/f- 



T^y^ 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

Tt^ 

... Copyright 
Shelf..E.5.1 



Chap. Copyright No. 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



REVISED AND ENLARGED. 




A CAREFULLY CLASSIFIED AND ALPHABETICALLY 
ARRANGED 

leposltoii of Useful iRfoiMtloii 

ON SUBJECTS THAT CONSTANTLY ARISE IN THE 
DAILY LIFE OF EVERY HOUSEKEEPER. 



j^ GurirDHi 

TO THE BEST AND EASIEST WAYS OF ACCOMPLISHING HOME 
WORK IN ITS VARIOUS DEPARTMENTS. 




BY MRS. M. W. ELLSWORTH, 



AUTHOR or 

THE 8UCCCSSFUL HOUSEKEEPER.' 



ELLSWORTH & BREY, 

DETROIT, MICH. 
1806. 



d 



i-/ 



:^ 



P^l? 



CorvKunir, 1896, 

HY 

Ellsworth & Brey. 



publish: KRS' PRKKACK. 



In 1882 we made our first venture in this line of publica- 
tion in The Successful Housekeeper, and its reception 
has been so cordial as to be a very agreeable surprise to us. 
Nearly one hundred thousand copies have been sold and there 
is still a good demand for it. 

Nothing earthly has yet reached that point where it can 
be marked " perfect," and, as we looked over this first book, 
we recognized many crudities and not a few mistakes of 
arrangement, and like all who have an interest in their work 
these defects anno3^ed us. 

Again, seven years have wrought wonderful changes and 
advances in every line of human industr}^, and home economy 
has changed with the other changing lines of progress. 
Many points, especially in the ceremonial, have become almost 
or quite obsolete, while other rules and observances have 
arisen to take their places. 

In a matter which is so closely connected with the well- 
being — the very being — of humanity as the cuisine, we 
should expect to find many improvements, and our search is 
"lot in vain. 

Believing the time propitious for chronicling these changes 
and advances, we have induced the author of The Suc- 
cessful Housekeeper to undertake the task. With what 
success her labors shall be crowned, we leave to the house- 
wives of our land to judge. 

We present The Queen of the Household to the pub- 
lic as a worthy successor to The Successful Housekeeper 
claiming for it that it is rigidly economical, thoroughly prac- 
tical, with short but plain directions, and nothing put into it 
simply to fill up. 



AUTHOR'S PRKFACK 



REVISED EDITION. 



Since the first edition of the Queen of the Household 
was pubHshed, changes have taken place, some so marked 
as, in the estimation of the writer, to deserve a place in the 
book. For these reasons a careful revision has been made, and 
where improvements were deemed possible, a change has 
been brought about by either substitution or addition. 

For example, the chafing dish has come to be a fixture 
in many homes, and as it becomes known its use increases. 
To meet this a section of recipes has been added to Chapter 
VI. An entire chapter has been added on the many uses of 
common articles in the household, such as salt, ammonia, 
borax, etc. This, it is hoped, will be found of great value to 
the housekeepers for daily use in the various departments of 
the home. 

It is hoped that the same kind reception will be given 
this edition as has marked the history of the book from the 

outset. 

THE AUTHOR. 
Detroit, Mich., June ist, 1896. 







^w^ 



wEioHTs AND is^e:asures. 



MEASURES OF WEIGHT. 

Avoirdupois. — 16 drams make i ounce; i6 ounces i 
pound; loo pounds i hundred-weight; 20 hundred-weight 
I ton. 

Troy. — 24 grains make i penny-weight; 20 penny- 
weights I ounce, 12 ounces i pound. 

Apothecaries. — 20 grains make i scruple; 3 scruples 
I dram; 8 drams i ounce; 12 ounces i pound. 

MEASURES OF CAPACITY. 

Dry Measure. — 2 pints make i quart; 8 quarts i peck; 
4 pecks I bushel. 

Liquid Measure. — 60 drops make i teaspoonful, 4 tea- 
spoonfuls I tablespoonful, i tablespoonful 1-6 gill, 4 gills i 
pint; 2 pints i quart; 4 quarts i gallon; 303^^ gallons i bar- 
rel; 63 gallons I hogshead. 

Apothecaries Fluid Measure.— 60 minims (w) make 
I dram (f. 3 ); 8 fluid drams i ounce (f. 5 ;; 16 fluid ounces 
I pint (O). 

MEASURES OF EXTENSION. 
Long Measure. — 12 inches make i foot; 3 feet i yard; 
53^ yards or i63^ feet i rod; 40 rods i furlong; 8 furlongs 
I mile. 

Surface or Square Measure.— 144 square inches i 
square foot; g square feet i square yard; 30^^^ square yards 
I square rod; 160 square rods i square acre (43,560 ft.); 
640 acres i square mile. 

Solid or Cubic Measure. — 1,728 cubic inches make 
I cubic foot; 27 cubic feet i cubic yard; 40 cubic feet of 
round timber i ton; 50 cubic feet of hewn timber i ton; 
16 cubic feet of wood i cord foot of wood; 8 cord feet (128 
cubic feet) i cord. 

Circular Measure.— 60 seconds (") make i minute ('); 
60 minutes i degree (°); 30 degrees i sign (s.); 90 degrees 
I quadrant, 4 quadrants or 360 degrees i circle (cir.). 

Miscellaneous. — 4 inches make i hand; 18 inches 
I cubit; 21.8 I sacred cubit; 3 feet i pace; 6 feet i fathom; 
120 fathoms i cable-length; 5280 feet i statute mile; 
6086.08 feet I geographical mile or "knot"; 3 miles i 
league; 60 geographical or 69 1-6 statute miles i degree. 

MEASURES OF TIME. 
Time Measure. — 60 seconds make i minute; 60 min- 
utes I hour; 24 hours i day; 7 days i week; 4 weeks i lunar 
month; 28, 29, 30, or 31 days i calendar month (30 days 

1 month in computing interest); 52 weeks and i day, or 12 
calendar months, i year; 365 days, 5 hours, 48 minutes, 
and 49 seconds i solar year; 100 solar years i century. 

MISCELLANEOUS TABLES. 

Numbers. — 12 units make i dozen; 12 dozen i gross; 
12 gross I great gross; 20 units i score. 

Paper. — 24 sheets make r quire, 20 quires i ream; 

2 reams 1 bundle; 5 bundles i bale. 



v> 




















in 
















< 










AY COIV 










2 

(I) 

D 
in 






Ul 

m 




















^T" 










rt 





















CONTENTS. 



CHAPTERS AND SUBDIVISIONS. 



I. Bread Making. 

II. Breakfast and Tea Cakes, Fritters, Gems, Griddle Cakes, Muffins, 

Mush, Puffs, Rolls, Rusks, Sandwiches, Toast, Waffles. 

III. Cake Making, Icings, Cookies, Jumbles and Snaps. 

IV. Confectionery. 

V. Creams and Custards. 

VI. Dainty Dishes and The Chafing Dish. 

VII. Desserts, Pies, Puddings, Pudding Sauces. 

VIII. Drinks. 

IX. Eggs and Omelets, Preserving Eggs. 

X. Fruits and Fruit Dishes, Fresh Fruits, Fruit Sauces, Canning Fruit, 
Jams and Jellies, Marmalades and Butters, Preserves, Spiced Fruits, 

XI. Fish and Shell Fish. 

XII. Game. 

XIII. Ice-Creams, Ices and Frozen Fruits. 

XIV. Mushrooms. 

XV. Meats, Cold Meat Cookery, Force Meats and Stuffings, Gravies, 

To Keep and Cure Meats. 

XVI. Poultry, Cold Poultry Dishes. 

XVIL Pickles, Sweet Pickles, Vinegar. 

XVIII. Salads, Salad Dressing. 

XIX. Sauces and Catsups. 

XX. Soups, Soups without Meat. 

XXI. Vegetables 

XXII. The Dining Room, /^ Year's Bill of Fare. 

XXIII. Folding Napkins. 

XXIV. Receptions and Entertainments, Luncheons and TeaSc 

XXV. Out-door Parties and Picnics. 

XXVI. Butter and Cheese. 

XXVII. Kitchen Recipes. 

XXVIII. Laundry Recipes. 

XXIX. Furniture and Wood-work. 

XXX. Toilet Recipes. 

XXXI Our Little Ones. 

XXXII. Food, Drinks and Nursing. 

XXXIII. Diseases and Home Remedies. 

XXXIV. Rats, Mice and Insects. 

XXXV. Care of Birds and Aquaria, The Canary Bird, The Mocking Bird, 
The Parrot, The Aquarium. 

XXXVI. Flower Culture. 

XXXVII. Miscellaneous Recipes. 

XXXVIII. Many Uses of Common Things, Chemical Nomenclature, Dictionary 
of Terms, 'Index. 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



Frontispiece, 
Bride's Cake, 
Christmas Cake, 
Wedding Cake, 
Floating Island, 
Croquettes of Rice, 
Christmas Plum Pudding^ 
Eggs a la Bonne Femme, 
Mushrooms, 
Sections of Calf, 

" " Bullock, 

" " Beef, 

" " Lamb, 

" " Sheep, 
Aitchbone of Beef, 
Brisket of Beef, 
Ribs of Beef, 
Sirloin of Beef, . 
Leg of Mutton, 
Leg of Mutton, (back). 
Roast Quarter of Lamb, 



PAGE. 

68 

. 75 

io6 
. 148 

190 
. 202 

230 
. 318 

325 
. 326 

326 

• 327 
327 

. 327 
327 

. 328 
318 

. 329 
330 

• 351 



Baked Ham, 
Roast Fowl, , . 

Roast Goose, 
Potato Pie, . 
Folding Napkins, (42), 
A Sylvan Glade, (facing), 
Camping Out, 
Rural Scene, 
Golden Sands, (facing). 
Rats, .... 
Stone Chat, (facing), 
Marsh Wrens, 
The Aquairium, 
Flower Culture, (facing), 
The Bay-Window, 
The Sitting-Room, 
An Arbor, 
Trellised Window, 
A Fernery, . . * 
A Wardian Case, 
The Chafing Dish, . 



PAGE. 

. 367 
391 

. 392 
506 

534, 541 
559 
562 

572 
611 
661 
665 
666 
674 
678 
679 
683 
687 
69G 
991 
69a 
151 



DIGESTION OF FOOD. 



KIND OF FOOD. 



Mode of Time of 
Preparat'n ! Digest'n 



Apples, sour, hard 

Apples, sweet 

Asparagus 

Beans, (pod) 

Beans with green corn. 

Beef 

Beefsteak 

Beefsteak 

Beef, salted 

Bass, fresh 

Beets, young 

Beets, old.. , 

Bread, corn 

Bread, wheat 

Butter 

Cabbage 

Cabbage and Vinegar. . 

Cabbage 

Cauliflower 

Cake, sponge 

Carrot, orange 

Cheese, old 

Chicken 

Codfish, dry and whole. 

Custard 

Duck, tame 

Duck, wild 

Dumpling, apple- 

Eggs, hard 

Eggs, soft 

Eggs 

Eggs 

Fowls, roasted or 

Gelatine 

Goose, wild 

Lamb 

Meat and vegetables. . . 

Milk .. 

Milk 

Mutton 

Mutton 

Onions 

Oysters 

Oysters . 

Parsnips 

Pig's feet 

Pork 

Pork 

Pork, raw or 

Pork 

Potatoes 

Potatoes 

Potatoes 

Rice 

Salmon, fresh 

Sausage 

Sausage 

Soup, vegetable 

Soup, chicken 

Soup, oyster or mutton 

Spinach 

Tapioca 

Tomatoes 

Tomatoes 

Trout, fresh, boiled or 

Turkey, boiled or 

Turnips 

Veal 

Venison Steak 



Raw 
Raw 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Roasted 
Broiled 
Fried 
Boiled 
Broiled 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Baked 
Baked 
Melted 
Raw 
Raw 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Baked 
Boiled 
Raw 

Fricassee 
Boiled 
Baked 
Roasted 
Roasted 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Fried 
Raw 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Roasted 
Boiled 
Hashed 
[Raw 
[Boiled 
Roast 
Broiled 
'Boiled 
Roasted 
Stewed 
Boiled 
Soused 
I Roast 
I Boiled 
I Fried 

Broiled 
! Boiled 
I Baked 

Roasted 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Fried 

Broiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Fresh 

Canned 

Fried 

Roasted 

Boiled 

Broiled 

Broiled 



H. M. 
2 50 

1 50 

2 30 

2 30 

3 45 
3 00 

3 00 

4 00 
4 15 
3 GO 

3 45 

4 GO 
3 15 
3 30 

3 30 
2 30 
2 00 

4 30 
2 30 

2 30 

3 15 
3 30 

3 45 
2 00 

2 45 

4 00 
4 50 

3 00 
3 30 
3 00 

3 30 
2 00 

4 00 
2 30 
2 30 
2 30 
2 30 
2 15 

2 00 

3 15 
3 00 
3 00 
3 15 
3 30 

3 00 

1 00 

5 15 

4 30 
4 15 
3 15 

3 30 

2 30 

2 30 
1 00 

1 45 

4 00 

3 30 

4 00 
3 00 
3 30 

2 30 
2 00 
2 30 
2 30 

1 30 

2 30 

3 30 

4 00 
1 35 



uo fm ' " ^ffg :' ?i ■■ MBua 



WtSWCSt!»gD3DSCdOWOHCa 



si c:?rE;wS2.E;!:::;<r « eT's 2. af»f°SS2— 5'T32.R^5"2<ys 
^ S^gd (T g a (D a S >_B " s^ ffi.S&S-S-'^ S-S-ffl- re3 o"® 



oa^aag.CSO'&gWc 



S^-TJ 



P O "-1 i-» S "o 






(Ta 
a oi 









toototD«DtDOoooa)OD-1~■!Coc«JO<o^s»o^o^s^^^s^o^o>-'l-'^-"-'^-' 



CnC0iCiai-'O0D00-}Jx:00lMOO~30l05i) 








3 


s 


n 




ft) 



I' 



O w 

c 



^ ft- 



K^ ^^d 



^ ^ 



CL en ? 



cr "^ 



ft 



•-^ -*. ?r 

o S 



<s> O 

5' ^ 

fD O 

^ 3 

O ^ 

c-h fl> 

fii «' 
•-t -' 

15 

-, fD 



n) Q ►*. 

Oi fD O 

3 r^ ^ 

3* <T ^. 

"^ < crq 

o ^. ^ 

3 5- £ 

m ft) - 



o 



fD p 

CLaq 



o 
o 

3 

fT 



:;. o 



fH &J 



fC fD 

3 a- 

rv fO 
'^Crq 

fD -J 

crq n 



W5 H^ h-H, 



D- fD r+ 

o 3 '^ 

3 2 5"! 

8 ^' 

3 fD 

p 3_ 

5' 5' 

fD 2 

CL 3 



^ 3 « III. 
s* o 3 ^ 



3 c fD 



r1- &) 

3- 3 
fD O- 



S^ ^ 3 



^ 3 

^ O 



o 

fD 



o 

c 

^ 5" 



Bt f^ 
5 aq f=5' 



> 

n 

H 

I— ( 

n 

> 
r 



H 
H 

n 

rd 
n 
o 
:z; 
o 



C/3 



fD S5 



3 f= £. 



o 
o 






i^ P fD 

P fD 

3 = 

g crq 

3 p 



P 



l^ P 
fD -J 



2 pj 
3. 3 



C/3 

^ O- CU 

fT "■ o 

en ^. fD 



TABL.K OK WKIGHTS AND 
NIEASURES. 



One cup, where not otherwise specified, indicates an ordinary 
coffee cup, and holds 3^ pint. 



Water, 


I 


cupful 


= H 


pint 


= 8 


ounces : 


= >^ lb. 


Vinegar, 




(< 




% 


<< 


8 


<< 


>^ lb. 


Milk, 




<< 




% 


<< 


8 


(< 


y2 lb. 


Molasses, 




<( 




y^ 


<< 


12 


(< 


3/<lb. 


Cream, 




(< 




% 


<< 


7 


<< 




ur, I level 


cup 


= 4 


ounces ; 


I heaped 


cup = 6 


ounces (always 



sifted flour). 

Sugar, I heaped cup (of crushed or granulated) = 8 ounces. 

Butter, I even cuj^ful, hard or melted, = 7 ounces. 

Suet, same (melted and solidified). 

Lard, same. 

Eggs, 10 eggs, average size, = i lb. 

Corn meal, i even cup = 4^ ounces. 

Ground coffee, i heaping cup = 4 ounces= y^ lb. 

Tea, I heaping cup = 2 ounces. 

Teaspoon = ^ tablespoon ; heaped = ^ ounce of flour, sugar, 
starch, rice, barley corn meal; = 5^ ounce ground coffee; = 1-8 
ounce tea. 

Tablespoon — i tablespoon holds ^ ounce water; heaped, it con- 
tains I ounce flour, sugar, rice, corn meal, sago, corn-starch, barley, 
Yi ounce ground coffee, and 5^ ounce tea. 

Seven tablespoons liquid = i gill; 14 tablespoons liquid = i cup. 

Basting-spoon — i basting-spoon = 4 tablespoons. 

A common-sized tumbler holds ^ pint. 

A common-sized wine-glass holds ^ gill. 

One generous pint of liquid or i pint of chopped meat packed 
solidly weighs i pound. 



CHAPTKR I. 



BREAD MAKING. 



Bread in some form or other comes to our table three times 
a day, for three hundred and sixty-five days in the year, or over a 
thousand times, the only article of food which enjoys this distinction. 
Ought it not to be as good as we can make it ? 

To make good bread, three things are absolutely essential : 

The best yeast, the best flour, the proper degrees of heat. 

Skill in the different processes is an aid in the attainment of ex- 
cellence, but it will not counteract the effect of inferior materials. I 
wish that this note could be sounded through all the kitchens in the 
land, and that some of the illusions which exist on this subject of 
bread-making might be destroyed. " I did not have any luck to- 
day with my bread," one will say, and such a person in some forcible 
way ought to be made to understand that in cookery ill-luck and 
ignorance are synonymous. 

What special recipe should be used is also of secondary consider- 
ation, provided it has some reliable god-mother to stand sponsor 
for it. Far be it from me to impale on the point of my pen my 
particular recipes, and, holding them up to the multitude, exclaim, 
" Lo, here !" and " Lo, there ! These only are good !" Such as I 
contribute in this article are given because they have answered my 
purpose perfectly, and are not intended in any way as criticisms on 
those of my neighbors. 

If the proper conditions for success in bread-making are main- 
tained, success will result as certain as it is that the day followeth 
the night. Three of the most important conditions I have named, 
giving yeast the predominance of importance because it forms 
the spirit, as it were, of the loaf, without which in its best estate, 
the other constituents, however good in themselves, would remain 
but a shapeless, inanimate mass. 
1 



BREAD MAKING. 



YEAST. 



As to what particular kind of yeast should be used, circumstances 
should determine, perhaps. If the bread-maker be young and 
inexperienced, or one to whom time is of moment, and if she lives 
near a grocer who can supply her with fresh cakes, she cannot do 
better than provide herself with compressed yeast. They should 
be kept in a cool, dry, dark place, unexposed to the air, as other- 
wise they will soon spoil. If they break easily, instead of pulling 
apart when pressure is applied, it may be concluded they are still 
fresh enough for use. One-half cake is equal to i cup yeast. 

The dry yeast, made with corn meal, and put up in packages 
keeps, with proper care, indefinitely. 

But, after giving each variety of yeast its due credit, I wish to 
state emphatically, that in my judgment, no more delicious bread is 
made by any of them than that made from potato yeast. There 
is a lightness, a quality about it not found in bread made from 
other methods. I keep myself supplied with this liquid yeast from 
one year's end to another, and am always able to make rolls, raised 
doughnuts, loaf cake, etc., at a moment's notice. There is little 
trouble in making it, and no risk. I send forth the recipe with hearty 
good wishes, hoping it may be of such service to others as it has 
been to me. 

Potato Yeast. — Sift 2 full tablespoons flour, 3 tablespoons white 
sugar and i tablespoon salt, into a large pan, or preserving kettle. 
Have your tea-kettle full of boiling water. Pare 4 potatoes, and as 
you pare them throw them into cold water to prevent discoloration. 
Grate these pared potatoes into the sifted materials, and mix quickly 
with a silver, or wooden spoon. Pour over it all 3 qaurts of the boil- 
ing water slowly, stirring all the time. The mixture should be of 
the consistency of thin starch ; if it is not quite thick enough, it 
may be cooked a little, caring to see that it does not burn. Strain, 
and when lukewarm, add i cake compressed yeast, dissolved in ^ 
cup tepid water. Do all this early in the day, that the yeast may 
have time to rise before night. Set the pan in a warm place uncov- 
ered, and when well-risen and frothy, beat occasionally and vigor- 
ously, to make it strong. Before retiring pour into quart cans, and 



BREAD MAKING. 3 

leave uncovered until morning. Then seal, and carry to cellar. Shake 
well before using. A cupful reserved in a pint can may be used in start- 
ing a fresh batch of yeast, but I always use the compressed yeast 
in preference. The yeast will keep until used up in winter, and 2 
weeks in summer, under cool conditions. Taste of it Avhen you 
wish to test its sweetness. If sour, do not use it. The yeast 
question being now settled satisfactorily, I hope, we come next to 
that of the flour, which is often a little more difficult to solve. 

FLOUR. 

There are many ways of testing flour, but the most expedient is 
to have your grocer furnish you with a small quantity of what he 
considers his best variety. If after a trial baking it proves satisfac- 
tory, you can order in larger amounts. Flour should be light, dry 
and elastic, and when pressed in the hand tightly and thrown back 
into the barrel, should not retain the form of the pressure. 

Of course it goes without saying, that the majority of wise house- 
keepers buy their flour by the barrel, as being both cheaper and more 
convenient than to buy in small quantities. In our family of 4 we 
use 2 barrels a year, and the last is always as good as the first. 
Whiteness in bread is always desirable, and while the whitest flour 
does not always presuppose the most nutritious, yet, other things 
being equal, the whitest brand is to be commended. I have eaten 
bread of the jaundiced type, which tasted better than it looked, 
but it was not a bread I should care to put on my own table. 

Having made, then, our potato yeast, and purchased our flour, 
both of which are supposed to be of the best quality, a little 
knowledge as to mixing the sponge, and the heat necessary to raise, 
and aftei'wards to bake it, will give us bread which will satisfy the 
most fastidious. For small families small bakings are economical, 
because with a little management you can always have fresh bread 
and none old, which will give trouble to dispose of. I always bake 3 
loaves at a time, i of graham or rye, and 2 of white, with only i 
sponge at night for both. If your husband is a New England man 
he will love to taste again the rye bread of his childhood's days, 
and if you have children you can educate them so that they will 



4 BREAD MAKING. 

love the brown loaf better than the white to the benefit of their 
growing bodies. Vary, then, your white bread fare by adding to it 
an occasional loaf of rye or graham. 

DIRECTIONS EOR SPONGE. 

Rinse out your bread bowl with hot water just before your hour 
of retiring for the night. Sift into the bowl lyi quart flour, which 
has been warmed. Stir this into i ]4 pints of milk scalded and cooled, 
or warm water, and beat well. Add i cup potato yeast, or }< cake 
yeast dissolved in yi cup tepid water. Beat all thoroughly, and 
add more flour, if necessaay to make it about like pancake batter. 
Set in a temperature of 60 degrees over night. In the morning 
take out ^ of the sponge for a graham or rye loaf, and add to it Yz 
ceaspoon of salt, i tablespoon sugar, and graham or rye flour mixed 
in not quite as thick as you can stir it. Pour into a baking pan, 
and when well-risen, bake in a moderate oven. The oven heat should 
be less than for white loaves. It will be baked before the latter 
are ready to go into the oven. The remainder of the sponge will 
make two white loaves. Add to this i teaspoon salt, i tablespoon 
sugar, Yz tablespoon lard, and flour enough to enable you to knead 
the dough thoroughly. A few words now about kneading. 

KNEADING. 

It is a favorite theory with many that kneading alone makes the 
bread fine grained, but it is not so. The fineness of the grain 
depends almost wholly upon the liveliness of the yeast, and the 
quantity used. Kneading makes the bread EVEN grained, regular 
as to its pores, and spongy in character, and should be well attended 
to to ensure this result. Both kneadings should be equally thorough, 
and done with the knuckles and fists, in a way which will mean 
business. After the first kneading, set away in a warm place free 
from drafts to rise, which ought to be in 2 or 3 hours. When suffi- 
ciently light, knead again very thoroughly, and mould into loaves. 
Caution as to moulding is enjoined. Let the loaves be shapely, 
with no uneven cracks on the under side when done to betray care- 
lessness. Have them fit into the pans evenly, so that when baked 



BREAD MAKING. 5 

they shall not resemble inclined planes, or miniature toboggan 
chutes, one end of which shall seem to have risen at the expense of 
the other. Gash the loaves across on top 2 or 3 times, or prick with 
a fork. 

BAKING. 

When your loaves have risen after putting in the pans, to twice 
their size, they are ready for the oven, which should not be so hot 
but that you can hold your hand in it while you count 30. The fire 
should have been attended to so that it will give a steady heat for 
45 minutes, the time necessary to bake ordinary sized loaves. Baking 
is at best a most delicate operation, and requires a cook's whole 
attention. 

On baking day arrange it so that that shall be your chief work 
until the bread is out of the oven. Carelessness as to the manage- 
ment of oven will ruin the best loaf that can be made. Practice in 
this as in anything will alone bring perfection. Rules will help, 
but the cook must gain experience herself. For the first 20 min- 
utes bread should rise in the oven but not brown. Change to a less 
hot place in the oven if you find the heat too great, or cover loaves 
with paper, or the oven door may be left open if the baking is nearly 
done. When baked the bread should not have a suspicion of a 
brown shade about it, but only a delicate cafe mi lait color. Under 
those conditions there will be no crusts to be thrown away, or 
to set the children's teeth on edge. After the bread has been 
five minutes out of the oven, rub the tops and sides with a little but- 
ter, to soften it and give a glossy surface. I much prefer the 
round, small sized pans for baking bread. I have a, fancy that bread 
baked in them is much better than that baked in the long, oblong 
pans. If loaves are ever burned apply the grater, and rub off the 
burned portion, and envelope in wet napkin. Keep bread in a tin 
box or earthen jar covered with towel, away from, the air. If 
exposed it dries rapidly, and loses its flavor. 

Some housekeepers may not know that bread dough will keep 
for some time without spoiling, in an ice chest, or in a temperature 
which will arrest fermentation. Such an arrangement is a conven- 



5 BREAD MAKING. 

ience where much company is entertained, and raised bread stuffs 
are desired at short notice. 

A GOOD RELIABLE YEAST. 

Steep slowly, in a porcelain or bright tin kettle, I large handful 
hops, tied in a cloth ; boil 6 large potatoes, sliced thin, in 2 quarts 
water; when done very soft, mash till smooth and creamy. Have 
ready i pint flour, wet and rubbed to a smooth paste ; pour into 
this the potato water boiling hot, stirring smoothly ; let it boil a 
few minutes, stirring all the time , add the hop water and potatoes, 
2 tablespoons salt, and I cup white sugar ; stir thoroughly and set 
away to cool. When milk warm, stir in i cup yeast ; let it rise in 
a warm place I2 hours ; put it into an air-tight vessel, previously well 
scalded, and set in the cellar. This will keep from 4 to 6 weeks. 
Always make new yeast before the old is gone, in order to have some 
to start with. Be very particular with every new batch of yeast, 
to have the vessel in which it is kept well cleaned, and scalded 
with hot saleratus water. Much depends upon keeping this sweet 
and clean. 

ANOTHER GOOD YEAST. 

Boil 2 potatoes with a good handful of hops, tied in a bag ; mash 
the potatoes when done, in the yeast dish, and add 2 teacups flour, 
and scald with the potato water; when cool, add a yeast cake 
soaked in warm water. Dry hop yeast can always be found at 
grocery stores. 

DRY HOP YEAST. 

Mix 3^/^ ounces hops, 15 quarts hot water, and 3^ pounds rye 
flour ; when cooled to lukewarm add )^ pint beer yeast ; let it fer- 
ment. Next day add 7^ pounds corn or barley meal, knead into a 
stiff dough, and roll to about ]/> inch thick. Divide into cakes 
and dry completely in a warm room, or the sun, turning frequently. 
Can be kept in well closed pots an indefinite length of time. 



BREAD MAKING. 



MILK SPONGE BREAD. 



Early in the evening, scald 2 tablespoons corn meal, a pinch of 
salt and I of sugar, with milk enough to make a mush ; then set in a 
warm place till morning ; then scald i teaspoon sugar, i of salt, and 
y^ as much soda with i pint boihng water ; then add cold water 
till lukewarm, and thicken to a thick batter with flour, then add 
the mush made the night before and stir briskly for a minute or 
two. Put in a close vessel in a kettle of warm water, not too hot. 
When light, mix stiff, add a little shortening, and mould into loaves. 
•It will soon rise and will not require as long to bake as yeast bread 
— 25 to 30 minutes in a good oven. Great care is required to keep 
the sponge of a uniform heat (the water should be about as warm 
as the hand will bear). The fine patent process flour is not as 
good as a little coarser grade for this kind of bread. All dishes 
used in making should be perfectly clean and sweet, scalding them 
out with saleratus or lime water. 

SALT RISING BREAD. 

In the morning take a quart dish and scald it out, then put in I 
pint warm water ; put in i tablespoon salt and a little pinch soda. 
2 or 3 tablespoons corn meal, and flour enough to make a thick bat- 
ter. Stir well, and set the dish in a kettle of warm water, and 
keep at the same temperature (just so you can bear your hand 
in it). If water rises on the top, stir in briskly i or 2 tablespoons 
flour and put back into the kettle. If the flour is good the empty- 
ings will be light within 3 or 4 hours ; then take flour enough in a 
bread pan to make 3 or 4 loaves of bread, make a hole in the cen- 
ter, put in the emptyings, and fill the same dish with warm water ; 
add a little salt, stir it in with a spoon, mix a thick sponge and cover 
it with some of the flour, and set it in a warm place to rise. When 
light, mould it into loaves and set to rise again (it does not require 
as much kneading as yeast bread). Bake from )^ to ^ of an hour. 
Railroad emptyings are made in the same way, of middlings instead 
of flour. 



BREAD MAKING. 



BROWN BREAD. 



Take 2 quarts corn meal ; scald with i quart boiling milk or 
water ; when cool add l quart Graham flour, i large spoonful salt, 
I cup brown sugar or best molasses, i cup home-made yeast, i cup 
flour. Mix with warm water as stiff as can easily be stirred ; put 
in deep basins; steam 2 hours and bake i. Before baking baste 
with a few spoons sweet cream or milk ; this makes a soft, tender 
crust. 

Biscuit is made from the same dough as the bread, rolled out 
and spread with a small quantity of lard, which must be very fresh 
and sweet. Double the dough together, roll and spread again 
three times ; then cut in small biscuits ; place on buttered tins ; let 
stand y^ hour; bake 15 minutes until a very light brown. Cover 
with a cloth a few minutes and slip off on the same until ready for 
use. All bread, biscuit, loaf cake or doughnuts made from yeast 
should rise after being mixed before being baked ; if put into the 
oven or fried directly they are never light, as the dough has no 
chance to recover its elasticity. 

BROWN BREAD, NO. 2. 

One pint each Indian meal and rye meal, ^ pint wheat flour, 
jX cup m.olasses, i tablespoon salt, 7^ cup yeast and i pint hot 
water ; mix, let it rise, steam 3 or 4 hours and brown the top a little 
in the oven. 

BROWN BREAD, NO. 3. 

One cup corn meal, i cup flour, ^ cup molasses, ^ teaspoon soda, 
little salt. Water enough to make medium batter which will be 
enough to half fill 2 well greased baking powder (pound) cans, put 
on cover, steam 2 hours, set in oven ^ hour, let stand a few min- 
utes before taking off cover (which must be greased as well as can), 
turn bottom side up and they will slide out easily ; and unless I 
am mistaken you will have some loaves of brown bread you will 
be proud of, as well as easily made. 



BREAD MAKING. 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 



Flour i^ pint. I pint corn meal, ^ pint rye flour; i teaspoon 
salt, I tablespoon brown sugar, 2 teaspoons baking powder, J^ pint 
water ; sift flour, corn meal, rye flour, sugar, salt and baking pow- 
der together thoroughly ; peel, wash, and well boil 2 mealy potatoes : 
rub them through the sieve, diluting with water. When this 
is quite cold use it to mix the flour, etc.. into a batter like cake; 
pour it into a well-greased mold, having a cover (a tin pail will do), 
place it in a kettle or sauce pan half full of boiling water, when the 
loaf may steam or simmer i hour; then take off the cover and 
bake in the oven yi hour. 

CORN BREAD. 

One pint corn meal, i pint flour, i pint buttermilk, i teacup 
molasses, i teaspoon soda, i teaspoon salt. Bake just 2 hours. 

CORN BREAD, NO. 2. 

One pint buttermilk, 2 eggs, i pint corn meal, 2 tablespoons melted 
butter, a little salt and i teaspoon soda. 

CORN BREAD, NO. 3. 

Mix well with 2 quarts corn meal, 3 pints warm water, i table- 
spoon sugar, I teaspoon salt, and a large tablespoon hop or brewer's 
yeast. Set in a warm place about 5 hours until it rises well; then 
add about 3,^ pint wheat flour and ^ pint warm water, and let 
it stand to rise again, about i^ hours. Pour into a pan well greased 
with butter. Let it stand to rise a few minutes, and bake in a mod- 
erately hot oven nearly i ^ hours. It is good hot or cold. Corn 
bread made essentially after this recipe carried off the prize among 
a hundred exhibitors, on the score of quality and economy. 

CORN BREAD, NO 4. 

Two tablespoons sugar, i tablespoon butter, 2 eggs, stir all 
together ; add i cup milk, 3 teaspoons baking powder, ^^ cup corn 
meal, flour enough to make quite stiff. Steam or bake until done. 



lO BREAD MAKING. 

FAMOUS SOUTHERN CORN BREAD. 

Take i egg, i teaspoon salt, and i of soda (if the milk is 
very sour it will take more soda), and i ^ pints buttermilk ; then 
put in white corn meal enough to make a nice tolerably thick batter. 
It is very nice baked in a bread pan, but we like it best baked in gem 
irons, or mufifin irons, as some people call them. Whatever it is 
baked in must be well greased and smoking hot when the batter is 
put in. Serve while hot. Corn bread never was intended to be 
eaten cold. 

grandmother's INDIAN BREAD. 

Three cups milk, 3 cups corn meal, i cup flour, j4 cup molasses, 
I teaspoon soda, i teaspoon salt. Put into a buttered bake dish, 
and set in a steamer and steam 3 hours. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

To a small bowl of bread sponge put i quart milk and water, ^ 
of each ; i large spoon molasses and i of sugar, i teaspoon soda, i 
tablespoon salt. Mix this together and stiffen with Graham flour 
a little stiffer than cake ; let rise like other loaves and bake. 

GRAHAM BREAD, NO. 2. 

Take i^ cups water or milk and a small piece butter or lard • 
mix quite thick with Graham flour or Arlington wheat meal, which 
is better ; add j4 cup good yeast and set to rise over night. In 
the morning dissolve ^ teaspoon soda in a little water, and add }4 
cup molasses ; stir this into the bread, mix quite soft and put in 
baking tin to rise. Bake thoroughly. A nice rye and wheat loaf 
may be made in the same way, using i^ cups sifted rye and the 
rest wheat flour. If you wish a light colored loaf use only i cup of 
rye and sweeten with sugar. 

BAKING POWDER GRAHAM BREAD. 

One and one-half pints Graham flour, j4 pint flour, i tablespoon 
sugar, I teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder; mix with i}4 



BREAD MAKING. II 

pints milk, or equal parts of milk and water. Sift together Graham, 
flour, sugar, salt and baking powder ; add the milk, or milk and 
water, mix rapidly into a soft dough, put into a greased tin, bake 
in rather hot oven for 40 minutes. Protect the loaf with paper the 
first 15 minutes. 

QUICK GRAHAM BREAD. 

One and one-half pints sour milk, ^ cup cooking molasses, ^ 
teaspoon salt, 2 even teaspoons saleratus dissolved in a little hot 
water, and as much Graham flour as can be stirred in evenly with a 
spoon. Put into a well-greased pan, and bake immediately. It will 
require from i}4 to 2 hours to bake. 

HOYLETON BREAD. 

Five cups Indian meal, 7 cups wheat flour, 2 cups rye meal, 4 
cups buttermilk, 2 cups sweet milk, ^ cup molasses, 2 teaspoons 
salt, 2 teaspoons soda. Put it in a 3-quart pail that has a cover ; let 
it stand near the fire 30 minutes with the cover off to rise, then put 
on cover and bake or steam 4 hours. 

NORWEGIAN BREAD, FOR DYSPEPTICS. 

One pint barley meal, }4 pint Graham, y^ pint flour, I teaspoon 
salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder, i pint milk. Sift together barley 
meal, Graham, flour, salt and powder. Mix into a firm batter with 
the milk, pour into a greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven 40 
minutes ; cover with a greased paper the first 20 minutes. 

OAT MEAL BREAD. 

One-half pint oat meal, i}4 pints flour, ^ teaspoon salt, 3 tea- 
spoons baking powder, ^ pint milk; boil the oat meal in i^ pints 
.salted water for i hour. Then dilute it with the milk. Set aside 
to get perfectly cold. Sift together flour, salt, powder, and, when 
the oat meal preparation is cold, place it in a bread bowl ; add to 
it the flour, etc.; mix smoothly together, pour from the bowl into 
the greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven ^rj^ of an hour ; pro- 
tect the loaf with paper the first 20 minutes. 



12 BREAD MAKING. 



RYE BREAD. 



Make a sponge as for wheat bread, and let it rise overnight ; then 
add ^ cup molasses, i teaspoon salt, i quart milk and water — 
equal parts — and mix with rye flour, not as stiff as wheat bread, 
and bake. 

RYE AND INDIAN BREAD. 

Scald 2 quarts Indian meal by pouring over it just boiling water 
enough to. wet it ; add i quart rye meal or flour, y^. teacup molasses, 
2 teaspoons salt, i of soda, i cup yeast ; make as thick as can be 
stirred with a spoon, mixing with warm water, and let rise over night ; 
put in a bake tin, let stand ^ hour, and bake from 4 to 6 hours. 

RYE BREAD WITH BAKING POWDER. 

One pint rye flour, y^ pint corn meal, ^ pint flour, i teaspoon 
sugar, I teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder, i tablespoon 
lard, nearly i pint milk. Sift together rye flour, corn meal, flour, 
sugar, salt and powder ; rub in the lard cold ; add the milk and mix 
into a smooth batter, as for cake ; pour into a well-greased tin, and 
bake in a moderate oven y^ hour ; protect with a paper the first 
quarter. 

RICE BREAD. 

Boil I cup rice in i pint water ; when tender, add ^ pint milk ; 
when cold, add i^ pints flour sifted, with i teaspoon sugar, i/^ 
teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder ; mix together smoothly, 
pour into greased tin, and bake 40 minutes. 



CHAPXKR II. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



Begin with your flour, sifting it with baking powder, if used, then 
mixing in the shortening until the 2 substances become one ; then 
add the wetting (as httle as will do) and, handling lightly, with no 
kneading, roll out and place on the tins as quickly as possible. 

To make biscuits a nice color, wet the top with warm water just 
before placing in the oven. To glaze, brush lightly with milk and 
sugar, -or the well-beaten yolk of an Qgg sweetened, and a little milk 
added. 

All biscuit should be pricked with a fork before putting them in 
the oven. 

LIGHT BISCUIT. 

In kneading bread, set aside a small loaf for biscuits. Into this 
work I heaping tablespoon lard and butter mixed, and i teaspoon 
sugar. The more it is worked the whiter it will be. As it rises, 
mould it down twice before making into buscuit. Roll out and 
cut with a biscuit cutter. The dough should be quite soft. 

BUTTER BISCUIT. 

Sift I quart flour into a pan, and make a hollow in the center 
large enough to admit i pint milk and i coffee cup yeast ; mix into 
a sponge, set it to rise ; in the morning add i pound melted butter, 
and knead as much flour as will, with another pint of warm milk 
or water, make a soft dough ; Cut out the biscuit and put in pans 
to rise ; when sufficiently light, bake in a well heated oven. 

DROP BISCUIT. 

Three cups sifted flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 2 tablespoons 
lard, a little salt. Mix baking powder and salt into the flour, add 

13 



14 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

the lard, and cold Water enough to make a batter or dough as stiff 
as can be stirred with a spoon, and drop by spoonfuls on greased 
tins, or into gem pans. This is a nice way to make biscuit for tea 
^vhen one does not care to put the hands into the dough, or have the 
muss of the kneading board. 

DIXIE BISCUIT. 

Three pints flour, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons lard, i small cup yeast, I 
cup milk ; mix at 1 1 o'clock, roll out at 4 o'clock, and cut with 2 
sizes of cutters, put the smaller ones on top ; let rise until supper. 
Bake 20 minutes. 

SODA BISCUIT. 

One quart sifted flour, i even teaspoon soda dissolved in I pint 

buttermilk, or sour milk, i heaping tablespoon lard, and a pinch of 

salt. Bake in an oven — not too hot — after raising 15 or 20 minutes. 

If sour cream is to be had, use it instead of milk, leaving out the 

shortening. 

SQUASH BISCUIT. 

One pint strained squash, 3^ cup yeast, I small cup sugar, and 
a piece of butter the size of an egg. Beat the squash, butter and 
sugar thoroughly, add yeast and beat again, add flour till quite stiff 
to stir with a spoon, let it stand over night ; in the morning put 
in gem pans, or make into biscuit, let rise and bake. These should 
be eaten while hot. 

SQUASH CAKES. 

One pint sifted flour (generous), i cup dry squash, 2 tablespoons 
sugar, I egg, butter size of a walnut, little salt, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder. Mix with sweet milk to consistency of muf^ns, bake in 
mufifin tins 20 minutes. 

Sift flour, sugar, salt and powder together, rub in butter, beat 
up squash and egg with little milk, and turn into flour, add more 
milk as required. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 1 5 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

To begin with, have a hot oven ; have the flour sifted and roll 
dough as soft as it can be handled. Then more baking powder 
is needed than is usually given. For each teacup flour use a 
teaspoon powder ; butter the size of a hen's egg is sufficient for 
a quart of flour ; after rubbing powder and butter into the flour, 
mix soft with cold water or milk, stirring with a spoon ; roll lightly 
and bake at once. 

CREAM OF TARTAR BISCUIT. 

One quart flour, i tablespoon butter, i tablespoon lard, ^ tea- 
?poor^ salt, I teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar. Sift the 
flour and cream of tartar together, rub the butter and lard very 
thoroughly through it ; dissolve the soda in i pint milk or water (if 
water, use more shortening) ; mix all together. Roll out, adding as 
little flour as possible; cut with a biscuit cutter, and bake immed- 
iately in a quick oven. 

ENGLISH BISCUIT. 

One and one-half pints flour, i coffee-cup corn-starch, 3 table- 
spoons sugar, a large pinch salt, 2 large teaspoons baking powder, 3 
tablespoons lard, i egg, }4 pint milk, ^ cup currants, i tablespoon 
coriander seed (if desired). Sift together flour, corn-starch, sugar, 
salt and baking powder ; rub in the lard cold ; add the eggs beaten, 
milk, currants well cleaned ; mix into a smooth dough soft enough 
to handle, flour the board, turn out the dough, roll it out }4 
inch thick, cut out with a round cutter, lay them on a greased 
baking-tin, and bake in a rather hot oven 20 minutes ; rub over 
with a little butter on a clean piece of linen when taken from the 
oven. 

GRAHAM BISCUIT. 

Take 3 cups Graham flour, i cup wheat flour, 2 large teaspoons 
baking powder, well mixed with the flour, rub in 2 large table- 
spoons butter, a little salt, j4 cup sugar, i beaten egg, and enough 



1 6 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

milk (cold) to make a soft dough, roll out, cut with biscuit cutter, 
and bake immediately. 

COCOANUT BISCUIT. 

Remove the shell and dark skin from a fresh cocoanut and grate 
it. Simmer it slowly for y^ hour in i quart milk, and then 
squeeze all the milk from the nut in a strong towel. Add to the 
milk I cake compressed yeast, or i gill liquid yeast, a teaspoon salt, 
and flour enough to make a soft dough ; let it rise until hght, and 
then knead and bake in form of small loaves or biscuits. 

BALTIMORE APPLE-BREAD. 

Prepare a dough exactly as if for rusks. When it is very light, 
roll it about yi inch thick. Spread stewed apples over half of the 
dough and fold over the remaining half. Put in a pan to rise. Then 
bake in a moderate oven. Have some thinly sliced apples stewed, 
and when the bread is baked lay them all over the top. Sprinkle 
with sugar, small bits of butter and cinnamon. Put back in the oven 
long enough for the sugar to form a coating. Slice thin for tea. 

POTATO BUNS. 

Boil 4 good sized potatoes, mash and sift through a sieve ; add 
I i/<pints flour, 2 tablespoons baking powder, i pint milk or cream. 
Form in small cakes and bake in a greased tin 20 minutes. 

BUNS. 

Break i egg into a cup and fill the cup with milk ; mix with 
Yz cup yeast, ^ cup butter, i cup sugar, enough flour to make 
a soft dough ; flavor with nutmeg ; let rise till very light, then mold 
into biscuits with a few currants ; let rise the second time and bake, 
and when nearly done glaze with a little molasses and milk. 

BUNS, NO. 2. 

Take i quart flour, mix with it Y^ teaspoon salt, 3 teaspoons 
baking powder ; mix thoroughly. Then rub in J^^ cup butter, 4 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. I^ 

eggs, I pint milk. Pour the batter into gem-pans and bake in a 
quick oven. 

BUNS, NO. 3. 

One cup butter, i cup sugar, i^ cup yeast, ^ pint milk ; make 
stiff with flour and mold into biscuits ; when light, bake. 

CORN CAKES. 

Three cups corn meal, i cup Graham flour, 2 teaspoons cream 
yeast powder, sifted together ; i cup cream and ^ cup milk, i egg 
well beaten ; stir together well and quickly, heat your gem-irons hot, 
butter and fill, bake with a brisk heat. Gem-tins or forms do not 
need to be heated before filling, they may be oiled and filled on the 
table, and put into a quick oven. 

CORN CAKES, NO. 2. 

Six tablespoons corn meal, 3 tablespoons flour, 3 tablespoons 
sugar, I cup sour milk, i egg, ^ teaspoon soda. Salt to taste. 

EASTER BUNS. 

Three cups sweet milk, i cup yeast ; flour to make thick batter. 
Set this as a sponge over night. In the morning add i cup sugar, 
j4 cup butter, melted, }4 nutmeg, i saltspoon salt. Flour enough to 
roll out like biscuit. Knead well and set to rise 5 hours. Roll }4 
inch thick, cut into round cakes, and lay in rows in a buttered bak- 
ing-pan. When they have stood }i hour, make a cross upon each 
with a knife, and put instantly into the oven. Bake to a light brown, 
and brush over with a feather or a soft bit of rag, dipped in the 
white of an egg, beaten up stiff with white sugar. These are the 
** hot cross-buns " of the " London cries." 

HOMINY CAKES. 

Cold hominy left from breakfast one morning may be utilized the 
next in cakes. Mix with cold hominy an equal amount of wheat 
flour until perfectly smooth ; add i teaspoon salt, and thin off with 
buttermilk, into part of which i teaspoon soda has been dissolved ; 



1 8 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

when of the consistency of corn cakes, add i dessertspoon melted 
butter, and bake as usual. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

Two eggs, 3 cups buttermilk or sour milk, ^ cup lard, ^^ cup 
sugar, I cup flour, i teaspoon saleratus, yi teaspoon salt, 3 cups 
Indian meal. - 

RICH JOHNNY CAKE. 

One cup white corn meal, i cup flour, ^ cup white sugar, i cup 
cream, and i egg, or i cup milk and 2 eggs, i teaspoon soda, dis- 
solved in hot water ; 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, sifted in the flour ; 
I saltspoon salt. 

NEWPORT BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Three eggs, 3 spoons sugar, i ^ pints milk, ^ cup butter, 3 tea- 
spoons baking powder. Stir stiff with flour and bake in loaves, like 
cakes. 

NORTHUMBRIAN CAKES. 

These are such delicious little dainties that the only danger in 
making them is, that having once tasted them, we want to indulge 
in the luxury too often. Put i pound finest flour into a bowl with 
Yi teaspoon salt ; rub into this until perfectly smooth ^ pound 
fresh butter, then add ^ pound currants, nicely picked and cleaned, 
and I heaped teaspoon baking powder. Mix these ingredients well, 
then form them into a light paste with w'ater, milk and water, or 
better still, all milk. Of course, if milk is used the cakes will be 
whiter and taste richer than if mixed with water. Have the paste 
board nice and clean with a little flour sprinkled over; turn out the 
paste on this and gently knead it with the hand for a minute, but 
the less the paste is handled the better. Flour the rolling-pin and 
roll out the paste to the thickness of ^ inch. It is now ready to 
be baked on the girdle — or griddle, as it is called in America — and 
either be cooked as one large cake, or several small ones. The latter 
method is the best as the large cakes are so difficult to turn without 
breaking. The small ones are stamped out with a tin cutter, or fail- 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



19 



ing this the top of a tumbler. To prevent the paste sticking dip 
the cutter every now and again into flour. Have the griddle placed 
over a low clear fire, or upon a moderately hot stove, and when 
quite hot — not before — put on the cakes. About 15 minutes will 
be required for baking the cakes thoroughly. Avoid above all 
things baking them too quickly, as a cake not sufficiently done in 
the centre is most indigestible, as well as disagreeable. When the 
under side of the cakes is nicely colored, turn them over and 
brown the other side the same. As soon as they are removed from 
the griddle slit them open, butter liberally, and arrange them neatly 
on a hot plate. These cakes are very delightful when eaten cold, but 
of course they taste richer when hot, so we generally bake them just 
when wanted. 

POTATO DROP CAKES. 

To 2 cups mashed potato add 2 cups warm milk, i tablespoon 
melted butter, 2 beaten eggs, }^ cup prepared flour, and y^ tea- 
spoon salt. Beat the whole hard and drop in great spoonfuls on a 
greased griddle. Serve very hot as soon as they are baked. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Take cold mashed potatoes, mix 2 beaten eggs with them, 
season if necessary, flour the hands and mix into oblong cakes. Fry 
in beef drippings and butter. Turn carefully wdien browned on the 
under side. 

POTATO CAKES, No. 2. 

Take i quart mashed potatoes, add i tablespoon lard or butter, 
enough flour to roll stiff, i teaspoon baking powder ; knead stiff, 
roll out about ^ inch thick, and cut as for biscuit, bake in quick 
oven to light brown ; cut open, spread with butter and eat warm. 

PUFF CAKES. 

Take i pint flour and i level teaspoon salt, sift into a bowl 
and mix gradually with fresh sweet milk to the consistency of 
cream. - It will require i pint milk, perhaps more, as flour varies ia 



20 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

the amount of fluid necessary to mix it to a given consistency, the 
best flour always requiring the most. The inexorable rule for these 
muffins is that the batter must be thin. Break 3 eggs into a bowl 
and beat light with an egg whip, add these to the batter just 
before you put it to bake. With nice lard, grease well 3 sets of gem- 
pans, fill them almost level full and set them in a quick oven. The 
muffins will be done in 15 minutes, and should be buttered and 
eaten immediately. Never put lard in them or they will not be fit 
to eat. If made according to these directions they will demonstrate 
the appropriateness of their name by pufifing up to an astonishing 
height, and will be as light as the time-honored feather. 

POCKET BOOKS. 

One quart warm water or milk, 2 eggs, 3 teaspoons sugar, i cup 
yeast, 4 tablespoons melted butter ; add flour to make a sponge, and 
set to rise ; when it is risen work it over and set to rise again ; when 
light put in a piece of soda the size of a bean ; roll out, spread the 
surface with butter, cut in squares and double over to form a pocket 
book shape ; put in a pan and let stand till light, then bake. 

PROVERBS. 

One cup rich milk, i egg, 2 cups flour, i teaspoon baking powder, 
a little salt ; beat together thoroughly, fill buttered cups half full and 
bake in a hot oven. 

PUFFETS. 

One quart flour, i pint milk, 2 eggs beaten light, butter size of 
an Ggg, 3 tablespoons sugar, 3 teaspoons baking powder; bake 
quickly. 

ROSETTES. 

To 3 eggs, the yolks beaten very light, add i quart milk, a 
piece of butter the size of an egg cut in little pieces into the milk 
and eggs, 3 coffee-cups flour, a little salt, 3 teaspoons baking 
powder, and lastly the whites of the eggs beaten very light and 
stirred quickly into the mixture. Bake in a quick oven. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 21 

POP OVERS. 

Two cups milk, 2 cups sifted flour, i heaping teaspoon bak- 
ing powder, butter size of a walnut, 2 well-beaten eggs, i tablespoon 
sugar, a little salt. Bake in hot gem-pans 20 minutes. 

RYE DROP CAKES. 

Two cups sour milk, i well-beaten egg, i teaspoon soda dissolved 
in boiling water, and enough rye meal to make a batter. Mix 
together the milk, meal and egg, add the soda, and beat thoroughly ; 
bake immediately on a hot griddle or in gem pans. 

SCONES. 

Thoroughly mix i quart sifted flour, 2 heaping teaspoons bak- 
ing powder ; then rub into ^4^ pound butter and enough milk 
to make a smooth paste ; roll out the paste to }( inch thick and cut 
it into triangular pieces, each side of which is about 4 inches long ; 
put them into a greased tin and bake immediately in a very hot 
oven ; when half done brush them over with sweet milk. 

SCOTCH SCONES. 

Sift together i quart flour, i teaspoon sugar, ^ teaspoon salt, 2 
heaping teaspoons baking powder ; rub in i large tablespoon lard 
cold ; add 2 beaten eggs and nearly j4 pint milk; mix into a smooth 
dough, knead up quickly and roll out to i^ inch thick, cut out 
with a knife into squares larger than soda crackers, fold each in half 
to form three-cornered pieces, bake on a hot griddle 8 or 10 
minutes ; brown on each side. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Sift together i quart flour, i teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder ; rub in ^ cup butter cold ; add 4 beaten eggs, ^ pint milk ; 
mix int i a firm batter like cup cake, pour into 2 round cake-tins, and 
bake 2 minutes in a pretty hot oven. 



22 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

SALLY LUNN, NO. 2. 

Two eggs well beaten, a piece of butter the size of an egg melted, I 
teaspoon salt, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 2 tablespoons sugar. 2 cups 
milk, flour enough to make a stiff batter ; 3 tablespoons yeast 
instead of baking powder, and let rise for 8 hours, are preferred by 
those who dislike the baking powder. Sugar can be omitted if not 
liked. 

SLY CAKE. 

Make about a pound of rich pastry, divide into 2, and roll each 
piece out j^ inch thick. Cut them a neat square shape, and spread 
over one half a thin layer composed of currants, nicely picked and 
cleaned, finely chopped lemon peel, and a seasoning of mixed spice ; 
a little sugar is sometimes added as well. Cover with the other 
half of the pastry, moisten the edges, press them firmly together, 
and mark the cake in small squares where it has afterwards to be 
cut. Bake it on a buttered cake-tin — or baking-tin — in a well heated 
oven for }4 or 3/^ of an hour, according to the heat of the oven. 
When sufficiently cooked, divide it into squares, dust fine white 
sugar over the top, and serve either hot or cold. 

TEA CAKE. 

One cup sugar, i tablespoon butter, 3 eggs ; beat well together, 
then add i cup milk (you may use part water), and i quart 
sifted flour, into which you have mixed i spoon cream of tartar 
and ^/2 teaspoon soda ; bake in a quick oven. It is improved by 
sprinkling sugar over the top before baking. This will make two 
cakes, which are best when eaten warm. 

TEA CAKE, NO. 2. 

Two eggs and 2 tablespoons sugar beaten together; 3 cups flour, 
I cup milk, I teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, or their 
equivalent of baking powder; add last 2 tablespoons melted butter; 
bake ^ hour in square tins. To be eaten hot with butter. Very 
nice. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 2$ 

YORKSHIRE TEA CAKE. 

Some persons who do not feel very confident about their powers 
of digestion prefer these to griddle cakes. They are not quite so 
rich, and can therefore be eaten with greater freedom, and certainly 
as a dainty, and at the same time, a wholesome addition to the tea 
table, they are difficult to surpass. One advantage which these tea 
cakes possess is, that they can be re-heated, and will be just as good 
3 or 4 days after being baked. 

For a dozen ordinary sized tea cakes the ingredients required 
would be : 3 pounds flour, i teaspoon salt, 3^^ pound fresh butter, 
j4 pound pure lard, }2 pound currants, the same quantity of 
sultanas, 4 ounces lemon peel (candied), i teaspoon mixed spice, 2 
tablespoons white sugar, and 3 ounces fresh German yeast, or what 
would be equal to it in home-made yeast. 

Put the yeast — if German — into a basin with i teaspoon flour 
and the same of sugar. Mix to a smooth paste with lukewarm 
water and beat it gently with the back of a small wooden spoon 
until entirely free from lumps ; then add )4 pint more of lukewarm 
water, stir for a minute, then set in front of the fire to rise. For 
home-made yeast, this of course, is not necessary. Put the flour 
into a bowl large enough to hold 3 or 4 times the quantity ; rub into 
it the butter and lard, then add all the other dry ingredients, thor- 
oughly mixing each one with the rest. When this is done, form a 
hole in the centre and pour in the yeast when sufficiently risen. 
Add lukewarm milk, working the mixture gently with the hand, 
until it becomes a nice light dough. Cover the bowl with a cloth 
and set it in a warm place for about 3 hours, when the dough 
ought to be sufficiently risen to make up into cakes. Divide it into 
twelve pieces of equal size ; knead each one as lightly as possible, 
then slightly flour the paste-board and rolling-pin, and roll the cakes 
out to the thickness of an inch. Prick them with a fork, and place 
them on well-greased baking-tins, quite an inch apart ; set the tins 
before the fire a few minutes until the cakes are well risen, then 
bake them in a moderate oven from ^ to ^ of an hour. If the 
oven is too hot the cakes will not be cooked thoroughly, and if. too 



24 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

cold, they will fall and become heavy ; some judgment therefore 
must be exercised. If the tea cakes arc to be eaten hot, cut them 
open as soon as done, butter freely, and place them on hot plates. 
Dust some fine white sugar over the top and divide into neat-sized 
pieces, cutting from the centre. If they are sent to the table cold, 
cut them in thin slices, crosswise, butter well, and arrange neatly 
on the plates. 

PLAIN SHORT CAKE. 

One quart flour, i saltspoon salt, 2 heaping teaspoons baking 
powder; mix thoroughly ; then add % pound butter i-8 pound lard, 
and enough cold water to make a thick paste. Roll out about y^ 
inch thick, and cut into squares ; prick with a fork and bake immed- 
iately. 

SCOTCH SHORT CAKE, 

Sift together i ^ pints flour, 4 tablespoons sugar, ^^ teaspoon 
salt, I heaping teaspoon baking powder ; rub in 4 tablespoons but- 
ter cold, add 3 beaten eggs, nearly i cup milk, i teaspoon extract of 
orange, or lemon ; mix into a smooth dough without much hand- 
ling, and roll out to the thickness of ]^ inch, and cut into shape of 
small envelopes ; wash over with milk, and lay on each 3 thin slices 
of citron, and a few caraway seeds. Bake in a moderate oven 20 
minutes. 

PEACH SHORT CAKE. 

One quart prepared flour, 2 cups milk, blood warm, 2 tablespoons 
lard and i of butter, yi teaspoon salt, i can peaches. Rub or chop 
the shortening into the salted flour, wet with the milk and roll into a 
sheet Yz inch thick. Line a broad, shallow baking pan with half of 
this ; drain the liquor from the peaches, lay them out on a cloth to 
get rid of all the juice that will come away ; put them in a thick 
layer on the paste in the pan, strew with sugar, cover with the 
reserved crust, and bake in a good, not too hot, oven. When done 
cut in squares and pile on a plate. Split, and eat with butter and 
susar. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 2i. 



SWEET POTATO SHORT CAKE. 



Remove the skin from 2 or 3 medium-sized sweet potatoes, left 
over, and mash them nicely, and mix in about 3 ozs. (3 small table- 
spoons) flour, salt and pepper to taste, a good lump of butter, and 
warm milk enough to make a good dough. Roll this out on the 
kneading board, and cut out a cake about the size of your baking- 
tin ; butter the tin well, and scatter a little flour over it ; then lay 
in; when you think it is nearly done, turn it over. If the bottom 
of the oven is very hot, put a grate under the baking-tin to prevent 
getting too much browned. The danger of burning is lessened if 
instead of one cake you cut the dough in biscuit shape about 2 inches 
thick. If covered while baking the cakes will be more moist. 
These can be made of other potatoes as well as the sweet ones. 
Very nice. 

BAKING POWDER. 

Cream Tartar Baking Potvdcr. — Best cream tartar 30 ounces, 
bicarbonate soda 15 ounces, flour 5 ounces, or in these propor- 
tions. Dry each ingredient thoroughly before mixing. Mix by 
sifting several times, and keep it dry. 

Baking Powder, No. 2. — Mix ^ pound cream of tartar to 
y{ lb soda (or in these proportions) and all mixed at once, if 
dry, and kept in an air tight box in a dry place, and thus you have 
always ready for use a better baking powder than you can buy. 

Baking Powder No. 3. — Mix, by sifting several times, 9 ounces 
bicarbonate soda, 8 ounces tartaric acid, and 10 ounces flour or 
starch. 

Baking Pozvder, N'o. 4. — Sixteen ounces corn-starch, 8 ounces 
bicarbonate of soda, 5 ounces tartaric acid ; mix thoroughly. 



26 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

FRITTERS. 



FRITTERS. 



Make a batter of I pint milk, 3 eggs, a little salt, and flour 
enough to make rather a thick batter. Beat it well and drop in hot 
lard. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Beat 3 eggs very lightly, then stir in i teaspoon salt, ^ cup 
sugar, I pint milk, 2 cups chopped apple, and 2 cups flour. Flavor 
with nutmeg. Stir all well together and fiy in lard as pancakes. 
Sift sugar over them and send to the table. 

BLACKBERRY FRITTERS. 

Mix I cup blackberries with i^ cups common batter and drop 
by tablespoons into hot lard. 

All berry fritters can be made as directed for the above and 
served with spiced sauce made as follows : Set on the fire :^ pint 
water, i cup sugar ; boil 20 minutes, remove from the fire and add I 
teaspoon each of extract cloves, mace, and ginger. 

BEEF FRITTERS. 

Chop pieces of steak or cold roast beef very fine, make a batter 
of milk, flour and an egg, and mix the meat with it. Put a lump of 
butter in a saucepan, let it melt, then drop the batter into it from a 
large spoon. Fry until brown ; season with pepper and salt and a 
little parsley. 

BROWNIES. 

Into I pint soup stock stir 2 tablespoons browned flour and but- 
ter, 3 browned onions, 2 tablespoons tomato or mushroom catsup, 
pepper and salt and the turkey giblets, minus the liver, cooked and 
chopped fine. Thicken to the consistency of blanc-mange with 
Graham or whole wheat flour, or, better still, Graham farina. 
While boiling, stir slowly in the stiffly beaten white of i egg. Fill 
small cups ^ full, or spread on a baking-pan to cool over night. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 2/ 

Cut into any fancied shape, dust with fine bread crumbs, dip in egg, 
then in bread crumbs, and fry brown in hot fat or put a bit of but- 
ter on each and brown in the oven. 

CELERY FRITTERS. 

Boil some thick but tender stalks of celery in salted water ; when 
done dry them on a cloth, cut them in equal lengths about 1^4 
inches ; fry them in batter to a golden color, sprinkling fine salt well 
over, and serve. 

CLAM FRITTERS. 

Twelve clams, minced fine, i pint milk, 3 eggs ; add the liquor 
from the clams to the milk ; beat up the eggs and put to this, with 
salt and pepper, and flour enough for thin batter ; lastly, the 
chopped clams; Fry in hot lard, trying a little first to see if the fat 
and batter are right. A tablespoon will make a fritter of moderate 
size. Or you can dip the whole clams in batter and cook in like 
manner. Fry quickly, or they are apt to be too greasy. 

GREEN CORN FRITTERS. 

Grate green corn from the cob, and allow I }4 eggs for every cup, 
with I tablespoon milk or cream ; beat the eggs well ; add the corn 
by degrees, beating very hard ; salt to taste. Put i tablespoon 
melted butter to every pint of corn ; stir in the milk, and thicken 
with just enough flour to hold them together — say i tablespoon for 
every 2 eggs. You may fry in hot lard, as you would fritters, or 
cook upon a griddle like batter cakes. Eaten at dinner or breakfast, 
these always find a cordial welcome. 

GREEN CORN FRITTERS, NO. 2. 

Two cups grated corn, 2 eggs,: cup milk, flour for thin batter, a 
pinch of soda, salt, i tablespoon melted butter. Mix and fry as you 
would griddle cakes. 

LOBSTER FRITTERS. 

Put I lobster in 2 quarts boiling water with }4 cup salt ; boil 25 

minutes ; when cold remove the meat and fat, cut into small slices ; 

* 



28 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

put I tablespoon butter, i tablespoon flour, i cup cream, a little 
celery, salt, thyme, white pepper, and a saltspoon parsley, into a 
stew-pan ; let boil 2 minutes ; add yolks of 4 eggs, and the lobster ; 
mix and set it back to simmer five minutes ; pour it on a well-greased 
dish and set it away to get firm by cooling ; cut into slices, dip into 
common batter and fry to a light brown in hot lard. Serve on the 
fritters a few sprigs of parsley, quite dry, fried in the lard 15 
seconds. 

MEAT FRITTERS. 

Any tender cold meat, but especially roasted or boiled chicken, 
makes excellent fritters. Chop the meat, whatever it may be, and 
place in a dish ; season with salt and pepper, and pour the juice of a 
fresh lemon over them. Prepare the meat about an hour before 
making the fritters. Stir the meat into any good fritter batter ; then 
drop a large spoonful of it at a time into boiling hot fat and fry to a 
light brown. Drain out of the fat and serve very hot. 

ORANGE FRITTERS. 

Two cups milk, 3 eggs, i ^ cups prepared flour, 6 sweet oranges, 
peeled, sliced and seeded, a pinch of salt. Make a batter of the 
eggs, milk, flour and salt. Dip into this the slices of oranges and 
fry them in boiling lard. Drain in a colander on white paper and 
eat hot with a sauce made by creaming 2 tablespoons butter in i cup 
sugar and flavoring with lemon juice. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Drain them thoroughly, chop fine, season with pepper and salt. 
Make a batter of eggs, milk and flour ; stir the chopped oysters in 
this and fry in hot butter ; or fry them whole, enveloped in batter, 
one in each fritter. In this case the batter should be thicker than 
if they were chopped. 

PEACH FRITTERS. 

Make a batter of 2 well-beaten eggs, ^ pint milk, a little salt, and 
flour enough to thif ken ; beat veiy smooth and light, and add a table- 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 29 

spoon butter or olive oil. Peel and cut the peaches in halves ; dip 
them in the batter and fry them in boiling fat until they are a deli- 
cate brown. Serve on a hot dish and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

A very nice way to cook parsnips is as fritters. Take 3 large 
parsnips boiled till soft, scrape and mash fine, picking out all strings 
and lumps ; add 2 beaten eggs, 2 tablespoons new milk, and 2 of 
sifted flour, an even teaspoon salt, y^ teaspoon pepper, ; mix thor- 
oughly ; make into small cakes, flour them and fry brown in butter 
or oil ; eat with butter. 

RICE FRITTERS. 

Boil I cup rice in i pint milk until soft ; add the yolks of 3 eggs, 
I tablespoon sugar, 2 tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons flour ; when 
cold add the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth ; drop in 
spoonfuls in plenty of hot lard and fry to a light brown color. Serve 
with cream or lemon sauce. 



GEMS. 



CORN GEMS. 



Two cups corn meal, 2 cups flour, 2 cups sweet milk, 2 eggs, 
3 heaping teaspoons baking powder, j4 cup butter and ]4 cup sugar. 
Bake in gem-pans. 

COLD WATER GEMS. 

Take cold water, Graham flour, and a little salt, make rather a 
stiff batter ; heat and grease the irons, or tins, and bake 20 minutes. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

One egg well beaten, a pinch of salt, i pint sour or buttermilk, 
I teacup syrup, ^ teacup lard, i heaping teaspoon soda, Graham 



30 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

flour enough for stiff batter; drop by spoonfuls into buttered gem- 
rings ; bake in hot oven till light brown. 

PLAIN GRAHAM GEMS. 

One pint milk, i pint Graham flour, saltspoon salt ; beat well ; 
heat the gem-pan hot, butter it and drop the dough into the sockets 
with a spoon, filling each ^ full. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

One cup Graham flour, 2 eggs, 2 cups milk, y^ teaspoon salt. 
Have the gem-pans hot and the oven hot, and 20 minutes will be 
long enough to bake them. 

GRAHAM GEMS, NO. 2. 

Seven tablespoons Graham, 4 tablespoons flour, i tablespoon 
sugar, I Yz teaspoons baking powder, salt to taste ; mix with water ; 
stir but little ; have the batter stiff; bake in iron gem-pans, which 
heat hot before filling. 

HOMINY GEMS. 

One pint fresh boiled hominy (or, cold hominy may be used ; if 
the latter, break into grains, as lightly as possible, with a fork, and 
heat in a farina kettle without adding water), i tablespoon water, 
2 eggs — whites and yolks beaten separately. Stir the yolks into 
the hominy first, then add the whites, and i teaspoon salt, if the 
hominy has not been salted in cooking ; or, if it has, use ]4. teaspoon. 
Drop, in tablespoonfuls, on well buttered gem-tins, and bake to a 
good brown in a quick oven. 

MIXED GEMS. 

One-half pint Graham, ^ pint corn meal, ^ pint rye flour, y^ 
pint buckwheat flour, i teaspoon salt, 2 heaping teaspoons baking 
powder, i pint rich milk ; mix into a thin batter, then half fill well- 
greased gem-pans. Bake in hot oven 15 minutes. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 3 1 

OATMEAL GEMS. 

Soak I cup oatmeal over night, with i cup water. In the morn- 
ing sift together, dry, i cup flour and 2 teaspoons baking powder, 
add a httle salt, mix the oatmeal and flour together, wet with sweet 
milk to a stiff batter, drop into gem-pans and bake immediately. 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 



On cold, winter mornings pancakes of all kinds hold an important 
place at the breakfast table ; the buckwheat cake the most cherished 
of all. When properly made, this is the most delicious of all the 
griddle cakes. 

The batter for wheat flour and buckwheat cakes should be made 
moderately thin, and baked on a smooth, quick griddle, using but 
very little fat. If you have a soapstone griddle no fat will be 
required. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Stir the flour in warm water to make a tolerably thick batter, 
using (for the first mixing) 2 or 3 tablespoons yeast, or one yeast 
cake to each quart flour, and a teaspoon salt. Mix in an earthen 
crock at night and set in a warm place. In the morning, if the bat- 
ter be sour, add a little soda — not too much — dissolved in enough 
hot water and milk to make the batter of the proper consistency ; 
stand in a warm place for a few minutes. The best thing for a 
greaser is a piece of fat pork. Leave enough of the batter in the 
crock to raise the next batch. In this way no more yeast will be 
required for several days. 

Each time, when through baking, fill the crock with cold water 
to keep the batter sweet, which pour off at night and mix as before. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES, NO 2. 

Take, of equal parts of buttermilk and water, i quart, ^ cup 
yeast, a little salt ; stir into a batter with buckwheat flour, let rise 



32 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



over night ; in the morning add yi teaspoon soda dissolved in a little 
water. Bake on a hot griddle. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES, NO. 3. 

Two cups buckwheat, i cup wheat flour, 2 tablespoons baking 
powder, y^ teaspoon salt, all sifted well together. Mix with milk 
into a thin batter and bake at once on a hot griddle. 

CREAM PANCAKES. 

Take the yolks of 2 eggs, mix them with ^ pint good cream 
and 2 ounces sugar and enough flour to make a thin batter ; fry 
as thin as possible in lard, grate sugar over them, and serve hot. 

CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One pint corn meal, i of sour milk or buttermilk, I ^^^^ I tea- 
spoon soda, I of salt. Bake on a griddle. 

GREEN CORN GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Six ears grated corn, 2 eggs, i pint milk, i tablespoon butter, a 
little salt, enough flour for thin batter. Bake on a griddle. 

DIXIE CORN DODGERS. 

Place your griddle where it will heat, for this is much better than 
a bread-pan, there being less danger of scorching at the bottom. 
Take i even pint sifted meal, i heaping tablespoon lard, a pinch of 
salt, and a scant 3^ pint cold water ; mix well and let it stand while 
you grease your griddle and sprinkle some meal over it. Make the 
dough into rolls the size and shape of goose eggs, and drop them on 
the griddle, taking care to flatten as little as possible, for the less 
bottom crust the better. Place in the oven and bake until brown 
on the bottom. Then change to the grate, and brown on top, 
taking from 20 to 30 minutes for the whole process. Eaten while 
hot with plenty of good butter, they are better than any other 
bread. 

The same amount of meal, lard and salt mixed with boiling 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 33 

water, till of the consistency of thick batter, will give you delightful 
hot cakes, to be cooked like any other batter bread. 

EGG CORN CAKES. 

One quart new milk, i pint sifted meal, i heaping teaspoon 
baking powder, 2 tablespoons butter, the whites of 6 eggs, beaten 
stiff. Bake on a hot griddle and serve immediately. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

One quart milk, 3 tablespoons yeast, i tablespoon butter, melted, 
2 eggs well beaten, i teaspoon salt ; flour to make a good batter. 
Set the rest of the ingredients as a sponge over night, and in the 
morning add the melted butter and eggs. 

GRAHAM GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One pint Graham flour into which has been well mixed 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder and ^ teaspoon salt ; make a thin batter 
with milk and cook in thin cakes on a soapstone griddle. 

GENEVA GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Two pints flour, 5 tablespoons sugar, ^ teaspoon salt, 2 of bak- 
ing powder, 2 tablespoons butter, 4 eggs, milk enough for batter. 
Bake on a hot griddle, and sift over with powdered sugar. 

HOMINY CAKES. 

Take two cups cooked hominy, and crush it with a potato 
masher until it is a smooth mass. Add i level teaspoon salt, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, and i cup flour. Stir together, then add by 
degrees i quart milk, and lastly 3 well-beaten eggs. Bake in thin 
cakes. 

MINCE GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Chop all the cold bits of meat you may have, of whatever kind, 
cooked of course ; season with salt and pepper, make a griddle batter 
as for pancakes, lay a spoonful on the well-buttered griddle, then a 
spoonful of the chopped meat and part of a spoonful of batter over 



34 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

the meat ; when cooked on one side turn, and when done serve as 
hot as possible. 

MUSH BATTER CAKES. 

Two cups corn meal mush, i of flour, 2 eggs, a pinch of salt ; 
use sufficient sweet milk to make batter, and bake on hot, greased 
griddle. 

OAT GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Two teacups oat meal mush, ^ teacup flour, i teaspoon each of 
sugar and baking powder, i teaspoon salt ; mix the baking powder 
in with the flour, add cold water to make a thin batter, beat together 
thoroughly and bake immediately. 

PEA PANCAKES. 

Boil the pease soft and mash them with a potato beetle. Whip 
into them i teaspoon butter, pepper and salt to taste, i egg, 
whipped light, i cup milk, and }4 cup flour into which has been 
thoroughly mixed i teaspoon baking powder. Bake on a griddle 
and eat very hot. 

RAISIN SPIRALS. 

Two eggs, I cup sugar, }4 cup butter, i cup chopped raisins, )4 
cup sour milk, i teaspoon soda dissolved in the milk ; spice to taste ; 
sufficient flour stirred in to make the mixture very stifT. Roll out 
quite thin, cut strips about 2 inches wide and 4 inches long, and roll 
around the fingers as if curling hair. Fry in butter till of a delicate 
brown. Sprinkle with granulated sugar. 

RYE GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One cup Indian meal, 2 cups rye flour, }4 tablespoon molasses, 2 
eggs, beaten light, hot milk to make ordinary batter. Scald the 
Indian meal with the milk, stir in the rye flour and the molasses, 
add the eggs, beat hard and fry. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 35 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Rice griddle cakes'are very delicious. The rice is cooked until 
perfectly soft, drained dry, mashed with a spoon until the grains are 
well broken up. For each cup of rice take 2 eggs, i pint milk, i 
heaping teaspoon baking powder, j^ teaspoon salt, and flour enough 
to make a thin batter. 

SWEET GRIDDLE CAKES. 

A very delicious pancake is made by taking i pint milk, 4 eggs, 2 
tablespoons powdered sugar, 2 tablespoons melted butter, i teaspoon 
baking powder, and flour enough to make a moderately thin batter. 
Beat the eggs, whites and yolks separately, until well frothed, stir the 
butter, sugar and i cup flour, into which the baking powder has 
been mixed, into the yolks, then add the milk and the whites. If 
needed, add more flour. Bake in small cakes, butter each one as it 
comes from the fire, place 4 in a pile, with very thin layers of any 
kind of sweet jelly between, and powdered sugar over the top. They 
should be baked very thin and four served to each person. These 
may be used as a dessert. 

SAUCE FOR PANCAKES. 

One cup boiling water, i cup sugar, i tablespoon butter, ^ tea- 
spoon cinnamon or nutmeg, juice and grated rind of a lemon. Stir 
sugar and butter into the boiling water, and add the lemon and 
spice after taking it from the fire. 

TABLE SYRUP. 

Take i}i pints water, 4 pounds sugar, i teaspoon pulverized 
alum ; put in a kettle and boil 3 minutes. Strain while hot. For 
maple syrup, i quart water for 4 pounds sugar. 

TABLE SYRUP, NO. 2. 

The purest and richest syrup is made by dissolving sugar in the 
proportion of 3 pounds sugar to i pint water. Many persons prefer 
the flavor of syrup made of Orleans sugar to that made of the white. 



26 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

MUFFINS. 



BAKING rOWDER MUFFINS. 

One pint sifted corn meal, j^ pint flour, i tablespoon white 
sugar, a little salt and 2 teaspoons baking powder. Mix to a thick 
batter with sweet milk, and bake in mufifin-rings. 

BUTTERMILK MUFFINS. 

These have but to be tried to become a standing breakfast dish. 
Beat hard 2 eggs into i quart buttermilk, and stir in flour to 
make a thick batter, and lastly i teaspoon salt and the same of soda. 
Bake in a hot oven in well-greased tins. Mufifins of all kinds should 
only be cut just around the edge, then pulled open with the fingers. 

CORN MEAL MUFFINS. 

One egg, i teaspoon salt, i tablespoon lard, 3 teacups fresh but- 
termilk, 2 small teaspoons soda, and enough corn meal to make as 
thick as cake batter. Sift soda into meal and add salt last. Grease 
the mufifin-pan well, and have hot enough to fry before putting in 
batter. Place in a hot oven and bake quickly. 

ENTIRE WHEAT MUFFINS. 

For a dozen mufifins there will be required i }^ cups of entire 
wheat flour, i cup milk, ^ cup water, i egg, i teaspoon cream of 
tartar, y^ teaspoon salt, and 2 tablespoons sugar. Mix the dry 
ingredients and sift them into a bowl. Beat the egg until it is light, 
and add the milk and water to it. Pour this mixture upon the dry 
ingredients, and heat them quickly and vigorously. Pour the batter 
into buttered muffin-pans and bake for 25 minutes in a rather quick 
oven. The batter will be thin and will give a moist muffin, but that 
is as it should be. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Two cups sour milk, i teaspoon saleratus, 2 eggs, a little salt, 
butter half the size of an egg, 3 cups Graham flour. Bake in rings. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 3/ 

GRAHAM MUFFINS, NO. 2. 

Two cups Graham flour, i cup milk, ^ cup sugar, i egg, 
butter the size of an egg, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Bake in 
rings 20 or 30 minutes in hot oven. 

LUNCH MUFFINS. 

Beat 2 eggs, with 2 tablespoons sugar, to a cream ; add i cup 
yeast, 2 cups milk, with i quart flour, and bake in buttered tins. 

MUFFINS. 

One pint milk, 2 beaten eggs, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 2 
tablespoons sugar, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, i teaspoon soda, 
flour enough to make a batter that will drop from the spoon. 

MUFFINS, NO. 2. 

Two eggs, 2 tablespoons sugar, i tablespoon butter, i pint flour, 
milk enough to make a batter, i teaspoon baking powder. 

POTATO AND CORN MUFFINS. 

Two cups cold mashed potatoes, 2 cups milk, 2 eggs, well- 
beaten, 2 cups corn meal or enough for a batter. Soften the potato 
with the milk, working, out all the lumps, then stir in corn meal till 
the batter is just thick enough to drop easily from the spoon ; add 
the whipped eggs and beat hard. Drop into the gem-pans, oiled and 
hot, and bake in an even oven from 20 to 30 minutes. 

RICE MUFFINS. 

One cup cold boiled rice, i pint flour, 2 eggs, i quart milk or 
enough to make a thin batter, i tablespoon lard or butter, i tea- 
spoon salt ; beat well and bake in a quick oven. 

RYE MUFFINS. 

One pint flour, i pint rye meal, 2 tablespoons yeast, milk enough 
to make a thick batter. 



38 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

WHITE MUFFINS. 

One-half cup sugar, j^ cup water, i ^ cups flour, the whites of 3 
eggs, I tablespoon butter, lyi teaspoons baking powder; bake in 
muffin-pans. 



MUSH. 



HOW TO MAKE MUSH. 

Very few people know how to make this dish as it should be. 
The ingredients for a dish of mush are water, salt, and corn meal. 
The water should be soft, the salt fine, and the corn meal of the first 
quality ; yellow meal gives the best color, but white meal is the 
more easily cooked. The water should be boiling hot at the com- 
mencement, middle, and end of the operation. The meal should be 
added very slowly, so as to prevent any lumps from being formed, 
the cook stirring all the time, and should never be in such quantities 
as would bring down the temperature of the water below the boiling 
point. Herein lies the secret of making good mush. Mush should 
be thoroughly cooked. 

CORN MUSH. 

Take boiling water (soft water is preferjable), salt to the taste, 
add meal very slowly so as to prevent any lumps being formed ; 
cook thoroughly. 

CRACKED WHEAT MUSH. 

To I quart salted water add 3/j^ cup cracked or rolled wheat, and 
boil 2 hours ; or it may be soaked over night and boiled i hour. 

CRACKED WHEAT MUSH. NO. 2. 

Moisten i]4 cups cracked wheat with cold water, add ^ teaspoon 
salt, place in a muslin bag, leaving half the space for the wheat to 
swell; put into a small colander and place in a kettle of water and 
keep boiling from 3 to 4 hours. Serve with syrup and butter or 
cream and surar. It is nice sliced and fried when cold. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 39 

FRIED MUSH FOR BREAKFAST. 

Night before, stir into 2 quarts boiling water a little salt and i 
pound farina, boil for 10 minutes, and pour into a shallow dish to 
cool ; next morning cut into slices, and fry in lard to a light brown. 
This is far superior to corn meal mush. 

HOMINY. 

Take i cup hominy to i quart salted water and soak over night 
and boil ^ hour. Serve with milk and sugar. Slice and fry when 
cold. 

COOKING OATMEAL. 

Oatmeal requires very long and steady cooking. Take i teacup 
oatmeal to five of water. If your breakfast is early it is better to 
begin the night before by mixing the oatmeal smooth in cold water, 
then pour into boiling water, adding a little salt to season. Keep 
this water at the boiling point for 2 hours, and just before it is thor- 
oughly cooked add a little milk to whiten and improve the flavor. 
Stir thoroughly at intervals. 

OATMEAL MUSH. 

Put 4 tablespoons oatmeal into i quart cold water; add i tea- 
spoon salt, let it cook slowly from i to 2 hours, adding hot water 
when needed ; just before serving stir in i teaspoon butter, or soak 
the meal over night and add boiling water and cook in the morning. 
It is best cooked in a double boiler. 

FRIED INDIAN MEAL PORRIDGE. 

Dry a pint of yellow meal in the oven and then sift it. Add to i 
quart boiling water i teaspoon salt, and by degrees dredge in the 
meal. Stir constantly and cook ^ to ^ of an hour. Place on 
back of range until the moisture is well evaporated, then pour into 
greased bread-tins and put away to become cold and firm. Next 
morning cut into half inch slices, dust over them a little flour and 
fry a delicate brown. The object in drying the meal before cooking 



40 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

it is to remove all moisture it may have contracted when in a damp 
store or closet. Damp meal often ferments, and it is then unhealthy. 
Add I ounce butter and 2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese 
to the dish while it is cooking and it becomes Polenta, the favorite 
food of Italy. 



PUFFS. 



ALMOND PUFFS. 

Blanch and pound 2 ounces sweet almonds with a little water ; 
add 2 tablespoons finely sifted sugar, 2 ounces clarified butter, 2 
tablespoons flour. When these are thoroughly mixed add the 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs, and i cup cream. Well oil about a dozen 
patty-pans and half fill them with the mixture. Bake in a moderate 
oven for ^ hour. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

One-half pint boiling water, i cup butter, 2 cups flour. Let the 
water and butter boil, then stir in the flour ; let it cool ; add 5 eggs 
well beaten ; beat all well ; drop in mufifin-rings ; bake 30 minutes. 
Boil I pint milk ; beat together i cup flour, i cup sugar, and 2 eggs ; 
add this to the boiling milk and boil 3 minutes; cut a hole in the 
top of each cake and fill with cream, putting the piece of crust back. 

CREAM PUFFS, NO. 2. 

Melt Yz cup butter in i cup hot water, and while boiling beat in 
I cup flour. Take it from the fire and when cool stir in 3 eggs, i 
at a time, without beating them. Drop the mixture on tins in small 
spoonfuls and bake in a moderate oven. 

Custard for the Filling. — i^ cups milk, 2 eggs, 4 tablespoons 
flour, sugar to the taste, and flavor with vanilla. Beat up the eggs 
and sugar and stir in the milk with the flavoring, and when it comes 
to a boil stir in the flour, previously mixed smooth in a little milk. 
Cool and fill the puffs by opening them a very little. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



41 



CREAM PUFFS, NO. 3. 

One-half pound butter, }^ pound flour, 8 eggs, i pint water ; have 
water and butter boihng ; put in all the flour and stir till smooth. 
When cold beat the eggs light and with the hand mix well with the 
dough ; drop on buttered paper and bake in a hot oven ^ hour. 

Cream for Puffs. — One pint milk, 2 tablespoons flour, 2 eggs, i 
cup sugar, a little salt. Let milk and sugar boil and stir eggs and 
flour (well mixed) in it. 

CORN MEAL PUFFS. 

One quart boiling milk, 2 scant cups white " corn flour," ^ cup 
wheat flour, i scant cup powdered sugar, a little salt, 4 eggs, beaten 
light, I tablespoon butter, ^ teaspoon soda dissolved in hot water, 
I teaspoon cream of tartar sifted into flour, I/2 teaspoon mixed cin- 
namon and nutmeg. Boil the milk and stir into it the meal, flour 
and salt. Boil 15 minutes, stirring well up from the bottom. Put 
in the butter and beat hard in a bowl for 3 minutes. When cold 
put in the eggs whipped light with the sugar, the seasoning and 
soda ; whip up very faithfully. Bake in greased cups in a steady 
oven. Turn out of cups and eat with pudding sauce or with butter 
alone. 

GERMAN PUFFS. 

Put j^ pint new milk into a sauce-pan with 2 tablespoons fresh 
butter. When it boils, mix smoothly with it 2 tablespoons flour, a 
pinch salt, ^ nutmeg grated, and i tablespoon sugar. When cool 
add 2 well-beaten eggs. Butter some cups, rather more than half fill 
them with the mixture and bake in a good oven. Serve as hot as 
possible with a sauce. 

GRAHAM PUFFS. 

One &^^, I pint milk, i pint Graham flour, and a pinch of salt ; 
beat the egg thoroughly ; add the milk, then the flour gradually ; 
beat the whole mixture briskly with an egg-beater; pour into iron 
gem-pans, well-greased, and hot ; bake in very hot oven. This mix- 
ture is just sufficient for 12 gems. 



42 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

HASTY PUFFS. 

Stir 4 tablespoons flour quickly and smoothly into ^ pint boil- 
ing milk which has been sweetened, and flavored with lemon-rind or 
nutmeg ; boil up, then add 2 tablespoons butter, and, when cool, 2 
beaten eggs; butter 4 small moulds; pour ^ of the mixture into 
each, and bake in a hot oven. Turn out and place a little jam on 
the top of each puff. 

LEMON TURNOVERS. 

Four dessert spoons flour, i dessert spoon powdered sugar, the 
rind and juice of i lemon, 2 ounces melted butter, 2 eggs and a 
little milk ; mix flour, sugar and lemon with the milk to the consis- 
tency of batter, add the butter and eggs well beaten. Fry and 
turn over. 

OATMEAL PUFFS. 

Sift together ^ pint oatmeal, Yi pint Graham, ^ pint flour, i 
teaspoon sugar, yi teaspoon salt, and 2 teaspoons baking powder; 
add 3 beaten eggs and i pint milk ; mix into a thin batter ; half fill 
well-greased gem-pans and bake in hot oven 10 or 15 minutes. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

To each 2 cups mashed potatoes take i tablespoon melted butter 
and beat to a cream ; put with this 2 eggs whipped light, and i cup 
milk, salting to taste ; beat all well ; pour into greased baking-dish 
and bake quickly to a light brown. Serve in the dish in which it is 
cooked. 

TEA PUFFS. 

Two and one-quarter cups flour, 3 cups milk, 3 eggs, whites and 
yolks beaten separately, 3 teaspoons melted butter, a little salt. 
Bake in cups, in a hot oven. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 43 

ROLLS. 



HOW TO MAKE ROLLS. 

When mashing potatoes "or dinner, put i tablespoon of it into i 
pint of the water tlicy v.-crc boiled in, and set aside till bed-time ; 
then strain it through a colander, add i pint milk, i large spoon 
nice lard, i large spoon white sugar, i teaspoon salt, j4 cake dry- 
yeast, and flour to make a stiff batter. Leave it in a moderately- 
warm place. In the morning add flour enough to make a soft dough, 
working it well. Let it rise again, roll out ^ inch thick, cut into 
round cake, fold together, drawing a buttered knife through as you 
fold them. Let them rise again for j4 hour, or until light ; bake in 
a quick oven for 15 or 20 minutes. In cold weather the milk should 
be lukewarm ; in hot weather the milk should be scalded and cooled. 
The potatoes must be pared before boiling, and the kettle in which 
they are boiled must be perfectly clean. 

CINNAMON ROLLS. 

Take light dough, as for bread ; mix in shortening, i egg, and a 
little sugar ; roll out to about j^ inch thick ; spread with butter, 
then sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon ; roll up and cut as you 
would a jelly cake ; put in pans like biscuit ; set to rise. When 
light, put in a little lump of butter, and sugar and cinnamon on each 
one, and bake. 

EGG ROLLS. 

Two cups milk, 2 eggs, }( teaspoon salt, 3^ cups sifted flour, i 
teaspoon baking powder ; bake in gem-pans. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Into I pound flour rub 2 ounces butter and the whites of 3 eggs 
well-beaten ; add i tablespoon good yeast, a little salt, and milk 
enough to make a stiff dough ; cover and set in a warm place till 
light ; cut into rolls, dip the edges into melted butter to keep them 
from sticking together, and bake in a quick oven. 



44 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

GRAHAM BREAKFAST ROLLS. 

Take 6 potatoes, boiled and pressed through a colander, i pint 
warm water, Yz cup sugar, ^ teaspoon salt, ^ cup yeast ; mix into 
a stiff dough with Graham flour, and let rise over night ; in the 
morning mold into rolls and bake when light. 

KENTUCKY ROLLS. 

Put 3 quarts flour in a large pan, scald i quart buttermilk, add I 
cup lard, and pour over the flour ; beat well ; then add i cup milk- 
warm water and i cup yeast. Set in a warm place over night. In 
the morning mix in i teaspoon salt, i tablespoon sugar, and flour to 
make a stiff dough. Let rise twice — kneading thoroughly — then 
cut in long rolls, put in pans, and bake when light. This dough, if 
set in a cool place, will keep a week, and will be found very conven- 
ient for breakfast. 

OATMEAL ROLLS. 

Sift together ^ pint oatmeal, yi pint Graham, i pint flour, I 
teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder, and mix with ^ pint 
milk into a smooth dough ; turn out and give one or two quick 
kneadings to complete its quality ; roll out to the thickness of ^ 
inch, cut out with large round cutter, fold through the centre, laying 
one half over on the other, lay them on a greased baking-tin so they 
do not touch, wash over with milk and bake in a good hot oven 15 
minutes. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

One cup each of warm new milk and yeast, 2 tablespoons each 
of sugar and melted lard, i quart flour, or enough to mold firm ; let 
it rise till light, then mold, roll out about ^ inch thick, cut with a 
biscuit cutter ; butter the tops, fold up, let it rise until light and 
bake in a quick oven. 

POTATO ROLLS. 

Add to 12 mashed potatoes, salt, butter, i cup milk and 2 
eggs, make into rolls, cover with flour, and fry brown in butter. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 45 

TREMONT HOUSE ROLLS. 

Take 2 quarts flour, add i teaspoon salt ; make a hole in the 
middle and put into it i tablespoon sugar, butter about the size of 
an egg, i pint boiled milk, and i teacup yeast. Do not stir but put 
them together at night, and set in a cool place until morning. 
Then mix all together and knead 15 minutes. Set in a cool 
place again for 6 hours, and roll out about ^ inch thick and cut 
with a biscuit cutter; moisten one edge with butter, and fold 
together like rolls; lay in the pan so that they will not touch, set 
for ^ hour in a warm place to rise, and bake in a quick oven. 

TEA ROLLS. 

One quart flour, 2 eggs, i tablespoon butter, melted, 2 table- 
spoons yeast, enough milk to work into a soft dough, i saltspoon 
salt, I teaspoon white sugar. Rub the butter into the sifted flour. 
Beat the eggs well with a cup of milk, and work into the flour, 
adding more milk if necessary, to make the dough of right consist- 
ency. Stir the sugar into the yeast, and work this into the dough 
with a wooden spoon, until all the ingredients are thorougly incor- 
porated. Do not knead it with the hands. Set to rise in a moder- 
ately warm place until very light. Make into rolls lightly and 
quickly, handling as little as possible. Set these in rows in your bak- 
ing-pan just close enough together to touch. Throw a cloth lightly 
over them, and set on the hearth for a second rising, until they begin 
to " plump," which should be in about 15 minutes. Bake ^ hour 
in a steady oven. They are best eaten hot. 

VIENNA TWIST ROLLS. 

Break pieces off dough (as prepared for common rolls) the size of 
an egg, and divide each piece into 2 unequal pieces, the largest piece 
form with the hands into a plain roll tapering at each end ; lay them, 
thus formed, on a greased baking-tin so as not to touch each other ; 
flatten each a little and wash over with milk ; divide the remaining 
pieces each into 3, roll the pieces out under the hands into strips a 
little longer than the roll already made, and braid them ; then lay 



46 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

each braid, as soon as formed, on top the plain roll ; when all are 
made, wash over with milk. Bake in a hot oven 20 minutes — a very- 
handsome roll for a dinner party, 

WHITE MOUNTAIN ROLLS. 

Sixteen cups flour, ^ cup sugar, i cup butter, i cup yeast, the 
whites of 4 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and 4 cups boiling milk ; 
melt the butter and sugar in the milk, have the milk blood warm 
and mix the bread, adding the whites of eggs after mixing in part of 
the flour ; knead stiff and let rise in a warm place over night. In 
the morning knead into rolls and let rise till light ; rub the beaten 
white of an egg over the tops of rolls, and bake 30 minutes. 



RUSKS. 



RUSKS. 



Half pint milk, i teacup yeast, 2 eggs ; mix with suflBcient 
flour for a stiff batter and raise ; then add i cup butter, }4 cup 
sugar, I teaspoon soda, and a little nutmeg ; let rise, and knead out into 
biscuits ; let rise again and bake. Just before taking out of the oven 
beat up the white of an egg and rub over the top, then sprinkle with 
sugar ; put into the oven again for a moment, and serve hot. 

OLD-FASHIONED SWEET RUSKS. 

Take i pint warm milk, ^ cup butter, i cup sugar, 2 eggs, i tea- 
spoon salt, 2 tablespoons yeast. Make a sponge with the milk, 
yeast and enough flour for a thin batter, and let it rise over night. 
In the morning add the butter, eggs and sugar, previously well 
beaten up together, salt and flour enough to make a stiff dough. 
Mold with the hands into balls of a uniform size, set close together 
in a pan and let them rise till very light. After baking, wash the 
tops with a clean linen cloth, dipped in molasses and milk, or 
molasses and water. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 47 

RUSK WITHOUT EGGS. 

When making light bread take i pint of the sponge, i cup sugar, 
I cup butter, and mix with flour enough to make as for biscuit ; 
spice to taste. Let set till it rises like bread, then mold into small 
biscuit and stand till light before baking. 

RUSK WITH TWO EGGS. 

One pint new milk, i cup hop yeast, and flour to make a batter, 
setting over night ; in the morning adding ^ pint more new milk, i 
cup sugar, i cup butter and i egg, seasoning with nutmeg, and flour 
to make quite stiff. Let it rise, then rolling it out, cutting it into 
small cakes, rising again, and baking. Have ready i teaspoon sugar, 
with I egg well beaten, and just before done, brush over the top 
with this, replacing till lightly browned, to keep the crust moist. If 
wanted extra nice, add i cup raisins. 

SWEET RUSKS. 

In I coffeecup warm milk dissolve i cake compressed yeast, 
then add 3 eggs and i cup sugar, and beat all together ; use only 
flour enough to roll out, to which add 2 ounces butter ; let it rise. 
When very light, knead, mold into shape, and set in a warm place. 
When light, bake in a hot oven ; when done, cover the top with 
sugar dissolved in milk. 



SANDWICHES. 



EGG SANDWICHES. 

Take slices of buttered bread and grate hard-boiled eggs on each 
slice with a coarse grater, sprinkle with pepper and salt ; then lay 2 
slices together. 

This sandwich may be varied by grating a layer of cold smoked 
tongue or ham over the egg on one slice and not on the other. 
These require a light and dexterous hand to keep the egg from 
being crushed. 



48 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



HAM SANDWICHES. 

Take well-boiled ham, y^ fat and ^ lean, chop it until it is as 
fine as paste, then stir in the yolk of an egg. To i teaspoon mus- 
tard, mix I tablespoon Worcestershire sauce ; use this or more in 
such proportions as you may require. 

LUNCH SANDWICHES. 

Grate i pound each of lean ham and beef tongue, add 2 table- 
spoons chopped pickle, i of French mustard, with pepper and salt; 
put in a bowl and mix with y2 teacup melted butter. Have thin 
slices of buttered bread, on which spread the mixture. 

Minced ham or tongue, spread on bread and butter, with or 
without seasoning, makes nice sandwiches. 

MIXED SANDWICHES. 

Chop fine equal quantities of cold ham, tongue and chicken ; 
mix with the meat yi cup melted butter, i tablespoon salad oil, i of 
mustard, the powdered yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, and a little 
white pepper ; spread on thin buttered bread. 

OYSTER SANDWICHES. 

Chop I quart raw oysters very fine, season with pepper, salt, a 
little nutmeg; mix with ]/2 cup melted butter, the same of rich 
cream, whites of 3 eggs beaten, and 8 powdered crackers. Heat 
them over steam in an oatmeal boiler or over the fire until a smooth 
paste ; set away until very cold ; then cut and lay between buttered 
slices of bread. 

PINARD SANDWICHES. 

Purchase what are known as finger rolls. They are about 4 or 
5 inches long and quite thick. Split these and scrape out most of 
the crumb. Butter the inside of the shells thus left and fill the hol- 
lows with finely chopped meat, tying the halves of the roll together 
in the middle with narrow ribbon. A pretty variety may be made 
by using ribbons of different colors, as pink or red for tongue sand- 
wiches, pale blue or green for chicken, etc. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 49 

SANDWICHES OF POTTED RABBIT 

Make baking powder biscuit, large but thin. When cold, split 
them, spread one half with butter, the other with potted rabbit, 
and press together. 

SCHOOL LUNCH SANDWICHES. 

Beat 3 eggs, 3 tablespoons milk, i saltspoon salt, and a dash of 
pepper ; fry it as you would a griddle-cake, and lay between buttered 
bread or biscuit, or slice hard-boiled eggs or nice stewed codfish left 
cold, and lay between slices of bread and butter. 

TONGUE SANDWICHES. 

Grate i pound cold boiled tongue. Mix with a tablespoon mus- 
tard, a little pepper, the mashed yolk of a hard-boiled egg, an ounce 
of butter and the juice of a lemon. Split nice light biscuit and 
spread between. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES. 

Open a can of sardines, remove the skin and bones, lay bits of 
the fish on well-spread bread and butter ; squeeze lemon over it ; 
lay a slice of buttered bread on top. 

SALAD SANDWICHES. 

Cut up 4 ounces breast of boiled chicken and 4 ounces tongue, 
place them in a mortar, and pound them to a paste ; add 2 salt- 
spoons celery-salt, a pinch of cayenne, i teaspoon anchovy paste, 
and 4 tablespoons Mayonnaise ; put the mixture in a cold dish, and 
set it aside. 

Take a few neat leaves of lettuce, dip each leaf in a little tarra- 
gon vinegar, shake it, and place it on a slice of bread ; spread a layer 
of the prepared meat over the lettuce, then another leaf of lettuce 
over the meat, and the other slice of bread, and your sandwich is 
made. Trim off the crust, cut each sandwich in two, and fold each 
piece neatly in confectionery (oiled) paper. 

Ham and veal make a nice salad sandwich. The meat may be 
spread on the bread and the lettuce in the center, if preferred. 



5© BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

TOAST. 



ASPARAGUS ON TOAST. 

Tie the bunch of asparagus up with soft string, when you have 
cut away the wood, and cook about 20 minutes in salted boiling 
water. Have ready some slices of crustless toast ; dip each in the 
asparagus liquor ; butter well while hot and lay upon a heated dish. 
Drain the asparagus and arrange upon the toast. Pepper, salt and 
butter generously. If desired, break an egg over each, and place in 
a hot oven until the whites are firm. 

BOMBAY TOAST. 

Take i ounce anchovies, wash, bone and pound with i ounce 
butter till reduced to a paste, warm in a sauce-pan, and add the 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs, season with salt and cayenne pepper. 
Spread the mixture on toast. 

BREAKFAST TOAST. 

Mix 2 tablespoons sugar, a little salt, and a well-beaten egg, in ^ 
pint milk. In this mixture dip slices of bread and fry them on a 
buttered griddle until they are light brown on each side. 

CREAM TOAST. 

Take slices of stale bread, i quart milk, 3 tablespoons butter, 
whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff, salt, and 3 tablespoons flour. Toast 
the bread to a golden brown, have a dish }4 full boiling water in 
which I tablespoon butter has been melted ; as each slice is toasted 
dip it in this for a second and lay in the deep heated dish in which 
it is to be served. Have ready, by the time the bread is all toasted, 
the milk scalding hot, but not boiling ; thicken this with the flour; 
let simmer until cooked ; put in the remaining butter, and when this 
is melted the beaten whites of the eggs ; boil up once and pour over 
the toast, lifting the slices that the cream may run between ; cover 
closely ; set in the oven a few moments before sending to the table. 
It is good without the eggs. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. $1 

CHEESE AND EGG TOAST. 

Put I cup cheese crumbs into ^ pint rich milk ; boil until it 
melts. Have 2 eggs well beaten. Season the milk with salt, pepper 
and butter to taste ; turn in the eggs ; stir rapidly for a few minutes; 
remove from the fire and spread it over some hot slices of toasted 
bread. Cut them in halves and quarters and serve on a hot platter. 

FRIED BREAD. 

Take dry bread, dip it in hot water quickly, and lay on a hot 
pancake griddle, which has some lard or butter melted, salt ; when 
nicely browned on one side, turn on the other and brown ; add more 
butter when needed. Some prefer the bread dipped in egg first. 

GERMAN TOAST. 

Cut thick slices of bread and dip each side in milk enough to 
soften, then dip in beaten egg; put into a frying-pan with just 
enough butter to fry ; fry until brown as an omelet. Serve well 
sprinkled with white sugar. 

HAM TOAST. 

Melt in a stew-pan a small piece of butter till it is browned a 
little ; put in as much finely-minced ham as will cover a round of 
buttered toast, and add gravy enough to make moist. When quite 
hot, stir in quickly with a fork i egg. Place the mixture over the 
toast, which cut into pieces of any shape you may fancy. 

LEMON TOAST. 

Take the yolks of 3 eggs, beat them well and stir them into I 
breakfast cup milk ; cut some stale bread in slices, and soak them 
for a minute in the milk and egg, then fry to a delicate brown in 
boiling butter, squeeze over a little lemon juice and sifted sugar and 
serve very hot. 

MUSHROOMS AND TOAST. 
Peel the mushrooms, and take out the stems. Fry them over a 
quick fire. When the butter is melted take off the pan. Squeeze 



52 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

the juice of a lemon into it. Let the mushrooms fry again for some 
minutes. Add salt, pepper, spices, and a spoonful of water, in 
which a clove of garlic, having been cut into pieces, has soaked for 
^ an hour ; let it stew, When the mushrooms are done m^ake a 
thickening of yolks of eggs. Pour the mushrooms on bread fried in 
butter, and laid in a dish ready for them. 

MUSHROOMS ON TOAST. 

Put I pint mushrooms into a stew-pan, with 2 ounces butter 
rolled in flour; add i teaspoon salt, ^ teaspoon white pepper, a 
blade of mace powdered, and ]/>, teaspoon grated lemon ; stew till 
the butter is all absorbed, then add as much white roux as will 
moisten the mushrooms ; fry a slice of bread in butter, to fit the 
dish, and as soon as the mushrooms are tender serve them on the 
toast. 

OYSTERS WITH TOAST. 

Broil or fry as many oysters as you wish, and lay them on but- 
tered toast ; salt and pepper ; pour over them a cup of hot, rich 
cream ; keep them perfectly hot until eaten. 

QUAIL ON TOAST. 

Pick and clean, cut in the middle of back, fry in butter to a nice 
brown, salt and pepper; now put in an earthen or porcelain-lined 
dish, I tablespoon nice butter and the same of flour; stir on a slow 
fire until butter is dissolved ; then pour in slowly y^ glass water and 
the same quantity of wine ; salt and pepper ; put in your birds that 
are nicely fried, simmer slowly 5^ an hour ; toast some thin slices of 
bread (one toast to each bird) ; put in the dish you wish to serve, 
laying the birds on top ; pour the gravy over all ; serve very hot. 

TONGUE TOAST. 

A very nice dish is prepared from cold boiled or potted tongue. 
Slice the tongue and cut each slice into small, fine pieces, heat it in 
a pan with a little butter. To prevent burning moisten with warm 
water or clear soup. Add salt and pepper, stir into it 2 beaten eggs. 
When set arrange neatly on toast. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 53 

TOASTED CRACKERS. 

What are known as toasted crackers are an excellent accompani- 
ment for hash at breakfast and are made in this way : Split 6 butter 
crackers and soak them in water until they begin to swell ; then 
pour off the water and drain. Butter a flat baking-pan, lay the 
crackers in, crust side down, and bake lo minutes, till they turn a 
delicate brown. Place them on a warm dish, butter lightly and 
serve at once. 



WAFFLES. 



In making waffles never put sugar in the batter, as it causes 
them to be heavy and tough. They should be beaten thoroughly 
and made quickly. The batter should be very thin. Take i pint 
buttermilk, i teaspoon soda, i tablespoon melted butter, i teacup 
flour, yolks of 4 eggs, and a small pinch of salt ; beat the whites 
separately to a froth and add them the last thing. Have the waffle- 
tins well greased and very hot, pour in the batter and bake brown. 
When taken up spread with butter, and sift with sugar, if preferred. 

BREAD WAFFLES. 

Crusts and pieces can be put in a pitcher and milk poured over 
them . when needed, add more milk, and a little flour, to make the 
right consistency ; enough soda to make sweet, salt, and make waffles 
or pancakes. 

RICE WAFFLES. 

Rice waffles make a good plain dessert especially for the children. 
Mash I cup boiled rice smoothly, moistening it gradually with i cup 
lukewarm water ; stir in ^ cake compressed yeast that has been dis- 
solved in lukewarm water and 2 cups flour. Add enough water to 
make a batter rather stiffer than for cake and see that it is perfectly 
free from lumps. Let it stand in a warm place for 3 hours ; add 3 
beaten eggs, a teaspoon salt and a very little sugar, about 2 table- 
spoons, and bake in well-greased waffle-irons. Eat with butter and 
honey or silver drops. 



54 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

RICE WAFFLES, NO. 2. 

Beat together i pint milk, the yolks of 3 eggs, 2 ounces butter 
and ]/>, teacup thoroughly boiled rice, sprinkle a little salt and ^ tea- 
spoon soda into i pint flour, then sift it into the bowl containing 
the rest of the mixture. Beat thoroughly and bake in waffle-irons. 

WAFFLES. 

One pint milk, 2 eggs, i pint flour, ^/^ cup butter, i tea- 
spoon cream of tartar, ^ teaspoon soda, a pinch of salt. Bake in 
waffle-irons well heated. 

WAFFLES, NO. 2. 

If you want your waffles for tea, take i quart warm milk after 
dinner ; put in 2 eggs, beaten ; a small piece of butter, and a small cup 
of yeast. Mix with flour a little thicker than wheat pancakes. Set 
by warm stove and they will be light for tea. Baked in waffle-irons. 

WAFFLES, NO. 3. 

Two pints milk, i cup melted butter, sifted flour enough to 
make a soft batter. Add yolks of 6 eggs, afterward whites, well 
beaten ; just before baking add 4 teaspoons baking powder. 

WAFFLES, NO. 4- 

One pint buttermilk, flour enough to make a thin batter, i 
tablespoon salt, i teaspoon soda ; mix your milk, flour and salt, then 
sift the soda over the batter ; break the white of one egg in a plate 
and put the yolk in the batter ; beat in well ; now whip the white of 
the egg to a stiff froth and stir in thoroughly — do not beat it in. 
Have the waffle-iron smoking hot and grease with lard or other 
grease, which should be free from either water or salt, as both make 
the waffles stick. If the milk be very sour, use more soda to sweeten 
it. Sour batter will stick to the irons, too. 

GRAHAM WAFERS. 

Put a pinch of salt into Yz pound Graham flour ; wet it with ^ pint 
sweet cream ; mix quickly and thoroughly ; roll out as thin as possi- 
ble ; cut in strips, prick and bake in a quick oven. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 55 



SWEET WAFERS. 

One pint flour, i cup sugar, 3 eggs, i tablespoon butter ; flavor 
with lemon ; mix into a batter with a little milk to the consistency 
of sponge cake, and bake in wafer-irons. 

TEA LEMON WAFERS. 

Beat y^ pound butter to a cream, add y^ pound powdered sugar. 
Beat six eggs, until creamy, and mix Math the butter and sugar, then 
add the juice and rind of 2 lemons, with i grated nutmeg, and flour 
to make a stiff batter. Beat all together until smooth and light. 
Heat the wafer-irons over a clear fire, grease lightly with butter, put 
in enough of the batter to fill the irons, close and turn over a clear 
fire until brown. Take out, dust with powdered sugar, and roll 
around a smooth stick, remove carefully when cold. Very dainty 
little cakes. 



CHAPTKR III. 



CAKE MAKING. 



SOME RULES FOR MIXING. 

Often the young beginner in housework will try certain recipes 
with the greatest care, and yet fail again and again ; in which case 
she is very apt to condemn the recipe, or lose faith in herself. 

In making anything of the cake kind (including cookies, fried 
cakes, etc.) always begin with the shortening and sugar, creaming 
tnem into smoothness in a deep earthen bowl or new tin pan — never 
in one which is worn — and using a large spoon with a rather broad 
bowl. For wetting, water answers as well as milk in most recipes 
where baking powder is used, but should be neither very cold nor 
hot. If the former it may make the cake heavy; if the latter, it 
will scald the flour and toughen the dough ; a blood-heat is best. 

Add this to the creamed butter and sugar, stirring thoroughly ; 
then put your baking powder (and salt, if required) into the flour, 
and sift it — several times if for nice cake — into some dry dish, and 
let it stand while you beat your eggs stifT. 

Then add of each (flour and eggs) a little at a time, till you have 
a smooth creamy batter, when it is ready for the oven. If you use 
flavoring, add last of all, stirring in thoroughly, if fruit or nuts, do 
the same, dusting them Avith flour to prevent their sinking to the 
bottom in baking, but spices should be stirred in with the shorten- 
ing and sugar. 

Some good housekeepers scout at the idea that it hurts cake to 
stir it in opposite directions, but I do not agree with them. My 
experience shows that you secure a closer, firmer and more delicate 
grain by stirring constantly one way. Beat all you choose — the 
harder the better — but stir only from left to right. 

56 




HOUSEHOLD TREASURES. 



CAKE MAKING. 5/ 



CAKE ORNAMENTATION. 



A few years ago cake ornamentation was a very simple affair, but 
now it has come to be a fine art. The most exquisite designs are 
seen, but in this article we shall aim to discuss inexpensive styles 
and those that can be used by the non-professional. 

Cut from writing paper (unruled) flowers and leaves. Dip them 
in white of egg not frothed, and then sprinkle with granulated sugar. 
It is best to use a sifter. Allow to dry and then arrange on top of 
cake. Very pretty. 

Ice your cake on top and sides, and when nearly diy stick in 
blanched almonds with points upwards, and large raisins, and lay here 
and there thin strips of fig. This is called the rustic cake, and is 
very beautiful. 

A cake iced with either white or pink icing and English walnuts 
placed here and there on top is a pretty style. Slices of orange 
also look well. 

Try covering the top layer with a thin coat of icing and then 
sprinkling it with crushed rock candy, pink and white. 

A bunch of crystallized grapes looks charming, laid on top of a 
cake. The grapes are to be dipped in frothed white of egg and then 
dusted with sugar and allowed to dry. 

A small bouquet of choice cut flowers can be placed in the centre 
of a cake, the ends being concealed in the open space. 

Nothing can be prettier than to have a cake iced top and sides 
and covered thickly with cocoanut prepared on a revolving grater. 
It resembles fine curly shavings. No words can convey to you an 
idea of the delicate beauty of this design. 

One of the prettiest center pieces for a " company supper " is 
this : Bake 24 small cakes in muffin-rings. Ice half of them white 
and half pink. Arrange them alternately on a large glass stand in 
the form of a pyramid. 

ALMOND CAKES. 

Four cups sifted flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 2 cups pow- 
dered sugar, I cup butter, 10 eggs (the }'olks and whites whipped 



58 CAKE MAKING. 

separately, the yolks strained), ^ pound sweet almonds blanched 
and pounded, i tablespoon orange-flower water, nutmeg. Beat but- 
ter and sugar until they are like whipped cream, add the strained 
yolks, rub the baking powder into the flour and add alternately 
with the whites, then the almond paste in which the nutmeg and 
orange-flower water have been mixed ; beat well and bake as 
" snowballs " in small, round, rather deep pans, with straight sides ; 
when done cover with almond frosting. Very rich. 

ALMOND CAKE, NO. 2. 

One-half cup butter, 2 cups sugar, whites of 5 ^ggs, i cup 
milk, 3 cups flour, 3 even teaspoons baking powder. Bake in layers. 

Filling. — Make a boiled icing. Pour out a part of it on a cup of 
blanched and chopped almond meats ; use the remainder for frosting 
the top and sides of the cake, and place split almond meats over the 
top. 

ALMOND CAKE, NO. 3. 

One cup butter, i_^ cups sugar, 3 eggs, ^ cup milk, 3 teaspoons 
baking powder, about 2 cups flour ; blanch i pound almonds, lay 
aside enough to cover the top of the cake when they are cut in 
halves, chop the rest and put them into the cake. After the cake is 
in the tin lay the split ones over the top. They will rise and 
brown as the cake bakes. This is delicious. 

ALMOND CREAM CAKE. 

On beaten whites of 10 eggs sift i}^ goblets pulverized sugar, 
and I goblet flour through which has been stirred a heaping teaspoon 
cream of tartar ; stir very gently and do not beat it ; bake in jelly-pans. 

For cream. — Take ^ pint sweet cream, yolks of 3 eggs, i tablespoon 
pulverized sugar, i teaspoon corn-starch ; dissolve starch smoothly 
with a little milk, beat yolks and sugar together with this, boil the 
cream, and stir these ingredients in as for any cream-cake filling, 
only make a little thicker; blanch and chop fine y^, pound almonds 
and stir into the cream. Put together like jelly cake while icing is 
soft, and stick in J^ pound almonds split in two. 



CAKE MAKING. 59 

ADELAIDE CAKE. 

One cup butter, i^< cups sugar, 4 eggs, I pint flour, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, i cup dried stoned cherries, yi cup milk, i teaspoon 
vanilla ; mix smoothly into a firm batter by beating the sugar, 
butter and eggs together, and adding the flour with the baking 
powder and the other ingredients. Bake about 40 minutes. 

AMBROSIA CAKE. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, j^ cup milk, 3 cups flour, 4 eggs 
beaten separately, i teaspoon soda, and 2 of cream of tartar ; bake in 
layers. 

Filling. — Mix together, with i beaten e^^, ^ pint whipped cream, 
I full cup grated cocoanut, ^ cup sugar, juice of i orange. Put 
this preparation between the layers and on top of the cake. 

APPLE CAKE. 

Two eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, i^ cups sugar, 
scant ^ cup butter, ^ cup milk, 3 cups flour, i teaspoon cream of 
tartar sifted in the flour, Y^ teaspoon soda in the milk. Bake in 
jelly-tins. 

Dressing for Same. — Three good-sized sour apples grated, the 
juice and grated rind of i lemon, i &%g beaten, i cup sugar. Cook 
all together 3 minutes and spread between the layers. ■ 

angels' food. 

Take the whites of 11 eggs, i^ tumblers granulated sugar, i 
tumbler flour, i teaspoon vanilla, and i teaspoon cream of tartar ; 
sift the flour 4 times, then add the cream of tartar, and sift again ; 
but have the right measure before putting in the cream of tartar. 
Sift the sugar and measure. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth on a large 
platter; on the same platter add the sugar lightly, then the flour 
very gently, then the vanilla ; do not stop beating until you put it 
in the pan to bake ; bake 40 minutes in a very moderate oven, try 
with a straw, and if too soft, let it remain a few minutes longer. 
Turn the pan upside down to cool, and when cold, take out by 
loosening around the sides with a knife. 



6o 



CAKE MAKING. 



Pan for Baking Angel Cake. — The pan is a tubed pudding-pan, 
II inches in diameter on top, 8^ inches on bottom; height, 4^ 
inches. Three legs, equal distances apart, to project i^ inches 
above top of pan and riveted to the outside. Tube 5 1-8 inches 
long. Use this dish for no other purpose. 



BRIDE CAKE. 

Take i^ pounds butter, i-)^ pounds sugar (half New Orleans 
sugar), 2 pounds eggs well beaten, 4 pounds raisins seeded and 
chopped, 5 pounds English currants, thoroughly cleaned, 2 pounds 
citron shaved fine, 2 pounds sifted flour, 2 nutmegs, and an equal 

quantity of mace, and i gill 
alcohol, in which are put 15 
drops oil of lemon. Cut the 
butter in pieces and put it where 
it will soften; stir it to a cream, 
then add the sugar and work till 
white ; next beat the yolks of 
the eggs, and add them to the 
sugar and butter ; have the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth 
and add them to the mixture, 
then the spices and flour, and 
last of all the fruit except the 
citron, which is to be put in in 
about 3 layers, i an inch from the bottom, i an inch from the top, 
and I between ; smooth the top of the cake by putting on a spoon 
of water. Bake 3 or 4 hours. 




---^^^^^^^^^S::'^=^^^i:^^^^st^^^ 



MOLLIE S BRIDE CAKE. 



One pound each sugar, butter and flour, 2 pounds each raisins, 
currants, citron, i wine-glass each wine and brandy, 12 eggs, the 
grated rind and juice of i lemon, 2 teaspoons each cinnamon, cloves 
and allspice, i teaspoon each nutmeg and soda, dissolve soda in a 
teaspoon boiling water. Bake slowly 4 hours. 



CAKE MAKING. 6l 



BREAD CAKE. 



Four cups light dough, 2 cups sugar, i cup butter, 3 eggs, i cup 
raisins, a Httle nutmeg, 3^ teaspoon cloves, the same of cinnamon, 
y^ teaspoon soda, dissolved in hot water. Let it rise a short time 
before baking, then put in the raisins and bake in a very slow oven. 

BREAD CAKE, NO. 2. 

One cup dough, ^ cup butter, i cup sugar, i ^%^, ^ teaspoon 
soda, spice to taste. 

BLACK CAKE. 

Two cups brown sugar, i cup butter, i cup molasses, i cup sour 
milk, in which dissolve i teaspoon soda, the yolks of 8 eggs, 4 cups 
browned flour, and spice to your taste. 

The whites of the eggs can be used in making White Cake. 

BRIDGEPORT CAKE. 

One cup butter, 2 cups brown sugar, i cup sour milk, 3}^ cups 
flour, 4 eggs, I teaspoon saleratus, i cup raisins, spices to taste. 

BUTTERNUT CAKE. 

Take i^ cups sugar, 3^ cup butter, 2 cups flour, ^ cup milk 
I cup meats of nuts, whites of 4 eggs, and 2 teaspoons baking 
powder. 

CARAMEL CAKE. 

One cup butter and 2 of sugar well mixed, whites of 8 egga 
beaten to a stiff froth, y^ cup milk, 314^ cups flour, 2 heaping 
teaspoons baking powder. Flavor to suit the taste and bake in a 
moderately quick oven. This will make 4 thick layers. Let it get 
almost cold before the caramel is added. 

Caramel. — Two very full cups brown sugar, a lump of butter 
little larger than a walnut, and enough cream or milk to soften well 
the entire amount. Place on the stove in a tin vessel, let boil with- 
out stirring until it is quite stiff when tried in cold water. Allow to 



62 CAKE MAKING. 

get nearly cold before spreading on the cake. There will be enough 
caramel to spread between the layers and also on top of the cake. 

CARAMEL CAKE, NO. 2. 

Three cups sugar, i]^ cups butter, i cup milk, 4^^ cups flour, 5 
eggs, I small teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar. 

Caramel for filling. — One and one-half cup brown sugar, ^< cup 
milk, I cup molasses, I teaspoon butter, I tablespoon flour, 2 
tablespoons cold water. Boil this mixture 5 minutes, add ^ cake 
Baker's chocolate (grated), boil until it is the consistency of rich cus- 
tard. Add a pinch of soda, stir well, and remove from fire. When 
cold, flavor with a large teaspoon vanilla, and spread between the 
layers of cake, which should be baked as for jelly-cake. Cover the 
top with the same, and set in an open sunny window to dry. The 
above quantity will make two large cakes. 

CARAMEL CAKE, NO. 3. 
One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, i scant cup milk, i^ cups flour, i 
cup corn-starch, whites of 7 eggs, 3 teaspoons baking powder in 
the flour ; bake in a long pan. Take ^ pound brown sugar, scant 
y^ pound chocolate, ^ cup milk, butter size of an egg, 2 teaspoons 
vanilla ; mix thoroughly and cook as syrup until stiff enough to 
spread ; spread on cake and set in the oven to dry. 

CHARLOTTE CACHEE. 
One thick loaf of sponge or plain cup cake, 2 kinds fruit-jelly, 
tart and sweet, whites of 5 eggs, i heaping cup powdered sugar, 
juice of I lemon. Cut the cake into horizontal slices of uniform 
width ; spread each with jelly — first the tart, then the sweet — and fit 
into their former places ; ice thickly with a frosting made of the 
whites, sugar and lemon-juice ; set in a sunny window or slow oven, 
to harden. The former is the better plan. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 
One-half cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 4 eggs, i cup milk, 2 
teaspoons cream of tartar, i teaspoon soda, I teaspoon vanilla. 
'Vke in layers. 



CAKE MAKING. 



63 



Put together with chocolate frosting, frosting top and sides. 
Any layer cake can be put together in the same way. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE, NO. 2. 

Chocolate Cake is prettier made in layers with the whites of eggs 
only, the contrast between the white and chocolate being very 
pretty. The following recipe though not new is an excellent one ; 

Two cups sugar, i cup butter, i cup milk, 3 cups flour, whites of 
4 eggs, I teaspoon cream of tartar, ^ teaspoon soda. Bake in layers 
and spread between each the following frosting : Yolks of 2 eggs 
beaten and added to ^ cup milk, and i^ cups sugar. Boil till as 
thick as molasses and then add ^ cake Baker's chocolate dissolved 
or grated. Frost the top of the cake with white frosting and 
decorate with a chocolate color, using a pastry bag. A very pretty, 
appropriate and easily made decoration is produced by imitating the 
cocoa pods, which may be described as a pointed oval. From the 
beans growing inside, chocolate is made. The border may be made 
of these by placing the points towards the centre, and if desired a 
second row may be made with the points towards the circumference. 
A large chocolate T made with 3 of the pods makes a simple center- 
piece quite in keeping with the general idea. 

MARBLED CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 cups flour, 4 well-beaten eggs, i 
cup milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder ; take out i cup of this batter 
and mix with 4 tablespoons chocolate dissolved with a little cream ; 
cover the bottom of the pan with the white batter and drop upon it 
in places a spoonful of the chocolate, forming rings, then another 
iayer of the batter, and so on until all is used. Bake in a moderate 
oven. 

CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS. 

Two and one-half cups water, 2 cups flour, i cup butter, and 5 
eggs. Boil the butter and water together ; 'stir in the flour while 
boiling ; after it is cool add the eggs well beaten. Put a large 
spoonful in muffin rings, and bake 20 minutes in a hot oven. When 



64 CAKE MAKING. 

baked and cold make an opening in the side and put in the cream, 
which must also be cold. Make the cream as follow;; : Break, dis- 
solve, and mix smoothly i ounce chocolate with 3 tablespoons 
warm water in a bowl ; set over a boiling tea-kettle, add gradually i 
cup milk and leave it to scald ; beat i egg and add to it j4 cup 
sugar, and 2 tablespoons corn-starch ; mix well and stir into the 
scalded milk, then put the whole into the bowl over the boiling 
water, and stir till it is much thicker than boiled custard; add a 
very little salt and j4 teaspoon vanilla ; after filling the cakes with 
the custard, frost with hot icing and 2 ounces of chocolate dissolved 
in it. Frost the top only. 

CINNAMON CAKE. 

Whites of 2 eggs, i cup sugar, i cup milk, }4 cup butter, i^ 
cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. When baked spread the top 
and sides with icing made of the yolks of 2 eggs, ^ cup brown 
sugar, I teaspoon cinnamon. 

CITRON CAKE. 

One cup butter and 2 of white sugar, beaten to a cream ; 4 eggs, 
whites and yolks beaten separately ; 3 cups sifted flour, i cup milk, 
I teaspoon cream of tartar sifted in the flour, j4 teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in the milk, }i pound citron cut in very thin pieces, well 
dredged with flour and added at the last ; flavor with lemon or rose. 

CLOVE CAKE. 

One pound brown sugar, i pound flour, i pound raisins, 3^ pound 
butter, I cup milk, 2 large teaspoons baking powder stirred well in 
to the flour, i tablespoon each of cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg, 
4 eggs ; chop the raisins. For less quantity divide proportionately. 

CONFECTIONERY CAKE. 

One coffeecup sugar, ^^ coffeecup butter, 2 coffeecups flour, i 
coffeecup milk, whites of 5 eggs, 3 teaspoons baking powder. Flavor 
with vanilla. Take i tablespoon of this cake, add ^j cup each of 



CAKE MAKING. 65 

chopped raisins, citron, flour, and molasses, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 
y^ teaspoon cloves, i wineglass brandy. Bake in 3 layers, 2 light 
and I dark. Put together with soft frosting. 

COCOANUT CAKE (with I Q^^. 

One cup granulated sugar, piece of butter the size of a large ^^^, 
I cup milk, 2 large cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, i 
Q^^. Bake in layers ; grate a fresh cocoanut and mix with the 
frosting, for a filling, and sprinkle some of the cocoanut over the top. 

COCOANUT CAKE, NO. 2. 

One cup butter, 3 cups sugar, whites of 6 eggs. 4)^ cups sifted 
flour, 2^ teaspoons baking powder, i grated cocoanut, and i cup 
milk. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream, add the whites of the 
eggs, then the milk ; mix the baking powder with the flour by sift- 
ing. After all are mixed together put in the cocoanut, mixing 
thoroughly, and bake immediately. This cake will keep for some 
time, retaining its freshness. 

COCOANUT CREAM CAKE. 

Two beaten eggs, i cup sugar rolled fine, ^ cup butter, ^ cup 
milk, 2 cups flour sifted with 2 teaspoons baking powder. Bake in 
layers and put together with the following cream. 

Cream for Filling. — Put i cup milk into a dish and set into a 
kettle of hot water. Mix together i egg, ^ cup sugar, i tablespoon 
corn-starch ; stir into the milk when it boils. When thick add ^ 
cup desiccated cocoanut. Frost the top and sprinkle with dry 
cocoanut. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cup butter, i cup sugar, 2 eggs, ^ cup cold cofTee, 5^ cup 
molasses, 2 cups flour, i teaspoon soda dissolved in coffee. 

COFFEE CAKE, NO 2. 

Take 2 eggs. Veil beaten, yi cup butter, ^ cup sugar, i cup 
molasses, i cup strong, cold coffee, i teaspoon cinnamon, i teaspoon 



66 CAKE MAKING. 

cloves, I teaspoon allspice, I teaspoon soda stirred into the molasses, 
I cup raisins, flour to make of the consistency of pound cake. 

COFFEE CAKE, NO. 3. 

One cup each of butter, sugar, molasses and strong coffee, 5 
cups flour, I pound raisins, I teaspoon each of soda, cinnamon and 
allspice, ^^ teaspoon nutmeg, 3 eggs (it can be made with I or 2). 
Sift the soda in the molasses. Excellent. 

CORN-STARCH CAKE. 

Take whites of 3 eggs, I cup white sugar, y^ cup butter, }4, cup 
milk, I cup flour, I cup corn-starch, I teaspoon soda and 2 of cream 
of tartar; flavor with lemon or vanilla. 

CORN-STARCH CAKE, NO. 2. 

Two cups pulverized sugar, 3^ cup butter, stirred to a cream ; i cup 
milk, the whites of 7 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 2 cups flour, i cup 
corn-starch and 2 teaspoons baking powder. Flavor with lemon or 
orange. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Three eggs, i cup sugar, i cup flour, i teaspoon baking powder, 
}4 cup sweet cream. Bake like jelly cake. Put i cup pulverized 
white sugar into ^ cup very thick sweet cream, and spread between 
the cakes ; flavor both the cake and cream to suit taste. This is 
delicious. 

CREAM CAKE, NO. 2. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, whites of 2 eggs, 3j^ cups flour, i 
cup milk, I teaspoon soda, i teaspoon cream of tartar. Bake in 
layers. 

For the Cream. — One pint milk, sweetened to taste, yolks of 3 
eggs ; thicken with flour to the consistency of custard, flavor with 
lemon. Frost the top with boiled icing. 



CAKE MAKING. 



67 



SOUR CREAM CAKE. 



One egg, j4 cup sugar, j4 cup sour cream, or rich buttermilk, ^ 
teaspoon soda dissolved in the cream, i cup sifted flour ; flavor to 
taste, and frost with icing without eggs. 

(See Icings.) Excellent cheap cake. 



CHRISTMAS CAKE, 

Take 5 pounds flour, mix with it a desseii;':.poon salt, rub in ^ 
pound butter and i pound lard. Put in ^ pint good fresh brewers* 
yeast, and knead as for common 
bread. If there is any dif^culty 
about the yeast, baking powder 
may be used, allowing a heaped 
teaspoon ordinary baking powder 
for every pound of material. If 
yeast is used, let the dough rise 
before adding the other ingre- 
dients. Mix in 3 pounds cur- 
rants, i}4 pounds moist sugar, a 
whole nutmeg, }^ pound candied 
lemon peel finely minced, i table- 
spoon brandy, and 4 eggs, well 
beaten. Butter the mold and bake in moderate oven for about 2 
hours. 




CHRISTMAS CAKE. 



RICH CUP CAKE. 



Five cups flour, 2}4 cups sugar, i}4 cups butter, i cup milk, 6 
eggs, i' teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar; flavor with 
lemon or vanilla. 



PLAIN CUP CAKE. 



Two eggs, 2 cups flour, i cup sugar, }4 cup butter, ^ cup milk, 
2 teaspoons baking powder, i teaspoon vanilla. 



68 CAKE MAKING. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

One and one-half cups granulated sugar, i cup butter, ^ cup 
milk, whites of 6 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 3 even cups flour, 3 tea- 
spoons baking powder put in the flour and mixed ; stir butter and 
sugar well together, to them add the milk, then put in the flour, and 
last add the beaten eggs ; flavor with lemon. Stir the whole mix- 
ture well. 

DELICATE CAKE, NO. 2. 

One cup butter 2 cups sugar, I cup milk, whites of 6 eggs, 3 
cups flour, I teaspoon cream of tartar, ^ teaspoon soda. 

Yellow cake made in the same way using the yolks and ^ cup 
butter. 

DELICATE CAKE, NO. 3. 

One and one-half cups sugar, ^ cup butter, l cup milk, 3 tea- 
spoons baking powder, 2 cups flour, whites of 5 eggs well beaten. 
Bake I hour in a moderate oven. 

DELICIOUS CAKE. 

Two cups white sugar, i cup butter, I cup milk, 3 eggs, I tea- 
spoon soda, I teaspoon cream of tartar, 3 cups sifted flour. Stir 
butter and sugar together, then add the beaten yolks of the eggs, 
then the beaten whites ; dissolve the soda in the milk, rub the 
'cream of tartar into the flour and add ; flavor with extract of bitter 
almond. 

DROP CAKE. 

One cup powdered sugar, I cup butter, 2 cups flour, 3 eggs, 
juice and rind of I lemon. Mix butter and sugar to a cream, add 
the well-beaten eggs, then the flour and lastly the lemon. Drop on 
buttered paper and bake in a quick oven. 

DOUGH CAKE. 

Two cups light dough, 2 cups sugar, I cup butter, ^ cup milk, 2 
eggs, I^ cups flour, i teaspoon soda, I cup raisins ; flavor with nut- 
meg and cinnamon. 



CAKE MAKING. 69 

DOVER CAKE. 

Rub to a cream I cup butter and 2 cups sugar; add 6 eggs, 2 at a 
time, beating 5 minutes between each addition, I cup milk, lyi 
pints flour, sifted with 2 teaspoons baking powder ; season with I 
teaspoon each of extract cinnamon and orange ; bake in rather hot 
oven 40 minutes. 

DUNDEE CAKE. 

Whip to a cream l]4 cups butter and the same amount of sugar; 
add 8 eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes between each addition, 
],4 cup cream or milk, lyi pints flour, sifted with 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, Yz lemon peel cut in thin slices, I cup washed, dried and 
picked currants, I^ cups sultana raisins, I teaspoon each extract 
nutmeg, cloves and vanilla ; mix into a firm batter, pour into a shal- 
low, square cake-pan ; chop I cup almonds coarsely and sprinkle 
over the top ; then bake I hour in a moderate oven. 

EGOLESS DRIED APPLE CAKE. 

Two cups dried apples, chopped fine and soaked in water ovet 
night, then cook in i cup molasses until soft ; add I cup each of 
butter, sugar and sour milk, 2 teaspoons soda, I teaspoon each of 
cinnamon, cloves and lemon extract, I nutmeg. A cup of raisins 
may be added. Bake in a greased cake-dish in a moderate oven. 
Flour for stiff batter. 

EGGLESS CAKE. 

One cup butter, 3 cups sugar, i pint sour milk or cream, 3 cups 
flour, I pound raisins, i teaspoon saleratus ; spice to taste. 

EGGLESS CAKE, NO. 2. 

One and one-half cups sugar, i cup sour milk, 3 level cups flour, 
^ cup butter, i teaspoon soda, ^ teaspoon cinnamon, ^ teaspoon 
grated nutmeg, and i cup chopped raisins. 



70 CAKE MAKING, 

ELECTION CAKE. 

Beat lyi cups butter a»d 2 cups sugar to a white, light cream; 
add 3 eggs, beating a httle longer, i^j pints flour sifted with 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, 2 cups raisins, stoned, i cup currants well 
cleaned, ^ cup chopped citron, ^ a lemon peel, chopped, }i cup 
almonds, blanched and cut into shreds, i teaspoon each of extract of 
vanilla and bitter almonds, i cup milk ; mix into a consistent batter, 
put into a paper-lined tin and bake in a moderate, steady oven i^ 
hours. 

ENGLISH WALNUT CAKE. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 cups flour, i cup milk, whites of 
7 ^ggs, and yolks of 3, i teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, 
I pint walnut meats rolled and dredged with flour ; beat the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Wash and drain i pound currants, chop coarsely i pound raisins, 
slice j4 pound citron ; beat together 5 eggs and 2 cups brown sugar ; 
add I cup butter, i cup molasses, }4 cup sour milk, i teaspoon soda, 
spices to taste, 6 cups flour ; add fruit with the flour. Will keep 
a year. 

FRUIT CAKE, NO. 2. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3^ cups flour, i cup molasses, i 
cup cream, 4 eggs, i pound raisins, citrons and currants according to 
taste, I teaspoon saleratus, spice to taste. Warranted to keep a year. 

FRUIT CAKE, NO. 3. 

One pound sugar, I pound butter, I pound flour, 8 eggs, 2 pounds 
raisins, I pound currants, }{ pound citron, I tablespoon molasses, I 
cup sour milk, I teaspoon soda, and spices of all kinds. Bake 2 
hours in a moderate oven. 



CAKE MAKING. 7I 

FRUIT CAKE, NO. 4. 

Nine eggs, I pound sugar, I pound butter, a little more than I 
pound sifted flour, ^ of it slightly browned to highten the color of 
the cake, 2 pounds seeded raisins, I pound Zante currants, ^ pound 
citron, I lemon, the rind to be grated, ^ cup dark molasses, to give 
color, 2 wine-glasses brandy, I teaspoon soda, nutmeg, cinnamon and 
cloves to taste. Sugar and butter to be beaten to a cream, after- 
ward the eggs thoroughly beaten, etc. 

FRUIT CAKE, NO. 5. 

One cup butter, I cup sugar, yi pint New Orleans molasses, 2 
eggs, I cup sour milk, I teaspoon soda, I pound flour, I pound raisins, 
I^ pounds currants, the grated pe^ of a lemon, I teaspoon cloves, 

1 of allspice and 2 of cinnamon. Reserve a handful of flour to thor- 
oughly flour the fruit and add it last. Bake in a loaf i hour. 

FRUIT CAKE, NO, 6. 
One pound sugar, l):( pounds flour (sift the 5-4 pound of flour in 
the fruit), 10 eggs, 4 pounds raisins, 2 pounds currants, I pound 
citron, I cup molasses, I wine-glass brandy, and spice to taste. 

BLACK FRUIT CAKE. 

Two pounds raisins, I pound currants, ^ pound citron, 4 cups 
sugar, 2 cups butter, I cup molasses, 8 eggs, 2 teaspoons soda, 5 cups 
flour, I wine-glass brandy, spice to taste. Half of this receipt makes 

2 small loaves. 

FRUIT CAKE FROM DOUGH. 

Two cups sugar, I cup butter, i pint dough, 2 eggs, I teaspoon 
soda, as much fruit as you wish, spices to suit the taste ; use flour 
enough to make as stiff as common fruit cake ; set in a warm place 
to rise. When light bake in a moderate oven. 

FRUIT AND NUT CAKE. 

Four cups flour, 2 cups sugar, I cup butter, 6 eggs, whites and 
yolks separated, I cup cold water, I coffee-cup hickory-nut kernels. 



72 CAKE MAKING. 

free from shells and very sweet and dry, ^ pound raisins, seeded, 
chopped and dredged with fiour, I teaspoon soda, dissolved in hot 
water, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, sifted in the flour, I teaspoon 
mixed nutmeg and cinnamon. Rub butter and sugar together to a 
smooth cream ; put in the yolks, then the water, spice, soda ; next 
the whites and flour. The fruit and nuts, stirred together and 
dredged, should go in last. Mix thoroughly and bake in 2 loaves. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

Whites of lo eggs, i full cup butter, i cup milk, 3 cups sugar, 4 
cups flour, I teaspoon cream of tartar, y^ teaspoon soda, I wine-glass 
brandy ; cream the butter and sugar and add the brandy ; add a few 
stoned raisins and some citron sliced thin. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE, NO. 2. 

Two cups white sugar beaten to a cream with I cup butter, I cup 
milk, 2^ cups flour, whites of 7 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Mix thoroughly and add I pound each of sliced citron, raisins, 
blanched almonds and figs. 

FIG CAKE. 

One cup sugar and 2 eggs well beaten, I teaspoon baking powder 
sifted with l cup flour; stir in )j^ cup boiling water. Bake either in 
square tins or in layers. Beat the white of an &^^ with pulverized 
sugar to make a thick frosting, and add I dozen raisins, 5 figs, a little 
citron, 3 slices lemon, chopped fine. Spread and put together, if 
baked in layers, or roll up while hot if square. 

FIG CAKE, NO. 2. 

A large cup butter, 2^ cups sugar, I cup milk, 3 pints sifted 
flour, with 3 teaspoons baking powder, the whites of 16 eggs, I^ 
pounds figs cut into strips like citron and w^ell floured. 

FIG CAKE, NO. 3. 

Three cups sugar, I cup each of butter and milk, 4 cups flour, 2 
teaspoons baking powder, 12 beaten eggs ; bake in layers. Take i 



CAKE MAKING. 73 

pound figs, boil till smooth and put between each layer with or with- 
out frosting. Frost the top. 

FIG POUND CAKE. 

Brown sugar, chopped figs, raisins and flour, each I pound, butter 
^ pound, sour milk or cream ^ pint, ^ teaspoon soda, 7 eggs and 

1 nutmeg. 

FEATHER CAKE. 

Beat to a cream Yz cup butter ; add to it 2 cups sugar and beat 
well together ; I cup milk with I teaspoon soda dissolved in it ; beat 
well together, then add i cup sifted flour with 2 teaspoons cream of 
tartar previously rubbed into it ; add next the well-beaten yolks of 
3 eggs, beat the whites separately until stiff, add them and then 2 
more cups flour; beat well between each successive addition; butter 

2 middle-sized tins, put in the cake and bake for 20 minutes or yi 
an hour in a moderate oven, 

FEATHER CAKE, NO. 2. 

One cup white sugar, i teaspoon melted butter, i Q^^, Yi cup 
milk, 2 even cups sifted flour, 2 even teaspoons cream of tartar, i 
of soda ; flavor with lemon ; sift cream of tartar and soda into the 
flour. You will be surprised when you come to make this cake, it is 
so delicious. 

gentleman's FAVORITE. 

Seven eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 2 cups sugar and 
^ cup butter worked to a cream, i tablespoon water, 2 teaspoons, 
level full, baking powder, 2 cups flour, ^ teaspoon salt ; bake in 
jelly-cake tins. 

Jelly for same. — One Q^%, i cup sugar, 3 grated apples without 
the peelings, I lemon ; stir till it thickens. Cool before using. 

GOLD CAKE. 

The yolks of 8 eggs, 2 cups sugar, i cup butter, y^ cup mifk. 

3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder; flavor with orange extract. 



74 CAKE MAKING. 

GOLD CAKE, NO. 2. 

One-half cup butter, i cup sugar, i^^ cups sifted flour, ^ cup 
milk, V/z teaspoons baking powder, yolks of 4 eggs ; flavor with 
lemon ; beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the milk 
and flour, then the flavoring, and lastly the beaten yolks of the eggs. 

A nice silver cake can be made as above by using the whites of 
the eggs and flavoring with vanilla. 

groom's cake. 

Ten eggs beaten separately, I pound each of butter, white sugar 
and flour, 2 pounds almonds, blanched and chopped fine, i pound 
seeded raisins, ^2 pound citron shaved fine ; beat the butter to a 
cream, add the sugar gradually, then the well-beaten yolks; stir all 
till very light, then add the chopped almonds ; beat the whites stiff 
and add gently with the flour; take a little more flour and sprinkle 
over the raisins and citron, then put in the cake-pan, first a layer of 
cake batter, then a layer of raisins and citron, then cake, and so on 
until all is used, finishing off with a layer of cake. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven 2 hours. 

GINGER DROP CAKE. 

One cup molasses, i cup sugar, i €:gg, 7^ cup shortening, i cup 
boiling water, 2 teaspoons soda, flour to make a soft battefj a little 
lit and ginger. 

GINGER POUND CAKE. 

Six cups flour, 2 cups each of butter, brown sugar and molasses, 
8 eggs, I tablespoon each of cinnamon, ginger and soda, and 2 nut- 
megs ; dissolve the soda in a cup of sour milk. In baking, take par- 
ticular pains not to let the cake scorch, for gingerbread is of all cakes 
the easiest to burn. Line the pans with greased paper, and put 
brown paper over the top to prevent the crust forming too quickly. 

GINGER POUND CAKE, NO. 2. 

Three cups flour, I cup molasses, i cup buttermilk, y^ cup 
sugar, Yz cup butter, 2 teaspoons saleratus, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 
I teaspoon ginger and 2 eggs. 



CAKE MAKING. 75 

DELICIOUS GINGERBREAD. 

One cup molasses, I scant cup butter, 2 cups sugar, i cup sour 
milk, 4 eggs, 3 cups flour, i tablespoon ginger, i teaspoon soda. 

GINGERBREAD, NO. 2. 

One cup each of molasses, sugar, and milk, y^ cup butter, 5 cups 
sifted flour, i tablespoon ginger, ]/> teaspoon soda. Melt the butter 
in molasses and sugar ; while warm, add the milk, with soda and 
flour ; I tablespoon vinegar is an improvement, especially if maple 
sugar or syrup is used. Bake in long pie-tins. Don't fill the cups 
of flour more than level, or it will be too thick. 

GINGERBREAD, NO 3. 

One cup each of butter, brown sugar, sour milk and molasses, 3 
cups flour, 2 eggs, 2 heaping teaspoons ginger, 2 even teaspoons soda. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

One coffeecup each of sugar, molasses, and butter, 4 cups flour, 
I cup sour milk, 2 large teaspoons ginger, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, ^ 
teaspoon cloves, I teaspoon saleratus dissolved in the sour milk; 
stoned raisins may be added. Bake in sponge-cake tins. 

GINGER CUP CAKE. 

Mix 2 cups powdered sugar with 2 cups warmed butter ; add 3 
well-beaten eggs, I cup molasses, 4 heaping cups flour, I tablespoon 
fresh-ground ginger, I teaspoon dissolved saleratus ; mix thoroughly 
and pour into buttered molds or patty-pans. Bake in a moderate 
oven. 

GINGER DROPS. 

One-half cup sugar, I cup molasses, ^ cup butter, I teaspoon 
each of cinnamon, ginger and cloves, 2 teaspoons soda in i cup boiling 
water, 23^ cups flour; add 2 well-beaten eggs the last thing before 
baking. Bake in gem-tins or as a common gingerbread. It may be 
eaten as dessert with sauce. 



76 CAKE MAKING. 



GINGERBREAD LOAF. 

One cup molasses, ^ cup butter, 1/2 cup boiling water, i teaspoon 
ginger, i teaspoon soda; pour the water on to the butter; when cool 
add the other ingredients, and flour enough to roll. When baked, 
wet the top with molasses and water and sprinkle with sugar. 

ALUM GINGERBREAD. 

One pint molasses, i teacup melted lard, I tablespoon ginger, i 
teaspoon salt, i teacup boiling water ; in half the water dissolve I 
tablespoon pulverized alum, and in the other half i heaping table- 
spoon soda; stir in just flour enough to knead; roll about ^ inch 
thick ; cut in oblong cards, and bake in a tolerably quick oven. 

EXCELLENT GINGERBREAD. 

Take i cup each of sugar, butter. West India molasses, and sour 
milk or buttermilk, 2 eggs, I tablespoon ginger, i teaspoon cin- 
namon, and I of soda, dissolved in hot water. Take flour enough to 
make a good batter, say 4 or 5 cups, but do not make it too thick ; 
stir the spices, sugar, butter and molasses together, keeping the mix- 
ture slightly warmed ; then add the milk, then the eggs, beaten their 
lightest, then the soda, and then the flour, last. Beat it long and 
well, and bake in a large buttered pan ; or, if for cakes, in patty- 
pans. If you want to add raisins, dredge them with flour, and put 
them in the last thing. 

GRAHAM CUP CAKE. 

Rub to'a light cream ^ cup butter and i cup sugar; add 2 
beaten eggs, ^ cup cream, 2 cups Graham flour, i heaping teaspoon 
baking powder, i teaspoon extract lemon ; mix into a moderately 
thin batter ; bake in well-greased cups or mufifin-pans, in a moderate 
oven. 

HANCOCK CAKE. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 cups flour, i cup milk, 6 eggs, i 
teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar. 



CAKE MAKING. 77 

HICKORY-NUT CAKE. 

A quart of nuts carefully cracked and picked, and making then 
about a full coffee cup ; 3 eggs, ^ cup butter, 1^ cups sugar, i cup 
milk and 3 cups flour is the material needed to make the cake, 
which should be baked in a moderate oven until a straw would 
pierce through the thickest portion and come out clean. Cream the 
sugar and butter by beating with a silver fork ; beat the yolks and 
whites of the eggs separately, the latter stiff enough to cut ; add the 
milk to the butter and sugar, then stir in the eggs, then the flour, 
well sifted, and lastly the nuts; mix quickly, pour into a large cake 
dish, so that the dough is only an inch or a little over from the bot- 
tom, and place immediately in the oven. Each ingredient must be 
mixed thoroughly before another one is added. If prepared flour is 
not used, add to the plain flour before sifting a heaping teaspoon of 
baking powder. 

HICKORY-NUT CAKE, NO. 2. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 cups flour, 6 eggs, }4 cup milk, 
j4 teaspoon soda, i teaspoon cream of tartar, ij^ pints nutmeats. 

HICKORY-NUT CAKE, NO. 3. 

Two cups white sugar, j4 cup butter, 3 cups flour, ^^ cup milk, 
j4 teaspoon soda dissolved in the milk, I teaspoon cream of tartar put 
into the flour, the whites of 8 eggs. Just before baking add 2 cups 
hickory-nut meats. 

HICKORY-NUT CAKE, NO. 4. 

One and one-half cups sugar, ^ cup butter, ^^^ cup milk, 2 cups 
flour with 2 teaspoons baking powder, whites of 4 eggs beaten 
thoroughly ; bake in sheets. 

Icing and Filling. — Whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff, 3 large table- 
spoons white sugar, i cup chopped nutmeats ; flavor to suit taste 
with extract of orange, almond or lemon. 

HICKORY-NUT DROP CAKE. 

Whites of 6 eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; add i pound rolled 
sugar, I cup hickory-nut meats, i teaspoon baking powder, with 



78 CAKE MAKING. 

flour to Stiffen so as to drop. Drop by spoons on a buttered tin 
and bake in a quick oven. 

HUCKLEBERRY CAKE. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 cups flour, 5 eggs, i cup milk, 
2 teaspoons baking powder, i teaspoon nutmeg, and the same of 
cinnamon, i pint ripe, fresh huckleberries, thickly dredged with 
flour. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the beaten yolks, 
then the milk, the flour, and spice, the whites whipped stiff, and the 
baking powder. At the last stir in the huckleberries with a wooden 
spoon or paddle, not to bruise them. Bake in a loaf or card, in a 
moderate but steady oven, until a straw comes out clean from the 
thickest part. This is a delicious cake and deserves to be better 
known. 

HONEY CAKE. 

Mix together i cup honey, and i cup sugar ; add ^ cup melted 
butter, 2 beaten eggs, i pint flour sifted with 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, i teaspoon caraway seeds. Mix into a smooth batter and 
bake in a hot oven 30 minutes. 

IMPERIAL CAKE. 

Take 2 cups sugar, I cup butter, i cup milk, 3^ cups flour, 4 
eggs, I teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar ; cream the but- 
ter and sugar and add the beaten yolks of the eggs, then the milk, 
then the flavoring and the whites ; sift cream of tartar with the 
flour and add last, with Yz cup citron sliced fine, and i cup chopped 
almonds. If you wish a cake that combines quality and economy, 
give this a trial. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

To the whites of 5 eggs, lightly beaten, add 2 cups sugar, i cup 
butter, I cup milk, 3 cups flour, and 3 teaspoons baking powder ; 
bake in thin layers, and use as a cream to spread between, 25^ cups 
sugar, and ^ cup water boiled together ; beat the whites of 3 eggs 



CAKE MAKING. 79 

to a stiff froth, and when the syrup will hair, pour it into the whites 
and stir as fast as possible ; flav^or with lemon or vanilla and spread 
between the layers and over the top. 

ICE CREAM CAKE, NO. 2. 

Cream 2 cups sugar with ^ cup butter, add 3 cups flour, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, and i teaspoon lemon extract, beat well, and 
mix in gently the stiffly beaten whites of 8 eggs ; bake in jelly-cake 
pans. 

For filling, beat the yolks of 4 eggs very light, with 2 cups cream. 
Flavor with extract of vanilla and spread between the layers of, cake. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Beat to a cream ^ cup butter and 2 cups sugar ; add 5 eggs, 
2 at a time, beating 5 minutes between each addition, i}( pints 
flour sifted with i}4 teaspoons baking powder, i cup milk; mix 
to a smooth batter and bake in jelly-cake tins; spread with cur- 
rant or other fruit jelly. 

JELLY ROLLS. 
Three eggs, i cup sugar, i cup flour; beat yolks light; add sugar, 
2 tablespoons water, pinch salt. Sift i teaspoon baking powder 
into flour and add it gradually. Bake in long shallow tins, turn out 
on a damp towel, spread with jelly and roll up. 

JENNY LIND CAKE. 

Two and one-half cups sugar, i cup milk, 4 cups flour, 4 eggs, 2 
teaspoons baking powder, bake in 3 sheets (2 of white). After tak- 
ing out the quantity for the two white, leaving less than a third, add 
2 tablespoons molasses, i teaspoon cloves, i teaspoon cinnamon, i 
grated nutmeg ; add a little more flour to the dark ; put together 
with thin frosting. 

KAFFEE KUCHEN. 

One pound light raised dough, i ounce sugar and 3 of butter, i 
egg; cream the butter and beat well with the sugar and the egg; 
add the dough and mix thoroughly with the hand ; put it in a warm 



8o CAKE MAKING. 

place to rise ; when light, pour it in a small dripping-pan (when 
baked it should not be more than yA, of ^^^ moh thick) and let it 
stand lo or 15 minutes; put in the oven and while baking prepare 
this icing: 

Blanch 2 almonds and shred them ; add to the beaten whites of 
2 eggs I cup sugar ; stir in the almonds, and when the cake is baked 
cover it with the icing and dry in the oven. The almonds may be 
browned a little if liked. 

KELLY ISLAND CAKE. 

One cup butter, 2 of sugar, 3 of flour, 4 eggs, ^ cup milk, 3 tea- 
spoons baking powder ; bake in jelly-tins. For filling, stir together 
I grated lemon, i large grated tart apple, I egg, and I cup sugar, 
and boil 4 minutes. A very excellent cake. 

KENTUCKY CAKE. 

Four cups flour mixed, dry, with 2 heaping teaspoon baking 
powder, 2 cups white sugar, i cup butter, ^ cup sweet cream, the 
whites of 8 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, added to the cream ; flavor 
with vanilla, lemon or orange. Work the butter and sugar well 
together, then stir in the cream, then alternate the flour and eggs 
until all the ingredients are in, and last of all the extract. Put into 
deep buttered pans and bake in a moderate oven. 

KNICKERBOCKER CAKE. 

Beat ^ pound fresh butter to a cream ; add % pound powdered 
sugar, ^ pound sifted flour, i tablespoon orange-flower water, and 
I of brandy, and 4 ounces washed currants ; add 5 well-beaten 
eggs, and beat the mixture until very light. Line some shallow 
cake-tins with buttered paper, pour in the mixture until they are ^ 
full, and bake in a quick oven. 

lady's CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, i]4 cups sugar, 2 cups flour, nearly I cup 
milk, yi teaspoon soda, i teaspoon cream of tartar, whites of 4 eggs 
well beaten ; flavor with peach or almond. 



CAKE MAKING. 8l 

lady's- cake (gold). 

One and one-half cups flour, i cup sugar, yi cup butter, }< cup 
milk, I teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, yolks of 4 eggs, 
I teaspoon vanilla. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Five eggs beaten with 3 cups sugar and i cup butter, i cup milk, 
5 cups sifted flour, i lemon rind grated, ^ teaspoon soda dissolved 
well in the milk, and i teaspoon cream of tartar in the flour ; after 
all is well beaten, add the juice of the lemon and bake immediately. 

LEMON CAKE, NO. 2. 

To 4 well-beaten eggs, add 2 cups sugar, 2 tablespoons butter, ^ 
cup milk, 2 cups flour sifted with 2 teaspoons baking powder ; bake 
in jelly-tins and put together with frosting made of the white of i 
egg, the juice and grated rind of I lemon, and sugar enough to stiffen. 

LEMON CAKE, NO. 3. 

Three cups sugar, i cup butter, i cup milk, 5 eggs, 4 cups flour. 
Stir butter and sugar to a cream, beat the eggs separately, the 
whites to a stiff froth ; dissolve a little soda in the milk ; mix 
together; sift flour and stir in by degrees; add grated rind and juice 
of a fresh lemon. This is delicious. 

LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, ^ cup butter ; beat to a cream ; j4 
cup milk, 2)4 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 3 eggs well 
beaten ; bake in sheets or in jelly-tins. 

Jelly. — One cup sugar, i egg\ grate the yellow rind and use 
with the juice of I lemon, i tablespoon water, I teaspoon flour; 
place the dish in a kettle of boiling water and let it thicken ; when 
cool spread between the sheets. 

LIGHT CAKE. 

Beat 6 eggs, yolks and whites separately ; beat with the yolks 

I pound white sugar, ^ pound butter ; add i pound flour sifted 
6 



82 CAKE MAKING. 

with I teaspoon cream of tartar, and i cup milk with ^ teaspoon 
soda, I pound raisins, a httle citron, and lemon peel, then the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a froth. Bake in a paper-lined cake-tin I hour 
in a moderate oven. 

LUNCH CAKE. 

Beat thoroughly 2 cups butter and 2 cups sugar; add 2 cups egg 
well beaten, iy2 pints flour sifted with I heaping teaspoon baking 
powder, i gill wine, I teaspoon each extract rose, cinnamon, and 
nutmeg; mix into a smooth batter and bake in a moderate oven i 
hour ; when cold, ice with white icing. 

LOAF CAKE. 

Two cups sugar and I cup butter beaten to a cream, 3 eggs, the 
whites beaten separately, 3 cups flour with I teaspoon cream of tar- 
tar, stirred in, yolks of the eggs stirred well with the sugar and but- 
ter ; now add 2 cups more flour, with i teaspoon cream of tartar, i 
cup milk and the w^iites of the eggs, and then stir again ; add i nut- 
meg, I pound raisins or currants dredged with flour, i teaspoon 
soda dissolved in 4 tablespoons water. This makes 2 nice loaves, 
and is excellent. 

LADY FINGERS. 

Rub }4 pound butter into I pound flour ; add }4 pound sugar ; 
grate in the rind of 2 lemons, and squeeze in the juice of I ; then 
add 3 eggs ; make into a roll the size of the middle finger ; it will 
spread in the oven to the size of a thin cake ; dip in chocolate icing. 

MARBLED CAKE. 

Lt£-/it Part. — One and one-half cups white sugar, ^ cup butter, 
^ cup milk, Y-i teaspoon soda, i teaspoon cream of tartar sifted 
with 2)4 cups flour, whites of 4 eggs; beat and mix thoroughly. 

Dark Part- — One cup brown sugar, ^ cup butter, ^ cup sour 
milk, Yz teaspoon soda, 2Y2 cups flour, yolks of 4 eggs, Y^ teaspoon 
each of cloves, allspice, cinnamon, and nutmeg. 



CAKE MAKING. 83 

With a spoon drop the two batters alternately into a papered 
cake-tin. 

MINNEHAHA CAKE. 

One and one-half cups granulated sugar, ^ cup butter stirred to 
a cream, whites of 6 eggs, or 3 whole eggs, 2 teaspoons cream of 
tartar stirred in 2 heaping cups sifted flour, i teaspoon soda in ^ 
cup milk ; bake in 3 layers. For filling, take a teacup sugar and a 
little water boiled together until it is brittle when dropped in cold 
water, remove from stove and stir quickly into the well-beaten 
white of an egg ; add to this a cup of stoned raisins chopped fine, 
or a cup of chopped hickory-nut meats, and place between layers and 
over the top. A universal favorite. 

CHEAP MINNEHAHA CAKE. 

One cup sugar, piece of butter the size of an egg, yolks of 2 eggs, 
I cup milk or water, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, i of 
soda. Bake this in 3 or 4 tins according to their size. 

For tlie Layers. — One and one-half cups sugar in a basin, put on 
a little water, let boil till it ropes ; have the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth and add. Have a cup of raisins chopped fine, 
add them, stirring briskly so it will not cook in lumps. Spread 
between the layers and on top. Try it. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE. 
One cup sugar, ^ cup each of butter, milk, and corn-starch, i 
cup flour, whites of 6 eggs, a little vanilla, 2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der. Bake in layers. Put together with icing made by boiling ^ 
cup water with 2 cups sugar till thick ; pour it slowly over the well- 
beaten whites of 2 eggs and beat all together till cool. Beat before 
putting on each layer. A handsome cocoanut cake can be made of 
this by sprinkling each layer and the top thickly with grated 
cocoanut. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

One pound sugar, i pound flour, ^^ pound butter, i pint milk, 
whites of 6 eggs, ^ teaspoon soda, i teaspoon cream of tartar. Put 
together with frosting like jelly cake. 



84 CAKE MAKING. 

SOFT MOLASSES CAKE — Eggless. 

Two-thirds cup molasses, i tablespoon brown sugar, butter or 
lard the size of an egg, }4 cup sour milk, i teaspoon soda, 2 cups 
flour. 

MOLASSES CAKE. 

Beat together ^4 cup sugar, a piece of butter the size of an egg, 
and I egg; add }4 cup molasses, }4 cup sour milk, j4 teaspoon soda, 
2 cups flour, sifted, spices to suit the taste, and a cup of chopped 
raisins. Bake in a moderate oven. 

MOLASSES CAKE, NO. 2. 

Beat together i cup butter and i cup brown sugar; add }4 cup 
molasses, i cup milk, i egg, i}4 pints flour sifted with i^ teaspoons 
baking powder; mix into a consistent batter and bake about 40 
minutes. 

MOLASSES BUNS. 

One egg, yolks of 2 eggs, i cup brown sugar, 4 tablespoons 
melted butter, }4 cup sour milk, fill the cup with molasses and stir 
into it I teaspoon soda, I cup flour, i tablespoon cinnamon, I tea- 
spoon cloves. Make frosting of the 2 whites and brown sugar. 
Bake in square tins and when frosted mark off into squares. 

MORETON FARM CAKE. — Eggless. 

Two pounds butter, softened throughout, but not melted ; add 
2 pounds nice white, soft sugar, and mix together until creamed ; 
take out ^ and reserve it in a bowl until wanted. To the rest add 
I quart pretty warm milk ; stir in gradually 4 pounds flour, then mix 
in very thoroughly a cup of lively, home-made yeast. Let it stand 
in a warm place until very light, which will take about 4 hours ; then 
add the remainder of the butter and sugar, and a little more flour if 
needed ; add 2 pounds raisins nicely stoned, a little pulverized mace, 
and, if at hand, some candied lemon-peel ; let it rise again, and when 
well raised mix it well, using the hands, and proportion it off into 
well-buttered pans ; let them stand in a moderately warm place until 



CAKE MAKING. 8$ 

beginning to rise; put them into a steady oven and bake them fully 
an hour, or longer if only I or 2 pans are used. There are no eggs 
used in this cake — none are needed. It is an excellent cake for 
economical housekeepers to make in winter, when eggs are scarce 
and high-priced. If the top and sides are frosted it will keep moist 
for a long time. Brown paper is nice to wrap cake in before putting 
it into the cake box. 

NUT CAKE. 

Two eggs, I cup sugar, ^4, cup butter ; beat together and add ^ 
cup milk, i^^ cups sifted flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, i large 
cup chopped walnuts ; frost when baked, with icing without eggs 
No. 2. Mark in squares and put half a nut meat on each square. 

NUT CAKE, NO. 2. 

One cup butter, 2 cups white sugar, 4 cups flour, i cup milk, the 
whites of 8 eggs, 3 teaspoons baking powder, and 2 cups copped nut 
meats. 

WHITE NUT CAKE. 

Whites of 12 eggs beaten to a froth, i cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 
3^ cups flour, I teaspoon yeast powder. After the butter is well 
mixed add I large cocoanut, grated ; I large tumbler kernels of 
pecans, and i tumbler blanched almonds, the almonds to be slightly 
mashed in a mortar. 

NEAPOLITAN CAKE. 

Black Part. — One cup brown sugar, 2 eggs, ^ cup each of but- 
ter, molasses, and strong coffee, 2]4 cups flour, I each of raisins, 
and currants, i teaspoon each of soda, cinnamon and cloves, and ^ 
teaspoon mace. 

White Part. — Two cups sugar, ^ cup butter, I of milk, 2^ of 
flour, I of corn-starch, whites of 4 eggs, i small teaspoon cream of 
tartar. 

Bake the cakes in round jelly-pans with straight edges ; the loaves 
should be i^ inches thick after baking. Wlien the cake is cold, 



36 CAKE MAKING. 

each black loaf should be spread with a thick coating of lemon and 
sugar, made as follows : The white of I egg thoroughly beaten, the 
grated rind of 2 and the juice of 3 lemons ; powdered sugar enough 
to make a thick frosting ; lay a white loaf on each black one and 
frost as you would any other cake. 

NEW year's cake. 

Light Part. — Take ^ pound sugar, y^^ pound butter, ^ pound 
flour, whites of 8 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking powder, I grated cocoa- 
nut, Yz pound citron, chopped fine, I pound blanched almonds cut 
in very thin slices. Flavor with extract almond. Bake in 3 jelly- 
cake pans. 

Dark Part. — Take ^ pound sugar, ^ pound butter, 3^ pound 
flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, yolks of 6 eggs, beat well and add 
^ pound each of seeded raisins and currants, ^ pound chopped figs, 
Yz ounce each of cinnamon, allspice, cloves and mace ; bake in jelly 
pans. Make icing. Spread alternately on the black and white cake, 
and put together. Ice the top, and ornament handsomely for the 
center of the table. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Beat the whites of 3 and the yolks of 5 eggs separately ; stir to a 
cream 2 cups sugar and ^ cup butter, add i cup cold water, 2^ 
cups flour with 2 teaspoons baking powder, grated rind and all the 
juice of I orange, except I tablespoon saved for the frosting; bake 
in 2 square tins. 

Frosting. — Whites of 2 eggs, 2 small cups sugar, with a table- 
spoon of orange juice saved from the cake. When the cake is cold 
join with this frosting and frost the top. 

ORANGE CAKE, NO. 2. 

Three eggs, I tablespoon butter, i^ cups sugar, 2 cups flour, with 
2 teaspoons baking powder sifted with the flour, Y2 cup rich milk, a 
very little salt, orange juice, or some extract of lemon. Bake on 
jelly-cake tins.. 



CAKE MAKING. 



87 



Jelly for Orange Cake. — Take 2 good oranges, grate a part of 
the rind of i, then peelthem and grate them all; remove the seeds 
and add I cup sugar, 2 tablespoons water, and scald in a tin pail set 
in a kettle of hot water. Take i tablespoon corn-starch, mix smooth 
with a few spoons cold water and stir into the orange and cook 
just enough to cook the corn-starch ; when nearly or quite cold, 
beat the whites of 2 eggs and add powdered sugar for frosting ; 
leave out a little of this for the top of the cake if you like, and stir 
the rest into the orange, and you will have a jelly that will not run 
off or soak into the cake. 

ORANGE CAKE, NO. 3. 

Two cups sugar, 4 eggs, leaving out the whites of 2, yi cup but- 
ter, I cup water, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 3 cups flour, juice, 
grated rind, and pulp of i orange ; use the remaining whites for 
frosting the top 

PEACH CAKE. 

Bake the sheets of sponge cake as for jelly-cake ; cut nice ripe 

peaches in thin slices ; prepare cream by whipping, sweetening and 

'adding flavor of vanilla, if desired; put layers of peaches between 

the sheets of cake ; pour cream over each layer and over the top. 

To be eaten soon after it is prepared. 

PERFECTION CAKE. 

Three cups sugar, 3 cups flour, I cup butter, i cup milk, i cup 
corn-starch, the whites of 12 eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Before 
sifting the flour put in 3 teaspoons baking powder ; sift all together. 
Dissolve the corn-starch in the milk and add it to the butter and 
sugar well beaten together; then add the flour and the whites of the 
eggs. Never beat in a tin dish. 

PORK CAKE. 

Take i pound fat salt pork free from lean or rind, chop as fine 
as to be almost like lard, pour upon it ^ pint boiling water ; add 2 



88 CAKE MAKING. 

cups sugar, I cup molasses, I teaspoon soda stirred into the molasses, 
I pound raisins, j^ pound citron shaved fine; stir in sifted flour 
enough to make of the consistency of common cake batter ; season 
with I teaspoon each of nutmeg and cloves and 2 teaspoons cinna- 
mon. Bake in a moderate oven. 

PINAFORE CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, j4 cup butter, ^ cup milk, 2 cups 
flour, whites of 4 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Flavor with 
lemon. When mixed take out enough for 2 cakes, to be baked in 
flat tins for layer cakes. To the rest, add i teaspoon strawberry 
extract and bake as the first. 

Cream to put Between. — One pint of milk, yolks of 4 eggs, I 
teaspoon corn-starch ; flavor with vanilla. Make the icing for the 
top pink. 

PINK AND WHITE LAYER CAKE. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar ; beat to a cream ; I cup milk, I cup 
corn-starch, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, well sifted, dry, 
with the flour ; whites of 6 eggs beaten stiff ; stir all together. 
This will make 5 layers ; separate enough to make 2 layers, and add 
to it I teaspoon fruit coloring. 

Filling and Frosting. — Whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff, adding 
white sugar and extract of orange. First cover a white layer with 
filling, then lay on a pink layer and cover that, next a white, next 
pink, last white, filling between each and frosting the top. 

PORTUGUESE CAKE. 

Beat together l^ cups butter and 4 cups sugar, add 8 eggs, 2 at 
a time, beating 5 minutes between each addition, I pint flour sifted 
with I heaping teaspoon baking powder, 3 cups almonds blanched 
and pounded to a paste with a little water, I cup seedless raisins, I 
cup currants; season with nutmeg; mix into a batter and bake in a 
well-papered tin in a steady oven lYz hours. 



CAKE MAKING. 89 



PUFF CAKE. 



Two cups sugar, 3 eggs, I cup butter, I cup milk, 2 teaspoons 
cream of tartar, I teaspoon soda, 3 cups flour. Bake in a quick oven. 



PEARL CAKE. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, I cup milk, I cup corn-starch, 
2 cups flour, ]/>, teaspoon soda, I teaspoon cream of tartar, whites of 
5 eggs. Cream the butter and sugar, add the beaten eggs, sift cream 
of tartar into flour, put soda into the milk ; mix thoroughly. 

PINE-APPLE CAKE. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, I cup milk; 3 cups flour, whites of 6 
eggs and yolks of 4, 3 teaspoons baking powder well mixed through 
flour ; bake in jelly-cake pans ; grate a pine-apple ; sprinkle with 
sugar, spread between the layers ; pine-apple jam may be substituted ; 
frost the outside ; beat 2 tablespoons of the pine-apple into the 
frosting. 

PLUM CAKE. 

Beat together 2 cups butter, i cup sugar, 2 eggs, i cup molasses, I 
cup milk, I teaspoon each of allspice, cinnamon and mace, I gill 
brandy, 2 pounds each of currants and raisins, ^ pound citron, y^ 
teaspoon soda. Flour to thicken. 

POUND CAKE. 

Sugar, I pound (2^ cups), butter, i pound (2 cups), flour, i 
pound (3 cups), 10 eggs, i teaspoon soda. Beat the yolks and whites 
separately, and, if you wish a fruit cake, use I pound of either 
raisins or currants. 

COCOANUT POUND CAKE. 

Beat ^ pound of butter to a cream ; add gradually I pound sugar, I 
pound flour sifted with 2 teaspoons baking powder, a pinch of salt, i 
teaspoon grated lemon peel, y!l pound prepared cocoanut, 4 well- 
beaten eggs, I cup milk ; mix thoroughly ; butter the tins and line them 



90 CAKE MAKING. 

with buttered paper ; pour the mixture in to the depth of l}4 inches, 
and bake in a good oven ; when baked, take out, spread icing over 
them and return to the oven to dry the icing. 

CITRON POUND CAKE. 

One pound sugar, i pound flour, ^ pound butter, 8 large or lo 
small eggs, 1}^ pounds citron finely shredded; cream butter and 
sugar, add the yolks, then the flour and well-whipped whites; put 
layer of batter in cake-pan and sprinkle thickly with citron, then 
another layer of batter, etc., till pan is filled. Bake slowly I^ to 2 
hours. 

mollie's pound cake. 

One pound sugar, 3/^ pound butter, i pound flour, lo eggs beaten 
separate, putting in the whites last. This is very fine. 

white pound cake. 

One pound flour, ^ pound butter, i pound sugar, whites of i6 
eggs beaten to a froth ; flavor with extract bitter almond. Elegant. 

QUEEN CAKE. 

One pound sugar, I pound flour sifted with i heaping teaspoon 
baking powder, ^ pound butter, 5 eggs, l gill sweet cream, l tea- 
spoon extract of nectarine, i tablespoon water and I grated nutmeg; 
beat the sugar- and butter to a cream, add the eggs beaten very 
light, then the cream and flour, and lastly the flavoring. 

QUINCY CAKE. 

One cup butter, 3 cups powdered sugar, 4 cups flour sifted with 
ll4 teaspoons cream of tartar, I cup milk, I teaspoon soda, the juice 
and rind of i fresh lemon, whites of 10 eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
Bake l^ or 2 hours in a pan. 

RAISIN CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, i cup sugar, I cup sour milk, 2 eggs, i cup 
raisins, }4 teaspoon soda, i teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon and 
nutmeg, flour to thicken. 



CAKE MAKING. 9 1 



RECEPTION CAKE. 



Beat together 2 cups of butter and 2 cups sugar ; add 10 beaten 
eggs, I quart flour sifted with 2 teaspoons baking powder, 2 cups 
currants, i cup shaved citron, ^ of an orange peel cut fine, Y^, cup 
blanched almonds cut fine ; season with allspice and cinnamon ; put 
into a paper-lined cake-tin and bake in a moderate oven. 

RICE CAKE. 

Beat together ^ cup butter, 2 cups sugar, and 4 eggs ; add ^ 
<up sweet cream ; sift together IJ^ cups rice flour, Ij^ cups flour, and 
I heaping teaspoon baking powder ; mix all together and season 
with lemon extract. Bake in patty-pans in a hot oven. 

ROSE CAKE. 

One-half cup white sugar, j^ cup red sugar, y^ cup butter, ^ cup 
milk, 2 cups flour, i teaspoon baking powder ; flavor with rose. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; then the red sugar, milk and 
flour; whites of 6 eggs beaten to a froth the last thing. Bake in a 
slow oven. 

ROCHESTER JELLY CAKE. 

Three eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 2 cups sugar, ^ 
cup butter, i cup milk, 3 cups flour, i tablespoon baking powder. 
Take ^ of the above mixture and bake in 2 square pans, then add 
to the remainder i cup stoned and chopped raisins, 'Y pound citron 
shaved fine, i teaspoon cinnamon, i nutmeg, ^ teaspoon each of 
cloves and allspice, i tablespoon each of molasses and flour. Bake 
in like pans and place in alternate layers with raspberry jam or any 
kind of jelly. 

The same put together with frosting is called Ribbon Cake. 

SPANISH BUNS. 

One pint flour, i pint sugar, i small cup butter, i cup milk, i^ 
teaspoons baking powder, i teaspoon each cinnamon and cloves, 4 
eggs ; reserve whites of 2 for frosting. Bake in square tins, and 
when done cut into small squares and frost all over. 



92 



CAKE MAKING. 



SPANISH BUNS, NO. 2. 

One whole egg, the yolks of 2, i cup brown sugar, 4 tablespoons 
melted butter, 5^ cup sour milk, and fill the cup with molasses ; stir 
into it I teaspoon soda, i cup flour, i tablespoon cinnamon, i tea- 
spoon cloves ; bake in square tin ; make frosting of the two whites 
of eggs and brown sugar. When cool mark in squares. 

SPONGE CAKE WITH HOT WATER. 

One cup sugar and 2 eggs well beaten together, i teaspoon bak- 
ing powder sifted with i cup flour ; stir well together, then stir in ^ 
cup boiling water or milk; bake quickly in a buttered' tin. If these 
directions are followed the cake will be very nice. This is best when 
baked in a pan with a tube in the center. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat the yolks of 3 eggs until light, add about ^ of the whites 
beaten very light, and i cup sugar, and yi saltspoon salt ; pour in 
the rest of the whites and i tablespoon lemon juice, and lastly 1 cup 
flour ; beat all together thoroughly and bake in a moderately hot 
oven. This makes 12 small cakes baked in patty pans, or a nice 
loaf in a pan with a funnel through the middle. Tried and sure. 
No soda or baking powder. 

DELICIOUS SPONGE CAKE. 

Twelve eggs, i pound sugar, 12 ounces flour, a pinch of salt; 
flavor. Beat the whites to a very stiff froth, the yolks till the bubr 
bles look fine. When the yolks are beaten enough add the sugar 
and beat till sugar is dissolved ; then add the whites and lastly the 
flour, and bake immediately in brick-shaped tins. This will make 2 
loaves. You will find your cake so much nicer if baked in a paste. 
Make with flour and water only ; roll out on the board same as pie 
crust, line your greased tins all over inside with the paste and pour 
in the batter. Bake nearly an hour. Do not break off the paste till 
you want to use it. Your cake will be more moist and keep longer • 
indeed, the cake will be much better a day or two old. 



CAKE MAKING. 93 



SPONGE CAKE ROLL. 



Take 2 teacups sugar, 2 teacups flour, 2 heaping teaspoons bak- 
ing powder ; into this break 6 good-sized eggs ; beat all well 
together, turn into square jelly-tins, and bake in a quick oven to a 
light brown. When done turn out on a moulding board, and spread 
quickly with jelly ; roll carefully out and wrap each roll in a clean 
napkin and serve. The eggs are not beaten separately, and the 
quicker the cake is put together the better it will be. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. " 

One and two-thirds cups granulated sugar, whites of 8 eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, i good cup flour, I teaspoon cream of tartar 
mixed thoroughly in flour ; mix together and bake in basin lined 
with well-buttered paper ^^ of an hour. Season with extract lemon 
when done. 

SPICE CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, ^ cup butter, i cup seeded raisins, 
^ cup milk, 3 cups flour, 2 eggs, i heaping teaspoon cream of tar- 
tar, ^ even teaspoon soda, cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves to taste. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Beat to a froth the whites of 6 eggs; add 2 cups sugar, ^4, cup 
butter; beat well together and add i cup milk with i teaspoon soda, 
2 cups flour and i cup corn-starch sifted with 2 teaspoons cream of 
tartar ; flavor with any extract. (See, also, under Gold Cake.) 

The same made by substituting the yolks for the whites makes a 
nice gold cake. 

SNOW CAKE. 

One-half teacup butter, I cup sugar, i ^/^^ cups flour, ^ cup milk, 
whites of 4 eggs, i teaspoon baking powder; flavor with lemon. 

SNOW CAKE, NO. 2. 

Whites of 10 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, sift lightly on this i}4 
cups fine white or pulverized sugar, stir well, and add i cup flour 
mixed with i teaspoon cream of tartar ; flavor with lemon or vanilla. 



94 CAKE MAKING. 

SNOW CAKE, NO. 3. 

Three-fourths cup butter, 2 cups sugar, i cup milk, I cup corn- 
starch, 2 cups flour, lyi teaspoons baking powder. Mix corn-starch, 
flour and baking powder together ; add the butter and sugar alter- 
nately with the milk. Add last the whites of 7 eggs ; flavor to 
taste. 

SNOW DRIFT CAKE. 

Two cups powdered sugar, i heaping cup prepared flour, 10 eggs, 
the whites only, whipped stiff; juice of i lemon and ^ the grated 
peel, a little salt. Whip the eggs stiff, beat in the sugar, lemon, 
salt, and finally the flour. Stir in very lightly and quickly and bake 
at once in 2 loaves, or in square cards. It is a beautiful and delicious 
cake when fresh. It is very nice baked as a jelly-cake and spread 
with this : 

Filling. — Whites of 3 eggs, i heaping cup powdered sugar ; juice 
of I orange and y^ the peel ; juice of ^ lemon. Whip to a good 
meringue and put between the layers, adding more sugar for the 
frosting on top. 

SCOTCH CAKE. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 cups flour, 9 eggs, i wine-glass 
brandy, i pound raisins, the grated rind and juice of i lemon. Bake 
in a moderate oven. 

SWISS CAKE. 

One-quarter cup butter, i^ cups sugar, 23^ cups flour, i cup 
milk, 2 eggs, l teaspoon cream of tartar, and ^ teaspoon soda. 
Stir the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the eggs, well beaten. 
Mix and flavor with lemon. This makes a good and inexpensive 
cake. 

SEED CAKE. 

Beat together i cup sugar, y^ cup butter, and 2 eggs ; add y^ 
cup milk, and 2 cups flour sifted with 2 teaspoons baking powder ; 
stir in i tablespoon caraway seed and season with nutmeg. Bake in 
a loaf or in patty-tins. 



CAKE MAKING. 95 

STRAWBERRY CAKE. 

. Three eggs, i cup sugar, 2 cups flour, JE^^ cup milk, i tablespoon 
butter, I heaping teaspoon baking powder. Beat the butter and 
sugar together, and add the eggs well beaten. Stir in the flour and 
baking powder well sifted together. Bake in deep tin plate. This 
quantity will fill 4 plates. With 3 pints strawberries, mix i cup 
sugar and mash them a little. Spread the fruit between the layers 
of cake. The top layer of strawberries may be covered with a 
meringue made with the white of i egg and i tablespoon powdered 
sugar. 

Save out the largest berries and arrange them around in circles 
on the top in white frosting. Makes a very fancy dish, as well as a 
most delicious cake. 

SULTANA CAKE. 

Beat together i^ cups butter and i^ cups sugar; add 6 eggs, 2 
at a time, beating 5 minutes between each addition, 1% pints flour, 
sifted with I teaspoon baking powder, ^ cup thick cream, 4 cups 
Sultana raisins, ^ cup chopped citron ; mix thoroughly and put in 
a paper-lined cake-tin well buttered. Bake in a moderate oven i % 
hours. When done, spread with transparent icing. 

TEA CAKE. 
One cup sugar, i egg, ^ cup butter, i cup milk, 2 coffee-cups 
flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, and flavor as desired. For a 
"Reception Cake," frost the top, and decorate with walnut meats. 

DELICATE TEA CAKE. 

The whites of 3 eggs beaten to a froth, I cup pulverized white 
sugar, % cup milk, i teaspoon cream of tartar, ^ teaspoon soda, 2 
cups flour, yi cup corn-starch, I teaspoon blanched almonds, % cup 
melted butter. 

TUTTI FRUTTI CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, ^ cup butter, I cup milk, whites of 5 eggs, 3 
cups flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder. Bake in layers. 



96 CAKE MAKING. 

Frosting. — One-half cup water, 3 cups sugar, whites of 2 eggs ; 
boil sugar and water until thick and waxy ; beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth and pour the syrup over them, beating air till 
cool ; then add ^ pound almonds, blanched, i cup raisins, stoned, 
and ^ pound citron, all chopped fine ; spread between the layers 
and over the top and sides. 

TIP-TOP CAKE. 

One cup sugar, ^ cup butter, I egg, I cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 
teaspoons baking powder. 

TUNBRIDGE CAKE. 

Bake a plain sponge cake in a cylinder-mold ; when cold cut it in 
thin slices, lay the bottom piece on a plate, spread over any kind of 
fruit-jelly and 2 tablespoons of any kind of wine ; repeat this until 
all the cake is used ; prepare a meringue paste of the whites of 4 
eggs beaten stiff, with 2 cups sugar ; use it to entirely cover the top 
and sides of the cake ; sift sugar plentifully over it and place it in an 
oven to brown just a fawn color ; when ready to serve slide it off 
the plate into a glass dish and pile round it i pint of whipped cream. 
Flavor with any extract to suit the taste. Nice for tea or dessert. 

UNIVERSAL CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, ^ cup butter, i cup milk, whites of 5 eggs, 3 
cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder; any flavoring to suit. 

This mixture serves for many kinds of cake ; if layer, the filling 
is what names the cake ; the addition of raisins, currants, spices, etc., 
makes a fruit cake. As this takes only the whites of the eggs, it 
would be well to make a gold cake in the same manner, to utilize the 
yolks. 

VAN BUREN CAKE. 

One cup sugar, ^ cup butter, )^ cup milk, 3 eggs, ^ cup 
chopped raisins, 2 teaspoons baking powder, about 2 cups flour 
flavor with nutmeg. Put the butter, sugar, milk and well-beaten 
eggs together, then stir in the flour and raisins. By putting them 



CAKE MAKING. 97 

together I have never had any trouble about the raisins falHng to 
the bottom of the cake, but they have been evenly distributed 
through it, A cake with raisins needs a little more flour than one 
without them. This cake will keep well. 

VANILLA CAKE. 

One cup butter, 2 cups pulverized sugar, I cup milk, 3 cups flour, 
y^ cup corn-starch sifted with 2 teaspoons baking powder, 4 eggs, 2 
teaspoons extract of vanilla. 

VANILLA CAKE, NO. 2. 

Rub I cup sugar with ^ cup butter to a cream ; add the whites 
of 3 eggs, ^ cup milk, 2 cups flour, i teaspoon baking powder ; bake 
in 3 cakes. Take the yolks of the 3 eggs, i cup pulverized sugar, 
and I teaspoon vanilla; beat together 15 minutes. When the cakes 
are cold or slightly warm spread this mixture between them. 

VANITY CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, ^ cup butter, )^ cup milk, 
I^ cups flour, Yz cup corn-starch, i teaspoon baking powder, whites 
of 6 eggs ; bake in 2 cakes, putting frosting between and on top. 

WATERMELON CAKE. 

White Part. — Two cups white sugar, I cup butter, I cup milk, 
3^ cups flour, whites of 8 eggs, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, i tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in a little warm water. 

Red Part. — One cup red sugar, ^ cup butter, ^ cup milk, 2 cups 
flour, whites of 4 eggs, I teaspoon cream of tartar, ^ teaspoon soda, 
I cup raisins; be careful to keep the red part around the tube of the 
pan, and the white around the edge. It requires 2 persons to fill 
the pan. This is a very attractive and ornamental cake. 

WASHINGTON CAKE. 

One cup butter, 3 cups brown sugar, i cup milk, 4 eggs, I tea- 
spoon each extract cinnamon and nutmeg, and i teaspoon ground 
allspice, i cup seeded raisins, 3 cups flour, and 2 teaspoons baking 
powder. 



98 



CAKE MAKING. 



WEDDING CAKE. 

Take ij4 pounds each of flour, butter and sugar, yi pound each 
of candied lemon, candied orange, and candied citron, I pound 
dried cherries, i^j pounds currants (or if the cherries can 
not be readily obtained, use a pound more of currants), 8 
ounces almonds, 8 eggs, 2 teaspoons orange, or lemon extract, 
^ ounce spices, consisting of powdered cinnamon, grated 
nutmeg, and ground cloves in equal proportion, i teaspoon 
salt, and i small tumbler brandy (if objected to, the brandy 
,jj^^^ ^^^ may be omitted and another 



egg added). Wash, pick and 
dry the currants, cut the cher- 
ries into moderate sized pieces, 
shred the candied peel, 
blanch and pound the al- 
monds, or cut them into 
very small pieces. 

Put the butter into a large 
bowl, and beat it to cream, 
either with a wooden spoon 
or with the hand. Add very 
gradually the sugar, flour, and 
W- eggs, and when they are thor- 
oughly mixed work in the 
rest of the ingredients. Put 
- ^ them in a little at a time 

and beat the cake between each addition. It should be beaten 
fully ^^ hour. Line a tin hoop with double thicknesses of but- 
tered paper, pour in the mixture, and place it on a metal baking- 
sheet with 12 folds of paper under it, and 4 or 5 on top, to keep 
it from burning. Put it into a moderately heated oven at an even 
temperature until it is done enough. If the cake is to be iced, 
first prepare the almond part : 

Blanch yi pound almonds. Pound them in a mortar with 
a few drops of orange-flower water, i pound fine white 
sugar, and as much w^hite of egg as will make a soft, stiff 




CAKE MAKING. 



99 



paste. Spread this over the top of the cake, and keep it from 
the edge as much as possible. Put it in a cool oven or in a 
warm place, until it is dry and hard. To make the sugar icing, put 
2 pounds icing sugar into a bowl and work it into the whites of 2, or 
if necessary, 3, or even 4, eggs. The whites must not be whisked, 
but thrown in as they are. Work the mixture to a stiff, shiny paste, 
and while working it add occasionally a drop of lemon-juice. Be 
careful to obtain icing sugar. If a drop of liquid blue is added it 
will make it look whiter. The icing will need to be worked vigor- 
ously to make a paste that will not run, and the fewer eggs taken 
the better. The cake ought not to be iced until a short time before 
it is wanted, as it may get dirty. The icing should be spread evenly 
over with the hand wetted with cold water, then smoothed with an 
ivory knife, and it should be put into a gentle oven to harden. It 
may be ornamented with little knobs of icing placed round the edge ; 
and on the day of the wedding a wreath of white flowers and green 
leaves may be placed round it by way of ornament. If anything 
more elaborate is required, a pretty center ornament may be made 
with glazed white card-board, silver paper, and orange blossoms; or 
a stand and a drum, with artificial flowers, may be hired of the con- 
fectioner. Time to bake the cake, about 6 hours. 

WEDDING CAKE, NO. 2. 

Six cups butter, 4 cups sugar, 16 eggs, 3 pints flour, 6 cups cur- 
rants, washed, dried, and picked, 3 cups sultana raisins, 3 cups citron, 
2 cups candied lemon peel, 2 cups almonds, blanched and cut in 
shreds, ^ pint brandy, 2 ounces each nutmeg, mace, and cinnamon, 
I tablespoon each cloves and allspice. 

Prepare all these ingredients in the following manner : Place the 
butter and sugar in a large bowl ; break the eggs into a quart meas- 
ure or pitcher ; cover a small waiter with a clean sheet of paper, and 
on it lay the sifted flour, fruit, citron, and lemon peel cut into shreds, 
the almonds and spices, with the brandy measured at hand ; also get 
ready a large cake-tin by papering it inside with white paper, and 
outside and bottom with four or five thicknesses of coarse wrapping 
paper, which can be tied on. 



100 CAKE MAKIXG. 

Having thus prepared everything, and the fire banked up to last, 
with the addition from time to time of just a shovel of coal, by which 
means you will not reduce the oven heat, proceed to beat to a very 
light cream the butter and sugar, adding the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 
a little between each addition until all are used ; then put in con- 
tents of the waiter all at once with the brandy; mix very thoroughly, 
and smooth ; put it into the prepared cake-tin, smooth over the top, 
put plenty of paper on to protect it, and bake 8 hours, keeping the 
oven steadily up to a clear, moderate heat ; watch it faithfully, and 
you will produce a cake worthy of the occasion ; remove from the 
oven very carefully, and suffer it to stay on the tin until quite cold ; 
the next day ice it with a thin coat of white icing, both the top and 
the sides ; and place in a cool oven to dry the icing. Now spread a 
second coat of icing, which will prevent any crumbs or fruit being 
mixed up with the icing when you are icing to finish ; now with a 
broad knife proceed, when the first coat is dry, to ice the sides, then 
pour the icing on the center of the cake, in quantity sufficient to 
reach the edges, when stop ; decorate with a vase of white, made 
flowers, etc., to taste. 

TIN-WEDDING CAKE. 

Rub I cup butter and 2 cups sugar to a cream ; add i cup milk, 
4 cups flour, 5 eggs, I teaspoon cream of tartar, ^^ teaspoon soda, y^^ 
pound citron. This makes 2 loaves. 

WALNUT CAKE. 

One coffeecup sugar, i^ cups flour, 2 cups raisins, i cup walnut 
meats, ^ cup butter, ^ cup milk, 3 eggs, ^ nutmeg, ^ teaspoon 
soda or 2 teaspoons baking powder ; flavor with lemon or vanilla. 

WEBSTER CAKES. 

Beat together thoroughly 1 cup butter, 3 cups sugar, and 2 eggs; 
add 5 cups flour sifted with 2 teaspoons baking powder, i^ cups 
milk, 2 cups seedless raisins, I teaspoon each extract of bitter 
almonds and vanilla. Bake in a quick, steady oven 45 minutes. 



CAKE MAKING. lOI 

WHITE CAKE. 

Whites of 8 eggs well whipped, 3 cups pulverized sugar, I cup 
butter, I cup milk, 4 cups sifted flour with i teaspoon cream of tar- 
tar, ^2 teaspoon soda dissolved in the milk, juice of i lemon. Bake 
I hour in a moderate oven. 

WHITE CAKE, NO. 2. 

One cup sugar, i tablespoon butter, whites of 3 eggs beaten to a 
froth, I cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2)^ teaspoons baking powder. Bake 
in a square or oblong shallow tin. To make this fine stir 15 or 20 
minutes. 

Frosting. — One cup sugar dissolved in a little water and boiled 
until it will hair from the spoon ; have ready the beaten white of i 
€gg; pour the boiling frosting into the egg, beating rapidly until it 
begins to cool and thicken ; spread on the cake ; halve English wal- 
nuts and put on the frosting about i inch apart. 

WHITE CAKE, NO. 3. 

One and one-half cups pulverized sugar, ^^ cup butter, 2 cups 
flour before sifting, i teaspoon baking powder, whites of 4 eggs, ^ 
cup milk; flavor to taste. 

WHITE PERFECTION CAKE. 

Three cups sugar, i cup butter, i cup milk, 3 cups flour, i cup 
corn-starch, whites of 12 eggs beaten to a stifl' froth, 2 teaspoons 
cream of tartar in the flour, and i of soda in ^ the milk ; dissolve 
the corn-starch in the rest of the milk, and add it to the sugar and 
butter well beaten together, then the milk and soda, and the flour 
and whites of eggs. This cake is rightly named " Perfection." 

YULE CAKE. 

Rub together 2^^ cups butter and 3 cups sugar; add 10 beaten 
eggs, 4 cups flour, with 2 teaspoons baking powder, 4 cups currants, 
^ cup chopped citron, i teaspoon each of extract nutmeg and cloves, 
I gill brandy. Bake in a well-greased, paper-lined tin, in a moderate 
oven, 2^ hours. 



102 CAKE MAKING. 

ZUCKER KUCHEN (SUGAR CAKE). 

Take bread dough, as large as a good-sized loaf, i pint milk, i 
small cup butter, 2 handfuls sugar, and i teaspoon cinnamon. Mix 
the butter in the milk on the stove; make a hole in the dough, put 
in the sugar, 2 eggs and the cinnamon ; then add the warm milk and 
butter, mix well, add flour enough to make a light dough ; let it rise 
again. Roll it out lyi inches thick, put in a dripping-pan ; beat 
light I Qgg and spread it over the top ; lay pieces of butter, raisins 
chopped almonds, and sifted sugar on the top. Bake in a hot 
oven 15 or i6 minutes. 



ICINGS. 



For icing cakes use only fresh eggs and sift your pulverized 
sugar. For boiled icings never stir the sugar with a spoon after it is 
dissolved. If there is danger of burning shake the dish. Take off 
as soon as it will hair, or crackle when dropped into water, and stir it 
immediately into the beaten eggs. 

ALiMOND ICING. 

Whites of 3 eggs whisked to a standing froth, 3^ pound pow- 
dered sugar, ^2 pound sweet almonds, blanched and pounded to a 
paste. When beaten fine and smooth, work gradually into the 
icing; flavor with lemon juice and rose water. This frosting is 
delicious. Dry in the open air when practicable. 

BOILED ICING. 

Two and one-half cups sugar, ^ cup water ; boil until it candies 
— that is, until it will drop from the spoon in threads, or will harden 
in cold water ; then add the whites of 3 eggs beaten to a stifl" froth ; 
stir it briskly for a few minutes until it is perfectly smooth. Add 
the juice of I lemon. This is enough to put between the layers of a 
medium-sized cake, and will also cover the top and sides. When 
you wish to frost the top and sides only, i cup sugar and I ^gg will 
be plenty. 



CAKE MAKING. IO3 

BOILED ICING, NO. 2. 

One and one-half cups sugar ; put to this 2 tablespoons water ; 
let it boil on the back of the stove until it is waxy, or stringy ; then 
add whites of 2 eggs. 

CARAMEL FROSTING. 

Four cups brown sugar, i cup sweet cream ; boil together until it 
will string from the spoon. Stir until nearly cool and spread 
between layers of cake. 

COMMON ICING. 

Beat the white of i egg to a stiff froth, and stir pulverized sugar 
into it until it is thick. When spreading frosting over a cake use a 
knife, and dip it into hot water if you have any trouble about mak- 
ing the frosting smooth. Set the cake into the heater for 4 or 5 
minutes. You may add to this frosting some whole blanched 
almondSj and flavor the frosting with almond extract. 

If you wish to frost the top of the cake only, put the frosting on, 
and then pin a piece of clean white paper around the cake to pre- 
vent its running over the sides. 

CONFECTIONERS' THICK ICING. 

Put I pound granulated sugar and ^ pint water in a perfectly 
clean saucepan, stir continually over the fire until the sugar dis- 
solves, then boil without stirring until the syrup spins a heavy 
thread from a spoon dipped into it. Beat the whites of 2 eggs 
to a very stiff froth ; add to them gradually the syrup, beating 
rapidly all the while ; then add ^ teaspoon cream of tartar, and beat 
until cold and thick. Flavor to taste. 

CHOCOLATE GLACE. 

Grate i ounce chocolate and put it into a small saucepan with 
3 tablespoons granulated sugar and i tablespoon water, stand it over 
a tea-kettle of boiling water and stir until smooth and glossy. Put 
into a bowl the white of i egg, 2 tablespoons ice water, and y^ cup 



104 



CAKE MAKING. 



confectioner's sugar; beat until smooth, then add the chocolate 
mixture, add a teaspoon vanilla, and if necessary more confectioner's 
sugar. It should be thick enough to spread easily. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

Six rounded tablespoons grated chocolate, i]4 cups powdered 
sugar, whites of 3 eggs ; beat the whites but very little (they must not 
become white), add the chocolate, stir it in ; then pour in the sugar 
gradually, beating to mix it well. 

CHOCOLATE ICING, NO. 2. 

One-half cake chocolate grated fine, ~A> cup sugar, }4 cup milk or 
cream ; boiled and stirred to a paste. 

CHOCOLATE ICING, NO. 3. 

One-half cake chocolate ; warm in the oven 10 minutes ; add i 
heaping cup sugar, i teaspoon cinnamon, ]/i teaspoon cloves, the 
same of ginger, 2 teaspoons vanilla ; pour a little water on the sugar, 
put it on the chocolate, heat on the stove, melt it to a smooth paste, 
stir in the spices. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

Two-thirds cake sweet chocolate, ^ cup milk, yolk of i egg, i cup 
sugar, I tablespoon corn-starch ; cook over water till thick. 

CLEAR ICING, FOP CAKE. 

Put I cup sugar into a bowl with i tablespoon lemon-juice and 
whites of 2 eggs. Just mix together smooth and pour over the 
cake; if the cake is not hot enough to dry it, place it in the mouth 
of a moderately warm oven. 

ICING FOR CAKES. 

Whites of 4 eggs, i pound pulverized sugar, flavor with lemon ; 
break the whites into a broad, cool, clean dish ; throw a small hand- 
ful sugar upon them and begin to whip it in with long, even strokes 



CAKE MAKING. I05 

of the beater. A few minutes later throw in more sugar and keep 
adding it at intervals until it is all used up. Beat until the icing is 
of a smooth, fine and firm texture ; if not stiff enough, put in more 
sugar ; use at least ^ pound sugar for each egg. To spread it, use 
a broad-bladed knife dipped in cold water. 

ICING WITHOUT EGGS. 

An icing may be made without eggs by using gelatine or Poland 
starch, which must be dissolved and cooked, then thickened with 
pulverized sugar and flavored. It is best to make this the day 
before using, as it takes longer to dry than when made with eggs, 
but it will never crumble. 

ICING tVITHOUT EGGS, NO. 2. 

Five tablespoons milk and i cup granulated sugar. Place on 
the stove and let it boil hard for 5 minutes, take it off and beat 
until cool and stiff enough to spread. Excellent for layer cakes. 

LEMON OR ORANGE ICINGS. 

These can be made by adding the juice and part of grated rind 
of the fruit to any of the icings. 

ORNAMENTAL ICING. 

Fill a paper cone with the icing, and work upon the cake, by 
slightly pressing the cone, any design you may choose. 

ROSE COLORING. 

Mix together j^ ounce each powdered alum and cream of tartar, 
I ounce cochineal, 4 ounces loaf sugar, i saltspoon soda. Boil 10 
minutes in i pint of clear, soft water ; when cool, bottle and cork 
for use. This is used for jellies, cakes, ice-cream, etc. 

TUTTI FRUTTI FROSTING. 

One-half cup water, 3 cups sugar, whites 2 eggs; boil sugar and 
water until very thick and waxy ; beat the whites of eggs to a stiff 



jq5 cake making. 

froth, and pour the syrup over them, beating all till cool ; then add 
Yi pound almonds, chopped fine ; scant ^^ cup large raisins, 
and a little citron, sliced thin. Very nice for sponge cake. 

YELLOW ICING. 

Yolk of I &%%, 9 heaping teaspoons pulverized sugar and flavor 
with vanilla or lemon. 



COOKIES, JUMBLES AND SNAPS. 



ALMOND COOKIES. 

Two pounds butter, 3 pounds sugar, i pound shelled almonds, i 
dozen eggs, i teaspoon ground cinnamon, Yz teaspoon soda, i cup 
boiling water, i lemon grated; mix butter, sugar, yolks of eggs, 
lemon, cinnamon and hot water ; beat the whites, take 3 parts, mix 
in Yi of the almonds and as much flour as it will hold ; roll them, 
and brush with the whites of eggs. Before putting in the almonds 
and sugar, almonds must be scalded, dried and cut fine. Put the 
balance of the almonds on the top after the cookies are in the tins, 
and sprinkle sugar over them. Bake in a moderate oven. This 
recipe can be varied according to your needs. 

ALMOND COOKIES, NO. 2. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, i cup sour cream, i teaspoon soda 
dissolved in the cream, i ^^g, flour enough to make a soft dough. 
Flavor with extract of almond. Mix as speedily as possible ; roll 
thin, cover with almond meats blanched and chopped, sift sugar 
over and bake quickly. 

COOKIES. 

One quart flour sifted, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 2 eggs, i cup 
sugar, Yi cup butter, 3 tablespoons milk ; mix soft and roll ; flavor 
with any extract. 



CAKE MAKING. 10/ 

COOKIES, NO. 2. 

Eight cups flour, 2 cups sugar, i cup butter, i cup cream, 2 
eggs, I heaping teaspoon baking powder ; flavor with extract orange, 
or lemon to taste. Sift white sugar over when rolled for cutting. 

COOKIES, NO. 3. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 4 eggs, 4 cups flour, 3 tablespoons 
milk, 3 teaspoons baking powder. Rub the flour and baking pow- 
der thoroughly together, cream the butter and sugar, beat the eggs 
separately, and add with a little nutmeg or cinnamon, or any 
seasoning preferred. Sift in the flour and baking powder, and add 
enough flour to mold and roll out. These cookies will keep fresh 2 
week, and if the milk is left out, a month. 

CARAWAY COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, I cup butter, 2 eggs, ^ cup milk, J^ teaspoon 
soda, I tablespoon caraway seed, or to taste. 

COCOANUT COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, i cup butter, 2 eggs, I teaspoon soda dissolved 
in I tablespoon milk, i cocoanut, and flour enough to roll. 

COCOANUT COOKIES, NO. 2. 

One cup sugar, yi cup butter, i ^g^, 2 tablespoons milk, i^ tea- 
spoons baking powder, and a little salt, i cup desiccated or grated 
cocoanut, enough flour to roll. 

COCOANUT COOKIES, NO. 3. 

Three cups sugar, I cup butter, i cup milk, 2 eggs, I cup grated 
cocoanut, 2 teaspoons baking powder, flour enough to make a dough ; 
roll out, cut in shape and bake. 

CREAM COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, 2 eggs, i cup sour cream, i cup butter, i tea- 
spoon soda, I teaspoon lemon extract or i^ nutmeg grated ; flour 
enough to make a dough as soft as it can be rolled. Delicious. 



I08 CAKE MAKING. 



CURRANT COOKIES. 



One and a half cups brown sugar, i cup butter, 2 eggs, i cup 
currants, 2 tablespoons milk, I small teaspoon soda ; cinnamon, cloves 
and nutmeg to taste. 

EGOLESS COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, i cup milk, i cup butter, ^ teaspoon soda. 
Flour enough to roll. Use vanilla, lemon or nutmeg for seasoning. 
They are very nice. 

EGOLESS COOKIES, NO. 2. 

One cup sugar, ^ cup lard or butter, ^ cup sour milk, ^ tea- 
spoon soda, just flour enough to roll, baking quickly. Add any 
flavoring you wish. No eggs are required. These are very nice if 
grated or prepared cocoanut is added. 

EGOLESS COOKIES, NO. 3. 

Two cups sugar, i cup butter or salt pork drippings, I cup milk, 
2 teaspoons cream of tartar, I teaspoon soda, flour to make a dough. 
Roll thin, bake in a quick oven. If you have no milk, cold water 
will do quite well. 

GINGER COOKIES. — Eggless. 

One cup molasses, ^ cup lard, ^ cup boiling water, I teaspoon 
soda, I teaspoon ginger, a little salt, flour to roll out. 

GINGER COOKIES, NO. 2. — Eggless. 

One cup sugar, 4 tablespoons melted butter, I teaspoon soda, 
dissolved in ^ cup boiling water, I teaspoon ginger. Flour suffi- 
cient to roll as soft as you can. 

GINGER COOKIES, NO. 3. 

One cup sugar, I cup molasses, I cup shortening, 2 beaten eggs, 
I teaspoon soda dissolved in 4 tablespoons buttermilk, I tablespoon 
ginger. Stir in flour with a spoon until stiff enough to mold with 
the hand ; roll and bake in a quick oven. 



CAKE MAKING. IO9 

GRAHAM COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, I cup sour cream, ^2 teaspoon soda, Graham 
flour enough to roll ; mix quickly, roll and bake. These require less 
heat and more time in baking than when white flour is used. 

HICKORY NUT COOKIES. 

Take 2 cups sugar, 2 eggs, ^ cup melted butter, 6 tablespoons 
milk, or a little more than ^ cup, i teaspoon cream of tartar, ^ 
teaspoon soda, and I cup chopped meats stirred into the dough. 

MOLASSES COOKIES.— Eggless. 

Three cups New Orleans molasses, i cup lard, ^ cup butter, 4 
teaspoons soda dissolved in ^ cup boiling water, I tablespoon 
ginger, I teaspoon cinnamon. 

MOLASSES COOKIES, NO. 2 — Eggless. 

Two cups molasses, i cup butter (lard or salt pork drippings will 
do well), 4 tablespoons hot water, i tablespoon ginger, I teaspoon 
salt (unless salt pork drippings are used), flour enough to roll out. 

NUTMEG COOKIES. 

Two cups white sugar, Yj^ cup butter, ^ cup sour milk, nutmeg 
or caraway seed for flavor, 2 eggs, ^ teaspoon soda, and 6 cups 
flour, or enough to roll. Roll thin, and bake in a quick oven. 

NEV^ year's COOKIES. " 

Two cups sugar, I cup butter, i cup milk, I cup corn-meal, I ^%^., 
2 teaspoons cream of tartar, I teaspoon soda, caraway seeds, flour to 
roll out thin. 

NEAPOLITAINES. 

One pound flour, ^ pound powdered sugar, yi pound butter, 6 
eggs, 6 yolks ; mix the flour, sugar, butter and eggs together, adding 
a small quantity extract of rose; if too stiff, add a little milk ; leave 
the dough ^ an hour in a cool place ; roll it out y^ inch thick, and 



no CAKE MAKING. 

cut it with a small tin cutter of any shape ; put the cakes on a pan 
slightly greased, and color the tops with beaten egg and milk, with 
some chopped almonds over them ; cook in a very hot oven. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, I cup butter, j4 cup milk, 2 eggs, 2 teaspoons 
cream of tartar, I teaspoon soda, I tablespoon caraway seeds. Mix 
soft and roll. 

SAND TARTS. 

Rub together 2 pounds sugar, 2 pounds flour, i}( pounds butter 
beaten with 3 eggs ; mix smooth and roll out and cut into cakes. 
Place hickoiy-nut or almond meats over the top. Wet over with the 
whole of an egg beaten, and sprinkle with cinnamon and fine sugar. 

JUMBLES. 

Three eggs, l}^ cups sugar, i cup butter, 2 tablespoons sour 
milk, 34^ teaspoon saleratus, flour to mix hard. After it is kneaded 
and rolled out, sift sugar over the top. Season if you like. 

JUMBLES, NO. 2. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, I cup milk, 5 eggs, I teaspoon 
cream of tartar, and }4 teaspoon soda. 

COCOANUT JUMBLES. 

Two cups sugar, i cup butter, 2 eggs, ^ grated cocoanut ; flour 
to make just stiff enough to roll out ; roll thin. 

NUT JUMBLES. 

They may owe their name to walnuts or Brazil nuts; the 
chopped kernels of either are very nice. Cocoanut, too, is excellent. 
Beat together j4 pound each of sugar and butter, and 3 eggs ; add 
^ pound chopped almonds and a little lemon juice. Stir the flour 
hghtly in, from ^ to ^ pound. Rose water or orange-flower water 
is often used as a flavoring for these little cakes. 



CAKE MAKING. Ill 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup sugar, i cup molasses, i cup butter, i teaspoon soda, I 
teaspoon ginger, I egg ; flour to make a stiff dough. 

GINGER SNAPS, NO. 2. 

One cup molasses, yi cup lard, i teaspoon soda, salt and ginger 
to taste; flour to mix hard. 

GINGER SNAPS, NO. 3. 

One coffeecup New Orleans molasses, i cup butter, i cup sugar; 
place them on the stove, and let it come to a boil, then take off 
immediately, and add i teaspoon soda and I tablespoon ginger; 
flour to roll thin and bake quickly. 

GINGER SNAPS, NO. 4. 

Rub }4 pound butter or lard into 2 pounds flour, then add J^ 
pound brown sugar, i tablespoon ginger, and a pinch of cayenne 
pepper ; mix well and pour in i pint molasses. Knead well, roll 
very thin, cut in small cakes and bake in a moderate oven until a 
light brown. If properly made, these snaps are soft and delicious, 
and will improve with age. 

LEMON SNAPS. 

One large cup sugar, ^ cup butter, ^ teaspoon soda dissolved 
in 2 teaspoons hot water, flour enough to roll thin ; flavor with 
lemon. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One and one-half cups sugar, i cup sour milk, ^ cup butter, 3 
eggs, I level teaspoon soda, spice to taste, and flour to roll. 

DOUGHNUTS NO. 2. 

Two beaten eggs, i cup sugar, 4 tablespoons melted lard, I cup 
sour milk, I teaspoon soda, a little salt, seasoning to the taste ; flour 
to make a soft dough to roll out ; fry in hot lard. 



112 CAKE MAKING. 



THE BOSS DOUGHNUTS. 



One and one-half cups sugar, i^^ cups milk, i teaspoon melted 
butter, 2 eggs, 4^ teaspoons baking powder, a little salt, not too 
much flour. 



CREAM DOUGHNUTS. 

Beat I cup each of sour cream and sugar, and 2 eggs together; 
add I level teaspoon soda, a little salt, and flour enough to roll. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

Make a sponge using I quart water and I cake yeast ; let it rise 
until very light, then add i cup lard, 2 cups sugar, 3 large mashed 
potatoes, 2 eggs, season with nutmeg; let rise again until very light. 
Roll and cut, or pull off bits of dough and shape as you like ; lay 
enough to fry at one time on a floured plate and set in the oven to 
warm ; drop in boiling lard and fry longer than cakes made with 
baking powder. 

DOUGHNUTS WITHOUT EGGS. 

Two quarts flour, i pint milk, i heaping cup sugar, and a piece of 
butter the size of an egg. Scald the milk, and when tepid add the 
sugar, the butter, ^ cup yeast, and }^ teaspoon soda. Pour this 
all into the center of the flour, using enough flour to make a sponge. 
Let it rise all night in a warm place. In the morning sprinkle in 
whatever spice you want ; then knead in the rest of the flour ; let it 
rise again until light ; knead again and roll them. After they are 
cut out let them stand 5 minutes. Fry in boiling lard. 

FRIED CAKES. 

One cup sugar, 4 tablespoons melted butter, 3 eggs, i cup milk, 
3 teaspoons baking powder ; flour to mix soft; roll }4 inch thick, 
and fry in hot lard. 

FRIED CAKES, NO. 2. 

One cup sugar, i egg, i cup milk, butter the size of a walnut, i 
teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, ^ teaspoon nutmeg; 
flour to roll out as soft as possible. 



CAKE MAKING. 



"3 



CRULLERS. 
One-half pint buttermilk, i cup butter, 2 cups sugar, and 3 eggs ; 
beat up the eggs and add the sugar and milk. Dissolve yi teaspoon 
saleratus in a little hot water; add to the mixture, with i teaspoon 
salt, ^ nutmeg grated and ^ teaspoon fresh ground cinnamon. Work 
in as much flour as will make a smooth dough ; mix thoroughly ; 
dredge the board, rolling-pin, and dough with flour; roll it out and, 
cut it in rings or fingers and fry in hot fat. 

CRULLERS, NO. 2. 
Three eggs, i cup sugar, ^ cup butter, i cup milk, 3 teaspoons 
baking powder, nutmeg, cinnamon and lemon juice, or extract, to 
taste ; flour sufficient to stiffen. Cut in strips and fry in lard. 

CRULLERS, NO. 3. 

Three eggs, 3 tablespoons melted butter, 6 tablespoons powdered 
sugar, a piece of soda as large as a bean dissolved in 2 teaspoons 
water, salt and nutmeg. Mix stiff with flour, roll thin and fry in 
hot lard. 

CRULLERS, NO. 4. 

Six eggs, I cup butter, 2 cups sugar, y^ cup milk, and flour to 
roll out easily. They should be rolled out about ^ inch thick ; cut 
with a jagging iron or knife in strips about ^ inch wide, and twist 
so as to form cakes. The fat should boil up as the cakes are put in 
and they should be constantly watched while frying. When brown 
on the underside, turn them ; when brown on both sides they are 
sufficiently done. 

SNOW BALLS, WHITE. 

One cup sugar, 6 tablespoons melted butter, 2 eggs, i cup milk, 
2 teaspoons cream of tartar, i of soda, a very little nutmeg, i tea- 
spoon salt ; mix middling soft and roll out, and cut with a small 
round cutter. Your tea-canister top may be just the right size. 
Fry in hot lard. Have ready a small bowl with a little fine white 
sugar in it. As you take them from the lard drop them in the sugar 
and roll around quickly until the surface has a very thin coat of 
sugar all over it, then lay carefully on a plate. Repeat with each 
cake separately, adding a little fresh sugar occasionally. 



CHAPTER IV. 

CONFECTIONERY. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

Granulated sugar is preferable. Candy should not be stirred 
while boiling. Cream of tartar should not be added until the syrup 
begins to boil. Butter should be put in when the candy is almost 
done. Flavors are more delicate when not boiled in the candy. 

ALMOND CANDY. 

Proceed in the same way as for cocoanut candy. Let the 
almonds be perfectly dry and do not throw them into the sugar 
until it approaches the candying point. 

ALMOND CREAMS. 

Three cups sugar, 1 3^ cups water, ^ teaspoon cream of tartar, 
flavor with vanilla. Boil until drops will almost keep their shape in 
water, and add i cup blanched almonds chopped fine, then pour 
into a bowl set in cold water ; stir steadily with a silver or wooden 
spoon until cool enough to bear the hand ; then place on a platter 
and knead to a fine even texture. If too hard, a few drops of warm 
water may be stirred in. ' If to soft it may be boiled again. When 
well molded, cut in squares or bars. Almond cream is very nice 
flavored with chocolate. 

BACHELOR BUTTONS. 

Rub 2 ounces butter into 5 ounces flour; add 5 ounces white 
sugar, and i beaten egg ; flavor; roll into small balls with the hands; 
sprinkle with sugar. Bake on tins covered with buttered paper. 

BON-BONS. 

Take some fresh candied orange rind or citron, clear off the sugar 
that adheres to it, cut these into inch squares, stick these singly on 

114 





m 



THE PURCHASED KISS 



CONFECTIONERY. IIJ 

the prong of a fork or ozier twigs, and dip them into a solution of 
sugar boiled to the consistency of candy, and place them on a dish 
rubbed with the smallest possible quantity of salad oil. When per- 
fectly cold put them into dry tin boxes with paper between each 
layer. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Two cups sugar, ^^ cup water, butter size of an egg, flavor to 
suit taste, 2 tablespoons vinegar. 

BUTTER SCOTCH, NO. 2. 
One cup molasses, I cup sugar, ^ cup butter. Boil until done. 

BOSTON CARAMELS. 

One pint grated chocolate, i quart yellow sugar, i pint New 
Orleans molasses, }4 cup milk, a piece of butter the size of a 
small egg, and vanilla flavor; boil about 25 minutes; this should 
not be so brittle as other candies. Pour in buttered tins and mark 
deeply with a knife. 

COCOANUT CANDY. 

Grate a sound cocoanut very fine, spread it on a dish, and let it 
dry naturally for 3 days, as it will not bear the heat of an oven, 
and is too oily for use when freshly broken ; 4 ounces will be sufficient 
for I pound of sugar for most tastes, but more can be used at 
pleasure. To I pound sugar, take }4 pint water, a very little white 
of Ggg, and then pour over the sugar. Let it stand for a short time, 
then place over a very clear fire, and let it boil for a few minutes ; 
then set it one side until the scum is subsided, clear it off, and boil 
the sugar until very thick ; then strew in the nut, stir and mix it 
well, and do not quit for an instant until it is finished. The pan 
should not be placed on the fire, but over it, as the nut is hable to 
burn with too fierce a heat. 

COCOANUT BON-BONS. 

Grate a large nut and put in a cool place, then take I pound 
granulated sugar, add to it i gill of water, place over the fire and 



jl5 CONFECTIONERY. 

boil till it is about to candy, remove at once and stir in the cocoa- 
nut. Let it cool, then make in balls the size of a small peach, put 
these on dishes to form, turning often till they harden. Divide the 
mixture and color ; ^ pink. These bon-bons are very ornamental 
on a supper or dinner table, and also on Christmas trees. 

CREAM COCOANUT CANDY. 

One and one-half pounds sugar, ^ cup milk, boil lo minutes; I 
grated cocoanut added ; boil until thick ; put on greased pans quite 
thick ; when partially cold cut in strips. 

COCOANUT CARAMELS. 

Two cups grated cocoanut, I cup sugar, 2 tablespoons flour, the 
whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff ; bake on a buttered paper in a quick 
oven. 

CORN CANDY. 

Pop the corn and roll it until it is quite fine. Boil some molasses, 
not as long as for candy, and pour over the corn while hot, mix it 
well, then turn out upon a buttered board, and roll it until thin and 
even ; cut into cakes. 

CORN-STARCH RATEFFES. 

One-fourth pound sweet and the same of bitter almonds, J^ 
pound corn-starch, y{_ pound rice flour, lyi pounds pulverized sugar, 
the whites of 8 eggs. Proceed the same as for macaroons, only 
drop % the size. Do not dust with sugar, but bake in a hotter 
oven. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Two cups broAvn sugar, I of molasses, i of chocolate, grated fine, 
I cup boiled milk, i tablespoon flour, butter the size of a large wal- 
nut ; boil slowly and put on flat tins to cool. Mark off while 
warm. 



CONFECTIONERY. 11/ 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS, NO. 2. 

One cup grated chocolate, 3 cups best white sugar, I cup good 
molasses (not syrup), i cup milk, and a small piece of butter about 
the size of a hickory nut. Boil all together for 20 minutes and try 
it. If it hardens when cold, it is done. Pour into buttered pans, 
and when nearly cold mark off into squares. It should be stirred all 
the time while cooking. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

Take 2 cups granulated or pulverized sugar, and ^ cup cream 
(milk will do, but cream is far better) ; mix well and put on the stove 
to boil; this must actually boil for 5 minutes; then take from the 
stove and stir briskly till it is stiff ; flavor it with vanilla ; then drop 
from a spoon on a buttered plate. If you take a little pains these 
drops may easily be of respectable shape. In the meantime have 
your chocolate broken in little bits in a bowl ; have some w^ater 
boiling in the tea-kettle, set the bowl over it ; the chocolate will soon 
melt ; remove from the heat, and with a fork roll the drops in the 
melted chocolate, and put back on the plate to harden. They are 
splendid. 

CHOCOLATE KISSES. 

One pound sugar, and 2 ounces chocolate pounded together and 
finely sifted ; mix with the whites of eggs well beaten to a froth ; 
drop on buttered paper and bake slowly. 

HOW CANDIED FRUITS ARE PREPARED. 

The beautiful and delicious candied fruits to be seen in the city 
fruit and confectioners' stores, were formerly imported almost 
entirely from France. Now California supplies many of them. The 
process of preparation has been described as follows: 

In preparing the fruit, pears, pine-apples and quinces are pared ; 
citrons are quartered, and the pits of cherries, apricots and peaches 
are removed. The fruit is then immersed in boiling water, which 
quickly penetrates the pulp, dissolves and eliminates the juice. Then 
the fruit is removed and the water drained off, leaving only the solid 



Il8 CONFECTIONERY. 

portions of pulp intact. This is then immersed in large earthen 
pans, in a syrup made by dissolving sugar in water. The syrup in 
turn penetrates the pulp, and gradually replaces the fruit juices. In 
about 6 weeks it is thoroughly impregnated with sugar, and is 
taken out and washed with pure water. If it is to be glazed it is 
dipped into a thick syrup and left to harden in the open air. This 
produces a transparent coating. If the fruit is to be crystallized, it 
is dipped in the syrup and then dried slowly in a kiln heated to 90 
degrees. This produces a granulated appearance. If properly done, 
candied fruits will bear transportation to any chmate, and will pre- 
serve their quality and flavor for a year. 

FRUIT GLACE. 

Make a syrup of i cup water, i cup granulated sugar, and the 
juice of I lemon. Boil Yz hour (never stirring) in a porcelain-lined 
kettle. Put a little syrup into a saucer of cold water to see if it is 
hard and brittle. If so, pour all the syrup into a small dish and set 
it in a pan of boiling water to keep it liquid. Dip into it cherries, 
grapes, slices of citron, slices of banana or any fruit ; coat them 
thoroughly with the syrup, and place them on a buttered paper or 
dish to harden the glace. Oranges are very nice, divided into their 
natural sections, impaled on a skewer and thus iced. Any fruit that 
has not a stem should be dipped into the hot syrup by means of a 
skewer, in order to save the fingers and coat the fruit thoroughly. 
Neat slices of ripe peaches are good thus iced, and so are walnuts. 

DELICIOUS CONFECTIONS. 

For the foundation to be used for various kinds of confectionery, 
take I pound confectioners' or granulated sugar, Y-^ teaspoon cream 
of tartar, I gill water. Mix all together and cook fast in a broad- 
bottomed granite or tin vessel until the syrup will spin a thread, or, 
w^hen cool, it will work nicely in the fingers. Set aside in same pan 
to cool 15 minutes. Then stir with a spoon until it is cool enough 
to be molded into shape. 

For Chocolate Creams. — Mold the foundation into small balls: 



CONFECTIONERY. 



119 



set aside until cold ; then roll in melted (not sweet) chocolate and 
place on buttered paper. 

For Stuffed Figs and Dates. — Split the fruit and fill with the 
foundation. 

For Concealed Almonds and Cream Nuts. — Cover with the foun- 
dation and press into shape. English walnuts in halves laid on a roll 
of foundation are delicious. 

For Tutti Frutti. — Chop raisins, figs and almonds together, mix 
with foundation into balls. Flavor the different candies to taste ; 
while stirring, add extracts. 

FRUIT CANDY. 

One and one-half pounds granulated sugar, wet with the milk of 
I cocoanut ; put into a sauce-pan and let it heat slowly ; boil rapidl}^ 
5 minutes, then add i cocoanut grated very fine, and boil 10 minutes 
longer, stirring constantly. Try a little on a cold plate, and if it 
forms a firm paste when cool, take from the fire. Pour part of it 
out on to a large tin lined with greased paper ; then add to the 
remaining cream y^ pound stoned raisins, ^ pound blanched 
almonds, i pint pecans, ^ cup chopped walnuts. Pour over the 
other cream, and when cool cut into bars and squares. 

FRENCH CANDY. 

The making of the paste is the part upon which success 
depends, and while the directions are simple, they must be strictly 
adhered to. It is impossible to give any more definite recipe than I 
Qg^ to I pound sugar, but of course the size of the eggs varies, and 
consequently when the egg is very large it will require a little more 
sugar than when small or of medium size. 

To get the paste just right can only be learned by experience. 
This, however, comes with making it once or twice. It is better to 
make it a little too soft than too stiff, as it hardens very quickly, as 
soon as it is allowed to dry. 

Now for the process: 

To each pound of sugar take the white of i egg and an equal 
quantity of cold water. 



120 CONFECTIONERY. 

Beat the egg and water together until well mixed ; then stir them 
into the sugar, which should be in a pretty large bowl, and add any 
flavor you may like — vanilla, orange or lemon. For orange or lemon 
flavor it is much better to use the fruit than the extract. 

In making large quantities it is well to make up only 2 pounds 
at a time and vary the flavor. It is also more easily handled in this 
way, because in making 6 or 8 pounds at once the paste dries before 
it can be used. When it becomes too stiff to stir take it out and 
knead it on a flat dish. This is where the experience comes in — to 
knead in just enough sugar to make it right and not get it too dr>'. 

In buying your sugar always get i pound more than the num- 
ber of eggs you expect to use. This allows for the extra sugar to 
be kneaded in, in case the eggs are large. If you only want to try 
one pound as an experiment, pick out a small egg. 

For CJiocolate Creams. — Roll the paste into balls about as large as 
shell-barks, and place on a plate so that they will not touch each 
other and put them in a cool place. 

Buy the best Baker's chocolate (be sure not to get sweet choco- 
iate, as you can do nothing with it), cut it down and put it in a bowl 
in a pan of boiling water or over the tea kettle. By the time the 
chocolate is melted the balls which you have put to dry will be ready 
to dip. Drop them in, one at a time, and roll them around. When 
they are covered, take them out by placing a fork under them — do 
not stick them with t,he fork — and put them on wax paper, such as 
grocers use to wrap butter in. You can buy the paper at any gro- 
cery store for a very small price. Don't put the chocolate on 
greased plates, as so many people will tell you to do. If you use 
the papers, when the chocolates are cool all you have to do is to lift 
the papers up and shake them off. They will be perfectly firm and 
hard outside and, if your paste is not too dry, creamy and delicious 
inside. 

You will find the fruits more easily managed than any other part 
of the candy making. 

The dates are simply cut open on one side with a sharp knife, 
the stone removed, and a strip of the paste inserted in the opening. 
Then press the date together again, allowing the paste to show. 



CONFECTIONERY. 121 

Raisins are treated in the same manner, first taking out all the 
seeds. 

The figs are quartered and the paste applied, but there is nothing 
to remove. 

For the English walnuts you put a piece of paste between the 
two halves, press them together and smooth the side ; shell-barks 
the same ; but with black walnuts a little different method is 
required on account of their irregularity. 

Take a small lump of the paste and cover it with pieces (size or 
shape no object), letting the paste come through between. 

For the filberts, take a small piece of the paste — flatten it and 
put it in the palm of your hand, and place the filbert in the middle 
of it. Draw up the sides and roll it around until smooth. 

You will find the almond the most difficult nut to work with, but 
the task can be made much easier, if you will put the nuts in a col- 
ander and run water over them to take off the dust and then let 
them drain, and use them while they are damp — not wet. It is their 
excessive dryness which makes them hard to manage, because they 
absorb the moisture of the paste, which causes it to separate. 

In buying your sugar be sure to have it free from lumps. Ask 
for " confectioners' sugar," some call it " lozenge sugar." 

After you get your candies made, you will say, " What shall I do 
with my scraps? It seems a pity to waste all this," for you will find 
a great deal of chocolate sticking fast to your bowl that you cannot 
use for the cream chocolates, and also a quantity of little fine pieces 
of all kinds of nuts which you cannot use for anything else. Chop 
these nuts very fine in a wooden bowl, put them into the chocolate 
bowl, and they will take up every bit of the chocolate that is left. 
Add to this a httle sugar (scraps of the paste, if you have any left) 
and a little cinnamon ; roll out and cut into pieces about an inch 
long, and you have "Jim Crows," which are quite an addition to 
your candy box. You will have to regulate the quantity of sugar 
and cinnamon by the amount of scraps you have left ; and if they 
seem too dry to work up, it will not hurt to add just a little water 
to them. Be sure to keep the chocolate hot all the time you are 
working with it until you roll it out. It will harden as soon as it cools. 



122 CONFECTIONERY. 

HICKORY-NUT CANDY. 

Boil 2 cups sugar, ^ cup water, without stirring, until thick 
enough to spin a thread; flavor; set the dish off into cold water; 
stir quickly until white, then stir in i cup hickory-nut meats ; turn 
into a flat tin, and when cool cut into squares. 

HOREHOUND CANDY. 

Prepare a strong decoction, by boiling 2 ounces of the dried herb 
in lyi pints water for about yi hour; strain this, and add 3^ 
pounds brown sugar ; boil over a hot fire until it reaches the requis- 
ite degree of hardness, when it may be poured out in flat tin trays, 
previously well greased, and marked into sticks or squares with a 
knife, as it becomes cool enough to retain its shape. 

LEMON-CREAM CANDY. 

Six pounds best white sugar, strained juice of 2 lemons, grated 
peel of I lemon, i teaspoon soda, 3 cups clear water. Steep the 
grated peel of the lemon in the juice for I hour; strain, squeezing 
the cloth hard to get out all the strength. Pour the water over the 
sugar, and, when nearly dissolved, set it over the fire and bring to a 
boil. Stew steadily until it hardens in cold water ; stir in the 
lemon ; boil i minute ; add the dry soda, stirring in well ; and, 
instantly, turn out upon broad, shallow dishes. Pull as soon as you 
can handle it into long white ropes, and cut into lengths when 
brittle. 

Vanilla cream candy is made in the same way, with the substitu- 
tion of vanilla flavoring for the lemon-juice and peel. 

LEMON AND PEPPERMINT DROPS. 

Take of dry granulated sugar a convenient quantity ; place it in 
a saucepan having a lip fromi which the contents may be poured or 
dropped. Add a very little water, just enough to make, with the 
sugar, a stiff paste ; 2 ounces water to I pound sugar is about the 
right proportion. Set it over the fire and allow it to nearly boil, 
keeping it continually stirred. It must not actually come to a full 



CONFECTIONERY. I2-- 

boil, but must be removed from the fire just as soon as the bubbles, 
denoting that the boiling point is reached, begin to rise. Allow the 
syrup to cool a little, stirring all the time ; add strong essence of 
peppermint or lemon to suit the taste, and drop on tins or sheets of 
smooth white paper. The dropping is performed by tilting the ves- 
sel slightly, so that the contents will run out, and with a small piece 
of stiff wire the drops may be stroked off on to the tins or paper. 
They should be kept in a warm place for a few hours to dry. In the 
season of fruits delicious drops may be made by substituting the 
juice of fresh fruits, as strawberry, raspberry, lemon, pine-apple or 
banana, or any of these essences may be used. 

MERINGUES. 

Take i pound powdered sugar, and add to it the beaten whites 
of 8 eggs (slowly), until it forms a stiff froth ; fill a tablespoon with 
the paste, and smooth it over with another spoon to the desired 
shape ; sift a little sugar over a sheet of paper, drop the meringues 
about 2 inches apart ; dust a little sugar over them, and bake in a 
quick oven with the door left open part way, so they can be contin- 
ually watched ; when fawn colored take them out ; remove them 
from the paper with a thin knife ; scrape out of each a little of the soft 
part. They may be neatly arranged around a dish of whipped 
cream, or filled with ice cream. If whipped cream is used, they 
would be improved by the addition of a little bright jelly inside each 
meringue. 

CREAM MERINGUES. 

Four eggs (the whites only) whipped stiff, with i pound powdered 
sugar, lemon or vanilla flavoring. When very stiff, heap in the 
shape of ^^ an egg upon stiff letter-paper lining the bottom of your 
baking-pan. Have them bake ^ inch apart; Do not shut the oven 
door closely, but leave space through w'hich you can watch them. 
When they are a light yellow-brown, take them out and cool quickly. 
Slip a thin-bladed knife under each ; scoop out the soft insideand 
fill with cream whipped as for charlotte russe. They are very fine. 
The oven should be very hot. 



124 CONFECTIONERY. 

MACAROON. 

Pound in a mortar i pound blanched sweet almonds, and i^ 
pounds lump sugar until they are fine ; then add >^ pound corn-starch, 
^^ pound rice or wheat flour ; mix into a fine smooth batter with the 
whites of about 8 eggs. Drop the mixture in small cakes on a sheet 
of paper, dust with sugar, and bake in a steady oven. They should 
be baked a fawn color. 

MACAROONS, NO. 2. 

Pound fine the meats of hickory-nuts and add ground nutmegs 
and spice ; make frosting as for cakes, stir in the meats and spices 
putting in enough to make it convenient to handle, flour the hands, 
make the mixture into balls the size of nutmegs, lay them on but- 
tered tins, giving room to spread, and bake in a quick oven. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. 

Three-quarters pound blanched almonds, i pound powdered 
sugar, ^ pound grated chocolate, the whites of 3 eggs beaten to a 
froth; mix all together to a stiff paste; drop them on a sheet of 
v/hite paper on a pan, and bake in a moderate oven. 

MARSH MALLOWS. 

Dissolve I pound clean gum Arabic in i quart water ; strain, 
add I pound granulated sugar, and place over the fire stirring con- 
tinually until the sugar is dissolved, and the mixture has become the 
consistency of honey. Next add gradually the whites of 8 eggs well 
beaten, stirring the mixture all the time until it loses its stickiness 
and does not adhere to the fingers when touched. The mass may 
now be poured into long, shallow tin-pans, dusted with starch, and 
when cool divided into small squares. These squares may be cov 
ered with a coating of chocolate, which makes them very nice. 

To prepare the chocolate, take 3/^ cake of sweet choco- 
late, shave off fine and put into a bowl, set it in boiling water, 
to melt. As soon as the chocolate is sufficiently melted dip the 
marsh mallows into the chocolate, giving each square a coating of 



CONFECTIONERY. 



125 



brown, using a fork in handling them. If desired the marsh mal- 
low paste may be flavored with vanilla, or the paste may be divided 
into two equal parts, ^ flavored vanilla and coated with the choco- 
late and the other flavored with lemon. 

When they become stale, marsh mallows may be put in the oven 
and slightly browned. 

MAPLE CANDY. 

Four cups maple syrup ; boil until it cracks in water, and just 
before taking from the fire put in a piece of butter the size of an 
egg. If preferred waxy do not let it cook so long. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

Two cups molasses, i cup sugar, i teaspoon vinegar, piece of but- 
ter size of a walnut. Cook slowly a long time until it "strings" 
from the spoon when taken up ; pour upon a greased tin-pan ; then 
pull it until it becomes white. 

WHITE MOLASSES CANDY. 

Take 2 pounds refined sugar (termed by grocers " Coffee C "), i 
pint pure sugar-house syrup, and i pint best Porto Rico or New 
Orleans molasses. Boil together until it hardens, as above described, 
add I teaspoon soda, and work in the usual manner. 

TO CANDY NUTS. 

Three cups sugar, i cup water ; boil until it hardens when 
dropped in water, then flavor with lemon. It must not boil after 
the lemon is put in. Put a nut on the end of a fine knitting-needle, 
take out and turn on the needle until it is cold. If the candy gets 
cold set on the stove for a few minutes. Malaga grapes and oranges 
quartered, may be candied in the same way. 

PEANUT CANDY. 

Two cups sugar, ^ cup water ; let it boil, then add j4 teaspoon 
cream of tartar, dissolved in a little cold water. Cook until, when 



126 CONFECTIONERY. 

dropped in cold water, it is brittle ; then add a small piece of butter, 
size of an English walnut ; cook a few minutes longer. Stir in 2 
cups peanut kernels, and pour into buttered pans. 

POP-CORN BALLS. 

Add I ounce white gum arabic to ^ pint water, and let it stand 
until dissolved. Strain, add i pound refined sugar and boil until 
when cooled it becomes veiy thick, so much so as to be stirred with 
difficulty. To ascertain when it has reached this point, a little may 
be cooled in a saucer. A convenient quantity of the freshly-popped 
corn having been placed in a milk-pan, enough of the warm syrupy 
candy is poured on and mixed by stirring, to cause the kernels to 
adhere in a mass, portions of which may be formed into balls by 
pressing them into the proper shape with the hands. Ordinary 
molasses, or sugar-house syrup may be used as well, by being boiled 
to the same degree, no gum being necessary with these materials. 
Corn-cake is prepared in a similar manner. This mass, while warm, 
is put into tins and pressed by rollers into thin sheets, which are 
afterwards divided into small, square cakes. 

SUGAR CANDY. 

Six cups white sugar, i cup vinegar, I cup water, i tablespoon 
butter in at the last, with i teaspoon soda dissolved in hot water. 
Boil without stirring 3^ hour. Flavor to suit the taste. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 

Shell and blanch almonds. When perfectly dry spread in a 
dripping-pan and stir up with a tablespoon melted butter. Set in 
the oven until they brown, stirring often to prevent scorching. 
They should be lightly browned. Take them out and sprinkle 
thickly with salt, tossing them about in it, so that all have a gener- 
ous seasoning, Eat with croutons. 

TAFFY. 

Either of the two kinds of molasses candy, if poured from the 
kettle into tin trays without working, will produce a fine plain taffy. 



CONFECTIONERY. 12^ 

It may be left in one sheet the size of the tray, or, when shghtly 
cold, may be marked off in squares. 

EFFERTON TAFFY. 

This is a favorite English confection. To make it, take 3 pounds 
best brown sugar and boil with i^ pints water, until the candy 
hardens in cold water ; then add ^ pound sweet-flavored, fresh but- 
ter, which will soften the candy. Boil a few minutes until it again 
hardens and pour it into trays. Flavor with lemon if desired. 

FILBERT TRIFLES. 

Beat the whites of 8 eggs into I pound pulverized sugar, over a 
slow fire, until very light ; then add 4 ounces blanched filberts, cut 
fine ; lay on white paper and bake slowly. 

VANILLA CARAMELS. 

Two cups granulated sugar, 7^ cup milk, filled up with butter — 
not melted — i teaspoon vanilla. Stir till it begins to boil and not 
again. Cook about 25 minutes, or until it turns a light brown. 
Pour out on buttered tins, and when partly cooled mark off in 
squares with sharp knife. These are equal to confectioners' caramels. 

VINEGAR CANDY. 

One quart sugar, i pint water, 4 tablespoons vinegar, butter size 
of an egg, I teaspoon vanilla. Boil 20 minutes and pull it. 

WALNUT CANDY. 

The meats of hickory-nuts, English walnuts, or black walnuts 
may be used according to preference in that regard. After removal 
from the shells in as large pieces as practicable, they are to be placed 
on the bottoms of tins, previously greased, to the depth of about ^ 
inch. Next, boil 2 pounds brown sugar, ^ pint water, and I gill 
good molasses, until a portion of the mass hardens when cooled. 
Pour the hot candy on the meats and allow it to remain until hard. 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 



APPLE SNOW. 

Pare, core and bring to boil, in as little water as possible, 6 tart 
apples ; cool, strain, beat well, and add the well-whipped whites of 
3 ^ggs, sweeten to taste, beat well until a dish of snow is the result. 
Flavor with lemon or vanilla, and serve with sweetened cream. 

APPLE SNOW, NO. 2. 

Bake 6 large, tart apples (northern spies are best) and put them 
through a sieve, allowing the seeds to be crushed. When cool beat 
to a stiff froth the whites of 3 eggs in a large platter. Now beat 
in alternately i tablespoon of the apple and i of granulated sugar 
until the apple is used, beat thoroughly after each spoonful. This 
is the snow. Now make a custard of the yolks of the eggs, adding 
a tablespoon of corn-starch. Fill dessert dishes ]4, full of custard, 
then place snow upon it in each dish ; put in a cool place until ready 
to use. The snow should not be made more than 3 hours before 
using. 

APPLE FLOAT. 
One cup pulverized sugar, I cup cream beaten to a stiff froth, 5 
eggs beaten light, i lemon, 4 large apples grated, 3 tablespoons gel- 
atine dissolved in warm water. Fills I quart bowl. 

ALMOND CREAM. 

Take 3 ounces sweet and I ounce bitter almonds, blanch them ; 
put them in a pan over the fire, stirring them continually. As soon 
as they have acquired a fine yellow color, take them off the fire, and 
when cold pound them, into fine pieces ; then add i pint cream or 
rich milk, nearly boiling, and 3 or 4 heaping tablespoons sugar, and 

128 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 1 29 

J^ package gelatine which has been dissolved in a little water. Put 
it upon the ice, and when about to thicken stir it until it is very 
smooth, then stir in lightly i pint whipped cream and put it into 
a mold. 

ALMOND CUSTARD. 

Almond custard is very nice and perfectly harmless to an irrita- 
ble stomach. The ingredients are i pint milk, ^ teacup sugar, ]^ 
pound blanched almonds pounded fine, 2 spoons rose-water and the 
yolks 4 eggs. Stir over a slow fire till thick as cream. Pour into a 
dish ; beat the whites of the eggs with a little sugar and lay on top. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Whip I pint cream to a stiff froth, and set in a colander i min- 
ute to allow the unwhipped portion to drip away ; boil i pint milk 
and yi cup sugar; flavor with vanilla and add ^A package gelatine 
dissolved in water, remove from the fire and cool ; add the well- 
beaten whites of 4 eggs. When the mixture has become quite cold 
add the whipped cream gradually until it is well mixed ; put into 
individual molds i teaspoon of some bright jelly or jam, then pour 
the mixture and place in an ice-chest until wanted. This cream 
may be flavored in any way desired. 

COFFEE BAVARIAN CREAM. 

One pint milk, add 4 tablespoons ground coffee, cook until well 
mixed and strain through a jelly-bag; add the beaten yolks of 4 
eggs, I cup sugar, and cook as for a custard ; set in a cold place, and 
when cool add l pint whipped cream in which has been stirred ^ 
box gelatine dissolved, and stand in a cool place until it thickens. 

CHOCOLATE BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Cover ^ box gelatine with ^ cup cold water, and let soak 20 
minutes. Whip i pint cream, grate 2 ounces chocolate, and boil in 
I pint milk, add the gelatine and stir until dissolved. Take from 
the fire and sweeten with ^ cup sugar, flavor with vanilla, and turn 
into a pan to cool ; stir until it begins to thicken, then add the 
9 



130 CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 

whipped cream ; stir until mixed and pour in a mold to. harden. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Pick I gallon straAvberries, squeeze them through a colander, and 
sweeten the juice. Cover I box gelatine with water, and soak ^ 
hour ; stand over boiling water and melt, add the strawbeny juice, 
and strain in a tin pan. Set on ice, and stir until it thickens, then 
add 1^2 pint whipped cream, mix thoroughly. Pour in a mold and 
set in a cool place to harden. Serve with whipped cream. 

To flavor with peach, boil i^ dozen choice fruit, sweeten and 
strain through a colander; add the dissolved gelatine and i teacup 
cream, set on ice, and when it thickens stir until smooth, add the 
whipped cream, and mold. 

To flav^or with pine-apple, cut fine, boil with J4 pound pulverized 
sugar, strain through a colander, add the dissolved gelatine, set on 
ice, and when it thickens stir until smooth, add the whipped cream, 
and mold. Canned pine-apples may be used instead of fresh. In 
all these never add whipped cream until the mass is cool and begins 
to thicken. 

ALMOND BLANC MANGE. 

Take 4 ounces sweet almonds and j4 ounce bitter almonds, 
blanched ; pound them in a mortar, moistening them occasionally 
with orange-flower water; mix this with i quart fresh cream; set 
the cream and almonds on the fire, stirring constantly; when it 
comes to a scald pour in }4 box gelatine which has been previously 
dissolved by soaking in }4 cup cold water I hour. Eaten with 
sweetened cream. 

CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE. 

Take ^ box gelatine soaked in i cup water i hour, ^ cup grated 
chocolate, rubbed smooth in a little milk. Boil 2 cups milk, then 
add the gelatine and chocolate, and i cup sugar ; boil all together 8 
or 10 minutes. Remove all from the fire, and when nearly cold beat 
into this the whipped whites of 3 eggs, flavored with vanilla. 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. I3I 

Should be served cold with custard made of the yolks, or sugar and 
cream. Set the molds in a cold place. 

CORN-STARCH BLANC MANGE. 

Take I quart milk, and put i pint upon the stove to heat ; in the 
other pint mix 4 heaping tablespoons corn-starch and ^ cup sugar ; 
when the milk is hot, pour in the cold milk with the corn-starch and 
sugar thoroughly mixed in it, and stir all together until there are no 
lumps and it is thick ; flavor with lemon ; take from the stove, and 
add the whites of 3 eggs beaten to a stiff' froth. 

Custard for the Above. — One pint milk boiled with a little 
salt in it ; beat the yolks of 3 eggs with ^ cup sugar, and add to 
the boiling milk ; stir well, but do not let it boil until the eggs are 
put in ; flavor to taste. 

FRUIT BLANC MANGE. 

Stew nice, fresh fruit (cherries, raspberries and strawberries are 
best), or canned ones will do ; strain off the juice, and sweeten 
to taste ; place it over the fire in a double kettle until it boils ; while 
boiling, stir in corn-starch wet with a little cold water, allowing 2 
tablespoons corn-starch to i pint juice ; continue stirring until sufifi- 
ciently cooked, then pour into molds wet in cold water, and set 
away to cool. Serve with cream and sugar. 

CALEDONIAN CREAM. 

Two ounces raspberry jam or jelly, 2 ounces red currant jelly, 2 
ounces sifted loaf sugar, the whites of 2 eggs put into a bowl and 
beaten with a spoon for ^ of an hour. This makes a very pretty 
cream, and is good and economical. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE ELEGANTE. 

One-half package gelatine dissolved in a very little water; I 
quart whipped cream, flavored and sweetened to taste. Line a 
mold with sponge or white cake ; stir the gelatine into the cream 
and pour into the prepared mold. The cake may be soaked in a 
little wine if preferred. 



132 CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One pint cream well whipped ; beat 5 tablespoons sugar with 
the yolks of 4 eggs ; simmer together y^ pint milk and Yz ounce 
isinglass or gelatine till the gelatine is dissolved, then mix with the 
beaten yolks and the sugar, then the whites of the eggs well beaten, 
then the whipped cream ; flavor with i gill wine and set it aside tc 
cool ; pour it into a mold which was previously lined with pieces of 
sponge cake. When it is stiff and solid turn out into a dish and 
sift sugar over the top. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE, NO. 2. 

One pint sweet cream whipped light, % ounce gelatine dissolved 
in I cup boiling milk, whites of 2 eggs, l cup powdered sugar; flavor. 
Mix cream, eggs and sugar, beat in gelatine when cold ; line a mold 
with sponge cake and pour over. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE, NO. 3. — Without Gelatine. 

Make a sponge cake. Beat i pint sweet cream and the whites 
of 3 eggs to a stiff froth ; sweeten the cream to taste, flavor with Y 
teaspoon extract of almond, and mix the cream and egg froth; 
blanch and split I dozen almonds and place them on the cake, then 
pour over the cake the cream and froth of eggs. 

FRUIT CHARLOTTE. 

Line a dish with sponge cake ; place upon the bottom, in the 
centre of the dish, grated pine-apple ; cover with a whipped cream 
blanc mange. Keep back a little of the cream to pour over the top 
after it is poured out of the mold. 

CREAM A LA MODE. 

Put Y pound white sugar into a deep glass dish, and the juice of 
I large orange and i lemon ; to i ounce isinglass or gelatine add i 
pint water; let it simmer down )^, and when cool strain it into the 
glass dish, and by degrees add i^ pints whipped cream ; stir until 
cool, and place it on ice to stiffen. 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 1 33 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

This can be made the same as Bavarian Cream by using 2 cakes 
sweet chocolate, melted and stirred smooth in 2 tablespoons water, 
and adding to the yolks of the eggs. 

This should be very nice and can be made in a great variety of 
ways. It is more attractive with a meringue piled on top of each 
cup, and browned. Or pour some of the hot chocolate into stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs, and put this light chocolate colored foam on 
the top of each cup. The yolks of the eggs enrich the chocolate. 
Flavor with vanilla or bitter almond. 

MOTTLED CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

Make any rich cream or blanc mange of either gelatine or corn- 
starch. Divide into 2 parts, into I of which stir sufficient melted 
chocolate to give a pleasant taste. Flavor with vanilla. The 
following is very nice : Soak ]^ cup gelatine in about ]^ cup cold 
water for an hour or more. Fill the cup with boiling water and keep 
hot till dissolved. Meanwhile beat the yolks of 3 eggs with part of 
yi cup sugar, and pour on this i pint boiling milk. Add the 
remainder of sugar and cook until it thickens, stirring constantly. 
Beat the whites of 3 eggs stiff, and pour the mixture, while boiling 
hot into them. This must be done slowly and the eggs stirred 
briskly. Add the gelatine water, flavor with i teaspoon vanilla, and 
divide into 2 parts, into I of which stir i square of Baker's chocolate 
dissolved. Allow both mixtures to cool, stirring occasionally. Pour 
a little of the dark into the mold, and allow to partly harden, then 
add some of the light, and so on till all is used. Set the unused 
where it will keep warm and not harden. This is very pretty made 
in small glasses on the top of which pile a meringue of both white 
and chocolate mottled. 

GENOESE CREAM. 

One pint milk, i tablespoon flour, i tablespoon sugar ; boil until 
it thickens ; add the yolks of 3 eggs and a piece of butter the size 
of an egg ; flavor with lemon or vanilla. Cover the bottom of the 



134 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 



dish with sponge cake, spreading one side of the cake with currant 
or other jelly. Pour on the cream and dust the top with sugar. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

Put I ounce soaked isinglass, 6 ounces loaf sugar, and i pint 
milk, into a sauce-pan ; boil slowly and stir all the time until the 
isinglass is dissolved; strain the mixture, and, when cool, mix it 
with I pint thick cream ; flavor with I teaspoon extract bitter 
almond, and I gill rose-water. Beat thoroughly until it thickens ; 
pour into a large or into individual molds and put into an ice-box 
until wanted. 

MANIOCA CREAM. 

Three tablespoons manioca, i pint milk, 3 eggs, vanilla and 
sugar to taste ; soak the manioca in water till soft ; boil the milk ; 
while boiling stir in the manioca and the yolks of the eggs beaten 
with the sugar; when cooked suf^ciently pour into a dish to cool; 
when cold, add the vanilla ; beat the whites of the eggs until stiff, 
sweeten and flavor them and stir part into the cream, putting the 
rest on top. 

ORANGE FROTH. 

One box Coxe's gelatine, soaked 2 hours in 2 cups cold water, 
6 small tart oranges, 1% cups sugar, 4 eggs, the whites only. Peel 
and squeeze the oranges and put rind, juice and the sugar and 
soaked gelatine over the fire in a double boiler. When the two 
latter are dissolved, strain through a flannel into a dish to grow cool. 
When almost hard beat into the jelly the whipped whites of the 
eggs, and beat until both are a stiff froth. Set to form in a plain 
mold, and when formed heap by the spoonful in a glass dish. 

RUSSE CREAM. 

One-half box gelatine soaked in a little water i hour, I quart 
milk, I cup sugar and 4 eggs. Mix sugar, milk, yolks of eggs, and 
gelatine together ; put in a pail, set in a kettle of water and boil 20 
minutes. Beat the whites of the eggs stiff, and stir into the custard 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. I35 

after taking off the fire. Flavor with vanilla and pour into molds. 
Serve with sugar and cream or with custard. 

ROCK CREAM. 

Boil rice until quite soft in new milk, sweeten with powdered 
loaf sugar. Pile it in a dish and lay on it in different places lumps 
of currant jelly, or any kind of preserves ; beat the whites of 5 eggs 
to a stiff froth ; add flavoring and i tablespoon thick cream ; drop 
it over the rice, forming a rock of cream. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

Take ^ box gelatine, cover with water and let stand about ^ 
hour. Take i quart milk and let it boil up once or twice. Beat 5 
eggs veiy light, and add sufficient sugar to sweeten them, and mix 
well together. Add the melted gelatine to the boiling milk, and 
when perfectly dissolved pour it upon the sugar and eggs. Return 
it to the fire for a few minutes, stirring all the time. Season with 
vanilla and pour into molds. Serve with cream. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

One cup tapioca soaked 8 hours in milk enough to cover; then 
take I quart milk, place on the stove, and when it boils add the 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs and the tapioca ; let it boil up, then stir the 
beaten whites very thoroughly through it. Sweeten and flavor to 
taste. Eat cold. 

TAPIOCA CREAM, NO. 2. 

Three tablespoons tapioca soaked in water over night. In the 
morning pour over I quart milk, boil 10 minutes, then add i cup 
sugar, yolks of 3 eggs, \\ ell beaten ; pour in a dish, beat the whites, 
spread over the top and brown lightly. 

TAPIOCA ICE. 

One cup tapioca soaked over night. In the morning put it on 
the stove, and when it begins to boil put in a large cup sugar and 
boil till it is clear. Clear a good-sized pine-apple free from all specks 



136 CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 

and chop fine. Pour the tapioca boihng hot over the pine-apple and 
stir together. The hot tapioca will sufficiently moisten the pine- 
apple. Pour into molds and when cold eat with sugar and cream, 
lioil the tapioca in an earthen vessel to make it white. Canned 
pine-apple is very nice for this. 

VELVET CREAM. 

Put Yz box gelatine in I quart milk, with the yolks of 3 eggs, on 
the stove ; stir until it comes to a soft custard. When cold, beat 
the whites of the eggs to a froth, add 6 tablespoons white sugar, i 
of flavoring, and stir in the mixture. 

VELVET CREAM, NO. 2. 

Two tablespoons strawberry jelly, 2 tablespoons currant jelly, 2 
tablespoons pulverized sugar, whites 2 eggs beaten stiff, i pint 
cream ; whip the cream and fill wine-glasses ^ full and fill up with 
the above mixture beaten to a cream. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

Place cream over ice until thoroughly chilled, and whip with an 
egg-beater or whip-churn until it froths. While whipping place 
froth on a sieve, and return to bowl to be re-whipped all that passes 
through. When cream is difficult to whip, add to it and beat with 
it the white of an egg. Sweetened and flavored this is a choice des- 
sert alone, but it may be served in various ways. Baked apples, and 
fresh or preserved berries are delicious with it. Jelly-glasses, ^ full 
of jelly and filled up with cream, make a very wholesome and 
delicious dessert. 

WHIPPED CREAM, NO. 2. 

One and one-half pints good rich cream sweetened and flavored 
to taste, 3 teaspoons vanilla; whip to a stiff froth. Dissolve ^ 
ounce best gelatine in i small teacup hot water, and when cool pour 
into the cream ; stir thoroughly, pour in molds aud set on ice, or in 
a very cool place. 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 1 37 

WHIPPED CREAM SAUCE. 

Mix a plateful of whipped cream, flavored with vanilla, the 
beaten whites of 2 eggs and pulverized sugar to taste, all together ; 
pile a bank of this mixture in the center of a platter and form a cir- 
cle of little fruit puddings, steamed in cups, around it, or it is nice 
for corn-starch, blanc manges, etc. 

Single cream is cream that has stood on the milk 12 hours. It 
is the best for tea and coffee. Double cream stands on its 
milk 24 hours, and cream for butter frequently stands 48 hours. 
Cream that is to be whipped , should not be butter cream, lest in 
whipping it change to butter. 

RASPBERRY CREAM. 

One quart good cream, i pint fresh raspberries ; mash and rub 
the fruit through a fine sieve or strainer, to extract the seeds, bring 
the cream to a boil (having reserved I pint for froth), and add it to 
the berries while it remains hot, sweeten with powdered sugar to 
taste, let it become cold. Now raise cream which has been reserved 
to a froth with a beater, take off the froth and lay it on a sieve to 
drain ; fill dish or glasses with the cream and place froth on top. 
Very nice. Any kind of berries, jam or jelly is good, and can be 
used without straining. 

ALMOND CUSTARD. 

One pint new milk, i cup pulverized sugar, ]^ pound almonds 
blanched and pounded, 2 teaspoons rose-water, the yolks of 4 eggs; 
stir this over a slow fire until it is of the consistency of cream, then 
remove it quickly and put it in a glass dish. Beat the whites with 
a little sugar added to the froth, and lay on top. 

ALMOND CUSTARD, NO. 2. 

Soak Yz box gelatine in enough cold water to cover it, then dis- 
solve in I pint rich milk, add 2 well-beaten eggs, 4 tablespoons 
sugar, and I tablespoon extract bitter almond and strain. Add i 
cup whipped cream, and beat light ; pour into a deep glass dish, 
and when set stick a few blanched almonds over the top. 



138 CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 

APPLE CUSTARD. 

Peel and core tart, medium-sized apples, place in a deep earthen 
dish with i pint water and I cup sugar ; cover and place in the oven, 
and simmer until clear, but not broken. Remove with a skimmer 
into the dish in which they are to be served. A soft custard made 
of the yolks of 4 eggs to i quart rich milk, and piled up on the 
compote, renders it a fine dish. The whites of the eggs should be 
whipped and placed on top, with a small island of currant or rasp- 
berry jam or jelly in the centre. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

Allow 5 eggs to I quart milk, and I tablespoon sugar to each 
^SS'i set the milk in a kettle of boiling water until it scalds; then, 
after dipping a little of the milk onto the eggs and beating up, turn 
into the scalded milk and stir until it thickens. Flavor to taste. 

This may be made in like manner by using 2 tablespoons corn- 
starch and 2 eggs. Served with grated cocoanut it is very nice. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

One quart milk, 5 eggs, a pinch of salt, sugar and flavor to taste ; 
boil the milk; when cool, stir in the beaten eggs and sugar, pour 
into cups, set them in pans of water, and bake ; if baked too long 
it will become watery. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 

Make a boiled custard with I quart milk, the yolks of 6 eggs, 6 
tablespoons sugar, and ^ cup grated vanilla chocolate. Boil until 
thick enough, stirring all the time. When nearly cold flavor with 
vanilla. Pour into cups and put the whites of the eggs, beaten with 
some powdered sugar, on the top. 

COCOANUT CUSTARD. 

To I pound grated cocoanut allow I pint scalding milk, 6 ounces 
sugar. Beat well the yolks of 6 eggs and stir them alternately into 
the milk with the cocoanut and sugar. Pour this into a dish lined 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. I39 

with paste and bake 20 minutes ; or, if preferred, treat the milk, 
cocoanut, eggs and sugar as for boiled custard, and serve in cups. 

COCOANUT CUSTARD, NO. 2. 

Make a good boiled custard, flavor with i teaspoon bitter almond 
essence, grate i cocoanut, and when the custard is quite cold (it 
should be poured when warm into a glass bowl), strew the cocoanut 
on the top. Sift white sugar over this. 

CARAMEL CUSTARD. 

Put 2 dessertspoons crushed sugar into a tin pan ; let it stand on 
the stove till it begins to brown, then stir constantly till it is thick, 
black syrup. Pour it into I quart scalding milk ; add 6 ounces white 
sugar and the yolks of 6 eggs. Beat and pour into cups, set in a 
pan of hot water in the oven and bake 20 minutes. 

CUSTARD WITHOUT EGGS. 

Mix I large tablespoon corn-starch and 2 tablespoons sugar with 
a little cold milk. Boil i pint milk with a bay leaf (a few cents' 
worth of bay leaves to be had at the drug stores will last a long time 
in cooking). Take out the leaf and pour the milk over the corn- 
starch, stirring all the time. Let it boil up for a few minutes, and 
turn it out in a dish over stewed apples, peaches or other fruit. You 
can improve apples by boiling a little cider with them ; use light 
brown or yellow sugar for sweetening stewed fruit. 

CUP CUSTARD. 

Beat 5 eggs with 3/^ cup white sugar, flavoring, and I quart milk ; 
pour into cups and place in a baking-pan of water. Bake in a slow 
oven. 

LEMON CUSTARD. 

Take the yolks of 4 eggs and the whites of 2, i cup sugar, I cup 
cold water, butter ^ the size of an egg, i tablespoon corn-starch, 
rubbed smooth in a little cold water, the grated peel of a large lemon, 
and the juice. Beat all together. Bake in custard cups, leaving a 



140 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 



space at the top. Whip the whites of the other 2 eggs, adding 3 
tablespoons powdered sugar. When the custard is done, take from 
the oven fill the top space with the whipped egg, spread on 
smoothly. Return to the oven till a delicate brown. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Make a custard of the yolks of 6 eggs, i quart milk, small pinch 
salt, sugar to taste ; beat and strain yolks before adding to the milk; 
place custard in a large tin pan, and set in stove, stirring constantly 
until it boils, then remove, flavor with lemon or rose, and pour into 
a dish (a shallow, wide one is best), spread smoothly over the boiling 
hot custard the well-beaten wdiites, grating some loaf sugar (some 
add grated cocoanut) on the top. Set the dish in a pan of ice- 
water and serve cold. Some prepare the whites by placing a 
tablespoon at a time on boiling water, lifting them out carefully, 
when cooked, with a skimmer and laying them gently on the float. 
This is the " old reliable recipe." 

FLOATING ISLAND, NO. 2. 

Into ^ pint cream put enough sugar to make it very sweet, and 

the juice and rind of i lemon 
grated. Beat it for 10 minutes. Cut 
French rolls into thin slices, and lay 
them on a round dish on the top of 
the cream. On this put a layer of 
apricot or currant jam, and some 
more slices of roll. Pile upon this, 
very high, a whip made of damson 

jam, and the whites of 4 eggs. It should be rough to imitate a 

rock. Garnish with fruits or sweetmeats. 




IRISH MOSS. 

Soak I scant handful Irish moss in soda water, until it swells ; 
then squeeze the moss until it is free from water, and put it in a tin 
bucket which contains 6 pints milk. Set the bucket in a large iron 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. I4I 

pot which holds several pints of hot water; stir seldom, and let it 
remain until it will jell slightly by dropping on a cold plate. Strain 
through a sieve, sweeten and flavor to taste. Rinse a mold or a 
crock with tepid water; pour in the mixture and set it away to cool. 
In a few hours it will be palatable. Eat with cream and sugar. 
Some add jelly. 

MOONSHINE. 

Beat the whites of 6 eggs into a very stiff froth, then add grad- 
ually 6 tablespoons powdered sugar, beating for not less than 15 
minutes, then beat in i heaping tablespoon preserved peaches cut 
in tiny bits. In serving, pour in each saucer some rich cream sweet- 
ened and flavored with vanilla, and on the cream plage a liberal 
portion of the moonshine. This quantity is enough for 7 or 8 
persons. 

JELLY CUSTARD. 

One quart milk, 6 eggs, whites and yolks, i cup sugar, flavoring 
to taste, some red and yellow jelly, raspberry is good for one, 
orange jelly for the other. Make a custard of the eggs, milk and 
sugar; boil gently until it thickens well; flavor when cold ; fill your 
custard glasses 7^ full and heap up with the two kinds of jelly, the 
red upon some,^the yellow upon others. 

ORANGE SNOW. 

One ounce isinglass dissolved in i pint boiling water ; when it is 
dissolved strain it, and let it stand until it is nearly cold ; then mix 
it with the juice of 6 oranges and i lemon, the whites of 3 eggs, and 
sugar to taste, whisk the whole together until it is white and looks 
like a sponge; put it into a mold and turn it out the following day. 
Place the mold on ice or in some very cold place. 

ORANGE SOUFFLE. 

Peel and slice 6 oranges, put in a glass dish a layer of oranges, 
then I of sugar, and so on until all the orange is used, and let stand 
2 hours ; make a soft-boiled custard of yolks of 3 eggs, i pint milk, 



142 CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 

sugar to taste, with grating of orange peel for flavor, and pour over 
the orange when cool enough not to break the dish ; beat whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth, stir in sugar, and put over the pudding. 
Praised by all. 

PRUNE WHIP. 

Sweeten to taste and stew ^^ pound prunes ; when perfectly cold 
add the whites of 4 eggs beaten stii^ ; stir all together till light, put 
in a dish, and bake 20 minutes ; when cold, serve in a larger dish, 
and cover well with good cream. 

QUAKING CUSTARD. 

Three .cups milk, yolks of 4 eggs, reserving the whites for the 
meringue, }4 package gelatine, 6 tablespoons sugar, vanilla flavoring, 
juice 01 I lemon for meringue. Soak the gelatine 2 hours in i cup 
of the cold milk. Then add to the rest of the milk, which must be 
boiling hot, and stir until dissolved. Let it stand a few minutes, 
and strain through muslin over the beaten yolks and sugar. Put 
over the fire and stir 5 minutes, or until you can feel it thickenmg. 
Stir up well when nearly cold, flavor, and let it alone until it con 
geals around the edges of the bowl into which you have poured it , 
then stir again, and put into a wet mold. Set upon ice, or in cold 
water until firm. Turn it, when you are ready for it, into a glass 
bowl. Have a meringue made by whipping the whites stiff with 3 
tablespo bs powdered sugar, and the lemon juice. 



CHAPTKR VI. 

DAINTY DISHES AND THE CHAFING DISH. 



ALMOND PASTIES. 

One-half pound ground almonds, ^ pound powdered sugar, i^ 
pound flour, % pound butter, 3 eggs, jam, essence of almonds. Mix 
the almonds, yi the sugar, a few drops essence, and the white of I 
egg, to make paste. Mix the flour, butter, and remainder of the 
sugar, and work it into a paste with the whites of 2 eggs. Roll both 
out, and place one upon the other. Brush over with the yolks, 
sprinkle with a little chopped almond, and bake in a moderate oven 
till they are a pale brown. Ornament with jam when cold. 

APPLE CROUTES. 

Peel and core the apples, halve them, take y^ slices of bread, 
spread thickly with butter, sprinkle with sugar, lay ^ apples on 
bread, core down, sprinkle on more sugar and any kind of spice 
preferred. Bake. 

APPLE FARCIES. 

Six large apples, 2 tablespoons minced goose or duck, i egg, i 
shalot or small onion, bread-crumbs, I pinch sage. Pare the apples 
and scoop a large piece from the stalk end. Mince the poultry and 
shalot, and make into a forcemeat with the egg, bread-crumbs, sage, 
pepper, and salt. Fill the apples, and bake in a brisk oven for 20 
minutes. Pour over them a rich gravy. 

GOLDEN APPLES. 

Six large apples, jam, 6 ounces rice, I pint milk, i ounce butter, i 
^g, 2 ounces sugar. Pare and core the apples and fill with jam, 
butter a pie-dish and put them in ; stew the rice with the sugar and 

143 



144 DAINTY DISHES. 

butter in the milk ; fill the spaces on the dish, and put the remain- 
der on top ; beat the egg and brush it over the surface. Bake in a 
brisk oven for i hour. 

BAKED CHEESE. 

Take i]4, cups finely chopped or grated cheese; add }i cup bread 
crumbs, I cup milk, I Qgg, beaten light, a little pepper and salt to 
taste. Put it in a buttered dish and bake 15 minutes in a quick 
oven. This is a good way to use the last of a piece of cheese, when 
it becomes too dry to be nice alone. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

Rub 4 tablespoons sifted flour with 2 of butter and 4 of grated 
cheese, add I Qgg and season with salt and cayenne pepper ; roll 
very thin, cut narrow strips 3 inches long and bake a pale brown in 
a hot oven. They can be molded into fancy shapes if desired. 

CHEESE CAKES. 

Peel and grate I cocoanut ; boil i pound sugar 15 minutes in ^ 
pint water; stir in the grated cocoanut and boil 15 minutes longer. 
While warm, stir in ^ pound butter ; add yolks of 7 eggs well 
beaten. Bake in patty-pans with rich paste. If prepared cocoanut 
is used, take i}^ coffeecups. 

A DESIRABLE DESSERT. 

Sponge cream furnishes a very delicate and easily made dessert. 
The ingredients are : I pint milk, 3 tablespoons gelatine, 3 table- 
spoons sugar, 3 eggs. Put gelatine into cold milk, let it stand a 
little while; put on stove and bring milk to boiling point, then add 
the sugar and yolks of eggs which have been well beaten together. 
Remove from the fire and stir in the whites, which have also been 
beaten stiff. Add a little salt and flavor to suit and pour into molds ; 
wet first so the cream will turn out easily. 



DAINTY DISHES. I45 

A DELICIOUS DESSERT. 

A delicious dessert is made of canned peaches and gelatine in 
this way: Soak ^ cup gelatine with i cup sugar and I dozen halves 
from a can of peaches for i hour, then pour on i cup boiling water 
and pass all through a strainer. Be sure to stir it all over the fire 
until all the gelatine is dissolved. Set aside to cool, and when 
ready to congeal have ready a cup of rich cream, whip the cream 
until light, add a pinch of soda and stir it into the gelatine quickly, 
I spoonful at a time. Turn into a mold wet with cold water, and 
set in a cold place to harden. 

A SIMPLE DESSERT. 

A delightful dessert is made by lining the sides of a mold with 
sponge cake, and the bottom with sliced bananas. Fill the mold 
with stiff whipped cream. Set it on ice till eaten. 

EGG BALLS. 

Boil 4 eggs 10 minutes. Drop into cold water and when cool 
remove the yolks. Pound these in a mortar until reduced to a 
paste, and then beat them with i teaspoon salt, a speck of pepper 
and the white of I raw egg. Form in balls about the size of a wal- 
nut. Roll in flour, and fry brown in butter or chicken fat, being 
careful not to burn. 

EGGS BROUILLE. 

Six eggs, ^2 cup milk, or, better still, cream, 2 mushrooms, i 
teaspooon salt, a little pepper, 3 tablespoons butter, a slight grating 
of nutmeg. Cut the mushrooms into dice and fiy them for i 
minute in i tablespoon of the butter. Beat the eggs, salt, pepper 
and cream together, and put them in a saucepan. Add the butter 
and mushrooms to these ingredients. Stir over a moderate heat 
until the mixture begins to thicken. Take from the fire and beat 
rapidly until the eggs become quite thick and creamy. Have slices 
of toast on a hot plate. Heap the mixture on these, and garnish 
with points of toast. Serve immediately. 
10 



146 DAINTY DISHES. 

FAIRY CORN-STARCH. 

Put I pint strawberry, or other fruit juice, in a farina boiler. 
Moisten 4 tablespoons corn-starch with a little cold water and stir it 
into the hot fruit juice; stir until it thickens; add ^ cup sugar, 
stir until the sugar is dissolved, and then add hastily the well-beaten 
whites of 3 eggs. Turn into a mold and stand away to harden. 
Serve icy cold with sugar and cream. 

FLORENTINES. 

Roll some nice puff paste to a thickness of 1-8 inch and lay it on 
a thin baking-tin. Spread over it a layer of green-gage or any other 
preserve or jam, and bake it in a moderate oven. Take it out, and 
when partially cool, having whipped the whites of 2 eggs with sugar, 
put the whip over the preserve, and strew some minced almonds all 
over the surface, finishing with sifted sugar. Put once more into the 
oven until the whip is quite stiff. The florentines should be of a 
pale color, and a few minutes after the paste is finally removed from 
the oven it should be cut into diamonds, and when served up placed 
on a serviette or ornamental paper. 

IRISH ROCK. 

A sweet for dessert. Wash the salt from ^ pound butter and 
beat into ^ pound finely powdered sugar; blanch i pound sweet 
almonds and i ounce bitter; pound these in a mortar, reserving 
enough of the sweet almonds to spike for ornamenting the dish 
when sent to table ; add the butter and sugar, with % glass 
brandy, and pound until smooth and white ; when, after becoming 
firm, it may be molded into a large egg-like shape, and stuck full of 
almond meats. It should be placed high on a glass dish, with a 
decoration of green sweetmeats and a sprig of myrtle, or garnish 
with any green fruits or sweetmeats. 

LEMON SPONGE. 

Soak I ounce gelatine in i pint boiling water until dissolved ; 
then pour on it i pint boiling water, the juice of 3 lemons and sugar 



DAINTY DISHES. I47 

to taste. When thoroughly mixed beat to a white froth and add 
the whites of 4 eggs, well beaten. Beat all together until quite stiff, 
put in molds wet with water and set on the ice. 

LEMON JELLY. 

Cut 6 bananas lengthwise. Slice 6 oranges. Dissolve a little 
more than ^ box gelatine in ^ pint cold water; then add J^ pint 
boiling water, the juice of 3 lemons, and sweeten to taste. In any 
vegetable dish place a layer of the cut bananas ; then a layer of the 
sliced oranges ; sprinkle a little sugar over them ; fill the dish in this 
order. When the gelatine has cooled a little, pour it over the 
bananas and oranges, and serve. 

ORANGE SPONGE. 
Make orange sponge the same as lemon. 

PEACH SPONGE. 

One pint canned peaches, ^ package gelatine, the whites of 5 
eggs, I scant cup sugar, i^ cups water. Soak the gelatine for 2 
hours in ^ cup of the water. Boil the cup of water and the sugar 
15 minutes. Mash the peaches fine, rub through a sieve, and put in 
the syrup. Cook 5 minutes, stirring all the time. Place the sauce- 
pan in another of boiling water and add the gelatine. Stir for 5 or 
8 minutes, to dissolve the gelatine ; then place the saucepan in a 
dish of ice water and beat the syrup until it begins to harden. 
When it will just pour turn it into the mold, and set away to harden. 
Serve with sugar and cream. Apricot and pear sponges can be 
made in the same manner. 

PINE-APPLE SPONGE. 

One small pine-apple or a i^-pint can of the fruit; I small cup 
sugar, Yi package gelatine, i>^ cups w^ater, the whites of 4 eggs. 
Soak the gelatine 2 hours in ^ cup of the water. Chop the pine- 
apple, and put it and the juice in a saucepan with the sugar and 
the remainder of the water. Simmer 10 minutes. Add the gelatine, 



148 DAINTY DISHES. 

take from the fire immediately, and strain into a tin basin. When 
partially cooled, add the whites of the eggs, and beat until the mix- 
ture begins to thicken. Pour into a mold and set away to harden. 
Serve with soft custard flavored with wine. 

MACARONI RAREBIT. 

Break ^^ pound macaroni in small pieces, and let it stand in 
warm water till tender; drain and place in a stew-pan with i^ 
pints milk; boil lo minutes; add I pound cheese, cut in small 
pieces, butter the size of an egg, and salt to season well. Remove 
from the stove as soon as the cheese has melted and pour over 
buttered toast. 

ORANGE COCOANUT. 

Have ready a fine ripe cocoanut, peeled, washed, wiped dry and 
grated ; mix in plenty of pulverized sugar ; take 5 large ripe oranges, 
peel and slice them. Cover the bottom of a glass bowl with the 
sliced orange, then a layer of cocoanut, another of orange, and so on 
till the dish is full, finish with cocoanut heaped up. This is a nice 
impromptu addition to the dessert at dinner. 

ORANGE HASH. 

Orange hash is a new fancy dessert, consisting of oranges, 
bananas, lemons, apples, raisins and pine-apples cut into little bits 
and served with nutmeg and sugar. The manner of serving is as 
peculiar as the dish. A hole is cut in the stem end of an orange, 
large enough to admit a spoon, and after the inside is scooped out 
the orange is filled with the hash, a little champagne or other wine is 
poured in and the whole is frozen. 

ORANGE TART. 

Squeeze out the juice and pulp of 3 oranges into a bowl ; add 
the juice of j4 lemon, 3 ounces sugar, ij4 pints cold water; let it 
come to a boil and then strain. Dissolve 2 tablespoons corn-starch 
in a little cold water, rub it smooth and add to it the strained juices ; 
let it boil 15 minutes to cook the corn-starch ; then set it aside and 



DAINTY DISHES. 



149 



when cold set it in the ice-box to become quite cold. Beat up the 
whites of 3 eggs to a foam, whip it into the corn-starch and it is 
ready for use. It may be served in tart-shells or fancy cases. 



GRAPE TRIFLE. 

Pulp through a sieve 2 pounds ripe grapes ; add sugar to taste. 
Put into a glass dish and cover with whipped cream, nicely flavored. 
Serve very cold. 

GOOSEBERRY TRIFLE. 

One quart gooseberries, sugar to taste, i pint custard, and i 
plate whipped cream. Put the gooseberries into a jar, with suffi- 
cient moist sugar to sweeten them, and boil them until reduced to a 
pulp. Put this pulp at the bottom of a trifle dish, pour over it i 
pint custard, and, when cold, cover with whipped cream. The 
cream should be whipped the day before it is wanted for table, as it 
will then be so much firmer and more solid. This dish may be gar- 
nished as fancy dictates. 

LEMON TRIFLE. 

Two lemons, juice of both and grated rind of i, i cup sherry, i 
large cup sugar, i pint cream well sweetened and whipped stiff, a 
little nutmeg. Strain the lemon-juice before adding the wine and 
nutmeg. Strain again and whip gradually into the frothed cream. 
Serve in jelly-glasses and send around cake with it. It should be 
eaten soon after it is made. 

RASPBERRY TRIFLE. 

Put into the bottom of a glass dish a layer of sliced sponge cake, 
moistened with cream, then cover with ripe red raspberries, or 
peaches, peeled and sliced, are equally good. Repeat the layers 
until the dish is ^ full. Then prepare a boiled custard in this man- 
ner : Beat together the yolks of 3 or 4 eggs and whip in ^ cup 
sugar ; stir gradually into these i quart milk just brought to a boil, 
then heat till the custard thickens, stirring constantly. When this 
has cooled pour it over the cake, cover with the whipped whites 



I50 DAINTY DISHES. 

beaten to a stiff froth with a Httle sugar, and ornamented with red 
berries or bits of bright jelly tastefully arranged. 

A TRIFLE. 

Cut 12 of the long cakes called lady-fingers in halves lengthwise, 
spread some of them with strawberry and some with apricot jam ; 
put them together again and arrange them in a deep glass dish, lay 
around them about ^ pound macaroons. Make a custard with i ^ 
pints milk and the yolks of 6 eggs sweetened to taste (take care that 
it does not curdle), flavor it after it is made and pour it while still 
hot over the sponge cakes. About i hour before using whip up ^ 
pint good cream and heap it on the trifle. 

STRAWBERRY CREAM TARTS. 

Line patty-pans with paste, bake, fill with stewed strawberries ; 
stir ^ teaspoon corn-starch into ^ teacup milk with the beaten 
whites of 2 eggs, and 2 tablespoons white sugar ; set on the stove 
and stir until thick and smooth, let cool and add yi teacup whipped 
cream, beat, and pour over the tarts. Raspberries or other small 
fruits may be used instead of strawberries. 

WHIPPED SYLLABUBS. 

One pint cream, rich and sweet, yi cup powdered sugar, i glass 
wine, I large teaspoon vanilla or other extract. Sweeten the cream, 
and, when the sugar is thoroughly dissolved, stir in the wine care- 
fully with the flavoring extract, and churn to a strong froth. Heap 
in glasses and eat with cake. 



THE CHAFING DISH. 

THE CHAFING DISH. 



151 




The advent of the chafing dish has been slow but sure, and 
those who have experienced its convenience for quick tasty dishes, 
will yield it willing homage. Once begin its use, and the range of 
savory dishes which can be cooked is surprising. A point to be 
emphasized is that the grace- 
ful and expeditious use of it 
require that, as far as pos- 
sible, materials be measured 
and prepared beforehand. 

Though this section has 
been prepared for the chafing 
dish especially — all of which 
recipes can be cooked on the 
ordinary stove — there are many others in various sections of this 
book which, with little or no modification, can be used the same as 
these; while for those who use the range these will be found equally 

useful. 

BREAD SAUTE. 

Take a thick slice of bread, crust preferable : put a tablespoon 
of butter in the chafing dish and brown the bread on both sides. 
Take it out and put in 2 tablespoons grated ham, 2 tablespoons 
grated cheese, and i gill of cream. Season with a little Cayenne 
pepper, mix all well together, and when very hot, spread on the 

toast. 

^ ANCHOVY TOAST. 

For 6 people use 6 slices of bread, cut thin, 4 tablespoons 
butter, and enough anchovy paste to spread thinly on the toast. 
Clarify the butter by letting the cup stand in boiling water for 5^ 
hour. Pour the clear oil (clarified butter) into the chafing dish. 
Cut the slices of bread into strips. When the butter is smoking 
hot put in as many slices of bread as will lie flat in the pan. Brown 
slightly, then turn and brown on the other side. Take from the 
pan and spread lightly with anchovy paste. Serve at once. While 
you are spreading the first slices with the paste, have more 
browning. 



152 THE CHAFING DISH. 

STRAWBERRY CAKES. 
One cup milk, 2 eggs, i tablespoon sugar, i cup flour, i tea- 
spoon baking powder, i saltspoon salt, yi tablespoon olive oil. Sift 
sugar, flour, and baking powder together. Beat the eggs separately, 
adding yolks and salad oil, and salt to mixture, and fold in the 
whites last. Butter the pan well and pour in enough butter to 
cover the bottom. Brown and turn over. Butter, spread with 
strawberry preserves, roll up, and serve with powdered sugar. 

ORANGE SOUFFLE. 
Pulp and juice of 2 oranges, ^/^ teaspoon orange extract, 2 eggs, 
2 teaspoons butter, 3 tablespoons powdered sugar, i teaspoon 
caramel, ^ saltspoon salt. Beat the yolks of the eggs until light 
and thick. Beat the white of i Qg% until stiff, add gradually i 
tablespoon of the sugar, fold into the yolks, add salt, spread care- 
fully into a hot buttered chafing dish, when well puffed spread the 
pulp of the oranges over the top, spread over that the other beaten 
white, to which the sugar and extract are added gradually, when 
well puffed and brown, fold, sprinkle on the caramel, pour over all 
the orange juice and serve. — Mrs. A. D. GILLETTE. 

POACHED EGGS. 
Take i pint of sweet milk; just before it boils stir in i table- 
spoon butter and i teaspoon salt. Beat 6 eggs to a froth, and pour 
in until the whole thickens, say about 2 minutes. Put out the lamp 
and stir half a minute or so. Pour over the toast. 

EGG CUTLETS. 
Cut 6 hard-boiled eggs, when quite cold, into rather thick and 
even slices with a sharp knife. Dip each slice lightly into a well- 
beaten raw egg, and then roll them carefully in fine bread-crumbs. 
The crumbs should have been previously seasoned with pepper, a 
teaspoon of finely chopped parsley, and a good pinch of salt. Three 
tablespoons of butter are put into the chafing dish, and when thor- 
oughly hot the cutlets are laid carefully in it, and browned a light 
golden color. Place them on a hot dish and pour over them a cup 
of stock into which a raw egg has been beaten. 



THE CHAFING DISH. 153 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

Cut yi pound fresh cream cheese into small pieces, and put it 
in the chafing-dish before lighting the lamp. Stir it and, as soon as 
it begins to melt, add i tablespoon butter. When it begins to look 
smooth add 2 eggs, beaten light, and }^ cup cream. Cook, stirring 
all the while, until it is smooth and of the desired consistency. 
Season with salt, a little white pepper and a dash of cayenne, or use 
no pepper and season with Tabasco. Serve on crackers or on toast. 
If salted wafers are used, be careful about the amount of salt used. 

Welsh Rarebit No. 2. — Melt a lump of butter the size of a walnut 
in the chafing dish, then add i pound of cheese, cut in small pieces, 
with I teaspoon of dry mustard. When melted, pour in slowly 
^ cup milk or cream, being careful not to curdle. Season with 
salt and cayenne pepper, and pour on hot buttered toast. 

CHOPS. 
For dainty French lamb chops, use a scant teaspoonful of but- 
ter for each chop ; when smoking hot put in the chops, cover a 
moment, then turn, season with salt and pepper, when a golden 
brown they are done (usually in about four and one-half minutes). 
If allowed to cook longer, they will be found to be too well done. 
An English chop weighing a pound should be cooked 10 minutes; 
mutton chops, 6 minutes. 

DRIED BEEF. 
To 2 tablespoons of melted butter add ^ pound of chipped 
beef. Fry until brown, add i^ pints milk and i tablespoon flour, 
creaming the fiour with a little cold milk. Serve on toast. 

SALMI OF BEEF. 
One pint of cold roast beef cut in thin slices, 2 tablespoons 
butter, I cup stock, i tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, 2 tablespoons 
flour, I teaspoon lemon juice, ^ cup claret. First melt and brown 
the butter, add the flour, stir until smooth and brown. Add the 
stock, stir until it thickens, then put in the meat. Put the upper 
pan in the bath, and, when the beef is heated, add the lemon juice, 
Worcestershire sauce and claret. Serve at once. This same recipe 
may be used for mutton, poultry or game. 



154 "^^E CHAFING DISH. 

KIDNEY WITH EGGS. 

Scald, skin and quarter 4 lamb kidneys. Put into the chafing 

dish a teaspoon butter and Yi teaspoon chopped white onion. 

When thoroughly browned add the kidney, a tablespoon water, and 

then 4 raw eggs. When the eggs set, the dish is ready to be served. 

SALMI OF PRAIRIE CHICKEN. 
Take 2 cold roasted prairie chickens and cut them into joints 
and put them aside while you prepare a gravy in the following 
manner: Take the bones, skin, and odds and ends of the chickens, 
add I onion minced, i bunch of sweet herbs, a few pieces of pork, 
and whatever gravy or dressing you may have, and stew in i pint 
of water for an hour. Skim and strain into chafing dish. Add i 
gill of sherry and the juice of a lemon. Thicken with brown flour, if 
needed. Boil and pour over the reserve meat and serve smoking hot. 

STEWED REED BIRDS. 

Put in the chafing dish about 2 walnuts of butter, or suf^cient 
to float the birds, and when quite hot put in 4 reed birds. Season 
with salt and pepper and cook for 6 minutes, turning them fre- 
quently. Lay 2 birds on each slice of toast and pour over them a 
gravy made from Y^ cup rich stock and i teaspoon vinegar. Serve 
quite hot. 

BLANQUETTE OF CHICKEN. 

Heat I pint chicken broth, add 4 fresh mushrooms, peeled 
arud cut in pieces, and simmer until tender. Add i cup of cold 
chicken, sliced in delicate pieces, cook gently until heated, then add 
the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, stirring them in gradually. When 
the sauce is smooth and creamy, season with salt and pepper and a 
few drops of lemon juice. 

CREAMED CHICKEN. 

Creamed chicken is delicious and should be prepared thus : Cut 
a cold fowl into dice, season with salt and pepper and put away in 
a cool place over night. In the morning put a tablespoon butter in 
the chafing dish, and when boiling stir into it a tablespoon flour 
and then add a coffeecup broth ; stir until smooth and then add 
gradually a teacup hot milk ; let all come to a boil ; add the chicken 



THE CHAFING DISH. 1 55 

and let simmer for 5 minutes. Slices of nicely-browned toast placed 
on the dish are an improvement. 

TURKEY HASH. 

Two cups of cold minced turkey, 2 cups milk, i tablespoon 
chopped parsley, i teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons butter, 2 table- 
spoons flour, 2 drops of onion extract, % teaspoon pepper. Season 
the meat with the salt, pepper and parsley. Make a sauce of the 
butter, flour and milk, and, when the milk is heated, add the turkey. 
Cook for 10 minutes and serve on toast. 

FRIED SHAD. 

Clean carefully a nice roe-shad. Remove the head and fins, 
split it, and cut each side into 4 or 5 pieces. Season with salt and 
pepper. Roll in flour and fry in the chafing dish in lard or dripping 
until a fine brown. Drain well on white blotting paper, and serve 
hot, garnished with sliced cucumber, pickle and parsley, and pass 
sliced lemon with it. Mashed potatoes should be served with this 
dish. 

SMELTS. 

Take 2 dozen smelts, carefully open at the gills, drawing each 
one between your finger and thumb, beginning at the tail. Wash 
them thoroughly and drain in a colander. Take ^ cup flour and 
^ cup Indian meal, salt the fish, and roll them in it. Take 2 or 3 
strips of pork drippings, or an ounce of lard (the drippings are 
preferable), and put in the chafing dish and when hot, drop in the 
smelts and fry brown. Do not put in too many at a time or they 
will not crisp well. 

BROOK TROUT. 

Clean the fish carefully and dredge with flour. Put some but- 
ter in the chafing dish, and when hot put in the fish and fry to a nice 
brown. Take up as soon as they are done. Drain a moment on a 
hot folded napkin, and serve on a heated dish, with sprigs of green 
or slices of lemon as a garniture. No salt will be needed when fried 
in butter. 

CRABS A LA CREOLE. 

One ounce table butter, i small onion and i sweet Spanish 
pepper, both minced, cook 5 minutes and stir well. Add % pint of 



156 THE CHAFING DISH. 

strained tomato pulp, a gill of chicken broth, and 4 soft shell crabs, 

each one cut in two. Season with salt and celery salt, stir well, 

simmer 7 minutes. 

CREAMED LOBSTER. 

One-half pint cream, i pint lobster cut in small pieces, i heap- 
ing tablespoon butter, i level tablespoon flour, a grain of cayenne, 

1 teaspoon salt and i teaspoon lemon juice. Season the lobster 
with all the cayenne and a little more than half the salt. Put the 
butter in the upper dish and place over the lamp ; when melted add 
the flour, and stir until the mixture is smooth and frothy ; then 
gradually stir in the cream. When the sauce boils up put in the 
lobster. Now put hot water in the lower pan. Set the upper pan 
on this, cover it, and cook 10 minutes, stirring frequently ; then stir 
in the lemon juice and serve at once. Enough for 3 persons. 

CURRY OF LOBSTER. 
Two cups lobster, cut coarsely, 2 tablespoons butter, i table- 
spoon flour, I tablespoon minced onion, i teaspoon curry powder, 

2 cups stock. Put the butter in the upper dish, and when melted, 
add the onion and brown; then put in the flour and curry powder, 
stir till smooth and brown, when the stock should be added and all 
cooked for 5 minutes. Stir in the lobster. Cook only until heated 
through. Season with Y^ teaspoonful of salt and serve. 

DEVILED LOBSTER. 

Prepared in the same manner as " creamed lobster," save that 
to the sauce i tablespoon mixed mustard and a grain of cayenne 
should be added. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBERG. 

Take the nicest part of a large lobster, cut it into small lumps, 
put in I tablespoon butter, seasoning well with pepper and salt. 
Pour over it i gill of sherry and cook it 10 minutes. Add the 
beaten yolks of 3 eggs and ^ pint of cream. Let all come to a boil 
and serve immediately. Shrimps can be prepared in same sauce. 

CURRIED OYSTERS. 
Drain i quart oysters thoroughly. Heat for a few moments to 
draw out all superfluous liquor, and drain again. Set aside in a 



THE CHAFING DISH. 157 

shallow dish. Mix together ^ teacup butter, i teaspoon corn 
starch, i tablespoon curry powder, 4 tablespoons liquor from oysters, 
I teaspoon scraped onion or onion juice. Heat this mixture in the 
chafing dish and add gradually ^ teacup milk, with which has been 
mixed a small coffeespoon salt. Stir hard until very smooth, add 
the oysters and cook for 5 or 6 minutes. Serve with rice croquettes. 

DEVILED OYSTERS. 
Eighteen large oysters, 3 tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons 
lemon juice, i level teaspoon salt, i teaspoon mixed mustard and 
yi saltspoon cayenne. Drain the oysters. Put the butter in upper 
dish and light the lamp. When the butter is hot, add the oysters 
and other ingredients. Stir until the oysters begin to ruffle on the 
edge. Serve at once on hot toast. Enough for 3 persons. 

"OYSTERS MAITRE D'HOTEL." 

Rinse and thoroughly drain 2 dozen oysters. Put with i table- 
spoon butter in the upper dish. Stir carefully and when the edges 
begin to ruffle add the juice of ^ lemon, and ^ tablespoon chopped 
parsley. Season with salt and paprika and serve on squares of toast. 

OYSTERS A LA NEWBURG. 

Heat I gill of cream in upper dish. Rub i large tablespoon 
flour into 2 large tablespoons butter .Rub the yolks of 3 hard-boiled 
eggs smooth with a little cream, add to hot cream with flour mix- 
ture. Stir until thick and smooth. Add a shake of red pepper and 
y^ teaspoon salt. Cook 40 oysters in their own liquor and i tea- 
spoon salt until edges are ruffled, about 10 minutes, then drain, add at 
once to cream prepared with 2 tablespoons sherry and serve at once. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

One cup cold sweet corn, i beaten z^g, 2 tablespoons flour, 
•J^ teaspoon baking powder. Pepper and salt to taste. Make into 
a batter and fry by spoonfuls in butter. 

MACARONI WITH MUSHROOMS. 
Parboil ^j pound of macaroni, drain and keep warm. Put a 
little chopped parsley, i sliced onion, i tablespoon of vinegar with 
I pint water, in the chafing dish, and let it come to a boil, add i pint 



158 THE CHAFING DISH. 

canned or dried mushrooms, let cook lo minutes, beat in 4 eggs 
and stir until thick. Put the macaroni in a deep dish, pour over 
the sauce, and set over again for 5 minutes. 

FRENCH PEASE. 

Turn one can of petit pois in a strainer and let about i quart 
cold water run over them to rinse off the water with which they 
were surrounded. Put them in the chafing dish with i tablespoon 
butter, I teaspoon sugar, i gill water, and i level teaspoon salt. 
Place over the lighted lamp and cook for 5 minutes. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

One pint of cold potatoes, cut into cubes or thin slices. Put 
them in the chafing dish, cover with milk and cook until the pota- 
toes have absorbed the milk, then add i tablespoon butter, ^ tea- 
spoon salt, Yz saltspoon pepper, and a little chopped porsley. 

CANNED TOMATOES. 

Put in the upper dish one tablespoon butter and i teaspoon 
flour. Stir until the butter bubbles ; add i pint of canned toma- 
toes, y^ teaspoon pepper and i level teaspoon salt. Cook for 10 
minutes, stirring frequently. For some tastes a teaspoon sugar is a 
desirable addition. 

TOMATOES WITH MUSTARD SAUCE. 

Three large ripe tomatoes, 2 tablespoons butter, i teaspoon 
mustard, i raw &^^, 2 tablespoons vinegar, i level teaspoon pow- 
dered sugar, y^ teaspoon salt and a dash pepper. Pour over the 
tomatoes boiling water to loosen the skins, peel and cut into 
thick slices and put on the ice. The sauce may be used hot or 
cold ; it is best cold. To make : Cream the butter, add the sugar 
and mustard, which may be "dry" or "made" mustard, and mix 
well. Add the salt and pepper and rub into the mixture the yol^ 
of hard-boiled egg. For this use a little sieve. Heat your vinegar; 
then add that and finally the beaten raw ^gg. Set over the hot- 
water pan and cook slowly until the consistency of a thick cream. 
Stir constantly to make it smooth. Set aside to cool. When 
ready to use, put a tablespoon of butter in the chafing dish. Add 
the tomatoes and, when hot, serve from the dish. 



CHAPTKR VII. 



DESSERTS.— PIES. 



PUFF PASTE. 

To insure elegant pastry you must use the best materials, and 
take the trouble required to make it properly. " Puff Paste " fills 
all of the requirements if made according to the following recipe: 

Use for each pound of butter i pound flour. First the butter 
should be worked or kneaded with the hand until all the buttermilk 
or water is squeezed out. Wet the hand and the molding board 
with cold water. The butter must not be put in with the cracks in 
it, which you will see on breaking it, for these make the pastry full 
of flakes. By working with the hand a smooth even paste can be 
made without melting the butter. After working, wrap in a towel 
dusted with flour and put in a cool place. Mix i pound flour, the 
yolk of I egg, i teaspoon butter, the juice of I lemon, and I salt- 
spoon salt, with cold water enough to make a paste as soft as bread 
dough. The lemon-juice is for making the dough tender, and the 
egg is used simply to give a yellowish appearance to the crust. 
This is the French method of preparing paste. The pastry is worked 
to mix the gluten with the water to make, first, a slightly tough 
dough to hold the butter ; the lemon-juice afterward makes it ten- 
der. It should be kneaded about 5 minutes. You can always tell 
when it is kneaded enough, because it will then pull away from the 
hand and not stick. Roll it out about the size of a large dinner 
plate, lay the butter in it, fold the sides over, turn it over and roll 
into a strip 3 times as long as it is wide, square at the corners, 
and }{ inch thick. Fold one third over the middle and the other 
third over that, making 3 layers ; roll again into a strip 3 times 
as long as it is wide. Fold a second time and roll out in the same 
way. Fold again and wrap in a cloth, place it in a pan and set it 

159 



l6o DESSERTS. 

where it will get very cold. This is called giving the pastry "one 
turn," When it is made by fine confectioners it usually has 6 
" turns." 

PUFF PASTE WITH BEEF SUET. 

Where you cannot obtain good butter for making paste, the fol- 
lowing is an excellent substitute: skin and chop i pound kidney 
beef suet very fine, put in a mortar and pound it well, moistening 
with a little oil, until it becomes, as it were, one piece, and about 
the consistency of butter ; proceed exactly as in the last, using it 
instead of butter. 

GOOD COMMON PASTE. 

One coffeecup lard, 3 of sifted flour, and a little salt. In winter 
soften the lard a little (but not in summer), cut it well into the flour 
with a knife, then mix with cold water quickly into a moderately 
stiff dough, handling as little as possible. This makes 4 common- 
sized covered pies. Take a new slice of paste each time for top 
crust. After rolling spread with a teaspoon, butter, fold and roll 
again, using the trimmings, etc., for under crust. 

GRAHAM PASTE. 

Mix lightly >^ pound Graham flour, ^ pint sweet cream, ^ tea- 
spoon salt ; roll, and bake like other pastry. 

TO USE SUET. 

Allow % pound beef suet for every pound of flour; in this case 
adding a little salt to the water you mix the flour with. First make 
the suet, divest it of all skin and blood spots, then with a sharp 
knife shred it in as fine slices as possible, then place it in some place 
where it will just feel the heat, nothing more (it must not be any- 
thing hke melted). While this is softening mix the dough ; when 
mixed roll out in a sheet, the same as for best pastry, lay on 
the suet to cover the dough, then fold and roll. (See instructions 
for puff pastry.) This paste will require a few more foldings and 
rollings than if made with butter. When it is rolled enough, proceed 



DESSERTS. l6l 

to cover the pie-dish as you would with other pastry ; also for pat- 
ties, mince pies, etc., use and work it off precisely as you would for 
puff pastry. If you were, after shredding the suet, to beat it soft 
with the rolling-pin on the board, you could roll out the paste with 
more ease, and it would not take more than 5 minutes. 

A very fine butter, called " French butter," for making an extra 
short yet flaky pastry, is made as follows : Take ^ pound beef suet, 
% pound good butter, the yolks of 2 eggs, and % teaspoon salt ; 
remove the skin and blood spots from the suet, place it in a mortar, 
pound it soft, then add the butter and salt, pound that well in, then 
add the eggs, work the whole into a smooth mass, then use it in the 
same quantity and in the same manner as for puff pastry. 

PIE CRUST. 

Into I quart sifted flour, thoroughly mix 2 heaping teaspoons 
baking powder, and sift again. Weigh out ^ pound good butter ; 
take Yz of it and chop into the flour until it is very fine ; then add 
enough cold water (ice water is the best) to make a stiff dough. 
Roll out into a thin sheet and baste with ^ the remaining butter, 
then roll it up closely into a long roll, flatten and re-roll, then baste 
again. Repeat this operation until the butter is gone ; then make 
out your crust. Do it all as quickly as possible. The quantity of 
butter may be increased or decreased to suit the taste, following the 
other directions as stated. 

PIE CRUST GLAZE. 

To prevent the juice soaking through into the crust and making 
it soggy, wet the crust with a beaten egg just before you put in the 
pie mixture. If the top of the pie is wet with the egg it gives it a 
beautiful brown. 

TART CRUST. 

One cup lard, }i teaspoon salt, the white of I Qgg, % teaspoon 
cream of tartar, i tablespoon sugar, 1-8 teaspoon saleratus, 3 table- 
spoons ice water ; flour to rpll ; mix lard with I cup flour ; add salt, 
sugar, and cream of tartar; beat Qgg\ mix with water and saleratus. 



1 62 DESSERTS. 

all together; keep the dough cold; add flour to roll 5^ inch thick. 
The above makes 18 tarts. 

ICING PASTRY. 
When nearly baked enough, take the pastry out of the oven and 
sift finely-powdered sugar over it. Replace it in the oven, and hold 
over it a hot salamander or shovel till the sugar is melted. The 
above method is preferred for pasty to be eaten hot ; for cold, beat 
up the whites of two eggs well, wash over the tops of the pies with 
a brush, and sift over this a good coating of sugar; to cause it to 
adhere to the egg and pie crust, trundle over it a clean brush, 
dipped in water, till the sugar is all moistened. Bake again for 
about 10 minutes. 

APRICOT PIE. 

Pare, stone and halve the apricots; place them in a pie dish, 
piling them high in the center, strew over them a little sifted sugar, 
and a few of the kernels, blanched and chopped fine. Cover them 
with a good light crust and bake in a moderate oven. 

APPLE PIE. 
Fill the pie crust with sour, juicy apples, pared and sliced thin, 
put on the upper crust and bake until the apples are soft, then 
remove the upper crust, adding sugar to taste, a small piece of 
butter, and a little grated nutmeg; stir this well through the apple 
and replace the crust. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

Peel sour apples and stew until soft and not much water is left 
in them, then rub them through a colander, beat 3 eggs for each pie 
to be baked, and put in at the rate of i cup butter and i of sugar 
for 3 pies. Line the pie-tins with paste, put in the apples first, 
spread the beaten eggs, butter and sugar, flavored with nutmeg over 
it. Bake as pumpkin pie. 

APPLE OR PEACH MERINGUE PIE. 

Stew the apples or peaches, and sweeten to taste. Mash smooth 
and season with nutmeg. Fill the crust and bake until just done. 



DESSERTS. 163 

Put on no top crust. Take the whites of 3 eggs for each pie and 
whip to a stiff froth, and sweeten with 3 tablespoons powdered 
sugar. Flavor with rose-water or vanilla. Beat until it will stand 
alone ; then spread it on the pie ^ to i inch thick, and set it back 
into the oven until the meringue is well " set." Eat cold. 

DRIED APPLE PIE. 

Very good pies may be made of evaporated apples, by stewing in a 
very little water ; sweeten and make like any other. The home dried 
apples are best when stewed very soft, and mashed through a 
colander. When stewing put in 1 or 3 small pieces of lemon 
or orange peel (previously dried and saved for cooking purposes) ; 
flavor with a very little spice of any kind. Sweeten and season 
before putting in the pie-pan. A beaten &%^ may be stirred in. 
Bake with two crusts, rolled thin, and warm slightly before eating. 

STEWED APPLE PIE. 

Stew the apples and mash them. Sweeten to taste. Stir in i 
teaspoon good butter while the apple is hot, and season as preferred. 
Do not put the apple into the crust till it becomes cool. Put strips 
of crust across the top. Sift powdered sugar over it. 

BOILED CIDER PIE. 

A boiled cider pie may be a novelty to some one. Take 4 table- 
spoons boiled cider, 3 tablespoons each of sugar and water, 2 
tablespoons flour, and I &%?>'•' beat all together. Bake in a deep 
plate and with upper and under crusts. 

BANANA PIE. 

Slice raw bananas, add butter, sugar, allspice and vinegar, or 
boiled cider or diluted jelly. Bake with 2 crusts. 

BLACKBERRY PIE. 

Line a pie-dish with good crust, and fill with ripe berries, sweet- 
ening plentifully. Cover with another crust and bake in a moderate 
oven. Eat cold with white sugar sifted over it. 



l64 • DESSERTS. 

CRACKER, OR MOCK MINCE PIE. 

Soak lo crackers in lyi cups boiling water, add i cup molasses, 
I cup sugar, i cup butter, i cup raisins, ^ cup vinegar, ^ nutmeg, 
^2 teaspoon ground cloves, I teaspoon cinnamon. Bake with 2 
crusts. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

One coffeecup milk, 2 tablespoons grated chocolate, ^ cup sugar, 
yolks 3 eggs. Heat chocolate and milk together; add the sugar 
and yolks together, beaten to cream ; flavor with vanilla ; bake with 
under crust. Spread meringue 'of the whites over the top. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

Open the eyes of a cocoanut with a pointed knife or gimlet, and 
pour out the milk into a cup; then break the shell and take out the 
meat and grate it fine. Take the same weight of sugar and the 
grated nut and stir together ; beat 4 eggs, the whites and yolks sep- 
arately, to a stiff foam ; mix i cup cream and the milk of the cocoa- 
nut with the sugar and nut, then add the eggs and a few drops of 
orange or lemon extract. Line deep pie-tins with a nice crust, fill 
them with the custard, and bake carefully ^ hour. 

COCOANUT PIE, NO. 2. 

To I pound grated cocoanut (an ordinary-sized cocoanut will 
make i pound), allow i pound white sugar, the whites of 10 eggs, ^ 
pound butter, I teacup sweet cream. Melt the butter and add it to 
the sugar, and pour in the cream ; beat it until light, and then add 
the cocoanut. Lastly, just before you are ready to bake the pies, 
add the whites of the eggs, which have been beaten until perfectly 
light. Fill the pans that have been lined with pastry. Put across 
the pies delicate strips of pastry and bake at once. This is far more 
delicate and delicious than when the egg yolks are used. 

The cocoanut is so rich that the y^ pound of butter is suffi- 
cient. This makes lovely looking pies, pleasing to the eye as well 
as the taste. 



DESSERTS. 165 

GREEN CURRANT PIE. 

Line a deep pie-dish with good pie-crust, sprinkle over the bot- 
tom 2 heaping tablespoons sugar and 2 of flour (or i of corn-starch) 
mixed ; then pour in i pint green currants washed clean, and 2 table- 
spoons currant jelly ; sprinkle with 4 heaping tablespoons sugar, and 
add 2 tablespoons cold water; cover and bake 15 or 20 minutes. 

RIPE CURRANT PIE. 

One cup mashed ripe currants, I cup sugar, 2 tablespoons water, 
I of flour beaten with the yolks of 2 eggs ; bake, frost the top with 
the beaten whites of the eggs and 2 tablespoons powdered sugar, 
and brown in oven. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Line a pie-tin with rich crust ; nearly fill with the carefully pitted 
fruit, sweeten to taste, and sprinkle evenly with i teaspoon corn- 
starch or I tablespoon flour, add I tablespoon butter cut into small 
bits and scattered over the top ; wet edge of crust, put on upper 
crust, and press the edges closely together, taking care to provide 
holes in the center for the escape of the air. Pies from blackberries, 
raspberries, etc., are all made in the same way, regulating the quan- 
tity of the sugar by the tartness of the fruit. 

CREAM PIE. 

Place I pint milk over water and let boil, then stir in I cup sugar, 
y2 cup flour, yolks of 2 eggs, well beaten together ; flavor. Beat 
whites with 3 tablespoons sugar added and spread over. Brown 
lightly. 

CREAM PIE, NO. 2. 

Three eggs, i cup sugar, 15^ cups flour, juice and grated rind of I 
lemon, ]/2 teaspoon soda dissolved in i tablespoon cold water, stirred 
in the last thing. Bake in round sheets. 

Custard for Filling. — A little more than ^ pint milk, ^ cup 
flour, I cup sugar, 2 eggs. Boil, when cold, spread on the cakes 
and lay them together. This receipt makes 2 pies. 



l66 DESSERTS. 

CREAM PIE, NO. 3. 

Pour I pint cream upon i)^ cups powdered sugar; let it stand till 
the whites of 3 eggs have been beaten to a stiff froth ; add this to 
the cream, and beat up thoroughly, grate a little nutmeg over the 
mixture and bake as custard pies. 

WHIPPED CREAM PIE. 

Make a moderately rich pie-crust and perforate it to prevent 
blistering, and bake. Sweeten with powdered sugar, i pint very 
thick sweet cream made as cold as possible without freezing, and 
flavor it with any flavoring you like best ; then whip it to a stiff 
froth, spread on the baked paste, and finish with a few bits of jelly 
laid lightly on the cream. 

CRUMB PIE. 

Soak in a little warm water I teacup bread-crumbs ^ hour, add 
3 tablespoons sugar, ^ tablespoon butter, ^^ cup cold water, a little 
vinegar, and nutmeg to suit the taste ; bake with 2 crusts, made the 
same as for other pies. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Line a deep plate with pie-crust, and fill with a custard made of 
I pint milk, 3 eggs, 3 tablespoons white sugar, and a pinch of salt ; 
flavor with nutmeg ; bake until firm in the center ; this you can tell 
by inserting the handle of a teaspoon ; do not let the oven get hot 
enough to boil it. 

CUSTARD PIE, NO. 2. 

Line a deep plate with pie-crust made as preferred with butter 
or lard, or both. Build up the edge a little. To 3 well-beaten eggs, 
reserving the white of i, add 4 tablespoons sugar, i of flour, and a 
pinch of salt, and milk to fill the crust, on which nutmeg should be 
grated. Bake in a moderately hot oven, trying it with a fork from 
time to time. When no longer " milky," remove from oven, and 
after it has cooled a little, cover with a meringue made by whipping 
the white of egg that was reserved with i teaspoon sugar and a bit 
of essence lemon. Brown lightly. 



DESSERTS. 167 

JELLY CUSTARD. 

To I cup of any sort of jelly, add i egg and beat well together 
with 3 teaspoons cream or milk. After mixing thoroughly, bake in 
a good crust. 

DELICATE PIE. 

Line a soup plate with a rich paste, and spread with a layer of 
strawberry or raspberry preserves ; over which sprinkle 2 table- 
spoons finely-chopped blanched almonds and ^ ounce candied 
lemon peel cut into shreds. Then mix the following ingred- 
ients : ^ pound white sugar, ^^ pound butter, melted, 4 
yolks and 2 whites of eggs, and a few drops almond essence. Beat 
well together and pour the mixture into the soup plate over the 
preserves, etc. Bake in a moderately warm oven. When cold, 
sprinkle or sift a little powdered sugar over the top. A little cream 
eaten with it is a great addition. 

FRUIT PIE. 
Take 9 lemons, squeeze out the juice, boil the rinds and pulp 
(remove seed) in 3 or 4 waters till bitterness is out and rinds quite 
tender; beat them to a pulp ; 2^ pounds beef suet after it is picked 
from the skins, 2 pounds currants after they are picked and washed, 
lyi pounds raisins after they are stoned, 2 ounces almonds, 2 pounds 
sugar, 3^ pound citron, i glass brandy, and I of sweet wine ; mix 
all these ingredients well together with the juice from the lemons, 
and as many sweetmeats as you please. 

GATEAU ST. HONORE. 
Prepare a pie crust as for custard pie, put it on a greased pie- 
plate and bake to a delicate brown. When done, and cool, spread a 
layer of quince marmalade over it. Prepare a mixture as for cream 
cakes, put it in a pastry-bag, and press part of it around the edge of 
a round cake-tin, press out the remainder in balls the size of hickory 
nuts, and bake ; lay the border on the edge of the pie crust and 
press it into the marmalade ; garnish the edge with the balls, and 
sections of oranges, candied cherries, grapes, etc.; fill the center with 
Bavarian cream. 



l68 DESSERTS. 

JELLY PIE. 

One cup jelly, 2 cups sugar, 4 eggs, ^ cup butter ; cream the 
butter and sugar ; beat the yolks of eggs until very light, mix with 
sugar and butter ; then the whites, last the jelly, and flavor with 2 
teaspoons extract of orange ; bake with under crust about ^ hour. 

LEMON PIE. 

Moisten i heaping tablespoon corn-starch with a little cold water, 
then add I cup boiling water ; stir over the fire till it boils and cooks 
the corn-starch, say 2 or 3 minutes ; add I teaspoon butter and I cup 
sugar ; take off the fire, and when slightly cooled, add i egg well 
beaten and the juice and grated rind of i lemon. Bake with a crust. 
This makes I pie. 

LEMON PIE, NO. 2. 

The juice and grated rind of i lemon, I cup white sugar, the 
yolks of 2 eggs, 3 tablespoons sifted flour, and sufficient milk or 
water to fill a plate. Make with undercrust, but not the uppercrust. 
Bake till nearly done and then add a frosting made of the beaten 
whites of 2 eggs, and 2 tablespoons powdered sugar, and set back in 
the oven and brown slightly. 

MOCK LEMON PIE. 

One-half cup sugar, yolks of 2 eggs, ^ cup milk and ^ cup 
water ; beat the eggs, add the rest, beat all together, and place in a 
crust, the same as for a custard pie. When done, beat the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth, add i tablespoon ^gar, and i teaspoon 
extract of lemon, spread over the pie, return to the oven and brown. 
This makes a small pie. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Mince pies are a luxury that many wise people abstain from on 
account of their indigestibility, yet from early habit, special or holi- 
day occasions hardly seem complete without them ; while in many 
families, on account partly of their convenience, they are the 



DESSERTS. 169 

standard pie for the entire winter. One essential is very finely- 
chopped, tender beef, in which there is no gristle. To each pound 
after it is chopped, take 2 pounds chopped apples, i^ pound leaf 
suet also chopped, i pound each of seeded and chopped raisins and 
currants, )^ pound citron sliced very thin, i pound brown sugar, the 
juice and grated rind of 2 lemons, 3^ nutmeg, i teaspoon each of 
cinnamon and cloves, and enough boiled cider to make it spread 
easily. When these ingredients are well mixed, put the mass over 
the fire in a preserving kettle and cook it carefully until the apples 
are soft and the whole has a rich taste. If not found as sweet as 
liked add more sugar. Packed closely in jars after this cooking, it 
will keep all winter in a cool place, and it is but a few minutes' work 
to make up the pies as needed. 

MINCE MEAT, NO. 2. 

One pint chopped meat, 2 pints chopped apples, I pint each of 
molasses and vinegar, 2 pints sugar, i tablespoon each of cinnamon, 
cloves and allspice, i cup chopped suet, or butter, a little salt, and a 
little brandy if liked. Add raisins when the pies are baked. 

MINCE MEAT, NO. 3. 

One cup chopped meat, 3 cups chopped apples, i^ cups each of 
raisins, currants and brown sugar, I cup molasses, i cup meat liquor, 
I teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 5^ teaspoon each of mace and 
cloves, I lemon grated, % cup shced citron, y^ cup brandy, ^ cup 
wine, 3 teaspoons rose-water. 

MINCE MEAT, NO. 4. 

Four pounds cold, boiled, lean beef, chopped fine, 10 pounds 
apples, chopped fine, i^ pounds suet, chopped, 2 pounds currants, 
4 pounds raisins, chopped fine, ^ pound citron, sliced fine, 4 pounds 
sugar, I quart the liquor the meat was boiled in, I pint boiled 
cider, 3 pints best New Orleans molasses, 3 teaspoons ground cloves, 
10 of ground cinnamon, 3 of ground mace, i of white pepper, 6 table- 
spoons salt, 2 nutmegs, and the juice and grated rind of 3 lemons. Mix 



T 70 DESSERTS. 

well and add any kind of fruit syrup. This makes a large quantity, 
which, if prepared in cold weather, may be packed in jars and kept 
as long as desired. The addition of a few spoons sweet cream, when 
filling the baking-tins, will be found a great improvement to mince 
pies. 

MINCE MEAT, NO. 5. 

Use 2 bowls chopped apples, i of chopped meat, % pound 
chopped suet, the grated rind and juice of I lemon, 2 teacups 
molasses, i large teaspoon each of cinnamon and cloves, i nutmeg 
grated fine, I pound stoned or seedless raisins, ^ pound currants, 
% pound citron cut fine, I quart cider, and sugar and salt to 
taste. 

MARLBOROUGH PIE. 

Grate 6 apples, i cup sugar, 3 tablespoons melted butter, 4 eggs, 
juice and grated rind of i lemon, 2 tablespoons brandy or wine, if 
you choose, if not, omit it. Bake without top crust. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Work I teacup powdered sugar and i tablespoon butter to a 
cream. Mix i tablespoon corn-starch with a little cold water, and 
add I teacup boiling water; let it cook long enough to thicken, stir-, 
ring constantly ; then pour the mixture onto the butter and sugar. 
Grate the peel from ^ an orange, and chop the other half fine, first 
removing all the inner white skin ; add this to the former ingredients, 
also I beaten egg and the juice of i orange. Peel another orange, 
and shce it in little thin bits, being careful to remove all the seeds 
and the tough white skin. Line a pie-plate with nice paste and bake 
it until just done ; then fill with the custard and orange slices, and 
bake long enough to cook the egg. A meringue made with the 
whites of 2 eggs, a pinch of salt, and 2 tablespoons powdered sugar, 
beaten to a stiff froth, will be an improvement. Spread it over the 
pie ; sift powdered sugar on the top, and set it again in the oven 
until slightly colored. 



DESSERTS. 171 

ORANGE PIE, NO. 2. 

A good orange pie may be made by grating a part of the rind 
and squeezing the juice of an orange into a common custard, and 
bake as custard pie. 

PEACH PIE. 

Peel, stone and sHce the peaches ; line a pie-plate with crust and 
lay in your fruit, sprinkling sugar liberally over them in proportion 
to their sweetness. Allow 3 peach kernels chopped fine to each pie ; 
pour in a very little water and bake with an upper crust, or with 
cross-bars of paste across the top. 

CREAM PEACH PIE. 

Pare ripe peaches and remove the stones ; have your pie dishes 
ready lined with a good paste, fill with the peaches ; stew these with 
sugar ; lay the upper crust on lightly, slightly buttering the lower at 
the point of contact. When the pie is done, lift the cover and pour 
in a cream made thus : i small cup rich milk, heated, whites of 2 
eggs, whipped and stirred into the milk, i tablespoon sugar, 3^ tea- 
spoon corn-starch wet up in milk; boil 3 minutes. The cream must 
be cold when it goes into the hot pie. Replace the crust, and set 
by to cool. Eat fresh. 

PINE-APPLE PIE. 

A pine-apple, its weight in sugar, ^ its weight in butter, i cup 
cream, 5 eggs ; beat the butter to a creamy froth, add the sugar and 
yolks of the eggs, continue beating till very light, add the cream, the 
pine-apple grated, and the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
Bake with an under crust. Eat cold. 

POTATO PIE. 

When fruits are scarce, an excellent pie can be made of our 
much-used vegetable, the potato. Press i pint mashed potato 
through a colander, add to it i pint milk, ^ teacup butter creamed 
with I coffeecup sugar, the well-beaten yolks of 3 eggs, i teaspoon 
nutmeg, a pinch each of salt and mace, and juice and grated rind of 



1/2 DESSERTS. 

I lemon. Mix well and bake with i crust like a custard pie. When 
done, beat the whites of the 3 eggs stiff, add 3 tablespoons sugar, 
and a little flavoring ; return it to the oven and bake until it 
becomes a delicate brown. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 

Boil the potatoes till done, peel and strain through a colander- 
add milk till it is thin enough, and for every quart of the mixture add 
3 well-beaten eggs, with sugar and seasoning to taste. Line the 
bottom of pie-plates with paste, fill with the mixture anf*. bake. 

SWEET POTATO PIE, NO. 2. 

A plate deeper than the common pie-plate is necessary ; bake 
medium-sized potatoes, not quite done ; yams are best. I uie the 
plate with good paste, slice the potatoes, place a layer upr»n the 
bottom of the plate, over this sprinkle thickly a layer of good b''owi^ 
sugar, over this place thin slices of butter and sprinkle with flour^ 
seasoning with spices to taste. A heaped tablespoon butter and I 
heaped teaspoon flour will be sufficient for i pie. Put on another 
layer of potatoes, piled a little in the middle; mix together equal 
quantities lemon-juice and water, or vinegar and water and pour in 
enough to half fill the pie; sprinkle over the potato a little flour and 
place on the upper crust, pinching the edges carefully together. 
Cut a slit in the center and bake slowly I hour. 

PRUNE PIE. 

First make a nice crust, line a pie-plate with crust, fill in with 
stewed and pitted prunes, I tablespoon vinegar, enough of the juice 
to just cover the prunes, a few bits of butter, a little flour, and sugar 
to taste ; top crust. 

A plum pie may be made in the same way. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Select deep yellow pumpkin, fine grained, pare and cook slowly, 
put through colander, to scant 3 pints pumpkin add 8 eggs well 



DESSERTS. 173 

beaten, 2 quarts milk, i teaspoon mace, I teaspoon cinnamon, and 
the same of nutmeg, i^ cups light brown sugar, I scant teaspoon 
ginger and a little salt. Beat all well together, and bake same as 
custard pie till a golden brown. 

QUINCE PIE. 

Pare, slice, and stew 6 quinces till soft, press them through a 
sieve, add to them i pint milk and 4 well-beaten eggs ; sweeten to 
taste, and bake in a bottom crust 3// hour in a moderate oven. 

RAISIN PIE. 

One lemon, juice and yellow rind, i cup raisins, i cup water, i 
cup rolled crackers ; seed the raisins, and boil in water to soften 
them. 

CREAM RASPBERRY PIE. 

Line a pie-dish with puff paste, and fill with raspberries, sweet- 
ened bountifully, cover with a paste crust, but do not pinch this 
down at the edges ; also rub the edge of the lower crust with butter 
to prevent adhesion. Bake in a good oven ; while it is cooking, heat 
a small cup rich milk, putting in a pinch of soda ; stir into it ^ tea- 
spoon corn-starch, wet in cold milk, i tablespoon white sugar, and 
cook 3 minutes. Take it off, and beat in the frothed white of 2 
eggs ; whip to a cream, and let it get cold. When the pie comes 
out of the oven, lift the top crust and pour in the mixture, replace 
the crust and set aside to cool ; sift sugar upon the top before 
serving, 

RICE PIE. 

To I quart boiling water add I teacup rice and boil until very 
soft, remove it from the fire and add i quart cold milk, i teaspoon 
salt, 5 beaten eggs, sugar to taste and flavor with nutmeg ; bake in 
deep plates with an undercrust. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Mix ^ teacup white sugar and i heaping teaspoon flour together, 
sprinkle over the bottom crust, then add the pie-plant cut up fine, 



174 DESSERTS. 

sprinkle over this another ^ teacup sugar and i heaping teaspoon 
flour; bake fully J,^ of an hour in a slow oven ; or, stew the pie-plant, 
sweeten, add grated rind and juice of I lemon and yolks of 2 eggs, 
and bake and frost like lemon pie. 

SQUASH PIES. 

Five pints stewed and strained squash, 2 quarts boiling milk, 1J/2 
nutmegs, 4 teaspoons salt, 5 cups sugar, 9 eggs, 4 tablespoons rose- 
water ; gradually pour the boiling milk on the squash and stir con- 
tinually; add the nutmeg, rose-water and sugar. When cold, add 
the eggs, well beaten ; butter deep plates and line with a plain paste ; 
fill with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for 40 minutes. 

VINEGAR PIES. 

One and one-half cups good vinegar, i cup water, lump butter 
size of an egg, sugar enough to sweeten to the taste ; flavor with 
lemon ; put in stewpan on stove ; take 5 eggs, beat the yolks with i 
cup water and 2 heaping teaspoons flour ; when the vinegar comes to 
a boil, put in the eggs and flour, stirring till well cooked ; have ready 
crust for 4 pies, put in the filling and bake. Beat the whites with 2 
teaspoons white sugar to a froth, spread on the pies when done, and 
color in the oven. These are excellent. 

TARTS. 

Use the best of pufT paste; roll it out a little thicker than the 
pie crust, and cut with a large biscuit-cutter twice as many as you 
intend to have of tarts ; then cut out of half of them a small round 
in the center, which will leave a circular rim of crust ; lift this up 
carefully and lay on the large pieces. Bake in pans, and fill with any 
kind of preserves, jam, or jelly. 

COCOANUT TARTS. 

Dissolve }4 pound sugar in i pint water ; add i pound grated 
cocoanut and boil. Let cool, add the well beaten yolks of 3 eggs 
and the white of i, beat all together and pour in tart-tins lined with 
puff paste. 



DESSERTS. 175 

CHOCOLATE TARTLETS. 

Four eggs ; ^ cake Baker's chocolate, grated ; i tablespoon corn- 
starch, dissolved in milk ; i teacup milk ; 4 tablespoons white sugar ; 
2 teaspoons vanilla ; ^ teaspoon cinnamon, and a little salt ; i heap- 
ing teaspoon melted butter; rub the chocolate smooth in the milk; 
heat over the fire and add the corn-starch wet in more milk ; stir 
until thickened, and pour out ; when cold, beat in the yolks and 
sugar with the flavoring ; bake in open shells lining patty-pans ; 
cover with a meringue made of the whites and a little powdered 
sugar, when they are nearly done, and let them color slightly. Eat 
cold. 

ORANGE TARTLETS. 

Two fine Havana oranges, juice of both, and grated peel of i ; 
^ cup sugar, ^ cup if the oranges are very sweet ; i tablespoon 
butter; ^ lemon, juice only, to wet i teaspoon corn-starch. Beat 
all well together, and bake in tartlet shells without cover. 

BOMBES AU RIZ. 

Take 5^ pint rice, put in 3 pints boiling water, and salt. Let it 
boil 15 minutes. At the end of that time drain the rice, pour on 
milk enough to cover it ; put it on the back part of the stove where 
it will not burn, and let it absorb the milk ; put in enough milk to 
make the rice soft. While the milk is being absorbed add 4 table- 
spoons sweetening and i teaspoon flavoring. When the rice is 
thoroughly tender take it from the fire and add the yolks of 3 eggs. 
If the rice is not hot enough to thicken the eggs, put it back on the 
fire ; stir constantly and let it remain just long enough to thicken, 
but don't let it burn. As soon as it thickens put it on a dish and 
rub with salad oil ; then put it where it will get very cold. As soon 
as cold it is ready to use for rice croquets or bombes. Take a table- 
spoon of rice in your hand and flatten it ; put a plum or any sweet- 
meat in the center, roll the rice round the sweetmeat, roll in cracker 
dust, dip in egg, then roll in the cracker dust again. Fry in smoking 
hot lard and serve hot or cold. 



1/6 DESSERTS. 

PUDDINGS. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

Flour — Should always be sifted just before you wish to use it. 

Cream of Tartar, or Baking Powder — Should be thoroughly 
mixed with the flour. 

Soda — Should always be dissolved in the milk. 

Butter and Sugar for Cake — Should always be beaten to a 
cream. 

Eggs. — Beat the yolks until you can take up a s-^oon fu /I; whip 
the whites to a stiff froth and stir them into the cake with the flour 
the last thing before putting the cake into the tins. 

To Boil a Pudding in a Bag- — Dip the bag (which should be 
made of thick cotton or linen) in hot water, and rub the inside with 
flour before putting in the pudding ; when done, dip the bag in cold 
water and the pudding will turn out easily. Always put a plate on 
the bottom of the kettle to keep the pudding from burning. 

To Steam a Pudding — Put it into a tin pan or earthen dish, tie a 
cloth over the top and set it into a steamer, cover the steamer 
closely ; allow a little longer time than you do for boiling. 

HINTS TO HOUSEKEEPERS. 

All young housekeepers should learn as soon as possible how to 
prepare dishes for dessert which can be made on very short notice, 
that they may not be annoyed in the event of unexpected company 
to dinner. In summer, fruit answers every purpose, but at other 
seasons, and particularly if the first course is not very elaborate, she 
will need to have something more substantial. A delicious pudding 
can be made in a few minutes by taking I pint milk and stirring into 
it yi cup cassava, yi cup cocoanut, 2 eggs, a little butter, salt 
and sugar to taste; flavor with vanilla. Cook this as you would 
boiled custard. When cooked and put in the dish in which it is to 
be served, pour over the top the white of i egg beaten to a stiff 
froth, with i tablespoon pulverized sugar added. Set it in the oven 
for a short time to brown. This may be eaten warm or cold, with 



DESSERTS. 177 

jelly or preserves or without. .Another dish which is easily made and 
which is economical as well as palatable, is to take slices of cake 
which are a little dry and pour over them while hot some boiled 
custard, cover the dish quickly, and the hot custard will steam the 
ckke sufficiently. Raisin cake steamed and served with some pud- 
ding sauce is good. Velvet cream, to be eaten with cake, is made in 
this way : Beat the whites of 4 eggs to a stiff froth ; add 2 table- 
spoons sugar, 2 tablespoons currant jelly, 2 tablespoons raspberry 
jam ; beat all well together ; cream may be added or not as you 
choose. Oranges cut up with sugar and grated cocoanut sprinkled 
over them are also nice for cake. 



ALMOND PUDDING. 

One pint shelled almonds, 2 dozen macaroons, the grated rind of 
I lemon, ^ cup sugar, ^ cup butter, the yolks of 6 eggs, i quart 
milk, I pint cream, i tablespoon rice flour. Blanch the almonds and 
pound them in a mortar. Put the milk in a double boiler, reserving 
^ cup. Add the pounded almonds to it. Mix the rice flour with 
the Yz cup cold milk, and stir into the boiling milk. Cook 6 minutes 
and put away to cool. When about half cooled, add the sugar and 
butter, which should have been beaten together until light. When 
cold, add the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, the macaroons, which 
have been dried and rolled fine, and the cream. Butter a pudding 
dish that will hold a little more than 2 quarts ; or, two small ones 
will do. Turn the mixture into this, and bake slowly 45 minutes. 
Serve cold. 

ALMOND PUDDING, NO. 2. 

Blanch and pound, with a little water, 3 ounces sweet and 4 
ounces bitter almonds ; add I pint milk, 3 tablespoons sugar, a little 
grated nutmeg, I tablespoon flour mixed smoothly in a little cold 
milk, I tablespoon grated bread, 2 eggs well beaten, and the whites 
of 2 eggs whisked to a froth ; pour the mixture into a buttered 
mold, cover, and boil quickly ^:( of an hour ; let it stand a few 
minutes before turning out of mold. Serve with vanilla sauce. 



178 DESSERTS. 

AMBER PUDDING. 
One dozen large, tart apples, i cup sugar, the juice and rind of 2 
lemons, 6 eggs, 4 tablespoons butter, enough puff or chopped paste 
to line a 3-pint pudding dish. Pare and quarter the apples. Pare 
the thin rind from the lemon, being careful not to cut into the white 
part. Put the butter, apple, and lemon rind and juice in a stew-pan 
with y^ cup water. Cover tightly, and simmer about y^ hour. Rub 
through a sieve, add the sugar, and set away to cool. Line the dish 
with thin paste. Beat the yolks of the eggs and stir into the cooled 
mixture. Turn this into the lined dish. Bake slowly for j^ hour. 
Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and gradually beat into them 3 
tablespoons powdered sugar. Cover the pudding with this. Return 
to the oven and cook 12 minutes with the doors open. Serve either 
hot or cold. 

ARROWROOT PUDDING. 
One quart milk, 3^ tablespoons arrowroot, 4 eggs, i cup sugar, 

1 teaspoon each of extract nutmeg and cinnamon. Boil the milk, 
add the arrowroot dissolved in a little water, and the sugar; let 
reboil ; take from the fire ; beat in the eggs, Avhipped a little, and the 
extracts ; pour in a well-buttered earthenware dish, and bake in a 
quick oven ^ hour ; a few minutes before taking from the oven, sift 

2 tablespoons sugar over it, and set back to glaze. This pudding is 
generally eaten cold. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

In the first place select two deep earthen dishes, of the same 
size and shape, that will hold 2 or 3 quarts, according to the family ; 
then fill one with nice apples, peeled and sliced thin ; add i teacup 
cold water. Cover the apples with a tender crust, then turn the 
empty dish, after it has been well buttered, over the one in which 
you have the pudding, and place them both in a hot oven. It will 
require about 5^ hour to bake. Let the pudding be just ready for 
the dessert, and do not remove the upper dish until the minute the 
pudding is to be eaten. 

It is nice with sugar and butter, but with rich cream, sweetened, 
it is a very delicious dessert. 



DESSERTS. 179 

APPLE PUDDING, NO. 2. 

To make an apple pudding which is sure to receive praise from 
all who tr>' it, peel, core, and quarter i dozen rich apples, stew them 
in a small stew-pan until tender, then work them through a fine 
sieve. To i cup sugar add i teaspoon ground cinnamon, the grated 
rind of i lemon„l egg, and ^ cup butter; beat well into the apples, 
pour into the paste, and bake slowly. 

BAKED APPLE PUDDING. 

Fill a 3-quart earthen dish with pared and quartered apples; 
sprinkle on these I cup sugar, a little cinnamon, I tablespoon butter, 
and ^2 cup water; cover, and bake 30 minutes. Roll a piece of 
paste into a strip about 2 inches wide, that will reach around the 
pudding dish. Roll the remainder to cover the dish. Take the 
pudding dish from the oven, slip the strip of paste between the 
apple and the dish, and put on the top crust ; return to the oven 
and bake another hour. Serve with a cream sauce. 

DUTCH APPLE PUDDING. 

One pint flour, i teaspoon cream of tartar, j4 teaspoon soda, j4 
teaspoon salt, I egg, I cup milk, 2 tablespoons butter, 4 large apples. 
Mix the salt, soda and cream of tartar with the flour, and rub 
through the sieve ; beat the egg light and add the milk ; rub the 
butter into the flour; pour the milk and egg on this, and mix quickly 
and thoroughly ; spread the dough, about j4 inch deep, on a 
buttered pan ; have the apples pared, cored, and cut into eighths ; 
stick these pieces in rows into the dough; sprinkle with 2 table- 
spoons sugar; bake in a quick oven about 25 minutes. This pud- 
ding is to be eaten with sugar and cream or a simple sauce. 

APPLE FLOAT. 

To I quart apples partially stewed and well mashed, put the 
whites of 3 eggs well beaten, and 4 heaping tablespoons loaf sugar ; 
beat them together 15 minutes, and eat with rich milk and nutmeg. 



l8o DESSERTS. 

STEWED APPLES. 

Eight apples about of a size, peel and take out the core, put in a 
preserving pan ; do not lay them one above the other ; put in ^ 
pound loaf sugar, and as much water as will nearly cover the apples ; 
stew them till soft, take out with a spoon, being careful not to break 
them. Boil the syrup till you have only a little, strain, and 
pour it round the apples. Fill the apples with bright jelly. 

APPLE AND TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Peel and core enough nice firm apples to fill, without crowding, 
a pudding dish ; pour over them i teacup cold water, cover closely and 
steam in the oven until tender ; have ready i cup tapioca which should 
have been soaked for several hours in enough water to cover it ; 
drain the water from the apples, fill the empty centers with sugar, 
stick a clove in each, and pour the tapioca over and betAveen them ; 
bake I hour. Eat either with cream and sugar or with a sauce made 
by rubbing to a cream 2 tablespoons butter with i cup powdered 
sugar. Flavor with a little lemon juice. 

APPLE JONATHAN. 

Fill a pudding dish with apples pared and sliced, and pour over 
the dish a batter made of buttermilk brought to a foam with soda 
and thickened Avith flour, so it will just spread with a spoon. When 
the apples are tender and dinner is served, turn upside down on a 
platter; beat the soft apples smoothly on the crust, add a lump of 
butter, nutmeg or cinnamon, as one prefers. Serve hot, with plenty 
of sweet cream or milk. 

AMBROSIA. 

Eight fine oranges, peeled and sliced, J^ grated cocoanut, ^< cup 
powdered sugar; arrange slices of orange in a glass dish, scatter 
grated cocoanut thickly over them, sprinkle this lightly with sugar, and 
cover with another layer of orange. Fill the dish in this order, 
having a double quantity of cocoanut and sugar at top. Serve soon 
after it is prepared. 



DESSERTS. I8l 

ASPARAGUS PUDDING. 

Boil the tops of 2 bundles asparagus until tender, cut in small 
pieces ; put I ounce butter in a lard-pan on the stove, add 4 eggs 
well beaten, pepper and salt, and I cup milk, stir and beat all 
together, adding flour to thicken, cook, add the asparagus, turn into 
a buttered pan, and bake 2 hours in a very slow oven. Serve with 
drawn butter. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Make a nice short dough, as for baking-powder biscuit ; roll out 
in small round pieces as for pie crust, but a little thicker, and lay 
upon each piece Y^ dozen slices of apples, or halve the apples and 
dig out the cores, and lay a half on each piece of dough and fill the 
hollow with sugar, then place the other half onto the first and fold 
over the crust, pinching the edges tightly together to retain the 
juice; put them into a steamer, cover tightly and steam for I hour, 
or they may be placed on buttered tins and baked, or dropped into 
boiling water and boiled. To be eaten with cream and sugar or 
pudding sauce. 

APPLES WITH RICE. 

Peel and with a scoop take out the cores of as many apples as 
are required for your party, put them in a baking-dish with a little 
lemon peel, and a syrup of sugar and water ; cover with a baking. 
sheet or plate, and let the apples bake very slowly until done, but 
they must not be the least broken ; place the apples on a dish, fill 
up the center of each with boiled rice, place a dried cherry on the 
top, or a little preserve of any kind will do ; put boiled rice also 
around the apples and pour over it the syrup in which they were 
cooked. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE. 
Butter your pudding-dish, line it with bread buttered on both 
sides, put a thick layer of apples, cut in thin slices, sugar, a little 
cinnamon and butter on top, then another layer of bread, apples, 
sugar, cinnamon and butter last. Bake slowly i^ hours, keeping 
the pan covered until yi hour before serving; let the apples brown 
on top. 



Sf^ 



1 82 DESSERTS. 



BANANA PUDDING. 



Cut sponge cake in slices, and put in a glass dish alternately a 
layer of cake and a layer of bananas sliced ; make a soft custard 
with the yolks of 2 eggs, flavor with a little wine, and pour over it ; 
beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and heap over the 
whole. 

BANANA AND APPLE TART. 

Make crust of fine flour and fresh butter;, make little crust, but 
make it good ; slice apples fine and put in dish with 3 or 4 bananas 
sliced, only adding sugar and perhaps a little syrup, if you have 
got it ; cover crust over fruit, brush a little melted butter over top, 
strew white sugar on and bake 20 minutes or more, as required. 

BREAD AND FRUIT PUDDING. 

Soak I cup stale bread crumbs in I pint rich milk, add i table- 
spoon butter, I cup sugar, I saltspoon salt, and spice to taste ; then 
add 3 eggs well beaten, 2 cups fruit, either chopped apples, 
raisins, currants, canned peaches, apricots, or a mixture of 2 or 
more varieties. When using canned fruit, drain it from the syrup, 
and use the latter in making a sauce. Vary the sugar according to 
the fruit. Turn into a buttered pudding mold and steam 2 hours. 

When using stale bread for puddings always soak it in a cold 
liquid. Bread that has been soaked in cold milk or water is light 
and crumbly, whereas that soaked in hot liquid is hekvy. 

BREAD PUDDING, NO. 2. 

Soak I pint crumbs in milk I hour, then squeeze with the hand 
to a pulp, mix well with I gill milk, then add 3 tablespoons sugar, 
^ pound raisins, ]^ pound melted butter, yolks of 4 eggs, then 
Deat the whites to a froth and stir in with the rest ; bake about 
40 minutes. Serve wath wine sauce, hot or cold, to suit taste. 

BLACK PUDDING. 

One cup sour milk, piece of butter the size of an egg, I cup 
molasses, i cup raisins, i teaspoon soda, cinnamon, cloves and all- 



<*. 



DESSERTS. I S3 

spice to taste, flour for stiff batter ; steam i hour or till done and 
serve with a sauce. 

BROWN PUDDING. 

Scald 2 teacups bread crumbs in I teacup milk, mix in 2 cups 
chopped apples, i of sugar, i spoon melted butter, and a little cin- 
namon and nutmeg. Bake very quickly and serve with rich sauce. 

bird's nest pudding. 

Pare and core without quartering enough quick-cooking tart 
apples to fill a pudding-pan, make a custard of i quart milk and 
the yolks of 6 eggs, sweeten, spice, pour over apples, and bake ; 
when done, use the whites of eggs beaten stiff with 6 tablespoons 
white sugar ; spread on the custard, brown lightly, and serve either 
hot or cold. If necessary, apples may be baked a short time 
before adding custard. 

bird's nest pudding, no. 2. 

Make the foundation of nest of blanc mange or corn-starch, 
grate the rinds of 3 lemons, and arrange around the blanc mange 
to represent straw, extract the contents of 4 eggs through a small 
hole and fill the egg-shells with hot blanc mange or corn-starch ; 
when cold break off the shells and lay the molded eggs in nest. 
Serve with jam or preserves. 

BOILED pudding. 

To I quart., flour, 4 eggs, I cup lard or butter, i teaspoon soda, 
2 teaspoons cream of tartar, add milk enough to make a stiff batter. 
Then stir in 2 cups seedless raisins or dried cherries. 

BROWN BETTY. 

Grate nice tart apples, and a small loaf stale bread ; put into a 
pudding-dish a layer of apple, sprinkle with sugar and a little nut- 
meg, put some little bits of butter over it ; then proceed the same 
with a layer of the bread crumbs, and so on till the dish is filled ; 



1 84 DESSERTS. 

have bread crumbs for the top layer. Cover the pudding-dish till 
nearly done, then uncover till nicely browned, and serve with 
sweetened cream or any pudding sauce. 

PEACH BETTY. 

Remove the skins of the peaches ; put them whole, with layers 
of bread crumbs and sugar, in a baking-tin, brown the top and 
serve with a sweet or sharp hot butter sauce. 

OATMEAL BROWN BETTY. 

In most families, where oatmeal, cerealine or cracked wheat is 
customarily cooked for breakfast, there is usually a little left, from 
2 or 3 spoons, perhaps, to a pint. This will make a nice dessert in 
many different ways. One of the simplest is oatmeal brown betty, 
for which you need only arrange in a pudding-dish alternately 
layers of apples, cut as for pie, with the cold oatmeal. Sprinkle a 
little sugar and spice over each layer of apples, put oatmeal last, 
smooth it over with a knife, and dot it with a few bits of butter. 
Let it brown nicely, and eat hot with a" liquid sauce or sugar and 
cream. 

BABA. 

An extremely delicate and simple addition to the dessert is 
Baba, a Turkish invention. Rub i pound butter into i pound 
flour, strew into it i pound seedless raisins, 4 ounces finely sifted 
sugar, Yz teaspoon salt. Make a hollow in the center and put in 
it I tablespoon yeast, 8 eggs beaten to a foam ; boil i dram saffron 
in y^ pint water, strain it, add to the liquor a large glass sherry or 
whatever wine is preferred, then stir all in the paste; beat it for 
Yi hour, cover, and leave it for 6 hours; then beat it again for ^ 
hour, fill a buttered mold, and bake immediately for ^ hour. 
When thoroughly done, turn out of the mold. 

CREAM BATTER PUDDING. 

Take i cup sour cream and rub with i cup flour until smooth; 
then pour in i cup milk, 3 eggs, the yolks and whites beaten 



DESSERTS. 185 

separately, a little salt and 7^ teaspoon soda ; bake in quick oven. 
To be eaten with cream and sugar. 

CUSTARD BREAD PUDDING. 

Two cups fine dry crumbs, i quart milk, 5 eggs, beaten light, i 
tablespoon corn-starch, i teaspoon salt, and ^ teaspoon soda, dis- 
solved in milk, flavor to taste. Soak the crumbs in the milk, and 
heat in the custard-kettle to a boil ; add the corn-starch wet with 
cold milk, cook i minute, turn out and beat hard : when smooth 
and almost cold, whip in the yolks, the flavoring, lastly, the 
whites. Boil in a buttered mold i^ hours. Eat hot with sweet 
sauce. It is excellent. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

Butter the mold or basin in which the pudding is to be boiled, 
and strew over the bottom of it i ounce candied peel, cut in small 
pieces, and i cup large, fine raisins; on these place a layer of 
sponge cake, cut in thin slices ; put a few drops of melted butter 
on each piece of cake, and scatter a layer of English currants over 
the whole ; then add another layer of sponge cake and more cur- 
rants; proceed in this way until the dish is nearly full. Now 
flavor I pint milk with some grated lemon peel; add 4 eggs 
well beaten, and 3 tablespoons sugar. Beat the mixture thor- 
oughly; then strain it into the mold, which should be quite full. 
Let the pudding stand for 2 hours; then tie a cloth over the top, 
or cover closely, set in boiling water, and let boil for i hour. Let 
stand a few minutes after taking it up before removing the cover; 
then turn quickly out of the mold or basin. Serve with " fruit 
sauce" or "wine sauce." This pudding is delicious when iced. 

FROZEN CABINET PUDDING. 

One dozen macaroons, i}4 dozen sponge fingers, i dozen cocoa- 
nut cakes, i cup English currants, i quart custard. Wet a melon 
mold in cold water. Sprinkle the sides and bottom with currants. 
Arrange layers of the mixed cakes, which sprinkle with currants. 
Continue this until all the cake and currants are used. Put i^ 



1 86 DESSERTS. 

pints milk in the double boiler. Beat together 4 eggs and 2 table- 
spoons sugar. When the milk is hot stir in ^ package gelatine, 
which has been soaking i hour in yi cup milk. Add the beaten 
egg and sugar, and cook 4 minutes, stirring all the while. Take 
off and add l^^ teaspoon salt and i teaspoon vanilla, or 2 table- 
spoons wine. Pour this, a few spoons at a time, on the cake. Set 
away to cool. When cold, cover with thick white paper, and put 
on the tin cover. Pack the mold in salt and ice for 4 or 6 hours. 
At serving time, wipe the mold free of salt and ice, and dip for a 
moment in warm water. Take off the cover and paper and turn 
out. Serve with quince sauce. 

CASSAVA PUDDING. 
One pint milk, ^< cup cassava, 2 eggs, ]4 cup cocoanut, a little 
salt, a lump of butter the size of a walnut, sugar and vanilla to 
your taste. Put together, omitting the whites of the eggs, cook 
in a basin on top of the stove, or in a frying pan, stirring it con- 
stantly; a few moments only are requisite; the cassava does not 
need to be soaked like other preparations of tapioca. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add i small spoon pul- 
verized sugar, put over the top of the pudding, and brown slightly 
in the oven. 

CEREALINE PUDDING. 
Two cups cerealine, i cup sugar, 4 eggs, y^ cup flour, ^ cup 
butter, I teaspoon baking powder, i glass brandy. Rub the butter 
and sugar to a smooth paste or cream. Add the eggs, 2 at a time, 
and beat 2 minutes between each addition of ecfss. Add the flour, 
cerealine, baking powder and brandy. Mix well together, and put 
the whole into a well-buttered mold. Set in a sauce-pan with 
boiling water 'enough to reach half way up the sides of the mold. 
Steam in the oven i^^ hours, and turn out on a dish carefully, and 
serve with sauce. Flavor with lemon. 

CRACKER PUDDING. 
Four crackers pounded and sifted, small piece of butter, ij^ 
pints milk, scalded and poured on the cracker and butter, 4 eggs, 
sugar to sweeten, nutmeg. 



DESSERTS. 187 

m 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One quart milk, 3 ounces grated chocolate ; scald the 
milk and chocolate together; when cool, add the yolks of 5 eggs 
and I cup sugar; bake about 25 minutes; beat the whites from the 
top ; brown in the oven ; eat cold, 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING, NO. 2 — Eggless. 

Heat I quart milk to near boiling point. Thicken with dis- 
solved corn-starch, and sweeten. Stir in ^ cup grated chocolate. 
Flavor with vanilla and serve with cream when cold. 

CHOCOLATE MERINGUE PUDDING. 

Boil I pint rich milk, add ^ cup butter, i cup sugar and 3 
ounces grated chocolate; let it boil, and when cool add the whites 
of 4 eggs ; pour this in a pudding-dish lined with slices of sponge 
cake and bake; cover with meringue and let it brown. Eat with 
lemon sauce. 

CHARLOTTE PUDDING. 

Remove the crust from a loaf of bread, dip in milk, and spread 
the slices with butter. Pare and cut apples very thin. Lay the 
bread in a buttered dish, spread over the apples, sweeten and flavor 
with the juice and grated rind of i lemon. Bake till the apples 
are tender. This may be prepared in the same way with pie-plant. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One cup milk, 2 of flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 2 table- 
spoons melted butter, I egg, i cup sugar; steam ^ or bake i 
hour; serve with sauce. 

COTTAGE FRUIT PUDDING. 

Put in a deep baking .dish a layer of fresh berries; mix i cup 
sugar, I tablespoon butter, i Qgg, i cup milk, 3 cups flour, 
and 2 teaspoons baking powder. Pour over the berries and 
bake until brown, remove from the oven, turn the top side down, 
and serve with sauce. 



1 88 DESSERTS. 



COCOANUT PUDDING. 



One quart milk, lo tablespoons grated cocoanut, i cup 
powdered sugar and whites of lo eggs; bake i hour, evenly and 
slowly; to be served cold, with sugar and cream. 

COCOANUT rUDDING, NO. 2. 

Soak sufficient stale bread to make a pudding, the size you 
require. After it is well soaked take a fork and see that no lumps 
of bread remain; then add ^ cup grated cocoanut ; make a custard 
of I quart milk and 4 eggs, flavor with nutmeg, sweeten with white 
sugar; pour over and bake immediately. 

COCOANUT CREAM PUDDING. 

Three tablespoons tapioca soaked over night, I quart boiling 
milk, I small cup sugar and the yolks of 4 eggs. Boil 10 minutes; 
add 3 tablespoons cocoanut and boil 5 minutes longer. Beat the 
whites to a stiff froth, stir in a little sugar and spread on top. 
Sprinkle with cocoanut and brown. Serve cold. 

COCOANUT AND RICE PUDDING. 

One-half cup rice in 3 pints milk; set in a tin pail in a ket- 
tle of water ; let it simmer till the rice is cooked very soft ; set it 
by to cool. »Beat 5 eggs, leaving out 2 whites, I coffecup sugar and 
I grated cocoanut ; stir in the rice and milk when cold, and set it 
in the oven to bake ; take out as soon as the custard forms ; do not 
wait for it to set, or it will whey. Make a meringue of the 2 whites 
of eggs and 6 tablespoons pulverized sugar beaten to a stiff froth; 
pile up. on the top and return to the oven for 2 minutes. Very- 
nice hot or cold. 

CREAM PUDDING. 

One quart milk, i cup hot boiled rice, well cooked but not 
broken, I cup sugar, i heaping tablespoon corn-starch, 5 eggs, % 
teaspoon cinnamon and the same of grated lemon peel. Heat the 
milk, stir in the corn-starch wet up with cold milk, then the beaten 
yolks and sugar. Add to these the heaping cup boiled rice. Stir 



DESSERTS. 189 

until it begins to thicken, add the seasoning, and pour into a but- 
tered bake-dish. Bake until well " set ;" spread with a meringue of 
the whites and a little sugar, made very stiff. When this has 
colored lightly, take from the oven. Make on Saturday, and set 
on ice until Sunday. The colder it is the better. 

CORN-STARCH PUDDING. 

One and one-half quarts milk, put on the stove to boil ; while 
heating, stir together 4 heaping tablespoons corn-starch, yolk of I 
egg, ^ cup sugar, salt, i teaspoon extract lemon, cold milk enough to 
mix this batter together; then stir it into the boiling milk and 
pour into the pudding-dish ; beat the white of i egg, add i table- 
spoon sugar, frost the top and set in the oven to brown. Serve 
with a sauce of cream and sugar. 

CORN-STARCH PUDDING, NO. 2. 

One pint milk, whites of 3 eggs, 2 tablespoons corn-starch, and 
a little salt. Put the milk in a pail set in a kettle of hot water, 
and when it reaches the boiling point add the starch dissolved in a 
little cold milk, let it cool a very little and add the whites of the 
eggs whipped to a stiff froth, beat well and fill cups about half 
full. Set in a cool place. 

For sauce make a boiled custard: Bring to the boiling point i 
pint milk; add 3 tablespoons sugar, then the beaten yolks thinned 
by adding i tablespoon milk, stirring all the time until it thickens; 
flavor with 2 teaspoons lemon or vanilla ; set to cool. In serving 
put one of the molds in a saucer and pour over it some of the 
custard. 

CHERRY PUDDING. 

One cup cream, i cup milk, i egg, i teaspoon soda, i cup pitted 
cherries, and flour to make batter, add the fruit last. Bake in a 
buttered dish, and serve with sugar and cream. 

CHERRY PUDDING, NO. 2, 

Take 2 eggs, i cup milk and enough flour to make a stiff batter, 
add as many cherries as can be stirred in ; steam it 2 hours and 



190 



DESSERTS. 



serve with sauce. Peach dumplings or peach pudding may be 
made from the above recipes by substituting peaches for the 
cherries. 

CUP PUDDING. 

Mix carefully i cup each of flour, ground rice, finely chopped 
suet, milk and raisins, with i tablespoon soda, the same of ground 
ginger (if liked), and i tablespoon vinegar; boil 4 hours and serve 
with sweet sauce; but it is very good without. 

CURRANT PUDDING. 

One pound ripe currants, pinch of salt, 10 tablespoons sugar, i 
cup flour, 4 eggs, i tablespoon soda, and I tablespoon butter. Boil 
and eat with foaming sauce. 



CROQUETTES OF RICE. 

Put y^ pound rice, i pint milk, 3 tablespoons finely sifted sugar, 
a piece of butter the size of a small nut, and the thin rind of a 
lemon, into a sauce-pan. Any other flavoring may be used if pre- 
ferred. Simmer gently until the rice is tender and the milk 
absorbed. It must be boiled until thick and dry, or it will be 
difficult to mold into croquettes. Beat it thoroughly for 3 or 4 

minutes, then turn it out, 
and when it is cold and still, 
form it into small balls; dip 
these in Qgg, sprinkle a few 
bread crumbs over them and 
fry them in clarified fat till 
they are lightly and equally 
browned. Put them on a 
piece of clean blotting paper, to drain the fat from them, and 
serve them piled high on the dish. If it can be done without 
breaking them, it is an improvement to introduce a little jam into 
the middle of each one, or jam may be served with them. Time, 
about I hour to boil the rice, 10 minutes to fry the croquettes. 




DESSERTS. 191 



DANISH PUDDING. 



Tapioca i cup, 3 pints water, j^ teaspoon salt, yi cup sugar, 

1 tumbler any high colored jelly. Wash the tapioca in the even- 
ing and soak over night in the water; in the morning put into a 
double boiler and cook i hour, stirring occasionally ; then add 
salt, sugar, and jelly, and mix thoroughly; then turn into a mold 
or serving-cups which have been dipped into cold water, and put in 
a cool place to " set " for dinner or tea ; serve with cream and sugar. 

DELMONICO PUDDING. 

Let I quart milk come to a boil, flavor with lemon ; when 
cold, beat yolks of 5 eggs with 5 tablespoons white sugar, blend 

2 tablespoons corn-starch with cold milk, and mix with the 
eggs and sugar; pour all into the milk; thicken on the fire, 
stirring all the time, turn into a dish and bake 20 minutes. When 
cold, cover with a meringue. 

DATE PUDDING. 

One cup molasses, i of chopped suet, i of milk, 354^ of flour, 
2 eggs, I teaspoon soda, i of cinnamon, ^ teaspoon nutmeg, i 
pint dates; mix together the molasses, suet, spice, and the dates, 
cut fine ; dissolve the soda with i tablespoon hot water, and mix 
with the milk; add to the other ingredients; beat the eggs light, 
and stir into the mixture; add the flour and beat thoroughly; 
butter 2 small or i large brown-bread mold ; turn the mixture 
into the mold or molds, and steam 5 hours; serve with creamy or 
wine sauce. 

DOWN-EAST PUDDING. 

One pint molasses, i quart flour, i tablespoon salt, i teaspoon 
soda, 3 pints blackberries; boil 3 hours and serve with sauce made 
in the following manner: One cup powdered sugar, ^ cup 
butter, I egg, 2 teaspoons boiling water, i of brandy; beat the 
butter to a cream, and add, very gradually, the sugar and brandy; 
beat in the yolk of the Qgg, and when perfectly creamy add the 
white, which has been beaten to a froth; then add the water and 
stir very carefully. 



192 DESSERTS. 



DYSPEPTIC PUDDING. 



One pint Graham flour, a pinch of salt, i quart apple sauce, 
thinned with boiling water; boil together 10 minutes; serve with 
cream or milk and sugar. 

EGLANTINE PUDDING. 

Cut thin slices of light white bread, and line a pudding-shape 
with them, putting in alternate layers of the bread and orange 
marmalade or any other preserve, till the mold is nearly full; 
pour over all i pint warm milk, in which 4 well-beaten eggs have 
been mixed; cover the mold with a cloth, and boil for i]^ hours. 

EGG PUDDING. 

Half pound bread crumbs, ^ pound raisins, i pound chopped 
apples, 4 eggs, i cup sugar, piece of butter the size of an &ggy 
spice; boil in a mold; serve with hard sauce. 

ENGLISH PUDDING Eggless. 

One cup molasses, }i cup butter, i cup milk, i teaspoon 
soda, I teaspoon mixed spices, i cup chopped raisins, 3^ cups 
ilcur; steam 2 or 3 hours. 

eve's PUDDING. 

Take 6 ounces each of flour, fresh butter, and sugar; beat the 
butter to a cream, and beat the sugar and flour into it ; separate 
the yolks from the whites of 4 eggs, beat them until light, add the 
yolks first, then the whites, to the batter, and lastly ^ dozen 
almonds, blanched and pounded, and the grated rind of i lemon; 
beat well, and fill small cups to about half; then set before the 
fire to rise. In 5 minutes put them into the oven and bake for 
y^ hour. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One pound figs, chopped fine, i pint grated bread crumbs, I cup 
finely-chopped suet, ^ cup sugar, i cup milk, 3 eggs, i large tea- 



DESSERTS. 193 

spoon cinnamon, i large teaspoon nutmeg, i glass wine, if desired ; 
dip a pudding-cloth in boiling water and dredge it with flour, tie it 
up tightly, leaving a little room for it to swell. Steam 3 hours. 

FIG PUDDING, NO. 2. 

Two cups fresh figs, chopped fine, i cup bread or cracker crumbs, 
moistened with hot water, ^ cup sugar, 2 beaten eggs, I cup milk, 

2 spoons melted butter. Bake 20 minutes. 

FARINA PUDDING. 

One quart boiling milk, i cup farina, yolk i egg, and 2 whites,, 
beaten separately, }4 cup sugar. Stir the farina and sugar into 
the boiling milk, cool below the scalding point, then stir in the 
eggs. Serve cool with jelly or fruit syrup. 

FOUR FRUIT PUDDING. 

Butter thin slices of baker's bread on both sides ; stew together 
raspberries, blueberries, blackberries, and currants, and sweeten to 
taste. Fill the pudding dish with a layer of bread and a layer of 
fruit, alternately, and cover the top with a frosting of whites of eggs 
beaten with sugar ; set it in the oven long enough to brown the 
frosting delicately. This is 'best prepared the day before it is to be 
eaten. It is to be served with cream if convenient. 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

Take i cup each of milk, suet (minced), raisins, currants, and 
molasses ; stiffen with bread crumbs and a little flour, having added 

3 teaspoons baking powder to the flour and crumbs ; boil or steam 
till done. This pudding is equally as good the second day as the 
first. 

FRUIT PUDDING, NO. 2. 

« 

To make this pudding take i cup each of sugar, milk and 
chopped raisins or currants, i egg, I large spoon butter, 2 cups flour 
and i^ teaspoons baking powder. Mix quickly together, put in a 

13 



194 DESSERTS. 

greased pan and bake or steam as preferred. Use with a hot sauce 
or butter and sugar rubbed together. 

DRIED FRUIT TUDDING WITH RICE. 

Four cups cold boiled rice, 2 cups sugar, 2 cups dried apricots, 
plums, pears or peaches, i cup boiling water. Arrange in several 
alternate layers in a deep pudding-dish, sprinkling each layer of fruit 
with sugar, pour the water over the top, and bake 30 minutes, 
covered closely. Serve with cream or milk. 

FLORENTINE PUDDING. 

Put I quart milk into your pan, let it come to a boil, mix 
smoothly 3 tablespoons corn-starch and a little cold milk ; add the 
yolks of 3 eggs beaten, ^ cup sugar, flavor with vanilla, lemon, or 
anything your fancy suggests ; stir into the scalding milk, continue 
stirring till of the consistency of starch, ready for use, then put into 
the pan or dish you wish to serve it in ; beat the whites of the eggs 
with I cup pulverized sugar, and spread ovQr the top; place in 
the oven a few minutes, till the frosting is a pretty brown. Can be 
eaten with cream, or is good enough without. For a change, you 
can bake in cups. 

GELATINE PUDDING. 

One ounce gelatine', i pint cold milk; set on range, and let 
come slowly to a boil, stirring occasionally; separate the yolks 
and whites of 6 fresh eggs; beat the yolks well and stir slowly 
into the hot milk; add ^ pound granulated sugar ; when quite cold, 
stir in i quart whipped cream ; flavor with vanilla and lemon 
extract mixed; have the whites of the eggs beaten very stiff, and 
stir in the last thing; pack on ice. 

GINGER PUDDING. 

One egg, l cup molasses, Yz cup butter, ^ cup fruit, ^2 cup hot 
• water, i tablespoon ginger, i teaspoon soda; stir stiff and steam i 
hour. 

Sauce for Ginger Ptuiding — One &gg, i cup sugar, ^ cup butter, 



DESSERTS. 195 

I tablespoon flour, i^ tablespoons extract lemon. Pour boiling 
water in and make like thin starch. 



GRAHAM PUDDING. 

One-half cup molasses, % cup butter, ^ cup sour milk, 13^ 
cups Graham flour, i egg, i teaspoon soda, i cup raisins, and 
spices. Steam 3 hours. 

Sauce for sajne — Large teaspoon b.utter, y^ cup sugar, i table- 
spoon corn-starch, }^ pint boiling water; flavor with vanilla. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING. 

A most delicious accompaniment to a meat course. Take i 
quart milk, 5 eggs, 2 tablespoons melted butter, i tablespoon white 
sugar, and 12 large ears green corn; grate the corn from the cob; 
beat the whites and the yolks of the eggs separately; put the corn 
and yolks together, stir hard and add the butter, then the milk 
gradually, beating all the while, next the sugar, and a little salt, 
lastly the whites. Bake slowly at first, covering the dish for an 
hour; remove the cover and brown nicely. Serve with sugar and 
butter. 

, GERMAN PUFFS. 

The yolks of 6 eggs, 5 tablespoons flour, i of melted butter, i 
pint milk, ^ teaspoon salt ; beat the yolks of the eggs light, add 
the milk to them, and pour part of this mixture on the flour; beat 
light and smooth; then add the remainder of the eggs and milk, 
and the salt and butter; butter muffin-pans, and half fill them with 
the batter; the quantities given will make 12 puffs; bake 20 min- 
utes in a quick oven ; serve on a hot platter with the sauce poured 
over them. 

Sauce — The whites of the 6 eggs, i cup powdered sugar, the juice 
of 2 oranges or of i lemon. After beating the whites to a stiff 
froth, gradually beat in the sugar, and then the juice of the 
fruit. 



196 desserts. 

hen's nest. 

Make blanc mange, pour in egg shells and set to cool; when 
cold, break the egg shells, place in glass dish, cut strips of lemon 
peel and let boil in syrup of sugar and water till tender, and 
sprinkle on the egg shapes, and make custard and pour over the 
nest. 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. 

One cup sugar, ^ cup butter, 2 cups milk, 2 eggs, 2 cups berries, 
I teaspoon soda, 2 of cream of tartar, salt ; mix stiff as ginger- 
bread ; boil 2 hours in a tin pail; serve with sauce. 

HUCKLEBERRY ROLY-POLY. 

Four cups flour, 2 cups milk, 2 tablespoons mixed lard and butter, 
I teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, I saltspoon salt, 4 cups 
huckleberries. Sift the salt and cream of tartar with the flour, 
rub in the shortening and wet with the milk; roll out into a sheet 
longer than broad and }( inch thick; spread thickly with the fruit, 
sweetening it well with white sugar; roll up the dough with the 
berries inside, as you would a sheet of paper, pinching the ends 
together that the juice may not run out; baste it up in a pudding 
cloth that has been wrung out in hot water and well floured ; bake 
i^ hours; eat with hard sauce. 

HONEY PUDDING. 

Beat 3^ pound honey with 6 ozs. butter, to a cream, and stir in 
I cup bread-crumbs; beat the yolks of 8 eggs, then beat all 
together 10 minutes; pour in suitable dish to set in water and boil, 
or steam, i}4 hours. Make a sauce with arrowroot or corn-starch, 
and flavor with extract of orange. 

HOMINY PUDDING. 

One cup boiled hominy, i}4 pints milk, 3 eggs, i tablespoon 
butter, I cup sugar. Pour into buttered pudding-dish, and bake 
20 minutes. 



DESSERTS. 197 

INCOMPARABLE PUDDING. 

This is a favorite on Queen Victoria's table. Beat ^ pound 
butter to a cream, stir in the yolks of 6 eggs, 6 ounces sifted sugar, 
14 pound Sultana raisins, the juice and grated rind of 2 lemons ; add 
the whites of the eggs beaten to a foam. Line a buttered mold 
Avith slices of citron, blanched almonds, candied orange and limes or 
other fruit, angelica, vanilla and rose drops, and pour in the mixture ; 
cover with oiled paper and bake. Serve with a sauce made of 
butter, lemon and sugar. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

Three cups corn-meal mush, 2 tablespoons white flour, 5 beaten 
eggs, ^ cup melted butter, i cup molasses, ^ cup milk, juice and 
rind of i lemon. Stir smoothly together and bake ^ hour. 

BOILED INDIAN PUDDING. 

One and one-half cups sour milk, 2 eggs well beaten, i small tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in a little hot water, then stir in corn-meal till 
you have a batter a little thicker than for griddle cakes ; fruit may 
be added. Put in a bag and boil i hour. Make a sauce of cream, 
sugar, and nutmeg. 

DELICATE INDIAN PUDDING. 

One quart milk, 2 heaping tablespoons Indian meal, 4 of sugar, 
I of butter, 3 eggs, i tablespoon salt ; boil the milk in a double 
boiler, sprinkle the meal into it, stirring all the while; cook 12 
minutes, stirring often; beat together the eggs, salt, sugar, and y^ 
teaspoon ginger; stir the butter into the meal and milk, pour this 
gradually on the ^^^ mixture. Bake slowly i hour. 

JELLY PUDDING. 

One pint bread or cracker crumbs, i quart milk, yolks of 4 eggs, 
beaten, i cup sugar; bake ^ hour. When cool spread with jelly, 
and then cover the top with a meringue made of the beaten whites 
of the eggs and a little sugar. 



198 DESSERTS. 

JAM PUDDING. 

Two teacups flour, in which has been well mixed 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, piece of butter size of an egg well mixed through 
flour; made into a dough with cold water; roll into sheet and 
spread with a teacup of any jam or jelly ; roll dough as you would 
roll jelly cake, pinch ends and seam firmly together, place in well- 
buttered steamer and steam i hour. Serve with cream and sugar, 
or lemon sauce. 

JELLY RICE. 

Mix 4 ounces rice flour smoothly and gradually with i quart 
cold milk, put them into a sauce-pan, with ^ ounce clarified isin- 
glass, the thin rind of ^ lemon, 4 bitter almonds, blanched and 
pounded, and 4 ounces sugar; boil and stir briskly until quite thick; 
take out the lemon-rind and pour the mixture into a damp mold. 
When it is firmly set, turn it on a glass dish, pour melted currant 
jelly, or any fruit syrup, round it, and send a dish of cream to table 
with it. 

KISS PUDDING. 

Beat the yolks of 3 eggs and ^^ cup sugar till light, add i^ 
tablespoons corn-starch, stir in i pint boiling milk, stir on the stove 
till thick, pour in a pudding-dish ; beat the whites of the eggs with 
^ cup sugar, spread over the top and brown. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Two eggs, 4 tablespoons flour, ^ cup sweet cream, i cup milk, I 
tablespoon butter, i cup sugar, grated rind and juice of J^ lemon. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

LEMON PUDDING, NO. 2. 

One cup flour, i cup sugar, i cup bread crumbs, ^ cup melted 
butter, yolks of 3 eggs beaten, 2 cups milk, juice and grated rind of i 
lemon. Bake 20 minutes, when cool, cover with a meringue of the 
whites of the eggs, beaten up with 3 tablespoons powdered sugar. 



DESSERTS. 199 

LEMON PUDDING, NO. 3. 

To the juice and yellow rind of 4 lemons, add ^ pint water 
and J^ pound sugar, cover closely for i hour, then strain through a 
eloth, add i ounce isinglass and put in a sauce-pan with 6 well- 
beaten eggs ; set over the fire and keep stirring one way till as thick 
as cream ; when milk-warm put in molds dipped in cold water. 
Serve ice cold. This is a most refreshing dessert. 

MALAGAN PUDDING. 

One-third cup rice, i cup sugar, 2 eggs, I pint milk, 5^ lemon 
and salt. Soak the rice over night ; beat the yolks ot the eggs with 

1 tablespoon of the sugar, and grate in the lemon rind, add the rice 
and milk ; bake i hour ; take the whites of the eggs and beat to a 
stiff froth with the rest of the sugar, then add the lemon juice; 
pour it over the pudding after it is baked, and brown it in the oven 

2 or 3 minutes. To be eaten cold. 

MITCHELL PUDDING. 

One cup raisins, i cup chopped suet or butter, i cup molasses 
(some like i cup sugar with 2 spoons molasses better), i cup sour 
milk, I teaspoon soda, salt, flour to make a stiff batter ; steam 3 or 
4 hours. Sauce. 

MINUTE PUDDING. 

Five heaping tablespoons flour, 3 beaten eggs, ^ cup milk, I 
teaspoon salt ; beat all together and stir into i pint boiling milk, 
removing from the stove as soon as it thickens. Serve with trans- 
parent sauce, or with sweetened milk. 

MARROW PUDDING. 

Grate I large loaf baker's bread and pour on the crumbs i pint 
rich milk boiling hot ; when cold, add 4 eggs and }^ pound beef's 
marrow sliced thin, 4 tablespoons lemon juice, in which I level 
teaspoon mace has been soaked and stirred, i teaspoon extract 
nectarine, and i tablespoon rose-water ; add 2 cups raisins and i 



200 DESSERTS. 

of blanched almonds, if you wish ; boil 3 hours. You can omit the 
fruit and use i pound marrow instead of ^, and bake it. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

Shell I pint chestnuts, take off the skin, put them in a sauce- 
pan and cover with boiling water, boil 10 minutes, and press 
through a colander; shell, blanch and pound I pint almonds; cut 
I pound candied fruits into small pieces; put I pint water and I 
pound sugar on to boil, let boil 15 minutes; beat the yolks of 6 
eggs until very light, add them to the boiling syrup, and stir over 
the fire until very hot, then take off and beat with a spoon until 
cool, then add the fruit and nuts, with i tablespoon vanilla and i 
pint cream ; mix well, put in a freezer and freeze. When hard 
stand away 4 or 5 hours before serving. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Grate 3 sponge biscuits in enough milk to make a paste; beat 
3 eggs and stir them in with the juice of i lemon and ^ the peei 
grated ; put i cup orange juice and i of sugar, with ^ cup melted 
butter in the mixture, stir it well, put in a dish with puff paste 
around it, and bake slowly i hour. 

ORANGE PUDDING, NO. 2. 

Strain through a coarse sieve the juice and pulp of 8 oranges, 
add the juice and rind of 2 lemons, dissolve i ounce gelatine in I 
cup hot water ; when cool add the oranges, with i pint clarified 
sugar, stir and pour in a mold, cool, turn out and garnish with 
fresh berries. 

ORANGE PUDDING, NO. 3. 

One and one-half cups granulated and 6 tablespoons powdered 
sugar, 6 eggs, 6 large or 8 small sweet oranges, ^^ package gel- 
atine, I quart boiling milk; soak the gelatine for 2 hours in I cup 
of the milk; put the remaining milk in the double boiler; beat 
together the yolks of the eggs and the granulated sugar; when 
the milk boils stir in the gelatine, and then the beaten yolks and 



DESSERTS. 20I 

sugar; stir constantly until the mixture begins to thicken, which 
will be about 5 minutes, then remove from the fire and put away 
to cool. Pare the oranges and free them of seeds and tough 
parts, put them in a large glass dish, and when the custard has 
cooled pour it over the fruit ; let this stand in a cool place 6 or 8 
hours ; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and gradually 
beat in the powdered sugar, cover the pudding with this and serve. 

ORANGE CHARLOTTE. 

Take ^ box gelatine, }4, cup cold water, y^ cup boiling water, i 
cup sugar, juice of i lemon, i cup orange juice and pulp, 3 eggs, 
whites only. Line a mold or bowl with lady-fingers or sections of 
oranges ; soak the gelatine in cold water till soft ; pour on the boil- 
ing water; add the sugar and the lemon juice; strain and add the 
orange juice and pulp with a little of the grated rind; cool in a pan 
of ice-water; beat the whites of the eggs stiff and when the orange 
jelly begins to harden, beat it till light ; add the beaten whites, and 
beat together till stiff enough to drop ; pour into the mold. One 
pint whipped cream may be used instead of the whites of 
the eggs, or it may be piled on the top after the Charlotte is 
removed from the mold. 

PEASE PUDDING. 

Take I pint dry split pease, tie loosely in a cloth, put them into 
water and boil 2 hours ; when soft take out and rub smooth with a 
little salt, I tablespoon butter and one beaten egg; tie up again in 
the cloth and boil another hour. Good with corned beef. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound raisins, i of currants, i of suet chopped fine, and add 
^ pound stale bread crumbs, y^ pound flour, % pound brown 
sugar, rind of I lemon, chopped fine, ^ nutmeg grated, 5 eggs, ^2 
pound mixed candied peel, ^ pint brandy; mix well the dry 
ingredients; beat the eggs with the brandy; pour this over the 
other things and thoroughly mix; to be boiled in a basin or mold 
for 6 hours at the time of making, and 6 hours when wanted for use. 



202 . DESSERTS. 

PLUM PUDDING, NO. 2. 

One pint chopped suet, I pint tart apples, I pint raisins, I pint 
currants, >^ pint milk, i cup citron ; beat 8 eggs and mix with the 
above, and add sufficient flour to make it stick together; boil 3 
hours in a cloth bag and serve with sauce. 

BAKED PLUM PUDDING. 

One and one-half cups suet, chopped fine, i cup raisins, stoned, 
y^ cup milk, I cup currants, i teaspoon saleratus, yi cup citron, 
chopped, y^ teaspoon each of spice and salt, yi cup sugar, ^ cup 
molasses, 2 eggs, flour enough for a stiff batter. Bake 2 hours 
and serve with sauce. 

CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

Shred finely ^ pound beef suet, and add to it a pinch of salt, 
i^ pounds bread crumbs, ^^ pound flour, ^ pound raisins, ^ 
pound currants, picked and dried, 2 ounces candied lemon and 

citron together, and ^ a large 
nutmeg; mix these thoroughly, 
then add 4 eggs and milk enough 
to moisten it, but not too much 
or the pudding will be heavy ; 
^m tie in a pudding-cloth, well 
floured, and boil for 5 or 6 
hours; or, we think better when 
boiled in a mold, which should be well buttered before the mixture 
is put in. The mold should not be quite full, and should be 
covered with i or 2 folds of paper, buttered and floured, and then 
with a floured pudding-cloth. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound beef suet, 3^ pound bread crumbs, not flour, ^ 
pound raisins, ^ pound currants, 2 ounces sweet almonds, with 2 
or 3 bitter ones, 8 eggs, well-beaten, 14^ pound citron, i glass brandy 
and I of sherry wine; grate in ^ a nutmeg, and sweeten to your 




DESSERTS. 203 

taste; mix all these ingredients well ; boil 6 hours in a bowl or 
cloth. When turned out and ready for the table, pour over brandy, 
set on fire and carry to table surrounded by blue flame. This 
quantity will be dessert for 6 persons. Two or three times the 
quantity may be made, boiled 5 hours, and set away for use New 
Year's, Easter, or any intervening birthday. It will be good at the 
end of 12 months. When wanted to use, boil 2 hours longer. 

PARIS PUDDING. 

Boil I pint thick cream ; beat the yolks of 6 eggs with i cup 
sugar, until light ; stir them into the boiling cream and let thicken ; 
take from the fire, pour in i pint cold cream ; flavor with 2 
teaspoons vanilla, let stand until cool, and freeze; when frozen 
pack into a round mold, leaving a hole in the center; fill with 
orange ice, cover with the pudding; place in salt and ice, and let 
stand 2 hours. Serve with sauce made with whipped cream, 
flavored with vanilla. 

POOR man's pudding. 

Take i quart milk, 6 eggs, 6 tablespoons flour, and a little salt ; 
bake 5^ hour; use butter and sugar dip. 

prune whip. 

Remove the pits from I pound cooking prunes; put them on the 
fire with water enough to cover and boil until soft ; if necessary add 
a little more water to keep from burning; take a spoon and mash 
thoroughly; add and stir in well 3^ pound pulverized sugar; beat 
the whites of 6 eggs to a stiff froth, and mix well with the prunes; 
put in a pudding-dish and set in the oven for 5 minutes to brown. 
This is eaten with cream or milk over it. Other fruit may be substi- 
tuted for prunes if preferred. ' 

PEACH PUDDING. 

A delicious peach pudding is made by putting enough whole 
peaches, with the skins removed of course, in a pudding-dish, and 
pouring over them 2 cups water; cover the dish, and set it in a hot 



204 DESSERTS. 

oven; when the peaches are soft take the dish from the oven, 
drain off the juice, and let it stand until it is cool, then add to it i 
pint milk, 4 eggs, well-beaten, i small cup flour with i teaspoon 
baking-powder mixed with it, stirred in so gradually and carefully 
as not to be at all lumpy, i tablespoon melted butter, a little salt, 
and I cup sugar; beat them all together for 3 or 4 minutes, then 
pour over the peaches, set the dish in the oven, bake until the top 
is a rich brown. Serve with sugar and cream. 

FEACH COBBLER. 

Half fill a pudding-dish with whole peaches, pared but not 
stoned, sprinkle them thickly with sugar, add I cup water, cover with 
a short crust made like biscuit dough ; bake in a steady oven, and 
serve with beaten cream or with the juice from the peaches. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

A delicious prune pudding is made by stewing i pound prunes 
till they are soft, remove the stones and add sugar to your taste, 
and whites of 3 eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; make a puff paste 
for the bottom of the pudding dish; after beating the eggs and 
prunes together till they are thoroughly mixed, spread them on the 
crust ; bake for y^ hour, or until you are sure the crust is done. 

QUEEN PUDDING. 

One pint bread crumbs, not crumbs of stale bread unfit for the 
table, I quart milk, i cup sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of 4 
eggs, the grated rind of i lemon, and a piece of butter the size of 
an &%^\ bake until done, but not watery ; whip the whites of the eggs, 
and beat in i cup pulverized sugar, in which you have put the juice 
of the lemon; spread over the pudding a layer of jelly or raspberry 
jam 01 any sweetmeat you prefer; then pour over it the whites of 
the eggs; set it in the oven to brown slightly. Serve cold with 
cream. This is an excellent dessert for an elaborate dinner, as it 
may be made early in the morning and so be out of the way. 



DESSERTS. 205 



PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 



Line a deep and buttered pudding-dish with slices of sponge 
cake, slice some pineapple in very thin slices and put it into the 
dish, cover a layer of pineapple with a layer of cake, and so on 
until the dish is full; scatter sugar plentifully over the pineapple; 
the top layer of cake should be moistened with water and have 
sugar scattered over it. If you are the happy possessor of a 
pudding-dish with an earthen cover, put this over the pudding, 
otherwise cover it with a dinner-plate and bake slowly for i^ 
hours ; the cover or plate should be buttered. 

RICE PUDDING. 

One-half cup rice, i^A cups water, let cook very slowly; when 
rice is done, add i pint milk; let it come to a boil, then add the 
yolks of 3 eggs and i cup sugar; allow it to stand until it thickens; 
flavor with vanilla; remove from the fire; then beat the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth, and whip it gently into the pudding until 
thoroughly mixed. Set away until cool. 

RICE PUDDING, NO. 2. 

Add 2 heaping tablespoons washed rice, same quantity of sugar, 
]^ grated nutmeg, and ^ cup raisins to i quart new milk ; place 
it in a moderate oven and cook slowly for about 2 hours, stirring 
every 15 minutes for the first 15^ hours; the last ]A hour the oven 
should be sufficiently hot to form a thin, papery crust of a deep 
brown shade on the top. The pudding when done should be 
creamy, not solid. 

BOILED RICE WITH SWEET SAUCE. 

Wash the rice, throw into boiling water, and boil it with a pinch 
of salt in plenty of water. It should be done in about 20 minutes, 
and this will readily be ascertained by rubbing a grain between the 
fingers and thumb ; if it crumbles, it is properly cooked ; drain the 
rice in a colander, pour over it I cup cold water, put it back into 
the sauce-pan, let it stand a few minutes to dry, and serve. 



206 DESSERTS. 

Sweet Sauce for the Above. — Mix i tablespoon flour quite 
smooth in 4 tablespoons water, then stir into it yi pint boiling 
water, sugar or syrup to taste, stir over the fire until the sauce 
boils, when, if allowed, i ounce butter may be added, with i table- 
spoon lemon juice; when sweetened with sugar a little nutmeg, or 
ground cinnamon may be used, instead of lemon juice, if preferred. 
A tablespoon raspberry jam, or any fruit syrup, may be used to 
flavor the sauce, and is generally much liked. 

ROLY-POLY. 

Roll out about 2 pounds paste, cover it with any jam or marma- 
lade you like, roll it over and tie it loosely in a cloth, well tying 
each end ; boil I hour and serve, or cut it in slices and serve with 
sauce over it. 

RHUBARB MOLD. 

Take i quart red rhubarb and cut it in pieces, put it in a sauce- 
pan with a lid, and let it boil until quite a pulp ; melt ^ ounce 
gelatine in hot water, when dissolved put in with i pound pow- 
dered white sugar to the rhubarb and boil 15 minutes, add a few 
drops lemon juice, pour the rhubarb into a mold ; next day dip the 
mold into hot water, turn out into a glass dish, pour round it some 
custard made as follows: The yolks of 2 eggs, i tumbler milk, 4 
lumps sugar, simmer till thick : add a few drops essence of vanilla. 

RAISIN PUFFS. 

Two eggs, Yz cup butter, 3 teaspoons baking-powder, 2 table- 
spoons sugar, 2 cups flour, i of milk, I of raisins, chopped very fine; 
steam ^ hour in small cups, 

SILVER AND GOLD PUDDING. 

For this pudding there will be required 10 eggs, 2 quarts milk, 
yi teaspoon salt, ^ cup sugar, 2 teaspoons vanilla extract, and i 
tablespoon butter; butter a 3-pint mold, separate the white of the 
Qgg from the yolk, being careful not to have a particle of the yolk 
with the whites ; put ^ the sugar and i tablespoon milk with the 



DESSERTS. 207 

whites and beat the mixture with a spoon until it breaks readily 
when poured from a spoon, then add i quart milk, i teaspoon 
vanilla extract, and % teaspoon salt, and after blending thoroughly 
pour the mixture through a fine strainer into the mold ; set the 
mold in a pan and surround it with hot water enough to reach 
almost to the top of the mold ; place in a moderate oven for about 
3^ hour ; the water in the pan should never boil ; try the custard 
by running the blade of a knife into the center, and if the blade be 
clean when withdrawn the pudding may be removed from the oven, 
but if there be any milky substance clinging to it further cooking 
will be required ; at any rate, when the custard is cooked, set it 
where it will get exceedingly cold. While the pudding is cooking 
make a soft custard of the materials that remain, and also cool 
this. At serving-time turn the baked custard into a flat glass dish 
and pour the soft custard around it. This is a good pudding for 
Sunday, as it is all the better for being made a day before it is 
served. It seems extravagant to use so many eggs, nevertheless, 
at the usual rates the materials for the pudding cost less than 
half a dollar. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

One quart rich milk, 4 tablespoons sago, 4 eggs, i cup sugar, 
and flavoring ; soak sago over night in water, then beat yolks of 
eggs, sugar, and sago together, add milk and flavoring, set a basin 
in the steamer, pour in the mixture and steam i hour, beat whites 
with I tablespoon sugar to a stiff froth, spread over pudding and 
brown in oven 5 minutes ; stir while steaming or the sago will 
settle to the bottom. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Soak Yz box gelatine in a little cold water, then add i pint boil- 
ing water, the juice of i lemon and 2 cups sugar and let cool; beat 
the whites of 3 eggs to a stiff froth, add to the gelatine and beat 
together until quite light, put into a mold and place on ice to 
harden ; make a custard of the yolks of 3 eggs, let it become per- 
fectly cold, and when the jelly is turned from the mold pour the 
custard around it and serve. 



208 DESSERTS. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

One cup sugar, ^ cup butter, 3 eggs, I cup milk, 3 heaping tea- 
spoons baking powder, and 3 cups flour; steam i hour. 

STEAMED PUDDING, NO. 2. 

One cup milk, ^ cup butter, i cup molasses, i cup chopped 
raisins, 3 cups flour, 7^ teaspoon soda. Put into a covered pail and 
steam 3 hours. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cup molasses, i cup raisins, y^ cup chopped suet, i cup 
milk, I teaspoon soda ; mix thick with flour and steam or boil in a 
bag 3 hours ; serve wath sauce. 

STRAWBERRY SPONGE. 

One quart strawberries, ^ package gelatine, i^ cups water, i 
cup sugar, the juice of i lemon, the whites of 4 eggs ; soak the 
gelatine 2 hours in _^ cup water ; mash the strawberries and add ^ 
the sugar to them ; boil the remainder of the sugar and the cup 
water gently 20 minutes; rub the strawberries through a sieve; add 
the gelatine to the boiling syrup and take from the fire imme- 
diately ; then add the strawberries ; place in a pan o f ice-water and 
beat 5 minutes; add the whites of eggs and beat until the mixture 
begins to thicken ; pour into the molds and set away to harden ; 
serve with sugar and cream ; raspberry and blackberry sponges are 
made in the same way. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

Rub into i quart flour 5 ounces lard, a pinch of salt, and 3 table- 
spoons baking powder ; add gradually enough milk to make a soft 
dough ; divide into 4 parts ; roll i part out lightly ; cover a 
straight-sided Vienna cake-tin with it ; roll out another part and 
lay it on top of the first ; proceed in the same way with the other 
2 parts, using another baking-tin ; bake quickly, and when done, 
while hot, lift the upper part from each pan, butter the inner sur- 



DESSERTS. 209 

faces, and place between the 2 crusts a layer, i inch thick, of 
fresh berries, mashed and sweetened ; serve immediately with cream. 
A raspberry shortcake may be made with the same pastry. 

Custard to pour over Strazvbcrry Shortcake. — One cup sugar, i 
tablespoon corn starch, i egg, and i pint milk ; flavor and cook as 
custard. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE, NO. 2. 

Mix I saltspoon salt with i pound flour; chop in 3 tablespoons 
butter ; dissolve i teaspoon soda in a little hot water, and add with 

1 well-beaten &^^ to i large cup sour cream or rich " lobbered " milk, 
and I tablespoon sugar ; put all together, handling as little as possi- 
ble, and mix as soft as can be rolled ; roll lightly and quickly into 

2 sheets, and bake in round tins, well greased, laying i sheet 
on the other ; when done, separate, they will part where they were 
joined ; lay on the lower sheet a thick layer of strawberries, and 
dust with powdered sugar ; if desired, strawberries can be placed on 
top and sugared as before ; serve with sweet cream ; if the straw- 
berries are just heated a little and crushed lightly with a spoon and 
then put between the crusts, it is much improved. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak and boil i cup tapioca, sweeten and flavor with the juice 
and grated rind of i lemon; add a pinch of salt, and turn into a 
mold ; when cold turn out and pour over it a cold, soft custard, 
flavored with vanilla. 

PEACH TAPIOCA. 

Soak some tapioca over night, and in the morning boil until it 
is perfectly clear ; adding more water from time to time as needed ; 
slice 5 nice peaches with a silver knife and sprinkle liberally with 
sugar; when you take the tapioca from the stove, stir the peaches 
into it. Eat cold, with sugar and cream. Tapioca and sago make 
good cold desserts, combined with berries or fruit. Oranges cut up 
small and stirred into i cup tapioca that has boiled clear, and been 
sweetened, are an attractive dish. Served with sugar and cream, 
raspberries, strawberries and cherries make a variety of the same dish. 

14 



210 DESSERTS. 

CREAM TAPIOCA PUDDING. 
Soak 3 tablespoons tapioca in warm water 2 hours, then stir it 
into I quart boiling milk, let it boil 15 minutes; beat together the 
yolks of 4 eggs and i cup sugar, stir them into the pudding, and 
flavor with lemon or vanilla extract ; pour all into a baking-dish ; 
beat the whites of the eggs with 3 tablespoons sugar to a stiff 
froth, put this over the pudding, and bake 5 minutes. 

TRANSPARENT PUDDING. 

One-half pound butter, i pound sugar, 6 eggs, whites and yolks 
separately, juice of i lemon, grated rind of 2, i nutmeg, y^ glass 
brandy ; cream the butter and sugar, beat in the yolks, the lemon, 
spice and brandy, stirring in the whites at the last ; bake the pie- 
crust, open. You may, if you wish to have these very nice, beat 
up the whites of but 4 eggs in the mixture and whip the whites of 
4 more into a meringue, with 4 tablespoons sugar and a little 
lemon juice to spread over the top of each pie. Eat cold. They 
are very nice baked in patty-pans. 

TIP-TOP PUDDING. 

One pint bread crumbs, i quart milk, i cup sugar, yolks of 4 
eggs, the grated rind of i lemon ; bake ; when done spread straw- 
berries over the top (if not in season use preserved raspberries); 
beat up the whites of the eggs, i cup sugar, and the juice of the 
lemon and spread over the top; put in the oven and brown. Serve 
with sweetened cream. Use ^ this for 3 or 4 persons. 

VERMICELLI PUDDING. 

Parboil 12 ounces vermicelli, drain it in a sieve and put into a 
stew-pan with I quart cream, 4 ounces butter, ^ pound sugar, the 
juice and grated rind of 2 oranges, the grated rind of i lemon, and 
the juice of ^ of one, and a little salt ; cover and let it simmer 
slowly until the cream is nearly absorbed ; turn out to cool on a 
dish ; then add the yolks of 6 eggs, and the whites beaten into a stiff 
froth; mix thoroughly yet lightly; put it into a well-buttered 
mold, and bake ij^ hours in a moderate oven; when done turn it 
on a dish and serve with sauce. 



DESSERTS. 211 



VEGETABLE PUDDING. 



Half pound carrots, ^ pound cold mashed potatoes, the same 
of flour, suet, sugar, 4 ounces candied lemon peel, ^ pound cur- 
rants ; boil slowly for 2 hours. 

WHITE PUDDING. 

Three cups milk, whites of 6 eggs, whipped stiff, i cup powdered 
sugar, I tablespoon melted butter, i tablespoon rose-water, 2 heaping 
cups prepared flour ; whip the sugar into the stiffened whites ; add 
butter and rose-water; then the flour stirred in very lightly; bake 
in buttered mold in a rather quick oven. Eat with sweet sauce. 

YANKEE PUDDING. 

One cup molasses, i cup sour milk or buttermilk, y^ cup sugar ; 
2 teaspoons butter, 2 teaspoons saleratus, i teaspoon ginger, same 
of cinnamon, 5 of flour, i o.^^ ; bake in a shallow pan. 

Sauce. — One pint milk or cream, ^ cup sugar, white of i &^^^ 
beaten lightly, i teaspoon corn-starch; flavor with nutmeg; boil i 
minute. 



PUDDING SAUCES. 



APRICOT SAUCE. 

One cup canned apricots, i of sugar, i of milk, i tablespoon 
corn-starch, y^. cup water; put the milk in the double boiler; mix 
the corn-starch with a few spoons cold milk, and stir into the boil- 
ing milk; cook 10 minutes; boil the sugar and water together for 20 
minutes; rub the apricots through a sieve, and stir it into the syrup; 
beat well, and then beat in the boiled milk and corn-starch ; place 
the saucepan in a dish of cold water and stir for about 8 minutes; 
set away to cool • if you have cream use it instead of the milk ; all 
kinds of fruit can be used in pudding sauces by following this rule : 
If the fruit is preserved, use less sugar ; and if very acid, use more. 



212 DESSERTS. 



ARROWROOT SAUCE. 



Mix I tablespoon arrowroot smoothly with a little cold water ; 
add y^ pint water, i glass wine, the juice of i lemon, and sugar and 
flavoring; stir the sauce over the fire till it boils ; this sauce may be 
varied by omitting the wine, and using milk with the arrowroot ; 
the juice of almost any fruit, too, may be boiled wth the arrowroot. 

CARAMEL SAUCE. 

Put I cup sugar in a small frying pan and stir on the fire until a 
dark brown, if you like a strong caramel flavor, or till a light brown, 
if you like a delicate flavor; add I cup boiling water and simm.er 15 
minutes; set away to cool. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

One cup powdered sugar, i egg, 2 cups whipped cream ; beat 
the white of the egg to a stifT froth ; add the yolk and sugar, and 
beat well ; flavor with vanilla, lemon, or wine, and add the cream 
last of all; this sauce is excellent for a light pudding. 

CREAM SAUCE, NO. 2. 

Stir together i tumbler rich, thick cream, and i tumbler 
lightly full of powdered white sugar ; grate over it nutmeg; serve 
cold with fruit tarts. 

CREAMY SAUCE. 

Half cup butter, i cup powdered sugar, ^ cup cream or milk, 
4 tablespoons wine, or i teaspoon vanilla or lemon extract ; if lemon 
or vanilla is used, add 4 tablespoons cream ; beat the butter to a 
cream ; add the sugar gradually, beating all the while ; when light 
and creamy, gradually add the wine, and then the cream, a little at a 
time ; when all is beaten smooth, place the bowl in a basin of hot 
water and stir until the sauce is smooth and creamy, no longer ; it 
will take only a few minutes ; this is a delicious sauce, and if well 
beaten, and not kept in the hot water long enough to melt the 
sugar, it will be white and foamy all through. 



DESSERTS. 213 

CHEAP SAUCE. 

To make a bowlful, take a piece of butter, size of a small egg, 
and beat it with ^ cup powdered sugar until it is a light cream ; 
put I coffeecup water in a small tin saucepan, and add i 
teaspoon flour rubbed in a little cold water ; cook till it is like a 
thin starch ; pour it slowly into the creamed butter ; if the beating 
be not stopped, the whole sauce will rise and be foamy as sea-froth ; 
flavor to liking. 

FOAMING SAUCE. 

One cup butter, 2 of powdered sugar, the whites of 2 eggs, 5 
tablespoons wine or 3 of brandy, J/j^ teacup boiling water; beat the 
butter to a cream, and gradually beat the sugar into it ; add the 
whites of the eggs, unbeaten, one at a time, and then the brandy or 
wine ; when all is a light, smooth mass, add the water, beating in a 
little at a time ; place the bowl in a basin of hot water and stir until 
smooth and frothy, which will be about 2 minutes. This sauce is 
for rich puddings. 

GERMAN SAUCE. 

The yolks of 5 and whites of 3 eggs; I cup powdered sugar, I 
pint cream, and any flavor you choose ; beat together the yolks of 
the eggs and the sugar, and add the cream ; put this mixture in the 
double boiler (having first beaten the whites to a stiff froth), and 
stir until it begins to thicken; then add the whites and seasoning; 
beat thoroughly and serve. 

GERMAN CUSTARD SAUCE. 

Yolks of 4 eggs, 2 ounces powdered sugar, grated rind of i 
lemon, I glass sherry, and a little salt ; beat it sharply over a slow 
fire, until it assumes the appearance of a light, frothy custard. It 
is a good sauce. 

HARD SAUCE. 

One large cup powdered sugar whipped to a cream with 2 
tablespoons butter, i of currant jelly, beaten in with as much cin- 



214 DESSERTS. 

namon as will lie on a half-dime ; when mixed heap on a saucer or 
glass dish, and set in a cold place to harden. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

One cup sugar, y^ cup water, the rind and juice of 2 lemons, 
the yolks of 3 eggs; boil together the sugar, water, lemon-juice, 
and grated rind for 20 minutes; beat the yolks of the eggs; put 
the basin containing the boiling syrup in another of boiling water; 
stir the yolks of the eggs into this, and beat rapidly for 3 minutes; 
take up the sauce-pan and continue the beating for 5 minutes; 
then serve. Orange sauce may be made in the same way by sub- 
stituting oranges for lemons. 

MOLASSES SAUCE. 

One cup molasses, ^ cup water, i tablespoon butter, a little 
cinnamon or nutmeg (about 3^ teaspoon), ^ teaspoon salt, 3 table- 
spoons vinegar ; boil all together for 20 minutes. The juice of a 
lemon can be used instead of vinegar. This sauce is nice for apple 
or rice puddings. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Two eggs beaten separately, i cup sugar, i tablespoon butter; 
beat yolks and sugar together; to ^ cup boiling milk add the 
butter, and dissolve; add this to the yolks and sugar; beat white 
in ; flavor. 

PUDDING SAUCE, NO. 2. 

A sauce, nice for any pudding, may be made by rubbing i cup 
sugar and Y^ cup butter to a cream; slowly add i^ teacups boiling 
water and when well mixed, the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs; scald 
only, and then flavor with vanilla, bitter almond, or anything liked. 

PUDDING SAUCE, NO. 3. 

Two eggs, 2 cups sugar and i cup butter, i glass wine ; beat all 
well together till creamy, and set over the fire a few minutes to 
scald through once, or set it in the tea-kettle top to heat through. 



DESSERTS. 215 



PLAIN PUDDING SAUCE. 



One and one-half cups hot water, 2 tablespoons flour, i heaping 
tablespoon melted butter ; cook as for drawn butter ; then add i 
cup brown sugar ; stir until the sugar is melted ; add 2 teaspoons 
lemon-juice and a little nutmeg. 



STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 



Half cup butter, i^ cups sugar, and i pint strawberries, mashed 
till juicy; canned berries maybe substituted for fresh ones; beat 
the butter and sugar to a cream ; then stir in the berries and the 
beaten white of i egg. 



TRANSPARENT SAUCE. 

Mix together i cup sugar and i heaping tablespoon corn-starch ; 
add 2 small slices lemon, and pour on slowly i pint boiling water, 
stirring ; gradually add i tablespoon butter, and boil until thick. 

WHIPPED CREAM SAUCE. 

One cup cream, the whites of 3 eggs, and 3 tablespoons 
powdered sugar; the cream should be quite ice-cold when ready to 
whip; after whipping return to the refrigerator or to a cold place, 
while preparing the whites of the eggs, which beat to a stiff foam ; 
add the sugar, then the whipped cream, beating lightly with a 
silver fork ; use wine or any extract for flavoring. This sauce is 
very nice to serve in glasses, with cake, or served with fruit pud- 
ding, or any of the puddings put in large or cup molds. For the 
large mold, put the sauce around it, but for the small molds, pile 
the sauce high in the center, with the pudding around it. 



CHAPTKR VIII. 



DRINKS. 



COFFEE. 



It has not been a common occurrence incur experience to have 
set before us a really good cup of coffee. This fact convinces us 
that there is still much need of information on this subject. In a 
nutshell the following is our advice : Have a good clean coffee- 
pot, and use only the best coffee obtainable. Poor, cheap coffee 
will never make a palatable drink. One pound Java and i pound 
Mocha mixed when whole in the berry will give the best results. 
When preparing your morning meal use i tablespoon ground 
coffee for each member of the family, allowing i extra for the 
pot, as the old saying runs. Cover with as many cups of boiling 
water as there are people to drink it, and let it come to a quick 
boil of 2 or 3 minutes ; then set back on the stove and throw 
in about j^ pint cold cream, and let it stand a few minutes before 
serving. The cream will settle the coffee and you will enjoy your 
morning meal the better for using a pure article. 

If you have not the cream it may be settled by beating up the 
dry coffee in part of an egg, using the white one morning and the 
yolk the next, or by adding a little cold water a few minutes before 
the coffee is served. 

COFFEE SUBSTITUTES. 

French cooks, who are celebrated for making good coffee, mix 
3 or 4 different kinds, and recommend as a good proportion, to add 
to I pound Jave about 4 ounces Mocha and 4 ounces of one or two 
other kinds. It is said that from 3 parts Rio, with 2 parts Old 
Government Java, a coffee can be made quite as good, if not 
superior to that made of Java alone. 

Wheat coffee, made of a mixture of 8 quarts wheat to i pound 

216 




AT THE FOUNTAIN. 



DRINKS. 217 

real coffee, is said to afford a beverage quite as agreeable as the 
unadulterated Rio, besides being much more wholesome. It is 
probably known to many that a very large per cent of the ground 
coffee sold at the stores is common field pease, roasted and ground 
with genuine coffee. There are hundreds of thousands of bushels 
of pease annually used for that purpose. Those who are in the 
habit of purchasing ground coffee can do better to buy their own 
pease, burn and grind them, and mix to suit themselves. 

NOVEL MODE OF MAKING COFFEE. 

Put 2 ounces ground coffee into a stewpan, which set upon the 
fire, stirring the powder around with a spoon until quite hot, when 
pour over i pint boiling water ; cover over closely for 5 minutes, 
when strain it through a cloth, rinse out the stewpan, pour the 
coffee, which will be quite clear, back into it, place it on the fire, 
and when near boiling, serve with hot milk. 

COFFEE WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 

For 6 cups coffee of fair size, take i cup sweet cream whipped 
light with a little sugar; put into each cup the desired amount of 
sugar and about i tablespoon boiling milk; pour the coffee over 
these and lay upon the surface of the hot liquid a large spoon of 
the frothed cream, giving a gentle stir to each cup before serving. 
This is known to some as meringued coffee, and is an elegant French 
preparation of the popular drink. Chocolate served in this way is 
delicious. 

COFFEE FOR ONE HUNDRED. 

Take 5 pounds roasted coffee, grind and mix with 6 eggs ; make 
small muslin sacks, and in each place i pint coffee, leaving room 
for it to swell; put 5 gallons boiling water in a large coffee urn or 
boiler having a faucet at the bottom; put in part of the sacks and 
boil 2 hours; 5 or 10 minutes before serving raise the lid and add i 
or 2 more sacks, and if you continue serving several times add 
fresh sacks at regular intervals, taking out from time to time those 
first put in and filling up with boiling water as needed. In this 



2l8 DRINKS. 

way the full strength of the coffee is secured and the fresh supplies 
impart that delicious flavor consequent on a few moments' boiling. 
To make coffee for 20 persons, use i^ pints ground coffee and 
I gallon water. 

TEA. 

We find the following eminently sensible lines in Hoiisehold Hints: 

"One of the most surprising things one constantly meets is to 
find that the people who have the same duties to perform, day 
after day, or year after year, do not improve in their method, or 
even once blunder into the right way of doing them. Nothing is 
more easily made than good tea, and yet how seldom, away from 
home, does one enjoy delicately fragrant tea, which Hawthorne 
calls * an angel's gift,' and which Miss Mitford said she could be 
awake all night drinking. The first thing needed is a clean tea-pot ; 
it is useless to try to make good tea in a rusty pot, or one in which 
the leaves have been allowed to remain all night. The water should 
be boiling, but the tea itself should never boil. I wish these words 
could be painted on the wall of every hotel and restaurant kitchen 
in the United States. After the boiling water has been poured 
over the tea, set the tea-pot on an extra griddle at the back of the 
stove. All that is good in the tea will be gradually extracted from 
it ; then when brought to the table one may well echo De Quincey's 
wish for an 'eternal tea-pot,' though not inclined to follow his 
example of drinking it from 8 o'clock in the evening until 4 o'clock 
in the morning. 

" The most satisfactory steeper I ever used is an old-fashioned 
brown earthen tea-pot. This may be kept perfectly clean with 
almost no trouble. Whatever may be said of the hurtfulness of 
tea, when immoderately used, a cup of the afternoon tea so 
frequently mentioned in novels and essays is an unpurchasable 
luxury. Hamerton says in ' The Intellectual Life: ' '.If tea is a safe 
stimulant it is certainly an agreeable one; there seems to be no 
valid reason why brain-workers should refuse themselves this 
solace.' " 

Put tea and coffee away in air-tight receptacles as soon as they 



DRINKS. 2lg 

are brought to the house. They lose much of their flavor by- 
standing uncovered. 

ICED TEA. 

The tea should be made in the morning, very strong, and not 
allowed to steep long. Keep in the ice-box till the meal is ready 
and then put in a small quantity of cracked ice. Very few under- 
stand the art of making iced tea, but pour the scalding hot tea on 
a goblet of ice lumped in, and as the ice melts the tea is weak, 
insipid, and a libel on its name. Iced coffee is very nice made in 
the same way. Too much ice is detrimental to health, and often 
causes gastric fever; so beware of it when in a heated state, or do 
not drink of it in large quantities. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Very few people make good chocolate. It is a waste of time to 
grate it, and it hurts the taste. It is not necessary even to break 
it. Put it in a bowl, set on the back of the range or over the tea- 
kettle, with ^ cup boiling water added, and let it melt ; then stir 
till a smooth paste; have equal quantities of milk and water in an 
open sauce-pan ; when boiling hard, add gradually the paste, and 
boil 5 minutes, stirring all the time ; sweeten while boiling. Serve 
as soon as possible, with i spoon whipped cream on the top of each 
cupful. The quantity to be used depends on the strength wanted. 
Generally speaking, i ounce of chocolate may be used for i pint 
milk and water. 

TO MAKE COCOA. 

Put I gill broken cocoa in a pot with 2 quarts water, and boil 
gently 3 hours. There should be i quart of liquid in the pot when 
done. If the boiling has been so rapid that there is not this 
quantity, add more water and let it boil once again. Many people 
prefer yi broken cocoa and ^ shells. If the stomach is delicate, 
this is better than all cocoa. Sugar and milk are used, as with 
coffee. 



220 DRINKS. 

COCOA NIBS. 

Cocoa nibs, or shells, are the coverings of the cocoa kernel. 
They should be soaked in water for 12 hours, then boiled in the 
same water till it is reduced to ^ the quantity. When cool, the 
oily matter should be taken from the top, as it would be likely to 
disagree with an invalid. It is then served like chocolate. Time to 
boil, 5 hours. One-quarter pound nibs should be boiled with 3 
quarts water. 

EROMA. 

Put even quantities of milk and water to boil; for every cup 
allow I even tablespoon broma and ^ teaspoon sugar; moisten the 
broma and sugar with just as little of the warm milk and water as 
is required to dissolve it, and pour into the boiling liquid, stirring 
until it recommences to boil, when it is ready for the table. 

COTTAGE BEER. 
Take i peck good wheat bran and put it into 10 gallons water 
with 3 handfuls good hops, and boil the whole together until the 
bran and hops sink to the bottom. Then strain it through a hair 
sieve or a thin cloth into a cooler, and when it is about lukewarm 
add 2 quarts molasses. As soon as the molasses is melted, pour 
the whole into a lo-gallon cask, with 2 tablespoons yeast. When 
the fermentation has subsided, bung up the cask, and in 4 days it 
will be fit to use. 

GINGER BEER. 

Loaf sugar, 2]^ lbs.; cream of tartar, i^ ozs.; ginger root, i]4 
ozs.; 2 lemons ; fresh brewer's yeast, 2 tablespoons ; water, 3 gals. 
Bruise the ginger, and put into a large earthenware pan, with the 
sugar and cream of tartar; peel the lemons, squeeze out the juice, 
strain it, and add, with the peel, to the other ingredients ; then 
pour over the water boiling hot. When it has stood until it is only 
just warm, add the yeast, stir the contents of the pan, cover with a 
cloth, and let it remain near the fire for 12 hours. Then skim off 
the yeast and pour the liquor off into another vessel, taking care 
not to shake it, so as to leave the sediment ; bottle it immediately, 
cork it tightly ; in 3 or 4 days it will be fit for use. 



DRINKS. 221 



GINGER DRINK. 



Ginger as a rule agrees well with most stomachs, especially in 
warm weather. Dissolve 2^ pounds sugar in 2 gallons soft water, 
then add the well-beaten whites of 3 eggs and 2 ounces ground 
Jamaica ginger. It is well to moisten the ginger before adding it 
to the whole amount of water. Bring slowly to a boil, skim and 
stand aside to cool. When cold add the juice of i large lemon and 
54^ of a yeast cake dissolved. Fill it into bottles, cork tightly and 
tie them down. Stand the bottles in a cool place for 10 days and 
they are ready for use. 

SPRUCE BEER. 

Take 4 ounces hops, boil ^ hour in i gallon water ; strain it ; 
add 16 gallons warm water, 2 gallons molasses, 8 ounces essence 
spruce dissolved in i quart water; put it in a clean cask, shake it 
well together, add }^ pint yeast, let it stand and work i week ; if 
warm weather, less time will do. When drawn off, add i teaspoon 
molasses to each bottle. 

BUTTERMILK. 
In warm summer weather many persons feel an irresistible crav- 
ing for something sour, and often gratify this desire by a free 
indulgence in pickles, or vegetables made acid with vinegar. This 
demand for acids indicates a deficiency in the acid secretions of the 
stomach, and the demand for an artificial supply is a natural one. 
Vinegar is not the best substitute. Lac acid is one of the chief 
agents that give acidity to the gastric juice of the stomach in 
health. This is the acid of sour milk, and therefore, one of the 
best summer diet drinks that we can use is buttermilk. It satisfies 
the craving for acids by giving to the stomach a natural supply and 
at the same time furnishing in its cheesy matter a good supply of 
wholesome nutrition. A man will endure fatigue in hot weather 
better on buttermilk than on any other diet drink he can use. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 
Add I pound white sugar to 3 pounds ripe blackberries; let it 
stand 12 hours, then press out the juice, straining it ; add }4, brandy 



222 DRINKS. 

or rum; put i teaspoon powdered allspice to each quart of cor- 
dial. It is not fit to use at once. 

CREAM OF TARTAR DRINK. 

Two teacpoons cream of tartar, the grated rind of i lemon, ^ 
cup loaf sugar, and I pint boiling water. This is a good summer 
drink for invalids, and is cleansing to the blood. 

FRUIT CUP. 

Pare the yellow rind very thinly from 12 lemons; squeeze the 
juice over it in an earthen bowl, and let it stand over night, if 
possible ; pare and slice thinly a very ripe pine-apple, and let it lay 
over night in 3^ pound powdered sugar; crush i quart berries, and 
let them lay over night in ^ pound powdered sugar. If all these 
ingredients cannot be prepared the day before they are used, they 
must be done very early in the morning, because the juices of the 
fruit need to be incorporated with the sugar at least 12 hours 
before the beverage is used ; after all the ingredients have been 
properly prepared, as above, strain off the juice, carefully pressing 
all of it out of the fruit; mix it with 2 pounds powdered sugar and 
3 quarts ice-water, and stir it until all the sugar is dissolved; then 
strain it again through a muslin or bolting-cloth sieve, and put it on 
the ice or in a very cool place until it is wanted for use. 

JELLY DRINKS. 

A little jelly or fruit-syrup dissolved in a goblet of water with a 
little sugar, is a refreshing drink. Lime-juice squeezed into lemon- 
ade gives it a tart but pleasing flavor. A little orange-juice is also 
an improvement in nearly all summer drinks. 

JELLY LEMONADE. 

Pare the yellow rind thinly from 2 oranges and 6 lemons and 
steep it 4 hours in i quart hot water; boil impounds loaf sugar 
in 3 pints water, skimming it until it is clear; pour these 2 mix- 
tures together; add to them the juice of 6 oranges and 12 lemons, 



DRINKS. 223 

mix and strain through a jelly-bag until clear; keep cool until 
wanted for use. If the beverage is to be kept several days, it 
should be put into clean glass bottles and corked tightly. If for a 
small party, half of the quantity will be sufficient. 

LEMONADE. 

Take thin-skinned lemons; roll them on the table until very 
soft ; slice very thin with a sharp knife into a large pitcher, aver- 
aging I lemon to a person, thus allowing them 2 glasses apiece; 
put in the pitcher, with the sliced lemon, i cup white sugar to 5 
lemons, or more if you want it sweeter, and pound all well together 
with a potato-masher; put in a lump of ice; let it stand a few 
minutes, and fill the pitcher with ice-water. This makes lemonade 
that is lemonade, and the peel in the pitcher is delicious. 

LEMONADE POWDER. 

Rub together 8 drachms tartaric acid, 14 ounces sugar, with 24 
drops oil of lemon. Lemonade prepared with this powder is 
refreshing, cooling and w^holesome. 

MEAD. 

Three pounds brown sugar, i pint molasses, % pound tartaric 
acid; mix; pour over them 2 quarts boiling water; stir till dis- 
solved ; when cold add ]4: ounce essence sassafras, and bottle ; when 
you wish to drink it, put 3 tablespoons of it in a tumbler, fill yi 
full with ice-water, add a little more than ^ teaspoon soda. An 
excellent summer beverage. 

ORANGE SYRUP. 

This is so easily made and so convenient to have on hand for 
various uses that it is strange more house-keepers do not make it, 
especially in the season when oranges are plentiful and cheap. 
Ripe and thin-skinned fruit is best for the purpose. Squeeze the 
juice through a sieve, and to each pint add i^ pounds sugar, with 
a little of the grated orange peel and the juice of i lemon; boil the 
syrup for 15 minutes, and skim as long as any scum rises ; if it does 



224 DRINKS. 

not look clear when taken off, strain it ; next beetle £ind seal up 
tight, and it will keep for a long time. Two tablespoons of the 
syrup, mixed with % pound creamed butter, makes a nice sauce 
for a pudding, or a pleasant flavor for custards and ices. Mixed 
with cold water and ice, it makes a delicious drink, and can be 
safely given to invalids. 

PINE-APPLE DRINK. 

Here is a way of using the skin of pine-apples which makes a 
pleasant drink in warm weather. Cut it, with the core, into small 
pieces, and let it stand in cold water in a stone jar 24 hours. The 
rule is, i pint water to i small pine-apple; strain, sweeten to taste, 
and pour in large bottles. It will be ready to use in 3 days. 

STRAWBERRY SYRUP. 

Take 4 pounds best sugar and i quart filtered strawberry juice ; 
put them together in the bain-marie ; stir until thoroughly dis- 
solved, take off the skum and bottle ; the flavor of this syrup may 
be heightened by the addition of i gill orange-juice to the above 
quantity. 

CHERRY SHRUB. 

Gather ripe. Morello or red sour cherries; pick them from the 
stalk, and put them in an earthen pot, which must be set in an iron 
pot of water ; make the water boil, but take care that none of it 
gets into the cherries; when the juice is extracted, pour it into a 
bag made of tolerable thick cloth, which will permit the juice, not 
the pulp, of the cherry to pass through; put i pound sugar to i 
pint juice, and, when it becomes perfectly clear bottle; put ^ gill 
spirit into each bottle before you pour in the juice ; cover the corks 
with rosin ; cherry shrub will keep all summer in a diy, cool place, 
and is delicious mixed with water. 

BERRY SHERBET. 

Crush ! pound berries, add them to i quart -.vater, i lemon 
sliced, and i teaspoon orange flavor, if you have it. Let these 



DRINKS. 225 

ingredients stand in an earthen bowl for 3 hours ; then strain, 
squeezing all the juice out of the fruit. Dissolve i pound powdered 
sugar in it, strain again, and put on the ice until ready to serve. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Ten quarts fruit in 2 quarts cider vinegar ; let them stand a few 
days; squeeze and strain; to each pint of juice add i pound sugar 
and boil 15 minutes; when cold, bottle and seal; fruit remaining 
after meals may be added until ready to strain. 

UNFERMENTED WINES. 

The juice of grapes, blackberries, raspberries, etc., pressed out 
without mashing the seeds, adding i pint water, and ^ lb. sugar 
for each pint of the juice ; then boil a few minutes, skimming if any 
sediment or scum rises, and bottling while hot, corking tightly, cut- 
ting off the corks, and dipping the tops into wax, and keeping in a 
dry, cool place, gives a wine that no one would object to, if iced 
when drank. It is nourishing, satisfying to the thirst, and not 
intoxicating, because there has been no fermentation. Made of 
grapes, this wine is in every way suitable for communion. 



15 



CtiAPTPKR IX. 



EGGS AND OMELETTES. 



TO BOIL EGGS. 

To boil an egg just right seems to be very simple, yet where 
there is a member of the family who is particular in having his egg 
boiled in just such a manner, it isn't quite as easy to do as it seems. 
It is anything but pleasant for a person to ask for a soft-boiled egg 
and receive one just warmed through, or a hard-boiled one and get 
it so that the yolk will run.. Three minutes is the usual time 
allowed for a medium-boiled egg, 5 minutes for a hard-boiled one, 
and i^ or 2 minutes for a soft-boiled one. Always count from the 
time the egg commences to boil. 

TO BAKE EGGS. 

Butter a clean, smooth sauce-pan, break as many eggs as will be 
needed into a saucer, one by one; if found good, slip it into the 
dish ; no broken yolk allowed, nor must they crowd so as to risk 
breaking the yolk after being put in ; put a small piece of butter on 
each, and sprinkle with pepper and salt ; set into a well-heated oven, 
and bake till the whites are set. If the oven is rightly heated, it 
will take but a few minutes, and is far more delicate than fried eggs. 

TO FRY EGGS. 

Fried eggs, when done properly, are very inviting, but when 
brought to the table with the yolks broken running all over the 
dish, they arc anything but attractive. To fry eggs well is a very 
easy matter, if properly understood. Have on the front part of the 
stove a frying-pan one-third full of lard at the least ; break each egg 
separately into a saucer, being careful not to break the yolk ; when 
the lard is very hot remove to back of stove and let each egg slide 
carefully into it; when all are in that can be conveniently cooked in 

226 



EGGS AND OMELETTES. 22/ 

it, leavang room for the lard to boil well around each, put on the 
front of stove and fry. While cooking, with a long-handled spoon 
lift now and then the boiling lard, a spoonful at a time, and turn it 
over the top of each yolk; when the whole egg is white it can be 
taken out, for it is done. To be sure, if they are liked brown, they 
may be cooked longer, but where a rare egg is desired they should be 
removed from the fat when the whole top is white. When wished 
turned over it can be done very easily by turning the egg when the 
under side is brown. Fried eggs should be lifted from the pan with 
a skimmer and allowed to drain a short time ere being served. Do 
not let them stand but a very short time ere serving, for eggs grow 
tough and hard if not served almost immediately after being taken 
from the fire. 

TO POACH EGGS. 

Have the water well salted, and do not let it boil hard ; break 
the eggs separately into a saucer, and slip gently into the water; 
when nicely done, remove with a skimmer, trim neatly, and lay each 
egg upon a small thin square of buttered toast, then sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Some persons prefer them poached, rather than 
fried, with ham, in which case substitute the ham for toast. 

PICKLED EGGS. 

Sixteen eggs, i quart vinegar, j4 ounce black pepper, j4 ounce 
Jamaica pepper, j4 ounce ginger; boil the eggs 12 minutes; dip in 
cold water and take off the shell; put the vinegar, with the pepper 
and ginger, into a stew-pan aud simmer 10 minutes; place the eggs 
in a jar, pour over the seasoned vinegar boiling hot, and when cold 
tie them down with a bladder to exclude the air; ready for use in 
I month. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Heat the spider and put in a little butter; have the eggs broken 
into a dish, salt and pepper them; add a small piece of butter; beat 
up just enough to break the eggs, then pour into the buttered 
spider; scrape them up from the bottom with a thin knife, to pre- 
vent their cooking fast ; do not cook too dry. 



228 EGGS AND OMELETTES. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

Boil the eggs hard, remove the shells, and then cut in two either 
way, as preferred ; remove the yolks and mix with them pepper, 
salt, and a little dry mustard — some like cold chicken, ham, or 
tongue chopped very fine — and then stuff the cavities, smooth 
them, and put the halves together. For picnics they can simply be 
wrapped in tissue paper to keep them together. If for home use, 
they can be egged, and bread-crumbed, and browned in boiling 
lard ; drain and garnish with parsley. 

SCOTCH EGGS. 

One cup cooked lean ham, chopped very fine, }4, cup stale bread 
crumbs, y^ cup milk, ^ teaspoon mixed mustard, cayenne enough 
to cover a silver 5-cent piece, i raw Qgg and 6 hard-boiled ; cook the 
bread and milk together until a smooth paste; add to the ham, and 
add the seasoning and raw egg; mix thoroughly; break the shells 
from the hard-boiled eggs, and cover with this mixture ; put in a 
frying-basket, and plunge into boiling fat for 2 minutes. These are 
nice for lunch, tea, or picnics. 

SCALLOPED EGGS. 

Five hard-boiled eggs, )^ cup gravy or drawn butter, i cup 
bread crumbs, ^ cup minced cold meat — the rabbit left from 
yesterday, or better still, cold ham or tongue; if none of these are 
forthcoming, buy one of the small tins of devilled meats that come 
at a low cost, and use that — butter the bottom of a pie-plate or 
shallow pudding-dish and cover with a layer of the meat ; over this 
spread the hard-boiled eggs, sliced, and pour in the gravy; sprinkle 
the bread crumbs over all, pepper and salt and dot with bits of 
butter; bake covered 10 minutes in a moderate oven, and brown. 

BREADED EGGS. 

Boil hard and cut in round, thick slices; pepper and salt and dip 
each in beaten raw egg, then in fine bread crumbs or powdered 
cracker crumbs and fry in butter, hissing hot ; drain off every drop 
of grease, and serve hot. 



EGGS AND OMELETTES. 229 

EGG BASKETS. 

Boil quite hard as many eggs as will be needed. Put into cold 
water till cold, then cut neatly into halves with a thin, sharp knife, 
remove the yolk and rub to a paste with some melted butter, adding 
pepper and salt ; cover up this paste and set aside till the filling is 
ready ; take cold roast duck, chicken, or turkey which may be on 
hand, chop fine and pound smooth, and while pounding mix in the 
paste prepared from the yolks ; as you pound moisten with melted 
butter and some gravy which may have been left over from the 
fowls; set this paste when done over hot water till well heated; 
cut off a small slice from the end of the empty halves of the whites 
so they will stand firm, then fill them with this paste ; place them 
close together on a flat, round dish, and pour over the rest of the 
gravy, if any remains, or make a little fresh ; a few spoons cream or 
rich milk improves this dressing. 

EGGS AND CHEESE. 

Into a buttered baking-dish put on layers each of bread crumbs, 
grated cream cheese and hard-boiled eggs sliced. Finish the top 
with a layer of bread crumbs ; break a few eggs into some little 
liollows, and bake 5 minutes in a hot oven, 

EGGS ON FOAM. 

Beat the whites of eggs stiff, with a little salt, spread out on a 
flat earthen baking-dish, make little hollows, and lay the yolks into 
them. Bake 3 minutes in a quick oven. 

EGGS SUR LE PLAT. 

Little stone china dishes come expressly for this mode of serv- 
ing eggs ; heat and butter the dish, and break into it 2 eggs, being 
careful not to break the yolks ; sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper, 
and drop on them ^ teaspoon butter, broken in small pieces ; place 
in a moderately hot oven until the white is set, which will be in 
about 5 minutes ; there should be a dish for each person ; the flavor 
can be changed by sprinkling a little finely-chopped ham or parsley 
on the plate before putting in the eggs. 



230 



EGGS AND OMELETTES. 




EGGS A LA BONNE FEMME. 

Take 6 large eggs, boil them lo minutes ; when cool, remove 
the shells carefully ; divide them equally in halves, take out the 

yolks and cut off from each the 
pointed tip of the white, that 
they may stand flatly ; make 
^a tiny dice of some cold chicken, 
ham, boiled beet root, and the 
yolks; fill the hollows with these 
up to the brim, and pile the 
dice high in the center — two of ham and chicken, 2 of boiled beet 
root, and 2 with the hard yolks ; arrange some neatly cut lettuce on 
a dish and place the eggs amongst it. 

OMELETTE. 

Fix'st have fresh eggs, not omelette eggs (in restaurants all eggs 
that will not in any way do to boil, are put aside for omelettes), 
break the eggs in a bowl and to every egg add i tablespoon milk 
and whip the whole as thoroughly as you would for sponge cake ; 
the omelette pan must be so hot that butter will melt almost brown 
in it but not quite ; then run the whipped egg and milk into the 
pan and put it directly over the fire ; take a thin-bladed knife and 
run it carefully under the bottom of the omelette so as to let that 
which is cooked get above. If the fire is right the whole mass will 
swell and puff and cook in just about i minute; watch carefully 
that it does not burn ; it is not necessary to wait till the whole mass 
is solid as its own heat will cook it after it has left the pan, but 
begin at one side and carefully roll the edge over and over till it is 
all rolled up, then let it stand a moment to brown; turn out on a 
hot plate and serve immediately. 

APPLE OMELETTE. 

Eight large apples, 4 eggs, i cup sugar, i tablespoon butter, 
nutmeg or cinnamon to taste ; stew the apples and mash fine ; add 
butter and sugar; when cold, add the eggs, well beaten ; bake until 
brown and eat while warm. 



EGGS AND OMELETTES. 23 1 

BAKED OMELETTE. 

One and one-half pints milk, 4 eggs, i tablespoon flour, i of butter, 
I teaspoon salt; let the milk come to a boil; mix the butter and 
flour together; pour the boiling milk on the mixture, which then 
cook 5 minutes, stirring all the while ; put away to cool ; when 
cooled, add the salt and the eggs, the yolks and whites having been 
beaten separately ; pour into a buttered dish and bake 20 minutes 
in a quick oven ; serve at once ; the dish should hold a little more 
than a quart. 

BEEF OMELETTE. 

Three pounds beefsteak, 3^ pound suet, chopped fine, salt, 
pepper, ^nd a little sage, 3 eggs, 6 Boston crackers, rolled ; make 
into roll and bake. 

CHEESE OMELETTE. 

Make the same as plain omelette, and as soon as it begins to 
thicken sprinkle in 3 tablespoons grated cheese. 

CHICKEN OMELETTE. 

The same as plain omelette, and just before folding, add I cup 
cooked chicken, cut rather fine, and warmed in cream sauce. 

CORN OMELETTE. 

One pint cold boiled corn, 4 eggs, Yz cup milk, i^ teaspoons 
salt, a little pepper, 3 tablespoons butter; beat the eggs, and add to 
them the salt, pepper, milk, and corn ; fry like a plain omelette. 

FISH OMELETTE. 

Boil a shad roe 20 minutes in salt and water; chop it fine, and 
add to it I cup of any kind of cold fish, broken fine ; season with 
salt and pepper, and warm in i cup cream sauce ; make a plain 
omelette with 6 eggs ; when ready to fold, spread the prepared fish 
on it ; roll up, dish, and serve immediately. 



232 EGGS AND OMELETTES. 

FRENCH OMELETTE. 

One quart milk, i pint bread crumbs, 5 eggs, i tablespoon flour, 
I onion chopped fine, chopped parsley, season with pepper and salt ; 
have butter melted in a spider; when the omelette is brown, turn 
it over; double when served. 

HAM OMELETTE. 

The same as plain omelette, and add 3 tablespoons cooked ham, 
chopped rather fine, as soon as it begins to thicken. 

JELLY OMELETTE. 

A jelly omelette is made like the others, and, just before folding, 
spread with any kind of jelly (currant or grape is the best, how- 
ever). Fold quickly and serve. 

OYSTER OMELETTE. 

Allow for every 6 large oysters or 12 small ones, i egg', remove 
the hard part and mince the rest very fine ; take the yolks of 8 eggs 
and whites of 4, beat till very light ; then mix in the oysters, season 
and beat all up thoroughly ; put into a skillet I gill butter, let it 
melt ; when the butter boils, skim it and turn in the omelette ; stir 
until it stiffens, fry light brown ; when the under side is brown, 
turn on to a hot platter; if wanted the upper side brown hold a 
red-hot shovel over it. 

SAVORY OMELETTE. 

This is made like a plain omelette, with the addition of salt and 
I tablespoon chopped parsley. A little grated onion may be used 
also, if you like it. 



PRESERVING EGGS. 



TO PRESERVE EGGS FOR WINTER USE. 

For every 3 gallons water put in i pint fresh slacked lime, and 
j4 pint common salt ; mix well and let the barrel be about }4 full 



EGGS AND OMELETTES. 233 

of this fluid, then with a dish let down your fresh eggs into it, tip- 
ping the dish after it fills with water, so they will roll out without 
cracking the shell, for if the shell is cracked the egg will spoil. 

ENGLISH METHOD. 

Put into a tub i bushel Winchester measure of quick lime 
(which is fresh slacked lime), 32 ounces salt, 8 ounces cream of tar- 
tar. Use as much water as will give that consistency to the com- 
position as will cause an egg to swim with its top just above the 
liquid. Then put and keep the eggs therein, which will preserve 
them perfectly sound at least 2 years. 

METHODS FOR HOME USE. 

Dip the eggs, a few at a time, for a moment into boiling water, 
and pack in salt. This is splendid for home use. 

Rub them over lightly, but carefully, with linseed oil, and pack 
in oats or cut straw. Not good for market as it makes the shells 
shiny. 



CHAPXKR X. 

FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 



AMBROSIA. 

One pine-apple, chopped quite fine, ^ box strawberries, 6 
bananas sliced and th^ slices quartered, 6 oranges sliced and the 
slices quartered, i lemon cut fine; sweeten to taste. 

APPLES, GRAPES AND PEARS. 

Wipe pears and apples bright, and cleanse the grapes, if sticky 
or dusty, by plunging each bunch into cold water and laying 
between the folds of a soft cloth ; arrange the fruit tastefully in a 
dish, and garnish with leaves or flowers ; provide each person with 
a plate, finger-bowl, fruit-napkin, fork and spoon. 

BANANAS AND CREAM. 

Peel, slice and heap up in a glass dessert -dish, and serve raw, 
with fine sugar and cream, or sprinkle with sugar and put a few 
drops of orange-juice on each piece ; set in the refrigerator for a 
short time before serving ; add i tablespoon whipped cream to 
each dish when serving. 

BLACKBERRIES AND CREAM. 

Pick the blackberries over carefully, and let them get very cold 
before serving them. Light cakes of any sort make an agreeable 
accompaniment to berries and cream. 

TO KEEP GRAPES. 

Select nice fresh clusters, and cut the end of the stem smooth 
and dip it into melted sealing-wax; then put it in cotton-batting; 
pack them away in wooden boxes; keep them in a dry, cool place. 
In this way they will keep fresh all winter. Another way : Take 

234 




PRESERVING TIME. 



FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 235 

full bunches, ripe and perfect ; seal the end that is cut from the 
vine so that no air can get in, or the juice of the stem run out, and 
let them stand i day after sealed, so as to be perfectly sure they 
are sealed (it not they will shrivel up); then pack in boxes of dry 
saw-dust and keep in a cool place; they will keep nicely all winter 
without losing their flavor ; in packing, do not crowd the bunches ; 
sprinkle the saw-dust over the bottom of the box, then lay the 
grapes carefully, i bunch at a time, all over the box, then saw-dust 
and grapes alternately until the box is full. 

MELONS. 

Melons are much nicer if kept on ice until time for serving; cut 
off a slice at each end of the water-melon, then cut through the 
center ; stand on end on platter. Cantaloupe melons should have 
the seeds removed before sending to the table. Eat with a spoon- 
ful of strained honey in each half of melon. 

ORANGES. 

Slice, mix with powdered sugar, and strew grated cocoa-nut over 
the top ; are also nice served whole, the skins quartered and turned 
down ; form in a pyramid with bananas and white grapes. 

PEACHES AND CREAM. 

Peel and slice peaches as late as possible before serving them, 
as exposure to the air discolors them ; never sweeten in the dish, 
but pass sugar and cream with each saucerful. 

PINE-APPLES. 

Slice on a slaw cutter, or with a very thin knife, or cut slice off 
the top and with a silver fork remove all the pulp ; it comes out all 
soft and foamy, leaving the hard core, which is not fit to eat ; 
sweeten to taste and set on ice till ready to serve. 

STRAWBERRIES, ITALIAN. 

Place as many berries as will form a layer at the bottom of a 
dessert-dish, and sprinkle thickly over powdered loaf-sugar; then 



236 FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 

another layer of berries and sugar, until the dish is full ; then 
squeeze over the top the juice of i fresh lemon ; stir them around 
before serving, that they may imbibe the lemon and sugar; or use 
orange-juice instead of lemon, using 3 oranges for i quart berries. 



FRUIT SAUCES. 



The acid of apples is among the most healthful of substances 
taken into the human stomach. It rouses the action of the liver 
when torpid, and thus enables it to eliminate and throw off the 
germs of bilious disorders, and those of other diseases arising from 
slow blood poison. They must also be classed as among the most 
important and valuable of the vegetable growths, especially for that 
class who work with the brain. 

APPLE DAINTIES. 

Pare and core 8 large apples, cook in a light syrup and drain on 
a sieve. Have ready as many round pieces of sponge cake as there 
are apples, cut the same size and i inch thick ; sprinkle sugar over 
and glaze them in a moderate oven. Dish up the apples on the 
cakes, set a preserved greengage on the top of each, reduce th« 
syrup with J^ glass currant jelly ; pour over and serve. 

APPLE SAUCE. 

Pare, core and cut up 2 quarts or less of apples and add cold 
Avater enough to not quite cover them. When boiled soft enough 
to mash with a wooden spoon, add sugar to suit the taste, grated 
nutmeg may be added or a little lemon juice, as you may prefer for 
flavoring. 

JELLIED BAKED APPLES. 

Melt and slightly brown i teacup sugar, dissolve with i teacup 
water; add 6 fine tart apples, halved or quartered and cored ; cover 
and bake slowly, basting occasionally ; uncover and brown nicely 



FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 237 

before taking from the oven ; add water if this boils away ; arrange 
the apples nicely in a buttered mold, and strain the syrup over 
them ; prepare at least a day before needed. 

A NICE WAY TO PREPARE APPLES. 

Pare i dozen tart apples, take out the core, place sugar, with a 
small lump of butter in the center of each apple, put them in a pan 
with^ pint water, bake until tender, basting occasionally with the 
syrup while baking ; when done, serve with cream. 

HOW TO TREAT TASTELESS EARLY APPLES. 

Take 4 pounds apples (weigh them after they are peeled), 2 
pounds sugar, y^ ounce cinnamon in the stick, V^ ounce cloves and 
I pint vinegar; let the vinegar, spices and sugar come to a boil; 
then put in the whole apples and cook them until they are so 
tender that a broom splint will pierce them easily. 

PRESERVED APPLES FOR TEA. 

Make a nice syrup of sugar and water, and put in some small 
pieces of ginger root or the yellow of orange peel ; have some good 
firm apples pared and halved — pippins are best — and when the 
syrup has boiled up 3 or 4 times and been skimmed, drop in the 
apples and cook until transparent, but they must not go to pieces. 
Let them be quite cold before eaten, and good cream greatly 
improves it. 

FRIED BANANAS. 

Cut bananas in two lengthwise and dip them first in beaten q.%^, 
then roll them in flour ; have your fat boiling hot, drop them in and 
fry to a fine yellow brown ; take out carefully with a split spoon 
and serve folded in a white napkin. 

CRANBERRY- SAUCE. 
See " Sauces and Catsups^ 



238 FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 

CANDIED CHERRIES. 

Two quarts large, ripe, red cherries, stoned carefully ; 2 pounds 
loaf sugar, i cup water. Make a syrup of the sugar and water and 
boil until it is thick enough to " pull," as for candy. Remove to the 
side of the range, and stir until it shows signs of granulation. It is 
well to stir frequently while it is cooking, to secure this end. When 
there are grains or crystals on the spoon, drop in the cherries, a few 
at a time. Let each supply lie in the boiling syrup 2 minutes, when 
remove to a sieve set over a dish. Shake gently but long, then 
turn the cherries out upon a cool, broad dish, and dry in a sunny 
window. 

GLACE CHERRIES. 

Make as above but not let the syrup granulate. It should not 
be stirred at all, but when it " ropes " pour it over the cherries, 
which should be spread out upon a large flat dish. When the 
syrup is almost cold, take these out, one by one, with a teaspoon, 
and spread upon a dish to dry in the open air. If nicely managed, 
these are nearly as good as those put up by professional confec- 
tioners. Keep in a dry, cool place. 

TO CRYSTALLIZE FRUIT. 

Pick out the finest of any kind of fruit — leave in the stones ; beat 
the whites of 3 eggs to a stiff froth ; lay the fruit in the beaten egg, 
with the stems upward ; drain them and beat the part that drips 
off again ; select them out, one by one, and dip them into a cup of 
finely-powdered sugar ; cover a pan with a sheet of fine paper, 
place the fruit on it, and set it in a cool oven ; when the icing on 
the fruit becomes firm, pile them on a dish, and set them in a cold 
place. , 

COMPOTE OF DAMSONS. 

Pick the stalks from i quart sound, ripe damsons ; simmer them 
in a syrup made as follows: Put 2 pounds loaf sugar into i quart 
water, and stew it over the fire until the sugar has all dissolved, 
then add the white of i egg whipped up with a little water; 



FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 239 

whisk the whole well together, and simmer very gently ; take off 
the scum as it rises; then put the damsons into the syrup and 
simmer them gently until the fruit is tender, but not sufficiently 
soft as to break it; this will be in about % hour; take them up, 
and boil the syrup for 5 minutes ; pour it over the damsons, and 
serve. 

A COMPOTE OF PEACHES. ■ 

Take some firm free-stone peaches, cut them into halves, remove 
the stones and dip the halves into boiling water ; then, after taking 
off the skins, cook them in hot syrup, allowing them to boil up 
twice, when they will be done enough; then dish them up, strain 
the syrup through a sieve, and pour it over, hot or cold. 

STEWED PRUNES. 

Put the prunes over the fire in enough water to cover them and 
stew until tender; sweeten to taste and eat when perfectly cold ; 
small sponge cakes, or fancy cakes of any kind, are a pleasant 
accompaniment to this dish, or lacking them, nice bread and butter. 

BAKED PEARS. 

Wipe large, sweet pears and place them side by side, stems 
upward, in a pudding-dish ; pour over them i cup boiling water into 
which has been stirred i tablespoon sugar; invert a pan over them 
and bake until the pears are tender; let them become cool in the 
liquor, and serve them in a glass dish, with the syrup poured over 
them. Eat with sus[;ar and cream. 



STEWED PEARS. 

Peel pears; place them in a little water, with sugar, cloves, 
cinnamon and lemon peel; stew gently, and add i glass cider. 
Dish up cold. 



240 



FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 

CANNING FRUIT. 



The fruit should be perfectly fresh, and the sooner it is canned 
after it is taken from the tree or vine the better. If a small 
quantity, say half a dozen quarts, is cooked at one time the color 
of the fruit and the uniformity of the cooking will be better than 
if a larger quantity is attempted. Glass cans with glass tops, a 
rubber band and a screw ring give the best satisfaction, as they can 
be sealed and unsealed in a moment's time. As for the process, 
when the fruit is done, pour it boiling hot into the cans; let them 
remain untouched 15 or 20 minutes, till the fruit settles, then fill 
them full again and seal up. If the can is placed on a very wet 
cloth it will not break when the scalding fruit is put into it. Turn 
the cans after screwing them up tightly, bottom side up, and if no 
syrup leaks out no air can get in. When cold set them away in a 
dark cool closet. 



TABLE FOR CANNING FRUIT. 

Time fo» 

boiling 

fruit. 

Apricots 10 min. 

Sour Apples 10 " 

Crab Apples 25 " 

Blackberries 6 " 

Gooseberries 8 " 

Raspberries 6 " 

Huckleberries 5 " 

Strawberries 8 " 

Cherries 5 " 

Currants .• 6 

Wild Grapes lo " 

Sour Pears, whole 30 " 

Bartlett Pears 20 " 

Peaches, in halves 8 " 

Plums 10 " 

Peaches, whole 15 " 

Pine-apple, sliced 15 " 

Tomatoes 30 " 

Quinces 30 " 

Rhubarb 10 " 



oz. 



Quantity 
of sugar 
per qt. 

8 
6 
8 
6 
8 
4 
4 
8 
6 
8 
8 
8 
6 

4 

S 

4 

6 

o 
10 
10 



FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES 24I 

APPLE SAUCE. 

Ready for table use or for pies may be kept till apples are out of 
the market by putting it into hot jars and sealing at once. 

CANNED SWEET CORN. 

There are at least two excellent methods of canning green corn 
from which the housekeeper may take her choice. In the first pro- 
cess she will probably find less difficulty than in the second. Select 
good firm ears, with as few imperfect kernels as may be. Put over 
the fire in a pot of boiling water and cook until they are so well 
done that the milk will not flow from the grains when they are 
pricked with a fork. Cut the corn from the cob with a sharp knife, 
shaving as close to the cob as possible. Choose wide-mouthed stone 
crocks for keeping it, and place a layer of salt, about yi inch 
^ thick in the bottom of each. Follow this with a 2-inch layer of 
corn, and more salt on that. More corn comes next, and so on to 
the top of the jar, the last thickness being of salt i inch deep. 
Melt enough lard to cover the salt with a thick coating, and pour it 
on after it has cooled. Before it quite hardens press on it a round 
of white paper just the size of the jar's mouth. Set the jar in a 
cool place, and when the corn is needed take it out long enough 
before cooking to soak it several hours. The second method is to 
be followed where tin cans are used, or such as will permit of the 
top being pierced. By this rule the corn must be cut from the cob. 
before cooking, packed into the cans and these hermetically sealed.. 
They must then be set in a large boiler and straw placed between, 
the cans so they may not strike against each other. Enough cold 
water must be poured into the boiler to cover the cans and this 
gradually brought to a boil. After they have reached this point 
they must boil ly^ hours. They may then be removed from the fire 
and the top punctured to allow the escape of gases. Immediately 
afterwards, while still very hot, these holes must be sealed. This 
process is called one of the best, and has been patented. 



x6 



242 FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 

CANNED BERRIES. 

Heat slowly to boiling in a porcelain kettle ; when they begin to 
boil, add sugar according to table above. Before doing this, how- 
ever, if there is much juice in the kettle, dip out the surplus and 
save for jelly ; it will only increase the number of cans. Leave the 
berries almost dry before putting in the sugar, this will make syrup 
enough. Boil all together and can. 

CANNED GRAPES AND ELDERBERRIES. 

Cook grapes and rub pulp through a colander; remove skins 
from seeds and put with pulp and juice ; then add about equal 
quantities of elderberries ; cook all together for a few minutes, 
sweeten and can. 

CANNED PLUMS. 

Wash and put whole into a syrup made in the proportion of i 
pint water and i pound sugar to every 2 pounds fruit ; boil for lo 
minutes, can, and seal immediately ; if pricked with a fork before 
placing in syrup, they will be less liable to burst. Cherries are 
canned in the same way. 

CANNED PEARS. 

Prepare a syrup, allowing i pint water and 6 tablespoons sugar 
to I quart fruit ; while this is heating peel the pears, dropping each 
as it is prepared into a pan of clear water ; when the syrup has 
come to a fast boil, put in the pears carefully and boil until they 
look clear and can be easily pierced by a fork ; have the cans ready 
rolled in hot water ; pack with the pears and fill to overflowing with 
the scalding syrup, which must be kept on the fire all the while, 
and seal. The tougher and more common pears must be boiled in 
water until tender, and thrown while warm into the hot syrup, then 
allowed to boil lo minutes before they are canned. 

PREPARED PEARS. 

At this time of the year a good many families have such quan- 
tities of ripened pears that they can neither eat nor profitably 



FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 243 

dispose of them. A lady who has tried it finds this an excellent use to 
make of them : Cut them in thick shces, stew them, and then, in an 
open oven, dry them thoroughly, if it takes 2 days. They come out 
all honeyed over with their own sweetness, and fig-like in their sub- 
stance and consistency, at once suggesting both raisins and figs. 
And they are excellent eating, far finer than any one would believe 
without trying. They will keep, it is said, a year or two. 



CANNED PEACHES. 

Pare, cut in half, and stone, taking care not to break the fruit ; 
drop each piece in cold water as soon as it is pared ; allow 4 table- 
spoons sugar to each quart fruit, scattering it between the layers; 
fill your kettle and heat slowly to a boil; boil 3 minutes, until every 
piece of fruit is heated through ; can and seal. Put i cup water 
in the bottom of the kettle before packing it with fruit, lest the 
lower layer should burn. 

DRIED PEACHES. 

Peaches, as usually dried, are very good fruit, but can be made 
vastly better if treated the right way. Pare and halve good fruit 
and sprinkle a little sugar into the cavity left by extracting the pit ; 
then dry as usual. 

A good way to preserve the small early peaches w'hich are not 
suitable for canning is to peel them, and to 8 pounds fruit add 3 
pounds light brown sugar; scatter the sugar over the peaches and 
let them stand for a few hours, then you will not be obliged to add 
a drop of water to them ; let them cook slowly until they look 
clear, and can be pierced easily with a broom splint ; then spread 
them on plates and set them in the sun to dry. There will be a 
thick syrup left in the kettle, which may be boiled a few minutes 
after the fruit is taken out and poured over the fruit on the plates. 
When the peaches are dry pack them in jars, with powdered sugar 
scattered over each layer. The jars must be carefully covered, so 
that it will be impossible for the smallest fly to enter. 



244 FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 

CANNED PINE-APPLE. 

Slice rather thin and cut slices in half; make a syrup of about 
5^ pound sugar and i pint water ; let the pine-apples cook in the 
boiling syrup until quite tender; pack in jars with plenty of syrup, 
to which may be added a flavor of lemon-juice if liked ; screw the 
tops on tightly, just as canned pears or peaches are done, and keep 
in a cool, dark place; they are very nice, but troublesome to peel; 
it is better to cut the pine-apple in slices, and peel each slice ; dig 
out the eyes with a silver fork. 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES. 

Fill glass jars with fresh whole strawberries, sprinkled with sugar 
in the proportion of ^ pound sugar to i quart berries, lay covers 
on lightly, stand them in wash boiler filled with water to within i 
inch of tops of cans (the water must not be more than milk-warm 
when the cans are placed in it). When it has boiled for 15 
minutes, draw to back of stove, let steam pass off, roll the hand in 
a towel, lift out cans and place on a table. If the berries are not 
well covered with their own juice, take a tablespoon and fill up the 
first can to the very top of the rim from the second, wipe the neck, 
rub dry, and screw the top down firmly, observing carefully the 
general directions for canning berries. Fill another from the 
second can, and so on until all are finished. Great care must be 
taken to keep the berries whole and round ; as the cans cool invert 
them occasionally, to prevent the fruit from forming in a mass at 
one end. 

TO BOTTLE RASPBERRIES. 

Take the quantity of berries desired — these should be as sound 
and fresh as possible — and having freed them from all bugs or 
other insects, put them into wide-mouthed bottles and pour over 
enough syrup to cover them. This syrup should be made as fol- 
lows : Take i quart water and whisk up with it i teaspoon of the 
white of egg, adding 3 pounds sugar and boiling until clear. After 
covering the berries with the syrup, cork the bottles and tie the 
corks down securely. Then place the bottles in a deep pan and 



FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES.' 24$ 

pour in enough cold water to cover all but the necks. Set the pan 
on the fire, and just as the water comes to the boiling point 
remove the pan where it may simmer lo or 15 minutes, then take 
it ofi the fire and let it stand, without disturbing the bottles till 
the water is quite cold. Then examine the corks again to see that 
they are still tight, when they may be sealed with wax and set 
away in your storeroom till wanted. 



JAMS AND JELLIES. 



Jellies and jams should be put in tumblers or bowls. A paper 
should be cut to fit the top, and then wet in brandy, and another 
paper should be pasted over it. Jelly tumblers with glass covers are 
more convenient than the old-fashioned ones, and where they are 
used the second paper cover is not necessary. It is better not to 
cover until some weeks after the jelly is made. White crushed 
sugar is much the nicest for preserving. If jelly does not seem 
hard as it should be the day after it is made, it can be set in the 
sun for several hours, which will help it greatly. 

In making marmalades, jams, etc., if put up in small quantities 
and for immediate use, ^^ pound sugar to i pound fruit is sufificient; 
but if desirable to keep them longer, i pound sugar to I pound 
fruit is a better proportion. 

APPLE JAM. 

Peel and core the apples, cut in thin slices and put them in a 
preserving-kettle with }^ pound white sugar to every pound fruit ; 
add tied up in a piece of muslin, a few cloves, a small piece ginger 
and a thin rind of lemon; stir with a wooden spoon on a quick 
fire for ^ hour. 

APRICOT JAM. 

Pare 3 pounds fresh, sound apricots, halve them, and take out 
the stones; they should be ripe enough to halve with the fingers; 
place them in a deep dish, and strew over them i pound finely-sifted 



246 FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 

sugar; let them remain for 8 hours; then place them with the syrup 
that will have oozed from them in a preserving-pan ; add a few of 
the kernels blanched and sliced, and i^ pounds more of sugar; 
let them boil very gently, and, when done, put them into glasses 
or jars and cover closely with gummed paper. 

BERRY OR CURRANT JAM. 

Any kind of berry or currant jam may be made by putting into 
a preserving-kettle and boiling 15 or 20 minutes, stirring often and 
skimming off any scum that may rise ; then add sugar in the pro- 
portion of ^ pound sugar to i pound fruit ; boil 30 minutes longer, 
stirring continually ; when done pour into small jars or jelly 
glasses ; a good way is to mix raspberries and currants in the pro- 
portion of ^ of the former to ^ of the latter. 

GOOSEBERRY, OR PLUM JAM. 

Stew the berries in a little water, press through a coarse sieve or 
colander; then return to the kettle and add ^4 pound sugar to I 
pound pulped fruit; boil ^ hour, stirring constantly; pour in jars 
or bowls and cover as directed for other jams. 

GRAPE JAM. 

Pick the grapes from the stems and wash them ; after they are 
drained slip the pulp from the skin, keeping them in separate dishes ; 
then boil the pulp until it will easily part from the seeds ; strain 
through a colander, rinsing the seed with a little water ; boil the 
skins, adding some water, until they are quite tender ; the Isabella 
will not become as tender as other varieties ; then put all together 
and weigh i pound sugar to i pound fruit ; boil 2 or 3 minutes, and 
put into cups or jars. 

PEACH JAM. 

Take the desired quantity of ripe peaches, pare them and remove 
the stones and cut them into quarters ; put them into a preserving 
pan and set over the fire and stir constantly until they become very 



FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 24/ 

soft; then rub through a sieve to take out the lumps: beat the pulp 
well until the mass is thoroughly smooth, then to each pound of the 
pulp add I pound white sugar; put the contents over the fire again, 
stirring and skimming constantly, and cook 15 minutes after the 
pulp once begins to boil; fill jars and cover tightly, and keep in a 
cool, dry place. 

PINE-APPLE JAM. 

Pare the fruit clean ; then grate it on a coarse grater, rejecting 
the cores; weigh it, and put to each pound of fruit i pound sugar; 
let it stand over night ; in the morning boil for i minute, and it is 
done. Put it in jars as directed. 

PINE-APPLE JAM, NO. 2. 

Pare, remove spots, and cut into very small pieces; weigh; put 
into a saucepan with water to nearly cover and cook until tender ; 
make a syrup of sugar, adding a little water to dissolve it, allowing 
^ pound for i pound fruit ; boil, and remove the scum ; then add 
to the pine apple and boil slowly for about 10 minutes or until the 
pine-apple looks clear. 

RHUBARB JAM. 

Peel and cut up the rhubarb, boil till reduced to a pulp with a 
very little water ; allow i pound sugar, i oz. sweet almonds, 
blanched and chopped, and 3^ lemon cut in slices to each pound 
of pulp ; boil for ^ hour, remove the lemon peel, and put into jars. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Slice and boil the fruit till thoroughly done; strain through a 
coarse bag and to i pint juice allow i pound sugar, or i cup 
sugar to I cup juice. After the juice has boiled 20 minutes add 
the sugar, and stir till dissolved. Take off, put into glasses and 
cover with close tin tops. 

BLACKBERRY JELLY. 

Take blackberries before they are ripe, when they are turned 
red, put them in a porcelain kettle and cook until reduced to a 



248 FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 

pulp ; then strain them and to i pint juice add i pound sugar. 
Boil to a jelly. 

CRANBERRY JELLY. 

Stew the cranberries until they are tender, then pour into a 
jelly-bag and let drip over night ; take i pound sugar to each pint 
of juice; let the juice boil 5 minutes, then pour in the sugar and 
stir until thoroughly dissolved. 

CRANBERRY JELLY, NO. 2. 

Dainty cranberry jelly is made by boiling i quart berries in I 
pint Avater until soft. Strain, add I cup sugar to each cup of juice 
and let it just come to a boil. Wet the molds with cold water and 
pour the juice into them. Serve in an oval glass dish. 

CRAB-APPLE JELLY. 

Boil the fruit whole in water enough to cover it until perfectly 
soft, then pour into a coarse linen bag and let it drip until it ceases, 
then press it a little. Allow i pound sugar to each pint juice. If 
you choose add the juice of i lemon to each quart of syrup. Boil 
the juice first, then skim it ; heat the sugar in a dish in the oven 
and add it as the juice boils up. Boil gently 20 minutes and pour 
in tumblers or molds. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

From the Home Messenger we copy the following : This recipe 
is the only one which we will warrant to make good jelly against 
odds. We have made jelly by it on the fifth of July and on the 
fifteenth, and each time it was a perfect success. While we recom- 
mend all persons to make their jelly from fresh fruit, early in the 
season, we can still assure those who are behindhand that they 
need not despair of jelly that will set firm and hard later in the 
season. Run the currants through your hand picking out the leaves 
and any stray thing that may adhere to them but leaving the cur- 
rants on their stems. Weigh the fruit, being accurate in remember- 
ing the number of pounds. Put i pint water into your preserv- 
ing kettle and add a bowl or two of currants, mashing and pressing 



FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 249 

them till you have sufficient juice to cover the bottom of the ket- 
tle; then add the remainder of the currants; let them come to a 
boil and boil at least 20 minutes, of course stirring and pressing 
them from time to time that they may not burn. Have a three- 
cornered bag of thin but strong unbleached cotton that has been 
well scalded and wrung till almost dry ; hang it up and pour the 
boiled currants into it. Let it drip into a stone crock all night, but 
by no means squeeze it, the currants will drain perfectly dry. In 
the morning pour the strained juice into the preserving kettle 
without measuring ; let it come to a boil and boil thoroughly for 
3 or 4 minutes, then pour y^ as many pounds of sugar as you had 
pounds of currants. For instance, i peck currants will probably 
weigh 12 pounds; therefore use 6 pounds sugar. The moment 
the sugar is entirely dissolved the jelly is done. To make sure of 
the sugar being entirely dissolved see that it begins to jelly on the 
ladle. It v/ill look thick and drop thick and a little stringy, but if 
let heat beyond this point it will loose its thickness and not jelly 
nearly so well and always disappoint you if you lose faith in your 
instructions and insist upon ' letting it come to a boil.' All the 
boiling is done before you put in the sugar. 

FOUR-FRUIT JELLY. 

Take equal quantities of ripe strawberries, raspberries, currants, 
and red cherries ; all should be fully ripe, and the cherries must be 
stoned, taking care to preserve the juice that escapes in stoning, 
and add it to the rest. Mix the fruit together, put it into a linen 
bag, and squeeze it thoroughly ; when it has ceased to drip, measure 
the juice, and to each pint allow i pound and 2 ounces of the 
best loaf sugar, in large lumps. Mix the juice and sugar together; 
put them in a porcelain-lined preserving-kettle, and boil for ^ 
hour, skimming frequently. Try the jelly by dipping out a spoon- 
ful, and holding it in the open air ; if it congeals readily it is suffi- 
ciently done. 

GRAPE JELLY. 

Put the grapes into a preserving-kettle and heat, bruising them 
meantime with a potato masher, until the juice runs freely, then 



250 FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 

strain through a sieve or thin cloth and measure i pint juice for I 
pound sugar. Boil the juice 15 or 20 minutes before putting in the 
sugar; after adding the sugar let it boil from 3 to 5 minutes. All 
fruit will form more readily into a jelly if not quite ripe. 

PEACH JELLY. 

Crack j'^ of the kernels and put them into the jar with the 
peaches, which have been wiped, stoned and sliced. Heat in a pot 
of boiling water, stirring occasionally until the fruit is well broken ; 
strain, and to each pint of peach juice add the juice of I lemon; 
measure again and to each pint of juice allow i pound sugar. 
Heat the sugar very hot and add when the juice has boiled 20 
minutes. Let it come to a boil and take instantly from the fire. 

PIE-PLANT JELLY. 

Stew the stalks until tender in a preserving-kettle; strain 
through a jelly-bag; flavor with extract of lemon. To each pint of 
juice add i pound sugar; boil until it jellies on the skimmer; 
remove it from the fire and put into jars. 

PLUM JELLY. 

Boil plums in a little water, strain through a jelly-bag, add I 
pound sugar to I pint juice and boil 20 minutes. 

QUINCE JELLY. 

Peel, cut up and core some fine, ripe quinces ; put them in suflS- 
cient cold water to cover them and stew gently till soft, but not 
red ; strain the juice without pressure, weigh, and to each pound 
of juice allow i pound crushed sugar, boil the juice 20 minutes, add 
the sugar and boil again until it jellies — about ^^ hour; stir and 
skim well all the time ; strain through thin cloth into your jelly 
glasses, and when cold, cover it. The remainder of the fruit can 
be made into marmalade, with 3_^ pound sugar and }^ pound juicy 
apples to each pound of quinces, or it can be made into compotes 
or tarts. 



FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 2$ I 

QUINCE JELLY, NO. 2. 

Take the cores and parings of the quinces, put them in enough 
cold water to cover them, and boil until they are soft ; squeeze and 
add the juice to the water, and any syrup which may be left from 
the quince preserve, and strain it ; to each pint of juice allow i 
pound sugar; spread the sugar in pans ; put it in the oven to heat ; 
it must be watched and stirred to prevent burning; let the juice 
boil for 5 minutes, then pour in the hot sugar, stirring until it is 
entirely dissolved, and skimming any scum that may rise ; there 
will be very little ; let it come to a boil, then take from the fire and 
put in jars or glasses ; the jelly will be clear, of a good color, and 
keep well. All kinds of jellies can be made in the same way, and 
it saves much labor in the time of boiling the juices and the trouble 
of skimming. 

MOLDINESS. 

Fruit jellies may be preserved from moldiness by covering the 
surface ^ inch deep with finely pulverized loaf sugar. Thus pro- 
tected, they will keep in good condition for years. 

TO TEST JELLY. 

A good and quick way to test jelly, to see if it is done, is to 
drop a little into a glass of cold water — ice-water if possible — if it 
falls to the bottom immediately, the jelly is done. 



GELATINE JELLIES. 



COFFEE JELLY. 

One pint sugar, i of strong coffee, i^ pints boiling water, i^^ 
pint cold water, i box gelatine ; soak the gelatine 2 hours in the 
cold water; pour the boiling water on it, and when it is dissolved, 
add the sugar and coffee; strain, turn into molds, and set away to 
harden. This is to be served with sugar and cream. 



252 FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 

CIDER JELLY. 

One box gelatine, i pint sugar, 2)/^ pints cider, J^ pint cold 
water; soak the gelatine in the cold water for 2 hours; let the 
cider come to a boil, and pour it on the gelatine ; add the sugar, 
strain through a napkin, and turn into molds; when cold place in 
the refrigerator for 6 or 8 hours. 

LEMON SNOW JELLY. 

Dissolve I box gelatine in nearly i quart boiling water, then 
add the juice of 5 lemons and enough sugar to sweeten to taste; 
strain and set aside until nearly cool; beat the whites of 5 eggs 
and whip into the jelly; turn into a dish and set until cool; after 
it becomes solid, decorate with pieces of red jelly. 

LEMON JELLY. 

Two cups sugar, i of lemon-juice, i quart boiling water, I cup 
cold water, i box gelatine; soak the gelatine in the cold water for 
2 hours; pour the boiling water on it, add the sugar and lemon- 
juice, strain through a napkin, mold and harden. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

One box gelatine, i pint orange-juice, the juice of I lemon, I 
pint sugar, i^^ pints boiling water, ^ pint cold water, the white 
and shell of i egg; soak the gelatine as for the other jellies; add 
the boiling water, sugar, the fruit-juice, and the white and shell of 
the egg, beaten with 2 tablespoons cold water; let the mixture 
come to a boil, and set back for 20 minutes where it will keep hot 
but Avill not boil; strain through a napkin. A pretty way to mold 
this jelly is to fill the mold to the depth of 2 inches with liquid 
jelly, and when this is hardened, put on a layer of oranges, divided 
into eighths ; to pour on a little more jelly, to set the fruit, and 
then fill up with jelly. Keep in the ice-chest for 6 or 8 hours. 

PINE-APPLE JELLY. 

One and one-half pint cans pine-apple, i scant pint sugar, the white 
and shell of i ^g^, i box gelatine, the juice of i lemon, i quart 



FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 253 

boiling water, ^ pint cold water; cut the pine-apple in fine pieces, 
put with the boiling water, and simmer gently 20 minutes; soak 
the gelatine in the cold water for 2 hours; add it, the sugar, lemon 
and pine-apple-juice, and the white and shell of the egg, to the 
boiling mixture ; let this boil up once, and set back for 20 minutes 
where it will keep hot, but will not boil; strain through a napkin, 
turn into molds, and set away to harden. 



STRAWBERRY JELLY. 

Three pints ripe strawberries, i box gelatine, i pint sugar, i 
pint boiling water, ^ pint cold water, the juice of i lemon ; soak 
the gelatine for 2 hours in the cold water; mash the berries with 
the sugar, and let them stand 2 hours; pour the boiling water on 
the fruit and sugar; press the juice from the strawberries, and add 
it and the lemon-juice to the dissolved gelatine ; strain through a 
napkin, pour into molds, and harden. Raspberry jelly is made in 
the same way. 



MARMALADES AND BUTTERS. 



APPLE BUTTER. 

To make good apple butter simply requires good, sweet apples 
and pure sweet cider. Pare and core the apples and boil until the 
cider is reduced at least half, or until the whole is a rich dark pulp, 
stirring constantly. If you like spice, the rule is i tablespoon cin- 
namon and ]4, teaspoon ground cloves to each gallon apple butter, 
added when done but still hot. 

CHERRY BUTTER. 

Boil the cherries till soft; then rub through a colander, and to 
each pint of pulp add i pint sugar. Boil carefully till thick, 
like other fruit butters. Can or keep in closely covered jars. 



254 FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 

LEMON BUTTER. 

One and one-half cups sugar, whites of 3 eggs and yolk of i 
beaten ; ^ cup butter ; grate the yellow off of 2 medium-sized 
lemons ; then squeeze in the juice and mix all, and cook 20 min- 
utes by setting the basin containing it into a pan of boiling 
water. Very nice for tartr.. This may be made in quantity and 
kept a long time in cans or jars. 

PEACH BUTTER. 

Pare ripe peaches and put them in a kettle with sufficient water 
to boil them soft, when sift through a colander, removing the 
stones. To each quart of peaches put i^ pounds sugar and boil 
very slowly I hour. Stir often so they will not burn. When done 
season with ground spice and cinnamon to taste. 

PIE-PLANT BUTTER. 

Allow I pound sugar to each pound of peeled and cut-up 
rhubarb ; let the rhubarb and sugar simmer gently for i hour, or 
more if the rhubarb is old and tough. This is a nice preserve, and 
children should be encouraged to eat it during the winter. 

PLUM BUTTER. 

Scald till they crack open, then when cool put through a 
colander ; measure the plums thus prepared, to which add ^ the 
quantity of sweetening. Season with any desired spice. Boil well 
3 hours and it will not require sealing. 

APPLE MARMALADE. 

Peel and slice the apples ; w^eigh and put in a kettle and stew 
until tender; mash fine and add sugar in proportion of pound to 
pound ; let them cook slowly, stirring frequently ; be careful not to 
allow it to scorch ; when the mass has a jellied appearance it is 
done. About Yz hour will generally be found sufficient for making 
the marmalade after adding the sugar. 



FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 255 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Eighteen sweet ripe oranges, 6 pounds best white sugar; grate 
the peel from 4 oranges, and reserve it for the marmalade; the rinds 
of the rest will not be needed ; joare the fruit carefully, removing 
the inner white skin as well as the yellow ; slice the oranges ; remove 
the seeds ; put the fruit and grated peel in a porcelain or enamel 
saucepan and boil steadily until the pulp is reduced to a smooth 
mass ; take from the fire and rub quickly through a clean, bright 
colander, as the color is easily injured ; stir in the sugar, return to 
the fire, and boil fast, stirring constantly ^ hour, or until thick ; 
put while warm into small jars, but do not cover until cold ; this is 
a handsome and delicious sweetmeat. 

PINE-APPLE MARMALADE. 

Pare, slice, core and weigh the pine-apple ; then cut into small 
bits ; make a syrup of i cup water to 2 pounds sugar ; melt and 
heat to a boil ; heat the chopped pine-apple in a vessel set in another 
of boiling water, covering it closely to keep in the flavor ; when it 
is smoking hot all through, and begins to look clear, add to the 
syrup ; boil together ^ hour, stirring all the while, or until it is a 
clear, bright paste. 

PEACH MARMALADE. 

Pare, stone, and weigh the fruit ; heat slowly to draw out the 
juice, stirring up often from the bottom with a wooden spoon ; after 
it is hot, boil quickly, still stirring, ^ hour ; add then the sugar, 
allowing }^ pound to each pound of the fruit ; boil up well for 5 
minutes, taking off every particle of scum ; add the juice of i lemon 
for every 3 pounds fruit, and the water in which ^ of the kernels 
have been boiled and steeped ; stew all together 10 minutes, stirring 
to a smooth paste, and take from the fire ; put up hot in air-tight 
cans, or, when cold, in small stone or glass jars, with brandied 
tissue paper fitted neatly to the surface of the marmalade. A large, 
ripe pine-apple, pared and cut up fine, and stirred with the peaches, 
is a fine addition to the flavor. Strawberries, raspberries, black- 
berries and grapes all make nice marmalades. 



256 FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 

PLUM MARMALADE. 

Choose plums that are fully ripe; scald them till the skins peel 
off, and take out the stones. Allow i^ pounds sugar to i pound 
fruit ; let them lie in the sugar a few hours, then boil to a smooth 
mass. 

PUMPKIN MARMALADE. 

Take ripe, yellow pumpkins, pare and cut them into large 
pieces, scraping out the seeds with an iron spoon ; weigh the pieces, 
and to each pound allow i pound white sugar, and i small orange 
or lemon ; grate the pieces of pumpkin on a coarse grater, and put, 
together with the sugar, into a preserving-pan, the yellow rind of 
the orange grated, and the juice strained. Let all boil slowly, stir- 
ring it frequently and skimming it well till it is a smooth, thick 
marmalade; put it warm into small glass jars or tumblers and lay a 
double round of tissue paper with a bladder or waxed paper. 

QUINCE MARMALADE. 

Pare and core the fruit and cut it up rather fine ; cover with 
water and cook until tender ; meanwhile, in another kettle simmer 
the cores and skins in sufficient water to keep them from burning ; 
strain off the gelatinous liquid which will have formed, and add it 
to the quince pulp, with ^ pound sugar to i pound of the fruit ; 
boil the whole, stirring constantly, until it is a smooth mass; try it 
as in making jelly, and when it assumes a firm consistency make it 
up in jars or bowls as convenient ; cover tightly and keep in a dry 
place ; it will keep perfectly the year round. 

QUINCE CHEESE 

Is marmalade boiled down very thick and packed into small 
pots ; it will turn out as firm as cheese and can be cut in slices for 
luncheon or tea. 



FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 257 

PRESERVES. 



APPLE PRESERVES. 

Take ^ pound sugar to each pound apples ; make a syrup of 
the sugar and water, and a little lemon-juice or sliced lemon; skim 
off all scum and put a few apples at a time into the syrup and boil 
until they are transparent; skim out and put in a jar; when all are 
done, boil the syrup down thick; pour boiling hot over the apples, 
and cover closely. Well-flavored fruit, not easily broken, should be 
selected. 

APRICOT PRESERVES. 

Proceed the same as for preserving peaches, save that apricots, 
having a smooth, thin skin, do not require paring. 

CITRON PRESERVES. 

Pare and take out the seeds and cut them in pieces I inch thick 
and 2 inches in length ; weigh them and put into a preserving- 
kettle and cook them until they are clear, or steam them, then 
make a syrup of their weight in sugar with water and add 2 sliced 
lemons for each pound of fruit ; put the citron into the syrup, a 
part at a time, and boil about 15 minutes; skim out and put into 
ajar; when all has been thus cooked, boil the syrup down thick, 
and pour over it ; cover closely with paper which the air cannot 
penetrate, or use air-tight jars. 

CITRON PRESERVES, NO. 2. 

First, peel and cut the citron in pieces i inch square ; then boil 
in water until soft; drain off the water and add i pound sugar to 
each pound citron ; to every 5 pounds preserve add i pound raisins, 
I lemon sliced, ^' ounce white cloves, i ounce stick cinnamon ; 
dissolve the sugar, and when hot, add the fruit and simmer slowly 
for 2 hours. 

17 



258 FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 



CURRANT PRESERVES. 

Take lo pounds currants and 7 pounds sugar; pick the stems 
from 7 pounds of the currants and press the juice from the other 3 
pounds; when the juice and sugar are made into a hot syrup, put 
in the currants and boil until thick and rich, 

GOOSEBERRY PRESERVES. 

Gooseberries need but i pound sugar to i quart fruit, sour as 
they are; boil the sugar, dissolved in water, 20 minutes, add the 
fruit and let it boil 5 minutes, and then take off the fire and set it 
aside for 24 hours. The second day boil the fruit and syrup until 
clear and thick. 

BRANDIED CHERRIES OR BERRIES. 

Make a syrup of i pound sugar and ^ gill water for each 2 
pounds fruit; heat to boiling, stirring to prevent burning, and pour 
over the fruit while warm — not hot ; let them stand together i 
hour; put all into a preserving-kettle, and heat slowly; boil 5 
minutes, take out the fruit with a perforated skimmer, and boil the 
syrup 20 minutes; add i pint brandy for each 5 pounds fruit; 
pour over the berries hot, and seal. 

PRESERVED ORANGES. 

Take any number oranges, with rather more than their weight 
in white sugar ; slightly grate the oranges, and score them round 
and round with a knife, but do not cut very deep; put them in cold 
water for 3 days, changing the water 2 or 3 times a day; tie them 
up in a cloth, boil them until they are soft enough for the head of 
a pin to penetrate the skin ; while they are boiling place the 
su-garon the fire, with rather more than ^ pint water to each pound ; 
let it boil for i or 2 minutes, then strain it through muslin ; put the 
oranges into the syrup till it jellies and is a yellow color; try the 
syrup by putting some to cool; it must not be too stiff; the syrup 
need not cover the oranges, but they must be turned, so that each 
part gets thoroughly done. 



FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 259 

PRESERVED PINE-APPLE. 

Pare, cut into slices, take out the core of each one, and weigh, 
allowing pound for pound of sugar and fruit; put in alternate 
layers in the kettle and pour in water, allowing i cup to each pound 
of sugar; heat to a boil; take out the pine-apple and spread upon 
dishes in the sun; boil and skim the syrup ^ hour; return the 
pine-apple to the kettle and boil fifteen minutes; take it out, pack 
in Avide-mouth jars, pour on the scalding syrup ; cover to keep in 
the heat, and, when cold, tie up, first putting brandied tissue-paper 
upon the top. 

PRESERVED PLUMS OR CHERRIES. 

Make a syrup of clean, brown sugar, and clarify it ; when per- 
fectly clear and boiling hot, pour it over the plums, having picked 
out all the unsound ones and stems ; let them remain in the syrup 
2 days then drain it ofT; make it boiling hot, skim it, and pour it 
over again ; let them remain another day or two, then put them 
into a preserving kettle over the fire, and simmer gently until the 
syrup is reduced, and thick or rich; I pound sugar to each pound of 
plums ; small damsons are very fine preserved, as are cherries, or 
any other ripe fruit ; clarify the syrup, and when boiling hot, put 
in the plums; let them boil very gently until they are cooked, and 
the syrup rich ; put them in pots or jars the next day ; secure as 
directed. 

If the syrup in which plums are to be preserved is very hot when 
they are dropped into it, they will cook so quickly that they will 
not lose their shape, and if put into cans with care will repay one 
for taking the trouble. 

PURPLE PLUMS PRESERVED. 

Take an equal weight of fruit and nice sugar ; take a clean stone 
jar and fill it with the fruit and sugar in layers ; cover them and set 
the jar in a kettle of water over the fire ; let them stand in the 
boiling water all day, filling up the kettle as the water boils away; 
if at any time they seem likely to ferment, repeat this process ; it 
is a simple and excellent way of preserving plums. 



260 FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 

PRESERVED PEARS. 

Pare them very thin, and simmer in a thin syrup ; let them He a 
day or two ; make the syrup richer and simmer again ; repeat this 
till they are clear; then drain and dry them in the sun or a cool 
oven a little time ; or they may be kept in the syrup and dried as 
wanted, which makes them richer. 

BRANDY PEACHES. 

Drop the peaches in hot water, let them remain till the skin can 
be stripped off ; make a thin syrup, and let it cover the fruit ; boil 
the fruit till they can be pierced with a straw; take it out, make a 
very rich syrup, and add, after it is taken from the fire, and while it 
is still hot, an equal quantity of brandy ; pour this, while it is still 
warm, over the peaches in the jar ; they must be covered with it. 

PEACH PRESERVES. 

Take any nice peaches that will not cook to pieces, pare them 
and take out the pits ; take their weight in sugar, or, if they are to 
be canned, ^ pound sugar to each pound of fruit, and i coffeecup 
water to each pound of sugar. Boil part of the pits in the water 
until the flavor is extracted, then remove the pits ; add about as 
much water as has evaporated, then add the sugar; skim thor- 
oughly, then add a small quantity of fruit at a time, cook slowly for 
about lo minutes, skim out into a jar, then add more. When all 
are done, pour the boiling syrup over them. The next day drain 
off the syrup and boil again and pour back ; do the same for 2 or 3 
days, then make them air-tight with paper as directed for jellies; 
or, if to be sealed in cans, the first boiling is sufficient. Cling-stone 
peaches are preserved the same way, whole, except that they must 
be cooked longer. 

PERSIMMON PRESERVES. 

Select firm, ripe persimmons, and take the equivalent of their 
weight in sugar. Let the persimmons lie in cold water 12 hours. 
Put them on the fire in enough water to cover them and stew 
gently until they are tender. Take them out with a split spoon 



FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 261 

and spread them out to become cool and firm. Make a syrup by- 
adding I cup cold water to each pound of sugar and boihng 
until clear, skimming constantly. When clear, put in the persim- 
mons and cook 10 minutes. Take them out, spread again upon 
dishes and set these in the sun. Add the juice and peel of 2 
lemons to the syrup, boil it thick, return the persimmons to it, 
cook 20 minutes more, pour into glass jars. Seal when cold. 

QUINCE PRESERVES. 

Pare and core the quinces, and cut into halves or quarters, as 
suits the size of your jars; let them stand over night in enough 
cold water to cover them ; in the morning put them in the kettle 
with the same water and let them cook gently until you can just 
stick a fork in them ; take the fruit out with a skimmer, weigh it, 
and to each pound of fruit allow i pound sugar; put the fruit 
and sugar into the kettle, with enough of the water to make a good 
syrup, and let them boil gently until they are clear ; take out care- 
fully with the skimmer and put into the jars; fill the jars to the top 
with the syrup. If there is a large quantity of fruit, and the kettle 
\s not large, it is best to put the fruit in the syrup a little at a time. 

STRAWBERRV PRESERVES. 

Put 2 pounds sugar in a bright tin pan over a kettle of boiling 
water, and pour into it ^ pint boiling water ; when the sugar is 
dissolved and hot, put in fruit, and then place the pan directly on 
the stove or range; let boil 10 minutes or longer if the fruit is not 
clear, gently (or the berries will be broken) take up with a small 
strainer, and keep hot while the syrup is boiled down until thick 
and rich ; drain off the thin syrup from the cans, and pour the rich 
syrup ovpr the berries to fill, and screw down the tops immediately ; 
the thin syrup p'oured off may be brought to boiling, and then 
bottled and sealed, to be used for sauces and drinks. 

PRESERVED GREEN TOMATOES. 

Eight pounds small, green tomatoes ; pierce each with a fork ; 
7 pounds sugar, juice of 4 lemons, i ounce ginger and mace mixed ; 



262 FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 

heat all together slowly and boil until the fruit is clear ; remove 
from kettle with skimmer and spread upon dishes to cool ; boil the 
syrup thick ; put the fruit in jars and cover with hot syrup. 

PRESERVED RIPE TOMATOES. 

Seven pounds round yellow or c^^ tomatoes, peeled, 7 pounds 
sugar, juice of 3 lemons ; let them stand together over night, drain 
off the syrup and boil it, skimming well ; put in the tomatoes, and 
boil gently 20 minutes ; take out the fruit with a perforated skim- 
mer and spread upon dishes ; boil the syrup down until it thickens, 
adding, just before taking it up, the juice of the 3 lemons ; put the 
fruit into the jars and fill up with hot syrup. When cold seal up. 

CANDIED LEMON PEEL. 

Twelve fresh, thick-skinned lemons, 4 pounds loaf sugar, a 
little powdered alum, 3 cups clear water ; cut the peel from the 
lemons in long, thin strips, and lay in strong salt and water all 
night ; wash them in 3 waters next morning, and boil them until 
tender in soft water; they should be almost translucent, but not so 
soft as to break ; dissolve a little alum — about ^2 teaspoon, when 
powdered — in enough cold water to cover the peel, and let it lie in 
it for 2 hours; by this time the syrup should be ready; stir the 
sugar into 3 cups waiter, add the strained juice of 3 lemons and 
boil it until it "ropes" from the end of the spoon; put the lemon 
peels into this, simmer gently yi hour ; take them out and spread 
upon a sieve ; shake, not hard, but often, tossing up the peels now 
and then, until they are almost dry ; sift granulated sugar over 
them and layout upon a table spread with a clean cloth ; admit the 
air freely, and, when perfectly dry, pack in a glass jar. 



SPICED FRUITS. 



SPICED BLACKBERRIES. 

To 6 pints fruit take 23^ pints sugar, i]^, pints vinegar, ^^ 
ounce cinnamon, ground, yi ounce cloves, ^ ounce allspice, a little 



FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 263 

mace broken in small pieces ; boil the sugar and vinegar together, 
with the spices, putting these last into muslin bags* then put in 
the berries and let them scald, not boil. 



SPICED CURRANTS. 

Four quarts ripe currants, 3 pounds brown sugar, i pint cider 
vinegar, i tablespoon each of allspice and cloves, and a little nutmeg 
and cinnamon ; boil i hour, stirring occasionally. 

SPICED GOOSEBERRIES. 

Six quarts gooseberries, ripe or green, 9 pounds sugar, i pint 
vinegar, not too strong, i tablespoon each of cinnamon, cloves and 
allspice; put the berries in the kettle with ^ the sugar and a little 
water; boil i^ hours; when nearly done, add the rest of the 
sugar ; set it off the fire and add the spices and vinegar. 

SPICED GRAPES. 

Take the pulp from the fruit, preserving the skins; boil the 
pulp and run through a colander to get out the seeds, then add the 
skins to the strained pulp and boil with the sugar, vinegar and 
spices ; to every 7 pounds grapes use 4^4. pounds sugar, i pint good 
vinegar; spice quite highly with ground cloves and allspice, with a 
little cinnamon. 

SPICED PEACHES. 

Five pounds peaches, 2 of brown sugar, i quart vinegar, i ounce 
each of cinnamon, cloves, and mace; wipe the peaches and boil 
until done in the vinegar and sugar, then take out, put in spices, 
boil well and pour over. 

SPICED PLUMS. 

Spiced plums are delicious with cold meat ; cook the plums in a 
little water until they are soft ; then, so far as possible, remove the 
stones, sweeten and spice to your taste, and boil until thick; put in 
large-mouthed bottles and seal, or can in the usual way. 



264 FRUITS AND FRUIT DISHES. 

SPICED PLUMS, NO. 2. 

Make a syrup, allowing i pound sugar to i of plums, and to 
each 3 pounds sugar I scant pint vinegar ; allow i ounce each of 
ground cinnamon, cloves, mace and allspice to i peck plums ; prick 
the plums; add the spices to the syrup, and pour, boiling, over the 
plums; let these stand 3 days; then skim them out, and boil down 
the syrup until it Is quite thick, and pour hot over the plums in the 
jar in which they are to be kept ; cover closely. 

SPICED NUTMEG MELON. 

Select melons not quite ripe ; open, scrape out the seeds, peel 
and slice ; put the fruit in a stone jar, and, for 5 pounds fruit take I 
quart vinegar and 2^ pounds sugar; scald vinegar and sugar 
together, pour over the fruit ; scald the syrup and pour over the 
fruit for 8 successive days ; on the 9th add i ounce stick cinnamon, 
I of whole cloves, and i of allspice; scald fruit, vinegar and spices 
together, and seal up in jars. This pickle should stand 2 or 3 
months before using. Blue plums are very nice prepared in this 
way. 

See also " Sweet Pickles " in chapter on pickles. 




A FISHER MAID OF BRITTANY. 



CHARTKR XI. 



FISH AND SHELL FISH. 



Fish, to be eatable, should be perfectly fresh. Nothing else in 
the line of food deteriorates so rapidly, especially the white fish — 
those that are nearly free of oil, like cod, cusk, etc. Most of the 
oil in this class centres in the liver. Salmon, mackerel, etc., have it 
distributed throughout the body, which gives a higher and richer 
flavor, and at the same time tends to preserve the fish. People who 
do not live near the seashore do not get that delicious flavor which 
fish just caught possess. If the fish is kept on ice until used, it will 
retain much of its freshness ; let it once get heated and nothing 
will bring back the delicate flavor. Fresh fish will be firm, and the 
skin and scales bright. When fish looks dim and limp, do not buy 
it. Fish should be washed quickly in only one (cold) water, and 
should not be allowed to stand in it. If it is cut up before cook- 
ing, wash while whole, else much of the flavor will be lost. For 
frying, the fat should be deep enough to cover the article, and yet 
have it float from the bottom. Unless one cooks great quantities 
of fish in this way it is not necessary to have a separate pot of fat 
for this kind of frying. The same pot, with proper care, will 
answer for chops, cutlets, muflins, potatoes, croquettes, etc. All 
the cold fish left from any mode of cooking can be utilized in mak- 
ing delicious salads, croquettes and escallops. 

BAKED FISH. 

As for the boiled fish, a general rule that will cover all kinds of 
baked fish is herewith given : A fish weighing about 5 pounds ; 3 
large, or 5 small crackers, ]^ pound salt pork, 2 tablespoons salt, 
^^ teaspoon pepper, y^ tablespoon chopped parsley, 2 tablespoons 
flour. If the fish has not already been scraped free of scales, 
scrape and wash clean ; then rub into it i tablespoon salt ; roll the 
crackers very fine, and add to them the parsley, i tablespoon 

265 



266 FISH AND SHELL FISH. 

chopped pork, jE^ the pepper, ^ tablespoon salt, and cold water to 
moisten well; put this into the body of the fish, and fasten together 
with a skewer; butter a tin sheet and put it into a baking-pan; cut 
gashes across the fish, about )^ inch deep and 2 inches long ; cut 
the remainder of the pork into strips, and put these into the 
gashes ; now put the fish into the baking-pan, and dredge well with 
salt, pepper, and flour ; cover the bottom of the pan with hot water, 
and put into a rather hot oven; bake i hour, basting often with 
the gravy in the pan, and dredging each time with salt, pepper and 
flour; the water in the pan must often be renewed, as the bottom 
is simply to be covered with it each time ; the fish should be basted 
every 15 minutes; when it is cooked, lift from the pan on to the 
tin sheet, and slide it carefully into the centre of the dish on which 
it is to be served ; pour around it Hollandaise sauce, tomato sauce, 
or any kind you like ; garnish with parsley. 

BROILED FISH. 

Bluefish, young cod, mackerel, salmon, large trout, and all other 
fish, when they weigh between ^ pound and 4 pounds, are nice for 
broiling. When smaller or larger they are not so good. Always 
use a double broiler, which, before putting the fish into it, rub with 
either butter or a piece of salt pork. This prevents sticking. The 
thickness of the fish will have to be the guide in broiling. A blue- 
fish weighing 4 pounds will take from 20 minutes to ^ hour to 
cook. Many cooks brown the fish handsomely over the coals and 
then put it into the oven to finish broiling. Where the fish is very 
thick, this is a good plan. If the fish is taken from the broiler to 
be put into the oven, it should be slipped on to a tin sheet, that it 
may slide easily into the platter at serving time; for nothing so 
mars a dish of fish as to have it come to the table broken. In 
broiling, the inside should be exposed to the fire first, and then the 
skin. Great care must be taken that the skin does not burn. 
Mackerel will broil in from 12 to 20 minutes, young cod, in 
from 20 to 30 minutes, bluefish, in from 20 to 30 minutes, 
salmon, in from 12 to 20 minutes, and whitcfish, bass, mullet, etc., in 
about 18 minutes. All kinds of broiled fish can be served 



FISH AND SHELL FISH. 26/ 

with a seasoning of salt, pepper, and butter, or with any of the fol- 
lowing sauces: bcurre tioir, inaitre d' hotel, Tartare, sharp, tomato, 
and curry. ■ Always, when possible, garnish with parsley or some- 
thing else green. 

BOILED FISH. 

A general rule for boiling fish, which will hold good for all kinds, 
and thus save a great deal of time and space, is this : Any fresh fish, 
weighing from 4 to 6 pounds, should be first washed in cold water and 
then put in boiling water enough to cover it, containing i tablespoon 
salt. Simmer gently ^ hour ; then take up. A fish kettle is a great 
convenience, and it can be used also for boiling hams. When you do 
not have a fish kettle, keep a piece of strong white cotton cloth, in 
which pin the fish before putting into the boiling water. This will 
hold it in shape. Hard boiling will break the fish, and, of course, 
there will be great waste, besides the dish not looking so handsome 
and appetizing. There should be a gentle bubbling of the water, 
and nothing more, all the time the fish is in it. A fish weighing 
more than 6 pounds should be cooked 5 minutes longer for every 
additional 2 pounds. Boiled fish can be served with a great variety 
of sauces. After you have learned to make them, which is a sim- 
ple matter, if you cannot get a variety of fish you will not miss it 
particularly, the sauce and mode of serving doing much to change 
the whole character of the dish. Many people put a tablespoon of 
vinegar in the water in which the fish is boiled. The fish flakes a 
little more readily for it. Small fish, like trout, require from 4 to 8 
minutes to cook. They are, however, much better baked, broiled, 
or fried. 

Steamed fish is much superior to boiled, but the ordinary con- 
veniences in private houses do not admit of the possibility of 
enjoying this delicious way of cooking it. 

COURT BOULLION. 

This preparation gives boiled fish a better flavor than cooking 
in clear water does. Many cooks use wine in it, but there is no 
necessity for it. Four quarts water, I onion, I slice carrot, 2 cloves, 2 



268 FISH AND SHELL FISH. 

tablespoons salt, i teaspoon pepper, i tablespoon vinegar, tht 
juice of 3^ lemon, and a bouquet of sweet herbs are used. Tie the 
onion, carrot, cloves, and herbs in a piece of muslin, and put in the 
water with the other ingredients. Cover and boil slowly for i hour. 
Then put in the fish and cook as directed for plain boiling. 

FRIED FISH. 

All small fish, like brook trout, smelts, perch, etc., are the best 
fried ; they are often called pan-fish for this reason ; they should 
be cleaned, washed and drained, then well salted, and rolled in flour 
and Indian meal {}4 of each) which has been thoroughly mixed and 
salted ; for every 4 pounds fish have }4 pound salt pork, cut in thin 
slices, and fried a crisp brown ; take the pork from the pan and put 
the fish in, having only enough to cover the bottom ; fry brown on 
one side ; turn and fry the other side ; serve on a hot dish, wath the 
salt pork as a garnish ; great care mu st be taken that the pork or 
fat does not burn, and yet to have it hot enough to brown quickly ; 
cod, haddock, cusk, and halibut are all cut in handsome slices and 
fried in this manner ; or, the slices can be well seasoned with salt 
and pepper, dipped in beaten egg, rolled in bread or cracker crumbs, 
and fried in boiling fat enough to cover ; this method gives the 
handsomer dish, but the first the more savory ; when Indian meal is 
not liked, all flour can be used; serve very hot; any kind of fried 
fish can be served with bcurre iioir, but this is particularly nice for 
that which is fried without pork ; when the cooked fish is placed in 
the dish, pour the butter over it, garnish with parsley and serve. 

STEWED FISH. 

Six pounds of any kind of fish, large or small ; 3 large pints 
water, ^ pound pork, or ^ cup butter ; 2 large onions, 3 table- 
spoons flour, salt and pepper to taste ; cut the heads from the fish, 
and cut out all the bones ; put the heads and bones on to boil in 
the 3 pints water; cook gently yz hour; in the meanwhile cut the 
pork in slices and fry brown ; cut the onions in slices and fry in the 
pork fat ; stir the dry flour into the onion and fat and cook 3 min- 
utes, stirring all the time ; now pour over this the water in which 



FISH AND SHELL FISH. 269 

the bones have been cooking and simmer 10 minutes; have the fish 
cut in pieces about 3 inches square ; season well with salt and 
pepper and place in the stewpan ; season the sauce with salt and 
pepper and strain on the fish ; cover tight and simmer 20 minutes; 
a bouquet of sweet herbs, simmered with the bones, is an improve- 
ment ; taste to see if the sauce is seasoned enough, and dish on a 
large platter; garnish with potato balls and parsley; the potato 
balls are cut from the raw potatoes with a vegetable scoop, and 
boiled 10 minutes in salted water; put them in little heaps around 
the dish. 

SCALLOPED FISH. 

Pick any cold fresh fish, or salt codfish, left from the dinner, 
into fine bits, carefully removing all the bones. Take i pint milk 
in a suitable dish, and place it in a sauce-pan of boiling water; put 
into it a few slices of onion, cut very fine, a sprig of parsley minced 
fine, add a piece of butter as large as an egg, a pinch of salt, a 
sprinkle of white pepper, then stir in 2 tablespoons corn-starch, or 
flour, rubbed in a little cold milk; let all boil up and remove from 
the fire ; take a dish you wish to serve it in, butter the sides and 
bottom ; put first a layer of the minced fish, then a layer of the 
cream, then sprinkle over that some cracker or bread-crumbs; then 
a layer of fish again, and so on, until the dish is full ; spread cracker 
or bread-crumbs last on the top, to prevent the milk from scorch- 
ing, and bake. This is a very, good way to use up cold fish, mak- 
ing a nice breakfast dish, or a side-dish for dinner. 

FISH CAKES. 

One pint salt codfish picked very fine, 2 pints whole, raw, 
peeled potatoes; put together in cold water and boil till the 
potatoes are thoroughly cooked ; remove from the fire and drain 
off all the water; mash with potato masher, add piece of butter 
size of an egg, 2 well-beaten eggs and a little pepper; mix well 
with a wooden spoon ; have a frying pan with boiling lard or drip- 
pings into which drop a spoon of mixture and fry brown ; do not 
freshen the fish before boiling with potatoes, and do not mold the 
cakes but drop from spoon. 



2/0 FISH AND SHELL FISH. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Fry some thin slices of fat pork in a saucepan until nicely- 
browned ; now cut the pork into small pieces and put it with the 
drippings in which it was fried into a kettle ; over this put a layer 
of thinly sliced onions; then a layer of any nice fresh fish cut in 
pieces 2 or 3 inches square, the skin and bones having been 
previously removed ; add wdiite and cayenne pepper and salt to 
taste, and, if you like, minced parsley or curled cress ; on this put a 
layer of split Boston or milk crackers, previously soaked until moist, 
not ready to fall to pieces, in hot water or milk ; proceed in the 
same order with the next layers omitting the pork; repeat accord- 
ing to quantity required, cover with cold water and let simmer 
until done, which will require nearly an hour ; the last layer 
should be of crackers; i cup sweet cream, into which you have 
stirred i scant tablespoon flour, will improve your chowder; 
some prefer to put a layer of sliced raw potatoes between the 
onions and fish. 

PICKLED FISH. 

Spice the vinegar, cooking the spices in a bag; when hot put the 
fish in and let it boil slowly until tender ; take out carefully and 
lay away in a stone jar. 

FISH PIE. 

Take the remains of any fish, flake it, and free it from bone and 
skin, put it in a pie dish, season with pepper and salt and a little 
melted butter, if handy ; if not, use bits of butter ; cover the whole 
v/ith a layer of smoothly mashed potatoes, and set it in the oven 
to heat through ; if the potatoes are not browned enough pass a 
hot salamander over the top, which may also be brushed over with 
beaten up yolk of egg before putting it into the oven. 

POTTED FISH. 

Let the fish lie in salt water for several hours, then cut in slices 
and place in a jar with cloves, allspice, cinnamon, pepper and salt, 
sprinkle over the top a little flour and butter, cover close, and bake 



FISH AND SHELL FISH. 2/1 

5 hours, take out of the jar and press in a bowl. Cut in shces 
when cold and serve with jelly. 

FISH rUDDING. 

Take 3 pounds of any fish suitable for boiling. Have 2 cups 
milk scalding hot, and put to it a good-sized piece of butter into 
which you have rubbed I large tablespoon flour. Lay the fish into 
the milk after stirring in the butter and flour, then add 2 table- 
spoons cold milk, salt and pepper, with a very slight sprinkling of 
nutmeg. Pour into a buttered pudding-dish and bake I hour in a 
good oven. Serve with caper sauce. 

CATFISH. 

Take a large catfish and cut it up into pieces 2 inches in length 
and I inch thick. Beat up 3 eggs with a little salt and pepper and 
I teaspoon Worcestershire ; dip the fish in the egg-batter, and roll 
in corn meal or bread crumbs. Fry a deep brown, garnish with 
lemon, parsley, or celery tops, and send to table with a cucumber 
salad. 

SCALLOPED BLOATER. 

Flake 2 or 3 salted herrings, free from bone and skin, and lay a 
layer of the herring in a tin baking-dish ; put in some pepper corns 
and sprinkle finely chopped onion over it, and then a layer of 
bread crumbs ; repeat these layers till the dish is full, finishing off 
with bread crumbs and a few bits of butter or good dripping. Bake 
in a moderate oven. A little lemon-juice is a great improvement. 

BROILED SALT CODFISH. 

Cut Yi small codfish into medium sized square pieces, split 
them in two and soak them over night in cold water. Drain and 
dry them in a napkin next morning. Rub a little butter over each 
piece and broil them. Place them on a platter and pour a little 
melted butter over them. 

Drawn butter is sometimes served with this dish. It should be 
very smooth looking and have a starchy appearance. Divide 3 



272 FISH AND SHELL FISH. 

ounces butter into little balls. Dredge them with flour. Put ]^ of 
them into a saucepan, and when they begin to melt whisk to a 
smooth consistency. Now add i more of the floured balls and 
whisk thoroughly until incorporated with the first. Repeat this 
process until all are used When smooth and thick stir in i tea- 
spoon lemon-juice, and, if liked, a little chopped parsley. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

Pick the fish fine, and freshen. Boil potatoes and mash them ; 
mix fish and potatoes together while potatoes are hot, taking 7^ 
potatoes and yi^ fish. Put in plenty of butter ; make into balls, 
and fry in hot lard. 

DROPPED FISH BALLS. 

One pint raw fish, 2 heaping pints pared potatoes (let the 
potatoes be under medium size), 2 eggs, butter the size of i egg, and 
a little pepper; pick the fish very fine, and measure it lightly in the 
bowl; put the potatoes into the boiler, and the fish on top of them; 
then cover with boiling water, and boil ^ hour ; drain off all the 
water, and mash fish and potatoes together until fine and light ; 
then add the butter and pepper, and the egg, well-beaten ; have a 
deep kettle of boiling fat ; dip a tablespoon in it, and then take up a 
spoonful of the mixture, having care to get it into as good shape as 
possible; drop into the boiling fat, and cook until brown, which 
should be in 2 minutes ; be careful not to crowd the balls, and also 
that the fat is hot enough ; the spoon should be dipped in the fat 
every time you take a spoonful of the mixture. These balls are 
delicious. 

BOILED COD WITH LOBSTER SAUCE. 

Boil the fish as directed (see " Boiled Fish "), and, when done, 
carefully remove the skin from one side; then turn the fish over on 
to the dish on which it is to be served, skin side up; remove the 
skin from this side ; wipe the dish witli a damp cloth ; pour a few 
spoons of the sauce over the fish, and the remainder around it; 
garnish with parsley, and serve. This is a handsome dish. For 
lobster sauce see " Sauces.'' 



FISH AND SHELL FISH. 



CASSEROLE OF COD. 



One pound cod, I dozen oysters, 2 ounces butter, ^ pint milk, 
I tablespoon flour; pull the fish into flakes; make a sauce of the 
flour, butter, and milk, and the liquor of the oysters ; season with 
pepper and salt, add the fish, and boil once; stir in the oysters, and 
fill the casserole. See " Casserole of Rice" 

MATELOTE OF CODFISH. 

Cut ofT the head of a codfish weighing 5 pounds; remove bones 
from the fish, and fill it with a dressing made of ^ pint oysters, i 
scant pint bread-crumbs, Y^ teaspoon pepper, 2 teaspoons salt, 2 
tablespoons butter. Vz onion, i ^^a^ and ^2 tablespoon chopped 
parsley; place 5 slices pork both under and over the fish; boil the 
bones in I pint water, and pour this around the fish ; bake i hour 
and baste often with gravy and butter ; have a bouquet in the 
corner of the baking-pan ; make a gravy and pour around the fish ; 
then garnish with fried smelts. 

COLD BOILED FISH A LA VINAIGRETTE. 

If the fish is whole take off the head and skin, and then place it 
in the center of a dish; have 2 cold hard-boiled eggs, and cut fine 
with a silver knife or spoon (steel turns the eggs black); sprinkle 
the fish with this, and garnish either with small lettuce-leaves, 
water-cresses, or cold boiled potatoes or beets cut in slices ; place 
tastefully around the dish, with here and there a sprig of parsley; 
serve the vinaigrette sauce in a separate dish ; help to the garnish 
when the fish is served, and pour i spoon of the sauce over the 
fish as you serve it. This makes a nice dish for tea in summer, and 
takes the place of a salad, as it is, in fact, a kind of salad. 

If the fish is left from the dinner, and is broken, pick free froni' 
skin and bones, heap it lightly in the center of the dish, sprinkle' 
the sauce over it, and set away in a cool place until tea-time ; then 
add the garnish, and serve as before. Many people prefer the latter 
method, as the fish is seasoned better and more easily served ; the 
cold fish remaining from a bake or broil can be served in the same 

18 



274 FISH AND SHELL FISH. 

manner. This same dish can be served with a sauce piquante or 
Tartare sauce, for a change. 

FRIED EELS. 

After cleaning the eels well, cut them in pieces 2 inches long; 
wash them and wipe them dry; roll them in wheat flour or rolled 
cracker, and fry as directed for other fish, in hot lard or beef drip« 
ping, salted ; they should be browned all over, and thoroughly done. 
Eels are sometimes dipped in batter and then fried, or into egg and 
bread-crumbs. Serve with crisped parsley. 

EEL PATTIES. 

Take 3 medium-sized eels and cut them up into inch pieces ; 
put them in a stew-pan, add salt, and cover them with cold water; 
when the water comes to a boil take them off the fire, wash them in 
cold water, scrape off any fat that may adhere, return them to the 
stew-pan with just enough water to cover them, and i blade mace, 
I bay-leaf, a few whole peppers, a few sprigs parsley, and i lemon 
cut into slices ; stew gently until the fish will separate from the 
bone ; remove the fish from the broth, pick it into small pieces, and 
set them aside ; reduce the broth a little, strain, and thicken with 
flour and butter; return the fish to the broth, simmer a moment, 
fill your patties, and serve; make patty-shells as directed for oyster 
patties. 

POTTED EELS. 

After cleaning your eels and cutting off their heads, cut them 
into pieces about 2 inches long; put them into a brown earthen 
pot, to which, if there is not an earthen cover, have a tin one; 
season them with salt, pepper, allspice, and a few sprigs of parsley 
and thyme; pour over the eels a little more vinegar and water than 
will cover them ; put on the lid and set the pot into a slow oven ; 
they should not be too much done ; as soon as the flesh will come 
away from the bones they are done enough. Herrings may be 
potted in the same way. 



FISH AND SHELL FISH. 2/$ 

EELS A LA TARTARE. 

Cut the eels into pieces about 4 inches long. Cover them with 
boiling water in which let them stand 5 minutes, and then drain 
them. Now dip in beaten egg which has been well salted and 
peppered, then in bread or cracker crumbs. Fry in boiling fat for 
5 minutes. Have Tartare sauce spread in the center of a cold 
dish. Place the fried eels in a circle on this ; garnish with parsley, 
and serve. 

FLOUNDERS. 

Lay the fish on a board, cut off head, fins, and tail and scrape 
off the skin. Quarter the fish lengthwise, and take out the bone 
leaving 4 strips of the flesh. Cut these into pieces about 3 inches 
each in length, dip these first into beaten egg, and then roll in 
cracker crumbs. Fry in boiling lard or dripping, having it as hot 
as would be required for doughnuts. Drain dry of all fat in a col- 
ander on soft white or tissue paper. Serve on a white napkin laid 
on a very hot dish, and garnish with bits of parsley and with sliced 
lemon. Pass quarters of lemon with the fish, as a few drops of the 
juice squeezed over it greatly improves the taste. This is a capital 
imitation of the famous English sole. 

BROILED HALIBUT. 

Season the slices with salt and pepper, and lay them in melted 
butter for }4 hour, having them well covered on both sides. Roll 
in flour and broil for 12 minutes over a clear fire. Serve on a hot 
dish, garnishing with parsley and slices of lemon. The slices of hal- 
ibut should be about i inch thick, and for each pound there should 
be 3 tablespoons butter. 

BROILED HALIBUT WITH MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER. 

Butter both sides of the broiler. Season the slices of halibut 
with salt and pepper, place them in the broiler and cook over clear 
coals for 12 minutes, turning frequently. Place on a hot dish, and 
spread on them the sauce, using i spoon to each pound. Garnish 
with parsley. 



2/6 FISH AND SHELL FISH. 

BAKED HALIBUT. 

Take a piece of halibut weighing about 4 pounds. Lay it in 
salt and water for i hour before cooking. Wipe dry, score it 
across the top with a sharp knife and lay it in a dripping-pan. 
Bake about i hour in a steady oven and baste several times with 
hot water and melted butter. When it is done lay it on a hot dish, 
strain the gravy left in the pan and boil up after adding 2 teaspoons 
butter rubbed smooth with 2 tablespoons browned flour. Just 
before taking from the fire add i tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 
and the juice of i lemon. Pour part of the gravy over the fish and 
pass the rest in a gravy boat. 

ESCALLOPED HALIBUT. 

Put a halibut steak, weighing about i pound, in the middle of 
a pan; sprinkle it with salt and a little onion, chopped fine; then 
spread with tomato enough to cover the fish ; then cover with 
bread crumbs ; add a little butter and salt ; then garnish the dish 
with more tomatoes, and bake 20 minutes; better to bake on dish 
to serve on. 

BAKED HADDOCK. 

Rub i^ ounces bread crumbs and i ounce dripping well 
together ; i dessert spoon chopped parsley, i onion, a little salt and 
pepper; bind all together with i tablespoon milk; stuff the had- 
dock with the mixture, sew it up neatly and put it into a baking- 
pan ; brush it over with melted drippings or butter ; sprinkle it 
with I ounce bread crumbs and bake in a moderate oven, basting it 
occasionally. 

STEWED HADDOCK. 

Place the haddock in a pan of salted water and simmer i hour; 
lay the fish, minus the head, on a platter; pour over it drawn but- 
ter ; then spread with mashed potatoes enough to cover it nicely ; 
over the potatoes spread the whites of 4 eggs , put in the oven and 
bake a light brown. 



FISH AND SHELL FISH. 27/ 



MACKEREL BALLS. 

Let the fish stand in the water over night ; in the morning pour 
some boiling water over it ; pick it carefully from the bones, and 
add an equal quantity of cold mashed potatoes, 2 beaten eggs and 
a pinch of pepper ; shape into balls and fry in hot butter. 

SALT MACKEREL. 

Soak for a day or two, after taking out of the brine, in cold 
water or buttermilk ; lay in a pan with the flesh side down, and 
change the water occasionally. Just before cooking, lay it into a 
shallow dish and cover with hot milk, which removes the strong 
taste ; take it out of the milk and wipe dry with a napkin ; then 
lay on a gridiron and broil the same as fresh fish and serve with 
sauce with lemon-juice. 

BOILED SALT MACKEREL. 

Wash and clean off all the brine and salt ; put it to soak with 
the meat side down, in cold water over night ; in the morning rinse 
it in I or 2 waters; wrap each up in a cloth and put it into a kettle 
with considerable water, which should be cold , cook about 30 
minutes ; take it carefully from the cloth, take out the back bones 
and pour over a little melted butter and cream ; add a light sprinkle 
of pepper; or make a cream sauce like the following: 

Heat I small cup milk to scalding; stir into it i teaspoon corn- 
starch, wet up with a little water; when this thickens, add 2 table- 
spoons butter, pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, to taste; beat an 
egg light, pour the sauce gradually over it, put the mixture again 
over the fire, and stir i minute, not more; pour upon the fish, and 
serve with some slices of lemon, or a few sprigs of parsley or water- 
cresses, on the dish as a garnish. 

BAKED SALT MACKEREL. 

When the mackerel have soaked over night, put them in a pan 
and pour on boiling water enough to cover; let them stand 2 
minutes, then drain them off and put them in a pan with a few 



2/8 FISH AND SHELL FISH. 

lumps of butter; pour on ^ teacup sweet cream, or rich milk, and 
a little pepper; set in the oven and let it bake a little until brown. 

FRIED SALT MACKEREL. 

Select as many salt mackerel as required ; wash and cleanse them 
well, then put them to soak all day in co/d water, changing them every 
2 hours: then put them into fresh water just before retiring; in 
the morning drain off the water, wipe them dry, roll them in flour, 
and fry in a little butter on a hot, thick-bottom frying-pan. Serve 
with a little melted butter poured over, and garnish with a little 
parsley. 

BOILED FRESH MACKEREL. 

Fresh mackerel are cooked in water salted, and a little vinegar 
added; with this exception, they can be served in the same way as 
the salt mackerel. Broiled ones are very nice with the same cream 
sauce, or you can substitute egg sauce. 

SALMON. 

A delicious way to cook salmon is to boil it and serve with a 
gravy made of butter, flour, pepper, salt, and plenty of oysters; 
cook the oysters in a very little water, then stir into the sauce. You 
may prepare canned salmon in this way. 

SALMON BALLS. 

Take some canned salmon, drain it from the oil, and mince 
very fine; take an equal proportion of mashed potato, and mix 
thoroughly with the fish, binding it with a little butter and a well- 
beaten egg; season highly, and roll into balls; fry them in boiling 
fat as doughnuts ; drain well, and serve very hot. 

SALMON CROQUETTES. 

Boil }4 pint milk, thicken with i tablespoon flour, and let it 
become cold ; mince i pound canned salmon or i pound fresh 
salmon; when very fine add i saltspoon white pepper; moisten the 
minced salmon with the boiled milk, work to a paste, and add 



FISH AND SHELL FISH. 279 

bread-crumbs if too thin* when wanted, shape into cakes, rolls or 
cones, dip in egg and crumbs, and fry in hot fat. 

SALMON SCALLOPS. 

One can salmon, i egg, beaten light, i cup bread-crumbs, }4 cup 
good drawn butter, minced parsley, pepper and salt ; open the can 
some hours before the salmon is to be used ; pick the fish fine, 
removing all bits of bone or skin ; stir in the egg and seasoning, and 
beat the fish into the hot drawn butter ; remove from the fire and fill 
buttered scallop-shells or small pans with the salmon, sprinkle 
thickly with crumbs, dot with bits of butter, and brown lightly in 
the oven. Eat from the shells. 

BAKED SHAD. 

Make a dressing of bread-crumbs, butter, pepper, and salt, 
worked to a paste ; fill the shad with the mixture, sew it up, and 
place it lengthwise in a baking-pan with a little water and i ounce 
butter. Fill the space between the fish and the sides of the pan 
with slices of raw potatoes }( inch thick, and serve fish and potatoes 
together ; add i spoon Barlow's prepared flour to the gravy, and serve. 

SHAD ROE. 

Drop into boiling water, and cook gently for 20 minutes ; then 
take from the fire and drain ; butter a tin plate, and lay the drained 
roe upon it ; dredge well with salt and pepper, and spread soft 
butter over it; then dredge thickly with flour; cook in the oven 
for I/3 hour, basting frequently with salt, pepper, flour, butter and 
water. 

FRIED SHRIMPS. 

Shell and heat gently in a pan with a little butter, until the 
butter is melted and the shrimps heated through ; season with 
pepper, and send to the table encircled by thin slices of limes. 

A PRETTY WAY TO SERVE SMELTS. 

The French have a pretty manner of serving smelts ; after frying 
them in the usual way, a little skewer 4 inches long, silver-plated or 



280 FISH AND SHELL FISH. 

of polished wire, is run through 2 or 3 of the smelts, running It 
carefully through the eyes; a slice of lemon is then put on top of 
each skewerful, which is served as a portion for i person. 

STURGEON. 

There are few people so poor that they will consent to eat stur- 
geon, yet this fish, if properly cooked, affords, it is said, a luxurious 
meal. Get a few slices, moderately thick, put them in a pot or pan 
of water, and parboil them to get rid of the oil ; then roll in crumbs 
of cracker and egg, just as you would a veal cutlet, and fry; this 
makes a veal cutlet that beats the original by far, and you are sure 
that it is " full 6 weeks old," as the butcher always certifies in 
regard to the veal. 

FRIED BROOK TROUT. 

These delicate fish are usually fried, and form a delightful break- 
fast or supper dish ; clean, wash and dry the fish, split them to the 
tail, salt and pepper them, and flour them nicely ; if you use lard 
instead of the fat of fried salt pork, put in a piece of butter to pre- 
vent their sticking, and which causes them to brown nicely ; let the 
fat be hot, fry quickly to a delicate brown ; they should be sufifi- 
ciently browned on one side before turning on the other side ; they 
are nice served with slices of salt pork, fried crisp; lay them side by 
side on a heated platter, garnish and send hot to the table ; they 
are often cooked and served with their heads on. 

BAKED WHITE FISH. 

Thoroughly clean the fish ; cut off the head or not, as preferred ; 
cut out the backbone from the head to within 2 inches of the tail, 
and stuff with the following: Soak stale bread in water, squeeze 
dry ; cut in pieces I large onion, fry in butter, chop fine ; add the 
bread, 2 ounces butter, salt, pepper and a little parsley or sage ; 
heat through, and when taken off the fire add the yolks of 2 well- 
beaten eggs; stuff the fish rather full, sew up with fine twine, and 
wrap with several coils of white tape ; rub the fish over slightly with 
butter ; just cover the bottom of a baking-pan with hot water, and 



FISH AND SHELL FISH. ■ 28 1 

place the fish in it, standing back upward, and bent in the form of 
an S. Serve with the following dressing: Reduce the yolks of 2 
hard-boiled eggs to a smooth paste with 2 tablespoons good salad 
oil; stir in yi teaspoon English mustard, and add pepper and vine- 
gar to taste. 

Salmon trout and turbot are cooked same as white fish. 

BOILED WHITE FISH. 

Dress the fish nicely, and cover in fish-kettle with boiling water 
seasoned well with salt ; remove the scum as it rises, and simmer, 
allowing from 8 to lo minutes' time to every pound ; when about 
half done, add a little vinegar or lemon-juice, take out, drain, and 
dish carefully, pouring over it drawn butter; or garnish with sprigs 
of parsley, and serve with egg-sauce. 

For ''Forcemeats aud Stuffings,'' see chapter on meats. 



SHELL FISH. 



CLAMS. 



To judge whether clams and oysters are fresh, insert a knife, 
and if the shell instantly closes firmly on the knife the oysters are 
fresh. If it shuts slowly and faintly or not at all they are dying 
or dead. When the shells of raw oysters are found gaping open 
they are not good. 

CLAM BAKE. 

Lay the clams on a rock, edge downward, forming a circle ; cover 
them with a fine brush, cover the brush with dry sage, cover the 
sage with larger brush ; set the whole on fire, and when the brush 
and sage are a little more than half burnt look at the clams by 
pulling some out, and if done enough, brush the fire, cinders, etc., 
off; mix some tomato or cauliflower sauce or catsup with the clams 
after being taken out of their shells; add butter and spices to taste 
and serve. 



2S'J FISH AND SHELL FISH. 



CLAM CHOWDER. 



Pi/t m a pot some small slices of fat salt pork, enough to line 
the bottom of it; on that a layer of potatoes cut in small pieces; 
on the potatoes a layer of chopped onions ; on the onions a layer of 
tomatoes in slices or canned tomatoes ; on these a layer of clams, 
whole or chopped (they are generally chopped), then a layer of 
crackers. Season with salt and pepper and other spices if desired. 
Then repeat this process, layer after layer, in above order, season- 
ing each, until the pot is full. When the whole is in, cover with 
water, set on a slow fire, and when nearly done stir gently, finish 
cooking and serve. 

When done, if found too thin, boil a little longer; if found too 
thick, add a little water, give one boil and serve. Fis/i Chowder 
is made exactly like clam chowder, except that fish are used 
instead of clams. 

CLAM FRITTERS. 

Twelve clams, minced fine, i pint milk, 3 eggs ; add the liquor 
from the clams to the milk ; beat up the eggs and add to this, with 
salt and pepper and flour enough for a thin batter; lastly add the 
chopped clams. Fry in hot lard, trying a little first to see if fat 
and batter are right. A tablespoon makes a fritter of moderate 
size. Fry quickly and serve hot. 

FRIED CLAMS. 

Take large soft-shell clams, dry them in a napkin, and dip them 
first in a beaten egg and then powdered cracker or bread crumbs, 
and fry in sweet lard or butter, or both mixed. 

CLAM PIE. 

Take a quantity of clams — if large, chop them ; put in a sauce- 
pan and cook in their own liquor, or if necessary, add a little water; 
boil 3 or 4 medium-sized potatoes until done, then cut in slices ; 
line a pudding-dish half way up its sides ; turn a small cup bottom 
up in the middle of the dish to keep up the top crust; put in first 
a layer of clams and then a few potatoes, season with bits of butter 



FISH AND SHELL FISH. 283 

and a little salt and pepper and dredge with flour; add another layer 
of clams, and so on until the dish is filled; add the liquor in which 
the clams were cooked and a little water if necessary ; there should 
be as much liquid as for chicken or other meat pie ; cover with 
top crust, cut places for steam to escape, and bake ^ hour. 

CLAM STEW. 

Put the clams in a stew-pan with about the same quantity of 
water as the juice of the clams; boil 25 or 30 minutes; remove all 
the scum that rises, and season with butter, salt and pepper. 

CRABS. 

To fit them for the table, living crabs require to be boiled in salt 
water; they are either placed in cold water which is then made hot 
or put at once into boiling water ; crabs cooked by the latter 
method are found to have the finest flavor. The male crab is the 
most valuable for the table, and maybe distinguished by possessing 
larger claws. In purchasing crabs in the living state preference 
should be given to those which have a rough shell and claws. 
When selecting a crab which has been cooked it should be held by 
its claws and well shaken from side to side. If it is found to rattle, 
or feels as if it contained water, it is a proof that the crab is of 
inferior quality. The crab may be kept alive, out of water 2 or 3 
days. 

SOFT CRABS. 

Many will not eat hard-shell crabs, considering them indigesti- 
ble, and not sufficiently palatable to compensate for the risk they 
run in eating them. And it must be owned that they are, at their 
best, but an indifferent substitute for the more aristocratic lobster. 
But in the morning of life, for him so often renewed, his crabship is 
a different creature, and greatly affected by epicures. 

Do not keep the crabs over night, as the shells harden in 24 
hours. Pull off the spongy substance from the sides, and the sand- 
bags ; these are the only portions not eatable ; wash well and wipe dry ; 
have ready a pan of seething hot lard or butter and fry them to a 



284 FISH AND SHELL FISH. 

fine brown ; put a little salt into the lard ; the butter will need 
none ; send up hot, garnished with parsley. 



CRAB CROQUETTES. 

Pick the meat of boiled crabs and chop it fine ; season to taste 
with pepper, salt and melted butter; moisten it well with rich milk 
or cream, then stiffen it slightly with bread or cracker-crumbs; 
add 2 or 3 well-beaten eggs to bind the mixture; form the cro- 
quettes, egg and bread-crumb them and fry them delicately in boil- 
ing lard. It is better to use a wire frying-basket for croquettes of 
all kinds. 

DEVILED CRABS. 

Canned crabs are brought from Hampton very fresh, and can be 
" deviled " with little trouble. Draw off the liquor from the can 
and mix the meat with an equal quantity of bread crumbs, finely 
rolled ; beat to a cream about j^ pound butter, and mix with it i 
dessert-spoon mustard, with salt and cayenne pepper to taste ; stir 
the crabs and crumbs carefully into it ; fill some shells or small tin 
patty-pans with the mixture, with a fine layer of bread crumbs on 
the top, on which dot a few small bits of butter; brown quickly in a 
hot oven ; they should puff up a little. 

ESCALOPED CRAB. 

Pick out all the meat of the crab and mix thoroughly ; add to it 
J^ its quantity of bread crumbs, a good lump of butter, divided 
into little bits; season with salt and pepper, a dust of grated nut- 
meg and I dessertspoon vinegar or lemon-juice sprinkled over the 
mass; mix all equally together; clean out the bottom shell of your 
crab, and fill it with the mixture; what is left you may put into 
scallop-shells or tins ; set them into a moderately hot oven ; when 
hot through and slightly browned on the surface they are fit to 
serve on a dish covered with a napkin, the crab-shell in the middle 
and the scallop-shells around it, garnished with sprigs of parsley. 



FISH AND SHELL FISH. 28$ 



FROGS. 

Scald the hind quarters in boiling water, rub them with lemon- 
juice and boil for 3 minutes, wipe them, dip them first in cracker 
dust, then in a mixture of 2 beaten eggs in ^ cup milk seasoned 
with pepper and salt, then again in cracker crumbs ; when they are 
well covered with crumbs fry in a mixture of hot lard and butter. 

BOILED LOBSTER. 

Plunge the lobster in warm water, then bring the water quickly 
to a boil, and boil 30 minutes, then take it out and stand aside to 
cool; when cold separate the tail from the body and twist off the 
claws ; shake out carefully the liver of the lobster, which may be 
known by its greenish color, also take out the coral ; split the tail and 
shell its entire length underneath, and carefully remove the meat ; 
split the meat in the center, and you will uncover a little vein, 
which remove and throw away; take the body of the lobster from 
the shell, pull off the spongy fingers on the outside, remove the 
stomach, which is immediately under the head, and throw this and 
the fingers away ; all the meat in the claws is good. To serve lob- 
ster plain boiled, arrange the meat in the centre of a cold dish, gar- 
nish with parsley, hard-boiled eggs and pickled beets, cut in fancy 
shapes ; let each season to suit one's self. 

BROILED LOBSTER. 

Cut the tail part of a lobster in two, rub a little sweet oil over 
the meat and broil. When done brush a little butter over it 
with the juice of ^ lemon and a very little cayenne. Place the 
meat back into the shell and send to the table with a dish of broiled 
tomatoes and a fresh baked potato. 

LOBSTERS EN BROCHETTE. 

Cut up the tail of a lobster in square pieces ; take a few thin 
slices of bacon and cut into lengths to match the lobster ; place 
them on a skewer alternately and broil ; baste as in broiled lobster 
and send to the table on a bed of water-cresses. 



286 FISH AND SHELL FISH. 

LOBSTER CROQUETTES. 

To the meat of a well-boiled lobster, chopped fine, add pepper, 
salt and powdered mace. Mix with this ]/^ as much bread crumbs, 
well rubbed, as you have meat ; make into ovates or pointed balls, 
with 2 tablespoons melted butter. Roll these in beaten egg, then 
in pulverized cracker, and fry in butter or very nice sweet lard. 
Serve dry and hot, and garnish with crisped parsley. This is a 
delicious supper dish or entree at dinner. 

FRIED LOBSTER. 

If, when making a salad, you have more lobster than you wish 
to use for that, keep it in a cool place and fry in butter and bread- 
crumbs for breakfast. 

GRATIN OF LOBSTER. 

Pick out the meat from a large lobster, chop it up very fine with 
a little parsley, a few drops essence of anchovy, i spoon vinegar, 
cayenne pepper and salt, with a httle bechamel sauce; boil all 
together, add the yolk of i egg, then put it to cool ; fill some paper 
cases with the mixture, cover the top with bread-crumbs and small 
pieces of butter, brown them in the oven, and serve on a napkin. 

LOBSTER PATTIES. 

Make some puff-paste and spread it in very deep patty-pans ; 
bake it empty ; having boiled well 2 or 3 fine lobsters, extract all 
the meat and mince it very small, mixing it with the coral smoothly 
mashed, and some yolk of hard-boiled ^gg, grated ; season it with a 
little salt, some cayenne, and some powdered mace or nutmeg, 
adding a little yellow lemon rind, grated ; moisten the mixture well 
with cream, fresh butter, or salad oil ; put it into a stew-pan, add a 
very little water, and let it steam till it just comes to a boil; take 
it off the fire, and the patties being baked, remove them from the 
tin pans, place them on a large dish, and fill them up to the top 
with the mixture. Similar patties may be made of prawns or crabs. 



FISH AND SHELL FISH. 28/ 

LOBSTER RISSOLES. 

Extract the meat of i boiled lobster; mince it as finely as possi- 
ble ; mix it with the coral pounded smooth, and some yolks of hard- 
boiled eggs, pounded also; season it with cayenne pepper, powdered 
mace, and a very little salt ; make a batter of beaten egg, milk and 
flour ; to each egg allow 2 large tablespoons milk, and i large tea- 
spoon flour ; beat the batter well, and then mix the lobster with it 
gradually, till it is stiff enough to make into oval balls about the 
size of a large plum ; fry them in the best salad oil, and serve them 
up either warm or cold. Similar rissoles may be made of raw 
oysters minced fine, or of boiled clams. These should be fried in lard. 

TO POT LOBSTERS. 

Take from i hen-lobster the spawn, coral, flesh, and pickings of 
the head and claws ; pound well and season with cayenne, white 
pepper and mace, according to taste: mix to a firm paste with 
good melted butter ; pound and season the flesh from the tail and 
put it into a pot, and then fill with the other paste; cover the top 
of each pot with clarified butter, and keep it in a cool place ; time, 
}^ to I hour to boil the lobster. 

LITTLE PIGS IN BLANKETS. 

Season large oysters with salt and pepper; cut fat English 
bacon in very thin slices, wrap an oyster in each slice, and fasten 
with a little wooden skewer (toothpicks are the best things); heat a 
frying-pan and put in the "little pigs;" cook just long enough to 
crisp the bacon — about 2 minutes; place on slices of toast that have 
been cut into small pieces, and serve immediately ; do not remove 
the skewers ; this is a nice relish for lunch or tea, and, garnished 
with parsley, is a pretty one; the pan must be very hot before the 
" pigs " are put in, and then great care must be taken that they do 
not burn. 

OYSTERS ON THE HALF-SHELL. 

Not until just before serving should they be opened. Market- 
men often furnish some one to do this. Six large oysters are 



288 FISH AND SHELL FISH. 

usually allowed each person. Left in half the shell, they are placed 
on a dinner-plate, with a thin slice of lemon in the center of the 
dish. 

OYSTERS ON A BLOCK OF ICE. 

Having a perfectly clear and solid block of ice, weighing lo or 
15 pounds, a cavity is to be made in the top of it in either of 2 ways, 
the first is to carefully chip with an ice-pick; the other, to melt 
with heated bricks. If the latter be chosen, the ice must be put in 
a tub or large pan, and i of the bricks held upon the center of it 
until there is a slight depression, yet sufificient for the brick to rest 
in ; when the first brick is cold, remove it, tip the block on one side, 
to let off the water, and then use another brick ; continue the 
operation till the cavity will hold as many oysters as are to be 
served ; these should be kept i hour previous in a cool place, should 
be drained in a colander, and seasoned with salt, pepper and vinegar; 
after laying 2 folded napkins on a large platter, to prevent the 
block from slipping, cover the dish with parsley, so that only the 
ice is visible; stick a number of pinks, or of any small, bright 
flowers that do not wilt rapidly, into the parsley; pour oysters into 
the space in the top of the ice, and garnish with thin slices of lemon. 

This gives an elegant dish, and does away with the unsightly 
shells in which raw oysters are usually served. It is not expensive, 
for the common oysters do as well as those of good size. Indeed, 
as many ladies dislike the large ones, here is an excellent substitute 
for serving in the shell, particularly as the oysters require no 
seasoning when once on the table. One quart is enough for a party 
of 10, but a block of the size given will hold 2 quarts. 

OYSTERS BAKED ON THE HALF-SHELL. 

Select I dozen of the largest, freshest and most highly-flavored 
oysters, as you would for a fry; both shells being washed very 
clean, place shell and all, one by one, in the pan, with the round 
shell down ; now place in an oven ; pretty soon you will see the 
shells slightly open ; when this takes place remove the pan from the 
oven, remove the top shell very carefully, and see to it especially 



FISH AND SHELL FISH. 289 

that you retain as much as possible of the oyster-juice ; deposit on 
each oyster a piece of the freshest and sweetest table-butter ; also 
a little cracker-dust and a pinch of salt ; now return again to the 
oven in the lower shell for from 15 to 20 minutes; when cooked do 
not empty into any dish, but eat directly from the oyster shell, 
squeezing on a few drops of lemon-juice. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Drain select oysters in a colander; dip them one by one into 
melted butter, to prevent sticking to the gridiron and place them 
on a wire gridiron ; broil over a clear fire ; when nicely browned on 
both sides, season with salt, pepper, and plenty of butter, and lay 
them on hot buttered toast, moistened with a little hot water. 
Serve very hot, or they will not be nice. Oysters cooked in this 
way and served on broiled beefsteak are nice. 

OYSTER CROQUETTES. 

Take the hard end of the oyster, leaving the other end in nice 
shape for a soup or stew ; scald them, then chop fine and add equal 
weight of potatoes rubbed through a colander; to i pound of this 
add 2 ounces butter, i teaspoon salt, yi teaspoon pepper, ^^ tea- 
spoon mace, and ^ gill cream ; make in small rolls, dip in egg and 
grated bread, fry in deep lard. 

CREAM OYSTERS. 

One pint cream, a little more than i pint oysters, i tablespoon 
flour; salt and pepper to taste; let the cream come to a boil; mix 
the flour with a little cold milk and stir into the boiling cream ; let 
the oysters come to a boil in their own liquor; then skim carefully; 
drain off all the liquor and turn the oysters into the cream. 

OYSTERS DEVILED IN THEIR SHELLS. 

Select large oysters for this purpose and when opened keep 
them in their deep shell along with their liquor; place the shells on 
a gridiron and season the oysters with cayenne pepper and salt to 



290 FISH AND SHELL FISH. 

taste, placing a small piece of butter on the top of each oyster; 
have your fire bright, and a few minutes will suffice to cook them. 

ESCALOPED OYSTERS. 

Prepare stale bread-crumbs, season to taste with pepper and 
salt ; butter a deep dish ; cover the bottom with the crumbs; add a 
layer of large-sized oysters, with butter ; fill the dish alternately 
with oysters, crumbs and butter; bake in a hot oven until cooked 
entirely through ; if they become too brown on the top, cover with 
paper ; if preferred, scallop the oysters separately and serve in the 
shells, observing that the shells are well-cleaned ; instead of crumbs 
use slices of well-buttered bread, if you hke, or bake with a crust of 
puff-paste. 

OYSTER FLAVOR. 

A German cook has discovered a way to have oyster flavor all 
the year round. Take fresh, large, plump oysters, beard them and 
place them in a vessel over the fire for a few moments in order to 
extract the juice, then put them to cool, and chop them very fine 
with powdered biscuit, mace and finely minced lemon peel ; pound 
them until they become a paste; make them up into thin cakes, 
place them on a sheet of paper in a slow oven and let them bake 
until they become quite hard ; pound them directly into powder, 
and place the powder in a dry tin box, well covered ; keep in a dry 
place, and it will be very much appreciated when the true oyster 
flavor is imparted to fish, sauces and dishes. This makes a delicious 
sauce for fresh cod. 

FRICASSEED OYSTERS. 

One hundred oysters (about 2 quarts\ 4 large tablespoons but- 
ter, I teaspoon chopped parsley, i tablespoon flour, a speck of 
cayenne, salt, yolks of 3 eggs ; brown 2 tablespoons of the butter, 
and add to it the parsley, cayenne, and salt, and the oysters well 
drained ; mix together the flour and the remainer of the butter, and 
stir into the oysters when they begin to curl ; then add yolks, well 
beaten, and take immediately from the fire. Serve on a hot dish 
with a garnish of fried bread and parsley. 



FISH AND SHELL FISH. 29I 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Melt I cup good butter and strain into a frying-pan, adding y^, 
cup olive oil and have the pan hot to fry the oysters. Place as 
many large, fresh oysters as are needed upon a napkin so as to 
absorb all the liquor, then roll them in powdered crackers or bread- 
crumbs ; beat up 3 eggs, and add i tablespoon milk with salt and 
pepper; dip the oysters in these prepared eggs, and again roll them 
in crumbs; place them on a plate one by one, but not one upon 
another, and when they are all breaded fry them in hot butter and 
oil to a golden brown color. These fried oysters so deliciously pre- 
pared should then be served on a napkin covering a platter. 

FRIED OYSTERS, NO. 2. 

Drain, remove all bits of shell, and sprinkle with pepper and salt, 
and set in a cool place for 10 minutes. Then, if the oysters are 
small, pour them into a pan of crackers, rolled fine ; add liquor, mix 
well and let stand 5 minutes ; add a little salt and pepper, mold into 
small cakes, with 2 or 3 oysters in each, roll in dry crackers and fry 
in lard and butter. Serve hot in a covered dish. 

A substantial dish may be made of fried oysters by having 
ready some mashed potatoes nicely seasoned, and placed around 
the edge of a hot dish in such a way as to form a wall, and serving 
the oysters in this dish. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Roll out some very light puff-paste ^ inch thick ; stamp it in 
rounds with a cutter 3 inches in diameter; press a small cutter 2 
inches in diameter on the middle of each to the depth of Y^ inch ; 
place the rounds on a buttered tin, baste them lightly with egg, and 
bake in a quick oven ; when done take them out, remove the center- 
piece, scoop out a little of the inside, and fill the shells with the 
prepared oysters. 

Parboil 25 oysters in their own liquor; remove the oysters and 
season the liquid with lemon-peel, nutmeg, and pepper ; strain, and 
thicken with i heaping tablespoon flour, i^ ounces butter, i wine- 



292 FISH AND SHELL FISH. 

glass rich cream ; mix, and then add the oysters. Simmer all 
together a few minutes, fill the shells, and serve. 

Scallops and clams cut up fine, with a sauce made on the same 
principle, make a v^ery nice patty. 

OYSTER PATTIES, NO. 2. 

Line small patty-pans with puff paste ; into each pan put 6 
oysters, bits of butter, pepper and salt ; sprinkle over a little flour 
and hard-boiled eggs, chopped (allowing about 2 eggs for 6 patties), 
cover with an upper crust, notch the edges and bake; serve either 
in the pans or remove them to a larger platter. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Two hundred large oysters, y^ pint vinegar, ^ pint white wine, 
4 spoons salt, 6 spoons whole black pepper, and a little mace. 
Strain the liquor and add the above named ingredients. Let boil 
up once, and pour, while boiling hot, over the oysters. After these 
have stood 10 minutes pour off the liquor, which, as well as the 
oysters, should then be allowed to get cold. Put into a jar and 
cover tight. The oysters will keep some time. 

CHICKEN AND OYSTER PIE. 

Boil a chicken ; cut up and place in a pie dish ; cover with 
oysters and season to taste ; add 2 hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, 
with a piece of butter, size of an egg, in the center; dust the whole 
with flour and pour on j^ pint milk ; put on a puff-paste crust and 
bake about ^ hour in a moderate oven. 

OYSTER PIE. 

]\Iake a rich puff paste ; roll out twice as thick as for a fruit 
pie, for the top crust — about the ordinary thickness for the lower. 
Line a pudding-dish with the thinner and fill with crusts of dry 
bread or light crackers. Some use a folded towel to fill the interior 
of the pie, but the above expedient is preferable. Butter the edges 
of the dish that you may be able to lift the upper crust without 
breaking. Cover the mock pie with the thick crust, ornamented 



FISH AND SHELL FISH. 293 

heavily at the edge, that it may lie the more quietly and bake. 
Cook the oysters as for a stew, only beating into them at the last, 
2 eggs, and thickening with i spoon fine cracker crumbs or rice 
flour. They should stew but 5 minutes, and time them so that the 
paste will be baked just in season to receive them. Lift the top 
crust, pour in the smoking hot oysters, and send up hot. 

Many consider it unnecessary to prepare the oysters and crust 
separately ; but experience and observation go to prove that if this 
precaution be omitted, the oysters are apt to be wofully overdone. 
The maker can try both methods and take her choice. 

OYSTER POT-PIE. 

Scald I quart can oysters in their own liquor ; -when it boils, 
skim out the oysters and set aside in a warm place ; to the liquor 
add I pint hot water ; season well with salt and pepper, a generous 
piece of butter, thicken with flour and cold milk ; have ready nice 
light biscuit dough, rolled twice as thick as pie-crust ; cut out into 
inch squares, drop them into the boiling stew, cover closely, and 
cook 40 minutes ; when taken up, stir the oysters into the juice and 
serve all together in one dish ; a nice side entree. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

Cut bread in thin slices, then round them, removing the crust, 
to fit patty-pans, toast them, butter and put in the pans; moisten 
the slices with 3 or 4 teaspoons oyster liquor; place on the toast a 
layer of oysters, sprinkle with pepper, and put a small piece of 
butter on top; place pans in a baking-pan, cover with another pan 
to keep in the steam and flavor; put in quick oven, and when 
cooked 7 or 8 minutes remove the cover and sprinkle with salt ; 
replace cover and cook i minute longer. Serve in patty-pans. 

ROASTED OYSTERS. 

Take oysters in the shell, wash the shells clean, and lay them on 
hot coals ; when they are done they will begin to open. Remove 
the upper .shell and serve the oysters in the lower shell, with a little 
melted butter jjourcd over each. 



294 FISH AND SHELL FISH. 

OYSTER A LA POULETTE. 

Scald I dozen oysters in their own liquor; salt and remove the 
oysters; add i tablespoon butter, the juice of ^ lemon, i gill 
cream, and i teaspoon flour. Beat up the yolk of i egg while the 
sauce is simmering ; add the egg and simmer the whole until it 
thickens. Place the oysters on a hot dish, pour the sauce over 
them, sprinkle a little chopped parsely on the top and serve. 

OYSTER SOUP. 
For oyster soup see " Soups^ 

STEAMED OYSTERS. 

Wash and drain i quart counts or select oysters; put them 
in a shallow pan and place in a steamer over boiling water ; cover 
and steam till they are plump, with the edges ruffled, but no 
longer. Place in a heated dish, with butter, pepper and salt, and 
serve. 

STEAMED OYSTERS IN THE SHELL. 

Wash and place them in an air-tight vessel, laying them the 
upper shell downward, so that the liquor will not run out when 
they open. Place this dish or vessel over a pot of boiling water 
where they will get the steam. Boil them rapidly until the shells 
open, about 15 to 20 minutes. Serve at once while hot, seasoned 
with butter, salt and pepper. 

OYSTER STEW WITH MILK. 

One and one-half cups milk, i cup water, oyster liquor, butter 
size of I walnut, pepper and salt to taste, 3^ cup cracker-crumbs; 
bring the liquid to a boil, add the cracker-crumbs and the oysters, 
boil I minute, and take from the stove. 

OYSTER STEW, FANCY STEW WITH TOAST. 

Drain the liquid portion of the foregoing stew into a large 
tureen, then lay pieces of hot toast on top, and arrange the oysters 
on top of them. 



FISH AND SHELL FISH. 295 

PARK ROW OYSTER STEW. 

Put the oysters into a stew-pan with a Httle Hquor to cover 
them ; add a Httle butter, pepper and salt ; stir every now and 
then while on the fire, and when poured into the dish, put in about 
I tablespoon milk to every 10 oysters. 

Oyster soup is made in the same way, except that more liquor is 
added, and i tablespoon pounded butter-crackers ; add plenty of 
milk the last thing when the oysters are cooked, and let it boil up 
once. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

See " Sauces^ 

NEW WAY OF PREPARING OYSTERS. 

Take 2 dozen oysters and throw them in a large deep dish; then 
take I small bunch parsley chopped fine, a little lemon-rind grated, 
^ nutmeg grated, and the crumbs of i stale French roll, also 
grated; let the latter be well incorporated, adding some cayenne; 
have in readiness the yolks of 3 fresh eggs beaten up into a foam ; 
dip each oyster separately into the eggs and roll them into the bread- 
crumbs until they are all covered with a good coat ; put 5^ pound 
butter in the oven till it is melted while arranging the oysters in 
the pan, then turn them continually until they assume a perfect 
brown and crusty appearance ; when fully cooked serve them with 
some celery, salt and thin slices of Graham bread and butter. 

SCALLOPS. 

The heart is the only part used. If you buy them in the shell, 
boil and take out the hearts. Those sold in our markets are gen- 
erally ready for frying or stewing. Dip them in beaten egg, then 
in cracker crumbs, and fry in hot lard ; or, you may stew them like 
oysters. The fried scallops are generally preferred. 

TERRAPINS, OR WATER TURTLES. 

Land terrapins, it is hardly necessary to say, are uneatable, but 
the large turtle that frequents our mill-ponds and rivers can be 



296 FISH AND SHELL FISH. 

converted into a relishable article of food. Plunge the turtle into 
a pot of boiling water, and let him lie there 5 minutes; you can 
then skin the under part easily, and pull off the horny parts of the 
feet; lay him for 10 minutes in cold salt and water; then put 
into more hot water salted, but not too much; boil until tender; 
the time will depend upon the size and age; take him out, drain 
and wipe dry ; loosen the shell carefully, not to break the flesh ; cut 
open also with care, lest you touch the gall-bag with the knife ; 
remove this with the entrails and sand-bag; cut up all the rest of 
the animal into small bits ; season with pepper, salt, i chopped 
onion, sweet herbs, and i teaspoon some spiced sauce, or i table- 
spoon catsup — walnut or mushroom ; save the juice that runs from 
the meat, and put all together into a saucepan with a closely-fitting 
top; stew gently 15 minutes, stirring occasionally, and add i large 
spoon butter, or i teaspoon browned flour wet in cold Avater, i glass 
brown sherry, and lastly, the beaten yolk of i egg, mixed with a 
little of the hot liquor, that it may not curdle ; boil up once and 
turn into a covered dish. Send around green pickles and delicate 
slices of toast with it. 

GREEN TURTLE SOUP. 
See " Soups'' 
For " Force Meats and StiiJJiiigs " see chapter on meats. 



CHAPTER XII. 

GAME. 

TO SELECT GAME. 

Pheasants. — A young cock pheasant will have short and blunt 
spurs, while an old one will have them long and sharp. A hen 
pheasant may be known by its plumage, and its flavor is preferred 
by many, though not by all, except when almost ready to lay. 

Grouse. — These are judged of the same as pheasants. 

Woodcock. — When these are fat they will feel thick and firm, 
and a streak of fat will appear on the side of the breast. Fresh 
birds will have supple feet, and the head and throat clear ; whereas, 
when stale, the feet are stiff, and the head and throat nasty. 

Pigeons. — Tame pigeons, when fresh and in good order, are 
plump, and have their feet pliable and of a dusky white. Wild 
pigeons are not reckoned so good as tame, but they improve with 
keeping. They are not so fat but are to be chosen by the same 
rules as the others. 

Hares. — An old hare does very Avell for soup, but for ordinary 
purposes it is by no means desirable. It will be distinguished by 
its dry, tough ears, its blunted claws and its widely-parted lips. A 
young hare has soft and tender ears, sharpish claws, and the part- 
ing of the lips close. 

Rabbit. — An old rabbit will have lon<; rouMi claAvs, and fur 
often inclining to grey. W^hen fresh, the body will be rather stiff 
and the flesh dry and pale; but if stale, it will be limper, and the 
flesh dark-colored. 

]^enison.—QX\oo'~,Q the dark-colored meat, not the black, but the 
rich reddish-brown, with fine grain, and well coated with fat. 
Keep it hung up in a cool, dark cellar, covered with a cloth, and 
use as soon as you can conveniently. 

297 



298 GAME. 

TO POT BIRDS. 

Prepare them as for roasting ; fill each with a dressing made as 
follows: Allow for each bird the size of a pigeon ^ a hard-boiled 
egg, chopped fine, i tablespoon bread-crumbs, I teaspoon chopped 
pork; season the birds with pepper and salt; stuff them and lay 
them in a kettle that has a tight cover; place over the birds a few 
slices of pork, add I pint water, dredge over them a little flour, 
cover, and put them in a hot oven; let them cook until tender, 
then add a little cream and butter; if the sauce is too thin, thicken 
with flour; i pint water is sufficient for 12 birds. 

REED BIRDS. 

These delicious lumps of sweetness, as they are appropriately 
called, are always acceptable, but to thoroughly appreciate a reed 
bird dinner one must mingle with the gunners on the Delaware 
river s.5 guest or member of one of the many clubs whose houses 
are situated within a few hundred yards of the hunting-grounds. 
After the judge's decision as to who has JiigJi boat, the birds are 
plucked (and at some of the club-houses drawn), arranged neatly 
in a dripping-pan with bits of fresh country butter between them ; 
they are allowed to cook on one side a few minutes, and with a 
long-handled spoon are turned over to brown on the other side ; a 
little salt is added, and they are then placed on a hot platter en 
pyramide and the gravy poured over them; they are then sent to 
the table with fried chipped potatoes. 

REED BIRDS A LA LINDENTHORPE. 

On "ladies' day" the members of this club are more particular 
than on " members' day." They prepare the birds by drawing the 
trail and removing the head ; they then take large sweet or Irish 
potatoes, cut them in two, scoop out the insides, and put an oyster 
or small piece of bacon inside of each bird and put the birds inside 
the potatoes, tie them up with twine and bake until the potatoes 
are done; the common twine is then removed and the potatoes are 
tied with a narrow piece of white or colored tape in a neat bow- 
knot and sent to the table on a napkin. 



GAME. 299 



PRAIRIE CHICKEN. 



Clean nicely, using a little soda in the water in which they are 
washed ; rinse them and drain, and fill with dressing, sewing them 
up nicely, and binding down the legs and wings with cord; put 
them in a steamer and let them cook lo minutes ; then put them in 
a pan with a little butter, set them in an oven and baste frequently 
until of a nice brown ; they should brown in about 35 minutes. 
Serve them in a platter with sprigs of parsley alternated with cur- 
rant jelly. 

Partridges and quails may be cooked in the same manner. 

ROAST PRAIRIE CHICKEN. 

The bird being a little strong, and its flesh, when cooked, a little 
dry, it should be either larded or wide strips of bacon or pork 
placed over its breast ; a mild-seasoned stufifing will improve the 
flavor of old birds ; dust a little flour over them, baste occasionally 
and serve. 

Pheasants may be managed in the same way. 

ROAST WILD DUCK. 

Wild duck should not be dressed too soon after being killed. If 
the weather is cold it will be better for being kept several days. Bake 
in a hot oven, letting it remain for 5 or 10 minutes without basting 
to keep in the gravy, then baste frequently with butter and water; 
if over-done it loses flavor, 30 to 40 minutes in the right kind of an 
oven being sufficient. Serve on a very hot dish, and send to table 
as hot as possible with a cut lemon and the following sauce : 

Put in a tiny sauce-pan i tablespoon each of Worcestershire 
sauce and mushroom catsup, a little salt and cayenne pepper, and 
the juice of ^ lemon ; mix well, make it hot, remove from the fire, 
stir in i teaspoon made mustard ; pour into a hot gravy boat. 

The teal, the jewel of water fowl, if fat, should be laid each on 
its slice of toast, roasted before the fire ; turn it over now and 
then, and serve on the toast. The coot, on account of its black 
and very downy skin, is best flayed, cut into joints, and stewed with 
wine as a matelote. It then becomes excellent eating. 



300 GAME. 

CANVAS-BACK DUCK. 

The epicurean taste declares that this special kind of bird 
requires no spices or flavors to make it perfect, as the meat par- 
takes of the flavor of the food that the bird feeds upon, being 
mostly wild celery ; and the delicious flavor is best preserved when 
roasted quickly with a hot fire. After dressing the duck in the 
usual way, by plucking, singing, drawing, wipe it with a wet towel, 
truss the head under the wing ; place it in a dripping-pan, put it in 
the oven, basting often, and roast it Y^ hour. It is generally pre- 
ferred a little underdone. Place it when done on a hot dish, season 
well with salt and pepper, pour over it the gravy it has yielded in 
baking and serve it immediately while hot. 

WILD GOOSE, 

When to be had, is a treat for lovers of wild fowl ; and yet, 
strange to say, there is a prejudice against it, as fishy. Some few 
species of geese may indeed graze on seaweed, and perhaps even 
swallow a few shell-fish when they happen to alight on the shore, 
hard-pressed by hunger; but, as a rule, there is no cleaner feeding 
bird than the goose, feeding upon herbs or grain, but preferring the 
former as the staple of its diet. We know of no wild goose which 
is not excellent to eat, when obtained at the proper age and in good 
condition. 

Wild geese are roasted and served in the same way as wild 
ducks. 

GAME PIE. 

Clean well, inside and out, i dozen small birds, quail, snipe, 
woodcock, etc., and split them in half; put them in a sauce-pan 
with about 2 quarts water ; when it boils, skim off all scum 
that rises ; then add salt and pepper, i bunch minced parsley, i 
onion chopped fine, and 3 whole cloves ; cut up ^ pound salt pork 
into dice, and let all boil until tender, using care that there be 
enough water to cover the birds ; thicken this with 2 tablespoons 
browned flour and let it boil up; stir in a piece of butter as large as 
an egg ; remove from the fire and let it cool ; have ready i pint of 



GAME 301 

potatoes cut as small as dice, and a rich. crust made ; line the sides of 
a buttered pudding-dish with the crust ; lay in the birds, then some 
of the potatoes, then birds and so on, until the dish is full ; pour 
over the gravy, put on the top crust, with a slit cut in the center, 
and bake. The top can be ornamented with pastry leaves in a 
wreath about the edge, with any fancy design placed in the center 
across the slit. 

TO ROAST PARTRIDGES, PHEASANTS, QUAILS OR GROUSE. 

Carefully cut out all the shot, wash thoroughly but quickly, using 
soda in the water ; rinse again, and dry with a clean cloth ; stuff 
them and sew them up ; skewer the legs and wings to the body, 
larder the breast with very thin slices of fat salt pork, place them in 
the oven, and baste with butter and water before taking up, having 
seasoned them with salt and pepper ; or you can leave out the pork 
and use only butter, or cook them without stuffing. Make a gravy of 
the drippings thickened with browned flour ; boil up and serve in a 
boat. 

These are all very fine broiled, first splitting down the back, 
placing on the gridiron the inside down, cover with a baking-tin, 
and broil slowly at first. Serve with cream gravy. 

PIGEON PIE. 

Dress and wash clean, split down the back, and then proceed as 
for chicken pie. 

ROAST PIGEONS. 

They should be dressed while fresh. If young, they will be 
ready for roasting in 12 hours. Dress carefully, and after making 
clean, wipe dry and put into each bird a small piece of butter 
dipped in cayenne. Truss the wings over the back and roast in a 
quick oven, keeping them constantly basted with butter. Serve 
with brown gravy. Dish with young water-cresses. 

BROILED QUAIL. 

Split through the back and broil over a hot fire, basting fre- 
quently with butter. When done place a bit of butter on each 



302 GAME. 

piece, and set In oven a few moments to brown. Serve on piecei 
of toast with currant jelly. Plovers are cooked in the same way. 
Pigeons should be first parboiled and then broiled. 

WOODCOCK. 

Dress, wipe clean, tic the legs, skin the head and neck, turn the 
beak under the wing and tie it ; tie a piece of bacon over it, and 
immerse in hot Tat 2 or 3 minutes. Serve on toast. 

Another favorite way is to split them through the back and 
broil, basting with butter, and serving on toast. They may also be 
roasted whole before the fire for 15 or 20 minutes. 

Snipe are similar to woodcock and may be served in the same 
manner. 

BEAR MEAT. 

Bear meat requires a longer time for cooking than almost any 
other kind. It requires parboiling, and should be cooked thor- 
oughly. It may be roasted like pork or buffalo meat, or sliced 
into steaks and broiled or fried. 

ROAST 'coon. 

The raccoon should be first soaked in strong salt and water 
from 8 to 10 hours, and it is also desirable to have the carcass 
frozen. It should be parboiled from i to i^ hours, and a 
dessertspoon of soda or saleratus should be put into the water. The 
time required for roasting, both in the case of the opossum and the 
raccoon, depends somewhat on circums':ances, and the judgment of 
the cook must determine when they are ready for the table. Irish 
potatoes are a good accompaniment to the raccoon. 

The season, both for the opossum and raccoon, is from about 
the 1st of November to the ist of March. 

ROAST 'possum. 

If the stirring air of " Dixie " appeals to southern sentiment and 
moves the breast with a thrill of enthusiasm, roast 'possum holds 
no less a place as the favorite at the southern board. But if the 



GAME. 303 

first suggests warlike memories, the comparison here stops short, for 
the oppossum is essentially a non-combatant. Give him a box on 
the ear and he will " play 'possum " as only a 'possum can, and 
betray no signs of life until he finds a peaceful rest in the baking- 
pan, when it is a reasonable presumption that, secure from observa- 
tion in the closed oven, he winks at least once, to satisfy himself 
of the situation. And if " Dixie " be an air in which chivalry 
loves to pay its tribute to beauty in the evening serenade by the 
mellow moonlight, catching 'possum under like conditions is a 
favorite pastime with the darkies, whose highest ecstasy is attained 
in " 'Possum up a gum-tree." But however the pursuits and tastes 
of the two races may otherwise vary, all concur in their estimate of 
roast 'possum garnished with sweet potatoes. 

To roast a 'possum, first catch the 'possum. Dress it and soak 
in salt and water from 6 to 12 hours, then parboil in salt water for 
^ to ^ hour; if an old animal it requires longer boiling and 
roasting than a young one. Prepare a dressing the same as for a 
turkey or chicken, of which oysters may form an ingredient, as the 
dressing should be rich and sav^ory ; stuff, sew up and place in the 
baking-pan, the same as a turkey, with a little water. Place in the 
oven for 15 or 20 minutes; in the meantime partially boil some 
sweet potatoes ; remove the pan from the oven, pour off the liquor 
in a dish in which it can be kept hot, and lay the sweet potatoes 
closely round the 'possum in the pan ; cut some slices of bacon 
and lay them across the 'possum and on the potatoes; use the 
liquor that was turned off for 2 or 3 bastings, basting both the 'pos- 
sum and the sweet potatoes, until it is all returned to the pan. 
Let bake for an hour or more, according to the age and size of the 
'possum. 

HAUNCH OF VENISON. 

Wash with lukewarm water and vinegar : rub well with butter 
or lard. Cover the top and side with foolscap paper, well greased, 
and coat it with a paste of flour and water }4 inch thick. Lay over 
this a large sheet of thin wrapping paper, and over this another of 
stout foolscap. Tie all down with pack-thread. The papers should 



304 GAME. 

all be thoroughly greased, and it would be well to do this the day 
before they are to be used. About 3 hours before the roast will be 
needed, put into the dripping-pan with 2 cups boiling water in the 
bottom. Place another pan over it to keep in the steam ; be sure 
that the fire is good, and leave it to itself for i hour. Then see 
that the paper is not scorching ; wet it with hot water and a ladle 
of gravy ; cover it and let it alone for i^ hours long^er. Remove 
the papers and paste and test with a skewer in the thickest part. 
If it goes in readily close the door and let it brown for ^ hour. 
Baste freely 4 times with wine and butter, and at last dredge with 
flour and rub over with butter to make a froth. Take it up and 
put it upon a hot dish. Skim the gravy left in the dripping-pan, 
strain it, thicken with brown flour, add 2 teaspoons currant jelly, i 
glass wine, pepper and salt, letting them boil for an instant. Allow 
y^ hour to the pound in roasting. The neck can be used in the 
same way and according to the same rule as to the time required 
for roasting. 

FRIED RABBIT. 

After the rabbit has been thoroughly cleaned and washed, put it 
into boiling water, and let it boil 10 minutes; drain it, and when 
cold, cut it into joints, dip into beaten egg, and then in fine bread- 
crumbs ; season with salt and pepper ; when all are ready fry them 
in butter and sweet lard, mixed over a moderate fire until brown 
on both sides; take them out, thicken the gravy with i spoon 
flour, turn in i cup milk or cream; let all boil up, and turn over 
the rabbits; serve hot with onion sauce (see ''Sauces"); garnish 
with sliced lemon. 

ROAST RABBIT. 

First make a stufifing of i pound veal and }{ pound pork, sim- 
mered 2 hours in water to cover; 4 crackers, rolled fine; i table- 
spoon salt, I scant teaspoon pepper, i teaspoon summer savory, i 
large tablespoon butter, and i}{ cups of the broth in which the 
veal and pork were cooked; chop the meat fine, add the other 
ingredients, and put on the fire to heat ; cut off the rabbit's head, 
open the vent, and draw; wash clean, and season with salt and 



GAME. 305 

pepper; stuff while the dressing is hot, and sew up the opening; 
put the rabbit on its knees, and skewer in that position ; rub 
thickly with butter, dredge with flour, and put in the baking-pan, 
the bottom of which should be covered with hot water; bake V2 
hour in a quick oven, basting frequently ; serve with a border of 
mashed potatoes, and pour the gravy over the rabbit. 

RABBIT WITH HERBS. 

Cut I rabbit in pieces and place it in a stew-pan with butter, 
parsley, chives, mushrooms, bay-leaves, and thyme, chopped fine; 
when done, add i spoon flour to thicken it. Cold roast hare can 
be prepared in the same way. 

RABBIT PIE. 

This pie can be made the same as ^'Gaine Pic,'' excepting you 
scatter through it 4 hard-boiled eggs cut in slices; cover with puff 
paste, cut a slit in the middle, and bake i hour, laying paper over 
the top should it brown too fast. 

BROILED SQUIRRELS. 

Clean and soak in cold water; wipe dry and broil on a gridiron 
over a clear, hot fire, turning frequently ; when done lay in a hot 
dish and dress with plenty of melted butter, pepper and salt, and 
let them lie between 2 hot dishes for 5 minutes. 

BRUNSWICK STEW. 

Three fine gray squirrels, skinned and cleaned — joint as you 
would chickens for a fricassee ; ^ pound fat salt pork ; i onion, 
sliced ; 12 ears corn, cut from the cob ; 6 large tomatoes, pared and 
sliced ; 3 tablespoons butter, rolled in flour ; parsley ; enough water 
to cover the squirrels ; put on squirrels, pork — cut up small — onion,, 
and parsley in the water, and bring to a boil ; when this has lasted 
10 minutes, put in the corn, and stew until the squirrels are tender;: 
then add the tomatoes, cut up thin ; 20 minutes later, stir in the 
butter and flour; simmer 10 minutes, and pour into a large, deep 
dish. 



306 GAME. 



VENISON CHOPS. 

Broiled and served Avith currant jelly, are not to be despised, 
trim the ends, as you would a French lamb chop. 

VENISON EPICUREAN. 

Cut a steak from the leg or a chop from the loin of a venison 
about i}4 inches thick; put a walnut of butter, salt and pepper into 
a chafing-dish ; light the spirit lamp under it, and when the butter 
melts put in the chop or steak ; let it cook on one side a few 
minutes, then turn it over and add i wineglass sherry or port and i 
tablespoon currant jelly ; simmer gently about 7 minutes if it is to 
be eaten rare, and allow 12 minutes' cooking, if required well done. 

.VENISON PATTIES. 

Make a nicely-flavored mince of the remains of cold roast 
venison ; moisten it with a little sheny or gravy, and warm it in a 
sauce-pan ; fill the patty-shells with the meat and serve, as oyster 
patties. 

For ''■Forcemeats and Stuffings," see chapter on meats. 



CHAPTKR XIII.* 



ICE-CREAMS, ICES AND FROZEN FRUITS. 



Use only the best materials for making and flavoring if good 
ice-cream is desired, and avoid using milk thickened with arrow- 
root, corn-starch or any other farinaceous substance. Pure cream, 
ripe natural fruits, or the extracts of the same, and sugar of the 
purest quality, combine to make a perfect ice-cream. 

Pour the mixture that is to be frozen into the tin can, put the 
beater in this, and put on the cover; place in the tub, being careful 
to have the point on the bottom fit into the socket in the tub; 
put on the cross-piece, and turn the crank to see if everything is in 
the right place. 

Next comes the packing. Ice should be broken in large pieces, 
and put in a canvas bag, and pounded fine with a mallet ; put a 
thick layer of it in the tub (about 5 inches deep), and then a thin 
layer of salt; continue this until the tub is full, and then pack 
down solid with a paddle or a common piece of wood ; after turning 
the crank a few times add more salt and ice, and again pack down ; 
continue in this way until the tub is full. For a gallon can, 3 pints 
salt and perhaps 10 quarts fine ice will be required. Remember 
that if the freezer is packed solid at first, no more ice or salt is 
needed. The water must never be let off, as it is one of the 
strongest elements to help the freezing. If more salt than the 
quantity given is used, the cream will freeze sooner, but it will not 
be so smooth and rich as when less is used. 

Turn the crank for 20 minutes, — not fast at first, but very 
rapidly the last 10 minutes. It will be hard to turn when the mix- 
ture is frozen. Turn back the cross-piece, wipe the salt and ice 
from the cover, and take off the cover, not displacing the can 
itself. Remove the beater and scrape the cream from it. Work a 
large spoon up and down in the cream until it is light and the space 

307 



308 ICE-CREAMS, ICES AND FROZEN FRUITS. 

left by taking out the beater is filled. Cover the can, cork up the 
hole from which the handle of the beater was taken, put on the 
cross-piece, and set the tub in a cool place until serving time. Then 
dip the can for a few seconds in water that is a trifle warm, wipe it^ 
and turn on the dish. Rest it for a moment, and lift a little. 

If the cream is to be served from a mold, remove it when you 
do the beater. Fill the mold and work the cream up and down 
with a spoon. This will press the cream into every part, and 
lighten it. Cover the top of the mold with thick white paper, put 
on the tin cover, and bury in fresh ice and salt. 

There are a great many good freezers. The Packer is especially 
suited to family use. It turns so easily that any lady can make 
her own creams. For the first 12 minutes a child can work it. It 
is made of the best stock, and will last many years. The cogs on 
freezers should be oiled occasionally. When you have made cream, 
see that every part of the freezer is clean and perfectly dry before 
putting away. 

ALMOND ICE-CREAM. 

One pint of blanched almonds, the yolks of 5 eggs, i quart 
cream, i^ cups sugar, i pint milk, i pint water; boil the water 
and sugar together for 25 minutes; put the almonds in a frying- 
pan and stir over the fire until they are a rich brown ; remove from 
the fire, and pound to a paste in the mortar; cook the milk and 
powdered almonds in the double boiler for 20 minutes ; beat the 
yolks of the eggs and stir them into the boiling syrup ; beat this 4 
minutes, having the basin in boiling water; take from the fire, and 
gradually beat into it the almonds and milk ; strain the mixture 
through a sieve, and rub through as much as possible; stir occa,sion- 
ally while cooling; when cold, add the cream and ^ teaspoon 
extract of lemon. Freeze. 

APRICOT ICE-CREAM. 

One quart cream, i generous pint canned apricot, i pint sugar, 
the yolks of 3 eggs, i pint water; boil the sugar and water 
together 20 minutes; rub the apricot through a sieve and add it to 



ICE-CREAMS, ICES AND FROZEN FRUITS. 309 

the boiling syrup; add also the beaten yolks of the eggs, and cook 
for 6 minutes, stirring all the while ; take from the fire and place in 
a pan of cold water; beat the mixture 10 minutes: if cold at the 
end of that time, add the cream, and freeze. 

BANANA ICE-CREAM. 

Make this the same as the apricot, using, however, only i^ cups 
sugar and 6 bananas. More bananas can be used if a strong flavor 
of the fruit is liked. 

BERRY CREAM. 

Any kind of berries may be used for this, strawberries being the 
nicest. Mash with a potato masher in an earthern bowl, i quart 
berries with i pound sugar ; rub it through the colander ; add i 
quart sweet cream and freeze. Very ripe peaches or mashed apples 
may be used instead of the berries. 

BURNT ALMOND ICE-CREAM AND ORANGE-ICE. 

First make the almond candy as follows: Take i pound sugar, 
^ pound sweet almonds, 2 ounces bitter almonds ; blanch the 
almonds, split them and put them in a slow oven to dry and 
acquire a light yellow color ; put the sugar in a kettle on the fire, 
without any water, and stir it until it is all melted and of the color 
of golden syrup ; then put in the hot almonds, stir gently to mix 
and pour the candy on a platter; when cold, pound the candy quite 
fine, put it into 3 pints rich milk, set it on the fire, and when it 
boils add the beaten yolks of 10 eggs; strain the burnt almond 
custard thus made into a freezer, and freeze as usual and beat well. 

For the orange-ice : Take 3 pints water, i pound sugar, 5 or 6 
oranges, according to size, juice of i lemon, if the oranges are 
sweet, whites of 4 eggs; make a thick syrup of the sugar and a 
very little water ; peel yi the oranges, divide them by their natural 
divisions and drop the pieces of oranges into the boiling syrup ; 
grate the yellow peel of the other 3 oranges into a bowl and 
squeeze in the juice, then pour the syrup from the scalded orange 
slices also into the bowl through a strainer and keep the slices on 



3IO ICE-CREAMS, ICES AND FROZEN FRUITS. 

ice to be mixed in at the last; add the water and lemon-juice to 
the orange syrup in the bowl, strain and freeze ; beat in the whipped 
whites as usual, and when finished stir in the sugared fruit ; use the 
burnt almond cream and fill with the orange-ice. 

BISCUITS GLACES. 

Take i gallon cream and put j^ of it on the fire to heat ; beat 2 
pounds sugar and the yolks of i8 eggs together until very light, 
then stir into the boiling cream and keep over the fire until thick; 
take from the fire and set to cool ; when cold add i tablespoon 
vanilla, the juice of i lemon and 2 oranges, pour in a freezer and 
freeze ; whip the remaining ^ gallon cream to a stiff froth and 
stir into the freezer; fill fancy molds or pretty paper cases with 
the mixture, pack in ice and salt, and freeze 2 hours. 

BISCUITS GLACES, NO. 2. 

Put I pound sugar and i pint water on to boil until syrup ; beat 
the yolks of 6 eggs, and add to the boiling syrup, and beat over the 
fire until thick, then strain and beat until cold, flavor with i tables 
spoon vanilla; whip i pint thick cream and stir in carefully; fill 
little paper cases with the mixture, stand them in the bottom of 
the freezer, put sheets of paper between each layer, pack the 
freezer in salt and ice and stand away for 4 hours. 

CARAMEL ICE-CREAM. 

Heat I pint milk to boiling; beat together 2 eggs, i cup sugar, 
a scant j^ cup flour; stir into the boiling milk; cook 20 minutes, 
stirring often ; put i small cup sugar in a small frying-pan, and stir 
over the fire until the sugar turns liquid and begins to smoke; turn 
into the boiling mixture, and put away to cool; when cold add i 
quart cream; strain the mixture into the freezer, and freeze; the 
flavor of this cream can be varied by browning the sugar more or 
less. 

CARAMEL ICE-CREAM NO. 2. 

Take 2 pints brown sugar, put it in an iron skillet over a brisk 
fire until it is dissolved, stirring it constantly to prevent its burn- 



ICE-CREAMS, ICES AND FROZEN FRUITS. 3 II 

ing; have I pint milk at boiling-point, and stir a little of this at a 
time into the sugar, as it shows a disposition to scorch ; strain k 
and when cool add it to 3 quarts pure cream well beaten in the 
freezer, and freeze. 

CHOCOLATE ICE-CREAM. 

Use 3 or 4 ounces common unsweetened chocolate to I gallon 
cream, or boiled custard; boil the chocolate in i pint milk and 
sweeten to taste; strain it into the cream and flavor with vanilla; 
beat the ice-cream to make it bright and rich colored. Melted 
chocolate cannot be mixed at once in cold cream, as it sets and 
makes trouble. It must be considerably diluted first. 

COCOANUT ICE-CREAM. 

One pint water, 5 eggs, 2 cups sugar, i cup prepared cocoanut, 
juice of I lemon and 2 spoons of the extract ; beat the sugar and 
eggs together and put it in the double boiler; stir it until it begins 
to thicken, and then add the cocoanut : when cold add the lemon- 
juice and I quart whipped cream ; freeze it stiff. 

COFFEE ICE-CREAM. 

To 3 quarts of pure, sweet cream add i pint of a decoction of 
very strong, clear coffee ; sugar as usual — 8 ounces to the quart. 
Freeze. 

CAFE PARFAIT. 

Take i gallon of thick, rich cream, add 2 cups sugar and i pint 
strong black coffee, whip to a froth; when stiff turn carefully into 
an ice-cream mold, press the lid down tightly, pack in ice and salt 
and freeze 3 hours. 

EGOLESS ICE-CREAM. 

Scald 2 quarts milk, wet 4 tablespoons corn-starch with cold 
milk, put into the scalding milk with 4 cups sugar, and boil until 
the taste of the corn-starch is gone ; when quite cold add i quart 
thick cream beaten stiff. Flavor with vanilla, rose or chocolate, 
and freeze. 



312 ICE-CREAMS, ICES AND FROZEN FRUITS. 

LEMON OR ORANGE ICE-CREAM. 

• Squeeze i dozen lemons, make the juice quite thick with white 
sugar, stir into it very slowly 3 quarts cream, and freeze. Orange 
ice-cream is prepared in the same way, using less sugar. 

PEACH ICE-CREAM. 

Peach ice-cream can be made like the apricot having the pint 
of peaches a very generous one. 

PINE-APPLE ICE-CREAM. 

Three pints cream, 2 large ripe pine-apples, 2 pounds powdered 
sugar; slice the pine-apples thin, scatter the sugar between the 
slices, cover and let the fruit stand 3 hours, cut or chop it up in 
the syrup, and strain through a hair-sieve or double bag of coarse 
lace; beat gradually into the cream and freeze as rapidly as possi- 
ble ; reserve a few pieces of pine-apple unsugared, cut into square 
bits, and stir through cream when half frozen, first i pint of well- 
whipped cream, and then the fruit. Peach ice-cream may be made 
in the same way. 

PISTACHIO ICE-CREAM. 

Wash I quart spinach, and put in a kettle of boiling water, boil 
and drain, pound until reduced to a pulp. Squeeze the juice out 
through a fine cloth. Blanch and pound i pound shelled pistachio 
nuts. Put ^ gallon cream and i pound sugar on to boil, stir until 
the sugar dissolves and stand away to cool. When cold add the 
nuts, the flavoring, and ^ gallon more rich cream. Mix the spinach 
juice in to color. Turn into the freezer and freeze. When hard 
remove the dasher from the freezer, beat the cream and set aside to 
harden. 

TUTTI FRUTTI. 

Make ^ gallon rich boiled custard, sweeten to taste, add 2 
tablespoons gelatine dissolved in ^ cup cold milk ; let the custard 
cool, put in freezer and, as soon as it begins to freeze, add i pound 
raisins, i pint strawberry preserves, i quart whipped cream ; stir 



ICE-CREAMS, ICES AND FROZEN FRUITS. 313 

and beat well like ice-cream. Blanched almonds or grated cocoa- 
nut are additions. Some prefer currants to raisins, and some also 
add citron chopped fine. 

VANILLA ICE-CREAM. 

One pint sugar, i pint water, 3 pints cream — not too rich — the 
yolks of 5 eggs, and i large tablespoon vanilla extract. Boil the 
sugar and water together for 25 minutes. Beat the yolks of the 
eggs with % teaspoon salt. Place the basin of boiling syrup in 
another of boiling water. Stir the yolks of the eggs into the syrup, 
and stir rapidly for 3 minutes. Take the basin from the fire, place 
it in a pan of ice-water, and beat until cold. Add the vanilla and 
cream, and freeze. 

WALNUT ICE-CREAM. 

One pint walnut meats (the American are the best) pounded fine 
in a mortar, i pint milk, i quart cream, 2 cups sugar, 4 eggs, yl 
teaspoon salt. Beat the eggs with i cup sugar. Put them and the 
milk in the double boiler, and stir constantly until the mixture 
begins to thicken ; then add the salt, and put away to cool. When 
cold, add the cream and nut meat, and freeze. 

FROZEN RICE CUSTARD. 

Wash 6 ounces rice in several waters and cook it in milk ; then 
proceied as in tapioca custard, using cinnamon or any other flavor- 
ing desired. 

FROZEN SAGO CUSTARD. 

Soak the sago in cold milk first, it will then cook in a few min- 
utes; then proceed as in tapioca custard. 

FROZEN TAPIOCA CUSTARD. 

Soak 6 or 7 ounces tapioca in i quart milk until soft ; boil 2 
quarts milk sweetened with \]^ pounds sugar, then add the tapioca 
and let it cook 15 minutes; then stir in 2 ounces butter and 8 
beaten eggS, and take the custard immediately off the fire ; cool 



314 ICE-CREAMS, ICES AND FROZEN FRUITS. 

and flavor with vanilla or lemon and freeze like ice-cream ; when 
nearly finished add i cup whipped cream and beat well. 

APPLE ICE. 

Grate, sweeten and freeze well-flavored apples, pears, peaches or 
quinces. Canned fruit may be mashed and prepared in the same 
way. 

CHERRY ICE WITH NUT CREAM. 

Two freezers will be required. For the cherry ice take 2 quarts 
sweet cherries, i quart water, lyz pounds sugar; pound the raw 
fruit in a mortar so as to break the stones, and strain the juice 
through a fine strainer into the freezer; boil the cherry pulp with 
some of the sugar and water to extract the flavor from the 
kernels, and mash that also through the strainer; add to the 
remainder of water and sugar and freeze. No eggs are needed, and 
only beat the ice enough to make it even and smooth. 

For the nut cream, use i pound of either pecan or hickory-nut 
meats, ^:( pound sugar, i quart rich milk or cream, i tablespoon 
burnt sugar for coloring; pick over the kernels carefully, that there 
be no fragments of shells to make the cream gritty, then pound 
them in a mortar with part of the sugar and a few spoons milk; 
only a few can be pounded effectually at a time; mix the milk 
with the pulp thus obtained, the rest of the sugar and caramel 
coloring, enough to make it like coffee and cream, and run it 
through a strainer into a freezer; freeze it as usual and beat 
smooth with a spatula, then pack down with more ice to freeze 
firm; line the molds with cherry ice, and fill the middle \\\i\\ the 
cream, or dish the ice as a border in shallow glasses, with the cream 
piled in the center. 

CURRANT ICE. 

Boil down 3 pints water and ij^ pounds sugar to i quart, skim, 
add 2 cups currant-juice, and when partly frozen, add the whites of 
5 eggs. 



ICE-CREA^IS, ICES AND FROZEN FRUITS. 315 

LEMON ICE. 

To I pint lemon-juice, add i quart sugar and i quart water, in 
which the thin rind of 3 lemons has been allowed to stand until 
highly flavored ; when partly frozen add the whites of 4 eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth. 

ORANGE ICE. 

Boil 3.4^ pound sugar in i quart water; when cool add the juice 
of 6 oranges; steep the rinds in a little water, strain, and flavor to 
taste with it ; the juice and rind of i or 2 lemons added to the 
orange is a great improvement ; freeze like ice-cream. 

STRAWBERRY ICE. 

Mash 2 quarts strawberries with 2 pounds sugar; let stand i 
hour or more, squeeze in a straining-cloth, pressing out all the 
juice; add an equal measure of water, and when half frozen, add the 
beaten whites of eggs in the proportion of 3 eggs to i quart. 
Raspberry ice may be made in the same way. 

GELATINE PASTE FOR ORNAMENTING ICES. 

Make clear jelly in the usual manner, then reduce it by slow 
boiling to little more than ^, color it as desired, filter again, flavor, 
and cool it on large platters ; stamp out leaves, fern leaves, flower 
shapes, etc., and have them ready to place on the molded ices as 
soon as they are turned out. 

TO COLOR ICE-CREAM OR WATER-ICES. 

For green, use juice of spinach or beet leaves. Vegetable green, 
already prepared, can be bought of the druggists. 

For yellow, saffron soaked in warm water. 

For red, take cochineal, which can be had at any druggist's, or 
made as follows: l^ ounce cochineal, pound finely and add yi pint 
boiling water, i^ ounce cream of tartar, y^^, ounce alum, and % 
ounce salt of tartar ; let it stand until the color is extracted, then 
strain and bottle. 



3l6 ICE-CREAMS, ICES AND FROZEN FRUITS. 

For purple, mix a small quantity of cochineal and ultramarine 
blue. 

For brown, use powdered chocolate. 

Other colors can be used, but these are all good, showy, and 
quite harmless. 

FROZEN APRICOTS. 

One can apricots, i generous pint sugar, i quart water, i pint 
whipped cream — measured after being whipped ; cut the apricots in 
small pieces, add the sugar and water, and freeze ; when nearly 
frozen add the cream. 

FROZEN BANANAS. 

Cut 6 large, ripe, red bananas crosswise, in very thin slices; add 
Yz pound powdered sugar to them, let them stand i hour, then add 
I quart water and the grated peel of i lemon; when the sugar is 
dissolved, put the fruit in the freezer and freeze as you would ice- 
cream. Pine-apples, oranges and berries may be served in the same 
manner. One pint cream, whipped stiff, may be added, if liked. 

FROZEN PEACHES. 

One can peaches, i heaping pint granulated sugar, t quart 
water, 2 cups whipped cream ; boil the sugar and water together 12 
minutes, then add the peaches and cook 20 minutes longer; rub 
through a sieve, and when cool, freeze; when the beater is taken 
out, stir in the whipped cream with a large spoon ; cover and set 
away until serving-time. It should stand i hour at least. 

FROZEN RASPBERRIES. 

Prepare raspberries the same as strawberries; when cold, add 
the juice of 3 lemons, and freeze. All kinds of canned and pre- 
served fruits can be prepared and frozen in any of the ways 

given. 

FROZEN STRAWBERRIES. 

Two quarts fresh strawberries, i pint sugar, i quart water; boil 
the water and sugar together Vz hour, then add the strawberries 



ICE-CREAMS, ICES AND FROZEN FRUITS. 317 

and cook 15 minutes longer; let this cool, and freeze; when the 
beater is taken out add i pint whipped cream ; preserved fruit can 
be used instead of the fresh; in this case, to each quart of preserves 
add I quart water, and freeze. 



CtiAPTPKR XIV. 



MUSHROOMS. 



The peasants of a great portion of Europe eat mushrooms raw 
with salt and dry bread, and wholesome and good they are. The 

true flavor of mushrooms, never- 
theless, is greatly heightened by 
cooking ; and cook them how you 
may — a broil, a stew, or a fry, 
with the simple addition of butter, 
salt, and pepper, and they are 
excellent. There is one rule that 
should always be observed in 
whatever mode they are cooked, 
and that is that they should be 
served up quickly and hot. The 
following modes of cooking mush- 
rooms may prove useful. 




MUSHROOMS AU GRATIX. 

Take 12 large mushrooms about 2 inches in diameter, pare the 
stalks, wash, and drain the mushrooms on a cloth ; cut off and 
chop the stalks; put in a quart stew-pan i ounce butter and ^ 
ounce flour; stir over the fire for 2 minutes ; then add i pint broth; 
stir till reduced to ^ the quantity; drain the chopped stalks of 
the mushrooms thoroughly in a cloth ; put them in the sauce with 
3 tablespoons chopped and washed parsley, i tablespoon chopped 
and washed shalot, 2 pinches salt, i small pinch pepper; reduce on 
a brisk fire for 8 minutes, put 2 tablespoons oil in a sa7ite pan, set 
the mushrooms in, the hollow part upwards; fill them with the fine 
herbs, and sprinkle over them lightly i tablespoon bread crumbs; 
put in a brisk oven for 10 minutes and serve. 

313 



MUSHROOMS. 319 

MUSHROOMS A LA PROVE^XALE. 

Take mushrooms of good size ; remove the stems and soak 
them in oHve oil ; cut up the stems with a clove of garlic and some 
parsley ; add meat of sausages, and 2 yolks of eggs to unite them ; 
dish the mushrooms, and garnish them with the forcemeat ; sprinkle 
them with fine oil, and dress them in an oven. 

MUSHROOMS A LA CREME. 

Trim and rub Yi pint button mushrooms, dissolve 2 ounces 
butter rolled in flour in a stewpan, then put in the mushrooms, i 
bunch parsley, i teaspoon salt, ^ teaspoon each of white pepper 
and powdered sugar, shake the pan round for 10 minutes, then beat 
up the yolks of 2 eggs, with 2 tablespoons cream, and add by 
degrees to the mushrooms ; in 2 or 3 minutes you can serve them 
in the sauce. 

BAKED MUSHROOMS. 

Peel the tops of 20 mushrooms ; cut off a portion of the stalks, 
and wipe them carefully with a piece of flannel, dipped in salt ; lay 
the mushrooms in a tin dish, put a small piece of butter on the 
top of each, and season them with pepper and salt ; set the dish in 
the oven, and bake from 20 minutes to ^ hour; when done, arrange 
them high in the center of a very hot dish, pour the sauce round 
them and serve quickly and as hot as you possibly can. 

BROILED MUSHROOMS. 

Arrange the mushrooms, the hollow side up, in a wire broiler, 
sift a little salt and pepper and a light shower of flour over them ; 
lay a tiny piece of butter in each one; brown the under side by 
holding the broiler, without inverting it, over a bed of glowing coals. 

BREAKFAST MUSHROOMS. 

Clean i dozen or so of medium size; place 2 or 3 ounces nice, 
clean beef-dripping in the frying-pan, and with it i tablespoon or 
more of nice beef gravy; set the pan on a gentle fire, and as the 



320 MUSHROOMS. 

dripping melts, place in the mushrooms, adding salt and pepper to 
taste; in a few minutes they will be cooked, and being soaked in 
the gravy and served upon a hot plate, will form a capital dish. 

MUSHROOMS EN CROQUETTES. 

Six large mushrooms, i small onion, 12 chestnuts, 2 eggs, i 
pinch of spice, 2 tablespoons butter. Chop the onion and fry with 
the mushrooms in butter; pound the chestnuts, spice, salt and 
pepper, and make into a paste with the eggs ; form the mushrooms 
into balls, cover them with the paste and fry in boiling oil. 

FRIED MUSHROOMS. 

Soak a few minutes in salt and water, then fry slowly in butter, 
seasoning with salt and pepper; lay them upon a dish with the 
hollow side up, and pour over them the gravy formed of the butter 
and the juice of the mushrooms. 

CURRIED MUSHROOMS. 

Peel and remove the stems from a dish of full-grown mush- 
rooms, sprinkle with salt, and add a very little butter; stew them 
gently in a little good gravy or stock ; add 4 tablespoons cream, 
and I teaspoon curry powder, previously well mixed with 2 tea- 
spoons wheat flour; mix carefully, and serve on a hot dish, with 
hot toast and hot plates attendant. The large horse-mushroom, 
when 3^ or ^ grown, and curried in this fashion, will be found to 
be delicious. 

MUSHROOMS EN CAISSE. 

Peel the mushrooms lightly, and cut them into pieces ; put 
them into cases of buttered paper, with a bit of butter, parsley, 
green onions, and shalots chopped up, salt and pepper; dress them 
on the gridiron over a gentle fire, and serve them in the cases. 

MUSHROOM CATSUP. 

Mushroom catsup is more highly esteemed and more generally 
useful than any other. It is best when made of large mushroom 



MUSHROOMS. 321 

flaps, fully ripe, fresh, and perfectly dry — that is, gathered during 
dry weather. If this point is not attended to the catsup will not 
keep. Do not wash nor skin the mushrooms, but carefully remove 
any decayed, dirty, or worm-eaten portions ; cut off about ^ inch 
from the end of the stalks, then break the rest into small pieces, 
put them into an earthen jar, and strew ^ pound salt amongst 2 
gallons mushrooms, scattering the larger portions on top ; let them 
remain all night, and the next day stir them gently with a wooden 
spoon, and repeat this 3 times a day for 2 days ; at the end of that 
time put the jar into a cool oven for y^. hour, then strain the liquid 
which flows from them through a coarse cloth, and let it boil for V^ 
hour; do not squeeze the mushrooms; to every quart of the liquid 
put Vj^ ounce each Jamaica ginger and black pepper, and i drachm 
mace ; boil again till the quantity is reduced ^ ; pour it out and let 
it stand until cool, then put it into perfectly dry bottles, being 
careful to leave the sediment, which will have settled to the 
bottom, undisturbed ; seal the corks, and keep in a cool, dry place, 

MUSHROOMS EN RAGOUT. 

Put into a stew-pan a little stock, a small quantity vinegar, 
parsley, and green onions chopped up, salt and spices ; when this 
is about to boil, the mushrooms being cleaned, put them in; when 
done, remove them from the fire, and thicken with yolks of eggs. 

MUSHROOMS WITH BACON. 

Take some full-grown mushrooms, and having cleaned them, 
procure a few rashers of nice, streaky bacon, and fry it in the usual 
manner; when nearly done, add i dozen or so mushrooms, and fry 
them slowly until they are cooked ; in this process they will absorb 
all the fat of the bacon, and with the addition of a little salt and 
pepper, will form a most appetizing breakfast relish. 

MUSHROOM STEMS, 

If young and fresh, make a capital dish when the supply of 
mushrooms is limited. Rub them quite clean, and after washing 



322 MUSHROOMS. 

them in salt and water, slice them to the thickness of a shilling, 
then place them in a sauce-pan with sufficient milk to stew 
them tender ; throw in a piece of butter and some flour for 
thickening, and salt and pepper to taste; serve upon a toast of 
bread, in a hot dish, and add sippets of toasted bread. This makes 
a light and very delicate supper dish, and is not bad sauce to a 
boiled fowl. 

TO STEW MUSHROOMS. 

Trim and rub ^ pint large button-mushrooms ; put into a stew- 
pan 2 ounces butter; shake over the fire until thoroughly melted ; 
put into the mushrooms, i teaspoon salt, ^ as much pepper, and a 
small piece of mace pounded ; stew till the mushrooms are tender, 
then serve them on a hot dish. They are usually sent in as a 
breakfast dish, thus prepared in butter. 

TO POT MUSHROOMS. 

The small open mushrooms suit best for potting. Trim and 
rub them ; put into a stew-pan i quart mushrooms, 3 ounces but- 
ter, 2 teaspoons salt and ^ teaspoon cayenne and mace mixed, and 
stew for 10 or 15 minutes, or till the mushrooms are tender; take 
them carefully out and drain them perfectly on a sloping dish, and 
when cold press them into small pots, and pour clarified butter 
over them in which state they will keep for a week or two. If 
required to be longer preserved put writing paper over the butter, 
and over that melted suet, which will effectually preserve them for 
many weeks, if kept in a dry, cool place. 

TO PICKLE MUSHROOMS. 

Select a number of small, sound, pasture mushrooms, as nearly 
as possible alike in size ; throw them for a few minutes into cold 
water ; then drain them ; cut off the stalks, and gently rub off the 
outer skin with a moist flannel dipped in salt ; then boil the vinegar, 
adding to each quart 2 ounces salt, Y^, nutmeg sliced, i drachm 
mace, and i ounce white pepper-corns ; put the mushrooms into the 
vinegar for 10 minutes over the fire ; then pour the whole into 



MUSHROOMS. 323 

small jars, taking care that the spices are equally divided ; let them 
stand a day, then cover them. 

ANOTHER METHOD. 

In pickling mushrooms, take the buttons only, and while they 
are quite close, cut the stem off even with the gills, and rub them 
quite clean. Lay them in salt and water for 48 hours, and then 
add pepper and vinegar, in which black pepper and a little mace 
have been boiled. The vinegar must be applied cold. So pickled 
they will keep for years. 

MUSHROOMS, STUFFED. 

Wash and remove the stalks from 6 large mushrooms. Simmer 
a minced onion in 2 tablespoons butter for 5 minutes, add 3^ cup 
water, i cup bread crumbs, the mushroom stalks minced fine 
pepper and salt. Simmer together 3 or 4 minutes, then dip 
gently into the hollow of the mushrooms, sprinkling some dry 
crumbs over the top and brown in a hot oven 5 minutes. 

MUSHROOM LOAF. 

Boil mushrooms in a little water and butter for 5 minutes ; then 
arrange in a deep buttered baking-dish alternate layers of mush- 
rooms and bread crumbs, seasoning each with pepper and salt, and 
pouring over the whole the liquor in which the mushrooms have 
been cooked. Bake 8 minutes in a quick oven. 

MUSHROOMS ON TOAST. 

See " Toast,'' in " Breakfast and Tea Cakes." 



CHAPTKR XV. 

MEATS. 

BOILING. 

All pieces, unless very salt, should be plunged into boiling water, 
and boiled rapidly for 15 minutes, to harden the albumen that is 
on the outside, and thus keep in the juices ; the kettle should then 
be put back where it will just simmer, for meat that is boiled 
rapidly becomes hard and stringy, while that which is kept just at 
the boiling point (where the water hardly bubbles) will cut tender 
and juicy, provided there is any juiciness in it at the beginning; 
white meats, like mutton and poultry, are improved in appearance 
by having rice boiled with them ; or, a still better way is to thickly 
flour a piece of coarse cotton cloth, pin the meat in it, and place in 
the boiling water ; meat cooked in this way will be extremely juicy. 

BROILING. 

The fire for broiling must be clear, and for meats it must be 
hotter and brighter than for fish ; coals from hard wood or charcoal 
are best, but in all large towns and cities hard coal is nearly always 
used, except in hotels and restaurants, where there is usually a 
special place for broiling with charcoal ; the double broiler is the 
very best thing in the market for broiling meats and fish ; when the 
meat is placed in it, and the slide is slipped over the handles, all 
there is to do is to hold the broiler over the fire, or, if you have an 
open range, before the fire; a fork or knife need not go near the 
meat until it is on the dish; a great amount of the juice is saved; 
with the old-fashioned gridirons it is absolutely necessary to stick a 
fork into the meat to turn it, and although there are little grooves 
for the gravy to run into, what is saved in this way does not com- 
pare with what is actually kept within the meat where the double 

324 



MEATS. 



325 



broiler is used. Professional cooks can turn a steak without run- 
ning a fork into the meat, but not one in a hundred common cooks 
can do it. 

ROASTING. 

There are two modes of roasting; one is to use a tin kitchen 
before an open fire, and the other and more common way is to use 
a very hot oven ; the former gives the more delicious flavor, but 
the second is not by any means a poor way, if the meat is put on a 
rack, and basted constantly when in the oven ; a large piece is best 
for roasting, this being especially true of beef; when meat is 
cooked in a tin kitchen it requires more time, because the heat is 
not equally distributed, as it is in the oven. 

To prepare for roasting. Wipe the meat with a wet towel ; 
dredge on all sides with salt, pepper and flour; and if the kitchen 
is used, dredge the flour into that ; run the spit through the center 
of the meat, and place very near the fire at first, turning as it 
browns ; when the flour in the kitchen is browned, add i pint of 
hot water, and baste frequently with it, dredging with salt and 
flour after each basting; roast a piece of beef weighing 8 pounds 
50 minutes, if to be rare, but if to be medium, roast i^ hours, and 
10 minutes for each additional pound. 



Loin, chump end. 

Loin, best end. 

Neck, best end. 

Neck, scrag end. 

Fillet. 

Hind knuckle. 




SECTIONS OF CALF. 



7. Fore knuckle. 

8. Breast, brisket end. 
g. Breast, best end. 

10. Blade-bone. 

11. Head. 



326 



MEATS. 




SECTIONS OF BULLOCK. 



L-. 


Cheek. 


ID. 


Sirloin. 


2. 


Neck or Sticking Piece. 


II. 


Thin Flank. 


3- 


Clod. 


12. 


Rump. 


4- 


Shin. 


13- 


Aitch-bone. 


5- 


Shoulder or Leg of Mutton Piece. 


14. 


Round or Buttock 


6. 


Chuck Ribs. 


15- 


Mouse Buttock. 


7. 


Middle Ribs. 


16. 


Veiny Piece. 


8. 


Fore Ribs. 


17. 


Thick Flank. 


9- 


Brisket. 


18. 


Leg. 




A. 


Rump. 


B. 


Mouse Buttock. 


C. 


Leg or Hock. 


D. 


Buttock or Round. 


E. 


Aitch-bone or Top. 


F. 


Sirloin. 


G. 


Fore Ribs. 


M. 


Middle Ribs. 



1. Chuck Rib. 

J. Neck, Clod, or Sticking Piece. 
K. Shin. 

L. Shoulder or Leg of Mutton Piece. 
M. Brisket. 
N. Thin Flank. 
O. Thick Flank. 
P. Veiny Piece. 



MEATS. 



327 





1. Leg. 

2. Shoulder. 

3. Breast, 

4. Chump end of loin. 



SECTIONS OF SHEEP, OR LAMB. 
5. Best end of loin. 



6. Best end of neck. 

7. Scrag end of neck. 

8. Head. 




TO CARVE AITCHBONE OF BEEF. 
In carving an aitchbone of beef it is necessary that it should be 
cut across the grain. In order to do this the knife should follow 
the line A to B in the illustration. 
The meat should be cut of a moderate 
thickness, and very evenly. Cut the 
lean and the fat in one slice, and if 
more fat is wanted, it should be taken 
horizontally from the side. Before ^^ 
proceeding to serve, a slice of about ]/^ inch in thickness should be 
cut from the top, so that the juicy part of the meat may be 
obtained at once 

TO CARVE BRISKET OF BEEF. 
The accompanying engraving represents the appearance of a 

brisket of beef ready for the table. There is no difficulty in 

carving it. The only thing to 
observe is that it should be cut 
cleanly along the bones in the 
direction indicated by the dotted 
line, with a firm hand, in moder- 
ately thick slices. Cut it close 

down to the bones, so that they may not have a rough and jagged 

appearance when removed. 




328 



MEATS. 




TO CARVE RIBS OF BEEF. 

The rib should be cut in thin 
and even slices from the thick 
end towards the thin. This 
can be more readily and cleanly 
done, if the carving-knife is 
first run along between the meat 



and the end and rib bones. 



TO CARVE SIRLOIN OF BEEF. 

A sirloin should be cut with one good, firm stroke from end to 
end cf the joint, at the upper portion, making the cut very clean 
from A, B to C. Then disengage it from the bone by a horizontal 
cut exactly to the bone, B to D, using the tip of the knife. Bad 
carving bears the hand away to the rind of the beef, eventually, 
after many cuts, 
peeling it back to 
the other side, leav- 
ing a portion of the 
best of the meat 
adhering to the 
bone. Every slice B 
should be clean and 
even, and the sir- 
loin should be cut 
fairly to the very 
end. Many persons cut the under side whilst hot, not reckoning it 
so good cold; but this is a matter of taste, and so is the mode of 
carving it. The best way is first of all to remove the fat, E, 
which chops up well to make puddings, if not eaten at table. 
Then the under part can be cut as already described, from end to 
end, F to G, or downwards as shown by the marks at H 




MEATS. 



329 



MEATS AND THEIR ACCOMPANIMENTS. 

With roast beef, grated horse-radish ; roast pork, apple sauce ; 
roast veal, tomato or mushroom sauce ; roast mutton, currant jelly ; 
boiled mutton, caper sauce; boiled chicken, bread sauce; roast 
lamb, mint sauce; roast turkey, cranberry sauce; boiled turkey, 
oyster sauce; venison or wild duck, black currant jelly; broiled 
fresh mackerel, sauce of stewed gooseberries; boiled blue-fish, 
white "cream" sauce; broiled shad, boiled rice and salad; compote 
of pigeons, mushroom sauce ; fresh salmon, green peas, " cream " 
sauce; roast goose, apple sauce. 

LEG OF MUTTON, TO CARVE. 

The leg of mutton comes to the table as shown in Fig. i. Take 
the carving-fork, as usual, in your left hand, and plant it firmly in 
the joint, as shown by A, in Fig. i, placing it rather over to the 
other side of the joint, and drawing the leg over toward you on the 
dish about i^, which brings the position of the fork from A to B. 
Cut straight down across the joint at the line marked C, not quite 
to the bone. Make the second cut a little on the slant, as shown in 
D, and take the piece out; continue cutting from each side slant- 
ingly as the line marked D, either from the thick or the knuckle 
end, according to 
the taste of the per- 
son to be helped. 
A very small piece 
of the fat should 
be given with each 
slice of meat to 
those who like it. 
The knuckle, if any 
one asks for it, is 
first cut off in a 
lump, as shown by 
the circular Hne at 
F, and afterwards in slices. Mutton should be cut thick, but it 
should not be cut to the bone ; the slice in the center should not 




330 



MEATS. 



penetrate so far as the circular kernel of fat found there, and called 
the " pope's eye," which is generally considered best to leave for 
hashing. 

The back of a leg of mutton is not generally cut until cold, 
when it is best sliced lengthwise, as shown in Fig. 2 ; the meat is 
still cut thick, but not quite so thick as in the cut previously 
described. Cold mutton should be served with mashed potatoes 

and pickles, and the 
remains hashed, as 
there is much left 
on the bone that 
-^ aM does not cut up 

C ...hiuillfll well, hot or cold. 

There is a part 
'' ' ' ""^^callcd the "crump 

bone" in a leg of 
^ mutton, which may 

be removed by a similar cut from H to J in Fig. 2 ; it is usually 
relished cold. Fig. 2 shows the joint when turned 3 parts over, 
held by the fork as previously described, and the dotted line at J 
indicates the direction of the first cut. 




MAKING TOUGH STEAK TENDER. 

Take i teaspoon of salad oil, 2 teaspoons vinegar and a very little 
cayenne pepper; lay the steak upon it and let it remain i hour; 
then turn it over and let it lie i hour. Then fry or broil as usual. 
The vinegar softens the fibre and the oil keeps it soft. Steak may 
stand over night this way if turned about 10 o'clock. Pounding 
steak is a great mistake; it breaks up the fibre, but drives out 
the juice and destroys much of its nutriment. 



BROILED BEEFSTEAK. 



To cook a good, juicy beefsteak, never pound it, have a nice 
bright fire and broil as quickly as possible, without burning; if the 
coals blaze from the drippings, sprinkle on a little salt, which will 



MEATS. 331 

instantly extinguish the flames. Steak should be turned constantly 
while broiling, and to be rare should not cook over 3 minutes; 
butter and salt after taking up. This should be served very hot. 

BEEFSTEAK FRIED. 

If you have not a broiler, steak may be cooked nearly as well 
by heating the frying-pan very hot and just greasing it with a little 
butter, or a little of the chopped suet, and lay in the steak and 
keep turning until sufficiently cooked ; then transfer to a hot 
platter and season with salt and pepper, and cover with butter and 
serve. 

BOSTON STEAK. 

Procure 2 tender porterhouse steaks, season with salt and 
pepper, baste with sweet oil, and broil rather rare of a nice color. 
Put in a sauce-pan 4 ounces fresh, white bread crumbs, dilute with 2 
ladles stock, add salt and pepper, stir and boil for 10 minutes, then 
press forcibly through a strainer; add 2 tablespoons grated 
horseradish and 2 ounces butter; stir but do not let boil. Put 
the steaks on a hot dish and serve with the sauce in a sauce-bowl. 

BEEFSTEAK AND MUSHROOMS. 

Boil the mushrooms in milk for 8 minutes, then season, add i 
tablespoon butter, and thicken with a little browned flour; lay the 
broiled beefsteak, which has been broiling meanwhile, on a plat- 
ter, and pour the mushrooms and sauce over it. 

BEEFSTEAK WITH OYSTER SAUCE. 

Have the steaks cut of an equal thickness, broil them over a 
clear fire, turning often, that the gravy may not escape ; broil from 
8 to 10 minutes, according to thickness; scald 3 dozen oysters in 
their own liquor, remove the oysters, strain the liquor and add 
sufficient milk to make 7^ pint ; thicken with 2 tablespoons flour, 
rubbed smooth in the same quantity of butter ; stir constantly 
until the sauce is thick enough and perfectly smooth ; add the 
oysters, let them get well heated but do not allow to boil; pour 
the oysters over the steak and serve. 



332 MEATS. 

BEEFSTEAK SMOTHERED WITH ONIONS. 

Melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan ; cover the bottom of 
the pan with onions sliced very thin ; then lay the steak over them. 
When the onions are fried until they are tender, put the beef on 
the bottom of the pan and cover it with the onions; add butter or 
lard as you need it. Liver cooked in this way is nice also. When 
it is done, lay it on a platter and heap the onions on the meat. A 
very little gravy made in the pan in which you have cooked the 
meat and onions is an addition, but make only a little and turn 
over the meat, seasoning it well with salt and pepper. 

BEEF SMOTHERED IN TOMATO. 

Cut an onion fine and fry it slowly in i tablespoon butter in a 
stew-pan ; add i pint tomatoes cooked and strained, i teaspoon 
salt, a little pepper and i pound beef cooked or uncooked, cut in 
small pieces. Simmer very slowly until the meat is tender. 

BEEFSTEAK PIE. 

Cut the steak into pieces i inch long, and stew with the bone 
(cracked) in just enough water to cover the meat until it is half 
done. Line a pudding-dish with a good paste. Put in a layer of 
the beef, with salt and pepper, and a very little chopped onion ; 
then one of sliced boiled potatoes, w^ith a little butter scattered 
upon them, and so on until the dish is full. Pour over all the 
gravy in which the meat is stewed, having first thrown away the 
bone and thickened with flour. Cover with a crust thicker than 
the lower, leaving a slit in the middle. 

BEEFSTEAK PIE AND PUDDING. 

Take 2 pounds rump steak, ^ pound beef kidney, ^ dozen 
mushrooms, i dozen fresh oysters and 3 eggs. Cut the meat into 
small pieces and stew gently for i hour, with a pinch of salt and 
just water enough to cover; chop the mushrooms, and boil the 
eggs hard, and cut them in slices ; line a large basin or pudding-dish 
with rich crust or puff-paste around the sides; put the meat in 



MEATS. 333 

layers with the mushrooms, sliced eggs and freshly opened oysters, 
wetting with the oyster liquor, and season pleasantly with salt and 
pepper ; have it all covered with the liquor, adding water if neces- 
sary ; but reserve the gravy from the meat to be thickened, and 
used as a dressing for the pie when served. Place the pie in the 
hottest part of the oven at first until the crust is well set, then 
remove to a cooler part where it will cook more slowly ; let it bake 
to a rich, golden brown. If a bright, glazed appearance is desired 
brush the crust with the white of an egg while baking. For pud- 
ding, make the same, then tie the dish strongly in a pudding-cloth, 
and put into boiling water and boil for 3 hours ; then allow it to 
stand out a few minutes before removing the cloth. Serve in the 
same dish, with a clean napkin pinned around it. 

BEEFSTEAK PUDDING. 

Four cups prepared flour, i cup cold water, ^ cup suet, 2 
pounds round steak, cut into pieces as for stewing; pepper, salt 
and ketchup. Free the suet from strings and rub it to powder. 
Chop it into the flour, add a pinch of salt, and work with the water 
into a paste just stiff enough to be handled. Line a round, plain 
bowl with this, first buttering the inside of the vessel. The paste 
should not be over i inch thick. Fill with the cut meat, 
sprinkling each layer with pepper and salt and dashes of ketchup. 
Cover the top with a piece of pastry cut to fit it, pinching the 
edges of the pastry, lining and covering closely together. Tie over 
all a good-sized pudding-cloth, floured liberally on the inside, and 
fastened securely, but not so tightly as to hinder the pastry's swel- 
ling. Set the mold in a pot with boiling water enough to cover it 
well. Boil hard 2 hours, taking care that the water is filled up as 
fast as it boils away. When it is done plunge it upside down for a 
second in cold water, untie the cloth, slip a dish carefully under the 
inverted mold and turn the pudding out upon it. 

BOILED CORN BEEF. 

Wash, and put into cold water, if very salt ; but such a piece as 
Dne finds in town and city shops, and which the butchers corn 



334 MEATS. 

themselves, put into boiling water and cook very slowly for 6 hours. 
This time is for a piece weighing 8 or lo pounds. When it is to be 
served cold, let it stand for i or 2 hours in the water in which it was 
boiled. If the beef is to be pressed, get either a piece of the 
brisket, flank or rattleran. Take out the bones, place in a flat dish 
or platter, put a tin sheet on top, and lay on it 2 or 3 bricks. If 
you have a corned beef press, use that, of course. 

BOILED FLANK OF BEEF. 

Wash the flank and make a bread dressing, which spread over 
it, first having salted and peppered well ; roll up and tie • wind the 
twine around it several times, then sew up in a cloth ; put a small 
plate in the kettle and put in the meat ; pour over boiling water 
enough to cover it and boil 6 hours. When done remove the cloth, 
but not the twine until cold ; then cut in thin slices. 



BEEF BALLS. 

Mince very fine a piece of tender beef, fat and lean ; mince an 
onion, with some boiled parsley ; add grated bread crumbs, and 
season with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg and lemon-peel; mix all 
together and moisten it with an egg beaten ; roll it into balls, flour 
and fry them in boiling fresh dripping. Serve them with fried 
bread crumbs. 

POT ROAST. 

Put on stove a rather thick piece of beef with little bone and 
some fat ; four hours before needed, pour on just boiling water 
enough to cover, cover with a close-fitting lid, boil gently, and as 
the water boils away add only just enough from time to time to 
keep from burning, so that when the meat is tender, the water may 
all be boiled away, as the fat will allow the meat to brown without 
burning ; turn occasionally, brown evenly over a slow fire, and make 
a gravy, by stirring flour and water together and adding to the 
drippings ; season with salt i hour before it is done. 



MEATS. 335 

ROLLED RIB ROAST. 

Either have the butcher remove the bones, or do it yourself by 
slipping a sharp knife between the flesh and bones — a simple mat- 
ter with almost any kind of meat. Roll up the piece and tie with 
strong twine. Treat the same as plain roast beef, giving the same 
time as if it were a piece of rump {i)4 hours for 8 pounds), as the 
form it is now in does not readily admit the heat to all parts. This 
piece of beef can be larded before roasting, or it can be larded and 
braised. Serve with tomato or horseradish sauce. 

ROAST BEEF, WITH YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

A rib or sirloin roast should be prepared as directed for roasting. 
When within ^ hour of being done, have the pudding made. But- 
ter a pan like that in which the meat is being cooked, and pour in 
the batter. Put the rack across the pan, not in it. Place the meat 
on the rack, return to the oven, and cook 45 minutes. If you have 
only I pan, take up the meat, pour off the gravy and put in the 
pudding. Cut in squares and garnish the beef with these. Another 
method is to have a pan that has squares stamped in it. This gives 
even squares and crust on all the edges, which baking in the flat 
pan does not. When the meat is roasted in the tin-kitchen, let the 
pudding bake in the oven for j4 hour, and then place it under the 
meat to catch the drippings. 

For the Yorkshire pudding, i pint milk, -4, cup flour, 3 eggs, 
and I scant teaspoon salt will be needed. Beat the eggs very light ; 
add salt and milk, and then pour about }4 cup of the mixture upon 
the flour ; and when perfectly smooth, add the remainder. This 
makes a small pudding, — about enough for 6 persons. Serve it hot. 

FILLET OF BEEF. 

This is to be larded and dressed with a brown mushroom sauce. 
Trim the fat off a tenderloin of beef, and if you are going to dress 
it for dinner trim off the corners somewhat ; it wants to be the 
shape of a fillet whole; a whole fillet is usually too large for a 
family dinner ; trim down the loin so it is smaller at each end ; save 



336 MEATS. 

the pieces of meat trimmed off, cut up in bits i inch square and 
make a stew with a few mushrooms or potatoes ; never by any 
means throw them away ; after the fillet is trimmed lard it by 
inserting little strips of fat salt pork over the upper surface with a 
larding needle ; after larding lay on a baking-pan with thin slices of 
salt pork under it, and put buttered paper over it to prevent burn- 
ing the pork ; bake or roast it ; it is usually served rare ; then it 
should roast 15 minutes to a pound ; if it is to be well done it should 
roast 20 minutes for each pound; season when brown, not before, 
with pepper and salt. 

FILLET OF BEEF WITH MUSHROOMS. 

To prepare the fillet at home, first remove with a sharp knife 
the muscular covering on the side of the fillet ; lard with salt pork ; 
put I small onion sliced, i carrot chopped, i stalk of celery 
cut in small pieces, and 4 cloves in the bottom of a baking-pan ; 
put the fillet on top of these, dredge with pepper, and spread over 
thick with butter, add ^ a teacup of boiling water; bake in a 
quick oven for ^ hour, basting frequently ; when done, take up and 
'.ay on a hot dish ; put in the pan i tablespoon butter rolled in 
tlour, and let brown, mix well with i pint good soup stock, let 
come to a boil, strain into a small sauce-pan, and add i pint of 
Iresh, canned or dried mushrooms ; cook 3 minutes, take from the 
i^re, add i teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, a little salt and pepper; 
pour over the fillet and serve. 

BEEF A LA MODE. ■ 

Take a round of beef, remove the bones from the middle, also 
Ail the gristle and tough parts about the edges ; have ready )4 
pound fat, salt pork, cut into strips as thick and long as your finger. 
Prepare a nice dressing the same as for stuffing a turkey. With a 
thin sharp knife make perpendicular incisions in the meat about }4 
an inch apart, thrust into them the pork, and work in with them 
some of the dressing ; proceed thus until the meat is thoroughly 
plugged. Put it into a baking pan with a little water at the bot- 
tom : cover tightly and bake slowly 4 hours; then uncover, and 



MEATS. 337 

spread the rest of the dressing over the top, and bake until a nice 
brown. After taking up, thicken the gravy and pour over the 
beef ; it should be shced horizontally; is good either hot or cold. 

BRISKET OF BEEF STEWED. 

Take 6 pounds beef, and, before dressing it, rub it over with 
vinegar and salt ; place it in a stew-pan with stock or water sufficient 
to cover it. Allow it to simmer for i hour, skimming it well all the 
time. Put in 6 each of carrots, turnips, and small onions; and 
allow all to simmer until the meat is quite tender, which will require 
about 2 hours more. As soon as it is ready the bones should be 
removed. Boil for a few minutes as much of the gravy as will be 
required with flour and a little butter, and season it with catsup, 
allspice and mace. Pour a little of it over the brisket, and send the 
remainder to the table in a separate dish. 

PRESSED BEEF. 

Boil a shin of I2 pounds meat until it falls readily from the bone ; 
pick it to pieces; mash gristle and all very fine; pick out all the 
hard bits. Set the liquor away; when cool, take off all the fat; 
boil the liquor down to i^ pints. Then return the meat to it while 
hot ; add pepper and salt and any spice you choose. Let it boil a 
few times, stirring all the while. Put into a mold or deep dish to. 
cool. Use cold and cut in thin slices for tea, or warm it for break- 
fast. 

SPICED BEEF. 

Take 7 pounds of the thin flank, salted ; remove the inside skin 
and powder the beef well with a mixture of pounded nutmeg, 
ginger, mace and cloves, also black pepper and cayenne. Roll it up 
tight and tie it with a tape, putting a skewer at each end, or roll it 
in thin muslin, to keep in the seasoning ; cover it up close in a pan 
of cold water and simmer for 4 hours. When you remove it from 
the fire place it between 2 plates, with a weight on the top, or in a 
meat presser; remove the tapes and skewers before it comes to 
table. To be eaten cold. 



33B MEATS. 

DRIED BEEF IN CREAM. 

Shave your beef very fine; pour over it boiling water; let it 
stand for a few minutes ; pour this off and pour on good rich cream; 
let it come to a boil. If you have not cream, use milk and butter, 
and thicken with a very little flour; season with pepper, and serve 
on toast or not, as you like. 

FRIZZLED BEEF. 

Shave off very thin slices of smoked or dried beef, put them in a 
frying-pan, cover with cold water, set it on the back of the range or 
stove, and let it come to a very slow heat, allowing it time to swell 
out to its natural size, but not to boil. Stir it up, then drain off the 
water. Melt i ounce sweet butter in the frying-pan, and add the 
wafers of beef. When they begin to frizzle or turn up, break over 
them 3 eggs ; stir until the eggs are cooked ; add a little white 
pepper, and serve on slices of buttered toast. 

POTTED BEEF. 

The round is the best piece for potting, and you may use both 
the upper and under part. Take lo pounds beef, remove all the 
fat, cut the lean into square pieces, 2 inches thick. Mix together 
3 teaspoons salt, i each of pepper, cloves, mace, cinnamon, all- 
spice, thyme, and sweet basil. Put a layer of the pieces of beef 
into an earthen pot, sprinkle some of this spice mixture over this 
layer, add i piece of fat salt pork, cut as thin as possible, sprinkle 
a little of the spice mixture over the pork, make another layer of 
the beef with spices and pork, and so on, until the pot is filled. 
Pour over the whole 3 tablespoons of Tarragon vinegar, or, if you 
prefer it, ^ pint Madeira wine ; cover the pot with a paste made 
of flour and water, so that no steam can escape. Put the pot into 
an oven, moderately heated, and let it stand there 8 hours ; then 
set it away to use when wanted. Beef cooked in this manner will 
keep good a fortnight in moderate weather. It is an excellent 
relish for breakfast, and may be eaten either warm or cold. When 
eaten warm serve with slices of lemon. 



MEATS. 339 

BEEF HEART. 

Wash the heart in several waters, clean the blood carefully from 
the pipes, and put it to soak in vinegar and water for 2 hours or 
more ; drain it and fill it either with ham forcemeat or sage and 
onion stuf^ng; fasten it securely, tie it in a cloth, put into a pan 
of boiling water, and let it simmer gently for 2 hours; take off the 
cloth and roast the heart while hot, basting it plentifully with good 
dripping for 2 hours longer ; serve with good brown gravy and 
currant jelly. The stewing may be omitted and the heart simply 
roasted for 3 or 4 hours, but the flesh will not then be so tender. 

BOILED BEEF TONGUE. 

Put a fresh tongue on the fire with just cold water enough 
to cover it, and with it i carrot, i onion, i bay-leaf, 2 slices 
lemon, some black pepper, salt and a little garlic. Let it simmer 
gently for about 2 hours till quite tender. Skin and trim it. Either 
serve it whole or cut it in slices, and arrange in a ring with the 
following thick sauce in the center: Strain the liquor in which the 
tongue was cooked (this should be reduced by simmering to a mere 
gravy) ; brown i large tablespoon flour in a good sized piece of 
butter; braise 2 or 3 cloves of garlic, and let them steam a little 
while in the browning ; then add the strained gravy by degrees, 
stirring it quite smooth. Add a little lemon-juice or vinegar; and 
whether it be served whole or sliced, dish the sauce with the tongue. 
If garlic is objected to, make a sauce of grated horse-radish, a carrot 
bruised fine, capers and a little wine. Garnish with lemon-slices and 
parsley. 

PRESSED TONGUE. 

« 

Cover a large beef tongue with cold water, put on the stove 
and let sim.mer 4 hours, take up and stand away to cool ; boil the 
liquor until reduced to i pint; chop the tongue in small pieces: 
add to it % teaspoon ground cloves, y^ teaspoon ground mace, ]4 
teaspoon each of ground cinnamon, allspice and white pepper, i 
teaspoon salt and a small pinch of cayenne pepper; mix well and 



340 MEATS. 

press in a square can or mold ; add to the boiling liquor 3 table- 
spoorrs vinegar, pour over the meat, press down and set in a cool 
place 10 hours; then loosen the sides, turn it out carefully, and 
slice thin when ready to serve. 

BAKED TONGUE. 

Parboil and skin the tongue as for roasting; trim it neatly; 
mince 2 boiled onions and i bunch parsley together; mix with 
these 3 tablespoons fine cracker-crumbs seasoned with as much 
cayenne as desired, according to taste, i blade mace and 6 pounded 
cloves ; spread the seasoned crumbs over the tongue and cover . 
them with the thinnest possible slices of bacon : roll the tongue 
with the thick part in the middle, put it in a small baking-pan, 
cover it with broth, and bake it slowly in the oven from 3 to 4 
hours; when done put it in a mold and press till cold. If the thin 
portion of tongue is not eaten it may be preserved to grate for 
seasoning omelets and forcemeats. 

TONGUE CHEESE. 

Take i beef tongue, 2 calves' livers, 3 pounds salt pork, and 
boil until thoroughly cooked ; mince together very fine, season ta 
taste with spices, press the mass into a pan and allow to get cold; 
slice thin and serve upon a napkin in a lunch-dish. 

TO BOIL TRIPE. 

Wash it well in warm water, and trim it nicely, taking ofT 
the fat ; cut into small pieces, and put it on to boil 5 hours before 
dinner in water enough to cover it very well; after it has boiled 4 
hourS, pour off the water, season the tripe with pepper and salt, 
and put it into a pot with milk and water mixed in equal quanti- 
ties; boil it I hour in the milk and water. 

Boil in a sauce-pan 10 or 12 onions; when they are quite soft, 
drain them in a colander, and mash them ; wipe out your sauce-pan 
and put them on again, with a bit of butter rolled in flour and i 
wine-glass cream or milk; let them boil up, and add them to the 



MEATS. 341 

tripe just before you send it to table ; eat it with pepper, vinegar 
and mustard. 

It is best to give tripe its first and longest boiling the day before 
it is wanted. 

TRIPE FRIED IN BATTER. 

Two beaten eggs, well-seasoned with pepper and salt, i pound 
tripe ; cut the tripe into small squares, dip in the egg, roll in flour, 
drop in hot lard, and fry to a nice brown. 

TRIPE A LA LYONNAISE, WITH TOMATOES. 

This economical dish, which is in reach of every family, is also 
ver>' fine. Take 2 pounds dressed and boiled tripe, cut into small 
strips 2 inches long, and put into a sauce-pan ; parboil and drain off 
the first water; chop i small onion fine, and let all stew 20 minutes; 
add ^2 cup thickening, and then stir in j4 can tomatoes; season 
with salt and pepper. This dish has become very popular in all the 
hotels throughout the country. 

BEEF KIDNEYS. 

One kidney, 2 tablespoons parsley, lemon-juice ; cut the kidney 
into dice, and stew it gently in j4 P^i water for 2 hours; chop the 
parsley, and add it with lemon-juice, salt and pepper to the above, 
j4 hour before serving; garnish with mushrooms or French beans. 

BROILED LIVER. 

Cut into thin slices, brush over with a little melted butter, 
season with pepper and salt, and toast to a nice brown on both 
sides. 

FRIED LIVER. 

Cut in thin slices, drain, roll in meal or cracker crumbs, and fry 
to a nice brown in hot lard or in a buttered frying-pan. 

RAGOUT OF LIVER. 

Heat 3 or 4 spoons nice dripping in a frying-pan ; add i onion, 
sliced, I tablespoon chopped parsley, and twice as much breakfast 



342 MEATS. 

bacon ; when all are hissing hot, lay in the liver cut in pieces as 
long and wide as your middle finger and fry brown, turning often ; 
take out the liver and keep warm in a covered hot water dish ; 
strain out the gravy, rinse out the frying-pan, and return to the fire 
with the gravy and i even tablespoon butter worked up well in 2 
of browned flour. Stir until you have a smooth, brown ro2ix, thin 
gradually with ^ cup boiling water and the juice of >^ lemon, add 
I teaspoon minced pickle and a scant ^^ teaspoon curry powder 
wet with cold water. Boil sharply, pour over the liver, put fresh 
boiling water in the pan under the dish, and let all stand closely 
covered for lO minutes before serving. 

BRAISED VEAL. 

Take a piece of the shoulder weighing about 5 pounds ; have 
the bone removed and tie up the meat to make it firm ; put a piece 
of butter the size of Yz an egg, together with a few shavings of 
onion, into a kettle or stone crock and let it get hot ; salt and 
pepper the veal and put it into the kettle, cover it tightly and put 
it over a medium fire until the meat is brown on both sides, turning 
it occasionally ; then set the kettle back on the stove, where it will 
simmer slowly for about 2^ hours; before setting the meat back 
on the stove, see if the juice of the meat together with the butter 
do not make gravy enough, and if not, put in about 2 tablespoons 
hot water; when the gravy is cold it will be like jelly; it can be 
served hot with the hot meat, or cold with the cold meat. 

COLLARED BREAST OF VEAL. 

Bone a breast of veal ; lay it on the table and spread on it a 
thick layer of oyster forcemeat (see oyster forcemeat); roll the veal 
as tightly as possible, and bind it with a tape; put it into boiling 
water; let it boil up once; skim the liquor carefully; set the sauce- 
pan back and simmer the contents gently until done ; put the bones 
into a separate saucepan with a moderate-sized onion, a bunch of 
swe.et herbs, and a little pepper and salt ; let them simmer till the 
liquor is strong and pleasantly flavored ; strain it. thicken with a 
little flour and butter, and stir into it 2 or 3 tablespoons thick 



MEATS. 



343 



cream, or, if milk has to be used, beat into it the yolk of an egg; 
serve the meat on a hot dish with the sauce poured over; this dish 
may be garnished with forcemeat balls, and with the sweetbreads 
cut into slices, egged, and bread-crumbed and fried ; or a little 
parsley and sliced lemon may be used instead ; the meat may be 
baked instead of boiled, and then a little weak stock should be put 
into the pan with it, and it should be basted frequently. 

ROASTED BREAST OF VEAL. 

If the sweetbread is retained, skewer it to the back; season and 
cover with a buttered paper ; put it into a moderate oven and baste 
liberally till it is done; when it is roasted about i}'2 hours, remove 
the paper, flour the joint and let it brown ; serve on a hot dish 
with melted butter poured over; garnish with sliced lemon. Force- 
meat balls may be served with the veal and mushroom sauce sent 
to the table with it. Time, 20 minutes to the pound. 

VEAL CHOPS. 

Trim off superfluous fat and gristle, and broil over a clear fire. 
Place on a hot dish, pepper, salt and butter each one and sprinkle 
with minced parsley. 

VEAL COLLOPS. 

Cut meat from the lean part of veal into pieces the size of an 
oyster. Have a seasoning of salt, pepper and a little mace mixed, 
rub some over each piece, dip in egg, then into cracker crumbs, and 
fry like oysters. 

FRIED VEAL CUTLETS. 
Put into a frying-pan 2 or 3 tablespoons lard or beef drippings. 
When boiling hot lay in the cutlets, well seasoned with salt and 
pepper, and dredged with flour. Brown nicely on both sides, then 
remove the meat, and if you have more grease than is necessary for 
the gravy, put it aside for further use. Reserve i tablespoon or 
more, and rub into it i tablespoon flour, with the back of the spoon, 
until it is a smooth, rich, brown color; then add gradually i cup 



344 



MEATS. 



cold water and season with pepper and salt. When the gravy is 
boiled up well return the meat to the pan and gravy. Cover it 
closely and allow it to stew gently on the back of the range for 15 
minutes. This softens the meat, and with this gravy it makes a 
nice breakfast dish. 

Another mode is to simply fry the cutlets, and afterward turning 
off some of the grease they were fried in and then adding to that 
left in the pan a few drops of hot water, turning the whole over the 
fried chops. 

BROILED VEAL CUTLETS. 

Two or 3 pounds veal cutlets, egg and bread-crumbs, 2 table- 
spoons minced savory herbs, salt and pepper to taste, a little grated 
nutmeg. 

Cut the cutlets about ^{ inch thick, flatten them, and brush 
them over with the yolk of an egg ; dip them into bread-crumbs and 
minced herbs, season with pepper and salt, and fold each cutlet in a 
piece of white letter paper well buttered ; twist the ends, and broil 
over a clear fire ; when done remove the paper. Cooked this way, 
they retain all the flavor. 

BOILED FILLET OF VEAL. 

Choose a small, delicate fillet ; prepare as for roasting, or stuff 
it with an oyster forcemeat ; after having washed it thoroughly, 
cover it with water and let it boil very gently 3^ or 4 hours, keeping 
it well skimmed. Send it to the table with a rich white sauce, or, 
if stuffed with oysters, a tureen of oyster sauce. Garnish with 
stewed celery and slices of bacon. A boiled tongue should be 
served with it. 

ROAST FILLET OF VEAL. 

Select a nice fillet, take out the bone, fill up the space with 
stufifing, and also put a good layer under the fat. Truss it of a 
good shape by drawing the fat round, and tie it up with tape. 
Cook it rather moderately at first, and baste with butter. It should 
have careful attention and frequent basting, that the fat may not 



MEATS. 345 

burn. Roast from 3 to 4 hours, according to the size. After it is 
dished, pour melted butter over it ; serve with ham or bacon, and 
fresh cucumbers, if in season. Veal, like all other meat, should be 
well washed in cold water before cooking and wiped thoroughly dry 
with a clean cloth. Cold fillet of veal is very good stewed with 
tomatoes and an onion or two. 

In roasting veal, care must be taken that it is not at first placed 
in too hot an oven ; the fat of a loin, one of the most delicate joints 
of veal, should be covered with greased paper; a fillet, also, should 
have on the caul until nearly done enough. 

FRICASSEED VEAL. 

Put the veal in a dry kettle with a lump of butter in the bottom, 
and fry for 15 minutes. Then add just enough water to cover the 
meat, and simmer slowly until done. Thicken the liquor with cream 
and flour, precisely as for fricasseed chicken, and you have a dish 
little inferior to the latter. 

FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. 

Take a 4-pound fillet of veal, trim into a nice shape, and lard on 
top. Put thin slices of pork into a braising-kettle or sauce-pan, lay 
over sliced carrot, i stalk of celer>^, some parsley, and i onion with 
cloves stuck in it. Put the meat on top of the vegetables, sprinkle 
over pepper and salt. Fill the kettle with boiling stock to cover 
the meat. Cover with a tight lid and bake in a moderate oven 2^ 
hours. 

calf's head, boiled. 

Take a calf's head, cut it in two, and take out the brains ; wash 
the head in several waters, and let it soak in warm water for ^ 
hour ; place it in a sauce-pan of cold water, and when the water 
comes to a boil, skim carefully ; season when nearly done ; half a 
head, without the skin, will require from ij4 to 2 hours; it must 
stew gently till tender ; if you wish it full dressed, score it super- 
ficially, beat- up the yolk of an egg, and rub it over the head with a 
feather ; powder it with a seasoning of finely-minced or dried and 



346 MEATS. 

powdered winter savory, thyme, or sage, parsley, pepper and salt, 
and bread crumbs, and brown in the oven ; when dry, pour melted 
butter over. You may garnish the dish with broiled rashers of bacon. 

calf's brains a la ravigote. 

Wash the brain in several waters, and free them from skin and 
fibre; boil them for 10 minutes in salt and water mixed with i 
tablespoon vinegar, and when they are firm, cut them in slices, dip 
them in a batter, and fry them to a light brown. Place them in a 
circle on a hot dish with a little fried parsley in the center, and 
send ravigote sauce (see Sauces and Catsups) to table with them. 

calf's head cheese. 

Boil I calf's head in water enough to cover it, until the meat 
leaves the bones; then take it with a skimmer into a wooden bowl 
or tray ; take from it every particle of bone, chop it small, season 
with pepper and salt — i heaping tablespoon salt and i of pepper 
will be suf^cient ; if liked, add i tablespoon finely-chopped sweet 
herbs; lay in a cloth in a colander, put the minced meat into it, 
then fold the cloth closely over it, lay a plate over it, and on it a 
gentle weight ; when cold it may be sliced thin for supper or sand- 
wiches ; spread each slice with made mustard. 

calf's liver roasted. 

Procure a fine liver and lard it according to directions given for 
larding other meats, and let it stand 24 hours in a pickle made as 
follows : Diluted vinegar enough to cover the liver (if the vinegar is 
very strong, use ]A^ water, if not strong use less water), i onion 
sliced, I tablespoon each of chopped thyme and parsley, salt and 
pepper to taste; bake in a hot oven; put i cup hot water, in which 
you have put i tablespoon butter, into the baking-pan, and baste 
often; will require from i to 2 hours to bake, according to size; 
serve with a brown sauce. This may seem like a complicated 
recipe for such a common-place dish, but I hope you will give it a 
fair trial if you eat liver at all. 



MEATS. 



STEWED LIVER. 



347 



One pound liver, cut into inch squares, % pound chopped salt 
pork, I good-sized onion, minced fine, i tablespoon sweet herbs; 
sprinkle the meat thickly with the onion, herbs and a little pepper ; 
place it in a tin pail with a closely-fitting cover, and set this in 
an outer vessel of cold water; bring this to a boil and let it cook 
steadily 2 hours; uncover the inner pail, transfer the liver with a 
split spoon to a hot dish, thicken the gravy left in the pail with 
browned flour, boil up and pour over the liver. 

calf's heart, roasted. 

Wash the heart very clean, soak it in vinegar and water, fill it 
with a forcemeat made of 4 ounces bread-crumbs, 2 ounces butter, 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley, yi teaspoon finely-minced lemon- 
rind, and a little salt and cayenne ; fasten the heart securely and 
bake for 2 hours; serve it with good melted butter, mixed with i 
tablespoon lemon-juice or vinegar. A calf's heart is improved by 
partially boiling before it is roasted. 

calf's heart, fried. 

Wash and soak the heart, cut it into slices about % inch thick 
and fry these in a little hot dripping or butter; about 5 minutes 
before they are done put i slice bacon into the pan for each slice 
of heart, and when they are sufficiently cooked, serve on a hot dish 
and cover each piece of heart with i slice bacon ; boil 2 or 3 
tablespoons thin flour and water in the pan in which the meat was 
fried ; season it with pepper and salt, add i tablespoon red currant 
jelly, and serve as hot as possible; the slices of heart will fry in 15 
minutes. 

VEAL loaf. 

Four pounds chopped veal, J^ pound salt pork, chopped fine, 4 
eggs, 4 tablespoons bread crumbs, % pint milk, i^ teaspoons salt, 

3 teaspoons sage, ]4, teaspoon black pepper ; mix thoroughly, put 
Vi a bread-pan, spread the top with butter and bake 3 hours. 



34^' MEATS. 



VEAL AND HAM PIE. 



Stew about 2 pounds veal, very slowly, for i hour, then cut it 
into pieces the size of a walnut, also partially cook ^ pound ham, 
or good streaky bacon. Put a layer of the veal — which ought to 
be lean — at the bottom of the pie-dish, and sprinkle over a season- 
ing of grated lemon-rind, powdered mace, and finely minced savory 
herbs ; lay upon these a few small pieces of the ham, or bacon, with 
some slices of hard-boiled eggs, and repeat in alternate layers till 
the dish is sufificiently full, letting ham form the topmost layer. A 
good pinch of pepper may be added to the above seasoning, but 
very little salt, as the ham generally provides sufficient. Pour over 
the whole 5^ pint stock and cover with a crust. An excellent 
gravy may be made by stewing the veal bones, either in stock or 
water — the former of course to be preferred — with i onion, i 
bunch of savory herbs, i blade of mace, and about i inch of lemon 
rind ; season with salt and pepper, strain, and serve. 

VEAL OLIVES. 

Three pounds veal cutlet, cut into slices about 6 inches long, by 
3 wide; i pint oysters; i cup forcemeat, made of fine bread crumbs 
and a little fat salt pork minced very small, moistened with the 
oyster liquor and seasoned with pepper, salt and sweet herbs. 
Spread each slice of veal with the forcemeat, lay a couple of small 
oysters, or a large one in the centre, roll up the meat with the 
oyster inside and pin the roll with a small skewer. Lay them in a 
dripping pan, pour over them a cup of boiling water in which has 
been melted i tablespoon butter, bake covered for i hour, basting 
frequently with the gravy, uncover and brown. Keep the olives 
warm while you thicken the gravy with browned flour and season 
it with 2 tablespoons tomato ketchup. Pour the gravy around the 
olives in the dish. 

VEAL POT-PIE. 

Take a boiling piece of veal and, when nearly done, add dump- 
lings made in this way : Take 2 cups sifted flour, 2 good teaspoons 



MEATS. 349 

baking powder, a little salt, and mix into a very stiff dough with 
rich, sweet milk ; roll out and cut into squares and drop in with the 
boiling meat, and keep them boiling 20 minutes. If these directions 
are followed there will be no heavy dumplings, they will be just as 
light warmed over for another meal. After taking up the meat and 
dumplings, make the gravy rich by adding a good piece of butter 
and a little flour wet in milk. 

SWEETBREADS. 

There are 2 in a calf, which are considered delicacies. Select 
the largest. The color should be clear and a shade darker than the 
fat. Before cooking in any manner let them lie for yi hour in tepid 
water ; then throw into hot water to whiten and harden, after 
which draw off the outer casing, remove the little pipes, and cut 
into thin slices. They should always be thoroughly cooked. 

STEWED SWEETBREADS. 

Soak 2 sweetbreads in cold water for i hour, change the water 
twice, put them in boiling water 10 minutes till they are firm, then 
take them out and place them in cold water until wanted ; place 
them in a stew-pan, cover them with stock and simmer nearly i 
hour; take them out, place them on a hot dish, remove the gravy 
from the fire a minute, and add to it gradually the yolk of i egg 
and 4 tablespoons cream; put this over afire till the sauce thickens, 
but do not let it boil; before serving add the juice of i lemon, 
pour the sauce around the sweetbreads, and send to table with a 
dish of green peas; they may be cut up and fried after dipping in 
^^g and rolled in crumbs. Sweetbreads are very nice broiled and 
served with Maitre d'HoU/ hntter] garnish with parsley. 

SWEETBREADS AND CAULIFLOWERS. 

Take 4 large sweetbreads and 2 cauliflowers ; split open the 
sweetbreads and remove the gristle; soak them a while in luke- 
warm water, put them into a sauce-pan of boiling water, and set 
them to boil 10 minutes; afterwards lay them in a pan of cold 
water to make them firm ; the parboiling is to whiten them ; wash. 



350 MEATS. 

drain and quarter the cauliflowers ; put them in a broad stew-pan, 
with the sweetbreads on them ; season with a little cayenne and a 
little nutmeg, and add water to cover them ; put on the lid of the 
pan, and stew i hour; take % pound fresh butter and roll it in 2 
tablespoons flour; add this with i cup milk to the stew, and give it 
one boil up and no more ; serve hot, in a deep dish. This stew will 
be found delicious. 

TOMATO SWEETBREADS. 

Cut up % peck fine ripe tomatoes ; set them over the fire, and 
let them stew in nothing but their own juice till they go to pieces, 
then strain them through a sieve; have ready 4 or 5 sweetbreads 
that have been trimmed nicely and soaked in warm w^ater; put 
them into a stew-pan with the tomato-juice, and a little salt and 
cayenne; add 2 or 3 tablespoons butter, rolled in flour; set the 
sauce-pan over the fire, and stew the sweetbreads till done; a few 
minutes before you take them up, stir in 2 beaten yolks of eggs ; 
serve the sweetbreads in a deep dish, with the tomato poured over 
them. 

VOL AU VENT OF SWEETBREADS. 

Make rich puff paste and stand on ice all night ; the next morn- 
ing roll out Yt^ inch thick; cut out as many cakes as are required 
with a tin circular cutter about 2 inches in diameter; take a second 
cutter I inch smaller, press into the tops of the little patties, 
allowing it to sink ^ way through the crust ; brush the tops with 
beaten egg; put on ice, and let it stand until very cold, then put in 
a hot oven and bake ; when done remove the pieces marked out 
with a sharp pen-knife ; scrape out the center, fill with nicely-cooked 
sweetbreads, replace the tops, and set away until ready to serve. 

LAMB CHOPS, BROILED. 

Cut the chops about ]/> inch thick, trim them neatly, removing 
the superfluous fat, place them on a hot gridiron over a clear fire 
and brown them nicely on both sides. Season them with salt and 
pepper, and serve as hot as possible. Garnish with parsley. 



MEATS. 351 

Mashed potatoes, asparagus, green pease, or spinach, are usually- 
served with lamb chops. 

LAMB CHOPS, FRIED. 

Cut a loin or neck of lamb into chops from ^ to 3^ inch in 
thickness. Dip each one into beaten egg and afterward into bread- 
crumbs, flavored as follows: Mix 3 ounces finely grated bread- 
crumbs with I saltspoon salt, yi saltspoon pepper, i tablespoon 
finely chopped parsley and Y^ teaspoon finely minced lemon-rind. 
Fry the chops in good drippings until lightly browned on both 
sides. Serve on a hot dish and garnish with slices of lemon or 
crisp parsley. 

LAMB CUTLETS. 

Trim the slices free from fat, beat up the yolk of i egg with 
rasped bread or crackers, season with pepper and salt, dip in the 
cutlets and fry in butter gently, until thoroughly done. 

ROAST QUARTER OF LAMB. 

Trim the joint and skewer 3 or 4 slices bacon securely to the 
outer side, brush 3 ounces clarified butter over the inner part and 
strew upon it a thick covering of 
finely grated bread-crumbs sea- 
soned with pepper, salt and a little 
finely minced parsley. Put in the 
oven, and when nearly done re- 
move the bacon and baste the W^ 
meat with the beaten yolk of egg^^ 
mixed with gravy, throw some 
more bread-crumbs over it and let it remain until nicely browned. 
If liked, squeeze the juice of i lemon over it and serve with mint 
sauce. 

FRICASSEE OF LAMB. 

Take a breast of lamb and cut it into pieces about 13^ inches 
square ; season with salt and pepper. Put them into a sauce-pan, 




352 MEATS. 

with a quartered onion, 3 cloves, i bay-leaf, and 3 ounces butter. 
Cover the sauce-pan closely, and let it steam gently for yi hour, 
shaking it occasionally to prevent sticking. Add i pint boiling 
water; cover closely once more and boil gently for i hour; then 
strain the sauce and thicken with i tablespoon flour (mix the flour 
smoothly with a little cold water before adding it to the sauce), 
boil a moment longer, and serve. A tablespoon of very small 
capers may be added before serving. 

BREAST OF LAMB WITH ASPARAGUS TOPS. 

Remove the skin and part of the fat from a breast of lamb, and 
cut it into neat pieces; dredge a little flour over them, and place 
them in a stew-pan with i ounce butter ; let them remain until 
nicely browned ; cover the meat with warm water, add i bunch 
parsley, 2 button onions; simmer until the meat is cooked; skim 
off the fat, take out the onions and parsley, and mince the latter 
finely ; return it to the gravy with i pint of the tops of boiled 
asparagus, add salt and pepper, simmer a few minutes longer, and 
serve. Canned asparagus may be used when the fresh vegetable is 
out of season. 

LAMB PIE. 

Take some cutlets from the upper portion of a leg of lamb, and 
cut them into pieces about 3 inches square ; season slightly with 
salt and pepper; let them stew in a very little water for ^ hour; 
in the meantime prepare a delicate paste, allowing i pound butter 
to I pound flour, adding water gradually enough to make a dough; 
when in readiness, the upper crust should be the thickest ; put in 
the stewed lamb with its gravy, intersperse some blades of mace, 
add a few sliced potatoes and boiled turnips, cover the meat lightly 
with some chopped boiled celery and pieces of butter, or for the 
celery boiled cauliflower may be substituted, seasoned with nutmeg. 

SADDLE OF LAMB. 

A saddle of lamb is a dainty joint for a small party. Sprinkle a 
little salt over it, and set it in the dripping-pan, with a few small 



MEATS. 353 

pieces of butter on the meat ; baste it occasionally with tried-out 
lamb-fat ; dredge a little flour over it a few minutes before taking 
from the oven. Serve with the very best of currant jelly, and send 
to table with it a few choice early vegetables. Mint sauce may be 
served with the joint, but in a very mild form. 

STEWED LAMB WITH GREEN PEASE. 

Take 2 pounds lamb, put it into a stew-pan and cover with cold 
water; after removing the scum add a little pepper and salt, then 
let the meat stew for 13^ hours or nearly 2 hours; now add some 
boiling water (to make gravy) ; add your green pease (^ peck 
before shelling) ; let these cook about 20 minutes; stir up i table- 
spoon flour into ^ cup milk and mix with the stew ; let this cook 2 
minutes. 

LAMB SWEETBREADS AND TOMATO SAUCE. 

Lamb sweetbreads are not always procurable, but a stroll 
through the markets occasionally reveals a small lot of them, which 
can invariably be had at a low price, owing to their excellence being 
recognized by but few buyers. Wash them well in salted water 
and parboil 15 minutes ; when cool, trim neatly and put them in a 
pan with just butter enough to prevent their burning; toss them 
about until a delicate color; season with salt and pepper and serve, 
surrounded with tomato sauce. See ^'Sauce's," 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Cook, as directed, in boiling water to cover. A leg that weighs 
8 or 9 pounds will cook in i^ hours if it is wanted done rare. 
Allow 5 minutes for every additional pound. Save the water for 
soups. 

BOILED BREAST OF MUTTON. 

Take out the bones, gristle, and some of the fat ; flatten it on 
the kneading-board, and cover the surface thinly with a forcemeat 
made of bread crumbs, minced savory herbs, a little chopped 
parsley, pepper, salt and i egg. The forcemeat should not be 
spread too near the edge, and when rolled, the breast should be 

23 



354 MEATS. 

tied securely, to keep the forcemeat in its place. If gently boiled, 
and served hot, it will be generally liked. Serve with good caper 
sauce. 

BREAST OF MUTTON WITH PEASE. 

Cut about 2 pounds of the breast of mutton into small, square 
pieces ; put them into a stew-pan with about i ounce butter, and 
brown them nicely, then cover with weak broth or water, and stew 
for an hour; remove the meat from the stew-pan, and clear the 
gravy from fat ; put the meat into a clean stew-pan, add i onion 
or shallot sliced finely, a bunch of sweet herbs, some pepper and 
salt, and strain the gravy overall; stew for another hour, then put 
in I quart young pease, and serve in about 20 minutes. Macaroni 
may be used in the place of pease. 

BAKED MUTTON CHOPS AND POTATOES. 

Wash and peel some potatoes and cut them into thin slices ; 
after which wash them in 2 or 3 waters, then arrange them neatly in 
layers in a brown stone dish proper for baking purposes ; sprinkle 
a little salt and pepper between each layer, and add a sufficient 
quantity of cold water to prevent their burning ; place in a hot 
oven — on the top shelf — so as to brown the potatoes in a few 
minutes ; have ready some nice loin chops ; trim off most of the 
fat ; make them into a neat round shape by putting a small skewer 
through each ; when the potatoes are nicely browned, remove the 
dish from the oven, and place the ch6ps on the top ; add a little 
more salt and pepper and water if required, and return the dish to 
a cooler part of the oven, where it may be allowed to remain until 
sufficiently cooked, which will be in about ^ of an hour. When 
the upper sides of the chops are a nice crisp brown, turn them over 
so as to brown the other side also. If, in the cooking, the potatoes 
appear to be getting too dry, a little hot water may be gently 
poured in at the corner of the dish. Serve in same dish, as turn- 
ing the potatoes out would spoil their appearance. Those who have 
never tasted this dish have no idea how delicious it is. 



MEATS. 355 

BROILED MUTTON CHOPS. 

Sprinkle the chops with salt, pepper, and flour; put them in the 
double broiler; broil over or before the fire for 8 minutes; serve on 
a hot dish with butter, salt, and pepper or tomato sauce ; the fire 
for chops should not be so hot as for steak. Chops can be seasoned 
with salt and pepper, wrapped in buttered paper, and broiled 
10 minutes over a hot fire. 

FRIED MUTTON CHOPS. 

First select well-fed mutton, but not too fat, and get the chops 
evenly cut ; if not, beat them into shape with the chopper; not 
more than ^^ of the chop should be fat ; put i ounce butter or 
lard into the frying-pan ; when it is entirely melted seize the chop 
at the bone end with a fork, and dip it for yi minute into the fat, 
then turn on one side, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and if liked, 
finely chopped shallot or onion, and savory herbs ; in 3 minutes 
turn, and serve the other side the same ; equalize the cooking by 
frequent turning, but give the chop altogether not more than 10 
minutes. A piece of garlic, if the flavor be approved, may be 
rubbed across the dish when hot, or it may be rubbed lightly across 
the chop. Serve with plain or maitre cT Jiotel butter. 

BROILED CHOPS AU FRANCAIS. 

Trim the fat and gristle from the chops and broil them 10 
minutes over a hot fire, turning them often and watching that they 
do not smoke ; have ready a puree of potatoes, made of I cup 
mashed potatoes, beaten light with i egg, i teaspoon butter, ^ cup 
milk, and a sprinkling of salt and pepper; lay the chops in a 
baking-pan, and put i spoon of the potato on top of each ; set in a 
quick oven long enough to brown the potato, and serve at once, 
before it falls. 

CURRY OF MUTTON. 

Put 6 button onions, cut fine, and i ounce butter into a sauce- 
pan with I ounce curry-powder, i teaspoon salt, i tablespoon flour, 
and Yz pint cream; stir until smooth; remove the bones from 2 



356 MEATS. 

pounds mutton, cut it into neat pieces, and fry a light brown ; put 
the meat into a sauce-pan, pour the sauce over it, and boil gently 
i}4 hours; place the meat on a hot dish, and arrange a border of 
boiled rice neatly round it. Cold boiled mutton, cut into slices, 
may be used instead of the raw meat. Veal may be used instead 
of mutton. 

MUTTON CUTLETS WITH PROVINCALE SAUCE. 

Use j^ oi a. medium-sized onion, i tablespoon butter ; put over 
the fire and gradually add i spoon flour, i cup water, j4 cup thyme, 
season with pepper and salt and stir constantly ; add the yolks of 
2 raw eggs and cook until about as thick as cream ; this sauce can 
be used on cold meats, or in cooking raw meat. When used in 
cooking cutlets or other meats, the meats should be very slightly 
cooked on both sides in a hot skillet, then have a pot of fat large 
enough for the meat to swim in. Dip the cutlets in the sauce and 
put them in the boiling fat. Take them out and roll in cracker 
dust and bread-crumbs ; put them back, and do this occasionally 
until the meat floats on top of the fat. They are done. 

MUTTON CUTLETS A LA MINUTE. 

The mutton for these cutlets should be cut from the middle of 
the leg, and sliced thin ; season slightly with salt and pepper ; fry 
the meat quickly over a brisk fire, to make it crisp, turning it 
often ; let the cutlets be kept warm in the oven while the gravy is 
preparing; have ready some mushrooms, chopped with i shallot, a 
sprig or two of parsley and thyme, minced fine. Stew these in the 
butter for a few minutes, and season with salt and pepper ; add 
flour and water, strain and serve round the cutlets. 

MUTTON CUTLETS AND PUREE OF POTATOES. 

Boil or steam 2 pounds mealy potatoes, mash them smooth, put 
them into a stew-pan with 2 or 3 ounces butter, 2 or 3 tablespoons 
cream or broth, pepper and salt ; make them hot, and pile them in 
the center of a hot dish. The cutlets may be bread-crumbed and 
fried, or, if preferred, broiled and served round the puree. 



MEATS. 357 

LEG OF MUTTON WITH CAPER SAUCE. 
Cut off the shank bone, put it into a large stew-pan or kettle, 
with as much boiling water as will cover it ; when restored to its 
boiling state, skim the surface clean, and set the stew-pan back and 
allow the contents to simmer until done ; allow for a leg of mutton 
of 9 or lo pounds, from 2^ to 3 hours from the time it boils; boil 
very young turnips for a garnish, also boil larger turnips to mash ; 
place the young turnips, which should be of equal size, round the 
dish with the mutton and send the mashed ones to the table sepa- 
rately ; melted butter, with capers added, should accompany the 
dish. The liquor from the boiling will make a good soup. 

HAUNCH OF MUTTON A LA VENISON. 

Mix 2 ounces celery salt with yi pound brown sugar ; rub it 
well into the mutton, which should be placed in a deep dish for 4 
days, and basted 3 or 4 times a day with the liquor that drains 
from it ; then wipe it quite dry, and rub in ^ pound more 
sugar, mixed with a little common salt, and hang it up, haunch 
downwards ; wipe it daily till it is used. In winter it should be 
kept 2 or 3 weeks and roasted in paste, like venison. Serve with 
currant jelly. The paste (made with flour and water) should be 
removed 15 minutes before serving. 

LARDED SHOULDER OF MUTTON. 
Make deep, narrow cuts in the shoulder of mutton with a sharp 
knife and in these incisions insert narrow strips of fat, salt pork. 
They should be long enough to project a little way on each side. 
Lay the mutton in a dripping-pan, dash 2 cups boiling water over, 
cover with another pan and bake 2 hours, basting from time to 
time with its own gravy. When it is tender, uncover and brown, 
basting twice with butter and currant jelly. Keep the meat hot, 
while straining and thickening the gravy left in the pan. Send to 
table separately. 

ROAST MUTTON, STUFFED. 

Have the shoulder-bone extracted by the butcher, leaving a 
cavity for the stuf^ng. Make a dressing of crumbs and chopped 



358 MEATS. 

pork, well seasoned with pepper, salt and sweet herbs. Take a few 
stitches in the edges of the opening to keep the forcemeat from 
escaping. Lay the meat in the baking-pan, dash i cup boiling 
water over it and bake about 15 minutes to the pound. Baste fre- 
quently. When done transfer to the platter and set in a hot place 
while you cool, skim and strain the gravy and thicken it with 
browned flour. Pour a little of the gravy over the meat and serve 
the remainder separately. 

MUTTON TONGUE WITH TOMATOES. 

Boil and skin the tongues ; split them longwise ; season and 
pour over it a rich tomato sauce. 

MUTTONETTES. 

Cut slices from a leg of mutton about 3^ inch thick. On each 
slice lay i spoon of stuffing made with bread-crumbs, beaten egg? 
butter, salt, pepper, sage and summer savory. Roll up the slices, 
pinning with little skewers or small wooden toothpicks to keep the 
dressing in. Put a little butter and water in a baking-pan with the 
muttonettes, and cook in hot oven ^ hour. Baste often, and 
when done thicken the gravy, pour over the meat, garnish with 
parsley, and serve on hot platter. 

SHEEP'S HEART, BAKED. 

Wash 2 or 3 sheeps* hearts in lukewarm water, fill them with 
veal forcemeat, and skewer them securely. Fasten a rasher of fat 
bacon around each, place them in a deep dish, and with them a 
little good stock, and an onion stuck with 2 cloves. Bake in a 
moderate oven for 2 hours ; draw off the gravy ; thicken with a 
little flour and butter, and season it with salt and pepper and I 
tablespoon mushroom or walnut catsup. Put the hearts on a hot 
dish, pour the gravy over them, and send red currant jelly with 
them to the table. 

SCOTCH HAGGIS. 

Take the stomach of a sheep, wash it well, and let it soak for 
several hours in cold salt and water, then turn it inside out, put it 



MEATS. 



359 



into boiling water to scald, scrape it quickly with a knife, and let it 
remain in water until wanted ; clean a sheep's pluck thoroughly ; 
pierce the heart and the liver in several places, to let the blood run 
out, and boil the liver and lights for lyi hours; when they have 
boiled % hour, put them into fresh water, and, during the last ^ 
hour, let the rest of the pluck be boiled with them ; trim away the 
skins and any discolored parts there may be, grate }4. the liver, and 
mince all the rest very finely; add i pound finely-shred suet, 2 
chopped onions, 3^ pint oatmeal, or, if preferred, Yz pound oat- 
cakes, toasted and crumbled, 2 teaspoons salt, and i of pepper, ^ a 
nutmeg, grated, and i grain cayenne ; moisten with }i pint good 
gravy and the juice of i small lemon, and put the mixture into the 
bag already prepared for it ; be careful to leave room for swelling, 
sew it securely, and plunge it into boiling water ; it will require 3 
hours' gentle boiling; prick it with a needle every now and then, 
especially during the first half hour, to let the air out. A haggis 
should be sent to table as hot as possible, and neither sauce nor 
gravy should be served with it. The above is sufficient for 8 or 10 
persons. 



PORK. 

The finest parts and those usually used for roasting are the loin, 
the leg, the shoulder, the spare-rib and chine. The hams, shoulders 
and middlings are usually salted, pickled and smoked. Pork 
requires more thorough cooking than most meats ; if the least 
underdone it is unwholesome. 

To Choose Pork. — If the rind is thick and tough, and cannot be 
easily impressed with the finger, it is old ; when fresh, it will look 
cool and smooth, and only corn-fed pork is good ; swill or still-fed 
pork is unfit to cure. When dressing or stuffing is used, there are 
more or less herbs used for seasoning, — sage, summer savor)', thyme, 
and sweet majoram ; these can be found {\n the dried, pulverized 
form, put up in small, light packages) at most of the best druggists'; 
still those raised and gathered at home are fresher. 



360 MEATS. 

PORK, TO COOK. 

Large pork, such as portions of ,the shoulder, loin, or spare-rib, 
of large bacon hogs, may be cooked as follows: Rub the joint 
with pepper and salt, and put it into a large saucepan with a closely- 
fitting lid. When nearly done, add 2 or 3 onions and carrots, with 
^ dozen stalks celery, 4 sage leaves, i bunch parsley, i small 
sprig of marjoram and thyme, and as much stock or water as will 
cover the whole. Let the liquors boil up ; skim carefully ; then set 
back and simmer gently for 3 or 4 hours, according to size of joint. 
When the pork is done enough, lift it out, put the vegetables 
round it, strain and thicken a portion of the gravy, and pour it 
boiling hot over the pork. When the pork is removed from the 
table, trim it neatly and place on a clean dish to be eaten cold, or 
thicken the rest of the gravy and pour over the meat to be warmed 
over. 

PORK, BELLY ROLLED AND BOILED. 

Salt a belly of pork — young meat is the best — by mixing i salt- 
spoon powdered saltpetre with 2 tablespoons common salt, 
sprinkle the mixture over the pork and let it lie for 3 days. When 
ready to dress the meat, wash it in cold water, and dry it with a 
cloth. Lay it, skin downwards, on the table, remove the bones, 
and cover the inside with pickled gherkins cut into thin slices. 
Sprinkle over these a little powdered mace and pepper. Roll the 
meat tightly and bind securely with tape. Put it into a sauce-pan 
with 2 onions stuck with 6 cloves, 3 bay-leaves, i bunch parsley, 
and I sprig thyme. Bring the liquid slowly to a boil, skim care- 
fully, draw it to the back of stove, and simmer gently till the meat 
is done enough. Put it between 2 dishes, lay a weight upon it, 
and leave it until quite cold. The bandages should not be removed 
until the meat is ready to be served. Time to simmer, ^ hour per 
pound. 

PORK BRAWN. 

Take a small pig's head with the tongue, and 2 pig's feet. Clean 
and wash them, sprinkle 2 tablespoons salt over them, and let them 
drain until the following day ; dry them with a soft cloth and rub 



MEATS. 361 

into them a powder made of 6 ounces common salt, 6 ounces moist 
sugar, ^ ounce saltpetre, and ^ ounce black pepper. Dry the 
powder well, and rub it into every part of the head, tongue, ears 
and feet ; turn them over and rub them again every day for 10 
days. Wash the pickle from them, cut off the ears, and boil the 
feet and ears 1% hours; then put in the head and tongue, cover 
with cold water, and boil until the meat will leave the bones. Take 
them up, drain, cut the meat into small pieces ; first remove all 
bones and skin the tongue. Season the mince with i teaspoon 
white pepper, 3 saltspoons powdered mace, i saltspoon each of 
powdered nutmeg and cayenne. Stir all well together, press the 
meat while warm into a brawn-tin, and lay a heavy weight on the 
lid. Put in a cool place until the following day ; dip the mold in 
boiling water, turn the brawn out, and serve with vinegar and 
mustard. 

PORK AND BEANS. 

Take 2 pounds side pork, not too fat nor too lean, and 2 quarts 
marrowfat beans; put the beans to soak the night before you boil 
them in i gallon milk-warm water ; after breakfast, scald and scrape 
the rind of the pork, and put on to boil i hour before putting in 
the beans ; as soon as the beans boil up, pour off the water and 
put on I gallon fresh water; boil until quite tender, adding more 
water if necessary ; great care must be taken that they do not 
scorch ; when nearly as stiff as mashed potatoes, put into a bak- 
ing-dish, score the pork and put in the center ; brown in the oven I 
hour. If preferred use corned beef instead of pork. 



PORK CHOPS, FRIED. 

Cut pork chops ^ inch thick ; trim them neatly ; sprinkle 
them on both sides with a little salt and pepper. Melt a little 
butter in a frying-pan, put the chops in it and fry them until 
they are thoroughly done. If liked, a little powdered sage may 
be sprinkled over them before serving. Send apple sauce to table 
with them. 



362 MEATS. 

PORK CHOPS, BROILED. 

Cut the chops rather less than ^ inch thick. Have a clear fire ; 
make the gridiron hot before putting the chops on it ; pepper the 
chops, and when nearly done sprinkle salt, and a little powdered 
sage over them. Let them be done through, turn frequently, and 
serve hot. Tomato sauce eats well with pork chops. 

PORK CUTLETS, BROILED. 

Pork cutlets are best taken from the neck or fore loin of small 
dairy-fed pork, not very fat ; neatly trim them; score the skin at 
reeular intervals and flatten the cutlets with a cutlet-bat ; brush 
them over with oil, season with salt and pepper, and place them on 
a hot gridiron over a clear fire ; turn them occasionally, that they 
may be equally browned on both sides, and let them be thoroughly 
cooked. Put them on a hot dish, and send tomato, piquant or any 
appropriate sauce to table with them. 

PORK CUTLETS, FRIED. 

Melt 2 ounces butter in a sauce-pan, and stir into it i tea- 
spoon chopped parsley, i teaspoon each of chopped sage and 
minced shallot ; move these ingredients about for a few minutes, 
then add a little salt and pepper, and 2 well-beaten eggs ; dip the 
cutlets first into this mixture, then into finely-grated bread-crumbs, 
and let them stand 10 minutes; melt a little butter in a frying-pan, 
fry the cutlets in it, and when thoroughly done, serve with a good 
brown sauce. 

LEG OF PORK, GOOD AS GOOSE. 

Parboil a leg of pork and take off the skin ; make a stufHng as 
follows: Mince 2 ounces of onion very finely; mix with it ^^ 
chopped apple, 4 ounces bread-crumbs, yi dozen chopped sage 
leaves, i ounce butter, and a little pepper and salt. Bind the mix- 
ture together with the yolk of an Q%g. Make a slit in the knuckle, 
put the stufifing into it, and fasten securely. Put the pork into the 
oven and baste liberally. Half an hour before it is taken up, 
sprinkle over it a savory powder made of 2 tablespoons bread- 



MEATS. 303 

crumbs mixed with i tablespoon powdered sage, and a little pepper 
and salt. Do not baste the meat after the powder is put upon it. 
Serve with good brown gravy and apple sauce. 

BOILED LEG OF PORK WITH PEASE PUDDING. 

Take a leg of pork and rub it over with salt ; put it into a vessel 
and cover with salt and let it stand for 10 days. At the end of that 
time boil it in soft water, and serve with cabbage all round it, and 
a pease pudding made as follows: Take i quart dry pease, wash 
them, tie them in a clean bag, and boil with the pork. When the 
pease are done, strain them through a colander, put in a large lump 
of butter, some salt and 2 yolks eggs, and put back into the bag, 
and boil again for yi hour. The pease must be put into cold, soft 
water for 2 hours before being boiled, otherwise they will never boil 
tender. 

ROAST LOIN OF PORK. 

Score the skin of a fresh loin of pork at equal distances about 5^ 
inch apart. Brush it over with salad oil, season with salt and 
pepper, and place in a moderate oven. Baste liberally with butter 
or dripping at first, and when done serve on a hot dish, and serve 
with brown gravy and apple sauce. If liked, a little sage and onion 
stuffing may be served on a separate dish. 

PORK PIES. 

Make a crust as for chicken pies. Cut the meat into pieces the 
size of a small nut, and keep the lean and fat separate. Season the 
whole with pepper and salt and i teaspoon powdered sage. Pack 
the fat and lean closely into the pie in alternate layers until it is 
filled ; put on the top crust and ornament according to taste ; brush 
over with well-beaten ^%%, and bake in a slow oven as the meat is 
solid and requires to be cooked through, the outside pieces will be 
hard unless cut very small and pressed closely together. Take the 
bones and trimmings of the pork and stew them to make gravy ; 
boil it until it will jelly when cold, strain, thicken and flavor, and 
when the pie is done raise the top crust and fill it with the gravy, 
and send the balance of the gravy to table in a tureen. 



364 MEATS. 

PORK POT-PIE. 

Take a fresh spare-rib, or pieces of ribs of lean salt pork, also a 
slice or two of the fat of salt pork ; scald it well with hot water so 
as to wash out the briny taste. Put it into a kettle and cover it 
with cold water, enough for the required want. Cover it and boil 
I hour, season with pepper; then add ^ dozen potatoes cut into 
quarters. When it all commences to boil again, drop in dumplings 
made from receipt given with "'Veal Pot-Pie." 

ROAST SPARE-RIB. 

Take a nice spare-rib with part of the tenderloin left in ; season 
with salt and a little pepper ; sprinkle with summer savory ; put in 
a pan with a little water ; baste often and roast until nicely browned 
and thoroughly well done. 

ROAST SPARE-RIB, NO. 2. 

Trim off the rough ends neatly, crack the ribs across the middle, 
rub w^ith salt and sprinkle with pepper, fold over, stuff with turkey 
dressing, sew up tightly, place in a dripping-pan with i pint 
water, baste frequently, turning over once so as to bake both sides 
equally until a rich brown. 

SALT PORK. 

Salt pork may be considerably varied by various modes of cook- 
ing, and here are several French methods: 

Pork and Cabbage. — Cut the pork in slices and freshen a little, if 
extremely salt ; cut in slices, also, i firm head winter cabbage or 2 
small ones ; put a thick layer of the cabbage in a large stew-pan ; 
shred i onion very fine, and scatter over it, also a few whole pepper- 
corns, 2 or 3 cloves, and, if liked, a pinch of thyme and summer 
savory; lay on the pork, then the remainder of the cabbage, season- 
ing as above; cover with plenty of water, and boil for 2 hours. 

Pork Baked zvith Apple. — Cut i pound salt pork in thin slices 
and freshen in cold water brought to a boil; take 2 tart apples, I 
onion and ^ dozen potatoes*; pare them all and slice ; mix all 



MEATS 365 

together with the pork in a baking-tin, season with black pepper, 
add water to barely cover, and bake for 2 hours. 

Salt Pork with Pease. — Cut i pound pork in slices, and these in 
large dice ; have ready i pint split peas, soaked over night in cold 
water; i carrot cut in dice may also be added; simmer all together 
for 2 hours; rice may be used instead of pease. 

Pork ivitJi Pigs Liver. — Cut in dice ^ pound fat pork or bacon, 
with I pound fresh pig's liver; fry the pork lightly, then add the 
liver; season with salt and pepper, and fry for 5 minutes; add i 
pint boiling water and i pound turnips, cut in small dice ; simmer 
for I hour. Most delicious with mushrooms instead of the turnips. 

Grilled Salt Pork. — Take quite thin slices of the thick part of 
side pork, of a clear white, and thinly streaked with lean ; hold i 
on a toasting-fork before a brisk fire to grill; have at hand a dish of 
cold water, in which immerse it frequently while cooking, to remove 
the superfluous fat and render more delicate; put each slice as 
■cooked in a warm, covered pan ; when all are done, serve hot, 

BAKED PIG. 

. Take a pig about 6 weeks old, nicely prepared, score in squares, 
and rub lard all over it ; make a dressing of 2 quarts corn meal, 
salted as if for bread, and mix to a stiff dough with boiling water ; 
make into pans and bake ; after this is baked brown, break it up, 
and add to it ^ pound butter, pepper to taste, and thyme; fill the 
pig till plump, sew it up, and place it on its knees in the pan, 
which fill with as much water as will cook it ; baste it very 
frequently with the gravy, also 2 red pepper pods; turn while 
baking, same as turkey, and continue to baste till done. Some use 
turkey-dressing instead of above. 

PIGS' FEET, PICKLED. 

Take pigs' feet, scrape and wash them clean ; put them into a 
sauce-pan, with enough hot (not boiling) water to cover them ; 
when partly done, salt them ; it requires 4 to 5 hours to boil them 
soft ; pack them in a stone crock, and pour over them spiced 
vinegar made hot; they will be ready to use in i or 2 days. If 



366 MEATS. 

you wish them for breakfast, split them, make a batter of 2 eggs, | 
cup milk, salt, I teaspoon butter, with flour enough to make a 
thick batter; dip each piece in this, and fry in hot lard, or dip them 
in beaten egg and flour, and fry. Souse is good eaten cold or 
warm. 

pigs' feet, pressed. 

Boil the hocks and feet of equal quantity loose in a pot till the 
meat will fall freely from the bones ; season well with pepper and 
salt ; put into a pan while hot and press it. Cut in slices and serve 
with vinegar or Worcestershire sauce. Both of the above are great 
delicacies if properly cooked. 

JOWL WITH SPINACH. 

Wash I corned pig's cheek in 3 or 4 waters ; put into a pot and 
cover with cold water; let it boil slowly 2j4 hours ; send it to table 
on a dish of boiled spinach that has not been cut fine. 

HEAD CHEESE. 

Boil the several parts of the entire head and the feet, in the 
same way as for souse ; all must be boiled so perfectly tender that 
the meat will separate easily from the bones; after neatly separ- 
ated, chop the meat fine while warm, seasoning with salt, pepper, 
sage, or other spices, to taste; put in a strong bag, place a weight 
on it, and let it remain until cold, or put it in any convenient dish, 
placing a plate Avith a weight on it to press the meat ; cut in slices, 
roll in flour, and fry in lard, or serve cold. 

TO GLAZE HAMS. 

Remove the rind by taking hold of the thick end first ; trim it 
neatly, put it in the oven for a few minutes, and press a cloth over 
it to dry it ; brush it over with a paste brush dipped in glaze — a 
strong, clear gravy boiled down as thick as syrup ; to melt the 
glaze, put the jar which contains it into a sauce-pan of boiling 
water, and stir until dissolved; brush the ham with 2 or 3 coats. 



MEATS. 



367 




BAKED HAM — Corned. 

Take a medium-sized ham and place it to soak for 10 or 12 
hours; then cut avv^ay the rusty part from underneath, wipe it dry, 
and cover it rather thickly over with a paste made of flour and 
water; put it into an earthen dish, 
and set it in a moderately-heated 
oven ; when done, take off the 
crust carefully, and peel off the 
skin, put a frill of cut paper 
around the knuckle, and raspings 
of bread over the fat of the ham, 
or serve it glazed and garnished 
with cut vegetables ; it will take 
about 4 or 5 hours to bake it. Cooked in this way the flavor is 
much finer than when boiled. Fresh ham may be cooked in the 
same way. 

BOILED HAM. 

Wash the ham very clean, and put on with cold water to cover. 
Simmer gently 5 hours, and set the kettle aside for i or 2 hours. 
When nearly cold, take out the ham and draw off the skin. Cover 
with cracker crumbs and about 3 tablespoons sugar. Place in the 
oven, in a baking-pan, for 30 or 40 minutes. Many people stick 
cloves into the fat part of the ham, and use only a few crumbs. 
The time given is for a ham weighing about 12 pounds; every 
pound over that will require 15 minutes more. The fish-kettle 
comes next to a regular ham-kettle, and answers quite as well as 
both. If you have neither kettle, and no pot large enough to hold 
all the meat, cut off the knuckle, which will cook in about 2 hours. 
But this rather hurts the flavor and appearance of the dish. 



BONED HAM. 



Soak I ham in water over night. Boil tender, let cool, and care- 
fully remove all the bones. Make a stuffing of bread-crumbs, season 
with herbs, fill the space with the dressing, cover the ham with 
grated crakers and a little brown sugar, bake i hour, baste with 



368 MEATS. 

white wine. When done, place between 2 large dishes under a 
heavy weight. Cut it across like beef tongue when cold. 

HAM AND EGGS. 

Cut the ham into thin slices and broil, and spread over it a little 
butter. Poach the eggs in salted water and lay neatly upon the 
ham. 

HAM AND EGGS, NO. 2. 

Ham should be cut not more than % to 3-8 inch thick. The 
rind should be trimmed off, and if it is to be broiled, a portion of 
the fat also. It should be cooked done in either case, though not 
so as to be dry and hard. For frying, put in a little butter and let 
it get hot before putting in the ham. When done pour off the clear 
fat and rinse the spider with a little hot water; pour this on the 
ham as a gravy. The rind, and any bits of fat that may be cut off, 
should be put in a spider and the fat fried out. It makes a good 
ham gravy, which is good to fry eggs in, or for shortening. 

The eggs should be fried in ham gravy or pork gravy, but this 
should first be poured off from the sediment of salt in the spider, 
which should be rinsed out a,s above directed, and the clear fat 
returned to the spider. This gives the eggs a brownish tinge, and 
helps to season them, and is much better than clear lard, although a 
little lard may be added if necessary. Have the fat hot, break the 
eggs in a saucer, pour them in the spider; baste the upper side with 
the hot fat until done to the taste. 

HAM TORTILLA. 

One-half pound ham, 3 eggs, 4 ounces butter or oil. Cook the 
ham, chop it, and put it with the butter or oil in a pan. Beat and 
season the eggs with mustard and pepper ; pour them in and stir 
for a moment, then let the tortilla set, taking care that it does not 
adhere to the pan. When lightly browned turn and brown the 
other side. 

FRIZZLED HAM. 

Cut the lean part of a ham in thin shavings, put i tablespoon 
butter in a frying-pan, and, when hot, put in the shaved ham, fry 5 



MEATS. 369 

minutes, then sprinkle over it i tablespoon flour, fry until brown ; 
now pour i pint milk over it and let boil i minute. Pepper to 
taste. 

IIAM AND LIVER. 

One pound calf's liver, Yz pound ham, ^ cup gravy from your 
soup stock, I cup fine bread-crumbs, 2 eggs, well beaten, minced 
onions and parsley, pepper and salt at discretion. 

Boil the liver and chop it fine. If you have no cold ham in the 
house, buy a slice, boil it and chop it also. Mix with the liver and 
add the soup stock. Stir in the seasoning, eggs and crumbs. 
Grease a Boston brown bread mold or a small tin pail with a 
closely fitting top, put the mixture into this, fit on the lid and set 
in a vessel of boiling water, taking care that the water does not 
come to the top of the mold. Boil 2 hours, turn out and pour i 
cup of good drawn butter over it. 

SCRAPPEL. 

Take the head, heart and any lean scraps of pork, and boil until 
the flesh slips easily from the bones. Remove the fat, gristle and 
bones, then chop fine. Set the liquor in which the meat was boiled 
aside until cold, take the cake of fat from the surface and return 
to the fire. When it boils, put in the chopped meat and season 
well with pepper and salt. Let it boil again, then thicken with 
corn-meal as you would in making ordinary corn meal mush, by let- 
ting it slip through the fingers slowly to prevent lumps. Cook i 
hour, stirring constantly at first, afterwards putting back on the 
range in a position to boil gently. When done, pour into a long, 
square pan, not too deep, and mold. In cold weather this can be 
kept several weeks. Cut into slices when cold, and fried brown, as 
you do mush, is a cheap and delicious breakfast dish. 

BAKED SAUSAGE. 

These are excellent and save the spattering of the grease over 
the stove incident to frying ; place them in a hot oven and bake 

24 



370 MEATS. 

till brown, or roll in egg, then in fine bread-crumbs, and place them 
on a greased baking-pan and bake for 15 minutes in a hot oven. 

SAUSAGE CROQUETTES. 

Take 2 pounds sausage, 4 eggs, i cup butter, i cup milk ; add 
sufficient bread-crumbs to thicken ; roll in cracker meal and fry brown. 

SAUSAGE ROLLS. 

Take puff-paste, roll out |- inch thick; then cut in squares of 4 
inches each, lay them on a board ; have sausage meat ready, made 
in small rolls, and place one on each square of pastry. Wet the 
edges and bring them together. Work with beaten white of i 
egg, bake nice and brown. If properly made these rolls are very 
dainty. 

COLD MEAT COOKERY. 



The English housekeeper of moderate means pays great atten- 
tion to the re-cooking of cold meat, and it must be confessed that 
she is more fortunate in her efforts than the average American. 
The secret of success lies in never allowing meat that is being 
cooked a second time to come to boiling heat, and another in the 
choice of method in regard to it. For instance, cold boiled meat 
docs not hash well, but makes excellent fricassees, or is good served 
with sauce piquant, or minced, whereas roast meat is best re-cooked 
either as hash, or in the case of rare roast beef, grilled with onions 
like steak. Some plain receipes for cold meat cookery may not 
come amiss. 

FRICANDELLES. 

Take cold beef, veal, or any other meat, the more variety the 
better, hash it fine, and mix with 2 eggs, a little grated onion, 
melted butter, 2 crackers pounded, pepper, salt ; form into balls 
and fry in butter. Serve with drawn butter flavored with lemon. 

COLD ROAST BEEF AND ONIONS. 
The beef must be quite rare; cut it in i-inch slices, pepper 
and salt them. Slice up a couple of large onions and fry them a 



MEATS. 371 

rich brown, take them out of the frying-pan and make a gravy in it 
of flour and stock. Lay the sjices of beef on the gridiron and heat 
them thoroughly, sHghtly browning on either side, place them round 
a dish with the fried onions in the center, and pour the gravy over 
the whole. 

CROQUETTES OF COLD BEEF OR MUTTON. 

Chop the meat finely, sprinkling it with flour, and at the same 
time chop an onion and a sprig of parsley. Add the same weight 
of bread-crumbs. Mold together with a raw egg, and shape into 
oval cakes, or egg-shaped balls. Melt enough lard in a frying-pan 
to more than cover them, and as it boils lay them in turning them 
till thoroughly brown on all sides. 

COLD beef's heart. 

Wash the heart well and soak for ^ hour in cold, salted water; 
wipe and stuff the orifices well with a forcemeat of bread-crumbs, 
fat salt pork, minced fine, and a little onion, chopped and seasoned 
with pepper. Sew up in coarse muslin fitted to the shape of the 
heart, put on to boil in cold, salted water, with i tablespoon vine- 
gar to the quart ; boil slowly 2 hours, turning several times. Put 
under a heavy weight when done and leave it for 12 hours. Take 
off the cloth then and your cold entree is ready. Slice crosswise. 

DEVILS. 

These are made of rare cold beef, or of poultry legs; make a 
sauce of mustard, oil, Worcester sauce, pepper and salt ; dip the 
meat or fowl into it piece by piece, and grill over a clear fire. 
Rib bones of cold roast beef are excellent in this way, and so, 
although not admissable in talking of meat cookery, are mackerel 
bones. Some cooks make devils by dipping the meat in curry 
sauce and grilling it, but the way first indicated is the best. 

COLD-DINNER BEEF. 

Take a piece of beef flank 6 or 8 inches wide, as long as can be 
got; sprinkle salt on it, if fresh; prepare stufifing as for fowls, and 



372 



MEATS. 



Spread over it ; roll up very tight and tie with strings to keep in 
place, as the heat will curl it; then, tie or sew it up in a cloth, and 
drop into rapidly-boiling water; cook several hours; the larger the 
piece the longer it will take; try with a fork; when done lay 
between boards and put a weight on it, keeping the cloth still on; 
when cold it will slice beautifully ; it is best cooked the day before 
it is wanted. 

CORNED BEEF PIE. 

Take l pint bowl very finely-chopped corned beef, left from 
dinner; mince fine i small onion, and mix with the yolk of i hard- 
boiled egg, rubbed smooth, i raw egg and }< teaspoon pepper; 
melt in a sauce-pan a piece of butter the size of i egg, add i tea- 
spoon flour, stirring until smooth, and adding •slowly i cup boiling 
water, stirring all until perfectly smooth; boil for 5 minutes, and 
then pour it in the chopped beef, onion and egg; stir until just at 
boiling-point again, and then pour into a baking-dish, holding not 
less than 3 pints ; cover with a very thick layer of mashed potatoes 
— 6 potatoes mashed while hot with j/^ cup milk, i large spoon 
butter and i teaspoon salt, and i saltspoon pepper; brown in a hot 
oven, glazing as it begins to color, with i teaspoon butter. 

BEEF AU GRATIN. 

Take cold beef, either boiled or roasted, and cut it in thin 
slices; grease a tin pan with butter, dust with bread-crumbs, put in 
a little chopped parsley, and lay on the slices of beef. Put salt» 
pepper, and parsley on top, dust with bread crumbs, drop on 
lemon-juice, and a little broth, just to cover the bottom of the pan, 
and place it in the oven. 

BEEF COQUETTES. 

Use cold roast beef, chop it fine, season with pepper and salt, 
add J^ the quantity of bread-crumbs, and moisten with a little milk. 
Have your hands floured, rub the meat into balls, dip it into beaten 
egg, then into finely pulverized cracker, and fry in butter; garnish 
with parsley. 



MEATS. 373 

HASH. 

Chop the cooked meat and twice as much potatoes, cold, in sep- 
arate bowls; put a little boiling water, and a bit of butter into an 
iron sauce-pan, stew-pan or spider ; bring to a boil; then put in the 
meat and potatoes, well salted and peppered ; add other vegetables 
if desired. Let it cook through well, under cover, stirring occa- 
sionally, so that the ingredients be evenly distributed and to keep 
the bottom from sticking to the pan. When done it should be not 
at all watery, nor yet dry, but have sufficient adhesiveness to stand 
on well-trimmed and buttered toast, on which it should be served. 
Hash from cold poultry can be made same way. 

ENGLISH HASH. 

This is not in the least like that which goes by the same name 
in America. To prepare it, cut cold roast mutton into moderately 
thin slices and flour them slightly. Make a rich, thick brown gravy, 
either of stock, or by browning an onion in butter, adding flour and 
•water, and stirring till it boils ; throw in a couple of cloves and i 
tablespoon vinegar ; stir till perfectly smooth, then run through 
a s^eve. Let this gravy boil up, and then withdraw it from the fire 
until it is below boiling point, lay in the slices of meat and let them 
steam in it for 5 minutes ; add a little ketchup if liked and serve 
with sippets of toasted bread cut into triangles. 

SPICED RELISH. 

Chop remnants of cold beef, veal or mutton, very fine, and mix 
with it % as much cold ham or bacon, also minced extremely fine; 
season to taste with allspice, pepper, salt, and if desired, sweet 
herbs. A little anchovy paste, thoroughly mixed in is a pleasant 
addition. Put the compound into a covered jar, set this in an outer 
vessel of boiling water and cook until the meat is heated through; 
take from the fire and press into a plain, square or round mold, 
well buttered, packing the meat in tightly and placing a heavy 
weight on it. When entirely cold, turn out and cut in slices. It 
may be kept for some days by pouring mutton suet or melted but- 
ter on top to exclude the air, and setting in a cold place. 



374 MEATS. 

COLD BOILED MUTTON. 

This is best stewed either in caper sauce or in parsley and 
butter ; in either case, make the sauce, cut the meat in medium 
sHces and let it heat up as in ''English Hash." In dishing it up, lay 
the meat slice by slice in a flat dish and pour the sauce over it. 

MINCED MUTTON OR VEAL. 

Have the meat perfectly free from sinew, fat or bone, chopped 
very fine with a little grated lemon-peel. Melt i ounce butter 
in a sauce-pan, add a little flour and milk ; stir well and pour on the 
minced meat. Serve with sippets of toasted bread. 

TO WARM OVER COLD MUTTON. 

An excellent and simple way is to cut it, if loin, into chops, or 
if leg, into thick scallops, and dip each into egg well beaten with i 
teaspoon milk, then in fine bread-crumbs, and fry in plenty of very 
hot fat. If your crumbs are not very fine and even, the larger 
crumbs will fall off and the appearance be spoiled. 

SCALLOPED MUTTON. 

Cut all the meat from the bones of yesterday's roast. Reject 
the fattest bits of meat and mince the rest fine with a sharp knife. 
Put the stuffing with this and moisten all well with the gravy. Fill 
a buttered pudding-dish with this, strew the top with crumbs, dot 
with bits of butter and bake covered y^ hour. Uncover and brown. 
Care must be taken not to have the scallop too dry. Should the 
gravy run short, borrow a little stock from your soup. 

MUTTON PUDDING. 

Chop your cold mutton into small bits, season it well, put it 
into a buttered pudding-dish and pour over it what remains of the 
gravy. Prepare 2 cups mashed potato, beat into it i egg, i cup 
milk, I tablespoon prepared flour, pepper and salt. Spread on top 
of the mutton. Bake i hour in a steady oven. 



MEATS. 375 

MUTTON PIE. 

Cut into square pieces about 2 pounds cold roast mutton, trim 
off a portion of the fat, quarter 3 kidneys ; put the meat into a pie- 
dish, season with 2 tablespoons chopped parsley, i tablespoon 
powdered herbs, salt and pepper, and ^ onion minced ; add ^ pint 
light stock or water, i wine-glass port wine ; cover the dish with 
puff-paste, brush over with an egg and bake i}4 hours. Cold lamb 
may be used in the same way. 

MUTTON PIE AND TOMATOES. 

Spread the bottom of a baking-dish with bread-crumbs, and fill 
with alternate layers of cold roast mutton, cut in thin slices, and 
tomatoes, peeled and sliced ; season each layer with pepper, salt 
and bits of butter. The last layer should be of tomatoes spread 
with bread-crumbs. Bake ^ hour, and serve immediately. 

PORK CAKE. 

Cut the meat, fat and lean, from a cold joint of roast pork, and 
mince it very finely ; mix with it a couple of large potatoes freshly 
boiled and mashed, a little salt and pepper, i chopped onion, and a 
httle powdered sage. Add 2 or 3 eggs, a little milk, sufficient to 
make a very thick batter. P'ry the cake like an omelet, or bake in 
a buttered dish. Serve with pickled onions or gherkins. 

Cold Pork can best be warmed as curry or in croquettes. 

CURRY OF ANY COLD WHITE MEAT — CHICKEN, PORK OR VEAL. 

Cut the meat into thick, small square bits. Fry a sliced onion 
and a clove of garlic in butter, sprinkling them with curry powder ; 
when of a rich, golden brown make a gravy by the addition of 
stock, thicken it, pass through a sieve, add the juice of i lemon, j^ 
apple, I teaspoon curry powder. Lay in the meat and let it heat 
through ; serve with boiled rice. To boil properly, each grain sep- 
arate, have a deep sauce-pan full of boiling water, as it boils up 
throw in the rice and let it boil fast for 20 minutes, or until the 
water evaporates, move to the side of the fire and let it dry off. 
Serve either around the curry or in a separate vegetable dish. 



3/6 MEATS. 

BUBBLE AND SQUEAK OF VEAL. 

Take the remains of cold veal ; cut the meat into neat slices ; 
fry them in hot fat ; put them where they will keep hot. Take 
some boiled spinach, fry this, also, and when it is quite hot, pile it 
on a dish and arrange the pieces of meat around it. Send tomato 
or any kind of piquant sauce to table with it. 

VEAL CAKE. 

Butter a plain earthenware dish or mold ; fill it with alternate 
layers of hard-boiled yolks of eggs, chopped parsley, and veal and 
ham minced, seasoned highly, mixed thoroughly and beaten to a 
smooth paste. Pour i or 2 spoons seasoned stock upon the meat, 
cover the pan closely and bake in a gentle oven. When done 
enough, press firmly into the mold, put a plate with a weight upon 
it, and let it remain untouched until cold. Turn it out, garnish 
with parsley, and serve for luncheon or supper. Time to bake, 
about I hour. 

VEAL CROQUETTES. 

To I pound mashed potatoes add i spoon butter, 2 beaten yolks 
of eggs, I small chopped onion, salt and pepper ; mix well with i 
pound cold, chopped veal, and half as much cold ham, moisten with 
a little cream, shape in oval balls, dip in egg, then in grated cracker, 
and fry brown. Cold meat or fish of any kind may be made into 
croquettes by this receipt. 

calf's head, TERRAPIN STVLE. 

Cut up I pound cold boiled calf's head into pieces of equal size 
and set them aside. Put ^ pound butter in a sauce-pan and let it 
melt ; beat up the yolks of 4 eggs with i pint rich cream, season 
with salt, cayenne and a dash of nutmeg; whisk the butter rapidly, 
and while doing so gradually add the cream. Do not let the sauce 
boil, or it would curdle ; add to ^ pint good sherrj', i teaspoon 
India soy ; add the sauce to this very gradually, whisking all the 
time ; in this heat the calf's head, but do not let the preparation 
more than heat through. The yolks of hard-boiled eggs rubbed to 



MEATS. 377 

a paste, then worked into little balls, are added as each pc»rtion is 
served. 

COLD VEAL PATTIES. 

Have ready some good plain paste, as for pies, mince the veal 
with a little grated lemon-peel, add flour and enough water to 
moisten it ; line patty-pans with the paste, pour on the mince, cover 
with more paste, scallop the edges and bake in a quick oven. 

VEAL SCALLOP. 

Chop fine some cold veal, and put a layer in the bottom of a 
pudding-dish, and season with pepper and salt ; next put a layer of 
finely powdered crackers, and strew some bits of butter over it and 
wet with a little milk, then more veal, seasoned as before, and 
another round of cracker crumbs with butter and milk. When the 
dish is full, wet well with gravy or broth, and spread over all a thick 
layer of cracker, seasoned with salt, wet into a paste with milk and 
I or 2 beaten eggs, and stick bits of butter thickly over it, and 
cover and bake ^ or ^ hour, then remove the cover and brown 
nicely. 

CROQUETTES OF ODDS AND ENDS. 

These are made of any scraps or bits of good food that happen 
to be left from one or more meals, and in such small quantities that 
they cannot be warmed up separately. As, for example, a couple 
of spoons frizzled beef and cream, the lean meat of i mutton 
chop, I spoon minced beef, 2 cold hard-boiled eggs, a little chopped 
potato, a little mashed potato, a chick's leg, all the gristle and 
hard outside taken from the meat. These things well chopped and 
seasoned, mixed with i raw egg, a little flour and butter, and boil- 
ing water ; then made into round cakes, thick like fish-balls, and 
browned well with butter in a frying-pan or on a griddle. 

Scraps of hash, cold rice, boiled oatmeal left from breakfast, 
every kind of fresh meat, bits of salt tongue, bacon, pork or ham, 
bits of poultry, and crumbs of bread may be used. They should be 
put together with care, so as not to have them to dry to be palat- 
able, or too moist to cook in shape. Most housekeepers would be 



3/8 MEATS. 

surprised at the result, making an addition to the breakfast or 
lunch table. Serve on small squares of buttered toast, and with 
cold celery if in season. 

HAM BALLS. 

Take ^2 cup bread-crumbs and mix with 2 eggs well beaten ; 
chop fine some bites of cold boiled ham and mix with them. Make 
into balls and fry. 

FRICASSEE OF COLD BOILED MEAT. 

Make a gravy of flour, butter, and white stock, or milk, add a 
clove of mace, or a laurel leaf and a few button mushrooms ; let it 
boil. Have the meat cut up into small square pieces, not over Yi 
inch thick, place them in the sauce after it has left off boiling, and 
serve with cut lemon round the dish. 

SALMI OF TONGUE WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Slice neatly the remains of yesterday's tongue. Heat the 
remaining gravy, and add to it Yi cup liquor strained from a can of 
tomatoes. If this seems to thin the gravy too much, thicken with 
a little browned flour. When the sauce is boiling, drop the pieces of 
tongue into it and let them simmer about 15 minutes. 

FRENCH STEW. 

Put a little butter into a spider, slice a small piece of onion and 
brown in the butter; cut carrot and turnip into fancy shapes and 
cook in water until tender; put the gravy left from the roast into 
the spider, cook a few minutes and strain ; now cut nice slices of the 
cold roast meat and put into the gravy; cook 10 or 15 minutes; 
put in the carrot and turnip; pour on to a platter, and serve; 
French canned peas may be added. 

ECONOMICAL DISH. 

There is often a quantity of yellow fat left from a ham ; cut it 
up into thin slices, with any other slices of cold meat, and fry a 
nice brown ; mash all the cold potatoes, cabbage, etc., you have, 



MEATS. 379 

and fry in the fat of the pan, when the sHces are removed ; warm 
a dish, put the vegetables at the bottom, and lay the shces on top ; 
serve hot. 

COLD MEAT LOAF. 

Chop any kind of good cold meat, season with salt and pepper, 
and place in a mold ; take the bones and bits of meat, and boil 
them with i or 2 onions, cut fine. When boiled enough strain, and 
add I spoon gelatine dissolved. Pour this over the meat and set 
away to cool and harden. 

TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE. 

This is an old-fashioned English dish and very appetizing for 
supper on a cold night, in spite of its disagreeable name ; cut i 
pound meat — steak, mutton or lamb — into small pieces, and put 
into a well-buttered baking-dish ; season it nicely, and then pour 
upon it a batter made with i egg, i cup flour, and i pint milk ; 
beat the egg light, add the milk, season with salt ; pour this upon 
the flour, and beat up a light, smooth batter ; bake I hour, and 
serve very hot. 



FORCEMEATS AND STUFFINGS. 



ALMOND FORCEMEAT. 

Beat up the yolks of 3 eggs with ^ pint good cream, and flavor 
with a little nutmeg; blanch and pound in a mortar 3 ounces sweet 
almonds, using white of egg to moisten ; add these with ^ pound 
light bread crumbs, and 3 ounces butter broken into small bits, to 
the egg mixture; stir in, lastly, the whites of the eggs whisked to 
a solid froth, and fill either capon or turkey. 

FORCEMEAT BALLS. 

Chop l{ pound beef suet, a little lemon-peel and parsley ; mix 
with a basin of bread-crumbs, and flavor with pepper, salt and nut- 
meg ; moisten with the yolks of 2 eggs, roll in flour, and make up 



38o MEATS. 

into small balls ; bake in a hot oven, or fry till crisp. This recipe 
will do for fowls; the addition of a little ham, chopped or pounded, 
will be found a considerable improvement. 

CHESTNUT FORCEMEAT. 

Remove the outer skin from some chestnuts; boil them for 2 
or 3 minutes to get off the inner skin ; peel them, and to preserve 
their color throw them into cold water; drain and weigh them; 
stew 6 ounces of them gently for about 20 minutes in veal gravy; 
let them get cold, pound them till smooth with an equal quantity 
of butter, or ^ their weight in fat bacon, and add 2 ounces bread- 
crumbs, and a little salt, lemon-rind, and nutmeg; bind the mixture 
together with the unbeaten yolks of 2 eggs. If this forcemeat is 
formed into cakes, these should be dipped into flour before being 
fried. 

FORCEMEAT FOR FISH. 

Pound the flesh of i medium-sized lobster, y^ anchovy, a piece 
of boiled celery, the yolk of i hard-boiled egg, salt, pepper, and 
cayenne to taste; mix these with i tablespoon bread-crumbs, 2 
ounces butter, and 2 raw eggs ; make into small balls, and fry a pale 
brown in butter ; 2 or 3 oysters may be added. 

FORCEMEAT FOR GAME. 

Take the livers of the game and pound them with J^ their 
weight of beef suet and good fat bacon, mixed together ; season 
with salt, pepper, and ground cloves. Use a little of the meat of 
the game if enough of the livers cannot be obtained; moisten with 
cream, and bind with the yolks of 2 eggs. If the forcemeat be 
required stiff, stew over a gentle fire, keeping it constantly stirred 
until the proper consistency is gained. 

MUSHROOM FORCEMEAT. 

Procure 4 ounces young, fresh mushrooms; peel them, cut off 
the stems ; dissolve 2 ounces butter in a stew-pan, and let them 
simmer very gently over a slow fire, with a slight flavoring of mace 



MEATS. 38 1 

and cayenne; spread them over a dish placed in a slanting position 
to drain away the moisture ; when cold mince them, and add 4 
ounces fine bread-crumbs, a small seasoning of salt, cayenne, mace, 
and nutmeg, a piece of butter, the yolks of 2 eggs ; put in as 
much of the mushroom gravy as will make the forcemeat of the 
proper consistency ; make into balls, poach and throw into soup ; 
or fry, and serve round a dish of roast fowl or minced veal. It is 
also a good stuffing for boiled fowls. 

OYSTER FORCEMEAT. 

Get fresh oysters and cut them into quarters; grate bread 
enough to fill ^ pint, and i}4 ounces finely shred suet or butter, 
which should be broken into bits ; mix all these ingredients together 
with a good flavoring of herbs, and a seasoning of salt, pepper, and 
grated nutmeg; add 2 well-beaten eggs; this forcemeat is for boiled 
or roast turkey ; it may be made into balls and used as a garnish ; 
20 oysters are sufficient for i turkey. 

FORCEMEAT FOR TURKEYS. 

Take equal quantities of lean veal and pork, and mince them 
finely together ; also cut into pieces a parboiled veal sweetbread, 
and mix with about 3^ pound each of the former meats ; add ^ 
pound bread, soaked, and the same amount of warm butter; flavor 
with a little nutmeg, salt, pepper and 3^ ounce grated lemon-rind ; 
bind with 3 beaten eggs, and fill the turkey. 

APPLE STUFFING. 

Take ^ pound of the pulp of tart apples which have been 
baked or scalded ; add 2 ounces bread-crumbs, some powdered sage, 
a finely-shred onion ; season well with cayenne pepper. For roast 
^oose, duck, etc. 

CHESTNUT STUFFING. 

Boil the chestnuts and shell them ; then blanch them and boil 
u itil soft ; mash them fine and mix with a little sweet cream, some 
bread-crumbs, pepper and salt. For turkey. 



382 ' MEATS. 



PLAIN STUFFING. 



Take stale bread, cut off all the crust, rub very fine and pour 
over it as mnch melted butter as will make it crumble in your 
hands ; salt and pepper to taste. 

POTATO STUFFING. 

Take 73 bread and ^ boiled potatoes, grated, butter size of an 
egg, pepper, salt, i egg and a little ground sage ; mix thoroughly. 

STUFFING WITH SAGE AND ONION. 

Boil 4 large onions until tender ; drain them from the water, and 
mince them finely with 4 fresh sage leaves, or 6 dry ones, 4 table- 
spoons bread-crumbs, i teaspoon salt, i teaspoon made mustard, 
and I teaspoon moist sugar, j4 teaspoon pepper, i large apple, pared 
and cored, and }{ nutmeg, grated, may be added, if approved. 



GRAVIES. 



Is any one perplexed by gravy? Will the grease rise to the top, 
and the thickening fall to the bottom ? Is good gravy on your table 
an accident rather than a result of thought and painstaking? If 
this is the case, and I know of one instance where it was so at one 
time, you will be glad to know that it is not hard to make good 
gravy. 

The smoothness of gravy depends almost entirely upon the 
way in which the thickening is added. The broth of meat dripping, 
which is to be the foundation of the gravy, should be strained and 
skimmed clear of fat. It should then be returned to the stove 
and brought to a boil. Browned flour should always be used for 
gravy, except when a white sauce for fricasseed chicken, sweet- 
breads or something of that kind is desired. The flour should be 
wet up with cold water to a paste, the water being added little by 
little, until the mixture is about the consistency of very rich cream 
and entirely free from lumps. It should then be poured slowly into 



MEATS. 383 

the boiling broth, stirring all the time. The addition of the cold 
liquid will, of course, break the boil for a moment or two. The 
stirring must be kept up until the gravy boils again and for about 3 
minutes afterwards, or until the gravy reaches the requisite thick- 
ness, Close attention to these instructions should insure good 
gravy. 

HOW TO BROWN FLOUR. 

Sift I cup flour into a tin pie-plate, and set it on the top of the 
stove ; watch closely, stirring it frequently to see that it does not 
burn, and taking especial pains to prevent its sticking to the bottom 
of the pan. It should be of a fine brown, not at all blackened. 
Some housekeepers prefer browning it in the oven, but it cannot be 
watched as constantly there as when on the top of the range. It 
is well to prepare i or 2 cups browned flour at a time. It 
keeps perfectly in a tin box or glass preserve jar, and is then 
always ready for thickening. If this plan were more invariably 
followed, there would be fewer tables where a grayish yellow 
paste, thickened with uncooked flour, appears under the name of 
gravy. 

HOT SPICE. 

Hot spice is the name given by a cook of a past generation for 
a delicious adjunct to gravies, steaks, chops, and soups. Take 3 
drachms each of ginger, black pepper and cinnamon, 7 cloves, i 
ounce each of m.ace, cayenne, grated nutmeg and white pepper; 
pound these together, mix till well blended, and then put it in a 
perfectly clean, dry bottle for use. 

GRAVY. 

" After repeated failures I determined, at all hazards, to solve 
the serious problem. I had a roast of beef in the dripping-pan ; it 
was ready to take up on the platter; in the pan was, I knew, good 
material for gravy, and after taking up the meat I poured all, with 
the exception of about 3 tablespoons, out into a basin; I then put 
a little cold water into the pan, then added Yz cup milk into which 
I had beaten 2 tablespoons flour, then set the pan on the stove, 



384 MEATS. 

stirring the gravy every moment, and presently had the satisfaction 
of seeing a rich, brown, well-made gravy ready for the table." 

GRAVY WITHOUT MILK. 

A housekeeper of long experience gives this recipe and vouches 
for its excellence: After the meat is roasted, strain the grease 
through a sieve into a clean bowl, reserving about 4 tablespoons 
for the gravy; take i tablespoon flour and rub into the hot drip- 
pings, then pour in boiling water, stirring it constantly till it cooks ; 
season to taste. 

GRAVY FOR FOWLS. 

This may be made in the same way, using the water in which 
they have been cooked. The hearts and gizzards may be chopped 
fine and added to the gravy. Oysters also may be cut up and 
stirred in just before taking the gravy from the stove. 

MILK GRAVY. 

This is made in the same way, using melted butter or a little 
fried pork gravy as foundation. 

GRAVY FOR TURKEY. 

Boil the giblets very tender ; chop fine ; then take the liquor in 
which they are boiled, thicken with flour; season with salt, pepper 
and a little butter; add the giblets and dripping in which the tur- 
key was roasted. 



TO KEEP AND CURE MEATS. 



CURING MEAT. 



The season of the year in which meats may be cured on the 
farms with best success is from December 15 to February 15, the 
interval between these dates affording two indispensable conditions, 
viz., cool weather and immunity from insects and pests. Pork must 



MEATS. 385 

be cut to suit the demands of the different markets in which it is to 
be sold, but never lose sight of the fact that it ought to be in such 
form as will pack snugly. Remember too, the importance of having 
the meat thoroughly relieved of animal heat previous to packing 
down. 

The two processes, salting with and without brine, are both 
popular and effective when carefully performed. 

When it is desired to use brine the meat may be packed in 
layers. F. D. Coburn, excellent authority, advises salt at the rate 
of 8 pounds to each 100 pounds of pork. Sprinkle the salt evenly 
over and around each layer until the cask is full ; then clear rain 
water or other pure water is poured in until all the interstices are 
filled. Many prefer to prepare the brine by adding to the salt some 
sugar, saltpetre, etc., dissolving them in water and pouring the 
pickle over the meat. A recipe recommended by Coburn is as 
follows: For 100 pounds of pork, 4 ounces saltpetre, 3 pints com- 
mon molasses or 5 pounds brown sugar, and 7 pounds salt. When 
dissolved, pour over the meat. Some boil the pickle, skim it of 
impurities, let it get entirely cold and then pour it over the meat. 
In any case, be sure the meat is always covered with the brine. 

The length of time hams and shoulders should be kept in pickle 
depends on their thickness — from i to 2 months. For curing the 
above without brine the authority quoted from suggests the follow- 
ing recipe : Twelve pounds fine salt, 2 quarts molasses, ^< pound 
saltpetre, well mixed, for 150 pounds of meat. Rub hams and 
shoulders thoroughly with the mixture, and lay out singly on a 
platform in a cool, dry place. At the end of the first and second 
week rub them again as at first, and then expose to continuous 
smoke for 10 days. 

A simpler plan, in which any portion or all of a hog's carcass 
can be cured, is to put a layer of ^ an inch or so of salt on a plat- 
form or the bottom of a box or cask, then a layer of meat, on this 
a layer of salt, and so on until all is packed and the top well covered 
with salt. All kinds of cured meat should be kept in a dry, dark, 
cool place. 

Raw meat should never be placed directly upon the ice as the 
25 



•386 MEATS. 

juices will be lost ; neither should it be allowed to remain wrapped 
in paper ; an uncovered dish should be placed on the ice to receive it. 

RENDERING LARD. 

A prominent Chicago packer gives the following directions for 
rendering lard so it will be nice and white: "Grind the fat or chop 
it as you would sausage meat, where you have but a small quantity, 
using the chopping-bowl and the potato-masher. The object is to 
get the fat into such a condition that the tissue and fibrine will 
separate quickly from the clear fat. Now, by mild heat and 
constant stirring, melt to the consistency of thin gruel, then scatter 
salt enough over the surface to carry down all the scraps. Salt does 
not melt in pure lard, and therefore will not give it a saline taste. 
Then allow it to settle, and dip the clear fat out into a vessel, using 
a strainer, or into another kettle, so as to remove all scraps from the 
bottom. After removal of scraps, cook for 15 minutes, so as to 
roast any scraps still remaining in the fat, and your lard is ready to 
put away and will keep as long as wanted. To keep lard it is neces- 
sary to raise the heat at 180"^ . It melts at 1 10 to 120*^ ". Let our 
farmers and their wives try the above method and they will never 
go back to the old way of cooking lard again. In answer to an 
inquiry as to how to prevent lard from boiling over while cooking, 
put in a Httle salt. This is the best known remedy. 

SUET. 

Suet will keep sweet for months if attended to when it comes 
into the house; all bits of skin, gristle, kidney or kernels must be 
removed and also any part of the suet that has been lying against 
meat and become reddened with blood. I have known suet to get 
musty in a week in cold weather for lack of this precaution, and 
by looking over it, and flouring it well, have kept it for months in 
mild weather. 

PORK — TO KEEP FRESH IN SUMMER. 

Take pork, when killed in the early part of the winter, and let 
it lie in pickle about i week or 10 days, or until just suf^ciently 



MEATS. 387 

salted to be palatable ; then slice it up and fry it about ]^ or -A, ^s 
much as you would for present eating; now lay it away in its own 
grease, in jars properly covered, in a cool place, as you would lard. 
Refry when ready to use. 

FRESH MEAT — TO KEEP A WEEK OR TWO IN SUMMER. 

Farmers or others, living at a distance from butchers, can keep 
fresh meat very nicely, for a week or two, by putting it into sour 
milk, or buttermilk, placing it in a cool cellar. The bone or fat 
need not be removed. Rinse well when used. 

BEEF — FOR WINTER OR PRESENT USE, AND FOR DRYING. 

Cut your beef into sizable pieces, sprinkle a little salt upon the 
bottom of the barrel only, then pack your beef without salt 
amongst it, and when packed pour over it a brine made by dissolv- 
ing 6 pounds of salt for each 100 pounds of beef in just sufficient cold 
water to> handsomely cover it; or for each 100 pounds of beef, use 
salt 5 pounds, saltpetre ^ ounce, brown sugar i pound ; dissolve 
in sufficient water to cover the meat ; 2 weeks after take up, 
drain, throw away the brine, make more the same as first, it will 
keep the season through ; when boiled for eating, put into boiling 
water; for soups into cold water. 

TO CURE HAMS. 

Take coarse salt, with a sprinkle of saltpetre, pepper and sugar; 
powder and mix; rub this in well a few times; smoke and wrap 
closely in paper of 4 folds or more; pack in dry ashes 4 inches 
thick around each ham. They will keep through the hottest of 
weather and be as good as new; or to each 100 pounds of hams 
take 8 pounds best coarse salt, 2 ounces saltpetre, 2 pounds brown 
sugar, and 4 gallons water. Slightly rub the hams with fine salt 
and pack firmly into the barrel. Mix the above after the hams 
have lain 2 days and pour over them ; it will just cover them. 
Let the hams remain in the brine 6 weeks, and they are then just 
right for smoking. 



388 MEATS. 

MAKING SAUSAGE. 

To lo pounds meat take 4 ounces dry salt, 5^ ounce pepper and 
I ounce finely ground sage. Cut the meat in strips and then grind 
all together; some people like them with less sage. When ground 
the easiest way to keep them is to put in long bags of old cloth, so 
that it will tear down easily when using the sausages. A convenient 
size for the bags is 3 inches in diameter, which makes proper shces 
for frying. 

BEEF SAUSAGES. 

To 3 pounds beef, very lean, put i^ pounds suet, and chop very 
fine ; season with sage in powder, allspice, pepper and salt ; have 
skins thoroughly cleaned, and force the meat into them. 

SPICED CORNED BEEF. 

To 10 pounds beef, take 2 cups salt, 2 cups molasses, 2 table- 
spoons saltpetre, i tablespoon ground pepper, i tablespoon cloves ; 
rub well into the beef, turn every day, and rub the mixture in; will 
be ready for use in 10 days. 

HEAD CHEESE. 

Having thoroughly cleaned a hog's or pig's head, split it open, 
take out the eyes and the brain ; clean the ears, throw scalding 
water over the head and ears, then scrape them well ; when very 
clean, put in a kettle with water to cover it, and set it over a rather 
quick fire; skim it as any scum rises; when boiled so that the flesh 
leaves the bones, take it from the water with a skimmer into a large 
wooden bowl or tray ; then take out every particle of bone, chop 
the meat fine, season to taste with salt and pepper (a little pounded 
sage may be added), spread a cloth over the colander, put the meat 
in, fold cloth closely over it, lay a weight on it so that it may press 
the whole surface equally (if it be lean use a heavy weight, if fat, a 
lighter one); when cold, take off weight, remove from colander, and 
place in crock. Some add vinegar in proportion of i pint to i gal- 
lon crock. Clarify the fat from the cloth, colander, and liquor of 
the pot, and use for frying. 



CHAPTKR XVI, 



POULTRY. 



TO CLEAN AND TRUSS POULTRY. 

First singe, by holding the bird over a blazing paper; it is best 
to do this over the open stove, when all the particles of burnt 
paper will fall into the fire; next open the vent and draw out the 
internal organs, if this has not been done at the butcher's; be care- 
ful not to break the gall-bladder; wash quickly in i water; if there 
are large black pin-feathers, take out what you can with the point 
of a knife — it is impossible to get out all — cut the oil bag from the 
tail ; be sure that you have taken out every part of the wind-pipe, 
the lights, and crop ; turn the skin back and cut the neck quite short ; 
fill the crop with dressing, and put some in the body also ; with a 
short skewer, fasten the legs together at the joint where the feet 
were cut off — be careful, in cutting off the feet of game or poultry, 
to cut in the joint; if you cut above, the ligaments that hold the 
flesh and bones together will be severed, and, in cooking, the meat 
will shrink, leaving a bare, unsightly bone ; besides, you will have 
nothing to hold the skewer, if the ligaments are cut off — run the 
skewer into the bone of the tail, and tie firmly with a long piece of 
twine; now take a longer skewer, and run through the 2 wings, 
fastening them firmly to the sides of the bird ; with another short 
skewer, fasten the skin of the neck on to the back-bone; place the 
bird on its breast, and draw the strings with which the legs were 
tied around the skewers in the wings and neck, pass them across 
the back 3 times, and tie very tightly. By following these direc- 
tions, you will have the bird in good shape, and all the strings on 
the back, so that you will avoid breaking the handsome crust that 
always forms on properly basted and roasted poultry. When 
cooked, first cut the strings, then draw out the skewers. The fat 
that comes from the vent and the gizzard of chickens should be 

389 



390 rOULTRY. 

tried out immediately, and put away for shortening and frying; 
that of geese, turkeys and ducks is of too strong a flavor to be nice 
in cookery. 

To clean the giblets: Cut the gall-bag from the lobe of the 
liver, cutting a little of the liver with it, so as not to cut into the 
bag; press the heart between the finger and thumb, to extract all 
the blood, with a sharp knife, cut lightly around the gizzard, and 
draw off the outer coat, leaving the lining coat whole; if you 
cannot do that — and it does require practice — cut in two, and, after 
removing the filling, take out the lining; when the poultry is to be 
boiled, and is stuffed, the vent must be sewed with mending-cotton 
or soft twine; unless the bird is full of dressing, this will not be 
necessary in roasting. 

CHICKEN SAUTE, A LA MARENGO. 

Cut the bird in pieces beginning with the wing. Cut a small 
piece of the breast out with the wing. This distributes the white 
meat with the wing, otherwise the wing is a poor part. Next cut 
off the wing side-bone and then the legs, cutting the upper joint in 
two near the middle, and the lower the same, dividing the second 
joint, which many think the best part of the chicken. This is bet- 
ter than giving all the best meat to one person. Next cut through 
the ribs, first i side then the other, taking the breast bone off and 
cutting it in 3 equal parts, trimming off the ends of the rib bones. 
It will then be easy to remove the entrails. Then break the neck 
and cut the backbone in 2 pieces. Save the heart, liver and giz- 
zard ; cut out the little sand-bag from the latter, and remove it all, 
instead of splitting it open and leaving the skin. In removing the 
gall take a part of the liver to make sure of no accident. Then 
place all these pieces in a sauce-pan, moistened with salad oil. , As 
soon as the chicken begins to be browned put in i tablespoon flour; 
stir together and let the whole become brown by cooking. Then 
cover the whole with hot water, and season well with salt and pep- 
per. If too much salt should be added, it may be counteracted by 
a little vinegar and sugar. If it is desired, olives or button onions 
may be added. If so, put them in when the hot water is put in 



POULTRY. 



39? 



and cook slowly. After the flour and water are added, stirring is 
necessary, and it should be done with a flat wooden stick, which 
will not scratch the pan like metal. White pepper is better than 
black, as it is more digestible and has not the hard pieces of shell. 
An apple corer can be used to take the stones out of the olives, 
but a more economical instrument is a small sharp knife, with 
which the olive can be peeled off the stone. The onions should be 
used whole, carefully relieved of the dry shell. When the chicken 
is sufficiently cooked, add i glass sherry or Madeira wine, but 
the wine should not be added until ready to serve. If the wine 
and olives are not used, you have a nice, brown fricassee. Those 
chickens are the best which have small bones, short legs, and clean, 
white-looking flesh. Chickens with white legs should be boiled, 
those with black legs roasted. The flesh of chickens is generally 
considered more digestible than any other animal food. 

TO CARVE ROAST FOWL. 

Insert the knife between the leg and the body, and cut to the 
bone; then turn the leg back with the fork, and, if the bird is not 
old, the joint will give way. The wing is next to be broken off, 
and this is done in the direction of du 

A to B, only dividing the joint with 
a knife. The 4 quarters having been 
removed in this way, take off the "_ 'V.^T^^'^s^^^S^:^ 
merry-thought and the neck bones ; —-v--.^--- - "_„ _ _ _^ --■-- ' 
these last are to be removed by putting the knife in at C and press- 
ing it, when they will break off from the part that sticks to the 
breast. Next, separate the breast from the body of the fowl by 
cutting through the tender ribs close to the breast, quite down to 
the tail. Turn the fowl now back upwards; put the knife into the 
bone midway between the neck and the rump, and on raising the 
lower end it will separate readily. Turn the rump from you and 
take off very neatly the 2 sidesmen, which completes the operation. 
The breast and wings are considered the best parts of a roast fowl, 
but in young fowls the legs are most juicy. In the case of a capon 
or large fowl, slices may be cut off the breast. 




f^^ ^ 



392 POULTRY. 



TO CARVE ROAST GOOSE. 




Begin by turning the neck end of a goose toward you, and cut- 
ting the whole breast in long slices, from one wing to another. 
(See the lines A B.) To take off the leg, insert the fork in the 
small end of the bone, pressing it to the body ; put the knife in at 

A, turn the leg back, and if the 
bird be young it will easily come 
awaj ; if old, we will not answer 
for it. To take off the wing, 
insert the fork in the small end 
of the pinion, and press it close 
to the body; put the knife in at B and divide the joint. When 
the leg and wing are off one side, attack those on the other; but, 
except when the company is very large, it is seldom necessary to 
cut up the whole goose. The back and lower side-bones, as well as 
the 2 side-bones of the wings, may be cut off ; but the best pieces 
of a goose are the breast and thighs, after being separated from the 
drumstick. Serve a little of the seasoning from the inside, by 
making a circular slice in the apron at C. Should there be no stuf- 
fing, a glass of wine, a little orange gravy or vinegar, may be poured 
into the body of the goose at the opening made at the apron by 
the carver. 

TO CARVE TURKEY. 

The breast of a turkey is so large that slices taken neatly from 
it and from the wings generally suffice for all the company. They 
should be taken from each side alternately, beginning close to the 
wings, and a little forcemeat and a small portion of liver should be 
served to each guest. When it is necessary that the legs should be 
used, they should be separated from the body with a sharp knife 
and cut in slices, but it should be remembered that they, with the 
gizzard, will make an excellent devil. 

BAKED CHICKEN. 

Split open in the back, season with salt and pepper, and plenty 
of butter; pour a little water into the pan, and, while baking, baste 



POULTRY. 393 

often, turning the chicken so as to nicely brown all over. When 
done, take up the chicken ; thicken the gravy with a little flour 
and serve in a gravy boat ; cut the gizzard and heart into fine 
pieces. Mash the liver with a spoon, and add them all. Chickens 
are nice stuffed and baked in the same manner as turkey. 

BRAISED CHICKENS. 

Stuff and truss a pair of well-grown fowls as for roasting. Lay 
them on slices of fat salt pork in a broad pot, pour over them i 
pint boiling water, cover closely and cook slowly 2 hours, or until 
the fowls are tender. Remove them then to a dripping-pan and 
let them brown in the oven while you strain the gravy that is left, 
thicken it with brown flour, and boil it until it is of the right con- 
sistency. Dish the fowls, season the gravy to taste and send to 
table in a boat. 

BREADED CHICKEN. 

Prepare young chickens as for fricassee by cutting them into 
pieces. Dip each piece in beaten egg, then in grated bread-crumbs 
or rolled cracker ; season them with pepper and salt, and a little 
minced parsley. Place them in a baking-pan, and put on the top of 
each piece a lump of butter, add yC cup hot water; bake slowly, 
basting often. When sufficiently cooked take up on a warm platter. 
Into the pan pour i cup cream or rich milk, i cup bread-crumbs. 
Stir it well until cooked then pour it over the chicken. Serve while 
hot. 

BROILED CHICKEN. 

Only young, tender chickens are nice broiled. After cleaning 
and washing them, split down the back, wipe dry, season with salt 
and pepper, and lay them inside down on a hot gridiron over a bed 
of bright coals. Broil until nicely browned and well cooked 
through, watching and turning to prevent burning. Broil with 
them a little salt pork, cut in thin slices. After taking them from 
the gridiron, work into them plenty of butter, and serve, garnished 
with the pork, slices of lemon and parsley. 



394 POULTRY. 

CHICKEN CURRY. 

One chicken, weighing 3 pounds ; 3,4 cup butter, 2 large onions, 
I heaping tablespoon curry powder, 3 tomatoes, or i cup of the 
canned article, enough cayenne to cover a silver 3-cent piece, salt, 
I cup milk. Put the butter and the onions, cut fine, on to cook. 
Stir all the while until brown ; then put in the chicken, which has 
been cut in small pieces, the curry, tomatoes, salt, and pepper. Stir 
well; cover tightly, and let simmer i hour, stirring occasionally; 
then add the milk. Boil up once, and serve with boiled rice. This 
makes a very rich and hot curry, but, for the real lover of the dish, 
none too much so. 

ESCALOPED CPIICKEN. 

Boil large, tender chickens until done, remove the skin and 
gristle, and chop the meat ; butter a large dish, put a layer of 
pounded crackers in the bottom of a dish, add some bits of butter, 
and moisten with cream. On this put a layer of chicken, season 
with white pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg; add bits 
of butter, and a few chopped oysters; put over this more of the 
cracker, butter, and cream, and then a layer of chicken ; cover the 
top with the cracker and butter ; bake in a hot oven. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Only young, tender chickens can be successfully fried; cut them 
in pieces as for fricassee ; dust with salt and pepper. Put 2 or 3 
ounces of butter or clarified drippings in a sauce-pan on the stove ; 
when melted, lay the pieces of chicken in the sauce-pan, cover 
closely and set where it will cook very slowly, until well done and 
nicely browned ; then turn and cook the other side in the same 
way. When done, remove to a hot platter, put some bits of butter 
on the chicken, set in the oven a moment and serve. Garnish with 
cress or parsley. If you like, prepare a gravy, by putting i coffee- 
cup of hot water into the sauce-pan; let simmer a few minutes, 
and thicken with browned flour. Send to the table in a gravy 
boat. Chickens may be cut in pieces and fried in hot drippings. 



POULTRY. 395 

with or without breading as preferred. Let the drippings be deep 
enough to float the pieces. 

FRICASSEED CHICKEN. 

Cut up chicken, and boil with a sHce or 2 of bacon in sufHcient 
water to cover till quite tender ; fry some pork, and, when cooked 
a little, drain the chicken and fry with the pork till brown; then 
take out and pour the broth into the frying-pan with the pork fat, 
and make a gravy thickened with browned flour, season well with 
butter, and put the chicken into the gravy. Be sure and have the 
fat quite hot when the chicken is put in, so it will brown readily. 

JELLIED CHICKEN. 

Cut up a large, fat, full-grown chicken ; put it on to cook with 
I bay leaf, i blade mace, i small white onion, ^ dozen cloves, a 
little pepper and salt. Cook slowly until the chicken is done ; take 
up, skin, and cut the meat from the bones ; put the skin, scraps, 
and bones back in the kettle, and simmer an hour longer ; add ^ 
box gelatine to the liquor, stir over the fire until dissolved ; put 
the chicken aside ; let the jelly cool ; then skim off all the fat, and 
set the jelly on the fire to melt, pour in a mold and set on ice; 
when hard, put a layer of chicken on top of the jelly, then slices of 
hard-boiled eggs, sprinkle with salt and pepper, then more chicken, 
and so on till all is used ; pour over the remainder of the jelly, which 
should be cold, but thin enough to cover the chicken ; stand on ice. 
When ready to serve, turn from the mold, and garnish with parsley. 

CHICKEN LOAF. 

The meat of i or 2 chickens, boiled tender and chopped fine ; line 
a mold with 3 hard-boiled eggs, thinly sliced, press the chicken in 
the center, well seasoned and moistened with the liquor in which it 
was boiled. Serve in thin slices when cold. 

CHICKEN AND MACARONI. 

One chicken boiled until very tender ; take all from the bones 
and pick up very fine ; boil ^ pound macaroni until tender, but 



396 POULTRY. 

keep it whole; cut in small pieces i inch long; butter a 2-quart 
charlotte-russe tin and line with the pieces of macaroni ; put in a 
layer of chicken, seasoned with the liquor boiled down, salt, pepper, 
and a very little butter, then a layer of macaroni, and so on until 
the dish is filled ; pour i cup cream over the whole, and bake ^ 
hour. Serve on a platter. 

CHICKEN A LA MATELOTE. 

Cut up an uncooked chicken ; rub in butter and flour, and brown 
in an oven ; fry in 4 tablespoons chicken fat, or butter, for about 
20 minutes, i small carrot, onion, and parsnip, all cut into dice ; 
when the chicken is browned, put it in a stew-pan with the cooked 
vegetables and i quart white stock ; then into the fat in which the 
vegetables were fried, put 2 tablespoons flour, and cook until brown ; 
stir this in with the chicken ; add the liver, mashed fine, i table- 
spoon capers, and salt and pepper to taste ; cook very gently ^ 
hour, then add % pound mushrooms, cut in small pieces; cook 15 
minutes longer. Serve with a border of boiled macaroni, mashed 
potatoes, or rice. 

POTTED CHICKEN. 

Strip the meat from the bones of a cold, roast fowl; to every 
pound of meat allow ]^ pound butter, salt and cayenne pepper to 
taste, I teaspoon pounded mace, }i a small nutmeg. Cut the meat 
into small pieces, pound it well with the butter, sprinkle in the 
spices gradually, and keep pounding until reduced to a perfectly 
smooth paste ; pack it into small jars and cover with clarified but- 
ter, about y^ inch thick. Two or 3 slices ham, minced and pounded 
with the above, will be an improvement. Keep in a dry place. A 
luncheon or breakfast dish. 

Old fowls can be made very tender by putting into them, while 
boiling, a piece of soda as large as a bean. 

CHICKEN MELANGE PIE. 

Boil 6 eggs hard and slice them ; cut all the meat from the 
bones of the chickens cooked Sunday, making a gravy of the bones. 



POULTRY 



397 



In this stew 3^ dozen sweet potatoes cut in quarters. When they are 
tender place a layer of these in the bottom of a greased pudding-dish. 
Sprinkle with pepper and salt, and place a layer of the chicken on 
top. Over this comes a stratum of hard-boiled eggs, followed by 
one of bacon, cut into very thin slices. Repeat the order of in- 
gredients as long as they last, and cover all with a good plain 
crust, first pouring in all the gravy left from the chicken bones. 
Bake until the crust is done. 

CHICKEN POT-PIE. 

Joint a chicken as for a fricassee, and put it into a wide sauce- 
pan with % pound salt pork, cut into narrow strips, and i minced 
onion ; pepper to taste ; the pork will salt it sufficiently ; pour 
in enough cold water to cover the contents of the pot well. Make 
a good biscuit dough or plain pie-paste, cut a round crust to fit the 
size of the pot and lay it over the chicken, etc.; stew 2 hours. 
Heat a stove shovel red hot and brown the crust by holding the 
shovel over it ; take ofT the crust carefully, that you may not break 
it, and put it aside where it will keep hot ; remove the chicken to 
a warm dish, bring the gravy left in a sauce-pan to a hard boil, and 
drop into it squares of your pie-paste; let them cook 10 minutes, 
take them out and arrange about the chicken. Thicken the gravy 
with I tablespoon butter rolled in flour, pour over the chicken and 
lay the baked crust on top of all. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Take 2 full-grown chickens, or more, if they are small, disjoint 
them and cut the backbone, etc., as small as convenient; boil them 
with a few slices of salt pork in water enough to cover them ; let 
them boil quite tender, then take out the breast bone. After they 
boil and the scum is taken off, put in a little onion, cut very fine, 
not enough to taste distinctly, but just enough to flavor a little; 
rub some parsley very fine, when dry, or cut fine when green — this 
gives a pleasant flavor. Season well with pepper and salt, and a 
few ounces of good, fresh butter. When all is cooked well, have 
liquid enough to cover the chicken ; then beat 2 eggs and stir in 



398 poult:<v. 

some sweet cream. Line a 5-quart pan with a crust made like bak- 
ing powder or cream biscuit, but have it rich, put in the chicken and 
hquid, then cover with a crust the same as the hning. Bake till the 
crust is done, and you will have a good chicken pie. 

PRESSED' CHICKEN. 

Boil I or 2 chickens in a small quantity of water, with a little 
salt ; when thoroughly done, take all the meat from the bones, 
keeping the light and dark meat separate ; chop fine and season. 
Put in a pan a layer of dark and light meat ; add the liquor it was 
boiled in, which should be about a cupful. Press with a small 
weight ; when cold, cut in slices. 

CHICKEN PUDDING. 

Cut up the chickens and stew until tender. Then take them 
from the gravy, and spread on a flat dish to cool, having first well- 
seasoned them with butter, pepper and salt. Make a batter of i 
quart milk, 3 cups flour, 3 tablespoons melted butter, Yj, teaspoon 
soda, I teaspoon cream of tartar, and a little salt. Butter a pud- 
ding-dish and put a layer of the chicken at the bottom, and then i 
cup batter over it ; proceed till the dish is full; the batter must 
form the crust. Bake l hour, and serve the thickened gravy in a 
gravy boat. 

STEWED CHICKENS. 

Chickens prepared in the following manner are a pleasant 
change from the usual fricassee : Cut up 2 young chickens, cook 
them for 1/ hour in a sauce-pan with a little bacon cut in dice, 
adding thyme, 2 bay leaves, i small onion, parsley and a piece of 
butter. Mix the yolks of 3 eggs in ^A cup cream and pour the 
mixture over the chickens, taking the sauce-pan instantly off the 
fire. Arrange the pieces of chicken symmetrically on a dish and 
serve. 

CHICKEN AND RICE. 

Two cups boiled rice, i cup cold chicken chopped fine, i cup 
chicken broth, salt and pepper; boil 5 minutes stirring all the while. 



See " Salads y 



rouLTRV. 399 

CHICKEN SALAD. 
BRAISED DUCKS. 



Prepare the ducks exactly like chickens for the dressing, which 
should be seaioned with butter, sage and onions, as well as salt and 
pepper ; put them in a pot with some chopped onions, a little 
butter and water enough to steam ; let them stew gently with the 
lid on, and then let the water evaporate and then brown them. 
Serve with green pease and jelly. 

DUCKS A LA FRANCAISE. 

Lard the breast of a duck with bacon and put it in the oven for 

1 hour, and then put it into a stew-pan of gravy previously pre- 
pared in the following manner: To i pint of beef gravy add 2 dozen 
chestnuts, roasted and peeled, 2 onions, sliced and fried in butter, 

2 sage leaves, and a sprig of thyme, pepper and salt. When the 
duck has stewed till tender put it on a dish, add y^ pint port 
wine to the gravy, a little butter, and flour to thicken; pour it over 
the duck and serve. 

FRICASSEED DUCK. 

Most people think a duck must be roasted, but try this once 
instead : Cut a mallard or red duck into quarters ; chop i onion 
fine, and put all into a pot ; cover with water, and add more as it 
boils away. Stir in a little celery seed, or celery chopped fine, 3 
or 4 strips salt pork, and, when nearly done, add i tablespoon 
Worcestershire sauce. Build a mound of mashed potatoes around 
your dish and carefully lay the contents of the fricassee in the 
center. Season with salt and pepper. This makes a juicy and 
delicious dish. 

DUCK A LA MODE. 

Take a couple of ducks, divide them into quarters and lay them 
in a stew-pan with a sprinkling of flour, pepper and salt. Put a 
large lump of butter divided into pieces at the bottom of the stew- 



400 POULTRY. 

pan and fry the ducks until they are a nice Hght-brown color. 
Remove tlic frying-pan and put in ^ pint gravy and i glass port 
wine ; sprinkle more flour and add i bunch sweet herbs, 2 or 3 shallots 
minced fine, i anchovy, and a little cayenne ; when the ducks have 
stewed in the gravy till tender, put them on a dish, take out the 
herbs, clear off any fat, and serve with the sauce thrown over them, 

R(3AST DUCK — Tame. 

Pick, draw, clean thoroughly, and wipe dry; cut the neck close 
to the back, beat the breast-bone flat with a rolling-pin, tie the 
wings and legs securely, and stuff with the following: Three pints 
bread-crumbs, 6 ounces butter, or part butter and salt pork, 2 
chopped onions, and i teaspoon each of sage, black pepper and 
salt ; do not stuff very full, and sew up the openings firmly to keep 
the flavor in and the fat out ; if not fat enough, it should be larded 
with salt pork, or tie a slice upon the breast ; place in a baking-pan, 
with a little water, and baste frequently with salt and water — some 
add onion, and some vinegar; turn often, so that the sides and 
back may all be nicely browned; when nearly done, baste with 
butter and a little flour. These directions will apply to tame geese 
as well as ducks. Young ducks should roast from 25 to 30 minutes, 
and full-grown ones for i hour or more, with frequent basting — some 
prefer them underdone and served very hot, but, as a rule, thorough 
cooking will prove more palatable. Make a gravy out of the neck 
and gizzards by putting them in i quart cold water, that must be 
reduced to i pint by boiling; the giblets, when done, may be 
chopped fine and added to the juice; the preferred seasonings are 
I tablespoon Madeira or sherry, i blade mace, i small onion, and a 
litle cayenne pepper; strain through a hair sieve; pour a little over 
the ducks and serve the remainder in a boat. Served with jellies, 
or any tart sauce. 

STEWED DUCKS. 

Stuff I pair ducks, as for roasting; make a gravy of the giblets, 
by cutting them in pieces, covering them with 2 cups water and 
stewing 2 hours; lay the ducks, stuffed and trussed, in a dripping- 



POULTRY. 401 

pan, dilute the gravy from the giblets until there is enough to half 
immerse the ducks when it is poured over them, cover them with 
a pan of the same size as the other, and let them simmer in this 
for from 2 to 3 hours ; take them out and keep them hot while you 
thicken the gravy in the pan with browned flour, boil it up once 
and stir in the juice of i lemon — or better still, 2 teaspoons cur- 
rant jelly ; pass currant jelly with the ducks. This is an excellent 
way of disposing of old, tough ducks, which would be uneatable if 
roasted in the ordinary manner. 

TO BOIL GOOSE., 

Pick and singe a goose carefully; let it soak in lukewarm milk 
and water for 8 or 10 hours; stuff and truss it securely ; put it into 
a sauce-pan with as much cold water as will cover it ; bring to a 
boil, and let it simmer gently till done enough; send good onion 
sauce to the table with it. Time, from i to i ^^ hours after it has 
boiled. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

Pluck the goose, carefully remove the quill-sockets and singe off 
the hairs ; cut off the neck close to the back, leaving the skin long 
enough to turn over. After drawing, wash and wipe the bird both 
inside and out, and cut off the feet and pinions at the first joint , 
pull out the throat and tie the end securely ; beat the breast-bone 
flat with a rolling-pin ; draw the legs up closely, and put a skewer 
through them and through the body ; cut off the end of the vent, 
and make a hole in the skin large enough for the rump to go., 
through ; this will prevent the seasoning from escaping. Make a 
stuffing of bread-crumbs, onions and potatoes cut fine ; season 
with pepper, salt, sage, and butter the size of an egg ; fill the goose 
and tie down the wings; roast 2}i hours. Boil the liver and heart 
and add to the gravy, which must be thickened with flour. Send 
to table with apple sauce and mashed potatoes. 

ROAST GOOSE, NO. 2. 

A goose roasted after the German style may be admitted to the 
table as a variation. Rub the goose the previous night with salt, 

26 



402 POULTRY. 

pepper, sage, thyme, and sweet marjoram inside and out ; in the 
morning prepare the dressing: A large handful of stoned raisins 
and Zante currants to bread-crumbs or crumbled crackers ; 2 sour 
apples chopped fine, and i mealy potato mixed in with butter, and 
all well rolled together without spices. For the gravy boil the 
giblets in a little water and mash the liver in i spoon flour, chop 
the gizzards, stir these in the liquid they were boiled in, add it to 
the gravy in the dripping-pan, sprinkle in a little thyme, sage and 
sweet marjoram, and it is done. Serve the gravy separately. When 
the goose is served, garnish it with sliced lemon and some sprigs of 
parsley. 

BONED TURKEY. 

Get a turkey that has not been frozen — freezing makes it tear 
easily ; see that every part is whole — one with a little break in the 
skin will not do ; cut off the legs, in the joints, and the tips of the 
wings ; do not draw the bird ; place it on its breast, and with a 
small, sharp boning-knife, cut in a straight line through to the bone, 
from the neck down to that part of the bird where there is but 
little flesh, where it is all skin and fat ; begin at the neck, and run 
the knife between the flesh and the bones until you come to the 
wing; then cut the ligaments that hold the bones together and the 
tendons that hold the flesh to the bones; with the thumb and fore- 
finger, /rr^j- the flesh from the smooth bone ; when you come to the 
joint, carefully separate the ligaments and remove the bone ; do 
not try to take the bone from the next joint, as that is not in the 
way when carving, and it gives a more natural shape to the bird; 
now begin at the wish-bone, and when that is free from the flesh, 
run the knife between the sides and the flesh, always using the 
fingers to press the meat from the smooth bones, as, for instance, 
the breast bone and lower part of the sides; work around the legs 
the same as you did around the wings, always using great care at 
the joints not to cut the skin; drawing out the leg-bones turns 
that part of the bird inside out ; turn the bird over, and proceed in 
the same manner with the other side; when all is detached, care- 
fully draw the skin from the breast-bone ; then run the knife 



POULTRY. 403 

between the fat and bone at the rump, leaving the small bone in the 
extreme end, as it holds the skewers; carefully remove the flesh 
from the skeleton, and turn it right side out again ; rub into it 
2 tablespoons salt and a little pepper, and fill with dressing ; 
sew up the back and neck, and then the vent ; truss the same 
as if not boned ; take a strong piece of cotton cloth and pin 
the bird firmly in it, drawing very tight at the legs, as this is the 
broadest place, and the shape will not be good unless this precau^ 
tion be taken; steam 3 hours, and then place on a buttered tin 
sheet, which put in a baking-pan; baste well with butter, pepper, 
salt and flour; roast i hour, basting every 10 minutes, and twice 
with stock; when cold, remove the skewers and strings, and garnish 
with aspic jelly (see " Saticcs, Catsups a?id Dressings "), cooked 
beets, and parsley. To carve: First cut off the wings, then about 
2 thick slices from the neck, where it will be quite fat, and then cut 
in thin slices. Serve jelly with each plate. 

Filling for a turkey weighing 8 pounds: The flesh of i chicken 
weighing 4 pounds, i pound clear veal, ^ pound clear salt pork, i 
small cup cracker-crumbs, 2 eggs, i cup broth, 2^ teaspoons salt, ^ 
teaspoon pepper, i teaspoon summer savory, i of sweet marjoram, 
I of thyme, ^ teaspoon sage, and, if you like, i tablespoon capers, 
I quart oysters, and 2 tablespoons onion-juice; have the meat 
uncooked and free from any tough pieces; chop very fine; add 
seasoning, crackers, etc., mix thoroughly, and use ; if oysters are 
used Yz pound of the veal must be omitted ; where one cannot eat 
veal, use chicken instead ; veal is recommended for its cheapness. 
Why people choose boned turkey, instead of a plain roast turkey or 
chicken is not plain, for the flavor is not so good ; but at the times 
and places where boned birds are used, it is a very appropriate dish. 
That is, at suppers, lunches, and parties, where the guests are 
served standing, it is impracticable to provide anything that can- 
not be broken with a fork or spoon ; therefore the advantage of a 
boned turkey, chicken, or bird is apparent. One turkey, weighing 
8 pounds before being boned will serve 30 persons at a party, if 
there are, also, say oysters, rolls, coffee, ices, cake and cream. If 
the supper is very elaborate, the turkey will answer for i of the 



404 POULTRY. 

dishes for lOO or more persons. If nothing more were gained in 
the boning of a bird, the knowledge of the anatomy, and the help 
this will give in carving, pay to bone 2 or 3 chickens. It is advisable 
to bone at least 2 fowls before trying a turkey, for if you spoil them 
there is nothing lost, as they make a stew or soup. 

BONED TURKEY, NO. 2. 

Select a fat young turkey ; bone as directed in No. i ; turn the 
legs and wings inside out, and draw them inside the turkey ; bone 
a tender chicken, dredge both with salt and pepper; put the 
chicken inside the turkey; mix i pound lean ham chopped, i cup 
grated cracker, and 3 well-beaten eggs ; season with herbs, form in 
a roll and place inside the chicken, draw the skin of the turkey 
together and sew up ; then press and work with the hands until 
the mass is an even roll; wrap tightly in a cloth and tie; put the 
bones and scraps of the chicken and turkey in the soup kettle with 
y^ an onion, i carrot sliced, 4 cloves, a little parsley, thyme, and 
sweet marjoram ; cover with cold water, bring gently to a boil, and 
let simmer for 4 hours; take from the fire and let cool in the 
liquor, then take up and lay on a large dish, weight down with a 
board and stand away over night ; in the morning remove the cloth, 
brush with beaten &^o and cracker crumbs, place in a very hot 
oven to brown, then stand away until very cold; garnish with aspic 
jelly (^see ^^ Sauces, Catsups and Dressings "). When serving, slice very 
thin. 

BOILED TURKEY. 

Stuff the turkey as for roasting. A very nice dressing is made 
by chopping ^ pint oysters and mixing them with bread-crumbs, 
butter, pepper, salt, thyme, and wet with milk or water. Baste 
about the turkey a thin cloth, the inside of which has been dredged 
with flour, and put it to boil in cold water with i teaspoon salt in 
it. Let a large turkey simmer for 3 hours. Skim while boiling. 
Serve with oyster sauce, made by adding to i cup of the liquor in 
which the turkey was boiled the same quantity of milk and 8 
oysters chopped fine; season with minced parsley; stir in i spoon 



POULTRY. 405 

rice or wheat flour wet with cold milk, and i tablespoon butter. Boil 
up once and pour into a tureen. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Select a plump turkey, and when it has been carefully prepared 
— picked, singed, drawn, washed, wiped and trussed — season the 
inside with pepper and salt, and stuff with any dressing or force- 
meat preferred ; sew up the opening with strong, not coarse, 
thread. Put the fowl into a baking-pan with 2 or 3 ounces butter, 
and roast in a hot oven until well done, basting frequently, first 
with the butter and then with the drippings. Do not forget that 
the basting is an important part of the process of baking all kinds 
of meats, especially that of fowls ; if this is neglected the meat 
will be dry and hard, instead of tender and juicy. Allow at least 5 
hours for baking a large turkey, and keep the oven hot from the 
moment the fowl is put into it until it comes out brown, tender 
and toothsome. Boil the giblets and neck in i pint water until 
tender ; then mash the liver and chop the gizzard as fine as possible 
and add them to the gravy, which make as follows: When you 
take the turkey from the baking-pan, pour off the drippings, set 
the pan on the top of the stove ; add the water in which the giblets 
were cooked — there should be at least ^ of a pint — rub the glaze 
from the bottom of the pan with the back of a spoon ; let boil up 
and add the prepared giblets ; thicken with browned flour ; season 
with pepper and salt, and send to the table in a gravy tureen. 
Serve cranberry sauce or jelly, currant jelly or spiced currants, with 
roast or baked turkey. 

ROAST TURKEY, NO. 2. 

Rinse out the turkey well with soda and water, then with salt, 
lastly with clear water. Stuff with a dressing made of bread- 
crumbs, wet up with butter and water and season to your taste. 
Stuff the craw and tie up the neck. Fill the body and sew up the 
vent. We need hardly say that the strings are to be clipped and 
removed after the fowl has been roasted. Tie the legs to the lower 
part of the body that they may not " sprawl " as the sinews shrink. 



406 POULTRY. 

Put into the dripping-pan, pour i cup boiling water over it, and 
roast, basting often, allowing about lo minutes' time for every 
pound. Be careful not to have your oven too hot — especially for 
the first hour or so. The turkey would, otherwise, be dry and 
blackened on the outside and raw within. Much of the perfection 
of roasting poultry depends upon basting faithfully. Boil the gib- 
lets tender in a little water. When the turkey is done, set it where 
it will keep warm ; skim the gravy left in the pan ; add a little 
boiling water; thicken slightly with browned flour; boil up once 
and add the giblets minced fine. Season to taste; give another 
boil, and send to table in a gravy-boat. 

ROAST TURKEY WITH CHESTNUT STUFFING AND SAUCE. 

Clean the turkey and lard the breast. Throw 50 large chestnuts 
into boiling water for a few minutes ; then take them up, and rub 
off the thin, dark skin ; cover them with boiling water, and simmer 
for I hour ; take them up, and mash fine. Chop i pound veal and 
Yi pound salt pork very fine; add ^ of the chestnuts to this, and 
add, also, yi tablespoon pepper, 2 teaspoons salt, and i cup stock or 
or water. Stuff the turkey with this; truss and roast: serve with 
a chestnut sauce. The remaining yi of the chestnuts are for this 
sauce. 

POTTED TURKEY. 

Turkey may either be potted whole or cut into neat joints and 
potted, or the flesh may be picked from the bones and pounded 
before it is put into the jars. In any case the meat must be thickly 
covered with butter, or it will not keep. When the meat is not 
pounded, the joints must be packed together as closely as possible, 
or they will require a good deal of butter. Birds which are boned 
and stufTed are excellent potted ; they must be quite fresh, must be 
carefully cleaned, nicely seasoned, baked, and quite cold before they 
are put into the jars, and the butter must be clarified before it is 
poured over them. If the meat is to be kept, the jar should be 
covered with bladder and tied down closely. Potted chicken is 
improved by pounding a little fat and lean ham with the meat. 



POULTRY. 407 

POULTRY WINGS. 

Turkey and chicken wings prepared this way are very nice for 
luncheon or supper : Season them, stew them in as Httle water as 
possible until they are tender, when take them out and let get cold. 
Then egg-and-bread-crumb them, and fry in hot butter. Serve with 
a tomato sauce. 



COLD POULTRY DISHES. 



CROQUETTES OF CHICKEN. 

Mince fine the remains of a roast or boiled chicken or turkey. 
Add 2 well-beaten eggs, and flavor to taste with pepper, salt and a 
very little grated lemon-peel ; then stir in i ounce finely crumbed 
bread, and form into the shape of pears, not too large ; roll in 
beaten Qgg, then in bread-crumbs, and fry in boiling lard to a light 
brown ; dish in a warm napkin or entree dish, after having stuck a 
stalk of parsley in each for a stem. Try them ; they are nice. 

CHICKEN HASH. 

This is the proper way to serve for breakfast whatever roast or 
boiled chicken may be left over from dinner. Mince the cold 
chicken, but not very fine, and to i cup meat add 2 tablespoons 
good butter, ^ cup milk, enough minced onion to give a slight 
flavor, and salt, mace and pepper to taste. Stew it, taking care to 
stir it, and serve with a garnish of parsley, if you like it. Every 
particle of bone must be extracted. 

CHICKEN RISSOLES. 

Take cold baked chicken left from dinner ; free the meat from 
the bones and chop fine. Rub a little dried bread into fine crumbs, 
and to this add any heated liquor of chicken, or hot water, and 
moisten the bread thoroughly. To i-pint bowl crumbs and meat — 
the proportion may be as necessity makes it — allow i tablespoon 



408 POULTRY. 

salt, I of pepper, i of sifted sage and i heaping teaspoon butter. 
Make into little cakes, dust with flour and fry to a light brown. 

MINCED FOWLS. 

Remove from the bones all the flesh of either cold roast or 
boiled fowls; clean it from the skin, and keep covered from the air 
until ready for use ; boil the bones and skin with ^ pint water 
until reduced quite half; strain the gravy and let cool; next, having 
first skimmed off the fat, put it into a clean sauce-pan with yi cup 
cream, 3 ounces butter, well mixed with i tablespoon flour; keep 
these stirred until they boil; then put in the fowl, finely minced 
with 3 hard-boiled eggs, chopped, and sufficient salt and pepper to 
season; shake the mince over the fire until just ready to boil; dish 
it on hot toast, and serve. 

CHICKEN PATTIES. 

Mince up fine cold chicken, either roasted or boiled. Season it 
with pepper and salt, and a little minced parsley and onion. 
Moisten it with chicken gravy or cream sauce, fill scalloped shells 
that are lined with pastry with the mixture, and sprinkle bread- 
crumbs over the tops. Put 2 or 3 tiny pieces of butter over each, 
and bake brown in a hot oven. 

FRIED TURKEY. 

Not every one, however, knows how to fry turkey. Cut in neat 
pieces the remains of the turkey, make a batter of beaten eggs and 
fine bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and pounded mace or 
nutmeg, add a few sprigs of parsley ; dip the pieces into this and 
fry them a light brown. Take a good gravy, thicken with flour and 
butter, and flavor with mushroom or other catsup, and pour over 
them. Serve with sippets and sliced lemon. Few breakfast dishes 
are more delicious. 

TURKEY HASHED. 

Cut the remnants of turkey from a previous dinner into pieces 
of equal size. Boil the bones in i quart water, until the quart is 



POULTRY. 409 

reduced to i pint ; then take out the bones, and to the liquor in 
which they were boiled add turkey gravy, if you have any, or white 
stock, or a small piece of butter with salt and pepper; let the liquor 
thus prepared boil up once; then put in the pieces of turkey, 
dredge in a little flour, give it one boil-up, and serve in a hot dish. 

TURKEY SCALLOP. 

Pick the meat from the bones of cold turkey, and chop it fine. 
Put a layer of bread-crumbs on the bottom of a buttered dish, 
moisten them with a little milk, then put in a layer of turkey with 
some of the filling, and cut small pieces of butter over the top ; 
sprinkle with pepper and salt ; then another layer of bread-crumbs, 
and so on until the dish is nearly full ; add a little hot water to the 
gravy left from the turkey and pour over it ; then take 2 eggs, 2 
tablespoons milk, i melted butter, a little salt and cracker-crumbs 
as much as will make it thick enough to spread on with a knife ; put 
bits of butter over it, and cover with a plate. Bake ^ hour. Ten 
minutes before serving, remove the plate and let it brown. 

TURKEY WARMED OVER. 

Pieces of cold turkey or chicken may be warmed up with a 
little butter in a frying-pan ; place it on a warm platter, surround 
it with pieces of small thick slices of bread or biscuit halved, first 
dipping them in hot salted water ; then place the platter in a warm 
oven, with the door open ; have already made the following gravy 
to pour over all: Into the frying-pan put i tablespoon butter, i or 
2 cups milk, and any gravy that may be left over; bring it to a 
boil ; then add sufficient flour, wet in a little cold milk or water, to 
make it the consistency of cream ; season with salt, pepper, and 
add a little of the dark meat chopped very fine ; let the sauce cook 
a few minutes, then pour over the biscuit and fowl. This will be 
found a really nice dish. 

For ^'■Forcemeats and Stuffings,'' see chapter on meats. 



CHAPTER XVII. 



PICKLES. 



In making pickles use none but the best cider vinegar. Never 
keep pickles in glazed earthenware, but in wood, glass or hard 
stoneware, and well covered with vinegar. Do not use metal 
utensils in making them as the vinegar, acting upon the metal 
produces a poison. They should be examined every month or two, 
and soft pieces removed. If there is much tendency to soften, it 
is advisable to strain off the vinegar, add to each gallon i cup sugar, 
boil it, and return it to the pickle jar while hot. The occasional 
addition of a little sugar keeps pickles good, and improves them. 
Spices in pickles should be used whole, slightly bruised, but prefer- 
ably not ground ; if ground they should be tied up in thin muslin 
bags. Most pickles, if well kept, improve with age by the vinegar 
losing its raw taste and the flavor of the spices improving and 
blending. 

PICKLED ARTICHOKES. 

Boil the artichokes in strong salt and water for 2 or 3 minutes; 
lay on a hair sieve to drain ; when cold, lay in narrow-topped jars ; 
take as much white wine vinegar as will cover the artichokes, and 
boil it with I or 2 blades mace, some root ginger, and i nutmeg 
grated fine. Pour it on hot, seal and put away for use. 

PICKLED BUTTERNUTS AND WALNUTS. 

Gather them when soft enough to be pierced by a pin ; lay them 
in brine 5 days, changing this twice in the meantime ; drain and 
wipe them with a coarse cloth ; pierce each by running a large 
needle through it, and lay in cold water for 6 hours. To each 
gallon of vinegar allow i cup sugar, 3 dozen each of cloves and black 
peppers, ^ as much allspice, and i dozen blades mace ; boil 5 min- 

410 



PICKLES. 411 

utes ; pack the nuts in small jars and pour over them scalding hot ; 
repeat this twice within a week ; tie up and set away. They will 
be good to eat in a month. 

PICKLED BEANS. 

The beans should be gathered young; place them in a strong 
brine of salt and water ; when turning yellow, which will be in i 
or 2 days, remove them and wipe them dry ; boil the vinegar with 
a little mace, whole pepper, and ginger (2 ounces pepper and i 
ounce each of ginger and mace to each quart vinegar) ; pour this 
over the beans ; a small bit of alum, or i teaspoon soda will bring 
back the color ; cover them to keep in the steam and reboil the 
vinegar the next day; throw over hot as before ; cover, but do not 
tie down till cold. 

PICKLED BEETS. 

Take the beets, cleanse and boil 2 hours ; when cold peel and 
slice, put into a jar and cover with vinegar prepared in the following 
manner: Boil ^ ounce each of cloves, pepper-corns, mace and 
ginger in i pint vinegar, when cold add another pint. 

PICKLED BROCOLI. 

Choose the finest, whitest and closest vegetables before they are 
quite ripe ; pare off all green leaves and the outsides of the stalks ; 
parboil them in well-salted water ; when drained and dry pull off 
the branches in convenient-sized pieces and put them into a jar of 
pickle prepared as for onions. Time to parboil, 4 or 5 minutes. 

BOTTLED PICKLES. 

Wash and wipe small cucumbers ; put into a stone jar and cover 
with salt — allowing i pint salt to ^ bushel cucumbers — and pour 
over them boiling water enough to cover. Place i gallon at a time 
on the stove, cover with vinegar, and add i lump alum about the 
size of a hickory-nut. Put on the stove in another kettle i gallon 
of the very best cider vinegar, to which add ^ pint brown sugar ; 
have bottles cleansed and placed to heat on stove in a vessel of 



412 PICKLES. 

cold water; also have a cup of heated sealing-wax. Have spices 
prepared in separate dishes as follows : Green and red peppers 
sliced in rings, horse-radish roots washed, scraped and cut in small 
pieces, black and yellow mustard seed if liked, each prepared by 
sprinkling with salt and pouring on some boiling water, which let 
stand for 15 minutes and then draw off, stick of cinnamon broken 
into pieces and a few cloves. When pickles come to boiling point, 
take out and pack in bottles, mixing with them the spices ; put in 
a layer of pickles, then a layer of spices, shaking the bottles occa- 
sionally so as to pack tightly. When full, cover with the boiling 
hot vinegar from the other kettle (using a bright funnel and tin 
cup), going over them a second time and filling up, in order to sup- 
ply shrinkage, for the pickles must be entirely covered with vinegar; 
put in the corks, which should fit very snugly ; lift each bottle and 
dip the cork end in the hot sealing-wax ; proceed in this manner 
with each bottle, dipping each a second time into the wax so that 
they may be perfectly secure. Glass cans, the covers of which have 
become defective, can be used by supplying corks. Pickles prepared 
in this way are superior to imported pickles. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Take small cucumbers, wash and place in jars ; let stand over 
night in a weak, brine. In the morning scald in weak vinegar, with 
a small lump of alum added ; then put into cans a layer of cucum- 
bers and scatter over white mustard seed, red peppers and horse- 
radish, cut in small pieces, and whole black pepper according to 
strength desired ; in this manner fill the cans ; heat strong cider 
vinegar, and pour hot over them until cans are full ; place a grape 
leaf on the top and seal. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES, NO. 2. 

Six hundred small cucumbers, 2 quarts peppers, 2 quarts small 
onions. Make enough brine to cover the pickles, allowing i pint 
salt to 4 quarts water, and pour it, boiling, over the pickles. Let 
them stand until the next morning ; then pour off the brine, throw 
it away, make a new one, and scald again. The 3rd morning 



PICKLES. 413 

scald this same brine and pour it over again. The 4th morning 
rinse the pickles well in cold water, and cover them with boiling 
vinegar ; add a little piece of alum, and 2 tablespoons each of 
whole cloves and allspice, tied in a bit of muslin, if you like the 
spice. 

GREEN PICKLED CUCUMBERS. 

Make a brine, strong enough to bear an egg, and put in your 
cucumbers ; let them remain 3 weeks, then pour off the salt water 
and throw them into cold water for 24 hours; line the kettle with 
grape leaves, put in your cucumbers in layers, with grape leaves 
between, and cover well with leaves ; pour over them vinegar and 
water with a lump of alum to green them. Alurn^ the size of a 
pigeon's egg is sufificient for a 2-gallon kettle full. Let the vinegar 
and water heat, but not boil. When the pickles are green, throw 
them into cold water. Prepare your vinegar ; to a gallon allow i 
cup sugar, 3 dozen whole black peppers, the same of cloves, yi as 
much allspice and mace, some pieces of horse-radish, and a small 
red pepper, and several tablespoons mustard seed. Let the vinegar 
come to a boil, and when cold, pour over your cucumbers; tie up 
closely and in a few weeks they will be ready for use. 

CUCUMBERS IN BRINE. 

Leave at least i inch of stem to the cucumbers, and wash well 
in cold water ; make a brine of salt and water strong enough to 
bear an egg ; put your cucumbers in this as you gather them each 
day from the vines. Cut a board so as to fit inside your barrel ; 
bore holes here and there through it, and put this board on the 
cucumbers with a weight sufificient to keep it down, and each day 
take off the scum that rises. When wanted for use, take out what 
is necessary and soak them 2 or 3 days, or until the salt is out of 
them, and then pour boiling spiced vinegar over them. A red pep- 
per or two is an improvement if one likes hot pickles. 

PICKLED CABBAGE. 

Select solid heads, slice very fine, put in a jar, then cover with 
boiling water ; when cold, drain off the water, and season with 



414 PICKLES. 

grated horse-radish, salt, equal parts black and red pepper, cinna- 
mon and whole cloves. 

PICKLED CABBAGE, NO. 2. 

Slice red cabbage very thin ; put on it a little coarse salt, and 
let it rest 24 hours to drain ; add sliced onions, if you like them ; 
boil 4 spoons pepper and 4 of allspice in i quart vinegar, and pour 
it over. 

PICKLED CAULIFLOWER. 

Choose such as are firm, yet of their full size ; cut away all the 
leaves and pare the stalks ; pull away the flowers in bunches, steep 
in brine 2 days, then drain them, wipe them dry, and put them in 
hot pickle, or merely infuse, for 3 days, 3 ounces curry powder in 
each quart of vinegar. 

PICKLED CAULIFLOWER, NO. 2. 

These should be sliced and salted for 2 or 3 days, then drained, 
and spread upon a dry cloth before the fire for 24 hours; after 
which they are put into a jar, and covered with spiced vinegar. 

TO HARDEN PICKLES. 

After they are taken out of the brine take a lump of alum and 
a horse-radish cut in strips ; put this in the vinegar, and it will 
make them hard and crisp. When you wish to make a few cucum- 
ber pickles quickly, take good cider vinegar, heat it boiling hot and 
pour it over them. When cool, they are ready for use. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

Two quarts green tomatoes, 2 white onions, 6 green peppers, 12 
cucumbers, 2 heads cabbage, all chopped fine ; let this stand over 
night ; sprinkle i cup salt in it. In the morning drain off the brine, 
and season with i tablespoon celery seed, i ounce turmeric, ^ tea- 
spoon cayenne pepper, i cup brown sugar, i teaspoon each of cin- 
namon, allspice and black pepper, ^ ounce cloves, vinegar enough 
to cover, and boil 2 hours. 



PICKLES. 415 

CHOW-CHOW, NO. 2. 

Two heads cabbage, 2 heads cauHflower, 12 cucumbers, 6 roots 
celery, 6 peppers, i quart small white onions, 2 quarts green toma- 
toes ; cut into small pieces and boil each vegetable separately until 
tender, then strain them ; 2 gallons of vinegar, y^ pound mustard, 
^ pound mustard seed, i pot French mustard, i ounce cloves, 2 
ounces turmeric; put the vinegar and spices into a kettle and let 
them come to a boil ; mix the vegetables and pour over the 
dressing. 

CHOW-CHOW, NO. 3. 

Take i peck small cucumbers, J^ peck green tomatoes, ^ peck 
small onions, and 2 or 3 heads of cauliflower, 6 green peppers cut in 
small pieces or slices. After preparing these by peeling the onions, 
separating the cauliflower into bits, cutting the cucumbers in pieces 
and slicing the green tomatoes, if they are not very small, sprinkle 
salt over them all, and let them stand 24 hours ; then rinse the salt 
off and drain well ; then take vinegar enough to cover the pickles, 3 
heads of celery broken in small pieces, a handful of scraped horse- 
radish root, yi ounce turmeric and ground cloves, 2 ounces each of 
ground black pepper and of sugar, ^ pound each of white mustard 
seed and ground mustard, and put all these into cold vinegar, not 
too strong, and boil for 15 minutes, then pour over the pickles. 
The chow-chow will be ready for use in a few weeks, but is better 
when older. Put in bottles or glass jars. 

PICKLED CHERRIES. 

Take the largest and ripest red cherries, remove the stems, have 
ready a large glass jar, fill it ^ full with cherries, and fill up to the 
top with best vinegar; keep it well covered and no boiling or spice 
is necessary, as the cherry flavor will be retained, and the cherries 
will not shrivel. 

FRENCH PICKLES. 

One peck green tomatoes, sliced, 6 large onions, sliced; sprinkle 
over them i cup salt ; let them stand over night ; in the morning 



4l6 PICKLES. 

drain and boil 15 minutes in 2 parts water and i part vinegar; drain 
again ; take 2 quarts vinegar, i pound sugar, i tablespoon each of 
cloves, cinnamon and allspice; boil together for 15 minutes and 
pour over the pickles. 

MIXED PICKLES. 

One quart raw cabbage chopped fine; i quart boiled beets 
chopped fine ; 2 cups sugar, i tablespoon salt, i teaspoon red pep- 
per, I cup grated horse-radish ; cover with cold vinegar and keep 
from the air. 

MIXED PICKLES, NO. 2. 

Three hundred small cucumbers, 4 green peppers sliced fine, 2 
large or 3 small heads cauliflower, 3 heads white cabbage sliced fine, 
9 large onions sliced, i large horse-radish, i quart green beans cut 
I inch long, i quart green tomatoes sliced ; put this mixture in a 
pretty strong brine 24 hours; drain 3 hours; then sprinkle in y^ 
pound each of black and white mustard seed, also i tablespoon 
black ground pepper ; let it come to a good boil in just vinegar 
enough to cover it, adding a little alum; drain again and when 
cold put in ]/2 pint ground mustard ; cover the whole with good 
cider vinegar; add turmeric enough to color if you like. 

PICKLED LEMONS. 

Take 8 thick-skinned lemons, ^ pound fine salt, 2 quarts vinegar, 
3^ ounce each of cloves, nutmeg, mace, and cayenne ; 2 ounces 
mustard seed ; i small onion. Put all this in a muslin bag, the 
whole to be put in a tight, covered jar. Set in a kettle of boiling 
water and let it remain till the lemons are tender. It is better to 
keep them three months before using. 

MANGOES. 

Get small green musk-melons or cantelopes. Cut a small square 
from the side of each one, and, with a teaspoon, scrape out all the 
seeds. Make a brine of i pint salt to i gallon water. Cover the 
mangoes with it while it boils. Let them stand 2 days ; then drain 



PICKLES. 417 

them, and stuff with the same mixture as is used for stuffed peppers. 
Pour boiling water over them, using in it a bit of alum. 

MANGOES, NO. 2. 

Take green melons and make a brine strong enough to bear up 
an egg; then pour it boiling hot on the melons, keeping them 
under the brine ; let them stand 5 or 6 days, slit them down on one 
side, take out all the seeds, scrape them well in the inside, and wash 
them clean; then take cloves, garlic, ginger, nutmeg and pepper; 
put all these proportionately into the melons, filling them up v/ith 
mustard seed ; then lay them in an earthen pot, and take i part 
mustard seed and 2 parts vinegar, enough to cover them, pouring 
it on scalding hot. Keep them closely covered. 

PEACH MANGOES. 

Take sound, ripe, free-stone peaches, rub off the fur, split them 
open, take out the pits; have ready some finely chopped tomatoes 
and cabbage, grated horse-radish and mustard seed ; fill the vacancy 
in the peach, then place them together and tie with a string ; place 
in a jar and fill up with hot spiced vinegar. 

PICKLED NASTURTIUMS. 

Soak for 3 days in strong salt and water ; then strain and pour 
boiling vinegar over them, omitting the spice. Vinegar for any^ 
pickle should never be allowed to boil over i minute. 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

Small silver-skinned onions ; remove outer skin so that each one is 
white and clean ; put them into brine that will float an egg for 3 
days; bring vinegar to a boiling point, add a little mace and whole 
red peppers and pour hot over the onions, well drained from the 
brine. 

PICKLED ONIONS, NO. 2. 

Peel the onions and let them lie in strong salt and water 9 days, 
changing the water each day; then put them into jars and pour 

27 



4l8 PICKLES. 

fresh salt and water on them, this time boiling hot ; when it is cold, 
take them out and put them on a hair sieve to drain, after which 
put them in wide-mouthed bottles and pour over them vinegar 
prepared in the following manner : Take white wine vinegar and 
boil it with i blade of mace, some salt and ginger in it ; when cool, 
pour over the onions. 

PICALILLI. 

One peck green tomatoes, i large cabbage, i dozen onions ; add 
^ pint salt ; after the above have been chopped fine let it stand 
over night ; in the morning drain off the brine and scald in weak 
vinegar; drain this off and stir in ground spices to suit the taste; 
add 6 red peppers and a little horse-radish root ; pack in a crock 
and cover with strong vinegar; a few small cucumbers put in whole 
are quite an addition. 

PICKLETTE. 

Four large, crisp cabbages chopped fine, i quart onions chopped 
fine, 2 quarts vinegar, or enough to cover the cabbage, 2 tablespoons 
each of ground mustard, black pepper, cinnamon, turmeric, celery 
seed, and i of allspice, pulverized alum and mace ; pack the onions 
and cabbage in alternate layers with a little salt between them ; let 
them stand until next day ; then scald the vinegar, sugar and spices 
together and pour over the cabbage and onions ; do this 3 mornings 
in succession ; on the fourth put all together over the fire and heat 
to a boil; let them boil 5 minutes; when cold pack in small jars; it 
is fit for use as soon as cold and will keep well. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

Get large bell peppers; cut around the stem, remove it, and 
take out all the seeds; for the stuffing use 2 quarts chopped cab- 
bage, I cup white mustard seed, 3 tablespoons celery seed, 2 table- 
spoons salt, y^ cup grated horse-radish ; fill each pepper with part of 
this mixture, and into each one put a small onion and a httle 
cucumber; tie the stem on again, put the peppers in a jar, and 
cover with cold vinegar. 



PICKLES. 419 

PICKLED TOMATOES. 
Let the tomatoes be thoroughly ripe, and let them lie in strong 
salt and water for 3 or 4 days, then put them down in layers in jars, 
mixing with them small onions and pieces of horse-radish, then pour 
on cold vinegar after having spiced it. Use plenty of spice, cover 
carefully, and let stand for a month before using. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 
Slice I peck tomatoes into a jar and sprinkle a little salt over 
each layer ; let them stand 24 hours, drain off the liquor ; put the 
tomatoes into a kettle with i teaspoon each of the following spices : 
Ground ginger, allspice, cloves, mace, cinnamon, i teaspoon 
scraped horse-radish, 12 small or 3 large red peppers, 3 onions, i cup 
brown sugar ; cover all with vinegar ; boil slowly till tender. 

TO KEEP TOMATOES WHOLE. 

Fill a large stone jar with ripe tomatoes, then add a few whole 
cloves and a little sugar ; cover them well with y^, cold vinegar and ^ 
water ; place a piece of flannel over the jar well down in the vinegar, 
then tie down with paper. In this way tomatoes can be kept i year. 
Should mildew collect on the flannel it will not hurt them in the 
least. 

GREEN TOMATO SOY. 

Two gallons of green tomatoes sliced without peeling ; slice also 
12 good sized onions ; 2 quarts vinegar, i quart sugar, 2 tablespoons 
each of salt, ground mustard, and ground black pepper, i tablespoon 
cloves and allspice. Mix all together and stew until tender, stirring 
often lest they should scorch. Put up in small glass jars. A good 
sauce for all kinds of meat or fish. 



SWEET PICKLES. 



SWEET PICKLES. 
To every 7 pounds of fruit allow 3^ pounds sugar and i pint 
cider vinegar, 2 ounces whole cloves, 2 of stick cinnamon. This is 



420 PICKLES. 

for peaches, pears, apples or musk melons. Peaches, pears and 
apples should be pared only, not divided. Then in each stick 2 
whole cloves. The cinnamon should be boiled in the vinegar. Put 
the prepared fruit into a jar and pour the vinegar, scalding hot. 
over it. Repeat this for 3 mornings. These sweet pickles will be 
found delicious, and will keep any length of time. The melons 
should be cut in strips as if to serve fresh on the table, and should 
not be too ripe. Simmer them 30 minutes slowly in the prepared 
vinegar, and they will need no further attention except to keep 
them closely covered, and they will keep good i year. 

SWEET APPLE PICKLE. 

Pickled sweet apples can be made by taking 3 pounds sugar, 2 
quarts vinegar, }^ ounce cinnamon, ^ ounce cloves ; pare the 
apples, leaving them whole ; boil them in part of the vinegar and 
sugar until you can put a fork through them ; take them out ; heat 
the remainder of the vinegar and sugar and pour over them. Be 
careful not to boil them too long or they will break. 

DRIED-APPLE PICKLES — VERY NICE. 

Two pounds dried-apples, i quart good vinegar, i cup sugar, a 
little spice and cloves. Soak the apples all night, in the morning 
put water enough on them to cook until tender. Boil vinegar, 
sugar and spices, then put in the apples, boil once and you have a 
good dish for dinner sauce. 

PICKLED CRAB APPLES. 

Steam the apples, after piercing them with a fork. Prepare a 
syrup of I pint good vinegar, i pound brown sugar (more, if liked), 
and I scant tablespoon of each kind of spice. Boil 10 minutes and 
pour over the apples after they have been placed in the jar. 

PICKLED BLACKBERRIES. 

Three quarts blackberries, i quart vinegar, i quart sugar; no 
spice is required ; put all together at the same time into your kettle 
and boil 10 or 15 minutes. After standing a few weeks they are 
very nice. 



PICKLES. 421 

SWEET CAULIFLOWER PICKLES. 

To 12 heads cauliflower, 5 quarts vinegar, 5 cups brown sugar, 6 
eggs, I bottle French mustard, 2 tablespoons ginger, a few garlics, 2 
green peppers, ^ teaspoon cayenne, butter size of an egg, 1 ounce 
pulverized turmeric. Beat well together the eggs, sugar, mustard, 
ginger and turmeric, then boil in vinegar, with garlic and peppers, 
10 minutes. Boil cauliflower in salt water until tender, then place 
carefully in jar, and pour over the boiling hot mixture. 

RIPE CUCUMBER PICKLE. 

Take large yellow cucumbers, pare them, take out the cores, and 
soak in salt water 2 days; then take them out of the brine, pour 
over them boiling water, and let them stand over night ; pour off 
this water, and they are ready for the pickle, which prepare thus : 
For each quart sharp vinegar, take i pint hot water, 2 large cups 
sugar, and i tablespoon each of the following spices: cinnamon, 
cloves, allspice, black pepper, mace or nutmeg; add a handful of 
raisins or ripe grapes ; scald all together and boil until the cucum- 
bers are easily penetrated with a fork; use as little of the vinegar 
as possible to boil them in, and pour the rest over them when done. 

PICKLED GRAPES. 

Fill a jar with alternate layers of sugar and bunches of nice 
grapes, not too ripe; fill ^ full of good, cold vinegar and cover 
tightly. 

PICKLED GRAPES, NO. 2. 

When grapes are not quite ripe, but dark colored, pick from the 
stem and wash ; put in bottles ; in a dish put sugar and vinegar, 
and boil a few minutes; add spices to taste; boil a few minutes, 
pour over the grapes and seal up the bottles. 

SWEET MELONS. 

Use ripe musk melons; pare them, cut them in slices and remove 
the seeds; to 5 pounds melon allow 2^ pounds sugar and i quart 
vinegar; the vinegar and sugar must be heated to the boiling point 



423 • PICKLES. 

and poured over the fruit 6 times, or once on each of 6 successive 
days ; in the last boiling of the syrup add )^ ounce stick cinnamon, 
^ ounce white ginger root, and a few cloves ; when the syrup boils, 
put in the melon, and boil lo minutes; then put in jars; skim the 
syrup clear and pour it over the melon. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

Eight pounds peaches after they are pared, 4 pounds sugar; 
make syrup of the sugar and a little water; put in peaches, a few 
at a time, and cook through but not too soft ; skim them out care- 
fully and put into a jar ; when all are cooked, boil the syrup down 
thick, then add i pint cider vinegar, i teaspoon cloves, 2 teaspoons 
cinnamon, i teaspoon mace, and pour hot over the peaches. Cover 
up the jar closely. If put into cans they will keep any length of 
time. 

PICKLED PLUMS. 

For 8 pounds fruit take 4 pounds sugar, 2 quarts vinegar, 
I ounce cinnamon, and i ounce cloves; boil the vinegar, sugar, 
and spices together; skim, and pour scalding hot over your fruit; 
let it set 3 days, pour off the syrup, scald and skim and pour over 
again, and continue this process every 3 days till you have scalded 
it 3 times, after which it will be fit for use. Plums prepared in this 
way we think superior to the old method of preserving with sugar 
alone. 

STRAWBERRY PICKLES. 

Pickles made of the large garden strawberries are a novelty, and 
are highly esteemed. Put the fresh berries in a jar, a layer in the 
bottom first with cinnamon and cloves scattered over them, then 
put another layer of berries and continue in this way until the jar 
is nearly full; then pour over them a syrup made of 2 cups vinegar 
and about 3 cups sugar ; heat this to the boiling point, and then 
pour it into the jar. Let it stand from one morning until the next ; 
then set the jar into a kettle of water and let them boil slowly for 
nearly I hour. If you are careful to let them cook slowly, and do 



PICKLES. 423 

not break them when stirring, the berries will keep their shape per- 
fectly. If canned they are sure to be fresh and delicious when 
wanted. 

PICKLED RAISINS. 

Leave 2 pounds raisins on stem, add i pint vinegar and Yz pound 
sugar; simmer over a slow fire J-i hour. 

SWEET TOMATO PICKLE. 

One peck green tomatoes sliced. Sprinkle with i cup salt, and 
let them stand over night. In the morning drain. Add to the 
tomatoes 2 quarts water and i quart vinegar. Boil 15 minutes; 
then drain again, and throw this vinegar and water away. Add to 
the pickle 2 pounds sugar, 2 quarts vinegar, 2 tablespoons each of 
clove, allspice, ginger, mustard and cinnamon, and i teaspoon 
cayenne, and boil 15 minutes. 

RIPE TOMATO PICKLES. 

To 7 pounds ripe tomatoes add 3 pounds sugar, i quart 
vinegar; boil them together 15 minutes, skim out the tomatoes and 
boil the syrup a few minutes longer. Spice to suit the taste with 
cloves and cinnamon. 

PICKLED WATERMELON. 

Take the green part of the rind of the melon, pare and cut in 
small pieces. To i quart vinegar add 2 pounds sugar, I ounce 
cassia buds ; in this boil the rind until clear and tender. 



VINEGAR. 



CHEAP VINEGAR. 

Have some good cider vinegar in a keg to start with. Save all 
skimmings, currants, pieces of fruit, etc., left after making jelly ; 
put all together in a stone jar, cover with soft v/ater that has been 



424 PICKLES. 

boiled, and let stand several days. Also save apple peelings, boil 
them up well in a porcelain kettle, and drain off this liquid into 
another stone jar; now drain the first jar into the second, and add 
any remnants of jelly or fruit syrups, the rinsings of the molasses 
jug, etc., and then if not sweet enough put in some brown sugar or 
molasses ; pour the clear part of the liquid into the vinegar keg and 
keep in a warm place. Give the air free access, but keep out the 
dust with a thin cloth. 

CLOVER VINEGAR. 

Put I large bowl of molasses in a crock, and pour over it 9 bowls 
boiling rain-water; let stand until milk-warm, put in 2 quarts clover 
blossoms, and 2 cups baker's yeast ; let this stand 2 weeks, and 
strain through a towel. Nothing will mold in it. 

HOME-MADE TABLE VINEGAR. 

Put in an open cask 4 gallons warm rain-water, i gallon common 
molasses, and 2 quarts yeast ; cover the top with thin muslin and 
leave it in the sun, covering it up at night and when it rains. In 
3 or 4 weeks it will be good vinegar. If cider can be used in place 
of rain-water the vinegar will make much sooner — will not take 
over a week to make very sharp vinegar. Excellent for pickling 
purposes. 

MINT VINEGAR. 

Put into a wide-mouthed bottle enough fresh, clean peppermint, 
spearmint, or garden parsley leaves to fill it loosely ; fill up with 
good vinegar, stop closely, leave on for 2 or 3 weeks, pour off into 
another bottle, and keep well corked for use. This is excellent for 
cold meats, soups and bread-dressings for roasts ; when mints can 
not be obtained, celery seed is used in the same way. 

ORANGE VINEGAR. 

Peel 5 or 6 fresh oranges, press the juice out in a tall glass and 
let it stand covered to clarify. Free the rinds from the white part, 
pound them to a paste and pour i gallon of good vinegar over it. 



PICKLES. 425 

Let it stand a few days, then pour off the vinegar, mix it with the 
clear juice, filter and bottle. 

SPICED VINEGAR, NO. I. 

Bruise in a mortar 2 ounces black pepper, i ounce ginger, i/^ 
ounce allspice, and i ounce salt. If a hotter pickle is desired, add 
^ drachm cayenne, or a few capsicums. For walnuts add also i 
ounce shallots ; put these in a stone jar, with i quart vinegar, and 
cover them with a bladder wet with the pickle, and over this a 
piece of leather ; set the jar near the fire for 3 days, shaking it 3 
times a day, then pour it on the walnuts or other vegetables. For 
walnuts it is used hot, for cabbage, etc., cold. 

SPICED VINEGAR, NO. 2. 

Put 3 pounds sugar in a 3-gallon jar with a small mouth ; mix 
2 ounces each of mace, cloves, pepper, allspice, tumeric, celery seed, 
white ginger in small bits, and ground mustard ; put in 6 small bags 
made of thin but strong muslin, lay in jar, fill with best cider vine- 
gar, and use it in making pickles and sauces. 

TARRAGON VINEGAR. 

Gather the tarragon just before it blossoms, strip it from the 
larger stalks and put it into small stone jars or wide-necked bottles ; 
and in doing this twist the branches, bruising the leaves ; pour over 
it vinegar enough to cover; let it stand 2 months or longer, pour 
off, strain, and put into small dry bottles, cork well and use as sauce 
for meats. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 



SALADS. 



Fresh salads ought not to lie long in water, the withered only 
long enough to crisp them. The outside leaves are thrown away, 
the inner ones parted, well rinsed and examined, and if necessary, 
plunged into salt and water for a few minutes, which will quickly 
free the leaves of any insect that may cling to them. They may 
then be thrown into a colander or salad basket to drain and thence 
into a napkin held by its 4 corners, and shaken lightly until it 
absorbs the water hanging about the leaves. Handle the salad as 
little as possible in cutting. Do not mix it with dressing until the 
moment of serving, and then it is usual to put the liquids at the 
bottom of the bowl and stir it up just before serving. Salads of 
fish, meat or potatoes are better made ^ hour before they are 
used. Let chives or onions be handled apart when used, not mixed 
in, as so many object to the flavor. 

Melted butter may be used where oil is mentioned. 

ANCHOVY SALAD. 

Wash 6 anchovies in water, remove the bones and the insides, 
and also the heads, fins, and tails. Put them on a dish with 2 large 
heads lettuce, cut small, ^ dozen young onions, i saltspoon 
chopped parsley, and i sliced lemon ; pour over them the juice of i 
lemon mixed with salad oil, and send to table. 

APPLE AND CELERY SALAD. 
Minced apple, 2 cups; minced celery, 2 cups. Beat up the 
yolk of I egg and add enough salad oil or melted butter to make a 
thick cream. Thin with sharp vinegar and season with salt and 
pepper. Very nice. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 
Boil the asparagus, and take it from the hot water and plunge 
it into cold water to give it firmness ; drain off the water, and send 
to table with sauce Vinaigrette or plain French dj^essing. 

426 




A NEGLECTED SALAD. 



SALADS. 427 

SALAD OF BEANS. 

Put in a bowl 3 pints cold boiled string beans, cut in pieces 
about I inch long, and i onion cut in very thin slices; add 2 teas- 
poons chopped parsley, 6 tablespoons oil, 2 of vinegar, and a pinch 
of salt and pepper. Mix all well together and serve. 

BAKED-BEAN SALAD. 

Cold, baked or boiled beans make a very nice salad if dressed 
with pepper, salt, a little oil, 3 tablespoons good vinegar and i of 
sugar to I pint beans. 

BEET SALAD. 

Place boiled beets in steamer over kettle of water until warm, 
then slice and cover with following dressing : 2-quart bowl sliced 
beets, 3 tablespoons melted butter, salt, pepper and mustard to 
season, rather sharply, and 7 tablespoons vinegar ; cover bowl while 
warm and place in cellar or refrigerator, cool quickly as possible ; a 
very nice salad. 

BEET SALAD, NO. 2. 

This salad is particularly good when both beets and potatoes 
are new and tender; boil in salted water equal quantities of both, 
and set them on ice to get cold; just before serving cut them into 
thin but regular slices, dress with pepper, salt, oil and vinegar, and 
garnish with water-cress. 

BANANA SALAD. 

Cut fine bananas in slices, lengthwise, as thick as a dollar, arrange 
them on a dish so that the ends of the long semi-circle slices meet 
and form a hollow center. Pour over them i gill sherry made very 
sweet with sugar, and into which you have put i teaspoon lemon- 
juice ; let them get ice cold ; then fill the center with whipped 
cream piled high ; this is delicious. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

To I dish of finely sliced cabbage, add 4 teaspoons celery seed, 
or I bunch celery finely shredded ; put in a bowl, the yolks of 2 eggs. 



428 SALADS. 

I teaspoon sugar, i teaspoon butter, i teaspoon pepper, i tea- 
spoon salt, I teaspoon made mustard, Yz cup vinegar ; set the 
bowl into hot water, and stir carefully until it begins to thicken ; 
let it get cold, and pour over the cabbage. If it does not moisten 
it enough, put in a little more vinegar. 

RED CABBAGE AND CELERY SALAD. 

Cook the cabbage for 15 to 20 minutes in salted water; cut it 
and the celery fine, mix them well together ; serve with salad 
dressing made of 6 tablespoons oil, 2 of vinegar, i teaspoon mus- 
tard, and a pinch each of salt and pepper. 

CAULIFLOWER SALAD. 

This is an excellent entree. Boil the cauliflower in salted w^ater; 
when tender, which will be in about ^ hour, drain every drop of 
water from it ; let it become cold, then arrange it in a salad bowl 
with a rich mayonnaise dressing poured over it : it may be garnished 
with small rings of pickled beets, or with slices of pickled cucum- 
bers ; and, by the way, it is a good plan to pickle a jar of large 
cucumbers, so that you can have them to use as a garnish, and to 
chop and add to the dressing served with boiled fish. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

A refreshing variety of salad, to be eaten along with cold meat, 
is made of cucumbers and onions. The cucumbers are to be pared 
and then sliced crosswise as thinly as possible ; i or 2 large onions 
are sliced in the same manner and mixed with the sliced cucumbers 
and the whole put into salt water ; this, in a short time, extracts 
the juice ; now drain them and dish, they are then to be well pep- 
pered and half covered with good wine or cider vinegar, a little 
olive oil may be added if liked. This salad also makes a pretty 
dish served upon curly lettuce leaves. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Cut the white stalks of 3 bunches celery into pieces ^ inch 
long; to each pint allow ^ pint mayonnaise dressing. Dust the 



SALADS. 429 

celery lightly with salt and pepper. Mix it with the dressing, heap 
it on a cold plate, garnish with celery leaves, and serve immediately. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Cut up a cold boiled chicken into neat strips or pieces, and mix 
with it an equal quantity of celery. Cut the celery stalks into 
inch pieces, and cut each piece into thin strips ; mix them together 
with a few spoons mayonnaise ; arrange neatly upon a dish 
garnished with lettuce, parsley, or hard-boiled egg, pour the 
remainder of the sauce over the meat, and serve. 

CHICKEN SALAD, NO. 2. 

Boil I chicken until very tender ; when cold chop it fine. Chop 
I head cabbage and i large handful cucumber pickles very fine. 
Boil I dozen eggs hard ; mash the yolks only with the chicken, i 
tablespoon celery seed, i of black pepper, i teaspoon ground mus- 
tard, I tablespoon salt and 2 of butter, }4 teacup strong vinegar ; 
or the chicken and cabbage may be served with any salad dressing. 

CRAB SALAD. 

Boil hard-shell crabs 25 minutes, drain and let them cool grad- 
ually, remove the upper shell and tail, break the remainder apart 
and pick out the meat carefully ; the large claws should not be 
forgotten, for they contain a dainty morsel, and the creamy fat 
attached to the upper shell should not be overlooked. Line a salad- 
bowl with the small white leaves of lettuce, add the crab meat, 
pour over it a mayonnaise garnish with crab claws, hard-boiled eggs, 
and little mounds of cress leaves, which may be mixed with the 
salad when served. 

DANDELION SALAD. 

The dandelion makes one of the most wholesome and refreshing 
of early spring salads and is a great favorite with those who have 
learned its merit. After very carefully washing the plants, i pint 
should be placed in the salad-bowl with an equal quantity of water 



430 SALADS. 

cresses, 3 green onions, sliced, i teaspoon salt and a liberal supply 
of oil or cream dressing. 

EGG SALAD. 

Boil I dozen eggs hard, peel and cut in halves, take out the 
yolks, mash with butter and i teacup minced ham. Add i teaspoon 
each of salt, sugar and celery seed, with 4 tablespoons vinegar. Mix 
all together, and fill the whites of the egg with the mixture. 

EGG SALAD, NO. 2. 

Put the crisp leaves of i head lettuce in a salad-bowl, and add 4 
sliced hard-boiled eggs ; sprinkle i dozen minced capers over the 
whole, then pour over it the following dressing: Three tablespoons 
melted butter, i teaspoon pepper, salt to season, i teaspoon made 
mustard, }4 teacup sharp vinegar. Mix well through salad and 
serve at once. 

FRUIT SALAD. 
Prepare a dressing as follows: Beat the yolks of four eggs till 
thick and light-colored; then beat in gradually i cup powdered 
sugar and ^ teaspoonful salt. Beat till sugar is* dissolved. Add 
the juice ,of 2 lemons, and beat again. Peel and slice thin 6 
bananas and 4 oranges, taking seeds from oranges. Put into a 
deep dish a layer of bananas, then some dressing, then a layer of 
oranges; then again a layer of each with bananas on top. Pour 
remainder of dressing over, and set on ice. Serve very cold. 

FISH SALAD. 

Take any firm cold fish, remove the skin, and pick out the bones, 
mince fine; add pepper, salt, French mustard, lemon-juice and 
olive oil : mix well together. Just before serving pour over a Httle 
Worcestershire sauce. Oysters or shrimps may be added to the 
other fish. 

GAME SALAD. 

Take the remains of cold cooked game, pick up fine, and cover 
with a dressing made as follows : Take the yolk of i hard-boiled 
egg and mix it smoothly with i tablespoon salad oil ; stir in a little 



SALADS. 431 

salt and pepper, a little made mustard, i dessertspoon walnut cat- 
sup, and 3 dessertspoons vinegar. 

GERMAN SALAD. 

Boil I or i}4 dozen small-sized white potatoes until they are soft 
enough to stick a fork in (that is, not quite soft enough to put on 
the table). Pour off the water, uncover so they will not steam, stand 
aside for 15 minutes to cool. Cut an onion in very fine slices, i 
piece bacon (smoked flitch as we call it), cut it in small dice and 
fry a crisp brown. When your potatoes are cool, peel and cut in 
thin slices, pepper and salt to taste ; mix in your onion, add your 
fried bacon and the fat that is left in the pan ; then finally add 
about 2 tablespoons vinegar. Garnish with green salad. Salad oil 
may be used instead of bacon. 

HAM SALAD. 

One pound boiled ham, chopped fine, ^ dozen small pickles, 
chopped fine, add a little chopped celery and serve with a dressing 
as for chicken salad. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Take the yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs, and salt and mustard to 
taste; mash it fine; make a paste by adding i dessertspoon olive 
oil or melted butter ; mix thoroughly, and then dilute by adding 
gradually i cup vinegar, and pour over the lettuce. Garnish by 
slicing another egg and laying over the lettuce. This is sufficient 
for a moderate-sized dish of lettuce. 

LETTUCE SALAD, NO. 2. 

Wash, dry, and shred nice leaves of lettuce, and put them in a 
salad bowl ; cut 4 ounces bacon into dice ; fry these with a finely- 
minced onion, and do not allow them to burn, add a little salt, if 
needed, ^ teaspoon pepper, i tablespoon vinegar; pour all over 
the lettuce, and mix thoroughly ; serve immediately. 



432 SALADS. 

LETTUCE AND TOMATO SALAD. 

Select fresh, crisp lettuce, wash well, and lay in cold water for 
^ hour; shake the water from the lettuce, and place on a platter- 
slice in thin slices selected tomatoes, and lay them on the lettuce; 
place a piece of ice on top, and serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Prepare a sauce with the coral of a fine, new lobster, boiled 
fresh for about yi hour ; pound and rub it smooth, and mix very 
gradually with a dressing made from the yolks of 2 hard-boiled 
eggs, I tablespoon made mustard, 3 of salad oil, 2 of vinegar, i of 
white powdered sugar, i small teaspoon salt, as much black pepper, 
a pinch of cayenne, and 2 fresh yolks of eggs ; next fill your salad 
bowl with some shred lettuce — the better part of 2 — leaving the 
small curled center to garnish your dish with; mingle with this the 
flesh of your lobster, torn, broken or cut into bits, seasoned with 
salt and pepper, and a smaU portion of the dressing; pour over the 
whole the rest of the dressing, put your lettuce-hearts down the 
center, and arrange upon the sides slices of hard-boiled eggs. 

LOBSTER SALAD, NO. 2. 

One can of lobster, chopped fine, 6 hard-boiled eggs, chopped 
fine, I cup vinegar, i tablespoon mustard, ^ teaspoon pepper, 
small piece of butter, ^ cup cream, 2 raw eggs, well beaten ; heat 
until boiling; mix with lobster and eggs, and lay on lettuce leaves. 

ORANGE SALAD. 

Orange salad is a delicious accompaniment for game, broiled or 
roasted poultry, when made as follows: Slice tart, juicy oranges, 
removing the seeds, arranging the slices on a salad dish and dress- 
ing them with salad oil, a squeeze of lemon-juice, salt and a dust 
of cayenne. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Drain the liquor from a quart of fresh oysters. Put them in hot 
vinegar enough to cover them placed over the fire ; let them remain 



SALADS. 



433 



until plump, but not cooked, then drop them immediately in cold 
water ; drain off, and mix with them 2 pickled cucumbers cut fine, 
also I quart celery cut in dice pieces, some seasoning of salt and 
pepper; mix all well together, tossing up with a silver fork; pour 
over the whole a mayonnaise dressing; garnish with celery tips 
and slices of hard-boiled eggs arranged tastefully. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Rub a dish with a shallot, arrange upon it some cold boiled 
potatoes cut in slices; beat together 3 parts of oil and i part, more 
or less, according to the strength, of vinegar, with pepper and salt 
to taste. Pour this over the potatoes, and strew over all a small 
quantity of any of the following: Powdered sweet herbs, parsley, 
chervil, Spanish onions, boiled beets, capers, or a combination of 
them all, finely chopped. 

POTATO SALAD, NO. 2. 

Take some cold boiled potatoes and slice very thin ; add to 
them 3 hard-boiled eggs, also sliced thin ; chop i small, fresh onion. 
In a glass bowl or salad dish put a layer of potatoes, then a layer 
of eggs, and sprinkle over them a little chopped onion, salt and 
pepper. For dressing, take the yolk of i raw egg and stir into it 
^ teaspoon made mustard ; beat into it, drop by drop, 3 table-. 
spoons sweet cream; add i tablespoon strong vinegar and the white 
of the egg beaten to a stiff froth. ' If needed for supper make at 
noontime. Flakes of cold boiled salmon, cod, or halibut, sub-- 
stituted for the eggs, or added with them, will improve the salad. 

SALMON SALAD. 

One can of fresh salmon, four bunches of celery ; chop as for 
chicken salad; mix with the salmon, and pour salad dressing over 
it. Garnish with lettuce or celery tops. 

SARDINE SALAD. 

Arrange r quart of any kind of cooked fish on a bed of crisp 
lettuce ; spHt 6 sardines, and if there are any bones remove 
28 



4.34 SALADS. 

them. Cover the fish with the sardine dressing ; over this put the 
sardines, having the ends meet in the centre of the dish. At the 
base of the dish make a wreath of thin sHces of lemon. Garnish 
with parsley or lettuce and serve immediately. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

Open a can of shrimps ; remove any bits of shell ; mix them 
with 4 heads celery washed, scraped and cut in small pieces. When 
mixed together add mayonnaise dressing which should be made 
several hours before using. Put the whole into a fancy dish and 
garnish with celery leaves. 

SHRIMP SALAD, NO. 2. 

Make a bed of fresh lettuce, cut fine with a knife. Pour over 
this a mayonnaise dressing, being careful to leave a fringe of the 
fresh lettuce about the edge of the dish and a clear place in the 
center. Distribute the peeled shrimps over the wide ring covered 
by the mayonnaise, building up a little tuft of lettuce in the center. 

SUMMER SALAD. 

Three heads lettuce, 2 teaspoons green mustard leaves, i hand- 
ful water-cresses, 5 tender radishes, i cucumber, 3 hard-boiled eggs, 
2 teaspoons white sugar, i teaspoon each of salt, pepper and made 
mustard, i cup vinegar, ^ cup oil ; mix all well together, and serve 
with a lump of ice in the middle. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Peel medium-sized ripe tomatoes, and cut them in slices; set 
them in the refrigerator, or on ice, where they will get thoroughly 
cold ; cover with either of the mayonnaise dressings when ready to 
serve — the cream mayonnaise is very delicious for tomatoes; if 
preferred, the tomatoes may be served whole with i spoon dressing 
in each ; both tomatoes and dressing should stand on the ice until 
the moment of serving. 



SALADS. 435 

TOMATO SALAD WITH WATER-CRESS. 

Take equal parts of peeled sliced tomatoes and water-cress, and 
dress each in a separate bowl with salt, white pepper, a dash of 
cayenne, oil and vinegar; let the dressing reach thoroughly all 
the vegetables, and after each bowl has stood for 5 minutes mix 
them well together and let the combination stand for a few 
moments before serving. The tomatoes being rather flat and the 
cress sharp, each supplies what the other needs. If pains are taken 
the result is delicious. 

VEAL SALAD. 

A bit of cold roast veal makes a very nice salad prepared after 
the following manner: Remove bones, fat and gristle; cut cross- 
wise of the grain of the meat in the thinnest shavings possible, i 
inch long, and ^ inch wnde; to i pint of the shaved meat add 2 
hard-boiled eggs, chopped, 3 or 4 crisp, tender stalks celery cut in 
small pieces, 2 small heads lettuce, finely shred, and pepper and 
salt to taste. Lamb may be used in the place of the veal, if pre- 
ferred, or more convenient. Serve with mayonnaise or any good 
salad dressing. 

WATER-CRESS SALAD. 

Gather the water-cress when young, cleanse it thoroughly in salt 
and water, and serve as fresh as possible ; place it in a bowl, either 
alone or mixed with other salad plants, and toss in lightly a simple 
salad sauce ; when served at breakfast, water-cress is best sent to 
the table as it is, fresh and crisp. 



SALAD DRESSINGS. 



Salad dressing to keep for several weeks is a great convenience, 
as lamb salad or veal cutlet salad, or a th'inly sliced ham mayon- 
naise, are very quickly and conveniently served for luncheon when 
you have the cold meat, roast or boiled, in the house, and the may- 
onnaise ready in a jar; beat the yolk of i raw egg into a foam, 



436 SALADS. 

adding a few drops at a time of pure sweet oil, until nearly ^ pint 
is used, beating together until perfectly amalgamated ; mix it in a 
large bowl, with i teaspoon ground mustard, i of salt, and ^ of 
vinegar, and beat all into a thick, creamy butter ; flavor it with 
more vinegar or lemon-juice, and cover it very closely; the quantity 
can be doubled for future use, as it will keep for weeks in a cool 
place. 

BACON DRESSING. 

Cut y2 pound bacon-fat into slices, then into very small pieces, 
aud {ry them until the oil extracted is a light-brown ; remove the pan 
from the fire, add the juice of i lemon, i wineglass strong 
vinegar, i saltspoon pepper, and pour it over the salad with the 
pieces of bacon. A very nice dressing when you cannot get oil, etc» 

PLAIN FRENCH DRESSING. 

A plain French dressing is made of salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, 
and nothing else; 3 tablespoons oil to i of vinegar, i heaping salt- 
spoon salt, I even saltspoon pepper, mixed with a little cayenne. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

One tablespoon mustard, i of sugar, i-io teaspoon cayenne, i 
teaspoon salt, the yolks of 3 uncooked eggs, the juice of ^ lemon, 
y^ cup vinegar, i pint oil, and i cup whipped cream ; beat the yolks 
and dry ingredients, until they are very light and thick, with either 
a silver or wooden spoon, or better still, with a Dover beater of 
second size ; the bowl in which the dressing is made should be set 
in a pan of ice-water during the beating; add a few drops of 
oil at a time, until the dressing becomes very thick and rather 
hard ; after it has reached this stage, the oil can be added more 
rapidly; when it gets so thick that the beater turns hard, add a 
little vinegar : when the 4ast of the oil and vinegar has been added, 
it should be very thick; now add the lemon-juice and whipped 
cream, and place on ice for a few hours, unless you are ready to use 
it; the cream may be omitted without injury. 



SALADS. 437 

RED MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Lobster " coral " is pounded to a powder, rubbed through a 
sieve, and mixed with mayonnaise dressing ; this gives a dressing 
of a bright color. Or, the juice from boiled beets can be used 
instead of "coral." 

GREEN MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Mix enough spinach green with mayonnaise sauce to give it a 
bright green color ; a little finely chopped parsley can be added. 

ASPIC MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Melt, but heat only slightly, i cup aspic jelly ; or, i cup con- 
somme will answer, if it is well jellied ; put in a bowl and place in 
a basin of ice-water; have ready the juice of }^ lemon, i cup salad 
oil, ^ cup vinegar, i tablespoon sugar, i scant tablespoon mustard, 
I teaspoon salt, i-io teaspoon cayenne ; mix the dry ingredients 
with the vinegar; beat the jelly with a whisk, and as soon as it 
begins to thicken add the oil and vinegar, a little at a time. Add 
the lemon-juice the last thing; you must beat all the time after 
the bowl is placed in the ice-water. This gives a whiter dressing 
than that made with the yolks of eggs. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs rubbed very fine and smooth, i tea- 
spoon English mustard, i of salt, the yolks of 2 raw eggs beaten 
into the other, i dessertspoon fine sugar ; add very fresh sweet oil 
poured in by very small quantities, and beaten as long as the mix- 
ture continues to thicken, then add vinegar till as thin as desired ; 
if not hot enough with mustard, add a little cayenne pepper. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

Two eggs, 3 tablespoons vinegar, i of cream, i teaspoon sugar, 
l^ teaspoon salt, % teaspoon mustard ; beat the 2 eggs well ; add the 
sugar, salt and mustard, then the vinegar and the cream ; place 



438 SALADS. 

the bowl in a basin of boiling water, and stir until about the thick- 
ness of rich cream ; if the bowl is thick and the water boils all the 
time, it will take about 5 minutes ; cool, and use as needed. 

SOUR CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

One cup sour cream, i teaspoon salt, a speck of cayenne, i table- 
spoon lemon-juice, 3 of vinegar, i teaspoon sugar; mix all together 
thoroughly. This is best for vegetables. 

SARDINE DRESSING. 

Pound in a mortar, until perfectly smooth, the yolks of 4 hard- 
boiled eggs and 3 sardines, which have been freed of bones, if there 
were any ; add the mixture to any of the thick dressings, like the 
mayonnaise or the boiled. This dressing is for fish. 

SAUCE VINAIGRETTE. 

Mix a plain French dressing, and add to it % of an onion 
chopped fine, i teaspoon chopped parsley or pickle. 



CHAPTKR XIX. 



SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 



CURRANT CATSUP. 

Stew together 4 pounds ripe currants and i}i pounds sugar, i 
teaspoon salt, i tablespoon ground cinnamon, i teaspoon ground 
cloves, I of pepper and i pint cider vinegar; after the first two 
ingredients are stewed until thick, add the others, heat up once and 
bottle to use soon. More sugar Avill make " Spiced Currants," 
leaving out the pepper, and these will keep indefinitely if cooked 
till rich, after the vinegar is added. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

Take fair-sized cucumbers, such as are sliced for table use; peel 
them and grate; to 2 quarts grated cucumber put 8 onions chopped 
fine, 2 tablespoons black pepper, 3 tablespoons salt, i teaspoon 
cayenne pepper, i pound white sugar, and bottle, corking and seal- 
ing up tight ; cover with vinegar. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP, NO. 2. 

Take large cucumbers and large onions, an equal number of 
each ; pare and slice them thin, and put them in a sieve, throwing 
a handful of salt over them ; place the sieve over a pan and let 
them drain for 12 hours; then take the liquor, and for each dozen 
cucumbers used add 4 ounces anchovies, i pint white wine, i nut- 
meg grated, }( ounce mace and ^ ounce whole pepper ; let these 
ingredients boil up, then strain the liquor, and when cold bottle it 
and tie down tightly with bladder. 

GOOSEBERRY CATSUP. 

Ten pounds gooseberries, 6 pounds sugar, i quart vinegar, 3 
tablespoons cinnamon, i tablespoon each of allspice and cloves, 

439 



440 SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 

Mash the gooseberries thoroughly ; scald and put through the 
colander; add the sugar and spices, and boil 15 minutes, then add 
the vinegar; bottle immediately. Ripe grapes may be prepared in 
the same manner. 

GRAPE CATSUP. 

Five pounds grapes; boil and press through colander 2^ pounds 
sugar, I pint vinegar, i tablespoon each of cinnamon, cloves, all- 
spice and cayenne pepper, and j^ tablespoon salt. Boil until the 
catsup is rather thick. 

GREEN PEPPER CATSUP. 

This is very charming to those who like hot things. Fill a porce- 
lain-lined kettle of 10 pounds* capacity with green peppers — the hot 
"kind. Crack up a tablespoon each of mace, allspice and cloves 
and strew among the pepper, also slice up 4 large onions and 
mix with them. Now fill the kettle with good vinegar and set 
it on the stove to boil until the peppers will mash up readily. 
Lift the kettle off, cover it up and sit away for the contents 
to get cool. When cool, dip up peppers and vinegar with a teacup, 
pour into a seive, and rub them through with a spoon until 
nothing is left in the sieve but skins and seed. Throw those 
aside and repeat until all of the peppers have been rubbed through. 
The catsup is now complete. Bottle and cork tight. There is no 
necessity for sealing it. 

MUSHROOM CATSUP. 
See " MusJirooms" 

PLUM CATSUP. 

To 3 pounds fruit put i^ pounds sugar, i tablespoon cloves, i 
tablespoon cinnamon, i tablespoon pepper, a very little salt ; scald 
the plums and put them through a colander ; then add sugar and 
spices, and boil to the right consistency. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Take sound ripe tomatoes, slice and cook until done enough to 
put through a sieve; then to every gallon of the pulp and juice 



SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 44I 

add I cup chopped onion, ^^ cup black pepper, 4 pods red pepper, 
cut fine, ^'cup ground ginger and mustard mixed, i ounce celery 
seed, ^ cup mixed allspice, nutmeg and cinnamon, ^i teaspoon 
cloves, 2 cups sugar, sufficient salt to taste distinctly, and T pint 
strong cider vinegar ; put all together and cook 2 hours, or longer 
if not thick enough; it must not be thin or watery; bottle and 
seal while hot, and in a good cellar it will keep 2 years. 

TOMATO CATSUP, NO. 2. 

One gallon ripe tomatoes, 4 tablespoons salt, 2 tablespoons black 
pepper, ^ tablespoon mustard, i pint vinegar, ^ tablespoon 
each allspice and cloves, i cup sugar, 3 red peppers chopped fine, 
boil 3 hours and strain through a sieve, heat again and bottle. 

TOMATO CATSUP, NO. 3. 

Boil ripe tomatoes i hour ; strain through a sieve. To I quart 
of juice add i tablespoon cinnamon, i tablespoon black pepper, Yi 
tablespoon cayenne, i tablespoon ground mustard, ^ cup salt, 2 
onions chopped fine; boil 3 hours; then to each quart of juice add 
I pint cider vinegar and boil ^ hour longer; bottle hot. 

TOMATO CATSUP WITHOUT VINEGAR. 

Catsup made by the following recipe, provided the directions are 
followed exactly, will keep perfectly, and it certainly could not be 
nicer. Scald and peel i peck of perfectly ripe, sound tomatoes, and 
mash them up thoroughly as if for stewing; season with salt to 
your taste, i teaspoon finely pounded black pepper, ^ teaspoon 
cayenne pepper, i tablespoon each of cracked (not pounded) mace, 
allspice and cloves, 3 large onions thinly sliced and minced fine ; 
put it in a porcelain-lined kettle and set it on the stove to boil. 
When the tomatoes are thoroughly done, remove the kettle from 
the fire, and rub the catsup through a seive to get out the seeds and 
pieces of spice. 

Return it to the kettle when strained and let it boil until it is 
as thick as cream. Let it get perfectly cold and put it in clean, 
sweet bottles ; pint bottles are best. Fill the bottles to within ^ 



442 SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 

inch of the cork, pour into each i teaspoon salad oil, cork tight 
with new, sound corks, pressing the cork in until it refuses to go in 
further ; with a sharp knife cut it off level with the neck of the 
bottle and seal all over the cork and down for an inch on the neck 
of the bottle with canning wax put on boiling hot. Lay the bottles 
away on their sides in a cool, dry, dark place. 

WALNUT CATSUP. 

Take the fresn green shell from 200 walnuts when they are ripe 
enough to shell; lay them in a deep pan, sprinkling each layer with 
salt, let them stand a week, stirring them each day with a wooden 
spoon ; then strain through a sieve and measure the liquor into a 
sauce-pan and to each pint of liquor add % ounce bruised ginger, 
14; ounce mace, and a small piece of garlic. Boil these together 20 
minutes, set to cool and bottle for use. 



SAUCES. 



ASPARAGUS SAUCE. 

One dozen heads asparagus, 2 cups drawn butter, 2 eggs, the 
juice of % lemon, salt and white pepper; boil the tender heads in 
a very little salted water; drain and chop them; have ready i pint 
drawn butter, with 2 raw eggs beaten into it ; add the asparagus, 
and season, squeezing in the lemon-juice last; the butter must be 
hot, but do not cook after putting in the asparagus heads. This 
accompanies boiled fowls, stewed fillet of veal, or boiled mutton. 

ASPIC JELLY. 

One and one-half pints clear stock — beef, if for amber jelly, and 
chicken or veal for white ; ^ box gelatine, the white of i egg, ^ 
cup cold water, 2 cloves, i large slice onion, 12 pepper-corns, i 
stalk celery, salt; soak gelatine 2 hours in the cold water; then put 
on with other ingredients, the white of the egg being beaten with 
I spoon of the cold stock ; let come to a boil, and set back where 



SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 443 

it will just simmer for 20 minutes ; strain through a napkin, turn 
into a mold or shallow dish, and put away to harden; the jelly can 
be made with the bones of the turkey and chicken, by washing 
them, covering with cold water, and boiling down to about 3 pints, 
then straining and setting away to cool, and in the morning 
skimming off all the fat and turning off the clear stock; the bones 
may, instead, be used for soup. 

ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

An easy way of making anchovy sauce is to stir 2 or 3 tea- 
spoons prepared essence or paste of anchovy, which may be bought 
at your grocer's, into i pint melted butter; let the sauce boil a few 
minutes, and flavor with lemon-juice. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

As white stock is the foundation of this sauce, it must be pre- 
pared first ; boil down i old fowl, 2 or 3 pounds of the knuckles of 
veal and 3 of very lean ham, with 4 carrots, 2 onions, i blade mace, 
some white pepper-corns, 2 tablespoons salt and i ounce butter, in 4 
or 5 quarts water; cut up the fowl and veal, and put them with the 
ham to simmer in a small quantity of water till the juices are 
extracted; then put in the full quantity of water, about 3^ quarts, 
to the other ingredients; let the liquid simmer from 4 to 5 hours; 
skim and strain till clear, when it is ready for the bechamel ; mix i 
tablespoon arrow-root with i pint cream, and when well blended, let 
it simmer in a carefully-cleaned pan for 4 or 5 minutes; make i pint 
of the stock hot, and pour it into the cream; simmer slowly for 10 
minutes, or until it thickens; if too thick, add a little stock. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

Place I sliced onion and 6 pepper-corns in y^, pint milk, over 
boiling water, until onion is perfectly soft ; pour it on ^2 pint 
bread-crumbs without crust, and leave it covered for i hour ; beat 
it smooth, add pinch salt, and 2 tablespoons butter rubbed in a 
little flour ; add enough sweet cream or milk to make it the proper 



444 SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 

consistency, and boil a few minutes ; it must be thin enough to 
pour; serve with duck or any kind of game. 

BROWN SAUCE. 

Melt I tablespoon butter, stir until brown, thicken with a little 
flour, add ^ pint soup stock, and let boil; season with salt, pepper, 
^ teaspoon onion-juice, i tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, and the 
juice of I lemon ; may be served with a fricandeau and garnished 
with currant jelly. 

BUTTER SAUCE. 

Two tablespoons flour, ]/>, cup butter, and i pint boiling water; 
work the flour and butter together until light and creamy, and 
gradually add the boiling water ; stir constantly until it comes to a 
boil, but do not let it boil ; take from the fire and serve. A table- 
spoon of lemon-juice and a speck of cayenne may be added if you 
choose ; i tablespoon chopped parsley also gives an agreeable 
change. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Two tablespoons butter, i tablespoon flour ; mix well ; pour on 
boiling water until it thickens ; add i hard-boiled Q%^, chopped 
fine, and 2 tablespoons capers. 

CAULIFLOWER SAUCE. 

One small cauliflower, 3 tablespoons butter, cut in bits and 
rolled in flour, i onion, i small head celery, mace, pepper and salt, I 
cup water, i cup milk or cream ; boil the cauliflower in 2 
waters, changing when half done, and throwing away the first, 
reserve i teacup of the last ; take out the cauliflower, drain and 
mince ; cook in another sauce-pan the onion and celery, mincing 
them when tender ; heat the reserved cup of water again in a sauce- 
pan and add the milk ; when warm put in the cauliflower and onion, 
the butter and seasoning, coating the butter thickly with flour, boil 
until it thickens ; good with corned beef or mutton. 



SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 445 

CELERY SAUCE. 
Put 2 ounces butter into a sauce-pan, melt it, and add 2 heads 
celery cut into inch pieces ; stir the celery in the pan till it is 
quite tender ; add salt and pepper, with a little mace ; mix i table- 
spoon flour in i cup stock and simmer ^ hour ; i cup of cream 
may be used instead of stock. 

CHILI SAUCE. 
Boil 24 ripe tomatoes, 3 small green peppers, or ^ teaspoon 
cayenne, i onion cut fine, ^ cup sugar; when thick, add 2 cups 
vinegar ; strain the whole, set back on the fire and add i tablespoon 
salt, and i teaspoon each of ginger, allspice, cloves and cinnamon ; 
boil 5 minutes; seal in glass bottles. 

CHILI SAUCE, NO. 2. 

Twelve large ripe tomatoes, 4 small green peppers, 2 large 
onions, 2 teaspoons salt, 4 tablespoons brown sugar, 3 cups vinegar, 
I teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, and ginger. Chop 
all fine and cook until very thick. 

CREAM SAUCE. 
Heat I tablespoon butter in a skillet, add i teaspoon flour, and 
stir until perfectly smooth, then add gradually i cup cold milk, let 
boil up once, season to taste with salt and pepper, and serve. This 
is very nice for vegetables, omelets, fish or sweetbreads. 

CUCUMBER SAUCE. 
Take 3 young cucumbers, slice them rather thickly, and fry 
them in a little butter till they are lightly browned ; dredge them 
with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and simmer them till tender 
in as much good brown gravy as will cover them. White sauce or 
melted butter may be substituted for the gravy if these are more 
suitable to the dish with which the cucumber sauce is to be served. 
Time, about ^ hour to simmer the cucumbers. 

GRATED CUCUMBERS. 
Pare and halve full grown cucumbers, take out the seeds and 
grate the cucumber, straining and pressing the pulp until much of 



446 SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 

the water is exhausted, but not quite all, season highly with pepper 
and salt, mix thoroughly with vinegar and put up in small bottles, 
filled to the brim, and containing just enough to use at one time; 
seal the corks. When unsealed the fragrance is that of frtshly cut 
cucumbers. 

CHUTNEE. 

On& and one-half pounds Demerara sugar, ^ pound salt, ^ 
pound small onions, i pound raisins, y2 pound mustard seed, ^ 
pound powdered ginger, i ounce garlic, 3 pints vinegar, y^ ounce 
cayenne, 16 large tart apples. Wash and dry the mustard seed ; 
shred and pound the onions and garlic ; peel, core, and boil the 
apples in the vinegar, and pass them through a colander; chop the 
raisins ; mix all the ingredients well together and place in air-tight 
bottles. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Pick the berries over carefully, rejecting all that are soft or 
injured ; stew in a granite or porcelain preserving-kettle, and, when 
nearly done, add sugar in the proportion of 2 cups to i quart ber- 
ries ; boil for 5 or 10 minutes longer. In this way you will have a 
nice, richly-colored jelly-sauce. 

CURRY POWDER. 

One of the finest condiments ever prepared, and this is one of 
the best recipes. Six ounces turmeric, 8 ounces coriander seed, 4 
ounces black pepper, 2 ounces fenugreek, ^ ounce cayenne pepper, 
2 ounces ginger, ^ ounce cummin seed, all ground fine and bottled 
for use. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Three ounces butter, beaten with i ounce flour; stir into it I 
pint boiling water ; salt and pepper; cook 15 minutes; pour into 
sauce-boat, having hard-boiled eggs, sliced or chopped, in it. 

EGG SAUCE, NO. 2. 

Take the yolks of 2 eggs, boiled hard ; mash them with i table- 
spoon mustard, a little pepper and salt, 3 tablespoons vinegar, and 



SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 447 

3 of salad oil. A tablespoon of catsup improves this for some. 
This sauce is very nice for boiled fish. 



FISH SAUCE. 

One-quarter pound fresh butter, i tablespoon finely-chopped 
parsley, a little salt and pepper, and the juice of 2 lemons; cream 
the butter ; mix all well together. 

FISH SAUCE, NO. 2. 

The yolks of 3 eggs, i teaspoon vinegar, ^ pound butter, a little 
salt ; stir over a slow fire until it thickens. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

For I pint: i tablespoon salt, same of butter and flour; put 
them in a sauce-pan and put over the fire, and stir until the butter 
is melted ; add gradually i pint hot water, about ^ cup at a time, 
and stir each time for a minute while it is boiling ; season with 
white pepper, nutmeg, and make sure it is cooked. One great 
difficulty with sauces is they are raw. This makes the "White Sauce," 
which is the basis of many sauces. For " Hollandaise," add the 
yolks of 2 or 3 eggs, i tablespoon lemon-juice or vinegar, 2 table- 
spoons salad oil ; these may be added by putting them together in 
a separate dish and dipping a few spoons of the white sauce upon 
them and stirring thoroughly, and then pouring back into the 
sauce ; in this consistency the sauce makes a fine dressing for lobster 
or chicken salad. This sauce is suitable for any kind of boiled 
fish. 

HOT SOUR APPLE SAUCE. 

Pare and quarter the early sour apples and put to cook with just 
sufficient water to keep from burning; when done, add only 
enough sugar to take off the flat taste, then put through a sieve 
into a vegetable dish ; grate a very little nutmeg on the top and 
serve with roast pork. 



448 SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 

HOT SAUCE FOR MEATS. 

Four onions, 2 cups sugar, 32 medium tomatoes, I quart vinegar, 

4 peppers, 2 tablespoons salt, 2 tablespoons cinnamon, 2 table- 
spoons cloves, 3 tablespoons red pepper ; cook, strain and bottle. 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

Two teaspoons made mustard, 2 of white sugar, ^ teaspoon salt, 
and I gill vfnegar; mix and pour over grated horse-radish. Excel- 
lent with beef. 

ITALIAN SAUCE. 

Fry 2 tablespoons chopped shallots or onions in 2 ounces butter 
until brown ; add i pint chopped mushrooms, i ladle strained tomato 
sauce, some chopped parsley and the juice of ^ lemon; thicken 
slightly, darken with a few drops soy, and pour around the timbales 
before serving. 

LOBSTER SAUCE. 

One small lobster,4 tablespoons butter, 2 of flour, 1-5 teaspoon 
cayenne, 2 tablespoons lemon-juice, i pint boiling water. Cut the 
meat into dice; pound the " coral " with i tablespoon butter; rub 
the flour and the remainder of the butter to a smooth paste; add 
the water, pounded "coral," butter, and the seasoning; simmer 

5 minutes, and then strain on the lobster; boil up once, and serve. 
This sauce is for all kinds of boiled fish. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Take fresh, young mint, strip leaves from stems, wash, drain on 
a sieve, or dry them on a cloth ; chop very fine, put in a sauce- 
tureen, and to 3 heaped tablespoons mint add 2 of pounded sugar ; 
let remain a few minutes well mixed together, and pour over it 
gradually 6 tablespoons good vinegar. If members of the family 
like the flavor, but not the substance of the mint, the sauce may be 
strained after it has stood for 2 or 3 hours, pressing it well to extract 
all the flavor. It is better to make the sauce an hour or two before 
dinner, so that the vinegar may be impregnated with the mint. The 



SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 449 

addition of 3 or 4 tablespoons of the liquor from the boiling lamb 
is an improvement. 

Mint, when used in recipes, usually means " spearmint " or 
" green mint," though pennyroyal and peppermint are of the same 
family. 

BROWN MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

One pint of stock, 2 cloves, i small slice each of turnip, carrot, 
and onion, 3 tablespoons butter, 2 of flour, ^ can mushrooms, or 1-8 
pound of the fresh vegetable. Cut the mushrooms in small pieces, and 
fry in the butter with the cloves until brown ; add the flour, and stir 
until dark brown ; then gradually add the stock ; chop the mush- 
rooms, stir into the sauce, and simmer y^ hour ; rub through the 
sieve. 

This sauce is to be served with any kind of roasted, broiled, or 
braised meats. It is especially nice with beef. 

WHITE MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Make a mushroom sauce like the first, using i cup white stock 
and I cup cream, and cooking the butter only until smooth ; do 
not let it become browned. 

MADE MUSTARD. 

Pour a very little boiling water over 3 tablespoons mustard ; add 
I saltspoon salt, i tablespoon olive oil, stirred slowly in, and i 
tablespoon sugar ; add the yolk of i egg ; beat well together, and 
pour in vinegar to taste. It is best eaten next day. 

MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 
A mixture of egg yolks, oil, vinegar or lemon-juice. The prin- 
cipal point to be attended to in preparing this sauce is the mode of 
mixing, which demands time, patience and care. Break the yolk 
of I fresh egg into a bowl with i saltspoon pepper and salt mixed ; 
beat it till thick, then add from time to time during the mixing, 2 
or 3 drops best olive oil until about 4 ounces have been used and 
the mixture is thick and yellow ; when 8 teaspoons of oil have 

29 



450 CATSUPS AND SALADS. 

been used, stir in i teaspoon white wine vinegar, and continue 
adding oil and vinegar in these proportions until all the oil is used. 
The yolk of i egg would be sufficient for i pint of oil and vinegar 
in proportion. The addition of a few drojDs of lemon-juice makes 
mayonnaise look creamy. Mayonnaise will keep a long time if 
bottled closely and kept in a cool place. 

MAYONNAISE SAUCE, NO. 2. 

The yolks of 2 eggs, 6 tablespoons salad oil, 4 tablespoons vine- 
o-ar, salt and white pepper to taste, and 3 tablespoons sweet cream. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs thoroughly, season with pepper and salt, 
then add alternately a few drops at a time of the vinegar and oil, 
beating all the time, as herein consists the secret of having a nice 
sauce; when the vinegar and oil are well incorporated with the 
eggs, add the cream, stirring all the time, and it will then be ready 
for use. For a fish mayonnaise, this sauce may be colored with 
lobster eggb, pounded ; and for poultry or meat a little parsley- 
juice will add to its appearance. 

MELTED OR DRAWN BUTTER. 

Cut 2 large spoons butter into small pieces and put into a 
sauce-pan with i tablespoon f^our, and 10 of new milk. When 
thoroughly mixed add 6 tablespoons water ; shake it over the 
fire until it begins to simmer, shaking it always the same way ; then 
let it stand quietly and boil up ; it should be of the consistency of 
rich cream, and not thicker. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER. 

Knead together, on a plate with the point of a knife, equal 
quantities of chopped parsely and fresh butter; add pepper, salt 
and a little lemon-juice ; keep in a cool place. When a dish is' 
said to be a la Maitre d' Hotel it is generally served with this 
butter. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL SAUCE. 

Melt 2 ounces fresh butter in a small enameled sauce-pan, and 
stir to it, by degrees, 2 tablespoons flour ; continue stirring 5 or 10 



SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 45 1 

minutes, until the butter and flour are well blended, when add, also 
by degrees, ^ pint boiling cream and ^ pint good veal stock, also 
boiling; add a few spoons of each at a time and stir well, allowing 
the sauce to simmer i or 2 minutes between each addition ; when 
perfectly smooth, put in the strained juice of i lemon, or, if pre- 
ferred, I tablespoon Chili vinegar, a little pepper, i pinch salt, and 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. The yolks of 2 eggs are a great 
improvement to this sauce, and are almost necessary when it is 
served with fish ; but in that case only half the quantity of flour 
should be used, as the eggs help to thicken it. 

OLIVE SAUCE. 

Two dozen queen olives, i pint rich stock, the juice of i lemon, 

2 tablespoons salad oil, i of flour, salt, pepper, i small slice onion ; 
let the olives stand in hot water ^ hour, to extract the salt ; put 
the onion and oil in the stew-pan, and as soon as the onion begins 
to color add the flour; stir until smooth, and add the stock; set 
back where it will simmer ; pare the olives, round and round, close 
to the stones, and have the pulp in a single piece. If this is done 
carefully with a sharp knife, in somewhat the same way that an 
apple skin is removed whole, the olives will still have their natural 
shape after the stones are taken out ; put them in the sauce, add 
the seasoning, and simmer 20 minutes ; skim carefully, and serve. 
If the sauce is liked thin, half the amount of flour given can be 
used. This sauce is for roast ducks and other game. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

Prepare some nice drawn butter ; scald the oysters in a little 
water and mix them with the butter; mix well and let the sauce 
come nearly to a boil, after which serve with oyster crackers. 

PIQUANT SAUCE. 

Dissolve ly^ ounces butter in a small sauce-pan over a moderate 
fire ; throw in i tablespoon chopped onions, and stir them about 
for 2 minutes, sprinkle i teaspoon flour over them, and beat it with 



452 SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 

a wooden or iron spoon to prevent it from getting into lumps; 
add ^ pint stock or broth, i small bunch parsley, i sprig thyme, 
I bay leaf, and % teaspoon cayenne ; simmer gently for 20 
minutes, then lift out the herbs, pour in yi wineglass vinegar, and 
add a little pepper and salt if required ; let all boil up together and 
serve. 

PARSLEY SAUCE. 

Wash I bunch parsley in cold water, then boil it about 6 or 7 
minutes in salt and water; drain it, cut the leaves from the stalks, 
and chop them fine; have ready some melted butter, and stir in 
the parsley ; allow 2 small tablespoons leaves to ]4. pint butter. 
Serve with boiled fowls and fish. 

PEPPER SAUCE. 

Take 25 peppers, without the seeds, cut them pretty fine, then 
take more than double the quantity of cabbage, cut like slaw, i 
root of horseradish, grated, i handful salt, rather more than i table- 
spoon mustard seed, i tablespoon cloves, the same of allspice, 
ground ; simmer a sufificient quantity of vinegar to cover it, and 
pour over it, mixing it well through. 

SHRIMP SAUCE. 

Cream together % pound fine sweet butter with 3 ounces flour, 
and a pinch of salt ; add i pint boiling water and stir constantly in 
a double boiler, until it boils, to cook the flour. Remove from the 
fire and stir in 2 tablespoons cream or condensed milk ; then add yi 
pint pickled shrimps, shelled. The shrimps may be chopped if pre- 
ferred, but the sauce is better without. Garnish with shrimps and 
parsley. 

TARTARS SAUCE. 

The yolks of 2 uncooked eggs, ]^ cup oil, 3 tablespoons vinegar, 
I teaspoon mustard, i teaspoon sugar, ]^ teaspoon pepper, i tea- 
spoon salt, I teaspoon onion-juice, i tablespoon chopped capers, i 
tablespoon chopped cucumber pickles ; make the same as 



SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 453 

mayonnaise dressing ; add the chopped ingredients the last thing. 
This sauce can be used with fried and broiled meats and fish, and 
with meats served in jelly. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Stew ^ dozen large tomatoes with 3 cloves, i sprig parsley, 
pepper and salt, strain ; put i ounce butter in a sauce-pan over the 
fire ; v.-hen it bubbles add i tablespoon flour, stir, mix and cook 
done ; add the tomato pulp, stir smooth and thin with 4 tablespoons 
soup stock. Serve hot with the fish cutlets. 

♦ TOMATO SAUCE, NO. 2. 

One quart canned tomatoes, 2 tablespoons butter, 2 of flour, 8 
cloves and i small slice onion ; cook the tomato, onion and cloves 
10 minutes ; heat the butter in a small frying-pan, and add the 
flour; stir over the fire until smooth and brown, and then stir into 
the tomatoes ; cook 2 minutes, season to taste with salt and 
pepper, and rub through a strainer fine enough to keep back the 
seeds. This sauce is nice for fish, meat, and macaroni. 

TOMATO SAVORY. 

Four pounds tomatoes, i pint vinegar, 2 pounds sugar, cinnamon, 
cloves and mace; peel and slice the tomatoes, adding the vinegar, 
sugar and spices ; boil ^ hour and bottle, corking tightly to 
exclude the air. If not exposed to mold this will keep for years 
in a dry closet. 

VINAIGRETTE SAUCE. 

One teaspoon white pepper, i teaspoon salt, ^ teaspoon mus- 
tard, I cup vinegar, i tablespoon oil ; mix the salt, pepper and 
mustard together, then very slowly add the vinegar, and, after 
mixing well, add the oil. The sauce is to be eaten on cold meats 
or on fish. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

Cut up y^ pound best fresh butter in an enameled sauce-pan ; 
melt it slowly over a moderate fire, shaking it round frequently 



454 SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 

and skimming it well ; when the surface is perfectly free from 
scum allow it to settle for a few minutes, then pour it off from the 
sediment at the bottom ; carefully rinse out the saucepan, return 
the melted butter to it and again place it over the fire ; then 
dredge in gradually sufficient flour to make it very thick and 
smooth, stirring it well after each addition of flour; do not allow 
it to brown in the slightest degree, but keep it perfectly white to 
the last, simmering but not actually boiling, and be extremely 
guarded against smoke. To thicken white soups or sauces, stir in 
I or 2 tablespoons of this, which takes the place of cream. 



CHAPTKR XX, 

SOUPS. 



SOUPS. 

There are three kinds of soups — clear soup, thick soup and 
purees. K puree is made by rubbing the ingredients of which it is 
composed through a sieve. A thick soup is stock thickened by the 
addition of various thickening ingredients. These soups are best 
suited to the winter season. Clear soup is thin and bright, and 
adapted for use in the summer months, In making soup it is most 
important that every cuhnary article used should be perfectly clean. 
The inside of the covers of sauce-pans, the rims and the handles 
particularly require attention. The lid of the saucepan should 
never be removed over a smoky fire. The meat used should be 
freshly killed, and should be as lean as it can be procured ; it should 
never be washed. The bones should be broken up into small pieces. 
Cold water should be put upon fresh meat and bones ; boiling water 
(a small quantity at a time) upon meat or vegetables that have been 
fried or browned. As it is very important that no fatty particles 
should be left to float on the surface of the soup, this should be 
made, if possible, the day before it is wanted, so that the fat may 
be removed after it has grown cold. Soup should be simmered very 
softly till it is done enough. A large fire and quick boiling are the 
great enemies of good soup. In flavoring soup, the cook should be 
careful to add the seasoning ingredients in moderation and gradu- 
ually, especially such things as garlic, onions, shallots, spices, herbs, 
salt and cayenne. An overdose of salt has spoiled many a dish of 
soup, while a deficiency thereof has again and again nullified the 
effect of the most delicate combination of flavors. As a general 
rule, 2 ounces of salt will suffice for a gallon of soup stewed with 
large quantities of vegetables; Ij/^ ounce only will be needed if 
the vegetables are omitted, or if a small quantity only is used. It 

455 



456 SOUPS. 

should be remembered that salt and all seasonings can be added 
when they cannot be taken out. For flav^oring purposes, aromatic 
seasoning of herbs, and spices, and herb-powders for flavoring 
soups, will be found of great use. Whatever ingredients are added 
to soup, whether farinaceous articles, such as rice, vermicelli, 
macaroni, etc., or vegetables, all should be partially boiled in plain 
water before they are put into the liquor. This will insure their 
being perfectly clean and bright. The flavor of rich brown soups 
will be brought out better if a small piece of sugar be added to it. 
This must not be used for white soups. Cream or milk, when put 
with soups, should be boiled separately, strained, and added boil- 
ing. If, instead of cream, milk and the yolk of an egg are used, 
the egg must on no account be boiled in the liquor. Either it must 
be mixed thoroughly with a little of the soup which has cooled for 
a minute, then be stirred into the rest, or, better still, it must be 
put into the soup tureen, a spoonful of the soup mixed with the 
milk stirred into it, and the rest added gradually. If soups are to 
be kept for a few days they should be boiled up every day, accord- 
ing to the state of the weather, put into freshly scalded dry earthen- 
ware crocks or pans and kept in a cool place ; cover with a piece of 
gauze. Soup should never be kept in metal vessels. 

STOCK. 

Stock is the basis of all meat sauces, soups and purees. It is 
really the juice of meat extracted by long and gentle simmering, 
and in making it, it should be remembered that the object to be 
aimed at is to draw the goodness of the material out into the 
liquor. It may be prepared in various ways, richly and expensively, 
or economically. All general stock, or stock which is to be used 
for miscellaneous purposes, should, should be simply made, that is, 
all flavoring ingredients should be omitted entirely until its use is 
decided upon ; the stock w^ill then keep longer than it would do if 
vegetables, herbs and spices were broiled in it, besides which the 
flav'oring can be adapted to its special purpose. To insure its 
keeping, stocks should be boiled and skimmed every day in summer, 
and every other day in winter. The pan and lid used in making it 



SOUPS. 457 

should be scrupulously clean. A tinned iron pan is the best for the 
purpose. Those who wish to practice economy should procure a 
digester, which is a kind of stock-pot made with the object of 
retaining the goodness of the materials, and preventing its escape 
by steam, when ready stock should be kept in an earthenware 
vessel, and never allowed to cool in a metal pan. Before being 
used, skim off all fat. Excellent stock is constantly made with the 
bones and trimmings of meat and poultry, with the addition or not 
of a little fresh meat, or a portion of extract of meat. In a house 
where meat is regularly used, a good cook will never be without a 
little stock. Broken remnants of all kinds will find their way to 
the stock-pot, and will not be thrown away until, by gentle stewing, 
they have been made to yield to the utmost whatever of flavor and 
goodness they possessed. When fresh meat is used, it is better for 
being freshly killed. The liquor in which fresh meat has been 
boiled should always be used as stock. 

STOCK FOR CLEAR SOUPS. 

Five pounds clear beef, cut from the lower part of the round, 
5 quarts cold water. Let come to a boil slowly, skim carefully, and 
set where it will keep just at the boiling point for 8 or lo hours. 
Strain, and set away to cool. In the morning skim off. all the fat 
and turn the soup into the kettle, being careful not to let the sedi- 
ment pass in. Into the soup put i onion, i stalk celery, 2 leaves 
sage, 2 sprigs parsley, 2 of thyme, 2 of summer savory, 2 bay leaves, 
12 pepper-corns and 6 whole cloves. Boil gently from lo to 20 
minutes; salt and pepper to taste. Strain through an old napkin. 
This is now ready for serving as a simple clear soup, or for the 
foundation of all kinds of clear soups. 

GLAZE. 

Boil 4 quarts consomme (see "Consomme" in glossary) rapidly 
until reduced to i quart ; turn into small jars, and cool quickly. 
This will keep for a month in a cool, dry place. It is used for 
soups and sauces and for glazing meats. 



458 SOUPS. 



FRENCH PASTE FOR SOUPS. 

A preparation for flavoring and coloring soups and sauces comes 
in small tin boxes. In each box there are 12 little squares, which 
look very much like chocolate caramels. One of these will give 2 
quarts soup the most delicious flavor and a rich color. The paste 
should not be cooked with the soup, but put into the tureen, and 
the soup poured over it ; and as the soup is served, stir with the 
ladle. If you let it boil with the clear soup the flavor will not be 
so fine and the soup not so clear. It may be used with any dark 
or clear soup, even when already seasoned. 

WHITE STOCK. 

Six pounds of a shin of veal, i fowl, 3 tablespoons butter, 4 
stalks celery, 2 onions, i blade of mace, i stick cinnamon, 8 quarts 
cold water, salt, pepper; wash and cut the veal and fowl into small 
pieces ; put the butter in the bottom of the soup pot and then put 
in the meat with ^ pint of the water ; cover and cook gently 
(stirring often) ^ hour, then add the water ; let it come to a boil, 
then skim and set back where it will boil gently for 6 hours ; add 
the vegetables and spice, and boil i hour longer ; strain and cook 
quickly; in the morning take off all the fat; then turn the jelly 
gently into a deep dish, and with a knife scrape off the sediment 
which is on the bottom; put the jelly into a stone pot and set in a 
cold place. This will keep i week in cold weather and 3 days in 
warm. 

GREEN TURTLE SOUP. 

One can of green turtle, such as is put up by the " Merriam 
Packing Co." Separate the green fat from the other contents of 
the can, cut into dice, and set aside; put i quart water with the 
remainder of the turtle; add 12 pepper-corns, 6 whole cloves, 2 
small sprigs each of parsley, summer savory, sweet marjoram and 
thyme, 2 bay leaves, 2 leaves sage ; have the herbs tied together ; 
put I large onion, i slice of carrot, i of turnip, and i stalk celery, 
cut fine, into a pan, with 2 large tablespoons butter; fry 15 min- 
utes, being careful not to burn ; skim carefully from the butter and 



SOUPS. 459 

put into the soup. Now, into the butter in which the vegetables 
were fried put 2 tablespoons dry flour, and cook until brown ; stir 
into the soup ; season with salt and pepper, and let simmer very 
gently i hour; strain, skim off all the fat, and serve with thin 
slices of lemon, egg or forcemeat balls, and the green* fat; the 
lemon should have a very thin rind ; should be put into the tureen 
and the soup poured over it ; cooking the lemon in this or any 
other soup often gives it a bitter taste; if the soup is wished quite 
thick, add i tablespoon butter to that in which the vegetables were 
cooked, and use 3 tablespoons flour instead of 2 ; many people use 
wine in this soup, but it is delicious without ; in case you do use 
wine there should not be more than 4 tablespoons to this quantity; 
if you desire the soup extremely rich, use i quart rich soup stock; 
the green turtles are so very large that it is only in great establish- 
ments that they are available, and for this reason a rule for prepar- 
ing the live turtle is not given. Few housekeepers would ever see 
one. The cans contain not what is commonly called turtle soup, 
but the meat of the turtle, boiled, and the proper proportions of 
lean meat, yellow and green fat put together. They cost 50 cents 
each, and a single can will make soup enough for 6 persons. 

THICKENING FOR SOUP. 

Put into a sauce-pan j^ pound butter; when hot, stir into it ^ 
pound very dry flour ; stir this over the fire till a delicate brown, 
taking care that it does not burn. One large tablespoon thickens i 
quart soup. This thickening will keep a long time. 

SOUP FLAVORING. 

Take i ounce each of nutmeg and mace, 2 ounces each of white 
pepper and cloves, i ounce each of sweet basil, marjoram and 
thyme, ^ ounce bay leaves; first roughly pound the spices and 
dried herbs, then place between 2 sheets paper, fold tightly, and put 
in a warm place to dry; then pound quickly, put through a sieve, 
put in bottles, cork, and set away for use; i teaspoon of the mix- 
ture will season i gallon soup ; a pinch added to gravy or hash will 
give a delightful flavor. 



460 SOUPS. 

CLEAR AMBER SOUP. 

Put a 2-pound beef bone, i chicken and a slice of ham on to 
boil in a soup-kettle in i gallon cold water; let boil slowly for 4 
hours; mince and fry i onion in i tablespoon butter, add it to the 
soup with a sprig of parsley, ^ small carrot, ^ parsnip, i stalk 
celery, 3 whole cloves, pepper and salt; boil i hour, then strain the 
soup and let stand over night; next day remove the fat from the 
top, take up the jelly, carefully avoiding the settlings, and mix with 
the whites and shells of 2 eggs; boil quickly i minute; skim care- 
fully, strain through a bag until clear; color by adding i tablespoon 
caramel ; heat just before serving. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Select about 2 dozen good asparagus stalks; boil these thor- 
oughly in enough water to cover them ; %^ of an onion boiled with 
the asparagus is an improvement ; when tender, take the asparagus 
out of the water, saving the water, and removing the onion ; cut 
the asparagus into small pieces, of course only the tender part, and 
put them in a mortar, adding a little of the water; must be 
pounded until perfectly smooth ; now take i dessertspoon sifted 
flour, a bit of butter as big as an egg, and a very little pulverized 
sugar; mix well, and then put on the fire until it melts, stirring all 
the time; add this to the pounded asparagus and the rest of the 
water; when it has boiled a few minutes, mix the yolk of i egg 
with I tumbler cream, and add this ; if properly made, it wants no 
straining; use salt and pepper to taste, and a very little nutmeg; i 
stalk asparagus may be left, which may be cut in thin slices, and 
added last. 

BOUILLON. 

Four pounds beef, chopped fine at the butcher's, 4 quarts cola 
water ; put the beef on in the cold water, and let it take at least i 
hour to come to a boil; cook very slowly, simmering at the side of 
the stove, and never boiling hard; keep this up 4 or 5 hours, until 
this water is reduced to about 2 quarts; let the meat get cold in 
the liquor; all this should be done the day before it is to be used; 



SOUPS. 461 

next day remove the grease and strain the liquor through a thick 
cloth, squeezing every drop of moisture from the shreds of beef; 
put the liquor on the stove, bring to a boil, and stir in the white and 
shell of I egg; boil about 2 minutes, and strain the soup once more; 
the result will be a clear, amber-colored fluid ; if desired, this may 
be darkened by the addition of a little caramel ; of course, the 
bouillon may be made weaker, but these directions will, if fol- 
lowed exactly, produce most satisfactory results ; 2 quarts will prove 
enough for 16 or 18 medium-sized teacups, or for 20 after-dinner 
coffeecups. 

BEAN SOUP. 

Soak i^ pints beans in cold water over night; in the morning 
drain off the water, wash the beans in fresh water, and put them in 
a soup-kettle with 4 quarts good beef stock, from which all the fat 
has been removed ; set it where it wall boil slowly but steadily until 
dinner, or 3 hours at the least ; 2 hours before dinner slice in i 
onion and i carrot ; some think it improved by adding a little 
tomato; if the beans are not Hked whole, strain through a colander 
and send to the table hot. 

CREAM-OF-BARLEY SOUP. 

One teacup barley, well washed, 3 pints chicken stock, i onion, 
and a small piece each of mace and cinnamon ; cook slowly together 
5 hours, then rub through a sieve, and add i]4 pints boiling cream 
or milk; if milk, add also 2 tablespoons butter; salt and pepper to 
taste ; the yolks of 4 eggs, beaten with 4 tablespoons milk, and 
cooked I minute in the boiling milk or cream, makes the soup very 
much richer. 

BEEF SOUP. 

Take the cracked joints of beef, and after putting the meat in 
the pot and covering it well with water, let it come to a boil, when 
it should be well skimmed. Set the pot where the meat wall sim- 
mer slowly until it is thoroughly done, keeping it closely covered all 
the time. The next day, or when cold, remove the fat which 



462 SOUPS. 

hardens on the top of the soup. Peel, wash and slice 3 good-sized 
potatoes and put them into the soup; cut up ^ head white cab- 
bage in shreds, and add to this i pint green corn, 2 onions, i head 
celery and tomatoes if desired. When these arc done, and they 
should simmer slowly, care being taken that they do not burn, strain 
(or not as preferred) the soup and serve. The different varieties of 
beef soup are formed by this method of seasoning and the different 
vegetables used in preparing it, after the joints have been well 
boiled. Besides onions, celery, cabbage, tomatoes and potatoes, 
many use a few carrots, turnips, beets and forcemeat balls seasoned 
with spice ; rice or barley will give the soup consistency, and art 
to be preferred to flour for the purpose. Parsley, thyme and sage 
are the favorite herbs for seasoning, but should be used sparingly. 
To make forcemeat balls, add to i pound chopped beef, i egg, i 
small lump butter, i cup or less bread-crumbs; season with salt and 
pepper, and moisten with the water from stewed meat ; make in 
balls and fry brown, or make egg-balls by boiling eggs, mashing the 
yolks with a silver spoon, and mixing with i raw yolk and I tea- 
spoon flour; season with salt and pepper, make into balls, drop in 
soup just before serving. 

BEEF SOUP WITH MACARONI. 

Remove the fat from the stock in which the beef was boiled and 
strain it into the soup-pot ; break i cup macaroni into pieces about 
I inch long, and cook them tender in boiling water. Drain and add 
to the soup when it is scalding hot, let them boil together 15 min- 
utes, and serve. 

BROWN SOUP. 

For 2 quarts water use a 3- or 4-pound soup-bone; break bone 
and cut meat in small pieces. Slice i turnip, i carrot, a sprig of 
parsley and i small stalk celery; to these ingredients, reserving 
part of the meat, add 2 quarts water, 3 cloves, 3 pepper corns and I 
dessertspoon salt. Fry 3 onions in a little butter till a rich brown ; 
add these to the soup mixture. Then brown the reserved meat in 
the same pan and add it ; let this stand for i hour or more, or, in 



SOUPS. 463 

cool weather, it may be prepared at night and put on the stov^e to 
cook in the morning. Simmer slowly, adding more water as neces- 
sary ; strain, add i cup strained tomato, and thicken with i table- 
spoon flour and i of butter browned together ; if desired browner 
add caramel. 

CABBAGE SOUP. 

Put into your soup kettle 2 pounds sweet bacon or pork that 
has not been too long in salt; add, if you like, a bit of knuckle of 
veal, or mutton, or beef, or all three ; skim well as they come to a boil. 
Shred into a pail of cold water "the hearts of i or 2 cabbages, 'some 
carrots, turnips, celery and leeks; when the soup boils, throw all 
these in ; when the vegetables are tender without falling to pieces, 
the soup is done. You may thicken with a few mashed, boiled 
potatoes. Simmer the meat 2 hours before adding the vegetables. 

CELERY SOUP. 

One quart veal stock or chicken broth, i^ pints milk, ^ teacup 
rice and 2 heads of celery ; lopk over and wash the rice, put it into 
the milk and set on the back of the stove, where it will just sim- 
mer; grate the roots and white part of the celery and add to the 
milk; cook until the rice is tender, adding more milk if necessary ; 
when done rub through a sieve and add to the stock, which should 
have been previously strained ; salt and white pepper to taste. 
This is a most delicious soup. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

Cut up a chicken and break the bones; cook until very tender 
in 3 quarts water, adding water as it boils away so that when done 
there will be 3 quarts soup ; boil very slowly, and when done 
remove the meat and bones from the kettle, pour the soup into an 
earthen dish and let stand until cold, then remove every particle of 
fat from the stock, pour into a sauce-pan, and set on the stove; 
have ready ^ cup rice, looked over and washed, which add to the 
soup ; fry in a little butter i small onion, 2 or 3 stalks celery, ^ 



464 SOUPS. 

small turnip, and i carrot, add to the soup and boil slowly i hour ; 
chop the breast of the fowl veiy fine, add to the soup and rub all 
through a fine sieve ; put back on the fire, add i pint rich milk, 
I tablespoon butter, pepper and salt to taste ; boil up once, and 
serve ; parsley or thyme may be used to flavor this soup without 
other vegetables ; or plain chicken soup or broth may be served 
with only pepper and salt for seasoning, 

CHICKEN AND SAGO SOUP. 

Three pints of liquor, in which a chicken has been boiled, ^ 
cup German sago, 2 cups milk, 3 eggs, 2 tablespoons minced 
parsley, pepper and salt ; soak the sago 4 hours in enough cold 
water to cover it, then add it to the liquor, which should have been 
strained and skimmed, and put over the fire in a farina kettle ; heat 
to boiling, by which time the sago should be dissolved ; heat the 
milk in a separate vessel and pour, scalding hot, on the beaten 
yolks; add, with a pinch of soda, to the sago broth, season, stir for 
5 minutes, and beat in the frothed whites and parsley and turn out. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Put 30 clams in a pot with 4 quarts water ; let them boil 2 hours 
and then take them out and chop fine ; return to the pot and add a 
little mace and a few pepper corns; boil i hour longer; rub 
smoothly together a small piece butter, with 2 tablespoons flour, 
and stir this with i pint boiling milk; when the clam soup has 
boiled 3 hours pour it into a tureen and stir in the thickened milk. 
Canned clams make a nice soup after the above receipt. 

PHILADELPHIA CLAM SOUP. 

Twenty-five small clams, i quart milk, ^ cup butter, i table- 
spoon chopped parsley, 3 potatoes, 2 large tablespoons flour, salt, 
pepper; the clams should be chopped fine and put into a colander 
to drain ; pare the potatoes and chop rather fine ; put them on to 
boil with the milk, in a double kettle ; rub the butter and flour 
together until perfectly creamy, and when the milk and potatoes 



SOUPS. 465 

have been boiling 15 minutes, stir this in, and cook 8 minutes more ; 
add the parsley, pepper and salt, and cook 3 minutes longer ; now 
add the clams ; cook i minute longer and serve. This gives a very 
delicate soup, as the liquor from the clams is not used. 

CRECY SOUP. 

The materials needed for this soup are i quart rich brown stock, i 
pint carrot, i teaspoon sugar, i teaspoon salt, a little pepper, and i 
small onion sliced ; wash and scrape the carrot ; shave off in thin slices 
I pint of the outer part; do not use the yellow center; cook the car- 
rot with the onion in boiling salted water until tender ; rub the carrot 
through a colander, add the stock, and heat again ; add the sugar, 
salt and pepper, and when hot serve immediately with croutons. 

CORN SOUP. 

Cut the corn from the cob, and boil the cobs in water for at 
least I hour, then add the grains, and boil until they are thoroughly 
done; put 12 ears corn to i gallon water, which will be reduced to 
3 quarts by the time the soup is done ; then pour on i pint new 
milk, 2 well-beaten eggs, salt and pepper to your taste; continue 
the boiling a while longer, and stir in, to season and thicken it a 
little, I tablespoon good butter rubbed up with 2 tablespoons 
flour. Corn soup may also be made nicely with water in which i 
pair grown fowls have been boiled or parboiled, instead of having 
plain water for the foundation. 

DRIED CORN SOUP. 
Soak I cup dried sweet corn over night ; the next forenoon add 
water, a small piece of salt pork, and a bit of red pepper; cook till 
the corn is tender; ^ hour before dinner make a batter of i egg, a 
little milk, salt, flour, and a bit of soda; drop from a spoon in little 
dumplings into the soup; remove the pork, and serve as soon ah> 
the dumplings are done; this soup may be made of canned corn. 

CURRY SOUP. 

Remove all fat from the liquor in which the tongue was cooked^ 
season and let it boil ^4 hour with i chopped onion and several 

30 



466 SOUPS. 

stalks of celery ; strain these out and add to the soup ^ cup well- 
soaked rice ; let this cook until tender; lo minutes before dinner 
stir in 2 good teaspoons curry powder and let simmer until needed; 
if this proportion of curry should make the soup too hot for the 
palates of the family, it may be lessened next time Tastes vary so 
widely in this respect, that experience is the only reliable teacher. 

CONSOMME. 

Take i pound beef and i of veal; cut in small pieces; put 2 
ounces butter in a soup-kettle and melt, put in the meat, and stir 
over the fire until brown ; cover the kettle, remove to the back of 
the stove, and let simmer gently 25 minutes; pour over 2 quarts 
cold water, and let simmer 3 hours; now add i onion chopped, a 
sprig of parsley, i stalk of celery, I small-sized carrot, and i 
small potato, all chopped, let boil slowly I hour longer, and strain; 
put in a cool place ; when ready to serve, take off the fat, heat the 
soup, season with salt, pepper, and a very little lemon-juice ; if 
desired, color with caramel. 

EGG SOUP. 

Boil a leg of lamb about 2 hours in water enough to cover it; 
after it has boiled about i hour and when carefully skimmed, add 
^ cup rice, and pepper and salt to taste. Have ready in your 
tureen 2 eggs well beaten ; add the boiling soup, a little at a time, 
stirring constantly. Serve the lamb with drawn butter, garnish 
with parsley and hard-boiled eggs cut into slices. 

FISH SOUP. 

Select a large, fine fish, clean it thoroughly, put it over the fire 
with a sufficient quantity of water, allowing for each pound fish i 
quart water ; add i onion cut fine, and i bunch sweet herbs. When 
the fish is cooked, and is quite tasteless, strain all through a col- 
ander, return to the fire, add some butter, salt and pepper to taste-; 
I small tablespoon Worcestershire sauce may be added if liked 
Serve with small squares of fried bread and thin slices of lemon. 



SOUPS. 467 

GIBLET SOUP. 

The giblets from 2 or 3 fowls or chickens, any kind of stock, or 
if there are remains of roast chickens, use these ; i large onion, 2 
slices carrot, i of turnip, 2 stalks celery, 2 quarts water, i of stock, 
2 large tablespoons butter, 2 of flour, salt, pepper. Put the giblets 
on to boil in the 2 quarts water, and boil gently until reduced to i 
quart (it will take about 2 hours); then take out the giblets. Cut all 
the hard, tough parts from the gizzards, and put hearts, livers and 
gizzards together and chop rather coarse ; return them to the 
liquor in which they were boiled, and add the quart of stock. Have 
the vegetables cut fine, and fry them in the butter until they are 
very tender (about 15 minutes), but be careful they do not burn; 
then add the dry flour to them and stir until the flour browns ; 
turn this mixture into the soup, and season with pepper and salt ; 
cook gently ^ hour and serve with toasted bread. If the chicken 
bones are used, put them on to boil in 3 quarts water, and boil the 
giblets with them. When you take out the giblets, strain the stock 
through a sieve and return to the pot ; then proceed as before. 

GAME SOUP. 

The bones, trimmings and remains of cold game, 2 quarts 
stock, I large carrot, i large onion, i small turnip, 4 heads celery, 
4 ounces barley, i gill cream, 3 yolks of eggs. Break the bones 
and cut the remains of the game into small pieces, and put them 
into a stew-pan, and pour over them the stock ; now add the car- 
rot, onion, turnip and celery, all cut into small dice; let the soup 
boil, skim it carefully, draw to one side of the fire and let it simmer 
gently for 2 hours, when strain and skim off the fat ; now wash the 
barley and boil it in a separate sauce-pan until it is done, when 
drain and put half of the quantity aside; pound the other half 
with the yolks of the eggs (previously boiled hard) ; rub the mix- 
ture through a fine sieve, moisten with the cream and add it very 
gradually to the soup. Stir the whole over the fire till it is very 
hot (do not allow it to boil), add the remainder of the barley and 
and serve at once. 



468 SOUPS. 

GUMBO SOUP. 

Take a piece ham ^ the size of your hand, and a knuckle of 
veal ; put them in a pot with 2 quarts cold water ; simmer slowly 2 
or 3 hours, then add 2 quarts boiling water; 20 minutes before 
serving, put in i small can okra and as many oysters as you please ; 
season to taste. 

This may be made in the same way with chicken broth. 

ICED SOUP. 

Three-quarters pound veal, i slice lean ham, i onion, 2 bay-leaves, 
I carrot, i turnip, i head celery, y^ pint pease, % pint beans, i bunch 
parsley, 6 cloves, i blade mace. 

Stew the veal and ham in i quart water for 6 hours ; add the 
onions, bay-leaves, carrot, turnip, parsley, celery and spice ; season 
with salt and pepper, and stew for 2 hours ; keep very clear, strain 
and skim well. Cut the beans small and boil with the pease in the 
soup for yi hour. Cut small balls from the carrot and throw in 
before serving. Stand the soup in a basin, in a tureen filled with 
rough ice. 

JULLIENNE SOUP. 

Take 3 small carrots, i turnip, i stalk celery and i onion ; cut 
them in pieces i inch long; fry the onion in butter, about half 
done ; add the other vegetables, let fry for a few minutes, season 
with I teaspoon powdered sugar and a pinch salt, moisten with i 
gill broth, and cook until reduced to a glaze, then add 2 quarts good 
rich stock, and set on the back of the stove to simmer slowly; in 
y2 hour add a few raw sorrel leaves', when ready to serve, poach 
some eggs, i for each person, and drop in the bottom of the soup 
tureen, and pour the soup over. 

LOBSTER SOUP. 

One large lobster ; pick all the meat from the shell and chop 
fine; take i quart milk and i pint water, and, when boiling, add the 
lobster, nearly i pound butter, salt and pepper to taste, and i table- 
spoon flour. Boil 10 minutes. 



SOUPS. 469 

MACARONI, OR VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Two small carrots, 4 onions, 2 turnips, 2 cloves, i tablespoon 
salt; pepper to taste ; herbs — marjoram, parsley and thyme ; any 
cooked or uncooked meat ; put the soup bones in enough water to 
cover them ; when they boil, skim them and add the vegetables ; 
simmer 3 or 4 hours, then strain through a colander and put back 
in the sauce-pan to reheat. Boil y^ pound macaroni until quite 
tender, and place in the soup tureen, and pour the soup over it — 
the last thing. Vermicelli will only need to be soaked a short time 
— not boiled. 

MOCK TERRAPIN SOUP. 

For the mock terrapin soup, take \y^ pounds calf's liver and 
put in salt boiling water for yi hour; add small herbs, }^ dozen 
grains pepper, i teaspoon cloves, a few slices of onion, carrot, etc.; 
when the vegetables are done, take them out and mash by putting 
them through a colander or sieve ; make a Spanish sauce of salt 
pork or bacon, fried enough to get the fat out of it ; put into the 
fat a little slice of onion, a little celery, ^ dozen peppers, Yi cup 
tomato, and cook brown ; take i teaspoon salad oil, yolk of i hard- 
boiled Qgg, dust of cayenne pepper; roll to paste, and make into 
small, round balls; put these into Spanish sauce, then put the 
sauce into the soup; when they come to the top, skim them out; 
put in the tureen i glass wine and slice of lemon, and pour in the 
soup; then cut the calf's liver into small bits and add it. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Clean a calf's head well and let it stand in salt and water 2 or 3 
hours ; then soak it in fresh water ; put it to boil in cold water, 
and when sufficiently cooked, separate the meat from the bone ; 
strain the broth, cut the meat in small pieces, and add it to the 
broth ; season with salt and Worcestershire sauce ; next take i pound 
suet, and 2 pounds veal, chopped fine, with sufficient bread crumbs ; 
seasoning as above, make some forcemeat balls and fry them in 
butter ; chop 3 hard-boiled eggs fine, add these and i glass of wine. 



4/0 SOUPS. 

MULLIGATAWNEY SOUP. 

One chicken or fowl weighing 3 pounds, 3 pounds veal, 2 large 
onions, 2 large slices carrot, 4 stalks celery, 3 large tablespoons 
butter, I tablespoon curry powder, 4 of flour, salt, pepper, and 5 
quarts water; take 2 tablespoons of the fat from the opening in 
the chicken, and put in the soup-pot ; as soon as melted, put in the 
vegetables, which have been cut very fine ; let all cook together for 
20 minutes, stirring frequently that it may not burn ; then add the 
veal, and cut into small pieces; cook 15 minutes longer, then add 
the whole chicken and the water; cover, and let it come to a boil; 
skim, and set back where it will simmer for 4 hours, in the mean- 
time taking out the chicken when it is tender ; now put the butter 
into a small frying-pan, and when hot add the dry flour; stir until 
a rich brown ; then take from the fire and add the curry powder; 
stir the mixture into the soup, and let it cook y^ hour longer ; then 
strain through a sieve, rinse out the soup pot, and return the 
strained soup to it ; add salt and pepper and the chicken, which has 
been freed from the bones and skin, and cut into small pieces; 
simmer very gently 30 minutes,skim off any fat that may rise to the 
top, and serve. This soup is served with plain boiled rice in a 
separate dish, or with small squares of fried or toasted bread. The 
rice can be served in the soup if you choose. 

MULLIGATAWNEY SOUP, NO. 2. 

Chicken or turkey left from a former dinner, bones and scraps 
from roast veal, lamb, or mutton, 4 quarts water, 4 stalks celery, 4 
tablespoons butter, 4 of flour, i of curry, 2 onions, 2 slices carrot, 
salt, pepper, and ^ small cup barley ; put on the bones of the 
poultry and meat with the water; have the vegetables cut very 
fine, and cook gently 20 minutes in the butter; then skim them 
into the soup pot, being careful to press out all the butter; into 
the butter remaining in the pan put the flour, and when that is 
brown add the curry powder, and stir all into the soup; cook 
gently 4 hours, then season with salt and pepper, and strain ; return 
to the pot, and add bits of chicken or turkey, as the case may be, 



SOUPS. 471 

and the barley, which has been simmering 2^ hours in clear water 
to cover; simmer ^ hour, and serve. 

MUTTON SOUP. 

Boil a leg of mutton from 2 to 3 hours, and season with salt, 
pepper and about i tablespoon summer savory rubbed fine; add 
rice or noodles, as desired. 

MUSHROOM SOUP. 

Take a good quantity of mushrooms, cut off the earthy end, and 
pick and wash them ; stew them with some butter, pepper, and 
salt in a little good stock till tender; take them out, and chop them 
up quite small ; prepare a good stock as for any other soup, and add 
it to the mushrooms and the liquor they have been stewed in ; boil 
all together, and serve ; if white soup be desired, use the white 
button-mushrooms and a good veal stock, adding i spoon cream or a 
little milk, as the color may require. 

NOODLE SOUP. 

See ^'' Noodles for Soup." 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Take 2 tails, wash, and put into a kettle with about i gallon cold 
water and a little salt ; skim off the broth ; when the meat is well 
cooked, take out the bones, and add a httle onion, carrot and 
tomatoes ; it is better made the day before using, so that the fat 
can be taken from the top; add vegetables next day, and boil i]/2 
hours longer. 

ONION SOUP. 

Two large Spanish or 3 Bermuda onions, 2 tablespoons butter, 2 
quarts soup stock, salt and pepper ; peel and chop the onions into 
dice; put the butter into a frying-pan, and when hot add the onions, 
and stir until a nice brown; put the stock on to boil; when it boils, 
skim the onions out of the butter and add them to the stock ; let 
them simmer for 30 minutes, add salt and pepper, and it is ready 
to serve. 



472 SOUPS. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Two quarts oysters, i quart milk, 2 tablespoons butter, i teacup, 
hot water, pepper, salt ; strain all the liquor from the oysters, add 
the water, and heat ; when near the boil, add the seasoning, then 
the oysters; cook about 5 minutes from the time they begin to 
simmer, until they " ruffle ; " stir in the butter, cook i minute, and 
pour into the tureen; stir in the boiling milk, and send to table; 
some prefer all water in place of milk. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Four pounds beef, ^ peck green pease ; cut the beef into small 
pieces and boil slowly for i ^ hours ; ^ hour before serving add the 
shelled pease, season with salt and pepper and add a little thicken- 
ing ; strain through a colander before serving. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

Soak in warm water over night i quart split pease ; put the 
soaked pease with ^ pound salt pork cut in thin slices and a cracked 
beef bone or two, into 4 quarts cold water, add a chopped onion, 
salt and pepper to taste; strain through a colander, rubbing the 
peas to a tolerably thick puree; simmer 10 minutes and pour into 
the tureen, in which has previously been placed a peeled and sliced 
lemon. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Boil 5 or 6 potatoes, cut into thick slices, and just covered with 
water, with a small piece of salt pork for 3^ hour ; press through a 
colander, and add milk and butter until the paste assumes the con- 
sistency of thick cream ; cut some dry bread into small dice, toast 
till crisp, place on the bottom of the tureen, and pour the soup 
over. A couple of chopped onions may be boiled in the soup. 

POTAGE A LA REINE. 

Three pints veal stock, the bones of a roast chicken, i teacup 
raw rice, i small onion, i teaspoon salt, ]^ teaspoon pepper and a 



SOUPS. 475 

bit of mace; let all boil i hour; in the meantime boil the meat of 
the chicken Yz hour, pound it to a paste, adding a little of the veal 
stock and rubbing through a coarse sieve; strain the soup through 
a sieve, rubbing through the rice ; add the chicken and bring to 
boiling point ; at the last moment add i cup hot milk or cream. 

RABBIT SOUP. 

Cut the rabbit into pieces and soak in warm water for lO min- 
utes, to draw out the blood ; put the pieces into a sauce-pan with i 
quart white broth, or, if you have not this, milk and water ; season 
with salt, and add a few sprigs of parsley ; let this simmer slowly 
until the meat is very tender ; strain, pick all the meat from the 
bones, and chop it as fine as possible; return it to the soup, and 
set over the fire, adding I cup hot cream, and 2 tablespoons sifted 
bread-crumbs ; a nice change is made by adding either rice, pearl 
barley, or vermicelli, which must be cooked separately in boiling 
water or milk, and added to the soup just before serving; small 
slices of lightly-buttered and well-browned toast should accom- 
pany it. This is palatable as well as nourishing. 

CREAM OF RICE. 

Wash I pound rice and put in a sauce-pan, with 2 quarts cold 
water, i onion stuck with 2 cloves, i carrot, salt, and a little white 
pepper ; one small meat bone or i chicken may also be boiled with 
the other ingredients. These should be boiled for 2 hours, adding 
enough water from time to time to keep the quantity of soup 
wanted ; then strain the liquor and press the juice through a fine 
sieve ; add i pint boiling milk, i teaspoon butter and mix in the 
yolks of 2 eggs, when this palatable soup will be prepared. 

SAGO SOUP. 

Make a good beef soup, with 2 pounds meat and bone and 2^ 
quarts cold water ; add i onion, some parsley and carrots and sim- 
mer 4 or 5 hours ; put in a very little salt. Let the stock, when 
done, get cold ; take off the fat and reheat the soup, putting in i 



474 SOUPS. 

tablespoon sago to i quart stock ; season to taste and add a few 
drops of lemon-juice. 

SPRING SOUP. 

Half a pint green pease, yi pint cauliflower, i pint turnip, carrot, 
celery and string beans (all the 4 vegetables being included in the 
pint), y2 cup tomato, yi pint asparagus heads, 2 quarts soup stock 
— any kind will do, — 3 tablespoons butter, 3 tablespoons flour and 
salt and pepper ; cook all the vegetables, except the pease and 
tomato, in water to cover, i hour ; cook butter and dry flour 
together until smooth, but not brown ; stir into the stock, which 
has been heated to the boiling point ; now add the tomato and 
simmer gently 15 minutes; then strain; add the pease and cooked 
vegetables to the strained soup, and simmer again for 30 minutes. 
Serve small slices of toasted bread in a separate dish. 

SQUASH SOUP. 

Pare 2 small summer squashes and cut them into slices; put 
them into a sauce-pan, with 2 ounces butter, i onion, sliced, i salt- 
spoon pepper, i teaspoon salt and ^ pint good stock ; cover and 
simmer for 30 minutes ; press the whole through a fine sieve, then 
add I quart good boiling stock and ^ pint cream; put it in a 
double boiler, season to taste and, when very hot, pour it into the 
tureen over the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Serve croutons with 
it. Very good. 

SWISS WHITE SOUP. 

A sufficient quantity of broth for 6 people; boil it ; beat up 3 
eggs well, 2 spoons flour, i cup milk ; pour these gradually through 
a sieve into the boiling soup; salt and pepper. 

FRENCH TOMATO SOUP. 

Take i quart canned tomatoes or 3 quarts raw ones and place in 
an earthen vessel ; cut into this 2 small onions, boil 2 hours, and 
strain into i quart beef stock. Before sending to the table thicken 
with 3 tablespoons corn-starch, adding i teaspoon celery salt, and 
serve with croutons. 



SOUPS. 475 

CREAM TOMATO SOUP. 

Take a knuckle of veal and a beef bone for soup, boil slowly 
with some celery for i hour, strain and add i can tomatoes ; cook 
^ hour ; strain again. Mix i tablespoon crackers, powdered, with 
I cup cream in a bowl, add to it some of the soup, mix thoroughly 
and pour all back into the pot ; boil gently a few minutes and 
serve. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One quart tomatoes, i onion, 2 ounces flour, 4 ounces butter, 2 
tablespoons sugar, 2 of salt, ^ teaspoon cayenne pepper, 3 pints 
water, y^ pint milk; boil the tomatoes and onion in water for ^4^ 
hour; add salt, pepper, sugar, butter, and flour; rub smoothly 
together like thin cream; boil 10 minutes; boil milk separately; 
when both are boiling, pour the milk into the tomatoes, to prevent 
curdling. Serve with squares of toasted bread. 

TURKEY SOUP. 

Take the turkey bones and boil ^ hour in water enough to 
cover them ; add a little summer savory and celery chopped fine ; 
just before serving, thicken with a little browned flour, and season 
with pepper, salt, and a small piece butter ; this is a cheap but good 
soup, using the remains of cold turkey which might otherwise be 
thrown away. 

TAPIOCA CREAM SOUP. 

One quart white stock, i pint cream or milk, i onion, 2 stalks 
celery, 3^ cup tapioca, 2 cups cold water, i tablespoon butter, a 
small piece of mace, salt, pepper ; wash the tapioca, and soak over 
night in cold water; cook it and the stock together very gently for 
I hour; cut the onion and celery into small pieces, and put on to 
cook for 20 minutes with the milk and mace ; strain on the tapioca 
and stock ; season with salt and pepper, add butter, and serve. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Put a piece of pork that is not too fat, and any bones left from 
roast beef in a soup-kettle with as much water as will be needed 



4/6 sours. 

for soup, and set the kettle on the fire ; as soon as the water boils, 
add potatoes, carrots, celery, i onion, and a small Savoy cabbage, 
all cut in small pieces, and salt to taste; simmer for 2^ hours, 
remove the bones and pork, and serve. 

CARAMEL AND BROWNED FLOUR FOR SOUPS. 

For caramel, put i teacup sugar and 2 teaspoons water in a 
sauce-pan over the fire, stir constantly till it is a dark color, then 
add Yz teacup water and a pinch of salt, let boil for a few moments, 
take off, and, when cold, bottle. To brown flour, put i pint in a 
sauce-pan on the stove, and when it begins to color, stir constantly 
till it is a dark brown, being careful that it does not burn ; when 
cold put away in a tin can or jar covered closely, and keep in a dry 
place, where it is always ready for soups or gravies ; as it requires 
more of this for thickening than of unbrowned flour, it maybe well 
sometimes to take ^ of each. A few cloves may be stuck in the 
meat for soup; or it may first be fried in a sauce-pan with a little 
butter, turning till brown on all sides; or sliced onions may be fried 
brown and added to soup. 

CROUTONS FOR SOUP. 

In a frying-pan have the depth of i inch of boiling fat ; also 
have prepared slices of stale bread, cut up into little ^-inch squares; 
drop into the frying-pan enough of these bits of bread to cover the 
surface of the fat ; when browned, remove with a skimmer and 
drain ; add to the hot soup, and serve. 

FORCEMEAT BALLS FOR SOUP. 

One cup cooked veal or fowl meat, minced ; mix with this i 
handful fine bread-crumbs, the yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs, rubbed 
smooth, together with i tablespoon milk; season with pepper and 
salt ; add ^^^ teaspoon flour, and bind all together with 2 beaten 
eggs; the hands to be well-floured, and the mixture to be made 
into little balls the size of a nutmeg; drop into the soup about 20 
minutes before servinsf. 



SOUPS. 477 

POACHED EGGS FOR SOUP. 

Have ready a stew-pan of boiling water, to which add a httle 
salt and ^ wine glass of white vinegar; place the stew-pan on the 
side of the fire, so that the water is kept boiling gently ; break- 
each egg in a teacup, and let it drop carefully into the water; 
repeat the operations until there are 4 or 5 eggs in the stew-pan, 
which withdraw from the fire and keep covered 3 minutes; then 
take the eggs out with a slice, and put them in a basin of cold 
water; when about to serve the soup, cut off the superfluous white 
which adheres to the poached eggs, and warm in a little clear soup; 
when hot, put them carefully in the soup-tureen ; it is, however, 
preferable to serve the eggs separate, either in a soup-plate or silver 
dish ; as by putting them in the tureen with the soup, the risk is 
run of having them broken with the soup-ladle. 

EGG BALLS FOR SOUP. 

Take the yolks of 6 hard-boiled eggs and y^ tablespoon wheat 
flour ; rub them smooth with the yolks of 2 raw eggs and i teas- 
poon salt ; mix all well together ; make it in balls, and drop them 
into the boihng soup a few minutes before taking it up. Used in 
" Green Turtle Soup." 

EGG DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP. 

To y^ pint milk put 2 well-beaten eggs, and as much wheat flour 
with Yi teaspoon baking powder, as will make a smooth, rather thick 
batter free from lumps; drop this batter, a tablespoon at a time, 
into boiling soup. 

NOODLE FOR SOUP. 

Add noodles to beef or any other soup after straining ; they 
will cook in 15 or 20 minutes, and are prepared in the following 
manner: To i egg add as much sifted flour as it will absorb, with 
a little salt ; roll out as thin as a wafer, dredge very lightly with 
flour, roll over and over into a large roll, slice from the ends, shake 
out the strips loosely and drop into the soup. 



4/8 SOUPS. 

SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT. 



ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Two bundles asparagus, i quart white stock or water, i pint 
milk, and i of cream if stock is used, but if water use all cream, 3 
tablespoons butter, 3 of flour, i onion, salt and pepper ; cut the 
tops from I bunch of the asparagus and cook them 20 minutes in 
salted water to cover ; the remainder of the asparagus cook 20 min- 
utes in the quart of stock or water; cut the onion into thin slices 
and fry in the butter 10 minutes, being careful not to burn; then 
add the asparagus that has been boiled in the stock; cook 5 min- 
utes, stirring constantly ; then add flour and cook 5 minutes longer ; 
turn this mixture into the boiling stock and boil gently 20 minutes ; 
rub through a sieve, add the milk and cream, which has just come 
to a boil, and also the asparagus heads ; season with salt and pep- 
per, and serve ; dropped eggs can be served with it if you choose, 
but they are rather heavy for such a delicate soup. 

BEAN SOUP. 
This soup is usually made with meat, but it is very good with- 
out if prepared thus : Soak i quart beans over night in warm 
water, cook them in the same water in the morning with i small 
onion ; when very soft, rub them through a sieve and return to the 
kettle ; add enough milk to make it as thin as liked, and season 
with butter, pepper and salt ; stir occasionally while it is scalding 
as it is liable to scorch ; when it boils up it is done ; this is not 
only very palatable, but it is also a very healthful and nourishing 
dish, which we all enjoy. 

BEAN SOUP, NO. 2. • 
Parboil I pint beans, drain off the water, add fresh, let boil 
until perfectly tender, season with pepper and salt, add a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, or more if preferred; when done skim 
out Yi the beans, leaving the broth with the remaining 3^ in the 
kettle; now add i teacup sweet cream or good milk, I dozen or 
more crackers, broken up ; let it boil up and serve. 



sours. 479 

CABBAGE SOUP. 

Shave fine l cabbage, boil till tender, season with salt and pep- 
per and drop in dumplings, made as for pot-pie; when ready to 
serve add butter and sweet cream to taste. 

CREAM OF CELERY. 

To prepare soup for 12 persons the trimmings and outside 
leaves of i dozen of celery will prove sufficient. Wash and clean 
the celery, removing all green portions, cut it up into small pieces 
in a sauce-pan, and, after adding enough cold water ta cover, allow 
it to boil I hour; during the boiling pour in enough hot water to 
keep the celery covered. Melt in another sauce-pan 2 tablespoons 
butter and mix with i teacup flour; boil i quart milk and stir 
the butter and ilour slowly but thoroughly into it ; strain the 
water off the celery and pour it into this milk, and stir it until it 
shall come to a boil, season with salt and pepper and a little ground 
mace, if spices be desirable, and strain all through a fine sieve, beat 
the yolks of 2 eggs and mix quickly into this soup, when it will 
be ready to ser\'e. Stale bread cut in small dice pieces and fried 
brown should invariable be served with this or any other cream 
soup. 

DUCHESS SOUP. 

One quart milk, 2 large onions, 3 eggs, 2 tablespoons butter, 2 
of flour, salt, pepper, 2 tablespoons grated cheese ; put milk on to 
boil ; fry the butter and onions together for 8 minutes, then add 
dry flour and cook 2 minutes longer, being careful not to burn ; 
stir into the milk, and cook 10 minutes; rub through a strainer 
and return to the fire ; now add the cheese ; beat the eggs with a 
speck of pepper and ^ teaspoon salt ; season the soup with salt 
and pepper ; hold the colander over the soup and pour the eggs 
through, upon the butter, and set back for 3 minutes where it will 
not boil ; then serv^e. The cheese may be omitted if it is not liked. 

FRENCH SOUP. 

Put butter the size of a pigeon's egg into the sauce-pan ; when 
very hot add 2 or 3 large onions sliced very thin ; stir and cook 



48o SOUPS. 

until they are red ; add ^ teacup flour, stirring until it is red, and 
taking care that it does not burn ; now pour in about i pint boihng 
water, stir well, season with plenty of salt and pepper and let boil 
I minute; then pour the whole into the soup-kettle and set at the 
back of the stove till just before time to serve, when add i^ pints 
boiling milk, and 2 or 3 boiled and mashed potatoes. Before put- 
ting in the potatoes mix them up smooth and thin with a little of 
the soup. Stir all well together and simmer a few minutes. Put 
bits of toasted bread in the soup-tureen, pour in the soup and serve 
very hot. 

MILK SOUP. 

Four potatoes, 2 onions, 2 ounces butter, j^ ounce salt, pepper 
to taste, I pint milk, 3 tablespoons tapioca; boil slowly all the 
vegetables with 2 quarts water several hours, then strain through 
the colander, and add the milk and tapioca; boily slowly and stir 
constantly for 15 minutes, and it is ready to serve. 

GREEN-PEA SOUP. 

Cover I quart green pease with hot water, and boil with i onion, 
until they will mash easily — the time will depend on the age of the 
pease, but will be from 20 to 30 minutes — mash, and add i pint 
stock or water; cook together 2 tablespoons butter, and i of flour 
until smooth, but not brown ; add to the pease, and then add i cup 
cream and i of milk; season with salt and pepper, and let boil up 
once ; strain and serve ; i cup whipped cream added the last 
moment is an improvement. 

SPLIT-PEA SOUP. 

One large cup dried split pease, carefully washed and soaked over 
night in cold water, 2 teaspoons butter, i tablespoon flour, i salt- 
spoon each of salt, pepper and sugar, 2 quarts cold water ; put the 
soaked pease over the fire in the 2 quarts cold water, and let them 
come slowly to a boil ; simmer until the pease are dissolved, taking 
care not to let the liquid be reduced to less than 2 quarts; as it 
boils away, add water from the kettle to keep up the required 



SOUPS. 481 

quantity; when soft, rub through a colander and return to the fire. 
If it seems too thick, dilute to the proper consistency with milk or 
water ; bring to a boil and stir in the butter and flour, rubbed 
smooth together ; it is better to cook these for a few moments 
before putting them into the soup ; season to taste, and pour upon 
dice of fried bread laid in the tureen. 

POTATO SOUP. 

To I gallon water add 6 large potatoes chopped fine, i teacup 
rice, a lump butter size of an Qgg, i tablespoon flour. Work butter 
and flour together, and add i teacup sweet cream just before taking 
from the fire ; boil i hour. 

BROWNED POTATO SOUP. 

One dozen potatoes of fair size, j4 onion, sliced, 2 quarts boiling 
water, 2 tablespoons chopped parsley, 2 eggs beaten light, ^ cup 
milk, pepper, salt and cleared dripping for frying, i tablespoon 
butter. Heat the dripping in a round-bottomed sauce-pan and fry 
the potatoes and onion to a fine brown ; drain, drop them in the 
boiling water and cook soft ; rub through the colander back into 
the kettle with the water in which they were boiled ; add the pars- 
ley, stir to a bubbling boil and season with pepper and salt. Heat 
the milk in another sauce-pan, melt the butter in it, add the eggs, 
stir I minute ; take the soup-kettle from the fire, pour in the milk 
and eggs and serve at once. If the potatoes do not thicken the 
water to a puree, roll the butter in i tablespoon flour and stir 
directly into the soup-kettle instead of into the milk. 

TOMATO SOUP WITH RICE. 

Cut j4 onion into rather coarse slices, and fry them in a little 
hot butter in a satcU pan ; add to them i quart can, or 10 or 
II large tomatoes cut in pieces, after having skinned them, and 
also 2 sprigs of parsley; pass the tomato through a sieve. Put in 
the stew-pan butter the size of a pigeon's egg, and when it bubbles 
sprinkle in i teaspoon flour; Vv^hen it has cooked i minute stir in 

31 



482 SOUPS. 

the potato pulp ; season with pepper and salt. It is an improve- 
ment to add I cup or more stock ; however, if it is not at hand it 
may be omitted. Return the soup to the fire, and when quite hot 
add I cup fresh-boiled rice and ^ teaspoon soda. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

Cook I dozen tomatoes thoroughly and press them through a 
sieve (canned tomatoes may be used instead) ; add I teaspoon 
soda to I quart pulp. Put a bit of butter the size of an egg into a 
sauce-pan, and when it bubbles stir in i heaping teaspoon flour; 
when the flour has cooked add i pint hot milk, a little cayenne 
pepper, salt and i handful cracker-crumbs. When it boils add the 
tomato, heat thoroughly, without boiling, and serve at once. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Three onions, 3 carrots, 3 turnips, i small cabbage, i pint 
tomatoes : chop all the vegetables except the tomatoes very fine ; 
have ready in a porcelain kettle 3 quarts boiling water, put in all 
except cabbage and tomatoes and simmer for }4 hour, then add the 
chopped cabbage and tomatoes (the tomatoes previously stewed), 
also a bunch of sweet herbs ; let soup boil for 20 minutes, strain 
through sieve, rubbing all the vegetables through ; take 2 table- 
spoons best butter and i of flour and beat to a cream ; now 
pepper and salt soup to taste, and add i teaspoon white sugar, j4 
cup sweet cream if you have it, and last stir in the butter and flour; 
let it boil up and it is ready for the table. Serve with fried bread- 
chips, or poached eggs, i in each dish. 

WHITE SOUP WITHOUT MEAT. 

One quart milk, i large onion, i turnip, i head of celery, 2 bay. 
leaves, i bunch parsley, 6 whole peppers, i egg, 1 ounce butter, 
I tablespoon flour ; boil onion, turnips, celery, parsley, bay-leaves, 
and whole peppers in i quart water for 8 hours, when it should be 
reduced to ^ pint ; strain it and season with salt ; rub the flour 
into the butter, and thicken the soup, stirring till it boils; add the 
milk, let it boil again, and pour over the beaten egg, stirring well. 



CHA.PTKR XXI. 



VEGETABLES. 

All green vegetables must be washed thoroughly in cold water, 
and dropped into water which has been salted and is just begin- 
ning to boil; there should be i tablespoon salt for every 2 quarts 
water; if the water boils a long time before the vegetables are put 
in, it loses all its gases, and the mineral ingredients are deposited on 
the bottom and sides of the kettle, so that the water is fiat and 
tasteless ; the vegetables will not look green, nor have a fine flavor ; 
the time of boiling green vegetables depends very much upon the 
age, and how long they have been gathered ; the younger and more 
freshly gathered, the more quickly they are cooked. The follow- 
ing is a time table for cooking: 

Potatoes, boiled 30 minutes. 

Potatoes, baked 45 minutes. 

Sweet Potatoes, boiled 45 minutes. 

Sweet Potatoes, baked i hour. 

Squash, boiled 25 minutes. 

Squash, baked 45 minutes. 

Green Pease, boiled 20 to 40 minutes. 

Shell Beans, boiled i hour. 

String Beans, boiled. i to 2 hours. 

Green Corn 25 minutes to i hour. 

Asparagus 15 to 30 minutes. 

Spinach i to 2 hours. 

Tomatoes, fresh i hour. 

Tomatoes, canned 30 minutes. 

Cabbage 45 minutes to 2 hours. 

Cauliflower i to 2 hours. 

Dandelions 2 to 3 hours. 

Beet Greens i hour. 

Onions i to 2 hours. 

Beets I to 5 hours. 

Turnips, white 45 minutes to i hour. 

Turnips, yellow i 1.2 to 2 hours. 

Parsnips i to 2 hours. 

Carrots i to 2 hours. 

483 



484 VEGETABLES. 

Nearly all these vegetables are eaten dressed with salt, pepper, 
and butter, but sometimes a small piece of lean pork is boiled with 
them, and seasons them sufficiently. 

ARTICHOKES (JERUSALEM), FRIED. 

Pare and cut the artichokes into slices about 1-8 inch in thick-- 
ness, and fry them in sufficient boilins: oil or lard for them to swim 
in until they are a rich brown ; strew a little salt over them, pile 
high on a dish, and send to the table hot ; they may also be peeled 
and cut pear-shaped and stewed in a little salt water, to which a 
little butter has been added, and used as a garnish for a dish of 
mashed potatoes. 

ASPARAGUS WITH CREAM DRESSING. 

Tie the stalks in bunches, keeping the heads one way, and cut 
the stalks so as to be of equal length ; put them in well-salted 
water, and cook until tender; have ready thin slices of toast, 
arrange the asparagus when well drained neatly upon it and pour 
over white sauce, made with i tablespoon butter melted, and thick- 
ened with flour, in which is stirred i egg, 2 teacups cream, with 
pepper and salt, and all cooked until perfectly smooth. 

Asparagus is dehcious if a piece of tender lamb is cooked with 
it; or it may be boiled in stock made of the bones and remains of 
a chicken ; serve with thin slices of toast ; after you are tired of 
having it plain, it will appear almost like a new dish, and be eaten 
with rehsh if cooked in this way. 

ASPARAGUS, FRICASSEED. 

Wash 25 heads asparagus, cut off the tender portion, and lay 
them into cold water until they are required ; drain them and chop 
them with i young head lettuce, ^ head endive, and i small onion; 
put a piece of butter the size of i egg into a sauce-pan, melt it, 
then mix with it smoothly i dessertspoon flour, and Yz pint stock; 
add the chopped vegetables, with pepper and salt, and let all stew 
gently until the sauce is thick and good ; serve hot. Time to stew, 
J^ hour. 



VEGETABLES. 485 

ASPARAGUS WITH EGGS. 

Boil I bunch asparagus 20 minutes; cut off the tender tops 
and lay in a deep pie-plate, buttering, salting and peppering well ; 
beat 4 eggs just enough to break up the yolks, add i tablespoon 
melted butter, with pepper and salt, and pour upon the asparagus ; 
bake 8 minutes in a quick oven, and serve. 

EGG BROCCOLI. 

Take ^ dozen heads broccoli, cut off the small shoots or blos- 
soms, and lay them aside for frying; trim the stalks short, and pare 
off the rough rind up to the head; wash them well, and lay them 
in salt water for i hour; then put them into plenty of boiling 
water, salted, and let them boil fast till quite tender ; put 2 ounces 
butter into a sauce-pan, and stir it over a slow fire till it is melted; 
then add gradually 6 or 8 well-beaten eggs, and stir the mixture 
until it is thick and smooth ; lay the broccoli in the center of a 
large dish, pour the egg around it, and having fried the broccoli 
blossoms, arrange them in a circle near the edge of the dish. 

BEETS AND POTATOES. 

One of the most delicious ways to serve these early vegetables 
is this : Take new potatoes and young beets, boil until done in sep- 
arate kettles, then slice into the dish in which they are to be put on 
the table ; first put a layer of potatoes, sprinkled with pepper and 
salt and little lumps of butter, then a layer of beets, treated in the 
same way, and so on until the dish is full, then pour over all a very 
little sweet cream or milk. If preferred in place of the milk use 1 
cup vinegar. 

BEETS PREPARED AS A VEGETABLE. 

Boil I hour in salted water; rub off the skins with a cloth, 
slice, pepper and butter, or cover with drawn butter, and serve 
while hot. 

BEETS AS A RELISH. 

Boil I hour, skin, cut into slices, and serve with salt, pepper and 
enough vinegar to cover them. 



486 VEGETABLES. 

BEET GREENS. 

Young beets — roots and tops — make choice greens ; wash care- 
fully, removing any withered leaves, and boil in salted water for i 
hour; press out the water in a colander, sprinkle with pepper, place 
lumps of butter on top, and set in a hot oven i minute before 
serving. 

BEET rUDDING. 

Beets are familiar enough boiled and sliced, either served hot 
with butter, pepper and salt, or pickled, but a novelty is a beet 
pudding, made by mixing i pint cooked sugar beets, chopped, with 
4 eggs, I quart milk, a little salt and pepper, i tablespoon butter, 
and baking them about Yz hour. 

BEANS IN GRAVY. 

Put in the frying-pan i ounce butter, ^ teaspoon dry flour, and 
I teaspoon minced onion ; brown slightly, and add ^ pint beef 
gravy or rich soup stock; add the necessary salt and pepper; now 
add I quart cold boiled beans ; simmer long enough to heat them 
thoroughly; add a squeeze of lemon-juice, and they are ready for 
the table. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Pick over and wash the beans, and soak them over night ; in the 
morning parboil them, then put them in a bean-pot, or any small- 
necked earthen jar, with sufficient cold water to cover them, to 
which add i or 2 tablespoons molasses, and salt and pepper to 
taste. Have ready ^ pound pickled pork for each quart of beans, 
parboiled and scored ; put it in the center of the dish and bake in 
a moderate oven for I2 hours; add water as often as ^necessary. If 
objectionable the pork may be omitted and butter used in its stead, 
only a little will be required, just enough to season the beans. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Shell, wash and put into boiling water with a little salt; when 
boiled tender, drain and season them, and either dress with cream 
or large lump of butter, and let simmer for a few moments. 



VEGETABLES. 487 

PORK AND BEANS. 

See ''Meats:' 

STRING BEANS, SAUTE. 

String tender beans and cut them into inch lengths ; cook in 
slightly salted boiling water for ^ hour ; drain them and put them in a 
deep frying-pan with i large tablespoon butter, i teacup cream or 
milk with a little thickening of flour, and salt and pepper ; toss 
and shake 5 minutes over a hot fire, and serve. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Pick, trim and wash a number of sprouts ; put them into plenty 
of fast-boiling water ; add i tablespoon salt, keep the sauce-pan 
uncovered and boil very fast for 15 minutes; drain as soon as done 
and serve with melted butter. 

CARROTS. 

This vegetable should be served with boiled beef ; when the 
carrots are young they should be washed and rubbed, not scraped, 
before cooking, then rubbed with a clean, coarse cloth after boiling. 
Young carrots need to be cooked about Yz hour, and full grown 
ones from ij4 to 2 hours. They are excellent for flavoring, and 
contain a great amount of nourishment. 

CARROTS BOILED. 

Wash and prepare the carrots ; throw them into plenty of boil- 
ing water and with salt ; keep them boiling till tender, and serve 
with melted butter ; or they may be boiled with beef and a few 
placed round the dish to garnish, and the rest sent to table in a 
tureen. 

STEWED CARROTS. 

Scrape and boil whole 45 minutes ; drain and cut into round 
slices ^ inch thick ; put on a cup of weak broth — a little soup if 
you have it— and cook ^ hour; then add 3 or 4 tablespoons milk, 
a lump of butter rolled in flour, with seasoning to taste ; boil up 
and dish. 



488 VEGETABLES. 

BOILED CABBAGE. 

Cut off the stalk, remove the faded and outer leaves, and halve, 
or, if large, quarter the cabbages ; wash them thoroughly and lay 
them for a few minutes in water, to which i tablespoon vinegar 
has been added, to draw out any insects that inay be lodging under 
the leaves ; drain them in a colander ; have ready a large pan of 
boiling hot water, with i tablespoon salt and a small piece of 
soda in it, and let the cabbage boil quickly until tender, leaving 
the sauce-pan uncovered; take them up as soon as they are done, 
drain them thoroughly and serve. Time to boil: young summer 
cabbage, from lo to 15 minutes; large cabbage, yi hour or more. 

BAKED CABBAGE. 

Cook as for boiled cabbage, after which drain and set aside 
until cold ; chop fine, add 2 beaten eggs, i tablespoon butter, 
pepper, salt, 3 tablespoons rich cream ; stir well and bake in a 
buttered dish until brown. Eat hot. 

CREAMED CABBAGE. 
Slice as for cold-slaw and stew in a covered sauce-pan till tender ; 
drain it, return to sauce-pan, add i gill or more rich cream, i 
ounce butter, pepper and salt to taste; let simmer 2 or 3 min- 
utes, then serve ; milk may be used by adding a little more butter ; 
or have a deep spider hot, put in sliced cabbage, pour quickly over 
it I pint boiling water, cover close and cook for 10 minutes, then 
pour off water and add ^ pint rich milk; when the milk boils, stir 
in I teaspoon flour moistened with a little milk, season, cook a 
moment, and serve. 

MINCED CABBAGE. 

Drain boiled cabbage in the colander; put it in the chopping- 
tray and chop fine; for each quart of the chopped cabbage, put 2 
tablespoons butter and i of flour in the frying-pan ; as soon as 
smooth and hot, put in the cabbage, which season well with salt, 
pepper, and, if you like it, 2 tablespoons vinegar; stir constantly 
for 5 or 8 minutes; when done, heap on a dish ; make smooth with 
a knife, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs. 



VEGETABLES. 489 



STUFFED CABBAGE. 

Take a fresh cabbage and remove the center; fill the cavity 
with a stuffing made of cooked veal or chicken, chopped very fine, 
seasoned very highly, and rolled into balls with yolk of egg ; tie 
the cabbage firmly together and boil about 2 hours. 

COLD SLAW. 

Sprinkle i quart finely-chopped cabbage with salt, and let it 
stand I hour ; drain off the brine into a sauce-pan ; pour in ^ pint 
strong vinegar, a piece of butter, size of a hickory-nut, i teaspoon 
strong mustard — after it has been stirred with water, and ^ tea- 
spoon pepper; when it boils stir in 2 well-beaten eggs, and 3 table- 
spoons sweet cream ; pour hot on the cabbage, and have it cold 
when it is to be served. A very delicious relish with meats. 

CABBAGE A LA CAULIFLOWER. 

Cut the cabbage fine, as for slaw; put it into a stew-pan, cover 
with water, and keep closely covered ; when tender, drain off the 
water; put in a small piece of butter, with a pinch of salt, j4 cup 
cream, or i cup milk ; leave on the stove a few minutes before serving. 

CAULIFLOWER A LA FRANCAISE. 

Lay the vegetable, with its head downward, in cold salt and 
water for i hour before boiling it ; or, better still, in cold vinegar 
and water ; trim away the outer leaves, and cut the stalks quite 
close ; cut the cauliflower into quarters and put into a stew-pan. and 
boil until tender; drain and arrange it neatly on a dish; pour over 
it melted butter. 

CAULIFLOWER WITH STUFFING. 

Take a sauce-pan the exact size of the dish intended to be used; 
cleanse a large, firm, white cauliflower, and cut it into sprigs; throw 
these into boiling salt water for 2 minutes ; then take them out, 
drain, and pack them tightly with the heads downward, in the 
sauce-pan, the bottom of which must have been previously covered 



490 VEGETABLES. 

with thin shccs of bacon ; fill up the vacant spaces with a stuffing 
made of 3 tablespoons finely-minced veal, the same of beef suet, 4 
tablespoons bread-crumbs, a little pepper and salt, i teaspoon each 
of chopped parsley and minced chives, and i dozen small mush- 
rooms, chopped fine ; stew these ingredients over the cauliflowers 
in alternate layers, and pour over them 3 well-beaten eggs; when 
these are well soaked, add sufficient nicely-flavored stock to cover 
the whole ; simmer gently till the cauliflowers are tender, and the 
sauce very much reduced ; then turn the contents of the sauce-pan 
upside down on a hot dish, and the cauliflowers will be found 
standing in a savory mixture. 

CAULIFLOWER WITH SAUCE. 

Boil a large cauliflower, tied in netting, in hot salted water, 
from 25 to 30 minutes; drain, serve in a deep dish with the flower 
upward and pour over it i cup drawn butter in which has been 
stirred the juice of i lemon and ^ teaspoon French mustard, 
mixed up well with the sauce. 

ESCALOPED CAULIFLOWER. 

Cook the cauliflower i hour in salt and water; drain, and break 
apart ; put a layer of the cauliflower in an escalop-dish, moisten it 
with Bechamel or cream sauce, and sprinkle in a little grated cheese ; 
put in another layer of cauliflower, and continue, as directed before, 
until all of the vegetable is used ; there should be 2 tablespoons of 
grated cheese and i pint sauce to each head of cauliflower; cover 
with bread-crumbs and cheese, and dot with bits of butter. Bake 
i^ hour in a moderate oven. 

CELERY. 

Wash, trim and scrape the stalks, selecting those that are white 
and tender ; crisp by leaving in ice-cold water until they are wanted 
for the table ; arrange neatly in a celery-glass ; pass between the 
oysters and the meat. 



VEGETABLES. 49I 

FRIED CELERY. 

Boil the celery entire until tender; drain it, divide into small 
pieces and fry in dripping until lightly browned ; garnish the dish 
prettily with parsley. 

STEWED CELERY. 

Clean the heads thoroughly ; take off the coarse, green, outer 
leaves; cut in small pieces, and stew in a little broth ; when tender, 
add some rich cream, a little flour, and butter enough to thicken 
the cream ; season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg if that is 
agreeable. 

CORN, FOR WINTER USE. 

Cut the corn from the cob, raw, before it gets too hard ; to 
each gallon of cut corn add 2 scant cups salt ; pack tightly in a jar 
— don't be afraid of getting the jar too large — cover with a white 
cloth, put a heavy weight to keep the corn under the brine, which 
soon forms ; now the most important part is to wash the cloth 
every morning for 2 weeks, or the corn will taste queerly ; if the 
corn is too salty, freshen before cooking; this is as good as canned 
corn, and is much easier put up. Corn should be fresh in order to 
be good, and should be cooked as quickly as possible after being 
gathered, as it heats and loses much of its flavor. 

BAKED CORN. 

Grate i dozen ears sweet corn; i cup milk, small piece butter; 
salt, and bake in pudding-dish i hour. 

GREEN CORN ON THE COB. 

Take off the outside leaves and the silk, letting the innermost 
leaves remain on until after the corn is boiled, which renders the 
corn much sweeter ; boil for ^ hour in plenty of water, drain, and 
after removing the leaves, serve. 

.CORN CUSTARD. 

Cut corn from the cob, mix it with milk, not too thin, 2 or 3 
eggs, pepper and salt; bake ^ hour; serve as a vegetable. 



492 VEGETABLES. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Eight ears sweet corn, grated, 2 cups milk, 3 eggs, salt and 
pepper, flour enough to make a batter; put i tablespoon butter 
into a frying-pan, and drop the mixture into the hot butter, i 
spoonful in a place; brown on both sides; serve hot for breakfast, 
or as a side-dish for dinner. 

STEWED CORN. 

Stew I quart canned corn in its own liquor, setting the vessel 
containing it in an outer one of hot water; should the corn be dry. 
add a little cold water; when tender pour in enough milk to covei 
the corn, bring to a boil, and put in i tablespoon butter rolled in 
flour, and salt to taste; stew gently, stirring well 3 or 4 minutes, 
and turn into a deep dish ; keep the vessel containing the corn 
closely covered while it is cooking; the steam facilitates the process 
and preserves the color of the corn. 

SLICED CUCUMBERS. 

Be sure that your cucumbers are perfectly fresh ; peel them and lay 
in ice-water i hour before dinner; slice them, and serve with bits of 
ice laid among them ; just before eating, season with pepper, salt, 
oil and vinegar; a great many people always wish a couple of 
young onions sliced with the cucumbers. 

FRIED CUCUMBERS. 

Peel, slice lengthwise and lay in cold water, a little salt, for I 
hour; take out, wipe dry, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and flour 
well ; fry in nice dripping to a light brown, and drain well in a hot 
colander. 

STEWED CUCUMBERS. 

Cut the cucumbers fully ^ inch thick right through; put them 
in a sauce-pan, just covering them with hot water, and let them 
boil slowly for }^ hour, or until tender, but not so as to break 
them ; then drain them ; you want now i pint good cream, and put 
your cream, with i teaspoon butter, in a sauce-pan, and when it is 



VEGETABLES. 



493 



warm put in the cucumbers; season with a httle salt and white 
pepper, cook 5 minutes, shaking the sauce-pan all the time, and 
serve hot; it is just as delicate as asparagus, and a very nice dish 
indeed. 

DANDELIONS. 

Take i peck of dandelion leaves, wash in several waters, let lay- 
in cold water ^ hour; put on to cook in boiling water; boil 10 
minutes, pour off the water and cover with fresh boiling water with 
salt, boil I hour, drain and press out the water; put in a sauce-pan 
and set on the stove ; season with butter, salt and pepper ; take up 
in a hot dish, garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs ; serve with 
vinegar. 

ENDIVE STEWED. 

Strip off the outer green leaves from the heads of endive; wash 
thoroughly, soak in salted water to dislodge the insects; then drain 
and boil for 25 minutes in water salted slightly ; have ready a stew- 
pan with I ounce butter, drain the endive and put it into the pan 
and add i saltspoon salt, pepper, and i gill of cream ; serve hot. 

EGG PLANT. 

Pare and cut in slices Yz an inch thick, sprinkle with salt, cover 
and let stand for i hour; rinse in clear cold water, wipe each 
slice dry, dip first in beaten egg, then in rolled cracker or bread 
crumbs, season with pepper and salt, and fry brown in butter. 

BAKED EGG PLANT. 

Peel the &^^ plant, boil until done, then pour off the water, 
mash fine, add pepper, salt and butter to taste; put in a shallow 
pudding-pan, and over the top place a thick layer of crushed 
cracker; bake yi hour in a moderate oven. 

FRICASSEED EGG PLANT. 

Having peeled and sliced the egg plants, boil them in water with 
I saltspoon salt, until they are thoroughly cooked. Drain off the 
v/ater, pour in sufficient milk to cover the slices, and add a few bits 



494 



VEGETABLES. 



of butter rolled in flour ; let it simmer gently, shaking the pan over 
the fire till the sauce is thick, and stir in the beaten yolks of 2 or 3 
eggs just before it is served. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT. 

Parboil them to take off their bitterness, then slit each one 
down the side and extract the seeds ; have ready a stufifing made of 
grated bread-crumbs, butter, minced sweet herbs, salt, pepper, nut- 
meg and beaten yolk of egg; fill with it the cavity whence you 
took the seeds and bake ; serve them up with a made gravy poured 
into the dish. 

GARLIC. 

Garlic requires to be used most judiciously, or it will spoil what- 
ever is cooked with it ; if used carefully, however, it will impart a 
most delicious flavor to salads and sauces, but it is so strong that, 
for many dishes, all that is necessary is to rub the dish which is to 
be sent to table sharply round with a slice of it; or, better still, to 
rub it on a crust of bread, and put the bread into the soup, etc., for 
a few minutes. A very general prejudice exists against garlic, 
probably on account of its being used in the same way as an onion. 
If it is desired to diminish the strength of the flavor, this may be 
done by boiling the garlic in 2 or 3 waters. 

GREENS, STEWED. 

Take a bunch of fresh greens, wash in several waters ; drain them 
well and throw them into plenty of fast boiling water, salted and 
skimmed, and boil them for 10 minutes; take them up, press the 
water from them, and throw them into cold water for ^ hour ; 
drain them, cover with stock, and add i bunch herbs, I onion, I 
clove, I slice fat bacon, and a little pepper and salt ; stew very 
gently until tender. Serve with mutton, lamb, or veal. 

HORSE-RADISH AS GARNISH. 

Wash and scrub the horse-radish thoroughly; let it lie for i hour 
in cold water ; then scrape it very finely with a sharp knife ; arrange 



VEGETABLES. 495 

it in little bunches around the dish, or, if there is gravy with the 
meat, put it in a small glass dish near the carver.- 

LETTUCE. 

Pick over the leaves carefully and throw them into cold water 
15 minutes before sending to the table; when they are nice and 
crisp remove them from the water to a clean cloth, fold the cloth 
over and wring it, then pull the leaves apart with the fingers, or, 
bunching it in the left hand, slice it down with a knife in the right 
hand; it should never be chopped, as that will turn it black; serve 
with pepper, salt and vinegar, with sugar and vinegar, or with may- 
onnaise dressing according to the individual taste to be pleased. 

LETTUCE, STUFFED. 

Wash 4 or 5 large heads of lettuce, boil them in plenty of salt 
and water for 15 minutes, throw them at once into cold water, and 
afterwards let them drain ; open them, fill them with good veal 
forcemeat, tie the ends securely, and put them into a stew-pan with 
as much good gravy as will cover them, i teaspoon salt, ^ tea- 
spoon pepper, and i teaspoon vinegar ; simmer gently for another 
15 minutes, remove the strings, place them on a hot dish, and pour 
the gravy around them. 

WILTED LETTUCE. 

A novel way to serve lettuce is, after washing and looking over 
carefully, to pour a dressing over it made by frying out the fat 
from a slice of ham, cutting the ham in small pieces before frying; 
when the fat is at the boiling point add i cup vinegar, let it boil 
for I or 2 minutes, then pour over the lettuce ; garnish with cold 
boiled eggs cut in rings. 

PLAIN BOILED MACARONI. 

Two quarts boiling water, i tablespoon salt, and 12 sticks 
macaroni ; break and wash the macaroni, throw it into the salt and 
water, and boil rapidly for 25 minutes; pour off the water, season 
with salt, pepper and butter, and serve. 



496 VEGETABLES. 

MACARONI IN GRAVY. 

Twelve sticks macaroni, i}4 pints stock, i scant tablespoon 
flour, I generous tablespoon butter, salt, pepper; break and wash 
the macaroni ; put it in a sauce-pan with the stock ; cover and sim- 
mer }4 hour ; mix the butter and flour together ; stir this and the 
seasoning in with the macaroni; simmer 10 minutes longer and 
serve. A tablespoon of grated cheese may be added. 

BAKED MACARONI. 

. Twelve sticks macaroni, broken in small pieces ; boil in slightly 
salted water about 20 minutes ; drain and put a layer into a greased 
pudding-dish ; add pepper, salt and bits of butter, then sprinkle 
with grated bread- and cheese-crumbs, and so continue until the 
dish is filled, making the top layer of cheese thicker than the 
previous ones ; pour over all a cup of milk and bake until brown. 

MACARONI A L'ITALIENNE. 

Twelve sticks macaroni {}^ pound), }i pint milk, 2 tablespoons 
cream, 2 of butter, i of flour, some salt, white pepper, and cayenne, 
and }{ pound cheese ; break and wash the macaroni, and boil it 
rapidly for 20 minutes in 2 quarts water ; put the milk on in the 
double boiler; mix the butter and flour together, and stir into the 
boiling milk ; add the seasoning, cream, and cheese ; drain and dish 
the macaroni ; pour the sauce over it, and serve immediately ; i 
tablespoon mustard can be stirred into the sauce if you like. If the 
sauce and macaroni are allowed to stand long after they are put 
together, the dish will be spoiled. If they cannot be served 
immediately, keep both hot in separate dishes. 

MACARONI AS A VEGETABLE. 

Simmer j4 pound macaroni in plenty of water till tender, but 
not broken; strain off the water; take the yolks of 5 and the 
whites of 2 eggs, }4 pint cream, white meat and ham chopped very 
fine, 3 spoons grated cheese; season with salt and pepper; heat all 
together, stirring constantly; mix with the macaroni; put into a 
buttered mold and steam i hour. 



VEGETABLES. 497 

MACARONI WITH OYSTERS. 

Boil macaroni in salt water, after which draw through a colander ; 
take a deep earthen dish or tin ; put in alternate layers of macaroni 
and oysters; sprinkle the layers of macaroni with grated cheese; 
bake until brown. 

MACARONI WITH TOMATOES. 

Boil y^ pound macaroni till tender, pour off all the water, then 
add Yz cup sweet cream, )^ cup butter, pepper and salt ; let simmer 
for a short time, but be careful that it does not become much 
broken ; turn into vegetable dish ; have ready i pint stewed 
tomatoes, season with butter, salt and pepper, and pour over the 
macaroni. 

STEWED MACARONI. 

Boil 2 ounces macaroni in water and drain well ; put into a 
saucepan i ounce butter, mix with I tablespoon flour, moisten with 
4 tablespoons veal or beef stock, I gill cream, salt and white pepper 
to taste; put in the macaroni, let it boil up, and serve while hot. 

BAKED ONIONS. 

Boil in salted water ^ hour ; hft out in a drain-spoon carefully 
and lay them closely together in a baking-pan ; salt and pepper, 
also y^ teaspoon butter should be put on each onion ; bake in a 
hot oven ^ hour, when they should be both tender and browned ; 
take out without crushing and serve hot. 

Wash but do not peel the onions ; boil i hour in boiling water, 
slightly salt, changing the water twice in the time ; when tender, 
drain on a cloth, and roll each in buttered tissue paper, twisted at 
the top, and bake i hour in a slow oven ; peel and brown them ; 
serve with melted butter. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Skin them thoroughly ; put them to boil ; when they have boiled 
a few minutes, pour off the water and add clean cold water, and 
set them to boil again ; pour this away, and add more cold water, 
when they may boil till done ; this will make them white and clear 



498 VEGETABLES. 

and very mild in flavor ; after they are done, pour off all the water, 
and dress with a little cream ; salt and pepper to taste. 

Boil in 2 waters, drain, and if they are large, cut into quarters 
pour over them i cup scalding milk in which a pinch of soda has 
been stirred ; set over the fir«, add i tablespoon butter, ^ tea- 
spoon corn-starch wet with milk, a little minced parsley, with pep- 
per and salt ; simmer and pour out. 

ONION ORMOLOO. 

Peel 10 or I2 large white onions, steep them i hour in cold 
water, then boil them soft ; mash them with an equal quantity of 
boiled white potatoes, adding ]4 pint milk and 2 or 3 well-beaten 
eggs ; stir the mixture very hard, season it with nutmeg, pepper 
and salt, and bake it in a quick oven; when ^ done pour a Httle 
melted butter or gravy over the top. 

SCALLOPED ONIONS. 

Boil till tender 6 large onions; afterward separate them with a 
large spoon ; then place a layer of onions and a layer of grated 
bread-crumbs alternately in a pudding-dish ; season with pepper 
and salt to taste; moisten with milk; put into the oven to brown. 

BOILED OKRA. 

Put the young and tender pods of long, white okra into salted 
boiling water in a porcelain or tin-lined sauce-pan, as iron discolors 
it; boil 15 minutes, take off stems, and serve with butter, pepper, 
salt and vinegar, if preferred ; or, after boiling, slice in rings, season 
with butter, dip in batter, and fry ; season and serve ; or stew an 
equal quantity of tomatoes and tender sliced okra, and i or 2 
sliced green peppers ; stew in porcelain kettle 15 or 20 minutes, 
season with butter, pepper and salt, and serve. 

STEWED OYSTER PLANT, OR SALSIFY. 

Scrape the roots, and cut into inch lengths, dropping into cold 
water to prevent discoloration ; put on in hot water, and stew until 



VEGETABLES. 499 

tender; drain nearly dry and cover with hot milk; simmer about lo 
minutes, and thicken with I teaspoon butter rolled in flour; salt 
and pepper to taste. 

VEGETABLE OYSTER CAKES. 

One bunch oysters; boil and mash ; i pint sour milk, ^ teaspoon 
soda, flour to make a batter; add 2 eggs, beaten, and the oysters; 
fry in hot lard ; drop in spoonfuls. 

MOCK STEWED OYSTERS. 

One bunch oyster plant, 8 teaspoons butter, a little flour or 
corn-starch, vinegar and water for boiling, pepper and salt, ^ cup 
milk ; wash and scrape the oyster plant very carefully ; drop into 
weak vinegar and water, bring quickly to a boil, and cook lo 
minutes; turn off the vinegar water, rinse the salsify in boiling 
water, throw this out and cover with more from the teakettle ; 
stew gently lo minutes longer, add pepper and salt and 2 table- 
spoons butter; stew in this until tender; meanwhile heat in a 
farina-kettle the milk, thicken, add the remaining butter, and keep 
dry until the salsify is done, then transfer it to this sauce; pepper 
and salt ; let all lie together in the inner kettle, the water in the 
outer at a slow boil, for 5 minutes; pour into a covered dish. 

CRISP PARSLEY, 

This is used for garnishing dishes. Pick and wash young pars- 
ley, shake it in a cloth to dry it thoroughly, and spread it on a sheet 
of clean paper and put it in the oven. Turn the bunches frequently 
until they are quite crisp. Parsley is much more easily crisped than 
fried. 

TO FRY PARSLEY. 

Wash the parsley and wipe dry ; put in the frying-basket and 
plunge into boiUng fat for ^ minute. 

PARSNIPS. 

Parsnips may be dressed in the same way as carrots, which they 
very much resemble. When boiled, they are generally served with 



500 VEGETABLES. 

boiled meat, or boiled salt fish ; when fried, with roast mutton. If 
young, they require only to be washed and scraped before they are 
boiled ; if old and large, the skin must be pared off, and the roots 
cut into quarters. Carrots and parsnips are often sent to the table 
together. It should be remembered that parsnips are more quickly 
boiled than carrots. 

FRIED PARSNIPS. 

Boil until tender in hot water slightly salted; let them get 
almost cold, scrape off the skin, and cut in thick, long slices ; dredge 
with flour and fry in hot dripping, turning as they brown ; drain 
very dry in a hot colander ; pepper and salt to serve. 

PARSNIP OYSTERS. 

Three grated parsnips, 3 eggs, i teaspoon salt, i teacup sweet 
cream, butter ^ size of egg, 3 tablespoons flour; fry as pancakes ; 
salsify may be used in place of parsnips. 

PARSNIP STEW. 

Three slices salt pork, boil i}4 hours; scrape 5 large parsnips, 
cut in quarters lengthwise, add to the pork and let boil }4 hour; 
then add a few potatoes, and let all boil together until the potatoes 
are soft ; the fluid in the kettle should be about i cup when ready 
to take off. 

CANNED PEASE. 

Open a can of pease i hour before cooking them, that there may 
be no musty, airless taste about them, and turn into a bowl ; when 
ready for them, put on in a farina-kettle, or in one sauce-pan within 
another of hot water. If dry, add cold water to cover them, and 
stew about 25 minutes; drain, stir in a generous lump of butter; 
pepper and salt. 

FRENCH WAY OF COOKING PEASE. 

Put your pease in a nice dish, where they will not turn black in 
cooking ; cut up fine i small head of lettuce ; put in a few sprigs of 



VEGETABLES. 5OI 

parsley, tied up ; salt and pepper ; enough water to cover the pease; 
cook gently until tender 1^4 hours, then drain off most of the 
water; dissolve i full teaspoon flour in water and stir in; add ^ 
tablespoon butter, ^ cup milk and i lump sugar; cook about 
10 minutes; just before serving stir in yolk of i egg, previousl)' 
beaten with a little water. 

FRENCH WAY OF COOKING PEASE, NO. 2. 

Put some thin slices of bacon in a skillet and brown a little on 
both sides; then put in your pease, with i large onion quartered, i 
head lettuce, and a few sprigs parsley, tied up, water enough to 
cover them ; salt and pepper (not much salt, as the bacon salts 
them); cook i hour ; ten minutes before serving sprinkle a little 
flour to thicken the gravy ; remove the bunch of lettuce and 
parsley. 

GREEN PEASE. 

Boil I quart young, freshly-gathered pease in slightly-salted 
water until they are tender ; then drain them in a colander; melt 
2 ounces fresh butter over the fire, mix smoothly with a dessert- 
spoon flour, and add very gradually i cup thick cream, or, failing 
this, use new milk ; when the sauce boils, put in the pease, stir 
them until they are quite hot, and serve immediately. 

SCOTCH PEASE BROSE. 

Put 2 large tablespoons pea-meal into a bowl, add salt and a 
bit butter, then boiling water, making the brose stiff enough for the 
spoon to stand in, and serve immediately with i glass fresh milk. 

BAKED POTATO BALLS. 

Form cold mashed potato into balls with the hands, having first 
seasoned and beaten up an egg in it ; roll the balls in flour, lay in a 
well-greased pan and bake to a good brown. 

POTATO BALLS. 

Boil so:n'" potatoes very dry ; mash them as smoothly as possi- 
ble ; season with salt and pepper ; warm them, with i ounce butter 



502 VEGETABLES. 

to I pound potatoes, and a few spoons good cream ; let them cool 
a little, roll them into balls; sprinkle over them some crushed 
vermicelli or macaroni, and fry them a light brown. 

BROWNED rOTATOES. 

While the meat is roasting, and i hour before it is served, boil 
the potatoes and take off their skins; flour them well, and put them 
under the meat, taking care to dry them from the drippings before 
they are sent to the table ; kidney potatoes are best dressed in this 
way; the flouring is very essential; they should always be boiled a 
little before being put into stews, as the first water in which they 
are cooked is thought to be of a poisonous quahty ; potatoes when 
boiled, if old, should be peeled and put whole upon the gridiron 
until nicely browned. 

POTATOES A LA BECHAMEL. 

Steam a dozen potatoes, peel and cut in slices, place in a heated 
dish, and pour over sauce, to make which melt i tablespoon butter, 
thicken with flour, mix well, add i teacup each of cream and soup 
stock; let boil; take from the fire; season with salt and pepper, 
and stir in the yolk of an egg well beaten. 

BROILED POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into slices }^ inch thick ; dip them into 
melted butter and fine bread crumbs, place them in a double broiler 
and broil over a fire that is not too hot; ganvsh with parsley and 
serve on a hot dish ; season with salt and pepper, toast till a deli- 
cate brown, arrange on a hot dish and season with butter. 

POTATOES AND CORN. 

Cut the cold corn left from yesterday from the cob, and mix it 
with an equal amount of cold boiled potatoes, chopped ; heat a 
spoon of dripping in a frying-pan, stir the corn and potatoes about 
in it until they are smoking hot, and send to table in a deep dish. 



VEGETABLES. 503 

POTATOES A LA CREME. 

One pound potatoes, 2 ounces butter, i gill cream, i table- 
spoon parsley, i tablespoon flour. Boil and cut the potatoes in 
slices; stir the butter and flour together over the fire till they form 
a paste ; chop the parsley, and add with the cream, salt and pepper, 
and mix thoroughly ; put in the potatoes and warm all together. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Take 6 boiled potatoes, pass them through a sieve ; add to them 
3 tablespoons ham grated or minced finely, a little grated nutmeg, 
pepper and salt to taste, and some chopped parsley ; work into this 
mixture the yolks of 3 or 4 eggs, then fashion it into the shape of 
balls, roll them in bread-crumbs, fry in hot lard, and serve with 
fried parsley. 

POTATO CHOWDER. 

Take 6 large potatoes, i onion, i quart milk, i tablespoon 
butter, 2 ounces salt pork, and i egg ; cut the pork in small pieces 
and fry; add the potatoes and i onion sliced; cover with boiling 
water, and cook until potatoes are tender; add the milk scalded, 
and the seasoning, and lastly the egg, beaten light. 

DUCHESS POTATOES. 

Boil j4 dozen potatoes, pass them through a sieve, and work 
into the bowl with i gill cream, and the yolks of 8 eggs, pepper, 
salt, a trifle of nutmeg, and some finely-grated parsley; mix them 
smooth, mold into round balls, cover with dried bread-crumbs, fry 
in hot lard, or lard and butter mixed, rolling them around so that 
they will brown evenly ; serve hot. 

DUCHESS POTATOES, NO. 2. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into cubes ; season well with salt and 
pepper, and dip in melted butter and lightly in flour; arrange 
them on a baking-sheet, and bake 15 minutes in a quick oven; serve 
verjf hot ; niee as a garnish. 



504 VEGETABLES. 

ESCALOPED POTATOES. 

Cut I quart cold boiled potatoes in very thin slices, and season 
well with salt and pepper; butter an escalop-dish ; cover the 
bottom with a layer of cream sauce, add a layer of the potatoes, 
sprinkle with chopped parsley, and moisten with sauce ; continue 
this until all the material is used ; have the last layer one of cream 
sauce; cover the dish with fine bread-crumbs, put i tablespoon 
butter in little bits on the top, and cook 20 minutes; it takes I 
pint sauce, i tablespoon parsley, ^ cup bread-crumbs, i teaspoon 
salt, and as much pepper as you like ; this dish can be varied by 
using I cup chopped ham with the potatoes; indeed, any kind of 
meat can be used. 

FRIED RAW POTATOES. 

Pare and thinly slice raw potatoes; let them stand in cold water 
^ hour; drain in a colander, and fry in melted butter; cover 
closely, but stir occasionally; season with salt and pepper. 

FRIED RAW POTATOES, NO. 2. 

Raw potatoes, peel, cut in rings the thickness of a shilling, or. 
cut in one continuous shaving; throw them into cold water until 
you have sufficient ; drain on a cloth ; fry quickly in plenty of hot 
fat, and with as little color as possible ; dry them well from the 
grease, and sprinkle with salt. When nicely done, and piled up 
properly, they make a fine side-dish, which is always eaten with 
great relish. Or cut a potato lengthwise the size and shape of the 
divisions of an orange, trim them neatly and fry them ; they are an 
excellent garnish for meat. 

Cold potatoes may be cut in slices somewhat less than I 
inch thick, and fried in like manner. They can also be fried with 
onions, as an accompaniment to pork chops, sliced cod, red herring, 
or with a rasher of bacon. 

BROWNED HASHED POTATOES. 

Pare and chop the potatoes rather fine, put them in a baking 
dish, season with salt, pepper and a liberal amount of butter and 



VEGETABLES. 505 

sufficient milk to just come to the top of the potatoes ; bake in a 
moderately quick oven 45 minutes ; serve in the dish in which they 
are baked. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

One quart cold boiled potatoes, cut into dice; 3 tablespoons 
butter, I of chopped onion, i of chopped parsley, salt, pepper. 
Season the potatoes with the salt and pepper ; fry the onions in the 
butter, and when they turn yellow add the potatoes ; stir with a 
fork, being careful not to break them ; when hot, add the parsley, 
and cook 2 minutes longer; serve immediately on a hot dish. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Steam or boil potatoes until soft, in salted water; pour off the 
water, and let them drain perfectly dry ; sprinkle with salt, and 
mash ; have ready some hot milk or cream, in which has been 
melted a small piece butter ; pour this on to the potatoes, and stir 
until white and very light. 

NEW POTATOES. 

Scrape off the skins, and boil or steam 10 or 15 minutes until 
tender ; then serve with butter, pepper, and salt, or with cream 
sauce (see " Sauces") 

NEW POTATOES AND GREEN PEASE. 

A very agreeable dish is prepared by simply boiling small new 
potatoes with green pease, and serving them together; the potatoes 
should be dropped in after the pease have been cooking 5 or 10 
minutes. 

OLD POTATOES. 

These can be made to look like young ones in this way: Wash 
some large ones, and cut them into as many small slices as will fill a 
dish ; boil them in 2 or 3 waters about 3 minutes each time, the water 
being put to them cold; then let them steam until tender; pour a 
white sauce over them. Potatoes prepared in this way have been 
mistaken for young ones. 




506 VEGETABLES. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Take 2 cups cold mashed potato, and stir into it 2 tablespoons 
melted bntter, beating to a white cream before adding anything 
else; then put with this 2 eggs whipped very light and i cup cream 
or milk, salting to taste; beat all well, pour into a deep dish, and 
bake in a quick oven until it is nicely browned. 

POTATO PIE. 

Butter a shallow pie-dish rather thickly ; line the edges with a 
good crust, and then fill the pie with mashed potatoes, seasoned 

with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; 
layover them some marrow, together 
with small lumps of butter, hard- 
boiled eggs, blanched almonds, sliced 
dates, sliced lemon, and candied peel; 
cover the dish with pastry, and bake the pie in a well-heated 
oven for ^ hour or more, according to the size of the pie. 

POTATO PATTIES. 

A nice way to make little potato patties is to grate ^{ pound 
mealy potatoes to a fine flour, moistened with a little milk and add 2 
ounces butter beaten to a cream; boil j4 pint milk and stir it boil- 
ing into the potatoes, continuing to stir it over the fire to a smooth 
paste ; take it off and mix in 2 well-beaten eggs ; let the whole 
cool; beat it up with the yolks of 4 eggs; whip the whites to a 
snow and stir it gently into the batter ; butter small patty-pans and 
sift grated bread over to line them as with a crust ; fill these with 
the batter and bake to a deep yellow color, just before they are to 
be served. Send immediately to table with fish or fowl. 

POTATO ROLLS. 

Five large potatoes mashed while warm ; add i quart flour, salt 
to season, i teacup milk, stir until light, make into rolls, let stand 2 
hours, then bake. 



VEGETABLES. 



SARATOGA POTATOES. 



507 



Peel and shave into thin slices with a potato-cutter; rinse in cold 
water and dry with a cloth, then fry to a nice yellow in hot lard ; 
drip carefully and sprinkle with salt while hot. 

SAVORY POTATOES. 

Peel and slice potatoes as for stewing, and lay in cold water for 
an hour; put them over the fire in boiling water, throw in a pinch 
of salt and cook until tender ; drain and pour over them a cup of 
soup stock, skimmed, strained, seasoned with parsley and a little 
onion, and thickened with 2 teaspoons browned flour rubbed up 
with I of butter; return to the fire, cook 10 minutes and serve 
in a deep dish. 

STEWED POTATOES. 

Cut in small pieces enough cold boiled potatoes to fill a vege- 
table-dish ; put into them i pint milk, Yz cup butter, salt and pepper 
to taste ; thicken with i teaspoon flour ; stew 5 minutes, and serve. 

POTATO SOUFFLE. 

Six large, smooth potatoes, ^ cup boiling milk, 1 tablespoon 
Gutter, the whites of 4 eggs, salt and pepper to taste; wash the 
potatoes clean, being careful not to break the skin ; bake 45 
minutes ; take the potatoes from the oven, and with a sharp knife 
cut them in two, lengthwise ; scoop out the potato with a spoon, 
and put it in a hot bowl ; mash light and fine ; add the seasoning, 
butter, and milk, and then ^ the whites of the eggs; fill the skins 
with the mixture; cover with the remaining white of the &^g, and 
brown in the oven; great care must be taken not to break the skins. 

POTATO SURPRISE. 

Scoop out the inside of a sound potato, leaving the skin 
attached at one side of the hole, as a lid : mince finely the lean of 
a juicy mutton chop with a little salt and pepper; put it in the 
potato, fasten down the lid, and bake or roast ; before serving (in its 
skin) add a little hot gravy if the mince seems tpo dry. 



508 VEGETABLES. 

STUFFED POTATOES. 

Bake large potatoes until done; cut a "cap "from the top of 
each ; scoop out the inside carefully and mash softly with butter 
and milk. Mince the cooked giblets of chickens fine, season with 
pepper and salt, stir into the potatoes, add the beaten yolk of I 
egg, beat in a sauce-pan until very hot, fill the skins, replace the 
tops and set in an oven for 3 minutes. 

POTATO TURNOVERS. 

Mash some dry, mealy potatoes while they are warm ; add a 
piece butter and mix with them 2 or 3 beaten eggs, according to 
the quantity of potatoes. Dredge a pasteboard, spread on it the 
potatoes a good ^-inch thick ; when cool cut out in squares or 
round cakes 5 inches across. Put on each i large tablespoon of any 
remnants of meat or poultry minced fine ; turn over j4 of the cake 
to cover it, coat them over with egg and bread-crumbs, and bake a 
delicate brown in a moderate oven. 

TOSSED POTATOES. 

Boil some potatoes in their skins ; peel them and cut into small 
pieces; toss them over the fire in a mixture of cream, butter 
rolled in flour, pepper and salt, till they are hot and well covered 
with the sauce. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Sweet potatoes require from 45 to 55 minutes to boil, and from 
I io 1% hours to bake; the time given will make the potatoes moist 
and sweet; if, however, they are preferred dry and mealy, 15 min- 
utes less will be enough. 

FRENCH FRIED SWEET POTATOES. 

Prepare and fry the same as the white potatoes ; or, they can 
first be boiled yi hour, and then pared, cut, and fried as directed ; 
the latter is the better way, as they arc liable to be a little hard if 
fried when raw. 



VEGETABLES. 509 

COLD BOILED SWEET POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled sweet potatoes in thick slices, and season well 
with salt and pepper ; have the bottom of the frying-pan covered 
with either butter, or pork, ham, or chicken fat ; put enough of 
the sliced potatoes in the pan to just cover the bottom ; brown one 
side, and turn, and brown the other; serve in a hot dish; cold 
potatoes can be served in cream, cut in thick slices and toasted ; 
cut in thick slices, dipped in egg and bread-crumbs, and fried 
brown ; and can be fried in batter. 

A farmer's dainty dish. 

Peel and slice thin potatoes and onions (5 potatoes to i small 
onion); take ^ pound sweet salt pork (in thin slices) to i pound 
beef, mutton or veal; cut the meat in small pieces; take some nice 
bread dough and shorten a little ; line the bottom of the stew-pan 
with slices of pork, then a layer of meat, potatoes and onions, dust 
over a little pepper and cover with a layer of crust ; repeat this 
until the stew-pot is full ; the size of the pot will depend on the 
number in the family; pour in sufificient water to cover, and finish 
with crust ; let it simmer until meat, vegetables, etc., are done, but 
do not let it boil hard ; serve hot. This we are assured by one who 
knows is a dish fit to set before a king. 

RICE AS A vegetable. 

It should first be picked over, washed and dried ; then put in 
boiling water and salt and boil 12 minutes; there should be plenty 
of water; at the end of 10 or 12 minutes, pour off the water, 
cover up the rice, and set on the back of the stove on a brick ; let 
it steam there for 15 minutes; if it has been in a sufificiently hot 
place to steam it will now be done, and every grain will be dis- 
tinct ; pour off the water, and, for every cup of rice, add }4 cup 
milk and stir; the milk is better warmed before adding it to the rice. 

CASSEROLE OF RICE. 

One pound rice, i slice ham, 2 ounces butter, i pint stock. 
Wash the rice 3 times, drain, and let it simmer with the ham in the 



5IO VEGETABLES. 

Stock till tender ; mash it well, and roll into a ball ; shape and hol- 
low it out, paint it well with oiled butter, and bake a golden brown. 

RADISHES. 

Cut down the tops to within an inch of the roots; wash, scrape 
off the fibres and arrange tastefully on a dish with bits of ice 
between them. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Ten ears green corn, i pint Lima beans ; cut the corn from the 
cob, and stew gently with the beans until tender; use as little water 
as^jossible; season with butter, salt and pepper; milk if you choose. 

SPINACH. 

To a peck well washed and picked spinach take i gallon water 
and 3 even tablespoons salt ; boil for lo minutes or a trifle more, 
until tender, drain on a sieve, press a little with your hands or 
butter-ladle to extract the water; chop it up fine, put it in a stew- 
pan with % pound butter, i teaspoon salt, ^ teaspoon pepper, i 
tablespoon vinegar, and i or 2 of broth or beef stock; set over a 
bright fire for a few moments, stirring well ; lay slices of cold hard- 
boiled eggs over it in the vegetable dish. 

SPINACH, NO. 2. 

Pick over carefully, into cold water ; drain and place in boiling 
water with soda the size of a pea; boil 15 minutes; season with 
salt and pepper, drain thoroughly, press into shape, and put melted 
butter or Hollandaise sauce on top. Or cut 8 hard-boiled eggs in 
halves, take out the yolks, slice the whites, and lay over the spinach- 
set in a warr.i place, and make the sauce ; melt 2 ounces butter, add 
a little corn-starch to thicken, mix smooth, and pour in i pint 
boiling water, stir until smooth, take from the fire, season with salt^ 
pepper and a little lemon-juice ; add the yolks of the eggs, smoothly 
nnixed ; let come to a boil, and pour over the spinach. 



VEGETABLES. 5II 

SUMMER SQUASH. 

These arc better when young and tender, which may be known 
Dy pressing the nail through the skin ; do not peel or take out seeds, 
but boil whole, or cut across in thick slices ; boil in as little water 
as possible for ^ or ^ hour, drain well, mash and set on back 
part of stove or range to dry out for 10 or 15 minutes, stirring 
occasionally; then season with butter, pepper, salt and a little 
cream ; if old, peel, cut up, take out seeds, boil and season as above. 

WINTER SQUASH. 

Cut up, take out inside, pare the pieces and stew in as little 
water as possible ; cook 1 hour, mash in kettle, and if watery, let 
stand on the fire a few moments, stirring until dry ; season with 
butter, cream, salt and pepper, being careful that it does not burn. 
Winter squashes are also cooked by cutting in pieces without 
paring, baking and serving like potatoes ; or they may be cooked in 
a steamer, and served either in the shell, or scraped out, put in pan, 
mashed, and seasoned with butter, cream, salt and pepper, and then 
made hot and served. 

STUFFED SQUASH. 

Pare a small squash and cut off a slice from the top ; extract the 
seeds and lay i hour in salt water; then fill with a good stuf^ng of 
crumbs, chopped salt pork, parsley, etc., wet with gravy ; put on 
the top slice ; set the squash in a pudding-dish ; put a few spoons 
of melted butter and twice as much hot water in the bottom ; cover 
the dish very closely and set in the oven 2 hours or until tender ; 
lay within a deep dish and pour the gravy over it. 

TOMATOES A LA CREAM. 

Pare and slice ripe tomatoes — i quart fresh ones or a i-pound 
can ; stew until perfectly smooth, season with salt and pepper, and 
add a piece of butter the size of an egg; just before taking from 
the fire stir in i cup cream, with i tablespoon flour stirred smooth 
in a part of it ; do not let it boil after the flour has been put in ; 
have ready in a dish pieces of toast ; pour the tomatoes over this, 
and serve. 



512 VEGETABLES. 



BROWNED TOMATOES. 



Take large round tomatoes and halve them, place them, the 
skin side down, in a frying-pan in which a very small quantity of 
butter and lard have been previously melted, sprinkle them with 
salt and pepper, and dredge well with flour; place the pan on a 
hot part of the fire, and let them brown thoroughly; then stir, and 
let them brown again, and so on until they are quite done; they 
lose their acidity, and their flavor is superior to stewed tomatoes. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Cut ripe tomatoes in two, place, skin downward, in a buttered 
baking-pan, season with pepper and salt, and bake 8 or lo minutes 
in a hot oven; put a bit of butter in each on taking them up. 

BROILED TOMATOES. 

Choose large, firm tomatoes, cut in halves; lay on a broiler, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and set over charcoals, skin side 
down, until tender; when done lift to a heated dish, put a lump of 
butter on each slice, and serve very hot. 

BAKED TOMATOES AND CORN. 

Cut the tops off fine large tomatoes, and scoop out the seeds ; 
set the hollowed tomatoes in a buttered baking-dish, and fill them 
with corn grated from the cob, and seasoned with pepper, salt and 
butter ; put on the tops, pour a little gravy or some of your soup 
stock over and around them, and bake, covered, i hour; brown and 
send to table in the pudding-dish in which they were cooked. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Cut the tomatoes in slices without skinning, pepper and salt 
them; then sprinkle a little flour over them, and fry in butter until 
brown ; put them on a hot platter, and pour a little cream into the 
butter and juice; when boiling hot pour over the tomatoes; this 
dish is very nice served with birds. 



VEGETABLES. 513 

FRIED GREEN TOMATOES. 

Cut either nearly ripe or green tomatoes into slices, dip in batter 
and fry in hot fat, same as egg plant. 

ESCALOPED TOMATOES. 

Put a layer of thinly-sliced fresh tomatoes into a buttered dish; 
season with salt, pepper and bits of butter dotted here and there; 
then put in a layer of bread-crumbs; fill the dish with alternate 
layers, finishing with crumbs dotted with butter; bake i hour. 

TOMATO HASH. 

Place in a baking-dish alternate layers of sliced tomatoes and 
chopped cold meat, well seasoned, and pour 2 beaten eggs over the 
top ; bake 10 minutes in a hot oven. 

TOMATOES WITH MACARONI. 

Take a quantity of tomatoes, cut them up, and put them into a 
sauce-pan, with a small piece of butter, pepper and salt ; add a few 
teaspoons of either stock or gravy ; keep stirring on the fire until 
they are reduced to a pulp, pass them through a hair sieve, and 
dress the macaroni with this sauce and plenty of cheese, freshly 
grated. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Choose 12 large, round tomatoes; cut them off smooth at the 
stem end ; take out the seeds and pulp ; take i pound lean steak 
and 2 slices bacon; chop them fine, with the inside of the tomatoes; 
season with a finely-chopped onion, fried, i dessertspoon salt, ^ 
teaspoon white pepper, as much cayenne pepper as you can take 
on the end of a knife, and i tablespoon finely-chopped parsley; 
add 4 rolled crackers, and if too stiff, thin with stock, water or 
cold gravy: fill the tomatoes with this forcemeat, packing tight;; 
sift cracker-crumbs over the top, and bake for i hour in a moderate 
oven. 

TURNIPS. 
Pare and cut into pieces; put them into boiling water well 
salted, and boil until tender ; drain thoroughly and then mash, and 

33 



5M 



VEGETABLES. 



add a piece of butter, pepper and salt to taste, and a small tea- 
spoon sugar; stir until they are thoroughly mixed, and serve hot. 

DICED TURNIPS. 

Pare, slice, cut in dice i inch square, boil till nearly done, in as 
little water as possible ; to i quart turnips, add i tablespoon sugar, 
salt to make it palatable ; when they are boiled as dry as possible, 
add 2 or 3 spoons cream and i beaten egg, and serve. Excellent. 

PUREE OF TURNIPS. 
Peel and slice ^ dozen large white turnips ; boil them until soft 
enough to mash, rub them through a colander and return to the 
fire; beat into them i tablespoon melted butter, i tablespoon 
cream, and pepper and salt to taste. Serve very hot. 

FRENCH BATTER FOR FRYING VEGETABLES. 

Moisten a little flour with water, and add to it a small quantity 
of salt, I tablespoon olive oil, and i}^ spoons French brandy; beat 
up the mixture thoroughly, and, when you are ready to use it, beat 
into it the white of i egg previously beaten to a strong froth. This 
batter may be used for frying sweet entremets, in which case sugar 
must be used instead of salt. 




'■'?^^A 






GOLDEN SANDS. 



CHAPTER XXII, 

THE DINING ROOM. 



THE TABLE. 

The advisability of making dishes attractive by dainty serving 
is not enough appreciated by the busy housewife. It seems so much 
easier to dish the meat and vegetables " anyhow," than to use the 
extra exertion needed to make them pretty, that she is apt to grow 
careless. Habit is everything in such matters. The practice once 
acquired of arranging the food to please the eye, as well as the 
palate, the added labor is taken for granted and seldom observed. 

For instance, take the various styles of serving potatoes. When 
baked or boiled in the skins, they should always be wrapped in a 
large, white napkin, folded to % of its size, and laid in a deep dish, 
with the corners turned over the contents. Sweet potatoes should 
receive the same treatment. Fried potatoes, after having been 
drained entirely of fat, should be heaped on a small, fringed white 
napkin, lining the dish. Like those cooked in the skins, they 
" sweat " and become soggy, if laid directly on the china. Stewed 
potatoes should be sprinkled with finely-minced parsley, and mashed 
potato, neatly molded. 

Bread must be smoothly cut, then piled on a little doyley or 
Japanese paper mat, laid in the plate. The same course should be 
pursued with cheese and with crackers. A napkin or doyley should 
always be placed on the bottom of a cake basket. Croquettes of 
all sorts should be served on a napkin. Celery should be freed 
from green or rusty stalks, and arranged in a tall glass or long 
celery-dish. 

Meat dishes should be garnished with sprays of parsley, water- 
cress or celery tops ; fish, with these, and with sliced lemon- 
Carrot tops, or young beet leaves, make a pretty garnish, as do 
lettuce leaves. The gravy should be served in a boat, unless it is 

515 



5l6 THE DINING ROOM. 

some sauce expressly intended to be poured over the meat or fish, 
and even then it is better to reserve part of it and help it out 
separately, as each plate is filled. 

A dish of fruit is twice as tempting if decorated with ivy leaves, 
ferns, autumn leaves, or any graceful sprays of green. A few 
bright blossoms produce a pretty effect. Bricks or forms of ice 
cream should be placed on a napkin, as they are thus more easily 
helped, and are less likely to melt and float than on the bare dish. 
A little thought will easily indicate to the housewife the best and 
simplest methods of serving various viands, and she will devise for 
herself dainty modes of garnishing and arranging dishes. What- 
ever tends to make food more appetizing in appearance will render 
it more so in reality. 

When the table-cloth is disfigured by a spot at a single place, this 
should be concealed by a clean napkin smoothly laid over the 
unlucky blemish. The knives should never be allowed to appear 
until all marks of acid, etc., have been polished from them. The 
silver should be bright and the china and glass free not only from 
visible dirt, but from the slight roughness to the touch that 
indicates either want of thoroughness in the wiping or imperfect 
cleanliness of the towel. The salt-cellars should either be emptied 
and refilled after every meal, or the top of each be pressed down, 
specks removed, and more salt put in to take the place of that 
removed at the last using. There is an unpleasant suggestion in a 
salt-cellar only ^ full and bearing the unmistakable imprint of a 
greasy knife, or worse still, crumbs or bits of other food. 

A custom pursued in some households is that of putting on the 
individual salt-cellars empty and passing around a larger one full of 
salt and furnished with a saltspoon. Each person is thus enabled 
to help himself to what he will need for his own wants. The small 
quantity of salt left in the little cellars may then be thrown away 
after each repast. 

That the people who gather about the board should be scrupu- 
lously neat in their personal appearance, should, one would think, 
go without saying. Still there are families where the father and 
sons sit down to dinner in their shirt sleeves and with unwashed 



THE DINING ROOM. 



517 



hands, and the mother and daughters come to breakfast without 
collars, and hair in curl-papers or crimping-pins. It is bad enough 
in men, but unpardonable in the women. What can be more de-ap- 
petizing for a man than to seat himself at the breakfast table 
opposite a row of greasy curl-papers or horn-like crimpers ? If. 
bangs or frizzes are absolutely indispensable, let the hair be released 
from its bonds before each meal and put up again afterward. 

Breakfast — The cloth is spread over a sub-cover of heavy Can- 
ton flannel — white, of course. If the Canton flannel is not attain- 
able, a clean old blanket, kept for this use alone, may be substituted, 
The table-cloth lies more smoothly thus than on the bare boards, 
and the material looks better. 

The tea-tray, spread with a pretty tray-cloth, or napkin stands 
in front of the house-mistress. On it are arranged cups, saucers and 
spoons, and in convenient proximity are the sugar bowl, slop bowl 
and cream pitcher. The tea-pot or coffee-urn may stand at her 
right hand. If the tea is made on the table, as is by far the best 
and daintiest way, a hot-water pot, supplied with a spirit lamp must 
be added to the equipage, as well as a tea-caddy. A cosy, or thick 
'vvadded cap for the tea-pot, is almost an essential. 

In front of the master of the house is laid a mat on which to 
place any dish of meat it falls to him to serve. Similar mats bal- 
ance one another on opposite sides of the table and on these are the 
bread and potatoes. If flowers or a few sprays of ivy or wandering 
Jew are accessible, they should hold a postion of honor in the center 
of the table. When these are lacking, the butter-dish may stand 
there. The pepper-cruets and salt-cellars may be placed at the 
corners of the table. Casters are entirely out of fashion. A plate 
should be put at each place, but not face downward. That also is 
obsolete, as is the custom of putting on tumblers bottom upward. 
To the right of the plate is laid the knife, with the edge turned 
from the one who is to use it. Beside this is the folded napkin. 
To the left of the plate is the fork. Near the point of the knife is the 
goblet or tumbler, and the individual butter-plate. If oatmeal or 
porridge of any kind is to be served at the beginning of the meal, a 
saucer should stand in each plate and a spoon be laid beside it. 



5i8 



THE DINING ROOM. 



The oatmeal should be placed by the hostess, who serves it, 
adding sugar and cream herself, or passing these, as seems best to 
her. When this is eaten, the saucers and plates may be removed 
and hot plates be brought in, together with the rest of the break- 
fast. The waitress may pass the plates after they are filled, always 
going to the left of the one she is serving. The vegetables and 
bread may then be passed, as well as coffee, tea, etc. It saves wait- 
ing- to put a butter-ball on each individual butter-plate before the 
family come to the table. 

When fruit forms a third course, all other dishes should be 
removed and the fruit placed on the table. Each person should be 
provided with a plate bearing a fruit-napkin or doyley, fruit-knife, 
finger-bowl, and when oranges are to be eaten, a teaspoon. If ber- 
ries are served, saucers must be provided. 

Dinner — For this meal, the table may be set much as it is at 
breakfast, with the exception of the tea-tray. The soup-spoon may 
be laid across the top of each place. If salad is to be eaten, 2 
forks may be placed at the left hand. A piece of bread may lie 
by the napkin. The soup-tureen may be set in front of the host- 
ess, who serves it. The soup plates should have been arranged at 
the different places, each being set in an ordinary plate. When the 
soup has been carried out, both kinds of plates are taken also. As 
at breakfast, hot plates must be brought in for the next course. 
The meat is placed in front of the carver. If there is a waitress in 
attendance all the time, the dishes of vegetables may be placed on 
a sideboard, but if not, they may remain on the table, and either 
be served by members of the family or be passed by the waitress. 

This course finished, all dishes are carried out. The meat-plat- 
ter must be taken first, the vegetables follow and the soHd plates 
come last of all. When salad comes next, the dish of lettuce and 
an empty bowl are placed in front of the hostess. She spreads a 
fruit-napkin in the bottom of the empty dish, and after having 
rinsed her fingers in a finger-bowl, breaks the lettuce apart and 
drops it into the napkin, to be dried. This done, she turns the 
lettuce into the bowl and dresses it with a plain French dressing. 



THE DINING ROOM. 519 

Mix and toss all well together, and pass, allowing each guest to 
help himself. 

Before the dessert, the table must be cleared, and the crumbs 
brushed from the table, into a small tray, using a napkin for this in 
preference to a brush. The fresh plates or saucers may be put at 
each place and the dessert set on the table. If fruit is to follow 
the pastry or pudding, fruit-plates, arranged as directed at break- 
fast, must be substituted for the dessert-plates when the guests 
have finished with those. Coffee or tea may come last of all. 

Supper — This differs very little from breakfast, except for the 
omission of the oatmeal. The same general directions may be 
followed with tolerable safety. A little practice will soon make 
easy and natural what at first seems awkward and arbitrary. The 
refinement that marks the table manners of the best bred people 
arises from their being accustomed to such little niceties as this 
paper describes. 



A YEAR'S BILL OF FARE. 



The following Bills of Fare have been made with especial 
reference to convenience, economy, and adaptation to the wants of 
ladies who are so fortunate as to be obliged to look after their own 
kitchens — not for those who employ professional cooks. The 
recipes referred to are all contained in this book, and may be 
quickly found by reference to the index. The bills of fare are not, 
of course, arbitrary, from the fact that latitude and longitude make 
a difference in the season and available kinds of food, but are 
intended to suggest such a variety as will meet the wants of the 
whole family. A daily reference to these pages will, Ave feel sure, 
save the house-wife much puzzling over the question, "What shall 
we have for dinner?" 

For the sake of brevity, coffee, tea, chocolate, and the like have 
not been mentioned in the bills of fare. They are, of course, ap- 
propriate to any meal, and are to be used according to taste ; and 



520 THE DINING ROOM. 

the same may be said of oatmeal and cracked wheat, which is 
a standard dish with many. 

The housekeeper should aim at a variety on successive meals 
rather than in the same meal, remembering that a few dishes 
daintily cooked and served make a far more attractive dinner than 
many dishes less perfectly cooked and served. 

JANUARY. 

Monday. Breakfast — Milk toast, rolls, broiled steak, fried 
apples. Dinner — Roast duck, apple sauce, beef stew, mashed 
turnips, baked sweet potatoes, celery; plum pudding with sauce, 
fruit cake, oranges. Snpper — Light biscuit, cold meat, whipped 
cream with preserves, sliced beef. 

Tuesday. Breakfast — Waffles, broiled fish, fried raw potatoes. 
Dinner — Tomato soup, salmi of duck, roasted potatoes, cabbage 
salad, canned pease, celery sauce; pumpkin pie. Supper — Toasted 
muffins, cold tongue, tea rusk, baked apples. 

Wednesday. Breakfast — Griddle cakes, pig's feet souse, 
baked potatoes. Dirmer — Boiled bacon with cabbage, potatoes, 
turnips, carrots, onion sauce, chicken pie ; bread pudding with 
sauce. Supper — Biscuit, cold bacon shaved, bread and milk, 
sponge cake and jelly. 

Thursday. Breakfast — Hot rolls, corned beef hash, potato 
cakes. Dinner — Escaloped turkey, baked potatoes, pickled beets; 
cottage pudding, cake. Supper — Cold rolls, frizzled, dried beef 
hot buns, fried apples. 

Friday. Breakfast — Graham gems, broiled mutton, fried 
potatoes. Dinner — Turkey soup, roast beef with potatoes, stewed 
tomatoes, celery; rice pudding, mince pie. Supper — Cold buns, 
sliced beef, Indian pudding (corn mush) and milk, sponge cake, 
sauce. 

Saturday. Breakfast — Steamed toast, fried mush and maple 
syrup, fried liver and bacon. Dinner — Meat pie with chili sauce, 
mashed turnips, stewed corn; apple dumplings with sauce. Slipper 
— Tea rolls, sardines with sliced lemon, rusk, jelly. 

Sunday. Breakfast — Buckwheat cakes, croquettes of sausage 



THE DINING ROOM. 52 1 

meat, breakfast hominy. Dinner — Roast turkey, mashed potatoes, 
Lima beans, cranberry sauce, celery ; mince pie, ambrosia cake. 
Supper — Cold biscuit, sliced turkey, cranberry jelly, eggless cake, 
apple sauce. 

FEBRUARY. 

Monday. Breakfast — Corn pone, ham and eggs, potatoes a la 
Lyonnaise. Dinner — Whole boiled potatoes and carrots, baked 
heart, stewed tomatoes; ginger pudding, fruit sauce. Supper — 
Toasted pone, cold heart sliced, plain bread, quince preserves with 
whipped cream. 

Tuesday. Breakfast — -Buckwheat cakes, broiled sausage, 
chipped potatoes, toast. Dimier — Celery soup, roast mutton, 
mashed potatoes, baked macaroni, celery, currant jelly ; chocolate 
blanc mange, peach pie. Supper — Cold mutton sliced, currant jelly, 
buttered toast, rusk, stewed apples. 

Wednesday. Breakfast — Graham bread, broiled bacon, fried 
potatoes. Dinner — Boiled corned beef with horse-radish sauce, 
boiled potatoes and turnips, slaw; hot apple pie with whipped 
cream, oranges and cake. Supper — Toasted Graham bread, cold 
corned beef sliced, grape jelly, hot buns, cake. 

Thursday. Breakfast — Broiled fish, corn batter cakes, potato 
rissoles. Dinner — Roast beef with potatoes, tomatoes, canned 
beans, celery sauce; tapioca cream, cake. Slipper — Cold roast 
beef, drop biscuit, floating island, tea cakes. 

Friday. Breakfast — Broiled oysters on toast, tomato sauce, 
flannel cakes with honey or maple syrup. Dinner — White soup, 
baked or boiled fish if fresh, or fricassee, if canned, mashed pota- 
toes, fried parsnips, cabbage salad a la mayonnaise; apple dump- 
lings with sauce. Supper — Dried beef shaved and warmed up in 
butter, hot corn mush with milk, canned fruit and light cakes. 

Saturday. Breakfast — Broiled mutton chops, toast, rolls, 
scrambled eggs. Dinner — Beef soup, boiled potatoes, boiled ham, 
cabbage, parsnips, mixed pickles ; cottage pudding with sauce, 
pie. Supper — Light biscuit, cold ham shaved, apple croutes, 
plain rice with sugar and cream. 



522 THE DINING ROOM. 

Sunday. Breakfast — Sally Lunn, ham balls, fried raw pota- 
toes. Dinner — Oyster soup, roast duck, baked potatoes, mashed 
turnips, cranberry sauce, celery ; mince pie, oranges, iced cakes. 
Supper — Cold Sally Lunn, cold duck, dried apple sauce, cakes. 

MARCH. 

Monday. Breakfast — Griddle cakes, chicken croquettes, pota- 
toes, escaloped eggs. Dinner — Soup; boiled beef's tongue dressed 
with sauce piquante, stewed potatoes, boiled onions ; pudding. 
Supper — Cold biscuit, shaved tongue, orange sauce, cake. 

Tuesday. Breakfast — Buttered toast, pork chops broiled, 
stewed potatoes. Dinner — Tomato soup, pigeon pie, creamed pota- 
toes, canned corn or beans, pickles; steamed pudding with sauce, 
almonds, raisins. Supper — Plain bread, sardines with lemon, light 
coffee cake or sweet buns and jam. 

Wednesday. Breakfast — Griddle cakes, broiled mutton chops, 
potatoes. Din?ier — Beef soup, broiled steak, boiled potatoes, 
salsify, oyster salad, sweet pickles, transparent pudding, cream 
puffs, oranges. Supper — Graham biscuit, cold meat, apple fritters 
with sugar, sponge cake. 

Thursday. Breakfast — Graham bread, broiled fish, potatoes. 
Dinner — Corned beef boiled with turnips or parsnips, canned 
corn, boiled onions, horse-radish sauce ; cocoanut pie. Supper — 
Toasted graham bread, cold beef shaved, warm rusk and jelly. 

Friday. Breakfast — Corn batter cakes, broiled bacon, boiled 
eggs, or omelette souffle. Dinner — Veal broth, baked or boiled fish 
or steaks of halibut, mashed potatoes, stewed carrots, onion sauce ; 
eggless ice cream, apples and nuts. Supper — Pates of fish, plain 
bread, toasted rusk, sweet omelette and sauce. 

Saturday. Breakfast — Bread puffs, fried liver, boiled eggs, 
potatoes. Dinner — Bean soup, escaloped oysters, tomatoes, 
pickled beets; kiss pudding with sauce, pie. Supper — French rolls; 
cold tongue, bread fritters, cake and canned fruit. 

Sunday. Breakfast — Baked beans with pork and Boston 
brown bread, omelette. Dinner — Roast turkey, potatoes, canned 



THE DINING ROOM. 523 

corn, plum jelly; Charlotte russe, sponge cake and jelly. Supper — 
Cold turkey, cranberry jelly, canned fruit, jam and cake. 

APRIL. 

Monday. Breakfast — Rolls, veal chops, fried raw potatoes. 
Dinjier — Rice soup, roast beef, turnips, potatoes, tomato sauce, 
pickled oysters ; baked custard, pie. Supper — Cold rolls, omelette, 
cold beef sliced, cake and jam. 

Tuesday. Breakfast — MufKins, fried liver, fried potatoes. Din- 
ner — Mutton soup, mutton garnished with eggs, pickles, creamed 
potatoes, canned tomatoes ; bread pudding with sauce. Supper — 
Toasted muf^ns, sliced mutton, sponge cake and jelly. 

Wednesday. Breakfast — Flannel cakes, minced mutton or 
broiled chops, breakfast potatoes. Dinner — Roast pork, apple sauce, 
mashed potatoes,fried parsnips , lettuce; lemon pudding, jelly cake. 
Supper — Yankee dried beef, soda biscuit and honey, floating island. 

Thursday. Breakfast — Sally Lunn, veal cutlets, potato cakes. 
Dinner — Baked stuffed heart, potatoes, turnips, canned corn, pickled 
eggs ; cup custard, peach tapioca pudding. Supper — Light biscuit, 
cold sliced heart, bread fritters with sugar, cake and sauce. 

Friday. Breakfast — French rolls, broiled fish if salt, fried if 
fresh, fried raw potatoes, tomato sauce. Dinner — Soup, baked or 
boiled fresh fish, mashed potatoes, canned peas or beans, lettuce, 
onions ; English pudding, jelly tarts. Supper — Cold rolls, bologna 
sausage sliced, steamed crackers, cake and preserved fruit. 

Saturday. Breakfast — Batter cakes, broiled chops, scrambled 
eggs, potato rissoles. Dinner — Bean soup, broiled beefsteak, spin- 
ach, potatoes, pickled beets ; pudding with sauce, oranges and cake. 
Supper — Toasted bread, cold tongue sliced, hot buns and mar- 
malade. 

Sunday. Breakfast — Baked beans and Boston brown bread, 
omelette with parsley. Dinner — Vermicelli soup, baked shad or 
croquettes of canned lobster, broiled squabs or pigeon pie, mashed 
potatoes, turnips, asparagus, spring cresses, dressed lettuce, grape 
jelly ; custard pie. Supper — Plain bread, canned salmon, cold buns, 
jelly, sponge cake. 



524 THE DINING ROOM. 

MAY. 

Monday. Breakfast — Gems, dry toast, potato cakes, broiled 
beefsteak. Dinner — Roast of mutton with potatoes, canned toma- 
toes, rhubarb sauce; baked custards, fruit cake. Supper — Cold 
biscuit, sliced mutton, currant jelly, sweet buns, cream. 

Tuesday. Breakfast — Corn cakes, fried pickled tripe, scram- 
bled eggs, potatoes. Dinner — Boiled beef with soup, whole pota- 
toes, asparagus with eggs; cocoanut pudding, jelly. Supper — Plain 
bread, cold beef, toasted buns with strawberry jam or canned fruit, 
cake. 

Wednesday. Breakfast — Dropped eggs on toast, broiled ham, 
potatoes. Dinner — Boiled tongue with Chili sauce, fricasseed pota- 
toes, cresses, boiled asparagus; ice-cream, sponge cake. Supper — 
Tea biscuits, shaved tongue, sago jelly, lady cake. 

Thursday. Breakfast — Graham bread, fried mutton chops, 
fried raw potatoes. Dinner — Asparagus soup, roast of veal with 
potatoes, stewed onions, pickled beets ; cake, orange float. Supper — 
Toasted Graham bread, sliced veal, tea rusk, lemon jelly. 

Friday. Breakfast — Mufifins, broiled beefsteak, poached eggs, 
chipped potatoes. Dinner — Baked or boiled fish (if large, or fried 
small fish), boiled potatoes in jackets, lettuce salad; custard pie. 
Slipper — Toasted muffins, cold rusk with strawberries, or marma- 
lade, cake. 

Saturday. Breakfast — Bread puffs with maple syrup, fricas- 
seed potatoes, croquettes of fish. Di?iner — Boiled leg of mutton 
mint sauce, asparagus, boiled macaroni, potatoes ; bread pudding. 
Supper — Cold rolls, cold mutton sliced, plain boiled rice with cream 
and sugar. 

Sunday. Breakfast — Rice waffles, mutton croquettes, boiled 
eggs, fried raw potatoes. Dinner — Soup, roast beef, clam pie, new 
potatoes, tomatoes, dressed lettuce, young beets, strawberry cream 
and snow custard, coffee and macaroons. Supper — Light rolls, cold 
beef, cake and jelly, or strawberries. 

JUNE. 
Monday. Breakfast — Oranges, French rolls, broiled liver, 
scrambled eggs. Dinner — Roast beef, mashed potatoes, beets, salmon 



THE DINING ROOM. 525 

salad ; boiled rice with cream. Supper — Plain bread, Graham bread, 
bologna sausage, rusk with berries. 

Tuesday. Breakfast — Rice cakes, lamb chops, boiled eggs, fried 
potatoes. Dinner — Boiled beef's tongue (fresh) served with Chili 
sauce, baked potatoes, young beets, lettuce dressed; raspberr>- 
cream, cake. Supper — Rolls, sliced beef's tongue, cheese, toasted 
rusk, berries. 

Wednesday. Breakfast — Graham gems, mufifins, beefsteak, 
potato cakes. Dinner — Soup of stock boiled yesterday with tongue, 
chicken pie, mashed potatoes and turnips, spinach, lettuce; cream 
fritters with sauce. Supper — Toasted muffins, cold chicken pie, 
cake and strawberries. 

Thursday. Breakfast — Sally Lunn, veal cutlets, potatoes, 
radishes. Dinner — Ragout of lamb, mashed potatoes, asparagus, 
lettuce; lemon pudding, pie. Supper — Rolls, bread, cold sliced 
Iamb, sliced tomatoes, Swiss cake, berries. 

Friday. Breakfast — Rolls, breakfast stew, potatoes or toma- 
toes. Dinner — Soup, fresh fish fried or baked, mashed potatoes, 
asparagus, beet salad ; rice pudding, with sauce and cake, oranges. 
Supper — Cold rolls, dried beef chipped, custard cake with fruit or 
berries. 

Saturday Breakfast — Graham gems, croquettes of fish or 
breaded veal cutlets, potatoes, escaloped eggs. Dinner — Ham 
boiled with greens, potatoes, beets, young onions ; Eglantine pud- 
ding, Italian cream. Supper — Toasted gems, cold ham, oat-meal with 
cream, cake and jelly. 

Sunday. Breakfast — Light rolls, broiled beefsteak, sliced 
tomatoes, omelets. Dinner — Vegetable soup, baked chicken, 
mashed potatoes, green pease, pickled beets; Bavarian cream with 
strawberries. Supper — Cold rolls, cold chicken, toast with jelly, 
fruit. 

JULY. 
Monday. Breakfast — Griddle cakes, broiled ham, tomato 
omelette, radishes. Dinner — Baked lamb, green pease, baked 
potatoes, squash ; rice custard, berries with cream. Supper — Bis- 
cuit, cold lamb sliced, cake, ripe currants with cream. 



526 THE DINING ROOM. 

Tuesday. Breakfast — Rice muffins, hash on toast, tomatoes. 
Diniur — Economical soup, stuffed fillet of veal, green pease, 
mashed potatoes, beet salad ; blackberry pudding with sauce, cake. 
Slipper — Buttered toast, cold sliced meat, blackberries with cream. 

Wednesday. Breakfast — Rolls, vegetable hash, broiled beef- 
steak, cottage cheese. Dinner — Mock (or real) turtle soup, baked 
heart, baked potatoes, stewed beans ; chocolate pudding, cocoanut 
cake. Slipper — Cold rolls, sliced heart, cottage puffs, berries. 

Thursday. Breakfast — Cream toast, fried liver, dropped 
eggs, fricasseed potatoes. Dinner — Clam pie, boiled ham, mashed 
potatoes, string beans, lettuce ; blackberry pie. Supper — Plain bread, 
dried beef frizzled, rice batter cakes with sugar, cake and berries, 

Friday. Breakfast — Muffins, broiled beefsteak, fried potatoes. 
Dinner — Soup, fish, fresh or canned, whole potatoes, pease, squash, 
lettuce; chocolate cream. Supper — Toasted muffins, cold pressed 
meat, corn meal mush with cream, cake and fruit. 

Saturday. Breakfast — Plain bread, veal sweetbreads, fried 
mush, boiled eggs. Dinner — Boiled ham with potatoes, cabbage, 
string beans; warm gingerbread, pie. Supper — Dry toast, cold 
ham shaved, rusk, blackberries and cream. 

Sunday. Breakfast — Vienna rolls, fried chicken with cream 
gravy, fried tomatoes, cottage cheese. Dinner — Barley soup, roast 
of beef with potatoes, stewed tomatoes, cucumbers, w^ilted lettuce; 
Charlotte russe. Supper — Cold rolls, sliced beef, blackberries, cake. 

AUGUST. 

Monday. Breakfast — Dropped eggs on toast, roast beef 
warmed up with gravy, tomato omelette. Dinner — Baked lamb, 
creamed cabbage, stewed tomatoes; cream pudding. Supper — 
Buns, cold lamb sliced, preserve puffs, apple sauce. 

Tuesday. Breakfast — Plain bread, hash, stewed tomatoes. 
Dinner — Corn soup, beef ^ la mode, boiled potatoes, green corn 
pudding, sliced tomatoes; tapioca cream. Supper — Milk toast, 
cold pressed meat, chocolate custard. 

Wednesday. Breakfast — French rolls, broiled beefsteak, 
baked potatoes, cottage cheese. Dimmer — Soup with chicken, 



THE DINING ROOM. ^2/ 

celery, mashed potatoes, stev/ed beans, sliced cucumbers and 
onions ; watermelon. Supper — Cold rolls, chicken salad, apple 
sauce, schmier kase. 

Thursday. Breakfast — Cream toast, fried liver, potato cakes, 
stewed tomatoes. Dinner — Roast leg of mutton with potatoes, 
green corn, tomatoes; musk melon. Supper — Plain bread, dried 
beef with gravy, boiled rice with cream, berries. 

Friday. Breakfast — Rice cakes, waffles, mutton stew, fried 
potatoes. Dinner — Meat pie, young corn, boiled cauliflower; 
grapes, plain cake. Supper — Toast, cold pressed meat, Graham 
mush with cream, cake and berries. 

Saturday. Breakfast — Bread, broiled bacon, Graham mush 
fried, boiled eggs. Dinner — Soup, boiled ham with potatoes, cab- 
bage, string beans ; lemon pie. Supper — Light biscuit, cold ham 
shaved, cake and peaches. 

Sunday. Breakfast — Nutmeg melons, fried chicken with cream 
gravy, fried tomatoes, cottage cheese, fritters. Dinner — Soup, 
roast loin of veal, mashed potatoes, creamed cabbage, tomatoes ; 
tapioca pudding, watermelon. Supper — Cold rolls, sliced veal, 
cake and fruit. 

SEPTEMBER. 

Monday. Breakfast — Graham bread, rolls, fried liver, fried 
tomatoes. Dimter — Soup, roast beef, potatoes, green corn, fried 
egg plant, salad; watermelon. Supper — Toasted biscuit, cheese, 
cold beef, fruit. 

Tuesday. Breakfast — Buttered toast, hash, green corn, fried 
oysters. Dinner — Meat pie, potatoes, young turnips, stewed 
onions, pickled beets ; apple dumplings with cream sauce, peach 
pie. Supper — Canned salmon, cold roast beef, biscuit and jam, 
cake. 

Wednesday. Breakfast — Hot mufflns, broiled chickens, 
cucumbers. Dinner — Roast mutton, baked sweet potatoes, green 
corn, apple sauce, slaw; bread pudding with sauce. Supper — 
Toasted bread, sliced mutton, baked pears. 

Thursday. Breakfast — Corn gems, rolls, stew of mutton, 



528 THE DINING ROOM. 

tomatoes. Dmricr — Veal pot pie, Lima beans, baked egg plant; 
peach meringue, lady cake. Supper — Pressed chicken, omelet, bis- 
cuit, baked sweet apples. 

Friday. Breakfast — Batter cakes, veal croquettes, fried apples, 
potatoes. Di7i7ier — Soup, boiled or baked fish with potatoes, green 
corn, tomato slaw; peaches and cream, cake. Supper — Cold 
tongue, light biscuit, bread and iced milk, cake and fruit. 

Saturday. Breakfast — Short cake, mutton chops, potatoes. 
Dinner — Soup, boiled leg of mutton, caper sauce, potatoes, squash, 
pickled beets: apple meringue, cake. Supper — Cold meat, warm 
rolls, grapes, cake. 

Sunday. Breakfast — Rolls, breakfast stew, potatoes, stewed 
okra. Dimier — Broiled chicken, sweet potatoes, boiled cauliflower, 
plum sauce, cabbage salad; ice-cream, cake. Supper — Sliced veal, 
biscuit, floating island, baked pears. 

OCTOBER. 

Monday. Breakfast — Graham gerns, broiled mutton chop, 
baked eggs, croquettes of cold vegetables. Dinner — Soup, roast 
beef with potatoes, carrots, plain boiled rice; baked custard, 
grapes. Supper — Cold beef shced, bread, rice fritters with sugar. 

Tuesday. Breakfast — Hash, fried okra, fried fish, biscuit. 
Dinner — Boiled mutton with soup, celery, slaw; sliced pine-apples, 
cake. Supper — Sliced mutton, cottage cheese, bread, cake, grape jam. 

Wednesday. Breakfast — Brown bread, corn batter cakes, 
croquettes of mutton and vegetables. Dijtner — Beef a la mode, 
mashed potatoes and turnips, succotash ; apples, grapes, pie. 
Supper — Sliced beef, bread, cake, baked pears. 

Thursday. Breakfast — Toast, croquettes of cold beef and 
vegetables. Dinner — Soup, fried or smothered chickens, mashed 
potatoes, Lima beans, pickles ; bird's nest pudding, cake. 
Supper — Canned corned beef, sliced, rolls, cake, jam. 

Friday. Breakfast — Mutton chops, fried potato cakes, muffins. 
Dinner — Baked or boiled fish, boiled potatoes, corn, delicate cab- 
bage; peach meringue, cake. Supper — Bologna sausage, toasted 
muffins, honey, cheese, cake. 



THE DINING ROOM. 



529 



Saturday. Breakfast — Plain bread, veal cutlets, cracked 
wheat. Dinner — Boiled beef with vegetables ; cocoanut pudding. 
Supper — Soused beef, light biscuit, fried apples, cake. 

Sunday. Breakfast — Vegetable hash, fried oysters, stewed 
tomatoes. Dinner — Broiled pheasant or chicken, sweet potatoes, 
tomatoes; peach meringue pie, plum jelly, cake. Supper — Cold 
beef sliced, rusk, baked apples. 

NOVEMBER. 

Monday. Breakfast — Poached eggs on toast, broiled pork, 
potato cakes. Diftner — Roast beef, sweet potatoes, boiled turnips, 
chicken salad; economical pudding. Supper — Rolls, oatmeal 
mush, cold roast beef, cranberry tarts, cake. 

Tuesday. Breakfast — Graham bread, beef croquettes, pota' 
toes. Dinner — Spiced beef tongue, baked potatoes, macaroni 
with cheese; grapes, pie. Supper — Toasted graham bread, cold 
tongue, baked pears, cake. 

Wednesday. Breakfast — Griddle cakes, broiled mutton chops, 
potatoes. Dinner — Soup, oyster pie, baked sweet potatoes, diced 
turnips, celery ; apple pie with whipped cream. Supper — Cold rolls, 
chipped beef, custard cakes, marmalade. 

Thursday. Breakfast — Waffles, broiled ham, fried sweet pota- 
toes. Dinner — Brown stew, baked potatoes, plain rice, slaw; 
pumpkin pie. Supper — Cold sliced beef, short cake, jam. 

Friday. Breakfast — Corn batter cakes, broiled sausage, chip- 
ped potatoes. Dimicr — Roast pork, apple sauce, mashed potatoes, 
turnips, cabbage; prune whip, cake. Supper — Light biscuit, 
bologna sausage, baked quinces, Swiss cakes. 

Saturday. Breakfast — Graham gems, veal cutlets, potatoes. 
Dinner — Chicken pot pie, vegetables; warm apple pie, cake 
Supper — Toasted gems, dried beef, baked apples, cake. 

Sunday. Breakfast — Cream toast, broiled oysters with pork,, 
fried raw potatoes. Dinner — Oyster soup, roast goose, baked 
potatoes, boiled onions, cranberry sauce, celery ; peach pie. 
Supper — Cold biscuit, sliced goose, grapes, cakes. 

34 



530 



THE DINING ROOM, 



DECEMBER. 

Monday, Breakfast — Graham bread, griddle cakes, break- 
fast stew, fried potatoes. Dhinc^ — Soup, boiled corned beef with 
turnips, potatoes and cabbage ; baked apple dumplings with sauce. 
Supper — Biscuit, cold beef, canned cherries, cake. 

Tuesday. Breakfast — Buttered toast, fried apples, cold turkey 
broiled. Dinner — Roast turkey, cranberry sauce, potatoes, canned 
corn; canned fruit and cream. Supper — Cold turkey, mush and 
milk, buns, jam. 

Wednesday. Breakfast — Corn muffins, breaded veal cutlets, 
Saratoga potatoes. Dinner — Stewed oysters, roast mutton with 
potatoes, t'>matoes, celery; pine-apple ice-cream, jelly, cake. 
Stipper — Toasted muffins, cold mutton slicea, apple croutes. 

Thursday. Breakfast — Hot rolls, scrambled eggs, breakfast 
stew Dinfier — Roast quail or fowl, baked potatoes, Lima beans, 
celery, pumpkin pie. Supper — Cold rolls, cold tongue sliced, 
baked apples, tea cakes. 

Friday. Breakfast — Buckwheat cakes, smoked sausage broiled, 
hominy croquettes. Dinner — Baked or boiled fish, mashed pota- 
toes, squash, cabbage salad ; hot peach pie with cream. 
Supper — Light biscuit, steamed oysters, canned fruit with cake. 

Saturday. Breakfast — Buckwheat cakes, rabbit stew, potato 
cakes. Dinner — Chicken fricassee, baked potatoes, baked turnips; 
cottage pudding with sauce. Supper — French rolls, Welsh rarebit, 
cake, jam. 

Sunday. Breakfast — Muffins, broiled spare-ribs, fried pota- 
toes. Dinner — Soup, roast turkey garnished with fried oysters, 
m.ashed potatoes, turnips; cranberry sauce, celery, pudding. 
Supper — Biscuit sandwiches, cold turkey, jelly and cake. 



THE DINING ROOM. 53I 

THANKSGIVING DINNER. 

Oyster Soup. Celery. 

Roast Turkey, with Cranberry Sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes. Baked Sweet Potatoes. Mashed Turnips. 

Roast Pig. Carrots with Cream. Boston Baked Beans. 

Minced Cabbage. 
Pumpkin Pie. Plum Pudding. 

Fruit. Nuts. Cheese. 

Tea and Coffee. 



CHRISTMAS DINNER. 

Clam or Oyster Soup. Celery. Baked Fish, Hollandaise Sauce. 

Roast Turkey, Oyster Dressing. Celery or Oyster Sauce. 

Roast Duck, Onion Sauce. 

Baked Potatoes. Sweet Potatoes. Baked Squash. Mashed Turnips. 

Canned Corn. Stewed Tomatoes. 

Graham Bread. Rolls, 

Salmon or other Salad. 

Plum Pudding. Peach Pie. 

Fruit and Nuts. 

Coffee and Chocolate. 

ECONOMICAL DINNERS. 

Sunday — Roast beef, potatoes, and greens. Dessert — Pudding, 
or pie, cheese. 

Monday — Hashed beef, potatoes and bread pudding. 

Tuesday — Broiled beef, vegetables, apple pudding. 

Wednesday — Boiled pork, beans, potatoes, greens, and pie or 
rice pudding. 

Thursday — Roast or broiled fowl, cabbage, potatoes, lemon 
pie, cheese. 

Friday — Fish, potato croquettes, escaloped tomatoes, pudding. 

Saturday — A la mode beef, potatoes, vegetables, suet pudding 
and mince pie, cheese. 



532 



THE DINING ROOM. 



COLD LUNCHES FOR WASHING DAYS, OR OTHER DAYS OF EXTRA 

LABOR. 

Lunch, No. i — Cold corned beef, nicely sliced, baked potatoes, 
bread, butter and pickles. Dessert — Mince pie and cheese. 

Lunch, No. 2 — Chicken pie, baked potatoes, rolled bread or 
biscuit. Dessert — Cake and custard. 

Lunch, No. 3 — First course: Raw oysters, with lemon and 
crackers. Second course : Cold veal, with jelly and Saratoga pota- 
toes ; bread and butter. Dessert — Cherry pie with cheese. 

Lunch, No. 4 — Casserole of fish, with mushroom catsup, bread 
and butter. Dessert — Pie and cheese. 

REFRESHMENTS FOR TWENTY PERSONS. 

One gallon oysters, 3 chickens and 8 bunches celery for salad, 
50 sandwiches, l gallon ice cream, 2 molds Charlotte russe, 2 quarts 
jelly, I light and i dark fruit cake, 2 layer cakes, i white or sponge 
cake, I yi pints ground coffee and i gallon water. 

REFRESHMENTS FOR ONE HUNDRED. 

Two gallon pickled oysters, 2 large dishes lobster salad, 2 small 
hams, sliced cold, i, cold tongues sliced thin, 12 jellied or pressed 
chickens, garnish meats with celery sprigs, sliced lemon and red 
beets, curled leaves of celery or center leaves of lettuce; i^ gallons 
gherkins, 12 dozen biscuit sandwiches, 6 to 10 quarts jelly, 4 gallons 
ice-cream, 15 assorted cakes, fruit, delicate, layer and sponge, 12 
dozen macaroons, 4 large dishes assorted fruits, coffee (see recipe 
"Coffee for one hundred" in drink) to serve at beginning, and 6 
gallons lemonade to serve at close. 



CHAPTBR XXIII. 



FOLDING NAPKINS. 



Almost any amount of fancy or ingenuity can be displayed in 
folding serviettes or table-napkins. To make them look well, or 
even to succeed in the more elaborate styles of folding, napkins are 
required very fine, exactly square, not too large, to be starched, 
and folded quite damp, every fold creased in place with a clean hot 
iron. The pantry or housekeeper's room is the place for folding 
the napkins, which may then be brought to table on a tray; but a 
lady may place a board covered with flannel on a small, light table, 
put the iron stand upon it, and shift it down the outside of the 
dinner-table as she folds, so as to place each napkin as it is done on 
a plate. A second iron must be heating to exchange with the one 
in use, for, unless very hot, the napkins will not be stiff enough. 
The shell and the Victoria Regia and the basket require them very 
stiff. If at any time the folding of a napkin is unsatisfactory, on 
no account attempt to refold the same; it is impossible to succeed 
with one already creased. Throw it aside to be re-damped or 
re-starched, which will take but a few moments, and meanwhile 
proceed with fresh ones. 

Napkins folded in alternate patterns down a table look well, 
such as mitres and shells, and there may be flowers placed in the 
shells. Figs. 31, 13, 4 and 32 — the mitre, the cornucopia, the 
pocket and the shell — are perhaps the best of these designs. The 
commoner kinds of folding can be achieved without the aid of 
starch, or even without an iron, although they look much better so 
assisted. The very simplest folds look extremely pretty, if care- 
fully done. They are not folded after they have been once used ; 
when for the family the same are likely to come to table again, a 
ring is placed beside each person, and the article rolled and slipped 
into it after use the first time, and brought to table again in the 
ring, the mark on the ring distinguishing the napkin of each person. 

533 



534 



FOLDING NAPKINS. 



The Pocket.— One of the simplest styles is to fold the napKin 
twice, lengthways; then, like Fig. i, keeping the whole of the fold 




Fig. 32. 





Fig. 4. 



Fig. 31. 





Fig. I. 



Fig. 2. 




Fig. 3. 



at the top, and the edges at A A and B B ; roll up the ends at B to A, 
one at a time, as in Fig. 2, but roll them the reverse way to Fig, 2 
— that is, under, not over. When both ends are rolled up as close 
as E, with a twist of the hand bring the ends of the rolls, D, to the 
point C, like Fig. 3. Then lay the part shown in Fig. 3 flat on the 
table, and set up the diamond-shaped fold at the top with the 
hands; slip the dinner roll or slice of bread into the hollow. Before 
the bread is put in, Fig. 4 represents the form of the folded napkin. 

Crown Pattern.— This requires the damask to be very stiff. 
Halve and quarter it each way, like Fig. 6; bring all the corners 
very exactly to the centre, like Fig. 7 ; bring the four corners of 



FOLDING NAPKINS. 



535 



Fig. 7 also to the centre, and smooth them at the crease ; then form 
it into the crown by folding the corners at A A in Fig. 7, and slip- 
ping them into similar folds at B B, bringing the napkin round and 
upright in the form of a crown (Fig. 8). 

The Flower. — To make this way of folding resemble a flower, 
copy Fig. 6 and then Fig. 7 ; bring all the corners of Fig. 7 nearly, 
but not quite, to the centre for the second fold ; finish it as before 
and then curl up the four centre points, like Fig. 9. 






Fig. 6. 





Fig. 10. 






Fig. II. 



Fig. 12. 




Fig. 8. Fig. 9. 

The Cornucopia looks very pretty down a long dinner-table. 
Fold the napkin in a half, lengthways; then fold it like Fig. 10, the 
hems at the broad end. Take the corners A and B, bringr them 
back again to the corner c, like Fig. 11. Double Fig. 11 together 
down the centre. This represents Fig. 12. At D, in Fig. 12, three 
folds exist, two outer and one inner. Set Fig. 12 upright, over the 
dinner roll with three of these folds to one side. Shape it nicely, 
keeping the space from E to F close. To carry out the idea of the 
cornucopia, a few flowers and leaves may be placed in the manner 
shown in Fig. 13, the stalks slipped under the edge, but must not 
be done too profusely. When the napkins are removed by the 
guests, the flowers will be taken away by the waiter on the plates, 
and can be transferred to the finger-bowls. 



536 



FOLDING NAPKINS. 



The Cocked Hat is made by folding the napkin first in half 
one way, and then in half the other way, and once more in half, 
lengthways, in the way illustrated by Figs. 14 and 15. Then make 
a fold still lengthways, turning one way and one the other, not 
quite to the top. This fold is shown by A A A A in Fig. 16. The 
napkin is supposed, in this diagram, to be laid flat on the table, the 
dotted line in the centre marking the fold, which is shown in Fig. 
17 by the line at B. The lines in Fig. 16 from A to A and A to A, 



a/^ 






/ 


. 


t HH 


1 1 1 


aM^ 


'i^ 


\\\\\\ 


,\A 



Fig. 16. 






Fig. 15. 



Fig. 18. 



Fig. 17. 



Fig. 14. 




Fig. 19. 




Fig. 20. 



are the folds to be made lengthways, not quite meeting the top, 
with the hemmed edges upwards where the lines are marked. The 
napkin is supposed to be doubled in half again in Fig. 17, with the 
hems outside at the line A, on each side of it ; then fold as in Fig. 
17, first one side and then the other, and iron down the crease; then 
partly unfold one side, as shown in the diagram, Fig. 18. The 
dotted lines mark the creases in the unfolded part, and C and C 
show how the pieces marked C, in Fig. 17, is turned down. The 
piece raised is now folded down again, the dotted line, creased, 
passed over the other side, and the ends tucked in and creased 



FOLDING NAPKINS. 



53; 



down flat. The napkin now resembles Fig. 19. Arch it nicely 
over the dinner roll, and put a spray of flowers at the top to 
resemble the feather in a cocked hat, in the manner shown in 
Fig. 20. 

The Basket. — Fold a napkin twice, like Figs. 14 and 15, once 
longways, and the second time across. This is to reduce its size. 





Fig. 24. 

Fold the 4 points to the center, like Fig. 7 ; turn it over on the 
other side, and again fold the 4 points to the center ; again turn 
it face downward, and, with the other side up, turn back the 4 
corners, Fig. 21 ; fold it from A to B, Fig. 21, and C to D, both folds 
to be made keeping the part uppermost outward. Open the last 
fold from c to D, and bring the shoulder B to the shoulder D by a 
fold at the dotted line between E. Repeat the same fold as that at 
E all round. The napkin will now stand on end as a basket, by 
standing it on its legs at E and the other 3 corners, and opening it 
back at F, in the way shown by Fig. 24. Fill the spaces with a 
few flowers, or cut the roll in 4, put a portion in each, and just 
a flower or two. This pattern placed the reverse way on the plate 
also looks well, the dinner roll in the center outside, Fig. 23 ; it 
requires the napkin to be very stiff, and exact in the folding. In 
Fig. 22 the bread is to be placed underneath. 

The Mitre. — First fold the napkin in half ; then fold down the 
corners as shown in Fig. 25 ; turn these corners down again, to 
meet in the middle, which is indicated by a dotted line. The nap- 
kin now looks like Fig. 26. Fold this in half at the dotted line in 



538 



FOLDING NAPKINS. 



the center, bringing the 2 points back to back, for the fold is 
made outivard. Fig. 27 is the result. Fold over the 2 ends a and 
B, and produce Fig. 28. Let down the point C in Fig. 27, and fold 
the corners inside it ; fold back C in its place again, turn the napkin 
over, and let down the point like C on the other side. The napkin 
now resembles Fig. 29. Fold it down at the dotted lines, turning 
the points A and B toward C. Fig. 30 is the figure now represented ; 
D is the point let down ; turn it up again to E; slip the hand inside 
the hollow underneath the napkin, and shape the mitre nicely, and 
then place it over the dinner roll, like Fig. 31. 





Fig. 26. 






Fig. 25. 



Fig. 23. 






Fig. 22. Fig. 23. Fig 29. 

The Shell. — This is another very pretty and marked device. 
Lay the napkin flat on a table, and fold two sides to meet in the 
center lengthways, like Fig. 36; fold it across the center, and bring 
the side A A to meet the side B B. The hems are kept inside in this 
fold. The long, narrow piece thus formed must be folded in six 
equal pieces, and pressed close. It now resembles Fig. 44. Partly 
open it, and turn down the tops of the folds all along where the 
fold is double, in the manner shown by Fig. 35. Some can turn 



FOLDING NAPKINS. 



539 



these down better if the lower end is kept close like a fan. When 
these corners are turned down, draw the end together, and pinch it 
firmly as a fan, and then set it upright on the plate, the two end 
folds level with the plate, like Fig. 32, If properly done, it stands 




Fig. 44. 




Mlllllllllll II lllllllllllllllllllllill 



^ _ Fig- 36. 

Fig. 35- 
well. It is a very pretty addition to put alternately in each scallop 
of the shell a small flower and a leaf. Scarlet geraniums look 
exceedingly well. 

The Victoria Regia. — Fold a napkin in half, and again in 
half, lengthways, keeping the hems to the edge ; fold it a third 
time, also lengthways ; then set it in twelve folds, like Fig. 44, as 
the shell was made, only the napkin is now only half the width, 
and there are twice as many folds. The corners are turned down 
(Fig. 35) as they were for the shell, beginning with the first hem ; 
undo the plaits as little as possible; turn the first hem completely 
back, to make the first row of petals; turn back the second hem the 





Fig. 40. 



Fig. 53. 



same way, not quite so far; then turn down the first fold, which 
comes next, to form petals to meet those already made. The last 
fold is not turned down (see Fig. 40V Bring the two ends of the 
napkin together to form a round ; the inner edges are thus forced 



540 



FOLDING NAPKINS. 



up as a heart. A rosette is the figure formed, and the rosette rep- 
resents the Victoria Regia (Fig. 33). A few small flowers, or even 
a small rose, look well arranged in the center. This shape is diffi- 
cult to make, and requires very stiff damask. The petals need to 
be nicely set with the fingers to resemble it. 





Fig. 34. 



Fig. 33- 





Fig. 48. 



Fig. 52. 



To fold Fig. 58. Fold the napkin 4 times lengthways. Fold 
down one end as observed at A in Fig. 34 — not to the center by a 
couple of inches. Fold again at the dotted line B. Roll the end A 
as shown at C. Fig. 48 illustrates the process. Fig. 58 shows the 
complete design. 



FOLDING NAPKINS. 



541 



The Tiara. — Double the napkin 4 times lengthways. Fold 
down each corner, as shown in Fig. 39. Then fold by the lines 
across C D, and represent Fig. 53. Push the folds close together. 
c ^ S. 




Fig. 53. 



Fold in half at the center line, and tuck in the corners. Open the 
design by placing the hand inside. It must resemble Fig. 52 
when complete. 



CHAPTKR XXIV. 



RECEPTIONS AND ENTERTAINMENTS. 



BREAKFAST PARTIES. 

Breakfast parties are a very convenient mode of social entertain- 
ment for those whose limited means will not admit of a more 
extensive display of hospitality. 

Costly repasts are not necessarily the best ; the dining-room 
may be so pleasant, the table so dainty and tasteful, the welcome 
so sincere, that a very unassuming meal may be rendered indescrib- 
ably charming, and a breakfast given in very simple style, while 
much less expensive than a dinner, and even less formal than a 
luncheon, may be made quite as enjoyable as either, as guests 
usually partake of it before spoiling the appetite by an earlier home 
meal. 

The breakfast hour in America is always earlier than in France 
or England, where a first breakfast is taken in a very light form, 
and is from 9 to I2 o'clock, the former being preferred by most 
people unless upon the occasion of very fashionable affairs. 

Invitations to breakfast are written and sent several days 
beforehand ; they may be an informal note or simply written on the 
lady's visiting cards under the name in this form : 

Breakfast, Tuesday to o'clock, 
February 15. 

Like all other invitations these require a prompt and courteous 
reply. 

Ver}^ formal breakfasts call for more ceremonious invitations, 
which like those to dinners or large parties shonld be engraved on 
handsome paper. 

The unceremoniousness of this early repast requires the appear- 
ance of extreme simplicity, but flowers are in good taste, and 

542 



RECEPTIONS AND ENTERTAINMENTS. 



543 



prettily arranged with fruits give the table a fresh and attractive 
look. The table-cloth and napkins should be of fine white damask, 
or they may be bordered in colors to match the color of the dining- 
room. 

In serving breakfast, the bill of fare, unless for special occasions, 
should never be elaborate, but rather dainty and attractive, fewer 
courses of a more delicate variety should be served than at other 
meals. The hostess dispenses the coffee, tea and chocolate from 
the head of the table ; the substantial are set in front of the host, 
who may help the plates and hand them to the waiter to serve ; the 
vegetables and other dishes may be handed from the side table. 

It is well bred to serve the breakfast with as little formality as 
possible, and with as few attendants ; i servant, a maid, or man 
servant is sufficient unless the party is unusually large. The fol- 
lowing will be found an acceptable bill of fare for an ordinary break- 
fast party. It can of course be varied to suit the convenience and 
taste of housekeepers: 

Melons. Grapes. Oranges. 

Fried Perch with Sauce Tartare. 

Young Chicken with Cream Gravy. 

Dutchess Potatoes 

Poached Egg on Toast. 

Broiled Quails. 

Baked Mushrooms. Tomatoes or Celery. 

Bread and Butter. Crackers. 

Hot Cakes. 
Coffee. Tea. Chocolate. 

The simplest costume is in good taste for breakfast parties. 
Gentlemen wear walking suits, and ladies handsome but plain street 
costumes. Gloves are removed before going to the table. 

Each gentleman is given the escort of a lady. The host con- 
ducts the lady who is the most distinguished guest to the table, 
and the hostess follows with the gentleman whom it is desired to 
honor particularly. 



544 RECEPTIONS AND ENTERTAINMENTS. 

Upon entering the dining-room the ladies are assisted to their 
seats, and the gentlemen then follow, and the meal is served. 

The signal for rising from the table is given by the hostess, 
with a smile and simple bow, and all proceed to the parlor, exchange 
a few pleasant remarks, and take their leave. 

For informal breakfasts no after-call is expected, but for cere- 
monious entertainments of this kind the same observance of the 
rules of etiquette are required as for dinners and large parties. 

FORMAL DINNERS. 

The rules which regulate dinner-giving are generally very well 
established, and have been adopted from both England and France, 
with the addition of some of our own national customs. 

The first consideration in giving a dinner is a judicious selection 
of guests, as without it, little enjoyment can be expected. The 
object of the hostess should be to bring together persons of equal 
intellectual attainments and mutual sympathies ; it is not necessary 
that they should all be friends, but simply congenial from common 
tastes and ideas. 

A writer on the subject says: " Good talkers are invaluable, and 
good listeners indispensable." 

The dinner is more especially the entertainment of married and 
older people, but youth, always charming, adds an attraction that 
comes only by the mingling of different ages. 

For formal dinings, invitations are issued in the name of the host 
and hostess from i week to lO days in advance. Very fashionable 
people send them by messenger, and the answer should be returned 
in the same way whenever possible. 

Promptness is required in accepting or declining an invitation, 
that the hostess may know the number of her expected guests. 

Many persons who entertain a great deal use an engraved card, 
the name of the host and hostess on one line, with the request in 
smaller letters, with blanks left for the name of the guest, below 
which are others for the date and the hour of the dinner. The 
following is a very good form : 



receptions and entertainments. 545 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Madison 
request the pleasure of 



company at dinner 



On. 



at Six o'clock. 



Or, if preferred, the invitation may be all printed on handsome 
note paper, on which a monogram or the family crest may be 
placed, as well as on the envelope. 

If the entertainment is given in honor of a friend, or visitor, a 
second card should accompany the invitation, on which is inscribed 

To meet 

Col. and Mrs. Robert Lawson 

of New York, 

or the name of the guest may be engraved on the invitation. 
The acceptance of an invitation may be written as follows: 

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Grey 

accept with pleasure 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Madison's 

invitation to dinner at Six o'clock, 

Thursday, March 2ist. 

Tne note of refusal may be in a similar style. 

Etiquette requires guests to arrive 10 or 15 minutes before 
the dinner hour, thus giving time for introductions and friendly 
greetmgs. 

To be late is an unpardonable breach of good manners. 

Tne hostess should not be expected to wait for an absent guest 
after dinner has been announced, as to do so would be rudeness to 
the /^sit of the company. 

35 



546 RECEPTIONS AND ENTERTAINMENTS. 

Much tact may be displayed in arranging the seats of the con». 
pany, so each may have suitable companionship during the meal; 
to do this, have a card handed to each gentleman containing his 
own name and that of the lady whom he is to escort to dinner. If 
the guests are few in number, the hostess, when receiving a gentle- 
man, may name his partner at dinner. 

On the plate of each guest should be a card, containing the 
name, and with it the vic7iii card, which may be plain or elaborate 
in design. If written, it should be done with elegance and taste. 
The menus may be in English or French as the fancy dictates, buf. 
unless the guests are known to understand the latter language, we 
think it a display of affectation to make use of it. 

There are two methods of serving dinner, the French and the 
Russian — the former being to set the various dishes on the table to 
be served by the host and hostess, and handed to the guests by the 
servants, and the latter is served from the side table, each course 
brought separately, the table being handsomely ornamented. 

If waiters are well trained, i to every 6 persons is sufificient 
They should wear thin-soled shoes, and move as noiselessly as pos- 
sible. " Nothing so distinguishes the style of perfectly-appointed 
establishments from vulgar imitations as the quiet self-possessed 
movements of the attendants." 

If the host is a graceful carver, at dinners not too large, he ma^ 
do the carving, but if not expert in this art, it is best that he 
should not attempt it but leave it to a servant. When more than 
I meat is served the most substantial should come first, and tne 
roast should precede the boiled. After roast comes entrees. 

With game, jelly is always served. After salads, cheese. 

The order of dessert is pastry or pudding, ices, fruits, nuts, 
raisins, bonbons. 

Two kinds of animal food should never be eaten from the same 
plate. More than 2 kinds of vegetables should not be served with 
a course. 

Plates should not be helped too abundantly, as to do so is very 
ill-bred. 



RECEPTIONS AND ENTERTAINMENTS. 547 

INFORMAL DINNERS. 

Small informal dinners, given with simplicity, are very enjoya- 
ble, and much better suited to the circumstances of the generality 
of housekeepers than the elaborate affairs which are given at a 
large outlay, and are consequently within the reach only of wealthy 
people. 

It is pleasant to gather our friends about us, and to entertain 
them Avith the utmost courtesy, but it should always be within our 
means. If the simplest meal is well cooked and daintily served it 
will be acceptable, and the hospitality that offers it will be appre- 
ciated. 

If an informal dinner, such dishes as can be easily prepared, and 
are sure to be a success, are most satisfactory, and it is really more 
elegant to have small dinners appear to the guests as quiet, uncere- 
monious affairs than to impress them by the ostentatious variety 
that cannot fail to show the effort it costs. 

The arrangements of the table and rules observed by host, 
hostess and guests, are the same for small as for formal dinings, but 
of course may be modified to suit the occasion and circum- 
stances. 

Flowers and seasonable fruits are used to decorate the table, and 
are alike appropriate for grand or simple entertainments. 

The following bills of fare will assist inexperienced house- 
keepers in preparing small dinners : 

Julienne Soup. 

Oysters a La Creme. 

Roast Lamb, Mint Sauce. 

Pease. Mashed Potatoes. Spinach. Egg Sauce. Celery Sal/,<jf. 

Wafers. • Cheese. 

Strawberry Bavarian Cream. 

Coffee. 



54& RECEPTIONS AND ENTERTAINMENTS. 

Consomme. 

Fried Cuts of Fish, Tomato Sauce. 

Fricandeau of Veal, Brown Sauce. 

Broiled Tomatoes. String Beans. Potatoes a La Bechamel. Corn. 

Cucumber Salad. 

Wafers. Cheese. 

Paris Pudding. 

Coffee. 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS. 



LUNCHEON. 

The hour for luncheon may vary from 12 to 2 o'clock, though 
the English send invitations to lunch as late as 5 o'clock. 

Invitations to small luncheons are usually very informal, and 
may be written in the style of a familiar note of friendship; or a 
visiting card may be used underneath the name of which is simply 
written : 

Luncheon at 12 o'clock, 
Thursday, January 8. 

The repast may be elaborately made up of salads, oysters, small 
game, chocolate, ices and a variety of dishes which will destroy the 
appetite for dinner, or it may simply consist of a cup of tea or 
chocolate, thin sliced bread and butter, chip beef or cold tongue, 
but there is the same opportunity to display good taste, and a well- 
appointed table as at a grander entertainment. 

Ladies attend in handsome walking costumes. 

Luncheons of ceremony are sometimes given in honor of dis- 
tinguished guests, or upon special occasions, instead of dinners, and 
may then be very stylish affairs. Flowers should be artistically 
arranged, both for the adornment of the parlor and dining-room 
and the table more sumptuous, though always dainty; broiled 
delicacies, such as do not require carving, take the place of joints, 
and too rich dishes, with salads, oysters, croquettes and ices* 



RECEPTIONS AND ENTERTAINMENTS, 549 

bouillon is very generally served at large or small lunches, as is also 
chocolate with whipped cream. The table may be decorated with 
flowers and fruit as a center-piece around which should be placed 
glass dishes of fancy cakes, bonbons and preserves. The table- 
cloth and napkins are usually colored, but of the handsomest quality. 

At very formal luncheons each dish is served as a separate 
course. Instead of coffee being served in the drawing-room, as after 
dinner, the hostess dispenses it at the luncheon table. 

The invitations to fashionable, elaborate luncheons should be 
handsomely engraved after the following style: 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Lee 
request the pleasure of your company 

at Luncheon, 
Thursday, December 10, at 4 o'clock. 

The toilets of the ladies attending should be elegant, and 
always appropriate to the occasion. 

The hostess usually leads the way to the table, keeping the most 
distinguished guest at her right, the others following and seating 
themselves as they choose. Guests are not expected to remain 
longer than half an hour after they return to the parlors. 

Calls are a polite acknowledgement after receiving hospitalities, 
and should be made within a few days after the entertainment. 

TEAS. 

The tea parties of our grandmothers* days, copied from the high 
teas of their English ancestors is a very old fashion, now very 
generally revived among some of our best people, by whom they 
are made very enjoyable occasions. 

The table should be spread with a white cloth, fruit and flowers 
in stands, berries and peaches in their season in cut glass bowls, 
rich cream in glass, or small silver pitchers, dainty orange or ginger 
preserves in cut-glass dishes, and all these supplemented with 
muffins, waffles or cream toast. Delicately-broiled partridges, or 



550 RECEPTIONS AND ENTERTAINMENTS. 

spring chickens set in covered dishes is the only substantial dish 
admissible. 

Tea and coffee should be served by the hostess from one end of 
the table. 

At small informal teas, the servants in attendance, retire after 
the fruit is served, leaving the guests to chat without restraint over 
the cheery cup. 

Teas are usually given at 5 or 6 o'clock, and the invitation is 
simply written on the lower left hand corner of the ladies' visiting 
card. 

Five o'clock tea, 
Tuesday, January 5. 

A pretty custom has recently been introduced of colored teas. 
Pink teas, blue, or white teas. 

For housekeepers preparing their own dishes for luncheons and 
teas the following receipts are given : 

LUNCHEON. 
Raw Oysters. 

Bouillon. 
Sweet-Breads. 
Lamb Chops, Tomato Sauce. 

Chicken Croquettes, French Pease. 

Snipe. Escaloped Potatoes, 

Salad of Lettuce. 

Cheese, Milk Wafers, Toasted. 

Ice Cream, Fancy Cikes. 

Fruit. 

LUNCHEON. 

Broiled Partridge. 

Oyster Pie. Cold Ham. 

Peach or Pear Pickles. Biscuit and Tongue Sandwiches. 

Pound and Fruit Cake. Pyramids of Jelly. 

Blanc-Mange. Snow Sponge Cake. 

Pine-apple Ice. 

Kisses. Macaroons. Ice Cream. 



RECEPTIONS AND ENTERTAINMENTS. 551 

TEA. 

Tea and Coffee and Chocolate. 

Raised Biscuits. 

Oyster Sanawiches. Chicken Salad. Cold Tongue. 

Cake and Preserved Peaches. 

Ice Cream. 

TEA. 

Tea and Coffee. 

Fried Oysters. Muffins. 

Sliced Broiled Chicken's Breast. 

Cold Biscuits. 

Sardines and Sliced Lemons. 

Thin Sliced Bread. Sliced Tongue. 

Cake in variety. 

HIGH TEA. 

For such an entertainment, guests are usually invited at any time 
from 6 to 8 o'clock p. m., with the understanding that they are to 
remain the rest of the evening. In cities, dress coats and light 
gowns are considered essential, but in small towns or in the country, 
gentlemen may appear in Prince Alberts, and ladies in pretty after- 
noon or evening costumes. The invitations may be either verbal 
or written, and are informal. 

Small tables are generally used, of a size to accommodate from 
4 to 6 persons apiece. The tables are covered with large napkins 
and spread with plates, knives, forks, spoons, glasses and napkins. 
Each should bear salt and pepper cruets, sugar-bowl and creamer. 
It is an excellent plan, in setting the table, to give each guest 2 or 
3 forks, knives and spoons — in short, all the silver required for the 
successive courses, if the state of the family plate will allow this. 
It saves much time and trouble in changing the silver. 

A roll or a thick Y^ slice of bread should be laid between the 
folds of each napkin. This should be placed at the left side of the 
plate, the knives with their edges from the plate, in a row on the 



552 RECEPTIONS AND ENTERTAINMENTS. 

right, and beyond them, the forks, while the spoons are laid above 
the plate, at right angles with the other silver. The glasses should 
be filled beforehand, to save as much time as possible when the 
real business of eating begins. Where there are 2 rooms, such as a 
dining-room and parlor, or 2 parlors, the tables can be laid in one 
room, while the guests are assembling in the other. Often, how- 
ever, the hostess can command but i large room in which to enter- 
tain her friends. In this case, the little tables can be brought in by 
a servant and spread in the presence of the guests without the 
least breach of propriety. After the meal is over the dishes are 
quickly carried out on trays and the tables either taken from the 
room or left where they stand for cards or any of the many popular 
pencil and paper games that are pleasant at such gatherings. 

In seating guests, judgment must be used. The places may be 
marked by cards, bearing the names of those who are to occupy 
them. The dainty, hand-painted cards, with appropriate designs 
and mottoes, add to the beauty of the table and set the conversa- 
tional ball rolling, besides furnishing pretty souvenirs. If these are 
not attainable, plain cards may be used, or the hostess may inform 
her guests with whom they are to sit. 

There are many attractive menus that can be suggested for teas, 
but the following seems to demand as little home labor for satisfac- 
tory results as any other. The word tea, by the way, is something 
of a misnomer, as at these entertainments the beverages are almost 
invariably cofTee or chocolate, or both, tea being left entirely out of 
the question. 

Bouillon. 

Bread. Crackers. Celery. 

Pickled Oysters. Chicken Salad. 

Pinard Sandwiches. 

Olives. Salted Almonds. 

Chocolate. Coffee. 

Ice Cream. 

Fancy Cakes. 

Fruit. 

Serve the bouillon in cups, and be sure that it is very hot. Have 



RECEPTIONS AND ENTERTAINMENTS. 553 

a thin slice of lemon floating on the surface of each cup. Pass 
crackers — the Zephyr or Snowflake brands are the best — with this, 
and choice blanched celery. If the tables are set before the guests 
arrive, it is well to have a couple of short stalks of celery laid at 
each plate, and save that amount of waiting. Have each cup and 
saucer set in a plate, and take all 3 pieces off at once. Either 
tea or coffeecups may be used, and it is, of course, unnecessary to 
have them match. Harlequin sets are a charming device for people 
of slender means, who have to pick up their pretty china here and 
there, a bit at a time. 

The pickled oysters, with not too much liquor, may either be 
served on the same plate with the salad, or separately. Glass or 
china dishes may hold the salad and oysters. Forks should be used 
with this course. The sandwiches must be neatly piled on fringed 
napkins on bread plates, and must be passed several times, and the 
olives and salted almonds may fill small glass dishes. The olives 
may be helped with a fork or spoon, or with the fingers; the 
almonds may be served with spoons. The coffee and chocolate 
should be poured out at a side table and sugar and cream passed 
with them to each person. 

The ice cream should also be served off the table and passed in 
the plate or saucer from which it is to be eaten. The cakes should 
be prettily arranged in a cake-dish, with a doyi<^y under them. 
The fruit should be placed on a flat salver, as high-piled dishes are 
apt to be top-heavy and difificult to pass. Oranges, bananas, grapes 
— the last cut into rather small bunches — make a pretty array. 
Each guest must be supplied with a fruit-plate, doyley, finger 
bowl, fruit-knife, and fork or spoon. 

EVENING PARTIES AND RECEPTIONS. 

The evening party is usually an elaborate and costly affair, 
attended with all the formalities and ceremonies of fashionable 
society, and is the most enjoyable form of entertainment for young 
people. 

The invitation to an evening party is given in the name of the 
host and hostess, and the form is as follows : 



554 RECEPTIONS AND ENTERTAINMENTS. 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Adams 

•-equest the pleasure of your company 

Thursday Evening, December 15, 

At 9 o'clock. 

Dancirv^ at 11. Chestnut Street. 

It is not considered good taste to use one card for all the mem- 
Idcts of a family. One envelope may be addressed Mr. and Mrs. 
James Crawford, one to the Misses Crawford, if there are more 
daughters than one, but each young gentleman of the household 
should receive a separate invitation. 

For replying this form may be used : 

Mr. and Mrs. James Crawford 

accept with pleasure 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Adams' 
kind invitation for December 15. 
28 Henton Avenue. 

The reply to an invitation should be prompt, and always within 
three days of its reception. If compelled to decline an invitation 
the regret may be expressed as follows : 

Mr. and Mrs. James Crawford 

regret that they cannot accept 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Adams' 

kind invitation for the 15th, owing to illness 

in their family. 
28 Henton Avenue. 

When possible it is best to state the cause for not being able to 
accept an invitation ; otherwise to do so may seem rude. 

The failure to accept an invitation does not relieve one from the 
obligation of an after call. 

Special preparations are requisite for a party. An awning, to 
provide against bad weather should be placed at the entrance, 
also carpet spread from the hall door to the carriages to protect 



RECEPTIONS AND ENTERTAINMENTS. 555 

ladies' dresses and thinly-clad feet. A dressing-room for ladies as 
well as gentlemen should be in readiness, with servants in attendance. 

The host does not receive with the hostess, but mingles among 
the guests, seeing that each lady has her share of attention, with 
delicate tact. 

When the hostess is receiving no one remains beside her, except 
members of the family who receive with her, or such friends as she 
has requested to assist. 

If there are young ladies in the family they should see to the 
guests, never dancing while other ladies are unprovided with 
partners. The young gentlemen are expected to be equally watch- 
ful, and should remember the pleasure of the company should be 
their first consideration. After ladies have re-adjusted their toilets 
in the dressing-rooms they should join their escorts, who conduct 
them to the parlors. After greeting the hostess in a few simple 
words of kind inquiry, guests are at liberty to walk about, enjoy- 
ing music, or conversation with their friends. Young gentlemen, 
after greeting the hostess, may say to her that it will afford them 
pleasure to be presented to her lady friends, and dance with those 
who are without partners. Strange gentlemen may also ask to be 
presented to ladies who will dance with them. 

It is customary with well-bred young men to invite the young 
ladies of the house for the first dance. 

Gentlemen who are introduced to young ladies for the dance are 
not entitled to and must not expect recognition afterwards, as such 
acquaintances need go no further unless the parties meet more 
frequently. 

After dancing with a lady a gentleman may offer his arm, con- 
duct her to a seat, and thank her for the pleasure she has con- 
ferred on him, when he is at liberty to withdraw. 

It is not expected that guests should take leave of their hostess 
when ready to depart. All that is required is a bow upon entering 
the room. 

When supper is announced at a party the gentleman should 
invite the lady he is in conversation with, or the one with whom he 



556 RECEPTIONS AND ENTERTAINMENTS. 

has danced last, to accompany him to the table, and no lady is at 
hberty to refuse the escort of a gentleman to supper. 

The supper-table should be handsomely ornamented with flowers, 
fruits, silver and glass, and well supplied with suitable delicacies, 
which may be served all the evening, or if the hostess prefers, the 
dining-room is not opened until 12 o'clock, when the gentleman of 
the house should lead the way with the most distinguished lady, 
and the hostess follow last, with the gentleman on whom the high- 
est honor is to be conferred. Some ladies do not go to supper until 
all their guests are served. Early light refreshments are frequently 
provided by very thoughtful hostesses in another room aside from 
the supper-room, for those not wishing a heavy supper, and should 
consist of sandwiches, small cakes, iced coffee and tea, with bouillon. 
The following bill of fare maybe found useful, and by beginning 
in time may be prepared without a great deal of trouble: 

Stewed Oysters. 

Escaloped Chicken. Terrapin. 

Vol au Vent of Sweet-Bread. 

Salmon, Mayonnaise Sauce. Galantine of Turkey. 

Lobster Salad. 

Chicken Salad. 

Orange Jelly. Whipped Jelly with Fruits. 

Fresh Fruits. 
Bisque Ice Cream. Pistachio Ice Cream. 
Cakes. 
Bouillon. 

RECEPTIONS. 

Evening receptions being simpler in detail than parties, ar€ 
becoming more fashionable every year, especially among people of 
literary and artistic tastes, and are quite as brilliant as a special 
entertainment, with little ceremony, and very moderate cost. 

For informal receptions, invitations are most frequently written 
on the left-hand corner of the hostess' visiting card: 



receptions and entertainments. 557 

Mrs. Charles Grey, 
Thursday, 

from 5 to 8 o clock. 

At an evening reception, tlie lady should be dressed in handsome 
home toilet, and receive standing. If several ladies receive to- 
gether, their cards should be enclosed with the invitation. The 
simplicity of the occasion leaves the hostess the more time to 
devote to the enjoyment of her guests. 

Refreshments are generally served informally. The table should 
be set tastily in the dining-room, and supplied with coffee or choco- 
late at one end, and a tea service at the other. Besides these, 
daintily-prepared sandwiches, buns, cakes, ices and fruits are served. 
The fact that few guests can be anything but indifferent to food at 
the afternoon hour seems to point to simplicity as in good taste 
for the refreshment table. If the reception is very select, and the 
number of guests small, a servant presents a tray with tea, sugar 
and cream, while another follows with the simple refreshments that 
should accompany it. 

A wedding reception, or a very elaborate evening reception, of 
course admits of much more ceremony, as well as more substantial 
refreshments, than small entertainments, particularly in the country, 
or rural village, but courtesy and high-breeding are never out of 
place, whether the occasion be formal or informal. 

Introductions, as a rule, are not made at receptions, and are not 
deemed necessary for unrestrained conversation, they are, however, 
permitted when mutually desired, and may be given by a friend or 
by the hostess. 

Ladies attend evening receptions in demi toilette, with or with- 
out bonnets, and gentlemen in full morning dress. 

Invitations to evening receptions, lawn, croquet or musical 
parties, are informal, but require an answer, as it is agreeable to 
every hostess to know the number of her expected guests. 

Hospitably-inclined people, who are deterred from entertaining 
on account of the expense of larjge suppers and fashionable parties. 



558 RECEPTIONS AND ENTERTAINMENTS. 

\vill find the evening reception a sociable and convenient style of 
entertainment. 

Residents of large cities, possessing abundant means, can avoid 
trouble by ordering supplies from the professional caterer, but in 
the country home or remote village, where economy is an object, it 
devolves upon the housekeeper to prepare the appetizing dainties 
for her entertainments, and with a little practice, and attention to 
the art of cooking, any woman can soon make many of the most 
difficv'lt dishes, at half the cost, at which she could buy them. 

For the benefit of such we give the following 

MENU: 

Boned Turkey. Escaloped Oysters. Shrimp Salad. 

Lunch Sandwiches. Pickles. 

Tutti-Frutti Cake. Sponge Cake. 

Lemon Jelly. 

Russian Cream. 

Chocolate. Coffee. 




C3 



CHAPTER XXV. 



OUT-DOOR PARTIES AND PICNICS. 



GARDEN AND LAWN PARTIES. 

One of the most agreeable forms of summer entertainments in 
the country', or at suburban residences, where the charm of nature 
spreads over the whole scene, is the garden or lawn party. 

In remote country localities these parties are very delightful, 
particularly if city friends are guests for the summer, as the per- 
fume of roses, the odor of clover blossoms, and the rustic surround- 
ings, are charming and diverting to the denizens of the busy world 
who are tired of the artificial life of society. 

When properly conducted a garden party may be given with 
very little trouble, and made very simple and informal, but if 
desired may be quite elaborate and ceremonious. 

When only neighbors are to be entertained, a hasty invitation, 
so as to be sure of fine weather, may be sent 2 or 3 days in advance, 
but when guests are expected from any distance it is customary to 
send invitations 8 or 10 days in advance. 

These invitations are usually engraved on handsome, plain note 
paper, and may be in this form : 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Leigh 

request the pleasure of 

Mrs. Morton's 

Company on Thursday, the Fifth of August, 

at 3 o'clock. 

Garden Party. Maple Grove. 

When guests are to come by rail, it is well to send a card stating 
the hours at which trains arrive and leave the station. 

At a garden party the hostess receives her guests on the lawn, 

559 



560 OUT-DOOR PARTIES AND PICNICS. 

or in the garden, wearing her hat and gloves. But guests should 
always be invited to the house to take off their wraps, or arrange 
their toilet, if desired. 

The thoughtful hostess will take care to have everything in 
readiness for the comfort and entertainment of the company. Rugs 
should be laid on the grass for the accommodation of those not 
accustomed to standing on the ground, and easy chairs provided 
for delicate and aged ladies who may be present, so all may enjoy 
the party without fear of the consequence. 

Much tact is required to properly entertain guests at a garden 
party, and prevent them from wandering aimlessly about the 
grounds. Ample amusements must, therefore, be provided. 

The lawn-tennis ground must be in perfect order, croquet sets in 
readiness, archery tools supplied, as well as arrangements for all 
kinds of suitable games made. 

Ladies wear hats or bonnets at a garden party, and should dress 
otherwise appropriately. If a plain, informal affair, the dress 
should be simple and becoming, and if games like lawn tennis or 
archery are among the amusements, light flannel dresses are suit- 
able. But if invited to a ceremonious lawn party, where style will 
prevail, handsome though simple toilets are required. Picturesque 
costumes may be made very effective on the grass and under the 
trees, and ladies of taste have a fine field for displaying it upon 
such occasions. 

Many very fashionable people conduct the garden party in the 
style of an afternoon tea, receiving and entertaining their guests in 
the open air until ready to serve refreshments, when all are invited 
to the dining-room to partake of them. 

When the refreshments are to be served in the garden or lawn, 
of course the dishes must all be cold, and may consist of salads, 
pates, pressed meats, Charlottes, jellies, ices, cakes, lemonade and 
iced tea. A cup of hot tea should always be in readiness in the 
kitchen for those ladies desiring it. 

Numbers of small tables, with pretty, fancy covers, and colored 
napkins, should be set around under trees, near fountains and 



OUT-DOOR PARTIES AND PICNICS. 561 

other suitable places, with camp-stools for the accommodation of 
guests when partaking of the refreshments. 

Gentlemen may help the ladies, if they prefer, and wait on 
themselves, requiring the servants only to remove the dishes, and 
replenish the pitchers with lemonade, milk, or water. 

Fruits and berries are served at garden parties, and should be of 
the finest quality. ♦ 

Ices are a very acceptable addition to an outdoor entertainment, 
being light and refreshing for warm weather ; they are served in 
fancy paper-cups, laid on ice-plates. 

For ladies desiring to give garden parties, the following bill of 
fare will be found sufificient : 

Cold Rolls. Mixed Sandwiches. 

Brown Bread. Pickled Tongue. 

Jellied Chicken. 

Cold Birds. Lobster Salad. 

Charlotte Russe. 

Biscuits Glaces. Fancy Cakes. 

Fruits. 

Lemonade. Ice Tea. 

CAMPING OUT. 



If you dwell by the sea, choose some inland spot of lonely love- 
liness. If your home is upon a lowland, climb a mountain when 
your welcome hour for camping and freedom has arrived. Make a 
literal and positive translation of your locality, occupations, modes 
of dressing, eating, sleeping, and reading. If your ordinary exis- 
tence is spent among books, take to boating, climbing, and even to 
cooking, rather than carrying along your habits of prying into 
scientific mysteries or of searching after the deep roots of a dead 
and dusty language. If you desire to read, you must choose novels 
that are composing, natural, and eaid up agreeably. You will dis- 
cover many a devoted story-reader who will tell you what books to 
procure. Those with sweet, steady-going characters, that do not 

36 



562 OUT-DOOR PARTIES AND PICNICS. 

harrow up your wearied and over-sensitive nerves, are the best 
healers and composers of the jangle which has fallen upon your 
system or your brains. If your adviser is an habitual devourer of 




fiction and expresses a distaste for certain books because they are 
flavorless, take our advice, and, whether you are man or woman, be 
sure to make choice of these very novels, because they are just 
what you really require under the circumstances. They lead you 
away from yourself through agreeable and slumberous by-ways 



OUT-DOOR PARTIES AND PICNICS. 563 

into perfect tranquillity, which in your working seasons you might 
possibly consider only another name for semi-idiocy. 

The man who is to plunge into the woods and really forget his 
worn-out self, should be sure not to forget his worn-out clothes. 
See that your trowsers are easy, neatly mended, strong as to but- 
tons, and not too dark nor yet too light, lest your sense of the value 
of cleanliness make intimacies with mud too unpleasantly noticeable. 

Should picturesqueness be a pleasure to your senses, select low, 
easy shoes, with wide, thick soles, and fiat heels. Wear red or blue 
stockings of worsted, a gray mixed flannel shirt or blouse, and a 
broad, red or blue belt, according to your hosiery. Then get a gray, 
soft felt hat with a wide brim, a water-proof Mackintosh and a 
woollen ulster, and you are dressed. Of course, you may carry 
rubber boots with high tops, and a water-proof cap with an attached 
Havelock, so that you can defy Jupiter Pluvius and even the deluge 
itself if it come back and you have not been chosen to re-enact the 
drama of Noah and his Ark. 

If you are a woman, your oldest winter dress, abbreviated at its 
hem, re-bound neatly and firmly, and loosened at its waist, should 
be taken along for scrambles over muddy places, and for boating, 
when bailing out the craft becomes one of the formalities. On 
rainy days will this gown also prove its loyalty and efficiency for 
your needs. Then you must have a fresh costume for beauty's 
sake, and so that your guide and cook (a combination of accom- 
plishments seldom or never dissociated) will write limp-footed and 
ill-spelled verses to you, that shall combine, in about equal propor- 
tions, maudlin sentimentality and poor grammar. These droll 
apostrophes, generally inscribed on birch bark, will do you no end 
of good. You will think better of yourself, and will the easier over- 
look many little culinary mistakes which your Avilderness adorer 
will be sure to make semi-occasionally. 

A gray pressed flannel that is clearly a mixture of black and 
white, a deep green that is dark-hued and a first cousin to the oak- 
leaf, a brown that learned to be pretty from the deepest brown of 
the chestnut, and a blue which the sailor dearly loves, are the 
proper colors for gowns during a forest loitering. A hat like the 



564 OUT-DOOR PARTIES AND PICNICS. 

dress goods, with a soft Derby crown and a brim that is cut in som- 
brero fashion, with a sufficient number of rows of stitching about 
it to hold it in proper but not stiff position, is both fashionable and 
comfortable. Gloves of wash-leather, long and loose-wristed, are a 
comfort and a prettiness; and, if they be of the natural yellow of 
their material, they will not be inharmonious with any shade of 
dress or decorations. The best gown is the dinner and Sunday 
toilette of a wild-wood outing. 

A rubber cloth waterproof, with a hood of the sam^; an Ulster 
for cold days and nights — it is not unusual to sometimes draw this 
garment on over a flannel night-gown; heavy woolen shawls or 
traveling rugs for extra lowerings of the mercury ; stout, low, flat- 
heeled shoes for climbing, and top-boots of rubber for those 
occasional days that will come to mortals even in the most fascinat- 
ing of Arcadias; and little more is needed, save a sensible supply 
of flannel, more or less thick, according to latitude, longitude and 
altitude. Fresh collars and handkerchiefs must be numbered 
according to the domestic accomplishments of the man-of-all-work. 

Two tents are required, if there be ladies in the party — and this 
article is written especially in their interest. Rubber pillows, to be 
blown up at will, and folding camp-cots and camp-chairs, are lux- 
uries that belong to civilization, and few and happy are they who 
are willin"- to forego them. Ingenious and inexpensive inventions 
are busy superseding fresh resinous twigs for bedding, and " mores 
the pity." Hammocks are for those who can keep themselves 
awake during the entire camping season in order that they may not 
fall out of them while they are asleep. These articles are con- 
sidered great luxuries, and certainly they are picturesque, or at 
least pictorial, wherever they are seen swaying between sun and 
shade under the great, green trees. A tent umbrella, for peripatetic 
camping, fishing or sketching, is a comfort during hot days, when 
one must needs go away from the shade of the woods. 

For 6 people the following kitchen articles are required: A 
camp-kettle with cover, for hot water; a 3-qu art .coffee-kettle and a 
2-quart tea-pot ; 2 bake-pans, i frying-pan, i water-pail, 2 cooking- 
forks and 2 cooking-spoons of tinned iron, and, if the party be 



OUT-DOOR PARTIES AND PICNICS. 565 

very fastidious, a gridiron will be a boon. To broil a bird or a fish, 
a pointed stick is the woodman's chief joy. Tin cups, to serve 
coffee, tea and water, are capable of combining these uses nowhere 
else but in the woods, so it is claimed, and tin plates need not be 
numerous, because a dinner eaten by a camp fire is a marvel of 
simplicity and convenience as to the order and formality of its 
courses of food. Knives, forks and spoons should be an individual 
matter, each person of the party carrying, and afterward caring for 
his own personal table-cutlery, just as he looks after his own 
toilette-articles. The big meat-knife and fork serve as the carver 
and fork, and a whet-stone, which improves the hatchet that cuts 
and splits the fuel, is as good and better than a pearl-handled steel 
for improving the edge. A tin or hard-wood pepper-box of the 
same material and perforated in the same way, is very convenient. 
A large box of pulverized charcoal for filtering water after rains is 
a real luxury, which will add safety, as well as satisfaction to 
drinking water. Matches should be kept in corked bottles, and there 
should be rubber-cloth sheets for use during a storm that refuses to 
keep out of the tents while one is making the most of a sleeping 
season. Spread upon the ground, when one desires to lie prone 
upon one's back and enjoy long intervals of dreaminess, with eyes 
wide open and turned upward to the blue that flickers through the 
foliage of the trees, a rubber sheet is a great comfort. 

These things seem to be many in their enumeration, but, after 
all, they are far less in number and cost than the gathering together 
of annual pomps that are novel and vanities that are expensive, 
when one is going to a resort of fashion at midsummer. And 
besides, except one's wardrobe, all these articles remain in stock for 
years to come. They may be compactly arranged and safely and 
cheaply stored with the guide, and if another locality be chosen in 
other years, these summer needs may be quickly transferred by 
order and for a trifling outlay of expressage to some less familiar 
place. 



566 OUT-DOOR PARTIES AND PICNICS. 

PICNICS. 



If the party is to drive or ride, let not the distance be too great. 
There should be a stream or spring of pure water, materials for a 
fire, shade intermingled with sunshine, and a reasonable freedom 
from tormenting insect life. Charming as is the prospect of pic- 
nicing in some grand dell, upon some lofty peak, or in some 
famous cave or legendary ruin, there are also other considerations 
which should not be forgotten. One does not feel too comfortable 
when banqueting in localities where Dame Nature has had her 
queer moods, and has left imprinted certain too observable evi- 
dences of her freakiness. Such places may be included within the 
excursion itself, but let the feast and the frolic take place where 
weird effects are not the prevailing characteristic of the locality. 

Be careful to dress for the entertainment, after consulting the 
barometer and the thermometer, and after learning the geography 
of the objective point of the day. A woolen dress that is not too 
heavy nor yet too new, or a cotton one that is not too thin, with 
short, trim skirts, and no fly-away draperies to entangle and to 
bother ; thick, solid, easy shoes, that have a friendliness for the feet 
because of prolonged intimacy with them ; pretty, but not too fine 
or thin stockings ; a hat that has a broad brim ; a large sun-shade 
or a sun-umbrella ; at least two fresh handkerchiefs; some pins, and 
needle and thread stowed away in ones portcmoruiaie or chatelaine- 
pocket ; easy gloves, with ample wrists ; a jacket to wear when 
returning home ; and a rug or traveling-shawl to spread upon the 
ground at dinner time, are among the requisites of personal com- 
fort and prettiness. 

Two or three hammocks, provided the picnic be in a forest ; a few 
closely-folding camp-chairs, and a spirit-lamp or two for extra tea 
or coffee, are comforts that require no space worth considering, and 
only a little remembrance when packing up, while they really 
increase to a large degree the agreeable flavor of a day in the woods. 

Don't forget two or three book-: that have brief, bright poems or 
narratives in them, for inactive or half-dreamy members of the 



OUT-DOOR PARTIES AND PICNICS. 567 

party, upon whom the spirit of romance and rhythm is sure to fall 
after dinner, provided they do not drop asleep entirely. 

When providing food for the party, pray do not forget to supply 
at least double the quantity which would be served at home for the 
same number of people, and then be sure to add a little more. To 
be hungry, ravenously hungry, while in the woods, proves to us that 
fresh air is wholesome and that nature encourages vigorous appe- 
tites. Therefore, even if they were convenient of transport, soups 
would not be a necessary stimulant to digestion. 

Of fish, cold boiled salmon, upon which a mayonnaise may be 
served at pleasure from a wide-mouthed bottle ; or sardines, accom- 
panied by sardine-scissors, are the easiest to manage, and altogether 
the most satisfactory — but don't forget their intimate friends, the 
lemons. 

About meats, there are many varieties that may be served in the 
woods, but they should always be such as can be arranged for 
finger, rather than fork eating. Nature did not make forks, as is 
frequently asserted ; and, therefore, a picnic is just that agreeable 
sort of free and easy entertainment that is the most charming to 
people who are already wearied with pomps and forms, ceremonies 
and things generally spectacular, and who flee to the woods in print 
dresses and plain uniforms, in order to escape such exactions for a 
little while. In fact, they long to eat food by the aid of their 
fingers. Tiny lamb or veal chops, closely and carefully trimmed, 
dipped in egg and then in crumbs and delicately browned, after 
which their stems are ruffled with paper are delicious when cold, 
and are easy to manage. Chickens, cut up after roasting or broil- 
ing, are excellent and appropriate, but they are not so dainty nor 
so convenient to handle as the papered chops. 

The best and most convenient of all out-of-door edibles, is the 
sandwich. Not the one with slips of meat laid between slices of 
buttered bread, so that when a bite of bread is taken, all the 
enclosed meat is dragged out, unless a serious contest takes place 
in its behalf between the teeth and fingers, which, to confess the 
truth, is not an attractive conflict, as every one will attest who ever 
saw a party of railway-travelers, each at war with one of them, as 



568 OUT-DOOR PARTIES AND PICNICS. 

the train moved out from a way-station where the conductor had 
cried out " 5 minutes for refreshments ! " To make sandwiches that 
leave none but pleasant memories and provoke no temper while 
in transit from the basket to the gastric regions, always grind the 
meat or chop it when cold to very near a pulp. Make a thick may- 
onnaise, and mix it with the meat until it is about the consistency 
of marmalade. Store and carry this most agreeable preparation in 
a covered dish or close jar. If it be rich w^ith good oil, no butter is 
needed. Sometimes, however, butter is beaten in with the meat 
before it is married to the mayonnaise, which gives to the sandwich 
a delicious flavor. Carry along with the meat biscuits or uncut 
loaves of good bread, with sharp knives to slice them evenly and 
thinly; and don't fail to remember what intensity the appetite may 
possess by mid-day, nor yet that, when it is appeased at that hour, 
it frequently renews its strength and comes back again about 4 
o'clock in the afternoon and is as exacting as if it had not been 
appeased for a whole week. These best-of-all sandwiches are made 
ready when they are wanted. They are thus preserved from that 
taste of staleness that comes over them when they have made a 
journey after the meat was joined to the bread. Cold tongue, cold 
roast veal, cold roast beef and cold ham are all of them excellent 
for sandwiches, but the flavoring of salt, mustard, etc., is varied to 
suit the peculiar qualities of each. Tongue and ham possess 
decided qualities of their own, but the other two meats require 
toning-up to suit the palate. Grated pine-apple-cheese, mixed with 
a thick mayojinaise and placed between very thinly cut slices of 
bread, is very much liked by gentlemen. Olives, pickles and jellies 
are easily carried, and prove agreeable additions. 

For desserts, there are many things, but beware of articles that 
will not bear traveling without looking dejected and sullen. Can- 
died fruits with macaroons, sponge or pound cakes, are about the 
most agreeable of all the sweets which are adapted to journeys. 

Small sugared fruits may be purchased of the confectioner, but 
grapes, currants and oranges are easily prepared at home after the 
following manner: Take i cup sugar and I cup water, boil them 
slowly together for 30 minutes, add the juice of i small lemon, and 



OUT-DOOR PARTIES AND PICNICS. 569 

then place the vessel in a basin of hot water to prevent the syrup 
from getting stiff. Dip ripe fruits into it, and lay them upon a 
buttered plate until cold. Currants may be dipped by holding 
them by their stems ; grapes are taken up on the point of a long 
pin, dipped in the sugar, and laid carefully aside to dry. Oranges 
are removed from their skins and pulled apart into as many pieces 
as one likes, and then dipped with the assistance of the pin, after 
the fashion of the grapes. These articles of delicacy are not only 
delicious but decorative. The sections of orange may be arranged 
prettily about the plate, and built up into a cone for the table at 
home ; but at a picnic one depends for beauty mostly upon the 
landscape. Fresh fruits are also agreeable at an out-door feast, 
without coating them with sugar. 

For drinking, tea that has been made, seasoned while hot and 
then bottled directly, is delicious; so, also, is coffee; but both 
these liquids may be made fresh by the fire if one is made in gypsy 
■fashion. For lemonade, roll the fruit in granulated sugar that is 
spread upon a marble or other hard surface, then squeeze them 
over the sugar and remove their seeds; the juice, thus obtained, 
may be bottled for the journey and added to water at pleasure. If 
ice must be carried, select, a clear solid piece, and wrap it in a heavy 
flannel. Carry an ice-pick with it, so that it may be broken up 
when needed, with as little waste as possible. 

One really requires no wine at an al-fresco feast, even if accus- 
tomed to use it at a home dinner. The exhilaration of the air is 
quite sufficient for the needs of digestion. If wine must be carried, 
claret is best, because it is never served with ice, the most fastidious 
of wine-tasters insisting that its flavor is injured if it is not drank 
while of the same temperature as the atmosphere. 

For the feast, forget not the napkins, forks, spoons and the 
luncheon-cloth. Also carry tumblers, plates, salt, pepper, sugar 
and a bottle of cream or a can of condensed milk. Cups with 
handles, but no saucers, are desirable for tea and coffee. 

After a banquet of this delightful sort, the reflection presses 
itself upon the housekeeper and the house-mother, that we have 
over-much service, too extended paraphernalia, and most tiresome 



570 OUT-DOOR PARTIES AND PICNICS. 

formalities that consume our forces every day of our lives, and that 
they are as beautiful as they are utterly needless. From the height 
of our intellects we look contemptuously down on them, but when 
we once more return to these fashions of our living, we bow down 
to them with a sort of fetish reverence. To escape their burdens, 
arrange a picnic once a week so long as the sunshine invites you to 
sit under its beams and the trees have the least array of foliage left 
to wave over you. 

The following bill of fare may be selected from, with such 
changes as suit the locality or general surroundings. 

BILL OF FARE FOR A SPRING PICNIC. 

Cold Roast Chicken. Sandwiches of Potted Rabbit. Bewiched 
Veal. Small Rolls with Salad Filling. Cold Baked Ham. Egg 
Salad. Buttered Rolls. Hard Boiled Eggs. Crackers. Chow 
Chow. Bombay Toast. Pickles. Orange Marmalade. Quince 
Jelly. Sugared Strawberries. White Cake. Almond Cake. Co- 
coanut Jumbles. Lemonade. Tea Cakes. Raspberry Vinegar. 

BILL OF FARE FOR A SUMMER PICNIC. 

Cold Boiled Chicken. Tongue Sandwiches. Spiced Beef. 
Sardines. Jellied Chicken. Pickled Salmon. Spanish Pickles. 
Sweet Peach Pickles. Boston Brown Bread. Beans. Fresh Fruits. 
Imperial Cake. Neapolitan Cake. Small Fancy Cakes. 



CHAPTKR XXVI. 



BUTTER AND CHEESE. 



DAIRY HINTS. 

Any harsh treatment that excites the cow lessens the quantity 
and injures the quality of her yield. Cows should be allowed an 
abundant supply of wholesome, suitable food, and as much pure 
water as they will drink. A supply of salt should be placed where 
they have access to it every day. Cows should not be allowed to 
drink stagnant, impure water, or to eat cleanings from horse stables, 
turnip-tops, or anything that will give the milk an offensive taint. 
All milk vessels should be thoroughly cleansed, first being well 
washed, then scalded with boiling water, and afterwards sufificiently 
aired to keep them perfectly sweet. The cows should be milked 
with dr}^ hands, and only after the udders have been washed or 
well brushed. 

Milking should be done, and milk should be kept only where 
the surrounding air is pure and free from all objectionable and 
tainting odors. Milking in a foul-smelling stable or yard imparts 
to milk an injurious taint. Sour whey should never be fed, nor 
should hogs be kept in a milking-yard, or near a milk-stand. Tin- 
pails only should be used. Milk should be properly strained 
immediately after milking, and for that reason a detached strainer 
is preferable to a strainer-pail. Good ventilation for a milk-house, 
milk-cellar or dairy-room is most essential, and may be provided by 
leading an air-drain under ground for say 200 feet. Through it a 
supply of pure, fresh, cool air may be admitted. The foul or warm air 
may be allowed to escape through the ventilators or windows in or 
near the ceiling. 

Cream should invariably be removed from the milk before the 
milk is sour. The cream for each churning should be gathered 
into and kept in one vessel, and the whole be well stirred every 

571 



572 



BUTTER AND CHEESE. 



time fresh cream is added. In summer it should not be left longer 
than 3 days before churning. The best churning temperatures are 
between 57*^ and 60 "^ during the summer and 60° and 64 '^ dur- 
ing the winter. Butter can be more thoroughly washed free from 
buttermilk while in a granular condition than after it is gathered or 
pressed into a roll. Only the best pure salt of medium and uniform 
fineness of grain should be used, and from ?4^ to i ounce salt per 




pound butter will be found satisfactory for the summer. The 
utmost cleanliness in milking, in utensils and in all surroundings 
can only preserve the flavor and body of milk, cream, butter and 
cheese from contamination. 



TO INCREASE MILK. 

The agricultural editor of the Bee-Keepers' Jourjtalsdiys: " If you 
desire to get a large yield of milk, give your cow, 3 times a day, water, 
slightly warm, slightly salted, in which bran has been stirred at the 
rate of I quart to 2 gallons water. You will find that your cow 
will gain 25 per cent, immediately under the effects of it, and she 
will become so attached to the drink as to refuse clear water, unless 
very thirsty ; but this mess she will drink almost at any time and 



BUTTER AND CHEESE. 573 

ask for more. The amount of this drink is an ordinary water-pail 
at each time — morning, noon and night. Your animal will then do 
her best at dispensing the lacteal fluid. 

MAKING FINE BUTTER. 

To make fine butter you must have fine milk ; the making of 
fine butter must begin with the cows. They will give just as they 
receive. Good food and good care will give good milk, poor food 
and careless keeping will give poor milk, and the result will be poor 
butter; but it often happens poor butter is made of good milk, and 
to avoid this observe the following simple rules : 

1st. Set the milk in the pans as near its natural heat as possible, 
98 "^ , if the room is very cold ; if not very cold, set the milk 
85 o to 90 o . 

2d. Don't let it stand too long before the cream is taken off — 
24 hours in a cool place. 

3d. Don't gather cream too long before it is churned ; 3 days is 
long enough. 

4th. Heat the cream and keep it in a warm place for 24 hours 
to ripen before being churned. 

5th. Heat the churn with warm water before putting the cream 
in it, and see that the cream is at its proper heat. What is a proper 
heat to churn at? Every one must find out by experiments what 
suits their own cream ; as a general rule in winter about 64 *^ . But 
see that the temperature is kept at that all the time of churning 
until the butter is coming. Then it can be cooled down gradually 
till the churning is finished. 

6th. About coloring butter : Put all the color you can in the 
milk through the cow's feed and she will color the butter better 
than you can ; but to supplement what she cannot do, use a little 
annatto diluted with water; put into the churn when you begin to 
churn ; use no more than will give the butter a bright, white, oat- 
straw color. 

7th. Give the butter no more working than to press the milk 
clean out of it ; a wash or two with brine does not hurt it when in 



574 BUTTER AND CHEESE. 

a granulated state ; when the brine runs off perfectly clear stop 
working it. 

8th. Do not spoil it with salt ; use fine dairy salt, ]/y ounce to i 
pound; weigh both butter and salt — do not guess. This quantity 
is sufficient for winter butter, which enters into immediate con- 
sumption. Use y^ to I ounce per pound in summer. 

9th. If put up in pound rolls do it neatly, smoothly and all in 
one shape, with a nice white cloth around each roll. 

loth. If put in crocks be sure to pack it down solid; dress the 
top and cover it up from the air till it is taken to the market. 

BUTTER, TO KEEP FOR WINTER USE. 

To those who have had little experience in making granular but- 
ter, I would say, get a barrel churn or box churn, for it is a diffi- 
cult matter to make perfect granules in a dash churn or a churn 
wdth paddles in it. When the butter is found to be in granules 
about the size of wheat stop churning, draw off the buttermilk* 
then cover the butter with cold water, move the churn back and 
forth a few times, draw off the water, and repeat until the water 
runs clear from the churn. It is now ready for putting into the 
brine. Make a brine by boiling that will float an egg. Skim off 
any scum that may rise. Let it stand over night to cool and settle. 
If butter is to be packed in a wooden tub or barrel, be sure to scald 
it out thoroughly to remove the wood smell. Put in a portion of 
the brine first, then fill the tub or barrel with the butter within 3 
inches from the top. Fill in the brine and cover the butter. Be 
sure the butter is covered with brine all the time ; never let the air 
get to it until wanted for use. When taken out of the tub or 
barrel the butter will require a light washing before it is worked 
into the solid mass ready for use. Butter handled in this way will 
come out of the brine just as perfect as when it went into it. But- 
ter will keep just as perfectly in rolls or prints as long as the air is 
excluded, but if packed in this manner it should be salted in the 
usual way, I ounce to the pound, before going into the brine, 
for the reason that brine will not penetrate butter when packed in 
a solid mass. 



BUTTER AND CHEESE. 575 

BUTTER, TO KEEP IN HOT WEATHER. 

Butter to be kept into hot weather ought to be packed in jars, 
pressed in firmly, and a pickle made by using 2 pounds common 
salt ; ^ ounce saltpeter ; 2 ounces lump sugar, to each quart of 
hot water needed. Pour the hot water upon the salt, etc., and stir 
until dissolved, and let stand till cold ; then pour over the butter, 
at least 2 inches in depth and it will keep nicely. New ash or oak 
firkins will do, but are not as good as stone jars. 

BUTTER, TO COLOR. 

Take a lump of annatto about the size of a hickory-nut and dis- 
solve it in a cup of water. This will do several churnings. When 
you have the cream in the churn, stir up and add i tablespoon, 
which will color 5 pounds. It is harmless and improves the 
appearance of the butter. 

BUTTER, TO COLOR, NO. 2. 

For about 3 gallons of cream take 6 or more good-sized orange 
carrots, wash and grate them on a coarse grater; when grated pour 
on boiling water, which will extract the color. Put the cream into 
the churn ; strain the carrot-juice through coarse muslin into the 
cream, and churn. Should the cream be warm enough, the carrot- 
juice must be cool before using. Aside from the coloring the car- 
rots give the butter a sweet taste, similar to grass butter. 

TO PRESERVE MILK. 

Provide bottles, which must be perfectly clean, sweet and dry. 
Draw the milk from the cow into the bottles, and, as they are filled, 
immediately cork them well up, and fasten the corks with pack 
thread or wire. Then spread a little straw on the bottom of a 
boiler, on which place the bottles with straw between them, until 
the boiler contains a sufficient quantity. Fill it up with cold water, 
heat the water, and as soon as it begins to boil draw the fire, and 
let the whole gradually cool. When quite cold take out the bot- 
tles, and pack them with straw or sawdust in hampers, and stow 



576 BUTTER AND CHEESE. 

them in the coolest part of the house. It is said that milk pre- 
served in this manner, after being i8 months in the bottles, will be 
as sweet as when first milked from the cow. 



CHEESE. 



RENNET EXTRACT. 

Work together 12 ounces clear, fresh rennet cut fine and 3 
ounces salt ; put in a cool place 5 or 6 weeks; then add 18 ounces 
water and 2 ounces rum; let it stand 24 hours and filter; 2 or 3 
teaspoons is enough for i quart milk. 

HOME-MADE CREAM CHEESE. 

As rennet is the principal agent in making cheese, that should be 
provided first. If rennet extract can be obtained, that will be the 
best, because it is always pure and sweet, and uniform in strength, 
and comes with directions for using. But if it cannot be had, 
rennet may be prepared by steeping a good clean and sweet rennet 
in a weak brine at least 2 days in advance, and giving it a half 
dozen or so good rubbings before using. No definite amount can 
be given as to how much you should use of this for any given 
quantity of milk on account of its varying strength (2 inches square 
of good rennet is sufficient to make 50 or 60 pounds cheese), but 
rennet enough should be thoroughly stirred in to make coagulation 
begin in 12 or 15 minutes. 

• The next essential is some kind of press. Any man can make 
one. A draining-box is also needed, with a slat division across it 
and open at one end, or a basket might be substituted, though it is not 
nearly so good, and a hoop in which the curd will be pressed. 
Annatto is used for coloring by those who do not think it injurious ; 
if you wish it, a piece the size of a hickory-nut dissolved in i cup 
hot water is sufficient for 6 or 8 gallons milk. 

Keep the night's milk cool and, in the morning, skim, put the 
cream in the strainer, and strain the morning's milk, which is warm, 
through it to dissolve the cream and add to the niiiht's milk. 



BUTTER AND CHEESE. 



577 



A thermometer will be wanted. Some convenience for heating 
a mess of milk so it will not get scorched must be devised. For a 
few cows this may be done on the kitchen stove or range, with a 
tin pan large enough to hold the mess to be heated set in, or over, 
a pan or kettle containing water, or, by setting a tin-pail of hot 
water in the milk; heat to 80'^ or 85 "^ , and add the rennet. It 
should coagulate in from 30 to 35 minutes; then stand 40 minutes, 
and cut the curd ; then stand about the same length of time before 
heating up the whey ; when the heat has been raising about 10 
minutes, commence working gradually, till it gets to 100'-'. Work 
it up with clean hands to keep the curd from sticking together, 
until it will cleave apart ; then let the fire go down, and let it stand 
till the whey becomes a sickish sweet, then drain off the whey. 

If the cheese is wanted for immediate use, salt at the rate of y^ 
pound to 25 pounds of curd should be evenly mingled with the curd. 
If to be kept long, ^^ pound salt to 15 or 16 of curd may be used. 

Wring out a square of strong domestic (^ yard), in whey, put 
over the hoop, and put the curd in, pressing down evenly with the 
hand. Put on the top and put to press. Begin slowly and gradu- 
ally increase the pressure. Leave in the press all night. Next 
morning turn and press again ; the next day rub with melted but- 
ter, and put in a cool, dry room to cure, turning frequently. 

NEW JERSEY CREAM CHEESE. 

First scald the quantity of milk desired ; let it cool a little, therr. 
add the rennet ; the directions for quantity are given on the pack- 
ages of " Prepared Rennet." When the curd is formed, take it out 
on a ladle without breaking it ; lay it on a thin cloth held by 2 per- 
sons ; dash a ladleful of water over each ladleful of curd, to separate 
the curd ; hang it up to drain the water off, and then put it under 
a light press for i hour ; cut the curd with a thread into small 
pieces ; lay a cloth between each 2, and press for i hour; take them 
out, rub them with fine salt, let them lie on a board for 1 hour, and 
wash them in cold water ; let them lie to drain, and in a day or two 
the skin will look dry; put some sweet grass under and over them, 
and they will soon ripen. 

37 



5/8 BUTTER AND CHEESE. 

. BUTTERMILK CHEESE, PLAIN AND SPICED, GERMAN PLAN. 

The buttermilk, after being boiled and allowed to stand until 
cool, is placed in a cheese-form (loop) or heavy linen bag until the 
whey is drained off, when it is salted, not too heavily, and spiced 
according to taste, and thoroughly mixed. About i spoon of alco- 
hol is then added for each pound, and the mass is thoroughly 
kneaded, and formed into cheeses of any desired size or form, which 
are dried in the air, and then wrapped in clean linen cloths that 
have previously been moistened with hot whey, and packed in a 
well-covered cask, and stowed in a warm place. Four days sufifice 
to render them fit for use, but they improve by age. The small 
hand-cheeses, which especially become very dry in winter, may be 
rendered palatable by simply wrapping them, when dry, in horse- 
radish leaves, and packing them closely in a cask. They will be 
found of a very agreeable flavor in from 3 to 4 weeks. 

COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Place a pan of clabbered sour milk over the fire ; scald well ; 
pour into a clean cloth ; squeeze out all the water. The clabber 
will be quite dry. Put this into a basin and work it with the hands, 
moistening with a little cream, a little butter, and plenty of salt. 
Mold into little balls. 

SCHMIERKASE. 

Take thick "loppered" milk; set it on or near the fire until it 
curds. Great care should be taken that the milk does not become 
hot, as that would harden it and render it unfit to eat — blood-heat 
is about the right temperature for the milk. When the milk has 
suf^ciently curdled to show like little islands in the whey, pour it 
into a coarse linen bag and hang up to drain. This will take some 
hours. Do not press the curd, but when the whey has been all 
drained from the curd, remove from the bag and set in the cellar 
till wanted for use. It will keep several days. Serve with sweet 
cream poured over it, and season with pepper and salt. Some like 
sugar on it. 



BUTTER AND CHEESE. 579 

SAGE CHEESE. 

The sage used is the green, growing sage, picked fresh from the 
bush. It is not common to use clear sage, if it is strong and 
vigorous growing, as it would be apt to make the flavor rather 
stronger than desired, if enough was used to color the curd to the 
desired tint ; but enough sage is used to give the desired flavor, and 
the balance of green color is given by using fresh green leaves of either 
corn or beans, or some other similar juicy, green leaf of a sort of 
neutral flavor that would not destroy the sage flavor. For the 
milk of 4 cows take i quart green leaves {}{_ sage and ^ corn or 
bean leaves) and bruise them in a mortar, then put them into a 
strainer bag and pour warm milk over them several times and 
finally squeeze to get out all the juice. This juice and milk are 
used for coloring; only }i o( the milk is colored; for instance, if 10 
gallons of milk were to be made up, set 5 gallons in one tub and 
the rest in another. Put all the color in one and then make them 
into a curd, or "set" them separately. After the curds are made 
and broken up ready for press, mix them evenly and perfectly and 
press all together. The result is that the cheese has the appear- 
ance, when cut, of a clouded marble. The green curd and the 
white curd make a very pretty contrast. Of course, if one chose 
he could color all, but the cheese would not look so nicely, and a 
solid green cheese might not sell well to a customer who had never 
seen one, but the marble cheese looks fine, and usually commands 
at least 2 cents a pound more than ordinary cheese, where they are 
known, and at quick sales. The cheese-maker can tell quite easil}'' 
whether he has enough sage by tasting of his milk after the juice 
is in. If it does not taste strong enough of sage to give it a pleas- 
ant, pronounced sage flavor add more. The milk should be rather 
pale green after it is colored ; strong enough so as to make a decided 
contrast with the white curd when passed. If green sage is not at 
hand, possibly dry sage could be used by soaking and steeping and 
then using the other green leaves to give color. 



CHAPT^KR XXVII. 

KITCHEN RECIPES. 



CARE OF SILVER. 

When putting away the silver tea or coffee pot, which is not 
used every day, lay a little stick across the top under the cover- 
this will allow fresh air to get in and will prevent mustiness. It 
will then be ready for use at any time, after having first been 
thoroughly rinsed with boiling water. 

Nothing is better to clean silver with than alcohol and ammonia. 
After rubbing with this, take a httle whiting on a soft cloth and 
polish. Even frosted silver, which is so difficult to clean, may be 
easily made clear and bright. 

TO WASH SILVERWARE. 

Put I teaspoon aqua ammonia into i pint very hot water, and 
wash quickly with a small soft brush, kept for the purpose only, 
and dry with a clean linen towl ; then rub very dry with chamois. 
Washed in this manner silverware becomes again brilliant, and 
requires no polishing with any of the powders, or whiting usually 
employed, and lasts much longer. 

AN ECONOMICAL CRUMB-CLOTH. 

A red table-cloth that is too much faded to be used on the table 
makes a good crumb-cloth. Starch it as stiff as you can easily, 
iron perfectly smooth, taking care to pull the edges straight and 
even, pin it to the carpet instead of tacking it, as then it will not 
be so much trouble to take it up, and you will wash it just as soon 
as it needs it. It will keep clean a long time, and, even if you can 
afford a handsome cloth, it is convenient to use this when the other 

is up to be "cleaned. 

5S0 



KITCHEN RECIPES. 581 



A GOOD DISH-CLOTH. 

For a dish-cloth "par excellence," make a cloth about 12 inches 
square, of 4 or 5 thicknesses, of common white mosquito netting; 
then sew across and back and forth on the machine, to hold it 
firmly together. Thus it is very soft and will hold no grease at all. 

WASHING DISHES. 

Dishes should always be rinsed in clear, hot water after having 
been washed in soap suds. Nothing is more unpleasant at the table 
than to notice a certain stickiness that the soap is likely to leave. 
It is necessary also from a sanitary point of view ; the caustic alkali 
is corrosive and unwholesome, and the grease is often impure. 

PASTE FOR CLEANING BRASS, COPPER AND TIN. 

Rotten stone powdered fine, 4 ounces, oxalic acid, i ounce, 
sweet oil, i^ ounces, spirits turpentine sufficient to make a paste. 
Or, powdered rotten stone, 4 ounces, soft soap, 2 ounces. Apply 
with a soft leather. 

COAL ASHES GOOD TO SCOUR WITH. 

The fine, soft coal ashes which are found in the pipe in the 
spring, and which sift under the pan, will clean and brighten tin- 
ware. Take a piece of old flannel, dip lightly into soft soap, and 
rub, afterward using a clean piece of flannel to polish with. 

COFFEE POTS, TEA POTS, TIN SAUCEPANS, ETC., TO CLEAN INSIDE. 

When the inside of a coffee or tea pot has become black from 
long use, fill it with soft water ; throw in a small piece of hard soap, 
and boil it from ^ to i hour; and it will be as ''bright as a new 
button," without labor or expense. When tin sauce-pans become 
grimy or dark from use, do the same with them, and you will 
be pleased with the result. Cover while boiling. Then scald out 
well and all is complete. 



582 KITCHEN RECIPES. 

NEW KETTLES. 

The best way to prepare a new iron kettle for use is to fill it 
with clean potato peelings, boil them for i hour or more, then wash 
the kettle with hot water, wipe it dry and rub it with a little lard ; 
repeat the rubbing for yi dozen times after using. In this way you 
will prevent rust, and all the annoyances liable to occur in the use 
of a new kettle. 

COPPER KETTLES, TO CLEAN. 

If you wish to clean your copper tea-kettles with very little labor 
and without soiling your hands or making them rough or sore, rub 
them while filled with hot water with very sour buttermilk. Other 
sour milk will clean them, but buttermilk is preferable. Clean them 
thus once or twice a week, and they will keep as bright as a new 
penny, and your hands will not be made as rough as a grater, as is 
the case when salt and vinegar is used. 

KNIVES, TO CLEAN. 

Scrape at one end of the knife-board a little heap of Bath brick; 
rub on a piece of red flannel some yellow soap; lay the knife flat 
on the board ; dip the soaped flannel in the brick-dust, and rub it 
on the knife. When clean, wash the knives in warm water, but be 
careful not to let it touch the handle. This method saves the 
knives as well as the labor of cleaning in the usual way. 

STEEL DINNER KNIVES, TO REMOVE RUST. 

Cover the steel with sweet oil, well rubbed in ; let them remain 
48 hours, and then using unslacked lime, finely powdered, rub the 
knife till all the rust has disappeared. 

THE CARE OF LAMPS. 

The disagreeable flickering of a student lamp is sometimes 
caused by tiny particles of the wick dropping into the inside tube 
of the cylinder surrounding the wick, thus preventing the oil flow- 
ing freely from the barrel. Before inserting a new wick remove the 



KITCHEN RECIPES. 583 

oil barrel, and empty the lamp entirely of oil, pour into the open- 
ing, down the wick cylinder and wherever fluid will touch inside, 
boiling water to which has been added a spoonful of spirits of 
ammonia. 

Burners sometimes get clogged and refuse to turn up and down. 
This may be remedied by putting them into an iron kettle contain- 
ing I quart water and i double handful wood-ashes. After boiling 
a little while take out, and with a soft rag wash and dry them per- 
fectly. Or they may be put into a bath composed of equal parts 
of milk and vinegar and boiled. Before using lamp wicks soak them 
in vinegar, and dry thoroughly to prevent their smoking. If after 
putting the wick into the bowl of the lamp, and before pouring in 
any oil, the bowl is crammed with sponge, the wick and sponge 
then saturated with the oil to the fullest capacity of the bowl, the 
lamp is converted into a safety lamp, so that there is no danger to 
life from accidental upsetting or breakage of the lamp, or fear of 
spots on table-scarf or carpet. Add more sponge as the wick burns 
away; keep the bowl full of it. The lamp will continue to burn 
until the oil in wick and sponge is exhausted. 

LIQUID STOVE POLISH. 
Mix I pound powdered stove polish, I gill turpentine, i gill 
water and I ounce sugar. Apply with a rag or sponge. 

CREAM STOVE POLISH. 
The Scientific American says the following makes an excellent 
paste : Two parts sulphate copper, i part bone black, i part black 
lead. Water sufficient to make a paste like cream. 

HOW TO POLISH A STOVE EASILY. 
If a little vinegar or some cider is mixed with stove polish it 
will not take much rubbing to make the stove bright, and the black- 
ing is not likely to fly off in fine dust. 

TO MAKE FIRE KINDLERS. 
Take l quart tar and 3 pounds resin ; melt them, bring to a 
cooling temperature, mix with as n^iuch coarse sawdust, with a little 



584 KITCHEN RECIPES. 

charcoal added, as can be worked in ; spread out while hot upon a 
board. When cold, break up into lumps of the size of a hickory- 
nut, and you have, at a small expense, kindling material enough 
for a household for a year. 

STOVE CEMENT. 
A good cement for mending a stove that has a crack in it may 
be made by mixing silicate of potash or soluble glass with wood 
ashes. This cement will not bear moisture. 

HOW TO CLEAN MICA. 

Every woman who has been obliged to spend half a day several 
times during the winter cleaning the mica in her coal stove, usually 
by taking them out and washing them in soap-suds, will rejoice to 
know there is a much easier way to clean them and that there is no 
need to take them out or let the fire burn very low in order to do it 
successfully. Take a little vinegar and water and wash the mica 
carefully with a soft cloth ; the acid removes all stains, and if a 
little pains is taken in cleaning the corners and in wiping them dry, 
the mica will look as good as new. It is a great care to see that 
stoves are kept in proper order, and not many servants can be 
trusted to do it as it should be done. The task might be made 
somewhat easier by choosing stoves which are not too highly orna- 
mented. Unless the trimmings are kept absolutely spotless and 
bright which is a very difficult thing to accomplish, they cannot 
lay the least claim to being ornamental ; indeed, a stove which, by 
reason of its excessive decoration, is rendered the most prominent 
feature of the room, demanding attention the moment one enters, is 
certainly in bad taste. A clean, well-polished stove, with graceful 
shape, which fills the end of its being by heating the house, is all 
that a stove should be. The fire may be, as it has been called, the 
soul of the room, but it ought not to ask too much attention to its 
body. 

HOW TO USE THE OIL STOVE. 

A few suggestions in regard to the use of the oil stove may be 
of value to some one who does not succeed well in using it. Com- 
plaints are frequently made that a meal cannot be put hot upon the 



KITCHEN RECIPES. 585 

table if cooked on the single oil stove. My plan is this: If I am to 
get breakfast by it, the first thing is to boil the water for coffee, 
have the coffee in the pot, with some soft paper stuffed in the nose. 
When the water boils, pour a little on the coffee, cover closely and 
set it one side. Then warm the potatoes ; when thoroughly cooked, 
cover them and set one side. If beefsteak is preferred to cold 
meat, cook that ; the stove being very hot, it will cook quickly. 
Then as you take the steak off with one hand, with the other set 
the potatoes back on the stove. While you are preparing the 
steak for the table, the potatoes will be getting hot ; while taking 
them off, set the coffee-pot back on the stove. Of course, one 
must be very quick in her movements. Dinner may in the same 
way be put smoking on the table, and the housewife, cool and 
fresh, will enjoy the meal as well as any member of the family. 
Any one who keeps plants in a room where there is no fire at night, 
or in a bay window, may prevent their freezing by lighting the oil 
stove and placing it near them. Canned fruit and vegetables ipay, 
also, in this way be kept from freezing. One who has never tried 
it will be surprised to notice how much heat is given out. 

rO KEEP A KITCHEN TABLE CLEAN. 

A cook should always keep a piece of oil-cloth ready, to put her 
sauce-pans and stew-pans on when necessary; the oil-cloth can be 
so much more easily cbaned than the table. A few common straw 
mats are also very handy in a kitchen, to save the table from being 
soiled. 

TO MAKE HARD WATER SOFT. 

Fill the wash-boiler or tank with hard water; then put ^ cup 
wood ashes into a woollen bag; cover this with cotton cloth to pre- 
vent ashes sifting out ; let this lie in the water until that is warm 
enough to use. 

TO PURIFY WATER. 

One large spoon pulverized alum sprinkled into a hogshead of 
water (the water stirred round at the time), will, after the lapse of a 
few hours, so purify it that it will be found to possess nearly the 



586 KITCHEN RECIPES. 

freshness and clearness of finest spring water. A pail containing 4 
gallons may be purified by a single spoonful ; or a mixture of i part 
chalk and 2 of alum will be still better. 



HOME-MADE FILTER. 

Take a large flower-pot, put a piece of sponge over the hole in 
the bottom, fill ^ full equal parts clean sand and charcoal the size 
of a pea; over this lay a woolen cloth large enough to hang over 
the sides of the pot. Pour water into the cloth and it will come 
out pure after the dust from the coal has been run off by a few 
fillings. When it works too slow take off the woolen cloth and 
wash it thoroughly and replace it again is all that will be required 
for a long time. 



CHARTKR XXVIII. 



LAUNDRY RECIPES. 



TO CLEAN BLACK SILKS. 

One of the things " not generally known," at least in this country, 
is the Parisian method of cleaning black silk ; the modus operandi is 
very simple, and the result infinitely superior to that achieved in 
any other manner. The silk must be thoroughly brushed and 
wiped with a cloth, then laid flat on a board or table, and well- 
sponged with hot coffee, thoroughly freed from sediment by being 
strained through muslin. The silk is sponged on the side intended 
to show ; it is allowed to become partially dry, and then ironed on 
the wrong side. The coffee removes every particle of grease, and 
restores the brilliancy of silk, without imparting to it either the 
shiny appearance or crackly and papery stiffness obtained by beer, 
or, indeed, any other liquid. The silk really appears thickened by 
the process, and this good effect is permanent. Our readers who 
will experimentalize on an apron or cravat, will never again try any 
other method. 

TO CLEAN COLORED FABRICS. 

Nearly all colored fabrics stain the suds used to clean them, and 
that without losing their own brightness in any way. No article of 
a different color must be plunged into a rinse or wash so stained, 
but must have fresh ones ; and no colored article must be rinsed in 
blued suds. Scarlet is particularly prone to color a wash. 

Different colors are improved by different substances being used 
in the wash or rinse ; sugar of lead has the credit of fixing all colors 
when first cleaned, and may be used to those likely to run. To 
brighten colors, mix some ox-gall; but, of course, the quantity must 
be regulated by the quantity of suds in the wash and rinse. For 
buff and cream-colored alpaca or cashmere, mix in the wash and 

587 



588 LAUNDRY RECIPES. 

rinse some friar's balsam. For black materials, some ammonia. 
For violet, ammonia or a small quantity of soda in the rinsing 
water. There are some violets and mauves that fade in soda. For 
green, vinegar in the rinse, in the proportion to 2 tablespoons to i 
quart of rinse. For blue, to i dress, i good handful common salt 
in the rinse. For brown and grey, ox-gall. For white, blue the 
wash with laundry blue. 

Dresses, mantles, shawls, opera cloaks, underskirts, articles 
embroidered with silk, self-colored or chintz-colored damask cur- 
tains, moreen and other woolen curtaining, may all be cleaned as 
specified. 

TO CLEAN BLACK MERINO OR ANY WOOLEN STUFF. 

Purchase at a drug store 2 cents worth carbonate of ammonia ; 
place it in a clean quart basin, and pour upon it i pint boiling 
water; cover it over with a clean plate, and let it stand till cold; 
then proceed the same as directed for cleaning black silks; gentle- 
men's clothes can thus be cleaned without taking to pieces, or iron- 
ing, unless quite convenient ; vests and coat collars are thus easily 
renovated, the color is revived, grease spots and white seams removed. 

TO CLEAN LAWN AND MUSLIN DRESSES. 

Lawn and muslin dresses that have faded may be whitened in 
the boiling suds, and bleached on the grass, and when done up are 
quite as pretty as dresses made of new white material ; delicate 
hued muslin and cambric dresses may be washed nicely by the fol- 
lowing process: Shave ^ pound of common hard soap into i gal- 
lon of boiling water ; let it melt, turn it into a tub of lukewarm 
water; stir T quart wheat bran into a second tub of lukewarm 
water, and have ready a third tub with clear water; put the dress 
into the first tub of suds, rub gently or rather "souse" it up and 
down, and squeeze it out ; treat it the same in the tub of bran 
water; rinse, dry and dip in starch made the same as for shirts; 
dry again, and then rinse thoroughly in clear water; dry again, and 
sprinkle with a whisk-broom or sprinkler ; roll up in a thick cloth 



LAUNDRY RECIPES. 589 

while the iron gets hot, and iron with them as hot as they can be 
used without scorching the dress. By taking a clear day, it is little 
trouble to do several dresses in a few hours. 

TO CLEAN WHITE SILK LACE. 

The lace is stretched over small clean slips of wood to keep it 
evenly spread out, laid over night in warm milk, to which a little 
soap has been added, rinsed in fresh water, laid for the same length 
of time in warm soap-lye, and finally rinsed without any friction. 
Linen lace is best cleaned by covering the outside of a large glass 
bottle smoothly with stout linen or white flannel, upon which the 
lace is sewed in a number of coils, and over the whole some coarse 
open tissue is secured. The bottle thus dressed is allowed to soak 
for a time in lukewarm soft water, and the outside wrapping is then 
rubbed with soap and a piece of flannel. After this the bottle is 
laid to steep for some hours in clean soft water. It is then rolled 
between dry towels, dipped in rice water, and rolled again. Finally 
the damp lace is unfastened from the bottle and ironed between 
linen cloths. 

TO RAISE THE PILE ON VELVET. 

To raise the pile on velvet, put on a table 2 pieces of wood ; 
place between them, Taottom side up, 3 very hot flat-irons, and over 
them lay a wet cloth ; hold the velvet over the cloth, with the 
wrong side down ; when thoroughly steamed, brush the pile with a 
light wisp, and the velvet will look as good as new. 

LACES — WASHING LACE. 

To make the starch properly, mix the dry particles with enough 
cold water to make a smooth paste, add cold water until it 
looks like milk and water, and boil it in a smoothly glazed earthen 
vessel until it is perfectly transparent. While it is cooling squeeze 
the laces through soap-suds and rinse them in clear water. If you 
wish them clear white, add a little bluing ; if ivory white omit the 
bluing, and if yellow-tinged add a few teaspoons clear coffee to the 
starch. Run through the starch, squeeze, roll up in towels, and 



590 LAUNDRY RECIPES. 

clap each piece separately until dry ; pull gently into shape, from 
time to time, with the fingers and pin on the ironing table or 
bosom-board or upon the pillows in the " spare " bedroom. When 
dry, press between tissue paper with a hot iron, punch the openings 
with an ivory stiletto, and pick each pearl or loop on the edge with 
a coarse pin until it looks like new lace. 

TO RENOVATE CRAPE. 

Brush the crape well with a soft brush, and hold tightly over a 
wide-mouthed jug of boiling water, gradually stretching it over the 
jug. If a strip of crape it is very easily held tightly over the 
water, letting the portion done fall over the jug until all is com- 
pleted. The crape will become firm and fit for use, every mark 
and fold being removed. White or colored crape may be washed 
and pinned over a newspaper, or towel, on the outside of a bed, 
until dry. Crape that has been exposed to rain or damp — veils 
especially — may be saved from spoiling by being stretched tightly 
on the outside of the bed with pins, until dry ; and no crape should 
be left to dry without having been pulled into proper shape. If 
black crape, lace, or net is faded or turned brown, it may be dipped 
into water, colored with the blue-bag, adding a lump of loaf sugar 
to stiffen, and pinned to a newspaper on a bed. 

WASHING CHINTZES. 

These should always be washed in dry weather, but if it is very 
cold, it is better to dry them by the fire than risk spoiling the 
colors from freezing in the open air. It is better, if possible, to 
defer their washing till the weather is suitable. 

HOW TO WASH FLANNELS. 

The best way to wash all-wool fabrics, or those that have a fair 
mixture of wool in them, is to make a hot suds of good soap, in 
which put I or 2 tablespoons ammonia. If possible to make clean 
without, do not rub soap on the fabrics as it fulls them up badly. 
Rub the clothes in this and rinse in clear, hot water. Hang them 
up to dry out of doors when the weather is suitable, but never in 



LAUNDRY RECIPES. 59I 

stormy or freezing weather. Stretch them to shape when hung up, 
and if possible iron them while they are yet damp. Never use soap 
in the rinsing water, but see to it that the soap used in rubbing 
them is well rinsed out. Flannels washed in this manner will be 
soft and pliable, even unto old age, but they should never be trusted 
to the care of servants entirely. 

WASHING TOWELS. 

Towels with handsome, bright borders should never be boiled, 
or allowed to lie in very hot water ; they should not be used till 
they are so much soiled that they need vigorous rubbing to make 
them clean. It is better economy to use more towels. 

TO WASH A LINEN DUSTER. 

Some one may wish to know how to wash a linen duster in such a 
way that it will not look faded. All old colored linen should be 
washed in lukewarm water. If there are any grease spots use a 
little hard soap, or, better still, remove them with benzine. Rinse 
thoroughly in warm water in which ^ cup salt has been dissolved ; 
the last water must be very blue, and i small handful starch put in. 
Hang in a shady place, and, as soon as the duster is dry, take it 
down, so that the wind will not blow the starch out. If dampened 
with warm water, it will soon be ready to iron. 

TO BLEACH COTTON CLOTH. 

One pound chloride of lime, dissolved and strained ; put in 2 or 
3 pails water ; thoroughly wet the cloth and leave it over night ; 
ihen rinse well in 2 waters. This will also take out mildew, and is 
equally good for brown cotton or white that has become yellow 
from any cause, and will not injure the fabric. 

TO BLEACH LACE, ETC. 

After washing and boiling let it lie all day in excessively strong 
blue-water; lay it out all night on the grass to diy. Boil again 
with soap, without soda or blueing; rinse well. It must not, how- 
ever, be forgetten that too much soda turns linen, etc., yellow. 



592 LAUNDRY RECIPES. 



TO REMOVE SCORCHES. 

Spread over the cloth a paste made of the juice pressed from 2 
onions, 3^ ounce white soap, 2 ounces fuller's earth, and ^ pint 
vinegar. Mix and boil well before using. 

TO STIFFEN LINEN, 

Such as cuffs that require to be very firm, boil the starch after 
mixing it cold. Into i pint starch drop a bit of white wax 3^ the 
size of a small hazle-nut and i teaspoon brandy. The spirit is to 
retain the stiffness and increase it, the wax to save the starch from 
sticking to the iron. When an iron sticks to starch, soap the bot- 
tom of the iron. 

STARCH POLISH. 

One ounce white wax, 2 ounces spermaceti; melt them together 
with a gentle heat. When you have prepared a sufficient amount 
of starch, in the usual way, for I dozen pieces, put into it i piece 
of the polish the size of a large pea, more or less, according to 
large or small washings. Or, thick gum solution made by pouring 
I pint boiling water, upon 2 ounces white gum arabic ; i tablespoon 
to I pint starch, gives clothes a beautiful gloss. 

HOW TO EXTRACT INK STAINS FROM CLOTPI, ETC. 
Many of the preparations of this sort not only remove the stain, 
but the color as well. The following will be found perfectly harm- 
less: To y^ ounce oxalic acid put i fluid ounce distilled water; 
when nearly dissolved add ^ ounce citric acid ; saturate the stain 
and lay in the sun ; if not all removed, repeat. You can add more 
water, but it must be soft. It will remove old ink stains effectually. 

ANOTHER METHOD. 

Pour milk upon the ink directly and rub it with a damp flannel; 
repeat until the ink disappears. Then wash with flannel and water, 
and rub dry. When milk is at hand, place a plate under the ink 
spot and pour milk on the ink. Allow it to lie in the milk, and 
when removed from the table, if not free from ink, dip it in a cup 
or basin of milk and rinse in cold water. 



LAUNDRY RECIPES. 593 

FRUIT STAINS, RECENT, OR OLD, TO REMOVE. 

Hold the linen tightly across the tub and pour hot water 
through them, before any soap is put on ; if old, tie up a little cream 
of tartar in the places, put into cold water and bring to a boil. If 
upon table linen, rub on some salt, at once, then pour on the hot 
water. 

PAINT, PITCH, OIL, AND GREASE, TO REMOVE FROM SILK, 

LINEN, ETC. 

Two ounces benzine (purified), also called benzole, ^ ounce oil 
lemon ; mix and keep corked. Apply with a cloth or sponge to 
any spots upon any of the above named kind of goods, rubbing 
with the fingers until removed. The colors will not be injured. 

ACID, TEA, WINE, AND OTHER STAINS. 

Stains caused by acids, tea, or fruits, can often be removed by 
spirits of hartshorn, diluted with an equal quantity of water. To 
remove tar, pitch, or turpentine, the spot may be saturated with 
sweet oil, or a little tallow may be spread upon it, after which it 
must remain for 24 hours. If the article is of linen or cotton, it 
must be washed in the usual way ; but if silk or worsted, it is to be, 
rubbed with ether or spirits of wine. Pure spirits of turpentine^ 
will remove recent spots of oil-paint by rubbing. Wax and sper- 
maceti should be scraped off and the places where they have been 
should be rubbed with spirits of wine, spirits of turpentine, or- 
mephuric ether. Grease spots can commonly be taken out of silk; 
by means of French chalk as follows : Scrape a little chalk upon; 
the spot and place underneath a warm iron or water plate filledl 
with boiling water. The heat melts the grease, which is absorbed 
by the chalk and it can be removed by rubbing or brushing. It 
may be needful to repeat the process. 

MILDEW, TO REMOVE FROM CLOTHING. 

Take common soft soap and stir in quite a bit of salt, so the 
soap crumbles or grains, as it were, and rub on the spot and lay out 

38 



594 ' LAUNDRY RECIPES. 

over night, and if not effaced by morning wet it occasionally during 
the day. The following chloride solution is also good to remove 
mildew: Put about ^ cup chloride of lime into 2 qts. hot 
water, wetting the mildewed articles first in cold water, then put 
into the lime water until the mildew is bleached out, then rinse 
well in plenty of water to remove the lime. 

MILDEW ON SILK. 

The best plan of removing the mildew from colored silk is to 
moisten a piece of white blotting-paper with rectified spirits of 
wine and sal ammoniac, with 5^ water ; put this 3-fold on the spot, 
and another piece of blotting-paper 3-fold on the other side of the 
material, and press it hard. Repeat till it disappears. 

WASHING FLUID. 

Dissolve in i gallon hot water i pound concentrated lye, ^ 
ounce salts of tartar, ^ ounce liquid ammonia ; when cool, bottle 
for use. Soak the clothes over night* wring out and add i cup of 
the fluid to a boiler of water; put in the clothes and boil i hour ; 
rub them as much as is necessary, and rinse well in 2 waters, with 
a little bluing in the last. But little rubbing is necessary, and this 
method will certainly save clothes, time and labor. Lace curtains 
may be washed in the same way. Starch them and press out all 
that is possible in a towel ; pin sheets on the carpet ; spread out 
the curtains carefully, shaping every scallop on the sheets; pin them 
in place and leave them until dry. 

BORAX WASHING FLUID. 

The excellent washerwomen of Holland and Belgium, who get 
their linen so beautifully white, use refined borax as a washing 
powder, instead of soda, in the proportion of i large handful of 
powder to about 10 gallons boiling water. Borax being a neutral 
salt docs not in the slightest degree injure the texture of the linen. 
Those that try this will be pleased with the result. It is also nice 
to wash blankets or woolen goods. 



LAUNDRY RECIPES. 595 

GEM WASHING FLUID. 

One pound sal soda, i ounce borax, i ounce salts of tartar, i 
ounce ammonia, 3 quarts rain water. Put the rain water over the 
fire, then pui in the sal soda, borax, and salts of tartar. Do not put 
in the ammonia until it gets cold.- Put i cup into the boiler when 
you boil your clothes. 

KEROSENE OIL IN WASHING. 

Cut up a bar of soap (if you have an ordinary sized washing) in 
a dish and set on the stove ; when melted put in 4 teaspoons kero- 
sene oil, let this get good and hot and pour it into y^ a tub of 
water ; put your clothes in this and let them soak over night. In 
the morning you will find that the clothes, with very few excep- 
tions, will not need any rubbing at all ; simply boil, rinse and hang 
out. There your washing is done, your back is not broken, your 
knuckles not raw and your clothes look just as well as though you 
had rubbed on them all day. Just try this once and you will rise 
up and bless us. 

OX-GALL SOAP. 

For washing woolens, silks, or fine prints liable to fade : One 
pint beef's gall, 2 pounds common bar soap cut fine, i quart boiling 
soft water ; boil slowly, stirring occasionally until well mixed ; pour 
into a flat vessel, and when cold cut into pieces to dry; or, a more 
simple way of using gall, is to get a pint bottle filled with fresh 
beef's gall at the butcher's, cork tightly, add to the water when 
washing any material that is liable to fade ; using more if articles 
are very liable to fade, and less if the liability is not great. When 
the bottle is empty or grows stale, get fresh. 

HARD SOAP. 

It is a simple matter to make hard soap, which is not only agree- 
able to use, but which has the great merit of cleanliness. To 7 
pounds tallow use 3 pounds rosin, 2 pounds potash, and 6 gallons 
water ; boil for 3 hours, or, better still, for 5 ; turn from a kettle into 
a wash-tub; let it stand all night. In the morning cut into bars, 



596 LAUNDRY RECIPES. 

and lay them on a table or board in the sun to harden for 2 or 3 
days. This quantity will last a family of 4 persons a year, if used 
for ordinary household purposes. 

SOFT SOAP FROM CONCENTRATED LYE. 

To make soft soap with concentrated lye, take i pound of it 
and dissolve it in 2 gallons soft water, and when it boils add 4 
pounds tallow or clear grease ; let it boil till it becomes clear, 
then add 2 gallons more of rain water ; mix well and set it by to 
cool, then take a cup of it, and add as much cold water as it will 
take, and still be as thick and ropy as you wish it, then add water 
in the same proportions to the whole. 

SOFT SOAP. 

Take 6 gallons soft or rain water, add 3 pounds best hard soap 
(cut fine), I pound sal soda, 4 tablespoons hartshorn; boil the whole 
till perfectly dissolved ; pour into vessels, and when cold it is fit for 
use. This makes 50 pounds fine jelly soap. 

SCRAPS OF SOAP. 

Gather together all the pieces of white soap that you may have, 
castile, ivory, and any others that are known to be good. Cut 
them into small pieces and dissolve in boiling water in the propor- 
tion of I cup water to ^ cup scraps. As soon as the scraps have 
melted and while the water is still hot, stir in ground oat-meal to 
make a stiff batter. Grease some old cups and pour enough of this 
mixture in each for a small cake and set it aside to harden and dry. 
You have now a very nice soap that is excellent for daily use in the 
nursery ; or the mixture may be made just a little thinner and kept 
in a tin cup to be brought out as soft white soap at the children's 
baths. For the boys' and girls' tri-daily hand scrubbing, stir the 
batter very stiff with oat-meal bran or wheat middlings, and mold 
into flat cakes. These have a roughness that is necessary to 
remove ink stains, pitch, and the many defiling substances with 
which every healthy boy and girl seems to come in contact. 



LAUNDRY RECIPES. 597 

For fancy hand soap melt together the pieces of any colored 
toilet soaps, provided, of course, that they are good and do not 
contain injurious materials, stir in a few drops of perfumery and a 
very little Indian meal. Pour this into shallow dishes, fancy-shaped 
if you wish, and when partly cold, stamp on a pattern and mold 
the corners of the cakes round, or cut into shapes with a cake 
cutter. 

The scraps of yellow soap may be put into the soap-shaker, a 
wire receptacle for holding soap that is to be shaken in the dish- 
water; but for those who have no such implement, this is a way of 
disposing of them : Dissolve the pieces as before, using less hot 
water, and, when the mixture has partly cooled, stir in a quantity 
— as much as it will take nicely — of scouring sand, or bath brick 
scraped fine. Pour into a wooden box and stir often until cold. 
This is excellent for scouring tins and cleaning unpainted shelves 
and floors, but will, of course, remove the paint from wood-work. 
Yellow soap may, like the white, be simply dissolved and left to 
stiffen a little to be used as soft soap. 

GOOD BLUING 

Seems to be an almost indispensable commodity in the laundry. 
You will find that ultramarine blue (the best quality) tied up in a 
piece of Canton flannel, and used the same as you would indigo, 
will clear your linens better than any other bluing you ever used. 
It will give them a pearly white cast, and no matter how blue you 
may get your linens, if too blue it will all rinse out very readily 
without boiling. 

LIQUID BLUE. 

One ounce soft Prussian blue, ^ ounce oxalic acid, and i gallon 
soft water. One teaspoon is enough for a large wash. 

JAVELLE WATER. 

Four pounds sal soda, i pound chloride of lime, i gallon boiling 
water. Put the sal soda in the water and let boil lo or 15 minutes, 
and add the chloride of lime; when cool put into jugs and keep 
corked tightly. Nothing like it for soiled linen. 



CHAPTKR XXIX. 



FURNITURE AND WOOD-WORK. 



TO CLEAN CARPETS. 

When the carpet is well beaten and free from dust, lay it tightly 
down, and scrub it with soap, dissolved in soft water mixed with 
bullock's gall — about 4 gallons water to i pint gall. This will 
restore the colors of the carpet to their original brightness, and 
make it look almost like new. The brush employed should be of 
soft character, with long bristles. 

LINING STAIR CARPETS. 

It is a common practice to use bits of old carpet as a lining for 
stair carpets, but a much better way is to take strips of an old bed- 
quilt, have them not quite the width of the staircase, wash and dry 
first, then put smoothly over the stairs, tacking in a few places. It 
is softer than old carpet, and will not wear the outer one nearly so 
much. Of course this is a help for those who cannot afford the 
nice linings that are made on purpose. 

TO CLEAN PAINT. « 

Provide a plate with some of the best whiting to be had, and 
have ready some clean warm water and a piece of flannel, which 
dip into the water and squeeze nearly dry ; then take as much 
whiting as will adhere to it, apply it to the painted surface, when a 
little rubbing will instantly remove any dirt or grease. After 
which, wash the part well with clean water, rubbing it dry with a 
soft chamois. Paint thus cleaned looks as well as when first laid 
on, without injury to the most delicate colors. It is far better than 
using soap, and does not require more than half the time and labor. 
If the paint has been varnished, boil i pound bran in i gallon 
water, and wash with that, rinsing off with clear water and drying 
with soft cloth. 

598 



FURNITURE AND WOOD-WORK. 599 

DIRTY OR STAINED FURNITURE. 

If the kirniture is in a bad state, but not stained, it will be suffi- 
cient to clean it by washing it well with spirits of turpentine, and 
afterwards polishing with linseed oil colored with alkanet root. 
When, however, the furniture is stained or inky, it should be washed 
with sour beer or vinegar, warm ; afterwards rubbing the stains 
with spirits of salts, rubbed on with a piece of rag, which will 
remove all the stains. The wood may then be polished, either with 
linseed oil colored with alkanet root, or with bees'-wax dissolved in 
turpentine, with a little cold varnish or resin added. 

A GOOD CLEANSING FLUID. 

For removing spots from furniture, carpets and woolen goods 
generally, prepare a cleansing fluid as follows : Cut fine 2 ounces of 
white castile soap and dissolve it in i pint hot water over the fire, 
then add 2 quarts more of water, and, when nearly cold, 2 ounces 
ammonia and i ounce each of alcohol and glycerine ; put all in a 
gallon jug, shake well and it is ready for use ; keep it closely corked 
when not in use. To wash woolen or cashmere dress goods, place 
I teacup in i pail warm water, rub the material quickly with the 
hands, rinse when clean, and iron while it is damp, on the wrong 
side. For cleaning carpets, wet a cloth in the fluid with a little 
water and rub the spots until they disappear. 

To remove ink from carpets : Take up as much as possible with 
a spoon, pour cold sweet milk upon the spot, and take up with a 
spoon until the milk is only faintly tinged with ink, then wash with 
cold water and wipe dry. Any stain upon carpets can in most cases 
be removed with ox-gall, after the carpets have been taken up and 
well beaten. The ox-gall, which you can get from your butcher, 
should be applied to the stain, especially if it be a grease stain, with 
an old tooth brush, and allowed to remain on a few hours. Then 
rub well with flannel and warm water. 

OIL STAINS ON FLOORS OR TABLES. 

If the oil stain on the boards is quite fresh, it can be removed 
with brown paper, or with blotting-paper. Take a large clean 



60O FURNITURE AND WOOD-WORK. 

sheet, put it on the stain, and iron heavily with a hot iion. The 
oil will be absorbed by the paper. Shift the latter so as to cover 
the stain with a clean part, and repeat the process until the board 
is free from grease. If this is not sufficient for removing long- 
standing spots, mix some pipe clay or some fuller's earth with a 
little turpentine, rub the mixture well into the stains over night, 
and remove it the next day with a piece of glass. Scrub the 
boards afterwards with hot water. 

Stains upon marble may be removed by using this composition: 
Two parts common soda, i part pumice stone, and i part finely- 
powdered chalk ; sift through a fine sieve and mix with water; rub 
it well over the marble and wash off with soap and water. Polish 
the marble with a piece of flannel or old felt. 

Whenever ink is spilled, take salt at once and pile it on the 
place. When saturated remove it, and use fresh. It will take out 
every trace of ink, even from the purest marble. 

PASTE FOR PAPERING HARD-FINISHED WALLS. 

Take a handful of white glue, and put in a tin can, putting in 
enough water to nearly cover it ; set the can in a kettle of water 
and let boil until it thoroughly dissolves the glue ; then proceed to 
make a paste with water and flour after the same manner you 
would make ordinary boiled starch, only have it somewhat thicker ; 
after it has boiled sufficiently, take off the fire and stir in the dis- 
solved glue and you will not complain of paper coming loose from 
walls again. It will stay on as long as the wall stands. 

TO POLISH WAXED OR HARDWOOD FLOORS. 

Take i pound yellow bees'-wax and ^ pound potash; boil I 
hour until well mixed ; strain through a cloth ; put on with a wide, flat 
brush, hot ; brush as soon as dry ; have a brush made for the pur- 
pose — stiff and very heavy, with long handle put on the side; use 
no oil. Keep the preparation on hand in case of any liquid touch- 
ing and removing the wax. Wipe daily with dry flannel. 



FURNITURE AND WOOD-WORK. 6oi 

TO REVIVE GILT FRAMES. 

Take 2 ounces white of eggs, i ounce chloride of Hme or 
soda, mix well ; blow the dust from the frame, and apply with a 
soft brush. 

CHERRY STAIN. 

Four ounces anatto, 3 quarts rain water. Boil in a copper ket- 
tle till anatto is dissolved ; put in a piece of caustic potash size of 
a walnut, and boil gently ^ hour longer. 

EBONY STAIN. 

Take a solution of sulphate of iron, and wash the wood over 
with it 2 or 3 times; let it dry and apply 2 or 3 coats of a strong 
decoction of logwood. Wipe the wood, when dry, with a sponge 
and water and polish with oil. 

FLOOR STAIN. 

One gallon boiled linseed oil, 5 cents' worth or 2 heaping table- 
spoons burnt umber; heat the oil hot in an iron kettle — soap will 
clean it easily — then stir in the finely-powdered umber, and with 
an old paint brush apply it as hot as you can ; then, says a lady in 
the Blade, farewell scrubbing. A mop, wrung out of warm water, 
will clean it nicely. 

WALNUT STAIN. 

Dissolve I part potassium permanganate in 30 parts water, and 
apply twice in succession ; in 5 minutes wash with clear water. 

HOME-MADE CHAIR-BOTTOMS. 

An experienced housewife tells how to replace the worn out 
bottoms of chairs with a substitute which she says is nice and dur- 
able. Take strong, heavy wrapping paper, cut out just the form 
you desire, and with a firm paste stick 6 thicknesses of the paper 
together, making a thick pasteboard. Trim the edges smooth like 
the pattern you cut, and with round headed tacks nail it to the 
frame! After it is well dried, varnish it, and you have a neat, 
strong seat to the chair with little or no expense. 



6o2 FURNITURE AND WOOD-WORK. 

FAMILY GLUE. 

Crack the glue and put it in a bottle; add common whiskey; 
shake up, cork tight, and in 3 or 4 days it can be used. It requires 
no heating, will keep for almost any length of time, and is at all 
times ready to use except in the coldest of weather, when it will 
require warming. It must be kept tight so that the whiskey will 
not evaporate. The usual corks or stoppers should not be used. 
It will become clogged ; a tin stopper covering the bottle, but 
fitting as closely as possible, must be used. 

LIQUID GLUE. 

Fill a jar with broken pieces of glue, pour in enough acetic acid 
to cover, set the jar in a dish of hot water for several hours, till it 
melts, and you will have a glue that is good and always ready. 

FURNITURE POLISH. 

The subjoined simple preparation will be found desirable for 
cleaning and polishing old furniture : Over a moderate fire put a 
perfectly clean vessel ; into this drop 2 ounces of white or yellow 
wax; when melted add 4 ounces pure turpentine; then stir until 
cool, when it is ready for use. The mixture brings out the original 
color of the wood, adding a luster equal to that of varnish. By 
rubbing with a piece of fine cork, it may, when it fades, be renewed. 

HOME FURNITURE POLISH. 

To clean oil-finished paint or hard wood use weak tea, almost cold, 
and remove the dust and discoloration, and then rub it over with a 
flannel cloth dipped in furniture polish, made of y^ linseed oil, y^ 
turpentine and ^ vinegar ; shake it well together in a bottle, and 
pour it into a saucer and rub hard. It is a very satisfactory polish. 

FINE POLISH FOR FURNITURE. 

Mix well I pound olive oil, i pound refined oil amber, and I 
ounce tincture of henna. Keep in a well-stoppered bottle ; apply 
with a tuft of cotton and rub dry with a soft cotton cloth. 



CHAPTKR XXX. 



TOILET RECIPES. 



THE HANDS. 

A delicate, weH-kept hand is one of the chief points of beauty; 
therefore every woman who would add to her attractions should 
bestow careful attention to those details which affect not only her 
personal appearance, but reveal a refined and cultured mind. Wash 
the hands always in warm water, and do not be sparing with the 
brush or the soap. If, in cold weather, your hands are liable to 
chap, keep a small pot of honey, and, just before you dry your 
hands dip in a finger and well rub the hands round and round, give 
a slight rinse and dry carefully, dust a little oat-meal on them and 
rub off with a dry towel. 

To whiten and soften the hands the following are excellent : 

ALMOND PASTE. 

To make good almond paste, obtain of sweet and bitter almonds 
each 2 ounces; pound to a paste, and work up with J^ ounce Wind- 
sor soap cut in fine shreds ; to this add 2 drachms spermaceti, yi 
ounce oil of almonds, and 12 drops oil of bergamont. Subject to 
gentle heat, ^tir well, and cool in <Oiina pots. 

(VASri fOR HANDS. 

A mixture of honey, lemon-juice and eau de cologne is exceed- 
ingly useful to whiten the hands when discolored by sun, wind or 
work, and may be kept mixed for the purpose in a small toilet jar. 
Take i wine-glass of each ingredient and mix well ; then pour into 
the jar and keep closely corked. This may be applied night or day, 
and the inside of the fingers rubbed with pumice-stone. 

COLD CREAMS. 
1st. Heat gently together 4 parts olive oil, and I part white wax 
until a uniform liquid mass is obtained, when a little color and any 

603 



6o4 TOILET RECIPES. 

desired perfume may be added. The mixture may now be allowed 
to cool, but must be stirred while cooling to prevent the separation 
of the wax. This preparation softens the skin and is nice for 
wounds and chapped hands. 

2d. The following makes a very good cold cream : Melt together 

1 drachm white wax, i of spermaceti and 2 ounces olive oil ; add 

2 ounces rose water and ^ ounce orange flower water; rub 
together till they are thoroughly incorporated, and the mixture is 
of the consistency of cream. 

CARE OF THE TEETH. 

The teeth require to be kept particularly clean, rather than the 
application of mouth washes and elaborate dentifrices. The more 
simple the ingredients used, the better. Unless recommended by a 
good dentist, all tooth powders reputed to have beautifying effects 
should be used with caution. Washing the teeth night and morn- 
ing is the best preservative of their beauty and soundness. If 
encrusted with tartar or other discoloring matter, have it removed 
by a dentist. 

SOZODONT. 

The following is said to be the composition of this much adver- 
tised tooth-wash : One-half ounce potassium carbonate, 4 ounces 
honey, 2 ounces alcohol, 10 ounces water, oils of wintergreen and 
rose sufficient to flavor. 

THE GUMS. 

For diseased and inflamed gums, 2 parts golden seal, i part 
powdered burnt alum, and 2 parts glycerine, made into a paste and 
rubbed on the gums and around the teeth at night, strengthens 
and restores the gums to health, provided no tartar is present to 
cause the disease, which must be removed first before applying. 

LIP SALVE. 

Dissolve I small lump white sugar in i tablespoon rose-water 
(common water will do, but is not so good) ; mix it with 2 large 



TOILET RECIPES. 605 

spoons sweet oil, i piece spermaceti, the size of 3^ a butternut ; 
simmer the whole well together 8 or 10 minutes, then turn it into a 
small box. 

TOOTH POWDERS. 

These formulas are of many years' standing : 

1st. One-fourth pound precipitated chalk, ^ pound orris root, 
1-8 drachm carmine, i ounce powdered sugar, }^ drachm each of 
attar of roses and neroH. 

2nd. One-fourth pound each of honey, prepared chalk and orris 
root, I drachm each of tincture opium and myrrh, and }^ drachm 
each of essence cloves, nutmeg, and rose. 

3rd. Mix 2 ounces cuttle-fish, i ounce cream of tartar, ]^ ounce 
orris root. 

4th. For a good tooth powder mix together i ounce powdered 
orris root, i drachm gum camphor, 2 drachms powdered myrrh, ^ 
ounce prepared chalk. 



FACE. 



CURE FOR SUNBURN AND FRECKLES. 

For sunburn or light freckles on face or hands, take i drachm 
hydrochinon, by weight ; ^ drachm glacial phosphoric acid, 2 
drachms glycerine, and 6 ounces distilled water. This lotion may 
be prepared by any apothecary at a small cost, and is reliable. It 
is to be applied morning and night, after thoroughly cleansing the 
skin. 

FACE WASH. 

Mix together 10 cents' worth each of bismuth, bay-rum and rose- 
water, and Yz teaspoon glycerine. 

OATMEAL WASH. 

To prepare oatmeal for the complexion, put i pound fine meal 
in 3 pints cold water; let it stand 12 hours, then put it in thin bag 



6o6 TOILET RECIPES. 

to drip. To the distilled liquid add i ounce glycerine and i gill 
alcohol. This is a delightful wash for the face and hands making 
the skin soft as velvet. 

BALM OF BEAUTY 

Equal parts of cocoa-nut oil, white wax and glycerine with i 
drop or 2 of attar of roses makes a most delightful " balm of 
beauty," and is the most refreshing unguent for chapped hands and 
face. It will also smooth out the wrinkles if applied nightly during 
the winter weather. 

TO REMOVE WRINKLES. 

1st. A secret to take away wrinkles is to heat an iron shovel red 
hot, throw on it i spoon of myrrh in powder and smoke the face over 
it, covering person and shovel with a sheet to keep in the fumes. 
Repeat this 3 times, heat the shovel again, and pour on it 2 tea- 
spoons of white wine, steaming the face with it 3 times. 

2nd. Take equal parts glycerine and rose-water and a few drops 
carbolic acid, and rub the face every night. 

TOILET BAGS. 

Delightful little toilet bags are just now making their appear- 
ance, filled with bran, grated olive soap and almonds, which pressed 
in water a few seconds give a creamy lather to be rubbed on the 
face, neck and body, and wiped off with a soft towel, without 
rinsing. Those who like can make their own almond meal as fol- 
lows: One pound grated almonds, flour the same, }( pound pow- 
dered orris, }4 ounce lemon-oil, }{ ounce oil of bitter almonds. 

The almond powder for the hands is }4 pound blanched and 
powdered almonds, 4 ounces grated castile soap, i ounce orris 
powder, 3 ounces finely powdered pumice-stone, i drachm oil bitter 
almonds. 

FOR THE BATH. 

As a dressing in the bath, take 2 quarts water with 2 ounces 
glycerine, scented with rose, which will impart a final freshness and 
delicacy to the skin. 



.TOILET RECIPES. 607 

MILK OF ROSES. 

Drop by drop, add i ounce simple tincture benzoin to i quart 
rose-water — shaking all the time to avoid lumping. Then, i drop 
at a time, add 20 or 30 drops tincture myrrh ; mix well, bottle, 
cork, and bathe the face and neck with it once or twice a day. 



THE HAIR. 



The hair should be washed daily in pure water and rubbed dry 
with a soft towel, and should be thoroughly combed and brushed. 
A small quantity of oil may, if desired, be used ; olive oil is the 
simplest and best. 

The eyebrows should be daily brushed in the artistic line of the 
brow, and a few drops of olive oil may occasionally be applied with 
advantage. 

The eyelashes should have their tips cut once a month, and be 
washed daily in pure water. If subject to entanglement, the 
offending hairs may be clipped and trained away from each other. 
The eyelashes may, also, occasionally be touched with a little oil. 

To the moustache and beard, all that has been said about wash- 
ing, combing, brushing, cutting, and occasional oiling,, applies with 
equal force. 

HAIR DRESSING. 

One of the pleasantest and best of hair dressings can be made 
by the following recipe, which forms the base of many of the most 
popular preparations in use: 

Six ounces castor oil (pure and fresh), 2 ounces alcohol (95 per 
cent), I drachm oil bergamot ; mix and shake well. Bergamot is an 
exquisite and favorite perfume, but any fragrant oil, such as rose- 
mary or lavender, may be substituted, if preferred. The propor- 
tions of the recipe are excellent, yet one may make the dressing 
less oily, if liked, by omitting an ounce or two of the oil. 



6o8 TOILET RECIPES. 

BALDNESS. 

Dr. Wm. F. Hutchinson in the American Magazine says of the 
falling out of the hair: 

Baldness is so widely spread, and so universal among us that it 
is quite fashionable. Nevertheless, I shall give a couple of recipes 
for that form that is accompanied by falling of dandruff — what is 
technically known as dry seborrhea of the scalp. In 9-10 of these 
cases, a cure is possible; that is, hair may be restored if sufficient 
patience is allotted with other treatment. Owing to barbers' fail- 
ure to give back to man his hair, a general impression exists that it 
is no use to try ; once bald, always bald. 

This is scarcely ever true of seborrhea, not in 50 per cent of 
cases from other causes ; and whosoever will try these recipes will 
be convinced of their efficacy. 

For a week at the outset of treatment, the scalp is to be thor- 
oughly washed with a reliable tar soap, such as any apothecary 
sells, drying the hair thoroughly, but not rinsing out the tar. If 
hair has vanished, let the lather dry upon bare spots. Then begin 
with a wash composed of i drachm pure resorcin, y^ ounce castor 
oil, and 75^ ounces bay-rum ; mix. 

This is to be applied morning and night, and well rubbed in. 
After 2 weeks of this lotion have the following pomade prepared, and 
rub into scalp and hair a portion the size of a hazelnut every morn- 
ing: Ten grains salicylic acid, 5 grains ammoniated mercury, and i 
ounce cold cream. 

After one week's careful attention to this treatment, the bald 
spots will be covered with a fine, thick, silky growth, that is a fore- 
runner to a crop worth having. 

SUPERFLUOUS HAIRS. 
No drugs of any kind should be used to remove these; such 
remedies while destroying the hair-root, must of necessity injure 
the skin. The proper method is to pull each hair from its sheath 
by means of a pair of tweezers, and apply afterward a little car- 
bonate of bismuth moistened with glycerine. They will not grow 
again if the operation be performed properly. 



TOILET RECIPES. 609 



COLOGNE WATER. 



Take 5 drachms, each of essence of bargamot and of citron, 
4 drachms essence of lemon, 2^ drachms essence of rosemary, 
3 drops essence of orange-flower, i quart alcohol ; mix together. 
Those who prefer a fuller perfume may add 5 drachms of lavender. 

LAVENDER WATER. . 

Take i pint spirits of wine, ^ ounce lavender oil, ^ ounce ber- 
gamot, I shilling's worth of musk ; mix all together in a bottl:, and 
shake it occasionally. The longer it is kept the better it becomes. 

HOW TO KEEP BLACK GLOVES FROM CROCKING. 

Black cotton gloves will not crock the hands if scalded in salt 
and water before wearing. The salt prevents fading. When 
almost dry, one should put them on, in order to stretch them and 
keep them in good shape. 

CLEANING GLOVES. 

Take i quart deodorized benzine, i drachm sulphuric ether, i 
drachm chloroform, and 2 drachms alcohol. Cologne water can be 
added if desired. Pour a little of this into a clean bowl, and wash 
the gloves in it as you would wash anything. After the dirt is-, 
nearly out, rinse in more of the clean fluid. Usually i rinsing is. 
enough, but if the gloves are very much soiled, rinse the second 
time. If the gloves are of cheap kid it is best to dry them on the- 
hands, but a nice glove, after having been rubbed with a soft cloth 
to smooth out the wrinkles, may be hung on a line to dry. 

This preparation is an excellent thing to keep in the house, not 
only for cleaning gloves, but for taking out grease spots from car- 
pets and clothing, and for sponging coat collars and felt hats. 

TO CLEAN JEWELRY. 

Wash in soap suds; rinse in diluted alcohol, and lay in a box of 
dry sawdust to dry. As simple as this seems, it is the very nicest 
way possible to clean gold chains or ornaments of any kind. 

39 



6lO TOILET RECIPES. 

TO CLEAN HAIR BRUSHES. 

By using hot, moderately strong soda water to clean theni, the 
bristles of hair brushes will remain white and stiff for a long time. 

OFFENSIVE FEET. 

Take i part muriatic acid to lo parts water; rub the feet every 
night with this mixture before retiring to bed. 

SULPHUR AND TAR SOAPS. 

Take a i-pound bar of any good, hard white soap, cut it fine and 
put it into a small jar and set into a basin of water and set on the 
stove till the soap is melted, then stir in, thoroughly, i ounce of 
the flour of sulphur and pour into a paper or wooden box to cool, 
cut it into squares and dry it, and your sulphur soap will be as good 
as any you buy. For the tar soap, do the same as above, except 
stir in ]^ ounce creosote, which is the same in action as tar — con- 
tains the active principle of tar. Combine them if you like ; the 
combination works very mildly on any irritable skin. 

TOILET SOAP. 

One pound washing soda, i pound lard or clear tallow, ^ pound 
unslaked lime, i tablespoon salt, 3 quarts water. Put the soda and 
lime in a large dish, and pour over the water, boiling hot ; stir until 
dissolved; let it stand until clear; then pour off the clear liquid, 
add the grease and salt ; boil 4 hours, then pour into pans to cool. 
If it should be inclined to curdle or separate, indicating the lime to 
be too strong, pour in a little more water, and boil again. Perfume 
as you please, and pour into molds or a shallow dish, and, when 
cold, cut into bars to dry. 




MOTHERHOOD. 



CHA.PTBR XXXI. 



OUR LITTLE ONES. 



The awakening spring, the opening day, the rose or calla just 
bursting into bloom, and Hke initiatory functions of nature call 
forth our highest praise and admiration, but none of these call for 
the expression of love, solicitude and protecting care as does that 
trembling spark of humanity just launched forth in its bark on the 
wild tossing waves of life's deep sea. Baby is here, and we trust 
has come to stay, and to that end and his future welfare this 
chapter is indited. 

Beginning with the question of food, we shall touch those 
points which most appeal to baby's health and happiness. An old 
physician gave as a recipe for happy babies " plenty of sleep, plenty 
of milk and plenty of flannel." To this trinity many thousand 
healthy, happy babies can attest. 

At birth the stomach is feeble, and as yet unaccustomed to 
food ; its cravings are consequently easily satisfied, and frequently 
renewed. At that early age there ought to be no fixed time for 
giving nourishment. The stomach cannot be thus satisfied. The 
active call of the infant is a sign which needs never be mistaken. 

But care must be taken to distinguish between the crying of 
pain, uneasiness or loneliness, as is often the case when just awaken- 
ing from sleep, and the call for food ; and the practice of giving an 
infant food, to stop its cries, is often the means of increasing its 
suffering. After a child has satisfied its hunger, from 2 to 4 hours 
should intervene before another supply is given. 

At birth, the stomach and bowels, never having been used, con- 
tain a quantity of mucous secretion, which requires to be removed. 
To effect this, Nature has rendered the first portions of the 
mother's milk purposely watery and laxative. Nurses, however, 
distrusting nature, often hasten to administer some active purga- 
tive ; and the consequence often is, irritation in the stomach and 

611 



6l2 OUR LITTLE ONES. 

bowels, not easily subdued. It is only where the child is deprived 
of its mother's milk, as the first food, that some gentle laxative 
should be given. 

Take particular care of the food of an infant. If it is nourished 
by the mother, her own diet should be simple, nourishing, and tem- 
perate. If the child be brought up "by hand," the milk of a new- 
milch cow, mixed with one-third water, and sweetened a little with 
white sugar, should be the only food given, until the teeth come. 
This is more suitable than any preparations of flour and arrowroot, 
the nourishment of which is too highly concentrated. Never give 
a child bread, cake, or meat, before the teeth appear. If the food 
appear to distress the child after eating, first ascertain if the milk 
be really from a new-milch cow, as it may otherwise be too old. 
Learn, also, whether the cow lives on proper food. Cows that are 
fed on still-slops, as is often the case in cities, furnish milk which is 
very unhealthful. 

Dr. Clarke, Physician in Ordinary to the Queen of England, 
expresses views on one point, in which most physicians would coin- 
cide. He says, " There is no greater error in the management of 
children, than that of giving them animal diet very early. By per- 
severing in the use of an over-stimulating diet the digestive organs 
become irritated, and the various secretions immediately connected 
with digestion, and necessary to it, are diminished, especially the 
biliary secretion. Children so fed become very liable to attacks of 
fever, and inflammation, affecting particularly the mucous mem- 
branes: and measles and other diseases incident to childhood, are 
generally severe in their attacks." 

Be sure and keep a good supply of pure and fresh air in the nursery. 
An action, brought by the commonwealth, ought to lie against 
those persons who build houses for sale or rent, in which rooms are 
so constructed as not to allow of free ventilation ; and a writ of 
lunacy taken out against those who, with the common-sense exper- 
ience which all have on this head, should spend any portion of 
their time, still more, should sleep, in rooms thus nearly air-tight. 

After it is a month or two old, take an infant out to 
walk, or ride, every fair and warm day but be very careful 



OUR LITTLE ONES. 613 

that its feet, and every part of its body, are kept warm; and 
be sure that its eyes are well protected from the light. Weak 
eyes, and sometimes blindness, are caused by neglecting this 
precaution. Keep the head of an infant cool, never allowing 
too warm bonnets, nor permitting it to sink into soft pillows 
when sleeping. Keeping an infant's head too warm very much 
increases nervous irritability; and this is the reason why medical 
men forbid the use of caps for infants. But the head of an infant 
should, especially while sleeping, be protected from draughts of air, 
and from getting cold. 

Be veiy careful of the skin of an infant, as nothing tends so 
effectually to prevent disease. For this end, it should be washed 
all over every morning, and then gentle friction should be applied 
with the hand, to the back, stomach, bowels, and limbs. The head 
should be thoroughly washed every day, and then brushed with a 
soft hair-brush, or combed with a fine comb. If, by neglect, dirt 
accumulates under the hair, apply with a finger the yolk of an egg, 
and then the fine comb will remove it all, without any trouble. 

Dress the infant so that it will be always warm, but not so as to 
cause perspiration. Be sure and keep its feet always warm ; and 
for this often warm them at a fire, and use long dresses. Keep the 
neck and arms covered. For this purpose, wrappers, open in front, 
made high in the neck, with long sleeves, to put on over the frock, 
are now very fashionable. 

It is better for both mother and child, that it should not sleep 
on the mother's arm at night, unless the weather be extremely cold. 
This practice keeps the child too warm, and leads it to seek food 
too frequently. A child should ordinarily take nourishment but 
twice in the night. A crib beside the mother, with plenty of warm 
and light covering, is best for the child ; but the mother must be 
sure that it is always kept warm. 

Never cover a child s head, so that it will inhale the air of its 
own lungs. In very warm weather, especially in cities, great pains 
should be taken to find fresh and cool air by rides and sailing. 
Walks in a public square in the cool of the morning, and frequent 
excursions in ferry or steamboats, would often save a long bill for 



6l4 OUR LITTLE ONES. 

medical attendance. In hot nights, the windows should be kept 
open, and the infant laid on a mattress, or on folded blankets. A 
bit of straw matting, laid over a feather bed and covered with the 
under sheet, makes a very cool bed for an infant. 

Cool bathing, in hot weather, is very useful ; but the water 
should be very little cooler than the skin of the child. When the 
constitution is delicate, the water should be slightly warmed. Sim- 
ply sponging the body freely in a tub, answers the same purpose as 
a regular bath. In very warm weather, this should be done 2 or 3 
times a day, always waiting 2 or 3 hours after food has been given. 

When the stomach is peculiarly irritable, (from teething,) it is 
of paramount necessity to withhold all the nostrums which have 
been so falsely lauded as ** sovereign cures for cholera infantum." 
The true restoratives for a child threatened with disease are cool 
air, cool bathing, and cool drinks of simple water, in addition to 
proper food, at stated intervals. 

Do not take the advice of mothers who tell of this, that, and 
the other thing, which have proved excellent remedies in their 
experience. Children have different constitutions, and there are 
multitudes of different causes for their sickness ; and what might 
cure one child, might kill another, which appeared to have the same 
complaint. A mother should go on the general rule of giving an 
infant very little medicine, and then only by the direction of a dis- 
creet and experienced physician. And there are cases, when, 
according to the views of the most distinguished and competent 
practitioners, physicians themselves are much too free in using 
medicines, instead of adopting preventive measures. 

Do not allow a child to form such habits that it will not be quiet 
unless tended and amused. A healthy child should be accustomed 
to lie or sit in its cradle much of the time ; but it should occa- 
sionally be taken up and tossed, or carried about for exercise and 
amusement. An infant should be encouraged to creep, as an exer- 
cise very strengthening and useful. If the mother fears the soiling 
of its nice dresses, she can keep a long slip or apron which will 
entirely cover the dress, and can be removed when the child is 
taken in the arms. A child should not be allowed, when quite 



OUR LITTLE ONES. 615 

young, to bear its weight on its feet very long at a time, as this 
tends to weaken and distort the limbs. 

Many mothers, with a Httle painstaking, succeed in putting their 
infants into their cradle while awake, at regular hours for sleep ; 
and induce regularity in other habits, which saves much trouble. 
The remedy for sleepless babies is simplicity itself. At the same 
hour daily take the child into a darkened room of comfortable tem- 
perature, take off its boots, see that the little feet are warm; loosen 
its clothing, and let the natural organic functions of the body be 
attended to. Lay the child on a comfortable bed ; give it its 
food. If there is to be a lullaby let it be a veritable one, and not 
loud enough to waken the seven sleepers. The child may not go to 
sleep the first day, but do not despair; go through exactly the 
same performance the second day, and the third, and so on, always 
patiently. The mother's or nurse's mood, as much as anything, is 
a matter of moment. The quiet, the darkened room, the soothing 
voice, the perfect comfort of the body, will tell upon the rebellious 
little spirit before many trials have been made. The battle once 
won is easily held. 

In warm weather it is best to undress a child for its nap. 

Whatever the number of naps taken, they should evenly divide 
the waking hours so far as possible. For example, if there are two, 
let one be in the middle of the forenoon, and one in the middle of 
the afternoon ; if there is but one, it should come about noon. 

During this training process a child may cry, at first, a great 
deal; but for a healthy child, this use of the lungs does no harm, 
and tends rather to strengthen than to injure them, unless it 
becomes extremely violent. A child who is trained to lie or sit and 
amuse itself, is happier than one who is carried and tended a great 
deal, and thus rendered restless and uneasy when not so indulged. 

Crying children are oftener than not taught to cry. How many 
times one hears: "No, you cannot have that!" and then, after the 
baby has set up a prolonged howl: "Well, take it then, and stop 
your noise ! What is a body to do with such a child?" How often 
we should all cry if we got whatever we wanted by so doing. It is 
not an easy matter to break the crying habit once it is established. 



6l6 OUR LITTLE ONES. 

but it can be done and should be done. Stop putting the premium 
on crying. If the child can have what he wants, give it to him 
before he cries, not afterwards. A child does not have to be very 
old to learn whether he rules or is ruled. 

Not all children can be taught in the same way. Firmness and 
good judgment are desirable attributes for the teacher, whether it 
be father, mother, or nurse, but sympathy is also important. 

If the rational treatment of children were only for their good 
alone, it were surely worth while, but it means immunity from 
much wear and tear for the mother, and honestly-purchased peace 
and sunshine for the home as well. 

The most critical period in the life of an infant is that of denti- 
tion or teething, especially at the early stages. An adult has 32 
teeth, but young children have only 20, which gradually loosen and 
are followed by the permanent teeth. When the child has 10 teeth 
on each jaw, all that are added are the permanent set, which should 
be carefully preserved; this caution is needful, as sometimes decay 
in the first double teeth of the second set are supposed to be of the 
transient set, and are so neglected, or are removed instead of being 
preserved by plugging. When the first teeth rise so as to press 
against the gums, there is always more or less inflammation, causing 
nervous fretfulness, and the impulse to put everything into the 
mouth. Usually there is disturbed sleep, a slight fever, and greater 
flow of saliva; this is often relieved by letting the child have ice to 
bite, tied in a rag. 

The temporary teeth should not be removed until the new ones 
appear, as it injures the jaw and coming teeth ; but as soon as a new 
tooth is seen pressing upward, the temporary tooth should be 
removed, or the new tooth will come out of its proper place. 
If there is not room where the new tooth appears, the next tem- 
porary tooth must be taken out. Great mischief has been done by 
removing the first teeth before the second appear, thus making a 
contraction of the jaw. 

Most trouble with the teeth of young children comes from neg- 
lect to use the brush, to remove the tartar that accumulates near the 
gum, causing disease and decay. This disease is sometimes called 



OUR LITTLE ONES. 617 

scurvy, and is shown by an accumulation around the teeth and by 
inflamed gums that bleed easily. Removal of the tartar by a 
dentist and cleansing the teeth after every meal with a brush will 
usually cure this evil, which causes loosening of the teeth and a 
bad breath. 

When an infant seems ill during the period of dentition, the 
following directions from an experienced physician may be of 
service : It is now an accepted principle of all the medical world 
that fevers are to be reduced by cold applications; but an infant 
demands careful and judicious treatment in this direction; some 
have extremely sensitive nerves, and cold is painful. For such, 
tepid sponging should be used near a fire, and the coldness increased 
gradually. The sensations of the child should be the guide. Usu- 
ally, but not always, children that are healthy will learn by degrees 
to prefer cold water, and then it may safely be used. 

In case of constipation, this preparation of food is useful: 
One tablespoon of unbolted flour wet with cold water; add i pint 
hot water and boil 20 minutes. Add, when taken up, i pint milk. 
If the stomach seems delicate and irritable, strain out the bran, 
but in most cases retain it. 

The food of the infant is frequently a source of constipation. 
It may be too starchy, or if the infant is still in milk diet, there 
may be too much casein and too little sugar. An excellent author- 
ity speaks of the latter and recommends giving, when such a cause 
is suspected, a lump of sugar dissolved in warm water before each 
nursing. Dr. J. Lewis Smith recommends apple, scraped or baked, 
or apple sauce, which may be given to quite young children. 

A liberal use of water sometimes has a beneficial effect. Many 
forget to give the baby a drink of water, not remembering that 
that beverage is a necessity to the infant as well as to the adult. 

In case of diarrhoea, walk with the child in arms a great deal in 
the open air, and give it rice-water to drink. 

The warmth and vital influences of the nurse are very import- 
ant, and make this mode of exercise both more soothing and effica- 
cious, especially in the open air, the infant being warmly clad. 

In case of feverishness from teething or from any other cause, 



6l8 OUR UTTLE ONES. 

wrap the infant in a towel wrung out in tepid water and then wrap 
it in a woolen blanket. The water may be cooler according as the 
child is older and stronger. The evaporation of the water draws 
off the heat while the moisture soothes the nerves, and usually the 
child will fall into a quiet sleep. As soon as it becomes restless, 
change the wet towel and proceed as before. 

The leading physicians of Europe and of this country, in all 
cases of fever, use water to reduce them, by this and other modes 
of application. This method is more soothing than any other, and 
is as effective for adults as for infants. 



CHAPTKR XXXII. 



FOOD, DRINK AND NURSING. 



ACID DRINKS. 

1st. Peel or wash 60 or 70 Malaga grapes, and pour i pint 
boiling water upon them ; cover them and let them stand until the 
water is cold. 

2nd. Pour i pint boiling water upon 2 tablespoons currant jelly, 
and stir until the jelly is dissolved. 

3rd. Tart berries may be used in the same way to make very 
refreshing acid drinks for persons recovering from fevers. 

GUM ARABIC WATER. 

Suspend i ounce gum arable tied in a piece of thin cotton cloth 
in I pint warm water, in about i hour it will be dissolved ; squeeze 
into it the juice of i lemon and sweeten to taste. Cool with ice or 
by putting in a cool place. More water can be added if desired. 
Good in fevers. 

SLIPPERY-ELM TEA. 

Break the bark into bits, pour boiling water over it, cover, and 
let it infuse until cold. Sweeten, ice, and take for summer dis- 
orders, or add lemon-juice and drink for a bad cold. 

Put I teaspoon powdered slippery-elm into a tumbler, pour cold 
water upon it, and season with lemon and sugar. 

TAMARIND WATER. 

Put tamarinds into a pitcher or tumbler till it is J^ to ^ full; 
then fill up with cold water, cover it, and let it infuse for yi hour or 
more. 

Currant jelly or cranberry-juice mixed with water makes a pleas- 
ant drink for an invalid. 

619 



620 FOOD, DRINK AND NURSING. 

TOAST WATER, OR CRUST COFFEE. 

Take stale crusts of bread, toast them a nice, dark brown, care to 
be taken that they do not burn in the least, as that affects the 
flavor. Put the browned crusts into a large pitcher, and pour 
enough boiling water over to cover them ; cover the pitcher closely, 
and let stand until cold. Strain, and sweeten to taste; put a piece 
of ice in each glass. 

KOUMISS. 

Dissolve 4 ounces white sugar in i gallon skimmed milk, and 
place in bottles of the capacity of i gallon, add 2 ounces baker's 
yeast, or i cake of compressed yeast to each bottle ; cork and tie 
securely and set in a warm place until fermentation is well under 
way, then lay the bottles on their sides in a cool cellar. It will be 
good in 3 days. 

BEEF TEA. 

In the preparation of beef-tea, according to the following 
recipe, the albumen of the tissue is preserved in a fluid form and is 
easily assimilated, forming a true food : Take i pound fresh beef off 
the round, and scorch it quickly and very slightly on one side 
before the coals, cut it up as fine as hash, put it in an earthen bowl 
and pour on ^ pint tepid water (not over 90 '-' F.), and let it stand 
for 2 hours in summer temperature near the stove, covered by a 
saucer, on the kitchen mantelpiece. Then strain and squeeze 
through clean linen, take the expressed juice and put it in a thick 
pie-dish on the back of the stove, and stir steadily for 5 or 10 min- 
utes. Never let it get warmer than 150°. Try the temperature 
by the finger. When it takes a darker hue, as butternut or walnut 
shade, it is done; season with a little salt. If you heat it up to 
190°, all the albumen will coagulate, and it will be spoiled as a 
food. You may depend upon the deepening of the color. This 
beef-juice has a cooked flavor and is of a port-wine color. It is a 
valuable food. 



FOOD, DRINK AND NURSING. 62 1 

BEEF TEA. 

Cut all the fat from i pound fresh beef, then cut the lean meat 
into small dice-like pieces ; add i pint cold water to draw out the 
juices; boil 20 or 30 minutes, skimming it carefully, then strain, 
and salt to taste. 

PREPARED BEEF. 

Take i pound lean tender beef, remove every particle of fat 
from it, and scrape it up with a very sharp knife into a perfect 
pulp, then with a knife and fork — a sharp knife always — mince 
the pulp still finer, put it in a sauce-pan with salt and pepper to 
taste, I tablespoon cold water, 2 tablespoons rich sweet cream, a 
piece of fresh butter the size of a hen's egg, and set it on the stove 
to cook, stirring it constantly. 

When it has been cooking i or 2 minutes, but still looks 
rare, stir in i tablespoon cracker dust and i teaspoon mixed 
mustard. If you have no cracker dust, cream i teaspoon flour with 
butter and stir that in ; stir well and let it cook i or 2 minutes, but 
not too long, or it will be inevitably spoiled. Take it up while it 
is still slightly rare, or at most only just done. Use the same pro- 
portions in preparing a larger quantity for the table. It makes a 
charming breakfast dish. 

BEEF SANDWICHES. 

Scrape fine a small piece of fresh, juicy, tender raw beef; season 
highly with salt and pepper ; spread it on thin slices of bread, put 
them together like a sandwich, and cut into small squares or dia- 
monds. This will often tempt a patient who could not otherwise 
take raw meat. The sandwiches are sometimes made more palata- 
ble by toasting them slightly. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Make the same as mutton or beef broth. Boil the chicken 
slowly, putting on just enough water to cover it well, watching it 
closely that it does not boil down too much. When the chicken is 



622 FOOD, DRINK AND NURSING. 

tender, season with salt and a very little pepper. The yolk of an 
egg beaten light and added, is very nourishing. 

CREAM OF RICE. 

Cream of rice is a dainty dish to set before the king, or greater 
than the king, the convalescent friend. Things taste better for 
coming in unexpectedly, and the friends of invalids do well to rack 
their brains for some pretty novelty to waken appetite or restore 
exhausted strength. To make the cream of rice, boil the uncooked 
breast of a fowl and a cup of rice in chicken broth until soft enough 
to rub through a fine sieve ; thin the paste thus formed with boiling 
milk, seasoned with salt, pepper and nutmeg to the consistency of 
thick cream. 

EGG CREAM. 

Beat a raw egg to a stiff froth ; add i tablespoon white sugar, 
and ^ glass home-made blackberry or black cherry wine ; beat well ; 
add ^ glass cream ; beat thoroughly and use at once. This is a 
full meal for an invalid, and is especially good where trouble of 
throat, mouth or stomach prevents solid food being used. 

EGGS FOR THE SICK. 

To prepare an egg for a sick person, beat the egg until very 
light ; add seasoning to taste, and then steam until thoroughly 
steamed through. This will not take more than 2 minutes. The 
most delicate stomach will be able to digest it. 

SOFT-BOILED EGGS. 

Pour boiling water on a fresh egg in a teacup, cover with a 
saucer, and let it stand for 5 minutes or more. If 2 eggs are to be 
cooked, a small bowl may be used. This plan prevents the coagu- 
lation of the white, and is very delicate. 

GRUEL. 

Gruel can be made from oat-meal, wheat f^our, or corn-meal. In 
all cases these things should be first mixed smoothly, with a little 



FOOD, DRINK AND NURSING. 623 

cold water, and afterwards more water added ; boil, and season to 
taste. Two tablespoons of any of them is enough to make i pint, 
when boiled. A few raisins boiled in gruel is an improvement. 

GRUEL FOR INFANTS. 

To make a gruel for infants suffering from marasmus, take i 
pint goat's milk and the yolks of 2 eggs boiled sufificiently hard to 
reduce to an impalpable powder; add i pint boiling water, a little 
salt or sugar, and administer by a nursing bottle. 

ARROW-ROOT JELLY. 

One cup boiling water, 2 heaping teaspoons best Bermuda 
arrow-root, i teaspoon lemon-juice, and 2 teaspoons white sugar; 
wet the arrow-root in a little cold water, and rub smooth ; then stir 
into the hot water, which should be on the fire and actually boiling 
at the time, with the sugar already melted into it ; stir until clear, 
boiling steadily all the while, and add the lemon-juice; wet a cup 
in cold water, and pour in the jelly to form. Eat cold with sugar 
and cream, flavored with rose-water. 

BEEF JELLY FOR INVALIDS. 

Three small onions, 3 small or ij4 large carrots, a few whole 
cloves and black pepper, i small teaspoon sugar, i slice ham, 2 
calf's feet, i)4 pounds beef; put in the onions and other ingredients 
in succession ; place the ham on top, then the calf's feet, and lastly 
the beef; no water; put on the side of the range, and let it stand 
until reduced to a soft mass; then add i quart water and let it boil 
I hour; strain and let stand until cold, then take ofT the fat- Use 
by dissolving a little in hot water. 

MILK JELLY. 

As a variation in milk diet, the following is recommended by 
Prof. Liebreich : Heat i quart milk with i pound sugar, and when 
the sugar is dissolved continue the heat, at a boiling temperature, 
for about 10 minutes. Now cool it well and then add, slowly 



624 FOOD, DRINK AND NURSING. 

stirring, a solution of i ounce gelatine in i cup water; next add the 
juice of 3 or 4 lemons ; set the glasses containing the mixture in a 
cold place, so that the contents may gelatinize. It is necessary to 
have the milk quite cold before the other ingredients are added, as 
it would otherwise curdle. 

SAVORY JELLY. 

To I packet gelatine put i pint cold water and let it soak yi 
hour, then pour on it 2 pints boiling water, and stir until thoroughly 
dissolved; add to it i pound white sugar — a little more if you do 
not think it quite sweet enough; tastes vary in this respect — i 
3-inch long stick cinnamon, the thinly-pared rind of 2 lemons, and 
the juice of 3 ; let this cool until just milk-warm ; beat 3 eggs, 
first draining off the whites carefully into a bowl; dip out i teacup 
jelly, and mix it well with egg-white, then stir all into the jelly ; 
mix it in thorougJdy, pour the jelly into a porcelain-lined kettle, 
and set it on a slow f^.re; stir it constantly, until it begins to boil 
and rise up towards the top of the kettle, then lift it off, and let it 
stand a minute or two ; there will be a foam on top, which must be 
skimmed off; dip out the stick of cinnamon and pieces of lemon 
rind, and then pour the jelly through a flannel bag; it will take a 
very little time to run through, and will be beautifully clear and 
sparkling and perfectly delicious; do not beat the egg-whites as 
in our grandmother's recipes — stir them in unbeaten ; fewer eggs 
are required, and the jelly runs through the bag without waste or 
loss of time, and could not be clearer or more beautiful. 

WINE JELLY. 

Dissolve Yz ounce gelatine in i gill water; add i teaspoon thick 
gum arable water, a little grated nutmeg, and i tablespoon granu- 
lated sugar, stirring well together in a stew-pan, adding now yi pint 
good port wine, heating to the boiling point, seeing that the sugar is 
dissolved, then pour into tumblers. Makes a fine jelly for the sick, 
to eat as a " jell " or to dissolve in a little cold water as a drink. 
Very nice when wine is admissible, which it generally is. 



FOOD, DRINK AND NURSING. 625 

PANADA. 

Break in a bowl 2 large crackers, sprinkle a little salt over them, 
and pour on boiling water enough to cover. When they look clear, 
they are ready to eat. Some invalids like a little pepper over them, 
with water enough to be something like soup, and others prefer to 
keep the crackers whole, and slide them out on a saucer and eat 
with cream and sugar. 

CHICKEN PANADA. 

Skin the chicken and cut it up into joints ; take all the meat off 
the bones, and cut up into small pieces; put it into a jar with a 
little salt, tie it down, and set it in a sauce-pan of boiling water. It 
should boil from 4 to 6 hours ; then pass it through a sieve with a 
little of the broth. It could be made in a hurry in 2 hours, but it 
is better when longer time is allowed. Do not put the wings in 
the panada. 

MILK PORRIDGE. 

Two cups best oatmeal, 2 cups water, 2 cups milk ; soak the oat 
meal over night in the water ; strain in the morning, and boil the 
water ^ hour; put in the milk with a little salt, boil up well, and 
serve. Eat warm, with or without powdered sugar. In very warm 
weather the oatmeal may sour by morning, and there is a desiccated, 
oatmeal now sold which can be used without soaking over night. 

STEWED RAISINS. 

Take I pound best raisins, pick them free from stalks ; cover fn> 
a dish with cold water, steep all night ; put them in a stew-pan and 
bring the water to the boiling point, then simmer until the skins are 
quite tender; turn into a dish to cool, and they are ready for use. 
This, with bread, is an excellent dish for persons of weak digestion 
or for invalids. 

SOUP FOR AN INVALID. 

Cut in small pieces i pound beef or mutton, or a part of both j 
boil it gently in 2 quarts water; take off the scum, and, when 
reduced to a pint, strain it. Season with a little salt, and take i; 
teacup at a time. 

40 



626 FOOD, DRINK AND NURSING. 

NURSING. 

The following suggestions may be fornd useful in regard to 
nursing the sick: 

" The sick room should be the most quiet and cheerful room in 
the house, one far enough removed, if possible, to avoid the sounds 
from the living rooms, as quiet is one of the cardinal virtues in suc- 
cessful treatment. If the room has a fire-place, so much the better, 
as it will help in regard to another important thing, and that is 
pure air. Nothing contributes more to the restoration of the sick, 
than a proper amount of ventilation. At least twice in every 24 
hours the patient should be well covered, and fresh air freely 
admitted from out of doors, after which, if necessary, the room 
may be restored to the proper temperature by fire. Bedding and 
clothing should also be well aired and frequently changed, as the 
exhalations from a sick person's body are peculiarly deleterious, 
and if the case admits, which it usually does, bathe the whole body 
frequently with tepid water. Another essential feature is neatness. 
A sick person has nothing to do but look around him, and when 
everything is neat and in order a feeling of comfort is induced, 
Avhile the reverse, though it may not call forth any remarks, are 
nevertheless felt. 

Whenever medicine or food is given, spread a clean towel or nap- 
kin so as to protect the clothes, as nothing is more trying to a weak 
stomach than soiled or sticky covering. 

Food should always be prepared in the daintiest manner. The 
sense of smell and taste are most susceptible of annoyance, and a 
little negligence in the preparation of food will take away the appe- 
tite. How often will those who have been sick and well attended, 
look back and almost feel hungry when they think how nice the 
food tasted, brought in temptingly arranged on a little napkin- 
lined server, the beefsteak broiled and seasoned just right, the toast 
thin and brown, and the most fragrant tea in a dainty cup; the 
nurse sweet, gentle and quiet, brought food or drink at the proper 
time, did not annoy with unnecessary questions, and when she went 
out or in did not rend the door from its hinges. 

Stirring up the bed, turning and cooling the pillows, bathing the 



FOOD, DRINK AND NURSING. 62^ 

hands and face, drying them thoroughly afterward and all such 
attentions are always appreciated by those unable to administer to 
their own wants. 

Another important matter is to understand the doctor's direc- 
tions and to obey them to the letter. If fullest confidence is not 
placed in the physician in charge it is better to get one in whom 
you can rely as the most skillful one will be successfully baffled in 
his efforts by negligence on the part of the nurse. Knowledge, 
presence of mind, common sense, patience and gentleness are the 
essential qualities for a good nurse, and those who are called upon 
to act in that capacity should exercise to their greatest ability these 
virtues ; as one writer remarks : " We are slow to learn the mighty 
influence of common agencies and the greatness of little things in 
their bearing upon life and health. The woman who believes it 
takes no strength to bear a little noise or disagreeable announce- 
ments, and loses patience with the weak, nervous invalid who is 
agonized with creaking doors or shoes, loud, shrill voices or rustling 
papers, sharp, fidgety motions, or the whispering so common in 
sick rooms and often so acutely distressing to the sufferer, will soon 
correct such misapprehensions by experiencing for herself a nervous 
fever. 

The true nurse is ideal, but there are some who approach it 
closely ; her voice is low and gentle, her touch soft and restful ; she 
dresses in soft garments that do not rustle as she moves quietly 
about ; her face is calm and hopeful, and seems surrounded by a 
presence that conveys at once confidence and healing to the sick. 

We cannot close this article in a better way than by emphasizing 
the observance, on the part of those who are called upon to take a 
place in this field of labor, of the main points enumerated, for by so 
doing they will be a blessing to themselves, to those under their 
care, and, moreover, comply with one of the principal teachings of 
" Him who came to minister and not to be ministered unto." 

AN EMERGENCY DRAWER. 

In this drawer let there always be ready for use court-plaster, 
adhesive-plaster and scissors to cut them, i bottle of arnica and i 



628 FOOD, DRINK AND NURSING. 

of hamamelis, i of ipecac syrup, which your physician will teach 
you to prepare for croup ; i of sweet oil and some vasaline or cos- 
molinc ; roll bandages of various widths, pieces of old soft linen or cot- 
ton, a sponge, strips of flannel for outward bandages over wet com- 
presses, a pair of forceps, a ball of woolen yarn to tie up cut fingers, 
a pin-cushion with pins, big and little, and needles ready threaded, 
one with white silk for sewing up wounds, the other with white thread 
for sewing on bandages ; some cotton-batting, a rubber hot-water 
bottle, a syringe and an alcohol lamp. 

To prepare bandages, cut or tear old sheets into strips ranging 
in width from i to 4 inches, each strip to be rolled by itself making 
upon the table with the right hand while the left holds it in posi- 
tion. After using these prepared bandages you will never wish to 
return to hap-hazard rags for doing up cut fingers. 



CHAPTKR XXXIII. 



DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 



In giving medicines, be exact. As a rule, females are more 
responsive to medical treatment than males and require smaller 
doses. If the full dose between 2i and 60 years of age, is 60 
grains or drops, the proportion from 14 to 21 years will be 40 grains 
or drops ; from 7 to 14 years, 30; from 4 to 7 years, 20; at 4 years, 
15; at 3 years, 10; at 2 years, 8 ; at i year, 3. The size of the 
drop depends on the density of the fluids, shape of bottle, etc. Of 
most diluted medicines, i teaspoonful equals 60 drops or 1-8 of an 
ounce ; i medium size tablespoon equals 4 teaspoons ; i dessert- 
spoon equals 2 teaspoons ; i gill equals 8 tablespoons. It is better 
to begin with the dose indicated for a person younger than the 
patient, and gradually increase the dose until the desired effect is 
produced. 

ASTHMA. 

Take i drachm each of powdered licorice root, powdered elcam- 
pane root, powdered anise-seed, 10 grains powdered ipecac, 10 
grains powdered lobelia; add sufificient amount of tar to form 
into pills of ordinary size. Take 3 or 4 pills on going to bed at 
night. An excellent remedy for asthma or shortness of breath. 

Gather the green leaves of the stramonium, after the plant 
blossoms, and dry them in the shade. When dry, soak a few hours 
in a strong solution of purified nitre, common saltpeter does not 
answer, 3 ounces to i pint soft water. Powder the nitre finely, and 
pour on hot water to dissolve it. Soak the dried leaves in this solu- 
tion, re-dry in the shade, then pulverize the leaves and keep from 
the air in box or bottle. Put a rounding teaspoon of the nitrated 
powder on a plate, and touch a lighted match to the heap, when, 
if properly done, it burns without a blaze, throwing off considerable 
smoke. Breathe the smoke arising from it and inhale as much as 

629 



630 DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 

you can of the fumes. It will cause some coughing at first, but 
this helps to clear the throat and bronchial tubes of phlegm, and 
soon subsides and gives great relief. 

Get a muskrat skin and wear it over the lungs, with the fur side 
next to the body. It will bring relief. 

PECKHAM'S BALSAM. 
For Coughs, Sore Throat, Sore Chest, Kidney Difficulties, Wounds^ 
etc. — Three pounds clear, pale rosin, i quart spirits of turpentine, 
I ounce balsam of tolu, 4 ounces balsam of fir, i ounce each oil 
of hemlock, origanum, and Venice turpentine, 4 ounces strained 
honey. Melt the rosin in a suitable kettle or pan over a stove in 
the day time, so that it shall not be necessary to have a lamp or 
candle near ; and when not too hot put in the turpentine gradually. 
Mix well and bottle. Dose — Six to 12 drops ; for a child of 6 years, 
3 to 5 drops on a little sugar. The dose can be varied according 
to the ability of the stomach to bear it and the necessity of the 
case. 

BITTERS. 

Blood Bitters. — Put i ounce yellow-deck root and i cup grated 
horse-radish in i quart hard cider, cold. It will be ready the next 
day and should be taken, i wine-glass before each meal. This made 
by the gallon and taken through the season will affect the growth 
of the hair and improve the appearance in every way, provided the 
strength is kept up by well selected food. Cheap and good. 

Hop Bitters. — Three ounces hops, i ounce buchu leaves ; steep 
in 8 quarts water 3 hours, closely covered ; when cool, strain and 
squeeze ; then add 2 ounces extract dandelion, 40 drops podophyllin 
and I quart alcohol ; cork tightly. Sliakc well before using. DosE — 
I tablespoon. 

Grandmother s Family Spring Bitters. — One ounce mandrake 
root, I ounce dandelion root, i ounce burdock root, i ounce yellow 
dock root, 2 ounces prickly ash berries, i ounce marsh mallow, ^ 
ounce turkey rhubarb, i ounce gentian, 1 ounce English chamomile 
flowers, 2 ounces red clover tops. 

Wash the herbs and roots; put them into an earthen vessel. 



DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 631 

pour over 2 quarts water that has been boiled and cooled ; let it 
stand over night and soak ; in the morning, set it on the back of the 
stove, and steep it 5 hours ; it must not boil, but be nearly ready to 
boil ; strain it through a cloth, and add ^ pint good gin. Keep 
it in a cool place. One-half wine-glass taken as a dose twice a day. 

BLEEDING. 

First decide whether the blood comes from an artery or a vein. 
If from a vein, the blood is dark, and oozes or flows evenly ; if from 
an artery, it is bright red and spurts in jets. In the former case, 
the bleeding may generally be stopped by binding on a hard pad. 
In case of a ruptured artery, the flow of blood may be checked by 
tying a twisted handkerchief, a cord, or strap, between the wound 
and the body. If the hand is cut, raise the arm above the head 
and bind it tightly. In wounds of the throat, arm-pit, or groin, 
caused by cuts, and in case of any deep wound, thrust the thumb 
and finger into the bottom of the wound and pinch up the part from 
which the blood comes, directing the pressure against the flow. 

The application to the wounds of cold cloths, ice, or, in severe 
cases, alum, tannin, or " Monsell's Solution" (liquor of the sub-sul- 
phate of iron), will usually stop the bleeding. In hemorrhages from 
the lungs, the blood is bright red and frothy. Place the patient in 
bed and give bits of ice to swallow, also teaspoons of salt and vine- 
gar. Hemorrhages from the stomach are dark red. Ice should be 
given, to be swallowed, and also doses of vinegar. The patient 
should be kept quiet, and, according to the intensity of the bleeding, 
" Monsell's Solution" in 20 drop doses should be given every 15 min- 
utes until the physican arrives. Keep the patient in a horizontal posi- 
tion, with the head low ; supply fresh air by fanning, and place ice- 
cold applications in the locality from which the blood flows. 

In Nosebleed. — Keep the patient's arms elevated, apply cold 
water or ice to the base of the brain, or inject vinegar or alum 
water up the nostrils with a syringe. A thick piece of wrapping 
paper, placed between the upper lip and gum and firmly pressed, 
will usually arrest the flow. It acts by compressing the arteries 
which supply the Sneiderian membrane. If these remedies fail, the 
case should have the attention of a physician. 



6^2 DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 

BOILS. 

Boils are efforts of nature to relieve the body of some impurity 
which, retained in the system, would be prejudicial to health. 
Encourage suppuration by applying flaxseed-meal poultices as hot 
as can be borne, until the boil breaks and the core comes away. As 
soon as the upper portion of the boil becomes soft, cut it open to 
facilitate the discharge. If troubled with coming one after another, 
or with many, take lime water (see " Miscellaneous Recipes "), i 
wineglass 3 or 4 times a day. 

BURNS AND SCALDS. 

Pour cold water on the clothing if still hot; remove clothing by 
cutting and allowing it to fall off; if adherent in places cut around 
them and leave on ; large blisters may be opened at lower margin 
with a needle ; dissolve 2 large teaspoons bicarbonate soda in i pint 
water, pour gently over the burns; while the surface is wet sprinkle 
wheat flour over the burns; apply quickly; get a mixture of lime 
water and linseed oil, equal parts ; apply this with a feather over 
the flour ; repeat as it dries. 

BRUISES AND SPRAINS. 

These are best treated with showerings of water, after which do 
them up in bandages wrung out in arnica and water or hamamelis 
and water. In all cases keep bandages moist, without undoing 
them. Sprains are often very troublesome. Absolute rest for the 
injured point is a prime necessity. 

To remove discoloration from bruises apply a cloth wrung out 
in very hot water, and renew frequently until the pain ceases; or, 
apply raw beefsteak. 

CARRON OIL. 

Mix equal parts of lime water (see " Miscellaneous Recipes'') and 
linseed oil together; shake when using, as it separates. The finest 
thing in the world for burns and scalds. So called from the " Car- 
ron Iron Works," in Scotland, where it is a standard remedy among 
the workmen. 



DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 633 

SIMPLE REMEDY FOR CATARRH. 

Take a common pitcher, holding 2 quarts or more, heat it thor- 
oughly, and fill ^ full with steaming, boiling water; add instantly 
I teaspoon oil of tar ; then inhale the steam through the nostrils 
and exhale through the mouth; put the nose well into the mouth 
of the pitcher and take a deep, full inhalation, letting the air pass 
out through a very small opening of the lips ; continue this 10 or 
20 minutes at a time 2 or 3 times daily; drink i cup hot water 
after each treatment, also ^ or ^ hour before breakfast. 

sage's CATARRH REMEDY, 

Take i ounce powdered golden seal, 10 grains fine salt and 10 
grains powdered borax ; dissolve in i quart water. 

CARBUNCLES. 

Carbuncles are malignant boils, but differ from common boils in 
having no central core, being composed of cells like a honeycomb; 
they are also larger and much more sensitive and painful. Apply 
poultices, as for boils, and let the diet be generous but not rich. 
Acid fruits should be used freely. When practicable, a physician 
should be consulted. (See ''Boils.'') 

CHICKEN-POX. 

Chicken-pox is well understood by most mothers. In delicate 
children, the spots, instead of drying up in the ordinary way, become 
more sore, forming little festers which are troublesome to heal. 
Tonic medicines are required, with change of air. Do not let the 
child take cold, lest serious lung trouble may result. Cover the 
chest and belly with cotton cloths saturated with sweet oil. 

CHILBLAIN OINTMENT. 

One drachm powdered nut-galls, 7 drachms simple cerate, 2 
drachms glycerine. 

LINIMENT FOR CHILBLAINS. 

Three drachms spirits turpentine, 9 drachms camphorated oil; 
mix for a Hniment. For an adult 4 drachms of the former and 8 of 



634 DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 

the latter may be used. If the child be young, or if the skin be 
tender, the camphorated oil may be used without the turpentine. 

CHOLERA. 

During an epidemic there should be as little change as possible 
from regular habits and diet. The body should be warmly clothed ; 
undergarments, which have become wet with perspiration, should 
be removed, the skin rubbed briskly, and dry clothes put on. A 
broad woolen bandage worn around and below the waist, encircling 
the abdomen, will be found of great value in warding off all kinds 
of summer sickness. In cholera seasons, laxity of the bowels should 
receive prompt attention. A person who neglects the premonitory 
or diarrhea stage is in serious danger. (See " Neutralizing Cor- 
dial y^ 

CHOLERA REMEDY. 

Mix in a small bottle equal parts tincture of opium (laudanum), 
rhubarb, capsicum, camphor, spirits of nitre, and essence of pep- 
permint, double strength. Shake well, and cork tight. Dose, from 
5 to 30 drops every 15 minutes. Dose for children, from 2 to 10 
drops. 

CHOLERA INFANTUM. 

Give I or 2 teaspooons of the Neutralizing Cordial every hour 
or Yi hour, according to the urgency of the symptoms, and continue 
the same until the passages become healthy ; if there is much pain, 
mix, with cold water, i teaspoon mustard, and 4 of fine meal or 
flour; spread the paste on a thin cloth, which should be laid on the 
abdomen and remain until the skin becomes red. Cholera infantum 
may be prevented by keeping a flannel bandage constantly over the 
bowels during warm weather. 

CHOLERA MORBUS. 

Cholera morbus arises from a diseased condition of the bile, 
often brought on by over-indulgence in vegetables, especially 
unripe fruits, usually commencing with sickness and pain at the 
stomach, followed by the most excruciating pain and griping of the 



DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 635 

bowels, succeeded by vomiting and purging, which soon prostrate 
the patient. No time should be lost in treating the severe stages of 
this disease. Give the patient copious drinks of whey, warm barley 
water, thin water gruel, or chicken broth ; bathe the feet and legs 
in warm saleratus water, and apply warm fomentations of hops and 
vinegar to the bowels ; a poultice of mustard and strong vinegar 
will be found of much service. The vomiting and purging may be 
stopped by the following: One tablespoon ground black pepper, 
I tablespoon table salt, ^ tumbler warm water, yi tumbler cider 
vinegar. Dose, i tablespoon every few minutes; stir and mix each 
time until the whole is taken. The evacuations, however, should 
not be stopped until the patient feels very weak ; nourishing diet 
should be taken by the patient. 

COLDS. 

When you feel a cold coming on, with headache, and a creep- 
ing, chilly sensation, nothing is better than to take a Turkish 
or vapor bath, or, if you can spare time, go to bed, take 10 grains 
Dover's powder, with a little sugar, put a large hot bran or oat-meal 
poultice over your chest, and in i hour after take i pint hot tea or 
thin gruel, and put on an extra blanket or two. The next morning 
you should rub well all over with a coarse towel, and take a seid- 
Htz powder or a large teaspoon epsom salts in warm water, or, when 
busy, drink i pint hot tea, put on extra clothing, walk till the per- 
spiration starts freely, and then cool off gradually. If you have a 
cold " hanging on " which is not very bad, a liberal drink of cold 
water just before going to bed and extra bedclothes is good 
without medicine. What you do, do well. 

COUGH SYRUP. 

One ounce essence hemlock, 2 ounces castor oil, i pint molasses, 
I teaspoon camphor; mix essence, oil and camphor together, and 
shake thoroughly ; then add to the molasses. Dose, i teaspoon 
from 4 to 6 times a day. Though simple, it has accomplished 
wonderful results. 



6^6 DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 

STANDARD COUGH SYRUP. 

Take i ounce thoroughwort, i ounce slippery-elm, i ounce stick 
licorice, and i ounce flaxseed ; simmer together in i quart water 
until the strength is entirely extracted ; strain carefully, add i pint 
best molasses and ^ pound loaf sugar ; simmer them all well together, 
and when cold bottle tight. No better remedy can be found for 
croup, asthma, bronchitis, and all affections of the lungs and throat. 

COUGH MIXTURE. 

Two ounces gum arable, i ounce paregoric elixir, 2 ounces 
sugar, juice of i lemon ; mix with 6 glasses hot water. One wine- 
glass to be taken morning, noon and night. 

Or, boil I ounce flaxseed in i pint water; strain and add a little 
honey, i ounce rock candy, and the juice of 3 lemons; mix and boil 
well. Drink as hot as possible. 

COLIC. 

Both bilious and wind colic should be treated promptly and 
energetically. If the trouble is in the stomach, an emetic will 
sometimes prove useful. If pain continues, lay hot cloths or a 
mustard plaster on the bowels, or administer a hot bath, and give an 
injection of warm water. For infants, heat i teaspoon sweet oil, 
add I drop laudanum, mix well, and rub it gently over the baby's 
bowels. If this does not relieve the pain, prepare the following 
mixture : Thirty drops paregoric, i tablespoon compound spirits of 
ether, 6 large tablespoons or 2 ounces orange-flower water; shake 
the mixture, and give ^ teaspoon every 10 or 15 minutes, if the 
child is under 6 months of age, or ^ teaspoon if older. If the colic 
is caused by constipation, an injection of warm — not hot — sweet 
oil, in connection with the above treatment, will be found beneficial. 

FIG PASTE FOR CONSTIPATION. 

One-half pound good figs, chopped fine, ^ pint molasses, 2 
ounces powdered senna leaves, i drachm finely-powdered coriander 
seed, I drachm finely-powdered cardamon seed; put the molasses 



DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 637 

on the stove and let it come to a boil, then stir in all the rest and 
bring to a boil again. One teaspoon once in a while is a dose. It 
will keep, when covered, for i year. 

The following simple remedy we know to have cured a most 
stubborn and distressing case of costiveness : Take i heaping table- 
spoon bran, mixed with milk or water, before meals. 

HABITUAL CONSTIPATION. 

Twelve grains compound extract colocynth, 6 grains powdered 
rhubarb, i grain extract belladonna, 3 grains extract hyoscyamus; 
divide into 60 pills. Dose, i pill at bedtime. 

CONVULSIONS. 

Put the child, as quickly as possible, up to his neck in a warm 
oath about blood heat ; keep it so by careful addition of hot water. 
Put a napkin wrung out of cold water around his head, and let him 
remain 10 or 15 minutes, then take him out and wrap in a warm 
blanket, and usually he will be all right. Diet is the great preven- 
tion in most cases. If the convulsions are accompanied by frothing 
at the mouth with bloody linge, it is usually epilepsy, which is sel- 
dom cured or outgrown, and little can be done except to keep the 
patient from hurting himself. 

CORNS AND BUNIONS. 

Thrusting the toe into a lemon, to be kept on over night, will 
make the removal of a corn easy ; 2 or 3 applications will suffice for 
the worst cases. Soft corns may be relieved by dissolving a piece 
of ammonia, the size of a large bean, in i ounce water, and applying 
the solution as hot as can be borne. 

Applying strong acetic acid night and morning will usually effect 
a cure. 

GERMAN CORN SALVE. 

Ten parts salicylic acid, 10 parts lactic acid, 80 parts collodion. 
Make into a salve. It is a dead-shot for corns. 



638 DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 

CRAMPS. 

Cramp in the limbs may be relieved by simple rubbing, or by 
applying an embrocation of camphorated oil, turpentine and spirits 
hartshorn. When the cramp is located in the stomach or bowels, 
flannels dipped in hot water, wrung out, and laid over the parts 
affected, relieve the pain. Cramps in the bowels occur in colic. 
(For further treatment see "Cc/zV.") 

CROUP, MEMBRANOUS AND SPASMODIC. 

Croup is an acute inflammation of the windpipe, and is a 
dangerous disease, peculiar to young children. Its symptoms are 
those of a common cold, followed by hoarseness and a peculiar 
ringing or rattling cough, accompanied with loud and difficult 
breathing. When practicable, a physician should be summoned at 
once. Membranous croup can be distinguished by the presence of 
grayish spots in the throat, and is extremely dangerous. Adminis- 
ter an emetic of mustard and water, ipecac, or other simple ingredi- 
ents; apply a sponge, filled with water as hot as can be borne, 
directly to the windpipe, also, hot flannels, or hot and moist poul- 
tices of flaxseed-meal, mullein leaves, or hops, to the upper part of 
the chest. A hot bath will sometimes afford great relief, also, the 
placing of the child where, without danger of scalding, it can 
breathe the steam from a tea-kettle, or other vessel of boiling 
water, containing pieces of unslacked lime; or, saturate flannel 
with spirits of turpentine, and place upon throat and chest ; this 
has the credit of being a sovereign remedy; if considerable dis- 
tress is manifested when the child wakes up, and after the flannel 
has been applied a few minutes, 3 to 5 drops turpentine may be 
given on a lump of sugar. Always keep turpentine in the house. 

CUTS. 

For a simple cut doing it up in its own blood is the best remedy. 
If there is dirt in the wound it must be washed out ; otherwise it 
is better not to have water touch it. A slight cut wall be held 
together by the bandage, put on smoothly and tied with a woolen 



DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 639 

yarn. If the cut is deep draw the edges of the wound together, 
and hold in place by strips of adhesive plaster, and then put on the 
bandage. Sometimes a stitch is necessary. A steady hand and a 
little nerve will enable you to take it with the white silk threaded 
in the needle on your cushion. Press a cork against the flesh where 
the needle is to come out (see " Bleeding^) 

DIARRHCEA. 

In most cases castor oil, or, in case of an infant, i teaspoon 
spiced syrup rhubarb, should be given to remove the irritating sub- 
stance from the stomach and bowels, open the pores and free the 
system, after which it may be treated same as Summer Sickness. In 
case of nausea and vomiting, a little paregoric may be administered. 
If inflammation or ulceration be present, treat as for dysentery. 
See " Dysentery^ 

DIPHTHERIA. 

This disease is characterized by soreness of the throat, pain in 
swallowing, and the appearance of a grayish membrane in the back 
of the throat. There is usually a low fever, with great depression 
of spirits and rapid decrease of the patient's strength. However 
mild in appearance, diphtheria is always dangerous and frequently 
fatal. Upon its approach, and until a physician can be obtained, 
the patient should gargle the throat with pure lemon or lime 
juice, a solution of chlorate of potash, sulphur and water, or alcohol 
and water, repeating the treatment every 2 or 3 hours. Small 
children who cannot gargle should have the interior of the throat 
painted with lemon or lime juice, at similar intervals. Powdered 
sulphur, blown into the throat, is very effective (see sulphur treat- 
ment in ''Scarlet Fever''). Wine, brandy, beef-extract, or eggs, 
should be given to keep up the strength. Blankets, sheets, and 
pillow cases, which have been in contact with, or used by, the 
patient, must be washed in boiling water. Rags and towels should 
be burned. There is danger of infection from the patient for 14 
days after the membrane has disappeared. 



640 DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 

OIL OF TURPENTINE IN DIPHTHERIA. 

Give oil of turpentine by the teaspoon 3 times a day. As a 
corrective mix 32 drops of the spirits of nitre to every Yz ounce 
of turpentine. At the same time give a 2 per cent. (8 grains to 
each ounce of water) solution of sodium salicylate every 2 hours ; 
also use iceDags, and have the patient gargle freely with a i per 
cent. (4 grains to each ounce of water) solution of chlorate of 
potash. Give smaller doses of turpentine according to age. 

DISINFECTANTS. 

In all contagious diseases, as fevers, measles, scarlet fever, diph- 
theria, suiall pox, whooping cough, cholera, etc., it is very import- 
ant that everything which has come in contact with an infected 
person should be thoroughly purified. To disinfect an unoccupied 
room, close every door and window, and stop every opening or 
crevice with old rags or tow. Burn sulphur in saucers, or place 
some pure carbolic acid in shallow vessels around the room. Wash 
the furniture and floors with a solution of chloride of lime. Strip 
off all wall paper and whitewash the walls and ceilings. To disin- 
fect an occupied room, ventilate well ; keep up a good fire ; fumi- 
gate with chloride of lime or carbolic acid, cautiously, so as not to 
inconvenience the patient. Articles of clothing and bedding which 
have been used by infected persons, also the carpets and curtains of 
a sick room,, may be disinfected by washing or boiling — being 
exposed to a heat of from 200 ^ to 400 '^ . In some cases the only 
safe course will be to destroy all such things by fire. Sinks, privies, 
drains, and vessels used by a person afflicted with cholera, dysen- 
tery, or any other contagious disease, should be flushed at least 
once a day with copperas or carbolic acid. For stopping putrid 
effluvia or rotting, or for disinfecting damp cellars, use chloride of 
lime wet with strong vinegar. Fresh air and extreme heat or cold 
are good disinfectants. 

DRAUGHTS FOR THE FEET. 

Take a large leaf of horse-radish, burdock, cabbage, or mullen ; 
cut out the hard fibres that run through the leaf ; place it on a hot 



DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 641 

shovel for a moment to soften it, fold it, and fasten it closely in the 
hollow of the foot by a cloth bandage. 

Draughts of onions are made by roasting onions in hot ashes, 
and, when quite soft, peel off the outside, mash them, and apply on 
a cloth as usual. 

DROWNING. 

In cases of drowning empty the water out of the mouth and 
nostrils and, if possible, restore circulation by rubbing, and respira- 
tion by artificial breathing ; lay the patient on his back with head 
and shoulders slightly raised ; grasp both arms above the elbow, 
raise them gently and steadily upward until they reach above the 
head, then bring down and press gently on the sides. This should 
occupy 4 seconds, making 15 times a minute. Continue this steady 
movement with the rubbing till signs of life appear, or you give up 
hope. If a galvanic battery can be procured it can be used to 
advantage in starting action at the nerve centers. 

DYSENTERY. 

When the discharges are tinged with blood, care must be taken 
not to check them. The patient should be kept in bed and a good 
dose of castor oil should be administered. If the discharges con- 
tinue, give injections of thin starch, a goblet full each time, to 
which 20 drops laudanum and i teaspoon tincture of ipecac have^ 
been added. The patient's thirst may be allayed by lemonade or- 
cold tea, in small quantities; and only liquid food, such as milk,, 
should be given. Cases of dysentery, continuing more than 24; 
hours, should be attended by a physician. 

DYSPEPSIA. 

There is nothing like hot water for dyspepsia. The following 
item is from the Hartford Coitrant, which has proven in hundreds 
of cases to be very valuable. Use the hot water i hour before each 
meal, instead of only at breakfast. "A gentleman who is in busi 
ness in this city has cured himself of a chronic and ugly form of dys- 
pepsia in a very simple way.' He was given up to die ; but he 
41 



642 DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 

finally abandoned alike the doctors and the drugs, and resorted to 
a method of treatment which most doctors and most persons would 
laugh at as an ' old woman's remedy.' It was simply swallowing i 
teacup hot water before breakfast every morning. He took the 
water from the cook's tea-kettle, and so hot that he could only 
take it by the spoonful. For about 3 weeks this morning dose was 
repeated, the dyspepsia decreasing all the while. At the end of 
that time he could cat, he says, any breakfast or dinner that any 
well person could eat — had gained in weight, and has ever since 
been hearty and well. His weight is now between 30 and 40 
pounds greater than it was during the dyspepsia sufferings; and for 
several years he has had no trouble with his stomach — unless it 
was some temporary inconvenience due to a late supper or dining 
out, and in such a case a single trial of his ante-breakfast remedy 
was sure to set all things right. He obtained his idea from a Ger- 
man doctor, and in turn recommended it to others— and in every 
case, according to this gentleman's account, a cure was effected." 

EARACHE. 

Place a little cotton-wool, saturated with chloroform, in a new 
clay pipe; insert the stem of the pipe in the patient's ear, close 
the lips over the bowl of the pipe, and blow gently. The evapor- 
ating chloroform will relieve the pain immediately. Warm poul- 
tices, or a drop of warm olive oil, mixed with a like amount of 
laudanum, dropped into the ear, may also be used. If there is a 
discharge, syringe the ear very gently with tepid water, adding to 
each cup i teaspoon solution carbolic acid. 

grandmother's EYE-WASH. 

Take 3 eggs, and break them into i quart cold rain-water; stir 
until thoroughly mixed ; bring to a boil on a slow fire, stirring 
often ; add ^ ounce sulphate of zinc (white vitriol) ; continue the 
boiling for 2 minutes, then set it off ; take the curd that settles at 
the bottom of this and apply to the eye at night with a bandage ; 
strain the liquid through a cloth, and use for bathing the eyes 
occasionally. This is the best eye-water ever made for man or beast. 



DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 643 



REMEDY FOR COLD FEET. 

Every night on going to bed, dip the feet in shallow, cold water, 
2 or 3 times quickly, then rub briskly with a coarse towel till dry; 
then take hold of each end of the towel and draw it back and forth 
through the hollow of the foot until a glow is excited. 

FROZEN FEET. 

Put enough boiling water in a pail to cover your feet ; in this 
dissolve all the powdered alum possible ; as soon as you can bear it 
place your feet in the water and soak them for 2 hours, adding hot 
water and alum as the water in the pail cools, keeping it as hot as 
it can be borne. 

FELON. 

Paint the spot with compound tincture of iodine, or put directly 
over it a Spanish-fly blister about the size of your thumb nail, let- 
ting it remain for 6 hours, at expiration of which time the felon 
may be seen under the surface of the bhster, and can be taken out 
with the point of a needle. A felon may be made to " come to a 
head" by repeatedly soaking the finger in hot water, and poulticing. 

Take common rock salt, as used for salting down pork or beef; 
dry in an oven, then pound it fine and mix with spirits of turpen- 
tine in equal parts; put it in a rag and wrap it around the parts 
affected ; as it gets dry put on more, and in 24 hours you are cured. 
The felon will be dead. 

GOOD SAMARITAN — IMPROVED. 

Take 2 quarts 98 per cent alcohol, and add to it the following 
articles: One ounce each of oils sassafras, hemlock, spirits turpen- 
tine, tinctures cayenne, catechu, guaicaci, and laudanum, 4 ounces 
tincture myrrh, 2 ounces oil origanum, j4 ounce oil wintergreen, 1 
ounces gum camphor, and i^ ounces chloroform. For internal 
and external use. 

HEADACHE. 

Pour a few drops of ether on ^ ounce gum camphor, and pul- 
verize ; add to this an equal quantity of carbonate of ammonia 



644 DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 

pulverized ; add 20 drops peppermint ; mix and put in an open- 
mouthed bottle, and cork. 

Dr. Stephen MacKcnzie, lecturer on medicine at- the London 
Hospital, recommends Indian hemp in doses of yi grain night and 
morning as a remedy for persistent headache. 

NERVOUS HEADACHE. 

Ten grains salicylate of soda every 3 hours for an adult, fol- 
lowed next day in 5 to 8-grain doses ; if of long standing, continue I 
or 2 doses for a few days longer; taken by dissolving in water. 

CURE FOR BILIOUS HEADACHE AND RHEUMATISM. 

One-half ounce Turkey rhubarb, i ounce carbonate of magnesia; 
mix intimately; keep well corked in glass bottle. Dose, i teaspoon, 
in milk and sugar, the first thing in the morning; repeat till cured. 

HICCOUGH, FRENCH REMEDY. 

According to the Lyons (France) Mcdicale, Dr. Grellety says : 
" I have observed that hiccoughs in children are immediately stop- 
ped by giving them a lump of sugar saturated with table vinegar. 
The same remedy was tried on adults with similarly instantaneous 
success." 

Cure for by Pressure. — The latest discovery for the cure of hic- 
coughs consists in placing the hand flat upon the pit of the 
stomach, immediately below the cartilage forming the end of the 
breast-bone, and making firm pressure. Should this prove unsuc- 
cessful, place a firm roll of muslin on the same place, securing it by 
a bandage bound tightly around the body. In an hour this may 
be removed, and it will be found that the hiccough has entirely dis- 
appeared. 

ITCH. 

The best specifie is an ointment composed of 2 ounces flowers of 
sulphur, 2 drachms carbonate of potash, 4 ounces lard ; to be well 
rubbed in, night and morning. 



DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 645 

LINIMENT. 

The following is an excellent liniment for rheumatism and for 
the removal of local pains: Three ounces white castile soap, 1% 
ounces gum camphor, 3 drachms oil rosemary, i pint alcohol, ^ 
ounce laudanum. Cut the soap into shavings and add to it the 
alcohol. After the soap is dissolved, add the other ingredients ; 
the liniment is then ready for use. 

2nd. A remarkable preparation for allaying pain consists of 
I ounce alcohol, 15 grains menthol and 15 great grains tincture 
myrrh. This article is valuable in every shop where tools are used 
and accidents liable to happen. It deadens the nerves and is used 
by "Painless Dentists" in extracting teeth. 

3rd. For hot and painful swellings, use the following lotion: 
One teaspoon sugar of lead, i pint water, 2 ounces alcohol. Mix, 
and lay cloths saturated with the lotion over the affected parts. 

4th. Beat up the yolk of i Qgg, with i tablespoon turpentine* 
and I tablespoon vinegar. Apply for rheumatism or lameness. 

INFLAMMATION OF LUNGS (PNEUMONIA.) 

When, in cases of pneumonia, a physician cannot be called 
immediately, the patient should be covered warmly in bed, and be 
given, every ]4 hour, i teaspoon of a mixture composed of 15 drops 
tincture of aconite, 60 drops sweet spirits of nitre and 8 tablespoons 
water. Give, also, a bowl of hot ginger tea, and put bags of hot 
sand or bran to the feet, to aid in promoting free perspiration. 
Apply a large mustard paste to the chest, and, afterward, broad 
strips of old, soft cotton cloth, saturated with sweet oil and covered 
with cotton wadding. 

MEASLES. 

Keep the patient in a dimly-lighted, moderately warm and well- 
ventilated room. Prepare a mixture of 2 ounces saffron and i 
ounce Virginia snake root, added to i quart boiling water, and 
steep I hour ; to be drank hot. The bowels should be regulated 
with a mild cathartic. Use a great deal of olive oil as a local appli- 
cation. Sponging the body with tepid water, to which has been 



646 DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 

added a little saleratus, promotes the patient's comfort. When the 
eruption disappears suddenly, administer a warm bath containing a 
little mustard, and give copious draughts of the hot mixture above 
mentioned; also, send for a physician. If the pulse sinks rapidly, 
and there is great prostration, stimulate with brandy and water. 
Be careful to protect the patient against sudden changes in tem- 
perature. 

MUMPS. 

This disease is contagious, but, in ordinary cases, requires little 
or no treatment. The diet should be of a laxative nature, and 
consist largely of fruits and vegetables. The patient should remain 
in the house, keep the face and neck warm, and carefully avoid 
exposure to cold and damp, as the affection is frequently, in conse- 
quence of imprudence, transferred to more vital parts. If the pain 
is severe, and the swelling extends to other glands, apply hot poul- 
tices. Perspiration must also be induced by drinking freely of sage 
or spearmint tea. 

MILK IN SICKNESS. 

For Diarrhea. — One pint every 4 hours will check the most vio- 
lent diarrhea, stomach-ache, incipient cholera and dysentery. The 
milk should never be boiled, but only heated sufficient to be agree- 
ably warm, not too hot to drink. Milk which has been boiled is 
unfit for use. It has never failed in curing in from 6 to 12 hours. 
It was also given to a dying man who had been subject to dysen- 
tery 8 months, latterly accompanied by one continual diarrhea, and 
it acted on him like a charm. In 2 days his diarrhea Avas gone, in 
3 weeks he became a hale, fat man, and now nothing that may here- 
after occur will ever shake his faith in hot milk. 

For Wasting Diseases. — People suffering from disease require 
food quite as much as those in health, and much more in certain 
diseases, where there is rapid waste of the system. Frequently all 
ordinary food is rejected by the stomach, and even loathed by the 
patient; but nature, even in all disease, is beneficent, and has 
furnished a food that is beneficial — in some, directly curative. 
Such a food is milk. Milk nourishes in fever, promotes sleep, wards 



DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 647 

off delirium, soothes the intestines, and in fine is the sine qua non 
(an indispensable — just the thing) in typhoid fever. 

For Scarlet Fever. — Give all the milk the patient will take, even 
during the period of greatest fever; it keeps up the strength of the 
patient, acts well upon the stomach, and is in every way a blessed 
thing in this sickness. Parents, remember it, and do not fear to 
give it if your dear ones are afflicted with this disease. — Medical 
Reports, 

SORE MOUTH, CANKER. 

This is common to infants and young children. When the 
trouble is confined to the mouth, a wash composed of borax and 
honey, or of 20 grains each borax and sugar to 2 ounces water, 
should be used several times a day. When the throat is affected, 
raspberry-leaf tea or an infusion of gold thread will be beneficial. 
Burn a corn cob and apply the ashes 2 or 3 times a day. 

NEURALGIA. 

Macerate the leaves of the common field thistle and use as a 
poultice on the parts affected, while a small quantity of the same 
is boiled down to the proportion of i quart to i pint, and a small 
wineglass of the decoction drank before each meal. A friend says 
he has never known it to fail of giving relief, while in almost every 
case it has effected a cure. 

OINTMENT FOR NEURALGIA. 

Forty-five grains menthol, 15 grains cocaine, 10 grains chloral, 
5 grains vaseline ; apply to painful parts (see ^^ Liniment sT^ 

NEUTRALIZING CORDIAL. 

Two drachms fluid extract rhubarb, 2 drachms bicarbonate of 
soda, I drachm powdered cinnamon, i drachm golden seal, 2 ounces 
simple syrup, i^ ounces brandy or diluted alcohol, 5 drops essence 
of peppermint, 2 ounces hot water; dissolve the soda in the hot 
water, and add the cinnamon, golden seal, and brandy; let the 
mixture be kept warm for i hour; add to this liquid the rhubarb, 



648 DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 

syrup, and essence of peppermint, and the compasition is ready for 
use. Dose for an adult, i tablespoon every ^ hour, or as often as 
required; dose for an infant, from % to Yz teaspoon. A valuable 
remedy for cholera morbus, cholera infantum, and other disorders 
of the stomach and bowels, especially those which are peculiar to 
children when teething; it allays irritation, checks nausea and 
vomiting, and changes the contents of the bowels from a morbid to 
a healthy condition. 

HAMLIN'S WIZARD OIL. 

One-half ounce spirits of camphor, ^ ounce aqua ammonia, J^ 
ounce oil of sassafras, i drachm oil of cloves, 2 drachms chloroform, 
3 drachms spirits of turpentine, 3 drachms diluted alcohol. 

PERRY DAVIS' PAINKILLER. 

Some analysis recently made in the east, and published in the 
Druggists' Circular, gives the following as the articles composing 
the medicine named : 2 ounces spirits of camphor, i ounce tincture 
of capsicum, ^ ounce gum myrrh, ^ ounce gum guaiac, 3 ounces 
alcohol. 

PILES. 

When piles become painful, the patient should take a warm hip 
bath, and remain in it until the pain ceases, or, better yet, bathe 
the affected parts with hamamelis or extract witch hazel, diluted 
with water; it is a wonderful remedy. If the piles are bleeding, 
apply a salve of opium and nut-galls; if itching, i drop oil of cade 
will give relief ; linseed oil, applied to the piles, is said to be an 
effective remedy. 

POULTICES. 

A Bread and Milk Poultice. — Put i tablespoon crumbs of stale 
bread into i gill milk, and let the whole boil once; or, take stale 
bread-crumbs, pour over them boiling water and boil till soft, stir- 
ring well; take from the fire and stir gradually in a little glycerine 
and sweet oil, so as to render the poultice pliable when applied. 



DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 649 

Flaxseed Poultice. — For a flaxseed-meal poultice put as much 
meal as is requisite in a basin, make a hollow in the center of the 
meal, pour at once as much hot water into it as may be deemed 
necessary, and stir the whole till it has the consistency of thick 
porridge. 

A Hop Poultice. — Boil i handful dried hops in yi pint water 
until reduced to i gill, then stir into it enough Indian meal to 
thicken it. 

Mustard Poultice. — Into l gill boiling water stir i tablespoon 
Indian meal ; spread the paste thus made upon a cloth, and spread 
over the paste i teaspoon mustard flour. 

Mustard Poultice to Blister. — Make a thick paste of mustard 
and water, spread it on flannel, and cover its surface with fine 
muslin. A mustard plaster should remain on the patient only until 
the skin becomes red — generally about 15 minutes. 

Slippery-Elm Poultice. — Take ^ ounce slippery-elm bark, in 
powder, and hot water to form a poultice of the proper consistency. 
This poultice is valuable in all cases where a general soothing 
emollient is required. 

Yeast Poultice. — For sores and indolent ulcers. Take 5 ounces 
yeast and i pound flour, or in that proportion, add water at 
blood heat, so as to form a tolerably stiff dough ; set in a warm 
place, but not so as to scald, until it begins to ferment or to " rise," 
and apply like any poultice. 

WHAT TO DO IN CASES OF POISONING. 

In all cases of poisoning a physician should be summoned at 
once, and until he arrives the patient should be treated according 
to the directions given below, under the group in which the name 
of the poison supposed to have been taken is found. 

POISONS AND THEIR TREATMENT. 

Unknown. — Provoke repeated vomiting, give bland liquids; 
stimulate, if necessary. 

Acids (Sulphuric, Nitric, Muriatic, Oxalic). — Give an alkali, 



650 DISEASES AND HOxME REMEDIES. 

provoke vomiting, give bland fluids, secure rest ; stimulate, if 
necessary. 

Alkalies (Hartshorn, Soda, Potash, Lye). — Give an acid (vinegar), 
provoke vomiting, give bland liquids, secure rest ; stimulate, if 
necessary. 

Arsenic (Paris Green). — Provoke vomiting, give dialysed iron 
and salt (repeat several times), give dose castor oil, secure rest; 
stimulate, if necessary. 

Sugar of Lead. — 'Give epsom salts, provoke vomiting (repeat 
several times), give bland liquids, give dose castor oil. 

Corrosive Sublimate, Tartar Ejnetic. — Provoke vomiting, giv^ 
strong tea without milk (repeat several times), give raw eggs an4 
milk, give dose castor oil; stimulate, if necessary. 

PJiospJiorus. — Provoke vomiting, give 5-grain doses sulphate of 
copper ; give dose of magnesia, but no oil. 

Lunar Caustic (Nitrate of Silver). — Give strong salt and water, 
provoke vomiting (repeat many times.) 

Iodine. — Provoke vomiting, give starch and water, give bland 
fluids. 

Opium (Morphine, Laudanum, Paregoric, etc.). Chloral. — Pro- 
voke vomiting repeatedly ; give strong coffee, without milk ; keep 
up the breathing. 

StrycJinine. — Provoke vomiting once or twice, give a purgative, 
secure absolute quiet. 

Aconite. — Provoke vomiting, stimulate well. 

Jamestown Weed, Nightshade (Belladonna), Toadstools, Tobacco. — 
Provoke vomiting, stimulate well. 

To provoke vomiting, warm water may be used, with or without 
ground mustard, i tablespoon to i pint water, or ipecac — i teaspoon 
of the powder or i tablespoon of the syrup — and thrusting a finger 
down the throat. It is best to give large quantities, that is, i pint 
at a time, of warm water, whenever vomiting is to be excited. 

Bland liquids are milk, raw eggs, some sort of oil, gruel, etc. 

Stimulants are tea, coffee, whiskey, wine, etc., or hartshorn and 
water. Of this i teaspoon in i cup water will be enough for a dose. 
In making tea or coffee one must not wait to do it as for the table. 



DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 65 1 

but mix hot water and the leaves or grounds, squeeze them well, 
stir together, and give the whole — leaves, grounds, every'thing. 
At the same time some may be made regularly, if there are con- 
veniences for it. 

Alkaline antidotes are hartshorn and water, i tablespoon in 2 
cups water; soap and water, lime, whiting, soda, chalk, tooth 
powder, plaster, magnesia, whitewash, and even wood ashes. 

Acid antidotes are vinegar and lemon-juice. 

In giving an antidote never wait for it to dissolve ; just stir it 
up in any fluid at hand, except oil, and have it swallowed immedi- 
ately. 

IVY POISONING. 

1st. A miner and surveyor writes with regard to ivy poisoning 
as follows : " For many years I have suffered terribly from this 
cause, but remembering that all poisons are acids, and that alkalies 
neutralize acids, I bathed the poisoned member in a strong lye 
made from wood ashes, and obtained instant relief. Subsequently 
I found that the dry ashes alone, rubbed over the poisoned member, 
were equally effective. Since this discovery, I have had no further 
trouble, and having tried this simple remedy repeatedly on myself 
and on many others with like good results, I am now thoroughly 
convinced that wood ashes will, in every case, prove a sure and 
sovereign specific for all cases of ivy poisoning." 

2nd. Edwin S. Lind writes the Scientific American that he has 
found nothing like a poultice made from the bruised leaves of the 
Nightshade {Solatium Nigrum) and cream. He says it is safe, sure, 
speedy and effectual. 

SUMAC POISONING. 

Make a strong solution of alum water and bathe the affected 
parts freely a few times, and it will effect a cure. 

POISONING BY THE POISON OAK. 

J. B. Murfree, M. D., of Murfreesboro, Tenn., says he has 
found the black wash made of calomel and lime-water, i drachm 



652 DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 

calomel to i pint lime water, an invariable success for several 
years. — Medical Brief. 

POWDERS FOR CHILDREN. 

This excellent powder for flatulent infants may be employed 
with advantage whenever the child is in pain or griped: Drops 
grains oil of anise-seed and 2 of peppermint on ^ ounce lump sugar, 
and rubbing it in a mortar, with i drachm magnesia, to a fine 
powder. A small quantity of this may be given in a little water at 
any time, and always with benefit. 

RHEUMATISM. 

Acute attacks of rheumatism should be treated by painting the 
affected part with tincture of iodine. (See, also, ^^ Liniments.") 
When there is a chronic rheumatic tendency, and the blood seems 
to be loaded with morbid poison, take one of the following: 

Successful Alterative for RJieumatism. — Three ounces each of 
tinctures sarsaparilla and quassia, i ounce iodide potash, 20 grains 
quinine, i pint water. Put all into a quart bottle, and shake when 
taken. Dose, i tablespoon just before each meal. 

Or i^ drachms extract spotted hemlock, 5 drachms iodide potas- 
sium, y^ drachm oil winter-green, i ounce orange-flower water, 7 
ounces each of tincture Peruvian bark and extract sarsaparilla 
comp. Mix and take i tablespoon 3 times a day. 

RINGWORM. 

A very simple, yet effective, manner of curing ringworm is to 
place on the affected part, for a short time every night, a copper 
coin which has remained for some time in vinegar, and is still wet 
with the liquid. It is also well to bathe the ringworm with a solu- 
tion of 2 grains iodide of potash in i ounce water. 

RUNAROUND. 

At the first signs of a ringround, take I cup wood ashes, put in 
a pan with i quart cold water, put the pan on the stove, put your 



DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 653 

finger in the pan, keep it there until the water begins to boil, or as 
long as it can be borne. Repeat once or twice if necessary. 

SALT-RHEUM OR ECZEMA. 

This usually appears in the form of an eruption consisting of 
round pimples, about the size of a pin-head, filled with a colorless 
fluid and terminating in scurf. The eruption is attended with pain, 
heat, burning, itching and smarting sensations, and at times, a 
swelling of the part affected. When the blisters break, the water 
which oozes out irritates and inflames the skin. This becomes dry, 
red, rough and sometimes covered with a thick crust. Wash the 
parts thoroughly with pure castile soap, and dry very carefully ; 
then apply borax and vaseline ointment. To cure this disease radi- 
cally a powerful blood purifier is needed. 

SALVES. 

Grandmother s Salve for Everything. — One pound rosin and 34^ 
cup mutton tallow after it is hard, half as much beeswax, and y^ 
ounce camphor gum ; put all into an old kettle, and let dissolve and 
just come to a boil, stirring with a stick; then take ^ pail warm 
water, just the chill off, pour it in and stir carefully until you can 
get your hands around it ; pull like candy until quite white and 
brittle; put a little grease on your hands to prevent sticking, and 
keep them wet. Wet the table, roll out the salve, and cut it with a 
knife. Keep it in a cool place. 

Green Salve or Ointment. — One ounce each of rosin and bees- 
wax, 4 ounces mutton tallow or lard, i drachm pulverized verdigris. 
Melt the 2 first together and stir in the verdigris, stirring till cold. 
Dress sores, ulcers or wounds, morning and evening, after cleaning 
them properly with castile soap. If there is any proud flesh, 
sprinkle on powdered blood-root or finely pulverized burned alum, 
then apply the salve. 

Simple Salve. — An excellent salve for bruises is the following: 
Take the leaves of catnip and bruise with salt pork in a mortar, or 
with a rolling-pin. If applied to flesh wounds and bruises of any 
kind it will at once allay the inflammation. 



654 DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 

SCARLET FEVER. 

In ordinary cases, the room should be kept cool, the bed-cover- 
ing light, and a tepid bath, containing a little saleratus, should be 
given every morning ; 20 or 30 drops sweet spirits nitre, in an equal 
quantity water, should be administered every 2 or 3 hours, with copi- 
ous draughts hot saffron or herb tea, to drive out the rash. Glycerine 
lotion, carbolated vaseline, or olive oil, applied to the skin, will allay 
the intense itching which accompanies this disease. For thirst, the 
patient may drink lemonade or cream of tartar water. When the 
throat is seriously affected — as in the malignant types of this dis- 
ease — treat as directed for diphtheria. In all cases of scarlet fever, 
attend to disinfection. A good method is to hang, in the room or 
hall, a large piece of muslin, to be kept moist by soaking it occa- 
sionally in a solution composed of 8 ounces sulphate zinc, 2 
ounces carbolic acid and 3 gallons water. The patient should not 
be allowed to go out of the house too soon after recovery, as 
almost every vital organ is left in a weakened condition and unable 
to withstand even slightly harmful influences. The patient is 
infectious until all scaling has ceased. (See "■Diphtheria^') 

Sulphur Cure for Scarlet Fever. — The eminent London, Eng., 
physician. Dr. Henry Pigeon, says: "Thoroughly anoint the patient 
twice daily with sulphur ointment ; give 5 to 10 grains sulphur in a 
little jam 3 times a day; burn sufficient sulphur twice daily, 
on coals on a shovel, to fill the room with the fumes, to be 
thoroughly inhaled by the patient. Having had a large experi- 
ence in scarlet fever, I feel some confidence in my own judgment, 
and I am of opinion that the very mildest cases I ever saw do not 
do half so well as bad cases do by the sulphur treatment, and, so 
far as I can judge, sulphur is as near a specific for scarlet fever as 
possible." 

SMALL-POX REMEDY. 

The most scientific school of medicine in the world (that of 
Paris) published this panacea for the small-pox. It is as unfailing 
as fate, and conquers in every instance. It is harmless when taken 
by a well person. It will also cure scarlet fever. Take i grain 



DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 655 

sulphate zinc, l grain fox glove, ^ teaspoon water ; when thor- 
oughly mixed, add 4 ounces water. Take i spoonful every hour, 
and either disease will disappear in 12 hours. For a child, smaller 
doses, according to age." 

STINGS. 

Kerosene as a remedy for bee stings ought to be widely known. 
It often relieves the pain at once and prevents swelling. It is espe- 
cially valuable because it is almost always on hand, ready for use. 
Ammonia is probably the surest remedy for bee and wasp stings, 
and all poisonous wounds made by insects. It is not always avail- 
able in time, however ; so it is well to be informed of the kerosene 
cure. 

When stung by a bee or wasp, make a paste of common earth 
and water, put on the place at once and cover with a cloth. 

SUMMER SICKNESS. 

For summer complaints, such as diarrhoea, dysentery, and pain 
in the stomach, a convenient remedy consists of equal parts tinc- 
ture rhubarb, essence of peppermint, and camphor ; the dose being 
from 10 to 20 drops in a wine-glass of sweetened water, at intervals 
of 15 minutes, until relief is obtained. (See ^^Cholera Infajitum.") 

SORE THROAT AND HOARSENESS. 

Use chlorate of potassa as a gargle, and induce perspiration 
with y^ teaspoon sweet spirits nitre, taken in 2 tablespoons water. 

Squeeze the juice of y^ lemon in a pint bowl, add 2 tablespoons 
loaf sugar, i teaspoon glycerine, and i tablespoon whiskey ; pour 
over this boiling hot water to nearly fill the bowl, and drink hot 
just before going to bed. 

Cut slices of salt pork or fat bacon ; simmer a few moments in 
hot vinegar, and apply to throat as hot as possible. When this is 
taken off, as the throat is relieved, put around a bandage of soft 
flannel. A gargle of equal parts of borax and alum, dissolved in 
water, is also excellent. To be used frequently. 

Steep I medium-sized red pepper in ^ pint water, strain and 



656 DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 

add }{, pint good vinegar, and I heaping teaspoon each of salt and 
pulverized alum, and gargle with it as often as needed. (See 

" Tonsilitis.") 

INGROWING TOE NAILS. 

Scrape with a piece of glass or a knife, the whole length of the 
middle of the nails, until they become tender. In this condition the 
edges of the nail are gradually withdrawn from the flesh, and the 
difficulty is removed. Toe nails should be cut straight across, or 
slightly concave. They should be merely rounded a little at the 
corners — never trimmed close. 

Dip a rag in a strong solution of tannic acid and water, and 
place between the nail and inflamed parts of the toe. This treat- 
ment persevered in, should bring relief. 

TONSILITIS OR QUINSY. 

Mucilaginous drinks, of slippery-elm bark or gum arable, sipped 
at frequent intervals, will promote free expectoration and soothe 
local irritation. In very severe cases, the patient should steam the 
throat with equal parts of wormwood, hops and catnip. Boil for 
an hour, in equal parts of vinegar and water ; then put the decoc- 
tion in a bowl or pitcher, over which place a tin funnel. Let the 
patient inhale, for 15 or 20 minutes, the steam which rises through 
the funnel. Repeat this treatment every 2 or 3 hours, until the 
urgent symptoms have subsided. 

Or, give salicylate of soda in lo-grain doses every 2 or 4 hours, 
and in ulcerated cases make a gargle with the same, using about 10 
grains to i ounce water. 

TOOTHACHE. 

Two drachms alum reduced to an impalpable powder, 7 drachms 
nitrous spirits of ether; mix and apply to the tooth. 

Equal quantities powdered alum and fine salt applied to the 
tooth will give speedy relief. 

For an ulcerating tooth, take a piece of old, thin muslin, about 
i^ inches wide and as long as desired, wet some ground flaxseed 



DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 657 

in cold water, place in the cloth, and fold and baste it together; 
place this upon the outside of the gum ; it will soothe the pain in 
a short time and draw the ulcer to that spot, where it can be easily 
lanced. 

The worst toothache, or neuralgia coming from the teeth, may- 
be speedily ended by the application of a bit of cotton, saturated in 
a solution of ammonia, to the defective tooth. Sometimes the 
late sufferer is prompted to momentary laughter by fhe application, 
but the pain will disappear. 

TYPHOID FEVER. 

In the treatment of this disease, good nursing is indispensable; 
the patient should have fresh air, and frequent spongings with tepid 
water, to which a little saleratus has been added ; the diet, in the 
first stages of this disease, should consist of corn-meal or flour 
gruel, barley or rice water, or corn-starch blanc mange ; in the 
latter stages, boiled rice, beef tea, oysters, or raw eggs and wine, 
may be given; in case of great prostration, administer i tablespoon 
wine-whey often enough to sustain the patient's strength ; wine- 
whey may be prepared by adding 2 wineglasses good sherry to i 
pint boiling milk; diarrhoea should be controlled with a little 
brandy or paregoric ; for costiveness give tepid water injections; 
patients convalescing from typhoid fever should partake of light 
nourishment, thereby avoiding the danger of a relapse. 

VOMITING. 

Check by giving aromatic drinks, such as ginger, cinnamon, or 
mint tea ; paregoric, brandy or some other stimulant, or small 
pieces of ice — to be swallowed whole — may also be given; a 
plaster, made of equal parts of corn-meal and mustard, or cloths 
wet in hot water, may be applied to the stomach ; the patient 
should be kept quiet ; a vomiting child may be relieved by laying 
upon its stomach a piece of flannel, wet with laudanum ; vomit- 
ing, caused by excesses in eating and drinking, by indigestion, 
or a foul stomach, usually ceases when the contents of the stomach 
have been expelled ; in cases of poisoning, vomiting should be 

42 



658 DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 

encouraged by administering frequent draughts of warm water 
(see " Emetics — Poisons y) 

WARTS. 

One drop oil of cassia applied to warts every night or morning 
will cause their disappearance, however large and dense they may 
be; touching them daily with acetic acid will answer the same 
purpose; warts can also be removed by small doses of sulphate of 
magnesia (epsom salts), taken internally, daily, for from i to 3 
weeks ; never use caustic potash or nitric acid. 

WHOOPING COUGH. 

Take i gill each of garlic, sweet oil and honey, }i ounce cam- 
phor; cook the garlic in the oil and strain and add the other ingre- 
dients. This will cure the worst case. 

WORMS. 

Those which cause the most trouble are the tape-worm, the 
stomach worm and the pin-worm. The tape-worm dwells in the 
small bowels, and robs the body of its nourishment, causing loss of 
flesh and a constant craving for food, which a voracious appetite is 
unable to satisfy. A drink, composed of pumpkin-seeds, well- 
bruised and steeped in water, is said to be the most efficacious 
remedy for tape-worm. The long, round, or stomach worm, exists 
in the regions of the stomach, causing a peculiar odor to the breath, 
nausea, vomiting, flatulence, grinding of the teeth, disturbed sleep, 
thirst and headache. They sometimes rise into the throats of 
children, and produce choking or strangling sensations. Pin-worms 
infest every part of the alimentary canal, but are principally found 
in the lower bowel, causing griping pain and intolerable itching in 
the nose and anus. 

The following preparation will be found useful : Half ounce each 
of pink root, senna leaves, manna, worm seed. Reduce the above to 
a coarse powder, and pour over it i pint boiling water sweetened 
with sugar. After steeping, add 2 tablespoons milk. For a child 
5 years old, give i wineglass of the mixture 3 or 4 times a day, on 



DISEASES AND HOME REMEDIES. 659 

an empty stomach. A dose of physic should also be taken to 
insure prompt evacuation. When stomach-worms rise into the 
throat, administer a little salt and water. Pin-worms, in the lower 
bowel, may be destroyed by an injection of salt and water. 

One of the simplest and best remedies to be given to children, if 
they are troubled with Avorms, is poplar bark. It can be bought at 
any drug store, and a little paper, costing 5 cents, will often pre- 
vent sickness, and possibly save a large doctor's bill. Take a little 
pinch of the bark, about as much as one would naturally take up on 
the point of a penknife, and give it before breakfast ; it has a clean, 
bitter taste, and there is no difficulty in getting a child to take it if 
you explain what it is for. 

TO MAKE A SAND-BAG. 
Get some clean, fine sand, dry it thoroughly in a kettle on the 
stove. Make a bag about 8 inches square of flannel, fill it with the 
dry sand, sewing the opening carefully together, and cover the bag 
with cotton or linen cloth. This will prevent the sand from sifting 
out, and will also enable you to heat the bag quickly by placing it 
in the oven, or even on top of the stove. After once using this no 
one will ever attempt to warm the hands and feet of a sick person 
with a bottle of hot water or a brick. The sand holds the heat a 
long time, and the bag can be tucked up to the back without hurt- 
ing one. It is a good plan to make 2 or 3 of these bags and keep 
them ready for use. Children with toothache can be put to sleep 
many a time with one. 

USE OF A RAW EGG. 
How often we hear women who do their own work say that by 
the time they have prepared a meal, and it is ready for the table 
they are too tired to eat. One way to mitigate this evil is to take, 
about half an hour before dinner, a raw egg, beat it until light, put 
in a little sugar, flavor it and drink it down. It will remove the 
faint, tired-out feeling, and will not spoil your appetite for dinner. 
Plenty of fresh air in the kitchen does a good deal to relieve this 
trouble, and you do not then take your dinner in " at the pores," as 
Dicken's old Joey declared he took in the wine. 



CHAPTKR XXXIV. 



RATS, MICE AND INSECTS. 



RATS AND MICE. 

Soak one or more newspapers, according to number of holes to 
be stopped, then dip into a strong solution of oxalic acid (made by- 
dissolving oxalic acid in water). While wet force the pulp into any 
crevice or hole made by mice or rats. Result, a disgusted retreat 
with sore feet and snouts on the part of the intruders. Prove it. 

To Drive Away Rats or Mice Alive. — If you choose to drive 
them away alive, take pulverized potash, and put quite plentifully 
into all their holes. If the potash is pulverized and left in the air, 
it becomes pasty, and can then be daubed on the boards or planks, 
where they come through into rooms. 

To Destroy or Drive Away Rats or Mice. — If arsenic is to be 
used, get 3^ or ^ ounce, and label poison, and keep it away from 
children. To use it, first spread some slices of bread lightly with 
butter ; then sprinkle on rather freely of the arsenic, and over this 
with a little sugar, and with a case-knife press the sugar and arsenic 
well into the butter, so they will not fall off. Now, cut the slices 
of bread into squares of ^ inch or so, and drop into the rat-holes, 
out of the way of children, chickens and other animals which you 
do not wish to kill. 

TO DESTROY INSECTS. 

To Destroy Ants. — Ants that frequent houses or gardens maybe 
destroyed by taking ^ pound flour of brimstone and 4 ounces potash ; 
set them in an iron or earthern pan over the fire until dissolved and 
united; afterward beat them to a powder, and infuse a little of this 
powder in water, and wherever you sprinkle it the ants will fly the 
place. The flour of sulphur is also good sprinkled where they fre- 
quent. 

660 



RATS, MICE AND INSECTS. 



66i 



Troublesome Ants. — A heavy chalk-mark laid a finger's distance 
from your sugar-box and all around (there must be no space not 
covered) will surely prevent ants from troubling. 

A Bug Trap. — Bore a block of wood full of gimlet holes, place 
under the mattress and from time to time remove and put in boil- 
ing water. This is an East India hospital plan and is death to the 



bugs. 




Cockroaches may be destroyed by pouring boiling water into 
thier haunts, or setting a mixture of arsenic, Indian meal and 
molasses where they are found. Chloride of lime and sweetened 
water will also poison them. 

Crickets. — Scalding, and sprinkling Scotch snuff about the haunts 
of these insects, are remedies for the annoyance caused by them. 



662 RATS, MICE AND INSECTS. 

To Banish Fleas. — The oil of pennyroyal will certainly drive 
them off ; but a cheaper method, where the herb flourishes, is to 
dip dogs and cats into a decoction of it once a week. Mow the 
herb and scatter it in the beds of the pigs once a month. Where 
the herb cannot be got, the oil may be procured. In this case, sat- 
urate strings with it and tie them around the necks of dogs and 
cats, pour a little on the back and about the ears of hogs, which 
you can do while they are feeding, without touching them. By 
repeating these applications every I2 or 15 days, the fleas will leave 
the animals. Strings saturated with the oil of pennyroyal, and tied 
around the neck and tail of horses, will drive off lice ; the strings 
should be saturated once a day. 

STICKY FLY-PAPER. 

Melt together i pound resin, and add 2 tablespoons linseed oil; 
while it is yet warm dip a spatula or broad knife into it and spread 
what adheres on a sheet of foolscap paper; the proportions will 
vary a little on account of difference in resin; about 2% table- 
spoons lard may be used if you cannot get the linseed oil. 

FLIES AND MOSQUITOES. 

Twenty drops carbolic acid evaporated from a hot shovel will 
go far to banish flies from a room, while a bit of camphor gum, the 
size of a walnut, held over a lamp till it is consumed is the sover- 
eignest thing on earth against the festive mosquito. 

To catch the few early flies, take % teaspoon black pepper, i 
teaspoon brown sugar and i of cream ; mix well together. Some 
persons prefer a standing saucer of this to the sight of fly-paper — 
but the latter is too useful to be despised, before the wire screens 
go in, or even after, to catch the few strays that nobody can 
account for. 

Mosquitoes. — Mr. Ivers W. Adams writes to Forest and Stream, 
that he tried a dozen prescriptions for repelling mosquitoes, flies, 
and similar pests, and found none of them effective until he came 
across the following, which is dead sure every time : Three ounces 
sweet oil, i ounce carbolic acid. Let it be thoroughly applied upon 



RATS, MICE AND INSECTS. 663 

hands, face, and all exposed parts (carefully avoiding the eyes) once 
every ^ hour, when flies are troublesome, or for the first 2 or 3 
days, until the skin is filled with it, and after this its application 
will be necessary only occasionally. 

MOTHS IN CARPETS. 

Take the carpet up and clean it ; look in the cracks, and if you 
discover signs of moths, wash the floor with benzine, and scatter 
red pepper on it before putting the carpet lining down. 

If you do not wish to take the carpet up, pull out the tacks, 
fold the carpet back, w^ash the floor in strong suds with i tablespoon 
borax dissolved in them; dash with insect powder, or lay with 
tobacco leaves along the edge, and retack; or, use turpentine in the 
proportion of 3 tablespoons to 3 quarts water; after the carpet 
has been well swept, go over each breadth carefully with a sponge 
dipped in the solution and wrung nearly dry ; change the water as 
often as it becomes dirty. 

MOTH PREVENTIVE POWDER. 

Mix together i ounce black pepper, i ounce camphor, i drachm 
turpentine, 2 ounces snuff, 4 ounces cedar sawdust. Splendid. 

THE BUFFALO MOTH. 

Of the vast number of remedies tried for exterminating that 
most troublesome pest, the Buffalo moth, the following is one of 
the latest claimed to be effective. Take strips of red or blue flan- 
nel (as these colors are particularly attractive to them), dip in 
liquid arsenic and lay around the edge of the carpets, or wherever 
the pests are troublesome. They will soon eat a desired amount 
and collapse to the entire satisfaction of the housewife, without the 
least injury to her carpets. It may be added that care should be 
exercised in the use of this remedy in a household where there are 
children. The strips might be safely hidden underneath the carpet. 

VALUABLE INSECTICIDES. 

Among the best insecticides is pyrethrum, commonly known as 
insect or fly powder, which does not require to be eaten, but kills 



664 RATS, MICE AND INSECTS. 

by coming in contact with the insects and is safely and easily 
applied in all cases where it may be useful, for it is quite harmless 
except to insect life. For flies, bed-bugs, cockroaches, moths and 
all kinds of insects, it is invaluable. For fowls that are troubled 
with vermin, dust it into the feathers. It is very useful in killing 
cabbage worms and the slugs and insect pests that infest rose and 

currant bushes. 

Kerosene emulsion may be made with i quart soft soap to 8 
quarts boiling water, well stirred together, when for safety the 
kettle should be taken away from the fire and i pint kerosene 
oil and i pint sour milk be added, and all well mixed up while 
hot by churning or using a small hand pump. This makes a quite 
useful wash for trees infested with borers and any kind of insects. 

Powdered white hellebore is also specially effective on currant 
worms and rose slugs. Unlike pyrethrum, it is poisonous, and care 
should be taken not to sprinkle it on fruits that are to be eaten. 

A strong solution of alum water is also valuable as an insecti- 
cide in places where it can be used, for moths in carpets or clothing, 
bed-bugs, cockroaches, ants, etc. 

There are many poisons that are effectual in killing house pests, 
but as they are also fatal to children we have avoided giving recipes 
of that character as far as possible. 




SOLICITUDE. 



CHAPXKR XXXV. 



CARE OF BIRDS AND AQUARIA. 



THE CANARY. 

There is no music in nature sweeter than the singing of those 
little angels of the trees, the birds. It gladdens the heart to hear 
their " wood-notes wild " ringing through those grand cathedrals, 
the woods, w^hose tall green pillars are reared by the wonder-work- 
ing hand of God. Their song seems to make the sunshine brighter; 
and we have often fancied we could see its golden rays darting and 
flashing, and keeping time to their warblings, and though we can- 
not bring their surroundings into our homes, yet the birds may 
come and not only contribute to our happiness with their joyous 
notes, but be made contented and happy in their mission of song. 

The following simple instructions in the care of canaries will be 
found useful to all lovers of the feathered songsters : 

CHOOSING THE BIRDS. 

Don't be particular as to color; brown or mottled birds often 
prove the best singers. Avoid birds with red eyes ; they are deli- 
cate and not easily kept in song. Tameness is not a sign of excel- 
lence ; a bird that is moderately shy and spry will be likely to turn 
out best. Look for melody and sweetness rather than shrill, loud 
tones, if the canary is intended for a private house, 

BATHS. 

Let the water be fresh daily. The bath-tub should be removed 
as soon as the the bird has bathed. If you have a wire cage with 
a bottom that hooks on, a good plan is to fill the bath-tub and set 
it on the floor, or on an old table ; then unhook the bottom of the 
cage, and place the cage with the bird in it over the bath-tub, and 
when the bottom is replaced the cage will be perfectly clean and dry. 

665 



666 



CARE OF BIRDS AND AQUARIA. 

CAGES. 

The wire bell-shaped cage is 
best for song birds. Brass is bet- 
ter than painted wire. In addi- 
tion to the bath-tub and seed- 
cup, the cage should have 2 or 
3 perches, of hard wood, made 
round and smooth. Keep the 
perches clean by frequent washings 
with soap and water, and never return 
to the cage until thoroughly dry. At 
least twice a week, the bottom of the 
cag-e must be taken off and washed, 
; and the bottom covered with fine 
sand and gravel. Be careful never to use 
salt-water sand ; avoid drafts of air, hot 
sun and chilly rooms, and if you would 
have your birds cared for attend to it 
yourself. 

FOOD AND WATER. 

Simple diet is better for song birds than 
dainties, like cake, sugar, and other "goodies." 
The staple food for canaries should be plain 
, white canary-seed, with which the drawer should 
be filled, and not with mixed seed, for in order 
to obtain the sort they like the best the birds 
l')fi will very soon scatter the contents of the seed 
vessel, and in 5 minutes waste as much food as 
ought to serve them a day. A very good mix- 
ture of seeds is made as follows: Lettuce, oat 
grits and small linseed each i part; small hemp 
seed ^ part ; mix and keep in a tin for use. A 
tablespoon of this mixture may be given to every 
3 or 4 birds twice or thrice a week — during the 




CARE OF BIRDS AND AQUARIA. 66/ 

breeding season it may be given every day ; put into a separate 
vessel, or throw it on the bottom of the cage. In summer 
the cage should be suppHed with green food, such as cabbage, 
turnip topj, chick-weed, plantain stems, celery, watercress, etc. In 
winter use a little sweet apple, and a trifle of boiled carrot or 
cauliflower, without salt. A cuttle-fish bone is useful to them 
for the lime it contains. Always see that the water cup is well 
filled. Birds frequently suffer intolerably from thirst after having 
scattered and wasted the water. 



BREEDING CANARIES. 

Canaries pair about the middle of March or April. Select a 
vigorous, handsome pair, and having first kept them in separate 
cages within sight of each other for a few days, put them in the 
cage. In case the hen forsakes her nest after having laid her full 
number of eggs and begun to sit on them, remove the nest and put 
in a fresh one and let her take a new start. Canaries usually lay 
from 4 to 6 eggs, and they sit for 13 days. While the bird is sit- 
ting she should have plenty of food ; and on the day the hatching 
is expected, put into the cage a little grated bread soaked in water 
and pressed dry, and part of a finely-chopped hard-boiled egg 
should also be put in the cage. These viands are for the young 
birds. They should be placed in the cage at night or early in the 
morning, and great care should be taken to change them often 
enough so that they will not get sour. Healthy young birds will 
look red, and their crops will be full. If they seem pale and 
emaciated, it is time to suspect vermin, and you should change the 
nest at once, smoothing out the new one before putting the infants 
into it by rolling a hot hen's egg about in it. When the young 
birds are a month old they may be taken from the parent cage to 
another near at hand and within sight. Their cage should never be 
without green food. Fresh hard-boiled eggs and grated bread, dip- 
ped in water and pressed, is the best food for them. Give them a 
chance to bathe daily ; sprinkle them gently with water from a 
brush if they refuse to get into the tub; and let them have as 



66S CARE OF BIRDS AND AQUARIA. 

much soft (not too hot) sunshine as possible. If possible, let 
them have some insects, ants' eggs, etc. 

The cause of most diseases is colds, which are occasioned by 
either hanging a bird in a draught of air, near a loose-fitting 
window, or keeping him in a very hot room through the day, and 
then in a cool one at night. This cold, if not cured at once, leads 
to asthma, and from that to a disease known as the gapes. The 
best cure for the cold is to feed, in addition to their regular seed, 
rape and canary, and perhaps millet, a paste made from i hard- 
boiled egg and l pulverized cracker, thoroughly mixed together, 
using no water in mixing, the egg supplying sufficient moisture. 
Sometimes a bird seems hoarse, and apparently has lost his voice. 
This is occasioned by over-singing. A little pure rock candy, not 
flavored, dissolved in the drinking water, and a quantity of red 
pepper put in the paste described above, will usually effect a cure. 
If, however, the cold is allowed to remain for several days without 
any attention or cure, it will pass rapidly from cold to asthma, and 
from that to gapes, which is best described by saying that the 
bird looks like a little puff-ball, with a constant panting, and his 
bill almost constantly opening and shutting, as if to catch his 
breath. His food should be the same as described above. Many 
bird fanciers have given small pieces of salt pork, cut about the 
size of seed, with a quantity of red pepper thereon, with beneficial 
effect ; also keep the bird warm, and give, with his rape and canary, 
ripe plantain if it can be had. Every morning he should have i 
small tablespoon warm bread and milk, and now and then a little 
bit of sponge cake soaked in sherry wine. 

Asthma, or hard breathing, when arising from an oppressed 
stomach, generally yields to plantain and rape-seed, moistened with 
a little water, as the sole food. 

BALDNESS. 
Wash the bird's head night and morning in salt and water, 
drying it with a soft clean cloth. Then rub in on the bald places 
a little lard or fresh butter; repeat these operations for i week; 
this will cure the disorder, and in the spring the feathers will again 
begin to appear. 



CARE OF BIRDS AND AQUARIA. 669 

EPILEPSY. 

This disease exhibits itself in sudden fits. The readiest method 
of treating is to syringe the bird well with water. Some persons 
have recourse to cutting the bird's toe-nail until it bleeds. 

MOULTING. 

Most birds shed their feathers in the months of September and 
October, and, though it is perfectly natural for them so to do, still 
the operation is accompanied with a slight disease. They should 
be fed on the soft paste before described, and kept in a comfortably 
warm place out of all draughts of air. Should a bird not shed his 
wing and tail feathers readily, it is well to pull them out, pulling, 
however, only one at a time. 

SORE FEET. 

This disease is usually occasioned by using a very small perch, 
and also by not using sufficient gravel for the bird to keep his 
feet clean. With larger perches and plenty of gravel, a bird will 
seldom have sore feet. Should he, however, be so troubled, the 
best remedy is to wash the feet in i gill warm water, to which has 
been added 10 drops tincture of arnica. 

THE MOCKING BIRD. 



The mocking bird is a general favorite, and deserves to be 
attentively cared for. He is particular, and should be fed and 
watered at the same time every day. His cage should be large, 
and kept very clean, with plenty of gravel. 

In the Southern States many young birds are taken from their 
nests and reared by bird-dealers. The food supplied to them con- 
sists of ^ boiled potatoes, ^ hard-boiled eggs. This food is 
mashed with a wooden masher. The birds are very fond of this 
food, and thrive wonderfully on it. It is easily digested and not as 
apt to produce diarrhoea as the biscuit soaked in milk, so much 
used in Germany. When the birds advance in age they may be 
fed with prepared mocking bird food (see "-Mocking Bird Food") 



6/0 CARE OF BIRDS AND AQUARIA. 

which can be procured from every respectable bird-dealer. For a 
change, mix some grated carrot with their usual food. From time 
to time it will be well to supply them with a little cayenne pepper, 
which will serve to clean their stomachs. 

A supply of insects should be gathered during the proper sea- 
son, such as flies, grasshoppers, spiders, etc., and put loosely in a 
paper bag, and hung up to dry ; and, when used in winter, they 
should have boiling water poured over them, which will soften 
them, and make them as palatable as if they were still alive. A 
grasshopper thus prepared is a Thanksgiving dinner to your bird. 
Zante currants^ the same as used for cake, washed clean, soaked 
over night, and wiped dry, also make a dainty morsel. 

Meal-worms give a bird a great deal of life, and, being the richest 
of food, should only be given occasionally, say 6 to lo worms in a 
month. Every owner of a soft-bill bird should raise a stock of 
meal-worms. The process is very simple, and consists in first taking 
an old box or jar, and placing therein a quantity of bran or meal, — 
in fact, any farinaceous meal, — a few biscuit or part of a loaf of 
bread, a few pieces of leather from an old, worn-out boot or shoe, 
and some woolen rags; place therein a few meal-worms, — say 50, 
— and then cover the opening tightly with a thick cloth. If this 
cloth is moistened with water occasionally, they will breed faster; 
and, if not disturbed, at the expiration of from 4 to 6 months, you 
will have thousands. 

Mocking birds have diseases. Should your bird's feathers stand 
loosely all over, and he still seem healthful, give him cooling food 
only. Should your bird be dumpish and stupid, a few spiders will 
usually cure him. Should he refuse to eat, examine his tongue, 
and you probably will find on it a horny scale; this must be 
removed with great care, as, if allowed to remain, your bird will 
surely die. To remove this scale, hold the bird on his back firmly 
with one hand, and, with the finger-nail of the other hand, gently 
peel this scale from the tongue. Carefully watch the bird's drop- 
pings, and immediately apply the cure for illness. 

Diarrhoea is cured by a very rusty nail placed in his drinking- 
cup, and the reverse by insect food, or water with a few ants' eggs 



CARE OF BIRDS AND AQUARIA. 671 

soaked in it. Blindness is not to be cured ; and the bird thus 
attacked will shortly die, its spirit being broken by the illness. 

During the month of May, sometimes earlier, all birds have 
what is called the mating fever. They grow melancholy, allow their 
feathers to grow rough, cease to " plume themselves " before retir- 
mg, waste away, and die. All lovers of birds must have observed 
that a bird never goes to sleep without arranging, just before dark, 
every feather. The uniformity and tediousness of a bird's life, con- 
fined in a cage, that was not bred in one, is the cause of this 
mating-fever. In many instances they forget their inclination for 
freedom and a mate, by simply changing the cage, and hanging near 
a window, where their time will be taken up in watching new sur- 
roundings. 

Mocking bird lice are a great annoyance to a bird, and should 
be gotten rid of. This is best done by placing the bird in another 
perfectly clean cage ; then steep some fine-cut chewing tobacco in 
water, and, with a very weak solution, wash the bird very thor- 
oughly, particularly under the wings ; then place a white cloth or 
towel on top of the cage, and they will crawl up, and in a few days 
you will be rid of them. Clean your cage very thoroughly before 
you replace your bird therein ; and, with proper attention to clean- 
liness, you will not again be troubled with them. 

Experience shows that nine-tenths of the ailments of birds are 
caused by improper feeding. Bits of sugar, candy, daily green food, 
grapes, meat from the table, — all are bad for any bird. Birds need 
plain food, regularly given. A bath should be given the mocking 
bird daily ; and the vessel should be removed from the cage when 
the bird has bathed. You can soon teach any bird to bathe 
directly when you give him his bath, if you give it to him at the 
same hour each day. If irregular yourself, the bird will contract the 
same habit. 

These remarks on the mockingbird will also apply to the thrush, 
starling, lark, nightingale, robin, blackcap, and, in fact, all the 
family of soft-bill birds. In doctoring your sick bird, ascertain as 
nearly as possible what his complaint is, and apply the remedy ; if 
it does not succeed, try another. Birds have been known to be at 



6/2 CARE OF BIRDS AND AQUARIA. 

the point of death with costiveness, when a small spider has been 
forced down their throats, and a large knitting-needle, dipped into 
oil, inserted into the passage as an injection, and the bird caused to 
fly a few feet, when immediate relief followed, and in a few hours 
the bird was again in song. 

THE PARROT. 



The parrot possesses a more enduring constitution than any 
other cage-bird. They are, however, very sensitive to draught and 
cold. Great care must be taken to keep them in a warm and com- 
fortable room. Keep them out of doors as much as possible during 
the summer time, and in the winter give them the benefit of all 
the sunshine possible. It is expedient to expose them in warm 
weather to a summer shower; they should, however, be immedi- 
ately afterwards removed to a warm room, in which there is no 
draught. 

Their perches should never consist of metal. They are no 
doubt handsome, but have the double disadvantage of conducing 
heat too easily and of being too smooth. The birds are liable to 
contract from them rheumatism and other diseases of the feet. 

To keep parrots in health cleanliness is a prerequisite ; then 
plenty of gravel to aid digestion ; his food should be plain, con- 
sisting of stale bread and crackers, or cold boiled potatoes, also 
green corn, raw onions, peanuts, cracked corn, padda, hemp and 
canary-seed; feed no greasy food from the table, or sugar, candy, 
cake, etc.; a piece of apple, or other "green stuff," once a week, 
will be found beneficial. 

They drink very little, and can abstain from fluids for a week. 
They are fond of coffee, either plain, or with cream and sugar. 

Diseases of parrots are very few. Those recently landed are, 
at times, attacked with diarrhoea. From one so af^icted, all green 
food should be taken away, and he be fed boiled milk, thickened 
with Graham flour, and a little red pepper. If this does not afford 
relief in a few hours, then give stale bread soaked in warm sherry 
wine, with a little burnt sugar in it. 

These remedies have failed when a parrot is moulting, and 



CARE OF BIRDS AND AQUARIA. 673 

peppers and spices have been given. If none have the desired 
effect, give laudanum or paregoric. If the latter, 5 drops in i tea- 
spoon milk, poured down the bird's throat, and repeated every yi 
hour until relieved. Feed a little plain food, and keep the bird in 
a shawl or piece of blanket, in a warm place, until restored. 

A frequent inquiry at bird stores is, " What makes my parrot 
pull his feathers out?" The reply is, " You feed your bird too 
highly." The parrot, like many of the human family, is afflicted 
wath a skin disease, and rich food drives this disease to the surface, 
causing eruption, and an itching sensation, which the parrot relieves 
by pulling out his feathers. If a piece of wood is placed in the 
cage, the bird will spend his leisure in gnawing, and forget the itch- 
ing sensation. 

Parrots addicted to this habit should be fed on carrots and 
roasted peanuts ; both are cooling foods, free from grease. Shower 
with cold water several times per day, letting the w^ater fall in a 
spray upon the bird. 

Sore feet are occasioned by a dirty cage. Clean it, and put in 
plenty of sand ; then wash the feet in lukewarm water, tinctured 
with arnica. 

The ailments of parrots, and the remedies, apply to the dwarf 
parrot, or paroquets, but with care the bird will not have these, 
complaints. 

GERMAN BIRD-FOOD. 

One pound blanched almonds, 2 pounds pea-meal, 3 ounces 
butter, a few grains saffron, enough honey to make into a thick 
paste ; granulate by pressing through a colander ; some add the 
yolks of 2 eggs. 

MOCKING-BIRD FOOD. 

Two parts corn-meal, 2 of pea-meal, and i of moss-meal ; add a 
little melted lard that is not salted, but not enough to make it too 
greasy, and sweeten with molasses; fry in a frying-pan ^A, hour, 
stirring constantly to keep it from burning; this makes it keep 
well ; put in a covered jar. 

43 



674 



CARE OF BIRDS AND AQUARIA. 

THE AQUARIUM. 



An Aquarium is a vessel containing water, live aquatic plants 
and fishes, in such proportion as to be mutually supporting without 




the addition of much food, and with few changes of water. The 
plants contained in it should be sufficiently numerous to liberate 



CARE OF BIRDS AND AQUARIA. 675 

or throw off enough oxygen to furnish the living animals with life- 
sustaining material, enough fish and other animals to consume that 
oxygen and restore a sufificiency of carbon for the sustenance of 
the plants. This is the fundamental principle of nature, both of 
animal and vegetable life, the animal portion being sustained by the 
oxygen generated by vegetation, and the vegetable part by carbon 
exhaled by the animal. Consequently, if too much animal life be 
placed in the tank, the want of sufificient oxygen is soon experienced 
by its finny inhabitants, causing them to sicken and die. Should 
there be too much vegetation, the water becomes overcharged with 
oxygen, vitiating the animal system with its enervating power, so 
that the same fatal result necessarily follows. In the Aquarium 
care must be taken lest too much of either be taken, as in either 
case the life of the fish will be endangered. It is a diflficult matter 
to instruct a beginner as to the quantities of each which he must 
take. A short experience will, however, sufficiently teach the 
quantity needed, to those interested in the matter. 

FISH-GLOBES AND FISH. 

Should you have a fish-globe without gravel or aquatic plants, 
the water must be changed daily, and at stated intervals. If the 
globe be not very small, and the temperature moderate, it will 
sufifice to change the water every second day. The following rules 
should be observed : 

Let the water flow for some time from the hydrant. Place your 
globe with fishes under the hydrant, and let it run for 15 or 30 
minutes. The interior of the globe may, in the mean time, be 
cleaned with a sponge or brush. The fish should not be removed, 
as their removal is detrimental to their well-being. 

The following rules should be observed in keeping fish-globes or 
aquaria : 

Place fish-globes and aquaria so that they can have an abundance 
of light, air, and sun. Be careful to keep them in a cool place. 

Globes, as well as aquaria, should never contain more than four- 
fifths water, as otherwise the fishes might jump out and get hurt, 



6y6 CARE OF BIRDS AND AQUARIA. 

while lizards, snails, and other animals, would have a great oppor- 
tunity of creeping out and being lost. Owing to the neglect of 
this precaution many have been caused to wonder at the loss of 
their pets. Fishes, like every other living creature require food. 
If not kept in a self-sustaining aquarium or globe, food must be 
supplied. I would advise a supply of fish-food once or twice each 
week. This food can be had in every respectable bird and fish 
store. In the case of such fresh-water fish as Sun-fish, Cat-fish, 
Eels, Turtles, etc., worms are a useful food, and if worms cannot 
be had, raw meat will be a good substitute. 

Beef, when supplied, should be hung on a string, so that the fish 
can reach it and taTce as much as they please. Should the fishes 
decline eating fish-food for 3 or 4 hours, it should be removed, as, 
becoming soft, it muddies the water and injures the health of the 
fish. In winter time the fishes need but little food. Bread, crack- 
ers, cakes, and other dainties, are not only useless but injurious, 
and should be avoided. Globes, as well as aquaria, require air 
and sunshine. It is well, nevertheless, to protect them from the 
rays of the sun when they are extremely hot. This can be done 
by covering them with a cloth. If the atmosphere or sun has 
warmed the water in the globes or aquaria, it will be well to allow 
it to cool before changing it. It is a bad practice to use ice for the 
purpose of cooling the water. It is advantageous to place aquatic 
plants and gravel in the globes in which we keep Gold-fishes. The 
plants are often devoured by the fishes. This alone proves that 
they need food. The pebbles are useful as retaining the excrement 
of the fishes and preventing them from mixing with the water. In 
globes the plant should be allowed to float ; but in large aquaria 
the plants should be fastened by their roots to a stone. The 
larger the globe the more plants and pebbles should be used. 
Should the water be changed daily, as prescribed above, the plants 
will not grow so well as if it were not changed so frequently. The 
water should not, in this case, be changed while it remains clear, 
and the fish do not come to the surface. Fish are often killed by 
not changing the water at the proper time, nor as above described. 
In aquaria the water need not be changed unless it becomes slimy^ 



CARE OF BIRDS AND AQUARIA. 677 

or poisoned by dead fish, or putrid or decayed plants or food. 
Shells are often injurious in aquaria, as the water is liable to become 
impregnated with the salt and lime contained in them. Shells 
should be allowed to remain in water for some weeks before being 
used. Turtles should be frequently fed on raw beef ; in summer 
time flies will sufifice. 

When we keep Frogs, Turtles, Lizards and Snails in aquaria, we 
should supply floating islands, so that they may, from time to time, 
be enabled to rest on the surface. Rock-work will improve the 
appearance of aquaria and globes. 

The following animals are best adapted to fresh water aquaria: 
Gold-fish, Silver-fish, Sun- and Rock Sun-fish, Cat-fish, Stone or 
Rock-fish, Striped Bass, Shining-dace or Shiner, Stickle-back, Eels; 
also small Water Turtle, Lobster, Frogs, Newts or Lizards, Tad- 
poles, Mussels (Fresh-water Clam) and Beetles. 



CHAPTER XXXVI. 



FLOWER CULTURE. 



HOUSE PLANTS. 

A window with a south situation has the best advantage, and 
the next best is a west or east window ; a northern window is use- 
ful chiefly for ferns, colens, some fuchsias, and to winter shade- 
loving plants. 

No plant can be expected to flourish in a dark room. If you 
want fine plants, make up your mind at the start that you will give 
them all the light possible. The carpet may fade, but the plants 
will flourish, and their beauty will be sure to draw the attention of 
your visitors, so that the faded carpet on the floor will not be 
noticed. Plenty of sunshine will be of benefit to you as well as to 
the plants. Some kinds require less direct light than others, and 
these can be given places in the rear of those which demand strong 
sunshine. 

We must provide something nutritious for the plant to grow in, 
if we expect it to do well. The best soil is made up of good 
garden soil, turfy matter scraped from the bottom of grass sods, 
with the fine roots of the grass left in it, some well-rotted manure, 
and sand enough added to equal parts of the above to make it 
light and porous. The grass roots will make it spongy, and with 
sponginess, porosity, and substantial nutriment thus combined, we 
have a soil in which almost any plant adapted to house-culture will 
be pretty sure to do well. 

A soil like this never retains too much moisture, if good drain- 
age be given, and this should never be neglected ; if larger than 
4-inch pots be, used put at least i inch broken brick or crockery 
into every pot before fifling it with soil ; this allows the surplus 
water — that which the soil does not retain — to drain off. If drain« 
age is not provided, the hole in the bottom often gets stopped 
up, the ground gets sour and the roots diseased. 

678 



FLOWER CULTURE. 



679 



In western windows may be grown such plants as fuchsias, cacti, 
wax-plant, calla, geraniums, heliotrope, Chinese primrose, peri- 
winkle, pansies, tulip, hyacinth, lihum, rose-geranium, pinks, Ger- 
man ivy, ameranthus, etc. 

From a southern to an eastern exposure may be grown, monthly 
roses, iris, calla, oxalis rosea, hyacinths, cyclamens, azalea, ciner- 
aria, auratum, daphne, Chinese primrose, heliotrope, jessamine, etc., 
but some of those plants will flourish and bloom in any of those 
exposures. Moisture is one of the most essential elements in house 




culture ; plants can be kept moist by setting vessels containing 
steaming soap-suds near them, 2 or 3 times a week, and is very 
elBcacious in destroying parasites. 

With all these and many more to select from, the window and 
its surroundings may be made very effective. A window extending- 
from floor to ceiling is well adapted for this style of gardening, 
and should be filled with plants growing in boxes or pots and set 
on high brackets on each side of the casement; if the window has a 
sliding screen of stained glass in it the effect will be so much better. 
The climbers may be lophospermum, Maderia vine, Alpine wood- 
bine, and all or any kind of ivies, while smilax, vincas and arbutus 



680 FLOWER CULTURE. 

droop and trail. Bright colored flowers may be scattered around 
in graceful Wedgewood jardi?iieres forming a lovely contrast with 
the green background. Small brackets holding pots of carnations, 
bouvardias and heliotropes may be placed among the vines in the 
vi^indow. Hanging-baskets and wall-pockets may also find a place 
there with good effect. 

Wall-pockets are liked by some better than hanging-baskets. 
Cut a thin board in the shape of a shield to form the back. Bore 
a hole in the center near the top to suspend it from a nail, then 
bore small holes all round the edge about ^4 an inch apart. The 
pocket is made with ordinary brass or white wire, which is passed 
through the holes from side to side and carefully fastened at each 
end. The same process is repeated from top to bottom of the 
shield and the wires fastened together. The receptacle is then 
lined with mosses and filled wath wood earth. Arbutus, partridge 
vine, wintergreen, etc., mingled with ferns, will all take kindly to 
these novel quarters if kept constantly moist. 

Almost anything may be converted into a hanging-basket. 
Line it with moss with a little soil attached, and place in the center 
some showy plant of upright habit, fill up the surrounding space 
with rich woods and old hot-bed soil, fill in with plants of a climb- 
ing or trailing habit, when the center plant fades it may be replaced 
by a fresh one. In filling a basket, select plants of similar habits, 
those of like shape and moisture — fuchsia, lobelia, geraniums, wax 
plants, vinca, and wild and cultivated ferns. For hanging-baskets 
nothing can compare with the sedum seboldii, oxalis, creeping 
Charlie, etc. Very handsome hanging-baskets are made from glass 
dishes set in silk or satin bags decorated with fancy pictures, or else 
embroidered ; they are hung by three silken cords, place at equal 
distances in order to balance the dish. Ivies and ferns look pretty 
in this arrangement, or a sweet potato, with its pretty foliage and 
quickly climbing habit, grows nicely in it. 

Ferns and ivy mingled will fill a hanging-basket very prettily, 
but the ivy for this purpose should be the small leaved kind, which 
sends out graceful, compact sprays to twine around the wires by 
which the basket is suspended, and to droop over the edges. 



FLOWER CULTURE. 68 1 



BULBS FOR WINTER BLOOMING. 



Many persons seem to think that all that it is necessary to do 
to bring bulbs into bloom in the house in winter, is to pot the 
bulb, put it in the window, and set it to growing at once. They 
do this, a growth of few and feeble leaves takes place, and then the 
bulb dries up, and that is all there is to it, and they wonder why 
they didn't get any flowers, and in 9 cases out of 10 blame the 
florist for sending them worthless bulbs. In every such case the 
fault is their own. 

It is useless to expect good flowers from any bulb potted and 
started into growth in a warm, light room. The action of light 
and warmth starts the top into growth at the same time that roots 
are forming in the soil. There is nothing to support top-growth. 
In order to have a good development of foliage and flowers, the 
roots must be formed before any growth of top is encouraged. 

When you pot your bulbs, whether in September or later, be 
sure to put them away at once, after planting them, in a cool and 
dark place. It does not very much matter whether it is a celler, or 
on the side of some building out of doors, where they can be 
covered up and light excluded. The essential points are darkness 
and not too much warmth. When this plan is followed you can 
raise good flowers from them, but when you attempt to force a 
growth of roots and top at the same time, you exhaust the plant at 
an early stage of its unnatural growth, and as a natural consequence 
you get no flowers. 

If a succession is desired, pot at intervals, and bring up about a 
month or 6 weeks before you want them to come into bloom. But 
be sure to give them at least 6 weeks in the cellar, or wherever you 
put them after potting, to form their roots in. 

When they are brought up, be careful to not give too high a 
temperature at first. 

Hyacinths grown in pots often have a tendency to develop short 
stems. To remedy this defect, it is best to put a pot over the top 
when the flower-stalk appears, for a few days. The inverted pot 
keeps out most of the light, and the stalk grows more rapidly, and 



682 FLOWER CULTURE. 

lengthens out sufficiently to allow the flowers that come later to 
display themselves effectively. 

After they have bloomed, plant out the tulips and hyacinths. 
They will often recover after a season or two in the open ground, 
and give tolerably good crops of flowers there. But never use 
them a second time for house culture. Bulbs of Narcissus and 
Bermuda lily throw away. Freesia, Allium Neapolitan Tritilea can 
be taken from their pots after completing their growth — this can 
be told by the dying of the leaves — and wrapped in paper and kept 
dry through the summer, and re-potted again in fall. But it is 
always safer to buy fresh bulbs in all cases. 

For potting bulbs use a compost made up of loam, rich, well- 
rotted manure and a good deal of sharp sand. Water when you 
plant them, and as required thereafter until they are brought up. 
Examine them occasionally ; and if the surface of the soil looks 
dry, give more water, but only enough to keep the soil moist all 
through. 

TO RE-POT HOUSE PLANTS. 

Renew the soil every year and when a plant has reached what 
seems a disproportionate size for its pot, and the new shoots start 
vigorously, but soon cease growing, it is probable that it needs 
re-potting soon after the time of blossoming. Prepare soil as 
previously directed, and see that it is of the right degree of mois- 
ture, which may be known by gently pressing a handful of it, when 
it will form a ball or lump, but will crumble into fine earth again if 
struck or pinched with the fingers. If too wet, the ball will form, 
but will not crumble ; if too dry, it will only form by very hard 
pressure. Loosen the earth from the pot by passing a knife around 
the sides. Turn the plant upside down, and remove the pot. Then 
remove all the matted fibres at the bottom, and all the earth, 
except that which adheres to the roots. From woody plants, like 
roses, shake off all the earth. Take the new pot and put pieces of 
broken earthen-ware or brick in the bottom, and then, holding the 
plant in the proper position, shake in the earth around it. Then 
pour in water to settle the earth, and heap on fresh soil till the pot 
is nearly full. 



FLOWER CULTURE. 



683 



The following is as good a compost for nearly all kinds of plants 
as the amateur will be likely to obtain : One-third good garden 
loam, ^ turfy matter from beneath old sods, the other third made 
up of equal parts of well-rotted manure and sharp sand. Mix well. 

Jennie June says: Don't fuss with your plants too much, I 
have found that plants do much better when you let them pretty 
much alone than they do when you are all the time bothering with 
them. If you give them good soil, plenty of light, fresh air, and 
what, water they need, they will do well, in 9 cases out of 10, with- 
out farther attention. Of course you must keep them clean and 




free from insects. That is to be expected. But what I meant by 
letting them pretty much alone was, that you should not coax and 
coddle them as many do ; — to-day a little soap suds ; to-morrow a 
little fertilizer; the day after some liquid manure. It is just the 
same with plants as it is with children. Feed them good, nourish- 
ing food, when it is needed, and at no other time, and they will be 
strong and healthy, provided they have air and sunshine. A great 
many plants, as well as children, are fussed to death. 

Never water until the surface of the soil in the pot appears dry. 
All rules have exceptions, and this rule applies to most kinds 



684 FLOWER CULTURE. 

grown in the house, but not all. The calla, for instance, requires 
more water at its roots than it would be likely to get under the 
above prescription, and so does the fuchsia, when in active growth; 
but it will be found safe to treat nearly every other kind usually 
found in the ordinary collection of the amateur as above directed. 
The calla should be kept wet, — not merely moist, — and the fuchsia 
should be watered so frequently that 4he soil is quite moist all 
through ; but both of these plants should have good drainage given 
them. If this is done, there will be no danger of bad effect from 
over-watering. If not done, the soil will often become sour, 
because it retains the water which should run off. 

Remove all flowers as they fade. Allow none to form seed. If 
you do, all the energies of the plant will be bent toward perfecting 
it, and as a natural result you will have but few flowers after that. 

Syringe your plants overhead at least twice a week, and once a 
day is much better. Do this thoroughly, and take especial pains to 
throw the water up on the underside of the leaves. This is where 
the red spider lurks, and it dislikes nothing so much as moisture. 
It is only found in dry rooms, with a high temperature. The only 
way to keep it away, or to drive it away when it has taken posses- 
sion, is to use water freely and persistently. 

Never use cold well-water. Rain-water is best, but hard water 
will do if not given just as it comes from the pump. It is a good 
plan to add a few drops of ammonia to each pailful of hard 
water. 

Keep the aphis, green fly, or plant louse, in check by frequent 
fumigations with tobacco-stems, or by syringing daily, all infested 
plants with an infusion of tobacco-stems, until the pest is routed. 
Prepare the infusion by pouring boiling water on the stems or 
leaves. Let them steep for 12 hours, then drain off the water for 
use. It is about the right strength when the color of weak tea- 
Used thoroughly, it will drive the aphis away, but it is not as 
immediately effective as tobacco smoke is. But many prefer to use 
it because it is not so disagreeable. 

Turn your plants about every few days, to prevent their becom- 
ing drawn toward the light. If this is not done, you will have one- 



FLOWER CULTURE. 685 

sided specimens which will only look well from the outside of the 
window. 

If a plant has a tendency to grow tall, and you want it to be 
bushy and compact, cut the top off, and keep it cut off until you 
have succeeded in forcing side branches to start. 

Never use very large pots for plants from which you want many 
flowers. Plenty of root-room induces a vigorous growth of top. 
When small pots are used, there is less development of branch and 
more of flowers. 

When you pot or re-pot plants, always leave a space of i inch 
between the soil and the top of the pot. This allows you to pour 
on water without having a good deal of it run off. Fill the pot to 
its rim with water, and let it soak into the soil gradually. 

PREPARING BEDS FOR BULBS. 

The best soil for bulbs is one that is naturally well drained, rich, 
and somewhat sandy. The location of the beds must be left to the 
inclination of the owner. The location of beds near the house 
might be objected to if it was impossible to use these beds for 
other flowers after the bulbs had completed their spring blooming. 
for no one would care to have vacant places there all through the 
summer; but there can be no objection of this sort urged, because 
the annual growth and ripening of most bulbs is completed quite early 
in the season, and after that annuals and other plants can be set 
out in these beds without in the least interfering with the bulbs 
below. In this way the beds can be made useful all summer. 

If you have not a well-drained place in which to plant your 
bulbs, dig out the soil to the depth of i foot — better lyC feet — and 
put in old brick, crockery, broken pots, tin cans, or stone. Nothing 
damages a bulb so much as stagnant water about its roots. In fact, 
if water stands about it, it is impossible to grow it successfully. 

After having excavated your bed, mix in at least ^ of old and 
well-rotted manure — preferably that from a cow-yard. If the soil 
is heavy at the time you add the manure, mix in some sand. 
Work these elements together well, and when you have a mellow 
mass of earth, fill up the hollow where your bed is to be. It will 



686 FLOWER CULTURE. 

be some inches higher than the ground about it, and allow the 
water to run off it on all sides. 

The larger bulbs should be planted about 5 inches deep, and 
about 6 inches apart. Smaller ones can be planted closer together, 
and it will be found much more satisfactory to have these in beds 
by themselves than mixed with the larger flowering kinds. In large 
beds they can be used effectively as a border. 

THE CARE OF BULBS. 

Some persons make a practice of taking up tulips and hyacinths 
after they have completed their annual growth, and keeping them 
in a dry place during the summer, planting them out again in the 
fall. It involves a great deal of work, and nothing is gained by it. 
If given the proper soil, and taken care of as they should be, it is 
wholly unnecessary to take up bulbs and reset them for several 
years. After they have multiplied, it is always a good plan to take 
up, divide, and reset, throwing away all poor and diseased ones. 
Never take up in spring unless you desire to make changes in the 
beds which makes it necessary to clear them. 

In the fall the beds should always be covered with leaves or litter 
from the barn-yard to the depth of 6 or 8 inches. A good dressing 
of manure, always selecting that which has lain and rotted in 
preference to anything else, should also be dug into the soil. 

Covering for winter need not be put on till late. It should be 
removed quite early in spring. If you find that any have come up 
when you uncover the beds in spring, be sure to throw a blanket 
over them when a cold night comes. 

Do not disturb them after blooming. They will make their 
annual growth at that time. When this growth is completed you 
can tell by the turning yellow of the foliage, after which it will soon 
die and disappear. Then it will be safe to stir the surface of the 
soil, and fit it for annuals. Be careful not to dig deep enough to 
reach and injure the bulbs beneath. 

The best time to set bulbs is in the fall. September is a better 
month than October, because those planted out early have a chance 
to make strong roots before the coming of cold weather. 



FLOWER CULTURE. 



68; 



ARBORS. 

Below we have a small temporary arbor made with pots of 
climbing plants, placed at a little distance apart, but may, if 
desired be brought closer together, or there may be two rows of 
them, so as to form a close wall of foliage. The construction is 
very simple. A piece of wood is placed across the yard from wall 
to wall, and from the center of this a hoop is suspended by copper 
wire or strong cord (but the wire is preferred); from the hoop the 
wires radiate downward and outward to a circle of pots placed 
upon the ground and containing the climbers. It will be seen that 
the whole of the materials required will cost the merest trifle. 




A small yard may also, if desired, be roofed in during the sum- 
mer time by wires drawn across the top and overrun with creepers. 
A very effective ornament for a limited space is the skeleton of an 
old umbrella, its handle lengthened to a desired height, and placed 
in the center of a circle of pots containing climbers. The vines 
will twist in and out through the frame in a graceful profusion of 



688 FLOWER CULTURE. 

leaves and blossoms. The cypress vine, canary-bird flower, sweet- 
pea, nasturtium, and the morning-glory in its many gorgeous hues, 
are well adapted to this garden ornament. 

The American ivy, which can be had for the trouble of going 
to the woods or pasture after it in most localities at the north, is 
one of the best climbers we have, because it grows rapidly, is per- 
fectly hardy, and is always beautiful. It is fine all through the 
summer because of its rich, bright, profuse foliage, and especially 
so during September and October, when it takes on all the brilliance 
any plant is capable of assuming. It is a blaze of crimson and 
scarlet and maroon for 2 or 3 weeks during late autumn, and one 
never tires of it because its colors are constantly changing as the 
season advances. 

CREEPERS. 

The Clematis is a very desirable climber for summer blooming. 
It is best about the porch and "the veranda, as it does not grow to 
a sufficient height to make it a desirable plant for locations where 
a greater height than 10 or 12 feet is desired. Its great, starry 
flowers are always sure to be admired, and they are truly lovely. It 
is also excellent for training over old stumps, fences, and arbors. 

For places where the American ivy is too rampant a grower, the 
Japan ivy, or Ampelopsis Veitchii, is just what is wanted. It is a 
miniature variety of our native plant, but does not grow as 
luxuriantly. It reaches a great height in time, but it never throws 
out such riotous branches as the other does. It grows in a more 
dense and compact shape, clinging closer to the walls, and there- 
fore much less likely to become loosened in heavy winds and rains, 
and come down in great masses which can never be put back in 
place satisfactorily, as is often the case with its American relative. 

For the porch there is nothing better than the Honeysuckles, 
because they bloom all through the season, are beautiful and so 
fragrant. 

ROCKERIES. 

A rockery, if well constructed and placed in a proper position, 
should look like a charming bit of nature's architecture. If the 



FLOWER CULTURE. 689 

grounds are large this can be carried out to better advantage. A 
secluded nook should be selected, and the rockery constructed in 
the form of a terrace, with an opening at one end made purposely 
for ferns. A due regard should be given for good-sized crevices 
and pockets for the disposition of plants. Very pretty rockeries 
may be arranged against rustic walls to represent old ruins. The 
larger rocks, as a general thing, should be placed at the base, but 
an occasional large and angular stone may project here and there 
with good effect for some vagrant creeper to hang from. A mas- 
sive piece of blue granite makes a good finish at the top for the 
support of some climber, the preference of which is invariably 
given to the American ivy. 

The pockets should be filled with leaf mold, rich, light soils 
sandy loam, and soils adapted to the different species of plants 
which are intended to be grown in them. 

Wood ferns, squaw-berry vine, trailing arbutus, robin-run-the- 
hedge, money-wort, old English ivy, Virginia creeper and the Alpine 
plants, are especially adapted for such purposes. They require 
light, sandy loam and peat, with abundant drainage. With this 
foundation of creepers laid it can then be embellished with delicate 
bloomers. The modest violet, lily of the valley, and the faithful 
forget-me-not, are worthy of the quiet nook. The dianthus, alpinus,. 
saxifraga, sedum, and a host of others, are worthy of a place. The 
maiden-hair fern is an exquisite plant for the rockery, and a min-. 
gling of wild and cultivated ferns make a charming group, in con* 
nection with clusters of wild pansies. If the situation is cool and 
damp all these plants will thrive admirably. 

TRELLISED WINDOWS. 

Ornamental climbing and creeping plants should be employed 
to some extent in all kinds of gardening, as they furnish an element 
of grace differing widely from, and not attainable by, plants of a 
compact and self-supporting habit. Unquestionably most of these 
plants never appear to such advantage as when associated with 
rustic architecture, ruins ■ — natural or artificial, — or a portion of 

44 



690 



FLOWER CULTURE. 



a garden broken up into banks and dells, with rock-work intro- 
duced as a characteristic feature. 

The climbers most adapted for a trellised window, such as 
quick-growing ivies, morning-glories (convolvulus major), tall or run- 
ning nasturtium, canary creeper, coboea scandens, etc., are annuals, 
or must be treated as such for employment out of doors — 

that is, they must be raised 
from seed annually; and the 
best way to secure an early, 
abundant, and continuous dis- 
play of bloom, is to sow them 
in pots of nice soil in February 
or the beginning of March, 
giving them a warm position, 
and as soon as large enough 
put them singly into 5-inch 
pots ; they will then be strong 
enough for planting out in 
I May. When there is not the 
convenience for doing this, 
they may be sown out of doors, 
from the middle to the end of 
April, according to the weather. 
They all want a nice light soil to start in when planted out or 
sown, and should have sunny positions and may be employed 
wherever floriferous climbing plants are desired. 

Morning-glories, climbing-roses, Madeira^ vine, toboea scandens^ 
common woodbine, tall nasturtium, and such densely foliaged and 
full-flowering climbers require more space in planting than climbers 
that have scantier foliage, such as the cypress vine, canary creeper, 
etc. 




FLOWER CULTURE. 

FERNS. 



691 



Within the last few years the exquisitely beautiful and graceful 
ferns have become quite a household favorite. This is not at all 
surprising, as, besides the great beauty of the plants and the facility 
with which they may be applied to household decoration, they are 




very easily grown, and require but little attention when once the 
cases are gotten in good order. 

Fern baskets look pretty hung over the plants, if the dimensions 
of the fern case admit it. They can be made in any conceivable 
design and look exceedingly beautiful when filled with low-growing 
ferns and drooping trailers. (See illustration.) 

There are 3 essential conditions necessary in order that the cul- 
ture of fern plants may be successful: namely, abundance of 
water, shade, and shelter. It is true that some varieties will flourish 
independently of some of these conditions, but when judiciously 



692 



FLOWER CULTURE. 



combined they will admit of the successful cultivation of the whole 
species. 

Most species of the ferns grown indoors are raised in Wardian cases. 
In starting a fernery, the first thing to be observed is laying a 
foundation of small pieces of rock mixed with charcoal in the bot- 

tom ; if the case is large enough 
to admit it, a small or tiny rocb 
ery may be placed in the center 
with good effect. It is main- 
tained by good authority that 
equal parts of sand, loam, and 
leaf-mold is the proper soil for 
ferns. If woodland ferns are put 
in, they should have a generous 
portion of native soil left at the 
root. The fernery proper should 
have all wild things in it. The 
pretty partridge -vine, sanguinaria, 
hepatica, trailing arbutus, and 
A Wardian Case. lycopodium, all grow charmingly 

in the fernery, and with the wild ferns and mosses make a happy 
family. The plants should have a sprinkling before the case is 
closed, and must be kept in a shady situation for several days. 
Fernery plants do not require frequent watering ; once in every 3 
or 4 weeks should be suf^cient. As long as the glass has moisture 
on it, the plants require no water. If too much water be given, the 
plants will mold and die ; these should be replaced with fresh ones. 
Hardy ferns are found in various situations, and consequently 
require various modes of treatment. Some grow on rocks in 
exposed situations, others in boggy, moist ground ; some grow on 
hedge-banks and in shady woods, whilst others, again, grow near 
waterfalls where the spray keeps them constantly moist. To 
succeed in cultivating all these in one place, an approximation must 
be made to the circumstances in which they are found wild. 

The best time for potting is early in March; small plants may 




FLOWER CULTURE. 693 

be potted twice, the second time the first week in July, Ferns if 
they once get thoroughly dry will perish, therefore keep them con- 
stantly well watered, more especially when the pots are full of 
roots. Should they by any chance appear to be suffering severely 
from drought, take such and let them stand in a vessel of water 
that will cover the top of the pot for an hour or two. This will 
thoroughly wet every part of the ball, and often recover the plant. 



CHAPTBR XXXVII 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 



FLAVORING EXTRACTS, FRUIT-JUICES, ETC. 

The following directions for the preparation at home of extracts, 
etc., may be rehed upon. Of flavoring extracts put up for the 
general market, almond and peach are seldom pure, and are some- 
times even poisonous. The other kinds are less liable to be 
adulterated. 

To prepare vanilla, take I ounce fresh vanilla beans, cut fine, 
and rub thoroughly with 2 ounces granulated sugar, put in a pint 
bottle, and pour over it 4 ounces pure water, and 10 ounces 95 per 
cent, deodorized alcohol. Set in a warm place, and shake occasion- 
ally for 14 days. 

To prepare lemon, cut in small pieces the rinds of 2 lemons, put 
in a 4-ounce bottle, and fill with deodorized strong alcohol, set in a 
warm place for i week : then put 2 drachms fresh oil lemon, 4 
ounces deodorized strong alcohol, and the juice of ^ lemon, in a 
bottle of sufficient size to hold all ; then strain in the tincture of 
lemon-peel. 

To make orange extract, use the rind and oil of orange, as 
directed for lemon. 

To make rose extract, put I ounce red rose leaves in i pint 
deodorized alcohol, let stand 8 days; press out the liquid from the 
leaves, and add it to ^ drachm otto of roses. 

Oils must be fresh and pure, or the extract will have a turpen- 
tine taste ; and always use deodorized alcohol. 

For fruit juices, select clean, ripe fruit, press out juice, and 
strain it through fiannel ; to each pint juice, add 6 ounces pure 
granulated sugar ; put in a porcelain kettle, bring to boiling point, 
and bottle while hot, in 2 or 4 ounce bottles. 

Canned-fruit juice may be used in the same way. These juices 

694 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 695 

are a perfect substitute for brandy, wine, etc., in all puddings and 
sauces, etc. 

To filter water and alcoholic solutions (not syrups), pass through 
filtering paper, folded in conical form, so as to set into a funnel (a 
^-pint glass funnel is best). The paper is kept at all drug stores. 

CEMENT. 

Two parts, by weight, common pitch, and i part gutta percha, 
melted together in an iron vessel, makes a cement that holds 
together, with wonderful tenacity, wood, stone, ivory, leather, 
porcelain, silk, woolen, or cotton. It is well adapted to aquariums. 

CEMENT FOR CHINA. 

Into a thick solution of gum arable stir plaster of Paris until 
the mixture assumes the consistency of cream ; apply with a brush 
to the broken edges of china and join together. In 3 days the 
article can not be broken in the same place. The whiteness of the 
cement adds to its value. 

CEMENT FOR RUBBER OR LEATHER. 

Dissolve I ounce gutta percha in ^ pound chloroform. Clean 
the parts to be cemented, cover each with the solution and let 
them dry 20 or 30 minutes, warm each part in the flame of the 
candle, and press very firmly together till dry. 

DIAMOND CEMENT. 

Dissolve 13 ounces white glue in a glue-pot containing i^ pints 
soft water ; when the glue is dissolved, stir in 3 ounces white lead, 
and boil till well mixed ; remove from the fire, and, when cool, add 
3^ pint alcohol ; bottle immediately and keep well corked. 

POSTAGE STAMP MUCILAGE. 

Take 2 ounces gum dextrine, i ounce acetic acid, 5 ounces 
water. Dissolve in a water bath and add i ounce alcohol. 



696 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 

PASTE. 

How many little things are left unmended for the want of some 
ready-made paste in the house. Liquid glue is often not strong 
enough to hold thick material together ; but dextrine answers all 
purposes. It is very cheap, is mixed with cold water, and keeps 
better than paste till next wanted. Keeping some of the powder 
in the house and a special pot or jar for mixing, will be found most 
convenient. It can be made thick or thin, to suit v/hat it is 

required for. 

LIME WATER. 

One of the most useful agents of household economy, if rightly 
understood, is lime water. Its mode of preparation is as follows: 
Put a stone of fresh unslacked lime about the size of a 3^-peck 
measure into a large stone jar or unpainted pail, and pour over it 
slowly and carefully (so as not to slacken too rapidly), 4 gallons 
hot water, and stir thoroughly; let it settle, and then stir again 2 
or 3 times in 24 hours. Then bottle carefully all that can be 
poured off in a clear and limpid state. 

Uses. — It is often sold by druggists as a remedy for children's 
summer complaints, i teaspoon being a dose in i cup milk, and 
when diarrhoea is caused by acidity of the stomach, it is an excellent 
remedy, and when put into milk gives no unpleasant taste, but 
rather improves the flavor. 

When put into milk that might curdle when heated, it will pre- 
vent its so doing, and can then be used for puddings and pies. A 
little stirred into cream or milk, after a hot day or night, will pre- 
vent its turning when used for tea or coffee. 

It is unequaled in cleansing bottles or small milk vessels, or 
babies* nursing bottles, as it sweetens and purifies without leaving 
an unpleasant odor or flavor. 

A cupful, or even more, mixed in the sponge of bread or cakes 
made over night, will prevent it from souring. 

TOLU CHEWING GUM. 
Take 4 parts balsam tolu and i part each gum benzoin, white 
wax, paraffine and powdered sugar. Melt together ; mix well and 
roll into sticks. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 697 

CALCIMINE. 

Take 4 pounds Paris white, put it in a pail, cover it with cold 
water and let it stand over night. Put into a kettle 4 ounces glue, 
and cover it also with cold water. In the morning set the glue on 
the stove, and add enough warm water to make i quart; stir it until 
dissolved. Add the glue to the Paris white, and pour in warm 
water till the pail is ^ full ; then add bluing, a little at a time, 
stirring it well until the mixture is slightly bluish. Use a good 
brush, and go over one spot on the wall till it is thoroughly wet. 
If your brush dries quickly, add more warm water, as the mixture 
is too thick. The brush must be kept wet. 

EXCELLENT WHITEWASH. 

Sixteen pounds Paris white and ^ pound glue. The glue should 
be covered with cold water at night and in the morning heated 
without scorching until dissolved. The Paris white is stirred into 
hot water to give it the proper consistency for applying to 
walls, and the dissolved glue is then added and thoroughly mixed. 
It is applied with a brush like the common lime whitewash. 
Except on very dark and smoky walls, a single coat is sufficient. 

TO KEEP CIDER. 

Allow ^ pound sugar to i gallon, the whites of 6 eggs, well 
beaten, i handful common salt. Leave it open until fermentation 
ceases, then bung up. This process a dealer in cider has used for 
years, and always successfully. 

Another Recipe.— To keep cider sweet allow it to work until it 
has reached the state most desirable to the taste, and then add i^ 
tumblers grated horse-radish to each barrel, and shake up well. 
This arrests further fermentation. After remaining a few weeks, 
rack off and bung up closely in clean casks. 

A Holland Recipe. — To i quart new milk, fresh from the cow, 
add ^ pound ground black mustard-seed and 6 eggs. Beat the 
whole well together, and pour into a barrel of cider. It will keep 
cider sweet for a year or more. 



6^8 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 

JETTINE, OR LIQUID SHOE BLACKING. 

Water-Proof and Does Not Soil Ladies White Dresses. — One 
quart alcohol, >^ pound gum shellac, camphor gum size of a hen's egg 
I ounce lamp black. Break up the shellac finely and put into a 
bottle with the alcohol, keeping in a warm place and shaking 12 
times daily till dissolved; then break up the gum camphor and put 
in, and when dissolved add the lamp black, when it is ready for use. 
Apply with a sponge fastened with wire to the cork. The camphor 
prevents the cracking of the varnish. It may be applied to any- 
thing requiring a black finish. 

GARMENTS MADE WATERPROOF. 

A correspondent to an English paper, says : For many years I 
have worn India rubber waterproofs, but I will have no more, for I 
have learned that good Scotch tweed can be made entirely imper- 
vious to rain ; and moreover, I have learned how to make it so, 
and the following is the receipt : In i bucket water put ^ pound 
sugar lead and y^. pound powdered alum ; stir this at intervals until 
it becomes clear, pour it off into another bucket and put the gar- 
ment therein, and let it be there 24 hours and then hang it up to 
dry, without wringing it. Two of my party, lady and gentleman, 
have worn garments thus treated in the wildest storms of wind and 
rain, without getting wet. The rain hangs upon the cloth in 
globules. In short, they are really waterproof. The gentleman a 
fortnight ago walked 9 miles in a storm of rain and wind, such as 
you seldom see in the south, and when he slipped off his overcoat 
his underwear was as dry as when he put it on. 

TO PREVENT MILDEW. 

Dissolve 4 ounces powdered alum and 4)^ ounces sugar of lead in 
3 gallons water ; allow it to stand long enough to settle, then pour off 
the clear part and add 2 drachms isinglass, which has previously been 
dissolved in a little warm water. Steep the goods in this and dry 
without wringing. A fine thing for awnings, tents, or any goods 
exposed to the weather. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 699 

TO PREVENT RUST. 

To prevent metals from rusting, melt together 3 parts lard and 
I of rosin, and apply a very thin coating. It will preserve Russia 
iron stoves and grates from rusting during summer, even in damp 
situations.. The effect is equally good on brass, copper, steel, etc. 
The same compound forms an excellent waterproof paste for leather. 
Boots, when treated with it, will soon after take the usual polish, 
when blacked, and the soles may be saturated with it. 

To Preserve Steel Articles from Rust. — Paint the articles over 
with white beeswax dissolved in benzole. The benzole rapidly 
evaporates, leaving the steel covered with a thin coating of the wax. 
As the solution is very volatile it should be kept in a bottle tightly 
corked. 

To Remove Rust from a Stovepipe. — Rub with linseed oil (a little 
goes a great way) ; build a slow fire till it is dry. Oil in the spring 
to prevent rusting. 

FROSTING FOR WINDOWS. 

To shut out a disagreeable view from a back window, the glass 
may be rendered ornamental, and the obnoxious objects shut out, 
by a very simple plan, which makes a fair imitation of ground glass. 
By washing the glass over with a hot saturated solution of epsom 
salts, or sal-ammoniac, or Glauber's salts, or blue stone, very beau- 
tiful effects of crystallization can be obtained by which the above 
purpose is served and the window has also a very ornamental 
appearance. By a saturated solution is meant one containing as 
much of the salt as the water will dissolve. The solution must be 
applied while hot and with a brush. 

BLACK TRACING PAPER. 

Rub smooth a little lampblack and mix with sweet oil. Paint 
over the paper, and dab it dry with a fine piece of linen. Put this 
under the pattern, and upon the material to which you wish the 
pattern transferred, and go over the lines with a hard point of 
wood or metal. If you wish it, the transferred lines may be fixed 



700 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 

by using a pen with a kind of inlc composed of a little stone-biHc 
well mixed with water in a cup, with a small piece of sugar added 
to it. 

SYMPATHETIC INK. 

One of the best known kinds of sympathetic ink consists of a 
weak solution of chloride or nitrate of cobalt. Writing executed 
with such a solution is invisible until warmed, when it appears 
green or bluish, disappearing on exposure to moist air. 

BLACK INK, FOR WRITING AND COPYING. 

Inks made from the nut galls alone as the coloring agent are 
not as good a black as those made with the addition of logwood 
chips; hence we say: One oz. logwood chips, ^ lb. nut galls in 
coarse powder, 3 ozs. purified copperas, ^ oz. acetate of copper 
(verdigris), 3 ozs. pulverized sugar and 4 ozs. gum Arabic, i gal. soft 
water. If not to be used as a copying ink no sugar need be used 
and only 2 or 3 ozs. of the gum Arabic to hold the colors sus- 
pended in the ink else they settle. Boil the logwood chips in the 
water for i or 2 hours, or as long as a woman would boil it for 
coloring; when cool, strain, making up for evaporation with more 
hot water ; bruise the best blue galls coarsely and put over the fire 
again till it begins to boil, adding the other articles and set away 
until it acquires the desired blackness, strain and bottle for use. 

FOOD FOR HENS. 

Take a piece of fresh meat, coarse beef, liver, or even blood, 
about I pound, and boil it in ^ gal. water until it falls to pieces, 
adding more water as it is evaporated, so that there shall be this 
quantity when it is sufficiently boiled. While boiling, add ^ pint 
soaked beans, the same of rice, and the same of oil-cake or linseed 
meal. When the whole is cooked, add a little salt, and thicken 
with 2 parts oatmeal, i of bran, i of middlings, and i of corhmeal. 
Make it of the consistency of stiff dough. If milk be plenty, it 
may be added either as curds, buttermilk, or in any other shape. 
When boiling, add i teaspoon common bread soda to the water. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 7OI 

This food may be cooked in the form of cake, and crumbled for 
the fowls, or it may be fed in the soft state. One tablespoon is a 
sufficient ration for a hen. 

Another good mess is to chop clover and steep it over night in 
boiling hot water. In the morning, letting the water come to a 
boil, add fresh blood at the rate of i quart to i gallon water, and 
then thicken with meal, etc., as before. Condiments, such as 
cayenne pepper, ginger, etc., may be sparingly added. All soft 
poultry foods should be salted to taste, as salt is as necessary to 
poultry as to stock, and so is an abundance of clean drinking water. 

GARDENING IN A HOGSHEAD. 

Bore holes in rows around a hogshead, at regular intervals, 6 
inches apart ; fill the hogshead with earth, and set a strawberry 
plant in each one of the holes, beside putting a number of plants 
on top. There can be 100 plants growing from the sides of this 
novel garden. 

SACHET OR PERFUME POWDER. 

One ounce lavender flowers, 2 drachms pulverized orris, ^ 
ounce bruised rosemary leaves, 5 grains musk, 5 drops attar of rose; 
mix well, sew up in small flat muslin bags, and cover them with 
fancy silk or satin. 

ROSE JAR. 

An old recipe, warranted to be good, and which calls for great 
care in the gathering of the leaves. It is said to remain fragrant 
in open bowls for 2 years if occasionally stirred, but in the closed 
pot-pourri it will remain fragrant much longer. Pluck the rose 
leaves early in the morning; with them have an equal quantity of 
lavender blossoms, and put them all in a large earthenware bowl ; 
add i^ pound crushed orris root, and then to every 2 pounds add 
2 ounces each of bruised cloves, cinnamon, allspice and salt ; let the 
whole stand for about 2 weeks, thoroughly mixing it every day 
with your hands, and then it will be ready for use. As pot-pourris 
are charming gifts, it will be wise to arrange a number in order that 
one's city friends may have odors of the land of roses. 



CHAPTKR XXXVIII. 



MANY USES OF COMMON THINGS. 

(A// Rights Reserved.) 



If, in this closing chapter of the book, the good old saying of 
keeping the " best till the last " is not illustrated, it is the belief of 
the writer that those who use the QUEEN OF THE Household will 
find it "one of the best." 

There are many times in life when it is better to know consider- 
able about the common things at hand than it is to know a little 
about a great many things that are out of reach. It is hoped that 
this chapter may be found useful in giving information on articles 
common in the household. 

THE USES OF AMMONIA. 



IN THE KITCHEN. 

A few drops of ammonia in water will take off grease from 
dishes, pans, etc., does not injure the hands as much as the use of 
soda and strong chemical soaps. A spoonful in a quart of warm 
water for cleaning paint, makes it look like new, and so with every- 
thing that needs cleaning. 

No articles in kitchen use are so likely to be neglected and 
abused as the dish-cloths and dish-towels; and in washing these, 
ammonia, if properly used, is excellent. Put a teaspoonful into the 
water in which these cloths are washed ; rub soap on the towels. 
Put them in the water; let them stand half an hour or so; then rub 
them out, rinse, and dry out-doors in clear air and sun. 

IN THE LAUNDRY. 
Spots on towels and hosiery will disappear with little trouble if 
a little ammonia is put into enough water to soak the articles, and 
they are left in it an hour or two, or over night, before washing. 

702 



MANY USES OF COMMON THINGS. 703 

If the color has been taken out of silks by fruit stains, ammonia 
will usually restore the color. 

When acid of any kind gets on clothing, spirits of ammonia 
will kill it. Apply chloroform to restore the color. 

Grease spots may be taken out with weak ammonia in water ; 
lay soft white paper over and iron with a hot iron. 

Equal parts of ammonia and turpentine will take paint out of 
clothing, even if it be hard and dry. Saturate the spot as often as 
necessary, and wash out in soap suds. 

Flannels and blankets may be soaked in a pail of water con- 
taining I tablespoon of ammonia and a little suds. Rub as little 
as possible and they will be white and clean, and will not shrink. 

AS A FERTILIZER. 

When employed in washing anything that is not especially 
soiled, use the waste water afterward for the house plants that are 
taken down from their usual position and immersed in the tub of 
water. Ammonia is a fertilizer, and helps to keep healthy the plants 
it nourishes. 

ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 

One or 2 tablespoons ammonia added to a pail of water will 
clean windows better than soap. 

A few drops in a cup of warm water, applied carefully, will 
remove spots from paintings and chromos. 

Old brass may be cleaned to look like new by pouring strong 
ammonia on it, and scrubbing with a scrub-brush, rinse in clear water. 

Keep nickel, silver ornaments and mounts bright by rubbing 
with woolen cloth saturated in spirits of ammonia. 

A dark carpet often looks dusty soon after it has been swept, 
and you know it does not need sweeping again ; so wet a cloth or a 
sponge, wring it almost dry, and wipe off the dust. A few drops of 
ammonia in the water will brighten the colors. 

FOR THE TOILET. 
If those who perspire freely, would use a little ammonia in the 
water they bathe in every day, it would keep their flesh sweet and 
clean, doing away with any disagreeable odor. 



704 MANY USES OF COMMON THINGS. 

For cleaning hair-brushes it is excellent ; put i tablespoon into 
the water, having it only tepid, and dip up and down until clean; 
then dry with the brushes down, and they will be like new ones. 

AS A REMEDY. 

Ammonia, applied 2 or 3 times on a fresh cold-sore, will kill it. 
It will drive it away if used when the cold-sore is first felt. 

One-half teaspoon taken in ^ tumbler water is excellent for 
faintness. It is also beneficial for nervousness, headache and heart 
trouble. 

For toothache see "Toothache" in Diseases and Home Reme- 
dies. 



USES OF BORAX. 



FOR THE TOILET. 

Owing to its softening qualities borax is a desirable agent. for 
toilet use. It does not injure the complexion ; is cleansing and 
healing, and as one writer puts it, "women could better lose all 
other cosmetics than do without borax," and a box of it in powdered 
form should be in every well-ordered home. 

For washing the face and hands, a little of the powder may be 
put into the water, or a saturated solution may be made by putting 
into a bottle of water all the borax it will dissolve, and then putting 
enough of the solution into the water to render it soft and velvety. 
For open pores in the chin or nose, and for a greasy skin dissolve 
^ teaspoon borax in i cup of hot water, and use as a lotion hot. 
The result will please. For pimply skin, for freckles, for a red nose, 
or for blemishes of the skin the hot application is beneficial. In 
some form borax should be an adjunct to every traveler's outfit. 

Equal parts of borax and precipitated chalk makes a good 
powder for shiny faces, and the solution may be combined with 
lemon juice — juice of I lemon to i pint of the solution — or with 
cologne, rose or orange water, in equal parts with good results, for 
sunburn, freckles and facial blemishes. 



MANY USES OF COMMON THINGS. 705 

For weak or inflamed eyes a solution made by dissolving i tea- 
spoon borax in i pint soft water has been found efficacious. Apply 
several times a day with clean fingers, allowing the lotion to dry on 
the eyes. 

The scalp and hair needs an occasional cleansing, and for this 
borax and water is excellent. After it has been well shampooed, 
wash it thoroughly with clear water, dry the hair and scalp well. 
Make the solution rather weak, and if the head is not naturally 
oily, a little cocoanut oil, or vaseline, can afterward be rubbed into 
the scalp. 

A good pinch of borax in ^ glass of warm water, makes a good 
wash for the mouth and teeth, or the powder can be sprinkled on 
the tooth-brush and used in the usual way. 

As an accompaniment for the bath borax has come to stay. It 
cleanses, heals and removes odors of perspiration. Two or three 
tablespoons of the powder may be dissolved in the bath water, or 
the solution may be added until the water feels soft. When you 
have done this take your bath and be happy. It leaves the skin 
soft, delicate and clear. 

FOR THE LAUNDRY. 

It is only of late that people have become sufficiently acquainted 
with the detersive and purifying quaHties of borax to use it in the 
laundry. It is not as trying on colors as soda, nor as corrosive to. 
the fabric. For laces, muslins, ribbons and woolens it is par excel- 
lence. A tablespoonful for a gallon of water is about the right 
amount for general use. For washing where soap is used perhaps; 
a generous handful to 8 or 10 gallons water will answer. 

One writer says the addition of i ounce borax to i pound soap,, 
melted in without boiling, will save half the cost of soap, three- 
quarter the labor of washing, and leave the clothes in a much 
improved condition. 

When starching clothes add i or 2 teaspoons borax to each pint 
boiling starch, or use a like quantity in the water you use to make 
the starch, and the result will be improved stiffening and a much 

better finish. 

45 



706 MANY USES OF COMMON THINGS. 

FOR THE KITCHEN. 
For all uses in the kitchen when cleanliness is the object borax 
is good. For washing dishes, tin and iron-ware, windows, cleaning 
paint and sinks the addition of borax will prove a great help. It 
is also good for washing marble, alabaster, gold and silver-ware. It 
is a foe to dirt and disease germs, hence can be used freely. 

MEDICINAL USES OF BORAX. 

A little powdered borax, snuffed up the nostrils at night only, 
is good for catarrh in the head, and a little applied to canker spots 
in the mouth is said to heal them speedily. It is also good for 
infant's sore mouth, stings and bites of insects, or prickly heat. A 
bit like a small pea, dissolved in the mouth and swallowed, allays 
coughs and throat irritation and clears the voice. 

A solution of borax and salt water is recommended to lave the 
mouths of children in famiUes where there is diphtheria as a pre- 
ventive, and a strong solution, say i tablespoon in ^ pint water, of 
borax and hot water applied three times a day will cure ringworms. 
The same solution is good to clean sponges and babies' nursing 
bottles. For bunions and burns saturate soft linen with a solution 
of borax and bind on. 

MISCELLANEOUS USES. 

For preserving meat borax is much used. Fresh meat can be 
preserved for weeks by dusting it over with powdered borax and 
then rubbing it in thoroughly. Wash it just before using. Hams 
and bacon will not be troubled by flies if borax finely powdered be 
carefully applied. Large quantities of fish from Norway and meats 
from Argentine Republic are preserved fresh in this way and sold 
in the markets of London. 

As an insecticide borax takes a front rank. Ants, cockroaches, 
croton bugs, bed bugs, lice and slugs on trees all disappear before a 
vigorous use of it in some form. 

Sprinkle the dry powder for house pests, and use the solution 
on trees. Blankets and furs put away well dusted with the powder 
are said to be free from the ravages of the moth. 



MANY USES OF COMMON THINGS. 707 

USES OF KEROSENE OIL. 



FOR LAUNDRY WORK. 

For laundry work oil is becoming well known. The clothes 
are put to soak over night in warm soap suds. In the morning 
clean water is put in the boiler and to it is added a bar of any good 
kind of soap, shred fine, and 2^ tablespoons kerosene oil. The 
clothes being wrung from the suds, the finest and whitest go into 
the scalding water in the boiler and are boiled twenty minutes. 
When taken from the boiler for the next lot, they are sudsed in 
warm water, collars, cuffs and seams being rubbed if necessary. 
Rinsed and blued as usual, they will come forth beautifully soft and 
white. Knit woolen underwear, woolen socks, etc., may safely be 
washed in this way. 

The secret of washing successfully by this method is the use 
of plenty of soap and warm water to suds the clothes. If too little 
soap be used the dirt will "curdle" and settle on the clothes in 
" freckles." 

One teaspoon of oil added to i quart of made starch, stirred in 
while it is hot, or added to the starch before the hot water is poured 
upon it, will materially lessen the labor of ironing and will give to 
clothes, either white or colored, especially muslins and other thin 
wash goods, a look of freshness and newness not to be otherwise 
attained. 

For cold starch add i teaspoon oil for each shirt to be starched. 
Rub the starch well into the article, roll up tightly, and leave it for 
three-fourths of an hour, then iron. 

To remove paint from any kind of cloth, saturate the spot with 
kerosene and rub well ; repeat if necessary. 

To remove fruit stains, saturate the stain with kerosene, rub 
thoroughly with baking soda and leave in the sun. 

ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 

To clean windows and mirrors, add i tablespoon kerosene oil 
to I gallon of tepid water. A polish will remain on the glass that 
no mere friction can give. 



7o8 MANY USES OF COMMON THINGS. 

If windows must be cleaned in freezing weather use no water 
at all. Rub them with a cloth dampened with kerosene ; dry with 
a clean cloth and polish with soft paper. 

A few drops of kerosene added to the water in which lamp 
chimneys are washed will make them easier to polish. 

To break a glass bottle or jar evenly, put in a narrow strip of 
cloth, saturated with kerosene, around the article where it is to be 
broken. Set fire to the cloth and the glass will crack off above it. 

Tarnished lamp burners may be rendered almost as bright as 
new by boiling them in water to which i teaspoon soda and a little 
kerosene have been added. Rub with scouring brick and polish 
with chamois or soft leather. 

To clean iron work rub with a cloth dampened with kerosene. 

To prevent rust on stoves put away for the season, black them 
before putting away with blacking, diluted with kerosene, or rub 
them thoroughly with kerosene alone. 

To clean zinc, oilcloths and white paint rub them with a cloth 
dipped in kerosene, and dry with a clean cloth. 

To clean brass stair rods, brass bedsteads and other brasses, rub 
with kerosene and rotten stone put on with a soft cloth, and polish 
with a dry cloth, soft paper or chamois. 

To remove rust from kettles or other ironware, rub with kero- 
sene, and let them stand. Keep a day, then wash with hot water 
and soap ; repeating if necessary. 

To remove rust from flatirons, soak them in, or rub them with 
kerosene, and polish with scouring brick. 

To remove rusty screws, drop kerosene upon them ; in a few 
minutes they can be moved. 

To take rust from steel implements, cover with kerosene for 
forty-eight hours, then scour with air-slacked lime until the stain 
disappears. 

To renew woodwork and furniture rub with kerosene and then 
with linseed oil. 

To renovate black walnut furniture, varnish with black varnish, 
plentifully diluted with kerosene. 

To soften leather hardened by repeated weltings, rub it well 
with kerosene. 



MANY USES OF COMMON THINGS, 709 

To clean a sewing or other machine, oil all the bearings plenti- 
fully with kerosene, operate the machine rapidly for a moment, rub 
the oil off and apply machine oil. 

AS A REMEDY. 

To remove dandruff, rub kerosene well into the roots of the 
hair; the dandruff can then be combed or washed out easy. 

To make the hair grow, apply kerosene to the roots of the 
hair twice each week, rubbing in well with the tips of the fingers. 
This will often produce a growth of hair when all other means fail. 

To relieve chilblains, soak the feet in hot water and rub them 
with kerosene, or with kerosene and lime water. 

To relieve calloused feet, rub them frequently with kerosene. 

To relieve the pain of rheumatism, rub the afflicted joint with 
kerosene. 

Kerosene poured on red flannel and bound on the throat will 
greatly ease a sore throat. 

USES OF SALT. 



IN THE KITCHEN. 

To cool earthenware or glass quickly, place the article in cold 
salt water. 

When broiling steak throw a little salt on the coals and the 
blaze from the dripping fat will not annoy. 

If a bright, clear fire is quickly desired, it may be readily 
obtained by throwing salt upon the coals. 

Damp salt will remove the discoloration of cups and saucers 
caused by tea and careless washing. 

One teaspoon salt put into a kerosene lamp, will improve the 
quality of the light. 

Salt in whitewash adds to its sticking properties. Salt and 
vinegar will beautifully clean the mica in stove doors. 

Brasswork can be kept beautifully bright by occasionally rub- 
bing with salt and vinegar. 

Salt dissolved in alcohol, gin, or ammonia, will take out grease 
spots. 



710 MANY USES OF COMMON THINGS. 

IN THE LAUNDRY. 

When washing black articles, it is well to add quite a bit of salt 
to the waterj; it will tend to set the colors, and prevent them 
running. 

Remove iron rust or ink spots by moistening the spots with 
salt and cream of tartar, or salt and lemon-juice, exposing to full 
heat of the sun. 

Mildew may be removed by rubbing common yellow soap on 
it, then salt and starch over that ; rub all in well and lay in the 
bright sunshine. 

FOR CARPETS AND FURNITURE. 

When wiping up the floor before putting the carpet down 
sprinkle it all over with salt while damp. This will greatly prevent 
moths. 

One can make a carpet look much cleaner and brighter if, just 
before sweeping, she would throw some damp salt upon it ; or after 
a carpet has been swept, wipe it over with a cloth or sponge wrung 
out of clean salt water ; this will remove that dusty look which so 
soon gathers on freshly swept carpets, and will brighten the colors. 
A cupful of coarse salt to a basin of water is the right proportion. 

If ink is spilled on the carpet, throw a quantity of salt on it, 
which will quickly absorb the ink ; take this up, and put on more 
salt. Keep repeating this, rubbing it well into the ink spot until 
the ink is all taken up by the salt , then brush the salt out of the 
carpet. 

Salt and water will thoroughly clean straw matting and willow 
furniture that have not been stained or colored. 

TO KILL WEEDS. 

For troublesome weeds, and for grass in sidewalks, driveways, 
etc., apply a dressing of coarse salt ; this will kill all growth. Be 
careful not to put it on anything that should not be destroyed, 
however. 

Used in moderate amount as a farmer sows seed salt acts as a 
fertilizer, and is a valuable one. It can be sowed separate or mixed 
with ashes or land plaster. 



MANY USES OF COMMON THINGS. 711 

FOR MEDICINAL USES. 

For weak eyes a wash of weak salt and water will prove of 
much benefit. 

Salt as a tooth-powder is better than almost anything that can 
be bought. It keeps the teeth briUiantly white and the gums hard 
and rosy. 

Not all the tonics of the hairdresser's will do your hair half the 
good, if it manifests a tendency toward falling out, that a daily 
scalp bath of strong salt and water will. 

Salt-water baths are an excellent tonic; taken warm they are 
delightfully refreshing when one is heated or tired, and taken cold 
they are the best preventive in the world of too great susceptibility 
to colds. One delicate woman, who used to insist that she " caught 
a cold on coming into the world and had never been without one 
since," became as indifferent to damp and draughts as a sailor, after 
a year's trial of salt baths. 

If the feet are tired or painful after long standing, great relief 
can be had by bathing them in salt water. A handful of salt to a 
gallon of water is the right proportion. Have the water as hot as 
can be comfortably borne. Immerse the feet and throw the water 
over the legs as far as the knees with the hands. When the water 
becomes too cool rub briskly with a flesh towel. This method, if 
used night and morning, will cure neuralgia of the feet. 

One teaspoon salt dissolved in ^ glass water is excellent to 
allay nausea in sick headaches. 

To relieve heartburn drink ^4 tumbler cold water in which has 
been dissolved i tablespoon salt. 

If, after having a tooth pulled, the mouth is filled with salt and 
water, it will allay the danger of having a hemorrhage. 

For stings or bites from any kind of insect apply dampened 
salt, bound tightly over the spot. It will relieve, and usually cure 
very quickly. 

For those who have sensitive gums, inclined to bleed on the 
slightest provocation, a mouth wash of salt and cold water used once 
or twice a day will harden the gums and prevent soreness. 



712 MANY USES OF COMMON THINGS. 

Salt is good for the stomach. A pinch of it in hot water, taken 
either just before or just after a meal, is a valuable aid to digestion, 
and a cupful of very hot salt water will sometimes quiet the most 
persistent nausea. 

If the throat is very sore wring a cloth out of cold salt and 
water, and bind it on the throat tightly when going to bed ; cover 
it with a dry towel. This is excellent. 

For neuralgia make a small muslin bag, fill it with salt, heat it 
very hot and lay it against the aching place. It will prove a great 
relief, as salt retains the heat a long time. 

Heated dry and applied to the outer surface over the seat of 
inflammation or congestion, it will give almost instant relief, while 
applications of a strong, hot solution of salt, in water or vinegar, 
acts like magic upon toothache, earache, neuralgic headache, and 
all that brood of distressing ills. 

For catarrh snuff up considerable salt and water from the hol- 
low of the hand every morning. Salt and water, used as a gargle 
just before going to bed, strengthens the throat and helps to pre- 
vent bronchial troubles ; it is also excellent for sore throat. 

For hay fever, and those other slighter forms of nasal sensitive- 
ness that induce a constant sneezing, there is no remedy more 
quickly palliative, and often curative, than the vapor of heated salt 
and alcohol. Put both in a tin vessel and heat over a flame. When 
there is a good showing of vapor place the vessel underneath a cov- 
ering that envelops the head as well, and inhale the vapor through 
both nose and throat. For influenza and ordinary colds this treat- 
ment is also excellent. 

But there is one caution to offer. However beneficial the 
therapeutic action of salt may be, there is no question but salt taken 
into the system with the food in too great quantities is extremely 
harmful. Too much salt in the system dries up the blood and the 
healthy moisture of the membranous surfaces, and is evidenced by a 
dead yellow pallor of the skin, with a blanching of the lips and 
cheeks and a morbid craving for the condiment which nothing but 
its use in enormous quantities will satisfy. 



MANY USES OF COMMON THINGS. 713 

USES OF SODA. 



IN THE KITCHEN. 

A housekeeper of many years' experience states that she is 
convinced that most ladies do not know the value of soda as a 
help to economy in housekeeping. It is a great aid to cleanliness, 
in that respect saving soap. Acid fruits, such as cranberries, goose- 
berries, plums, prunellas and rhubarb, require almost an unlimited 
amount of sugar, much of which can be saved by stirring in, before 
sweetening, a little soda — as a general rule about ^2 teaspoon to 
I quart of fruit. A little soda put into the water in which you boil 
vegetables and tough meats will make them tender and sweet and 
hasten cooking. Ham should be parboiled in soda water, taken 
out, washed and scraped well, and then finished by boiling in clear 
water ; this method makes it sweeter and more tender than the 
ordinary way. In warm weather meat may be freshened by wash- 
ing in cold soda water before cooking. If slightly tainted this treat- 
ment will effectually cure it. 

It is not only a saver of soap, but more cleanly, readily remov- 
ing grease from dishes, tinware and sinks. When added to dish- 
water no soap is needed, and you have no suds or greasy rim around 
the dishpan. 

For scouring and brightening table and kitchen knives use 
soda, with or without ordinary brick dust. 

To polish silver or tinware apply soda. If stains are bad use 
soda moist. 

Soda in warm water and soapsuds will clean and brighten lamp- 
chimneys that have become dingy or stained by smoke. 

Marble can be scoured with whitening and soda and a damp 
cloth. The water-closet, kitchen-sink and laundry-tubs can be kept 
sweet and clean with a generous use of soda and hot water. 

The odor can be removed from a glass bottle or earthen vessel 
by filling it with cold water in which soda has been dissolved. Let 
it stand open in an airy place for a few days, changing the water 
each day. 

When the butter fails to come after the customary amount of 
churning i teaspoon soda will be found to expedite matters. 



714 MANY USES OF COMMON THINGS. 

FOR THE LAUNDRY. 

To bleach cotton cloth, take i large tablespoon soda and i pound 
chloride lime for 30 yards ; dissolve in clean water ; rinse the cloth 
thoroughly in cold soft water that it may not rot. That amount of 
cloth may be bleached in 15 minutes. 

Soda moistened in milk or soapsuds will remove fruit or tea- 
stains on table-linen or napkins. 

It may be well to bear in mind that for common cleaning pur- 
poses the kind known as washing or sal-soda will answer all purposes, 
but for the toilet, cooking or medicinal uses baking or bi-carbonate 
soda should be used. 

Fancy long plumes on ladies' hats can be washed beautifully 
in a weak solution of soda, squeezed out with the hands and dried 
in corn starch ; curled up again they look like new. Also delicate 
laces can be cleaned in like manner. 

White fur boas will look fluffy and pretty as ever if washed 
carefully in warm water and soda. 

Flowers may be kept fresh for a long time by putting a pinch 
of soda into the water in which they are held. They should not 
be gathered while the sun is shining upon them, but early in the 
morning or after the sun has gone down for an hour. 

FOR THE TOILET. 

For freckles, sunburn or eruptions on the face frequent washing 
with a strong solution of soda is recommended. 

When bathing, ]/, pound to i pound and upwards of soda 
should be dissolved with hot water in the tub. The mild alkali in 
the soda neutralizes the acids coming through the pores. It makes 
the water exceedingly pleasant, and the skin will be as soft as down. 

As a dentifrice for the teeth soda is recommended as it neu- 
tralizes the acids which secrete themselves around the teeth pre- 
venting thus their decaying effect. Use with a brush same as 
tooth-powder or dissolve in water. Try it for toothache. A wad 
of cotton saturated with a strong solution and placed in the tooth 
is recommended. 



MANY USES OF COMMON THINGS. 715 

To clean jewelry, put in a flannel bag with soda and shake 
freely, or let it remain and it will become bright and clean. 

To clean hair brushes and combs, dissolve a tablespoon soda in 
a pan of warm water, dip in the comb and rub it through the 
brush ; then rub the brush-bristles with another brush or with the 
hand ; then place in the sun or by the fire to dry. 

AS A REMEDY. 

For headache or sour stomach the effect of soda is apparent 
instantly, by taking a little dissolved in water. 

When the patient is feverish, wash the skin in warm water 
and soda. 

If an odor arises from excessive perspiration, use i teaspoon 
to I pint hot water. 

If the food distresses the stomach give ^ teaspoon soda in 
I wineglass milk. 

If you wish to keep gruels or milk in the sick-room, put in 
a pinch of soda to keep them sweet. 

After washing out the baby's bottle, let it stand in soda-water 
before using again. 

If your face looks red and shiny in warm weather, bathe it 
in hot water and i teaspoon soda. 

Applications of hot water and soda will cure piles and other 
inflammations of the rectum. 

If the hair smells sour and feverish, wash it in cool (not too 
cool) water, with y^, spoon soda to i quart water. Dry thoroughly 
and rub in a little bay-rum. 

One tablespoon soda in i glass water, used as a gargle and to 
thoroughly rinse the mouth, will prevent gums from ulcerating, 
cure ulcerated ones, and also cure toothache. 

For hives or eczema it gives a most cooling and comfortable 
feeling, relieving the patient almost instantly from the irritating 
itch which always accompanies those maladies. For a good wash 
dissolve i ounce soda in i quart water. 

For burns and scalds make a paste of soda and water ; apply 
and keep wet cloths over it. 



CHEIVIICAL NOMBNCLATURB. 



COMMON NAMES. CHEMICAL NAMES. 

Aqua Fortis Nitric Acid. 

Blue Vitriol Sulphate of Copper. 

Cream of Tartar Bitartrate of Potassium. 

Calomel Chloride of Mercury. 

Chalk Carbonate Calcium. 

Salt of Tartar Carbonate of Potassa. 

Common Salt Chloride of Sodium. 

Copperas, or Green Vitriol Sulphate of Iron. 

Corrosive Sublimate Bi-Chloride of Mercury, 

Diamond Pure Carbon. 

Dry Alum Sulphate AUuminum & Potassium. 

Epsom Salts Sulphate of Magnesia. 

Galena Sulphide of Lead. 

Glauber's Salt Sulphate of Sodium. 

Glucose Grape Sugar. 

Iron Pyrites Bi-Sulphide Iron. 

Laughing Gas Protoxide of Nitrogen. 

Lime Oxide of Calcium. 

Lunar Caustic Nitrate of Silver. 

Nitre or Saltpetre Nitrate of Potash. 

Oil of Vitriol Sulphuric Acid. 

Potash Oxide of Potassium. 

Red Lead Oxide of Lead. 

Rust of Iron Oxide of Iron. 

Salamoniac Muriate of Ammonia. 

Soda Oxide of Sodium. 

Spirits of Hartshorn Ammonia. 

Spirit of Salt Hydro-Chloric, or Muriatic Acid. 

Stucco, or Plaster of Paris Sulphate of Lime. 

Sugar of Lead Acetate of Lead. 

Verdigris Basic Acetate of Copper. 

Vinegar -. Acetic Acid (Diluted). 

Water Oxide of Hydrogen. 

White Vitriol Sulphate of Zinc. 

716 



DICTIONARY OF TKRNIS USKD 
IN COOKINO 



Aspic. — A savory jelly for cold dishes. 

Atelet. — A small silver skewer. 

Au Bleu. — A French term applied to fish boiled in white wine 
with flavors. 

Au Gras. — Dressed with meat gravy. 

Au Gratin. — Dishes prepared with sauce and crumbs and baked. 

Au Jus. — In the natural juice or gravy. 

Au Naturel. — Plain, simple cookery. 

Baba. — Very light plum-cake, or sweet French yeast cake. 

Bain-Marie. — An open vessel which has a loose bottom for the 
reception of hot water. It is used to keep sauces nearly at the 
boiling point without reduction or burning. 

Barde. — A thin slice of bacon fat placed over any substance 
specially requiring the assistance of fat without larding. 

Batterie de Cuisine. — Complete set of cooking apparatus. 

Bavaroise a l'eau. — Tea sweetened with syrup of capillaire, 
and flavored with a little orange-flower water. 

Bavaroise au Lait. — Made in the same way as the above, 
but with equal quantities of milk and tea. 

Bechamel. — A rich white sauce made with stock. 

Beignet or Fritter, — (See Fritter). 

Bisque. — A white soup made of shell-fish. 

Blanc. — White broth used to give a more delicate appearance 
to the flesh of fowl, lamb, etc. 

Blanch. — Placing anything on the fire in cold water until it 
boils, and after straining it off, plunging it into cold water for the 
purpose of rendering it white. Used to whiten poultry, vegeta- 
bles, etc. 

Blanquette. — A fricassee usually made of thin slices of white 
meat, with white sauce thickened with egg yolk. 

Blonde de Veau, — Double veal broth used to enrich soups 
and sauces. 

BOUDIN. — A delicate compound made of quenelle forcemeat 

717 



7l8 DICTIONARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKING. 

BouiLLlE. — A French dish resembling that called hasty pudding. 

Bouillon. — A clear soup, stronger than broth, yet not so 
strong as consoinme, which is still more reduced. 

Bouquet of Herbs. — Parsley, thyme, and green onions tied 
together. 

Bouquet Garni. — The same thing as fagot, which see. 

Bourguignote. — A ragout of truffles. 

Braise. — Meat cooked in a closely-covered stew-pan to prevent 
evaporation, so that the meat retains not only its own juices, but 
those of any other articles, such as bacon, herbs, roots and spice 
put with it. 

Braisiere. — A sauce-pan with ledges to the lid, so that it will 
contain firing. 

Briber. — To truss fowls with a needle and thread. 

Brioche. — A sponge cake similar to Bath buns. 

BuiSSON. — A cluster or bush of small pastry piled on a dish. 

Callipash. — The glutinous portion of the turtle found in the 
upper shell. 

Callipee. — The glutinous meat of the turtle's under shell. 

Cannelons. — Small rolls or collars of mincemeat, or of rice and 
pastry with food. 

Capilotade. — A hash of poultry. 

Casserole. — The form of rice to be filled with a fricassee of 
white meat or a puree of game; also a stew-pan. 

Civet. — A dark, thickish stew of hare or venison. 

COMPIEGNE. — Sweet French yeast cake, with fruit. 

Compote. — Fruits stewed in syrup. There are also compotes 
of small birds. 

Confitures. — Sweetmeats of sugars, fruits, syrups, and essences. 

Consomme. — Strong, clear soup obtained by stewing meat for a 
considerable length of time, or can be made by boiling down bouil- 
lon till very rich. 

CouLIS. — A rich, smooth gravy used for coloring, flavoring and 
thickening certain soups and sauces. 

Croquettes. — A savory mince of fish, meat, or fowl, made 
with a little sauce into various shapes, rolled in egg and bread- 
crumbs, and fried crisp. 

COURONNE, En. — To serve any prescribed articles on a dish in 
the form of a crown. 



DICTIONARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKING. 719 

Croustacles. — Also known as Dresden patties. They are 
composed of mince encased in paste, and moulded into various forms. 

Croustades. — Fried forms of bread to serve minces or other 
meat forms. 

Crouton. — -A sippet of bread fried, and used for garnish. 

Cuisine Masquee. — Highly seasoned or unusually mixed 
dishes. 

CuiSSON. — Method of cooking meats, or the liquor in which 
they have been boiled. 

Dariole. — A sweet pate baked in a mold. 

Daube. — Meat or fowl stewed in sauce. 

Daubiere. — An oval stew-pan. 

Dejeuner A la Fourchette. — Breakfast with meats, wines, 
etc. 

Desosser. — To bone. 

Dorure. — Yolks of eggs well beaten for covering meats and 
other dishes. 

Entree. — A corner or accompanying dish for the first course. 

Entremet. — A side-dish for the second course. 

Escalopes. — Collops. 

EsPAGNOLE. — A rich brown Spanish sauce. 

Fagot. — A small bunch of parsley and thyme tied up with a 
bay-leaf. 

Farce. — Forcemeat. 

Feuilletage. — Puff paste. 

FiNANClERE. — An expensive, highly flavored, mixed ragout. 

Flamber. — To singe fowl or game after picking. 

Flan. — A French custard. 

Flancs. — The side-dishes of large dinners. 

FONCER. — To put in the bottom of a sauce-pan thin slices of 
veal or bacon. 

Fondue. — A light and pleasant preparation of melted cheese. 

Fondant. — Sugar boiled and beaten to a creamy paste. 

Fricandeaux may be made of any boned pieces of veal chiefly 
cut from the thick part of the fillet, and of not more than 2 or 3 
pounds' weight. 

Fricassee. — Chickens, etc., cut in pieces in a white sauce, with 
truffles, mushrooms, etc., as accessories. 



720 DICTIONARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKING. 

Fritter. — Anything encased in a covering of batterer eggs, 
and fried. 

Gateau. — A pudding or baked cake. 

Gauffres. — A light, spongy sort of biscuit. 

Glaze. — Stock boiled down to the thickness of jelly, and used 
to improve the appearance of braised dishes. 

GODIVEAUX. — Various varieties of forcemeat. 

Gras. — With, or of meat ; the reverse of viaigre. 

Gratin. — Au Gratin. — A term applied to certain dishes pre- 
pared with sauce and baked. 

Gratiner. — To cook like a grill. 

Haricot. — So called from the French word for beans, with 
which the dish was originally made. Now understood as any thick 
stew, or ragout of mutton, beef, or veal, cut in pieces, and dressed 
with vegetables and roots. 

HorS-d'ceuvres. — Small dishes of sardines, anchovies, and 
other relishes. 

LarDINIERE. — Vegetables stewed down in their own sauce. 

Lardon. — The piece of bacon used in larding. 

Liaison. — The mixture of egg and cream used to thicken white 
soups, etc. 

Luting. — A paste to fasten lids on pie-pans for preserving game. 

Madelienes. — Small plum cakes. 

Maigre. — Without meat. 

Marinade. — The liquor in which fish or meat is steeped. 

Mask. — To cover meat with any rich sauce, ragout, etc. 

Matelote. — A rich fish stew, with wine. 

Mayonnaise. — Cold sauce, or salad dressing. 

Mazarines, or Turbans. — Ornamental entrees of forcemeat 
and fillets of poultry, game, or fish. 

Menu. — The bill of fare. 

Meringue. — Light pastry made of sugar and the white of eggs 
beaten to " snow." 

Mignonnette Pepper. — Coarsely-ground pepper-corns. 

MiROTON. — Small thin slices of meat about as large as a crown 
piece made into ragouts of various kinds, and dished up in a cir- 
cular form. 



DICTIONARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKING. 72 1 

MOUILLER, — To add broth, water or other Hquid while the 
cooking is proceeding. 

Nougat. — Almond candy. 

NOUILLES. — Strips of paste made of eggs and f^our. 

Panada. — Soaked bread used in the preparation of French force- 
meat. 

Paner. — To cover with bread-crumbs fried or baked food. 

Papillote, En. — The pieces of paper greased with oil and but- 
ter, and fastened round a cutlet, etc., by twisting it along the edge. 

Pate. — A small pie. 

Paupiettes. — Slices of meat rolled. 

Piece de Resistance. — The principal joint of the dinner. 

Pilau. — A dish of meat and rice. 

Piquer. — To lard with strips of bacon fat, etc. 

POELEE. — Stock for boiling turkeys, fowls, vegetables, instead 
of water, so as to render them less insipid. 

POTAGE. — Soup. 

Printaniers. — Early spring vegetables. 

ProfiterOLLES. — Light pastry creamed inside. 

Puree. — The name given to soup, the ingredients for thicken- 
ing which have been passed through a sieve, then thinned with 
broth to the proper consistency. Meat and fish are cooked and 
pounded in a mortar; roots and vegetables are stewed till soft, in 
order to prepare them for being thus converted to a smooth pulp. 

Quenelles. — Forcemeat of various kinds, composed of fish or 
meat, with bread, yolk of egg, and some kind of fat, seasoned in 
different ways, formed with a spoon to an oval shape, then poached 
in stock and used either as garnish to entrees, or to be served 
separately. 

Ragout. — A rich sauce, with sweetbreads, mushrooms, truffles, 
etc., in it. 

Releves. — The remove dishes. 

RiFAClMENTO. — Meat dressed a second time. 

Rissole. — A mince of fish or meat enclosed in paste, or formed 
into balls and other shapes ; used either as side-dishes or garnish 
(see also " Fricassees^ 

ROTI. — Roast meat. 

Roux. — A mixture of butter and flour, used for thickening 
white soups and gravy. 



722 DICTIONARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKING. 

Salmi. — A hash of game, cut up and dressed when only half 
roasted. 

Santon. — To dress with sauce in the sauce-pan by keeping it in 
motion. 

Sauce Piquant. — A sharp sauce in which lemon and vinegar 
predominate as a flavor, 

Saute-PAN. — A thin-bottomed, shallow pan for quick frying. 

Sauter. — To toss over the fire in a saute-pan with a small 
quantity of fat only. 

Serviette, a la. — Served in a napkin. 

Sippets. — Small pieces of bread cut into various shapes, either 
soaked in stock, toasted, or fried, to serve with meats as garnishing 
or borders. 

Souffle. — A light pudding. 

Stock. — The broth of which the soups are made. 

Tamis or " Tammy." — A strainer of fine woollen canvas, used 
for straining soups and sauces. 

Timbale. — A sort of pie made in a mold. 

TOURTE. — A tart baked in a shallow tin. 

Trifle. — A second-course dish, made of sponge cake, maca- 
roons, jams, etc., brandy or wine, and liqueurs. 

Trousser. — To truss a bird. 

Turbans. — (See Mazarines). 

Vanner, To. — To make a sauce smooth by rapidly lifting it 
high in large spoonfuls, and allowing it to fall quickly again for 
some time. 

Veloute. — Rich sauce used to heighten the flavor of soups 
and made dishes. 

VOL-AU-VENT. — A light puff paste, cut round or oval, made into 
patties enclosing any delicate mincemeat. 



I N D EX. 



I. Bread-Making. 

Remarks 1 

YEAST: Potato 2 

A good reliable 2 

Another good . . . . • 6 

Dry hop 6 

Flour 3 

Sponge, direction for 4 

Kneading.... 4 

Baking 5 

BREAD: Milk sponge 7 

Salt rising 7 

Brown (3) 8 

Boston brown 9 

Corn (4) 9 

Famous southern corn 10 

Grandmother's Indian 10 

Graham (2) 10 

Baking powder Graham 10 

Quick Graham 11 

Hoyleton 11 

Norwegian, for dyspeptics 11 

Oat-meal 11 

Rye 12 

Rye and Indian 12 

Rye, with baking-powder 12 

Rice 12 

II. Breakfast and Tea-Cakes. 

Remarks 13 

BISCUIT: Light 13 

Butter 13 

Drop 13 

Dixie 14 

Soda 14 

Squash (2) 14 

Baking-powder 15 

Cream of Tartar 15 

English 15 

Graham 15 

Cocoanut 16 

Baltimore apple bread 16 

BUNS (2); Potato 16 

Easter 17 

Corn cakes (2) 17 

Hominy cakes 17 

Johnny cake 18 

Rich 18 

Newport breakfast cakes 18 

Northumberland cakes 18 

Potato drop cake 19 

Cake 19 

Pocket books 20 



46 



73 



Proverbs 20 

Puffets.. 20 

Rosettes 20 

Pop-overs 21 

Rye drop cakes 21 

Scones 21 

Scotch 21 

Sally Lunn (2) 21, 22 

Sly cake 22 

Tea Cake (2) 22 

Yorkshire 23 

Shortcake, plain 24 

Scotch 24 

Peach 24 

Sweet potato 25 

Baking-powder (4) 25 

FRITTERS. 

FRITTERS: Apple 26 

Blackberry 26 

Beet 26 

Brownies 26 

Fritters, celery 27 

Clam 27 

Green corn (2) 27 

Lobster 27 

Meat 28 

Orange 28 

Oyster 28 

Peach 28 

Parsnip 29 

Rice 29 

GEMS. 

GEMS: Corn 29 

Cold water 29' 

Plain Graham 30' 

Graham (3) 29, 30" 

Hominy 30 

Mixed 30 

Oat-meal 31 

GRIDDLE cakes. 

Remarks 31 

GRIDDLE CAKES: Buckwheat (3) 31, 32 

Corn-meal 32 

Green corn 32 

Graham 33 

Genoa 33 

Mince 33 

Mush.. .. , 34 

Oat 34 

Rye 34 

Rice , 34 

Sweet 35 

I 



732 



INDEX. 



Cream pancakes . . . 
Dixie corn dodgers. 

Egg corn cakes 

Flannel cakes 

Hominy cakes 

Pea Pancakes 

Raisin Spirals 

Sauce for pancakes. 
Table syrup (2) 



MUFFINS: Baking-powder. 

Buttermilk 

Corn-meal 

Entire wheat 

Graham (2) 

Lunch 

(2) 

Potato and corn 

Rice 

Rye 

White 



.36, 



MUSH. 

MUSH: How to make 

Corn 

Cracked wheat (2) 

Fried for breakfast 

Oat-meal 

Hominy 

Oat-meal, how to cook 

Porridge, fried Indian meal. 



PUFFS: Almond.. 

Cream (3) 

Corn-meal 

Graham 

German 

Hasty 

Oat-meal 

Potato 

Tea 

Lemon Turnovers. 



.40, 



32 
32 
33 
83 
33 
34 
34 
35 
35 



36 
36 
36 
36 
37 
37 
37 
37 
37 
37 
38 

38 
38 
38 
89 
39 
39 
39 
39 

40 
41 
41 
41 
41 
42 
42 
42 
42 
42 



ROLLS: How to make. 

Cinnamon 

Egg 

French 

Graham breakfast. 

Kentucky 

Oat-meal 

Parker house 

Potato 

Tremont house. . . . 

Tea 

Vienna twist 

White mountain. , 



43 
43 
43 
43 
44 
44 
44 
44 
44 
45 
45 
45 
46 



RUSKS. 

RUSKS: Old-fashioned sweet (2) 46 

Without eggs 47 

With 2 eggs 47 

Sweet 47 

SANDWICHES. 

SANDWICHES: Egg 47 

Ham 48 

Lunch 48 

Mixed 48 

Oyster 48 

Pinard 48 

Potted rabbit ,. .. 49 

School lunch 49 

Tongue 49 

Sardine 49 

Salad 49 

TOAST. 

TOAST. Asparagus on 50 

Bombay 50 

Breakfast 50 

Cream 50 

Cheese and egg 51 

German 51 

Ham 51 

Lemon 51 

Mushrooms and (2) 51, 52 

Oysters with 52 

Quail on 52 

Tongue 52 

Fried bread 51 

Toasted crackers 53 

WAFFLES. 

Remarks 53 

WAFFLES: Bread 53 

Rice (2) 53, 54 

(4) 54 

WAFERS: Graham 54 

Sweet 55 

Tea Lemon 55 

III. Cake-Making. 

Rules for mixing 56 

CAKE: Ornamentation 57 

Almond (3) 57, 58 

Almond cream 58 

Adelaide 59 

Ambrosia '• 59 

Apple 59 

ANGEL'S FOOD 59 

Pan for baking 60 

Cake, bricks 60 

Mollie's bride 60 

Bread 61 

Black 61 



INDEX. 



733 



CAKE — Continued. 

Bridgeport 61 

Butternut 61 

Caramel (3) 61, 62 

Chocolate (2) 62, 63 

Marbled chocolate 63 

Charlotte cachee 62 

Chocolate eclaires 63 

Cake, cinnamon 64 

Citron 64 

Clove 64 

Confectionery 64 

Cocoanut 65 

Cocoanut cream 65 

Coffee (3) 65, 66 

Corn-starch (2) 66 

Cream 67 

Cream, sour 67 

Christmas 67 

Rich cup 67 

Plain Cup 68 

Delicate (8) 68 

Delicious 68 

Drop 68 

Dough 69 

Dover 69 

Dundee 69 

Eggless dried apple 69 

Eggless(2) 69 

Election 70 

English walnut 70 

Fruit (6) 70, 71 

" Black 71 

" From dough 71 

" And nut 71 

" White (2) 72 

Fig (3) 72 

' Pound 73 

Feather (2) 73 

Gentleman's Favorite 73 

Gold (2) 73, 74 

Grooms 74 

Ginger drop 74 

" Pound 74 

Gingerbread (2) 75 

Delicious 75 

Soft 75 

Loaf 75 

Alum 76 

Excellent 76 

Cake, ginger cup 75 

Drop 75 

Graham cup 76 

Hancock 76 

Hickory-nut (4) 77 

Drop 77 

Huckleberry 78 

Honey 78 



CAKE — Continued. 

Imperial 78 

Ice cream (2) 78, 79 

Jelly 79 

Jelly rolls 79 

Kaffee Kuchen 79 

Cake, Jenny Lind 79 

Kelly Island 80 

Kentucky 80 

Knickerbocker 80 

Lady's 80 

" (Gold) 81 

Lemon (3) 81 

" Jelly 81 

Light 81 

Lunch 82 

Loaf 82 

Lady fingers 82 

Marbled 82 

Minnehaha 83 

Cheap 83 

Mountain 83 

White 83 

Soft molasses, eggless 84 

Molasses (2) 84 

Morton farm, eggless 84 

Molasses buns 84 

Cake, nut (2) 85 

" White 85 

Neapolitan 85 

New Year's 86 

Orange (3) 86, 87 

Peach 87 

Perfection 87 

Pork 87 

Pinafore 88 

Pink and white layer 88 

Portuguese 88 

Puff 89 

Pearl 89 

Pine-apple 89 

Plum 89 

Pound 89 

" Cocoanut 89 

" Citron 90 

" Mollie's 90 

" White 90 

Queen 90 

Quincy 90 

Raisin 90 

Reception 91 

Rice 91 

Rose 91 

Rochester jelly 91 

Spanish buns (2) 91, 93 

Cake, sponge, with hot water 93 

93 

" Delicious 39 



734 



INDEX. 



CAKE— Continued. 

Sponge, Roll »^ 

White »*> 

Spice II 

Silver • • »^ 

Snow (3) 93,94 

" Drift 94 

Scotch 94 



Swiss 

Seed 

Strawberry 

Sultana ■ 

Tea 

" Delicate 

Tutti frutti 

Tip top 

Tunbridge 

Universal. . . 

Van Buren 

Vanilla (2) 

Vanity... ^^ 

Watermelon ^' 

Washington ■^]^ 

Wedding (2) 98 99 

Tin 100 

Walnut 100 



Webster. 



.100 



101 
,102 

.102 



White (3) 101 

" Perfection 101 

Yule 

Zucker kuchen 

ICINGS. 

Remarks 

ICING; Almond 10-^ 

Boiled (2) 102.103 

Caramel 103 

Common 103 

Chocolate (3) 104 

Clear 104 

For cakes 104 

Without egg (2) 105 

Lemon or orange 105 

Ornamental 105 

Yellow 106 

Chocolate glace 103 

Filling 104 

Rose Coloring |^o 

Tutti frutti frosting 105 



COOKIES, JUMBLES AND SNAPS. 

COOKIES: (3) 106, 107 

Almond 106 

Caraway 10 ' 

Cocoanut(3) 107 

Cream 107 

Currant 108 

Eggless(3) 108 

Ginger (3) 108 



COOKIES— Continued. 

Graham 10^ 

Hickory-nut 109 

Molasses (2) 109 

Nutmeg 109 

New Year's 109 

Sugar 110 

Neapolitans 109 

Sand tarts HO 

JUMBLES: (2) HO 

Cocoanut HO 

Nut 110 

SNAPS: Ginger (4) .111 

Lemon HI 

DOUGHNUTS: (2) HI 

The boss 113 

Cream H2 

Raised H2 

Without eggs H2 

Fried cakes (2) 112 

Crullers (4) 113 

Snow balls, white 113 

IV. Confectionery. 

General directions H4 

ALMOND: Candy H4 

Creams ' H4 

Bachelor buttons H4 

Bon-bons 114 

Butter Scotch (2) 115 

Boston caramels ■ • • -US 

COCOANUT: Candy 115 

Bon bons 115 

Candy, cream 116 

Caramels H6 

Corn candy H6 

Corn-starch rateffes H6 

CHOCOLATE: Caramels 116, 117 

Creams H''' 

Kisses H''' 

Candied fruit, how prepared 117 

Fruit glace H" 

DELICIOUS: Confections H8 

Chocolate creams H8 

Stuffed figs and dates 119 

Concealed almonds and cream nuts 119 

Tutti frutti H 9 

Fruit candy H" 

FRENCH : Candy 119 

To make the paste H9 

Chocolate creams 120 

Fruits '|20 

Jim crows 121 

Hickory-nut candy 123 

Horehound candy 122 

LEMON-CREAM: Candy 123 

And peppermint candy 128 

Meringues 13<' 



INDEX. 



735 



Meringues, cream 123 

MACAROONS: (2) 124 

Chocolate 124 

Marsh mallows 124 

Maple candy 125 

MOLASSES CANDY: 125 

White 125 

Nuts, to candy 125 

Peanut candy 125 

Pop-corn balls 126 

Sugar candy 126 

Salted almonds 126 

TAFFY: 126 

Efferton 127 

Trifles, filbert 127 

Vanilla caramels 127 

Vinegar candy 137 

Walnut candy 127 

V. Creams and Custards. 

APPLE: Float ....128 

Snow 128 

BLANCMANGE: Almond 130 

Chocolate 130 

Cornstarch 131 

Fruit 131 

CREAM: Almond 128 

Coffee, Bavarian 129 

Chocolate " 129 

Strawberry " 130 

Caledonian 131 

A la mode 132 

Chocolate 133 

Mottled 133 

Genoese 183 

Italian 134 

Manioca 134 

Russ 134 

Rock 135 

Spanish 135 

Tapioca (2) 135 

Velvet (2) 136 

Whipped (2) 136 

Sauce for 137 

Raspberry 1 37 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE: Elegante. .. .131 

(3) 132 

Fruit 132 

CUSTARD: Almond (3) 129, 137 

Apple 138 

Boiled 138 

Baked 138 

Chocolate 138 

Cocoanut (2) 138, 1 39 

Caramel 139 

Cup 139 

Without eggs 139 

Lemon 139 



CUSTARD— Continued. 

Jelly 141 

Quaking 142 

Floating island (2) 140 

j Irish moss 140 

Moonshine 141 

ORANGE: Froth 134 

i Snow 141 

Souffle 141 

Prune whip 142 

Tapioca ice 135 

VI. Dainty Dishes and the 
Chafing Dish. 

Almond pasties 143 

APPLE: Croutes 143 

Farcies 143 

Golden 143 

CHEESE: Baked 144 

Cakes , 144 

Straws 144 

DESSERT: A desirable 144 

A delicious 145 

A simple 145 

EGG. Balls 145 

Brouille 145 

Fairy corn-starch 146 

Florentines 146 

Itish rock 146 

LEMON- Sponge 146 

Jelly 147 

Macaroni rarebit 148 

ORANGE: Sponge 147 

Cocoanut 148 

Hash 148 

Tart 148 

Peach, sponge 147 

Pine-apple, sponge 147 

Strawberry cream tarts 150 

TRIFLE: A 1.^0 

Gooseberry 149 

Grape 149 

Lemon 149 

Raspberry 149 

Whipped Syllabubs 150 

THE CHAFING DISH. 

Introduction 151 

Bread Saute 151 

Anchovy toast 151 

Strawberry cakes 152 

Orange souffle 1 52 

EGGS: Poached 1 52 

Cutlets 152 

Welsh rarebit (2) 153 

Chops 1 58 

BEEF: Dried 153 

Salmi of ■. , .153 



736 



INDEX. 



Kidney with eggs 154 

Salmi of prairie chicken 154 

Stewed reed birds 154 

CHICKEN: Blanquette of 154 

Creamed 154 

Turkey Hash 155 

Fried Shad 155 

Smelts 155 

Brook trout 155 

Crabs a la Creole 155 

LOBSTER: Creamed 156 

Curry of 156 

Deviled 156 

^ /a Newberg 156 

OYSTERS: Curried 156 

Deviled 157 

Maitre d' hotel 157 

A la Newberg 157 

Corn Fritters 157 

Macaroni with mushrooms 157 

French pease 158 

Creamed potatoes 158 

TOMATOES, canned 158 

With mustard sauce 158 

VII. Desserts. 

PASTE: Puff 159 

With beef suet 160 

Good common 160 

Graham 160 

Suet, to use 160 

Tart crust 161 

PIE CRUST: 161 

Glace 161 

Pastry, icing 16'^ 

PIE: Apricot 162 

Apple 162 

" Custard 162 

" Or peach meringue 162 

" Dried 163 

" Stewed 163 

Boiled cider 163 

Banana 163 

Blackberry 163 

Cracker, or mock mince 164 

Chocolate 164 

Cocoanut (2) 164 

Currant, green 165 

Ripe 165 

Cherry , 165 

Cream (3) 165, 166 

" Whipped 166 

Crumb 166 

Custard (2) 166 

" Jelly 167 



PIE— Continued. 

Delicate 167 

Fruit 167 

Gateau St. Honore 167 

Jelly 168 

Lemon 168 

" Mock 168 

Mince meat (5) 168, 169, 170 

Pie, Marlborough 170 

Orange (2) 170,171 

Peach 171 

" Cream 171 

Pine-apple 171 

Potato 171 

" Sweet (2) 172 

Prune 172 

Pumpkin 172 

Quince 173 

Raisin 173 

Raspberry cream 173 

Rice 173 

Rhubarb 173 

Squash 174 

Vinegar 174 

TARTS: 174 

Cocoanut 174 

Chocolate 175 

Orange 175 

Bombes au riz 175 

PUDDINGS. 

General directions 176 

Hints to housekeepers 176 

PUDDING: Almond (2) 177 

Amber 178 

Arrowroot 178 

Apple (2) 178, 179 

" Baked 179 

" Dutch 179 

Ambrosia 180 

APPLE: Jonathan 180 

Stewed 180 

Charlotte 181 

Dumplings 181 

With rice 181 

Pudding, apple and tapioca 180 

Asparagus 181 

Banana 182 

Bread and fruit 182 

'« 182 

Black 182 

Brown 183 

Bird's-nest (2) 183 

Boiled 183 

Banana and apple tart 183 



INDEX. 



737 



BETTY: Brown 183 

Peach 184 

Oatmeal brown 184 

Baba 184 

PUDDING: cream batter 184 

Custard bread 185 

Cabinet 185 

" Frozen 185 

Cassava 186 

Cerealine 186 

Cracker 186 

Chocolate (3) 187 

" Meringue 187 

Charlotte 187 

Cottage 187 

'• Fruit 187 

Cocoanut (2) 188 

Cream 188 

" And rice 188 

Cream 188 

Corn-starch (2) 189 

Cherry (2) 189 

Cup 190 

Currant 190 

Croquettes of rice 190 

Pudding, Danish 191 

Delmonico 191 

Date 191 

Down-east 191 

Dyspeptic 192 

Eglantine 192 

Egg 192 

English-eggless 192 

Eve's 192 

Fis(2) 192, 193 

Fanna 193 

Four fruit 193 

Fruit (2) 193 

" Dried, with rice 194 

Florentine 194 

Gelatine 194 

Ginger 194 

Graham 195 

Green corn 195 

German puffs 195 

Hen's nest 196 

Huckleberry roly-poly 196 

Pudding, huckleberry 196 

Honey 196 

Hominy 196 

Incomparable 197 

Indian 197 

" Delicate 197 

Telly 197 

Jam 198 

Kiss 198 



PUDDING— Continued, 

Lemon (3) 198, 199 

Malagan 199 

Mitchell 199 

Minute 199 

Marrow 199 

Nesselrode 200 

Orange (3) 200 

Paris 203 

Peach 204 

Pease 201 

Plum (2) 201, 202 

" Baked 202 

" Christmas 203 

" English 202 

Poor man's 203 

Prune 204 

Queen 204 

Jelly rice 198 

Orange charlotte 201 

Prune whip 203 

Peach cobbler 204 

Rice, boiled, with sweet sauce 205 

Roly-poly 206 

Rhubarb mold 206 

Raisin Puffs 206 

Pudding, pine-apple 205 

Rice (2) 205 

Silver and gold 206 

Sago 207 

Snow 207 

Steamed (2) 208 

Suet 208 

STRAWBERRY: Sponge 208 

Shortcake (2) 208, 209 

Peach tapioca 209 

Pudding, " 209 

" Cream 210 

Transparent 210 

Tip-top , 210 

Vermicelli 210 

Vegetable 211 

White 211 

Yankee 211 

PUDDING SAUCES. 

SAUCE: Apricot 211 

Arrowroot 212 

Cheap 213 

Foaming 213 

German 213 

" Custard 213 

Hard 213 

Lemon „ 214 

Molasses 214 



738 



INDEX. 



SAUCE— Continued. 

Pudding (3) 214 

Plain 215 

Strawberry 215 

Transparent 215 

Whipped cream 215 



VIII. Drinks. 

COFFEE: 216 

Substitutes 216 

Novel mode of making 217 

With whipped cream 217 

For one hundred 217 

TEA: 218 

Iced 219 

Chocolate 219 

COCOA: To make 219 

Nibs 220 

Broma 220 

BEER: Cottage 220 

Ginger 220 

Spruce 221 

Buttermilk 221 

Cordial, blackberry 221 

DRINK: Ginger 221 

Cream of tarter 222 

Jelly 223 

Pine-apple 224 

Fruit cup 222 

LEMONADE: Telly 222 

" , 223 

Powder 223 

Mead 223 

SYRUP: Orange 223 

Strawberry 224 

Shrub, cherry 224 

Sherbet, berry 224 

Vinegar, raspberry 225 

Wines, unfermented 225 



IX. Eggs and Omelettes. 

EGGS: To boil 226 

To bake 226 

To fry 226 

To poach 227 

Pickled 227 

Scrambled 227 

Stuffed 228 

Scotch 228 

Scalloped 228 

Breaded 228 

Baskets 229 

And cheese 229 



EGGS— Continued. 

On foam 229 

Surleplat 229 

A la bonne femme .230 

OMELETTE: 230 

Apple 230 

Baked 231 

Beef 231 

Cheese 231 

Chicken 231 

Corn 231 

Fish 231 

French 232 

Ham 233 

Jelly 233 

Oyster 233 

Savory 333 

PRESERVING EGGS. 

To preserve eggs for winter use 233 

English method 333 

Method for home use 333 

X. Fruits and Fruit Dishes. 

Ambrosia 334 

Apples, grapes and pears 234 

Bananas and cream 234 

Blackberries and cream 3S4 

Grapes, to keep 234 

Melons 235 

Oranges 235 

Peaches and cream 235 

Pine-apples 235 

Strawberries, Italian 235 

fruit sauces. 

APPLES: Acid of 236 

Dainties.... 236 

Sauce ... .236 

Jellied baked 236 

A nice way to prepare 237 

How to treat tasteless early 237 

Preserved, for tea 237 

Bananas, fried 237 

Cranberry sauce 237 

CHERRIES: Candied 238 

Glace 238 

Fruit, to crystallize 238 

Damsons, compote of 238 

Peaches, a compote of 239 

Prunes, stewed 239 

PEARS: Baked 239 

Stewed 339 



INDEX. 



739 



CANNED FRUIT. 

Remarks 240 

Table for canning fruit 240 

CANNED: Apple sauce 241 

Sweet corn 241 

Berries 242 

Grapes and elderberries 242 

Plums 242 

Pears 242 

Peaches 243 

Pine-apples , . ^ 244 

Strawberries 244 

Prepared pears 242 

Dried peaches 243 

To bottle raspberries .244 

JAMS AND JELLIES. 

Directions 245 

JAM: Apple * 245 

Apricot 245 

Berry or currant 246 

Gooseberry or plum 246 

Grape 246 

Peach 246 

Pine-apple (2) 247 

Rhubarb 247 

JELLY: Apple 247 

Blackberry 247 

Cranberry (2) 248 

Crab-apple 248 

Currant 248 

Four-fruit 249 

Grape 249 

Peach 250 

Pie-plant 250 

Plum 250 

Quince (2) 250, 251 

Moldiness 251 

To test jelly 251 

GELATINE JELLIES. 

JELLY: Coffee 251 

Cider 252 

Lemon snow. . . . ; 352 

Orange 252 

Pine-apple 252 

Strawberry 253 

MARMALADES AND BUTTERS. 

BUTTER: Apple 253 

Cherry 253 

Lemon 254 

Peach 254 



BUTTER— Continued. 

Pie-plant 254 

Plum 254 

MARMALADE: Apple 254 

Orange 255 

Peach 255 

Pine-apple 255 

Plum 256 

Pumpkin 256 

Quince 256 

Quince cheese 256 

PRESERVES. 

PRESERVES: Apple 257 

Apricot 257 

Citron (2) 257 

Currant 258 

Goosebeny 258 

Orange 258 

Brandied cherries or berries 258 

Brandy peaches '-^00 

PRESERVES: Pine-apple 259 

Plum or cherry 259 

Purple plum 259 

Pear 260 

Peach 260 

Persimmon 260 

Quince 261 

Strawberry 261 

Green tomato 261 

Ripe tomato 262 

Candied lemon peel 262 

SPICED FRUITS. 

SPICED: Blackberries 262 

Currants 263 

Gooseberries 263 

Grapes 263 

Peaches 263 

Plums (2) 263, 264 

Nutmeg melon 264 

. XL Fish and Shell Fish. 

Remarks 265 

FISH: Baked 265 

Broiled 266 

Boiled 267 

Court bouillon 267 

Fish, fried 268 

Stewed 268 

Scalloped 269 

Cakes 269 

Chowder 270 



740 



INDEX. 



FISH— Continued. 

Pickled 270 

Pie 270 

Potted 270 

Pudding 271 

Catfish 271 

Bloater, scalloped 271 

CODFISH: Broiled salt 271 

Balls 272 

Boiled, with lobster sauce 272 

Dropped fish balls 272 

Codfish, casserole of 273 

Matelote of 273 

Cold boiled fish, a la vinaigrette 273 

EELS: Fried 274 

Patties 274 

Potted 274 

A la tartare 275 

Flounders 275 

HALIBUT: Broiled 275 

Broiled, with maitre d'hotel butter. . .275 

Baked 276 

Escaloped 276 

HADDOCK: Baked 276 

Stewed 276 

MACKEREL: Balls 277 

Salt 277 

" Boiled 277 

" Baked 277 

" Fried 278 

Fresh, boiled 278 

SALMON: 278 

Balls 278 

Croquettes 278 

Scallops 279 

SHAD: Baked 279 

Roe 279 

Shrimps, fried 279 

Smelts, a pretty way to serve 279 

Sturgeon 280 

Trout, brook, fried 280 

WHITE FISH: Baked 280 

Boiled 281 

SHELL FISH. 

CLAMS: 281 

Baked 281 

Chowder 282 

Fritters 282 

Fried 282 

Pie 282 

Stew 283 

CRABS: 283 

Soft 283 

Croquettes 284 



CRABS — Continued. 

Deviled 284 

Escaloped 284 

Frogs 285 

LOBSTER: Boiled 285 

Broiled 285 

En brochette 285 

Croquettes 286 

Fried 286 

Gratin of 286 

Patties 286 

Rissoles 287 

To pot 287 

Little pigs in blankets 287 

Oysters on the half-shell 287 

" Baked 288 

On a block of ice 288 

Broiled 289 

Croquettes 289 

Cream 289 

Deviled on the half-shell 289 

Escaloped 290 

Flavor 290 

Fricasseed 290 

Fried (2) 291 

Patties (2) 291, 292 

Pickled 293 

And chicken pie 292 

Pie 293 

Pot-pie 293 

Panned 293 

Roasted 293 

A la poulette 294 

Soup (see "Soups ") 294 

Steamed 294 

On the half-shell 294 

Stew, with milk 294 

Toast 294 

Park Row 295 

Sauce (see "Sauces") 295 

New way of preparing 295 

Terrapins, or water turtles 295 

Green turtle soup (see "Soups") 296 

Forcemeats and stuffing (see "Meals"). . .296 

XII. Game. 

Game, to select 297 

BIRDS: To pot 298 

Reed 298 

" A la Lindenthorpe 298 

CHICKEN: Prairie 299 

" Roast 299 

DUCK: Roast wild 299 

Canvass-back 300 

Goose, wild 300 



INDEX. 



741 



Game pie 300 

Partridges, etc., to roast 301 

PIGEON: Pie 301 

Roast 301 

Quail, broiled 301 

Woodcock 302 

Bear meat 303 

Coon, roast 303 

Possum 303 

RABBIT: Fried 304 

Roast 304 

With herbs 305 

Pie 305 

SQUIRRELS: Broiled 305 

Brunswick stew 305 

VENISON: Haunch of 303 

Epicurean 306 

Patties 306 



XIII. Ice Creams, Ices and Frozen 
Fruits. 

General directions 307 

ICE CREAM: Almond 308 

Apricot 308 

Banana 309 

Berry 309 

Burnt almond and orange-ice 309 

Caramel (2) 310 

Biscuits, glaces (2) 310 

Cafe parfait 311 

Ice cream, chocolate 311 

Cocoanut 311 

Coffee all 

Eggless. 311 

Orange or lemon 313 

Peach 313 

Pine-apple 313 

Pistachio 313 

Tutti frutti 312 

Vanilla 313 

Walnut 313 

CUSTARD: Frozen rice 313 

" Sago 313 

" Tapioca 313 

ICE: Apple 314 

Cheriy, with nut cream 314 

Currant 314 

Lemon 315 

Orange 315 

Strawberry 315 

Gelatine paste for ornamenting 315 

To color 315 

FROZEN: Apricots 316 

Bananas 316 



FROZEN— Continued. 

Peaches 316 

Raspberries 316 

Strawberries 316 

XIV. Mushrooms. 

MUSHROOMS: 318 

Au gratin 318 

A la provincale 319 

" Creme 319 

Baked 319 

Broiled 319 

Breakfast 319 

En croquettes 320 

Fried 320 

Curried 320 

En caisse 320 

Catsup 320 

En ragout 321 

With bacon 321 

Stems ■ 321 

To stew 323 

To pot 323 

To pickle (2) 322, 323 

Stuffed 323 

Loaf 323 

On toast 323 

XV, Meats. 

Boiling 324 

Broiling 324 

Roasting 325 

SECTIONS OF calf 325 

Bullock 326 

Sheep and lamb 227 

Aitchbone, to carve 327 

Brisket, " 327 

Sirloin, " 328 

Leg of mutton 339 

Meats and their accompaniments 329 

BEEFSTEAK: Making tough tender.. .330 

Broiled 330 

Fried 331 

Boston 331 

And mushrooms 331 

With oyster sauce 331 

Smothered with onions 333 

Pie 332 

" And pudding 333 

Pudding 333 

BEEF: Smothered with tomatoes 333 

Boiled corned 333 

Boiled flank of 334 

Balls 334 



742 



INDEX. 



ROAST: Pot 334 

Boiled rib 335 

Beef, with Yorkshire pudding 335 

Beef, fillet of 335 

" With mushrooms 336 

A la mode 336 

Brisket of, stewed 337 

Pressed 337 

Spiced 337 

Dried, in cream 338 

Frizzled 338 

Potted 338 

Heart 3J9 

TONGUE: Boiled 339 

Pressed .339 

Baked 340 

Cheese 340 

TRIPE: To boil 340 

Fried in batter 841 

A la Lyonnaise, with tomatoes 341 

Kidneys, beef 341 

LIVER: Broiled 341 

Fried 341 

Ragout of 341 

VFAL: Braised 342 

Collared breast of 343 

Roasted breast of 343 

Chops 343 

Collops 343 

Cutlets, Fried 343 

" Broiled 344 

Fillet of, boiled 344 

Roast 344 

Fricasseed 345 

Fricandeau of 345 

CALF'S head, boiled 345 

Brains a la ravigote 346 

Head cheese. 346 

Liver, roasted 346 

Heart, roasted 347 

" Fried 347 

Liver, stewed 347 

Veal, loaf 347 

And ham pie 348 

Olives 348 

Pot-pie 348 

SWEETBREADS: 349 

Stewed 349 

And cauliflower 349 

Tomato 350 

Vol au vent of 350 

LAMB: Chops, broiled 350 

" Fried 351 

Cutlets 351 

Roast, quarter of '. 351 

Fricassee of 351 



LAMB— Continued. 

Breast of, with asparagus 353 

Pie 353 

Saddle of 352 

Stewed, with green pease 353 

Sweetbreads, with tomato sauce 353 

MUTTON: Boiled leg of 353 

" Breast of 353 

Breast of, with pease 354 

Chops and potatoes, baked 354 

" Broiled 355 

" Fried 355 

" Broiled, au Francais 355 

Curry of 855 

Cutlets, with provincale sauce 356 

" A la minute 356 

" And puree of potatoes 356 

Leg of, with caper sauce 357 

Haunch of, a la venison 357 

Larded shoulder of 357 

Roast, stuffed 357 

Tongue, with tomatoes 358 

Muttonettes 358 

Heart, sheep's, baked 858 

Haggis, Scotch 858 

Poik 359 

To cook 360 

Belly, rolled and boiled 360 

Brawn 860 

And beans 361 

Chops, fried 361 

" Broiled 363 

Cutlets, fried 863 

Leg of, good as goose. 863 

" Boiled, with pease pudding. .363 

Roast loin of 363 

Pies 363 

Pot-pies 364 

And cabbage 364 

Baked with apples 364 

With pease 365 

Salt, with pig's liver 365 

" Grilled 365 

Spare-rib, roast (2) 364 

Pig, baked 365 

PIG'S FEET: Pickled 365 

Pressed 366 

Jowl, with spinach 366 

Head cheese 366 

HAM: To glaze 866 

Baked 367 

Boiled 367 

Boned 367 

And eggs (2) 368 

Tortilla 368 

Frizzled 368 



INDEX. 



743 



HAM .—Continued. 

And liver 369 

Scrapple 3G9 

SAUSAGE: Baked 369 

Croquettes 370 

Rolls 370 

COLD MEAT COOKERY. 

Remarks 370 

Fricandelles 370 

Cold roast beef and onions 370 

Croquettes of cold beef or mutton 371 

Cold beef's heart 371 

Cold-dinner beef 371 

Devils 371 

Corned beef pie. ... . . .372 

BEEF: au gratin 372 

Croquettes 372 

HASH: 373 

English 373 

Spiced relish 373 

MUTTON: cold boiled 373 

Or veal, minced 374 

Cold, to warm over 374 

Scalloped 374 

Pudding 374 

Pie 375 

" And tomatoes 375 

Pork cake 375 

Curry of cold white meat 375 

VEAL: bubble and squeak 37G 

Cake 376 

Croquettes 376 

Patties, cold t 377 

Scallop 377 

Calf's head, terrapin style 376 

Croquettes of odds and ends 377 

Ham balls 378 

Fricassee of cold boiled meat 378 

Salmi of tongue, with tomato sauce 378 

French stew 378 

Economical dish 378 

Cold meat loaf 379 

Toad-in-the-hole 379 

FORCEMEATS AND STUFFINGS. 

FORCEMEAT: Almond 379 

Balls 379 

Chestnut 380 

For fish 380 

" Game 380 

Mushroom 380 

Oyster 381 

For turkeys 381 



STUFFING: Apple 381 

Chestnut 381 

Plain 382 

Potato 382 

With sage and onicn 383 

GRAVIES. 

Remarks 383 

How to brown flour 383 

Hot spice 383 

GRAVY: 383 

Without milk 384 

For fowls 384 

Milk 384 

For turkey 384 

TO KEEP AND CURE MEATS. 

Curing meat 384 

Rendering lard 386 

Suet 386 

Pork, to keep fresh in summer 386 

Meat, to keep fresh in summer 387 

Beef, for winter or present use 387 

Hams, to cure ... .387 

SAUSAGE: To make 388 

Beef 388 

Spiced corned beef 388 

Head cheese 388 

XVI. Poultry. 

Poultry, to clean and truss 389 

Chicken saute, a la Marengo 390 

Fowl, roast, to carve 391 

Goose, " " 393 

Turkey, to carve 393 

CHICKEN: Baked 393 

Braised 393 

Breaded 393 

Broiled 393 

Curry 394 

Escaloped 394 

Fried 394 

Fricasseed 395 

Jellied 395 

Loaf 395 

And macaroni 395 

A la matelote 396 

Potted 396 

Melange pie 396 

Pot-pie 397 

Pie 397 

Pressed 398 

Pudding 398 



744 



INDEX. 



CHICKEN— Continued. 

Stewed 398 

And rice 398 

Salad 399 

DUCKS : Braised 399 

A la Francaise 399 

Fricasseed 399 

Ala mode 399 

Roast 400 

Stewed 400 

GOOSE: To boil 401 

Roast (2) 401 

TURKEY: Boned (2) 402, 404 

Boiled 404 

Roast ^2) 405 

" With chestnut stuffing 406 

Potted 406 

COLD POULTRY DISHES. 

CHICKEN: Croquettes of 407 

Hash 407 

Rissoles 407 

Patties 408 

Minced fowls 408 

TURKEY: Fried 408 

Hashed 408 

Scallop 409 

Warmed over 409 

XVII. Pickles. 

Hints 410 

PICKLED artichokes 410 

Butternuts and walnuts 410 

Beans 411 

Beets 411 

Brocoli 411 

Bottled pickles 411 

Pickled cucumbers (2) 412 

Green 413 

Cabbage (2) 413, 414 

Cauliflower (2) 414 

Cherries 415 

Cucumbers in brine 413 

Chow-chow (3) 414, 415 

PICKLES: To harden 414 

French 415 

Mixed (2) 416 

Lemon 416 

MANGOES. (2) 416, 417 

Peach 417 

Pickled nasturtiums 417 

Onions (2) 417 

Picalilli 418 

Picklette 418 



Peppers, stuffed 418 

Pickled tomatoes 419 

Green 419 

Tomatoes, to keep whole 419 

Green tomato soy 419 

SWEET PICKLES. 

PICKLES: Sweet 419 

Sweet apple 420 

Dried apple — very nice 420 

Crab apple 420 

Blackberry 420 

Sweet cauliflower 421 

Ripe cucumber 421 

Grape (2) 421 

Melons 421 

Peach 423 

Plum 423 

Strawberry 433 

Raisin 423 

Sweet tomato 423 

Ripe " 423 

Watermelon 433 

VINEGAR. 

VINEGAR: Cheap 424 

Clover 424 

home-made table 424 

Mint 424 

Orange 425 

Spiced (3) 425 

Tarragon 435 

XVIII. Salads. 

Remarks 426 

SALAD: Anchovy 426 

Apple and celery 426 

Asparagus . . .426 

Of beans 427 

Baked beans 427 

Beet (2) 427 

Banana 427 

Cabbage 427 

Red and celery 428 

Cauliflower 438 

Cucumber 428 

Celery 428 

Chicken (2) 429 

Crab 439 

Dandelion 429 

Egg (2) 430 

Fruit 430 

Fish 430 

Game 430 



INDEX. 



745 



SALAD— Continued. 

German 431 

Ham 431 

Lettuce (3) 431 

" And tomato 433 

Lobster (2) 433 

Orange 433 

Ovster 433 

Potato (3) 433 

Salmon 433 

Sardine 433 

Shrimp (2; 434 

Summer 434 

Tomato 434 

" With water-cress 435 

Veal 435 

Water-cress 435 

SALAD DRESSINGS. 

DRESSING: Bacon 486 

French, plain 436 

Mayonnaise 436 

Aspic 437 

Green 487 

Red 437 

Salad (3) 435,437 

" Cream 437' 

" Sour 438 

Sardine 438 

XIX. Sauces and Catsups. 

CATSUP: Currant 489 

Cucumber (2) 439 

Gooseberry 439 

Grape 440 

Green pepper 440 

Mushroom (see "Jlltis/irooms") 440 

Plain 440 

Tomato (3) 440, 441 

" Without vinegar 441 

Walnut 443 

sauces. 

Aspic Jell" 443 

SAUCE: Asparagus 443 

Anchovy, 443 

Bechamel 443 

Bread 443 

Brown 444 

Butter 444 

Caper 444 

Cauliflower 444 

Celery. 445 



SAUCE — Continued. 

Chili (2) 445 

Cream 445 

Cucumber 445 

Grated cucumbers 445 

Chutnee 446 

Curry powder 446 

Sauce, cranberry 446 

Egg (3) 446 

Fish (3) 447 

IloUandaise 447 

Hot sour apple 447 

Hot, for meats 448 

Horse-radish 448 

Italian 448 

Lobster 448 

Mint 448 

Mushroom, brown 449 

White 449 

Mayonnaise (3) 449, 450 

Made mustard 449 

BUTTER: Melted or drawn. 450 

Maitre d'hotel 450 

SAUCE: maitre d'hotel 450 

Olive , 451 

Oyster 451 

Piquant 451 

Parsley , 451 

Pepper 453 

Shrimp 453 

Tartare 452 

Tomato (3) 453 

" Savory 453 

Vinaigrette (2) 438, 453 

White 453 

XX. Soups. 

Remarks 455 

STOCK: 456 

For clear soups 457 

White 458 

Glace 457 

SOUP: French paste for 458 

Thickening for 459 

Flavoring 459 

Amber, clear 460 

Asparagus 460 

Bouillon 460 

Soup, bean 461 

Cream of barley 461 

Beef 461 

With macaroni 463 

Brown 463 

Cabbage 463 

Celer)' 463 



746 



INDEX. 



SOUP— Continued. 

Chicken 463 

" And sago 464 

Clam 464 

" Philadelphia 464 

Crecy 465 

Com 465 

" Dried 465 

Curry 465 

Consomme 466 

Soup, egg 466 

Fish 466 

Giblet 467 

Game 467 

Gumbo 468 

Iced 468 

Jullienne 468 

Lobster 468 

Macaroni or vermicelli 469 

Terrapin, mock 469 

Turtle, green 458 

Mbck.. 469 

Mulligalawney (2) 470 

Mutton 471 

Mushroom 471 

Noodle 471 

Ox-tail 471 

Onion 471 

Oyster 472 

Green pea 472 

Split pea 472 

Potato 472 

Potage a la reine 472 

Cream of rice 473 

Soup, rabbit 473 

Sago 473 

Spring 474 

Squash 474 

Swiss white 474 

Tomato, French 474 

" Cream 475 

475 

Turkey 475 

Tapioca cream 475 

Vegetable 475 

Caramel and browned flour for 47G 

Croutons for 476 

Forcemeat balls for 470 

Poached eggs for 477 

Egg balls for 477 

" Dumplings for 477 

Noodles for 477 

SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT. 
SOUP: Asparagus 478 



SOUP— Continued, 

Bean (2) 478 

Cream of celery 479 

Duchess 479 

French 479 

Milk 480 

Green pea 480 

Split pea 480 

Potato 481 

" Browned 481 

Tomato, with rice 481 

Cream of tomato 483 

Vegetable , 483 

White, without meat 483 

XXI. Vegetables, 

Directions for cooking 483 

Table for cooking 484 

Artichokes, fried 484 

ASPARAGUS: With cream dressing. . ..484 

Fricasseed 484 

With eggs 485 

Broccoli, egg 485 

BEETS: And potatoes 485 

Prepared as a vegetable 485 

As a relish 485 

Greens 486 

Pudding 486 

BEANS: In gravy 486 

Boston baked , . . . 486 

Lima 486 

Pork and 487 

String, saute 487 

Brussels sprouts 487 

CARROTS: 487 

Boiled 487 

Stewed 487 

CABBAGE: Boiled 488 

Baked 488 

Creamed 488 

Minced 488 

Stuffed 489 

A la cauliflower 489 

Cold slaw 489 

CAULIFLOWER: A la Francaise 489 

With stuffing 489 

" Sauce 490 

Escaloped 490 

CELERY: 490 

Fried 491 

Stewed 491 

CORN: For winter use 491 

Baked 491 

Green, on the cob 491 

Custard 491 



INDEX. 



747 



Oysters 492 

Stewed 493 

CUCUMBERS: Sliced 492 

Fried 492 

Stewed 492 

Dandelions 493 

Endive, stewed 493 

EGG-PLANT: 493 

Baked 493 

Fricasseed 493 

Stuffed 494 

Garlic 494 

Greens, stewed 494 

Horse-radish as a garnish 494 

LETTUCE: 495 

Stuffed 495 

Wilted 495 

MACARONI: Plain boiled 495 

In gravy 496 

Baked 496 

A ritalienne 496 

As a vegetable 496 

With oysters 497 

" Tomatoes 497 

Stewed 497 

ONIOiN S: Baked 497 

Roiled 497 

Ormoloo 498 

Scalloped 498 

Okra, boiled 498 

Salsify, or vegetable oysters, stewed 498 

Vegetable oyster cakes 499 

Mock stewed oysters 499 

PARSLEY: Crisp 499 

To fry 499 

PARSNIPS: 499 

Fried 500 

Oysters 500 

Stew 500 

PEASE: Canned 500 

French way of cooking (2) 500, 501 

Green 501 

Brose, Scotch 501 

POTATO: Balls SOI 

" Baked 501 

Browned 502 

A la Bechamel 502 

Broiled 502 

And com 502 

A la creme 503 

Croquettes 503 

Chowder 503 

Buchess (2) 503 

Escaloped 504 

Fried raw (2) 504 

Browned hashed 504 

47 



POTATOES— Continued. 

Lyonnaise 505 

Mashed 505 

New 505 

" And green pease 505 

Old 505 

Puff 506 

Pie 506 

Patties 506 

Rolls 500 

Saratoga 507 

Savory 507 

Stewed 507 

Souffle 507 

Surprise 507 

Stuffed 508 

Turnover 508 

Tossed 508 

Sweet 508 

" French fried 508 

" Cold boiled 509 

A farmer's dainty dish 509 

Rice as a vegetable 509 

Casserole of 509 

Radishes 510 

Succotash 510 

Spinach (2) 510 

SQUASH : Summer 511 

Winter 511 

Stuffed 511 

TOMATOES: A la cream 511 

Browned 512 

Baked 512 

Broiled 512 

Baked, and corn 512 

Fried 512 

Escaloped 513 

Hash 513 

With macaroni 513 

Stuffed 513 

TURNIPS: 513 

Diced 514 

Puree of 514 

French butter for frying vegetables 514 

XXII. The Dining Rcom. 

The table 515 

Breakfast 517 

Dinner 518 

Supper 519 

A year's bill of fare 519-530 

Thanksgiving dinner 531 

Christmas dinner 531 

Economical dinners 531 

Cold lunches for wash days, etc 532 



748 



INDEX. 



Refreshments for 20 persons 532 

Refreshments for 100 persons 532 

XXIII. Folding Napkins. 
Folding napkins 533-541 



XXIV. Receptions and Entertainments. 

Breakfast parties 542 

Formal dinners 544 

Informal dinners 547 

Luncheon 548 

Teas 549 

High tea 551 

Evening parties and receptions 553 

XXV. Out-door Parties and Picnics. 

Garden and lawn parties 559 

Camping out 561 

Picnics 565 

XXVI. Butter and Cheese. 

Dairy hints 571 

BUTTER: Making fine 573 

To keep for winter use 574 

To keep in hot weather 575 

To color (2) 575 

MILK: To increase 573 

To preserve 575 

CHEESE. 

Rennet extract 576 

CHEESE: Home-made cream 576 

New Jersey cream 577 

Buttermilk, plain and spiced 578 

Cottage 578 

Sage 579 

Schmierkase 578 



XXVII. Kitchen Recipes. 

Care of silver 580 

To wash silverware 580 

An economical dish-cloth o80 

A good dish-cloth 581 

Washing dishes 581 

Paste for cleaning brass, copper and tin .581 

Coal ashes, to scour with 581 

Coffee pot, etc., to clean inside 581 



KETTLES: New 582 

Copper, to clean 582 

KNIVES: To clean 582 

Steel dinner, to remove rust 582 

STOVE POLISH: Liquid 583 

Cream 583 

How to polish a stove easily 583 

To make fire kindlings 584 

Stove cement 58'^ 

How to clean mica 584 

How to use an oil stove 584 

To keep a kitchen table clean 585 

To make hard water soft 585 

To purify water 585 

Home-made filter 586 



XXVIII. Laundry Recipes. 

TO CLEAN black silks 587 

Colored fabrics 587 

Black merino and other woolen stuffs. 588 

Lawn and muslin dresses 588 

White silk lace 589 

To raise the pile on velvet 589 

Laces, washing 589 

To renovate crape 590 

To wash flannels 590 

WASHING chintzes 590 

Towels 591 

To wash a linen duster 591 

TO BLEACH cotton cloth 591 

Lace, etc 591 

To remove scorches .592 

To stiffen linen 593 

To extract ink-stains from cloth, etc 592 

Another method 592 

Starch polish 592 

TO REMOVE fruit stains, recent or old. 593 
Paint, pitch and grease from silk, 

linen, etc 593 

Acid, tea, wine and other stains 593 

Mildew from cloihing 593 

Mildew on silk 594 

WASHING fluid 594 

" Borax 594 

" Gem 595 

Kerosene oil in 595 

SOAP: Ox-gall 595 

Hard 595 

Soft, from concentrated lye 596 

" 596 

Scraps of 596 

Good blueing 597 

Liquid blue 597 

Javelle water 597 



INDEX, 



749 



XXIX. Furniture and Wood-work. 

TO CLEAN carpets 598 

Paint 598 

Lining stair carpets 598 

Dirty or stained furniture 599 

A good cleansing fluid 599 

Oil stains on floors or tables 599 

Paste for papering hard-tinished walls. . .6UU 

To polish waxed or hardwood floors 600 

To revive gilt frames 601 

STAIN: Cherry 601 

Ebony 601 

Floor 601 

Walnut 601 

Home-made chair bottoms 601 

GLUE: Family 603 

Liquid 603 

FURNITURE POLISH: 603 

Home 603 

Fme 603 



XXX. Toilet Recipes. 

The hands 603 

Almond paste 603 

Wash for the hands 603 

Cold cream (3) 603, 604 

Care of the teeth 604 

Sozodont 604 

The gums 604 

Lip salve 604 

Tooth powders (4) 605 

Cure for sunburn and freckles 605 

Face wash 605 

Oat-meal wash 605 

Balm of beauty 606 

Wrinkles, to remove (3) 606 

Toilet bags 606 

For the bath 606 

Milk of roses 607 

HAIR: The 607 

Dressing 607 

Superfluous .608 

Baldness 608 

WATER: Cologne 609 

Lavender 609 

GLOVES: How to keep black from 

crocking 609 

Cleaning 609 

TO CLEAN jewelry 609 

Hair brushes 610 

Offensive feet 610 

SOAP: Sulphur and tar 610 

Toilet 610 



XXXI. Our Little Ones. 
Our little ones 611-618 



XXXII. Food, Drink and Nursing. 

Acid drinks 619 

WATER: Gum ai abic 619 

Tamarind 019 

TEA: Slippery elm 619 

Beef (3) 630. 621 

Toast water, or crust coffee 6'JO 

Koumiss G'iO 

BEEF: Prepared ti21 

bandwichcs 021 

Chicken broth 021 

Cream of rice 622 

EGG: Cream 022 

For the sick 622 

Soft-boiled 6''2 

GRUEL 623 

For infants 623 

JELLY: Arrow-root 623 

Beef, for invalids 623 

Milk 623 

Savory G24 

Wine 024 

PANADA: .635 

Chicken 635 

Milk porrdige 635 

Stewed raisins 625 

Soup for an invalid 625 

Nursing 626 

An emergency drawer 627 



XXXIII. Diseases and Home Remedies. 

The dose 629 

Asthma 629 

Balsam, Beckham's 630 

BITTERS: Blood 630 

Hop 630 

Grandmother's family spring 630 

Bleeding 631 

Boils 633 

Bruises and sprains 633 

Burns and scalds 633 

Carron oil 6S3 

CATARRH: Simple remedy for 633 

Sage's remedy 633 

Carbuncles 633 

Chicken-pox 633 

CHILBLAIN: Ointment 633 

Liniment for 633 



750 



INDEX. 



CHOLERA: C34 

Remedy 634 

Infantum 6o4 

Morbus 634 

Colds 635 

COUGH syrup 635 

" Standard 636 

Mixture 636 

Colic 636 

CONSTIPATION: Fig paste for 636 

Habitual 637 

Convulsions 637 

CORNS and bunions 637 

Salve, German 637 

Cramps 638 

Croup, membranous and spasmodic 638 

Cuts 638 

Diarrhoea 639 

DIPHTHERIA: 639 

Oil of turpentine in 640 

Disinfectants 640 

Draughts for the feet 640 

Drowning v 641 

Dysentery 641 

Dyspepsia 641 

Earache 643 

Eye wash, grandmother's 642 

FEET: Remedy for cold 643 

Frozen 643 

Felon 643 

Good Samaritan 643 

HEADACHE: 643 

Nervous , 644 

Bilious, rheumatism, cure for 644 

HICCOUGH: French remedy 644 

Cure for by pressure 644 

Itch 644 

Liniment 645 

Lungs, inflammation of (pneumonia). . . .645 

Measles 645 

Mumps 646 

Milk in sickness 646 

Mouth, sore (canker) 647 

NEURALGIA: 647 

Ointment for 647 

Neutralizing cordial 647 

Oil, Hamlin's wizard 648 

Painkiller, Perry Davis' 648 

Piles 648 

Poultices (7) 648 

Poisons and their treatment 649 

POISONING: What to do in case of. . .649 

Ivy 651 

Sumac 651 

By poison oak 651 

Powders for children 653 



Rheumatism Co3 

Rini;worm 652 

Runaround 652 

Salt-rheum or eczema 653 

Salves (3) 653 

SCARLET FEVER: 654 

Sulphur cure for 654 

Small-pox remedy 654 

Stings 655 

Summer sickness 655 

Sore throat and hoarseness 655 

Toe-nails, ingrowing 656 

Tonsilitis or quinsy 656 

Toothache 656 

Typhoid fever 657 

Vomiting 657 

Warts 658 

Whooping cough 658 

Worms 658 

Sandbag, to make a 659 

Egg, use of a raw 659 

XXXIV. Rats, Mice and Insects. 

Rats and mice (3) 660 

INSECTS: Ants, to destroy 660 

" Troublesome 661 

A bug trap 661 

Cockroaches 661 

Crickets 661 

Fleas, to banish 663 

Sticky fly-paper 663 

Flies and mosquitoes 663 

Mosquitoes 663 

MOTHS: In carpets 663 

Preventive powder 663 

Boffalo moth, the 663 

Insecticides, valuable 664 



XXXV. Care of Birds and Aquaria. 

THE CANARY 665 

Choosing the birds 665 

Baths 665 

Cages 666 

Food and water 666 

Breeding canaries 667 

Baldness 668 

Epilepsy 669 

Moulting 669 

Sore feet 669 

The Mocking Bird 669 

The Parrot 673 

German bird-food 673 

Mocking-bird food 673 



INDEX. 



751 



The Aquarium., 674 

Fish-globes and fish 675 

XXXVI. Flower Culture. 

House plants 678 

Bulbs for winter-blooming 681 

To re-pot house-plants 682 

BULBS: Preparing beds for 685 

The care of 686 

Arbors 687 

Creepers 688 

Rockeries 688 

Trellised windows 689 

Ferns 691 

XXXVII. Miscellaneous Recipes. 

Flavoring extracts, fruit juices, etc... 694 

CEMENT: 695 

For China 695 

For rubber or leather 695 

Diamond 695 

Mucilage, postage stamp 695 

Paste 696 

Lime water 696 

Gum, tolu chewing 696 

Calcimine 697 

Whitewash, excellent 697 

Cider, to keep (3) 697 

Jettine, or liquid shoe blacking 698 

Garments made waterproof 698 

Mildew, to prevent 698 

Rust to prevent (3) 699 

Frosting for windows 699 

Tracing paper, black 699 

INK: Sympathetic 700 

Black, for writing and copying. . .700 

Food for hens 700 

Gardening in a hogshead 701 

Sachet, or perfume powder 701 

Rose jar 701 



XXXVIII. Many Uses of Common 

Things. 

Remarks 702 

USES OP AMMONIA. 

In the kitchen 703 

In the laundry 702 

As a fertilizer 703 

All round the house 703. 

For the toilet .' 705 

As a remedy.. 704 

USES OF BORAX. 

For the toilet 704 

For the laundry 705 

For the kitchen 706 

Medical uses of borax 706. 

Miscellaneous uses 70© 

USES OF KEROSENE OIL. 

For laundry w^ork 707 

All round the house 707 

As a remedy 70d 

USES OF SALT. 

In the kitchen 709 

In the laundry 710 

For carpets and furniture 710 

To kill weeds 710 

For medicinal uses 711 

USES OF SODA. 

In the kitchen 715 

For the laundry 714 

For the toilet 714 

As a remedy 715 

Chemical Nomenclature 716 

Dictionary of Terms Used in Cook- 
ing 717 



RECAPITULATION. 

Folio Pages 751 

Introductory Pages 10 

Illustration Pages 32 

Total Pages 793 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



ill II I 1 1 ill I i i> I 
014 488 279 9 # 




^i??.' 



Li 











^■>^x;i 



