.4^^< 






>?^ 



m 






#" 



& 




'4W 



W^ 



W^^ 



^^■x 



\-'^7 






1-E" 



.K"*&00'\A95' 



"^S^" 







f^ 



'^ 



Le_ 



3- 



Boston Public Library 

This book is to be returned to the 
Library on or before the date last stamped 
below. 



n. 



1 » » f ' ■> • > 1 Q f 







J AN '-«i <^'- 








• 

























































































FORM NO. 609: 10.2,51. 100M. 



THE 

THOROUGH GOOD COOK 



THE 



THOROUGH 

GOOD COOK 



A SERIES OF 
CHATS ON THE CULINARY ART 



AND 



NINE HUNDRED RECIPES 

BY 

GEORGE AUGUSTUS SALA 



BRENTANO'S 

CH1CAG0_ PARIS WASHINGTON 

1896 



PREFACE. — I. 



To the General Reader. 

Every one of tlie Kecipes in this work has been carefully 
studied, and tested from personal experience, and compared 
Avith cognate formulas in the culinary manuals of such 
eminent authorities as Laguipiere, Beauvilliers, Ude, Careme, 
Soyer, Francatelli, Urbain Dubois, Jules Goufte, Kettner, 
ChandeHer (Napoleon's last chef at St. Helena), Garlin, 
Suzanne, and Durand, together with the English experts, 
Hunter, Kitchiner, Brand, Simpson, and Dolby. A lady 
to whom I once mentioned that I had tried prac- 
tically all the dishes which I have enumerated in the 
following pages, observed, with a smile, half of incredulity 
and half of disdainful compassion, that it was a wonder I 
had not died of apoplexy years ago; and should such a 
contingency suggest itself to the minds of my readers, I may 
respectfully inform them that my study of the Art of Cookery 
extends over a period of fifty-five years ; and that ever since 
I was a boy I have been, not only theoretically but practically, 
a cook. In a work of mine called " Things I have Seen and 
People I have Known," I incidentally remarked that my dear 
mother had all her children taught systematically to cook, 
as an integral part of their education ; and that although, 
from the circumstance of my having been a delicate child, I was 
absolved from the ruder labours of roasting, boiling, and baking, 
I was early initiated into the mysteries of preparing soups, 
entrees, sauces, and sweets. Further, I may just hint that 
although I fully appreciate the attributes of a gourmet, I 
certainly do not wish to claim the status of a gourmand. I 
delight in the genesis, as well as in the analysis and the 



Ti THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

moderate degustation, of artistically concocted plats; but it so 
happens that I have always had a very small appetite — that 
my favourite dishes have been boiled chicken and rice, Irish 
stew, macaroni, and haricot beans, and that for the last few 
years I have been almost a vegetarian. 

It is because I wish others to live "well, and to satisfy 
a cultured appetite without injuring their digestion, that I 
have written this book. In composing it I have kept three 
objects m view. First, to avoid padding my pages with 
quasi-scientific disquisitions on the chemistry of cookery. 
Nothing would be easier than to tell the public that which 
they have been told over and over again — that in making 
the pot-aii-feu, or fundamental beef broth, the heat of the 
fire swells the muscular fibres of the meat, dissolving the 
gelatinous substances therein contained, and that by these 
means the osmazome, which is the most savoury part of the 
meat, gently adds " its unction to the broth, while the albumen, 
which is the muscular part producing the scum, rises to the 
surface." To harp on such a string would be not only to 
waste the time but to exhaust the patience of my readers. 
Nor do I intend in these pages to teach the fundamental prin- 
ciples of cookery. I assume that the cook in whose hands 
I earnestly hope that very many ladies will place this book 
has learned the rudiments, and is able to use the minor 
arts, of her trade — that she knows how to roast, boil, fry, 
stew, and bake. I have not hesitated, therefore, to leave to 
her knowledge and judgment things which I should have had 
to set out in detail if I had been writing a treatise on the 
elements of the culinary art. It is true that now and again 
I have given some simple hints with regard to braising, 
since that is a process only imperfectly understood by the 
majority of English cooks, and not half so much used by 
them as it should be. 

My second object has been to make " The Thorough 
Good Cook" as cosmojDolitan as I possibly could, though 



TO THE GENERAL READER. y\\ 

without attaching to avowedly foreign dishes more or less 
unpronounceable titles. I have seen and tried the cookery 
of every country in the civilised world — from that which 
has furnished forth the tables of princes down to that which 
has formed the fare of peasants and mechanics ; and I do 
not know any foreign kitchen from which I have not been 
able to learn something, and m which I have not found 
dishes easily adaptable to English tastes. Scores of dishes, 
indeed, which we fondly imagine to be exclusively English 
have their counterparts in the cuisines not only of France 
but of Italy, Spain, Germany, Austria, and even Greece 
and Turke}^ That we, on the other hand, have a national 
English school of cookery is to me as indubitable as 
that we have a national school of painting ; and I main- 
tain that our cuisine contains many excellent dishes, as 
wholesome as they are succulent, among which I hasten 
to cite turtle and mock-turtle soup, boiled leg of mutton 
and caper sauce, grilled fowl and mushrooms, Irish 
stew, beefsteak pie and pudding, Scotch kale and coUops, 
lark and quail puddings, pickled salmon, soused mackerel, 
tripe and onions, ox-tail soup, liver and bacon, roast 
saddle of mutton, roast sirloin of beef, and plum pudding 
— which last dainty, if the directions I have given are 
foUoAved, need not be in the least indigestible. We have, 
besides, the finest butcher's meat and nearly the finest 
game in the whole world ; although France and the United 
States beat us in the way of poultry. Finally, our Imperial 
mastery of India has added to the English kitchen a large 
number of splendid curries ; and I seriously contend that 
a well-prepared curry is not only delicious to the taste but 
is also in most cases a salutary stomachic. The trouble is 
that, although we have plenty of good English dishes, not one 
cook in twenty knows how to prepare, artistically, edibles for 
the table, and that not one cook in a hundred has the faintest 
idea how even the simplest of curries should be composed. 



^111 TEE TROEOUGH GOOD COOK. 

My final object in putting forth a work to wliich I have 
devoted many years of hard study and labour has been to 
make " The Thorough Good Cook " adaptable to very moder- 
ate as well as to well-lined pockets. It does not profess to 
be a manual of cookery for the working classes ; because I 
am well aware that a working man's wife, whose allowance 
for housekeeping would not exceed fifteen shillings to a 
pound a week, could not afford to purchase all the ingre- 
dients prescribed m many of my least expensive recipes. 
This book is meant, first for that middle class of which I 
am myself a member, and next for the upper classes among 
whom I have mingled, and who, even to the very grandest 
of them, I have long been convinced, very often become 
wearied to the point of disgust by the monotony of the 
bills of fare provided for them by able and experienced chefs, 
who, for all their ability and experience, are contmually 
travelling in a circle, instead of strikino- out now and ao-ain 
at a tangent by borrowing dishes from alien kitchens. Over 
and over again have I been asked by ladies Avho have had 
French cooks in their employment to tell them of some 
novel sauce, some unhackneyed entree, some seldom-heard- 
of salad or sweet or savoury or hors-d'ceuvre, the recipes of 
which they might communicate to their cooks, so that some- 
thing like variety might be imparted to their luncheons or 
their dinners. The help which I have been able to give 
to a few I now extend to all; and I shall not, I hope, be 
accused of vanity when I say that such information as will 
be found in "The Thorough Good Cook" covers a rather 
wide range of culinary items. " I have seen the manners of 
my time and I have written this book," said, in his prcfiice, 
the author of " La Nouvelle Heloise." I, for my part, have 
seen and essayed the cookery of two generations all over the 
globe — I have a retentive memory : and that is why I have 
written "The Thorough Good Cook." G. A. S. 



PBEPACE.— II. 



To the Lady of the House- 
Dear Madam, 

I have explained — I hope without objectionable 
iteration — in the Preface addressed to the General Reader 
the objects which I have mainly endeavoured to accomphsh 
in this book. It remams for me respectfully and sympa- 
thetically to submit to you a few hints and suggestions which 
I think will be serviceable to you in establishing in your 
household that permanent boon and joy — a well-appointed 
kitchen. It would be altogether foreign to my purpose, 
and impertinent besides, were I to give you any lectures 
upon the necessity of economy, the kinds of tradesmen 
with whom you should or should not deal, and the best 
way of managing your servants. I have kept house myself 
ever since the year 1858, and I should say that, having always 
maintained a good table, not only for my wife and myself, 
but — as Grollier kept his well-bound books for himself and 
his friends — for my guests, I know a good deal about house- 
keeping. At the same time, it is quite possible that, though 
you yourself may be quite a yomig married lady, yet hav- 
ing had the inestimable advantage of thorough training by 
some experienced parent or relative, you know quite as much 
about domestic economy as I do. Still, I will briefly tell you 
what, in my opinion, will be of some service to you in the con- 
duct of your kitchen. You will find that in " The Thorough 
Good Cook " I have made provision for " smart " — to use the 
cant term of to-day — or elegant and luxurious repasts as well 

A* 



X THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

as for modest ones. I have done so because, for anglit I 
know, you may be a lady of the highest rank. If not, 
in this commercial country it is quite within the domain of 
possibility that you may be a lady of rank one of these days. 
In any case, there are occasions when you Avill feel disposed 
to ask your friends to entertainments of a more festive and 
more elaborate nature than those in which you ordinarily 
indulge ; and it is for that reason that I have given a 
good many recipes for dishes of which I have partaken 
in many lands at the tables of very superlative grandees 
indeed. At the same time I know perfectly well that, as a 
rule, cookery comparatively simple in its nature and moderate 
in its cost will be most acceptable to the majority of the 
ladies whom I have the honour to address. 

I have specially borne this in mind in respect to the names 
of the dishes which I prescribe. If you Avish to be and have 
the means of being " smart," you will usually find that I 
have given the dish its French name ; but I have been 
careful to supply also the English one, except in cases where 
no English equivalent can be found. I have endeavoured, 
too, to exclude as far as ever I possibly could the French 
names of culinary processes. Many cookery books over- 
flow with such technical terms as onarquer, masquer, /aire 
revenir, degraisser, Her, passer, mou'dler, faire reduire, 
dgoutter, and so forth ; and English adapters of French 
recipes either give some absurdly bhmdering translation of 
the French technical term, or pitchfork it, untranslated, into 
their English text ; thus puzzling and irritating the cook. 
That which I have tried to do has been to toll the culinary 
artist, in the plainest English at my command, how the dish 
is to bo made; and I have been able to make the English 
all the plainer, either because I can cook the dish myself, 
or have seen it cooked over and over again by experts in 
the art. 

Although, as I have said, you will find among my recipes 



TO THE LADY OF THE HOUSE. xi 

a large number of which I have made the acqiiamtance 
at the tables of ambassadors and other grand folk, I hope 
that I have avoided the absurdity of drawing up cuHnary 
formulas of which the following may perhaps be taken as 
a typical reduction to absurdity : " Take twelve poimds of 
fillet of beef, four large capons, and eight pounds of ribs of 
mutton ; moisten with two bottles of Chablis, one of Sauteme, 
and one of red Hermitage; to which add a glass of 
Curasao and one of very old Cognac ; mask the bottom of 
a silver stew-pan with slices of Bayonne ham, on which place a 
layer of truffles, asparagus tips, mushrooms, tomatoes, and 
pineapples ; on this place your meat ; simmer for seven hours; 
pour in two quarts of ' double ' cream, a bottle of champagne, 
and the juice of twelve Seville oranges, and serve in a silver 
dish, with a spirit lamp beneath." Upon my word, I have 
read recipes quite as Lucullian, quite as Apician, and quite as 
preposterous as the above, in a cookery book which could 
be bought for half-a-crown. The explanation of the absurdity 
is that the compiler of the culinary manual in question has 
picked up at a bookstall some cookery books written by a 
famous chef of the past — say Monsieur Vincent de la 
Chapelle, who was chief cook to the witty Earl of Chesterfield, 
and published his Livre de Cuisine in three volumes in 1742. 
A dish of miscellaneous ingredients called an olio was then 
extremely fashionable, and some of La Chapelle's olio recipes 
are in a degree as extravagant as the one which for the 
purpose of illustration I have invented. 

Finally, throughout " The Thorough Good Cook " I have 
been intent upon the endeavour to persuade English ladies 
to bring about in their culinary economy that which I hold 
to be a long needed and most important reform. My dear 
Madam, for twenty-five or thirty pounds a year you can 
get a female cook who is able to make, Ave Avill say, about 
a dozen soups, and she will serve up about an equal number 
of ^j^«^s of fish; she will be a good roaster and boiler, 



xii THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

and a tolerable adopt with the gridiron and the frying- 
pan; her pies, puddings, and sweets will be as a rule ir- 
reproachable, and she will be able to give you a few simple 
entrees, such as hashed mutton,' stewed rump steak, haricot 
mutton, veal cutlet and bacon, or minced A'eal. For forty 
pounds or thereabouts you shall have a cook who will 
be able to make a bisque of lobster or cray-fish, who can 
curry tripe or eggs, who will serve u]3, perhaps, twenty differ- 
ent entrees, who will know the difference between a chicken 
salad and one a la Riisse, and who will even be able to send 
up a triiite au bleu, a saumon d la Chainbord, or a dariole 
of ojT-sters. But unless you have a cook at fifty pounds a 
year or upwards, I will wager that she will be wholly un- 
satisfactory as a preparer of vegetables for the table. 

I am well acquainted with the cant so common in ordinary 
cookery books about " the boiled potato." The boiled potato, 
the appearance of which at Enghsh tables dates from about 
a hundred and thirty years ago, has been the bane of English 
cooker}" but let that pass. I will grant that your middle- 
class cook knows how not only to boil but to fry and mash 
and stew potatoes. Sometimes, but not often, she can 
saiiter or slightly bro-wTi them. But with regard to other 
vegetables she is, in general, grossly ignorant. Our miser- 
able deficiencies in this resfard arise, no doubt, from our 
stupid and barbarous custom, when the joint is served, of 
loading the plate with three or four kinds of crudely 
boiled vegetables : potatoes, carrots, and greens are all 
mixed up pell-mell by the side of the meat. I have even 
seen asparagus served with roast mutton. What we fail to 
understand is that no dish of meat should be served with 
more than one vegetable on the same dish, and that at least 
one course should be composed of vegetables alone, carefully 
and artistically cooked, and not brought to table reeking with 
the Avater in which they have been boiled. For goodness' 
sake, dear lady, persuade your cook to deal sensibly with the 



TO THE LADY OF TEE HOUSE. xiii 

products of tlie vegetable kingdom, and to treat the turnips, 
tlie carrots, tlie broccoli, the beans, the Brussels sprouts, the 
cauliflowers, and especially the artichoke, not as subordinate 
adjuncts to a dish of meat or poultry, but as separate, inde- 
pendent, and important dishes. 

One word more, about my recipes generally. In such a 
work as this, overlapping is unavoidable ; and many of the 
recipes might with equal propriety have been placed in any 
one of three or four of the sections into which " The Thorough 
Good Cook" is divided. But in the Index to Kecipes each 
recipe is entered separately, under its own name, as well as 
under the heading of the section to which it has been 
allocated. No difficulty will therefore be found in " turning 
up " any dish for which I have thought it worth while to 
give directions. 

G. A. S. 



PREFACE.— III. 



To Mrs. Cook. 

My Good Soul, 

Many years ago we had a paiiourinaid wlio, altlioiigli 
slie came from an aristocratic liouscliold in Park Lane, did 
not suit us very Avell. A sliort time after her departure I 
found in the drawer of her bedroom a half-finished note 
which she had Avritten, apparently, to some lady-friend, to 
me unknown. It was indited on what I assumed to be the 
note-paper of her former employer — that is to say, it bore, 
in A'iolct ink, an embossed address in Park Lane, a coronet, 
and a monogram. It began thus : "My dear Jane, I have 
been here a fortnight ; but missus and I don't hit it. It 
is nothing but jor, jor, jor, from morning to night." Here, 
like the story of the bear and the fiddle, that began and 
broke off in the middle, the epistle ended. Now, I have 
related this short anecdote with the view of assuring you 
that I have not the slightest intention of "jaAving" or 
pestering you witli advice touching a number of matters 
concerning which you very probably know quite as nuich 
if not more than I do. I have not written this book in order 
to teach the kitchenmaid or the very young and inexperi- 
enced cook the rudiments of her calling. That which I 
wish to do, assuming you to be a competent plain cook, is 
to make you a thoroughly good one. First of all, I want 
you to drive out of your head the nonsensical prejudice 
against entrees, or made dishes, as being " nasty French 



TO MBS. COOK. XV 

messes." No greater trouble is needed in dressing even 
the most elaborate of the dishes for which I have given 
directions than is required for cooking haricot mutton or 
Irish stew, or for jugging a hare, or making a chicken and 
ham pie. I have put down in the very plainest terms that 
I can call to mind the manner of making all kinds of 
dishes, complicated as well as simple. As to the exact 
quantities of the ingredients used, I have thought it best 
to leave you a jDretty considerable discretion, only, in 
one particular, I must most seriously beg you to attend 
to my counsel. Ahvays he easy with the j)epper-castor, 
especially in maJdng soup. A dish too highly peppered 
is hopelessly spoiled. If a little more seasoning is re- 
quired, what are the salt, the pepper, and the mustard 
on the table for, if not for the purpose of heightening 
flavour ? Remember that, in nine cases out of ten, dinner 
begins with soup. If the first dish is a failure and our tongues 
are smarting from the over-fiery soup, we are very apt to lose 
our temper for the rest of the repast. 

This remark applies quite as strongly to the making of 
curry. Too much curry powder is a very grave error. 
The curry, when it comes to table, should be heightened 
in flavour by more or less powerful chutney, according to 
the tastes of the guests. Remember that I am speaking as 
an expert in this respect, since I went through, some years 
ago, a regular course of curry making in Ceylon and at 
Calcutta ; and when I came home my curry luncheons 
earned the approbation of numerous distinguished Anglo- 
Indian authorities, including the late Sir Richard Burton. 
I beg you to read over and over again the directions for 
making curry given in the body of this book,* especially as 
regards the boiling of the rice ; and I ask you to do this not 
only in order that you may give pleasure to your em- 
ployers, but for a reason which I hope will at once come 

* Pp. 28, 322-24. 



svi THE THOEOUGH GOOD COOK. 

home to you. A good ciirry-cook can always command 
liiglier Avages than one who does not know how to dress 
curry, or dresses it chunsily. Agam, my good friend, I do 
most earnestly entreat you to study well that which I have 
written al)Out omelettes,* a delicious dainty which not one 
English cook out of fifty knows how to prej^are properly. 
Always bear this golden rule in mind — that Jiour should 
never be used in making an omelette ; and that milk 
should he as rigorously excluded. Eggs are cheap enough. 
Practise making omelettes whenever you have the oppor- 
timity, and induce your em23lo3x^rs to have savoury omelettes 
for breakfast and sweet omelettes at dinner. Kindly read 
over and over again also that which I have said in my 
second preface about cooking vegetables. Don't turn them 
over to the kitchenmaid. Take them in hand yourself; 
for a well-prepared dish of cauliflower or spinach or arti- 
chokes should earn you as much praise as a lobster salad, 
or a vol-au-vent, or an ice pudding. 

And now, always abstaining from "jawing," let me in 
the friendliest manner ask you to bear a few concluding 
rules in mind. Serve hot — Serve hot, Mrs. Cook ! A dish 
sent up scalding hot will soon get cool ; but there is no 
hope and no cure for a dish that is lukewarm. And mind 
that you see that the kitchenmaid sends up thoroughly hot 
plates for hot dishes. Bo clean, be clean, be clean every- 
where — in your kitchen, your larder, and your scullery. 
Keep the very strictest watch over the hog-tub — to use the 
vulgar name — or wash-bucket. Keep an equally sharp e3'e 
over the dustbin, and do not allow to accunuilate there 
fever-breeding heaps of bones, cabbage stumps, lobster shells, 
etc. Many kinds of refuse can be got rid of by burning 
them in the modern ranges at the end of each day; but if 
you cannot get rid of them by this means, worry the 
dustmen incessantly to do their duty ; and if they are 

See the Index to Recipes, under " Omelettes." 



TO MRS. COOK. xvii 

remiss, ask your employer to write to the vestry clerk and 
complain of their neglect. 

In conclusion, try to keep peace and good order in 
the servants' hall. Don't " row." A " rowing " cook is de- 
struction. Be perfectly friendly with all : still, in families 
where there is neither a butler nor a housekeeper, let the 
other domestics know that you, Mrs. Cook, are "boss," and 
must be treated with proper respect. Feed the servants 
well; but don't pamper them, and never allow anyone to 
enter the larder without your permission. You are account- 
able for everything there, and it is not right that you 
should run the risk of having your larder tampered with. 
Discourage grumbling, tale-bearing, and scandal. Never allow 
any of the tradespeople to come nearer your domain than 
the kitchen door. Put down sternly and strongly anything 
like bad language in the servants' hall. Do your best to 
keep your temper — I know full well how trying young 
servants are to their elders, and how heavy are the respon- 
sibilities of a cook with an elaborate dinner to think out 
and dress — and don't thump the kitchenmaid ! 

G. A. a 



CONTENTS. 

CHATS ABOUT COOKEEY. 

The Greek Cuisine 1 

The Eussian Cuisine S 

French Domestic Cookeey 5 

The American Cuisine 7 

Delmonico's ... ... 10 

The Kitchen of the Fatherland 13 

The Spanish Cuisine 16 

The Scottish Kitchen 18 

Breakfast Dishes 20 

Salads 25 

Macaroni, Risotto, and Polenta 26 

Curry 2S 

What Shall We Do with the Scraps ? 30 

Hash 32 

Old-fashioned Puddings 3.t 

Confectionery 37 

Pies, Patties, and Tarts 39 

Savouries and Tit-Bits 42 

Potatoes 4i 

Eggs 46 

Oysters 47 

Cold Fish 50 

Porridge 51 

Chops 53 

Should Chops be Fried or Boiled? 55 

Partridges 60 

Minces 61 

Cheese 63 

Cool Drinks 65 

How to make Coffee 68 

Ices 70 

For the Children 73 



BECIPES. 



Section I.-— Soups 


77 


>i 


II.— Fish 


140 


!> 


III. — Entbees 


204 


)) 


IV. — Boasts, etc 


243 


J) 


V. — Poultry, Game, etc. 


247 


)> 


VI.— Entremets 


282 


I) 


VII.— Curries 


322 


I> 


VIII.— Sauces 


325 


)) 


IX, — Vegetables 


353 


») 


X. — Salads 


377 


)) 


XI.— Hors-d'(Euyres and Savoury Dishes... 


381 


!> 


XII.— Eggs 


389 


!! 


XIII.— Cheese 


397 


)1 


XIV.— Sweets 


402 


JJ 


XV.— Ices and Drinks 


445 


I) 


XVI.— Miscellaneous 


... 455 


Index 


to Recipes 


469 


General Index 


490 



THE THOROUaii GOOD COOK 



CHATS ABOUT COOKEEY. 



The Greek Cviisine. 

You are very much niistaken if you think that, in talking 
about Greek cookery, 1 am going to descant on the black 
broth of the Spartans, or that I intend to paraphrase the bill 
of fare of Trimalcion's banquet, so admirably rendered in 
Professor Becker's " Gallus." It is not on the ancient Greek 
cuisine that I Avish here and now to give a few hints. The 
cooker}' of which I append a Ijrief sketch is that which is 
practised in free and independent Hellas, and among Greeks 
who are yet subject to Ottoman rule, in this present year of 
grace. Yet I have not called this chat " modern " Greek 

o 

cookery, because I hold that the epithet " modern " is in- 
sulting to the Greeks, who had a spoken and written poj^ular 
language man}' hundreds of years before we arrogant English 
folk had any settled language at all. Let it be broadly stated 
that truly excellent cookery may be found in private houses 
at Athens, at Smyrna, and at Constantinople, but that the 
Hellenes as a whole have not a very copious or refined kitchen. 
The staples, indeed, of the diet of the common people in 
Greece comprise bread, somewhat coarse in texture and dark 
in colour, gi-apes, and black olives. They Avill also cat as 
much of a milky kind of cheese (furl) as they can get ; and 

13 



2 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

they are greatly addicted to sousing nearly all their dishes 
with olive oil. A common repast for a Greek peasant is a 
himch of bread, scored backwards and forwards in parallel 
lines with a knife to a criss-cross jDattern ; this is seasoned 
with pepper and salt, and drenched with oil ; and is then 
heartily partaken of, not only by the agricultural classes, but 
by monks, sailors, and artisans. 

The long and severe fasts ordained by the Greek Church 
necessitate the consumption, during Lent and cognate periods 
of abstinence, of vast quantities of dried fish ; and in the 
Greek islands at all times tish is plentiful and cheap. When 
meat is eaten, it is generally beef; and the people usually 
seem to prefer the vraston, or boiled meat, to the iiseton, or 
roast variety. Eggs, again, are in conuiion demand ; cabbage 
and onions are favourite vegetables ; and in the way of 
sauce the Greeks are never tired of oil and garlic. The 
oleaginous product of the olive is as dear to them as ghee 
to a Hindu ; and in devouring garlic they surpass even the 
Marseillais. In polite society in Athens, French cookery, 
intermingled with a few native dishes, prevails. Among 
the middle classes the cuisine is a curiously compound one. 
It has a basis of radically Romaic preparations ; but with 
these are blended a large proportion of Italian dishes ; Avhile 
the confectionery is almost wholly borrowed from the Turks. 

I should here mention that the celebrated Eastern delicacy 
called yaourt* which is simply curdled cream left till it 
becomes quite sour and swims in liquid of a greenish hue, 
can be made very imich after the fashion of Devonshire 
junket. Perhaps the best substance with which to curdle 
or coagulate it is rennet ; but should a vitelline membrane be 
difficult to procure, any druggist will give you a few drops 
of some perfectly harmless acid, Avhich will suffice to " turn " 
the cream. But yaourt is rather a Djagetai Tartar than a 
purely Ottoman dish. The Russians are quite as fond as 

* Sec p. 444. 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 

the Turks of sonr cream, the use of which they borrowed 
from the Tartar tribes of the south, and which they serve 
with their national cabbage soup. But of this I shall have 
to speak in the chat about Muscovite cookery. 

In conclusion, I may mention that in Greek sweet 
dishes, and even in some savoury ones, a good deal of honey 
is used ; and this, again, is a practice learnt from the 
Turkish confectioners. 



The Russian Cuisine. 

I want to tell you something about Russian cookery, 

iind to disabuse your minds of the possible impression that 

the Russians are a people who chiefly support existence 

on rye-bread, pickled cucumbers, caviare, and train-oil, 

with a tallow candle occasionally, by way of a treat. As 

.a matter of fact, although the fare of the Russian peasantry 

is sufficiently coarse, the cuUine enjoyed by the well-to-do 

and the Avealthy is a most ajipetising one. In the very 

highest ranks of society at St. Petersburg and Moscow, the 

cookery is entirely and exquisitely French, and the cJief is 

usually an artist from Paris. There are, however, certain 

national dishes which are prepared in Russian households, 

and which are regularly served at the best hotels in the 

two great cities of Russia. I do not intend to worry you 

Avith a long string of names and dishes in Russ, as I 

am not anxious to make a vain show of familiarity with 

foreign languages, or to print a long list of words Avhich 

many of my readers would not, I feel sure, be able to 

pronounce, and which probably they Avould not remember. 

I may, however, just hint that the name of the cabbage 

soup for which I have given a recipe* sounds precisel}' like 

.a sneeze. 

* See p. 114. 

B 2 



4 TIIK TIIO ROUGH GOOD COOK. 

Of course a Russian dinner, like tliat of most of the 
Northern nations, is preceded by a " snack,"' or rather, a 
variety of '• snacks," served on a kirge tray, which is some- 
times ]daced on the sideboard of the dining-room, and 
sometimes on a table in the back drawing-room, where 
the guests are received. The '■ snacks " or relishes may 
consist of fresh caviare, ravr herrings, smoked salmon, sun- 
dried sturgeon, raw smoked goose, radishes, cheese, sliced 
sausa^'es, cod - sounds, raw ham. and bread and butter. 
With these ap]>ear tiny liqueur glasses of klimmel, kirsch- 
wasser, maraschino, anisette, and vodka, or corn brandy. 

Among the soups is a cold one, the stock of half- 
fermented rye or barley-beer, ^vith pieces of herring, 
cucumber, meat, and ice floating in it. For the iced 
spinach and sorrel soup I have also given a recipe.* There 
is another capital hot soup, to which I nmst fain give its 
Russian name, which is easy to remember. This is " Borsch."'' 
Prepare a jiol-au-fca, with a piece of lirisket of beef, vege- 
tables, and a piece of smoked bacon, which has first been 
blanched. A\dien the meat is nearl}' done, add a mince, 
composed of raw beetroot, onions, leeks, quarter of a white 
cabbage head, and a piece of celer}- root ; fry the whole in 
butter on a moderate fire: then season vour vecfetables 
and moisten with two quarts of broth. Let the liquid 
boil over a moderate fire ; last of all, add the meat and 
the smoked bacon, cut into middling-sized squares. At 
the last moment, mix into the soup a little sour juice of 
bec'root, with three tablespoonfuls of raw beetroot rasped. 

The Russians are fond, too, of smoked fish, from 
which the fillets are taken out, and the skin removed. 
These are cut into sHces, put together in their original 
shape, and* dished u\) witli a genuine Russian sauce of 
mustard, olive oil, and vinegar. Also they uiake excel- 
lent ]>atties of the flesh of the sturgeou. and likewise of 

* See r- l-"57. 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 5 

ising-lass. These eat very much Hke fishy muffins. There is, 
again, a wonderful dish of fish and cabbage, which requires 
a good deal of pepper to make it go down, and is a pre- 
paration which I can scarcely recommend. 

The Russians are much given, also, to cold boiled suck- 
ing pig, and make a splendid dish of it. You must take 
your pig, divide him in pieces, boil him with white wine ; 
let him cool, and bone him ; then you encrust a mould 
with pounded ice, which you endue at the bottom and 
all round with poached white of egg, gherkins, and beet- 
root. Dip each item in aspic jelly previously to putting- 
it in the mould ; pour a thick layer of jelly on the 
bottom of the mould ; let it set, and then arrange the 
pieces of boiled piggy alternated with minced gherkins 
and whole capers, being careful to leave a hollow all round 
the mould. Fill this hollow with cold liquid jelly, well 
set. When ready to serve, dij) the mould in warm water, 
turn piggy out on a dish, and serve vvith horseradish 
sauce. I make no pretence of the tlish being a cheap 
one; but this book is a cookery book for all, and I am 
entitled, therefore, to give expensive recipes as well as 
cheaper ones. 



Prench Domestic Cookery, 

There is an erroneous notion very common in England 
that all French cookery is as expensive as it is difficult ; 
but I hold that, in many respects, the French system is 
less expensive than the English one, and that in a nud- 
titude of instances its variety is equalled by its simplicity. 
What did the great Louis Eustache Ude say ^ — '• It is a mis- 
taken notion that good cookery is expensive ; on the contrar\', 
it is the cheapest. By good cookery we make the most of 
evervthing ; by bad cookery, the least." 

When I first went to France, the ha ate caisiiie boa)-- 



6 TEE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

geoise, or, as I call it, upper middle-class cookery, was in 
a much better condition than it is at present in Paris, wliere 
it lias declined owing to the immense number of cheap- 
restaurants at which persons with moderate incomes lunch 
and dine. You must go very far into the Departments, 
and especially into legal, professional, and mercantile circles,, 
to find upper middle-class cookery in perfection. There 
you will be resfaled, as a standino- dish, with the historical 
'pot-au-feu, or beef-soup — call it broth, if you will. But 
now, mark: this should be immediately followed by hourlll 
— the beef which has been boiled to make the soup 
withal. I confess that I do not know what becomes of 
the gravy-beef in this country. Possibly the cook throws 
it away, after boiling it to rags in a violent, tempestuous,, 
and imthinking way. The French not only eat the gravy- 
beef hot, but also make it, when cold, into a very nice 
salad, with oil and vinescar, s^herkins, and a few thin slices- 
of cold boiled potatoes sprinkled with finely chopped parsley. 
They treat cold French beans and cauliflowers in precisely 
the same manner ; but the English horror of oil deters 
us from utilisin*'- cold veo-e tables in this sensible fashion. 
At home, in hot weather, I often revel in fresh figs and 
other fruit, together with salads of cold asparagus, and 
cold French beans at breakfast. 

Hot boiled gravy-beef, 3'ou may say, is a tasteless and 
insipid viand, fit only for prisoners and paupers; but please 
to be.ir this in mind — that in France there is served Avith 
the ho iL ill I a rich brown sauce, which makes the mfeat 
very palatable ; and, moreover, the beef itself has been so' 
gently and carefully simmered during so many hours that 
it has become thoroughly tender, without being " papp)' "■ 
or stringy, and is altogether suitable for the digestion of a 
dyspeptic person. 

As regards made-dishes, the most favourite ones in upper 
middle-class cookery in France are mutton cutlets, either 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 7 

plainly broiled, or egged -and -bread -crumbed. They are 
cut very small ; and not everybody is aware that the little 
paper frill round the shank is placed there to facilitate 
the action of the guest when he likes to eat his cutlet 
without the aid of a knife and fork. You have heard, no 
doubt, of the twenty-four cutlets Avhich Louis XVIIl. used 
to devour every day for luncheon. They probably did not 
represent, in dimensions, much more than twenty-four niouth- 
fuls. Veal cutlets are broiled and served with a puree of 
jDotatoes ; that is to say, mashed, lubricated with butter, and 
moistened with milk to the consistency of thick cream ; or 
"with an analogous piu'ee of spinach, or sorrel, or chicory — 
all cheap and wholesome vegetables. Button- mushrooms are 
also extensively used, or champignons. As for calf's head, 
our neighbours treat it very successfully, both hot and cold. 
Cold, it is dressed with oil and vinegar, a salad of chopped 
parsley, yolks and whites of eggs, and olives, being arranged 
separately in four little pyramids at the corners of the 
dish. The French also patronise fried and broiled calves' 
ears, calves' brains with sharp sauce, calves' tongues, liver, 
sweetbreads, hot, cold, and in aspic jelly. Another most 
acceptable French made-dish is boiled fowl and rice, which 
is simply the Western form of the Folio con arroz of the 
Spaniards, and the iiihif of the Mohammedan nations. 
Fowl and rice is a dish that was probably brought to 
Western Europe by the Crusaders ; for some reason or 
another, it does not often make its apjjearance at English 
middle-class tables. 



The American Cuisiue. 

The American cuisine, broadly speaking, may be divided 
into three classes. First, domestic cookery, as it is practised 
in the Northern and Southern States; next, ordinary hotel 



8 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK 

cookery, which may be mipartially detined as a desert of 
very indifferent cooking, Avith a few oases here and there ; 
and finally, the sinnptnoiis cuisine which you find at Del- 
nionico's, the Brunswick, and two or three other restaurants 
in New York ; at the Continental Hotel, Philadelphia ; at 
the Grand Pacific Hotel, Chicago ; and at the Palace Hotel, 
San Francisco. The chefs at these renowned establishments 
receive salaries of rive thousand dollars a year or more ; and 
they serve epicures with luncheons and dinners equal to 
any repasts that can be obtained at the greatest of French 
restaurants, or at the London "West End clubs. 

The dishes I am about to mention all belong to American 
domestic cookery. First there is " gumbo," * made of 
" ochra," which is, I think, procurable in Piccadilly, not tar 
from Fortnum and ]\Iason's. Cchra is the plant called 
AhelmoscJdis esculent as, which yields a nmcilaginous fruit 
used in soups and pickles in America, the AVest Indies, 
and the Isle of France. The odd name, Ahelmosclius, is 
supposed to be derived from the Arabic, and means 
" father of musk ; " the seeds of one of the varieties of the 
fruit having a musky odour. " Gumbo" is only the Indian 
name for ochra, which is also called " bandikai." Green 
corn and '•' succotash "t you should be able to get at almost 
any co-operative store ; but let me tell you that perhaps 
the most enjoyable way of consuming green corn is to. eat 
it from the cob, boiled and buttered. To see a pretty 
young American lady take up a corn-cob in a napkin and 
dexterously twirl it round and round till she has nibbled 
all the grains of corn from the cob, without soiling her 
fingers or her symmetrical chin, is a truly delightful 
spectacle. 

As for pork and beans, it is a New England dish, and a 
thoroughly national one besides. There is a New England 
Society both in Boston and in New York ; and it is said 

* See p. r>7(!. t Sjc p. i-'>\. 



CHATS ABOUT COOXEUY. i) 

that the two associations have amicably agreed to diti'cr as 
to the exact date of the landing of the Pilgrim Fathers at 
Plymouth Kock. They hold their annual banquets on different 
days; but there is only just a sufficient interval between the 
two to allow the New York society to feast on pork and 
beans at Boston as well as New York ; while the Bostonians 
follow suit, and revel on pork and beans both in their own 
State and in that of the Empire City. At a restaurant a 
truly patriotic American — and Avhat xlmerican is not pat- 
riotic ? — never calls for pork and beans : he orders " Stars 
And Stripes." 

Indian pudding is another distinctly American domestic 
dish. It is made of sifted Indian corn-flour, scalded in bc'il- 
ing Avater, and placed in a saucepan over a tire, with a quart 
of milk, a quarter of a pound of butter, and a pint of molasses 
or golden-syrup treacle ; six beaten eggs and a little lemon- 
juice are added to the mixture, which must be stirred till 
it is quite light and smooth, and it is then baked in a 
moderately hot oven. 

Fish pudding may be made of salmon, soles, or turbot, 
seasoned with salt, pepper, tinely chopped onions, and parslej-, 
Avith Avhich the fish nmst bo carefully rubbed. This is 
placed in paste rolled half an inch thick, tied up in a 
pudding-cloth, placed in boiling watei-, and allowed to 
simmer for an hour and a half. 

I don't knoAv Avhether any of our caterers import the 
fresh-water or tide-water tortoises called ■'■ terrapin,"' of 
Avhich there is a salt-water variety found in the maishes 
around Charleston. There is also, bv the wav, a chicken t<'>r- 
toise, so named from its flavour, Avhich is a o-veat favourite 
with American epicures. If you do get hold of terrapin, cook 
them in the following manner: — They must be killed like 
lobsters, by being placed in boiling Avater ; a cruel process 
no doubt, but AA'ould you like to eat lobsters Avith black 
shells / Skin your terrapin Avhen killed, and cut off their 



10 THE THOBOUGE GOOD COOK. 

claws ; wash and put them on again to boil, with a teaspoon- 
fol of salt to every two. Remove the galls carefully ; cut 
up the meat ; season with pepper, mace, and nutmeg, and 
put in a stew-pan, with the juice of the meat ; and for each 
brace of terrapin, three ounces of butter and flour, a glass 
of sherry, and the yolks of two eggs beaten. The wine and 
eggs must be added after the whole is stewed perfectly 
tender. Serve in a silver dish, if you have got one, Avith a 
lighted spirit-lamp underneath. This is a costly delicacy ; 
but its English analogue, " dressed " crab (which can be served 
both hot and cold), is very toothsome, and is cheap enough, 
Gfoodness knows. 



Delmouico's. 

^leniories of old times gathered fast and thick around 
me when I opened the pages of a goodly tome, published 
not long since by Messrs. Brentano, called " The Delmonico 
Cook Book : How to buy food, how to cook it, and how to 
serve it." 

It was in the winter of the 3'ear 1863 that I first made 
my acquaintance Avitli Dohnonico's world-famous restaurants 
in New York. I had had some literary business to transact 
with a great publishing tirni somewhere near the bottom of 
Broadway, and my interview with them had not been of a 
very pleasant nature. It seemed to me that they shared 
the peculiarity ascribed by Canning in matters of commerce 
to the Dutch, of giving too little and asking too much. 
Tiiere were three partners, but at the outset I only saw two- 
of them. One was a very methodical gentleman, bristling all 
over with figures ; the other seemed to be of somewhat a 
theological tendency ; but I could not make, in the way of 
business, anything satisfactory of cither. I left the oflice 
in dudgeon, and was wending my way up Broadway towards- 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 11 

the Brevoort House, one of the most comfortable hotels in the 
world, when I heard a quick step behind me. A hand was 
laid on my arm, and I was accosted by a little stout gentle- 
man, Avdio introduced himself to me in the friendliest imagin- 
able manner. " You didn't get along very Avell with our 
people," he remarked. "You have seen the arithmetical 
partner and the pious one ; I, sir, am the I'estive partner ! 
Oysters on the half-shell, and Heidsieck's dry Monopole, 
white seal, at Delmonico's at once." Delmonico then had a 
branch restaurant in William Street, and to that pleasant 
place of entertainment we forthwith repaired ; and, through 
the agency of the " festive " partner, I made a very satis- 
factory business arrangement with the house of which he 
was a member. 

There Avas still another Delmonico's down town near 
Wall Street, and yet another on a most palatial scale in 
Fifth Avenue, corner of East Fourteenth Street ; but the 
last time that I was in the Empire City I found only a single 
Delmonico, installed in a magnificent mansion fronting on 
Fifth Avenue, Broadway, and Twenty-sixth Street, into the 
last of which thoroughfares looks out a magnificent cafe 
with a tessellated floor, lofty ceiling, and any number of 
small marble-topped tables. In this room smoking and 
drinking, as well as eating, are indulged in by gentlemen. 
The remaining moiety of the ground floor is occupied by a 
similar apartment fronting on Fifth Avenue, and used as a 
public restaurant. An elevator gives access to the second 
floor ; and here is a series of private apartments and dining- 
rooms en suite, with a spacious and sjDlendidly decorated ball- 
room or dining-hall. On the upper floors are a limited 
number of apartments for gentlemen; and in one of these 
suites of chambers Dion Boucicault, the dramatist, resided 
for a considerable period. The cuisine and the service at 
this house are not surpassed by any restaurant in the world, 
and the same may safely be said of the prices, which are 



12 THE THOriOUGH GOOD COnK. 

comiuensiirate Avitli the excellence of the fare and the | er- 
fection with Avhich it is served. Yet two persons can dine 
modestly at Dehnonico's for live dollars, or £1 sterling. This 
.sum includes a bottle of very good claret, although it is the 
cheapest on the list. It may be added that at iJelmonico's 
the rule obtains that a " portion " for one is quite enough 
for two. 

The author of "The Delmonico Ccok Book" is ^I. Ales- 
sandro Filippini, who has been twenty-tive years vlicf at this 
historic house, and in an autograph letter which serves as a 
preface, he dedicates his exhaustive work to the Delmonico 
family. In tive hundred closely printed pages one finds, to 
begin with, ample information touching the markets of New 
York ; and the Britisher will derive much interesting inform- 
ation concerning a large variety of edibles which are rarely 
met with in this country. For example, M. Filippini men- 
tions wild turkey's, " trutfled grouse, commonly called ])ar- 
tridge," squabs, robin or red-breasted .snipe — oh ! M. Fi!ip[)ini ! 
— sora or Yirginia rail, antelope, brant, red-heads, cygnet or 
3'oung swans, with, of course, the famous canvas-back duck. 

Among tisli mainly strange to the English palate are 
pompanos, sheep's head, red- snapper, grouper, white fish, 
cisco, cattish, wall-eyed pike. Then there are green turtle and 
terrapin; followed by clams, soft-shell crabs, and twenty 
varieties of 03'sters. ^I. Filippini proceeds to give a series 
of menus for every day in the year; in which, among a host 
of truly American dainties, you will tind stutfed and devilled 
crabs, sweet potatoes, I'ried scollops with tomato sauce, 
stringed beans with cream, hsh-balls, Saratoga potatt)es, 
pigs' feet a la Boston, Martha Washington's pie, black tish 
(in (jnitin, squash, broiled sea-bass, scrambled eggs with 
asparagus tops, tender loin steak, turke}- with cranberry 
sauce, antelope chops, lamb steak, flat sausages Avith white 
wine, and blue tish Ct Vltalienne. 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. V.\ 



The Kitclien of the Tatherlaiid. 

I tirst sot foot on German soil in 1850, Avlien I went on 
a trip to Aix-la-Chapelle. I began to learn German ten 
3'ears before, and I lla^'e always been an atrociously bad 
German scholar; but I have an intense admiration for the 
strength, solidity, and thoroughness of the German charac- 
ter ; I delight in German art, and, as far as I can under- 
stand it, in German literature. I like the simplicity and 
truthfulness of German home-life, and I hope that I ap[)rc- 
ciate the comeliness of the flaxen-haired, blue-eyed, plump, 
and dim])led miidchen. 

Especially do I recognise the many excellent qualities 
of Teutonic cookery — a cuisine which has been half ignor- 
antly and half spitefully caluumiatcd both in France and 
in England. In this country we arc apt to think that the 
Germans subsist chiefly on sausages, sauer-kraut, fresh 
boiled beef, and suet ])udding ; washed down by un- 
limited i^otations of German beer, and a modicum of 
'■' frightened water,"' as the Germans call Rhine Avine, to 
which we give the generic term of hock. The truth is 
that the German kitchen is a very copious and varied 
one, differing favourably in many particulars from the 
cookery of other Continental peoples ; while, in its higher 
branches, it rivals not wholly unsuccessfully the French 
cuisine. It should not be forgotten that that mucli- 
vaunted cuisine Avas originally introduced into France by 
Giinthcr von Andernach, the Lutheran physician of Francis I. 

One curious instance in which Germany differs from" 
other nations in its modes of food preparation is apparent 
in its soups. What do you say to milk soup, sweet and 
savoury; to chocolate soup, almond soup, and wine soup; 
to frothoddemon soup, and beer soup — of which hust there 



14 TEE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

arc at least half-a-dozen varieties ? A very favourite one is 
beer soup with caraAvay seeds ; it is made Avith some slices of 
bread boiled soft in a little water, then strained, and beaten 
smooth ; caraway seeds, lemon-peel, sugar, spice, and beer 
are added ; all is boiled together until the caraways are soft ; 
then it is stirred briskly with yolks of eggs in the tureen. 

There are soups, too, made of apples, pears, strawberries, 
currants, and cherries, which arc all sweet pottages, and 
with Avliich macaroons and Naples biscuits may be served. 
There are also a large number of fish-soups : some of which 
bear a strong resemblance to the iish-soups of the Russian 
kitchen. In sauces, again, the Germans are very strong. 
They make a capital asparagus sauce out of the yolks of 
eggs with cream, a dessertspoonful of flour, a little salt and 
nutmeg, a piece of butter, and a suflficient quantity of the 
water in which the asparagus has been boiled. This nmst 
be stirred continually until thick ; and a little lemon-juice 
or vinegar may bo added, but not enough to give an acid 
taste to the sauce. I am not acquainted with any other 
national kitchen frugal enough to utilise the water in which 
asparagus has been boiled, and which has naturally absorbed 
a great deal of the exquisite flavour of that delicious escu- 
lent. Try it by all means, whenever the blessed vegetable 
is in season. 

I should say something in commendation of the Pomer- 
anian sauce for w^ild ducks, which is made thus : — Boil the 
peel of two Seville oranges until soft. Drain and cut this 
into thin strips, put them in a saucepan with a glass of old 
hock and a cup of clear grav}'', without any flavour of spice ; 
squeeze in the juice of the oranges ; add a little cayenne 
pepper, and, if not quite acid enough, a little lemon 
juice. Pour the sauce over the ducks when served, 
I should applaud this sauce were it not, as I hold, that 
the very best sauce for roasted wild duck, and for a salmi 
of tame duck, is the sweet orange itself, simply sliced and 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 15 

eaten bodily, rind and flesh, with the duck. The juice of 
the orange only loses its flavour when it is mingled with 
other ingredients, especially with wine. You want it fresh ^ 
sharp upon your palate ; and it gives in its natural state an 
estimable zest to the bird itself. 

In salads and salad dressings the Teutons are very 
powerful ; and this should be remembered — that in the 
Fatherland every known vegetable, when cooked j^li^iiib'- 
can be used cold for salad. Potato salad may be considered 
as native to German soil. The potatoes must be boiled 
in their skins, and while warm must be peeled and sliced 
thin ; then chives, onions, and parsley are chopped very 
fine and strewn over the potatoes in the salad bowl. Now 
sprinkle with salt and pepper ; add three spoonfuls of oil ; 
moisten moderately with vinegar and water mixed, that the 
salad may not be too sour. Several items may be added 
to the j^otato salad, both for flavour and appearance. 
Among these, remember pickled beetroot sliced, a fresh 
cucumber sliced, a Yarmouth bloater or a Dutch herring 
minced small, or a few sardines shredded. 

Our Teutonic kinsmen also make excellent salads of red 
cabbage and celery, of Avhite cabbage, of succory, of peas, 
beans, artichokes, cauliflowers, and young hops before they 
are leafy. Some salads they make with a dressing comjiosed 
of cream instead of oil. They have a supreme salad which 
they call the Polish one, which is made of cold roast game 
or poultry cut into very small dice, seasoned with pepper, 
salt, mustard, and finely minced chives, over which are 
poured equal parts of oil and vinegar. Jn defence of the 
equality in quantity of the second with the first moistening 
ingredient, they urge that poultry and game are stronger 
in flavour than green-meat, and demand a sharper or 
more acid sauce. When the Polish salad has arrived at 
this stage, three csff^s, boiled for three minutes, have 
their yolks stirred in with the meat, while the whites are 



Vy THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

chopped veiy small and added to the inixturo. At the 
time of serving, chopped endive or lettuce is added to 
the whole. 



The Spanish Cuisine. 

The cookeiy of Spain has often been most unjustly dis- 
paraged, but I hope to show in the second part of this work, 
the Recipes, that the Dons can dress a goodh' number of 
dainty dishes. I scarcely think that there could be a 
more appropriate topic for a chat on Iberian cookery, than 
the Aveekly dietar}* of Don (^)uixote. If, however, we wish 
to be accurate in this respect, it is necessary to go to the 
Spanish text of Cervantes, since most of the English versions 
that I possess give curiously conflicting and usually inaccu- 
rate translations of the hebdomadal bill-of-fare of the Knight 
of La Mancha. For example, an ornately illustrated and 
quite '■ up-to-date "' edition of the " Adventures of Don 
Quixote " gives the following as the Don's mcnii : — 

" Soup, composed of somewhat more nnitton than beef, 
the fragments served up cold on most nights ; lentils on 
Fridays ; collops and eggs on Saturdays ; and a pigeon by 
way of addition on Sundays." The Spanish text tells a very 
different story. Therein we read that the Knight of the 
Rueful Countenance fed on an olla — which is a great deal 
more than a soup, and is in reality composed of diti'erent 
sorts of meat and vegetables stewed together; and it takes 
its name from the round earthen pot in which the mess is 
usually prepared. The English translator says that in Don 
Quixote's olla there was 'more mutton than beef": but 
Cervantes himself saj-s just the contrary', namely, that there 
was ' more beef than mutton." Then the translator goes 
on to state that the " fragments " of the soup were served up 
" cold on most niglits." He evidently does not know how to 



GHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 17 

translate the Spanish word salj^icon, ansAvering to our 
"sahnagundi," which is a mixture of chopped meat, eggs, 
anchovies, and red pickled cabbage. You will find a 
recipe for " salpicon " in this book.* Furthermore, Ave are 
told that on Saturdays the Don regaled on " coUops and 
eggs," and in another version — a very old one which I have — 
instead of " collops and eggs " I find " gripes and grumblings," 
as an equivalent for the Spanish duelos y quehrantos. The 
old English expression is a slightly coarse one ; still it comes 
nearer the author's meaning than the modern English version 
does. These duelos y quehrantos Avere the "humbles" of 
animals (you have heard of humble pie), or else the carcases 
of lambs and calves Avhich had died a natural death ; and 
they Avere thus utilised for the making of a modest steA\', 
at Avhich no doubt the shepherds and other farm-ser\'ants 
grumbled as sorely as English school-boys and school-girls 
grumble at Avliat they call " resurrection pie." 

In another portion of the innnortal romance of Miguel de 
Cervantes y Saavedra there is a description of the marriage 
feast of " Camacho the Rich." The first thing Avhich pre- 
sented itself to Sancho's sight Avas a Avhole bullock spitted 
upon a large elm. In six huge pots around, entire sheep 
Avere SAvalloAved up, and floated like so many pigeons. Hares 
ready flayed and foAvls ready plucked hung upon the branches; 
infinite Avere the Avild fowl and venison hanging about. 
Sancho counted three skins, each holding about tAventy- 
four quarts, full of generous Avines ; hillocks, too, he saAv 
of the Avhitest bread, and cheeses Avere piled up in the 
manner of bricks. Naturall}', the feast being a Spanish 
one, there Avere " two cauldrons of oil, larger than dyers' vats," 
Avhich stood ready for frying purposes. There is a touch of 
Rabelais in the Avhole chapter of the Nuptials of Camacho ; 
and Cervantes has more than once been accused of inditing 
in this description of a Avedding feast a sly satire on the pro- 

* See p. 2:>4. 
C 



18 THE THOEOUGH GOOD COOK. 

verbial frugality of his countrymen in the way of eating and 
drinking, and the occasional difficulty which presented — and 
still presents— itself to travellers in Spain of getting anything 
to eat or drink at all. So far as my experience goes, you can 
get along tolerably well in Spain, when you are travelling out 
of the beaten track, if you will only contrive to reach a village 
inn at the time of the midday meal, when the standing dish 
is the natural ijucltero, for which I have given a recipe.* If 
you miss your piichero, I am afraid that 3^ou will not be 
able to obtain, in out-of-the-Avay places, anything more filling 
than chocolate, bread, garlic, and grapes. 



The Scottish Kitchen. 

It is not without some fear and trembling that I, avIio, 
if I am not a Saxon, am at least a cockney " pock-pudding," 
presume to devote a page in this book to the cookery of 
the Land o' Cakes. The shadows of two mighty expositors 
of the Scottish kitchen of the past float before me as I 
address myself to my task. ^Memory recurs to the pages 
of " Waverley " ; and, in imagination, I sit at the ban- 
queting board at which Fergus Mclvor entertained Edward 
AVaverley. Fish, game, and made dishes at the upper end 
of the table; lower down, immense, clumsy joints of 
mutton and beef; but no pork — swine's flesh being abhorred 
in the Highlands. The central dish, a yearling lainb, 
called a " hog in har'st," roasted, set upon its legs, Avith a 
buuch of parsley in its mouth. The beverages, claret and 
champagne for the chief and his guests ; with whisky 
and strong beer for the clansmen. Then I recall the 
breakfast which Lady Margaret Bellenden gave Claverhousc 

* See p. i;!i'. 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. ]9 

in the great liall at Tiilietudlein. No tea, no coffee, no 
variety of rolls and toast and muffins ; but solid and sub- 
stantial viands — tlis priestly ham, the kni^litly sirloin, 
the noble baron of beef, the princely venison 23asty ; while 
silver flagons, saved with difficulty from the claws of the 
Covenanters, mantled, some with ale, some with mead, 
and some with generous Avines of various qualities. And 
Avho, finally, can forget the description of the dinner, in 
*' Old Mortality," of the parsimonious Laird of Milnwood ? 
The immense charger of broth thickened with oatmeal and 
colewort, in which were indistinctly discerned by close 
observers two or three short ribs of lean mutton sailing 
to and fro. There were two huge baskets, one of bread 
made of barley and peas, and one of oat cakes. The 
presence of a large boiled salmon would nowadaj's have 
indicated more liberal housekeeping; but, in the seven- 
teenth centur}^, it was caught in such plenty in the con- 
siderable rivers of Scotland, and the servants found it so 
luscious and so surfeiting, that the}^ made it a bargain 
that they should not have the royal fish oftencr than five 
times a week. 

" He should have a lang-shafted spune that sups pottage 
with the de'il," says the old Scottish proverb ; and he should 
know a great deal about cookery in general, and Scottish 
cookery in j^articular, who presumes to try conclusions 
with Sir Walter Scott and with Professor Wilson. There 
is a vast Avealth of culinary lore scattered both through 
the " Waverley Novels " and the " Noctes Anibrosiana3." 
Indeed, it has been more than once asserted that Sir 
Walter had a hand in compiling the recipes for " Meg 
Dodds' Cookery Book." Still, Southerner as I aiu, I scarcely 
think that I am inaccurate in stating that a Scottish break- 
fast table is about the best supplied one in all Europe. I 
never crossed the Border but once in my life, and then it was 
to pay a visit to the late Mr. Dalgleish, sometime one of the 
c 2 



20 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

members for Glasgow, who had a beautiful estate called 
Kilmardinnie, close to the great city on the Clyde. Such 
breakfasts we used to have at Kilmardinnie ! Fresh trout, 
game pies, cold venison, a baron of beef on the sideboard, 
home-made scones, potato scones, white puddings, and Scotch 
" baps," to say nothing of Dundee marmalade and Scotch 
bannocks. 



Breakfast Dishes. 

Before discussing the important question, What shall we 
have for breakfast ? it is expedient to determine with 
accuracy what is meant by the term " breakfast " itself There 
are breakfasts and breakfasts ; and it so happens that the 
bravest, the honestest, the truthfullest, and the most meat- 
eating peoples under the sun, the Germans and the Britons, 
with their transatlantic descendants and their Australasian 
brethren, are the only races who give the in'oper appella- 
tion to the first meal of the day. We break our fast at eight 
or nine a.m., and we rightly term that ]neal " breakfast." 
Quito as appropriately do the Teutons call their fracture 
of fast Morgenhvod. The Italians ought to say rompere il 
digiuno, Avhen they take their coftee and bread and butter 
in the morning. They prefer to ask simply for their 
early morning cufe, and with them breakfast is la. colu- 
zione. It is in reality our lunch. The lively Gaul's 
dejeuner a la fourcJietfe is also lunch, and not literally the- 
breaking of a fast. Stay : the Spaniards rightly give the 
name of desaijuno to the matutinal cup of chocolate, corrected 
by a glass of cold water and a crust of bread ; but, on the other 
hand, the Anglo-Indian's first meal of tea or cofiee, with a 
little bread and butter, or bread and jam, generally brought to 
the bedside between five and six in the morning, is known as 
cliotahazrl, which means " little breakfast." A big breakfast,. 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 21 

comprising various curries, follows at ten, to be succeeded at 
tu'o p.iii. by a copious tiffin ; but at this repast, and at the 
dinner, which takes place at seven or eight, it is no longer good 
form, in smart Anglo-Indian society, to serve curr}'. But of 
curry I shall have something to say presentl}'.* 

English people eat, as a rule, a great deal too much 
meat and not half enough vegetables. The Australians 
are literally gorgers of beef and mutton ; and it is an equally 
common and painful spectacle to see a little New South 
AVales or a Victorian child devouring mutton chops or 
rump steaks at eight or nine o'clock in the morning. The 
Americans are quite as great sinners in this respect ; and small 
Miss Columbia or diminutive Master Birdofreedora Saurin will 
think nothing of " wolfing " pork-steak, tender loin-steak, and 
mutton cutlets, after the hominy or the crushed wheat, and 
prior to the buckwheat cakes soaked in butter and drenched 
with maple syrup. Our transatlantic cousins have also an 
imholy fondness for fried potatoes at breakfast-time. Of 
their equally passionate liking for hot bread I will say 
nothing; because we also in this country have n j^enchcmt for 
hot buttered toast and hot French rolls. I had a friend once 
Avho prided himself on the possession of a cook unequalled in 
the invention of breakfast dishes. One of these devices was 
to send half a pound of prime Epping or Cambridge sausages 
to the family baker, and request him to insert the sausages 
in the dough of as many rolls. They came home smoking, 
iind saturated with the grease from the porcine compost. 
My friend went to Rome ; and I learned that he succeeded in 
persuading the people at Nazzari's restaurant, in the Piazza 
di Spagna, to supply nuiffins with anchovies inside them. 
This fanatic of the breakfast-table died early, and lies buried 
in the Protestant cemetery at Rome hard by the pyramid of 
Caius Cestius. 

If we banish butchers' meat from breakfast, it remains 
* See p. 28. 



22 THE TIlOTiOUGH GOOD COOK. 

to 1)0 seen what viands I propose to put on the table 
at a meal whicli, obeying the laws of this terrible English 
climate of ours, we are bound to make a substantial one. 
Frequently', when I have returned from a long Continental 
journey, I have taken it into my head to ordain that the 
hours of our eating should be a la Franca ise — that is to 
say, cafe an lait and bread and butter at eight a.m.; dejcvncr 
a la fowrcJiette at noon precisely, and dinner at six. The 
experiment, after a week or two, usually turned out a dis- 
astrous failure; the cafe an lait, somehow or other, never 
seemed so good as it is in France ; and an hour after it was 
consumed we Avere ravenous for food. The tAvelve o'clock 
collation is really an enjoyable meal, and Ave Avere quite 
ready for dinner at six ; only, unfortunately, if Ave asked 
any of our friends to dine Avith us at that hour, they 
Avould stare Avitli astonishment, and perhaps plead that they 
had a prior engagement. So Ave had to go back to our 
old time-table — breakfast at nine, lunch at half-jjast one or 
tAvo, tea at fiA^e o'clock, and dinner at eight. AVe ahvays 
regarded the last as being more of a social ceremonial than 
a " square " meal ; the late dinner Avith us Avas an act of 
thankfulness for the day's Avork being done, and of our 
being able to throw oft" the cares of business, and chat cosily 
and light-heartedl}'. Wo ate very little, but liked the little 
to be tasty. 

With regard, hoAvever, to breakfast, it should be, although 
excluding chops and steaks and cold meat, a hearty one ; 
and nothing else Avill ever do to begin the day Avith, in 
this land of fog and darkness, rain and raAvness, and omni- 
present smoke. Thus an English breakfast nicnn should 
include kedgeree, at least one of ten kinds of omelettes ; 
sausages; eggs, fried, boiled, poached, scrambled, and an 
niiroir; smoked salmon (the Dutch is the best, suK^ked 
by the Jews : it is horribly dear, but delicious), potted 
shrimps, bloaters, or eggs and bacon, kippers, fried sardines. 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 23 

now and then a little potted meat, dry toast (avoid buttered 
toast), and plenty of bread and butter, tea, coffee, or cocoa. 
When you have young and lady guests, marmalade and 
honey should make their appearance at the board ; and when 
you have any male friends with '• hunters' appetites," bid 
Mrs. Cook send them uj:) broiled chicken and devilled kidneys 
arranged in various ways. Mushrooms and bacon are like- 
wise a very favourite dish, and, of course, among the dried 
fish figures the homely haddock, and among the fresh tish, 
plain boiled sole, whiting, and mackerel — but don't cat 
mackerel too often. 

Finally, I must say something about breakfast which 
should have been said at the beG^innins^ of this chat. Break- 
fast should invariably be prefaced with fruit. I do most 
firmly and abidingly hold with the Spanish proverb, that 
the gifts of Pomona are gold in the morning, silver at 
noon, and lead at night. Many folks cannot always afford 
grapes ; but oranges in their season — we are not half enough 
grateful for oranges — are usually wonderfully cheap ; and if 
the golden fruit fail us, we have always the apple with 
us, be it from Kent, from Devon, from America, or from 
Tasmania — the toothsome, handsome, sociable, health-pre- 
serving apple. 



Salads. 

About salads, one of the most delightful and the healthiest 
of Heaven's gifts to man, many pages could be Avritten ; 
but in this place brevity is necessary, and will be observed. 
I cannot refrain, however, from referring to Sydney Smith's- 
oft-quoted " Recipe for a Winter Salad," originally written 
in an album at Castle Howard. All my readers may not 
have read this famous formida, so I o^ive it : — 



24 THE TIIOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

"Two large potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve, 
Unwonted softness to the sah^d give. 
Of niordant mustard add a single spoon — 
Distrust the condiment which bites too soon — 
But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault 
To add a double quantity of salt. 
Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown. 
And once with vinegar procured from town. 
True flavour needs it, and your poet begs 
The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs. 
Let onion's atoms lurk within the bowl, 
And, scarce suspected, animate the whole. 
And lastly, on the flavoured componnd toss 
A magic teaspoon of anchovy sauce." 

Now, tlio Rev. Sydney Siiiitli wns a very witty and 
amiable cleric ; but I maintain, nevertheless, that his salad 
is simply a barbarous mess, tit only for the consumption 
of Goths, Ostrogoths, Tisiffoths, Huns, and '\'andals. Two 
large potatoes passed through a kitchen sieve ! Shade of 
Parraentier ! Mordant nuistard in a salad 1 A double 
quantity of salt, and a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce ! As 
for the onion atoms, lurking in the bowl, they are altogether 
intolerable if ladies are to partake of the salad. For male 
consumption a few spring onions may occasionally be allowed. 
The French put no onions in a green salad ; but they rub 
a crust of bread with garlic. This, technically known as 
a cliapon, is placed in the salad bowl, and rapidly tossed 
to and fro while the herbs are being mixed ; but before 
serving, the garlic-imbued chapon is removed. Although 
potatoes in a green salad should be altogether tabooed, the 
tuber makes an excellent salad by itself, and an equal I3" 
good and cheap soup. 

Among very cheap salads, also, I rcconnnend tomatoes 
dressed with oil and vinegar and a little chopped shallot. 
Fifty years ago tomatoes, or " love-apples," were scarce and 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 25 

dear, and were usually sold, preserved in bottles, as sauce 
for hot meat. At present there is usually an ample supply, 
and sometimes a glut, of tomatoes, English or foreign, sold 
at very reasonable prices. The fruit-vegetable — or vegetable- 
fruit — has become amazingly popular with the Avorking- 
classes, who often munch them raw, as they do apples ; 
but they would relish them much more, I think, if they cut 
the tomatoes into slices and dressed them in a salad as 
iibove ; or if they stuffed them with a mixture of chopped 
herbs, any scraps of meat, to the lowliest, that come handy, 
bread-crumb, and a little egg just to bind the stuffing; and so 
steam them till quite hot. And, again, there Avould not be 
the slightest harm in putting the stuffed tomatoes under- 
neath the meat which is to be roasted. They will then prove 
excellent sops-in-the-pan, and a relief to the monotony of 
the baked potato. 

But to return to green salads, as to the dressing of which 
people are apt to be very dogmatical, and occasionally very 
ill-tempered. Most men have their recipe for salad dressing, 
just as nearly every woman has her own recipe for a plum 
pudding, which recipe is, in nine cases out of ten, that 
wdiich was used by her mother. 

Some hold with simple lettuce, just moistened all over 
with vinegar and dusted with sugar. Another method that 
has been dogmatically insisted upon as the only orthodox 
one, is to wipe each leaf of lettuce dry ; then to bring plenty 
of oil in contact with every part of the surface, finishing 
with the smallest dash of vinegar and a dust of salt. This, 
minus the salt, is my own dressing for lettuce salad; but 
when I have guests I allow fantasy to have some slight sway 
in the salad-bowl. A favourite Parisian top-dressing is to 
place a few fresh-water crayfish on the summit of the 
verdure. Crayfish form a very jiretty garnish indeed for 
all fish salads ; but when the crayfish are scarce and dear, 
decorate with shrimps or prawns. 



26 THE TIIOEOUGIl GOOD COOK. 



Macaroni, Risotto, and Polenta. 

I want to expatiate briefly on three staples of Italian 
good clieer — macaroni, risotto, and polenta. As a rule, 
English cooks nse macaroni barbaroi^-sly. Usually, tbey 
either over-boil or under-boil it ; and when it comes to table 
it resembles either so many tobacco pipes with the bowls 
knocked oft', or so mncli " Stickphast " boiled, and garnished 
wdth badly grated cheese. I have known cooks who boiled 
macaroni in milk ; and, sad to say, I have had gnests who 
onght to have known better (ictuaUi/ ask for mustard ivitJi 
their macaroni Benighted beings 1 

With respect to risotto, it may be hinted that the Milan- 
ese add a little saftron to it, for the double purpose of giving 
it an attractive hue, and of correcting the tendency of rice to 
swell and impede digestion. The Romans often mingle with 
their risotto either sausage-meat, or a mince of chicken livers,, 
or very finely shredded cooked bacon. You will find from the 
recipes* what risotto is, and 3'ou or your cook can indulge 
your fancy by adding what tasty things you like to the 
fundamental preparation of rice, butter, and grated cheese. 
Any cold meat you have left, or remains of made dishes, may 
be utilised for risotto ; and any kind of cheese, cheap or dear,, 
that is hard enough to grate, will serve instead of Parmesan. 
If, for example, you take the dark 3'ellow, strong-flavoured 
Gloucester cheese, you need not use so nuich saftron, which 
some might object to as a kind of "doctor's stuft'"; but in 
any case I advise young housekeepers of moderate means 
to try macaroni and risotto, the accessories to both of which 
are very cheap. For the little ones, of course, macaroni 
boiled in milk, or made into a sweet pudding, with custard,, 
.and lightly baked, will prove a delicious and wholesome dish. 
And, while we are on the pudding subject, let me remind 

* See Ir.dex to Recipes. 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 27 

mothers who wish to give their children a change in the way 
of sweet diet, tiiat a half-quartern loaf boiled in milk till it 
swells to twice its size, and served with stewed primes, is 
a dish that will delight the voungsters, and be very good 
for their health besides. If they " kick " at the stewed 
prunes, give them stewed pears, nicely coloured Avith a little 
cochineal. 

And now for polenta. This is nothing but Indian corn- 
flour, easy enough, in all conscience, to procure. Polenta is 
the food of high and low throughout Italy. King Victor 
Emanuel once, recovering from a severe illness, and being 
asked what nourishment would be most grateful to him, re- 
plied naturally, " A bowl of polenta."' You may cook it by drop- 
ping into three pints of boiling water three-quarters of a pound 
of semolina, maize, or corn-flour ; then boil the liquid to the 
consistency of very thick gruel ; lubricate with a pat of 
butter, and season with pepper and salt. The only drawback 
of polenta-eating is that a couple of hours after devouring 
tAvo or three bowls of it you feel hungry again. There is a 
polenta for the luxurious, in which may be mingled blanched 
and fried sweetbreads, with mushrooms, and even truflles : 
the whole beinsf moistened with brown sauce and o-arnished. 
with forcemeat balls, egged-and-bread-crumbed, and lightly 
fried. 

A favourite way of serving polenta is in combination 
with small birds, larks or thrushes for mstance. The polenta 
is boiled to the consistency of a batter pudding, say half an 
inch thick, and is cut into the shape of a hollow circle or, 
better still, of a horseshoe. On this circular band you 
place your little birds at regular intervals. In the centre 
of the dish put a circular medallion of polenta, with three 
birds arranged in a ]i3'ramid. 



23 THE THOBOUGII GOOD COOK. 



Curry. 

Indian cooks arc often less expert in making entrees 
and sauces from French recipes than Enghsh professed 
€Ooks are. But they cannot be matched for curry, which, 
^however, curiously enough, makes its appearance, nowadays, 
mora frequently at breakfast than at titiin or dinner at 
Anglo-Indian tables. English people scarcely understand 
the rudimentary principles of this noble dish — essentially 
Indian — since curry-stuff has no place in the Mohammedan 
{■liisine as practised in Turkey, in Persia, and in Egypt, 
At home, Avhen a curry is ordered, the cook sends to the 
nearest shop for a bottle of curry-powder — we do not 
blame her for that; a stew of some kind of tish or 
poultry is made ; some curry-powder — generally a great 
•deal too much — is shovelled into the mess, which is 
:sent up to table in a dish with a border of rice, so badly 
boiled as to be either slimy, or stick}^, or water}-. In India, 
the making and serving of curry are solemn and elaborate 
proceedings. The curry-stuft' is compounded fresh every 
morning ; one kind is composed of cardamoms, coriander 
seeds, black and cayenne pepper, cunnnin seed, pale turmeric, 
cloves, cinnamon, and fenugreek ; another and highly 
approved currj^-powder is made of cayeimc, mustard, fenu- 
greek, allspice, turmeric, salt, cinnamon, and green ginger. 
The rice should be Avashed in several waters, left in a basin 
of cold water for three hours before boiling, and when "done," 
should be carefully strained through a colander, and then 
as carefully " garbled " with a fork, so that every individual 
grain of rice should be separate from its neighbour. 

Curry is served at the end of the savouries and before 
•the sweets. First, a bowl of rice is brought in, from which 
each guest helps himself. Then comes the curry itself in 
a large dish, divided into as many compartments as there 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 29- 

are kinds of curry to be served ; for the list of Indian 
curries comprises " Lord Clive," " Malay," " Dry Madras,'" 
"J. P.," "Mrs. W.," for sweetbread, prawn, lobster, fish, 
vegetables, and mulligatawny, to say nothing of " pish-pash,"' 
"devil-pot," and hard eggs. The serving of curry, however,, 
is still incomplete. It must be accompanied by chutney,, 
one kind of which is made of stoned raisins, garlic, shallot,, 
chillies, mustard, salt, and sour apples all pounded together,, 
with brown suo-ar and vineo^ar. 

There is another chutney made of tamarinds, tomatoes,, 
lemon-peel, raisins, mustard, chillies, treacle, and vinegar. 
There is, furthermore, an exquisite chutney made in Ceylon, 
as a zest for the equally exquisite and famous Cingalese 
prawn-curry, which is one of the many glories of the 
capital cuisine of the Grand Oriental Hotel at Colombo. 
Into the composition of this fascinating condiment, grated 
cocoanut and pounded chillies enter largely ; and the huo 
of the engaging substance is a delicate pink. The object 
of all these inventions is to heighten the temperature of 
the curry itself in a greater or lesser degree, according 
to taste. (English curries, by the way, are almost in- 
variably too hot ; they are usually as fiery as whitebait 
in the "red-devil" stage.) In addition, there 'may be served 
with the curry the carefully dried and salted slips of fish 
facetiously known as " Bombay ducks " ; and again, at 
Colombo, there is brought with the curry another adden- 
dum, somewhat resembling the " ratafie " of the Emperor 
Akbar, being a thin, almost transparent cake, about the- 
size of a cheese-plate, and called " popodam." To the 
uninitiated, this Cingalese dainty has a suspicious resem- 
blance to a mixture of oatmeal and petroleum. It is made 
really of " dhall," or " doll " (ground pulse), and " ghee " 
(liquefied butter), compounded with asafa?tida, which 
loses its odious smell in cooking, and could well be modified 
in England by a mixture of potato flour and fresh butter.. 



30 THE THOEOUGH GOOD COOK. 

Finally, ciiriy should never be eaten with a knife and fork, 
but "with a fork and spoon. If the globe-trotters returning 
from the burning land of India would teach us to eat 
curry as the Anglo-Indians eat it ; if they would only tell 
us something about Madras anchovy toast ; about " Agha's 
beard," and " country captain ' : about cocoa-nut pudding, 
yam pudding, cocoa-nut soup, and cucumber preserve, they 
might at least lay the foundation of an English tiffin a 
hundred times more appetising and more wholesome than 
the monotonous dishes Avhich weary ns at luncheon, in this 
land of fogs, poor cookery, indigestion, and the " blues." 



What shall we do with the Scraps? 

M. Octave Suzanne was once so courteous as to send me, 
from the Place Parmentier, Xeuilly, near Paris, a copy of a 
little book of a hundred and seventy pages, ]3urporting to be 
the third series of his " Petite Encyclopedic C'ldinaire," being 
"Cent Cinquante Manieres d'Utiliser les Restes"; a concise 
little manual for the use of housekeepers who are at a loss 
to know how to make dainty dishes out of scraps. I read 
the manual from beginning to end with great interest, and I 
hope with some benefit to myself, in which benefit I now 
wish my readers to share. The author good-naturedly tra- 
verses Poileau's famous assertion — to be sure, the i^rcat 
satirist made it in verse, and poets are apt to be somewhat 
arbitrary in their statements — that a dinner warmed up 
again was never good for anything, ^f. Suzanne }»roves to 
demonstration that when a dinner, or what remains of it, is 
re-cooked with skill and discrimination, " metamorphosed 
.Avith taste, and presented under an appetising form," it can 
be made quite as good, if not better than it was in its 
original shape. 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 31 

Thus the author of the " Little CuHnaiy Encyclopaedia " 
tells us how to " accommodate "' the " restes," or scraps of 
beef, mutton, veal, poultry, game, tish, and even of bread. 
Let us see how he deals with the staff of life. The house- 
holds must be few in which there will not be found remains 
of the bread of yesterday, or of the day before 3'esterday. 
These stale crusts may be made into " panada," by putting 
the bread broken into bits into a stew-pan, covering it with 
water, and steaming it with salt and pepper. The bread 
must be allowed to soak for twenty minutes ; then the stew- 
pan is put on the fire, and stirred with a wooden spoon until 
it boils. An ounce of butter is now added, and the "panada" 
is allowed to simmer gently for an hour. Just before serving, 
another piece of butter must be added, and the yolks of three 
eggs. If you like, you may moisten your "panada" with 
broth or with milk, instead of water. 

" Klossen," German fashion, may be made from A'ery 
stale bread soaked in hot milk, then drained and put into a 
stewpan with butter. It is seasoned with salt, pepper, 
and ginger ; then it is made into little rolls, poached or 
steamed, and finally these are served up in the form of a 
pyramid, accompanied by any one of a long list of sauces, 
the composition of which M. Suzanne exactly prescribes. 
You may have over your stale bread-rolls Spanish, Becha- 
mel, mayonnaise, Tartar, ravigote, mustard, mint, horse- 
radish, curr}^ tomato, piquante, or Maitre d'Hotel sauce, 
AVith a little hunger, which is the best sauce of all, " Klossen " 
will be found, I should say, a very appetising dish. 

Finally, the stalest of stale bread can be utilised by 
grating it, and passing it through a tammy for use in egging 
and bread-crumbing cutlets and rissoles. M. Suzanne has in 
his manual half a dozen recij^es for making bread puddings, 
in the French, German, and English manners. He has 
also had the good sense to imjDort into his voluiiie a capital 
recipe for that truly British dish, bubble-and-squeak, and 



32 TEE THOROrGE GOOD COOK. 

another for toad-in-the-hole : althou<:;h, I may hint to 
hiu], in connection with the last-named dainty, that on the 
Continent I have frequently met with a mutton cutlet baked 
or fried in batter, but served singly, and called a cutlet " a la 
Nelson." He seems equally well acquainted with our dry 
and buttered toast, with chicken-and-ham sandwiches, and 
even Avith water-zootje, which, he aptly observes, may, in 
the case of salmon, be served cold as well as hot. I dissent^ 
however, from my esteemed confrere when he says that a 
mayonnaise sauco should be served apart, with cold water- 
zootje of salmon. If the zootje, or the liquor in which the 
salmon has been boiled, with a diversity of herbs, have a 
eflass of white wine added to it, it Avill need no kind of sauce 
at all beyond cayenne or Nepaul pepper. Many of these 
hundred and fifty recipes for turning the scraps to account 
arc familiar to English plain cooks ; but there are many 
more which will be of the nature of a revelation to British 
housekeepers. 



Hasli. 

" In the name of the Prophet — Hash ! " It should, of 
course, properly be " figs," but that does not matter, since 
the Turks make very nice hashes of lamb and poultry ; 
but the hash with which I have to do is the dish popular 
in English middle-class households, and even more widely 
patronised in the United States, where, in the Norths at 
least, the colloquial name for what is laiown in England 
as a " Qfentecl boardinsj- establishment " is a " hash-house." 

It is a sufficiently curious fact, to begin with, that 
although the word hash is undeniably derived from the 
French Jiachi'^, and Molioro speaks of a glutton who 
devoured two partridges and half a leg of mutton en 
hachis, the specitic term rarely appears in modern French 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 33 

bills of fare: and, indeed, old French cookery-books, in 
their recipes for a hachif^, prescribe what seems to be a 
kind of stew of meat, cut up very small, mingled with 
sausage-meat, chopped parsle}^ and onions, and served 
with a garnish, sometimes of fried eggs, and sometimes of 
tomatoes. The French kitchen also comprises hoidettes 
of very finely chopped meat, herbs, and seasoning, which 
are browned in a stewpan and served with a rich sauce, 
into the composition of which garlic largely enters. These 
hoidettes would seem to be cousins - german to the 
American dainties known as " hash-balls," which are com- 
posed of minced cold roast meat, mixed with cold boiled 
potatoes chopped; seasoned with pepper and salt, and a 
little gravy, made into balls, covered with egg and bread 
crumb, and fried a light brown in butter, lard, or dripping, 
As regards the British middle-class hash, it is tittinsr 
that I should briefly give my own personal experiences of 
the matter — experiences which go back more than fifty 
years. My mother, who had a large family to keep on 
very slender means, had all her children, boys and girls 
alike, systematically and jn-actically taught to cook. She 
was a West Indian, and in the old slave-owning da^-s the 
West Indies were a paradise of good cookery. She was the 
widow of an Italian gentleman, and there are very few 
Italians who do not interest themselves in culinary matters. 
I was a sickly, nervous child, and could not stand the 
fierce heat of a kitchen range. The most arduous culinary 
labour which I ventured to undertake was the cookino- 

o 

of a couple of kidneys, or some bacon, or a spitful of larks 
in a Dutch oven before the fire ; but I was not a bad 
hand at making sauces ; and, above all, I was proficient 
in the preparation of hash, which — don't be shocked — I 
have cooked scores of times in our drawing-room on the 
first floor of Number something. Regent's Quadrant, when 
William IV. was KiuGf. 



34 THE TIIOBOITQH GOOD COOK. 

The way of it was this: — We often had a roast leg of 
mutton on Sunday. Monday avc ate it cold ; Tuesday Avas 
hash-day. My mother used to be away every day from 
eleven till four, giving lessons in Italian singing to the 
nobility and gentry, but before she went out on hash-days 
I was put through my paces in the initial stages of hash- 
, making. When she saw me carefully occupied in cutting 
the cold mutton into thin slices, seasoning them with salt 
and pepper, and dredging a little flour over them, she would 
give me a kiss and depart on her daily toil. I let the 
sliced mutton rest till noon, and read my book. Then 
I proceeded to cook in a stew-pan a finely minced onion, 
lubricated with a bit of butter, moistened with half a pint 
of beef gravy stock, or with some " glaze." The flavouring- 
was sometimes a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, or quite 
as often some burnt onions, which, however, I carefidly 
removed from the stew-pan when the sauce Avas cooked. 
Then my slices of nnitton Avcnt into a large stCAv-pan, 
Avhich I simmered — oh, so gently — till the flour Avith Avhich 
I dredged the meat had thickened the sauce ; then I 
drcAV tlie steAv-]5an on to the hob, and left it there, still 
gently, gently cooking in its various juices ; and then I 
read my book till my mother came home. MeauAvhile, 
her maid had laid the table for us tAvo — for all my brothers 
and sisters Avere aAvay from home during seA'eral years of 
my childhood. AVhen my parent arrived, she took the 
steAV-pan from the hob, and put it on the fire to give it 
that final boil up Avhich I Avas too small and too inex- 
perienced to impart to it. It is only the hand of the master 
or mistress-cook that is skilful enough to administer that 
final boil up ; but I had not been Avasting my time, for I 
had carefully toasted some bread, and cut the sippets to 
.be placed round the hash, Avlien it Avas poured into a 
hot dish, to be heartily and gratefully partaken of by 
the poor AvidoAved gentlcAVoman and your humble servant. 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 35 

This is why I have always been interested in hash, 

and have ventured to tell von somcthino' about it in 
my Cookery Book. 



Old-Fashioned Puddings. 

I was turning over the other day that very interesting 
manual of cookery called " Kettncr's Book of the Table," 
the recipes in which are due to the late M. Kettner, who 
who was once, I believe, cJief to Leopold, King of the 
Belgians, and who established that very Avell-known re- 
staurant, the Hotel du Pavilion, in Church Street, Soho. The 
literary portion of Kettner's book was contributed by my 
deceased friend E. M. Dallas, of the Times, who was himselt 
a technical expert in culinary matters. For the benefit of 
those who are fond of chestnuts, I will give, roughl}^, the 
recipe for a Nesselrode pudding, according to Kettner-Dallas. 

So many chestnuts peeled, blanched in boiling water for 
five minutes, deprived of their thickened skin ; placed in 
stew-pan with syrup and a stick of vanilla : simmered till 
the chestnuts are done, when they are drained, and pressed 
through a line hair sieve ; add 3'olks of eggs, boiled cream, 
pounded sugar, a gill of maraschmo, stoned raisins ; put 
all in a freezing-pot on the ice, add currants and raisins, 
put the pudding in an ice-mould, imbed the mould in 
ice, and let it remain for two hours.* 

What has all this to do with old-fashioned puddings ? 
my readers may ask. Everything, I ansAver. Mr. Dallas 
tells us that Nesselrode pudding was iuA'cnted many years 
ago by Mony, chef to the renowned Russian diplomatist 
Count Nesselrode, the statesman who had the impu- 
dence to call Italy a '-'geographical expression." AVhen 
Careme heard of this, which is perhaps the most perfect 
* For further details, see p. 42fl. 
D 2 



38 THE TIIOEOUGJf GOOD COOK. 

of iced-puddings, he almost burst with envy. Ho could 
not but praise the pudding ; but he declared that ^lony 
had taken the idea of it from the chestnut pudding in- 
vented by himself. As a matter of fact, neither Mony nor 
Careme invented the chestnut pudding, any more than they 
invented the sempstress's thimble or the mariner's compass. 
^I find a capital recipe for a chestnut pudding in the " Art 
of Cookery," by dear old Mistress Hannah Glasse ; and the 
first edition of her immortal work was published in the 
year 1747, at least a hundred years before Nesselrode pudding 
came into fashion. The only material difference between 
Hannah's recipe and Kettner's is that the lady prescribes 
orano-e-flower or rose-water in lieu of vanilla, and sack 
(or sherry) instead of maraschino ; and finally, her" pudding 
is served hot. On the other hand, were it iced, it would 
be, to all intents and purposes, a Nesselrode pudding. 

I don't say that even Hannah invented the chestnut- 
pudding. Most of the very nicest dishes in the world's 
cuisine are of such immense antiquity as utterly to bafile 
the researches of the culinary antiquarian. Nobody knows 
the origin of Sauce Robert ; or can tell after Avhat Queen 
Potage a la Heine was first called. The original Robert 
may have been Robert Ic Diablo, and the original Queen, 
Cleopatra. 

The Wise Man told us ages ago that there is nothing 
new under the sun ; and I have long been, after sedulous 
study, both theoretical and practical, of cookery and of 
culinary literature, strongi}' of the opinion that, in the art 
in question, no discoveries of any great importance have 
been made since the middle of the eighteenth century, 
except the general utilisation of the tomato in cookery, and 
the general employment of the potato as an adjunct to 
savoury dishes. Beyond these two items, with the trifling 
one of scadvale, I fail to see that we have added anything 
of much moment to our culinary arsenal. The Romans 



GHATS' ABOUT COOKERY. 37 

made extensive use of truffles, -which they fantastically im- 
agined to be the product of thunder; and mushrooms were 
so highly esteemed by the ancients as to l;e called the 
" food of the gods." They were also well acquainted with 
hasty pudding, made from maize and milk; and the Car- 
thaginians seem to have indulged in a pudding of red 
wdieat flour, mixed with cream cheese, honey, and eggs. 
In the modern cuisine we have probably at least two 
hundred puddings to which all kinds of fancy names have 
been given ; but if the components of these modern 
puddings are carefully analysed, it will be found, I venture 
to think, that nearly all of them are only ancient puddings 
with modern designations. It is the remembrance of how 
many dainty dishes, Avhich we think quite modern, are of 
very antique lineage that has prompted this " chat '"' on 
^' Old-Fashioned Puddings." 



Confectionery. 

One can scarcely go wrong, I should sa}^, in prefacing a 
little essay on sweetmeats with a reference to Gunter. I 
have before me a trim little octavo, entitled " The Confec- 
tioner's Oracle," containing recipes for dessert on the most 
economical plan for private families, and all founded on the 
actual experiments, during thirty years, of William Gunter. 
The book is dated 1830, and the author must, consequently, 
have been practising the confectioner's art ever since the 
beginning of the century. The frontispiece, moreover, is the 
portrait of Mr. Gunter himself, with his autograph. The 
eonfectioner is a serene little gentleman, with nuitton-chop 
whiskers, and a very tall white cravat, who is sitting at a 
table in his studio surrounded by dainty dishes. 

It is also worthy of remark that the portrait is litho- 



38 THE TIIOnOUGH GOOD COOK. 

graphed by " J. Netlierclift," who possibly wns the father 
of the Avell-known exj^iert in hanchvritint;-. AYhether 
this Mr. Wilhani Gunter had any connection "with the 
historic firm of confectioners and caterers still flourishing in 
Berkeley Square and in Belgravia, I have not the remotest 
idea ; but his education, to judge from the preface to 
,his Oracle, certainly does not seem to have been neglected. 
He begins his preface with the remark that " in this 
countrj' the art of confectionery has hitherto, for the 
most part, been surrounded with as many mysteries as the 
temple of Osiris used to be among the ancient Egyptians, 
or as the craft of freemasonry is at the present day." 
Gunter quotes Yirgil, Horace, and Metastasio in the 
original tongues. He speaks enthusiastically ot Tommy 
Moore as ''■ the exquisite ]Moore," and fancies that the diet 
of the poet must have been composed from his childhood 
of meringues, ice cream, and maraschino. " "We have,"' he 
adds, in an off-hand manner, '• a very similar thought 
in Anacreon, as apj^lied by him to an early Greek poet — I 
forget the number of the ode." But Gunter, after dallvino- 
in his preface, and telling his readers how he was in the 
habit of dining Avith that eccentric but amiable and intel- 
ligent man, the late Dr. Kitchiner, in Warren Street, Fitzroy 
Square, and how the doctor said to him, as the dessert made 
its appearance, " Gunter, my friend, for the benefit of mankind, 
you ought to write a book on confectionery as a companion to 
mine on the art of cookery," becomes solidl}- practical, and 
informs his readers how to clarify loaf-sugar, and how to 
classify the dift'erent degrees of sugar as the large and 
small "thread," the " jjearl," the "blow," the "feather," the 
" ball," the " crack," and tlio " caramel." Then he launches 
into pistachios and nut prawlings — " prawlings " is a con- 
fectionery technicality to describe articles preserved from 
humidity by being covered with dry sugar. Next he waxes 
eloquent on fruit pastes, harlequin candy, candied fruits, 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 39 

jellies, syrups, and marmalades, grains of cateclm, vanilla 
cream, and especially ices, among which he mentions green 
grape ice, gunpowder- tea ice, and Indian ice, Avliich last 
is made of the whipped yolks of twenty eggs, with two glasses 
of liquor boiled with syrup in a pan, which is placed in a 
freezing-pan lined with muslin. Gunter adds, in a footnote, 
that in 1830 the " beautiful Mrs. Palmer," in Calcutta, at 
a table of extraordinary magnificence, was remarkable for 
the quantity and tasteful variety of ices which she in- 
troduced. 

The confectionery recijDes which I have given* are not 
exclusively from Gunter ; I have drawn on several French 
and English works, ancient and modern, on the subject, and 
have tried to simplify the recipes ; and among the most lucid 
of the books which I have consulted, I find Jarrin's " Italian 
Confectioner," published in 1829, and "French Confectionery 
Adapted for English Families," by Miss Crawford, published 
in 1853. 



Pies, Fatties, and Tarts. 

There are only three nations in the world that know 
how to make proper puddings. If in turning over your 
cookery-books you chance to come across recipes for Dutch 
pudding, Spanish pudding, Russian pudding, and the like, 
put no trust in those formulas ; they are mainly frauds. 
The Briton, the Teuton, and the American alone possess 
the art of pudding making. AVhen, however, it comes to 
a question of ])ies, patties, and tarts, I am afraid that John 
Bull is equalled by some nations, and surpassed by others, 
in the secret of appetisingly combining meat, game, fish, or 
fruit with paste or crust. 

Possibly in days gone by the English venison pasty was 

* See "Sweet?," pp. 402-44i. 



40 THE TnOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

supreme In its excellence. Pepys, who was a tlioroughgoing 
epicure, makes frequent allusions in his Diary to a veni- 
son pasty as the solitary dish at a dinner which he distinctly 
states to have been a ver}^ good one ; but in modern England 
the venison pasty is scarcely ever seen, save at hunting 
breakfasts, at the seats of country squires. The raised pie, 
^when it does find a place in the modern bill of fare, is 
usually of game or oi foie gms truffled. Turkey pie, again, a 
very noble form of pasty, is all but obsolete ; and the same 
may be said of that once universal ftivourite, goose pie. King 
George IV., according to the CJironique Bcandaleuse, was 
lunching on goose pie and Dublin whisk}^ on board the Royal 
yacht in Kingstown Harbour Avhen a messenger from London 
entered the cabin and informed his Majesty that Queen 
Caroline Avas dead. " Is she ? by Jove ! " exclaimed the 
amiable monarch, and went on eating goose-pie. 

Although raised pies have in ordinary life been almost 
entirely superseded by pies made in dishes and covered with 
a, cupola of crust, the castellated pie, or "coffin," as our 
ancestors used to call it, still holds its oAvn at the hunting 
breakfasts aforesaid and at fashionable suppers ; while 
curiously enough, our old partiality for the raised pasty 
as a kind of national dish still dimly survives in those most 
convenient and palatable edibles, the Watling and Melton- 
Mowbray pork pies, which are really pasties or raised 
pies in miniature. In one respect they may be considered 
more relishable than their mediaeval prototypes, since the 
cheap and modest little pork pie up-to-date — an entire one 
may be purchased for eightpence — contains between the 
undercrust and the pork itself a layer of aspic or jelly, which 
does not seem to have been an ingredient in the ancient 
pasties. 

. The American pie, when composed of meat, is, of course, 
covered with a crust ; and pigeon pie, or one made of 
" squabs," is a standing dish at most transatlantic table 



CHATS ABOUT COOKEIIY. 41 

d'hotes. The transatlantic fruit pie, on the other hand, is 
rarely covered, although the Americans persist in calling- 
it pie or " poy," and are passionately fond of it. Britishers 
"would usually call it a tart Avith a thick under-crust. 
Pumpkin pie may be considered as the essentially national 
type of pastry and fruit in which brother Jonathan delights, 
iinless indeed you question the right of the pumpkin to be 
called a fruit at all ; in which case I must bring to your 
notice huckleberry-pie, cranberr3'-pie, and pear-pie, all of 
which we should term fruit tarts. 

In noticing, however, the decline and fall of the venison 
pasty, it would be unjust to ignore the Continental survival of 
the raised pie in the shape of the alwa3^s welcome " Yol-au- 
Yent," a piece of pastry for which, since it presents consider- 
able difficulty to the cook, I append here a seriously 
thought-out recipe. Having prepared your puff paste Avith a 
pound of flour and the same of butter, give it five turns, 
moisten the surface of the paste, fold it in tAvo, let it rest five 
minutes, then place it on a floured sheet of paper, and cut 
it to the size required for your " Yol-au-Yent." The paste 
should be cut to a shape for Avhich the cover of a stCAv-pan 
Avill serve very Avell. When cut, turn it out on a baking 
sheet, flute the sides, and make a circular incision on the top, 
half an inch from the circumference, then bake for thirty-five 
minutes. When of a golden brown colour, take it out, open, 
and empty it, slip on a hot dish, and fill your crust Avith a 
ragout composed of lamb's or calf's SAveetbreads in slices, 
scollops of fat li\^er, sliced truffles, mushrooms, cock's-combs, 
and quenelles. Put your ragout in by layers, basting Avith 
broAvn sauce and half a glass of Madeira. Then put on the 
top, Avhich Mrs. Cook may decorate according to her taste and 
fancy. Let the " Yol-au-Yent " have just another Avhiff of the 
oven, and then serve it hot. The quenelles of Avhich I speak 
are merely a forcemeat of minced chicken mixed Avith eggs, 
made into small shapes, and poached in boiling AA-ater. 



42 THE THOnOUGH GOOD COOK. 



Savouries and Tit-Bits. 

I venture to think that there is a mild kind of madness 
prevaiUng among people Avho like nice dinners touching 
savouries, and especially in connection with the stage of the 
repast at which the zests in cpiestion should be served. Over 
and over again have I said in print that when you have 
consumed a well-cooked dinner, and have passed gently and 
satisfactorily from the soujd to the fish, thence to an entree, 
thence to a joint or some game, thence to a special dish of 
vegetables, and linally to the sweets, it is in a sense mon- 
strous to indulge in a savoury, the very taste of which must 
necessarily spoil your appetite for dessert. How on earth can 
you enjoy the exquisite flavour of jieaches and grapes and 
pine-apples, or good sound British apples, when your tongue 
has only a minute or two previously been excited by cayenne 
pepper or curry powder, or some other condiment used in 
confecting these confounded savouries ? Why do you eat 
them ? Our fathers used to devour devilled toast and pick 
the burnt flesh from devilled bones after dinner and while 
they were drinking their wine, and they did so in order to 
provoke an artificial thirst which would stimulate them to 
drink more wine. But delicate ladies and moderately drink- 
ing gentlemen, who have not the slightest desire to swill 
wine after dessert, have surely no need of savouries at the 
end of dinner. 

I know perfectly well, however, that when a lady has 
made up her mind to anything, that thing has got to be 
done ; and so I have carefully selected some recipes for 
savouries. To discover them in the best sources of culinary 
information has been no easy task. They are almost entirely 
ignored by such illustrious masters of the gastronomic art as 
Udo and Gareme. Even in a work so modern as Kettner's- 



CHATS ABOUT COOKEBY. 43 

"Book of the Table/' the late Mr. Dallas observes, on 
the subject of hors d'oiuvres or savouries, "There Avas a 
time when these little articles demanded a good deal of 
attention, but they are now of the smallest account, and 
are little more than the trifles — prawns, olives, radishes, an- 
chovies — which keep the customer occupied at the restaurant 
while the dinner he has ordered is getting read}^" Kettner's 
" Book of the Table " was published about twenty years ago, 
but the fashion in savouries has changed in a most capricious 
manner since Mr. Dallas's time. If you dine at a grand hotel, 
say at the Albemarle, the Berkeley, or the Royal Palace Hotel, 
Kensington, your relishes — anchovies, radishes, olives, Italian 
salads, and what not — wdll be served as a prelude to your 
dinner ; but at dinners in private life, the, to me, objection- 
able savoury comes between the sweet and the dessert. In 
the name of common sense, why ? When I have friends 
to dinner I feel compelled to submit myself to this silly 
fashion, simply because it is my endeavour to study other 
people's tastes rather than my own, and I shrink from laying 
down laws which I am well aware would be only reluctantly 
obeyed, if they were obeyed at all. 

If you like to be sensible and take your relishes as an 
overture and not a finale to your dinner, as the French, the 
Germans, the Scandinavians, and the Russians do, let me 
recommend, in summer-time, as an admirable zest, a good 
slice of melon, not dressed Avith sugar, but with pepper and 
salt. Likewise, allow me most strongly to direct your atten- 
tion to pickled tunny. They will give you tunny as a hovs 
cVceiivre at the " Star and Garter" at Richmond, and at the 
" Greyhound," Hampton Court, and you should be able to 
procure the article itself at Barto Yalle's, or at any good 
Italian warehouse. 

There is also a favourite hot hors d'oeuvre, to be served 
at the end of dinner, called the " Madison Canape," which will 
be found in that great treasure-house of cuhnary lore, the 



4-t THE TnOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

" Delmonico C-ook Book," of which I have ah'eady spoken. 
" Madison canapes "' are httle sKces of toast, covered with 
thin shces of lean cooked ham, over Avhich is spread a 
little mustard. Then you add a layer of garnishing of 
" a la Proven^ale," a little butter with a dash of white 
wine. More grated Parmesan is dredged on the canape, and 
, fresh bread-crumbs and a little more butter are strcAvn over 
all. Place in a hot oven for ten minutes, and serve on a 
folded napkin. 



Potatoes. 

Madame de Staiil said that she did not believe in 
ghosts, but that she was afraid of them. Not much more 
paradoxical is it, I hope, for me to say that, although I do 
not believe in potatoes, I recognise their great value in 
the alimentation of humanity. The potato has, I suppose, 
some nourishing qualities. Cobbett denied that fact alto- 
gether, and called the potato "hogs' food." Still, it is 
sutficiently filling as an article of human diet. Its taste, 
although insipid, is not disagreeable ; and it is wholesome 
when it is eaten ripe. 

New potatoes should be cautiously dealt with, since they 
contain an appreciable quantity of solanine — a vegetable 
alkaloid very bitter and acrid, and highly poisonous. I 
have heard, too, that what is called Elbe sherry is distilled 
from potatoes. So the tuber Avhich I so heartily detest 
has its potable as well as its edible properties. I candidly 
admit that my dislike for this particular vegetable has 
become, in my mind, somewhat of a craze. I happened to 
belong to a very delightful little club in London Avhere you 
have the advantage, if you choose to avail yourself of it, 
of seeing your dinner cooked. This club has amongst its 



CHATS ABOUT COOKE BY. 45 

members a goodly number of accomplished gourmets, and 
I fear I have been designedly teased into a state of exas- 
peration by references among my friends to a boiled potato. 
It is to me what the red rag is to a bull. 

The potato as an article of food in England, is, com- 
paratively speaking, a modern innovation. We ha^'o heard 
all about Sir "Walter Raleigh's plantations in Ireland ; but 
I prefer to read how Raleigh, having planted potatoes in 
his garden at Youghal, was the cause of bitter disappoint- 
ment to his gardener, who, on tasting the apples of the fine 
American fruit, found them very nasty. He subsequently 
discovered that the tubers were edible, and he was there- 
upon desired by his master to " throw away the useless 
weeds." Would that ho had thrown them away for good 
and all ! 

Moreover, at the period when Shakespeare spoke of "the 
sky raining potatoes," they were never used as an accom- 
paniment to butcher's meat, or poultry, or any other favourite 
dish. Gerard, the Elizabethan herbalist, who had himself 
procured the plant from Virginia, especially recommends it 
as the basis for delicate conserves and restorative SAveet- 
meats, with the assurance that its flatulent effects may be 
infallibly corrected by having the roots sopped in wine ; 
adding that, to give the tubers the greater grace in eating, 
they should be boiled with prunes. 

Wishing, however, to be altogether impartial, and trans- 
posing the old proverbial axiom, I fully recognise the fact 
that what ma}' be one man's poison may be another's 
meat. Thus, for the benefit of those Avho like potatoes, I 
have given a few recipes for the dressing of them, Avhich 
I think will be serviceable."^ Let me add here another mode 
of dressing potatoes as they have, for a hundred 3-ears past, 
been served at Lyons, in France. Cut your potatoes in slices 
of the circumference of a halfpenny, but twice as thick as 

* Soe Index to Recipes. 



46 THE TIIOBOUGJI GOOD COOK. 

that coin. Put half a pound of butter in a saute-pan with 
thirty button onions cut in rings. Place on the fire, and 
when the onions take a golden colour, ])ut in your potatoes, 
seasoned with chopped parsley, salt, lemon -juice, and a 
good pinch of black pepper. Stir while they fry ; when 
they become a deep yellow, serve. 



Eggs. 

Victor Hugo was accustomed to say that there were few 
things more inherently equivocal than an egg, and that he 
never broke the shell of one without a dim apprehension 
that the unex23ected might suddenly make its appearance. 
It is certain that very strange things have from time to time 
come out of eggs, in addition to the chicken Avhich they 
should normally produce. 

When the luxury of the Second Empire was at its 
height, and the practice of giving Easter eggs was carried 
to an unheard-of degree of extravagance, it is said 
that Mademoiselle Hortense Schneider, the once renowned 
heroine of opera-bouffe, received a Paschal present pur- 
jDorting to be an egg, of such huge dimensions that it had 
to be carried upstairs by two stout porters. On being opened 
it was found to contain an elegant Victoria drawn by two 
cream-coloured ponies. 

But it is only of eggs in connection with cookery that 
I am at present treating, and I am bound solemnly to admit 
that English people rarely do sufficient culinar}^ justice to 
the appetising offerings of Dame Partlet the hen. Boiled 
eggs for breakfast, fried or poached with bacon or ham, 
hard-boiled eggs in salad, and in sauce for salt fish, scrambled 
or mixed with rice in kedgeree — when one has mentioned 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 47 

thes3 the catalogue of og^ prej^arations has been pretty 
well exhausted. 

Eggs are, of course, used to a prodigious extent in the 
making of cakes and puddings; but our neighbours the 
French probably use millions more of eggs every j^ear for 
the making of those omelettes in the confection of which 
very fcAv English cooks are even tolerably proficient. A 
simple omelette should be made solely and exclusively of 
eggs ; but in England there exists a preposterous delusion 
that milk, and even flour, may be added to the mixture 
in the pan, the result being the production of a stodgy, 
lumpy, indigestible mass, which is frequently fried a dingy 
brown instead of being of a delicate pale golden hue. 

I have given some carefully - thought - out recipes for 
savoury e'^^^f dishes ; * but Avhen I tell you that the clief to 
the Duke of Bedford once sent me a little book of his 
composition in which there were at least a hundred and 
fifty recipes for dressing eggs, you will be able to form an 
idea of the variety and skill with which the French dress 
this eminently palatable and nourishing food. 



Oysters. 

To talk of oysters as an important factor in cooking at 
a period when there is practically an oyster famine, and 
when at some of the most noted shell-fish shops in London 
and at the watering-places the proprietors sorroAvfully inform 
you that, owing to the almost prohibitive price of natives, they 
do a much larger trade in crabs, lobsters, haddocks, potted 
shrimps, and even in dried sprats from Norway and pickled 
anchovies, than they do in Colchesters or "Whitstables, 
seems almost like a mockery. I have ventured, however, 

* See pp. 3S9-3i)C. 



48 THE TEOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

to give a few recipes of oyster cookery* out of the very 
large number of such formulas which I have collected, in 
the hoj)e that the exorbitant price of this delicious and 
wholesome food will, ere long, be reduced to something like 
moderate proportions — and moderation in the 03^ster tariff 
is to be represented by two shillings a dozen for natives, 
^eighteenpence for middling, and one shilling for cooking 
oysters : that is to say, such bivalves as are used in making 
oyster sauce, oyster soup, and o_yster patties. Large oysters, 
too, can bo advantageously used for pickling. 

An ingenious artist once painted a picture representing 
the first discovery of the oyster by man. But who the 
first man was who met an oyster on the seashore, and how he 
opened it, and how he ate it, the wisest of us cannot tell. 
The Pontifit's of Pagan Rome caused oysters, so we are told, to 
be served at every repast ; but the delicacy must have been 
very expensive, since a basket of oysters cost the equi- 
valent of £9 sterling. They were served raw, and were 
dexterously opened by a slave at a side table at the beginning 
of the dinner. The inhabitants of the sea-coast of ancient 
Italy preferred large oysters, not so large, I hope as those 
American varieties of the species — huge, long, and grey in 
hue — the consumption of which once made Mr. Thackeray 
observe that he felt as though he had swallowed a babv, 
and which another traveller in the United States likened 
to the tongue of an indisposed giant. 

There is a story told of an astute Roman epicure named 
Fulvius Hirpinus, who constructed on his estate, close to 
the seashore, a fish-pond where he stored or "parked" 
oysters, which he fattened with paste and cooked wine, 
worked to the consistency of honey. I say that he was 
astute, since, after he had regaled himself and friends on 
these artificially fattened oysters, he drove a roaring trade 
in selling them wholesale and retail to the nobility and gentry 

* See Index to Ilocipss. 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 49 

of Rome. Oddly enough, in a comparatively modern cookery- 
book — that of " Will Rabisha " — I find a direction — which 
seems to be a pretty ferocious one — that while oysters are 
undergoing the process of broiling they should be fed with 
white wine and grated bread. Of course many ways were 
adopted in those days for the feeding of oysters ; but a paste 
of oatmeal and Avater seems to have been the staple of the 
sustenance given to the creatures before they were considered 
to be fit for the table, 

I remember once receiving a letter from a gentleman 
belono-insr to the Bureau of Education at Washington, U.S.A., 
who gave me the following formula for steaming 03'sters : — 
" The oysters are steamed in their shells. When their 
mouths open it is an indication that the festive bivalves 
are ready to tickle the epicurean palates of the average 
American legislator. A hot soup-plate is then taken, Avell larded 
Avith fresh butter, seasoned Avith black pepper and fresh 
salt, and the oysters are thrown into the sauce. A peculiar 
kind of ' choAv-choAv ' is eaten with the steamed oyster, 
very highly seasoned. It is prepared by Harvey especially 
for the purpose. Beer is the beverage to be imbibed on 
this important occasion, and I should advise Mihvaukee beer 
by all means." My correspondent added that " Oliver 
Wendell Holmes says in one of his books that tA\'o immense 
oysters should be carved in marble and placed on top of 
the Washington monument in Baltimore, instead of the 
statue of the immortal George. I am not in faA'our of re- 
moving the Father of his Country from off his imposing 
pedestal, but should like to compromise matters by making 
him sit on a pile of oyster-shells in lieu of a curule chair." 



50 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

Cold Fish. 

The late Viscountess Combermere, whose friendship I had 
the privilege to enjoy for more than fifty 3-ears, was in 
many respects a remarkable lady. She was an accom- 
plished musician, a fluent writer, a delightfully humorous 
artist, a sprightly sayer of epigrammatic things ; and she 
'was accustomed to give at her hospitable mansion in Belgrave 
Square dinners and luncheons which were second to none 
in the fashionable world of London as regarded the fault- 
less quality of the cuisine and the spice of novelty which 
the noble hostess scarcely ever failed to impart to her 
entertainments. For example, towards the close of a wonder- 
fully varied luncheon, a dish of Hampshire bacon boiled Avith 
Windsor broad beans would make its welcome appearance — 
a dish altogether after Sir Henry Thompson's heart ; and I 
have even seen a boiled leg of pork — a very small one, be it 
said — fio-ure on the bill of fare at one of the Belgravian dinners. 

In very hot summer weather Lady Combermere Avould 
often give dinners which, with the exception of the soup, were 
entirely cold — cold fish, cold entrees, cold joint, cold vegetables, 
cold removes, cold sweets. On the eve of one of her feasts, at 
which I knew the Russian Ambassador would be present, I 
did my best to persuade her to have a cold soup "a la Russe," 
a pottage in which pieces of cold fish, cucumber, and ice 
form part of the ingredients ; but, after long hesitation, 
my proposal met Avith a reluctant veto. She was afraid, so 
Lady Combermere said, of that very ancient individual, 
British Prejudice. Of the cold fishes served at her table, 
I have always preserved the liveliest remembrance ; and 
occasionally, when we have an un-English sununer, that 
is to say, a hot and sunny one, we give a quiet little dinner of 
six or eight, at which everything, save the soup, is cold. 
*But even under these circumstances, I confess tliat I cannot 
persuade my partner — who is not aged, and who has few 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 51 

prejudices — to tolerate cold soup " a la Russe." She lias read 
all the recipes for these frigid pofages, and declares them to 
be " nasty messes." Hovvever, reserving my own opinion 
in the matter, I find that as regards cold fish in summer, 
we are perfectly in accord, and it is for this reason that 
I have given some recipes for cooking and serving it. 



Porridge. 

I am not a porridge eater myself; that kind of food being 
IDroductive in my case more of distension than of delight ; 
but extensive observation in many lands during many years 
has led me to adopt the conclusion that civilised nations 
may, from a culinary point of view, be divided into two broad 
sections — the nations who habitually eat porridge, and those 
who do not care for it as an ordinary article of diet. The 
French are certainly not porridge eaters ; they infinitely pre- 
fer their beloved pot-au-feu to any kind of gruel ; although 
when they are in poor health they will swallow with tolerable 
gusto the preparation called panada, for which I have given a 
recipe.* The ancient Romans were moderately fond of oat 
soup. They took white oats and put them in the oven. 
When sufficiently dried, these were fanned, cleaned, and 
carried to a mill, the grinders of which were finely sharpened. 
The miller took care to hold the oats a little way off, in order 
that the grain might not be crushed. Curiously enough, 
this oat-soup, the grain being lubricated by thickened milk, 
is still a favourite dish in Normandy and LoAver Brittany. 
The Greeks had several kinds of porridge, including a barley 
gruel called alphiton ; to the barley Avas added linseed meal, 
Avith coriander seeds, salt, and the requisite quantity of Avater. 
As to the famous black broth of the Spartans, my oAvn 
opinion is that it Avas a porridge made either of dark-coloured 

* See j>. 31. 
E 2 



52 TEE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

lentils, or of those black beans which are known in ]\Iexico as 
frigoles. The frumenta, or gruels, of the ancient Romans 
distinctly survive in the " polenta," or porridge made from 
red and yellow maize flour, which is greedily consumed 
throughout the Italian peninsula, but especially in Piedmont 
and Tuscany. The American nuish, for Avhich you will find a 
^recipe,* is nothing but a very simple preparation of polenta, or 
maize flour ; but you may make it a great deal more appetis- 
ing if you dress it with butter, or Avith grated cheese. The 
Neapolitans mix their polenta to the consistence of a stiff 
pudding, and dress it with cheese, butter, and gravy ; while 
at Nice it is often allowed to o-et cold, being afterwards cut 
into slices, garnished with cheese or scraped ham, or sausage 
meat with a little garlic, and then placed in the oven to 
be baked for about twelve minutes. The Americans have 
at least twenty different kinds of porridge, to which they 
are inordinately addicted as breakfast dishes. Mush, hominy, 
burgoo, crushed wheat, crushed millet, lentils, and beans 
are among the pottages which they consume. 

The Germans occasional!}' eat potato porridge ; and it 
is almost superfluous to say that the Scotch are tremendous 
porridge or " parritch " eaters. The best Avay of making 
real Scotch porridge does not very much differ from the 
American mode of preparing mush. The water must be 
boiling ; you must let the oatmeal trickle slowl}' and steadily 
through your fingers into the Avater, stirring all the time 
with a " spirtle " or porridge-stick till the entire preparation 
becomes a homogeneous, bubbling mass. Season 3'our Scotch 
porridge with salt only. There is a good deal of porridge eaten 
in the North of England ; and even in London and other 
large towns, frugal parents often bring up their children on 
what they term " the porridge system." The oatmeal is 
nourishing enough, no doubt ; but, taken regularly in con- 
siderable quantities by very 3'oung peoj)le, is apt to overheat 

* Sec p. 4(;2. 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 53 

the blood. I think that barley or millet porridge for children 
would be better than coutinnal oatmeal. For the rest, so 
far as my experience goes, I believe that the majority of 
London Avorking people heartily detest all kinds of porridge. 
They associate it -with "skilly," and they hate it because 
to their minds it represents the diet of the workhouse 
iind the gaol. 



Chops. 

Is a steak a convertible term for a chop ? I ask ; because 
I have under my eye, as I am Avriting, dear old Hannah 
Glasse's recipe for " baked mutton chops." " Take," says 
Hannah, " a loin or neck of mutton ; cut it into steaks ; 
then take a quart of milk, six eggs beat up fine, and four 
spoonfuls of tiour ; beat your flour and eggs with a little 
milk first, and then put the rest to it ; put in a little beaten 
ginger and a little salt ; pour all this over the steaks and 
send it to the oven. An hour and a half w^ill bake it." 
It Avill be clear to the intelligent reader that this recipe 
for " baked mutton chops " is that which is at present known 
as the formula of " toad-in-the-hole." Who first gave that 
name to baked mutton chops ? But Avhy do Hannah's 
" chops " become " steaks " wdien they are laid in the pie- 
dish ? It strikes me, from the point of view of culinary 
philology, that the chop is something that must be smartly 
severed with a hatchet : whereas a steak is a piece of meat 
which is to be cut or sliced oti" the surface of a joint. Douglas 
Jcrrold once put the case very neatly when, speaking of the 
execution of Mary, Queen of Scots, he remarked that the 
poor lady had for supper her last steak, prior to her final 
" chop " the next morning. Chops are, to my thinking, an 
xilmost exclusively English dish. There are, I know, in New 
York certain taverns where you can get mutton chops ti 



54 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

VAncjlaise — that is to say, tliick cliops with curl}" tails : and 
for the washing down of these professedly British dainties, 
real English half-and-half, which the Americans alwa3-s care- 
fully counsel their countrymen to pronounce " arf-an'-arf," 
is provided. Still, travelling through the States and dining 
at different hotels and restaurants 3"ou will often be asked 
if you will take mutton, pork, or beef '' steaks." 

It is, moreover, a curious circumstance that, although next 
to roast beef the mutton chop is held to be the most de- 
lectable iteiu in the diet of John Bull, the chop, so called, 
is not to be found in very old English cookery-books. For 
example, in I)r. Salmon's " Family Dictionary and Household 
Companion," published in 1710, thirty-seven years before 
the appearance of Mrs. Glasse's work, no mention whatever 
occurs of chops. My theory is, that in the old English 
cvisine, chops were known as " collops " ; meaning slices 
or lumps of flesh that had been beaten prior to their being- 
cooked. The word itself is derived from the English " clap," 
or the Danish " kloppen," to beat. You know that in the 
Book of Job allusion is made to the wicked man who 
" maketh collops of fat on his flanks " ; and Shakespeare 
speaks of a " collop of flesh " ; while old Fuller alludes to '' cut ■ 
ting good collops out of Crown land." On the other hand, my 
Scotch readers will know that in Caledonia collops mean 
minced beef cooked in a stew-pan and kept moving, so that 
the mince shall not become coagulated into lumjDs. 

Touching the beating of the old English collop, it is as 
well to warn all and sundry not by any means to apply the 
bastinado to mutton chops before they are laid on the 
gridiron. Mutton is not so noble a meat as beef; still, its 
best parts slioidd be protected from the indignity of verbera- 
tion. Hear on this subject the wiseFrancatclli: — "Cliops must 
'never he hatted or heaten." But I hear distracted female cooks 
urge, " How shall we treat the meat when it is tough ?" You 
should not choose tough meat, ]\[adame Cook. The French, 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 55 

whose meat, with the exception of the " Chateaubriand " and 
the veal chop, is nearly always tough, cure the normal leatheri- 
ness of their beef or mutton by laying it for some hours in a 
very mild marinade of wine-vinegar, cloves, mace, pepper- 
corns, and a little salt ; but the English cook would indig- 
nantly declare that she could never consent to send up 
" pickled chops " or steaks to the table. 

A mutton chop of the sort I have mentioned, thick, fat- 
tailed, and so judiciously broiled as to be done through, but 
not to exhaust its gravy, is an incomparabty good lunch for 
busy people up to the age of tifty. The cook should be very 
careful to broil chops over a clear tire, and to turn them 
frequently, so that they may retain the grav}^ aforesaid. A 
dish of mutton chops is a deplorable solecism. Each chop 
should be served separately on its own hot plate, and if you 
can afford a silver hot-water plate, so much the better. The 
addition of a mite of minced shallot — for gentlemen only — 
and a morsel of fresh butter placed underneath each chop, 
may be recommended by way of relish ; and if the natural 
gravy is for some reason or another scanty, you may pour — 
observing great discretion — a little Harvey sauce into your 
plate. "Worcestershire sauce, in many cases admirable, is too 
potent for a hot mutton chop, and interferes with the balmi- 
ness of its flavour. You know that I hate potatoes; but a 
large, well-boiled, and mealy potato may be tolerated in the 
case of a tine chop " with a curly tail." 



Should Chops Ibe Fried or Broiled? 

The Marchioness of Londonderry is strongly ot opinion 
that the gridiron is the only culinary utensil with which 
to cook a chop ; and in the sensible advice which she has 
given to the wives of the colliers on the estate, she strongly 



56 THE THOllOUGH GOOD COOK. 

inculcates the expediency, on the grounds of cleanhness and 
succulence, of the preparation of chops St. Lawrence fashion, 
and in no other way. Culinary doctors, however, like 
medical ones, are occasionally apt to differ ; and the Mar- 
chioness has found critics who are not by any means satisfied 
with her recommendation of the grill to the working classes. 
^One correspondent of a newspaper asks her if she has 
ever tried to grill a chop over a tiny kitchener, such as is 
to be found in small houses of the present day ; and he ven- 
tures to think that those wdio have done so will agree with 
him that smoke and smut will, under these circumstances, 
always accompany the grilled chop. Finally, he asks the 
Marchioness to make her choice between a chop properly fried 
in a clean pan, and a chop imperfectly grilled over a poky 
kitchener. This censor forgets that coals are cheap at the 
pit's mouth, and that a collier's Avife whose husband's wages 
do not exceed twenty-five shillings per week can aftbrd to 
keep a much better " open " fire than can be maintained by 
the working man's wife in places where there are no collieries. 
Moreover, the wife of the working man, whether he earns his 
livelihood above or below ground, should be taught to broil a 
chop as thoroughly as she should be instructed in the art of 
boiling a potato. The gridiron should be greased with a 
piece of fat before the chop is placed upon it, and the fire 
should be a perfectly clear one. The chop or steak should be 
frequently turned while it is cooking; and if an excessive 
amount of fat falls into the fire, the blaze should be at once 
abated by a handful of salt. If these details are properly 
attended to, I fail to see where the contingency of smoke 
and soot occurs. 

The recipes for cooking plain mutton chops are curiously 
numerous ; and Dr. Kitchiner, in his " Cook's Oracle," tolerates 
0£)th the broiling and frying of chops, giving, in the case of 
the grill, the sensible advice to the cook to set the gridiron 
slanting, to prevent the fat from dropping on the coals and so 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 57 

making a smoke. In a culinary manual, published less than 
twenty years ago, both the broiling and the frying of chops 
are prescribed. In the first instance, the cook is directed to 
brush the cutlet over lightly with claritied butter to preserve 
the juice. The chop is to be turned four times, and when 
half-done it is to be seasoned Avith a mixture of salt and 
j)epper. It is to be served on a hot dish with a thin slice 
of butter on the chop, and a tablespoonful of mushroom 
catsup or Chili vinegar ; and, finally, it jnay be gar- 
nished with sliced lemon. When chops are fried, they 
are not to be dressed au naturel, but are dipped in egg 
and bread-crumbs, and to the butter in the frying-pan must 
be added a small quantity of stock or grav}^ There is not 
much to be said against this mode of dressing chops, but 
most lovers of the delicacy would, we should say, regard 
the prescription of Chili vinegar in lieu of mushroom 
<?atsup as rank heresy ; and although the garnish of sliced 
lemon may look as pretty as a border of parsley to a 
dish of sandwiches, the lemon is clearly an impertinence. 

The chop, let me repeat, should be neatly trinmied, very 
thick, with a proper allowance of fat, and so cooked that in 
the centre of the chop there should be a stratum of under- 
done meat : a fount of natural gravy. 

As some epicures do not object to a little very finely minced 
.shallot being sprinkled over their chop, so others are partial 
to chops with tomato sauce, an addendum which has become 
very rare in these days, when we have come to appreciate 
the excellent qualities of the " love-apple," and eat the 
delicious fruit-vegetable either hot and stuffed, or raw as a 
salad. Unless the mutton chop is partaken of in a grill- 
room, where it comes straight from the gridiron to the table 
■of the guest, an experienced gastronome will not be satisfied 
unless his chop is served on a hot-water plate ; for fat is a 
treacherous substance, and has a fatal tendency to get cold 
before the meat to which it belongs is half eaten. 



58 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

This is the English chop in its beautiful simplicity ; and 
although I have not one word to say against the world- 
famed roast beef of old England, it must be remembered that 
there are persons to whom beef is too potent and stimulating 
a meat, and whose constitution and palate are more efficiently 
administered to by the plainly cooked chop. No special ex- 
^seption need be taken to walnut pickles as a relish, but the 
article itself possesses so characteristic and so delightful a 
flavour of its own that it seems superfluous to mar its 
savour with the conflicting taste of vinegar. 

The old English cooks sometimes played sad tricks with 
their nmtton "steaks." One Mrs. Mason, in her "Ladies' 
Assistant," published in 1787, seasoned her chops with pepj)er 
and salt, placed them in a buttered dish Avith milk, eggs, and 
flour, sprinkled some beaten ginger over the mass, and baked 
it in an oven. The good lady was scarcely aware that her 
mutton steaks leaked would, as I have said, come down to pos- 
terity as a " toad-in-the-hole " — a dish which has long since 
been banished from refined English society, but which an 
ironical fate has transplanted to the French cuisine as la cote- 
lette d la Kelson ; but j\Iistress Mason herself was not above 
borrowing from France, since .her mutton chops in disguise, 
rubbed in pepper, salt, nutmeg, and chopped herbs, rolled in 
sheets of Avoll-buttered white paper, and sauted in a stew-jDan 
and served with brown gravy, are only an English adaptation 
of the cvtelettes a. la Ilaintenon, invented at the instigation 
of the morganatic Avife of Louis XIV. by Fagon his physician 
to stimulate the jaded appetite of the septuagenarian Grand 
Monarque. At a few first-class Parisian restaurants the carte 
comprises a dish professing to be a plain mutton chop, that 
goes by the name ot cotelette an luiturcl, but it is at its best 
a poor, meagre, shrivelled affiiir, which, when contrasted Avith 
the splendid!}' juicy English chop Avitli the curly tail, reminds 
the Briton of the old satirical couplet Avhich declared that 
" Pitt Avas to Addino-ton Avhat London Avas to Paddington.'" 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 59 

The only tolerable French cutelettes au natiirel are the tiny 
neck chops, each providing not more than a couple of 
mouthfuls, which, as I have said before, arc furnished with a 
little paper ruffle round the shanks, so that they may be 
despatched without the aid of knife or fork. 

On the other hand, although in unadorned chops the 
French are unable to approach us, they are exceedingly 
deft, tasteful, and versatile in their preparation of cutlets. 
Cotelcttes d la Vicomtesse are egged and bread-crumbed, 
fried in a sautt'-pan, garnished with quenelles of veal, dished 
on a border of mashed potatoes, and served with rich sauce. 
Cotdettes d la Westphalieniie are covered with chopped 
Westphalia ham instead of bread- crumbs ; cutelettes a la 
Provencale are fried in oil and seasoned with scraped garlic. 
Cutelettes d la Buhemienne are marinaded or pickled for 
three or four daj's before they are cooked, and are served 
with a sauce in which currant jelly and minced gherkins 
predominate. Then there are cutelettes d la Palestine, 
dressed with Jerusalem artichokes ; cutlets with asparagus 
tips; with cauliflower; with sauce d la Souhise, d la Jinauciere, 
d la 2Iarseilla Ise, and many other modes ; while the famous 
cutelettes d la Refurme were invented either by Alexis Soyer 
when chef of the Reform Club, or by his friend and patron Lord 
Marcus Hill, the consummate gastronome. 

Let it be noted that while in all these frying operations 
the French use a saute-pan admirably, they scarcely recog- 
nise a frying-pan in our sense of the term ; and that there 
is no risk of either smoke or soot getting into their pans. 
For the rest, while holding an even balance between Lady 
Londonderry's defence of broiling, and the opposite advocacy 
of frying, I may point out that both processes involve the 
waste of dripping. The most economical and perhaps the 
best way of cooking the British chop is to roast it in a 
Dutch oven before a clear fire, where it can be done " to 
a turn," and all the dripping can be saved. 



■60 THE THOBOUGn GOOD COOK. 



Partridges. 

In an old family album, on which I chanced the other 
day, I found a pen-and-ink drawing, made, I should say, 
by my father, very early in the present century. It repre- 
sents a female cook with a knife in one hand and Goethe's 
" Sorrows of Werther " in the other, and she is blubbering 
in a manner distressful to behold. Beneath Avas written, 
" Oh, Charlotte, Charlotte ! oh, Werther, Werther ! I must 
go and skin these (adjective) eels." The remembrance of 
this humorous drawing is an obvious warning to me to 
abstain from any moralising refiections as to the cruelty of 
hattucs, the injustice of the game laws, and the hard-hearted- 
ness and seltishness of calling the bird Avhich we so 
ruthlessly slaughter " Saint Partridge," and speaking of the 
First of September as the " Glorious First." The eels had 
got to be skinned by the sentimental cook who Avept over 
the sorroAvs of Werther, and the partridges have got to be 
killed by somebody ; and the fact that I have no kind of 
inclination for field sports, and if I Avent out shooting should 
probably pepper my next neighbour or m3'self, does not 
entitle me, I apprehend, to preach even the briefest of 
sermons against the undue preservation of game and the 
barbarity of " Avarni corners." Only this I Avill say, and firmly 
hold to: — That men should hunt and shoot is right and proper; 
Ave have been hunters and shooters for many centuries. But I 
do maintain that it is revolting and unwoman-like for any lady 
to shoot at birds. I don't care Avhat costume the tailor may 
drape la siMrtsiroman in. I don't care Avhetiier she goes out 
on a shooting tramp in knickerbockers and gaiters, or in 
skirts lined Avith leatlier, or in jack-boots; she has no right 
to go out shooting at all. Killing is no part of the vocation 
of a Avoman, and least of all should a lady slaughter par- 
tridges. The hen partridge is the kindest and most devoted 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 61 

motlier in tlie whole feathered world. When she is in 
charge of her little brood, she endeavours to put them out 
of danger and to draw the intruder aside by the exercise 
of many a crafty wile. But, should the enemy come upon 
the brood too suddenly to be deceived by cunning, the 
mother partridge will boldly dash at the foe, and with self- 
sacrilicing valour attack with beak, foot, and wing, until the 
enemy has left the ground or she herself is killed ; knowing 
that her young charges are taking advantage of the time 
to place themselves in safety. It is sickening to think of 
Englishwomen, created by Providence to be wives and mothers, 
forgetting the gentleness and the compassionateness of their 
sex, and butchering birds. 

Among the recipes which I have given you for par- 
tridges, I entreat you not to overlook braised partridge with 
cabbage.* It is the French 'penlrix aux cltoux, which the 
Paris correspondent of a daily newspaper seems to think 
to be a dish exclusively patronised by the French hour- 
geoisie. As a matter of fact, the partridge braised with 
cabbage has been for many generations an aristocratic ^)Z«i ; 
and the late E. M. Dallas, in his " Book of the Table," says 
that French cooks " elaborate with extraordinary care the 
ingredients of this preparation, and lavish immense ingenuity 
on it." I will not indulge in such hyperbole, but will ask 
you to try partridge with cabbage. 



Minces. 

In the earlier strams of the minstrels whose chief 
musical instruments are the banjo, the bones, the tambourine, 
and the accordion, there is a ditty of which the hero is 
a certain " Uncle Ned," who was exceedingly fond of 

* See Index to Recipes. 



62 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

corn-cake, but having attained so advanced a period of life 
as to have lost all the molars and incisors requisite for the 
mastication of solid food, " he had to let the corn-cake be." 
It was possibly some remote ancestor of " Uncle Ned," or, 
at all events, some individual in far-off antiquity, who, 
through loss of teeth, and the dentist's art being yet in its 
infancy, invented the culinary process known as mincing. 
The earliest product of this device was in all probability 
the sausage. The ancient Greeks, as we learn from the 
comedies of Aristophanes, Avere much addicted to sausages, 
and even to black puddings ; and the skill of the Greek 
cooks in making these, to me, abhorrent dainties, was 
emulated by the cordons hleus of old Rome. The cookery- 
book attributed authentically or apocryphally to Apicius 
contains a number of recipes for sausages. One is made 
from the minced liver of a pig that has been fed exclu- 
sively on figs ; then there are bacon sausages, with the 
mince of Avhich pepper, cummin, and winter savoury pounded 
in a mortar with pine-nuts, Avere used. Soyer, in his 
" Pantrophion," tells of sausages composed of pork chopped 
into very small pieces, with which was pounded the finest 
white bread well soaked Avith Avine and seasoned Avith pepper 
and decorticated myrtle leaves. The Eomans also had 
chicken sausages ; and one of their favourite lioi^s d'aeuvres 
Avas a very small sausage made of hard-boiled egg, mush- 
rooms, and anchovies pounded together and Avell seasoned. 
Self and partner occasionally try precisely such a relish at 
home ; only, instead of putting the mincemeat into skins, Ave 
stone some olives and dexterously stuff them Avith the mix- 
ture, serving them at the beginning, and not at the end, of 
the repast, on little discs of thin toast, delicately endued 
Avith anchovy butter. 

A mince, as Ave ordinarily understand it, is practically 
a,* sausage " at largo," that is to say, emancipated from its 
skin, served hot Avith a little gra\y, and in most cases 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 63 

accompanied by a poaclied egg, and garnished Avitli sippets 
round tlie dish. Alexandre Dumas the elder, in his "Dic- 
tionary of Cooker}'," defines minces as minutely chopped 
meat with a border round it of chicor}', prepared with 
cream, and says that minced roebuck should make its appear- 
ance at table with a pur^e of mushrooms ; but we do not 
habitually mince venison in England. AVe hash it, and the 
French have no exact equivalent for our hash. To minced 
beef, Alexandre very properly assigns a sauce piquante. 
Here is the recipe, not from Dumas, but from my own 
culinary pharmacopoeia : — Two tablespoonfuls of chopped 
onions in a stew-pan, with four of good malt vinegar (see 
that you get it) and a small piece of glaze ; boil together 
a few minutes, then add a pint of brown sauce and half 
a pint of broth; stir quickly over a sharp fire till the 
sauce adheres to the back of the spoon; then add a tea- 
spoonful of chopped mushrooms and a tablespoonful of 
chopped gherkins ; it is now ready to use. This sauce 
must be seasoned rather highly with Xepaul pepper, and 
salt, and a little sugar. Don't pour it over 3'our minced 
beef, which should be served not very moist, and accom- 
panied by the usual poached eggs; but have 3^our sauce 
separately in a boat. Some ladies will not tolerate the 
chopped gherkins, the onions, the pepper. 

When boiled beef is minced, the French call it a 
miroiton, a term which they also apply to stewed fruit. 



Cheese. 

David, we all know, carried loaves and cheese to his 
brethren, and perhaps the cheese gave him additional vigour 
when he encountered Goliath of Gath. I suppose there 
has rarely been a period in the world's history, since it has 
had any history to speak of, when cheese has not been 



64 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

eaten in some fonn or another : but I maintain tliat althoiigli 
we English people consume every year an enormous quantity 
of cheese, we are miserably behind foreign nations in em- 
ploying this succulent and wholesome article of food in our 
cookery ; and it is for this reason that I have given some 
cheese recipes.* 

It is true, ot course, that children eat large quantities 
of cheese-cakes, which are made, as a rule, without any 
cheese at all: althouQ'h in one kind of home-made cheese- 
cakes we begin by putting four well-beaten eggs into a 
saucepan containing a pint of boiling milk, and let it 
remain on the tire until it curdles ; then we pour off the 
whey, put the curd on an inverted sieve to drain, and, 
Avlien quite dry, add the other and sweet ingredients. 
There is a savoury cheesecake, too, made of well - drained 
curds, butter, egg^, Avith the addition of some grated Par- 
mesan and a little salt and pepper. But cheesecakes, 
after all, are frivolous things, scarcely calling for the notice 
of the serious student of cookery. We do make very 
excellent toasted cheese ; but the delicacy is evidentl}- not 
of Saxon but of ancient British extraction, as Theodore Hook 
well showed in teUing the story of the Welsh school-boy who 
declared that one of his ancestors gave a banquet at which 
five hundred cooks were employed ; upon which a malicious 
Sassenach suggested that the boy's ancestor only presided 
at a feast of five hundred guests, and that every man 
brought and toasted his own cheese. 

With regard to the Welsh rabbit, or rare-bit, it is 
amusing to remember that M. Jules Goufife, the distin- 
guished author of " Le Livre de Cuisine " — perhaps one of 
the best French cookery-books of modern times — paid us 
the compliment, in his "Livre dcs Soupes," to admit 
" that we at least possess one national iwiugc " — cheese 
soup, to wit — and he proceeded to specify with the utmost 

* See pp. 3:)7-10U 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 65 

gravity the ingredients and the mode of preparing a Welsh 
rabbit. There is indeed an English cheese soup which 
can be made without toast. You may grate very finely as 
much dry Gruyere or any other light-coloured cheese as 
you require ; strew a layer of it at the bottom of the soup- 
tureen ; over this place some very thin slices of the stale un- 
toasted crumb of bread. Kepeat this process until the cheese 
is used, when one-fourth of the depth of the tureen should 
be occupied. Then you put a piece of fresh butter into a 
saucepan ; let it melt, and stir into it a tablespoonful of 
flour, and keep it on the fire, stirring constantly till it 
browns. Then throw in two tablespoonfuls of finely minced 
onions ; when they are browned, stir in gradually a quart 
of Avater ; let it boil, season with pepper and salt. Allow the 
soup to stand a couple of minutes before the fire to soak 
the bread and cheese, and when that is done, serve. 



Cool Driuks. 

What should we drink in broiling summer weather ? 
The most philosophic reply to the question is that Ave 
should drink as little as ever Ave possibly can, either of 
an alcoholic or a non-alcoholic nature, for there is danger, 
when the thermometer is at 85°, in gulping down draughts 
of cold Avater, especially if it is iced ; and in any case, 
touching aqueous potations, Falstaff A'ery cogently ob- 
serves that " water SAvells a man." Old and experienced 
travellers Avill, I think, agree Avitli me that in exceedingly 
sultry Aveather, and in stress of Avater, thirst may be 
staved off by sucking gum Arabic ; and in far-dis- 
tant days, Avhen I Avas campaigning Avith Garibaldi in 
the Tyrol, Ave did very Avell, Avhen the coffee ran out, by 
sucking chocolate drops, Avhich gave us a strange sustaining 



6Q THE THOBOUGn GOOD COOK. 

power. If yon can get water, and have some donbts abont 
its pnrity, yon ma}' qnalify it either with a tiny admixtnre 
of cognac or whisky, or of Spanish liqnorice, or molasses, 
or — if yon do not object to bitters — of gentian, and a few 
drops of syrnp of ginger. These ingredients, indeed, added 
to Rosbach, wdth some sal- volatile, will form what is knoAvn 
"as a piclv-me-np, and with a Inmp of ice snperadded will 
be found delicious. 

Civilised society, however, in a state of peace, requires 
a vast number of cooling drinks of a more or less luxurious 
quality. Cider-cup you will find I have given a recipe for,* 
and ladies may find much solace in perry-cup, which I 
consider to be equal in dulcet pleasantness to Moselle-cup, 
and nearly equal to the king of all white-Avine cups, 
champagne. Cold tea is a most delicious and refreshing 
iDeverage in hot weather ; but I doubt whether it should be 
taken pure. It is much better both for the palate and 
the nerves of the drinker to mingle it with milk and 
sugar. That is the Avay in which the Australian miner 
takes it when he prepares to descend the shaft and his 
wife hands him, just before the basket or cradle is set 
going, his " billy " of tea. The Russians drink amazing 
quantities of tea, both in winter and summer; but they 
never drink it cold. The tea is poured from a samovar, 
a large brass urn ; through the centre of this runs a tube 
in which heated charcoal or a red-hot metal cylinder 
is placed to keep the water Avarm ; and the tea is then 
poured from a tap, not into cups, but tumblers. Milk and 
sugar are eschewed ; but the tea — which is usually five times 
better than any tea procurable in "Western Europe or in 
America — is flavoured with a slice of lemon. I have heard 
of artfully contrived samovars divided into two separate 
'compartments and moving on a pivot. The guests Avho 
" know the ropes " are aware that one compartment 

* See p. 440. 



CHATS ABOUT COOKEBY. 67 

contains innocent hot tea, and the other wicked hot 
punch. The machine has a tap on each side, and the 
non-abstaining Muscovite can easily twirl the samovar round 
and turn on the punch-tap. Obviously, however, neither 
hot tea nor hot jDunch should be regarded in warm Aveather 
as a cooling drink. 

Heat, however, should not be entirely disregarded as an 
element in two exceptionally cool and refreshing beverages. 
In the morning, instead of drinking j-our coffee hot, try it as 
a chaudfroid. Pour }'our cafe an lait into a soda-water 
glass in which you have placed a couple of very big 
lumps of ice. When you first grasp the glass in your 
fingers the heat will be scarcely tolerable, but by degrees, 
as you drink, you Avill experience an enchanting sensation 
of velvet-like softness, and gradually increased chilliness 
in the coffee; and in the end you will find that you are 
sipping a completely cold beverage, not violently iced, but 
gently, gradually, and completely refrigerated. A chaudfroid 
of tea in the afternoon is quite as delightful and quite as 
thirst-quenching. Iced milk I grant to be appetising, but 
save at very early morning, and then qualified by a dash of 
the best Jamaica rum, I doubt the prudence of gulping down, 
say, half a pint of milk at a draught. It lies heavy on the 
stomach, and is not easily digested, AVhen children are 
thirsty, and curds and whey are not procurable, I think 
that in summer they might with advantage drink lemonade, 
thoroughly cooled, but not actually iced. I don't mean the 
so-called lemonade sold in bottles. This drink is, as a rule, 
only so much aerated water with an infusion of acetic acid. 
Real lemonade — Avhich is made in the Italian penny ice-shops 
far better than it is in the houses of polite society — should 
be made from boiling Avatcr poured on slices of real lemon, 
well sweetened, and cooled first by placing Avet cloths round 
the bottle, and next by surrounding it by pounded ice till 
the refrigerating, not the freezing, point has been attained. 
F 2 



68 THE THOIiOUGH GOOD COOK. 



How to make Coffee. 

On the principle of every man thinking his own geese 
swans, I bcheve that we make as sfood coffee in our house at 
Brio-hton as is to be met with in most micklle-class famihes 
>vhere the master and mistress know something about cookeiy ; 
so I will tell you in a very few words how our coffee is 
made. "We allow a tablespoonful and a half for each break- 
fast-cup ; and we use the best coffee that we can get. 
Formerly we had a coffee-mill, and ground the so-called 
beans, which are really the seeds of the coffee-berry, at 
home ; but now we are content to use good colonial coffee, 
with a very small quantity of chicory in it. To make the 
delicious beverage, we use that simple percolator of block 
tin which I have seen used for fifty years. In the upper 
cylinder of the percolator we place the coffee, closing the 
top with a perforated block-tin disc to prevent the aroma 
from escaping during the process of infusion and the water 
from falling v\'ith a rush on the coffee, then we pour in 
a sufficienc}'' of boiling water, and the infusion percolates 
into the lower cylinder, and is in due time poured out 
from the spout, strong, and clear as a bell. That is all. 
Stay : the percolator must be kept from boiling again, which 
would be fatal to its flavour and its clearness ; but it must 
be placed on a "hot plate," to prevent it from becoming 
tepid. Lukewarm coffee is an abomination which should 
be administered onl}^ to spiteful cats and human miscreants. 

In case you should think my coffee recipe too rough- 
and-ready, I have given a number of recipes for the 
making of it,* culled from long acknowledged authori- 
ties on the subject. There are a hundred and one 
ivays of making coffee ; but I have found ours palatable 
not only to ourselves, but to our friends. In the morning, 

* See pp. 4.->2-i.-.4. 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 69 

at breakfast, we drink cafe au lait — one part of" coffee to 
three parts of boiling milk. After lunch and after dinner, 
and altogether against the advice of my medical attendant, 
I drink black coffee without milk and with a little snofar. 
At luncheon I take no ^yet it verre with m}?- coffee ; after 
dinner I have a liqueur glass of green Chartreuse with my 
cafe noir, and it does me good. My medical attendant 
says that it does not. My medical attendant may go 
to Hong-Kong ; and I have not the slightest doubt that 
when he dines at the ^Esculapian Club he never fails 
to take his petit verre with his coffee. I remember dining 
once with no less than nine doctors ; they all ate turtle 
soup, they all took curry, they all drank champagne and 
port afterwards, they all had liqueurs with their demie- 
tasse, and they all smoked. I w^as not present, either at 
the 2^ost-morterii or at the inquest. 

It is amusing to read what some old culinary authorities 
have to say about coffee. Worth}^ Dr. Kitchiner, in his 
"Cook's Oracle" (1827), observes that coffee, as used on 
the Continent, serves the double purj)ose of an agreeable 
tonic and an exhilarating beverage, without the unpleasant 
effects of wine ; but as drunk in England, it debilitates 
the stomach, and produces nausea, being usually made from 
bad coffee served up tepid and muddy, and clrowned in a 
deluge of water, sometimes deserving the title given to it 
in "The Petition against Coffee, a black, base, thick, 
nasty, bitter, stinking puddle-water." For making coffee, 
the doctor recommended — nearly seventy years ago, you 
will remember — the use of the " German filter," which was 
only a simple percolator ; and he adds that not less than four 
shillings a pound must be paid for the coffee, and that at 
least an ounce should be alloAvcd for two breakfast-cups. 
As to making cofl'ee in the ordinary coffee-pot, the old- 
fashioned mode of boiling and clearing the liquid, it is 
.simply abominable. I have read one recipe Avhere you are 



70 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

told that before you make your coffee you should put it 
into a basin and break into it an eyo- — white, yolk, shell 
and all. This compost being put into the pot, it is to be 
boiled w^ three times. It will then, says the prescriber of 
this nastiness, be as clear as amber, and '•' the egg will give 
it a rich taste." Sometimes the dried skin of sole or cod- 
ti§h, scraj^ed, washed, and dried, and cut in pieces an inch 
square, was used for settling the coffee, and isinglass Avas 
another favourite "clearer." I once kncAv a cook who main- 
tained that the only possible way of clearing coffee was to 
throAv a \\\e coal into the pot after its final boil. That 
cook, I am sure, came to a bad end. 



Ices. 

I once asked good old Lady Combermere, the relict of 
the famous Field-Marshal of that name, and who lived to 
be nearly ninety, and ])reserved almost to the last her 
brilliant mental faculties, whether she could remember the 
period when ices first became popular in English society. 
She replied that, so far as she could recollect, both water 
and cream ices became fashionable about 1817 ; but that they 
were at first somewhat mistrusted by the heaii moiide, in- 
asmuch as they made its stomach ache. 

There is even at the present day a dim suspicion among" 
otherwise intelligent people that ices are more or less in- 
digestible ; but looking at the fact that fruit ices are 
prepared with fruit-juices strained and mixed with thick 
cold syrup, juice of lemon and orange, and a little of their 
peel, and that ice-creams are only so nmcli syrup, cream, 
and fruit, or other flavouring, carefully frozen, it would not 
appear that these delicious dainties contain any indigestible 
or otherwise unwholesome element. 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 71 

Children are, as a rule, passionately fond of ices ; but 
when their parents delight the little ones' hearts and palates 
with these delicacies, they should be very careful not to 
let Master Tommy or Miss EtKe eat an ice when he or she 
happens to be over-heated. Ices are best eaten in the cool 
of the evening of summer days, or at the conclusion of a 
well-prepared repast, when an equal temperature reigns 
throughout the frame. Adults, as well as juveniles, should 
avoid ices Avhen they are perspiring through the sultriness 
of the season or of an over-crowded and ill-ventilated room, 
just as they should avoid, under similar conditions, drinking 
a glass of iced, or even of very cold, water. 

Touching the precise period at which ices, either cream 
or water ones, were first introduced into England, I am 
inclined to think that the epoch suggested by Lady 
Combermere was only that of a revival, and that ices in 
some shape or another had been consumed, with intervals 
of capricious unpopularity, ever since the days of the 
Restoration. Lord Chesterfield's cook de la chapclle was an 
excellent hand at ice making ; and the process of freezing 
is very accurately described by Mrs. Hannah Glasse, and 
does not to any material extent differ from the processes 
employed at the jDresent day. 

There is no earthly reason why ices should be con- 
sidered an expensive delicacy, quite unfitted for the eco- 
nomical scheme of a small family with moderate means. 
The necessar}^ apparatus can be purchased for a very reason- 
able sum, and half a dozen lessons from a confectioner would 
teach a plain cook most of the mysteries of ice making. 
You have only to imbed your circular metal ice-box in 
salted ice ; when this is Avell set, your prepared liquor is 
poured into it, and it must be then incessantly Avorked until 
it is thick ; but in order to make the ices quite smooth, 
a rotary motion must be given to the ice cylinder. It must 
not be forgotten that the more they are worked the smoother. 



72 THE THOBOUGE GOOD COOK. 

mellower, and more elastic tliey will become. While you 
are turning the cylinder in its bed of salted ice, be very 
careful to strip off any bits of ice which may adhere to 
the sides or the bottom of the metal box. If you do not 
attend to this, there wall always be a peril of the pre- 
paration within becoming more hardly frozen in one part 
than in another ; in other words, your ice will be lumpy, 
and a lumpy ice is confusion. 

If you can afford to indulge occasionally in a little 
picturesqueness and elegance in the service of your table, 
get some pewter fruit moulds imitating pineapples, small 
melons, pears, peaches, and so forth. Each species of mould 
should be filled with a preparation in accordance with its 
nature and colour. AVhen the moulds are filled, they should 
be well closed, wrapped each in a sheet of paper, set on a 
thick layer of pounded ice, strongly salted and sulphuretted, 
and then covered over with another thick layer of the 
same mixture. In an hour's time the fruit-ices should be 
sufficiently frozen. Free the moulds from the paper, dip 
them in cold water, carefully open them, and dish your 
fruit-ices with such elegant surroundings as may suggest 
themselves to you. The tuft of the pineapple may be 
imitated with angelica. 

Of course you have heard of " surprises " in ice-creams. 
I have seen some astonishingly ingenious things done in this 
way at Vienna, where they will send you up ices simulating 
with marvellous closeness lobsters, oysters, bundles of as- 
paragus, and even mutton cutlets and small hams. One 
year, having a little birthday dmner at Brighton, to which 
a few very old friends were invited, we tried, with the 
brightest success, a cream-ice " surprise," the recipe of which 
I now freely offer to the great body of my readers. Tell 
your cook to obtain as many large long potatoes as you in- 
tend to invite guests. Let the potatoes be baked a very 
dark brown, so that their skins shall be rather corrugated 



CHATS ABOUT COOKERY. 73 

than smooth. Then cut the potatoes in halves, scoop theui 
out thoroughly, wipe the inside of the skins quite dry, 
and varnish with white of egg; fill each half with ice, 
make it perfectly level at the top, flatten it, join the halves 
together, and serve the seeming "praties" on a napkin in 
a dish. Of course you will announce them in the bill of 
fare as " baked potatoes a la tin can." AVe managed at the 
outset to deceive every one of our guests ; we even heard 
murmurs of "Oh! really!" "I could not possibly!" "Who 
ever heard of such a thing ! " and I am afraid that one lady 
said " Shocking ! " But one wily male guest said he would 
try a " pratie." He touched one with the forefinger of his 
dexter hand, nodded his head sagaciously, and winked a 
knowing wink. He duly opened his surprise potato and 
revealed the ice within ; there was a roar of laughter, and 
ten baked skins were at once emptied of their contents. 

How had he discovered the trick ? we afterwards asked 
him. " Baked potatoes," he sententiously replied, " are not 
served cold ; and the guests, when potatoes come round, do 
not have glass plates with ice spoons set before them." 



For the Children. 

The well-bemg, as well as the good behaviour, of children 
depends to a very large extent on the dietary prepared for 
them. They should not — whether they be inclined to be 
hons vivants or not — be tempted by the sight of food which 
is not suitable to their tender years and to their tender 
digestions ; but they should take their meals chiefly apart 
from their elders until they are at least ten years old. My 
experience in catering for young people has not been large, 
but I am enabled to speak from the experiences related to 



74 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

me by many friends whose olive-branclies have been and 
are numerous. 

Now let me thinlc. The bUnds are drawn up in the 
nurseries, and the youngsters are all wide awake ; and, like 
their elders, their first desire upon waking is not to have a 
bath, but to have something to eat and drink. I hear some 
of my readers exclaim, " Something to eat and to drink before 
they are Avashed and dressed ! Ridiculous ! " But I repeat 
that their first desire upon Avaking is to have something to 
eat and to drink ; and that desire I maintain should be 
satisfied. Give your children, Avise mothers, upon Avaking, 
a Avine-glassful of home-made lemonade, a Marie biscuit, 
and some fruit — a feAV grapes, a pear, an apple, an orange, 
or a feAv figs. Let the little ones enjoy this early "snack" 
every day upon Avaking, and you Avill find that their general 
health Avill be very much the better for it, and it Avill go 
far to decrease your chemist's bill. Bread and milk should 
constitute the staple diet for breakfast ; but bcAA^are of 
porridge more than once, or, at the outside, tAvice a Aveek. 
Too much oatmeal porridge is apt to haA^e a bad effect on 
the skin. With some children it brings about a roughness, 
and AA'itli others absolute soreness, of the skin. When o-iven 
at breakfast it should be prepared Avith milk, and the con- 
sistency should be only that of arroAvroot or corn-flour, 
and not resemble in thickness a "bran mash" or linseed 
poultice, as I liaA^e frequently seen it served. BroAvn sugar, 
and not Avhite, should be served Avith porridge. 

There is no necessity for me to tell how bread and milk 
should be prepared, as yve all knoAV that ; but there are 
tAVO AA'ays of serving up even this homely fare, an appetis- 
ing and a non -appetising Avay. I have had bread and 
milk for my morning meal for months together during 
times of sickness, so I ouo-lit to knoAv somethino- about the 
appetising aspect of it. A nice cottage, not a tinned, 
loaf should be chosen, cut into even squares, care being' 



CHATS ABOUT COOKEEY. 7.> 

taken to leave nice bright little edges of crust for this 
matutinal dish ; next be careful to jDoiir boiling, and not 
lukewarm, water on the bread ; drain it off quickly so as 
not to allow the bread to be reduced to a pap ; set the 
bowls — always have white bowls — on a Avarm plate, and pour 
on to the bread the hot fresh milk in a few seconds, just 
as it is on the point of boiling. Don't wait until the milk 
actually boils, or it may become brown and burnt in a 
moment, and will entirely spoil the repast. A nice dish of 
buttered toast, made from tinned loaves, should follow, with 
a cup of chocolate made from cocoa-nibs. 

The next day bread and butter, hot buttered toast, and 
boiled or poached eggs should be the faro, with glasses of 
cold milk or caf^ au lait. No tea, please. For dinner 
have mutton or chickens broiled, or roast, but beef only in 
croquettes or minced, Avith plenty of nice fruit, custard, 
and rice puddings ; use plain vegetables such as cauliflower, 
Brussels sprouts, and cabbage and turnips, and have fish 
once a week. I say " once a Aveek," for fish impoA^erishcs 
the blood of children. If the doctor alloAvs cheese, it should 
be taken grated, either on a buttered biscuit, or eaten Avitli 
boiled macaroni. Soup I should not recommend for children, 
as it requires to be highly flavoured to be altogether 
palatable; but occasionally good beef gravy over potatoes is 
to be commended as being nutritious. For the evening meal 
chocolate is better than tea, and if chocolate fails to meet 
with approval, I should give cold milk in summer or hot 
in Avinter, as tea is too astringent in its effects for children. 
Plenty of good bread and butter, home-made preserA'es, and 
plum and seed cakes ; and occasionally chicken and ham, or 
Qor^ sandAviches, should find favour for this last meal of the day. 
For children Avho are not very robust, I Avould recommend 
a little cold chicken broth, or a spoonful or tAvo of beef-jelly 
on a biscuit just before bedtime ; but strong and healthy 
children require absolutely nothing, as a rule, after their 



76 THE TEOBOUGH GOOD COOK 

schoolroom tea. Pastry should, in my opinion, be wholly 
avoided, and a watchful eye, should be kept on the consump- 
tion of the contents of those fascinating boxes of bon-bons 
which so man}^ children receive nowadays as presents from 
their admiring friends. After children have passed their 
twelfth year the}^ require a more generous diet ; but it is 
of young children that I now write. 



77 



RECIPES. 

Section I.— SOUPS. 



1. Beef Broth (Pot-au-Feu). 

[The Foundation of Fksh C'oolcrry.) 

Beef, which should always be chosen fresh-killed, makes- 
the best " pot-aii-feu " or broth. Veal is not so good, except 
in cases of sickness, as it is of a pale colour and weakens 
the broth. The same may be said of poultry. Pork broth 
is only useful in the making of split-pea soup. 

Put your meat into cold Avater, and set the pot upon a 
good tire ; salt and skim it carefully. When the scum is 
entirely removed, put in carrots, turnips, leeks, celery, parsley,. 
a bay-leaf, a burnt onion, and simmer — ah ! so gently — until 
the meat is quite done ; and you will have an excellent and 
wdiolesome beef soup. Next to the quantity and the quality 
of the meat, that which contributes most to the making of 
good broth is to take care that it cooks over a slow fire, with- 
out ceasing one minute. Six hours' simmering is sufficient to 
make a good soup, but a longer period is bettor. The pro- 
portion is three pounds of meat to four quarts of water. For 
the use of the gravy beef, or broth, see the chat on Frencli 
Domestic Cookery (p. 6). 



2. Consomme (White Stock). 

The leg is the most useful part of veal for this purpose, 
though, for large dinners, there are other pieces which can also 



78 THE THOBOUGE GOOD COOK. 

be used with it. The inside peart of the leg is a fleshy 
fillet without sinews : this should be taken out when you 
wish to serve a fricandeau, the remainder of the leg of veal cut 
in pieces, with about two pounds of lean ham ; if you have 
a fowl that is too old for any other purpose, it will add to 
the excellence of the broth ; put the whole into a stew- 
23an, with a quart of not too strong beef broth ; set the 
stew-pan over a charcoal fire to soak the juice out of the 
meat, which operation should take about an hour's time, and, 
of course, is to be regulated by the fire kept under it ; especial 
iittention must be paid that it does not burn ; frequently 
shake the stew-pan, that the contents may not stick to 
any part of it ; when the juice is reduced to the consistence 
of glaze, of a nice rich colour, fill up the stew-pan Avith 
clear beef broth, and let it boil slowly by the side of the 
fire for three hours : remove all the fat, and pass the 
consomme through a napkin or fine cloth into one or two 
basins. If the weather is warm, it is better to divide the 
broth, for by keeping too great a quantity in one vessel, it 
is apt to grow sour before it is cold. 

Clear, light stock is a highly important preparation in 
cookery, any failure in which proves fatal to the Avhole dinner, 
therefore no care or attention should be spared in order that 
it may be had in perfection. 



3. Beef Tea. 

Take two pounds of fresh lean beef, let it be free from 
all sinews, fat, and skin ; put the beef, cut in pieces, into 
a stew-pan, cover the meat with cold Avater; have another 
stew-pan, in which you place the one containing the beef, 
pour Avater round to come nearly to the top of the inner stcAV- 
pan ; set over the fire, and let the Avater boil briskly for 
tAvo hours ; then take out the inner stcAV-pan, and let it stand 



SOUPS. 79 



for ten minutes, that the tea may settle ; place a napkin over 
a basin, and carefully pass the tea through it. 



4. Mutton Tea. 

Take two pounds of the lean part of a leg or loin of 
mutton, without fat or skin ; put this into a stew-pan and 
cover it with water, and proceed in the same way as directed 
in No. 3. Those persons who have not the convenience of 
stew-pans may put the meat into an earthen pot, cover it 
up quite close, and set it in a saucepan, Avith water boiling 
round it. 



5. Veal Tea or Broth. 

Take two pounds of the fleshy part of a leg of veal, free 
from fat, cut it into small pieces, put it into a stew-pan, Avith 
as much water as will cover the meat, and proceed, as in 
No. 3, by putting one stew-pan in another ; but it wdll 
require an hour longer in the bath, as the juice of young meat 
is not so readily extracted. This broth may be made more 
nourishing by the addition of a calf s foot, taking out the long 
bone. 



6. Chicken Broth 

Ts also to be prepared precisely in the same w-ay as 
the veal, but remember to skin the chicken before it is used. 
To any of the broths thus made you may add vermicelli, 
macaroni, rice, sago, etc., first boiled in water, then put 
into the broth, and made tender by setting the stew-pan in 
a hot- water bath. 



80 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

7. Chicken Broth for the Consumptive. 

Put a young fowl, cut up as usual, into a small, ■well- 
tinned stew-pan, with two spoonfuls of rice, and two quarts 
of water ; liaving skimmed it, add some coriander seed and 
two pinches of poppy grains ; boil it gently for two hours ; 
add six or eight crayfish, and give it twent}' minutes' boiling ; 
then throw in a handful of borage leaves ; cover it, and take 
the pan from the fire to infuse for a quarter of an hour. 
In putting the fowl on, add tAvo spoonfuls of pearl barley, 
and when passed through a sieve, add two ounces of barley- 
sugar (sugar boiled with an infusion of marsh-mallows) ; 
when this is dissolved, use it lukewarm and perfectly 
skimmed. Capons are prepared for broths and teas like 
chickens, but they are much more nutritious, and are more 
suitable for men than for women and children. 

I may add that I have known wondrous benefit to result 
from the use of this chicken broth.] 



8, Julienne Soup. 

A carrot, turnips, onions, leeks, and celer}', accordmg to 
quantity required ; cut the carrots in thin slices ; cut them 
again across into small thin strips ; if the carrots are old, 
peel off only the parts that are red ; slice all your vegetables 
equally ; put three ounces of butter into a stew-pan ; when it 
is melted put in the onions, and fr}- for four minutes ; add the 
remainder of yottr vegetables, pass them quickly with a 
tablespoonful of powdered sugar, and keep continually tossing 
them so that they shall not catch. When they are beginning 
to look somewhat dry, add a quart of clarified consomme ; let 
it boil gently at the corner of the fire for twent}- mmutes, and 
be very careful to skim it well. A greasy Julienne is 



SOUPS. 81 

destruction ; only, the vegetables must be lightly fried, or rather 
bro^\'ned, in the butter, else your soup will not be a Julienne 
at all. Some cooks add sorrel leaves and cabbage-lettuce, and 
a little picked chervil, cut small ; but to my mind these 
additions make a highly artistic soup a rude mess of pottage. 
Serve it — as indeed you should serve all souj)s and all warm 
dishes — as hot as ever you possibly can. The heat, Mrs. 
Cook, should be in the dishing-up and in the plates, not in 
the seasoning. 



9. French Brown Soup (Brunoise). 

To clear broth (No. 2) add carrots and turnips, cut into 
dice, straws, or like small pears, etc., and first slightly fried and 
drained if young ; if old, blanched. Soak toasted sippets in a 
basin of broth, and put them into the tureen after the soup 
is dished, lest they crumble and spoil the clearness of the soup. 
This is essential whenever bread is used. Skim off the fat 
from the tureen and serve. You may cut leeks and celery in 
lozenges, the turnips and carrots m ribands, and Avith these^ 
cooked, you have a second kind of Julienne soup. 

If gravy-soup is not sufficiently clear, it may be imj^roved 
by the whites of two or three eggs, well whisked, being boiled 
up with it before it is strained a second time. This is one of 
the " secrets of the kitchen " Avith Avhich all experienced cooks 
should be familiar; if there be any impurities in the soup, they 
will gather in a kind of ragged ball about the whites of 
the eggs, and this ball you throw a^vay. 



10. Autumn Soup. 

Cut, as for a Julienne (Xo. S), the white parts of four 
leeks, the same of two heads of celery, and a lettuce ; wash, 

G 



82 THE TIIOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

and throw them into boiUng broth; add a pint of young 
peas, a little sugar and pepper, two large spoonfuls of 
flour, mixed thinly and smooth, with some cold stock ; stir 
the broth Anth a tablespoon to render it smooth, and after 
boiling it an hour and a half, pour it into the tureen with 
crusts dried as usual (see No. 12). 



11. Spring Soup (Potage Printauier). 

Mix in your broth the white of an egg beaten up with 
a little cold beef stock, to clarify it ; after twenty minutes' 
boiling, strain it through a napkin, and again set it to 
boil, mixing with it the roots and vegetables as follows : — 
The red part of a large carrot cut in small sticks half an 
inch long with a cutter a quarter of an inch wide, a turnip, 
a head of celery, and two leeks cut in the same manner, 
with twelve small white onions ; wash and put them into 
the boiling broth; then add lettuce, sorrel, and chervil 
blanched sufficiently, and serve in a tureen containing three 
tablespoonfuls of green peas and three of asparagus tips 
blanched ; add a little sugar and some small crusts of a 
French roll rasped, cut round three-quarters of an inch 
wide, without the least appearance of crumb, and dried in 
the hot-closet. A dear soup, but not extravagantly so. 

This soup may also be served a la Parisienne, a la Regence, 
a la Chasseur, or with small forcemeat balls of fowl or game. 
You will perceive that it is fundamentally a Julienne : only 
there is a greater variety of vegetables, and tJieij are not 
fried. 

You will please to observe that I am adhering to my 
rule of not using French terms where English ones will 
do quite as well ; but when I have to describe a " smart " 
dinner for " smart " people, it is necessary to indulge in a 



SOUPS. 83 

little " cooks' French," which is about the worst French 
with which I am acquainted. 



12. Sorrel Soup. 

Cat and wash a handful of sorrel, a lettuce, and some 
chervil ; pass them, with a little fresh bacon scraped, melted, 
and strained, through a tammy. The scraped bacon is 
cheaper than butter. Place your mixture in a clear meat 
stock ; add a pinch of sugar, and skim the soup. Boil 
gently for an hour and a half. Just before serving add 
four yolks of eggs, with two small pieces of fresh butter ; 
let it boil up, but keep it stirring, that the egg mixture 
may mingle smoothly with it ; serve it, not with toasted 
sippets, but with little " crusts " of bread fried in dripping, 
but carefully dried in the hot closet, so that they shall be 
crisp and not greasy. 

13. Green Pea Soup (St. Germain). 

Take three pints of green peas, mature, but not too 
old, and let them sweat thoroughly in stock on the fire 
Avith a bunch of green onions, parsley, a little mint, and a 
quarter of a pound of ham. When done, pound and 
moisten them with white stock to about the same con- 
sistence as other thick soups. Set this to boil gently for 
about twenty minutes at the corner of the stove, and skim 
well. When about to serve, colour your soup with a little 
parsley — or spinach-green, as dry as you can obtain it, by 
squeezing betAveen two napkins. Mix your green with 
about two ounces of butter, well worked in a cloth, that 
no moisture may remain in it : if any wet particles remain 
either in the green or the butter, it will cause them to 
curdle in the soup instead of producing a smooth opaque 
green. Put your green and butter in a round-bottomed 
G 2 



84 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

basin ; stir tliem witli a Avooden s^Doon, while yon gradually 
moisten Avitli soup, till the whole forms one and the same 
body. Serve immediately with fried sippets. Green-pea 
soup should be velvet-smooth. Just before serving, you 
may put into it a few whole peas which have been boiled 
separately : but when you do this you must leave out the 
sippets. 



14. Soup of Brussels Sprouts. 

Sort out about fifty Brussels sprouts nearly of a size 
and as small as you can get them ; boil them perfectly tender 
and green in salt and water, drain them thoroughly on a 
napkin, and when you serve the dinner, boil them for five 
minutes in two quarts of clear consomme (No. 2) ; add a small 
lump of sugar and salt, if required ; fried crusts of French 
roll may be added. 



15. Aurora Soup. 

This soup can only be made in perfection when the 
carrots are young and juicy. Take carrots, the reddest that 
can be found, scrape them and Avash them ; then remove 
the outside, as far as it is red, and put it into a steAv-pan 
AA'ith a quarter of a pound of butter and half a pound of 
the lean of good-flavoured ham cut in pieces ; set the 
stCAA-pan over a very sIoav fire to soak. When the carrots 
are tender, add tAvo quarts of light consomme (No. 2), and 
let the Avhole boil for an hour ; then rub it through a 
tamm}^ boil the soup again, and if it is too thick, add 
more consomme ; skim it carefully, for this soup should be 
a clear light red colour ; fry some squares of bread in 
clarified butter, and put them into the soup just before 
it is served ; season Avith a little cayenne pepper, salt, and 
sugar. 



SOUPS, 85 

16. Young Carrot Soup. 

Scrape and wash a bundle of young carrots, grate off 
the red parts only without touching the hearts ; put the 
red gratings into a steAV-pan Avith an ounce of fresh butter, a 
little lean ham or bacon, an onion, a turnip, and a bunch 
of leeks and celery. Sweat the roots gently over a slow 
lira, stirring them with a wooden spoon, in order that they 
may all take the same colour ; add a sufficient quantity 
of stock, and let the whole boil slowly for an hour and 
three-quarters; take out the ham and the roots, but strain 
the carrots through a sieve ; pound them in a mortar, 
return them to their liquor, and rub all through a tammy. 
Add some more stock and boil over a quick lire ; when it 
boils, set it at the corner of the stove and skim perfectly; 
add a pinch of sugar to soften the flavour of the roots. 
When thoroughly clarified, serve in a tureen with bread- 
dice lightly fried. This is one of the wholesomest and 
most palatable summer soups I know. I call it, " Do- 
without-the-doctor soup." If for a dinner-party you Avant 
a fancy name for this soup, 3-ou may christen it " Cardinal," 
or " Mazarin," or "Richelieu;" because red is the distinctiA^e 
colour of the vestments of the Princes of the Roman 
Church. Remember also that any dish — soup, fish, or 
entree — dressed AA^th tomatoes, may be styled " a la Portu- 
guaise ;" because Ave seem to have borroAA^d the delicious 
fruit-vegetable in question from the Portuguese kitchen. 



17. Potato or Parmeiitier Soup. 
I have given an alternative " fancy " title to this excellent 
pottage in remembrance of the philanthropist Avho Avas the 
first to introduce the potato into French cooker}^ Parmentier 
Avas a military apothecary, Avho, late in the last centur}-, had 
learnt to believe in the dietetic value of the potato Avhile 



86 THE THOnOUGII GOOD COOK. 

serving with the French armies in Germany. At the outset 
he had to encoimter the bitterest opjDosition both from the 
French Academy of Sciences and the French clergy. The 
first decLared the tuber to be poisonous ; the latter denounced 
it as a " Protestant " vegetable. Parmentier, however, suc- 
ceeded in obtaining the support of Benjamin Franklin and 
pf Lavoisier ; but his triumph was completed when he induced 
Marie Antoinette to accept and wear in her bosom a bouquet 
of potato flowers. "La Liberte et les Patatas" — "Liberty 
and Potatoes " — was a popular cry in Paris in the early days 
of the French Revolution ; and the strip of ornamental garden 
of the Palace of the Tuileries was planted Avith seed potatoes. 

Slice ten large potatoes (kidneys are the best), blanch 
them ; stew them in stock with two leeks and a head of 
celery tied up, and the crumb of a French roll ; when they 
break under the pressure of the finger, take out the bunch of 
herbs, and rub the potatoes through a tammy ; mix with 
a sufiicient quantity of stock, clarify the whole, add a pinch 
of sugar and a little nutmeg. When serving, just after 
boiling point, mix in a pint of milk — nursery milk if you 
can get it and if you can afford it — a third of a pint of 
double cream and a pat of fresh butter. Pour the soup into 
a tureen with some blanched chervil ; fried crusts as usual, to 
make it more toothsome. This is a cheap soup without the 
cream, and eminently relishable. 

You may also make a clear Parmentier soup by using 
finely shredded jDOtatoes mingled with shredded onions in the 
broth, and leaving out the milk and cream. 



18. Old-Fashioned Fea Soup, 

The foundation of this capital and thoroughly English 
(and sea-going) souj? is the stock, otherAvise a liquor in which 
a knuckle of veal or leg of mutton or pork has been boiled. 
But pork liquor is the best; and by all mcai}s, if 2'>ossihle, 



SOUPS. 87 

add to your stock a ham-hone. You sliould let the stock 
get quite cold and perfectly clarified. Taste it, and if too 
salt, add a little water. If you find it too weak, from the 
savoury point of view, boil down in it any bones you may 
have in the house, or a bit of neck or shin of beef. So soon 
as this liquor boils, add your split peas m the proportion of 
one pint of peas to one quart of stock. Then simmer, and 
pulp the whole through a colander. Having done this, 
simmer for a full hour with the ordinary soup vegetables. 
Then strain again. Serve with dried mint finely powdered 
and handed round separately. The seasoning (pepper and 
salt) should be very moderate. 

The only draAvback to pea-soup is that it is said to be 
slightly flatulent. In this connection I remember the case of 
a negro sailor with the curious name of Napoleon Bonaparte 
who was brought up at the Thames Police Court by the 
captain of a merchantman lying in the London Docks, for 
refusing to do his work. Asked what he had to say in answer 
to the charge, the darkey pleaded that he was insufficiently 
fed ; to which his skipper replied that he had a good dinner 
of roast beef and potatoes every day. " Me no want rob beef," 
passionately exclaimed Napoleon Bonaparte, " me want pea- 
soup to blow um belly out ! " Savages think nothing of food 
that does not distend the abdomen. 



19. Pease Pudding. 

Pease pudding is so close an analogue to pea soup that I 
have not hesitated to introduce it in this place. 

MarroAvy " melters," whether Avhole or split, are far the 
best peas for this good dish. Boil them tied loosely in 
a cloth till they Avill j)ulp through a colander ; add salt, 
pepper, two beaten yolks of eggs, a good piece of butter ; 
tie up firml}^, and boil (with pork if boiling) for another 



£8 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

half-hour, or hang the cloth before the fire till the pudding 
gets firm, then turn it out. If you are not too refined, and 
have a stalwart stomach, use dripping instead of butter. It 
will impart a marvellous zest to the pudding. And if you 
wish to make it closely and pleasantly akin to the Italian 
risotto, add some finely minced beef, liver, or kidney. 



20. French Split Pea Soup. 

Having picked three pints of green split peas, put them in 
a stock-pot with a little salt, a piece of fresh butter, and the 
necessary cold water. Add a little lean ham, and simmer 
them for nearly two hours ; take away the ham, and pass 
the soup through a tammy, adding a little broth. Mix 
afterwards the rest of the broth prepared as usual, and boil 
the soup for an hour only ; to clarif}^ add a little sugar and 
butter when taken from the fire ; turn it afterwards by a 
little at a time into the tureen, where you have put a colouring 
of spinach rubbed through a tammy, to give a fine green 
tint. Serve on a plate some bread cut into small dice, and 
fried a light colour in butter. 

As this soup of dried peas can be used in winter, if care- 
fully prepared, the roots of the brunoise or julienne, sorrel, or 
chervil, can be added to it, but it is not sufficiently rich 
to receive the garnitures used in the soups of 3'oung peas, 
although the experiment may be made. In winter there 
are, for variety, cream of rice and pearl barley, and the 
purees of fowl and game. 

21. Green Asparagus Soup. 

Make this as you do green-pea soup (No. 13). Slice and 
pulp part of the asparagus, put the other part, cut into nice 
points and dressed, into the strained soup before serving ; or 



SOUFS. S9 

substitute fried bread cut into dice. Adding broth to cold 
dressed peas, or cut asparagus, heated in broth, will make 
a good and economical soup. 



22. Soup of Asparagus Tips (Potage aux Pointes 
d'Asperges). 

Cut a bundle of small green asparagus (sprew) as for an 
entremet, blanch them of a line green; cool, and strain 
them off, and then lay them out on a napkin ; put them into 
the tureen with some fried crusts, dried in the hot-closet, a 
little sugar, and the broth as usual. The " Potage aux 
Pointes de grosses Asperges" (with the tips of large as- 
paragus) is made in the same manner, using the points only, 
an inch long, of a bundle of large asparagus, and adding some 
chervil, blanched, and a little pepper. 



23. Onion Soup (Potage a la Clermont). 

Brown a dozen small onions (cut in rings) to a nice golden 
tinge, and drain them ;• cook them lightly in broth, and 
stew them for twenty minutes in clear broth coloured 
with veal jelly-gravy, Avhich is the best material knowm for 
colouring soups or sauces. Serve with toasted sippets pre- 
viously soaked in the tureen. 



24. Onion Soup Maigre. 

Chop and fry in clarified butter a dozen large onions, 
two heads of celery, a large carrot, and a turnip. Pulp the 
roots through a tammy, and put them in two quarts of 
boiling water thickened with six ounces of butter kneaded up 
with potato flour and seasoned with mace and white pej)per. 



90 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

The crumb of two penny rolls may be boiled in the water 
instead of the potato flour; but it must then be strained. 
Add bread sippets fried, and thicken with the beaten yolks of 
four eggs. 



25. Benedictine Soup Maigre. 

Melt a half-pound of butter very slowly, and add to it 
four onions sliced, a head of celery, and a carrot and turnip 
cut down. When the vegetables have fried in the butter for 
a quarter of an hour, and are browned on all sides, put to 
them nearly four quarts of boiling water and a pint and a half 
of young peas, with plenty of ground black and Jamaica 
pepper. When the vegetables are quite tender, let the soup 
stand to clear from the sediment and strain it into a clean 
stew-pan. If not yet sufficiently transparent, let it stand 
an hour, and turn it carefully over. When it boils, add to 
it three onions shredded, or live 3"oung ones ; a head of celery 
cut in bits, carrots sliced and cut as wheels or stars, and 
turnips scooped the size of pigeons' eggs or turni2:)-radishes. 
When the vegetables are done enough without the liquid 
getting ropy from their dissolution, the soup is finished. 

This, like all vegetable soups, is the better for a spice of 
cayenne. 



26. Pumpkin Soup Maigre. 

Cut your pumpkin into slices, and put it in boiling water 
for five minutes, with some salt ; take it out ; pound it to a 
pulp, and put it into a saucepan with some melted butter, 
with which warm it up. Put into a tureen some crusts of 
bread spread with butter and sugar ; add the pumpkin pulp ; 
pour in some boiling milk, mix the Avhole, and serve after you 
have let it simmer for ten minutes longer. Or you may make 
your pumpkin soup a savoury one with veal stock. 



SOUPS. 91 



This interesting vegetable is shamefully neglected by 
English cooks. Boiled or fried pumpkin is eaten with roast 
meat in Australia; and pumpkin-pie is one of the nicest of 
American sweet dishes. 



27. Another Soup Maigre. 

Cut small four ounces of sorrel, sixteen ounces of celery, 
and six or eight onions. Fry them in six ounces of butter, 
and stew them three or four hours in three quarts of water. 
Season with pepper, salt, and a little mace, and thicken 
with a tablespoonful of flour, mixed with a teacupful of 
the soup. Beat up the yolks of two eggs in half a pint of 
cream, put it into the tureen, with a large slice of bread 
toasted and cut into dice, and then pour in the stewed in- 
gredients. 

Whenever I prescribe cream, consult your dairyman's 
book. In a multitude of cases good, pure milk will do 
quite as well. 

28. Yet Another Soup Maigre. 

Brown half a pound of butter in a saucepan, and stew 
it for a quarter of an hour with the following ingredients, 
all washed clean and chopped small : — Four cabbage-lettuces, 
two handfuls of spinach, the same of chervil, one handful 
of Avhite beet-leaves, and one of sorrel, three carrots scraped 
down, some 23epper and salt ; add five pints of boiling water, 
and a large slice of the crumb of bread cut thin and dried 
before the fire. Stew gently for two hours, and a little 
before serving thicken with the beaten yolks of three eggs, 
and half a pint of cream or good milk. A pint of green peas 
and the tops of asparagus may be added. 



^2 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

29. Leek Soup, or Cock-a-Leekie. 

Wash and clean three or four dozen leeks ; cut the white 
c\nd tender green part in bits about an inch long, wash 
them again, and put them to drain in a colander or sieve. 
Have ready boiling four quarts of stock, made from beef, 
seasoned with pepper and salt ; put in the leeks, and boil 
them, gently for three hours, adding a foAvl in time to 
allow it to be well boiled, and serve in the tureen. 



30. Cabbage Soup. 

Take three white cabbages, which split, blanch, and place 
in cold water ; then cut the white leaves into pieces 
about an inch square, avoiding the stems as much as 
possible. Boil them in salt and water, with a piece of 
fresh butter as large as an egg. When tender, drain them 
well on a sieve, and pour over two quarts of clear brown 
stock, moderately seasoned with black pepper. Serve with 
the crust of a French roll, cut in pieces of the size of a 
halfpenny. 

31. Scotcli Kale Soup. 

Put barley on in cold water, and when it boils take off 
the scum ; put in any piece of fresh beef and a little salt ; 
let it boil three hours ; have ready a colander full of kale, 
cut small, and boil it tender. Two or three leeks may be 
added with the greens if the flavour is approved of 

This broth is also made A\dth salted beef, which must be 
put in water overnight to soak. 

32. Cucumber and Pea Soup. 

Prepare the broth as usual, and pour it quite boiling 
into a tureen containing a pint of peas dressed a la 



SOUPS. 93 



Fran^aise (that is to say, stewed in broth, butter, and sugar), 
also two cucumbers cut in scollops, as for an entree, and 
dressed in a demi-glaze with a pinch more sugar. 



33. Braised Lettuce Soup. 

Blanch twenty young lettuces ; let them cool, and squeeze 
out the water ; divide each in two without entirely separating ; 
season them slightly with pepper and salt ; fold them up 
again, and arrange them in a stew-pan containing a ladleful of 
veal stock (No. 2) and one of beef broth (No. 1), a small bunch of 
parsley, with a clove, a piece of bay-leaf and thj^me, an onion, 
and a small carrot ; cover them Avith a sheet of buttered 
paper, and let them boil gently for two hours ; drain them on 
a napkin ; trim them neatly ; cut each in two, and place 
them in the tureen with small crusts prepared as usual. 
"When serving, pour in the broth, to which add the liquor 
from the lettuces ; but the bunch of herbs boiled with them 
should afford no high degree of flavour. 



34. Another Braised Lettuce Soup. 

Prepare twenty lettuces, and when divided, but not entirely 
separated, place in each a small spoonful of forcemeat of 
fowl, to which add a little chopped chervil. Surround this 
stuffing Avitli the leaves, giving the lettuces a long shape ; 
tie them with pack-thread to keep them so, and arrange 
them carefully in a stew-pan ; boil them two hours, and serve. 

It is usual in braising lettuces to put slices of bacon 
beneath and above them; but if for soup, they are better 
dressed in broth only, and the necessity for draining and 
pressing them is avoided. 



94 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

35. Cauliflower Soup (Potage k la Puree de Cliouxfleurs). 

Boil three large wliite caiilitlowers in slightly salted water 
until quite tender ; chop them very fine ; put a quarter of 
a pound of butter into a stew-pan; one leek, one head of 
celery (in slices), a quarter of a pound of ham, and two bay- 
leaves ; pass them ten minutes over a quick tire ; add the 
caiditlowers and three tablesj^oonfuls of flour ; mix well ; add 
three quarts of white stock, and one ditto of boiled milk ; 
stir it until boiling ; rub it through a tammy ; boil, and 
skim well ; season with a teaspoonful of sugar, half ditto 
of salt, finish w^ith an " alliance " of two yolks of eggs, mixed 
with a gill of cream ; pour the soup into the tureen ; have 
a cauliflower boiled, and cut into twenty small sprigs; put 
these into the soup, but be sure not to break them. 



36. Cauliflower, Green Broccoli, and Parsley Soup. 

"White or brown stock as preferred. Blanch a head of 
cauliflower, put it in in small pieces, give them a few boils, 
and having cooled and drained them, let them boil in 
broth with some parsle}' blanched. When serving, turn 
it into the tureen containing two heads of broccoli blanched 
by themselves in a preserving pan, to give them a slight 
violet colour, then add the broth and fried crusts. 



37. Bean Soup with Hani or Bacon. 

About a pound of lean ham or bacon nuist be well soaked. 
Pare away the under yellow skin, and boil it an hour. 
MeanAvhile, have boiled some kidney beans, quite soft. They 
must have been soaked the night before. Mash half of 
them through a coarse sieve, and add them to the boiling 
bacon, with an onion, or chives, celery, chervil, etc. Take 
out the bacon, peel the rind off, cut up the meat into thin 



SOUPS. 95 



slices ; return tliis, with the inibruised beans, to the pot, 
and give all a boil up together. The same quantity of 
fresh or salted pork, unsnioked, is, by some, preferred. — 
Good, satisfying, and cheap. 



38. Turnip Soup. 

Slice one-fourth of a Swedish turnip, sweat it in fresh 
butter, and keep it stirring with a wooden spoon to colour it 
equally of a light brown ; then let it simmer in some broth 
for nearly two hours, and rub it through a tammy; add 
broth of fowl prepared in the usual manner ; skim the 
puree to clarify it, and add a pinch of sugar. Serve with 
it fried bread on a plate separately. 



39. Tomato Soup. 

Boil some tomatoes and pass them through a sieve. 
Brown some butter with a dessert-spoonful of flour. Pour in 
some stock; then put in the tomatoes, with pepper and salt. 
When the whole has boiled up thoroughly, add a wineglassful 
of pale sherry and a small quantity of Nepaul pepper, pour 
the whole on to some crusts which you have fried in butter, 
and serve. 



40. Haricot Beau Soup k la Coude. 

Pick and wash three pints of dried red haricots, and stew 
them with a plump young partridge as you would lentils 
(No. 41); skim, and when the partridge is done, take it out, 
with the ham and roots. Rub the puree through a tammy, 



93 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

put it into a stew-pan with broth of fowl, and a Httle 
pepper ; leave it, when boiling, at the corner of the stove to 
clarify for two hours, and serve with it some fried bread, 
separately. 



41. Lentil Soup. 

Pick and wash three f)ints of lentils, which put in a soup- 
pot, with a slice of lean ham blanched, a partridge, a carrot, 
a turnip, an onion, two leeks, and a head of celery, tied 
together ; add the necessary stock, and let it boil slowly for 
three hours ; take out the roots, the partridge, and the ham, 
rub the lentils through a sieve, and add some broth to the 
puree ; set it on to boil, and afterwards place it at the corner 
of the stove to clarify it by taking the scum and grease that 
is thrown up to the side. When serving, pour it into the 
tureen with some bread cut into dice and fried in butter. 



42. More Vegetable Soups. 

Under this head, which in the French kitchen com- 
prehends a variety of soups from green vegetables, roots, and 
pulse, the Scotch nettle-kale and pan-kale might be included, 
and also the Welsh leek porridge, when made w^ithout meat. 
These mild, healthful, and even elegant soups are not neces- 
sarily " meagre ; " the main object of the cook is to have 
them invariably of a fine, clear, pale green colour, which 
is obtained by the expressed juice of spinach, parsley, green 
onions, or peashell-liquor, using the colouring ingredient most 
suitable to the nature of the soup. Vegetable soups require a 
reasonable amount of pepper (" for the stomach's sake "), and, 
as I have said, are generally improved by a spice of cayenne. 
They will not keep for very long. If the vegetables are bitter, 
a morsel of sugar will help to correct that flavour. 



SOUPS. 97 

43. The Basis of Fish Soups. 

The " stock," as it is technically called, may be made either 
of fish or of meat. The former is perhaps the more elegant, 
and is, besides, suited to meagi-e days ; the latter is supposed 
to be the more rich and nourishing. Beef, veal, or the lean 
of mutton, may all be used for fish-stock. "When made of 
fish, a skate, a cod's head, haddocks, whitings, eels, gudgeons,, 
flounders, and other white fish are used, and also the heads, 
fins, and trimmings of the fish which are to be dressed. As 
fish-stock soon becomes sour, it should not be made till it 
is to be used. Boil the fish of which you make the stock 
in two quarts of water, Avith a couple of onions, a piece of 
lemon-peel, and a faggot of sweet herbs. Skim the liquor 
carefully, and strain it. If the fish soup is to be brown, the 
fish Avhich makes the stock may be browned in a frying-paa 
before boilmg. Catsup is generally put to brown fish soup. 



44. Fish Soup. 

Procure three pounds of very fresh grey mullet, clean them 
well, and sprinkle a little salt over them ; then put six ounces 
of the best olive oil into a steAv-pan, Avith a pound-and-a- 
quarter of finely chopped onions, and sufficient salt ; put 
the pan on the fire till the onions are partly broAvned; 
then add a handful of Avashed parsley, and the same of 
mint, both chopped fine, and fry them a little, together Avith 
the onions ; noAv add a pint of the best A\-ine-vinegar, and 
two or three pints of hot or cold Avater, and boil for 
twenty or thirty minutes ; then pass the liquor through a 
sieve into another saucepan, and place the fish in it ; put 
it on the fire, and let it simmer till the fish is done ; then 
take it out and extract all the bones, cut the fish in pieces 
and put these into the tureen ; pass the liquor again 
through a cloth into a stCAv-pan ; put into a basin the 

H 



98 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

yolks of three or four eggs, the juice of one or two lemons, 
and half a teacupful of water previously coloured with two 
drachms of saffron : beat up all together, and add it gradu- 
ally to the liquor ; set it on a moderate fire for ten or 
fifteen minutes, stirring it all the time with a wooden spoon, 
and without permitting it to boil; then pour it over the 
fish, sj^rinkle a little cinnamon and a pinch of Nepaul 
pepper over, and serve. Turbots, soles, and flounders, may 
be done the same way. — Good, but dear. 



45. Fish Soup a la Parisienue. 

Make, with the flesh of a large whiting, some forcemeat 
balls ; take off the fillets of two soles, and an eel ; trim them 
into scollops, and throw a little salt over them ; make an 
essence with the usual roots, herbs, and spices, and add the 
trimmings of the fish, with half a bottle of Chablis or Grave 
wine, and two large spoonfuls of fish broth ; when boiled 
nearly an hour, strain it into a saute-pan, slightly buttered, 
in which you have placed the scollops of fish, having first 
washed and drained them on a napkin ; let them boil ten 
minutes, take out the fillets of soles, and lay them in the 
tureen, but let the eels cook for five minutes longer ; then drain 
and add these to the soles, to which also add the forcemeat 
moulded in a teaspoon, Avith thirty crayfish tails, and the 
same number of small mushrooms. Strain through a silk 
tammy the liquor in which the fish were done, and add 
to it some broth prepared as usual ; let it boil for some 
minutes, and skim it, taking away the slight film occasioned 
by the wine in which the fish were dressed. Add some 
blanched chervil, and serve. 



SOUPS. 99 

46. Bisque of Crayfish. 

This is a pottage which is sent to table on gala days only, 
Avhen you are obliged to make a change of soups. 

Take the best crayfish 3'Ou can procure, according to the 
quantity you may want. (Five or six dozen at least are 
generally requisite.) If you boil the crayfish expressly for the 
occasion, you must not put vinegar. Lay aside two dozen and a 
half of the finest tails that remain whole; the rest, with all the 
meat and fleshy parts of the inside, pound in a mortar with the 
flesh of the breast of two roasted fowls or chickens. Pre- 
viously have soaked or boiled in rich broth the crumb of two 
French penny rolls ; put that also in the mortar, with the 
yolks of three eggs boiled hard. Pound the whole together. 
Next put the shells of the cray-fish to boil in a little broth ; 
then take some of the liquor to dilute the soup with, which 
rub through a tammy. Now boil a pint and a half of cream, 
which you keep continually stirring round, in order to pre- 
vent a scum from rising. Pour that cream into the pottage, 
and season it well. Have the red spawn of a lobster Avell 
pounded, dilute it with some of the broth, and mix it Avith 
your soup, or pottage. Keep it hot Avithout letting it boil. 
Soak a few rounds of bread, which lay at the bottom of the 
tureen. Pour your bisque into the tureen, over the bread ; 
place all round the tureen over the soup the tails that you 
have laid aside previously, and serve up hot. Take care that 
the SOU]) is not too thick ; and season it of a good flavour. 



47. Lobster Soup. 

Take three fine lively young hen lobsters, and boil them ; 

when cold, split the tails, take out the flesh, crack the claws, 

and cut the meat into mouthfuls; take out the coral and 

soft part of the body, and bruise part of the coral in a mortar ; 

H 2 



100 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

pick out tlic flesh from the chines ; beat part of it with the 
coral ; and with this make forcemeat balls, finely flavoured 
with mace or nutmeg, a little grated lemon-peel, anchovy, 
and ca}'enne ; pound these with the yolk of an Qg^^. Have 
three quarts of veal broth ; bruise the small legs and the 
chines, and put them into it to boil for twenty minutes ; 
afterwards strain it ; and then, to thicken it, take the 
spaAvn and bruise it in a mortar with a little butter and 
flour, rub it through a sieve, and add it to the soup, with 
the meat of the lobsters and the remaining coral ; let it 
simmer very gently for ten minutes ; do not let it boil, or 
its tine red colour will immediately fade. Turn into a tureen, 
add the juice of a lemon, and a little essence of anchovy. 

You will see that with the exception of the almond 
flavouring and the cream, this soup is twin sister (soup, in 
French, is feminine) to crayfish soup, or "Bisque d ecrevisses "■ 
(No. 46). Call this, if you like, '■ Bisque de homard." 



48. Another Lobster Soup. 

{A most (UJHcuH one, and ciihj Jit for persons of pcrfcd digestion.) 

Have three middle-sized, or five small lobsters — hen 
lobsters if possible — ready boiled, and five jDints of veal 
gravy, though beef or n:iutton stock will answer very well. 
Break off and bruise in a mortar the small claws and fins, 
with an anchovy, a piece of lemon-peel, and a couple of 
onions. Put these to the stock, and simmer till you have 
obtained all the strength and flavour they contain. Strain 
off the stock. Split the tails, crack without mangling the 
great claws and carefully take out the meat, cutting it into- 
small pieces, and lay it aside. Pick the meat from the chine, 
and take part of the coral, the soft part of a few oysters, an 
anchovy, the quarter of a nutmeg, a blade of mace, a little 



SOUPS. 101 

cayenne, and a teaspoonful of lemon-peel grated. Put these 
in a mortar, beat them up with the yolks of two eggs and a 
Tery little flour ; make of this a dozen or more small force- 
meat balls for the soup. Next bruise the spawn in the 
mortar with a little flour, and, rubbing it through a sieve, 
put the balls, with the meat of the claws and tails and the 
coral left from the forcemeat, into the soup. Fr}- the force- 
meat balls first, if you like, or brown them in a Dutch oven ; 
after putting them in, the soup may simmer for a quarter 
of an hour, but nmst not boil. Squeeze the juice of a lemon 
or a Seville orange through a strainer into the tureen, and 
serve. 



49. A Cheaper Lobster Scup. 

Make a good stock of a piece of beef, a slice of ham, 
butter, a good many onions, and some pepper, and any fish 
and lobster trimmings you may have. Strain the stock, 
pulping the onions ; pound the spawn and body of the 
lobster as above, and stir into the soup. Mix it smoothly 
with the stock; season with cayenne and white pepper — a 
glass of sherry, if 3'ou like — skim off the scum, and add the 
cut bits of the tail and claws as directed above. 



50. Lady Morgan Soup. 

Lady Morgan (wife of Sir Charles Morgan, a physician) 
was popular between 1820 and 1835 as a lively novelist. She 
Avas a great friend of the famous Careme, Avho invented this 
soup in her honour. 

Raise the fillets from a middle-sized plaice, a sole, and a 
small eel ; cut up the bones and trimmings of the fillets, which 
put in a stew-pan, adding half a bottle of champagne, the 



102 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

Hesh of a lemon, tlie skins of a pound of truffles, a pottle 
of mushrooms, two onions, a carrot, a head of celery, and two 
leeks, the whole sliced ; half a bay-leaf, a little thyme, basil, 
savouiy marjoram, a little grated nutmeg and cayenne 
pepper, two cloves, two anchoyies washed, and a little salt ; 
sinnner these for an hour, and strain throuoh a silk sieve, 
to add afterwards to some veal stock. Now "jump" the 
fillets of the fish, and trim them in scollops ; make a large 
whiting into forcemeat, using instead of the fresh butter^ 
a butter of crayfish, mould it into small balls Avith 
teaspoons, and poach them in some broth. Cut the 
truffles that were skinned and dressed in stock with a 
root-cutter one inch in diameter, to scollop them after- 
wards, one-sixth of an inch in thickness. AVhen about to 
serve, strain the forcemeat balls, la}' them in the tureen witli 
the scollops of fish drained on'a napkin, as also the truffles, and 
twenty mushrooms turned, two dozen oysters, as usually 
prepared, as many tails of prawns, and the crayfish tails, from 
the shells of which the butter is composed ; clarify the 
broth for the soup, having added to it the trimmings of 
the fish and their stock, as also the stock in which the 
forcemeat and trufiies were dressed, the liquor from the 
mushrooms, and a tablespoonful of the oyster liquor. 
When serving, pour the soup boiling into the tureen garn- 
ished as above. 



61. Fisherman's Soup (Potage de Poisson a la Mariniere). 

Clean a small pike, a tench, a carp, and a middling- sized 
eel, cut them in small lengths, and throw over them a little 
sea-salt to cleanse and salt them at the same time ; an hour 
after, Avash and drain them on a napkin ; then lay each fish 
separately in a saute-pan, containing two onions, tAvo carrots, 
and a pottle of mushrooms, sliced, some parsley roots, bay- 



SOUPS. 103 

leaf, basil, tliyme, two cloves, a clove of garlic, a pinch of 
pepper, and grated nutmeg, half a pint of Marsala, and a 
ladleful of broth ; let them sinnner for ten minutes, take 
out the carp, and ten minutes afterwards drain the remaining 
fishes on a baking sheet, observing that no fragment of 
the seasoning remains about them ; lay them gradually in 
the tureen, which cover and place in the hot closet ; strain the 
essence of the fishes through a sieve ; add it to some brown 
broth ; clarify it, and pour it into the tureen while boiling, 
minCTlinsf with it roots dressed in broth. 

I commend this dish (which is a kind of fresh-water 
" bouillabaisse ") to dwellers in houseboats, and anglers in the 
backwaters of the Upper Thames — if there are any fish left 
in the Upper Thames ! 



52. Soup Curry of Fish. 

Prepare a white broth with fish {see No. 43), and to 
this add eight ounces of rice that has been blanched; boil 
the soup till the rice is tender, trim some fillets of lampreys, 
or eels, into small scollops, and lay them on a buttered 
saute-pan ; make forcemeat balls of salmon ; pour over the 
scollops half a pint of Chablis, and the same quantity 
of white broth, and let them simmer slowly for a quarter of 
an hour ; drain them, and arrange them with the quenelles 
at the bottom of the tureen, strain the liquor the scollops 
were done in into the soup, skim, and pour it into the tureen. 



53. Oyster Soup. 

Take two quarts of strong clear stock, whether of fish 
or veal or chicken ; add the hard-boiled yolks of six eggs, 
and the hard parts of a quart of fresh juicy oysters, 



104 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

previously well pounded in a mortar ; simmer for half an hour, 
and strain into a fresh stew-pan, in which have the 
remainder of the quart of oysters, cleared from the beards, 
and washed ; season with mace and cayenne, and let the 
oysters simmer for eight minutes, when the yolks of three 
eggs well beaten may be stirred into a little of the cool 
sotip, and gradually mixed with the whole quantity, drawing 
aside the stew-pan and constantly stirring, lest the eggs 
ourdle. When smooth and thick, serve in a tureen, and 
keep stirring the soup for a minute, to prevent curdling. 

Bear in mind that there are always cheap "cooking" oysters 
as well as costly ones. I am not such a simpleton as to 
advise anybody save nabobs to use " natives " in making this 
delicious pottage. Please to remember, Mrs. Working Man's 
AVife, if I may go out of my way to give you a hint, that you 
can make a most succulent soup from periwinkles or from 
whelks. You like hot eel soup, don't you ? Well, try a hot 
decoction of " winkles " or whelks. I am sure that your 
husband will lilvc it when he comes home from work. 



54. Conger Eel Soup. 

Put a bunch of savoury herbs into a saucepan, with a 
large carrot sliced, two large onions, and two bay-leaves. 
Fry them to a light brown, then add four quarts of water. 
Let it boil, skim it well, season it with one ounce of salt 
and half an ounce of pepper, and put into it five pounds of 
the head and tail part of a conger-eel. Simmer gently and 
continuously for two hours, strain the soup, and add to 
it a pint of green peas. A few minutes before it is served 
put in a pint of new milk. This is sufficient for five pints 
of soup. — You are not, if you please, to condemn conger eel. 
Well dressed, it is a valuable adjunct to the table. 



SOUPS. 105 

55. Fish Chowder. 

[Boston Style.) 

Take a nice cod-fish of about six pounds, cut the head 
off and remove all the bones, then cut the tish into square 
pieces, place them in a bowl, and add half a pinch of salt and 
a pint of cold Avater, so as to have the flesh firm. Take 
the head and bones, place them in a saucepan with two quarts 
of white broth on the stove, and, as soon as it comes to 
the boil, skim well. Season with one pinch of salt and half a 
pinch of pepper. Let it boil for twenty minutes. Peel and 
slice very fine one small onion, place it in a saucepan with 
one ounce of butter, half an ounce of salt pork cut in small 
dice-shaped pieces, let boil for five minutes, then add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour. Stir well together for three 
minutes on a brisk Are, being careful not to let it get brown. 
Strain the broth into a bowl, and add it to the flour, stirring 
well until all the broth is added. Let it boil for ten minutes. 
Cut two good-sized sound potatoes into small dice-shaped 
pieces, add them to the soup. Boil live minutes. Drain 
the cod-fish, wash it once more, and add it to the soup. Boil 
five minutes more ; add half a pint of cold milk, being very 
careful not to allow to boil again ; sprinkle a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley over, and serve very hot. 



56. Mock Turtle Soup. 

Parboil half a calfs head, take off the skin, and cut it in 
pieces about an inch and a half square : cut the fleshy parts 
in morsels ; take out the black parts of the eyes, and cut the 
rest in rings; skin the tongue, and cut in slices; add it 
all to three pints of good stock, and season with a little 
cayenne, two blades of mace, salt, the peel of the quarter 
of a lemon, and a quarter of a pint of sherry, with a dozen of 



103 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

forcemeat balls ; stew all tliis three-quarters of an hour : rub 
clown with a little cold water, a tablespoonful of flour ; mix 
carefully with it a quarter of a pint of the soup, and then 
stir into the pot ; put in the juice of a quarter of a large 
lemon, and the hard-boiled yolks of four eggs ; let it simmer 
for ten minutes, and then put it all in the tureen. 

" If eggs are scarce, boil two hard ; pound the yolks in 
a mortar with a pinch of salt, adding the yolk of a raw egg ; 
when mixed together, put them on a table dusted with 
flour, roll them in the form of a small sausage, and cut them 
into very small equal parts ; round every piece in the palm 
of the hand with a little flour, and put them on a plate as 
they are done ; give them a boil in boiling water, then put 
in fresh cold water. Drain them through a tammy before 
putting them into the soup, ragout, or any dressed dish. 



57. Mock Turtle a I'Amiral Duperre. 

{From the French Admiral of that name.) 

Take the fillets from a sole, cut them in scollops, and 
brown them lightly in butter with a little pepper and salt ; 
put the fragments of the sole, with the butter from the 
frying-pan, into a stewpan with the trimmings from a small 
slice of salmon (the flesh of which make into a forcemeat ball 
with butter), a pottle of nmshrooms, two onions, and two 
carrots sliced ; a little whole parsley, two anchovies washed, 
a little lean ham minced, half a clove of garlic, a pinch of 
23epper, allspice, cayenne, mace, two cloves, half a pint of 
Chablis, and two ladlefuls of broth ; boil these slowly for 
an hour ; squeeze through a tamni}', and add the essence of 
a Spanish sauce ; pour into the tureen containing the scollops 
of soles the balls of salmon moulded into a teaspoon, two 
sweetbreads cut in scollops, also mushrooms and cocks'- 



SOUPS. 107 

combs. Serve. — This is an expensive dish, and becomes 
even costKer when sUced truffles are added. 

Ohs. — It is a curious fact that while the majority of French 
gourmets will willingly partake of " fausse tortue/' or mock 
turtle, the}^ usually regard real turtle with abhorrence. 



58. Parisian Mock Turtle. 

Take a fat calf's head (choose the thickest skin) ; let it 
disgorge that it may be very white, bone and cut it in four 
pieces, and remove the ears and the fleshy parts ; then stew 
it and drain it afterwards on a baking sheet, and lay upon it 
a large stew-pan cover, on which place a weight of ten pounds ; 
when it is cold, cut it with a round iron cutter one inch in 
diameter, and take from each piece any flesh or fat that 
adheres to it. Put the head thus prepared into a saute-plate, 
with twelve fine combs, twenty-four cocks' kidneys, and as 
many small white mushrooms ; add half a pint of dry Madeira, 
and simmer the whole over a slow fire for ten minutes ; then 
put it into a Spanish sauce well made and well clarified 
(this sauce should constitute the body of the souj), instead 
of the usual broth), to which add an essence thus pre- 
pared: Put in a stewpan two carrots, two onions, a pottle 
of mushrooms cut up, a little whole parsley, half a bay-leaf, 
a little thyme, basil, rosemary, marjoram, a little lean ham 
cut into dice, three anchovies washed and boned, a pinch of 
cayenne pepper, the same of allspice, two cloves, and a little 
mace ; add a ladleful of broth, and half a pint of 
Madeira ; simmer for an hour, and then rub the essence 
through a tammy. Add this to the soup, let it boil for a 
quarter of an hour, skim off the light skin from the top, and 
pour it into the tureen containing a plateful of small force- 
meat balls of chicken, in one half of Avhich you put a little 



lOS THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

parsley, cliopped and blanched, while in the other half a 
few mushrooms, chopped very fine and squeezed in the corner 
of a napkin, must be mingled. This is em})haticany " a 
dish to set before a king." 

It is to be remarked that none of the spices should pre- 
vail except the ca^^enne pej^per ; and even this should scarcely 
n>ake itself felt. Many persons add a wine-glass of Madeira 
just before taking the soup from the stove, and others put 
.slices of lemon ; that depends on the taste. " But I never 
put them," says M. Careme. 



59. Sheep's Head Broth. 

Take a fat young head and a " gang " of trotters, all 
■carefully singed. Wash and scrape them well, and let 
them soak in cold water for an hour or two. Take out 
the eyes, split the head into halves and remove the brains. 
Shorten the jawbones where there is no flesh, and cut out 
the gristle inside the nose. Prepare the trotters for dressing ; 
wash and brush the feet once more, and leave them in water 
till wanted. Put the two halves of the head together and 
tie a string round to keep the brains and the tongue in 
their proper positions. Lay it in a saucepan with a j^ound 
of the scrag-end of a neck of mutton, a large cupful of 
barley, and about half a pint of dried peas which have 
been well soaked for twenty-four hours in cold Avater. Pour 
over all a gallon of water, and add a little salt; boil the 
contents of the stew-pan very gently, and carefull}^ remove 
the scum as it rises. When the head has boiled an hour, 
put in the trotters, and at the end of two hours add two 
carrots, two turnips, and two onions, all sliced together, with 
a few sticks of celery if liked. Boil the head three hours 
or three hours and a half longer, and remember that the 



SOUPS. 10» 

more slowly it is boiled the better will be the broth, head, 
and soup. Serve the head on a dish with the trotters round it. 
I fear that this most wholesome and appetising dish will 
never reach the tables of the great. But, when they are 
satiated Avith Potage a la Reine, Puree d'asperges, and so forth, 
they might give sheep's head broth (for which, of course, we- 
are indebted to Scotland) a trial. 



60. Queen Soup (Potage a la Heine). 

Skin and clean two rabbits ; let them be Avashed in Avarm 
Avater ; stCAv for an hour Avith sufficient strong A^eal broth, 
to coA^er the meat, and a bunch of parsley. Take out the- 
rabbits, and soak the crumb of a penny loaf in the liquor ; 
cut the meat oft' and pound the flesh in a mortar, adding 
the soaked crumb and the 3'olks of four hard-boiled eggs ;. 
rub this through a coarse sicA^e or tammy, and add to it 
a quart of nursery milk that has been previously boiled. 

This is the cheapest form of one of the most ancient 
and most delicate of soups. Why it should be knoAAai in 
France as Potage a la Rcine has long been a mj'stery ; but 
I venture to surmise that the Sovereign in question Avas 
Mary Queen of Scots. At all events, it has long been highly 
popular as " Queen " soup in Scotland. 



61. Another Old Scotch White Soup (Potage a la Heine). 

Take a large knuckle of the Avhitest veal that you can 
get ; but in these days, for humanitarian reasons, calves are 
no longer "bled," and the meat is tw^o or three shades, 
darker than Avas formerly the case. Let the knuckle be Avell 
broken and soaked ; then take a foAvl skinned, or tAvo chickens ; 
a quarter of a pound of Avell- coloured lean undressed bacon;. 



110 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

lemon-thyme, onions, carrot, celery, and a turnip, a few white 
peppercorns, and two blades of mace. Boil for about two 
hours ; skimming repeatedly and carefully during that time. 
When the stock is Avell flavoured, strain it off. It should form 
a jelly. When to be used, take off the upper layer of fat, 
clear off the sediment, and put the jelly into a tin sauce23an, 
or a stew-pan well tinned ; boil for half an hour, and serve 
on a couple of rounds of a small French roll ; or with 
macaroni previously soaked and stewed in the soup till 
perfectly soft ; or vermicelli. This is an excellent plain 
white soujD ; it is promoted to an a la Reine soup as 
follows : — 

Take half a pound of sweet almonds, blanched (that is, 
scalded, and the husks rubbed off), the hard-boiled yolks 
of three eggs, and the skinned breast and white parts of a 
cold roast fowl ; beat the almonds to a paste in a mortar, 
with a little water, to j^revent their oiling ; mince very finely 
the fowl and eggs, and some bread-crumbs. Add to this a 
pint or more of the stock; lemon-peel, and a scrape of 
nutmeg ; bring it to the boil, and put to it a pint of boiling 
sweet cream and the rest of the stock. Let it for a con- 
siderable time be on the very verge of boiling, that it inay 
thicken, but take care it does not boil, lest the cream curdle. 
Strain through a sieve. Yolks of eofsfs will do for half the 
quantity of cream. 



62. Another and more artistic way :— the supreme way, in 

short. 

Put into a saucepan two quarts of water, two large onions 
halved, a little of the Avhite part of some celcr}^, thyme, and 
bay-leaf, two ounces of butter, and a little salt. Bring this 
to the boil ; then put in one or two fowls, according to the 
amount of soup required ; cover the saucepan, then boil till 
the ingredients are thoroughly cooked, and let it cool. 



SOUPS. Ill 

Blanch forty sweet almonds ; take some bread-crumb soaked 
in milk, and make it into a ball ; remove the flesh of the 
fowls from the bones, chop it very finely : pound the almonds 
in a mortar, then add the meat of the fowls and the bread- 
crumb, and pound it all together ; moisten with a little 
chicken broth or some white stock; skim off the fat, pass 
through a hair-sieve, and keep it hot without boiling. Just 
before serving, place some crusts fried in butter and moist- 
ened with broth, a pint of boiling cream or good milk, 
and a little white sugar in the tureen, and pour the chicken 
broth on to them. Here you have a more elaborate and 
expensive soup. 

This is the potage a la Reine which Napoleon, when in 
exile at St. Helena, could always eat with appetite. It was 
served in a small silver tureen. On one occasion when (in 
order to spite Sir Hudson Lowe) he pretended to be in 
pecuniary distress, although he had 140,000 francs of gold in 
his strong-box at the time, he sent down a quantity of his 
plate to Longwood to be sold. But his attendants had the 
thoughtful tact to reserve the soup tureen, and it was with 
peculiar gratification that the exile ate his potage a la Reine 
that evening from the accustomed silver bowl, inscribed with 
the initial " N " and the Imperial arms. 



63. Ox-rump or Ox-tail Soup. 

According to Mr. Gladstone, it was the French Husfuenots 
who took refuge in England after the revocation of the Edict 
of Nantes Avho taught English Avorking people how to make 
ox-tail soup. I greatly doubt this. 

Two tails, or, if small, three, will make a large tureen of 
soup. Let the butcher divide them at the joints. Rub them 
with salt, and soak them well in lukewarm water. Place 



112 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

them in a stew-pan "with fonr onions, a bunch of parsley^ 
two dozen of Jamaica and black pej^percorns (or half an 
ounce, if high peppering is wanted), a turnip and a carrot 
or two sliced, with three quarts of water. When the meat 
is tender, which will bo in two hours and a half, lift it out, 
and cut it into small mouthfuls. Thicken the soup with a 
little browned Hour, rubbed up with a ladleful of top-fat ; 
strain it into a fresh stew-pan, put in the cut meat, boil 
up, and skim, and finish with a spoonful of mushroom 
catsup, and i^epper to taste. 

Ohs. — Ox-tail makes an excellent onion soup by 
adding to it, when strained, a dozen fried onions j^ulped, 
and thickening it with potato flour. The tails, cut in bits, 
may be put to boil at once. Some cooks add red wine : 
then no catsup is needed. For a party of gentlemen with 
hearty appetites you should procure only large tails with 
plenty of meat on them ; and this meat must not be cut 
off the joints, but left on. Some hostesses, when they know 
that their guests have "hunters' appetites," place minia- 
ture cheese-plates by the side of the soup-plates, and to the 
first-named the joints of ox-tail may be transferred with a 
knife and fork, a miniature mustard-pot and salt-cellar 
flanking each plate. 

There used formerly to be procurable at a well-known 
hotel under the Piazzas, .Co vent Garden, a souj) known as 
" thick ox-tail," Avhich was simply ordinary ox-tail with a 
little thickening in the stock and a liberal quantity of 
various ves'etables. 



64. Soup and Stew a la Boucliee. 

By the above name the reader is to understand all soups 
and broths in which meat, fowl, or fish, cut in mouthfuls, is 
dressed and served. Such, for example, are mock-turtle 



SOUPS. 11$ 

soup, lobster soup, oyster soup, and others for which I have 
given directions. This important section, it should be noted, 
comprises not only the Oriental mulligatawny and the ole- 
aginous ox-tail, but even the spicy and luscious turtle. 



65. Old Scotch Brown Soup. 

Make the stock as directed for beef broth (No. 17), but 
brown the meat a little more, and, when ready, put with 
it two pounds of rump steak, cut rather small and browned 
in a frying-pan, but drained from the frying-fat. Simmer 
the steak in the soup for an hour ; strain it ; add a small 
glassful of catsup, with salt, pepper, and a dust of cayenne ; 
slip toasted sippets into the tureen, and skim off the fat. 
Serve the soup with the steak in it. Without the steak, this 
is plain brown soup. 



66. Lord Warden Soup. 

Take a knuckle of veal, or two or three short shanks; 
boil about four hours, with some whole white pej^per, a little 
mace, salt, two onions, and a small slice of lean ham ; strain 
it, and, when cold, take off all the fat and sediment; beat 
up the yolks of six eggs, and mix them Avith a pint of cream 
or good rich milk ; then pour the boiling soup upon it by 
degrees, stirring well ; and if the gristle is liked, add the 
best part of it. 



67. Fotage a la Diable. 

Having prepared a broth, fortify it, not with cayenne 
pepper or curry powder, but with whole chillies tied up in 
I 



114 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

a silk bag, which boil up with the stock. Meanwhile, 
prepare as many slices, including crust, of a French roll as 
there are guests; plunge these circular slices of bread in 
the broth for a minute or two, and press out excessive 
moisture with the flat of a knife ; butter them well on both 
sides, and sprinkle hem plentifully with grated Parmesan 
cheese ; then place them in a stew-pan with just enough 
butter to prevent them from burning, and "jump" them (to 
*' jump " is equivalent to the French term " sauter ") lightly 
till they begm to take colour. Then place them in the 
bottom of a tureen and pour the broth over them. 



68. Beef and Cabbage Soup. 

This is the natural soup of the whole of European Russia, 
eaten by all classes. There is an ex23ensive and there is a 
cheap way of preparing it. You have already been told (page 
3) that this soup has a name the pronunciation of wdiich, 
in Russ, sounds precisely like a sneeze. Its name is " Stcht." 

Prepare a good stock-pot of broth made of beef and 
bacon, and a duck ; chop two onions, which fry with butter 
in a stew-pan ; mix with two tablespoonfuls of flour, which 
fry for five minutes ; dilute w^ith the prepared broth, which 
you have previously passed through a tammy ; then stir the 
liquid until boiling ; remove it to a corner of the stove, skim 
the fat, and let it slowly cook for an hour. Meanwhile, 
blanch two fine crisp cabbages, cut in quarters, put into a 
stew-pan, the bottom of Avhich is spread with moderately fat 
bacon ; add a few young carrots and parsley, and a leek or 
two cut into oblong pieces ; let them braise together in the 
bacon fat. When done, drain them carefully through a sieve 
and put them into the tureen with the remainder of the 
broth, with a few fillets of duck and some little blocks of the 



SOUPS. 115 

boiled beef and lean bacon. Skim your fat off the soup, and 
add three pinches of chopped green fennel ; have ready a 
butter-boat of half-sour cream, which pour into the soup 
when served. 

If 3'Ou are afraid of the cholera, vou. can, of course, 
omit the sour cream. 



69. Th3 Jacobin's Pottage. 

This sounds like an ultra-democratic dish ; but it is in 
reality a conventual one. Prior to the first Revolution it wu^ 
a standing dish on high days and holidays at the Monastery 
of the Jacobins in Paris. 

Take the flesh of a cold capon or turkey ; mince it as 
small as you can ; then grate into the meat two or three 
ounces of Parmesan or old Dutch cheese ; season it with 
beaten cloves, nutmeg, mace, and salt ; then take the bottoms 
and tops of four or five French rolls, dry them before the fire 
or in an oven : next put them into a dish ; set it upon the 
fire, wet your bread with a ladleful of strong broth, and a 
ladleful of mutton broth ; then throw on your minced 
meat all of an equal thickness in each place, stick twelve 
or eighteen pieces of marrow as big as Avalnuts, and pour 
on a ladleful of mutton broth ; cover your dish close, 
and as it stews add now and then some mutton broth; 
thrust your knife sometimes to the bottom, to keep the bread 
from sticking to the dish ; let it continue to stew till you 
arc ready to dish it up ; and when you serve it, squeeze 
in the juice of two or three oranges. This is a dear and 
rather gluttonous dish. 



I 2 



116 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

70. Hotch-PotcK. 

This is a kind of Engiisli " Jacobin." Cut into dice a 
liberal quantity of young turnips and carrots, with one or two 
lettuces cut very small, the tops of some cauliflowers, and a 
pint of full-grown peas ; boil them gently in four cjuarts of 
boiling water for two hours; cut into neat chops a loin, or 
i^he best end of a leg of mutton, add them to the vegetables, 
with salt, j^epper, and some onions cut small ; let the whole 
boil an hour and a halt, then add three pints of green peas, 
and boil half an hour longer, Avhen it is ready to serve. 



71. Ravioli Soup. 

Take tl.'' ^)reast of a roast foAvl, chopped and pounded 
with an ounce of Parmesan, a yolk of egg, a tablespoonful 
of the white, and a few boiled parsley leaves to colour it. 
Season with cayenne, a little salt, and a very small piece 
of garlic. Roll out a sheet of paste made of macaroni flour, 
'out a line in thickness, and big enough to cut out Avith 
a nuted v.. ...or a dozen and a half round pieces as big as a 
native oyster-shell. On each piece place a little of your 
stuffing, not exactly in the middle, and fold the paste over it, 
so that the edges come together ; wet the edges and press them 
together ; and with the point of the knife make a small hole 
at the top. Blanch these in broth that is boiling; they 
will lie done in about eight nunutos ; after which take them 
carefully out, drain them on a napkin, and put them into 
two quarts of good brown broth, which keep for ten minutes 
on the stove. A plate of Parmesan is served with the soup. 



72. Mxilligatawiiy Soup. 

Put into a stewpan about a quarter of a pound of butter, 
an onion, two apples, a few shallots, and two ounces of 



SOUPS. ]17 

ham, all sliced ; fry them a little with an ounce of curry- 
powder, a teaspoonful of turmeric, a tablespoonful of Hour, 
to form a thickening, Avhich dilute with three pints of white 
broth ; take two small chickens, which cut up as for a 
fricassee, and put them into your stew-pan, stirring until 
it boils ; your soup must not be thick, oi it will not throw 
up the scum ; skim it carefully. As soon as the chickens 
are done, take them out and trim them ; put them into 
another stew-pan, to which transfer the soup, ru^ ^ ^ through 
a tammy. A plate of hot boiled rice is alwa}s sent up 
Avith this soup. 



73. White Mulligatawny Soup. 

Mix the above gradually with a liquor formed o± six 
yolks of eggs, half a pint of cream, and the same quantity 
of almond milk, Avith a lump of butter the size of a walnut 
broken in small pieces. If to be kept hot, put it in the bain- 
marie or metal bath. 



74. Another Mulligatawny Soup. 

Break and wash a knuckle of veal, and put it to boil 
in three quarts of water, with a quarter of an ounce of 
Jamaica peppercorns. Place skewers at the bottom of your 
stew-pan to prevent the meat from sticking. Add a 
few slices of lean bacon. Skim the stock carefully when 
it comes to the boil, and let it simmer an hour and a halt 
before straining it. Cut three pounds of breast of veal 
into small pieces, adding the trimming, bones, and gristle of 
the breast to the water in which the knuckle is put to 
boil. Fry the pieces of veal and six sliced onions in a deep 
stewpan to a golden brown. Put the strained stock to these ; 
slcim carefully ; and when the soup and meat have simmered 



118 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

three-quarters of an hour, mix two dessertspoonfuls of eurry 
powder, and the same quantity of lightly browned flour, mixed 
to a smooth Latter, with salt and ca3"enne to taste. Add 
these to the soup, and stew and simmer till the meat is 
quite tender. 

This soup may be made of fowls cut in pieces ; of rabbits, 
er mutton cutlets ; but is best when made of well-fed veal. 
For East Indian palates, shallots, mace, and ginger may be 
employed ; but the quantity^ must be left to the discretion 
of the coolv. Curry or Mulligatawny soup may be varied 
in fifty ways. Good stocks and the curry seasonings are the 
essentials ; and next, the carefull}- boiled rice which should 
always be served with the soup. 



75. Rabbit Soup. 

C*ut an old rabbit into pieces, put these into a quart 
of water, boil it well ; take out all the bones, and beat the 
meat in a marble mortar, as for potting; add a little salt, 
mace, and white pepper, to your taste ; stir it into the liquor 
the rabbit was boiled in, Avith the addition of some cream. 

This is the cheapest form of my beloved " Potage h la 
Reine" (Nos. 60, 61, 62). You ought to be able to get a 
good enough rabbit for tenpence. 



76. Ivory Soup (Potage a I'lvoire). 

Remove the lungs, the heart, and the liver from a fowl : 
then put it into a saucepan Avitli some white stock ; skim and 
put in two carrots stuck with cloves, celery, a leek, Avith a 
little salt. Boil gently for an hour and a quarter ; then 
drain off all the vegetables and clarify the liquor. Remove 



SOUPS. 119 

the flesh from the bones of the fowl, pound the meat, adding 
a few potatoes previously boiled, and pass through the 
sieve. Moisten Avith a little of the liquor, till the soup is 
of the consistence of cream ; when ready for serving, with 
or without crusts, add a good-sized piece of fresh butter. 
This, you will perceive, minus the potatoes, is only another 
form of the ancient " Queen soup " or " Potage a la Reine " 
(Xos. 60, 61, 62). 



77. Puree of Fowl a la Monglas. 

{So named from the Inventor.) 

I have abstained, as much as I possibly could, from using 
French terms in this work ; but I am absolutely compelled 
to employ the French word "puree;" because "puree" means 
a thick, in contradistinction to a clear soup. This soup is 
prepared precisely as "Potage a la Reine" (Xos. 60, 61, 62) 
is made. Serve it with a scollop of fat livers, prepared as 
follows : DisQforofe a fat liver from Strasburg, blanch it for 
a second ; when cold, dry it and surround it with slices of 
fat bacon, and dress it in a "mirepoix." (Now, both the 
General Reader, the Lady of the House, and Mrs. Cook may 
ask what a " mirepoix " may be. The word is rarely found in 
Anglo-French dictionaries. A " mirepoix " is simply rich 
gravy of white and brown stock thickened with herbs and 
seasoned with condiments in which meat is slowly stewed. 
" Mirepoix " is not a technical culinary term. It was mani- 
festly coined under the Ancien Regime by a chef in the 
service of the Due de Mirepoix.) Simmer it for half an 
hour, and let it cool in the mirepoix ; then drain, and trim it 
neatly into scollops, one inch in diameter and a quarter of 
an inch in thickness, which lay in the tureen with a very 
little boiling broth, and five minutes after pour in the 
puree of fowl, with which you have mixed the consomme 
of fowl. 



120 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

78. Puree of Hare Soup. 

Cut up the reniaiiis of a hare that has been roasted 
for a former dinner ; put a few shces of ham into a steAv- 
pan, then the hare, two whole onions, a bhide of mace, two 
quarts of stock, and a faggot composed of a sprig of thyme, 
parsley, a little basil, and two cloves ; set it on a stove 
to' simmer two hours or more ; strain it off, pull all the 
meat from the bones, and pound it with a lean ham boiled 
with it, and the crust of two French rolls which have been 
soaked in broth ; rub the whole through a tammy, with a 
pint of boiled claret or port, and enough broth to bring it 
to the consistence of cream ; put it in a stew-pan surrounded 
by a larger one of boiling water. Work a little butter into 
it, and serve with sippets. 



79. Puree of White Beans. 

Chop some onions and fry them lightly in a little butter 
and flour, and moisten with a teaspoonful of broth ; let the 
onions be done ; boil the beans in this for half an hour, 
season them well, use white pepper, and strain them through 
a tammy; reduce the puree over a brisk fire, take off the 
white scum, and before you serve refine it with a morsel ot 
fresh butter and two teaspoonfuls of thick cream ; garnish it 
Avith fried crusts of bread. 



80. Puree of Game. 

Roast either partridges or pheasants, or both may be 
used together; they should not be too much roasted, and 
while they are warm, take off the meat from the bones and 
pound it immediately in a marble mortar; put the bones 
into a stew-pan, cover them with consomme (No. 2), put in 



-_ . _ SOUPS, 1-21 

two onions, a carrot, and a turnip ; boil all together for 
half an hour, then strain it through a silk sieve, skim off 
the fat, mix it by degrees with the jjounded meat, and rub 
it through a tammy ; it is then to be put into a clean soup 
pot, and the soup warmed in a hain-marie, to prevent 
it boiling. 

Ohs. — No spice should be used, but preserve as much 
as possible the flavour of the game. 



81. Puree of Partridges, 

Pick the meat from the remains of partridges, and chop 
and pound it ; make a brown sauce (p. 328), and moisten it, 
half with white wine and half with bouillon. Add the bones 
of the birds, a bunch of mixed herbs, pepper, salt, and nut- 
meg, and stew the whole an hour ; pass it through a tammy 
or sieve. "With this sauce dilute the puree, strain it, keep it 
hot without boiling, and serve it with poached eggs above. 

The puree is also served in small croustades of bread, 
prepared as follows : — Cut some large crusts of bread round 
with a knife, hollow them out, and fry them ; and when 
done, fill them w^ith the puree. 



82. Puree of Game— Hunter's Mode (Potage de Puree de 
Gibier a la Chasseur). 

Roast four partridges, surrounded with slices of fat bacon ; 
take off all the meat, and thoroughly pound it ; then mingle 
it with one ounce of rice dressed in broth, and two 
ounces of the crumb of a French roll: beat these together, 
and add two spoonfuls of Bechamel sauce (p. 327), one of 
Spanish (p. 347), and eight of stock ; make the soup hot over 



122 THE THORaUGH GOOD COOK. 

a slow fire, and rub it through a tammy. When servmg, 
mingle the broth by degrees, to "which broth, being masked 
as usual, the carcases of the partridges should haye been 
added, and put into the soup a plateful of crusts in small 
dice, and fried of a light brown colour in butter. 



83. Game Soup. 

In the game season it is easy for a cook to prepare 
a really good soup at a very small expense by taking 
the meat off the breasts of any cold birds which haye 
been left the preceding day, pounding them in a mortar, 
beating to pieces the legs and bones, and boiling the 
whole in some broth for an hour. Then boil six turnips, 
mash them, and strain them through a tannny with the 
meat that has been pounded ; strain your broth, and put 
a little of it at a time mto the tammy to help you to strain 
all of it through. Put your soup-kettle near the fire, but 
do not let it boil. When ready to dish, haye six yolks 
of eggs mixed with half a pint of cream ; strain through a 
sieye, put your soup on the fire, and, as it is coming to 
the boil, put in the eggs and stir well with a wooden spoon ; 
do not let it boil, or it will curdle. 



84. Game Soup a la Rossini. 

{So named from the edihrdtcd Composer, who ivas famous as a e/ourmet.) 

Dress in a braising pan twelye quails ; let them get cold 
in it ; then raise and trim the fillets, which put in the 
tureen with some middling-sized cocks' combs, sheep's 
kidneys, a dozen small mushrooms, and as many trutties 
turned as oliyes : pour upon these a puree of pheasants. 



SOUPS. V23 

85. Scotch Hare Soup. 

Skin the hare, taking care to preserve the blood ; cut the 
hare in pieces, wash it clean, cut off the fleshy parts of the 
back and hind legs; put all the rest in a stew-pan with a 
tablespoonful of butter ; keep the cover on close, and let it 
stew half an hour ; stir it now and then. In another sauce- 
pan put about two ounces of butter, and three tablespoonfuls 
of flour ; brown it nicely. Mix the blood with four quarts 
of cold water, strain it, and, with the rest of the meat, put 
it to the hare which is stewing, and add one carrot, one head 
of celery, and three large onions cut small ; season with 
pepper and salt. Let it boil from two hours to two hours 
and a half, according as the hare may be young or old. Just 
before serving, pick out all the bones, the carrots, and celery. 

I do not think that either the French or the Americans 
are very partial to hare. Among the five thousand recipes 
in Mrs. Ellet's " Practical Housekeeper " (U.S.A.) there are 
not more than three for dressing a hare — roasted, jugged, 
and potted. 



86. English Hare Soup. 

Cut down the hare into nice pieces and stew them with 
four onions, stuck with four cloves, four blades of mace, a bay- 
leaf or two, a faggot of parsley, with two or three sprigs 
of basil, thyme, marjoram, and a head of celer}-. Simmer 
slowly in a little strong stock-broth, and when the juices 
are well drawn out, put more broth, till the whole quantity 
required is in. Simmer for another hour at least, and strain 
the soup. Take the best of the meat from the bones, pound 
it, moistening with a little of the soup. Pound also some 
soaked crumb of bread or the dr}- mealy part of potatoes 
and put this to the soup. Avhich nuist now bo seasoned 



124 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

to your taste with pepper, salt, cayenne, and catsup. Or 
keep the best pieces, if the hare be large, to serve 
whole in the tureen, cut into niouthfuls, and pomid 
and pulp the others, which will make the soup have quite 
enough of consistence. The best pieces to serve are the 
fillets cut off along the backbone, which need not be boiled 
HO iong as the other parts, if they are to be thus served. 



87. Grouse Soup. 

Roast for a quarter of an hour two fine grouse ; then 
take the best parts and lay them aside ; break up the bones 
<and put them with what is left into a pot Avith two quarts 
of good veal (No. 2) or beef stock (Xo. 1) unseasoned. 
Stew gently for three hours, then strain and rub through 
a sieve. Skin the meat laid aside, pound it in a mortar, 
add two tablespoonfuls of hard toasted bread-crumbs ; put 
this paste, made into little balls, to the soup, together Avitli 
XI tablespoonful and a half of salt, a drachm of Xepaul 
pepper, and serve. 



88. Poacher's Soup, or Soup a la Meg Merrilies. 

This savoury and highly relishing stew-soup (our great 
grandmothers would have called it a " cullis ") may be made 
■of anything or everything known by the name of game. 

Take from two to four pounds of the trimmings or coarse 
parts of venison, shin of beef, or shanks or lean scrag of good 
mutton — all fresh. If game is plentiful, then use no meat. 
Break the bones and boil them with celery, a couple of 
carrots and turnips, four onions, a bunch of parsle}^ and a 
quarter of an ounce of peppercorns — the larger proportion 
Jamaica pepper. Strain this stock when it has boiled for 



SOUPS. 125 

three hours. Cut down and skin a blackcock or woodcock^ 
a pheasant, half a hare or a rabbit, a brace of partridges or 
grouse, and season the pieces with mixed spices. These may 
be floured and browned in a frying-pan; but as this is a 
process dictated by the e3'e as much as by the palate, it is 
not really necessary. Put the game to the strained stock 
Avith a dozen of small onions, a couple of heads of celery 
sliced, half a dozen peeled potatoes, and, when it boils,, 
a small white cabbage quartered ; black pepper, allspice, and 
salt to taste. Let the soup simmer till the game is tender,, 
but not overdone ; and that it may not be, the vegetables 
may be put in half an hour before the flesh. 

This soup may bo coloured and flavoured with red Avine 
and two spoonfuls of mushroom catsup, and enriched with 
forcemeat balls. Soups in which catsup is mixed should not 
be salted till that ingredient is added, as catsup contains so 
much salt itself. 



89. Vermicelli Soup. 

A pound and a half of lean veal cut into dice ; a turnip^ 
a faggot of vegetables, and about two ounces of ham ; a 
head of celery, an onion stuck with cloves, a few white 
peppercorns, a blade of mace, and a quarter of a pound of 
butter ; let the whole sweat over a brisk stove ; then 
thicken with three spoonfuls of semolina flour diluted 
with two quarts of white broth. This must be done by 
degrees, so that the soup be not lumpy. Add a handful of 
mushroom-trimmings ; as soon as it boils, draw it to the 
corner of the fire, that the scum and fat may rise, Avhich 
carefully remove. Strain this through a tammy on the 
vermicelli. On serving, you may throw in a few chervil 
leaves well blanched and very green, but I prefer that this 
soup should be onl}- so much broth or white stock, as clear 
as sherry and Avell-boiled vermicelli. 



123 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

90. Sweet Milk Soup. 

(^'i favourite German Dish, and vcrtj nice for Children.') 

Three pints of milk, the yolks of two eggs, a table- 
spoonful of semolina flour, a couple of peach leaves or 
some lemon-peel, a little salt, and sugar to taste. Keep 
these stirred over the tire till on the point of boiling over. 
Have the whites of the eggs whisked to a stiff snow, with 
a little sugar. When the soup is poured into the tureen, 
take dessertspoonfuls of the snow, sprinkle powdered cin- 
namon over, throw them into the soup, and serve directly. 



91. Macaroni Soup. 

Boil four ounces of the macaroni till three-fourths cooked. 
Have prepared strong gravy soup ; take care that the 
macaroni does not get into lumps. Boil up. Serve rasped 
Parmesan in a glass dish or on a plate. Many streAv it on the 
soup. This may be made a sort of white soup by thickening 
it with white sauce, and adding hot cream gradually when 
to be served, giving it first a boil up. 

There are at least half a dozen soups made from dif- 
ferent kinds of "Italian paste;" and the rules Avhich I have 
given for macaroni soup Avill apply to them all. Let me hint 
that there will be no harm in mixing the grated Parmesan 
Avith a little Gruvere, or even double Gloucester. 



92. Spaghetti. 

Boil this small macaroni just to the point; drain ; mix 
with butter, grated Parmesan, pepper, and salt, and moisten 
with Liebig's Extract or any kind of gravy you like to use. 
Please remember this : — All forms of macaroni and risotto 



SOUPS, 127 

must be served very hot, and must be eaten directly they 
are ready. 



93. Nouille Soup. 

" Nouilles " — any EngHsh cook can pronounce the name — 
are simply a paste of any kind of very fine flour " bound " 
with yolks of eggs ; the ingredients most carefully incor- 
porated and rolled out thin and flat on a pieboard. The paste 
is then cut into ribands or any other attractive shapes, or 
folded up, with mincemeat or minced herbs between, for 
boiling or stewing purposes. For nouille soup roll a sheet 
of paste out very thin, Avhich cut in strips about a sixth 
of an inch broad, and these cut in pieces three-fourths of 
an inch long ; 3'ou may fold your paste, lightly dusted with 
flour, which will enable you to cut several at a time ; blanch 
them in boiling water, after which drain and cool them ; 
put them into a stew-pan with a ladleful of broth, to stew on 
a slow fire twenty minutes ; strain, and add as much broth 
as may be wanted. Grated Parmesan should be handed 
round. 



94. nice Soup. 

"Wash and blanch three ounces of Carolina rice ; stew 
it in some broth with two ounces of fresh butter and a 
pinch of pepper, but leave it firm ; then mix with it two 
ounces of Parmesan cheese grated, and three yolks of 
eggs ; when cold, form it into balls as large as filberts ; ten 
minutes before serving, roll these in a saute-plate containing 
two eggs well beaten up ; drain them, and put one by one 
into a stew-pan of clean hot lard to give them a fine colour ; 
drain them on a napkin ; put them in a tureen containing 



128 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

the broth prepared and thickened with an " aUiance " of eggs 
and Parmesan. 



95. Bread Soup. 

Cut up the bread (stale) in pieces ; put it into cold 
water, and let it come to the boil, with some salt and a little 
butter. Boil slowly for half an hour. At the moment of 
serving, j^ut three yolks of eggs into the tureen with two 
ounces of fresh butter, more or less, according to the 
quantity of soup. Pour in the bread on the eggs, stirring- 
all the time. 



96. Sago Soup with Turnips- 

Prepare a puree of turnips, then put into it six ounces of 
sago, picked and washed, stirring it that it may not be 
lumpy ; boil for nearly an hour. Skim perfectly and serve. 

Sago, tapioca, and Italian paste may equally be added 
to the purees of lentils, of red or white haricots, of roots, 
turnips, or dried peas, giving the soups their names, as, for 
example : " Potage de Tapioca a la Creci," etc. If a quarter 
of a pound of the crumb of a French roll, or two spoonfuls 
of flour, be mixed into a thin paste with some cold stock 
and added to the purees, they wiU acquire a remarkable 
smoothness. 



97. Scotch Barley Broth with Boiled Mutton or Beef. 

To from three to six pounds of beef or mutton, according 
to the quantity of broth wanted, put cold water in the pro- 
]portion of a quart to a pound ; a quarter of a pound of Scotch 
barley, more or less, as may suit the meat and the water; 
and a spoonful of salt. To this add a large cupful of soaked 



SOUFS. 120 

white peas, or split grey peas. Skim very carefully as long as 
any scum rises ; tlien draw aside the pot, and let the broth 
boil slowly for an hour ; after which time add to it two young 
carrots and turnips cut into dice, and two or three onions 
sliced. A quarter of an hour before the broth is ready, add a 
little parsley picked and chopped ; or the bottom part of three 
leeks may be used instead of onions, and a head of celery 
sliced, instead of the parsley seasoning; but celery requires 
longer boiling. 

If there is danger of the meat being overdone before the 
broth is properly completed, it may be taken wp, covered 
for a half-hour, and returned into the pot to heat through 
before it is dished. Garnish with the carrots and turnips 
boiled in the broth ; or with nasturtiums heated in melted 
butter or in a little clear broth. Serve the broth in a tureen, 
removing any film of fat that may gather upon the surface. 



98. Chestnut Nesselrode Soup. 

The broth being prepared as usual, take fifty chestnuts, 
boil them for a few minutes in salt and water, and as soon 
as the under-skin quits Avith the pressure of the finger, skin 
them ; simmer them gently with some broth, a little butter, 
and a pinch of sugar; after boiling two hours, run them 
down to a glaze, and put them into the tureen with crusts 
dried as usual. Add the broth, in which you have boiled an 
onion cut into dice and previously fried of a light colour 
in fresh butter. Add blanched parsley and a little pepper. 

It is necessary to add a little sugar to soups of roots 
and vegetables, to mollify their sharpness, and to render 
them more agreeable. To such soups as this many others 
may be added, according to fiincy, such as those of leeks, 
radishes, endive, artichoke bottoms, etc. ; but they are very 
J 



130 THE TEOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

rarely served, and wlien asked for, their flavour is given 
by boiling tliem gently in some broth, and jDouring it 
afterwards into the tureen, garnished with crusts as usual. 



99. Cocoa-nut Soup. 

Scrape or grate the inside of a couple of ripe cocoa-nuts 
very fine, place it in a saucepan, adding to it a couple of 
quarts of clear white stock, with a blade of inace ; set it to 
simmer gently for half an hour, and then strain it through 
a fine sieve ; have ready beaten the yolks of four eggs, 
with a little stock and sufficient arrowroot or ground rice 
to thicken the soup ; mix this into a smooth batter, 
Adding it by degrees to the soup, and let simmer gently, 
stirring it carefully till it is done. It should not be allowed 
to boil, or it may curdle. Half a pint of cream may be 
used instead of eggs. 



100. Macaroni and Cheese Soup. 

Boil macaroni in plenty of salted water until quite soft. 
Drain and cut it into smaller lengths, and throw it into 
good soup. To give additional richness, have the yolks of 
two or three eggs in the tureen, and stir them as the boil- 
ing soup is poured in. Hand grated cheese at table. 



101. Cheese Soup a la Biberon. 

Peel and slice six onions, cut half a pound of lean haiii 
in slices, and two ounces of butter ; put them into a stew- 
pan over the fire, and rub with a spoon till the onions 
become a little brown ; add half a pound of bread-crumbs. 



sours. 131 

and tliree pints of good broth, a little caj^enne pepper, and 
a blade of mace ; let this boil for half an hour, then add 
a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan cheese, and pass 
the soup through a tammy, put it into a clean soup pot, 
make the soup hot without boiling, and thicken it Avith the 
yolks of six eggs, mixed with a little broth, putting this in 
at the last moment. This is a good winter soup. 

Unless you are giving a dinner-party you need not put " a 
la Biberon " on your bill of fare. The soup, I should say, 
derived its name from some cook or cook's patron, since the 
word " biberon " means merely a feeding-bottle. 



102. German Cheese Soup. 

Take about half a pound of bread-crumbs, sifted through 
a colander, and a quarter of a pound of grated Swiss or 
Parmesan cheese ; simmer them together in a stew-pan with 
some vegetable broth until the bread and cheese are well 
stewed. Mix three or four yolks of eggs in a saucepan with 
as many spoonfuls of broth, stir it over a slow fire or stove 
till well mixed, without boiling ; when the soup is taken 
off' the fire, stir in the egg, and serve it immediately 
with toasted bread on a dish, in small squares. Add pepper 
and salt, or any other seasoning, according to taste. 

Jules Gouife, in his " Livre des Soupes," seems to be 
under the impression, as I have said in my " chat " about 
Cheese, that we English have only one soup, and for this he 
gives a recipe — " Soupe au Fromage." With amused amaze- 
ment I read that a quarter of a pint of old ale is to be added 
before the soup is dished up ; that is, its consistency was to 
be very thick, and that it is to be served on squares of soft 
toast and eaten with mustard. The poor dear man had 
miistaken our " Welsh rarebit " for a soup ! As a matter of 
fact, I claim, as British soups, kale brose, cock-a-leekie, 
J 2 



132 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK 

mutton broth, ox-tail and giblet, S2:>lit pea, mulligatawny 
(Anglo-Indian), and grouse. 



103. Puchero. 

„ Puchero is the Spanish analogue for that French j^'-^i- 
au-feii which was once so unjustly maligned in the " English 
Wives " correspondence in a London daily newspaper. 

Two pounds of lean beef placed in the stock-pot with 
a pig's ear, the giblets of a fowl — if 3"ou can eat giblets ; 
I cannot — six ounces of blanched ham or salt pork, and 
three handfuls of well-soaked garhanzos, or chick-peas. 
Moisten your meat with a sufficiency of water ; put your pot 
on the fire ; skim carefully, and when it comes to boiling 
point set it on the hob. Let it simmer for two hours ; then 
add two leeks, a bunch of chervil, a little Avild mint, and a 
large carrot or a head of cabbage-lettuce. A large slice of 
pumjikin, freed from the peel and seed, will be also very 
succulent in the soup. At the expiration of another hour, 
add little pork sausages, called by the Spaniards chorizos, 
and continue to simmer. Before serving, pass the soup 
through a sieve into a stew-pan, and then pour it into a 
tureen. Take the leeks and lettuces, hoAvever, from the sieve, 
and o;arnish the meat with them, together with some slices 
of fried toast. The soup is served in the tureen, and the 
meat, Avhich now corresponds with the French houilli, on 
a dish separately. 

" Puchero," radically, is the pot in which the beef soup 
is concocted, and preferably the pot should be an earthen 
one. 



104. Mexican Fucliero. 

This docs not differ much from the Spanish dainty, 
save in the circumstance that for the g<irh<iu:os, or chick- 



SOUPS. 13;J 



peas, are substituted frijoles, or kidney-beans, with shining 
black skins ; and, again, the Mexicans, who are very fond 
of highly spiced dishes, are accustomed to stew whole 
chillies in the puchero. 



105. Calabriau Soup. 

Chop up an onion ; fry to a golden colour in a stew-pan; 
add four ounces of lean raw ham, grated ; a bunch of parsley 
stuck with cloves and peppercorns ; two minutes afterwards, 
add six tomatoes sliced, and freed from the skins and pips. 
As soon as the tomatoes have lost their moisture in the 
pan, pour over a little melted glaze and some reduced brown 
sauce ; boil for a few minutes, and pass all through a sieve. 
Have ready a pound and a half of Naples macaroni, cooked 
as directed above ; pour it into the pan and mix with six 
ounces of butter ; keep rolling the pan so that the butter 
and the macaroni shall get well mingled ; finish with a 
pinch of pepper, dress it in a deep dish or a tureen by 
laj'ers, sprinkling each layer Avith grated cheese, and pour 
over it a little of the sauce previously prepared ; more sauce 
and more Parmesan must crown the whole ; and you may 
serve separately a tureen of well-clarified broth. The maca- 
roni without the broth will be found quite as tasty. 

A most enjoyable summer soup, and a cheap one. 



106. German Soup. 

Take veal-stuffing and make it into small circular puddings; 
boil them in water, and drain them on a sieve ; then cut the 
hearts of two cabbages fine, and blanch them in salt and 
water for ten minutes; squeeze the water from them, and 
put them into a stew-pan with a piece of butter, a little salt 



134 TEE TEOROUGE GOOD COOK. 

and sugar, and sinnner the cabbages for an hour over a 
sloAv fire ; then put as much broth as may be required to 
make the mixture of a good consistence ; let it boil, skim 
off the fat, and rub it through a tammy ; then boil up the 
soup, and put into it the small puddings. This may be 
highl}'- seasoned. 



107. Flemish Soup. 

Slice six onions, cut six heads of celery into small pieces, 
and shce about twelve potatoes. Put about a quarter of a 
pound of butter with two ounces of ham into a stewpan, 
with a little Avhite stock ; set it to stew sloAvly for half an 
hour ; then fill up with broth ; let it boil on gently half 
an hour more, or until the potatoes are dissolved ; then rub it 
through a tammy with the crumb of half a French roll 
soaked in the broth, and add half a pint of cream that 
has been boiled, and a mixture of four yolks of eggs. "Work a 
little fresh butter in the soup previous to serving. 



108. Austrian Soup. 

Cut a fat chicken in pieces ; fry in butter with sweet 
herbs; boil in clear broth, and then roll in crumbs of 
bread and Parmesan cheese ; colour with the salamander ; 
lay thin slices of bread with grated cheese on them ; then a 
layer of cabbages with more slices of bread ; add the broth, 
and stew till it catches a little at bottom ; grate on a little 
more cheese, brown it ; add a little more broth, and serve 
the pieces of chicken on the top. 



SOUPS. 135 

109. Minestra Soup (Italian). 

Cut up all together into tine pieces two carrots, half 
a turnip, two leeks, a quarter of a cabbage, half an onion, 
and a stalk of celery, and steam them in about two ounces 
of butter for about ten minutes in a covered saucepan ; 
moisten with three pints of white broth; season with half 
a teaspoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper, and add 
one tablespoonful of raw rice. Let it simmer until half- 
cooked, then throv,' in one ounce of pieces of macaroni and 
half a tomato. Boil aofain for ten minutes, and serve with 
two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese separately. 



110. Minestrone. 

[Milan Fashion.) 

Chop six or eight ounces of bacon, put it into a stew-pan 
with a piece of raw ham, a savoy cabbage shredded large, and 
two or three handfuls of fresh haricot beans, either white or 
green; moisten all these vegetables with three quarts of 
broth, and place the stew-pan on a brisk fire. After it has 
boiled ten minutes, add to the liquid four tablespoonfuls of 
tender celery roots cut into small dice, the same of cabbage, 
and again the same of haricot beans, cut in pieces. Eight 
or ten minutes after, add two handfuls of fresh broad beans, 
the same of green peas and asparagus heads, a chopped 
tomato, twelve or fourteen ounces of Piedmont rice (not 
washed), as well as two or three smoked Milan sausages. 
Continue boiling until the rice be done : twelve or fourteen 
minutes will be lonof enough. At the last moment, add to 
the soup a handful of grated Parmesan ; then take out the 
ham and sausages ; pour the broth and vegetables into the 
soup tureen ; cut the sausages and put them into the soup, 
which serve. 



136 THE THOEOUGH GOOD COOK. 

The Milanese, be it remarked, are undoubtedly the best 
cooks in Italy. 



111. German Wine Soup. 

-Put some water, some su^ar, and some cinnamon-bark 
into a saucepan. Boil, and add wine equal in quantity to 
the water. As soon as the soup gets very hot, but not 
boiling, pour it into the tureen on some fried bread or 
some biscuits. 



112. Currant Juice Soup for Children. 

Put into a saucepan as much water as you require 
soup. "When the water boils, throw in some vermicelli 
and a little salt. Mix a small quantity of potato flour in 
some cold water ; when quite smooth, pour it into the sauce- 
pan, stirring sloAvly. As soon as the vermicelli is cooked, 
add the currant-juice and the necessary amount of sugar. 



113. A Simple Soup with Eggs. 

This extremely primitive soup is made of garlic fried 
in olive oil or beef-drijjping, and moistened with beef- 
stock, or, on fast days, simply with water. Just before 
serving, as many eggs as there are guests are mingled raw 
with the soup, which is then boiled up, seasoned with pepper 
and salt, and served with si^Dpets of toasted bread. Or, if 
the guests are exceptionally fond of garlic, put in large 
slices of bread, to be soaked in the soup, which, it will be 
clear to culinary experts, bears a certain resemblance to 
the fundamental seasoning of the Provenc^'al Bouillabaisse. 



SOUPS. 137 

114. Cold Soup. 

Allow to bLanch, separately, in a pan, fonr handfiils of 
spinach and two handftils of sorrel ; drain and pass through 
a sieve, mix the vegetables and pla(;e in a pan, diluting with 
a quart of very well clarified veal or chicken stock. The 
Russians use as stock " kvas," a beverage made of partially 
fermented r3'e or barley ; but this I do not think English 
people would like any more than they do the German " beer- 
soup." Put your stock and vegetables into a large pan ; 
cut into thin slices some cooked and cold salmon, or any 
other fish that comes handy. Prepare and cut into dice a 
small cucumber, slightly salted ; also pare a few crayfish ; add 
a small quantity of grated horseradish, and keep your pan on 
the ice till it is time to serve. Then mix in the soup some 
pieces of Wenham Lake ice. 

If you will only take care to have your stock so thoroughly 
clarified as to be altogether free from fat, you will find this 
cold soup in summer most refreshing and most palatable. 
Our chief culinary sin is that we do not suit our dishes to 
our seasons. 



115. A Pepper-Pot. 

This is now understood in England to be a sort of clear 
soup — a highly seasoned Saturday's dinner dish, composed of 
all sorts of shreds and patches. It ought properly, if fine 
cookery is attempted, to be an -'olio," composed of a due 
admixture of meat, fish, fowl, vegetables, and roots. 

For so-called West Indian Pe23per-Pot, to three quarts of 
water put two pounds of whatever vegetables are plentiful (a 
good proportion being onions), and two pounds of mutton 
scrag, cut into three or four pieces ; or a fowl, or veal, or a 
piece of lean bacon ; and a little rice. Skim it, and, when 
nearly finished, add the meat of a lobster or crab, cut in bits, 



133 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

or the soft part of a few oysters or hard-boiled yolks of eggs. 
Take off all tlie fat that rises, and season highly with jDej^per 
and cayenne. Serve in a deep dish. 

I happen to be on my mother's side of West Indian 
parentage ; and I must fain say something of the genuine 
tropical dish. The fundamental ingredient in real West 
Indian Pepper-Pot is casaripe, the inspissated juice of the 
bitter cassava, or manioc. " Insj^issated " means thickening 
a liquid by boiling, or by evaporation. All kinds of 
vegetables and meats may be put into pepper-pot (which 
is best made in an earthen pipkin); and through its very 
high seasoning with casaripe and other condiments, it may 
in the tropics (with occasional replenishment) be kept 
" going " for months. For a very old form of this dainty 
(" Mannei's and Customs in the West India Islands," 1888) 
I find this recipe : " A small piece of pork or beef, sliced ; a 
fowl dissected ; ochras, yams, plantains, ' calilvo,' and plent}^ 
of ' fire-balls ' or red pepper." (See under Entremets, p. 319.) 



116. Sharp Soup. 

Cut up some mutton into pieces the size of small 
wahiuts ; wash and put them in a stew-pan, with sufticient 
salt, and as much water as the quantity of soup required; 
put the pan on the fire. When boiling, skim it well, and 
let it simmer until the pieces of meat are tender, and skim 
off the fat ; then put in a basin sufficient flour, which mix 
with water to form a smooth batter, but not too thick, 
and add to it the broth by degrees, stirring at the same 
time, so as to prevent it from getting lumpy ; let it simmer 
till the smell of flour has dispersed, and take it off. 
Then beat up the yolks of three eggs in a small saucepan 
with sufficient wine-vinegar or lemon-juice, set it on a small 
charcoal fire, and keep it stirring with a wooden spoon 



SOUPS. 139 

until a little thick; take it off, and add it gradually to 
the soup, stirring it quickly at the same time, to prevent 
the eggs from curdling; then pour it in a tureen, sprinkle 
a little pepper and cinnamon over, and serve. 



117. "Crusts" for Thick Soups. 

Cut up some bread-crumb into small dice. Melt and 
clarify two ounces of butter. Fry the dice in the 
butter till of a nice light brown. If you wish to garnish 
spinach or an entree of game, cut a slice of bread a quarter 
of an inch thick ; divide it in two, lengthwise. Cut away the 
crust, then cut the crumb in zig-zag pieces either in cubes 
or lozenges, and fry in butter till of a nice brown colour. 



140 



SECTION II.— FISH. 



1. Forcemeat for Stews of Fisli, etc. 

Beat the flesh and soft parts of a boiled lobster in a 
"inortar, with a boned anchovy, the yolks of three eggs hard- 
boiled, and a head of boiled celery chopped. Put to this a 
handful of bread-crumbs, cayenne, mace, a spoonful of mush- 
room catsup, a quarter-pound of melted butter, a large spoon- 
ful of oyster liquor, or some oyster pickle, and two or more 
^ggs well beaten, to cement the composition. Mix it well, 
and form into small egg-shaped balls, which fry, or brow^n in 
a Dutch oven. Or the fish that makes the stock for soups 
may be pounded for forcemeat. 



2. Fish Forcemeat, or Quenelles. 

Take dressed or undressed fish of an}" sort, chop it fine, 
and beat it well in a mortar with the yolks of some hard- 
boiled eggs ; then add an equal quantity of bread-crumbs 
soaked in hot milk and well drained, Avith as much fresh 
butter as forcemeat. Next, a little salt, fji-ated nutmejjr, the 
yolks of three or four eggs, one by one, and a little chopped 
parsley. Beat the whites of the eggs to snow, taking one 
white less than you have yolks. This forcemeat may be 
used to stuff anything you please, or to make quenelles 
for soup. Take a teaspoon, or a dessertspoon, according to 
the size you wish the balls to be, fill this with forcemeat, 
shape it with a knife dij^ped in warm water, so that the upper 
side has the same form as that in the spoon ; take it out with 
another spoon dipped in water, and put it on a paper well 



FISH. 141 

buttered. When you have made them all, slip the paper 
gently mto the saucepan of soup ; as soon as they are 
detached, withdraw the paper ; they must have plenty of 
room to swim in. If you have no soup, boil them in water, 
with a little piece of butter and salt, for ten minutes over 
a gentle fire. They may be used to garnish dishes, or you 
may roll them in flour or bread-crumbs and fry them ; but 
flour injures their delicacy. 



3. To Fry Parsley, Herbs, Bread-crumbs, etc. 

Fill the frying-pan with very hot dripping or lard. 
Have young parsley nicely picked, washed, drained, and 
then rubbed lightly between the folds of a cloth to dr}^ 
It must be fried quickly, to get crisp. The moment it is done, 
lift it with a slice, and place it before the fire on a sieve 
reversed, to drain and become more crisp ; or it may be 
crisped in a Dutch oven before the fire. This is used for 
garnishing not only fish, but also lamb chops, liver, and 
anything to which the flavour of parsley is suitable. Many 
things are served on fried parsley. 

Bread-crumbs are fried and drained in the same manner,, 
taking care that the fat is perfectly clear, and the bread not 
burned. Sippets may be cut in the form of stars, the Maltese 
cross, triangles, diamonds, etc. etc., and nicely fried and 
drained before the fire to serve for garnishing. Fried bread 
is a most useful article for garnishing, as it never fails to 
be eaten with the dish it is employed to ornament. 



4. To Collar Salmon. 

Split, scale, and bone as much of the fish as will make 
a handsome collar of about six inches diameter. Season it 



142 THE THOBOUGn GOOD COOK 

highly with beaten mace, cloves, pepper and salt, and having 
rolled it firmly up and bandaged it, bake it with vinegar 
and butter ; or simmer it in vinegar and water. Serve with 
melted butter and anchov}^ sauce. The liquor in which the 
collar was boiled or baked may be boiled up with salt, 
vinegar, and a few bay-leaves, and poured over the fish to 
preserve it. 



5. To Roll Salmon. 

Take a side of salmon, split, the bone taken out and 
scalded. Strew over the inside some pepper, salt, nutmeg, 
mace, a few chopped oysters, parsley, and crumbs of bread. 
KoU it up tight, put it into a deep pot, and bake it in a 
quick oven. Make the common fish sauce, and pour over it. 



6. Salmon Cutlets. 

French cooks dress slices of fresh salmon as cutlets " in 
curl paper," by seasoning them with mixed S2)ices, dipped in 
salad oil, and broiling them. 



7. Cutlets of Salmon a la Maitre d'Hotel. 

Cut some slices of salmon into the shape of chops. Put 
them into a saute-pan with some clarified dripping or butter, 
pepper, and salt, and " toss " them, when dinner-time is come, 
over an equal fire. Drain the butter well, and dish the 
slices of salmon in a pyramid. 

For salmon you must not use any cream, as this fish 
is already heavy for the stomach. Put into a stew-pan 
three spoonfuls of brown sauce Avell reduced ; add to it a 



FISH. 143 



thickening of one egg, and refine "witli a quarter of a pound 
of butter, some saltj a little cayenne, the juice of half a 
lemon, and some parsley chopped very line ; Avork the sauce 
very fine, and use as wanted. 



8. To Fot Salmon. 

Split, scale, and clean by wiping, for water must not 
touch it. Rub with salt ; drain off the moisture, and season 
the salmon with pounded mace, cloves, and black j^epper. 
Cut it into shapely pieces; lay them in a pan, and cover 
them with oiled butter. Bake them ; drain off the fat, and 
put them into potting cans, which must then be covered 
with claritied butter. 



9. Caveach Salmon. 

Boil, in two quarts of vinegar, three heads of shallots, half 
an ounce of black pepper, three cloves, two blades of mace, 
and a little salt. Cut the fish in slices, and fry these of a 
light brown colour in fine oil, or clarified dripping : put them, 
when cold, into a pan ; pour over them the vinegar and 
spices, and put on the top eight or ten spoonfuls of oil. 



10. Salmon a la Genevoise. 

Put into a stCAV-pan a good slice of salmon, with mush- 
rooms, shallots, and parsley chopped fine, salt, and spice ; 
add a little red wine and some broth. When stewed put into 
another stew-pan a piece of butter, rolled in two spoonfuls 
of flour, which moisten with the liquor of the salmon, and 



lU THE THOEOUGE GOOD COOK. 

let it boil till reduced ; pour it over the fish, and serve. A 
little anchovy butter will improve this sauce. 



11. Slices of Crimped Salmon Broiled, with Caper Sauce. 

Marinade or soak your slices of salmon in a little olive 
oil, with salt and pepper. Three-quarters of an hour before 
you send up, broil them on a very slow fire, on both sides. 
When they are done, take off" the skins and drain them on 
a clean towel to draw out all the oil. Dish, and cover 
with the caper sauce. Let it be understood that your 
gridiron must be put on a slope, with a false bottom under 
the fore-feet to receive the oil, for if this should fall into 
the fire, the smoke would spoil the fish, besides filling the 
kitchen with stench. 



12. Crimped Salmon au Naturel. 

Have two quarts of water boiling in a stew-pan, with six 
ounces of salt, in which place two slices of crimped salmon ; 
if more than two are wanted, a proportionate addition must 
be made to the water. Boil quickly for eighteen minutes ; 
try the bone in the middle, and if it leaves easily, your fish is 
done ; don't leave it soddening in the water after it is done, 
or it will lose its aroma ; but if you are not quite ready to 
dish it up, cover it with a wet unstarched napkin and stand 
it in 3'our hot-closet. Dish it up prettily garnished with 
fresh parsley; but if I were you, I would dish it up neither 
on a starched napkin nor on paper. I don't like starch 
in a dissolved or sticky form. The fish looks quite as well 
on a strainer. You can serve either lobster or shrimp sauce 
with it. 

I have given one of the simplest recipes for dressing this 



FISH. Uh- 

splendid fish, because, as a rule, you will begin to eat salmon 
about the end of April, and your taste will then be innocent 
enough to enjoy it in its most unadorned form. But if you 
dine out, or give dinners frequently during the season, your 
palate will become more and more cloyed, until about the 
beginning of July you will get satiated with and sick of 
salmon altosfether. 



13. Salmon au Bleu. 

Put some slices of salmon in a fish-kettle with half a 
pint of j)ort wine, carrots cut m slices, onions also sliced, 
four cloves, a couple of bay-leaves, a handful of parsley, a 
few sprigs of thyme, salt, and jDepper ; let it boil very gently ; 
it is done when the flesh will easily leave the bone. It 
must be covered by the liquor in which it is boiled. If 
served as an entree, take off the skin when the fish is done, 
and mask it with a good butter sauce, in which put capers, 
sliced gherkins, and a little anchovy butter. 



14. Salmon Fritters. 

Cut some cold boiled salmon ; pound some boiled 
potatoes, moistened with cream, and the yolk of an Q^g 
beaten ; mix all together and make it into small fritters, 
and fry these of a light brown in fresh lard, or beef-dripping ; 
serve them with hard-boiled eggs, cut in quarters. For 
sauce, melt two ounces of butter, with a little cream and 
flour mixed, and add, when it is hot, a dessertspoonful of 
soy, and two of mushroom catsup. 



K 



146 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

15. Baked Salmon. 

Clean, and cut the fish mto shoes; put it in a dish, 
and make the following sauce : — Melt an ounce of butter, 
kneaded in flour, in a pint and half of gravy, with two 
glasses of port wine, two tablespoonfuls of catsup, two an- 
chovies, and a little cayenne. When the anchovies are dis- 
solved, strain and pour the sauce o^'er the fish, tie a sheet 
of buttered paper over the dish, and bake in an oven. 
Trout answer well dressed in this way. 



16. Roast Salmon. 

Get a sufficient quantity of salmon in one piece, remove 
the bones, and cut it in pieces the size of an egg ; sprinkle 
sufficient salt and pepper over, Avith a handful or two of 
j)arsley chopped fine, and let them remain for about an 
hour, then pass them on skewers with a bay-leaf between 
each piece, put them before a moderate fire, and turn until 
they are nicely browned ; dish up tastefully, with some 
parsley and one or two lemons cut in quarters round them, 
and serve hot. Other fish may be cooked in the same way. 



17. Salmon, Matelote Sauce. 

Make a marinade, in which stew the salmon. AVhen it is 
done, pick off the scales carefully. Pour the marinade over 
the salmon to keep it hot. Then make a sauce in the 
following manner:— Put a good bit of butter and two 
spoonfuls of flour in a stew-pan, and make a brown sauce. 
When it begins to colour, throw four or six onions into your 
sauce, and let them melt ; keep stirring Avith a av ooden spoon. 
Then moisten with a pint of red wine ; add a few spoonfuls 



FISH. 147 

of the marinade in Avhicli you have stewed the sahnon, some 
trimmings of mushrooms, a bunch of parsley and green 
onions well seasoned, and a small piece of glaze ; season the 
whole, and put a little sugar to correct the acidity of the 
wine ; skim the grease, and keep the sauce thick. In case it 
should not be thick enough to cover the fish, add a small bit 
of butter kneaded with flour, a quarter of a pound of fresh 
butter, some essence of anchovies, the juice of a lemon, and 
some salt and pepper. Drain your iish, and cover it with the 
sauce, after having strained it through a tammy. 



18. Salmon with Sweet Herbs. 

Mix a piece of butter with some chopped parsley, shallots, 
sweet herbs, nuishrooms, pepper and salt. Put some of this 
in the bottom of the dish you intend to send to table ; then 
some thin slices of salmon upon it, and the remainder of the 
butter and herbs upon the salmon. Strew it over with bread- 
crumbs, then baste it with butter and bake it in the oven. 
When it is done, drain the fat from it, and serve it up 
with a clear relishinof sauce. 



19. Salmon a la Tartare. 

Marinade and broil the salmon ; mix six yolks of eggs 
in a round-bottomed basin, with half a tablespoonful of 
made mustard and a little salt: place it on ice, and work 
in gradually about a ]3int of the finest olive oil ; this 
would serve for two or three slices ; add by degrees a table- 
spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and one of Chili vinegar, 
with cayenne pepper and lemon-juice. This sauce should be 
very sharp, but, above all, do not let it be thin, as it must be 
worked on the ice till it is sufficiently stiff to bear the weight 
K 2 



148 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

of the salmon ; cover the dish about half an inch thick 
with the sauce, within half an inch of the edge all round ; 
glaze the salmon as you take it from the gridiron, place it 
on the sauce, and serve. Bear in mind that the dish must 
be kept cold. 



20. Salmon a la Braise. 

Slit a large eel oj^en, take out the bone and remove the 
meat from it. Chop the meat fine with tAvo anchovies, some 
lemon-peel cut fine, a little pepper and grated nutmeg, with 
some parsley and thyme cut small, and the yolk of an egg 
boiled hard. Mix them all together, and roll them up in a 
piece of butter. Then take a large jiiece of fine salmon, or a 
salmon trout, and put this forcemeat into the belly of the 
fish. Sew it up, and lay it in an oval stew-pan that will just 
hold it. Next put half a j)ound of fresh butter into a stew- 
pan, and when it is melted shake in a little flour. Stir it 
till it is a little brown, and put to it a pint of fish broth 
and a pint of Madeira. Season with pepper, salt, mace, 
and cloves, and put in an onion and a bunch of sweet herbs. 
Stir all together and put it to the fish ; cover it very close, 
and let it stew. When the fish is almost done, put in some 
fresh and pickled mushrooms, truffles, or morels, cut in pieces, 
and let them stew till the flsh is quite done. Take up 
the salmon carefully, lay it in a dish, and put the sauce 
over it. 



21. Salmon Souchet. 

Scale and wash the fish in cold water Avith a little salt, 
then cut it in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, 
place them in a saucepan and cover with good fish stock. 
Put to them some sliced onions and a bunch of herbs, and 



FISH. Ud 

simmer gently for eight or ten minutes. Strain the Hquor, 
and boil it down to half the quantity ; then clarify it, and 
add aspic, also a little carrot and turnip, cut as if for Julienne 
soup (p. 80). Blanch them till tender, and mask the fillets 
with them. Then sprinkle with chervil and tarragon, and 
dish on a border of aspic jelly. 

The best salmon SDUchet in the Avorld is served at the 
Ship Hotel, Greenwich. 



22. Salmon Pudding. 

Take a pound and a half of salmon, pound and pass 
through a sieve. Have ready mixed some bread-crumbs, two 
ounces of butter, three eggs ; add this to the pounded fish ; 
also half a pint of cream; season, and place in a buttered 
mould. Steam for twenty minutes, turn out, and serve with 
a good sauce, and garnish with prawns. 



23. Fillets of Turbot a la Creme. 

This is a splendid entree of desserte. When your turbot is 
returned from table, immediately take up the fillets and skin 
them ; you must do this while they are hot, as it Avill occasion 
a great waste to trim them when cold. The next day you 
must scollop your fillets as equally as possible. Have a 
vvdiite cream quite hot ; put the fillets into it, keep them 
hot, and in due time send them up in a dish garnished with 
fi bordering of puff paste, or in a vol-au-vent. 

The cream sauce may be made in two different ways: 
First, if you have Bechamel in the larder, put into a stew-pan 
three spoonfuls of it, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, 
two spoonfuls of very good cream, some salt and a little 
Nepaul pepper ; mix the whole well, and put either the sauce 



150 THE THOBOUGE GOOD COOK. 

over the iisli or the fish into the sauce, if it is for a vol- 
aii-vent. If you have no Bechamel, put into a stew-pan a 
tablespoonful of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, two 
or three spoonfuls of cream, a little pepper, and a small 
bit of glaze. Do not let this sauce l>oil — only heat it till 
it is thick. 



24. Gratin of Fillets of Turbot. 

Cut a few slices of bread, one inch broad and a quarter 
of an inch thick. Dip them into an omelette of a single 
egg. Stick them on the border of a dish, Avhich lay on 
the corner of a little stove. Turn the dish when you 
have completed the circle, put a spoonful or two of 
smooth brown sauce, and let it "gratin" in the centre of 
the dish. Next take more of the same sauce, to which 
you add a quarter of a jDound of butter, and mix this on 
the stove without boiling. Keep this sauce thick ; pour 
into it a little thick cream ; season it Avell ; put your 
scollops into the sauce, and the whole into the dish in 
Avhich you have " gratined " the sauce. Now level with 
your knife, and strew crumbs of bread over the scollops 
equally ; heat a bored ladle, jxit a lump of butter into it, 
and baste the scollops with it ; give them another coat 
of crumbs of bread, baste them a^-ain, and let them o-et a 
good colour with the salamander. When the "gratin" 
has got a good colour, take off the slices of bread that 
you had previously stuck round the dish, to make room for 
others that have been fried in butter of a fine colour. If you 
have a deep dish, the first border will not be wanted : only 
the second, which makes the dish look better. If you trim 
and fry your bread nicely, it makes a handsome entree. 



FISIL 151 

25. To Dress a Turbot with Capers. 

Having washed and dried a small turbot well, put into a 
stew-pan some thyme, parsley, sweet herbs, and an onion 
sliced. Then lay the turbot in a stew-pan, which should 
be just large enough to hold it, and strew over the fish the 
same herbs that are under it, with some chives and sweet 
basil. Then pour in an equal quantity of white wine and 
white-Avine vinegar, till the fish is covered. Strew in a little 
bay-salt with some Avhole pepper, and set the stew-pan over 
a gentle stove, increasing the heat by degrees till the iish is 
done. Then take it off' the fire, but do not take out the 
turbot. Set a saucepan on the fire with a pound of butter, 
two anchovies split, boned, and washed, two tablespoonfuls 
of capers cut small, some whole chives, pepper, salt, grated 
nutmeg, a little flour, a spoonful of vinegar, and a small 
quantity of water; keep shaking the saucepan round for 
some time. Having then put on the turbot to make it hot, 
place it in a dish and pour some of the sauce over it. Lay 
horseradish round it, and pour what sauce remains into a 
boat. 

In the same way you may dress soles, flounders, large 
plaice, or dabs. 

26. Vol-au-vent d'Escalopes de Turbot au Bon Beurre. 

A long name, suited only for the bill-of-fare at a very 
"smart" dinner party. In plain English it is scollops of 
turbot on puiY paste. 

This is an excellent entree of desserte. Be particular to 
skin the fillets of the turbot when returned from table, as 
directed in No. 23. Cut them in scollops and put them into 
a stew-pan, well covered, to prevent their getting dr}^ With 
regard to the sauce, take six spoonfuls of "turned" sauce, 
which reduce with two spoonfuls of broth. When the sauce 
is reduced, thicken it with the yolks of two eggs, and 



152 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

refine it with at least a quarter of a pound of the best 
butter. If you should have any thick cream, introduce a 
little, as it will make the sauce mellower. Lastly, season 
Avell; put the scollops with the sauce, keep them hot, and 
send uj) the Avhole to table in a vol-au-vent. 



27. Petites Timballes of Fillets of Turbot k la Ven^tienne. 

This is an entree of dessertc held in high estimation. 
It requires but very little fish to make it. Cut what- 
ever is left of the turbot into dice, as small as possible. 
For the sauce take three spoonfuls of Bechamel, to which 
add a good lump of butter, salt, Avhite pepper, a little j^arsley 
chopped very fine, and well squeezed in a napkin, that it 
may not give a green colour to the sauce. Then put a 
little cavicc — that of Mackay's, which is the best, is the 
composition which agrees the most with all fish sauces, 
particularly when kept many years. Keep stirring your 
sauce, which is generally called " working " it. The French 
call it vanner — taking up the sauce in a ladle, and pouring 
it perpendicularly mto the stew-pan, repeating the operation 
frequently and very quickly, to make tlie liquid transparent. 
When it is mellow and of a good taste, throw in the small 
dice of turbot, keep them hot, and Avhen ready to send up 
to table, sfarnish the little timbales with the turbot. Let 
them lie for a moment in the oven, and serve them up 
hot. If 3'OU have no Bechamel, you must make use of 
melted butter enriched with a little cream. 



28. John Dory Boiled with Lohster Sauce. 

John Dory is boiled exactly the same as turbot, and the 
process in either case is so simple that I need not describe it. 
Put parsley round the fish, particularly in the opening of 
the head. 



FISH. 153 

29. Pillets of Soles k I'Orlie. 

Fillet two soles, and cut them in halves, lengthwise ; then 
lay them in a basin with an onion cut in slices, a little 
parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, two wine-glasses of vinegar, and a 
little pepper and salt ; let them remain thus two hours, then 
dry them in a cloth ; flour, egg, and bread-crumb them, and 
fry in oil ; dish them round without a napkin ; then put 
four tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce in a stew-pan Avith one of 
Harvey sauce and tAvo of good stock ; boil three minutes ; 
finish with a little sugar, and pour it in a dish, but not over 
the fish. This sauce requires to be rather thin. 

I have never been able to discover the meaninsr of 
•' Orli," " Orlie," or " Orly." The great French lexicographer, 
Littre, is Avholly silent on the subject. Perhaps " Orli " or 
■" Orly " was a French grand seigneur. 



30. Fillets of Soles au Gratin. 

Fillet two soles, egg-and-bread-crumb, and fry as above ; 
dish them on a thin border of mashed potatoes, pour the 
following sauce over them, and cover Avith bread-crumbs : — 
Put twelve tablespoonfuls of brown sauce in a stew-pan, 
and, when it boils, add a tablespoonful of chopped mush- 
rooms, one ditto of Worcester sauce, and one of essence of 
anchovies ; let it boil five minutes, season Avith a little sugar ; 
add tAvo yolks of eggs, put it in the oven for ten minutes, 
pass the salamander over it, and serve very hot. 



31. Fillets of Soles Fried. 

Cut off the fins of the sole and dip it in flour, then egg- 
and-bread-crumb it, but do not put it in the lard unless 



154 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

it is quite hot, which 3^011 may easily ascertain by throwing a 
drop of Avater in it : if it is hot enough you will hear a 
hissing sound ; allow the sole ten minutes to fry, or less, 
according to the size; dish it upon a napkin (a strainer is 
better), garnish Avith parsley, and serve with shrimp sauce. 



32. Fillets of Soles a la Maitre d'Hotel. 

Fillet a pair of soles (but neither cut them nor egg-and- 
bread-crumb them ) : rub an ounce of butter into a saute-pan, 
lay in the fillets, the skin-side downwards, and sprinkle 
chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon over 
them ; then place them over a slow tire ; turn them when 
about half done (they must be kept quite white). When 
done, lay the fillets on a cloth, cut them in halves slantingly, 
dish them round without a napkin, and place them in the 
hot closet. Then put ten tablespoonfuls of melted butter and 
two ditto of white sauce into the saute-pan, with a little 
more lemon-juice and chopped parsley ; boil it tAvo minutes ; 
add tAvo pats of butter, a little sugar and salt, and four table- 
spoonfuls of milk : pour over the fillets, and serve directly. 



33. Mayonnaise of Fillets of Soles. 

Simmer the fillets of tAvo soles in a saute-pan Avith a little 
butter, lemon-juice, pepper, and salt ; and Avhen done, put 
them in a press between tAvo dishes ; Avhen cold, divide each 
fillet into coUops two and a half inches long; trim them 
neatly, season them Avith vinegar, oil, pepper, and salt, and dish 
them in pyramidal rows on a bed of shredded lettuce, or any 
other salad ; cover them Avitli mayonnaise sauce (see p. 338) 
coloured Avith some spinach greening, or merely Avith plenty 



FISH. 155 

of very finely clioj^ped tarragon and chervil ; garnish round 
the base of the salad with a border of hard-boiled esfsrs, 
and serve. 



34. Sole a la Colbert. 

Make an incision in the back of a sole from the head 
nearly to the tail ; then break the bone in three pieces ; bread- 
crumb, and fry as in No. 31. When done, take out the 
pieces of bone and fill with the following : — Lay two ounces 
of butter on a plate with half a teaspoonful of chopped 
tarragon and chervil, two ditto of lemon-juice, and a little 
pepper and salt ; put about three parts of it into the sole, 
and mix the remainder with two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, pouring this round the fish, which is dished without 
a napkin ; put in the oven a few minutes, and serve very hot. 



35. Sole a la Meuniere. 

Cut the fins off a sole and crimp it on each side by 
making incisions across it ; then rub half a tablespoonful of 
salt and chopped onions well into it ; dip it in fiour and 
broil it over a slow fire. Have ready four pats of butter 
mixed with the juice of a lemon and a little cayenne pepper ; 
rub this over the sole, which is previously dished up without 
a napkin, turn the sole over once or twice, put it in the oven 
a minute, and serve very hot. 



36. Soles a la Franpaise. 

Skin and clean a j)air of soles, and put them into an 
earthen dish, Avith a quart of water, and half a pint of vinegar. 



156 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

Let them lie two hours, and then take them out and dry 
them with a cloth. Next place them in a stew-pan Avith a 
pint of white wine, a quarter of a pint of water, a very little 
thyme, a little sweet marjoram, winter savoury, and an onion 
.stuck with four cloves. Put in the soles, sprinkle in a very 
little bay-salt, cover them close, and let them simmer very 
gently till they are done. Then take them out, and lay 
them in a warm dish before the fire. Strain the liquor, 
put into it a piece of butter rolled in flour, and let it boil 
till of a proper thickness. Lay the soles in a dish, and pour 
the sauce over them. 

In the same manner you may dress a small turbot, or 
imy flat fish. 



37. Fried Soles, Tartar Sauce. 

As a postulate, please to remember, Madame Housekeeper 
and Mrs. Cook, that one sauce should never be followed 
by another of the same colour. To do so is as false blazonry 
as it is in heraldry to put tincture on tincture or metal 
on metal. 

Your sole should be plainly fried. It is perhaps better 
to fry it in a mixture of lard and oil, since the milk 
remaining in the butter is sure to burn. The only way 
to use butter for frying is to clarify it, but that costs 
money. Lard by itself is quite good enough ; but be careful 
that it is entirely clean, and that it does not burn. If you 
will get over your prejudices you can fry your sole, and 
indeed, any kind of fish, in oil, as the Italians and the 
Jews do. The Jews, by the wa}-, fry fish better than any 
•other people in the Avorld. They turn out, fried, not only 
soles, but dabs, plaice, whiting, briU, smelts, etc., of a beautiful 
golden tint. Be careful to procure the very best Lucca salad 
oil from a first-class Italian warehouse. 

Begin by cutting off the fins of your sole, and dipping it 



FISH. 15< 



in f.oiir ; then egg-and-bread-crimib it, but don't put it in 
grease until this is boiHng hot ; allow the sole ten minutes- 
to fry or less, according to size. (For the Tartar Sauce^ 
see p. 348.) 



38. To Stew Soles. 

Take the flesh from the bones of your soles, and cut 
each of them into eight pieces. Put a quart of boiled gravy 
into a stew-pan, a quarter of a pint of any white wine, 
some white pepper pounded, grated nutmeg, and a piece of 
lemon-peel. Stew these together nearly an hour, and add 
some cream, and a piece of butter mixed in flour. Keep 
the sauce stirring till it boils, put in the fish, and stew it 
a quarter of an hour. Take out the lemon- j)eel, and squeeze 
m some lemon-juice. The fish may be stewed whole in 
the same sauce ; or it may be cut as before directed, and 
a little gravy made with the bones and head. 



39. Sole Pudding. 

Split a pair of soles from the bone, and cut the fins 
close ; season with salt, pep]3er, nutmeg, and pounded mace,. 
and place the whole in layers, with half a hundred of oysters. 
Put the liquor of the oysters in the dish, Avith two or 
three spoonfuls of broth and some butter. Add a little 
thick cream, on this j^lace a layer of mashed potatoes, and 
bake for about half an hour. 



40. To Boil a Cod's Head. 

Wash it clean ; tie it up and dry it with a cloth. Allow 
for every three measures of water one of salt ; when it. 



158 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

boils, take off the scum, put in tlie fisli, and keep it boiling 
very fast for twenty-five minutes. Serve with it the roe 
cut into slices and fried with the chitterlings : garnish with 
curled parsley and horseradish. 

Sauces : Oyster, melted butter, or anchovy and butter. 

When the cod is to be kept for two or three days, cleanse 
it thoroughly and sprinkle it with nearly equal proportions 
of salt and sugar; and before it is boiled, cut it into slices 
three inches thick ; lay these in salt and water for two hours, 
changing the water once ; tie them in a cloth, and keep 
them in boilinsf salt and water for fifteen minutes. 



41. Cod's Head and Shoulders. 

Wash the head and shoulders well ; cut off the fins ; 
lay it on a dish ; pour some boiling Avater over part of the 
fish, and instantly scraj^e off* all the black scales, taking 
care not to break the skin ; repeat this till every part of 
the fish looks white, and then wash it in cold water. Put 
it on in boiling salt and water, and boil it for a quarter of 
an hour ; then lay it on a dish, rub it all over with the 
yolks of two or three beaten eggs, and strew it thickly 
with grated bread-crumbs mixed with pepper and minced 
parsley ; stick it all over with little bits of butter, and put it 
in an oven to brown. Mix a tablespoonful of flour with 
a quarter of a pound of butter, a quart of gravy, a teacupful 
of white wine, some pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. 
Mince the white meat of a lobster ; slightly brown three dozen 
oysters in a frying-pan, and j^ut them with half the liquor 
and the lobster to the gravy and the other things ; heat it 
up, and ]iouY it round the fish. Garnish with cut lemon. It 
is not necessary to have oj^sters and lobsters, but the dish 
is the better for both. 

To dress the same dish with a white sauce, the stock 



FISH. 159 



should be made of veal, or of an old fowl, and seasoned with 
white pepper and mace. 



42. To Bake Cod, or Haddock. 

Take the middle piece of the fish, and skin it ; make a 
stuffing with a little of the roe parboiled, a piece of butter, 
the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, some grated bread-crumbs, 
pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg : bind this with 
the beaten white of an egg ; put it into the fish, and sew the 
latter up. Place the whole in a tin dish, with bits of butter 
over the top of it, and bake it for an hour in a Dutch oven ; 
turn and baste it frequently. Garnish with fried roe, or 
oysters. 

Sauces : — Melted butter, oyster, or shrimp sauce. 



43. To Stew Cod. 

Season some slices of cod with grated nutmeg, pepper, 
salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, and an onion stuck with cloves. 
Put them into a stew-pan, wdth half a pint of white wine 
and a quarter of a pint of water. Cover them close, and 
let them simmer five or six minutes. Then squeeze in the 
juice of a lemon, put in a few 03sters, with their liquid 
strained, a piece ot butter rolled in flour, and a blade or 
two of mace. Cover them close, and let them stew gently. 
Shake the pan often, to prevent from burning. "When the 
fish is cooked, take out the onions and sweet herbs, lay 
the cod in a warm dish, pour the sauce over it, and send 
it up to table. 







160 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

44. Cod with. Oyster Sauce. 

After having emptied the cod, you must open the sound 
or white skin of the belly and wash it carefully all along the 
bone, that there may be no blood left ; be sure that the fish 
is absolutely white. Then lay it on a fish-plate, and jiut it 
into the kettle with salt and boiling spring water; as soon 
as-you see the fish boiling fast, slacken, and let it boil more 
gently, or else the outside will be done and the middle will 
bo raw ; as it is not easy to fix the time that it ought to 
remain in the water, you must judge according to the size 
of the fish ; when done, drain it, and serve it on a napldn 
garnished with green parsley. For the Oyster Sauce, you 
Avill find a recipe on p. 340. 



45. Cod with White Sauce (Cabillaud k la Bechamel). 

Boil two nice, well-cut slices of cod ; dish them without 
a napkin, and have ready the following sauce : — Put nearly 
a quart of Bechamel in a stew-pan, with a quarter of a 
pint of white stock ; stir it over the fire, to reduce, ten 
minutes ; then add two teaspoonfuls of essence of anchovies, 
a little cayenne pepper, and sugar; finish with a gill ot 
whipped cream, and pour over the fish. 



46. Salt Cod a la Maitre d'Hotel. 

The black-skinned ones are generally reckoned the best. 
Be particular to have the salt well soaked out, put the fish 
into cold water, and place on the fire. Let it be cooked in 
a large vessel, that it may have plenty of room. The moment 
it is beginning to boil, take it off the fire, and keep it in the 
water well covered ; it will then be tender, but if it should 
boil, it will be tough and thready. Make a Maitre d'Hutel, 



FISH. 161 

with half a pound of butter, a spoonful of flour, four or 
five sjDoonfuls of water, and a little salt. When the sauce 
begins to thicken, work it well, that it may be more mellow. 
Have some parsley chopped very fine, mix a pinch of it 
with a little glaze, and the juice of a lemon ; then taste 
the sauce. If it be too brown in colour, a little thick 
cream will make it both whiter and more mellow. Take 
away the skin and bones of the fish, and put them into the 
sauce, shaking it gently for fear of breaking them. Send 
it up either in a vol-au-rent or in a deep dish with crusts 
of puif paste. 



47. Salt Cod a la Froven9ale. 

After having drawn out the salt by soaking, and done the 
fish as above, pound two or three heads of garlic, which throw 
into a stew-pan with two spoonfuls of oil, a quarter of a pound 
of butter, a little salt, and some coarse pepper. Continue 
shaking the stew-pan with its contents. Put in the salt 
fish quite hot, and keep shaking till the Avhole is well mixed 
together. If you should find that it is not mellow enough, 
add a little oil, and, if you like, a spoonful or so of 
smooth white sauce. Such entrees as this require to be 
highly seasoned, and will induce the guests to send the 
bottle round freely. 



48. Salt Cod a la Bonne Femnie. 

This is nearly the same thing as the foregoing, only boil 
some potatoes, and let them stand until they are cold ; turn 
them into corks, and then cut them into round slices much 
about the size of a half-cro\\*n piece, which put with the 
sauce and salt fish. Taste, and season well. 

L 



162 THE TnOEOUGH GOOD COOK. 

49. Salt Cod with Farsuips. 

'■ - - Let your fish remain in water all night to soak, and if 
you put- a glass of vinegar to it, this will draw out the salt 
and make it eat fresh. Boil it the next day, and when 
'it is done, break it into -flakes an the dish. Pour over it 
parsnips boiled and beaten fine with butter and cream. 
Egg sauce, however, is more generally used, and the parsnips 
are treated as an independent vegetable. 



50. Scollops of Cod. 

This is a good entree. If you have any cod left, 
take up all the flakes, being careful to leave no skin nor 
bones. Have a cream sauce ready, or else take three spoon- 
fuls of Bechamel and a good bit of butter ; work these 
over the stove, and season with pepper and salt. AVhen 
the sauce is well mixed with the butter, put in the scollops 
and stir them well, that they may absorb the sauce 
properly. Let the fish stand a iiiinute till it is cold, then 
make a bordering round the dish with slices of fried bread. 
Dish the scollops, level them smooth with your knife, dust 
them over with crumbs of bread, and baste them wdtli 
butter ; repeat both these operations ; use the salamander 
to give the fish a . colour, and serve up with toasts of 
bread, one round, one oblong, alternately, for. the .salve of 
ornament. 



51. Cod with Cheese. 

Prepare some Bechamel sauce (p. 327) for the cod, add 
some Gruyere and Parmesan cheese, grated ; dress the fish 
on the dish, and spread over it grated cheese and bread ; 
moisten it with butter in little pats, and brown it in the 
Dutch oven. 



FISH. 163 

52. Whiting Pudding. 

Cut up in pieces a pound of fish, free from skin and bones, 
and pass tlirough a sieve ; mix with eight ounces of rice flour 
a httle salt, and an ounce of butter. This mixture should 
be added by gentle degrees to the fish ; and the whole should 
be well pounded in a mortar, adding, meanwhile, two ounces 
of butter and the yolks of three raw eggs. Then turn out ; 
season in a basin with pepper and salt ; press your puddings 
into as many small moulds as yon require, or knead them 
into egg form. Steam or poach in a bain-marie pan, which 
is simply a large, rectangular, deepish pan, filled with water, 
Avhich you put on the hot stove while you poach or steam 
the contents of smaller stew-pans. Sprinkle the tops of your 
puddings lightly with the coral of a lobster. Serve with 
a white, creamy Bechamel, omitting the ham, and using 
a fish-stock instead of a veal one. 

This is a famous dish at the " Ship," Greenwich. 



53. Puddings of Whitings a I'llde. 

Take the spa^^'n of a lobster, which pound well with a 
little butter, and strain throucrh a sieve. Mix the whole 
well with forcemeat. Then mould two puddings of the 
diameter of 3-our dish. Poach them, AVhen they are done, 
drain them on a clean towel, then have the tail of a very 
red lobster and scollop it into several pieces. Next slit 
the puddings, cover them with white Bechamel, and intro- 
duce the pieces of lobster, taking care to put the red part 
upward. When the puddings are equally decorated, lay 
them in a dish, cover them hermetically, and put them for 
a moment in the hot-closet to keep them hot. 

The sauce may be made as follows : — Take two spoonfuls 
of white sauce, which reduce Avith an e(|ual quantity of broth 
L 2 



16 i TEE THOBOUGE GOOD COOK. 

and a thickening of two yolks of eggs. Work a quarter of 
a pound of butter, season with a very little caj'enne, some 
salt, and a little lemon-juice. Keep it rather liquid, in order 
to cover the intervals between the slices of lobster. If you 
pay proper attention to the making of this dish, it Avill 
not merely aftbrd a pleasing appearance, but will also be 
found a relish for the epicure. 



54. Broiled Whitings. 

Empty the whitings, scale them, but mind that you 
preserve the liver, which is very delicate. When you have 
washed and wiped them clean, slit the back, on both sides. 
Beat the yolk of an egg with a little salt and joepper, and 
rub some of it over the whitings with a brush. Then dip 
the lish into crumbs of bread, next into claritied butter, 
and then into crumbs ol bread aofain. Broil them of a fine 
colour, and serve up. The sauce is to be sent up separately 
in a boat, Avhether it is a Maitre d'Hotel, anchovy sauce, 
or melted butter ; for if you were to pour it over the fish, 
the whiting would not prove palatable, and the sauce Avould 
get too thick. 



55. Whiting an Gratin. 

Have the whitino-s skinned, Avitli their tails turned into 
their inouths ; butter a saute-pan, and put in the fish, 
with a tablespoon ful of chopped onions and four table- 
spoonfuls of brown sauce over each ; sprinkle bread-crumbs 
over them, and a little clarified butter, and put them in a 
moderate oven half an hour ; take them out and dress them 
on a dish Avithout a napkin ; then put twelve tablespoonfids 
more of brown sauce into a saute-pan, with a tcaspoonful of 



FISH. 165 

chopped miisliroonis, one ditto chopped parsley, one ditto 
essence of anchovy, a httle pepper, salt, and sugar ; boil 
ten minutes, pour round the tish, and pass the salamander 
over them. 



56. Quenelles (Forcemeat Balls) of Whitings. 

The same process as for other quenelles. The mixtures 
are the same. You may make a vast number of entrees 
■\vith quenelles of whitings, such as "Quenelles a TAllemande," 
in a vol-au-vent, a " casserole au ris," and " boudins," either 
a rude or a la Richelieu, which you have poached and 
cooked. Brush then over with crumbs of bread, and fry 
them. Serve under an Italian sauce, refined with a good 
lump of butter. All entrees of fish require some additional 
butter in the sauce. 



57. Fillets of Whiting Broiled a la llllaitre d'Hotel. 

Take up the fillets of four whitings, after having washed 
them clean. Cut each fillet in two, brush them with yolks of 
eggs, season with pepper and salt, and dip them into crumbs 
of bread, and next into clarified butter. Broil them of a fine 
brown, dish them en miroton, and sauce them with the 
Maitre d'Hotel. 

Fillets of Avhitings never answer when saute, as they 
have not substance enough ; and indeed I do not in any 
sense approve of their being dressed in that style. 



58. Whitebait. 

Strew some flour on a cloth, and nothing else. Eggs 
are vanity. Take the " bait " out of the water with your 



166 THE THOBOUGn GOOD COOK. 

hands and drain tlieni. Never mind linoferinQr them. When 
well drained, roll them on the floured cloth, of Avhich take 
lip the corners successively, and shake your fish as though 
they were so many tiny Sancho Panzas that were being 
tossed in a blanket. Shake them again over a sieve, to relieve 
them of the superfluous flour. Put them in a wire basket 
and dip into a frying-kettle full of very hot fat. Let them 
remain two minutes on the fire. Then give the pan a shake, 
and let it cook for another half minute, and so on. At the 
end of two and a half minutes the " bait " ouoht to be done. 
They must he greij, not brown, wJien they come to table. Of 
course, towards August, when the " bait " run large, they will 
take a little longer time to fry. You may crisp them before 
the fire before serving, but don't let them o^et too brittle. 
Broken whitebait might just as well be so nuicli sawdust. 
Sprinkle lightly with salt ; pe23per, not too higlil}-, with white 
pepper, and serve with thin broAvn bread and butter, and 
lemons cut in quarters. 

Cooks have a pernicious habit of over-frying whitebait, 
which indeed can never be had at home in the perfection 
in which you get them at Greenwich, Avhere they are dressed 
as soon as caught and by persons in constant practice. 



59. Devilled Whitebait. 

This is simply the previous whitebait re-heated for a 
minute or two, and sprmklcd either with red or black 
pepper. 



60. Red Mullets a I'ltalienne. 

Of all fish this is one of the most sought after by male 
epicures, who consider it a " game " fish, and affectionately 
style it "the woodcock of the ocean." It is not customar}^ 



FlSff. 167 

to " draAv " or gut it. When in good order, it is of a nice 
red colour, and the eyes look very bright. Make a paper 
box the length of the fish, then oil the box and lay in the 
fish, season them with a little pepper, salt, chopped parsley, 
and lemon-juice, and pour tAvo tablespoonfuls of white sauce 
over each, then put them on in a moderate oven, and bake 
twenty minutes or half an hour, according to the size, and 
when done slightly brown them with the salamander ; serve 
them in the paper boxes, with a rich brown sauce poured 
over them. 



61. Red Mullets with Sweet Herbs. 

Place the mullets in a pan with an ounce of butter, a little 
" A 1 " sauce, anchovy, and a glass of port wine ; bake them 
in the oven, or else covered up over a slow tire ; and when 
done, remove the fish on to the dish ; add to their liquor 
some finely chopped mushrooms, parsley, a little shallot, nut- 
meg, the juice of half a lemon, and a little Hour ; stir these 
ingredients together over a slow fire for a few minutes ; pour 
the sauce over the mullets, and serve very hot. 



62. Red Mullets a la Ravigote. 

Put the mullets in boxes and make the sauce thus: — 
Place a quarter of a pound of fresh butter on a plate with 
a tablespoonful of chopped tarragon, one ditto of chopped 
chervil, one ditto of lemon-juice, and a little pepper, salt, 
and sugar. Mix all well together ; have ten tablespoonfuls 
of white sauce boiling in a stCAV-pan, and throw the other 
ingredients into it, stir it over the fire till quite smooth. 



168 TEE THOBOUGE GOOD COOK. 

and pour it over your mullets in the paper boxes. If too 
thick, add a little milk. 



63. Brill. 

__This is a very delicate and very luscious eating fish, 
for which caper sauce is suitable. It is cooked like turbot, 
and is almost as good. When very fresh, you may use it 
for fillets (see No. 23). 



64. Dublin Bay Haddock, Baked. 

Fill the belly of the fish with stuffing, sew it up with 
pack-thread, and truss it Avith its tail in its mouth ; rub 
a quarter of a pound of butter over it, set it on a baking- 
sheet, put it in a warmish oven and bake it three-quarters 
of an hour ; when done, dress it on a dish without a napkin, 
and pour a sharp sauce round it. 



65. Haddock Fudding. 

Take a haddock weighing four pounds, one quart of milk, 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, one of butter, one small slice of 
onion, two sprigs of parsley, salt, and pepper. Put the fish 
on in boiling water — enough to cover, and containing one 
tablespoonful of salt. Cook gently twenty minutes, then 
lift out of the water, but let it remain on the tray. Now 
carefully remove the top skin and the head, then turn the 
fish over into the dish in which it is to be served (it 
should be stone china), and scrape off the skin from the 
other side. Pick out all the small bones. You will find 
them the whole length of the back, and a few in the 



FISH. 169 

lower part of the fish, near the tail. They are in rows 
like pins in a paper, and if you start all right it will take 
but a few minutes to remove them. Then take out the 
backbone, starting at the head and working gently down 
towards the tail. Great care must be taken that the fish 
may keep its shape. Cover with the cream (for which a 
recipe is given below), and bake about ten minutes, just to 
brown it a little. Garnish with parsley or little puff paste 
cakes, or you can cover it with the Avhites of three egg^, 
beaten to a stiff froth, and then slightly browned. 

This is a most excellent dish ; and haddock is cheap. 
It would be more esteemed if it were dearer. 



66. To Prepare Cream for Haddock Pudding. 

Put the milk, parsley, and onion on to boil, reserving half 
a cupful of milk to mix with the flour. When it boils, stir 
in the flour, w^hich has been mixed smoothly with the milk. 
Cook eight minutes. Season highly with salt and pepper ; 
add the butter, strain on the fish, and proceed as directed. 



67. Herrings with Mustard Sauce. 

Having gutted and wiped your herrings quite clean, melt 
some butter and add to it chopped parsley, shallots, 
green onions, pepper, and salt. Dip the herrings in this, 
and roll them in bread-crumbs. Then broil them and serve 
them with a sauce made of melted butter, flour, broth, a little 
vinegar, pepper, and salt. When done, put to them as much 
mustard as you think projDer. 

This is a thoroughly English dish, for the reason that 
English nuistard is the very best procurable. All foreign 



170 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

mustards are feeble, and have to be fortified with other 
condiments. 



68. Flounders Water-Soiichet (or Zootje). 

_A Dutch dainty, for which we are indebted to Wilham III. 
You rarely get it good, save at Greenwich. Why, I cannot 
sa}^ Eead the following recipe, and you will find that it is 
by no means difficult to make : — Put a pint of water into 
a deep saute-pan, with half a tablespoonful of salt and a little 
jDopper, and forty small sprigs of parsley ; when nearly boiling, 
have ready six small flounders (cut in halves in a slanting 
direction), and put them into the saute-pan ; let them simmer 
for about twelve minutes ; take them up and dress them on 
a dish without a napkin ; then add a little sugar to the liquor 
they Avere boiled in, reduce it five minutes, and pour over 
the fish. Half broth may be used, with hah a pint of Avater 
instead of a pint. 



69. Another Water-Souchet. 

Take some parsley roots, and j3Ut them into thin strips 
about an inch lonof. Put your roots into water, with a 
bunch of parsley, a few young onions, and a moderate 
c[uantity of salt. Let this liquor stew for an hour. Then put 
in your fish, and stew till done. Have ready leaves of parsley 
(without the stalks), which have been blanched separately 
in salt and Avater. Drain your fish ; and take care to preserve 
the parsley roots cut in slips as above. Then put the fish in 
a deep dish (not a tureen), with some of the liquor in which 
they have been stewed, and which you strain through a 
silk tammy. Throw in your parsley roots, and the leaves 
as well ; and send up the souchet with thin slices of brown 
bread and butter, and in a separate plate. 



FISR. ]71 

Fish for water-souchet : Salmon, soles, whiting, flounders, 
or char. The salmon should be cut in small blocks ; the 
other lish in pieces of convenient size. The fish broth 
should be rather salt. 



70. Fricasseed Flounders and Plaice. 

Havinof cleaned the fish, and taken off the black skin bub 
not the white, cut the flesh from the bones into long slices, 
and dip these into yolk of egg. Strew over them some 
bread raspings, and fry them in claritied butter. When they 
are cooked lay them upon a plate, and keep them hot. 
To make your sauce ; Take the bones of the fish, and boil 
them in some water. Then put in an anchov}% some' thyme, 
parsley, a little pepper, salt, cloves, and mace. Let these 
simmer till the anchovy is dissolved, and then take the 
butter the fish was fried in, and put it into a pan over the 
fire. Shake some flour into it, and keep stirring it mean- 
while. Then strain the liquor into it, and let it boil till 
it is thick. Squeeze some lemon-juice into it, put the fish 
into a dish, and pour the sauce over them. 



71. Alose (Shad). 

This fish is held in high estimation in France, and espe- 
cially in Paris : it is also frequently served at American 
tables. It must be scalded, emptied, and nicely Avashed. 
Next it is to be marinaded in a little oil, with pepper and 
salt. It is necessary to split it, that the salt may pene- 
trate. Broil it on both sides over a slow fire. When it is 
done, let it be served with caper sauce, or with sorrel — not 
puree, but what is called farce. 



172 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

72. Shad, Broiled Maitre d'Hotel. 

Pare and cut a small shad in two, scale it and remove 
the backbone ; lay it on a dish, sprinkling it over with a 
pinch of salt, and baste with one tablespoonful of oil. Leave 
it for a few moments, then broil it on a slow fire in a double 
broiler for about fifteen minutes on the flesh side, and for 
one minute on the skin side, leaving the roe inside. Put 
it on a hot dish, spread a gill of good Maitre d'HOtel sauce 
.(p. 348) over, and serve with six slices of lemon. 



73. Mackerel with Brown Butter. 

Broil the fish ; dish it up ; put some butter into the 
frying-pan, fry in it some parsley, and pour the whole upon 
the mackerel. Then warm in the pan a spoonful of vinegar, 
some salt, and pepper; pour this also upon the fish, and 
serve hot. 



74. To Bake Mackerel. 

Clean them ; cut off the heads and tails ; put them into a 
deep dish, and pour over them equal quantities of water and 
vinegar, some whole black pepper, a little mace, salt, one 
or two bay-leaves, and a small quantity of port wine ; tie 
over the dish a sheet of thick white paj^er which 3'ou have 
buttered. 

Another way is to season them with pepper, salt, and 
mace, all finely powdered, putting bits of butter into the 
bottom of the dish, and a little more upon the mackerel. 
They may be eaten hot or cold ; if cold, with vinegar ; if 
hot, serve with parsley and butter, or melted butter with 
catsup and soy. 



FISIT. 17? 

75. To Broil Mackerel. 

First clean your mackerel well, then split it down 
the back, and season it with pepper, salt, some mint, 
parsley, and fennel, all chopped very fine. Flour it,, 
and fry them of a fine light brown, and put them on a 
dish and strainer. Use fennel and butter for sauce, and 
garnish with parsley. 



76. Mackerel a la Maitre d'Hotel. 

Clean the mackerel and wipe it dry ; then split it down 
the back and marinade it at least half an hour — or an hour 
or two, if there be time — in a little oil, seasoned with pepper 
and salt ; broil it, and baste it with the marinade. Dish it 
up ; garnish the mside with fresh butter rolled in parsley,, 
salt, and pepper; slightly warm the dish, and serve with 
lemon-juice, or with a dash of vinegar over it. In order to 
prevent the mackerel from breaking while it is being boiled,, 
you had better wrap it with the marinade in good oiled 
paper. 



77. Mackerel a la Maitre d'Hotel : Another Way. 

Choose a large fresh mackerel with a soft roe ; cut out 
the gills ; cut oft" the fins ; make an incision an inich deep down 
the back, lay the fish on a dish, strcAv salt and pepper over 
with an ounce of butter, an onion cut in rings, and whole 
parsley. Roll the butter from time to time in this mixture ; 
and half an hour before serving rub your gridiron with butter, 
wipe your mackerel, dust it Avith a little salt, and lay it on 
the gridiron until of a good colour: then turn it till it is 
of an equally good colour on the opposite side. Lay the 
fish on its back for five minutes, then dish it and open 



174 THE TEOEOUGE GOOD COOK. 

tliG flesh of the back with a spoon and introduce your 
Maitre d'HOtel butter, which is only butter worked up 
wdth salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and the juice of a 
lemon. 



78. Mackerel an Beurre Noir. 

'Open your mackerel at the back, season with pepper 
and salt, butter all over, and lay quite flat on the grid- 
iron; broil it about a quarter of an hour over a moderate 
Are, and lay it in a dish without a napkin. Then put 
half a pound of butter in a stew-pan, place it over a sharp 
fire till it becomes black (but not burnt) ; throw in half 
a handful of picked parsley, fry it crisp, and pour it over 
the fish. Next put four tablespoonfuls of common vinegar 
into the stew-pan, boil it half a minute, season with pepper 
and salt, and pour likewise over the fish. All that you 
have now to do is to put the whole into the oven for 
five minutes, and serve very hot. 

Concerning " black butter," see p. 147. 



79. Forcemeat of Eels. 

Take two fine eels, boil them till they are nearly done 
enough ; then put them into cold water ; broil a perch ; when 
it is nearly done, lay it to cool ; take the meat from the bones 
of both fish and mince it, and add to it the liver of a cod, 
minced also; then season it with pepper and salt; add 
sweet herbs, picked from the stalks, some small onions 
minced, some scraped bacon, a little veal suet, a few bread- 
crumbs, and a piece of butter ; put the whole into a mortar 
and beat it to a paste. It is used for fish pies, and adds a fine 
relish to all made dishes of fish. It may also be rolled up 
into balls, and fried or stewed. 



FISH. 175 



A most assuringly appetising concoction. Almost as 
great a favourite as potted shrimps with my dear deceased 
friend, Montas^u Williams, Q.C. 



80. Pried Eels. 

If yom' eels are small, they should be curled round and 
dipped into egg, and then carefully fried. If of a good size, 
cut them into pieces ; season them with pepper, salt, and 
nutmeg ; flour them ; fry them in butter. 

Some people are prejudiced against eels. Combat the 
prejudice; subdue it. Consult Sir Hemy Thompson. Conger- 
eel, in particular, is as nourishing as turtle. 



8 . Fricassee of Eels. 

Skin three or four large eels, and notch them from end 
to end. Cut each of them into four or live pieces, and lay 
them for half an hour to crimp in spring water ; dry them in 
a cloth and put them in a pan, Avith a bit of fresh butter, 
a green onion or two, and a little chopped parsley. Set the 
pan on the fire, and shake them about for a few minutes ; 
put in half a pint of white wine, and the same quantity 
of stock, with pepper, salt, and a blade of mace ; stew all 
together about half an hour ; then add the yolks of four 
or five eggs ; beat smooth a little grated nutmeg and some 



chopped parsley. Stir all well together, and let it simmer for 
a few minutes ; then squeeze in the juice of a lemon, give 
the whole a good shake, pour it into the dish, and serve very 
hot. Garnish your dish Avitli lemon. 



176 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

82. Eel Fie. 

Skin and clean the eels ; cut them in pieces about two 
inches in length ; pass them with chopped parsley and 
shallots, a little grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, 
for five minutes ; then lay a little light forcemeat at the 
bottom of a deep dish ; put the eels over it ; cover it with 
puff paste; bake it, and put into it either Bechamel sauce 
(p. 327) or brown gravy. 



83. Larded Eel. 

Lard an eel along the back with small pieces of bacon ; 
roll, and tie it up ; put it into a pan with a cooked marinade. 
AVhen it has lain some time in this, cover it with bread- 
crumbs and bake it. 



84. Matelote of Eels. 

Skin a 2^oi^^ii<^^ '^^d ^ l^'^^lf of eels, and cut them into 
pieces two inches in length. When well washed, put them 
m a stew-pan with a tablespoonful of batter; fry them for 
two minutes ; add a glassful of red wine, a third of a pinch 
of nutmeg, half a pinch of salt, and a third of a pinch of 
pepper ; also a faggot of herbs, a glassful of fish stock, or white 
broth, and three tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor. Add 
six small glazed onions, and six mushroom buttons. Cook 
for thirty minutes, then put in a tablespoonful of brown gravy ; 
stir well while cooking two minutes longer, and serve with 
six fried pieces of bread garnished with onion sauce (p. 339). 

I do not know an English synonym for " matelote," but 
Mrs. Cook can pronounce the word, even as she can pronounce 
" puree." Still, there is no rule without an exception. "We 
once had a cook who always called a " puree " a " pleurey." 



FISH. Ill 

85. Entree of Eels. 

Take two large eels, bone them, and lay them flat ; put 
light forcemeat, well seasoned, upon each ; roll them up 
separately ; bind them round with tape ; put them in a stew- 
pan with a gill of sherry, one clove of garlic, half a bay-leaf, 
four peeled shallots, a little thyme, and a pint of veal broth. 
Let them stew till done, then strain the liquor, skim it free 
from fat, season to the palate, thicken with flour and butter, 
reducmg it to half a pint ; put the eels into a deep dish, glaze 
the tops, and serve them up Avith the sauce under, and pieces 
of fried bread round the dish. 

Once for all, " The Thorough Good Cook " is written for 
abstainers as well as non-abstainers. In culinary matters I 
am Catholic. If you object to alcohol in your cookery, leave 
it Old. Exactly the same observation will apply to garlic. 
Many English ladies have an absolute abhorrence of garlic 
(one of the four pillars of cookery — the others being the 
lemon, the anchovy, and the egg) in consequence of its. 
offensive odour. But garlic, cooked, is wholly inoftensive. 



86. Another Entree of Eels. 

Skin and cleanse your eels, bone them, and cut them into- 
pieces about a finger in length ; pass them over a slow fire 
in a small quantity of sweet herbs, shallots, pepper, salt, 
butter, and lemon-juice. When they are three-parts done, put 
them on a dish ; dip each piece in the liquor ; bread-crumb 
them, and broil over a clear fire. Serve with anchovy sauce. 



87. Broiled Eels. 

Skin and cleanse your eels, rub them with the yolk of 
an Qgg; strew bread-crumbs over them, chopped parsley, 
M 



178 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

sage, pepper, and salt. Baste tliem well "with butter, and 
put them in a dripping-pan. Roast or broil them, and serve 
them up with parsley and butter. 



88. Broiled Eels a I'ltalienne. 

If for an entree, choose two moderate-sized eels, take off 
the skin, wash, bone and dry them thoroughly ; toss them 
in an egg beaten wp with pepper and salt; then fry them 
of a good brown colour. Serve with a good Italian sauce 
under them. 



89. To Spitchcock Eels. 

Having skinned, gutted, and washed your eels, dry them 
with a cloth. Sprinkle them Avith pepper, salt, and a little 
dried sage ; turn them backwards, and skewer them. Rub 
your gridiron with beef suet, broil them of a good brown ; 
put them on your dish with melted butter, and garnish with 
fried parsley. 



90. Another way to Spitchcock Eels. 

Skin, slit up the eel, and bone it ; wash and dry it, cut 
it in pieces three or four inches long; dredge these with 
flour, which is to be wiped off so as to leave all dry. Dip the 
pieces in a thick batter made of melted butter, yolk of eggs, 
minced parsley, sage, shallot (very little shallot), pepper, and 
salt. Roll them next in fine breiid-crnmbs. Dip them in 
the batter ao-ain, and roll them asfain in the bread-crumbs. 
The pieces may now, to justify the name of spitchcock, be 
impaled on small spits. But whether thus impaled or not, 
they are to be broiled on or before a clear lire to a light 



FISH 179 



brown tint. Let them be sent to table garnished with parsley 
fried crisp, .and with a sauce-boat of English biitter-saiice, 
sharpened with lemon-juice. 



91. To Stew Eels. 

Having skinned, gutted, and washed your eels very clean 
in six or eight waters, cut them in pieces about as long as 
your finger; add just water enough for sauce, and put in 
a small onion stuck Avith cloves, a small bundle of sweet 
herbs, a blade or two of mace, and some whole pepper in a 
thin muslin rag. Cover close, and let the whole stew very 
softly. Put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little 
chopped parsley. When you find the flesh is quite tender and 
Avell done, take out the onion, spice, and sweet herbs. Put 
in salt enough to season it, and then dish it up with the 
sauce. Will be all the better for a glass of fruity port 
wine ; and I am one of those who prefer to retain the 
onions with the eels, when served. 



92. Collops of Eels Broiled a la Tartare. 

Skin the eels as above, cut the collops about four inches 
long, make a marinade or gentle stew, Stew them in this 
marinade, and, when they are done, let them cool ; then brush 
them over with yolk of eggs mixed with a little salt, and 
dip them into crumbs of bread ; then into clarified butter, 
and strew over them crumbs of bread again. Broil them of 
a fine colour, or bake them, and serve them up with a 
Remoulade, made as follows : — Put into a mortar a spoonful of 
very fine chopped shallots, the yolks of two boiled eggs, 
a spoonfid of mustard, salt, pepper, and a little cayenne. 
M 2 



180 THE THOIWUGR GOOD COOK. 

Pound the whole well ; then rub gently one or two spoonfuls 
of line Lucca oil and a little vineo-ar. Pass this sauce throusrh 
a fine tammy, and add the yolk of a raw egg, to prevent it 
turning oily. If you wish the sauce to be green, use extract 
of spinach (see p. 352), and some scented vinegar, such as 
tarraofon or elder. 



93. Collops of Eels a la Poulette. 

There are some peojDle who cook eels "a la poulette" 
in the same manner as a fricassee of chickens ; it is better, 
however, to stew them in a marinade, and then to make 
the sauce separately. On taking them from the marinade, 
drain them, put them into the sauce, and keep them there 
for ten minutes before you send the dinner up to table. 

If you should have no " turned " sauce, make a little 
wdiite stock ; moisten with either water or broth, to which 
add a bunch of parsley, and green onions, pepper, salt, a 
Small white onion, a few mushrooms, and a little sflaze. 
When the mixture has been boiling for half an hour (this is 
none too long if the flour is to be Avell done), take out the 
parsley and onions, skim the sauce, mix a little chopped 
parsley and the juice of a lemon with the thickening, and 
serve up hot. 



94. £el en Canap^. 

Cut an eel into pieces about two or three inches long, and 
take out the backbone for use. Make a farce with some of 
the meat cut into small dice, with mushrooms and carp-roes 
(if any), a little butter, chopped parsley, shallots, pepper, and 
salt. Make likewise a fine forcemeat Avith some of the flesh 
and bread-crumbs soaked in cream, parsley and nuishrooms 
chopped fine, pepper, and salt, mixed with the yolks of two 



FISH. 181 

or three eofsrs. Cut bread-crumb and the backbone into 
pieces of equal length and about two inches wide ; lay some 
of the fine forcemeat upon the pieces of bread, and on 
these place the pieces of backbone covered with the other 
farce ; then some of the fine farce again, laid smoothly over 
with a knife dipped in egg; now strew with crumbs and 
small bits of butter ; bake in a moderate oven or under a 
braising-pan cover, and serve with any sauce you may 
like best. 



95. Eel Pudding. 

Skin and cleanse three good-sized eels, which cut into 
j^ieces about two inches in length ; put a good-sized bunch of 
parsley, thyme, and three bay-leaves, all tied together, into 
a stew-pan, Avith an onion (into which you have stuck four 
cloves), a glass of port wine, and a pint of broth ; lay in 
the pieces of eels, and set them upon the fire to simmer 
for ten minutes ; take them out, laying them upon a cloth to 
drain ; skim off all the fat from the stock the eels were 
cooked in, to which add rather more than half a pint of 
brown sauce ; let the whole boil until reduced to three parts 
of a pint, when dress the pieces of eels up in a pie-dish, strain 
the sauce over a sieve, and let stand till cold. Place over 
the fish a thick layer of mashed potatoes ; put the dish 
back in a slow oven and bake for about an hour. Cover 
the pie with a sheet of notepaper, so that it may not brown 
before being thoroughly cooked through. 



182 TEE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

96. Conger Eel. 

Wash the fish in several waters, and dry it in a cloth ; 
cut it into slices, rather thick, and sprinkle them with salt ; 
broil them over a slow fire, and serve them with a Tartar 
sauce, or wdth black butter, as you do with skate ; also, 
with white caper sauce or sliced gherkins. 



97, Oyster Loaves. 

Cut off the top of some small French rolls, take out 
the crumb, and fry them brown and crisp with clarified 
butter ; then fry some bread-crumbs, stew the requisite 
quantity of oysters, bearded and cut into two, in their own 
liquor, with a little white wine, some gravy, and seasoned 
with grated lemon-peel, pounded mace, pepper, and salt ; 
add a bit of butter ; fill the rolls with the oysters, and serve 
them with the fried bread-crumbs in the dish. 



98. Fried Oysters. 

Make a batter as for pancakes, seasoned with grated nut- 
meg, white pepper, and salt, and add some finely grated 
bread-crumbs, dip in the oysters, and fry them of a light 
brown in beef dripping. 



99. Tried Oysters : Another Way. 

Dip them into the white of an egg beaten uj), roll 
them in finely-grated bread-crumbs, seasoned with grated 
nutmeg, pepper, salt, and proceed as directed above. 



FISH. 183 

100. Stewed Oysters. 

"With a quart of oysters and their hqiior strained, put 
a glass of white wine, one anchovy bruised, seasoning with 
white pepper, saU, a httle mace, and a bunch of svv^eet 
herbs ; let all stew gently for a quarter of an hour. Pick 
out the bunch of herbs, add a quarter of a pound of 
fresh butter, kneaded in a tablespoonful of flour, and 
stew the oysters ten or twelve minutes. Serve them garn- 
ished with bread sippets and cut lemon. Or they may be 
stewed simply in their own liquor, seasoned with salt, 
pepper, and grated nutmeg, and thickened with cream, 
flour, and butter. 



101. Roast Oysters. 

Large oysters, not opened. A few minutes before they are 
wanted, put them on a gridiron over a moderate fire. When 
done, they Avill open; do not lose the liquor that is in the 
shell with the ovster. Serve them hot on a napkin. 



102. Broiled Oysters. 
Dip twenty-four large and freshly opened oysters in half 
bread-crumbs and half biscuit powder ; flatten them with the 
hand, and broil them on a well-greased gridiron for two 
minutes on each side ; then salt them slightly, and serve on 
six pieces of toast; lightly glaze them with Maitre d'Hotel 
sauce (p. 348) on the top. 



103. Oyster Hatelets (a Polish term for Skewers). 

Cut into small pieces a sweetbread and a slice or two 
of bacon ; beard some large oysters, and season all highly 
with chopped parsley, a shallot, a Httle thyme, pepper, and 



184 TEE TEOBOUGE GOOD COOK. 

salt. Then fasten them upon wh-e skewers ' (silver ones are 
best) ; put sifted bread-crumbs over them, and broil or fry 
them of a light brown colour. Take them off" the skewers 
and serve them with some rich gravy, to which add a little 
catsup and lemon pickle. 



104. Hatelets : Another Way. 

Fry some sweet herbs in butter, with a little Hour and 
oyster liquor ; season this sauce well ; reduce and thicken 
it with the yolks of three eggs. Have ready some oysters 
blanched in their own liquor ; place them on skewers, and, the 
above sauce being cold, spread it completely over the oysters ; 
roll them in bread-crumbs, dip them in beaten eggs, bread- 
crumb them a second time, and fry them of a nice colour. 



105. Oyster Sausages. 

Take half a pound of lean beef or mutton, three-quarters of 
a pound of beef suet, two score of oysters bearded and scalded 
in their own liquor, then dried ; chop all together, adding 
bread-crumbs and yolks of eggs to " bind." Season well with 
salt, white pepper, mace, and a grate of nutmeg ; or if you 
wish to make the mixture very savoury, leave out the 
mace and nutmeg, but add a little cayenne, with a minced 
shallot and a spoonful of garlic vinegar. The mince may be 
either made into sausages or fried in shapes. 



106. Little Oyster Souffles. 
Beard a dozen sauce oysters, and cut them into little 
square pieces ; strain their liquor into a cup. Put two ounces 



FISH. 185 

of fine flour into a stew-pan "vvith two ounces of butter, a tiny 
dust of ca3'enne pepper, a pinch of salt, three raw yolks of 
eggs, and barely half a pint of cold milk ; mix well together, 
and stir over the fire until it boils ; add the cut-up oysters 
and their liquor. Whip four whites of eggs and a pinch of 
salt till very stiff, and put this to the above ; mix well 
together, and fill some httle paper cases which have been 
oiled and dried (china cases can be used if liked) ; put 
a few browned bread-crumbs on the top of each souffle, and a 
tin}^ piece of butter to keep it moist, and bake in a moderate 
oven for about fifteen minutes. 



107. Bissoles of Oysters. 

Prepare two dozen of blanched 03'Sters as directed for 
scolloped oysters (No. Ill), but cutting each oyster into six 
pieces; turn them out upon a dish, where leave them until 
quite cold ; then have the trimmings of some puff paste, 
which roll very thin ; put the pieces of oysters upon it, fold 
them over with the paste, which cut out with a round cutter, 
giving each of the rissoles the shape of a turnover ; egg with 
a paste-brush and throw them into bread-crumbs ; cover well; 
have ready a steAv-pan in Avhich there is some very hot lard, 
and in this fry your rissoles of a light brown colour ; dress 
upon a napkin in a plate ; garnish Avith fried parsley, and 
serve to be handed round the table. 



108. Oysters a la Villeroi. 

Blanch twenty-four large 03'sters in their oAvn liquor for 
two minutes, then drain them ; take some chicken forcemeat, 
spread it over both sides of the oysters, dip them in egg and 
fresh bread-crumbs, then ifry them in hot lard for three 
minutes, and serve with fried parsley. 



186 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

109. Angels on Horseback. 

Cut some little round pieces of bread about a quarter 
of an inch tliick and two inches in diameter; fry them in 
clarified butter to a golden brown, then spread over them a 
puree of anchovies, and on this puree place a little slice of 
crisply fried bacon ; on the bacon put a bearded oyster which 
has been simply warmed in the oven between two plates, with 
a little butter and its liquor, and seasoned with a tiny dust 
of nutmeg ; then sprinkle over the top a little chopped 
parsley, and dish the crusts up in a row ; pour the oyster 
liquor round them, and serve for a savoury or breakfast dish. 
Toast can be used instead of the " crusts." 



110. Bearded Oysters. 

Scoop out the crumb from a small loaf, or some small 
rolls, and place in the cavity oysters stewed with butter and 
mace, and a little of their liquor, with tAvo or three spoonfuls 
of rich milk added as they are done. Place on the top of 
the rolls the pieces sliced off; set them in the oven a few 
minutes, and serve on a dish, hot. 



111. Scolloped Oysters. 

Beard the oysters ; wash in their own liquor ; steep bread- 
crumbs in the latter ; put these with the oysters into scollop 
shells, with a bit of butter and a seasoning of sah, pepper, and 
a little grated nutmeg ; make a compost of bread-crumbs and 
butter, cover, and roast before the fire or in an oven. 



FISH. 187 

112. Pickled Oysters. 

Procure four dozen of the largest sort of oysters, and wash 
them in their Uquor ; wipe them dry, strain the liquor off; 
add to it a teaspoonful of pepper, two blades of mace, three 
tablespoonfuls of white Avine, and four of vinegar, and if 
the liquor is not very salt, you may put one tablespoonful 
of salt ; simmer the oysters for a few minutes in this liquor, 
then put them into small jars and boil up the pickle, skim it, 
and, when cold, pour it over the oysters ; keep them closely 
covered. 



113. Oyster Fritters. 

Having blanched the oysters in their own liquor, soak 
them for some time in vinegar and water, with salt, shredded 
parsley, and small white onions, sliced ; then dry them well, 
dip each in batter, and fry them. 



114. Oysters and Eggs. 

Put into a stew-pan half a pound of fresh butter, some 
parsley, scallions, and morels, shredded small ; season with 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; when the butter is melted, put in 
about four dozen oysters with their liquor, make them quite 
hot, and add to them five or six hard-boiled eggs cut in 
slices ; let the whole simmer for a quarter of an hour, and 
fill the oyster shells with it ; cover each with raspings, and 
colour them in the oven or with a salamander. 



115. Oyster Patties. 

Take twenty- four medium-sized oysters, \n\t them in a 
stew pan Avith their own liquor, and add half a pinch of 



188 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK 

pepper ; cover, and let cook for two minutes. Then take 
half the liquor out, and add to the oysters three-quarters of 
a pint of Bechamel (p. 327), and a very little grated nutmeg ; 
simmer for two minutes, but do not let boil. Take six hot 
patties, fill them up with four oysters each, pour the sauce 
over, and place the covers on top. Serve on a dish with a 
folded napkin. 



116. Oyster Pudding. 

In opening the oysters, take care of the liquor. Strain, 
beard and parboil the fish ; soak and parboil sweetbreads, 
which must be cut in slices and disposed with the oysters in 
layers in a buttered mould, and lightly seasoned with salt, 
pepper, and mace. Put half a teacupful of the liquor, and 
as much gravy, into the mould, and steam for half an hour. 
On turning out the pudding, pour over it a sauce made of a 
teacupful of cream, some more oyster liquor, and a cupful of 
white gravy, warm, but not boiling. 



117. Oyster Pie. 

Open your oysters, being careful to save the liquor: 
strain, beard, and parboil them. Then soak and parboil 
sweetbreads, cut them in slices, and place them and the 
oysters in alternate layers in a dish, Avitli a slight seasoning 
of mace, salt, and pepper, together with half a teacupful of 
gravy and the same quantity of the liquor; cover with 
crust, and bake the pie in a slow oven. On taking it out, 
add a teacupful of cream, some more oyster liquor, and a 
cupful of white gravy, warm, but not boiling. 



FISH. 189 

118. Mock Oysters. 

Boil a calf's sweetbread in salted water. Wash some lower 
oyster sliells in cold water, and on each one lay a little finely 
minced herring — the Dutch herrmg is the best. Cut the 
sweetbread into small pieces, and dip these in bread-crumbs 
seasoned with salt, ample pepper, and a little nutmeg. Lay 
each piece in a shell. Sprinlde sufficient of the crumbs over 
them, with here and there a tiny piece of herring, and put a 
little butter on each. Give them a delicate browning before 
the fire. 



119. Crab Omelette. 

Make your omelette thus : — Break six eggs in a basin, 
season with salt and j^epper, and beat Avith a fork. Put 
tAvo ounces of butter in an oval-shaped pan ; and as soon 
as the butter melts pour in your eggs, stirring lightly with 
a fork, and taking care that the eggs do not catch the pan. 
While " doing," add a due proportion of the finely shredded 
flesh of a crab, with a touch of vinegar, a little more salt, 
and a dust of cayenne. Some cooks add a little minutely 
minced parsley. When your omelette is half set, toss or 
turn it till fully set. Don't let it take a brown colour. It 
must be pale gold. There are two ways of turning out 
the omelette on the dish. Either slant your pan down- 
wards from the handle and roll the omelette downwards 
till it takes the shape of a long oval, and so slide it gently 
on to the dish ; or simply fold over the omelette on both 
sides to the proper elliptical shape. In any case, when 
you beat your eggs before pouring them into the pan, be 
very careful that the oijeration does not take longer than one 
miinute. If you are longer about it your eggs will cook 
" watery " instead of " marrowy." And if anybody tells you 
that either milk or flour should be added to an omelette — 



190 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

there are twenty ways of spelling tlie word, and nobody has 
found the right one — tell him he doesn't know Avhat he is 
talking about. If a female, beg her pardon, and ask her to 
amend the evil of her ways. You should avoid both the one 
and the other as you would avoid strychnine or Greek acid. 

Ohs. — Crab omelette should be served with a rich crayfish 
sauce, coloured with lobster coral. 



120. Lobster Pie. 

Boil two large or three small lobsters, remove the tails, cut 
the fish in two, take out the gut, divide each into four pieces, 
and lay them in a small dish ; then put in the meat of the 
claws, and that Avhich has been picked from the bod}^ Clear 
the latter of the furry parts, and take out the substance ; beat 
the spawn in a mortar, do the same by the shells ; set these 
on to stew with some Avater, two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, 
pepper, salt, and pounded mace, and add a piece of butter 
rolled in flour ; when the goodness of the shells is extracted 
give the Avhole a good boiling, and strain it into the dish, 
strew some crumbs over it, and cover it with a paste. Bake it 
slowly, but take it out as soon as the crust is done. 



121. Lobster a la Braise. 

Pound the meat of a large lobster very fine with two 
ounces of butter, and season it with grated nutmeg, salt, 
and white pepper ; add a little grated bread ; beat up two 
eggs; reserve part to put over the meat, and with the rest 
make the meat up into the form of a lobster. Pound the 
spawn and red part, and spread it over the meat ; bake it a 
quarter of an hour, and just before serving lay over it the 



FISH. 191 

tail and body shell, with the small claws put underneath to 
resemble a lobster. 



122. To Fricassee Lobster. 

Break the shells and carefully take out the meat ; cut it, 
and the red part, or coral, into pieces, adding the spawn; 
thicken with flour and butter some "white stock, with which 
the shells have been boiled ; season it with white pepper, 
mace, and salt ; put in the lobster and heat up. Just 
before serving, add a little lemon-juice, or lemon pickle. The 
stock may be made with the shells onh^, boiled in a pint of 
water, 'with some white pepper, salt, and a little mace, 
thickened with cream, flour, and butter. 



123. Lobster Balls. 

A choice " Greenwich " dish. Chop up fine the meat of 
a lobster, to which add the coral. " Red as a rose " should 
be the amalgamated mince. Add, in the proportion of one- 
fourth, bread crumbled very fine, with a tablespoonful of 
cream, and season with a little anchovy sauce, pepper, a 
" point " of nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon. Heat 
the whole in a stew-pan. Remove it from the fire ; stir in 
the yolk of an egg ; lay it out on a plate to cool, roll it 
into balls, brush it over with egg, dip in bread-crumbs, fry 
in hot fat, and garnish with parsley fried very crisp. No 
sauce. 

124. Lobster a la Soulevard. 

Line small walnut moulds with aspic jelly and cover 
over with a little broAvn chaudfroid sauce (for which I have 
given a recipe on p. 329) ; let them set ; then fill them with 
a puree of lobster, and have ready a little salad garnish. 



192 THE THOROUGR GOOD COOK. 

12o. Lobster Mayonnaise with Aspic Jelly. 

Remove the meat from a fresh lobster ; cut the back 
mto neat pieces — the claws may be left whole or cut up as 
preferred; place the pieces on a dish or tin, and sprinkle 
half of them with choj^ped parsley or tarragon and chervil, 
and the other half with the lobster coral ; lightly cover the 
pieces with liquid aspic jelly, and when it is set, dish up 
the pieces, with the coral and parsley alternating, on a border 
of aspic jelly ; tastefully arrange on the dish some fresh 
crisp lettuce, a little tarragon and chervil, French capers, 
turned olives, filleted anchovies, quarters of hard-boiled eggs, 
and garnish the whole with thick, smooth mayonnaise sauce 
(see p. 338). 



126. Crayfish Pudding. 

Take half a hundred crayfish and boil them in broth ; 
remove the shell from the claws and tail, and suppress that 
of the bodies : dry the former, pound and make a butter of 
it. Cut the tails into dice, put them into a stew-pan with 
the spawn ; take the white of a fowl minced fine, panada of 
cream very dr}-, some roasted onions, some fat livers cut 
in slices and also into dice ; mingle with the butter some 
spoonfuls of rich gravy, fine spices, and salt ; mix all well 
together ; tie up, and cook as white puddings (p. 238). 



127. Broiled Carp with Caper Sauce. 

You must never use fresh-water fish unless it is alive, and 
you kill it yourself. When you have given a few strokes on 
the carp's head with a large knife, thrust your knife under 
the scales, beginning at the tail, and proceed to cut right and 
left. All the scales on one side must come off at once, in 



FISIL 193 

a piece. Tlien do tlie same on the other side, and about the 
belly. When the scales have been taken off properly, and 
none are left, the carp will be white ; then take off the 
gills, without damaging the tongue, which is one of the most 
delicate parts of the fish. ]\[ake a small incision in the neck, 
as if you were going to cut off the head ; make another in 
the belly, but in a contrary direction, and as small as possible. 
Then with your forefinger draAV out the roe, intestines, etc. 
Wash the carp till there is no blood left, and wipe it 
well ; slit both sides of the back, and let it marinade in 
a little oil, salt, and pepper for about an hour, or rather longer. 
Now lay it on a gridiron over a very slow fire, that it may 
have time to be well done through. When broiled on both 
sides, serve it with caper sauce, into which you have put a 
spoonful of essence of anchovies. If the carp has a soft roe 
put it back into the body with a little chopped parsle}', mixed 
with a small lump of fresh butter, salt, pepper ; then sew the 
belly up, for fear the contents shoidd drop out, and broil all 
together. When the carp is done, cut off the thread and 
mask the fish with caper sauce. 

There are plenty of carp at Hampton Court Palace and 
in the fishponds of many country houses, but the fish is not 
much sought after by modern epicures. It has sometimes 
a muddy flavour. However, I have given the recipe for the 
benefit of fresh-water fishermen. 

Roach, dace, tench, perch, and all other fresh-water fish 
are dressed as a kind of " bouillabaisse," or stew, omitting 
the oil and the garlic ; but with plenty of small onions and 
high seasoning to suppress the possibly muddy taste. 



128. Carp au Bleu au Court Bouillon. 

Take a very fine carp, cut off the gills, but keep the 
tongue ; then make as small an opening as possible to 

N 



194 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

emj^ty it, and wash it well till no blood is left. Now boil 
some vinegar, and when boiling-hot pour it over the fish, that 
the scales may crisp. Next wrap the carp up in a cloth, and 
stew it in brown broth. When done, drain it, and serve it 
with anchovy sauce and capers. 



129. To Stew Carp. 

Scale and clean a brace of carp, reserving the liver 
and roe ; pour over the fish in a deep pan a pint of 
vinegar, which may be elder vinegar, if the flavour is 
preferred, with a little mace, three cloves, some salt and 
Jamaica pepper, two onions sliced, a faggot of parsley, basil, 
thyme, and marjoram ; let the fish soak an hour, then 
put them in a stew-pan with the vinegar and other things, 
the liver chopped, a pint of Madeira, and three pints of 
veal stock ; stew them an hour or two, according to their 
size; take them out and put them over a pan of hot 
water to keep warm while a sauce is made thus : — Strain 
the liquor, and add the yolks of three beaten eggs, half 
a pint of cream, a large spoonful of flour and a quarter 
of a pound of butter ; stir it constantly, and just before 
putting it over the carp, squeeze in the juice of a lemon. 
Boil or fry the roe. 

This sauce may also be served with plain boiled carp 
dished in a napkin. 



130. Roast Pike. 

Wash, clean, and scrape off the scales, cut oft" the fins, 
and carefully take out the inside; stuff the fish with the 
crumb of two rolls, a quarter of a pound of butter, pepper, 



FISH. 195 

salt, grated nutmeg, and lemon-jDeel, with an egg to bind 
it ; baste it well with butter. When dished, stick upon 
the back oblong bits of fried toast, and serve with the 
following sauce : — Dissolve an anchovy in some highly 
seasoned gravy, thicken it with butter mixed with flour, 
and a tablespoonful of cream ; add a little coratch, cayenne, 
vinegar, walnut catsup, and so3^ Lobster sauce may also 
be served with roast pike. 



131. Baked Pike. 

Scrape the scales off a large pike, take out the gills, 
and clean it, without breaking the skin. Stuff the fish 
with a forcemeat made of two "handfuls of grated bread, 
one of finely minced suet, some chopped parsley, and a 
little fresh butter, seasoned with pepper, salt, mace, grated 
lemon-peel and nutmeg, pounded all together in a mortar, 
■with two whole eggs. Fasten the tail of the pike into 
its mouth with a skewer, and then dip it, first into a well- 
beaten egg, and then into grated bread, which repeat twice, 
baste it over with butter, and bake it in an oven. If two of 
them are to be served, make one of them of a green colour by 
mixing a quantity of finely minced parsley with the grated 
bread. When the fish is browned, cover it with paper until 
it is done. Serve with a Dutch sauce (p. 332) in a tureen. 



132. Baked Pike. 

{French Warj.) 

Prepare the pike as usual, but, instead of stuffing it with 
the farce prescribed in No. 131, stuff it with forcemeat balls. 
Be careful to bind the head, which is liable to break. Make 
N 2 



196 THE THOEOUGH GOOD COOK 

a marinade— a small quantity "will do, as it is improper that 
pike should be smothered in it : indeed, there will be quite 
enough if it reaches the middle of the fish. Baste the fish fre- 
quently Avith some of the moistening, that it may take a fine 
colour, which is not easily obtained, as you are not using 
crumbs of bread. When it is done, drain it. Take some of 
the marinade to make a butter sauce in this way: — Put a 
good lump of butter and a sjDoonful of flour into a stew-pan : 
moisten with the inarinade, but do not allow the sauce to 
boil. Add to this a spoonful of essence of anchovies and the 
juice of a lemon. Serve the sauce under the fish without 
masking it. If the pike is not of a good colour, you should 
add some fine capers to the sauce : and in this case, mask 
the fish with it. 



133. To Cook Trout. 

This is the method of the woods, and in the woods I 
learned it. The trout must be cooked in the open air 
by a wood fire on the ground, or a charcoal fire in a 
small Boston furnace. Clean and scale your fish ; open, 
clean, and wash the inside ; then take two small skewers, 
sa}' of red cedar wood ; upon each thread a piece of fat 
salt pork, half an inch square ; with these fix the belly 
of the fish asunder ; annex it by the tail to a twig of 
pliant wood, Avhich suffer to bend over the fire so as to bring 
the fish opposite to the blaze ; place a large biscuit or a 
thin slice of dry toast under the drip of the gravy; cook 
quickly. For a two-pound fish ten minutes will sufiice ; dish 
with the biscuit under it, and eat with salt and lemon- 
juice, or with shrimp or lobster sauce, or a dash of Worcester 
or of Harvey's. 



FISH. 197 

134. Haddock Pudding. 

Bone and skin two raw fresh haddocks, pound them in 
a marble mortar, and rub them through a hair sieve ; then put 
the fish again into the mortar with two eggs, a httle parsley, 
and an onion cut small, some white pepper and salt, a slice of 
bread in crumbs, and a quarter of a pound of veal suet, or 
marrow. Pound all well together, put it into a shape and 
boil it an hour. The veal suet, or marrow, may be omitted. 



135. Little Fish Puddings. 

Bone and skin two haddocks : pound them smooth. Boil 
the same quantity of bread and milk as there is of fish, with a 
little parsley, mix it with the fish, and rub through a sieve ; 
put in two eggs and the yolk of a third, some salt and pepper; 
stir all w^ell together, and add the white of the third 
egg well beaten ; roll into the form of small sausages, 
flour these, and boil fifteen minutes in boiling salt and water. 
Have ready the following brown sauce to serve in the dish 
with them : — In a pint and a half of water boil the heads, 
fins, and bones of the haddocks, with a bunch of parsley, 
an onion, salt and pepper, and a bit of toasted bread ; 
when it has boiled nearly an hour, strain it, and thicken it 
with flour and butter ; add a tablespoonful of catsup, half 
a tablespoonful of soy, and a little cayenne. 



136. Dried Fish Pudding. 

Boil the fish, remove the skin, and take out the bones ; 
pound it, and add to it an equal quantity of mashed potatoes 
moistened with good milk and a bit of butter ; put it in 
a dish, smooth it with a knife, stick here and there little 



198 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

bits of butter, and brown it in a Dutch oven; serve it 
Avith egg sauce ; round tlie edge of the dish may be put 
a potato paste. 



137. rish Cake. 

- Take the meat from the bones of any kind of coM fish, 
and put the bones with the head and fins into a steAV-pan with 
a pint of water, a httle salt, pepper, an onion, and a faggot 
of sweet herbs, to stew for gravy. Mince the meat, and 
mix it well with crumbs of bread and cold potatoes (equal 
parts), a little parsley and seasoning. Make into a cake, 
with the white of an egg, or a little butter or milk ; egg 
it over and cover with bread-crumbs, then fry a delicate 
brown. Pour the gravy over, and stew gently fifteen minutes, 
stirring it carefully twice or thrice. Serve hot, and garnish 
with slices of lemon or with parsley. 



138. Salt Fish Pie. 

The thickest part must be chosen, and put in cold Avater 
to soak the night before Avanted ; then boil it Avell, take it 
up, remoA^e the bones and skin, set it on a fish-drainer 
to get cold ; in the meantime, boil four eggs hard, peel 
and slice them very thin ; the same quantity of onions 
sliced thin ; line the bottom of a fish pie-dish Avitli 
fish forcemeat, or a layer of potatoes sliced thin — then 
a layer of onions, then of" fish, and of eggs, and so on till 
the dish is full ; season each layer with a little pepper ; then 
mix a teaspoonful of made mustard, the same of essence 
of anchoAy, a little mushroom catsup in a gill of cold 
Avatq^ place in the dish, on the top an ounce of fresh butter 
broken in bits, cover Avith puff paste, and bake for one 
hour. 



FISE. 199 

139. Salt Fish Pudding. 

One pint of finely chopped cooked salt-fish, eight good- 
sized potatoes, three-fourths of a cupful of milk or cream, 
four eggs, salt, pepper, and two generous tablespoonfuls of 
butter. Pare the potatoes and boil thirty minutes. Drain the 
water from them, and mash very fine ; then mix thoroughly 
with the fish. Add the butter, seasoninsf, and milk or cream. 
Have two of the eggs well beaten, which stir into the mixture, 
and heap this in the dish in which it is to be served. Place 
in the oven for ten minutes. Beat the whites of the two 
remaining eggs to a stiff froth, and add a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of salt ; then put in the yolks. Spread this over 
the fish, return to the oven to brown, and serve. 

A good and cheap dish. Salt fish should not (for hygienic 
reasons) be eaten very often ; and the same, in degree, may be 
said of all salted meats, with the exception of fat bacon. 
But the use which we make at present of salt fish is simply 
ridiculous. We eat it with boiled parsnips and egg sauce on 
Ash Wednesday and Good Friday : and there an end ! 



140. Mock Anchovies. 

To a peck of perfectly fresh sj^rats just taken out of 
the water, and neither washed nor wiped, allow the following 
quantity of ingredients, all to be finely pounded, and well 
mixed together: — Two pounds of common salt, a quarter of a 
pound of bay-salt, four ounces of saltj)etre, two ounces of 
prunella salt, and a small portion of cochineal. Place alter- 
nately in a earthenware pan, till it be full, a layer of the 
sprats and a layer of the prepared mixture ; press the whole 
well down, and cover the ^a,n closely. They will require to 
stand six months before they are used. 



200 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

141. Eedgeree for Breakfast. 

Boil four tablespoonfuls of rice; add any fish previously 
cooked, and nicely picked; cliop up a hard egg, and stir 
it in just before serving. Add some butter, pepper and 
salt, and a touch of mace. If you -wish to vary your kedgeree, 
sprinkle with a little grated Parmesan, or a little curry 
jjowder. 



142, Fried Smelts. 

These delicate little fish, when perfectly fresh, must not 
be washed, but wiped with a clean cloth, and dredged with 
flour, or brushed over with a feather, dipped into the yolk 
of a beaten egg ; they are then rolled in a plate of finely grated 
bread-crumbs, and fried in boiling dripping, or fresh lard. 
They vary in size, and some will be done sooner than 
others. When of a clear golden - brown, take them out 
carefully, and lay them before the fire upon the back of 
a sieve to drain and keep hot. Dish them, heads and tails 
alternately. Garnish with fried parsley. Sauce : Melted 
butter. They may also be broiled. 



143. Broiled Sprats. 

Clean them well ; dredge them slightly with flour, and put 
them in rows upon small skewers run through the heads ; 
or they may be fried like herrings, and served hot. Sauce : 
Melted butter, with a spoonful each of catsup, soy, and 
lemon pickle. 

These are a vulgar dainty, and slightly too oleaginous ; 
but their flavour is dehcious, and in winter they are amazingly 
cheap. 



FISH. 201 

144. Baked Sprats. 

Having rubbed your sprats witli salt and pepper, to every 
two pints of vinegar put one pint of red wine. Dissolve 
a pennyworth of cocliineal, and lay your sprats in a deep 
earthen dish. Pour in as much red wine, vineqar, and 
cochineal, as will cover them. Tie a paper over them, and 
set them in an oven all night. They will keep some time, 
and eat well. 



145. Roast Gurnet. 

Fill the belly of the lish with stuffing, sew it up Avith 
packthread, and truss it with its tail in its mouth ; butter 
a saute-pan, and put two tablespoonfuls of chopped shallots 
and a glass of sherry into it ; egg the fish Avith a paste- 
brush, bread-crumb, and lay a few pieces of butter upon 
it ; then put it in the saute-pan and place it in the oven 
for half an hour, or longer if required. When done, dish it 
without a napkin, tirst drawing out the packthread ; then 
put twelve tablespoonfuls of brown sauce in the saute-pan, 
vrith four ditto of broth, a quarter ditto of sugar, and a half 
ditto of essence of anchovy ; boil this five minutes, pour it 
round the fish, pass the salamander over, and serve. 



146. Skate -with Iiiver Sauce. 

Crimp or cut the skate into pieces, boil, and serve on 
it a sauce made as follows : — Put into a saucepan parsle}^ 
chibbols, mushrooms, a clove of garlic, all finely minced, and 
a little butter; give it a turn or two on the fire, and add 
a good dust of flour, then a bit of butter, capers, and a 
minced anchovy, with the liver of the skate, first boiled and 
bruised, and pepper and salt ; moisten with grav}^ or water, 
and thicken on the fire. Leave out the garlic, if you like. 



202 THE THOBOUGE GOOD COOK. 

147. Skate au Beurra Noir. 

Boil the skate as above, drain it well and dish it with- 
out a naphin. Put half a pound of butter in a stew-pan, 
and set it on the fire till it gets quite black; then fry iu 
it half a handful of parsley (that has been well washed 
and picked) quite crisp, and pour over the fish ; put 
fivx3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, with a little pepjDer and salt, 
into the same stew-pan, boil it a minute, pour over the 
fish, put into the oven five minutes, and serve very hot. 

" Beurre noir " is, litorall}^, " black " butter. It should be 
darker than the " burnt " butter, directions for making which 
I have given you below (No. 148). Black butter is easy to 
make, and is far from expensive ; 3^et, in the course of more 
than fifty years' dining out in London, I have rarely, if ever, 
met with " black" or " burnt" sauce for white fish at middle- 
class English dinner-tables ; or, for the matter of that, at 
aristocratic dinner-tables, either. If you want " beurre noir " 
you must go to a second-rate French or Italian restaurant 
in Soho. Why ? Because the eternal melted butter is still 
the prevailing curse of the English kitchen. " Fifty religions 
and one sauce ! " 



148. Crimped Skate witli Surnt Butter. 

Boil the skate in water, with vinegar and salt added, and a 
few slices of onions. Only let it just boil up. When done, 
serve it with burnt butter made thus : — Boil two good spoon- 
fuls of vinegar, with salt and pepper ; at the same time fry 
some butter till it becomes very brown, and pour it on the 
vinegar. Garnish with fried parsley. 

149. Fresh Sturgeon. 

The best mode of dressing the fish is to cut it in thin slices 
like veal cutlets and broil it. Serve very hot, and eat with a 



FISH. £03 

squeeze of lemon-juice. Great care, however, must be taken 
to cut off the skin before it is broiled, as the oil in the skin, 
if burnt, imparts a disagreeable flavour to the fish. The flesh 
is very fine, and comes nearer to veal, perhaps, than does 
even turtle. I prefer this mode of dressing it to the more 
savoury one of stewing it in rich gravy. 

This "royal" fish is, I believe, occasionally to be met with 
at a few West-End fishmongers', and is sold at a reasonable 
price ; but although I have repeatedly partaken of sturgeon 
(" sterlet ") in Russia, I do not remember to have ever seen it in 
the bill-of-fare of an English dinner-party, public or private. 



204 



SECTION III.— ENTREES. 



In ortliodox French cookery the " piece de resistance " 
— the joint or big poultry — should come immediately after 
the soup and fish. The idea Avas that the guests should 
" take the edge olY their appetites " on the joints and big 
poultry, and subsequently be enabled to trifle at elegant 
leisure with the entrees. The Diike (when Earl) of Fife 
once made a gallant effort to revive the orthodox mode of 
serving; but his guests preferred to devour the entrees and 
trifle with the joint. To the same distinguished nobleman 
belongs the honour of having been the benefactor who pro- 
vided his guests with "elevated soup plates." Only those 
persons who are short-sighted, or who have " two left hands," 
can understand the agony of having to dip your spoon into a 
plate a long Avay down at the risk of horribly staining your 
shirt front. It is all very well to say " Tuck a napkin under 
your chin," but the napkin has an uncomfortable habit of 
slipping off. Lord Fife put his soup-plates on silver plateaus 
on legs, within convenient distance of the lips of his guests. 



1. Forcemeat Balls. 

Cut fine half a pound of veal and the same quantity 
of suet, and beat them in a mortar. Shred fine a few 
sweet herbs, a little dried mace, a small nutmeg grated, a 
little lemon-peel cut very fine, some pepper and salt, and 
the yolks of two eggs. Mix all Avell together, then roll 



ENTREES. 205 

some of it into small balls, and some into long pieces. 
KoU both in flour, and fry them of a nice brown. If they are 
to be used with white sauce, instead of frying them pour a 
little water into a stew-pan, and when it boils put them in, 
and they will be done in a few minutes. 



2. Sausage-Meat (Plain). 

Take any quantity of lean beef or pork, with half the 
quantity of fat, and having freed the lean of every particle 
of skin, smews, and gristle, mince both it and the fat as 
fine as possible, adding for each pound of meat a large 
teaspoonful of pepper and the same quantity of salt; strew 
this on the meat and mix the whole thoroughly together, 
as a stock for further seasoning. 



Another Way. 

To the meat of a leg of pork of about four pounds weight, 
add two pounds of fat from the fore loin; chop both very 
fine ; then add two nutmegs grated, twenty cloves, a teaspoon- 
ful of pounded or grated lemon-peel, two or three blades 
of mace pounded, one ounce of the best salt, and half an 
ounce of black pepper ; mix all together. This sausage-meat 
would be much improved b}^ pounding the meat, and mixing 
it with one-third of its bulk of white bread soaked in 
milk and also pounded, blending the whole together with 
beaten egg. 



3. Batter for Frying. 

Moisten twelve ounces of sifted flour with lukewarm 
w\ater in which you have melted two ounces of butter. 



206 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

Pour ia enough water to form a rather thm paste without 
lumps ; then add enough water to form a batter. It should 
be sufficiently thick to cover whatever is dipped into it, 
but should run freely. Add a little salt, and two whites 
of eggs, well whipped. 



4. Fricassee of Fowl. 

Pick, draw, and singe a fowl; cut it into pieces and 
soak them for one or two hours in cold water, to whiten 
the meat; then drain them. Put into a saucepan a piece 
of butter and a spoonful of flour ; stir it till the butter 
is melted, when moisten it with a glass of water ; add 
salt, pepj^er, grated nutmeg, a sprig of parsley, and chives ; 
put in the fowl, and let it stew three-quarters of an 
hour ; thicken the sauce with the yolks of three eggs, 
and add some lemon-juice, and also a dash of vinegar. 
When two-thirds done, put in some mushrooms, and add, 
if you like, some button onions and bottoms of artichokes 
at the same time that you put in the fowl, A few cray- 
fish may be placed round the dish, as well as some crusts 
and cocks'-combs. To keep the meat white, it is neces- 
sary to rub it with the lemon-juice, and cover it during 
the cooking with some buttered paper placed on the fricassee, 
inside the saucepan. 



5. Fowl, Conntry Captain. 

Cut a fowl in pieces ; shred an onion small and fry it 
brown in butter ; sprinlde the fowl with fine salt and curry- 
powder, and ivj it brown Avith fried butter ; then put it into 
a saucepan with a pint of broth ; stew slowly down to a half, 
and serve with rice. 



ENTBEES. 207 

6. Braised Fowl. 

Bone the breast, and fill it with forcemeat. Lay the 
bones and the other poultry trimmings in a stew-pan, 
and the fowl on them. Put to them an onion, a bundle 
of herbs, three blades of mace, a pint of stock, and a glass 
of sherry. Mask the fowl with slices of bacon, and sprinkle 
with white pepper; cover the whole close, and put it on 
a slow stove for an hour. Then take it up; strain the 
braise, carefully skim off the fat, and set it on to boil 
very quickly to a glaze, which put over the fowl with a 
brush. Before glazing, put the fowl into the oven for a 
few minutes, to give a little colour. If you are an abstainer, 
leave out the sherry; but practically there is no harm 
whatever in using a little \vine in cookery. All the alcohol 
evaporates in boiling, and only the flavour remains. 



•Chickens with Mac^doine of Spring Koots. 

Prepare for boiling two fat chickens of an equal size, and 
rub the breasts over with butter ; slice a lemon without the 
rind, lay a few pieces on the breasts of the chickens, and 
completely cover them with slices of fat bacon, tied closely 
round ; place them in a stew-pan, fill up with poele ; let them 
boil for half an hour ; when you dish them, shake the water 
out and wipe off the fat. They should be served with a 
delicate Macedoine, made thus : — Boil some very young 
carrots, cut them of a neat shape ; also some turnips, cut the 
same; a few French beans, cut; and some asparagus points 
boiled quite green ; have boiling a very clear rich Spanish 
sauce, and a few minutes before you serve the chickens throw 
these roots into the sauce ; let them boil up, then skim the 
sauce, and add a little sugar and salt. 



208 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

8. Epigram of Chicken Cutlets (Epigram de Poiilet). 

V\hy " Epigram " I know not. Take the fillets out of a 
chicken, flatten and pare them neatly, remove small bones 
of the pinions, scrape it clean and force it into the pointed 
end of the fillets ; lay them on the dresser and shake a 
little pepper and salt over both sides, brush them over with 
the yolk of egg, dip them into bread-crumbs, and then 
into clarified butter, and again lightly into bread-crumbs ; 
they are to be broiled in a double gridiron, but not till 
the last moment. Cut the inside fillets into scollops, place 
them on a saute-pan, fty as lightly as possible, and put 
them into a Bechamel sauce (p. 327), Avith some mushrooms 
which have been passed ; dish the cutlets, and serve the 
scollops in the centre. 



9. Chicken in Savoury Jelly. 

Choose a ver}' small spring chicken, which is to be 
boiled as white as possible, then put it away to get cold ; 
melt some aspic jelly, pour a little into a mould that will 
just hold the chicken, cut some garniture with whites of 
hard-boiled eggs and truffles, decorate the bottom, set the 
mould on ice, and add by degrees a little aspic to set the 
decoration ; wdien it is perfectly secure, lay in the chicken, 
the breast downwards, and pour a little more aspic, which 
should not be warm, only just in a liquid state ; continue 
pouring in the aspic at intervals till it comes up level with 
the back of the chicken ; keep the mould surrounded with 
ice till it is to be dished, then dip it in hot water and 
turn it out on the dish. 



10. Chicken Patties with Puree a la Reine. 

Take eight or ten dariole moulds and line them with 
paste, fill them Avith trimmings of paste, cut tops of the 



ENTREES. 209 

same paste, rub them over with the yolks of eggs, bake 
them and then take out the inside. Cut off all the white 
meat from two roasted fowls, pound in a mortar until it 
can be passed though a fine hair-sieve ; then reduce some 
Bechamel, or white sauce, which should be well flavoured with 
mushrooms, mix the chickening with the sauce, and season 
it before you fill the patties. Do not suffer the puree to boil, 
which would totally spoil it. 



11. Compdte of Quails. 

Six quails will be required for this entree. Truss them 
in the same way as chickens for boiling; place them in a j<!f 
stew-pan sufficiently large to hold them ; put in a piece of 
butter, a small bunch of green onions, a little parsley, a 
sprig of marjoram, a few cloves, and a leaf of mace ; set 
the stew-pan over the stove for ten minutes, throw in a 
tablespoonful of flour, and shake it about in the pan 
until mixed ; add as much good broth as Avill cover 
the birds, and keep moving the stew-pan over the stove 
until the sauce boils ; then remove it to the corner, and 
throw in some parings of mushrooms, and a glass of 
Madeira wine ; try the birds occasionally, and when they 
are tender put them into a clean stew-pan, and should the 
sauce not be thick enough reduce it a little more ; skim 
off all the grease, and pass it through a tammy to the 
quails ; have ready some button mushrooms and some small 
forcemeat balls, throw them in and give the whole a boil 
up ; dish the quails, and pour the sauce over them. For 
garnish you may put between each quail a piece of bread 
cut and fried, or a small pudding of forcemeat. 



210 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

12 Scollops of Babbits. 

Take three rabbits (or any number, according to the 
number of guests : this recipe will serve as well for one as for 
six rabbits) ; detach the fillets, tear off the sinews ; then 
scollop the fillets, keeping your knife on a slope ; flatten 
them with the handle of your knife ; put the scollops 
into a saut6-pan with some clarified butter; have ready 
some truffles peeled and cut into slices of the same size 
as the scollops ; mix them with the rabbits in the butter, 
with salt and pepper. " Toss " the whole a little while before 
dinner-time, drain the butter, and put the scollops into 
the sauce, in order that the trufiies may give their flavour 
to it, and likewise to the meat. You ma}'- procure preserved 
truffles in bottles at any good Italian warehouse ; still, I am 
rather chary of prescribing them. Unless they are forwarded 
directly from abroad, and cased in the earth from which they 
have been dug, they rarely possess any distinctive flavour. 
Garnish the edges of the dish with sippets. 



13. "Kickshaws" of Rabbit, Italian Sauce. 

Roast lightly three or four young rabbits, and pick off" 
all the white meat; mince it very finely with a sharp 
knife, that it may not be ragged ; reduce four spoonfuls of 
white sauce with a spoonful of cream, season it with a little 
cayenne pepper and salt ; throw in the rabbit while the 
sauce is hot, set it to cool, then beat up six yolks of eggs 
with a teaspoonful of cream ; pass the eggs through a 
colander to the rabbit, and mix thoroughly; butter eight 
or ten small moulds, and put a piece of white paper at the 
bottom of each ; fill each mould with mince, and half an 
hour before dinner set them in a stew-pan; pour boiling 
water round them, about half the height of the mould, 



ENTREES. 211 

cover the stew-pan close, set it over a stove, and put some 
lighted charcoal on the cover; when done, turn the "kick- 
shaws " on the dish, and put over them a clear brown Italian 
sauce. 

Why " kickshaws " ? you may ask. Well ; turn to Justice 
Shallow's instructions to William the cook in the second part 
of " King Henry IV." (Act Y., Scene 1), and you will see that 
at any rate the word is an old one. French cooks call the 
above dish " Paupetons de Lapereau," an exceptionally com- 
manding phrase ; but I prefer " kickshaws," which is at least 
Shakespearian, although it is manifestly a corruption of the 
French quelque chose. 

14. Babliit Pudding. 

Roast a young rabbit ; take off the flesh and pick out the 
sinews ; hash it Avith the liver very fine. Break the bones and 
put them into a stew-pan, moisten with rich stock ; let it boil 
to draw the flavour, and use for the panada. Pound the 
meat and panada together; add a third of the bulk of 
butter, that is to say use an equal part of the three elements ; 
add also fine minced onions that have been stewed in gravy, 
six raw yolks of eggs, reduced cold cream, as much as is 
necessary; bring the whole to the consistency of pudding. 
Before finishing add fine spices, salt, and nutmeg. 



15. Rabbit Galantine. 

Bone a rabbit entirely (except the head) ; take away the 
meat of the thick part of the thighs ; lard with seasoned 
bacon tips ; mince the meat taken off with the fillets of two 
other rabbits ; take an equal quantity of bacon, minced, 
mix the minces together, add salt, pepper, and pounded 
spice ; lay the rabbit open on a cloth ; season, and 
spread a layer of the forcemeat all over it ; on this place 
o 2 



212 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

red tongue and bacon tips, in small pieces ; proceed 
thus alternately until the rabbit is quite full ; then form 
it as well as you can ; tie slices of bacon all over it, wrap 
it in the cloth, and tie it again ; lay slices of bacon in a 
braising-pan, put in the rabbit, a knuckle of veal, the bones 
of the rabbit, two carrots, three onions (one stuck with 
eloves), two bay-leaves, a little thyme, parsley, scallions, 
half a bottle of white wine, a ladleful of stock, and a little 
salt; set the pan on the fire to simmer for two hours, 
then remove from the fire, and in half an hour's time care- 
fully withdraw the rabbit. When quite cold, take it out 
of the cloth, glaze and serve it. — A superb dish, but pretty 
dear. 



16. Turban of Fillets of Rabbits. 

Take four young rabbits ; detach the fillets, also the inside 
fillets ; the eight large ones should be neatly larded with 
bacon, and the eight smaller garnished with truffles, according 
to fancy, or thus : — Lay them on the table, and with a very 
sharp knife make slanting incisions from one end to the 
other ; then take a round cutter the width of the fillet, and 
scoop some pieces out of large truffles, and with a sharp 
knife slice them as thin as possible ; place in each incision a 
round piece of truffle, and press the flesh close — the truffle 
will then remain in place. Make a farce of the flesh of the 
legs of the rabbit ; then cut a piece of bread for the centre 
of the dish, cover the bread Avith sHces of fat bacon — it will 
be more easily removed, when the turban is done, if the 
bread is divided into four pieces ; raise the farce equally 
round the bread on the dish it is to be served on, form it into 
the shape of a turban, then place the eight large fillets in a 
slanting form all round the turban, equally divided, and 
between each a small fillet Avith truflies; press them lightly 
to make them secure, cover the whole with layers of bacon 



ENTREES. 213 

and thin white paper, and tie string round the paper ; then 
bake in an oven, not too hot. When you think the farce is 
sufficiently set, remove the bread which is inside (before you 
take off the bacon) by taking out one quarter at a time, and 
then take off the outside covering ; glaze the fillets, and 
insert a ragout of cocks'-combs, truffles, and mushrooms in 
the opening where the bread was taken out. 



17. Young Babbits in Curl Papers. 

Take off the legs of tender young rabbits, and put them 
to soak some hours with parsley, chives, mushrooms, half 
a clove of garlic, the whole chopped fine and mixed 
Avith salt, pepper, a little tarragon vinegar, and a table- 
spoonful of Lucca oil; Avrap up each piece with a portion 
of this seasoning, and a small slice of bacon, in white 
paper, well buttered inside ; broil them over a gentle fire, 
and serve them quite hot in the paper. If you are 
squeamish touching oil and garlic, leave out those ingre- 
dients, but season a little more highly. 



18. Galantine of Turkey. 

Bone the turkey, draw the skin of the legs and wings 
inside ; spread the boned bird fiat upon the table ; season 
with pepper and salt and a little aromatic spice : spread 
a layer of sausage - meat an inch thick upon this, add 
some long squares of red tongue or ham, some small black 
truffles, and a few pistachio kernels; repeat the sausage- 
meat, the seasoning, and the tongue, etc. ; and having 
sufficiently filled up the galantine, sew it up with twine, 
roll it in a buttered napkin, fasten the ends with string, 



214 ■ THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

and set it to braise in some well-seasoned veal and calf's- 
foot stock for about an hour and a half. When done, the 
galantine must be allowed to become partially cold in its own 
stock, in order that it may thus preserve its mellowness 
and flavour. It must then be put in press betAveen dishes, 
with a fourteen-pound weight on the top, and when quite 
cold, removed from the napkin ; lastly, glaze it, and the 
string taken out, place it on its dish, and ornament it with 
aspic jelly. 



19. Gratin of Pigeon h. la. P^rigord. 

Bone six small pigeons ; cut a piece of bread about 
two inches high, surround it with a thin slice of fat bacon, 
then cover it with forcemeat, sloping off to the edge of the 
dish ; season the pigeons with pepper and salt, fill them with 
the stuffing, so as to give them their original shape ; place 
them with the breasts upwards on the forcemeat, put a little 
more stuffing on the birds, so as to leave the breasts only 
bare ; cover these with a thin slice of fat bacon, and bake 
in a moderately heated oven for about three-quarters of 
an hour. When done, take out the bread, and with a napkin 
soak up all the fat; filling the cavity with whole truffles, 
mushrooms, and Spanish sauce. 



20. Potted Hare. 

Cut up the hare into joints or pieces, and set them aside 
on a plate : next, cut up tAvo pounds of streaky bacon into 
square piccss about the size of walnuts, and fry these in a 
stew-pan ; add the pieces of hare, and fry them with the 
bacon ; add also a handful of inushrooms, two bay-leaves, some 



ENTBEES. : 215. 

thyme, basil, and winter savoury, two cloves of garlic, twenty 
cloves, three blades of mace, a teaspoonful of black pepper- 
corns, a tablespoonful of salt, a pint of sherry (strict abstainers 
may leave out the wine), and a pinch of Nepaul ; put on the lid, 
and set all to simmer very gently in the oven for an hour and a 
half The hare must then be strained from its liquor ; all the 
meat removed from the bones, chopped, and pounded ; all the 
grease and bacon added and the whole pounded into a smooth 
pulp, then rubbed through a w^ire-sieve on to a dish, and 
afterwards put into a large kitchen pan to be mixed up with 
the liquor from the hare. If the liquor or stock from the 
hare measures more than a pint, it should be boiled down to 
that quantity, and about four ounces of good glaze added. 
Fill some ordinary preserving pie pans with the preparation, 
cover them over with common flour and water paste ; set the 
pans in deep saute-pans, or baking-sheets, with a little water 
at the bottom, and put them to bake in an oven of moderate 
heat for about an hour. They must now be taken out, the 
meat pressed down level with a spoon, and some clarified butter 
or lard poured over the top in sufficient quantity to cover the 
meat. As soon as they become cold, let the pans be covered 
with strong Avhite paper, moistened on one side with white 
of egg ; and when perfectly dry, oil the surface of the paper 
over with a brush and put the potted hare in a very cool 
place, to be Ivcpt for use as occasion requires. 



21. Venison Fie d, I'Americaine. 

Have three pounds of venison cut into small squares ; place 
them in a saucepan with an ounce of butter ; brown them 
well for six minutes, then add one tablespoonful of flour; 
stir well, and moisten with a quart of white broth; throw 
in six small glazed white onions, [a bouquet, two pinches 



216 THE THOROUGH OOOD COOK. 

of salt, one pinch of pepper, and the third of a pinch of 
nutmeg. Let cook on the stove for forty-five minutes with 
the hd on, and when done, lay the stew in a deep dish ; 
cover with a good pie-crust, carefully wetting the edges ; egg 
the surface with beaten egg, make two incisions on each 
side and a small hole in the centre, then bake in the oven 
for forty minutes. Prepare a dish with a folded napkin, lay 
upon this the dish containing the pie, and serve cold. 



22. Sweetbread Fie. 

Lay a puff paste, half an inch thick, at the bottom of a 
dish, and forcemeat round the sides. Cut the sweetbreads in 
pieces according to the size of the pie, place them in first, 
then some artichoke bottoms cut into four pieces each ; 
next some cocks'-combs and morels, tops of asparagus, and 
fresh mushrooms, yolks of hard eggs, and forcemeat balls. 
Season the whole with pepper and salt. Put in plenty of 
water, cover the pie, and bake it two hours. On taking it out, 
pour in some rich veal gravy, thickened with cream and flour. 



23. Scollops of Sweetbreads with Green Feas. 

Take four sweetbreads, let them disgorge, and blanch 
them thoroughly. Next cut them into scollops, as large as 
possible. Cover them in a frying-pan with clarified butter 
and a little salt. A quarter of an hour before you send 
up, " toss " them over a stove with a clear fire, turn them 
round, and when done, drain the butter, and put a little 
glaze into the saute-pan. Keep stirring the sweetbreads 
in the glaze ; dish them in a circle, and send up the 
peas in the middle. 



ENTREES. 217 

When you have some remains of sweetbreads, cut them 
into scollops, make them hot in a little light glaze, and 
after having dished them in circular form cover them with 
the peas. Scollops of sweetbreads are easier to dress when 
3'ou put between them a slice of fried bread, cut round, 
and the green peas in the middle ; without the fried bread 
they will not keep the shape in which you have dished 
them. 



24. Scollops of Sweetbreads in Cases. 

Let the sweetbreads disgorge and be blanched. When 
they have been lying for a time in cold water, make some 
small scollops of them, and mix them with a preparation 
which is to be made in the following way : — Take half a pint 
of nuishrooms, four or five shallots, a little parsley, and 
chop the whole very fine, separately. Next rasp a little fat 
bacon, to which add a small lump of fresh butter. Stew 
the herbs over a slow fire, and put the scollops with them, 
seasoned with salt, pepper, and a little pounded spice. When 
done, drain all the fat ; put the scollops into small paper 
cases fried in butter, and add a liberal amount of herb 
seasoning. Then strew over them a few crumbs of bread 
fried in butter. Lay the paper cases for a moment in the 
oven, and when you are going to serve up, pour into each 
of them a little thin brown gravy, and squeeze over the juice 
of a lemon ; drain off all the fat. 



25. Sweetbreads "Dauphin" Fashion. 

Select good-sized sweetbreads. Pare off the sinews and 
the fat ; throw them into warm water to draw out the 
blood, and blanch. When thoroughly disgorged, blanch them 
again a little in boiling water to make them firm, in order 



218 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

to lard them with great facility. As soon as they are 
larded, rub the inside of a stew-pan all over with butter ; 
cover this with thin slices of fat bacon ; lay the sweet- 
breads on the bacon ; sprinkle with salt, and braise them 
with plenty of red-hot ashes on the top of the pan, and 
very little fire beneath. When they are of a fine brown, 
cover them with a roimd of paper, and lessen the fire on 
the top. Being large, they will require three-quarters of 
an hour to do. If they are too much done, they become 
soft, and are not so palatable. When properly cooked, 
drain them, and place them in a pan with some glaze, 
and the bacon beneath. Leave them in the glaze till 
dinner-time ; then drain them afresh, and glaze them of 
a fine brown. Serve them up with sorrel or endive sauce. 



26. Red Ox Tongue Ck l':Scarlate). 

Wash the tongue thoroughly, and leave it to soak during 
two days, after which rub it with saltpetre and a little 
bro-wTQ sugar ; season it with whole pej^per, and add a little 
cold salted water; leave it to soak in this four days, taking 
care to turn it every day ; then put it on to boil in water, 
to which you may add a little of the brine, an onion, a 
carrot, a bay-leaf, and a little parsley. When the tongue 
is done, skin it, place it in a deep dish, and pour the 
liquor over it, after passing the latter through the tammy. 
The tongue is of a better flavour when left to get cold in 
the gravy. 

27. Tongues with Stewed Endive. 

Take sheeps' tongues that have been slightly pickled ; boil 
them till tender, and remove the skin ; for the centre of the 
dish you are to serve them in cut a piece of bread in the form 



ENTREES. 219 

of a vase, which is to be fried of a nice colour ; then make it 
firm on the dish by a little paste of flour and white of egg 
mixed, of which you put a little between the bread and the 
dish, and set it over the stove to fix the bread ; have ready 
fried some bread, cut in the shape of cocks'-combs, and secure 
these also in the same way round the dish, leaving room 
between each for a tongue, the point of which is to rest 
upon the bread in the centre of the dish. Glaze the tongues, 
and serve a puree of endives round them. 



28. Minced Beef. 

Take some cold roasted fillet of beef; cut out all the 
fat and suet, then chop the meat as fine as possible, and 
put it into a reduced Spanish sauce (p. 347) made boiling 
hot ; when ready to serve, add a bit of butter. Serve your 
mince with soft-boiled eggs round it, or with pieces of toasted 
bread. 



29. Minced Beef with Cucumbers. 

Take a rump steak undressed, and with a sharp 
knife shred it very fine. Put it into a stew-pan with a 
little clarified butter and some salt; stir it over a quick 
fire for some minutes, then add half a pint of beef 
gravy; let it boil gently till it becomes of a proper 
thickness. Cut two large cucumbers in slices the thick- 
ness of a crown piece, and put them into a stew-pan with 
an onion sliced, some clarified butter, a little vinegar, a 
lump of sugar, and fry them of a bright brown colour ; add 
some plain sauce ; let simmer gently till sufticiently done ; 
then lay the mince in the dish, and proceed to pour the 
cucumber over it. You may, if you please, thicken the 



220 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

sauce with a little flour and butter ; and add the squeeze 
of a lemon just before serving. 



30. Chartreuse with Beef Palates. 

"Take a plain copper mould, butter it, and line it with 
paper well buttered; then prepare a sufficient quantity of 
carrots and turnips, by boiling them separately till tender, 
in salt and water, with a little white veal fat or butter, 
or slices of fat bacon. Take a round vegetable scoop, cut 
as many pieces as you can, then with your knife cut them 
in round fillets ; lay a row of the carrots one over the other 
round the mould ; then a row of the turnips, again carrots, 
and so on, till you arrive three-parts up the mould. Cut 
some beef palates that have been dressed into round pieces, 
soak them in glaze, and put them at the bottom of the 
mould, one over the other. Secure the vegetables by 
spreading veal forcemeat lightly on them ; steam the mould 
in boiling water for half an hour, then turn it over on the 
dish, remove the mould and paper, and with a paste-brush 
drop some thin glaze over the vegetables. When dished, 
pour round a Spanish sauce (p. 847). When the roots are 
young, this is by far the best way to make a Chartreuse. 



31. Minced Mutton. 

This is a favourite mode of disposing of cold mutton, 
especially if it should happen to be underdone. Cut it 
into very small pieces, and mince. Take the bones and put 
them in a stew-pan with the trimmings ; cover them with 
water, put in a faggot of thyme, parsley, whole pepper, 
and allspice ; cover down and simmer for three-quarters 
of an hour. While the bones are stewing, fry an onion 



ENTREES. 221 

brown in a little butter and flour ; put this into the stew- 
pan with the gravy, stew gently twenty minutes, and strain ; 
lay the mince in the stew-pan, pour over it the strained 
grav}' ; add a dessertspoonful of walnut catsup, or any pre- 
ferred sauce, with seasoning ; simmer until the meat is hot 
through. Serve with sippets round the dish, and with a 
poached egg in the centre of the mince, if you like. 



32, Bacon Fraise. 

Beat eight eggs into a batter, with a little cream and flour ; 
fry thin slices of bacon, and dip them in it ; then lay them 
in a frying-pan, and pour a little batter over them ; when 
one side is done, turn and pour more butter over them. 
When both sides are of a good colour, lay them on a dish 
and serve hot. 



33. Beans and Bacon. 

Windsor beans should be served young, and fresh 
gathered. Boil them in salt and water ; when done, drain 
them, and lay the bacon over the beans without any sauce. 
The bacon should be fat, and nicely boiled. Send up 
separately, in a sauce-boat, chopped parsley in melted 
butter. 

Beans are likewise an excellent garnish to a ham ; serve 
them plain around it. Duffin beans are a very good sub- 
stitute for Windsor, only skin them before boiling. 



34. Feas and Bacon. 

Cut half a pound of bacon or ham into dice, and parboil 
them ; put some butter into a saucepan, and fry the bacon 



222 THE THOEOUGH GOOD COOK. 

in it to a brown colour. Put a quart of green peas into 
a deep dish, with a piece of butter the size of a wahiut ; 
roll them with the hand, and pour over them some water, 
in which leave them for twenty minutes, that they may 
become tender; drain them in a colander, put them into 
a stew-pan, and gently cook them on the fire. While very 
green, moisten them with broth gravy, and add the pieces 
of bacon or ham, a bunch of parsley and chives ; let them 
just boil together, and then finish the cooking over a mild 
fire ; skim off the fat, put in a little sugar if they be too 
salt, and serve. Or the peas may be dressed much more 
simply by stewing the bacon in the butter, adding the peas, 
moistening them with water, and letting them cook with 
a bunch of herbs and seasoning. 



35. York Ham with Spinach (Jambon d'Yorck auz 
:^pinards). 

Scrape and trim the ham, and put it in a large pan 
or pot with enough cold water to make it swim. Add a 
couple of carrots, onions, celery, a dozen cloves, mace, 
thyme, and bay-leaves, and boil the ham very slowly 
indeed for about four or five hours, according to size and 
weight; and when it is done, allow it to become cold in 
its own liquor. When cold, remove the rind by gently 
slipping the ends of the fingers of both hands under the 
skin of the round, thick end of the ham, and by this 
means detach it gradually Avithout displacing any of the 
fat. Trim the surface of the fat smoothly with a knife. 
When wanted hot, place it in a baking-dish covered with 
a greased paper ; add just enough of its own liquor to 
reach up to the edge of the fat, bake it for about half an 
hour, glaze, and garnish with spinach. 



ENTREES. 223 

Some cooks are allowed to boil the ham in champagne. 
This process is to me simply senseless. The alcohol neces- 
sarily evaporates in the boiling, and the saccharine residuum 
may be easily (and cheaply) replaced by a little sugar. 
There is no harm, however, in serving a champagne sauce 
Avith the dish. 



36. Veal and Ham Fatties 

Are prepared by chopping small six ounces of lean dressed 
veal, three of ham ; put this into a stew-pan, with an ounce 
of butter rolled in flour, half a gill of cream, and the same 
quantity of veal stock, a little grated nutmeg and lemon-peel, 
some cayenne pepper and salt, a spoonful of the essence 
of ham, and lemon-juice. Stir the whole over the fire some 
time, and then make the patties as before directed (p. 208). 
The white meat of the breasts of chickens or fowls may be 
substituted for the veal. 



37. Veal and Ham Fie. 

Take two pounds of veal cutlets, divide them into small 
pieces, and season with pepper and salt. Then take a pound 
of raw or dressed ham, cut it into slices. Lay both alternately 
in the dish, and put some forcemeat or sausage meat over 
all, with stewed mushrooms, the yolks of three hard eggs, 
and a glass of Avater. The best end of a neck of veal cut 
into chops is the most approved part for a pie. 



38. Raised Ham Fie. 

Lay a small ham to soak four or five hours, then Avash and 
scrape it Avell ; cut off the knuckle, and boil it half an hour. 



224 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

Take it up and trim it neatly, clear the rind, and put it into 
a stew-pan with a pint of Marsala or sherry, and a sufficient 
quantity of veal stock to cover it. Stew for two hours, or 
until it is three parts done, then take it out and set it to cool. 
Raise a crust large enough to receive the ham, round which 
put some forcemeat, and bake it in a slow oven. When done, 
remove the cover, glaze the top, and pour in a sauce made 
as follows : — Take the liquor the ham was stewed in, skim it 
clear, thicken it with flour and butter, add a Uttle browning 
and some cayenne pepper. 



S9. Hottentot Fie. 

Bone two calf's feet; boil and chop small some chitter- 
lings ; take two chicken, cut them up as for eating ; put 
all into a stew-pan, with two sweetbreads, a quart of veal 
gravy, half an ounce of morels, cayenne pepper, and salt ; 
stew over a gentle fire for an hour, then add six or eight 
forcemeat balls that have been boiled, and the yolks of four 
hard eggs ; lay the whole in a good raised crust, previously 
baked for the purpose. Strew over the top some green jDcas 
or asparagus tops, and send to table without a cover. 



40. Lamb and Fork Chops 

Are both fried in the same manner — either plain, or egged, 
rolled in bread-crumbs, and, when dished, garnished with 
slices of lemon or crisped parsley. I have dealt with chops 
elsewhere (see pp. 300-1), and will only say in this place 
that, like steaks and cutlets, they should be neatly trimmed 
Avhen they are not cut into a good shape. 



EXTEEE.^: 225 

41. Veal Cutlets. 

Veal cutlets should be cut from the neck m the same 
shape as mutton cutlets — as many cutlets as there are guests, 
but let them be very small. They must be prettily larded 
on one side, like a sweetbread ; braise them — don't fry them 
— until they have become quite tender; glaze lightly, and 
salamander to the colour of old gold. Have ready boiled a 
pint of green peas (fresh ones, if you can afford them ; but 
peas are capitally preserved nowadays) ; put them in a stew- 
pan with two pats of butter, a little salt, and, if your guests 
are accustomed to Continental cookery, a teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar. When boiled, finish with an '•' alliance " of one 
yolk of egg mixed with a tablespoonful of cream ; pour into 
the dish, and dress the cutlets neatly in an oval ring. You 
may have a little mould of mashed potatoes, if you like, in 
the middle. 

These tasty cutlets, braised and larded, may be served 
quite as advantageously with " sauce a la jardiniere," with 
turnips browned, with asparagus tips, with cucumbers, or 
with tomatoes. The plain English way is to fry them in 
egg and bread-crumbs, with a slice of bacon to each in little 
rolls, and the dish is served with brown sauce. 



42. Fork Cutlets and Tomato Sauce. 

Take a neck of pork — it should be young meat, with 
small bones — flatten the cutlets, and trim them, lay them 
on the table, and season them on both sides with pepper 
and salt. Clarify some fresh butter, and mix a little of it 
with two yolks of eggs ; dip the cutlets in, one at a time,» 
and then into bread-crumbs, until they are all done ; pour 
the remainder of the clarified butter into a cutlet-pan, and 
shape the cutlets with a knife ; wipe the bone free from 
p 



226 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

crumbs, and lay tliem on the saiite-pan, the curve of each 
bone the same ^vixy. At dinner-time fry them over a brisk 
fire, and serve with tomato sauce. 



43. Cutlets in Aspic. 

Braise the neck of mutton or lamb whole, then set it 
aside to cool. When quite cold cut oft' the cutlets, trim 
neatly, and glaze. Have ready some nicely-made aspic, set 
them in it in a saute-pan, shape them with a cutter, and 
when set, dish with a Macedoine of vegetables. 



44. Queen Blanche Stew. 

Cut as much as is wanted of nmtton in pieces the size 
of walnuts, wash and place them in a steAv-pan with a little 
salt and pepper ; cover them with water, put on a slow tire, 
and let boil for about twenty minutes ; skim well ; add 
half a pint of chick-peas, previously scalded in water, two 
or three onions sliced, and a pint of milk or cream, and 
let it simmer until it forms a nice thick gravy at the bottom 
of the pan, and the meat and peas are tender ; then dish it 
up with two or three slices of toasted bread on the bottom 
of the dish, and serve whilst hot. 

This is really a fricassee, and the recipe is applicable to 
veal, rabbit, and poultry. 



45. Kidneys Stewed. 

Cut a fresh ox kidney into slices the eighth of an mch 
in thickness ; soak them for a few minutes in lukewarm 
water, drain and dry them thoroughly in a cloth. Season 



EKTEEES. 227 

tliem with a little pepper, dredge flour thickly over them, 
and fry them in three ounces of hot butter, until they are 
brightly browned. Pour the third of a pint of boiling water 
or stock over them, and add a dessertspoonful of vinegar in 
which onions have been pickled, or, if this is not at hand, 
plain vinegar or lemon-juice ; a finely minced shallot, a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little salt and cayenne. 
Thicken the gravy before serving, and garnish with fried 
parsley. Half a teaspoonful of mixed mustard may be 
stirred into the sauce before it is taken from the tire, if this 
is liked. The stewdng will take about two hours. Sheep's 
Ividneys can be cooked in the same manner. 



46. Rissoles. 

Take half a pound of puft' paste, give it three turns or 
folds, roll it out to the thickness of a penny piece. Place 
small balls of forcemeat at distances of about two inches 
from each other ; moisten the paste round these with a 
brush dipped in water ; fold the flap of the front part of 
the paste over the balls ; press all round them with the edge 
of the thumb, or dot them wdth the blunt end of a thin 
pencil; cut them out with a fluted round tin cutter, and, as 
you do so, place them upon a floured dish. Having thus 
cut out a sufficient number for your purpose, fry them in 
hot fat, dish them up with crisp fried parsley, on a napkin, 
and serve hot. 

Another Way. 

Pick from the bones the flesh of any kind of cold poultry, 
iind skin it ; weigh it, and add one-third of grated bread- 
crumbs, a little cold melted butter, a small onion (previously 
boiled and finely minced), pepper, salt, and the yolks of two 
■eggs, to bind it together. Roll out thin some trimmings of 
p 2 



228 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

puff paste ; cut it in two-inch square pieces ; put in tlie 
middle of eacli a teaspoonful of the mince ; fold the paste over 
it, and shape it with a cutter. Egg the shapes, dip them in 
bread-crumbs, and fry them in lard. Serve dry, garnish Avith 
fried parsle}^ and take care that the edges be perfectly closed. 
Rissoles are made of every kind of butchers' meat, poultry, 
game, and slicll-tish, nicely minced and seasoned. 



47. Calf's Head, Plain Boiled. 

Take a whole or half a head. Scald it well, and let it 
soak for an hour or two in cold water. Then sinmier it for 
an hour and a half in Avater enough to make it swim, and 
with a faggot of pot-herbs. Serve it, with Maitre d'Hotel 
sauce — which is simply our butter sauce with a little blanched 
parsley in it — poured over. If you cut up the head into neat 
little pieces of two or three inches square and fry in egg and 
bread-crumbs, I think you will find it a pleasant change, 
and most dis'estible. 



48. Entree of Boiled Lamb. 

{A Modern Greek Di,sli.) 

First prepare a broth made from the intestines of an 
Easter lamb, adding, if you like, a little gravy beef and 
a few herbs. Boil your lamb, and before serving bring the 
broth to boiling-point, and throw in three or four eggs 
which have been previously well beaten up Avith a whisk ; 
add the juice of a lemon. ThroAV this over the lamb, and 
decorate Avith sorrel and slices of lemon. 



ENrEEES. 229 

49. Vol-au-Vent of Lambs' Tails. 

Cut out of puff-paste a " vol-au-vent " to correspond with 
the chartreuse, bake it of a nice colour, and take out the 
inside (the soft part). Have scalded half a dozen lambs' tails, 
cut them about an inch in length, put them into a stew-pan, 
with a bunch of green onions, parsley, a blade of mace, and 
a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, or white fat of veal ; 
cover them with boiling water, and let them stew till quite 
tender; then take them upon a napkin, wipe all the grease 
from them, and put them into a little clear Bechamel (p. 327) ; 
give them a boil up, and just before serving them put into 
the sauce two yolks of eggs, and beat up with a spoonful 
of cream. Put the "vol-au-vent" on the dish, lay the tails 
in, and pour the sauce over them. Have some sprigs of 
parsley boiled particularly green, and put into the sauce 
the last moment before serving. 

50. Wild Boar's Head. 

If you are out of wild boars, tame pig's-head will do 
quite as well. Cut the head, with the neck, as long as 
possible ; when it is clean, bone it and split it underneath ; 
leave it in salt for four days ; after which drain it, steep 
it in cold water, and put it into a marinade or mild pickle 
of vegetables, spices, and any cheap red wine, for three da3-s 
longer. Then drain the head, which stuff Avith a forcemeat 
of fat bacon, sausage-meat, pounded spices, and cooked 
line herbs ; when this is done, sew it up ; close the opening 
of the neck with a large piece of fresh pork rind ; tie the 
head with string to give it the right form ; wrap it up tightly 
in a cloth, keeping the ears upright ; wall it up with three 
thin pieces of wood, one underneath and two on the sides, 
so as to keep it straight ; then place it in a braising-pan ; 
moisten liberally with vinegar and water ; let it boil five 
hours ; drain it on a dish ; take it out of the cloth, in which 



230 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

Avrap it again to cool ; when cool, unpack it, pare, g]aze, 
and dish it up ; set round with aspic jelly. 

This is a famous dish for luncheons and suppers. The 
only forms in Avhich we dress pig's-head are as "brawn," as 
" Bath-chap," and as '' collared.'"' Try this Russian recipe. 



51. Braised Beef, Parsley Sauce. 

Take a piece of thin flank weighing about eight pounds — 
it should be cut as nearly square as possible — lay it out 
flat, and strike it all over with a cutlet bat. Next roll it 
up tightly and tie ; place the roll in a braising-pan, with 
carrots, onions, celery ; a bunch made Avitli j)arsley, thyme, 
and bay-leaf: six cloves, a bit of mace, and stock or water 
sufiicient to cover the meat ; simmer gently over a sIoav tire 
for about four hours ; and when done tender, take it up, 
Avithout undoing the string, and put the roll of beef in press 
between two dishes, with a fourteen-pound weight on the 
top. AVhen the beef is nearly cold, remove the string, trim 
it free from any rough or discoloured parts, and set it to 
warm in a baking-pan with a little of its own stock. When 
ready to serve, pour over it parsley sauce, and garnish round 
the base with glazed carrots and onions. 



52. Eromeskies k la Mouglas. 

Chop neatly any kind of meat, tongue, ham ; mushrooms 
or truflles may be added ; put this into a saute-pan with 
a small portion of white sauce, three yolks of eggs, nutmeg, 
pepper and salt, and a pinch of choj^ped chives or shallot ; 
stir over the fire for a few minutes so as to set the esfofs in 
the croquet meat ; and then spread it out an inch thick upon 



EXTBEES. 231 

a plate, and set it in a cool place to get cold and firm. It must 
next be divided into parts resembling large walnuts, rolled in 
bread-crumbs to enable you to sliape tliem into the form 
of corks or balls ; again dipped in bread-crumbs, placed in 
a wire frying-basket, fried in hot frying fat of a light colour, 
and served with Monglas sauce (p. 339). 



53. Shoulder of Veal ^ la Bourgeoise. 

Bone the veal, and season it with salt, pepper, and a 
little grated nutmeg ; roll and shape it into an oblong 
form, then tie it up ; put it into an oval braising-pan, 
with a piece of butter, and stew it over a slow fire ; let 
it take a fine light colour, then add a glass of water, 
sprinkle it with a little salt, and add a bay-leaf; place fire 
above and below till a glaze is formed. Dress the shoulder 
on the dish, and drain the butter which is in the stew- 
pan; detach what remams with a spoonful of broth, and 
pour this grav}^ over the veal. Take off the string before 
serving-. 



54. Sheep's Trotters, with Cheese. 

Bone some boiled sheep's trotters, cut them in two, and 
put them into a stew-pan ; mix in some butter, mushrooms, 
parsley, chives, and a clove ; pour over them some broth, 
and add pepper and salt ; let the whole simmer till the 
sauce is much reduced ; add a dash of vinegar, and dress 
your trotters on the dish ; cover them with a forcemeat of 
the thickness of a crown-piece ; spread them half with 
bread-crumbs and half with grated Gruyere cheese ; let 
them brown in a Dutch oven, and sers^e. Pigs' feet may 
be served in the same way. 



232 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

55. A Neat's-Foot Pudding. 

Take a pound of neat's-foot tinely shredded, three-quarters 
of a pound of suet shredded as small, a Avhole nutmeg grated, 
candied orange minced, some salt, and some currants, a 
little grated bread, and seven eggs (leave out half the 
whites) ; flour the bag, and boil two hours and a half at 
least. The sauce is sherry, sugar, and melted butter. 



56. Aspic, or Savoury Jelly. 

This is a most important item in the dressing of cold 
entrees. Boil a handful of burnet, chervil, and tarrasron in 
white vinegar till this is well impregnated with the aroma 
of the herbs ; then pour into the stew-pan some chicken- 
stock reduced. When your jelly is well seasoned, beat the 
whites of four eggs with a whisk in an earthen pan, into 
which throw the aspic ; put the whole in a stew-pan, and 
place it on the fire ; continually beat and stir the jelly till 
it becomes white ; it then nearly boils. Now draw it to the 
corner of the stove, and on the stew-pan put a cover, Avitli 
some red embers upon it ; when perfectly transparent, 
strain it through a napkin or jelly-bag, a sieve being too 
coarse. When to be used ibr decorations, such as borders, 
etc., the aspic must be sufficiently stitf. For this purj^ose 
take two or more ladlefuls of stronsr brown stock, well 
seasoned Avith roots and aromatic herbs. Put this in a 
stew-pan, with two spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, a little 
isinglass, and four whites of eggs, some salt and pej^per ; 
whisk the whole on the fire till it nearly curdles, then 
draw it to the corner of the stove, covered with a few red 
embers on the top. When perfectly clear, strain it for use 
as an aspic ; otherwise omit the vinegar, as jelly for a 
pie or galantine requires no acid. 



EXTBEES. 233 

57. Another Aspic. 

Take a knuckle of veal, a knuckle of ham, a thick slice of 
beef, and if these will not make your jelly stiff enough, 
add two calf's feet ; put them into a saucepan with a 
pint of rich stock, and sweat over a stove till reduced 
to a glaze, then moisten with stock, boil, and skim well. 
Add two onions, two carrots, salt, parsley, four cloves, 
two bay-leaves, and a clove of garlic; let the whole stew 
for seven hours, then strain off the liquor. Break 
four eggs into a stew-pan, and put to them the broth 
when cold, the juice of two lemons, and two spoonfuls of 
tarragon, and beat the whole with a whisk over the hre 
till near boiling, then remove your stew-pan to a smaller 
fire, and place fire on the lid for half an hour; now 
pass it through a jelly-bag, or wet napkin doubled, taking 
care to return back to the bag the jelly that first runs 
out. If the jelly is not sufficiently clear, clarify it a second 
time. 

Put a layer of this jelly, about half an inch thick, at 
the bottom of an aspic mould, garnish it with truffles, whites 
of eggs, sprigs of parsley, etc., according to your taste, pour m 
another half-inch of the jelly, while liquid, with great care, so 
as not to discompose your garnish, then put either call's 
brains, breasts of fowls, veal sweetbreads, cocks'-conibs, 
kidneys, fat livers, or game. Be sure, whatever you may use, 
to lay it as equally and smoothly as possible. Then fill up 
your mould with jelly, and let it stand till set. When 
wanted, dip the mould in hot water an instant; place your 
dish on the top, and turn over. — A splendid lunch and 
supper dish. 

58. Aspic (Clear). 

Put a little mirepoix, a glass of vinegar, a little whole 
pepper, and a handful of tarragon into a saucepan ; boil 



234 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

them to a jelly, and then dilute it with two ladlefuls of 
fowl broth : set it by the side of the stove, taking off the 
fat : clarify it with an egg* and a little cold water, and pass 
it through a double napkin. Put the aspic in a hain-marie. 
Serve it with blanched tarragon leaves cut in lozensfes. It 
is used as a sauce for fowls, fried fish, etc. 



59. Scotch Beef Collops with Onions. 

Cut the meat rather thinner than for broiling ; make the 
butter hot, and place the collops in the pan, with sliced 
onions — two middle-sized ones for each half-pound. If the 
butter be salt, pepper alone is used, without any additional 
salt. Cover the pan with a close lid, or plate reversed. 
When done, the collops may be drawn aside, and a little 
oyster pickle or Avalnut catsup and boiling water added 
to the onion-gravy sauce in the pan. Dish, and serve hot. 
Ten minutes will be long enough to dress them. 

This is too heavy for luncheon, but forms a first-rate 
supper dish, in winter. 



60. Scotch Minced Collops. 

Put two ounces of fresh butter into a stew-pan, and mix 
a tablespoonful of flour smoothly with it ; keep stirring the 
paste till it is lightly browned, then add a little pepper and 
salt. When nicely* browned, put with it a pound and a half 
of steak finely minced. Move it about with a fork to prevent 
its getting lumpy, and when it is quite hot, pour into it 
a breakfast-cupful of boiling water. Simmer very gently for 
ten minutes. Before serving, add a tablespoonful of mush- 
room catsup. 



ENTREES. 235 

61. Brewis. 

Cut some bread in thin slices (toasted, if preferred) into 
a basin ; pour boiling water upon it, and cover it with a 
plate ; let it remain a few minutes, and then stir in a 
piece of butter and a little salt. Oat-cake toasted and 
cut in pieces is frequently used. 



62. Scots Kail 

Is chiefly made of mutton, either fresh or salted ; beef is 
only used when mutton cannot conveniently be had. Three 
or four pounds of meat should be put to a gallon of cold 
water, along with two ounces of pearl barley, with leeks or 
onions, and allowed to stew until tender (if salted, put the 
meat into water overnis^ht, chano-insf it once before boilino-)- 
Then have ready the hearts of two cabbages cut small, or 
greens if cabbages are not in season ; put these into the 
broth, Avhich must be allowed to boil up uncovered until 
reduced to two quarts. It should only be seasoned with 
pepper and salt, but will be much improved by the addition 
of a couple of onions fried in bntter ; indeed, both carrots and 
turnips are also sometimes used, but their addition deprives 
the soup of the title of "kail," which is derived from the 
greens usually employed. The meat is served with the soup, 
and, like the " olla " of the Spaniards, or the " jjot-au-feu " 
of the French, is the standings household dish araono- the 
middle-classes in Scotland. 



63. A Scotch Haggis. 

Take the stomach of a sheep ; wash it with cold water 
until perfectly clean; turn it inside out, scald it; scrape it 
with a knife quickly, and then put it into cold salt and water 



236 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

till wanted. Take the liver, lights, and heart, and parboil 
them ; grate the liver, and mince the other parts quite fine ; 
mince also half a pound of suet and three or four onions ; toast 
half a pound of oatmeal cakes before the fire, and pound them 
into powder, Avhich is to be thickly sprinkled over the mince ; 
mix all well together ; season with pepper and salt ; then fill 
the- bag, and before sewing it up, introduce a large tea- 
cupful of any kind of broth or grav}". Put the bag into a 
pan with enough of boiling water to cover it, and a small 
plate under it ; prick it over with a needle to prevent its 
bursting, and let it boil four or five hours, keeping it con- 
stantly covered with boiling water. A haggis should be sent 
to table as hot as possible, and neither sauce nor gravy should 
be served with it. Some Scottish epicures use wheatcn 
biscuit-powder instead of pulverised oat-cake. 



64 . Punshki. 

I give this dish its Russian name because I cannot invent 
another designation for it. Chop and fry one onion ; add 
to it the meat of sliced fillet of veal : fry, season, take it 
off the fire to cool ; then choji it fine, and add two or three 
chopped hard-boiled eggs and a pinch of parsley. Thicken 
the preparation Avith a little reduced sauce, portable soup, 
or glaze. Roll out a pound and a quarter of light pie-paste; 
cut out of the fiat, with a cutter an inch and a half in 
diameter, as many rounds as you Avant. Make your patties, 
press them all round, and place them on a floured napkin 
to let the paste rise to the temperature of the kitchen. A 
few minutes before serving, plunge them in hot lard, and fry 
a nice brown. Dish on a folded napkin. 



J^'NTIiEES. 237 

65. Omelette, Plain. 

Break six eggs into a bowl, season tliem with pepper 
and salt, and beat them with a fork. Put tAvo ounces of 
butter into an omelette-pan, and as soon as it melts, pour 
in the eggs. When half set, toss the omelette, and keep 
stirring it till it is all set. The finishing operation is 
performed in one of two ways. Practised hands slant the 
pan dowuAvards from the handle, taking care, however, that 
the best of the fire is beneath the upper or liandle hand; 
they then roll the omelette downwards till it takes the form 
of an elongated oval. A more simple plan is to fold over 
the omelette on both sides to the proper shape. In either 
case the operation nuist be performed rapidly. 

66. Omelette with Bacon. 

C*ut into dice some streaky bacon which has been boiled 
for half an hour, and fry with a bit of butter. When it 
begins to get crisp, pour into the frying-pan a dozen eggs 
(previously beaten), stir them well with the bacon, gather 
up the edges of the omelette, to keep it of a proper thickness, 
and season with pepper. 

67. Omelette with Kidneys. 

Cut up a couple of kidneys into dice, or into thin slices. 
Put them into the omelette-pan with butter and some of the 
kidney fat. When the butter and the fat are melted, and 
the pieces of kidney are quite hot, pour in the beaten eggs 
(No. 65) and proceed as in No. 66. 



68. Omelette with Pine Herbs. 

Beat the eggs (see No. 65) with a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, and, if the flavour is admired, with a chopped shallot 



238 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

which has been blanched. A little gravy added to this 
makes a pleasant change. 



69. White Pudding in Skins. 

-After washing half a pound of rice in Avarni water, boil 
it in milk till tender ; then put it into a sieve to drain. 
In the meantime beat up half a pound of sweet almonds 
very fine, Avith rosewater, wash and dry a pound of currants, 
cut a pound of hog's lard small, beat up six eggs, half a 
l)ound of sucrar, a nutmeg ofrated, a stick of cinnamon, some 
mace, and salt. Mix this with the rice, put it into the 
skins, and boil them. 

Another ^V<|y^ 

Take four pounds of beef suet shredded tine, three pounds 
of grated bread, and two pounds of currants picked and 
washed ; a quarter of an ounce each of cloves, mace, and 
cinnamon finely beaten; salt, a pound and a half of sugar, 
a pint of wine, a tpiart of cream, some rosewater, and twenty 
eggs well beaten with half the whites. Mix these well, half 
fill the skins, l:)oil them a little and prick them, take them 
up when done, and lay them to dry. 



70. Casserole of Rice. 

Boil one pound of rice tender, with one quart of milk 
and a quarter of a pound of butter ; let it come to a stiif 
paste, stirring it frequently over a slow fire : form this 
paste in a mould, or on a dish, leaving a hole in the 
middle for a ragout of any sort. If wanted brown, bake 
it in a mould. When done, take out enough of the inside 
to admit the ragout. 



ENTRJ^'ES. 239 

71. Bisotto (Neapolitan way). 

Chop one middling-sized onion, wliicli fry in dripping 
(the ItaHans use oil) in a stew-pan. AVhen it gets slightly 
coloured, add a pound of rice, which must be moistened to 
three times its height with veal stock ; add a chopped tomato, 
pepper and salt, and boil for twenty minutes ; then take it 
oiX the fire, add butter and grated cheese, just as you Avould 
for macaroni. It should be a light grey in colour; and, if 
you choose, you may put it in a moukl and serve it in a 
handsome shape. 



72, Meagre Risotto. 

This excellent dish is for fast days ; and, take my word 
for it, whichever day of the week you elect to abstain from 
animal food, you will be all the better for it. For Meagre 
Risotto, proceed as in the last recipe ; but use water-zootje 
— a fish broth — instead of meat stock. "When you have 
added your grated cheese, pour over a nice sauce made of 
crayfish tails, oysters, and mushrooms, all of which have 
been cut into dice and carefully stewed ; or instead of the 
somewhat costly crayfish, oysters, and mushrooms, make 
your sauce of shrimps and little pieces of dried haddock. 



73. Timbale of Macaroni. 

Boil one pound of macaroni tender in two quarts of milk 
and water, and a quarter of a pound of butter ; when tender, 
dry it with a cloth ; line a mould with slices of fat bacon, 
mix a couple of eggs (well beaten up) with the macaroni, 
and some pepper and salt; put some in the mould, and a 
ragout of sweetbreads in the middle ; fill up with macaroni 
and bake or boil the timbale for an hour. Serve it with 
white or brown sauce, and take the bacon off. 



240 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

74. Leghorn Macaroni. 

Put a pound of macaroni into two quarts of boiling water 
with a little salt ; drain when sufficiently soft. The cook 
must use her own judgment as to the exact time re- 
quired for boiling ; twenty minutes, under ordinary circum- 
stances, should be enough ; but beware of letting your 
nfacaroni get too " pf^ppy," J^nd don't break it into short 
pieces, as it would then be likely to stick together. Now 
place your macaroni in a stew-pan, and moisten with a 
few tablespoonfuls of Bechamel (p. .327) ; season with white 
pepper and a point of nutmeg ; take the stew-pan off the 
fire, and add to it three ounces of fresh butter, in little 
bits, and four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. A smaller 
quantity of Parmesan will do if eked out by Cheddar. When 
well thickened and creamy, arrange your macaroni in laj'ers 
in a deep dish ; cover each layer with a puree of tomatoes, 
which puree is simply tomatoes stewed in beef or veal 
stock ; but you may save 3'^ourself the trouble of additional 
cooking by heating some " made " tomato sauce. 



75. Italian Macaroni. 

This is the simplest form of dressing macaroni, and is 
conunon all over the Peninsida. Simpl}^ boil your macai'oni 
in ver}' long pieces, as directed in the foregoing recipe. Then 
put in your butter in little bits ; season with a little salt ;tud 
pepper, and mix in your grated cheese ; carefully and tenderly 
lifting the mass upwards and from side to side with a wocxh'u 
fork and spoon, as though you were dressing a salad. Every 
stick of the macaroni should be well indued with butter luid 
cheese. This dish may be rendered nuich more appetising, if 
you want a change, by serving it au gratin — that is to say, 
browned in the oven or Avith a salamander. 



EXTBEES. 241 

76. Vegetable Hash. 

Chop, not very fine, the boiled vegetables left from 
dinner, and season them with salt and pepper. To each 
quart of the chopped vegetables, add half a cupful of stock 
and one tablespoonful of butter. Heat slowly in the frying- 
pan. Turn into a hot dish when done, and serve imme- 
diately. If vinegar is liked, two or more tablespoonfuls of 
it can be stirred into the hash while it is heating. 



77. German Toast. 

Take the remainder of any fricassee or ragout — any 
quantity will do ; chop it line, add a little chopped parsley, 
and a little bit of shallot or chive, mix it up with one or 
two eggs beaten, according to the quantity. Put the whole 
with its gravy into a stew-pan, and let it reduce and 
thicken on the fire. Remove it, and when it is cold, cut 
pieces of bread, toast them, and lay the mixture thickly 
upon them. Boil an egg hard, cut it into small pieces, 
and stick them on the top ; brush the whole with an egg 
beaten up, sift bread-crumbs over, and bake in the oven; 
s(|ueeze a little lemon-juice on the top. 



78. French Fanada. 

Cut a stale penny roll in pieces ; put it in a saucepan 
with just sufficient water to cover the bread ; stir it well 
over the fire, allowing it to boil five minutes ; then add 
half a teaspoonful of salt and one ounce of fresh butter ; 
mix, and take it from the fire ; beat the yolk of an egg 
with two tablespoonfuls of milk or water, and pour it 
into the panada, stirring very quickly half a minute. Any 
Q 



242 TEE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

other nice light bread would answer the purpose. Panada 
should be rather thicker than gruel, and may be made 
of milk, but water is on the whole preferable, being lighter 
and more digestible. 

I have already had something to say of this economical 
dish in my chat on " What shall we do with the Scraps ? " 
birt I return to it here in order to give a more formal recipe. 



79. Pudding Frangais. 

To make this pudding it is necessary to have a dome- 
shaped mould, four inches deep and six in diameter, and 
a cover to fit the top, completely lined v;itli a thin layer 
of paste, which must turn over its edges. Take two pounds 
of very round truffles, and cut them into circular 23ieces a 
quarter of an inch thick ; fry these lightly in a quarter 
of a pound of warm butter, with a large spoonful of fowl 
glaze, half a glass of Madeira, a pinch of fine herbs, a little 
grated nutmeg, and a proper quantity of salt. Then arrange 
the truffles in your lined mould, pour in all the ingredients, 
turn the edges of the paste over them, and cover it besides 
with a layer of paste ; put on the lid of the mould, tie it 
in a cloth, and boil it for an hour and a half The saucepan 
should be quite full of boiling water. Serve the pudding 
as quickly as possible after it is taken up. 

[For other Entrees, see Index to Recipes.] 



243 



SECTION IV.— EOASTS, ETC. 



1. BrOast Sucking Fig. 

Fill the paunch of the suckmg pig with stutting prepared 
as follows, viz. : — Chop fine four onions and a dozen sage 
leaves ; fry these with two ounces of butter over a slow 
tire for a few minutes, then add half a pound of bread- 
crumbs, two yolks of eggs, pepper, and salt. The pig 
thus being stuffed, and the paunch sewn up securely 
roast it before a brisk fire for about two hours, bastino: it 
frequently by means of a paste-brush dipped in salad oil. 
When it is done, and before removing it from the spit, 
cut off the head, and divide the pig into halves by 
sawing it straight down the spine. Dish up the pig with 
brown gravy ; to some of the stuffing add the brains, and 
a few spoonfuls of melted butter, and serve this sauce 
separately. Or the pig may be served whole. Some people, 
however, prefer to cut it up before bringing to table, as 
they declare the expression on poor little piggy's face is 
too harrowing to their feelings, since he invariably appears 
with two big, fat tears, partially congealed, roHing down his 
visasre. 



2. Leg of Mutton: Polish Way. 

Choose a good leg, hung till tender, pare the thin-end 
bone, and lay it in an earthen pan, just deep and large 
enough to hold it. Mince two or three onions, the same 
of carrots and celery roots ; fry with clarified fat, moisten 
with three glassfuls of vinegar, and the same of water ; let 



244 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

the liquid boil, add to it some sprigs of aromatics, tliyme, 
bay-leaf, basil, two cloves of garlic, parsley, cloves, and 
peppercorns ; continue boiling for twenty minutes. Then 
take the stew-pan off the fire, let the marinade stock become 
nearly cool, pour it over the leg of mutton, which macerate 
therein for twenty-four hours, turning several times. Drain 
the leg, wipe it on a cloth, put into a roasting-pan with a 
good i^iece of butter, and place in an oven not too hot ; 
half an hour afterwards baste with two gills of the marin- 
ade stock and a pint of sour cream ; finish cooking the 
leg, basting frequently; then place it on a dish, strain 
the cooking stock, reduce it at the fire until nearly thick- 
ened, then pour it over the leg, and put a little ruffle to 
the bone. 



3. Loin of Mutton, Boiled and Stuffed. 

Kemove any superfluous fat from the joint, and take out 
the bones ; lay it on the table, and beat it out ; season inside 
Avith black pepper, salt, some herbs, and a finely-chopped 
onion, with a little chopped lean ham or raw bacon. Place a 
layer of herbs on the seasoning, and roll up the meat, fasten- 
ing it securely with a string ; then put it in the oven, with 
greased paper, in a baking tin with a little fat, for about half 
an hour ; take up, and remove the paper ; brush over with a 
whole Qgg beaten up, and roll it in browned bread-crumbs : 
put it into the oven again for about three-quarters of an 
hour, keeping it carefully basted. When cooked, draAv out 
the string, place the meat on a dish, and serve with brown 
caper sauce. 



4. Boast Neck of Venison. 

Saw off the spine bone, and remove the small flat 
bones which cover the fillet part of the neck ; shorten the 



ROASTS, ETC. 245 

ribs by sawing them across without cutting tlirougli the 
fat, which, after the upper bones are removed, must be 
rolled over the ribs; wrap your neck, thus trimmed, in 
greased paper, and then cover it with a crust of paste 
of flour and water; finally, envelop it in greased paper 
securely tied on with a string, and roast it in a cradle-spit 
before a moderate fire for about an hour and three-quarters. 
When you take it up from the fire, carefully remove the 
paste and the paper. Sprinkle salt over it, dredge it with 
dissolved butter, and froth it by means of a red-hot sala- 
mander or the kitchen shovel. Dish up with a rich brown 
gravy, and serve currant jelly in a sauce-boat. French 
beans are the only vegetables that should be eaten with 
venison. 



5. Fillet of Beef, Roasted and Larded. 

Trim your fillet ; lard it fine, and let it soak for twelve 
hours in a marinade made of good oil, salt, pepper, nutmeg, 
sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, and an onion cut in slices. After it 
has soaked, take it out, and put it on the spit before a quick 
fire. It must not be too much done, but should be taken 
off the spit with the gravy in it. Serve it with a sauce made 
of its own gravy, a little vinegar, shallots, salt, and pepper, 
put into a sauce-boat. 



6. Roast Ham. 

After partially boiling a good ham, strain it and let it get 
cold ; put a skewer right through it and Avi'ap it in an oiled 
sheet of paper. Then place on it a layer of cut-up carrots 
and onions, a few cloves and a bay-leaf, and roll the Avhole 
into a second paper ; tie up firmly with string, roast, and 
serve w4th any sauce you like. 



24G THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

7. Bioast Tripe. 

Cut the tripe into two oblong pieces ; make a forcemeat 
of bread-crumbs and chopped parsley, seasoned with pepper 
and salt ; bind this with the yolks of two eggs, and spread 
it upon the fat side of the tripe ; then roll very tightly, 
and tie up with packthread. Roast, and baste it with 
butter ; it Avill take an hour or an hour and a half to 
do. SerA'e it with melted butter, into which put a table- 
spoonful of catsup and one of lemon pickle. 

[For Roast Poultry, Game, etc., see Index.] 



247 



SECTION v.— POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 



1. Pigeons k la Crapaadine. 
Pick the pigeons, cut off the claws, truss them with 
the legs inwards, and then with your left hand press on 
the breast, and scollop one half of the flesh of the breast ; 
turn this down on the table, flatten it with your knife, dust 
it over with salt and pepper; break the yolks of two eggs 
into a plate, brush the pigeons all over with them, then dip 
them into crumbs of bread, next into melted butter, then 
into crumbs of bread again, which you level as smooth as 
possible. Now broil the pigeons on a slow fire, that they 
may get thoroughly done without being burnt. Ascertain 
when they are done enough by thrusting the point of your 
knife into the fleshy part of the leg. If no blood issues, 
then they are done. Serve under them an Italian (p. 836), 
or some rich gravy. 

Your sauce may be prepared in the following way: — 
Chop a dozen of shallots, and put them into a stew-pan 
with two spoonfuls of vmegar ; boil them till there is no 
vinegar left; then put in a little broth or gravy of roast 
meat, with raspings of bread, salt, pepper, etc. Let this 
boil for a short time, pour it over the pigeons, and send 
up hot. If you put to it a small bit of glaze or portable 
soup, it will improve the flavour. 



*? 



248 THE THOIiOUGH GOOD COOK. 

2. To Roast Pigeons. 

Let them be cropped and drawn as soon as killed, and 
wiped inside as well as possible. They will be ready for 
the spit in from twelve to forty-eight hours, according to 
the weather; and are in full season from June to November. 
If kept too long, they lose their flavour. When they are to 
be„ dressed, they must be well washed in several waters. 
Then stuff with parsley parboiled and chopped, and butter 
about the size of a nutmeg for each bird, a few bread- 
crumbs, and the liver chopped if it is liked. Season rather 
highly with pepper and salt. Twenty to twenty-five minutes 
will roast them. Dust with flour, and froth with fresh 
butter. Parsley and butter, or plain melted butter, is served 
in the dish, and is more suitable for mild-flavoured birds of 
all kinds than meat gravy, which has so strong a predominat- 
ing flavour of its owm. Garnish wdth fried bread-crumbs, 
or slices of bitter orange. Bread-sauce, orange gravy sauce, 
or rice sauce. Serve with dressed French beans, or asparagus, 
or cucumber. 



3. Pigeons on the Skewer. 

Take as many pigeons as you require to be cooked, and 
after properly cleaning them, being careful to remove the 
entrails, salt and pepper them inside ; then encase them in 
slices of fat bacon ; roll round them sage leaves ; tie each 
pigeon up tightly Avith string ; put them on the skewer and 
roast them. 



4. Pigeon Pie. 

Put a few thin slices oT heef into a dish, and the pigeons 
over them, well seasoned with salt, pepper, and spices, the 



POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 249 

yolks of a few eggs within the intervals, and a spoonful of 

broth; cover the whole Avith plain paste, or with puff 
paste, etc. 



5. Pigeon Pudding. 

Line a basin with rich paste half an inch thick ; put in 
three pigeons, with about half a pound of beef-steak from 
well-hung meat, the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, salt, 
pepper, and spices ; and pour in gravy from the bones or 
trimmings, with brown stock as a foundation, to half the 
depth ; cover with paste, and tie in a cloth. The pudding 
will require about three hours' boiling. 



6. Cutlets of Fillets of Fowl, with Crumbs of Bread 
k la Marechale. 

Take four small fowls ; cut oti' the fillets -without injuring 
the small fillets ; cut the merry-thoughts in two. Take off 
the small fillets ; pare them into the shape of hearts ; stick 
the merry-thought bones mto the point of the hearts, to give 
them the appearance of chops ; and do the same with the 
other fillets. Season them with pejoper and salt ; then brush 
them over with yolks of eggs, and dip them into crumbs 
of bread ; next dip them into clarified butter, and then 
into crumbs again. Use your knife to level the bread, and 
broil the fillets over a brisk fire. The fillets, being very 
thin, require only to be lightly browned. Serve under them 
some thin Spanish sauce, well seasoned. 

I must here observe to young or inexperienced cooks 
that when they have something thin to broil, the fire must 
be very sharp ; and when something thick, the fire must be 
moderate, as the flesh takes more time to be done throuirh. 



250 THE THOEOUGH GOOD COOK. 

7. Scollops of Pat Ptdlets k la Conti, with Truffles. 

Prepare tlie scollops in tlie ordinary way, but at tlie 
moment when you tlirow the scollops into the butter, the 
truffles must be ready, peeled and cut of the same round form 
and dimensions as the scollops. Season with a little salt ; 
" toss " the truffles and scollops a few moments before dinner- 
time ; put them into a smooth sauce (p. 347 ), to which you 
have added a little reduction of truffles, made as follows : — 
The trimmings of truffles are to be reduced in a little 
broth ; introduce some of this glaze into the scollops, and 
as it is ahva3's brown, add three or four spoonfuls of thick 
cream to the saute to make the sauce Avhite ; season it 
according to your palate. Do not forget to put the sauce 
through a tammy, to have it very bright. 



8. Fowl a la Cardinal. 

Take a nice Avhite fowl, singe it, and cut out the bones 
without destrojdng the skin. Next have a farce into Avhich 
you have introduced a little lobster spawn, well pounded, to 
make it very red. This farce, being made rather liquid, is to 
be injected, first between the skin and the flesh of the fowl, 
and then inside the body. Now mould the fowl into an 
agreeable shape ; put it into an oval stew-pan Avell trimmed 
with slices of bacon, and pour some poele (see No. 10) over 
it ; leave it on the fire for an hour and a half. As it has 
no bones left, it requires more time before it is done. 
Serve it up with a German sauce (p. 333), to which you 
add some of the lobster spawn, or a little tomato sauce. 



POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 251 

9. Kachis, or Itlinced Fowl a la Polonaise. 

If you have any remnants of fowl, mince tliem, and put 
the mince into a good Bechamel (p. 327), without suffer- 
ing it to boil. Sometimes j'ou may put the whole mto a 
vol-au-vent, at another time into patties ; or you may sur- 
round it with a bordering of paste, with poached eggs over 
the minced meat. By these means you obtain a variety of 
dishes. You may likewise send it up in croustades, but 
these croustades bear the appearance of a dish of the 
second course. 



10. Fowl a la Villeroi. 

Take a fine fowl, which may be known to connois- 
seurs by a skin of bluish hue marbled with grey. Having 
been emptied and singed, let it be trussed, the legs turned 
doAvn outwards ; inside the body introduce a small quantity 
of butter kneaded with salt and lemon-juice. Put the fowl 
into an oval stew-pan, Avith a layer of fat bacon ; next pour 
some poele over it. Things which are poele, requiring to 
preserve their whiteness, are not to be kept on the fire so 
long as others. It requires only three-quarters of an hour for 
a fowl to be done in this style. A capon, however, would 
require full}' an hour. 

Observation, to he particularly attended to by the cool: — 
As a poele has no translation. I retain the name. It is 
indispensable in fine cookery, and is made as follows : — 
Take one pound of beef suet, one pound of quite fresh 
butter, and one pound of very fat bacon ; cut the suet 
and the bacon into very large dice ; put them into a stew- 
pan with two pounds of veal cut in the same manner; 
fry till the veal becomes very white, and then moisten 
with about three pints of boiling water, a handful of 
salt, one bay-leaf, a few sprigs of thyme, one onion stuck 



252 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

with three cloves, and a great bunch of parsley and green 
onions ; let the whole boil gently till the onion is done, 
then drain it through a hair sieve, and use for anything 
that may want poele. The use of poele is to make every- 
thing boiled in it very white and tasty. In the Avinter it 
keeps for a week, and is very useful in the larder. 

„ Ohs. — This is almost the same operation as braising ; the 
only difference is that what is poele must be underdone, 
and a braise must be done throucfh. 



11. Fowl a la Tartare. 

Take a fine fowl, turn in the legs as usual, then cut it 
in two ; take the bones off from the back, cut off the breast- 
bones, break those of the lecfs, flatten the I'owl with the back 
of your knife, and season it with salt and pepper; then 
dip it into clarified butter, and next into crumbs of bread, 
equally on all sides. Now broil it up to a tine colour, 
on a slow fire, that it may be done thoroughly. Thrust 
your knife into it to ascertain if it is well done ; it requires 
an hour, or at least three-quarters, to be done properly. 



12. Fowl a la Dubaril. 

This nuist be a fowl of dessertc, but yet very white. 
Begin by taking off the breast. Then take the fleshy part 
of a second nice white roast fowl, which you cut into small 
square pieces of an equal size ; you also cut some tongue 
the same; put these slices of fowl and tongue into a pretty 
thick Bechamel. Keep your fowl very hot. The moment 
you are going to serve it, pour the mince inside the body 
of the fowl. Thin slices of tongue, cut - of the shape of 



FOULTBT, GAME, ETC. 253 

cocks'-combs, should be put round the mince on the top 
of the fowl ; serve under it a ragout k I'Allemande, and 
poached eggs on the top of the mince. 



13. Fowl §i la Turque. 

Emj^ty a fine fowl, and be particular in washing the 
inside of it Avith very hot water ; if you leave any blood 
in it, the rice Avill be full of scum. Your rice having 
boiled a sufficient time in rich broth, season it with 
salt, and introduce some into the body of the fowl, which 
you next roast, well wrapped up in layers of bacon and in 
paper ; it requires an hour to be sufficiently done. Send 
it up with rice round the fowl, like that you have used 
to put inside, only add to it two spoonfuls of very good 
Bechamel, well seasoned — do not let it be too thin, and 
pour a little smooth sauce over the bird. Take particular 
care to keep the fowl white. 



14. Fowl k la Monglas. 

This is another cold fowl of desserte. Take off the 
breast, as in No. 12. You must have ready either a mince 
or a salpicon pretty thick, which is to be introduced, cold, 
into the body of the fowl. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 
a little fresh melted butter ; then cover the breast of the 
fowl only Avith crumbs of bread, basted Avitli clarified butter ; 
next give it a colour Avith the salamander, but you must 
be careful to see that it does not get broAvn too soon ; 
noAV baste it Avith a little butter again ; take the red-hot 
shovel to give the foAvl a good broAvn colour on all sides ; 
serve a broAvn sauce under it if you have applied a salpicon, 



254 , THE THOIiOUGH GOOD COOK. 

and a smooth sauce if you have used a mince. It may also 
be called a " poularde en surprise." 

The mince or the salpicon may be made with the same 
sauce. Salpicon is a composition of different ingredients, and 
mince (emince) is all of one sort. 

Salpicon. — Cut into small dice some mushrooms, tongue, 
truffles, and fillets of fowl ; the truffles and mushrooms 
must be ready done, as well as the tongue and fowl ; put 
all this into a very reduced Bechamel, and when cold use 
as directed. 

Emtiicd is only the fleshy part of either fowl or game 
minced and put into some well-seasoned Bechamel. When 
you have a short allowance of meat you are obliged to 
mince, as this requires no shape. Salpicon is in general 
brown ; minced fowl always white. 



15. Fowl with Olives. 

Singe and prepare a fine fowl ; then take some olives, 
which are to be blanched till they are no longer briny. Next 
boil them in a thin Spanish sauce. Skim the sauce, add 
a little lemon-juice, and pour it under the fowl. Serve 
up wath some stuffed olives, which you have turned with 
your knife, so as to take out the stones and leave the olives 
whole. 



16. Fowl with Tarragon. 

Chop finely some tarragon, and roll it in butter; place 
this in the carcase of a fowl, sew it up and truss it, put it 
into a saucepan half filled with water, with salt, carrots, two 
large onions, bacon, a clove, a very little thyme, a very 
small sprig of tarragon without leaves, as long as a finger ; 



FOULTEY, GAME, ETC. 255 

let the whole stew till the fowl be very white. Then take 
some of the liquor, and reduce it to a glaze, to make a 
brown sauce ; add a little water to the rest of the liquor ; 
thicken it with a little flour ; put in some leaves of tarragon 
cut into quarters, and boil up. Serve the fowl very white, 
the sauce over it very brown, and garnish the sides of the 
dish Avitli leaves of tarrao-on. 



17. Ragout of Fowl. 

Put into a stew-pan a dessertspoonful of flour, fine herbs, 
and nmshrooms chopped finely ; warm it five minutes ; add 
a glass of Avhite wine ; let it simmer a quarter of an hour, 
and then warm in it some limbs of roast fowl. Toast some 
slices of bread, with which line the dish. Just before serving, 
add to the sauce two spoonfuls of olive oil, which pour 
into the saucepan, taking care to let the sauce warm without 
boiling ; then pour it over the toasted bread, and place the 
limbs of fowl upon the bread. 



18. Forcemeat Balls of Fowl. 

According to the quantity of forcemeat that you wish 
made, take of undressed fowl meat ; remove all the fibres, 
chop and pound it ; add the same quantity of calf's udder, 
boiled and cold; or, instead, some butter, and the same 
quantity of bread-crumbs soaked in milk, well drained, and 
pressed in a linen cloth. Beat the Avhole Avell together, 
adding the yolk of an eg^\ then tAVo other yolks, with 
pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Strain the force- 
meat in a quenelle-tammy; incorporate with it the Avhitcs 
of two eggs beaten to snow. Mould a small quenelle on a 
table sprinkled Avitli flour; boil or poach it in a little broth 



256 THE THOIiOUOH GOOD COOK. 

or water; taste it, to knoAV if it be well seasoned. These 
quenelles may be poached in the spoon instead of rolled on 
the table. They serve for garnish, and they may also be 
made of meat, veal, or game. If a little of the flesh of 
conger-eel be added, it will give them a very delicate flavour. 



19. Chicken ^ la Marengo. 

Cut ujJ some young fowls as for a fricassee ; put them 
into a frying-pan with some rasped fat bacon and a slice 
of ham ; add to this some slices of onion ; season with salt 
and pepper ; fry till the fowls and onions are of a nice colour ; 
remove the fat, add a little lemon-juice, and serve. 



20. Chicken k la Girenflot. 

Prepare the bird for roasting; when on the spit baste 
it constantly with butter, into which you have mixed bacon 
and shallot, both chopped fine. When the chicken is of 
a fine golden colour, put one or two good slices of toast 
into the dripping-pan. Dish the bird on the toast, and serve 
with all the savoury contents of the dripping-pan. 



21. Capons ^ la Turque. 

Take two white capons, empty them, and put them 
into Avarm Avater that they may disgorge the blood. Have 
ready some rice Avhich has boiled till soft in rich broth; put 
this rice, Avell seasoned, into the bodies of the capons ; then 
truss them, cover them with layers of bacon, A\Tap them 
up in paper, and spit them ; they must be an hour roasting. 



POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 257 

"When done, dish them with a garnish of soft rice, and a 
smooth sauce. 



22. Capon k la Nautaise. 

Make a farce with the liver, a dozen roasted chestnuts, 
a piece of butter, parsley, green onions, a very little garlic, 
tAvo yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Roast 
the capon, after having filled it with the farce, and cover 
it with buttered paper ; when it is done, brush it over with 
the yolk of an egg diluted in a little lukewarm water; 
sprinkle bread-crumbs all over it; let it brown well, and 
serve it with a sharp sauce. 



23. To Boil a Capon Larded with Limins. 

Truss a fairly good capon ; boil it by itself in water, with 
a Httle oatmeal. Then take mutton broth and half a pint 
of white wine, a bundle of herbs, whole mace ; season with 
verjuice ; put marrow and dates ; season with sugar. Cut up 
preserved limins ; with a larding-pin lard them in ; put the 
capon in a deep dish ; thicken your broth with almonds, and 
pour it on the bird. 



24. Chicken Puddings k TUde. 

Make these puddings with forcemeat-balls, like those a la 
Richelieu (No. 25) ; dip them into crumbs of bread, and fry 
them of a light brown ; make at the top an oblong opening, 
empty the puddings, taking care to preserve, however, a coat 
thick enough to admit a salpicon of chickens, truffles, and 
mushrooms, cut into small dice and thrown into a Avell- 
seasoned Bechamel ; take six small fillets, three being 
R 



258 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

wanted for each pudding ; give them the shape of a handle of 
a basket, after having larded them with bacon and decorated 
them "en conti," as it is called. Then take a very large carrot, 
cut it of the same size as the puddings, wrap it up in thin 
layers of bacon, put the small fillets over the carrot, and 
dust a little salt over them ; place the whole in an oven ; 
do_ not let it be too much done, but of a light brown only. 
Glaze them when ready to send up to dinner; pour the 
salpicon into the puddings, with the sham basket handles at 
an equal distance over the puddings ; and see that the fillets 
are not thrust in too far, that they may really look like basket 
handles. This dish is for a grand dinner, when common 
dishes are not to make their appearance. 



25. Chicken Puddings a la Richelien. 

These puddings are the same thing as a farce a quenelles, 
made of either veal, fowl, rabbits, whitings, carp, etc. Sweat 
some white onions that are cut into small dice ; when well 
done, drain them in a hair-sieve, in order that there may 
not be the least particle of butter ; work the farce with a 
wooden spoon before you put them in, to prevent them 
from breaking, for it is requisite that they should remain 
entire. Let this farce stand to cool. When it is quite cold, 
roll it into the shape of puddings of the length of the 
dish, and poach them in the following manner: — Rub with 
butter a stew-pan which is large enough to contain the 
puddings with ease ; lay them over the butter ; pour some 
boiling water with a little salt into the stew-pan and let 
them boil gently, till you see they are properly swelled ; 
then drain, and let them cool. When cold, mould them of 
an equal size, dip them into yolks of eggs well beaten, Avith 
a little salt, and then slightly into crumbs of bread ; fry 
them on a clear fire until they are of a fine colour; drain 



POULTBY, GAME, ETC. 259 

them with a clean towel ; dish them, and pour over them 
an Italian sauce (p. 336). 

Some people make use of the Sauce Hatelets (p. 335) ; in 
this case it must be poured hot over the puddings. When 
they are cold and the sauce begins to cool, put an equal 
quantity on each square with your knife, taking care that 
they are made mto regular squares. Dip them into crumbs 
of bread. Then prepare an omelette, by which is meant 
3-olks and whites of eggs, beaten up with a little salt. The 
puddings are to be dipped only once into this preparation ; 
give them a good colour by frying in very hot dripping. You 
may serve them sometimes with crumbs of bread, and some- 
times white, without the crumbs, just at the instant they 
are poached. 

26. Souffle of Chickens a la Creme. 

This dish is made of the remnants of roasted chickens. 
Take off the white flesh and mince it very small, pound it in 
a mortar with a little Bechamel (p. 327), a good lump of fresh 
butter, and salt and pepper ; with this mix the yolks of four 
eggs. Strain the whole through a tammy, or a hair-sieve ; 
then beat the whites of five eggs till they form a single body ; 
mix these with the former preparation, and put the whole in 
a dish " a soufller," or in a croustade that has been raised like 
the crust of a pate chaud. It will be done in a quarter of an 
hour or twenty minutes, according to the quantity. It is to 
be observed that if the oven is too hot, the outside of the 
souffle will be burnt, although the inside is not done enough. 
This, therefore, nuist be carefullv attended to. 



27, Financiere poxir Vol-au-vent. 

Cut up in small pieces a cooked chicken, and put them 
into a smooth sauce with some mushrooms, sweetbreads, 
R 2 



260 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

forcemeat-balls, cocks'-combs and cocks'-kidneys. When you 
have to boil a fowl so as to orarnish the financiere, use the 
liquor to make the smooth sauce, with a little clarified gravy 
and the juice of mushrooms. 



28. Fricass€e of Chicken in Ten Minutes. 

Warm the limbs in a stew-pan with butter ; then take 
them out, and put into the butter remaining in the stew-pan 
some mushrooms, parsley, shallots chopped up, salt, and 
spice ; set this over the fire ; pour in some white wine, 
and reduce the sauce over a brisk fire. Put in the chickens, 
to keep them hot, without letting the sauce boil, and dress 
them on the dish. 



29. Brown Fricasseed Chicken or Kabbit. 

You must take your young rabbit or chicken and skin 
it; then cut it into very small pieces, and rub these Avitli 
yolks of egg. Have ready some grated bread, a little beaten 
mace, and a little grated nutmeg mixed together; roll the meat 
in it. Place a little butter in your stew-pan, and when it 
is melted, put in your meat ; fry it to a fine brown colour, 
and take care that none sticks to the bottom of the pan ; 
then pour the butter away, and introduce half a pint 
of gravy, a glass of red wine, a few mushrooms, a little salt, 
and a piece of butter rolled in flour. When the whole is of 
due thickness, dish it up and send it to table. 



30. White Fricasseed Chicken or Rabbit. 

Take your chicken or rabbit, skin it, and cut it into 
small pieces ; place them in warm water to draAv out the 



. FOULTRT, GAME, ETC. 261 

blood, and tlien lay tlieiii in a clean cloth to dry. Put them 
into a stew-pan with milk and Avater, stew them till they 
are tender. Then take a clean pan, put in lialf a pint 
of cream and a quarter of a pound of butter ; stir it together 
till the butter is melted — 3'ou must be sure to keep it 
stirring all the time, or it will be greasy. Then Avith a fork 
take the chicken or rabbit out of the stew-pan, and put it 
into a saucepan Avith the butter and cream. HaA^e ready 
a little mace, dried and beaten fine, a very little nutmeg, 
a fcAv mushrooms ; shake all together for a minute or tAvo, 
and dish up. Lamb and veal may be done in the same Avay. 



31. Chicken Pudding. 

Take of the flesh of rabbits or capons, tAvo pounds ; of 
suet, one pound. Add parsley, thyme, marjoram, cloves, mace, 
and nutmeg. Chop all very fine on a chopping-board ; then 
put in four spoonfuls of grated bread, mixed Avith cream 
and the yolk of an egg ; mix all Avell together, and thercAA'ith 
fill the bodies of chickens (not too full, lest they break in 
boiling), Avhich boil in milk and Avater, Avith a blade or two 
of mace, a bunch of SA\-eet herbs, and a little salt. Make the 
sauce Avith SAveet butter and juice of oranges, beaten Avell 
together. 



32. Chicken Fie. 

Cover the bottom of a pie-dish Avith slices of raAv ham or 
veal ; season Avith salt and pepper ; over this place tAvo young 
raAv chickens ; cut each into four parts ; season likeAvise 
Avith pepper and salt ; add six yolks of eggs, boiled hard, and 
moisten Avith a gill of gravy; cover the pie Avith a flat of 
putt' paste ; adorn it, egg it, and bake it in a moderate oven 



262 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

for one hour and a lialf. If the pie is to be eaten cold, 
you can mix in the gravy two leaves of dissolved gelatine. 



33. Chicken Pot- Pie. 

"Take a fine chicken, from three to four pounds, dra^v, 
wipe well, and cut into twelve pieces. Put these in a 
pan, and cover them with cold water ; leave them for thirty 
minutes, then wash well, drain, and return them to the 
saucepan. Cover again Avitli fresh water, season with two 
pinches of salt, one pinch of pepper, and a third of a pinch 
of nutmeg ; add a bunch of six small onions, and four 
ounces of salt pork, cut into square pieces. Cook for three- 
quarters of an hour, taldng care to skim well ; then add 
one pint of raw potatoes and three tablespoonfuls of flour 
diluted with a cupful of water. Stir until it boils, then 
let cook for ten m.inutes. Remove the bouquet, and transfer 
the whole to a deep baking-dish ; moisten the edges slightly 
with water, and cover the top with a good pie-crust. Egg 
the surface, make a few trans-verso lines on the paste with 
a fork, and cut a hole in the centre. Bake in a brisk oven 
for twenty minutes, and when quite cold, serve. 



34. Capilotade of Duck. 

If you have any roasted ducks left, and are called upon 
for one entree more, cut them up as for eating ; flay them, and 
let them simmer in a thin Italian sauce. Fry a few slices 
of bread cut into the shape of a kite, and send up with the 
juice of a lemon. If you should not have any Italian sauce 
ready, mince a few shallots, boil them in vinegar; make a 
little browning (roux), which you moisten with broth, or 



POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 263 

even water, and mix a little glaze seasoned with salt and 
pepper ; put the shallots into this sauce ; let it boil a few 
minutes; then put the duck into the sauce to heat, but 
without boiling, and give it a high seasoning. Such common 
dishes are ahvays to be highly seasoned. 



35. Dnck with Olives. 

This entree is admired only by the Italians. Poele the 
ducks (see No. 10). Pour over them olive sauce, which, 
in my humble opinion, is no very great treat. Take a 
bottle of French or Italian olives, cut the kernel out, but 
preserve the shape of the olive ; blanch them in boiling 
water to take off the salt ; if they are not too briny 
put them into a very good Spanish sauce, with the juice 
of a lemon and a little cayenne. Serve this sauce with 
duck only. 



36. Duck with Turnips. 

After having emptied, trussed, and singed the duck, 
mask it between layers of bacon, and moisten either with 
a poele (No. 10) or broth, with a little salt. Stew the duck 
for three-quarters of an hour if it is a young one ; if old 
or tough, for an hour ; when done, drain it, and let it 
simmer in turnip sauce to take the taste of turnips. (When 
ducks begin to grow old, by keeping them a few days they 
become tender.) Roast the bird to a nice colour. When 
underdone, cut it in tive parts : the two wings, the two legs, 
and the breast. Now cut six turnips in the shape of olives, 
fry them in butter Avitli a little powdered sugar, to give them 
a good colour, mix a tablespoonful of flour with them ; 
moisten with half broth and half gravy of veal ; season with 



264 TEE TEOEOUGE GOOD COOK. 

salt and a little pepper, a bundle of parsley and green onions ; 
skim ; when the turnips are done, put them into a stew- 
pan separately, and add to them a very little sauce. In the 
remainder of the sauce boil the duck till well done; then 
skim off the fat, reduce the sauce, and serve all together. 



37. Canvas-Back Ducks, Roasted. 

Procure two tine fat canvas-back ducks, pick, singe, 
draw, and wipe carefully; throw a light pinch of salt 
inside, run in the head from the end of the neck to the 
back, truss nicely, and place in a roasting-pan. Sprinkle 
a little salt over, put them in a brisk oven, and let cook 
for eighteen minutes ; arrange on a very hot dish, untruss, 
throw two tablespoonfuls of white broth into each duck, 
and serve with six slices of fried hominy and currant jelly. 



38. Wild Ducks a la Chasseur. 

Truss the ducks by twisting each leg at the knuckle 
and resting the claws on each side of the breast, fixing them 
with a skewer run through the thighs and pinion of the 
wings. Rub the liver over the breast, and roast underdone. 
Cut the breast in slices without detaching them, catching 
in a saucepan the gravy that escapes ; add a piece of glaze 
the size of a walnut, place on the fire, and when hot 
add four pats of butter, half a glass of port wine, a little 
mignonette pepper, and the juice of half a lemon ; shake 
all over the fire, and when the butter is melted, sauce over, 
and serve when perfectly cold. 



POULTEY, GAME, ETC. 265 

39. Hot Raised Fies of Larks. 

Bone the larks ; dress the pie-crust ; put the farce 
in the bottom and the birds over the farce ; then fill 
the paste Avith farce, close the pie, but leave a little hole 
at the top to prevent the crust from breaking. Let it be 
cooked of a lio'ht-brown colour. When done, take it out 
of the oven, take off likewise the top crust or cover ; then 
pour a hnanciere ragout into the pie, after you have drained 
the fat, if there is an}^ Do not put the top crust on again ; 
send up hot with high seasoning, which brown entrees require 
more than white ones. 



40. Caisses of Larks. 

Bone the larks, and stuff them with line farce. Have 
ready small paper cases dipped into warm oil. Give the 
larks a round shape, put into the cases some of the farce, and 
place over this the larks. Next, put them on a false bottom 
with some buttered paper over them, for fear they should 
dry while baking. When baked enough, dish them. If there 
is room enough, pour into the cases a little Spanish sauce 
(p. 347) and lemon-juice. You must be very careful to drain 
out all the fat. 



41. Larks in Croustade. 

This dish would find few admirers, as birds in eroustade, 
and even hot raised pies, are very seldom called for. The 
gentry of this country like to see what they are eating; 
they fear to meet with something they do not like in a hot 
raised pie, which they seldom touch. The reason of it is 
obvious, and justifies their aversion : the aforesaid hot pics 
being generally economical entrees, made of. legs or other 



266 THE THOBOUOH GOOD COOK. 

inferior parts of either fowl or game, and not of tlie fillets. 
Larks for croiistades must be done beforehand. Put the birds 
into croustades fried of a light brown, the inside j)art of 
which take out with a cutter; into the vacuity put first a 
little farce, and the lark over it. Keep the birds hot till you 
serve up. 

42. Larks au Gratiu. 

Take eighteen larks, as fat as possible : pick and bone 
them ; next, season them with salt and j^epper, and stuff 
them with a farce fine, or a farce a quenelles ; the former, 
however, is preferable. Dish them nicely, and put some of 
the farce into the dish. Insert slices of fried bread, cut 
whimsically, between the birds. When the larks are laid 
all round the dish, put into the middle any that may 
be left ; these latter are to be raised higher than the 
rest. Cover the whole with layers of bacon, and leave it 
in the oven for twenty minutes. Then take off the bacon, 
drain the fat, and serve up with a Spanish sauce (p. 347) 
of a nice colour, and well seasoned. 



43. To Roast Larks and Wheatears. 

When well cleaned, dip them in yolk of egg, and roll 
them in bread-crumbs. Put a small bit of butter in each 
bird. Spit on a lark-spit, and fasten that to the spit. Baste 
with plenty of good butter, which is most essential in 
roasting all the smaller birds. Strew sifted bread-crumbs 
over the birds as the}^ roast. From twelve to fifteen minutes 
will do them. Serve fried bread-crumbs, and garnish with 
fried crumbs or crisp parsley. 

Some good cooks put a thin, small slice of bacon between 
the birds when they are spitted, to nourish them. This is 
a good practice. 



POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 267 

44. Stewed Quails. 

Put a little butter, worked up with flour, and a few 
green onions, into a stew-pan ; when brown, put in some 
quails, a glass of Avine, the same of stock, some parsley, 
more small onions, a bay-leaf, and two or three cloves ; stew 
these till the quails are sufficiently done ; garnish your 
dish with cocks'-combs, artichoke bottoms, fried bread, etc. 



45. Quails a I'Espagiiole. 

Mix the juice of a lemon with some butter, salt, and 
pepper: pick and prepare eight quails; stuff" them well with 
the above mixture ; then fasten the legs to the bod}^, leaving 
the claws free ; truss them a good shape, and put them 
into the saucepan on slices of bacon, cover them with more 
slices, add a poele (No. 10), moisten with equal portions of 
Avhite wine and stock, set them on the fire for half an 
hour ; then take them out, drain, and untie them ; place 
each on a piece of fried bread the size of the quail, and 
serve with clear Spanish sauce, with the addition of a 
little glaze. 



46. Quails a la Chasseur. 

Put the quails in a saucepan with a little butter, a bay- 
leaf, sweet herbs, salt, and pepper ; set them on a fierce fire 
and keep shaking them until they are tender, then add a 
dessertspoonful of flour, half a glass of white wine, and a little 
stock ; when this is thick, and C[uite hot without boiling, take 
from the fire and serve. 



268 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

47. Plovers. 

Plovers are hardly lit for anything but roasting. Some- 
times, however, they are prepared " a la bourguignotte," which 
is indeed the only Avay of making a ragout of plovers. In 
this case, empty and truss them as neatly as possible ; mask 
them in a stew-pan with layers of bacon ; moisten them 
wilh a little poele (Xo. 10) or with broth : when done enough, 
let them simmer a little in a bourguignotte, and serve up 
hot with a garnish. 



48. Capilotade of Plovers. 

If you have any roasted plovers left, and are short of 
an entree, cut them in halves and pare them ; flay them, put 
them into a stew-pan with two spoonfuls of Italian sauce, 
a glass of white wine, a little salt and pepper. Let them 
simmer for one hour, and dish them with fried slices of bread 
between. Skim the sauce, squeeze the juice of a lemon, 
and mask the meat with the sauce. This dish must be 
highly seasoned. 



49. Pea Fowls. 

These magnificent birds make a noble roast, and Avhen 
young are very excellent. They are larded, plain roasted, 
and served with the tail stuck in them, Avhich you have 
preserved, the head with its feathers being left folded up 
in paper and tucked under the wing. Roast about an hour 
and a half, take the paper from the head and neck, ckess 
upon your dish with Avatercress, and a border of tulips or 
roses round, and serve the gravy separately in a boat. 



POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 269 

50. Partridge Saut^, with Mushrooms. 

Take two young partridges, each of Avhicli cut in halves, 
and Lay in a convenient sized stew-pan (into which j'ou 
have previousl}^ poured two or three tablespoonfuls of 
salad oil), first seasoning them lightly with a little white 
pepper and salt, and a sprinkle of chopped shallots ; put 
a cover upon the stew-pan, place this over a moderate 
fire until one side of the partridges is brown, then turn 
them over, and continue until they are browned on both 
sides. Now pour off part of the oil, and add half a table- 
spoonful of flour, which well mix in ; then a glass of 
sherry, half a pint of broth, and twent}" small button 
mushrooms (previously blanched) ; let simmer, skimming 
oft" all the oil which rises to the surface, until the partridges 
are tender, and the sauce is thick enough to adhere to them ; 
season the sauce a little if required ; dress the partridges 
upon a dish, sauce over, "and serve. 



51. Braised Partridge, with Celery Sauce. 

Singe, draw, wipe, and truss two partridges with their 
wings inside. Lay a piece of pork-rind in a saucepan, adding 
one carrot and one onion, both cut in slices, two bay-leaves, 
one s-png of thyme, and the two partridges. Season with 
one pinch of salt and half a pmch of pepper. When they 
have assumed a good golden colour on the hot stove, moisten 
with half a pint of white broth, then put the saucepan in 
the oven, and let cook for twenty minutes. Dress them 
on a serving-dish, untruss, pour a pint of hot celery sauce 
over, and serve. 



270 THE THOnOUGH GOOD COOK. 

52. Partridges, Stewed. 

Truss them with the Avmcrs over the back and the le^s 
drawn in: cut a piece of pork or bacon in long strips, and 
put these into a stew-pan with a piece of butter the size 
of a Avahiut. Fry the bacon brown, and when quite done 
put in the partridges, and keep turning them until they 
ar« very brown, taking care that the bacon shall be as 
much on the breast as possible ; then add about a teacupful 
of gravy and some trimmings of meat and vegetables. Have 
ready a large cabbage boiled ; wdicn you have well drained 
it, slice it in, adding butter, pepper, and salt ; let the Avliole 
stew gently for an hour, turning the birds frequently. Serve 
up with the bacon underneath, the cabbage round them, 
squeezed dry, and the sauce, which must be very carefully 
skimmed. 



53. Partridge, Roasted. 

Singe, draw, and wipe two fine young partridges : truss 
them neatly, and cover the breasts with a thin layer of lard, 
tying twice round. Lay them in a roasting-pan, spread- 
ing a little butter over each, and moistening with half a 
cupful of water. Put the pan in a brisk oven for twent}-- 
tive minutes, basting the birds occasionally. Dress each 
one on a bread canape, removing the strings. Decorate the 
dish with a little watercress. Strain the gravy into a sauce- 
bowl, and serve it separately, with half a pint of bread- 
sauce in another bowl. 



54. Partridge, Broiled. 

Cut the bird down the back, break the merry-thought, 
wdiich will allow it to be made quite flat ; cut off the feet 



POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 271 

at the joint, and skewer it like a fowl to broil ; dry flour and 
egg it, and sprinkle it with chopped herbs and bread-crumbs, 
well seasoned ; broil, and serve with a little good gravy, with 
a mushroom or two chopped up small. 



55. Partridge au Gratiu. 

Cut off the legs of roast partridges : put on the dish 
you intend to serve them in, a piece of butter rolled in 
bread raspings, with parsley, chives, shallots chopped finely, 
salt and pepper ; place the dish in a Dutch oven before the 
fire, and make a gratin of the contents ; add the partridge 
w^armed in a little broth (p. 77), and salt, pepper, parsley, 
and a dash of vinegar ; serve it on the gratin, covered with 
raspings. 



56. Chartreuse of Partridge. 

Take two old partridges ; singe, draw, and wipe them 
well ; truss them with their wings turned inside, and lay 
them on a roasting-pan with half a pinch of salt, and a 
little butter well spread over the breast, and put them 
on to roast for six minutes. Take a Charlotte mould which 
will hold three pints ; butter lightly, and decorate with 
small pieces of cooked carrot and turnip, cut very evenly 
with a vegetable-tube. When ready, fill the bottom with 
a layer of cooked cabbage : cut the partridges into pieces, 
put a layer of them on the cabbage, covering the holloAv 
spaces Avitli more cabbage ; lay on the top six shces of salted 
pork, add the rest of the partridges, and finish by covering 
the surface with cabbage, pressing it down carefully. Place 
the mould on a tin baking-dish, and put it in a moderate 
oven for fifteen minutes, leaving the oven-door 023en during 



272 THE THOIiOUGE GOOD COOK. 

the Avliole time. Have a hot dish ready, turn the mould 
upside down on it, and carefully draw off. Serve with 
a little half-glaze sauce (p. 353). 



57. Salmi Chaudfroid of Partridges. 

Cut up two roast partridges into small joints, and use 
their trimmings to prepare a stiffly reduced salmi sauce ; add 
thereto aspic jelly in the proportion of one-third ; mix to- 
gether, and use the sauce to mask the joints of the partridges, 
which, after the sauce has set firm upon them, are to be 
dished up in a pyramidal form, garnished with aspic jelly 
and a few truffles, or prepared white cocks'-combs. 



58. Partridges a la Chipolata. 

Brown some bacon cut into dice. Make a browning, into 
which you put the limbs of partridges ; pour over them some 
broth (p. 77) and a glass of white wine ; add mushrooms, 
the bacon, some button-onions fried in butter, and some 
boiled sausage-meat Avith the skin removed ; add a score 
of cfrilled chestnuts, and let all stew together, with a bunch 
of mixed herbs. When the fat is skimmed off and the sauce 
is properly reduced, serve with fried slices of bread. Truffles 
may also be added. It is necessary to pay great attention 
as to the time at which the several articles are put in the 
ragout (such as button-onions, mushrooms, etc.), each being 
added accordingly as it takes more or less time in cooking. 



POULTBY, GAME, ETC, 273 

59. Partridge aux Choux, plus Distinguee. 

Pick, clean, singe, and truss two partridges ; put them 
into a stew-pan Avitli some butter and a pinch of flour ; pour 
in three glasses of broth (p. 77), add a quarter of a pound 
of bacon cut into dice, with a bunch of mixed herbs ; leave 
the whole to stew. Put into another stew-pan a cabbage, with 
three-quarters of a pound of salt pork and two spoonfuls of 
fat ; fill up with water, and let it boil till three-parts done. 
Cut up a red carrot into round pieces about the size of half- 
a-crown, and then a paler carrot and a saveloy, in a similar 
fashion. Butter a saucepan and place the slices of carrot 
at the bottom in circles, mixing their colours with those of 
the savelo}^ Cut up the pork, boiled with the cabbage, into 
slices of the breadth of two fingers and the length of one, 
making six pieces, which place upright at equal distances 
round the second stew-pan. Drain the cabbage, and put a 
layer of it over the carrots ; place some also between the 
upright pieces of pork and the two j^artridges in the middle, 
and cover them again with cabbage, if there be any remain- 
ing. Dilute with gravy or broth the liquor in the stew-pan in 
which the partridges were stewed : strain it, and pour it into 
the pan containing the partridges, and set the whole to stew 
half an hour, taking care thfit it does not adhere to the pan. 
When done, place a dish upside down over the stew-pan, and 
turn up the latter. If the ragout be not equally browned, 
colour it with a little grav}' or caramel. 



60. Minced Pheasant. 

Put one or two pheasants, as required, on the spit ; take 

them down when three-fourths roasted. AVhen pheasants 

are plentiful, the legs are kept back for purees. Put the 

other parts, nicely cut up, skinned, and trimmed, into a stew- 

s 



274 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

pan ; place the skin and trimmings in another stew-pan with 
an ounce of ham, three shallots, a sprig of thyme, a bay- 
leaf, a blade of mace, a few peppercorns, allspice, and a fcAv 
mushroom parings. Let the whole remain ten minutes in 
two tablespoonfuls of broth, hot ; then add half a pint of 
brown sauce, with a glass of Madeira or sherry, reduced. Let 
it "simmer fifteen or twenty minutes, skim well, and throw 
the whole into a mortar ; lightly pound it a few minutes, and 
rub it through a tammy. Put this puree over the pieces of 
pheasant ; keep moving them on the fire till hot, but do not 
let them boil. You Avill most probably require a little more 
broth or sauce to bring to the consistency of thick Bechamel. 
Keep hot in the metal bath. Cut the crust of a French 
roll in small fillets, or fry the crumb — cut up in the same way ; 
glaze and arrange these fillets round the dish in which you 
put the salmi, and mask it well with its sauce. 



61. Grouse Pie. 

If the birds are small, keep them whole ; if large, divide 
or quarter them. Season them highly, and put plenty of 
butter in the dish above and below them, or lay a beef- 
steak in the bottom of the dish. Cover the whole with a 
good puff paste, and take care not to bake the pie too much. 
A hot sauce made of melted butter, the juice of a lemon, 
and a glass of claret, and poured into the pie when to be 
served hot, is an improvement, and does not overpower 
the native flavour of the game. 



62. Another Grouse Pie. 

Cut up a brace of grouse, each of them in five parts, 
and season with pepper and salt. Mask the bottom of 



FOULTBY, GAME, ETC. 275 

a pie-disli -with a layer of game forcemeat, on wliicli place 
the pieces of grouse ; sprinkle over a little cooked fine herbs ; 
fill the cavities between the pieces with a few yolks of hard- 
boiled eggs, and place on the top of the grouse a few slices 
of raw ham ; pour in good gravy, to half the height ; cover 
the pie with paste, egg it, and put it in a moderate oven 
for one hour and a half ; when done, set it on another dish. 



63. Grouse, Boasted a la Sam Ward. 

Take two fine fat grouse — pick, singe, draw, and dry 
them well; then truss them nicely. Place them in a 
roasting-pan, putting inside of each bird a piece of broiled 
toast four inches long and two wide. Drip in on each toast, 
with a sjDOon, a small glassful of good Madeira or sherry ; 
season the grouse with a pinch of salt ; spread a little butter 
over. Put them in a brisk oven, and let cook for eighteen 
minutes, taking care to baste them frequently. Lay them on 
a, hot dish, untruss, strain the gravy over, and decorate 
with a little watercress. Serve with a little red currant 
jelly, separately. 



64. Grouse, Boasted Plain. 

Singe, draw, wipe, and truss two fine fat grouse. Place 
them in a roasting-pan with half a cupful of water; spread 
a little butter over each, and season with a pinch of salt. 
Put them into a brisk oven and cook for eighteen minutes, 
taking care to baste frequently with their own gravy ; then 
untruss. Have a hot serving-dish ready, place two bread 
canapes (see No. 69) on it, arrange the grouse over, and 
decorate the dish with a little watercress. Strain the gravy 
into a sauce-bowl, and serve separately, 
s 2 



276 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

65. Grouse, Broiled with Bacon. 

Singe, draw, and wipe nicely two fine fat grouse. Split 
them in two through the back without separating the parts ; 
lay them on a dish, and season with a pinch of salt, half 
a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonfnl of sweet oil. Roll 
them in well ; then put them to broil on a brisk tire for seven 
minutes on each side. Prepare a hot dish with six smal! 
toasts, arrange the grouse over, spread a gill of Maitre d'Hotel 
butter on top, and garnish with six thin slices of broiled 
bacon ; then serve. 



66. Grouse ^ la Gun-room. 

Prepare two young but full-grown grouse, roast one of 
them underdone, and make forcemeat of the other ; when the 
roasted one is cold, cut it into eight pieces — that is, tAvo 
wings, two legs, two jDieces of the back, and tAvo pieces of 
the breast; cover each piece all over with the forcemeat 
the sixth of an inch in thickness, Q^g each piece over, and 
place them in a buttered saute-pan, just cover them with a 
little Avhite stock, and boil gently ten minutes ; lay them 
on a cloth to drain, put a little mashed potato on the 
bottom of yoiu' dish, build the pieces in pyramid, and have 
ready the following sauce : — Chop the bones of the grouse 
very small, and put them in a stew-pan, with three i)ints 
of broth free from salt, an onion, and a little celery, with 
a bunch of parsley, and a few cloves ; boil gently half an hour; 
pass the stock through a cloth into a stew-pan, reduce to a 
very thin glaze ; then mix a tablespoonfnl of the best arrow- 
root with half a glassful of sherry and a little cold broth ; 
pour this into the gravy, keep the latter stirred, season a little 
more if required, and when boiling, sauce over and serve. 



POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 277 

67. Salmi of Grouse k la Farisienne. 

Singe, draw, wipe, and truss, two fine fat grouse ; season 
with a pinch of salt, spread a few small bits of butter on 
the birds ; then place in a toasting-pan, and put them in 
a brisk oven to cook for eight minutes. Untruss, and cut 
away the wings, legs, and breasts. Put an ounce of good 
butter into a saucepan with half a medium-sized carrot cut in 
very small pieces, half an onion cut the same, a sj^rig of 
thyme, two bay-leaves, and six Avholo peppercorns. Reduce 
to a good golden colour for about five minutes, then hash the 
bodies of the two grouse, and add them to the other in- 
gredients. Moisten with a pint of good sauce, half a glassful 
of good sherry, half a cupful of mushroom liquor, and the 
zest of a lemon ; season with half a pinch of salt, half a pinch 
of pepper, and a third of a pinch of nutmeg; let cook for 
twenty minutes. Now put the wings, legs, and breasts into a 
separate saucepan, and strain the above sauce over the parts, 
adding six minced mushrooms and tAvo minced truflfles. Let 
cook for three minutes, then dress neatly on a hot dish, and 
serve with crusts on top, and paper ruffles. 



68. Salmi of Grouse with Claret. 

Cut up two roast grouse in joints : skin them, and throw 
the trimmings and skin into a stew-pan, Avith two sliced 
shallots, a few mushroom parings, a clove, half a blade of 
mace, a little allspice, and a few pej)percorns ; heat the whole 
in a little broth at the side of the fire ; pour in half a pint 
of brown sauce ; havino- boiled and clarified it, add two 
or three glasses of reduced claret, let the whole boil down 
rather thick, and strain it over the joints of grouse. You 
may ornament the dish with a few pieces of bread, fried 
and glazed. 



278 THE THOnOUGH GOOD COOK. 

69. Canapes for Grouse. 

Cut off a loaf of bread two slices about an inch and a 
half thick ; trim neatly, pare off" the crusts, then cut out 
a piece in the centre of each, from end to end, so that 
the cavity will hold the bird nicely when sending to the 
table. Spread a little butter over them, place on a tin plate, 
then brown in the hot oven until they obtain a good golden 
colour. Remove them from the oven, arrano^e them on a 
hot dish, and they Avill be ready to serve. 



70. Grouse Braised with Cabbage. 

I have given 3'ou numerous recipes for cooking grouse, but 
to these I may add one for grouse braised with cabbage. Draw 
the legs as you would those of chickens for boiling ; cover the 
bottom of your stew-pan with fat bacon, a few shallots, a bunch 
of thyme, parsley, a few blades of mace, two or three bay- 
leaves ; moisten with a pint of stock, and then put in your 
grouse. Blanch two cabbages cut in quarters, boil till half 
done, press them in a cloth, tie each bundle up separately, 
and put them in the pan with the birds. They will take 
about an hoiu- over a slow fire ; when done, strain off the 
liquor and skim the fat, lay a little butter in the pan, put 
it over the fire, and as soon as it is melted, throw in as 
much flour as will absorb it. Then put in, little by little, 
the liquor in which the grouse was cooked : keep stirring 
while on the fire, and when it has boiled for a few miiiutes 
strain it off' into another pan. Season it by putting in a 
little cayenne and lemon-juice. Dish your grouse with the 
cabbage round it, and the sauce poured over all. The French 
garnish this braise of grouse with carrots : but I prescribe 
only cabbage. 

If you do not see your way to dressing grouse in this 
fashion, keep this recipe for the time when partridge shoot- 
ing begins. Partridge Avith cabbage is a perfectly lovely dish 



POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 279 

(see No. 59) ; but please not to run away with the notion, 
inculcated by some heterodox cook, that an old and tough 
bird is good enough for braising. Your partridge should 
be as young and tender as "Little Billie" in Thackeray's 
ballad. 

I cannot pass on without remarking that although " the 
wav of an easrle in the air " was amonsf the four thinc^s 
which the Wise Man owned were too wonderful for him, 
yet Solomon, had he studied grouse, might have been 
fain to admit that the ways of this bird were even more 
wonderful, in the sense of being mysterious, than those of 
the eagle. The very etymology of " grouse " is doubtful,, 
although the learned Wedgwood thinks it is derived from 
the English " grice," a moor-fowl. But then a grice means 
also a little pig just one year old, and a grouse has certainly 
nothing porcine about it. The French have no term for 
a grouse more specific than " cock of the heath," and the 
Italians call the bird " mountain cock." The well-known 
moor-fowl or red grouse of Britain is now often classed by 
naturalists with the ptarmigan, apart from the members 
of the genus tetrao, or true grouse ; although it is a species 
to which the name is exclusively applied b}' British sports- 
men, who are superbly ignorant of the fact that the tetrao 
genus includes the capercailzie, the black cock, and the 
prairie-hen of the Rocky Mountains. In America I have 
often met with the ruffed grouse, which was known sometimes 
as a partridge and sometimes as a pheasant. On the whole, 
it is perhaps quite sufficient to know that the grouse is 
one of the most delicious of edible birds, and that grouse- 
shooting begins on the 12th of August. 

71. Salmi of Woodcock. 

Tlie same operation is required as for the salmi of par- 
tridges (No. 57). Instead of boiling the trimmings in the 



280 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

sauce, take off the members, and pound the remainder, to- 
gether with the trimmings, in a mortar until you are able 
to strain it through a tamm}''. When you have skimmed 
the fat from the sauce and given a good seasoning, moisten 
the pounded meat with it ; then strain it through a tammy, 
and put it over the legs in a metal bath. The salmi must be 
made hot, but without boiling. Serve up with slices of 
frfed bread cut into hearts and glazed. 



72. Woodcocks and Snipe. 

Woodcocks, like snipes, are only good when they are 
fat. The most favourite parts are the legs and the intes- 
tines. The fillets of woodcocks, for those persons who do 
not like their meat underdone, are tough and without savour. 
They are held in high estimation Avhen roasted, or en salmi. 
A puree of woodcock is also served occasionally. Although 
woodcocks and snipes are cooked in but very few ways, they 
may be dressed in as many modes as 3'oung partridges. 

French cooks stuff woodcocks with chopped truffles, and 
either roast them or stew them with fire under and over 
the pot. The trail is sometimes cooked in gravy and butter, 
and poured over the toast. 



73. To Broast Woodcocks, Snipes, Hails, and 
Ortolans. 

Keep them till tender. They must not be drawn, as the 
mtestines are considered a delicacy. (This rule admits of 
exceptions. The proverb says : " What is one man's meat 
is another man's poison.") Tie them on a bird-spit, which fix 
to the spit, and lay down to a clear, brisk fire. Place slices 



POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 281 

of toast in tlie dripping-pan to catch the trail. These 
birds, Hke moor-game, require to be dekiged with butter in 
basting. Dish them on the toasts, pour clear brown beef 
grav}^, very hot, into the dish. They will take from twenty- 
live to thirty minutes, in proportion to the size. Sauce : 
Pleydel's sauce for wild fowl. Garnish with slices of bitter 
orange, or lemon, and fried bread-crumbs. 



282 



Section VI.— ENTREMETS. 



1. Rabbits and Onions. 

As this disli is of the Enghsh school, it M'ill not require 
many observations ; but I shall recommend that old rabbits 
be never used, as they always spoil both the taste and the 
look. 

Take one or two rabbits, skin them and skewer them 
as for boiling; put them into warm water in order to 
extract all the blood ; when they are very white, boil 
them in boiling water and a little salt, to prevent them 
from skimming. An hour is sufficient to boil them if 
they are young. The sauce as follows: — Peel a dozen 
white onions, take the tops and the tails off, then cut 
them into six pieces, put them to boil in boiling water, 
with a little salt; when nearly done, drain them on a 
sieve, put them into a clean towel, squeeze out the Avater, 
then chop them very fine on the table ; put them into a 
stew-pan, Avith half a quarter of a pound of butter ; let 
them fry, to drain the water away ; then put half a spoon- 
ful of flour, mix w^ell together, and moisten with cream 
or milk, according to your means — cream is preferable. 
Next, let this sauce reduce on a sharp fire, put some salt 
and pepper to it, and make it rather thick. Drain the 
rabbits, and cover them with the sauce. 



2. Fillets of Rabbits d, la Pompadour. 

Take the fillets of four young rabbits : cut each fillet 
into two, lengthwise, and keep them as long as possible. 



ENTBEMETS. 283 

Make a sauce d'attelets (see Hatelets sauce, p. 335), put 
the fillets into the sauce after havinfi^ dusted them over 
with salt and pepper. Let this preparation cool, without, 
however, getting cjuite cold, yet sutiiciently so to enable 
you to lay some round the fillets. Now, having dipped 
the fillets into crumbs of bread, break three eggs into 
an earthen pan with a little salt, beat them, throw in 
the fillets, dip them lightly a second time into crumbs 
of bread, and fry them of a nice colour. Dish them in 
the shape of a pile, which could not be done if they were 
not kept crisp. Send up, with the Pompadour sauce in the 
middle. 



3. Gratin of Rabbits. 

Take a couple of rabbits that have been roasted; cut 
off the whole of the fleshy parts ; then pare those parts 
that have sinews about them ; mince the meat very fine, 
and put this mince into a smooth sauce reduced ; take 
a little of the liquor, which gratinez (this means to boil 
it in a silver dish till it sticks at the bottom without 
burning). When the preparation is cold, stick a border of 
soft bread all round the inside of the dish, and put 
your mince into the middle ; level it well with a knife ; 
powder crumbs of bread over it, which baste with melted 
butter ; then put crumbs a second time, and baste with 
butter again. Now make it brown all over with a salamander, 
because if you were to put the dish into an oven hot 
enough to give it a colouring, the gratin would burn. Keep 
it hot, and send it up either with slices of bread fried in 
butter all round the dish, cut in the shape of corks, or Avith 
flowerets made of puff-paste. 



£84 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

4. Rabbits a la Venetienne. 

Take three nice young rabbits ; skin and empty them ; 
then cut them into pieces in the following manner : — 
Take off the shoulders, separate the head from the neck, 
and divide tlie back into four parts : take off the legs also, 
and cut each of them into two pieces. Have ready half a 
pottle of mushrooms chopped very fine, with parsley and 
shallots, also chopped fine. Put a small lump of butter into 
a stew-pan with a little rasped bacon ; add the sweet herbs, 
etc., with a little salt, pepper and allspice ; let them stew for 
a short time on a slow fire. When these are sufficiently 
fried, put in the rabbits, and keep them on the fire till 
they are sufficiently done. Then take the limbs out from 
the seasoning, and lean the stew-pan sidewa3'S, to skim the fat 
that comes uppermost ; put a spoonful of " turned " sauce, 
or, if you have none, a small teaspoonful of flour, moistened 
with a spoonful or two of broth ; let it boil a few minutes, 
and make a thickening of the yolks of four eggs ; put the 
juice of a lemon and a little cayenne pepper ; stir the sauce 
well ; if it happens to be too thick, make it thinner with 
a spoonful of broth ; keep it quite hot, throw the members 
into the sauce again, and send up quite hot. This sauce 
must be rather highly seasoned. 



5. White Gibelots of Rabbits. 

Take two young rabbits and make a gibelot, but after 
having dredged with flour and moistened with broth, let 
the wdiole stew for about an hour. Next take off all the 
scum and fat ; shift the members into another stew-pan ; 
reduce the sauce, strain it through a tammy over the 
members, lay the gibelot on the fire, and wdien it boils, 
thicken it with the yolks of four eggs and the juice of a 
lemon. This sauce, although white, must be highly seasoned. 



ENTREMETS. 285 

Ohs. — If you want to make the gibelot whiter, disgorge 
the rabbits, and blanch them. 



6. Mince of Babbits an Fumet. 

Take the fillets of rabbits that have been roasted, and 
pare the sinews ; then make a mince, but hold your knife 
on the slope, that the thin slices may curl like shavings ; put 
the mince into a reduced smooth sauce mixed with some 
glaze of game. Do not forget to pour into the mince a little 
thick cream, to give it a white colour and make it mellower. 
You may put the mince either in a border of puff-paste, a 
vol-au-vent, a rice casserole, a turban, a grenade, a gratin, 
patties, etc. 



7. Croquettes of Rabbits. 

Cut the meat of young roasted rabbits into dice, which 
throw into a smooth sauce reduced, adding a little glaze of 
game. Let this cool, then roll it into whatever shape you 
please ; but, in my opinion, those that are the least handled 
arc the best. Fry them and send up like other croquettes, 
garnished with fried parsley in the middle of the dish. 



8. Babbit Fie. 

Take a young rabbit, three-quarters of a pound of veal 
cutlet a quarter of an inch thick, and three ounces of bacon 
cut very thin. Cut up the rabbit, each joint making two 
or three pieces. Season with the rind of half a lemon, two 
saltspoonfuls of white pepper, a little nutmeg, a dash of 



286 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

cayenne, and a teaspoonful of salt. Cover it with a paste, 
which make out of a pound of flour, half a gill of cold 
water, and the juice of half a lemon ; knead it out flat : lay- 
in half a pound of good butter ; roll it out four times, fold 
it into a bolster form, and let it stand in a cool place for 
a little. When you have covered the pie with it, you must 
bake in a moderate oven for two hours and a quarter, or 
thereabouts. 



9. Fillets of Young Babbits k I'Orlie. 

Take your rabbits ; detach the fillets and little fillets ; 
cut the large fillets of an equal size, marinade all in lemon- 
juice, a little parsley, a shallot cut into slices, a little thyme, 
a bay-leaf, salt, pepper, etc. ; leave them in the marinade 
for tAvo hours. Drain, and dip them into the white of an 
egg which has been well beaten, and then into some flour 
mixed with a few crumbs of bread. Fry them of a fine 
brown, and serve under them a Spanish sauce of game. 
You must observe particularly that the fillets are to be 
underdone. 



10. Croquettes of Sweetbread. 

Take such sweetbreads as have already been served, cut 
them into as small dice as possible. Have a good smooth 
reduced sauce ready. Throw the dice of sweetbreads into the 
sauce and give them a boil, that the}' may taste of the sauce. 
Then lay them on a plate to cool. When cold, roll them 
into any shape you like, oval or long. Serve up with parsley, 
fried green, in the middle. 

Sometimes you may spread a very thin puff paste, and 
wrap some of the meat of croquettes in it ; put some crumbs 
of bread over it, and fry it of a very good colour. This is 



ENTREMETS. 287 

what is called rissole. The rissole differs from the croquette 
in this j^articular only — that the latter is wrapped up in 
crumbs of bread and the former in paste. 



11. Beef Kidney Pie. 

Cut some kidneys into thin slices and place a layer 
of them in the bottom of 3'our pie-dish ; on the top put 
chopped sweet herbs, such as parsley, thyme, shallots, with 
mushrooms, pepper, and salt ; continue until the dish is 
full, then cover the whole with slices of bacon ; finish your 
pie, and bake it in the oven. When it is done, pick out the 
bacon and skim off the fat ; take a glass of white wine and 
a tolerable quantity of cullis, and reduce to the consistence 
of a good sauce ; then squeeze a Seville orange into it. Serve 
the pie hot. 



12. Sheeps' Kidneys, Broiled. 

Wash and dr}^ some nice kidneys; cut them in half, 
and Avith a small skewer keep them open ui. imitation of 
two shells; season them with salt and pepper, and dip 
them into a little fresh melted butter. Broil first the side 
that is cut, and be careful not to let the gravy droj) in 
taking them off" the gridiron. Serve them in a hot dish, 
with finely chopped parsley, melted butter, the juice of a 
lemon, pep]3er, and salt, putting a little upon each kidney. 
This makes an excellent breakfast for a company of 
sportsmen. 



13. Kidneys, "Tossed" in White Wine. 

Cut up a beef kidney very fine, throwing aside the cord 
or sinewy part ; put in a saute-pan w^ith a piece of butter 



288 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

and place the pan over a brisk fire, adding a spoonful of 
flour and half a glass of white wine, pepper, salt, parsley, 
and chives, chopped small. When the sauce is reduced 
to its proper thickness, serve immediately. Indeed, 3'ou 
cannot send up too promptly, if the kidneys are not to 
harden. Yeal and mutton kidneys are prepared in the 
same way. 

14. Liver and Bacon. 

Cut half a pound of bacon into thin rashers, and one 
pound of calves' liver into slices the third of an inch 
thick. Fry both sides of the bacon brown ; place it round 
a dish before the fire. Dredge flour on both sides of the 
liver ; fry it slowly till brown. Place it on the dish. Pour 
away the fat ; dredge a dessertspoonful of dr}- flour into 
the frying-pan ; pour in a gill of boiling water ; add a 
dash of pepper and half a saltspoonful of salt ; shake the 
pan till the gravy thickens and browns ; pour it over tlie 
liver and bacon, and serve at once. 



15. Venison. 

The haunch of venison is usually roasted ; cover it with 
fat bacon, and moisten it occasionally while roasting. Those 
who like garlic can add a little. The fore-quarter is also 
roasted, but after covering it with fat bacon, spit it and 
baste frequently. When ready for serving, almost sever the 
shoulder from the rest, and pour between a Maitre d'Hotel 
sauce (p. 348). 

16. Jugged Venison. 
This is composed of the shoulders and the breast. Make 
a sauce well browned; put to it a small quantity of sugar; 



ENTBEMETS. 289 

thin it with water : put in the pieces of venison, sonic shallots 
chopped fine, a large glass of good red wine, fat bacon cut 
into small squares, some salt, and a little pepper and thyme ; 
stew the whole together. Just before serving, skim oft' the 
fat : set the pieces of meat on the dish, and if you like, 
add a few chopped truffles to the sauce, which serve in the 
middle ; the darker the sauce is, the better. In serving, 
put in a piece of sugar the size of a nut. 



17. Jugged Hare. 

In two and a half quarts of water put half a pound of 
scrag of mutton, half a jiound of gravy beef, half a pound 
of a shank of veal, and half a slice of ham, all cut small ; 
one turnip, one carrot, an onion and a half chopped, a 
little mace, salt, and popper; stew these ingredients for 
one and a half or two hours, and strain the soup. The next 
day cut a hare into small pieces, season them with pepper, 
salt, a quarter of a grated nutmeg, and half the peel of a 
small lemon. Place them in a stone jar, and fill it up with 
the prepared soup ; put a bung in the jar, tie a bladder 
and a bit of linen over, and set it in a pot of hot water ; 
a,s the water wastes, till up with more boiling water, and 
let boil for an hour and a half. When cold, take off the 
fat, and pick out the lemon-peel. This quantity will make 
one tureen full. When to be used it is thickened with a 
tablespoonful of flour, kneaded Avith a small bit of butter, 
and a quarter of a pint of port wine. It will keep perfectly 
-Sfood for a fortnitrht. 



18. Hare Pate, en Terrine. 

Bone a hare : take one pound of fillet of veal, one pound 
•of fresh lean pork, a little beef fat, parsley, chives, thyme, a 
T 



290 THE TIIOIiOUGH GOOD COOK. 

bay-leaf, garlic, pepper, and cloves ; chop tlieiii all up A^cry 
line ; line a small, wide-mouthed dish (the lid of which 
shuts closely) with slices of bacon that entirely cover it : 
put in the hare, etc., mixed with half a pound of bacon 
cut up into pieces ; pour over it a glass of brandy ; cover it 
with slices of bacon, and close up the lid carefully with 
paste. Let it bake four hours. 



19. Hare Pie. 

AVith a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, salt, 
and Avater, prepare some short paste, and lay it aside for an 
hour. Skin a tender hare, draw it, slip off the shoulders 
and legs from the body, and bono them. Pare the meat, 
and cut it in squares, chop it with its Aveight of fat fresh 
bacon and six ounces of raAv ham ; Avhen the Avhole is avoU 
chop]:)ed, pound, season, and add to it a few tablespoonfids 
of cooked tine herbs, mushrooms, parsley, and onion. Lard 
the loins, cut them up in pieces, put them into a stCAv-pan 
Avith melted bacon and half cook them ; remove the meat 
from tlie bones, and put them by. With all the bones 
and the neck of the hare, a fcAv trimmings of ham, vegetables, 
aromatics, and a little Avine, prepare some good gravy ; Avhcn 
it is 25'^«sed and skinuned of fat, reduce it to a half-glaze 
Avith a few tablespoonfuls of Madeira, and thicken it Avith 
a little sauce ; then keep it in the metal-bath. Mask the 
bottom of a large pie-dish Avith a layer of prepared raw 
mince, Avhereon place a layer of good sauer-kraut, cooked 
Avitli six ounces of streaky bacon and cooled ; cut up the 
bacon in squares, Avhich mix Avith the pieces of hare and 
a fcAv raAv black truffles cut up in slices ; place the meat 
in a dome-like shape on the sauer-kraut, mask it Avith 
the remainder of the mince ; noAv moisten the rim of the 



ENTREMETS. 201 

dish, lay on a strip of paste, moisten the paste, and cover 
the pie Avith a large thin flat of short crust. Bake it for 
an hour and a quarter in a moderate oven. When the 
pie is taken out of the oven, pour in through a hole 
which should be left in the top the prepared sauce, and 
dish up. 



20. Boned Hare. 

Bone a hare entirely, lard it with large pieces of bacon, 
season with spice. Roll it up in such a manner that, 
the thinner parts being under the back, it forms a kind of 
ball, which tie up. Put it into a stcAV-pan with onions, 
carrots, and a bunch of mixed herbs, which tie up with 
the bones of the hare. Cover the hare with slices of bacon, 
adding two glasses of Avhite wine, the same of broth, and 
a little salt ; put a sheet of buttered paper over it, and let 
it stew. Serve it cold or hot, with the gravy skimmed of 
its fat and passed through a sieve. 



21. Neck of Veal k la Mirepoix. 

Make a mirepoix with rasped bacon, butter, a bit of ham, 
thyme, bay-leaves, pepper, salt, etc. Fry the whole on a 
slow fire. AVhen that is done, put with it the neck of veal, 
fried; stew it a little, and let it cool. When it is cold, take 
two sheets of white paper, butter one of them, and trim 
it Avith layers of bacon. Then lay the mirepoix over the 
bacon, and carefully close the paper. Wrap the whole up 
in several sheets of paper, and bake it in an oven, which, 
however, must not be too hot. It will take an hour and a 
half to do. When done, remove the paper, and send up 
with a Spanish (p. 347) or Italian (p. 336) sauce. Mirepoix is 
T 2 



292 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

the name of the seasoned fat snbstance put round the meat 
to prevent its drying, and also to give it taste ; and you must 
remember to make no more than is wanted for the size of 
the dish. Half a quarter of a pound of butter, the same 
quantity of ham, thyme, bay-leaves, salt, pepper, etc., will bo 
sufficient for the one here efiven. 



22. Neck of Veal with Sweet Herbs. 

Lard the thick part of a neck of veal after having neatly 
trimmed it ; put it into a deep dish to marinade for three 
hours with parsley, chives, mushrooms, a bay-leaf, a little 
thyme, two shallots, all chopped very fine, adding pepper, 
grated nutmeg, and a little oil. When the meat has absorbed 
the flavour, roast it at a moderate fire, covering it with this 
seasoning, and tying round it two sheets of white paper Avell 
buttered. When it is done, take off the paper, and with 
a knife remove all the seasoning which adheres either to the 
meat or to the paper, and put it into a saucepan with a little 
gravy, a dash of vinegar, a piece of butter rolled in flour, salt 
and pepper. Boil this up for a few minutes, and pour it 
over the meat. 



23. Neck of Veal a la Creme. 

Take the same part of veal as is used for the cutlets. 
Cut the bones short enough to enable you to roll the flanks 
underneath ; give it a square shape ; marinade it for a couple 
of hours with oil, parsley, sliced shallots, pepper, salt, thyme, 
and bay-leaves. Fasten it on the spit, so that the shape be 
not altered, and then wrap it up in buttered paper. When 
it has roasted for an hour and a quarter, take oif the paper. 
Have ready a smooth sauce reduced (p. 347), Avhich you pour 



EyTREMETS. 293 

over it, and witli which 3'ou baste it till the sauce adheres 
all round. Then serve up with a smooth sauce under it. 



24. Veal Cutlets ib la Mayonnaise. 

Trim the cutlets ; lard them with cooked ham and 
truffles cut in even httle squares, alternately, chequer-like ; 
put them into a stew-pan, and let them stew ; then glaze 
the cutlets, place them on a dish and cover Avith aspic 
(pp. 232-33). When all is cold, trim the cutlets again, 
neatly. Lay some aspic in the bottom of an entree dish, 
place the cutlets on it in a circle ; garnish the dish with 
crusts of jelly, and pour into the centre of the dish a 
mayonnaise a la Ravigote (pp. 338 and 342). 



25. Fillet of Veal a la Bourgeoise aux Petits Fois. 

Put into a saucepan a little bacon cut into dice, or a 
piece of butter ; lay in the fillet, from which remove the 
centre-bone ; lard with slices of bacon seasoned with sweet 
herbs ; then powder both sides with Hour; let simmer slowly ; 
season with sweet herbs, a carrot, a little parsle}^ and half 
a ba3--leaf ; brown the meat nicely on both sides, and moisten 
it with some broth or some boiling water. When half cooked 
ndd some peas, and let it sinnncr till done. 



28. To Dress a Fillet of Veal tlie Italian Way. 

Take a young, tender tillet of veal, and pick awa}' all 
the skins in the fold of the flesh ; after you have picked 
it out clean so that nothing hard is left, put to it some 



294 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

good Avhite Avine (that is not too sweet) in a bowl, and 
wash it and crush it well in the Avine ; do so twice, then 
strcAv upon it a powder that is called tamava in Italy, and 
as much salt as Avill season it Avell ; pour to it as much Avhite 
Avine as Avill coA^er it Avhen it is thrust down into a narroAv 
pan ; lay a trencher on it and a Aveight to keep it doAvn : 
let -it lie two nights and one day. Put a little pepper to it 
Avhen you lay it in the pan, and after it is soused so long, 
take it out and put it into a pipkin with some good beef 
broth ; you must not use any of the pickle but only beef 
broth that is SAveet and not salt, flaA'oured, lioweA'er, Avitli a 
fcAv whole cloves and mace ; coA'cr it close and set it on the 
embers, and let it stew till it be done. If you follow these 
directions you Avill tind it to be very tender, and of an excel- 
lent taste. It must be scrA^ed Avith the sauic broth — as much 
as Avill coA'er it. 

To make the sauce, take of coriander seed two ounces, 
aniseed one ounce, fennel seed one ounce, cloves two ounces, 
cinnamon one ounce. These must be beaten into a gross 
poAvder, putting into it a little Aviiiter saA'Oury, if you like 
it ; keep this in a close-stopped vial for use. 



27. Breast of Veal k la Ponlette. 

Cut the veal in stpiare pieces and blanch theui : put 
them into a saucepan Avith a little butter, pep[)er, and salt: 
Avhcn the butter is melted, add a pinch of flour and some 
parsley, and pour in some Avater or broth : stew for an 
hour and a half, and then add a dash of vinegar, Avith 
the yolks of two eggs beaten up. TIk' pieces loft may 
be fried. 



ENTREMETS. 295 

28. Minced Veal a la Catalan. 

Mince two pounds of lean veal, and brown it in a sauce- 
pan with three tablespoonfuls of sweet-oil, one onion cut in 
quarters, and half a pinch of green pepper. When of a tine 
colour, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, and mix thoroughly. 
Moisten with one pint of white broth, and season with a 
heaped tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper; stir 
briskly, add a bunch of herbs, three cloves of crushed garlic^ 
and a gill of tomato sauce. Cook well for twenty-tive minutes, 
then serve, sprinkling chopped parsley over the mince. 



29. Boiled Knuckle of Veal. 

Put enough water over the meat to cover it. Let it 
boil gently, and when it reaches boiling-point, add as 
much salt as will fill a dessertspoon; keep it well skinuned, 
iind boil until tender. Serve with parsley and butter. If 
you Iind it insipid, serve with slices of boiled bacon. Allow 
twenty minutes for each pound of meat. Three-quarters 
of a pound of rice may be boiled in it, or green peas, 
cucumbers, turnips, or small spring onions, allowing them 
as much time from the cooking of the veal as they 
require. 



30. Calves' Feet. 

Stew a few calves' feet, and when they are done, drain 
them. Then take a little fine stutiing — namel\^ a farce 
made of all sorts of dressed meat, etc., eggs excepted, which 
Avould make the whole stick together. When you have stuffed 
the middle of the calves' feet with the farce, give them a 
round shape, then dip them into an omelette seasoned 
with pepper and salt, and into crumbs of bread, twice over, 
and fry them till they are of a tine brown. Serve them 



296 THE TEOROrOH GOOD COOK. 

np "Nvitli fried parslc}- very green, and send up brown sauce 
in a boat. 



31. Calves' Feet au Naturel. 

Bone the calves' feet, remove the fat ; wash them 
thoroughly ; tie them together with string and blanch them 
in boiling-water ; then put them into a saucepan or a jar ; 
cover them with water and a thin, broad slice of bacon. Add 
a carrot, an onion, half a bay-lea^', some slices of lemon, 
and a little salt. Let boil for three hours. Before serving, 
mince separately a little parsle}^ and some shallots. In lieu 
of the shallots vou can use an onion. 



32. Sheep's Trotters, Fried. 

Clean some nice sheep's trotters ; scald and wash 
them in hot water, stew them in the sauce in which 
calf's head, plain (p. 228), is boiled, and bone them. Fiy, 
but not till ]_)rown, in a little butter, some carrots, onions, 
a little parslej'-root, all cut small, thyme, a shallot, a small 
bay-leaf, and a clove. When they begin to colour, moisten 
them with water and vinegar, mixed in equal parts, ar^d 
let stew till the vegetables are quite tender ; season with 
pepper and salt, and strain over the sheeji's trotters through 
a silk sieve. Then fry the trotters in this batter: — Put 
nearly four tahlespoonfuLs of flour into an earthen pan, 
Avith a little salt, a little olive oil, and as mu.ch gocd 
beer or water as Avill moisten the paste : when well mixed, 
add the beaten whites of two eggs : dip the trotters into 
this, and fry them instanth'. The marinade, or pickle, in 
which the trotters are laid, and the paste in which they 
are fried, may be used for beef and other meats. 

The same recipe may be followed exactly for calves" feet. 



EXTBEMETH. 297 

33. Sheep's Tail a I'Auglaise. 

Put the slieep's tail into a saucepan to boil ; take it 
out Avlien cooked ; egg-and-bread-crunib it and broil it till it 
is of a nice colour. This dish is served also as a hors-d'ceuvrc. 



34. Ox-Tails h. la Saint Lambert. 

Wash the tails in warm water, and put them into a 
saucepan Avith some slices of bacon, salt, pepper, spice, two 
carrots, two turnips, a head of celer}^ some onions, and a 
bunch of mixed herbs. When boiled tender, tixke out the 
tails, strain the sauco, make a puree of the vegetables, pour 
the whole over the tails, and serve. 



35. Ox-tail, Crumbed and Grilled. ' 

Cut the tail into large pieces, boil them in a saucepan 
and let them get cold ; season them with salt and })cpper, 
and having warmed some butter, soak them in it, and then 
cover them with crumbs of l)]-ead ; repeat the soaking and 
the crumbing ; then broil the pieces on a gridiron, and serve 
them on a sharp sauce (p. 84G). 



36. Neat's Tongue au Gratin. 

Having cut up a boiled or roasted tongue into thin slices, 
put into the dish in Avhicli you mean to send it to table a 
little broth, a dash of vinegar, some capers, parsle}', chives, 
shallots, and chervil (all cho])ped very line), salt, whole pep- 
per, and the raspings of bread ; arrange the slices of tongue 
neatl}' on this seasoning, and put more over it, finishing 
with bread raspings ; bake it in a Dutch oven. When served, 
pour a little more broth over it. 



298 THE THOnOUGH GOOD COOK. 

37. Sheep's Tongues a la Saint Lambert. 

Slice three onions, three carrots, three tnrnips, a head 
of celery, and some mushrooms: brown them in butter, 
then add salt, spice, a bunch of mixed herbs, two or three 
spoonfuls of broth, and a glass of white -wine. Put the 
tono'ues into this sauce ; when done, take them out and 
skin them. Strain the sauce, add a puree of any vegetables, 
and pour it over the tongues. 



38. To Boil Tripe. 

Clean it extremely Avell, and take off the fat : let it lie a 
night in salt and water: again wash it well, and let it lie in 
milk and water for the same length of time; then cut it into 
small pieces ; roll and tie them with thread : put them, with 
a clean-washed marrow-bone, into a linen bag: tie it up, 
and put it into a stew-pan that has a cover to tit quite 
close : till this up with water, and let it boil gently for six 
hours. Take the tripe out of the bag, put it into a jar, 
and pour over it the liquor in which it has been boiled. 
When to be dressed, boil some Avhole small onions in a 
part of the liquor, add a little salt, then put in the tripe, 
and heat it thoroughl}'. (Jr it may be fried in butter, 
fricasseed, or stewed in a brown sauce. 

Instead of being boiled in a bag, the tripe may bo put, 
with some salt and whole pepper, into a stoneware jar, which 
nmst luive a piece of linen tied over it, and a plate laid upon 
the top. The pot should always be kept full of boiling water 
and care should be taken that it does not boil into the jar. 



ENTREMETS. 299 

39. Tripe a la Bourgeoise. 

First boil the tripe, then cut it into pieces two inches 
long. Put them in a saucepan with a sHce of ham and a 
little bacon cut up in small pieces; season with an onion, a 
little garlic, and a bay-leaf; moisten with a very small 
quantity of the water in which the tripo has been boiled 
and let it simmer gently on a slow fire. 



40. Lamb Cutlets a la Soubise, 

Trim the cutlets ; lard them cross-Avise and cook them. 
When they are done, scrape the ends of the bones Avhite 
and place them on a dish. Serve with them Soubise sauce, 
of which the ingredients are onions, cream, consomme, thick 
Bechamel, salt, and peppercorns. 

41. Lamb Cutlets en Salpicou. 

Fry the cutlets lightly, or stew them ; take some salpicon 
(see p. 254) of chicken or of game ; cover the cutlets with 
this, and serve with Spanish sauce (p. 347). 



42. Resurrection Cutlets. 

Take some fine, tender cabbage-leaves, throw boiling water 
over them, and allow them to cool. Chop up some 
cold meat of any or all kinds you may have left over; 
season with pepper, salt, and mixed herbs and onions : 
moisten with a little meat-jelly or thick brown gravy, add a 
little lump of butter, and then cut the stalks of the cabbage- 
leaves ; put into each leaf a tablespoonful of mincemeat ; fold 



300 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

into a flat, round sha2)e, place in a stew-pan with a little 
butter, and cover up the saucepan with a napkin. Let the 
contents stew until done. If you cannot get cabbage-leaves, 
A'eo-etable-maiTow leaves will serve as well. 



43. Lamb Chops, Maisou d'Or. 

Pare neatly six lamb chops, make an incision in each one, 
and insert therein a slice of truffle. Season Avith a pinch ot" 
salt and half a pinch of pepper. Dip the chops in beaten 
egg, then in fresh bread-crumbs. Fry them in a stew-pan 
Avith two ounces of clarified butter for four minutes on each 
side, and serve Avith six lieart-shaped jjieces of fried bread, 
each one covered Avith some pate de foie gras and a gill of 
hot Madeira Avine sauce. Arrange a curled paper on the end 
of each choji. 



44. Mutton Chops. 

These must never be batted or beaten : season with pep])ei- 
and salt : broil over a clear fire: turn them frequently, so that 
they may retain their own graAy, and serve each chop on ii 
saparate hot plate. The addition of a little cho2>ped shallot 
and a l)it of fresli butter, placed under each chop, is no bad 
thing by way of relish. (See also p. 55.) 



45. Mutton Chops, Bretonne. 

Pare six nice mu,tt3n chops, season with a teaspoonful 
of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper, and pour a few drops of 
oil over each. Broil four minutes on each side. Arranse 
them on a dish, and serA'C Avith half a pint of puree of Avhito 



EXTEEMETS. 301 

beans mingled with two tablespoonfuls of good hot meat 
glaze. 



46. Mutton Chops, Bread-crumbed. 

Trim the chops ; season with pepper and salt ; pat closely 
some bread-crumbs on each, and then, having dipped them 
separately in some clarified butter, bread-crumb them again ; 
broil the chops on both sides over a clear lire ; dish them 
up, and serve with plain gravy under them. They may be 
served also with thick purees of peas, asparagus, turnips, 
chestnuts — in fact, all kinds of dressed vegetables, and Avith 
tomato (p. 349), Italian (p. 33G), or Robert (p. 343) sauce. 



47. Chops Soyer, with Potatoes. 

Take five pounds of saddle of mutton, cut and saw it 
into six pieces, crosswise. Flatten, pare, and trim. Season 
Avith one tablespoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of pepper. 
Broil the chops for six minutes on each side, place them 
on a hot dish, and serve Avith a garnishing of one pint 
of fried potatoes round the dish. 



48. Fork Chops, Broiled. 

Pork chops are cut from the neck or loin. Tliey require 
a great deal of the fire. They must be served broiling hot 
and Avith a hot graA-y, Avith Avhich a teas])oonful of made 
mustard and a little dry sage, puh'erised, may be mixed. 
Robert sauce possesses still more gusto for thoroughbred 
pork-eaters. StCAved cabbage may be served Avith the chops. 



302 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

I may here remark that bacon may be nicely broiled over 
a slow lire in a sheet of paper, tucked np in form of a 
small dripping-pan. 



49. Beef Steak, Saute, with Madeira. 

Pick out the skin and nerves from your steaks and cut 
them into equal scollops ; beat them and trim them into the 
form of a round ; melt some butter in a saute-pan, and lightly 
cook the steaks in it. When they are clone of a nice light 
colour, arrange them on a dish in the form of a crown, drain 
the butter from the pan, and put the liquor by ; then add a 
glass of Madeira, and reduce with a little veal glaze and a 
little Spanish sauce (p. 347), adding also a small quantity of 
jjimento butter. AYhen your sauce is of a nice dark colour, 
strain it through a sieve, and serve it with the steaks. 



50. Chateaubriand Steak. 

Cut the fillet of beef one and a half to two inches thick ; 
trim off all imnecessary fat, and skin ; season with salt, 
pepper and salad oil, and let it lie in the seasoning for at 
least one hour before cooking : then put it on oiled straws, 
between two thin slices from the neck of beef, which can 
afterwards be used up in other ways, and cook for twelve 
or fifteen minutes over a bright tire; dish it up, and serve 
with fried potatoes, and a sauce prepared thus : — Put a 
glassful of white wine in a stew-pan ; then mix into it one 
ounce of glaze and four tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (p. 329) ; 
boil up together, and add by degiees two ounces of fresh 
butter, working it in bit by bit ; when the butter has dis- 
solved, mix in a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half the 



ENTREMETS. 303 

juice of a lemon, and a tiny pinch of castor sugar. Pour 

over tlie meat and serve at once. Tlie fillet is best Avdien 
grilled. 



51. Beef-steak Fie. 

Beat some rump steaks with a rolling-pin, and season 
them Avitli pepper and salt. Put a good crust round the 
side, lay in the steaks, with as much water as Avill half 
fill the dish. Put on the cover, and let it be thoroughly 
baked. 

Another Way. 

Take three pounds of tender steaks, and cut them into 
small pieces. Chop six shallots and mix them with half 
an ounce of pepper and salt ; strev/ some over the bottom 
of the dish, then put in a layer of steaks, then another of 
the seasonino- and so on till the dish is full. Add half a 
gill of mushroom catsup and the same quantity of gravy, 
or red port; cover with paste and bake for two hours. 
Large oysters, that have been parboiled and bearded, will 
form an agreeable addition, and their liquor may be used 
instead of the catsup and wine. 



52. Beef Balls. 

Mince very finely a piece of tender beef, fat and lean ; 
mince an onion Avith some boiled parsley; add grated bread- 
crumbs, and season Avith pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and 
lemon-peel ; mix all together, and moisten it with a beaten 
Qg^ ; roll it into balls, Hour, and fry them in boiling fresh 
dripping. Serve them with fried bread-crumbs, or with a 
thickened brown gravy. 



304 THE THOnOrOH GOOD COOK. 

53. Beef Olives. 

Cut the beef into long thin steaks. Prepare a forcemeat 
made of bread-crumbs, minced beef suet, chopped parsley, 
a little grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; bind 
it with the yolks of beaten eggs. Put a layer of it over each 
steak ; roll and tie them with a thread ; fry them lightly 
in "beef dripping; put them in a stew-pan with some good 
brown gravy, a ghiss of white Avine and a little cayenne, 
and thicken with a little flour and butter; cover the pan 
cdosely, and let them stew gently for an hour. Before serving, 
add a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup ; garnish with cut 
pickles. 



54. Beef a la Mode. 

Take a piece of beef, either oft* the round or off the flank ; 
beat it, lard it with large pieces of bacon ; add half a calf s 
foot, an onion, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, 
thyme, a head of garlic, a few cloves, salt and pepper. Pour 
over the whole a glass of water, half a glass of white wine, 
or a spoonful of brandy, and let it stew till the meat is very 
tender. Then strain the sauce through a tammy, take off 
the fat, and serve. It requires at least four hours to stew 
beef a la mode, and it must be done over a gentle Are. Be 
sure that the saucepan lid fits close. 

A It other Way. 

Take the bone out of a small round of fine ox-beef. 
Cut some fat bacon in long strips: dip them into connnon 
and shallot vinegar mixed, and roll them in the following 
seasoning : — Grated nutmeg, black and Jamaica pepper, one 
or two cloves, and some salt, parsley, chives, lemon-thyme, 
knotted marjoram, and savoury, shredded quite small. Lard 
the beef very thickly, bind it firmly with tape, and rub the 



EN THE ME TS. 305 

outside Avith the seasoning. Put it into a saucepan, with 
the rind of a lemon, four large onions, the red part of 
three or four carrots and two turnips cut into dice, a 
teacupful of strong ale and one of vinegar. Let it stew 
for six or eight hours, turning it two or three times. Half 
an hour hefore serving, take out the beef and vcofetables. 
skim off the fat, strain the sauce, and thicken it with a 
little flour and water mixed smooth. Add a teacupful of 
port wine, return all into the pot, and let it boil. 



55. Short or Spiced Beef. 

{To be eaten cold.) 

Hang up ten or twelve pounds of the middle part of a 
brisket of beef for three or four days ; then rub well into 
it three ounces of finely- powdered saltpetre, and, if spice is 
approved of, one ounce of allspice and half an ounce of 
black pepper. Let it stand all night; then salt it Avith 
three pounds of well-pounded bay-salt with half a pound of 
treacle, in Avhich let it remain ten days, rubbing it daily. 
When it is to be boiled, sew it closely in a cloth ; let the 
water only simmer (upon no account allowing it to boil) for 
nine hours over a slow fire or upon a stove. When taken 
out of the water, place two sticks across the pot, and let the 
beef stand over the steam for half an hour, turninof it from 
side to side ; then press it with a heavy weight. It must 
not be taken out of the cloth till j^erfectly cold. 



56. Beef a la Braise. 

Take two or three ribs of beef, cut away only the fleshy 
part that is next the chine, and remove all the lat ; lard 
u 



306 TEE THOEOUGH GOOD COOK. 

it witli pretty large pieces of bacon ; season with spices, 
sweet herbs, parsley, young onions, a small quantity of 
mushrooms, and truffles, shredded very small. Then tie it 
into a neat form with packthread and put it into a stew- 
pan, having previously lined the bottom of the pan with 
thin slices of fat bacon : over these lay slices of lean 
beef about an inch thick ; beat them Avell, and season 
with spice, sweet herbs, onions, l)aydeaves, salt, and pepper. 
In putting in your beef, lay the fleshy side downwards, 
that it may the better take the relish of the seasoning ; 
season the upper part as you did the lower, and lay over 
it slices of beef, and over them slices of bacon, as 3'ou did 
at the bottom ; mask the Avholo Avith broth, then cover 
the stew-pan and close it well all round ; put fire on the 
cover of the stew-pan as well as underneath. When the 
beef is sutHciently stewed, take it up and let it drain a little : 
then lay it in a dish and pour upon it a ragout made thus : — 
Take veal sweetbreads, livers of capons, mushrooms, truffles, 
tops of asparagus and bottoms of artichokes ; " toss " these 
with some melted bacon, moisten them with good grav}', 
and thicken Avith a cullis made of veal and ham. 



57. Fillet of Beef a I'Intendante. 

Make a forcemeat Avith foAvls' livers, grated bacon, a little 
butter, parsle}', shallots, nmshrooms, three 3'olks of eggs, 
and fine spices. Cut a fillet of beef into two, and flatten 
it Avith the cleaver ; lard it through Avith middhng slices ; 
then lay the forcemeat upon it, tie it in a cloth, and boil it 
in broth, a glass of Avhite Avine, and a faggot of SAveet herbs. 
When done, serA'e it Avith a ragout of sweetbreads, or truffles. 



EXriiEMETS. 307 

58. Stewed Beef. 

Stew ill live quarts of water the middle part of a brisket 
of beef, weighing ten pounds ; add two onions stuck with 
two cloves, one head of celery, one large carrot, two turnips 
cut small, a handful of sorrel leaves, half an ounce of black 
pepper, and some salt. Stew gently for six hours. Make 
a strong gravy with carrots and turnips, the turnips to be 
scraped and fried of a brown colour in butter ; add pepper, 
salt, and a little cayenne ; thicken it with flour and butter 
and pour it over the beef, with the carrots and turnips. 



59. Beef Bouilli. 

Put on three pounds of a leg or shin of beef in three 
quarts of water ; when it boils, skim well ; add hah" a table- 
spoonful of whole pepper, one and a half large red onion, 
and half a carrot ; let simmer for three or three and a half 
hours; when the meat is tender, cut off a piece of it and 
lay it aside. Wash and thoroughly clean an ox-foot ; blanch 
it in cold Avater for six hours, and boil it in fresh water about 
two and a half hours. The next day, take off the fat from 
the strained soup, boil the soup, and add the piece of beef, 
and the gristles of the ox-foot cut small, and let all boil 
together for a few minutes. Serve with dry toast cut into 
dice. 



60. Gratin of Boiled Beef. 

Take a little butter, or fat — if of poultry the better ; 
rub it on the inside of a baking disk, and sprinkle with 
bread raspings ; lay around the dish slices of boiled beef, 
cut very thin ; strew over them finely chopped parsley and 
pieces of butter; pour in some broth, and bake the whole 
gently in a Dutch oven. 
" u 2 



308 THE THOEOUGH GOOD COOK. 

61. To Boil a Rump of Beef after the French Fashion. 

Parboil a rump of beef, or the little end of the brisket, 
for half an hour ; then take it up and put it into a deep 
dish : slash it in the side, that the gravy may come out : 
throw a little pepper and salt between every cut ; then 
fill up the dish with good claret, put to it three or four 
pieces of mace, set it on the coals, closely covered, and 
boil it above an hour and a half, but turn it often in 
the meantime ; then with a spoon take off the fat and fill 
up with claret ; add six onions, sliced, a handful of capers 
or broom buds, half a dozen hard lettuces, sliced, three 
spoonfuls of wine- vinegar and as much verjuice, and set the 
meat a-boiling till it be tender. Serve it up with brown 
bread and sipjDcts fried with butter, and be sure there is not 
too much fat in it. 



62. Vinaigrette of Beef. 

Cut thin slices of dressed beef: put them into a salad 
bowl, with a layer of anchovies, or red herrings, free from 
bones; add some parsley, chervil, and chives, chopped fine, 
and a few sliced pickled gherkins ; season with pepper, salt, 
and vinegar, and serve without stirring. 



63. Scarlet Beef. 

Mix together a little mace, cloves, allspice, black pepper, 
and saltpetre ; rub it well into two pounds of tender lean 
beef; let this lie six days, turnmg it daily and rubbing 
it with pickle ; then roll and tie it firmly Avith tape ; put 
it and the i:)ickle into a small jar, with a slice or two of 
beef suet under it and over it ; tic it closely, and bake it 



ENTREMETS. 300 

an hour. It is eaten cold, cut in thin shces and Ofarnished 
with parsley. If kept long, the colour fades. 



64, Mutton Ham. 

Cut a hind-quarter of good mutton into the shape of a 
ham ; pound one ounce of saltpetre with one pound of coarse 
salt and a quarter of a pound of brown sugar; rub the 
ham well with this mixture, and let it lie for a fortnight, 
rubbing it well with the pickle every two or three days. 
Then take it out, and press it with a weight for one day; 
smoke it with sawdust for ten or fifteen days, or hang it 
to dr}' in the kitchen. If the ham is to be boiled soon 
after it has been smoked, soak it one hour : if it has been 
smoked any length of time, it will require to be soaked 
several hours. Put it on in cold water, and boil it gently 
for two hours. It is eaten cold at breakfast, luncheon, or 
supper. 

Ohs. — A mutton ham is sometimes cured Avith the 
above quantity of salt and sugar, with the addition of half 
an ounce of white pepper, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, 
and one nutmesr. 



65. Carbonnade of Mutton. 

After having removed the middle bone, beat the meat 
thoroughly with a kitchen chopper ; add a slice of bacon, 
season with sweet herbs, and lard the carbonnade length- 
wise. Then powder it lightly with flour, and put it into 
a saucepan with some melted lard or butter; brown it on 
both sides ; then add the bacon and seasonino', and let it 
stew gently over a slow fire. 

The carbonnade should be browned quickly, or the juice 
of the meat will be dried up. 



310 TEE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

66. To Stew a Shoulder of Mutton. 

Bone a shoulder of mutton with a sharp knife, and till the 
space with the following stuffing : — Grated bread, minced suet, 
parsley, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; bind with the yolks of 
two well-beaten eggs : sew or fasten with small skewers ; 
brown in a frying-pan, with a bit of butter. Break the 
boiM?, put it into a saucepan \\At\\ some water, an onion, 
pepper, salt, and a bunch of parsley : let it stew till the 
strength be extracted ; strain and thicken with butter rolled 
in flour : put this with the mutton, and a glass of port 
wine, into the saucepan, Avhich cover closely, and let stew 
gently for two hours. Before serving, add two tablespoon- 
fuls of mushroom catsup. Garnish with pickles. 



67. To Kebob a Loin of Mutton. 

Bone a good-sized loin of mutton, and take off all the 
fat : cut or draw off the inside skin nearly to the bottom. 
With grated bread mix parsley, thyme, and shallot, iinely 
minced ; season with pepper and salt, pounded mace, grated 
lemon-peel and nutmeg: rub the beaten yolk of an egg- 
over the nmtton and the skin : put a layer of the stuffing, 
turn the skin over, and sew it at the sides and top : rub 
more es""", and strew some of the stuffinof over the outside. 
Baste it with butter while roasting, and dredge it three or 
four times with the stuffing. Serve it with a rich gravy, 
to which add a glass of port wine and some catsup. 



68. Skewer Kebob. 

Cut five pounds of loin or leg of nmtton in pieces the size 
of an egg : then chop four middle-sized onions, and sprinkle 



ENTBEMETS. 311 

them over with sufficient salt, pepper, and cinnamon; rub 
these in well Avith the hands, and let the meat remain covered 
for two or three hours. If in season, squeeze half a dozen 
tomatoes, and pass the juice through a sieve into a basin ; 
if not, mix four or five tablespoonfuls of preserved tomato- 
sauce in three-quarters of a pint of water. Then pass the 
pieces of meat one by one on the skewers, place them in front 
of the fire, and gradually turn them ; as soon as the meat 
begins to brown, baste it now and then with the tomato juice. 
When nicely cooked, dish up, and serve hot. 



69. Milk Kebob. 

Cut a sufficient cpiantity of a leg or loin of mutton or 
lamb in pieces the size of an egg ; sprinkle with your fingers 
sufficient salt, pepper, and cinnamon over, and let them re- 
main for an hour or so ; then place them in a stew-pan and 
cover them with milk ; set them on the fire till the milk 
begins to boil, then take it off, skim it w^ell, and take out the 
pieces of meat. When cold, pass them on skewers one by 
one, put them before a moderate fire, and turn them gently ; 
at the same time get ready some fresh milk, and keep it 
hot by the side of the fire. As soon as the meat commences 
to brown, baste it now and then Avith the hot milk Avith 
ii quill ; and Avhen the gravy drops freel}^, sprinkle a small 
cpiantity of flour over the meat ; continue this until it is 
nicely cooked, then dish it up tastefully, sprinkle a little 
cinnamon over, and serve hot. 



70. Baked Mincemeat Eebob. 

Mince three or four pounds of a leg of mutton, or any 
other part of raAv mutton ; then put three chopped onions 



312 THE THOEOUGII GOOD COOK. 

into a stew-pan with some fresh butter, and partly fry them : 
add the minced mutton, with half a handful of skinned 
pistachios, the same of currants, a little salt, pepper, and 
cinnamon; stir round with a spoon until the minced meat 
also is partly fried ; then cut a caid-fat in pieces about the 
size of vine-leaves, divide the mincemeat among them, and 
Avrap each up in the form of a small cup, or any shape you 
fancy ; lay them on a baking-tin, place it in a hot oven till 
nicely browned; dish up tastefully, and serve. 



71. Breast of Mutton, Grilled. 

Stew a breast of nuitton gently with broth, salt, pepper, 
parsley, chives, thyme, and a bay-leaf; when it is done, 
put it into oil with parsley and chives minced, salt and 
pepper ; cover it with bread-crumbs, grill it, and serve it 
with a sharp sauce (p. 34()), Instead of stewing it as above 
directed, you may simply put it into a saucepan, and when 
boiled, crumb and grill it. 



72. Leg of Mutton Braised for Seven Hours. 

Take out the chump and thigh bones, but without 
tearing the meat ; lard it with ])ieces of bacon rolled in 
salt and spice, but do not let the larding project beyond 
the meat ; tie it together, slit the joint in order to bend 
it back ; cut off the knuckle, that the leg may take less 
room ; put it into a stew-pan, with six onions, four carrots, 
a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, salt and spice, the 
bones you have taken from the meat, as well as any other 
trimmings you may have ; also two slices of bacon, and two 
glasses of water or broth. Set on the fire, and when it 



ENTREMETS. 313 

boils put some cinders on tlie lid. When it is done, take 
it up, skim off the fat, and strain the gravy over the 
joint. To give it a better appearance, reduce some of the 
gravy, and with it glaze the meat. 



73. Haricot Mutton. 

Cut the best end of a neck or loin of mutton that has 
been kept till tender, into chops of equal thickness : you 
ma}^ cut two chops to one bone, but it is more convenient 
to help Avhen there is only one ; trim oft' some of the fat 
and the loAver end of the chine bone, scrape it clean, and 
lay it in a stew-pan Avith an ounce of butter ; set it over 
a smart fire ; if your fire is not sharp, the chops will bo 
done before they are coloured : the intention of frying them 
is merely to give them a very light browning. "While 
the chops are bro"\viiing, peel a couple of dozen of young- 
button onions, and boil them in three pints of water for 
fifteen or twenty minutes ; set them by, and pour the 
liquor they were boiled in into the stew-pan with the chops ; 
if that is not sufficient to cover them, add as nmch boiling- 
water as will; remove the scum as it rises, and he ccnrfvl 
they are not stewed too fast or too much ; take out one 
of them with a fish-slice and try it ; when they are tender, 
which Avill be in about an hour and a half, pass the gravy 
through a sieve into a basin and place it in the 023en air, 
that it may get cold. You may then easily and completely 
skim off' the fat. In the meantime, set the meat and the 
onions by the fire to keep hot, and pour some boiling water 
over the latter to warm them again. Have about six ounces 
of carrots and eight ounces of turnips peeled and cut into 
slices, or shaped into balls about as big as a nutmeg ; boil 
the carrots for half an hour, and put them on a sieve to 



314 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

drain, and then place them round the dish, the last thing. 
Thicken the gravy by putting an ounce of butter into a 
stew-pan : when it is melted, stir in as much flour as will 
stiffen it ; pour the gravy to it by degrees, stir together till 
it boils : strain it through a fine sieve into a stew-pan, put 
in the carrots and turnips to get warm, and let it simmer 
gently Avhile you dish up the meat ; lay the chops round a 
dish, put the vegetables in the middle, and pour the thickened 
gL-avy over. Some put in capers, minced gherkins, etc. 



74. English Mutton-Pie. 

Cut up in slices, not too thick nor too large, the thickest, 
fleshiest part of a leg of mutton, or a loin (about a pound and 
a half). Trim away the bones and sinewj^ skin, slightly beat 
the slices, and season with pepper and salt. Arrange on the 
bottom of a pie-dish a layer of these slices, continue filling 
the dish alternately with the meat and with potatoes ; pour 
over it a gill of good cold gravy, moisten the rim of the dish 
all round, and apply to it a thin strip of half puff-paste of 
the same size : moisten this likewise, and cover meat and 
dish to the rim with a flat of the same paste ; apply it Avith- 
out drawing, and cut off the surface, holding the knife a 
little to the outside ; then channel it all round with the back 
of a knife, pressing the paste with the thumb. Adorn the 
top, make a hole in the centre of it, egg the pie, and bake 
it in a moderate oven for an hour and a quarter, being- 
careful to cover the paste with paper as soon as it takes 
colour. 



75. Fieldfare Pasties. 

Fieldfares, snipes, Avoodcocks, quails, and young plovers 
should be draAvn for pasties, the gizzard opened to take out 



ENTREMETS. 315 

any gi'it, and all the inside put into a stew-pan with butter 
to steam a little while. Then take out, and lay the birds 
in to brown delicately in the butter ; Avhen they are done, 
take them out. For a pasty of half a dozen birds, make 
forcemeat of a pound and a half of veal, half a pound of fat 
bacon, and half a pound of calf's liver, all finely minced. 
Add more butter to that in which the birds were cooked. 
Beat three eggs with a teacupful of milk, and stir this into 
the butter ; then stir in the mince, add salt, white pej^per, 
and very little spice. Spread a layer of the forcemeat in 
the bottom of the dish, sprinkle salt, pepper, and lemon- 
juice over the birds and their trails ; arrange them on the 
forcemeat, lay the rest of this over them ; put on the paste 
lid, and, when baked, pour in a little rich gravy. 



76. Beef and Oyster Sausages. 

Scald three-quarters of a pint of oysters in their own 
liquor ; take them out and chop them tine ; mince one 
pound of beef and mutton, and three-quarters of a pound 
of beef-suet; add the oysters, and season with salt, pepper, 
mace, and two cloves pounded ; beat up two eggs, and mi.x 
them well with the other ingredients, and pack closely 
into a jar. When to be used, roll it into the form of small 
sausages, dip them in the yolk of an egg beaten up, 
strew grated bread-crumbs over them, or dust Avith flour, 
and fry them in fresh dripping. Serve them upon fried 
bread, hot. 



77. Hessian Stew. 

Cut the root of a tongue into large pieces ; lay it in 
a deep pan; rub well into it a handful of salt; pour over 



316 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

it .some hot Avater, and stir it round. When cool enough, 
scour it well with the hands, and Avash it thoroughly in cold 
Avater ; when perfectly clean, dust it Avitli flour ; fry it of 
a light broAvn Avith a good quantity of small Avhite onions ; 
put it into a digester Avith a teacupful of strong beer ; rinse 
out the pan A\dth boiling-Avater ; put this to the meat, with 
three quarts more of hot Avater, a bead or two of garlic, some 
sliced carrots and turnips : season Avith ground black Jamaica 
and cayenne pepper, three clo\^es, and some salt ; let it 
stCAV three or four hours. Half an hour before servinof take 
out the meat and some of the soup for graA'y ; add more 
spices, and of mushroom catsup, &oy, Avalnut-pickle, and 
coratch, a tablespoonful each, and three of port Avine ; boil 
all too'ether, thicken the sauce Avitli butter rolled in flour, 
and garnish Avith sippets of thin toasted bread cut into a 
three-cornered shape. The soup left oA^er may be strained, 
and serA'ed clear, or, if preferred, Avith A^egetables that haA^e 
been previously boiled. 



78. Irish Mutton Stew. 

Take two pounds of mutton chops, put them in a stCAv- 
pan, and coA'cr Avith boiling Avater. Add three dessert- 
spoonfuls of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper; also tAA'o 
carrots, two turnips, all cut up, and six small onions. 
Let this cook for tAventy minutes, then add half a pint 
of potatoes cut in quarters, and a little more Avater, and 
let all stcAV sloAvly for about tAventy minutes more. Now 
stir all together thoroughly, and serve ver)' hot. 



79. Navarin Stew. 

Bone a small leg of mutton, and cut the meat into 
middling-sized squares ; season Avith salt and spices, add a 



ENTREMETS. 317 

bunch of aromatics, pour over half a glass of Madeira, 
and let it macerate for seven or eight hours. Then drain 
it, and wipe it on a cloth. Mix six ounces of fat bacon 
in a stew-pan ; stir it, add to it the squares of meat and 
half a pound of streaky bacon, blanched and cut in squares ; 
fry over a good fire, then drain the fat oif, and pour into 
the stew-pan the Madeira in which the meat was macer- 
ated ; two minutes after, moisten to height with light-brown 
sauce. Cover the stew-j^an, cooking the stew on a moder- 
ate fire, with hot ashes on the lid. The meats being about 
done, skim the fat off the sauce, dilute it with a glass of 
Avhite wine, and mix with a garnish of good turnips, cut in 
balls with a vegetable spoon, and previously coloured in 
a frying-pan over a sharp fire, and seasoned. Continue 
boiling gently; remembering that meats and turnips must 
be done at the same time. When ready to serve, dish the 
stew, the meats taking the centre and the turnips placed 
all round. 



80. Hashed Calf's Head. 

Take any of the head and tongue that remains, and 
cut into squares or slices ; sprinkle over the meat salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg, and dredge or powder it with a little 
fine flour or arro^vToot. If any soup of the previous day 
remains, make it up to a pint Avith good mutton broth, 
adding a glass of red or Avhite wine, with three tablespoon- 
fuls of mushroom catsup ; put the meat into this and 
give it a boil up : when it is ready, squeeze in the juice 
of a lemon. 

Obs. — A good cook will judge how nuieh flour is neces- 
sary to thicken the gravy ; much nuist depend upon the 
remains of the calf's head. 



318 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

81. Foreign Hash. 

Take the meat off" any cold joint, cut it in even-sized 
pieces. Cut up in slices two Spanish onions, four car- 
rots, two tomatoes, two large apples, fry them in dripping 
or butter, and when tender add, according to the meat, a 
pint or a quart of stock, j^oured over them. Take two 
heaped-up tablespoonfuLs of flour, mix into a smooth paste 
with a little water: add salt, pepper, and one teaspoonful 
of brown sugar, a few herbs, fresh or dried, and a clove of 
garlic. Let all boil together for three hours ; then place 
the saucepan beside the lire, add the meat, stir well ; put 
in a teaspoonful of jam, and after ten minutes serve very 
hot. If you cannot get tomatoes, two tablespoonfuls of 
tomato-sauce will do. 



82. Corned-Beef Hash. 

Cho]:) rather fine some cold corned-beef To each pint 
add one pint and a half of cold boiled potatoes chopped 
fine, one tablespoonful of butter, and one cupful of stock, 
or, if no stock is on hand, two-thirds of a cupful of hot 
water. Season Avith salt and pepper to taste. Put the 
mixture into a frying-pan, and stir over the fire for about 
eight minutes, being careful not to burn it. Spread smoothly. 
Cover the pan, and set back Avhere the hash will broAvn 
slowly. It Avill take about half an hour. When done, fold 
it like an omelette, and turn on to a hot dish. Garnish Avith 
points of toast and parsley. Serve hot. If there are no cold 
potatoes, the same quantity of hot mashed potatoes ma}" 
be used. 



ENTREMETS. 319 

83. Proven9al Hotchpotch— " Cassoulic." 

Any remains of cold meat ; but be careful to add some 
fat bacon and some onions, minced small. Cut up your 
meat into small dice. Add haricot beans which have been 
well soaked and cooked the previous day in grav}^ Place 
meat, haricots, and gravy, properly seasoned, in a Avell- 
buttered mould; strew bread-crumbs and little bits of 
butter on top, and brown in the oven for a quarter of an 
hour or twenty minutes. Turn out and serve hot. You 
may substitute carefully boiled rice or cold boiled potatoes 
for the haricots, if you like. This is a very econortiical and 
toothsome dish, and one of the safeguards against explosions 
of conjugal temper. 

The observant housekeeper will not fail to note that 
" cassoulic " is a species of Southern arabesque of the English 
" bubble and squeak." 



84. "West Indian Pepper-Pot. 

Procure a bottle of casaripe sauce. This sauce is sent 
from the West Indies. It is thick and dark in appear- 
ance, and is sold in quart bottles. Take whatever remains 
of meat or poultry you have, cut them into convenient 
pieces, trim them neatly, put them into a pan, and cover 
them with the sauce. Make the whole hot over the fire, 
and take out as much as is required for immediate use. 
Further supplies of game or poultry must be covered with 
additional sauce, and Avarmed up each time it is used. The 
sauce Avill keep the meat quite good. 



85. Toad-in-a-Hole. 

Beat two eggs ; stir in three tablespoonfuls of baked 
flour, add half a saltspoonful of salt and a pint of milk ; 



320 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

beat the batter for fifteen minutes. Grease the interior of 
a pie-dish; put in the batter, with a pound and a half of 
cutlets of mutton or beef in moderate-sized pieces; season 
with salt, pepper, and chopped onion, and bake in a fairly 
hot oven for an hour and three-quarters. 

Any remains of cooked meat, poultry or game, cut in 
pieces and seasoned, may be used in making a " toad-in-a- 
hole." 



86. Bubble and Squeak. 

Chop small some boiled white cabbage ; season it with 
popper and salt, and fry it with a little butter ; pepper 
and broil some slices of cold boiled salted beef (by preference, 
imderdone) ; put the fried cabbage into a dish, lay round it 
the slices of boiled beef, and serve very hot. 



87. A Cake of Pork. 

The pork must be minced very fine and mixed with 
chives or a little onion, salt, pepper, a little lemon-peel, and 
an ecffif. Dredsfe in enou£fh flour to bind the mince. Form 
a thick round cake. Melt butter in a stew-pan ; lay in the 
cake ; brown it on one side. Take it out, and slice onions 
into the stew-pan, with more butter to thin the sauce ; season 
it to taste, and lay it in the cake to get hot through. 



88. To Make an Outlandish Dish. 

Take the liver of a hog, and cut it in pieces about 
the bigness of a span ; then take aniseed or French seed, 
pepper and salt, and season them therewithal ; lay the 
pieces severally round in the caul of the hog, and so roast 
them on a bird-spit. 



ENTREMETS. 321 

89. Battalia Fie. 

Take four tamo pigeons and truss them to bake ; take 
also four ox-palates, well boiled and blanched, and cut in 
little pieces ; then take six lambs' stones, and as mau}^ good 
sweetbreads of veal cut in halves and parboiled, twenty 
cocks'-combs boiled and blanched, the bottoms of four arti- 
chokes, a pint of oysters parboiled and bearded, and the 
marrow of three bones ; season all with mace, nutmeg, and 
salt. Place all this in a coffin of tine paste ; put half a pound 
of butter upon it, and pour a little water into the pie before 
it be set in the oven. Let it stand in the oven for an hour 
and a half, then take it out, pour out the butter at the top 
of the pic, put it into gravy and limin>, and serve up. 



322 



SECTION VII.— CURRIES. 



1. Curried Sole. 



Fry (not broil) tlio solos delicately, overnight. At tli<:i sania 
time carefully boil the rice, as directed in No. 7. In the 
morning, against breakfast- time, pile the rice in the middle 
of the dish, and lay around it from the riin, converging ta 
the centre, the slices of cold sole, gently veneered with a 
thin laj^er of Auckland curry-paste, diluted, if too stiff, with 
oil or butter. 



2. Lobster Curry. 

Pick the moat from the shell of a lobster and cut it into 
small oblong jjioces. Fry two onions to a goldon-broAvn in 
an ounce of butter; stir in one tablespoonful of curry-powder 
or paste and half a pint of moat stock, and simmer till it 
thickens ; then put in your lobster- flesh, stew the whole for 
twenty minutes, stirring occasionally ; serve boiled rice with it. 



3. Oyster Curry. 

Blanch and beard your oysters, leaving them in their own 
liquor ; then cut two middling-sized onions into small dice, 
and "toss" them in a stew-pan with an onnce of butter ; when 
done, mix in two teaspoonfuls of curry powder and one of 
curiy paste, and pass all through a tammy — it ought to be 
thick ; then add the oysters Avith their liquor, and keep 
stirring over the fire until they become enveloped in a thick 



CUB HIES. 323 



sauce, Avliich they should simmer in for two minutes. Then 
turn out on your dish, and serve with rice separately. 



4. Dressed Salmon, Curried. 

Take a large onion, cut it into small pieces, and fry it 
in an ounce of butter till of a light-brown colour ; put it 
into three-quarters of a pint of strong stock, with a table- 
spoonful of curry-powder, one tablespoonful of Harvey's 
sauce, and a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, the juice of half 
a lemon, cayenne and salt to taste ; simmer all gently 
till the onion is tender, stirring it occasionally. Cut the 
remains of any boiled salmon into small pieces, carefully 
taking away ail skin and bone, lay them in the stew-pan, 
and let them gradually heat through, but do not allow the 
curry to boil. Serve with rice separately. 



5. Curried Fish or Meat. 

If fish is to be curried, clean and cut it into slices ; it 
prawns, add them whole; crab or lobster must be picked 
from the shells ; fowls or chicken carefully cut up into 
shreds; and butchers' meat similarlj'. Never send up your 
meat cut in joints or slices. Place either of these m 
cocoa-nut water, with a clove of garlic, and one or two 
onions shredded, a dessertspoonful of turmeric pounded, six 
green chillies divided in half, and a few slices of green 
ginger, with a moderate portion of salt, and let it boil ; 
as the meat, fowd, or fish is nearly dressed, add two spoonfuls 
of fresh butter, stirring all together. When the dressino- is 
nearly finished, add, lastly, some more cocoa-nut water, and 
as the curry boils, squeeze in the juice of a lemon to give it a 
proper acidity. In India a few slices of green mangoes, if 
in season, may be boiled in the curry. In England, use a 
V 2 



324 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

zest of green apples ; a few — a very few — green gooseberries 
are also allowable. If the gravy appears too thin, it niay 
have a little Hour rubbed up with the butter. Serve with 
rice separately. 



6. A Dry Curry Hash. 

Cut one pound of beef steak or fowl into shreds, slice 
one large onion, and fiy ni butter till of a light brown ; 
then add one tablespoonful of curry-])OAV(ler and the meat, 
and fry all until of a dark brown ; put into a stew-pan with 
a teacupful of milk, the juice of a lemon, and a little salt. 
Stew gently for an hour, stirring occasionally. The rice 
should be served on a separate dish. 



7. How to Prepare Rice for Curry. 

Wash yoiu' rice, so as to have it thoroughly clean, and 
then cover it to excess with either cold or boiling water, 
and place upon a brisk fire, either covered or uncovered. 
The main point to be considered is, neither to under- nor to 
over-do the boiling. Test the rice now and again by press- 
ing a grain or two between the finger and thumb. As 
soon as the "bone in it" disa'ppears, and neither sooner 
nor later, pour in a quart of cold water, and strain or 
pour off' what the Hindoos call the " cunjee water," which 
can be used for making a meagre soup. Then place the 
rice in a colander in the oven for a fcAV minutes, or drive 
off' the superfluous moisture by placing the ]:)an, shaken 
occasionally, on the fire for a short time ; j^our rice will now 
be in free separate grains. To whiten it, a squeeze of lemon 
or a pinch of alum added during the boiling stage will suffice. 
Always use the thick broad-grained rice for boiling. The 
slender-grained varieties arc the best for puddings and sweets. 



325 



SECTION VIII.— SAUCES. 



1. A la Diable. 



Mince half a dozen shallots very small, wash, and press 
ont all the moisture ; then put them into a saucepan, with 
a glass of vinegar, a clove of garlic, a baj^-leaf, and some 
veal glaze ; reduce it nearly to a jelly ; moisten it with a 
little good grav}-, add pimento butter and a teaspoonful 
of olive oil. 



2. A la Madeleine. 

Put a lew bread-crumbs, two shredded shallots, a bit of 
butter, half a spoonful of vinegar, and two spoonfuls of 
consomme (p. 77) into a stew-pan; set on the fire, and 
boil up together; season with pepper and salt. This sauce 
shoidd not be too thick. 



3. A la Farisieune. 

This sauce is composed of Bechamel sauce (No. 8), into 
which are put nmshrooms, blanched, and cooked truffles cut 
up in very small pieces ; also the tails of shrimps peeled. 
Heat this, without boiling it, in a metal-bath, and see at the 
moment of serving that it is well seasoned. 



326 THE TJIOIiOUGII GOOD COOK. 

4. A I'Aurore. 

Mix two dessertspoonfuls of lemon-juice witli some 
.smooth sauce (Xo. G3), season with pepper and nutmeg ; put 
the mixture into a saucepan, make it quite hot. In the 
meantime, rub the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs through 
a colander, which put into the sauce just before serving ; 
take care not to let it boil after the eg'^'s are in. 



5. An Reverend. 

Chop up some lemon-peel and two or three pickled 
cucumbers ; put this into a stew-pan with two spoonfuls 
of cullis, a little butter rolled in flour ; season with salt 
and pepper ; put it on the fire and make it quite hot without 
boiling, stirring all the time. Make an " alliance " with the 
yolks of eggs, and serve. 



6. Anchovy Bntter. 

Pick and wipe half a dozen anchovies, Avliich pound 
with two ounces of fresh butter, and rub through a fine 
hair-sieve. 



7. Bearnaise. 

Mix half a teasp)Oonful of Hour with a little butter. Moisten 
with mushroom juice, and let it boil for a fcnv minutes; 
thicken with the 3'olks of one or two eggs beaten up in 
cream. Add a few mushrooms, truffles chopped up fine, 
some essence of anchovy, and the juice of a lemon. 



SAUCES. 327 

8. Bechamel. 

Put six ounces of flour in a basin ; moisten with half a pint 
of cold milk ; pour into a stew-pan, stir it on the fire ; as soon 
as the mixture becomes a smooth paste, take it off the fire 
and work it well with a spoon. Then add three-quarters of a 
pint of boiled milk, two small onions, a bunch of parsley, 
salt, peppercorns, and four ounces of raw ham in small dice ; 
bring it to the boil; put it back on a very slow fire, and 
cook it for twenty minutes, stirring carefully from time to 
time; pass all through a tammy. 

If you think the sauce too rich for macaroni, you can 
serve with the gravy of roast meat, thickened with a little 
flour, and rendered more relishable Avith a little burnt onion. 



9. Black Butter. 

Put some butter into a small saucepan or frying-pan and 
let it brown ; when thoroughly hot add half a glass of vinegar, 
with pepper and salt. 



10. Blanche. 

Put into a saucepan a dessertspoonful of good flour 
and four ounces of butter. Mix those two ingredients 
carefully without heating them. Season with pepper and 
salt, and add a pint of hot or cold water. Put the sauce- 
pan on the fire, taking care to stir all the time. Let it 
boil for two minutes, then remove it. Mix with it the 
juice of one lemon and a little fresh butter. Stir till 
the butter is incited. If the sauce is too thick — which 
happens when it is a success — pour in water till it is 
of the right consistence, and keep it hot without letting 
it boil. 



328 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

11. Blanche a I'Estragou. 

Boil a handful (3f tarragon in salt water for two minutes ; 
cool it witli cold water, drain it and chop it up. At the 
moment of serving put it into a Sauce Blanche (No. 10). 



12. Bread. 

Put a large piece of crumb from a stale loaf into a sauce- 
pan, with half a pint of milk, an onion, a blade of mace, 
and a few peppercorns in a bit of cloth. Boil them a icw 
minutes, then take out the onion and spice, mash the bread 
ver}' smooth, and add to it a piece of butter and a little 
salt. 



13. Bretonne. 

Cut in halves four or five large onions, so as to be able 
to remove the part adhering to the root, which gives a bitter 
taste. Chop up these onions, liglitl}'^ fry them in butter, 
and moisten with a glass of beef broth or water, adding a 
little thyme and bay-leaf. Let these simmer gently until 
thoroughly done, then pass them through the sieve. Put 
into this ])uree of onions two small spoonfuls of thickened 
sauce, and season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon. When 
you have no thickened sauce, put a pinch of Hour into the 
onions when they are slightly browned, and moisten with 
a little stock or water. 



14. Brown. 

Take a pound or two of steaks, two or three pounds 
of veal, lean ham, some pickings of fowl, carrots, and onions ; 



SAUCE 8. 329 

put all these into a saucepan Avith a glass of water, and 
set it on a brisk lire. When scarcely any moisture remains, 
put it on a brisk tire, that the jelly may take colour without 
burning, and as soon as it is brown, moisten it with stock 
(or Avater), add a bunch of parsley and green onions, two 
bay-leaves, two cloves, and some champignons ; salt it well, 
and set it on the fire for three hours, then strain. Dilute 
a little browning with your liquor, and boil it an hour over a 
gentle fire ; take off' all the fat, and run it through a tammy. 



15. Brown Chaudfroid. 

Three-quarters of a pint of aspic, quarter of a pint of 
tomato sauce, a few drops of carmine, half a wineglassful 
of sherry, half an ounce of glaze ; reduce to a quarter of the 
amount, keeping it well skinuned while boiling; then pass it 
through the tamm}^, and use when somewhat cool. 



16. Brown Gravy. 

Put a piece of butter, about the size of a hen's egg, into a 
saucepan, and when it is melted shake in a little Hour, and 
let it brown. Then by degrees stir in the following in- 
gredients: — Half a 2^int of water and the same quantity of 
ale or small beer that is not bitter, an onion and a piece 
of lemon-peel cut small, three cloves, a blade of mace, some 
whole pepper, a dessertspoonful of mushroom pickle, the 
same quantity of catsup, and an anchovy. Let the whole 
boil together a quarter of an hour, then strain it off, and it 
will bo a good sauce for various purposes. 



330 THE TIIOFOUGH GOOD COOK. 

17, Brown Italian. 

Chop a shallot, pass it in a stew-pan with a spoonful 
of oil or a little butter, a clove, a blade of mace, a few 
peppercorns, a little ham, and a small piece of bay-leaf; 
when fried a little, add two tablespoonfuls of mushroom 
chopped very tine, which pass also a few minutes : add 
two" ragout-spoonfuls of Spanish sauce (No. 64), and one of 
brown broth (p. 77): stir the whole over the fire till it boils; 
draw it to the corner and let it simmer fifteen or twenty 
minutes : skim it, and strain it through a colander-spoon. 



18. Browii Poivrade, or Sharp Sauce. 

Put into a small stew-pan a few slices of carrot, four 
shallots sliced, a sprig of ])arsley or a little sliced parsley- 
root, half a baj'-leaf, a sprig of thj'mo, a clove, half a blade 
of mace, and about twenty peppercorns, with a small piece 
of ham, and a piece of butter as large as a walnut ; stir 
these on the fire till lightly tinged with brown ; add half 
a pint of Spanish sauce (No. G4) and a ragout-spoonful of 
consomme ([>. 77) : stir till boiling. JJraAv it to the corner 
of the stove till your herbs are done ; skim well ; add a 
little sugar, to counteract any bitterness from the roots, and 
pass through a tannny. (See also No. GO.) 



19. Cardinal. 

Pound some spawn of lobster Avith butter, and stir it 
into some " turned " sauce (No. 70), and Avork it aa'cII over 
the stove until it becomes smooth ; season it Avith cayenne 
pepper and salt, the juice of a lemon, and a glass of 
Madeira Avine; rub it through a tannny. 



SAUCES'. 331 

20. Carrier. 

Scrape a small stick of horseradish, cut an onion or two in 
thin slices ; put these into a sauce tureen with a little vinegar 
and whole pepper, set the tureen in the dripping-pan under 
a shoulder of mutton while it is roasting. Serve this sauce 
quite hot with the meat. 



2i. Champagne. 

Cut an onion, half a pottle of nuishrooms, and a small 
carrot, in slices, which put into a saucepan with two ounces of 
butter, a few sprigs of parsley, a sprig of bay-leaf, a very little 
thyme, a couple of blades of mace, two cloves, about thirty 
peppercorns, and an ounce of ham cut in pieces ; let the 
whole sweat well over a brisk lire : do not leave off stiri'ing ; 
add about two tablespoonfuls of flour ; stir it two minutes 
longer, bearing in mind that it must be as Avhite as you can 
make it; dilute with consomme (p. 77) ; bring it gradually to 
the consistence of " turned " sauce. When it is well clarified 
at the side of the stove, skim it, then add three parts of a 
bottle of boiling champagne. Reduce your sauce, on a quick 
fire, to the consistence of melted butter ; strain it through 
a tammy, and finish Avith a piece of anchovy butter as large as 
a walnut, cayenne, and lemon-juice. 



22. Dutch. 

A little scraped horseradish, a button onion sliced, a little 
parsley or sliced parsley-root, a few peppercorns, and half 
a bay-leaf. Stew these at the side of the fire, to get out the 
flavour, in tarragon, elder, or plain vinegar, to your taste, 
three dessertspoonfuls of either, with as much consonune 
(p. 77). When this is done, pour the liquor into a basin 



332 THE THOIiOUGH GOOD COOK. 

on the yolks of four or live eggs, stirring all the time ; return 
them to the stew-pan, which put on the fire ; keep the sauce 
stirring with a whisk — it must not hoil. When as thick 
as double cream take it off, strain it through a tammy, and 
work a little piece of fresh butter into it ; add a little lemon- 
juice and salt. This sauce is for immediate use. 



23. Fish Gravy (Coulis de Poisson). 

Put into a saucepan a piece of butter, a few slices of 
onion, a carrot cut in jiieces ; then add the heads, the remains, 
and the l>ones of any fish ; let the vegetables simmer without 
burning, moisten with a vegetable gravy, and when it boils, 
thicken in the same fashion as a meat gravy, and use it in 
the same way. 



24. Garlic, 

Bruise in a stone mortar three or four heads of garlic, 
together with a few pistachio nuts and four or five blanched 
almonds : then add two boiled potatoes — or, if you do not 
like potatoes, soaked bread will do : pound all well together, 
adding a little salt and pepper, stir vigorously all the 
ingredients, and the while pour in some olive oil and 
vinegar ; but be very careful not to pour in too heavily 
or too fast, or you will turn your sauce sour. This sauce 
can bo used with almost any kind of fish or poultry. 



25. Geneva. 

Take a few mushrooms, onions, carrots sliced, parsley, 
a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, two ounces of ham, two cloves. 



HAUCES. 333 

a blade of mace, and peppercorns ; pass the whole over 
the fire with a little butter. When it becomes clear, add 
a tablespaonfnl of flour, stir it well over the fire a few 
minutes, and add good consomme (p. 77) to bring it to 
the consistence of cream; with this put half a bottle of 
sherry or Madeira. Let the whole simmer until the roots 
are done; skim it well, and strain it over wdiatever fish 
you have occasion to dress. When the fish is done, take 
it carefully up Avith a slice, drain it, and put the sauce 
into a stew-pan ; boil it, and skim off the fat. The moisture 
from the fish will thin your sauce ; y(ju Avill, therefore, 
reduce it by boiling. Add a little flour and butter kneaded ; 
finish Avith a little anchoA'}^ butter, lemon-juice, and ca3"cnne, 
and mask the fish Avith it. 



26. German Sauce (Sauce Alleniande). 

To make this sauce, the remains of the liquor in Avhich 
fowls have been boiled, or chicken consomme, or indeed 
anything Avhich has a flavour of chicken, should be added 
to an equal quantity of smooth sauce (see No. 63) and set to 
sinnner till reduced ; after Avhich skim, remove the fat, add 
tlie yolks of tAvo or three eggs, a piece of fresh butter of the 
size of a Avalnut, and pass through a sieve. 



27. Gipsy. 

Put tAvo ounces of truffles, chopped very fine, to a glass 
of Madeira or sherry, Avith half a bay-leaf and a little garlic ; 
fill up Avith broAvn Italian sauce (No. 17). When it has 
sufficiently boiled, take out the garlic and bay-leaf, skim, 
and pass through tho colander-spoon. 



334 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

28. Grande. 

Take three or four slices from the under part of a knuckle 
of veal, and put them into a large stew-pan, Avith two ladle- 
fuls of consonnne (p. 77) ; set on a fierce fire, skimming as 
jnuch as possible, and with a cloth wipe away all that adheres 
to the inside of the stew-pan. When the consomme is re- 
duced, prick the slices Avith a knife to let out the gravy ; 
then set tlie stCAv-pan on a small fire, that the meat and 
glaze may adhere together, and as soon as the latter is of 
a clear light colour, take it off, leave it covered for ten 
minutes, then fill it with rich stock, in which are four larQ-e 
carrots and three onions: let it l»oil sloAvIy for two hours. 
In the meantime put the knuckle into a saucepan Avith 
four or five carrots, as many onions (one stuck Avith cloves), 
and tAvo ladlefuls of consomme. Set it on a brisk fire, that 
the liquor may reduce to a jelly; as soon as this jelly begins 
to take colour, pour on it the liquor from the other saucepan, 
to dissolve the jelly gradually; then make it boil. Dilute 
some broAvning Avith this liquor, and add it to the meat 
with some champignons, a bunch of parsley, scallions, and 
two bay-leaves ; sl^im it Avhcn it begins to boil, and again 
Avhen the broAvning is added ; put in more consomme or 
broAvninof, accordinjic as it is too thick or too thin. 



29. Hacliee. 

Choj) up some mushrooms and gherkins, or capers, and 
put them into a shallot-sauce Avith a little parsley finely 
minced. 



30. Ham. 

Beat to a mash Avitli a rolling-pin some thin slices of 
the lean part of a dressed ham, and put it into a saucepan 



SAUCES. 335 

with a tcaciipful of gravy. Set it over a slow fire, and Iceep 
stirring it to prevent its sticking to the bottom. When it 
has been on some time, put in a bunch of sweet herbs, half 
a pint of beef gravy, and. some pepper. Cover it close, let 
it stew over a gentle lire, and when it is done strain it oft". 
This is a ver\' good sauce for any kind of veal. 



31. Hatelets. 

Put some smooth sauce (Xo. Go) on a bit of butter into 
a stew-pan, with some parsley, shallots, and champignons, 
all shredded small; set them on the tire, and when they 
begin to ivy, add a little stock, browning, pepper, nutmeg, a 
bay-leaf, and salt ; reduce the whole to the consistence of 
a beef broth, take out the ba^'-leaf, put in the yolks of three 
eggs, and stir till sufficiently thick. Be careful not to let 
it boil. 



32. HoUandaise. 

As in the Sauce Blanche (No. 10), mix a dessertspoonful 
of flour and four ounces of butter. Moisten with two- 
thirds of the Avater necessary to make the sauce. Let it 
boil for a few minutes, and take the saucepan oft' the 
fire. Mix, while stirriuQ', five yolks of eo-ofs well beaten with 
a little water. Put the sauce back on the fire, so as to 
cook the eggs, and as soon as these are done, take the 
saucepan olf again. Then you nmst proceed as when 
making the Sauce Blanche, adding the juice of one or 
two lemons, eight ounces of butter, and the rest of the 



336 THE THOBOVGII G(JOD COOK. 

water. To make this sauce well, you iimst prepare it 
in a shallow saucepan which holds double the quantity 
which you need, so as to be able to stir quickly. When 
the sauce is ready, you shift it into a smaller saucepan to 
keep it Avarni, leaving the spoon in it, so as to stir from 
time to time. At the moment of serving, if too thick, 
add" a little Avater and fresh but tor. 



33. Hot Horseradish. 

Fry together in a stew-pan two oiuiccs of butter and 
two ounces of flour, without discolouring them ; then mix 
in half a pint of Avell-flavourcd chicken stock, and half a 
gill of cream, and stir all together till it boils; add the juice 
of one lemon, and tAvo raw yolks of eggs, and stir over 
the fire again till it thickens, but do not let it boil : put 
in a teaspoonful of mixed English mustard, Avring through 
the tanmry, add a tablespoonful of French vinegar, a dust 
of castor sugar, and four large tablespoonfuls of freshly- 
grated horseradish sauce; mix well, and use. 



34. Italian. 

Put some lemon, parsley, thyme, and mushrooms, shredded 
small, into a stew-pan with a little butter and a clove of 
garlic. Set on a moderate fire ; as soon as the butter begins 
to fry, pour in a little consomme (p. 77), and let stCAv till 
pretty thick ; then take out the garlic, add some butter sauce 
and a little lemon-juice. (For Brown Italian, see No. 17.) 



SAUCES. 337 

35. Lemon. 

Pare the rind off a lemon, cut it into slices, take the 
pips out, and cut into small square bits. Blanch the 
liver of a fowl and chop it fine. Mix the lemon and liver 
together in a boat, pour on some hot melted butter, and 
stir up. 



36. Lobster. 

Cut up your lobsters into good-sized dice. Pound the 
spawn with a piece of butter as large as a walnut, and 
rub it through a sieve ; put it into a stew-pan, adding as 
much melted butter as required for the sauce ; season with 
a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, a little lemon-juice, 
cayenne, pepper, and salt ; stir it on the fire till nearly boiling, 
and strain it through the tammy over your lobster. Add 
a small piece of glaze. 



37. Lyounaise. 

Slice three onions, which pass in a little butter with a 
small piece of ham ; when nicely browned, add Spanish sauce 
(No. 64), according to the quantity wanted, and a ragout- 
spoonful of consomme (p. 77) ; let it boil ; draw it to 
the corner of the stove to throw up the fat ; skim well, 
and pass it through a tammy ; put it into another stew- 
pan with button onions cut in rings, fried brown, and drained 
in a cloth ; let it boil five minutes. Take off any butter 
wliich may rise, and keep your sauce hot in the metal 
bath. Some call this Bretonne sauce. 



w 



338 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

38. Matelote. 

Cut up twelve or eighteen small white onions, and as 
many mushrooms ; fry them in butter, but do not let them 
brown; add two dessertspoonfuls of flour, pepper, salt, and 
grated nutmeg, with half a pint of broth and a glass of 
white wine. Let the whole boil gently ; beat up the yolks 
of three eggs, and stir in. Add the juice of a lemon just 
before servinQ-. 



39. Mayonnaise. 

Take a round-bottomed basin, j)kxce therein three yolks 
of eggs, a little pepper and salt, and with a wooden spoon 
proceed to work therein, by turning the spoon round quickly, 
about half a pint of salad oil and half a gill of tarragon 
vinegar ; these must be incorjDorated by degrees, almost drop 
by drop ; and in order to produce the sauce in perfection, 
it must present the appearance of a firm, creamy substance. 
This cold sauce is especially adapted for chicken and lobster 
salads. 



40. Mirepoix. 

Cut two pounds of fillet of veal, one pound of fat bacon, 
one pound of lean ham, four carrots, four onions, all into 
dice ; pass off the whole with one pound of fresh butter, some 
whole parsley, a handful of mushrooms, two shallots, the 
least particle of garlic, a bay-leaf, a little thyme and basil, 
two cloves, a blade of mace, and a little pepper. The whole 
drawn over a slow fire, add the flesh of two lemons sliced thin 
(removing the pips), three ladlefuls of consomme (p. 77), and 
half a pint of good Avhite wine; simmer the mirepoix for 
two hours, and squeeze it through a tammy. Use this for 
entrees directed to be prejDared " a la mirepoix." 



SAUCES. 339 

41. Monglas. 

Mix till quite smooth a small spoonful of flour with 
butter, and moisten with the liquor in which you have 
boiled the joint with which the sauce is to be served. 
Add some juice of mushroom, and let it boil for ten 
minutes. Kemove the saucepan from the fire. Thicken 
with three yolks of eggs beaten up with milk. Then 
bring it to the boil again, taking care to stir all the 
time. To be reaUy good, this sauce should be thick. Add 
the juice of a lemon, some truffles cut in shreds, the tails 
of cray-fish or a few shrimps, and a little parsley. 



42. Montpelier Butter. 

Well Avash a small handful of chervil, the leaves of a 
dozen sprigs of tarragon, as much burnet, and a few small 
green onions ; blanch and cool them. Boil four eggs hard ; 
drain and squeeze your herbs dry, pound them with ten 
anchovies, boned and wiped, a tablespoonful of capers, the 
yolks of the eggs ; scrape a little garlic with the point of your 
knife and rub it into your butter, with a little whole pepper, 
salt, and grated nutmeg ; the whole well pounded. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of fine olive oil and a teaspoonful of elder 
or tarragon vinegar. Colour it, when thoroughly pounded, 
either with spinach green (p. 352), or with red lobster spawn 
pounded and mixed with it. Rub it through a hair-sieve, 
and set it in ice till wanted to ornament meat or fish salads. 
Let it be observed that no flavour should predominate. 



43. Onion. 

Cut four or five large onions in slices. Simmer these 
gently with four ounces of butter and four ounces of 
w 2 



340 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

ham (lean and fat), a pinch of flour, salt, pepper, a pinch 
of white sugar, a little stock, and the juice of a lemon. 
This sauce is delicious with warmed-up meats, white or 
brown. 



44. Orange. 

Peel two Seville oranges as thinly as possible, taking 
off the 3'ellow peel only, which cut in thin shreds about 
an inch long, and blanch in boiling water till tender; drain 
them, and put them into a stew-pan with two or three 
tablespoonfuls of Spanish sauce (N"o. 64), a little brown 
broth (p. 77), and a little sugar ; let the whole simmer 
gently at the corner of the stove ten minutes ; skim it, 
and serve it with the addition of a little lemon-juice, the 
juice of half an orange, a little glaze, and cayenne. This 
sauce must be kept rather thin. 



45. Orleans. 

Put into a saucepan three or four teaspoonfuls of 
vinegar, a little pepper, some shallot, and an ounce of 
butter; reduce this, and add four or five ladlefuls of brown 
sauce. When ready for table, put into 3'our sauce four 
or five sfherkins, the whites of three hard-boiled eo-q-s five 
anchovies, a carrot (all cut into dice), and a dessertspoon- 
ful of white capers. Make it quite hot, but not boiling, and 
serve. 



46. Oyster. 

Preserve the liquor of your oysters as you open them, 
and strain it through a fine sieve. Wash the oysters very 



SAUCES. 341 

clean, and take off the beards. Put them mto a stew-pan, 
and pour the liquor over them. Add a large spoonful 
of anchovy liquor, half a lemon, two blades of mace, and 
thicken with butter rolled in flour. Then put in half a 
pound of butter, and boil it up till the butter is melted. 
Now take out the mace and lemon, and squeeze the lemon- 
juice into the sauce. Give it a boil, stirring it all the 
time, and pour it into your sauce-boat. 



47. Poor Man's Sauce. 

Put a dessertspoonful of chopped shallots into half a gill 
of vinegar with a blade of mace, a clove, fifteen or twenty 
peppercorns, a small piece of ham, a small piece of bay-leaf, a 
sprig of thyme, and a little parsley ; reduce this three-fourths ; 
add two ragout-spoonfuls of Spanish sauce (No. 64), and 
one of consomme (p. 77) ; stir it on the fire till boiling, and 
draw it to the corner of the stove to imbibe flavour. Skim 
it, and pass it through a colander spoon. This sauce should 
be kept very thin. 



48. Portuguese. 
Put into a saucepan a quarter of a pound of butter, the 
yolks of two raw eggs, a dessertspoonful of lemon-juice ; 
salt and pepper according to taste. Set it on a moderate 
fire, stirring constantly till hot. Then vannez or mill it 
rapidly to unite the butter and eggs. Should it be too 
thick, put a very little Avater to it. This sauce ought not 
to be made till just as it is wanted. 



342 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

49, Provencale. 

Chop finely some shallots, a small leek, let these slightly 
brown in a small quantity of olive oil. Then add a little 
flour, and moisten with a mixture of broth and Chablis. 
Chop some mushrooms (raw, or lightly fried in butter) with 
some parsley. Put this into the sauce, with a pinch of pepper 
and salt. Let it boil for ten minutes, and just before serving 
add the juice of a lemon. 



v/t)+GV''* — * 



50. Ravigote Butter. 

Take equal proportions of parsley, tarragon, and chervil ; 
chop them very fine, season with a little pepper and salt ; 
rub a tablespoonful in with a quarter of a pound of fresh 
butter; put it on the ice to set. If used for breakfast, or 
served at the side-table, cut it with a warm cutter in pieces 
of whatever shape you please. This butter may always be 
used as a erarnish for salads. 



51. Biiclielieu. 

Chop up very tine six ounces or so of mushrooms 
lightly fried in butter, and one or two truffles peeled. Put 
into a saucepan two small spoonfuls of smooth sauce (No. 63) ; 
reduce it slightly, then take it off the tire and mix in the 
mushrooms and the truffles; add three yolks of eggs, and 
boil the sauce for some two or three minutes, stirring it 
all the time. It is best to make this sauce in a shallow 
saucepan and to pour it afterwards into a smaller one. 
Just before serving mix in a piece of butter, but do not 
let it boil again. This sauce should be thick ; but if it 
be too thick, thin it with the juice of mushrooms or with 
broth. 



SAUCES. 343 

52. Robert. 

This is one of the most ancient of sauces, and also one 
of the most appetising, only you must clear your head of the 
nonsensical notion that a cuisine into which onions enter 
must be of necessity a vulgar one. Indeed, the whole Temple 
of Cookery, as far as flavouring is concerned, may be said 
to rest on four pillars — the onion and its congeners, the lemon, 
the anchovy, and the faggot of sweet herbs. The dome 
of the edifice is the spice-box, and it is flanked on each side 
by smaller cupolas, the salt-box and the pepper-box. Now 
for Sauce Robert. 

Peel and cut up four middling-sized onions into very 
small cubes, which place in a stew-pan with two ounces of 
butter ; stir over a moderate fire till slightly brown, then 
add a tablespoonful and a half of malt vinegar, and let it 
boil; add half a pint of brown sauce (No. 14) with half a 
pint of consomme (p. 77); simmer beside the fire for ten 
minutes ; skim well ; stir over a brisk fire, reduce until it is 
as thick as the apple-sauce usually served with pork ; finish 
with two tablespoonfuls of made mustard and a little sugar 
and salt, if Mrs. Cook thinks them requisite. Some prefer 
French mustard ; but when Sauce Robert goes with pork, I 
prefer the English. 

In the South of France, Sauce Robert is made in the 
Provengal fashion — two tablespoonfuls of salad oil are used 
instead of the two ounces of butter, and the finishing touch 
is given with a piece of scraped garlic the size of a pea. I 
merely cite the dish, as there are a multitude of English 
ladies who abhor the very idea of what Charles Lamb calls 
" the rank and guilty garlic " — although they eat a great 
deal more of it than they wot of Avhen they dine at French 
restaurants. 



3U THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

53. Roiiiaine. 

Cut a pound of veal and half a pound of ham into dice, 
and put tlieni into a saucepan with two legs of fowl, three 
or four carrots, four onions, two bay-leaves, three cloves, a 
little basil, half a pound of butter, and some salt ; set 
these on a rather brisk tire. In the meanwhile, pound the 
yolks of twelve hard-boiled eggs to a paste, which put to 
the above and stir them in till the butter is entirely melted ; 
then pour in, by degrees, a quart of cream. Set the sauce- 
pan again on the hre for half an hour, stirring all the time ; 
if it be too thick, add more cream or milk. "When suf- 
ficiently done, strain it through a tanmiy. 



54. Salmi. 

Chop up small trimmings of the roast game intended for 
the salmi, and put these mto a small stew-pan, with a ba}^- 
leaf, and thyme, and a teaspoonful of salad oil. Fry the 
whole of a light-brown colour, and then add a glass of white 
wine and half a pint of brown sauce ; boil gently on the 
corner of the stove for ten minutes ; remove the srrease and 
scum, and strain into a small stew-pan for use. 



55. Sauce for Fillet a la Godard. 

Mix a tablespoonful of flour with some butter j moisten 
with good gravy. Let it boil, and add some forcemeat-balls, 
mushrooms steeped in butter, truffles cut in thin slices, some 
morels, some sweetbreads cut up, a little cayenne pepper, and a 
pinch of white powdered sugar. Let all these ingredients boil 
for two minutes, then add a drop of Madeira and the juice of 
a lemon. When the flllet is roasted, put the gravy and the 



SAUCES. 345 

butter into the sauce. You must also put the fillet into 

it, if it has to be kept hot ; in this case, however, be 
careful not to let it boil. 



56. Sauce for Fillets of Wild Duck. 

Two teaspoonfuls of currant jelly, a glass of port, with 
the rind and juice of a Seville orange, cayenne pepper, and 
a teaspoonful of made mustard ; give it a boil, stirring all 
the time ; take out the peel of the orange, and pour the sauce 
hot over the fillets. 



57. Sauce for Wild Fowl. 

Take a proper quantity of veal gravy, and put to it a 
little of the liquor, with some pepper and salt ; squeeze in 
the juice of two Seville oranges, add a little red wine, and 
let the wine boil some time in the gravy. This is a good 
sauce for wild duck, teal, etc. 



58. Sauce for Roast Meat in General. 

Wash an anchovy clean, and put to it a glass of red 
wine, some gravy, a shallot cut small, and a little lemon- 
juice. Stew these together, strain off, and mix with the 
gravy that runs from the meat. 



59. Shallot. 

Chop up some shallots and lightly brown them in butter ; 
as soon as they begin to colour, add a pinch of Hour and 
moisten with broth and a few drops of vinegar. Then 



3-46 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

put in a good pinch of pepper, and let the whole boil for 
ten minutes, stirring all the time. 



60. Sharp Sauce (Sauce Piquante). 

t^hop up some shallots and boil them for ten minutes 
with two or three teaspoonfuls of vinegar, a little water 
or broth, a good pinch of pepper and salt. Pour in some 
thick sauce. Just before serving, add a gherkin chopped up 
very fine. (See also No. 18.) 

Another Sharp Sauce (in a hurry). 

Boil vinegar down to two-thirds of its bulk, with onions 
and shallots chopped very fine, salt and pepper. Moisten 
with Liebig's Extract ; thicken with a little flour worked 
up with butter, and after the first boil-up add minced 
gherkins. A capital sauce for a cutlet, if an extra friend or 
two come to luncheon. 



61. Shrimp. 

Put half a pint of shrimps washed very clean into a stew- 
pan, with a teaspoonful of anchovy liquor, and half a pound 
of butter melted thick. Boil it up for five minutes, and 
squeeze in half a lemon. Toss it up, and pour it into a 
sauce-boat. 



62. Sicilian. 

Bruise half a teaspoonful of coriander seeds and four 
cloves in a mortar. Put three-quarters of a pint of good 
gravy, and a quarter of a pint of essence of ham, into a stew- 



SAUCES. 347 

pan. Peel half a lemon, cut it into very thin slices, and put 
it in with the coriander seeds and cloves. Let them boil 
up, and then add three cloves of garlic whole, a head of 
celery sliced, two bay-leaves, and a little basil. Let these 
boil till the liquor is reduced to half the quantity. Then 
put in a glass of white wine, strain it off, and if not thick 
enough, put in a piece of butter rolled in flour. This is 
a good sauce for roast fowl. 



63. Smooth (Veloutee). 

Mix quite smooth a dessertspoonful of flour with a piece 
of butter. Moisten with a little consomme (see p. 77) and 
a little gravy, or with the liquor in which you have boiled 
a fowl, or with some clarified jelty, also mixed with a small 
quantity of gravy. Moisten so that the sauce remains thick. 
Stir it round, take it off, and add the yolks of three eggs 
beaten in boiling milk ; then place it again on the fire for 
three minutes. If the sauce is too thick, thin it with a 
little beef broth, the juice of mushrooms, and some boiled 
milk. Salt according to taste. Add a small pinch of 
pepper, and a piece of butter, which you should stir into 
the sauce so that it holds together. Then pour into a jar 
ready for use. 



64. Spanish (Espagnole). 

Put into a saucej^an four ounces of butter and two 
small spoonfuls of flour. Warm these till the butter is 
melted ; then moisten with a little gravy and boil for a 
quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, stirring all the while 
Pass the sauce through a sieve, if necessary ; leave the spoon 
in it, so as to stir from time to time until it has cooled. 



348 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

This sauce is the basis of all brown sauces. The 
evening before a grand dinner it is as well to prepare a 
sufficient quantity of it, so as to have plenty for mixing 
pur}; o.ses. 

65. Steward's (Maitre d'Hotel). 

Take three ounces of fresh butter and a teaspoonful of 
flour, which knead well together in a stew-pan ; add two 
ragoiit-spoonfuls of consomme (p. 77), and a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsle}^ Put it on the tire, and stir it till it 
nearly boils, after which take it off, and work in a small 
piece of fresh butter and a little lemon-juice, seasoned with 
pepper and salt. 



66. Sweet. 

Put some cinnamon into a saucepan with as much water 
as will cover it ; set it on the fire, and when it has boiled 
up once or twice, add two teaspoonfuls of j^owderecl sugar, 
a quarter of a pint of white wine, and two baj^-leaves ; give 
the whole one boil, then strain it for table. 



67. Tartar. 

Rub the yolk of a cold, hard-boiled egg through a hair- 
sieve into a basin, and add the 3'olks of two raw eggs, with 
a little salt and pepper. Most carefully mix together with 
a wooden spoon ; have a pint of good salad oil — you onust 
have oil in this case — in a bottle ; hold it in your left hand 
over the basin, dropping it in very, very gradually, and 
with your right continue stirring till the mixture becomes 
a thick paste; then moisten with a little tarragon vinegar, 
still stirring, stirring, stirring. Then more oil, and so forth, 



SA UCES. 3-40 

till you have used all the oil ; still keeping the sauce 
rather thick, but not stiff. Add a teaspoonful of gherkins, 
chopped fine, half a dozen chopped capers, the same of 
chopped shallots and parsley ; two teaspoonfuls of French 
mustard of the lightest colour, a dust of cayenne pepper, 
a tiny bit of sugar, and more salt if required. As for salt 
and pepper, I conceive it to be impertinent and useless to 
prescribe the exact quantities to be used. A cook who 
knoAvs her business is quite aware of what is meant by a 
" dust " or a " pinch " of this or that condiment. If she does 
not know her business, let her go and excel somewhere else. 
I need only say that tartar sauce should be rather highly 
seasoned. 

If, Lady Housekeeper, you are rebellious against oil, as 
many ladies are, send U]3 your fried fish with shrimp sauce, 
which will be pink and light enough to present a contrast 
to the black butter, or any dark sauce, which may precede it. 



68. Tomato. 

Crush half a dozen (more or less, as required) very ripe 
tomatoes, and put them into a stew-pan over a quick fire, 
so as to sweat the water from them; then put them on 
a sieve, that the water may drain from them ; slice three 
or four shallots, and put them into the stew-pan with an 
ounce of ham and a dozen peppercorns ; fry these a few 
minutes, then add the tomatoes ; stir over a brisk fire 
till the moisture has evaporated ; then add half a pint of 
brown sauce (No. 14), with a Httle consomme (p. 77) : let this 
simmer a quarter of an hour ; rub it through a tammy and 
put it into a stew-pan, thinning it sufiiciently with consomme 
for the scum and butter to rise. When well skimmed, season 
with a little glaze and a little lemon-juice. 



350 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

69. Toulouse. 

Mix a dessertspoonful of flour witli a little butter till 
quite smooth. Add some good gravy, and let it boil for 
ten minutes, taking care to stir all the time. Add some 
mushrooms lightly fried in butter; some truffles cut up in 
small pieces, morels, cocks'-combs and cocks' kidneys, a little 
parsley chopped very line, a pinch of pepper, and the juice 
of a lemon. 



70. "Turned" (Tournee). 

Put three or four pieces of ham into a stew-pan with a 
little butter and some champignons ; set it on a moderate 
fire, stirring till the butter begins to look clear ; add some 
brown sauce (No. 14); put to it three tablespoonfuls of 
strained consomme (p. 77), stir in, and keep addmg more, at 
intervals, until you have as much as you require. Set it on 
the fire and let it boil slowly, stirring constantly. When 
reduced to the proper thickness (which is that of good 
melted butter), strain it through a tammy, to use when 
wanted. 

71. Universal. 

Into a pint of broth put a glass of white wine, salt, pepper, 
a little zest {i.e. the grated peel of a lemon), a bay-leaf, and a 
dash of lemon-juice; let this macerate by the side of the 
fire for eight hours, and serve, poured over meat, game, fish, 
or vegetables. It will keep good for many days. 



72. Vegetable (Jus Maigre de Hacines). 

Put in a saucepan a piece of butter or a little oil, a carrot, 
a turnip and an onion all cut into dice, two heads of celery ; 



SAUCES. 351 

stir the vegetables well with a wooden spoon, and when 
they are properly browned, moisten with pea-soup or with 
boiling- water ; season with a little salt ; let boil for a few 
minutes, and pass through the sieve. 



73. White Caper. 

Make some Sauce Blanche (No, 10), and, just before 
serving, add a large pinch of capers. 



74. "White Fish Sauce. 

Simmer together an anchovy, a little horseradish scraped, 
some mace, an onion stuffed with cloves, a piece of lemon- 
peel, a glass of white wine, and a quarter of a pint of water ; 
when properly reduced, strain it, then add two teaspoonfuls of 
cream, and a piece of butter rolled in flour ; set it on the fire 
again, and keep stirring till it boils. When ready to serve, 
put in a little catsup and some lemon-juice. 



75. White Roux, or Thickening. 

Clarify four ounces of butter, with which mix about 
eight tablespoonfuls of flour in a stew-pan, on a slow Are ; 
stir it well with a wooden spoon till perfectly smooth. Be 
particularly careful that it is not of a deeper colour than cream. 
Place it over a dead fire a quarter of an hour, stirring oc- 
casionally. You may use it directly, if wanted, or it will 
keep, for which purpose put it in a pot. The above, when 
mixed with about five pints of stock, will be of the consis- 
tence of cream. 



352 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

Another Thicl'enimj {Brown Eoux). 

As above, observing that you use six tablespoonfuls of 
flour, as this must not be so thick as the other. Make it 
on a rather stronger fire, and let it take a nut-brown colour 
very gradually; be careful that it does not burn, for the 
slightest burning would cause it to be speckled with dark 
spots and embitter your sauce. 



To Colour Sauces or Purees Green. 

Take two or three handfuls of fresh spinach, thoroughly 
wash and pound it, and squeeze the juice through a cloth, as it 
discolours the tammy and makes it unfit for delicate sauces. 
Put the juice in a stew-pan on the fire with a little salt, 
stirring without leaving it, and the moment it curdles take off 
the pan and put cold water into it. Drain your spinach 
green on a hair-sieve and put it between two cloths to extract 
the moisture from it. If for colouring sugar and sweetmeats, 
mix it well with a little sugar passed through a silk-sieve. It 
will then, with a damp paper on the top, keep two or three 
weeks. 

Green extract of parsley (" Verd de Persil ") is prepared 
precisely in the same way as spinach green ; parsley retains 
a flavour required in many sauces, whereas extract of spinach 
is without savour. 



353 



Section IX.— VEGETABLES. 



1. Half-Glaze for Vegetables. 

Put two quarts of brown sauce (p. 329) into a stew-pan with a 
quart of ^consomme (p. 77), one ounce of glaze, four table- 
spoonfuls of tomato-sauce ; put it over the tire, and when 
boiling place it at the corner, let it simmer very fast, skim 
it well, and reduce it to a clear hght glaze, Avith sufficient 
consistence to adhere lightly to the back of a spoon ; then 
put it in a basin for use w^hen wanted. 



2. Glazed Onions for Garnish. 

Peel ten full-sized onions, taking care to keep them whole; 
put them into a saucepan in which you have previously 
melted some butter; add half an ounce of sugar, salt, a 
glass of broth ; let boil over a slow fire until the gravy 
be reduced to a jelly. When done and well coloured, servo 
the onions with a piece of beef or some entree ; mix the 
glaze in the saucepan with a little broth, and pour it over 
the onions. 



8. Catiliflowers. 

Of caulidowers in general, it may be remarked that they 
require great care in cleaning. The best way is to throw 

X 



354 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

plenty of salt over them and put them in cold water till 
ready to cook. Boil them till tender, but don't do them 
too much, or they will not hold together. Drain them care- 
fully when done, and press them with a cloth. The heads, 
should not be too large, and the best are close and firm. 

.For plain cooking, cut off the stalks, but leave a little 
green on ; boil them in spring water and salt ; they are 
soon done, but they must not boil too fast. They may 
also be dressed in milk and water without salt. 



Another Wcnj. 

Blanch the cauliflowers for a short time, with a slice of 
streaky bacon, butter and salt ; when about half done, put 
them in a stew-pan with a little veal gravy ; reduce the same 
sauce, and serve very hot. 



4. Cauliflowers and Butter. 

Prepare two cauliflowers, and when they are drained 
and cut in jiieces, put them into a stew-f)an with a bit of 
butter, some salt, and lemon-juice; let them boil a little 
at first, then simmer; be careful that they are not done too 
much. Take them out, cover them with a sauce made 
with butter worked with flour, the yolks of eggs, and a 
little cream. 



5. Cauliflower Loaf. 

Trim and parboil a fine cauliflower, then put it into 
cold water and drain it. Line the bottom of a stew-pan (of 
the size of the dish you intend to use) with slices of bacon, 
and place the cauliflower on them with the head downwards. 



VEGETABLES. 355 

Make a stuffing Avith a fillet of veal, beef suet, parsley, seal- 
lions, muslirooms, all chopped small, salt, pepper, and three 
eggs ; "when these are well mixed together, put the stuffing 
into the open spaces of the cauliflower, pressing it in with 
the hand; season it well, and stew it with some stock. 
When the sauce is consumed, turn the cauliflower out care- 
fully on the dish, take away the bacon, and pour over it some 
cullis, with a little butter, and serve. 



6. Caiiliflowers, Genoan Fashion. 

After the cauliflowers are boiled and are cold, sprinkle 
them with Gruyere and Parmesan cheese grated; put them 
into a dish that has been buttered and strewn with cheese. 
Sprinkle bread-crumbs on this, pour butter over, then more 
bread-crumbs. Put the dish on hot ashes and brown the tops. 



7. Cauliflowers k la Heine. 

Make a sauce with a little ham and a fillet of veal cut 
into dice, a little butter, chopped parsley, shallots, and a clove 
of garlic ; let it stew over the fire a little while, then add 
a few teaspoonfuls of jelly-broth and half a pint of cream; 
reduce it to a good thickness, strain part of it into your 
dish, and place the cauliflower, properly prepared, therein; 
pour the remaining sauce over that; garnish with bread- 
crumbs and small bits of butter, and brown in the oven. 



8. Cauliflowers k la Mayonnaise. 

The cauliflowers, thoroughly washed and cleared of their 
leaves, must be put into boiling- water, butter, and salt ; when 
X 2 



356 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

they are firm, take the saucepan from the fire and let them 
cool in the water. When they are cold, drain them, and 
put them into oil, vinegar, salt, and a mignonette to soak for 
two hours. Dish them in the form of a pyramid as high as 
you can make it ; mask them with a white mayonnaise, and 
place round them a border of aspic jelly, cut in triangles. 



9. Cauliflower an Gratin. 

To make a gratin of a cauliflower, you must take a 
cold one, carefully divide it, plentifully endue each separate 
sprig with butter ; build together again ; do the top with 
pieces of butter, plentifully sprinkle with grated Parmesan 
cheese and a few brown crumbs ; place in a baking-dish, 
heat in the oven, and brown of a rich golden hue with a 
salamander ; or if you have not got a salamander, let the 
oven do the browning. 

There is a cheap as well as a dear way of preparing this 
delicious dish. The expensive Avay is to make a sauce in a 
stew-pan with cream, pepper, salt, and cayenne, reducing 
it over a sharp fire till it begins to get thick, adding grated 
Parmesan mixed with half its weight of Gruyere cheese, and 
stirring in two yolks of eggs. Then pour your sauce over 
the cauliflower, garnish with egg and bread-crumbs, place 
in a Avarm oven for a quarter of an hour, salamander 
and serve. For the cheap, the very cheap, and quife as 
savoury way, treat your cauliflower with dripping instead 
of butter, and sprinkle not with expensive Parmesan but 
with Dutch or any other cheese that comes handy, Avhich 
you may grate down to the very rind. 



VEGETABLES. 357 

10. Ragout of Cabbages. 

Boil in water for half an hour the half of a cabbage ; 
put it into fresh water, press it well, take away the stalk, chop 
the leaves a little, and put them into a saucepan with a piece 
of butter ; set this upon the tire, put in a pinch of flour, 
pour over enough beef broth and gravy to give a yellow 
colour to the ragout; let it boil by a slow tire until the 
cabbage be tender and reduced to a sauce ; season it Avith 
salt and pepper and a little nutmeg, and serve it with meat. 



11. Cabbage Pudding. 

Scald one or more nice tender cabbages ; bruise, and 
season with a little mace or nutmeg, ginger, pepper, and 
salt ; put in some green gooseberries or barberries, and a few 
large spoonfuls of either swelled rice or of bread-crumbs ; 
add some butter, broken in small pieces ; mix well with 
the yolks of four eggs well beaten. Wrap the Avhole up in 
a large cabbage-leaf, tie it in a cloth, and boil it an hour. 



12. Calecaunon. 

This is an Irish dish, and is made by boiling and mashing* 
green young cabbage and spinach, and then mixing them 
with good mealy mashed potatoes, butter, pepper, and salt, 
and pressing the whole into a basin or mould, well buttered. 
Set in a hot oven Ave or six minutes; then turn out on 
a dish. In this dish two-thirds should be potatoes. 



13. Spinach Pudding. 

Pick and Avasli clean a quarter of a peck of spinach ; 
put it into a saucepan with a little salt, cover it close, and 



358 THE THOllOUGH GOOD COOK. 

when it is boiled just tender, throw it into a sieve to 
drain. Then chop it with a knife, beat up six eggs, and 
mix them with haU' a pint of cream and a stale roll grated 
fine, a little nutmeg, and a quarter of a pound of melted 
butter. Stir all well together, put it into the saucepan in 
which you boiled the spinach, and keep stirring it all the 
time till it begins to thicken. Then wet and flour your 
cloth well, tie it up, and boil it an hour. When the 
pudding is done, turn it into the dish, pour melted butter 
over it, with the juice of a Seville orange, and strew on 
it a little grated sugar. 



14. Puree of Spinach. 

Pat the spinach in plenty of boiling water; when done, 
throw it into cold water ; scpieeze it dry, and chop it fine. 
Put it in a stew-pan with a little clarified butter, in which 
you have fried bread, cut in triangles if for a second 
course ; if not, the shape is immaterial, as 3'ou only wish 
to flavour your butter with the bread. Stir it about ten 
minutes, that the moisture may evaporate ; add a ladleful 
of Spanish sauce (p. 347), season with pepper and salt ; a 
small piece of glaze may be added. For entrees, rub this 
through the hair-sieve. 



15, Brussels Sprouts and Cucumbers. 

Make a turban of cucumbers, cut and dressed in the 
following manner : — Cut them in pieces about two inches 
long, peel each separately, then cut the outside into three 
slices, leaving the seeds in one piece in the middle. Trim 
off all the edges neatly : put half a tablespoonful of sugar 
into a stew-pan with an ounce of butter, a little chopped 
shallot, and the pieces of cucumber ; pass them over a moderate 



VEGETABLES. 359 

fire ten minutes without breaking, and keep them quite 
white : add a little white broth, just enough to cover 
them ; let them simmer until tender, then lay them with 
s, colander-spoon on a sieve to dry, and place them upon a 
border of mashed potatoes. Boil sufficient Brussels sprouts, 
Avhicli dress in pyramid shape over the cucumbers with 
a good sauce Hollandaise (p. 335), and over the sprouts 
pour a good Bechamel sauce (p. 327), not too thick, so that 
the sprouts may show through it. They may likewise be 
dressed m a border of Jerusalem artichokes. 

Peas and French beans may also be dressed in a turban 
of the above description. 



16. Stewed Cucumbers. 

Slice some cucumbers thick, or cut them into halves 
and divide them into two lengths; strew over them some 
salt, pepper, and sliced onions; add a little broth, or a bit 
of butter. Simmer very slowly, and before you serve them, 
if you have used no butter put in some, also a little flour, 
miless the dish lacks richness. 



17. Cucumber Toast. 

Make a ragout of cucumbers well thickened; add to it 
the 3'olks of three eggs, dress them upon crumbs of bread, 
draw over the whole a knife dipped in a beaten egg; cover 
with grated bread and then fry. 



18. Ragout of Cucumbers. 

Cut a number of cucumbers in half, taking out the 
seeds, slice them very thin, and soak them in vinegar, salt. 



360 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

pepper, and sliced onions. When the}^ have lain in this 
a sufficient time, take them out and press them dry in a 
cloth : put them into a saucepan with butter, smooth sauce 
(p. 347), and stock, if your ragout is to be white, with Spanish 
sauce (p. 347) Avithout butter and nutmeg- if brown ; add a 
bunch of sweet herbs. When done, thicken with yolks of 
eggs ; put in a little lemon-juice, and serve. 



19. Another Rago6t of Cucumbers. 

The cucumbers mus' be pared, the inside taken out, 
and then cut in pieces ; lay these in a dish singly, wdth 
half a teaspoonful of vinegar and a little salt, for two hours, 
turning them frequently; by this means the juice, which 
is so cold to the stomach, will be drawn out of them ; then 
press them in a cloth, and put them in a saucepan Avith 
some butter ; shake them over the fire ; add a pinch of 
flour, and moisten them with veo-etable broth ; let them 
simmer on a slow fire till they are done enough, then 
put in a thickening of yolks of eggs and a little milk ; 
set them on the fire again, but not to boil. 



20. "Steward's" Potatoes (^ la Maitre d'Hdtel). 

Boil the potatoes ; before they are quite done take them 
up, place them aside, and let them get cold ; cut them in 
slices of a moderate thickness ; put into a stew-pan a lump 
of fresh butter and a teaspoonful of flour; let the butter 
boil, and add a teacupful of broth ; boil again and add 
the potatoes, which you have covered with parsley, chopped 
fine, and seasoned with pepper and salt; stew them five 
minutes, remove them from the fire, and beat up the yolk of 
one egg with a tablespoonfLd of water and a little lemon-juice. 
The sauce will set ; then dish up the potatoes and serve. 



VEGETABLES. 361 

21. Potato Stuffing. 

Cut lip raw potatoes into little dice ; drain them dry, 
and put them in a stew-pan with butter, shredded onion or 
shallot, also parsley, salt and pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, 
if approved. Cover the stew-pan close and let steam, shak- 
ing it now and then. The potatoes must not be suffered to 
get soft enough to mash. Have some sausages fried, and 
Avhen cold take off the skins and cut them into thin 
little slices. Mix these with the potatoes ; or, instead of 
sausages, mince iine the raw liver of a goose, or some 
pig's liver, and stir it among the potatoes a few minutes 
before the stuliino- is used. 



22. Potato Pudding. 

Boil two pounds of potatoes, pound them fine in a mortar, 
and beat in half a pound of melted butter; boil half an 
hour ; pour melted butter over, with a glass of white wine 
or the juice of an orange, and throw sugar all over the 
pudding and dish. 



23. Potato Cake. 

Pare half a pound of steamed or Avell-boiled dry potatoes 
and pound them in a mortar ; add butter and milk in which 
sugar has been dissolved ; when the potatoes are well-beaten 
and mixed, set the paste on the fire and boil it ; stir it 
into a basin to cool ; then put to it the 3'olks of eight eggs, 
a sufficient quantity of sugar, the whites of four eggs beaten 
to a snow, and two spoonfuls of orange-Hower water. Take a 
mould, butter the inside well, sprinkle the sides over with 
bread-crumbs, and pour in the above preparation ; bake till 
nicely coloured, when it ma}' be turned on to a dish. Serve 
with some sauce. 



362 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

24. Potato Souffle. 

Take any number of large potatoes — the less eyes and 
the tirmer the skin the better. Clean them thoroughly, 
and then bake them : after which cut a round piece not quite 
so large as a half-crown out of each potato, and remove 
as much of the mside as can be obtained without damage 
to the skin. Mash the potato Avith cream, adding a little 
butter, sprinkle over a little salt, and put to it half a pint 
of milk ; give it all a boil ; take the whites of three eggs, 
Avhip them until they froth, add them to the potato while 
it boils, and then make the 23otato into a paste ; return this 
through the oritice in the skin until each skin is full ; bake 
them, and serve. 



25. Potato Rissoles. 

Boil the potatoes floury ; mash them, seasoning with salt 
and a little cayenne ; mince parsley very fine, and work 
up with the potatoes, adding shallot, also chopped fine ; 
bind with yolk of eg^; roll into balls, and fry with fresh 
butter over a clear fire. Meat shredded hnel}', including 
bacon and ham, may be added. 



26. Potato Omelette. 

This may be made with a mashed potato and four eggs, 
seasoned with pepper and salt and a little nutmeg-. It 
should be thick, and, being rather substantial, a squeeze 
of lemon will iiuprove it. Fry a light brown. 



VEGETABLES. 363 

27. Potato Fritters. 

Wash and pare some potatoes ; cut them into tliin slices, 
which soak for half an hour in a little brandy, with the rind 
of a lemon ; then drain, dip them in good batter, and fry 
them of a nice colour; drain them again, place the fritters 
in a dish, sprmkle sugar over, and servo them hot. 



28. Potato Cheese-Cabes. 

Pare and boil thoroughly half a pound of the best kind of 
potatoes ; when quite done, rub them through a sieve, and 
mix with them two eggs, well beaten, a sufficient quantity 
of milk to make into a paste, a few currants, a little spice, 
and grated bread. Lay this on puff-paste, like other cheese- 
cakes, and bake. 



29. To Ragout French Beans. 

Boil some beans till tender, then take your stew-pan 
and put in a piece of butter; when it is melted, dredge in 
flour; then peel a large onion, slice and fry it brown in 
the butter ; next put in the beans, with a little pepper, 
salt, and nutmeg; boil up, and add the yolk of an egg 
and some cream ; stir all together for a minute or two, and 
dish up. 



30. French Beans in Black Butter. 

When the beans are scalded, drain them well ; season 
them with salt and pepper, and having placed them in 
your dish, pour some black butter over them, and serve. 



£64 THE TIIO BOUGH GOOD CGOK. 

31. French Beans a la Francaise. 

Boil the beans in salt and water over a large tire, that 
they may retain their colour. Drain theni and lay them in 
a stew-pan on the fire, to dry up all the Avater. When entirely 
dr}^ and quite hot, add to them a quarter of a pound of 
fresh butter, a little pounded pepper and salt, and the juice 
of a lemon ; keep moving the stew-pan without using a spoon, 
as that would break the beans. Serve hot. 



32. "Steward's" French Beans (^ la Maitre d'Hotel). 

Prepare your beans for boiling ; put into a stew-pan 
a piece of butter, shredded parsley, and fresh onions ; when 
the butter is melted, add the French beans, previously 
boiled, turn them a few times over the fire, shake in some 
flour, and moisten with a little good stock, well seasoned. 
Boil till the sauce is consumed ; then put in the 3^olks 
of three eo'o-s, beaten ui) with some milk, and, lastly, add a 
little vinegar or verjuice. Cullis or veal gravy may be used 
instead of the eofes. 



33. French Beans, Brittany Fashion (a la Bretonne). 

Cut an onion or Uvo into dice, and put them with 
some butter into a saucepan over a stove ; when they 
begin to brown, add some Spanish sauce (p. 347), or a pinch 
of Hour ; as soon as the whole is sufficiently browned, moisten 
Avith a ladleful of good gravjs season with salt and whole 
pepper; reduce this sauce, and having boiled the beans, 
put them into it and simmer all together. 



VEGETABLES. 365 

34. Puree of French Beans. 

Take full-sized beans, string them ; put tlieni into boiling 
water, with a little salt, for a quarter of an hour ; strain 
and throw them into cold water to preserve their colour ; 
drain them a second time ; put a good piece of butter into 
a saucepan, with salt, pepper, a tablespoonfnl of Hour ; add 
the beans, and moisten them with broth; put in a bunch 
of parsley and chives ; let them simmer, and rub them 
through a sieve to make a puree ; warm this Avith a 
little butter, and serve. 



35. White Haricot Beans, Brittany Fashion (a la Bretonne). 

Take one quart of fresh-shelled beans, have also two 
quarts of boiling water, in which you have placed tAvo ounces 
of butter and a little salt ; put in your beans and boil 
them about half an hour or till tender, drain quite dry upon 
a sieve, then put them into another stew-pan with a quarter 
of a pound of butter and a little pepper and salt, " toss " them 
a few minutes over the fire, and when very hot turn them 
out upon your dish, and serve. 



36. Beans a la Foulette. 

First boil the beans, and then put them into a stew-pan 
with some butter, parsley chopped, green onions, mvl a little 
savoury ; shake them over the lire, add a little flour, a lump of 
sugar, and a little stock. When done, put in the yolks of 
three eggs, beaten up with a little milk. 



37. Baked Beans. 

Soak a quart of dried beans overnight in cold water : drain 
off the water in the morning, and stew them for half an hour 



366 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

in a little Avater; put them in a deep dish with one pound 
of salt pork ; cut the rind in stripes, and jilace in the centre 
of the dish. The pork should be sunk a little below the 
surface of the beans. Bake for three hours and a half 
A lump of saleratus should be thrown in while the beans 
are stewing, and a pint of water added when they are put 
into the baking-dish. 



38, Parsnips with Beans. 

Take two large parsnips, scrapie them clean, and boil 
them in water. When tender take them up, scrape all 
the soft into a saucepan, add to them four teaspoonfuls of 
cream, a piece of butter the size of a hen's egg, chop them 
Avell in a saucepan, and when they are quite thick, heap 
them up in the middle of the dish, with a ragout of French 
beans all round. 



39. Parsnip Fritters, 

Boil, peel, and grate to a pulp two parsnij^s ; beat it up 
with four yolks and two Avhites of eggs, two tablespoonfuls 
each of cream and white wine, with a little grated nutmeg. 
Beat the whole till the batter is very light, then fry it, and 
serve the fritters up with orange- or lemon-juice and sugar, 
or with melted butter, white wine, and sugar. 



40. Carrot Pie. 

Grate half a pound of the best part of a raw carrot 
and double the quantity of bread ; mix eight beaten yolks 
of eggs and four of the whites with half a pint of new 
milk, and melt half a pound of fresh butter with half a 



VEGETABLES. 367 

pint of white wine, three Large spoonfuls of orange-flower 
water, a o-rated nutnieof, and siio'ar. Stir it, and if too 
thick, add more milk. Lay a puff-paste over the dish, and 
bake it an hour. Serve it with grated sugar. This pie will 
be made more delicious by substituting Naples biscuits and 
cream for the bread and milk, and by adding a glass of 
ratafia to the orange-flower water. Some cooks boil the 
carrot, but thereby its saccharine virtue is lost. 



41. Marrow Fie. 

Grate as much bread as will fill a large breakfast-cup 
cpiite full. Put it into a jug and pour nearly a quart of 
boiling sweet milk or thin cream over it, and let it SAvell 
and soak Avhile you shred half a pound of marrow or suet, 
and beat up four lars^e or six small esrsfs. Have two ounces 
of raisins stoned, and two ounces of currants plumped. 
Sweeten the pudding to taste, and season it with a very 
little grated nutmeg and a teaspoonful of cinnamon in 
powder. Cover a stoneware flat dish on the edge with 
stri])es of puff-paste, and mark neatly as leaves. Bake the 
pie in this dish, or plainly in a deep dish. 



42. Pumpkin Fie. 

Take a rii:)e pumpkin, and chip off the rind or skin ; halve 
it, and take out the seed and puffy part in the centre, which 
throw awa}'. Cut the pumpkin into small, thin slices ; 
fill a pie-dish therewith ; add a teaspoonful of spice and 
a tablespoonful of sugar, Avith a small quantity of water. 
Cover with a nice light paste, and bake in the ordinary 
way. Pumpkin pie is greatly improved by being eaten with 



368 THE TIIOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

clotted cream and sugar. An equal quantity of apples Avill 
make it a still more delicious pie. 



43. Puree of Pumpkin. 

Cut a pumpkin into pieces, and l)oil it in salt and water ; 
tlirow away the water, and pass the pumpkin through a 
colander ; put into the saucepan a piece of butter, with a 
tablespoonful of flour : but do not let it brown ; add the 
puree, some pepper, and a little sugar, and boil five minutes ; 
beat it up with the yolks of two eggs, and a tablespoonful of 
cream, if you have any ; serve in a dish surrounded with fried 
crusts of bread. 



44. Vegetables iu a Mould. 

Line the inside of an oval mould with rashers of bacon ; 
then set upright alternately slips of cooked tvuiiip, carrots, 
celery, asparagus heads, and pickled cucumbers. Lay a 
forcemeat at the bottom of the mould and round the inside 
of the vegetables ; fill the centre with stewed beef tails with 
the bones taken out, or with small pieces of mutton or 
veal passed with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. 
Cover with ibrcemeat, wash over with Q^g, and bake. 
^Vhen it is to be served, turn it gently out of the mould 
upon a dish, take off the bacon, make a little hole at the 
top and pour in some good cullis. 



45. Vegetable Pie. 

Cut celery heads two inches long, tunaips and carrots 
into shapes, some peeled small onions, or two Spanish 



VEGETABLES. 369 

onions, artichoke bottoms cut into quarters, pieces of cauli- 
flower or heads of broccoH, heads of fine asparagus, and 
any other vegetable you may think proper. Wash all these 
thoroughly clean ; then boil each kind separately in just 
sufficient water to cover them, and as they get tender 
strain the liquor into one stew-pan and put the vegetables 
into another. Then add to the liquor half a pint of 
consomme (p. 77), thicken it Avith flour, and season it Avitli 
cayenne, salt, and lemon-juice ; boil it for ten minutes, 
strain it to the ves^etables, and let the whole simmer tooether. 
Serve in a raised pie-crust, or in a pie-dish Avith a raised 
crust baked round it. 



46. Stewed Feas. 

Three pints or two quarts of peas are sufficient for a 
second-course dish. Peas for stewing must be quite j'oung. 
Throw them into a large pan of cold water, with two 
cabbage lettuces cut up, and two ounces of fresh butter; 
work the peas and butter, etc., together ; take them out of the 
Avater and put them into a clean steAv-pan; tie up a bunch 
of green onions AA-ith a httle parsley and mint, and put with 
them ; cover the steAv-2Dan close, and about an hour before 
dinner set it over a stove, frequently giving the pan a 
toss lest any should stick to the bottom ; Avhen the peas 
are tender, and the juice nearly reduced, take out the 
bunch of onions, toss up the peas Avitli a little more 
butter, a little sugar and salt, and at last pour in a 
dessertspoonful of cold AA^ater, and dish them iunnediately. 
Flour in steAved peas, though many cooks use it, is not 
admissible, nor is it requisite if proper care and attention 
be paid at the moment they are served. 



370 THE THOEOUGH GOOD COOK. 

47. Asparagus, Italian Fashion. 

Tiike the asparagus, break the tops in pieces, then boil 
them soft, and drain the water from them; take a httle 
oil, water, and vinegar, let it boil ; season it with pepper 
and salt; throw in the asparagus, and thicken with the 
yolks of eggs. 



48. Forced Asparagus in French Rolls. 

Take out the crumb of three French rolls by first cutting- 
a piece of the top crust off, and be careful that the crust 
fits again the same place. Fry the rolls brown in fresh 
butter ; then take a pint of cream, the yolks of six eggs 
beaten fine, a little salt and nutmeg ; stir these Avell together 
over a slow fire till the mixture begins to thicken. Have 
prepared a hundred of small grass boiled, but save tops suffi- 
cient to stick in the rolls ; cut the remainder small and put 
into the cream, filling the loaves with them. Before frying 
the balls, make holes thick in the top crust, and stick in the 
tops you have reserved ; then lay on the piece of crust, and 
make the grass look as if growing. 



49. Asparagus in Croustade. 

Mix up the yolks of four eggs in some paste made of 
macai'oni flour, then form it into an under-crust, cut it into a 
band nineteen niches long and two inches and a quarter wide. 
With the cuttings of j^our paste form a circle ten inches in 
diameter, and around this put your band in form of a crous- 
tade, pinch up your paste into proper shape, and ornament 
it lightly round ; glaze it, and put it to dry in a slow oven. 
This done, take a fine head of asparagus and place it, standing 
upright-, in the middle of your croustade ; surround this with 



VEGETABLES. 371 

six more heads of asparagus nine inches in length, and en- 
circle these with twelve more eight inches in length. Add 
two more rounds of asparagus heads, the one six inches 
and the other hve inches in lenoth. 



50, Asparagus in Cream. 

Choose the finest asparagus, and dress it as usual ; parboil 
half a pint of cream and a little butter and flour, shake 
it about, and when the butter is melted, season moderately, 
and pour over the asparagus. 



51. Ragout of Asparagus. 

Take one hundred grass, scrape and clean them, and 
throw them into cold water ; cut them as far as they 
are good and green ; pick and wash clean and cut very 
small two heads of endive ; take also a young lettuce, 
clean washed and cut small, and a large onion, peeled and 
cut small. Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stew- 
pan, and when it is melted, throw in the above ingredients. 
Toss them about, and fry them ten minutes. Season them 
with a little pe^Dper and salt, shake in a little flour, again toss 
them about, and pour in half a pint of gravy. Let them 
stew till the sauce is very thick and good, and then pour 
all into your dish. You may make use of a few of the 
small tops of the grass for garnish. 



52. Articliokes k la St. Cloud, 

Trim and boil them till the chokes come out; then 
drain and let them cool; have ready as many small pigeons 
Y 2 



372 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

stewed and well-seasoned as you have artichokes, each of 
which must be stuffed with a pigeon ; dip them in good 
batter made of flour, eggs, a spoonful of oil, and a little 
salt ; fry in a very hot pan with plenty of dripping. 



53. Artichokes, Bordeaux Fashion. 

Trim your artichokes and blanch twenty minutes, place 
them in cold water, then scoop out the interior with the 
handle of a spoon, taking out every particle from the in- 
side, and have ready the following sauce : — Peel thirty large 
button onions and cut them in rings, put them in a stew- 
pan with a little oil, and fry of a light yellow colour; add 
half a pint of white sauce and two tablespoonfuls of bread- 
crumbs, mix well, then add eighteen stoned olives and 
the fillets of four anchovies well washed; stew until all 
is well cooked, then season with a little pepper, sugar, 
and a piece of scraped garlic the size of a pea. Pour 
this into the artichokes, and when done serve with a little 
white sauce in each. 



54. Artichoke Fie. 

Boil twelve artichokes, break off the chokes and leaves 
and take the bottoms clear from the stalks ; line the disli 
with puif-paste, and lay on this four ounces of fresh butter. 
Place a row of artichokes ; strew over them pepper, salt, 
and beaten mace ; then another layer of artichokes ; strew 
on more spice and a quarter of pound of butter cut 
in small pieces. Boil half an ounce of truffles and morels, 
chopped small, in a quarter of a pint of water, and pour 
into the pie, with a gill of white wine. Cover your pie 
and bake. 



VEGETABLES. 373 

55. Jerusalem Artichokes. 

Take about thirty of the best-shaped ones, as nearly 
as possible of the same size; turn them into the shape of 
pears, boil in salt and water, with Avhich you have put a 
quarter of a pound of butter; when tender, take them out, 
drain them upon a cloth, and dress in the form of a dome ; 
sauce over with melted butter or tomato-sauce. 



56. Grilled Mnshrooms. 

The mushrooms should have '■ broad-brimmed hats." 
Pluck out the stalks and fill the orifices with a well- 
seasoned veal stuffing, in which you have mixed the finely- 
minced stalks of the mushrooms. Spread your stuffing 
over the whole concavity or under part of your mushrooms. 
Wrap them in buttered writing-paper, and place them on a 
gridiron over a gentle fire. Take care that the paper does 
not catch. Eischt or ten minutes will suffice to cook them. 



57. Mushroom Pie, Russ Fashion. 

Get large and fleshy mushrooms ; trim their stalks away, 
as these are generally hard ; pare, and cut them in tAvo ; 
put the pieces in a frying-pan with butter or oil, season 
with salt and pepper, fty them on a brisk fire for a fcAv 
minutes only, diminishing their volume, and then take them 
off the fire. Spread the bottom of a pie-dish with a few 
slices of raw ham, whereon place the mushrooms by layers,, 
alternating with chopped onion, parsley, and a little fennel; 
press close together, mask the top with slices of ham, 
and then baste with two tablespoonfuls of broAvn sauce; 
cover the pie Avith short crust, and bake for one hour. 



374 THE TKOnOUGH GOOD COOK. 

58. Essence of Mushrooms. 

Pick some mushrooms, and put tliem into a bowl, sprink- 
ling them with fine salt; leave them till the next day. 
Press them to extract the moisture, and set them aside ; 
i:)ress them again, and even a third time. Make three 
kinds out of these three qualities, or mix them into one. 
Add pepper, spices, cloves, crushed into small pieces ; let it 
boil, and skim it till no more scum rises. Strain it, put 
it into bottles Avith two cloves and a peppercorn ; cork it 
up, and preserve it for use as required. 



59. Puree of Celery, 

Peel and wash some full-sized roots of celery ; let them 
boil, and make them into puree by passing through a 
colander. Put some fresh butter into a saucepan, and add 
the puree, with salt, a tablespoonful of Hour, some cream, 
or some beef broth and gravy, and a piece of sugar as large 
as a hazel nut ; then serve. 



60. Puree of Onions. 

Blanch onions in boiling-water, if you wish to take away 
their acridity, Avhich renders them indigestible and turns 
the cream Avitli which they are mixed ; peel and cut them 
asunder ; put them into a saucepan with a piece of fresh 
butter ; simmer gently, that the puree may preserve its 
whiteness. When the onions are tender, add some salt, 
a large spoonful of flour, and thin with cream. No broth 
is necessary. Put in a piece of sugar as large as a walnut. 
Strain, and serve Avith meat, etc. 



VEGETABLES. 375 

61. Salsafies with. Beef Marrow. 

Choose fifteen or twenty young salsafies — you can get them 
in Covent Garden — scrape the black skin, cut them into 
pieces three inches long ; rub each piece with lemon, and 
throw them into water. When very tender, dress them upon 
your dish, have four large pieces of beef marrow (well boiled 
in Avater), sauce over with a good half-glaze (No. 1), garnish 
with crusts of fried bread in the shape of hearts, and serve 
with a piece of marrow upon each. 



62. Indian Fagadu. 

Clean and wash a quantity of spinach; put it into a 
saucepan without any water, with the meat of a lobster, or 
«a pint of shrimps, picked from the shells and cut small, 
an onion and a clove of garlic minced fine, some salt, a 
few chillies or cayenne ; when nearly done, add some onions 
sliced and fried brown; cover the stew-pan close for a short 
time, then keep stirring the contents till they become quite 
dry ; sour with lemon-juice. 

63. Gumbo. 

Two quarts of fresh ochras, the same of ripe tomatoes, 
scalded and peeled ; put them into a pan to melt with butter, 
pepper, and salt ; strain through the colander, and dish the 
gumbo to eat with toast. May be made either meagre or 
with a veal stock. 



376 THE THOBOUGE GOOD COOK. 

64. Fricassee of Beetroot. 

After boiling the beetroot in salt and water, put some 
slices into a saucepan with some butter, parsley, chives, or 
sweet leeks, chopped, a little garlic, a pinch of flour, salt, 
pepper, and vinegar to taste ; let the whole boil a quarter of 
anjiour. 



377 



SECTION X.— SALADS. 



1. Partridge Salad. 

Boil eiolit eos^s liard, shell them, throw them into cold 
water; cut a thm slice oft" the bottom to facilitate the 
proper placing of them in the dish ; cut each one into 
four, lengthwise ; make a very thin, flat border of butter 
about one inch from the edge of the dish you are going 
to serve them on ; fix the pieces of egg uj^right, close to 
each other, the yolk outside, or alternately the white and 
3'olk ; place in the centre a layer of fresh salad that 
may be in season, and having previously roasted a .young 
partridge rather underdone, which you cut into eight or 
ten pieces, 3'ou prepare sauce as follows : — Put a table- 
spoonful of shallots, finely chopped, in a basin, one ditto 
of pounded sugar, the yolk of an egg, a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, tarragon, or chervil, and a quarter of an 
ounce of salt ; mix in by degrees, with a wooden spoon, 
four spoonfuls of oil and two of Chili vinegar; when all 
is mixed, put it on ice or in a cold place ; when ready 
to serve up, Avhip a gill of cream rather thick, lightly mix 
this with it, lay the inferior parts of the partridge on the 
salad, sauce over so as to cover each piece, then lay over 
the salad and the remainder of the partridge ; again sauce 
over, and serve. 



2. Grouse Salad. 

Roast your grouse, and with the trimmings prepare a 
salmi sauce (for which a recipe is given on p. 277) ; reduce this 



378 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

stiffly, and having mixed in a third portion of aspic jelly, 
use it to mask the joints of grouse with a rather thick 
coating of the sauce, and set them upon a dish on rough 
ice to set firm. Place a thick bed of seasoned shredded lettuce 
on the centre of the dish, and upon this foundation build 
up Jthe joints of grouse; garnish round the base with a border 
of curled celery, and an outer border of quarters of hard- 
boiled eggs. Pour some white mayonnaise sauce round 
between the bottom parts of the joints of grouse and the 
celery, place an ornament of aspic jelly on the top, and 
serve. 



3. Chicken Salad. 

This is justly claimed as an American delicacy, and is 
best made in the State of Massachusetts, Avhere there arc 
certain negro " caterers " who have acquired ftime and 
fortune by their dexterity in prej)aring and mixing the 
dish. In reality, it is as simple as it is succulent, being 
merely a salad of such herbs as are in season, moistened 
with a mayonnaise sauce, and made substantial by the 
addition of pieces of cold boiled chicken. 

Take a young, tender chicken of not more than two and 
a half pounds ; boil in stock for one hour ; when cooked 
let it get thoroug^y cold. Bone your chicken, cut it up 
into small pieces, put it into a deep dish, season Avith a 
pinch of salt, half as much pepper, one tablespoonful of 
vinegar, and six leaves of chopped lettuce, Avitli a few 
leaves of the white celery cut up. Mix carefully, lightly, 
and thoroughly. Place your mixture in a salad-bowl and 
cover with half a table-cupful of mayonnaise. Decorate 
the top Avith hard-boiled eggs cut in rings, capers, stoned 
olives, and, if you choose, " thread " anchovies. As for the 
mayonnaise, it is tartar sauce {p. 348) made of yolks of 



SALADS. 379 

liard-boiled eggs, oil, mustard, etc., stirred with a wooden 
spoon, and with the oil added drop by drop, but without 
the chopped herbs. It should be a golden 3^ellow in hue 
whereas tartar should be a lisrht Qreenish cream colour. 



4. Salad of Salmon. 

Put a glass of white wine into a stew-pan with some 
thin slices of onion, carrots, mushrooms, a bunch of mixed 
herbs, salt, pepper, and spice ; scale the salmon, cut the 
slices as thin as a crown piece, and set them round the dish ; 
garnish with a string of lettuce hearts, hard-boiled eggs, 
slices of boiled carrots and gherkins, slices of anchovy 
and capers. Make a cold ravigote (p. 342), and pour it 
over the whole. 



5. Salad of Smelts. 

Take half a hundred of smelts, the biggest you can get 
draw them and cut off their heads, put them into a pipkin 
with a pint of white wine and a pint of vinegar, an 
onion shredded, a couple of lemons, a race of ginger, three or 
four blades of mace, a nutmeg sliced, whole pepper, a little 
salt ; cover them, and let them stand %venty-four hours ; 
if you keep them three or four days, let not your pickle 
be too strong of the vinegar. When you serve them, take 
them out one by one, scrape and open them as you do 
anchovies, but throw away the bones, lay them close one 
by one round a silver dish (electro Avill do) ; mix together 
the outermost rind of a lemon or orange (as small as 
grated bread) and parsley, with a little hue beaten pepper, 
and strew this upon the dish of smelts with the meat of a 
lemon minced very small, then pour on salad-oil, and wring 



380 THE THOBOTJGH GOOD COOK. 

in the juice of two lemons, but be sure none of the lemon- 
seed is left in the salad. 

A veiy ancient recipe. Indeed, some of our very best 
culinary foi-mulas are hundreds of years old. Give salads of 
smelts a trial. You will not reo^ret it. 



6. Herring Salad. 

Ingredients: Four or six salted herrings that have been 
steeped in cold water to draw out some of the salt ; a 
little cold meat — veal, mutton, or beef; three eggs boiled 
hard, some boiled potatoes, tAvo apples, some pickled 
cucumbers and small pickled onions, sugar, pepj)er, vinegar, 
and cream. Take the herring from the bones, mince it, 
and lay it aside. Take the cold meat, as well as a little 
beetroot, potato, apple, and cucumber (all this together 
should not be more than the herring alone, so you must 
judge your quantities accordingly), add it to the herring. 
Put a little cream, sugar, vinegar, and pejjper in a cup 
together, mix, and then add them to the meat, herring, 
etc. All should be of the consistency of a paste, Avhich 
lay smoothly on a Hat dish and cover wdth minced beet- 
root. The whites and yolks of the eggs mince separatel}', 
and garnish the dish Avith them, some in the middle and 
some as a border all round. Outside of this border is 
laid a fringe of small pickled onions. The salad is served 
with a sauce made of cream, vinegar, mustard, and sugar, 
or with oil, vinegar, and pej)per. 



7. Potato Salad. 

For Potato Salad I have already given a recipe in m}^ 
chat on German Cookery (p. 15). 



381 



SECTION XI. — HORS - D'CEUVRES 
AND SAVOUBY DISHES. 



1. Anchovies, Norwegian Fashion. 

Scrape, wipe, and bone twelve or more Norwegian an- 
chovies ; trim the tillets neatly ; have ready two hard-boiled 
eggs, chop the whites and yolks separately, cover the bottom 
of one or two small round glass dishes with a laj'er of 
the chopped egg, forming a neat design ; sprinkle and season 
with a little chopped parsley, chervil, a little sweet oil and 
vinegar, and a pinch of cayenne pej^per. Place the anchovy 
fillets over the top in the shape of lattice-work, ornament 
with fancifully cut slices of lemon and hard-boiled egg 
round the sides, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, 
and serve. 



2. Anchovy Canapes. 

Procure a number of farthing rolls (any baker will make 
them to order). Cut these rolls into equal halves, scoop 
out all the crumb, and place the crust to dry in the screen. 
Meanwhile, cIiojd tine hard-boiled eggs sufficient for the number 
of canapes to be filled ; chop also some tarragon, chervil 
and chives ; and prepare some fillets or strippets of cleaned 
anchovies. Put the chopped eggs and herbs into a basin, 
season with salad oil and tarragon vinegar, pepper and 
salt ; mix together, and with this fill up the prepared 
crusts; ornament them by placing the fillets of anchovies 
over their surface in the fashion of lattice-work ; dish up 
the canapes on a napkin. 



382 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

3. Tunny. 

This is a fish caught only in the Mediterranean, and 
it comes to this country preserved in oil ; its flesh somewhat 
resembles veal, and jDossesses a full sweet flavour — something 
between the flavour of game and salmon. Tunny is served 
cut in thin slices and dished up in rows, surrounded with 
chcTpped j^arsley and capers, and a little salad oil. It is a 
capital hors-d'oeuvre, to be eaten before your soup ; and is 
procurable at most Italian warehouses in the metropolis. 



4. Sardines a la Royale. 

Take some sardines, remove the outer skins with a sharp 
pointed knife, and cut out the bones. Close the fillets up, 
and take some crisp leaves of chervil ; place them both 
on a glass dish, and garnish with strijis of gherkin and 
hard-boiled CQ-cr. 



5. Sardines a la Froven9ale. 

Cut some neat fingers of toasted bread, large enough to 
hold a sardine, butter them slightly, wipe as many sardines as 
may be required, put one on each finger of toast, dish them 
up on a round dish in the form of a lattice- work, keep the 
dish in a hot oven long enough to get the sardines thoroughly 
hot. Have ready a sauce made as follows : — Put three well- 
beaten eggs into a small saucepan, add a pat of butter, a 
tablespoonful of cream, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and 
a tablespoonful of finely-chopped boiled onions ; season with 
pepper and salt ; stir over a fire until it thickens, pour 
quickly over the dish of prepared sardines, sprinkle with 



HOBH-UCEUVBES AND SAVOUBY DISHES. 383 

a few drops of dissolved meat-glaze, dust with a pinch of 
caj'cnne pepper, and serve. 



6. Crusts of Sardines. 

Make croutons of toast by frying them in oil ; then 
prepare the sardines and place them on the toast, sprinkle 
cayenne pepper on them, bake in the oven till very hot, 
and serve. 



7. Herring Boes on Toast. 

Grill your herrings, take the roes out and break them 
uj), adding pep])er and salt to taste, and spread this mixture 
on neat little pieces of hot buttered toast. Serve as a 
savoury. 



8. Canapes ^ la Turbigo. 

Procure five small round dinner rolls (farthing rolls), cut 
each in equal halves, scoop out the crumb, and set them to 
dry. Mince coarsely about twenty prawns, together with 
the white part of a small head of celery, a tablespoonful 
of mixed pickles, and two small truffles ; season this mix- 
ture with some stiff mayonnaise sauce, into which a little 
parsley, fennel leaves, tarragon leaves, and a small shallot (all 
finely-chopped) have been introduced ; stir gently, and add 
a dessertspoonful of tomato puree and a teaspoonful of 
prepared mustard. Put this mixture into the prepared rolls, 
finishing with a layer of aspic or savoury jelly on each, and 
garnishing the surfiice with strips of hard-boiled white of egg, 
strips of truffles, and parsley. Serve on small round dishes. 



384 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

9. Italian Sansage. 

Mince two pounds of lean pork Avitli one pound of fat 
pork. Season the mixture with salt, mixed spice, coriander- 
seed, and bruised aniseed. When the ingredients are 
thoroughly blended, moisten the mixture with pig's blood 
and white wine sufficiently to bind it together, but be careful 
not" to render it too moist. Cut some narrow strips from 
the best part of a calf's head, mix these Avith the mince, 
and put the preparation into sausage-skins. Tie the ends 
securely, plunge the sausages into boiling water, and boil 
them gently until done enough. Afterwards dry them in 
a smoke-house, or in a chimney over a wood lire, till they 
become hard. Time to boil, half an hour. 



10. Tranches Viennoises a la Tomate. 

Cut some small slices of stale brown bread about 
an inch and a half square, stamp these out with a neat 
shape by means of a round fancy cutter. Next pound in 
a mortar the following ingredients : — Two ounces of cooked 
white meat (veal, chicken, or rabbit), two yolks of eggs, 
one ounce of fresh butter, a little each of chopped parsley, 
tarragon, and chervil, and one tablespoonful of Bechamel 
sauce; season to taste, work well, and pass all through a 
wire-sieve. Spread the round shces of bread thinly with 
butter, cover the surface of each with a thin layer of the 
prepared paste, on this lay a thin slice of cooked ox-tongue, 
cut a trifle smaller than the bread with a similar-shaped 
cutter ; on the tongue place a slice of fresh tomato not 
larger than the tongue slices. Sprinkle the slices with salt 
and pepper, work up the remainder of the sauce with a 
tablespoonful of very stiff" tomato sauce, put it in a small 



HOBS-D'CEUVBES AXD SAVOURY DISHES. 385 

paper forcing-bag, ornament each slice to taste, decorate 
with tarragon leaves and parsley. 



11. Spanish Crusts (Croutons a I'Espagnole). 

Stamp out eighteen round slices of white bread about 
an inch and a half in diameter and one-eighth of an inch 
thick. Fry these in clarified butter, and drain them on a 
cloth. Stone the same number of large Spanish olives by 
means of a sharp column-cutter (tube-cutter), fill them with 
stiff Tartar sauce, put a little of the sauce in the centre 
of each crouton, place an olive on each of them, curl an 
anchovy fillet round each olive, garnish the sides with finely- 
chopped hard-boiled egg, lobster coral, and sjjrigs of parsley. 
Keej) in a cool place until required for the table. 



12. Bonne Bouches. 

Take about half a pound of any kind of game — say the 
flesh of a grouse, partridge, hare, Avoodcock, or snipe, etc. ; 
cut this up in small squares, and fry it with an ounce of 
butter, a little ham, chopped truffles, mushrooms, parsley, 
and shallot ; season with nutmeg, pepper, and salt ; and 
when done brown, pound thoroughly in the mortar with a 
tablespoonful of sauce ; rub it through a wire-sieve, and 
place in a small stew-pan the game puree thus produced ; 
add the yolks of four eggs, and the four whites whisked 
into a substantial froth ; mix lightly, and with this pre- 
paration fill a dozen or more paper cases. Egg over the 
tops with a paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg, 
put them in a moderately -heated oven to bake for about 
twelve minutes, and as soon as done, dish up the bonne 
bouches on a napkin, and serve immediately. 
z 



386 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

13. Little Crusts of Caviare (Petites Croiites de Caviar). 

Cut out eight round or square pieces of bread about an 
inch in diameter and three-quarters of an inch thick. Scoop 
out the centre a Httle ; fry them in clarified butter, and drain 
on a cloth. Mix carefully with a wooden spoon two ounces 
of„Hygienic Caviare with a teaspoonful of finely-chopped 
shallots, a squeeze of lemon, and a pinch of cayenne 
pepper. When the croutes are perfectly cold, fill into the 
hollow parts the caviare thus prepared, dish up on dish- 
paper or folded table-napkin, and garnish with sprigs of 
parsley. 

Be careful never to touch caviare with any kind of 
metal utensils, as it injures the flavour. Hygienic Caviare 
is slightly pressed, containing less oil and less salt than 
the caviare in general use. 



14. Croquettes of Macaroni. 

Stir half a pint of any kind of good sauce over the 
fire until reduced to half its original quantity ; then add 
the yolks of three eggs, nutmeg, pepper, a pinch of 
chopped shallot, a pinch of sugar, and the juice of half a 
lemon ; stir this again over the fire to set the eggs in the 
sauce, and then add the following ingredients, mixed small 
and neatly: — A handful of boiled Genoa macaroni, two 
ounces of roast game, one ounce of lean ham, truffles, 
mushrooms ; incorporate these with the sauce, and when 
set cold and firm, divide the preparation into equal small 
portions ; mould these in the form of eggs ; egg-and-bread- 
crumb, and fry them in hot lard, and, being dished up 
with fried parsley, serve hot. 



H0R8-D'(EUVBES AXD SAVOURY DISHES. 387 

15. Curled Butter. 

To an iron hook in the wall tie two corners of a 
strong napkin, make a knot with the other two ends, so 
as to be able to pass a stick through it ; put into this 
napkin half a jDound of butter, and twist it tightly over a 
dish into which the butter will fall in small and pretty 
strings. To serve as a hors-d'oeuvre. 



16. Hazel-Nut Butter. 

Knead some butter with parsley, chives, tarragon, 
chopped small, and some hazel-nuts reduced to a paste in 
a mortar. This forms a very delicate hors-d'oeuvre. 



17. Devilled Biscuits. 

Butter biscuits on both sides, sprinkle cayenne pepper on 
the top, and send them to be grilled. This may be varied by 
the addition of chopped anchovies or curry paste. 



18. Iiaugtry Sandwiches. 

Cut up chicken and cooked ham in the form of small 
squares and dice, in the proportion of two-thirds of chicken to 
one-third of ham. Stir two tablespoonfuls of sauce with 
one of Crosse and Blackwell's curry paste in a stew-pan, 
and when it boils, add the chicken and ham ; mix, and 
Avith this preparation make the sandwiches in the manner 
following : — Cut some thin slices of stale bread-crumb, stamp 
out these with a plain round tin cutter the size of a 
crown piece, and fry them with clarified butter of a light 
golden brown ; between two of these crusts place a thick 
z 2 



388 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

layer of the preparation, and as tliis is done arrange them 
in order on a baking sheet ; then put upon the tops a ball — 
the size of a small Avalnut — composed of grated Parmesan 
cheese and butter in equal parts, and kneaded into a j^aste ; 
put into a brisk oven for five minutes, and dish up on a 
napkin in pyramid shape. 



19. Small Game Souffles (Petits Souffles de Gibier). 

Take some cold game, remove all the meat from the bones 
and skin ; put it in a mortar and pound with a small handful 
of cooked rice, a small piece of fresh butter, and a little 
rich brown sauce, with dissolved meat glaze to moisten. 
Season with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, powdered sweet 
herbs ; bind with one or two yolks of raw eggs. Rub all 
through a sieve ; mix in gently the whites of two eggs 
whipped to a stiff" foam. Put the mixture into small, well- 
greased timbale moulds, and bake in a quick oven ; turn 
out on a dish. Sauce round with salmi (p. 277) or poivrade 
(p. 330), sprinkle with parsley, and serve. 



389 



SECTION XII.— EGGS. 



1. Eggs and Broccoli. 

When you boil your broccoli, which will be cooked 
enough as soon as it is tender, save a large bunch for the 
middle and six or eight little sprigs to stick round. 
Toast a bit of bread, of what size you please, but pro- 
portion it to the size of your dish. Take as many eggs 
as you have occasion for, beat them well, and put them 
into a saucepan with a good piece of butter and a little 
salt. Keep beating them with a spoon till they are thick 
enough, and then pour them on the toast. Set the largest 
bunch of broccoli in the middle and the other little pieces 
round them, and garnish the dish with sprigs of broccoli. 



2. Curried Eggs, Bengal Fashion. 

Peel three onions, cut them in very thin slices, and put 
them into a stew-pan Avith two ounces of fat or butter, 
two ounces of chopped bay-leaves, and a sprig of chopped 
thyme ; fry these all together for about fifteen minutes till 
of a nice golden brown ; then lightly sprinkle in a tablespoon- 
ful of fine flour, add a teaspoonful of cardamoms, one small 
scraped clove of garlic, a saltspoonful of ground allspice, 
curry powder, and salt, a pinch of ground ginger, three- 
quarters of a pint of any light stock or milk, and boil all 
together till the mixture is almost dry. Add to it twelve 



390 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

sliced hard-boiled eggs, then serve on a hot dish in a border 
of plainl_y boiled rice, garnished with little bunches of hard- 
boiled yolk of eggs that have been rubbed through a wire- 
sieve, and shredded green capsicums. 



3. Eggs with Burnt Butter. 

Put into a frying-pan two ounces of butter, which melt ; 
as soon as it is on the point of browning, put in the eggs, 
which have been previously broken in a basin and seasoned 
with pepper and salt ; when well set, serve, with a tea- 
spoonful of vinegar over the eggs. 



4. Randalled Bggs. 

Twelve eggs boiled hard and halved; cut a j)iece from 
the ends of half of them to allow them to stand ; take out 
the yolks, chop them, mix with them chopped boiled ham 
or tongue, seasoned with nutmeg and mace and moistened 
with butter, and introduce this into the egg. Put the halves 
together, and stand the joined eggs on end in the dish. 



5. Bggs a la Tripe. 

Take some eggs that have been boiled for seven minutes, 
and shell and slice them. Butter the dish in which they 
are to be served, place a thin layer of creamy Bechamel 
sauce on the bottom, and on this place a layer of the sliced 
eggs, sprinkling lightly with a little finely-chopped shallot 
and fresh parsley ; add another layer of the sauce, and 
then the eggs as before, and continue in like manner until 



EGGS. 391 

the dish is nearly full. Let the sauce be on the top, and 
sprinlde over this a few browned bread-crumbs and about 
half an ounce of butter broken in tiny pieces; set the 
dish in a tin containino' boilino- water, and stand in a hot 
oven for about fifteen or twenty minutes ; then take up, 
remove the dish from the tin, and sprinkle the top over 
with the hard-boiled yolk of egg (that has been passed 
through a fine sieve) and a little chopped parsley. 



6. Eggs Brouilles. 

Break four or six eggs ; beat them and put them into 
a saucepan with a piece of butter, a little salt, and a spoon- 
ful of gravy, which will make them softer: stir them over 
the fire until sufficiently thick ; serve on a plate garnished 
with toasted bread. To eggs dressed in this way truffles, 
ham, mushrooms, etc., minced, may be added. In Ireland, 
where the dish is in general use, the eggs are usually 
served upon hot buttered toast, and are there called 
" buttered eggs." It is also very common in France, where 
it is generally served for breakfast. 



7. Eggs Fricasseed. 

Boil your eggs pretty hard, slice them : then take a little 
veal gravy, a little cream and flour, and a bit of butter, 
nutmeg, salt, pepper, chopped jjarsley, and a few pickled 
mushrooms. iBoil this up and pour it over the eggs. Put 
a hard yolk in the middle of the dish, with toasted sippets. 



392 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

8. Eggs Hashed. 

Boil eggs hard, slice tliein, fry an onion, sliced in butter : 
put in tlie eggs, a little good gravy, chopped parsley, pepper, 
and salt. Serve them hot. 



9. Eggs Frothed. 

Beat uj) the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four (set 
aside the remaining "whites) with a dessertspoonful of water, 
some salt, sugar, and the juice of a lemon ; fry this, and then 
put it on a dish ; whip the whites to a froth with sugar, and 
place it over the yolks ; bake in a Dutch oven. 



10. Eggs in Cases. 

Cut up a sheet of paper into pieces three inches square, 
turn up half an inch all round so as to form a kind of square 
case : there will then remain but two inches square in the 
inside. Take a small piece of butter, a pinch of fine bread- 
crumbs, a little finely- chopped parsley, spring onions, salt 
and pepper, and mix them together ; put a little into each 
case, then break one egg into each; put them on a grid- 
iron, over a slow tire, and do them gently, or place them 
in a dish in an oven : when well set, serve. Small, round 
paper cases may be procured very cheap. 



11. Eggs with Black Butter. 

Put one ounce of butter in a frying-pan on the fire or 
the gas stove ; let it heat well, but not become too brown ; 
break carefully into a dish six very fresh eggs ; slide carefully 
into the pan, with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of 
white pepper ; cook slowly for three minutes. Slide the eggs 



EGGS. 393 



into a hot Hat dish ; deal with them gently, without turning 
them over or breaking them. Then put two more ounces 
of butter into the same pan ; place it on the fire or gas- 
stove, and let the butter get a good rich, Vandyke brown 
colour for three minutes, dropping in two teaspoonfuls of 



tarragon vmeo^ar. 



Remember that this black butter is an admirable sauce, 
not only for eggs but for all white fish, especially for 
skate. Do you call this a costly sauce ? 



^^ 12. Gratin of Eggs with Cheese. 

Take some grated bread, Parmesan cheese, also grated, 
a small piece of butter, the yolks of two eggs, nutmeg and 
pepper ; mix these together, and spread them over the bottom 
of the dish; set it over a gentle fire to make a gratin, oil 
which break ten eggs ; sprinkle Parmesan cheese over the 
surface, finish cooking it, and brown it with a salamander. 



13. Eggs, Piedmont Fashion (a la Fiemontaise). 

Put a couple of anchovies and a little gravy into a 
saucepan, and wdien they are dissolved, add the yolks of eight 
and the whites of two eggs (well beaten) ; season them with 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg; beat them w^ell whilst they are 
doing. Serve them with fried bread, grate Parmesan cheese 
over, and brown it with a salamander. 



14. Hen's Nest Eggs. 

Boil six or eight eggs quite hard ; when cold and firm, 
cut the whites from the yolks in long thin slips; set them 



394 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

aside to warm in a slow oven, taking care every now and 
then to liberally butter them. Poimd up in a mortar any 
cold chicken or remains of mix fish ; with this the yolks 
of the eggs, a little parsley, and pepper and salt to your 
taste. When you have reduced all to a fine smooth paste, 
mould it with your hands into egg-shaped balls. Heap these 
in the centre of a dish, arrange the shredded e^^ around 
them in imitation of a nest ; put back into the oven for a 
few minutes to warm, and just before serving pour over a 
hot rich broAvn sauce. 



15. Ragout of Eggs and Mushrooms. 

Take some large [nuishrooms, peel them and scrape them 
clean, put them in a saucepan with a little salt, cover them, 
and let them boil a little, then put in a gill of milk, an 
ounce of butter rolled in flour, seasoned with mace and 
nutn^esf ; boil the whole till it is of a ooocl consistence. Have 
ready six hard-boiled eggs, take out the yolks whole. Put 
some toasted sippets in a dish, and the yolks upon them; 
then pour over them the whole of your ragoiit. 



16. Eggs with. Onions and Mushrooms. 

When 3^ou have boiled the eggs hard, take out the 
yolks whole, and cut the whites in slips, with some onions 
and mushrooms. Fry the onions and mushrooms, then 
add the whites, turn them about a little, dredge them 
with flour, and add a^ little mushroom catsup. Boil this up, 
then put in the yolks, and add pepper and salt. Let the 
whole sinuner for about a minute, then serve it up. 



EGGS\ 395 

17. Plovers' Eggs in Aspic. 

When the eggs are boiled, take off the shells, and cut 
off a small slice at the broad end of the eggs, that they msij 
stand upright ; have some aspic jelly that is very firm, turn 
it out on a marble slab, and cut it in half-diamond shapes 
or rings, and place these round the dish you intend to 
serve the eggs on ; put chopped aspic in the centre, and 
the eggs on the top. Plovers' eggs may also be served in 
a mould of aspic jelly, garnished with truffles and white 
of eggs. 



18. "Surprise" Eggs. 

When I was young culinary " surprises " were common : 
at present one scarcely ever meets Avith one ; which fact 
induces in my mind the conclusion that the England of 
sixty 3^ears ago was a much merrier England than the ex- 
isting prim, overdressed, Mrs. Grundy-ridden country of my 
birth. At all events, the culinary " surprises " were as 
innocent as they were clever. They made us laugh ; and 
every wise doctor will tell you that laughter helps digestion. 
Good digestion means happiness and virtue. One-third of 
the crime in this world springs from congenital causes : 
the sins of the fathers are literally visited on the children. 
Another third is due to the direct, although inscrutable, 
instrumentality of the Devil. For the rest indigestion is 
mainly responsible. Indigestion had quite as much to do 
as had Madame de Maintenon in inducing the superstitious 
glutton, Louis XIV., to revoke the Edict of Nantes. The 
digestion of Napoleon the Great was normally deplorable; 
and I should not be in the least astonished if indigestion 
were, an fond, the cause of the murder of the Due d'Enghien, 
Thackeray told me that he was suffering from an atrocious 
attack of indigestion when he wrote that bullymg letter to 



396 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

Edmund Yates which eventuated in the expulsion of the 
latter from the Garrick Club — a social slur which he never 
got over : and whenever Edmund, whom I knew for thirty 
years, and who was the warmest-hearted and most can- 
tankerous of mankind, used to sneer at or " pitch into " me 
in the World, I always set down his abuse to the account of 
indigestion. 

Now, after this long preamble, for " surprise eggs." Poach 
your eggs and trim the edges neatly. Let them remain for 
a quarter of an hour in the pan, with lemon-juice, pepper, 
salt, and a little chopped parsley. . Then fry them in batter 
precisely as though they were fritters, and serve hot on a 
napkin garnished with parsley. 



397 



Section XIII.— CHEESE, 



1. Cheese, Toasted. 

Slice some good rich cheese. Put it in a cheese-toaster 
on a hot plate, and when it is melted, stir into it some made 
mustard and pepper. A little beer is sometimes added, 
and if the cheese is at all dry, a little butter should be also 
used. Toast should be served with it. This dish is worth 
nothing at all unless it can be served quite hot. Toasted 
cheese is sometimes sent to table in little tins with boiling 
water underneath, and this is an excellent way to keep 
the toast hot. A few minutes will be sufficient to melt the 
cheese. 



2. Stewed Cheese. 

Cut small into a stew-pan Cheshire and Gloucester cheese, 
a quarter of a pound of each ; then add a gill of Lisbon wine, 
a tablespoonful of water, and (if approved) a teaspoonful of 
mustard. Mix them over a fire till the cheese is dissolved; 
then have ready a cheese-plate with a lighted lamp beneath, 
put the mixture in, and serve it up directly. Send it with 
some fresh-toasted bread in a toast-rack. 



3. Welsh Rarebit. 

Take half a pound of Dunlop or Gloucester cheese, cut 
off' the skin; put in a small frying-pan half a teacupful 



398 THE THOEOUGH GOOD COOK. 

of strong ale, and when it boils put in the cheese; let 
boil for a minute or two ; then stir in a teaspoonful 
of mustard; when the whole becomes a liquid, toast a 
thick slice of bread, cut off the crust, butter it well and 
set it before the tire to keep hot. When it is wanted, 
have a dish and cover very hot, put the cheese on the 
toTist, and send to table immediately. 



4. Potted Cheese. 

Add to a pound of grated Parmesan or Cheshire cheese, 
in a mortar, three ounces of cold fresh butter, a little sifted 
mace, and a teaspoonful of mustard. Mix all well, put it 
into small pots, cover it with clarified butter, and set the 
pots in a cold, dry place. 



5. Auobher Potted Cheese. 

Scrape and pound cheese with a piece of butter, cayenne 
pepper, a i'ew grains of pounded mace, a teaspoonful of 
sifted sugar, a glass of white wine, and a little salt ; press 
it into your potting-jar for shape. It may be potted with 
brandy. 



6. Cheese a la Montmorency. 

Boil a pint of cream with two ounces of sugar ; M'hen it 
boils, take it off the lire and let it cool ; when cool, put in 
half a teaspoonful of orange-flower water. Whip the cream, 
and as the cream thickens take it off with a skinmicr and 
put it on a basket (with a fine cloth laid over it) ; continue 
to whip until there is no longer any cream remaining ; lot 
it drain, and serve it on a plate. 



CHEESE. 399 

7. Cheese as Iced Butter. 

Boil for a few minutes a pint of cream with rasped lemon- 
peel and a good teaspoonful of orange-flower water ; when 
taken off the fire, add a dozen yolks of eggs well beaten uj), 
and ndx together without boiling ; pass through a sieve and 
put into an icing-pot to freeze, working it in the same way as 
ices. It must be iced in such a manner that you may take 
it with a spoon to serve, like pats of butter stamped with bits 
of clear ice between to appear like crystals. 



8. Cheese Imps. 

Put a gill of milk into a stew-pan, with two ounces of 
butter; when boiling, stir in two spoonfuls of flour, and 
keep stirring over the fire until the bottom of the pan is 
dry, then add by degrees four eggs, half a pound of Gruyere 
and half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese ; mix weU in, 
season with pepper, salt, and cayenne rather highly; mould 
the paste into little balls with the forefinger against the 
side of the steAv-pan containing it ; drop them into hot 
lard ; fry of a nice light brown, dress in a pyramid upon 
a napkin, and serve very hot. Half of this quantity may, 
of course, be made. 



9. Cheese Straws. 

Mix two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, two ounces 
of fresh butter, two ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, 
and two ounces of flour, into a paste. Flavour the mixture 
with cayenne, salt, and a very little pounded mace. Roll 
this out rather thinly, cut it into fingers about four inches 
lonsf and half an inch wide, bake them for a few minutes 
in a quick oven, and serve cold. They should be piled 
on a dish in transverse rows. 



400 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

10. Macaroni and Cheese Croquettes. 

Put two quarts of water, with a little salt and a small 
piece of butter, into a stew-pan, and when boiling add half 
a pound of macaroni, which boil until tender, drain upon 
a sieve, and when cold cut into pieces a quarter of an 
inch in length, putting them into a stew-pan with half a pint 
of Bechamel (p. 327), a little cayenne pepper, salt, and grated 
nutmeg; let simmer a few minutes until rather thick, stir- 
ring it gently occasionally; then add half a pound of grated 
Parmesan and Gruyere cheese (or good common cheese 
may be used), turn gently a few minutes longer over the 
fire, take it off, stir in the yolks of four eggs quickly, stir 
another minute over the fire to set the eggs, and pour it out 
upon a dish. When it is quite cold, make it into shaped 
pieces rather larger than walnuts, or into pieces, in the form 
of pears, the thickness of your finger ; have three eggs 
Avell beaten up on a plate; into this dip the croquettes, 
roll them over, then throw them into a dish of bread- 
crumbs, pat them gently with your knife, dip again into 
Qgg and bread-crumbs, place them in a wire basket, and fry 
in very hot lard, 

11. Cheese Ramequins. 

Put in a stew-pan a gill of water, to which add two 
ounces of Gruyere and the same quantity of Parmesan 
cheese grated, two ounces of butter, a little ca3-cnne pepper, 
and salt if required ; set it upon the fire, and when boiling 
stir in two or three spoonfuls of flour ; keep stirring over 
the fire until the paste becomes dryish and the bottom of 
the stew-pan quite white, then add three or four eggs by 
degrees, until forming a paste ; butter a baking sheet well, 
and lay the paste out in pieces upon it with a table-spoon, 
making them long, and half the size of the bowl of the 
spoon; egg over, and lay a small piece of Gruyere upon 



CHEESE. 401 

eacli ; put them into tlie oven about twenty minutes before 
they are required; bake them a Kttle crisp, and serve very 
hot, dressed in a pyramid upon a napkin. 



12. Cheese and Eggs. 

Mix half a pint of cream with a httle flour and a little 
salt, keep stirring it over the fire until it is as thick as 
melted butter, then add about half a pound of Parmesan 
cheese, finely grated. Mix all well together until it is 
half cold, then take four eggs, separate the yolks from the 
whites, put the former to the cheese, and beat well 
together. Then beat the whites to a solid froth, and add 
this to the rest. Pour the whole into an ornamented mould 
or a deep dish lined with paper, cut in a fringe at the top 
and only half filled, as the mixture will rise very high. 
The oven must be very hot, in order to cause the rising, 
and the dish must be served immediately or it will go down, 
to prevent which let the cover be of metal strongly heated. 
Twenty minutes ought to bake it. 



13. Foudxie of Cheese. 

Take three ounces of flour, moisten with half a pint of cream 
and half a pint of milk, and a quarter of a pound of butter ; 
stir all these ingredients over a brisk fire till they become 
paste; remove it from the fire, and mix in eight yolks of 
eggs, a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan cheese, and 
a quarter of a pound of fine Gruyere cheese, cut into dice. 
When the dinner is called, whip the whites ; mix them in 
also, and bake the fondue in a tolerably quick oven. 

This same mixture answers for small fondues in paper 
cases. 

AA 



402 



SECTION XIV.— S^W^EETS. 



1. Almond Cheese Cakes. 

Blanch and pound a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds 
and eioflit bitter ones, with a wineo'lass of common or orano-e- 
flower water. Add four ounces of sugar, a c[uarter of a 
pint of cream, and the whites of two eggs beaten to a froth. 
Mix and fill small patty-pans. Or these almond cheese-cakes 
may be made by merely mixing a few beaten almonds with 
common cheese-cakes. 



2. Almond Paste. 

Blanch and pound one pound of Jordan almonds very 
fine; add a spoonful of water in the pounding to keep 
them from oiling, and three-quarters of a pound of fine 
sifted sugar ; stir all together over a gentle fire to dry off 
the moisture. As it leaves the pan and becomes a stiff 
paste put it in j)ots. 

06s. — You may add half an ounce of gum tragacanth, 
soaked in water, thick. 



3. Almond Pudding. 

Take a quarter of a pound of blanched Jordan almonds, 
pounded fine ; four whole eggs, the whites of two ; a pint 
of cream, and a quarter of a pound of butter melted in 
it; two ounces of flour, and the same quantity of sugar; 



SWEETS. 403 

mix these by degrees in the cream when cold ; bake in 
a dish Hned round with tart-paste. Two or three bitter 
almonds may be added to the others. 



4. Another Almond Pudding. 

Beat four ounces of sweet almonds with four or five 
bitter ones, a little Avhite Avine, the yollvs of six eggs, the 
peel of two lemons grated, six ounces of butter, about a 
quart of cream, and the juice of a lemon. Bake it half 
an hour, with paste round the dish. 

Yet Another Way. 

Pound eight ounces of almonds with a few bitter ones 
in a spoonful of w\ater, then mix with four ounces of 
butter warmed, the yolks of four and the whites of two 
eggs, sugar, two tablespoonfuls of cream and one of brandy. 
Bake in buttered cups, and serve with pudding sauce. 



5. Almond Wafers. 

Pound eight ounces of blanched Jordan almonds very 
fine, with two yolks of eggs; put to this a quarter of a 
pound of sugar, one lemon-peel, and half a nutmeg grated ; 
add two whole eggs and one ounce of flour : mix all well 
together, spread it thin on a copper-tinned plate rubbed with 
butter ; sprinkle fine chopped almonds over, and bake it 
quickly ; cut it in large squares while warm, turn each 
over a round piece of wood till cold and crisp. 



AA 2 



404 THE THOIiOUGH GOOD COOK. 

6. Amber Pudding. 

Lay a pound of fresh butter in a stew-pan, with three 
quarters of a pound of hun^) sugar finelj' pounded; melt 
the butter and mix the Avhole well; then add the yolks 
of fifteen eggs beaten, and as much candied peel as 
will give it a colour and flavour, first reducing it to paste. 
Line the dish with a fine crust, and cover it as you would 
a pie. Bake it in a slow oven. It is equally good cold 
or hot. 



7. Another Amber Pudding. 

Take one dozen cooking apples, a cupful of sugar, six 
eggs, four tablespoonfuls of butter, the rind and juice of 
two lemons, and sufficient puff-paste to line a dish. Pare and 
quarter the apples and pare the lemons, taking off the thin 
yelloAV rind only: the white would make the pudding bitter. 
Put this rind, with the apj)les, butter, and lemon-juice, into a 
stew-pan with half a cuj^ful of water. Cover and simmer 
for three-quarters of an hour; pass it through a sieve, add 
the sugar, and let it cool, and then stir in the yolks of the 
eggs well beaten ; put it all into a dish lined with a good 
but thin paste ; bake in a gentle oven for half an hour. 
AVhile it is cooking, whisk the whites of the eo-sfs to a stiff 
froth ; beat into them three tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar, cover the pudding with this; return to the oven for 
ten minutes, leaving the door open. This pudding may be 
served hot or cold. 



8. Angelica Tart. 

Pare and core some golden pippins or nonpareils ; then 
take an equal quantity of the stalks of angelica, peel them^ 
and cut them into small pieces. Boil the apples in water 
enough to cover them, Avith lemon-peel and fine sugar. 



SWEETS. 405 

Do them gently, till they produce a thin syrup, and then 
strain it off. Put it on the tire, together with the angelica, 
and let both boil ten minutes. Make a puff-paste, lay it 
at the bottom of the tin, then a layer of apple and one 
of angelica, till full. Pour in some syrup, put on the 
cover, and bake moderately. 



9. Apple Biscuits. 

Add to two pounds of apple pulp, two and three-quarter 
pounds of fine sugar, three whole eggs, and a portion of 
essence of cloves ; stir all well together in a pan over 
a moderate fire, adding three and a quarter pounds of flour 
and half a pound of corn starch in powder ; when the mixture 
is hot, lay it out with a large screw funnel, ice the biscuits, 
and bake them. 



10. Apple Charlotte. 

Stew a dozen apples ; butter a plain mould ; take a ncAv 
loaf, the crumb of which cut in thin slices about two inches 
broad and the depth of your mould, and cut two round 
pieces, one for the top and the other for the bottom of the 
mould. Then begin by dipping the round piece in good 
clarified butter, laying it at the bottom ; the thin slices place 
on the side, one against the other until they meet all round ; 
put your apples in the mould, cover the top well over with 
the other round piece, and bake for nearly an hour. A little 
lemon-juice may be added to the ap))les if liked. 



11. Apple Pudding. 

Pare, core, and stew the apples in a small stew-pan, with 
cinnamon, two or three cloves, and the grated rind of a 



406 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

lemon. When soft, sweeten tlieni to taste. Pulp tlieni 
through a sieve, and add the beaten yolks of four eggs, a 
quarter of a pound of butter, the grated peel and the 
juice of a lemon. Mix the ingredients well, and bake for 
half an hour in a dish lined with good puff-paste. 



12. Apple Pudding, Baked. 

Take one dozen large apples, and boil them as for 
sauce ; grate in four Naples biscuits and the rind of a 
lemon, squeezing in the juice ; add four eggs, Avith the 
whites, two ounces of butter, sweeten to taste, and bake 
with a thin puff'-paste at the bottom of the dish. 



13. Apricot Pudding. 

Mash six ripe apricots through a sieve ; add one pint 
of cream, four ounces of sugar, four yolks and two whole 
eggs, one ounce of butter, melted ; mix all together, bake 
in a dish lined Avitli puff-paste, and glaze the top. 

Ohs. — Apple, peach, and plum puddings are baked in 
the same way. 



14. Another Apricot Pudding, 

Pour a pint of hot cream over a cup of bread-crumbs, 
and cover the jug. When cold, add the beaten yolks of four 
eggs, a glass of white wine, and beat; sugar to taste. 
Scald a dozen large apricots till soft; cut them, take out 
the kernels, and pound the whole in a mortar. Mix 
them with the other ingredients, and the beaten whites 
of two of the eggs, and bake in a dish with a paste border. 



SWEETS. 407 

15. Bakewell Pudding. 

As may be gathered from the name, this dish hails from 
Derbyshire. First, Hne a pie-dish with a good and light paste; 
on this place a layer of any preserved fruit you may prefer 
—apricots are especially good — then on this spread, in the 
thinnest slices, some candied citron-peel. Make a custard 
with six eggs, omitting the whites of three, six ounces of 
sifted sugar, four ounces of clarified butter, and three spoon- 
fuls of lemon brandy — that is, brandy m which lemon-peel 
has been soaked, and mixed with lemon-juice. If other 
flavouring be preferred, mix that instead of lemon with the 
brandy. Pour the custard over the jam, and bake in a 
moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. 



16. Banbury Cake. 

Take a peck of pure wheat-Hour, six pounds of currants, 
hah' a pound of sugar, two pounds of butter, half an ounce 
of cloves and mace, a pint and a half of ale yeast, and a 
little rose-water; then boil as much new milk as will 
serve to knead it, and when it is almost cold, put into 
it as much sherry as will thicken it, and so work it alto- 
gether before a fire, pulling it two or three times in pieces; 
afterwards, make it up. 



17. Barley Pudding. 

Beat up the yolks of six eggs and the whites of three, 
and put them into a quart of cream. Sweeten, and add 
a little orange-flower or rose-water, with a pound of melted 
butter, and six handfuls of French barley that has been 
boiled tender in milk. Butter a dish, pour it in, and send 
it to the oven. 



408 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

18. Brown Bread Pudding. 

Half a pound of stale brown bread grated ; ditto of 
currants ; ditto of shredded suet ; sugar and nutmeg ; mix 
with four eggs, one tablespoonful of brandy and two of 
cream ; boil in a cloth or basm that exactly holds it for 
three or four hours. 



19. Bnns, Little. 

Beat six ounces of butter to cream. Add the yolks of 
six eggs, two ounces of butter, the grated peel of a lemon, 
an ounce of dried yeast mixed in a cup of warm milk, and 
a pound of flour, with enough sour cream to mix the whole 
into a dough of light bread consistence. Put little lumps 
the size of a walnut on a buttered tin, and set them to rise. 
When they are light, put in the centre of each an almond, 
a raisin, or a dot of dried fruit, brush them over with egg 
and sugar mixed, or with egg and coarsely-pounded sugar, 
and bake them in a quick oven ten or twenty minutes. 



20. Buttered Loaves. 

Take the yolks of twelve eggs and six whites, and a 
quarter of a pint of yeast ; when you have beaten the 
esfCTs well, strain them with the yeast into a dish, add 
a little salt, and two races of ginger beaten very small ; 
then put flour to it till it comes to a high paste that 
will not cleave; next you must roll it upon your hands, 
and afterwards put it into a warm cloth, and let it lie 
there a quarter of an hour ; then make it up in little 
loaves and bake it again ; against it is baked, prepare a 
pound and a half of butter, a quarter of a pint of white 



SWEETS. 409 



wine, and half a pound of sugar ; this being melted and 
beaten together with the loaves, return them to the oven 
for a quarter of an hour. 



21. Cake, Plain Fruit. 

One loaf of bread dough, half a cupful of butter, the 
same of sugar, a little syrup if liked, half a cupful of butter- 
milk, half of currants, one of raisins, three eggs, and some 
lemon-peel. Mix all well together, adding some spice to 
taste, and bake. 



22. Chantilly Basket. 

Stick ratafia biscuits round the dish, or make it over 
a mould, with caramel sugar ; have different sizes of biscuits, 
and ornament with comtits or dried fruits ; fill the inside 
with four sponge biscuits, six macaroons soaked in Avine ; 
pour over a custard, and fill up with syllabub cream. A 
" basket " may be made of almond paste, macaroons, or small 
almond biscuits, and served in the same wa}^ 



23. Cheese-Cakes. 

Put a spoonful of rennet into a quart of milk ; when 
turned, drain the curd through a coarse sieve, gently break 
the curd, and rub in a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter 
of a pound of sugar, nutmeg, and two Naples biscuits grated, 
the yolks of four eggs and the white of one, half an ounce 
of almonds, half bitter and half sweet, well beaten in a 
mortar, Avith two teaspoonfuls of rose Avater, four ounces 
of currants ; put in the curd, and mix together. 



410 THE TIIOBOUGII GOOD COOK. 

24. Cheese-Cakes, Lemon or Orange. 

Grate the rind of three lemons, and sijueeze their juice 
over three sponge biscuits soaked in a glass of cream. Add 
to this four ounces of fresh butter, four of fine sugar, and 
three eggs well beaten. Season with cinnamon and nutmeg. 
Mix all these ingredients thoroughly, and bake in small 
pans lined with a light thin paste. Lay a few long thin 
slices of candied lemon-peel uj)on the toj). 

Another ^Vay. 

Take a largo lemon or Seville orange, grate the rind, 
squeeze the juice, and sweeten to taste with ponnded lump 
sugar ; a c[uarter of a pound of clarified butter put in when 
the thickness of cream, five eggs — only three whites ; one 
tablespoonful of brandy ; mix well together ; have good 
puff-paste, and bake in patty-pans. 



25. Cheese Fritters. 

Put some milk, butter, mild Brie or Gruyere cheese, into 
a saucepan ; add to these ingredients flour, and afterwards 
eggs and sugar ; make them into a paste, of which form your 
fritters ; fry them of a nice colour, and serve them sprinkled 
with sugar. A small quantity of orange-floAver may be 
added. 



26. Chestnut Pudding. 

Put a dozen and a half of chestnuts in a saucejmn of 
water, boil them a quarter of an hour, then blanch and 
peel them, and beat them in a marble mortar, with a little 



SWEETS. 411 

rose-water and sherry, till they are a thin tine paste ; now 
beat up twelve eggs Avith half the Avhites, and mix them 
well ; grate half a nutmeg and a little salt, mix this Avith 
three pints of cream and half a pound of melted butter, 
sweeten to your palate and mix all together. When you can- 
not get cream, take three pints of milk, beat up the yolks 
of four eggs and stir into the milk ; set it over the lire, 
stirring: it all the time till it is scaldins: hot : then mix it 
in in the place of the cream. 

Another Waij. 

Put twelve ounces of chestnut farina mto a stew-pan, 
add six ounces of pounded sugar, a teaspoonful of vanilla 
sugar, a pinch of salt, four ounces of butter, and a pint of 
milk. Stir this over the fire until it thickens, and then 
quicken the motion of the spoon until the paste leaves the 
sides of the pan ; it must next be removed from the fire, 
and the yolks of six eggs incorporated therewith; now mix 
in gently the whites, whipped firm, and use this preparation 
to fill a mould spread inside with butter. Place this on a 
baking- sheet, and bake it in an oven of moderate heat for 
an hour or thereabouts. As soon as it done, turn it out 
on its dish, pour some diluted apricot jam round it, and 
serve. 



27. Chocolate Puffs. 

Beat and sift half a pound of double- refined sugar, scrape 
into it very fine an ounce of chocolate, and mix the two 
together. Beat up the white of an egg to a froth, and 
strew into it the sugar and chocolate. Keep beating it 
till it is as thick as paste, then sugar the paper, drop the 
putFs on about the size of a sixpence, and bake tlieni in a 
slow oven. 



412 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

28. Cocoa Biscidts. 

Pound up a pound and a half of sweet almonds and the 
same quantity of picked cocoas ; add two whites of eggs 
and six pounds of sugar in powder, with a small portion 
of vanilla: stir well. Manipulate, and form your paste 
with a cutter, and bake. You may make the biscuits shine 
by -touching them with cold water as you put them into 
the oven. 



29. Coffee Soufle. 

Mix ten ounces of sugar with six of flom* and two 
of butter, add half a pint of strong coffee and half a pint 
of cream, and a pinch of salt. Stir the whole briskly over 
the fire until it boils. When at boiling-point, work in the 
yolks of six eggs, and mix the whites of nine eggs, which 
have been previously whisked, and then turn the whole 
into a white soufHe-dish, and bake from half to three- 
quarters of an hour in a brisk oven. If not sufficiently 
browned by the baking, pass a salamander over the souffle 
just before sending to table. 



30. Compote of Stuffed Apples. 

Peel some good rennet apples, scoop out the cores with 
an apple scoop, without breaking the fruits ; let them sim- 
mer in boiled syrup. AVhen done enough, arrange them 
in the computier, fill the hollow with apricot or any other 
preserve you like; reduce the syruj) almost to jelly, let it 
cool, and then pour it over the apples. 



31. Cornucopias a la Crime. 

Have some tin moulds made in the shape of cornucopias, 
line them with paste, turning a bit over the moulds to form 



SWEETS. 413 

an edge. When baked, fill them "with a cream made like a 
rich custard, put them into the oven for a few minutes to 
dr}'-, but take care they do not colour in the least. 



32. Coup Jack. 

Make a good custard with a pint of milk and the yolks 
of six eggs. Half freeze it, add fruit, and flavour with a 
little liqueur brandy. 



33. Cowslip Pudding. 

Take two quarts of cowslip pips, pound them small 
with half a pound of Naples biscuits, grated, and three 
pints of cream. Boil these together; then beat up ten eggs 
with a little cream and rose-water; sweeten to your taste; 
mix the whole well together, butter a dish, pour in the 
mixture, with a little fine sugar over all, and put into the 
oven. 



34. Cream Burnt in Moulds. 

Put two ounces of sugar in a pan ; stir it over the fire 
till it gets brown, but not burnt ; add a pint and a half 
of cream, with an ounce and a half of isinglass ; boil it for 
half an hour, and sweeten to taste : stir all together, strain, 
and put in moulds. 



35. Cream Coffee. 

Put four ounces of roasted whole coffee in a quart of 
cream with four ounces of sugar and four yolks of eggs ; 



4U THE THOliOUGH GOOD COOK. 

whisk it over the tire till it boils and strew till it is cold, 
strainiiii^ it throiitdi a sieve. 

Another Way. 

Have a pint of clear jelly of calves'-feet free from blacks 
and fat. Clear a large cupful of strong coffee with isinglass 
tiir bright and deeply brown. Mix it with the jelly, add 
a pint of good cream, and tine sugar to taste ; and after 
mixing Avell, boil up for a few minutes till you have a 
Aveak jelly. 

36. Cream, Devonshire or Clotted. 

This is made by putting the milk into a large metal or 
earthenware (I prefer earthenware) pan, and allowmg it to 
stand without moving it for some hours — tAvent3^-four in 
winter, twelve in summer. The pan is then placed on a 
stove, so that it will heat without boiling or even simmering 
until a solid mass forms on the top. The pan should then 
be taken to a cool dairy, and the cream lifted off when 
it has become quite cold. The more slowly this is done 
the better. 



37. Cream, Italian. 

Melt an ounce of isinglass in as little water as possible ; 
take one pint of double cream, whip this very lightly, adding 
by degrees one of Madeira, two tablespoonfuls of brandy, 
and the rind of one lemon rubbed on sugar; add also 
sufficient sugar to sweeten the cream. Mix in the isinglass 
when nearly cold, and immediately pour it into the mould, 
which should previously be rubbed over with sweet oil. 
The mould does not require to be dipped in Avarm Avater to 
turn it out ; for, if carefully oiled, it Avill deliver without 
and the dish will have a much smoother appearance. 



SWEETS. 415 

38. Cream, Orange, without Cream. 

Rub the rind of six China oranges on sugar, and scrape it 
off; add the juice of three lemons, a quarter of a pound 
of sugar, fourteen yolks of eggs, one wineglass of Avater ; 
whisk all together over the fire till it begins to thicken, 
but not to boil, and continue to whisk till cold. — Lemon 
cream is done the same way. 



39. Cream, Pineapple, with Jam. 

Pound six ounces of preserved pineapple, one teaspoon- 
ful of the pine syrup, a quarter of a pint of clarified sugar, 
the juice of two lemons, a pint and a half of cream ; rub 
through a sieve, and add four slices of preserved pine, cut 
into small dice. 



40. Curd Pudding. 

Rub the curd of two gallons of milk, well drained, 
through a sieve; mix it with six eggs, a little cream, two 
tablespoonfuls each of flour and bread-crumbs, half a pound 
of currants, and the same of raisins, cut and stoned. Boil 
for an hour in a thick floured cloth. 



41. Curd Star. 

Set a quart of new milk upon the fire with two or 
three blades of mace ; and when ready to boil, put to it 
the yolks and whites of nine eggs, well beaten, and as 
much salt as will lie upon a small knife's point. Let it 
boil till the whey is clear; then drain it on a thin cloth 
or hair-sieve ; season it with sugar, and a little cinnamon, 
rose-water, orange-flower water, or white wme, to your 



416 TEE TEOBOUGE GOOD COOK. 

taste, find put into a star form, or any other. Let it stand 
some hours before you turn it into a dish; then surround 
it with thick cream or custard. 



42. Custard. 

Into a quart of cream shce half a nutmeg, a few blades 
of mace, and ten or twelve cloves; simmer it a while with 
laurel leaves, if approved ; then strain, and add by degrees 
ten eggs, five whites well beaten with a little sherry or 
brandy, and a pinch of salt, with sugar to taste. When 
thoroughly mixed, pour into the custard-cups, and lightly 
grate nutmeg over the top. 



43. Custard, Almond. 

Blanch and pound seven or eight ounces of sweet and 
half an ounce of bitter almonds, using a little rose-water 
to prevent them from oiling. Sweeten a j^int or rather 
more of boiling milk, and another of cream, and mix 
these gradually with the yolks of six eggs, stirring them 
Avell as ..they cool. Rub the almond paste through a sieve 
to this, and set it over the fire to thicken, carefully stirring 
it ; pour it. 



44. Custard, Baked. 

Boil and sweeten with fine sugar a pint of milk and 
another of cream ; flavour with a stick of cinnamon and a 
bit of lemon-peel. When cool, mix in the yolks of four 
eggs. Pick out the cinnamon and lemon-peel, fill the cups, 
and bake for ten minutes. 



SWEETS. 417 

45. Custard, Lemon. 

Beat the 3'olks of eight eggs, as well as if for a cake, 
till they are like strong cream. With this mix gradually 
fi pint of boiling water, and the grated rind and juice of 
two lemons. Sweeten to taste, and stir it one way over 
the fire till it thickens, but do not let it boil. Add a little 
wine and brandy when the custard is almost ready. Stir 
till cool. Serve in cups ; to be eaten cold. 



46. Derbyshire Pudding. 

Take a pint of milk and two tablespoonfuls of flour ; 
mix by degrees, boil till thick, and set by till cold ; then 
add three ounces of butter, beaten to a cream, a quarter 
of a pound of fine sugar, a little salt, the rind of a lemon 
grated, the yolks of five and whites of three eggs ; mix 
thoroughly, put a paste round the dish, and bake in a 
quick oven. This pudding is very good cold. 



47. Devonshire White-Pot. 

Take a pint of cream and strain four eggs into it ; 
add a little salt and a little sliced nutmee:, and season with 
sugar till somewhat sweet ; then take fine bread sliced very 
thin, and put it into a dish. The cream and the eggs being 
put to it, add a handful of raisins of the sun that have 
been boiled, and a little sweet butter ; so bake it. 



48. Dnke of Cumberland's Pudding. 

Mix, in equal proportions, grated bread, shredded suet, 
chopped apples, loaf-sugar, and cleaned currants, with six 

BB 



418 THE TIIOllOUGII GOOD COOK. 

esrs"s well beaten. Season with the e^rate of a lemon, half a 
nutmeo-, a little salt, and two ounces of candied citron, 
lemon and orange-peel. Mix the ingredients thoroiighl}^ 
and Avhen they have stood for an hour to amalgamate, put 
the whole into a buttered mould. Tie several folds of a 
floured cloth over it, and boil for two hours and a half 



49. Dutch Pudding. 

Boil a pint and a half of milk, slice six ounces of bread, 
pour the milk over, cover it close, and when almost cold, 
beat it fine ; add four ounces of butter, five eggs, a quarter 
of a pound of loaf-sugar, and a little nutmeg. 



50. Fig Tart. 

Slice some good figs, and put to them as nuich 
milk as will just cover them ; cover Avith a plate and set 
them in a moderate oven to stew a little ; stir in a small 
piece of butter, and sugar to taste; lino a soup plate or 
patty-pans with puff-paste; finish the tarts in the same 
way as mince pies (p. 427). A few sharp apples or a little 
lemon-juice would, in my opinion, be an improvement. 



51. Floating Island. 

First, make a nice custard and pour it into a trifle 
dish ; then, for the foundation of the " island," place a cir- 
cular layer of sponge cake (you can get the flat circular 
sponge cakes at any of Fuller's confectionery shops all 
ready) ; on the sponge cake place a layer of calves'-feet 
jelly ; next a layer of plum cake, and so on, alternate cake 



SWEETS. 419 

and jelly, diminishing the circular slices in size pyramid- 
ically as they ascend ; cover with a good whipped cream ; 
then powder this trifle with pink cocoa-nut shreds ; and 
to give a sheen to the pyramid, throw on at the last 
moment — not the old-fashioned hundreds and thousands 
of my childhood, but some dozens of tiny little gold and 
silver globules, which are also procurable at Fuller's various 
establishments. 



52. French Paste. 

Take half a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, 
half a pound of sifted sugar; rub the butter and sugar 
together; add four whole eggs by degrees, with half a 
lemon-peel grated, one drachm of mace and cinnamon in 
powder ; spread on a copper baking-plate, tinned, as thick 
as your finger; bake, and cut into any shape you please 
while hot. 



53. Prench Pudding, A. 

Take the crumb of two small loaves, cut it into dice ; 
raisins of the sun, one pound ; beef suet, chopped ver}^ 
fine, one pound ; sugar, five or six ounces ; eighteen or 
twenty pretty large lumps of marrow; one dozen dates, 
sliced ; one pint of cream, six eggs beaten in it ; flavour 
with salt, nutmeg, cloves, and mace. Butter a dish, pare 
and slice four pippins, lay at the bottom, pour the pudding 
over, and bake. 



54. Fritters, Chicken. 
Put some new milk into a stew-pan, and add as nuich 
flour of rice as will give it a moderate consistence. Beat three 
or four eggs, the yolks and whites together, and mix them 

BB 2 



420 THE TIIOEOUGH GOOD COOK. 

well with the rice and milk. Add thereto a pint of cream, 
set it over a stove, and stir it well. Put in some pow- 
dered sugar, candied lemon-peel cut small, and some fresh 
grated lemon-peel. Cut off the white meat of a roasted 
chicken, pull it into small shreds, and add it to the other 
ingredients, stirring the Avhole together. This Avill make 
a rich paste, Avhich must be rolled out, cut into fritters, 
and fried in boiling lard. StreAV the bottom of the dish 
with powdered sugar, put in the fritters, and throw some 
more sugar over them. 



55. Fritters, German. 

Pare, core, and quarter some apples, and cut them 
into round pieces. Put a quarter of a pint of brandy, a 
tablespoonful of fine sugar pounded, together Avitli some 
cinnamon, into a pan. Add the aj)ples thereto, and set 
the whole over a o-entle fire, stirrinsf them often, Avithout 
breaking them. Set on another pan with lard, and when 
it boils, drain the apples, dip them in flour, and put them 
into it. Strew sugar over the dish, and place it on the 
fire, lay in the fritters, throw some sugar over them, and 
Q-laze them with a red-hot salamander. 



56. Fritters, Flain. 

These may be made of the same kind of batter as pan- 
cakes by pouring a small quantity into the pan, or by 
grating some crumb of bread and putting it into a pint 
of milk, mixinsj it smooth, and, when cold, addin<:>' the yolks 
of five eggs, three ounces of sifted sugar, and some grated 
nutmeg. Fry the fritters, and when done pour thereon 
melted butter, wine, and sugar. 



SWEETS. 421 

57. Gauffres. 

Put into a warm basin half a pound of butter, and beat 
it with a wooden spoon till it becomes like thick cream ; 
mix six yolks of eggs, one by one, beating them well, and 
add three tablespoonfuls of flour, with a little sugar rubbed 
on a lemon ; take half a pint of double cream well beaten 
up ; also whip the six whites of eggs very firm, and mix all 
together very lightly. Make the gauffre irons hot on both 
sides, pour in a little clarified butter for the first baking, 
bake the gauffres quickly, serve them as hot as possible, and 
at the last moment throw over them a little pounded 
cinnamon, mixed with fine sugar. 



58. Gauffres, French. 

Ingredients required are eight ounces of flour, four 
ounces of powdered sugar, one pint of whipped cream, 
eight eggs, one stick of vanilla, a little salt, and a glass of 
Curasao. Place the flour, sugar, and salt in a basin, then 
add the yolks of the eggs, the (pounded) vanilla, and the 
cura9ao, and mix these well together, gradually adding 
the whipped cream just before using the batter ; add the 
whipped whites of eggs, and mix them in lightly, so as to 
thoroughly incorporate them with it. Bake these gauft'res 
in irons made for the purpose, and which must have been 
moistened with a little clarified butter. Fill one side of the 
irons with some of the batter, handling it gently with a 
spoon ; close the irons, and then turn them upside down 
(that the batter may run into the oj^posite side) and set 
them over the fire. Observe, however, that the irons be 
very carefully heated, and the superfluous heat allowed to 
go off previously to filling them with the batter, for, owing 
to the presence of sugar, the gauffres readily acquire colour. 



422 THE THOBOFGH GOOD COOK. 

When done, shake some vanilla sugar over them, and send 
them to table. These gauft'res may be spread with some 
kind of preserve, such as apricot, currant, jelly, etc. 



59. German Puddings. 

A pint of cream, two tablespoon fu Is of flour, the yolks 
of live eo-gfs, two ounces of almonds, beaten a little : the 
crumb of a French roll grated, with sugar to your taste . 
the peel of two lemons, grated or shredded small ; and lastly, 
a, quarter of a pound of butter, clarified and put in cool : pour 
into buttered cups, and bake as custards : when you turn 
them out, pour over them melted butter, wine, and sugar. 



60. Green Pudding. 

Of mutton and beef suet, shredded very small, three- 
quarters of a pound each ; bread-crumbs, a pound and a half: 
mix with a sufficient quantity of cream, and the yolks of 
four and the whites of two eggs, well beaten. Parsley chopped 
fine, one handful ; juice of spinach, one pint ; season with 
salt, sweeten with loaf-sugar to taste ; add grated nutmeg 
and one pound of currants, with a little flour. Mix the 
ingredients well together, roll up in a sheep's caul, and 
bake. 



61. Grateful Pudding. 

Take fine flour and grated bread, of each an equal 
quantity ; four whole eggs and four 3"olks, well beaten ; 
well sweeten with fine loaf sugar, as nuich cream as Avill 
make the whole the thickness of batter ; then add raisins 
of the sun, stoned, and currants, of each one pound, more 



SWEETS. 423 



or less, according to the size of the pudding ; nutmeg, 
cinnamon, candied-peel at pleasure; bake three-quarters 
of an hour in a dish well buttered ; when done, grate fine 
sugar over the pudding, and serve it with wine sauce or 
sugar and lemon -juice. 



62. Grateful Pudding, Another. 

Take the crumb of white bread, slice thin into a dish to 
a quart of cream ; set it over a chafing dish of charcoal 
till the bread grows dryish ; put in a piece of sweet butter, 
take it off and let it get cold ; beat together four yolks and 
one or two Avhites with a little rose-water and suorar to 
your palate, and add this to the former with a grated nut- 
meg. Put all (being well mixed) into another dish, and 
so bake it. 



63. Hanover Cake or Pudding. 

I'ake half a pound of almonds blanched and beaten fine 
with a little rose-water, half a pound of sifted sugar, twelve 
eggs, leaving out half the whites, the rind of a lemon 
gmted very fine ; put a few almonds in the mortar at a 
time, and introduce by degrees about a teacupful of rose- 
wat^r; keep throwing in the sugar: when you have done 
the almonds and the sugar together a little at a time till 
they are all used up, put the mixture into your pan Avith 
the eggs, beating them well together. In half an hour the 
dish Avill be baked ; it must be a lisrht brown. 



64. Hunting Pudding. 

Beat eight eggs, and mix them with a pint of good 
cream and a pound of flour ; when beaten well together, add 



424 THE THOROUGR GOOD COOK. 

a pound of beef suet chopped very fine, a pound of currants 
well-cleaned, half a pound of raisins stoned and chopped 
small, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, two ounces of 
candied citron, the same of candied orange, cut very small ; 
grate a large nutmeg, and mix all well together with half 
a gill of brandy ; put the pudding in a cloth, and tie it up 
close ; it Avill take four hours to boil. 



65. Italian Fuddiug, Au. 

Take a pint of cream, and slice therein as much French 
roll as Avill make it thick ; beat up live eggs ; butter the 
bottom of a dish, slice eight pippins into it, and add 
thereto some orange-peel, sugar, and half a pint of port 
wine. Pour in the cream, bread, and eggs, lay a puff-paste 
over the dish, and bake half an hour. 



66. Lady Sunderland's Pudding. 

Beat up the yolks of eight eggs with the whites of three, 
add five tablespoonfuls of flour and a grated nutmeg, and 
put the whole into a pint of cream. Butter some small 
basins, fill them half way, and bake them an hour. When 
done, turn the puddings out, and pour on melted butter, 
wine, and sugar. 



67. Lemon Puffs. 

Beat and sift a pound and a quarter of double-refined 
suo'ar, QTate the I'ind of two lemons, and mix the same 
Avith tho» sugar ; then beat the Avhites of three ncAV-laid 
Ggga, add them to the sugar and peel, and beat for an 



SWEETS. 425 

.hour; make up into shape and bake on oiled paper laid 
on tin plates, in a moderate oven. The paper must remain 
till cold. Oilino- it will make it come off with ease. 



68. Lemou Fudding*. 

Boil very tender, in at least two but by preference three 
waters, the thinly-shaved rind of two lemons ; then beat 
this very fine in a mortar with the pulp of the lemons, 
perfectly freed from skin and kernels, and add three-quarters 
of a pound of loaf-sugar sifted, four biscuits grated, the 
yolks of ten eggs beaten with a little of the best brandy, 
one ounce of citron, and one ounce of lemon-peel shredded 
fine ; when all is mixed, stir it into half a pound of clarified 
butter, and keep stirring one way till it is cold. Then 
bake it in a putt-paste. 

Another Way. 

Beat up the yolks of four eggs with four ounces of 
lump sugar, rub thereto the rind of a lemon, then peel 
the same, and beat it in a mortar, with the juice of a 
large oiie. Mix the whole with four or five ounces of 
Avarmecl butter. La}- a crust in a shallow dish, notch the 
edges, and put in the pudding, but when baked, turn it 
out into another dish for the table. 



69. Macaroon Custard Pudding. 

Fill the bottom of a dish with macaroons, soak them 
with white wine, and pour over them a custard made of 
twenty eggs, a pint and a half of cream, and a pint of 



426 THE THOEOUGH GOOD COOK. 

new milk, Avitli tlie addition of such sweetmeats as may 
be agreeable. The dish may be lined with puff-paste; 
but care must be taken that it is not baked too much. 



70. Macaroni Pudding. 

Take an ounce and a half of the best macaroni, and 
simmer it in a pint of milk with a little cinnamon till 
tender; put it into a dish with milk, three eggs (luit only 
one white), some sugar, and a little nutmeg. 



71. Meringues. 

\Miisk the whites of six eggs till they are as white as 
snow, add twelve ounces of powdei'ed sugar and some grated 
candied lemon-peel : whisk well together ; take it by spoon- 
fuls and put them on a sheet of white paper powdered 
with sugar, and then in a gentle oven. When they begin 
to swell and take a good colour, detach them from the 
paper, hollow them a little, and fill them with cream. 
Put one on the other, stick them together with Avhite of 
eofsf, and let them dry. 



72. Mille Peuilles (Italian Pyramid). 

A good puff-paste, rather thick, must be stamped out 
with tin stamps or any ingenious substitutes into a number 
of pieces, each less than the other, the base being of the 
size of the plate in which the pyramid is to be served, and 
the others gradually tapering to the top. Bake the pieces 
of paste on paper laid on tins, and ice them. Pile them 
up with raspberry and other jams of difterent colours, laid 



SWEETS. 427 



on tlie edges, and a bunch of small preserved fruit or some 
other ornament on the top. 



73. Mince Fies. 

Take of neat's tongue or heart parboiled one pound and 
a half, chopped very line ; add to it one pound and a half 
of beef suet and an equal weight of currants, minced; one 
large nutmeg, cloves, and blades of mace, beaten fine ; a 
little salt, four minced pippins, and half a pound of raisins, 
stoned and chopped small ; half a pint of sherry, rpiarter of 
a pint of best brandy, quarter of a pint of verjuice, one pound 
of loaf-sugar pounded ; a little rose-Avater, the rind of a 
large lemon minced small, with the juice : also candied 
lemon and citron peel — of each two ounces, shredded small. 
The crust should be very rich and flaky, and the meat 
entirely covered above and below. 



74. Mince Pies: Another Way. 

Rub with salt and mixed spices a flat bullock's tongue. 
Let it lie three days, and parboil : skin, mince, or scrape it. 
Mince separately three pounds of /ante currants picked, 
plumped, and dried ; a dozen lemon pippin apples pared and 
cored ; and a pound of blanched almonds. Mix together, 
and add half a pound of candied citron and orange-peel, 
minced, and an ounce of beaten cinnamon and cloves, Avith 
the juice and grated rind of three or four lemons, half 
an ounce of salt, the same quantity of allspice, and a 
quarter of a pound of fine sugar pounded, a pint and a 
half of Madeira, and half a pint of brand}^ Line the })ans 
with rich pull-paste, and serve the pies hot with burnt 



428 TEE TEOBOUGE GOOD COOK. 

brand}'. The brandy is best when burnt at table as it is 
used. Though the mincemeat will keep for some time, it 
is better when not old. The fruit, suet, and wine may be 
added when the pies are to be made (as the suet and raw 
apples are apt to spoil), also the dried fruits. 



75. Muffin or Cabinet Pudding. 

C*ut three muffins in two : pour a pint and a half of 
boiling' milk over them : let them stand till cold. Make 
a custard of eight yolks and four whole eggs beaten up with 
one pint of cream, and one glass of brandy ; a quarter of 
a pound of sugar, one nutmeg, and one lemon-peel, grated; 
butter a mould, place some dried cherries and custard to 
cover altcrnatelv Avith the muffins till the mould is full ; 
boil it in a stew-pan, with a little water for the mould to 
stand in, one hour and a half ; serve wine sauce with it. 

Ohs. — French plum pudding is made in the same wa}^ 

Another Way. 

Boil a small piece of lemon-peel, a little cinnamon, 
and sugar, for eight or ten minutes in a pint of milk. 
Put three nniffins into a large basin, strain over them the 
milk, and when cold, mash the whole with a wooden spoon. 
Pound about an ounce of blanched almonds, mix them 
well in with about a quarter of a pound of any dry pre- 
served fruit, as apricots, cherries, or plums, a little grated 
nutmeg, three yolks of eggs beaten, and tAvo tablespoon- 
fuls each of brandy and orange-flower water. Bake the 
pudding, Avith puft'-paste round the dish ; or you may 
boil it, tied up in a basin. Currants may be substituted 
for the preserved fruit. 



SWEETS. , 429 

76. Nelson Puddings. 

Put into a Dutcli oven six small cakes called Nelson- 
balls, or rice cakes made in small teacups. When quite 
hot, pour over them boiling melted butter, Avhite wine, 
and sugar ; and serve. 



77. Nesselrode Pudding. 

Peel forty chestnuts, blanch them in boiling water 
for five minutes, peel off the second skin, and put them 
in a stew-pan with a quart of syrup and a stick of vanilla. 
Simmer gently till the chestnuts are done ; drain, and 
press them through a fine hair-sieve. Put eight yolks of 
eggs in a stew-pan with half a pound of pounded sugar, 
and a quart of boiled cream ; stir over the tire without 
boiling till the egg begins to thicken ; add the chestnut 
puree, press the whole through a tammy cloth into a basin, 
and add a gill of maraschino. Stone a quarter of a pound 
of raisins, and wash and pick a quarter of a pound of 
currants ; cook both together in one half-gill of syrup 
and one gill of water; drain, and let them cool. Put a 
freezing-pot on the ice, pour in the chestnut cream, and 
work it with the spatula ; when it is partly frozen, add 
three gills of whipped cream, and continue working with 
the spatula until the cream is quite frozen ; then add the 
currants and raisins, and put the pudding into an ice 
mould ; close it, place some butter on the opening to 
prevent any salt or water penetrating inside the mould, 
and let it remain in ice for two hours. 

To make the sauce : — Put three gills of boiled cream in 
a stew-pan, with eight yolks of eggs, and about four ounces 
of pounded sugar ; stir over the fire Avithout boiling till 
the egg begins to thicken; take off the fire and stir for 
three minutes more; strain the custard through a tammy 



430 THE THOnOUGH GOOD COOK. 

cloth, and add half a gill of maraschino. Put the sauce on 
the ice until it is very cold, but not freezing. Turn the 
pudding out of the mould on to a napkin on a dish, and 
serve, with the sauce in a boat. 



78. Noddy Puddings. 

Beat blanched almonds very tine, add one or two table- 
spoonfuls of rose-water or cream, strain through a sieve, 
boil it, and set it to cool. Then thicken it Avith beaten 
eggs, sweeten with fine lump-sugar dissolved in rose-water, 
and tie it up in different bags ; boil the puddings half 
an hour in a small saucepan, and melt butter with rose- 
water and sugar for the sauce. 

These curious puddings may be coloured with spinach- 
juice, saftron, beet, or other articles. 

Another Way. 

Take two small white loaves, pare off the crust ; 
slice them into a dish ; put to them a quart or three pints 
of cream, set the dish over a chafing-dish of charcoal till 
the bread grows dryish; then stir in a good piece of butter, 
and gradually mix in the yolks of half a dozen eggs and 
the Avhites of three ; Avell beat with rose-water, and sugar, 
and some nutmeg grated ; mix all together, and when baked, 
strew fine sugar over. 



79. NorthumTberland Puddings. 

Make a thick batter by boiling and sweetening milk 
and flom-. When cold and firm, mash it up, and add to 
it four ounces of melted butter, the same weight of currants. 



SWEETS. 431 

two ounces of candied lemon and orange-peel, sliced, and 
a little brandy if liked. Butter teacups, and bake the 
puddings in them for fifteen minutes. Turn them out on 
a dish, and pour wine sauce over them if to be eaten hot. 
If to make a cold ornamental supper dish, omit the wine 
sauce. 



80. Omelette, Sweet. 

Many things go to make a good omelette, but the first 
is —the eggs must be absolutely fresh ; then the yolks and 
whites must be beaten separately. Your pan must be per- 
fectly clean, and absolutely free from damp ; for this reason 
some cooks never wash their omelette pans, but clean them 
thoroughl}^ with bread. Beat up the yolks of your eggs — 
six make a o-ood-sized omelette — with three ounces of butter 
in yoiu- pan, which must have been warmed for a minute 
over the fire before the butter goes in. Mix the whipped 
Avhites Avith the other ingredients, and pour into the pan, 
shakinof it all the time. As soon as the under side is 
nicely browned, sift jaoAvdered sugar over the top, fold it 
over — remend)er, an omelette nuist never be turned — put it 
for five minutes in a brisk oven. Serve immediate^, before 
it has time to sink. (See also p. 189.) 



81. Orange Pudding. 

Take the yolks of six eggs, or as many as you like, 
beat them well with half a pound of melted butter, grate in 
the rind of two Seville oranges, beat in half a pound of fine 
sugar, two dessertspoonfuls of orange-flower water, two of 
rose-water, a gill of sherry, half a pint of cream, two 
Naples biscuits, or the crumb of a halfpenny loaf (soaked 
in the cream), and mix well all together. Make a thin jjuff- 



432 TEE THOIiOUGII GOOD COOK. 

paste, and lay all over the dish and round the rim ; pour 
in the jDudding and bake it. It will take about as long 
baking as a custard. 



82. Orange Tart. 

Line a shallow tart dish with a good puff-paste, and 
upon it pour the following mixture : — Take four Seville 
oranges, and double their weight of sugar; squeeze all the 
juice from the pulp, then boil the oranges till tender ; 
then pound them into a paste, adding the sugar, a tea- 
spoonful of butter, the juice from the oranges, and a few 
drops of essence of lemon ; bake till the crust is done, and 
then cover with custard or cream. 



83. Pancakes, Berlin. 

Stir three tablespoonfuls of yeast, or an ounce and a 
half of dried yeast, into half a pint of lukewarm milk ; mix 
this with half a pound of flour, and set it to rise. Have 
a pound of flour warming in another pan ; add to this the 
grated peel of half a lemon, half an ounce of bitter almonds, 
blanched and pounded fine, a quarter of a pound of sifted 
sugar, a little nutmeg grated, a little salt, and the 3'olks of 
three eggs. When the yeast batter has risen, add to it the 
other inerredients, and use lukewarm milk enough to make 
the whole as thick as a light bread dough. Xow add half 
a pound of warmed butter, and beat the mass at least a 
rpiarter of an hoiu', until it is so smooth and light that- 
bubbles appear, and it drops from the spoon. C*over, and 
let it partly rise, then slightly work it together again. 
Take a part of it at a time on a paste- board, roll it out a 
bare half-inch thick, and with a round cutter, two inches 



SWEETS. 433 

and a half in diameter, cut out cakes. On half of these 
put a teaspoonful of some nice thick preserve, such as 
plum, raspberry, or apricot, leaving a good half-inch margin 
of paste round the preserve. Moisten this round, and lay 
another cake on the top. Press them round, and if spread 
at all, cut them out again with the same cutter. Lay them 
on a floured tin, and set them in a warm place to rise, but 
not too high, or they will absorb the friture in frying. The 
frying-pan must be very hot, and well supplied with butter 
or sweet lard. Fry as many cakes at a time as you can 
conveniently turn in the pan ; both sides must be done a 
clear yellow brown, not dark. Lay them on a napkin when 
done, that no friture may hang about them. Wlien they 
are cold, sift sugar over them, or ice them with the white 
of an egg or two whisked to a snow with a little lemon- 
juice, and sifted sugar enough to form a creamy icing, which 
must be laid on with the paste-brush. Set the pancakes 
in a cool oven or before the fire to dry a little. 



84. Pancakes, Cream. 

Mix the yolks of two eggs with half a pint of cream, 
two ounces of susfar, some beaten cinnamon, mace, and 
nutmeg. Fry them as quickly as possible, and grate over 
them some lump-sugar. 



85. Pancakes, Irish. 

Take a pint of cream, eight yolks and four whites of 
eggs ; beat the eggs with some grated nutmeg and sugar ; 
then melt three ounces of butter in the cream, mix it with 
the rest, and add thereto about half a pint of flour smoothed 
fine. Rub the pan with some butter, and fry the cakes thin 
without turning. Serve several, one on another. 

CO 



434 THE THOBOUGH GOOD COOK. 

86. Pancakes, New England. 

Mix with a pint of creani five tablespoonfuls of fine 
flour, seven yolks and four whites of eggs, and a little salt. 
Fry very thin in fresh butter, strewing between every 
two pancakes sugar and powdered cinnamon. Six or eight 
should be sent to table at once. 



87. Pancakes, Pink-coloured. 

Boil till tender a large beetroot, and then bruise it 
in a marble mortar. Put to it the yolks of four eggs, two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, three of cream, half a grated nutmeg, 
some sugar, and a glass of brandy. Mix these ingredients 
thoroughly, fry them well, and serve up the pancakes with 
a garnish of green sweetmeats, preserved apricots, or sprigs 
of myrtle. 



88. Pancakes, B,ice. 

Boil half a pound of rice to a jelly with a little water; 
when cold, mix with it a pint of cream, eight eggs, a small 
matter of salt, and some nutmeg. Stir in eight ounces 
of butter, just warmed, and as much flour as will thicken 
the batter. Fry in a very little lard or dripping. 



89. Pancake Pudding. 

Take a quart of milk, four eggs, and two large spoonfuls 
of flour, with some salt, and grated ginger. Beat all up 
into a smooth batter, and put it into a buttered dish. 
When baked, pour over it melted butter. 



SWEETS. 435 

90. Plum Pudding. 

One pound of fine flour dried ; one pound of currants very 
carefully washed, picked, and dried before the fire; one pound 
of raisins stoned and chopped ; one pound of beef suet or 
marrow shredded very fine ; eight eggs, the yolks and whites 
beaten long and separately and well mixed Avith the flour be- 
fore any other ingredients are added ; two ounces of candied 
citron shredded fine ; two ounces of almonds blanched and 
cut in pieces ; a nutmeg and a little ginger, and a glass of 
brandy. If not sufficiently moist, use either a little new 
milk or water — the less the better of either. The milk will 
make the pudding more solid, the water makes it lighter. 
Let it boil four hours, and serve with sugar sifted over, and 
wine sauce. 



91. Plum Fuddiug: Another Way. 

Having carefully stoned a pound of the best jar raisins, 
well washed and picked the same quantity of fine and 
newest currants, chopped or minced small a pound of the 
freshest beef suet, and blanched and pounded two ounces 
of almonds, mix these ingredients in a pound each of sifted 
flour and bread-crumbs, adding two ounces of candied citron, 
orange and lemon-peel, half a grated nutmeg, a blade or 
two of beaten mace, a quarter of a pound of powdered loaf- 
sugar, and a very little salt; then moisten the whole Avith 
ten beaten eggs, about half a pint of cream, a glass or two 
of mountain wine, to make it of a good consistence — though 
it must not be thin, as the fruit would then settle at the 
bottom. Being thus made, it may either be put into a dish 
or mould and well beaten, or, as is more generally the case, 
carefully tied up in a cloth, boiled at least four hours, and 
served up with melted butter in mountain wine, and sifted 
sugar. 

cc 2 



436 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

92. Preserved Fruit Puffs. 

Roll out thin good piift-paste, and cut it into pieces ; 
lay a small quantity of any kind of jam on each ; double 
them over and cut them into shapes, lay them with paper 
on a baking plate, ice them, and bake them about twenty 
mii^utes without colouring them. 



93. Pudding a la Parisieuue. 

Having minced a clove of the best vanilla, pound it 
with a quarter of a pound of sugar and rub it through a 
sieve; shred three-quarters of a pound of veal suet, and 
half the quantity of beef marrow, and put these, with six 
ounces of rice-Hour, into a saucepan, adding to them seven 
yolks and two whole eggs, half a glass of cream, half a 
glass of maraschino, a pinch of salt, the quarter of a nut- 
meg grated, two ounces of whole pistachios, four ounces of 
sweet macaroons bruised, the sugared vanilla, thirty jDre- 
served cherries, well drained, and each cut in half, and 
half a dozen apples, chopped small ; mix these ingredients 
together well, and then jDut them into a well-buttered 
cloth ; tie it up, fasten a weight of ten pounds to the 
centre of the pudding, to prevent its falling to one side, and 
put it into a large saucepan filled with boiling hot water ; 
set on the fire, and keep constantly boiling for four hours ; 
then take it out, dip it an instant in cold water, remove 
the cloth, and with a very sharp knife remove all the 
outside of the pudding ; strew powdered sugar over, and 
having cut two ounces of pistachios each into six slices, 
fix them in like the quills of a hedge-hog. Serve as quickly 
as jDossible. 



SWEETS. 437 

94. Pudding, A Very Delicious. 

Having beaten one pound of almonds very fine with rose- 
water and cream, add the yolks of five and the whites of 
two eggs, with one pound of beef suet shredded fine ; make 
it as thin as batter for fritters, mixing it with cream ; season 
with salt, sugar, and mace ; bake or boil an hour, and servo 
with susfar strewn over it. 



95. Puff-Paste, Light. 

To make light puff-paste, attention is principally required 
in the rolling out: if it should be too light, it may be 
rolled out once or twice more than is prescribed here, as 
it principally depends on the fold w^hether it rises evenly 
and high. 

With a pound of good stiff" butter (free from water) take 
one pound of Hour; break and rub half the butter in the 
flour, wet it into a paste with a quarter of a pint of water, 
the juice of one lemon, and the yolk of one egg, beaten up 
with it (care must be taken not to make the paste too soft, 
but hard enough to roll out the thickness of a crown piece) ; 
lay the remainder of the butter in thin slices all over ; 
fold it up, beginning at top and bottom, to the middle, in 
five or six folds ; roll it out as thin as at first, brushing 
off the flour before folding up ; -when rolled out and folded 
three times this way, try a piece in the oven ; if so light 
that it falls over, roll it out once or tAvice more. The piece 
tried should not be thicker than a crown piece ; if it rises 
j)roperly, it has been folded evenly; if not, the ends have 
not been laid straight. 

This paste is used for all sorts of pies, patties, vol-au- 
vent, and light pastry generall}''. 



438 TEE THOEOUGH GOOD COOK. 

96. Pumpion Pie. 

Take about half a pound of pumpion and slice it ; a hand- 
ful of thyme, a little rosemary, parsley, and sweet marjoram 
slipped off the stalks, and chop them small ; then take 
cinnamon, nutmeg, pepper, and six cloves, and beat them; 
next, ten eggs, which also beat ; mix and beat all together, 
and put in as much sugar as you think fit ; fry it like a 
" froix " ; after it is fried, let it stand till it be cold. Then fill 
your pie, take sliced aj)ples, thin roundways, and lay a row 
of the " froix " and a layer of apples, with currants betwixt 
the two, until your pie is filled, putting in a good deal 
of sweet butter before you close it. When the pie is. 
baked, take six yolks of eggs, some white wine or verjuice, 
and make a caudle, but not too thick : cut open the lid 
and put this in, stir well together, and serve up. 



97. Quaking Pudding. 

Scald a quart of cream ; when almost cold, add four 
eggs well beaten, a tablespoonful and a half of flour, some 
nutmegs, and sugar. Tie it close in a buttered cloth, boil 
it an hour, and turn it out with care for fear it should 
break. Melted butter, a little wine, and sugar, for sauce. 



98. Queen's Puddings. 

Slice some apples as for fritters ; butter a deep mould 
well; then put a layer of French roll, cut very thin and 
dipped in melted butter, without flour or water ; next, 
a layer of apples, with sugar and grated lemon-peel ; fill 
the mould in this way. If the apples require it, add some 
juice of lemon, and brandy if you choose. Last of all, cover 
the mould before you put it into the oven. 



SWEETS. 439 

99, Raspberry Tart. 

Select fresh, well-ripened raspberries, and place them in 
layers on a tart dish, sprinkling over each of these layers 
a handful of powdered sugar. Erect the fruit in a dome- 
like shape above the level of the dish. Cover the dish 
with a large round of paste, ornament nicely, and bake for 
forty-five minutes; then let it cool. 



100. Biice and Apples. 

Core as many nice apples as will fill the dish ; boil them 
in light syrup ; prepare a quarter of a jDound of rice in 
milk, with sugar and salt ; put some of the rice into the 
dish, add the apples, till up the intervals with rice, and 
bake in an oven till of a fine colour. 



101. Slice Custard. 

Take a quart of milk, with a small cupful of rice, and 
let it simmer on a slow fire until it boils ; add sugar to 
taste, and when the rice boils, beat up two yolks of eggs 
with the hot milk, and pour slowly into the boiling milk 
and rice, mixing the whole together, until it gets the colour 
of custard. Turn it into a flat glass dish, sprinkle with 
fine ground cinnamon, and serve either cold or hot. 



102. Rice Flummery. 

Mix two tablesj^oonfuls of rice flour with a little cold 
milk, and add to it a large pint of boiled milk, sweet- 
ened and seasoned with cinnamon and lemon-peel. Two 



440 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

bitter almonds beaten will heighten the flavour. Boil 
this, and stir it constantly, and, when of proper consistence, 
pour it into a shape or basin. When cold turn it out, 
and serve with cream or custard round it, or with a 
sauce of wine, sugar, and lemon-juice. 



103. Scotch Shortbread. 

Put two pounds of butter in some warm place over- 
night, where it will gradually become soft without at the 
same time melting. Take two quarterns of flour, and mix 
with half a pound of loaf-sugar in powder ; add these to 
the butter, and knead the whole till it appears like a dough; 
then add a tablespoonful or two of yeast ; again knead it, 
and roll out into cakes the proper size and thickness. 
Ornament the edges with comfits, having previously pricked 
the cakes with a fork. 



104. Sweetmeat Tarts (Puits d' Amour). 

Roll and cut puff-paste, as patties, Avith a scollop-cutter, 
but much smaller ; when baked, put marmalade, jam, jelly, 
custards, or cream into them. Or you may line a tart pan 
with puff-paste, put in marmalade or sweetmeat, and cover 
it over with slips of paste, according to fancy. In general 
the paste is made like basket-work. Bake and glaze with 
French o-lazinsf. 



105. Swiss Pudding. 

Beat to a strong froth six eggs with six ounces of pow- 
dered sugar, and then stir in a pint of good cream. Place 
the mixture in a buttered mould with a buttered paper 
over it, tie it down closely, and steam it for half an hour. 



SWEETS. 441 

Let it stand a little before it is turned out. It should bo 
served cold, with any kind of good preserve or flavoured 
syrup put round it. 

106. Tapioca Pudding. 

Boil two ounces of tapioca tender in a pint of milk ; 
beat up five yolks and one whole egg with half a pint 
of cream ; two ounces of butter, melted ; two ounces of 
sugar; one lemon-peel grated; bake half an hour in a 
dish lined with tart-paste. 

Another Way. 

Boil four tablespoonfuls of tapioca in a pint of new 
milk ; when thick, pour it on about two ounces of butter, 
stirring till cold ; add four eggs, two whites, brandy and 
sugar to your taste. All to be well baked in a crust. 



107. Transparent Pudding. 

Put eight eggs, well beaten, into a stew-pan with half 
a pound of sugar pounded fine, half a pound of butter, and 
some nutmeg grated. Set on the fire and keep con- 
stantly stirring till it thickens. Then place it in a basin 
to cool ; put a rich puff-paste round the edge of the dish, 
pour in the pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven. It 
will cut light and clear. Candied orange and citron may 
be added if you think proper. 



108. Transparent Tarts. 

Take one pound of flour ; beat up an egg till it is quite 
thin, then melt three-quarters of a pound of clarified fresh 



442 THE THOBOUGE GOOD COOK. 

butter to mix with the egg, and as soon as the mixture is 
cool, i^our into the centre of the flour and form the paste. 
Roll it thin, make up the tarts, and on setting them in 
the oven, wet them over with a little water and grate on 
them a small quantity of sugar. 



109. Trifle. 

Take some sponge-cakes, steep them in white wine, 
to which add a glass of brandy. When the cakes are 
quite soaked, put them into your trifle dish, and on them 
place a layer of ratafia cakes, each dipped into the wine in 
which the other cakes were steeped. On the cakes put 
a layer of jam rather thick, and cover this with a rich 
custard, made thus : — Boil half a pint of cream and a glass 
of milk with a stick of cinnamon, till it has a nice flavour ; 
sweeten to taste. Boil also the thin rind of a lemon with 
the cream, or add four or five bitter almonds pounded. 
Beat the yolks of four eggs and a little cream, put this 
into a basin, and hold it in your left hand; taking the 
boiling cream in the other hand, pour it on the eggs 
quickly, then pour it back, and continue to pour it back- 
wards and forwards as quickly as possible to mix without 
curdling. When nearly cold, put the custard again on 
the fire, stirring it till it nearly thickens and boils ; take 
it off at once and continue stirring till cool. When quite 
cool, put it on your fruit. Then take cream whipped to 
a froth with what you please, and put it on the trifle, 
prop it up, and garnish with comfits. 



110. Vacherin with Cream. 

Take half a pound of sweet almonds and half a pound 
of white sugar. Blanch, peel, and pound the almonds, add 



SWEETS. 443 

the sugar, and moisten the mixture to a stiff paste with 
white of egg. Sprinkle some powdered sugar on a pastry- 
board, and roll the almond paste upon it a quarter of an 
inch thick. Take a plain mould about six inches in diameter, 
line the sides with a band of paste one and a half inches 
deep, and join the ends securely together with white of 
egg. Stamp out a round of the paste a little larger than 
the bottom of the mould. Bake both in a gentle oven, remove 
the band from the mould, and stick it upon the round. Put 
the case again into the oven ; keep it there till it becomes 
slightly coloured, then let it get quite cold. AVhen wanted, 
till it with any nicely flavoured whipped cream, piling the 
cream as high as possible. 



111. Vermicelli or Sago Pudding. 

Boil to a paste two ounces of sago or vermicelli in a 
pint and a half of milk ; when cold, add one ounce of 
butter, melted in hah a pint of cream, six yolks and two 
whole eggs, one lemon-peel, and half a nutmeg, grated; 
two dessertspoonfuls of orange-flower water, and half an 
ounce of citron, cut; line a dish with paste, bake it half an 
hour. 



112. Welsh Pudding. 

Melt half a pound of butter by setting it in a basin 
floatino" in hot water, and gradually mix with it the beaten 
yolks of eight eggs and whites of four. Sweeten with 
finely-pounded sugar, and season with the grate of a lemon 
and a little nutmeg. Bake in a dish Avith an ornamented 
paste border ; and when ready, stick slices of citron or 
candied orange-peel round the edges. 



444 THE TEOROUOn GOOD COOK. 

113 White Cakes. 

Pat into a basin some lumps of butter, mix tlie butter 
with line white sugar, then add a pound of very fine Itahan 
flour ; work the whole into a paste, shape the paste into 
fingers or flat cakes, bake in a quick oven. Eat the cakes 
hot, and sprinkle over them either honey, preserve, or plain 
white susfar. 



114. Yam Pudding. 

Take a middling white yam, and either boil or roast 
it ; then pare off the skin, and pound it very fine with 
three-quarters of a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, 
a little mace, cinnamon, and twelve eofcfs, leaving out half 
the whites ; beat them with a little rose-water. You may 
put in a little citron cut small if you like it, and bake it 
nicely. 

115. Yaourt. 

Place some milk in a bowl, and allow it to stand for a 
day or tAvo until slightly sour ; put in a few drops of 
essence of bitter almonds and some rennet; leave it to 
turn quite sour and to thicken, and then serve with j)lenty 
of sugar. As I have said in my chat on the Greek cuisine 
(p. 2), this is a similar dish to our Devonshire junket. 



445 



SECTION XV.— ICES AND DRINKS. 



1. Vanilla Cream Ice. 

Put the yolks of twelve eggs in a stew-pan, witli half a 
pound of sugar, beaten well together with a wooden spoon ; 
in another stew-pan have a quart of milk, and when boiling 
throw in two sticks of vanilla ; take this from the fire, place 
on the lid and let remain until partly cold ; then pour it over 
the eggs and sugar in the other stew-pan, mix well and 
place over the fire ; keep stirring until it thickens and 
adheres to the back of the spoon ; now pass it through a 
tammy into a basin, and leave it until cold. Then have 
read}^ a pewter freezing-pot in the ice-pail, well surrounded 
with ice and salt ; put the above preparation into it, 
place on the lid, which must fit rather tightly, and commence 
twisting the pot round rather sharply, keeping it turning 
for about ten minutes, when take off the lid, and with your 
spatula clear the sides of the interior of the pot. Place 
the lid on again, turn the pot ten minutes longer, again 
clear the sides, and beat the whole together until smooth, 
it being now about half frozen. Then add a pint and a 
half of cream, well whipped. Beat the whole together, place 
the lid on the top, keep twisting it round for a quarter of 
an hour, clear well from the sides, beat again well together, 
proceeding thus until the whole is frozen into a stiff but 
smooth and mellow surface. Should 3'ou require to keep 
it some time before serving, pour out of the pail the water 
which has run from the ice and add more ice and salt. 
Work up smoothly with your spatula before serving. 



446 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

2. Lemon-Water Ice. 

Put in a vessel half a pound of powdered sugar, with 
one quart of cold water, grate in the rind of a large lemon, 
or of two small ones, squeezing in the juice of three good- 
sized ones, or of four if small, and with your spatula beat 
well together for five minutes. Have a syrup-weigher, place 
it ifi the centre of the preparation, and if it be twenty-one 
degrees it is correct, if not, add a little more powdered sugar ; 
remove the Aveigher, mix a little more, and then strain through 
a sieve into the freezer, putting on the cover, and proceed 
to freeze it precisely as for vanilla cream ice (No. 1), serving it 
in the same way. 



3. Lemon Cream Ice. 

Take from six lemons the rind, as thin as possible, and 
free Irom pith. Squeeze the juice of the lemons into a sugar- 
pan, with half a pound of sugar and half a pint of water. 
Place it upon the tire and reduce it to a rather thick syrup. 
Have a pint and a half of milk upon the fire, into which, 
when boiling, throw the rind of the lemons ; cover over, and 
let remain till half cold. In another stew-pan have the yolks 
of twelve eggs (to which you have added an ounce of sugar), 
with which mix the milk by degrees, and stir over the fire 
until it adheres to the back of the spoon, when stir in the 
syrup and pass through a tammy. When cold, freeze (see 
No. 1), adding a pint of whipped cream Avhen half frozen. 



4. Orange Cream Ice. 

Proceed precisely as in the last, but using the rind and 
juice of ten oranges instead of six lemons, as there directed. 



ICES AND DBINKS. 447 

5. Pineapple Cream Ice. 

Procure a rather small pineapple, take off the rind (which 
reserve), and cut the apple into pieces an inch in length and 
about the thickness of a quill; place them in a sugar-pan 
with half a pound of sugar and half a pint of water; set 
upon the fire and reduce to a thickish syrup. Have ready 
a pint and a half of milk on the fire, into which, when boil- 
ing, throw the rind of the pineapple ; cover it over and let 
it mfuse ten minutes. In another stewpan have the yolks 
of twelve eggs, to which add the milk by degrees (previously 
straining it); place it over the fire, keeping it stirred mitil 
it adheres to the back of the spoon, when pass it through 
a tammy into the basin, add the syrup and pineapple, and 
freeze (see Xo. 1), addmg a pint and a half of whipped cream 
when half-frozen. 



6. Fromage de Creme a la Glace. 

Take a pint of cream — thick, it must be — half a pint 
of milk, the yolk of an egg beaten, and three-quarters of 
a pound of sugar; let this boil up on the fire five or six 
times, and take it off; add some vanilla in essence, and 
put it in a mould; put the mould into a pail with ice 
pounded at the bottom, and a good handful of salt and 
saltpetre. Fill the pail to the top round the mould, mix 
salt and saltpetre with it. When your fromage is iced and 
ready, turn it out and serve immediately. 



7. Almond Cream Ice. 

Take six ounces of bitter almonds (sweet ones will not 
do), blanch them, and pound them in a mortar, adding by 



us THE THOEOUGU GOOD COOK. 

degrees a little rose-water. Boil them gently in a pint of 
cream till you tind tliat it is highly flavoured with them. 
Then pour the cream into a bowl, stir in half a pound of 
powdered loaf-sugar, cover it, and set it away to cool gradually. 
When it is cold, strain it, and then stir it, gradually but 
hard, into three j)ints of cream. Freeze it twice. It will 
be found very nice. 



8. Apricot Cream Ice. 

Procure a dozen and a half of fine ripe apricots, which 
cut in halves ; take out the stones, break them and extract 
the kernels, which blanch in very hot water, and skin. Then 
put them with the apricots into a sugar-pan, with half a 
pound of sugar and half a glassful of water. Let them boil 
until almost forming a marmalade, when put them by in 
a basin. Have the yolks of twelve eggs in a stew-pan, with 
which mix by degrees a pint and a half of milk. Set over 
the fire, keeping it stirred until thick enough to adhere to 
the back of a spoon. Then pass it through a tammy into 
a basin. Add the syrup and apricots, and Avhen cold three 
glasses of noyau. Freeze as in the recij^o for vanilla cream 
ice (No. 1), and when half frozen add a pint of good whipped 
cream. 



9. Chocolate Cream Ice. 

This is made like vanilla cream ice (No. 1), but omitting 
the vanilla, in the place of which scrape a quarter of a pound 
of chocolate ; place this in a stew-pan over the fire, and keep 
stirring until melted. Then have ready boiling a quart of 
milk, Avhich mix with the chocolate by degrees; finish with 
eggs and sugar, and freeze as in No. 1. 



ICES AXn DBiyXS. 44& 

10. Punch d. la Francaise, Hot. 

Put in a, saucepan on the hot range one pint of 
Jamaica rum with twelve ounces of granulated sugar ; stir 
continually with the spatula until reduced to half the 
quantity. Add the juice of three lemons and of four 
sweet oranges, then set the pan on the corner of the stove 
to keep hot. Put in a tea-pot one ounce of green tea, 
pouring over it a pint of boiling water, and let infuse for 
ten minutes, then strain into the preparation ; return this 
to the middle of the stove, and when about to boil, skim 
thoroughly Avith a skimmer. Take it from the fire, pour 
it into a punch-bowl, and serve. 



11. Cider Cup. 

Put a slice of toasted crumb of bread at the bottom of 
'a large jug; grate half a small nutmeg over it, and place 
on it two or three slices of thin lemon rind and half a dozen 
lumps of sugar. Pour over this two wineglassfuls of sherry, 
one of brandy, the juice of a lemon, a bottle of soda-Avater, 
and, last of all, a quart of cider. Mix well, put a sprig 
of borage or balm into it, and add a few lumps of pure ice. 
This should be used as soon as it is made. 



12. Capillaire Syrup. 

Take an ounce of capillaire leaves, and put them to a 
pint of boiling water ; let them infuse twelve hours on a hot 
hearth, then strain the liquor through a tammy, and add 
to it a syruj) made Avith a pound of sugar and a large glass 
of Avater. i)o not let it boil till all is mixed ; take it oft', 
pour it into a jar, coA'cr this closely, and let it stand on a 
hot hearth for three days ; then bottle for use. 

DD 



450 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

13. Lemon or Orange Shrub. 

Take two lemons and six Seville oranges, or, if preferred, 
eight sweet oranges without lemons, grate oif the rinds 
and squeeze out the juice, then for each quart of juice 
add three pounds of powdered loaf-sugar. Stir the sugar 
till jit is dissolved, and add two quarts of best Jamaica 
rum for each quart of juice. Pour the mixture into a 
cask, and shake it three times a day for three Aveeks. 
Let it stand in a cool place till clear. Then filter, and 
bottle for use. 



14. Lemon Syllabub. 

Strain the juice of five lemons over the rind of two. 
Add half a pound of loaf-sugar, and let remain for an 
hour or two. Add a pint of thick cream and half a pint 
of sherry or raisin wine, strain, and then whisk until 
the mixture is well frothed. Pour the syllabub into glasses, 
and let it stand ten or twelve hours before being served. 
The whisking takes thirty or forty minutes. 



15. Lemon "Whey. 

Put a quart of milk into a saucepan. When it boils, 
pour in four tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice : add more if 
this does not effectually turn the milk. Let it boil up, 
then put it in a bowl to settle ; strain and sweeten, and 
add a little hot Avater if the Avhey is too acid to be agree- 
able. 



ICES AXD DlilXKS. 451 

16. Lemonade, Effervescing. 

Boil two pounds of loaf sugar in a jiint of strained lemon- 
juice until the sugar is dissolved. Pour the syrup out, 
and when it is cold, put it into bottles and cork closely. 
When wanted for use, put a tablespoonful into a tumbler 
three-parts full of cold wat«r ; stir- in briskly twenty grains 
of carbonate of soda, and drink during efiervescence. 



17. Lemonade, Still. 

Boil a quart of water with three-quarters of a pound 
of loaf-sugar, and pour the syrup over the rind of six 
lemons. Let them soak for two or three hours. Add 
the strained juice of the lemons and two quarts of Avater. 
Pass the whole through a jelly-bag, and serve in glass jugs. 



18. Persian Sherbet. 

Pick a pound of ripe strawberries, and bruise them 
"well with the back of a wooden spoon. Put them into a 
basin, with a fresh lemon cut into thin slices, and a tea- 
spoonful of orange-flower water; and pour over them a 
quart of cold water. Let them remain for three hours, 
then strain the liquid through muslin, and squeeze the 
fruit well, to make it yield as much juice as possible. Mix 
with the juice a pound of refined loaf sugar, and stu' it 
until the sugar is dissolved; then strain it again, and place 
the vessel containing the sherbet on ice until it is wanted 
for use. 

Another Way. 

Mix two ounces of bi-carbonate of soda with two ounces 
of tartaric acid and four ounces of powdered loaf sugar. 
DD 2 



452 THE THOBOUGn GOOD COOK. 

Flavour tlie mixture with thirt}- drops of the essence of 
lemon, and add two or three drops of any slight perfume. 
Keep the powder in a closely-stoppered bottle. When wanted 
for use, mix a teaspoonful in half a tumbler of water. 



19. Turkish Sherbet. 

Boil two pounds of loaf-sugar with a pint and a half 
of water to a clear syrup. Skim carefully, and pour it into 
a bowl. When cold, stir it into a pint and a half of strained 
lemon-juice, and one quart of white veal stock, clear and 
strong. Serve in glasses. 



20. Coffee, Francatelli's Way. 

The simplest, the easiest, and the most effectual means 
to produce Avell-made coffee is to procure a percolator. 
Put the coffee in the well, place the perforated presser 
upon it, and then pour in the boiling water gently and 
gradually, until the quantity required is completed; put 
the lid on the percolator, and set it by the fire to run 
through. By strict attention to the foregoing instructions, 
excellent coffee will be produced in a few minutes — the 
proportions being one ounce of coffee to a large breakfast- 
cup of water. (See also p. 68.) 



21. Coffee, Soyer's Way. 

Choose the coffee of a very nice brown colour, but not 
black (which would denote that it was burnt, and impart 
a bitter flavour) ; grind it at home, if possible, as you may 
then depend upon the quality ; if ground in any quantit}^ 



ICES AND BRINKS. 453 

keep it in a jar carefully covered. To make a pint, put 
two ounces into a stew-pan, or small iron or tin saucepan, 
whicli set dry upon a moderate fire, stirring the coffee with 
a wooden spoon until it is quite hot through, but not in 
the least burnt ; should the fire be very fierce, Avarm it by 
degrees, taking it off every now and then until hot (which 
would not be more than two minutes) ; then pour over a 
pint of boiling water, cover close, and let it stand by the 
side of the fire (but not to boil) for five minutes ; next strain 
it through a cloth or a piece of thick gauze, rinse out the 
saucepan, pour the coffee (which w411 be quite clear) back 
into it, place it upon the fire. When nearly boiling, serve 
with hot milk if for breakfast, but with a drop of cold milk 
or cream if for dinner. 



22. Caf6 au Lait. 

Have a clean French coffee filter ready on the hot range; 
w^eigh out four and a half ounces of freshly ground coffee ; 
put the coffee on the filter, with the small strainer over, 
then pour on gradually half a pint of boiling water; let 
it rest for three minutes, then gradually pour over two pints 
and a half more of boiling water (taking special care that 
under no circumstances should the coffee be allowed to 
boil again after the water has been poured over). When all 
has drij)ped through, pour it into a hot coffee-pot. Take 
three pints of freshly and thoroughly heated but unboiled 
milk, pour it into a hot pitcher, send to table with six hot 
cups, into Avhich cup half coffee and half milk should be 
poured. 

23. Cafe an Lait, French Fashion. 

To a pint of coffee, made as directed in No. 22, add a 
pint of boiling milk, warm both together until nearly boiling, 



^U THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

mid serve. The French never use coffee any other way 
for breakfast. 



24. White Coffee. 

Put two ounces of imgrouncl coffee, shghtly roasted, mto 
a clean stew-pan, which set upon a moderate fire, slowly 
warming the coffee through, shaking the stew-pan round for 
half a minute ; when very hot, which you will perceive by 
the smoke arising from it, pour over half a pint of boiling 
water, cover the stew-pan well, and let it infuse by the side 
of the fire for fifteen minutes ; then add half a pint of boil- 
ing hot milk, pass the coffee through a small, fine sieve 
into the coffee-pot or jug, and serve with white sugar- 
candy or crystallised sugar. This method, which I borrow 
from Soyer, is, as 3'ou will perceive, a great novelty ; but if 
by neglect you let the coffee get black, or the least burnt, 
do not attempt to make use of it : it should only be 
sufficiently charred to break easily into a mortar if required. 



455 



Section XVI.— MISCELLANEOUS. 



1. Sausages. 

Take three pounds of nice pork, fat and lean together, 
without skin or gristle ; chop it as fine as possible, season 
it with a teaspoonful of beaten pe23per, and two of salt, some 
sage shredded fine (about three teaspoonfuls) ; mix well to- 
gether. Have the sausage-skins very nicely cleaned, and fill 
them, but not too full, as the meat swells when cooked, and is 
apt to burst the skins. 



2. Bologna Sausages. 

For ten pounds of the lean of the very best pork allow tAvo 
pounds of solid fat. Mince them aj^art ; chop the fat the 
size of large peas, and mince the lean to a j^aste. Some of 
these sausages are made with both fat and lean minced 
together, but not to a paste. The seasoning for every twelve 
pounds of meat must be : — Six ounces of salt, one ounce 
of coarsely ground pej^per, and a quarter of an ounce of salt- 
petre. Half a drachm of cloves, or a drachm of pimento, 
is, by many, ground fine with the pepper. Mix the seasoning, 
and strew it in the lean while mincing. When fat and 
lean are minced small enough, mix them together with a 
wooden spoon. Fill ox-skins very carefully, being sure there 
are no air-spaces left ; where these are suspected, prick 
through with a long darning needle ; have this at hand, 
threaded, the thread tied in a knot, that the needle may 



456 THE TEOEOUGH GOOD COOK. 

not get lost in tlie using. If to be sliced raw, the sausages 
must hang a few weeks first. If to be cooked, put them on 
the fire in cold water, and let them come slowly to a 
simmer, which does not require to be continued longer 
than an hour. They may then be hung to dry, and may be 
cut in a day or two. Keep white paper tied over the cut 
ends'. In many parts these sausages are made to look a 
deeper red thus: — Catch the blood at killing time, and while 
it is warm, stir enough salt in it to salt it well, and keep 
stirring till it is cold. Add any approved quantity to the 
lean while mincing. The blood gives firmness, colour, and 
richness to the sausagfes. 



3. Lyons Sausage?, 

Take six pounds of lean pork from the chine, three 
pounds of lean veal from the fillet, and three pounds of 
pork fat. Mince the lean meat fine, pound it in a mortar 
till smooth, and cut the fat into dice. Mix thoroughly, 
and season the wdiole with ten ounces of salt, a quarter of 
an ounce of saltpetre, three or four bruised shallots, half 
an ounce of ground pepper, and a quarter of an ounce of 
peppercorns. Leave the mixture for twenty-four hours. Pro- 
cure some sausage skins, and carefully examine them to see 
that they are thoroughly cleansed; press the meat tightly 
into them, and fasten the ends securely with string. Lay the 
sausages in an earthen pan with salt, with a small portion of 
saltpetre under and over them, and let them remain for a 
week ; take them out, and dry them in a smoke-house or in a 
chimney over a wood fire. Boil three or four bay-leaves, a 
sprig of thyme, and a few sage leaves in some wine-lees, 
if procurable. Dif) the sausages into this, tie the ends with 
fresh string, and again dry them. Wrap them in paper, and 
store in a dry cool place till wanted. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 457 

4. St. Germaius Pudding. 

Cut eight or ten onions into dice, and simmer them slowly 
in a quarter of a pound of lard ; when done, take them from 
the fire, add to them half a pint of cream, a pint of hog's 
blood, the yolks of some eggs, two pounds of bacon cut into 
dice, salt, and spices ; mix these ingredients together well, 
put them into skins, and finish like black-puddings. 



5. Italian Cheese. 

Chop up together three pounds of calves' or pigs' liver, 
two pounds of bacon, half a pound of fat of bacon, some 
parsley, chives, salt, pepper, spice, thyme ; a bay-leaf, sage, 
and garlic chopped up separately. Line the bottom of the 
saucepan or mould with thin slices of bacon or of pork ; 
cover these three fingers deep with forcemeat,, then with 
slices of bacon, and so on till the mould is nearly full ; then 
cover the wdiole with slices of bacon and bake it three hours ; 
let it get cold, then Avarm the mould that you may take 
it out whole. Dress and garnish it with jelly, sweet herbs, 
the yolks of some eggs chopped up, etc. 



6. American Breakfasts. 

The following articles are popular in spring and summer 
for breakfast on the other side of the Atlantic : — Veal cutlets ; 
stewed or fried clams ; cold boiled ham or tonofue ; clam 
fritters ; broiled shad ; broiled and fried fish ; stewed or broiled 
chickens ; minced veal ; pickled salmon ; fried sweet pota- 
toes ; fried egg-plant ; green corn fritters ; stewed pigeons ; 
broiled or sliced raw tomatoes ; fish-balls ; cucumbers ; pepper 
grass ; cresses ; robins on toast ; eggs ; omelettes of all kinds ; 



458 TEE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

tongue or ham toast ; rice cakes ; batter cakes ; ripe fruits ; 
jam and marmalade ; buckwlieat cakes, piled one on the 
other till a miniature Eiffel Tower is formed, with plenty 
of butter between each layer, and maple syrup poured over 
the whole. 

Mem. — Americans at home generally begin breakfast with a 
glass of iced water and a large Havana orange. 



7. Mexican Omelette. 

Have half a pound of smooth sauce (p. 347) in a saucepan, 
place it on a moderate fire, add a piece of butter the size 
of half an Qgg, twelve shelled and cooked shrimps, and 
season with a little salt and a very little pepper. Let it 
cook for two minutes, stirring it lightly; then add a quarter 
of a good-sized emptied and peeled green pepper, finely 
mashed; cook for one minute longer, then let it rest on 
the corner of the stove. Make an omelette with six eggs, 
fold up the opposite side, pour half of the preparation into 
the centre, fold the other end up, and garnish both sides 
with more shrimps, pouring the balance around the dish ; 
then send to the table. 



8. Stuffed Egg Fruit. 

Take a few of the egg fruits, cut off the ends, divide 
them in halves, scoop out the interior, salt them, 
and let them remain for an hour. C*hop up some onions 
and fry them nearly black, add garlic and sage leaves, a 
couple of minced tomatoes, pepper and salt, and let the 
whole brown in the oven. Stuff the " eggs " Avith this 
mixture, having first washed the salt from them, and dip 
them in oil. Then place them in a stewpan with a little 



MISCELLANEOUS. 459 

broAvn gravy and braise tliem, or roast tliem in the oven 
in oiled paper cases. 



9. Fried Egg-Plant. 

Peel one medium sized egg-plant, cut it into six round 
slices, about lialf an inch in thickness, and season with 
half a teaspoonful of pepper. Dip the pieces in beaten 
egg and in fresh bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat 
for five minutes. Remove, salt slightly again, and drain 
them well; serve on a hot dish over a folded napkin. 



10. Celery Porridge. 

Cut some celery and endive small, and stew them well 
in some vegetable broth; when quite tender, add a little 
butter browned, and a little flour, if requisite ; stew ten 
minutes longer, and serve up with fried sippets of bread. 



11. Plour Porridge. 

Boil one pint of milk, reserving two tablespoonfuls to 
mix with one ounce of flour ; stir this into the boiling milk, 
adding half a saltspoonfid of salt ; boil gently ten minutes, 
and serve with suear or treacle. 



12. Hominy Porridge. 

Wash the hominy clean, and boil it with sufiicient 
water to cover it. It should boil from two to five hours 



460 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

over a very slow fire. Eat it Avith butter and molasses, 
or with sugar and milk. It is considered extremely wliole- 
some food, especially for children and delicate persons. 

AnotJier Way. 

Take one pint of hominy, three pints of milk, and a 
quarter of an ounce of salt. Steej^ the hominy in water 
twelve hours ; then pour off the water not absorbed ; add 
the milk and salt, and set the whole in a slow oven for 
two hours, till all the milk is absorbed; pour into saucers 
and serve Avith treacle and milk. 



13. Lentil Porridge. 

Take three tablespoonfuls of lentil flour, one saltspoonful 
of salt, and one pint of water. Mix the flour with the water 
and salt, and boil ten minutes, stirrinsf all the time. 



14. Milk Porridge. 

To a pint and a half of new milk put half a pint of water ; 
set it on the fire, and Avhen just ready to boil, stir in about a 
dessertspoonful of oatmeal and a little salt mixed to a paste 
with water; cut some bread into small jjieces, j^nt it into 
basins, and pour the boiling milk upon it. 



15. Oatmeal Porridge. 

Twelve ounces of meal, half an ounce of salt, and three 
pints of water. Dissolve the salt in the boiling water ; add 



MISCELLANEOUS. 461 

the meal, previously rubbed smooth in a little cold water, 
and allow the whole to boil gently all over the surface 
about tAventy minutes ; pour it into soup plates, and serve 
with sweet milk, cream, or syrup. 



16. Sago Porridge. 

Take four tablespoonfuls of sago, one saltspoonful of salt, 
and one quart of water. Soak the sago in cold water a 
few minutes, and boil it gently about an hour, adding the 
salt ; pour into soup plates, and serve with molasses or sugar. 



17. Sago and Rice Porridge. 

This you make the same way as sago porridge, but 
using half the quantity of sago, with as much rice. 



18. Wheatmeal Porridge. 

To one quart of boiling water add a teaspoonful of 
salt ; stir in gradually half a pound of wheatmeal ; boil ten 
minutes, and serve with milk or treacle. 



19. Sowins. 

One pound and a half of fine oatmeal, one tablespoonful 
of white sugar, and a little salt. Steep the oatmeal in cold 
water twenty-four hours, then pour off the water ; add the 
same quantity of fresh Avater, and let it remain the same 
length of time ; strain through a fine hair-sieve ; put the meal 



462 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

ill a saucepan, adding tlie sugar, and let it boil till it becomes 
about the consistence of hasty pudding, stirring constantly. 
Pour it on a dish, and serve with inilk or cream, and susfar or 
treacle. 



20. Scotch Sowins. 

Mix two pounds and a half of coarse oatmeal with a 
pint of buttermilk, and five pints of lukewarm water ; cover 
it, place it a little distance from the fire, let it remain 
thirty-six hours ; pour off the liquid, and add more water, 
changing the water two succeeding days ; then put some 
of the meal into a hair-sieve, adding plenty of water, and 
knocking the sieve with the hand to make the finer particles 
of oatmeal pass through the coarser part. Again let it 
remain eight or ten hours ; then pour off the water, and 
put the remainder into a pan lined with earthenware, adding 
salt, and water sufficient to make it about the thickness 
of oatmeal porridge ; stir it constantly while on the fire, 
and let it boil till it becomes smooth. 



21. Mush. 

Stir Indian meal into boiling water, by degrees, with a 
mush stick, addins^ a little salt. Let it boil thick, then 
allow it to simmer slowly till it is sufficiently cooked ; three 
or four hours' simmering will not be at all too lonsf. 



22. Kedgeree. 

First steep half a pint of split dlial or of dry split peas 
in water; add half a pound of picked and washed rice, 
with a little ginger, mace, and salt ; boil till the peas or 



MISCELLANEOUS. 463 

cllial and the rice are swollen and tender ; stir the whole, 
and mix in a little butter or ghee ; strain off the water. 
Have ready some hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, and an 
onion or two sliced and fried in ghee to garnish with ; or 
add small boiled onions. • Dhal, I may mention, is a kind 
of vetch, native to India ; ghee is the native name for stale 
butter clarified by boiling and straining. 

06s. — To be well dressed, the dhal and rice should 
not be clammy. 



23. Prumenty. 

Take some good white wheat : just wet it a little ; put 
it into a coarse bao- and beat it with a stick till the 
external husk is sutficiently loose to be rubbed off: then 
Avash it well, changing the water five or six times, till 
perfectly free from loose bran. Next put it into a stew- 
pot with plenty of water ; cover, and set it in the oven 
till the wheat is quite soft; when it is cold, it will be 
quite a jell}'. When required for use, put as much of the 
wheat with milk into a pan as will make it about the 
consistence of rich milk, stirring it constantly with a wooden 
slice or spoon, and mashing the wheat, it being liable to 
burn ; when near boilmg, stir in a small portion of flour 
mixed till smooth with a little milk, adding sugar, grated 
nutmeg, and a little salt. When it boils it will be ready. 
Frumenty may be thickened with the yolks of eggs, beaten 
with a little milk instead of flour; currants or sultana 
raisins, picked and Avashed, may also be added. 



24. Green Corn Omelette. 

Grate the corn from twelve ears, boiled ; beat up 
five eggs ; stir them Avith the corn, season Avith pepper 



464 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

and salt, and fry the mixture brown, browning the top with 
a hot shovel. If fried in small cakes, with a little flour 
and milk stirred in to form a batter, green corn is very nice. 



1 25. Green Corn Pudding. 

Twelve ears of green corn, grated; a quart of milk; four 
ounces of butter; the same of siisrar; four egs^s beaten 
lightly. Bake in a buttered dish, and eat with butter and 
sugar sauce. The corn may be previously boiled, when 
the pudding will bake more quickly. 



26. Corn Pie. 

This recipe comes from the Palace Hotel, San Francisco, 
and it will serve as a very nice English breakfast dish. Four 
ears of cold boiled corn (canned Indian corn can be procured 
at a well-known establishment for comestibles in Piccadilly), 
two eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, one of flour, some 
milk, half a teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper. Cut the corn 
from the cobs ; mix the milk gradually with the pepper ; beat 
the yolks and whites of the eggs separately, and add them 
and the other ingredients to the flour and milk. Bake twenty 
minutes in a shallow pie -dish. 



27. Succotash. 

Succotash is made by boiling young Lima beans with 
green corn cut from the cob. A slice of fat pork may be 
boiled with the mixture, and it must have a lump of butter 
stirred in before serving. The beans should be boiled before 
the corn is added, as they take longer to cook. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 465 

28. Hopping John. 

{A Carolina Dish.) 

This is made by boiling a kind of small bean, called 
cow-peas in the Southern States, with an equal quantity of 
rice, and sending them, mixed and lubricated with butter, 
hot to the table. 



29. Hasty Pudding. 

Put four bay-leaves into a quart of milk, and set it on the 
fire to boil. Then beat up the yolks of two eggs with a little 
salt. Take a small quantity of the milk, and beat up with 
your eggs ; remove the bay-leaves, and stir up the remainder 
of your milk. Then, with a Avooden spoon in one hand and 
flour in the other, stir this mixture in till the whole is of a 
good thickness, but not too thick. Let it boil, and keep it 
stirring ; then pour it into a dish, and stick pieces of butter 
in different places. Before you stir in the flour, be sure 
to take out the bay-leaves. 



. Greengages, Bottled. ^ 

Choose perfectly sound greengages, gathered on a dry 
day before they are fully ripe. Put them into wide-mouthed 
bottles, and fill these with syrup, made by boiling a pint 
of water Avith a pound of sugar for four or five minutes. 
Cork securely, and put them up to their necks m a large 
pan of cold water, with straw between the bottles to prevent 
their cracking. Brmg the contents of the pan slowly to a 
boil; after boiling, simmer gently for a quarter of an hour; 
leave them until cold, seal the corks securely, and keep the 
bottles in a cool place, with the necks dowuAvards. If there 
is any leakage the fruit must be used at once if there is 
none, it will keep for years. 

EE 



466 THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 

81. Fluius, Preserved. 

Take fine ripe plums. Pare tlicin, and in order to do 
tliis more easily, throw tliem into boiling water for a minute ; 
if tliey are not fully ripe, they will need to simmer gently 
for two or three minutes. Allow a pound of sugar for each 
poi\nd of fruit. Dissolve this in a little Avater, skim the water, 
and boil it till it is almost a candy. Throw in the plums, 
and let them boil gently for a quarter of an hour. Lift 
them out carefully, strain the syrup over them, and let 
them lie for two days. Boil them again till they look quite 
clear, put them into jars, cover with syrup, tic the jars up, 
and store in a cool, dry place. 



32. Cherries, Preserved in Syrvip. 

Choose light, sound cherries. Kemove the stones with- 
out injuring the fruit, which may be done by drawing them 
out with the stalk, or pushing them out at one end with 
a bodkin or quill. Allow a pint and a half of water and 
a pound of sugar for every pound of fruit, weighed after it 
has been stoned. Put the sugar and water into a preserving 
pan, and let it boil for a quarter of an hour, skimming it 
carefully ; then throw in the fruit and let it boil for another 
quarter of an hour. Pour it with the S3a-up into a large 
jar, and let it remain till next day, when the cherries must 
be put into a sieve to drain. Allow a pint of white 
currant juice for every four pounds of cherries. The juice 
and the syrup must be boiled together fifteen minutes, 
when the cherries may be put in and boiled again for 
four or five minutes. Put the cherries into jars, cover them 
with the syrup, lay brandy papers on the top, and tie 
down closely. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 467 

83. Strawberries, Preserved. 

Take perfectly sound ripe strawberries which have been 
gathered in dry weather; pick and weigh them. Put them 
in layers on a large dish, and sprinkle finely-powdered sugar 
between the layers : a pound of sugar will be required for 
every pound of fruit. Let them stand all night. Next, put 
the whole gently into a clean preserving-pan. Let it boil ; 
shake the pan to prevent the strawberries from burning, 
and pass a spoon round the edges ; but be careful not to 
crush the fruit. Remove the scum as it rises, and boil 
gently for a quarter of an hour. Drain the juice from 
the fruit, and boil the juice separately for half an hour. If 
liked, a pint of red-currant juice boiled to syrup with half a 
pound of sugar may be added for each pound of strawberries, 
and this will greatly improve the flavour of the prepara- 
tion. Pour the boiling juice upon the fruit, and boil the 
mixture for a quarter of an hour, or till the juice will set, 
when a little is put upon a plate. Put the preserved fruit 
into jars, cover in the usual way, and store in a cool place. 
Strawberries preserved like this are very good served in 
glasses with cream. 



34. To Prepare Fruit for Children. 

A far more wholesome Avay than to use fruit in pies 
and puddings is to put apples sliced, or plums, currants, 
etc., into a stone jar, and sprinkle them with as much 
.sugar as necessary, setting the jar in an oven or on the 
hearth, with a teacupful of water to prevent the fruit from 
burning, or putting the jar into a saucepan of water till 
the contents be perfectly done. 



EE 2 



INDEX TO RECIPES. 



Allemande Sauce, 333 
Almoud Cheese Cakes, 402 
,, Cream Ice, 447 
,, Custard, 416 
„ Paste, 402 

Puddings, 402, 403 
,, Wafers, 403 
Alose, 171 

Amber Puddinjj, 404 
American Breakfasts, 457 
Anchovies, Mock, 199 

,, iN'orwegian Fashiou, 381 

Anchovy Butter, 326 

,, Canapes, 381 
Angelica Tart, 404 
Angels on Horseback, 186 
Apple Biscuits, 405 
,, Charlotte, 405 
„ Pudding, 405, 406 
Apples, Rice and, 439 

,, Stuffed, Compete of, 412 
Apricot Cream Ice, 448 

Pudding, 406 
Artichoke Pie, 372 
Artichokes i la St. Cloud, 371 
,, Bordeaux Fashion, 372 
,, Jerusalem, 373 
Asparagus in Cream, 371 
,, in Croustade, 370 
,, Forced, 370 

,, Green, Soup, 88 

,, ItaUan Fasliion, 370 

,, Ragout of, 371 

,, Tips, Soup of , 89 
Aspic, Clear, 233 
„ Cutlets in, 226 
,, Jelly, 232, 233 
Aurora Soup, 84 
Austrian Soup, 134 
Autumn Soup, 81 

B 

Bacon, Beans and, 221 
„ Praise, 221 

,, or Ham, Bean Souj) with, 94 
,, Liver and, 288 
,, Omelette with, 237 



Bacon, Peas and, 221 
Baked Beans, 365 
,, Cod, 159 
,, Custard, 416 
,, Dublin Bay Haddock, 168 
,, Haddock. 159 
,, Mackerel, 172 
,, Miucemeat Kebob, 311 
,, Pike, 195 
,; Salmon, 146 
,, Sprats, 201 
Bakewell Pudding, 407 
Banbury Cake, 407 

Barlev Broth, Scotch, with Boiled Beef 
or Mutton, 128 
,, Pudding, 407 
Basis of Fish Soups, The, 97 
Battalia Pie, 321 
Batter for Frying, 205 
Bean Soup with Ham or Bacon, 94 
Beans and Bacon, 221 
,, Baked, 365 
., Parsnips with, 360 
., a la Poulette, 365 
„ Puree of White, 120 
Bearded Oj'sters, 186 
Buaruaise Sauce, 326 
Becliamel Sauce, 327 
Beef Balls, 303 

Boiled, Gratin of, 307 

Bouilli, 307 

a la Braise, 305 

Braised, 230 

Broth, 77 

and Cabbage Soup, 114 

Chateaubriand Steak, 302 

Collops (Scotch) with Onions, 234 

Fillet of, a I'lntendante, 306 

,, ,, Roasted and Larded, 245 
Kidney Pie, 287 
Marrow, Salsafies with, 375 
Minced, 219 

,, with Cucumbers, 219 
a la Mode, 304 
Olives, 304 

and Oyster Sausages, 315 
Palates, Chartreuse with, 220 
Roasted and Larded, 245 



470 



THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 



Beef, Rump of, to Boil (French Fashion), 
308 
,, Scarlet, 308 
,, Short, or Spiced, 305 
„ Steak, Saute, 302 
„ „ Pie, 303 

,, Stewed, 307 
„ Tea, 78 

,, Vinaigrette of, 308 
Beetroot, Fricassee of, 376 
BeneAictiue Soup Maigre, 90 
Berlin Pancakes, 432 
Biscuits, Apple, 405 
,, Cocoa, 412 
,, Devilled, 387 
Bisque of Crayfish, 99 
Black Butter, French Beans in, 363 

,, Sauce, 327 

Blanche Sauce, 327, 328 
Boar's Head, Wild, 229 
Boiled Beef, Gratiu of, 307 
,, ,, Rump of, 308 
,, Calf's Head, Plain, 228 
„ Cod's Head, l.)7 
,, Knuckle of Veal, 295 
,, Lamb, 228 
,, Tripe, 298 
Bologna Sausages, 455 
Boned Hare, 291 
Bonne Bouches, 385 
" Borsch" Soup, 4 
Bottled Greengages, 465 
Bouillabaisse of Fresh-Water Fish, 193 
Braised Beef, 230 
„ Fowl, 207 
,, Leg of Mutton, 312 
,, Lettuce Soup, 93 
,, Partridge, with Celery Sauce, 269 
Bread-crumbed Mutton Cho^JS, 301 
Bread-crumbs, to Fry, 141 
Bread Pudding, Brown, 408 
,, Sauce, 328 
„ Soup, 128 
Breakfast, Kedgeree for, 200 
Breast of Mutton, Grilled, 312 

,, of Veal a la Poulette, 294 
Bretonne Mutton Chops, 300 

Sauce, 328 
Brewis, 235 
Brill, 168 
Broccoli, Green, Cauliflower and Parsley 

Soup, 94 
Broiled Caqi with Caper Sauce, 192 
,, Eels, 177 
,, Eels al'Italienue, 178 
,, Grouse, with Bacon, 276 
,, Oj'sters, 183 
,, Mackerel, 173 
,. Partridge, 270 



Broiled, Pork Chops, 301 

,, Salmon, Crimped, Slices of, with 

Cai:)er Sauce, 144 
„ Shad, 171 

„ ,, alaMaitre d"H(")te], 172 

,, Sheep's Kidueys, 287 
,, Sprats, 200 
„ Whiting?, 164 
Broth, Beef, 77 
,, Chicken, 79 

,, ,, for the Consumptive, 80 

,, Scotch Barlej', with Boiled Beef 

or Mutton, 128 
,, Sheep's Head, 108 
„ Veal, 79 
Brown Bread Pudding, 403 
,, Chaudfroid Sauce, 329 
,, Fricasseed Chicken, 260 
,, ,, Rabbit, 260 

,, Gravy Sauce, 329 
,, Italian Sauce, 330 
,, Poivrade, 330 
,, Roux, 352 
,, Sauces, 329-331 
,, Soup, French, 81 
„ Scotch, 113 
Brunoise Souji, 81 
Brussels Sprouts and Cucumbers, 338 

„ Soup, 84 
Bubljle and Squeak, 320 
Buns, Little, 408 
Burnt Cream in Moulds, 413 
Butter, Anchovy, 326 
,, Black, 327 
„ Curled, 387 
,, Hazel-Nut, 387 
,, Maitre d'HOtel, 174 
,, Montpelier, 339 
Buttered Loaves, 408 

C 
Cabbage Pudding, 357 

„ Soup, 92 
Cabbages, Ragout of, 357 
Cabillaud a la Bechamel, 1 60 
Cabinet Pudding, 428 
Cafe au Lait, 453 

,, ,, French Fashion, 453 
Caisses of Larks, 265 
Cake, Banbury, 407 

,, Cheese, 402, 409, 410 

„ Fish, 298 

„ Plain Fruit, 409 

„ Pork, 320 

,, Potato, 361 

,, ,, Cheese, 363 

,, White, 444 
Calabriau Soup, 133 
Calecannon, 357 



INDEX TO RECIPES. 



471 



Calf's Head, Boiled, 228 
Hashed, 317 
Calves' Feet, 295 

,, au Naturel, 296 

,, Fried (.sw Sheep's Trotters, 

Fried) 
Canapes, Auchovy, 382 
,, for Grouse, 278 
,, Madison, 44 

a la Turbigo, 333 
Cauvas-Back Ducks, Roasted, 2G4 
Caper Sauce, Wliite, 3r51 
Capillaire Syrup, 449 
Capilotade of Duck, 262 

,, of Plovers. 26S 

Capon, Larded with Liniius, to Boil, 257 
,, a la Xautaise, 2)7 
,, a la Turque, 2.56 
Carbonnade of Mutton, 309 
Cardinal Sauce, 330 
Carp au Bleu au Court BoTiillon, 193 
,, Broiled, with Caper Sauce, 192 
„ to Stew, 194 
Carrier Sauce, 331 
Carrot Pie, 366 

,, Soup, Young, 85 
Casserole of Rice, 238 
Cassoulic, 319 
Cauliflower au Gratin, 3.56 

,, Green Broccoli, and Parsley 

Soup, 94 
,, Loaf, 354 

Soup, 94 
Cauliflowers, 353, 354 

,, and Butter, 354 

,, Genoan Fashion, 355 

,, a la Mayonnaise, 355 

,, a la Reiue, 355 

Caveach Salmon, 143 
Caviare, Little Crusts of, 386 
Celery Porridge, 459 
,, Puree of, 374 
Champagne Sauce, 331 
Chantilly Basket, 409 
Chartreuse mth ]3eef Palates, 220 
Chateaubriand Steak, 302 
Chaudfroid of Partridges, Salmi, 272 

Cheese : — 

Cakes, 64, 402, 409, 410 

,, Potato, 363 
and Eggs, 401 
Cod with, 162 
Fondue of, 401 
Fritters, 410 
as Iced Butter, 399 
Imps, 399 
Italian, 457 
and Macaroni Croquettes, 400 



Cheese (contbine:!) : — 

a la Montmorency, 398 
Potted, 398 
Ranaequins, 400 
Soup, 65 

,, alaBiberon, 130 
,, German, 131 
Stewed, 397 
Straws, 399 
Toasted, 397 
Welsh Rarebit, 397 
Cherries, Pi-eserved in Syrup, 466 
Chestnut Nesselrode Soup, 129 

„ PudcUng, 410, 411 
Chicken Broth, 79 

,, ,, for the Consumptive, 80 

,, Brown Fricasseed, 260 
, , Cutlets, Epigram of, 203 
,, Fricassee of, 260 
Fritters, 419 
tl la Girenflot, 256 
, , a la Marengo, 256 
,, Pattieswith Purceala Reine, 203 
., Pie, 261 

Pot-Pie, 262 
,, Pudding, 261 
,, Puddings a la Richelieu, 253 
., „ dl'Ude, 257 

;, Salad, 378 
,, in Savoury Jelly, 208 
,, "VVliite Fricasseed, 260 
Chickens with Macedoine of Spi-ing 
Roots, 207 
,, Souffle of, a la Creme, 259 
Children, Currant Juice Souj) for, 136 
Chocolate Cream Ice, 448 

„ Puffs. 411 
Chops, Lamb, Maison d'Or, 300 
,, Lamb and Pork, 224 
,, Mutton, 300 

,, Mutton, Bread- Crumbed, 301 
,, Mutton, Bi-etonne, 300 
,, Pork, Broiled, 301 
,, Soyer, ^^^th Potatoes, 301 
Chowder, Fish, 105 
Cider Cup, 449 
Clear Aspic, 233 
Clotted Cream, 414 
Cock-a-Leekie, 92 
Cocoa Biscuits, 412 
Cocoa-nut Soup, 130 
Cod, to Bake, 159 

with Cheese, 162 
with Oyster Sauce, 160 
Scollops of, 162 
to Stew, 159 
with White Sauce. 160 
Salt, a la Bonne Femme, 161 
,, a la Maitre d'Hotel, 160 



472 



TEE THOBOUGR GOOD COOK. 



Cod. Salt, with Parsuii)S, 162 

,. ,, a la Proveu(;aIe, IGl 
Cocrs Head, to Boil, loT 

,, ,, and Shoulders, 158 
Coffee, Cream, 413, 414 

,, Francatelli's "Wav, 452 
„ Souffle, 412 
,, Soyer's Wa}', 452 
,, ^Yhite, 454 
Cold Soup. 137 
Collar Salmon, to, 141 
Collops of Eels a la Poulette, 180 

,, Broiled a la Tartare, 179] 
',, Scotch Beef, \yith Onions, 234 
,, Minced, 234_ 
Colouring Purees Green, 352 
,, Sauces Green, 352 

Compote of Quails, 209 

„ of Stuffed Apples, 412 
Conger Eel. 182 

Soup, 104 
Consomme Stock, 77 
Com Pie, 464 
Conicd-Beef Hash, 318 
Cornucopias a la Creme, 412 
Coup Jack, 413 
Cowslip Pudding, 413 
CraL Omelette, 189 
Crayiish, Bisque of, 99 
\, Pudding, 192 
Cream Burnt in Moulds, 413 
,, Coffee, 413, 414 
,, Devonshii-e (or Clotted), 414 
,, for Haddock Pudding, to Pre- 
pare, 169 
,, Italian. 414 
,, Orange, without Cream, 415 
,, Pancakes, 433 
,, Pineapple, with Jam, 415 
Cream Ice : 

Almond, 447 
Ayiricot, 448 
Chocolate, 448 
Lemon, 446 
Orange, 446 
Pineapple, 447 
Vanilla, 445 
Ciimped Salmon au Xaturel, 144 

,, Skate with Burnt Butter, 202 
Croquettes of Macaroni. 386 
,, of Rahbits. 285 

,, of Sweetbread, 286 

Croustade of Minced Fowl, 251 
Croutes de Caviar, Petites, 386 
Croutons a I'Espagnole, 385 
Crumbed and GriUed Ox-Tail, 297 
Crusts of Sardines, 383 

,, for Thick Soups, 139 
Cucumber Toast, 359 



Cucumber and Pea Souji, 92 
Cucumbers, Brussels Sprouts and, 358 
,, Eagout of, 359, 360 

Stewed, 359 
Curd Pudding, 415 

,, Star, 415 
Curled Butter. 387 
Currant Juice Souji, 136 
Curried Dressed Salmon, 323 
., Drj- Hash, 324 
., Eggs, 389 
,, Fish, 323 
., ,, Soup. 103 

Lobster. 322 
„ Meat, 103 
Oyster. 322 
Salmon, 322 
;, Sole, 322 
Custard, 416 

,, Almond, 416 
„ Baked, 416 

,, Lemon, 417 
Rice, 439 
Cutlets in Aspic, 226 

,, Epigram of Chicken, 208 
,, of Fillets of Fowl, 249 
,, Lamb, en Salpicon, 299 
,, ,. a la Soubise, 299 

,, Pork, and Tomato Sauce, 225 
,, Resurrection, 299 
,, Salmon, 142 

,, of Salmon a la Maitre d'Hotel, 
142 
Veal, 225 
,, ,, a la Mayonnaise, 293 

D 

Derbyshire Pudding, 417 

De%'iried Biscuits, 387 

Whitebait, 166 

Deyoushire Cream, 414 

White-Pot, 417 

Dried Fish Pudding, 197 

Dry Cun-y Hash, 324 

Dubhn Bay Haddock, Baked, 168 

Duck, Capilotade of, 262 
,, with Olives, 263 
,, with Turnips, 263 
,, Canvas-Back, Roasted, 264 
,, Wild, a la Chasseur, 264 

Duke of Cumberland's Pudding, 417 

Dutch Sauce, 331 
„ Pudding, 418 

E 

Eel en Canape, 180 
, Conger, 182 
,, ,, Soup, 104 

,, Larded, 176 



INDEX TO RECIPES. 



473 



Eel Pie, 176 
,, Pudcliug, 181 
Eels, Broiled, 177 

,, a I'ltalienne, 178 
Collops of, a la Poulette, 180 

„ Broiled a la Tartare, 

179 
Conger, 182 
Entree of, 177 
Forcemeat of, 17-1 
Fricassee of, 175 
Fried, 175 
Matelote of, 17o 
to Spitchcock, 178 
to Stew, 179 
Egg Fruit, Stuffed, 458 
. ,, Plant, Fried, 459 
Eggs : — 

with Black Butter, 392 
and Broccoli, 389 
Brouilles, 391 
with Burnt Butter, 390 
in Cases, 392 
and Cheese, 401 
Curried, Bengal Fashion, 389 
Fricasseed, 391 
Frothed, 392 

Gratin of, with Cheese, 393 
Hashed, 392 
Hen's l^est, 393 

with Ouions and Mushrooms, 394 
Oysters and, 187 
Piedmont Fashion, 393 
Plovers', in Aspic, 395 
Eagout of, and Mushrooms, 394 
Baudalled, 390 
Soup with, 136 
"Surprise," 395 
a la Tripe, 390 
ifimince, 254 
English Hare Soup, 123 
,, Mutton-Pie, 314 
Enteees : — 

Aspic, or Savoury Jelly, 232, 233 
Bacon, Beans and, 221 
Fraise 221 
,',' Omelette with, 237 
,, Peas and, 221 
Batter for Frying, 205 
Beans and Bacon, 221 
Beef, Braised, 230 

., Collops, Scotch, 234 
„ Minced, 219 

,, ,, with Cucumbers, 219 
Boiled Lamb, 228 
Braised Beef, 230 
,, Fowl, 207 
Brewis, 235 



Entrees (coiithinrd) : — 

BriU, 168 

Broiled Eels a I'ltalienne, 178 

Calf's Head, Boiled, 228 

Chartreuse with Beef Palates, 220 

Chicken Cutlets, Epigram of, 208 
„ Patties, 208 
„ in Savoury Jelly, 208 

Chickens with Macedoine of Spring 
Koots, 207 

Collops, Scotch Beef, 234 
,, ,, Minced, 234 

Cutlets in Aspic, 226 

Duck, Capilotade of, 262 
,, with Olives, 263 

of Eels, 177 

Fillets of Turbot ii la Creme, 149 

Forcemeat Balls, 204 

Fowl, Braised, 207 
„ Country Captain, 206 
,, Fricassee of, 206 

German Toast, 241 

Gratin of Babbits, 283 

Haggis, Scotch, 235 

Hare, Potted, 214 

Hottentot Pie, 224 

Kiduej-s, Stewed, 226 

Kromeskies a la Monglas, 220 

Lamb, Boiled, 228 

,, and Pork Chops, 224 

Lambs' Tails, Vol-au-Vent of, 229 

Lark Pies, Hot Raised, 265 

Larks in Croustade, 265 

Macaroni, Italian, 249 
,, Leghorn, 240 

Timbale of , 239 

Meagre Eisotto, 239 

Mince of Eabbits au Fumet, 285 

Mutton, Minced, 220 

Neat's Foot Pudding, 232 

Omelette with Bacon, 237 

,, A\ith Fine Herbs, 237 
,, with Kidneys, 237 
Plain, 237 

Ox Tongue, 218 

Panada, French, 241 

Peas and Bacon, 221 

Petites Timballes of Fillets of Tur- 
bot, 152 

Pigeon, Gratin of, 214 

Pigeons a la Crapaudiue, 247 
,, on the Skewer, 248 

Plovers, Capilotade of, 268 

Pork Cutlets aud Tomato Sauce, 225 

Pudding Frauqais, 242 

Puddings of Whiting, 163 

Punshki, 236 

Quails, Compote of, 209 

Queen Blanche Stew, 226 



474 



THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 



Entrees (con fun/a/) :— 

Quenelles of Whitings, 165 
Kabbit Galantine, 211 
,, Gratin of, 283 
,, " Kickshaws " of, 210 
„ I-udiliug, 211 
Eabbits, Mince of, au Fumet, 285 
„ ScolloiJS of, 210 
„ Turban of Fillets of, 212 
,, Young, in Curl Papers, 213 
Raised Ham Pie, 223 
Rice, Casserole of, 238 
Risotto, 239 

,, Meagre, 239 
Rissoles, 227 
Salmon au Bleu, 145 
Salt Cod a la Provenc^ale, 161 
Sausage-Meat, 205 
Scollops of Cod, 162 
Scots Kail, 235 
Sheeps' Trotters, 231 
Sweetbread Pie, 216 
Sweetbreads "Dauphin" Fashion, 
217 
Scollops of, 216, 217 
Tongues with Stewed Endive, 218 
Turbot, Gratin of Fillets of, 150 
Turkey, Galantine of, 213 
Veal Cutlets, 225 
„ and Ham Patties, 223 

, Pie 223 
',' Shoulder of,' 2T1 
Vegetable Hash, 241 
Venison Pie, 215 

Vol-au-Vent d'Escalopes de Tur- 
bot, 151 
,, of Lambs' Tails, 229 

White Puddings in Skins, 238 
Wild Boar's Head, 229 
York Hani with Spinach, 222 

Enteemets : — 

Baked Mincemeat Kebob, 311 
Battalia Pie, 321 
Beef Balls, 303 

,, Boiled, Gratin of, 307 

,, ii la Braise, 305 

,, Bouilli, 307 

„ Fillet of, A I'Inteudante, 306 

,, Kidney Pie, 287 

,, a la Mode, 304 

,, Olives, 304 

,, and Oj'ster S.iusages, 315 

,, Rump of, to Boil, 308 

,, Scarlet, 308 

,, Short, 305 

,, Sijiced, 305 

,, Steak Pie, 303 

,, ,, Saute, with Madeira, 302 



I Enteemets (contunicd) : — 

Beef, Stewed, 307 
,, Vinaigrette of, 308 

Bubble and Squeak, 320 

Calf's Head, Hashed, 317 

Calves' Feet, 295 

,, ,, au Naturel, 296 

Cassoulic, 319 

Chateaubriand Steak, 302 

Chojis, Soyer, with Potatoes, 301 

Corned-Beef Hash, 318 

Fieldfare Pasties, 314 

Foreign Hash, 318 

Hare, Boned, 291 
,, Jugged, 289 
,, Pate, en Terriue, 289 
,, Pie, 290 

Haricot Mutton, 313 

Hessian Stew, 315 

Irish Mutton Stew, 316 

Kidneys, " Tossed " in Wliite Wine, 
287 

Lamb Chops, Maison d'Or, 300 
,, Cutlets en Salpicou, 299 
„ ,, a la Soubise, 299 

Liver and Bacon, 288 

Milk Kebob, 311 

Mutton, Breast of. Grilled, 312 
,, Carbonuade of, 309 
,, Chops, 300 

,, „ Bread-crumbed, 301 

,, ,, Bretoune, 300 

,, Ham, 309 
,, Haricot, 313 
,, Loin of, to Kebob, 310 
,, Leg of, Braised, 312 
„ Pie, EngHsh, 314 
„ Shoulder of, to Stew, 310 

Navarin Stew, 316 

Neat's Tongue au Gratin, 297 

Outlandish Dish, 320 

Ox-Tail, Crumbed and Grilled, 297 

Ox-Tails a la Saint Lambert, 297 

Pepper-Pot, West Indian, 319 

Pork Chops, Broiled, 301 
„ Cake of, 320 

Proven(^al Hotchpotch, 319 

Rabbit Pie, 285 

Rabbits, Croquettes of, 285 

„ Fillets of, a la Pompadour, 

282 
,, Gratin of, 283 
,, Mince of, au Fumet, 285 
,, and Onions, 282 
,, a la Venetienne, 284 
,, White Gibelots of, 284 
,, Young, Fillets of, 286 

Resurrection Cutlets, 299 

Sheei^'s Kidneys, Broiled, 287 



IXDEX TO RECIPES. 



475 



Enteemets (cont'niKcd) : — 

Sheep's Tail a I'Auglaise, 297 

„ Tougues a la Saint Lambert, 

298 
,, Trotters, Fried, 29G 
Skewer Kebob, SIO 
Sweetbread, Croquettes of, 236 
Toad-iu-a-Hole, 319 
Tripe, to Boil, 298 

,, a la Bourgeoise, 299 
Veal, Breast of, a la Poulette, 294 
,, Cutlets a la Mayonnaise, 293 
,, Fillet of, a la Bourgeoise aux 

Petits Pois, 293 
,, ,, to Dress, 293 

,, Knuckle of, Boiled, 29o 
,, Minced, H la Catalan, 295 
,, Neck of, k la Creme, 292 
,, ^, "k la Mirepoix, 291 

,, ,, with Sweet Herbs, 

292 
Venison, 288 

,, Jugged, 288 
Epigram of Chicken Cutlets, 208 
Essence of Mushrooms, 374 



Fieldfare Pasties, 31-4 

Fig Tart, 418 

Fillet of Beef a I'Intendante, 306 

,, ,, Roasted aud Larded, 245 

„ of Veal .\ la Bourgeoise, 293 
„ ,, Italian Way, 293 

Fillets of Fowl, Cutlets of, 248 

,, of Rabbits ^ la Pompadour, 282 

,, of Soles, Fried, 153 

,, ,, au Gratin, 153 

,, ,, ti la Maitre d'Hotel, 154 

,, ,, Mayonnaise of, 154 

„ ,, a I'brlie, 153 

,, of Turbot a la Creme, 149 

,, of Young Rabbits, 286 

,, of Whiting, Broiled, 165 

Financiere pour Yol-au-Veut, 259 

Fish: — 

Alose, 171 

Anchovies, Mock, 199 

Angels on Horseback, 186 

Brill, 168 

Carp, au Bleu, 193 
„ Broiled, 192 
„ Stewed, 194 

Chowder, 105 

Cod, to Bake, 159 
,, to Stew, 159 
,, with Cheese, 162 
,, ,, (Oyster Sauce, 169 
,, ,, White Sauce, 160 



Fish {cont'uiuerJ) : 

Cod, Scollops of, 162 
,, Salt, a la Bonne Femme, 161 
,, ,, ii la Maitre d'Hotel, 160 
,, ,, with Parsnips, 162 
,, ,, a la Provenc^ale, 161 
Cod's Head, 157 

,, ,, aud Shoulders, 153 

Crab Omelette, 189 
Craj'fish Pudding, 192 
Curried Fish, 323 
Eel, Larded, 176 
,, Pie, 176 
„ Pudding, 181 
Eels, Broiled, 177 
,, ,, a ritalienne, 178 

,, en Canape, 180 
,, CoUops of. Broiled, 179 
,, ,, a la Poulette, 180 

,, Conger, 182 
,, Entree of, 177 
,, Forcemeat of, 174 
,, Fricassee of, 175 
,, Fried, 175 
,, Matelote of, 176 
,, to Spitchcock, 178 
,, to Stew, 179 
Flounders Water Souchet, 170 

,, and Plaice, Fricasseed, 
171 
Gurnet, Roast, 2trr~\ 
Haddock, to Bake, 159 -^ 

,, Dublin Bay, Baked, 168 

,, Puddings, '168, 197 

,, ,, Cream for, 169 

Herrings with Mustard Sauce, 169 
John Dory, Boiled, 152 
Lobster B'ulls, 191 

,, a la Braise, 190 
,, to Fricassee, 191 
,, Pie, 190 
,, ii la Soulevard, 191 
,, Mayonnaise, 192 
„ Soup, 99-101 
Mackerel, to Bake, 172 
,, to Broil, 173 

with Brown Butter, 172 
a la Maitre d'Hotel, 173 
,, au Beurre Xoir, 174 

Oyster Fritters, 187 

„ Hatelets, 183, 181 
,, Loaves, 182 
,, Patties, 187^ 
„ Pie, 188 
,, Pudding, 183 
,, Rissoles, 185 
,, Sausages, 184 
,, Soufflus, 184 
Oysters, Bearded, 186 



476 



THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 



Fisn {eoi/fi lined) : — 

Oysters, Broiled. 183 
,, and Eggs, 187 
,, Fried, LS2 
,, Mock, 189 

Pickled, 187 
,, Rissoles of, 185 
,, Eoast, 183 
,, Scolloped, 186 
,, Stewed, 183 
» ,, ;i la Villeroi, 18o 
Pike, Baked, 19.3 
„ Roast, 194 
Puddings, Dried Fish, 197 
Little Fish, 197 
Salt Fish, 199 
Quenelles, 140 

Red Mullets a I'ltalienne, 1G6 
,, ,, a la Ravigote, 167 

,, ,, with Sweet Herbs, 167 

Salmon, Baked, 146 
au Bleu, 145 
,, a la Braise, 148 
Caveach, 143 
to Collar, 141 
,, Crimped, 144 
,, ,, Slices of, 144 

,, Cutlets, 14-2 
,, Fritters. 145 
., a la (jle'nevoise, 143 
,, Matelote Sauce, 146 
,, to Pot, 143 
,, Pudding, 149 
,, Roast, 146 
,, to Roll, 142 
,, Souchet, 148 
,, with Sweet Herbs, 147 
a la Tartare, 147 
Shad, 171, 172 
Skate, au Beurre Noir, 202 

,, Crimped, with Burnt Butter, 

202 
,, Liver Sauce, 201 
Smelts, 200 
Sole Puddhig. 157 
Soles a la Colbert, 155 
,, a la Fran(;aise, 155 
,, Fillets of, 153, 154 
,, Fried. 156 
,, a la MeuniL-re, 155 
,, Stewed, 157 
Sprats, Baked, 201 

,, Broiled, 200 
Sturgeon, Fresh, 202 
Trout, to Cook, 196 
Turbot, to Dress, 151 
,, Fillets of, 149 
,, Gratiu of Fillets of, 150 
,, Timbales of Fillets of, 152 



Fish {conthiKcd) : — 

Turbot, Vol-au-Veut d'Escalopes 

de, 151 
Whitebait, 165 

Devilled, 166 
"Whiting, Broiled, 161 
,, Fillets of, 165 
,, au Gratiu, 164 
,, Pudding, 163 
,, Puddings of, a I'Ude, 163 
., Quenelles of, 165 
Fish Cake, 198 
,, Forcemeat, 140 
,, Gravy Sauce, 332 
,, Pie, Salt, 198 
,, Puddmg, Salt, 199 
,, Quenelles, 140 
,, Sauce, AVhite, 351 
,, Soup, 97 

,, ,, a la Parisienne, 98 
5, Soups, The Basis of, 97 
,, Stews, Forcemeat for, 140 
Fisherman's Soup, 102 
Flemish Soup, 134 
Floating Island, 418 
Flounders Water Souchet, 170 

,, aud Plaice, 171 

Flour Porridge, 459 
Forced Asparagus in French Rolls, 370 
Forcemeat Balls, 204 

,, ,, of Fowl, 255 

,, ,, of Whithigs, 165 

,, of Eels, 174 

., Fish, 140 

,, for Stews of Fish, 140 

Foreign Hash, 318 
Fowl, Braised, 207 
,, a la Cardinal, 250 
,, Country Captain, 206 
,, Cutlets^ of Fillets of, 249 
,, a la Dubaril, 252 
,, Emince, 254 
,, Forcemeat Balls of, 255 
,, Fricassee of, 206 
,, Minced, a la Polonaise, 251 
,, a la Monglas, 253 
,, w'ith Olives, 254 
,, Puree of, a la Monglas, 119 
,, Ragout of, 255 
,, Salj)icou of, 254 
,, with Tarragon, 254 
,, a la Tartare, 252 
,, ,a la Turque, 253 
,, a la Villeroi, 251 
Fowls, Pea, 268 
Fran(,'ais Pudding, 242 
French Beans in Black Butter, 363 
,, ,, Brittany Fashiou, 364 

,, ,, a la Fran(;aise, 364 



INDEX TO liEClVES. 



477 



French Beans, Puroe of, 365 
,, ,, to Ragout, 363 

,, ,, " Steward's," 36 1 

,, Brown Soup, 81 
,, Gauffres, 421 
,, Panada, 241 
,, Paste, 419 
„ Pudding, 419 
,, Split Pea Soup, 88 
Fresh Sturgeon, 202 
Fricassee of Beetroot, 376 

, , of Chicken iu Ten Minutes, 260 
,, of Eels, 17'> 
,, of Fowl, 206 
Fricasseed Eggs, 391 

,, Flounders and Plaice, 171 

Lobster, 191 
Fried Bread-crumbs, 141 
,, Eels, 175 
,, Egg Plant, 4.59 
,, Fillets of Soles, 153 
,, Herbs, 141 
,, Oysters, 182 
,, Parsley, 141 
,, Potatoes, 43 
., Sheep's Trotters, 296 
,, Smelts, 200 
,, Soles, Tartar Sauce, 1.55 
Fritters, Cheese, 410 
,, Chicken, 419 
., Gennan, 420 
',, Oyster, 187 
,, Parsnip, 366 

Plain, 420 
„ Potato, 363 
,, Salmon, 14-5 
Fromage de Creme a la Glace, 447 
Frothed Eggs, 392 
Fruit Cake, Plain, 400 

,, to Prepare for Children, 467 
,, Puffs, Preserved, 436 
Frumenty, 463 
Frying, Batter for, 205 

G 
Galantine, Rabbit, 211 

of Turkey, 213 

Game {sec Poultry, Game, etc.) 
Game, Puree of, 120 

,, ,, Hunter's Mode, 121 

,, Souffles, Small, 388 

,, Soup, 122 

,, ,, ^ la Rossini, 122 

Garlic Sauce, 332 
Gauffres, 421 

,, French, 421 
Geneva Sauce, 332 
German Cheese Soup, 131 



German Fritters, 420 

,, Puddings, 422 

,, Sauce, 333 

,, Soup, 133 

,, Toast, 241 

,, "Wine Soup, 136 
Gipsy Sauce, 333 
Glazed Onions, for Garnish, 353 
Grande Sauce, 334 
Grateful Pudding, 422, 423 
Gratin of Boiled Beef, 307 

,, of Eggs with Cheese, 393 

,, of Fillets of Turbot, 1.50 
., of Pigeon a la Perigord, 214 
,, of Rabbits, 283 
Green Asparagus Soup, 88 
,, Corn Omelette, 463 
,, ,, Pudding, 464 

,, Pea Soup, 83 
,, Pudding, 422 
Greengages, Bottled, 465 
Grilled Breast of Mutton, 312 

,, Mushrooms, 373 
Grouse, Braised, with Cabbage, 278 

,, Broiled with Bacon, 276 

,, Canapes for, 278 

., ii la Gun-Room, 276 

„ Pie, 274 

,, Roasted, Plain, 275 

,, ,, a, la Sam Ward, 275 

,, Salad, 377 

,, Salmi of, with Claret, 277 

,, ,, ^ la Parisienne, 277 

,; Soup, 124 
Gumbo, 375 
Gurnet, Roast, 201 

H 

Hachee Sauce, 334 

Hachis, or Minced Fowl, 251 

Haddock, Baked, 159 

Dublin Bay, Baked, 168 
,, Puddings, ■'168, 197 

,, ,, Cream for, 169 

Haggis, Scotch, 235 
Half-Glaze for Vegetables, 353 
Ham or Bacon, Bean Soup with, 94 

,, Pie, Raised, 223 

,, Roast, 245 

,, Sauce, 334 

., York, -with Spinach, 222 
Hanover Cake (or Pudding), 423 
Hare, Boned, 291 

,, Jugged, 289 

„ Pite, 289 

., Pie, 290 

,, Potted, 214 

,, Puree of, Soup, 120 

,, Soup, EugUsh, 123 



478 



THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 



Hare Soiqi, Scotch, VIZ 
Haricot Beau Soup, a If,. Coudu, 95 
,, Beaus, White, MGo 
Mutton, 313 
Hasli, Corned-Beef, 318 

,, Dry Curry, 324 

,, Foreign, 318 

,, Meat, 318 

,, Vegetable, 241 
Hashed Calf's Head, 317 

„ . Eggs, 392 
Hasty Pudding, 46') 
Hutelets, Oyster, 183. 184 

,, Sauce, 335 
Hazel-Nut Butter, 387 
Hen's Nest Eggs, 393 
Herbs, to Fry, 141 

,, Omelette with, 237 
Herring Roes on Toast, 383 

Salad, 380 
Herrings with Mustard Sauce, 169 
Hessian Stew, 315 
HoUandaise Sauce, 33") 
Hominy Pori'idge, 4.)9, 460 
Hoi3j)ing John, 463 

Horsd'OEuveesandSavoukyDishes: — 

Anchovies, Norwegian Fashion, 381 

Anchovy Canapes, 381 

Biscuits, Devilled, 387 

Bonne Bouchos, 3S.") 

Butter, Curled, 387 
,, Hazel- Xut, 387 

Canapes a la Turbigo, 383 

Caviare, Little Crusts of, 386 

Croquettes of Macaroni, 386 

Croutons a I'Espa.gnole, 385 

Crusts of Sardines, 383 

Curled Butter, JS7 

Devilled Biscuits, ;;87 

Game Souffles, Small, 388 

Hazel-Nut Butter. 387 

Herring Roes on Toast, 383 

Italian Sausage, 384 

Laugtry Sandwiches, 387 

Madison Canai'es, 44 

Sardines a la Provencjale, 382 
,, iilaRoyale, 382 
,, Crusis of, ■i83 

Sheep's Tail a I'Anglaise, 297 

Small Game Soufllt's, 388 

Spanish Crusts, 38) 

Tranches Viennoises a la Tomate, 
384 

Tunny, 382 
Horseradish Sauce, 336 
Hotchpotch, 116, 319 
Hot Raised Pies of Larks, 265 



Hottentot Pie, 224 
Hunting Pudding, 423 



Ices and Drinks: — 

Almond Cream Ice, 447 
Aiu'icot ,, ,, 448 
Cafe au Lait, 453 
Capillaire Syrup, 449 
Chocolate Cream Ice, 448 
Cider Cup, 449 
Coffee, 452, 453 

„ White, 454 
Fromage de Creme a la Glace, 

447 
Lemon Cream Ice, 446 
,, Shrub, 450 
„ Syllabub, 450 
, , Water Ice, 446 
,, Whey, 450 
Lemonade, Effervescing, 451 

Still, 451 
OraiJge Cream Ice, 446 

Shrub, 450 
Punch, Hot, 449 
Pineapple Cream Ice, 447 
Sherbet, Persian, 451 
,, Turkish, 452 
Vanilla Cream Ice, 445 
White Coffee, 454 
Indian Fagadu, 375 

., Pudding. 9 
Irish Mutton Stew, 316 
,, Pancakes, 433 ^ 
Italian Cheese, 457 
,, Cream, 414 
,, Macaroni, 240 
,, Pudding, 424 
,, Pyramid, 426 
,, Sauce, 294, 336 
,, Sausage, 384 
Ivory Soup, 118 

J 

Jacobin's Pottage, The, 115 

Jambon d'Yorck aux fi2^iii^i'<^ls, 222 

Jelly, Aspic, 232, 233 

Jerusalem Artichokes, 373 

Jolm Dory, Boiled, with Lobster Sauce, 

152 
Jugged Hare, 289 

,, Venison, 288 
Julienne Soup, 80 

K 

Kail, Scots, 235 
Kale Soup, Scotch, 92 
Kebob, Milk, 311 



INDEX TO RECIPES. 



479 



Kebob, Mincemeat, Baked, 311 

,, Mutton, 310 

,, Skewer, 310 
Kedgeree, 462 

,, for Breakfast, 200 

"Kickshaws" of Rabbit, 210 
Kidney Pie, Beef, 287 
Kidneys, Omelette with, 237 

„ Sheeps', Boiled, 287 

„ Stewed, 226 

,, "Tossed" in White Wine, 

287 
"Klossen," 31 

Knuckle of Veal, Boiled, 295 
Kromeskies a la Monglas, 230 



Lady Morgan Soup, 101 
Lady Sunderland's Pudding, 424 
Lamb Chops, Maisou d'Or, 300 
,, Cutlets, en Salpicou, 299 
,, ,, k la Soubise, 299 

,, Entree of Boiled, 228 
„ and Pork Chops. 224 
Lambs' Tails, Yol-au-Vent of, 229 
Langtry Sandwiches, 387 
Larded Eel, 176 _ 
Lark Pies, Hot Raised, 26-5 
Larks, Caisses of, 26') 
,, in Croustade, 265 
,, au Gratin, 266 
,, and Wheatears, to Roast, 266 
Leek Soup, 92 
Leg of Mutton, Braised, 312 

,, ,, Roasted (Polish Way), 

243 
Leghorn Macaroni, 240 
Lemon Ci-eam Ice, 44G 
,, Custard, 417 
,, Pudding, 425 
„ Puffs, 424 
,, Sauce, 337 
,, Shrub, 450 
,, Syllabub, 450 
,, Water Ice, 446 
,, Whey, 450 
Lemonade, Effervescing, 451 

Still, 451 
Lentil Porridge, 460 

,, Soup, 96 
Lettuce, Soup, Braised, 93 
Little Buns, 408 

,, Crusts of Caviai-e, 336 
,, Fish Puddings, 197 
„ Oyster Souffles, 184 
Liver and Bacon, 288 
Loaves, Oyster, 182 
Lobster Balls, 191 

,, a la Braise, 190 



Lob.ster Curry, 322 

., to Fricassee, 191 

,, Mayonnaise with Aspic Jelly, 
192 

,, Pie, 190 

,, Sauce, 337 

,, k la Soulevard, 191 

,, Soup, 99, 100, 101 
Loin of Mutton, to Kebob, 310 

,, „ Rolled and Stuffed, 244 

Lord Warden Soup, 113 
Lyonnaise (or Bretonne) Sauce, 337 
Lyons Sausages, 456 

M 

Macaroni and Cheese Croquettes, 400 
„ „ Soup, 130 

, , Croquettes of, 386 

Itahan, 210 
,, Leghorn, 240 
Pudding, 426 
,, Soup, 126 

Timbale of, 239 
Macaroon Custard Pudding, 425 
Mackerel, to Bake, 172 

,, au Beurre Noir, 174 

,, to Broil, 173 

', with Brown Butter, 172 

k la Maitre d'HOtcl, 173 
Maigi-e Soups, 89, 90, 91 
Maitre d'Hotel Butter, 174 

,, ,, French Beans, 364 
,, ,, Potatoes, 360 
,, ,, Sauce, 348 
Marrow Pie, 367 
Matelote Sauce, 338 

„ of Eels, 176 
Mayonnaise of Fillets of Soles, 154 

,, Sauce, 338 

Meagre Risotto, 239 
Meat, Curried, 323 
Meringues, 426 
Mexican Omelette, 458 
,, Puchero, 132 
Milk Kebob, 311 
,, Porridge, 460 
,, Soup, Sweet, 126 
Mille Fcuilles<Italian Pyramid), 426 
Mince Pies, 427 
Minced Beef, 219 

,, ,, with Cucumbers, 219 

,, Collops, Scotch, 234 
,, Fowl a la Polonaise, 251 
„ Mutton, 220 
,, Pheasant, 273 
,, Rabbits au Furaet, 285 
,, Veal a la Catalan, 295 
Mincemeat Kebob, Baked, 311 
Minestra Soup. 135 



480 



THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 



Minestrone Soup, 135 
Mirepoix Sauce, 338 

Miscellaneous : — 

American Breakfasts, 457 
Bologna Sausages. 4.55 
Celery Porridge, 459 
Cherries Preserved in Syrup, 466 
Corn Pie, 464 
Egg-Fruit, Stuffed, 458 
Flour Porridge, 459 
> Fried Egg Plant, 459 
Fruits, Preparing for Children, 467 
Frumenty, 403 
Green Corn Omelette, 463 
,, „ Pudding, 464 
Greengages, Bottled, 465 
Hasty Pudding, 465 
Hominy Porridge, 459, 460 
Hop]iiug John, 465 
Italian Cheese, 457 
Kedgeree, 462 
Lentil Porridge, 460 
Lj-ous Sausages, 456 
Mexican Omelette, 458 
Milk Porridge, 460 
Mush, 462 

Oatmeal Porridge, 460 
Plums, Preserved, 466 
St. Geimaius Pudding, 457 
Sago Porridge, 461 

,, and Rice Porridge, 461 
Sausages, 455 
Sowins, 461 

,, Scotch, 462 
Strawberries, Preserved, 467 
Succotash, 464 
Wheatmeal Porridge, 461 
Mock Anchovies, 199 
,, Oysters, 189 

,, Turtle a rAniiral Duperre, 106 
,, ,, Soup, 105 

„ ,, ,, Parisian, 107 

Monglas Sauce, 339 
Moutpelier Butter, 339 
Muffin Pudding, 428 
Mullets, Red, a I'ltalienne, 166 
,, ,, &,la Ravigote, 167 

,, ,, with Sweet Herbs, 167 

Mulligatawny Soup, 116, 117 

,, White, 117 
Mush, 462 
Mushroom Pie, 373 
Mushrooms, Essence of, 374 

,, Grilled, 373 

Mutton, Breast of. Grilled, 312 
,, Carbonnade of, 309 
,, Chops, 300 
,, ,, Bread-crumbed, 301 



Mutton Chops, Bretouue, 300 
,, Ham. 309 
,, Haricot, 313 
,, Leg of, Braised, 312 
,, ,, Roasted (Polish Wav), 

243 
,, Loin of. Rolled and Stuffed, 
244 
„ to Kebob, 310 

,, Minced, 220 
,, Pie, English, 314 
,, Shoulder of, to Stew, 310 
,, Stew, Irish. 316 
,, Tea, 79 

X 

Xavariu Stew, 316 

Neat's-Foot Pudding, 232 
,, Tongue au Gratin, 297 

Neck of Veal k la Crerae, 292 
,, a la Mirejjoix, 291 

,, with Sweet Herbs, 292 

Nelson Puddings, 429 

Nesselrode Pudding, 35, 429 

New England Pancakes, 434 

Noddy Puddings, 430 

Northumberland Puddings, 430 

Nouille Soup, 127 

O 

Oatmeal Porridge, 460 
Old-Fashioned Pea Soup, 86 
Old Scotch Brown Soup, 113 

,, White Soup, 109, 110 

Omelette with Bacon. 237 

,, Crab, 189 

,, with Fine Herbs, 237 

,, Green Corn, 463 

,, with Kidnej's, 237 

,, Mexican, 458 

,, Plain, 237 

,, Potato, 362 

,, Sweet, 431 

Onion Sauce, 339 
,, Soup, 89 
,, ,, Maigre. 89 

Onions, Glazed, for Garnish, 353 

Puree of, 374 
Orange Cream, 415 

,, ,, Ice, 446 

„ Pudding. 431 

,, Sauce, 340 

,, Shrub, 450 

,, Tart, 432 
Orleans Sauce, 340 
Ortolans, to Roast, 280 
Outlandish Dish, Au, 320 
Ox-Rump Soup, 111 
Ox-Tail, Crumbed and Grilled, 297 



INDEX TO RECIPES. 



481 



Ox-Tail Soup, 111 
Ox-Tails a la Saint Lambert, 297 
Ox Tongue c\ I'ficaiiate, 218 
Oyster Curry, 322 

,, Fritters, 187 

„ Hatelets, 183, 184 

,, Loaves, 182 

,, Patties, 187 

„ Pie, 188 

,, PudcUng, 188 

,, Sauce, 340 

„ Sausages, 184 

,, Souffles, Little, 184 

,, Soup, 103 
Oysters, Bearded, 186 

,, Broiled, 183 

,, and Eggs, 187 
Fried, 182 

,, Mock, 189 

Pickled, 187 
,, Rissoles of, 185 

,, Roast, 183 

,, Scolloped, 186 

,, Stewed, 183 

,, a la Villeroi, 185 



Panada, 31 

,, French, 241 
Pancake PuddLug, 434 
Pancakes, Berlin, 432 
,, Cream, 433 

,, Irish, 433 

,, New England, 434 

,, Piuk-Coloui-ed, 434 

Rice, 434 
Parisian Mock-Turtle Soup, 107 
Parmentier Soup, 85 
Parsnip Fritters, 366 
Parsnips with Beans, 366 
Parsley, to Fry, 141 

,, Green Broccoli and Cauliflower 
Soup, 94 
Partridge, Braised, Avith Celery Sauce, 
269 ■ 
,, Broiled, 270 

,, aux Choux, plus Distinguee, 

273 
,, au Gratiu, 271 

,, Roasted, 270 

,, Salad, 377 

,, Saute with Mushrooms, 269 

Partridges, Chartreuse of, 271 
,, h, la Chipolata, 272 

,, Piu-ue of, 121 

,, Salmi Chaudfroid of, 272 

,, Stewed, 270 

Paste, French. 419 
Pasties, Fieldfare, 314 

F F 



Patties, Chicken, with Pure^ a la Reine, 
208 
„ Oyster, 187 
,, Veal and Ham, 223 
Pea Fowls, 268 
,, Soup, French Split, 88 
,, ,, Green, 83 
,, „ Old-fashioned, 86 
Peas and Bacon, 221 

,, Stewed, 369 
Pease Pudding, 87 
Pepper-Pot, A, 137 

,, ,, West Indian, 319 

Petites Croiltes de Caviar, 386 

,, Timhalles^ of Fillets of Tui-bot c\ 
la Veuetienne, 152 
Petits Souffles de Gibier, 388 
Persian Sherbet, 451 
Pheasant, Minced, 273 
Pickled Oysters, 187 

Pies and Puddings, Savotjey :— 
Artichoke Pie, 372 
Battalia Pie, 321 
Beef-Kidney Pie, 287 

,, Steak Pie, 303 
Cabbage Pudding, 357 
Carrot Pie, 366 
Chicken Pie, 261 

,, Pot Pie, 262 

,, Pudding, 261 

,, ,, a la Richelieu, 258 

al'Ude, 257 
Com Pie, 464 
CraA-fish Pudding, 192 
Dried Fish Puddiug, 197 
Eel Pudding, 181 
Frantjais Pudding, 242 
Green Corn PudcUng, 464 
Grouse Pie, 274 
Haddock Puddings, 168, 197 

, , , , to prepare Cream 

for, 169 
Hare Pie, 290 
Hasty Pudding, 465 
Hottentot Pie, 224 
Lark Pies, 265 
Little Fish Puddings, 197 
Lobster Pie, 190 
Marrow Pie, 367 
Mushi-oom Pie, 373 
Mutton Pie, 314 
Neat's Foot Pudding, 232 
Oyster Pie, 188 

,, Pudding, 188 
Pease Pudding, 87 
Pigeon Pie, 248 

,, Pudding, 249 
Potato Pudding, 361 



482 



THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 



Pies and Puddings, Savouey {con- 
tinucd): — 
Pumpkin Pie, 367 
Eabbit Pie, 285 

,, Pudding, 211 
Raised Ham Pie, 223 
St. Germaius Pudding, 457 
Salmon Pudding, 149 
Salt Fish Pie, 198 
,, ,, Puddings, 199 
^ Sole Pudding, 157 
Spinach Pudding, 357 
Sweetbread Pie, 216 
Veal and Ham Pie, 223 
Vegetable Pie, 368 
Venison Pie, 215 
Wiiite Pudding in Skins, 238 
Whiting Puddings, 163 

„ a rUde, 163 

Pies and Puddings, Sweet : — 
Almond Pudding, 402, 403 
Amber Pudding, 401 
Angelica Tart, 404 
Apple Pudding, 405. 406 
Apricot Pudding, 406 
Bakewell Pudding, 407 
Barley Pudding, 407 
Brown Bread Pudding, 408 
Cabinet Pudding, 428 
Chestnut Pudding, 411 
Curd Pudding, 415 
Delicious Pudding, A Very, 437 
Derbyshire Pudding, 417 
Duke of Cumberland's Pudding, 417 
Dutch Pudding, 418 
French Pudding, 419 
German Puddings, 422 
Grateful Puddings, 422, 423 
Green Pudding, 422 
Hanover Pudding, 423 
Hunting Pudding, 423 
Italian Pudding, 424 
Lady Sunderland's Pudding, 425 
Lemon Puddings, 425 
Macaroni Pudding, 426 
Macaroon Custard Pudding, 425 
Milles Feuilles (ItalianPyi-amid),426 
Mince Pies, 427 
Muffin Pudding, 428 
Nelson Puddings, 429 
Nesselrode Pudding, 35, 429 
Noddjf Puddings, 430 
Northuinl)erland Pudding, 439 
Orange Pudding, 431 
Pancake Padding, 434 
Plum Puddings, 435 
Pudding h la Parisienue, 436 
Pumpiou Pie, 438 



Pies and Puddings, Sweet {cm- 
tiuKcd) : — 
Quaking Pudding, 438 
Queen's Pudding, 438 
Raspberry Tart,"439 
Sago Pudding, 443 
Swiss Pudding, 440 
Tapioca Puddings, 441 
Transparent Pudding, 441 
Vermicelli Pudding, 443 
Welsh Pudding, 444 
Yam Pudding, 444 
Pigeon, Gratin of, a la Perigord, 214 
„ Pie, 248 
,, Pudding, 249 
Pigeons a la Crapaudiue, 247 
,, to Roast, 247 
,, on the Skewer, 248 
Pike, Baked, 195 

(French Way), 195 
,, Roast, 194 
Pineapple Cream, 415 

Ice, 447 
Pink- coloured Pancakes, 434 
Plain Boiled Calf's Head, 228 
,, Fritters, 420 
,, Fruit Cake, 409 
,, Omelette, 237 
,, Sausage-Meat, 205 
Plovers, 268 

Capilotade of, 268 
Plovers' Eggs in Aspic, 395 
Plum Puddings, 435 
Plums, Preserved, 466 
Poacher's Soup, 124 
Pomeranian Sauce for Wild Ducks, 14 
Poor Man's Sauce, 341 
Pork Chops, Broiled, 301 
,, ,, Lamb and, 224 
,, Cutlets and Tomato Sauce, 225 
,, Cake of, 320 

Porridges : — 
Celery, 459 
Flour, 459 
Hominy, 459, 460 
LeutU, 460 
Milk, 460 
Oatmeal, 460 
Sago, 461 

,, and Rice, 461 
Wheatmeal, 461 
Portuguese Sauce, 341 
Potage a la Clermont, 89 
,, MaDiable, 113 
,, b, rivoire, 118 
,, aux Pointes d'Asperges, 89 
,, de Poisson a la Mariuiere, 102 
,, Priutanier, 82 



IXDEX TO RECIPES. 



483 



Potage a la Piu-ee de Chouxfleurs, 94 

, de Pur^e de Gibier h, la Chasseur, 
121 

,, a la Reine, 109 
Potato Cake, 361 

,, Cheese-Cakes, 363 

,, Fritters, 363 

,, Omelette, 362 

,, Pudding, 361 

,, Rissoles, 362 

,, Salad, 15, 380 

,, Souffle, 362 

,, Soup, 85 

,, Stuffiug, 361 
Potatoes, Fried, 43 

,, " Steward's," 360 

Pot-au-Feu, 77 
Pottage, The Jacobiu's, 115 
Potted Cheese, 398 

,, Hare, 214 
Poulet, Epigram de, 208 

POULTEY, Game, etc. (sea also under 

Entrees, Entremets, and Roast) : — 

Brown Fiicass^ed Chicken, 260 

„ „ Rabbit, 260 

Canvas-Back Ducks, Roasted, 264 
Capon, Larded, to Boil, 257 
,, b, la Xantaise, 257 
,, a la Turque, 256 
Chicken, Browu Fricasseed, 260 
,, Fricassee of, in Ten 

Minutes, 260 
,, b, la Gii-euflot, 256 
,, a la Marengo, 256 
„ Pie, 261 
,, Pot-Pie, 262 
,, Pudding, 261 
,, Puddings a la Richelieu, 253 
„ ,, kl'Ude, 257 

, , White Fi-icasseed, 260 

Chickens, Souffle of, 259 
Duck, Capilotade of, 262 
,, with Olives, 263 
,, with Turnips, 263 
Financiere pour Vol-au-Veut, 259 
Fowl a la Cardinal, 250 
,, Cutlets of Fillets of, 249 
„ k la Dubaril, 252 
,, Forcemeat Balls of, 255 
,, a la Monglas, 253 
,, with Olives, 254 
,, Ragoilt of, 255 
,, with Tarragon, 254 
,, h la Tartare, 252 
,, a la Turque, 253 
„ h la Villeroi, 251 
Orouse, Braised with Cabbage, 278 
,, Broiled with Bacon, 276 

F F 2 



Poultry, Game, etc. {continued) : — 
Grouse, Canapes for, 278 
,, k la Guu-Room, 276 

Pie, 274 
,, Roasted, Plain, 275 
,, „ k la Sam Ward, 

275 
,, Salmi of, with Claret, 277 
,, of, a la Parisienne, 
277 
Hachis, 251 
Larks, Caisses of, 265 
,, in Croustade, 265 
,, au Gratiu, 266 
,, Hot Raised Pies of, 265 
,, to Roast, 266 
Minced Fowl h, la Polonaise, 251 
Ortolans, to Roast, 280 
Partridge, Braised, with Celery 
Sauce, 269 
,, Broiled, 270 

,, Chartreuse of, 271 

,, aux Choux plu5 Dis- 

tinguee, 273 
,, au Gratiu, 271 

,, Roasted, 270 

,, Saute, with Mushrooms, 

269 
Partridges, a la Chipolata, 272 

Salmi Chaudfroid of, 

272 
Stewed, 270 
Pea Fowls, 268 
Pheasant, Miuced, 273 
Pigeon Pie, 248 

,, Pudding, 249 
Pigeons a la Craj^audine, 247 
,, to Roast, 247 
,, on the Skewer, 248 
Plovers, 268 

,, Capilotade of, 268 
Pidlets, Scollops of Fat, 250 
Quails h, la Chasseur, 267 
,, k I'Espagnole, 267 
,, Stewed, 267 
R;xils, to Roast, 289 
ScoUops of Fat Pullets, 250 
Snipes, 280 

,, to Roast, 280 
Wheatears, to Roast, 266 
White Fricasseed Chicken, 260 

Rabbit, 260 
Wild Ducks b, la Chasseur, 264 
Woodcock, Salmi of, 279 
Woodcocks, 280 

,, to Roast, 280 

Preserved Cherries, 466 
„ Fruit Puffs, 436 

,, Plums, 466 



484 



THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 



Preserved Strawberries, 467 
Provencal Hotchpotch, 319 
Proveu^ale Sauce, 342 
Puchero, 132 

,, Mexican, 132 
Pudding, A Frencli, 419 
Puddings. {See Pies and Puddings, 
Savoury; aho Pies and Pudoiug^, 
Sweet) 
Puff Paste, Light, 437 
PulMs, Scollops of Fat, 250 
Punipion Pie, 438 
Pumpkin Pie, 367 

,, Pure'eof, 368 

,, Soup Maigre, 91 

Punch Ji la Fran(;aise, Hot, 449 
Punshki, 236 
Puree of Celery, 374 

,, of Fowl'iilaMonglas, 119 

,, of French Beans, 365 

,, of Game, 120 

,, „ Hunter's Mode, 121 

,, of Hare Soup, 120 

„ of Onions, 374 

,, of Partridges, 121 

,, of Pumjikin, 368 

,, of Spinach, 358 

,, of Wliite Beans, 120 
Purees, to Colour, 352 

Q 

Quails a la Chasseur, 267 

,, Compote of, 209 

,, k I'Espagnole, 267 

,, Stewed, 267 
Quaking Pudding, 438 
Queen Blanche Stew, 226 

,, Soup, 109 
Queen's Puddings, 438 
Quenelles, 140 

of Whitings, 165 



Eabbit, Brown, Fricasseed, 260 

,, Croquettes of, 285 

,, Fillets of, k la Pompadour, 282 
,, ,, Young, k rOrlie, 286 

,, Galantine, 211 

,. Gratiuof, 283 

,, "Kickshaws" of, 210 

,, Mince of, au Fumet, 285 

,, and Onions, 282 

,, Pie, 285 

,, Pudduig, 211 

Scollops of, 210 

,, Soup, 118 

, , Turban of Fillets of , 212 

,, it la Vcnetieune, 284 

,, White, Fricasseed, 260 



Eabbit, Wliite Gibelots of, 284 

,, Young, in Curl Papers, 213 
Ragoftt of Asparagus, 371 
,, of Cabbages, 357 
,, of Cucumbers, 359, 360 
,, of Eggs and Mushrooms, 394 
, , of Fowl, 255 
,, of French Beans, 363 
Rails, to Roast, 280 
Raised Ham Pie, 223 
, , Lark Pies, 265 
Randalled Eggs, 390 
Raspberry Tart, 439 
Ravigote Butter, 342 
Ravioli Soup, 116 
Red Mullets a I'ltalienne, 166 
,, a la Ravigote, 167 

,, with Sweet Herbs, 107 

Remoulade Sauce, 179 
Resurrection Cutlets, 299 
Rice and Apples, 439 
,, Casserole of, 238 
,, for Curry, 324 
„ Custard, 439 
,, Flummery, 439 
,, Pancakes, 434 
„ Soup, 127 
Richelieu Sauce, 342 
Risotto, 239 

,, Meagre, 239 
Rissoles, 227 

,, of Oysters, 185 
,, Potato, 362 
,, of Sweetbread, 286-2S7 
Roast Beef, Larded, 245 

Canvas-Back Ducks, 264 
Gurnet, 201 

Grouse il la Sam Ward, 27'> 
Ham, 245 

Larks and Wheatears. 266 
Mutton, Leg of, 243 
,, Loin of, 214 
Ortolans, 280 
Oysters, 183 
Partridge, 270 
Pea Fowls, 268 
Pigeons, 247 
Pike, 294 
Plain Grouse, 275 
Plovers, 268 
Rails, 280 
Salmon, 146 
Snipes, 280 
Sucking-Pig, 243 
Tripe, 246 
Venison, 288 

Neck of, 244 
Woodcocks, 230 
Robert Sauce, 343 



INDEX TO RECIPES. 



485 



Komaine Sauce, 344 
Koux, Brown, 352 
„ White, 351 
Eurapof Beef, to Boil (French Fashion), 
308 

S 

Sago Pon-idge, 461 
,, Pudding, 443 
,, and Rice Pon-idge, 461 
,, Soup with Turuips, 128 
St. Gei-main Soup, S3 
St. Germains Pudding, 457 
Salads : — 

Chicken, 378 
Grouse, 377 
Herring, 380 
Partridge, 377 
Potato, 15, 380 
of Salmon, 379 
of Smelts, 379 
Salmi Chaudfroid of Partridges, 272 
,, of Grouse with Claret, 277 
,, ,, a la Parisienne, 277 

,, Sauce, 344 
,, of Woodcock, 279 
Salmon, Baked, 146 
,, au Bleu, 145 
,, k la Braise, 148 
,, Caveach, 143 
,, to Collar, 141 
,, Ciimped, au Naturel, 144 
,, ,, Slices of , Broiled with 

Caper Sauce, 144 
,, Curried, 323 
,, Cutlets, 142 
,, ,, of , k la Maitre d'Hotel, 

142 
,, Fritters, 145 
,, a la Geuevoise, 143 
, , Matelote Sauce, 146 
,, to Pot, 143 
,, Pudding, 149 
,, Roast, 146 
,, to Roll, 142 
,, Salad of, 379 
,, Souchet, 148 
,, with Sweet Herbs, 147 
,, a la Tartare, 147 
Salpicon of Fowl, 254 
Salsafies with Beef MaiTOw, 375 
Salt Cod a la Bonne Femme, 161 
, ,, k la Maitre d'Hotel, 160 
, ,, with Parsuips, 162 
, ,, ^ la Proveurale, 161 
, Fish Pie, 198 
, ,, Pudding, 199 
Sandwiches, Langtry, 387 
Sardines, Crusts of, 383 



Sardiues a la Proveu^ale, 382 

,, a la Royale, 382 
Sauces, (alphabetically arranged), 325- 

352 
Sauces, to Colour, 52 
Sausage, Italian, 384 
Sausage-Meat, Plain, 205 
Sausages, 455 

,, Beef and Oyster, 315 

,, Bologna, 455 

,, Lyons, 456 

,, Oyster, 184 

Savoury Dishes. (6Vt' Hors-d'CEuvres) 

„ Jelly, 232 
Scariet Beef, 308 
Scolloped Oysters, 186 
Scollops of Cod, 162 

„ of Fat Pullets, 250 
,, of Rabbits, 210 
,, of Sweetbreads in Cases, 217 
,, ,, „ with Green Peas, 

216 
Scotch Barley Broth with Boiled Mutton 
or Beef, 128 
,, Beef Collops with Onions, 234 
,, Bro^vn Soup, Old, 113 
,, Hare Soup, 123 
,, Haggis, 235 
,, Kale Soup, 92 
,, Minced Collops, 234 
,, Shortbread, 440 
,, Sowius, 462 
., White Soup, 109, 110 
Scots Kail, 235 
Shad, 171 

,, , Broiled Maitre d'HOtel, 172 
Shallot Sauce, 345 
Shai-j) Sauce 330, 346 

,, Soup, 138 
Sheep's Head Broth, 108 

,, Kidneys, Broiled, 287 
,, Tail a I'Auglaise, 297 
,, Tongues si la Saint Lambert, 

298 
,, ,, with Stewed Endive, 

218 
,, Trotters with Cheese, 231 
,, ,, Fried, 296 

Sherbet, Persian, 451 
,, Turkish, 452 
Short (or Spiced) Beef, 305 
Shortbread, Scotch, 440 
Shoulder of Mutton, to Stew, 310 

,, of Veal k la Bourgeoise, 231 
Shi-imp Sauce, 346 
Sicilian Sauce, 346 
Simple Soup with Eggs, A, 136 
Skate au Beurre Noir, 202 
„ Crimped, with Burnt Butter, 202 



486 



THE TROBOUGII GOOD COOK. 



Skate, with Liver Sauce, 201 
Skewer Kebob, 310 
Smelts, Fried, 200 

„ Salad of, 379 
Smooth Sauce, 347 
Snipe, Woodcocks and, 280 
Snipes, to Roast, 280 
Sole k la Colbert, 155 

„ Cui-ried, 322 

,, a la Meuniere, 155 

,, Pudding, 157 
Soles, Fillets of, Fried, 153 

,, ,, ,, au Gratin, 153 

,, a la Fi-au(;aise, 155 

,, Fried, Tartar Sauce, 156 

,, a la Maitre d'Hutel, 154 

,, Ma_yonnaise of, 154 

,, a rOrlie, 153 

,, Stewed, 157 
Sorrel Soup, 83 
Souffle of Chickens a la Cr^me, 259 

,, Coffee, 412 
Souffles of Game, Small, 388 
,, Little Oyster, 184 
,, Potato, 362 



Soups : 



Asparagus, Green, 88 

of Aspai-agus Tijjs, 89 

Aurora, 84 

Austrian, 134 

Autumn, 81 

Barley Broth, Scotch, 128 

Bean, witli Ham or Bacon, 94 

Beef Broth, 77 

,, and Cabbage, 114 

,, Tea, 78 
Benedictine Maigre, 90 
Bisque of Crayfish, 99 
"Borsch," 4 
a la Bouchue, 112 
Braised Lettuce, 93 
Bread, 128 
Brunoise, 81 
of Brussels Sprouts, 84 
Cabbage, 92 
Calabrian, 133 
CaiTot, Young, 85 
CauUflower, 94 

,, Green Broccoli, and 

Parsley, 94 
Cheese, 65 

,, h, la Biboron, 130 
,, German, 131 
Chestnut Nesselrode, 129 
Chicken Broth, 79, 80 
Cock-a-Leekie, 92 
Cocoa-nut, 130 
Cold, 137 



Soups {coi/fii/urd) -. — 
Conger Eel, 104 
Consomme, 77 
Crayfish, Bisque of, 99 
Cucumber and Pea, 92 
Cun-aut Juice, for Children, 136 
CuiTy of Fish, 103 
with Eggs, A Simple, 136 
English Hare, 123 
Fish, 97 
,, the Basis of, 97 

,, Chowder, 105 

,, li la Parisienne, 98 
Fisherman's, 102 
Flemish, 134 
French Brown, 81 

„ SpUtPea, 88 
Game, 122 

,, a la Rossini, 122 
Gennan, 133 

,, Cheese, 131 
,, Wine, 136 
Green Asparagus, 88 

„ Pea, 83 
Grouse, 124 
Hare, English, 123 

„ Scotch, 123 
Haricot Bean, a la Conde, 95 
Hotch-Potch, 116 
Ivory, 118 

Jacobin's Pottage, 115 
Julienne, 80 
Kale, Scotch, 92 
Lady Morgan, 101 
Leek, 92 
Lentil, 96 

Lettuce, Braised, 93 
Lobster, 99, 100, 101 
Lord Warden, 113 
Macaroni, 126 

,, and Cheese, 130 
Maigre, 91 

,, Benedictine, 90 

„ Pumpkin, 90 
ii la Meg Merrilies, 124 
Minestra, 135 
Minestrone, 135 
Mock Turtle, 105 

,, „ h I'Amiral Duperre, 

106 

,, ,, Parisian, 107 

Mulligatawny, 116, 117 

White, 117 
Mutton Tea, 79 
Nouille, 127 
Old Scotch Brown, 113 

,, ,, AYhite, 109, 110 
Onion, 89 
Ox-Runip, 111 



mDEX TO RECIPES. 



487 



SotJPS {contiuiieiT) : — 
Ox-Tail, 111 
Oyster, 103 
Parmeutier, 80 
Pea and Cucumber, 92 
„ French Split, 88 
,, Green, 83 
,, Old-fashioned, 86 
Pepper-Pot, 137 
Poacher's, 12-1 
Potage a la Clennont, 89 
,, alaDiable, 113 
,, Priutanier. 82 
„ a la Peine, 109, 110 
Potato, 80 
Pot-au-Feu, 77 
Puchero, 132 

„ Mexican, 132 
Pumpkin Maigre, 90 
Pui-t'e of Fowl, 119 
„ of Game, 120, 121 
,, of Hare, 120 
,, of Partridges, 121 
,, of A\Tiite Beans, 120 
Queen, 109 
Rabbit, 118 
Ravioli, 116 
Eice, 127 

Sago, with Turnips, 128 
St. Germain, 83 
Scotch Barley Broth, 128 
„ Hare, 123 
„ Kale, 92 
Sharp, 138 

Sheep's Head Broth, 108 
SoiTcl, 83 
Spaghetti, 126 
Spring, 82 
Sweet Milk, 126 
Tomato, 95 
Turnip, 95 

Turtle, Mock, 105-107 
Veal Tea or Broth, 79 
Vennicelli, 125 
"Wliite Stock, 77 
Young CaiTot, 85 
Sowins, 461 

„ Scotch, 462 
Spaghetti, 126 
Spanish Crusts, 385 
,, Sauce, 347 
Spiced Beef, 305 
Spinach Pudding, 357 
,, Pm-ueof, 358 
Spitchcocking Eels, 178 
Sprats, Baked, 201 
,, Broiled, 200 
Spring Soup, 82 
Stcht Soup, 114 



Steak, Beef, 302 

,, Chateaubriand, 302 
Stew A la Bouchc, 112 
,, Hessian, 315 
,, Mutton, Irish, 316 
,, Navarin, 316 
,, Queen Blanche, 226 
"Steward's" French Beans, 364 
,, Potatoes, 360 

,, Sauce, 348 

Stewed Beef, 307 
,, Carp, 194 
,, Cheese, 397 
,, Cod, 159 
,, Cucumbers, 359 

Eels, 179 
,, Kidneys, 226 
,, Oysters, 183 
,, Partridges, 270 
,, Peas, 369 
„ Quails, 267 
,, Shoulder of Mutton, 310 
Stock, Consomme, 77 
Strawberries, Preserved, 467 
Stuffed Egg Fruit, 458 
Sturgeon, Fresh, 202 
Succotash, 464 
Sucking Pig, Roast, 243 
" Surprise " Eggs, 395 
"Surijrises " in Ice Creams, 72, 73 
Sweet Milk Soup, 126 
,, Omelette, 431 
,, Sauce, 348 
Sweets (alphabetically arranged), 402- 

444 
Sweetbread, Croquettes of, 286 

Pie, 216 
Sweetbreads, " Dauphin " Fashion, 217 
,, Rissoles of, 236-287 

,, Scoliosis of, in Cases, 217 

,, ,, with Green 

Peas, 216 
Sweetmeat Tarts, 440 
Swiss Puddmg, 440 



Tapioca Puddings, 441 
Tart, Angehca, 404 

„ Fig, 418 

,, Orange, 432 

,, Raspbeny, 439 
Tarts, Sweetmeat, 440 

,, Transparent, 441 
Tartar Sauce, 348 
Terrapin, 9, 10 
Thickenings, 351, 352 
Timliale of Macaroni, 239 
Toad-in-a-Hole, 319 
Toast, German, 241 



488 



THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 



Toasted Cheese, 397 
Tomato Sauce, 349 

,, Soup, 95 
Tongue, Neat's, au Gratin, 297 
Tongues, Sheep's, h. la Saint Lambert, 
298 
with Stewed Endive, 218 
Toulouse Sauce, 350 
Tranches Yiennoises a la Tomate, 384 
Transparent Pudding, 441 

« Tarts, 441 

Trifle, 442 
Tripe, to Boil, 298 

, , a la Bourgeoise, 299 
,, Roast, 246 
Trout, to Cook, 196 
Tunny, 382 
Turban of Fillets of Rabbits, 212 

„ of Peas and French Beans, 359 
Turbot, to Dress, with Capers, 151 
,, Fillets of, a la Creme, 149 
,, Gratin of Fillets of, 150 
,, Petites Timballes of Fillets of, a 

la V^u(?tieune, 152 
,, Vol-au-Yent d'Escalopes de, au 
Bon Beurre, 151 
Turkey, Galantine of, 213 
Turkish Sherbet, 452 
"Turned" Sauce, 350 
Turnip Soup. 95 
Turtle Soup, Mock, 105, 106 



U 



rTniversal Sauce, 350 



Vacherin with Cream, 442 

Vanilla Cream Ice, 445 

Veal, Boiled Knuckle of, 295 
,, Breast of, ji la Poulette, 294 
,, Broth, 79 
,, Cutlets, 225 

J, ,, a la Mayonnaise, 293 

,, Fillet of, h. la Bourgeoise, 293 
, , , , Italian Way, 293 

,, and Ham Patties. 223 
,, „ ,, Pie, 223 
,, Minced, a la Catalan, 295 
,, Neck of, a la Cr6me, 292 
), J, ,, :\ la Mirepoix, 291 
J, ,, „ with Sweet Herbs, 292 
,, Shoulder of, a la Bourgeoise, 231 
„ Tea, 79 

Vegetable Hash, 241 
Pie, 368 
,, Sauce, 350 

,, Soups, 96 



Vegetables: — 

Artichoke Pie, 372 
Artichokes, Bordeaux Fashion, 372 
,, Jerusalem, 373 

,, a la St. Cloud, 371 

Asparagus in Cream, 371 
,, in Croustade, 370 

,, Forced, in French Rolls, 

370 
, , Italian Fashion, 370 

,, Ragout of, 371 

Beans, Baked, 365 

„ a la Poulette, 305 
,, White Haricot, 365 
Beetroot. Fricass<?e of, 376 
Brussels Sprouts and Cucumbers, 358 
Cabbage Pudding, 357 
Cabbages, Ragout of, 357 
Calecaunou, 357 
CaiTot Pie, 366 
Cauliflower au Gratin, 356 

Loaf, 354 
Cauhflowers, 353, 354 

,, and Butter, 354 

,, Genoan Fashion, 355 

,, a la Mayonnaise, 355 

,, a la ReLue, 355 

Celery, Puree of, 374 
Cucumber Toast, 359 
Cucumbers, Ragout of, 359, 360 

Stewed, 359 
French Beans in Black Butter, 363 
,, ,, Brittany Fashion, 364 

,, ,, a la Frauoaise, 364 

,, ,, Pm-ce of , 365 

,, ,, to Ragout, 363 

,, „ "Steward's," 364 

Gumbo, 376 
Half- Glaze for, 353 
In a Mould, 368 
Indian Fagadu, 375 
Marrow Pie. 367 
Mushroom Pie, 373 
Mushrooms, Essence of, 374 

,, Grilled, 373 

Onions, Glazed, for Garnish, 353 

,, Puree of, 374 
Parsnip Fritters, 366 
Parsnips, Beans with, 366 
Peas, Stewed, 369 
Potato Cake, 361 

,, Cheese-Cakes, 363 
,, Fritters, 363 
., Omelette, 362 
,, Pudding, 361 
,, Rissoles, 362 
,, Souffle, 362 
,, Stuffing, 301 
Potatoes, "Steward's," 300 



INDEX TO RECIPES. 



489 



Vegetables {continued): — 
Puiupkin Pie, 3G7 

„ Puree of, 36S 
Salsaties with Beef Marrow, 375 
Spinach Pudding, 3.)" 
,, Piuve of, 358 
Veloutee Sauce, 347 
Venison, 288 

,, Jugged, 288 
,, Pie a rAmericaiue, 215 
„ Roast Neck of, 214 
Vermicelli Pudding, 443 

,, Soup, 12o 
Vinaigrette of Beef, 308 
Vol-au-Vent d'Escalopes de Torbot au 
Bon Beurre, 151 
„ of Lambs' Tails, 229 

W 

Wafers, Abnond, 403 
Water Ice, Lemon, 446 

,. Zootje (or Souchet), 170 
Welsh Pudding, 443 

,, Earebit, 397 
West Indian Pepper-Pot, 319 
Wheatears, to Roast, 266 
Wheatmeal Pomdge, 461 
White Beans, Piu'ee of, 120 

„ Cakes, 444 

,, Caper Sauce, 351 

,, Coffee, 454 

,, Fish Sauce, 351 

„ Fricasseed Chicken, 260 

„ ,, Rabbit, 260 



White Gibelots of Rabbits, 284 
,, Haricot Beans, 365 
,, Mulligatawny Soup, 117 
,, Pudding in Skins, 238 
,, Roux, 351 

„ Soup, Old Scotch, 109, 110 
„ Stock, 77 
Whitebait, 165 

,, Devilled, 166 

Whiting, Fillets of, Broiled a la Maitre 
d'Hotel, 165 
,, au Gratiu, 164 
,, Puddmg, 163 
Whitings, Broiled, 164 

,, Puddings of, k I'Ude, 163 

,, Quenelles of, 165 

Wild Boar's Head, 229 

,, Duck, Fillets of. Sauce for, 345 
,, Ducks k la Chasseur, 264 
„' ,, Pomeranian Sauce for, 14 
,, Fowl, Sauce for, 345 
Wine Soup, German, 136 
Woodcock, Salmi of, 279 
Woodcocks, to Roast, 280 
, , and Snipe, 280 

Y 

Yam Pudding, 444 

Yaourt, 2, 444 

York Ham with Spinach, 222 



Zootje (or Souchet), Flounders Water, 
170 



GENEBAL INDEX, 



American breakfasts, Popular, 4o7 

American formula for steaming oj'sters, 49 

American Cuisine, The, 7-10 ; divi- 
sible into three classes, 7 ; various 
American dishes, 8 ; pork and beans 
a national dish, 8 ; fresh-water tor- 
toises, 9 

B 

Bake well pudding a DerbyshLre dish, 407 

Barley or Millet JPorridge, 53 

"Basket," How to make, 409 

Black butter sauce admirable for all 
white fish, 393 

Bouillabaisse of fresh-water fish, 194 

Botdcttes, French, 33 

Breakfast Dishes, 20-23; meat at break- 
fast, 21 ; what should comprise an 
English breakfast moiu, 22 ; fruit 
before breakfast, 23; popular Ameri- 
can, 457 

British middle-class hash, 33 

C 

Cauliflowers, The best way to clean, 353 

Caviare, Flavour of, injured by contact 
with metal utensils, 386 

Chaudfroids : of tea, 67 ; of coffee, 67 

Cheese, 63-65 ; the antiquity of, 63 ; 
cheesecakes, 64 ; Welsh Babbit, or 
Rarebit, 64 

Chestnut pudding. An old-fashioned 
recipe for, 36 

Children, For the, 73-76; advisability of 
children taking their meals apart 
from their elders, 73 ; dietary for 
children, 74-76 

Chops, 53-59 ; Hannah Glasse's recipe 
for baked mutton chops, 53; the 
chop, so called, not to be found in old 
cookery books, 54; ''colloiis," 54; 
Francatelli's hint on chops, 54 ; how 
the French treat tough meat, 55 ; 
broiled mutton chops, 55 ; the com- 
parative advantages of frying and 
broiling, 55 ; the Marchioness of 



Londonderry's opinion, 55 ; Dr. 
Kitchiuer's sensible advice to cooks, 
56; various formulae for cooking 
chops, 57-59 ; the most economical 
way, 59 

Chutney, 29 

Cutlets, Louis XVIII. and his, 7 

Cobbett on potatoes, 44 

Coffee, How to make, 68-70 ; Dr. 
Kitchiner on coffee, 69; "clearing" 
coffee, 70 

Cold boiled sucking-iiig a favoimte 
Russian dish, 5 

Cold coffee, 67 

Cold fish, 50-51 

Cold tea, 66 

Collops, 54 

Confectionery, 37-39; Guntei-'s "Con- 
fectioner's Oracle," 37 

Cool Drinks, 65-67 ; tea, 66; coffee, 67; 
iced milk, 67 ; lemonade, 67 

Curious Easter Etrg. A, 46 

Curry, 28-30 ; English and Indian, 28 ; 
should be accompanied by chutney, 
29 ; various kinds of chutney, 29 

D 

Delmonico's, 10-12; "The Delmouic) 

Cook Book " and its author, 12 
Don Quixote's iitr/u/, 16-17 
Ducks, Wild, 14 
Dumas' definition of Minces, 63 

E 

Eggs, 46-47 ; Victor Hugo on, 46 ; a curi- 
ous Easter Egg, 46 ; omelettes, 47 

Elevated soup plates, 204 

English Curry, 28 

English dishes which have their counter- 
parts in foreign cuisines, vii. {I'lv- 
facc) 

F 

Fatherland, The Kitchen of the, 13-16 ; 
excellent qualities of the German 
ciiisine, 13; sauces and soups, 14; 
wild ducks, 14 ; salads and salad 
dressings, 15 



GENERAL INDEX. 



491 



Fife, The Duke of, and elevated soup 
plates, 204 

Fish, Cold, 50-51 

Fraucatelli on Chops, 54 

French Domestic Cookery, 5-7; the 
French system of cooking less expen- 
sive than tlie English, 5 ; why cookery 
has declined in Paris, 6 ; upper 
middle-class cookery in the Depart- 
ments of France, 6 ; French made- 
dishes, 6 ; Louis XVIII. and his 
twenty-four cutlets, 7 ; other French 
dishes, 7 

French gourmets and real turtle, 107 

Fresh-water tortoises, 9 

Fruit as a preface to breakfast, 23 

G 

Gauffre-irons, Useful hints concerning, 

421 
German Cuisine {see Fatherland, The 

Kitchen of the) 
Gladstone, Mr'., on Ox-tail Soup, 111 
Goose-pie, 40 
Greek Cuisine, The, 1-3 ; the staple diet 

of the common people of Greece, 1 ; 

a Greek peasant's repast, 2 ; lish 

plentiful in the Greek islands, 2 ; 

the middle-class cuisine in Greece, 

2 ; honey in sweet and savoury 

dishes, 3 
Gunter's " Confectioner's Oracle," 37 

H 

Hash, 32-35 ; French boulcttcs, 33 ; 

American "hash-balls," 33 ; British 

middle-class hash, 33 ; how to make, 

34 ; the final boil up, 34 
Hitelets a Polish term for skewers, 183 
Hints to the cook, xiv.-xvii. {Preface); 

to the lady of the house, ix.-xiii. 

{Preface) 
Honey, Use of, in Greek sweet and 

savoiuy dishes, 3 
Hugo, Victoi-, on Eggs, 46 



Iced MUk, 67 

Ices, 70-73 ; when first they became 
fashionable, 70 ; when best eaten, 
71; how to make, 71-72; "sur- 
prises " in ice-creams, 72 

Indian Currj', 28 

Indigestion, Remarks on, 395, 396 

Italian Paste, Soups made from, 123 

K 

"Kickshaws," Origin of thetenn, 211 



Lady Morgan Soup invented by Careme, 

101 
Lemonade, 67 
Lettuce salad, 25 

M 

Macaroni, Risotto, and Polenta, 26, 27 

Meat at breakfast, 21 

Milk, Iced, 67 

Minces, 61-63 ; the earliest form of 

mincing, 62 ; sausages among the 

Greeks and Romans, 62 ; Dumas' 

definition of minces, 63 
"Mirepoix," Definition of, 119 
Monglas, inventor of the Puree of Fowl 

a la Monglas, 119 



Napoleon and his partiality to Potage a 

la Reine, 111 
Nesselrode Pudding, Recipe for, 35 

O 

Old-fashioned Puddings, 35-37 
Omelettes, Golden rule for preparing, 
xvi, {Preface) ; what they should be 
made of, 47 
Ox- tail Soup, Mr. Gladstone on, 111 
Oysters, 47-49; their use among the 
Romans, 48 ; Thackeray on large 
oysters, 48 ; an astute Roman epi- 
cure, 48 ; American formula for 
steaming, 49 



Parisian Cookery, why it has declined, 6 

Partridges, 60-61 

Patties, 39 

Periwinkles or whelks, A succulent soup 

made from, 104 
Pies, Patties, and Tarts, 39-41 ; the 

old English venison pasty, 39-40 ; 

goose-pie, 40 ; anecdote of King 

George IV., 40; raised pies, 40; 

American meat-pie, 40; " Vol-au- 

Vents," 41 
" Poele," How to make, 251 
Polenta, 27 
Pork and Beans, an American national 

dish, 8 
Porridge, 51-53 ; the ancient Romans and 

oat soup, 51 ; the Greek porridges, 

51 ; Americans and theu' variety of 

porridges, 52 ; barley or millet 

pon-idge, 53 
Potage a la Reine a favourite soup of 

Najioleon, 111 



492 



THE THOROUGH GOOD COOK. 



Potato Salad, 2-1 

Potatoes, 44-46 ; Cobbett on, 44 ; care 

requirecl with new, 44 ; a French 

mode of dressing, 45 
Puddings, Old-fashioned, 35-37 ; reci^je 

for Nesselrode pudding, 35 ; an old 

recipe for chestnut pudding, 36 
Puree of Fowl a la Monglas so named 

from the inventor, 119 

E 

Eisotto, 26 

Eossini a famous ffourmcf, 122 

Eussian Cuisine, The, 3-5 ; a Eussian 

dinner, 4 ; cold boiled sucking-iiig 

a favom-ite dish, 5 

S 

Salads among the Germans, 15 ; Sydney 

Smith on, 24 ; potato salad, 24 ; 

tomato salad, 24, 25 ; lettuce salad, 

25 
Salpicon of fowl, 254 
Savoiu-ies and Tit-Bits, 42-44 
Scottish Kitchen, The, 18-20; two 

mighty expositors of Scottish cuisine, 

18, 19 
Scrajis, 30-32 ; how they may be 

utUised, 31, 32 



Soup-plates, Elevated, 204 

Soups made from ItaUau paste, rules 

for, 126 
Spanish Cuisine, The, 16-18; Don 

Quixote's menu, 16, 17 
Sucking-pig a favoui'ite Eussian dish, 

5 
Sweet milk soup a favourite German 

dish, 126 
Sydney Smith on salads, 24 



Tarts, 39 

Thackeray on Oysters, 48 
Tide-water Tortoises, 9 
Tit-Bits {sec Savouries and Tit -Bits) 
Tomato Salad, 24, 25 
Tortoises, Fresh -water or Tide-water, 9 
Turtle, Eeal, disliked by French ffo;(r;Hf^y, 
107 



Vol-au-Vents, 41 



W 



Welsh Eabbit, or Earebit, mistaken for 

soup, 131 
Whelks or periwinkles, for soup, 104 
Wild Ducks, 14 






Printed by Cassell & Company, Limited, La Belle Sauyage, London, E.G. 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05493 408 6 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket 



AOU 111911 



^-h%.A. 



■ ."^n-^ '• 



.'"^^ 



1 •. , /Wl 



•i':,..:ii, 



A" ;v 










t^^'i, * \ 



S^JSf 



