LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 
-%^A 



,...l?l 



Ciiap.....!.._MJopyright No.. 
Shell..., ilZ^ 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



EVERY-DAY DISHES 



AND 



EVERY-DAY WORK 



«3* i3* 

By Mrs. E.e/ KELLOGG, A. M. 

Author of "Science in the Kitchen," etc. 



MODERN MEDICINE PUBLISHING COMPANY 

BATTLE CREEK, MICHIGAN 

1897 



V 



<^^ 



A 



Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1897, 

By JOHN HARVEY KELLOGG, 

In the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C. 



Also entered at Stationers' Hall, London, Eng. 



PREFACE. 



It has not been the purpose in the preparation of 
this book to furnish a complete compendium of cookery, 
but to present a selection of well-tested recipes for the 
healthful preparation of substantial dishes suited for 
use upon the " every-day " bill of fare in the average 
home. 

The limited space at the author's disposal has neces- 
sitated careful choice as to the subjects to be treated. 
The preference has been given to those foods least 
widely known, or to those which receive the least con- 
sideration in the ordinary cook-book, but which, on 
account of their economic and dietetic values, deserve 
to be better known and more commonly used ; and 
to suggestions for the simpler and more healthful 
preparation of many foods in common use. Those 
articles of food not treated in these pages are fully 
considered in the author's more complete work on 
cookery, "Science in the Kitchen." Some of the 
recipes contained in this book are taken from the larger 
work; others are the results of work carried on in the 
Experimental Kitchen of the Battle Creek Sanitarium 
Cooking-School since the first work was published. 

E, E. K. 



[3] 



INTRODUCTION. 



The purposes of food are to promote growth, to 
supply force and heat, and to furnish material to re- 
pair the waste" which is constantly taking place in the 
body. Every breath, every thought, every motion, 
wears out some portion of the delicate and wonderful 
house in which we live. The various vital processes 
remove these worn and useless particles; and in order 
to keep the body in health, their loss must be made 
good by constantly renewed supplies of material prop- 
erly adapted to replenish the worn and impaired tissues. 
This renovating material must be supplied through food 
and drink, and the best food is that by which the de- 
sired end may be most readily and perfectly attained. 

The great diversity in the character of the several 
tissues of the body makes it necessary that food should 
contain a variety of elements in order that each part 
may be properly nourished and replenished. The nu- 
tritive elements found in foods are albuminous com- 
pounds, starch, sugar, fats, and mineral substances. 
Besides these, most foods contain water and more or 
less indigestible material. 

The nutritive food elements are for convenience 
classified according to their chemical composition into 
three groups : nitrogenous elements, which include 
albumin, gluten, casein, and allied substances ; carbona- 
ceous elements, including starch, sugar, and fats , and 
inorganic, or mineral, elements. 

[5] 



6 INTRODUCTION. 

Each of these different groups of elements has a par- 
ticular work to perform in the maintenance of health, 
80 it is especially necessary that our food should con- 
tain some of each kind of elements. It is likewise 
essential that these elements, particularly the nitroge- 
nous and carbonaceous, should be supplied to the sys- 
tem in certain definite proportions, as the body is able 
to appropriate only a certain amount of each. More 
of the carbonaceous than of the nitrogenous elements 
are needed. One part nitrogenous material to every 
eight or ten parts carbonaceous, is, according to the 
latest authorities, a good proportion. 

Of the different nutritive elements, the nitrogenous 
is physiologically the most important, as these elements 
especially nourish the brain, nerves, muscles, and all 
the more highly vitalized and active tissues of the body, 
and also serve as a stimulus to tissue change. Hence 
it may be said that a food deficient in these elements is 
a particularly poor food. The carbonaceous elements 
furnish material for the production of heat and energy 
when used in connection with other food elements. 

The mineral elements aid in furnishing the requisite 
building material for bones and nerves. Most food 
substances are deficient in one or another of the food 
elements, and need to be supplemented by other foods 
containing the deficient element in superabundance, 
since to employ a dietary in which any one of the nu- 
tritive elements is lacking, although in bulk it may be 
all the digestive organs can manage, is really star- 
vation, and will in time occasion serious results. 

It will thus be apparent that great care should be 
exercised in the selection and combination of food ma- 



TABLE SHOWING THE NUTRITIVE VALUES OF SOME 
COMMON FOOD SUBSTANCES. 



FOOD 
SUBSTANCES. 




O 0) 

.2 a 
< 


o 
t-i 


fco 

3 
CO 

a 
O 


3 

a 


fa 
o 

0) 
S-i 

fa 




<i3 

X 

o 

9 

% 

o 




01 
3 . 

o!> 
H 


ai 


f Wheat, Poland 

Mich. White 

Rye 


13.3 

13.8 
8.7 
14. 
13. 
13.1 
13.0 
13.1 
84.8 
81.3 
80.4 
73. 
79.8 
78.3 
83.3 
81.2 
84.9 
80. 
85.7 
87.0 
7.3 
7.3 
7.1 
0.3 
0.5 
40.0 
80. 
88.5 
75. 
93.5 
87.5 
83. 
71.8 
93.7 
90.3 
80. 
93.4 
10.3 
13.5 
11. 
9. 
13.3 

86. 
60. 

88 
88. 
73. 
73. 
63. 
39. 
74. 
78. 
74. 


31.5 

11.6 

11. 

10.5 

10.7 

10.3 

0.7 

9. 

.4 

.5 

.5 

1.9 

.7 

.6 

.4 

.8 

.4 

.7 

.4 

1.1 

14.0 

15.8 

17.4 

23.5 

28.3 

5.6 

4. 

3.5 

2.2 

1.5 

1.3 

1.3 

1. 

1.8 

1.1 

1.7 

1.6 

24.6 

a5. 

33.7 
21.9 
25.9 

4.1 

2.7 

4. 

4.1 
19.3 
18.3 
105 

9.8 
31. 
18.1 
14. 


61.9 
71. 

74.6 
60.7 
58.3 
08.5 
78.5 
76.8 

09.' 
13. 

IM 
1.8 
8. 

5:i.6 
48.3 
55.6 
60.6 
53. 






1.5 

1.3 
1.9 
2.4 

7.8 

4.8 

.9 

.3 

".6 

".5 

2.4 

57.4 

62.6 

53. 

46.3 

35.9 

.9 

.6 

.3 

.3 

!i 

.6 
.2 

is 

.1 

.1 
.3 
3.5 
1.7 
2.3 
1.6 
1.9 

3.9 

26.7 

1.8 

.7 

3.6 

4.9 

15.8 

48.9 

3.8 

3.9 

10.5 


1.9 

1.6 

3.3 

3.6 

3.3 

1.4 

.8 

.8 

.5 

.8 

.4 

1. 

.7 

.5 

.3 

.7 

.7 

.7 

.5 

.8 

3.3 

2. 

3.5 

3. 

3.3 

1. 

1.6 

2. 

1. 

.7 

1.1 

1. 

.7 

.5 

.7 

.7 

.6 

3.6 

3.5 

3.7 

2.9 

3. 

.8 
1.8 

.8 

.8 
5.1 
4.8 
4.7 
2.3 
1.2 
1. 
1.5 


1.7 
1.5 

3.8 

17.9 

1.7 

.5 

1.5 
5.3 
7. 

.3 
5.9 
3.6 
4.4 
5.4 
4.3 
6.1 
7.4 
3.3 
3.4 
4.6 
3.3 
6.5 
13.9 
2.9 
1.9 
1. 

.3 
2.1 
1. 
8. 
1. 
1. 
1.3 

.7 

.8 
6.4 
8. 
3.8 
4. 
3.9 


2.9 
6.3 
6.9 
6.5 
6.1 
7.1 
1L8 
8.5 
18. 
9.3 
8.2 
13.5 
14.5 
33.8 
20.5 
7.7 
9. 
6.4 
9.7 
6.1 
4.8 
4.4 
4. 
2.6 
1.7 
7.8 
3.1 
1.4 
9.6 
2.1 
.1 
6.5 
25.5 
1.6 
6.1 
6.4 
2.8 
2.3 
2. 
2.4 
2.8 
2.1 

2.2 

11. 
1.4 
1. 
.18 
.26 
.95 

4.9 
.18 
.16 
.75 


86.8 
85.5 
89 8 






83 2 


Oats 


80.1 
84 9 




Rice 


80 9 






7.3 
4.6 
4.1 

10.3 
14.3 
8.3 
6.3 
3.6 
4.5 
3.9 
6.3 

i'.3 
.1 

".4 

1.4 

3.8 
3.5 


86 9 




("Apple 


13.7 






13 5 


cc 


Blackberry 


6.6 




Banana 


26 7 


U 


Cherry 


14.8 


fa. 


Grape 


18 2 


Pear 


12 4 


U 


Prune 


13 4 


W 


Plum 


10 8 


« 




13 9 






69 




L Strawberry 


10 1 






89 3 




Walnut 


88 3 


R 




89 7 


t^1 


Sweet Almond 

Peanut 


87.3 
79 6 




Cocoanut 


50.5 




' Winter Cabbage 

Spinach 


18.1 
10 5 




Potato 

White Turnip 

Beet 


34.4 
5.4 
11.5 

10 


« 

s 


Sweet Potato 

Asparagus 

Squash 


27.3 
5.3 
85 






13 3 




Tomato 


6.8 


p. 




83 3 


Beans, field 

French or Kidney 
Lima 




Milk 
Sug. 
5.2 
2.8 
3.8 
3.6 


78.5 
85.3 
87. 


Lentils 

Cows' milk 


83.8 
14. 






34. 


Skimmed milk 

Buttermilk 


10.4 
9.3 




Lean Beaf 


28. 


"< 1 


Lean Mutton 

Veal 

Pork 


28. 
37. 
61. 


H 




26. 


1^' 


White Fish 


22. 




Entire Egg 


26. 



[7] 



8 INTRODUCTION. 

terials, A careful study of the nutritive values of 
various foods is a matter of first importance in the 
selection of food for the daily needs of the household. 
The accompanying table of food analyses will serve as 
an aid to the housekeeper in this direction. 

A knowledge of the digestibility and proper prepa- 
ration of foods is likewise essential, since the fitness of a 
food to be good material for body building depends 
upon its digestibility, its palatability, and its adapta- 
bility to the needs of the user, as well as upon its 
nutritive value.* 

Simplicity of diet should also be a point of first 
consideration, since the simplest foods, as a rule, are 
the most healthful. Variety is needed ; but the ten- 
dency is to supply our tables with too many kinds, and 
to prepare each dish in the most elaborate manner, 
until in many households the cooking of the food 
has come to be almost the chief end of life. "While 
the diet of the family should be looked upon as of 
sufficient importance to demand careful consideration, 
its preparation should not usurp the larger share of 
one's time. 

A great variety of foods at one meal creates a love 
of eating as a source of pleasure merely, and likewise 
furnishes temptation to overeat. Let us have well- 
cooked, nutritious, palatable food, and plenty of it, 
with a suitable variety from day to day, but not too 
great a variety at each meal. 



1 In the author's larger work, " Science In the Kitchen," are given 
chapters on the digestion of foods and the principles underlying their 
proper selection and prepiiration, together with complete tables, showing 
the nutritive value of foods. 



CONTENTS. 



Paqb. 
Cereals 17 

Food Value of Cereals — General Directions for the Cooking 
of Grains — Grains for Breakfast — Dressing for Grains. 
Recipes. — Dressings for Grains: Grape Sauce — Lemon 
Sauce — Blueberry, Black Raspberry, and Strawberry 
Sauces. Wheat : Pearled Wheat — Cracked Wheat — 
Rolled Wheat — Boiled Wheat — Wheat with Raisins — 
Wheat with Fresh Fruit — Molded Wheat — Browned 
Wheat — Farina — Farina with Fig Sauce — Farina 
with Fresh Fruit — Molded Farina — Graham Grits — 
Wheat-Meal or Graham Mush — Wheat-Meal or Graham 
Mush with Dates — Plum Porridge — Wheat-Meal or 
Graham Apple Mush — Blackberry Mush — Peach Mush. 
Barley : Pearled Barley with Raisins — Pearled Barley 
with Lemon Sauce, Oatmeal : Oatmeal Mush — Oatmeal 
Fruit Mush — Oatmeal Blancmange — Oatmeal Blanc- 
mange No. 2 — Jellied Oatmeal — Rolled Oats — Oatmeal 
with Apple — Oatmeal Porridge. Corn, or Maize : Corn- 
Meal Mush — Corn-Meal Mush with Fruit — Corn-Meal - 
Cubes — Browned Mush — Samp — Cerealine Flakes — 
Hulled Corn — Coarse Hominy — Fine Hominy, or Grits. 
Bice : Boiled Rice — Steamed Rice — Steamed Rice No. 
2 — Rice with Fig Sauce — Orange Rice — Rice with Rai- 
sins — Rice with Peaches — Browned Rice — Browned 
Rice with Black Raspberry Sauce. Bye : Rolled Rye — 
Rye Mush. 
Macaroni .32 

To Select Macaroni — To Prepare and Cook Macaroni. 

Recipes. — Boiled Macaroni — Macaroni with Cream 
Sauce — Macaroni with Tomato Sauce — Macaroni 

[9] 



10 CONTENTS. 

Baked with Granola — Macaroni with Raisins — Maca- 
roni with Kornlet — Macaroni with Lentil Gravy — 
Macaroni with Lentil Dressing — Apple Macaroni — 
Peach Macaroni. 
Fermented or Yeast Bread 35 

How to Select Flour— To Keep Flour — Yeast —Tests for 
Yeast. 

Recipes for Liquid Yeast. — Raw Potato Yeast — Raw 
Potato Yeast No. 2 — Hop Yeast — Boiled Potato 
Yeast — Boiled Potato Yeast No, 2 — Raisin Yeast. 

Methods of Bread-Making — Care of the Bread — Light- 
ness of Bread — Temperature for Baking — Whole- 
Wheat Breads. 

Recipes.— Milk Bread with White Flour — Vienna Bread — 
Water Bread — Water Bread No. 2 — Fruit Roll — Fruit 
Loaf — Potato Bread — Pulled Bread — Mrs. F.'s Salt- 
Rising Bread — Whole-Wheat Bread — Whole-Wheat 
Bread No. 2 — Rye Bread — Graham or Wheat-Meal 
Bread — Graham or Wheat-Meal Bread No. 2 — Graham 
or Wheat-Meal Bread No. 3 — Graham or Wheat-Meal 
Bread No. 4 — Raised Biscuit — Rolls — Graham or 
Wheat-Meal Salt-Rising Bread. 
Unfermented or Aerated Bread 49 

Introduction of Air — Quality of Materials — Form — Heat 
of Oven — Dexterity in Mixing — Eggs — Oiling the Irons. 

Recipes. — Batter Breads: Whole-Wheat Puffs — Graham 
Puffs — Graham Puffs No. 2 — Currant Puffs — Graham 
Gems — Rye Puffs — Rye Gems — Corn Puffs — Corn 
Puffs No. 2 — Corn Puffs No. 3 — Corn Dodgers — Hoe 
Cake — Granola Gems — Bean Gems. Dough Breads : 
Breakfast Rolls — Sticks — Cream Graham Rolls — 
Fruit Rolls — Beaten Biscuit — Water Biscuit with 
Egg — Cream Crisps — Cream Crisps No. 2 — Graham 
Crisps — Fruit Crackers — Nut Crisps — Nut Sticks. 



CONTENTS. 11 

Fruit 57 

General Suggestions for Cooking Fruit — Knives to Use- 
Flavor— Spices — Degree of heat. 

Recipes. — Baked Apples — Citron Apples — Lemon 
Apples — Baked Pears — Baked Quinces — Baked Apple 
Sauce — Apples with Raisins — Apples with Apricots — 
Cranberries — Cranberries with Raisins — Cranberries 
and Sweet Apples — Oranges and Apples — Stewed Rai- 
sins — Dried Apples — Dried Apples with Other Dried 
Fruit — Dried Apricots and Peaches — Evaporated 
Peach Sauce — Dried Pears — Small Fruits — Prunes — 
Prune Marmalade: 

Suggestions for CANNma Fruit, — Self-sealing Cans — 
Sterilizing — Quality of Fruit — How to Cook the 
Fruit — Sugar — Methods of Canning. 

Recipes.— To Can Strawberries — To Can Raspberries, 
Blackberries, and Other Small Fruits — To Can Goose- 
berries—To Can Peaches — To Can Pears — To Can 
Plums — To Can Cherries — To Can Mixed Fruit — 
Quinces with Apples — Plums with Sweet Apples — To 
Can Grapes — To Can Crab-Apples — To Can Apples — 
To Can Pineapples — Grape Juice or Unfermented 
Wine — Grape Juice No. 2 — Fruit Sirup — Lemon 
Sirup — Tomatoes. 

The Leguminous Seeds .73 

How to Cook — Soft Water — Salt. 

Recipes. — Stewed Split Peas — Peas Pur^e — Mashed 
Peas — Split-Pea Succotash — Baked Beans — Baked 
Beans No. 2 — Stewed Beans — Mashed Beans — Stewed 
Lima Beans — Succotash — Pulp Succotash — Lentil 
Pur^e — Lentils Mashed with Beans — Lentil Gravy 
with Rice — Savory Lentils — Cooked Peanuts — Peanut 
and Tomato Pur^e. 



12 CONTENTS. 

Vegetables 

To Select Vegetables — Keeping Vegetables — Preparation 
and Cooking. 

Recipes. — Potatoes: Boiled Potatoes (in jackets) — Boiled 
Potatoes (without skins) — Steamed Potatoes — Roasted 
Potatoes — Baked Potatoes — Stuffed Potatoes — Broiled 
Potatoes — Mashed Potatoes — New Potatoes — Scalloped 
Potatoes — Stewed Potatoes — Potatoes Stewed with 
Celery — Potato Cakes — Warmed-over Potatoes — 
Baked Sweet Potatoes — Boiled Sweet Potatoes — 
Mashed Sweet Potatoes — Potato Hash. Turnips : 
Boiled Turnips — Chopped Turnips — Mashed Tur- 
nips — Scalloped Turnips. Parsnips : Baked Pars- 
nips — Boiled Parsnips — Mashed Parsnips — Parsnips 
with Cream Sauce — Parsnips with Egg Sauce — Stewed 
Parsnips with Celery. Carrots : Boiled Carrots — Car- 
rots with Egg Sauce — Stewed Carrots. Beets : Baked 
Beets — Beets and Potatoes — Beet Hash — Beet 
Greens — Beet Salad, or Chopped Beets — Boiled Beets. 
Cauliflower : Boiled Cauliflower — Cauliflower with Egg 
Sauce — Cauliflower with Tomato Sauce — Stewed 
Cauliflower — Scalloped Cauliflower. Cabbage : Boiled 
Cabbage — Cabbage and Tomatoes — Cabbage Celery — 
Cabbage Hash — Chopped Cabbage, or Cabbage Salad — 
Mashed Cabbage — Stewed Cabbage. Celery : Celery 
Salad — Stewed Celery — Celery with Tomato Sauce — 
Celery and Potato Hash. Asparagus : Asparagus and 
Peas — Asparagus Points — Asparagus with Cream 
Sauce — Asijaragus on Toast — Asparagus with Egg 
Sauce — Stewed Asparagus. Spinach : Spinach. Lettuce 
and Radishes : Lettuce — Lettuce Salad with Tomato 
Dressing — Radishes. Squash: Mashed Summer 
Squash — Summer Squash with Egg Sauce — Stewed 
Summer Squash — Baked Squash — Steamed Squash — 



CONTENTS. 13 

Tomatoes : Scalloped Tomatoes — Stewed Corn and To- 
matoes — Tomato Gravy — Tomato Salad — Stewed 
Tomatoes — Tomato with Okra. Vegetable Oysters : 
Scalloped Vegetable Oysters — Stewed Vegetable Oj'S- 
ters. Corn : Baked Corn — Baked Corn No. 2 — Boiled 
Green Corn — Stewed Corn Pulp — Stewed Green Corn — 
Summer Succotash — Stewed Peas — Lima Beans — 
Shelled Beans — String Beans. Gravies and Sauces for 
Vegetables : Brown Sauce — Cream or White Sauce — 
Celery Sauce — Egg Sauce — Pease Gravy — Tomato 
Gravy — Tomato Cream Gravy. 
Soups 96 

How to Prepare — Flavoring — Straining — Serving. 

Recipes.— Soups without Milk — Baked Bean Soup — Bean 
and Tomato Soup — Black Bean Soup — Bran Stock 
Combination Soup — Combination Soup No. 2 — Split Pea 
Soup — Swiss Lentil Soup — Tomato and Macaroni Soup 
— Vegetable Soup — Lentil and Corn Soup — Vegetable 
Pea Soup — Miss B.'s Fruit Soup — Fruit Soup No. 2 — 
Fruit Soup No. 3 — Fruit Soup No. 4 — Blueberry Soup — 
Mrs. H.'sSago Fruit Soup — Strawberry and Apple Soup 

— Miss B. 's Irish Corn Soup. Soups with Milk and Cream: 
Asparagus Soup — Bean and Potato Soup — Black Bean 
Soup — Brown Soup — Canned Green Pea Soup — Canned 
Corn Soup — Carrot Soup — Celery Soup — Celery Soup 
No. 2 — Combination Soup — Combination Soup No. 2 

— Cream Pea Soup — Cream Barley Soup — Green Corn 
Soup — Green Pea Soup — Green Bean Soup — Lentil 
Soup — Lentil and Parsnip Soup — Lima Bean Soup 

— Plain Rice Soup — Potato and Rice Soup — Potato 
Soup — Pea and Tomato Soup — Swiss Potato Soup — 
Tomato Cream Soup — Tomato and Okra Soup — To- 
mato Soup with Vermicelli — Vegetable Oyster Soup — 
Vegetable Soup. 



] 4 CONTENTS. 

Eggs ........... 108 

How to Choose Eggs — To Beat Eggs. 

Recipes. — Eggs in Shell — Eggs in Sunshine — Eggs 
Poached in Tomatoes — Eggs in Cream — Poached or 
Dropped Eggs — Poached Eggs with Cream Sauce — 
Quickly Prepared Eggs — Scrambled Eggs — Steamed 
Eggs— Scrambled Egg with Tomato — Plain Omelet. 

Desserts . 114 

Recipes. — Fruit Desserts : Apple Dessert — Apple Rose 
Cream — Baked Sweet Apple Dessert — Bananas in Sirup 

— Baked Bananas — Grape Apples — Prune Dessert. Des- 
serts of Fruit with Ch'aim, Bread, etc. : Barley Fig Pudding 

— Cocoanut and Corn-starch Blancmange — Corn-starch 
with Raisins — Corn-starch Fruit Mold — Cracked Wheat 
Pudding — Farina Blancmange — Farina Fruit Mold — 
Plain Fruit Pudding, or Brown Betty — Rice Cream Pud- 
ding — Rice Pudding with Raisins — Stewed Fruit Pud- 
ding — Apple Tapioca — Pineapple Tapioca — Banana 
Dessert — Raspberry Manioca Mold — Bread Custard 
Pudding — Boiled Custard — Cup Custard — Farina Cus- 
tard — Tapioca Custard— Steamed Fig Pudding. Sauces 

for Desserts and Puddings : Almond Sauce — Caramel 
Sauce — Cocoanut Sauce — Cranberry Pudding Sauce — 
Fruit Sauce — Fruit Sauce No. 2 — Lemon Pudding 
Sauce — Mock Cream — Orange Sauce — Peach Sauce — 
Plain Pudding Sauce — Red Sauce. 
Pastry 123 

Dietetic Evils of Pastries — General Suggestions for Ma- 
king Pies. 

Recipes. — Paste for Pies — Corn-Meal Crust — Bean Crust 

— Nut Crust — Paste for Tart Shells — Cream Filling — 
Grape Tart — Lemon Filling — Cocoanut Pie — Cream 
Pie — Cranberry Pie — Dried Apple Pie — Dried Apple 



CONTENTS. 15 

Pie with Raisins — Dried Apricot Pie — Farina Pie — 
Fruit Pie — Pumpkin Pie — Pumpkin Pie No. 2 — Pump- 
kin Pie without Eggs — Simple Custard Pie — Squash Pie 

— Squash Pie without Eggs — Sweet Apple Custard Pie 

— Sweet Potato Pie. 

Cake 130 

General Suggestions — Eggs — Fruit — Measuring Mate- 
rial — Degree of Heat. 

Recipes.— Delicate Cup Cake — Plain Buns — Sponge Cake 

— Sugar Crisps — Cream Sponge Cake— Miss H.'s Sun- 
shine Cake — Layer Cake — Orange Cake — Pineapple 
Cake— Mrs. N.'s White Sponge Cake — Fruit and Nut 
Sponge Drop Cake. 

Toasts .... ..... 134 

Zwieback — How to Make — How to Serve. 

Recipes. — Apple Toast — Apricot Toast — Asparagus 
Toast — Banana Toast —Berry Toast — Berry Toast No. 
2 — Celery Toast — Cream Toast — Cream Toast with 
Poached Egg — Cherry Toast — Gravy Toast — Dry Toast 
with Hot Cream — Grape Toast — Lentil Toast — Prune 
Toast — Peach Toast — Snowflake Toast — Tomato Toast 
—Vegetable Oyster Toast. 

The Battle Creek Sanitarium Health Food Company's 
Products ......... 139 

Granola.— Recipes : Granola Mush — Granola Fruit Mush 
Granola Peach Mush — Raspberry Granola Mush — Grape 
Granola Mush — Granola and Gluten Mush — Granola 
Crust for Pies — Prune Filling for Pie — Dried Apple Fill- 
ing — Custard Filling — Lemon Filling — Berry Pilling. 

Granose.— iJea^pe*.- Granose Fruit Dessert — Granose with 
Egg — Granose Pudding— Granose Fruit Custard — 
Molded Granose Dessert— Granose Dumplings — Qra- 



16 CONTENTS. 

nose Dumplings with Nut Meal — Granose Drop Cakes — 
Granose Shortcake — Granose Biscuit. 
Crystal Wheat. — Recipes: Crystal Wheat — Brown Bread 

— Brown Bread No. 2. — Vegetable Roast — Vegetable 
Roast No 2. — Crystal Wheat Custard Pudding — Crystal 
Wheat Fruit Pudding. 

Gluten. — Becipes : Qlnien Gruel — Gluten Gruel No. 2 — 
Gluten Cream — Gluten Meal Gruel — Gluten Mush with 
Dates — Gluten Custard — Gluten Gravy — Lemon Glu- 
ten Gruel — Gluten Meal Gems — Gluten Mush — Tomato 
Gluten — Tomato Gluten No 2. — Gluten Bread Relish. 

Nut Butter and Nut Meal. — Recipes: A Quickly Pre- 
pared Soup — Nut Butter Pie-Crust — Baked Cabbage — 
Lentil and Tomato Soup — Nuts with Lentils — Lentil 
Dressing — Nut Sauce — Nut Butter Sandwiches — Al- 
mond Meal Gems — Nut Butter Puflfs. 

NuTTOSE. — Recipes: Stewed Nuttose — Stewed Nuttose 
with Tomato — Potato Stew with Nuttose — Nuttose 
Hash — Nuttose with Green Vegetables — Nuttose Sand- 
wich — Nuttose with Lettuce. 

Zwieback — Carlsbad Zwieback — Grades, 

Caramel-Cereal. —Results of Using Tea and Coflfee — 
Recipe. 

Hints about Every=Day Work ... 153 

Economizing Time — System in Work — Program — Daily 
Morning Program of Kitchen Work — Economizing Money 

— Economy of Material — Uses of Stale Bread — Left- 
over Grains — Left-over Vegetables — Left-over Meats — 
Left-over Milk — Waste of Fuel — General Suggestions 
for Economical Housework — Order of Clearing the Ta- 
ble — Washing the Dishes — Dish-cloth and Towels — 
Cleaning Silver — Care of Table Linen — Disposal of 
Garbage- 



Every-Day Dishes. 



^'' OME one has said that life to the average man is 
i^X but a series of incidents between meals. It is 
certainly often scarcely more than this to the aver- 
age woman who serves her household as caterer 
and cook ; while the question of what to provide for 
these same meals is frequently an ever-present and 
perplexing one. ' ' If meal-getting were only an occa- 
sional occurrence," said a housekeeper the other day, 
"the question would be more easily solved, but it is 
the never-ceasing round of every-day dishes that must 
be provided, — seasonable, palatable, and yet within 
the bounds of economy, — that taxes one's ingenuity 
and patience until she is tempted to wish life could be 
as well sustained without eating." Doubtless there 
are many housekeepers in whose hearts these sentiments 
find a responsive echo ; but since no provision has been 
made whereby we may live without eatmg, it may per- 
haps be well to investigate some of the ways and means 
by which meal-getting may be made less difficult and 
laborious. 

We shall need to begin, however, with these same 
every-day dishes, since it is these that furnish the ma- 
terial from which are manufactured the brains with which 
to solve life's intricate problems, and the strength and 
sinews with which to bear its burdens and carry for- 
ward the world's work. They are, in fact, the founda- 
2 [17] 



18 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

tion upon which health, strength, and much of life's 
success and happiness are built, and that they should 
be of a character to produce the very best building 
material is a matter of the utmost importance. 

Food Value of Cereals. — The various cereals 
and their prepared products are, for several reasons, 
among the first and most important foods to be consid- 
ered for every-day use : — 

1. They are among the most abundant of all the 
foods which nature has supplied for man's use. 

2. They rank pre-eminent among nutritious foods. 

3. They are easily prepared, and when well-cooked, 
are easy of digestion and very palatable. 

4. They are among the most economical of foods. 
Notwithstanding the important place these foods are 

fitted to hold in the dietary of man, aside from their 
use in the production of bread and an occasional dish 
of corn-meal, rice, or oatmeal, the cereals are seldom 
found among the dishes in common use in this country, 
though in many other lands, grains form the staple diet 
of a large proportion of the people. The most muscu- 
lar men in all Europe are said to be the Russian grena- 
diers and the Scottish Highlanders, both of whom live 
chiefly upon a diet of grains, the one upon rye, the 
other upon oats. The strongest, most enduring races 
of ancient times were those whose diet was largely 
composed of grains. There can be no doubt that a 
more universal use of grain foods would exert a most 
salutary influence upon the condition of mankind at the 
present day. 

Variety is quite as essential in the use of the cereals 
as in other foods. The great number of grain products 



CEBEAL8. 19 

found in the market, and the fact that they are nearly 
equal in cost, make it possible to employ a greater 
variety of this class of foods than of almost any other. 

Undoubtedly the grain products would be held in 
higher esteem, were they more commonly well cooked. 
The cooking of grains is a very simple matter in itself, 
but through lack of care or knowledge it is seldom 
properly done. An improperly cooked grain food is 
as detrimental to health as a properly cooked one is 
beneficial. A grain simply because it is a grain is by 
no means warranted to fulfil its true mission unless 
properly prepared. 

General Directions for the Cooking of 
Grains. — For the cooking of grains a double boiler 
or steam-cooker is desirable. If one possesses neither 
of these, a substitute for a double boiler may be impro- 
vised from two earthen crocks, one enough smaller so 
that it can be placed within the other and leave a space 
around it for water. It may then be used upon the 
stove or within the oven. A granite-ware basin placed 
within an ordinary steamer over a kettle of boiling water 
also answers the purpose very well. Grains may be 
cooked on the stove in an ordinary kettle, but the diffi- 
culties to be encountered, in order to prolong the cook- 
ing sufficiently and at the same time prevent burning, 
make it, however, the least desirable utensil for this 
purpose. 

All grains should be carefully looked over before be- 
ing put to cook. 

The supply of grains should be stored in a perfectly 
dry place, and protected from air and moisture, or 
they are apt to have a musty flavor when cooked. 



20 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

The following points should be observed in the cook- 
ing of grains : — 

1. Measure both liquid and grain accurately with the 
same dish, or with two of equal size, 

2. Have the water boiling when the grain is intro- 
duced, but do not allow it to boil for a long time pre- 
viously, until it is considerably evaporated, as that will 
change the proportion of water and grain sufficiently to 
alter the consistency of the grain when cooked. 

3. Introduce the grain slowly, so as not to stop the 
boiling of the water, and let it boil rapidly until the 
grain- ceases sinking to the bottom, and the whole be- 
comes thickened. If the grain is cooked in a double 
boiler, this first boiling should be done with the inner 
dish directly over the fii^e, and when the mixture has 
thickened, the dish containing it should at once be 
placed in the outer boiler, the water in which should 
be boiling. It will then require no further care during 
the entire cooking, save to keep the outer boiler filled 
and the water boiling. 

If the grain is to be cooked in a steam-cooker, as 
soon as thickened, it may be turned into a china or an 
earthen dish suitable for use on the table, and placed 
at once in the steamer to complete the cooking. If an 
ordinary kettle is used, as soon as the mush is thick- 
ened, it is well to place it upon an iron ring or brick on 
some part of the range where it will just simmer, for 
the remainder of the cooking. 

4. Stir the fine grains constantly until thickened, but 
not at all afterward. 

5. Cook continuously. If it be necessary to replen- 
ish the water in the outer boiler at any time, let it be 
done with water at boiling temperature. 



CEREAtS. 21 

6. If salt is to be used, put it into the water before 
the grain is introduced. 

7. Most important of all, cook completely. The 
almost universal water-brash in Scotland, and much of 
the indigestion in this country, are due to the use of 
imperfectly cooked grains. 

Grains for Breakfast. — Since hasty prepara- 
tion will not suffice to cook grains healthfully, they 
cannot be conveniently cooked in the morning in time 
for breakfast. This difficulty may be obviated by cook- 
ing them the day previous, and reheating as follows : — 

Place the grain, when sufficiently cooked, in the 
refrigerator or some place where it will cool quickly 
(as slow cooling may cause fermentation), to remain 
over night. If cooked in a porcelain-lined or granite- 
ware double boiler, it may be left undisturbed. If 
cooked in tin or iron, turn the grain into a large earthen 
or china dish. To heat in the morning, fill the outer 
boiler with boiling water, place the inner dish contain- 
ing the grain therein, and steam till thoroughly heated 
through. No stirring and no additional liquid will be 
necessary ; and if placed upon the stove at the begin- 
ning of the preparations for breakfast, it will be ready 
for serving in good season. 

Cracked wheat, pearled wheat, oatmeal, and other 
coarse grain preparations to be thus reheated, require 
in cooking a half cup of water in addition to the quan- 
tity given in the recipe. For rolled wheat, rolled oats, 
rolled rye, and other crushed grains, no more is 
needed. Grains may be used for breakfast without 
reheating, if served with a hot dressing. 

Dressing for Grains. — The customary dressing 
for grains is a liberal allowance of sugar, with milk or 



22 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

cream. A much better plan is to dispense entirely 
with the sugar, the excessive use of which on grains is 
a frequent cause of digestive disturbance, using plenty 
of sweet cream or dressings prepared from fruits and 
fruit juices. These latter are easily prepared, and give 
a flavor and piquancy to the grain which is frequently 
relished much more than the ordinary dressing of cream 
and sugar, especially by children. Below will be found 
some of the many excellent dressings of this sort. 

It is desirable to eat grains in connection with some 
hard food to insure their retention in the mouth a suf- 
ficient time for proper insalivation. Toasted whole- 
wheat wafers, rolls, sticks, and unfermented zwieback 
are excellent for this purpose. Break two or three 
wafers into rather small pieces over each individual 
dish before adding the dressing. In this way a morsel 
of the hard food may be taken with each spoonful of 
grain. 

RECIPES. 

DRESSINGS FOR GRAINS. 

Grape Sauce. — Prepare by heating the juice of grapes to boil- 
ing, and slightly thickening with a little corn-starch, previously 
rubbed smooth in a small quantity of cold water. The pro- 
portions should be one tablespoonful of the starch to one pint 
of the fruit juice. If the juice is quite thick, dilute it with one- 
third water. Cook until thickened. Sweeten if desired. Strain 
to remove any lumps, and serve while hot. A dressing of hot 
grape-pulp may be used instead of this sauce, if preferred. 

Lemou Sauce. — Heat to boiling, in a double boiler, a pint of 
water in which are two slices of lemon, and stir into it a dessert- 
spoonful of corn-starch ; cook four or five minutes, or until it 
thickens. Squeeze the juice from one large lemon, and mix with 
it two thirds of a cup of sugar. Add this to the corn-starch mix- 
ture, and allow the whole to boil up once, stirring constantly ; 



CEREALS. 23 

then take from the fire. Leave in the double boiler, surrounded 
by the hot water, for ten minutes. Cool to blood heat before 
serving. 

Blueberry, Black Raspberry, and Strawberry Sauces. — Prepare 
the same as grape sauce, from the juice of canned or freshly 
cooked blueberries, black raspberries, or stravv^berries. The 
dressing may also be prepared by reducing the berries to a 
pulp and pressing through a colander, afterward sweetening 
slightly. Fresh berries prepared in this way make a delicious 
dressing. 

WHEAT. 

Pearled Wheat. — Heat a quart of water to boiling in the 
inner dish of a double boiler, and stir into it one cup or one-half 
pint of pearled wheat. Let it boil rapidly until it is thickened 
and the wheat has ceased settling ; then place in the outer boiler, 
in which the water should be boiling, and cook continuously 
from three to four hours. 

Cracked Wheat. — Cracked wheat may be cooked in the same 
manner as pearled wheat, by using four and one-half parts of 
water to one of grain. The length of time required to cook it 
thoroughly is about the same as for pearled wheat. 

Rolled Wheat. — This preparation of wheat requires only two 
and a half or three parts of water to one of wheat, according to 
the consistency desired when the grain is done. It should be 
cooked in the same way as pearled wheat, but requires only three 
hours' cooking. 

Boiled Wheat. — Select new wheat with plump kernels ; that 
which is freshly cut and well rubbed from the chaff is best for 
this purpose. Look it over carefully, wash, and put to cook in 
five times its measure of cold water. Let it come to a boil, 
and cook gently until the grains burst open, and they can be 
readily mashed between the thumb and finger. This will re- 
quire from four to ten hours, according to the age and variety 
of the wheat used. Less time will be needed if the grain is 
soaked over night. When done, it should be full of a rich, thick 
liquor. If necessary, add more boiling water, but stir as little 
as possible. 

Wheat with Raisins. — Raisins or Zante currants may be added 
to any of the foregoing recipes, if desired. The raisins or cur- 
rants should be well steamed previously, however, and stirred in 
lightly and evenly just before dishing. If cooked with the grain, 



24 EVERY-DAT DISHES. 

they become soft, broken, and insipid. Figs, well steamed and 
chopped, may be added in the same way. 

Wheat with Fresh Fruit. — Fresh whortleberries, blueberries, 
and blackberries stirred into any of the well-cooked wheat prepa- 
rations just before serving, make a very desirable addition. A 
most delicious dish may be prepared by stirring into well-cooked 
cracked wheat a few spoonfuls of rather thick cream and some 
fresh wild blackberries. Serve hot. 

Molded Wheat. — Cracked wheat, rolled wheat, or pearled 
wheat, cooked according to the foregoing recipes, and turned 
into molds until cold, makes a very palatable dessert, and may 
be served with cream or with fruit juice. Bits of jelly placed 
on top of the molds in the form of stars or crosses, add to the 
appearance. Molded grains are also very nice served with fresh 
berries, either mashed or whole, arranged around the mold. 

Browned Wheat. — Pearled, cracked, or whole wheat placed on 
shallow tins in the oven and slightly browned before cooking, 
make a pleasing variety in cereal foods. Cook the same as that 
which is not browned. 

Farina. — Heat a pint of milk and one of water, or if pre- 
ferred, a quart of milk, in the inner cup of a double boiler ; and 
when boiling, stir in five tablespoonfuls of farina, moistened 
evenly with a little milk. Let it boil rapidly until well thick- 
ened, which will be in about five or eight minutes ; then place in 
the outer boiler, and cook one hour. Serve cold or hot, with a 
dressing of cream or fruit juice. Farina may be cooked in 
water alone, if preferred. 

Farina with Fig Sauce. — Cook the farina as in the foregoing 
recipe, and serve hot with a fig sauce prepared as follows : — 

Carefully look over, wash, and chop or cut fine, enough good 
figs to make a cupful. Stew in a pint of water, to which has 
been added a tablespoonful of sugar, until they are a homoge- 
neous mass. If the figs are not of the best quality, and do not 
readily soften, it is well, after stewing for a time, to rub them 
through a colander or vegetable press to break up the tough por- 
tions and make a smooth sauce. Put a spoonful of the hot fig 
sauce on each individual dish of farina, and serve either with 
cream or without dressing. 

Farina with Fresh Fruit. — Cook the farina as previously 
directed. Have some sliced yellow peaches, mellow sweet 
apples, or bananas, in a dish ; turn the farina over them, stir 
up lightly with a fork, and serve hot with cream. 



CEREALS. 25 

Molded Farinat — Farina to be used cold may be cooked in 
the same manner as before described, with two or three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar added at the same time with the farina, and 
when done, molded in cups previously wet with cold water. 
Serve with a dressing of the juice of grapes or other fruit, 
whipped cream flavored with lemon, or mock cream flavored 
with cocoanut. 

Graliam Grits. — To four parts of water boiling in the inner 
dish of a double boiler add slowly, so as not to stop the boiling 
of the water, one part of graham grits. Stir until thickened ; 
then place in the outer boiler, and steam from three to five 
hours. Serve hot or mold in cups previously dipped in cold 
water, and serve with a dressing of fruit juice. Fig sauce, 
prepared as previously directed, is also excellent with gra- 
ham grits. A sauce prepared as directed for grape sauce, from 
canned or freshly stewed berries, is also excellent with this 
grain. 

Wheat- Meal or Graham Mush. — Good flour is the first requi- 
site for making good mush. Poor flour cannot be made into 
first-class mush. Flour made from the best white winter wheat 
is perhaps the best. It may be used either sifted or unsifted, as 
preferred. The proportion of flour and liquid to be used will 
necessarily vary somewhat with the quality of the flour, but 
in general, three parts of water to one of flour will be 
needed. Too much flour not only makes the mush too thick, 
but gives to it an underdone taste. Sprinkle the dry flour 
rapidly into boiling water (which should not cease to boil dur- 
ing the process), stirring continuously until a thick porridge 
is obtained. It is well to have it a little thinner at first 
than is desirable for serving, as it will thicken by cooking. 
Cook slowly at least one hour. A longer time makes it more 
digestible. 

Left-over graham mush, spread on shallow tins, and simply 
heated quickly in a hot oven, makes a palatable dish. 

Wheat-Meal or Graham Mush with Dates. — Prepare a mush 
as for graham mush. When done, place in the dish in which 
the mush is to be served, some nice, fresh dates from which 
the stones have been removed. Pour the mush over them, 
and stir up lightly, taking care not to break the fruit, and serve. 
Raisins previously steamed, or figs steamed and cut in pieces, 
may be used instead of dates. Serve hot with cream, or mold 
and serve cold. 



26 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

Plum Porridge.— Prepare a wheat-meal or graham mush as 
previously directed, and when done, add to it a cup of well- 
steamed raisins and suflficient rich milk to thin it to the consist- 
ency of porridge. 

Wheat-Meal or Graham Apple Mush. — Prepare a smooth apple 
sauce of rather tart apples. Sweeten it slightly, and thin with 
boiling water. Have this mixture boiling, and add to it graham 
flour, sprinkled in dry, sufficient to make a well-thickened mush. 
Cook one hour, and serve hot with cream. 

Blackberry Mush. — Rub a pint of canned or freshly stewed 
and sweetened blackberries, having considerable juice, through 
a fine colander or sieve to remove the seeds. Add water to make 
a pint and a half cupful in all, heat to boiling, and sprinkle into 
it sufficient sifted wheat-meal or graham flour to make a mush 
of the desired thickness. 

Peach Mush. — Prepare the same as blackberry mush, using 
very thin peach sauce made smooth by rubbing through a col- 
ander. Freshly stewed or canned peaches or nicely cooked dried 
peaches are suitable for this purpose. Apples and grapes may 
be likewise used. 

BARLEY. 

Pearled Barley with Raisins. — Carefully look over and wash 
a cupful of pearled barley. Cook in a double boiler in five 
cups of boiling water for four hours. Just before serving, add a 
cupful of raisins which have been prepared by being allowed to 
stand in boiling water until swollen. 

Pearled Barley with Lemon Sauce. — Pearled barley cooked 
in the same manner, but without the addition of raisins, is ex- 
cellent served with a lemon sauce. 

OATMEAL. 

Oatmeal Mush. — Heat a quart of water to boiling in the inner 
dish of a double boiler, sift into it one cup of coarse oatmeal, 
and boil rapidly, stirring continuously until it thickens ; then 
place in the outer boiler, the water in which should be boiling, 
and cook three hours or longer. 

Oatmeal Fruit Mush. — Prepare the oatmeal as directed above, 
and stir in lightly, when dishing for the table, some sliced mel- 
low and juicy raw sweet apples. Strawberry apples and other 



CEEEALS. 27 

slightly tart apples are likewise excellent for the purpose. Well- 
ripened peaches and bananas may also be used if care is taken 
to preserve the slices whole, so that the dish may present an 
appetizing appearance. Both this and the plain oatmeal mush 
are best eaten with toasted whole-wheat wafers or some other 
hard food. 

Oatmeal Blancmange. — Soak a cupful of coarse oatmeal 
over night in a pint and a half of water. In the morning, beat 
the oatmeal well with a spoon, and afterward pass all the soluble 
portion through a fine strainer. Place the liquid in the inner 
dish of a double boiler, and cook for half an hour, or until 
thick enough to mold. Turn into cups, cool for fifteen or 
twenty minutes, and serve warm with cream or a dressing of 
fruit juice. 

Oatmeal Blancmange No. 2. — Take a pint of well-cooked oat- 
meal, add to it a pint of milk, or, better, part cream. Beat well 
together, and strain through a fine wire sieve. Turn the liquid 
into a saucepan, and boil for a few moments, until it is thick 
enough to drop from the point of a spoon ; then turn into cups 
previously wet in cold water, and mold. Serve with a dressing 
of fruit juice or whipped cream slightly sweetened, and flavored 
with lemon. 

Jellied Oatmeal.— Cook oatmeal or rolled oats with an addi- 
tional cup or cup and a half of water, and when done, turn into 
cups and mold. Serve cold with a hot dressing. 

Rolled Oats. — This preparation of oats should be cooked the 
same as oatmeal, but requires only three parts water to one of 
rolled oats, when cooked in a double boiler. 

Oatmeal with Apple. — Cold oatmeal which has been left over 
may be made into an appetizing dish by molding in alternate 
layers with nicely steamed tart apples, sprinkled lightly with 
sugar. Other cooked fruits, such as cherries, evaporated peaches, 
and apricots, may be used in the same way. A very pleasing 
dish is made by using between the layers ripe yellow peaches and 
plums sliced together, and lightly sprinkled with sugar. 

Oatmeal Porridge. — Into a quart and a half of water, which 
should be boiling in the inner dish of a double boiler, sprinkle 
one cup of rather coarse oatmeal. Boil rapidly, stirring mean- 
while until the porridge is thickened ; then place in the outer 
boiler, and cook continuously for three hours or longer. A half 
cup of cream added just before serving is a desirable addition. 



28 EVEEY-DAY DISHES. 



CORN, OR MAIZE. 

Corn-Meal Musk. — Stir together one pint of corn-meal, one 
tablespoonful of flour, and one pint of cold milk. Turn this 
slowly, stirring well meanwhile, into one quart of boiling water, 
which should not cease to boil during the introduction of the 
batter. Cook three or four hours. If milk is not at hand, water 
alone may be used, in which case two tablespoonfuls of flour 
will be needed. Cook in a double boiler. This is excellent 
served with grape sauce prepared as directed on page 22. 

Corn-Meal Miisli witli Fruit.— Mush prepared in the above 
manner may have some well-steamed raisins or chopped figs 
added to it just before serving. 

Corn-Meal Cubes. — Left-over corn-meal mush may be made 
into an appetizing dish by first slicing into rather thick slices, 
then cutting into cubes about one inch square. Put the cubes 
into a tureen, and turn over them a quantity of hot milk or 
cream. Cover the dish, let stand until the mush is thoroughly 
heated through, then serve. 

Browned Mush. — Slice cold corn-meal mush rather thin, 
brush each slice with thick, sweet cream, and brown in a mod- 
erate oven until well heated through. 

Samp. — Samp may be prepared by coarsely grinding newly 
ripened corn to about the fineness of cracked wheat. This 
may be done at home with a hand-mill. Put the samp in a 
rather deep dish ; pour some cold water over it, stir it well with 
a spoon, which will cause the chaff to rise to the top, when it 
may be turned off with the water. This process should be re- 
peated until the samp is well cleaned. Drain It by turning into 
a fine colander, and cook in four and one-half parts boiling 
water. Boil rapidly, stirring continuously until well thickened, 
then cook slowly from three to eight hours, the time being 
dependent upon the age of the corn from which the samp is 
prepared. 

Cereallne Flakes. — Into one measure of boiling liquid stir an 
equal measure of cerealine flakes, and cook in a double boiler 
from one half to three fourths of an hour. Cerealine with a 
dressing of grape juice makes a most palatable dish. 

Hulled Corn. — To Hull the Corn : Put enough wood-ashes 
into a large kettle to half fill it ; then nearly fill with hot water, 
and boil ten minutes. Drain off the water from the ashes, turn it 



CEKEALS. ' 29 

into a kettle, and pour in four quarts of clean, shelled field corn, 
white varieties preferable. Boil till the hulls will rub off. Skim 
the corn out of the lye water, and put it into a tub of fresh cold 
water. To remove the hulls, scrub the corn well with a clean 
stiff brush-broom kept for the purpose, changing the water 
often. Put through half a dozen or more waters, and then take 
the corn out by handfuls, rubbing each well between the hands 
to loosen the remaining hulls, and drop again into clear water. 
Pick out all hulls. Cleanse the corn through several more 
waters if it is to be dried and kept before using. Well-hulled 
corn is often found in the market. If preferred, a tablespoonful 
of carbonate of soda with water sufBcient to cover the corn may 
be used in which to boil the corn, in place of the prepared lye. 

To Cook : If it is to be cooked at once, it should be parboiled 
in clear water twice, and then put into new water and cooked 
several hours, or until tender. It should be nearly or quite dry 
when done. It may be served with milk or cream. 

Coarse Hominy. — For coarse hominy, use four parts of water 
or milk and water to one of grain. It is best steamed or cooked 
in a double boiler, though it may be boiled in a kettle over a 
slow fire. The only objection to the latter method is the need of 
frequent stirring to prevent sticking, which breaks and mashes 
the hominy. From four to five hours' slow cooking will be nec- 
essary, unless the grain has been previously soaked ; then about 
one hour less will be required. 

Fine Hominy, or Grits. — This preparation is cooked in the 
same manner as the foregoing, three and one half or four parts 
of water being used to one of the grain. Four or five hours will 
be necessary for cooking the unsoaked grits. 

RICE. 

Rice needs to be thoroughly washed to remove the earthy 
taste it is so apt to have. A good way to do this is to put it into 
a colander, in a deep pan of water. Rub the rice well with the 
hands, lifting the colander in and out of the water, and chang- 
ing the water until it is clear ; then drain. In this way the grit 
is deposited in the water, and the rice left thoroughly clean. 
Dry in the oven before using. 

Boiled Rice. — Rice to be boiled in the ordinary manner re- 
quires two quarts of boiling water to one cupful of rice. It 
should be boiled rapidly until tender, then drained at once, and 



30 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

set in a moderate oven to become dry. Picking over and lifting 
lightly occasionally with a fork will make it more flaky and dry. 
Care must be taken, however, not to mash the rice grains. 

Steamed Rice^ — Soak a cup of rice in one and a fourth cups 
of water for an hour, then add a cup of milk, turn into an 
earthen dish suitable for serving it in, and place in a steam- 
cooker or in a covered steamer over a kettle of boiling water, and 
steam for an hour. It should be stirred with a fork occasionally, 
for the first ten or fifteen minutes. 

Steamed Rice No. 2. — Look over and thoroughly wash one 
cup of rice. Drain, spread thinly on a shallow dish, and dry in 
the oven. Even should it become a trifle yellowed, no harm is 
done. Introduce the rice into two cups of boiling water, place 
in a steamer, and allow it to cook one hour without stirring. 
Rice should not be cooked in a vessel where it will be more 
than three inches deep, or the weight of the upper part will 
crush the lower, and make it soggy. 

Rice witli Fig Sauce. — Steam a cupful of best rice as directed 
above, and when done, serve with a fig sauce prepared as di- 
rected on page 24. Dish a spoonful of the fig sauce with each 
saucer of rice, and serve with plenty of cream. Rice served in 
this way requires no sugar for dressing, and is a most wholesome 
and palatable breakfast dish. 

Orange Rice. — Wash and steam the rice according to the 
directions already given. Prepare some oranges by separating 
into sections and cutting each section in halves, removing the 
seeds and all the white portion. Sprinkle the oranges lightly 
with sugar, and let them stand while the rice is cooking. Serve 
a portion of the orange on each saucerful of rice. 

Rice with Raisius. — Carefully wash a cupful of rice, soak it, 
and cook as directed for steamed rice. After the rice has begun 
to swell, but before it has softened, stir into it lightly, using a 
fork for the purpose, a cupful of raisins or Zante currants. Serve 
with cream. 

Rice witli Peaches. — Steam the rice as previously directed, 
and when done, serve with cream and a well-ripened peach 
pared and sliced on each individual dish. 

Browned Rice. — Spread a cupful of rice on a shallow baking- 
tin, and put into a moderately hot oven to brown. It will need 
to be stirred frequently to prevent burning and to secure a uni- 
formity of color. Each rice kernel, when sufficiently browned, 



CEREALS. 31 

should be of a yellowish brown, about the color of ripened 
wheat. Steam the same as directed in tlie recipe for steamed 
rice No. 2, using two cups of water for each cup of browned 
rice. When properly cooked, each kernel will be separate, 
dry, and mealy. Rice prepared in this manner is undoubtedly 
more digestible than when cooked without browning. 

Browned Rice with Black Raspberry Sauce. — Prepare the rice 
as directed in the preceding recipe, and when cooked, serve hot 
with a sauce prepared by pressing canned or freshly stewed black 
raspberries through a fine colander, to remove the seeds. The 
sauce should be about the consistency of cream. Serve hot or 
cold as desired. 

RYE. 

Rolled Rye. — Into three parts water boiling in the inner dish 
of a double boiler, stir one part rolled rye. Boil rapidly until 
set, stirring meanwhile, then place in the outer boiler, and cook 
for three or more hours. 

Rye Htlnsh. — Sift a cupful of rye-meal slowly through the fin- 
gers into three and three-fourths cupfuls of water, which should 
be boiling on the stove in the inner dish of a double boiler. Stir 
until thickened, then place in the outer boiler, and cook for 
an hour or longer. 



MACARONI. 



Macaroni is a product of wheat. It is called by- 
different names according to its shape. If in the shape 
of large, hollow cylinders, it is macaroni ; if smaller 
in diameter, it is spaghetti / if fine, i)ermicelli / if the 
paste is cut into fancy patterns, it is termed pasta 
d? Italia. Like all cereal foods, macaroni should be 
kept in a perfectly dry storeroom. 

To Select Macaroni. — Good macaroni will keep 
in good condition for years. It is rough, elastic, and 
hard ; while the inferior article is smooth, soft, breaks 
easily, and becomes moldy with keeping. Inferior 
macaroni, when put into hot water, assumes a white, 
pasty appearance, and splits in cooking ; good maca- 
roni, when put into hot water, absorbs a portion of the 
water and swells to nearly double its size, but retains 
its shape perfectly. 

To Prepare and Cook Macaroni. — Do not 
wash macaroni. If dusty, wipe with a clean, dry 
cloth. Break into pieces of convenient size. Always 
put to cook in plenty of boiling water ( as it absorbs a 
large quantity), and cook until tender. The length of 
time required will vary from twenty minutes, if fresh, 
to one hour if stale. When tender, turn into a colan- 
der and drain, and pour cold water through it to pre- 
vent the tubes from sticking together. It may also 
be cooked in milk, soup stock, tomato juice, or any 
[32j 



MACAKONI. 33 

preferred liquid. Macaroni serves as an important 
adjunct in the making of various soups, and also 
forms the basis of other palatable dishes. 

RECIPES. 

Boiled Macaroni. — Break sticks of macaroni into pieces 
about an inch in length, sufficient to fill a large cup ; put it into 
boiling water and cook until tender. When done, drain thor- 
oughly, then add a pint of milk ( part cream is preferable ), a 
little salt, and one well-beaten egg ; stir over the fire until it 
thickens, and serve hot. 

Macaroni with Cream Sauce. — Cook the macaroni as directed 
above, and pour over it, before serving, a cream sauce prepared 
by heating a scant pint of rich milk to boiling, in a double 
boiler. When boiling, add a heaping tablespoonful of flour 
rubbed smooth in a little milk and one-fourth teaspoonful of 
salt. If desired, the sauce may be flavored by steeping in the 
milk for ten or fifteen minutes before thickening, a slice of onion 
or a few bits of celery, and then removing with a fork. 

Macaroni witli Tomato Sauce. — Break a dozen sticks of mac- 
aroni into two-inch lengths, and drop into boiling water. Let it 
boil until perfectly tender. In the meantime, prepare the sauce 
by rubbing a pint of stewed or canned tomatoes through a 
colander to remove all seeds and fragments. Heat to boiling, 
thicken with a little flour, a tablespoonful to the pint being 
the requisite proportion. Add salt and, if desired, a half cup 
of very thin sweet cream. Dish the macaroni in individual 
dishes, and serve with a small quantity of the sauce poured over 
each dish. 

Macaroni Baited witli Granola. — Break into pieces about an 
inch in length sufficient macaroni to fill a large cup, and cook 
until tender. When done, drain, and put a layer of the macaroni 
in the bottom of an earthen pudding-dish, and sprinkle over it a 
scant teaspoonful of granola. Add a second and third layer, and 
sprinkle each with granola ; then turn over the whole a custard 
sauce prepared by mixing together a pint of milk, the well-beaten 
yolks of two eggs or one whole egg, and one fourth of a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Care should be taken to arrange the macaroni 
in layers loosely, so that the sauce will readily permeate the 
3 



34 EVEEY-DAY DISHES. 

whole. Bake for a few minutes only, until the custard has well 
set, and serve. 

Macaroni with Raisins. — Break into inch lengths sufficient 
macaroni to fill a half-pint cup. Heat four cups of milk, and 
when actively boiling, put in the macaroni and cook until 
tender. Pour boiling water over a half cup of raisins, and let 
them stand until swollen. Ten or fifteen minutes before the 
macaroni is done, add the raisins. Serve hot with or without 
the addition of cream. 

Macaroni witli Kornlet. — Break macaroni into inch lengths, 
and cook until tender. Prepare the kornlet by adding to it 
an equal quantity of rich milk or thin cream, and thickening 
with a little flour, a tablespoonful to the pint. When done, 
drain the macaroni, and add the kornlet in the proportion of a 
pint of kornlet mixture to one and one-half cups of macaroni. 
Mix well, turn into an earthen dish, and brown in a mod- 
erate oven. Left-over kornlet soup, if kept on ice, may be util- 
ized for this breakfast dish, and the macaroni maj' be cooked 
the day before. Green corn pulp may be used in place of the 
kornlet. Instead of the milk, nut butter dissolved in water, 
one tablespoonful to the pint of water, may be used. 

Macaroni witll Lentil Crrayy.— Cook the macaroni as previ- 
ously directed. Serve with a gravy prepared by cooking half a 
pint of brown lentils until tender. "When about half done, 
add, to flavor the lentils, one medium-sized onion cut in halves, 
or quarters. When the lentils are tender, remove the onion with 
a fork, and rub the lentils through a colander. Add sufficient 
boiling water to make about a pint and a half in all, reheat to 
boiling, and thicken with browned flour rubbed smooth in a 
little cold water. Let the gravy cook for two or three minutes, 
and serve as directed for tomato sauce. 

Macaroni with Lentil Dressing. — Cook the macaroni until 
tender, and serve with a lentil dressing. ( See page 76.) 

Apple Macaroni. — Stew enough nice tart apples to make 
about two pints and a half of rather thin sauce, sweeten a 
little, put into the inner cup of a double boiler, and heat to 
boiling. In this cook a cupful of macaroni broken into inch 
lengths, from one to two hours, till perfectly tender. Serve hot. 

Peach Macaroni. — Take freshly stewed or canned peaches, 
rub through a colander, and cook with macaroni in the same 
proportion and manner as for apple macaroni. 



FERMENTED OR YEAST BREAD. 



Bread, to answer the requirements of a good, whole- 
some article of food, besides being palatable, must be 
light, porous, and friable, so that it can be easily in- 
salivated and digested. It should contain as many as 
possible of the elements of nutrition, and should avoid 
ingredients which will in any way be injurious if taken 
into the system.' "Wheat, the substance from which 
bread is most generally made, contains all the necessary 
food elements in proper proportions to meet the re- 
quirements of nutrition ; and in order for the bread also 
to contain them, the flour from which it is produced 
must be made of the entire wheat berry. There are 
several varieties of such flour, it being variously termed 
wheat four, wlieat-lyerry flour, wheat meal, graham 
flour, etc. They differ only in the treatment given to 
the wheat kernel before grinding. 

How to Select Flour. — Good bread cannot be 
made without good flour. The quality of a brand of 
flour will of course depend much upon the kind of 
grain from which it is prepared — whether new or old ; 
perfect, or deteriorated by rust, mold, or exposure ; 
and also upon the thoroughness with which it has been 
cleansed from dust, chaff, and all foreign substances, 
as well as upon the method by which it is ground. 

It is not possible to judge of all these particulars by 
the appearance of the flour, but, in general, good flour 

[35] 



36 EVEKY-DAY DISHES. 

will be sweet, dry, and free from any sour or musty 
smell or taste. If, on taking up a handful, it falls 
from the hand light and elastic, it is pretty sure to be 
good. 

The dough which is made from good flour is elas- 
tic, and will retain its shape. This elastic property is 
due to the gluten. The gluten of good flour will swell 
to several times its original bulk, while that of poor 
flour will not swell. 

In buying white flour, do not select that which is 
pure white, with a bluish tinge, but that which is of a 
creamy, yellowish-white tint. Fine flour made from 
the entire grain may generally be distinguished from a 
spurious article by taking a small portion into the mouth 
and chewing it. Raw flour made from the entire grain 
has a sweet taste, and a rich, nutty flavor like that ex- 
perienced in chewing a whole grain of wheat, and pro- 
duces a goodly quantity of gum, or gluten ; while a 
spurious article tastes flat and insipid like starch, or 
has a bitter, pungent flavor resulting from the pres- 
ence of impurities. This bitter quality is also notice- 
able in bread made from such flour. 

Another test of flour is the fact that a given quantity 
of poor flour will not make as much bread as the same 
quantity of good flour. It is well to obtain a small 
quantity of flour first, and put it to the test of bread- 
making ; then, if satisfactory, purchase that brand so 
long as it proves good. It is true economy to buy a 
flour known to be good, even though it may cost more 
than some others. 

To Keep Flour. — Flour should always be kept in 
a tight receptacle, and in a cool, dry, well-ventilated 



FERMENTED BREAD. 37 

place. It should not be allowed to remain in close 
proximity to any substance of strong odor, as it very 
readily absorbs odors and gaseous impurities. A 
damp atmosphere will cause it to absorb moisture, and 
as a result, the gluten will lose some of its tenacity and 
become sticky, and bread made from the flour will be 
inferior in quality. Flour which has absorbed damp- 
ness from any cause should be sifted into a large tray, 
spread out thin, and exposed to the hot sun or placed 
in a warming-oven for a few hours. 

Yeast. — Next to good flour the most important req- 
uisite in the manufacture of fermented bread is good 
yeast. The best of flour, used with poor yeast, will not 
produce good bread. The most convenient and reliable 
kind of marketable yeast, when it can be had fresh, is 
the compressed yeast. The dry yeast cakes sold in 
packages are less to be recommended ; for, though they 
are always ready for use, the quality of the bread they 
produce is generally inferior to that made with either 
compressed yeast or good liquid yeast. If this sort of 
yeast must be depended upon, the cakes known as 
' ' Yeast Foam ' ' are the best of any with which the 
writer is acquainted. A great variety of good liquid 
yeasts are easily made, and many housekeepers prefer 
this to any other kind. 

Tests for Yeast. — Liquid yeast, when good, 
looks light and foamy ; has a pungent odor somewhat 
similar to weak ammonia, and a sharp, biting flavor. 
Yeast is poor when it looks dull and watery, and has a 
sour odor. Compressed yeast, if good, breaks off dry, 
and looks white ; if poor, it appears moist and stringy. 
If there is any question as to the quality of yeast, it is 



38 EVEEY-DAY DISHES. 

always best to test it before using by adding a little 
flour to a small quantity and setting it in a warm place. 
If it begins to lighten in the course of fifteen or twenty 
minutes, it is good. 

RECIPES FOR LIQUID YEAST. 

Raw Potato Yeast. — Mix one fourth of a cup of flour, the 
same of white sugar, and a teaspoonful of salt to a paste, with a 
little water. Pare three medium-sized, sound potatoes, and 
grate them as rapidly as possible into the paste ; mix all quickly 
together with a silver spoon, then pour three pints of boiling 
water rapidly over the mixture, stirring well at the same time. 
If this does not rupture the starch cells of the flour and potatoes 
so that the mixture becomes thickened to the consistency of 
starch, turn it into a granite-ware kettle and boil up for a min- 
ute, stirring well to keep it from sticking and burning. If it be- 
comes too much thickened, add a little more boiling water. It 
is impossible to give the exact amount of water, since the quality 
of the flour will vary, and likewise the size of the potatoes ; but 
three pints is an approximate proportion. Strain the mixture 
through a fine colander into an earthen bread-bowl, and let it 
cool. When lukewarm, add one cup of good, lively yeast. 
Cover with a napkin, and keep in a moderately warm place for 
several hours, or until it ceases to ferment. As it begins to fer- 
ment, stir it well occasionally, and when well fermented, turn 
into a clean glass or earthen jar. The next morning cover 
closely, and put in the cellar or refrigerator, not, however, in 
contact with the ice. It is best to reserve enough for the first 
baking in some smaller jar, so that the larger portion need not 
be opened so soon. Always shake the yeast before using. 

Raw Potato Yeast No. 2. — This is made in the same manner 
as the preceding, with the exception that one fourth of a cup 
of loose hops tied in a clean muslin bag is boiled in the water 
for five minutes before pouring it into the potato-and-flour mix- 
ture. Many think the addition of the hops aids in keeping the 
yeast sweet for a longer period ; but potato yeast may be kept 
sweet for two weeks without hops, if well cared for, and is pre- 
ferred by those who dislike the peculiar flavor of the bread made 
from hop yeast. 



FERMENTED BREAD. 39 

Hop Yeastt — Put half a cup uf loose hops, or an eighth of an 
ounce of the pressed hops (put up by the Shakers and sold by 
druggists), into a granite-ware kettle ; pour over it a quart of 
boiling water, and simmer about five minutes. Meanwhile stir 
to a smooth paste in a tin basin or another saucepan, a cup of 
flour and a little cold water. Line a colander with a thin cloth, 
and strain the boiling infusion of hops through it onto the flour 
paste, stirring continually. Boil this thin starch a few min- 
utes, until it thickens, stirring constantly, that no lumps be 
formed. Turn it into a large earthen bowl, add a tablespoonful 
of salt and two of white sugar, and when it has cooled to blood 
heat, add one-half cup of lively yeast, stirring all well together. 
Cover the bowl with a napkin, and let it stand in some moder- 
ately warm place twenty-four hours, or until it ceases to fer- 
ment or send up bubbles, beating back occasionally as it rises ; 
then put into a wide-mouthed glass or earthen jar, which has 
been previously scalded and dried, cover closely, and set in a cool 
place. Yeast made in this manner will keep sweet for two 
weeks in summer and longer in winter. 

Boiled Potato Yeast. — Peel four large potatoes, and put them 
to boil in two quarts of cold water. Tie two loose handfuls of 
hops securely in a piece -of muslin, and place in the water to boil 
with the potatoes. When the potatoes are tender, remove them 
with a perforated skimmer, leaving the water still boiling. 
Mash them, and work in four tablespoonfuls of flour and two of 
sugar. Over this mixture pour gradually the boiling hop infu- 
sion, stirring constantly, that it may form a smooth paste, and 
set it aside to cool. When lukewarm, add a gill of lively yeast, 
and proceed as in the foregoing recipe. 

Boiled Potato Yeast No 2. — To one teacup of very smoothly 
mashed, mealy potato, add three teaspoonfuls of white sugar, 
one teaspoonful of salt, and one cup of lively yeast, or one cake 
of Yeast Foam, dissolved in a very little warm water. The po- 
tato should be warm, but not hot enough to destroy the yeast. 
Allow this to stand until light, when it is ready for use. 

Raisin Yeast. — Cover a cup of raisins with water, and keep 
in a warm place until fermentation takes place. Make potato 
yeast in the usual way, using the water from the raisins instead 
of lively yeast to start the fermentation. 



40 EVEEY-DAY DISHES. 

Methods of Bread-Making. — Having secured 

good flour and good yeast, the first step in bread-making 
is to properly combine these materials with some liquid, 
which may be either milk or water. If milk is used, it 
should be first sterilized. More flour will be required 
to make the bread with water than with milk. Various 
methods are employed to combine these materials. 

As fermentation begins more readily and proceeds 
more rapidly in a thin batter, it is quite customary to 
start the bread with such a batter of flour, liquid, and 
yeast, called a ferment^ or sponge^ to which, when light, 
an additional portion of flour and water is added. Some 
cooks use for this sponge the entire amount of liquid 
needed for the bread, adding flour as the batter grows 
light, first for a thicker batter, and later, when this is 
risen, sufficient to make a stiff dough. Others use only 
a portion of the liquid needed at first ; and when the 
sponge is well risen, add both flour and liquid to make 
a fresh sponge, more flour being added to this, when 
light, to make the dough. Still other cooks dispense 
altogether with the sponge, adding to the liquid at the 
first sufficient flour to make it into a dough, allowing 
it to rise once in the mass, and again after it is molded 
into loaves. 

As to the superiority of one method over another, 
much depends upon their adaptability to the time and 
convenience of the user. Good, light bread may be 
produced by any of the methods. Less yeast, but more 
time will be required by the first two methods. 

Care of the Bread. — Except in very warm 
weather, the ferment, or sponge, should be started 
with the liquid at a lukewarm temperature. 



FERMENTED BREAD. 41 

The liquid should never be so cold as to chill the 
yeast. Milk, if used, should be first sterilized by 
scalding, and then cooled before using. 

After the sponge is prepared, the greatest care must 
be taken to keep it at an equable temperature. From 
70° to 90° F. is the best rauge of temperature, 75° 
being considered the golden mean throughout the entire 
fermentive process of bread-making. 

After fermentation has well begun, it will continue, 
but much more slowly if the temperature be gradually 
lowered to 45° or 50°. If it is necessary to hasten the 
rising, the temperature may be raised to 80° or 85°, 
but this will necessitate careful watching, as the bread 
will be liable to overferment, and become sour. Cold 
arrests the process of fermentation, while too great heat 
carries forward the work too rapidly. Too much stress 
cannot be laid upon the importance of an equable 
temperature. 

Lightness of Bread.— A thin batter is suffi- 
ciently light when it is effervescent, like yeast, through- 
out ; a thicker batter, when risen to double its first 
bulk, and cracked over the top. The loaf is sufficiently 
light when it has doubled its first proportions, and 
feels light when lifted on the hand. 

Temperature for Baking.— Without an oven 
thermometer, there is no accurate means of determining 
the exact temperature of the * oven ; but housekeepers 
resort to various means to form a judgment about it. 
The baker's old-fashioned way is to throw a handful of 
flour on the oven bottom. If it blackens without ig- 
niting, the heat is deemed sufficient. A common way 
of ascertaining if the heat in the oven is sufficient, is to 



42 EVEKY-DAY DISHES. 

hold the bare arm inside for a few seconds. If the arm 
cannot be held within while thirty is counted, it is too 
hot to begin with. The following test, however, is 
more accurate : For rolls, the oven should be hot 
enough to brown a teaspoonful of flour in one minute, 
and for loaves in^-ye minutes. The fire should be of 
sufficient strength to keep up the heat for an hour. 
The heat should increase for the first fifteen minutes, 
remain steady for the next fifteen minutes, and may 
then gradually decrease during the remainder of the 
baking. 

The common test for well-baked bread is to tap the 
bottom with the finger ; if it is light and well done, it 
will sound hollow ; while heavy bread will have a dull 
sound. A thoroughly baked loaf will not burn the 
hand when lifted upon it from the pan. 

Whole- Wheat Breads. — Essentially the same 
principles are involved in the production of bread from 
all kinds of wheat flour. Good material and good care 
are absolutely necessary to good bread. Flours and 
meals made from the entire grain of wheat ferment 
more readily than does ordinary white flour, and hence, 
without careful management, bread made from the 
former is more liable to become overfermented and 
sour. In making whole-wheat breads, use as short a 
course of fermentation as practicable, and let it proceed 
at a medium temperature. Knead the dough more 
thoroughly than for white flour. 

Such breads require a hotter oven at first and a 
longer time for baking. From one to one and one-half 
hours are needed, according to the size of the loaf and 
the heat of the oven. 



FEEMENTED BREAD. 43 

Whole-wlieat breads will be lighter if at least one- 
third white flour be employed. If the bread is made 
with a sponge, the white flour is best used for that 
purpose. The length of time the whole-wheat flour 
is undergoing fermentation will in this way be some- 
what lessened, and thus its liability to become sour 
decreased. 

RECIPES. 

Milk Bread with White Flour.— Scald and cool one pint of 
unskimmed milk. Add to the milk when lukewarm, one fourth 
of a cup, or three tablespoonfuls, of liquid yeast, and three cups 
of flour. Give the batter a vigorous beating, turn it into a clean 
bread-bowl or small earthen crock, cover, and let rise over night. 
In the morning, when well risen, add two or three cupfuls of 
warm flour, or sufficient to knead. Knead well until the dough 
is sufficiently elastic to rebound when struck forcibly with the 
fist. Allow it to rise again in mass ; then shape into loaves ; 
place in pans ; let it stand until light, and bake. If undesirable 
to set the bread over night, an additional tablespoonful or two of 
yeast may be used, to facilitate the rising. 

Vienna Bread.— Into a pint of milk sterilized by scalding, 
turn a cup and a half of boiling water. When lukewarm, add 
one-half cup of warm water, in which has been dissolved a cake 
of compressed yeast, and a quart of white flour. Beat the batter 
thus made very thoroughly, and allow it to rise for one hour ; 
then add white flour until the dough is of a consistency to knead. 
Knead well, and allow it to rise again until very light. Shape 
into four loaves, handling lightly. Let it rise again in the pans, 
and bake. During the baking, wash the tops of the loaves with 
a sponge dipped in milk to glaze them. 

Water Bread (Sanitarium Cooking-School Method).— To make 
one loaf of bread, dissolve a two-cent cake of compressed yeast 
in a pint of lukewarm water, or if liquid yeast be preferred, use 
one-half cup of yeast to one and one-half cups of water, with 
flour sufficient to make a dough just stiff enough to be easily 
kneaded. Knead thoroughly, using no additional flour save, if 
necessary, the merest quantity to dust the board. Having se- 
cured a well-kneaded, smooth dough, put it into a warm crock, 
cover, and set to rise, keeping it at a temperature of about 85° F. 



44 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

Allow it to rise until twice its original bulk, then turn it over in 
the crock, and allow it to rise again. When well risen the second 
time, turn over again. After this rising, with as little manipu- 
lation as possible form it into a roll about the size of the arm, 
and long enough to fit the baking-tin. Allow it to rise once more, 
and then bake. 

Water Bread No. 2. — Dissolve a tablespoonful of sugar in a 
pint of boiling water. When lukewarm, add one fourth of a 
cupful of liquid yeast, and sufficient flour to make a batter 
thick enough to drop from the spoon. Beat vigorously for ten 
minutes, turn into a clean, well-scalded bread-bowl, cover (wrap- 
ping in a blanket if in cold weather), and let it rise over night. 
In the morning, when well risen, add flour to knead. Knead 
well for half an hour, cover, and let it become light in mass. 
When light, shape into loaves, allow it to rise again, and bake. 

Fruit Roll. — Take some bread dough prepared as for milk 
bread, which has been sufficiently kneaded and is ready to mold, 
and roll to about one inch in thickness. Spread over it some 
dates which have been washed, dried, and stoned, raisins, cur- 
rants, or chopped figs. Roll it up tightly into a loaf. Let it rise 
until very light, and bake. 

Fruit Loaf. — Set a sponge with one pint of rich milk, one- 
fourth cup of yeast, and a pint of flour, over night. In the 
morning, add two cups of Zante currants, one cup of sugar, and 
three cups of flour, or enough to make a rather stiff dough. 
Knead well, and set to rise ; when light, mold into loaves ; let it 
rise again, and bake. 

Potato Bread. — Cook and mash perfectly smooth, enough 
potatoes to make a cupful. Add a teaspoonful of best white 
sugar, one cup and a half of warm water, and when the mixture 
is lukewarm, one-half cup of yeast, prepared as directed for 
Boiled Potato Yeast No. 2, and flour to make a very thick batter. 
Allow it to rise over night. In the morning, add a pint of warm 
water and flour enough to knead. The dough will need to be 
considerably stiffer than when no potato is used, or the result 
will be a bread too moist for easy digestion. Knead well. Let it 
rise, mold into four loaves, and when again light, bake. 

Fulled Bread. — Remove a loaf from the oven when about half 
baked, and lightly pull the partially set dough into pieces of 
irregular shape, about half the size of the fist. Do not smooth 
or mold the pieces ; the rougher the shape the better. Place 



■ FERMENTED BREAD. 45 

them on perforated tins, and bake in a slow oven until browned 
and crisp throughout. 

Mrs. F.'s Salt-Rising Bread.— Early in the morning, sterilize 
a pitcher and spoon, put into it one cup of boiled water, and let 
it stand until cooled to 130^ P. Add one-fourth teaspoonful salt 
and one teaspoonful sugar, and stir in flour sufficient to make 
a stiff batter. Cover with a clean napkin, and place in a crock 
of water hot enough to keep the batter at 120° P. as marked by 
a dairy thermometer. When the mixture is light, which will be 
in six or seven hours, pour it into a warm crock, rinsing the 
pitcher with a cup of water as warm as 130° P. and adding to 
the rising. Mix in a warm place with white flour sufficient to 
make a dough stiff enough to clear the board, form into loaves, 
place in baking tins, put to rise at a temperature of 120° until 
twice their original size, and bake one hour in a moderate oven. 

Whole- Wheat Bread. — The materials needed for the bread 
are : One pint of milk, scalded and cooled, one quart of wheat- 
berry flour, one pint of Minnesota spring-wheat flour, one-third 
cup of soft yeast, or one-fourth cake of compressed yeast dis- 
solved in one-third cup of cold water. Stir enough flour into 
the milk to make a stiff batter, put in the yeast, and let it rise 
until foamy. Have the milk so warm that when the flour is 
put in, the batter will be of a lukewarm temperature. Wrap in 
a thick blanket, and keep at an equable temperature. When 
light, stir in, slowly, warm flour to make a soft dough. Knead 
for fifteen minutes, and return to the bowl (which has been 
washed and oiled) to rise again. When risen to double its size, 
form into two loaves, place in separate pans, let rise again, and 
bake from three-fourths to one and one-half hours, according to 
the heat of the oven. 

Whole-Wheat Bread No. 2.— Scald one pint of unskimmed 
milk ; when lukewarm, add one-half cup of liquid yeast, or one- 
fourth cake of compressed yeast, dissolved in one-half cup of 
warm water, and a pint of Pillsbury's best white flour. Beat 
this batter thoroughly, and allow it to rise. When well risen, 
add three and two-thirds cups of wheat-berry flour. Knead 
thoroughly, and allow it to become light in mass ; then shape 
into two loaves, allow it to rise again, and bake. 

Rye Bread. — Prepare a sponge over night with white flour 
as for water bread. In the morning, when light, add another 
tablespoonful of sugar, and rye flour to knead. Proceed as 



46 EYEKY-DAY DISHES. 

directed for the water bread, taking care to use only enough rye 
flour to make the dough just stiff enough to mold. Use white 
flour for dusting the kneading board, as the rye flour is sticky. 

Grraham or Wheat-Meal Bread.— Take two tablespoonfuls of 
lively liquid yeast, or a little less than one-fourth cake of com- 
pressed yeast, dissolved in a little milk, and add new milk, 
scalded and cooled to lukewarm, to make one pint. Add one 
pint of white flour, beat very thoroughly, and set to rise. When 
very light, add three and one-half cupfuls of sifted graham or 
wheat-meal flour, or enough to make a dovigh that can be molded. 
Knead well for half an hour. Place in a clean, slightly oiled 
bread-bowl, cover, and allow it to rise. When light, shape into 
a loaf ; allow it rise again, and bake. 

Graham or Wheat-Meal Bread No. 2, — Mix well one pint of 
white and two pints of best graham or wheat-meal flour. Pre- 
pare a batter with a scant pint of milk, scalded and cooled, two 
tablespoonfuls of liquid yeast, or a little less than one fourth 
of a cake of compressed yeast, dissolved in two tablespoonfuls 
of milk, and a portion of the mixed flour. Give it a vigorous 
beating, and put in a warm place to rise. When well risen, 
add more flour to make a dough sufficiently stiff to knead. 
There will be some variation in the amount required, depend- 
ent upon the brands of flour used, but in general, two and one- 
half pints of the flour will be enough for preparing the sponge 
and kneading the dough. Knead thoroughly for twenty-five 
or thirty minutes. Put into a clean and slightly oiled bread- 
bowl, cover, and set to rise again. When double its first bulk, 
mold into a loaf ; allow it to rise again, and bake. 

Graham or Wheat-Meal Bread No. 3. — Mix three pounds 
each of graham or wheat-meal and Minnesota spring-wheat flour. 
Make a sponge of one and a half pints of warm water, one-half 
cake compressed yeast, well dissolved in the water, and flour 
to form a batter. Let this rise. When well risen, add one and 
a half pints more of warm water, one-half cupful of New Orleans 
molasses, and sufficient flour to knead. Work the bread thor- 
oughly, allow it to rise in mass ; then mold, place in pans, and 
let it rise again. The amount of material given is sufficient for 
four loaves of bread. 

Graham or Wheat-Meal Bread No. 4.— Graham, wheat-meal, 
or whole-wheat flour bread may be made in the same way as 
directed for water-bread, page 44. 



FERMENTED BREAD. 47 

Raised Biscuit. — These may be made from dough prepared 
by any of the preceding recipes for bread. They will be more 
tender if made with milk ; and if the dough is prepared expressly 
for biscuits, one third thin cream may be used. When the dough 
has been thoroughly kneaded the last time, divide into small, 
equal-sized pieces. A quantity of dough sufBcient for one loaf of 
bread should be divided into twelve or sixteen such portions. 
Shape into smooth, round biscuits, fit closely into a shallow pan, 
and let them rise until very light. Biscuit should be allowed to 
become lighter than bread before putting in the oven, since, 
being so much smaller, fermentation is arrested much sooner, 
and they do not rise as much in the oven as bread does. 

Bolls. — Well-kneaded and -risen bread dough is made into a 
variety of small forms termed rolls, by rolling with the hands or 
with a rolling-pin, and afterward cutting or folding into any 
shape desired, the particular manner by which they are folded 
and shaped giving to the rolls their characteristic names. 
Dough prepared with rich milk or part cream makes the best 
rolls. It may be divided into small, irregular portions, about 
one inch in thickness, and shaped by taking each piece sepa- 
rately in the left hand, then with the thumb and first finger of 
the right hand, slightly stretch one of the points of the piece and 
draw it over the left thumb toward the center of the roll, holding 
it there with the left thumb. Turn the dough and repeat the 
operation until you have been all around the dough, and each 
point has been drawn in ; then place on the pan to rise. Allow 
the lolls to become very light, and bake. Rolls prepared in 
this manner are termed "Imperial Rolls," and if the folding 
has been properly done, when well baked they will be com- 
posed of a succession of light layers, which can be readily 
separated. 

What are called "French Rolls" may be made by shaping 
each portion of dough into small oval rolls quite tapering at each 
end, allowing them to become light, and baking far enough apart 
so that one will not touch another. 

If, when the dough is light and ready to shape, it be rolled 
on the board until about one eighth of an inch in thickness, and 
cut into five-inch squares, then divided through the center into 
triangles, rolled up, beginning with the wide side, and placed 
in the pan to rise in semicircular shape, the rolls are called 
"Crescents." 



48 EVEEY-DAY DISHES. 

What are termed "Parker House Rolls" may be made from 
well-risen dough prepared with milk, rolled upon the board to a 
uniform thickness of about one-fourth inch ; cut into round or 
oval shapes with a cutter ; folded, one third over the other two 
thirds ; allowed to rise until very light, and baked. 

The light, rolled dough may be folded into a "Braid" by 
cutting into strips six inches in length and one in width, joining 
the ends of each three, and braiding. 

The heat of the oven should be somewhat greater for rolls 
and biscuit than for bread. The time required will depend upon 
the heat and the size of the roll, but it will seldom exceed one- 
half hour. Neither rolls nor biscuit should be eaten hot, as 
they are then open to the same objections as other new yeast 
bread. 

Glraham or Wheat-Meal Salt-Rising Bread. — Put two table- 
spoonfuls of milk into a half-pint cup, add boiling water to fill 
the cup half full, one-half teaspoonful of sugar, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of salt, and white flour to make a rather stiff batter. 
Let it rise over night. In the morning, when well risen, add a 
cup and a half of warm water, or milk scalded and cooled, and 
sufficient white flour to form a rather stiff batter. Cover, and 
allow to rise again. When light, add enough sifted graham or 
wheat-meal flour to knead. When well kneaded, shape into a 
loaf; allow it to become light again in the pan, and bake. All 
utensils used should be first well sterilized by scalding in hot 
sal-soda water. 



UNFERMENTED, OR AERATED 
BREAD. 



Unfekmented breads made light by the introduction 
of air are of two kinds : batter breads and dough 

breads. 

Air is introduced into the former by brisk and 
continuous agitating or beating of the batter ; into the 
latter, by a thorough and continuous kneading, chop- 
ping, or pounding of the dough. 

All materials used for making these breads should 
be of the very best quality. 

All breads, whether fermented or unfermented, are 
lighter if baked in some small form, and this is par- 
ticularly true of unfermented breads made light with 
air. For this reason, breads made into a dough are 
better baked in the form of rolls, biscuits, or crackers, 
and batter breads in small iron cups. 

It is especially essential in making aerated breads 
that everything be in readiness before beginning to put 
the bread together. All the materials should be meas- 
ured out, the utensils to be used close at hand, and the 
oven properly heated. 

The heat of the oven for baking should be sufficient 
to form a slight crust over all sides of the bread before 
the air escapes, but not sufficient to brown it within the 
first fifteen minutes. 

4 [49] 



50 EVERY-DAT DISHES, 

To aid in forming the crust on the sides and bottom, 
the iron cups should be heated previous to introduc- 
ing the batter, except for bread in which egg is used. 

The degree of heat required for baking will be about 
the same as for fermented rolls and biscuit, and the 
fire should be so arranged as to keep a steady but not 
greatly increasing heat. The heat should be greatest 
at the bottom of the oven. 

One hour is the average length of time required for 
properly baking the batter breads. From forty min- 
utes to one hour will be required for most of the dough 
breads. 

Success is also dependent upon the dexterity with 
which the materials when ready are put together. Bat- 
ter bread often proves a failure, although the beating is 
kept up without cessation, because it is done slowly and 
carelessly, or interspersed with stirring, thus permitting 
the air to escape between the strokes. If the bread is 
to be baked at once, the greater the despatch with 
which it can be gotten into a properly heated oven the 
lighter it will be. Crackers, rolls, and other forms of 
dough breads often lack in lightness because they were 
allowed to stand some time before baking. The same 
is true of batter breads. If for any reason it is neces- 
sary to keep such breads for any length of time after 
being prepared, before baking, set the dish containing 
them directly on ice or in some cool place. 

Many of the recipes given for the batter breads in- 
clude eggs. The yolk is not particularly essential, and 
if it can be put to other uses, may be left out. The 
white of an egg, because of its viscous nature, when 
beaten, serves as a sort of trap to catch and hold air, 



UNFERMENTBD BREADS. 51 

and added to the bread, aids in making it light. Yerj 
nice light bread may be made without eggs, but the 
novice in making aerated breads will perhaps find it an 
advantage first to become perfectly familiar with the 
processes and conditions involved, by using the recipes 
with eggs before attempting those without, which are 
somewhat more dependent for success upon skill and 
practise. The air may be incorporated by beating the 
batter with a spoon, but a wire whip is a much more 
convenient utensil for this purpose. 

The irons in which batter breads are to be baked 
should not be smeared with grease ; if necessary to oil 
them at all, they should only be wiped out lightly with 
a clean, oiled cloth. Irons well cared for, carefully 
washed, and occasionally scoured with sapolio to keep 
them perfectly smooth, will require no greasing. 

RECIPES. 

BATTER BREADS. 

Whole- Wheat Puffs.— Make a batter by beating together until 
perfectly smooth the yolk of one egg, one and one-half cups of 
new or unskimmed milk, and one pint of whole-wheat flour. 
Whip the white of the egg to a stiff froth, and stir it in lightly 
and evenly. Then turn into the iron cups and bake. The bat- 
ter may be prepared and left on the ice or in some cold place 
over night, if desired for breakfast. When ready to bake the 
puffs, after vigorously beating the batter for five or ten minutes, 
stir in lightly the well-beaten white of the egg; turn at once 
into the irons, and bake. 

Graham Puffs.— Beat together vigorously until full of air 
bubbles, one pint of unskimmed milk, the yolk of one egg, and 
one pint and three or four tablespoonfuls of graham flour, added 
a little at a time. When the mixture is light and foamy through- 
out, stir in lightly and evenly the white of the egg, beaten to a 
stiff froth ; turn into iron cups, and bake in a rather quick ovrii. 
Instead of all graham, one-third white flour may be used. 



53 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

Graham Puflfs No. 2. — Beat the yolks of two eggs in two cup- 
t'uls of ice-water; then add gradually, beating well meantime, 
three and one-fourth cupfuls of graham flour. Continue the 
beating, after all the fliour is added, until the mixture is light 
and full of air bubbles Add last the whites of the eggs, pre- 
viously beaten to a stiff froth, and bake at once. 

Currant PufTs. — Prepare the puffs as directed in any of the 
preceding recipes with the addition of one cup of Zante currants 
which have been well washed, dried, and floured. 

Graham Gems. — Into two cupfuls of unskimmed milk, ice- 
cold when practicable, stir gradually, sprinkling it from the 
hand, three and one-fourth cui^fuls of graham flour. Beat vigor- 
ously for ten minutes or longer, until the batter is perfectly 
smooth and full of air bubbles. Turn at once into hissing-hot 
i;em irons, and bake in a hot oven. If preferred, the batter may 
be prepared, and the dish containing it placed on ice for an 
hour or longer ; then well beaten and baked. Graham gems 
may be made in this manner with soft water instead of milk, 
but such, in general, will need a little more flour than when 
made with milk. With some ovens it will be found an ad- 
vantage in baking these gems to place them on the upper 
grate for the first ten minutes or until the top has been 
slightly crusted, and then change to the bottom of the oven for 
the baking. 

Rye Puffs. — Beat together the same as for whole-wheat puffs 
one cupful of milk, one tablespoonful of sugar, and the yolk of 
an egg. Add one cupful of good rye flour mixed with one-half 
cupful of graham flour, and stir in lastly the well-beaten white 
of the egg. Bake at once in heated gem-irons. 

Rye Gems. — Mix together one cupful of corn-meal and one 
cupful of rye meal. Stir the mixed meal into one and one-half 
cupfuls of ice-water. Beat the batter vigorously for ten or fifteen 
minutes, then turn into hot irons, and bake. 

Corn Puffs. — Mingle the yolk of one egg with one cupful of 
rich milk. Add to the liquid one cupful of flour, one-half cupful 
of fine yellow corn-meal, and one-fourth cupful of sugar, all of 
which have previously been well mixed together. Less sugar 
may be used, or it may be entirely omitted if preferred. Place 
the batter on ice for an hour, or until very cold. Then beat it 
vigorously five or ten minutes, till full of air bubbles ; chop in 



TJNFERMSNTED SRliADS. 5 3 

lightly the stiffly beaten white of the egg, and put at once into 
heated irons. Bake in a moderately quick oven thirty or forty 
minutes. 

Com Puffs No. 2. — Scald two cupfuls of fine white corn-meal 
with boiling water. When cold, add three tablespoonfuls of thin 
sweet cream and the yolk of one egg. Beat well, and stir in 
lastly the white of the egg, beaten to a stiff froth. The batter 
should be sufficiently thin to drop easily from a spoon, but not 
thin enough to pour. Bake in heated irons, in a moderately 
quick oven. 

Corn Puffs No. 3.— Beat together one and one-half cupfuls 
of unskimmed milk and the yolks of two eggs, until thoroughly 
blended. Add two cupfuls of flour, and one cupful of best 
granulated corn-meal. Beat the batter thoroughly ; stir in 
lightly the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ;' turn into 
heated irons, and bake. 

Corn Dodg-ers.— Scald one cupful of best granulated corn- 
meal, into which a tablespoonful of sugar has been sifted, with 
one cup of boiling milk. Beat until smooth, and drop on a 
griddle, in cakes about one inch in thickness, and bake slowly 
for an hour. Turn when brown. If preferred, the baking may 
be finished in the oven after the first turning. 

Hoe Cake.— Scald one pint of white corn-meal, with which, 
if desired, a tablespoonful of sugar and one-half teaspoonful of 
salt have been mixed, with boiling milk, or water enough to 
make a batter sufficiently thick not to .spread. Drop on a hot 
griddle, in large or small cakes, as preferred, about one-half inch 
in thickness. Cook slowly, and when well browned on the under 
side, turn over. The cake may be cooked slowly until well done 
throughout, or, as the portion underneath becomes well browned, 
the first brown crust may be peeled off with a knife, and the 
cake again turned. As rapidly as a crust becomes formed and 
browned, one may be removed, and the cake turned, until the 
whole is browned. The thin, wafer-like crusts are excellent 
served with hot milk or cream. 

Granola Gems.— Into three fourths of a cup of rich milk stir 
one cup of granola (prepared by the Sanitarium Health Food 
Co.). Drop into heated irons, and bake for twenty or thirty 
minutes. 

Bean Gems.— Prepare the gems in the same manner as for 
whole-wheai puff's, using one-half cup of milk, one egg, one cup 



54 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

of cooked beans whicli have been rubbed through a colander 
and salted, and one cup and one tablespoonful of white flour. 
A little variation in the quantity of the flour may be necessary, 
dependent upon the moisture contained in the beans, although 
care should be taken to have them quite dry. 

DOUGH BREADS. 

Breakfast Rolls. — Sift a pint and a half of graham flour into 
a bowl, and into it stir a cupful of very cold thin cream or un- 
skimmed milk. Pour the liquid into the flour slowly, a few 
spoonfuls at a time, mixing each spoonful to a dough with the 
flour as fast as poured in. When all the liquid has been added, 
gather the fragments of dough together, knead thoroughly for 
ten minutes or longer, until perfectly smooth and elastic. The 
quantity of flour will vary somewhat with the quality, but in 
general, the quantity given will be quite sufficient for mixing 
the dough and dusting the board. When well kneaded, divide 
into two portions ; roll each over and over with the hands, until 
a long roll about one inch in diameter is formed ; cut this into 
two-inch lengths, prick with a fork and place on perforated 
tins, far enough apart so that one will not touch another when 
baking. Each roll should be as smooth and perfect as possible, 
and with no dry flour adhering. Bake at once, or let stand on 
ice for twenty minutes. The rolls should not be allowed to 
stand after forming, unless on ice. From thirty to forty minutes 
will be required for baking. When done, spread on the table to 
cool, but do not pile one on top of another. 

Very nice rolls may be made in the same manner, using for 
the wetting ice-cold soft water. They require a longer kneading, 
are more crisp but less tender, than those made with cream. 
With some brands of graham flour the rolls will be much lighter 
if one- third white flour be used. Whole-wheat flour may be 
used in place of graham, if preferred. 

Sticks. — Prepare and knead the dough the same as for 
rolls. When ready to form, roll the dough much smaller ; 
scarcely larger than the little finger, and cut into three- or 
four-inch lengths. Bake the same as rolls, for about twenty 
minutes. 

Cream Graham Rolls. — To one-half cup of cold cream add 
one-half cup of soft ice-water. Make into a dough with three 
cups of graham flour, sprinkling in slowly with the hands, beat- 



UNFERMENTED BREADS. 55 

ing at the same time, so as to incorporate as much air as possi- 
ble, until the dough is too stilT to be stirred ; then knead thor- 
oughly, form into rolls, and bake. 

Fruit Rolls. — Prepare the rolls as directed in the recipe for 
breakfast rolls, and when well kneaded, work into the dough a 
half cup of Zante currants which have been well washed, dried, 
and floured. Form the rolls in the usual manner, and bake. 

Beaten Biscuit. — Into a quart of whole-wheat flour mix a 
large cup of thin sweet cream in the same manner as for break- 
fast rolls. The dough must be very stiff, and rendered soft and 
pliable by thorough kneading and afterward pounding with a 
mallet for at least half an hour in the following manner : Pound 
the dough out flat, and until of the same thickness throughout; 
dredge lightly with flour; double the dough over evenly and 
pound quickly around the outside, to fasten the edges together 
and thus retain the air within the dough. When well worked, 
the dough will appear flaky and brittle, and pulling a piece of it 
off quickly will cause a sharp, snapping sound. Mold into small 
biscuits, making a hole in the center of each,— hold the biscuit 
in the left hand, and with the thumb and forefinger of the right 
hand press the dough until they meet. Place on perforated 
tins, with a space between, and put at once into the oven. 
The oven should be of the same temperature as for rolls. If 
they are soggy inside when cold, they were not well baked, 
as they should be light and tender. If preferred, use one-third 
white flour, instead of all whole-wheat. Excellent results are 
also obtained by chopping instead of pounding the dough. 

Water Biscuit witll Eg^. — Beat together until thoroughly 
mingled, the yolk of an egg and one-half cup of ice-cold water. 
With this incorporate flour enough to make a dough which will 
clear the board without its being dusted with flour, but not so 
stiff that it will be difficult to shape. Work and shape as di- 
rected above. Bake one hour in a well-heated oven. The dough 
may be formed into rolls or sticks, if preferred. 

Cream Crisps.— Make a dough of one cupful of thin cream, 
and a little more than three cups of graham flour. Knead until 
smooth, then divide the dough into several pieces, and place in 
a dish on ice for an hour, or until ice cold. Roll each piece 
separately and quickly as thin as brown paper. Prick with a 
fork, cut with a knife into squares, and bake on perforated tins 
until lightly browned on both sides. 



56 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

Cream Crisps No. 2. — Into two and one-half cups of cold 
cream or rich milk, sprinkle slowly with the hands, beating 
meanwhile to incorporate air, four cups of best graham flour, 
sifted with one-half cup of granulated sugar. Add flour to 
knead, about two and one-fourth cups being required. When 
well kneaded, divide into several portions, roll each as thin as a 
knife blade, prick well with a fork, cut into squares, and bake. 

Graham Crisps. — Into one-half cupful of ice-cold soft water, 
stir slowly, so as to incorporate as much air as possible, enough 
graham flour to make a dough stiff enough to knead. A table- 
spoonful of sugar may be added to the water before stirring in 
the flour, if desired. 

Fruit Crackers.— Prepare a dough with one cup of cold sweet 
cream and three cups of graham flour, knead well, and divide 
into two portions. Roll each quite thin. Spread one thickly 
with dates or figs seeded and chopped ; place the other one on 
top and press together with the rolling-pin. Cut into squares 
and bake. An additional one fourth of a cup of flour will doubt- 
less be needed for dusting the board and kneading, A dough 
prepared with ice-water and the yolk of egg, as directed for 
water biscuit, may be used for these crackers, if preferred. 

Nut Crisps. — Mix together thoroughly one and one-half cups 
of coarse graham flour and one-half cup of hickory-nut meal, 
prepared by pressing the chopped meats of nuts through a fine 
colander. Make into a rather stiif dough with ice-cold water, 
knead well, roll into a sheet as thin as brown paper, cut with a 
knife into squares, and bake on perforated tins until lightly 
browned on both sides. 

Nut Sticks. — Larger quantities of the flour and hickory-nut 
or pecan meal used in the same proportion as above may be pre- 
pared into a dough in the same manner. After being well 
kneaded, it may be divided and shaped by rolling with the hand 
into a long roll about the size of the little finger. Cut into three- 
or four-inch lengths, and bake on perforated tins for about 
twentj' minutes. 



FRUIT. 

Perfectly ripe fruit is, as a rule, more desirable 
used fresh than in any other way. Fruits which are 
immature, require cooking. Stewing and baking are 
the simplest methods of cooking fruits, and nearly all 
kinds admit of one of these modes of preparation. 

General Suggestions for Cooking Fruit. — 
The utensils for stewing should be porcelain-Hned or 
granite-ware. Cover with a china plate or granite- 
ware cover, never with a tin one, as the steam will 
condense and run down into the kettle, discoloring the 
contents. Use silver knives for preparing the fruit, 
and silver or wooden spoons for stirring. Prepare just 
before cooking, if you would preserve the fruit perfect 
in flavor, and unimpaired by discoloi-ation. 

Cook in a small quantity of boiling water. Fruit 
should be cooked by stewing or gentle simmering ; 
hard boiling will destroy the fine flavor of all fruits, and 
especially of berries and other small fruits. Cinnamon, 
cloves, or other spices should not be added, as their 
stronger flavors deaden or obliterate the natural flavor 
of the fruit, which should always be preserved as per- 
fectly as possible. If desirable to add some foreign 
flavor, let it be the flavor of another fruit, or the per- 
fume of flowers. For instance, flavor apple with 
lemon, pineapple, quince, or rose-water. 

Apples are best cooked by baking. Pears and 
quinces are also excellent baked. The oven should be 

[57] 



58 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

only moderately hot ; if the heat is too great, they 
brown on the outside before they are done throughout. 
By any method of cooking, pains should be taken to 
cook together fruit of uniform variety, size, and degree 
of hardness ; and if it is to be cut in pieces, care should 
be taken to have the pieces of uniform size. 

RECIPES. 

Baked Apples. — Moderately tart apples or very juicy sweet 
ones are best for baking. Select ripe apples, free from imper- 
fections, and of nearly equal size. Wipe carefully and remove 
the blcssom ends. Water sufficient to cover the bottom of the 
baking-dish should be added if the fruit is not very juicy. If the 
apples are sour and quite firm, it is a good "way to pare them 
before baking, and then place in an earthen pie-dish with a little 
hot water. If they incline to brown too quickly, cover the tops 
with a granite-ware pie-dish. If the sirup dries out, add a little 
more hot water. When done, set them away till nearly cold, 
then transfer to a glass dish, pour the sirup, which should be 
thick and amber colored, over them. Sour apples are excellent 
pared, cored, and baked with the centers filled with sugar, jelly, 
or a mixture of chopped raisins and dates. They should be put 
into a shallow earthen dish with water sufficient to cover the 
bottom, baked in a quick oven, and basted often with the sirup. 
Sweet apples are best baked without paring. Baked apples are 
usually served as a relish, but with a dressing of cream they 
make a most delicious dessert. 

Citron Apples. — Select a few tart apples of a uniform degree 
of hardness, and remove the cores. Unless the skins are very 
tender, it is better to pare them. Fit in a piece of apple large 
enough to fill one. third of the lower part of the cavity ; then fill 
the remainder with bits of chopped citron and sugar. If the 
skins have been removed, place the stuffed apples on a flat 
earthen dish with a tablespoonful of water in the bottom ; cover 
closely, and bake till perfectly tender, but not till they have 
fallen to pieces. If the skins are left on, they may be baked 
without covering. When cold, serve in separate dishes, with or 
without a spoonful or two of whipped cream on each apple. 



FRUIT. 59 

Lemon Apples. — Prepare tart apples the same as for citron 
apples. Fill the cavities made by removing the cores with a 
mixture of grated lemon and sugar, squeeze a few drops of 
lemon juice over each apple, and bake. Serve with or without 
whipped cream. 

Baked Pears. — Hard pears make an excellent dessert when 
baked. Pare, halve, remove seeds, and place in a shallow 
earthen dish, with a cup of water to each two quarts of fruit. 
If the pears are sour, a little sugar may be added. Bake, closely 
covered, in a moderate oven until tender. Serve with or with- 
out sugar and cream. Tart pears are the best for baking, as the 
sweet varieties are often tasteless. 

Baked Quinces. — Pare and remove the cores. Fill the cavi- 
ties with sugar, put in a shallow earthen dish, and add water to 
cover the bottom ; bake till soft, basting often with the sirup. 
If the sirup dries out before the fruit is perfectly tender, add a 
little more hot water. 

Baked Apple Sauce. — Pare, core, and quarter apples to fill an 
earthen crock or deep pudding-dish, taking care to use apples of 
a uniform degree of hardness, and pieces of the same size. For 
two quarts of fruit thus prepared, add a cup of water, and if the 
apples are sour, a cup of sugar. Cover closely, and bake in a 
moderate oven several hours, or until of a dark red color. 

Sweet apples and quinces in the proportion of two parts of 
apple to one of quince, baked in this way, are also good. Cut 
the apples into quarters, but slice the quinces much thinner, as 
they are more difficult to cook. Put a layer of quince on the 
bottom of the dish, alternating with a layer of apple, until the 
dish is full. Add cold water to half cover the fruit, and stew in 
the oven, well covered, without stirring, until tender. 

Pears may be cooked in a similar way, and both apples and 
pears thus cooked may be canned while hot and kept for a long 
period. 

Apples with Raisins. — Pare, core, and quarter a dozen on 
more medium-sized sour apples. Clean thoroughly one fourth 
as many raisins as apples, and turn over them a quart of boiling 
water. Let them steep until well swollen, then add the apples, 
and cook until tender. Sugar to sweeten may be added if de- 
sired, although little will be needed unless the apples are very tart. 
Dried apples soaked over night may be made much more pala- 
table by stewing with raisins or English currants, in the same way. 



60 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

Apples with Apricots. — Pare, core, and quarter some nice, 
sour apples. Put them to cook with two halves of dried apricot 
for each apple. "When tender, make smooth by beating or rub- 
bing through a colander, and sweeten. Dried apples may be 
used in the place of fresh ones. 

CranbeiTies. — Cranberries make an excellent sauce, but the 
skins are rather hard of digestion, and it is best to exclude them. 
Stew in the proportion of a quart of berries to a pint of water, 
simmering gently until the skins have all burst, and the quantity 
is reduced to a pint. Put through a colander to remove the 
skins, and when nearly cool, add for the quart of berries two 
thirds of a cup of sugar. 

Cranberries witli Raisins. — Cook the cranberries as in the 
preceding recipe, and when rubbed through the colander, add 
for every pound of cranberries before cooking, one-fourth pound 
of raisins which have been steeped for lialf an hour in just suffi- 
cient boiling water to cover. A little less sugar will be needed 
to sweeten than when served without the raisins. 

Cranberries and Sweet Apples. — Stew equal parts of cran- 
berries and sweet apples together. Mash, run through a fine 
sieve or colander to remove the skins and make the whole 
homogeneous. This makes a very palatable sauce without the 
addition of sugar. California prunes and cranberries stewed 
together in equal proportion, in a small quantity of water, also 
make a nice sauce without sugar. 

Oranges and Apples. — The mild, easy cooking, tart varieties 
of apples make an excellent sauce stewed with one-third sliced 
oranges, from whicii the seeds have been removed. Pare, core, 
and slice the apples, and cook gently so as to preserve the form 
of botli fruits until the apples are tender. Add sugar to sweeten, 
and if desired, a very little of the grated yellow of the orange 
rind. Remove the slices of orange before cooling, or they will 
impart a bitter taste to the apples. 

Stewed Raisins. — Soak a pint of good raisins, cleaned and 
freed from stems, in cold water for several hours. When ready 
to cook, put thom, with the water in which they were soaked, 
in a fruit-kettle and simmer until the skins are tender. Three 
or four good-sized figs, chopped quite fine, cooked with the 
raisins, give an additional richness and thickness of juice. No 
sugar will be needed. 



FRUIT. 61 

Dried Apples* — Good apples properly dried make a very 
palatable sauce ; but unfortunately the fruit generally selected 
for drying is of so inferior a quality that if cooked in its fresh 
state it would not be good. The dried fruit in most of our mar- 
kets needs to be looked over carefully, and thoroughly washed 
in hot water before using. Put into a granite- ware kettle, cover 
with boiling water, and cook gently until tender. Fresh steam- 
dried or evaporated apples will cook in from one half to three 
fourths of an hour ; if older, they may require from one to two 
or more hours. Add boiling water, as needed, during the cook- 
ing. If when tender they are lacking in juice, add a little boil- 
ing water long enough before lifting from the fire to allow it 
to boil up once. If the fruit is very poor, a few very thin slices 
of the 3'ellow portion of lemon or orange rind, added a half hour 
before it is done, will sometimes be an improvement. 

Dried Apples with Other Dried Fruit. — An excellent sauce 
may be made by cooking a few dried plums with dried or evap- 
orated apples. Only enough of the plums to give a flavor to the 
apples will be needed ; a handful of the former to a pound of 
apples will be sufficient. Dried cherries, raisins, English cur- 
rants, dried apricots, prunelles, and peaches are also excellent 
used in combination with dried apples. 

Dried Apricots and Peaches. — These fruits, if dried with the 
skins on, need, in addition to the preparation for cooking recom- 
mended for dried apples, a thorough rubbing with the fingers, 
while being washed, to remove the down. Put into boiling water 
in about the proportion of two parts of fruit to three of water. 
If the fruit was pared before drying, a little more water will be 
required. Cook quickly, but gently, until just tender, and take 
from the fire as soon as done. If too soft, they will be mushy 
and insipid. 

Evaporated Peach Sauce. — Soak the peaches over night in 
just enough Avater to cover. In the morning put to cook in boil- 
ing water. When tender, sweeten and beat perfectlj' smooth 
with an egg-beater. 

Dried Pears. — These may be treated in the same wu}' as dried 
apples. 

Small Fruits. — These, when dried, must be carefully exam- 
ined, thoroughly washed, and then cooked rather quickly in 
boiling water. They swell but little, do not require much 



62 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

water, and usually cook in a few minutes. They should bo 
taken from the fire as soon as soft, as long standing makes them 
insipid. 

Prunes. — Use only the best selected prunes. Clean by put- 
ting them into warm water ; let them stand a few minutes, rub- 
bing them gently between the hands to make sure that all dust 
and dirt are removed ; rinse, and if rather dry and hard, put 
them into three parts of water to one of prunes ; cover closely, 
and let them simmer for several hours. If the prunes are quite 
easily cooked, less water may be used. They will be tender, 
with a thick juice. The sweet varieties need no sugar whatever. 
Many persons who cannot eat fruit cooked with sugar, can 
safely partake of sweet prunes cooked in this way. A slice 
of lemon, added just before the prunes are done, is thought 
an improvement. 

Prune Marmalade. — Cook sweet California prunes as dircted 
above. When well done, rub through a colander to remove the 
skins and stones. No sugar is necessary. If the pulp is too thin 
when cold, it may be covered in an earthen pudding-dish and 
stewed down by placing in a pan of hot water in a moderate 
oven, 

SUGGESTIONS FOR CANNING FRIJIT, 

Select self-sealing glass cans of some good variety. 
Those with glass or porcelain-lined covers are best. 
Test the cans to see if they are perfect, with good rub- 
bers and covers that fit closely, by partly filling them 
with hot water, screwing on the tops, and placing bot- 
tom upward upon the table for some time before using. 
If none of the water leaks out, they may be considered 
in good condition. If the cans have been previously 
used, examine them with special care to see that both 
cans and covers have been carefully cleaned ; then 
thoroughly sterilize them, and fit with new rubbers 
when necessary. 

Cans and covers should be sterilized by boiling in 
water for lialf an hour, or by baking in an oven, at a 



FRUIT. 63 

temperature sufficient to scorch paper, for two hours. 
The cans should be placed in the water or oven when 
cold, and the temperature allowed to rise gradually, to 
avoid breaking. They should be allowed to cool gradu- 
ally, for the same reason. 

Select only the best of fruit, such as is perfect in 
flavor and neither green nor overripe. Fruit which 
has been shipped from a distance, and which is conse- 
quently not perfectly fresh, contains germs in active 
growth, and if it is the least bit musty, it will be almost 
sure to spoil, even though the greatest care be taken in 
canning. 

Poor fruit will not be improved by canning ; over- 
ripe fruit will be insipid and mushy ; and though cook- 
ing will soften hard fruit, it cannot impart to it the 
delicate flavors which belong to that which is in its 
prime. The larger varieties of fruit should not, for 
canning, be quite soft enough for eating. 

Cook the fruit slowly in a porcelain-lined or granite- 
ware kettle, using as little water as possible. It is bet- 
ter to cook only small quantities at a time in one kettle. 
Steaming in the cans is preferable to stewing, where 
tlie fruit is at all soft. To do this, carefully fill the 
cans with fresh fruit, packing it quite closely, if the 
fruit is large, and set the cans in a boiler partly filled 
with cold water, with something underneath them to 
prevent breaking, — mufiin-rings, straw, thick cloth, or 
anything to keep them from resting on the bottom of 
the boiler ; screw the covers on the cans so the water 
cannot boil into them, but not so tightly as to prevent 
the escape of steam ; let the water boil until the fruit is 
steamed tender. 



6-i EVEBY-DAY DISHES, 

Fruit for canning should be so thoroughly cooked 
that every portion of it will have been subjected to a 
sufficient degree of heat to destroy all germs within the 
fruit, but overcooking should be avoided. The length 
of time required for cooking fruits for canning varies 
with the kind and quality of fruit and the manner of 
cooking. 

Fifteen minutes may be considered as the shortest 
time for which even the most delicate fruits should be 
subjected to the temperature of boiling water, and at 
least thirty minutes will be required by most fruits. 
Fruits which are not perfectly fresh, or which have been 
shipped some distance, should be cooked not less than 
thirty minutes. The boiling should be very slow, how- 
ever, as hard, rapid boiling will break up the fruit, and 
much of its fine flavor will be lost in the steam. 

Use the best sugar, if any, two tablespoonfuls to 
a quart of fruit is sufficient for most subacid fruits, 
as berries and peaches ; plums, cherries, strawberries, 
and currants require from five to eight tablespoonfuls 
of sugar to a quart. 

Perfect fruit, properly canned, will keep without 
sugar, and will thus retain its natural flavor more per- 
fectly than when cooked with sugar. The necessary 
amount of sweetening may be added when it is opened 
for use. 

If the fruit is to be cooked previously to being put 
into the cans, the cans should be heated before the in- 
troduction of the fruit, which should be put in at a boiling 
temperature. Fill a large dish-pan nearly full of scald- 
ing (not boiling) water, gradually introduce each can, 
previously baked, into the water, dip it full of water. 



FRUIT. 65 

and set it right side up in the pan. Kepeat the process 
with other cans until four or jfive are ready. Put the 
covers likewise into boiling water. Have in readiness 
for use a granite-ware funnel and dipper, also in boiling 
water ; a cloth for wiping the outside of the cans; a 
silver fork or spoon; a dish for emptyings; and a broad 
shallow pan on one side of the range, half filled with 
boiling water, in which to set the cans while being 
filled. When everything is in readiness, the fruit 
properly cooked, and at a 'boiling tem/perature, turn 
one of the cans down in the water, roll it over once or 
twice, empty it, and set in the shallow pan of hot 
water ; adjust the funnel, and then place first in the 
can a quantity of juice, so that when the fruit is put in, 
no vacant places will be left for air, which is sometimes 
quite troublesome if this precaution is not taken ; then 
add the fruit. If any bubbles of air chance to be left, 
work them out with a fork or spoon handle, dipped fii-st 
in boiling water, and then quickly introduced down the 
sides of the jar and through the fruit in such a way 
that not a bubble will remain. Fill the can to overflow- 
ing, remembering that any vacuum invites the air to 
enter ; use boiling water or sirup when there is not 
enough juice. Skim all froth from the fruit, adding 
more juice if necessary ; wipe the juice from the top of 
the can, adjust the rubber, put on the top, and screw 
it down as quickly as possible. If the fruit is cooked 
in the cans, as soon as it is sufficiently heated, fill the 
can completely full with boiling juice, sirup, or water ; 
run the handle of a silver spoon around the inside of 
the can, to make sure the juice entirely surrounds every 
portion of fruit, and that no spaces for air remain, put 
5 



66 EVEKY-DAY DISHES, 

on the rubbers, wipe off all juice, and seal quickly. 
When the cans are filled, set them away from currents 
of air aE(.d not on a very cold surface, to avoid danger 
of their cracking. 

As the fruit cools, the covers should be tightened, 
this being done several times in the first twenty-four 
hours after the fruit is sealed. When the tops have 
finally been screwed down tightly, place them in a cool 
place, bottom upward, and watch closely for a few days. 
If the juice begins to leak out, or any appearance of fer- 
mentation is seen, it is a sign that there has been some 
failure, and the only thing to do is to open the can im- 
mediately, boil the fruit, and use as quickly as possible ; 
recanning will not save it unless boiled a long time. 
If no signs of spoiling are observed within two or three 
weeks, the fruit may be safely stored away in a dark, 
cool place. If one has no dark storeroom, it is an 
advantage to wrap each can in brown paper, to keep 
out the light. 

RECIPES. 

To Can Strawberries. — These are generally considered more 
difficult to can than most other berries. Use none but sound 
fruit, and put up the day they are picked, if possible. Heat the 
fruit slowly to the boiling point, and cook fifteen minutes or 
longer, adding the sugar hot, if any be used, after the fruit is 
boiling. Strawberries, while cooking, have a tendency to rise 
to the top, and unless they are kept pushed down, will not be 
cooked uniformly, which is doubtless one reason they sometimes 
fail to keep well. The froth should also be kept skimmed off. 
Fill the cans as directed on page 65, taking special care to let 
out every air bubble, and to remove every particle of froth from 
the top of the can before sealing. If the berries are of good size, 
they may be cooked in the cans, a boiling sirup prepared with 
one cup of water and one of sugar for each quart can of fruit 
being added. 



FRUIT. 67 

If after the cans are cold, the fruit rises to the top, as it 
frequently does, gently shake the cans until the fruit is well 
saturated with the juice and falls by its own weight to the 
bottom, or low enough to be entirely covered with the liquid. 

To Can Raspberries, Blackberries, and Other Small Fruits. — 
Select none but good, sound berries ; those freshly picked are 
best; reject any green, overripe, mashed, or worm-eaten fruit. 
If necessary to wash the berries, do so by putting a quart at a 
time in a colander, and dipping the dish carefully into a pan of 
clean water, letting it stand for a moment. If the water is very 
dirty, repeat the process in a second water. Drain thoroughly, 
and if the fruit is to be cooked previously to putting in the cans, 
put it into a porcelain kettle with a very small quantity of 
water, and heat slowly to boiling. If sugar is to be used, have 
it hot, but do not add it until the fruit is boiling ; and before do- 
ing so, if there is much juice, dip out the surplus, and leave the 
berries with only a small quantity, as the sugar will have a ten- 
dency to draw out more juice, thus furnishing plenty for sirup. 
Raspberries are so juicy that they need scarcely more than a 
pint of water to two quarts of fruit. 

The fruit may be steamed in the cans if preferred. When 
thoroughly scalded, if sugar is to be used, fill the can with a 
boiling sirup made by dissolving the requisite amount of sugar 
in water ; if to be canned without sugar, fill up the can with 
boiling water or juice. 

Seal the fruit according to directions previously given. 

To Can Gooseberries. — Select such as are smooth and turning 
red, but not fully ripe ; wash and remove the stems and blossom 
ends. For three quarts of fruit, allow one quart of water. Heat 
slowly to boiling ; cook fifteen minutes, add a cupful of sugar 
which has been heated dry in the oven ; boil two or three min- 
utes longer, and can. 

To Can Peaches. — Select fruit which is perfectly ripe and 
sound, but not very much softened. Freestone peaches are the 
best. Put a few at a time in a wire basket, and dip into boiling 
water for a moment, and then into cold water, to cool the fruit 
sufficiently to handle with comfort. The skins may then be 
rubbed or peeled off easily, if done quickly, and the fruit di- 
vided into halves ; or wipe with a clean cloth to remove all dirt 
and the wool, and with a silver knife cut in halves, remove the 
stone, and then pare each piece, dropping it into cold water at 



68 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

once, to prevent discoloration. Peaches cut before being pared 
are less likely to break in pieces while removing the stones. 
When ready, pour a cupful of water in the bottom of the kettle, 
and fill with peaches, scattering sugar among the layers, in the 
proportion of a heaping tablespoonful to a quart of fruit. Heat 
slowly, boil fifteen minutes or longer till a silver fork can be 
easily passed through the pieces. Can in the usual way, and 
seal ; or fill the cans with the halved peaches, and place them in 
a boiler of warm water with something underneath to avoid 
breaking ; cook until perfectly tender. Have ready a boiling 
sirup prepared with one-half cup of sugar and two cups of 
water, and pour into each can all that it will hold, remove air 
bubbles, cover, and seal. A few of the pits may be cooked in 
the sirup, and removed before adding to the fruit, when their 
special flavor is desired. 

Another Method. — After paring and halving the fruit, lay 
a clean napkin in the bottom of a steamer ; fill with the fruit. 
Steam until a fork will easily penetrate the pieces. Have ready 
a boiling sirup prepared as directed above, put a few spoonfuls 
in the bottom of the hot cans, and dip each piece of fruit gently 
in the hot sirup; then as carefully place it in the jar. Fill 
with the sirup, and finish in the usual way. 

Peaches canned without sugar, retain more nearly their nat- 
ural flavor. To prepare in this way, allow one-half pint of 
water to each pound of fruit. Cook slowly until tender, and 
can in the usual manner. When wanted for the table, open an 
hour before needed, and sprinkle lightly with sugar. 

To Can Pears. — The pears should be perfectly ripened, but 
not soft. Pare with a silver knife, halve or quarter, remove the 
seeds, and drop into a pan of cold water to prevent discoloration. 
Prepare a sirup, allowing a cup of sugar and a quart of water to 
each two quarts of fruit. When the sirup boils, put the pears 
into it very carefully, so as not to bruise or break them, ?.ud' 
cook until they look clear, and can be easily pierced with a fork. 
Have the cans heated, and put in first a little of the sirup, then 
pack in the pears very carefully ; fill to overflowing with the 
scalding sirup, and finish as j^reviously directed. The tougher 
and harder varieties of pears must be cooked till nearly tender 
in hot water, or steamed over a kettle of boiling water, before 
adding to the sirup, and may then be finished as above. If it is 
desirable to keep the pears whole, cook only those of a uniform 



PEtJlT. 69 

size together ; or if of assorted sizes, put the larger ones into 
the sirup a few minutes before the smaller ones. Some prefer 
boiling the skins of the pears in the water of which the sirup 
is to be made, and slcimming them out before putting in the 
sugar. This is thought to impart a finer flavor. Pears which 
are very sweet or nearly tasteless, may be improved by using 
the juice of a large lemon for each quart of sirup. Pears may 
be cooked in the cans if preferred. 

To Can Plums. — Green Gages and Damsons are the best for 
canning. Wipe clean with a soft cloth. Allow a half cup of 
water and the same of sugar to every three quarts of fruit, in 
preparing a sirup. Pick each plum with a silver fork to prevent 
it from bursting, and while the sirup is heating, turn in the 
fruit, and boil until thoroughly done. Dip carefully into hot 
jars, fill with sirup, and cover immediatelj\ 

To Can Cherries. — These maybe put up whole in the same 
way as plums, or pitted and treated as directed for berries, al- 
lowing about two quarts of water and a scant pint of sugar to 
five quarts of solid fruit, for the tart varieties, and not quite 
half as much sugar for the sweeter ones. 

To Can Mixed Fruit.— There are some fruits with so little 
flavor that they are apt to taste insipid when cooked ; such are 
much improved by canning with some acid or strongly flavored 
fruits. 

Blackberries put up with equal quantities of blue or red 
plums, or in the proportion of one to three of the sour fruit, 
are much better than either of these fruits canned separately. 
Blackcaps are much better if canned with currants, in the pro- 
portion of one part currants to four of blackcaps. 

Red and black raspberries, cherries and raspberries, are also 
excellent combinations. 

Quinces with Apples. — Pare and cut an equal quantity of firm 
sweet apples and quinces. First stew the quinces till they are 
tender in sufficient water to cover. Take them out, and cook 
the apples in the same water. Lay the apples and quinces in 
alternate layers in a porcelain kettle or crock. Have ready a 
hot sirup made with one part sugar to two and a half parts 
water, pour over the fruit, and let it stand all night. The next 
day reheat to boiling, and can. 

Quinces and sweet apples may be canned together, using equal 
parts of each, and adding sugar when opened. 



iO EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

Plums with Sweet Apples. — Prepare the plums, and stew in 
water enough to cover. When tender, skim out, add to the juice 
an equal quantity of quartered sweet apples, and stew till nearly 
tender. Add the plums again, boil together for a few minutes, 
and can. When wanted for the table, open, sprinkle with sugar 
if any seems needed, let stand awhile, and serve. 

To Can Grapes. — Grapes have so many seeds that they do not 
form a very palatable sauce when canned entire. Pick carefully 
from the stems, wash in a colander the same as directed for ber- 
ries, and drain. Remove the skins, dropping them into one 
earthen crock and the pulp into another. Place both crocks in 
kettles of hot water over the stove, and heat slowly, stirring the 
pulp occasionally until the seeds will come out clean. 

Then rub the pulp through a colander, add the skins to it, 
and a cupful of sugar for each quart of pulp. Return to the 
fire, boil twenty minutes until the skins are tender, and can ; or, 
if preferred, the whole grapes may be heated, and when well 
scalded so that the seeds are loosened, pressed through a colan- 
der, thus rejecting both seeds and skins, boiled, then sweetened 
if desired, and canned. 

To Can Crab- Apples. — These may be cooked whole, and 
canned the same way as plums. 

To Can Apples. — Prepare and can the same as pears, when 
fresh and fine in flavor. If old and rather tasteless, the follow- 
ing is a good way : — 

Prepare a sirup of the juice of four large or six small lemons, 
with several thin slices of the yellow part of the rind, four cups 
of sugar, and three pints of boiling water. Pare and quarter the 
apples, or if small, only halve them, and cook gently in a broad- 
bottomed, closely covered saucepan, with as little water as pos- 
sible, till tender, but not broken ; then pour the sirup over them, 
heat all to boiling, and can at once. The apples may be cooked 
by steaming over a kettle of hot water, if preferred. Care must 
be taken to cook those of the same degree of hardness together. 
The slices of lemon rind should be removed from the sirup be- 
fore using. 

To Can Pineapples. — The writer has had no experience in can- 
ning this fruit, but the following method is given on good author- 
ity: Pare very carefully with a silver knife, remove all the " eyes " 
and black specks; then cut the sections in which the "eyes" 
were, in solid pieces clear down to the core. By doing this all 
the valuable part of the fruit is saved, leaving its hard, woody 



FRUIT. 71 

center. As, however, this contains considerable juice, it should 
be taken in the hands and wrung as one wrings cloth, till the 
juice is extracted, then thrown away. Prepare a sirup with one 
part sugar and two parts water, using what juice has been ob- 
tained in place of so much water. Let it boil up, skim clean, 
then add the fruit. Boil just as little as possible and have the 
fruit tender, as pineapple loses its flavor by overcooking more 
readily than any other fruit. Put into hot cans, and seal. 

Grape Juice, or Unfermeiited Wiue.— Take twenty -five pounds 
of some well-ripened, very juicy variety of grapes, like the Con- 
cord. Pick them from the stems, wash thoroughly, and scald 
without the addition of water, in double boilers until the grapes 
burst open , cool, turn into stout jelly bags, and drain off the 
juice without squeezing. Let the juice stand and settle; turn 
off the top, leaving any sediment there may be. Add to the 
juice about four pounds of best granulated sugar, reheat to boil- 
ing, skim carefully, and can the same as fruit. Keep in a cool, 
dark place. The wine, if to be sealed in bottles, will require a 
corker, and the corks should first be boiled in hot water, and the 
bottles well sterilized. 

Grape Juice No. 2.— Take grapes of the best quality, picked 
fresh from the vines. Wash well after stripping from the stems, 
rejecting any imperfect fruit. Put them in a porcelain or gran- 
ite-ware fruit kettle with one pint of water to every three quarts 
of grapes, heat to boiling, and cook slowly for fifteen minutes or 
longer, skimming as needed. Turn off the juice and carefully 
filter it through a jelly-bag, putting the seeds and skins into a 
separate bag to drain, as the juice from them will be less clear. 
Heat again to boiling, add one cupful of hot sugar to each quart 
of juice, and seal in sterilized cans or bottles. The juice from 
the skins and seeds should be canned separately. 

Another Method.— "Wash the grapes, and press out the juice 
without scalding the fruit. Strain the juice three or four times 
through muslin or cheese-cloth, allowing it to stand and settle 
for some time between each filtering. To every three pints of 
juice add one of water and two cupfuls of sugar. Heat to 
boiling, and keep at that temperature for fifteen minutes, skim 
carefully, and bottle while at boiling heat. Set away in a cool^ 
dark place. 

Fruit Sirup. — Prepare the juice expressed from strawberries, 
raspberries, currants, or grapes, as directed above for fruit juices. 
After it has come to a boil, add one pound of sugar to every 



72 EVEEY-DAY DISHES. 

quart of juice. Seal in pint cans. It may be diluted with water 
to form a pleasing beverage, and is especially useful in flavoring 
puddings and sauces. 

Lemon Sirup. — Grate the yellow portion of the rind of six 
lemons, and mix with three pounds of best granulated white 
sugar. Add one quart of water and boil until it thickens. 
Strain, add the juice of the six lemons, carefully leaving out 
the pulp and seeds ; boil ten minutes, and bottle. Diluted with 
two-thirds cold water, it forms a delicious and quickly prepared 
lemonade. 

Tomatoes^ — Select perfectly fresh and sound tomatoes, wash 
thoroughly, slice and cook for two hours in a double boiler. 
Rub through a colander to remove skins and seeds, reheat to 
boiling, and can the same as other fruits. Prepared thus, they 
are very convenient for immediate use for soups and other 
purposes. 



THE LEGUMINOUS SEEDS. 



The legumes are best cooked by stewing or boiling, 
and when mature, require slow and prolonged cooking 
to render them tender and digestible. Soft water is 
best for cooking them. The amount of water required 
will vary somewhat with the heat employed and the age 
and condition of the legume, as will also the time 
required for cooking ; but as a general rule, two quarts 
of soft water for one pint of seeds will be quite suffi- 
cient. Salt should not be added until the seeds are 
nearly done, as it hinders the cooking process. 

RECIPES. 

Stewed Split Peas.— Carefully examine and wash the peas, 
rejecting any imperfect or worm-eaten ones. Put into warm 
water and let them come to a boil ; then place the stew-pan back 
on the range and simmer gently until tender, but not mushy. 
Season with salt and a little cream if desired. They make an 
excellent and palatable dish without the addition of the cream. 

Peas Pur^e.— Soak a quart of Scotch peas in cold water over 
night. In the morning, drain and put them to cook in warm 
water. Cook slowly until perfectly tender, allowing them to 
simmer very gently toward the last until they become as dry as 
possible. Put through a colander to render them homogeneous 
and to remove the skins. Many of the skins will be loosened and 
rise to the top during the cooking, and it is well to remove these 
with a spoon so as to make the process of rubbing through the 
colander less laborious. Season with salt if desired, and a cup 
of thin cream. Nut butter in the proportion of one tablespoonful 
to the pint of peas may be used instead of cream, if preferred. 
Serve hot. 

[73] 



74 EVEKY-DAY DISHES. 

Mashed Peas. — Soak and cook a quart of peas as for peas 
puree. When well done, if the Scotch peas, rub through a col- 
ander to remove the skins. If the split peas are used, mash 
perfectlj' smooth with a potato masher. Season with a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a half cup of sweet cream, or a tablespoonful of 
nut meal, if desired. Beat well together, turn Into an earthen 
or granite-ware pudding-dish, smooth the top, and bake in a 
moderate oven until dry and mealy throughout, and nicely 
browned on top. One-third or one-half toasted bread crumbs 
maj' be used with the sifted peas when preferred. Serve hot like 
mashed potato, or with a tomato sauce prepared as follows : 
Heat a pint of strained, stewed tomato, season slightly with 
salt, and when boiling, thicken with a tablespoonful of flour 
rubbed smooth in a little water. 

Split Pea Siiecotasli. — Stew the split peas as previously di- 
rected, and when tender, add an equal quantitj- of freshly stewed 
or canned corn. Season with salt, and serve with or without the 
addition of a little thin cream. 

Baked Beans. — Pick over a quart of best white beans, and 
soak in cold water over night. Put them to cook in fresh water, 
and simmer gently till they are tender, but not broken. Let 
them be quite juicy when taken from the kettle. Season with 
salt and a teaspoonful of molasses. Put them in a deep crock in 
a slow oven. Let them bake two or three hours, or until they 
assume a reddish brown tinge, adding boiling water occasionally 
to prevent their becoming dry. Turn into a shallow dish, and 
brown nicely before sending to the table. 

Baked Beans No. 2. — Prepare and cook as directed above, 
adding two tablespoonfuls of nut butter when ready to bake. 

Stewed Beans. — Soak a quart of white beans in water over 
night. In the morning, drain, turn hot water over them an inch 
deep or more, cover, and place on the range where they will 
only just simmer, adding boiling water if needed. When nearly 
tender, add salt to taste, a tablespoonful of sugar if desired, and 
half a cup of good sweet cream. Cook slowly an hour or more 
longer, but let them be full of juice when taken up, and never 
cooked down dry and mealy. They are also excellent prepared 
thus without the addition of cream. 

Mashed Beans. — Soak over night in cold water, a quart of 
nice white beans. When ready to cook, drain, put into boiling 
water, and boil till perfectly tender, and the water nearly evap- 



The leguminous seeds. 75 

orated. Take up, rub through a colander to remove the skins, 
season with salt and a half cup of cream or a tablespoonful of 
nut butter, put in a shallow pudding-dish, smooth the top with 
a spoon, and brown. If preferred, one-half bread crumbs may 
be used with the beans. The cream may be omitted if desired, 
and the salt added before the beans are put through the colan- 
der; then allow them to remain just as they fall from it, and 
brown. Half slices of lemon arranged upon the well-browned 
surface make a pretty as well as an appetizing dish. 

Stewed Lima Beaus. — Put the beans into boiling water, and 
cook till tender, but not till they fall to pieces. Fresh beans 
should cook an hour or more, and dry ones require from two to 
three hours, unless previously soaked. They are much better to 
simmer slowly than to boil hard. They should be cooked nearly 
dr3^ Season with salt, and a cup of thin cream or rich milk to 
each pint of beans. Simmer for a few minutes after the cream 
is turned in. Should it happen that the beans become tender 
before the water is sufficiently evaporated, do not drain off the 
water, but thicken with a little flour. A little flour stirred in 
with the cream, even when the water is nearly evajiorated, may 
be preferred by some, or the cream may be omitted entirely. 

Succotash. — Boil one part Lima beans and two parts sweet 
corn separately until both are nearly tender. Put them together, 
and simmer gently till done. Season with salt and sweet cream. 
Fresh corn and beans may be combined in the same proportion ; 
but as the beans will be likely to require the most time for cook- 
ing, they should be put to boil first, and the corn added when 
the beans are about half done, unless it is exceptionally hard, in 
which case it must be added sooner. 

Pulp Succotash. — Score the kernels of some fresh green corn 
with a sharp knife-blade, then with the back of the knife scrape 
out all the pulp, leaving the hulls on the cob. Boil the pulp in 
milk ten or fifteen minutes, or until well done. Cook some fresh 
shelled beans until tender, and rub them through a colander. 
Put together an equal quantity of the beans thus prepared and 
the cooked corn pulp, season with salt and sweet cream, if 
desired, boil together for a few minutes, and serve. Kornlet and 
dried Lima beans may be made into succotash in a similar 
manner. 

Lentil Puree. — Cook the lentils and rub through a colander 
as for peas puree. Season, and serve in the same manner. 



7G EVEEY-DAY DISHES. 

Lentils Mashed with Beans. — Lentils may be cooked and 
prepared in tlie same manner as directed for mashed peas, but 
they are less strong in flavor if about one-third to one-half cooked 
white beans are used with them. 

Lentil Gtravy with Rice. — Rub a cupful of cooked lentils 
through a colander to remove the skins, add one cup of rich 
milk (part cream improves it), and salt if desired. Heat to 
boiling, and thicken with a teaspoonful of flour rubbed smooth 
in a little cold milk. If preferred, the milk may be omitted, and 
the gravy thickened with browned flour, prepared as directed on 
page 94. Serve hot on nicelj^ steamed or boiled rice, or with 
well-cooked macaroni. 

Savory Lentils. — Take equal quantities of cooked brown 
lentils that have been rubbed through a colander to remove the 
skins, and the crumbs of unfermented bread. Moisten with a 
little rich milk or cream, season with salt and a very little pow- 
dered sage, pour into a baking-dish and bake until well browned 
in a moderate oven. A tomato sauce makes a nice accompani- 
ment. A meal prepared by rubbing chopped English-walnut 
meats through a colander, added to the savory lentils, in the 
proportion of one cup of nut meal to the pint of lentils, just 
before being put in the oven to brown, makes a very palatable 
dish. When the nut meal is used, water may be used to moisten 
the lentils, if preferred. 

Cooked Peannts. — Shell the raw nuts, and blanch by pouring 
boiling water over them. After they have stood a few minutes, 
the skins can be easily rubbed off. Add to a pint of the blanched 
nuts about two quarts of water, put them into a bean-pot ; heat 
to boiling ; then place in a slow oven and cook for nine or ten 
hours. When done, they should be soft, mealy, and rich with 
juice. No seasoning except a little salt Avill be required. 

Peanut and Tomato Puree. — Prepare and cook the peanuts as 
directed in the preceding recipe. When done, rub them through 
a colander. To three cups of the peanuts, add one of strained 
stewed tomato ; season with salt ; reheat and serve. 



VEGETABLES. 



Vegetables used for culinary purposes comprise roots 
and tubers, as potatoes, turnips, etc. ; shoots and stems, 
as asparagus and sea-kale ; leaves and inflorescence, as 
spinach and cabbage ; immature seeds, grains, and seed 
receptacles, as green peas, corn, and string-beans ; and 
a few of the fruity products, as the tomato and the 
squash. Of these the tubers rank the highest in nutri- 
tive value. 

To Select Vegetables. — All roots and tubers 
should be plump, free from decay, bruises, and disease, 
and with fresh, unshriveled skins. They are good from 
the time of maturing until they begin to germinate. 
Sprouted vegetables are not good food, neither those 
which have begun to decay. 

Green vegetables, to be wholesome, should be freshly 
gathered, crisp, and juicy ; those which have lain long 
in the market are a very questionable article of food. 

Keeping Vegetables. — K necessary to keep green 
vegetables for any length of time, do not put them in 
water, as that will dissolve and destroy some of their 
juices ; but lay them in a cool, dark place, — on a stone 
floor is best, — and do not remove their outer leaves 
until you are ready to use them. They should be 
cooked the same day they are gathered, if possible. 
The best way to freshen those with stems, when with- 
ered, is to cut off a bit of the stem-end, and set only the 

[77] 



78 evee:y-day dishes. 

cut part in water. The vegetables will then absorb 
enough water to replace what has been lost by 
evaporation. 

Peas and beans should not be shelled until wanted. 
If, however, they are not used as soon as shelled, cover 
them with pods and put in a cool place. 

Winter vegetables can be best kept wholesome by 
storing in a cool, dry place of even temperature, where 
no warmth, moisture, or light is present to induce 
decay or germination. They should be well sorted, the 
bruised or decayed rejected, and the rest put into clean 
bins or boxes. They should be dry and clean when 
stored. 

Preparation and Cooking. — Most vegetables 
need thorough washing before cooking. Koots and 
tubers should be well cleaned before paring. A vege- 
table brush or a small whisk broom is especially serv- 
iceable for this purpose. If necessary to wash shelled 
beans and peas, it is best accomplished by putting them 
in a colander and dipping in and out of a large pan of 
water until clean. Spinach, lettuce, and other leaves 
may be cleaned in the same way. 

A general rule, applicable to all vegetables to be 
boiled or stewed, is to cook them in as little water as 
possible without burning. Those to be cooked by boil- 
ing should be put into actively boiling water. 

Vegetables not of uniform size should either be so 
assorted that those of the same size may be cooked 
together, or large ones should be divided. In the 
sprhig, when potatoes are beginning to shrivel, they 
are freshened by soaking several hours before cooking. 
Vegetables should be cooked until they are perfectly 



VEGETABLES. i V 

tender but not overdone. The time required for cook- 
ing depends upon the age and freshness of the vege- 
tables as well as the method of cooking. If wilted, 
they require a longer time for cooking than when fresh. 

RECIPES. 

POTATOES. 

Boiled Potatoes (in jacliets). — Choose potatoes of uniform 
size, free from specks. Wash them well with a coarse cloth or 
brush; dig out all ej'es, and rinse in cold water; cook in just 
enough boiling water to prevent burning, till easily pierced with a 
fork, but not till they have burst the skin and fallen in pieces. 
Drain thoroughly, take out the potatoes, and place them in the 
oven for five minutes, or place the kettle back on the range ; re- 
move the skins, and cover with a cloth to absorb all moisture, 
and let them steam three or four minutes. By either method 
they will be dry and mealy. In removing the skins, draw them 
off without cutting the potatoes. 

Boiled Potatoes (witliout skins). — Pare very thin, and wash 
clean. If not of an equal size, cut the larger potatoes in two. 
Cook in only sufficient water to prevent burning, until a fork will 
easily pierce their center ; drain thoroughly, place the kettle 
back on the range, allow most of the steam to escape before cov- 
ering them, leave a small aperture for the escaping steam, and let 
them dry four or five minutes. Shake the kettle several times 
while they are drying, to make them floury. 

Steamed Potatoes. — Potatoes may be steamed either with or 
without the skin. Only mature potatoes should be steamed. 
Prepare as for boiling ; place in a steamer over boiling water and 
steam until tender. If water is needed to replenish, let it be 
boiling hot, and do not allow the potatoes to stop steaming, or 
they will be watery. When done, uncover, remove the potatoes 
to the oven, and let them dry a few minutes. If peeled before 
steaming, shake the steamer occasionally, to make them floury. 

Roasted Potatoes. — Potatoes are much more rich and mealy 
roasted, than when cooked in any other way. Wash them care- 
fully, dry with a cloth, and wrap in tissue paper ; bury in ashes 
not too hot, then cover with coals, and roast until tender. The 
coals will need renewing occasionally, unless the roasting is done 
very close to the main fire. 



80 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

Baked Potatoes. — Choose large, smooth potatoes as nearly 
the same size as possible ; wash and scrub with a brush until 
perfectly clean ; dry with a cloth, and bake in a moderately 
hot oven (the heat of which should at no time be so great that 
the hand cannot be held therein while moderately counting 
twenty-five) until a fork will easily pierce them, or until they 
yield to pressure be ween the fingers. They should be turned 
about occasionally. In a slow oven the skins become hardened 
and thickened, and much of the most nutritious portion is 
wasted. When done, take up in a clean cloth, press each one till 
it bursts slightly, as that will allow the steam to escape, and pre- 
vent the potatoes from becoming soggy. They should be served 
at once, in a folded napkin placed in a hot dish. Cold baked 
potatoes may be warmed over by rebaking, if of good quality, 
and not overdone the first time. Old potatoes with shriveled 
skins are better pared before baking. 

Stuffed Potatoes. — Prepare and bake large potatoes of equal 
size as directed in the preceding recipe. When done, cut them 
evenly three fourths of an inch from the end, and scrape out the 
inside, taking care not to break the skins. Season the potato 
with salt and a little thick sweet cream, being careful not to 
have it too moist, and beat thoroughly with a fork until light ; 
refill the skins with the seasoned potato, fit the broken portions 
together, and reheat in the oven. When heated throughout, 
wrap the potatoes in squares of white tissue paper fringed at both 
ends. Twist the ends of the paper lightly together above the 
fringe, and stand the potatoes in a vegetable dish with the cut 
end uppermost. When served, the potatoes are held in the hand, 
one end of the paper untwisted, the top of the potato removed, 
and the contents eaten with a fork or spoon. 

Broiled Potatoes. — Potatoes to be broiled should first be par- 
boiled. Cut in slices one-half inch in thickness, place in a wire 
broiler, and brown, turning both sides until browned evenly. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Peel and slice potatoes enough to make 
two quarts; put into boiling water and cook until perfectly 
tender, but not much broken ; drain, add salt to taste ; turn into 
a "hot earthen dish, and set in the oven for a few moments to dry. 
Break up the potatoes with a silver fork ; add nearly a cup of 
cream, and beat hard at least five minutes till light and creamy ; 
serve at once, or they will become heavy. If preferred, the po- 
tatoes may be rubbed through a hot sieve onto a hot plate, or 



VEGETABLES. 81 

mashed with a potato beetle ; but they are less light and flaky 
when mashed with a beetle. A well-beaten egg makes a very 
good substitute for the cream. Use in the proportion of one egg 
to about five potatoes. Two tablespoonfuls of nut butter may be 
used instead of cream, if preferred. If all utensils and ingredi- 
ents for mashed potatoes are first heated, the result will be much 
better. 

New Potatoes. — When potatoes are young and freshly gath- 
ered, the skins are easily removed by taking each one at a time 
in a coarse cloth and rubbing it ; a little coarse salt used in the 
cloth will be found serviceable. If nearly ripe, scrape with a 
blunt knife, wash very clean, and rinse in cold water. Boil- 
ing is the best tnethod of cooking new potatoes. Use only 
sufficient water to cover, and boil till tender. Drain thor- 
oughly, cover closely with a clean cloth, and dry before 
serving. 

Scalloped Potatoes. — Pare the potatoes and slice thin; put 
them in layers in an earthen pudding-dish, dredge each layer 
lightly with flour, add salt, and pour over all enough good, rich 
milk to cover well. Cover, and bake rather slowly till tender, 
removing the cover just long enough before the potatoes are 
done to brown nicely. If preferred, a little less milk may be 
used, and a cup of thin cream added when the potatoes are 
nearly done. 

Stewed Potatoes. — Pare the potatoes and slice rather thin. 
Put into boiling water, and cook until nearly tender, but not 
broken. Have some rich milk boiling in the inner dish of a 
double boiler, add to it a little salt, then stir in for each pint of 
milk a heaping teaspoonful of corn-starch or rice-flour, rubbed 
smooth in a little cold milk. Stir until it thickens. Drain the 
potatoes, turn them into the hot sauce, put the dish in the outer 
boiler, and cook for a half hour or longer. Cold boiled potatoes 
may be sliced and used in the same way. Cold baked potatoes 
sliced and stewed thus for an hour or more, make a particularly 
appetizing dish. 

Potatoes Stewed with Celery. — Pare and slice the potatoes, 
and put them into a stew-pan with two or three tablespoonfuls 
of minced celery. Use only the white part of the celery, and 
mince it finely. Cover the whole with milk sufficient to cook 
and prevent burning, and stew until tender. Season with salt 
and cream, if desired. 
6 



82 EVEEY-DAY DISHES. 

Potato Cakes. — Make nicely seasoned, cold mashed potato 
into small round cakes about one half an inch thick. Put them 
on a baking-tin, brush them over with sweet cream or nut but- 
ter, and bake in a hot oven till golden brown. 

Warmed-over Potatoes. — Cut cold boiled potatoes into very 
thin slices ; heat a little cream to boiling in a saucepan ; add the 
potato, season slightly with salt if desired, and cook until the 
cream is absorbed, stirring occasionally so as to prevent scorch- 
ing. Be careful not to break the slices. Nut butter dissolved 
in water may be used in place of cream, if preferred. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. — Select those of uniform size, wash 
clean, cutting out any imperfect spots, wipe dry, put into a 
moderately hot oven, and bake about one hour or until the 
largest will yield to gentle pressure between the fingers. Serve 
at once without peeling. Small sweet potatoes are best steamed, 
since if baked, the skins will take up nearly the whole potato. 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes. — Choose potatoes of equal size; do 
not pare, but after cleaning them well and removing any imper- 
fect spots, put into cold water, and boil until they can be easily 
pierced with a fork ; drain thoroughly, and lay them on the top 
grate in the oven to dry for five or ten minutes. Peel as soon as 
dry, and send at once to the table, in a hot dish covered with a 
folded napkin. 

Mashed Sweet Potatoes. — Either bake or steam nice sweet 
potatoes, and when tender, peel, mash them well, and season 
with cream and salt to taste. They may be served at once, or 
made into patties and browned in the oven. 

Potato Hash. — Take equal parts of cold Irish and sweet 
potatoes; chop fine and mix thoroughly; season with salt if 
desired, and add sufficient rich milk to moisten well. Turn into 
a stew-pan, and heat gently until boiling, tossing continually, 
that all parts may become heated alike, and serve at once. 

TURNIPS. 

Boiled Turuips. — Turnips, like other vegetables, should be 
boiled in as small an amount of water as possible. Great care 
must be taken, however, that the kettle does not become dry, as 
scorched turnip is spoiled. An excellent precaution, in order to 
keep them from scorching in case the water becomes low, is to 
place an inverted saucer in the bottom of the kettle before put- 
ting in the turnips. Put into boiling water, cook rapidly until 
sufficiently tender to be pierced easily with a fork ; too much 



VEGETABLES. 83 

cooking discolors and renders them strong in flavor. Boiled 
turnips should be drained very thoroughly, and all water pressed 
out before preparing for the table. The age, size, and variety of 
the turnip will greatly vary the time necessary for its cooking. 
The safest rule is to allow plenty of time, and test with a fork. 
Young turnips will cook in about forty-five minutes ; old turnips, 
sliced, require from one and a quarter to two hours. If whole 
or cut in halves, they require a proportionate length of time. 
White turnips require much less cooking than yellow ones. 

Chopped Turnips.— Chop well-boiled white turnips very fine, 
add salt to taste, and sufficient lemon juice to moisten. Turn 
into a saucepan and heat till hot, gently lifting and stirring 
constantly. Cold boiled turnip may be advantageously used in 
this way. 

Mashed Turnips.— Wash the turnips, pare, and drop into 
boiling water. Cook until perfectly tender ; turn into a colander 
and press out the water with a plate or large spoon ; mash until 
free from lumps, season with a little sweet cream, and salt if 
desired. If the turnips are especially watery, one or two hot, 
mealy potatoes mashed with them will be an improvement. 

Scalloped Turuips.— Prepare and boil whole white turnips 
until nearly tender ; cut into thin slices, lay in an earthen pud- 
ding-dish, pour over them a white sauce sufficient to cover, made 
by cooking a tablespoonful of flour in a pint of milk (part cream 
if preferred) until thickened. Season with salt, sprinkle the top 
lightly with grated bread crumbs, and bake in a quick oven 
until a rich brown. Place the baking-dish on a clean plate and 
serve. Rich milk or cream may be used instead of white sauce, 
if preferred. 

PARSNIPS. 

Baked Parsnips.— Wash thoroughly, but do not scrape the 
roots; bake the same as potatoes. When tender, remove the 
skins, slice, and serve with cream or an egg sauce prepared as 
directed for parsnips with egg sauce. They are also very nice 
mashed and seasoned with cream. Baked and steamed parsnips 
are far sweeter than boiled ones. 

Boiled Parsnips.— Clean, scrape, drop into a small quantity 
of boiling water, and cook until they can be easily pierced with 
a fork. Drain thoroughly, cut the parsnips in slices, and mash 
or serve with a white sauce, to which a little lemon juice may 
be added if desired. 



84 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

Mashed Parsnips. — Wash and scrape, dropping at once into 
cold water to prevent discoloration. Slice thinly, and steam, or 
bake whole until perfectly tender. When done, mash until free 
from lumps, removing all hard or stringy portions ; add salt to 
taste and a few spoonfuls of thick sweet cream, and serve. 

Parsnips witii Cream Sance. — Bake as previously directed. 
When tender, slice, cut into cubes, and pour over them a cream 
sauce prepared as for turnips with cream sauce. Boil up together 
once, and serve. 

Parsnips witli Egg Sauce. — Scrape, wash, and slice thinly, 
enough parsnips to malve three pints ; steam, bake, or boil them 
until very tender. If boiled, turn into a colander and drain well. 
Have ready an egg sauce, prepared by heating a pint of rich 
milk or very thin cream to boiling, and stirring into it a level 
tablespoonful of flour rubbed smooth with a little milk. Let 
this boil a few minutes, stirring constantly until the flour is 
well cooked and the sauce thickened ; then add slowly the well- 
beaten yolk of one egg, stirring rapidly so that it shall be well 
mingled with the whole ; add salt to taste ; let it boil up once, 
pour over the parsnips, and serve. The sauce should be of the 
consistency of thick cream. 

Stewed Parsnips with Celery.— Prepare and steam or boil 
some nice parsnips until about half done. If boiled, drain thor- 
oughly ; add salt if desired, and a tablespoonful of minced 
celery. Turn rich boiling millc over them, cover, and stew 
fifteen or twenty minutes, or till perfectly tender. 

CARROTS. 

Boiled Carrots. — Wash, scrape, drop into boiling water, and 
cook till tender ; drain thoroughly. Slice, and serve with a cream 
sauce. Varieties with strong flavor are better parboiled for fif- 
teen or twenty minutes, and put into fresh boiling water to finish. 

Carrots with Egg Sauce. — Wash and scrape well; slice and 
throw-'into boiling water or else steam. When tender, drain 
thoroughly, and pour over them a sauce prepared the same as 
directed for parsnips, with the addition of a tablespoonful of 
sugar. Let them boil up once, and serve. 

Stewed Carrots. — Prepare young and tender carrots, drop 
into boiling water, and cook for fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Drain, slice, and put into a stew-pan with rich milk or cream to 
nearly cover ; simmer gently until tender ; season with salt and 
a little chopped parsley. 



VEGETABLES. 85 

BEETS. 

Baked Beets.— Beets are far better baked than boiled, though 
it talces a longer time to cook properly. French cooks bake them 
slowly for six hours in a covered dish, the bottom of which is 
lined with well-moistened rye straw; however, they may be 
baked on the oven grate, like potatoes. Wipe dry after washing, 
and bake slowly. They are very nice served with a sauce made 
with equal quantities of lemon juice and whipped cream, with 
a little salt. 

Beets ami Potatoes.— Boil newly matured potatoes and young 
beets separately till tender ; then peel and slice. Put them in 
alternate layers in a vegetable dish, with salt to taste, and 
enough sweet cream to nearly cover. Brown in the oven, and 
serve at once. 

Beet Hash. — Chop quite finely an equal quantity of cold 
boiled or baked beets and boiled or baked potatoes. Put into 
a shallow saucepan, add salt and sufficient hot cream to 
moisten. Toss frequently, and cook until well heated through- 
out. Serve hot. 

Beet Greens.— Take young, tender beets, clean thoroughly 
without separating the tops and roots. Examine the leaves care- 
fully, and pick off inferior ones. Put into boiling water, and 
cook for nearly an hour. Drain, press out all water, and chop 
quite fine. Serve with a dressing of lemon juice or cream, as 
preferred. 

Beet Salad, or Chopped Beets.— Cold boiled or baked beets, 
chopped quite fine but not minced, make a nice salad when 
served with a dressing of lemon juice and whipped cream in 
the proportion of three tablespoonfuls of lemon juice to one-half 
cup of whipped cream, and salt if desired. 

Boiled Beets. — Wash carefully, drop into boiling water, and 
cook until tender. When done, drop into cold water for a min- 
ute, after which the skins can be easily rubbed off with the hand. 
Slice, and serve hot with lemon juice or with a cream sauce. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Boiled Cauliflower. — Prepare, divide into neat branches, and 
tie securely in a net. Put into boiling milk and water, equal 
quantities, and cook until the main stalks are tender. Boil 
rapidly the first five minutes, afterwards more moderately, 
to prevent the flower from becoming done before the stalks. 
Serve on a hot dish with cream sauce or diluted lemon juice. 



86 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

Cauliflower with Egg Sauce. — Steam the cauliflower until 
tender, separate into small portions, dish, and serve with an egg 
sauce prepared as directed for parsnips on page 84. 

Cauliflower witli Tomato Sauce. — Boil or steam the cauliflower 
until tender. In another dish prepare a sauce with a pint of 
strained stewed tomatoes heated to boiling, thickened with a 
tablespoonful of flour rubbed smooth in a little water, and salted 
to taste. When the cauliflower is tender, dish, and pour over it 
the hot tomato sauce. If preferred, a tablespoonful of thick 
sweet cream may be added to the sauce before using. 

Stewed Cauliflower. — Boil in as little water as possible, or 
steam until tender ; separate into small portions, add milk, cream, 
and salt to taste ; stew together for a few minutes, and serve. 

Scalloped Cauliflower. — Prepare the cauliflower, and steam or 
boil until tender. If boiled, use equal quantities of milk and 
water. Separate into bunches of equal size, place in a pudding- 
dish, cover with a white or cream sauce, sprinkle with grated 
bread crumbs, and brown in the oven. 

CABBAGE. 

Boiled Cabbage. — Carefully clean a nice head of cabbage, 
divide into halves, and with a sharp knife slice very thin, cut- 
ting from the center of the head outward. Put into boiling 
water, cover closely, and cook rapidly until tender ; then turn 
into a colander and drain, pressing gently with the back of a 
plate. Return to the kettle, add salt to taste, and sufficient 
sweet cream to moisten well ; heat through if at all cooled ; dish, 
and serve at once. If preferred, the cream may be omitted, and 
the cabbage served with tomato sauce or lemon juice as a dressing. 
Cabbage and Tomatoes. — Boil finely chopped cabbage in as 
little water as possible. When tender, add half the quantity of 
hot stewed tomatoes, boil together for a few minutes, being care- 
ful to avoid burning; season with salt if desired, and serve. If 
preferred, a little sweet cream may be added just before serving- 
Cabbage Celery. — A firm, crisp head of cabbage cut in slices 
half an inch or an inch thick, and then again into pieces four or 
five inches long and two or three inches wide, makes quite an ap- 
petizing substitute for celery. 

Cabbage Hash. — Chop fine, equal parts of cold boiled potatoes 
and boiled cabbage, and season with salt. To each quart of the 
mixture add one half or three fourths of a cup of thin cream ; 
mix well and boil till well heated. 



VEGETABLES. 87 

Chopped Cabbage, or Cabbage Salad.— Take one pint of finely 
chopped raw cabbage; pour over it a dressing made of three 
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and a 
half cup of whipped cream, thoroughlj' beaten together in the 
order named; or serve with sugar and diluted lemon juice. 
Strained tomatoes with a tablespoonful of lemon juice to the pint 
also makes a nice dressing. 

Mashed Cabbage.— Cut a fine head of cabbage into quarters, 
and cook until tender. A half hour before it is done, drop in 
three good-sized potatoes. When done, take all up in a colander 
together, press out the water, and mash very fine. Season with 
cream, and salt if desired. 

Stewed Cabbage.— Chop nice cabbage quite fine, and put it 
into boiling water, letting it boil twenty minutes. Turn into 
a colander and drain thoroughly; return to the kettle, cover 
with milk, and boil till perfectly tender ; season with salt and 
cream to taste. The beaten yolk of an egg, stirred in with the 
cream, is considered an improvement by some. 

CELERY. 

Celery Salad.— Break the stems apart, cut off all green por- 
tions, and after washing well, put into cold water for an hour or 
so before serving. 

Stewed Celery.— Cut the tender inner parts of celery heads 
into pieces about a finger long. The outer and more fibrous 
stalks may be saved to season soups. Put in a stew-pan, and add 
sufficient water to cover ; then cover the pan closely, and set it 
where it will just simmer, for an hour, or until the celery is 
perfectly tender. When cooked, add a pint of rich milk, part 
cream if you have it, salt to taste, and when boiling, stir in a 
tablespoonful of fiour rubbed smooth in a little milk. Boil up 
once and serve. 

Celery with Tomato Sauce.— Prepare the celery as in the pre- 
ceding recipe, and cook until tender in a small quantity of boil- 
ing water. Drain in a colander, and for three cups of stewed 
celery prepare a sauce with a pint of strained stewed tomato, 
heated to boiling and thickened with a tablespoonful of flour 
rubbed smooth in a little cold water. If desired, add a half cup 
of thin cream. Turn over the celery, and serve hot. 

Celery and Potato Hash.— To three cups of cold boiled or 
baked potato, chopped rather fine, add one cup of cooked celery, 
minced. Put into a shallow saucepan with cream enough to 



88 EVERY-DAY DISHES, 

moisten well, and salt to season. Heat to boiling, tossing and 
stirring so that the whole will be heated throughout, and serve 
while hot. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Asparagus and Peas. — Asparagus and green peas make a nice 
dish served together, and if of proportionate age, require the 
same length of time to cook. Wash the asparagus, shell and look 
over the peas, put together into boiling water, cook, and serve as 
directed for stewed asparagus. 

Asparagus Points. — Cut otf enough heads in two-inch lengths 
to make three pints. Put into boiling water just sufficient to 
cover. When tender, drain off the water, add a half cup of 
cream, and salt if desired. Serve at once. 

Asparagus with Cream Sauce.— Thoroughly wash, tie in small 
bunches, and put into boiling water; boil till perfectly tender. 
Drain thoroughly, untie the bunches, place the stalks, all the 
same way upon a hot plate, with a dressing prepared as follows : 
Let a pint of sweet cream (about six hours old is best) come to 
the boiling point, and stir into it salt to taste and a level table- 
spoonful of flour rubbed smooth with a little cold cream. Boil 
till the flour is perfectly cooked, and then pass through a fine 
wire strainer. 

Asparagus on Toast.— Cook the asparagus in bunches, and 
when tender, drain and place on slices of nicely browned toast 
moistened in the asparagus liquor. Pour over all a cream sauce 
prepared as directed in the foregoing recipe. 

Asparagus with Egg Sauce.— Prepare and cook asparagus as 
directed above. When tender, drain thoroughly, and serve on a 
hot dish or on slices of nicely browned toast, with an egg sauce 
prepared in the following manner : Heat a half cup of rich milk 
to boiling, add salt, and turn into it very slowly the well-beaten 
yolk of an egg, stirring constantly at the same time. Let the 
whole just thicken, and remove from the fire at once. 

Stewed Asparagus. — Wash, break into inch pieces, simmer till 
tender in water enough to cover ; add sufficient rich milk, part 
cream if convenient, to make a gravy, if preferred, thicken 
slightly with flour, a teaspoonful to a pint of milk ; add salt if 
desired, boil up together once, and serve. 

SPINACH. 

Spinach. — Use only tender plants or the tender leaves of the 
older stalks, and be sure to have enough, as spinach shrinks 
greatly. A peck is not too much for a family of four or five. 



VEGETABLES. 89 

Pick it over very carefully, trim off the roots and decaj^ed leaves, 
and all tough, stringy stalks, and the coarse fibers of the leaves, 
as those will not cook tender until the leaves are overdone. 
Wash in several waters, lifting it from one pan to another, that 
it may be freed from sand and grit. Shake each bunch well 
Spinach is best cooked in its own juices ; this may be accom- 
plished by cooking it in a double boiler ; or if placed in a pot and 
slowly heated, it will in a short time yield sufficient juice to cook 
itself. It must, however, be stirred frequently at first, to prevent 
burning ; cover closely, and cook till tender. The time required 
will vary from twenty minutes to an hour or more. If water is 
used in the cooking, have a half kettleful boiling when the spin- 
ach is put in, and continue to boil rapidly until the leaves are 
perfectly tender , then drain in a colander, press with the back of 
a plate to extract all water, chop very fine, and either serve with 
lemon juice as a dressing, or add a half cup of sweet cream with 
or without a teaspoonful of svigar. Boil up once, stirring con- 
stantly, and serve very hot. A garnish of sliced boiled eggs is 
often employed with this vegetable. 

LETTUCE AND RADISHES. 

Lettuce. — Wash each leaf separately, put into cold water, 
and set on ice or on the cellar bottom for an hour or more before 
using. Dry the leaves with a soft towel, and use whole or tear 
into convenient pieces with a silver fork ; never cut with a knife. 
Serve with a dressing prepared of equal quantities of lemon 
juice and sugar, diluted with a little ice-water ; or with a dress- 
ing of cream and sugar, in the proportion of three or four table- 
spoonfuls of thin cream to a teaspoonful of sugar. The dressing 
may be prepared, and after the sugar is dissolved, a very little 
lemon juice (just enough to thicken the cream slightly, but not 
sufficient to curdle it) may be added, if desired. 

Lettuce Salad with Tomato Dressing. — Prepare the lettuce as 
previously directed, and serve with a dressing of strained, stewed 
tomato and lemon juice, in the proportion of one tablepoonful of 
lemon juice to one small cup of tomato, with salt to season. A 
garnish of the chopped or grated yolks of hard-boiled eggs makes 
a pleasing addition. 

Radishes. — Wash thoroughly young and tender radishes, and 
arrange in a glass dish with the taper ends meeting. Scatter 
bits of cracked ice among them. An inch of the stem, if left 
on, serves as a convenience in handling. 



90 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

SQUASH. 

Maslied Summer Squash.— Wash, peel, remove seeds, and steam 
until tender. Place the squash in a clean cloth, mash thoroughly, 
squeeze until the squash is quite dry, or rub through a fine col- 
ander, and afterward simmer until nearly dry ; season with 
cream, and a little salt if desired, and heat again before serv- 
ing. A teaspoonful of sugar may be added with the cream, if 
desired. 

Summer Squash with Egg Sauce. — Prepare, steam till tender, 
cut into pieces, and serve with an egg sauce as directed for as- 
paragus, page 88. 

Stewed Summer Squash.— Prepare, cut into pieces, and stew 
until tender in a small quantity of boiling water ; drain, pressing 
out all the water ; serve on toast with cream or white sauce. Or, 
divide in quarters, remove the seeds, cook in a double boiler, in 
its own juices, which when done may be thickened with a little 
flour. Season with salt if desired, and serve hot. 

Baked Squash. — The hard-shell varieties are best for baking. 
Wash, divide, and lay, shells downward, on the top grate of the 
oven, or place in a shallow baking-dish with a little boiling 
water. Bake until tender, serve in the shell, or scrape out the 
soft part, mash, and serve with two large tablespoonf uls of cream 
to a pint of squash. If preferred, the shells may be removed 
before baking, and the squash served the same as sweet potato, 
for which it makes a good substitute. 

Steamed Squash. — Prepare the squash, and steam until ten- 
der. Mash and season as for baked squash. 

TOMATOES. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. — Take a pint of stewed tomatoes, which 
have been rubbed through a colander, thicken with one and one- 
fourth cups of lightly picked crumbs of graham or whole-wheat 
bread, or a sufficient quantity to make it quite thick; add salt 
if desired, and a half cup of sweet cream ; mix well, and bake 
for twenty minutes. Or, fill a pudding-dish with alternate layers 
of peeled and sliced tomatoes and bread crumbs, letting the top- 
most layer be of tomatoes. Cover, and bake in a moderate oven 
for an hour or longer, according to depth. Uncover, and brown 
for ten or fifteen minutes. 

Stewed Corn and Tomatoes.— Boil dried or fresh corn until 
perfectly tender, add to each cup of corn two cups of stewed, 



VEGETABLES. 91 

strained tomatoes, either canned or freshly cooked. Salt to 
taste, boil together for five or ten minutes, and serve plain or 
with a little cream added. 

Tomato Gravy. — Heat to boiling one pint of strained stewed 
tomatoes, either canned or fresh, and thicken with a tablespoon- 
ful of flour rubbed smooth in a little water ; add salt, and when 
thickened, if desired, a half cup of hot cream. Boil together for 
a minute or two, and serve at once. 

Tomato Salad. — Select perfectly ripe tomatoes, and peel at 
least an hour before using. Slice, and place on ice or in a cool 
place. Serve plain or with lemon juice or sugar, as preferred. 

Stewed Tomatoes. — Peel and slice the tomatoes. Put them 
into a double boiler, without the addition of water, and stew for 
an hour or longer. When done, serve plain with a little sugar 
added, or season with salt and a tablespoonful of rather thick 
sweet cream to each pint of tomatoes. If the tomatoes are thin 
and very juicy, they may be thickened with a teaspoonful of 
flour rubbed smooth in a little cold water. They are much 
better, however, to stew until the water they contain is suffi- 
ciently evaporated to make them of the desired consistencj'. 
The stew may also be thickened by the addition of bread 
crumbs, rice, or macaroni. 

Tomato with Okra. — Wash the okra, cut off the stem and 
nibs, and slice thin. For a quart of sliced okra, peel and slice 
tiiree large tomatoes. Stew the tomatoes for half an hour, then 
add the okra, and simmer together for half an hour longer. 
Season with salt and a little cream. 

VEGETABLE OYSTERS. 

Scalloped Vegetable Oysters. — Boil two quarts of sliced vege- 
table oysters in about two quarts of water until very tender. 
Skim them out, and fill a pudding-dish with alternate layers of 
crumbs and oysters, having a layer of crumbs for the top. To 
the water in which they were boiled, add a pint and a half ol 
thin cream, salt to taste, boil up, and thicken with a heaping 
tablespoonful or two scant teaspoonfuls of flour rubbed smooth in 
a little cold cream. Pour this over the oysters and crumbs, and 
bake half an hour. If this is not enough to cover well, add more 
cream or milk. Stewed tomatoes are a nice accompaniment for 
scalloped vegetable oysters. Cooked macaroni may be used in 
place of bread crumbs, if preferred. 



92 EVEKY-DAY DISHES. 

Stewetl Vegetable Oysters. — "Wash, scrape, and cut into slices 
not more than one-half inch in thickness. Put into a small 
quantity of boiling water, and cook until tender. If a large 
quantity of water is used, the savory juices escape, and leave 
the roots very insipid. When tender, pour in a cup of rich milk 
and simmer for five or ten minutes ; add a little flour rubbed 
smooth in milk, and salt if desired ; boil up once, and serve as 
a vegetable or on slices of nicely browned toast. If preferred, a 
well-beaten egg may be used in place of the flour. 

CORN. 

Baked Corn. — Select nice fresh ears of tender corn of as 
nearly equal size as possible. Open the husks and remove all 
the silk from the corn ; replace and tie the husks around the 
ears with a thread. Put the corn in a hot oven, and bake thirty 
minutes or until tender. Remove the husks before serving. 

Baked Corn No. 2. — Scrape enough corn from the cob (as 
directed for corn pulp) to make one and a half quarts. Put 
into a baking-dish, season with salt if desired, add enough 
milk, part cream if convenient, barely to cover the corn, and 
bake in a hot oven twenty-five or thirty minutes. 

Boiled Green Corn. — Remove the husks and every thread of 
the silk fiber. Place in a kettle, the larger ears at the bottom, 
with sufficient boiling water to nearly cover. Cover with the 
clean inner husks, and cook from twenty to thirty minutes, 
according to the age of the corn ; too much cooking hardens it, 
and detracts from its flavor. When the milk has thickened, and 
a raw taste is no longer apparent, it is sufficiently cooked. Green 
corn is said to be sweeter if boiled with the inner husks on. For 
cooking in this way, strip off all outer husks, and remove the 
silk, tying the inner husk around the ear with a bit of thread, 
and boil. Remove from the kettle, place in a heated dish, cover 
with a napkin and serve at once on the cob. Some recommend 
scoring or splitting the corn by drawing a sharp knife through 
each row lengthwise. This is a wise precaution against insuffi- 
cient mastication. 

Stewed Corn Pulp. — Take six ears of green corn or enough to 
make a pint of raw pulp ; with a sharp knife cut a thin shaving 
from each row of kernels or score each kernel, and with the 
back of the knife scrape out the pulp, taking care to leave the 
hulls on the cob. Heat a cup and a half of rich milk (part 



VEGETABLES. 93 

cream is preferable) to boiling, add the corn, cook twenty or 
thirty minutes ; season with salt and a teaspoonful of sugar if 
desired. 

Stewed Green Corn.— Cut the corn from the cob, and with 
the back of the knife scrape out all the pulp, being careful to 
leave the hulls on the cob. Put into a stewpan with half as 
much water as corn, cover closely, and stew gently until thor- 
oughly cooked, stirring frequently to prevent the corn from 
sticking to the pan ; add cream or milk to make the requisite 
amount of juice, and season with salt if desired. A teaspoonful 
of white sugar may be added. 

Cold boiled corn cut from the cob and stewed a few minutes 
in a little milk makes a very palatable dish. 

Sunmier Succotash.— This may be made by cooking sepa- 
rately until tender equal quantities of shelled beans and corn 
cut from the cob, and then mixing them ; or the beans may be 
cooked until nearly soft, an equal quantity of shaved corn 
added, and the whole cooked fifteen or twenty minutes or longer. 
Season with cream, and salt if desired. 

PEAS. 

Stewed Peas. — If from the garden, pick and shell the peas 
with clean hands; if from the market, wash the pods before 
shelling, so that the peas will not require washing, as they are 
much better without. When shelled, put into a colander and 
sift out the fine particles and undeveloped blossoms. If not of 
equal growth, sort the peas and put the older ones to cook ten 
minutes before the others. Use a porcelain or granite-ware 
kettle, with one-half pint of boiling water for each quart of 
peas, if young and tender; older ones, which require longer 
stewing, need more. Cover closely, and simmer gently till ten- 
der. The time required for young peas is from twenty-five to 
thirty minutes; older ones require from forty to fifty minutes. 
Serve without draining, season with salt and enough sweet 
cream to make them as juicy as desired. If preferred, the peas 
may be stewed in a larger quantity of water, and served in their 
own juices thickened with a little flour and seasoned with salt. 

BEANS. 

Lima Beans. — Lima beans are not good until they are full 
grown and have turned white. Shell, wash, cover with boiling 



94 EVEKY-DAY DISHES. 

water, and cook about one hour, or until tender. Let the water 
nearly evaporate, and add milk or cream thickened with a little 
flour. Season with salt to taste, boil up once, and serve. The 
thickening may be omitted, if preferred. Dry Lima beans are 
also excellent soaked overnight, then cooked slowly for several 
hours, and served with only a seasoning of salt. The prolonged, 
slow cooking adds much to their palatability. 

Shelled Beans* — Shell, wash, drop into boiling water suffi- 
cient to cover, and cook until tender. Let the water boil nearly 
away, and serve without draining. Season with thin cream, 
and salt if desired. 

String Beans. — Wash well in cold water. Remove the strong 
fibers, or strings, as they are called, by paring both edges with a 
sharp knife ; few cooks do this thoroughly. Break oflf stems 
and points, carefully rejecting any imperfect or diseased pods. 
Lay a handful evenly on a board and cut them all at once into 
inch lengths. A better way, perhaps, is to break each separately 
with the fingers. Only tender beans can be thus broken, and 
any portions of the string remaining will be discovered in the 
breaking. Put in a porcelain or granite- ware kettle, cover with 
boiling water, and coolc from one to three hours, according 
to age and variety, testing frequently, as they should be re- 
moved from the kettle just as soon as done. When very young 
and tender, only water sufficient to keep them from burning 
will be needed. When done, add half a cup of thin cream for a 
quart of beans, and salt to taste. If the quantity of juice is con- 
siderable, thicken with a little flour. 

GRAVIES AND SAUCES FOR VEGETABLES. 

Brown Sauce. — Heat a pint of thin cream, and when boiling, 
add half a teaspoonful of salt and two tablespoonfuls of flour 
browned in the oven, and rubbed to a smooth paste with a little 
cold milk. Allow it to boil rapidly, stirring constantly until 
thickened ; then cook more slowly, in a double boiler, for five or 
ten minutes. If desired, the milk may be flavored with onion be- 
fore adding the flour. This makes a good dressing for potatoes. 

Cream or White Sauce. — Heat a pint of rich milk, or part 
cream, to boiling, and stir into it one tablespoonful of flour pre- 
viously rubbed smooth in a little milk. With some brands of 
flour, a larger quantity may be needed, as there is a difference in 
the thickening property of different flours, Season with salt, and 



VEGETABLES. " 95 

cook in a double boiler five or ten minutes, stirring frequently, 
that no lumps be formed. If lumps are found in the sauce, turn 
it quickly through a fine, hot colander into the dish in which it 
is to be served. 

Celery Sauce. — Cut half a dozen stalks of celery into finger- 
lengths, and simmer in milk for ten or fifteen minutes. Skim 
out the celery, add a little cream to the milk, salt to taste, and 
thicken with flour as for white sauce. This is very nice for 
potatoes and for toast. 

Egg Sauce. — Heat a pint of milk to boiling, and stir in a 
dessert-spoonful of flour rubbed smooth in a little milk. Stir 
constantly until the sauce is well thickened ; add the well- 
beaten yolk of an &^^, turning it in very slowly and stirring 
rapidly, so that it shall be well mingled. Boil up once only, add 
a very little salt, and serve. The (^gg makes an excellent sub- 
stitute for cream. 

Pease Gravy. — A gravy prepared either of dried or green 
pease as directed for lentil gravy on page 7G makes a suitable 
dressing for baked potatoes. Lentil gravy is also good for the 
same purpose. The addition of a little lemon juice to the lentil 
gravy makes another variety. 

Tomato Gravy. — A gravy made of tomatoes as directed on 
page 91 is excellent to use on baked or boiled sweet potatoes. 

Tomato Cream Gravy.— Prepare a gravy as for cream sauce, 
using a slightly heaping measure of flour. When done, add, 
just before serving, for each quart of the cream sauce, one cup 
of hot stewed tomato Avhich has been put through a fine col- 
ander to remove all seeds. Beat it thoroughly into the sauce, 
and serve on boiled or baked potato. 



SOUPS. 



In preparing soups from grains, legumes, and vege- 
tables, the material should be first cooked in the 
ordinary manner, in as small an amount of water as 
practicable, so as the more thoroughly to disintegrate 
or break it up. If the material be legumes or grains, 
the cooking should be slow and prolonged. The next 
step is to make the material homogeneous throughout, 
and to remove any skins or cellulose material it may 
contain. To do tltis, it should be put through a colan- 
der. The colander process being completed, a suffi- 
cient amount of liquid may be added to make the whole 
of the consistency of rather thick cream. 

If the material is now cold, it must be reheated, and 
the salt, if any is to be used, added. The quantity of 
salt will depend somewhat upon the taste of the con- 
sumer ; but in general, one-half teaspoonful to the pint 
of soup will be an ample supply. If any particular 
flavor, as of onion or celery, is desired, it may be 
imparted to the souj) by adding to it a slice of onion or 
a few stalks of celery, allowing them to remain during 
the reheating. By the time the soup is well heated, it 
will be delicately flavored, and the pieces of onion or 
celery may be removed with a fork or a skimmer. It 
is better, in general, to cook the soup all that is needed 
before flavoring, since the delicate flavors are apt to be 
lost by evaporation in the boiling. When reheated, 

[9G] 



SOUPS. 



97 



add to the soup a quantity of cream as seasoning, in the 
proportion of one cup of thin cream for every quart or 
three pints of soup. Nut butter or nut meal may be 
used for seasoning, in the proportion of two table- 
spoonfuls to the quart of soup. Many soups are ex- 
cellent without the addition of cream or other fat. 

To avoid the possibility of any lumps or fragments 
in the soup, pour it again through a colander or a 
Chinese soup strainer into the soup tureen, and serve. 
It is well to take the precaution first to heat the strainer 
and tureen, that the soup be not cooled during the 
process. 

The consistency of the soup when done should be 
about that of single cream, and equal throughout, con- 
taining no lumps or fragments of material. If it is too 
thick, it may be easily diluted with hot milk or water ; 
if too thin, it will require the addition of more mate- 
rial, or may be thickened with a little flour or corn- 
starch rubbed to a cream with a small quantity of milk, 
used in the proportion of one tablespoonful for a quart 
of soup, — heaping, if flour; scant, if corn-starch, It 
should be remembered always to boil the soup five or 
ten minutes after the flour is added, that there may be 
no raw taste. 

RECIPES. 

SOUPS WITHOUT MILK. 

Baked Bean Soup. — Soak a half pint of white beans over- 
night. In the morning turn off the water, and place them in an 
earthen dish with two or two and one-half quarts of boiling 
water; cover and let them simmer in a moderate oven four or 
five hours. Also soak overnight a tablespoonful of pearled tapi- 
oca in sufficient water to cover. "When the beans are soft, rub 
through a colander, after which add the soaked tapioca, and salt 
7 



98 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

if desired ; also as much powdered thyme as can be talcen on the 
point of a penknife, and sufficient water to make the soup of proper 
consistency. Return to the oven, and cook one-half hour longer. 

Bean and Tomato Soup. — Take one pint of boiled or a little 
less of mashed beans, one pint of stewed tomatoes, and rub to- 
gether through a colander. Add salt, two tablespoonfuls of nut 
meal, one-half cup of nicely steamed rice, and sufficient boiling 
water to make a soup of the proper consistency. Reheat and 
serve. 

Black Bean Soup.— Soak a pint of black beans overnight in 
cold water. When ready to cook, put into two and one-half 
quarts of fresh water, which should be boiling, and simmer until 
completely dissolved, adding more boiling water from time to 
time if needed. There should be about two quarts of all when 
done. Rub through a colander, add salt, and reheat. When 
hot, turn through a soup strainer, add two or more teaspoonfuls 
of lemon juice, and serve. 

Bran Stock. — For every quart of stock desired, boil a cup of 
good wlieat bran in three pints of water for two or three hours, 
or until reduced one third. This stock ftiay be made the base of 
a variety of palatable and nutritious soups by flavoring with 
different vegetables and seasoning with salt. An excellent soup 
may be prepared by flavoring the stock with celery, or by the 
addition of a quantity of strained stewed tomato sufficient to 
disguise the taste of the stock. It is also valuable in giving con- 
sistency to soups, in the preparation of some of which it may be 
advantageously used in place of other liquid. 

Combination Soup. — This soup is prepared from material 
already cooked, and requires two cups of cracked wheat, one 
and one-half cups of Lima beans, one-half cup of black beans, 
and one cup of stewed tomato. Rub the material together 
through a colander, adding, if needed, a little hot water to facili- 
tate the sifting. Add boiling water to thin to the proper con- 
sistency, season with salt, and serve. Two tablespoonfuls of nut 
butter make a desirable addition. 

Combination Soup No. 2. — Take three and one-half cups of 
mashed (Scotch) peas, one cup each of cooked rice, oatmeal, 
and hominy, and two cups of stewed tomato. Rub the material 
through a colander, add boiling water to thin to the proper con- 
sistency ; season with salt, reheat, and add, just before serving, 
two cups of cooked macaroni. 



SOUPS. 99 

Split Pea Soup. — For each quart of soup desired, simmer a 
cupful of split peas very slowly in three pints of boiling water 
for six hours, or until thoroughly dissolved. When done, rub 
through a colander, add salt, reheat, and when boiling, stir into 
it two teaspoonfuls of flour rubbed smooth in a little cold water 
Boil until thickened, and serve. If preferred, the soup may be 
flavored with a little celery or onion. 

Swiss Lentil Soup. — Cook a pint of brown lentils in a small 
quantity of boiling water. Add to the lentils when about half 
done, one medium-sized onion cut in halves or quarters. When 
the lentils are tender, remove the onion and rub the lentils 
through a colander. Add sufficient boiling water to make three 
pints in all. Season with salt, reheat to boiling, and thicken the 
whole with four tablespoonfuls of browned flour, rubbed to a 
cream in a little cold water. 

Tomato and Macaroni Soup. — Break a half dozen sticks of 
macaroni into small pieces, and drop into boiling water. Cook 
for an hour, or until perfectly tender. Rub two quarts of stewed 
or canned tomatoes through a colander, to remove all seeds and 
fragments. When the macaroni is done, drain thoroughly, cut 
each piece into tiny rings, and add it to the strained tomatoes. 
Season with salt, and boil for a few minutes. If the tomato is 
quite thin, the soup should be slightly thickened with a little 
flour before adding the macaroni. 

Vegetable Soup. — Prepare a quart of bran stock as previously 
directed. Heat to boiling, and add to it one teaspoonful of grated 
carrot, a slice of onion, and a half cup of tomato. Cook to. 
gether in a double boiler for half an hour. Remove the slice of 
onion, and add salt and a half cup of turnip previously cooked 
and cut in small dice. 

Lentil and Corn Soup. — Prepare a bran stock by boiling for 
every quart of soup required, one cup of good wheat bran in 
three pints of water for two or three hours, or until reduced one 
third. To this stock as a base, add equal parts of cooked lentils 
(after being rubbed through a colander to remove the skins) and 
well-cooked corn pulp to make the soup of the desired consis- 
tency. Season with salt, and serve. 

Vegetable Pea Soup. — Cook one pint of split peas until dis- 
solved. When nearly done, put to coolving one and one-half 
pints of sliced potato and one medium-sized onion, sliced thin. 
When tender, rub all through a colander, add water to make of 



100 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

the consistency of thin cream, and salt to taste. Reheat and 
serve. 

Miss B.'s Fruit Soup. — Take one quart of gluten stock (pre- 
pared by boiling two cups of good wheat bran in three pints of 
water until reduced to one quart ) ; one cup of dried apples, pre- 
viously cut into small bits, and stewed until tender and the juice 
evaporated ; three fourths of a cup of currant juice, three fourths 
of a cup of pineapple juice; one tablespoonful of sugar, and a 
little grated lemon rind for flavoring. 

Fruit Soup No. 2. — One quart gluten stock prepared as 
above, one cup strawberry juice and one-half cup of the berries, 
two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
one tablespoonful each of dried currants and seedless raisins, 
and one-half cup of dried apples prepared as in the preceding 
recipe. 

Fruit Soup No. 3. — Into one cup of warm water put one 
rounding tablespoonful of sago, and cook in a double boiler one- 
half hour. Then add two or three whole cooked prunes, one- 
fourth cup stewed raisins, two tablespoonfuls stewed cranberries, 
one teaspoonful lemon juice, and sugar to suit the taste. Allow 
it to heat until the fruit is hot, and serve. 

Vermicelli or pearled barley may be substituted for sago, and 
dried cherries, with strawberry and lemon juice, used in place 
of the fruits mentioned. 

Fruit Soup No. 4. — Cook together two tablespoonfuls of sago, 
one fourth cup of raisins, and one common-sized tart apple, in 
one and one-half cups of water. When done, add four cooked 
prunes, one fourth of a lemon, and one-fourth cup of sugar. If 
too thick, add hot water. 

Blueberry Soup. — Cook the berries a long time. Pass 
through a colander, and thicken with a little corn-starch. Serve 
with a little sugar and some croutons. 

Mrs. H.'s Sago Fruit Soup.— Soak one-half cup of sago for 
one hour in a cup of cold water. Add a quart of water, and 
cook in a double boiler until transparent. In the meantime 
cook together one cup of sweet California prunes and one-half 
cup of raisins in a small quantity of water. When the sago is 
transparent, add the fruit and juice to it, together with one-half 
cup of currant or some other tart fruit juice, and one-half cup 
of sugar. The quantities given are sufficient for three pints of 
soup. Serve hot with croutons. 



SOUPS. 101 

Instead of the above, rice with dried apricots, or prune and 
currant juice naay be used. Dried apples with dried cherries 
may be used, if preferred. 

Strawberry and Apple Soup. — Cook three fourths of a cup of 
sliced fresh apples in one-half cup water, and add one-half cup 
strawberries. Rub all through a colander, and add three 
fourths of a cup of boiling water. Reheat, and thicken with 
corn-starch. 

Miss B.'s Irish Corn Soup.— Cook one pint of sliced potato 
until tender. Rub through a colander, and add one pint of corn 
pulp obtained by rubbing canned or freshly cooked green corn 
through a colander. Season with salt, add water to make of the 
proper consistency, reheat and serve. 

SOUPS WITH MILK AND CREAM. 

Asparagus Soup. — Wash two bunches of fresh asparagus 
carefully, and cut into small pieces. Put to cook in a quart of 
boiling water, and simmer gently till perfectly tender, when 
there should remain about a pint of the liquor. Turn into a 
colander, and rub all through except the hard portion. To a 
pint of asparagus mixture add salt and one cup of thin cream 
and a pint of milk ; boil up for a few minutes, and serve. 

Bean and Potato Soup. — Soak a half pint of dry white beans 
overnight ; in the morning drain and put to cook in boiling 
water. When tender, rub through a colander. Prepare sliced 
potato sufficient to make one quart, cook in as small a quantity 
of water as possible, rub through a colander, and add to the 
beans. Add milk or water sufficient to make two quarts, and as 
much prepared thyme as can be taken on the point of a pen- 
knife, with salt to season. Boil for a few minutes, add a teacup 
of thin cream, and serve. 

Black Bean Soup. — Soak a pint of black beans in water 
overnight. Cook in boiling water until tender, then rub through 
a colander. Add sufficient boiling water to make about two 
quarts in all. Add salt, and one half a small onion cut in slices 
to flavor. Turn into a double boiler and reheat. When suffi- 
ciently flavored, remove the onion with a skimmer, thicken the 
soup with two teaspoonf uls of browned flour, turn through the 
soup-strainer, and serve. If desired, a half cup of cream may 
be added, and the onion flavor omitted. 



102 EVEEY-DAY DISHES. 

Brown Soup. — Simmer together two pints of sliced pota- 
toes and one third as much of the thin brown shavings (not 
thicker than a silver dime) from the top of a loaf of whole- 
wheat bread, in one quart of water. The crust must not be 
burned or blackened, and should not include any of the soft por- 
tion of the loaf. When the potatoes are tender, mash all through 
a colander. Flavor with a cup of strained, stewed tomatoes, a 
little salt, and return to the fire ; when hot, add a half cup of 
cream, and boiling water to make the soup of proper consistency, 
and serve at once. If care has been taken to prepare the crust 
as directed, this soup will have a brown color and a fine, pun- 
gent flavor exceedingly pleasant to the taste. 

Canned Green Pea Soup. — Rub a can of green peas through a 
colander to remove the skins. Add a pint of milk, and heat to 
boiling. If too thin, thicken with a teaspoonful of flour rubbed 
smooth in a little cold milk. Season with salt and a half cup of 
cream. A small teaspoonful of white sugar may be added, if 
desired. 

Green peas may be used instead of canned, in their season. 
When they have become a little too hard to serve alone, they 
may still be used for soup, if thoroughly cooked. 

Canned Corn Soup. — Open a can of green corn, turn it into 
a granite-ware dish, and thoroughly mash with a potato-masher 
until each kernel is broken, then rub through a colander to re- 
move the skins. Add sufficient rich milk to make the soup of 
the desired consistency ; about one-half pint for each pint can 
of corn will be needed. Season with salt, reheat, and serve. If 
preferred, a larger quantity of milk and some cream may be 
used, and the soup, when reheated, thickened with a little corn- 
starch or flour. If lumpy, it may be turned through a colander 
a second time. 

Carrot Soup. — For a quart of soup, slice one large carrot and 
boil in a small quantity of water for two hours or longer ; then 
rub through a colander, add a quart of rich milk, and salt to 
season. Reheat, and when boiling, thicken with two teaspoon- 
fuls of flour rubbed smooth in a little cold milk. 

Celery Soup. — Chop quite fine enough fresh, crisp celery to 
make a pint, and cook it until tender in a very little boiling 
water. When done, heat three cupfuls of rich milk, or part 
cream, to boiling, add the celery, salt to season, and thicken the 
whole with a tablespoonful of flour rubbed smooth in a little 



SOUPS. 103 

cold milk, a cupful of mashed potato, turn through a colander to 
remove lumps, reheat, add salt and the celery, and serve. 

Celery Soup No. 2, — Cook in a double boiler a cupful of 
cracked wheat in three pints of water for three or four hours. 
Rub the wheat through a colander, add a cup of rich milk, and 
if needed, a little boiling water, and a small head of celery cut 
in finger lengths. Boil all together for fifteen or twenty min- 
utes, until well flavored, remove the celery, add salt, and serve 
with or without the hard-boiled yolk of an egg in each soup 
plate. 

Combination Soup. — One-half cup of cold mashed potato, 
one cup each of cooked pearled wheat, barley, and dried 
peas. Rub all through a colander, add boiling milk to thin 
to the proper consistency, season with salt and a half cup of 
cream. 

Combination Soup No. 2. — Take three cups of cooked oat- 
meal, two of mashed white beans, and one of stewed tomato. 
Rub the ingredients through a colander, add boiling milk to 
thin to the proper consistency, season with salt and a little 
cream. 

Cream Pea Soup. — Soak three fourths of a pint of dried 
Scotch peas overnight in a quart of water. In the morning put 
to cook in boiling water, cover closely, and let them simmer 
gently four or five hours, or until the peas are very tender and 
well disintegrated ; then rub through a colander to remove the 
skins. If the peas are very dry, add a little water or milk occa- 
sionally, to moisten them and facilitate the sifting. Just before 
the peas are done, prepare potatoes enough to make a pint and a 
half after being cut in thin slices. Cook the potatoes until 
tender in a small amount of water, and rub them through a 
colander. Add the potatoes thus prepared to the sifted peas, 
and milk enough to make three and one-half pints in all. Re- 
turn to the fire, and add a small head of celery cut in finger 
lengths ; let the whole simmer together ten or fifteen minutes, 
until flavored. Remove the celery, add salt and a cup of thin 
cream. This should make about two quarts of soup. If pre- 
ferred, the peas may be cooked without soaking. It will, how- 
ever, require a little longer time. 

Cream Barley Soup. — Wash a cup of pearled barley, drain, 
and simmer slowly in two quarts of water for four or five hours, 
adding boiling water from time to time as needed. When the 



104 EVEEY-DAY DISHES. 

barley is tender, strain off the liquor, of which there should be 
about three pints ; add to it a portion of the cooked barley 
grains, salt, and a cup of whipped cream, and serve. If pre- 
ferred, the beaten yolk of an egg may be used instead of cream. 

Green Corn Soup. — Take six well-filled ears of tender green 
corn. Run a sharp knife down the rows and split each grain ; 
then with the back of a knife press out the pulp, leaving the 
hulls on the cob. Scrape from the large to the small end of the 
ear. Break the cobs, if long ; put them in cold water sufficient 
to cover, and boil half an hour. Strain off the water, of which 
there should be at least one pint. Put the corn water on again, 
and when boiling, add the corn pulp, and cook fifteen minutes, 
or until the raw taste is destroyed. Rub through a rather 
coarse colander, add salt and a pint of hot unskimmed milk ; if 
too thin, thicken with a little corn-starch or flour, boil up, and 
serve. A teaspoonful of sugar added to the soup improves the 
flavor for some tastes. 

Green Pea Soup.— Gently simmer two quarts of shelled peas 
in sufficient water to cook, but leaving almost no juice when 
tender. Rub through a colander, moistening, if necessary, with 
a little cold milk. Add to the sifted peas an equal quantity of 
rich milk and a small onion cut in halves. Boil all together five 
or ten minutes until the soup is delicately flavored, then skim 
out the onion; add salt if desired, and serve. If preferred, a half 
cup of thin cream may be added just before serving. Celery 
may be used in place of the onion, or both may be omitted. 

Green Bean Soup. — Prepare a quart of fresh French or string 
beans by pulling off the ends and strings and breaking into 
small pieces. Boil in a small quantity of water. If the beans 
are fresh and young, three pints will be sufficient; if wilted or 
rather old, more will be needed, as they will require longer cook- 
ing. There should be about a teacupful and a half of liquid left 
when the beans are perfectly tender and boiled to pieces. Rub 
through a colander, return to the kettle, and for each cup of the 
bean pulp add salt, a cup and a half of unskimmed milk; boil 
together for a few minutes, thicken with a little flour, and 
serve. The quart of beans should be sufficient to make three 
pints of soup. 

Lentil Soup. — Simmer a pint of lentils in water until tender. 
If desired to have the soup less dark in color and less strong 
in flavor, the lentils may be first parboiled for a half hour, and 



SOUPS. 105 

then drained and put into fresh boiling water. Much valuable 
nutriment is thus lost, however. When perfectly tender, mash 
through a colander to remove all skins; add salt and a cup of 
thin cream, and if too thick, sufficient boiling milk or water to 
thin to the proper consistency; heat again to boiling, and serve. 
If preferred, an additional quantity of liquid may be added and 
the soup slightly thickened with browned flour. 

Lentil and Parsnip Soup.— Cook together until tender one 
pint of lentils and one half a small parsnip, sliced, in a small 
quantity of boiling water. When done, rub through a colander, 
and add boiling water to make a soup of the proper consistency. 
Season with salt and a little cream. 

Lima Bean Soup. — Simmer a pint of Lima beans gently in 
just sufficient water to cook and not burn, until they have fallen 
to pieces. Add more boiling water as needed. When done, rub 
the beans through a colander. Add rich milk or water to make 
of a proper consistency, and salt to season ; reheat and serve. 
White beans may be used in place of Lima beans, but they 
require more prolonged cooking. A heaping tablespoonful of 
pearled tapioca or sago previously soaked in cold water may be 
added to the soup when it is reheated, if liked, and the whole 
cooked until the sago is transparent. 

Plain Rice Soup. — Wash and pick over six tablespoonfuls of 
rice, put it in an earthen dish with a quart of water, and place 
in a moderate oven. When the water is all absorbed, add a quart 
of rich milk, and salt if desired; turn into a granite kettle and 
boil ten minutes, or till the rice is done. Add a half cup of 
sweet cream, and serve. A slice of onion or a stalk of celery may 
be boiled with the soup after putting into the kettle, and removed 
before serving, if desired only to flavor. 

Potato and Rice Soup. — Cook a quart of sliced potatoes in as 
little water as possible. When done, rub through a colander. 
Add salt, a quart of rich milk, and reheat. If desired, season 
with a slice of onion, a stalk of celery, or a little parsley. Just 
before serving, add a half cup of cream and a cup and a half of 
well-cooked rice with unbroken grains. Stir gently, and serve at 
once. 

Potato Soup. — For each quart of soup required, cook a pint 
of sliced potatoes in sufficient water to cover them. When 
tender, rub through a colander. Return to the fire, and add 
enough rich milk, or part cream, to make a quart in all, and a 



106 EVEEY-DAY DISHES. 

little salt. Let the soup come to a boil, and add a teaspoonful of 
flour or corn-starch rubbed to a paste with a little water; boil 
a few minutes, and serve. A cup and a half of cold mashed 
potato or a pint of sliced baked potato may be used instead of 
fresh material; in which case add the milk and heat before rub- 
bing through the colander. A slice of onion or a stalk of celery 
may be simmered in the soup for a few minutes to flavor it, and 
then removed. A good mixed potato soup is made by using one- 
third sweet and two-thirds Irish potatoes, in the same manner as 
above. 

Pea and Tomato Soup. — Soak one pint of Scotch peas over- 
night. When ready to cook, put into a quart of boiling water 
and simmer slowly until quite dry and well disintegrated. Rub 
through a colander to remove the skins. Add a pint of hot 
water, one cup of mashed potato, two cups of strained stewed 
tomato, and one cup of twelve-hour cream. Turn into a double 
boiler and cook together for a half hour or longer; turn a second 
time through a colander or soup strainer, and serve. The propor- 
tions given are quite sufficient for two quarts of soup. There 
may need to be some variation in the quantity of tomato to 
be used, depending upon its thickness. If very thin, a larger 
quantity and less water will be needed. The soup should be a 
rich reddish brown in color when done. The peas may be 
cooked without being first soaked, if preferred. 

Swiss Potato Soup. — Pare and cut up into small pieces, 
enough white turnips to fill a pint cup, and cook in a small 
quantity of water. When tender, add three pints of sliced 
potatoes, and let them boil together until of the consistency of 
mush. Add hot water, if it has boiled away so that there is not 
sufficient to cook the potatoes. When done, drain, rub through 
a colander, add a pint and a half of milk and a cup of thin cream, 
salt if desired, and if too thick, a little more milk or a sufficient 
quantity of hot water to make it of the proper consistency. This 
should be sufficient for two and a half quarts of soup. 

Tomato Cream Soup. — Heat two quarts of strained, stewed 
tomatoes to boiling; add four tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed 
smooth in a little cold water. Let the tomatoes boil until thick- 
ened, stirring constantly, that no lumps form; add salt to season. 
Have ready two cups of hot rich milk or thin cream. Add the 
cream or milk hot, and let all boil together for a minute or two, 
then serva 



SOUPS. 



107 



Tomato and Okra Soup.— Take one quart of okra thinly sliced, 
and two quarts of sliced tomatoes. Simmer gently from one to 
two hours. Rub through a colander, heat again to boiling, 
season with salt and cream, if desired, and serve. 

Canned okra and tomatoes need only to be rubbed through a 
colander, scalded and seasoned, to make a most excellent soup. 
If preferred, one or two potatoes may be sliced and cooked, 
rubbed through a colander, and added. 

Tomato Soup with Vermicelli.— Cook a cupful of broken ver- 
micelli in a pint of boiling water for ten minutes. Turn into a 
colander to drain. Have boiling two quarts of strained, stewed 
tomatoes, to which add the vermicelli. If preferred, the tomato 
maybe thickened slightly with a little corn-starch rubbed smooth 
in cold water before adding the vermicelli ; or the vermicelli 
may be cooked in the tomato. Salt to taste, and just before 
serving turn in a cup of hot thin cream. Let all boil up for a 
minute, then serve at once. 

Vegetable Oyster Soup.— Scrape all the outer skin and small 
rootlets from vegetable oysters, and lay them in a pan of cold 
water to prevent discoloration. The scraping can be done much 
easier if the roots are allowed first to stand in cold water for an 
hour or so. Slice rather thin, enough to make one quart, and put 
to cook in a quart of water. Let them boil slowly until very 
tender. Add a pint of milk, a cup of thin cream, salt, and when 
boiling, a tablespoonful or two of flour, rubbed to a cream with 
a little milk. Let the soup boil a few minutes until thickened, 
and serve. 

Vegetable Soup.— Soak a cupful of white beans overnight in 
cold water. When ready to cook, put into fresh boiling water 
and simmer until tender. When nearly done, add three large 
potatoes sliced, two or three slices of white turnip, and one large 
parsnip cut in slices. When done, rub through a colander, add 
milk or water to make of the proper consistency, season with salt 
and cream, reheat and serve. This quantity of material is suffi- 
cient for two quarts of soup. 



EGGS. 

How to Choose Eggs. — The quality of eggs 
varies considerably, according to the food upon which 
the fowls are fed. Certain foods communicate distinct 
flavors, and it is quite probable that eggs may be ren- 
dered unwholesome through the use of filthy or im- 
proper food ; hence it is always best, when practicable, 
to ascertain respecting the diet and care of the fowls 
before purchasing eggs. 

On no account select eggs about the freshness of 
which there is any reason for doubt. The use of stale 
eggs may result in serious disturbance of the digestive 
organs. 

There are several ways of determining with tolerable 
accuracy respecting the freshness of an egg. A com- 
mon test is to place it between the eye and a strong 
light. If fresh, the white will appear translucent, and 
the outline of the yolk can be distinctly traced. By 
keeping, eggs become cloudy, and when decidedly 
stale, a distinct, dark, cloud-like appearance may be 
discerned opposite some portion of the shell. Another 
test is to shake the egg gently at the ear ; if a gurgle 
or thud is heard, the egg is bad. Again, eggs may be 
tested by dropping into a vessel containing a solution of 
salt and water, in the proportion of a tablespoonful to 
a quart. Newly laid eggs will sink ; if more than six 
days old, they will float in the liquid ; if bad, they will 
[1081 



EGGS. 109 

be so light as to ride on the surface of the brine. The 
shell of a freshly laid egg is almost full ; but owing to 
the porous character of the shell, with age and exposure 
to au' a portion of the liquid substance of which the egg 
is composed evaporates, and air accumulates in its 
place at one of the extremities of the shell. Hence an 
egg loses in density from day to day, and the longer 
it has been kept, the lighter it becomes, and the higher 
it will rise in the liquid. 

An egg that will float on the surface of the liquid is 
of too questionable a character to be used without 
breaking, and is apt to be unfit for use at all. 

Eggs should be kept in a cool, not cold, place and 
handled carefully, as rough treatment may cause the 
mingling of the yolk and white by rupturing the mem- 
brane which separates them ; then the egg will spoil 
quickly. 

The time required for the digestion of a perfectly 
cooked egg varies from three to four hours. 

It is generally conceded that eggs lightly cooked are 
most readily digested. What is generally termed a 
hard-boiled egg is not easily acted upon by the digest- 
ive juices, and any other manner of cooking by which 
the albumen becomes hardened and solid, offers great 
resistance to digestion. 

To Beat Eggs, — If the white and yolk are used 
separately, break the shells gently about the middle, 
opening slowly, so as to let the white fall into the dish, 
while retaining the yolk in one half of the shell. If 
part of the white remains, turn the yolk from the one 
half to the other till the white has fallen. Beat the 
yolks until they change from their natural orange color 



110 EVEKY-DAY DISHES. 

to a much lighter yellow. The whites should be beaten 
until jBi'm and dry enough not to fall from the bowl 
if turned upside down. The yolk should always be 
beaten first, since if the white is left to stand after be- 
ing beaten, a portion of the air which its viscous nature 
allows it to catch up escapes, and no amount of beating 
will render it so firm a second time. Eggs which need 
to be washed before breaking should always be wiped 
perfectly dry, that no water may become mingled 
with the egg, as the water may dilute the albumen suf- 
ficiently to prevent the white from becoming firm and 
stiff when beaten. 

RECIPES. 

Eggs in Shell. — The usual method of preparing eggs for serv- 
ing in this way is to put them into boiling water, and boil or sim- 
mer until sufficiently cooked. Albumen, of which the white of 
the egg is composed, is most easily digested when simply coagu- 
lated. The yolk, if cooked at all, is most easily digested when 
dry and mealy. Albumen coagulates at 160°, and when the boil- 
ing point is reached, it becomes hardened, tough, and leathery, 
and very difficult of digestion. If the egg were all albumen, it 
might be easily and properly cooked by dropping into boiling 
water, allowing it to remain for a few seconds, and removing it, 
since the shell would prevent its becoming sufficiently heated 
in so short a time as to become hardened ; but the time neces- 
sary to properly cook the white of the egg would be insuffi- 
cient for the heat to penetrate to and cook the yolk ; and if it is 
desirable to cook the yolk hard, the cooking process should be 
carried on at a temperature below the boiling point, subjecting 
the egg to a less degree of heat, but for a longer time. The most 
accurate method is to put the eggs into water of a temperature 
of 160° F., allowing them to remain for twenty minutes, and 
not permitting the temperature of the water to go above 170°. 
Cooked in this way, the white will be of a soft, jelly-like consist- 
ency throughout, while the yolks will be hard. If it is desired 
to have the yolks dry and mealy, the temperature of the water 
must be lower, and the time of cooking lengthened. The most 



EGGS. Ill 

perfect results may be secured with water at a temperature of 
150° F., and seven hours' cooking. The temperature of the water 
can be easily tested by keeping an ordinary thermometer in it, 
and if one possesses a kerosene or gas stove, the heat can be 
easily regulated to maintain the required temperature. 

Another method, although less sure, is to pour boiling water 
into a saucepan, draw it to one side of the range where it will 
keep hot but not boil, put in the eggs, cover, and let stand for 
twenty minutes. If by either method it is desired to have the 
yolk soft-cooked, lessen the time to ten minutes or so, according 
to the hardness desired. Eggs are best served as soon as done, 
as the white becomes more solid by being kept in a hot shell. 

It should be remarked that the time necessary to cook eggs 
in the shell will vary somewhat with the firmness of the shell, 
the size of the eggs, and the number cooked together. 

Eggs in Sunshine. — Take an earthenware dish which will 
stand heat and also do to use in serving the eggs. Oil it and 
break therein as many eggs as desired ; sprinkle lightly with 
salt, and put into the oven for two or more minutes till the eggs 
are set. Have ready some hot tomato sauce prepared as for 
tomato toast ; pour the sauce over them, and serve. 

Eggs Poached in Tomatoes. — Take a pint of stewed tomatoes 
cooked until they are homogeneous or which have been rubbed 
through a colander ; season with salt if desired, and heat. When 
just beginning to boil, slip in gently half a dozen eggs, the shells 
of which have been so carefull}' broken that the yolks are intact. 
Keep the tomato just below the boiling point until the eggs are 
cooked. Lift the whites carefully with a fork as they cook, until 
they are firm, then prick the yolks and let the yellow mix with 
the tomato and the whites. The whole should be quite soft 
when done, but showing the red of the tomatoes and the white 
and yellow of the eggs quite distinctly. Serve on toast. If the 
flavor is agreeable, a little onion minced very fine may be cooked 
with the tomatoes. 

Eggs in Cream. — Put a half cupful or more of cream into a 
shallow earthen dish, and place the dish in a kettle or pan of 
boiling water. When the cream is hot, break in as many eggs 
as the bottom of the dish will hold, and cook until well set, bast- 
ing them occasionally over the top with the hot cream. Or, put 
a spoonful or two of cream into individual egg or vegetable 
dishes, break a fresh egg into each, and cook in the oven or in a 



112 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

Steamer over a kettle of boiling water until the white of the egg 
is well set. 

Poached or Dropped Eg'gs. — Break each egg into a saucer by 
itself. Have a shallow pan half filled with scalding, not boiling, 
water on the stove. If desired, a little salt and a tablespoonful 
of lemon juice may be added. Slip the eggs gently from the 
saucer upon the top of the water, holding the edge of the saucer 
under water to prevent the eggs from scattering ; dip the water 
over them with a spoon and let them stand five minutes, or until 
the yolk is covered with a film, and the white is firm but not 
hardened ; keep the water just below the boiling point. Take 
out the eggs one by one on a skimmer, and serve in egg saucers 
or on slices of nicely browned toast moistened with a little sweet 
cream, or on granose biscuit (see page 143) which have been 
rendered crisp by five minutes' heating in the oven, as preferred. 
Poached eggs are excellent served with tomato sauce prepared 
as directed on page 33. If one is especially particular to keep 
the shape of the eggs, an egg-poacher should be used, or a set of 
muffin-rings may be laid in the bottom of the pan, and the eggs 
turned into the rings. 

Poached Egg's with Cream Sauce, — Poach eggs as in the 
foregoing recipe, and pour over them a sauce made according to 
directions on page 122. 

Quickly Prepared Eggs. — A good way to cook quickly a large 
number of eggs is to use a large-bottomed earthen dish, which 
will stand the heat and in which eggs may be served. Oil it 
well ; break the requisite number of eggs separately, and turn 
each carefully into the dish ; sprinkle lightly with salt ; set the 
dish in the oven or in a steamer over a kettle of boiling water 
for a few minutes until the eggs are set, then serve. 

Scrambled Eggs. — Beat four eggs lightly, add a little salt if 
desired, and half a cup of milk or cream. Have ready a hot, 
oiled saucepan ; turn the eggs in and cook quickly, stirring con- 
stantly until firm but soft. 

Steamed Eggs, — Break eggs into egg or vegetable dishes or 
patt3'-pans, salt very lightly, and set in a steamer over a kettle 
of boiling water until the whites are set, and a film has formed 
over the yolk. Serve the same as poached eggs, with or with- 
out toast. 

Scrambled Egg with Tomato, — Heat a half pint of strained 
stewed tomatoes to boiling, salt to taste, and stir in six slightly 



EGGS. . 113 

beaten eggs. Stir constantly until well scrambled. A table- 
spoonful of minced celery may be added. 

Plain Omelet. — Beat the yolks of three eggs to a cream and 
beat the whites to a stiff froth. Add to the yolks three table- 
spoonfuls of milk or cream, one tablespoonful of finely grated 
bread crumbs, and season slightly with salt ; lastly, fold, not 
stir, the whites lightly in. An omelet-pan is the best utensil 
for cooking; but if that is not to be had, an earthenware pud- 
ding-dish which will stand the heat is good ; an iron spider will 
do, but a larger omelet would need to be prepared. A tin sauce- 
pan is apt to cook the omelet so rapidly as to burn it in spots. 
Whatever the utensil used, it should be hot, the fire clear and 
steady, and all in readiness by the time the eggs are beaten. 

Oil the dish well and gently pour in the omelet mixture ; 
cover, and place the pan on the range where the heat will be 
continuous. Do not stir, but carefully, as the egg sets, lift the 
omelet occasionally by slipping a broad-bladed knife under it, 
or with a fork by dipping in here and there. It should cook 
quickly, but not so quickly as to burn. From three to five 
minutes will generally be ample time. When the middle of the 
omelet is set, it may be put into a hot oven to dry the top. As 
soon as the center is dry, it should be removed immediately, as 
it will be hard and indigestible if overdone. To dish, loosen 
from the pan by running a knife under it, lay a hot platter, 
bottom upward, over the pan, and invert the latter so as to shake 
out the omelet gently, browned side uppermost ; or if preferred, 
double one part over the other before dishing. Serve at once, or 
it will fall. 

An omelet of three eggs is sufficient for two or three persons ; 
if more is desired, a second omelet of three eggs may be made. 
Larger ones are not so light, nor so easily prepared. The dish 
used should be reserved for that purpose alone, and should be 
kept as smooth and dry as possible. It is better to keep it clean 
by wiping with a coarse towel than by washing, if the omelet 
comes from the pan perfectly whole, leaving no fragments 
behind. 



DESSERTS. 



RECIPES. 

FRUIT DESSERTS. 

Apple Dessert. — Pare some large tart apples, remove the 
cores, put into the cavities a little quince jelly, lemon-flavored 
sugar, or grated pineapple and sugar, according to the flavor 
desired. Have as many squares of bread with the crust taken 
off as there are apples, and place a filled apple on each piece of 
bread, on earthen pie plates ; moisten well with a little quince 
jelly dissolved in water, or lemon juice or pineapple juice, accord- 
ing to the filling used. Cover closely, and bake in a rather 
quick oven till the apples are tender. Serve with whipped 
cream and sugar. 

Apple Rose Cream. — Wash, core, slice, and cook without 
paring, a dozen fresh snow apples until very dry. When done, 
rub through a colander to remove the skins, add sugar to 
sweeten, and the whites of two eggs ; beat vigorously with an 
egg-beater until stiff, add a teaspoonful of rose-water for flavor- 
ing, and serve at once, or keep on ice. It is especially important 
that the apples be very dry, otherwise the cream will not be 
light. If after rubbing through the colander, there is still much 
juice, they should be cooked again until it has evaporated ; or 
they may be turned into a jelly-bag and drained. Other varieties 
of apples may be used, and flavored with pineapple or vanilla. 
Made as directed, of snow apples or others with white flesh and 
red skins, the cream should be of a delicate pink color, making 
a very dainty as well as a delicious dessert. 

Baked Sweet Apple Dessert.— Wash and remove the cores 
from a dozen medium-sized sweet apples, and one third as many 
sour ones, and bake until well done. Mash through a colander 
to make smooth and remove the skins. Put into a granite-ware 
dish, smooth the top with a knife, return to the oven, and bake 
very slowly until dry enough to keep its shape when cut. Add, 
if desired, a meringue made by beating the white of one egg 
[114] 



DESSERTS. 115 

with a tablespoonful of sugar. Cut in squares, and serve in 
individual dishes. The meringue may be flavored with lemon 
or dotted with bits of colored sugar. 

Bananas in Sirup. — Heat in a porcelain kettle a pint of cur- 
rant and red-raspberry juice, equal parts, sweetened to taste. 
When boiling, drop into it a dozen peeled bananas, and simmer 
very gently for twenty minutes. Remove the bananas, boil the 
juice until thickened to the consistency of sirup, and pour over 
the fruit. Serve cold. 

Baked Bananas. — Bake fresh, firm, yellow bananas with the 
skins on fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. Serve hot. 

Grape Apples. — Sweeten a pint of -fresh grape juice with half 
a pint of sugar, and simmer gently until reduced one third. 
Pare and core, without dividing, six or eight nice tart apples, 
and stew very slowly in the grape juice until tender but not 
broken. Remove the apples and boil the juice (if any remains) 
until thickened to the consistency of sirup. Serve cold in indi- 
vidual dishes with a little of the grape sirup over each apple, or 
with a dressing of whipped cream. Canned grape pulp or juice 
may be utilized for this purpose. If preferred, the grape juice 
may be diluted with one-third water. Sweet apples may be used 
instead of tart ones, and the sugar omitted. 

Prune Dessert. — Prepare some prune marmalade as directed 
on page 62. Put in a square granite-ware dish, placed inside 
another dish containing hot water, and cook in a slow oven until 
the marmalade is dry enough to retain its shape when cut with 
a knife. If desired, add a meringue as for baked sweet-apple 
dessert, dotting the top with pink sugar. Serve in squares in 
individual dishes. 

DESSERTS OF FRUIT WITH GRAINS, BREAD, ETC. 

Barley Fig Pudding. — One pint of well-steamed pearled bar- 
ley, two cups of finely chopped best figs, one-half cup of sugar, 
one-half cup of thin sweet cream, and one and one-half cups of 
fresh milk. Mix all thoroughly, turn into an earthen pudding- 
dish ; place it in the oven in a pan half full of hot water, and 
bake slowly till the milk is nearly absorbed. The pudding should 
be stirred once or twice during the baking, so that the figs will 
be distributed evenly, instead of rising to the top. 

Cocoanut and Corn-starch Blancmange. — Simmer two table- 
spoonfuls of desiccated cocoanut in a pint of milk for twenty 



116 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

minutes, and strain through a fine sieve. If necessary, add more 
cold milk to make the full pint. Add a tablespoonful of sugar, 
heat to boiling, and stir in gradually two tablespoonf uls of corn- 
starch rubbed smooth in a very little cold milk. Cook five min- 
utes, turn into cups, and serve cold with fruit sauce or cream. 

Corn-starch mth Raisins. — Measure out one pint of rich milk. 
Rub two tablespoonfuls of corn-starch perfectly smooth with a 
little of the milk, and heat the remainder to boiling, adding to it 
a tablespoonful of sugar. Add the braided corn-starch, and let 
it cook until it thickens, stirring constantly. Then add a half 
cup of raisins which have been.previously steamed. This may 
be served hot with sugar and cream, or turned into cups and 
molded and served cold with lemon, orange, or other fruit sauce 
for dressing. 

Coru-starch Fruit Mold. — Heat a quart of strawberry, rasp- 
berry, or currant juice, sweetened to taste, to boiling. If the 
pure juice of berries is used, it may be diluted with one cup of 
water to each pint and a half of juice. Stir into it four table- 
spoonfuls of corn-starch well braided with a little of the juice 
reserved for this purpose. Boil until the starch is well 
cooked, stirring constantly. Pour into molds previously wet 
with cold water, and cool. Serve with cream and sugar. A 
circle of fresh berries around the mold when served adds to its 
appearance. 

Cracked Wheat Pudding. — A very simple pudding may be 
made with two cups of cold, well-cooked cracked wheat, two and 
a fourth cups of milk, and one-half cup of sugar. Let the wheat 
soak in the milk till thoroughly mixed and free from lumps ; 
then add the sugar and a little grated lemon peel, and bake about 
three fourths of an hour in a moderate oven. It should be of a 
creamy consistencj' when cold, but will appear quite thin when 
taken from the oven. By flavoring the milk with cocoanut, a 
different pudding may be produced. Rolled or pearled wheat 
may be used for this pudding. A cupful of raisins may be added, 
if desired. 

Farina Blancmange. — Heat a quart of milk, reserving one- 
half cup, to boiling. Then add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and 
four heaping tablespoonfuls of farina, previously' moistened with 
the reserved half cup of milk. Let all boil rapidly for a tVw 
minutes till the farina has well set, then place in a double boiler, 
or a dish set in a pan of boiling water, to cook an hour longer. 



DESSERTS. 117 

Mold in cups previously wet with cold water. Serve with sugar 
and cream flavored with vanilla or a little grated lemon rind, 
mock cream, or cocoanut sauce. 

Farina Fruit Mold. — Put a quart of well-sweetened red-rasp- 
berry juice into the inner cup of a double boiler. Heat to boiling, 
and stir in four heaping tablespoonfuls of farina first moistened 
with a little of the juice. Boil up until thickened, then set into 
the outer boiler, the water in which should be boiling, and cook 
for one hour. Pour into molds previously wet in cold water, and 
cool. Serve with whipped cream or mock cream. Currant, 
strawberry, cherry, or blackberry juice may be used instead of 
raspberry. If water be added to dilute the juice, a little more 
farina will be needed. 

Plain Fniit Pudding-, or Brown Betty.— Chop together one 
part seeded raisins and two parts good tart apples. Fill a pud- 
ding-dish with alternate layers of the fruit and bread crumbs, 
finishing with the bread crumbs on top. Unless the apples are 
very juicy, moisten the whole with a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice in a cup of cold water, for a pudding filling a three-pint 
dish. Cover the dish, and place it in a moderate oven in a pan 
of hot water, and bake nearly an hour ; then remove from the 
pan, uncover, and brown nicely. Serve warm with cream and 
sugar, or with an orange or lemon sauce. Stoned cherries may 
be used in place of the apples and raisins. In that case, each 
layer of fruit should be sprinkled lightly with sugar, and the 
water omitted. 

Rice Cream Pudding. — Take one cup of good well-washed 
rice, a scant cup of sugar, and eight cups of new milk, with a 
little grated lemon rind for flavoring. Put all into an earthen 
pudding-dish, and place on the top of the range. Heat very 
slowly until the milk is boiling, stirring frequently, so that the 
rice shall not adhere to the bottom of the dish. Then put into 
a moderately hot oven, and bake without stirring, till the rice is 
perfectly tender, which can be ascertained by dipping a spoon 
in one side and taking out a few grains. It should be, when 
cold, of a rich, creamy consistency, with each grain of rice 
whole. Serve cold. It is best if made the day before it is 
needed. If preferred, the milk may be first flavored with 
cocoanut, according to the directions given on page 115. 

Rice Pudding with Raisins.— Wash thoroughly one-half cup 
of rice, and soak for two hours in warm water. Drain off the 



118 EVERY-DAY DISHES. ^ 

water, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one-half cup of raisins, 
and four cups of milk. Put in an earthen pudding-dish and 
cook for two hours in a moderate oven, stirring once or twice be- 
fore the rice begins to swell; then add a cup of hot milk, and 
cook for an hour longer. 

Stewed Fruit Pudding. — Take a deep square or oblong 
granite-ware or earthen dish ; cut strips of stale bread uni- 
formly an inch in width and three fourths of an inch in thick- 
ness, and place them in the mold with spaces between them 
equal to their width. Or, fit the strips around the bottom of a 
round earthen pudding-dish, like spokes in a wheel, with an 
open space between each and in the center. Have ready some 
hot stewed or canned fruit, sweetened to taste ; whortleberries 
are best, but apricots, cherries, currants, strawberries, and goose- 
berries may all be used. Separate the juice from the berries by 
turning them into a colander. Fill the interstices between the 
bread with hot fruit, using just as little juice as possible. Cover 
with another layer, this time placing the strips of bread over the 
fruit in the first layer, and leaving the spaces for fruit over the 
bread in the first layer. Fill the dish with these layers of fruit 
and bread, and when full, pour over all the hot fruit juice. Put 
a plate with a weight on it on the top to press it firmly. Dip oif 
any juice that may be pressed out, and set the pudding in the 
refrigerator to cool and press. When cold, it will turn out whole, 
and can be cut in slices and served with whipped cream or 
cocoanut sauce. 

Apple Tapioca. — Soak a cupful of pearled tapioca overnight. 
In the morning simmer in a quart of boiling water until trans- 
parent and thickened. Arrange in the bottom of a pudding- 
dish four or five good-sized tart apples, which have been pared, 
cored, and the cavities filled with sugar. Squeeze the juice of 
a lemon and grate a very little of the rind over the apples. Pour 
the tapioca over the fruit. Set the dish inside a pan filled with 
hot water, cover, and bake one hour, or until the apples^are 
done. Serve with sugar and cream. It is best nearly cold. 
Fresh peaches, pared and stewed, may be used in place of 
apples, if preferred. 

Pineapple Tapioca. — Soak one cup of tapioca overnight in 
one and one-half cups of water. Add two and one-half cups of 
water, and cook in a double boiler until transparent, then add 
one cup of sugar and one juicy pineapple minced fine with a 
sharp knife. Mold, and serve cold with or without cream. 



DESSERTS. 119 

Banana Dessert. — Soak a cup of tapioca overnight. In the 
morning, cook in a double boiler in a quart of water until trans- 
parent. When done, add a cup of sugar and three or four sliced 
bananas. Serve cold with cream. 

Raspberry Manioca Mold. — Heat a pint of water, and when 
boiling, sprinkle into it four scant tablespoonfuls of manioca 
and cook for ten minutes, or until transparent, stirring con- 
tinually. When transparent and thickened, remove from the 
fire, and add a tablespoonful of lemon juice and one cup of sugar. 
Place a layer of the cooked manioca in the bottom of a pudding- 
dish, add a layer of freshly picked red raspberries, then another 
of the manioca, filling the dish in alternate layers, with one of 
manioca for the top. Set away in some cool place until well 
molded. Serve in slices with cream flavored with rose. Other 
fresh berries may be used instead of raspberries. 

Bread Custard Pudding'. — Take one cup of finely powdered 
bread crumbs, one-half cup of sugar, one quart of milk, and the 
beaten yolks of three eggs and the whites of two. Mix the bread 
and milk, and when well softened, add the yolks, sugar, and 
lastly the well-beaten whites; mix all together thoroughly, sea- 
son with a little grated lemon rind; place the pudding-dish in 
the oven in a pan of hot water, and bake till firm and lightly 
brown. Take from the oven, cover the top with a layer of apple 
marmalade made without sugar, or with some tart fruit jelly; 
add to this a meringue of the white of the remaining egg and a 
tablespoonful of sugar, beaten to a stiff froth, and place in the 
oven a moment to brown lightly. 

Fresh fruit, strawberries, raspberries, chopped peaches, cur- 
rants, cherries, or shredded oranges are equally as good as the 
marmalade or jelly for the top dressing, and may be used to vary 
this pudding in a number of difl'erent waj'S. Canned fruits, if 
well drained from juice, especially apricots and peaches, are ex- 
cellent for this purpose. A cocoanut custard pudding may be 
made of the above by flavoring the milk before using, with two 
tablespoonfuls of desiccated cocoanut. Another variety still may 
be made by adding to the first recipe half a cup of Zante cur- 
rants and the same of seedless raisins, or half a cup of finely 
shredded, tender citron. 

Boiled Custard. — Beat thoroughly together one pint of milk, 
two eggs, and a tablespoonful or two of sugar, until thoroughly 
mingled. Turn the mixture into a double boiler, and cook until 
the custard is set. 



120 EVEKY-DAY DISHES. 

Cop Custard. — Into four cups of milk stir the yolks of three 
eggs and one whole one, well beaten. Add four tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, and strain the mixture into cups; place these in a drip- 
ping-pan full of hot water, grate a little lemon rind over the top 
of each, and bake in a moderate oven. If preferred, the milk 
may be first flavored with cocoanut. It is also better to have the 
milk nearly hot when stirring in the egg. Half a cupful of milk 
should be reserved to add to the egg before turning into the 
heated portion. 

Farina Custard. — Flavor a quart of milk with cocoanut. 
Cook two tablespoonfuls of farina in the flavored milk for 
twenty minutes, in a double boiler ; then set aside to cool. 
When nearly cold, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar and the 
well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Beat all together very thor- 
oughly, and lastly stir in the whites of the eggs, previously 
beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in one dish set inside another 
filled with hot water, just long enough to set the custard. 
Serve cold. 

Tapioca Custard.— Soak a cupful of pearled tapioca overnight 
in sufficient water to cover. When ready to prepare the cus- 
tard, drain off the water, if any remains, and add one quart of 
milk to the tapioca ; place in a double boiler and cook until 
transparent; then add the well-beaten yolks of three eggs or the 
yolks of two and one whole one, mixed with three fourths of a 
cup of sugar. Let it cook a few minutes, just long enough for 
the custard to thicken and no more, or it will whey and be 
spoiled ; flavor with a little vanilla, and turn into a glass dish. 
Cover the top with the whites beaten stiffly with a tablespoonful 
of sugar, and dot with bits of jelly or colored sugar prepared by 
mixing sugar with cranberry or raspberry juice, and allowing it 
to dry. For variety, the custard may be flavored with grated 
lemon rind and a tablespoonful of lemon juice whipped up with 
the whites of the eggs, or the meringue may be flavored by beat- 
ing a tablespoonful of quince jelly with the whites of the eggs. 

Steamed Fig Pudding. — Moisten two cupfuls of finely grated 
graham-bread crumbs with half a cup of thin sweet cream. 
Mix into it a heaping cupful of finely chopped fresh figs and a 
quarter of a cup of sugar. Add lastly a cup and one fourth 
of sweet milk. Turn all into a pudding-dish, and steam about 
two and one-half hours. Serve as soon as done, with a little 
cream for dressing, or with orange or lemon sauce. 



DESSERTS. 121 

SAUCES FOR DESSERTS AND PUDDINGS. 

Almond Sauce. — Heat a pint of rich milk in the inner cup of 
a double boiler, placed directly upon the stove. When the milk 
is boiling, stir into it a heaping tablespoonful of flour which has 
been rubbed to a cream in a little cold milk. Boil rapidly until 
thickened, stirring constantly; then add three tablespoonfuls of 
almondine ; place in the outer boiler, and cook for five or ten 
minutes longer. 

Caramel Sauce. — Stir a cup of sugar in a saucepan over the 
fire until melted and lightly browned. Add one cup of boiling 
water, and simmer ten minutes. 

Cocoanut Sauce. — Flavor a pint of new milk with cocoanut. 
Skim out the cocoanut, and add enough fresh milk to make one 
pint. Heat the milk to boiling, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
thicken with two even spoonfuls of corn-starch, and proceed in 
the same manner as for mock cream. 

Cranberry Pudding- Sauce. — To a quart of boiling water add 
two cups of sugar, and when well dissolved, one quart of care- 
fully sorted cranberries. Mash the berries as much as possible 
with a silver spoon, and boil just seven minutes. Turn through 
a colander to remove skins, cool and serve. 

Fruit Sauce. — Heat a pint of red -raspberry, currant, grape, 
strawberry, apricot, or any other fruit juice to scalding, and stir 
in a tablespoonful of corn-starch previously rubbed to a cream 
with a little cold water. Cook till it thickens ; then add sugar 
according to the acidity of the fruit. Strain and cool before 
using. If fruit juice is not available, two or three tablespoonfuls 
of pure fruit jelly may be dissolved in a pint of hot water and 
used instead of the juice. A mixture of red- and black-raspberry 
juice, or currant and raspberry, will be found acceptable for 
variety. 

Fruit Sauce No. 2. — Mash a quart of fresh berries, add one 
cup of sugar, beat very thoroughly together, and set away until 
needed. Just before wanted for serving, turn into a granite 
fruit-kettle and heat nearly to boiling, stirring constantly to 
avoid burning. Serve hot with hot or cold puddings or molded 
desserts. 

Lemon Pudding- Sauce. — Heat to boiling, in a double boiler, 
a pint of water in which are two slices of lemon, and stir into it 
a dessert-spoonful of corn-starch ; cook four or five minutes, or 
nntil it thickens. Squeeze the juice from one large lemon, and 



122 EVEKY-DAY DISHES. 

mix it with two thirds of a cup of sugar. Add this to the corn- 
starch mixture, and allow the wliole to boil up once, stirring 
constantly ; then take from the fire. Leave in the double boiler, 
surrounded bj^ the hot water, for ten minutes. Cool to blood 
heat before serving. 

Mock Cream. — Heat a pint of fresh, unskimmed milk in a 
double boiler. When the milk is boiling, stir in two tablespoon- 
f uls of sugar, and two even tablespoonfuls of corn-starch which 
has first been rubbed smooth in a little cold milk. Bring just to 
a boil, stirring constantly ; then pour the hot mixture, a little at 
a time, beating thoroughly all the while, over the well-beaten 
white of one egg. Put again into the double boiler, return to 
the fire, and stir till it thickens to the consistency of cream. 

Orange Sauce. — Squeeze a cupful of juice from well-flavored, 
sour oranges. Heat a pint of water, and when boiling, thicken 
with a tablespoonful of corn-starch. Add the orange juice, 
strain, and sweeten to taste with sugar that has been flavored by 
rubbing over the yellow rind of an orange until mixed with the 
oil in the rind. If a richer sauce is desired, the yolk of an 
egg may be added lastly, and the sauce allowed to cook until 
thickened. 

Peach Sauce. — Strain the juice from a well-kept can of 
peaches. Dilute with one half as much water, heat to boiling, 
and thicken with corn-starch, a scant tablespoonful to the pint 
of liquid. 

Plain Pudding- Sauce. — Thicken one and one-half cups of 
water with one tablespoonful of corn-starch ; boil a few minutes, 
then stir in two thirds of a cup of sugar, and one-half cup of 
sweet cream Take off the stove, and flavor with a little rose, 
vanilla, or lemon. 

Red Sauce. — Pare and slice a large red beet, and simmer 
gently in three cups of water for twenty minutes, or until the 
water is rose colored. Remove the slices of beet, and add two 
cups of sugar, the thin yellow rind and juice of one lemon, and 
boil until the whole is a thick sirup. Strain, add a teaspoonful 
of rose water or vanilla, and serve. 



PASTRY. 

So much has been said and written about the dietetic 
evils of pastries that the very name has become almost 
synonymous with indigestion and dyspepsia. That 
they are prolific causes of this dire malady cannot be 
denied, and it is doubtless due to two reasons : first, 
because they are generally compounded of ingredients 
which are in themselves unwholesome and rendered 
doubly so by their combination; and second, because 
tastes have become so perverted that an excess of these 
articles is consumed in preference to more simple and 
nutritious food. Foods containing an excess of fat, 
as do most pastries and many varieties of cake, are ex- 
ceedingly difficult of digestion, the fat undergoing in 
the stomach no changes corresponding to those which 
occur in the digestion of other elements of food, and its 
presence interfering with the action of the gastric juice 
upon the other elements. In consequence, digestion 
proceeds very slowly, if at all, and the delay often 
occasions fermentative and putrefactive changes in the 
entire contents of the stomach. It is the indigesti- 
bility of fat, and this property of delaying the diges- 
tion of other foods, chiefly, that render pastry and 
cakes so deleterious to health. 

The writer does not wish to be understood as in 
sympathy with that class of people who maintain that 
dyspepsia is a disciplinary means of grace, when, after 
the previous statement, the following recipes are pre- 

[123] 



1^4 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

sented for preparing the very articles condemned. Pie 
and cake are not necessarily utterly unwholesome; and 
if prepared in a simple manner, may be partaken of in 
moderation by persons with good digestion, though 
they lack the healthfulness of more simple foods. 
Would women supply their tables with perfectly light, 
sweet, nutritious bread and plenty of fruit, the con- 
tinual demand for cakes and pies would no doubt 
largely cease. However, if pies and cakes must needs 
be, let them be made as simple as possible. 

General Suggestions for Making Pies. — 
Always prepare the filling for pies before making the 
crust, if the filling is to be cooked in the crust. Have 
all the material for the crust on the table, measured 
and in readiness, before beginning to put together. 
Follow some of the simple recipes given in these pages. 
Have all the material cold, handle the least possible 
to make it into a mass, and do not knead at all. 

In preparing material for custard or pumpkin pies, 
if the milk used be hot, the jDies will be improved, and 
the time of baking be considerably shortened. 

Tin or granite-ware plates are preferable to earthen 
ones for pies, as they bake better on the bottom. The 
perforated pans are superior in some respects. No 
greasing is needed ; simply rubbing them well with flour 
is sufiicient. The time required for baking pies varies 
from one half to three fourths of an hour. The 
dampers should be so adjusted as to bake the bottom 
crust first. 

After baking, remove at once to heated earthen 
plates, or set the tins upon small supports, so that 
the air can circulate underneath them. 



PASTRY. 125 

If a meringue is to be used, let the pie fii'st cool a 
little after baking before spreading. Use one scant 
tablespoonful of sugar to the stiffly beaten white of 
each egg. When spread, return to the oven, the heat 
of which should be nearly off, for fifteen or twenty 
minutes. The white of the egg being nearly pure 
albumen, it requires slow cooking, — so slow as to re- 
semble a drying rather than a baking. If put into a 
hot oven, the result is apt to be a tough, leathery com- 
pound instead of the tender, foamlike covering which 
it should be. 

RECIPE3. 

Paste for Pies. — Sift together equal parts of graham grits 
and white flour (graham flour or wheat-meal will do if the grits 
are not obtainable, but the grits will produce a more crisp and 
tender crust), and wet with very cold, thin sweet cream. Have 
the flour also as cold as possible, since the colder the material, 
the more crisp the paste ; mix together very quickly into a 
rather stiil dough. Do not knead at all, but gather the frag- 
ments lightly together, roll out at once, fill and bake quickly, 
since much of the lightness of the crust depends vipon the des- 
patch with which the pie is gotten into the oven after the 
materials are put together. If for any reason it is necessary to 
defer the baking, place the crust in the ice-chest till needed. 

Corn-Meal Crust. — Equal parts of sifted white corn-meal and 
flour, mixed together lightly with rather thin sweet cream 
which has been set in the ice-chest until very cold, makes a 
good crust. 

Beau Crust. — Soak white beans overnight. Cook for three 
hours in just enough water to cook well and not burn. Rub 
through a colander, and use for preparing the crust in the pro- 
portion of one-half cup of the prepared beans in which has been 
thoroughly incorporated one tablespoonful of good cream to the 
cup of flour. No other liquid will be needed. Knead the dough 
rather soft, and roll moderately thick. 

Nut Crust. — A very palatable crust may be prepared by chop- 
ping walnut, hickorynut, or pecan meats quite fine, then press- 



126 EVEKY-DAY DISHES. 

ing through a fine colander or sieve to make a meal. Prepare 
the crust with water, using one-half cup of nut meal to each cup 
of liquid. Thoroughly mix the nut meal with the flour before 
adding the liquid ; or, one-third white flour, one-third nut 
meal, one-third graham grits or wheat-meal may be mixed, and 
made into a dough with iced water. This is an especially nice 
crust for apple pies. 

Paste for Tart Shells. — Take one-half cup of rather thin 
sweet cream, which has been placed on ice until very cold; add 
to it the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs, and whip all together 
briskly for ten minutes. Add sufficient white flour to roll. Cut 
into the required shape, bake quickly, but do not brown. Fill 
after baking. This paste, roUecMhln and cut into shapes with a 
cooky cutter, one half of them baked plain for under crusts, the 
other half ornamented for tops by cutting small holes with a 
thimble or some fancy mold, put together with a layer of sim- 
ple fruit jelly between them, makes a most attractive dessert. 
It is likewise very nice baked in patty-pans, and afterward 
filled with apple or peach marmalade, or anj^ of the following 
fillings: — 

Cream Filling. — One cup of rich milk or part cream, heated 
to boiling. Into this stir one scant tablespoonful of flour previ- 
ously braided smooth with a little cold milk. Add to this the 
well-beaten yolk of one egg and one tablespoonful of sugar. 
Turn this mixture into the hot milk, and stir until it thickens. 
Flavor with a little grated lemon rind or vanilla, or, if preferred, 
flavor the milk with cocoanut before using. Fill the tart shells, 
and meringue with the white of the egg beaten stiff with a 
tablespoonful of sugar. 

Grape Tart. — Into one pint of canned or fresh grape juice, 
when boiling, stir two tablespoonfuls of corn-starch or maizena 
braided with a little water, and cook for five minutes. Sweeten 
to taste, and fill a baked crust. 

Lemon Filling. — Prepare according to directions given on 
page 22. 

Cocoanut Pie. — Steep one-half cup of cocoanut in a pint of 
milk for one-half hour. Strain out the cocoanut, and add suffi- 
cient fresh milk to make a pint. Allow it to become cold, then 
add a quarter of a cup of sugar and two well-beaten eggs. Bake 
with an under crust only. When done, the top may be covered 
with a meringue, if desired. 



PA8TKY. 



127 



Cream Pie. — For one pie, beat together one egg, one-half cup 
of sugar, one tablespoonful of flour, and two cups of rich milk. 
Bake in one crust. 

Cranberry Pie. — Stew a quart of cranberries until broken, in 
a pint of boiling water. Rub through a colander to remove the 
skins, add two cups of sugar and one-half cup of sifted flour. 
Bake with an under crust only. 

Dried Apple Pie. — Stew good dried apples till perfectly tender 
in as small a quantity of water as possible. When done, rub 
through a colander; they should be about the consistency of 
fruit jam; if not, a little flour may be added. Sweeten to taste, 
fill under crusts with the mixture, and bake. If lemon flavor is 
liked, a few pieces of the yellow rind may be added to the apples 
a little while before they are tender. If the apples are especially 
tasteless, lemon juice or some sour-apple jelly should be added 
after rubbing through the colander. The crusts may first be 
baked, and filled with the mixture when needed; in which case 
the sauce should be simmered lightly till of the desired consist- 
ency. The top may be ornamented with strips or rings of crust. 

Dried Apple Pie with Raisins. — Rub a quart of well-stewed 
dried apples through a colander, add a cupful of steamed raisins, 
sugar to sweeten, and bake with two crusts. This is sufficient 
for two pies. 

Dried Apricot Pie. — Stew together one-third dried apricots 
and two-thirds dried apples or peaches. When soft, rub through 
a colander, add sugar to sweeten, and if very juicy, stew again 
until the juice is mostly evaporated; then beat until light, and 
bake in a granola crust. 

Farina Pie. — Cook one-fourth cup of farina in a double boiler 
for an hour in three cups of rich milk. Allow it to become cool, 
then add one-half cup of sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and a little 
grated lemon rind. Bake with an under crust only. Meringue the 
top with the white of the egg beaten to a stiff froth with one 
tablespoonful of sugar, and a little grated lemon rind for flavor- 
ing. The quantity given is sufficient for two small pies. 

Fruit Pies. — Apples, peaches, and all small fruits and berries 
may be made into palatable pies without rich crusts or an excess 
of sugar, or the addition of unwholesome spices and flavorings. 
Bake the crust separately, and fill when needed with prepared 
fruit, or with fresh fruit, using only sufficient sugar to sweeten; 
add no spices, and bake quickly. Prepare apples for pies by 



128 EVEKY-DAY DISHES. 

paring, coring, and dividing in eighths. Peaches are best pre- 
pared in a similar manner. Fill crusts in which the fruit is 
to be baked quite full and slightly heaping in the center. If 
flavoring is desired, let it be that of some other fruit. For apple 
pies, a teaspoonful or two of pineapple juice, a little grated 
lemon or orange peel, or a little strawberry or quince sirup, 
may be used for flavoring. For pies made of apples, peaches, 
and fruits which are not very juicy, add a tablespoonful or so 
of water or fruit juice; but for very juicy fruits and berries, 
dredge the under crust with a tablespoonful of sugar and a little 
flour mixed together before filling, or stir a spoonful of flour into 
the fruit so that each berry or piece may be separately floured. 

Pumpkin Pie. — To prepare the pumpkin, cut it into halves, 
remove the seeds, divide into moderately small pieces, and bake 
in the oven until thoroughly done. Then scrape from the shell, 
rub through a colander, and proceed as follows : For one and 
one-third pints of the cooked pumpkin use one quart of hot, 
rich, sweet milk. Add one-half cup of sugar and the well- 
beaten yolks of three eggs ; beat well together, add the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and beat thoroughly. Line the 
tins with a stiff cream paste, fill, and bake in a moderate oven 
till the pies are barely firm in the center, or till the custard is 
well set. 

Piimplun Pie No. 2. — For each pie take one-half pint of 
baked pumpkin, a pint of rich milk, one-third of a cup of sugar, 
and two eggs. Mix the sugar and eggs, add the pumpkin, and 
lastly the milk, which should be hot, and beat all together with 
an egg-beater until very light. Fill the crust, and bake slowly. 

Pumpkin Pie without Eggs. — Prepare the pumpkin as pre- 
viously directed. For two medium-sized pies, heat a pint and a 
half of milk in a farina kettle, and when scalding, stir into it 
two scant tablespoonfuls of white flour rubbed smooth in a little 
cold milk. Cook, stirring often, until it thickens. Add half a 
cup of sugar, or a little less of sirup, to a pint and a half of the 
sifted pumpkin, and after beating well together, stir this into 
the hot milk. Bake in an under crust ; or, for three pies, take 
one quart and a cupful of pumpkin, three fourths of a cup of 
sugar, two thirds of a cup of best New Orleans molasses, and 
three pints of hot milk. Beat all together thoroughly. Line 
deep plates with a cream crust, and bake an hour and a half in 
a moderate oven. 



PASTBY. ] 29 

Simple Custard Pie.— For one pie, take one pint of milk, two 
well-beaten eggs, one third of a cup of sugar, and a little grated 
lemon rind for flavoring. Bake in an under crust. If eggs are 
scarce, a very good pie may be made by using only one egg and 
a tablespoonful of corn-starch, with the above proportions of 
milk and sugar ; in which case, heat the milk to scalding, stir 
in the corn-starch, and cook till thickened ; cool, and then add 
the well-beaten egg. If preferred, the crust may be baked be- 
fore filling, and the custard steamed meanwhile. 

Squash Pie. — Squash prepared as directed for pumpkin, and 
flavored with rose water, makes an excellent pie. Or, for each 
pie desired, take one pint of rich milk or part cream, add one 
cup of nicely baked mealy squash which has been rubbed 
through a colander, one third of a cup of sugar, and two well- 
beaten eggs. Beat all together thoroughly. Bake in a deep pan 
slowly and carefully until firm. 

Squash Pie without Eggs. — Bake the squash in the shell; 
when done, remove with a spoon and mash through a colander. 
For one pie, take eight tablespoonfuls of the squash, half a cup 
of sugar, and one and one-third cups of boiling milk. Pour the 
milk slowly over the squash, beating rapidly meanwhile to 
make the mixture light. Bake in one crust. 

Sweet- Apple Custard Pie. — Into one pint of new milk, grate 
three ripe sweet apples (Golden Sweets are excellent) ; add two 
well-beaten eggs, and sugar to taste. Bake with an under crust 
only. 

Sweet Potato Pie. — Bake sufficient sweet potatoes to make a 
pint of pulp when rubbed through a colander ; add a pint of 
rich milk, a scant cup of sugar, salt if desired, the yolks of two 
eggs, and a little grated lemon rind for flavor Bake with un- 
der crust. When done, meringue with the whites of the eggs 
beaten up with a tablespoonful of sugar. 



CAKE. 

General Suggestions. — Always sift the flour 
for cake before measuring out the amount required. 
Use the best granulated white sugar. If eggs are used 
in cake, it is better to have the yolks and whites beaten 
separately. Beat the former until they cease to froth 
and begin to thicken as if mixed with flour. Beat the 
whites until stiff enough to remain in the bowl if in- 
verted. Have the eggs and dishes cool, and if pos- 
sible beat in a cool room. Use earthen or china bowls 
to beat eggs in. 

If fruit is to be used, it should be washed and dried, 
and then dusted with flour, a dessert- spoonful to the 
pound of fruit. For use in cup cake or any other cake 
which requires quick baking, raisins should be first 
steamed. If you have no patent steamer, place them 
in a close-covered dish within an ordinary steamer, and 
cook for an hour over boiling water. This should be 
done the day before they are to be used. 

Use an earthen or granite-ware basin for mixing 
cake. Be very accurate in measui-ing the materials, 
and have them all at hand and all utensils ready before 
beginning to put the cake together. If it is to be baked 
at once, see that the oven also is at just the right tem- 
perature. It should be less hot for cake than for bread. 
Thin cakes require a hotter oven than those baked in 
loaves. They require from fifteen to twenty minutes 
to bake; thicker loaves, from thirty to sixty minutes. 

[130] 



CAKE. 131 

For loaf cakes the oven should be at such a temperature 
that during the first half of the time the cake will have 
risen to its full height and just begun to brown. 

The recipes given require no baking-powder, soda, 
or saleratus. 

RECIPES. 

Delicate Cup Cake. — This cake contains no soda or baking- 
powder, and to make it light requires the incorporation of as 
much air as possible. In order to accomplish this, it should be 
put together in the same manner as directed for batter breads 
(page 50). Have all material measured and ever^'thing in 
readiness before beginning to put the cake together ; then beat 
together the yolk of one egg, one cup of sugar, and one cup of 
very cold sweet cream, until all of a foam ; add a little grated 
lemon rind for flavoring ; stir in slowly, beating briskly all the 
time, two cups of granular white flour (sometimes termed gluten 
flour), graham flour, or wheat-meal. When all the flour is added, 
add lastly the beaten whites of two eggs, stirring just enough to 
mix them well throughout the whole; turn at once into slightly 
heated gem-irons which have been previously oiled, and bake in 
a moderately quick oven. If made according to directions, this 
cake will be very light and delicate. It will not puff up much 
above its first proportions, but will be light throughout. 

A nice cake may be prepared in the same manner with gra- 
ham flour or wheat-meal or even white flour, by the addition of a 
heaping tablespoonful of corn-starch or maizena sifted into the 
flour, in the way in which baking-powder is ordinarily mixed 
with flour before using. 

Plain Buns. — These are the simplest of all cakes. Dissolve 
half of a small cake of compressed yeast in a cup of thin cream 
which has been previously warmed to blood heat, add two cups 
of warm flour, and beat thoroughly together. Put in a warm 
place, and let it rise till very light. Add three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar mixed well with a half cup of warm flour, one- half cup of 
Zante currants, and sufficient flour to make of the consistoncj' of 
dough. Buns should be kneaded just as soft as possible, and 
from fifteen to twenty minutes. Shape into biscuits a little 
larger than an English walnut, and place on tins far enough 
apart so they will not touch each other when risen. Put in a 



132 EVEKY-DAY DISHES. 

warm place till they have risen to twice their first size, then 
bake in a moderately quick oven. If desired, the currants may 
be omitted and a little grated lemon rind for flavoring added 
■with the sugar, or a bit of citron may be placed in the top of 
each bun when shaping. When taken from the oven, sprinkle 
the top of each with moist sugar, if desired, or glaze by brushing 
with milk while baking. 

Sponge Cake. — For this will be required four eggs, one cup of 
sugar, one tablespoonful of lemon juice with a little of the grated 
rind, and one cup of white flour. Success in the making of 
sponge cake depends almost wholly upon the manner in which 
it is put together. Beat the yolks of the eggs until very light 
and thick, then add the sugar little by little, beating it in thor- 
oughly; add the lemon juice and the grated rind. Beat the 
whites of the eggs until perfectly stiff and firm, and fold or chop 
them very lightly into the yolk mixture. Sift the flour with a 
sifter little by little over the mixture and fold it carefully in. 
On no account stir in either the white of the eggs or the flour, 
since stirring will drive out the air which has been beaten into 
the egg. Do not beat after the Hour is added. The cake, when 
the flour is all in, should be stiff and spongy. If it is liquid in 
character, it will be apt to be tough, and may be considered a 
failure. Bake in a shallow pan in a rather hot oven fifteen or 
twenty minutes. 

Sugar Crisps. — Make a soft dough of two and one-fourth 
cups of graham flour or wheat-meal, one-half cup of granulated 
white sugar, and one cup of rather thick sweet cream. Knead 
as little as possible, roll out very thin, cut in rounds or squares, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Cream Sponge Cake. — Beat the yolks of three eggs to a cream. 
Add one cup of sugar and two tablespoonfuls of sweet cream, 
beating very thoroughly. Flavor, if desired. Beat the whites of 
the eggs with a pinch of salt to a very stiff froth, and chop into 
the yolk mixture with one cup of flour which has been sifted 
three times. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Miss H.'s Sunshine Cake.— Beat the whites of five eggs until 
very stiff. Thoroughly beat the yolks, with one cup of sugar. 
Fold in carefully the beaten whites, add the flavoring, and lastly 
fold in two thirds of a cup of well-sifted flour. Bake in a loaf, 
or in patty-pans. 

Layer Cake. — Bake any of the above sponge cakes in layers, 
and spread with fresh fruit or fruit jelly. 



CAKE. 133 

Orange Cake. — Prepare the cake as for sponge cake, and 
bake in two layers. For the filling, take two good-sized, juicy 
oranges. Flavor two tablespoonfuls of sugar by rubbing it over 
the skin of the oranges ; then peel, remove the white rind, and 
cut into small pieces, discarding the seeds and the central pith. 
Put the orange pulp in a china bowl, and set in a dish of boil- 
ing water. When it is hot, stir in a heaping teaspoonful of 
corn-starch which has been braided smooth in two spoonfuls of 
water. Stir constantly until the starch has cooked, and the 
whole becomes thickened. Beat the yolk of one egg to a cream 
with two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Stir this very gradually, so 
as not to lump, into the orange mixture, and cook two or three 
minutes longer. Remove from the fire, and when cool, spread 
between the cakes. If the oranges are not very tart, a little 
lemon juice is an improvement. Meringue the top of the cake 
with the white of the egg beaten up with the two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar flavored with orange. 

Pineapple Cake. — Prepare as for orange cake, using grated 
pineapple in place of oranges. 

Mrs. N.'s White Sponge Cake. — Take the whites of six large 
or seven small eggs, one cup of sifted granulated sugar, a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice, and two thirds of a cup of flour. Sift 
the flour three or four times, to make it very light. Add a pinch 
of salt to the whites of the eggs, and beat until stiff enough to 
remain in the dish if turned bottom upwards. Then add the 
lemon juice, and beat again until the whites are very stiff. Add 
the flavoring and sugar. Fold the flour in lightly and quickly, 
and bake slowlj' thirty-five to fifty minutes. 

Fruit and Nut Sponge Drop Cake. — Beat the yolks of four 
eggs to a thick cream, add two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice and 
beat again, add one cup of nut meal and one cup of dates 
stoned and rubbed to a smooth cream. Beat all together very 
thoroughly ; lastly add the whites of the four eggs beaten to a 
very stiff froth and two tablespoonfuls of gluten meal No. 1 or 
browned whole-wheat flour, folding and chopping this in very 
carefully. Drop in spoonfuls on slightly oiled plates, and bake 
ten or twelve minutes. Handle carefully until cold. 



TOASTS. 



The foundation of all these toasts is zwieback^ or 
twice-baked bread, prepared from good whole-wheat or 
graham fermented bread cut in uniform slices not more 
than a half ioch thick, each slice being divided in 
halves, placed on perforated tins, and baked or toasted 
in a slow oven for a half hour or longer, until it is 
browned evenly throughout the entire slice. The zwie- 
back may be prepared in considerable quantity and 
kept on hand in readiness for use. It will keep for 
any length of time if stored in a dry place. It is 
serviceable in so many ways that it should form a 
staple article of food in every household. 

Stale bread is the best for making zwieback, but it 
should be good, light bread ; that which is sour, heavy, 
and not fit to eat untoasted, should never be used. 
Care must also be taken not to scorch the slices, as that 
spoils it. Properly made, it is equally crisp through- 
out, and possesses a delicious, nutty flavor. 

Zwieback may be purchased in bulk, all ready for 
use, from the Battle Creek Sanitarium Health Food Co. 

For the preparation of toasts, the zwieback must be 
first softened with some hot liquid. If cream is used 
for this purpose, it should be fresh and very thin. 
Heat it nearly to boiling in some rather shallow dish. 
Put the slices, two or three at a time, in it, dipping the 
cream over them, and turning so that both sides will 
[134] 



TOASTS. 135 

become equally softened. Keep the cream hot, and let 
the slices remain until softened just enough so that the 
center can be pierced with a fork, but not until at all 
mushy or broken. With two forks or a fork and a 
spoon, remove each slice from the hot cream, draining 
as thoroughly as possible, and pack in a heated dish, 
and repeat the process until as much zwieback has been 
softened as desired. Cover the dish, and keep hot 
until ready to serve. Special care should be taken to 
drain the slices as thoroughly as possible, to prevent 
their becoming wet and mushy. It is better to remove 
them from the cream when a little hard than to allow 
them to become too soft, as they will soften somewhat 
by standing, after being packed in the dish. Prepare 
the sauce for the toast, and pour into a pitcher for 
serving. Serve the slices in individual dishes, turning 
a small quantity of the hot sauce over each as served. 
If water instead of cream be used to soak the zwieback, 
lay the slices on a perforated tin or in the bottom of a 
colander, set within another dish, turn boiling water 
over and draia immediately. Hot fruit juices may be 
used in a similar manner for this purpose. 

RECIPES. 

Apple Toast.— Fresh, fine-flavored apples stewed in a snaall 
quantity of water, rubbed through a colander, sweetened, then 
cooked in a granite-ware dish in a slow oven until quite dry, 
make a nice dressing for toast. Baked sweet or sour apples, 
rubbed through a colander to remove cores and skins, are excel- 
lent. Dried apples, thoroughly cooked, sweetened, and rubbed 
through a colander, are also excellent for this purpose. Soften 
the slices of zwieback with hot liquid, and serve with a spoon- 
ful or two on each slice. If desired, the apple may be flavored 
with a little pineapple or lemon, or mixed with grape, cran- 
berry, or apricot, thus making a number of different toasts. 



13G EYEKT-DAY DISHES. 

Apricot Toast. — Stew some nice dried apricots as directed on 
page Gl. Wlien done, rub through a fine colander to remove 
all skins and to render them homogeneous. Add sugar to 
sweeten, and serve as a dressing on slices of zwieback which 
have been previous]}' softened in hot liquid. One-half or two- 
thirds fresh or dried apples may be used with tlie apricots, if 
preferred. 

Asparagus Toast. — Prepare asparagus~as directed on page 88. 
When tender, drain off the liquor and season it with a little 
cream, and salt if desired. Moisten zwieback in the liquor, and 
lay in a hot dish ; unbind tlie asparagus, heap it upon the toast, 
and serve. 

Banana Toast. — Peel and press some good bananas through a 
colander. This may be very easilj' done with a potato masher, 
or a vegetable press may be used for the purpose. Moisten slices 
of zwieback with hot cream, and serve with a large spoonful of 
the banana pulp on each slice. Fresh peaches may be prepared 
and used on the toast in the same way. 

Berry Toast. — Canned strawberries, blueberries, and black- 
berries may be made into an excellent dressing for toast. 

Turn a can of well-kept berries into a colander over an 
earthen dish, to separate the juice from the berries. Place the 
juice in a porcelain kettle and heat to boiling. Thicken to the 
consistency of cream with flour rubbed smooth in a little water ; 
a tablespoonful of flour to the pint of juice will be about the 
right proportion. Add the berries, and boil up just sufficiently 
to cook the flour and heat the berries ; serve hot. If cream for 
moistening the zwieback is not at hand, a little juice may be 
reserved without thickening, and heated in another dish for this 
purpose ; or if preferred, the fruit may be heated and poured 
over the dry zwieback without being thickened, or it may be 
rubbed through a colander as for apricot toast. 

Berry Toast No. 2. — Take fresh red or black raspberries, blue- 
berries, or strawberries, and mash well with a spoon. Add sugar 
to sweeten, and serve as a dressing on slices of zwieback pre- 
viously moistened with hot liquid. 

Celery Toast. — Cut the crisp white portion of celery into inch 
pieces, simmer twenty minutes or half an hour, or until tender, 
in a very little water ; add salt and a cup of rich milk. Heat to 
boiling, and thicken with a little flour rubbed smooth in a small 
quantity of milk — a teaspoonful of flour to the pint of liquid. 



TOASTS. 



137 



Serve hot, poured over slices of zwieback previously moistened 
with cream or hot water. 

Cream Toast.— Use good graham or whole-wheat zwieback. 
Have a pint of thin sweet cream scalding hot; salt it a little if 
desired, and moisten the zwieback in it as previously directed, 
packing it immediately into a hot dish ; cover tightly so that the 
toast may steam ; and serve. The slices should be thoroughly 
moistened, but not soft and mushy nor swimming in cream; 
indeed, it is better if a little of the crispness still remains, 

Cream Toast with Poached Egg.- Prepare the cream toast 
as previously directed, and serve hot with a well-poached egg on 
each slice. 

Cherry Toast.— Take a quart of ripe cherries; stem, wash, 
and stew ( if preferred, the stones may be removed) until tender 
but not broken ; add sugar to sweeten, and pour over slices of 
well-browned dry toast or zwieback. Serve cold. 

Gravy Toast.— Heat a quart and a cupful of rich milk to 
boiling, add salt, and stir into it three scant tablespoonfuls of 
flour which has been rubbed to a smooth paste in a little cold 
milk. This quantity will be sufficient for about a dozen slices of 
toast. Moisten slices of zwieback with hot water, and pack in a 
heated dish. When serving, pour a quantity of the cream sauce 
over each slice. 

Dry Toast with Hot Cream.— Nicely prepared zwieback 
served in hot saucers with hot cream poured over each slice at 
the table, makes a most delicious breakfast dish. 

Grape Toast.— Stem well-ripened grapes, wash well, and 
scald without water in a double boiler until broken ; rub through 
a colander to remove seeds and skins, and when cool, sweeten to 
taste. If the toast is desired for breakfast, the grapes should 
be prepared the day previous. Soften the toast in hot cream, as 
previously directed, and pack in a tureen. Heat the prepared 
grapes and serve, pouring a small quantity over each slice of 
toast. Canned grapes may be used instead of fresh ones, if 
desired. 

Lentil Toast.- Lentils stewed as directed for lentil gravy on 
page 76 served as a dressing on slices of zwieback moistened 
with hot cream or water makes a very palatable toast. Browned 
flour may be used to thicken the dressing, if preferred. 

Prune Toast.- Cook prunes as directed on page G2, allowing 
them to simmer very slowly for a long time. When done, rub 



138 EVERY-DAY DISHES. 

through a colander, and if quite thin, stew again for a time, 
until they are about the consistency of marmalade. Moisten 
slices of zwieback with hot cream, and serve with a spoonful or 
two of the prune dressing on each. One-third dried apple may 
be used with the prunes, if preferred. 

Peach Toast. — Stew fresh peaches in a small quantity of 
water ; when tender, rub through a colander, and if quite juicy, 
place on the back of the range where they will cook very slowly 
until nearly all the water has evaporated, and the peach is of 
the consistency of marmalade. Add sugar to sweeten, and serve 
the same as prunes, on slices of zwieback previously moistened 
with hot liquid. Canned peaches may be drained from their 
juice and prepared in the same manner. Dried or evaporated 
peaches may also be used. Toast with dried-peach dressing will 
be more delicate in flavor if one-third dried apples be used with 
the peaches. 

Snowflake Toast. — Heat to boiling a quart of milk to which 
a half cup of cream and a little salt have been added. Thicken 
with a tablespoonful of flour rubbed smooth in a little cold milk. 
Have ready the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; and 
when the sauce is well cooked, turn a cupful of it on the beaten 
egg, stirring well meanwhile, so that it will form a light, frothy 
mixture, to which add the remainder of the sauce. If the sauce 
is not sufficiently hot to coagulate the albumen, it may be heated 
again almost to the boiling point, but should not be allowed 
to boil. The sauce should be of a light, frothy consistency 
throughout. Serve as dressing on nicely moistened slices of 
zwieback. 

Tomato Toast. — Moisten slices of zwieback, and serve with 
a dressing prepared by heating a pint of strained stewed tomato 
to boiling, and thickening with a tablespoonful of corn-starch 
or flour rubbed smooth in a little cold water. Season with salt 
and a half cupful of hot cream. The cream may be omitted, if 
preferred. 

Vegetable Oyster Toast. — Cook a quart of cleaned, sliced 
vegetable oysters in a quart of water until very tender ; add a 
pint and a half of rich milk, salt to taste, and thicken the whole 
with two tablespoonf uls of flour rubbed to a smooth paste with 
a little milk. Let it boil for a few minutes, and serve as a dress- 
ing on slices of well-browned toast previously moistened with 
hot water or cream. 



THE BATTLE CREEK SANITARIUM 

HEALTH FOOD COMPANY'S 

PRODUCTS. 



GRANOLA. 

Gkanola is a preparation of oats and wheat ready 
cooked. It is excellent eaten with milk or cream, 
either hot or cold. It may also be served with fruit 
jdices, or it may be used in place of bread crumbs 
for scalloped vegetables, and for sprinkling the tops 
of prepared dishes. 

RECIPES. 

Granola Mush,— Granola makes a most appetizing and quickly 
prepared breakfast dish. Into a quart of boiling water sprinkle 
a pint of granola. Milk may be used instead of water, if pre- 
ferred ; then a little less granola will be needed. Cook for two 
or three minutes, and serve hot with cream. 

Granola Fruit Mush.— Prepare the mush as directed, and stir 
into it, when done, a large cupful of nicely steamed, seedless 
raisins. Serve hot with cream. Milk may be used instead of 
water, if preferred. 

Granola Peach Mush.— Instead of the raisins directed in the 
preceding recipe, add to the mush, when done, a pint of sliced 
yellow peaches. Finely cut, mellow sweet apples, sliced bana- 
nas, or blueberries may be used in a similar way. 

Raspberry Granola Mush.— For this, use the freshly extracted 
juice of red raspberries, diluted with one part of water, or the 
juice from canned red raspberries. Heat a quart of the juice 
to boiling, sprinkle in sufficient granola to thicken (about one 
pint will be needed), cook for two or three minutes, and serve 
hot, with or without cream. 

[1391 



140 EVEKY-DAT DISHES. 

Grape Graiiola Mush. — Prepare the same as the preceding, 
using the juice of grapes for the liquid. Other fruit juices may 
be used in the same manner. 

Granola and Gluten Mush. — Heat a quart of millv to boiling. 
Into it stir one-half cup of prepared gluten, mixed with one 
cup of granola. Cook for two or three minutes, beating it 
lightly meanwhile ; tiien serve. 

Granola Crust for Pies. — For one pie take two thirds of a 
cup of granola, moisten with an equal quantity of thin cream 
or rich milk, and let it stand a minute ; i)lace the moistened 
mass in the center of the pie-tin, and with a spoon spread it 
evenly and thinly over the bottom and around the sides of the 
tin, leaving no holes. Fill with any one of the different pre- 
pared fillings given below, and bake ten or fifteen minutes. To 
form the edge nicely, rest the length of the first finger of the 
left hand against the edge of the tin, and press the material 
against it. The shaping of the crust will require but a few 
moments, and should be done as soon as the granola is well 
moistened, as it absorbs the liquid and soon becomes dry again. 

Prune Filling for Pie. — Cook sweet California prunes ( which 
have been well washed and cleaned ) in three i^arts water to 
one of prunes, slowly for several hours. When well done, rub 
through a colander to remove the skins and stones. If the pulp 
when thus prepared is too thin, place in a covered earthen dish 
and set on the stove to remain until the liquid has evaporated 
sufficiently to leave the pulp of about the consistency of thin 
marmalade. Fill the crust with the prune pulp, and bake. No 
sugar will be needed with the sweet prunes. Sour prunes sweet- 
ened may be used, if preferred. A meringue may be added, if 
desired. 

Dried Apple Filling. — Stew dried apples nicely; when done, 
rub through a colander, evaporate to the proper consistency, add 
sugar to taste, and use the same as the prune filling. Dried 
peaches may be utilized in the same manner, also fresh green 
apples. 

Custard Filling. — Take one pint of milk, one well-beaten egg, 
a tablespoonful of corn-starch, one third of a cup of sugar, and 
a little grated lemon rind for flavoring. Heat the milk to scald- 
ing, stir in the corn-starch, and cook until thickened ; cool, and 
add the egg well beaten. Turn into a granola crust and bake. 



SANITARIUM HEALTH FOODS. 141 

Lemon Filling. — Take four tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, the 
grated yellow portion only of the rind of half a lemon, and two 
thirds of a cup of sugar. Beat the lemon juice and the sugar 
together. Braid a slightly heaping tablespoonful of corn-starch 
with as little water as possible, and pour over it, stirring con- 
stantly, one-half pint of boiling water, to thicken the starch. 
Add the lemon and sugar to the starch, and let it cool ; then stir 
in the yolks of two eggs and half the white of one well beaten 
together. Beat thoroughly, pour into the crust, and bake. 

Berry Filling. — Stew the fruit, sweeten, and thicken with a 
little corn-starch or flour ; or the fresh fruit may be introduced 
into a cup or more of water in which has been cooked a round- 
ing spoonful of sago or manioca. 



CiRANOSE. 

Gkanose is a ])reparation of wheat, in which all the 
elements of the grain are preserved, and by combined 
processes of digestion, cooking, roasting, and steaming, 
are brought into a state which renders assimilation pos- 
sible with the smallest amount of labor on the part of 
the digestive organs. 

Like wheat bread, it combines admirably with every 
iiavor. It is unequaled as an addition to liquid foods 
of all kinds, but is, by the mode of manufacture, ren- 
dered BO extremely soluble that it softens at once ; 
hence to preserve, in part, its delightful crispness, it 
should be combined with liquid as eaten, instead of 
being added and allowed to soak, as in the case of 
zwieback and crackers. 

Granose eaten dry is almost a specific for most forms 
of indigestion. Granose is the best of all food cures 
for constipation, which it generally relieves within a 
few days, if eaten freely. 



142 EVEKY-DAY DISHES. 



RECIPES. 

Granose Fruit Dessert. — Prepare a fruit pulp by rubbing 
stewed grapes, cranberries, tart apples, or prunes through a col- 
ander ; sweeten to taste, and evaporate to about the consistency 
of marmalade. Spread a thin layer of dry granose in the bottom 
of a pudding-dish ; add a layer of the fruit pulp, then a layer of 
granose. Fill the dish with alternate layers of fruit and granose, 
finishing with a layer of granose on the top. Let it stand for 
an hour or so until the granose flakes have become slightly 
moistened. Cut in squares and serve. In its perfection this 
dessert should be neither mushj' nor variegated with dry gra- 
nose, but each flake throughout should be delicately moistened 
with the fruit pulp. Thus it will be if care is taken in the prepa- 
ration of the fruit pulp, and no more granose used than the fruit 
can moisten. 

Granose with Egg. — Granose is an excellent accompaniment 
of soft-boiled or poached eggs. Serve the eggs, when cooked, 
with a spoonful or two of the dry granose in each individual 
dish. 

Granose Pudding. — One pint of milk, one and one-half cups 
of granose, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, and the yolks of two 
eggs and the white of one. Bake slowly for one hour in a dish 
pl-aced in the oven inside a pan of hot water. 

Granose Finiit Custard.— Take two slightly heaping cups of 
granose, two cups of milk, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and two 
eggs. Add the yolks of the eggs, with the sugar and the gra- 
nose, to the milk; beat lightly for a few minutes; then add the 
well-beaten white and one cup of canned or stewed cherries 
which have been well drained from juice. Bake in a slow oven 
till the custard is set. Allow the custard to become cold before 
serving. 

Molded Granose Dessert.— Flavor a pint of milk by steeping 
three or four tablespoonfuls of desiccated cocoanut in it for 
twenty minutes. (The milk must not be allowed to boil.) If 
the milk has evaporated, add enough more to make a full pint. 
Add a tablespoonful of sugar and two well-beaten eggs; cook 
until the custard is set, in a double boiler, or a bowl placed in 
a dish of hot water. Add a sufficient quantity of dry granose to 
make the whole quite thick, and mold in cups. No dressing is 
required. 



SANITARIUM HEALTH FOODS. 143 

Granose Dumplings. — Pare and remove the cores from quickly 
cooking tart apples. Fill the cavity with sugar. Moisten dry 
granose with cream sufficiently so that it can be pressed around 
the prepared apple the same as dough, and bake until the apple 
within the dumj^ling is tender. Serve with cream. 

Grauose Dumplings with Nut Meal. — Prepare the apples as 
previously directed. Mix two spoonfuls of nut meal with each 
cup of granose, and moisten with water or the juice of stewed 
api)les sufficiently so that it can be pressed about the prepared 
apple. Bake, and serve with a dressing prepared by thickening 
the juice of apples with a little corn-starch or browned flour, and 
sweetened to taste with sugar previously flavored with lemon. 

Granose Drop Cakes. — Beat the yolks of two eggs, one third 
of a cup of sugar, and two tablespoonfuls of bromose together to 
a cream. Stir in lightly the well-beaten whites of the eggs and 
two cups of dry granose. Drop in small spoonfuls on a tin, and 
bake fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Granose Shortcake. — Cover the bottom of a shallow pudding- 
dish with a thin layer of dry granose, add a layer of fresh straw- 
berries, chopped and slightly sweetened, then a second layer of 
granose. Fill the dish thus with alternate layers of granose and 
berries. Set awaj^ in a cool place for an hour, when it will be 
ready to serve. Cut in squares. No dressing is required, but it 
maj' be served with cream, if desired. This is a delicious dish, 
and one which is as wholesome as delicate. Raspberries and 
other small fruits mav be used in the same manner. 



GRANOSE BISCUIT. 

These may be served cold or warm, with milk or 
cream; used as toast for poached eggs, asparagus, and 
fresh fruits mashed and sweetened to taste; or they 
may be served with hot stewed fruits or fruit juices 
poured over them. They are an excellent accompani- 
ment for hot soups of all kinds. 



144 EVEBY-DAY DISHES. 

CRYSTAL WHEAT. 

Crystal Wheat is a preparation of wheat in which 
the entire kernel is preserved, the grain having been 
subjected only to processes of thorough cleaning, with- 
out the removal of any portion of the bran or the sac- 
rifice of any of its nutritive elements. In the process 
of manufacture the grain is exposed to a cooking heat 
for several hours, so that it is thoroughly cooked. The 
simple addition of water, with a little heat for a length 
of time sufiicient to give the particles an opportunity to 
absorb the necessary amount of moisture, is all that is 
necessary to prepare it for the table^ 

RECIPES. 

Crystal Wheat.— Into a pint of boiling water in the inner 
cup of a double boiler, sprinkle an equal measure (one pint) 
of crystal wheat. Stir until it becomes thickened ; then place 
in the outer boiler, in which the water should be activelj' 
boiling, and cook for half an hour or longer. Serve with cream, 
fruit juices, stewed fruits, or the lentil dressing mentioned on 
p. 148. Crystal wheat may be equally well cooked by placing the 
required quantity of both water and grits, measure for measure, 
in a stone baking-jar or kettle, and covering and baking in the 
oven for one half to three quarters of an hour. 

Brown Bread.— Take four cupfuls of strong caramel-cereal, 
and add to this one-half cup of nut meal or two tablespoon fuls 
of nut butter, one-half cup of sugar, and a pinch of salt. Heat 
to boiling, then add one-third cup of rye flour, one-third cup of 
white flour, one-third cup of best corn-meal, and three cups of 
cooked crystal wheat, in the order named. Turn into an oiled 
mold or basin, and steam for three hours. 

Brown Bread No. 2.— Prepare like the preceding, using one 
cup of sweet cream in place of the nut butter or nut meal, and 
one cup less of caramel-cereal. 

Vegetable Roast. — One cup of strained stewed tomato, one 
cup of cooked lentils (measured after being rubbed through a 



SANITARIUM HEALTH FOODS. 146 

colander), one cup of cooked crj'stal wheat, one tablespoonful of 
nut butter or thick cream, one-half teaspoonful of finely pow- 
dered and sifted sage, or one tablespoonful of very finely minced 
celery. Add a little salt for seasoning, turn into a baking-dish, 
and bake in the oven until quite dry. 

Vegetable Roast No. 2. — Two cups of cooked lentils, one cup 
of dry crystal wheat, one tablespoonful of nut butter, and salt to 
season. Bake in the oven until quite dry, and serve hot with 
lentil dressing (p. 148). 

Crystal Wheat Custard Putldiiig.— Take two cups of cooked 
crystal wheat, two and one-half cups of milk, one-half cup of 
sugar, and two eggs. Beat together thoroughly, and bake in a 
moderate oven until the custard is well set. A little grated 
lemon rind may be used as flavoring, or sugar may be omitted, 
and a cup of raisins added. 

Crystal Wheat Fniit Pudding.— Prepare as directed for 
plain fruit pudding on p. 117, using cooked crystal wheat in- 
stead of bread crumbs. 



GLUTEN. 

Gluten is a food supplying not only the nitrogenous, 
or blood-making, but the fat-making, elements as well, 
so that it may be relied upon as an exclusive source of 
nourishment, in case of necessity. It agrees well with 
the most feeble stomachs, and for those unable to digest 
fat in any form, its value can scarcely be estimated. 
In the form of gruel it also constitutes a most excel- 
lent food for infants. 

RECIPES. 

Gluten Grruel.— Stir two and one-half tablespoonfuls of the 
wheat gluten prepared by the Battle Creek Sanitarium Health 
Food Co., into a pint of boiling milk; boil until thickened, 
when it is ready to serve. 

Gluten Gruel No. 2.— Into a pint of boiling water stir three 
heaping tablespoonfuls of the prepared gluten. Boil until 
thickened, and add a half cup of thin cream. 
10 



146 EVBRY-DAY DISHES. 

Gluten Cream. — Heat a pint of thin cream to boiling, and 
stir into it three tablespoonfuls of wheat gluten. When 
thickened, it is ready to Berve. 

Gluten Meal Gruel. — Into a cup and a half of boiling water 
stir four tablespoonfuls of gluten meal (prepared by the Battle 
Creek Sanitarium Health Food Co.), let it boil for a moment, 
add six tablespoonfuls of rather thin sweet cream, and serve. 

Gluten Mush with Dates. — Heat a quart of millc or water, or 
one-half of each, as preferred, to boiling ; sift in lightly with the 
fingers six tablespoonfuls of gluten, or sufficifnt to make a mush 
of the desired consistency. Just before serving, add some fresh 
dates, from which the stones have been removed. 

Gluten Custard. — Into a quart of boiling milk stir four table- 
spoonfuls of wheat gluten moistened with a little cold milk. 
Allow it to cook until thickened. When it is of a lukewarm 
temperature, add three well-beaten eggs, and a trifle of salt if 
desired. Turn into cups, and steam over a kettle of boiling 
water until the custard is set. 

Gluten Gravy. — To one pint of good milk add one tablespoon- 
ful of gluten meal. Leave it in a double boiler to cook fifteen 
or twenty minutes. Salt to taste, and thicken with flour to the 
desired consistency. Serve as a dressing for baked potatoes. 

Lemon Gluten Gruel. — Into one cup of boiling water sprinkle 
one tablespoonful of gluten. Let it boil up for one or two min- 
utes, and when cold, add one level teaspoonful of sugar and one 
tablespoonful of lemon juice. The gruel may be used warm, if 
desired, but the lemon juice should not be added until just before 
serving. 

Gluten Meal Gems. — Beat together one-half cup of ice-water, 
one-half cup of tliick sweet cream, and one egg; then add one 
cup and a tablespoonful of gluten meal. Turn into slightly 
heated gem-irons, and bake in a moderately hot oven from one 
half to three fourths of an hour. 

Gluten Mush. — Heat together a cup of thin cream and three 
cups of water; when boiling, sift in lightly with the fingers, stir- 
ring continuously meanwhile, enough wheat gluten to make a 
mush of the desired consistency. Boil up once, and serve. A 
few blanched or roasted almonds may be stirred in just before 
serving, if desired. 

Tomato Gluten. — Heat a pint of stewed tomato, which has 
been rubbed through a fine colander to remove the seeds, to boil- 



SANITARIUM HEALTH FOODS. 147 

ing, add salt to season, and three tablespoonfuls of gluten meal. 
Boil together for a moment until thickened, and serve hot. 

Tomato Gluten No. 2.— Prepare the same as the preceding, 
using five tablespoonfuls of gluten meal, and seasoning with two 
tablespoonfuls of rather thick sweet cream. 

Gluten Bread Relish.— Thoroughly sterilize in a double boiler 
one quart of rich milk, add one teaspoonful of salt, and into it 
stir one cup of No. 3 gluten. Allow the mixture to cook three 
minutes, and then thoroughly incorporate one well-beaten egg. 
(Some consider it more palatable without egg.) Pour at once 
into a mold or molds. Cover to prevent the top from drying. 



NUT BUTTER AND NUT MEAL. 

Many persons suffer from biliousness, nervous and 
sick-headache, and various forms of indigestion, from 
the use of butter, milk, and cream, without being aware 
that these substances are harmful to them. Persons 
suffering from dilatation of the stomach, a condition 
which is exceedingly common, must avoid milk and 
butter in all forms. Nut butter and nut meal have 
been prepared as substitutes for butter and cream. In 
nut butter, the fat is in a state of perfect emulsion, so 
that it mixes well with water. Thus it does not in- 
terfere with digestion. 

Nut butter may be used in all dishes in which cream 
or butter is ordinarily used; as it has only about one 
half as much fat as ordinary butter, twice the quan- 
tity may be used. Nut meal may be used in about 
the same proportion, if preferred. Two tablespoon- 
fuls of either the nut butter or meal may be used in 
place of one cup of cream for seasoning soups and 
vegetables. 



148 KVBRY-DAY DISHES. 



RECIPES. 

A Quickly Prepared Soup. — Into a quart of water slice a 
small onion, and add a teaspoonful of nut butter. Heat to boil- 
ing, then remove the slices of onion, which are used simply for 
flavoring the soup, and stir m six rounding tablespoonfuls of No. 
3 gluten prepared by the Battle Creek Sanitarium Health Food 
Co. Boil until thickened, add salt to season, and it is ready to 
serve. 

Nut Butter Pie Crust. — Take one tablespoonful of nut butter 
to one cup of flour, and use in same manner as ordinary shorten- 
ing, adding cold water sufficient to make a dough. 

Baked Cabbage. — Chop cabbage fine, and cook in boiling 
water twenty minutes. Drain in a colander. To one quart of 
the cooked cabbage add a cupful of water in which has been dis- 
solved a dessert-spoonful of nut butter, two well-beaten eggs, and 
the juice of one lemon. Add salt to taste. Mix thoroughly, and 
bake in a double baker until the cabbage is thoroughly done 
and the egg well cooked. 

Lentil and Tomato Soup. — Two and three-fourths cups of 
lentils (measured after having been cooked and rubbed through 
a colander), one cup of strained tomato, one teaspoonful of nut 
butter, and two stalks of celery. To these add sufficient water 
to make the soup of proper consistency. Heat to boiling, remove 
the celery, and add salt to season and one teaspoonful of browned 
flour rubbed to a paste with a little water. Boil for two or three 
minutes until the flour is cooked, then serve. 

Nuts with Lentils. — Use three pints of strained. cooked lentils, 
and one pint of stewed tomato; season to taste with nut butter 
and salt, and bake. If desired, the lentils may first be cooked 
with onion to flavor. 

Lentil Dressing.— Cook some good lentils with a few slices of 
onion to give them flavor. When tender, rub through a colan- 
der, and add one half as much stewed and strained tomato as 
there is of the lentils; add salt to season and a tablespoonful of 
nut butter to each quart of dressing. This makes an excellent 
dressing for baked potatoes, vegetable roasts, and also for toast. 

Nut Sauce. — Heat a quart of Avater in which a tablespoonful 
of nut butter has been dissolved, to boiling. Thicken with three 
tablespoonfuls of browned flour, add salt to season; cook thor- 
oughly for five or ten minutes, then add one-third cup of hot 



SANITARIUM HEALTH FOODS. 149 

Stewed strained tomato. Beat thoroughly, when it is ready to 
serve. This is excellent as a dressing for toast and for vege- 
tables. 

Nut Butter Sandwiches.— Spread slices of thinly cut graham 
bread with nut butter, and then with chopped dates or figs. 
Finely minced celery is excellent used in the same manner. 

Almond Meal Crems. — Add to the well-beaten whites of two 
eggs one teaspoonful of lemon juice and ten scant tablespoonfuls 
of almond meal. Beat thoroughly together, drop in slightly 
heated gem-irons, and bake ten or fifteen minutes. 

Nut Butter Puffs.— Mix together to an emulsion one heaping 
tablespoonful of nut butter in one cup of soft ice-water ; add the 
yolk of one egg, and beat until full of air bubbles ; then sift in 
slowly, beating thoroughly meanwhile, two cups of whole-wheat 
Hour ; lastly add the well-beaten white of the egg, folding it in 
lightly but completely. Turn into heated irons, and bake. 



NUTTOSE. 

This is a pure product of nuts. It is intended as a 
substitute for meat, which it completely replaces dietet- 
ically, having nearly twice the nutritive value, while it 
furnishes the same elements and in a form much more 
digestible, and wholly free from the objectionable fea- 
tures of meat. Nuttose may be prepared and served 
in the same manner as the various forms of flesh food. 
It so perfectly resembles meat in appearance and flavor, 
as well as nutritive properties, that many persons find 
it difficult to distinguish the difference. The follow- 
ing are a few recipes for the use of this new article 
of food : — 

RECIPES. 

Stewed Nuttose.— Cut the nuttose into pieces not over half 
an inch square ; cover with about equal parts boiling water, and 
cook in a double boiler for two hours or longer. The longer and 
more slowly it is stewed, the more rich is the flavor. A small 



150 EVKKY-DAY DISHES. 

onion, a sprig of parslej% or a few bits of celery may be added 
just long enough before the completion of the cooking to im- 
part their flavor to the stew, if desired. Season with salt, and 
serve hot. 

Stewed Nuttose with Tomato. — Stew the nuttose as directed 
in the preceding recipe. When done, season with salt and a 
cupful of strained stewed tomato to the pint of nuttose. 

Potato Stew with Nuttose. — Prepare and stew the nuttose 
as previously directed. When nearly done, add some thinly 
sliced potatoes, and cook together until the potatoes are tender. 
There should be enough liquor in tlie nuttose so that ad'ditional 
liquid will not be needed for the potatoe.s. Season with salt, 
and serve. 

Nuttose Hash.— Chop cold boiled potatoes and nuttose, equal 
parts. Put into a saucepan just enough of the liquor obtained 
from stewing nuttose to moisten well the chopped foods, heat 
thoroughly, tossing and turning until equally hot throughout, 
and serve. Salt for seasoning should be added to the liquid 
before introducing the chopped foods. A little chopped celery 
may be used with the potato if preferred. The stewed nuttose 
should be served separately. 

Nuttose with Green Vegetables. — Green peas, wax beans, beet 
greens, shelled beans, and tomatoes are all excellent cooked 
with nuttose. Add the nuttose in about the proportion of two 
thick slices of nuttose, cut into small pieces, to one pint of 
shelled peas or one pound of canned peas. Cook together until 
the vegetables are done, and serve without other seasoning than 
a little salt. 

Nuttose Sandwich. — Slices of nuttose placed between thinly 
sliced white or graham bread, biscuit, or wafers, spread with 
nut butter, makes a most excellent sandwich. 

Nuttose with Lettuce. — Thinly slice the nuttose, and cut or 
chop into small pieces. Arrange the lettuce in a salad bowl, 
the larger leaves around the edge, the light ones in the center. 
Fill the center and interstices between the leaves with the pre- 
pared nuttose, cover with any preferred dressing, and serve. 



SANITARIUM HEALTH FOODS. 151 



ZWIEBACK. 

Any one who has ever made a visit to Carlsbad will 
remember the delicious zwieback which occupies so 
conspicuous a place in the bill of fare. Persons suffer- 
ing from acid dyspepsia, constipation, and other dis- 
turbances of digestion, often experience great relief on 
visiting this famous watering-place. The benefits de- 
rived from a sojourn at Carlsbad have usually been 
attributed to the water of its famous springs ; but many 
invalids and medical men have made the discovery that 
zwieback should be credited with the greater part of 
the benefits received. 

At Carlsbad, zwieback is made by exposing the sour 
" Schwartz brodt " to moderate heat for several hours, 
until the starch becomes changed to dextrin and dex- 
trose. For years the Sanitarium Health Food Com- 
pany has manufactured for the use of the numerous 
patrons of the Medical and Surgical Sanitarium, 
Battle Creek, Mich., a superior quality of zwieback, 
which is not only more palatable but much more 
wholesome than the original article of Carlsbad manu- 
facture. Indeed, this zwieback is one of the most 
nutritious, palatable, and digestible of foods, and is 
very largely used by those who have once learned its 
value. With milk or cream it is a real delicacy, as 
toothsome as it is nourishing and easy of digestion. 

Zwieback is supplied in three grades, as follows : — 

No. 1. Made of graham flour (Sanitarium brand), 
containing fifteen per cent, of gluten. 

No. 2. Made from a combination of wheat and rye 



162 EVEBY-DAY DISHES. 

flour. Especially excellent for persons suffering from 
slow digestion and constipation. 

No. 3. Specially prepared for persons suffering from 
acid dyspepsia, with tenderness and painful digestion. 
Very tender and toothsome. 

For recipes, see pages 135 to 188 . 



CARAMELCEREAL. 

It is now generally recognized by physicians that lea 
and coffee are unwholesome beverages. Each contains 
a harmful substance known as caffein or thein, of 
which seven and one-half grains will kill a small ani- 
mal. Many nervous disorders, the origin of which is 
not suspected, are due to the use of tea and coffee. 
Physicians now recognize the "tea-drinkers' disorder" 
as the result of the use of these beverages. Both tea 
and coffee prevent the digestion of starch, and give 
rise to various forms of indigestion. Caramel-cereal 
supplies a harmless and wholesome substitute for tea 
and coffee. It was originated at the Battle Creek 
(Mich.) Sanitarium, where it has long been in use, as 
well as in thousands of families throughout the United 

States. 

RECIPE. 

For each cup of the beverage required, use a dessert-spoonful 
of the caramel-cereal, and steep for from ten to twenty minutes. 
Excellent coffee may be made in five minutes, or even less; but 
the strength and flavor are developed by longer steeping. 



Hints about Every-Day 
Work. 



The constant exercise of thought and much judicious 
planning is required in order to keep in mind and 
wisely carry out all the necessary details of an occu- 
pation so broad in its scope and so varied in its require- 
ments as housekeeping. This comprises the very best 
care of the house and its furnishings, the purchase and 
preparation of the food, and the carrying out of such 
hygienic and sanitary measures as shall best preserve 
the health of the household. All lines of scientific 
education are helpful in conducting this vocation upon 
which so much of health, comfort, and happiness de- 
pends, but some knowledge of chemistry, physiology, 
and hygiene is particularly essential. 

Economy is one of the cardinal principles of success 
in good housekeeping, and consists in making advan- 
tageous use of time, strength, money, and material ; it 
pertains to the littles, — the minutes, the pennies, the 
scraps, — even more than to the large amounts. We 
are apt to recognize the importance of careful consid- 
eration in regard to large outlays, but we let the frag- 
ments of time, money, and material slip through our 
fingers without thought of their value. And this is a 
matter of such common occurrence, and one which it 
requires such every-day vigilance to prevent, that it is 

[153] 



154 EVEBY-DAT WORK. 

well worth our while to study some of the ways in 
which we may avoid waste in housekeeping. 

Economy is largely a relative term ; it is a matter 
which must correspond with surrounding circumstances 
and conditions. Sometimes money or material is really 
of less value than time or health ; and what might in 
one case show the best and most prudent management, 
would in another instance be the poorest kind of 
economy. ' ' Real waste of anything is loss without 
any equivalent gain.-' 

Economizing Time.— All possess an equal 
amount of capital as regards time. There are only 
twenty-four hours of sixty minutes each in any one's 
day ; yet there are those who accomplish far more 
than others in a day, because they squander less time, 
or make more advantageous use of it. 

In order to learn how to economize one's time, it is 
necessary first to take an inventory of the use usually 
made of it. Keeping as careful an account of the ex- 
penditure of time as one does of money will readily serve 
to show the points at which retrenchmenl. may be made. 

"Sorting over " the work to be done and planning 
ahead for its achievement is a great help toward econ- 
omy of time. To take a few minutes the evening pre- 
vious or early in the morning to think over the day's 
work, and formulate some practical plan for its accom- 
plishment, will prevent much of the careless loitering 
on the one hand, and the aimless bustle and flurry on 
the other, by which time is so often wasted. 

In some households time is wasted in superfluous 
work ; in others, it is worse than thrown away in idle 
gossip ; and sometimes an entire day is devoted to little. 



ECONOMIZING TIME. 155 

unimportant things which ought to have been sand- 
wiched in between the larger duties of life. Both time 
and strength are dissipated through want of method. 
Twice the amount of energy is expended by the 
unsystematic worker than would be needed for the 
same work by one who has mastered the art of so 
managing that the different duties of the day overlap 
and fit into each other. 

Without system, one may work almost to the point 
of exhaustion, and yet accomplish almost nothing, and 
then wonder, like the man jumping in and out of a 
bucket all day, "why a body don't get on far when 
he's kept agoing all day." Keeping things in order 
saves a great deal of time. A place for everything 
and everything in its place should be the rule in every 
home. Let shelves, drawers, cupboards, and closets 
each have its own appointed contents, which, when 
used, shall be returned with careful order. It takes 
no more time nor trouble to put things away at first 
in their right place than to lay them aside in some 
wrong place ; while it does take time which soon accu- 
mulates into wasted hours and days to hunt for mislaid 
articles, and "straighten up" disordered receptacles. 

The too common practise of taking what appears the 
easiest course at the moment, letting things go just as 
they happen, till there is a general clearing-up time, is 
in the end a waste of both time and strength. Such 
spasmodic renovations avail but little. Orderly, sys- 
tematic work is the great time-saver in housekeeping, 
as in every other vocation in life. 

A written program, of which the following is sug- 
gestive, of the order in which the regular daily work is 



156 EVERT-DAY WORK. 

to be done, kept where it will serve as a constant re- 
minder, will greatly aid in the establishment of habits 
of method in one's work: — 

DAILY MORNING PROGRAM OF KITCHEN 
WORK. 

1. Make the fire ; fill the tea-kettle and reservoirs. 
Polish the stove, when needed. 

2. Dust the kitchen, which should have been left 
clean and in good order the night before. Wash the 
hands preparatory to breakfast getting, as it is always 
essential to have the hands and finger nails clean before 
handling foods and cooking utensils. 

3. Get breakfast. 

4. Make any preparations for dinner which may re. 
quire early attention, 

5. Wash dishes, including dish-towels ; clean sinks, 
hoppers, and garbage receptacles, if any. 

6. Extras. Under this division may be arranged dif- 
ferent duties for regular days, as, for example, one day 
each week may be devoted to extra cleanuig of cup- 
boards, reservoirs, ovens, etc. ; two other days to wash- 
ing and cleaning the refrigerator, extra scouring of 
utensils and faucets, cleaning of lights, woodwork, 
walls, windows, and cellar, all of which require more 
or less of the housekeeper's attention, though not 
always demanding daily care. 

7. Put the kitchen to rights. This should be done 
after every meal before leaving the kitchen. At the 
close of the day's work, everything should be left in 
perfect order. 



DAILY PBOGBAM. 157 

It is desirable to have the housework so planned 
that work which must be done regularly each week, as 
baking, washing, and ironing, shall have its own ap- 
pointed day arranged as best suits the needs and con- 
venience of the household. There is always a best way 
of performing even the simplest of household details; 
seek out this most advantageous method, and save time 
by employing it. 

Most housekeepers will find it a great saving of time 
and vexation to consider the program of the family 
meals by the week, rather than from day to day, or 
meal to meal. By this is not meant the arrangement 
of a weekly routine dietary, but the planning of a 
week"' 8 meals ahead, at one time. The housekeeper 
can thus more easily arrange her work and her re- 
sources so as to make both ends meet, and can also 
provide a more varied fare; and if changes are needed, 
they can be easily made by substituting one article for 
another, as circumstances may demand. 

Economizing Money. — Economize money by 
purchasing no unnecessary material, and by always 
buying that which will yield the best results, even 
though the first cost may be greater. It is more eco- 
nomical to buy prunes at twenty cents a pound of a 
quality so superior that all can be utilized when they 
are cooked, than to get an inferior quality at ten cents 
a pound, one half of which must needs be thrown 
away because too bitter and wormy to be eaten. 
Sweet prunes are likewise more economical than sour 
ones, even when of equal cost and quality, because 
they require the addition of little or no sugar to make 
them palatable. A low price is not a criterion of econ- 



168 EVERY-DAY WORK. 

omy in the purchase of foods. It is essential to dis- 
tinguish between inferior and cheap products; for ex- 
ample, second- or third-rate eggs or oranges are not 
economical, because they are of an inferior quality; 
while dried peas, beans, and rice are both cheap and 
economical, not only because their first cost is small, 
but because they are usually of good quality and there is 
little or no waste connected with their use, and also be- 
cause they are very nutritious. No food can be con- 
sidered an economical one that is largely deficient in 
nutritive value; thus economical food purchase is not to 
be rated alone by the dollars and cents expended, but 
by the amount of returns in strength, nerve power, 
and muscular energy. 

In the purchase of utensils, cost, utility, and dura- 
bility must all be considered. 

If one has proper facilities for keeping them, it is 
generally conceded as being the best economy to buy 
dry groceries, especially such staples as sugar and flour, 
by the barrel or case, as they may be thus purchased at 
wholesale rates. This plan will, however, necessitate 
careful watching, to see that the material is kept under 
proper conditions, and does not become spoiled. There 
is also this disadvantage, which most housekeepers will 
readily acknowledge, that there is a tendency to make 
more lavish use of any material of which there is an 
abundance on hand. 

Of some dry foods, as the legumes and the various 
cereal preparations, the purchase of a month's supply 
is preferable to buying larger quantities, as the foods 
are thus likely to be fresher, besides the use of a greater 
variety being permitted. 



DAILY PROGRAM. 159 

Perishable fruits and fresh vegetables should be pur- 
chased only as needed. Do not purchase unseasonable 
articles, that is, such as are a rarity on the market, and 
do not make purchases of perishable food material with- 
out first giving due consideration to the stock already 
on hand. It is no economy to purchase some choice 
bit, even though it may be a bargain, which must spoil 
on one's hands before it can be used or else necessitate 
wasting something else to give it a place. 

It is also essential to an economical use of money 
that purchases be planned ahead, calculation being 
made exactly as to how much may be spent for sup- 
plies, and a list prepared of things to be purchased and 
the amount of each needed, before going to market. 
One should also be conversant with the market value 
of the supplies she desires to purchase, that she may 
know when she is getting a fair article at reasonable 
price. 

Strict account should be kept of all expenditures, 
balancing it every month with the portion of the in- 
come which should be devoted to that purpose. If 
the balance is not on the right side, go over the items 
with care, and see how expenses could have been 
reduced. 

It is wisest to make cash payments ; but if bills are 
unavoidable, they should be met by weekly or, at the 
longest, monthly settlements. Longer-time bills not 
only prove troublesome, but wasteful. 

Food economists tell us that the majority of people 
make use of a needless amount of food ; that half or 
more than half of their earnings are spent for food ; 
and that in its selection much material is chosen in 



160 EVERY-DAY WORK. 

which the real nutrients are exceedingly costly, because 
the articles used to furnish them rank so low in nutri- 
tive value that much is consumed for but a little gain. 
Real economy comes only through the use of foods 
containing a proper proportion of the food elements, 
these being obtained at a moderate cost, and prepared 
in such a manner as to bring out their full nutritive 
value. 

Much not only of money but of strength is wasted in 
the use of too great a variety of foods at a single meal. 
We indulge ourselves and our families too nmch in 
what tastes good. 

Economy of Material. — After the exercise of 
economy in the purchase of supplies, there is still to be 
met the problem of their economical use and preserva- 
tion. There are few cooks who make such perfect 
calculations respecting the desires and needs of their 
families as to provide just enough and no more. In 
most homes there will accrue bits of food and ' ' left- 
over " fragments ; nevertheless, scarcely anything need 
be wasted — certainly nothing which was at first well 
cooked. There are ways of utilizing almost every kind 
of cooked food, so that it will be quite as appetizing 
and nutritious as when first prepared. 

All left-over foods, as grains, vegetables, or others 
of a moist character, should be removed to clean dishes 
before being put away. Unless this precaution is ob- 
served, the thin smears and tiny bits about the edges of 
the dish, which become sour and moldy much sooner 
than the larger mass, are apt to spoil the whole. They 
should be set on ice or kept in a cool, suitable place 
until needed, as left-over foods of any kind must be 



ECONOMY OF MATERIAL. 161 

well preserved in order to be again suitable for use. 
Uses of Stale Bread.— If properly made from 
wholesome and nutritious material, and well preserved, 
there are few other foods that can be combined into 
more varied and palatable dishes than left-over bread. 
To msure the perfect preservation of the fragments, the 
loaf itself should receive good care. The receptacle 
used for containing the loaves should be frequently 
washed, scalded, and well dried. Crumbs and frag- 
ments should be kept in a separate receptacle, and as 
thoroughly cared for. It is well, in cutting bread, not 
to slice more than will be needed, and to use one loaf 
before beginning on another. Bread grows stale much 
faster after it is cut. Whole or half slices of bread 
which have become too dry to be palatable may be 
used for making zwieback, directions for the use and 
preparation of which are given on page 150. 

Broken pieces of bread not suitable for zwieback, 
crusts, and trimmings of the loaf make excellent crou- 
tons, a most palatable accompaniment for soups, gruels 
hot milk, etc. To prepare the croutons, cut the frag- 
ments as nearly uniform in size as possible (half inch 
cubes are convenient), and place them on tins in a 
warmmg-oven to dry. Let them become crisply dry 
and lightly browned, but not scorched. They are pref- 
erable to crackers for use in soups, and require so little 
work to prepare, and are so economical withal, that 
one who has once tried them will be likely to keep a 
supply on hand. Crumbs and still smaller fragments 
may be utilized for thickening soups and for various 
dressings and puddings. If bits of bread and crumbs 
accumulate more rapidly than they can be used, they 



162 EVEEY-DAT WOKE, 

may be carefully dried, not browned, in a warming- 
oven, or folded in a clean cloth, spread upon a 
bread-board, and rolled with a rolling-pin until fine. 
Prepared thus, stored in glass fruit-cans, and put away 
in a dry place, they will keep almost indefinitely, and 
are ready for use when needed. For scalloping vege- 
tables of all kinds, these prepared crumbs are excel- 
lent ; they give a fine nutty flavor which fresh crumbs 
do not possess. 

Left-over Grains. — Left-over grains, if well 
kept, may be reheated in a double boiler without the 
addition of water, so as to be quite as palatable as 
when freshly cooked. Small quantities of them may 
also be utilized for preparing various kinds of desserts 
where the ingredients require previous cooking. Rice, 
barley, pearled wheat, and other whole grains may be 
satisfactorily used in soups in which a whole grain is 
required ; oatmeal, rolled oats, corn-meal, grits, etc. , 
with the addition of a little milk and cream, may be 
made into delicious gruels ; they may be also used 
advantageously in the preparation of vegetable soups, 
many of which are even improved by the addition of 
a few spoonfuls of well-kept cooked oatmeal or rolled 
oatSo 

Left-over Vegetables. — Left-over portions of 
most varieties of vegetables can be best utilized for 
soupSo Cold mashed potato may be made into po- 
tato cakes as directed in the chapter on vegetables, 
where also may be found many other recipes suited to 
the use of these left-over foods. 

Left-over Meats. — Most cook-books offer numer- 
ous recipes for croquettes, hashes, and fried dishes pre- 



ECONOMY OF MATERIAL 163 

pared from remnants of meat and fish, which, although 
they serve the purpose of using up the fragments, are 
not truly economical, because they are generally far 
from wholesome. Fragments of this character are 
usually more digestible served cold as a relish or util- 
ized for soups and stews, than compounded into fancy 
dishes. 

Left-over Milk. — Small quantities of unsterilized 
milk or cream left over should always be carefully 
scalded, then cooled at once to a temperature of 60° F., 
and put in a cool place where they will keep sweet and 
fresh until the next meal. 

Waste of Fuel. — It is a common mistake to sup- 
pose that the draft of a stove must be kept open to gain 
greater heat. Only just enough air should be supplied 
to promote combustion. Much fuel is wasted through 
loss of heat from too much draft. A coal fire, when 
well kindled, needs only air enough to keep it burning. 
When the coal becomes red all through, it has parted 
with the most of its heat, and the fire will soon die, 
unless replenished. To keep a steady fire, add but a 
small amount of fuel at a time, and repeat often enough 
to prevent any sensible decrease of the degree of heat. 
Rake the fire from the bottom, and keep it clear of 
ashes and cinders. If a very hot fire is needed, open 
the drafts ; at other times, keep them closed, or par- 
tially so, so as not to waste fuel. There is no economy 
in allowing a fire to get low before fuel is added, for 
the fresh fuel cools the fire to a temperature so low 
that it is not useful, and thus occasions a direct waste 
of fuel in again raising the heat to the proper degree, 
to say nothing of the waste of time and patience. The 



164 EVERY-DAY WORK. 

addition of small quantities of fuel at short intervals, 
so long as continuous heat is needed, is far better than 
to let the fuel burn nearly out, and then add a larger 
quantity. The improper management of the drafts 
and dampers has also much to do with waste of 
fuel. As stoves are generally constructed, in order to 
heat the oven it is necessary for the heat to pass over 
the top, down the back, and under the bottom of the 
oven before escaping into the flue. To force the heat 
to make this circuit, the direct draft of the stove needs 
to be closed. With this precaution observed, a quick 
fire from a small amount of fuel, used before its force 
is spent, will produce better results than a fire-box full 
under other circumstances. 

An item of economy for those who use much coal is 
the careful sifting of cinders from the ashes. They 
can be used to good advantage to put first upon the 
kindlings when building the fire, as they ignite more 
readily than fresh coal, and give a quicker, though 
much less enduring, heat. 

GENERAL SUGGESTIONS FOR ECONOMICAL 
HOUSEWORK. 

Order of Clearing the Table. — Put back the 
chairs, and brush all crumbs from the floor. 

Collect all untouched foods and store them away in 
clean dishes. Kemove the napkins, sending the soiled 
ones to the wash, and putting away those clean enough 
to be used again, care being taken so to designate 
those reserved for future use that each person shall 
receive his own again. 



ECONOMICAL HOUSEWOKK. 165 

Gather the silver, placing it, handles upward, in 
pitchers or other deep dishes of hot water. 

Now in a deep basin placed upon a small tray, col- 
lect all the refuse, carefully emptying and scraping the 
dishes which have contained food as clean as possible, 
that no crumbs or particles of food be introduced into 
the dish-water. 

Pile the dishes as fast as cleaned upon a second tray 
in readiness for washing. It saves much liability of 
breakage in transferring from the dining-room to the 
kitchen, if each kind of soiled dishes be packed by 
itself. 

Wipe carefully, if not needing to be washed, and 
replenish all salts, granola-cups, and sugar-bowls be- 
fore putting away. 

Brush the table-cloth, fold in its creases, also the 
subcover if one be used, and lay both away until again 
needed. 

Washing the Dishes. — Plenty of hot water and 
clean towels are the essential requisites for expeditious 
and thorough dish- washing. A few drops of crude 
ammonia added to the water will soften it, and add to 
the luster of the silver and china. Soap may be used 
according to circumstances; all greasy dishes require a 
good strong suds. If the dishes have not been scraped 
clean, the crumbs should first be rinsed off in a pan of 
tepid water without a dish-cloth, then carefully washed 
in clean hot water. 

There should also be provided two dish-drainers, or 
trays, unless there is a stationary sink with tray on 
which to drain the dishes. For washing glassware and 
fine china, papier-mache tubs are preferable to any- 



1G6 EVERY-DAY WORK. 

tiling else, as they are less liable to occasion breakage 
of the ware. 

If many dishes are to be washed, frequent changes 
of water will be necessary, as the first soon becomes 
either cold or dirty. Perfectly sweet, clean dishes are 
not evolved from dirty dish-water. 

The usual order given for the washing of dishes is : 
glasses, silver, fine china, cups, saucers, pitchers, 
plates, and other dishes. This is, however, based 
upon the supposition that cups and saucers are used for 
beverages, and that plates are soiled by the use of 
various greasy foods ; but in families where tea and 
coffee and animal foods are dispensed with, and saucers 
are used for grains with cream dressing, the plates are 
often cleaner than the saucers, and should be washed 
first. The general rule to be followed is always to 
wash the dishes least soiled first, and all of one kind 
together. 

If for any reason the dishes must wait for a time 
before being washed, the best plan is to pack them 
carefully into large pans, cover with warm water, and 
let them soak. When ready to wash them, prepare 
hot suds for washing, and clear water for rinsing in 
additional pans. Do not use too hot water, as a high 
temperature will break glass, and ' ' check ' ' the enamel 
of ordinary ware. 

All dishes used for milk should be first thoroughly 
rinsed in cold water before being washed in hot water 
or suds. 

Be sure that the inside of all cups and pitchers is 
thoroughly clean. It is a good plan to have a mop 



1 



ECONOMICAL HOUSEWOKK. 167 

made by fastening finger lengths of coarse cotton twine 
to a suitable handle, for washing the inside of pitchers. 

In cleaning forks, spoons, or cups which have been 
employed in eating or beating eggs, rinse them in cold 
water before putting them into hot suds, as hot water 
cooks the egg, and causes it to adhere. Common 
table salt is said to be excellent for removing the tar- 
nish from silver. Clean Dover egg-beaters by beating 
in a dish of cold water or by holding under a stream 
of cold water from the faucet, then carefully rinse and 
wipe perfectly dry. Do not put the upper part of the 
beater into hot water, as it will remove the oil from 
the wheels so that they will not work easily. 

Grain-boilers and mush-kettles should be allowed to 
cool, then filled with cold water and left to soak dur- 
ing the meal hour, when they can be easily cleaned. 

Tin dishes should be washed with hot suds as soon 
as possible after using. 

All tin and iron dishes should be thoroughly dried 
before putting away, to prevent rusting. 

For cleansing iron pots, use soft water and soap or 
washing soda, with a wire dish-cloth or kettle-scraper. 
If the food adheres to the sides, fill with cold water 
and soak. 

Kettles and all dishes placed over a fire should be 
cleaned on the outside as well as the inside. To re- 
move the soot, rub first with pieces of dry paper, and 
afterwards with damp paper, then wash with hot suds 
and a cloth. 

Kettles and saucepans burned on the inside may be 
cleaned by putting a little cold water and ashes in 



168 



EVEBY-DAY WORK. 



them and allowing them to soak on the range imtil 
the water is warm. 

Porcelain and granite ware utensils stained from 
food burning on may be cleaned after soaking for a 
time in a solution of sal-soda, which may be prepared 
by pouring boiling water over the soda in the propor- 
tion of two pints of water to one pound of sal-soda, and 
stirring until dissolved. It may be prepared in quan- 
tity, and stored in a stone jar until needed. 

Wash woodenware and bread-boards with cold water 
and sand soap. In scraping dough from the bread- 
board, always scrape parallel with the grain of the 
wood, and be careful not to roughen the surface. 

Steel knives and forks with ivory or wooden handles 
should not be put into dish-water. Hot water will 
expand the steel, and cause the handles to crack. 
Wipe them thoroughly with the moist dish-cloth, scour 
with Bath brick, and wipe with a dry towel. 

Dish-cloth and Towels. — No dishes or utensils 
can be well cared for without good, clean dish-cloths 
and towels, and plenty of them. An excellent dish- 
cloth may be either knit or crocheted in some solid 
stitch from coarse cotton yarn. Ten or twelve inches 
square is a good size. Several thicknesses of cheese- 
cloth basted together also makes a good dish-cloth, as 
do also pieces of old knitted garments and Turkish 
toweling. If a dish-mop is preferred, it may be made 
as follows : Cut a groove an inch from the end of a 
stick about a foot in length, and of suitable shape for 
a handle; cut a ball of coarse twine into nine-inch 
lengths, and lay around the stick with the middle of 
the strands against the groove ; wind a fine wire or 



ECONOMICAL HOUSEWOEK. 169 

cord around the twine to fasten it in the groove ; then 
shake down the twine, so it will lie all one way like a 
mop, and fasten to the handle by tying a second cord 
around it on the outside. 

Towels for drying dishes should be of three different 
grades, — fine ones without lint for glass, silver, and 
fine china; coarser ones for the ordinary tableware; 
and still another quality for pans, kettles, and other 
kitchen-ware. A convenient size is a yard in length 
and half as wide, with the ends hemmed. As to ma- 
terial, fine-checked linen is usually employed for glass 
and silver towels, and crash for ordinary dishes, while 
for iron and tinware, towels which have become some- 
what worn, or a coarse bag opened and hemmed, may 
be used. Old half-worn table-cloths may be made into 
excellent dish-towels. 

It is of the greatest importance that all dish-cloths, 
mops, and towels be kept perfectly sweet and clean. 
Greasy dish-cloths or sour towels are neither neat nor 
wholesome, and are a most fertile source of germs, 
often breeding disease and death. 

After each dish-washing, the dish-cloth, towels, and 
mops should be thoroughly washed in hot water with 
plenty of soap, well rinsed, and hung to dry either 
upon a line out of doors, or a rack made for the pur- 
pose near the kitchen range. If care is taken to scrape 
the dishes clean before washing, and to change the suds 
as often as it becomes dirty, the towels will not be hard 
to keep clean. Those used during the week should go 
into the wash as regularly as other household articles. 
Cleaning Silver. — If special cleaning is neces- 
sary, try the following : Place the silver in a pan of 



170 EVERY-DAY WOEK. 

hot water, then with a soft cloth, soaped and sprinkled 
with powdered borax, scour the silver well ; afterwards 
rinse with clear cold water, and dry with a clean cloth. 
If a more thorough cleaning is needed, apply moistened 
Spanish whiting with a silver brush and soft flannel, 
afterward polishing with dry whiting and chamois 
skin. Frequent scouring should be avoided by careful 
washing, as too much rubbing wears out plated ware, 
and dulls the best of silver. 

Tinware which has become blackened may be made 
bright again by rubbing with a damp cloth dipped in 
sal-soda. Afterward wipe dry. Sand soap or sapolio 
may be used for the same purpose. 

Brass faucets and copper articles may be cleaned by 
rubbing with whiting wet with aqua ammonia. 

Yellowed ivory handles may be restored to their 
original whiteness by rubbing with sandpaper and 
emery ; mineral soap or pumice-stone may be used for 
the same purpose. 

Trays and japanned goods should never have boiling 
water poured over them, as it will cause the varnish to 
crack and peel. If a tray is badly soiled, wet with a 
sponge moistened in warm water and soap, and rub 
with a dry cloth ; if it looks at all smeary, dust on a 
little flour and rub again. Marks and scratches may 
sometimes be removed by rubbing with a flannel cloth 
dipped in sweet-oil. 

Care of Table Linen. — Stains upon table linen 
made by acids and vinegar may be removed by simply 
washing in clear water ; berry stains are easily taken 
out by pouring boiling water over them ; peach stains 
are best removed by soaking for some time in cold 



ECONOMICAL HOUSEWORK. lYl 

water, and then washing with soap before allowing-'warm 
water to touch them. Chlorin water or a solution of 
ehlorid of lime will remove fruit stains and vegetable 
colors. Coffee stains rubbed with a mixture of warm 
water and the yolk of egg are said to disappear when 
the mixture is washed off with clean warm water. Sour 
buttermilk well rubbed into the material, dried in, and 
afterward washed out in several waters, is said to be 
effectual in removing tea stains. All stains should be 
removed as soon as possible after being made, and 
always before the linen is put into the wash. 

Disposal of Garbage. — The best plan is to 
burn all leavings and table refuse as fast as collected, 
which may be done without smell or smoke by opening 
all the back drafts of the kitchen range, and placing 
them on the hot coals to dry and burn. Some house- 
keepers keep in one end of the sink a wire dish-drainer, 
into which all fruit and vegetable parings are turned. 
If wet, the water quickly drains from them, and they 
are ready to be put into the stove, where a very little 
fire soon reduces them to ashes. All waste products 
which cannot well be burned may be buried at a dis- 
tance from the house, but not too much in one spot, 
and the earth should be carefully covered over after- 
ward. Under no circumstances should refuse be scat- 
tered about on the surface of the ground near the Dack 
door, as heedless people are apt to do. 

If the table refuse must be saved to feed to animals, 
it should be carefully sorted, kept free from all dish- 
water, sour milk, etc. , and used as promptly as possi- 
ble. It is a good plan to have two tightly covered 
waste pails of heavy tin to be used on alternate days. 



172 EVERY-DAY WORK. 

When one is emptied, it should be thoroughly cleaned 
and left to purify in the air and sunshine while the 
other is in use. Any receptacle for waste should be 
entirely emptied and thoroughly disinfected each day 
with boiling suds and an old broom. This is especially 
imperative if the refuse is to be fed to cows, since the 
quality of the milk is more or less affected by that of 
the food. 



EVERY-DAY BILLS OF FARE. 



The menus given below are offered merely as sug- 
gestive of some of the ways the recipes given in these 
pages may be combined into simple and substantial 
meals : — 



BREAKFASTS. 



No. 1. 

Fresh Fruit 

Oatmeal or Wheat with Cream 

Fruit Toast 

Breakfast Rolls 

Graham Bread Baked Apples 

No. 2 (WITHOUT MILK). 

Fresh Fruit 
Browned Rice with Black Rasp- 
berry Sauce 
Poached Egg with Tomato 
Nut Crisps 

No. 3 (WITHOUT MILK). 

Granose Flakes 

Baked or Stewed Fruits 

Crystal Wheat with Grape Sauce 

stewed Nuttose with Tomato 

or Peas 

Sticks 



No. 4 (WITHOUT MILK). 

Fresh Fruit 

Granola Peach, Apple, or Raisin 

Mush 

Whole- Wheat Bread with Nut 

Butter or Gluten Bread 

Relisli 

Sliced Nuttose 

No. 5 (WITHOUT MILK). 

Macaroni or Rice with Lentil Gravy 

Baked Sweet Potato with Tomato 

Sauce 

Beaten Biscuit or Graham 

Crisps with Almonds 



No. 6. 

Fresh Fruit 

Plum Porridge with Zwieback 

Snowflake Toast 
Whole-Wheat Puffs with Prune 
Marmalade 
[173] 



174 



EVERT-DAY WORK. 



No. 1. 

Cream Pea Soup with Croutons 

Macaroni with Tomato 

Boiled Wheat with Cream 

Whole-Wheat Bread with Stewed 

Fruit. 

Rice Cream Pudding 



DINNERS. 

No. 4 (WITHOUT MILK). 

Fruit Soup 

Nuttose Sandwich 

Apple Macaroni 

Browned Wheat with Nut Meal 

Nut Crisps with Fresh Fruit 



No. 2 (WITHOUT MILK). 

Swiss Lentil Soup with Croutons 

Lettuce Salad with Tomato 

Dressing 

Mashed Potato (seasoned with 

Beaten Egg) 

Raised Biscuit 

Graham Crisps with Stewed Fruit 

Prune Dessert 



No. 3. 

Vegetable Oyster Soup 

Stewed Potato Mashed Peas 

Cracked Wheat with Cream 

Corn Puffs Graham Bread 

Stewed Dried Fruit 

Nuts 



No. 5 (WITHOUT MILK). 

Potato Stew with Nuttose 

Green Peas 

Macaroni with Lentil Dressing 

Water Biscuit 

Whole-Wheat Bread 

Apple Pie with Nut Crust 



No. 6. 

Asparagus Soup with Croutons 

Granose Flakes with Poached Egg 

Baked Potato with Brown Sauce 

Split Pea Succotash 

Graham Puffs Cream Crisps 

Fig Pudding 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Air in bread 49 

Almond meal gems 149 

Almond sauce 121 

Apple and strawberry soup.... 101 

Apple dessert 114 

Apple dessert, baked sweet 114 

Apple filling for pie. dried 140 

Apple macaroni 34 

Apple mush, graham 36 

Apple pie, dried 137 

Apple pie, dried, with raisins.. 137 

Apple rose cream.. 114 

Apple sauce, baked 59 

Apple tapioca 118 

Apple toast 135 

Apple with oatmeal 37 

Apples and oranges 60 

Apples, baked 58 

Apples, citron 58 

Apples, dried 61 

Apples, dried, with other dried 

fruit 61 

Apples, grape 115 

Apples, lemon 59 

Apples, sweet, and cranberries 60 
Apples, sweet, to can with 

plums 70 

Apples, to can 70 

Apples, to can with quinces. ... 69 

Apples with apricots 60 

Apples with raisins 59 

Apricot pie, dried 127 

Apricot toast 136 

Apricots with apples 60 

Apricots, dried, and peaches ... 61 

Asparagus and peas 88 

Asparagus points 88 

Asparagus, recipes for 88 

Asparagus soup 101 

Asparagus, stewed 88 

Asparagus toast 88, 136 

Asparagus with cream sauce. . . 88 
Asparagus with egg sauce 88 



PAGK. 

Banana dessert 119 

Banana toast 136 

Bananas, baked 115 

Bananas in sirup 115 

Barley fig pudding. 115 

Barley, pearled, with lemon 

sauce 26 

Barley, pearled, with raisins. . . 36 

Barley, recipes for 26 

Barley soup, cream 103 

Battle Creek Sanitarium 

Health Foods 139 

Bean and potato soup 101 

Bean and tomato soup 98 

Bean gems 53 

Bean pie-crust 135 

Bean soup, baked 97 

Bean soup, black 98, 101 

Bean soup, green 104 

Bean soup, Lima 105 

Beans, baked 74 

Beans, lentils mashed with 76 

Beans, Lima 93 

Beans, mashed 74 

Beans, recipes for 74, 94 

Beans, shelled 94 

Beans, stewed 74 

Beans, stewed Lima 75 

Beans, string 94 

Beet greens 85 

Beet hash 85 

Beet salad 85 

Beets and potatoes 85 

Beets, baked 85 

Beets, boiled 85 

Beets, chopped 85 

Beets, recipes for 85 

Berry filling for pie 141 

Berry toast 136 

Biscuit, beaten 55 

Biscuit, granose 143 

Biscuit, raised 47 

Biscuit, water, with egg 55 

[175] 



176 



INDEX. 



Blackberries, to can 67 

Blackberry mush 26 

Black raspberry sauce 

with browned rice 31 

Blancmange, cocoanut and 

corn-starch 115 

Blancmange, farina 116 

Blancmange, oatmeal 27 

Blueberry sauce 23 

Blueberry soup 100 

Bran stock for soup 98 

Bread, batter, recipes for 51 

Bi-ead, brown, with crystal 

wheat 144 

Bread, care of 40 

Bread custard pudding 119 

Bread, fermented or yeast 35 

Bread, graham 46 

Bread, graham or wheat-meal, 

salt-rising 48 

Bread, lightness of 41 

Bread-making, methods of 40 

Bread, milk in 40 

Bread, milk, with white flour.. 43 

Bread, potato 44 

Bread, pulled . . 44 

Bread, recipes for 43 

Bread rolls 54 

Bread, rye 45 

Bread, salt-rising 45, 48 

Bread, temperature for baking 

41, 50 

Bread, unfermented or aerated 49 

Bread, uses of stale 161 

Bread, Vienna 43 

Uiead, water 43, 44 

Bread, wheat-meal 46 

Bread, wheat-meal, salt-rising. 48 

Bread, whole-wheat 45 

Breads, dough, recipes for 54 

Breads, whole-wheat 42 

Breakfast, grains for 21 

Breakfast rolls 54 

Brown Betty 117 

Brown sauce 94 

Buns, plain 131 

Cabbage and tomatoes 86 

Cabbage, baked 148 

Cabbage, boiled 86 

Cabbage celery 86 

Cabbage, chopped 87 



Cabbage hash 86 

Cabbage, mashed 87 

Cabbage, recipes for 86 

Cabbage salad 86 

Cabbage, stewed 87 

Cake 130 

Cake, cream sponge 132 

Cake, delicate cup 131 

Cake, fruit and nut sponge drop 133 
Cake, general suggestions for. . 130 

Cake, hoe 63 

Cake, layer 133 

Cake, orange 133 

Cake, pineapple 133 

Cake, recipes for 131 

Cake, sponge 132 

Cake, sunshine 132 

Cake, white sponge 133 

Cakes, granose drop 143 

Cakes, potato 82 

Can covers 62 

Caramel-cereal 152 

Caramel-cereal, recipe for 152 

Caramel sauce 121 

Carlsbad 151 

Carrot soup 102 

Carrots 84 

Carrots, boiled 84 

Carrots, stewed 84 

Carrots with egg sauce 84 

Cauliflower 85 

Cauliflower, boiled 85 

Cauliflower, scalloped 86 

Cauliflower, stewed 86 

Cauliflower with egg sauce 86 

Cauliflower with tomato sauce 86 

Celery and potato hash 87 

Celery, cabbage 86 

Celery, potatoes .stewed with. . . 81 

Celery, recipes for 87 

Celery salad 87 

Celery sauce 95 

Celery soup 102 

Celery, stewed 87 

Celery stewed with parsnips ... 84 

Celery toast 136 

Celery with tomato sauce 87 

Cereallne flakes 28 

Cereals, food value of 18 

Cereals, variety in the use of. . . 18 

Cherries, to can 69 

Cherry toast 137 



INDEX. 



1Y7 



Citron apples 58 

Cocoanut and corn-starch 

blancmange 115 

Cocoanut pie 126 

Cocoanut sauce 131 

Corn and lentil soup 99 

Corn and tomatoes, stewed 90 

Corn, baked 93 

Corn dodgers 53 

Corn, green, boiled 93 

Corn, green, stewed 93 

Corn, hulled 28 

Corn-meal cubes 28 

Corn-meal mush 28 

Corn-meal mush with fruit 38 

Corn-meal pie-crust 135 

Corn or maize, recipes for 28 

Corn puffs 52, 53 

Corn pulp, stewed 93 

Corn, recipes for 92 

Corn soup, Irish 101 

Corn soup, canned 102 

Corn soup, green 104 

Corn-starch fruit mold 116 

Corn-starch with raisins 116 

Corn, to hull 28 

Crab-apples, to can 70 

Crackers, fruit 56 

Cranberries 60 

Cranberries and sweet apples . . 60 

Cranberries with raisins 60 

Cranberry pie 127 

Cranberry pudding-sauce 131 

Cream, apple rose 114 

Cream barley soup 103 

Cream crisps 55, 56 

Cream, eggs in Ill 

Cream filling for pie 126 

Cream, gluten 146 

Cream graham rolls 54 

Cream gravy 95 

Cream, hot, with dry toast 137 

Cream, mock 122 

Cream pie 127 

Cream pea soup 103 

Cream pudding, rice 117 

Cream sauce 94 

Cream sauce with asparagus. . . 88 

Cream sauce with macaroni 33 

Cream sauce with parsnips 84 

Cream sauce with poached 

eggs 113 

13 



Cream soup, tomato 106 

Cream sponge cake . . 133 

Cream toast 137 

Cream toast with poached egg 137 

Crisps, cream 55, 56 

Crisps, graham 56 

Crisps, nut 56 

Crisps, sugar 133 

Crystal wheat 144 

Crystal wheat custard pudding 145 
Crystal wheat fruit pudding... 145 

Crystal wheat, recipes for 144 

Cubes, corn-meal 28 

Currant puffs 53 

Custard, boiled 119 

Custard, cup 130 

Custard, farina 120 

Custard, gluten 146 

Custard, granose fruit 142 

Custard pie, simple 129 

Custard pie, sweet apple 139 

Custard pudding, bread 119 

Custard pudding, crystal wheat 145 
Custard, tapioca 120 

Dates with gluten mush 146 

Dates with wheat-meal or gra- 
ham mush 25 

Dessert, apple 114 

Dessert, baked sweet apple 114 

Dessert, banana 119 

Dessert, granose fruit 143 

Dessert, molded granose 143 

Dessert, prune 115 

Desserts and puddings, sauces 

for 121 

Desserts, fruit, recipes for 114 

Desserts of fruit, with grains, 

bread, etc., recipes for 115 

Dish-cloth 168 

Dish- washing 165 

Dodgers, corn 53 

Dressing for grains 31 

Dressing, lentil 148 

Dressing, lentil, with macaroni 34 
Dressing, tomato, with lettuce 

salad 89 

Dressings for grains, recipes for 22 
Dumplings, granose 143 

Egg with water biscuit 55 

Egg sauce 95 



178 



INDEX. 



Egg sauce with asparagus 88 

Egg sauce with carrots 84 

Egg sauce with parsnips 84 

Egg sauce with summer squash 90 

Egg sauce with cauliflower 86 

Egg with granose 143 

Eggs 50,108 

Eggs, how to choose 108 

Eggs in cream Ill 

Eggs in shell 110 

Eggs in sunshine Ill 

Eggs poached in tomatoes Ill 

Eggs, poached or dropped 113 

Eggs, poached, with cream 

sauce 113 

Eggs, poached, with cream toast 137 

Eggs, pumpkin pie without 138 

Eggs, quickly prepared 113 

Eggs, recipes for 110 

Eggs, scrambled 113 

Eggs, scrambled, with tomato. . 112 

Eggs, squash pie without 129 

Eggs, steamed 113 

Eggs, to beat 109 

Expenditures, keeping strict 

account of 159 

Farina 24 

Farina blancmange 116 

Farina custard 120 

Farina fruit mold 117 

Farina, molded 25 

Farina pie 127 

Farina with fig sauce 24 

Farina with fresh fruit 24 

Fig pudding, steamed 130 

Fig sauce with farina 24 

Fig sauce with rice 30 

Flakes, cerealine 28 

Flour, how to select 35 

Flour, to keep 36 

Fruit 57 

Fruit and nut sponge drop cake 133 

Fruit crackers 56 

Fruit custard, granose 143 

Fruit dessert, granose 143 

Fruit, fresh, with farina 24 

Fruit, fresh, with wheat 24 

Fruit loaf 44 

Fruit, mixed, to can 69 

Fruit mush, granola 139 

Fruit mush, oatmeal 26 



Fruit pies 127 

Fruit pudding, crystal wheat.. 145 

Fruit pudding, plain 117 

Fruit pudding, stewed 118 

Fruit, recipes for canning 66 

Fruit, recipes for cooking 58 

Fruit roll . ... 44 

Fruit rolls 55 

Fruit sauce 121 

Fruit sirup, to can 71 

Fruit soup 100 

Fruit soup, sago 100 

Fruit, sugar in 64 

Fruit, suggestions for canning 63 
Fruit, suggestions for cooking. 57 

Fruit, time of cooking . 64 

Fruit with corn-meal mush 28 

Fruits, selecting 63 

Fruits, small 61 

Fruits, small, to can 67 

Fuel, waste of 163 

Garbage, disposal of 171 

Gems, almond meal 149 

Gems, gluten meal 146 

Gems, granola 53 

Gems, rye 52 

Gluten 145 

Gluten and granola mush 140 

Gluten bread relish 147 

Gluten cream 146 

Gluten custard 146 

Gluten gravy 146 

Gluten gruel 145 

Gluten gruel, lemon 146 

Gluten meal gems 146 

Gluten meal gruel 146 

Gluten mush 146 

Gluten mush with dates 146 

Gluten, recipes for 145 

Gluten, tomato 146 

Gooseberries, to can 67 

Graham bread 46 

Graham crisps 56 

Graham gems 52 

Graham grits 25 

Graham puffs 51 

Graham rolls, cream 54 

Grains, directions for cooking 19 

Grains, dressing for 21 

Grains, dressings for 22 

Grains for breakfast 81 



INDEX. 



179 



Grains, left-over 162 

Grains, points to be observed in 

the cooliing of 20 

Grains, preparation of 19 

Grains, storing of 19 

Granola 139 

Granola and gluten mush 140 

Granola crust for pies 140 

Granola fruit mush 139 

Granola gems 53 

Granola with macaroni 33 

Granola mush 139 

Granola mush, grape 140 

Granola' mush, raspberry 139 

Granola peach mush 139 

Granola, recipes for 139 

Granose 141 

Granose biscuit 143 

Granose dessert molded 142 

Granose drop cakes 143 

Granose dumplings 143 

Granose dumplings with nut 

meal 143 

Granoso fruit custard. 142 

Granose fruit dessert 142 

Granoso pudding 1-12 

Granose, recipes for 143 

Granose shortcake 143 

Granose with egg 142 

Grape apples 115 

Grape granola mush 140 

Grape juice, to can 71 

Grape sauce 22 

Grape tart 126 

Grape toast 137 

Grapes, to can. .., 70 

Gravy, gluten 146 

Gravy, lentil, with macaroni ... 34 

Gravy, lentil, with rice 76 

Gravy, pease 95 

Gravy toast 137 

Gravy, tomato 91, 95 

Gravy, tomato cream 95 

Greens, beet 85 

Grits 29 

Grits, graham 35 

Gruel, gluten 145 

Gruel, gluten meal 146 

Gruel, lemon gluten 146 

Hash, beet 85 

Hash, cabbage 86 



Hash, nuttose 150 

Hash, potato 82 

Hash, potato and celery 87 

Hoc cake 53 

Hominy, coarse 29 

Hominy, fine 29 

Housework, suggestions for 
economical 164 

Kornlet with macaroni 34 

Lemon apples 59 

Lemon filling for pie 126, 141 

Lemon gluten gruel 146 

Lemon pudding-sauce 121 

Lemon sauce 22 

Lemon sauce with pearled 

barley 26 

Lemon sirup, to can 73 

Lentil and corn soup 99 

Lentil and parsnip soup 105 

Lentil and tomato soup 148 

Lentil dressing 148 

Lentil dressing with macaroni 34 

Lentil gravy with macaroni 34 

Lentil gravy with rice 76 

Lentil pur6e 75 

Lentil soup 104 

Lentil soup, Swiss 99 

Lentil toast 137 

Lentils mashed with beans 76 

Lentils, savory 76 

Lentils with nuts 148 

Lettuce, recipes for 89 

Lettuce salad with tomato 

dressing 89 

Lettuce with nuttose 150 

Loaf, fruit 44 

Macaroni 33 

Macaroni and tomato soup 99 

Macaroni, apple 34 

Macaroni baked with granola. . 33 

Macaroni, boiled 33 

Macaroni in soups 33 

Macaroni, peach 34 

Macaroni, recipes for 33 

Macaroni, to prepare and cook 32 

Macaroni, to select 32 

Macaroni with cream sauce 33 

Macaroni with kornlet 34 

Macaroni with lentil dressing. . 34 



180 



INDEX. 



Macaroni with lentil gravy 34 

Macaroni with raisins 34 

Macaroni with tomato sauce. . . 33 

Manioca mold, raspberry 119 

Marmalade, prune 62 

Mastication of food 22 

Material, economy of 180 

Meal-getting 17 

Meats, left-over 162 

Milk, left-over 163 

Mold, corn-starch fruit 116 

Mold, farina fruit 117 

Mold, raspberry manioca 119 

Money, economizing 157 

Mush, blackberry 26 

Mush, browned 28 

Mush, corn-meal . 28 

Mush, corn-meal, with fruit 28 

Mush, gluten 146 

Mush, gluten, with dates 146 

Mush, granola 139 

Mush, granola and gluten 140 

Mush, granola fruit 189 

Mush, granola peach 139 

Mush, grape granola 140 

Mush, oatmeal.. 26 

Mush, oatmeal fruit 26 

Mush, peach 26 

Mush, raspberry granola 139 

Mush, rye 31 

Mush, wheat-meal or graham . . 25 
Mush, wheat-meal or graham 

apple 26 

Mush, wheat-meal or graham, 

with dates 25 

Nut butter 147 

Nut butter pie-crust 148 

Nut butter puffs 149 

Nut butter, recipes for 148 

Nut butter sandwiches 149 

Nut crisps 56 

Nut crust 125 

Nut meal 147 

Nut meal, recipes for 148 

Nut meal with granose dump- 
lings 143 

Nut sauce 148 

Nut sticks 56 

Nuts with lentils 148 

Nuttose 149 

Nuttose hash 150 



Nuttose with potato stew 150 

Nuttose sandwich 150 

Nuttose stew 150 

Nuttose, stewed 149 

Nuttose stewed with tomato 150 

Nuttose with green vegetables 150 
Nuttose with lettuce 150 

Oatmeal blancmange 27 

Oatmeal fruit mush 26 

Oatmeal, jellied 27 

Oatmeal mush 26 

Oatmeal porridge 27 

Oatmeal, recipes for 26 

Oatmeal with apple 27 

Oats, rolled 27 

Okra and tomato soup 107 

Okra, tomato with 91 

Omelet, plain 113 

Orange cake 133 

Orange rice 30 

Orange sauce 122 

Oranges and apples 60 

Oyster soup, vegetable 107 

Oyster toast, vegetable 138 

Oysters, vegetable 91 

Oysters, vegetable, scalloped.. 91 
Oysters, vegetable, stewed 93 

Parsnip and lentil soup 105 

Parsnips, baked 83 

Parsnips, boiled 83 

Parsnips, mashed 84 

Parsnips, recipes for 83 

Parsnips stewed with celery ... 84 

Parsnips with cream sauce 84 

Parsnips with egg sauce 84 

Pasta d' Italia 33 

Pastry 133 

Pea and tomato soup 106 

Pea soup, cream 103 

Pea soup, green 104 

Pea soup, green, canned 103 

Pea soup, split 99 

Pea soup, vegetable 99 

Pea succotash, split 74 

Peas and asparagus 88 

Peas, mashed 74 

Peas pur6e 73 

Peas, recipes for 73 

Peas, split, stewed 73 

Peas, stewed 93 



INDEX. 



181 



Peas, sweet, split 73 

Pease gravy 95 

Peach macaroni 34 

Peach mush 26 

Peach mush, granola 139 

Peach sauce 123 

Peach sauce, evaporated 61 

Peach toast 138 

Peaches and dried apricots — 61 

Peaches, rice with 30 

Peaches, to can 67 

Peanut and tomato purSe 76 

Peanuts, coolced 76 

Pears, baked 59 

Pears, dried 61 

Pears, to can 68 

Pie, berry filling for 141 

Pie, cocoanut 136 

Pie, cranberry 127 

Pie, cream 137 

Pie-crust, bean 135 

Pie-crust, corn-meal — 135 

Pie-crust, nut 125 

Pie-crust, nut butter 148 

Pie, custard filling for 140 

Pie, dried apple 137 

Pic, dried apple filling for 140 

Pie, dried apple with raisins. . . 137 

Pie, dried apricot 137 

Pie, farina 127 

Pie, lemon filling for 141 

Pie, prune filling for 140 

Pie, pumpkin 128 

Pie, pumpkin, without eggs... 138 

Pie, simple custard 139 

Pie, squash 139 

Pie, squash without eggs 129 

Pie, sweet-apple custard 139 

Pie, sweet potato 129 

Pies, cream filling for 126 

Pies, fruit 137 

Pies, granola crust for 140 

Pies, paste for .125 

Pies, recipes for 135 

Pies, suggestions for making.. 124 

Pineapple cake 133 

Pineapple tapioca 118 

Pineapples, to can 70 

Plum porridge 26 

Plums, to can 69 

Plums with sweet apples, to can 70 
Porridge, oatmeal 27 



Porridge, plum 26 

Potato and bean soup 101 

Potato and rice soup 105 

Potato bread 44 

Potato hash 83 

Potato hash and celery 87 

Potato pie, sweet 139 

Potato soup 105 

Potato soup, Swiss 106 

Potato stew with nuttose 150 

Potatoes and beets 85 

Potatoes, baked 80 

Potatoes, baked, sweet 83 

Potatoes, boiled 79 

Potatoes, boiled, sweet 83 

Potatoes, broiled 80 

Potatoes, mashed 80 

Potatoes, mashed, sweet 83 

Potatoes, new 81 

Potatoes, recipes for 79 

Potatoes, roasted 79 

Potatoes, scalloped 81 

Potatoes, steamed 79 

Potatoes, stewed 81 

Potatoes stewed with celery — 81 

Potatoes, stuffed 80 

Potatoes, warmed-over 83 

Program of daily work 155 

Program of kitchen work 156 

Prune dessert 115 

Prune filling for pie 140 

Prune marmalade 63 

Prune toast 137 

Prunes 63 

Pudding, apple tapioca 118 

Pudding, barley fig 115 

Pudding, bread custard 119 

Pudding, cracked wheat 116 

Pudding, crystal wheat custard 145 
Pudding, crystal wheat fruit. . . 145 

Pudding, granose 143 

Pudding, pineapple tapioca — 118 

Pudding, plain fruit 117 

Pu dding, rice cream 117 

Pudding, rice with raisins 117 

Pudding-sauce, cranberry 121 

Pudding-sauce, lemon 131 

Pudding-sauce, plain 122 

Pudding, steamed fig 120 

Pudding, stewed fruit 118 

Puffs, corn 53. 53 

Puffs, currant 53 



182 



INDEX. 



Puffs, graham 51, 53 

Puffs, nut butter 149 

Puffs, rye 52 

Puffs, whole- wheat 51 

Pumpkin pie 128 

Pumpltin pie without eggs 128 

Pur^e, lentil 75 

Pur6e, peanut and tomato 76 

Purge, peas 73 

Quinces, baked 59 

Quinces with apples, to can 69 

Radishes, recipes for 89 

Kaisins, stewed 60 

Kaisins with apples 59 

Eaisins with corn-starch 116 

Raisins with cranberries 60 

Raisins with dried apple pie 127 

Raisins with macaroni 34 

Eaisins with pearled barley.. . . 26 

Raisins with rice 30 

Raisins with rice pudding 117 

Raisins with wheat 33 

Raspberries, to can 67 

Raspberry granola mush 139 

Raspberry manioca mold 119 

Raspberry sauce, black 23 

Raspberry sauce, black, with 

browned rice 31 

Rice and potato soup 105 

Rice, boiled 29 

Rice, browned 30 

Rice, browned, with black rasp- 
berry sauce 31 

Rice cream pudding 117 

Rice, orange 80 

Rice pudding with raisins 117 

Rice, recipes for 29 

Rice soup, plain 105 

Rice, steamed 30 

Rice with fig sauce 30 

Rice with lentil gravy 76 

Rice with peaches 30 

Rice with raisins. 30 

Roast, vegetable 144 

Roll, fruit 44 

Rolls 47 

Rolls, breakfast 54 

Rolls, cream, graham 54 

Rolls, French 47 

Rolls, fruit 55 



Rolls, imperial 47 

Russian grenadiers 18 

Rye bread 45 

Rye gems 52 

Rye mush 31 

Eye puffs 52 

Rye, recipes for. . 31 

Eye, rolled 31 

Sago fruit soup 100 

Salad, beet 85 

Salad, cabbage 87 

Salad, celery 87 

Salad, lettuce, with tomato 

dressing 89 

Salad, tomato 91 

Samp 28 

Sandwich, nuttose 150 

Sandwiches, nut butter 149 

Sauce, almond 121 

Sauce, baked apple 59 

Sauce, black raspberry 23 

Sauce, black raspberry, 

with bi'o wned rice 31 

Sauce, blueberry 23 

Sauce, brown 94 

Sauce, caramel 121 

Sauce, celery 95 

Sauce, cocoanut 121 

Sauce, cranberry pudding 121 

Sauce, cream 94 

Sauce, cream, with asparagus 88 
Sauce, cream, with macaroni.. 33 
Sauce, cream, with parsnips — 84 
Sauce, cream, with poached 

eggs 112 

Sauce, egg 95 

Sauce, egg, with asparagus 88 

Sauce, egg, with carrots 84 

Sauce, egg, with cauliflower 86 

Sauce, egg, with parsnips 84 

Sauce, egg, with summer squash 90 

Sauce, evaporated peach 61 

Sauce, fruit 121 

Sauce, grape 22 

Sauce, lemon 22 

Sauce, lemon pudding 121 

Sauce, nut 148 

Sauce, orange 123 

Sauce, peach 122 

Sauce, pearled barley with 

lemon 26 



INDEX. 



183 



Sauce, plain pudding 122 

Sauce, red 122 

Sauce, rice with fig 30 

Sauce, strawberry 23 

Sauce, tomato, witli cauliflower 80 

Sauce, tomato, with celery 87 

Sauce, tomato, with macaroni 33 

Scottish Highlanders 18 

Seeds, leguminous .. 73 

Seeds, leguminous, recipes for 73 

Shortcake, granose 143 

Silver, cleaning 169 

Soup, asparagus 101 

Soup, baked bean 97 

Soup, bean and potato 101 

Soup, bean and tomato 98 

Soup, black bean 98, 101 

Soup, blueberry 100 

Soup, bran stock for 98 

Soup, brown 102 

Soup, canned corn 103 

Soup, canned green pea 102 

Soup, carrot 102 

Soup, celery 102, 103 

Soup, combination 98, 103 

Soup, cream barley 103 

Soup, cream pea 103 

Soup, fruit 100 

Soup, green bean 104 

Soup, green corn 104 

Soup, green pea 104 

Soup, Irish corn 101 

Soup, lentil 104 

Soup, lentil and corn 99 

Soup, lentil and parsnip 105 

Soup, lentil and tomato 148 

Soup, Lima bean 105 

Soup, pea and tomato lOB 

Soup, plain rice 105 

Soup, potato 105 

Soup, potato and rice 105 

Soup, quickly prepared 148 

Soup, sago fruit 100 

Soup, split pea 99 

Soup, strawberry and apple — 101 

Soup, Swiss lentil 99 

Soup, Swiss potato 106 

Soup, tomato and macaroni 99 

Soup, tomato and okra 107 

Soup, tomato cream 106 

Soup, tomato, with vermicelli.. 107 
Soup, vegetable 99, 107 



Soup, vegetable oyster 107 

Soup, vegetable pea 99 

Soups 96 

Soups, recipes for 97 

Soups, with milk and cream, 

recipes for 101 

Soups without milk, recipes for 97 

Spaghetti 32 

Spinach, recipe for S8 

Sponge bread 40 

Squash, baked 90 

Squash, mashed summer 90 

Squash pie 129 

Squash pie without eggs 139 

Squash, recipes for 90 

Squash, steamed 90 

Squash, summer, stewed 90 

Squash, summer, with egg sauce 90 

Sticks 54 

Sticks, nut 56 

Strawberries, to can 66 

Strawberry and apple soup 101 

Strawberry sauce 23 

Succotash 75 

Succotash, pulp 75 

Succotash, split pea 74 

Succotash, summer 93 

Sugar in fruit 64 

Sugar with grains 23 

Table linen, care of 170 

Table, order of clearing 164 

Tapioca, apple 118 

Tapioca custard, 120 

Tapioca, pineapple 118 

Tart, grape 126 

Tart shells, paste for 126 

Temperature for baking bread 41 

Time, economizing 154 

Toast, apple 135 

Toast, apricot 136 

Toast, asparagus 136 

Toast, asparagus on 88 

Toast, banana 136 

Toast, berry 136 

Toast, celery 136 

Toast, cherry 137 

Toast, cream 137 

Toast, cream, with poached egg 137 

Toast, dry, with hot cream 137 

Toast, grape 137 

Toast, gravy 137 



184 



INDEX. 



Toast, lentil 137 

Toast, peach 138 

Toast, prune 137 

Toast, snowflake 138 

Toast, tomato 138 

Toast, vegetable oyster 138 

Toasts 134 

Toasts, recipes for 135 

Tomato and bean soup 98 

Tomato and lentil soup 148 

Tomato and okra soup 107 

Tomato and macaroni soup 99 

Tomato and peanut pur6e 7(5 

Tomato and pea soup 106 

Tomato cream gravy 95 

Tomato cream soup 106 

Tomato dressing with lettuce 

salad 89 

Tomato gluten 146 

Tomato gravy 91, 95 

Tomato salad 91 

Tomato sauce with cauliflower 86 

Tomato sauce with celery 87 

Tomato sauce with macaroni.. 33 
Tomato soup with vermicelli... 107 
Tomato stewed with nuttose . . 150 

Tomato toast 138 

Tomato with okra 91 

Tomato with scrambled egg... 113 

Tomatoes and cabbage 86 

Tomatoes and stewed corn 90 

Tomatoes, eggs poached in Ill 

Tomatoes, recipes for 90 

Tomatoes, scalloped 90 

Tomatoes, stewed 91 

Tomatoes, to can 72 

Towels, care of I68 

Turnips, boiled 83 

Turnips, chopped, 83 

Turnips, mashed 83 

Turnips, recipes for 83 

Turnips, scalloped 83 

Vegetable oyster soup 107 

Vegetable oyster toast 138 

Vegetable oysters, recipes for 91 
Vegetable oysters, scalloped. . . 91 

Vegetable oysters, stowed 93 

Vegetable pea soup 99 



Vegetable roast 144 

Vegetable soup 99, 107 

Vegetables 77 

Vegetables, gravies and sauces 

for 94 

Vegetables, keeping 77 

Vegetables, left-over 163 

Vegetables, green, with nuttose 150 
Vegetables, preparation and 

cooking of 78 

Vegetables, recipes for 79 

Vegetables, to select 77 

Vermicelli 33 

Vermicelli with tomato soup... 107 
Vienna bread 43 

Wheat, boiled 23 

Wheat, browned 24 

Wheat, cracked 33 

Wheat, cracked, pudding 116 

Wheat-meal bread 46 

Wheat-meal or graham apple 

mush 26 

Wheat-meal or graham mush. . 25 
Wheat-meal or graham mush 

with dates 25 

Wheat, molded 24 

Wheat, pearled 23 

Wheat, recipes for 23 

Wheat, rolled 23 

Wheat with fresh fruit 24 

Wheat with raisins 23 

Whole-wheat bread 45 

Whole-wheat puffs 51 

Wine, unfermented, to can 71 

Work, every-day, hints about.. 153 

Yeast 37 

Yeast, boiled potato 39 

Yeast, compressed 37 

Yeast foam 37 

Yeast, hop 39 

Yeast, liquid 37 

Yeast, raw potato 38 

Yeast, recipes for liquid 38 

Yeast, raisin 39 

Yeast, tests for 37 

Zwieback 134, 151 



