
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

^A^^b — 

Chap..—.... Copyright No. 

Shelf.,..B._4.^ 8 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



A CHOICE COLLECTION 



TESTED RECEIPTS 



WITH A CHAPTER ON 



PREPARATION OF FOOD FOR 
THE SICK 



COMPILED B^ 

MISS JENNIE C. BENEDICT 



LOUISVILLE 
JOHN P. MORTON AND COMPANY 




COPIES RECEIVED . 
Li- -s 



A« 






COPYRIGHTED 1897 

BY 

MISS JENNIE C. BENEDICT 



PREFACE. 



In publishing this book the compiler has endeav- 
ored to give only a few choice, thoroughly tested 
receipts in every department of cooking. 

Proceeding upon the maxim that ' ' quality is more 
desirable than quantity," she has eliminated many 
receipts that are good, but not as practical, or else 
very similar to others given, and has chosen only 
those she has found to be the best and prepared in 
the best way. 

The compiler has selected, as nearly as possible, 
those receipts that will be helpful and practical to 
the housekeeper and cook who desires to prepare 
either a simple home luncheon or a more elaborate 
dish for the dinner party ; thus attempting to answer 
to a certain degree the question, ' ' What shall I have 
for the next meal, and how shall I prepare it ? " 

Dainty dishes suitable for the invalid and trays 
for the convalescent patient are included, prepared 
in the most nutritious and yet palatable way. 

She has endeavored to give each receipt in the 
clearest and simplest manner, so that even an ama- 
teur at cooking can use the book with ease, thus 
suiting the needs of all, from the beginner to the 
more experienced housekeeper. 

(3) 



In order to give all the advantage of her experi- 
ence you will find on the back pages of the book the 
addresses of a few firms whose goods she has thor- 
oughly tested and found to be the best in every way, 
and by the using of which she has obtained the best 
results : particularly the Daisy Flour, the Kentucky 
Refining Company's Nonpariel Oil, Fleischmann's 
Compressed Yeast, "Favorite" Cooking Stove for 
Natural Gas, and the Claudine Flour Sifter. 

Jennie C. Benedict. 



INDEX. 



BREAD. page 

Potato Rolls 19 

Plain Rolls 19 

Beaten Biscuit 20 

Corn Muffins 20 

Waffles 20 

SOUPS. 

Consomme 21 

Quick Bouillon 22 

St. Germain Soup 22 

Black Bean Soup 23 

Puree of Asparagus 23 

Tomato Puree 24 

Oyster Bisque 24 

FISH. 

Lobster Timbals 25 

Fish Pudding 26 

Fish Croquettes 26 

Fried Oysters 27 

Oyster en Coquille 27 

Lobster Cutlets 27 

Lobster a la Newburg 28 

Stuffed Lobster 28 

MEATS. 

Roast Fillet of Beef 29 

Broiled Fillets . 29 

Beefsteak in Oyster Blanket 30 

Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton 30 

Stuffed Lamb Chops 31 

Good Stuffing for Turkey or Chicken 31 

(5) 



ENTREES. 

PAGE 

Chicken Croquettes 33 

Supreme of Chicken 33 

Boudins of Chicken 34 

Chicken Klopps with Asparagus 34 

Sweetbread a la Diplomat 34 

Sweetbread a la Victoria 35 

Sweetbread Croquettes 35 

Stuffed Peppers 36 

Pepper Timbals 36 

Eggs a la Turk 37 

Mushrooms a l'Algonquin 37 

SAUCES. 

Lobster Sauce 39 

Allemande Sauce 39 

Bechamel Sauce 39 

Mushroom Sauce 40 

Hollandaise Sauce 40 

Horseradish Sauce 40 

Mayonnaise Dressing No. 1 41 

Mayonnaise Dressing No. 2 (Cooked) 41 

Garibaldi Sauce 41 

Salad Cream 42 

German Dressing 42 

SALADS. 

Chicken Salad 43 

Salad a la Jardine 43 

Egg Salad 43 

Nut and Celery Salad 44 

Frozen Tomato Salad 44 

Tomato Jelly 44 

Orange Salad 44 

Green Grape Salad 45 



INDEX. 7 

DESSERTS. page 

Orange Pudding 47 

English Plum Pudding 47 

Mince Meat Patties 48 

Rice Pudding 48 

Fig Pudding and Sauce 49 

Charlotte Russe 49 

Cabinet Pudding and Sauce 50 

Plain Pastry 50 

Simple Dessert 51 

Bavarian Cream 51 

Wine Jelly 51 

Baked Caramel Custard with Sauce 52 

Pineapple Pudding 52 

Preserves in Half Oranges 53 

Lemon Pie Filling 53 

Cocoanut Pie Filling 53 

CAKES. 

Lady Cake 55 

Layer Cake 55 

Sponge Cake 55 

Angel Food 56 

Hickory Nut Cake 56 

Spice Cake 57 

Pecan Cake 57 

Ginger Bread 57 

Sour Milk Ginger Bread 58 

Crullers 58 

Sand Tarts 58 

Cookies 58 

Fillings for Cakes. 

Ice Cream Filling 59 

Marshmallow and Pineapple Fillings 59 

Plain Caramel Filling 59 

Chocolate Caramel 59 

Prauline Filling 60 

Cream Icing for Angel Food 60 



8 



ICES. PAGE 

Nesselbrode Pudding 6 1 

Plain Vanilla Ice Cream 61 

Frozen Watermelon 62 

Three of a Kind 62 

Orange Ice 63 

Fruit Punch 63 

Hollandaise Ice 63 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Potatoes en Surprise 65 

Parisienne Potatoes 65 

Stuffed Tomatoes 66 

Baked Bananas 66 

Pastry Crullers 66 

Salted Almonds 67 

Fricasseed Oysters with Mushrooms 67 

Chicken with Asparagus Tips . . 67 

Little Pigs in Blankets 68 

Croquettes of French Peas 68 

Stuffed Sweet Potatoes 68 

Egg Nogg 68 

Omelet 69 

Sick room Cookery. 

Toast Water 70 

Rice Water 70 

Barley Water 70 

Egg Water 70 

Peptonized Milk Toast 71 

Flaxseed Tea 71 

Peptonized Milk 71 

Sterilized Milk 72 

Koumiss 72 

Beef Tea with Acid 72 

Mutton Broth 73 



INDEX. 9 

PAGE 

Egg Lemonade 73 

Chicken Broth 73 

Cream Soup 73 

Milk and Egg 74 

Wine Whey 74 

Junket 74 

Rum Punch 74 

Champagne Whey 74 

Peptonized Oysters 75 

Beef Tea 75 

Beef Juice 75 

Creamed Chicken 76 

Oatmeal Gruel 76 

Meat Cure 76 

Creamed Oatmeal 77 

Creamed Eggs 77 

Creamed Calf Brains 77 

Creamed Sweetbreads 77 

Beef Mince 78 

Raw Meat Diet 78 

Apple Soup 78 

Panned Oysters 78 

Flaxseed Lemonade 79 

Orange Ade 79 

Sherry Nogg 79 

Six dainty Menus. 

Dainty Menus for Convalescent Patients 80 

Chapter on Menus. 

Six Dinner Menus 83 

Six Luncheon Menus 86 

Memoranda 89 



RECEIPTS 

In this book which can be used on the chafing dish 

Fried oysters. Any of the sauces. 

Panned oysters. Creamed chicken. 

Fricasseed oysters with Creamed eggs. 

mushrooms. Creamed calf's brains. 

Little pigs in blankets. Creamed sweetbreads. 

Chicken with asparagus. Parisienne potatoes. 



(10) 



COOKING 
And What Can Be Done With It. 



We can not deny that the great question of to-day, for- 
ever spoken by the hearts of the majority of women, is, 
"What am I fitted for, what can I do, and how can I do it ? " 

Possibly many, in the time this paper is being read, will 
ask of themselves anxiously, « < Now has come the time I 
must do something, and what ? " 

There are two considerations that confront us, and pre- 
vent us from choosing wisely and profitably: 

First — We are always striving after something that will 
not affect our social standing in the eyes of our neighbors. 

Second — When considering a branch of work we invari- 
ably scan the completed specimen of some brother artist, 
and are awed by the immensity, forgetting that we are not 
expected to present a rounded act at first, that patience 
and perseverance are the secret of all successes. 

When debating a field of work, never look at your occu- 
pation through your neighbor's eye, for nine chances out of 
ten she doesn't know as much about it as you. 

Do not expect your work to dignify and sustain you until 
you have labored for your work and dignified it. Stand 
out alone, and look it fairly in the face, to learn if you are 
suited to accept and uplift it, and enable it to help you. 
Be willing to accept the beginning without reference to the 
end, and in this is constituted the important subject of our 
talk on cooking and what can be done with it. 

Now, to show how small a beginning in cooking grew to 
a prosperous employment, because earnestly and enthusias- 
tically entered into, I am going to tell you of the venture I 
know most about — my own. 

(") 



12 COOKING AND WHAT CAN BE DONE WITH IT. 

When in September, 1893, I found myself face to face 
with the fact that I must fall into ranks with the great army 
of working women, my thoughts turned at once to cooking. 
Knowing I could make fruit cakes, I began by taking orders 
for them among my friends, and made them in my mother's 
kitchen. In a few weeks work began to increase, and the 
family kitchen became too small a workshop for this occu- 
pation which had been placed in my hands. My fruit cakes 
had gone forth to usher in a larger thing than I expected. 
I found to my surprise that a goodly number demanded of 
me, «< Get you a kitchen and cook for us." 

I was dismayed — I hadn't a cent of capital. I could 
have our large yard to build my workshop on, so I picked up 
my courage and went to a carpenter, stating my case to 
him, telling him I would pay him for his work as soon as I 
earned the money, if he would build me a simple little 
kitchen with a pantry connected, putting up shelves for my 
"tools." He may have discerned energy and courage, or 
he may have tasted my fruit cakes at some time. Any way 
he built the kitchen, and just before Thanksgiving, in 1893, 
I started to work in my plain little shop with no conven- 
iences or embellishments, these to be added as I felt able, 
and I was surprised to see how, little by little, the kitchen 
bloomed forth into pots and pans, all paid for by the occu- 
pation growing larger and larger. 

I sent my circulars all over the city, stating that I would 
take orders from a cup of chocolate to a large reception. 

The Principals of two of our largest schools asked me 
to supply lunches for the children. So steadily the work 
grew, until now I have my cook and man, and have added 
one convenience after another, so that the kitchen is fur- 
nished with all necessary appliances. 

Now I supply my own linen and china for receptions or 
dinners, and furnish trays for the sick. Growing fond of 
my work, I have studied it as a science and an art, and last 
year taught classes in cooking at home and in other cities, 
which I continue this year. 



COOKING AND WHAT CAN BE DONE WITH IT. 1 3 

Now, as the receipts, not only for fruit cakes but for 
all departments in cooking, have been liked, I shall attempt 
my cook book, and by Thanksgiving the last round of the 
ladder of cooking will be climbed — I shall be able to stand 
behind a cook book, it's compiler. All this from fruit cakes 
well done. 

Now I do not mean to prove by this that any one can 
immediately start a kitchen without a cent of capital and 
make it a success. Neither do I mean to imply that when 
the kitchen is started, that is the end ; but I do mean to 
show that the avenue of cooking, as an industry, is open to 
those earnestly looking for a means of livelihood, and who 
still have a womanly love for the homely art of cooking. 

In the story of the kitchen I have also tried to show 
that though capital is not necessary, the constant bearing 
in mind of a high ideal is the motto, < « Every thing attempted 
of the best, nothing attempted that can not be made of 
practical use, and nothing ever attempted which involves 
debts, the paying of which is an uncertainty," should be 
religiously adhered to. 

Remember that nothing is ever gained by scrimping the 
means or materials of cooking in any way. Not a grand 
beginning and a gradual descent to the mediocre ; but a 
more modest attempt with an honest standard which is 
never lowered, is the secret of success in cooking. 

Cooking is an art, because it is capable of unlimited 
growth, because it embraces the study of form and color, 
and most of all because it compels the perfect union of all 
things in its domain. The cook must know just when to 
withhold the grain of pepper or the sprinkle of salt to obtain 
the flavor that dubs him an artist. Nor is this sufficient, 
he must understand the person for whom the meal is pre- 
pared and plan the one for the other, so that they will agree 
as one, and in this subtle combining does cooking become 
an art. And now we have, as it were, only the picture — 
the frame has yet to come. This nectar and ambrosia 



14 COOKING AND WHAT CAN BE DONE WITH IT. 

must be placed before our Lucullus in fit settings. We must 
know his characteristics — must there be cut glass and fine 
linen, or a Sevre service on which to serve the precious 
viands — must we encircle it in flowers, or leave it in severity 
ungarlanded ? 

Cooking is a science, because in the preparing of foods 
we are brought in contact with the laws that govern the 
animal, vegetable, and mineral kingdoms. Chemistry is 
our constant companion. Nor can a cook stop with what is 
already finished. She must be an inventor. She must see 
in a cabbage or turnip such possibilities that will transform 
it from its original state to a dish fit for the gods. 

You probably think I have placed cooking under a 
rather high standard in this "glorious age" when I say 
that cooking is a science, an art, and a philosophy. But 
stop a minute. Did you ever consider that food and the 
preparing of food are the means by which our great social 
engine is supplied with energy ? 

Did you ever consider that food retarded or advanced 
the work of our body and mind, and therefore retarded or 
advanced national progress to a degree by no means small ? 

The great sun gives its energy to the seed below ground, 
which, under his influence, become the vast expanses of 
wood, and by the aid of the same energy that raised it, the 
forest flourishes, falls, and decays, becoming great peat- 
bogs, and finally coal to burst into warmth and flame and 
energy again. Do we consider that power small which gave 
such strength for such a transformation ? 

Shall we despise the power that builds us up, enables 
us to have strength to labor ? 

We started with a little kitchen, we have ended in the 
banquet hall of peoples. Is it not true ? 

It is not the branch of work alone that lifts us to a higher sphere. 
For man may choose the humblest path to find the great is near; 
God gives us all our part to do, and with us lies the right 
To leave our task unbeautified, or mighty in His sight. 



COOKING AND WHAT CAN BE DONE WITH IT. I 5 

In this short time I have tried to show the use of cook- 
ing, the dignity of cooking, and the place of cooking in the 
present day. I have said nothing of its noble past, for 
noble it certainly is. Among its devotees we find the 
greatest of the world — scientists, artists, philosophers, poets, 
and potentates, all have found it a friend. Dumas was also 
a cook, Balzac honored it, and some of our best loved mem- 
ories of the English classics are found to be Charles Lamb's 
"Dissertation upon Roast Pig, " Dickens' delicious concoc- 
tions in "Pickwick Papers," and Thackeray's inimitable 
description of a French chef. Nor have I stepped far 
enough back in the ages, to the time when the feast was 
honored as a religious ceremony, or to the grand old Greeks 
who reverenced that which nourished their bodies, and 
whose women, from the matron to the youngest maid, knew 
the art of cooking. Their feasts we all know were monu- 
ments of magnificence, the legends of which have come 
down to us of to-day. Yet we have found that like any 
truly great object, cooking may own a very simple begin- 
ning, and opens readily its prospects to the one earnestly 
seeking it. 

We have found that cooking may be used as an honor- 
able and practical means of livelihood for those who find that 
now it has become a necessity for them to enter the fields 
of labor. We find this is not its only use ; but that it may 
also teach, and that from this revered and womanly occupa- 
tion we learn, as well as in the more exalted fields of the 
" new woman" sphere. 

We have found that cooking possesses the dignity of an 
art, a science, and of a philosophy, and for its place in this 
age, it is one of the still unseen powers that uplifts and 
enables our great peoples to progress. 



GLOSSARY. 



Saute. — Saute is to fry in as little fat as possible — fry- 
ing is to immerse in hot fat. 

Marinate. — To make salads successfully, the meat, or 
celery, or nuts should be placed in a dish and covered with 
three parts oil and one part vinegar, and a little salt, which 
is to marinate for several hours. Then any of the dressing 
which is not absorbed should be drained off, the salad 
mixed as desired, and the regular dressing poured over it. 

Brown Stock. — To make Brown Stock successfully, 
take a four-pound soup bone, remove some of the meat 
from the bone, and then place the bone in the soup kettle 
with three quarts of cold water and let it boil on the back 
of the stove. Take the soup vegetables with a little parsley 
and two cloves and the meat which you have reserved from 
the soup bone, chop all fine and saute until brown. Pour 
into the boiling kettle and let all boil together slowly five or 
six hours. Remove from the fire, strain through a fine 
sieve, let it cool, and skim off the grease. Put away in a 
cool place and use as desired. 

White Stock. — Take the liquor in which chicken or 
veal has been boiled, remove the meat and season, boil for 
fifteen minutes with a stalk of celery, a slice of onion, two 
slices of carrot, and a bay leaf, and a little salt and pepper. 
Strain and use as White Stock. 

Diluted Egg. — Where egg and crumbs are to be used 
in frying, always dilute one egg with two tablespoonsful of 
water. This will prevent a hard crust from forming on 
any thing that is fried, and will make just a delicate brown. 

Cake. — To obtain the best results in making cake where 
milk and baking powder are to be used, stir into the milk 
the baking powder, and add to the cake the last thing, for 

(16) 



GLOSSARY. 17 

in many cases where the baking powder is put into the 
flour some of it is lost, and the cake is not as light as it 
should be. 

Cake. — In plum puddings, fruit cakes, mince meat, etc., 
where spices and liquor are used, I find it more desirable to 
let the spices stand in the liquor for an hour or more before 
putting into the other ingredients. 

Whipped Cream. — Remember that a pint of cream 
whipped is not a pint of whipped cream. Be careful to 
notice always whether the receipt calls for whipped cream 
or cream whipped. 

Rice. — It is a most satisfactory way to soak rice in cold 
water for an hour or more before using. 



* I find excellent results from using the Claudine sifter 
in bread and cake making. — j. c. b. 

(19) 



BREAD.* 2 

POTATO ROLLS. § 

1 cup flour. 1 cup potatoes (which have been *** 

% cup of lard. put through a potato-ricer. 

1 cup of milk. 2 eggs, well beaten. 

]/ 2 cup of sugar (scant). 1 teaspoonful of salt. ^ 

1 cake of Fleischmann's Compressed Yeast, dissolved in 52 

2 cups of lukewarm water. 

Mix thoroughly the lard, potatoes, sugar, and g> 

salt ; add the eggs, then the milk, and then the Ju 

yeast. Set to rise for two hours ; make into a soft ^ 

dough by adding about a quart of flour, and set to •** 

rise again. Make into rolls or loaf, butter the top, co 

and set to rise again ; bake in a quick oven. tj 



PLAIN ROLLS. *, 

1 pint of milk. 2 tablespoonsful of butter. ^ 

2 tablespoonsful of sugar. 1 teaspoonful of salt. «* 

3 cups of flour for sponge. % cup of lukewarm water. 
% cake of Fleischmann's Compressed Yeast. 

Scald the milk and pour it over the butter, sugar, *• 

and salt. When cold, add the yeast cake dissolved g 

in the lukewarm water, then add the flour to make <Sf 
the sponge ; beat well ; let it rise until light. Then 

add enough flour to knead ; knead well — very thor- <o 

oughly — and set to rise. When light, cut it down, ^s 

shape into rolls, let rise again, and bake in a quick ^ 
oven. 






20 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 

BEATEN BISCUIT. 

i quart of flour. # cup of lard. 

i cup of cold water. y z teaspoonful of salt. 

Add two tablespoonsful of milk with the water 
(to make them brown nicely). Rub the lard well 
into the flour, and add the milky water until you 
have a stiff dough. Work through a biscuit ma- 
chine or beat with an iron until the dough is smooth 
and light. Bake in a moderate oven. 

CORN MUFFINS. 

i pint of meal. x / 2 pint of milk, 

i tablespoonful of lard. 2 eggs. 

1 heaping teaspoon baking % teaspoon of salt. 

powder. 

Beat the eggs separately until very light. Then 
add to the yelks the meal, baking powder, and salt 
sifted together. Then the lard melted, then the 
milk, and when just ready to pour into the hot but- 
tered rings add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff, 
dry froth. 

WAFFLES. 

2 cups of flour. 1 teaspoonful of baking 
Yz teaspoonful of salt. powder (heaping). 

2 eggs, well beaten. 1 yi tablespoonsful melted 

1 cup milk. butter. 

Mix the flour, baking powder, and salt, and sift ; 
then add the well-beaten yelks of two eggs, to which 
has been added the milk, and stir into the dry mixt- 
ure. Add the melted butter, then the whites of the 
two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Then have the 
waffle irons very hot and well greased — pouring off 
any extra grease, leaving only enough to keep batter 
from sticking. 



SOUPS. 



CONSOMME. 

2 lbs. lean beef (from the i small chicken. c? 

round). i small onion. ^ 

2 ounces lean ham. % small carrot. jgj 

2 sprigs parsley. 2 stalks celery. 

2 bay leaves. 2 eggs. i 

6 cloves. A little celery salt. i 
Yz lemon (juice of same). 

Wipe and cut the beef into small pieces ; cut the 
chicken as for fricasseed chicken. Cover with cold JJ 

water and stand on the back of the stove where it ^ 

will slowly heat. Simmer gently for four hours. 5 

Fry out a slice of bacon, add the ham cut in dice, co 

the onion and carrot sliced, saute to a delicate brown ^ 

in two tablespoonsful of butter ; then add this to the ** 

stock with the remainder of the vegetables (cutting 
the celery in pieces) and a little thyme. Let the 
soup simmer for another hour, strain and stand away .2 

to cool. When cold, carefully remove the fat from 
the surface ; put in a kettle over the fire, add the 
whites and shells of two eggs beaten lightly, two 
tablespoonsful of cold water, a little celery salt, and co 

the juice of half a lemon. Let it boil for five ^ 

minutes, take from the fire and skim carefully, and 2 

strain through a cloth. When ready to serve, heat 
again and season with salt and pepper to taste. The 
soup should be perfectly clear, but amber in color. 3 

(21) *-' 



CO 

co 






22 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 

ST. GERMAIN. 

i can peas. Water as much as there is 
% onion. liquor in the can. 

Sprig of parsley. A blade of mace. 

}i teaspoonful of sugar. i teaspoonful salt. 

]/ 2 teaspoonful of pepper. 3 cupsful brown stock. 
A bit of bay leaf. 

Drain and mash the peas, add the water, reserv- 
ing one-half cup of the peas, putting the remainder 
into the stew pan with the onion, bay leaf, parsley, 
mace, sugar, salt, and pepper ; simmer gently for 
half an hour, mash thoroughly, and add the hot 
brown stock. Let it come to the boiling point and 
rub through a sieve. Thicken with one tablespoon- 
ful of butter and one heaping tablespoonful of flour. 
Cook ten minutes and add the whole peas. — Miss 
Farmer. 

QUICK BOUILLON. 

1 tablespoonful butter. ]/ z small onion, sliced. 

1 ]4. lbs. finely chopped 1 stalk celery. 

lean beef (round being l / 2 chicken (bones well 
best). broken). 

4 cloves. 2 slices carrot. 

1 bay leaf. 2 sprigs parsley. 

1 %, pints cold water. 1 egg (white and shell). 

Melt the butter and add the onion, cook until the 
onion is thoroughly browned ; then add the beef (that 
from the round being best) and chicken, celery, 
cloves, carrot, bay leaf, parsley, and cold water. 
Cover the saucepan, and stand on the back of the 
stove where the water will slowly heat. Let it come 
to boiling point, then simmer gently for two hours. 
Strain, return to saucepan and bring to a boil. Beat 



soups. 23 

the white of one egg, add a half cup of cold water 
until thoroughly mixed, crush the shell and add to 
the egg and water, and then to the boiling bouillon ; 
boil four minutes, let it stand one minute to settle, 
and strain through cheese cloth wrung out of cold •* 

water. i£ 

BLACK BEAN. 

1 pint black beans. 1 large soup bone. 

]/ 2 teaspoon ground cin- Several cloves. ^ 

namon. 2 onions, fried. JS 

A little allspice. A few slices of lemon. 

2 tablespoonsful of butter. Salt and pepper to taste. ^ 
y 2 tumbler of sherry wine. Jj{ 

Soak the beans over night. Rinse well and boil 
thoroughly in the morning. When thoroughly wj 

cooked, mash through a colander and add it to soup ^ 

stock made from the soup bone. Add the seasoning £j 

and onions and butter. When ready to serve, add 
three hard boiled eggs sliced. 



5> 
«o 



-2 



PUREE OF ASPARAGUS. 

1 quart white stock. 1 can asparagus. 

1 pint cream. 1 level tablespoon of but- 

1 heaping teaspoonful flour. ter. 

Put a little more than a quart of white stock 
(either chicken or veal broth) on the fire with the 
asparagus and let them boil hard for fifteen minutes, r 

then strain, pressing all the substance from the 
asparagus — reserve the tips of asparagus to serve in j«j 

puree. Thicken the strained stock with the butter 3 

and flour, and just before serving add the cream, 
salt, and pepper. 

Celery, peas, etc. , can be used in the same way. £ 



24 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 

TOMATO PUREE. 

i can tomatoes. i pint brown stock, 

i bay leaf. i sprig parsley, 

i stalk of celery. i teaspoonful of sugar, 

i tablespoonful of butter. Several slices of onion. 

Put the tomatoes into a sauce pan with the brown 
stock, bay leaf, parsley, celery, and sugar ; simmer 
thoroughly ; put the onion and butter into the saute 
pan, and when the onion is thoroughly done — but not 
brown — add a tablespoonful of flour, and put all with 
the tomatoes ; season with salt and pepper. Pass the 
whole through a fine sieve or strainer — heat again 
and serve. 

OYSTER BISQUE. 

i quart of oysters. 4 cups of cream. 

1 slice of onion. 2 stalks of celery. 

2 blades of mace. 1 sprig of parsley. 
A bit of bay leaf. y$ cup of butter. 

]4 cup of flour. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Scald the oysters and the liquor, separate them 
after heating to boiling point, strain liquor through 
cheese cloth, reheat, and thicken with the butter and 
flour. Scald the milk with the other ingredients 
mentioned, remove seasonings, and add the milk to 
the oyster liquor, and then add the oysters. Serve 
hot with whipped cream on top. — Miss Farmer. 



FISH. 



LOBSTER TIMBALS. 



<*> 



2 slices of stale bread. i pound halibut or cod. 

i egg, i yelk. 4 tablespoonsful of rich 

]/ 2 tablespoon onion chopped cream. Jg 

fine. 3 tablespoonsful of butter. 

2 tablespoonsful of flour. 1 tablespoon sherry wine. ^ 

% cup of lobster. Salt and pepper to taste. [£} 

Soak two slices of stale bread in water until soft, ^ 

squeeze until entirely free from water, cook with a 
teaspoonful of butter, beating to the consistency of J* 

india rubber, then cool ; put one pound of halibut or ^ 

cod through a meat chopper, and then pound in a 25 

mortar. Add gradually one-third cup of bread, one eo 

egg, one yelk, and four tablespoonsful of rich cream; ^ 

beat well. Butter timbal molds and spread the bread 5j 

mixture on sides and bottom ; fill with the following 
lobster filling: 

Saute one-half tablespoonful of onion, chopped .2 

very fine, in three tablespoonsful of butter ; add two g 

tablespoonsful of flour, one-half cup of rich cream, 2. 

yelks of two eggs, salt and pepper to taste. When 
this thickens, add a tablespoonful of sherry wine and ^ 

two thirds of a cup of chopped lobster; pour out to 1{J 

cool, fill the center of the timbals, cover with the 2 

fish, and cook in a hot oven in a pan of hot water ; 
serve with lobster sauce. This proportion makes six 
timbals. — Boston Cooking School. Z 

(25) *-■ 



26 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 

FISH PUDDING. 

i pound boiled fish. y 2 cup of cream. 

i y 2 tablespoons of flour. i y 2 teaspoons of salt. 

% teaspoonful of pepper. i teaspoonful lemon juice. 

A little onion juice. 2 eggs. 

Mash the fish thoroughly, then put through a puree 
sieve and add seasonings. Put butter in the sauce 
pan, and when melted add the flour, then the cream, 
then the beaten eggs, stirring until well scalded, not 
thick. Then add the fish, beat well and fill a ring 
mold with the pudding, pressing it well against the 
sides ; set the whole in a pan of water and put in a 
moderate oven for thirty minutes. Remove onto a 
dish and fill in the center with parisienne potatoes, 
making a border of the same outside, and serve with 
rich cream sauce, in which parsley is chopped. — 
Century Cook Book. 

FISH CROQUETTES. 

1 pint boiled fish. y 2 teaspoonful of onion 
yi teaspoonful pepper. juice. 

1 cupful of cream. 1 tablespoonful of butter. 

2 tablespoonsful of flour. Yelks of two eggs and a 
1 teaspoonful salt. little chopped parsley. 

Put the butter into a sauce pan ; when melted add 
the flour, and when thoroughly mixed add the cream, 
then the seasonings, then the beaten yelks of two 
eggs, and then the fish and the parsley. Spread on a 
dish to cool ; make out into croquettes ; to the beaten 
yelk of one egg add two tablespoonsful of water. 
Dip the croquettes first into the stale bread crumbs, 
then in egg, and then in crumbs. Fry in boiling fat. 
Serve with either Bechamel or Hollandaise sauce. 



27 



LOBSTER CUTLETS. 



2 level tablespoonsful of i pint chopped lobster. 

butter. 2 heaping tablespoonsful 
i teaspoonful of salt. of flour. 

l / 2 cup of white stock. Pepper to taste. 

%. cup of cream. i beaten egg. 
i teaspoonful finely chopped Mushrooms and i chopped 

parsley. truffle. 

Melt butter, flour, cream, and stock. Work ?* 

smooth ; add the parsley, egg, lobster, mushrooms, ^ 

and truffle. Cook a few minutes and pour out on a 
platter to get thoroughly cold (the colder the better) ; 2J 

shape into cutlets, dip in bread crumbs, then in <£j 

diluted egg, then in crumbs ; put in frying basket and ^ 

fry in hot lard. 

FRIED OYSTERS. £ 

Take large, select oysters, wash and drain and 5 

wipe. Dip them in the yellow of an egg, diluted c 

with two tablespoonsful of water, then in bread or ^ 

cracker crumbs; put in frying basket and fry in deep, 5j 
hot lard. 

OYSTERS EN COQUILLE. 

42 

2 sets of calf brains. 50 oysters. 5; 

co 

Carefully clean the brains and boil in salt water ; » 7 

scald the oysters in their own liquor until the edges 
curl, and then cut in small pieces. Chop the brains eo 

and mix with the oysters. Take two tablespoonsful s* 

of butter and saute a little finely chopped onion in it, 5 

add to the brains and oysters a little chopped parsley, 
celery salt, salt and pepper. Then add one-half cup 
of cream, two tablespoonsful of stale bread crumbs, 2 



28 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 

and oyster liquor to moisten. Serve in shells or 
bread sticks, with buttered bread crumbs on the top 
of each; put in the oven just long enough to get 
thoroughly hot. 

STUFFED LOBSTER. 

2 pounds lobster meat. i y z cups of cream. 
]4. cup rich white stock. A bit of bay leaf. 

3 tablespoonsful of butter. 3 tablespoonsful of flour. 
Yelks of 2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 
1 teaspoonful of chopped 1 cup of pecan kernels (if 

parsley. desired). 

Season with salt, cayenne, and a little grated nut- 
meg. Scald stock and cream with the bay leaf, remove 
the bay leaf, melt the butter ; then add the flour, 
then cream and stock, and then the seasonings, then 
the yelks slightly beaten, and the lemon juice. When 
sauce is thick, add the lobster and the nuts, and fill 
the shell ; cover with buttered bread crumbs and 
brown in the oven. Serve in a nest of watercress. 



LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. 

1 pint finely chopped lobster. % pint cream. 
Yelks of 3 eggs. y 3 glass of sherry. 

Yz teaspoonful of salt. A little red pepper. 

Put the cream, wine, and beaten yelks together 
in a double boiler and cook, stirring steadily, until 
the sauce thickens. Put in the lobster, let it become 
heated through, season and serve. A larger portion 
of sherry may be used if desired. Be very careful 
to cook this over boiling water, as it curdles very 
easily. 



s 



to 

CO 



MEATS. 



ROAST FILLET. 

The fillet should be plentifully larded and all of 
the sinewy skin and gristle removed from the top, 
and most of the fat from the under side. Then 
place in a baking pan thin slices of larding or pickled g> 

pork, chopped onion, carrot, turnip, and celery ; then [*« 

place the fillet on this. Pour over it a cupful of ^ 

brown stock, salt and pepper, chopped parsley, bay •*• 

leaf, and cloves. Cook in a hot oven for thirty min- to 

utes, basting frequently. When done, drain off the ^ 

gravy and remove grease from the top. Take a 
tablespoonful of butter, add a tablespoonful of flour, 
cook together until they are brown. Add the gravy <2 

and a little brown stock — a cupful in all — stir until ^ 

it boils, add a canful of mushrooms, chopped, and ^ 

let it simmer for five minutes ; then add a little 
Madeira or sherry ; pour round the fillet and serve. w 



BROILED FILLETS. § I 

Select small beef tenderloins, two inches thick ; eo 

lard thoroughly ; let them lay for two hours in a s« 

strong, highly seasoned stock with two tablespoons- *» 

ful of claret ; broil for a few minutes over a hot fire ; 
serve with drawn butter or mushroom sauce. 

o 
u 

3 (29) " 






30 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 



BEEFSTEAK IN OYSTER BLANKET. 

Select a porterhouse steak at least an inch and a 
half thick, remove the bone, wipe off with a wet 
cloth, rub over with lemon. With some of the fat 
which must be trimmed off, grease the wire broiler 
and place the meat in it; broil over a very hot fire at 
first that the surface may be well seared, thus pre- 
venting the escape of juices. After this, turn occa- 
sionally until cooked on both sides; remove to a 
baking pan, cover thoroughly with select oysters, 
placing a little butter here and there all over it. 
Squeeze the juice of half a lemon and place in a hot 
oven; cook until the oysters plump and the edges 
curl ; season with salt and pepper. Serve with melted 
butter, a little lemon juice, and chopped parsley. 

STUFFED SHOULDER OF MUTTON. 

Have the butcher carefully remove the blade from 
the shoulder, and fill the space with a mixture made 
of one cupful of crumbs, one tablespoonful of butter, 
one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one dozen 
oysters, the juice of one lemon, a teaspoonful of salt, 
and one egg;. Sew up the opening, roast in the oven 
with a little water in the pan ; allow fifteen minutes 
to the pound, and baste frequently. More oysters 
may be used, or they may be omitted altogether. A 
stuffing may be made of chopped meat, celery, onion, 
mushrooms, crumbs, egg, and seasoning of salt and 
pepper. — Century Cook Book. 



3i 



STUFFED LAMB CHOPS. 

Put a tablespoonful of butter into a saute pan ; 
when hot, add a tablespoonful of flour ; let the flour 
cook a few minutes, add four tablespoonsful of 
chopped mushrooms, one teaspoonful of parsley, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of pepper. 
Moisten with three tablespoonsful of stock ; mix all 
together and set aside to cool. Have six French 
chops cut one and a half inches thick, then split 
them in half, cutting to the bone ; spread the mixture «, 

between the split chops, press the edges well together, lJJ 



and broil eight minutes. Serve with melted butter 

or Spanish sauce. uj 

GOOD STUFFING FOR TURKEY OR CHICKEN. ^ 

Moisten a cupful of bread crumbs with melted 
butter, season highly with salt, pepper, thyme, q 

chopped parsley, and onion juice. Or, put in a ^ 

sauce pan a tablespoonful of butter and fry in it one «o 

onion chopped fine, then add a cupful of bread 
which has been soaked in water, all of the water 
having been pressed out thoroughly, one-half cupful 
of stock, a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoon each of 
pepper and thyme, one-half cup of celery cut into 9 I 

very small pieces. Stir it until it leaves the sides of 
the pan, then stuff either turkey or chicken. — Ccn- J2 

tury Cook Book 



*z 






ENTREES. 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

i boiled chicken. i can mushrooms. 

% pound stale bread. % pound butter. 

4 eggs. 

Put the chicken and mushrooms through a cro- g> 

quette grinder. Soak the stale bread in a little Jji 

chicken broth and add it to the meat and mushrooms, ^ 

then add the butter and eggs; mix well together and **• 

boil until well cooked; season with salt, pepper, g> 

celery salt, chopped parsley, and a little finely 
chopped onion, and a very little nutmeg. Pour out ^ 

on a platter, and when thoroughly cold, shape, roll 
in bread crumbs, place in a frying basket and fry in ^ 

boiling fat. ^ 

SUPREME OF CHICKEN. 

Breast and wing of a four pound chicken, raw. t: 

Four eggs, two-thirds cup of thick cream. Force g 

the chicken through the meat grinder, beat the eggs <S I 

separately and add, stirring until the mixture is 
smooth ; add the cream, salt, pepper, and a little g> 

celery salt. Butter the timbal molds and line them 
with chopped mushrooms ; fill with the chicken and 
set the molds in a pan of boiling water. Bake about 
thirty minutes in a moderate oven. Serve with 
Bechamel sauce. 

(33) 



*c 



34 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 

BOUDINS OF CHICKEN. 

For every pint of chopped, cooked chicken meat 
take one tablespoonful of butter, two of bread 
crumbs, one-half cup of cream, two whole eggs, one 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to 
taste. Melt the butter and add the bread crumbs; 
stir until well mixed, and add the cream. As soon 
as it is heated, take from the fire, add the chicken, 
seasoning, and the eggs beaten light without sepa- 
rating. Stir all well together, fill the cups or tins 
two-thirds full of mixture, stand in a baking pan half 
full of boiling water, and bake in a moderate oven 
about twenty minutes. 

CHICKEN KLOPPS. 

2 cups finely chopped Unbeaten whites of four 

cold chicken. eggs, 

i teaspoonful of salt. % teaspoon of Paprica. 

Mix the above ingredients thoroughly ; moisten 
the hands with cold water and shape the mixture in 
round balls. Have ready a sauce pan of white stock 
just at the boiling point; carefully put the balls into 
it and poach about five minutes without allowing the 
water to bubble. Serve on rounds of buttered toast 
with a stalk of asparagus in each klopp. Pour around 
them a rich, white sauce. 

SWEETBREAD A LA DIPLOMAT. 

Saute half a tablespoonful of chopped onion in two 
tablespoonsful of butter, add two tablespoonsful of 
flour, half a cup of cream, and half a cup of white 
stock. Season with salt and cayenne. Add the 



ENTREES. 3 5 

yelk of one egg. When it thickens, add one third of 
a cup of mushrooms, chopped fine, two tablespoons- 
ful chopped truffles, trimmings of the sweetbreads, 
and a little chopped parsley. Then add one table- 
spoonful of sherry wine. Let it cool and spread on 
sweetbreads which have been sauted in butter, after 
parboiling. Dip in diluted egg and bread crumbs, 
place in frying basket and fry in very hot fat. Serve 
with Allemande sauce. 

SWEETBREAD A LA VICTORIA. 

Boil two pairs of sweetbreads in salt water with 
a tablespoonful of lemon juice ; drain and cover with 
cold water. When cold, chop fine and add sufficient 
chopped mushrooms to make one pint in all. Melt 
one tablespoonful of butter, add one tablespoonful of g 

flour, salt and pepper to taste. When smooth, add ^ 

slowly a cup of cream. When this thickens, add a ^ 

tablespoonful of lemon juice and a slight grating of «, 

nutmeg, half a teaspoon of finely chopped parsley, § 

one beaten egg, and the sweetbreads and mushrooms. ^ 

Pour out on a dish to cool, make palm shape, roll in 
bread crumbs, diluted egg and bread crumbs, place 
in frying basket and fry in hot lard. Serve with ^ 

Allemande sauce. « 

SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES. ^ 

2 pairs sweetbreads. A few chopped mushrooms, 

i level tablespoonful of i heaping tablespoon of 

butter. flour, salt, pepper, and 

i cup of cream. a little onion juice. 

Parboil the sweetbreads, putting a little lemon 
juice in the water. Throw them into cold water: * 



36 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 

remove the outside skin and membrane. Chop fine 
and measure. Add enough chopped mushrooms to 
make a pint. Melt the butter and add the flour and 
then the cream. When smooth, add the yelk of one 
egg. Season with salt, pepper, and a little onion 
juice, chopped parsley, and celery salt. Then add 
the sweetbreads and mushrooms. Cook a few min- 
utes, turn out to cool, shape, dip in bread crumbs, 
diluted eggs and crumbs, place in a frying basket and 
fry in hot lard. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

Cut off the tops of green peppers and remove the 
seed, parboil them ten minutes, chop the tops fine, 
one tablespoonful of chopped onion and two of fresh 
chopped mushrooms; saute all in two tablespoonsful of 
butter about twelve minutes, add one tablespoon of 
flour, half a cup of brown stock, one tablespoon of 
ground chicken, one-half tablespoon of ground ham, 
and one tablespoon of bread crumbs. Season with 
salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, cool, then stuff 
the peppers, sprinkle with buttered bread crumbs 
and put in the oven to brown; serve with white sauce. 

PEPPER TIMBALS. 

Butter well a tin timbal mold or cup, line with a 
large red pepper from which has been taken the 
seeds (and which has been parboiled, or use the 
canned red pepper), butter them and line with 
chopped mushrooms. Drop into each one a raw egg, 
sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, put into a bak- 
ing pan which is half full of boiling water, and put 
into a hot oven and cook until the egg is thoroughly 
done. Turn out and serve with white sauce. 



ENTREES. 37 



EGGS A LA TURK. 

Brown one chicken liver and one large mushroom 
together in butter one minute. Add a little chopped 
onion, salt and pepper, and a tablespoonful of flour; 
beat until smooth. Then add one tablespoon of 
sherry and enough brown stock to make a sauce — 
about half a cupful — one teaspoonful of lemon 
juice, and a few chopped truffles. Place a poached 
egg, well cooked, on round buttered toast, and serve 
the sauce around it. 

MUSHROOMS A U ALGONQUIN. 

Wash, peel, and remove the stems from large 

selected mushrooms, and then saute in butter ; when J£ 

done, put in a buttered pan, placing on each a large ^ 

oyster ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, place on each 5 

a bit of butter, cook in a hot oven until the oysters «o 
are plump. Serve with drawn butter sauce. 



q 



•2 



f 



SAUCES. 



ALLEMANDE SAUCE. 

Melt two level tablespoonsful of butter, and add 
two heaping tablespoonsful of flour ; when smooth, 
pour on one-half pint of white stock and one-half pint 
of cream; season with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, 
and lemon juice, and then add the beaten yelk of an 
egg- 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

i ]/ 2 cups white stock. i slice of onion. co 

i slice of carrot. i bay leaf. ?o 

i sprig of parsley. % cup of butter. <* 

% cup of flour. i cup of cream. 

Salt and pepper. ^ 

Cook the stock with the onion, carrot, bay leaf, and 5j 

parsley about fifteen minutes, and then strain. Melt °° 

the butter, add the flour, then the stock and cream. 



LOBSTER SAUCE. 8 

2 tablespoonsful of butter. - 2 tablespoonsful of flour. y '- 

1 pint of cream. Yelks of two eggs. 

Season with salt, pepper, and a little sherry ^ 

wine. Melt the butter, then add the flour, then the 2 

cream, then the seasoning, and then the well beaten 
yelks, and when thick add a heaping cup of lobster, 
chopped fine. £ 

(39) - 






40 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

yi cup of butter. yi teaspoon of salt. 

Yelks of 4 uncooked eggs. y^ cup of boiling water, 

i }i tablespoonsful lemon Dash of cayenne, 
juice. 

Fill a bowl with hot water, pour out the water 
and wipe the bowl dry. Put the butter into it and 
beat until soft and creamy ; add the yelks of the 
eggs, one by one, and beat until they are blended 
with the butter. Add the lemon juice, salt, and 
pepper, and beat again until smooth. Then take 
out the spoon and beat the mixture with an egg-beater 
five minutes. Put into a double boiler with boiling 
water. Add to the butter and eggs one-third cup of 
boiling water and cook until the same is as thick as 
mayonnaise, beating constantly with the egg-beater. 
Serve either hot or cold. 



MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

i tablespoonful of butter. i heaping tablespoon of flour. 
24" cup brown stock. y^ cup of cream. 

Season with salt and pepper, and add one cup of 
chopped mushrooms. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Mix two tablespoonsful of grated horseradish 
with one tablespoonful of vinegar and one-fourth 
teaspoonful each of salt and pepper. Mix thoroughly 
and stir in four tablespoonsful of whipped cream, 
stiff. Serve with roast beef or oysters. 



4i 



MAYONNAISE No. J. 



Yelk of i hard boiled egg. i teaspoonful of mustard. 

Salt and pepper to taste. Yelk of i raw egg, well 
]/ z of small bottle olive oil. beaten. 

White of i egg beaten stiff Vinegar to taste, 
and dry. 

Rub the yelk of hard boiled egg through a fine 
sieve until smooth ; add to that the mustard, salt, 
pepper, raw yelk, well beaten. Then add the oil, 
and next the vinegar slowly, lastly the raw white of 

egg- 

MAYONNAISE No. 2 (COOKED). 

Yelks of two eggs, well beaten, four tablespoons- 
ful of vinegar. Boil until thick, and stir in one heap- 
ing tablespoonful of butter or olive oil. When cold, 
add half a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of 
dry mustard, and a little pepper, and a cup of 
whipped cream. ^ 

GARIBALDI SAUCE. 5 

i pound tart apples, pared 4 ounces onions. 

and cored. 1 pound salt. o, 

1 pound ripe tomatoes, y 2 pound best ginger, 5; 

cut fine. ground. 8 

1 pound best layer raisins. 2 ounces garlic. y 
]/z pound peppers bell, ripe but not dried. 

CO 

Chop all ingredients fine, and put in a stone jar, *« 

adding four quarts of best vinegar ; let stand four 2 

weeks, stirring daily. Then boil thirty minutes, strain 
through a colander and then through a sieve, and 
bottle when cold. ?. 



42 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 



SALAD CREAM. 

Mix one-half tablespoonful of mustard and salt 
(each) and one tablespoonful of sugar with one egg, 
slightly beaten. Pour on this three-fourths cup of 
cream and one-fourth cup of scalded vinegar with 
two and a half tablespoonsful melted butter. Cook 
in a double boiler until it thickens slightly. Strain 
and cool. Serve on cold slaw. 



GERMAN DRESSING. 

Beat one-half cup of heavy cream, just beginning 
to sour, with one egg ; beat until stiff. Add three 
tablespoonsful of vinegar and beat again. 



SALADS. 



CHICKEN SALAD. 



Take equal proportions of cold chicken and celery, 
cut not too small. To a quart of chicken and celery 
pour over one-half cup of oil and let it marinate half 
or whole morning, and when ready to serve mix 
with mayonnaise dressing. 



SALAD A LA JARDINE. 

To one pint of ground, boiled chicken, add equal 
parts of asparagus tips, peas, chopped string beans, 
chopped celery, and a few pecan kernels. Mix care- 
fully and pour over it mayonnaise. q 



EGG SALAD. 

Boil the eggs twenty minutes. Peel off the shells 42 

and cut the eggs in half lengthwise. Remove the g 

yelks, put in a bowl and cream. Take two eggs • 

well beaten, half a teaspoonful of dry mustard, three 
tablespoonsful of rich, sweet cream, one tablespoon- ^ 

ful of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper, two table- [JJ 

spoonsful of olive oil, and one and a half table- 5 

spoonsful of vinegar. Boil all until very thick and 
mix with the cooked yelks. Fill the whites, and 
when cold serve with mayonnaise. «J 

(43) *-' 



44 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 

NUT AND CELERY SALAD. 

Mix equal parts of pecans, almonds, English wal- 
nuts, and celery. Marinate in oil and serve with a 
French dressing with a border of curly celery and 
lettuce. 

FROZEN TOMATO SALAD. 

Take one quart can of tomatoes (or the same 
proportion of fresh tomatoes), drain off all the liquor, 
pour over them mayonnaise and a little chopped cel- 
ery, put in a freezer and freeze. Serve in nasturtium 
leaves. 

TOMATO JELLY. 

Cook one-half can of tomatoes for ten minutes, 
with a pinch of soda if very acid. Add half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and rub through a sieve or strainer. 
Pour over it one-fourth box of gelatine which has 
been soaked in one-fourth cup of cold water ; mold, 
and when congealed serve on lettuce with mayon- 
naise dressing. 

ORANGE SALAD. 

Select firm, acid oranges ; cut in half and remove 
all the pulp from the skins. Marinate in two table- 
spoonsful of oil, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, 
and a little salt. Make a dressing with half a cup of 
whipped sour cream, one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, and a little 
cayenne. Remove oranges from the oil, place back 
in the skins, pour over the cream dressing, and serve 
on lettuce leaves. 



45 



GREEN GRAPE SALAD. 

Select firm, acid grapes ; serve in a head of lettuce 
with the cooked mayonnaise, only with a little more 
cream added to it, or with a cream dressing, for 
which mix half a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoon- 
ful of mustard, one-fourth teaspoonful of sugar, one 
egg beaten slightly, two tablespoonsful of oil, three- 
fourths cup of rich cream, and a scant quarter of a 
cup of vinegar. 






DESSERTS. 



ORANGE PUDDING. 

i pint of cream. Whites of 4 eggs — pinch 

y 2 cup of sugar. of salt. 

2 tablespoonsful corn starch. 

Dissolve the corn starch in a little of the cream ; 
put the remaining cream and sugar over the fire in a 
double boiler. When it boils, add the corn starch, 
cook until smooth, then add eggs well beaten. When 
cold, slice six oranges fine, sprinkle with sugar, and 
let them stand for half an hour. Pour over founda- 
tion, and over this pour whipped cream and oranges, 
just before serving. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

Yz pound stale bread ]/ 2 cup wine and brandy 

crumbs. mixed. 

X pound sugar. 1 cup hot milk. 

y z nutmeg, grated. 1 teaspoonful cinnamon. t: 

]/ 2 teaspoonful mace and 4 eggs. g 

ground cloves. y. pound beef suet. q 

1 teaspoonful salt. y pound currants. 

1 y 2 pounds raisins. y, pound citron. ^ 

X pound figs. [Jf 

Soak the stale bread crumbs in one cup of hot *■* 

milk. When cold, add the sugar and yelks of eggs 
beaten stiff, also nutmeg, cinnamon, mace, ground 
cloves, and salt. Chop fine and cream the beef suet j{ 

(47) 



4-0 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 

and add to the mixture with the raisins stoned and 
floured, and the currants, figs, and citron chopped 
fine. Add the wine and brandy, and the whites of 
four eggs beaten stiff. Turn into a buttered mold and 
steam from six to eight hours. — Boston Cooking 
School. 

RICE PUDDING. 

4 tablespoonsful of rice. Milk and cream. 

]4. teaspoonful of salt. 4 tablespoonsful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. ]/ 2 cup of stoned raisins. 

Into a pudding dish holding a quart put the rice, 
which has been well washed and soaked. Fill the 
dish with milk and cream, and add the salt. Put 
into the oven to cook for about half an hour. Add 
the sugar, vanilla, and raisins, and return to the oven 
and cook slowly for two hours or more if necessary. 
If the milk boils down, lift the skin at the side and 
add a little more hot cream. To make the pudding 
creamy it must be cooked very slowly and plenty of 
cream used. Just before serving, spread thickly over 
the top fresh marshmallows. Put in the oven just 
long enough for the marshmallows to swell. Before 
sending to the table, garnish with candied cherries or 
red jelly. Served with whipped or plain cream. 



MINCEMEAT PATTIES. 

Heat pattie shells and mincemeat separately. 
When very hot, fill the shells with the mincemeat 
and serve with frozen whipped cream, flavored with 
brandy. 



DESSERTS. 49 

FIG PUDDING. 

% pound beef suet. i teaspoonful salt. 

2 heaping cups stale bread yi pound figs. 

crumbs. 2 eggs well beaten. 

% cup milk. 1 cup sugar. 

Chop and rub to a cream the beef suet, add the 
raisins finely chopped ; mix thoroughly. To the 
bread crumbs add the well beaten eggs, milk, sugar, 
and salt, and mix all together well. Place in a but- 
tered pudding dish and steam for several hours. 
Serve with a fancy sauce. 

SAUCE FOR SAME. 

Beat the yelks of two eggs until light. Then 
beat the whites of two eggs stiff and add half a cup 
of powdered sugar. Combine the two and add one- 
fourth cup of hot cream and four tablespoonsful 
sherry wine. — Boston Cooking School. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

White of one egg. Sponge lady fingers. 

Yi box gelatine dissolved in 1 cup powdered sugar. 
]/ z pint boiling water. 2 teaspoonsful vanilla. 

Yelks of three eggs. Whip from 1 qt. of cream. 

Beat the white of an egg slightly, put a thin coat- 
ing around a glass bowl, and then line with sponge 
lady fingers. Dissolve the gelatine in boiling water. oa 

When thoroughly dissolved, stir in the sugar, add s£ 

the vanilla and the beaten yelks of three eggs; stir t> 

in the whip from a quart of cream, and when it stif- 
fens some, pour into the bowl lined with sponge 
cakes and garnish the top prettily with whipped cream. *i 



Co 



50 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

i pint of milk. % cup raisins, chopped 
2 tablespoonsful of sugar. citron, currants. 

yi tablespoonful of butter. % teaspoonful of salt. 

2 eggs. i x / z pints stale sponge cake. 

Beat the eggs, sugar, and salt together ; add the 
milk ; sprinkle a pudding mold with cake crumbs, 
then a layer of fruit, then cake crumbs, and continue 
until all is used up. Pour on the custard and let it 
stand two hours, then steam one and a half hours. 

SAUCE FOR SAME. 

i cup of butter. 2 cups powdered sugar. 

yi cup of cream. 

Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar grad- 
ually, and when very light, add the cream. Flavor to 
taste. Cook for a few minutes in a double boiler. 



PLAIN PASTRY. 

\]/ 2 cups flour. }i cup of butter. 

X cup lard. % teaspoonful salt. 

A little ice water. 

Wash the butter, squeeze out all the milk and 
water, flatten it out. Add the salt to the flour and 
cut in the lard with a knife. Moisten it with the 
cold water. Toss on the board, dredged sparingly 
with flour, pat and roll out. Fold in the butter, 
roll out, and repeat folding and rolling several times. 
Cover with cheese cloth and set away in a cool place, 
though never in direct contact with ice. Roll thin 
and bake in a moderate oven. — Boston Cooking School. 



DESSERTS. 51 



SIMPLE DESSERT. 

Lady fingers. Bananas, sliced thin. 

l / 2 cup of sherry wine. 2 heaping tablespoonsful 

Whipped cream. of sugar. 

Line a bowl with lady fingers, fill it half full of 
bananas sliced thin, pour over them about half a 
cup of sherry wine and a heaping tablespoonful of 
sugar, then fill the bowl with whipped cream. 

WINE JELLY. 

4 ounces of sheet gelatine. 1 medium tumbler of lemon 
2 pounds of sugar. juice. 

1 quart of sherry wine. Whites of 3 eggs. 

5 pints of water. 

Pour the water on the gelatine, soak over night, 
and in the morning put all of the ingredients together, 
including the beaten whites and shells of the eggs. 
Boil twenty minutes ; add the thin yellow rind of two 
lemons five minutes before taking off the fire. Strain 
through a canton flannel bag, pouring back the first 
that runs out. Do not squeeze, but let it drip until 
all runs out. Pour in molds and set away to congeal. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. 

]A, box of gelatine. ]4. cup of boiling water. 

Sweeten and flavor to taste. 1 quart of whipped cream. Uj 

Soak the gelatine in the boiling water, sweeten «j 

and flavor to taste ; add one quart of stiff whipped 
cream ; put in molds and set away to congeal, and 
serve with whipped cream. i3 



52 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 

BAKED CARAMEL CUSTARD WITH SAUCE. 

Set a small sauce pan, containing' one-half cup of 
sugar, over the fire and stir the sugar gently. As 
the sugar loses water by evaporation it assumes the 
appearance of flake tapioca, and as the cooking con- 
tinues it changes color, becoming caramel. Care 
must be taken that the caramel does not burn or 
become too dark in color. Scald four cups of milk, 
and add the caramel to the milk very carefully, and 
as soon as the two are well blended, pour the mixt- 
ure onto five eggs slightly beaten ; then add one- 
half teaspoonful of salt and one teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Strain at once into a buttered melon mold, set the 
mold in a pan of hot water and bake in a slow oven 
until the custard is firm. Serve with caramel sauce. 

SAUCE FOR SAME. 

Put one-half cup of sugar into a sauce pan over the 
fire and stir the sugar until it melts and becomes a 
light brown color. Add half a cup of boiling water, 
and allow the liquid to simmer ten minutes. — Miss 
Farmer. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

2 %" cups ot scalded cream. y± cup of sugar. 

l /i cup of corn starch. y 2 can grated pineapple. 

X teaspoonful of salt. Whites of three eggs, 
l 4 cup of cold milk. beaten stiff. 

Mix the corn starch, sugar, salt, and cold milk 
well, and add to the scalded cream in a double 
boiler, stirring constantly until it thickens. Cook 
from ten to fifteen minutes, add the eggs, then pine- 
apple. Mold, congeal, and serve with whipped 
cream. 



DESSERTS. 53 



FILLING FOR LEMON PIES. 

Juice of 2 lemons. 2 cups of sugar. 

2 cups boiling water, 3 tablespoonsful flour. 

1 tablespoonful butter. Yelks of 4 eggs, well beaten. 

Boil all together until very thick. Fill the cooked 
crusts, and use the whites for meringue on top. 



COCOANUT FILLING FOR PIES. 

% cup butter. 2 cups of sugar. 

Yelks of 5 eggs. 1 cup milk. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 1 cup grated cocoanut. 

Flavor with vanilla and cook until thick. When 
cold, fill the cooked pie crusts and cover with merin- 
gue ; put into the oven to brown. 

PRESERVES IN HALF ORANGES. 

Take half of an orange, scoop out all of the pulp, 
cut the edge in points, fill in with preserves — pine- 
apple being prettiest — and serve with whipped cream. 






CAKES. 



WHITE LADY CAKE. 

12 eggs. 3 4- teacups of flour. 

i teacup of butter. 3 teaspoonsful baking pow- 

^ cup of cream. der. 

24- teacups sugar. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until very 
light ; add the whites of eggs beaten stiff, then the 
flour, and then the baking powder stirred in the 
cream. Bake in a solid cake in a moderate oven for 
very nearly one hour. Any desired flavoring may be 
used. 

LAYER CAKE. 

1 cup butter. 6 eggs. 

3 cups flour. 2 heaping teaspoons bak- 

4j cup milk. ing powder. 

2 cups sugar. 

Take only the whites of eggs, beaten stiff. Mix 
as in Lady Cake, and bake in tins in a moderate 
oven. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

12 eggs. 1 level teaspoonful cream 

i-iy cups flour. tartar. 

ijf cups of sugar. 

Beat the yelks of eight eggs with the sugar until ^ 

very light. Beat the whites of twelve eggs with the' <•» 

cream tartar to a stiff froth. Add to the yelks and 
sugar, then add the flour slowly ; flavor to taste, and 
bake in a moderate oven forty minutes. Ju 

(55) 



56 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 



ANGEL FOOD. 

12 eggs, whites beaten stiff. i teaspoonsful cream tar- 
\yi tumblers powdered tar. 

sugar. i tumbler of flour. 

Take the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth 
with the cream of tartar added. Sift the powdered 
sugar into the eggs and cut it in with an egg-beater 
(never stir Angel Food with a spoon). After the 
flour has been sifted five times, sift very slowly into 
the egg and sugar. Add a teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Grease the cake pan very little with butter, lining 
the bottom with unglazed letter paper which has 
been slightly greased. Pour in the cake and bake 
forty minutes. Put a pan of water over it from the 
first. Remove from the oven, invert the pan, and 
let it stand until the cake falls out without being 
disturbed. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 



]/ 2 cup butter. 


i cup granulated sugar. 


3 eggs. 


i cup milk. 


i Yz cups flour. 


i y 2 teaspoons baking pow 


i cup hickory nuts chopped 


der. 


fine. 





Cream the butter and add the sugar gradually. 
Beat the yelks of three eggs light and add to the but- 
ter and sugar with one cup milk. To the flour add 
the baking powder, stir into the batter, add the 
hickory nut meats chopped fine, and the whites of 
two eggs beaten stiff. Bake in a buttered and floured 
pan from forty to fifty minutes, or in small pans. 



CAKES. 57 

PECAN CAKE. 

i pound sugar. i pound flour, 

i pound of butter. 10 eggs. 

yi tumbler of brandy. 2 grated nutmegs. 

1 pound of raisins. % pound of citron. 

1% pounds of pecan kernels. 

Cream the butter and sugar until light. Add the 
eggs beaten separately, then the nutmeg stirred in 
the brandy, then the flour, raisins, citron, and pecan 
kernels. Pour into buttered mold and bake half an 
hour longer than you would a black cake, same size. 

SPICE CAKE. 

1 cup of sugar. % cup of sour milk. 

% cup of butter. 1 teaspoonful of soda. 

z\i cups of flour. 1 tablespoonful ginger. 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon. y 2 teaspoonful of cloves. 

4 eggs. 1 yi pounds raisins (if de- 
yi teaspoonful allspice. sired). 

yi cup of molasses. 

Use only the well beaten yelks of eggs. Bake in 
small pans, or as a solid cake. 

GINGER BREAD. 

1 cup molasses. y£ cup of butter. 

1 %{ teaspoonsful soda. % cup sour milk. 

1 egg. 2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoonsful ginger. % teaspoonful of salt. 

Put the butter and molasses in a sauce pan and 
cook until the boiling point is reached. Remove 
from the fire, add the soda and beat vigorously, then 
add the milk, eggs well beaten, and the remaining 
ingredients mixed and sifted. Bake fifteen minutes 
in buttered pans two-thirds filled with the mixture. S3 

— Miss Farmer. 



CO 



58 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 

SOUR MILK GINGER BREAD. 

i cup molasses. i cup sour milk. 

2 x /i cups flour. i %" teaspoonsf ul soda. 

2 teaspoonsful ginger. y 2 teaspoonful salt. 

% cup melted butter. 

Add the milk to the molasses, mix and sift the 
dry ingredients, combine the two, add butter and 
beat vigorously. Pour into a buttered, shallow pan 
and bake twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 

CRULLERS. 

2 cups of butter. 3^ cups of sugar. 
12 eggs. Flour enough to roll. 

Flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon, roll thin, shape 
and fry in hot fat. 

SAND TARTS. 

1 cup butter. 2 cups sugar. 

3 eggs. Flour enough to roll. 

Roll thin, paint the tops with the white of egg, 
sprinkle over with equal parts of ground cinnamon 
and granulated sugar, and in the center of each place 
one fourth of a blanched almond. Put in floured 
pans and bake in a quick oven. 

COOKIES. 

3 cups sugar. 1 y 2 cups butter. 

6 eggs. 5 pints flour. 

3 teaspoonsful carbonate 
of ammonia. 

Cream the butter and sugar, beat the eggs three 
at a time into it, and then beat well. Add the am- 
monia, and, lastly, flour and roll thin. 



59 



FILLINGS FOR CAKES. 



PLAIN CARAMEL. 

2 cups of sugar. ^ cup of maple syrup. 

Cream to wet thoroughly. i tablespoonful butter. 

Put sugar, syrup, and cream on, and when it boils 
add the butter. Boil it until very thick. Add one 
teaspoonful of vanilla, take from the fire, and beat 
until it begins to sugar. Then pour over the cake. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMEL. 

Same as above, only before it begins to boil add 
one-fourth cake of Baker's chocolate. 



ICE CREAM FILLING. 

3 cups sugar. i cup water. 

3 eggs, whites beaten stiff. i teaspoonful vanilla. 

Boil sugar and water to a candy, pour slowly over 
the beaten whites of three eggs, flavor with vanilla, 
beat until it begins to cream, and pour over the cake. 

MARSHMALLOW AND PINEAPPLE FILLING. 

Take fresh marshmallows, put into the oven to 
soften, spread over the cake with a little chopped, 
candied pineapple, and pour over same the Ice Cream 
Filling given above. {* 






6o ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 



CREAM ICING FOR ANGEL FOOD. 

3 cups of sugar. i cup of cream. 

y 2 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Let it come to a good hard boil, beat hard until 
creamy, and pour over the angel food. 



PRAULINE ICING. 

Make a plain caramel, and when done, add one 
cup of broken pecan kernels just before pouring on 
the cake. 



ICES. 



NESSELBRODE PUDDING. 

i cup of marons. i cup of granulated sugar. 

Yelks of 3 eggs. % pint of cream. 

X pound of candied fruits. ^ can pineapple (drained). 

Take candied fruits and marons and soak them in 
sherry wine. Put sugar on the fire with one fourth 
of a cup of boiling water and boil to a syrup. Beat 
the yelks of eggs until light. Pour on them slowly 
the syrup, stirring all the time. Put on the fire in a 
double boiler and cook until the consistency of thick 
cream. Remove and beat hard until cold. When 
cold, add the cream, the marons pounded, and half a 
teaspoonful of vanilla, and freeze. When nearly 
hard frozen, add the candied fruits, one fourth of a 
pound of raisins, one fourth of a pound of pounded 
almonds, and a glass of sherry wine, and freeze 
hard. Remove the dasher and allow it to stand for 
several hours. — Century Cook Book. 



PLAIN VANILLA CREAM. 

Take one quart of plain, rich cream, season and 
flavor. When half frozen, add one quart of stiff 
whipped cream which has been sweetened and 
flavored. Freeze hard. Pack for an hour before ^ 

using. & 

5 <6i) 






62 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 

TO FREEZE A WATERMELON. 

Take three pints of stiff whipped cream, color 
with Burnett's Green Vegetable Coloring, sweeten 
and flavor with extract of pistachio, put in a freezer 
and freeze very hard. 

Then take a quart of very stiff whipped cream, 
sweeten and flavor with a little sherry wine, put in 
a freezer and freeze hard. 

Then take a quart of stiff whipped cream, sweeten 
and color pink with Burnett's Vegetable Coloring, 
and flavor with strawberry. Put in a freezer and 
freeze hard. 

Take a melon mold and line it with the green, 
then put a layer of the white, and then the pink, 
sprinkled well with Sultana Raisins that have been 
soaked in brandy, making the seeds. Cover with 
the white cream, and then the green ; put a piece of 
buttered letter paper over it and then the tin top. 
Pack in salt and ice, and let stand for several hours. 

THREE OF A KIND. 

Juice of 3 lemons. Juice of 3 oranges. 

Sugar to taste. 3 slices of canned peaches 
2 bananas. or pineapple. 

1 quart of cold water. 

Take the lemon juice, cold water, and sugar, and 
a pint of rich cream — to be added after the lemon 
and water are packed in the freezer. When this 
begins to freeze, add the juice of three oranges, two 
bananas which have been put through a fine sieve, 
and three slices of canned peaches or pineapple put 
through a sieve. Freeze until very hard. Pack and 
serve. 



63 



HOLLANDAISE PUNCH. 

4 cups of water. i y$ cups of sugar. 

Y 3 cup of lemon juice. i can pineapple. 

% cup of brandy. 2 tablespoonsful of gin. 

Cook the water, sugar, and a little grated lemon 
rind fifteen minutes. Add lemon juice and pine- 
apple, cool, strain, and freeze partly, then add the 
liquor and continue freezing. 

ORANGE ICE. 

To four cups of sugar add a quart of water, and 
boil to a thick syrup. Add to this the juice of twelve 
oranges and four lemons, and one quart of cold water. 
Put in a- freezer and freeze. Pineapple or any water 
ice may be made in the same way. 

FRUIT PUNCH. 

Take the same syrup as above ; add one quart of 
sherry, one-half pint of brandy, one-half pint of rum, 
one pound of candied cherries, one-half pound can- 
died pineapple, half a pound of grapes, and the juice 
of six lemons with the extra quart of cold water. 






MISCELLANEOUS. 



POTATOES EN SURPRISE. 

Season one pint of hot mashed potatoes with one 
tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of celery salt, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of pepper, and a few grains of cayenne. 
Add six drops of onion juice, cool slightly, and add 
the yelk of one egg beaten slightly. Shape into 
balls. Make a hole in the center, fill with creamed 
chicken, oysters, or sweatbreads. Close up, dip in 
crumbs, diluted egg and crumbs, and place in a fry- 
ing basket and fry in hot fat. Serve with cream or 
oyster sauce. 

PARISIENNE POTATOES. 

With a French vegetable cutter cut potato balls 
out of peeled raw potatoes ; drop in cold water for 
about half an hour ; put in salted boiling water and 
boil about fifteen minutes, or until tender. Drain 
off the water, and let them stand on the back of the 
range, covered over, until dry. Serve with white 
sauce and chopped parsley. 

LITTLE PIGS IN BLANKETS. 

Select large, plump oysters, or firm pieces of sweet- 
bread which have been parboiled. Wrap them in 
thin slices of fat bacon, pinning with a wooden tooth- 
pick. Broil in a little butter. 

(65) 



CO 
CO 



66 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 

PASTRY CRULLERS. 

i quart flour. 2 cups water. 

2 eggs. 1 tablespoonful of butter. 

Mix the flour and water, then the butter, then 
the beaten eggs and a little salt. Have the cruller 
iron heated thoroughly in boiling lard. Be very 
careful to drain all the lard from the iron, dip into 
some of the batter which you have put into a pint 
cup, being careful not to let the iron touch the bot- 
tom or sides of the cup ; then dip in boiling lard and 
fry to a nice brown ; remove from the iron and heat 
it again. Serve plain this way as a garnish, or 
sprinkle with cinnamon sugar as a cruller. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Take firm, large tomatoes, not too ripe, cut out 
the blossom end and scoop out the inside as clean as 
you can without breaking the skins. Chop fine and 
add equal parts of ground chicken, chopped celery, 
okra, and a few bread crumbs. Season well with 
salt and pepper and a little onion juice. Fill the 
skins, put a piece of butter on top of each, and place 
in a buttered baking dish and bake in a good oven. 

BAKED BANANAS. 

Peel firm bananas and cut lengthwise ; place in a 
baking dish. Slice a lemon very thin, put a layer of 
banana with three slices of lemon, and then a layer 
of banana and three slices of lemon, sprinkled well 
with sugar. Put in the oven to bake. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 67 



FRICASSEED OYSTERS WITH MUSHROOMS. 

30 oysters. i tablespoonful of flour. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. y$ cup mushroom liquor. 

1 cup cream. i teaspoonful of salt — 
Yelks of 2 eggs. little pepper. 

% cup mushrooms, sliced. 

Cook butter and flour together in double boiler. 
Pour on the cream and mushroom liquor, then the 
seasoning, and stir in the beaten yelks of egg very 
slowly. Add the oysters and mushrooms after the 
sauce is thick. Serve in pattie shells or on toast. — 
Christine Terhune Herrick. 



CHICKEN WITH ASPARAGUS TIPS. 

2 cups very tender chicken i tablespoonful of butter. 

breast. ]/ z pint cream. 

1 cup cooked asparagus tips Yelks of 2 hard boiled eggs. 

(fresh or canned). 

Rub the yelks and butter to a paste and add the 
cream. Stir until thoroughly blended. Season with 
salt and pepper ; then lay in the asparagus tips and 
chicken, and cook for a few minutes. 



SALTED ALMONDS. 

Blanch the almonds, wipe dry, place in a frying 
basket, then into Delmonico Cooking Oil, heated to 
the boiling point. When nicely browned, remove 
from the oil, sprinkle salt on them, and let them 
drain. Any other nut can be cooked in the same 
way. 



68 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 



CROQUETTES OF FRENCH PEAS. 

2 tablespoonsful of butter. 2 tablespoonsful of flour. 

1 pint of cream. Yelk of one egg. 

2 cans of peas. Salt, pepper, and celery 
1 teaspoonful onion juice. salt. 

Melt butter and flour together, then add the 
cream and seasonings, and the well beaten yelk of 
egg, and then the peas, which have been put through 
a puree strainer. Pour out onto a platter to cool, roll 
into croquettes, and fry as chicken croquettes. 



EGG NOGG. 

12 eggs. 12 tablespoonsful of sugar. 

12 tablespoonsful best 12 tablespoonsful Jamaica 

whisky. rum. 

Beat the yelks and sugar together until very light; 
then add the liquor slowly, next the whites, beaten 
to a stiff froth, and then one pint and a half of 
cream, whipped. 



STUFFED SWEET POTATOES. 

Select good, firm sweet potatoes, wash well and 
boil until tender. Remove from the fire, cut in half 
lengthwise, take out most of the potato, leaving the 
skin firm enough to stuff. Mash the potato well, 
season with butter, cream, and a little sugar, cinna- 
mon, and sherry wine to taste. Fill the skins with 
the mixture, and put in the oven to brown a little. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 69 



OMELET. 

Experience has taught us that an omelet is the 
most difficult to prepare of all egg dishes. In the 
first place an omelet pan should never be used for 
any thing else. Before using, it is well to rub it with 
dry salt, to be sure it is perfectly smooth ; and it is 
better to make several small omelets than to try to 
make one large one. Break from three to five eggs 
into a bowl, and beat twelve beats ; sprinkle with 
salt and pepper and a few pieces of butter. Have 
the omelet pan hot, and put in just enough butter to 
cover the surface without being too greasy. Pour in 
the egg, and when it begins to cook carefully cut it 
in several places so that the uncooked egg may cook 
evenly. Then take a broad knife and fold it over, 
placing the dish on which the omelet is to be served 
on top the omelet pan ; lift the pan carefully and turn 
out onto the dish. Garnish with parsley. 



70 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 



A FEW SIMPLE DISHES FOR THE SICK. 



TOAST WATER. 

Toast three slices of stale bread to a dark brown, 
but do not burn. Put into a pitcher, pour over them 
one quart boiling water. Cover closely and let stand 
on ice until cold. Strain. If desired, wine and sugar 
may be added. 

RICE WATER. 

Pick over and wash two tablespoonsful of rice. 
Put into a granite sauce pan with one quart boiling 
water. Simmer two hours, when rice should be 
softened and partially dissolved. Strain ; add a salt- 
spoonful of salt. Serve warm or cold. Two table- 
spoonsful of sherry or port may be added if desired. 

BARLEY WATER. 

Wash two ounces (one wineglassful) of pearl 
barley with cold water. Boil five minutes in fresh 
water. Throw both waters away ; pour on two 
quarts of boiling water and boil down to one quart. 
Flavor with thinly cut lemon rind. Add sugar to 
taste. Do not strain unless at the patient's request. 

EGG WATER. 

Stir the whites of two eggs into half a pint of ice 
water without beating the eggs. Add enough salt or 
sugar to make palatable. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 7 I 

FLAXSEED TEA. 

Flaxseed, whole, i ounce White sugar, i ounce. 

( i heaping tablespoonful). Lemon juice, 4 tablespoons- 
Licorice root, ]/ 2 ounce ful. 

(two small sticks). 

Pour on these materials two pints of boiling water. 
Let stand in a hot place four hours and strain off the 
liquor. 

PEPTONIZED MILK (COLD PROCESS). 

In a clean quart bottle put one peptonizing 
powder (extract of pancreas 5 grains, bicarbonate of 
soda 15 grains — or the contents of one peptonizing 
tube — Fairchild), add one teacup of cold water and 
shake well. Add one pint of fresh cold milk and 
shake mixture again. Place on ice. Use when 
required without subjecting to heat. 

PEPTONIZED MILK (WARM PROCESS). 

Mix peptonizing powder with water and milk as 
described above ; place bottle in water only so hot 
that the whole hand can be held in it a minute with- 
out discomfort. Keep the bottle there ten minutes. 
Then put on ice to check further digestion. Do not 
heat long enough to render the milk bitter. 

PEPTONIZED MILK TOAST. 

Over two slices of toast pour one gill of pepton- 
ized milk (cold process), let stand on the back of stove 
thirty minutes, serve warm or strain and serve fluid 
portion alone. Plain, light sponge cake may be 
similarly digested. 



72 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 



KOUMISS. 

Take ordinary beer bottle with shifting cork, put 
in it one pint of milk, one sixth of a cake of Fleisch- 
mann's yeast, or one tablespoonful of fresh lager beer 
yeast (brewer's), one half of a tablespoonful of white 
sugar reduced to a syrup. Shake well and allow it 
to stand in the refrigerator two or three days, when 
it may be used. It will keep there indefinitely if 
laid on its side. Much waste can be saved by pre- 
paring the bottles with ordinary corks wired in 
position, and drawing off the koumiss with a cham- 
pagne tap. 

STERILIZED MILK. 

Put the required amount of milk in clean bottles ; 
if for infants, each bottle holding enough for one 
feeding. Plug the mouths lightly with rubber stop- 
pers, immerse to the shoulders in a kettle of cold 
water. Boil twenty minutes, or better, steam thirty 
minutes in ordinary steamer. Push in the stoppers 
firmly, cool the bottles rapidly, and keep in a refrig- 
erator. Warm each bottle just before using. 

BEEF TEA WITH ACID. 

One and one-half pounds of beef from the round, 
cut in small pieces ; same quantity ice broken small. 
Let it stand in a deep vessel twelve hours ; strain 
thoroughly and forcibly through a coarse towel. 
Boil quickly ten minutes in a porcelain vessel. Let 
cool. Add one-half teaspoonful of acid, or acid 
phosphate, to a pint. Serve hot or cold. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 73 



MUTTON BROTH. 

Lean loin of mutton, one and one-half pounds, 
including bone. Three pints of water. Boil gently 
until tender, throwing in a little salt and onion, 
according to taste. Pour out broth into basin ; when 
cold, skim off the fat. Warm up when wanted. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Chop up a small chicken, or half of a large fowl. 
Boil it, bones and all, with a blade of mace, a sprig 
of parsley, a tablespoonful of rice, and a crust of 
bread in one quart of water, for an hour, skimming 
it from time to time. Strain through a colander. 

CREAM SOUP. 

Take one quart of good stock, chicken or mutton ; 
cut one onion into quarters, slice three potatoes 
very thin and put into the stock with a small piece 
of mace. Boil gently for an hour. Then strain out 
the onion and mace. The potatoes should by this 
time have dissolved in the stock. Add one pint of 
milk, a very little corn flower to make it about as 
thick as cream, and a little butter. This soup may 
be made with milk instead of stock, if a little cream 
is used with it. 

EGG LEMONADE. 

Beat one egg with one tablespoonful of sugar 
until very light ; stir in three tablespoonsful cold 
water and the juice of a small lemon. Fill the glass 
with pounded ice and drink through a straw. 



74 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 

WINE WHEY. 

Put two pints of new milk in a sauce pan and 
stir over a clear fire until nearly boiling. Then add 
one gill (two wineglassfuls) of sherry and simmer a 
quarter of an hour, skimming off the curd as it rises. 
Add one tablespoonful more of sherry and skim 
again for a few minutes. Strain through coarse 
muslin. May use two tablespoonsful of lemon juice 
instead of wine if desired. 

JUNKET. 

Take one-half pint of fresh milk, heated luke- 
warm. Add one teaspoonful essence of pepsin and 
stir just enough to mix. Pour into custard cups and 
let it stand until firmly curded. Serve plain or with 
sugar and grated nutmeg. May add sherry. 

MILK AND EGG. 

Beat milk with salt to taste. Beat white of egg 
until stiff. Add egg to milk and stir. 

RUM PUNCH. 

White sugar two teaspoonsful, one egg beaten 
up. Add a large wineglassful warm milk, two to four 
teaspoonsful Jamaica rum, and a little nutmeg. 

CHAMPAGNE WHEY. 

Boil one-half pint milk. Strain through cheese 
cloth and add one wineglass of champagne. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 75 



PEPTONIZED OYSTERS. 



Mince six large or twelve small oysters. Add to 
them, in their own liquor, five grains extract of pan- 
creas with fifteen grains bicarbonate of soda, or one 
Fairchild peptonizing tube. The mixture is then 
brought to a blood heat and maintained, with occa- 
sional stirring, at that temperature thirty minutes, 
when one pint of milk is added and the temperature 
kept up ten to twenty minutes. Finally the mass is 
brought to a boiling point ; strain and serve. Gela- 
tine may be added and the mixture served cold as 
a jelly. Cooked tomatoes, onions, celery, or other 
flavoring suited to individual tastes may be added at 
the beginning of artificial digestion. 

BEEF TEA. 

Free a pound of lean beef from fat, tendon, car- 
tilage, bone, and vessels ; chop up fine, put into a 
pint of cold water for two hours. Simmer on the 
stove three hours, but do not boil. Make up for 
the water lost by adding cold water so that a pint of 
beef tea represents one pound of beef. Press the 
beef very carefully, and strain. 

BEEF JUICE. 

Cut a thin, juicy steak into pieces about one and 
one-half inches square. Sear separately one and 
one-half minutes, on each side, over a hot fire. 
Squeeze in a hot lemon squeezer, flavor with salt 
and pepper. May add to milk, or pour on toast. 



76 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 



MEAT CURE. 

Procure slices of steak from the top of the round 
without fat. Cut meat into strips, removing all fat, 
gristle, etc., with a knife. Put meat through mincer 
at least twice. Then beat it well in a roomy sauce 
pan with cold water or skimmed beef tea, to the 
consistency of cream. The right proportion is one 
teaspoonful of liquid to eight of pulp. Add black 
pepper and salt to taste. Stir the mince briskly with 
a wooden spoon the whole time it is cooking, over a 
slow fire, or on the cool part of cupboard range, until 
hot through and through and the red color disap- 
pears. This requires one and one-half hours. 
When done it should be a soft, stiff, smooth puree, 
of the consistency of good paste. Serve hot. Add 
for the first few meals a softly poached white of an 
egg- 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 

One half a cup of coarse oatmeal, three cups boil- 
ing water, one teaspoonful of salt, and cream. Add 
oatmeal and salt to boiling water, and cook three 
hours in a double boiler. Force through a strainer, 
dilute with cream, reheat and strain a second time. 
Serve with salt or sugar. 

CREAMED CHICKEN. 

One tablespoonful of butter and one of flour, and 
add to that half a pint of cream, a little salt, pepper, 
and celery salt and the meat from half a chicken 
which has been put through the meat grinder. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 77 



CREAMED EGGS. 

Y, glassful of chicken 4 eggs. 

stock. y 2 teaspoonful of salt. 

Y glassful of cream. Pepper to taste. 

Heat together the cream and the stock in a double 
boiler. Beat the eggs without separating, and stir 
into it slowly. Stir until thick, season and serve. 
This is the most nourishing preparation of eggs for an 
invalid. 

CREAMED CALF BRAINS. 

Parboil the brains. Blanch them and cut into 
small pieces. Put into a double boiler one table- 
spoonful of butter and a scant one of flour. Add 
half a pint of cream. Put in slowly the beaten yelk 
of one egg, stirring constantly. Season with salt and 
pepper, add the brains, cook three minutes, and serve 
on toast. 

CREAMED OATMEAL. 

Boil oatmeal as for breakfast, rub it through a 
fine sieve, add a little cream, and cook very slowly in 
a double boiler for half an hour longer. When per- 
fectly smooth, add a very little salt and rich cream. 

This the most delicate preparation of oatmeal 
that an invalid can take. 



CREAMED SWEETBREADS. 

Make sauce as for creamed chicken. Add par- 
boiled sweetbreads chopped very fine and a table- 
spoonful of sherry wine. 

6 



78 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 

APPLE SOUP. 

Two cups of raw apple, two cups of water, two 
teaspoonsful of corn starch, one and a half table- 
spoonsful of sugar, one saltspoonful of cinnamon, 
and a bit of salt. Stew the apple in the water until 
it is very soft. Then mix together in a smooth paste 
the corn starch, sugar, salt, and cinnamon with a 
little cold water. Pour this into the apple and boil 
five minutes. Strain it and keep hot until ready to 
serve. May serve with cream if desired. 

BEEF MINCE. 

Have a pound of beef from the round. Free it 
from all sinews and fat. Mince it very fine. To 
two tablespoonsful of butter in a sauce pan put in 
the meat and a teaspoonful of onion juice. Stir for 
three or four minutes, or until the meat is hot 
through. Add salt and pepper, and if desired a little 
lemon juice. Serve on hot buttered toast. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

Put two tablespoonsful of butter in a saute pan. 
Lay twenty good sized oysters into it. When the 
edges curl and the oysters plump, dust them with 
pepper and salt, and serve at once on toast. Two 
tablespoonsful of sherry can be added before serving 
if desired. 

RAW MEAT DIET. 

Scrape pulp from a good steak, season to taste. 
Spread on slices of bread, then sear the bread 
slightly and serve as a sandwich. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 79 



FLAXSEED LEMONADE. 



One tablespoonful of whole flaxseed, one pint of 
boiling water, lemon juice, and sugar. Pick over and 
wash the flaxseed, add water, and cook two hours, 
keeping just below the boiling point. Strain ; add 
lemon juice and sugar to taste. 

ORANGE ADE. 

Juice of i orange. x% tablespoonsful of syrup. 

2 tablespoonsful of crushed ice. 

Make a syrup by boiling eight minutes one cup of 
water and half a cup of sugar. Mix the orange juice 
and the syrup, and pour over the crushed ice. 

SHERRY NOGG. 

To the yelk of one egg thoroughly beaten add one 
tablespoonful of powdered sugar and two table- 
spoonsful of sherry wine and a pint of whipped 
cream. 



8o ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 



DAINTY MENUS 

FOR CONVALESCENT PATIENTS. 



Select the daintest of tray covers and china, and 
make the tray look as attractive as possible in every 
way. 

No. U 

Bouillon. 

Creamed Chicken on Toast, 

garnished with parsley. 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches, served on lettuce leaf. 

Small Mold Bavarian Cream 

with whipped cream. 



No. 2. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

Supreme of Chicken with White Sauce, garnished with 

parsley. 

Beaten Biscuit. 

One Fresh Tomato, garnished with chopped celery or 

Nasturtium leaves. 

Mold of Wine Jelly. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 8l 



No. 3. 

Broiled Breast of Chicken with drawn butter. 

Creamed Sweetbreads on Toast with peas. 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches. 

Cup of Delicate Chocolate. 

A Little Whipped Cream, frozen. 



No. 4. 

An Orange cut in half, after being on ice several hours. 

Broiled Sweetbi'ead, garnished. 

Quail on Toast. 

Celery Salad, garnished with celery tops. 

Bread Sticks. 

Pineapple Ice. 



82 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 



No. 5. 

Oyster Soup. 

Fish Coquille in a nest of watercress or parsley. 

Broiled Beef Tenderloin, mushroom sauce. 

Parisienne Potatoes. 

Light Rolls. 

Brandy Peaches. 



No. 6. 

Sweetbread Croquettes with creamed peas. 
Bread and Butter Sandwiches. 

Celery Salad. 

Chocolate with whipped cream. 

Plain Ice Cream. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 83 



CHAPTER ON MENUS. 



INFORMAL DINNER. 

No. U 

Salted Almonds. Olives. 

Chicken Gumbo. 

Fish Pudding. Parisienne Potatoes. 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce. Croquettes of Peas, 

Asparagus, and Stuffed Sweet Potatoes. 

Celery Salad. 

Charlotte Russe, or Ices. 

Coffee. 



No. 2. 

Salted Almonds, Pickles, and Celery. 

St. Germain Soup. 

Broiled Pompano. Potatoes au Gratin. 

Grouse or Pheasant. Asparagus. Peas. 

Nut and Celery Salad. 

Fig Pudding with fancy sauce. 



84 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 

DINNER. 

No. i. 

Salted Almonds. Maron Glace. 

Blue Points on Shell. 

Consomme. 

Lobster Timbals with lobster sauce. 

Fillet of Beef. Parisienne Potatoes. Asparagus. 

Victoria Punch. 

Stuffed Quail. Croquettes of Peas with white sauce. 

Stuffed Mushrooms. 

Celery Salad. 

Fancy Ices and Cakes. 

Coffee. 

No. 2. 

Blue Points on the Shell. 

Consomme. 

Stuffed Lobster. 

Fillet of Beef. Creamed Cauliflower. Potatoes. 

Roman Punch. 

Broiled Grouse with asparagus. Sweetbread Croquettes 

with peas. 

Green Grape Salad. 

Fancy Ices and Cakes. 

Coffee. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



85 



No. 3. 

Oyster Cocktail. 

Cream of Celery Soup with whipped cream garnish. 

Lobster a la Newburg. 

Venison Steaks. Asparagus. 

Roman Punch. 

Sweetbread a la Victoria, Allemande Sauce. Peas. 

Salad a la Jardin, in Turnips. 

Sultana Roll Ices, with claret sauce. Cakes. 

Coffee. Cheese. Crackers. 



No. 4. 



Cavierre on Toast. 

Consomme. 

Lobster Timbals. 

Fillet of Beef. Stuffed Sweet Potatoes. Asparagus. 

Fruit Punch. 

Pheasant. Potatoes en Surprise with sauce. 

Stuffed Mushrooms. 

Waldorf Salad. 

Fancy Ices and Cake. 

Coffee. 



86 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 



SIMPLE LUNCHEON. 

No. U 

Sliced Pineapple with crushed ice and sherry. 

Bouillon. 

Oyster Patties. 

Stuffed Lamb Chops with peas. 

Egg Salad. 

Brick Cream and Cakes. 

Coffee. 



No. 2. 

Puree of Asparagus with whipped cream garnish. 

Oyster en Coquille. 

Chicken Croquettes with creamed peas. 

Celery Salad. 

Bavarian Cream. Macaroons. 

Coffee. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 87 



No. 3. 

Tomato Puree. 

Mushrooms a l'Algonquin on Toast. 

Broiled Fillets. Potatoes en Surprise. 

Hollandaise Punch. 

Pepper Timbals. Chicken Salad. 

Individual Orange Ice with Cakes. 

Coffee. 



No. 4. 

Grape Fruit. 

Bouillon. 

Fish Croquettes with white sauce. Potatoes. 

Broiled Quail on Toast with asparagus. 

Hollandaise Punch. 

Little Pigs in Blankets (Sweetbreads). 

Waldorf Salad. 

Individual Ices and Cakes. 

Coffee. 



88 ONE HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS. 



No. 5. 

Large Pink Grapes. 

Crushed Ice with sherry wine. 

Lobster Cutlets with Bechamel sauce. 

Broiled Grouse. Potatoes en Surprise with oyster sauce. 

Victoria Punch. 

Croquettes of French Peas with sauce. 

Salad a la Jardin. 

Individual Brick. Cake. 

Coffee. 



No. 6. 

Oyster Bisque. 

Fish Croquettes with Potatoes. 

Broiled Quail. Saratoga Chips. Asparagus. 

Punch. 

Supreme of Chicken with Bechamel sauce. 

Green Grape Salad. 

Ice Cream Plates with Brandied Fruit. Cakes. 

Coffee. 



MEMORANDA. 



The following blank pages are intended for recording 
receipts that may hereafter come to notice, or for any 
data on those contained herein. 



(89) 



9° MEMORANDA. 



MEMORANDA. 9 1 



92 



MEMORANDA. 



MEMORANDA. 93 



94 MEMORANDA. 



MEMORANDA. 



95 



9^ MEMORANDA. 



MEMORANDA. 97 



MEMORANDA. 



MEMORANDA. 99 



MEMORANDA. 



MEMORANDA. 



MEMORANDA. 



MEMORANDA. 103 



io 4 MEMORANDA. 



MEMORANDA. IO5 



106 MEMORANDA. 



MEMORANDA. IO7 



io8 



MEMORANDA. 



MEMORANDA. 1 09 



MEMORANDA. 



WMEBEVEB YEAST 

IS MENTIONED 
IN TMIS BOOK 

EEEISCMMANN & C9S 

COMPRESSED 

YEAST 

IS INTENDED TO 
BE USED. 




THE- 



&m^^&m^&mm^ : mmmmmfm&mm&»& 



CLAUDINE 
FLOUR SIFT 



.-:-:-...•:-. 



PRICE, 35 CENTS. 

Sift, ladies, sift, sift flour thrice, 

If you want cake light and nice 

Sift through a single sieve, into a pan, 

Over and over again, is the old plan. 

The Claudine Sifter, with three successive sieves, 

Will sift flour three times, and it gives 

Flour light and fine, makes good bread and cakes. 

Saves time and labor — less flour, too, it takes. 

Then sift, ladies, sift, sift flour thrice. 

Pastry, bread, and cakes will be light and nice. 

For information write to _, ..._,.._ ..,...-... _„ ...__..,- . 

Mrs. CLAUDINE WHEELER HARDING, Inventor, 

No. 2603 Beech Street. Louisville, Ky. 



FOR SALE AT THE 

STEWART DRY GOODS CO . NEW YORK STORE 



..GET THE BEST.. 
R. O. GATHRIGHT & CO.'S 

"DAISY" TLOUR 

BEST ELOUR MADE TOR CAKES OR FAMILY USE. 

HEADQUARTERS FOR 

GAS COOKING AND HEATING STOVES, 

"VICTOR" INSTANTANEOUS GAS WATER HEATERS, 

WELSBACH LIGHTS, and all gas appliances. 

EDWIN H. WEHLE, 
. . plumber ano ^fitter . . 

N. E. COR. BROOK AND ST. CATHERINE STS. LOUISVILLE, KY. 

E. H. FERGUSON, R. C. WAGGENER, J. J. CAFFREY, 

President. Treasurer. Secretary. 

KENTUCKY REFINING COMPANY, 

LOUISVILLE, KY. 

REFINERS OF COOKING, SALAD, AND ALL GRADES OF 

COTTONSEED OIL. 

"DELMONICO" COOKING OIL. This brand of Oil needs no introduc- 
tion ; speaks for itself, and for culinary purposes can not be sur- 
passed ; in fact, it is recommended by physicians and cooks generally 
through the country; being so much purer and better than lard. 
For frying purposes it is especially good, and can not be equaled. 

"NONPAREIL" SALAD OIL. This is a strictly Winter Pressed Oil, 
prepared especially for culinary and salad purposes. By a great 
many it is used in preference to Olive Oil, being so much cheaper 
and quite as good ; and some also prefer it for cooking purposes. 

"ECLIPSE" BUTTER OIL. This is a selected grade of purely vegetable 
Oil, and is used mostly by bakers. 



