
Tl 



ie 



"eJ^J 




iOUSEKEEPER'S 



RIEND. 




TX 




715 j 

■ M555 



COPYRIGHTED 1897. 



NOV 15 1897 




7 



& 



L 



m 



n 







So far as price possibilities of FINE CHINA AND RICH CUT 
GLASS are concerned, our latest Catalogue has been called "A 
Liberal Education." It contains hun- 
dreds of entries like the following;: 




Haviland Lim 
choice of four ver 
tions, with cloudec 
102 pieces, complet 

Full of s 
Gifts and An 
yourself. In 



LIBRARY 0E CONGRESS. 



<X"^ 

Chap....:... Copyright No.. 
Shelf_.iM.5.5^ 




UNiTED STATES OF AMERICA. 



I Fleurde Lis design, and 
[: 12 Saucer Champagnes, 
1 Bowl Clarets, 12 Cordi- 
|ers. 00 pieces $7.60 

'resents, Birthday 
things you want 
No. 



Silver Moon 
Baking Powders 

Manufactured only from Chemically Pure ingredients. 

Silver Moon 
Flavoring Extracts 

Guaranteed full strength and pure. 

/TlHESE Silver Moon Baking Powders and Flavoring Ex- 
tracts have been manufactured and used by us for many 
years. Many Memphis housekeepers use them and know what 
they are. EVERY PACKAGE FULLY GUARANTEED. 

For Sale by Most of the Good Retail Grocers. 
WE SELL TO MERCHANTS ONLY. 

The Oliver-Finnic Grocer Co. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



u 




FOR ARTISTIC 

Millinery 

AND GARMENTS, 
MAIN STREET, Opposite Court Square. 



P. B. Jefeerson. A FEW FACTS ABOUT W. T. Jefferson. 

Jefferson Bros. 



DoUN 



Their stock is full and c omplete ? 
It is new and therefore fresh ? 



They Guarantee satisfaction in every instance ? 
They are ANXIOUS to serve you ? 



A visit from you will be greatly appreciated and we 
will take pleasure in showing you a line of the latest 
novelties in table delicacies. 

Place : 427 & 429 ORLEANS STREET. Time: 6 A. M. to 9 P. M. 

J. N. Howard & Co. 

CORNER WALNUT AND POLK. 

•** Fancy Grocer s^^ 

AND FRESH MEATS. 

TELEPHONE 436. QUICK DELIVERY. 



iii ADVERTISEMENTS. 



For absolutely perfect success 
with these recipes, be 
sure you use 

Golden Harvest Flour 

YOU CAN GET IT FROM 

Baldwin, Knowlton & Lake. 



TIEHIE 



Housekeeper's Friend 



A COLLECTION OF 



TESTED RECIPES 



FOR THE PREPARATION OF 

Daily and Occasional Dishes 



RECOMMENDED BY EXPERIENCED HOUSEKEEPERS. 



COMPILED BY 

THE GUILD OF THE HOLY NAME 
(WOMAN'S GUILD) OF GRACE CHURCH, 

MEMPHIS, TENN. 



"We may live without friends, we may live without books, 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks." 



- 



-28 1397 )) 



BEGARIS PRINTING CO., MtUfhlS, TENH. 







^Jfeo fiJ? V 



Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the Year 1897, by the Woman's Guild of 
Grace Church, in the Office of the^Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C. 



TWO COPIES m 

f 



6 






PREFACE. 



In making this collection we have endeavored to present only 
those recipes known to be trustworthy. Originality is not claimed 
for them, but they are given as those which are in practical use by 
the donors and are valuable for this reason. 

Our aim als» is to give these recipes with formula of mixing or 
making them, as to the inexperienced cook a list of the many float- 
ing recipes is not only a waste of material, but in a discouraging 
sense of failure. 

We see ill-cooked food of all sorts, carelessly prepared fruits, 
and, above all, such a limited variety as turns the soul sick. 

We wish to thank those who have helped in the compilation 
of this little book, and especially the business men, whose adver- 
tisements we heartily recommend to our readers' notice. 

THE COMMITTEE. 




The great art student and critic, Mr. Ruskin, once said of 
cooking: "It means the knowledge of Medes, and of Circe, and 
of Calypao, and of Helen, and of Rebekah, and of the Queen of 
Sheba. It means carefulness and inventiveness, watchfulness, will- 
ingness and readiness of appliances. It means the economy of 
your grandmother and the science of modern chemistry, and French 
art, and Arabian hospitality." And in the face of such a definition 
how dare woman despise the art ? 







INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Bread 103-11 1 

Cakes 1 13-123 

Doughnuts, Tea Cakes, etc 123-127 

Candies 135—137 

Custards 77 

Desserts 79-84 

Chocolate Russe 79-80 

Ice Cream, Sherbets, etc 81-84 

Drinks 131-132 

Eggs 43 

Fish 18-21 

Hints on Entertaining 9-10 

M acaroni 49~5 ° 

Meats 29-32 

Chicken 32—35 

Turkey 35-37 

Game 37 

Croquettes 37—39 

Miscellaneous Recipes and Suggestions 139-142 

Proper Relishes 142 

Household Hints 142-145 

Noodles 48 

Oysters 24-26 

Pastry 61-63 

Pickles 93 - 96 

Sweet 96-98 

Catsups and Sauces 98-100 

Preface 6 

Preserves and Jellies 87-90 

Puddings 67-74 

Ravioli 140 

Salads 53—58 

Soups 1 1— 15 

Vegetables 45~49 



HINTS ON ENTERTAINING. 



To entertain easily may be counted a fine art. It does not 
necessarily require wealth, a grand display of china, glass and 
silver, valuable as these accessories are, but one must have good 
taste, tact, generous hospitality ; must know how to cook, to have 
it done properly, how to set a table and how various dishes should 
be served. 

Experience satisfies me the best way to serve a dinner, luncheon 
or supper is to serve it in courses, especially so if only the maid 
servant is waitress. If you have only three things, served in this 
way seems a great deal nicer, besides your table can be kept in so 
much better order. 

The glassware bright as it can be made. Nothing produces 
such brilliancy on even ordinary glass as a few drops of ammonnia 
in the water in which it is washed. 

Whoever waits upon the table should not seem to be hurrying, 
and yet should be as expeditious as possible. 

Make your bill of fare and pin it up in the kitchen, so there 
will be no confusion or mistake in the order of the dishes. 

Never attempt a new dish for company that you have not 
thoroughly tested yourself. Do not attempt too much in any way. 
If you do the anxiety and worry of it is sure to be reflected in your 
face and it will have its effect on your guests. You do not want to 
be divided between your guests and what is going on in the kitchen. 
It rests with the hostess to see that her guests are congenial. 

She must see that her dining-room is cool at first and venti- 
lated with fresh air during dinner; that draughts, noise and confu- 
sion are avoided, and the lights not too bright or too dim, and that 
no crowding is permissible under any circumstances. 

Always put a Canton flannel or some other thick material 
under the table cloth. It prevents noise and improves the appear- 
ance of the linen. Do not starch your napkins, have them ironed 
first on wrong side, then on right, having been made very damp 
and folded long enough to give well. A very little starch in your 
table cloth. A spotlessly white table cloth, ironed to perfection, 
is one of the essentials toward an attractive looking table. 

Nothing in the way of ornament is so pretty and shows such 



10 HINTS ON ENTERTAINING. 

refined taste as flowers If you do not want to go to the expense 
of cut flowers, a blooming plant with the pot covered with pale 
green tissue paper, twisted so as to look like the calyx of a flower, 
or a rose bowl filled with fern leaves, makes a pretty decoration. 

Put on all knives, forks and spoons that will be needed for the 
different courses. Place the knives on the right, the spoons that 
will be needed next to them and the forks on the left. This saves 
extra work and confusion. 

Place a glass of water at each plate, which should be filled 
just before dinner is served. 

The side table should be laid with a white cloth, and plates, 
finger bowles, other plates, glasses, etc., needed during the meal 
should be arranged neatly and tastefully thereon. 

There should be no long, formal pause between any of the 
courses, and it devolves upon the guests to see that this does not 
happen, and it is only right that they should save the host and 
hostess from the embarrassment of such an occasion by not allow- 
ing any conversational lulls. Small talk is the boon of a fashionable 
dinner what salad is to the menu. 

It is a great compliment to be invited to a dinner party. 
When you receive an invitation reply at once. A dinner or 
luncheon is a limited affair, and if you cannot attend send word 
immediately, so that someone else may be invited in your place. 

—S. M. B. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 11 



RECIPES. 



SOUPS. 



Stock is the juice of meat extracted by long and gentle sim- 
mering. A piece from the neck, a shank or a chicken will do to 
prepare stock, and this is the basis for all soups. Put on to cook 
in cold water with salt and pepper, allowing a quart of water to a 
pound of beef. Let it come to a boil, skimming off any substance 
which may rise to the surface ; let it boil slowly for several hours. 
A little hot water should be added from time to time to keep the 
necessary amount. It should then be strained and is now ready 
for any soup, and in cool weather may be saved for several days. 
The above is soup stock, and with it can very readily and 
very quickly be made such soups as Cream of Potatoes, Cream 
of Barley, Celery, Rice, etc. If liked, when boiling the stock, two 
carrots, two turnips, an onion, six cloves, stalk of celery, parsley, 
etc., can be added. — Mrs. 0. H. Benton. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

One head of celery, one pint of boiling water, two cups of 
milk, one slice ot onion, one tablespoonful of flour, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, pinch of pepper. Cut 
celery in small pieces, boil half an hour with onion. Boil milk, 
thicken with butter and flour, add salt and pepper, then pour all 
together. Before serving add a cup of whipped cream. — Mrs. S. 
C. Emery. 

Chicken Cream Soup. 

One quart of chicken stocky one pint of cream, four eggs, half 
cupful bread crumbs, salt, pepper and celery seed to taste. Heat 
the stock to a boiling point. Bott the eggs for twenty-five minutes, 
and mash them with the bread crumbs, which should be softened 
in a little milk. Heat the cream near boiling, stir it gradually into 
the eggs and crumbs ; pour mixture into the stock and boil five 
minutes. — Mrs. 0. If. Eejiton. 

Potato Soup. 

One quart of milk, six large potatoes, one stalk of celery, 
one onion and one tablespoonful e£ butter. Cook onions and 
celery until tender. Pare the potatoes and boil them thirty min- 
ute*, turn off the water and mash fine, add boiling milk, onion, 



12 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

celery, butter, salt and white pepper to taste. Rub through 
a strainer and serve immediately. A cup of whipped cream added 
when in the tureen is a great improvement. This soup should not 
te allowed to stand even if kept hot. Served as soon as it is ready 
it is excellent. — A Friend. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Get a good sized beef shank (if you have no stock on 
hand) the day before you want the soup; put it on in a soup 
pot, fill the pot with cold water, adding a little salt; set it on 
the back part of the lange or stove and let it boil very 
slowly all day. At night strain out the meat and bones; set aside 
to cool. In the morning take off all the grease which forms on top. 
About four hours before use chop fine in chopping bowl one carrot, 
a white turnip, an onion, a bay leaf, making a good sized coffee 
cupful when all is chopped. Take a can of tomatoes, chop and 
put in soup ; season with salt and pepper and half pod red pepper. 

— Mrs. O. H. Benton. 

Consomme. 

One roasted fowl, some roast beef bones, about two 
pounds of fresh beef chopped fine, two gallons of cold water, 
two tablespoonfuls salt ; boil slowly and skim well. Add a 
cleaned carrot, a turnip, an onion, a small parsnip, two leeks and 
a small bit of red pepper. Cover and let it simmer four hours. 
Remove all fat; strain through a cloth ; boil again for half hour; 
add a little browned sugar to color. Serve. — S. M. B. 

Gumbo Soup. 

One young chicken ; fry it brown ; make a thickened gravy. 
Whilst frying steam four large tomatoes and peel them ; cut one 
pint of okra, boil, (cut four ears of green corn, if in season, in 
the okra — it is a great addition). Put chicken, gravy, okra, 
tomatoes, corn, one pod red pepper, salt in a kettle or porcelain 
stew pan with two large cups of boiling water. Boil one hour slowly, 
removing chicken bones with spoon before serving. — Mrs. O. H. 
Benton. 

Chicken Soup. 

Cut a chicken in pieces and fry brown. Put two table- 
spoonfuls of butter and the same of flour in a granite kettle. 
Brown, stirring constantly. Lift the chicken from skillet to ket- 
tle. Pour a gallon of boiling water in the kettle. Put in two 
tablespoonfuls of rice and two bay leaves. Boil down to half 
gallon and season to taste with salt and pepper. — Mrs. F. C. Huse. 

Oxtail Soup. 

Put two oxtails in two gallons of cold water. Boil gently 
two hours, taking off anything that may rise to the top. Chop 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 13 

fine two large potatoes, a soup bunch, a dozen tomatoes (or 
a two-pound can). Stick fifteen cloves in a medium sized onion 
and bake brown. Put that in. Salt to taste. Boil down to three 
quarts. Strain and serve with hard boiled eggs chopped fine. 

— Mrs. F. C. Huse. 

Mock Bisque Soup. 

A quart can of tomatoes, three pints of milk, a large 
tablespoonful of Hour, butter the size of an egg, pepper and 
salt to taste, a scant teaspoonful of soda. Put the tomatoes 
on to stew and the milk in a double kettle to boil, reserv- 
ing half a cupful to mix with flour. Mix the flour smoothly with 
cold milk ; stir into the boiling milk and cook ten minutes. To 
the tomatoes add the soda ; stir well and rub through a sieve which 
is fine enough to keep back the seeds. Add butter, salt and pepper 
to the milk, then add the tomatoes. Serve at once. If half the 
quantity is made, stir the tomatoes in the can well before dividing. 

— A Friend. 

Egg Soup. 

Two quarts of stock, one tablespoonful of flour, four eggs, 
two blades of mace. Beat the flour into a smooth paste with a 
teaspoonful of cold stock ; put the eggs and the thickening in 
the stock and set on the fire; stir all the time it is getting hot; 
never let it boil; simmer for three-quarters of an hour; season with 
salt and pepper to taste. Serve with bread cut in dice and toasted. 

— Mrs. J. W. Brush. 

Black Bean Soup. 

A pint of black beans soaked over night in three quarts 
of water. In the morning put the beans in- three quarts of 
fresh water and boil gently six hours ; there should be one 
quart when done. Add a quart of stock, six whole cloves, 
six whole allspice, a small piece of cinnamon, a small piece of 
mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, one large onion, one carrot, all cut 
fine and fried in three tablespoonfuls of butter. Into the remaining 
butter in the pan, put in a tablespoonful of flour and cook until 
brown ; add to soup, simmer one hour, season with salt and pepper 
to taste and rub through a fine sieve. Serve with slices of lemon 
and egg-balls, the lemon to be put into the tureen with soup. 

— A Friend. 

Tomato Soup. 

One pint can of tomatoes, one quart of hot water, one 
tablespoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour, half tea- 
spoonful each of ground cloves and allspice, one tablespoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, three drops of onion juice. Rub to- 
matoes through a strainer, adding hot water slowly. Cook butter 
and flour together until frothy, mix with a cup of the soup and 



14 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

cook as for cream sauce; add to the soup with the spices and 
seasoning. Let all reach boiling point and serve. 

— Mrs. Alary Jordan. 

Gravy Soup. 

Broil a good-sized beefsteak, then chop it fine and fry- 
brown (stirring all the time) with a lump of butter size of an 
egg, and a large onion, chopped with two spoonfuls of brown 
flour; have ready a teakettle of boiling water; pour it in your soup 
pot over the steak and onion ; chop a can of tomatoes very fine, 
with three turnips and two carrots ; add this, let it boil slowly about 
half an hour. Before serving add four hard-boiled eggs chopped 
fine, a small teaspoonful of ground cloves, two of salt, one of mace. 
Pour in your tureen a half tumbler of claret and a lemon cut in 
small pieces. If you like a little parsley and thyme may be put in. 

— Mrs. Mary Jordan. 

Okra Soup. 

Take a shank bone, or about three pounds of beef, boil 
in three quarts of water until tender, skimming when necessary; 
cut in small pieces and return to pot; add one quart of 
chopped okra, one pint or more chopped tomatoes, one onion cut 
fine, pepper and salt to taste. This soup should boil slowly three 
hours. Three or four ears of grated corn is an improvement. 

— Mrs. Mary Jordan. 

Okra Gumbo. 

Cut up one chicken, sprinkle with flour, fry until brown; 
then add one onion and a quart of okra, both chopped fine; 
fry with the chicken ; pour on three quarts of boiling water, 
one pint of prepared tomatoes, pepper and salt to taste; boil 
three hours and serve with rice. The chicken, okra and onion 
should be fried in the vessel in which the soup is made, and in a 
porcelain or tin lined, as iron discolors the okra. 

— Mrs. Mary Jordan. 

Gumbo. 

One quart of okra, three onions, one quart can tomatoes, 
one chicken cut up, one slice of ham cut up, and all fried. 
Take these and put in a pot and cover with boiling water; 
let simmer for three or four hours; season with parsley, black 
pepper and a little thyme; thicken with a spoonful of flour. Veal 
can be used instead of chicken. — Mrs. C. F. Scaife. 

Tomato Cream Soup. 

Three quarts of stewed tomatoes strained, so that no seeds 
remain ; one quart of boiling milk ; put in a piece of butter the 
size of an egg; add two tablespoonfuls of rolled cracker; salt and 
pepper to taste. Pour over this the boiling milk, then add the 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 15 

strained tomatoes. Mix well and quickly serve. — Mrs. Luke W. 
Finlay. 

Celery Soup. 

Three bunches of celery, one pint chicken stock. Let the 
celery (cut up fine) simmer in the stock until tender. Put a 
pint of milk in a double boiler; into the milk put a small 
piece of onion. When the celery is tender rub through a strainer. 
Add the boiled milk to the strained celery and thicken in the fol- 
lowing manner : One tablespoonful butter, one tablespoonful flour. 
Season with salt and white pepper. — Mrs. George B. Peters. 

Mock Bisque Soup. 

One-half quart can tomatoes, one quart milk, one-third 
cup of butter, one tablespoon of corn starch, one teaspoon of 
salt, one-half teaspoon of soda, a little white pepper. Take 
one tablespoonful of butter from the quantity given, put into 
a stew pan and work corn starch into it and add the quart of boil- 
ing milk. Strain the tomatoes and pour the milk on to them. Put 
on the stove and add the remaining butter. When it thickens to 
the right consistency remove from the fire. — Mrs. George B. Peters. 

Velvet Soup. 

One large fat chicken covered with three pints of cold 
water ; cook slowly in a covered vessel. Add to this three pints 
of chicken stock, one small onion cut, one head of celery cut 
up and one clove and as much grated nutmeg as can be held 
on the point of a penknife (yi teaspoonful) ; cover closely and 
simmer until celery and onion are tender, then strain and add one 
quart of rich cream, one pint of finest white bread crumbs, one 
large cupful of chicken breast finely powdered, one cup of blanched 
almonds finely powdered. Put on hottest part of range and let 
boil, stirring frequently. Serve at once. Chop ingredients in 
wooden tray. — Mrs. R, B. Maury. 



16 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



THE|HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 17 



18 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



FISH. 

There are no vegetables served with fish, but a salad is allow- 
able. If the fish be boiled, a plate of sliced lemon should be 
handed about, to be squeezed upon the fish, unless fish sauce or 
condiment is preferred. With salmon, -thinly cut slices of cucum- 
ber, dressed with pepper, salt and vinegar, should be served. 

Codfish Balls. 

Pare one pint of potatoes, take one cup of salt codfish (well 
washed), put in a kettle, cover with boiling water, and cook 
until potatoes are tender; drain off the water, add one table- 
spoonful of butter, one-half teaspoonful of white pepper; mash 
until very light with a potato masher; when cool enough to 
handle, add one egg, work through well with hand, form into 
round balls, set in a cool place until wanted. If for breakfast, 
prepare evening before. Fry in hot lard. — Mrs. O. H. Benton. 

Baked Salmon (Canned.) 

First remove the oil, bones and skin from the fish, then mix 
with it enough salt and pepper for seasoning, a tablespoonful of 
melted butter, two eggs, one cup of bread crumbs and a little 
chopped pickle cucumber ; put it in a buttered baking dish, cover, 
set in pan of water in the oven ; bake an hour, then serve with a 
sauce made by putting in a tablespoonful of butter, minced pickle, 
parsley, a beaten egg, the oil from the fish, and salt and pepper. 
Let this boil up and serve on the fish. — Mrs. O. H. Benton. 

Baked Fish. 

Let the fish remain in cold water, slightly salted, for an 
hour before time to cook; place the gridiron on a dripping 
pan with a little hot water in it and bake in a hot oven. Just 
before done butter it well on top and brown nicely. It takes 
a small fish half an hour, a large one one hour to bake. 

Mock Fish. 

Slice cold grits about half an inch thick, dip in egg, roll in 
meal and fry in hot lard. — Mrs. Elizabeth Sanders. 

Codfish Balls. 

Two cups ot potatoes (cut up), one cup of codfish, one 
egg, one teaspoonful of butter, pepper to taste. Put potatoes 
and codfish on in boiling water. When potatoes are done drain 
the water off and mash well. After mashing work a little with 
a fork, then add the butter, eggs and pepper. Fry a light brown. 

— Mrs. George B. Peters. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 19 

Baked Red Snapper. 

Stuff the raw fish with a dressing made of lightbread crumbs, 
a little onion, salt and pepper. Pour over the fish a pint of 
water and season for sauce. Strain juice from one can tomatoes, 
boil until thick, then add tablespoonful of butter and season with 
black pepper, cayenne pepper and Worcestershire sauce. When 
fish is nearly done baste with part of same and serve rest with fish 
at the table. — Mrs. J. H. Allen, 

Sainton Farce. 

One-pound can of salmon (best), one tablespoonful of 
parsley, one tablespoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls of bread 
crumbs, one tablespoonful of flour, one-half pint of sweet milk, 
yolks of three hard boiled eggs, salt and cayenne pepper to taste. 
Put milk on to boil, rub butter and flour together, stir into milk 
until quite thick. Take from fire, add bread crumbs, salmon, etc. 
Mix all well together, put into a pan or baking dish, brush over the 
top with white of egg, sprinkle with bread crumbs, put into a quick 
oven and bake fifteen minutes. — Mrs. Markham. 

Salmon Pudding. 

Remove the skin and bones from a pound of salmon, 
then mash with a wooden spoon. Add one tablespoonful lemon 
juice, teaspoonful of salt, pinch of red pepper, cup of stale bread 
crumbs; mix. Add the yolks of three eggs and then stir in 
carefully the well-beaten whites. Pour in a shallow mold, well- 
buttered ; stand in a pan of hot water, cover with paper and 
cook in oven twenty minutes. Serve hot with sauce. — Mrs. Gelon 
Craft. 

Scallop Fish. 

Take a pound and a half or two pounds and boil until it 
falls to pieces, then pick very fine. Make a sauce of milk, 
let it come to a boil, then thicken with a tablespoonful of flour, 
lump of butter the size of an egg, salt, pepper, and stir this 
into the fish and thicken, if necessary, with cracker crumbs, and 
dust over the top of the shell with cracker crumbs and bake. 

— Mrs. Luke W. Finlay. 

Salmon for a Luncheon. 

Take a can of salmon, drain off the liquor, lay on a dish 
and pick into small pieces. Make a dressing as follows : The 
yolks of two hard boiled eggs, two mealy potatoes, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, one teaspoonful each of mustard and salt ; 
rub all together smooth. Add vinegar to make consistency of 
cream. Lay this in spoonfuls here and there on the salmon and 
a ring of the white of the egg on the side of it. Garnish with nas- 
turtium leaves and blossoms. — Mrs. W. M. Whedon. 



20 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Codfish Balls. 

Soak well one package of codfish ; drain off water, place in 

-saucepan and boil until tender. Remove all skin and bones ; add 

four medium sized boiled potatoes, mashed very fine, one onion 

chopped fine, two well-beaten eggs and a little pepper; mix 

.thoroughly, roll into balls or flat cakes and fry. — Mrs. C. Meister. 

To Stew Red Fish. 

Have the scales weil taken from the fish, well washed and 
wiped dry; put the fish into the pan and half fry it; put 
one teaspoonful of mace, one of allspice, one-fourth teaspoonful 
of cloves, one onion, a handful of parsley; chop them very 
fine together. One teacupful of milk, and as much water as 
you think sufficient for the gravy ; one large spoonful of butter, 
add three of flour to it, rub the butter and flour well together, then 
add a little warm water to thin it, then add all the ingredients. 
When ready to stew the fish, put it on a strainer and then in the 
kettle, pour the gravy over it, and stew it half an hour, then dish 
for the table. — Creole Cookery Book. 

Baked Red Snapper. 

Take a large fish, clean it, cut off the head and draw the 
entrails through that part, as it must not be cut open. Take the 
crumbs of stale bread, some onions and parsley chopped fine, 
pepper and salt; with this stuff the fish. Put small lumps of 
butter all over the fish ; pour in water to the depth of two inches, 
sprinkle over it a little flour, put the pan in a well-heated oven, 
and bake an hour and a half. — Creole Cookery Book. 

Broiled Mackerel. 

Soak a No. i mackerel over night and wipe dry ; have ready 
some clear coals; heat and grease the gridiron, lay the mackerel 
on it. When cooked turn it by placing a dish on it, then slip the 
skin side of gridiron. Butter and serve hot. 

To Boil Salmon. 

Put it in a cloth and boil eight pounds one hour. Serve with 
butter sauce with parsley chopped in it. 

Fish Turbot. 

Three pounds of white fish steamed until tender. Take out 
bones and season with pepper and salt. 

Dressing Turbot. 

Heat one pint of milk and thicken with a quarter of a pound 
of flour and boil. Remove from fire. When cool add two 
well-beaten eggs and one-quarter pound of butter. Before adding 
eggs slice one small onion and add to the hot milk with a pinch 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 21 

of parsley and thyme. Strain before using. Put in buttered 
shells, sprinkle cracker crumbs on top and bake a half hour, or 
until brown. — Mrs. Mary Jordan. 

Eujj Sauce. 

Melt three tablespoonfuls of butter and stir into it the yolks of 
four eggs, boiled hard and mashed smooth, a pinch of cayenne 
pepper and «alt, juice of half a lemon. — M. J. H. 

While Sauce. 

Melt in a teacupful of milk one tablespoonful of butter, 
rubbed smooth in one tablespoonful of flour; beat up the yolk of 
an egg with a teaspoonful of cream, stir it into the milk and heat 
to a boiling point. A tablespoonful of chopped parsley added as 
taken from the fire improves it. This is nice for boiled chicken or 
fish.— M. J. H. 



22 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 23 



24 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



OYSTERS. 

To the housekeeper, as well as the epicure, one of the many 
attractions of winter is the advent of the oyster. To the former 
particularly the reappearance of that popular bivalve is a veritable 
boon, as there is nothing that can be served as quickly in such a 
variety of ways and is so generally liked. 

The best way of frying oysters is to dip them in the beaten 
yolk of egg, well seasoned, and then in cornmeal, lay them on fry- 
ing basket and plunge it in deep hot lard. Serve with a garnish of 
parsley. 

Oyster Croquettes. 

Scald oysters, then chopping fine, add equal amount of 
potatoes (rubbed through a colandei) with butter, pepper, salt and 
a half gill of cream. Shape in small rolls, dip in egg and bread 
crumbs, fry in deep lard. A good way of testing lard for cro- 
quettes is to have it hoi enough to brown a bit of bread an inch 
square in one minute. 

Oyster Omelet. 

Chop twelve or fifteen large oysters, mix as much flour as can 
be taken up with a teaspoon, add a half gill of rich cream, add 
two ounces of melted butter, six well-beaten eggs, (always seper- 
ately for omelet), with pepper and salt to taste ; stir in the oysters, 
fry and fold like an ordinary omelet. 

Breakfast or Dry Stew. 

One quart, or a can, of oysters ; put them in a colander over 
a bowl, let them drain until needed for the meal. Have a skillet 
hot, put one tablespoonful butter in same ; when melted pour in 
oysters and stir till beards curl; add salt and pepper to taste. 
Serve in a hot covered dish, and have saucers hot in which they 
should be served. With buttered toast, is a nice breakfast dish. 

—Mrs. O. H. Benton. 

Oyster Stew witli milk. 

Have ready two granite saucepans. Place in one a quart of 
fresh milk, in the other a quart (or a can) of oysters ; add to the 
milk a tablespoonful of butter, salt and' pepper to taste. Ssason 
oysters very slightly; set on range and let each come to aboil; 
do not let them boil ; keep hot until wanted, then add oysters to 
the milk; stir gently, pour in a hot tureen and serve. — Mrs. 0. 
H. Benton. 

Everything like a surprise is always attractive at a table. 
"Oyster caches" may serve as a suggestion. Season mashed 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 25 

potatoes with butter, pepper and salt; add a little rich cream, but 
not enough to soften it. With this fill a mold about an inch thick, 
and into it pour some oysteis dressed with cream, pepper, salt, 
and a tiny bit of mace; add a little of their own gravy, and when 
quite hot the beaten yolk of one egg. The oysters should fill the 
mold to within half an inch from the top; cover with the potatoes, 
pressed down evenly, and turn it from mold onto dish. Cover 
with beaten yolk of an egg and then with bread crumbs. Plunge 
in hot lard and when a light brown lift out, serve on a hot dish 
garnished with parsley. 

Oyster Fritters. 

Drain liquor from oysters and to a cupful of this add the same 
quantity of milk, three eggs, a little silt and flour enough for 
a thin batter. Chop the oysters and stir into the batter. Have 
ready in the frying pan a few spoonfuls of lard, or half lard and 
half butter; heat very hot and drop the oyster batter in by the 
tablespoonful. 

Broiled Oysters. 

Take only the largest and finest oysters; see that the gridiron 
is perfectly clean ; rub the bars with fresh butter and set it over 
a clean fire, entirely free from smoke, or on a bad of bright coals. 
Place the oysters on the gridiron and when done on one side turn, 
being careful not to allow them to burn. Put some fresh butter 
in the bottom of a dish, lay the oysters on it ; season with pepper 
and salt. Send to the table very hot. — Mrs. C. N. Churchill. 

Mock Oysters. 

Beat well pork or veal steak, cut in pieces half the size of 
saucers ; dip in beaten egg ; roll in cracker or bread crumbs and 
fry in hot lard. — Mrs. Elizabeth Sanders. 

Fried Oysters. 

The largest oysters are chosen for this purpose. Simmer 
them in their own liquor for a few moments, take them out and 
lay them on a cloth to drain, flour them, roll in egg, then in 
cracker or bread crumbs and drop them in boiling lard. Fry 
them a crisp, deiicate brown and serve with sliced lemon. — Mrs. 
C. N. Churchill. 

Creamed Oysters. 

One quart of oysters, one pint of cream, a slice of onion, 
salt and pepper to taste and a tablespoonful of flour. Mix the 
flour to a smooth paste with a little cold cream or milk and stir 
gradually into the boiling cream. Let the oysters come to a boil 
in their own liquor. Drain off all the liquor and turn the oysters 
into the cream (skim out the onion) and serve hot. — Mrs. C. JV. 
Churchill. 



26 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Oyster Toast. 

Allow six oysters for each person ; mince them fine ; beat a 
spoonful of butter, salt and pepper together and heat. When hot 
add the oysters, the beaten yolk of an egg and two tablespoonfuls 
of rich cream. Stir, and when the egg is set pour over buttered 
toast and serve hot.— Mrs. C. N. Churchill. 

Stuffed Oysters. 

One can of fresh oysters ; take all the eyes or hard lumps 
out of them and put them into a bowl and chop fine. Boil two 
eggs hard and chop fine ; put these and two raw eggs into the 
oysters, also butter the size of an egg, salt, pepper and a little 
chopped onion if liked; thicken with cracker crumbs and fill 
shells and bake. — Mrs . Finlay. 

Steam Oysters. 

Place oysters in a dish, sea*on with pepper, salt and butter; 
set in a steamer over boiling water and steam until they begin to 
curl. 

Mock Oysters. 

To one pint of grated green corn add two well-beaten eggs, 
one-half cup of cream, one-half cup of flour, cne teaspoonful of 
baking powder, salt and pepper; fry in butter. 

Breakfast Oysters. 

One quart of oysters, one pint of rich cream, butter the size of 
a large egg, salt and pepper to taste. Allow the cream to almost 
bpil, drain the liquor from the oysters and put them in the kot 
cream ; add butter, salt, pepper and one tablespoonful of flour, 
made smooth in a little water; allow all to come to a boil. Serve 
on buttered toast. — A Frie?id. 

Escaloped Oysters. 

One quart of oysters; have a baking dish in readiness, roll 
some crackers fine; grease baking dish, cover bottom with 
oysters, then a layer of crackers, dotting same with bits of butter, 
seasoning with pepper and salt. Alternate oysters and crackers 
until all have been used, having the last layer crackers, with 
butter as before; add four tablespoonfuls of cream and a little 
of their liquor. Bake until heated through and the crackers a 
nice brown on top. Too long cooking makes them watery. 

— Mrs. 0. H. Benton. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND 27 



28 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 29 



MEATS. 



Unless the meat has been exposed to dust it should not be 
washed, but wiped with a clean cloth. 

Thick joints, as sirloin of beef or leg of mutton, twenty min- 
utes to the pound and twenty minutes over. Veal and pork re- 
quire twenty-five or thirty minutes, as both are very unwholesome 
if not thoroughly cooked. 

To bake meat place it in a dripping pan in hottest part of the 
oven for five or ten minutes, then remove to a cooler part and let 
it cook gradually. Baste frequently. 

All scraps of clean cooked or uncooked fat should be melted 
down. Cut into small pieces, put in a stewpan, cover with cold 
water, let it come to a boil, remove the skum and boil quickly with 
the lid off, until the liquid is clear, stirring occasionally. Draw 
the pan to one side to let the fat go on melting until the pieces be- 
come crisp and brown. Allow it to cool a little, then pour through 
a strainer in a bowl or jar. May be used for frying, etc. 

METHODS OF COOKING. 

Roasting — Cooking before the fire. 

Baking — Cooking in the oven. 

Boiling — Cooking in water. 

Stewing — Cooking in gravy. 

Steaming — Cooking by the action of steam. 

Frying — Cooking in hot fat. 

Broiling — Cooking over the fire on gridiron. 

TIME TABLE FOR ROASTED MEATS. 

Beef— From six to eight pounds, one hour and a half, or twelve 
minutes to the pound. 

Mutton — Ten minutes to the pound, rare ; fifteen for well done. 

Lamb — A very little less, according to age and size of roast. 

Veal — Twenty minutes to a pound. 

Pork — Half an hour to a pound. 

Turkey — Of eight or ten pounds weight, not less than three 
hours. 

Goose — Of seven or eight pounds, two hours. 

Chickens — From an hour to an hour and a half. 

Tame Ducks — One hour. 

Game Ducks — From thirty to forty minutes. 

Partridges, Grouse, etc. — Half hour. 

Pigeons — Half hour. 

Small Birds — twenty minutes. 

There is a great waste of fuel in cooking, which arises from 



30 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

making liquids boil fast, when they only require to be kept simmer- 
ing. There is a degree of heat in water called the boiling point. 
When this is reached all the heat in the world cannot make water 
hotter in an open vessel. It can but boil. Any additional heat 
only wastes time, fuel and spoils the dish. Slow boiling is very 
important for all meats and insures their tenderness, plumpness and 
color. Fresh meats and vegetables should always be plunged in 
boiling water, which preserves their juices. 

Dried meats and vegetables, or meats for soups, should be put 
on in cold water and heated gradually. 

Veal will bear more seasoning and cooking ihan most other 
meats. It is better over than under done. 

Roast Loin of Veal. 

Make a rich dressing of bread crumbs, pepper, salt and sweet 
herbs. Mix with yolk of eggs. Separate the skin from the flank 
with a sharp knife and insert the dressing just over the ends of the 
bones. Pin down the flap with a skewer, dredge with flour, season 
over the top with butter, salt and pepper : brown slowly in a mod- 
erate oven, keeping it constantly basted. Bake two hours and a 
half. Serve with brown gravy. — Mrs. 0. H. Benton. 

marbled Veal. 

Select a nice piece of brea.t and have butcher remove the 
bones, thick skin and gristle. Season the meat with chopped 
parsley, salt and pepper, then lay between the veal thin slices of 
ham, varied with six hard boiled eggs. Roll the whole up tightly 
in a cloth and tie it. Simmer for some hours until tender in a 
very little water. When done pour the liquor over the veal and 
press with a weight until cold. Remove cloth, cut in thin slices 
and garnish with parsley. 

Fresh Tongue-Tomato Sauce. 

Put five tomatoes in a sauce pan on the fire, with half an 
onion chopped fine, one stalk of parsley, one-half stalk of thyme 
and • bay leaf tied together. Do not add water. When tomatoes 
are done, which will be in about twenty minutes, strain them 
through a colander and put on back part of range to simmer. Boil 
the tongue two hours slowly in salted water. Add a teaspoon of 
vinegar and a few bits of red pepper pod to the tomatoes. Pour 
over the tongue and serve. — Mrs. 0. H. Benton. 

Stewed Steak. 

This is a favorite English dish and is an excellent way to use 
cheap cats of beef. Cut round or chuck steak into pieces five or 
six inches square, lay in a stew pan over a hot fire with pieces of 
fat from the steak and an onion sliced thin. When hot and be- 
ginning to brown lay in the beef, which must be floured first. 
Brown it quickly, then add a scant pint of boiling water, a tea- 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 31 

spoon of salt and a small carrot cut in dice. Find the spot on the 
stove where it will slowly simmer and leave it for three hours. 
Thicken gravy and serve. 

Pressed Beef. 

Get a good boiling piece. Bjil until perfectly tender, so that 
bones will slip out. Do not boil very fast and have very little 
water left in the kettle when it is done. Chop, season with salt 
and pepper, put in a crock, placing a weight on top to press down. 
Pour a little liquor over it before pressing. — Mrs. M. S. Durham. 

Veal Cutlets. 

Cutlets should be cut from the fillet, but chops are taken from 
the loin. Some persons have deprecated the practice of beating 
meat, but it is very essential in veal cutlets, which otherwise, espe- 
cially if fried, are very indigestible. Cut about one-half inch thick 
and beat thoroughly. Dip them in egg, then in bread crumbs and 
fry slowly, letting them brown well. Serve with gravy seasoned 
with catsup. — H. E. P. 

Ragged Sally. 

Take mashed potato, prepared as for the table, and put a thin 
layer of it in the bottom of a buttered pudding dish, then a thick 
layer of cold roast beef chopped very fine. If any gravy is left 
from the roast use that to moisten ; if not, put in enough butter to 
make it moist. Season with salt and pepper and put on the meat 
a thick layer of potato, with butter spread on top. Set in the oven 
until hot through and brown. 

Pork Tenderloin. 

Have the skillet hot; grease it with a little lard. Fry both 
sides of tenderloin brown, but do not cook them through ; cover 
with boiling water and stew half an hour ; thicken the gravy ; sea- 
son with salt and pepper. — A Fiiend. 

Pork Tenderloin. 

Cut open the tenderloin and place a row of oysters in as a 
dressing. Season with salt and pepper and a little butter. Pin up 
with toothpicks and broil or bake. Excellent. — Miss Warren. 

Pigf Head Pudding:. 

Boil the head until all the bones slip out. Cut the meat very 
fine, add three eggs, one cup of sweet milk, two cups of bread 
crumbs, salt and pepper to taste. Put in baking pan and bake a 
light brown. — Olivia Rodgers. 

Broiled Venison. 

Cut the slices medium size, thickly butter them, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt ; place the slices on a gridiron and broil quickly. 



32 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

In this way you will preserve the flavor without drying. Send to 
the table hot, with a little melted butter over. — Creole Cookery 
Book. 

Stewed Venison. 

Lay slices of cold venison in a sauce pan, between the slices 
put bits of butter, pepper, salt, a little mustard and cayenne pepper, 
a glass of claret wine. Let it stew fifteen minutes. — Creole Cookery 
Book. 

Stuffed Ham, 

Soak the ham in water for two days and nights, then begin at 
the back and with a sharp knife cut down to the bone, cutting the 
meat from each side, until it is entirely loosened; then pull out. 
Have ready the stuffing ; fill up the cavity with it and sew the ham 
with a coarse needle and strong thread. Take a strip of cotton 
cloth about a yard in width, bind it tightly around the ham, so as 
to preserve its shape ; then boil slowly three or four hours. When 
it is boiled let it remain in the bandage until cold ; then cover with 
sugar and bake. Decorate to taste. 

Stuffing. — One pound pecans, one dozen eggs, one can of 
mushrooms, six truffles, some ham chopped fine, one ounce of mus- 
tard seed. Chop all fine. Season with pepper, allspice, cloves, 
parsley, a little onion, very little salt. — Creole Cookery Book. 

How to Boil a Ham. 

A ham, if dry, should be soaked twelve hours in warm water, 
all the mould scraped off and put it on to cook in cold water, and 
let boil slowly five or six hours, according to size. When done, if 
skinned, put in baking pan and cover with sugar and black pepper 
and browned. It improves it very much. — A Friend. 

Tomato Hash. 

Take about one pint of any kind of cold meat, chop very fine. 
Add a little celery, one medium sized onion, a little parsley, thyme, 
salt and pepper. Into a baking dish place a layer of the seasoned 
meat, cover with tomatoes and then a layer of toasted bread crumbs. 
Continue in this way until the dish is full, having a layer of crumbs 
on top. Add a few small lumps of butter. Bake in a quick oven. 

— Mrs. C. Meister. 



CHICKEN. 

White Fricassee of Chicken. 

Cut a pair of chickens, wash the pieces through two or three 
waters, lay them in a large pan, sprinkle slightly with salt and fill 
the pan with boiling water ; cover and let the chicken stand in it 
half an hour, then put in a stewpan, add a few blades of mace and 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 33 

pepper cones (whole), a handful of celery chopped fine, and a 
small onion. Pour on cold water and milk in equal quantities to 
cover chicken ; let it stew until tender. Prepare gravy in a small 
stewpan by mixing two teaspoonfuls of flour with enough water to 
make a batter ; add gradually half a pint of boiling milk, one-fourth 
of a pound of butter ; set on the fire until it boils, then take off and 
stir in a glass of Madeira or Sherry a pinch of nutmeg, four table- 
spoonfuls of rich cream. Take the chicken out of saucepan, put 
in dish, pour the gravy over; set over a kettle of boiling water ten 
minutes. Serve very hot. — Creole Cookery Book. 

Jellied Chicken. 

After having boiled the chicken (or chickens) in as little water 
as possible until the meat falls from the bones; pick off the meat, 
chop rather fine, and season well with pepper and salt. Then put 
in the bottom of a mold or dish some slices of hard boiled eggs, 
then a layer of chicken, then a layer of eggs and another of chopped 
chicken until the mold is nearly full. Boil down the water in 
which the chicken was boiled until there is a cupful of broth left; 
season well and pour over the chicken; it will sink through and 
form a jelly around it; let it stand several hours on ice. If it is to 
be sliced and there is any doubt about the jelly being stiff enough, 
a little gelatine may be soaked and added to the cup of broth. 
Garnish the dish with celery or parsley. The mold or dish should 
be well greased with butter on the bottom and sides before filling, 
so that it may be turned out nicely. — E. S. C. 

Chicken Terrapin. 

One chicken boiled tender and cut up (not too fine), one can 
mushrooms cut in quarters and stewed about fifteen minutes, one 
set of brains boiled (not too done) and cut up— not mashed. Put 
into a saucepan three-fourths of a pint of milk ; when boiling add 
two tablespoons of flour, having been mixed smooth with a little 
cold milk, the raw yolks of two eggs, one tablespoon of butter, one 
blade of mace, a little parsley. When done pour over chicken, 
brains and mushrooms. Mix all together well ; salt to taste. Add 
one-half teaspoon cayenne pepper, one-fourth teaspoon nutmeg 
and one glass sherry. Bake in shells, with grated toast sprinkled 
over. — 5. F. F. 

Jellied Chicken. 

After having boiled the chicken (or chickens) in as little water 
as possible — until the meat falls from the bones — pick off the meat 
and chop rather fine and season well with salt and pepper. Then 
put in the bottom of a mold or dish some slices of hard boiled eggs, 
then a layer of chicken, then a layer of eggs and another of chicken, 
until the mold is nearly full. Boil down the water in which the 
chicken was boiled until there is about a cupful of broth left. 



34 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Season well and pour over the chicken. It will sink through and 
form a jelly around it. Let it stand several hours on ice. If it is 
to be sliced at the table, and there is any doubt about the jelly 
being stiff enough, a little gelatine may be soaked and added to the 
cupful of broth. Garnish the dish with celery or parsley. The 
mold or dish should be well greased with butter on the bottom and 
sides before filling, so that it may be turned out nicely. — Ella T. 
Crampton. 

Chicken Curry. 

Cut the meat from one chicken (rare); chop fine; one cup 
and a half of tomatoes, half cup of onions chopped fine, salt and 
cayenne pepper to taste. Cook chicken until tender. Stir one 
teaspoonful of curry powder before serving. Pour over a bed of 
rice or potatoes. — Mrs. Pillow. 

Chicken Jelly. 

Two chickens boiled tender, then chop the meat fine, having 
removed the bone and skin. Leave one pint of liquor in the kettle ; 
season it with pepper, salt and butter. Dissolve one-quarter box 
of gelatine in warm water and mix with the liquor. Put back the 
chicken ; boil all this together about three minutes and turn into a 
mold. Serve cold. — Mrs. J. W. Brush. 

Chicken with mushrooms. 

Have ready one pound of cold chicken chopped fine and half 
a pint of mushrooms, cut in small pieces ; cover these with water 
and boil five minutes ; skim out the mushrooms into a hot dish. 
There should be left a coffee-cup full of liquid. If not enough add 
milk to the hot liquid ; thicken this with a tablespoonful of flour, 
same amount of butter, and season ; three minutes boiling will 
thicken it. Add the chicken and mushrooms and cook two 
minutes, stirring constantly. Serve on hot platters. — Olivia Rodgers. 

Imitation Pate de Fois Gras. 

Boil in seperate vessels a nice calf's liver and a tongue in 
slightly salted water. When very tender let them stand in the 
liquor until the next day. Then rub the liver to a paste, moisten- 
ing with melted butter, seasoning with salt, pepper, cayenne, 
grated nutmeg, grated onion, a teaspoonful of made mustard and 
as much of Worcestershire sauce. Mix thoroughly and pack in 
little jars, buttering the inside well, and inserting here and there 
the tongue cut in small bits. Keep in a cool place and cut in 
slices for luncheons or sandwiches. It is very pretty laid on 
a leaf of lettuce with a spoonful of tartar sauce beside it. 

Jellied Chicken. 

Boil a chicken until it will slip easily from the bones, reduce 
the water to about a pint in boiling ; pick the meat from the bones 



• THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. S& 

in medium sized pieces, being careful to leave out all gristle, fat 
and bones; place in a mold, skim the fat off the liquor, add a little 
butter, salt and pepper, and add to it (the pint of water reduced) 
half an ounce of gelatine ; pour over chicken in mold; let it stand 
in ice box or a cool place until firm. Slice, garnish with sliced 
lemon and parsley. — Mrs. O. H. Benton. 

Fried Chicken. 

Cut up a pair of young chickens, lay them in a pan of cold 
water to extract the blood ; wipe them dry, season with pepper 
and salt, dredge with flour, and fry in lard. Have the lard hot 
when the chicken is put in; cover skillet and set back on range to 
fry slowly. When' both sides are a rich brown take out the chicken, 
but keep hot. Then put in skillet half a pint of milk, thickened 
with a teaspoonful of flour; season with pepper, salt, and a few 
pieces of parsley. Garnish the chicken with parsley. Serve the 
gravy in a bowl. — Mrs. F. C. Huse. 

A Dainty Dish. 

When stewing chicken remove the breast before making the 
gravy. When cold shred into inch pieces, take equal amount of 
blanched celery, put it into a saucepan with a little water and cook 
until slightly tender, then add the chicken and the minced liver of 
the fowl. Pour over it one-half cup of sweet milk, season with the 
season prepared for salads, rub a dessertspoonful of butter and 
flour together until creamed and thicken; boil a few minutes and 
serve. 

Boiled Chicken. 

Flour a white cloth, wrap the fowl and put in cold water to 
boil. Simmer one hour. Serve with butter, oyster or celery sauce. 

meek Terrapin. 

Make a cream sauce of one tablespoonful each of butter and 
flour and one cup of cream ; season with salt and pepper. To this 
sauce add one pint cold chicken or veal cut into dice, the yolks of 
two hard boiled eggs chopped fine and the whites cut in larger dice. 
Boil two minutes. Sometimes a quarter of a cup of wine is added 
before served. — Olivia Rodgers. 



TURKEY. 

To Bone a Turkey. 

In dressing the turkey, care must be taken to keep the skin as 
entire as possible. Remove the crop by cutting a lengthwise slit 
in the back of the neck. On no account cut the skin of the breast. 
When dressed, with a sharp, thin knife cut the skin along the back 



36 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

from the neck to the rump. Carefully slip the point of the knife 
in under the flesh, working it loose from the bones, first on one 
side and then on the other. Unjoint all joints in the legs and 
wings as they are reached. It is impossible to remove the bones 
from the end of the wing, and this part must be cut off at the first 
joint. When the bones are out of the legs and wings, work the 
flesh loose from the breast bone and remove the skeleton. 

Forcemeat. — It will require from four to six pounds of ground 
veal, according to the size of the turkey. Season with pepper, 
salt, a little ground cloves, juice and grated peel of a lemon, and a 
very small onion chopped fine. Cook in double vessel if you have 
one, as then it will not be necessary to put water with it while 
cooking. When the veal is done remove from the fire, and when 
nearly cold add two beaten eggs, which must be mixed well with 
the forcemeat. Spread the turkey out, skin side down, on the 
table. Have ready a tongue boiled the day before and some nice 
pickled pork. Cut strips from the tongue and run in the legs and 
wings, then stuff the cavities full of the forcemeat. When the legs 
and wings are full, spread a thin layer of the forcemeat on the 
body of the bird, then alternate strips of tongue and pork, then a 
layer of forcemeat, more tongue and pork and so on until the body 
is full. Now carefully draw the edges of the back together with a 
needle and soft twine, and pull the skin of the neck over at the top 
and fasten down at the back. Turn the bird over and run skewers 
through to keep them where they belong. Bind the turkey with 
narrow strips of cloth or broad tape. Break all the bones and lay 
them in a large pan with three bay leaves, a slice of onion and a 
little salt. Lay the turkey in, add boiling water, cover with 
another pan, place over the fire and keep boiling from two to three 
hours. The size and age of the turkey must determine the time 
required to cook it. When tender put in a baking pan with the 
liquor in which it has been cooked, and set in the oven for an 
hour, or until it is an even brown. Set away in a cold place. 

The Jelly. — Put into a saucepan half box of gelatine, soaked 
over night in cold water ; add the liquor from the turkey and keep 
over the fire until the gelatine is dissolved ; strain through flannel 
and pour into shallow pans to cool. 

To Ornament the Turkey. — The next day cut the binding 
and remove the skewers. Place it back down on the dish on which 
it is to be served, cut the jelly into fancy shapes and lay around 
the edge of the dish with celery or parsley leaves ; put fancy shapes 
of jelly on the breast. Cut little shapes from carrots, turnips and 
red beets; alternate them on a silver arrow and run the arrow 
through the jelly on the breast. Put celery or parsley leaves about 
the wings and legs. — C. R. P. 

Roast Turkey. 

Wash turkey well inside and out; place in a pan. Make a 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 37 

dressing with bread crumbs, seasoned highly with pepper and salt ; 
moisten the bread crumbs with a half cup of melted butter ; a can 
of oysters added improves it. Dredge the turkey with flour. 
Turn the fowl often and baste well, so it will be a rich brown all 
over. Put two inches of water in pan at first, and add a little as 
needed. A rich brown gravy will be in the pan if roasted properly. 



DUCK. 

Roast Ducks* 

Ducks should be well plucked, without tearing the skin. Clean 
the inside thoroughly with warm water and stuff them with a dress- 
ing made of bread crumbs, a little onion, sage, pepper, salt and 
butter. Moisten the dressing with the melted butter, so that it will 
be dry. Bake in a moderate oven and baste often. Keep a little 
water in the pan all the time. Make a brown gravy and serve. 



SQUIRREL. 
To Barbecue Squirrel. 

Put some slices of fat bacon in a pan, lay the squirrels on and 
cover with thin slices of bacon. Put in the oven and cook done. 
Take out the squirrel and keep hot. Then remove the bits of 
bacon, sprinkle in flour to thicken gravy and let brown. Add a 
teacup of water, a tablespoon of butter, the juice of a lemon and 
ten teaspoons of good catsup. Pour over the squirrel and serve. 
A little Worcestershire sauce improves this gravy. — Mrs. Ben West. 



CROQUETTES. 

meat Croquettes (Italian). 

Two cups of cold meat, grated cheese, three eggs, one onion, 
one pod garlic, two tablespoonfuls olive oil, one-half cup of milk, 
butter the size of an egg, flour. Chop the meat fine, also the onion 
a»d garlic ; add butter, olive oil. Beat the eggs and add to other 
ingredients; stir a little flour in the milk and add salt and pepper 
to taste. Let the whole be stiff enough with grated cheese to roll 
in little cakes the size of tea cakes, only twice as thick. Roll in 
flour and fry in butter and lard, half portion of each. Make a 
sauce of one-half glass of claret, teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce, 
a little butter, a pinch of flour. Put in the pan croquettes were fried 
in and brown. Serve hot. Any kind of cold meat ran be used 
except mutton. — Miss Rosa Malaiesta. 



38 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Boil one good sized chicken until tender. Remove skin and 
bones and chop fine. Add a small piece of celery, parsley, table- 
spoon butter, teaspoon salt and pepper to suit taste. Boil one tea- 
cup of milk. Dissolve two tablespoonfuls of flour in a little cold 
milk; add one beaten egg. Mix with the chicken. Roll in oval 
shapes, cover with cracker crumbs und drop in hot lard for a few 
minutes. — Mrs. Julia F. Schicd, Cairo. 

Sweetbreads. 

In whatever way sweetbreads are dressed they should first be 
well soaked in lukewarm water and then thrown into boiling water 
to blanch them and render them firm. If lifted out after they have 
boiled ten minutes and plunged into cold water their color will be 
better preserved. They may then be gently stewed for three- 
quarters of an hour in veal gravy, which, with the usual additions 
of cream, lemon and egg yolks may be converted in a fricassee 
sauce for them when they are done. 

Veal Croquettes. 

Three pounds of veal ; boil done and chop two pints of veal 
to one of boiled rice, three eggs, salt and pepper. Make into 
cakes, roll in egg and cracker crumbs. Fry in hot lard. — Mrs. M. 
S. Durham. 

Sweetbread Croquettes. 

Soak a pair of sweetbreads in salt water for an hour. Put in a 
saucepan, cover with boiling water and let cook half an hour. 
Drain and set aside to cool. Trim free of all fat and gristle. Chop 
fine, season with salt, pinch cayenne, a tablespoonful of minced 
parsley and a little nutmeg. Mince one dozen canned mushrooms 
and mix with the sweetbreads. Put one tablespoonful of butter 
into a saucepan, stir over fire until melted, add one tablespconful 
of flour and let cook until it bubbles. Mix in one-half cup of 
cream with two tablespoonfuls of jellied stock, stir until a smooth 
sauce : mix with the sweetbreads, take from fire, spread out on a 
large dish and set on ice until cool. Mold into croquettes, dip first 
in beaten egg, then in cracker meal ; fry in boiling lard ; take up; 
serve at once. — Mrs. O. H. Bentcu. 

Veal Croquettes. 

For three pounds of veal. Fry the veal a little while on one 
side and then turn and fry the other, then add half a teacup of hot 
water. Cover over and set back a little to steam. "When done 
and cold chop and salt. Put on two cups of milk to scald, beat 
four egg yolks and pour the scalded milk slowly over the beaten 
egg yolks, then put on the fire and stir umil done; two cups of 
bread crumbs stirred in. Cover and set bi*ck. To that add a piece 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 39 

of garlic the size of a small pea, small pinch of pulverized cloves 
and nutmeg. Add a large tablespoon of butter, then pour in the 
meat and mold. Dip in egg and cracker crumbs- to fry. — Mrs. R. 
W. Mitchell. 

Hani Croquettes. 

One cupful of cooked ham chopped fine, one ot bread crumbs, 
two of hot mashed potatoes, one tablespoonful of butter, four eggs, 
a pinch of cayenne pepper. Beat potatoes, ham, butter, pepper 
and three eggs well together. Let cool and shape. Roll in bread 
crumbs, dip in beaten egg, then in bread crumbs. D.op in hot 
lard and brown. 

Rice Croquettes. 

One teacupful of rice boiled in the usual way ; drain carefully, 
stir in two well-beaten eggs, one tablespoonful of grated cheese, 
half a tablespoonful of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt. Take a 
little grated ham or chopped chicken, add to it salt and pepper, 
make into a ball the size of a marble, press into the rice, which 
mold around it and fry as you would other croquettes. — Mrs. Ben 
West. 

Salmon Croquettes. 

One can salmon; remove all bones and mash up smooth, salt 
and pepper to taste ; two eggs ; grate bread crumbs until you have 
half as much as you have salmon ; make into three-cornered rolls, 
dip in beaten egg, then roll in dry bread crumbs and fry. — Mrs. 
B. M. Lake. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

One good-sized hen, one-fourth pound of butter, half pint of 
sweet cream, a little ground nutmeg, three tablespoonfuls of flour, 
half pint chicken stock, salt and white pepper to taste, juice of half 
a lemon, one-fourth can mushrooms. Boil the chicken, let it cool, 
remove the meat from the bones, cut in small pieces and chop the 
mushrooms. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, cream 
and stock ; stir for about two minutes, take from the fire, add 
chicken and mushrooms, spread on a dish and let it cool. When 
cold shape in desired form, dip in egg and cracker crumbs, fry in 
boiling hot lard two or three at a time. — E. J. V. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Two sweetbreads, boiled, one teacupful of boiled chicken, 
hashed, one boiled onion one teacupful of boiled bread and milk, 
quarter of a pound of butter, salt and pepper. Chop sweetbreads 
and chicken very fine, mix in well the other ingredients, shape into 
rolls, then dip in the yolk of an egg, then in cracker dust; fry 
brown and serve on crisp lettuce leaves. — Mrs. H. N. Tcnvner. 



40 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 41 



42 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 43 



EGGS. 

Scrambled Eggs. 

Beat eight eggs very light, stir in three tablespoons of sweet 
milk, season with salt and pepper to taste. Put one tablespooniul 
of butter in a hot skillet, pour in the eggs and stir constantly until 
done and serve hot. — Mrs. J. IV. Brush. 

Omelet. 

Beat the whites to a stiff froth and the yolks very light ; add 
to the yolks pepper, salt and a little milk, then beat in the whites 
gently. Have the skillet hot; greased well with butter. Pour the 
omelet on it. Do not stir. When brown roll with a broad knife. 
Chopped ham, grated cheese, or chopped parsley may be added if 
wished. 

Poached Eggs. 

Break the eggs carefully and but on a. wet saucer, from which 
slip them into a shallow saucepan of boiling salted water. Lift 
them in three minutes and serve on buttered toast. 

Sunshiny Eggs. 

Melt two ounces of butter in a clean omelet pan, sprinkle a 
little salt upon it and slip in from a flat saucer the required number 
of eggs. .Fry them, turning up the edges to keep them from spread- 
ing too far, and, when sufficiently cooked, dish, sprinkle with 
pepper and cover with a tomato sauce. The Italians call this 
" Eggs in Purgatory." 

Egg Omelet. 

Five eggs, four tablespoons of flour, one cup of milk, butter 
size of walnut. Beat eggs separately. 

Shirred Egg9. 

As you break the eggs slip them into a small buttered egg cup 
or oval dish, sprinkle salt and pepper over the top. Let stand in a 
hot ove» three minutes and serve. 

Baked Eggs. 

Butter a flat dish, well heated ; break fresh eggs until dish is 
covered ; lay a half dozen thin slices bacon over it, being careful 
not to break the yolks ; put in top of oven and brown slightly. 
Serve hot in same dish. — Mrs. Elizabeth Sanders. 



U THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 45 



VEGETABLES. 



Lvonaisc Potatoes. 

Half dozen cold boiled potatoes, one medium sized onion. 
Slice the potatoes and chop the onion fine. Cover the bottom of a 
baking dish with a layer of potatoes, scatter over them a little 
chopped onion, salt and pepper. Alternate layers of potatoes and 
seasoning until the dish is filled. Cover with bread crumbs, dot 
with small pieces of butter, pour over all a cup of sweet milk and 
bake. 

Parsnips. 

Take two or three parsnips, cut them lengthwise about a 
quarter of an inch thick. Put in salted boiling water ; do not let 
them get too soft. Make a batter of a little milk, one egg and flour 
enough to make like batter-cake batter, salt and pepper. Dip the 
parsnips in this batter and fry in hot skillet with butter ; brown 
lightly. 

Asparagus on Toast. 

With a sharp knife shave the white ends of the asparagus, 
removing all the tough part. Tie the stalks in bunches with <he 
heads one way and boil in salted boiling water twenty-five minutes. 
Toast several slices of bread a delicate brown and lay on a hot 
dish. Remove the asparagus from the water when done, then 
remove the threads. Pour over all a sauce made as follows : Put 
one pint of milk in a double boiler ; when hot stir into it one table- 
spoonful of flour, rubbed smooth in one of butter ; season with salt 
and pepper. 

Creamed Potatoes. 

Pare six good-sized potatoes very thin, remove eyes and lay in 
cold water until time to cook — half an hour at least. Always cook 
potatoes in a porcelain-lined or granite kettle, which have half full 
of boiling (not hot) water. About twenty minutes before needed 
drop potatoes in the boiling water; do not allow them to stop boil- 
ing until done, which will be when a fork can be run in them. 
Drain every particle of water off, set on back of range, add a table- 
spoonful of butter, half teacupful of rich sweetmilk, salt to taste, 
and mash with potato masher until fine, then take a large spoon, 
stir and beat, keeping on range all the time, as the main point is 
having them hot. Serve in hot vegetable dish with cover. After 
placing potatoes in dish smooth over top, make a hole with spoon 
and put a small piece of butter in, toss some black pepper over and 
cover till served. — Mrs. O. H. Benton. 



46 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Boiled Dinner. 

Many people relish a boiled dinner occasionally. Put meat 
on about three hours before dinner in enough boiling water to just 
cover. As soon as it boils set kettle on the stove where it will 
simmer. Skim well before adding vegetables, in the following 
order : Cabbage cut in quarters, turnips of medium size cut in 
halves and potatoes whole, or if very large cut in two. Season 
with salt and pepper and two whole cloves. Boil cabbage one 
hour, potatoes and turnips one-half hour. When thoroughly done 
take up vegetables in separate dishes — lastly the meat. Make a 
brown gravy with the juice and serve in gravy tureen. 

Tomatoes. 

One-half dozen large tomatoes pealed, or one can. Put on 
and boil one-half hour, add one cup sugar, stir well; add a cream 
thickening made of two tablespoonfuls flour and one-half cup water. 
Remove from fire and add one teaspoonful butter. — Mrs. Elizabeth 
Sanders. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes. 

Pare and cut into quarter-inch squares ; leave in cold water 
one-half hour. Boil in hot water, slightly salted until tender (not 
until they break). Drain, put into a greased pudding dish, pour 
over them a cup of warm milk seasoned with pepper and salt and 
a tablespoonful of butter, cut up in one of flour. Bake (covered) 
half an hour, then brown. — Mrs. F. C. Huse. 

Corn Pudding. 

Cut and scrape one dozen ears of corn, put in a pinch of salt 
and pepper each, teaspoon and one-half of butter. Beat two eggs 
and add them. Add small cup of sugar and half cup of sweet 
milk. Bake— Mrs. W. M. Rees. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Select large smooth tomatoes, cut off the stem ends and take 
the seeds out. Make a stuffing of a cupful of dry bread crumbs, a 
teaspoon of chopped onion, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, 
salt and pepper to taste. Stuff the tomatoes with this mixture, 
bake half hour and serve in same dish. The surfing is also very 
nice when made of half bread crumbs and half cooked rice. The 
onions may be omitted. Grated cheese sprinkled over top is an 
addition. — Mrs. O. H. Benton. 

Baked Kgg Plant. 

Boil until tender, then take out inside ; mash with butter, 
pepper, salt and cream and a*n equal quantity of bread crumbs, 
and bake. If mushrooms be added to the stuffi.ig and it is served 
with a mushroom sauce, you have a dish fit for anyone. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 47 

Baked Bgrg: Plant. 

Peel and quarter an egg plant and let it lie for an hour in 
salted water, then cook tender, in salted water also. Drain, break 
and beat with a fork, add an equal quantity of bread crumbs, salt, 
pepper, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one of cream and a few 
minced mushrooms; put in buttered baking dish, sprinkle with 
crumbs and brown. 

Fried EjjS Plant. 

Pare, slice about half an inch thick in round slices, sprinkle 
each with salt, stack and let stand half an hour, drawing bitter 
from it. Dip each slice in beaten egg, then roll in cracker crumbs 
and fry in hot lard. 

Scalloped ligg Plant. 

For an egg plant of medium size fry four sliced tomatoes, add 
a pint of stale bread in cold water and squeezed dry, a little 
cayenne, and if too dry a few spoonfuls of any kind of gravy; put 
this forcemeat in alternate layers with thin slices of the egg plant 
in a buttered baking dish, seasoning each layer with salt and pepper 
to taste, dotting with butter and sprinkling the top with crumbs. 
Bake thirty minutes, covering with plate, then remove and brown 
quickly. 

Green Corn Fritters. 

Put two raw eggs in a large bowl, stir in three tablespoonfuls 
of flour, salt, pepper and a gill of milk ; add a pint of grated or 
pulped corn, mix thoroughly. Fry in boiling lard. 

Corn a la Creme. 

Cut through the center of each row with a sharp knife, and 
scrape the grain from about a dozen ears of corn. Put a frying 
pan on with two tablespoonfuls of butter in it; when it melts add 
corn and cook over a slow fire, closely covered, for ten minutes ; 
pour over half a pint of cream and stew ten minutes longer, season- 
ing to taste. 

Another way, less rich, requires that the corn be cooked in 
just enough water to cover it for twenty minutes; thicken with a 
tablespoonful each of butter and flour, season with salt and pepper, 
add half a pint of milk ; boil up once and serve. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Take ripe tomatoes, cut off the top and take out the inside. 
Mix this with bread crumbs, butter, salt and pepper, then put back 
in the skins and put on top. Bake. 

Potato Puff. 

To two cupfuls of salted, peppered and finely mashed potatoes 
add two tablespoonfuls of melted butter and beat to a white cream. 



48 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Stir in thoroughly two yolks of eggs that have been beaten sepa- 
rately until very light, and then a teacupful of sweet milk. When 
the whole is nicely blended add the whites of the eggs; stir lightly. 
Pile the mass upon a hot buttered dish and bake about ten minutes. 

— C. C. F. 

Corn Oysters. 

One quart grated corn, three eggs (yolks and whites beaten 
separately), four large crackers softened. Fry in hot lard and but- 
ter as you would oysters. — Mrs. Luke Finlay. 

Stuffed Egg Plant. 

Cut them in half, lengthwise, and parboil in salt water ; scoop 
out most of the inside and put in chopping bowl, with it a handful 
of dry mushrooms previously soaked in warm water for half an 
hour, one small onion, pepper and salt to taste, a cup of grated 
bread or cracker dust, a cup of Holland cheese. Chop well to- 
gether and then add two or three beaten eggs, a lump of butter size 
of an egg. Fill each half with this mixture, lay them in a buttered 
tin and bake half an hour. This dressing will fill six small egg 
plants. — Mrs. H. N. Towner. 

German Noodles. 

One quart of flour, three eggs and sufficient water to make a 
stiff dough. Pour upon kneading board and knead for fifteen or 
twenty minutes, or until the dough becomes perfectly smooth and 
will roll out without any trouble. Divide into three parts, roll into 
thin sheets as for pie crust, and put aside to dry. When dry 
enough to roll (do not leave them too long, or they will crack) cut 
into very narrow strips and drop into boiling water, to which has 
been added a handful of salt. Cook twenty minutes. 

Dressing. — Three-quarters of a cup of butter, three onions 
chopped fine ; brown butter and onions. Add one can of tomatoes, 
a little red pepper, salt, a stalk of celery, and parsley and thyme, 
if it is liked ; also a few bits of beef or chicken. Into a baking 
dish place a layer of the dressing, then a layer of noodles, from 
which all water has been drained, then a layer of grated Italian 
cheese, and so on until the dish is full, having gravy and cheese 
for last layer. Bake ?n a quick oven until nicely browned. — Mrs. 
C. Meister. 

Stuffed Irish Potatoes. 

Take medium sized potatoes, wash, put in oven, and bake. 
When done cut in halves, scoop out (reserving hulls), mash, 
season with butter, pepper, salt and a little onion minced fine ; 
return t© hulls, set on ends in a pan, put in oven and brown. 
Serve hot on folded napkin in dish. If onion is not liked, omit. 
A little pork sausage can be used. — Mrs. O. H. Benton. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 49 

Boston Baked Beans. 

Soak one pint of little navy beans over night. In the morning 
put them in a bean jar with hot water enough to cover well ; add 
one large tablespoonful of butter or a piece of pickled pork, 
three tablespoonfuls of molasses, salt and pepper to taste. Keep 
them well covered with water, occasionally shaking the jar to 
stir. Cook ten or twelve hours. — Mrs. Levings. 

Saratoga Chips. 

Take four large potatoes; pare and slice on slaw cutter very 
thin ; put in cold and let stand until crisp, then take out and dry 
between towels. Drop a small handful into a kettle of hot lard ; 
when a light brown take out with a wire ladle and put on paper, 
which absorbs the grease. Sprinkle with salt and serve. 

Cream Cabbage. 

Slice cabbage as for cold slaw, and boil until tender. Drain 
off water, and add about one pint of milk. Cream together one 
large spoon butter and two of flour; add to the cabbage and boil 
for a'few minutes. Season to taste, using white pepper. — Mrs. C. 
Meisler. 

Macaroni Italiana. 

For six persons. Two pounds of rump beef, one-half can of 
tomatoes, one medium size onion, one soup bunch, one pod of 
garlic, one cup of dry mushrooms, butter size of an egg, small piece 
salt pork, two tablespoonfuls olive oil, salt and pepper to taste. 
Cook two or two and one-half hours. Macaroni two pounds, 
grated Edam cheese. 

Sauce. — Chop salt pork (size of an egg) very fine and put it 
into an iron slew pan, fry out, add olive oil. Take a little of all 
parts of soup bunch, cut fine and let fry ; add onion cut fine. Be 
careful to keep stirred and do not let scorch, as the taste will then 
be spoiled. Then take the beef and put in ; let cook about half an 
hour, constantly turning. Add one-half can of tomatoes, chopped 
fine, with their liquor in them, letting all stew slowly. Take the 
dry mushrooms, wash them clear of all dust and soak in water on 
stove until tender ; add to the stew and let cook slowly. The pod 
of garlic (cut fine) can be put in at any time. Cook for two or two 
and one-half hours. When the mushrooms are put in add water 
enough, with the other ingredients already in kettle, to make three 
large cups of sauce. Take out the meat. 

Cook the macaroni in salt water; that is, salt the water to 
taste, and be sure the water is boiling. Always buy the best 
Italian macaroni, which requires at least twenty minutes' boiling. 
When cooked, drain off in colander and place in flat platter, 
sprinkle with grated cheese alternately until all is used in dish, 
making the last layer very thick with gravy. Serve with gcod 
claret. — Miss Rosa Malates'ta. 



50 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Macaroni in Genoese Style. 

Have at hand and ready the following ingredients, viz.: One 
and one-half teacups of grated Edam cheese, about three quarters 
of a pcund of lean beef or chicken cut into cubes of not less than 
one-half inch, one medium size onion chopped very fine, one small 
piece of garlic chopped fine, three tablespoons of finely chopped 
parsley, one-half can tomatoes and one-half teacup of cleaned dried 
mushrooms. Put the mushrcoms in saucepan, over which pour 
enough warm water to cover the mushrooms, and place on back of 
range. Also have ready macaroni, olive oil and creamery butter. 

Preparation of Gravy. — Put into quart size saucepan three 
tablespoons of pure olive oil and one heaping tablespoon of 
creamery butter and allow to become very hot, stirring meanwhile 
to prevent burning. Now put the meat into saucepan with oil and 
butter and let cook to a light brown color, then add to the stew the 
onion and garlic. When the last two are brown put in the tomatoes 
and allow to stew about ten minutes, then add the mushrooms with 
the liquor in which they have been soaked, and also the parsley, 
and season with pepper and salt to taste, and allow to stew until 
the whole is the consistency of gravy, stirring the while to keep 
from burning. 

Boiling the Macaroni.— Place about three-fourths of a 
pound of macaroni or spaghetti in porcelain-lined pot containing 
one and one-half gallons oi boiling water, to which add tablespoon 
of salt. Allow to boil until the paste will mash easily between the 
fingers when it is done, then pour the paste into collander and 
drain thoroughly of water. Take ordinary steak dish and sprinkle 
layer of grated cheese in same of not over one-sixteenth inch in 
thickness, then pour in gravy to thickness of say one-eighth inch, 
then put as much macaroni in dish on the cheese and gravy as 
you wish to have, over which pour more gravy. *Be careful not to 
put too much gravy on. Then mix up thoroughly and dress up 
the dish to even thickness. 

It takes the macaroni about twenty minutes to cook, so while 
you are making the gravy you can tell very nearly when to put the 
macaroni to cooking so as to have the gravy and maccaroni done 
about the same time. — R. E. Lee. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



51 



52 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 53 



SALADS. 

In warm weather, if there is any dish which will tempt a 
wavering appetite it is certainly a well made, prettily decorated, 
ice cold salad. Sydney Smith prided himself upon the excellence 
of his salads and wrote a rhymed recipe for the mayonaise. But 
many a little housewife has the requisite qualities to enable her to 
make nice salads without any assistance, save her own keen sense 
of taste, quick perception and excellent judgment. Fortunately it 
is not of necessity to go into a hot kitchen to prepare a salad, as it 
may frequently be made of left-overs from the table or vegetables 
fresh from the garden and refrigerators. 

Lettuce is so pliant that it readily incorporates with its own 
mild flavor any taste or smell that may be added, and therefore 
furnishes a most desirable basis for a salad. Its crisp, fresh golden- 
green appearance, especially when fringed and curled, commends 
it to the eye as much as its faintly delicate flavor does to the 
palate. 

Tomato Jelly. 

One can of tomatoes, one bay leaf, six cloves, three table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, one tablespoonful of salt, pinch of cayenne 
pepper, three-fourths box of gelatine, one onion. Soak the gela- 
tine in cold water. Cook the tomatoes thirty minutes, in which 
has been placed the onion, cloves, bay leaf and vinegar. Then 
pour gelatine in and remove from fire immediately and strain. Add 
chopped breast of turkey or chicken, as much celery as you have 
chicken, one and one-half cups of pecans. Mold in individual 
molds. Serve on leaf of lettuce with spoonful of mayonaise. 

— Mrs. George B. Peters. 

Oyster Salad. 

To make this dish select large, plump oysters. Allow six to 
each person. Parboil them in their own liquor and drain quite 
dry. Cut the oysters in bits and mix them with the heart of some 
fresh lettuce broken in small pieces. The sauce, which is really 
the success of the dish : One egg should be used for every two 
persons. Boil them twenty minutes and then plunge into cold 
water ; separate the whites from the yolks, cut the whites into small 
bits and add to oysters and lettuce. Place the yolks on a flat- 
bottomed dish or soup plate, if a small quantity is to be made. To 
the boiled yolks add the raw ones in the proportion of one to every 
six cooked eggs. Reserve the whites for future use. With a spoon 
mash together the cooked and raw yolks of eggs. Then pour in 
olive oil slowly, stirring vigorously all the time. Continue adding 



54 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

oil and stirring until a sufficient quantity is obtained that is like a 
mayonaise. Then add mustard, salt, lemon juice, pepper to 
taste. Lastly, beat the whites of eggs stiff and stir into the dress- 
ing. The addition of the white of the egg gives a creamy quality 
to the dressing. When finished pour, just before serving, over 
oysters and lettuce. — Mrs. O. H. Beniou. 

Tomato Salad. 

Take eight good-sized tomatoes, pour boiling water over to 
remove skin, take out inside and put shells on ice. Take two 
good-sized cucumbers, chop fine and add to tomato pulp ; put this 
mixture into a colander, drain as dry as possible, add a very little 
onion; season with salt and pepper to taste. Just before serving 
stir iii two tablespoonfuls of stiff mayonaise; put in shell, dress 
top with a little mayonaise; serve on lettuce. — Mrs. R. W. 
Harris. 

Hani Salad. 

Chop ham, first removing all fat; boil two eggs hard. Chop 
pickle enough for ham, that is, to give it the desired taste ; season 
with pepper. A little vinegar and salad dressing improves it. 

Cold Slaw Dressing:. 

Beat two eggs in a double boiler, add a gill of vinegar and 
water mixed, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a level tea- 
spoonful of salt and one ot sugar. Cook and stir until it becomes 
thick. Have it cold before pouring over the slaw. 

Salad Dressing:. 

One tablespoonful butter, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls sugar 
one heaping teaspoonful mustard, one cup vinegar, one cup milk, 
a little salt and pepper. Beat eggs well, add sugar, then mustard 
(dissolved in a little vinegar or milk) vinegar and milk ; cook in a 
double boiler until thick as custard ; set away to cool ; pour over 
salad. — Mrs. A. R. Taylor. 

Chicken and Walnut Salad. 

To one chicken weighing three pounds use one pound English 
walnuts. Boil chicken until tender. Blanch walnuts and skin 
carefully. Cut breast of chicken in small pieces and add walnuts. 
Pour over these a rich mayonaise dressing. — Mrs. J. H. Sullivan. 

Waldorf Salad. 

Pare, core and cut into dice four large tart apples, add to them 
a quart of celery cut into half-inch pieces. Dust over a teaspoonful 
salt, a teaspoonful paprika and two tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar. 
Mix all together and stir in a cup and one-half stiff mayonaise. 

— Mrs. J. A. Taylor. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 55 

Salad Dressing- Without Oil. 

Beat three eggs in an earthenware dish and add to them a cup 
of vinegar, a teaspoon of salt, half teaspoon white pepper and half 
teaspoon of mustard. When this is thoroughly blended put in six 
tablespoons of cream (sweet or sour) : beat again. Set the dish in 
boiling water over the fire and stir until thick as custard. 

— Mrs. Gelon Craft. 

IHayonaise Dressing:. 

One tablespoonful of Coleman mustard, three yolks of eggs, 
one saltspoon of salt, dash of cayenne pepper, juice of one lemon, 
three-fourths pint of olive oil, teaspoon tarragon vinegar. Beat yolks 
and add mustard, stir in oil gradually, then add salt and pepper. 
When about one-half oil is in put in vinegar, lastly juice of lemon. 
Make one and one-half hour before using and place on ice to get 
firm.. Cross and Blackwell's vinegar is best. — Mrs. R. B. Maury. 

Celery Salad and Cocoanut Dressing. 

Cut the nice, tender parts of celery, as for any salad, and put 
them in a bowl. Grate a cocoanut and pour over it a pint of boil- 
ing water. Let it stand until the water is cold, then with your 
hands squeeze the coacoanut in the water, then press the pulp out 
and throw it away. Strain the milky water through cheesecloth 
and let it stand until a cream rises on top. Just before sending 
celery to the table scatter over it a tablespoonful of grated onion, a 
little fresh red pepper, or a dash of cayenne, and a half teaspoonful 
of salt. Skim the cream from the top of the cocoanut milk and 
put over the celery, then add two tablespoons of lemon juice. 

— Mrs. W. J. Crawford. 

Salmon Salad. 

One can salmon, half dozen small cucumber pickles (chopped 
fine), two hard boiled eggs (chopped fine). Mix all well together. 
Take a cup of vinegar and bring it to a boil, pour over the other 
ingredients, season with pepper, salt, mustard and Worcestershire 
sauce to taste. — Mrs. O. T. Jaquess. 

Orange Salad. 

Six large oranges, five cents worth each of crystalized cherries, 
English walnuts, three bananas, cocoanut, or anything else you 
fancy. First cut the oranges through (crosswise through the mid- 
dle), making two cups of each orange skin. Take all the pulp from 
the oranges, being careful not to make any holes in the "cups." 
Remove all the seeds, using only the pulp and juice. Sweeten to 
taste, add one-fourth box of gelatine (soaked in warm water), set on 
stove for a few moments. The fruit should be cut in fine pieces 
before adding to the salad. Fill the cups, let stand until cold and 
serve with whipped cream. — Mrs. S. C. Emery. 



56 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Mavonaisc Dressing:. 

Yolks of three eggs and a teaspoon of salt beaten well together. 
Pour in oil and beat until thick, then the juice of one lemon, and 
a little red pepper. — Mrs. Luke //". Finlay. 

Shrimp Salad. 

The yolks of two eggs teaten with a teaspoonful of salt, one 
teaspoonful of French mustard, one-half teaspoonful of Tabasco 
pepper, nearly a bottle of Olive oil. Beat your eggs as light as pos- 
sible, add the oil very gradually, squeeze the juice of a lemon in 
the dressing and pour over the shrimps, after arranging them on a 
dish with lettuce leaves around the edges. — Mrs. H. B. Martin. 

Tomato Relish. 

Select firm tomatoes, peel and slice thin ; add tablespoonful 
sugar, a teaspoonful salt and a little dry mustard. Serve ice cold. 
These are excellent. — Mrs. C. Meister. 

Cbeese Sticks. 

One cup grated cheese, one cup of flour, two-thirds cup of but- 
ter, a pinch of cayenne pepper and salt to taste, yolk of an egg 
well beaten and added to two tablespoons of sweet milk. Use just 
enough of this to mix the dough ; roll out, cut in strips one-half 
inch wide and bake on fiat tins in a slow oven. — Mrs. W. A. 
Goodman. 

Oyster Salad. 

Half a gallon of fresh oysters, one quart of chopped celery, 
yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, one raw egg whipped, two large 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, two teaspoonfuls each of salt, black 
pepper and made mustard, one teacup of vinegar and two pickled 
cucumbers chopped fine. Put one pint of vinegar in a saucepan, 
place on the stove ; when hot drop in the oysters from which the 
liquor has been drained, and let them stay until plump (not cooked), 
prepare a few at a time this way until all are plump ; skim out the 
oysters, drop for a few moments in cold water, drain and set in a 
cool place. Prepare the dressing by rubbing together the yolks, 
salt, pepper and mustard ; add the butter a little at a time, then 
the beaten raw egg, then the vinegar. Mix the oysters, celery and 
pickle by tossing up with a silver fork, salt to taste. Pour the 
dressing over all and serve. — Mrs. C. N. Churchill. 

Sweetbread Salad. 

Clean thoroughly two sets of sweetbreads and boil till tender 
in salted water ; when cool, chop into small pieces ; take as many 
tomatoes as neeeed (allowing one for each person); select nice, firm 
ones, not over-ripe, wash and dry without bruising, slice off the top 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 57 

of each tomato, and with a sharp knife scoop out the pulp, taking 
care not to cut or injure the shells in any way; chop the pulp fine, 
add it to the sweetbreads, season with pepper, salt, a tiny bit of 
sugar and mustard, add vinegar to suit the taste ; fill the tomato 
shells with this mixture and serve cold. This is a delicious salad. 

— Mrs. C. N. Churchill. 

Shrimp Salad. 

Chop the shrimp into small pieces and put into a bowl ; take 
for dressing two eggs beaten until light, one teaspoon mustard and 
one of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, one-half cup of vinegar ; 
place this on the stove, stirring constantly until it becomes as thick 
as rich cream ; take this off to cool ; add a scant teaspoonful of salt, 
four tablespoons of cream ; olive oil may be used instead of cream 
if preferred, but it should be dropped very slowly ; pour this over 
the shrimp, and it is ready for use. When cold, chopped celery 
adds very much to the salad. — Mrs. H. L. Feild. 

Chicken Salad No. x. 

Boil one chicken till very tender in salted water, chop when 
cool, take out pieces of skin, fat and bones, chop two bunches of 
celery; make a paste of the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, a table- 
spoonful of melted butter or olive oil, salt, pepper and made mus- 
tard to taste, and one tablespoonful of Worcester sauce ; add to the 
paste one teacupful of warm vinegar. Pour this dressing over the 
chicken and celery, mix well and serve cold on crisp lettuce 
leaves; garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg. 

Chicken Salad No. 2. 

Boil three chickens till tender, salting to taste, and add six or 
eight bunches of celery cut into small pieces, and eight hard-boiled 
eggs chopped fine. For dressing beat two or three eggs well, add 
one scant tablespoonful of salt, two of sugar, two of made mustard, 
two of Worcester sauce, one large tablespoonful of butter or one- 
half cup of olive oil ; cook till all the ingredients are well blended, 
add slowly one pint of vinegar, cook, stirring constantly till of a 
thick, creamy consistency, remove and cool. Pour the dressing 
over the chopped chicken, celery and eggs; mix thoroughly. This 
salad is sufficient for twenty persons, and is excellent. — Mrs. C. 
N. Churchill. 

Chicken Salad. 

Boil two chickens in as little water as possible ; when done skin 
and pick from the bones; cut with scissors in small pieces ; cut up 
six stalks of celery in the same sized pieces ; boil one dozen eggs 
hard, cut the whites like the celery ; put all in a bowl large enough 
to mix all the ingredients. Mash the yolks, adding a quarter pound 



58 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

of melted butter gradually, making a smooth paste ; then a table- 
spoonful of mustard, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful 
cayenne pepper, six tablespoonfuls of vinegar ; boil the water down 
the chickens were cooked in very low, add six tablespoonfuls of it 
to the dressing. Pour the dressing over the chicken, celery and 
eggs; mix well. The salad is improved by using mayonaise 
dressing for those who like oil. — M.J. H. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 59 



60 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 61 



PASTRY. 

In making pastry have lard and water ice cold and handle as 
deftly as possible. Too much water makes pastry tough. 

" Just Enough for One Pie." 

One coffeecupful flour, lard the size of an egg, a little salt, 
enough ice water to moisten. Handle as little as possible. 

One pint sifted flour, one-half teacup lard, plenty of salt, as 
little water as possible and that ice cold. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

For each pie use one egg, one-half teacup sugar, two table- 
spoons pumpkin, half pint rich milk or cream, a little salt. Season 
with nutmeg or cinnamon. — Mrs. J. H. Sullivan. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

Sift through a fine sieve for each pie one-half cup of pumpkin, 
one and one-half of boiling milk, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a 
quarter teaspoon of cinnamon, also ginger and nutmeg. Beat sugar 
and eggs together, add pumpkin, spice and lastly boiling milk, 
stirring quickly. Bake in piepan with rich pastry — bottom crust 
only. — Mrs. O. H. Benton. 

Squash Pie. 

Sift through a fine sieve. For each pie one-half cup of squash, 
one and one-half cup of boiling milk, two spoonfuls of sugar, two 
eggs, teaspoon cinnamon, also ginger or nutmeg. Beat together, 
pour boiling milk on it, stirring quickly. — Mrs. H. F. Dix. 

Jelly Pies. 

One-half cup butter and one cup sugar stirred to a cream, then 
add the yolks of five eggs, one cup of jelly, and last add the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in one crust. — Mrs. O. 7. 
Jaquess. 

Lemon Pie. 

For two pies juice of three lemons, one cup sugar, yolks of 
six eggs, one cup milk ; stir sugar and lemon juice together, then add 
yolks of eggs ; two tablespoonfuls of sifted flour, stir the flour in 
about one-quarter of a cup of milk to mix, add to the sugar and 
eggs, and last add the cup of milk ; bake in one crust ; while bak- 
ing beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add a cup of sugar, 
put on the pies when done, sprinkle over them a little sugar and 
brown in a slow oven. — Mrs. H. E. Hanson. 



62 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Molasses Pies. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, one- 
half cup molasses, four eggs, leaving out the whites of two, one 
tablespoonful vanilla ; beat butter and sugar to a cream, add the 
well-beaten eggs and other ingredients ; place in double boiler and 
cook until thick ; pour into baked crusts, and bake for fifteen min- 
utes. This makes two large pies. — Mrs. C. Meister. 

Mince Meat. 

One beef heart, three pounds lean beef; boil till tender; let 
stand over night to get thoroughly cold ; pick bones, gristle or 
stringy bits from meat and heart, chop very fine, mincing at the 
same time two pounds suet, shredded seed, and cut three pounds 
of raisins, three pounds of currants, slice thin a pound of citron, 
chop fine four quarts good cooking tart apples ; put in a large pan 
together, add two tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, one of cloves, one 
of ginger, one of ground nutmeg, the juice and rind of two lemons, 
the rind of one orange, juice of three oranges, if you have any juice 
of sweet pickle is an addition, a pint of good cider ; set pan on 
range and heat hot, pack in stone jar ; if liked when baking add 
wine or brandy to taste. — Mrs. O. If. Benton. 

Chocolate Pie. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one of water, two and one-half of sweet 
milk, one-quarter cake of baker's chocolate, three tablespoonfuls of 
corn starch, five eggs. Take one cup of milk, the water and 
chocolate, boil and cool ; then stir in the other ingredients, saving 
the whites the meringue; flavor with vanilla to taste. Bake in 
pie pans covered with pastry. When done spread meringue on 
top and brown. 

Meringue. — Beat eggs light, add three-quarters of a cup of 
sugar slowly. — Mrs. F. C. Huse. 

Delicious Lemon Pie. 

Rind and juice of one lemon, one cup sugar, three-fourths cup 
of water or boiled milk, tablespoonful of flour, four eggs. Beat 
the yolks and two whites of the eggs thoroughly, add sugar, then 
flour, then the milk or water (if the milk is not perfectly fresh use 
water), lastly add the juice and grated rind of a lemon. Pour into 
a large pie tin lined with pastry and bake in slow oven. Make a 
meringue of the whites of two eggs and drop over the top of the 
pie ; return to the oven and bake a delicate brown. — Mrs. S. H. 
Milburn. 

Fine Pastry for Pies. 

In making fine pastry it is necessary to have everything as cold 
as possible. Into the cold chopping bowl weigh twelve ounces of 
flour, nine ounces of fresh butter. Chop together until the lumps 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 63 

ef butter are the size of hazlenuts. Make a hole in the center. 



add the yolk of an egg, a teaspoon of salt, scant spoonful of lemon 
juice and one gill of ice water. Mix all together with two fingers ; 
do not knead. The dough must look very rough. If not perfectly 
cold place it where it will be chilled until ready for use. 

Peach Pie. 

To make one large enough for six persons sift one pint of flour 
in a deep bowl and chop in it one quarter pound of best lard until 
it is as fine as sand. Then wet with ice water and make into a 
stiff dough. Roll it out into a thin sheet upon a smooth board or 
marble slab, spread with one-eighth of a pound of good, sweet 
butter, fold and roll again, when spread with one-eighth of a pound 
of butter the second time, fold, lay on ice for fifteen minutes, and 
finally roll once more into a thin sheet. Butter the bottom and 
sides of a deep pudding dish of two-quart capacity and line sides 
only with the pastry. Fill the dish with peaches pared and halved, 
sprinkle well with sugar, cover top with the crust, bake in a moderate 
oven. Serve cold with cream. — Mrs. O. H. Benton. 

Cream Pie. 

Place one pint of milk on stove until hot, but not boiling, add 
one cup of sugar, one-half cup of flour and the yolks of two eggs 
well beaten. Stir rapidly until well cooked. Flavor with lemon 
or vanilla, then pour over your crust (which must be a rich puff 
paste). Prick crust before cooking to prevent puffing up. Beat 
whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth, add three tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar, pour over pie, place in oven until a light brown. 

—Mrs. H. F. Dix. 

Orange Ice. 

One dozen oranges, one can apricots, three lemons, one quart 
water, one pint sugar. Cut across oranges and dig out centers ; 
also lemons. Rub apricots through a sieve, boil sugar and strain 
all together through cheese cloth. — Mrs. Mary Jordan. 

Puff Paste. 

One pound of best flour (sifted), one of butter. Place the flour 
on marble slab, make well in center, squeeze half lemon and add 
yolk of egg beaten with a little ice water, stir with one hand and 
drop in ice water until paste is as hard as the butter. Roll paste 
in smooth squares an inch thick ; smooth sides with rolling pin : 
spread butter over half the paste, lay the other half in cool 
place for fifteen minutes. Repeat the folding process six times, 
allowing fifteen minutes between each rolling, and the paste is 
ready for use. Handle as little as possible through whole process. 
Rich paste requires a quick oven. — S. M. B. 



64 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND 65 



66 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 67 



PUDDINGS. 



Feather Pudding 1 . 

Whites of two eggs, one cup sweet milk, two cups flour, one 
cup sugar, one and one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder, butter 
size of walnut creamed with the sugar, add flour and milk and last 
the eggs and flavor, bake. Serve with wine sauce. — M?s. Eliza- 
beth Sanders. 

Fig Pudding. 

One-fourth pound of figs chopped fine, two cups of bread 
crumbs, one cup of brown sugar, one-fourth of a pound of suet 
chopped fine, two eggs, the grated rind and juice of one lemon, 
one tablespoonful of molasses, half teaspoonful of nutmeg, one 
tablespoon ful of flour ; mix well and steam in a bag three hours. 
Serve with a sauce made of creamed butter with sugar beaten in. 
Flavor with a few drops of lemon extract. — Mrs. F. C. Huse. 

Genuine English Plum Pudding. 

One pound suet, one pound raisins, one pound sultana raisins, 
one pound currants, three-quarter pound bread crumbs, one-half 
pound flour, one pound brown sugar, one-half pound mixed orange 
and lemon peel, one pound grated carrots, one teaspoonful salt, 
one nutmeg, one spoonful mixed spice, nine eggs ; mix the dry 
ingredients together, make a hole in the center, add eggs, then 
milk enough to make proper consistency, boil in a cloth or basin 
five or six hours. (Fine.) — Mrs. O. T. Jaquess. 

Rice Pudding. 

Three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, one pint of milk, 
one-half cup of raisins seeded, one cup of boiled rice, and a little 
nutmeg ; beat eggs and sugar till light, add rice, then the raisins, 
then nutmeg, lastly the milk, stirring well ; bake one hour. 

— Martha Rushton. 

Custard Puffs. 

One-half cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, one of raisins, 
stoned, two cups of flour, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, three eggs, 
two teaspoons of baking powder ; steam in buttered cups one-half 
hour and serve with liquid sauce. — Mrs. H. F. Dix. 

Bread Pudding. 

Three eggs, one cup of bread crumbs (which have been soaked 
in a little milk until moist), one pint of milk. Beat the yolks of 
the eggs light, add the bread crumbs, beat, then add milk. Bake 



68 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

three-quarters of an hour. Draw from oven, spread over top any 
acid jelly or preserves, the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
to which have been added two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 
Place over the jelly, return to oven and bake a light brown. 

Sauce — One tablespoonful of flour, one of butter, one of 
syrup and a coffeecup of boiling water. Put butter and flour in 
small saucepan, brown, stirring so as not to scorch, then add other 
ingredients, and, after cooking fifteen minutes, add teaspoon vanilla. 

— Martha Ritshlon. 

Orange .Snow Pudding-. 

Soak half a package of gelatine in a gill of cold water for two 
hours, dissolve in half pint boiling water, add a cupful of sugar and 
set the basin within another of boiling water. When the sugar and 
gelatine are thoroughly dissolved add three gills of orange juice 
(about six oranges) and strain. When cool add the unbeaten whites 
of six eggs and stand in a pan of ice while you whip until thick 
and white. Turn into mold or individual molds to harden ; set in 
refrigerator. Serve with a custard made from the yolks of the eggs 
or whipped cream. — Mrs. O. If. Benton. 

Strawberry Short Cake. 

One quart flour, one teaspoon salt, two teaspoons baking 
powder, three tablespoons butter, one egg, two tablespoons white 
sugar and about half pint of sweet milk. Sift flour, powder and 
salt together, rub in the butter cold with hands, add the egg slightly 
beaten, then the sugar and milk and mix into a smooth dough, just 
soft enough to be easily handled. Roll out in two pieces (quite 
thin) to size required. Lay one on top of the other and bake in a 
hot oven in a well greased pan about fifteen minutes and separate 
while warm — not hot. Use one for the bottom crust, cover with a 
layer of berries, then lay on the other piece and cover as before. 
Serve with powdered sugar and cream. 

The above will make a large cake; half the" quantities w ill 
make a fair size one. — Mrs. O. H. Benton. 

Creme Renversee. 

Boil one quart of milk and pour slowly over eight eggs, beat 
well with one-half pound of sugar, then strain it into a mold into 
which a little sugar and water has been allowed to boil until a little 
brown, then place the mold in a pan of boiling water, place in the 
oven moderately heated and let cook until thick enough to turn on 
a plate ; as soon as the mold is removed from oven place in a pan 
of cold water ; serve cold. 

Sauce. — Three-quarters tumbler of sugar, one tumbler of water, 
boiled a tew minutes, into this turn three-quarters tumbler of sugar 
browned nicely and add one tablespoonful brandy. — Mrs. R. B. 
Maury. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 69 

Queen of Puddings. 

One pint bread crumbs, one quart sweet milk ; one teacup 
sugar, one tablespoon butter, one grated lemon, four eggs ; beat 
the eggs (saving out two whites for the icing) ; stir in the sugar and 
butter, then add the milk, crumbs and lemon ; when done spread 
acid jelly over the top and cover this with an icing made of three 
whites and three tablespoons of sugar flavored with lemon. 

Make a sauce of one. teacup of sugar and two-thirds teacup of 
water; let boil ten minutes and pour over the yolk of an egg, 
which has been whipped, stir rapidly while pouring, flavor. 

— Miss Annie Mc Clung. 

Sponge Cake Pudding No. 2. 

Three eggs (for custard), a pint and a half of sweet milk, three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, one tablespoonful of flour; when custard 
is made pour over one dozen "lady fingers" or any kind of plain 
cake that has been soaked in wine ; use the yolks of the eggs for 
custard, using the whites to put over the top ; beat the whites stiff, 
add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, flavor with lemon and spread over 
it; serve cold. — Mrs. Yates. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

One generous pint of dry bread crumbs soaked in one quart 
of sweet milk for half an bour, beat one cup of sugar and three egg 
yolks together with one tablespoon of butter, melt two tablespoons 
of chocolate grated or scraped, add it to the bowl, mix all together 
and bake thirty-five minutes; then add a meringue made of the 
egg whites beaten light, with three tablespoons of sugar stirred in, 
also one spoonful of vanilla; brown slightly. — Mrs. R. W. 
Mitchell. 

Fig Pudding. 

Three cups of bread crumbs, one cup of sugar, one cup of 
beef suet (or butter), one cup of milk, two eggs, three-quarters 
pound of figs chopped fine, a little salt and spice to taste. Boil 
two hours, and serve with brandy sauce. — F. Ellen Shanks. 

Shaker Plum Pudding. 

One quart bread crumbs mixed with one pint stoned raisins, 
one pint currants and a little citron. Mix three eggs, some milk 
and a little salt well, then add the fruit and bread crumbs and let 
stand. Boil in mold or floured cloth about one and one-half hours 
and serve with hard sauce or any pudding sauce preferred. 

— Mrs. W. A. Gage. 

Woodford Pudding. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, lour eggs, three cups flour, 
one cup blackberry jam, one cup raisins, one teaspoonful of allspice, 
cinnamon, nutmeg and ginger, one teaspoon baking powder in 



70 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

flour, one-half teaspoon soda in jam, and last add one-half cup of 
buttermiik. Bake in a moderate oven. Eat with hard sauce. 

— Mrs. J. K. Waller, Morgan field, Ky. 

Economical Plum Pudding. 

One teacup water, three teacups flour, one ©f raisins (whole), 
one teacup molasses, one heaping teaspoon soda, butter size of an 
egg. Stew three hours. 

Sauce. — One teacup sugar, butter size of an egg beaten well 
together, then add yolk of well beaten egg, then add white and 
beat all very hard. Season with mace or nutmeg. — Mrs. J. H. 
Sullivan. 

Orange Pudding. 

Grate the yellow part of the rind and squeeze the juice of two 
large oranges, stir to a cream one-half pound of butter and one-half 
pound of fine white sugar, add a wine glass of mixed wine and 
brandy. Beat very light six eggs and stir them gradually into the 
mixture. Put into a butter dish, around which lay a border of puft 
paste. Bake it half an hour. When cool grate sugar over it. For 
lemon pudding substitute lemons for oranges. 

Sauce. — Beat one-half pound of butter to a cream, stir in one- 
half pound of sugar, add the yolk of an egg, one gill of wine. 
Place it on a slow fire. — Mrs. Luke. W. Finlay. 

Suet Pudding. 

One egg, one-half cup of suet chopped fine, one half cup of 
molasses, one-half cup of sweet milk, one cup of raisins, one and 
one-half cups of flour, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one-quarter of 
a nutmeg, one even spoon of soda; steam two and one half hours. 

Sauce. — One and one-half cups of brown sugar, one cup of 
butter, two cups of boiling water, and two tablespoons of flour, 
flavor with wine or brandy. — Mrs-. S. C. Emery. 

Sauce for Cake. 

One cup of sugar, two-thirds cup of butter, one egg ; cream 
sugar and butter, then beat in yolk, and put on fire to heat thor- 
oughly, stir in the well beaten white ; if too thick, pour in a little 
boiling water ; flavor when cool with wine. 

Hartford Pudding. 

Cup of molasses beaten up with one cup suet chopped fine, 
one cup currants, one cup of milk, one teaspoon cream tartar, one 
half teaspoon soda, and three cups flour ; beat up and put in a bag 
and boil three or four hours on a very hot fire. 

Sauce. — One-half pound of sugar, juice of a lemon, one- 
quarter pound butter ; put in a cool place until the pudding is 
done. — Mrs. W. M. Rees. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 71 

Fried Cream. 

Ingredients — One pint of milk, little more than half a cupful 
sugar, butter size of a hickory nut, yolks of three eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls of corn starch, and one tablespoonful of flour (a gener- 
ous half cup altogether), stick of cinnamon and one-half teaspoon 
of vanilla; put the cinnamon in the milk, and when it is just about 
to boil stir in sugar, and corn starch and flour, the two latter 
rubbed smooth with two or three tablespoonfuls of extra cold milk, 
stir over fire for fully two minutes, take from fire, stir in the beaten 
eggs, return a few minutes to set them ; now again take from fire, 
remove the cinnamon, stir in butter and vanilla, and pour on but- 
tered platter until one-third of an inch high ; when cold and stiff 
cut into parallelograms about one inch wide and three long, roll 
carefully in sifted cracker crumbs, thin in egg, slightly sweetened 
and again in cracker crumbs, dip into boiling hot lard until a fine 
color, and place in hot oven for four or five minutes to better soften 
the pudding; serve immediately. — Mrs. H. D. Hall. 

'Woodford Pudding-. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half 
cup of flour, one cup of jam or preserves, one teaspoon of soda dis- 
solved in three teaspoons of sour milk, cinnamon and nutmeg to 
taste, mix well and bake slowly. 

Sauce. — One cup of brown sugar, beaten well with yolks 
of three eggs, and one large teaspoon of butter ; steam half hour. 

— Mrs. Luke W. Finlay. 

" Charley's Favorite." 

One cup butter, two cups pulverized or fine granulated sugar, 
three cups of flour, one-half cup corn starch, five eggs, one cup 
milk, two teaspoons of baking powder, flavor to taste. 

This recipe is good for layer cakes as well as loaf cake. Served 
hot with sauce makes a delicious dessert. 

Sauce. — Beat one egg thoroughly, add one cup of sugar, two 
teaspoonfuls of flour, two heaping tablespoonfuls of butter and one 
cup of milk or water. Cook in a double boiler until very thick 
and creamy. Stir constantly after it begins to thicken. Remove 
from the stove, grate a little nutmeg into the sauce and add wine 
or brandy to suit taste. — Mrs. C. N. Churchill. 

Boiled Cabinet Pudding;. 

Put a pint of new milk into a saucepan with the rind of a lemon 
and two tablespoonfuls of sugar. When it reaches boiling point re- 
move the rind, add three well beaten eggs. Butter a mold and line 
it with citron and raisins fancifully arranged. Next lay in slices of 
cake (sponge cake or lady fingers) and fill it with alternate layers 
of cake and raisins. Pour over the custard, cover and steam in the 
oven, setting the mold in a deep pan of boiling water. Time, one hour. 



72 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Caramel Cup Custards. 

Melt four tablespoonfuls of sugar until a light brown, pour it 
into six custard cups and shake them quickly, so that the caramel 
will line them. Beat three eggs without separating, add to them 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar and one cup of cream. Beat well, 
add a teaspoonful of vanilla and pour the mixture in the cups on 
top of the caramel. Stand them in a baking pan of hot water about 
fifteen minutes, or until they are set. Turn out while hot on indi- 
vidual dishes and set aside to cool. Very fine. — From Ladies 1 
Home Journal '. 

Iced Cabinet Pudding:. 

Rub two ounces stale lady fingers and two of macaroons 
through a coarse seive, beat six eggs until light, with four ounces 
of pulverized sugar, stir this into a quart of milk brought to the boil 
in a douole boiler, and continue to stir until it coats a knife blade, 
take from the fire and add one-fourth box of gelatine, which has 
been soaked in a little cold water for an hour, and strain ; set aside 
to cool. Line the bottom and sides of a melon mold with pre- 
served or candied cherries, slices of quince preserves, pineapple or 
any kind of preserved fruit liked, and put in lay of broken sponge 
cake, sprinkle with pounded macaroons and lady fingers, add layer 
of fruit and so on till mold is full ; it will require half pound of 
sponge cake for this recipe ; flavor the custard and pour it over, 
dip a strip of muslin two inches wide in melted butter and bind it 
over the joint, pack in ice and salt and freeze for three hours. 
When ready to serve dip mold quickly in hot water and turn out ; 
serve with whipped cream. 

Sover's New Cbristnias Pudding;. 

Four ounces stoned raisins, four ounces sultanas, one-half 
pound of well-cleaned currants, one-half pound beef suet chopped 
fine, two ounces powdered white sugar, two ounces flour, one-half 
pound bread crumbs, twelve bitter almonds blanched and chopped 
small, one-half nutmeg grated, two ounces candied citron, the peel 
of one-half lemon chopped fine. When all is prepared separately 
put in a basin, break over four eggs, add one-half gill of brandy ; 
mix these all well the evening before wanted, cover over till morn- 
ing; then add half gill of milk and well stir the pudding; slightly 
butter a cloth, sprinkle a little flour over set it in a basin, pour in 
the mixture, tie your cloth in the usual way, not too tight ; put in half 
gallon of boiling water, adding a little more now and then to it to one- 
half gallon ; simmer two and a half hours, turn out of cloth, serve 
on a hot dish. When at the dining room door pour round a gill of 
either brandy or rum, set on fire with a piece of paper ; place on 
table, let burn one-half minute, cut pudding cross-ways, serve hot, 
with the following sauce. 

Sauce. — One-half pint melted butter, rather thick, two tea- 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 73 

spoonfuls sugar, small glass cognac, juice of one-half lemon, stir 
quick. — Mrs. Luke IV. Finlay. 

Fig- Pudding:. 

Half pound of figs, one-fourth of a pound of grated bread, two 
and one-half ounces of sugar, three ounces of butter, two eggs, one 
teacup of milk. Chop th,e figs fine and mix with butter, and by 
degrees add the other ingredients. Butter and sprinkle a cloth 
with bread crumbs ; pour in pudding and steam three hours. Serve 
with lemon sauce — Mrs. M. E. Wormley. 

Plum Pudding;. 

One pound seeded raisins steeped in a half gill of good brandy ; 
heap upon the raisins two ounces of citron and an ounce each of 
candied orange and lemon peel, the grated rind and juice of one 
lemon and one orange, four ounces of blanched almonds (cut fine), 
one pound currants, one pound suet cut fine and rubbed with four 
tablespoons of flour, one pound of brown sugar, one pound of 
bread crumbs, one nutmeg, a dash of cayenne pepper and a little 
salt, a gill of sherry wine. Mix well and keep in a cool place for a 
day or so. When ready to boil add eight eggs and a cup of sweet 
cream. Boil ten hours.. When ready for use boil two hours more 
and serve with any kind of sauce desired. Whipped cream is ex- 
cellent. — Mrs. Mary Jordan. 

Frozen Pudding:. 

One quart milk, four tablespoonfuls gelatine, four eggs, two 
cups sugar. Soak gelatine two hours in water enough to cover it, 
boil the milk, beat eggs and sugar together, pour the boiling milk 
over it, add the gelatine, set it on stove until it thickens, but do 
not let boil. When cold add one quart cream, one-half pound con- 
serves, cherries and sherry wine to taste, then freeze. This makes 
three quarts. Use preserved cherries and a little pineapple cut 
fine. The preserved cherries are as good as conserved. 

— Miss Helen Boyd, Washington, D. C. 

Apple Snow. 

Peel and grate one large sour apple, sprinkling over it three- 
quarters of a cup of powdered sugar as you grate it to keep it from 
turning dark. Break into this the whites of two eggs and beat it 
constantly for one-half hour. Take care to have it in a large bowl, 
as it beats up very stiff and light. Heap this in a glass dish and 
pour a fine, smooth custard around it and serve. A very dainty 
dessert. 

Sauce. — Yolks of two eggs, one-lialf pint milk, one table- 
spoonful sugar, one teaspoonful vanilla. Put milk on to boil in a 
farina boiler, beat yolks and sugar together until light, then add 
them to the boiled milk, stirring over fire for two minutes. Take 



74 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

off, add vanilla and put aside to cool. — Miss Helen Boyd, Wash- 
ington, D. C. 

Snow Pudding. 

One-half box gelatine, two cups of sugar, four eggs, juice of 
three lemons, one quart milk, teaspoonful of vanilla, one pint boil- 
ing water. Cover the gelatine with cold water and let soak several 
hours, then pour over it the boiling water, add sugar and stir until 
dissolved, then add the lemon juice and strain the whole into a tin 
basin, place this in a pan of ice water and let stand until cold. 
When cold beat with an egg-beater until white as snow. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir them into the pudding. 
Dip a fancy mold into cold water, turn the pudding into it and 
stand in a cold place for four hours. 

Sauce. — Put the milk on to boil, beat the yolks of the eggs 
and a half cup of sugar together until light and stir them into the 
boiling milk ; stir and cook two minutes. Take from fire and add 
vanilla and turn out to cool. Serve the pudding with the sauce 
poured around it. — Miss Helen Boyd, Washington, D. C. 

Dried Fig Pudding. 

One pound figs cut very fine, one-half pound bread crumbs 
grated, one-half pound sugar, one-half pound suet cut very fine, 
three eggs well beaten, one teacup sweet milk, one teaspoonful 
yeast powder, one teaspoonful grated nutmeg, one wine glass 
brandy ; mix all thoroughly together, and boil in pudding mold 
four hours. At times I put it in a cake pan with tube in center, 
cover with several thick folds of cloth, place in steamer, over a 
kettle of water, and let steam for four hours ; I always arrange the 
mold same way, never place it directly in the water. 

Wine Sauce to Eat With This Pudding.— Stir together one 
teacup of butter, two of sugar, and an even tablespoonful of flour; 
put these in a stew pan and stir to it a half tumbler of boiling 
water; let simmer for a little while, pour in a half tumbler of sherry 
wine (brandy may be used), and a half grated nutmeg. — Mrs. H. T. 
Lenimon. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 75 



76 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 77 



CUSTARDS. 

Molasses Custard. 

Eight eggs, one cup of sugar, two cups of molasses, one-half 
cup of butter, cream butter and sugar together, add the yolks of 
eggs, then the molasses, and lastly the whites of eggs. This will 
make two custards. — Mrs. George B. Peters. 

molasses Custard. 

For three pies, one pint molasses, six eggs, one cup sugar, a 
heaping tablespoon of butter ; put the molasses in, let it boil five 
minutes, beat eggs and sugar together, drop the butter in the hot 
molasses and pour in the eggs and sugar, stirring constantly; have 
single crusts ready, pour in mixture, bake until firm. — Mrs. B. C. 
Worden. 

Lemon Custard. 

For one pie, take four eggs, one cup sugar, one lemon, piece 
of butter size of a walnut ; separate the eggs and beat yolks, sugar 
and butter together till the sugar is well dissolved, put it in a single 
crust, bake till firm, beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
with four tablespoonfuls of sugar, put in a slow oven till it is a light 
brown. — Mrs. B. C. JVorden. 



78 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 79 



DESSERTS. 



CHARLOTTE RISSE, CREAMS, ETC. 

Charlotte Russe. 

Line mold with sponge cake or lady fingers, put a heaping 
tablespoonful of gelatine in enough cold water to dissolve, whip a 
pint of cream to a stiff froth, sweeten with powdered sugar to taste ; 
after gelatine is dissolved pour hot water to it, making about a tea- 
cupful in all ; when just milk warm stir into whipped cream, flavor, 
pour into mold, set away in a cool place. — £. ^. 6". 

Charlotte Russe. 

One quart cream, whites of six eggs, one-half box Nelson's 
gelatine ; cover gelatine with sweet milk and dissolve on range ; 
when lukewarm pour into the whipped cream, whipping all the 
time ; add sugar and sherry wine to taste, then the beaten whites of 
eggs. — Mrs. George B. Peters. 

Charlotte Russe. 

Two tablespoons of gelatine soaked for ten minutes in six 
tablespoons of sweet milk and then stirred over the fire until dis- 
solved thoroughly ; immediately strain and set aside to cool until 
just warm to the finger ; have ready one pint of cream, well 
whipped, the whites of three eggs beaten with twelve spoons of 
pulverized sugar as for meringue and then with the cream to which 
add slowly the gelatine and milk, beating all the time ; whip thor- 
oughly and pour into a mold lined with lady fingers, and set aside 
to congeal. — Mrs. Maury Galbreaih. 

Charlotte Russe. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of Cooper's gelatine and soften in a 
small teacup of cold water ; when well soaked add a little boiling 
water to dissolve it, and four heaping tablespoonfuls of granulated 
sugar ; when cool strain slowly into a pint of rich cream that has 
been chilled in ice and whipped to a stiff froth, beating slowly all 
the time while the gelatine is being put in ; flavor with vanilla; a 
teacup of almonds blanched and chopped fine may be added. 

— Mrs. F. C. Ruse. 

Charlotte Russe. 

One-fourth of a package of gelatine soaked in one cup of cold 
milk one hour. Set the vessel containing that in a pan of hot water 
and in a few moments it will be dissolved, then set by to cool. 



80 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Sweeten one quart of cream to taste (about one-half cup of pulver- 
ized sugar) and flavor with a wine glass of sherry. Whip the cream. 
Beat four egg whites very dry, then add one small cup of sugar. 
As soon as the gelatine begins to thicken or rope stir in the egg 
whites. When this is well mixed add the whipped cream and set 
on ice. Line the bowl with lady fingers. — Mrs. J. M. Botven. 

Quick Charlotte Russe. 

One quart of cream, six egg whites, six tablespoonfuls of granu- 
lated sugar, one dozen and a half lady fingers, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Whip the cream. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, add sugar 
gradually. Mix this with the whipped cream, stirring very lightly. 
Flavor with the vanilla and pour into a mold lined with lady fingers. 

— Mrs. Wharton S. Jones. 

Charlotte Russe. 

One quart of cream, whites of four eggs and yolks of three, 
one-half pound of white sugar, one-half ounce of gelatine. Whip 
cream to a stiff froth and the beaten whites. Beat sugar and yolks 
together until light. Mix all together, and lastly add the gelatine 
dissolved in one-half pint of warm water or milk. — Mrs. Mary 
Jordan. 

Wine Jelly. 

To one package of Cox's gelatine dissolved in a pint of cold 
water add three pints of boiling water and one pound of white 
sugar, the juice of three lemons and the rind of one, one pint of 
wine. Strain through a flannel bag. — Mrs. Luke IV. Finlay. 

Russian Cream. 

Cover one package of Cox's gelatine with cold water. When 
dissolved add one cup new milk, one cup sugar; heat to boiling 
point, stirring frequently, then set away to cool. Whip one quart 
of cream until light; beat well the whites of six eggs; add both to 
the mixture. Place jelly in molds when congealed. Serve in slices 
with caeam. — Mrs. J. H. Alien. 

Tapioca Cream. 

Soak three tablespoonfuls of tapioca over night in just enough 
water to cover it. In the morning boil one quart of milk with the 
soaked tapioca by placing it in a tin or granite vessel; set in water 
to boil ; one cup of sugar and a little salt. Beat the yolks of three 
eggs thoroughly. When the mixture has boiled ten minutes stir in 
the yolks. Remove from the fire; stir rapidly for five minutes. 
Flavor with vanilla. Line your dish with lady fingers and then 
pour in your tapioca cream, with the beaten whites of the eggs over 
the top of the cream. Sift sugar over the top. 

N. B. — Instead of the beaten whites of eggs use whipped 
cream when it is convenient. — Mrs. S. J. Shepherd. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 81 

Instead of Ice Cream. 

A choice new dinner dessert to be used as a substitute for ice 
cream is made in this way. Whip a pint of cream to a froth, and 
color with vegetable coloring either very pale green or rose color ; 
soak one-fourth of a box of gelatine in a quarter of a cup of cold 
water until soft, then set in hot water until it dissolves; stir three 
ounces of powdered sugar into the whipped cream, so lightly that 
you do not break the froth, then strain the gelatine and mix thor- 
oughly, but very lightly ; when the mixture begins to thicken sea- 
son gradually with four tablespoonfuls of sherry wine, and one-half 
teaspoonful of vanilla ; add one-half cupful of blanched almonds 
chopped fine ; pour into small cups or punch glasses ready for serv- 
ing, set in refrigerator and serve cold. If a more elegant dish is 
desired garnish the top of each cup with candied fruits or flowers, 
violets, rose leaves (candied) in very small quantities. 

Peach Souffle. 

"A pretty dish to set before a king." Requires no skill be- 
yond that of any woman of average brain and such an ice cream 
freezer as is seen in every kitchen. Pare and cut into bits, fine soft 
peaches, place them in a porcelain kettle on the back of range till 
the juice runs freely. Strain through either a hair sieve or fine 
cloth, and to one quart of juice add one quart of water. Rub to a 
cream twelve eggs and two pounds of sugar, then add fruit juice 
and water, and pour all together into a stew pan or kettle. Boil 
the mixture till it becomes as thick as custard, stirring carefully all 
the while ; then strain again and beat briskly till cold, freeze after 
the manner of an ordinary ice and serve with cream sweetened and 
flavored with the fruit. — Mrs. O. H. Benton. 



ICE CREAM AND ICES. 

Blouse. 

One-half pound candied cherries, one-third cup of Cooper's 
gelatine, one-third cup of cold water, one-third cup of hot water, 
one cup of sugar, six tablespoons sherry wine, one quart of cream. 
Whip cream to a stiff froth, add gelatine dissolved in the water, 
sift in the sugar, then the wine. Pack in freezer and let stand six 
hours. — Mrs. George B. Peters. 

Milk Sherbet. 

One-half gallon milk, eight lemons. Take juice of four lemons 
and cut four up (peeling and all) ; take out seeds. Sprinkle one 
and one-half pints of sugar over lemons and let stand a few hours. 
Put in freezer and let it get thoroughly chilled before putting in milk 
to prevent curdling. Freeze all together. — Mrs. J. E. Beasly. 



82 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Apricot Sherbet. 

One can California apricots rubbed through a sieve, one quart 
of water, one pint of sug^ir and juice of one lemon. Mix well to- 
gether and put into the Ireezer. When about half frozen add the 
whites of two eggs well beaten. — Mrs. O. T. jaquess. 

* 

Sherry Cobbler. 

•One quart of sherry wine, one quart of water, six lemons — 
some of the peel cut very thin in fine rings ; sweeten to taste and 
freeze. — Mrs. L. H. Brown. 

Superb Ice Cream. 

One quart milk, one pint cream, whites of five eggs and yolk 
of one, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, three tablespoonfuls of sifted 
flour in a half cup of cold milk, two teaspoonfuls lemon extract, 
one teaspoonful vanilla extract. Beat the whites of eggs very light, 
then add the sugar and yolk of egg. Stir this into the boiling milk, 
then add the one half cup of milk, into which has been put the 
flour. When this is thick remove from the fire, allow to cool, then 
add the extract and cream. Sweeten the cream to taste before 
putting it in the custard. — Mrs. George B. Peters. 

Dr. P.'s Punch. 

Make a plain sherbet of one quart of water, four lemons and a 
pound of sugar, freeze and serve in small glasses with one table- 
spoonful of blackberry wine in each glass ; serve with meat course. 

— Mrs. Wharton S. Jones. 

Lotus Cream. 

Juice of six lemons, juice of nine oranges, one can of grated 
pineapple, two pounds of sugar, whites of four eggs, one and one- 
half pints of water ; put water and sugar on to boil until it thickens, 
pour this over the whites well beaten, put all fruit juices into the 
freezer and pour the icing on top ; do not mix until ready to freeze. 

— Mrs. Winston F. Garth, Huntsville. 

Apricot Sherbet. 

One can California apricots rubbed through a sieve, one quart 
water, one pint sugar, juice of one lemon ; mix well and freeze ; 
when about half frozen add the whites of two eggs well beaten. 

— Mrs. O. T. Jaquess. 

Champagne Punch. 

Make one gallon of orange sherbet, freeze hard ; when ready 
for use pour in bowl, add one tumbler of whisky, one tumbler of 
sherry, one-half tumbler of rum, lastly two quart bottles of cham- 
pagne. — Mrs. W. A. Gage. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 83 

Milk Sherbet. 

One gallon new milk, six lemons, one generous pound of 
sugar, rub lemons and squeeze juice into sugar, slice and add rinds 
of three lemons, put in freezer and pack with ice and salt ; when 
ready to turn pour in your milk and freeze immediately. If con- 
venient one pint of cream adds greatly to it. — Mrs. J. 1. Pdtit. 

Peacb Sherbet. 

One quart of mashed peaches, one quart of water, one pint of 
sugar ; boil water and sugar together and cool, add to peaches, 
freeze a while, then stir in the beaten white of one egg ; if not acid 
enough add a little lemon juice. — Mrs. S. F. R, 

Milk Sherbet. 

Three pints sweet milk, one pound sugar, five lemons ; squeeze 
lemons over the sugar, saving one-half lemon, which must be sliced 
as thin as possible and put with sugar also, let this stand on ice 
until thoroughly cold ; be sure that the milk is perfectly fresh, and 
let it get ice cold before mixing with the sugar and lemons, then 
stir together and freeze ; if you wish to flavor with pineapple use 
only two or three lemons and a small can of grated pineapple. 

— Miss Annie Mc Clung. 

Fruit Ice. 

One quart water, three cups sugar, one three-pound can of 
fruit (apricot is nice) ; when this begins to freeze whip two eggs 
(whites and yolks), and stir in ; if fruit is not acid, add one grated 
lemon. — Miss Annie Mc Clung. 

Sherry Cream. 

One quart rich cream, one and one-half cups of sugar, one-half 
pint good sherry wine ; whip cream, add sugar and wine and 
freeze. — Mrs. W. P. Brown. 

Brule. 

One quart morning's milk, six eggs, six tablespoons of sugar; 
make a custard of this. First put milk on and let it come to a boil, 
beat eggs and sugar together, then pour milk in after it has come to 
boil, strain and put on back of the stove, put skillet on and get it 
hot, two cups of dark brown sugar, one-half cup water, scorch a 
good brown, then pour custard in and stir over the fire until all is 
dissolved, set away to cool ; before putting in freezer add a quart 
or less of cream whipped. — Miss Craft. 

French Lemon Sherbet. 

Make one and one-half gallons of rather acid lemonade, using 
twelve lemons, grate the peel of three or four, add to the lemonade 



84 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

and let stand twenty minutes ; pour a pint of cold water over a box 
of gelatine, when soft pour over it one pint of boiling water ; put 
this in the lemonade, beat whites of eight eggs with three pounds 
of sugar until thick as icing ; have the lemonade thoroughly chilled 
in freezer, then add eggs and lastly one pint of whipped cream ; 
freeze slowly. Delicious. — Mrs. Fred Anderson. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND 85 



86 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 87 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

Peach Preserves— "Virginia Style. 

Weigh the fruit, after it is pared and the stones are removed, 
and use for this work the perfect halves only. Allow one pound 
of sugar to every pound of fruit and phce them alternately until 
the supply of both is exhausted. Crack one fourth of the stones, 
remove the kernels and break them into bits, then put to boil in a 
small stewpan with just enough water to cover them. Cover the 
vessel tightly and set aside to steep. Place the preserving kettle 
on the back of the range until the sugar is melted and fruit warmed 
through, then strain and add the water in which the kernels have 
steeped. Boil slowly, but steadily, until the peaches are tender 
and clear. Take them out with a peiforated skimmer and lay upon 
fiat dish, crowding as little as possible. Let the syrup boil until it 
is almost a jelly. That is, until it is thick and clear, taking care to 
remove all the skum as it rises to the top. Heat your jars, fill two- 
thirds full of peaches, pour in the hot syrup and screw the lid on 
lightly or loosely. When cold use what syrup remains to fill each 
jar full ; cover tightly then and rest content that whenever you 
desire a really perfect bon mouchc it will be ready at your hand. 

— Mrs. O. H. Beniou. 

Peach Jelly. 

To make a peach jelly that you can trust and that will delight 
the little folks' hearts, pare, stone and slice ripe, sweet and juicy 
peaches and add to them one-third of their kernels, which have 
been removed from the pits and blanched. Set the kettle contain- 
ing the fruit in a vessel of hot water and place on the fire, stir 
occasionally and when the fruit is well broken strain through a sieve 
or bag of cheese cloth. To every pint of peach juice add the juice 
of a lemon, and, after carefully measuring the liquid for a second 
time, put in a preserving kettle and set to boil. Allow one pound 
of white sugar to every pint of the liquid. When the juice has 
come to a boil add sugar, boil twenty minutes, pour into jelly glasses 
and when cold and firm seal and store in a dark place. 

— Mrs. O. H. Benton. 

Canned Peaches. 

For canned peaches that will be better, as well as far more 
economical than any you can purchase ready for use, select large 
ripe, but not soft fruit. Pare, halve, and for every quart two heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls of sugar and a pint of water. I generally can 
three cans at a time. After syrup is boiling drop in peaches, cover 



88 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

and cook until tender ; pierce with a straw. While fruit is cooking 
place a pan on range and put jars in it in cold water, let boil, thus 
heating jars gradually. When fruit is tender fill jars three- fourths 
full of peaches, then fill with hot syrup. Screw tight and stand jars 
on end where tops are screwed. If perfectly air-tight will not leak 
and fruit will not rise to the top when jars are set down. 

— Mrs. 0. H. Benton. 

Pear Ginger. 

Seven pounds pears peeled and sliced thin, put in cold water 
to prevent them turning dark, seven pounds sugar, bruise three 
ounces of race ginger and let soak several hours in two cups of cold 
water ; dissolve the sugar in this, set on fire and let it boil a few 
minutes, add the pears and boil until clear; about half an hour be- 
fore the preserve is done slice in three lemons. — Mrs. 0. T. 
Jaquess. 

To Preserve Pineapples. 

Take off the rough cones and cut from the pineapples a part 
of the stem, leaving it one or two inches long; put in a pot (not 
iron) of water to boil for five hours or more until tender enough to 
pierce with a straw, then take off peel carefully, cut in thick slices, 
cut out the core, weigh and place in a bowl; to each pound of fruit 
put one and one-half pounds of sugar, putting a layer of fruit and 
one of sugar ; set aside till next morning. Remove carefully syrup 
and sugar, put in a kettle and let it come to a boil, skim and put 
the fruit in ; after fruit and syrup both come to a boil, let boil ten 
minutes ; put fruit in glass jars, let syrup boil until thick, pour over 
fruit, and when cold seal it. — Mrs. R. B. Maury. 

Brandied Peaches. 

Ten pounds peeled peaches, five pounds sugar, and spice to 
taste ; use sparingly of cloves, allspice and mace brandy sufficient 
to cover the fruit; place the peeled fruit in a large stone jar, 
sweeten part of brandy with full amount of sugar in order that it 
may be well mixed before using. Pour this over peaches and con- 
tinue until well covered with brandy ; add spices and tie heavy 
cloth over mouth of jar; set this vessel in another of hot water and 
place where it will boil until fruit is tender ; be careful not to cook 
too much, cover closely and set away. — Mrs. L. H. Brown. 

Brandied Peaches. 

To brandy peaches after as nearly perfect a method as human 
skill has yet devised, select fruit of light color, white heath, pro- 
ceed as follows : Plunge the fruit into scalding water, then rub off 
the skin if very ripe, if not, peel with a soft cloth, and to every 
pound allow one of sugar and a gill of the best white brandy; make 
a syrup of the sugar and enough water to dissolve it; when it is 
boiling add the peaches and boil five minutes; remove the fruit 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 89 

from the syrup with a perforated skimmer, and pack in heated jars, 
boil the syrup for fifteen minutes or longer till it thickens, add the 
brandy and remove from the fire at once, pour the syrup over fruit 
and seal. — Mrs. O. H. Benton. 

Blackberry Jam. 

Take the weight of berries and sugar, pick the berries care- 
fully and lay them in alternate layers with sugar, set in a cool place 
over night. In the morning put in preserving kettle and boil until 
the juice begins to jelly. Raspberry jam may be made the same 
way. — A Friend. 

Watermelon Preserves. 

Take the rind of a melon, peel all the green off, cut in fancy 
shapes, lay in salt water twenty-four hours. Take out and put in 
fresh water four hours with a tablespoonful of powdered alum 
sprinkled over it. Then put on the fire in preserving kettle, cook 
until they can be pierced with a straw, then weigh, put three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar to one of the rind. Put cold water in 
preserving kettle with pieces of ginger in it. Make the syrup with 
ginger water, allowing the ginger to remain. Keep the melon 
warm while making the syrup. Put in the melon and cook until 
the syrup is thick enough. — Airs. F. C. Hitse, 

Fig Preserves. 

After peeling the figs put them in weak lime water all night. 
Next morning scald them in ginger until redness disappears. One 
pound of sugar to one pound of fruit ; a cup of water to each pound 
of sugar. Put them in the hot syrup and boil a few minutes ; re- 
peat this process two mornings; two lemons to five pounds of fruit. 
The syrup is generally done when you have finished the fruit. 

— Mrs. Mary Jordan. 

Watermelon Rind. 

Allow to each pound of rind one and one half pounds of sugar. 
After letting the rind remain in strong salt water for three days, 
soak in fresh water one day, changing frequently, until all the salt 
is extracted. Then boil about half an hour in fresh water with a 
few pieces of ginger and a teaspoonful of powdered alum. Wipe 
them dry with a towel and place in cold water until syrup is made. 
Dry them again and pour the syrup on boiling hot, repeating this 
process for nine mornings, and if you do not think them done 
enough boil for a little while. — Mrs. Mary Jordan. 

Strawberry Preserves— Improved Method. 

Select nice whole berries (they must not be too ripe), weigh 
them, and for every one and one-fourth pounds take one pound of 
granulated sugar. Place the sugar in a porcelain or granite iron 
kettle and add sufficient water to thoroughly moisten sugar. Boil 



90 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

until it threads, then add the berries slowly and carefully to avoid 
breaking or bruising. Boil slowly for twenty minutes. If the 
syrup seems thin, remove the berries with a wire skimmer and boil 
the syrup until as thick as desired, then add a pinch of soda to 
bring up impurities. Put the berries back into the syrup, take the 
vessel from the stove, cover carefully and put in a cool, dark place, 
temperature about 50 degrees; allow them to stand over night. 
Rinse your jars with hot water, place your berries in the jars very 
carelully; first berries, then syrup, and so on until the jars are full 
to the first screw, then overflow with syrup and seal air-tight. If 
carefully made and in small quantities the berries will retain their 
beautiful color and delicious flavor. They should be put in small 
jars.— Mrs. C. N. Churchill. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 91 



92 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 93 



PICKLES. 

Virginia mixed Pickles* 

One-half pint green tomatoes, slice them and chop, twenty- 
five cucumbers chopped, fifteen large onions chopped fine, two 
large or three small heads of cabbage, cut as for slaw ; mix all to- 
gether. Put a layer of pickle in a stone jar, then sprinkle with salt, 
so on until all is used up, let it stand twenty-four hours, drain thor- 
oughly from the water, and put in weak vinegar for half a day ; 
then take as much strong vinegar as will cover your mixed ingredi- 
ents, put it on the fire, add one pint of scraped horseradish, two 
ounces of turmeric, one-half ounce of powdered cinnamon, one-half 
pound of white mustard seed, one-quarter pound of brown pepper, 
one pound of sugar, one ounce of celery seed ; mix all together, 
put in your pickle, let it come to a good boil, take off, put in jars 
and cover well. — Mrs. James E. Beasley. 

Yellow Cabbage Pickle. 

Two gallons of vinegar, one pint white mustard seed, four 
ounces ginger, three ounces black pepper, three ounces allspice, 
one ounce mace, three ounces celery seed, one ounce cloves, two 
ounces turmeric (all to be powdered), large handful horse-radish, 
six or eight large onions, four large lemons sliced, two pounds 
sugar, raisins (any quantity) ; use twelve small, very firm and white 
cabbages, quarter them and place for twelve hours in brine that 
will float an egg ; brine should be boiling when first put over cab- 
bage ; at the end of time dry each piece in a cloth and press as 
much water out as you can without injuring. Place in stone jar, 
and pour spices and vinegar on ; the older the pickle the finer, as 
it requires a long time to become tender. — Mrs. L. H. Brown. 

mustard Pickles. 

One quart of small cucumbers, one quart of large sliced 
cucumbers, one quart of green tomatoes, one quart of small onions, 
one cauliflower, four green peppers ; make a brine of four quarts 
of water, one pint of salt, soak twenty four hours, heat to scalding, 
drain through colander, one cup of flour, six tablespoons of mus- 
tard, one of turmeric, with enough cold vinegar to paste ; add one 
cup of sugar and enough vinegar to make two quarts ; boil this 
until smooth, add vegetables, and boil till well heated through. 

— Mrs. Emery. 

Yellow Pickles. 

Four hard heads of cabbage cut fine, twelve white onions sliced 



94 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

fine, sprinkle both with two small cupfuls of salt, let stand twelve 
hours ; add twelve red peppers chopped fine, pour weak vinegar 
over all (half water and half vinegar), and stand twenty-four hours ; 
then squeeze out and put in your jar, add two pounds brown sugar, 
one-half pound white mustard seed, one ounce celery seed, one- 
quarter pound ground mustard, one cup horseradish, one dessert- 
spoonful turmeric ; mix all well together, and mix with cabbage, 
etc.; then put one-half ounce turmeric in a thin bag on the top of 
the chow-chow; lastly pour strong cider vinegar (cold) on the 
chow-chow and stir for a few days. — Miss Helen Boyd, Wash- 
ington, D. C. 

Mustard and Curry Pickles. 

One gallon vinegar, eight tablespoonfuls table salt, three table- 
spoonfuls black pepper ; boil this in the vinegar ; mix with a little 
cold vinegar, two tablespoonfuls curry powder, six of corn starch, 
and eight of yellow mustard; stir this in the boiling vinegar and 
boil fifteen minutes ; have very small cucumbers, wash and put 
into your jar, pour the boiling vinegar over them. This is suffi- 
cient for 200 pickles. — Miss Helen Boyd, Washington, D. C. 

Cabbage Pickle. 

Pour boiling salt water over the cabbage, let them remain in 
it twenty-four hours, then drain all the water from them. Put them 
in the sun to whiten and dry half a day, then scald them in vinegar. 
Put two or three teaspoonfuls of turmeric in while they are boiling. 
As soon as they are a pretty bight color take them off, put in a jar, 
pour the vinegar (which must be very strong) over them, adding 
horse radish, garlic, allspice, white ginger, mace, white mustard 
and celery seed, also pepper (red is the best). — Mrs. Luke W. 
Finlay. 

French Pickle. 

Two large heads of cabbage, one peck of green tomatoes, one 
dozen onions, one dozen green (sweet) peppers. Chop each sepa- 
rately very fine. Mix together, then put in large stone jar, with 
alternate sprinkles of salt. Let stand over night. Next day press 
all water out until dry, then add two dozen dill pickles (chopped 
fine), also six cloves of garlic. Cover with cold vinegar for twenty- 
four hours. Take fresh vinegar (about two quarts), put in porce- 
lain kettle with one and one-half pounds brown sugar, add one- 
half ounce whole cloves, same of ground cinnamon, mace and 
allspice — this last tie up in a bag, as it would otherwise make the 
pickle dark — one ounce white mustard seed, two ounces race gin- 
ger, one ounce turmeric (tied in thin bag), two tablespoons of celery 
seed, same of curry powder and ground black pepper, one cup 
ground mustard, one cup olive oil and one cup grated horseradish. 
Boil these ingredients in the vinegar and pour very hot over pickle. 
Cover closely to keep steam in. Next day put all in kettle and let 
boil ten minutes. Seal up in small jars. — Mrs. Fred Anderson. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 95 

Spanish Pickle. 

Three heads of hard cabbage shaved fine, one-half peck of 
white onions and one-half dozen green bell peppers chopped rather 
fine. Mix well with these one-half pint of salt and hang up in a 
cotton bag to drip over night, then squeeze very dry and put on 
the fire, covered with plain vinegar, to scald an hour or longer 
(never let it boil — only very hot). When it cools from this, squeeze 
well and put into the spiced vinegar, which is one gallon of best 
vinegar, one-half cup of celery seed, one-half cup of mustard, four 
pounds of brown sugar, one cup of mustard seed, one-half cup of 
horseradish, one cup of olive oil, two tablespoons of turmeric, two 
tablespoons of race ginger (beaten coarse), two tablespoons of black 
pepper, one tablespoon of cloves. A. 11 to be beaten coarse. Mix 
all with the pickle and it will be ready for use in a few days. 

—Mrs. R. W. Mitchell. 

Sliced Cucumber Pickle. 

Twelve cucumbers, one quart of white wine vinegar, half a 
cup of white mustard seed, half a cup of black mustard seed, one 
tablespoonful of celery seed, six small sliced onions, half a cup of 
oil, a small half teaspoonful of powdered alum ; slice the cucum- 
bers thin after peeling, mix the onions with them, cover with salt 
and let stand over night. In the morning drain well and mix with 
the other ingredients ; be careful to stir as little as possible for fear 
of breaking the slices. — Mrs. F. C. Huse. 

Olived Cucumbers. 

Pare and slice cucumbers and onions, salt as for use, allow 
them to remain in salt over night, drain off the brine well and put 
in jars, alternate layers of onions and cucumbers, using white mus- 
tard and celery seed as seasoning; fill the jars with vinegar, and to 
each add a tablespoonful of olive oil and one small pod of red 
pepper. 

Hvrien Sauce. 

One gallon chopped cabbage, one-half gallon green tomatoes, 
one quart onions, one half pint green peppers, one-half pint horse- 
radish, one pint of celery, one pound sugar, one-third of a gallon 
of cider vinegar, four tablespoons mustard, two tablespoons ginger, 
one of cloves, one of cinnamon, one of celery seed, two ©f salt, two 
of turmeric ; boil fifteen minutes. — Mrs. Wilkinson. 

Onion Pickle. 

Peel one gallon of small onions and put in strong brine, let 
stay eight days, stirring them every morning, then wash them 
thoroughly through two or three waters, stick a clove in the root 
end of each onion, pack in a jar, spice to taste, put the spice, a 



96 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

half gallon of vinegar, one pound sugar, pour boiling hot over the 
onions. It is better to let stand in water over night, after being in 
brine eight days. — Mrs. Richard Rivers. 

Piccalilli. 

Take one and a half peck of green tomatoes, seven large 
peppers, four onions. Chop into pieces about the size of your 
finger, cover with a half cup of salt and let stand twenty-four hours, 
then pour off the water. To each half gallon of the mixture add 
one teaspoon each of mustard and pepper, one cup brown sugar, 
ground cloves and cinnamon to taste. Cover with cider vinegar 
and boil until tender. Put in glass jars. 

Pepper mangoes. 

The peppers should be in brine six weeks. When you are ready 
to stuff them soak in fresh water a day and night, changing the 
water once. For the stuffing chop very fine five pounds of hard 
white cabbage (such as you would use for slaw), chop fine also one 
pound of onions, add to the cabbage and mix into it the following 
spices (finely beaten) : One ounce of allspice, one-half ounce of 
cloves, one-half ounce of mace, one tablespoonful of ginger, one 
teaspoon of cinnamon, two tablespoonfuls of celery seed, two table- 
spoonfuls mustard, one ounce white mustard seed, one tablespoon- 
ful turmeric, two tablespoonfuls black pepper, one teaspoonful 
cayenne pepper, one teacupful salad oil and salt to your taste. 
Mix all thoroughly. Cut a slit in the side of each pepper, carefully 
take out all of the seed — not disturbing the stem. Stuff each one 
quite full and wrap it around with a soft string (knitting cotton) and 
tie so the stuffing may not escape. Pack them in a jar and cover 
with boiling vinegar. Tie up the jar carefully, so as to exclude the 
air. In a few months mangoes will be nice, in a year delightful, 
in two years perfection. This quantity will stuff two dozen bell 
peppers. Add to the stuffing, if you have it, a teacupful of grated 
horseradish. — Mrs. Cameron, North Carolina. 



SWEET PICKLES. 



Sweet Peach Pickle. 



To eight pounds of fruit add five pounds of sugar, one and 
one-half quarts of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of allspice, two of 
cloves and one of mace ; boil the vinegar and spices together three 
mornings in succession and pour over the fruit, the fourth morn- 
ing put fruit and syrup on the fire together and then simmer a short 
time. — Mrs. Luke IV. Finlay. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 97 

Sweet Pickle. 

Seven pounds of fruit, three pounds of sugar, one pint of vine- 
gar, spices to taste; peel fruit, put in a jar, heat liquor with spices 
in it, pour over and cover close. The next day boil fruit and 
liquor until fruit is tender, skim the fruit out and put in jar, boil 
juice down a little, then strain the spices out and tie in a cloth so 
they will not discolor the fruit in spots. 

A Sweet Pickle Peach. 

To prepare a sweet pickle such as your most exacting critic 
will be sure to enjoy, scald the peaches and rub off the skin, weigh 
and and for every pound measure half the quantity of white sugar ; 
put the fruit and the sugar in the kettle in alternate layers and heat 
slowly to a boil, then add for every six pounds of fruit one pint of 
strong wine vinegar and one tablespoonful each of whole cloves, 
whole mace and stick cinnamon, and boil all together ten minutes, 
or until fruit is tender (not broken) ; skim out the peaches and spread 
on dishes to cool, boil syrup till it thickens, pack the fruit in jars, 
pour in boiling syrup ; for three mornings drain syrup off (leaving 
fruit in jars, I prefer stone jars), and heat, pour over fruit, cover 
and keep in cool place. — Mrs. O. H. Benton. 

Watermelon Rind. 

Soak rinds in weak brine over night, next day throw in clear 
water to remove salt taste and then put grape leaves in the bottom 
of a preserving kettle, then a layer of rinds and sprinkle with pul- 
verized alum and so on until all are used, pour over enough cold 
water to cover and let simmer two hours, drain well, and when cold 
to each pound of fruit use three-quarters of a pound of white sugar, 
and to the whole one pint of strong vinegar, mixed spices accord- 
ing to taste ; cook very slowly two hours until fruit looks clear and 
seal up in glass jars. — Mrs. S. J. Shepherd. 

.Sweet Cantaloupe Pickle. 

Slice and peel the cantaloupes, then pour weak vinegar over 
them and let them remain over night. The next morning take 
them out and measure the vinegar. Take the same quantity of 
strong vinegar, and to every quart allow two pounds of brown 
sugar. Let them boil one hour and twenty minutes. Five minutes 
before you take them off put in white mustard seed, mace and 
cinnamon. — Mrs. Annie Simmons. 

Sweet Cncntnber Pickle. 

Take one gallon of cucumber pickles, such as are had at the 
grocers, cut them crosswise in four pieces into a stone jar. Take 
one and one-half pints of vinegar and in this put six pints of sugar. 
Place on the back of the stove and stir until sugar is dissolved, add 



98 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

one-third cup of whole black pepper, one-half cup of whole allspice, 
let come to a boil and pour over cucumbers and tie tightly. Let it 
stand several weeks before using. — Mrs, R. B. Maury. 

Spiced Damsons. 

Eight pounds fruit (pick over and put in jar), one quart apple 
vinegar, five pounds sugar, two nutmegs, one ounce stick cinnamon, 
one-half ounce cloves. Put vinegar, sugar and spices on the fire 
and let boil a few minutes. Pour this boiling syrup over the fruit 
and let stand until morning. Repeat this next morning and the 
third morning put all on the fire and let come to a boil, then seal. 

— Miss Annie Mc Clung. 

Green Tomato Sweet Pickle. 

Slice green tomatoes and spinkle with salt, let stand twenty- 
four hours, then soak fresh. Scald with weak vinegar and wash in 
fresh water ; let stand a while. To five pounds of tomatoes use 
four pounds of sugar and vinegar enough to make a syrup to 
cover them. After the sugar and vinegar have boiled put in the 
tomatoes, scald until clear, add whole mace and cinnamon. Just 
before taking off range put one pound of raisins to every five pounds 
of tomatoes. Let the raisins stay on the stems and remain on the 
fire until well plumped out. — Mrs. J. J J'. Biush. 



CATSUPS AND SAUCES. 

Chilli Sauce. 

Eighteen ripe tomatoes, six onions, three green peppers, one 
cup of sugar, two and a half cups of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of 
salt, one teaspoonful each of cinnamon, allspice and nutmeg, one- 
half teaspoonful of cloves ; scald and skin tomatoes, cook with 
onions and peppers until tender ; then add other ingredients and 
cook ten minutes longer, heat jars, pour in and seal. 

31 i 11 1 Sauce. 

Two tablespoons of green mint, cut fine, two of sugar, and one- 
half cup of vinegar — L. D. E. 

Ripe Tomato Catsup. 

Peel and bDil the tomatoes a little, rub through a sieve; to one 
gallon of juice, add one quart of pure apple vinegar, four table- 
spoons of salt, half tablespoon of red pepper, half tablespoon of 
black pepper, three of white mustard seed, one of ground allspice, 
four large onions chopped fine, oie and a half pounds of brown 
sugar; boil until as thick as you like. — Mrs. Luke W, Finlay. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 99 

Chilli Sauce. 

One-half peck ripe tomatoes, eight onions, six red peppers, 
two coffee cups of vinegar, two teaspoons of salt, two tablespoon- 
fuls of brown sugar, teaspoonful each of ground allspice and cloves, 
boil all together until thick, seal while hot. — Mrs. O. T. Jaquess. 

Tomato Catsup. 

One peck tomatoes, one pint vinegar, two tablespoonfuls salt, 
two tablespoons brown sugar, one tablespoon ground cloves, one 
tablespoon allspice, one teaspoon black pepper, one-quarter tea- 
spoon cayenne pepper, one head of garlic skinned and chopped 
fine ; boil tomatoes until soft, rub well through a sieve to get all 
the pulp, add the other ingredients and boil three hours. 

— Mrs. 0. T. Jaquess. 

Cucumber Catsup. 

Twenty-four large cucumbers, six large onions, one pint of 
cider vinegar; grate cucumbers, chop onions fine, sprinkle with 
salt and let stand twenty-four hours, let it drip through a sieve 
when dry, put in the vinegar, and cut fine six small pods red pep- 
per ; it keeps without sealing. — Mrs. F. C. Hitse. 

Chilli Sauce. 

Twenty-four ripe tomatoes, eight onions, six peppers (green), 
eight coffee cups vinegar, eight tablespoons sugar, six tablespoons 
salt, one tablespoon cinnamon, one tablespoon allspice, one table- 
spoon nutmeg, one tablespoon cloves ; boil all together well, and 
seal while hot. — Mrs. W. J. Crawford. 

Barbara Sauce. 

One gallon green peppers and six large onions boiled until 
soft in one-half gallon of vinegar. Ma^h with a spoon through a 
sifter, season with two teaspoons each of salt, black pepper, mace, 
allspice and one-half teacup of brown sugar. Boil fifteen minutes. 
After taking from the fire add three pints of good vinegar and it is 
ready for use.— Mrs, Benjamin West. 

Tomato Soy. 

One-half peck of onions, one peck green tomatoes. Slice very 
thin on evening and put them in a vessel in layers with salt between 
each layer. In the morning drain as dry as possible and cover with 
weak vingar; let simmer for twenty minutes, then drain again and 
add one tablespoonful of black pepper, one of mustard, one of 
ginger, cloves, mace, nutmeg and cinnamon and celery seed, one 
pint of olive oil. Mix thoroughly. Boil one gallon of vinegar 
and two pounds of sugar together, add one pound of black mustard 
and one ounce of turmeric. Pour vinegar and sugar over boiling 
hot. — Mrs . Mary Jordan. 



100 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Chilli Sauce. 

One quart of tomatoes (pared), one pepper, two onions (chopped 
fine), two tablespoons sugar, one tablespoon salt, one tablespoon 
ginger, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon cinnamon, one pint 
vinegar. Cook one hour. — Mrs. Emery. 

Tomato Catsup. 

One bushel tomatoes, one and one-half pounds of brown sugar, 
one pint vinegar, one-half pound salt, one ounce ground cloves, 
one ounce allspice, one tablespoonful black pepper, one and one- 
half tablespoonfuls red pepper, one tablespoonful mace, one table- 
spoonful mustard, two large onions. Scald tomatoes and remove 
the skin, then break in pieces and put in boiler. When thoroughly 
soft strain through a fine sieve, then add the other ingredients, and 
then, when cold, bottle, cork and tie. 

Green or Red Pepper Catsup. 

One hundred long peppers or three hundred small ones, boil 
in a half gallon of water until they can be pierced with a straw, rub 
with a cup through a sieve ; one and one-half dozen large onions, 
chop fine and let come to a boil, rub through a sieve ; three table- 
spoonfuls of salt, two of allspice, one of ginger, two of celery seed, 
one teacup of sugar and three of good apple vinegar. 

— Mrs. Richard Rivers. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. i l 



102 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 103 



BREAD. 



Three things must be exactly right to have good bread — good 
flour, good yeast, and an even temperature througout the rising 
process. No precise rules can be given to ascertain these points. 
It requires observation, reflection, and quick, nice judgment to de- 
cide when all are right. During the process of rising the bread 
should be kept as tenderly as a babe, that no draught or cold air 
chill it, nor must it be allowed to become hot. Bread should be 
handled very lightly after first rising of the dough. Always grease 
the bowl in which the dough is placed to rise, that it may be re- 
moved to form into loaves with very little handling. 

Experience alone can enable one to judge when the oven is 
just right for baking. If too hot the loaves will burn before ex- 
panding sufficiently, if too cool the bread will sodden. The proof 
of well-made bread is the fine, close, yet light texture. The better 
the quality of the flour the less working it requires and the more 
milk or water in mixing. Poor flour is damp and h< avy, and will 
be absorbed in less water. 

Yeast. — After many years of experience and making and 
using many kinds I prefer this : Seven potatoes pared and boiled 
till tender, boil a handful of hops in one quart of water, reduce to 
a pint, mash potatoes very fine, using the pint of water in which 
the hops have been boiled, then add a pint of boiling water, add a 
spoonful of flour to potatoes after mashing, a teaspoon of ground 
ginger, one of sugar; when cool enough to be certain it will not 
scald and destroy the life of the same, add a cup of yeast, let it 
stand till light, over night, then stir in next morning a fourth of a 
teacup of fine salt ; now put away in fruit jars, keep cool, but do 
not allow to freeze. When salt is added to the yeast it will foam 
like soda water, and it must not be immediately corked tight; let 
yeast stand in stone vessel or bowl to rise; a scant teacup of this 
yeast is sufficient for six loaves of bread. 

Sponge. — Sponge must be very light like seafoam if you want 
good bnad. I boil two potatoes for three large loaves of bread, 
when well done place in a two-quart bowl, mash as fine as possible, 
no lumps, pour over this a pint of tepid water, stir in flour till I 
have a good thick batter, almost like drop dumpling batter, thick 
enough to drop from spoon, add half teacup yeast, set to rise in 
warm place over night, in winter and in summer out of the wind, 
but not near stove ; when light it is ready for mixing. 

Bread. — Early in morning, particularly in summer, have a bow 
of sifted flour ; in the sponge add a teacup of sweet milk, teaspoon of 



104 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

lard, tablespoon of sugar, teaspoon of fine salt (in winter have milk 
tepid), mix with your hands, add flour until you have a smooth 
dough, not too stiff, then take out on kneading board, and work 
until it blisters and cracks, which will be in about twenty minutes. 
Now grease your bowl, which should be twice the size of your 
dough, then put it in, molding a few times, turn over quickly; this 
greases the top, cover with bread towel, set in warm place until it 
fills the bowl, mold into loaves one-half the size desired, when light, 
which will be about twice as large as when molded ; bake in a well- 
heated oven for one hour. It ought to have a regular heat, not 
quick heat, and ought not to brown any, but keep rising for ten 
minutes after putting in oven ; grease top of loaves when making 
in pan ; when done turn out in a linen bread towel folded lightly 
over it, standing loaves on end to cool; when cold remove towel 
and place in bread box. Follow directions and you will have ex- 
cellent bread. — Mrs. O. H. Benton. 

Waffles. 

One quart flour, one teaspoon of salt, one tablespoon of melted 
butter, sweetmilk enough to make a thick batter. Mix thoroughly. 
Add two well beaten eggs and two teaspoons of baking powder ; 
stir well and bake in well greased waffle irons. Some persons like 
the addition of two tablespoon fuls of sugar to the batter 

Raised Wallles. 

The above recipe may be used by omitting the baking powder 
and adding half a teacup of good yeast (or a small piece of com- 
pressed yeast dissolved). Let it stand over night in the winter. 
As soon as the fire is made in the range set the batter in a warm 
place and let rise until needed. If made in warm weather cover 
closely and place in the refrigerator until fire is made in the range. 
Be careful to put the batter in a vessel that will allow it room to 
rise. — K. C. Churchill. 

Corn Bread. 

One pint of cornmeal, one tablespoon wheat flour, half tea- 
spoon sugar, half teaspoon salt, two eggs and milk enough to make 
a thick batter, two small teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Put in 
buttered tins and bake in quick oven. 

— Mrs. Julia F. Schied, Cairo, III. 

Corn Bread. 

One and one-half cups cornmeal, one-half cup flour, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one egg, one table- 
spoonful of melted butter, one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful 
of baking powder. Bake in a shallow, well greased pan about 
twenty minutes in a hot oven. — K. C. C. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 105 

Corn Pones. 

To one quart of sifted meal add a little salt and a tablespoonful 
of lard, scald with boiling water and beat hard for a few minutes. 
Shape with the hands into oval cakes, drop into a greased pan and 
bake in a quick oven. — K. C. C. 

Brown Bread. 

Make sponge as for white bread, only using Graham flour, 
which I sift through a coarse sifter. Let rise over night. In the 
morning add a half cup of black molasses (instead of any sugar) to 
the sponge, teaspoon of salt, teaspoon of lard. Add Graham flour 
until you have a dough as soft as can be handled to mix ; do not 
knead on board; just work in bowl; grease the top; let rise. 
When light make into three loaves. It will be very soft, but all 
the better. Put in greased pans, let rise until night ; bake one 
hour in a very slow oven, as it is apt to burn. — Mrs. O. H. Benton. 

Salt-Rising Bread. 

Take a small cup of cornmeal, scald with boiling sweet milk 
until a little thicker than sweet cream ; set in a warm place to rise 
over night. In the morning take one-half pint of boiling water, 
one-half pint of sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful of salt, two of 
sugar, a pinch (small) of soda. Let cool until it will not scald flour, 
add flour to make a batter, beat well, stir in the meal previously 
prepared, set in kettle of quite warm water, keeping it warm. This 
sponge will rise quickly. Have a bowl of sifted flour, pour sponge 
into center, having made a hole in flour. Add a cup of tepid sweet 
milk and more salt, letting it rise. Then knead into loaves, let it 
rise and bake. But little kneading is necessary. — Mrs. 0. H. 
Benton. 

Parker House Rolls. 

One quart of flour, one pint of warm milk, butter the size of 
an egg, one small half cup of yeast, a little salt; mix and let stand 
over night. Work down in the morning and let rise twice. Roll 
out and cut with a biscuit cutter, buttering the edges and folding 
over. Let them rise again about fifteen minutes and bake in a 
quick oven twenty minutes. 

Swiss Rolls. 

Two eggs (beaten separately), one tablespoonful of sugar, one 
quart of flour, one tablespoon of lard or butter, a pinch of salt, one 
teacup of yeast. Beat eggs and sugar together, then add lard or 
butter, then other ingredients. Make into a stiff dough, let it rise 
for six hours, then roll, spread butter over surface, fold and cut 
either round or oblong, put in pan, let rise for two hours and then 
bake as any other bread. — Mrs. Maty White, Mississippi. 



106 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Rolls. 

One-half cake compressed yeast dissolved in one pint cold 
boiled mild, one quart flour, into which thoroughly mix one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of sugar and one tablespoonful 
lard. Knead thoroughly and set to rise for about three hours. 
Make into rolls and set to rise again. Bake in hot oven for twenty 
minutes. — Mrs. W. H. Atkinson. 

Cream Toast. 

Slice bread rather thin, trim edges and brown. To one cup 
of boiling milk add thickening of two tablespoons cold milk, one 
tablespoon flour. When to the consistency of cream remove and 
stir into it one tablespoon butter and four hard boiled eggs, which 
have been thoroughly mashed, spread thick over toast and serve at 
once. — Mrs. Elizabeth Sanders. 

Breakfast Cakes. 

One pint of sweet milk, one pint of flour, two eggs, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, one tablespoonful of butter. Separate 
the eggs, beat the yolks light in a bowl, add milk, then the flour 
and the butter (after melting). Whip the whites, adding those and 
the baking powder just before baking. Bake on a soup stone baker 
without grease. — Mrs. F. C. Huse. 

* Sally Lunn. 

The genuine Sally Lunn, as made in Virginia kitchens, is always 
a cake raised with yeast. It should be raised, baked and served in 
the same dish, and has little flavor in common with the so-called 
Sally Lunn, made with baking powders. Take five cups of flour, 
and pour over it a cup of boiling water, add a cup of milk and a 
half cup of butter, heat thoroughly, and when the mixture is blood 
warm add four eggs, a little salt, and same amount of sugar, add 
last of all a half cup of home-made yeast ; beat hard until the batter 
breaks in blisters, set to rise over night, and in the morning put in 
the oven as soon as the fire is hot enough to bake it brown ; it 
should be baked in an earthen dish and torn apart, not cut. 

— A Friend. 

Superior Muffins* 

One quart of flour, one teaspocnful of salt, one tablespoonful 
of white sugar ; rub in one heaping tablespoonful of butter and 
lard mixed, and one tablespoonful of Irish potato mashed very fine ; 
pour in three well-beaten eggs, a half teacup of yeast ; make into a 
a soft dough with warm water in winter, and cold in summer, 
knead well for half an hour, let it rise where it will be milk warm 
in winter and cool in summer. If wanted for 8 o'clock breakfast 
in winter, make up night before. At 6 o'clock in the morning 
make out into round balls (without kneading again), and drop in 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 107 

snowball molds that have been well greased ; take care to grease 
the hands also and pass them over the tops of the muffins, set them 
in a warm place for two hours and then bake. ''These are the 
best muffins I ever ate." — Recipe given to Dr. Patterson by Mrs. 
Cochran, daughter of Bishop Gregg, of Texas. 

Boston Brown Bread. 

One cup of Indian cornmeal, one cup of rye flour, one cup of 
wheat flour, one-half cup of molasses, two and one-half cups sour 
milk, one teaspoonful soda and salt. Steam three hours. 

— Rev. George Patterson. 

Brown Bread. 

Two cups of sour milk, one cup of molasses, one teaspoon salt, 
one of soda, two cups of Graham flour, one cup of cornmeal. 
Steam two hours. Set in the oven just a few moments before 
serving. 

Brown Bread. 

One quart Graham flour, one small teacup cornmeal, one pint 
of New Orleans molasses, three eggs, a pinch of salt, half pint sour 
milk, small teaspoon soda. Put in buttered tins and steam one and 
one-half hours. Then brown in a slow oven for half hour. 

— Mrs. Julia F. Schied, Cairo, III. 

Pop-Overs. 

Two cups sweet milk, two cups flour, two eggs, butter size of 
a walnut, tablespoon sugar, a little salt. Make a smooth batter 
and bake in gem pans. Make the pans hot before putting in bat- 
ter. — Mrs. laura Ellis, Terre Haute, Ind. 

Egfg Bread. 

One cup of meal, two tablespoons of cooked rice, scald it, 
then add one egg, one-quarter teaspoon of soda, one-half teaspoon 
yeast powder, pour in buttermilk until like soft mush; have a pan 
hot, melt a tablespoon of lard in pan, pour half of lard in egg 
bread, sprinkle some meal in bottom of pan, then pour the egg 
bread in pan, cook in quick oven. — Miss O. T. Abernathy. 

Muffins. 

Scald a pint of milk, add a tablespoonful of butter, and when 
lukewarm half a cake of compressed yeast dissolved in a quarter 
cup of water, then add a teaspoon of salt and three cups of flour, 
beating for five minutes ; when light add enough flour to make a 
soft dough, work lightly with the hand, divide into small balls, 
place each ball in a greased muffin ring and let rise ; bake on a hot 
griddle until a nice brown ; never cut hot muffins, break or pull 
them open. 



108 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Lunch Bread. 

Two eggs well beaten, a little salt, a teaspoon of sugar, one 
pint of flour, half cup of butter (melted), one cup of sweet milk, 
two teaspoons of baking powder. Bake in flat pan in a quick oven. 
Eat hot with butter. — Mrs. Luke IV. Finlay. 

Potato Yeast. 

Four large potatoes (raw), one large spoonful of salt, three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, three pints of boiling water, one teaspoon 
of ginger ; grate the potatoes and mix well the salt and sugar with 
them, then pour three pints of boiling water into the potatoes and 
let it boil slowly about ten minutes; when milk warm add a cup of 
yeast; After making this yeast once you save cupful to start with, 
being careful always to wait until it is cool. — Mrs. Luke W. Finlay. 

Bread No. x. 

At night peel, boil and mash four or five Irish potatoes, put in 
a bucket or any vessel three heaped tablespoonfuls of flour, two of 
sugar, and one teaspoon of salt, scald this with a half pint or more 
of the potato water, then stir in the potatoes and thin all with cold 
water, and when milk warm add one cup of yeast and let stand till 
morning. This will mix to a stiff dough about five or six pints of 
flour, work a long while till smooth and blisters, let your dough 
rise until it more than doubles itself, then make into loaves lightly 
and quickly, without kneading any more, and set to rise again ; 
bake about one-half or three-quarters of an hour in a slow oven. 

— Mrs. Luke IV. Finlay. 

Bread No. 2. 

When in a hurry, or forgotten to have potatoes cooked, take a 
pint of flour, sugar and salt as in the preceding recipe, and thin it 
into a thin batter with lukewarm water in winter and add the same 
quantity of yeast as for the other. This will be ready by morning 
to mix and knead as the other bread, with flour, sugar and salt. 
The potato bread keeps moist longer, but is not so white. 

— Mrs. Lake W. Finlay. 

Tea Biscuit. 

One Irish potato the size of an egg ; boil done and mash fine. 
Dissolve one cake of compressed yeast in one-fourth cup of tepid 
water, add potato with a pinch of sugar. Let rise ten minutes. 
Take one-half gallon flour, pour sponge in three eggs (not beaten), 
one-half cup of sugar, lard the size of an egg and one cup of tepid 
water. Have a soft dough, let rise and work down three times 
with well buttered fingers. When made pour in a tablespoonful of 
melted butter, cut with biscuit cutter, put two inches apart in pans. 
Grease with butter top of each. Let rise a few minutes and bake 
in quick oven. — Mrs. F. C. Huse. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 109 

Biscuit. 

One quart of flour, heaping tablespoonful of lard, two level 
teaspoons of baking powder, one teaspoonful salt ; place flour, salt 
and baking powder in sifter and sift in a bowl, rub lard through 
till like sand with the hands, mix with sweet milk to a dough as 
soft as can be handled, work thoroughly till perfectly smooth, roll 
about half an inch thick, cut and bake in quick oven; serve at 
once. — Mrs. O. H. Benton. 

Beaten Biscuit. 

One and one-half pounds of flour, one-quarter pound of lard, 
one-half pint of cold water, one teaspoonful of salt. Mix thor- 
oughly. Beat until the dough blisters, which will be in about 
twenty minutes. — Mrs. Wharton S. Jones. 

Beaten Biscuit. 

Three pints flour, one large spoon lard, one teaspoon salt. 
Work the lard well into the flour, add one and one-half cups water. 
Stir all together with the hand until it is a stiff dough, then knead 
it on the molding board until it is smooth, then beat it with the 
rolling-pin until it puffs up and seems light. Roll a half inch thick, 
prick with a fork and bake in a quick oven. — Mrs. W. A. Robinson. 

Beaten Biscuit. 

One and one-half pounds of flour, measured after being sifted 
twice ; one-quarter pound of lard, two teaspoonfuls of salt. Mix it 
thoroughly with one teacupful of ice water. Work with hands, put 
on the board and beat thirty minutes. Bake in very quick oven. 

Soda Biscuit. 

One quart sifted flour, one teaspoon not (mite even of soda, 
same of baking powder, one good tablespoon lard, enough sour 
milk to make a soft dough, work till smooth ; if sweet milk is used, 
use two teaspoons of baking powder. — Mrs. J. H. Sullivan. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

One quart water or milk warmed, one tablespoon molasses, 
one-half cake yeast, one tablespoon cornmeal, enough buckwheat 
to make this batter, let rise over night. 

Rusk. 

Three pints sifted flour, one large spoon melted lard, one pint 
milk, two eggs, one cup sugar, one cake yeast, warm milk, lard 
and sugar, and stir till sugar is melted. Pour this into crock con- 
taining flour, knead well and add yeast and salt last ; make in even- 
ing and let rise all night ; in morning make into rolls and let rise 
till ii o'clock, then bake. — Mrs. J. H. Sullivan. 



110 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Pocket-Books. 

Beat the yolks of three eggs with two heaping dessertspoons 
of sugar until light, add one-half cake of compressed yeast dis- 
solved in a coffee cup of sweet milk, one pint of flour, and the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, set this to rise (takes about 
three hours), and when light add one tablespoon of lard and one of 
butter and a half pint of fl jur ; let it rise again and when light add 
another half pint of flour, roll out in strips one-half inch thick, but- 
ter them, fold and set to rise again ; when light bake quickly. 

— Airs. Anne L. Crump. 

Sally I. mm. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, butter size of an egg, coffeecup of 
sweet milk, two teaspoons baking powder, flour to make a thick 
batter. Bake in quick oven about twenty minutes. 

—Mrs. J. H. Sullivan. 

Dixie Biscuit. 

Three pounds sifted flour, two eggs, two tablespoons lard, one 
cup of yeast, one cup of milk. Mix at n o'clock, roll out at 4 
o'clock, cut with two sizes of cutters, putting small one on top. 
Let rise until six o'clock ; bake twenty minutes. 

— Mrs. J. H. Sullivan. 

Boston Brown Bread. 

One pint flour, one pint meal, one pint sour milk, one teacup 
molasses, one teaspoon soda. Pour into a well greased tin and 
steam two and one-half hours, then bake fifteen minutes. 

— Mrs. J. H. Sullivan. 

Potato Yeast. 

One large potato boiled done, put in a bowl, add a tablespoon 
of flour, two of sugar. Mash together, pour on the water the 
potato was boiled in, let stand to cool. When milk is warm add a 
teacup of hops or potato yeast; let stand to rise in a white foam. 
Keep in a cool place. 

To Make the Rolls. — One cup of yeast, one cup water, one- 
half cup sugar, one cup lard, white of one egg. Cream lard, sugar 
and egg together, then add yeast and water ; stir in flour enough to 
make a stiff batter; keep in a warm place. When well risen stir 
in more flour to make a stiff dough ; set to rise. When light work 
lightly, make into rolls. It will take about an hour to rise enough 
to bake. 

A Pretty Tea Roll. —Roll dough thin, cut with a biscuit 
cutter, butter and lay one on top of the other, with the butter be- 
tween. Take your three fingers and make a deep dent in the 
center — don't let touch in the pan. This makes a pretty round roll 
with dimple in center. — Mrs. V. C. McGaramy, Kentucky. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. Ill 

White Bread. 

Sift three pints of flour into a bowl, add one tablespoonful of 
salt, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one heaping tablespoonful of lard, 
one cake of yeast dissolved in one and one-half cups of luke warm 
water; knead into a light dough and let stand over night in a warm 
place. In the morning mold into loaves and let rise until they 
come to the top of the pan, then bake an hour in a moderate oven. 
In winter water used must be warmer, and the bread can be 
kneaded more, but the less it is kneaded in summer the better. 

— Sister Augusta. 



112 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND 113 



CAKES. 

In making cake, it is very desirable that the material be of the 
finest quality. Sweet, fresh butter and eggs and good flour are the 
first essentials. The process of putting together is also quite an 
important feature, and where other methods are not given in this 
work by other contributors, it would be well for the young house- 
keeper to observe the following : Never allow the butter to oil, but 
soften it by putting in a moderately warm place before you com- 
mence other preparations for your cake ; then put it into an earthen 
dish (tin, if not new, will discolor your cake as you stir it), add 
your sugar, beat the butter and sugar to a crean, add yolks of the 
eggs, then the milk, and lastly the beaten whites of the eggs and 
flour alternately. Baking powders in flour, spices, liquors may be 
added after the yolks of the eggs are put in, and fruit should be 
put in with the flour. The oven should be pretty hot for small 
cakes, and moderate for large. To ascertain if a large cake is suf- 
ficiently baked, pierce a broom straw through center. If done the 
straw will come out free from dough ; if not done dough will ad- 
here to the straw. Take out of the tin in about fifteen minutes 
after it is taken from the oven, not sooner, and do not turn it over 
on top till perfectly cold. In baking a loaf cake it is always better 
to cover with paper until it has raised nearly all it is going to, 
because if the cake bakes too quickly at edges it will puff up in the 
middle, making it a bad shape. It is a good rule also, before be- 
ginning to mix a cake to have everything ready, even to the pans. 

-M. J. D. 
Chocolate Cake. 

One-fourth of a pound of grated chocolate, one cup sugar, 
one cup milk, two eggs ; mix well and cook to consistency of 
mush. Set aside to cool. 

Batter. — One cup sugar, two full cups flour, three-fourths 
teaspoonful soda sifted into flour, one-fourth cup butter. Beat 
eggs, sugar and butter well together ; then add flour ; mix all to- 
gether, and flavor with two tablespoonfuls of vanilla. Bake in 
rather quick oven in jelly pans. — Mrs. J. S. Robinson. 

Mephistoplieles Ambrosia. 

First Part. — Three fourths cup chocolate, one cup milk, one 
cup brown sugar. Melt these together and let them become cold. 

Second Part. — One cup brown sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup milk, two cups flour, yolks three eggs, teaspoonful of 
soda last. 

Add first part to second and bake in layers. Put together 
with any kind of soft white frosting. — Mrs. S. C. Emery. 



114 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Black Cake. 

Tw.) pounds raisins, one pound citron, twelve eggs, two pounds 
currants, one pound butter, two pints of brown sugar, one pint of 
black molasses, four pints of browned flour, one pint of white flour, 
one glass whiskey, two tablespoonfuls ginger, two of cinnamon, one 
of cloves, one of nutmeg, one-half of mace, one of baking powder, 
cream butter. Add sugar, then the yolks of eggs well beaten, then 
molasses, flour and whipped whites, whiskey and spices. Beat 
well. Last add the fruit. — Mrs./. W. Btush. 

Delmonico Cake. 

One cup of milk, two of sugar, three of flour, one-half cup of 
butter, whites of four eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Beat the butter and sugar together, add the flour and milk, a little 
at a time; add whites last. Bake in two layers. 

Filling. — Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of cream, one 
tablespoon of butter, one teaspoon of vanilla. Put in a pan and 
cook until quite thick. Pour on a dish and let cool for a few mo- 
ments, then put in vanilla and beat until thick enough to spread. 

— Mrs. Elizabeth Sanders. 

Maple Caramel Cake. 

Yolks of eight eggs, whites of two, two cups flour, one of but- 
ter, two of sugar, one of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one teaspoonful flavoring. To the creamed sugar and 
butter add the milk and flour, with baking powder sifted into it, 
then the well beaten eggs. 

Filling. — One pound butter, one pound maple sugar, one 
pound pecans. Pound the maple sugar, add two tablespoonfuls 
water and the butter. Place over fire until it comes to a boil. 
Remove and add nuts, and while hot put on cake. — Mrs. Elizabeth 
Sanders. 

Sunshine Cake. 

Whites of seven eggs, yolks of five, one cup sugar, two-thirds 
cup flour, one-third teaspoonful cream tartar. — Mrs. Elizabeth 
Sanders. 

"The Brownies' Delight Cake." 

Make four layers of rich white cake, make a boiled frosting of 
four cups sugar and whites of four eggs, divide in four parts ; into 
one portion stir one fine grated cocoanut and pulp of one orange 
rubbed through a seive, spread on bottom layer ; second portion of 
frosting stir in a cup of chopped nuts and one cup of chopped 
raisins and one tablespoonful grated chocolate ; third portion, one 
cup chopped almonds and half a cup chopped citron ; fourth por- 
tion, spread on the top of cake thick and smooth. — Mrs. W. M. 
Harth, Caseyville, Ky. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 11& 

Yellow Sponge Cake. 

Six eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, six ounces flour, 
ten ounces sugar, pinch of salt, whip the sugar into the beaten 
whites, stir in the yolks, and last whip in the flour ; bake in a mod- 
erate oven. — Mrs. O. T. Jaqucss. 

Blackberry Cake. 

Tnree-fourths cup of butter, three eggs, beaten separately, two 
cups of flour, one cup of jam, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one 
of allspice, one nutmeg, one cup of sugar, three tablespoonfuls 
buttermilk, one teaspoon sugar. Cream sugar and butter together, 
then add spices and jam, then well-beaten yolks of eggs; next add 
alternately well beaten whites of eggs and sifted flour, then with 
the buttermilk in which the soda has been dissolved. Bake in lay- 
ers and put together with white icing. — Mrs. J. A. Taylor. 

Blackberry Cake. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one and one-half cups of black- 
berry jam, one cup of butter, two and one-half cups of flour, six 
tablespoons of sour cream, one teaspoon of soda, one teaspoon 
spice, two teaspoons of cloves, one teaspoon of cinnamon, one nut- 
meg, a few pieces of citron ; if batter seems too thin add a little 
more flour. Bake in layers and put together with icing. 

— Mrs. Seabrook. 

White Cake. 

One cup of butter, three of sugar, five of flour, one of sweet 
milk, whites of ten eggs, one teaspoonful baking powder, vanilla. 
Cream butter, add sugar, then milk, flour and eggs alternately, 
then vanilla. Bike in loaf. — Mrs. Frank Ward. 

White Cake. 

One scant cup of butter, three cups of pulverized sugar. Cream 
these together until very light and gradually beat in one cup of 
milk. Beat hard now ; stir in four cups of sifted flour, two level 
teaspoons of baking powder (mixed in the last cup of flour), nine 
eggs, whites beaten dry and stirred in after the flour. Flavor with 
vanilla. Paper and grease pans. — Mrs. J. M. Botven. 

White Cake. 

Whites of eight eggs, three-fourths cup of butter, two cups of 
sugar, three and one-half cups of flour (sifted five times), one-half 
teaspoon of bitter almond, two of cream tartar, one of soda, one 
and one-half cups of milk. Cream the butter and sugar thoroughly, 
stir in milk and flour alternately, reserving one-half cup of milk to 
dissolve cream tartar and soda ; whip it until it foams up, then pour 
into the mixture ; add flavoring ; lastly the whites of eggs. This 
batter must be quite thin. Bake in a quick oven. Use for layers 
or as a loaf. Reliable. — Mrs. W. M. Bees. 



116 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

'White Cake. 

One cup butter, whites of eight eggs, two cups sugar, three 
and one-half cups flour, one cup sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls yeast 
powder, lemon or bitter almond, flavoring to taste. — Mrs. George 
B. Peters. 

White Cake. 

One-half cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three of flour, one 
of milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, whites of eight eggs. 
Cream butter and sugar together, sift flour three times, in which 
the baking powder is added, alternating flour and milk, and when 
well mixed add white of eggs. Beat all well ; flavor with either 
bitter almond or lemon. — Miss Sallie Hayes, Nashville, Tenn. 

White Cake. 

Whites of fifteen eggs, one pound of sugar, one pound of flour, 
half pound of butter, and teaspoonful of yeast powder, one-half cup 
of sweet milk. Flavor with lemon or bitter almond. — Mrs. H. B. 
Martin. 

Chocolate Cake. 

One-half cup of butter, two cups of powdered sugar (or one 
and one-half cups of granulated), one-half cup of sweet milk, two 
and one-half cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
whites of nine eggs, Cream butter, add sugar and beat light, then 
the milk, beat the eggs stiff, put in one cup of flour and half the 
eggs, another cup of flour and remaining eggs, put the baking 
powder in the half cup flour, stir in last, beat well. 

Filling. — Two cups of sugar, one of water, boil until it ropes, 
then pour gradually over the whites of two eggs beaten stiff, melt 
one-fourth of cake of baker's chocolate and a piece of butter the 
size of a walnut together and stir in icing, flavor with vanilla. 

—Mrs. F. C. Huse. 

Fruit Cake. 

One pound butter, one pound brown sugar, ten eggs, three 
pounds raisans, one pound figs, one pound citron, one-half pound 
almonds, one-half pound pecans, one-tablespoon ground cinnamon, 
one tablespoon allspice, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon mace, 
one grated nutmeg, one-half wine glass brandy, soak raisins and 
figs, cut fine in brandy. — Mrs. J. H. Allen. 

Cheap Fruit Cake or "Jam Cake". 

Two cups of flour (sifted), three eggs (whites and yolks 
beaten), one cup sugar, three-quarters cup butter, one cup black- 
berry jam, three tablespoonfuls sour cream or buttermilk, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one teaspoonful allspice, one teaspoonful cinna- 
mon, one teaspoonful nutmeg ; bake in layers and put icing be- 
tween. — Mrs. George B. Peters. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 117 

Fruit Cake. 

One pound butter, one and one-quarter pounds sugar, one and 
one-quarter pounds flour, one dozen eggs, one and one-half pounds 
raisins, one and one-half pounds currants, one and one-half pounds 
citron, one-half pound almonds, tablespoon each cinnamon, all- 
spice, one-half teaspoon cloves, one nutmeg, two baking powder, 
eight tablespoons brandy ; bake four hours. --Mrs. C. Meister. 

Fruit Cake. 

Ten eggs, one pound each of sugar, butter, flour, raisins and 
currants, one-half pound citron, and chopped figs, teacup of mo- 
lasses, one of sour milk with teaspoon of soda, half pint of good 
wine, tablespoonful each of cinnamon, cloves and allspice, four 
tablespoons of jam, sift enough extra flour over the fruit to keep it 
from sticking together in a mass. — Mrs. C. N. Churchill. 

Poor Man's Fruit Cake. 

One cup butter, one and a half cups brown sugar, two and a 
half cups flour, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sour milk, one- 
ha'f teaspoonful of soda, three-fourths of a cup of blackberry or 
raspberrv jam. This is excellent as well as economical; can be 
used as "holcake" and served with sauce. — Mrs. C. N. Churchill. 

White Fruit Cake. 

Whites of eight eggs beaten well, stir in two cups of sugar, one 
cup of butter, well-creamed, and four cups flmr, one cup of sweet 
milk, one teaspoon of soda, two of cream tartar dissolved, flavor 
with almond, bake in layers. Tne fruit to go between : One-half 
pound shelled almonds, one-half pound citron, one-half pound 
raisins well seeded ; chop all together, mix with icing. Icing : Two 
cups of sugar, one cup of water, boil until it ropes ; then pour it on 
the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; when a little cool 
mix in fruit thoroughly, put between layer. — Mrs. A. R. Taylor. 

White Fruit Cake. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, three quarters pound 
of butter, whites of sixteen eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, one pound citron cut fine, one cocoanut grated fine, two 
pounds of almonds blanched and chopped, half glass of brandy, 
cream butter, add sugar, beat well, then put in the eggs, the flour 
last, with the baking powder in it, then the brandy and fruit. 

—Mrs. F. C. Huse. 

Angel's Food. 

Whites of nine eggs beaten very light, one and one-half cups 
of sugar, sift one cup of flour five times, one-half teaspoon cream 
tartar. Add a pinch of salt to eggs, then beat ; add sugar and then 
sift in flour. — Mrs. Elizabeth Sanders. 



118 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Dried Apple Fruit Cake. 

Soak three cups of dried apples over night in cold water. In 
the morning chop them fine, put them on the fire with three cups of 
molasses; stew until soft. Just before taking them from the fire 
add one cup of stoned raisins. When cold add three-fourths cup 
of soft butter, three eggs, one tablespoonful of mixed spice and one 
small teaspoonful of soda. Bake about two hours in a moderate 
oven. A fine everyday fruit cake. — Mrs. B. M. Lake. 

Fruit Cake. 

One pound of flour, one pound of butter, one pound of sugar, 
twelve eggs, three pounds raisins, three pounds currants, two pounds 
citron, two nutmegs, two tablespoonfuls allspice, two tablespoonfuls 
mace, two tablespoonfuls cinnamon, one small glass of wine, one 
small glass of brandy, one cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of soda. 
Brown the flour. Do not use extra flour for flouring the fruit. 
Stir the fruit in last, except the citron, and when about to put the 
cake in the pan put in a layer of batter and then a layer of citron 
sliced thin, now batter, then citron, finishing with 'he batter. 
This keeps it from sinking to the bottom. — Mrs. Mary Jordan. 

Angel Food Cake. 

Two important things are requisite in making this cake to be 
flaky and light, "the mixing and the baking." One goblet of flour 
(sifted four times), one and one-half goblets of powdered sugar 
(sifted four times), the whites of eleven eggs, one teaspoon cream 
tartar. Place the whites in a deep bowl, beat with an egg whip to 
a stiff froth. Place sugar in sifter and with a large spoon stir eggs 
gently, always one way, having someone sift in the sugar very 
slowly as you stir. Put cream tartar in flour and have sifted in 
same manner as you stir. Put in a pan without greasing, bake in 
a moderate quick oven thirty-five minutes. When done turn out 
on a round sifter ; let stand until cake falls out. Ice or sift sugar 
over. — Mrs. O. H Benton. 

Thin Ginger Cakes. 

One pint molasses, one egg, one and one-half cups sugar, one 
tablespoonful soda dissolved in one-half gill hot water, one cup but- 
ter and lard mixed, heaping tablespoonful ginger, cinnamon and 
spice, enough flour to make a soft dough. Roll out thin as wafers. 
Very good. — Miss Helen Boyd, Washington, D. C. 

Sponge Cake. 

Six eggs, one-half pound powdered sugar, one-quarter pound 
flour, one teaspoonful baking powder and vanilla. Beat whites of 
eggs to a stiff froth, add sugar, then beat in the well beaten yolks; 
add vanilla, flour and baking powder. Sift sugar twice and flour 
three times. Can be baked as layer cakes or as a whole cake. 
Chocolate icing.— Miss Helen Boyd, Washington, D. C. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 119 

Spice Cake (Layer). 

One-half cup butter, two cups pulverized sugar, six eggs one 
cup milk, one teaspoonful vanilla, three cups flour, three teaspoon- 
fuls yeast powder. Cream butter and sugar together, beat the 
yolks add to butter and sugar, add milk, stir in flour and yeast 
powder and vanilla ; beat the whites to a stiff froth and put in last. 
Fill three pans with the baiter, then add to the balance two table- 
spoonfuls molasses, one-half teaspoonful cinnamon, cloves allspice, 
nutmeg and a little mace. Put icing between.— Miss Helen Boyd, 
Washington, D. C. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Whites of eight eggs, two cups sugar, one cup butter, three 
cups flour one cup milk, three teaspoons baking powder. Beat 
butter to a cream, then add the sifted sugar, then the milk, then 
flour and last of all the eggs. The baking powder must be put in 
with the flour and the eggs must be beaten to a stiff froth. Divide 
into two equal parts and into half put one-half teaspoon ground 
cloves one-half teaspoon ground cinnamon and one teaspoon all- 
spice. ' Bake in layers alternately, or after dividing grate one cake 
sweet chocolate and make into layers. 

Filling for Cake —To one pint of milk add one tablespoon 
butter Heat milk and butter to boiling point, then stir in two 
eggs beaten with two cups sugar; add two teaspoons corn starch 
dissolved in a little milk and stir until smooth. Put between layers. 

— From Sister Augusta. 

Fig Cake. 

One cup of butter and two cups of light brown sugar well 
creamed, six eggs, one cup of milk and four cups of sifted flour, 
two teaspoons baking powder. Flavor. 

Icing.— Eight or ten nice large figs chopped fine. Put in a 
vessel on the stove one and one-half cups granulated sugar, one- 
half cup of milk, piece of butter the size of a walnut and vanilla to 
flavor Boil this hard for six or seven minutes, then, while hot, 
stir in the figs until smooth. Put between layers. Walnuts can 
be used instead of figs. — S. 5. S. 

Ribbon Cake. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup milk, three and a 
half cups pastry flour, one and one-half teaspoons baking powder, 
four eggs beaten separately ; bake two parts as plain layers, to the 
third add one-half cup raisins, chopped and stoned, one cup cur- 
rants one-half pound shredded citron well floured, two teaspoons 
molasses, two teaspoons of brandy, one each of cinnamon and 
mace ; bake and put the fruit layer in center with jelly or icing be- 
tween and ice entire cake. — Mrs, O. M. Peck. 



120 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Mountain Cake. 

Six eggs, half pound butter, one pound sugar, one pound flour* 
one teaspoonful yeast powder, half cup sweet milk. Cream the 
butter, then sift and add your sugar, then add the yolks of your 
eggs (previously beaten), then add the beaten whites and flour 
alternately, lastly the yeast powder dissolved in the milk. Lemon 
or vanilla flavoring. — Ruth Martin. 

Cream Cakes or Moreheads. 

Six eggs, two cups sugar, two of flour, one spoonful of baking 
powder, and two lablespoonfuls of water, fla\or to taste Bake in 
patty pans, when cold cut out the inside of each cake with a very 
sharp knife, fill the hollow spaces with whipped cream, sweetened 
and flavored. '1 he cream must be whipped until very stiff; then 
two cakes are joined together until all are prepared in the same 
manner, and the top iced with fondant icing. 

Fondant Icing. — One cup of confectioner's sugar, five table- 
spoons of hot water, boil till it threads, set aside till cool, then beat 
till white and creamy; flavor to taste and it is ready for use. 

—Mrs. C. N. Churchill. 

Cream Cake. 

Use any good sponge cake recipe for the cream filling, take 
nearly a pint of milk, put in double boiler; when at boiling point, 
add two well-beaten eggs, one cup sugar, two tablespoons of corn 
starch, and two of butter ; stir briskly till very thick, flavor with 
vanilla, and spread between the cakes, which should be taken in 
jelly tins. — Mrs. Dan Rees. 

Old Fashioned Pound Cake. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one pound of butter, 
eleven eggs, whites and yellows beaten separately, one gill of 
brandy, one teaspoon of mace; beat the sugar and butter to a 
cream, then add the beaten yellows and brandy and mace, add 
flour and lastly the whites well beaten; beat all together half an 
hour to make light. — Mrs. O. T. Jaquess. 

Spon j*' e Cake. 

Six eggs beaten separately and added together, one cup and a 
half of white sugar sifted into the eggs gradually, then beaten to- 
gether ten minutes; add the grated half of a lemon or a teaspoon 
of essence of lemon, half a teaspoon of cream tartar, also add the 
juice of half a lemon, two teacupfuls of sifted flour; bake half an 
hour. 

"White Sponge Cake. 

One gobletful and a half of powdered sugar, one goblet of 
flour, the whites of six eggs, a gcod tc aspoon of cream tartar ; mix 
flour, sugar, cresm tartar and eggs tcgether. — Mrs. L. W. Finlay. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 121 

Blackberry Cake. 

Six eggs (beaten separately), one pint butter, one pint sour 
cream, one pint blackberry jam, one pint flour, one pint sugar, two 
heaping teaspoons soda, one tablespoon each of cloves, cinnamon, 
nutmeg and allspice. Bake in layers and let stand one week before 
using. Ice all over. Any kind of fruit desired can be added to 
above. — Mrs. J. T. Hinton. 

Pecan Cake. 

The whites of eight eggs, two cups of powdered sugar, two and 
one-half cups of flour (both to be measured after sifting), one-half 
cup of butter, one-half cup of sweet milk, two teaspoontuls baking 
powder (in the flour). Cream the butter, add sugar, cream until 
very light, add milk, stir until perfectly smooth, then add flour and 
the whites of the eggs, which have been beaten to a stiff froth, 
alternately. Beat well. Cake is much better mixed with the hand. 
Bake in layers. 

For Filling. — One cup of granulated sugar ; place in a stew- 
pan with two tablespoonfuls of water, boil until it will drop thick 
from the spoon. Have the white of one egg beaten to a stiff froth, 
stir in the sugar, remove from the fire and add a cup of chopped 
pecans. Put between layers. Ice with boiled icing, decorate with 
pecans which have been picked out whole halves. — Mrs. Benton. 

Velvet Sponge Cake. 

Six eggs (beaten separately), two cups of sugar (beaten with 
the yolks), then add beaten whites, pour on this one cup boiling 
water (water must be boiling). Stir in this three cups of sifted 
flour, one even tablespoon of yeast powder. — F. Ellen Shanks. 

Chess Cake. 

Yolks of six eggs, one-half cup of butter, one cup of cream, 
two cups of sugar. Flavor to taste. — Mrs. Pillow. 

Spice Cake. 

Three eggs (whites and yolks beaten separately), one cup of 
sugar, three-fourths cup of butter, two cups of flour, one cup of jam, 
three tablespoonfuls of sour cream or buttermilk, one tablespoonful 
of soda, one tablespoonful of allspice, one tablespoonful of cinna- 
mon, one whole nutmeg. Bake in layers. — Haltie Collins. 

Lady Cake. 

One pound of flour, one of sugar, three-fourths of a pound ot 
butter, the whites of sixteen eggs, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
one teaspoon of any desired flavoring extract. Cream butter and 
sugar together until perfectly light, using the hand. Sift flour, 
weigh and sift again with baking powder. Gradually mix in the 
flour and eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Put in flavoring and beat all 
together until smooth and light in the hand. Bake in a slow oven, 
covering with paper until done rising. — Mrs. M. S. Durham, Terre 
Haute, Ind. 



122 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



FILLING AND ICING. 

Chocolate Icing. 

Beat whites of three eggs to a very stiff froth, gradually add 
three cups of powdered sugar, beat very hard ; then add grated 
chocolate according to the taste. — Irma Lee Jones. 

Boiled Icing. 

Pour one-half "cup of boiling water or milk on one cup of 
granulated sugar, let boil until it ropes, then pour gradually in a 
fine stream over the white of one egg well beaten, with a salt spoon 
of cream tartar added ; beat while adding syrup and continue until 
it begins to harden, when quickly spread on cake; any flavor de- 
sired can be added. — Mrs. O. M. Peck. 

Caramel Filling. 

One cup of cream, three cups of real dark brown sugar, one- 
half cup butter ; cream butter and sugar well, add cream and boil 
until it ropes slightly, or just sets in cold water, not too hard ; re- 
move from fire, beat for a few minutes, season with vanilla deli- 
cately, spread on cake. — Mrs. L. H. Brown. 

Caramel Filling. 

One scant cup of butter (coffee cup), two heaping cups of 
brown sugar, one-half cup of rich sweet milk ; mix well together 
and cook very fast until it hardens slightly when dropped in cold 
water.— Mrs. R. W. Mitchell. 

Icing Filling. 

Two cups of sugar to two egg whites ; dissolve sugar with 
water and stir constantly until it commences to boil ; cook until it 
forms a soft ball in water, then pour over the egg whites beaten 
dry, beat until cool, then add blanched almonds ; flavor with bit- 
ter almond. — Mrs. J, M. Bowen. 

Caramel Filling. 

Two and one-half cups of granulated sugar, one and one-half 
cups of fresh milk, one-half cup of butter. Put these on in a sauce 
pan, cook until it thickens a little, have an iron skillet hot, melt in 
it one cup of granulated sugar, then pour over it the other mixture, 
stir until it thickens, and beat until cool. Excellent. 

— Mrs. J. A. Taylor. 

Chocolate Filling. 

Three cups granulated sugar, one cup of cream, two table- 
spoons butter, one-half cake baker's chocolate, vanilla to taste; 
cook ten minutes and stir constantly. — Mrs. L. H. Brown. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 123 

Chocolate Filling:. 

One-quarter pound of baker's chocolate, four cups of light 
brown sugar, one cup of sweet milk, one-half cup of butter, two 
tablespoons of corn starch ; mix and boil until the bubbles are 
large, dark brown and popping, stirring nearly all the time. Take 
off the fire, season highly with vanilla, and beat hard until it is the 
consistency of boiled icing. Spread quickly in thick layers be- 
tween white cake. Excellent. — Mrs. Henry C. Myers. 

Chocolate Pilling;. 

Five tablespoonfuls grated chocolate, with enough cream or 
milk to wet it; one cup sugar, one egg well beaten; stir the in- 
gredients over the fire until thoroughly mixed; flavor with vanilla. 

— Nrs. George B. Peters. 

Filling: tor Caramel Cake. 

Two and one-half cups granulated sugar, one and one-half 
cups milk, one-half cup butter; put all in a saucepan to cook; as 
soon as it boils stir into it very slowly one cup sugar, which has 
been melted in a saucepan, cook until it ropes, remove from fire, 
beat hard for five minutes, add one teaspoon vanilla, spread while 
warm. — Mrs. R. W. Harris. 



DOUGHNUTS, TEA CAKES, ETC. 

Doughnuts. 

One cup of sweet milk (half milk and half cream) one cup of 
white sugar, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one (not heap- 
ing) of soda; beat eggs and sugar light, add milk, the soda dis- 
solved in the least bit of boiling water, add cream tartar with flour, 
cinnamon and nutmeg to taste; make dough as soft as can be 
handled, roll, cut out, and fry in boiling hot lard. 

—Mrs. H. /•'. Dix. 
Doughnuts. 

One quart of sifted flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one cup of 
powdered sugar, two eggs, one cup of sweet milk, two teaspoon- 
fuls of cream tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, flavor with nutmeg ; 
take one pint of the flour, add salt, sugar and cream tartar, mix 
well, then add eggs, then milk, with soda dissolved in it, and last 
the other pint of flour; roll and cut out, fry in hot lard. 

— Rev. George Patterson. 

Excellent Doughnuts. 

One and one-half pounds flour, one quarter pound butter, one- 
quarter pint water, one half pound sugar, three eggs, one lable- 
poon baking powder; fry in hot lard. — Mrs. J. H. Sullivan. 



124 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Doughnuts. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of sour milk, one small teaspoon 
soda, one egg, one teaspoon melted lard, one pinch of salt, nut- 
meg; careful not mix too stiff. — Mrs. L. D. Albee, Detroit. 

Ginger Snaps. 

One cup of brown sugar, two cups molasses, one cup of short- 
ening, two teaspoons of soda, two heaping teaspoons of ginger, 
three pints of flour; stir the sugar and ginger into the flour, then 
rub in the shortening, add the molasses in which the soda has been 
dissolved, add more flour to roll out smooth, roll thin, bake 
quickly, the stiffer the dough, and the thinner they are rolled the 
snappier they will be ; they should not be put away until perfectly 
cold. — Mrs. S. C. Emery. 

Cream Puffs. 

Put half pint of hot water and two-thirds of a cup of butter 
over the fire, when boiling stir in one and a half cups of sifted 
flour, continue stirring until the mixture is smooth and leaves the 
sides of the saucepan, remove from fire to cool, when cool beat 
thoroughly into it five well-beaten eggs, drop the mixture with a 
tablespoon on well-greased tins (biscuit pans will do), leaving space 
between to prevent touching, brush over each drop with the white 
of an egg ; bake about fifteen minutes in a quick oven. When the 
cakes are done they will be hollow ; when cold make a slit and fill 
with the following : 

Cream Filling. — Put one-half pint of cream or rich milk in a 
double boiler and place over fire, when at boiling point add half 
pint of milk and one teacup of flour, stirred to a smooth cream, stir 
until very thick ; then beat well two eggs and one cup of sugar, a 
level tablespoonful of butter and teaspoonful ot vanilla; add this to 
the other mixture and continue stirring until it is so thick that it 
will drop, not pour, from the spoon. — K. C. C. 

Cream Puffs. 

One-half cup of butter melted in one cup of hot water; put in 
a small tin pan on the stove to boil. While boiling stir in one cup 
of flour; take off and let cool. When cold stir in three eggs, one 
after the other, without beating. Drop on buttered tins and bake 
in a hot oven twenty to thirty minutes. 

Filling. — One cup of milk, one egg, one-half cup of sugar. 
Thicken with corn starch and flavor with vanilla. — Mrs. Elizabeth 
Sanders. 

Coffee Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, four cups of flour, one cup of butter, two- 
thirds cup of molasses, one cup of raisins, one cup of currants, one- 
half cup of citron, one cup of strong coffee, one teaspoon soda, 
four eggs, spices to taste. — Mrs. M. S. Durham. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 125 

Crullers. 

One cup of sugar, four tablespoonfuls ol melted butter, three 
eggs (beaten separately), four tablespoonfuls of milk, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, flour to roll out. Use essence or nutmeg. 

— Mrs. Mary Jordan. 

Strawberry Shortcake. 

One quart of sifted flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one 
egg, one small teacup of white sugar, lard the size of an egg, a 
little salt. Mix with milk. D.vide the dough in two equal parts, 
roll thin, place one part in the pan, spread lightly with butter, 
place the other half on top and bake. When cooked turn out on 
a dish, remove one of parts and butter. Have two quarts straw- 
berries mashed in an earthen vessel and well sweetened, pour on 
and cover with the crust removed. Sprinkle white sugar on top. 

— A. E. McGrath. 

"Wafers. 

Six eggs, twelve tablespoons sweet milt, six tablespoons butter, 
one-half teaspoon soda. Mold with flour half an hour and roll thin. 

— Mrs. Luke IV. Finlay. 

Soft Ginger Bread. 

Two cups of molasses, one of softened butter, two tablespoons 
of ginger ; heat one cup of sweet milk and stir into it two heaping 
teaspoonfuls of soda, add a handful of flour to the molasses and 
butter, and as soon as the milk and soda boil pour them in, add 
flour until the mixture is as stiff as any cake batter; bake in a slow 
oven. 

By adding flour to this recipe until as soft as can be handled, 
rolled out and cut out with cake cutter, makes excellent small gin- 
ger cookies for children. — Mrs. H. F. Dix. 

Cream Cookies. 

One cup butter, one cup sour cream as thick as can be taken 
from the top of a cream jar, two cups sugar, two eggs, one teaspoon 
soda, flour to roll soft and thin, sprinkle thickly with sugar and 
roll the rolling-pin over once lightly ; cut and bake in a moderate 
oven. — Mrs. IV. A. Robinson. 

Soft Ginger Bread. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, one cup of butter, one 
cup of sweet milk, four cups sifted flour, four eggs, one tablespoon- 
ful ginger, one small teaspoonful soda dissolved in the sweet milk ; 
heat molasses, butter, sugar and ginger to a cream, beat the yolks 
light and pour into the cream mixture, then add the milk and soda 
and lastly the whites of eggs and flour alternately; bake in loaves 
or gems. — Mrs. George B. Peters. 



126 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Soft Cream Cookies. 

Three-quarters cup sour cream, one cup granulated sugar, one 
egg, one-quarter teaspoon soda, pinch of salt; mix very stiff with 
flour. — Mrs. J J'. A. Robinson. 

Tea Cakes. 

Six eggs, three cups sugar, one pound of butter, three quarts 
of flour, in which sift two teaspoons of soda and four of cream tar- 
tar, one cup sweet milk, spice to taste. Beat eggs and sugar to- 
gether, rub butter and flour together until thoroughly mixed. 

—Mrs. M. L. Hull. 

Chocolate Wafers. 

Six eggs, three quarts of fl )ur, one light pound of butter, one 
teacup of sweet milk, two teaspoons of soda and four of cream tar- 
ter; rub butter and flour together, beat eggs and sugar together, 
add a grated cake of chocolate, taking out nearly a cup to mix 
with sugar for sprinkling over the top, sprinkle before cooking. 

Mrs. E. H. Fin ley. 

Sugar Cookies. 

Two or three eggs (beaten separately), two cups of white 
sugar, one cup of butter or lard, one-half cup of sour milk, one 
teaspoon soda, a pinch of salt, flour enough to make a soft dough ; 
flavor* with lemon. Very nice. — Mrs. Hamcl. 

Drop Cakes. 

One cup sugar (dark is best), one-half cup of molasses, one 
egg, one-half cup of shortening, one-half cup of sour milk, two 
teaspoonfuls soda, ginger or cinnamon and two and one-half cups 
of flour. Make rather stiff and drop from the spoon in a large 
flat pan. 

Ginger Snaps. 

One cup of butter or lard, two cups of molasses ; boil together 
(let it just come to a boil). When cool add one tablespoonful each 
of soda and ginger, a pinch of salt, flour enough to roll. Knead 
well and roll very thin. Cut with ginger snap cutter. 

—Mrs. H. F. Dix. 

Jew Cakes. 

Four eggs beaten together, two cups brown sugar, one tumbler 
of citron, one tumbler of nuts (any kind, chopped fine), one table- 
spoonful each of cinnamon, cloves and allspice, one nutmeg, one 
teaspoon of soda, two of cream tartar stirred in the batter before 
putting in the flour, flour enough to roll out and cut like tea cakes. 
Two cups of sugar and whites of two eggs for icing. Conk as for 
ordinary icing, but not quite as much. — Through Mrs. E. H. Finley. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 127 

Tea Cakes. 

Three-fourths of a pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one 
teaspoonful yeast powder, five eggs, enough flour to make a soft 
dough. Season to taste. — Mary Gibson. 

Xea Cakes. 

Two and one-half cups of sugar, four eggs (whites and yolks), 
then beat one cup of butter (cream it), one-half cup of milk and tea- 
spoonful of yeast powder. Flavor with vanilla or lemon. Flour 
for soft dough. Cut cakes very thin. Don't grease the pan. Bake 
quickly. — Mrs. Annie Simmons. 

Ginger Bread "Without Egfgs. 

Three cups molasses, one cup butter, one cup sour milk, three 
teaspoons soda, three pints flour, spice to taste. — Mrs. E. H. Finley. 

Sweet "Wafers. 

One pint of flour, one teacup of sugar, three eggs, one table- 
spoonful of butter. Flavor with lemon. Mix as for cake and bake 
in wafer irons. 

French Crackers. 

One and one-half pounds each of flour and sugar, three-fourths 
of a pound of butter, whites of five eggs. Before cooking wash 
over with egg and dip in sugar. — Mrs. Luke W. Finlay. 



128 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 129 



130 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 131 



DRINKS. 



Coffee. 

Aside from having fresh coffee and being ground at the time 
of each making the requisites are boiling water and a sweet clean 
coffee pot. Never let grounds stand in the pot, or boil grounds 
over. If any cold coffee is left over, strain, set aside, and if used 
again heat hot, make a little fresh coffee, and add to the heated 
coffee. 

Coffee. 

Two tablespoonfuls of ground coffee allowed for each person. 
For six tablespoonfuls (or for three persons), place the coffee in a 
quart cup, add the half of a white of an egg, half a teacup of cold 
water, stir well, fill cup with boiling water, scald pot, and pour 
mixture in the pot, rinsing cup with a very little more boiling 
water, place a clean cloth over spout of pot, and boil ten minutes, 
set back on range, steep five minutes, strain in urn or coffee pot 
and serve with cream ; whipped cream is an addition and very like 
Vienna coffee. — Mrs. O. H. Benton. 

Chocolate. 

For one quart of milk use one ounce or square of baker's 
chocolate, sugar to taste ; place chocolate in a pan, set on back of 
range, and let it melt slowly ; when milk is boiling add the melted 
chocolate, stir until thoroughly mixed ; then take a Dover beater 
and beat on range until it foams, serve ; if liked vanilla or spices 
to taste. — Mis. 0. H. Benton. 

Tea. 

Always put water on to boil just before needed, and be sure 
it is boiling. Scald teapot, allow teaspoonful of tea to a cup, pour 
enough water on tea to cover, let steep a few minutes, strain in tea- 
pot and serve. A teapot for making the tea with strainer inside I 
prefer, and while it is with housekeepers as to the tea preferred I 
recommend Lipton's Ceylon tea. — Mrs. O. H. Benton. 

Spiced Chocolate. 

One quart milk, two squares chocolate, one stick cinnamon, a 
pinch of grated nutmeg; grate chocolate, boil the milk, reserving 
a little cold to moisten chocolate, which must be mixed to a smooth 
paste ; put the cinnamon in the milk, when it boils stir in the 
chocolate with four tablespoons of sugar, pour in the chocolate pot, 
then put in the nutmeg ; serve with whipped cream on each cup. 



132 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Raspberry Vinegar. 

Put ripe, fresh berries in a bowl and cover with good apple 
vinegar. Let stand twenty-four hours, then pour in a flannel bag 
and suspend to drain. Allow one pound loaf sugar for each pound 
of liquid (less sugar may be used if this quantity is thought to be 
too much), pour into a granite saucepan and let it just come to a 
boil and bottle. The bottles need not be sealed. One or more 
tablespoonfuls over crushed ice makes a delightful beverage. 

— Mrs. J. H. Allen. 

mint Cordial. 

Carefully wash and pick the mint leaves, cover them with the 
best old whisky. Let this stand for twenty-four hours in a closely 
covered dish. Pour off the whisky, and to each pint add one- 
fourth of a pound of crushed sugar. Cork tightly and it can be 
used in one week. Refreshing to the sick served with crushed ice. 

— Mrs. Wormeley. 

Orangeade. 

Peel three oranges thinly, boil the peel with three-fourths of a 
pound of cut sugar in a pint of water ; add to this the juice of 
fifteen oranges and three pints of cold water ; strain all and set on 
ice for an hour. Serve as lemonade. — English. 

Strawberry Water. 

One pound of ripe strawberries ; sprinkle over them one-half 
pound of sugar ; let stand fifteen minutes ; add one quart of cold 
water and the juice of one lemon. Let all stand fifteen minutes; 
strain and cool. — London. 

Eggnog. 

Twelve eggs, twelve heaping tablespoonfuls white sugar, one 
pint cream ; beat yellow very light, add sugar and beat together ; 
then add the well-beaten whites, stir in whisky (to taste) very 
slowly ; put slice of lemon in each glass, eggnog on top of it, then 
the whipped cream, and lastly a little grated nutmeg. 

— Mrs. George B. Peters. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 133 



134 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 1*5 



CANDIES. 

Peanut Candy. 

Some gloomy day when young folks yawn, 

And wish the weary hours were gone, 

Go to your store-room and there get 

Brown sugar, heavy, almost wet. 

Send some one to a peanut stand, 

A quart, fresh roasted, you'll demand; 

Set all the children shelling these, 

And make them whistle, if you please. 

When these are shelled, chop, not too fine, 

Butter some piepans, set in line, 

Then take a pound of sugar, turn 

Into a pan and melt, not burn, 

But add no water. When 'tis done, 

And like thick syrup, quickly run 

Your chopped up peanuts, lightly salt, 

And turn them in. If there's no fault, 

Stir just a minute, pour in tins, 

Cool, and then the fun begins. 

— Florence E. Pratt. 

Chocolate Candy. 

Pick out one cup of pecans or English walnuts, cut in small 
pieces, two cups of granulated sugar, two heaping teaspoons of butter, 
two-thirds of a cup of fresh sweet milk, and one and one-half 
ounces of baker's chocolate grated ; put all the ingredients (except 
the chocohte and nuts) in a granite saucepan, and cook over a 
moderate fire until thick, probably twenty minutes, stirring often ; 
then add chocolate and a teaspoonful of vanilla ; after mixing well 
stir in nuts and pour in a greased dish ; when nearly cold cut in 
small pieces. — Irma Lee Jones. 

Pull Candy. 

Three cups of sugar, water and vinegar mixed to equal one 
cup, butter size of a hickory nut; flavor to taste. — Irma Lee Jones. 

Pudges. 

One-half cup chocolate, two cups milk, four cups sugar, butter 
size of an egg. Stir as little as possible during boiling. When 
candy does not discolor water when dropped into it it is done. 
Then take off stove and stir until nearly hard. Pour on buttered 
plate. If continued stirring will not harden it add a little more 
milk and boil again slowly. — W. M. E. 



136 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Brown Nougat. 

To one cup of almonds, blanched and chopped fine, take two 
cups of granulated sugar, put sugar in a granite saucepan, place 
over quite a hot fire, begin to stir at once and stir until entirely 
dissolved, being very careful not to burn, when dissolved stir in 
the nuts and pour immediately on a marble slab, which has been 
well greased ; after standing about half a minute roll with rolling- 
pin, which also has been greased, then slip a knife under the edge 
and turn over quickly, roll again until thin. While warm mark 
with a knife as deeply as possible in the size pieces you wish, and 
when cold will easily break where the mark is. — Irma Lee Jones. 

Chocolate Creams. 

Three cups XXX sugar, dampen thoroughly with water, let 
boil until hairs from fork, take off, put kettle in cold water until 
candy is cool enough to put fingers in, then pour in dish and beat 
with wooden spoon until thick enough to knead with hand. After 
well creamed flavor with essence of peppermint and work well in. 
Put this in cups and set in hot water to melt until the consistency 
of cream. Drop from teaspoon on wax paper. When cold drop 
into melted sweet chocolate and drop back on wax paper. 

— Rosa B. Taylor. 

Chocolate^ Caramels. 

One cup grated chocolate, two and one-half cups brown sugar, 
one-half cup West Ind. molasses, two-thirds cup milk or cream, 
butter the size of an egg. Let boil until quite thick, stirring con- 
stantly. Just as you remove from the fire stir in one tablespoon of 
vanilla and beat very hard for a few minutes, then pour out on 
buttered plates and before it is thoroughly cold cut in squares. 

— Miss Annie Mc Clung. 

Pecan Kisses. 

Take one jelly glass of pecan kernals, having the nuts as nearly 
in halves as possible. Into the whites of six eggs put fourteen 
tablespoons of granulated sugar — have the spoons a little more than 
level full. Mix the eggs and sugar and heat thoroughly long and 
well, until they are stiff and will stand on paper without running. 
Beat in lightly the pecans and drop on smooth brown paper and 
bake in a moderate oven. — Mrs. R. B. Maury. 

Pecan Egg Kisses. 

Whites of six eggs, fourteen rounded tablespoons sugar, one 
cup pecans chopped. Put eggs and sugar together and beat for 
one hour, then stir in pecans. Have pans with brown paper in 
them ready. Drop from teaspoon on paper and cook in slow oven 
for an hour.— Z. C. T. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 137 

Chocolate Caramels. 

Three pounds of sugar, one-half pound of butter, one cup sweet 
milk, one cake of baker's chocolate. Cook until a little stirred 
rapidly with a spoon in a saucer will turn to sugar. Flavor with 
vanilla, pour on a buttered dish and cut in squares. 

Cinnamon Balls. 

Three cups light brown sugar, one and one-half cups sweet 
milk, boil until it will thread, and beat until cool enough and make 
in balls ; while heating sprinkle in chopped hickory nuts. Roll 
balls in cinnamon and stick a clove in each.— Miss Lydia Lewis. 

Butter Cups. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup water, pinch of cream tartar ; 
boil until it will harden in cold water, pour in a buttered pan to 
cool. Meanwhile prepare some thin rolls of fondant. As soon as 
the candy is cool enough to handle, pull it until it is white, keep 
near the fire to keep it pliable ; form flat strips broad enough to en- 
close the rolls of fondant. Encase the rolls in these strips and cut 
into half inch lengths with scissors. — Mrs. L. Bossoms. 

White Taffy. 

Take two cups of sugar, one cup of boiling water and two tea- 
spoons of butter, flavor to taste, do not stir, boil until it threads, 
pull white. — Miss M. Mitchell. 

Cream Dates. 

Remove the seeds from dates and replace with blanched al- 
monds, enclosed in fondant. — Mrs. F. C. Huse. 

Cream Peppermints. 

Put one pound of sugar, a gill of water and a teaspoonful of 
cream tartar in a saucepan, stir until the sugar is dissolved, boil 
until it is soft and sticky when dropped in water, pour the mixture 
upon a large dish ; when cool beat until soft and creamy, put it 
again into a clean saucepan, put this in a larger one of boiling 
water, add three drops of oil of peppermint, drop a half teaspoon- 
ful on greased paper. 

Cocoanut Candy. 

Use equal quantities of loaf sugar and grated cocoanut, add 
enough cocoanut milk to moisten the sugar, boil very fast and stir 
often ; when it begins to sugar, stir in the cocoanut as quickly as 
possible, pour in a buttered dish and cut with a warm knife. 

— Mrs. Mary Jordan. 



138 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 139 



Miscellaneous Recipes and Suggestions. 

A Recipe for a Day. 

Take a little dash of water cold 

And a little leaven of prayer, 
And a little bit of morning gold 

Dissolved in the morning air. 

Add to your meal some merriment 
And a thought for kith and kin, 

And then as your prime ingredient 
A plenty of work thrown in. 

But spice it all with the essence of love 

And a little whiff of play; 
Let a wise old book and a glance above 

Complete the well-made day. 

— Housekeeper 's Weekly. 



For the Little Folks. 

"In silence I must take my seat 
And give God thanks before I eat; 
Must for my food in patience wait 
Till I am asked to hand my plate. 
I must not scold, nor whine, nor pout, 
Nor move my chair or plate about ; 
With knife, or fork, or napkin ring, 
I must not p'ay — nor must I sing. 
I must not speak a useless word, 
For children must be seen — not heard. 
I must not talk about my food, 
Nor fret if I don't think it good. 
My mouth with food I must not crowd, 
Nor while I'm eating speak aloud. 
Must turn my head to cough or sneeze, 
And when I ask, say ' If you please.' 
The table-cloth I must not soil; 
Must keep my seat when I have done, 
Nor round the table sport or run. 
When told to rise, then I must put 
My chair away, with noiseless foot, 
And lift my heart to God above 
In praise for all his wondrous love." 



To banish red ants from the pantry strew whole cloves about 
upon the shelves. This is said to exterminate moths also. 



140 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Ravioli Italiana. 

In preparing the ravioli make the gravy first, the dressing next 
and the pastry last. The following will make enough for twelve 
persons : 

Gravy. — Have ready two pounds of lean beef, one onion, one 
pod of garlic, one tablespoon each of parsley and thyme chopped 
fine, half can of tomatoes chopped in their liquor, one teacup of dry 
mushrooms washed and put in enough warm water to cover them, set 
on back of stove to soak ; put two tablespoons of butter and two of 
olive oil in a stewpan, and when very hot put in the beef and let 
brown, then add the onions, garlic, parsley and thyme chopped 
fine ; when this is brown add the tomatoes and let cook about ten 
minutes, then add the mushrooms, with liquor in which they were 
soaked. When the mushrooms are put in add three teacups of 
water, pepper and salt to taste, and cook two and a half hours. 

Dressing. -One dozen eggs, 10 cents worth of spinach, one 
set of brains, half pound of pork sausage, one teacup of grated 
Edam cheese, three tablespoons olive oil, three crackers rolled fine, 
one tablespoon each of parsley and thyme chopped fine, pepper and 
salt to taste. Boil the spinach and brains (in separate vessels) 
until tender and chop fine ; break the eggs into a large bowl and 
stir in the spinach and brains, then add the sausage, grated cheese, 
olive oil, crackers, parsley, thyme, pepper and salt and stir until 
thoroughly mixed. 

Pastry. — One quart of flour, whites off three eggs, teaspoon- 
ful salt, three tablespoons olive oil, add water to make stiff; knead 
for ten minutes, divide into three or four equal parts, then roll each 
very thin. Put about one teaspoon of dressing in rows one inch 
apart (to form squares) until half of the dough is covered, then fold 
the other half over the dressing and press the dough tightly be- 
tween each square with your fingers or the edge of hand, then cut 
apart and lay on board to dry; repeat this until all the dressing is 
used. (It requires about thirty minutes for them to dry.) Have a 
large pot (about a gallon and a half or two gallons) of boiling water 
ready, put in about one-third of the ravioli at a time and boil five 
minutes (too long will cook them to pieces), take out with ladle, 
pour them into colander and drain thoroughly of water, put a layer 
on a large dish and cover with a layer of grated cheese and gravy, 
then another layer of ravioli, and another of the cheese and gravy 
until you have three layers of each on a dish. Serve hot with good 
claret.— Mrs. IV. N. Page. 



Garnish means to add to meat, poultry or salads a trimming. 
In dishing up roast meat lay a spoonful of jelly just on the slice to 
be served to one person. Celery and parsley leaves, hard boiled 
eggs, water cresses, lettuce and jellies are the principal articles 
used. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 141 

Syrup. 

Five pounds of brown sugar, three and one-fourth pints of 
cold water, one tablespoonful of salt. Boil hard fifteen minutes. 

— F. Ellen Shanks. 

Traveling Lunch. 

Chop sardines, ham and pickles quite fine. Mix pepper, salt, 
catsup and vinegar. Spread between thin bread and butter. 

Ham Sandwiches. 

Take some boiled ham, chop very fine, mix with a dressing 
composed of one dessertspoon of mustard, two of oil, one raw egg 
(beaten light) and a little salt and pepper. Cut bread very thin. 

Scraffle. 

Take three or four fresh pork hocks, put in a pot, cover well 
with cold water and boil slowly until the meat falls from the bones, 
then remove from the fire and chop the meat very fine. Strain the 
water, put back in the pot, add the chopped meat, teaspoonful of 
sage (rubbed as fine as possible), salt, black and red pepper. There 
should be water enough to cover the meat well. When the mixture 
begins to boil stir in a quart of cornmeal and cook about half an 
hour. Pour into a large pan or bowl to cool. Slice and fry. In 
cold weather it will keep for a week or two. — N. V. Duval 

Cheese Straws. 

One-half pound of dried flour, one-fourth pound of butter, 
some of grated cheese, saltspoon of salt, the same of dry mustard, 
a tiny bit of cayenne pepper. Rub butter in flour and mix with an 
egg (well beaten), roll thin and cut in strips about six inches long. 
Bake in a quick oven until a light brown. 

— Mrs. V. C. McGaramy, Kentucky. 

Cream Cheese Pie. 

One pint of cream cheese rubbed smooth with a spoon, one 
cup of sugar and the yolks of four eggs (well beaten), a piece of 
butter the size of a large egg, pinch of salt, the grated peel of one 
lemon ; add last the whites of the eggs beaten very light. Bake in 
a rich crust. — JV. V. D. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

If a small tablespoonful of molases, with a fourth of a tea- 
spoonful (very scant measure) soda put in the molasses and boiling 
water poured over (just enough to dissolve soda) and added to your 
cakes just before baking, it will make cakes brown and sweet. 

— Mrs. O. H. Benton. 



One-half teaspoon of dry mustard sprinkled over "navy beans" 
before baking is a great improvement. — L. D. E. 



142 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

Warm Slaw. 

Take the yolks of four eggs to one medium size head of cab- 
bage. Cut up fine and mix with chopped celery or celery seed. 
Add to the beaten yolks one pint of new milk, one pint of vinegar, 
salt, pepper and sugar to taste and a little mustard. When it comes 
to a boil (stir all the time) throw in the cabbage and let it scald. 
Set aside to cool for dinner. It should be made early in the morn- 
ing.— N. V. D. 

Apple and Celery Salad. 

Peel and cut crisp apples into cubes and have as much crisp 
celery cut fine as you have of the fruit. Sprinkle them with salt 
and mix with a little mayonaise dressing. Place in a dish and 
cover with thick mayonaise dressing. Garnish around the edge 
with white leaves of celery and scatter a few pecan nut malts over 
the dressing. Have the apples and celery very cold before cutting 
them. Nice to serve with game. — N. V. D. 

Invalid's and Infant's Food. 

Six tablespoons of barley boiled two hours in a double boiler 
in one quart of cistern water, strain while hot, add a pinch of salt, 
and a little sugar and nutmeg, half the quantity of rich milk or 
cream, and the whites of two eggs well beaten, flavor with whisky 
or brandy to taste; this well stirred together and placed in a cool 
place, in a close jar, will keep for two or three days. Dose for in- 
valid two tablespoons every two hours. — Mrs. O. M. Peck. 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

Proper Relishes. 

For Turkey — Cranberry jelly. 

For Roast Duck — Apple sauce or orange jelly. 

For Roast Goose — Apple sauce. 

For Chicken — Cranberry jelly. 

For Quail or Small Birds — Currant or plum jelly. 

For Venison — Currant or plum jelly. 



If you are to have a friend or two to dinner indulge in a roast. 
Cold beef, mutton, lamb and veal are nice if sliced thin and served 
with vegetables. The cold meat can be made into timbals, cro- 
quettes, escalloped dishes, hashed on toast, or to be warmed in a 
brown or white sauce. — Ladies' Home Journal. 

For creams and custards eggs should never be beaten in tin, 
but always in stone or earthenware, as there is some chemical in- 
fluence about tin which prevents their attaining that creamy light- 
ness so desirable. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 143 

Cleaning Fluid. 

Five cents worth of saltpetre, ammonia and shaving soap dis- 
solved in one quart of rain-water. Good for a thousand things. 
Takes grease out of carpets beautifully. 

How to Clean Water Bottles. 

Chop raw potato fine, with a tablespoonful of salt, let stand in 
bottle a couple of hours, shake well, then rinse. — Mrs. S. C. E. 

For Cleaning Silver. 

One ounce of chalk, cover this good with alcohol, three table- 
spoonfuls hartshorn, one teaspoonful of liquid camphor, and ten 
drops of turpentine. Make consistency of cream, if needed add 
more alcohol. Keep corked in bottle. — Mrs. Hadden. 

Carpet Wash. 

One cake Ivory, cut in fine shavings, boil in one gallon of 
water until dissolved ; add four ounces borax, four ounces salsoda, 
stir five minutes, add four gallons of cold soft water and one-half 
pint of alcohol. Use with a stiff brush, rub with clean cloth and 
soft water, rub again with dry cloth. 

For Cleaning Clothes. 

Two and a half ounces of ammonia, two ounces white castile 
soap, three-fourths of an ounce of spirits of lime, one-fourth of an 
ounce of glycerine, one-half of an ounce of ether. Dissolve the 
soap in two quatts of hot water, add all together, boil and then 
bottle for use. 

Care of Oilcloth. 

All housekeepers do not realize that it is want of economy to 
neglect the constant care of oilcloth. The secret of its getting out 
of order and rotting so soon, says a writer in Ohio Farmer, is gen- 
erally because it was not carefully treated from the first. A piece 
of oilcloth is put down new and left some length of time without 
more attention than ordinary sweeping. Its owner thinks that it 
still looks well and fresh (and it does), and she does not care to 
waste her time and strength on it till it really needs it. But all 
this time small particles of dust and dirt have been collecting in 
the little crevices and small cell-like holes found in all oilcloth, and 
before she realizes that the piece she just tacked down is anything but 
new, dampness has gathered in the little dirt spots and the goods 
are beginning to rot, or at least to become dull and dingy, ana the 
little holes filled up with dirt. 

There is a great deal of course in selecting a good piece of oil- 
cloth. Cheap goods are not worth buying. It depends for durable 



144 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND 

qualities on the paint and varnish used. If these are poor the 
cloth will not last long, though it may look as well as a better piece 
at first. Cheap goods have a filling of fish oil, which never hardens, 
or is finished with rosin varnish that becomes brittle and soon cracks 
and wears off. 

Never scrub or rub oilcloth hard. Don't wait for it to show 
signs of wear, dirt or defacement, but once a week wipe it thor- 
oughly with warm skim milk, using a soft flannel cloth, and be 
careful to wipe it dry. If milk is not at hand use lukewarm water 
or cold tea. But the warm, skimmed milk both cleanses and 
brightens, and also helps to preserve the cloth. About twice a 
year oilcloth may be washed with hot soapsuds, but it must be 
done very briskly and dried thoroughly, and then either varnished 
or wiped off with warm skimmed milk, as above. Any of the 
products of petroleum or kerosene are good, but they do not impart 
any varnish. They simply clean it. It must be wiped off quickly, 
and very little used. Two tablespoonfuls of kerosene in a gallon 
of soft water is about the right proportion. If your cloth is old and 
defaced and not capable of being brightened up, wash it with warm 
water and sapolio or sand soap. Dry well. It may be wiped off 
afterward with a very little ammonia. But do not use ammonia 
on good oilcloth, as it is injurious, both to paint and varnish. Wash 
off with clear, soft water after having used ammonia. The same 
writer says : 

To clean linoleum, first wash with soap and water or kerosene, 
wiping it dry. Then go over it with a flannel cloth dipped in a 
solution of equal parts of olive oil (that made from cotton seed or 
peanuts will answer here) and sharp vinegar. Use flannel and rub 
dry. Soda is used by some housekeepers, but it is a mistake, as it 
injures paint and oil, Loth of which enter into the make-up of 
linoleum. * 



A dash of black pepper generally improves vanilla ice cream. 

When using vanilla for flavoring add half teaspoonful of peach 
extract. 

Make snow cake with arrow root flour, and you will be sur- 
prised at the difference. 

Put sugar in water for basting meats of all kinds. It adds a 
flavor, especially to veal. 

Add a cup of good cider vinegar to the water in which you 
boil fish, especially if it is salt fish. 

Boston baked beans can be greatly improved by adding a cup 
of sweet cream the last hour of baking. 

When baking fish place on top thin slices of salt pork ; it 
bastes the fish and improves the flavor. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 145 

Clear boiling water will remove tea stains. Pour the water 
through the stain and then prevent the spreading. 

Three tablespoonfuls of freshly-made Japan tea with a pinch 
of nutmeg imparts an indescribable flavor to an apple pie. 

No cooking vessels are really fit to be used for boiling or stew- 
ing vegetables, stewing fruit, etc., except those which are of granite- 
ware or porcelain-lined. 




t iQE ARE quite sure that all the readers of and 
contributors to this Cook Book, and several 
thousand more of our Memphis ladies will testify that 
these firms can be recommended. 



Fortune, Ward & Co., 

Every Street Car Passes 0pP0§Ite Cdltineiltal BaillC. 



Our Door. 



Drugs, Imported and Domestic 
Toilet Articles, Requisites 
for Sick, Mineral Waters. 

Prescription Department the Most Complete in the South. 



TOWNER & CO., 

RUBBER GOODS 

Hot Water Bottles, Syringes, 
Rubber Gloves, Etc. 

Rubber Boots and Shoes, 

Main and Jefferson Sts., Memphis, Tenn. 



Sites & Ames, 

Fulton Market 



239 SECOND STREET. 



All Delicacies in Season.: 



TELEPHONE 860. 




W@7 ^Jff 1KMW&V& 



*i«^Sw vjsw wvAwtwa ^ 





In St.. MEMPHIS, TMBHIffi 











ai 



The Best Shoes 

AT LOWEST PRICES. 



345 Main St., 



Memphis, Tenn. 



Carry your Prescriptions to 



r , 



&< 



WASHBURN'S 
DRUG STORE, 



439 Orleans Street. 








^M© 



ROT [u^lp)( 



Importers of exclusive designs in Silks, 
Dress Goods, Wraps, Costumes, 
Carpets and Draperies. 

THE LARGEST STOCKS. THE HOST REASONABLE PRICES 



'ftDWEU. 




flAlNST. 
ARTISTIC 

FOOT WEAR. 



Chafing Dishes, 
Salad Bowls, 

Cut GlaSS and 



Wedding Gifts. 



C. L. BYRD & CO., 

290 Main Street. 

Electric Supply Co. 

Gas and Electric Fixtures, 
Electrical Supplies and 
Contracting - 



Telephone 1600. 



298 SECOND ST. 





M 






FOR RENT. 

100 New Upright Pianos 

WITH OPTION OF PURCHASE, 
ONE YEAR'S RENT TO APPLY 

O. K. HOUCK & CO., 

359 Main Street. Telephone 388. 








Edward Hunter & Co. 

THE CROWING 

DRY GOODS AND MILLINERY HOUSE 

THE URGKST STOCK OF THE KIKD IN THE SOUTH. 




H. A. CARROLL & CO., 

Paints, Windouu Glass, 
Wall Paper, Etc. 



Memphis Paint Factory, 
204 and 206 Gayoso Street. 



Store and Office. 
332 Main Street. 



IMIlEiLvdIIFIEIIS, TEnsritT. 



HUNT &. BRO. 

"HIGH GRADE" 

COAL AND COKE 

Continental Building, MEMPHIS, TENN. 

A. R. TAYLOR & CO. 

Booksellers and 
Stationers— *~ 

318 MAIN STREET, MEMPHIS. TENN. 
Agents for the Smith-Premier Typewriter. 



Auditorium Theatre 

the peoples popular 
pleasure place. 

Presenting Only First-Class Attractions. 

Prices: 10 to 50 Cents. 



V\ 




Wholesale Wines and Liquors, 

213 Main St., Memphis, Tenn. 

Gieselmann & Sommer, 

^ptUmxiffl and <Sft*mtot& 

Sole Importers . K . . , ,-, ■ , 

,.-,, rp ^ T tD , ,, Main and oea e otreets. 

"The True Persian Insect Powder." mB1 " u***«*i»# v.. ^^i.»». 

Edward Moon. Howell Turner. 

Edward Moon & Co., 



Dealers in 



Grain, Feed Stuff and Mill Products, 

HAY, CHOPS, OATS, BRAN, CORN, 
OIL MEAL, HULLS, GRAIN SACKS, 

Lime, Cement and Rock Sa/t ; 
349 Front St., Memphis, Tenn. 



FRANK SCHUMANN, TE LEPH ^ NE -i 2 2 J^ 

GUNS, PISTOLS, BICYCLES, FISHING TACKLE, 

Athletic and A^^TT^X^^ Ammunition, 

Sporting Goods. ^|j|P^ ^ Fine pocket ^ 




Repairing Done |^ /p^^N^4J7^,,A^i^| Cutlery, Etc. 

in First-Class Manner. V *& "^■i^ VW ^«s 

Agency for Victor Bicycles. 

414 Main Street, JwlEMFHIS, TENN. 



H. J. Reiner, 



Telephone 1218. 



ZDZE-^XjEIR, I*T 



Fresh Meats, 



Oysters, Poultry, Fruits and Vegetables, 
Staple and Fancy Groceries. 

101 Charleston Avenue, MEMPHIS, TENN, 



L. BAUER, 



All the Latest and Correct 
Novelties Constantly 
on Hand. 



DRY GOODS, MILLINERY, 
BOOTS AND SHOES, 

404 MAIN STREET, MEMPHIS, TENN. 

IT. BENSIECK 

-"-^-WHOLESALE AND RETA!L-4-°- 

Baker and Confectioner, 

"Wedding Cakes, Pyramids and Cakes for Balls and Parties, 

Ice Cream and Candies. 

94 and 96 Beale St., MEMPHIS, TENN. 

MY LABEL IS A GUARANTY OF PURITY. 

TELEPHONE ~r^}0?tf/^frales/??-z^ NEAR 

450. /' ^Apothecary, '. WELLINGTON. 

K-^r. 214 Beale St., Memphis. Tenn, 

PRESCRIPTIONS MY SPECIALTY. 

Only Registered Pharmacist Employed. 

Every Article Fresh and Pure. Night Bell Promptly Answered. 

My Prices are the Lowest. Bicycle for Quick Delivery. 



B. J. SEMMES& CO., 

WINE MERCHANTS, 



Hn OUR 

UCjULCf 



IRVING 
BLOCK. 



REGISTERED. ~ _' 



T. B. JONES & CO., 

GRAIN DEALERS, 

No. 9 UNION STREET, MEMPHIS, TENN. 

The KREMER CO. 

Millinery, Dress Goods and Wraps. 

LEADING HOUSE FOR 
STYLISH GOODS. 

W. C. STIE^bE, 

Staple and Fancy Groceries 

HAY, CORN, OATS, BRAN, ETC. 
Telephone 916. c< T* r H ! Ml " ipp ! ' Aveuue 

r and Provine street. 

W. A. GAGE & CO., 

Cotton Factors, 

300 Front St., Memphis, Tenn. 



We Have a Large Assortment of 

CUT GLASS, FINE CHINA, ETC. 

Wedding Presents of Every Description. 

The Memphis Queensware Co., 330 Main St. 

J— MM— ■^mMIMMTT ■MBIIB1I M ■ ■■■■■II llll»MI» — I !!■ — HWMWWII —M 1^^^ 

VICTOR D. FUCHS, Tele phone 93 ' 

ZDZE-A-XjEIK. X3ST 

MEATS, OYSTERS, FISH, GAME, CELERY, POULTRY 

Vegetables and Fruit in Season. 
39 & 41 Jefferson St., MEMPHIS, TENN. 

CHAS. HATTENDORF, 

Fresh Meats and Vegetables, 

TELEPHONE 913. 350 VANCE STREET. 

JOHN HILLSTROM & CO. 

Memphis Steam Carpet 
Cleaning and Renovating: Works, 

Telephone 636. 220 BEALE STREET, Near Wellington. 

HARRY L. SAWYER, 

Waverly Bicycles, 

308 Second St., MEMPHIS. 



The John Gerber Company 



INCORPORATED. 

1 



Dealers in 



FINE DRY GOODS, 



NOTIONS AND GENTS' FURNISHING GOODS, 

267 MAIN STREET, Opposite Court Square, IM IT IV/I DU IO TTMM 

AND 19 COURT STREET. M t M TH lO, I LINN. 



acosrsTTiLjT^TicaNr free. 

BENJAMIN GLASER,_j^^l— -Austrja, 
Scientific Optician, 

318 Main Street, 'PHONE 56. MEMPHIS, TENN. 



SOUTHWESTERN PHOTO FINISHING GO,, 



H. L. COOK. 
T. A. FOSBY. 



No. 7 Madison Street, 

We Don't Push tie Button, tot flo lie Rest, 

Kodak Pictures Finished. Transparencies, Lantern Slides, etc. 
Bromide Enlargements, Film and Plate Developing. 



7? 



402 LINDEN STREET, Cor. Orleans. 

Chase & Sanborn Coffee, Imported Teas, all kinds of Imported 

Macaroni, Olive Oil, French Peas, Mushrooms, 

and all other Fine Goods a Specialty. 

Best Creamery Butter and Granulated Sugar. 

~MARTTN JUDGE, 



DEALER 1ST 



Staple and Fancy Groceries, 

LIQUORS AND CIGARS, 
No. 113 Beale Street, MEMPHIS TF\N 

NEAR HERNANDO. WI Ui¥l I A 1 lUj 1I><>1\| 

Established I860. 



A. Renkert & Co., 



Wholesale 
and Retail 



DRUGGISTS, 



215 Main Street, Cor. Adams, MEMPHIS, TENN. 

TELEPHONE 208. 



MRS. E. WILLINGHAM, 



DEALER IN- 



Groceries and Pure Jersey Cream .... 

437 ORLEANS STREET, 

Telephone 1411. MEMPHIS, TENN. 






WHOLESALE AND RETAIL 



Cigar Specialist, 

The Best Only. Jtfemghi$, ^enn. 



C. F. DeGARIS, Pres't. 

J. A. STRONG, Sec'y & Treas. 

A. L. DUVAL, Gen'IMgr. 



DeGaris Printing Co., 

Printer Hi Binde^, 

Telephone 405. 341 Second Street. 

A. if. WOETHAM & CO., 

»Or*- DEALERS IN -J-*-'® 

...Staple and Fancy Groceries... 

FRUIT AND VEGETABLES, 

175 Main Street, MEMPHIS, TENN. 

Johnston & Vance Co. 

TAILOR-MADE CLOTHING, 

FURBISHING GOODS, 
303 MA.N STREET, MEMPHIS, TENN. 

UNDER PEARODY HOTEL. , " 1 """ ■■■V| ■ ■a.III'.l 



Suits and Shirts Made to Order. 



GEO. T. BRODNAX, 

^#Diamonds, Watches, Silverwares^ 

ARTISTIC JEWELBY, CUT GLASS, 

SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO 34 1 MAIN STREET, 

WATCH REPAIRING. Memphis, Tenn. 



Lumber, Sash, 
Doors and Blinds, 

Any Bank or Merchant in the City. Jjl6IHplll§, J^GHH. 



MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF 
MARBLE AND GRANITE _«, 



TOMBSTONES, STATUARY, ETC. 

DUNLAP AVENUE, CORNER BROADWAY, MPTnTlhl\ TpTITI 

NORTH ENTRANCNE ELMWOOD CEMETERY. 1VI tJllL|JlHo, IVslLU* 

TERMINOU3 BEALE AND LANE AVE. CARS, SOUTH. 



Eagle Mill Company, 



JOHN K. SPEED, President. 
S. II. BROOKS, Vice-President. 
T. B. ANDREWS, Secretary 4 Treai. 



FOOT OF WASHINGTON STREET, MEMPHIS, TENN. 

"*""'"'"•" of HIGHEST GRADE WINTER WHEAT FLOUR. 



Ask your Grocery for "Dixie" and "Cavalier" 
Flour, also "Eagle" Corn Meal. 



Gayoso Book Store, 

~§tationery, School and lo)lank 13>ooRs,^ 

OFFICE SUPPLIES, NEWSPAPERS AND PERIODICALS, 

TELEPHONE 1117. 331 MAIN STREET. 

J. C. TREHERNE, Apothecary, 

CORNER HERNANDO AND VANCE ST6. 
SHobi-cinea anb SicfV cftoom cHccm-iditca. 

Fine Perfumery and Toilet Articles of every description. Our Ex- 
tracts of Vanilla and Lemon are unexcelled for 
richness and delicacy of flavor. 

Lemmon & Gale Company, 

WHOLESALE 

ZDlR^r GrOOIDS, ILTOTIOlsIS, 

AND GENTS FURNISHING GOODS, 

326 & 328 Main Street, MEMPHIS, TENN. 

TRAUBE & HAMMER, 

Dry Goods 

AND GENTS FURNISHING GOODS, 
235 Main Street, MEMPHIS, TENN. 

GEO. H. BATTIER, 

Telephone 450. DrUggtStj 

Cut Prices on Everything. 

Open All Night. Corner Beale and Hernando. 



MERGLE'S MARKET, 



-DEALER IN- 



FRESH MEATS, OYSTERS, FISH, GAME, 

POULTRY AND VEGETABLES IN SEASON, 
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES. 

Telephone 994. free delivery. Gor. VANCE AND DeSOTO STREETS. 

WILLIAMS & CO. 

Lumber Dealers, 

Office, Gayoso and Second Sts., MEMPHIS, TENN. 

G. E. WITT. I. A. BAILEY. 

J. A. BAILEY & CO. 
Plumbing and Electric Supplies, 

GAS AND ELECTRIC- CHANDELIERS, 

Cor. Union and Second Sts., MEMPHIS, TENN. 

D. O'DONNELL <5c CO. 



-GENERAL AGENTS FOR THE- 



SILURIAN MINERAL SPRING CO,, OF WAUKESHA, WIS. 

Also Agents for Apollinaris "Water 

AND DEALERS IN 

BAR SUPPLIES AND GLASSWARE. 

TELEPHONE 977. 44 MONROE STREET. 

MATT. STEWART & CO. 



DEALERS IN- 



General Jj Builders' Hardware, 

Farming Implements, Cutlery and Mechanics' Fine Tools, 

tel_e:rhone: iisi. 
30 Second Street, Near Union, MEMPHIS, TENN. 



R. G. Craig's Book Store, 

RELIGIOUS, SCHOOL ADD BLANK BOORS, 

SUNDAY-SCHOOL SUPPLIES, ETC.. ETC 

REMOVED TO 

392 ZMZ^insr Steeet. 



A. B. TREADWELL & CO. 

Wholesale Fancy Grocers, 

376 & 378 Front St., Memphis, Tenn. 

Ralph Wormeley & Co., 

PLUMBERS . £™£ ™°. 

Southern Agents Hot Water and Steam Heating 

Cleveland Beer Pumps. a Specialty. 

TELEPHONE 644. 

Office and Shops, 41 Monroe St., MEMPHIS, TENK 

This Space 

BELONGS TO 

Memphis Floral Co. 

The Up=To=Date 
Forists 



Oak Hall Clothing House, 

. . . Leaders of Styles . . . 



251 Main Street, Memphis, Tenn. 

ASK YOUR GROCER FOR 

MORAN'S Java Blend Roasted Coffee. 

IT IS THE BEST.— FOR SALE BY ALL GROCERS. 

Beware of all Brands of Coffee that are roasted abroad, glazed and adulterated 

by being loaded down with starch, gums and water, which 

make them tough, flat and unfit for use. 

"JAVA BLEND" is Always Fresh, Crisp and Good. 

P. J. MORAN & CO., Memphis, Tenn. 



W. H. Irby. 

F. M. Gilliland, Jr. 



Irby & Gilliland, 

China, Glas$ and Queensware, 

=Lamps, Tinware, Wood and Willow Ware= 
Cut Glass, White China for Decorating, 

37 UNION ST., between main and second, Memphis, Tenn. 

LOUIS LANGE, 

^French Corsets and Health Waists 



CORSETS MADE 
TO ORDER. 



■ Goldsmith & Bro. 

Dry Goods, 

^Millinery, Notions and Shoes 



MEMPHIS, TENN. 



Rawlings & Tisdale 



Lew Tisdale. 
Edw. L. Rawlings. 



Telephone 1291. 296 Second ^Ireel. 

FAIR DEALING METHODS. 

QUICK PBLITERTi £ £££££. 

Bacigalupo & Sawtelle, 

Wholesale and Retail 

Fancy Groceries, 

29 \tllM?,Z D £™r- Memphis, Tena. 

m ^ m ^ m ■ M^BH ^ ■■■ ■ ^ ^ M «MM W «■ MOM IMM MM MW,JM hMWMMM VIM H ^HB I 

The J. S. Menken [Company, 

AS YOU ALL KNOW, HAVE 

Killed High Prices for Furniture 

IN MEMPHIS. 

All Household Goods, Carpets, Chinaware and Blankets 

at the same low rates. 



Storm's Liver Regulator 

INSURES HEALTH. 

Price 50 Cents. • 



->♦•< 



James S. Robinson, 

...Apothecary... 
— _ Masonic Temple. 



J. K. SPEED. W, P. BROWN. 



John K. Speed gv Co. 

GENERAL 

Commission Merchants 



-A-isrx) 



Grain Dealers, 



384 Front St., Memphis, Tenn. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




*e Invited to ( 
our Magnificei 




014 358 363 6 • 



Superb Stoves i Ranges 

MADE OBY KC. "WETTER T^LTFO-. OO. 




Special 
Attention 
Given to 
Repairing. 




Garland Base Burners, Monitor Steel Ranges, 

GRANITEWARE AND KITCHEN UTENSILS. 




Langstaff Hardware Company, 

399 & 401 MAIN STREET, 



A FEW DOORS SOUTH OF MENKEN'S. 
NEXT DOOR TO GIBSON'S. 



Memphis, Tenn. 




