WORLD OF FAIR WOMEN. 



Demand for Beauty. 

Mary is artistic, 

So the neighbors say; 
Mary wants to keep -the house 

Blooming as the May. 
Pictures from the ceiling 

Clear down to the floor; 
"Tidies" on the armchair 

And banners on the door. 

Shouldn't be" astonished 

Some fine day to note 
Brilliant orchids broldered 

On my overcoat. 
'Twouldn't be amazing 

If dear Mi . >- should 
Paint a bunch of daisies 

On each stick of kindling wood. 

Washington Stff- 



MENU A\D RECIPE. 

BREAKFAST Apple porridge and cream, 
raised corn bread, brown hash, coffee. 

LUNCHEON Boston baked beans, 
squash gems and butter, olivetta salad, 
dainty diamonds, chocolate. 

DIXXER Clam bouillon, frlcandeau of 
veal, \vith mushroom sauce; Indian 
summer potatoes, cucumber loaf with 
mayonnaise, creme pear patties, salted 
almonds, black coffee. 

Boston Baked Beans Many recipes for 
linked beans have appeared in these col- 
umns, but none so good as these, the 
genuine Boston baked. Soak a quart 
of the small white beans over night in 
cold water. Pour off the water, cover 
with fresh and pour oft' again. Put over 
the fire with cold water to cover and half 
a saltspoonful of soda. When the water 
begins to boil pour it off at once and 
putting them in a colander, allow fresh 
water to run through them, rinsing 
them thoroughly. This gives them the 
ilrmness which keeps them from getting 
"^ushy." Lay a very thin slice of salt 
pork on the bottom of the baking dish; 
lay a small onion, left whole, on the pork 
and pour in the beans. Take half a 
pound of salt pork, score the rind every 
half inch and lower it in the beans, al- 
lowing just the rind to show. Add one 
teaspoonful of salt, unless the pork is 
very salty; if it is, only half a teaspoon- 
ful. Add saltspoonful of ground mustard, 
two tables-'iioonfuls of molasses (more if 
the beans are liked quite sweet), cover 
with cold water, set in a slow oven and 
.bake from eight to ten hours, having a 
low steady heat. As the water boils 
off. add more, but be sure that it is 
boiling, and do not add water within an 
hour of serving. They will be a beauti- 
ful brown, moist, tender and whole, 
with an indescribable flavor. By no 
means omit the onion. It adds much in 
the fine flavor. Serve hot or cold. 
Chicago Record. 



Spiced Oysters Drain the oysters, boil 
the liquor and skim off every particle of 
the froth. As soon as it comes to the 
boiling point drop in the oysters 1 and 
lot them plump. Drain the liquor from 
the oysters again, spreading them on 
a dish. Then put the liquor over the 
tire, adding a teaspoon of black un- 
ground pepper, a teaspoon of allspice, 
half a dozen sprigs of mace and salt to 
tarte. Just as scon as this boils drop 
in the oysters again and pour the whole 
quantity into a bowl. When lukewarm 
add one teacup of vinegar. Add slices 
of lemon when abo/it to serve. Good 
Housekeeping. 



TWELVE LESSONS 



IN - 



Scientific Cookery, 



BY 



MISS SUZY TRACY, 



GRADUATE OF MINNEAPOLIS COOKING SCHOOL 

AND CHAUJAUQIJA NEIV YOT^K COOKING SCHOOL. 



PRICE SEVENTY-FIVE CENTS. 



SAN FRANCISCO : 
H. S. CROCKER COMPANV, Printers and Stationers, 215, 217 and 219 Bush St. 



Entered according to Act of Congress 

iu the Office of the librarian, at Washington, by 

MISS SUZY TRACY, 

in the year 1897. 



PREFACE. 

In presenting these pages to the consideration of the 
public, I do so at the earnest solicitation of many of my 
lady patrons who have attended my lectures, but have not 
always been successful in taking correct notes. I therefore 
put into print this pamphlet of recipes where the formula 
is given, followed by the explicit directions of how to put 
together the ingredients ; with such notes and hints as may 
be of value to the experimenter. 

I sincerely hope the reader, especially the young 
housewife, may find the following pages of assistance in 
her household duties. 

The directions are not theories but are the fruits of 
practical experience. They are as free from technicalities 
as the nature of the subject seems to permit, and the 
author sincerely hopes that they will prove profitable to 
the reader. The arrangement of the subject-matter is 
designed to make the book a household reference book 
that can be depended upon. 

Respectfully, 

THE AUTHOR. 



INDEX 



Soups 5 

Cream Soups 8 

Fish 10 

Oysters 13 

Meats 14 

Poultry 19 

Frying 20 

Sauteing 24 

Salads 25 

Meat and Fish Sauces 30 

Vegetables 32 

Bread 36 

Eggs 42 

Pastry and Pies 43 

Puddings 45 

Pudding Sauces 48 

Invalid Cookery 49 

Cake , 50 

Delicate Desserts 56 

Sherbets and Ice Cream 59 

Beverages 62 



SOUPS. 



There are two principal ways of making soup stock. They are 
known as clear stock and mixed stock. To make a clear soup we 
always use fresh meat and bone; the second stock being made from 
bones and pieces of meat left from roasts and uncooked meats. 

As this latter is made from bits of meat and bone left over, no 
household should be without a stock-pot. Into the stock-pot should 
go only such meat and bone as is perfectly sweet, the smallest piece of 
tainted meat will destroy the soup. Stock can be cooked on the back 
part of the stove while other cooking is going on. It should be 
cooled quickly and not allowed to stand on the back part of the stove 
to cool slowly. Stock allowed to cool slowly becomes sour very 
readily. 

To prepare soup bone for clear stock remove the outer skin from 
the meat and bone, wipe carefully with a wet cloth. (Do not put into 
a pan of water and wash, as the water draws out the juices, which 
should be kept for the soup.) Have the butcher break the bone in 
many pieces. In buying a soup bone buy half meat and half bone. 

White stock is made from chicken and veal. 

Allow one quart of water to each pound of meat and bone. 

CLEAR BEEF STOCK. 

Buy a shin or shank of beef having half meat and half bone (about 
five pounds) ; remove the skin ; cut the bone in two-inch pieces and the 
meat into small pieces; add five quarts of cold water and two tea- 
spoonfuls of salt; let come to a boil slowly; place where it will keep just 
below 7 the boiling point; simmer slowly for six or eight hours, or until 
the meat falls from the bone; strain and cool quickly; when cold skim 
off the fat. For beef broth heat the plain beef stock, season with salt, 
pepper and a little minced parsley, and serve. This is the simplest 
form of beef soup. 

BEEF SOUP. 

Strain the soup stock, after removing the fat, into a kettle; do not 
allow the sediment to pass. To four quarts of stock add one small 
onion cut fine, one bay leaf, one stalk of celery, two sprigs of parsley, 
a small bouquet of sweet herbs, ten pepper corns, and six cloves; boil 
gently for fifteen minutes; strain through strainer cloth. Serve as a 
simple beef soup. 



TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 



MIXED STOCK. 

Cover the trimmings and tough pieces of bone left from roasts and 
broils with cold water; allow one teaspoonful of salt for each gallon of 
water; cook slowly for about four hours; then add half an onion, six 
cloves, six pepper corns, two sage leaves, two sprigs of thyme, one bay 
leaf, two sprigs of summer savory; simmer for two hours longer; strain 
and cool quickly. This stock can be used in sauces or served as a 
simple soup, garnished with vegetables or some well-cooked tapioca. 

CHICKEN STOCK. 

Select a hen fowl (not as strong flavored as a rooster); singe and 
scrub; prepare as for roasting, omitting the stuffing; place m a kettle 
and cover with boiling water; cook slowly until the fowl is tender; re- 
move from broth, cooling the broth quickly; when cold, remove the 
fat. The chicken can be used for salad, creamed chicken, hash or cold 
boiled chicken. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

To one quart of chicken stock add four tablespoonfuls of boiled 
rice and two teaspoonfuls of minced parsley; heat boiling hot; season 
with salt and pepper, and serve. 

BOUILLON. 

Five pounds of beef, taken from One tablespoonful of minced 

the round, onion, 

Two and one-half quarts of cold One sprig of parsley, 

water, One small stalk of celery. 

One level teaspoonful of salt, Four cloves and four pepper corns. 
One carrot, 

Cut the meat into small pieces, cover with the cold water and add 
the salt ; let come to the boiling point slowly ; simmer from eight to ten 
hours; add the seasoning and cook one-half hour longer; strain and 
cool quickly; next morning remove the fat; heat scalding hot; season 
with salt and pepper, and serve. In making bouillon all the seasoning 
except salt and pepper may be omitted if preferred. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Two quarts of beef stock, Two pounds of cabbage. 

One carrot, One-fourth cupful of barley, 

One-half medium-sized yellow One onion, 

turnip, Two potatoes. 

Two stalks of celery, Salt and pepper. 

Cook the barley in one quart of water for two hours ; add the stock 
and all the vegetables, cut fine, except the potatoes : boil gently for an 
hour, or until the vegetables are tender, then add the potatoes and cook 
fifteen minutes ; season with salt and pepper. 



SOUPS. 



CONSOMME. 



of chicken or veal 



Two tablespoonfuls of minced 

onion, 
Two cupfuls of carrots, parsnips 

and yellow turnip, cut fine, 
One-half bay leaf, 
Four pepper corns, 
One small stalk of celery, 
Rind and juice of half a lemon. 



One quart 

stock, 

One quart of beef stock, 
Four cloves, 
One inch piece each of mace and 

cinnamon, 
Two eggs, 
One sprig of parsley, 

Brown the vegetables in bacon fat, taking care not to burn them; 
add them and the spices to the stock and cook slowly one and one-half 
hours; strain and remove the fat; break the whites and shells of the 
eggs into one cupful of cold water and mix thoroughly; add to the soup 
and let come to the boiling point; add lemon, salt and pepper; cook 
slowly twenty minutes; strain through strainer cloth which has been 
wet in cold water; reheat the soup; garnish each plate with a thin slice 
of lemon and three allspice berries ; serve very hot. 



VERMICELLI SOUP. 



One cupful of vermicelli, 
One-half saltspoonful of pepper. 



Two quarts of beef stock, 
One teaspoonful of salt, 
Dash of cayenne pepper, 

Cook the vermicelli in boiling water about fifteen minutes; drain; 
heat the stock boiling hot; season with salt and pepper; add the vermi- 
celli, and serve. The vermicelli may be broken or left whole, accord- 
ing to fancy. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

One quart of stock, Two sticks of macaroni, 

One teaspoonful of salt, One-half saltspoonful of pepper. 

Break the macaroni into small pieces; drop into boiling salted 
water and cook rapidly until the macaroni is tender; drain and allow 
the cold water to run over it; cut into one-fourth-inch pieces; heat the 
stock boiling hot; season with pepper and salt; add the macaroni, and 
serve. 



MULLIGATA.WNEY. 



One-half teaspoonful of pepper, 

Veal, three pounds, 

One small carrot, 

Four tablespoonfuls of butter, 

Two teaspoonfuls of salt, 

Five quarts of water. 



Fowl, three pounds, 
Two large onions, 
Three stalks of celery, 
One tablespoonful of curry pow- 
der, 
Five tablespoonfuls of flour, 

Cut the veal into small pieces; dress the fowl as for roasting; put 
into the soup kettle; add the water; cover and let come to the boiling 
point: simmer for four hours, or until the fowl is tender; remove the 
fowl from the kettle; put butter into the saucepan; cut vegetables very 
fine; cook in the butter fifteen minutes; skim the vegetables out of the 



TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 



butter and add them to the soup; to the butter add the flour and cook 
until brown; then add the curry powder; add the whole to the soup, 
and cook for two hours; season with salt and pepper, then strain and 
skim; remove skin and bone from the chicken; cut into small pieces; 
return the soup to the soup kettle after straining; add the chicken, and 
simmer gently for thirty minutes ; serve with boiled rice. 

NOTE. To skim soup when you cannot allow it to stand until cold. 
Pour the soup into a bowl just large enough to hold it; set the bowl on 
a plate or in another vessel and fill until it runs over; let stand two 
or three minutes, then slowly pour a little cold water in at one side, and 
the fat will run over into the plate. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One quart can of tomatoes, One tablespoonful of minced pars- 
One tablespoonful of sugar, ley, 

Four cloves. One pint of water, 

One tablespoonful of butter, One pint of soup stock or water, . 

One tablespoonful of minced Four pepper corns, 

onion, Two teaspoonfuls of salt. 
One tablespoonful of cornstarch. 

To the tomatoes add the water, sugar, cloves, and pepper corn; 
stew slowly until the tomatoes are tender; press through a strainer; 
remove only the seeds and skin. To the stewed and strained tomatoes 
add the soup stock or water. Melt the butter in a small pan, add the 
onion and parsley and cook until lightly browned, then add the corn- 
starch and cook together; slowly add one cupful of the soup, stirring 
until it forms a smooth sauce; add to the soup and cook fifteen min- 
utes; season with salt and pepper, strain, and serve with croutons. 

CROUTONS. 

Butter and cut into one-half-inch dice a slice of stale bread one-half 
inch in thickness ; toast until nicely browned ; serve with soup. 



Cream 



CREAM OF ASPARAGUS. 

From a bunch of asparagus break off the tough ends, using the 
tops and tender parts for stewing; put the tough portions into two 
quarts of water and simmer gently until the water is well flavored with 
the asparagus ; make a cream sauce of two tablespoonfuls of butter, two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, two cupfuls of rich milk and one level teaspoon- 
ful of salt; put the butter into a saucepan and melt; add the flour and 
cook together, being careful not to allow it to brown ; add the milk 
cold, stirring constantly until it thickens; then add the water, flavored 
with the asparagus; season with salt and pepper, and serve. 



CPE AM SOUPS. 



CREAM OF CELERY. 

Make a celery broth by stewing some tough bits of celery in water 
until the water is nicely flavored; cook together one tablespoonful of 
butter and two tablespoonfuls of flour; then add two cupfuls of celery 
broth, cold; stir until it thickens; add another cupful of the broth and a 
cupful of rich milk; heat to the boiling point; season with salt and 
pepper, and serve. 

CUE AM OF SALSIFY. 

Cook together one tablespoonful of butter and one of flour ; add two 
cupfuls of salsify broth, made by stewing the salsify in water until the 
water is well flavored; stir constantly until it makes a smooth sauce: 
add two more cupfuls of the broth and simmer five minutes; then add 
one cupful of milk and half a cupful of cream; heat boiling hot; season 
to taste, and serve. 

CREAM OF CHICKEN. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, Two tablespoonfuls of flour, 

One cupful of milk, One cupful of cream. 

Three cupfuls of chicken broth, Salt, pepper and celery salt. 

Cook together the butter and flour; add chicken broth, cold, stirring 
constantly until it thickens; add milk and cream; season to taste; heat 
boiling hot, and serve. 

CUE AM OF TOMATO, OR MOCK BISQUE. 

One quart can of tomatoes. One pint of stewed and strained 
Four cloves, tomatoes, 

One tablespoonful of sugar. One pint of water, 

One tablespoonful of butter, Four pepper corns, 

One and one-half cupfuls of rich A pinch of soda, 

milk, One tablespoonful of flour. 

Stew the tomatoes, water, cloves, pepper corns, sugar and 
soda together until the tomatoes are tender; then strain, removing 
the skin and seeds; cook the butter and flour together; then add the 
milk cold, stirring constantly until it form a smooth sauce; add one 
pint of the stewed and strained tomatoes; season with pepper, salt and 
cayenne ; heat scalding hot, and serve immediately ; if allowed to stand 
the soup will curdle; should it curdle beat with a Dover egg-beater 
until smooth. 

1TREE OF PEA. 

One tablespoonful of butter, Two cupfuls of white stock 

One and one-half cupfuls of veal or chicken, 

water, Two tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Two cupfuls of green peas, 

Cook the peas in the water until tender; drain and rub through a 
puree sieve: cook together the butter and flour: add the stock and stir 



10 TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 



until thickened; add the peas and the water in which they have been 
cooked; simmer five minutes; season with salt and pepper, and serve. 

NOTE. To make a puree of any vegetable, cook the vegetable until 
very tender; rub through a puree sieve, and use to thicken the soup. 
Always use a small quantity of cornstarch, arrow root or flour in puree 
to keep the vegetable from settling and to make the soup smooth. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Two dozen clams, Six potatoes, 

One-fourth pound of salt pork, One onion, 

One tablespoonful of butter, One teaspoonful of salt, 

One quart of milk, Six crackers. 
One-half teaspoonful of pepper, 

Buy the clams in the shell; scrub the shell until clean; put clams into 
a pan with one cupful of water and cook until the top ones open ; take 
the clams from the shell and cut off the neck with a pair of scissors; 
chop the necks fine, leaving the soft part whole; save the clam broth; 
Pare and cut the potatoes into thin slices and soak in cold water one 
hour; cut the pork in small pieces and fry in a pan; add the onion, 
chopped fine, and cook until lightly browned; put the sliced potatoes 
into a kettle; strain the pork fat into it and add enough boiling water 
to cover the potatoes; cook until the potatoes are tender, or about 
ten minutes; add the clam broth and the same amount of water; add 
salt and pepper and clams, and lastly add the hot milk and butter; put 
the crackers into the tureen and pour in the chowder; serve very hot. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Remove the bones from a fresh white fish ; cut the fish into two-inch 
pieces; cover the bones with water and let simmer for fifteen minutes; 
proceed the same as for clam chowder, using the water in which the 
bones have been boiled instead of the clam juice. 



Fish should be perfectly fresh and thoroughly cooked. In buy- 
ing, select only those which have firm flesh, clear eyes and the skin 
and scales bright. If the fish looks limp it is not fit to use. It should 
be washed quickly, and not allowed to stand in the water. A little 
salt in the water keeps the flesh firm longer. 

Clean the fish as soon as possible, washing it in salt and water; 
remove the scales by scraping with a small knife, beginning at the tail 
and working towards the head; split it down the middle and remove 
the entrails. 



FISH. 11 

To skin a fish, cut a thin strip down the backbone, slip the knife 
under the skin at the lower part and slip it up through the bony part 
of the gills; hold the bony part and pull the skin off towards the tail; 
remove it from the other side in the same way. 

TO BONE A FISH. 

Clean the fish ; then take a sharp boning knife, and, beginning at the 
tail, slip the knife between the bone and the flesh close to the bone; 
scrape away the flesh carefully; scrape the flesh away from the second 
set of bones and slip the knife under; treat the other side in the same 
way, then remove the bone, cutting away the dorsal fin. 

BROILED FISH. 

Clean and bone the fish ; grease the broiler with a piece of salt pork 
to keep the fish from sticking; put fish between the broiler and broil 
over the coals until cooked ; the thickness of the fish will determine the 
time. 

TO BROIL IN THE OVEN. 

Clean and bone the fish ; grease the fish sheet with salt pork (a fish 
sheet is a piece'of sheet iron or tin); place the fish, skin down, upon the 
sheet; season it with pepper and salt and brush with melted butter; 
then dust lightly with flour; place on the upper grate of a very hot oven 
and cook from twenty to thirty minutes, according to the thickness of 
the fish; remove from the sheet and put on a hot platter; spread with 
Maitre d' Hotel sauce, and serve. 

BOILED FISH. 

The general rule for boiled fish is to wash in cold water and wipe 
dry; pin the fish in a piece of strong white cotton cloth to keep it from 
breaking; cover with boiling water, to which one teaspoonful of salt 
has been added, and cook gently. Rapid boiling will break the fish. 
A fish weighing from four to six pounds will require thirty minutes; 
allow about three minutes longer for each additional pound. For 
boiled white fish a teaspoonful of lemon juice may be added to the 
water. When the fish is cooked remove from the kettle; drain well; 
serve on a hot platter garnished with sprigs of parsley. Serve boiled 
fish with Hollandaise sauce, drawn butter or egg sauce. 

BAKED FISH. 

Scrape and wash the fish clean; for a fish weighing from four to six 
pounds take three cupfuls of stale bread crumbs, moisten them with 
three tablespoonfuls of melted butter; add one teaspoonful of salt, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful of minced parsley and 
one egg beaten light; rub the fish with salt and pepper; put the stuffing 



12 TWB.U'E LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 

into the body of the fish and fasten together with skewers ; butter the fish 
sheet and place the fish upon it, putting it into a baking pan; dredge 
the fish with pepper, salt and flour; cover the bottom of the pan with 
hot water; bake in a hot oven about one hour, basting every fifteen 
minutes; when cooked, remove the sheet from the pan and slip the fish 
off carefully into a hot platter; pour around it tomato or Hollandaise 
sauce ; garnish with lemon points and sprigs of parsley. 

FRIED FISH. 

Fish to be fried should be cleaned, washed and dried; rub with salt 
and pepper; roll in flour and cornmeal (half of each); then dip in 
beaten egg and water (one tablespoonful of water to each egg), and roll 
in dry bread crumbs; fry in very hot fat; serve very hot, with Beurre 
Noir poured over it, and garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

Any kind of fish can be fried in the same way, cutting large fish into 
serving pieces. 

NOTE. For temperature of fat see article "Fat for Frying." 

SALT CODFISH. 

Wash and soak in cold water over night; change the water and cook 
slowly until it comes to the boiling point; set back where it will not 
boil, but keep hot for about half an hour; pick over and remove all skin 
and bones ; it is then ready to be made into different dishes. 

CREAMED CODFISH. 

One tablespoonful of butter, One tablespoonful of flour. 

One and one-half cupfuls of milk, One-fourth teaspoonful of pepper. 
Two cupfuls of cooked codfish, 

Cook the butter and flour together; add the milk cold, stir constantly 
until thickened; add the fish and pepper; simmer five minutes; serve 
on toast. 

NOTE. Any cold white fish may be used in place of cod. The 
addition of one teaspoonful of minced parsley gives variety. 

FISH BALLS. 

One cupful of cold cooked fish, Two cupfuls of mashed potatoes, 
One egg, Two tablespoonfuls of milk, 

Two tablespoonfuls of melted Pepper and salt. 

butter, 

Mix the fish and potato together; moisten with butter, milk and egg: 
season to taste ; shape into balls and cook in hot fat three minutes. 

NOTE. If cold mashed potato is used heat the potato and add milk 
enough to moisten it. 

ESCALLOPED FISH. 

One cupful of cold cooked fish, One tablespoonful of butter, 

One tablespoonful of flour, One cupful of milk, 

One-half cupful of stale bread Pepper and salt. 
. crumbs. 



OYSTERS. 13 

Cook butter and flour together; add milk cold and stir until it thick- 
ens; add one-half teaspoonful of salt and one-fourth teaspoonful of 
pepper. Butter baking dish; put a layer of fish in the bottom, then a 
layer of white sauce, another layer of fish and another layer of white 
sauce; cover the top with the bread crumbs moistened with melted 
butter; bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes, or until the 
crumbs are nicelv browned. 



Oysters served on the half shell should be opened just before serving. 
Six, on a large plate with one-half of a lime in the center, should be 
served to each person. 

PANNED OYSTEBS. 

One tablespoonful of butter, Two dozen of oysters, 

One-fourth teaspoonful of salt, Half a saltspoonful of pepper. 

Melt the butter in an omelet pan or chafing dish; add the salt and 
pepper and then the oysters; cook until the edges curl and the oysters 
become plump; serve on toast. 

OYSTER STEW. 

Two dozen large oysters, or Pepper and salt, 

three dozen small ones, One tablespoonful of butter. 

One quart of milk, 

Finger the oysters carefully and remove any pieces of shell; scald 
the milk in double boiler; cook the oysters in their own liquor until 
the edges curl; then add the milk and butter; season to taste; serve 
with crackers. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTEBS. 

Moisten stale bread crumbs with melted butter, and season with salt 
and pepper; butter the baking dish; put a layer of bread crumbs in the 
bottom and then a layer of oysters, another layer of crumbs and 
another layer of oysters ; cover the whole with the crumbs and bake in 
a moderate oven about twenty minutes, or until the crumbs are nicely 
browned. 

NOTE. For escalloping oysters a shallow dish or platter should be 
used, allowing only two layers of oysters to each dish. If more are 
used the upper and under layers will be overcooked while the inner 
ones may be undercooked. 



14 TU'ELl'E LESSONS IX SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 



BOILING. 

All fresh meats to be boiled should be plunged into boiling water 
and allowed to boil rapidly for ten or fifteen minutes, to coagulate 
the albumen and thus close the pores, keeping in the juices of the 
meat. After the meat has boiled for ten minutes place it where it will 
just simmer, until tender. Meat that boils rapidly will be stringy. 

HAM. 

Scrub the ham with a vegetable brush until perfectly clean; then 
place it in a large kettle with cold water and let it come to the boiling- 
point; simmer gently until tender it requires about twenty minutes to 
the pound; let stand in the water until cold, then remove the skin; roll 
in fine bread crumbs, stick the fat parts with whole cloves and bake in 
a moderate oven about half an hour. 

TONGUE. 

Cook slowly in boiling water until tender about five or six hours 
then plunge into cold water and peel off the skin. For salt tongue, 
soak over night and cover with cold water instead of boiling water 
when putting on to cook. 

CORNED BEEF. 

Wash and cover with cold water; simmer slowly five or six hours, 
or until tender; let stand in the water in which it was boiled if it is to be 
served cold. To press corned beef, remove the bones after it is cooked 
and put it under a heavy weight. 

NEW ENGLAND DINNER. 

Six pounds of corned beef, One small white turnip, 

One pound of salt pork, One small yellow turnip, 

Two or three beets, Six or eight medium-sized pota- 
Two carrots, toes of uniform size. 

\Yash and soak the corned beef and pork in cold water; put it on to 
boil in fresh cold water; simmer until it is tender; remove from the 
kettle and skim the liquor; wash and pare the turnips and carrots and 
cut into inch slices; cut the cabbage into quarters and wash carefully; 
put the carrots, turnips and cabbage into the boiling liquor and cook 
until tender; pare and add the potatoes half an hour before 
serving time; cook the beets in a separate kettle; remove the skin, cut 
in half-inch slices; when the vegetables are cooked, drain; put the beef 
and pork in the center of a large platter; serve the carrots, potatoes and 



ME A TSSTE WING. \ 5 



turnips around the edge, with the cabbage and beets in separate dishes ; 
the beets can be cooked the day before and covered with vinegar, serv- 
ing them as pickled beets; always cook the beets in a separate kettle; 
the corned beef may be cooked the day before and pressed, saving the 
liquor for cooking the vegetables. 

^ STEWING j* 
CHICKEN STEW. 

Singe and cut the chicken, at the joints, into serving pieces; cover 
with boiling water; simmer until tender; add one teaspoonful of salt 
an'd half a saltspoonful of pepper; after removing all the large bones 
put the chicken, on toast, on a large platter; cook together one table- 
spoonful of butter and two tablespoonfuls of flour; add one and one- 
half cupfuls of cold milk and stir until smooth; add the chicken broth 
gradually; season with peooer and salt and celery salt; pour the hot 
sauce over the chicken and toast, and serve. If you wish to serve 
dumplings with the chicken stew, ten minutes before the chicken is 
cooked let the liquid boil up, then put in the dumplings. When you 
serve dumplings omit the toast. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 

Cut the chicken as for stew; brown in hot butter before stewing; 
make a brown gravy by browning the butter before adding the gravy; 
serve on toast 



VEAL STEW. 

Cut the veal into small pieces; cover with boiling water; add one-half 
teaspoonful of salt for each quart of water; simmer until it'is tender; 
add four or six potatoes, cut in thick slices; cook together one table- 
spoonful of butter and two of flour; add one cupful of cold milk; stir 
until smooth; add the veal broth gradually; remove bones from veal 
and simmer all together for five minutes, then serve. 

Beef and mutton stew are made in the same way. 

For stewing, the cheapest and toughest meat is used; by long, slow 
cooking it becomes tender. 

CUKKY OF BABBIT. 

Cut the rabbit into serving pieces; brown in hot butter; remove from 
the butter and put into a stew kettle; add one large onion, cut into 
slices; cook one tablespoonful of flour and one of curry powder in the 
butter in which the rabbit was browned; add one cupful of water or 
stock and stir until thickened; then add one cupful of strained toma- 
toes, one teaspoonful of sugar, and pepper and salt to taste; pour this 
over the rabbit and stew until tender; add a cupful of milk; heat boiling 
hot; serve with boiled rice. 



Hi 'nVELVE LESSORS IX SCIE\'TIJ : 1C COOKERY. 



<* BROILING j* 

Broiling is the most perfect way of cooking meat and fish. There 
are three ways of broiling, what is known as broiling proper, pan 
broiling and oven broiling. 

Broiling proper is to broil directly over the coals; the fire must be 
hot, clear and free from smoke. For meat it must be hotter than for 
fish. Pan broiling is cooking upon a smoking hot griddle. Oven 
broiling is cooking in a very hot oven. The most delicious results are 
obtained by broiling steaks, chops, young chickens, squabs, etc., 
directly over the glowing coals. Charcoal is best for broiling, but hard 
wood or hard or soft coal may be used, provided it is free from smoke. 
The point to be remembered in broiling is to have the fire, griddle or 
oven hot enough to instantly sear the outer surface of the meat. 

The best cuts of steak make the most delicious broils, tenderness 
being one of the essential qualities. It must be remembered, however, 
that a second-class cut of steak taken from a first-class bullock will 
make a much better broil than a first-class cut taken from a second- 
class bullock. When selecting beef see that it has a thick rim of fat, 
that the lean is well marbled with fat and is of a bright red color after 
being exposed to the air for a short time. 

STEAKS. 

Have steak cut thick two inches is the proper thickness fo"r a steak ; 
it should never be cut less than one inch. Trim off all the suet; put 
between a double broiler and place it'as close to the coals as possible; 
allow it to cook for about a minute, or until the under side is well 
seared, then turn and sear the other side; remove a little distance from 
the coals and cook from fifteen to twenty minutes, turning constantly. 
A steak that is broiled perfectly should be puffed out in the center and 
should be of a delicate pink color throughout. Serve immediately on 
a warm platter ; garnish with sprigs of parsley or watercress. 

PAN BROILING. 

To pan broil a steak, have the griddle smoking hot; do not put fat 
of any kind on the griddle; place the steak on the griddle and press 
close; let it cook one minute; then, with a knife, loosen from the griddle 
and turn; sear the other side; reduce the heat slightly and cook from 
fifteen to twenty minutes, turning very frequently; do not prick the 
steak with a fork or the juice will escape. The steak can be easily 
turned with two knives by slipping one under the steak and assisting 
to turn with the other. Broiled steak is served as soon as taken from 
the fire, seasoned with pepper and salt. Maitre d' Hotel sauce is some- 
times served with broiled steak. 



ME A TS BROIL ING. 17 



TIME FOR BROILING STEAKS. 

Steak two inches in thickness requires from fifteen to twenty min- 
utes, one and one-half inches from twelve to fifteen minutes and one 
inch from eight to ten minutes. 

LAMB AND MUTTON CHOPS. 

Remove the outer skin and all the suet from the chops; broil over 
the coals or on a hot griddle; serve with tomato sauce and season with 
salt and pepper; garnish with parsley. 

NOTE. Before cooking lamb or mutton always remove the skin. 
It is in the skin that the disagreeable flavor exists. 

^ ROASTING j 

Roasting and baking are synonymous terms. We speak of roasting 
meats and baking bread, yet we use the same oven for both. Roasting 
formerly meant to place the meat on a spit before the open fire, turn 
it frequently and baste constantly to keep from burning. Roasting 
to-day means to bake in a hot oven. 

ROAST BEEF. 

There are seven prime ribs in a bullock. Any of them will make a 
first-class roast of beef. Do not have the ribs removed, but have them 
cut in two-inch pieces up to the thick muscle; cut these pieces of bone 
off, to be braised and served as short ribs of beef; place the cut surface 
of the roast on a smoking hot griddle and press closely; let cook for 
two or three minutes, or until it is nicely seared; turn and sear the 
other side; set the roast, resting upon the edges of the ribs, on a rack in 
a dripping pan; put into an oven hot enough to bake bread, and let 
cook; do not season the meat and do not put water in the pan; when 
the oven is at the proper temperature you will hear a gentle sputtering 
when the oven door is opened if smoke issues from the oven it is too 
hot if you do not hear a gentle sputtering increase the temperature. 
The time required for roasting depends upon the thickness of the roast; 
fifteen minutes is allowed for each inch in thickness; a roast four inches 
in thickness will cook rare in one hour; measure across the thickest 
part of a roast. A rump roast is seared in the same way and placed 
upon a rack in a hot oven; allow fifteen minutes to the pound. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Two-thirds of a cupful of flour, One pint of milk, 
Three eggs, One teaspoonful of salt. 

Sift the flour and measure; add the salt; separate the eggs and add 
the yolks, unbeaten, to the flour; add a little of the milk and mix to a 
smooth paste; add the rest of the milk gradually; beat whites of the 



18 TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 

eggs to a stiff froth and stir into the batter; pour into the roasting pan 
forty-five minutes before the roast is cooked; serve hot with the roast 
of beef; if the roast is very fat pour some of the fat from the pan before 
putting in the pudding. 

BRAISED BEEF OR POT ROAST. 

Six or eight pounds of chuck roast; trim and rub with pepper and 
salt; cut a large onion into dice and brown in salt pork fat; put the 
roast into a braising pan; pour over it one quart of boiling water; add 
the onion; cover closely and cook in a moderate oven about four hours, 
turning after two hours, and add more water as it evaporates, so as to 
have three cups of gravy; when tender take up the meat; skim off the 
fat from the gravy and thicken with a tablespoonful of flour wet in a 
little cold water and strained into the gravy; season with pepper and 
salt and a little lemon juice. 

VEAL HEART. 

Remove the tough membranes and soak in cold water and salt one 
hour; wipe and stuff with stale bread crumbs seasoned with salt and 
pepper and moistened with melted butter; rub the heart with salt, 
pepper and dredge with flour ; fry brown in a pan with a little fat salt 
pork ; place in braising kettle ; add one pint of water, one teaspoonful of 
minced onion, sprig of parsley, three cloves, three pepper corns, one 
small carrot cut fine ; cover tightly and cook two hours in a moderately 
hot oven ; turn three or four times while baking. 

ROAST LAMB OR MUTTON. 

Remove the skin from a leg of lamb or mutton ; sear the cut surfaces 
on a hot griddle; place on a rack in a roasting pan in a hot oven. A 
leg of lamb will roast in one hour and a quarter, while it requires one 
hour and three-quarters to roast a medium-sized leg of mutton. 

ROAST VEAL. 

Veal being a dry meat, requires basting to keep it moist and to 
enrichen it; rub the veal with sugar, salt and pepper, using one-half as 
much sugar as salt; place upon rack in roasting pan and let cook in a 
hot oven until nicely browned, then baste with a thin gravy made from 
one tablespoonful of butter, one of flour and two cupfuls of stock or 
water; season with pepper and salt; baste every fifteen minutes; veal 
requires longer cooking than either beef or mutton ; a five-pound roast 
will cook in two and one-half hours. 

PORK. 

Fresh pork is seasoned with pepper, salt and sugar. Roast and 
baste the same as veal. 



POULTRY. 19 



TO DRAW POULTRY. 

All poultry should be dressed as soon as killed; the feathers come out 
more easily while the fowl is warm; strip them off towards the head; 
remove the pinfeathers with a knife; singe the hairs by holding it over 
the gas jet or a piece of lighted paper; cut off the head; turn the skin 
back and cut off the neck close to the body ; remove the windpipe and 
crop; to remove the feet, cut the skin just below the leg joint; break 
the joint; with a skewer pull out the tendons; cut away the oil bag in 
the tail; make an incision under the side bone near the tail large 
enough to insert two fingers ; slip the ringers around the entrails, sepa- 
rating the membrane; when everything is loosened, get the ringers 
around the heart and pull out the entrails; then take out the lungs 
and kidneys; when everything is removed hold the fowl under the 
faucet and rinse well, then wipe dry. 

TO CLEAN GIBLETS. 

Remove the outside sack from the heart; cut open and press out the 
clot of blood ; cut off the gall bladder from the liver, being careful not 
to break it, and cut away any discolored part of the liver; open the 
thick part of the gizzard and take out the inner sack without breaking; 
wash giblets and put into cold water; simmer until tender; cook the 
neck with the giblets. 

TO TRUSS POULTRY. 

Draw the thighs up close to the body and pass a skewer through the 
thigh and into the body and out through the other thigh; pass another 
skewer through the wings, fastening them close to the body; fold the 
skin at the neck over and pin it to the back with a skewer; cross the 
legs over the tail and tie with a stout twine, leaving two long ends; 
pass the twine around the tail, bring it up, crossing in front and passing 
around the skewer in the thighs; cross in the back and fasten around 
the skewer through the wings, and tie firmly. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Singe, draw, wash and wipe; stuff the body and neck with stale bread 
crumbs moistened with melted butter and seasoned with pepper, salt 
and celery salt; truss and rub with butter; lay the turkey, breast down, 
on the rack in the roasting pan; put into a hot oven and cook until 
the back of the turkey is nicely browned, then turn it over and brown 
breast; pour one pint of water into the pan after the turkey is browned; 
baste every fifteen minutes, or whenever the skin becomes very dry; 



20 TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 



allow twenty-five minutes to the pound for roasting; if the turkey 
browns too rapidly cover the breast with a heavy paper well buttered. 
Oysters or chopped celery may be added to the stuffing if desired. 

KOAST CHICKEN. 

Prepare the same as roast turkey; allow twenty minutes to the pound 
for roasting. 



Trainer 



Frying is cooking in hot fat deep enough to entirely cover the 
articles to be cooked. When food is properly fried the fat is hot 
enough to instantly sear the outer surface and thus prevent it soaking 
into the food. All food to be fried should be thoroughly dried; if 
water should drop into the hot fat it would cause the fat to boil over, 
and there is danger of it taking fire and causing great trouble. Food 
that does not contain sufficient albumen to form a coating on the out- 
side as soon as immersed into the hot fat should be rolled in crumbs, 
then in egg and again in crumbs to form a grease-proof covering. A 
frying basket, or a wire basket with a long handle, is very convenient 
for frying purposes. In many cook books we read, "heat the fat 
smoking hot." That depends entirely upon the kind of fat you are 
using; lard will smoke at a much lower temperature than oil. When 
fat smokes it loses some of its browning properties; never let fat heat 
without putting a small piece of raw potato into it. As soon as the 
potato begins to brown drop in a fresh piece of potato; if it browns in 
one minute the fat is hot enough to fry potatoes and dough mixtures. 
For such food as we roll in bread crumbs and egg the fat should be 
hot enough to brown a bit of bread in forty seconds. 

The best fat for frying purposes is a mixture of suet and oil, as both 
these fats can be heated to a much higher temperature without smok- 
ing than lard, and are more healthful. Olive oil is the purest fat for 
frying, but is too expensive for general use. 

For frying the same fat can be used several times if properly cared 
for. The most delicate croquettes can be fried in the same fat with 
fish and not be marred in flavor. When frying several different kinds 
of food at the same time, begin with potatoes, then dough mixtures 
and lastly articles rolled in crumbs. 

When finished with the fat drop three or four slices of raw potato 
into it; cool slightly, and strain through a fine strainer or a strainer 
cloth. 



FRYING. 21 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

Pare the potatoes and cut into strips one-half inch in thickness; let 
stand in cold water one hour; heat the fat hot. enough to brown a thin 
slice of potato in one minute; wipe the potatoes; put into the frying 
basket and lower into the hot fat; do not 'put a large quantity of 
potatoes in at one time, as they will lower the temperature of the fat 
and the potatoes will be soggy and greasy. When the potatoes are 
nicely browned lift from the fat and shake free from grease; turn onto 
a piece of cheese cloth to absorb the fat; dust lightly with salt, and 
serve immediately. French fried potatoes should be crisp and mealy. 
If they stand they become soggy. 

SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Pare the potatoes and slice very thin; let stand in cold water two or 
three hours; wipe dry; fry in fat hot enough to brown in one minute: 
when nicely browned remove the basket and shake well; turn chips 
onto cheese cloth or soft paper; dust well with salt. 

LAMB CHOPS BREADED. 

Trim the chops and remove the skin; season with salt and pepper; 
roll in fine bread crumbs; dip in beaten egg and water; add table- 
spoonful of water to each egg, and roll in bread crumbs ; fry in hot fat. 
For a chop one inch in thickness it will require six minutes to cook 
rare and from eight to ten to cook well done. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Cut the chicken into ten pieces; season with pepper and salt; roll 
in fine bread crumbs; dip in beaten egg and water; roll in crumbs, and 
fry in fat hot enough to brown a piece of bread in one minute. A 
young chicken will cook in ten minutes. Serve with sauce tartare or 
cream sauce; garnish the dish with sprigs of parsley. 

NOTE. For fried fish see article on Fish. 

CROQUETTES. 

In making croquettes the material must be chopped fine, well mixed, 
and seasoned delicately. The shaping of croquettes can be readily 
acquired by a little practice and care. They are formed into cone, ball 
and cylindrical shapes. 

To Shape. Take a tablespoonful of the mixture ; roll gently between 
the hands into a ball; have a board well sprinkled with fine dry bread 
crumbs and roll the croquette very gently on this into shape; dip into 
beaten egg, to which one tablespoonful of water has been added ; water 
added to the egg makes a more elastic coating than egg alone; after 
dipping the croquette into the egg roll again in the bread crumbs and 
then fry in fat hot enough to brown a piece of bread in forty seconds; 
cook until nicely browned it will require about two minutes; take up 
and lay on cheese cloth or soft brown paper. 



22 TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

One pint of cooked chicken, One teaspoonful of minced parsley, 

chopped fine, Pepper and salt to taste. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, One teaspoonful of lemon juice, 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour, One teaspoonful of minced onion. 
One cupful of cream, 

Cook together the butter and flour; add the cream, and stir con- 
stantly until it thickens; season the chicken with pepper, salt, onion, 
lemon juice and parsley; add to the white sauce and mix thoroughly; 
spread on a buttered plate and set away to cool; when cold shape into 
croquettes; roll in bread crumbs, dip in egg, and roll again in crumbs, 
and fry in hot fat; drain on cheese cloth, and serve garnished with 
lemon points and sprigs of parsley. 

SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES. 

Two sweetbreads, One cup of cream. 

One tablespoonful of butter, One teaspoonful of lemon juice, 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour, Pepper and salt to taste. 

Cover the sweetbreads with cold water and salt; let stand two or 
three hours; cover with boiling water; add lemon juice and cook until 
tender; remove the tubes and membranes, and, with a silver fork, 
separate into small pieces; cook together the butter and flour; add the 
cream or rich milk and cook until thickened; add the sweetbreads; 
season to taste; spread on a buttered plate and set aside to cool; shape 
into croquettes; roll in fine bread crumbs; dip in egg and roll in crumbs 
again; fry in hot fat until nicely browned. 

ROYAL CROQUETTES. 

Royal croquettes are made by using half chicken and half sweet- 
breads. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Six medium-sized potatoes, Whites of two eggs, 

One tablespoonful of butter, One tablespoonful of minced 

Salt and pepper to taste, parsley. 

Two-thirds of a cupful of milk, 

Pare, boil and mash potatoes; add the butter, milk and seasonings; 
let cool slightly, then shape ; roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

One and one-half cupfuls of Half a teaspoonful of salt, 

boiled rice, Two eggs, 

Three-fourths of a cupful of One tablespoonful of sugar, 

milk, One tablespoonful of butter. 

Cover the rice with the milk; add the sugar, butter and salt; let boil 
three minutes; add the eggs, well beaten, and cook one minute; then 
take off and cool; when cold, shape, roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs; 
fry, and serve very hot. 



FR YING. 23 

OTHER CROQUETTES. 

Mutton, veal, lamb, beef or any kind of cooked meat or fish may be 
substituted in place of chicken, and prepared in the same way; or, take 
one cupful of finely chopped meat and add to it one-half cupful of stale 
bread crumbs; moisten with one-third cupful of cream and the white 
of one egg; season with pepper, salt and a little onion juice; drop by 
spoonful into hot fat; fry until nicely browned. 

FRITTER BATTER. 

One cupful of flour, One saltspoonful of salt, 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar, One egg, 

One teaspoonful of baking pow- One-third of a cupful of milk, 
der, 

Mix the flour, sugar, salt and baking powder together; add the egg, 
beaten light, and the milk; beat until light and smooth; drop by spoon- 
ful into very hot fat; sprinkle with sugar, and serve with maple syrup 
or lemon sauce. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Pare and core two large tart apples; cut into slices about one-third 
of an inch in thickness; drop into the fritter batter and fry about five 
or six minutes in very hot deep fat; serve hot with lemon sauce. 

FRUIT FRITTERS. 

Bananas, oranges, pineapple, peaches, etc., are used for fritters; cut 
into small pieces or slices and add to the fritter batter; fry in deep fat 
heated very hot. 

CHICKEN FRITTERS. 

Cut cold boiled or roast chicken into small pieces; season with salt, 
pepper and a tablespoonful of lemon juice for each pint of chicken; 
make a batter as for "Batter Fritters," omitting the sugar; stir the 
chicken into the batter; drop by spoonful into very hot fat; drain and 
serve immediately; any tender meat may be substituted for chicken. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Prepare the fritter batter, omitting the sugar; for large oysters drain 
and dip into the batter, and fry in very hot fat; if the oysters are 
small drain and add one cupful of oysters to one cupful of batter; drop 
by spoonfuls in hot fat and fry until nicely browned; drain on cheese 
cloth or soft paper, and serve hot. 

FRIED MUSH. 

Cut cold mush into slices three quarters of an inch in thickness; roll 
in cornmeal and flour (equal parts); dip in beaten egg, to which one 



24 TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 

tablespoonful of cold water has been added; roll in cornmeal and 
flour and fry in hot fat; drain on cheese cloth, and serve hot. 

CKULLERS. 

One-fourth of a cupful of butter, Two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 

One cupful of sugar, der, 

Two cupfuls of flour, One cupful of milk, 

One-half teaspoonful of nutmeg, Three drops of almond extract. 

Two eggs, 

Cream the butter; add the sugar and egg yolks and cream together; 
add the flour and milk alternately; sift the baking powder in with the 
flour; beat the whites of the eggs stiff and add before the last cup of 
flour; also the flavorings; roll very thin; cut into shape; fry in deep 
fat heated very hot; cook until nicely browned; roll in powdered 
sugar and cinnamon. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Three eggs, Two level teaspoonfuls of salt, 

Three cupfuls of sugar, One teaspoonful of ginger, 

One teaspoonful of nutmeg, Six teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
Three cupfuls of milk, der, 

One large tablespoonful of but- Flour enough to make a stiff 
ter, batter or very soft dough. 

Beat the eggs until creamy; add the sugar and beat together; add the 
butter, melted, and the salt, ginger and nutmeg; beat well; sift the 
baking powder with three cups of flour; add the milk and flour alter- 
nately and beat well together; then add enough more flour to make 
a very stiff batter; beat thoroughly, but do not knead; sprinkle the 
board well with flour; roll into a sheet about one-half inch in thick- 
ness; cut into shape and fry in very hot fat; cut all the doughnuts 
before frying, as the frying will require your full attention. 



Sauteing is cooking food in a small quantity of fat. Butter, when 
clarified, is the most satisfactory for some things, as it browns nicely 
and gives a delicious flavor to the food, but lard or drippings may be 
used. 

CLARIFIED BUTTER. 

To clarify butter, let it boil gently for about a minute the salt will 
settle to the bottom; the scum which rises to the top should be 
skimmed off, leaving the oil clear. 



SAUTE ING. 25 

MUSH. 

Cut cold mush into thin slices; cook on a griddle buttered with clari- 
fied butter until nicely browned. 

FRIED APPLES. 

Cut tart apples in thin slices; dust lightly with flour, and fry in 
clarified butter in a spider until nicely browned; serve with liver, break- 
fast bacon or pork chops. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Rub the chops with salt, sugar and pepper; dredge with flour; heat 
one tablespoonful of clarified butter or drippings in the spider; brown 
the chops nicely on both sides; add two tablespoonfuls of water; cover 
the spicier closely and let simmer ten minutes; serve on a hot platter; 
add one-fourth of a cupful of sweet milk to the gravy in the spider, and 
serve with the chops. 

PORK CHOPS. 

Season and cook the same as veal cutlets; veal and pork require long 
and thorough cooking. 

HAMBURG STEAKS. 

One pound of round steak chopped very fine; one tablespoonful of 
minced onion; pepper and salt to taste; mix the meat and seasonings 
thoroughly together; shape into cakes about three-fourths of an inch 
in thickness; grease the griddle or spider well; brown nicely on both 
sides; cook about five minutes, and serve. 

CALF'S LIVER. 

Cut in slices one-half inch in thickness; dust with pepper and salt 
and roll in flour; cook in bacon fat until nicely browned; serve with 
breakfast bacon or fried apples, or cover the liver with boiling water 
and let stand five minutes; season with pepper and salt; roll in flour and 
fry in bacon fat or clarified butter. 



Salads, to be palatable, should always be crisp and fresh and served 
icy cold. It is upon its crispness and the proper mingling and selec- 
tion of ingredients that its success depends ; when lettuce is to be used 
it must be washed carefully, taking care not to break the leaves. The 
targe dark leaves are not nice for salad. Of celery only the white, 



26 TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 

crisp parts are used, the green, tough parts being utilized for soups and 
stews. All fresh vegetables to be used for salad should stand in ice 
water until just before serving time. Vegetable salads are served after 
the meat course at dinner a rich salad, such as lobster, chicken, sweet- 
bread, etc., is out of place at a heavy meal. These latter are best served 
at lunches or suppers. In arranging a salad on a dish or in a bowl 
handle it very lightly; do not press it into form. The garnishings 
should be of the freshest and crispest kind. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Yolks of two eggs, Juice of one lemon, or one-third 

One pint of olive oil, of a cupful of vinegar. 

Place the oil and eggs in the refrigerator some time before using 
them. Put the yolks of the eggs into a cup just large enough to take 
the Dover egg-beater; beat the eggs until creamy; add a few drops of 
oil at a time and beat together until it thickens, then the oil can be 
added more rapidly; when it gets so thick that the beater turns hard 
add a tablespoonful of lemon juice or vinegar; add more oil and lemon 
juice until the oil is all used; when all the oil and vinegar are added 
the dressing should be thick; the dressing is seasoned according to the 
salad it is to be served with. The addition of a cupful of whipped 
cream after the seasonings are added makes a great improvement. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

One tablespoonful of sharp vine- One fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, 

gar, One-half saltspoonful of pepper. 

Three tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 

Mix the vinegar, salt, pepper and oil together and beat with a fork 
until the oil and vinegar unite. This dressing can be made at the table, 
and the salad dressed just before serving. 

COOKED MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Four egg yolks and one whole Six tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 

egg. One generous teaspoonful of butter. 

Heat the vinegar scalding hot; beat the eggs until creamy; pour the 
hot vinegar over the beaten eggs; cook over boiling water, stirring 
constantly until it thickens, then add the butter; season according to 
the salad to be served. 

CREAM DRESSING. 

One tablespoonful of butter, One cupful of rich milk, 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour, Four tablespoonfuls of vinegar or 

One-half of a cupful of cream, lemon juice. 

Melt the butter; add flour and cook together; add milk and stir until 
thickened; add gradually the vinegar and when cold stir in the cream. 



SALADS. 27 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Remove the skin and bone from a cold boiled or roast chicken; cut 
into half-inch dice; to one quart of diced chicken add two tablespoon- 
fuls of lemon juice, one-half teaspoonful of salt and one-half salt- 
spoonful of pepper; let stand in a cold place for two or three hours; cut 
into half-inch dice enough tender white celery to make three cupfuls; 
mix the chicken and celery together; season one cupful of mayonnaise 
dressing with one-half teaspoonful of dry mustard, one-half teaspoonful 
of salt, one-half saltspoonful of white pepper and a dash of cayenne; 
mix the seasonings together and add to the dressing; then add one- 
half cupful of whipped cream; mix one-half of the dressing with the 
chicken and celery; arrange in a salad bowl and pour the remainder 
of the dressing on top; garnish the dish with crisp bits of celery or 
white celery leaves. 

Equal parts of chicken and sweetbread, or chicken and veal mixed 
with celery make a nice salad. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD. 

Cover the sweetbread with cold water; add one teaspoonful of salt 
and stand two or three hours; drain; cover with boiling water; add 
one teaspoonful of lemon juice; cook until tender; drain; drop into cold 
water and let stand until cold; remove the membranes and pull apart 
with a silver fork into small pieces; mix two cupfuls of sweetbreads, 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one-half teaspoonful of salt and half a 
saltspoonful of pepper together; let stand on the ice for one hour; cut 
into dice cucumbers enough to make two cupfuls ; let stand in ice water 
one hour. Season one-half cupful of mayonnaise with one-fourth of a 
teaspoonful of salt; mix half the dressing with the sweetbreads and 
cucumbers; arrange in salad bowl, and pour the remainder of the dress- 
ing on top; serve immediately. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Cut the lobster into dice; season with salt, pepper and lemon juice, 
the same as chicken; let stand an hour; separate and wash carefully the 
leaves from a crisp head of lettuce; let stand in ice water for half an 
hour; at serving time shake free from water; arrange two or three 
leaves together in the form of a nest, and arrange the nests on a large 
dish or individual dishes; season the mayonnaise to taste with a mixture 
of one teaspoonful of mustard, one teaspoonful of salt and a fourth of 
a teaspoonful of mixed pepper; mix one-half the dressing with the 
lobster; put a tablespoonful into each shell and a teaspoonful of dress- 
ing on top. 

Another way of serving lobster salad is to tear the lettuce into large 
pieces and mix with the lobster, using one-third as much lettuce as 
lobster, garnishing the dish with the whole leaves. 



28 TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 

SHKIMP SALAD. 

Prepare and serve shrimps the same as lobster; the shrimps may be 
left whole or cut into small pieces. 

Crab salad is also prepared in the same way. 

FISH SALADS. 

All kinds of cold cooked fish can be used for salads. Dress with a 
French or mayonnaise dressing, season to taste, and serve with lettuce 
leaves. 

MEAT SALAD. 

One pint of cold meat cut in thin slices and then cut into small 
pieces ; to the French dressing add one tablespoonful of minced parsley 
and one teaspoonful of onion juice; put a layer of meat in the salad 
bowl; pour on some dressing, another layer of meat, and so on until 
all the meat and dressing is used; let stand on the ice two hours; gar- 
nish the dish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Any kind of tender 
meat may be used. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Drop six medium-sized tomatoes into boiling water; let stand two 
or three minutes; remove the skin; cut off about one-fourth of each 
tomato; with a sharp knife cut the pulp loose from the sides and scoop 
out the center; fill each shell with chipped ice and stand in the refrig- 
erator for two or three hours; cut pulp and the upper part of the 
tomato into dice; drain; season two tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise dress- 
ing with one-fourth teaspoonful of salt; mix the mayonnaise and the 
diced tomatoes together; empty the tomato cups; fill with the salad 
and set on a lettuce leaf, or garnish the plate with nasturtium leaves. 

Tomato salad may also be served without the cups. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Six medium-sized potatoes, One teaspoonful of dry mustard, 

Four tablespoonfuls of cooked Two teaspoonfuls of salt, 

mayonnaise, One-fourth of a teaspoonful of 

One tablespoonful of minced white pepper, 

parsley, Dash of cayenne, 

One tablespoonful of minced Sweet cream. 

onion, 

Pare and cover the potatoes with boiling water; add one teaspoonful 
of salt; boil slowly until tender; drain; remove the cover and shake 
over the fire until the potatoes are dry; when cool enough to handle 
cut into thin slices; mix the pepper, salt, and mustard together; add to 
the cooked mayonnaise and mix until smooth, then add onion and 
parsley; slowly add sweet cream enough to make it the consistency of 
thin cream; put a layer of potatoes in the salad bowl; cover with the 



SALADS. 29 

dressing, then another layer of potatoes and more dressing until 
the bowl is filled ; pour the remainder of the dressing over the potatoes 
and set in a cold place for two or three hours; garnish with sprigs of 
parsley. 

BEET SALAD. 

Boil beets; remove skins and cut into dice; season with salt and 
pepper; mix with cream dressing; garnish with sprigs of parsley, and 
serve. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

Boil three bunches of asparagus in boiling salted water until tender; 
when cold cut off the tender parts; mix with a cream dressing, sea- 
soned with pepper and salt, or serve six stalks with one teaspoonful of 
mayonnaise to each person. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

One small head of cabbage, One-half of a teaspoonful of salt, 

One-half of a cupful of cooked One-half of a saltspoonful of pepper, 

mayonnaise dressing, One-half of a cupful of sweet cream. 
Two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

Divide the cabbage in four parts; wash well in cold water; take off 
all the wilted leaves and cut out the tough parts from the center; shred 
the cabbage very fine with a sharp knife and throw into cold water 
until crisp ; mix the salt, sugar and pepper together and then mix into 
the dressing; add the cream gradually; shake off all the water from the 
cabbage; mix with the dressing, and serve. Hard boiled eggs, 
chopped fine, may be added to the salad if desired. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Break off all the leaves carefully from a head of lettuce; wash and 
throw into ice water for one or two hours; then shake off all the water; 
dress with French dressing, and serve. If the leaves are very large 
tear into pieces. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Wash and cut the celery into strips; let stand in ice water for half 
an hour; cut into pieces about an inch long and dress with mayonnaise 
dressing, seasoned to taste with pepper and salt and mustard; arrange 
in the salad bowl and garnish with choice bits of celery. 

APPLE SALAD. 

Three tart apples, Six tablespoonfuls of whipped 
One-half pound of English wal- cream, 

nuts, One tablespoonful of sugar, 

One tablespoonful of cooked One-half saltspoonful of salt. 

mayonnaise dressing, 



30 TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 

Pare, core, quarter and slice very thin the apples; chop the walnuts 
fine; add the sugar, salt and cream to the dressing; mix the apples and 
nuts and add the dressing; serve immediately. 

BANANA SALAD. 

Six bananas, Juice of two large lemons, 

One cupful of sugar, One-fourth cupful of water. 

Cook the sugar and water together for five minutes; when cold add 
the lemon juice; slice six bananas very thin into the salad bowl; pour 
over them the syrup and let stand one or two hours before serving. 

FKUIT SALAD. 

One-half dozen oranges, One-half pound of white grapes, 

Three bananas, Juice of one lemon, 

Quarter of a box of gelatine, Powdered sugar, 

Quarter of a package of cocoa- One-eighth of a pound of can- 
nut, died cherries. 
Half a cupful of sugar, 

Skin and seed the grapes; take the juice and pulp of the oranges, 
removing the seeds and membrane; peel and slice the bananas very 
thin; cover the gelatine with cold water and let stand half an hour; add 
half a cupful of boiling water and half a cupful of sugar; stir until dis- 
solved; add the orange and lemon juice; put a layer of bananas in the 
bottom of individual dishes, then add the grapes and orange pulp; 
dredge well with the powdered sugar; pour the gelatine mixture 
around the fruit; cover the top with cocoanut and stick about pieces of 
candied cherries; place on ice until stiff enough to serve. 



i^eat ^ Fisl) 



WHITE SAUCE. 

Cook together one tablespoonful of butter and one of flour; add one 
cupful of rich milk ; stir until smooth ; season with pepper and salt. 

BKOWN SAUCE. 

Cook one tablespoonful of butter until it browns; add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and cook together until a dark brown; add one 
cupful of soup stock and stir until it thickens ; season with pepper and 
salt. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, Four tablespoonfuls of horseradish, 

One tablespoonful of flour, One tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 

Two cupfuls of stock, Juice of one lemon, 

Pepper and salt to taste, One tablespoonful of sugar. 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES. 31 



Cook the butter and flour together; add the stock and stir until it 
boils; add the horseradish, sugar, pepper and salt; let it boil for one 
minute; remove from the fire and add lemon juice and parsley. This 
is a nice sauce for roast veal. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Four tablespoonfuls of butter, One can of mushrooms, 
Two tablespoonfuls of flour, Pepper and salt. 

Two cupfuls of stock, 

Cook the butter and flour together until a dark brown ; add the stock 
and stir until it boils, then add the liquor from the mushrooms and let 
the mushrooms simmer five minutes; season and serve. This is to be 
served with roast or braised beef. 

BEUREE NOIR (MISS PAKLOA). 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, One tablespoonful of minced parsley, 
One tablespoonful of vinegar, One teaspoonful of lemon juice, 
One-half teaspoonful of salt, One quarter teaspoonful of pepper. 

Cook the butter in a saucepan until it boils; add the parsley and then 
the other ingredients and boil up once. This sauce to be poured over 
fried or boiled fish before sending to the table. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

One tablespoonful of butter, One tablespoonful of flour, 

One cupful of stewed and One tablespoonful minced onion, 
strained tomatoes, Salt and pepper. 

Fry the onion in the butter until a light brown; add the flour and 
cook together, then the tomatoes, and stir until thickened ; season with 
pepper and salt. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

One-half cupful of butter, Juice of half a lemon, 

Yolks of two eggs, Few grains of cayenne. 

One-half cupful of boiling water, 

Cream the butter; add the eggs and cream together; add seasonings, 
and then the boiling water; cook in double boiler until creamy, then 
add lemon juice. 

BUTTER SAUCE. 

Two cupfuls of boiling water, Two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
One-half cupful of butter, One tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

Dash of cayenne, 

Cream the butter, add the flour and beat together; add gradually the 
boiling water, stirring constantly; let come to a boil; add lemon juice 
and pepper, and serve. 



32 TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

One-third of a cupful of butter, Juice of half a lemon, 

One tablespoonful of flour, Pepper and salt and a dash of 

One pint of oysters, cayenne. 

Cream the butter; add the flour and beat together; cook the oysters 
in their own liquor until they boil; skim out the oysters and add 
enough water to the liquor to make one pint; add to the butter and 
flour and cook until it thickens, then add the oysters and seasonings. 

SAUCE TARTARE. 

To one pint of mayonnaise dressing add one teaspoonful each of 
chopped pickles, capers, olives, parsley and onion juice; season with 
one-half teaspoonful of mustard, one teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth of 
a saltspoonful of pepper and a dash of cayenne; serve with fried or 
broiled fish or fish balls. 

CHAMPAGNE SAUCE. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, One tablespoonful of flour, 

One cupful of rich stock, One-half cupful of champagne. 

Pepper and salt, 

Cook the butter and flour together until a dark brown ; add the stock 
and stir until smooth; season with salt and pepper; remove from the 
fire, and add the champagne. 



$! Vegetables *& 

All green vegetables must be cooked in freshly boiled salted water; 
allow one teaspoonful of salt for every quart of water. The younger 
the vegetable the more quickly it will cook. 

POTATOES. 

Nearly every housekeeper fancies she can cook a potato, and yet we 
have so many soggy and poor-flavored potatoes brought to our tables. 
The potato is composed chiefly of starch and water. When subjected 
to heat the starch cells burst and the potato becomes tender. If re- 
moved from the water or oven as soon as the starch is set free the 
potato will be mealy and dry, but if allowed to cook longer the starch 
will absorb the moisture and the potato be soggy. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

If cooking new T potatoes boil them in their jackets; old potatoes, 
scrub, pare and let stand in cold water two or three hours to freshen 
them; cover with boiling water, to which a teaspoonful of salt has been 



VEGETABLES. 



added, and boil gently from twenty to thirty minutes; medium-sized 
potatoes will require thirty minutes; rapid boiling will break the 
potatoes; when cooked drain off every drop of water; remove the cover 
and shake the saucepan over the fire until the potatoes are dry and 
mealy; serve immediately. The potatoes should be put on to boil just 
one-half hour before they are to be served. If they must stand, set 
the saucepan on the back part of the stove and cover with a towel 
until serving time. The towel will absorb the moisture. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Boil six medium-sized potatoes; drain and shake over the fire; mash 
fine; add one teaspoonful of salt and one level tablespoonful of butter 
and beat well; heat a quarter of a cupful of milk; pour the hot milk over 
the potatoes and beat until light and creamy; pile on a hot dish; do not 
smooth the mound, but leave it irregular; serve immediately. 

KICED POTATOES. 

Prepare the potatoes as for mashed potato; press through a potato- 
ricer into a hot dish; put the dish in the oven for five minutes. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Select potatoes of uniform size; scrub and remove any imperfections 
in the skin; wipe dry and put into a hot oven; bake about forty-five min- 
utes, or until the potato is soft, when pressed between the fingers; when 
baked cut a slit lengthwise in the potato and press the potato gently; 
remove immediately from the oven; cover .with a towel until serving 
time; send baked potatoes to the table covered with a doily to protect 
them from the cold air. 

BAKED POTATOES WITH KOAST BEEF 

Pare small potatoes and put into the pan with the roast beef about 
half an hour before the meat is cooked; arrange on the dish with the 
beef. 

FRENCH FEIED POTATOES. 

Pare and cut into six pieces on the length of the potato; let stand in 
cold water two or three hours; wipe, and fry in very hot fat; drain; dust 
with salt and serve with steak or chops. 

POTATO BALLS. 

Pare eight or ten large potatoes; with a vegetable scoop cut little 
balls from the potato; drop them into ice water and let stand two or 
three hours; wipe and put in the frying basket; lower gently into very 
hot fat; cook until nicely browned about five minutes; drain; dredge 
with salt and serve very hot. 



34 TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

One quart of cold boiled potatoes cut in half-inch dice; one pint of 
white sauce; one tablespoonful of minced parsley; pepper and salt: 
season the potatoes with pepper and salt; add to the white sauce and 
cook slowly until the potatoes are hot; add the parsley and stir care- 
fully; serve immediately. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

One quart of cold boiled pota- Two tablespoonfuls minced onion, 

toes, cut into dice, One tablespoonful minced parsley, 

Three tablespoonfuls of clarified Salt and pepper, 
butter, 

Season the potatoes with salt and pepper; brown the onion lightly in 
the clarified butter; add the potatoes and the parsley, cooking until 
nicely browned, being careful not to break them; serve immediately 
on a hot dish. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash and cover with boiling salted water; boil gently until tender, 
or parboil the potatoes ; pare and cut in halves ; dust lightly with sugar, 
salt and pepper; put two tablespoonfuls of clarified butter into a small 
dripping pan ; lay the potatoes on the pan and bake in a hot oven. 

BOILED RICE. 

Pick over and wash one cupful of rice; drop gradually into two 
quarts of rapidly boiling salted water, and boil rapidly until the rice is 
soft; drain in a sieve; hold the sieve under the faucet and let the cold 
water run through it ; shake well ; turn out on a shallow pan and set in 
a moderate oven to dry; stir occasionally. 

BOILED MACARONI. 

Two quarts of boiling water; two teaspoonfuls of salt; six sticks of 
macaroni ; break the macaroni into inch pieces ; wash and drop into the 
salted water; boil rapidly for thirty minutes; drain; hold colander under 
faucet and let the cold water run over the macaroni; shake well and 
drain. 

MACARONI AND CREAM SAUCE. 

Make a white sauce; season the boiled macaroni with pepper and 
salt; mix with the white sauce and simmer for five minutes. 

MACARONI AND TOMATO SAUCE. 

Cook the macaroni as directed; add to one pint of tomato sauce, and 
simmer five minutes. 



VEGETABLES. 35 



MACAKONI AND CHEESE. 

One pint of white sauce, One cupful of grated cheese, 

Six sticks of macaroni, One-half cupful of bread crumbs, 

One tablespoonful of butter, Pepper and salt. 

Boil the macaroni; butter the baking dish; put a layer of macaroni 
in the bottom; sprinkle thickly with cheese; pour over it a cupful of 
white sauce, then another layer of macaroni, more cheese and white 
sauce; moisten the crumbs with the butter, melted; spread on top and 
bake in a moderate oven until the crumbs are brown. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Peel; cover with boiling salted water; cook slowly for ten minutes; 
drain off the water and add more; cook for half an hour, or until ten- 
der; drain and cover with milk and simmer gently for ten minutes; 
season with pepper, salt and butter, and serve. 

TOMATOES. 

Scald; peel and set on ice about two hours before serving; slice and 
serve with sugar, salt and vinegar or mayonnaise dressing. 

ESCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

One quart can of tomatoes, One saltspoonful of pepper, 

One teaspoonful of salt, Two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

Four slices of stale bread, One cupful of bread crumbs. 
One tablespoonful of butter, 

Butter the baking dish; cut the bread into small squares; season the 
tomatoes with pepper and salt; put a layer of bread in the bottom of 
baking dish; pour over it some of the tomatoes, another layer of bread 
and more tomatoes, until the material is used; moisten the bread 
crumbs with melted butter; spread over the top; bake in moderate oven 
twenty minutes, or until the crumbs are nicely browned. 

CAULIFLOWER 

Pick off the outside leaves; soak in cold water for about an hour; 
cook in boiling salted water until tender; drain; cover with cream 
sauce, and serve. 

CABBAGE. 

Remove the outside leaves; cut into quarters and remove the 
tough portion; cook in boiling salted water; drain; chop fine; season 
with pepper, salt and butter. 

SPINACH. 

Pick over and wash thoroughly; put into a kettle with just enough 
water to keep it from burning; boil until tender; drain and chop fine; 
season with pepper, salt and butter; garnish with hard-boiled eggs. 



36 TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Wash carefully; tie into bundles; cover with boiling, slightly salted 
water, and boil for fifteen minutes, or until the asparagus is tender; 
drain ; season with pepper, salt and butter, or pour a white sauce over it 
and serve on toast. Asparagus may be served cold with a mayonnaise 
dressing. The water in which the asparagus is boiled can be used for 
soup. 

BEANS. 

Remove the strings; cut into inch pieces; wash and cook in boiling 
salted water for two or three hours, or until the beans are tender; 
drain; season with butter, pepper and salt; when very young they will 
cook in much shorter time. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Wash the pods before shelling; cover the pods with boiling, slightly 
salted water; cook ten minutes; skim out the pods and put in the peas; 
boil until tender; the fresh pods are sweet and very highly flavored; let 
the water boil nearly away; season with butter, pepper and salt; a little 
sugar and sweet cream may be added. 

SWEET CORN. 

Remove the husk and silk; put into boiling water; cover and cook 
from five to fifteen minutes; take up the corn as soon as the raw taste 
is destroyed. 



VIENNA BREAD. 

Flour, One compressed yeast cake, 

One pint of wetting (half milk One teaspoonful of salt. 
and water), 

Dissolve the yeast in half a cupful of cold water; add the salt to the 
wetting, which should be luke warm, or at a temperature of about 
eighty degrees, then add the yeast; stir in flour enough to make a stiff 
batter; beat thoroughly; add enough more flour to make a soft dough; 
turn out on a well-floured bread board and knead until soft and vel- 
vety; when it will not stick to the hands or board there is sufficient 
flour; put into a buttered bowl; brush th'e top with melted butter or 
drippings ; cover with a towel and let rise for three hours, or until it is 
double its bulk; the dough should be kept at a temperature of seventy- 
five degrees ; when the dough is light, shape into loaves or rolls and put 



BREAD. 37 



on the pans; butter the top and allow it to stand one hour, or until it 
is light; bake in a hot oven; the oven for baking bread should be hot 
enough to brown a small quantity of flour in two minutes; bake until 
nicely browned all over; it requires from forty-five minutes to one hour 
to bake a loaf of bread. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Take a small piece of dough about four inches square; shape into a 
ball; roll under the palms of the hands upon the bread board into a 
long roll about one inch in diameter; lay in a buttered roll pan; butter 
the top lightly; cover with a towel and let rise one hour, or until double 
its bulk; bake in a hot oven twenty minutes, or until nicely browned; 
cool the bread and rolls where a draught of fresh air will pass around 
the bread. 

SOUP STICKS. 

Take a small bit of Vienna dough about one inch and a half square ; 
roll into a long stick; lay in buttered soup-stick pans, or about half an 
inch apart on a flat pan; butter the top lightly; bake immediately in a 
hot oven until nicely browned ; serve with soup. 

MILK BREAD. 

One quart of milk, Two teaspoonfuls of salt, 

One compressed yeast cake, Flour enough to make a soft dough. 

Dissolve the yeast in one-half cupful of cold water; heat the milk 
to about eighty degrees; add the salt and dissolve yeast; mix in flour 
enough to make a soft dough ; beat well ; turn out on bread board and 
knead until soft and velvety; put into a buttered bowl; brush the top 
with melted fat; cover and let rise for five hours, or until double its 
bulk; shape into loaves; butter the top and let rise one hour; bake. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Take a piece of lightened milk-bread dough ; roll into a sheet about 
one-half inch in thickness; let the dough shrink; cut the rolls with a 
large cutter; pull into an oval shape; spread with softened butter and 
fold over, having the edges come together; brush the top with butter 
and let rise one hour, or until light; bake. 

TWIN ROLLS. 

Cut the rolls from a sheet of dough a quarter of an inch in thickness; 
put two rolls together, spreading softened butter between ; let rise for 
one hour and bake. 



38 TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 



GRAHAM BREAD. 

One pint milk and water (equal One tablespoonful of sugar, 

parts), One teaspoonful of salt. 

One compressed yeast cake, 

Dissolve the yeast in one-half cupful of cold water : have the wetting 
luke warm and add to it the yeast, sugar and salt: mix in enough gra- 
ham flour, sifted, to make a soft dough ; flour the board well with white 
flour; turn out the dough and knead until it ceases to stick to the 
board ; let rise for three hours, then shape into loaves ; let rise one hour, 
or until it is light; then bake. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Two cupfuls of cornmeal, One teaspoonful of salt, 

Two cupfuls of graham flour, Two teaspoonfuls of soda. 

One cupful of molasses, Three cupfuls of buttermilk. 

Mix the. cornmeal, graham flour, salt and soda together; add the 
molasses and the buttermilk gradually ; fill mould two-thirds full ; steam 
in single mould six hours in small moulds two or three hours. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE. 

One and one-half yeast cakes, One teaspoonful of salt, 

Three eggs, One pint of milk, 

Three tablespoonfuls of sugar, Three tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Cover the yeast with cold water; beat the eggs until light; heat the 
milk scalding hot; pour the hot milk over the beaten egg; add the 
sugar and salt and allow it to stand until cool (about 80 degrees) ; add 
the yeast, and flour enough to make a soft dough ; turn out on a well- 
floured bread board and knead until smooth ; put into a buttered bowl ; 
cover and let rise three hours, or until light; soften the butter and mix it 
thoroughly into the dough; allow it to rise again for two hours; roll 
into a sheet one inch in thickness and put into a buttered pan; spread 
with melted butter, dredge with sugar and cinnamon and let rise one 
hour; bake in a moderate oven thirty-five minutes. 

BUNS. 

Take a piece of coffee-cake dough; shape into round buns; place 
half an inch apart on a buttered pan ; brush the top with melted butter ; 
let rise one hour and bake in a moderate oven. 

CINNAMON ROLLS. 

Roll a piece of coffee-cake dough in a sheet one-fourth inch in 
thickness; cut into strips; brush with melted butter; dust with sugar 
and cinnamon; roll into shape; place one inch apart on a buttered pan 
and let rise one hour; bake in a moderately hot oven. 



BREAD. 39 

JENNY LIND. 

Take a large piece of coffee-cake dough and mix with it half a cupful 
of currants or stoned raisins; roll into a sheet half an inch in thickness; 
cut in circular shape; brush the top with melted butter; fold over, leav- 
ing the top edge one inch from the under edge; raise one hour; bake in 
a moderate oven from thirty to forty-five minutes. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

One quart of flour, Two tablespoonfuls of butter, 

Two teaspoonfuls of baking Sweet milk enough to make a soft 

powder, dough. 

One teaspoonful of salt, 

Sift the flour before it is measured; sift flour, salt and baking powder 
together; rub the butter into it with the fingers; add the milk and beat 
to a smooth dough; turn out upon the bread board; dust with flour and 
roll into a sheet three-quarters of an inch thick; cut into small biscuit; 
butter the biscuit pan and dust lightly with flour; lay the biscuit close 
together and bake in a hot oven ten minutes. 

QUICK SWEDISH ROLLS. 

Roll a piece of baking-powder biscuit dough into a sheet one half 
inch in thickness; spread with softened butter; dust with cinnamon 
and sugar; roll like a jelly roll; with a sharp knife cut off bits from the 
end about one-half inch ; lay the flat side on a well-buttered pan ; bake 
in a hot oven ten minutes. These make a very good substitute for 
cinnamon rolls : to be served hot. 

SHORTCAKE. 

One pint of flour, One egg, 

One-half teaspoonful of salt, Two tablespoonfuls of butter, 

One and one-half teaspoonfuls One-half cupful of milk, 
of baking powder, 

Sift the flour, salt and baking powder together; rub the butter into 
the flour; beat the egg until light; add the milk; beat, do not knead, the 
dough ; turn out on a well-floured board ; roll into sheets one-half inch 
in thickness; butter and flour the baking pan; lay a sheet of the cake in 
the pan; brush the top with melted butter; put on a second sheet; bake 
in a moderate oven fifteen or twenty minutes ; when baked separate the 
sheets; put a layer of fruit, sprinkled with powdered sugar, between, 
another layer of fruit on top and cover with whipped cream ; strawber- 
ries, raspberries, pineapple, oranges, or any kind of fruit desired may 
be used. 

MUFFINS. 

Two cupfuls of flour, Two tablespoonfuls of melted but- 

Two teaspoonfuls of baking ter, 

powder, Two eggs, 

One cupful of milk, One-half saltspoonful of salt. 



40 TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 



Sift the flour, baking powder and salt together; separate the eggs; 
add the yolks and the milk gradually to the flour; beat to a smooth 
batter; add the melted butter; beat the whites of the eggs stiff and add 
last; bake in gem pans in a hot oven half an hour. 

SALLY LUNNS. 

Two cupfuls of flour, One-half cupful of milk, 

One and one-half teaspoonfuls Two eggs, 

of baking powder, Two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

One-half teaspoonful of salt, One-third cupful of butter. 

Sift the flour, salt, sugar and baking powder together; separate the 
eggs and beat separately ; add the yolks and milk to the flour and beat 
thoroughly, then the melted butter and lastly the whites of the eggs 
beaten stiff; bake in gem pans in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. 

RAISED MUFFINS. 

One egg, Two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

One cupful of milk, One-half yeast cake, 

Two cupfuls of flour, One tablespoonful of melted but- 
One-half teaspoonful of salt, ter. 

Cover the yeast cake with cold water and let it dissolve; heat the 
milk scalding hot; beat the egg, salt and sugar together; pour the hot 
milk over the beaten egg; let stand until hike warm, then add the 
yeast and flour; beat to a smooth batter; let rise for four or five hours; 
fill muffin pans two-thirds full ; let rise from twenty to thirty minutes ; 
bake in a hot oven. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

One and one-half cupfuls of gra- One tablespoonful of melted butter, 

ham flour, sifted, One-half teaspoonful of salt, 

One cupful of milk, One egg, 

One tablespoonful of -sugar, Two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Mix the flour, salt and baking powder together; beat the egg; add 
the sugar and beat together, then the milk ; mix the flour into the egg 
and milk and beat to a smooth batter; add the melted butter; bake in 
buttered gem pans in a hot oven. 

POPOVERS. 

One cupful of flour, One-half teaspoonful of salt, 

One egg, One cupful of milk. 

Beat the egg very light; add the milk and beat together; mix the 
flour and salt; add half a cupful of the liquid and mix to a smooth 
batter; beat thoroughly, then add the rest of the milk and beat; heat 
buttered iron gem pans hissing hot; half fill with the mixture; bake in 
a hot oven thirty-five or forty minutes. 



BREAD. 41 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One cupful of flour, One-half teaspoonful of salt, 

One cupful of buttermilk, One-half teaspoonful of soda. 

One egg, 

Mix the flour, salt and soda together; separate the egg; add the 
yolk to the flour and gradually add the buttermilk; beat the white of 
the egg stiff; add to the batter; if sour milk is used instead of butter- 
milk add one tablespoonful of melted butter; have the griddle hot; 
grease it with a piece of fat pork. 



FLANNEL CAKES. 

Two cupfuls of flour, Two eggs, 

Cup and a half of milk, One-half teaspoonful of salt, 

One tablespoonful of melted Two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
butter, 

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt together; separate the eggs; 
add the yolks unbeaten to the flour and the milk gradually; beat to a 
smooth batter; beat the whites of the eggs stiff; add the melted butter 
to the batter, and lastly the beaten whites of the eggs ; cook .on a hot 
griddle. 



WAFFLES. 

Two cupfuls of flour, Cup and one-fourth of milk, 

Two teaspoonfuls of baking Three eggs, 

powder, One tablespoonful of melted butter. 

One teaspoonful of salt, 

Mix the flour, salt and baking powder together; separate the eggs 
and add the yolks to the flour; add the milk gradually and beat to a 
smooth batter; add the melted butter and lastly the whites of the eggs, 
beaten stiff; heat the waffle iron hissing hot; butter with clarified but- 
ter; fill the waffle iron two-thirds full; close the iron and cook one 
minute, then turn and cook two or three minutes on the other side; 
serve with maple syrup or caramel syrup. 



CARAMEL SYRUP. 

Cook one cupful of sugar and one-fourth cupful of water over a hot 
fire, without stirring until it begins to brown; then stir until of a rich 
golden brown ; add one-half cupful of water and stir over the fire until 
smooth; serve with waffles. 



42 TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 



Eggs 



SOFT BOILED EGGS. 

Put two eggs in a saucepan; cover with boiling water; cover and let 
stand eight minutes. This method will cook both white and yolk. If 
you are cooking a large number of eggs cover with boiling water and 
let stand five minutes; pour off and add more boiling water; let stand 
five minutes longer. 

HARD BOILED EGGS. 

Cover the eggs with boiling water and boil twenty minutes. Cook- 
ing e SS s ten minutes makes the yolks leatherly and indigestible; cook- 
ing twenty minutes makes them light and mealy. 

SHIRKED EGGS. 

Butter a sauce plate; separate two eggs, taking care not to break the 
yolks; beat the whites stiff; pile up irregularly upon the sauce plate; 
make two nests in the whites; slip in the yolks; bake in cool oven until 
the white is lightly browned; season with pepper, salt and a bit of 
butter, and serve. 

SHIRRED EGGS, NO. 2. 

Butter individual plates; break carefully two eggs into each; season 
with pepper^ salt and bits of butter; bake in a moderate oven until the 
white is set. 

POACHED EGGS. 

To one quart of water add one tablespoonful of salt and boil slowly ; 
break the eggs carefully and slip into the water; dip the water over the 
eggs; loosen carefully from the bottom of the pan; when the white is 
set lift on a skimmer; trim the edges and slip onto toast. 



SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Four eggs, One-half teaspoonful of salt. 

One tablespoonful of butter, 

Break the eggs with a fork; add the salt; melt the butter in omelet 
pan; pour in the beaten eggs; stir for two minutes over a hot fire, and 
serve. 

FRENCH OMELET. 

Five eggs, Five tablespoonfuls of water, 

One tablespoonful of clarified Pepper and salt, 
butter, 



EGGS. 43 

Break the eggs with a fork; add the water and beat together; have 
omelet pan perfectly smooth; put the clarified butter in the pan; when 
it begins to sizzle pour in the omelet and shake vigorously over the 
fire until the omelet thickens on the bottom; with a fork lift the cooked 
egg and let the uncooked run under; season with pepper and salt; 
loosen from the sides of the pan with a flexible knife and slip the knife 
under the omelet; fold and turn onto a hot dish; serve immediately. 
Grated cheese, chopped ham, chicken or parsley can be sprinkled on 
before folding the omelet. 

LIGHT OMELET. 

Four eggs, Half a teaspoonful of salt, 

Four tablespoonfuls of milk, One teaspoonful of clarified butter. 

Separate the eggs; beat the yolks and milk together; add the salt; 
beat the whites stiff and add to the mixture; melt the butter in an 
omelet pan ; turn in the egg mixture and cook until nicely browned 
underneath; set in a cool oven until the egg is firm; loosen from the 
pan; fold and serve immediately. 



Pies ? 





FLAKY PASTKY. 

One cupful of flour, One-third cupful of shortening, 

One saltspoonful of salt, One-fourth cupful of ice *water. 

Have all the material cold; put the flour and salt into a chopping 
bowl; add the shortening (half butter and half lard) and chop into 
pieces the size of a pea; moisten the pastry with the ice water, mixing 
lightly with a fork; turn out on a floured board; draw together into 
oblong shape; roll back and forth into an oblong sheet; fold into 
thirds; turn half way around and roll back and forth; fold again and 
turn half way around and roll out for a third time; brush off all the 
surplus flour; roll like a jelly roll; wrap in a napkin and set on ice; it 
can be used immediately, or stand on ice until the next day. 

PUFF PASTE. 

One cupful of ice water, One teaspoonful of salt, 

One pound of flour, White of one egg. 

One pound of butter, 

Have material and utensils cold; wash the butter in cold water and 
knead with a spoon until it becomes waxy; shape into an oblong sheet 
about an inch in thickness and set it in a pan of ice water; mix the salt 
and flour together; rub one-third of the butter into the flour; moisten 
with the egg and ice water; mix with a knife; stir vigorously; dredge 
the board lightly with flour; turn out the paste; sprinkle lightly with 




44 TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 

flour; roll backward and forward; turn the paste half way around and 
roll from you; when about one-fourth of an inch in thickness wipe the 
remainder of the butter and lay it on the paste; sprinkle lightly with 
flour; fold, the paste from each side until the edges meet, then fold 
from the ends; pound lightly and roll back and forth two or three 
times; double the paste and roll down to one-half inch in thickness; 
fold in thirds and turn half way around; roll down again; repeat this 
for six times; place on ice to harden for one or two hours before using; 
if the paste sticks place it on ice; when chilled it will roll more easily; 
use as little flour as possible. 

MINCE PIE. 

Lean beef, four pounds, Four pounds of currants, 

Two pounds of suet, Half a pound of citron, 

Four quarts of chopped apples, Juice of six lemons, 

Five pounds of sugar, One pint of molasses, 

Four pounds of raisins, Three quinces, 

Three quarts of sweet cider, One pint of brandy, 

Cloves, cinnamon, mace, and Three ounces each of candied 
nutmeg three tablespoon- orange and lemon peel, 

fuls of each, One pint of wliite wine, 

Two cupfuls of meat broth, Two tablespoonfuls of salt. 

Cook and mince the meat fin%;*hop the suet fine; cook the quinces 
TT. the cider until soft; chop the citron, lemon and orange peel; mix all 
the ingredients and cook slowly until the apples are soft; add the 
brandy and wine last; pack away in jars covered tightly; take half the 
flaky pastry; roll into a sheet one-fourth inch in thickness; cover the 
piepan, putting the pastry on quite full; fill with mince meat, having 
it about half an inch thick; roll out the Other half of the pastry about 
one-eighth inch in thickness ; fold over and cut two or three slits ; cover 
the pie and bake in a moderate oven. 

LEMON PIE. 

Grated rind of one lemon, Three-quarters of a cupful of boiling 

Two level tablespoonfuls of corn- water, 

starch. Yolks of two eggs, 

Three-quarters of a cupful of One teaspoonful of butter, 

sugar, Juice of one lemon. 

Mix the cornstarch and.sugar together and add to the boiling water, 
stirring until it thickens; add the grated rind of the lemon and cook 
for ten minutes ; beat the yolks of the eggs until creamy ; add slowly 
to the cornstarch^ cooking two minutes longer; remove from the fire 
and add the lemon juice and butter; line a piepan with flaky pastry and 
a rim; cover with wax paper; fill with pieces of stale bread and bake in 
a moderate oven; when baked remove the paper and fill with the 
mixture; beat the whites of the eggs stiff; add two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and beat together; cover the pie with the meringue and bake in 
a cool oven until lightly browned. 



PASTRY AND PIES. 45 



JUICY FKUIT PIES. 

Line a piepan with pastry; fill with ..n old piece of linen; put on the 
upper crust and bake in a moderate oven; stew the fruit; season to 
taste ; when the pastry is baked separate with a sharp knife ; remove the 
linen; fill with fruit; place the cover on top and set aside to cool; many 
of these shells can be baked at one time and filled when required, but 
the pastry must be reheated; remember to put the filling into the 
pie while both are hot. 

CUSTAKD PIE. 

Line a piepan with pastry and a rim; dust lightly with flour; scald 
three cupfuls of milk; beat three eggs until creamy; add three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar and beat together; pour the scalded milk over the 
beaten egg; add one saltspoonful of salt and one saltspoonful of nut- 
meg; fill the piepan and bake slowly; as soon as it puffs up test with a 
knife; if it comes out clean it is done. 



Paddincr^ 



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One-half pound of stale bread One-fourth pound of figs, 

crumbs, One-eighth pound of citron, 

One cupful of hot milk, One-half pound of suet, 

One-half cupful of sugar, One-fourth cup of brandy, 

Four eggs, One-half teaspoonful each of cinna- 
One-half pound of raisins, mon, mace, cloves, nutmeg, 

One-half pound of currants, One teaspoonful of salt. 

Cover the bread crumbs with the milk; separate the tggs; beat the 
yolks until creamy; add the sugar and beat together; add to the bread 
and milk; chop and flour the figs and suet; add all the ingredients to 
the bread and milk; beat whites of the eggs stiff and add to the mix- 
ture; butter the mould; fill three-quarters full; steam in a single mould 
from five to twelve hours; serve with brandy sauce. 

STEAMED SUET PUDDING. 

Three cupfuls of flour, One cup of water, 

One level teaspoonful of soda, One cup of molasses, 

One cup of chopped suet, One teaspoonful each of cinnamon, 

One cup of raisins and currants, nutmeg and cloves. 

Mix the flour, soda, spices and suet together; add the molasses, fruit 
and water; steam three hours in a single mould, or one hour in small 
moulds; serve hot, with fruit sauce. 



46 TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 



OKANGE PUDDING. 

One cupful of bread crumbs, Yolks of two eggs, 

Juice and rind of one-half orange, Whites of four eggs. 
One-third cup of sugar, 

Cover the bread crumbs with milk; add the rind and juice of the 
orange and the beaten yolks of the eggs; beat the whites until stiff; 
add the sugar and beat and add to the mixture; bake in a buttered 
mould; set in a pan of hot water; bake until firm; serve with golden 
sauce. 

FRENCH BKEAD PUDDING. 

One cupful of bread crumbs, One saltspoonful of salt, 

Two cupfuls of milk, One tablespoonful of sugar, 

Two small eggs, One teaspoonful of butter. 

Scald the milk and pour it over the bread crumbs; separate the eggs 
and beat the yolks with the sugar; add to the bread crumbs; add salt 
and the butter, melted; pour into a buttered baking dish; set in a pan 
of hot water; bake in a moderate oven until firm; when cooked spread 
with jelly; beat the whites of -the eggs stiff; add two tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar and beat together; cover the pudding with the 
%ieringue and bake in a cool oven until nicely browned. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

One-half pound of prunes, One-quarter teaspoonful of salt, 

One pint of water, Juice of one-half lemon, 

One cupful of sugar, Six level tablespoonfuls of cornstarch. 

Wash the prunes and soak over night; simmer until tender; remove 
the pits; add enough water to the liquid to make two cupfuls; mix the 
cornstarch with the sugar; add to the prunes and cook fifteen minutes, 
stirring frequently; when cooked add the lemon juice and one-half tea- 
spoonful of almond extract; dip the mould in cold water and drain; 
fill with the pudding and set away to cool; serve cold with whipped 
cream. 

DELICATE PUDDING. 

Four level tablespoonfuls of corn- One and one-half cupfuls of boiling 

starch. water, 

One-fourth cupful of cold water, One-half cupful of sugar, 
Whites of three eggs, One teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Mix the cornstarch with the cold water; pour over it the boiling 
water and cook fifteen minutes; beat the eggs stiff; add the sugar and 
beat together; pour the hot starch over the egg and sugar and stir 
until smooth; add the vanilla; dip mould in water; fill with pudding; 
set on ice; serve with boiled custard made from the yolks of the eggs. 



PUDDINGS. 47 



BOILED CUSTAKD. 

One pint of milk, Three tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

Yolks of three eggs, One-half teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Scald the milk; beat the eggs and sugar together; pour the hot milk 
over the beaten egg ; cook until creamy ; add the vanilla and set aside to 
cool. 

CEEAM KICE PUDDING. 

One-fourth cup of rice, One tablespoonful of sugar, 

Two and one-quarter cupfuls of Saltspoonful of salt, 
milk, 

Wash the rice; add the milk, sugar and salt and allow it to come to 
the boiling point; simmer slowly and cook for two or three hours, 
stirring occasionally; when the rice is tender put on the grate in a hot 
oven and brown ; serve hot or cold. 

BREAD AND APPLE PUDDING. 

Four tart apples, Salt, sugar and cinnamon. 

Two slices of stale bread, 

Butter the baking dish; pare, core and slice the apples; soak the 
bread in cold water; put a layer of apples in the bottom- of the baking 
dish; sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and a little salt; put a layer ofc 
bread, another layer of apples and cover the top with stale bread 
crumbs; moisten with melted butter; bake in a moderate oven for half 
an hour; cover the first fifteen minutes; serve hot with lemon sauce. 

STRAWBERRY ROLY-POLY. 

Two cupfuls of flour, Half a teaspoonful of salt, 

Two teaspoonfuls of baking One-third cupful of butter, 

powder, Two eggs, 

One-fourth cupful of sugar, Two-thirds of a cupful of milk. 

Sift the flour, salt, baking powder and sugar together; rub in the 
butter; beat the eggs until creamy; add the milk to the eggs and beat 
together; mix thoroughly ; turn out on a well-floured board and roll into 
a sheet half an inch in thickness ; spread with the strawberries and dust 
with equal parts of sugar and flour; roll like a jelly roll; wrap in a 
napkin and steam from an hour to an hour and a half; serve hot with 
strawberry sauce. 

PRUNE SOUFFLE. 

One-half pound of prunes, Whites of six eggs, 

One-half teaspoonful of salt, Six tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Juice of one lemon, 

Wash and soak the prunes over night; stew until very soft; remove 
the pits and chop very fine; add the lemon juice; beat the whites of the 
eggs very stiff; add the sugar and salt and beat together; beat in the 
chopped prunes; put in buttered baking dish and bake in a cool oven 
thirty minutes; serve immediately, with creamy sauce. 



48 TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 

BAKED CORNMEAL PUDDING. 

Scald one pint of milk; moisten one and one-half tablespoonfuls of 
cornmeal with a little cold milk; pour over it the hot milk and cook in a 
double boiler for two hours, stirring frequently; then add one level 
tablespoonful of butter, one-half teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls 
of molasses, two eggs and one pint of cold milk; butter a baking dish 
and fill with the mixture; bake in a moderate oven one hour; set the 
baking dish into a pan of hot water. 



H Padding C3aQCes ^ 

tj ) 

GOLDEN SAUCE. 

One-third cupful of butter, One-third cupful of milk, 

One cupful of sugar (powdered), Grated rind of half an orange. 
Yolks of two eggs, . 

Cream the butter; add the sugar and cream together; then add the 
yolks of the eggs and orange rind; heat the milk scalding hot; pour 
onto the butter; cook until it thickens. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

One cupful of water, One-half cupful of sugar, 

Rind of half a lemon, One teaspoonful of cornstarch, 

One teaspoonful of butter, Juice of one large lemon. 

Mix cornstarch with sugar; cook sugar, water, cornstarch and rind 
of the lemon together for ten minutes; remove from the fire and add 
butter and lemon juice. 

WINE SAUCE. 

Cream one cupful of butter; add two cupfuls of powdered sugar and 
cream together; heat a cupful of wine and add slowly; cook over boil- 
ing water for two minutes. 

CARAMEL SAUCE. 

Cook together one cupful of sugar and one-fourth of a cupful of 
water; boil rapidly until it begins to brown; then stir until of a rich 
golden brown ; add one-half cupful of water and stir until smooth. 

BRANDY SAUCE. 

Cook one cupful of sugar and half a cupful of water for fifteen 
minutes; beat the yolks of three eggs and stir them into the boiling 
syrup; set the bowl into a pan of hot water and beat until it begins to 



PUDDIXG SAUCES. 49 



thicken ; add one tablespoonful of butter and the whites of three eggs 
beaten stiff; lastly add one-third of a cupful of brandy; stir thoroughly, 
and serve. 

HARD SAUCE. 

Beat half a cupful of butter to a cream; gradually add one cupful of 
powdered sugar and beat until creamy; flavor with one teaspoonful of 
any flavoring desired; beat the white of one egg stiff; add to the sugar 
and butter. 

FOAMY SAUCE. 

Beat butter and sugar together as for hard sauce ; add one-third of a 
cupful of boiling milk, gradually beating all the time; serve immedi- 
ately. 

FRUIT SAUCE. 

Cook one cupful of sugar, one tablespoonful of flour and one cupful 
of water together, for five minutes; add half a cupful of any kind of 
fruit juice; pour over one-half cupful of butter beaten to a cream. 

CARAMEL CUSTARDS. 

Three eggs, Two-thirds cupful of caramelized 

One pint of milk, sugar. 

Scald the milk; beat the eggs; pour the hot milk over the beaten 
egg; add the sugar; pour into buttered custard cups; set the cups in 
pan of hot water; bake until firm; serve with caramel sauce. 



Invalid 



BEEF TEA. 

Buy the top of the round for beef tea; it contains the most nutriment 
and is the best flavored; remove every particle of fat; cut the meat into 
very fine pieces; add one pint of water to each povind of beef; put into 
a glass jar and set the jar in a pan of warm water; do not heat the water 
above 110 degrees; let stand for two hours; strain through a strainer 
cloth ; season with salt, and serve. 

BROILED BEEF TEA. 

Broil a thick round steak for five minutes ; cut into small pieces and 
press out the juice; salt and serve, or if too strong add half a cupful of 
hot water. 



50 TWELVE LESSOXS IX SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 



OATMEAL GRUEL. 

Cover three tablespoonfuls of oatmeal with one quart of boiling 
water; add one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt; boil one hour; put into 
an oatmeal boiler and cook two hours; strain, and serve with cream 
and sugar. 

TOAST. 

Cut stale bread one-third of an inch in thickness ; remove the crusts ; 
place on the toaster on the back part of the stove, turning frequently 
until it is dry ; push to the hottest parts of the stove and brown nicely ; 
toast should be dry and crisp, not hard or soggy in the middle. 

TARVENCE CHICKEN CUSTARD. 

Scald together one cupful of chicken stock and one cupful of cream ; 
add slowly one and a half tablespoonfuls of Tarvence, and stir until 
smooth; beat the yolks of two eggs until creamy; pour the hot Tar- 
vence mixture over the beaten egg; return to the fire and cook until 
thickened; season with pepper, salt and a little celery salt; may be 
served hot or cold. 

EGGNOG. 

Beat the yolk of one egg until creamy; add one tablespoonful of 
sugar, one tablespoonful of wine or brandy and half a cupful of milk ; 
add the white of the egg, beaten to a stiff froth, and lastly a little nut- 
meg. 



NOTES ON CAKE MAKING. 

Have the bowl warm, the butter soft, sugar fine; use a wooden spoon 
for beating; never mix cake in tin; have pans perfectly clean; do not 
grease the pans; paper the bottom of the pan, and, for butter cakes, 
butter lightly the upper side of the paper. When baked slip a knife 
around the edges of the cake to loosen it; let stand in the pan until you 
can handle the pan without a holder; let butterless cakes stand in the 
pan until cold ; when a cake is nearly baked it will shrink from the sides 
of the pan. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

One cupful of egg white, One cupful of sugar, 

One-half a level teaspoonful of One cupful of flour, 

cream of tartar, One teaspoonful of almond extract. 



CAKE. 51 

To the eggs add a pinch of salt; beat for one minute; sift in the 
cream of tartar and beat until stiff; sift the sugar and beat into the 
eggs; add the flavoring; sift the flour five times before measuring it; 
fold it into the cake quickly and lightly; paper the pan; do not butter 
it; pour the mixture into the pan; cover and put into a cool oven; 
after half an hour remove the cover; bake an hour; when baked turn 
the pan bottom side up; if the pan has not feet, set something under the 
sides, so a current of air can pass under and over it; let stand until 
cold. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Make the same as Angel Cake, adding the yolks of five eggs, beaten 
' light. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Five eggs, One cupful of pastry flour, 

One cupful of sugar, Rind and juice of half a lemon. 

Separate the eggs; beat the whites until stiff; add the lemon juice; 
beat the yolks with a Dover egg-beater until creamy; add the sugar 
and grated rind of the lemon and beat together; add the whites, and 
lastly sift in the flour; line the cake pan with paper and bake in .a cool 
oven one hour; when done it will shrink from the sides of the pan; 
turn upside down and let stand in the pan until cold. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Three-fourths cupful of butter, Two-thirds cupful of egg white, 

One and one-half cupfuls of Three cupfuls of flour and three 

sugar, slightly roundingteaspoonfuls 

Two-thirds cupful of cold water, of baking powder, 

One teaspoonful of lemon juice One teaspoonful of almond and 

or one-fourth teaspoonful of mace extract (one-fourth 

cream tartar, mace). 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually and cream together; add 
the eggs unbeaten, one-half at a time, and beat together until light; 
add lemon juice; sift the flour before measuring; add water and flour 
alternately; mix the baking powder with the last half cupful of the 
flour and sift into the cake; beat thoroughly, and add the flavoring; 
beat the cake for five minutes after everything is added; bake in a 
moderate oven one loaf, fifty minutes. 

LADY'S CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, Two cupfuls of flour, 

One cupful of sugar, One teaspoonful of baking powder, 

Whites of eight eggs, One teaspoonful of almond extract. 
One teaspoonful of lemon juice, 

Cream the butter; add half a cupful of the sugar gradually and cream 
together; to the whites of the eggs add a pinch of salt; beat with a wire 
egg-beater until stiff; beat in the lemon juice and add the other half 



52 TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 

cupful of sugar and beat together; add to the creamed butter and 
sugar; sift and measure the flour; mix the baking powder with the last 
half cup; sift into the batter; beat the cake thoroughly after everything 
is added ; bake in a moderate oven fifteen minutes. 

LEMON QUEENS. 

One-half cupful of butter, Four eggs, 

One cupful of sugar, One-fourth teaspoonful of salt, 

Rind of half a lemon, One-fourth teaspoonful of soda. 

One tablespoonful of lemon One and one-fourth cupfuls of flour, 
juice, 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually and cream together; add 
the rind and juice of the lemon; add eggs, unbeaten, one at a time, 
and beat until smooth and light; mix the soda and salt with the 
flour and sift into the batter; bake in muffin pans thirty minutes in a 
moderate oven. 

PLAIN LOAF CAKE. 

Two-thirds of a cupful of butter, Three teaspoonfuls of baking 
One and one-third cupfuls of powder, 

sugar, One cupful of milk, 

Three and one-fourth cupfuls of One teaspoonful of orange and 

baking powder, vanilla extract (half and half). 

Four eggs, 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually and cream together; add 
the eggs, unbeaten, two at a time, and beat until perfectly smooth ; add 
the milk and flour alternately, mixing the baking powder with the last 
half cupful of the flour and sift into the cake; add the flavoring; bake 
in a moderate oven from forty to fifty minutes. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of brown sugar, One-half cupful of sour milk, 

Two cupfuls of flour, One level teaspoonful of soda, 

One-half cupful of butter, One teaspoonful each of nutmeg, 
Four eggs, cinnamon and cloves. 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually and cream together; add 
the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs; add the milk and flour 
alternately, mixing the spices and baking powder with the last half 
cupful of the flour; bake from thirty to forty-five minutes; ice with 
boiled icing,. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

One-third cupful of butter, One and one-half cupfuls of flour, 

One cupful of sugar, One and one-half teaspoonfuls of 
One-half cupful of milk, baking powder. 

Two eggs, 



CAk'K. 58 



Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually and cream together; add 
the eggs, unbeaten, and beat thoroughly; sift the flour and baking 
powder together; add the milk and flour alternately; bake in layers 
fifteen minutes in moderate oven. 

COCOANUT ICING. 

Beat the whites of two eggs stiff; add two cupfuls of powdered sugar 
and beat together; mix cocoanut with one-half the icing and spread 
between the layers; spread over the top and sides of the cake and 
sprinkle thickly with cocoanut on top and sides. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One-half cupful of butter, Two and one-third cupfuls of flour. 

One cupful of sugar, Two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 

Whites of five eggs, One teaspoonful of vanilla and 
One teaspoonful of lemon juice, lemon (half of each). 

One-half cupful of milk, 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually and cream together; add 
the whites of the eggs and lemon juice and beat thoroughly, then the 
flour and milk alternately; sift the baking powder with the last half 
cupful of flour; bake in two thick layers in a moderate oven twenty 
minutes; make an icing of one-third cupful of egg white, one and one- 
half cupfuls of confectioners' sugar, two ounces of unsweetened choco- 
late, one teaspoonful of vanilla; beat the sugar and whites of the eggs 
together for five minutes; cut the chocolate into small pieces and set in: 
a bowl over the teakettle; add the melted chocolate to the sugar and 
beat until it will pile up in the bowl when dropped from the egg-beater; 
put a thick filling between the layers and spread over the top and sides ; 
let stand until it hardens. 

POUND CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, One cupful of sugar, 

Five eggs, Two cupfuls of pastry flour, 

One teaspoonful of baking pow- One teaspoonful of extract vanilla, 
der, lemon and a few drops of mace. 

Cream the butter and gradually add the sugar and cream together; 
add the eggs, unbeaten, one at a time, beating at least three minutes 
between each egg; add the flour sifted, mixing the baking powder with 
the last half cupful of the flour; lastly add the extracts, beating the cake 
thoroughly; bake in a loaf in moderate oven fifty minutes; if baked in 
a sheet it may be cut in fancy shapes and iced with confectioners' icing. 

A white fruit cake is made by adding one cupful of stoned raisins 
or currants, or one quarter of a pound of citron, to the batter. 



54 TII'ELFE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 



FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound of butter, One pound of sugar, 

One dozen eggs, One pound of citron, 

Five pounds of raisins, Three pounds of currants. 

One cupful of molasses, One tablespoonful each of cinna- 

One pint of brandy, rnon, cloves, mace, allspice, 

One-half pint of wine, and nutmeg, 

One pound of flour, Two level teaspoonfuls of soda. 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually and cream together; beat 
the eggs until creamy and add to the butter and sugar, then add the 
molasses; sift the flour, soda and spices together and add gradually, 
beating thoroughly; stone and chop the raisins; chop the citron; add 
the fruit, wine and brandy and mix thoroughly; line a large pan with 
two thicknesses of heavy brown paper; butter lightly; bake in a mod- 
erate oven three hours. 

GINGERBREAD. 

Three cupfuls of flour, One-half cupful of lard or butter, 

One and one-half cupfuls of One egg, 

molasses, One-half teaspoonful of soda, 

One-half cupful of milk, One teaspoonful of ginger. 

Sift the flour and ginger together; add the molasses, milk, beaten 
egg, butter or lard softened; dissolve the soda in the milk; bake in a 
moderate oven; care must be taken not to have the oven too hot; 
molasses cakes burn more readily than other cakes. 

HOT WATER GINGERBREAD. 

One cupful of molasses, One tablespoonful of ginger, 

One teaspoonful of soda, One tablespoonful of melted butter, 

One-half teaspoonful of salt, Two cupfuls of flour. 
One-half cupful of boiling water, 

Mix the molasses, ginger, soda, salt, butter and boiling water to- 
gether; add the flour, sifted; bake in a hot oven twenty minutes. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

One cupful of boiling water, One cupful of flour, 

One-half cupful of butter, Four eggs. 

Put the water and butter in saucepan and boil slowly until the butter 
is melted; then add the flour and allow it to cook until it cleans from 
the sides of the pan, stirring constantly; when cool, add one egg at a 
time, beating it in thoroughly; drop, by small spoonfuls, on a buttered 
papered pan; bake in a moderate oven until puffed and crusty about 
thirty minutes ; when cold, cut on one side and fill with whipped cream, 
sweetened with powdered sugar and flavored with vanilla or with a 
filling made from "filling for Cream Puffs." 



CAKE. 55 

FILLING FOR CREAM PUFFS. 

Two cupfuls of milk, One-third of a cupful of flour, 

Three-fourths of a cupful of sugar, Two eggs. 
One teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Scald the milk; mix the sugar and flour together and beat into the 
eggs; pour hot milk over the beaten egg; cook in a double boiler until 
thickened, stirring constantly; when cool flavor with vanilla. 

FROSTING. 

White of one egg. One cupful of confectioners' sugar. 

Onetablespoonfulof lemon juice, 

Add the sugar gradually to the unbeaten white of the egg; when all 
the sugar is added beat in the lemon juice and one-half teaspoonful of 
vanilla; beat until it will pile up in the bowl when dropped from the 
egg-beater. 

BOILED ICING. 

One cupful of granulated sugar, One-fourth of a cupful of water. 
Boil the water and sugar together until it will form a soft ball when 
dropped in ice water; beat the white of an egg until stiff; pour the 
boiling syrup over the beaten white of the egg and stir until it thickens; 
flavor with any desired flavoring. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

Two squares of unsweetened One and one-half tablespoonfuls 

chocolate, milk, 

Three-fourths of a cupful of One egg. 

sugar, 

Scrape the chocolate; add the milk and sugar; cook until it boils; 
beat the egg light and creamy; pour the chocolate mixture over the 
egg ; cook one minute longer. 

JELLY ROLL. 

Four eggs, One-half of a cupful of powdered 

Three-fourths of a cupful of pas- sugar, 

try flour, 

Separate the eggs; beat the yolks until creamy; add the sugar and 
beat together; beat the whites until very stiff and dry and add to the 
yolks; sift into the flour and stir quickly; paper a large shallow pan; 
bake twenty minutes; while yet warm cut off the edges, spread with 
any kind of jelly and roll up; pin a towel around it and put in a cool 
place ; cut with a sharp knife. 

WAFERS. 

One-half cupful of butter, Two cupfuls of flour, 

One-half cupful of milk. One cupful of powdered sugar. 



56 TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 



Cream the butter and gradually add the sugar and cream together: 
add the milk and flour alternately and mix thoroughly: spread on a 
sheet iron or turn baking pans bottom side up and wipe very clean ; cut 
into squares when lightly browned and roll while hot ; the wafers must 
be cut and rolled as soon as it comes from the oven. 

COOKIES. 

One cupful of butter. Two cupfuls of sugar, 

Three cupfuls of flour, One egg, 

One-half teaspoonful of soda, One tables'poonful of milk. 

Cream the butter and gradually add the sugar and cream together; 
beat the egg until light; dissolve the soda in the milk; add to the 
creamed butter and sugar; then add the flour; roll thin; cut into round 
cakes and bake quickly : seeds may be added, or any flavoring to taste. 

CARAMEL FROSTING. 

One cupful of brown sugar. One ounce of chocolate. 

One tablespoonful of water, 

Scrape the chocolate; add the sugar and water: cook gently twenty 
minutes. 



4- Delicate Desserts 4> 

STRAWBERRY PUDDING. 

One-third of a box of gelatine, One and one-third cupfuls of straw- 
One-third of a cupful of cold berry juice, 

water, Juice of one lemon, 

One-third of a cupful of boiling Whites of two small eggs, 

water, Six tablespoonfuls of whipped 
One saltspoonful of salt, cream. 

Cover the gelatine with cold water; when softened add the boiling 
water and stir until dissolved; add the strawberry juice, lemon juice 
and salt; set away to cool until it begins to thicken; whip the eggs until 
stiff; add two tablespoonfuls of sugar and beat together; when the 
gelatine is slightly thickened beat with Dover egg-beater until light; 
add the whites of the eggs, and lastly the whipped cream; dip the 
mould in cold water and drain; fill with the mixture and set away to 
harden; do not use a tin mould; pineapple, grape, lemon, orange, cur- 
rant, raspberries, cherry, etc., may be used in place of strawberry: cut 
in slices and serve with cake. 



DELICATE DESSERTS. 57 



PIG PUDDING. 



One-third box of gelatine, One cupful of sugar. 

One-third cupful of cold water, White of one egg, 

One-third cupful of boiling water, One pint of whipped cream, 

Juice of one orange with water One-half pound of figs, 

enough added to make one Juice 'of half a lemon. 

and one-third cupfuls, 

Cover the gelatine with cold water and let stand until soft; cook the 
sugar and hot water to a syrup; pour the boiling syrup over the gela- 
tine and stir until dissolved; strain and cool; whip the egg; add cream 
to egg and stand the bowl in a pan of ice water; add the gelatine mix- 
ture and stir until it thickens; chop the figs and cover with the lemon 
juice; let stand while making the pudding; add figs to the pudding, and 
let stand on the ice until thickened. 

PEACHES IN JELLY. 

One-third box of gelatine, One-third cupful of sugar, 

One-third cupful of cold water, One and one-third cupfuls ^of 
One-third cupful of boiling peach liquid and water, 

water, Few drops of almond extract. 

Cut the peaches in slices; cover the gelatine with cold water and let 
soak until soft; cook the sugar with the boiling water and pour the hot 
syrup over the softened gelatine; strain and add the peach liquor and 
water, then the extract; let stand until it begins to thicken; peel and 
slice the peaches; put into a mould; pour the slightly thickened gela- 
tine over the peaches and set on ice until it thickens; serve with 
whipped cream. 

GINGER CREAM. 

One-third box of gelatine, One-fourth pound of crystallized 
One-half cupful of cold water, ginger, 

One-half cupful of boiling water, One pint of whipped cream, 

One cupful of powdered sugar, Whites of two eggs. 

Soak the gelatine in cold water until soft; add the boiling water and 
stir until dissolved; let stand until cold; whip the whites of the eggs 
until stiff; add the whipped cream; place the bowl in a pan of ice 
water; sift in the sugar; then add the gelatine and mix lightly; when 
thickening add the ginger, chopped fine and mixed with a little 
powdered sugar; dip an ice cream brick in cold water and drain; fill 
with the cream and let stand until thickened; cut in slices when 
serving. 

CHARLOTTE KUSSE. 

Three pints of whipped cream. One-half cupful of powdered sugar, 
One tablespoonful of gelatine, One teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Measure the cream after it is whipped; cover the gelatine with cold 
water and let stand until soft; add one-third of a cupful of boiling 



58 TWELVE LESSONS JN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 

water, stirring until dissolved; when cold strain into the cream care- 
fully, stirring all the time to prevent lumping; add the vanilla and stir 
until it thickens; line the cases or a glass dish with lady fingers; fill 
with the cream and set on ice until serving time. 

BAVARIAN CKEAM. 

One-third box of gelatine. One and one-half cupfuls of milk, 

One-half cupful of cold water, Eight tablespoonfuls of whipped 

Whites of three eggs, cream. 

Soak the gelatine in cold water until soft; scald the milk; pour the 
hot milk over the softened gelatine; whip the cream; whip the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth; add the sugar and beat together; set the 
bowl into ice water; stir the gelatine until it begins to thicken; add the 
beaten white of the egg, the cream and vanilla; stir until thickened; 
the gelatine will thicken very quickly after it begins, so the cream and 
egg must be added instantly; if the gelatine becomes too thick to mix 
smoothly set the bowl in a pan of hot water and stir until it liquifies, 
then add the cream and egg; mould; serve with cake. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

One-fourth of a box of gelatine, One half cupful of boiling water, 

One cupful of sugar, Juice of one lemon .with water 
Whites of three eggs, enough added to make three- 

One-half cupful of cold water, fourths of a cupful. 

Cover the gelatine with the cold water and let soak until soft; add 
the boiling water and stir until it dissolves ; beat the whites of the eggs 
stiff; add the sugar and beat together; add the lemon juice and water 
to the gelatine and let stand until cold; set the bowl into a pan of ice 
water; when it begins to thicken beat with Dover egg-beater until 
light; add the beaten white of the egg and beat until thickened; pour 
into a glass dish and set on the ice to harden; never mould food which 
contains acid in tin ; serve the pudding with a custard sauce made from 
the yolks of the eggs; three tablespoonfuls of sugar; one pint of milk; 
one teaspoonful of vanilla, one-half saltspoonful of salt; scald the milk; 
beat the eggs until creamy; add the sugar and beat together; pour the 
hot milk over the beaten egg and stir over the fire until creamy ; when 
cold add the vanilla. 

WINE JELLY. 

One box of gelatine, One cupful of cold water, 

Three cupfuls of boiling water, One pint of sherry, 
One pint of sugar, Juice of one lemon. 

Cover the gelatine with the cold water and let stand until softened ; 
add the boiling water and stir until dissolved; cook the sugar in one 
cupful of water five minutes; strain the gelatine into the syrup; add 
the wine and lemon juice; strain through a napkin and set on ice for 
six or eight hours. Orange, lemon, grape or any fruit jelly may 
be made in this wav. 



SHERBETS AND ICE CREAM. 59 



.0 C3t)erbet^ ^ Ice Cream H 

DIRECTIONS FOR FREEZING. 

Pour the mixture into the tin can ; put the beater in and put on the 
cover; put the can into the tub and see that the point on the bottom 
of the can fits into the socket in the tub ; put on the crosspiece and turn 
to see if everything is in place; break the ice very fine; put a layer of 
about four inches in the bottom of the tub, and then a layer of salt, 
using about three times as much ice as salt; put on another layer of ice 
and one of salt, and continue until the tub is full; turn the crank slowly 
until the cream begins to harden then turn rapidly for about ten minutes. 
It will be hard to turn when the mixture is frozen; wipe the salt and 
water from the cover; turn back the crosspiece and take off the cover 
without displacing the can; remove the beater and scrape the cream 
from it; pack the cream down; cover and cork the hole; put on the 
crosspiece and pack the ice tightly, adding more ice and salt; let stand 
two or three hours to ripen. To mould cream, fill the mould, pressing 
the cream into every corner; cover, seal by wrapping a piece of muslin, 
dipped in softened fat, around the mould where the cover and mould 
join; pack in ice and salt for an hour; cover the bucket with an old 
rug or piece of carpet. This prevent the ice melting rapidly. 

BRICK ICE CREAM. 

Freeze the cream without any flavoring; when frozen remove the 
dasher; set a bowl in a pan of ice wa^er; take about a pint of the frozen 
cream; mix it until it is creamy; add the flavoring desired; mix 
thoroughly and place in the bottom of the mould ; mix another portion 
of the frozen cream with a second flavoring and spread it on top; con- 
tinue until the mould is filled ; seal and pack in ice and salt for an hour 
or more. To remove it from the mould dip into pan of boiling water; 
remove instantly and turn out the cream; or wrap the mould in a towel 
dipped in hot water; cut in slices to serve. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

One pint of cream, One-half cupful of water. 

One cup of sugar, Two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 

Pinch of salt, 

Cook the sugar in the water for five minutes; add to the cream; add 
the vanilla; let cool and freeze. 



60 TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM. 

One pint of cream, A cupful and a half of caramelized 

One-fourth cupful of water, sugar. 

Boil one cupful of sugar with the water, without stirring, until it 
begins to brown; then stir until a golden brown in color; add one-half 
cupful of water and stir until dissolved. To the cream add the salt and 
caramelized sugar and freeze. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

One quart of berries, Half a saltspoonful of salt, 

Two cupfuls of sugar, Three pints of cream. 

Wash the berries ; add one cupful of sugar and the salt and let stand ; 
cook the other cup of sugar in half a cupful of water for five minutes ; 
add the syrup to the cream ; freeze the cream ; when nearly frozen wipe 
off the cover carefully and add the crushed fruit; mixing it thoroughly 
with the cream; finish freezing and pack. 

NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM. 

One quart of cream, Two cupfuls of sugar, 

One quart of milk, One-half saltspoonful of salt, 

Six eggs, Two tablespoonfuls of flavoring. 

Beat the eggs until creamy; add the salt; cook the sugar in a half 
cupful of water for five minutes ; scald the milk ; add the syrup and pour 
the hot milk over the beaten egg; cook over boilding water until 
creamy, but not curdled; when cool add the cream and flavoring; 
freeze. 

The addition of one tablespoonful of gelatine, softened with a little 
cold water and dissolved in the hot milk, makes the cream smoother 
and richer. 

NUT ICE CREAM. 

Almonds, walnuts, cocoanut or pistachio nuts, blanched and chopped 
fine or pounded to a paste may be added to any of the recipes for 
ice cream. Allow one pint of nuts to each quart of cream. 

MOOSE. 

One quart of whipped cream, One and one-half cupfuls of powdered 

Three teaspoonfuls of vanilla, sugar. 

Whip the cream stiff; drain; add the vanilla and sift in the sugar. 

Line ice cream mould with white paper; pour in the mixture; cover 
and seal the cover by dipping a piece of muslin, about one inch in 
width, into softened fat or grease; draw it tightly around the mould 
where the cover joins; fasten; pack the mould in a pail of ice and salt, 
using three times as much ice as salt; cover the pail with an old rug or 
blanket; let stand five or six hours; when taken from the ice and salt 
dip quickly into a pan of boiling water or wrap in a towel dipped in hot 
water; turn out the moose; cut in slices and serve with cake. 



SHERBETS AND ICE CREAM. 61 



NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

One pint of chestnuts, One pint of sugar, 

One pint of boiling water, One pound of French candies, 

One pint of almonds, One pint of cream, 

Yolks of six eggs, One pint of pineapple. 

One tablespoonful of vanilla, 

Shell, blanch and boil the chestnuts twenty minutes, or until soft; 
mash and rub through a sieve; blanch the almonds; chop fine and 
pound to a paste; boil the sugar and water together fifteen minutes; 
beat the yolks of the eggs until light; add to it the syrup; return to the 
fire and cook until it thickens; beat until cold; add the chestnuts, fruit, 
candies, almonds and vanilla, and freeze; pack and let stand two or 
three hours to ripen. 

To blanch almonds or chestnuts, shell the nuts and pour boiling 
water over them ; let stand two or three minutes ; then throw them into 
cold water; remove the skins. 

TO WHIP CREAM. 

Very thick or very thin cream will not whip; the former will turn to 
butter and the latter will make a liquid froth. 

Cream that will hardly pour should be deluted with equal quantity 
of milk before whipping. The cream should be icy cold. If you have 
riot a whipping churn the simplest way to whip cream is to pour into 
a deep bowl ; set in ice water and beat with a Dover egg-beater. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

One tablespoonful of gelatine, One pint of water, 
One pint can of pineapple, Juice of one lemon. 

One pint of sugar, 

Boil the sugar in a half cupful of water five minutes ; cover the gela- 
tine with cold water and let stand until softened; pour the hot syrup 
over the softened gelatine and stir until dissolved; to the pineapple 
add the pint of water and juice of the lemon; strain the dissolved gela- 
tine into the mixture and freeze. 

The whites of three eggs may be substituted in place of the gelatine, 
if desired. Any fruit juice may be substituted in place of pineapple. 

LEMON ICE. 

One quart of water, Two cupfuls of sugar. 

Juice of six lemons, 

Cook the sugar in one cupful of water five minutes ; add the quart of 
water and lemon juice and freeze. 

FRAPPE. 

Freeze a fruit ice to a mush and serve in sherbet glasses. 



62 TWELVE LESSONS IN SCIENTIFIC COOKERY. 



COFFEE. 

A mixture of one-third Mocha and two-thirds Java makes the best 
coffee; the Mocha is used for flavor and the Java for strength. Coffee, 
if bought ground, should be kept in an air-tight can ; if left open it will 
lose much of its delicious flavor. 

Coffee should not be boiled longer than one or two minutes; when 
coffee is boiled for a long time we lose from our beverage the delicious 
aroma which permeates the room, leaving the coffee bitter. Allow one 
tablespoonful of coffee, for each cupful. 

Four tablespoonfuls of finely One egg white, or two egg shells, 

ground coffee, Two cupfuls of boiling water. 

Two cupfuls of cold water, 

Have the coffee ground very fine (not pulverized); mix the dry 
coffee with the egg white; add the cold water and mix thoroughly; let 
come to the boiling point, slowly; boil one or two minutes; then add 
the boiling water and set on the back part of the stove where it will 
keep hot, but will not boil, for fifteen or twenty minutes ; serve with hot 
milk and cream. Do not boil, simply scald the milk; boiled milk gives 
an unpleasant flavor. The egg is used to clear the coffee. 

VIENNA COFFEE. 

To one-fourth of a cupful of hot milk add two tablespoonfuls of 
whipped cream; fill the cup with hot coffee. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Scrape fine an ounce and a half of chocolate; put into a saucepan 
with one tablespoonful of water; cook until smooth; add to it one 
quart of scalding hot milk; mix thoroughly and serve with whipped 
cream. If unsweetened chocolate is used #dd two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar. If chocolate is allowed to boil it becomes oily. 

TEA. 

In making tea an earthen teapot is best; fill the teapot with boiling 
water and let stand five minutes; empty, and put in the tea; allowing 
one teaspoonful for each cupful; cover with freshly boiled water and 
allow it to stand on the stove where it will keep hot, but will not boil, 
for five minutes. 

LEMONADE. 

Juice of three and grated rind of Half a cupful of sugar, 
one large lemon, Four cupfuls of water. 

Cook the sugar and grated rind of the lemon in half a cupful of water 
for five minutes; let cool; squeeze the lemons; add the syrup and the 
remainder of the water; strain and serve ice cold. 




DELICIOUS SALADS 



can only be made with 



RURE OLIVE: OIL 



For nearly two centuries the recognized 
standard for PURITY has been and to-day is 



CROSSE & BLACKWELL'S 



DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY. 



Stanford University, Cal., May j/, /{ 



Messrs. Sherwood r Sherwood, San Francisco, Cal. 

Gentlemen : At your request I have purchased in the open market a bottle 
of Crosse r Blackwcll's "Pure Lucca Oil," and after submitting the same to 
chemical examination I find it to be a PURE OLIfE OIL of good color and 
flavor. Yours -very truly, 

(Signed) CEO. M. RICHARDSON, 

Prof, of Chemistry. 



PACIFIC COAST AGENTS 



SHERWOOD S SHERWOOD 

PORTLAND SAN FRANCISCO LOS ANGELES 



CHALMERS' GELATINE 

IS PREPARED ESPECIALLY FOR FAMILY USE 

ABSOLUTELY PURE AND WITHOUT ODOR 

Requires no eggs to clarify and has no cloudy appearance when dissolved. 




Endorsed by such eminent authorities as Professor R. OGDEN DOHEMUS, New York, 
Professor H. L. BOWKER, Boston, Mass., who say 

CHALMERS' IS A PURE GELATINE AND THE BEST FOR FAMILY USE.' 



AWARDED FIRST PRIZE AT MECHANICS' FAIR. 



PACIFIC COAST AGENTS 



SHERWOOD & SHERWOOD 



PORTLAND 

SAN FRANCISCO 

LOS ANGELES 



" 



o 

So 



3 C -a 

Z . o 

>> o 

r DU 

S u , 

s +> 3 := 

2 C <*- 

< a M S 

1 " 4) 
cu jj -Q rt 

-8 n E 

2 5 O 

E * 



J n '5 es 
*~ c S- 1 cr, 

3c3 8 . '- 

U * O 

"S^JjSna 
S|3I| 

O *j tn >> 

B " <L> JO >H 



*j JS M S 

- *-; <u * c 

-a^-aws 



> . w H-S 

^ CO O *-* 

a S'^'a o. 

cct > C T3 

iS-^Ss 

2. ?i ^ n r 









C .* > 



U *3 od: 






35 =. 

a"s*. 



K 5 



Q 
0". 

1 
IL * 



S 


*& 

S 


KlSi 


tt 


> 






_ cy D ^-i 
<U tn >r n- p, 
3.0 rt x 


z 


ft 




CTJ 

^"H 
^^ 


o 


^flli 

0,0 a.y 

co ST 1 - " S 

f >!-. O*S 

rf|55 


UJ 



Ov 
CO 


rS 

^ 

oJ 

5C 


o 
tu 


o-gp 

c rt SS t S 1 j 

If1*sl 
H155 

ft ^ g c 
. 5 ^ u >^ 

" n en v< ^ 


a 

K 
h 






^ ^^ 


*j -ji: en CD o 






* ~\ 


^ * 


>-i^2^ > o 










fe 3 



President Bo 
perience with 
ending it as on 

ulu, H. I. 


ll'sd 

s -"foi-: 


found it excel 
es of gastric irri 
stomach will 
JS and easily dij 
ulu, H. I. Jc 


Z3 o 


v o"o3 


u n 4ij sr M 

> ^ X O O 


sill 


2 w co >,= 
co o a co o 
f- 1 '-g o ! S 


C3 O^w p 

* s '-55 

1-1 L * 3 "^ 


u.t2 


CO X. " 


o & a 



"3 S"3 





'!" a 


77 IF ^> 

p O C [d 


oF 




* rt S z 

> J B 
*J '" 4) ul 


||sl'-i^ 


l*tf 

iq-Sfe 

3 ij i 


W 


HSE .si 

Mg 

O)* 1 '5 % 


s--l!l^ 

O JS'O C< 


o-a P 
' 3 '- 

'B S x 


MONIA 


k|-o|H 

43 a CD ) U3 
*J CO >, 

<- I''!'' 8 J 

o w - 

en *-* e 


- .-o M^Q 

Iflfl 

"*; M 1- -13 

o - " iu 


2 >> 
a co 

J^fc 
S? 

11 


TESTI 


O S 

SJ-0&.8 

SJ^C* 

a S 

tn aj ^"C x 


iP|I 
lla|l - 


in > 

11 4J 

Is- 

?" d 

&-OO 
05 




ca ^-.^ aJ 


tU "^ rt ^j ^ 






*^ u (5 ** *flj 


1> O o * ^ 


* cj ej 




oj 4-* U ^ bJD 


*^ 2 ^*^ *** <-T 


co o 5 




fl *^2 ^ 


fjj o3 Q" x/| 


a 3 a 




2! |f* 


|?s|l 


S 

^5 




S-? S * 
"" fe 'C 









Hflog * 

gjgS ~ 

^3 C3 (_,' O 

S>ft *1 

c 01 " 



.2 o*; .a o 



*3 6 s 

*-> rr P-. d r/\ 

eg -g .X. cs H 

ti ca o 8 



HUMAN BUILDING 
MATERIAL 

Man is built out of the food he eats, and the body can be no 
better than the material that enters into its construction. 

If he eats unnatural food, he becomes unnatural, sickly, 
cross, inharmonious; he takes medicine and increases in un- 
naturalness. 

It is natural for man to be strong and vigorous, physically, 
mentally, morally, and nothing but natural food will make 
this condition possible. 

The most natural food is the food that nourishes each ele- 
ment of the body in proportion to its natural requirements. 
When Nature designed man, the same Intelligence provided the 
material suited to the requirements of the design, among 
which is the marvelously perfect food product, whole wheat. 

SHREDDED WHOLE 
WHEAT BISCUIT 

is whole wheat, and nothing but wholewheat; the wheat 
is merely shredded and cooked to make it easily digested and 
utilized. It contains all the elements with which Nature en- 
dowed it, to build up and maintain the complete human 
structure in a normal, symmetrical, perfectly balanced state. 



S! s 



One coupon in each package. Mail 5 to NEW ERA COOKING SCHOOL, 

Worcester, Mass., and receive a 
BEAUTIFUL COOK BOOK.. 



MUDG 




FOR 

CANNING 
FRUITS 
VEGETABLES 



"/> HOUSEHOLD NECESSITY." 



PA CI F,C COAST AGENTS, W. W. MONTAGUE &CO. 



SAN FRANCISCO 



SAN JOSE 



LOS ANGELES 



UCSB 




y- 3/ 

EA 



...SWEET SEMOLA... 

A peculiarly dainty and delicate 
dish for breakfast ; also excellent 
for pudding or pancakes, and un- 
equaled for breading fish or cutlets. 


USE 

...MORNING MEAL... 

for your morning meal. A most 

nutritious food, delightful to the 

palate and satisfying to the appetite. A favorite porridge 

(mush) for children. 




...PERFECTION PASTRY FLOUR... 

Made especially for 
pastry. No ordinary 
bread flour will make 
pastry that will com- 
pare with the pastry 
made from this flour. 
Do you want nice cake, 
short pie crust, or 
puffy, flaky yeast pow- 
der biscuits ? Use this 




PASTRY FLOUR 



flour. We do not recom- 
mend it for bread. No 
flour ca.n be the best 
for both pastry and 
bread. For pastry this 
flour is perfection. 

DEL MONTE 
MILLING Co., 

SAN FRANCISCO, CAL. 



...CREAM ELAKE OATS... 

The name is very appropriate. They are just like flakes of rich 
cream. If you like oats (and most people do) you can depend on 
having a treat when you eat Cream Flake Oats. 

--- 

...DEL MONTE SELF-RAISING BUCKWHEAT... 

Prepared from the choicest grain and 
materials. It makes a lighter cake, and 
the cakes have more of the buckwheat 
flavor than can be obtained from any other 
preparation in the market. Don't take 
our word, but try it. 







Buy a 

High-CL,/ 

Baking Powder 

only. Others are wasteful. A dol- 
lar's worth of ROYAL will make 
more food than a dollar's worth of 
any other kind, however low the 
price. 

XV.V^' j[ f\.\ ^ makes perfect food; always 
light, sweet and whole- 
some. Other powders lose their 
strength when opened and will not 
always leaven alike, sometimes 
actually spoiling the cake and wast- 
ing expensive flour, eggs and butter. 

ROYAL BAKING POWDER CO., 

NEW YORK. 



Gcrmea 





Cook Only 3 Minutes. 



