HOUSEHOLD 

ECONOMICS SEF^IES 




^ 



A TEXTBOOK 

OF COOKERY 






^^^^$^^ 




'=*^»p=^ 



EMinA p. EWING 



1^ 



Please 

handle this volume 

with care. 

rhe University of Connecticut 
Libraries, Storrs 



3 il53 002SMT20 M 



BY THE SAME AUTHOR 

THE ART OF COOKERY 

i2mo, buckram cloth, 377 pp., 800 recipes, 
100 bills of fare. I1.75. 

" I think you know more about bread-making than 
any other woman in the world." — Octave Thanet. 

" Worth its weight in gold to a young practical house- 
keeper. I shall be on the lookout to sing its praises." — 
Grace Greenwood. 

" One of the most practical of modem cook-books. 
It is clear, accurate, and very comprehensive."— Z>^«- 
ver {Col.) Republican. 

" One of the best things about the book is that it is 
adapted to the ordinary well-regulated home, and not 
much space is given to fancy dishes." — The Inter 
Ocean, Chicago. 

" The book is prepared on a solid basis of practical 
and theoretic knowledge, is well arranged and adapted 
to the requirements of American familiesof all grades.'' 
— The Independent, New York. 

" The author of this volume has furnished us an ad- 
mirable manual for use in the home and school. The 
subject is grasped in its wholeness, and every phase is 
touched briefly, clearly, and sensibly." — Zion's Herald, 
Boston. 

Flood & Vincent, Publishers, 

The Chautauqua-Century Press, MEADVILLE, PA. 



1bou6ebol& Economics Series 



A 

TEXT-BOOK OF COOKERY 

FOR USE IN SCHOOLS 



CONTAINING AN UNDERGRADUATE COURSE 
OF STUDY 



BY 

EMMA P. EWING 

Author of " The Art of Cookery.'' 



"Whatever you wish to introduce into the life of a nation, you must intro- 
duce into the schools."— i^ro.?d^/. 




MEADVILLE PENNA 

FLOOD AND VINCENT 

C!)E ^f)autauqua-(Cent«rp '^xzH 

1897 



Copyright, 1897, 
By Flood & Vincent 



The Chautauqua- Century Press, Meadville, Pa., U. S. A. 
Electrotyped, Printed, and Bound by Flood & Vincent. 



PREFACE. 

Household Economics — the science of the relation 
between efforts and satisfactions of a household — in- 
cludes the science of the relation between efforts and 
satisfactions in the culinary department of that house- 
hold. Consequently, cookery becomes a very important 
branch of household economics and should have as 
thorough study as any other branch of that science. 

The health and well-being of the different members of 
every family depend largely upon wholesome food, 
properly prepared, and the head of every family should 
have a knowledge of the physical needs of each 
member thereof, and understand how to meet them. 
It is not necessary for her to know how to prepare 
complicated dishes and costly compounds ; but it is 
necessary for her to know what food principles the 
crude materials contain, and how and in what propor- 
tion they should be grouped in a meal ; and also in 
what articles the material needed is to be had at the 
least cost. But, above all, it is important for her to 
know how this food should be cooked so as to develop 
and preserve its nutritive qualities, and to render it 
most appetizing and digestible. 

A thorough knowledge of how to select, prepare, and 
cook the daily rations of the people would vastly Im- 



iv Preface. 

prove the physical condition of the race, and greatly 
aid in the solution of some of the problems that to-day 
are causing a widespread feeling of anxiety among all 
classes of earnest men and women. 



CONTENTS. 

PART I.— FOOD : ITS PROPERTIES AND PREP- 
ARATION. 

Chapter. Page. 

I. Food 9 

II. Why We Cook Food 12 

III. Methods of Cooking 14 

IV. Methods of Instruction 19 

V. Suggestions to Teachers 22 

PART II.— AN UNDERGRADUATE COURSE IN 
COOKERY. 
First Term. 

Lesson. Page. 

I. Cooking 29 

II. Broiling 30 

III. Baking and Roasting 32 

IV. Boiling 35 

V. Boiling 38 

VI. Frying and Sauteing 42 

VII. Mixing 44 

VIII. Mixing 59 

IX. Mixing 60 

X. Mixing and Seasoning 64 

XI. Salads 66 

XII. A Luncheon 68 

Second Term. 

I. Broiling 69 

II. Roasting and Stewing 73 



vi Contents. 



Lesson. Page. 

III. Boiling 76 

IV. Steaming and Stewing 78 

V. Frying 80 

VI. Mixing 82 

VII. Mixing 85 

VIII. Mixing 87 

IX. Mixing 90 

X. Mixing and Seasoning 91 

XI. Mixing 94 

XII. A Breakfast 97 

Third Term. 

I. Broiling, Baking, and Mixing ... 98 

II. Baking 100 

III. Boiling 103 

IV. Boiling and Mixing 105 

V. Mixing and Frying 108 

VI. Mixing no 

VII. Mixing 112 

VIII. Mixing 114 

IX. Mixing 117 

X. Mixing 119 

XI. Ice Cream and Ices 121 

XII. A Dinner 122 

APPENDIX. 

I. Individual Proportions 125 

II. Utensils Required for Twelve Pupils 

IN a Classroom 127 

III. Reference Books for Teachers . . 129 



PART I. 

FOOD : ITS PROPERTIES AND PREPA- 
RATION. 



A TEXT-BOOK OF COOKERY, 



PART I -FOOD: ITS PROPERTIES AND 
PREPARATION. 



CHAPTER I. 

FOOD. 

"Food," says Professor Atwater, "is that which, 
taken into the body, builds tissue or yields energy. 
The most healthful food is that which is best fitted to 
the wants of the user. The cheapest food is that which 
furnishes the largest amount of nutriment at the least 
cost. The best food is that which is cheapest and most 
healthful." 

Professor Voit, of Munich, Germany, estimates that 
for the maintenance of bodily health a man at hard 
work requires daily 4 ounces of protein, 4 ounces of 
fats, and 18 ounces of carbohydrates. Taking into 
account the more active life in the United States, 
Professor Atwater suggests that, under similar con- 
ditions, a man needs 5 ounces of protein, 5 ounces of 
fats, and 18 ounces of carbohydrates. A man at mod- 
erate labor is supposed to require one ounce less of 
protein, one ounce less of fats, and two ounces less of 
carbohydrates. It is estimated that women require 



lo A Text-Book of Cookery. 

still less food, about 3f ounces of protein, 2\ ounces of 
fats, and 14^ ounces of carbohydrates. Children from 
seven to fifteen years of age require about 3 ounces of 
protein, if ounces of fats, and lof ounces of carbo- 
hydrates. 

Protein is the chief nutritive element of meat, fish, 
and eggs. The albumen of eggs, the casein of milk, 
and the gluten of wheat are protein compounds. These 
compounds are found in corn, beans, potatoes, and 
other vegetable food. They are sometimes called ni- 
trogenous compounds, because they contain the element 
nitrogen, which is not found in the other classes of 
food. The gelatinoids are the principal ingredients of 
meat tendon and similar tissues. The albuminoids are 
the chief ingredients of muscle. Another class of nitrog- 
enous substances in meat are called extractives. The 
term protein includes albuminoids, gelatinoids, and ex- 
tractives. The term proteids is sometimes used in 
place of protein. 

Fat is that which we get from meat in the form of 
tallow and lard, from milk in the form of butter. From 
vegetables we get olive oil, cottonseed oil, etc. Wheat 
and corn also contain oil. In fact, fat is found to some 
extent in most food materials. 

Starch and sugar are called carbohydrates. They 
are very similar in chemical composition. Starch in 
large proportion is found in rice, potatoes, wheat, and 
corn. Sugar abounds in many vegetables, as well as in 
fruits. 

Mineral matter is a constituent of meats and fish. It 



Food. 1 1 

is also found in smaller proportions in vegetables and 
fruits. When food materials containing it are burned 
it remains in the form of ash. 

Water is a large and necessary constituent of food 
material, varying indefinitely in quantity. But the 
water in food material has no nutritive value beyond 
any other water. 

These nutrients are used in the body in the following 
ways : Protein forms tissues (^muscle, tendon, etc., 
and fat) and serves as fuel. Carbohydrates are con- 
verted into fat and serve as fuel. The fats are used in 
building up the fatty tissues. They also serve as a 
concentrated form of fuel. And all yield energy in 
form of heat and muscular strength. Mineral matter is 
an essential ingredient of the bones. 



QUESTIONS ON CHAPTER I. 
What is food ? 

Name the principal constituents of food material. 
In what foods is protein most abundant ? 
Into what three classes are the protein compounds 

divided ? 
What are the two substances classed as carbohydrates ? 
What are the sources of fat ? 
In what foods are mineral substances found ? 
How is protein used in the body ? 
How are the carbohydrates used ? 
How are the fats used ? 



CHAPTER II. 

WHY WE COOK FOOD. 

Cooking produces various chemical and physical 
changes in food material. It renders the albumen of 
meat more or less firm, softens the connective gelati- 
nous tissues, and makes the meat more easy of mastica- 
tion and digestion. The starch in all vegetable food 
material exists in the form of granules. These are 
softened by heat and moisture, and thus are made ready 
to be acted upon by the digestive fluids. Starches are 
also sometimes changed, by cooking at a high tempera- 
ture, into dextrin, and sugar is similarly changed into 
caramel, which are more digestible forms of these foods. 

In the cooking of fats there is a softening of the 
cellular tissue and a slight separation of the glycerine 
from the fatty acids, thereby rendering them more 
easily available. 

We also cook food to give it warmth. Warmth 
increases the stimulating effect of food, and causes an 
increased supply of blood to the digestive apparatus 
and a greater secretion of digestive fluids. 

Cooking also destroys parasites and dangerous bac- 
teria, when the heat is sufficiently intense. 

But perhaps the most important of all changes in 
food material brought about by cooking is the develop- 
ment of flavor. Several eminent authorities hold the 



Wky We Cook Food. 13 

opinion that no food is ever perfectly digested and 
assimilated by the human system unless it be relished in 
the eating. 

Estimates for feeding people are based upon the 
amount of nutrients contained in the food material 
before it is cooked. In what degree cookery enhances 
or diminishes this food value is a problem so subtle and 
complex that few of even our best chemists have 
attempted to grapple with it. Yet all admit that the 
processes of cookery may destroy and eliminate the 
food value contained in the material in its uncooked 
state ; and that bad cookery may convert wholesome, 
nutritious food into a poisonous substance, and thus 
render it an agent of physical destruction instead of 
a power for recuperation. It is obvious, therefore, that 
it is of comparatively small importance to know what 
food the body requires, and the exact amount of each 
food principle contained in different materials, unless 
one knows how to prepare and cook those materials in 
such manner that they can be digested and assimilated 
by the user. 

QUESTIONS ON CHAPTER II. 

1. How does heat affect albumen? 

2. What effect do heat and moisture have upon starch ? 

3. Name four reasons for cooking food. 



CHAPTER III. 

METHODS OF COOKING. 

A METHOD of cooking is the particular manner of 
applying heat to food material to produce certain phys- 
ical and chemical changes therein, and to render it 
palatable, digestible, and nutritious. 

There are four primary methods of cooking : broil- 
ing, baking, boiling, frying. All other methods are 
merely nominal, being modifications, variations, or 
combinations of these four primary methods. The 
action going on within the article being cooked is very 
similar in character, whether it is being broiled, baked, 
boiled, or fried. But the flavor and digestibility, as 
well as the nutritive value of various articles of food, 
are very differently affected by the different methods of 
cooking. Every process of cooking can be classified 
under one or more of these four methods. The process 
by which the method is applied may be varied ; but 
the scientific principles which underlie the method 
must be observed. 

Broiling is the sudden searing and browning of the 
surface of food material. It may be done over a bed 
of hot coals, before a blazing fire, or above, below, or 
between blazing gas-jets. The surface of food material 
may also be seared by bringing it in contact with a 
heated surface of metal, like a griddle, or, under favor- 

14 



Methods of Cooking. 15 

able conditions, by heated air confined in an oven. 
These are distinct processes of broiHng, and all are cor- 
rect applications of the method if the principle of sudden 
searing and browning be observed. 

Baking is the cooking of food by dry heat : ( i ) by 
the application of heated air confined in a close com- 
partment, as in an oven ; (2) by bringing the food 
material in contact with a heated surface, as on a 
griddle ; (3) by roasting before a fire, as in toasting ; 
(4) by burying the food material in hot embers, or 
with heated stones ; (5) by placing the food material 
in a covered baking dish and surrounding the dish with 
steam or hot water. 

Baking and roasting are terms used interchangeably. 
The ancient method of roasting before an open fire is 
seldom practiced at the present time. 

Water is said to boil when it reaches a temperature of 
212°; and boiling is the cooking of food material in 
water and certain other liquids when, by the application 
of heat, these liquids reach the degree of temperature 
designated the boiling point. Steaming and stewing 
are modifications of boiling. 

Frying is the cooking of food material in oil or fat at 
a high temperature. The temperature of the oil or fat 
in which food is to be fried should be as high as the 
material to be fried will bear. 

Sauteing is a modified or less perfect process of fry- 
ing in which only enough fat is used to prevent the 
food material from adhering to the griddle or pan, while 
browning. 



1 6 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

In all these methods of cooking the exact degree of 
heat should be that best adapted to the perfect cooking 
of the most prominent food principle in the material to 
be cooked. 

In addition to the four primary methods of cooking 
there are two important subjects connected therewith 
which should be studied as such : mixing and season- 
ing. All culinary operations in the preparation and 
cooking of food can be classified under one or more of 
these six subjects : broiling, baking, boiling, frying, 
mixing, and seasoning. 

Mixing is the manner of manipulating and combining 
materials in the process of preparing food. Mixing, as 
a culinary subject, covers a broad field of work. It 
includes all manner of manipulations, from the delicate 
turning over and over of the fragile lettuce leaves in the 
salad bowl to the severe pounding of the beaten biscuit ; 
from the gentle folding of the feathery omelet souffle to 
the strong, brisk beating of batters and the vigorous 
kneading of bread. Mixing also includes the mingling 
of few or many, similar or diverse, ingredients in one 
mixture, as well as the various manipulations necessary 
under widely different conditions. Mixing necessarily 
infringes on the subject of seasoning, as the mingling 
together or mixing of differently flavored food materials 
is one important form of seasoning. 

The object of seasoning food is to develop, modify, 
or change its flavor, thus rendering it more palatable 
and nutritious. And with this object in view, salt, 
sugar, herbs, spices, extracts, condiments, etc., are 



Methods of Cooking. 17 

added to the food in such kind and proportion as are 
necessary to produce the desired result. If it be true 
that rehsh for food is a prominent factor in its perfect 
digestion and assimilation, seasoning becomes a subject 
of- paramount importance. Proper seasoning stimu- 
lates the natural flavor of the food material when weak 
and insufficient, tones it down when too pronounced 
and obtrusive, and modifies and changes it when the 
flavor is not desirable. We season food, therefore, for 
three reasons : ( i ) to bring out and develop the natural 
flavor; (2) to tone down, soften, and render less 
apparent the natural flavor ; (3) to disguise, change, 
and overcome the natural flavor. 

Salt is almost universally used in seasoning food. It 
seems to possess great power to bring out or develop 
flavor. That amount which brings out the finest flavor 
of a food is the proper amount to use ; and careful 
observation proves that the more delicate the flavor of 
the food the less salt is required. Some edibles are 
improved in flavor by having salt cooked with them, 
others by being salted when eaten. 

Sugar ranks next to salt in importance for seasoning 
food. It may be legitimately used in cooking food 
material that is of a poor quality, when such material, at 
its best, contains a greater percentage of sugar. Sweet 
corn, green peas, onions, and beets are prominent 
examples. The sugar should be added when the 
material is put to cook. A small quantity of sugar 
may be used with salt in the seasoning of fresh pork 
and veal. One third as much sugar as salt sifted 



l8 A Text-Book of Cookery. 

together and sprinkled upon either veal or pork just be- 
fore cooking enriches the flavor. Many fruits are over- 
sweetened. Too much sugar destroys the fine flavor of 
the fruit. In sweetening most cooked fruits the sugar 
should be added just before removing from the fire. 

The use of decided flavors, such as spices and 
pungent herbs, should be generally avoided in the first 
cooking of meats, poultry, vegetables, and all food 
material, when the natural flavor is delicate and desira- 
ble. Most foods are richest in flavor when freshly 
cooked. Cold meats are appropriately served with 
pungent or spicy sauces, and reheated meats may be 
stimulated in flavor by condiments or sweet herbs. 

The fact should never be lost sight of that we season 
food to render it more palatable, digestible, and nu- 
tritious ; not to give the taste of the seasoning to the 
food, but to render finer and more potent the flavors of 
the edible seasoned. 

Food preparations, such as cakes, creams, and whips, 
should be carefully flavored, as the fine flavor they 
should possess is the chief reason for their being. 

QUESTIONS ON CHAPTER III. 

1. What are the four primary methods of cooking ? 

2. Why is broiling put first ? 

3. What is the underlying principle of broiling ? 

4. How many distinct processes of broiling are there ? 

5. In how many ways may heat be applied in baking ? 

6. What is boiling ? 

7. How does the method of frying differ from that of boiling ? 



CHAPTER IV. 

METHODS OF INSTRUCTION. 

For various reasons the six culinary subjects should 
be arranged for study in the order here given : ( i ) 
broiHng ; (2) baking ; (3) boiHng ; (4) frying ; (5) 
mixing ; (6) seasoning. 

According to the best ethnological students, broiling 
was the first method of cooking practiced by our 
earliest ancestors. There is little doubt that this was 
the first method, because it is the simplest process of 
cooking food, and can be perfectly performed without 
habitation or cooking utensils of any sort, fire being the 
one necessary adjunct. These same delvers into an- 
tiquity assert that baking and roasting were the 
methods next put into practice, which was done by 
placing the food before the fire, or by burying it in hot 
embers. No food was cooked by boiling until human 
ingenuity had constructed a rude vessel to hold water, 
the heating of which was effected by the addition of 
hot stones. 

Frying is a comparatively modern method, and in its 
simplest operations is only the substitution of oil or fat 
for water or other liquid. 

The arrangement of culinary subjects in the order 
given in the accompanying ' ' Undergraduate Course in 
Cookery" (Part II.) is the result of much thought, 



20 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

research, and experimental work in teaching cookery. 
The writer is convinced that it is a serious error to 
begin instruction in cooking with complex methods 
where many problems are involved, as in boiling, 
rather than with a simpler method (broiling), where 
the student has only to consider the effect of dry heat 
upon the food material to be cooked. 

Not only is broiling the simplest method of cooking 
with which we have to deal, but it is the first step in the 
second method, that of roasting or baking, and natu- 
rally leads to its consideration. 

Having well considered and thoroughly compre- 
hended the scientific principles involved in broiling and 
baking, one is better prepared to grapple successfully 
with those of boiling, in which questions of a more 
complex nature arise, such as the constituents of water, 
the different effects of these upon food materials of 
various kinds, the effect of climate in determining at 
what temperature water boils, etc. Having mastered all 
these questions by discovering the scientific solution, 
the student will readily understand why fat or oil can be 
made hotter than water, and why for that reason frying 
may be one of the best and most hygienic methods of 
cooking food. 

The study of frying as naturally follows that of boiling 
as roasting that of broiling. And as frying is a very 
convenient and appetizing method of preparing many 
articles of food it should receive careful consideration. 

Mixing is a very complex subject, and it is not easy 
to determine just where to begin its classification and 



Methods of Instruction, 21 

study. However, it seems best to begin with the 
simplest manipulations and mixtures, and gradually- 
advance to the mixing which becomes mingling and 
compounding, and naturally introduces seasoning, a 
distinct and most important culinary subject. 



CHAPTER V. 

SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERS. 

In the arrangement of the course of study herein 
presented great care has been taken that the pupil 
should be led, step by step, from the simplest methods 
and processes to those more involved and complex. It 
is recommended that when a method of cooking is 
first presented, the teacher shall make plain the prin- 
ciples involved in that particular method. Where any 
food material is brought before the class for the first 
time, reference should be made to the food chart, and 
the pupils be clearly shown its important food con- 
stituents. The prepared analyses of food material will 
give a still better idea of food constituents than the 
food chart and should be used frequently. In those 
the actual food material, separated into its various 
constituents and in its exact proportions, is before the 
pupil. It is something very tangible, and makes a 
deeper impression than mere drawings. 

It is highly important that the pupils learn the effect 
of heat, or of heat and moisture, upon different food 
constituents, and how the different methods of cooking, 
when applied to these constituents, prepare them for 
the various processes of digestion. 

In the second lesson a fine opportunity is given for 
such instruction, in the broiling of beef and the toasting 



Suggestions to Teachers. 23 

of bread. And an equally favorable one occurs in the 
third lesson of the first term, in the roasting of beef and 
the cooking of potatoes in various ways. 

At the first presentation of a new subject, whether it 
be .a method of cooking or a manipulation of food 
material, it is recommended that the teacher demon- 
strate every step of the process, so the pupil may see 
the work performed in the best manner before attempt- 
ing to do it. Even so simple a process as paring an 
apple or a potato should be properly taught. 

It is also recommended that but a single subject be 
under consideration at one time, and that every pupil 
in the classroom give close attention to that one subject. 
Individual practice should be given, but it should be 
that of most practical value. Very small divisions may 
be best for children and industrial-school work, where 
material is of more value than time and where the pupil 
needs practice in simple addition and subtraction. But 
for grown-up, well-educated people to divide an ^^^ 
into half a dozen portions before cooking seems ques- 
tionable economy. 

The group method of practice is recommended when 
a class is large. But not more than four pupils should 
work in a group, and group No. i should follow the 
demonstration given by the teacher — each member of 
the group doing all the work, and completing the 
article or dish while the teacher and the other pupils 
observe the process. Then group No. 2 might go 
through the same formula, if a difficult one, while the 
first and third groups observe. A slight change or 



24 A Text-Book of Cookery. 

variation might be introduced into the second and 
third group practice, if the formula were simple. 

The three puddings in Lesson X., first term, are 
an illustration of this suggestion. Great confusion 
arises when different members of a class are permitted 
to prepare different dishes at the same time. Each 
pupil tries to see what is being done in the way of 
preparing some other dish than the one she herself is 
working upon. Consequently she obtains only an im- 
perfect knowledge of the dish she is preparing, and a 
still more imperfect knowledge of that which her 
neighbor prepares. ' * One thing at a time, and that 
done well," is as applicable to the cooking as to the 
kindergarten class. 

When pupils become familiar with the scientific prin- 
ciples which underlie simple methods of cooking and 
have learned to apply them in the simpler processes of 
broiling, baking, boiling, and frying, the teacher may, 
at her discretion, and in harmony with the accompany- 
ing course, group different subjects in one lesson ; or 
even permit the pupils to do original work by com- 
bining two or three simple preparations into one more 
complex and elaborate, at the same time requiring the 
pupil to give the scientific reasons for such combina- 
tions and mixtures. To make a new dish at the present 
time is a doubtful benefit, and when a good reason for 
mixing different food materials cannot be found, it is 
safest to abstain from mixing them, lest the result be an 
incongruous mess. 

The time allowed for each lesson is two hours. This 



Suggestions to Teachers. 25 

does not include time consumed in washing dishes or 
taking notes, and it is recommended that the pupils be 
not required to take notes, but that printed formulas be 
given them at the close of the lesson. For convenience 
in giving the lesson the formulas should be upon the 
blackboard or on a large cardboard, hung so that every 
pupil can see it easily. Only one formula should be 
visible at a time. If the teacher gives more than one 
lesson a day, she should have an assistant to prepare 
things, so that as far as practicable the work performed 
by the pupils shall be instructive labor in the strictest 
sense. Should it be found difficult to give the whole 
lesson within the two hours, final formulas can be 
omitted, as the most important instruction comes 
earliest in the lesson. The lessons are so arranged 
that when the time allotted to the cooking class is only 
one hour, the first half of the lesson can be given and 
the remainder constitute the following lesson, in which 
case this course of study could occupy two years, 
instead of being given in one year. Such lessons as 
cannot be confined to an hour — bread-making and a few 
others — might be especially arranged for. 

To do the best work, the teacher of cookery should 
be broadly educated and possess a knowledge of all 
related sciences. But it is well for her to remember 
that her specialty is the teaching of cookery, and that 
chemistry, physiology, and hygiene are special studies 
which enter incidentally into her work, as do also 
biology, botany, agriculture, geography, physics, etc. 
All that is positively known in regard to food principles 



26 A Text-Book of Cookery, 

or constituents can be taught incidentally, at the best 
time for its comprehension, as indicated in the course of 
study. Incidentally, also, the results of much chemical 
and physiological research upon the subjects of eco- 
nomic and hygienic living can be brought before the class. 

By frequent reference to meat charts — diagrams of cuts 
of meats — and the food material handled in the lessons, 
much valuable instruction can be given in marketing. 

The proper use and care of cooking utensils is best 
taught from day to day by insisting upon their proper 
use and proper care. To devote one or two lessons to 
this subject as a whole, before the utensils are brought 
into use, is of doubtful value. 

The use of wooden spoons for stirring all manner of 
food mixtures is strongly urged. The fact that by their 
use a nerve-distressing clatter is avoided is, perhaps, 
the least of the many things to be said in favor of them. 

All measures should be level or liquid measure. Such 
measures secure more exactness and also a saving of 
time. It takes longer to round carefully a spoon with 
flour or salt than to measure it level full twice. 



PART II. 

AN UNDERGRADUATE COURSE IN 
COOKERY. 



PART II -AN UNDERGRADUATE COURSE 
IN COOKERY. 

FIRST TERM. 

LESSON I.— COOKING. 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Explain reasons for cooking food. 

2. Give methods of cooking food. 

3. Explain sources of heat. ' Natural and artificial. 

4. Give the composition of fuels. ^ 

5. Give the forms of matter. Changes of the forms 

of matter through chemical action by which heat 
is liberated. 

6. Define air. Its composition. Active principle. 

7. Define the four simple substances found in foods : 

carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen. 

8. Explain how the heat of the body is maintained. 

9. Illustrate with candle the necessity of air for com- 

bustion. 

10. Explain drafts. Construction of stoves. 

11. Give the principles involved in the building of fires. 

Instruction in the management of fires. 

12. Give instruction in measuring. Use of utensils in 

desk. 

13. Give instruction in washing dishes. 

1 Youmans's " Handbook of Household Science," p. 17. 

2 Youmans's " Handbook of Household Science," p. 49. 

29 



30 A Text-Book of Cookery. 

LESSON II.— BROILING. 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Give instruction in the method of broiling/ 

2. Show the food principles contained in beef.^ The 

important constituent albumen. 

3. Show the effect of heat upon albumen.^ Illustrate 

by white of egg. 

4. Broil steak by open fire.'' 

5. Broil Salisbury steak on griddle.^ 

6. Have pupils broil Salisbury steak. 

7. Broil bread. Show difference in the application of 

heat to the albumen of beef and the starch of bread. ^ 

8. Have pupils toast bread. 

Formulas for Lesson IL 

To Broil a Steak. — Trim neatly by removing with a 
sharp knife the outer skin and superfluous fat. Fill the 
broiler compactly, after greasing it, adjusting the meat 
to the size of the griddle-hole of the stove. Hold close 
down to the coals or blaze an instant until the under 
surface of the meat is seared. Turn and sear the other 
side in a similar manner. Then, by frequent turnings, 
allow the inside to cook gradually and the outside to 
brown nicely without becoming hardened. The intense 

1 M, Williams's " Chemistry of Cookery," Chapter V, 

2 " Meats : Composition and Cooking." Bulletin No. 34, United States De- 
partment of Agriculture. 

3 M. Williams's "Chemistry of Cookery," Chapter III. 

4 Mrs. Ewing's " The Art of Cookery," p. 36, 
6 Mrs. Ewing's " The Art of Cookery," p. 41. 
6 Mrs. Ewing's " The Art of Cookery," p. 40. 



Broiling. 3 1 



heat applied to the under surface of meat in broiHng 
drives the juices toward the opposite surface, and unless 
the broiler is turned frequently enough to keep both 
surfaces well seared the juices will be forced out and the 
meat rendered dry, tough, and innutritious. 

Salisbury Steak. — Chop or grind lean round steak 
very fine, form into cakes, like sausage, and brown on 
both sides on a griddle or in a spider. Lift to a warm 
platter, and season with salt, pepper, and butter. 

Toast. — When a slice of bread is placed near a clear 
fire it gradually browns or toasts. The same method of 
cooking that is termed broiling when applied to meats 
is termed toasting when applied to bread. Broiling 
must therefore be varied somewhat in its application to 
different articles. The heat applied to a steak when 
first put to broil cannot be too intense, for the best 
results are obtained when the surface is seared or 
cooked instantly. But in toasting or broiling bread 
this is not the case. The application of heat to the 
slice of bread in order to toast it properly should be 
gradual, as the object is not to shut in the moisture 
which the bread contains but to drive it out and gradu- 
ally dry and brown the surface of the bread. Bread is 
toasted to divest it of moisture, as well as to brown and 
give it a peculiar flavor. Toasting converts the insoluble 
starch in bread into a soluble substance called dextrin, 
which after being moistened by the saliva is easily di- 
gested. For this reason bread properly toasted agrees 
better with weak stomachs than any other kind of bread. 

To Toast Bread. — Cut the bread in even slices about 



32 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

half an inch in thickness. SHghtly dry them in the 
oven, or before the fire. Put each slice on a toasting 
fork, or in a wire broiler, and hold it before or over a 
clear bright fire of coals, but at a sufilicient distance 
from them to allow it to brown evenly without burning. 
When the surface of one side becomes a rich golden 
color, turn and toast the other side in a similar manner. 
Serve in a toast rack, or on a warm plate. Do not 
pile the slices on each other, or they will lose their 
crispness and flavor. 

LESSON III.— BAKING AND ROASTING. > 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Explain various ways of applying heat in baking. 

2. Review briefly the effect of heat upon albumen. 

3. Refer to charts to show the various cuts of meat 

used in roasting. 

4. Prepare and put to roast a two-rib, short cut of beef.^ 

5. Grate a potato and remove the starch. Cook the 

starch and explain how heat and moisture affect 
starch granules. ^ 

6. Have pupils prepare and bake potatoes. 

7. Have pupils prepare and bake apples in the skin. 

8. Have pupils pare and bake apples. 

9. Make roast beef gravy. 

10. Carve and serve small portions of the beef with 
platter gravy ; also with the made gravy. 

1 " The Art of Cookery," pp. 46-48. 

2 •' The Art of Cookery," p. 49. 

3 Youmaiis's " Handbook of Household Science," pp. 213, 279. 



Baking and Roasting. 33 

Formulas for Lesson III. 

To Prepare a Roast of Beef. — Remove the outer 
skin, and with a moist cloth wipe the surface on the 
inside of the cut wherever it has been exposed to dust. 
Do not remove the bones. 

To Roast Beef. — Place the clean-cut side of the meat 
upon a smoking hot pan. Press it close to the pan 
until seared and slightly brown. Reverse it and let the 
opposite side become similarly seared and brown, then 
put it at once into the oven, the heat of which should 
be the same as for bread (370°), and leave it undis- 
turbed till cooked. If the oven is not too hot the meat 
will require no basting. But when the meat is taken 
from the pan one cup of water should be added to the 
drippings therein for making gravy. When the tem- 
perature of the oven is correct and the cooking is 
going on properly the meat will keep up a gentle 
sputtering in the pan. If, however, smoke should be 
discernible in the oven the heat is too intense and 
should be lessened. 

For roasting beef in this manner, after it has been 
seared, fifteen minutes should be allowed for each inch 
in thickness of the roast, without regard to its width or 
weight. 

To Prepare Potatoes. — If the potatoes are to be 
baked or boiled in their skins, wash clean, using a small 
brush to scrub them with, and remove, with a knife, all 
specks or blemishes. In paring potatoes use a small, 
thin-bladed, sharp-pointed knife. Drop the potatoes as 
soon as pared into cold water, and let them remain there 



34 A Text-Book of Cookeiy. 

until needed for cooking. This keeps them from ex- 
posure to the air, and prevents their becoming dis- 
colored. 

To Bake Potatoes. — Put the potato in an oven of 
moderate temperature and subject it to a gradually in- 
creasing heat, until the inside is thoroughly cooked and 
the skin has assumed a light brown color and a firm 
consistency. When baked potatoes are taken from the 
oven a gash about an inch in length should be made 
lengthwise in each potato, and the ends should then be 
pressed, to widen the gash and permit the steam to 
escape. 

To Bake Apples, No. i. — Select apples of a uniform 
size, remove the center of the blossom end and any 
specks, wash and rinse in clean water, place, stems 
upward, in an earthen or granite-ware baking dish, 
pierce in several places with a fork, and put in an oven 
at the temperature required for bread. When perfectly 
baked the skins will be brown and the flesh soft and 
rich in flavor. 

To Bake Apples, No. 2. — Pare and core the apples, 
leaving them whole, rinse in cold water, and place close 
together in a baking dish, the bottom of which has been 
well greased with butter and lightly sprinkled with 
granulated sugar. Sprinkle sugar over the apples and 
bake in a hot oven until they are a rich brown color. 
Unless the apples are very tart and juicy they should, 
when put to bake, be covered for about ten minutes. 

Roast Beef Gravy. — Cook together until brown one 
tablespoonful each of butter and flour, add one cup of 



Boiling. 35 



water from the roasting pan, after it has been strained 
and skimmed of grease, and simmer five minutes. 
Serve with the roast beef. 

LESSON IV BOILING/ 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Explain boiHng of water. Use thermometer.^ 

2. Prepare and put to cook a leg of lamb or mutton. 

3. Refer to charts for cuts and constituents of mutton. 

4. Boil an ^^<g properly and one improperly. 

5. Make soup stock. ^ 

6. Give instruction in the preparation and cooking of 

potatoes, cabbage, turnips, and carrots. 

7. Have pupils prepare and cook these vegetables. 

8. Show by reference to food chart the different pro- 

portions of the food principles in the various 
articles cooked. 

9. Give demonstration in the cooking of rice. 

10. Make a broth from the lamb or mutton liquor 

with rice and parsley. 

1 1 . Make drawn butter sauce. 

12. Show how a leg of lamb or mutton should be 

carved. 

Formulas for Lesson IV. 
To Prepare a Leg of Lamb or Mutton. — The outer 
skin should be carefully removed from both mutton and 

1 " The Art of Cookery," pp. 65-68. 

2 *' Chemistry of Cookery," p. 8. 

^ " The Art of Cookery," pp. 100-102. 



36 A Text-Book of Cookery. 

lamb before they are cooked. This is more important 
in the preparation of mutton and lamb than in the 
preparation of other meats, as they are liable to have 
an unpleasant, woolly flavor when boiled or roasted 
with the skin unremoved. 

To Boil a Leg of Lamb or Mutton — Put the lamb or 
mutton in a kettle of boiling water, slightly salted, 
and cook until tender. When sufficiently done take 
from the kettle and place on a platter. Serve with 
drawn butter. 

To Boil an Egg. — Pour a pint of boiling water into a 
small sauce-pan or other vessel, put the ^^"g in it, cover 
closely, place it where it will keep hot, and let stand 
for about six minutes. An ^gg so cooked will be evenly 
done all through without being hard, semi-raw, or 
slimy, and will be tender, delicate, and delicious. A 
pint of water should be allowed for each Qg<g. 

To hard-boil an ^gg put it in a pint of boiling water 
and let it remain there twenty minutes. This will 
render the yolk dry and mealy. Or put the ^gg in 
cold water, bring to the boiling point, and let the ^%g 
remain in it for fifteen minutes. 

Soup Stock. — To make soup stock, put into a kettle 
or digester, in cold water slightly salted, meat of any 
kind cut in small pieces, or meat and bones well cut 
and broken, heat the water gradually until it reaches 
the boiling point, then keep it simmering continuously 
until the juices of the meat are all extracted. When 
meat and bones are well cut and broken up, all their 
valuable properties can, by proper cooking, be ex- 



Boilhig. 37 



tracted in four or five hours. After simmering that 
length of time the kettle should be taken from the fire, 
and the stock strained through a colander into an 
earthen bowl. 

To Boil Potatoes — To boil either pared or unpared 
potatoes, put them in a liberal allowance of slightly 
salted boiling water, and keep them cooking gently 
until tender enough to be pierced easily with a fork. 
Drain off the water, sprinkle a little salt over the pota- 
toes, cover with a towel or napkin, and set the kettle 
containing them back on the range where they will dry 
off and keep warm. A medium-sized potato will boil 
in twenty-five minutes. 

To Boil Cabbage. — Trim, wash, and divide each head 
of cabbage in quarters or eighths, boil till tender, drain, 
press out the water, and serve with drawn butter. 

To Boil Turnips. — Wash and pare the turnips, boil 
till tender, drain in a colander, press out the water, 
mash fine, and season with salt, pepper, and butter. 

To Boil Carrots. — Wash, scrape, boil till tender, 
drain, season with butter, salt, and pepper. 

To Wash Rice. — Pick over the quantity of rice 
needed, put it in a bowl, cover with tepid water, lift in 
the hands and rub the kernels briskly against each other 
to remove the starch. Rinse in cold water several 
times, or until the water ceases to look milky, then 
drain and put at once to cook. 

To Boil Rice. — Put a cup of prepared rice into two 
quarts of boiling water and let it cook rapidly without 
stirring for fifteen or twenty minutes, or until it becomes 



38 A Text-Book of Cookery. 

so tender that the grains can be crushed between the 
fingers into a smooth paste. Then drain in a sieve or 
colander, return to the vessel in which it was cooked, 
and set on the back of the range to dry off. 

Mutton Broth. — To four cups of mutton stock add one 
cup of boiled rice and one tablespoonful of minced pars- 
ley. Simmer five minutes, season to taste, and serve. 

Drawn Butter. — Cook together until well mixed one 
tablespoonful each of butter and flour, add one cup of 
water or broth, simmer five minutes, then add another 
tablespoonful of butter. Season and serve. 



LESSON v.— BOILING. 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Prepare veal for stewing. 

2. Cook macaroni. 

3. Make beef tea. 

4. Give instruction in use of double boilers and in 

cooking cereals.' 

5. Have pupils cook rolled wheat, rolled oats, corn- 

meal mush. 

6. Have pupils stew apples. 

7. Make three gravies, plain, white, brown. 

8. Make tea and coffee.^ 

Formulas for Lesson V. 
To Stew Veal. — The ribs, breast, and thin pieces 

1 " The Art of Cookery," pp. 74-77. 

2 " The Art of Cookery," pp. 77-78. 



Boiling. 39 



containing a good deal of fat are the most desirable 
portions of veal for stewing. Remove the outer skin 
from one and one half pounds of veal, cut the meat in 
pieces suitable for serving, put it in a sauce-pan, add a 
teaspoonful of salt and hot water enough barely to 
cover the meat. Cover the sauce-pan closely and let 
the meat cook slowly for three or four hours, or until 
tender, then drain the broth from it, remove the grease 
from the broth, add hot water, if necessary, to make 
three cups of the broth, and make a plain gravy. 

To Boil Macaroni. — Break the macaroni in pieces 
any length desired, put into well-salted boiling water, 
cook an hour, or until tender enough to be mashed 
easily with the fingers, then drain in a colander. 

Beef Tea. — For making beef tea a cut from the 
round is preferable on account of its juiciness, and care 
should be taken to have it as fresh as possible ; and in 
preparing it the skin and fat should be all removed and 
the meat cut in small pieces. It should then be put in a 
kettle or sauce-pan, barely covered with cold water, 
slightly salted, heated to the boiling point, and strained 
through a colander. It is then ready for use. 

To Cook Cereals. — Fill the outside boiler about two 
thirds full of boiling water, set the inside boiler or kettle 
in it, put the proper quantity of boiling liquid in the 
inside kettle, add the requisite amount of salt, and 
sprinkle in the grain or meal, stirring slowly until it 
swells or thickens enough to keep it from settling on 
the bottom of the kettle, then cease stirring, cover 
closely, and let it simmer until thoroughly cooked. 



40 A Text-Book of Cooke7y. 

Very few cereals can be cooked properly in less than an 
hour. Most of them require two or three hours' cook- 
ing. 

Rolled wheat, barley, or oats. — Three cups of liquid 
to each cup of grain. Cook an hour. 

Cracked wheat, coarse oatmeal, granulated hominy. — 
Five cups of liquid to each cup of grain. Cook two or 
three hours. 

Corn-meal Mush. — Three cups of boiling water, one 
cup of corn-meal, half a cup of cold water, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Moisten the meal with the cold water, and 
stir the mixture gradually into the boiling water, to 
which the salt has been added. Cook thirty minutes, 
stirring occasionally to keep it from sticking to the 
kettle and burning, then move to the back of the 
stove, and let simmer gently an hour, or until ready 
to serve. 

If the mush is to be used for frying, moisten the meal 
with cold milk instead of water — as it will brown easier 
— and after it has cooked half an hour turn it into a 
pan or mold that has been wet with cold water, and let 
cool. 

To Stew Apples. — Pare, quarter, core, and wash the 
apples. Place the prepared quarters in a sauce-pan 
with a small quantity of hot water, cover closely, and 
stew rapidly for five minutes. Upon removing the 
cover, the apples, if done, will be broken and so tender 
as to fall apart readily. If not done, replace the cover 
and cook a few minutes longer. Put in a bowl or dish 
half the quantity of sugar required, pour the cooked 



Boiling. 41 



apples into the dish, sprinkle the other half of the sugar 
over them, cover closely, and serve hot or warm. 

Plain Gravy. — Cook together one tablespoonful of 
butter and one of flour till well mixed. Add one cup 
of the veal broth, simmer two minutes, then add to the 
gravy one third of the stewed veal. Season to taste 
with salt and pepper. 

White Sauce. — Cook together one tablespoonful each 
of butter and flour. Add three fourths of a cup of veal 
broth, simmer two minutes, add one fourth of a cup of 
cream, and when hot add one third of the cooked veal. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. 

Brown Sauce. — Brown together in a sauce-pan one 
teaspoonful each of butter and flour, add one cup of 
veal broth, simmer two minutes, and add the remaining 
portion of the veal. Season to taste with salt and 
pepper. 

To Make Coffee. — One tablespoonful of finely ground 
coffee, two tablespoonfuls of cold water, one teaspoon- 
ful of white of ^'g^, one cup of boiling water. Mix 
coffee, ^ZZ, and cold water together. Put in the 
coffee pot and add the boiling water. Simmer five 
minutes, add a tablespoonful of cold water, and it is 
ready to serve. 

To Make Green Tea. — One half teaspoonful of tea, 
one cup of water. Have the pot heated, put in the tea, 
and pour the freshly boiled water upon it. Stand it in 
a warm place where it will not boil, for five minutes. 

To Make Oolong Tea — Make the same as green, 
doubling the quantity of tea. 



42 A Text-Book of Cookery. 

LESSON VI.— FRYING AND SAUTEING. 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Explain principles involved in frying.' 

2. Prepare and cut in pieces a fish for frying. 

3. Give instruction in the selection and cleaning of 

fish.^ In the food principle contained in fish.^ 
In the food value of fish." 

4. Prepare potatoes for frying. 

5. Fry potatoes and fish. 

6. Have pupils fry potatoes and fish. 

7. Saut6 veal chops. 

8. Have pupils saut6 veal chops. 

9. Have pupils saut^ bacon. 

10. Have pupils saute liver. 

11. Give instruction in preparing bread crumbs for 

frying. 

Formulas for Lesson VI. 

To Fry Potatoes. — Prepare the potatoes in any form 
desired. Let them soak in cold water until wanted for 
frying. Heat the grease in the frying kettle. Test its 
temperature with a slice of potato, and if hot enough 
lower the frying basket into it. Drain the potatoes in a 
sieve and shake them in a towel to free them of 
moisture. Place a few slices at a time in the basket 
until the bottom is covered. The rapidity with which 
the potatoes may be dropped into the basket must be 

1 ' ' Chemistry of Cookery," pp. 84-97. 

2 " The Art of Cookery," pp. 14, 21. 

3 " Foods : Nutritive Value and Cost," Atwater, Bulletin No. 23, p. 27. 

4 " Foods : Nutritive Value and Cost," p. 27. 



Frying a?id SauiHng. 43 

determined by the appearance of the fat. If the surface 
of the grease becomes covered with bubbles, it is an 
indication that its temperature is too low for perfect 
frying. Wait until the bubbles disappear before adding 
mor-e potatoes. This test of temperature will apply to 
the frying of all articles. As soon as the potatoes are 
sufficiently cooked lift the basket from the grease, shake 
it over the kettle to free it and its contents from grease, 
dust the potatoes with salt and pepper, and pour into a 
warm dish lined with several folds of cheese-cloth. 

To Fry Fish. — Cut fresh fish of any kind in pieces a 
suitable size for serving, and season with salt and 
pepper, and fry in hot fat until they are a rich brown 
color and can be pierced easily with a fork. Then 
drain on cheese-cloth. 

To Saute Veal Chops. — Cut the chops an inch thick 
from the ribs or loin, remove the outer skin, season 
with sugar, salt, and pepper, and dredge with flour. 
Have a spoonful of hot clarified butter in a spider over 
the fire, lay in the chops, brown the under side, and 
turn them over in the spider. When brown on both 
sides, cover the spider closely, shove it to the back of 
the range, let the chops simmer ten minutes, then lift 
them to a warm platter. Add a tablespoonful of sweet 
milk to the gravy in the skillet, stir well, and strain 
over the chops. 

Clarified Butter. — To clarify butter heat it to boiling 
point, and let it simmer gently until the salt settles and 
a frothy scum arises, leaving the oily portions trans- 
parent. Remove the scum, drain the oil carefully from 



44 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

the salt, and the clarified butter is ready for use. Butter 
in being clarified should never be allowed to scorch or 
become brown. 

To Saute Breakfast Bacon. — Slice thin, remove the 
rind and brown edges, lay upon a hot spider over a 
moderate fire until brown on both sides and crisp. 

To Saute Calf's Liver. — Remove the skin from the 
liver, cut in slices half an inch in thickness, soak in 
salted cold water half an hour, dry on a towel, dust 
lightly with pepper and freely with flour, and cook 
gently in a spider in a little clarified butter, or drippings 
from salt pork or breakfast bacon, until thoroughly done. 

Crumbs for Frying. — To prepare crumbs for frying, 
take pieces of dry bread, crusts, or crackers, lay upon 
a molding board, and, with a rolling-pin, crush and roll 
them into very fine crumbs. Sift before using. 

LESSON VII MIXING. > 

Bread and Rolls. 
Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Give instruction in the food principles contained in 

wheat ; also in the process of making flour. ^ 

2. Instruction concerning yeast and yeast fermentation."' 

3. Mold light dough into loaves and rolls. (Teacher 

and pupils. ) 

4. Mix bread dough. 

1 " The Art of Cookery," pp. 179-181. 
2 •' The Art of Cooker>'," pp. 184-186. 
8 "The Art of Cookery," pp. 186-191. 



Mixing. 45 



5. Have pupils mix bread dough, each pupil using a 

half pint of wetting. 

6, Bake the loaves and rolls. 

Formulas for Lesson VII. 

Bread-making. — Bread-making is a neglected art. 
In hotels, restaurants, boarding houses, and private 
families, bad bread is abundant and good bread seldom 
found. Everywhere bad bread is the rule, good bread 
the exception. Yet good bread is one of the most 
nutritious, satisfying, and inexpensive articles of human 
food, while bad bread is one of the most innutritions, 
unsatisfying, and expensive. 

The general belief that numerous ingredients and 
much hard labor are necessary for successful bread- 
making has no foundation in fact. Bread-making, when 
the principles are understood, is one of the easiest of 
culinary processes ; and the only ingredients needed for 
bread of the choicest quality are flour, yeast, milk, 
water, and salt. Women will use salt rising, dry yeast 
cakes, potato balls, yeast foam, and innumerable other 
ferments to lighten their dough, and supplement them 
with grease, sugar, alum, vinegar, charcoal, and almost 
every other conceivable thing, and invariably have bad 
bread. Yet it seems never to occur to them to use only 
the proper ingredients. Why do people take such 
infinite pains to make bad bread? Why, in this en- 
lightened age of the world, should any person of ordi- 
nary sense want salt rising, dried yeast cakes, potato 
balls, or any false or putrefactive ferments in bread- 



46 A Text-Book of Cookery. 

making, when compressed yeast or pure home-made 
yeast is so readily obtainable, and is so superior in all 
respects for the purpose ? Or why should any intelli- 
gent person put ought else into dough than flour, yeast, 
milk, water, and salt, when these ingredients alone pro- 
duce the very best of bread ? 

In the good old times of which we are so frequently 
reminded by pessirnistic croakers, wheat with a year's 
accumulation of dirt clinging to it was emptied from a 
dirty sack into a dirty hopper, crushed by dirty stones 
into dirty flour, and then mixed with a dirty ferment 
into grandmother's bread. Was there not, under such 
conditions, a basis of truth for the then prevalent belief 
that it was the allotted task of each member of the 
family to eat his or her peck of dirt ? But those con- 
ditions have passed away. Through the agency of an 
improved method of milling, each grain of wheat is 
carefully brushed free of dirt and furze before it passes 
under the polished steel or porcelain rollers to be con- 
verted into flour, and by the aid of science pure yeast is 
made expressly for family use. Should not such an 
advance in preparing flour and yeast be followed by a 
similar advance in making bread ? The flour and yeast 
of to-day are far superior to the flour and yeast used by 
our grandmothers. Why should not the bread made 
to-day be far superior to the bread made by our grand- 
mothers ? The flour and yeast furnished by American 
men to-day are unequaled anywhere in excellence. 
Why shouldn't the bread made by American women 
to-day be the best bread in the world? 



Mixing. 47 



Flour. — Under the system of milling that was almost 
universal until thirty years ago the only fine flour that 
could be produced was mostly starch and the finest 
white flour was then deficient in nitrogen and the 
phosphates. Millers had no facilities for separating and 
purifying the middlings which contained the hard, 
nitrogenous parts of the grain, and they were largely 
used for pig and cattle feed. The new system of mill- 
ing, known as the roller process, has, however, entirely 
revolutionized things, and the middlings which con- 
tained those parts of the wheat are now purified and 
milled with care into patent or new process flour. The 
idea is still entertained by many that the choice, high- 
priced, patent flours are deficient in nitrogenous matter, 
and that coarse flour is more nutritious and healthful 
than fine. The reverse is the fact. The finest flours 
contain all the best elements of the wheat berry, without 
any admixture of pulverized wood fiber, bran coating, 
or germ grease ; and, all things considered, the very 
finest patent flour holds the leading place both hygien- 
ically and economically among cereal foods or grain 
products. 

The highest grade of patent flour is made from 
middlings cleansed from impurities by ' ' middlings puri- 
fiers." The inferior middlings go into other grades in 
due proportion. And the highest grade contains more 
gluten in proportion to the quantity of starch than the 
other grades. But any of the different grades of flour 
made at a certain mill can be raised or lowered in 
quality at the option of the miller, by increasing or 



48 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

decreasing the amount of gluten and starch in a given 
quantity of flour. Where the first patent made from a 
given quantity of wheat is of the choicest quality, it 
contains a large percentage of the best constituents of 
the wheat, and the other grades made from the same 
wheat must be correspondingly low in those constitu- 
ents. Of course where only one grade of flour is made 
at a mill all the constituents of the wheat berry go into 
the flour ; but in a hundred pounds of such flour the 
quantity of starch is greater in proportion to the quan- 
tity of gluten than it is in a hundred pounds of the 
highest grade patent flour. There is usually consider- 
able difference in the price of first and second grade 
flour, and frequently a difference of fifty per cent in 
price between a sack of the highest and a sack of the 
lowest grade flour. In other words, when the best 
patent flour made by a certain mill sells for $1.50 a 
sack, the lowest grade flour made by the same mill sells 
for 80 cents a sack. As a general rule, however, the 
highest priced flour is the cheapest, as it contains twice 
the amount of nutritious material and will, with half the 
labor, produce more than twice the quantity of good, 
wholesome bread. 

Strength, when applied to flour, means the measure 
of its power to absorb and retain water ; or indicates 
rather the measure of water that the flour will absorb to 
produce dough of a certain consistency, without any 
regard to the delicacy or nutritive qualities of the bread 
obtained from such dough. And when millers and 
bakers talk of " a strong flour, ' ' they mean that a cer- 



Mixing. 49 



tain grade of flour will absorb more water, and make 
more loaves of bread, than another grade will, and that 
a sack of flour of a special grade will take more wetting 
into its mixture and yield a greater quantity of bread 
than a sack of another grade will, the quality of the 
bread not being taken into account. 

Spring wheat has a harder grain than winter wheat 
and yields a harder and grittier flour, which absorbs 
more water and is easier to handle successfully than 
winter wheat flour, in bread-making. But equally good 
bread can be made from either variety, although more 
delicate cake and pastry can be made from winter wheat 
than from spring wheat flour, and what is known in the 
market as "pastry flour" is simply flour made of winter 
wheat. 

Compressed Yeast. — Yeast is a vegetable germ found 
upon the skin of grapes, plums, and some other fruits — 
in fact, the beautiful shade upon the skin of those fruits 
known as * ' bloom ' ' is produced by the yeast plants that 
float in the atmosphere settling upon them. If yeast 
germs get, or are put, into a substance in which they 
find material adapted to their development they increase 
very rapidly, and by their vegetative action during the 
period of growth cause the substance in which they are 
growing to bubble or ferment. The manufacturers of 
yeast multiply these germs indefinitely by inducing 
fermentation in a sweet infusion of malt, rye, and corn, 
and millions of the germs rise to the surface of the 
fermenting liquid, forming a scum resembling the froth 
of new milk. This scum is removed, run into vats of 



50 A Text- Book of Cookery, 

cold water, and allowed to settle to the bottom. The 
water is then pumped off, and the yeast pumped into 
hydraulic presses and reduced by pressure to the con- 
sistency desired, when it is made into cakes and put 
upon the market as ' ' compressed yeast. ' ' And from 
the fact that compressed yeast is the purest yeast that 
scientific research has yet discovered, and that it is im- 
possible by mechanical skill to crowd a greater number 
of yeast germs into a given space than are crowded into 
a cake of compressed yeast, it goes almost without say- 
ing that compressed yeast is the best ferment known to 
the world to-day for bread-making. 

It has been demonstrated over and over again that a 
certain quantity of pure, strong yeast is necessary to 
produce the best results in bread-making — that it is, in 
fact, impossible to make the best quality of bread unless 
the proper quantity of yeast be used ; and housekeepers 
who, to save two or three cents on each baking, buy 
liquid yeast at the bake shop, or dry yeast cakes at the 
corner grocery, always have inferior bread and are losers 
in nearly every way, in the long run. In yeast fermen- 
tation the decomposition of the starch in flour yields the 
gas that lightens the dough, while in these other fermen- 
tations it is the gluten that suffers ; and as starch is the 
most plentiful and least valuable portion of the flour, 
economical considerations alone should induce the use 
of compressed yeast in preference to any other ferments. 
Pure yeast produces sweet, nutty-flavored, wholesome 
bread, while diseased and putrefactive ferments produce 
the coarse, rough crumb, the pale, flinty crust, and the 



Mixing. 51 



flat, sour loaf that are so disappointing and discouraging 
to the bread-maker. The alleged costliness of com- 
pressed yeast would be a serious objection to its use in 
many families, if the allegation were correct. But no 
one -whose time is of any value can afford to dabble with 
dry yeast cakes or any of the other ferments. They 
generally cost a hundred fold more than compressed 
yeast by annoying the user, by robbing the flour of 
nutrition, and by yielding inferior bread. How much is 
gained in a baking by using one cent's worth of com- 
mon yeast and losing four cents' worth of nutritive 
matter from the flour, over using four cents* worth of 
compressed yeast and retaining all the nutrition in the 
bread ? 

The liability of compressed yeast to spoil in a short 
time by exposure is an objection that is frequently made 
to its use. But a similar objection can, with equal 
propriety, be made to the use of fresh fish, fowl, and 
flesh generally. And as a large proportion of so-called 
perishable articles of food require greater care for their 
perfect preservation than compressed yeast, this objec- 
tion is more imaginary than real. As long as com- 
pressed yeast remains firm and has an alcoholic smell it 
can be depended upon to give better results than dry 
yeast cakes or liquid yeast ; but the fresher it can be 
had the better it is for bread-making, and in localities 
where it is readily obtainable housekeepers should 
always get it as fresh as possible. 

Given good flour and good yeast any one should be 
able to make good bread, for the only other ingredi- 



52 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

ents needed are a litde salt and sufficient wetting to mix 
the flour into a dough of the proper consistency. And 
the wetting may be either water, or milk, or milk and 
water — provided always the milk is sweet. Bread 
mixed with water alone is tougher and sweeter, and will 
keep moist longer than bread mixed with milk and 
water, or with milk alone. French bread is mixed with 
water alone, Vienna bread is mixed with milk and water 
in equal proportions, and several varieties of bread are 
mixed with milk alone. 

Comparatively good bread can be made with liquid 
yeast, or even with dry yeast cakes if fresh and sweet ; 
but the best quality of bread can be made only with 
compressed yeast. And bread can be made so much 
easier with compressed yeast than with either liquid 
yeast or dry yeast cakes, that no housekeeper who can 
get compressed yeast can afford to use any other kind. 

Compressed Yeast Bread. — To each pint of luke- 
warm wetting, composed of equal portions of sweet 
milk and water, add a teaspoonful of salt and one half- 
ounce cake of compressed yeast dissolved in about 
three tablespoonfuls of cold water, then stir in flour 
with a spoon until a dough is formed sufficiently stiff to 
be turned from the mixing bowl in a mass. Put this 
dough on a molding board, and knead well, adding 
flour until it ceases to stick to the fingers or the molding 
board, then put it in a well-greased earthen bowl, brush 
the surface lightly with melted butter or drippings to 
keep it from crusting over, cover it with a bread towel, 
set to rise, and let stand for three hours, at a tempera- 



Mixing. 53 



ture of seventy-five degrees. At the end of that time 
form into loaves or rolls, put into greased pans, brush 
the surface with melted butter or drippings, cover as 
before, and again set to rise for an hour, at the same 
temperature, then bake. 

Dough when light enough to bake should be double 
the size in bulk it was when set to rise, and should be 
so aerated all through that when lifted in the pan the 
sense of weight will be scarcely perceptible. 

Bread should be put to bake as soon as it is suffi- 
ciently light ; and the oven, at the time the dough is 
put into it, should be at a temperature of 375 degrees — 
or hot enough to brown nicely a spoonful of flour in 
two minutes — and it should be kept at almost the same 
temperature throughout the baking. At that tempera- 
ture rolls will bake in twenty or twenty-five minutes, 
and ordinary sized loaves in from forty-five to fifty 
minutes. A loaf of bread when perfectly baked is a 
beautiful chestnut brown all over. If either the ends, 
sides, or bottom have a sickly hue, or are perceptibly 
lighter in color than the top, the loaf has been im- 
perfectly baked, and should be returned to the oven. 
A loaf of bread when sufficiently baked will not burn 
the hand, if lifted from the baking pan and laid on the 
open palm ; and if tapped on the bottom with the finger 
it will emit a hollow sound. Bread not sufficiently 
baked deteriorates rapidly and will begin to grow 
moldy, and frequently ropy, in three or four days, 
while perfectly baked bread may be kept from mold, 
and in very good condition, for a week or ten days. 



54 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

Bread as soon as taken from the oven should be 
turned from the pans, and placed, uncovered, in such 
position as will expose the greatest amount of surface to 
the fresh air, without allowing it to come in contact 
with anything likely to give it an unpleasant taste or 
odor. And when cold it should be put in a box or jar 
to which the air can have access, and be kept in a dry, 
cool room or closet. To wrap bread in cloths while 
warm prevents the escape of gas or steam, destroys the 
crispness of the crust, and robs the bread of much of its 
fine, nutty flavor. 

The quantity of flour necessary to be mixed with a 
certain quantity of wetting to make dough of the proper 
consistency for bread cannot be given accurately by 
weight or measure, without knowing the special brand 
of flour to be used, as the quantity varies according to 
the quality. But each quart of wetting will require 
from three pounds and ten ounces to three pounds and 
twelve ounces, or from seven to seven and one half 
pints of the best flour, and the amount of dough mixed 
from these proportions of wetting and flour will make 
four medium-sized loaves, or about five pounds, of 
good bread. 

The quantity of yeast used in bread-making is quite 
important. If an insufficient quantity is used the bread 
will be devoid of the rich, nutty flavor which is a 
prominent characteristic of all good bread, and will 
frequently have a yeasty smell or taste. 

Bread is never improved by the addition of grease or 
sugar. Grease interferes with the perfect action of the 



Mixing. 55 



yeast, and sugar, destroys much of the fine flavor of the 
flour. The simplest, easiest, and best method of making 
bread that has yet been discovered is the method given 
above. The formula is that used by the Vienna bakers, 
who- have for many years had the reputation of being 
the best bread-makers in the world. And all bread 
made in that manner is known as Vienna bread. 

Liquid Yeast. — Compressed yeast is on sale in most 
towns and villages, but as it cannot be obtained at all 
times and in all places every housekeeper should be 
acquainted with some approved method of making 
liquid yeast. Here is one that has been thoroughly 
tested : Steep an eighth of an ounce of pressed, or a 
small handful of loose, hops in a quart of boiling water 
for about five minutes. Strain the boiling infusion upon 
half a pint of flour, stirred to a smooth paste with a 
little cold water, mix well, let boil a minute, add a 
tablespoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of white sugar, 
set aside till lukewarm, then stir in two half-ounce cakes 
of compressed yeast dissolved in two tablespoonfuls of 
cold water, or a gill of good liquid yeast. Let stand 
twenty-four hours, stirring occasionally, cover closely, 
and set in a cool place. Yeast made according to this 
method will keep sweet two or three weeks, and can be 
used any time during that period for mixing bread, or 
for starting a fresh supply of yeast. 

Liquid Yeast Bread. — Mash one medium-sized, well- 
boiled potato in an earthen bowl with half a teacupful of 
flour, and pour over it, stirring meanwhile, a quart of 
boiling water. Set the mixture aside until it becomes 



56 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

lukewarm, then pour into it half a teacupful of liquid 
yeast, stir well, cover closely, and let stand till light. 
When it is perfectly light and foamy, which will be in 
about six hours if kept at the proper temperature, mix 
together equal portions of this ferment and warm sweet 
milk. Stir in sifted flour until a dough is formed 
sufhciently stiff to be turned from the mixing bowl to 
the molding board in a mass, then proceed in every 
respect as when making bread with compressed yeast. 
Bread made according to this method goes under the 
general name of home-made bread, and if all the con- 
ditions are carefully complied with it will be of good 
quality, but not nearly so good as Vienna bread. 

Imperial Rolls. — Divide a piece of Vienna bread 
dough, large enough for an ordinary sized loaf, into a 
dozen irregular pieces about half an inch in thickness. 
Take, separately, each of these pieces in the left hand, 
and slightly stretch with the thumb and forefinger of 
the right hand one of the irregular points over the left 
thumb, toward the center of the roll. Repeat this 
operation, turning the piece of dough as it proceeds, at 
each turn lifting the thumb and gently pressing it upon 
the last fold, until all the points have been drawn in, 
when the roll must be turned face, or smooth side, 
upward to rise, and when sufficiently risen must be re- 
versed in position, or turned smooth side downward in 
the pan, and placed in the oven. If the folding is done 
properly, an imperial roll when baked will be composed 
of a succession of sheets or layers of delicate, tenacious 
crumb, surrounded with a thin, crisp, tender crust. 



Mixing. 57 



French Rolls No. i. — Take enough dough for a small 
loaf of bread, and divide it into four pieces. Roll each 
piece under the palms of the hands, upon the molding 
board, into a long roll not much thicker than one's 
thumb, lay in a suitable roll-pan, let rise till sufficiently 
light, then bake. 

French Rolls No. 2. — Divide a piece of bread dough 
large enough for a small loaf of bread into twelve pieces. 
With the finger-tips knead each piece into a ball, then 
roll under the palms of the hands, upon the molding 
board, until each is five or six inches in length — rolling 
at last upon the ends only, so as to make them pointed 
and smaller. Place two of these rolls together, and 
lifting one end of each roll upon the other, pinch to- 
gether, lay in a fiat, broad pan to rise, and brush over 
with melted butter. Leave half an inch space between 
the rolls so the crust of each roll may be perfect, and, 
when sufficiently light, bake in the pan in which they 
were put to rise. 

French Rolls No. 3. — Divide sufficient dough for a 
small loaf into twelve pieces. With the finger-tips 
knead each piece into a ball, and place these balls an 
inch apart, on a greased baking pan or floured board, to 
rise. Brush over with melted butter, and let stand half 
an hour at a temperature of seventy-five degrees, then 
take each ball separately, and, with a rolling-pin not 
larger than one's finger, press in the center of each 
roll, pushing the dough each way from the center, until 
the dough under the rolling-pin is very thin and about 
an inch and a half in width. Lift up this double roll, 



58 A Text-Book of Cookery, 

stretch it until about an inch and a half longer, and lay 
it face downward upon a towel or cloth spread in a 
shallow pan, and close up against one side of the pan. 
Manipulate another of the rolls in the same manner and 
place beside the first, drawing up a portion of the towel 
between the rolls. Repeat the operation until all the 
rolls are in the pan. Let rise in this position half an 
hour, or until the rolls are very light, then lift carefully 
and place on a baking sheet or pan, face up, not allow- 
ing them to touch each other, and bake. 

Crescents. — Roll the dough as directed for French 
Rolls No. 2, but twice as long, which will leave it only 
half as large. Roll down at the ends to make them 
pointed. Place two of these long, slender rolls beside 
each other, and throwing them alternately over each 
other, twist them together, and pinch the ends close. 
Put them on a baking sheet or pan in the form of a 
crescent or horse shoe, and let them rise for an hour, or 
until light, then bake. 

Queen Ann Rolls. — Shape the dough as for French 
rolls, twist two of the rolls together as for crescents, lay 
in Queen Ann pans or large roll-pans, let stand an hour, 
or until light, then bake. 

Rolls of all kinds are more crisp and tender when 
baked quickly, and the oven should be hotter for rolls 
than for bread. They should also be considerably 
lighter than bread when put to bake, as they have but 
little opportunity to rise after they go in the oven, if it 
is hot enough to bake them properly. If a thick crust 
is desired they should remain in the oven a longer time. 



Mixing, 59 



LESSON VIII.— MIXING. 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1 . Give instruction concerning baking powder, its action 

in making batter and dough light. 

2. Make wheat muffins with baking powder and milk. 

3. Have several pupils make wheat muffins. 

4. Make wheat muffins with sour milk and soda. Ex- 

plain the action of soda. 

5. Have several pupils make Wheat Muffins No. 2. 

6. Make griddle cakes with sweet milk, baking powder, 

and eggs. 

7. Have pupils make griddle cakes with sweet milk, 

baking powder, and eggs. 

8. Have pupils make griddle cakes with sour milk and 

soda. 

Formulas for Lesson VHL 
Wheat Muffins No. i. — Two cups of flour, one cup 
of sweet milk, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, two 
tablespoonfuls of baking powder, a pinch of salt. Sift 
the baking powder and salt with the flour into the mix- 
ing bowl, add the milk, and beat well, then add the 
melted butter. Bake half an hour. 

Wheat Muffins No. 2. — One and one half cups of 
flour, one cup of thick sour milk, one half teaspoonful 
of soda, a pinch of salt. Sift the soda, salt, and flour 
together, add the milk, stir lightly, and bake. 

Wheat Griddle Cakes No. i. — One and a half cups of 
flour, one cup of sweet milk, two level teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one tablespoonful of melted butter, one 



6o A Text-Book of Cookery, 

^%%, a pinch of salt. Sift the baking powder, salt, and 
flour together into the mixing bowl, add the milk, but- 
ter, and yolk of ^%^, beat until very light, then fold in 
the white of the ^%% beaten stiff, and bake in cakes on a 
hot griddle. 

Wheat Griddle Cakes No. 2. — One rounded cup of 
flour, one cup of thick, sour milk, one teaspoonful of 
soda, a pinch of salt. Sift the soda, salt, and flour 
together into the mixing bowl, add the sour milk, and 
stir with a spoon, but only until thoroughly mixed. 
Bake on a griddle. 

LESSON IX.— MIXING. 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Make baking powder biscuit. 

2. Have pupils make baking powder biscuit. 

3. Make scrap meat pie. 

4. Give instruction concerning corn-meal, illustrated 

by the prepared analysis ; also upon the proper 
way of handling corn-meal. ' 

5. Make corn-meal muffins. 

6. Have pupils make corn-meal muffins. 

7. Make corn-bread. 

8. Have pupils make corn-bread. 

9. Make corn griddle cakes. 

10. Have pupils make corn griddle cakes. 

Formulas for Lesson IX. 
Baking Powder Biscuit. — Two cups of flour, one 

1 "The Art of Cookery/' pp. 207-209. 



Mixing. 6 1 



cup of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
one half teaspoonful of salt. Sift the salt, baking pow- 
der, and flour together, add the milk, and beat to a 
smooth dough. Turn upon a well-floured molding 
board, dust with flour, and roll into a sheet about an 
inch in thickness. Dip the biscuit cutter in flour, cut 
the sheet of dough into cakes, lay in a baking pan, and 
bake in a quick oven until thoroughly done. 

Scrap Meat Pie.— Fill a baking dish three quarters 
full with odds and ends of cold cooked meat — chicken, 
beef, veal, lamb, etc. — from which the skin, gristle, and 
objectionable bones have been removed. Cook together 
in a sauce-pan one tablespoonful of butter and two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, add two cups of soup stock, 
simmer five minutes or until smooth, season to taste, 
and pour over the prepared scrap meat in the pie. 
Cover loosely with a crust rolled to one quarter inch in 
thickness and bake until the crust is cooked. 

Corn-meal. — The roller mill has worked as great an 
improvement in corn-meal as it has in flour, and the 
corn-meal of to-day is vastly superior in quality to the 
corn-meal of twenty-five years ago, and requires very 
different handling. And yet the recipes given in most 
cook-books prescribe ' * one cup of wheat flour and two 
cups of corn-meal," or else "two cups of wheat flour 
and one cup of corn-meal," for making all kinds of 
corn-bread. These are the formulas that were in vogue 
when bolted corn-meal was the only meal manufactured 
and used, and if they produced satisfactory results with 
bolted meal, they certainly do not when granulated 



62 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

meal is used. Such a mixture — whether the meal be 
bolted or granulated — does not make bread of any kind 
of a very high character ; but, be its character high or 
low, it has no legitimate claim to the title of corn-bread. 
For bread-making purposes wheat flour and corn-meal 
have no affinity whatever, as one requires scalding and 
the other does not. 

Corn-meal requires a good deal of cooking to develop 
its finest flavor, and make it palatable and healthful ; 
and the main point in making good corn-bread is to 
scald the meal thoroughly. The water used for scald- 
ing meal should be boiling, and that none of its efficacy 
be lost it is desirable that the vessel in which the dough 
is mixed, and the spoon with which it is stirred, should 
be warm. There is a vast difference in the quality of 
corn-bread made with scalded meal and that made with 
meal which has been merely soaked with warm water. 
Almost every kind of corn-bread is better for being 
cooked from forty to sixty minutes, and if the meal is 
not thoroughly scalded when mixed it should be baked 
considerably longer. Granulated meal makes much 
lighter, drier, sweeter, and more delicious bread than 
bolted meal, and is preferable for all culinary purposes. 
But it should be always thoroughly scalded with boiling 
water or milk before it is made into bread or cakes, and 
whenever cold milk is used it should be added grad- 
ually. There are several grades of granulated meal — 
some being quite coarse and some very fine — and as the 
coarse will absorb fully twice as much water as the fine 
in the process of scalding, it requires the exercise of 



Mixing. 63 



judgment to have the dough of the proper consistency — 
neither too soft nor too stiff. The formulas here given 
are for meal of medium fineness. If the meal used is 
very coarse more liquid will be required, if very fine 
less liquid. 

Corn Muffins. — One cup of granulated corn-meal, 
three fourths of a cup of boiling water, one half cup of 
cold sweet milk, one heaping teaspoonful of sugar, one 
level teaspoonful of salt, one ^%%. Mix the sugar and 
salt with the meal, scald with the boiling water, add the 
cold milk gradually, stir in the Q.<g%, and bake in muffin 
cups, or in shallow pie-pans. 

Corn-Bread. — One cup of granulated corn-meal, one 
and one quarter cups of boiling milk, one tablespoonful 
of butter, one heaping teaspoonful of sugar, one level 
teaspoonful of salt, two eggs. Mix the meal, salt, and 
sugar together, scald with boiling milk, add the butter, 
and, when the mixture is sufficiently cool, stir in the 
yolks and whites of the eggs, beaten separately. Bake 
in loaves. 

Corn Griddle Cakes. — One cup of granulated corn - 
meal, three fourths of a cup of boiling water, half a 
cup of cold sweet milk, one heaping teaspoonful of 
sugar, one level teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful 
of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one &g%. 
Mix the sugar and salt with the meal, scald with the 
boiling water, stir in the ^%g, add the flour and baking 
powder, beat well, and bake in small cakes on the grid- 
dle. Cakes made of corn-meal require longer cooking 
than those made of wheat flour. 



64 A Text-Book of Cookery. 



LESSON X.— MIXING AND SEASONING. 

Soup arid Puddings. 
Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Have pupils prepare and cook vegetables for vege- 

table soup — stock prepared. 

2. Make caramel sauce. 

3. Make Bread and Butter Pudding No. i. 

4. Have pupils make Bread and Butter Pudding No. i. 

5. Have pupils make Bread and Butter Pudding No. 2. 

6. Have pupils make Bread and Butter Pudding No. 3. 

7. Have pupils make baked apple pudding. 

8. Make liquid sauce. 

9. Make creamed butter and sugar. 

Formulas for Lesson X. 

Vegetable Soup. — Cook half a cup each of carrots, 
turnips, and onions chopped fine. Add four cups of 
beef stock, half a cup of diced tomato, and one table- 
spoonful of minced parsley. Simmer fifteen minutes, 
season to taste, and serve. 

Caramel Sauce. — ^To one cup of granulated sugar 
add half a cup of water, and boil until the mixture 
begins to color, then cook slowly, and stir, if neces- 
sary, to produce an even or uniform coloring. When 
of a bright chestnut brown, add half a cup of hot water, 
cook five minutes, and serve either hot or cold. 

Bread and Butter Pudding No.i. — Butter slices of 
stale bread thinly on both sides, and cover the bottom 
of a shallow baking dish with them. Pour as much 



Mixmg and Seasonmg. 65 

sweet milk over the bread as it will absorb, then pour 
over it a custard made from two cups of rich milk, a 
pinch of salt, and four well-beaten eggs. Bake in a 
moderate oven until firm in the center and nicely 
browned over the surface. Serve hot, with creamed 
butter and sugar, liquid or caramel sauce. 

Bread and Butter Pudding No. 2. — Prepare and bake 
like Bread and Butter Pudding No. i, but add four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar to the custard. Dust with mace 
or nutmeg, and serve cold. 

Bread and Butter Pudding No. 3. — Prepare and bake 
like Bread and Butter Pudding No. i, but use half a 
cup of caramel sauce to sweeten the pudding. 

Baked Apple Pudding. — Cover the bottom of a 
buttered pudding dish with quarters of sour apples that 
have been pared and cored. Dust lightly with salt, 
and lay over them slices of stale bread that have been 
soaked in cold water until thoroughly saturated. Place 
a layer of quarters of apples upon the moist bread and 
cover thickly with soft fine bread crumbs, moistened 
lightly with melted butter. Sift two tablespoonfuls of 
granulated sugar over the apples, cover with a buttered 
pie-pan or tin cover, and bake in a moderate oven for 
half an hour, or until the apples are soft, then remove 
the cover, let the pudding brown, and serve warm with 
creamed butter and sugar, or liquid sauce. 

Liquid Sauce. — Mix together a tablespoonful of flour 
and a cup of granulated sugar, add a cup of boiling 
water, and simmer five minutes. Add a fourth of a 
teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, and lastly whip into 



66 A Text-Book of Cookery. 

the mixture half a cup of butter, beaten to a cream. 
Creamed Butter and Sugar. — Put half a cup of butter 
into a pint bowl, slightly warmed, and stir with a 
wooden spoon until it is soft and creamy, then add, a 
tablespoonful at a time, one cup of pulverized sugar — 
stirring the mixture after adding each spoonful of sugar. 
Flavor with one teaspoonful of vanilla extract, and add 
also, if desired, two or three tablespoonfuls of sweet 
cream — a tablespoonful at a time, beating well before 
adding more. 



LESSON XI.— SALADS. 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Have pupils prepare and cook cabbage. 

2. Make sauce hollandaise. 

3. Make cabbage salad. Have pupils prepare and cut 

the cabbage. 

4. Have pupils make cooked mayonnaise dressing. 

5. Make onion salad. 

6. Have pupils make cream dressing. 

7. Make potato salad. Boil potatoes in the skin, call- 

ing attention to the advantage of this manner of 
cooking potatoes. 

Formulas for Lesson XL 

Sauce Hollandaise. — Cook together until well mixed 
one tablespoonful each of butter and flour, add a cup of 
sweet milk or cream, simmer five minutes, then stir in 



Salads. 67 



the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, with a tablespoon- 
ful of water. Add the eggs slowly and continue the 
cooking, after the ^%% is all in, for about a minute. 
Remove from the fire, add a tablespoonful of butter and 
one -of lemon juice, and season with salt and pepper. 

Cabbage Salad. — Soak the prepared cabbage in cold 
water till crisp. Shave thin, and dress with cooked 
mayonnaise. 

Cooked Mayonnaise Dressing — Pour four tablespoon- 
fuls of boiling vinegar over two whole eggs, or the yolks 
of four eggs, which have been well beaten, stirring the 
mixture while adding the vinegar. Put in a small 
sauce-pan over the fire, and cook slowly, stirring con- 
stantly, until the mixture is thick and creamy. Remove 
from the fire, add a tablespoonful of butter, and stir 
until perfectly mixed. Season to taste with sugar, salt, 
and pepper. 

Onion Salad. — Remove the skin from a medium-sized 
onion, slice as thin as possible, put on broken ice, 
and when chilled and crisp serve with a dressing made 
from mixing together one teaspoonful of sugar, one 
half teaspoonful of salt, one eighth of a teaspoonful of 
white pepper, and two teaspoonfuls of sharp vinegar. 

Cream Dressing. — Cook together two tablespoonfuls 
each of butter and flour, add a cup of thin cream, and 
simmer five minutes. Then add gradually four table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. When perfectly cold beat in one 
cup of whipped cream, or one half cup of thin cream. 
Add one tablespoonful each of minced onion and 
parsley, and season to taste with salt and pepper. 



68 A Text-Book of Cookery. 

Potato Salad. — Pour cream dressing over thinly sliced 
cold boiled potatoes. 



LESSON XII.— A LUNCHEON. 

Have pupils prepare and serve a luncheon under 
supervision of teacher, confining the bill of fare to such 
dishes as the pupils have learned to prepare and cook. 
This lesson should be a test of proficiency. 



SECOND TERM. 

LESSON I BROILING. 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Prepare chicken for broiling ; give instruction in 

best method of cleaning and dressing poultry ' ; 
also in selecting poultry.^ 

2. Give instruction in oven broiling. ^ 

3. Prepare a fish for broiling. 

4. Broil fish in oven. 

5. Have pupils make dry toast. 

6. Have pupils make dipped toast. 

7. Have pupils make cream toast. 

8. Prepare parsley butter for fish. 

9. Carve fish. 

10. Carve chicken. 

11. Broil oysters. 

12. Broil oysters on griddle. 

Have pupils do the work after instruction in pre- 
paring oysters for broiling. 

Formulas for Lesson I. 

To Pick a FowL — Fowls that are picked dry are con- 
sidered superior to those whose feathers are removed 

1 " The Art of Cookery," pp. 20-21. 

2 " The Art of Cookery," p. 13. 

3 " The Art of Cookery," p. 43. 

69 



7© A Text-Book of Cookery. 

by scalding, but as the latter method is the one in gen- 
eral use and is much easier and quicker than dry pick- 
ing, it is the method here given : Hold the fowl by 
the feet or legs, plunge it in very hot water, and draw 
it out again almost instantly. Repeat the process sev- 
eral times, until the feathers are thoroughly soaked and 
can be pulled out easily. Then take the fowl in the left 
hand, and with the right hand pluck out the feathers, 
stripping them from the legs down toward the head. 
After all the feathers have been removed, rub out the 
pin feathers with a coarse cloth, and singe off the hairs 
over a blaze of alcohol or gas. 

To Draw a Fowl. — Cut off the head of the fowl, if it 
has not already been removed. Slit the skin the full 
length of the neck at the back, and carefully loosen it 
from the neck and craw. Cut of! the neck about an 
inch from the body, and remove the craw and wind- 
pipe, being careful not to tear the skin of the fowl. 
Insert a sharp-pointed knife in front of, and close to, the 
tail and cut through the skin around the vent and out- 
side the entrail. Lift up the skin below the breast-bone 
of the fowl, leaving a strip an inch in width above the 
vent. Cut crosswise two inches and make an opening 
large enough to insert two fingers, with which carefully 
draw out the entire contents of the body of the fowl. 
Separate the heart, liver, and gizzard from the entrails. 
Remove the gall-sack from the liver very carefully, and 
open and empty the gizzard. 

To Draw a Bird. — This is the best and easiest way 
of drawing a bird or young chicken that is to be 



Broiling. 7 1 



broiled : Insert a small sharp-pointed knife between the 
shoulder and the back-bone and cut down the back the 
entire length of the fowl or bird — being careful not to 
cut into the entrails. Lay the fowl or bird open and 
reraove the contents of the body. 

To Wash a Fowl. — Dissolve a teaspoonful of soda in 
two quarts of water, and with a cloth or brush wash the 
skin of the fowl very thoroughly. Rinse the inside 
with the soda water. Wash the giblets also. Rinse all 
in cold water and wipe dry with a soft towel. 

To Broil a Chicken in the Oven — After the chicken 
has been split down the back and properly prepared, 
lay it inside down upon a meat-board and press the 
joints and breast-bone close to the board with a rolling- 
pin — crushing them down until the chicken is quite flat — 
then wipe ofE all moisture with a dry towel, and lay the 
flattened chicken inside down upon a smoking hot roast- 
ing pan. Put a weight upon it to keep it pressed close 
to the pan until well seared and lightly browned. After 
the searing and browning have been accomplished re- 
move the weight, and put the chicken, without taking 
it from the pan, into a very hot oven. Place it on the 
upper grate so the greatest heat may be from above. 
Close the oven door and leave the chicken undisturbed 
for twenty minutes. At the end of that time it will be 
evenly browned on the outside, and, if young and not 
large, will be perfectly cooked all through. If full grown 
or very large it will have to be cooked from forty to sixty 
minutes. When cooked, lay upon a platter, season with 
salt, pepper, and melted butter, and serve. 



72 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

To Broil a Fish in the Oven. — Open the fish down 
the front, lay it, skin side down, on a fish rack, or on 
oiled paper, in a roasting pan, season with salt, pepper, 
and melted butter, and dust with fiour. Put to cook 
on the upper grate of a hot oven, and, when nicely- 
browned, place on a warm platter, season with plain or 
parsley butter, and serve. A fish weighing three or 
four pounds will broil in an oven at the right tempera- 
ture in about half an hour, and one of larger size in a 
proportionately greater length of time. 

Dipped Toast. — Put a cup of boiling water, a table- 
spoonful of butter, and a fourth of a teaspoonful of 
salt, in a shallow basin, on the back of the stove. Dip 
the toasted bread, a slice at a time, into the mixture, 
turn it over with a knife and fork, and lift on to a 
heated platter before it becomes too soft. If the toast 
is required richer, more butter may be used. Hot milk 
may also be used in place of water, if preferred. 

Creamed Toast. — Put in a shallow pan or basin on 
the back of the stove a cup of milk, a tablespoonful of 
butter, and a fourth of a teaspoonful of salt. Mix well 
together and dip the toasted bread, by laying a slice at 
a time in the hot mixture. With a fork and a Hmber- 
hladed knife turn it over, press under the milk, and lift 
at once into a warm tureen. After all the toast wanted 
has been dipped and lifted to the tureen in this manner, 
pour over it a cup of white sauce. 

White Sauce. — Cook together one tablespoonful of 
butter and one of flour, add one cup of cream, simmer 
iive minutes, season, and serve. 



Roasting and Stewing. 73 

Parsley Butter. — To one tablespoonful of butter add 
a teaspoonful of minced parsley and a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice. Season with salt and pepper and mix well. 

To Broil Oysters — Roll the oysters in fine bread 
crumbs, dip in melted butter, lay in a wire broiler, and 
cook quickly over a brisk fire, turning the broiler as 
often as necessary. 

To Broil Oysters on a Griddle. — Drain the oysters in 
a colander or sieve, dip each oyster in melted butter 
that has been clarified, and lay upon a plate for con- 
venient handHng. Have a griddle clean, smoking hot, 
and perfectly dry. Fill it quickly with the buttered 
oysters, laying them closely together upon it. By the 
time the griddle is filled, if the fire is sufhciently hot, 
the oysters first laid upon it will be browned and broiled. 
With a limber knife and a fork turn the oysters upon 
the griddle, in the order in which they were laid upon 
it. As soon as they are turned begin removing those 
first put upon the griddle, and so proceed until they are 
all lifted upon a warm platter on which salt, pepper, 
and butter have been placed. Or they can be laid upon 
thin slices of toast and seasoned with salt, pepper, and 
melted butter. 

LESSON II.— ROASTING AND STEWING. 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Prepare stuffing and stuf! a chicken. (Have chicken 

already dressed. ) 

2. Prepare and stuff pork for roasting. 



74 A Text-Book of Cookery. 

3. Stew cranberries. 

4. Have pupils stew apples. 

5. Have pupils brown white potatoes. 

6. Have pupils brown sweet potatoes. 

7. Have pupils make chicken gravy. 

8. Have pupils make gravy for roast pork. 

9. Carve the chicken. ' 

Formulas for Lesson H. 

Stuffing for Poultry. — To prepare crumbs for stuff- 
ing meats, poultry, etc. , remove the crust from a loaf of 
stale bread, break the loaf in the middle, and rub the 
jagged or rough edges against each other until the 
bread is rubbed into tolerably fine crumbs. Season to 
taste with salt and pepper the desired quantity of 
crumbs, and moisten lightly with melted butter. If 
additional seasoning be desired, minced parsley, celery, 
or onion may be used. 

To Roast a Chicken. — Place the chicken, after it has 
been properly cleaned, in a large bowl, tail downward, 
put the prepared crumbs in at the neck until the breast 
becomes plump, then draw the skin together, and fasten 
over on the back. Reverse the position of the chicken 
in the bowl, put the remaining crumbs in the body, at 
the opening through which the entrails were removed, 
and sew it up with strong thread. Press the wings 
and legs as close to the body as possible, and secure 
them firmly in position with strings or skewers. Lay 
the chicken, breast downward, on a rack in the roasting 

1 *' The Art of Cookery," p. 316. 



Roasting ajid Stewing. 75 

pan, and let it remain in that position until the back is a 
light brown color, then turn it over, and let the breast 
and sides brown in a similar manner. Do not put any 
water in the pan during this process. When the entire 
chicken is nicely browned begin basting with a thin 
gravy. As this basting gravy evaporates, add a little 
boiling water to keep it from burning in the pan, and 
baste as often as the skin of the chicken becomes dry, 
until the roasting is completed. The time required for 
roasting a chicken varies according to its size and age. 
But an hour and a half is sufficient time to allow for a 
large, full-grown chicken not over a year old. 

Stuffing for Pork.— Season to taste with salt and 
pepper the desired quantity of bread crumbs, add a 
little sage or sweet marjoram, and moisten with melted 
butter. 

To Roast Fresh Pork. — Make pockets under the skin 
and fill them with the stuffing, or pack it upon the 
inside of the roast, roll up tightly, pin with skewers, tie 
securely with twine, place upon a rack in the roasting 
pan, and put in the oven. As soon as it is a light 
brown color baste with hot water seasoned with salt 
and pepper, and renew the operation every fifteen 
minutes until the roast is thoroughly cooked. It re- 
quires fully twice as long a time to roast pork as it 
does to roast beef or mutton, and as the frequent 
bastings keep it from becoming hardened, a piece of 
pork weighing not more than three or four pounds can 
be roasted with advantage two or two and a half hours. 

To Stew Cranberries. — To a quart of cranberries 



76 A Text- Book of Cookery, 

picked and washed add three fourths of a pint of boiling 
water, cover closely, and cook five minutes over a 
quick fire. Mash with a wooden spoon such of the 
berries as have not burst, and rub through a colander 
or pumpkin strainer into an earthen dish or bowl. Put 
the pulp into the sauce-pan in which the berries were 
cooked, add three fourths of a pint of granulated sugar, 
simmer five minutes, and serve hot or cold. When 
cold the sauce will be jellied. 

Browned White Potatoes. — Pare the potatoes, and 
parboil them for fifteen minutes. Put into a baking 
pan some gravy from the roast pork. Roll the pota- 
toes in the gravy till well coated, then put them into 
the oven till thoroughly cooked and nicely browned. 

Browned Sweet Potatoes. — Wash the potatoes and 
boil until tender. Drain, pare the potatoes, and roll 
them in melted butter. Then put them into a baking 
pan and brown them nicely in the oven. 

Chicken Gravy ; Gravy for Roast Pork. — See Roast 
Beef Gravy, Lesson III., Term I. 

LESSON III.— BOILING. 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Boil a fowl whole (fowl prepared). 

2. Steam graham pudding. 

3. Have pupils prepare and stew onions. 

4. Have pupils boil rice. 

5. Have pupils make celery sauce. 

6. Have pupils make drawn butter sauce. 



Boiling. 77 



7. Have pupils make parsley sauce. 

8. Have pupils make oyster sauce. 

9. Make liquid sauce for pudding. (Demonstration 

by pupil. ) 
10. -Have a pupil carve the chicken. 

Formulas for Lesson HI. 

To Boil a Fowl. — Truss the legs and wings close to 
the body. Put into a kettle of boiling, salted water — 
being careful to have enough water to submerge com- 
pletely the fowl — and cook until the skin assumes a 
gelatinous appearance and the fowl becomes tender. 
When done take out, carefully remove all the trussing 
strings and skewers, and lay on a platter. Serve with 
parsley, oyster, or celery sauce. 

Graham Pudding. — Three cups of graham flour, one 
cup of sweet milk, one cup of molasses, one cup of 
raisins, one teaspoonful of salt, three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. Mix the dry ingredients and raisins 
together, then add the molasses and milk. Steam in a 
buttered mold four hours. 

To Clean Raisins. — Pour boiling water over them, let 
them stand five minutes, rub dry. Tear in two and 
eject the seeds. 

To Stew Onions. — Peel, boil half an hour, drain, 
cover with milk, stew until tender, drain, mash or chop, 
add a little cream, stir over the lire until thoroughly 
heated, then season with salt and pepper ; or when 
cooked tender dress with salt, pepper, and butter, and 
serve whole. 



78 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

Celery Sauce. — To one cup of drawn butter made with 
celery stock add one cup of white celery, cut in dice, 
and cooked tender. Simmer five minutes, season, and 
serve with boiled or roasted turkey, chicken, or veal. 

Celery Stock. — Put the roots and coarse outside 
pieces of half a dozen stalks of celery into three pints of 
slightly salted water, simmer an hour, strain, and use 
for stock. 

Drawn Butter Sauce. — Make drawn butter sauce 
as in Lesson IV., Term I., using chicken broth instead 
of mutton broth. 

Parsley Sauce. — Cook together a tablespoonful each 
of butter and flour, add a cup of chicken broth and a 
teaspoonful of minced parsley. Simmer five minutes, 
add another teaspoonful of butter, season, and serve 
with boiled chicken. 

Oyster Sauce. — To one cup of drawn butter made 
with water add a dozen medium-sized oysters and sim- 
mer five minutes, or until the thin edges wrinkle and 
separate. Season and serve with boiled codfish, boiled 
turkey, capon, or fowl. 

Liquid Sauce. — See Lesson X. , Term I . 

LESSON IV STEAMING AND STEWING. 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Prepare and put to stew veal for a pot pie. 

2. Give instruction in making cream soups. 

3. Have pupils prepare and cook potatoes for cream of 

potato soup. 



Steaming and Stewing. 79 

4. Have pupils prepare and cook celery for cream of 

celery soup. 

5. Make cream of tomato soup. 

6. Have pupils finish their soups. 

7. Have pupils make dumplings for pot pie. 

8. Serve soups while the dumplings are steaming. 

9. Serve the pot pie. 

Formulas for Lesson IV. 

Veal Pot Pie. — Select thin portions of veal in which 
the lean and fat are about equally combined. Remove 
the outer skin, cut the meat in pieces suitable for 
serving, put it into a stew-pan, add a teaspoonful of 
salt and hot water enough barely to cover the meat. 
Cover the stew-pan closely, and let the meat cook 
slowly for two or three hours. Add the dumplings, 
and steam for fifteen or twenty minutes without lifting 
the cover. Remove the meat and dumplings, and 
thicken the broth with a tablespoonful each of butter 
and flour, stirred to a smooth paste. 

Dumplings. — One and three quarters cups of flour, 
one cup of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one half teaspoonful of salt. Sift the salt, 
baking powder, and flour together, add the milk, and 
beat to a smooth dough. Place a spoonful of dough 
upon each piece of meat, being careful that it does not 
sink into the broth. 

Cream of Potato Soup. — Cook together one table- 
spoonful of butter and two tablespoonfuls of flour. Add 
a cup and a half of boiled mashed potato and half a 



8o A Text- Book of Cookery. 

cup of boiled mashed onion and two cups of hot water. 
Rub through a sieve and return to the sauce-pan. Add 
a cupful of thin cream, heat to boiling point, and season 
to taste. 

Cream of Celery Soup. — Cook together in a sauce- 
pan until well mixed one tablespoonful of butter and 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, add four cups of celery- 
stock, and simmer five minutes. Pour in a cup of 
sweet cream, heat to boiling point, season to taste. 

Cream of Tomato Soup. — To one tablespoonful of 
butter and two tablespoonfuls of flour cooked together 
add three cupfuls of strained tomato. Simmer five 
minutes. Add one cupful of cream, and season to taste. 

LESSON v.— FRYING. 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Have pupils prepare potatoes and fish for fish balls 

and fish cakes. 

2. Have a number of the pupils make the potatoes and 

fish into fish balls and fry them. 

3. Have the remainder make fish cakes and saut6 them. 

4. Have pupils saut6 potatoes. 

5. Have pupils saute apples. 

6. Fry oysters. 

7. Saut6 oysters. 

8. Make lyonnaise potatoes. 

Formulas for Lesson V. 
Codfish Balls. — To a cup of salt codfish, cut in small 
pieces, freed from skin and bone, and well washed in 



Frying. 8i 

cold water, add a cup of raw potato also cut in small 
pieces. Put in a sauce-pan, cover with boiling water, 
and simmer gently until the potato is cooked. Then 
drain, dry off carefully, mash the codfish and potato 
together, add a dust of white pepper, a tablespoonful of 
sweet milk, a teaspoonful of butter, and the unbeaten 
whites of two eggs, or one whole ql^^. Fry in spoon- 
fuls in hot fat, drain on cheese-cloth, and serve with 
poached eggs on toast. 

To Saute Fish Cakes.— Mix together half a pint of 
boiled codfish freed from bones and skin, half a pint of 
mashed, boiled potato, two tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, 
and one tablespoonful of butter. Season to taste with 
salt and pepper, form into cakes half an inch thick, and 
brown in a spider in hot butter, or the drippings of salt 
pork or breakfast bacon. 

To Saute Potatoes. — Slice cold boiled potatoes in 
slices a sixteenth of an inch in thickness, season to taste 
with salt and pepper, and brown on both sides in clari- 
fied butter. Serve in a warm, covered dish, or as a 
garnish to beefsteak or chops of any kind. 

To Saute Apples. — Wash and wipe sour apples, re- 
move the blossom end and all blemishes of skin, slice in 
rounds a sixteenth of an inch thick, dust with flour, and 
cook in clarified butter in a spider till brown on both 
sides. If the slices are not soft when brown, cover the 
spider and let them simmer a few minutes on a cooler 
part of the range. Serve with broiled ham, breakfast 
bacon, pork chops, or tenderloin. 

To Fry Oysters. — Select large oysters, drain on a 

SZt3 



32 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

sieve, lay singly on a plate, and season with salt and 
pepper. Lift each oyster by sticking a small skewer 
through its thin edge, dip it in white corn-meal and 
flour sifted together in equal proportions, cover with 
egg batter, then with crumbs, fry in a basket in very 
hot fat, drain on cheese-cloth, and serve on a warm 
platter. 

To Saute Oysters. — Drain the oysters in a colander 
or on a sieve, season with salt and pepper, roll in white 
corn-meal or crumbs, and brown quickly in a little clari- 
fled butter in a spider. Serve on a warm platter. 

Lyonnaise Potato. — Put two tablespoonfuls of clari- 
fled butter in a skillet or frying pan, and when melted 
add to it two tablespoonfuls of minced onion. Cook 
till the onion turns yellow, then add two cups of diced 
or hashed cold potato, with which a tablespoonful of 
minced parsley has been mixed, and which has been 
seasoned with salt and pepper. Cover and cook slowly 
until nicely browned on the under side, then fold like 
an omelet, and serve on a heated dish. If the cold 
potato is very dry two or three spoonfuls of sweet milk 
may be mixed with it before the parsley and seasoning 
are added. 

LESSON VI.— MIXING. 

Scalloped Meats and Vegetables. 
Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Have pupils prepare and cook macaroni. 

2. Prepare and scallop raw potatoes. 



Mixing. 83 



3. Scallop cold cooked potatoes. 

4. Scallop chicken or veal. 

5. Scallop oysters. 

6. Scallop macaroni. 

Formulas for Lesson VI. 

To Boil Macaroni. — See Lesson V., Term L 

Scalloped Potatoes No. i. — Pare and slice the pota- 
toes of a uniform thickness. Butter a baking dish and 
fill three quarters full with the prepared potatoes. Add 
milk until the potatoes are nearly covered, season to 
taste with salt and pepper, then sprinkle generously 
with bread crumbs, rolled and sifted. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven for half an hour, or until the potatoes are 
cooked and the crumbs browned. 

Scalloped Potatoes No. 2. — To three cups of cold 
boiled or baked potatoes cut into dice, sliced, or hashed, 
add a teaspoonful of minced parsley and a cup of white 
sauce made from cooking together one tablespoonful of 
butter, one teaspoonful of flour, and one cup of milk. 
Put in a buttered baking dish, cover with bread crumbs, 
and brown in the oven. 

Scalloped Chicken. — Free the cold chicken, either 
roasted, boiled, or fried, from skin and tough or sinewy 
bits, and cut in small pieces. To two cups of prepared 
chicken add one cup of white sauce, made from cooking 
together one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of 
flour, and one cup of thin cream. Cover with buttered 
bread crumbs and bake until the crumbs are nicely 
browned. 



84 ^ Text- Book of Cookery. 

Scalloped Oysters. — Drain a quart of oysters. To 
a pint of soft fine bread crumbs add salt and pepper 
sufficient to season the oysters properly. Mix the 
seasoning uniformly through the crumbs with a fork. 
Then enrich them by sprinkling through, and mixing 
with them, half a cup of melted butter. Take a fire- 
proof dish or baking pan not more than two inches 
deep, in which to cook the oysters. Scatter a thin 
layer of the seasoned crumbs over the bottom of the 
dish. Cover the crumbs with oysters, laying the oys- 
ters close together, but not overlapping each other. 
Sprinkle with the crumbs until nearly hidden from view, 
then add another layer of oysters and again sprinkle 
with crumbs. The top layer of crumbs should be 
heavier than either of the other layers — should contain 
fully one half the quantity of crumbs used — and but 
two layers of oysters should be put in the dish. Do 
not pour oyster juice, water, or liquid of any kind over 
the oysters after they are put in the dish. Bake in an 
oven, at the same temperature as for bread, for fifteen or 
twenty minutes, or until the crumbs on top are a rich 
chestnut brown. Remove from the oven as soon as 
cooked and serve at once, and the oysters will be 
plump, juicy, hot to the center, and surrounded by a 
delicious, moist coating of crumbs. 

Scalloped Macaroni. — To three or four cups of boiled, 
drained macaroni add one cup of thin white sauce and 
one tablespoonful of grated cheese. Cover with a layer 
of buttered bread crumbs and brown in a moderate 
oven. 



Mixing. 85 



LESSON VII.— MIXING. 

Pastry and Pies. 
Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Make flaky pie crust. Explain the enfolding of air 

between the layers of the pastry to give it light- 
ness. Give careful instruction in mixing and 
rolling ; also in the difference between bread and 
pastry flour. 

2. Have each pupil make flaky pie crust. 

3. Have a number of pupils prepare lemon filling for pie. 

4. Have several pupils make custard for pie. 

5. Have the remainder prepare apples for pie. 

6. Bake the pies. Give instruction as to temperature 

of oven, etc. 

7. Have all make cheese straws from remnants of pie 

crust. 

Formulas for Lesson VH. 

Flaky Pie Crust.— Three cups of flour, half a cup of 
butter, half a cup of lard, three fourths of a cup of ice 
water. 

Sift the flour into a chopping bowl, add the butter 
and lard, and chop with a hash knife until no pieces of 
the shortening larger than a pea can be seen. Then 
sprinkle the ice water here and there through the flour, 
and mix with a fork into a rather soft dough or paste. 
Pile upon a well-floured kneading board, dust lightly 
with flour, press down with the rolling-pin, and roll 
gently back and forth until the paste becomes an oblong 



86 A Text-Book of Cookery. 

sheet not more than half an inch in thickness. SHp a 
broad-bladed knife under each end of this sheet, and 
fold over toward the center, thus forming three layers 
of the paste. Lift, with the knife, from the board — 
which dust with fresh flour — lay it at right angles with 
the position it occupied when lifted, dust with flour, 
roll out, and again fold over as before. Repeat the 
operation, and the paste is ready to lay aside for future 
use, or to roll into form and use at once. 

Lemon Pie. — Two cups of boiling water, a cup and a 
half of sugar, half a cup of lemon juice, a tablespoonful 
of butter, a tablespoonful of cornstarch, grated peel of a 
lemon, three eggs. Mix the sugar and cornstarch well 
together, add them to the boiling water, and cook five 
minutes. Remove from the fire, add the butter, lemon 
juice and peel, and lastly the eggs, beaten very light. 
Line a deep pie-pan with paste, dust with flour, fill three 
fourths full with the mixture, and bake in a moderate 
oven till firm in the center. When cold sift powdered 
sugar over it and serve. 

Custard Pie. — To half a cup of granulated sugar add 
one tablespoonful of cornstarch, mix well, stir it into 
two cups of milk, boiling hot, and simmer five minutes. 
When cool add three well-beaten eggs and a pinch of 
salt. Line a deep pie-pan with paste, dust with flour, 
and fill three quarters full with the mixture. Bake in a 
moderate oven until firm in the center. Grate nutmeg 
over the top and serve cool. 

Apple Pie — Roll a piece of flaky pie crust to the 
thickness desired. Place upon a pie-pan or dish, shap- 



Mixing. 87 



ing It carefully to the dish, and cut off around the edges 
with a sharp knife. Cover the bottom of the crust with 
a thin layer of sugar, dust with flour, then fill the crust 
with quarters of pared and cored apples. Dust them 
lightly with salt and generously with sugar — especially 
if they are very tart — roll an upper crust and lay over 
them, trim around the edges as .before, press the upper 
and lower crusts together lightly, and bake half an hour, 
or until the apples are soft and the top and bottom 
crusts are both nicely browned. 

Cheese Straws. — Roll the same thickness as for pies. 
When rolled, cut in strips from six to ten inches wide, 
and cut the strips into straws or sticks a fourth of an 
inch in width. Lay upon baking sheets or shallow 
pans, leaving a space between the straws about a third 
as wide as the straws. Grate rich American cheese, 
season to taste with salt and red pepper, and scatter 
quite thickly over the straws, and over the spaces be- 
tween them also. Place in the oven where the greatest 
heat will be at the top, and bake ten or fifteen minutes, 
or until cooked. Remove from the oven, cut the cheese 
in the center of the spaces between the straws, and pile 
the straws on a plate in the form of a log cabin. 

LESSON VIII.— MIXING. 

Bread a7id Buns. 
Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Make cinnamon rolls from light bun dough. 

2. Make coffee cake from light dough. 



88 A Text-Book of Cookery. 

3. Make into loaves light dough mixed from graham 

flour. 

4. Make into loaves light dough from whole wheat flour. 

First and second divisions of work may be done 
successively ; third and fourth may be done at 
the same time. Divide the work so that each 
pupil shall handle some of the dough. 

5. Have a number of pupils mix bun dough. 

6. Have the remainder mix either whole wheat bread or 

graham bread. 

7. Give instruction concerning graham flour and entire 

wheat flour. 

8. Bake the buns, coffee cake, and bread. 

Formulas for Lesson VIH. 

Cinnamon Rolls. — Roll small pieces of bun dough, 
after it has risen the second time, into small rolls or 
sticks. Flatten with a limber knife and cover with 
melted butter, sugar, and cinnamon. Fold over and 
roll into circular cakes with one end in the center, and 
the other pinched to the outer surface, and place in a 
baking pan, an inch apart. Let rise two hours, and 
bake in a moderate oven. 

Coffee Cake. — Roll a piece of bun dough after it has 
risen the second time into a sheet half an inch thick, 
lay on a shallow baking pan, cover with granulated 
sugar, then with cinnamon, and lastly with melted but- 
ter. Let rise for two hours, or until very light, then 
bake in a moderate oven. 

Graham Bread. — To each pint of lukewarm wetting 



Mixing. 89 



composed of equal portions of sweet milk and water add 
a tablespoonful of sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a 
half-ounce cake of compressed yeast, dissolved in two 
tablespoonfuls of cold water. Then stir in with a 
wooden spoon a heaping quart of graham flour, or as 
much more as may be necessary to form a dough 
sufficiently stiff to be removed in a mass from the mix- 
ing bowl. Turn the dough on to the molding board, 
well sprinkled with white flour, and knead, adding 
white flour until the dough ceases to stick to the 
fingers or molding board. Then proceed exactly as for 
white flour bread, being careful not to make the dough 
as stiff as for white bread. Bread is made in the same 
manner from entire wheat, whole wheat, and peeled 
wheat flour. The sugar may be omitted from any of 
them, when desired. Graham bread requires to be 
baked a considerably longer time than white flour 
bread, as does also bread made of either whole wheat, 
entire wheat, or peeled wheat flour. Consequently the 
loaves should be smaller and should be baked at a 
somewhat lower temperature. 

Buns. — Two eggs, two cups of boiling milk, half cup 
of sugar, half cup of butter, one cake of compressed 
yeast, flour enough to make a dough. Beat the eggs 
very light, pour over them, beating meanwhile, the 
boiling milk, then add the sugar and salt. Let the 
mixture cool until lukewarm, then add the yeast, dis- 
solved in a little cold water, and stir in flour until a 
soft dough has been formed. Turn upon the mold- 
ing board and knead in flour gradually until the dough 



90 A Text-Book of Cookery. 

becomes smooth and elastic, but not stiff enough for 
bread, then put in a greased bowl, and set to rise for five 
hours, or until light. When light work in the butter, 
but do not add any more flour, and let rise for an 
hour, or until light, then form into buns or balls the 
size desired, place in a greased pan about an inch 
apart, and again let rise for two hours, or until light, 
then bake in a moderate oven. 

LESSON IX.— MIXING. 

Cake and Cookies. 
Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Make soft ginger cake. 

2. Have pupils make ginger cake. 

3. Make cup cake. 

4. Have pupils make cup cake. 

5. Make plain cookies. 

6. Have pupils make cookies. 

7. Make ginger wafers. 

8. Have pupils make wafers. 

Formulas for Lesson IX. 

Soft Ginger Cake. — Quarter of a cup of butter, half 
a cup of sugar, half a cup of sour milk, one cup of New 
Orleans molasses, two eggs, one tablespoonful of ginger, 
one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of soda, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, and three cups of flour. Sift 
the soda, salt, and spices with the flour. Cream the 
butter, add the sugar, then the milk, then the flour and 



Mixing and Seasoning. 91 

moldsses alternately. Beat well and bake in shallow 
pans in a moderate oven. 

Plain Cup Cake. — One fourth cup of butter, one and 
one half cups of sugar, one cup of milk, two eggs, 
three cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der. Cream the butter, add the sugar and eggs alter- 
nately, and beat well. Add the milk and the flour con- 
taining the baking powder alternately. 

Plain Sugar Cookies. — One half cup of butter, one 
cup of sugar, one fourth cup of milk, one ^z%, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Cream the butter and 
sugar, add the ^^^, and beat well. Sift the baking 
powder with two cups of flour, add it and the milk 
alternately. Use flour enough to roll out. 

Ginger Wafers. — One cup of butter, two cups of 
pulverized sugar, one cup of cold water, four cups of 
flour, ginger to taste. Cream the butter, add the 
sugar and ginger, then stir in the water and flour gradu- 
ally and alternately. Spread the mixture as thin as 
possible on a cold greased baking sheet, and bake in a 
moderate oven. As soon as done cut quickly, and 
while hot, into squares or diamonds, and roll, if desired. 



LESSON X.— MIXING AND SEASONING. 

Salads. 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

I. Make French dressing. Have two or three pupils 
work at the same time. 



92 A Text-Book of Cookery, 

2. Make mayonnaise dressing. 

3. Have pupils make cooked mayonnaise dressing. 

4. Have pupils prepare lettuce and cucumbers for 

salad. Put on ice. 

5. Prepare fish and make fish salad, using the cooked 

mayonnaise dressing. 

6. Prepare chicken and celery and make chicken salad, 

pupils working with teacher. 

7. Finish lettuce and cucumber salad. 

Formulas for Lesson X. 

French Dressing. — Put a tablespoonful of very sharp 
vinegar into a cup which has been iced or made cold, 
add salt and white pepper to taste, then add gradually, 
stirring meanwhile, three tablespoonfuls of olive oil. 
The salt should be almost as plain to the taste in the 
mixture as the vinegar. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. — In making this dressing select 
for use a Dover egg-beater and a large bowl-shaped 
coffee cup, or a pint bowl with straight sides. Have 
both well cooled with ice, also a fresh egg and the oil to 
be used for the dressing. Put the yolk of the egg into 
the cup and beat it for a few seconds before adding any 
oil. Beat in the oil, a few drops at a time, until it shows 
that it is combining perfectly with the egg, then add 
more freely. When the mixture becomes too stiff to 
beat easily add, one at a time, two teaspoonfuls of lemon 
juice or vinegar, which will thin it. Beat in more oil 
until again very stiff, when thin with acid as before. By 
thus alternating the oil and acid, a quart or more of oil 



Mixing ayid Seasoiiing. 93 

may be made into a light, thick, cream-colored dressing 
with only one &%% yolk. 

To Prepare Cucumbers. — Lay the cucumbers upon 
ice, or in cold water, until half an hour before serving, 
then pare and slice upon broken ice. Just before serv- 
ing drain off the water. 

To Prepare Lettuce. — Cut off the root and remove 
the outside leaves from each head. Then remove the 
other leaves one by one and place them in cold water. 
Rinse carefully, lay in a fine wire basket, and swing in 
a draft of air to dry off, or lay on a coarse towel and 
shake gently until dry. 

Lettuce and Cucumber Salad. — Sprinkle the French 
dressing upon the lettuce leaves, turning them over 
and about carefully until each leaf is covered with the 
dressing. Then arrange them in the salad bowl with 
the cucumbers in alternate layers. 

Fish Salad. — Pick into pieces suitable for serving 
any cold cooked fresh fish, freed from skin and bones. 
With two cups of prepared fish mix half a cup of 
cooked mayonnaise dressing. 

Chicken Salad. — Put four cups of cooked chicken, 
freed from skin, bones, and coarse pieces, and cut into 
dice, in an earthen bowl, and pour over it half a cup of 
French dressing. Make with one spoonful of oil to 
three of vinegar. Set in a cold place for an hour, drain 
through a sieve, mix with it three cups of white, tender 
celery cut in dice, and add, and mix lightly through it, 
a cup of oil mayonnaise dressing. Place in the salad 
bowl — heaping in the center — spread half a cup of 



94 A Text-Book of Cookery. 

mayonnaise dressing over it, sprinkle a spoonful of 
capers upon the dressing, and garnish with curled celery 
and water cress ; or with olives, lemon points, hard- 
boiled eggs, or lettuce. 

LESSON XI.— MIXING. 

Blanc- Mange and Custards. 
Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Make cornstarch blanc-mange. 

2. Make farina blanc-mange (pupils). 

3. Make creamed tapioca. 

4. Make creamed sago. 

5. Make baked tapioca pudding. 

6. Make sea moss blanc-mange. 

7. Make baked custard (pupils). 

8. Make Boiled Custard No. i (pupils). 

9. Make Boiled Custard No. 2 (pupils). 

Formulas for Lesson XL 
Cornstarch Blanc-Mange. — To two cups of boiling 
milk add one fourth of a cup of cornstarch mixed with 
the same quantity of granulated sugar, and salt to taste. 
Cook ten minutes, add the well-beaten yolks of two 
eggs, continue the cooking a couple of minutes, then 
remove from the fire, beat into the mixture the whites 
of the eggs beaten stiff, and lastly add a teaspoonful of 
extract of vanilla. Cool in molds wet with cold water, 
and serve with cream. 

Farina Blanc-Mange. — To five cups of boiling milk 



Mixing. 95 

add half a cup of farina — sprinkling it in slowly and 
stirring to prevent the formation of lumps — and a level 
teaspoonful of salt. Simmer gently half an hour, put 
in molds, and let cool. Serve with sugar and cream, 
or with fruit or boiled custard. 

Creamed Tapioca. — Soak a cup of tapioca in two 
cups of cold water for several hours. Drain, and put it 
into two cups of boiling milk, with a cup of sugar and 
half a teaspoonful of salt. Simmer gently for fifteen 
minutes, or until the tapioca is transparent, then add 
two eggs beaten very light, cook until creamy, and 
when cool flavor with vanilla. 

Creamed Sago. — To two cups of boiling milk add 
half a cup of sago by sprinkling in slowly and stirring it 
smooth. Add half a teaspoonful of salt and half a cup 
of sugar, and cook gently fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and put in a 
china bowl or dish. Beat the yolks with a tablespoon- 
ful of milk, and add to the pudding, and when cooked 
to a creamy consistency pour the boiling mixture over 
the beaten whites in the bowl, which will rise to the 
surface, slightly cooked. Dust with mace or grated 
nutmeg, and serve cold. 

Baked Tapioca Pudding. — Butter a quart pudding 
dish, cover the bottom with tart apples, pared and 
cored, and pour over them a cup of tapioca that has 
been soaked for several hours and drained. Add a dust 
of salt and a cup of boiling water. Sift a tablespoonful 
of granulated sugar over the top of the pudding, and 
bake until the tapioca is transparent and the apples are 



96 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

cooked and a light brown color. Serve warm or cold, 
as preferred, with sugar and cream. 

Sea Moss Blanc-Mange. — Wash a small handful of 
sea moss, Irish moss, or Iceland moss, free from sand 
and dust. Soak in cold water for half an hour, then 
put it in a quart of boiling milk, and let steep at boiling 
heat for twenty or thirty minutes. Test it by putting a 
spoonful to cool, and if it stiffens like jelly it has steeped 
long enough. When sufficiently steeped drain off the 
liquid, and sweeten and flavor to taste. Serve cold, 
with or without cream. 

Baked Custard. — To two cups of rich milk add a 
pinch of salt and four eggs beaten with four tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar. Stir well together, pour into cups 
brushed with melted butter, or into a pudding dish, and 
bake in a pan of water in a slow oven. As soon as the 
custard becomes stifi in the center it is sufficiently 
cooked. 

Boiled Custard No. i. — To two cups of boiling milk 
add a pinch of salt and the yolks of four eggs, beaten 
very light with one tablespoonful of cold milk. As soon 
as the ^%% stiffens pour it into a cold bowl and stir a 
minute to prevent curdling. Beat the whites of the 
eggs stiff, add gradually four tablespoonfuls of pulver- 
ized sugar and a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. When 
the custard is cold add the beaten eggs and sugar, whip 
all well together, and set on ice until ready to serve. 

Boiled Custard No. 2. — To three cups of boiling milk 
add two tablespoonfuls of flour, four tablespoonfuls of 
granulated sugar, and a pinch of salt, well mixed to- 



A Breakfast. 97 



gether. Simmer ten minutes, then add slowly — stirring 
rapidly meanwhile — the yolks of three eggs beaten light 
with one tablespoonful of cold milk, and cook to a 
creamy consistency. Put the beaten whites of the eggs 
in a china dish and pour the boiHng custard over them. 



LESSON XII.— A BREAKFAST. 

To be prepared by pupils and served to the class 
under supervision of teacher. Taken principally from 
dishes prepared and cooked during the second term. 



THIRD TERM. 

LESSON I.— BROILING, BAKING, AND MIXING. 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Have two or three pupils each prepare a bird and 

broil it in the oven. 

2. Make pop-overs. Have a small number of pupils 

make pop-overs at the same time. 

3. Have pupils prepare and cook potato balls for 

creamed potato balls. 

4. Have pupils prepare sliced tomatoes, also make a 

French or mayonnaise dressing for tomato salad. 

5. Have pupils broil liver (open fire). 

6. Have pupils broil lamb or mutton chops (open fire 

or gas). 

7. Finish creamed potato balls. 

Formulas for Lesson I. 

To Broil a Bird. — Lay the prepared bird on a towel, 
flatten with a rolling-pin, put in a wire broiler, place 
over the fire inside down, and let it remain in that 
position until well seared, then turn the broiler over, 
sear the skin side, and so turn and sear alternately until 
thoroughly broiled. Lift to a warm platter, season, and 
serve. 



Broiling, Baking, and Mixing. 99 

Pop-Overs. — One cup of flour, one cup of sweet milk, 
one egg, and a pinch of salt. Put the egg, flour, salt, 
and half the milk together in a small bowl, and with a 
Dover beater whip very light, then gradually add the 
balance of the milk. Half All deep gem-pans, and bake 
forty-five minutes in an oven at the same temperature 
as for bread. 

Creamed Potato Balls. — Cut the potato balls with a 
vegetable scoop, boil until tender, and serve with a thin 
white sauce. 

To Prepare Tomatoes. — Lay the tomatoes, stem end 
down, in a basin or bowl, and pour boiling water over 
them until they are completely covered with it. Let 
stand half a minute, then drain it off, and fill the bowl 
with cold water. Renew the water several times, if 
necessary, but do not handle the tomatoes until quite 
cold. As soon as the tomatoes are cold the skins can 
be removed quite easily. Lay them upon ice until just 
before serving, when the skins can be removed and the 
tomatoes sliced. 

To Broil Liver. — Dust the slices of prepared liver 
with flour, dip in melted butter, place in the broiler, and 
broil and serve like beefsteak. 

To Broil Chops — Mutton chops should have most of 
the fat removed from them and should be trimmed 
neatly, and broiled and served like beefsteak. A mut- 
ton chop should be at least an inch thick. 

Lamb chops should be trimmed, broiled, and served 
like mutton chops. As the fat of lamb is more delicate 
than the fat of mutton, a larger quantity of fat should 



lOo A Text- Book of Cookery. 

be left on a lamb than on a mutton chop. Lamb chops 
are frequently served on thin slices of dry toast. 



LESSON II BAKING. 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Make Boston brown bread (teacher and pupils). 

An illustration of baking by steam. 

2. Make corn-meal mush (pupils). 

3. Bake beans. Have beans in various stages of prep- 

aration ; also the finished product. 

4. Bake fish (boned and stuffed). 

5. Make corn -meal pudding. 

6. Bake tomatoes. 

7. Stew salsify. 

Formulas for Lesson II. 

Boston Brown Bread. — Two cups of corn-meal, two 
cups of graham flour, one cup of New Orleans molasses, 
three cups of sour milk or buttermilk, two even teaspoon- 
fuls of soda, two even teaspoonfuls of salt. Mix together 
the meal, flour, soda, and salt, add the molasses and 
milk, stir thoroughly, pour into a well-greased mold, 
cover closely, and steam four or five hours. 

To Bake Beans. — Soak a quart of white beans in 
cold water over night, or for eight or ten hours, then 
drain and put to cook in sufftcient cold water to cover 
them. Add a teaspoonful of salt and half a teaspoonful 
of soda, and as soon as the water boils drain it off. Put 
in the pot in which the beans are to be baked half a 



Baking. loi 



pound of salt pork or corned beef and a tablespoonful of 
white sugar, or twice as much New Orleans molasses. 
Pour in the beans, fill the pot to within an inch of the 
top with boiling water, cover with a close-fitting lid, 
and bake in a very moderate oven from twelve to 
eighteen hours. As the water evaporates replace it 
with sufftcient boiling water to keep the beans covered 
during the entire time they are in the oven. If the 
beans are liked browned they can be poured into a 
shallow baking pan and put in a hot oven until they are 
the color desired. 

To Bone a Fish.— Cut ofE its head and insert the 
point of the boning-knife close to the back-bone, under 
the small bones that lie near the inside surface of the 
fish. Slip the knife under these bones and carefully lift 
them from the fish, leaving the meat as little disturbed 
or broken as possible. With a round-pointed, dull- 
bladed knife scrape the flesh away from the back-bone 
and the bones that project into the fish therefrom, until 
they can be lifted away clear of the flesh ; then with the 
blade of the knife smooth and pack together the flesh 
that has been disturbed by removing them. It is not 
advisable to bone small fish, and all fish, as well as 
meats of every kind, are of finer flavor when cooked 
with the bones in them. 

Stuffing for Fish. — Enrich with butter one pint of 
soft bread crumbs, season with pepper, salt, and one 
tablespoonful of minced onion sauted in butter. Fill the 
fish with stuffing and sew it up. Put slices of pork or 
breakfast bacon in the baking pan, and lay the fish on 



I02 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

them. Cover the upper side in a similar manner with 
slices of pork or bacon, then set in the oven, and close 
the door until the fish is cooked. If the oven is at the 
proper temperature the fish will require no attention. 
A medium-sized fish will bake in three quarters of an 
hour. 

Baked Corn-meal Pudding. — To one cup of well- 
boiled corn-meal mush add one teaspoonful of butter, 
and one teaspoonful of ginger mixed with two table- 
spoonfuls of granulated sugar. Stir in gradually one 
cup of sweet milk, then add two well-beaten eggs. 
Bake in a buttered pudding dish until it is firm in the 
center and remove from the oven before it is wheyed. 
Serve warm, with sweet cream. 

Baked Tomatoes. — Wash and wipe medium-sized 
tomatoes, cut them in halves, and place, skin side 
down, in a baking dish. Then season with salt, pepper, 
and sugar, if liked, cover with buttered bread crumbs, 
and bake until the crumbs are nicely browned and the 
tomatoes well cooked. 

To Stew Salsify. — Pare, cut in pieces half an inch 
in length, stew half an hour, or till tender, drain, and 
serve with drawn butter or white sauce ; or mash fine, 
when drained, season with salt and pepper, add a 
little cream, and serve. Salsify should be laid in cold 
water as soon as pared, to keep it from becoming dis- 
colored. When food material becomes discolored from 
exposure to the atmosphere, such exposure injures its 
flavor perceptibly. Therefore great care should be ob- 
served to preserve the natural color of all food materials. 



Boiling. 103 



LESSON III BOILING. 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Have pupils make lamb fricassee. 

2. Steam fish. 

3. Have pupils steam rice. 

4. Have pupils steam potatoes. 

5. Boil eggs, soft and hard. 

6. Poach eggs (on toast). 

7. Have pupils make caramel blanc-mange. Caramel 

custard. (Test of proficiency. ) 

8. Have pupils make drawn butter sauce for the fish. 

(Test.) 

Formulas for Lesson \\\. 

Fricasseeing. — Stews are often, but incorrectly, termed 
fricassees. A fricassee is a combination of a saute and 
a stew, and the meat for a fricassee should always be 
sauted or browned before it is put to stew. This saute- 
ing or browning is best done in a small quantity of 
clarified butter, although drippings of beef or veal may 
be used, if preferred. 

To Fricassee Lamb. — Prepare the lamb as for stew- 
ing. Season the pieces with salt and pepper, roll in 
flour, fry or saut6 until light brown in color, then place 
in the stewing kettle. Put a pint of water in the pan in 
which the lamb was browned and after it has simmered 
five minutes pour it over the lamb. Cover the kettle 
closely and let the lamb simmer gently until cooked. 
Lift into a platter when done, and if there is not 
sufficient sauce add more water, and more flour, if 



I04 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

required, to that in the kettle, cook five minutes, and 
strain over the lamb. 

To Steam a Fish. — Dust a prepared fish, inside and 
outside, with salt. Dredge the outside lightly with 
flour, wrap in a cloth, and place in a steamer over 
boiling water. Cover the steamer closely, and cook 
until the fish will flake easily. A five-pound fish will 
steam in half an hour. Serve on a hot platter in a 
napkin. Serve with it, in a tureen, drawn butter, 
parsley sauce, ^^'g sauce, or sauce hollandaise. 

To Steam Rice. — Pick over and wash the rice. Put 
it in the dish in which it is to be served and add a level 
teaspoonful of salt and three cups of boiling water to 
each cup of rice. Set in a steamer over boiling water, 
and cook half an hour, or until the rice is tender. Milk 
may be mixed with the water in any proportion de- 
sired ; or, if preferred, milk alone may be used instead 
of water. 

To Steam Potatoes — Place the potatoes, either pared 
or unpared, in a steamer over boiling water. Cover 
closely and cook forty-five minutes, or until the potatoes 
are done, which can be ascertained by testing them 
with a fork. Serve in a napkin in a heated dish, and 
iold the corners of the napkin over the potatoes. 

Sweet potatoes can be steamed in the same manner. 

To Boil Eggs.— See Lesson IV., Term I. 

To Poach an Egg. — Break the ^g'g into a cup, from 
which slip it carefully into water at boiling temperature, 
but not actively boiling. Let it remain until cooked as 
desired, then lift from the water with a spatula or 



Boiling and Mixing. 105 

skimmer, and serve on dipped or buttered toast. The 
water in which eggs are poached should be well salted. 

LESSON IV.— BOILING AND MIXING. 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1 . Braise beef with spices and vegetables. 

2. Make brown soups. (Teacher and pupils.) 

3. Have pupils make plain batter puddings and steam 

them. 

4. Make fish chowder. 

5. Have pupils prepare and cook asparagus. 

6. Have pupils prepare and cook spinach. 

7. Have pupils make strawberry and vanilla sauces for 

puddings. 

Formulas for Lesson IV. 

Braising. — Braising, like fricasseeing, is a combina- 
tion of frying or sauteing and stewing. It is usually 
done, however, in an oven, in a braising pan having a 
close-fitting cover. The advantages of braising over 
stewing, for certain articles, are that a more uniform 
temperature can be obtained and the flavors of the 
food be better preserved on account of there being less 
evaporation. Braising is an excellent mode of cook- 
ing tough meats and poultry. 

To Braise Beef. — An aitchbone, or a piece from the 
upper part of the round, is a good cut for braising. 
Season lightly with salt and pepper, roll in flour, brown 
in clarified butter or drippings, in a frying pan or spider, 



io6 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

then put in a braising kettle with an onion, a carrot, 
a turnip, and three cloves. Add half as much water as 
for stewing, cover closely, set in a moderate oven, and 
let cook slowly for several hours. 

Mixed Stock. — Take the trimmings of beef, veal, 
mutton, lamb, or meat of any kind, the shank bone of 
a ham, the roots and trimmings of celery, the odds and 
ends of corn, beans, or peas, and an onion, a turnip, 
and a carrot. Skin, wash, or otherwise prepare them. 
Put them altogether into a stock pot — putting the 
bones in first — add salt, six or eight cloves, and a small 
pepper pod, if at hand, and cover with cold water. Set 
to cook, let simmer five hours, strain into a bowl, and 
let cool. When cool remove the grease and the stock 
will be ready for use. 

Brown Soup No. i — Cook together in a sauce-pan, 
until brown, one tablespoonful of butter and two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Add four cups of soup stock, sim- 
mer five minutes, season to taste, and serve. 

Brown Soup No. 2. — Cook together in a sauce-pan, 
until brown, one tablespoonful of butter and two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Add four cups of any kind of stock, 
one cup of strained tomato, one teaspoonful of sugar, 
and half a teaspoonful of curry powder. Simmer ten 
minutes, season to taste, and serve. 

Steamed Pudding. — Sift together two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, half a teaspoonful of salt, and two cups 
of flour. Rub into it two tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Add a cup of milk, make a dough soft enough to drop 
from the spoon. Fill a buttered pudding mold three 



Boiling and Mixing. 107 

fourths full of the dough and steam an hour and a 
half. 

Fish Chowder. — Prepare four cups of fresh codfish 
by removing the skin and bones and cutting the fish 
in 'pieces about an inch square. Cut a quarter of a 
pound of salt pork into thin slices. Divide the slices 
into strips and saute in a spider until brown and 
crisp. Put the browned pork into a sauce-pan and 
add to it a minced onion and a tablespoonful of but- 
ter. Pare and cut in dice a quart of potatoes. Break 
into pieces three or four pilot biscuit. To the pork 
and onion add the fish, potato, and biscuit in alternate 
layers. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Cover 
with hot water. Put a tight-fitting lid on the sauce- 
pan, and simmer gently for half an hour, or until the 
potato is cooked. Add two cups of hot cream or milk, 
and serve. 

To Boil Asparagus.— Wash the asparagus, tie it in 
small bundles, cook till tender, and serve on toast, with 
melted butter, white sauce, or sauce hollandaise. 

To Boil Spinach. — Put the prepared spinach in a 
small quantity of boiling water, cover closely, boil ten 
minutes, or till tender, drain in a colander, press out 
the water, season with salt, pepper, and butter. 

Strawberry Sauce. — Mix a tablespoonful of flour 
with a cup of granulated sugar, add a cup of hot water, 
simmer five minutes, remove from the fire, and stir into 
the mixture a cup of crushed strawberries and half a 
cup of creamed butter. 

Vanilla Sauce. — See Liquid Sauce. 



io8 A Text-Book of Cookery. 

LESSON v.— MIXING AND FRYING. 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Make nun's puffs. 

2. Have pupils make doughnuts with eggs and sweet 

milk. 

3. Have pupils make doughnuts with sour milk and 

soda. 

4. Have pupils make plain fritters. 

5. Have pupils make apple fritters. 

6. Fry nun's puffs. 

7. Fry corn-meal mush. 

Formulas for Lesson V. 

Nun's Puffs. — Put a cupful of water in a sauce-pan 
over the fire, add half a cupful, light measure, of butter, 
and when it boils stir in three fourths of a cupful of 
flour, and cook five minutes, stirring constantly with a 
wooden spoon. Remove from the fire, and when cool, 
not cold, stir in, one by one, four eggs. Drop, a tea- 
spoonful at a time, into hot grease, being careful not to 
get the frying kettle too full, as the puffs enlarge very 
much while cooking. Let them remain in the kettle 
about five minutes, drain carefully on cheese-cloth, and 
when cold dust with cinnamon and pulverized sugar. 
Or omit the cinnamon and sugar, make an incision in 
each puff, and fill with whipped cream flavored with 
vanilla and sweetened. 

Fried Doughnuts. — Sift three pints of flour into a 
mixing bowl. Make a well in the center, into which put 
half a pint of sugar, a quarter of a pint of sour milk, 



Mixing and Frying. 109 

two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of butter, a teaspoonful of 
soda, and an eighth of a nutmeg, grated. Mix these in- 
gredients well together, and work in the flour gradually 
until a dough is formed sufficiently stiff to be rolled 
upon a well-floured board into a sheet half an inch in 
thickness. Cut in any shape desired, fry in hot grease, 
and drain on cheese-cloth. When cold dust with pul- 
verized sugar. Sweet milk and a heaping teaspoonful 
of baking powder can be used in place of sour milk and 
soda. 

Plain Fritters — Stir together a pint of flour, half a 
pint of cold water, the yolks of four eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of olive oil or 
melted butter, and half a teaspoonful of salt. Beat with 
a Dover beater until very light, then mix in the whites 
of the eggs beaten stiff, and fry in hot grease, dropping 
in a tablespoonful at a time. Drain on cheese-cloth, 
dust with pulverized sugar, and serve. 

Apple Fritters. — Select smooth, medium-sized, sour 
apples. Pare whole, remove the cores, slice in rounds 
an eighth of an inch in thickness, dip in batter prepared 
as for plain fritters, fry in hot grease until a nice brown, 
drain on cheese-cloth, dust with pulverized sugar, and 
serve. 

Fried Mush. — Cut cold mush into squares, cubes, or 
oblong pieces a suitable size for serving, cover with 
flour and meal sifted together, dip in ^%^ batter, roll in 
crumbs, fry in a basket in hot fat, until a rich brown 
color, drain on cheese-cloth, and serve in a napkin ; or 
use to garnish broiled or fried chicken or fish. 



no A Text- Book of Cookery, 

LESSON VI.— MIXING. 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Scallop eggs. 

2. Scramble eggs. 

3. Shirr eggs. 

4. Make creamy omelet. 

5. Have pupils make creamy omelet. 

6. Make omelet souffle. 

7. Have pupils make omelet souffle. 

Formulas for Lesson VL 

Scalloped Eggs. — Slice or dice cold boiled eggs, put 
them in a buttered baking dish, cover with white sauce, 
and heat to boiling point in a moderate oven. 

Scrambled Eggs. — Put in an omelet pan half a tea- 
spoonful of butter for each egg. When the butter is 
hot pour in the eggs, without beating, and when set on 
the bottom of the pan mix or scramble them lightly with 
a fork or spoon. Cook as desired, season to taste, and 
serve. Minced parsley is an excellent flavoring for 
scrambled eggs. 

Shirred Eggs. — Put in a shirred egg dish a teaspoon- 
ful of melted butter for each egg. Break the eggs 
separately, slip carefully into the dish, bake to taste 
in a moderate oven, season with salt and pepper, and 
serve. 

Creamy Omelet. — Beat together lightly four eggs and 
four teaspoonfuls of water, milk, or cream, just enough 



Mixing. Ill 



to break and mix sufficient to allow a spoonful of the 
mixture to be dipped up. Heat, but be careful not to 
brown, a tablespoonful of butter in an omelet pan. 
Have a pan that will correspond in size to the number 
of eggs used, so that the beaten mixture will cover the 
bottom to the depth of at least half an inch. Pour in 
the mixture and place the pan over a quick heat, add 
salt and pepper to taste, and as soon as the ^%% ' ' sets ' ' 
or stiffens slightly upon the bottom of the pan lift it up 
lightly and carefully with a fork, so the uncooked ^^^ 
can take the place of that which is cooked. Continue 
this lifting process as long as there is any uncooked ^'g% 
in the pan, and until all the mixture lies in a soft creamy 
pile of a delicate golden hue. Permit the bottom to set 
quite firmly, then tip the pan slightly, loosen the edges 
with a broad-bladed, limber knife, or spatula, slip it 
under one side of the omelet, and fold over, tipping 
the pan at the same time to facilitate the folding. Then, 
by still further tipping the pan, turn the omelet, nicely 
folded, on a platter and serve hot. 

Omelet Soufae. — To the well-beaten yolks of two 
eggs add three teaspoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful 
of lemon juice, and half a teaspoonful of lemon, orange, 
vanilla, or any flavoring extract liked. Beat very light 
and fold in the whites of four eggs beaten stiff. Put in 
a hot omelet pan, well greased, and cook ten or twelve 
minutes, in a very moderate oven. Slip on to a warm 
dish, without folding. A pinch of cream of tartar 
added to the whites of the eggs improves all omelets 
containing no other acid. 



112 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

LESSON VII.— MIXING. 

Suet and Egg Pastry. 
Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Make suet pastry. 

2. Have pupils make suet pastry. 

3. Make meat pie. 

4. Make suet pudding. 

5. Make ^gg pastry. 

6. Have pupils make egg pastry into strudels and 

noodles. 

7. Rewarm cold meats in sauces. 

8. Make hash. 

9. Have a number of pupils use suet pastry for meat 

pies ; others use suet pastry for dumplings. Steam 
in cups and cloths. 

Formulas for Lesson VIL 

Suet Pastry. — To three cups of flour add one cup of 
finely shredded beef suet, three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, and one teaspoonful of salt. Mix, with cold 
water, or cold sweet milk, to a soft dough. 

Beefsteak Pie. — Line the sides of a pudding dish 
with suet pastry, and fill three fourths full with un- 
cooked beefsteak, diced, minced, or hashed, and 
seasoned to taste. With every cup of prepared meat 
mix a level teaspoonful of flour, cover with a crust, and 
bake until the pie is cooked. 

Suet Pudding. — Prepare like suet pastry, and mold 
with the tips of the fingers into an oval-shaped loaf. 



Mixing. 113 



about three times as long as wide. Wring a napkin 
from hot water, dust with flour, lay the loaf upon it, 
fold the napkin up over the loaf, place in a steamer, 
and cook an hour and a half. Serve with liquid sauce 
from which the butter has been omitted. 

Egg Pastry. — To one ^%'g, slightly beaten, add a 
pinch of salt, a tablespoonful of melted butter, and 
flour sufficient to make a soft dough. Knead in the 
flour with the finger-tips until the dough is smooth 
and very elastic, and can be kneaded without flour and 
without sticking to the molding board. When prop- 
erly made, ^^g paste can be rolled as thin as a sheet of 
paper. 

Apple Strudels. — Roll out a piece of ^^'g pastry until 
it is large enough to cover a pie-pan, but only half as 
thick as flaky pie crust. Cover it nearly to the edge 
with sour apples sliced very thin and seasoned to taste 
with sugar and ground cinnamon. Roll up like a roly- 
poly, pinch the edges securely together, lay upon a 
greased pan, and bake half an hour, or until cooked. 
Serve warm. 

Noodles — Roll ^gg pastry very thin, dust lightly 
with flour, roll up, and cut in shreds. Boil in salted 
water twenty minutes. 

Creamed Meats. — To one cup of white sauce seasoned 
with celery, parsley, or onion, add two cups of cold 
turkey, chicken, veal, or fish, freed from skin and 
bones and cut in dice. Cook until thoroughly heated. 

Meats Rewarmed in Brown Sauce. — To two thirds of 
a cup of brown sauce add one third of a cup of strained 



114 ^ Text- Book of Cookeyy. 

tomato, season to taste with salt and pepper, and add 
to it two cups of cold meat (beef, mutton, lamb, or 
other dark meat preferred), cut in dice. Simmer five 
minutes and serve. 

Breakfast Hash. — To one cup of coarsely hashed 
cold boiled or baked potato add one cup of finely- 
hashed cold meat, either beef, veal, lamb, chicken, or a 
mixture of any or all of them, season to taste with salt 
and pepper, add two or three tablespoonfuls of broth, 
gravy, milk, or cream, and brown in a buttered pan on 
the range, or in the oven. Or heat thoroughly, with- 
out browning, if preferred. 



LESSON VIII.— MIXING. 

Croquettes. 
Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Make Chicken or Veal Croquettes No. i. 

2. Make Chicken or Veal Croquettes No. 2. 

3. Make potato croquettes. 

4. Cook rice croquettes. 

5. Have pupils make French toast. 

6. Have pupils make tropical toast. 

7. Have pupils make Japanese fritters. 

8. Saut6 bananas. 

9. Bake bananas. 

Have each pupil make croquettes. 

Formulas for Lesson VIIL 
Chicken Croquettes No. i. — To one cup of finely 



Mixing. 115 



chopped chicken, either boiled, stewed, or roasted, add 
half a cup of bread crumbs, softened in half a cup of 
sweet cream, one teaspoonful of melted butter, salt and 
pepper to taste, and the unbeaten white of an ^^^. 
Mix-well together, fry in spoonfuls in hot fat, drain on 
cheese-cloth, and serve in a napkin, garnished with 
lemon points and curled parsley. 

Chicken Croquettes No. 2. — To half a cup of white 
sauce, made by cooking together one tablespoonful of 
butter and one of flour with half a cup of sweet cream, 
add a cup of cooked chicken, finely hashed, a teaspoon- 
ful of minced onion, half a teaspoonful of minced 
parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Spread on a 
greased plate to cool, and when cold form into cro- 
quettes, cover with q%% batter, roll in crumbs, fry in a 
basket in hot fat, and drain on cheese-cloth. 

Potato Croquettes. — Peel and boil one medium-sized 
onion and three potatoes. Drain, dry off, mash fine, 
add a tablespoonful of rich cream and a teaspoonful of 
butter, or a tablespoonful each of butter and milk — an 
additional spoonful of milk may be added if necessary 
to make the mixture sufficiently soft — season with salt 
and pepper, and beat with a wooden spoon till light. 
When slightly stiffened by cooling, shape into any form 
desired by rolling lightly under the hand on a smooth 
board, cover with crumbs, then with ^%^ batter, then 
again with crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 

Rice Croquettes. — To a cupful of boiled rice add 
half a cupful of sweet milk, a tablespoonful of sugar, 
and a teaspoonful of butter. Put in a sauce-pan over 



Ii6 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

the fire and simmer gently, stirring frequently, until the 
rice has absorbed the milk. Remove and, when slightly 
cooled, flavor with half a teaspoonful of lemon extract, 
add the white of an egg, unbeaten, fry in hot grease, 
dropping in a spoonful at a time, drain on cheese-cloth, 
and serve with pulverized sugar or with fruit sauce. 

French Toast. — Beat one egg very light, gradually 
beat into it a cup of sweet milk, and add a generous 
pinch of salt. Remove the crust from half a dozen 
slices of bread about a quarter of an inch thick, lay 
them upon a platter, and pour part of the egg and 
milk mixture over them. After they have soaked a 
minute turn them over carefully, add the balance of the 
mixture, and after they have soaked another minute 
drain and saute in clarified butter until richly browned. 
Serve hot with a liquid sauce, in place of a pudding, or 
serve at breakfast, without sauce. 

Tropical Toast. — Prepare and cook the slices of bread 
as for French toast. To one cup of well-cooked raisins 
add half a cup of flaked pine-apple, and half a cup of 
orange pulp cut in small pieces. Sweeten to taste. 
Heat all together and serve a spoonful of fruit on each 
slice of toast. Or the pine-apple may be omitted, and 
half a cup of thinly sliced bananas used in its place. 

Japanese Fritters. — Cut slices of bread one inch 
thick, one inch wide, and four inches long. Prepare as 
for French toast, roll in dried bread crumbs, and fry in 
deep fat. Serve with a fruit sauce. 

To Saute Bananas — Peel the bananas, split them in 
halves lengthwise, dust with sugar, roll in melted butter^ 



Mixing. 117 



and cook till brown in a spider over the fire, or in a 
roasting pan in a hot oven. 

To Bake Bananas — Peel the bananas, roll in melted 
butter and granulated sugar, lay a little distance apart 
in a- roasting pan, and brown in a hot oven. Shake the 
pan occasionally while the bananas are baking. 

LESSON IX.— MIXING. 

Sp07ige Cake Mixtures.^ 
Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Make sponge cake. (Teacher and pupils working 

together. ) 

2. Make angel cake. (Teacher and pupils.) 

3. Make sunshine cake. (Teacher and pupils. ) 

Formulas for Lesson IX. 

Sponge Cake. — Ten eggs, their weight in fine granu- 
lated sugar, half their weight in flour, juice and grated 
rind of a lemon. Break the eggs, separate the whites 
from the yolks, and reject two of the yolks. Put the 
eight yolks, with the lemon juice and grated peel, into a 
bowl and whip very light with a Dover beater, then 
beat in gradually two thirds of the sugar. Beat the 
whites of the eggs stiff, and whip into them the 
remaining third of the sugar. Add the yolks to the 
whites, folding in carefully, then add the flour, sifting it 
in a little at a time, and mixing it carefully, by folding 
rather than by beating. Bake in a moderate oven from 

1 See "The Art of Cookerj- " for further information on cake-making. 



ii8 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

twenty minutes to an hour, according to the depth of 
the pans. 

Angel Cake. — One cup of white of egg, one heaping 
cup of winter wheat flour, one and a half cups of fine 
granulated sugar, one level teaspoonful of cream of tar- 
tar, one teaspoonful of almond extract. Eggs vary so 
much in size that it is better to take a certain measure of 
the white than a certain number of the eggs. Put the 
measured whites in an earthen bowl, break lightly with 
an egg whip, sift in the cream of tartar, and beat until 
the egg will cling to the bowl and not slip out if the 
bowl is turned upside down, then beat the sugar into 
the eggy sifting it in gradually, add the flavoring, and 
lastly sift in the flour, stirring only enough to combine 
it with the egg and sugar. Put the mixture in an un- 
greased pan, the bottom of which has been covered 
with white paper, place carefully in an oven of moderate 
temperature, and cover with a baking sheet or tin, so as 
to protect the top of the cake but not exclude the air. 
Remove the cover in half an hour — when the cake 
should be perfectly risen — and bake half an hour longer. 
When taken from the oven turn the pan bottom up- 
wards, and if it has no center tube rest it upon cups or 
bowls until the cake is perfectly cold, then remove by 
slipping a thin-bladed knife between the cake and the 
sides of the pan. Success in making angel cake de- 
pends largely upon having an oven of the proper 
temperature. If the oven is too warm the cake will be 
tough. 

Sunshine Cake. — Yolks of the eggs used for the 



Mixing. 119 



angel cake and one whole ^%%, one cup of water, 
one and one half cups of fine granulated sugar, three 
cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one 
teaspoonful of vanilla, one of orange extract, three 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Beat the eggs, adding 
the sugar gradually, until very light. Add the water 
with the flavoring, and the flour with the baking powder 
alternately. Stir in the melted butter. Beat well and 
bake at a slightly greater heat than is required for 
angel cake. 



LESSON X.— MIXING. 

Gelatine Jellies. 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Lemon jelly. 

2. Orange jelly. 

3. Snow pudding. 

4. Charlotte russe. 

5. Coffee cream. 

6. Custard for snow pudding. 

Apportion the work, and let each pupil put to soak 
the amount of gelatine necessary, at the begin- 
ning of the lesson. 

Give instruction in the use of gelatine. 

Formulas for Lesson X. 

Lemon Jelly. — To one third of a box of gelatine add 
one cup of cold water, soak an hour, add a cup of hot 



I20 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

water, half a cup of lemon juice, a teaspoonful of lemon 
extract, and two cups of granulated sugar. Stir until 
the sugar is dissolved, then set on ice until jellied and 
ready to serve. 

When phosphated or acidulated gelatine is used in 
making lemon jelly or snow pudding omit the juice of 
one lemon ; when it is used in making jellies, puddings, 
creams, etc. , of other fruits omit the lemon juice entirely. 

Orange Jelly. — To one third of a box of gelatine add 
one cup of cold water, let soak an hour, add half a cup 
of boiling water, one cup of granulated sugar, one cup 
of orange juice, the juice of one lemon, and a teaspoon- 
ful of orange extract. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, 
then set on ice until jeUied and ready to serve. 

Snow Pudding. — Prepare lemon jelly as directed, and 
when it begins to jelly and is slightly thickened all 
through, whip with a Dover beater until perfectly light, 
then add the whites of three eggs beaten stiff, to which 
has been added a pinch of salt and three tablespoonfuls 
of granulated sugar. Whip all well together, and set 
on ice until firm. Serve with a boiled custard. 

Charlotte Russe. — To one fourth of a box of gelatine 
add half a cup of cold water and soak an hour, then add 
half a cup of hot milk and a tablespoonful of granulated 
sugar. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, strain into a 
two-quart bowl, surrounded with ice and water, and add 
a cup of cold cream and a teaspoonful of vanilla ex- 
tract. When the liquid begins to jelly beat vigorously 
with a Dover egg-beater until it is very light, then add 
the whites of two eggs beaten light, to which has been 



Ice Cream and Ices. 121 

added a pinch of salt and two tablespoonfuls of granu- 
lated sugar. Remove the beater, and, with a strong 
whip or a wooden spoon, beat into the mixture a pint 
of whipped cream. Pour into molds, and set on ice till 
ready to serve. 

Coffee Cream. — Add to one third of a box of soaked 
gelatine one and one half cups of strong hot cof!ee. Stir 
until dissolved, add one cup of white sugar made into 
caramel. When cool and beginning to jelly, whip with 
a Dover egg-beater until light. Add two cups of 
whipped cream, and put in a cold place till served. 

Boiled Custard. — To two cups of boiling milk add a 
pinch of salt and the yolks of three eggs, beaten very 
light with one tablespoonful of cold milk. As soon as 
the ^%% stiffens pour it into a cold bowl, and stir a 
minute to prevent curdling. 

LESSON XI.— ICE CREAM AND ICES.' 

Arrangement of Lesson. 

1. Lemon ice. 

2. Orange ice. 

3. Ice Cream No. i. 

4. Ice Cream No. 2. 

5. Mousse. 

Work divided among pupils, directed by teacher. 

Formulas for Lesson XL 
Lemon Ice. — To four cups of boiling water add two 

1 " Principles of Artificial Freezing," Youmans's " Handbook of Household 
Science." 



122 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

cups of sugar, boil five minutes, remove from the fire, 
add half a cup of lemon juice and a teaspoonful and a 
half of lemon extract. Strain, pour into a freezer, and 
freeze. 

Orange Ice. — To two cups of boiling water add a cup 
and a half of granulated sugar, boil five minutes, re- 
move from the fire, add two cups of orange juice, the 
juice of a lemon, and a teaspoonful and a half of orange 
extract. Strain, pour into a freezer, and freeze. 

Ice Cream No. i. — To one quart of thin cream add 
three quarters of a cup of granulated sugar and one 
tablespoonful of vanilla extract. Strain and freeze. 

Ice Cream No. 2. — To one pint of boiling milk add 
three quarters of a cup of granulated sugar and one 
tablespoonful of flour, sifted together. Cook five min- 
utes, add a pint of thin cream, let boil, and remove 
from the fire. When cold flavor to taste with vanilla or 
lemon extract, add the unbeaten whites of two eggs, 
and freeze. 

Mousse. — Flavor one pint of rich cream with one 
teaspoonful of vanilla and one half cup of sugar made 
into caramel. When very cold whip, put into a mold, 
pack in ice, and let stand from one to three hours. 



LESSON XII.— A DINNER. 

Prepared and served by class to six guests. 



APPENDIX. 



APPENDIX. 

I. 

Individual Proportions. 

The following formulas from Lessons VIII., IX., X. 
of the first term have been prepared as an illustration of 
the manner of reducing them for individual practice in 
the classroom. These formulas have simply been 
divided by four, and in a similar manner most of the 
formulas can be easily divided when desirable. 

LESSON VIII. 

Wheat Muffins No. i.— One half cup of flour, one 
fourth cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of melted 
butter, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one half salt- 
spoonful of salt. 

Wheat Muffins No. 2.— Three fourths cup of flour, 
one half cup of thick sour milk, one fourth teaspoonful 
of soda, one half salt-spoonful of salt. 

Griddle Cakes. — One half cup of flour, one third cup 
of sweet milk, one half teaspoonful of baking powder, 
one teaspoonful of melted butter, one third of an egg, 
salt. 

LESSON IX. 

Baking Powder Biscuit. — One half cup of flour, 

125 



126 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

one fourth cup of sweet milk, one half teaspoonful of 
baking powder, one half salt-spoonful of salt. 

Corn Muffins. — One half cup of granulated corn-meal, 
three eighths cup of boiling water, one fourth cup of cold 
sweet milk, one teaspoonful of sugar, one half teaspoon- 
ful of salt, half an egg. 

LESSON IX. 

Corn-bread. — One half cup of corn-meal, five eighths 
cup of boiling milk, one half teaspoonful of butter, one 
teaspoonful of sugar, one half teaspoonful of salt, one 

LESSON X. 

Vegetable Soup. — One half cup of beef stock, one 
tablespoonful of carrot, one tablespoonful of turnip, one 
tablespoonful of onion, one tablespoonful of tomato, one 
salt-spoonful of minced parsley. 

Bread and Butter Pudding No. i. — Butter one slice 
of stale bread thinly on both sides, and cover the bot- 
tom of a shallow dish. Pour as much sweet milk over 
the bread as it will absorb, then pour over it a custard 
made from two thirds of a cup of milk, one fourth salt- 
spoonful of salt, and one well-beaten egg. Bake, and 
serve hot with creamed butter and sugar. 

Bread and Butter Pudding No. 2. — Prepare the same 
as No. I, adding one tablespoonful of sugar to the cus- 
tard. Dust with nutmeg and serve cold. 

Bread and Butter Pudding No. 3. — Prepare the same 
as No. I , but add to the custard two tablespoonfuls of 
caramel. 



Appendix. 127 



II. 



Utensils Required for Twelve Pupils in a 
Classroom. 

- China-ware. — i dozen custard cups ; i dozen 
half-pint bowls ; i dozen pint bowls ; i dozen quart 
bowls ; I dozen two-quart bowls ; 6 three-quart bowls : 
2 four-quart bowls; 12 plates, small size; 12 plates, 
large size ; 1 2 cups and saucers ; i set of platters ; 5 
small vegetable dishes ; 6 larger vegetable dishes ; 2 
two-quart pitchers ; 2 quart pitchers ; 2 pint pitchers ; 
1 2 shirred ^'g^ dishes. 

Granite- WARE.— 12 double boilers, one quart; 12 
quart sauce-pans ; 6 three-pint sauce-pans ; 6 two- 
quart sauce-pans; 12 stew-pans, one quart; i three- 
quart kettle ; I four-quart kettle; 12 pie-pans, smallest 
size ; 6 pie-pans, largest size ; i roasting pan, 14x10 
inches ; 2 roasting pans, smaller size ; i fish-pan ; 2 
basting spoons ; 6 omelet pans ; i tea kettle ; i griddle 
spade ; i colander ; i coffee pot ; i tea pot ; i pitcher, 
three pints. 

Wooden-ware. — 6 roUing-pins ; 4 wooden spoons, 
various sizes ; i potato masher ; i chopping tray ; i 
tray for knife cleaning ; 3 meat boards ; i bread board ; 
I potato sheer ; 2 pastry brushes ; i nest of boxes ; i 
nest of buckets. 

Glass. — i dozen quart fruit jars ; i dozen pint fruit 
jars ; 6 lemon reamers. 

Linen. — Dish towels ; dish cloths ; hand towels ; 
holders ; cheese-cloth. 



128 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

Steelware. — I carving knife and fork; i bread 
knife; i vegetable scoop ; i large boning knife ; i medium 
boning knife ; i steel knife-sharpener ; scales ; skewers ; 
I can opener ; i cork screw ; i set of Christy knives. 

Ironware. — i deep Scotch frying kettle ; 3 grid- 
dles, various sizes ; 2 wire baskets for frying ; 3 toast- 
ing forks. 

Tinware. — 2 wire broilers ; i oyster broiler ; small 
scoops ; spice boxes and tray ; 1 2 small bread-pans, 4x3 
inches ; 1 2 small cake-pans, round ; 6 brick loaf bread- 
pans ; pans for soup sticks ; pans for finger rolls ; pans 
for long French rolls ; 6 gingerbread or biscuit pans ; 3 
sets of muffin pans ; 3 sets of gem-pans, square ; 12 patty 
pans ; 6 biscuit cutters ; 6 doughnut cutters ; i squash 
strainer ; i soup strainer ; i sink strainer ; dish-pans ; 
I ice cream freezer ; i ice shovel ; i ice pick, shaver ; i 
meat cutter ; i wire potato masher ; i steam cooker ; i 
large-mouthed funnel ; 2 smaller funnels ; 2 flour sieves ; 
I grater, medium size ; 2 smaller graters ; i whip churn ; 
I lemon squeezer ; 2 ^gg poachers. 

Each Member of the Class Requires. — 2 
measuring cups, one divided into quarters, the other 
divided into thirds ; i flour dredge ; i salt dredge ; 

1 pepper dredge ; i knife and fork ; i paring knife ; 

2 wooden spoons, one small size and one larger ; i 
Daisy egg-beater ; i Dover egg-beater, small ; i fine 
strainer or sifter ; i tablespoon ; i teaspoon ; i salt- 
spoon ; I palette knife, medium size ; square oil cloth, 
12x12 inches; i vegetable brush; i molding board; 
if pupils wash the dishes, i dish-pan. 



Appendix. 129 



III. 
Reference Books for Teachers. 

Mrs. E. P. Ewmg: ''The Art of Cookery." 
.Mathieu Williams : ' ' Chemistry of Cookery. ' ' 
Sir Henry Thompson : ' ' Food and Feeding. ' * 
Sir Henry Thompson: ''Diet in Health and Dis- 
ease. ' ' 

/ Bumey Yeo : "Food in Health and Disease." 
Prof. W. O. Atwater : " Chemistry and Economy of 
Food." 

U. S. Department of Agriculture : Bulletin No. 21. 
Atwater : ' ' Foods : Nutritive Value and Cost. ' ' Bul- 
letin No. 23. 

Atwater: " Food and Diet." 

Chas. D. Woods : ' ' Meats : Composition and Cook- 
ing." Bulletin No. 34. 

The University of Chicago : ' ' Our Food, Its Compo- 
sition and Nutritive Value." Syllabus No. 89. 
Edward Atkinson : ' ' Science of Nutrition. ' ' 
Youmans : "Handbook of Household Science." 
fohjiston : " Chemistry of Common Life." 
Dr. Mary H Green : ' ' Food Products of the 
World." 

Goodfellow : " Dietetic Value of Bread." 
fago : ' ' Chemistry of Wheat Flour and Bread. ' ' 
Mrs. Helen Campbell: "Household Economics." 
Goodholm : ' ' Domestic Cyclopedia. ' ' 
Mrs. Ellen H. Richards: "Chemistry of Cooking 
and Cleaning." 



130 A Text- Book of Cookery. 

T. Mitchell Prudden, M.D.: ''Dust and its Dangers.'* 
Prudden : ' ' Story of the Bacteria. ' ' 
Theodore Child: '' Delicate Feasting. " 
Schutzenberger : ' ' Fermentation. ' * 



INDEX TO FORMULAS. 



Apple strudels .... 

Apples, to bake, No. i 

No. 2 

*' to saut^ . . . 

** to stew . . . 
Asparagus, to boil . . 

Bacon, to saut^ . . . 
Baking powder biscuit 
Bananas, to bake . . 
" to saut^ . . 

Beans, to bake .... 
Beef, to braise .... 

* ' to prepare a roast of 

' * to roast . 
Bird, to boil a . 
" to draw a . 
Blanc-mange, cornstarch 

" " farina . 

'* " sea moss 

Boston brown bread . 

Braising 

Bread, compressed yeast 

" liquid yeast 

" to toast . . 
Bread-making . . 
Breakfast, a . . . 

Buns 

Butter and sugar, creamed 



113 
34 
34 
81 
40 

107 

44 

60 

117 

116 

100 

105 

33 

33 

98 

70 

94 

94 

96 

100 

105 

52 

55 

31 

45 

97 

89 

66 



Cabbage, to boil 37 



Cake, angel 118 

coffee 88 

plain cup 91 

soft ginger 90 

sponge 117 

sunshine 118 

Calf's liver, to saute ... 44 

Carrots, to boil 37 

Cereals, to cook 39 

Charlotte russe 121 

Cheese straws 87 

Chicken gravy 76 

" scalloped .... 83 

" to boil a 71 

** to roast a .... 74 

Chops, to broil 99 

Clarified butter 43 

Codfish balls 80 

Coffee, to make 41 

Cookies, plain sugar ... 91 

Corn-bread 63 

Corn-meal 61 

Cranberries, to stew ... 75 

Cream, coffee 120 

Crescents 58 

Croquettes, chicken, No. i. 114 
*' " No. 2. 115 

*' potato .... 115 

** rice 115 

Crumbs for frying .... 44 
" to prepare .... 93 



131 



132 



Index to Formulas. 



Cucumbers, to prepare . . 93 

Custard, baked 96 

** boiled 120 

No. I . . 96 
No. 2 . . 96 

Dinner, a 122 

Doughnuts, fried 108 

Drawn butter 38 

Dressing, cream 67 

** French .... 92 

'* mayonnaise . 67, 92 

Dumplings 79 

Eggs, scalloped 110 

" scrambled no 

" shirred no 

" to boil 36 

' ' to poach 104 

Fish cakes, to saut6 ... 81 

" chowder 107 

** to bone a loi 

" to broil a 72 

" to fry 43 

** to steam a 104 

Flour 47 

Fowl, to boil a 77 

" to draw a 70 

" to pick a 69 

** to wash a 71 

Fricasseeing 103 

Fritters, apple 109 

" Japanese . . . .116 
" plain 109 

Graham bread 89 

Gravy, chicken 76 

** for roast pork ... 76 



Gravy, plain 41 

'* roast beef 34 

Griddle cakes, com ... 63 

" " wheat. No. i 59 

*' No. 2 60 

Hash 114 

Ice cream No. i 122 

'• No. 2 122 

" lemon 121 

*' orange 122 

Jelly, lemon 119 

" orange 120 

Lamb, to boil a leg of . . 36 

" to fricassee .... 103 

" to prepare a leg of . 35 

Lettuce, to prepare .... 93 

Liver, to broil 99 

Luncheon, a 68 

i 

Macaroni, scalloped ... 84 

" to boil 39 

Meats, creamed 113 

" rewarmed 113 

Mousse 122 

Muffins, corn 63 

** wheat. No. i . . . 59 
" No. 2 . . . 59 

Mush, corn-meal 40 

" fried 109 

Mutton broth 38 

' ' to boil a leg of . . 36 
" to prepare a leg of. 35 

Noodles 113 



Index to Formulas. 



133 



Omelet, creamy no 

souffle Ill 

Onions, to stew 77 

Oysters, scalloped .... 84 

" to boil 73 

to fry 81 

" to saut^ 82 

Parsley butter 73 

Pastry, ^%% 113 

*' suet 112 

Pie, apple 86 

beefsteak 112 

crust, flaky 85 

custard 86 

lemon 86 

scrap meat 61 

Pop-overs 99 

Pork, to roast 75 

Potato balls, creamed . . 99 

*' lyonnaise 82 

*' salad 68 

Potatoes, browned sweet . 76 

" browned white . 76 

'* scalloped, No. i . 83 

No. 2 . 83 

" to bake .... 34 

" to boil 37 

" to fry 42 

" to prepare ... 33 

" to saute .... 81 

" to steam .... 104 

Pudding, baked apple . . 65 
" baked corn-meal 102 

" baked tapioca . 95 

" bread and butter, 

No. I .... 64 
*' bread and butter, 

No. 2 .... 65 



Pudding, bread and butter, 


No. 3 .... 


65 


" graham . . . 


77 


" snow .... 


120 


'* steamed .... 


106 


'* suet 


112 


Puffs, nun's 


108 


Raisins, to clean 


77 


Rice, to boil 


37 


'' to steam 


104 


" to wash 


37 


Rolls, cinnamon .... 


88 


" French, No. i . . 


57 


No. 2 . . 


57 


No. 3 . . 


57 


" imperial 


56 


" Queen Ann . . . 


58 


Sago, creamed 


95 


Salad, cabbage 


67 


" chicken 


93 


" fish 


93 


" lettuce and cucum 




ber 


93 


" onion 


67 


" potato 


. 68 


Salsify, to stew 


102 


Sauce, brown 


• IT 




' caramel .... 


64 




* celery 


78 




' drawn butter . . 


. 78 




* hollandaise . . 


66 


1 


liquid 


65 




* oyster 


78 




' parsley 


78 




* strawberry . . . 


. 107 




' vanilla 


. 107 




* white 41 


. 72 



134 



Index to Formulas. 



Soup, brown, No. i . . . 


. io6 


Tea, green, to make . . 


. 41 


No. 2. . . 


1 06 


" oolong, to make . 


. 41 


" cream of celery . 


80 


Toast 


. 31 


** cream of potato . 


79 


" creamed 


. 72 


" cream of tomato . 


80 


" dipped 


. 72 


" stock 


36 


" French 


. 116 


" vegetable 




64 


" tropical 


. 116 


Spinach, to boil 




107 


Tomatoes, baked . . . 


. 102 


Steak, Salisbury 




31 


" to prepare . 


• 99 


' * to broil a 




30 


Turnips, to boil .... 


. 37 


Stock, celery . 




78 






" mixed . 




106 


Veal chops, to saut6 . . 


. 43 


Stuffing for fish 




lOI 


" pot pie 


. 79 


* * for pork 


. . . 


75 


" to stew 


. 38 


" for poultry . . . 


74 


Wafers, ginger 


• 91 


Tapioca, creamed . . . 


95 


Yeast, compressed . . . 


• 49 


Tea, beef . . . 


. . . 


39 


" liquid 


. 55 



