rt 



cNoZ^4^J^/ 



^ 




t 



3- 



Boston Public Library 

Do not write m this book or mark it with pen or 
pencil. Penalties for so doing arc imposed by the 
Revised Laws of the ComrnonweaUh of Masaachusett*. 


Thii took tm 

last stamped bel 


r issued to the Borro'joer an the dati 














m iA 




^ 




'M 




naR -1 i9h 


u 













































































FORM NO. 609: >.4.}6i 2S04t. 



w 



{pocumtuc jpousemfe 

A Guide to Domestic Cookery 

V 

/f Choice Conserve v r; 




r* /* ^ , 

HE Fruit of Experience fresh-, 
ly gathered from Elderly 
Lips, now preserved in print 



THE 
POCUMTUC HOUSEWIFE; 

A GUIDE TO 

DOMESTIC COOKERY, 

AS IT IS PRACTICED IN THE CONNECTICUT VALLEY. 



To which are added plain directions for soap-making, 
brewing, candle dippings clezr starching, caring for the sick 
and all duties of a careful housewife. 

Especially adapted to the use of young wives zvho come 
from outside places and are not conversant with the ways of 
the Valley, and of female orphans who have not had a 
mother's training. 



B\^ SEVER-\L LADIF.S.. 



DE'Ek'PmLi) 

First Edition iSo^, 

Reprint with additions iSg^. 






PUBLISHED BY 

WILLARD LEND A HAND SOCIETY, 

DEERFIELD, MASS. 



\ 



i • ••• ,• 
• • • • •. 



•. -•- ••' 



• • • • 



dontents. 

Note to Edition of 1897 4 

Advertisement to first edition 5 

What to Eat 6 

Baking Day 8 

Bread 10 

Boiled Dinner 14 

Roasts 18 

Pickling Meats 21 

Pies 22 

Puddings 26 

Cake 29 

Custards and Syllabubs 34 

Pickles and Preserves 37 

The Physical Director 40 

Miscellany 45 



mote to tbe lEMtion of 1897* 

TO THE READER. 

IN the universal hunt for things ancestral, one essential part 
of the old life has been neglected. Why should empty 
platters and plates be cherished as something sacred, and the 
contents for which alone they existed be forgotten? Surely, a 
dish of pudding had a closer connection with a grandfather, 
than a dish of Canton china. In a sense the pudding was itself 
an ancestor. The blood it fed still flows in living veins. Then 
let it be honored and its history told ! 

Does anyone doubt the comparative merit of willow ware 
cookery and that of the present day? Ask any man or woman 
of years sufficient to remember the brick oven and the roasting 
spit, and doubt no longer. Stove cooked food merely sustains 
life. Some housewives are unfortunately placed in ready made 
houses without ovens or wide fireplaces. These cannot hope 
to excel. By carefully following as far as may be the rules 
found in this little book, they may gain some faint idea of the 
homemade ambrosia on which the men of old were fed. 



Hbvertieement to ifir^t lEMtion, 

J' 

As the directions which follow, were intended for the con- 
duct of the families of the authoress's own Daughters, 
and for the arrangement of their Table, so as to unite a good 
Figure with proper Economy, she has avoided all excessive 
luxury, such as essence of Ham, and that wasteful expenditure 
of large quantities of meat for Gravy, which so greatly contri- 
butes to keep up the price, and is no less injurious to those who 
eat, than to those whose penury bids them abstain. Many 
receipts are given for things which, being in daily Use, the 
mode of preparing them may be supposed too well known to 
require a place in a cookery book; yet how rarely do we meet 
with fine melted butter, good Toast and water, or well made 
Coffee ! She makes no apology for minuteness in some articles 
or for leaving others unnamed, because she writes not for pro- 
fessed Cooks. This little work would have been a treasure to 
herself, when she first set out in life, and she therefore hopes 
it may be useful to others. In that idea it is given to the public, 
and as she will receive from it no Emolument, so she trusts 
it will escape without Censure. 




iXlbat to Eat 



It will not be out of place to suggest to a No\dce what will be 
expected in the way of Meals in a farmer's household with a 
good many hands to feed. 

For Breakfast. 

For Sunday morning in winter fry the hasty-pudding that 
was left over from Saturday night's supper. Eat it with West 
India molasses or Muscovado sugar. In summer fried pudding 
is too heating. Pancakes with Cider and Sugar are better. 
Flapjacks are good on holidays or when the men folks are not 
working hard. Week day mornings farmers want some meat 
that can be cooked quickly, so as to let them go to the meadows 
before the sun is up. Sausages, Ham, Souse, fried Pork and 
eggs, or pork and apple with a milk gravy, with Irish potatoes 
boiled, are always handy. Salt Mackerel and Shad freshened 
over night and boiled are good. When the Shad catch comes, 
buy a Barrel of them and salt them yourself. They are very 
6 



nice. Johnny cake or hoe cakes are a good change from Rye 
and Indian bread. It is always best to keep flour bread in the 
house, but with a large family of farm hands or apprentices it 
cannot be eaten commonly. Nut cakes are expected for break- 
fast and sometimes Pye. 

It is a good Rule for young children to eat a Bowl of bread 
and milk in the morning before coming to the table. 

For Dinner. 

Some families like to get up a great dinner on Sundays and 
have friends who drive to Meeting from a distance come in for 
the Nooning. There is no objection to this if everything is pre- 
pared the day before. The meat should be plain Roast so that 
it can be started and left. A young child can tend the Spit 
while the rest of the family is away. In winter the Pyes should 
be put on the hearth before meeting, also, so as to thaw grad- 
ually. If you wish to avoid the necessity of keeping anyone at 
home, get some rice Porridge or brewis and cold meat. This 
with Pye is enough for anyone on a leisure day. For a week 
day dinner boiled corned beef and pork with a pudding and 
seasonable vegetables is a standard dish, and always relished 
by working men. Lay in a good supply of Turnips and cab- 
bages. Pumpkins and squashes. Calf's head and pluck makes a 
filling meal. You can have fresh meat frequently, even in warm 
weather, if when you kill a sheep or calf you pass it around 
to the neighbors, and they return the Compliment when they 
kill. It is usually safer to wait for cool Weather before killing 
beef and pork. Fowls are always to be had. When the team 
goes to Boston in the winter with a load to sell, have it bring 
back a fifty pound fresh codfish, and a barrel of oysters along 
with the molasses and sugar supply. The fish will keep frozen 
for weeks. A piece can be sawed off and thawed when needed. 
It can be salted down, and is much better than store codfish. 



4®*Store Codfish is not bad eating if properly cooked, but both it and the 
people who eat it are held in disrepute. They used to say that the Wisdom 
men came to the store every Saturday night to get a Codfish for Sunday, 
until the loafers began losing: 

" Conway for beauty, Deerfield for pride. 
If it hadn't been for Codfish, Wisdom would have died." 
as soon as a Wisdomite appeared. 

For company and great occasions, of course roast pig and 
turkey and various delicacies will be cooked. These sugges- 
tions are for every day. 

Supper. 

Arrange the cold meat and vegetables left from dinner on a 
large platter for the men folks. Saturday night they will ex- 
pect hasty-pudding and milk, or Samp when corn is new. 
Brown bread and Milk with pumpkin stewed dry, or baked 
sweet Apples, or huckleberries, are liked on a hot summer 
afternoon, especially if the milk is hung down the well and 
cooled. Pie and gingerbread and custards are good enough 
for common use. Keep a loaf of Rich Cake on hand for unex- 
pected company. 



How to Heat the Oven. 

Mrs. L. M. Child says, '* Economical People will use fagots 

and brush to heat the Oven." Hard wood heats it quicker and 

hotter. Take four foot wood split fine and pile it criss-cross so 

as to nearly fill the Oven, and keep putting in. 

J8®°Some have thought it saved fuel to set fire to the house immediately 
around the oven. This is doubtful economy and the Oven is apt to be 
overheated. 



A roaring Fire for an Hour or more is usually enough. The 
Top and Sides will at first be covered with black soot. See 
that it is all burned off. Rake the Coals over the bottom and 
let them lie a minute. Then sweep it out clean. If you can 
hold your hand inside while you count Forty it is about right 
for flour bread; to count twenty is right for Rye and Indian. 

Bake the Brown bread first, then flour bread and Pies, then 
Cake or puddings, and last custards. After everything else is 
out put in a pan of apples. Next morning they will be deli- 
ciously baked. A pot of Beans can be baking back side, out 
of the way, with the Rest. 







Emptins. Nothing raises bread so well as good lively beer 
Emptins. If it is saved every time the beer keg is emptied you 
will always have a fresh Supply. Some small families do not 
brew every week. In that case make a flour thickening, pour 
on scalding water to make a Batter. Put in a cup of emptins. 
When it is risen bottle and cork well. This will keep ten days 
or more. If it spoils borrow some of a neighbor who has fresh. 

^^Fieischman, the brewer, makes quite a business of saving 
his beer emptins, thickening it so as to make it into cakes, and 
selling these around to people who are not provident enough to 
supply themselves. It is said to be very good. 

Rye and Indian, Miss Louisa Stebbins. 

Put six or eight quarts each of Rye meal and Indian meal, 

and a little salt into the bread trough and stir them together. 

Wet with milk and a pint of emptins, making it very stiff. Let 

it rise over night, mould it into loaves in the morning, and 

lo 



bake on the bottom of the oven. Put it way back with the 
bread slice so as to be out of the way. The longer it bakes 
the sweeter it tastes. Stewed Pumpkin stirred in with the 
milk is good. 

Rye Bread is made the same way. 

Flour Bread is not made quite so stiff and is baked in pans. 
If bread runs short before baking day comes, light cakes can 
be baked in the bake kettle or the tin baker. Draw out a solid 
mass of Coals, set the bake kettle over it, put in your biscuit, 
put on the lid, and cover it with a thick layer of coals. 

Ivaised Biscuit are made much like bread except that a 
little shortening is used and they are allowed to get lighter. 
In winter, biscuit dough can be kept on hand a long time. 
When company comes, cut off a piece, mold it up and bake it. 

Rolls (like Sally Lumm's). By a Lady, Phil. 1808. 

Warm one ounce of butter in half a pint of milk. Put to it 
a spoonful and a half of yeast oi small beer, and a little salt. 
Put two pounds of flour into a pan and mix in the above. Let 
it rise an hour. Knead it well. Make into seven rolls and 
bake in a quick oven. If made in cakes three inches thick, 
sliced and buttered, they resenble Sally Lumm's as made at 
Bath. 

Muffins* Mrs. M. S. Allen. 

One quart of milk, one-half cup yeast, two eggs, tablespoon 
butter, little salt. Flour to mix very thick. Let it rise over 
night. In the morning stir in a Itttle soda and bake half an 
hour.^ 

Rusk. 

Make a batter of one pint warm milk, one-half cup yeast and 
flour, one teaspoon salt and let it rise over night. In the morn- 
II 



ing add one-half teacup butter, two well beaten eggs and flour 
enough to roll. Cut into round cakes. Put one on another to 
bake, let them stand half an hour, then bake. When done 
split open, pile lightly in a pan and dry in a slow oven till crisp. 

Sally Luno. Mrs. Laura Wells 

One quart flour, butter size of an egg, three tablespoons 
sugar, two eggs, two teacups milk, two teaspoons cream tartar, 
one teaspoon soda, salt. Bake in a large pan and break up. 

Brown Bread, (Sweetened) Mrs. F. Stebbins 

Two cups Indian meal, four cups rye meal, one cup molasses, 
salt, one cup raisins, one teaspoon soda. Mix with buttermilk 
or sour milk, soft. 

Brown Bread. 

Two cups Indian meal, two cups rye, one cup flour, one and 
one-half pints sweet milk, one teaspoon soda, one tablespoon 
vinegar added last. Steam three hours, or boil. Remove lid 
and brown in oven ten minutes. 

Johnny Cake. 

One pint buttermilk, one pint meal, one pint flour, one egg, 
one heaping teaspoon soda, one tablespoon sugar, salt. 

A rice Cake is made of Indian meal and water and a 
little salt, mixed very stiff and baked on a plate or a clean 
board before a very hot fire. 

Fire Cakes. Miss Louisa Stebbins. 

Make a dough like pie crust of flour, lard, salt, and water, 
only use less lard. Roll out thin and cover plates with it, 
pinching the edges to make it stick. Put a row of flat irons 
around a brisk fire and set the plates against them. — When 
they are brown one side, slip and turn them and brown the 
other. 



Aunt Mary's Pancakes. Mrs. C. H. Ashley. 

One quart buttermilk, one teaspoon soda, one egg, salt. 
Mix rather stiff. Drop from a spoon into hot fat and fry brown. 
To be eaten with sugar and cider. 

Indian Flapjacks* 

Scald a quart of Indian meal. When lukewarm stir in half 
a pint of flour, half a teacup of yeast, salt. When Hght fry. 

Flour Flapjacks. 

Make a batter of buttermilk, flour, pearlash and salt, just 
thick enough to spread easily. Put enough in a long handled 
frying pan to cover the bottom. When one side is done just 
right, give the pan a little jerk to loosen the cake, then toss it 
up with bit of a twist, and catch it fairly when it comes down 
the other side up. Pile the cakes on a platter as fast as they 
cook, spreading each with butter and sugar, and, on extra occa- 
sions, a little nutmeg grated over. Cut the pile down through 
in sections like a pie, in serving. 

jg^Every family has a legend of an inexpert but muscular fryer of flap- 
jacks, who tossed so high, the cakes flapped up through the wide kitchen 
chimney and came down outside. This should be avoided. 

RHODE ISLAND CAKES. Mrs. Yale. 

Stir together meal, salt and a little butter. Pour on boiling 
water to make a thick batter. Drop into a hot spider in which 
salt pork has just been fried Set it back where it will brown 
crisply without burning. Fry about an hour for both sides. The 
cakes should be an inch thick, light and tender. 



13 




nDeat0. 



Grandmother Arms' Boiled Dinner* 

If it was to be a boiled dinner grandmother and one of the 
girls would set about it as soon as breakfast was well out of the 
way. First they made sure the fire was good and steady, such 
a one as would last till dinner was served. Then the great din- 
ner pot was hung on the crane and filUed half full of cold water. 
Into this was plumped a big piece of corned beef and another 
of fat pork. 

At nine o'clock grandmother would lift the cover and if the 
kettle was boiling would place the pudding pot beside the beef 
and pork. At the same time Polly would bring the beets and 
go back to the work of scraping, peeling and washing the other 
vegetables. 

At half past ten the cabbage went in, at eleven the carrots 
and turnips, at half past eleven parsnips and potatoes. Then 

14 



quarters of squash were laid on the top and the dinner was un- 
der way. 

The great square table was next pulled out, covered with a 
plain home-spun cloth and the pewter plates and mugs, the 
steel knives and two-tined forks laid for ten people. At the 
corners were placed huge plates of "rye and injun " bread, 
pats of butter, also pickled cucumbers, cabbage or mangoes and 
pitchers filled with cider and beer. 

In Deerfield the conch shell and the dinner horn were un- 
necessary for as the sun reached high noon the old sexton rang 
a general invitation to stop work and go home to dinner from 
the belfry of the old church. At this signal the great pewter 
platter would be placed in the center of the table. The beef 
and pork half hidden in the substantial garnish of crimson beets, 
white potatoes, thick moist slices of pinkish turnip, golden 
carrots and yellow parsnips, with here and there squash and 
cabbage. The last thing on the table was the huge, smoking, 
red-brown Indian Pudding and when the clattering of chairs 
had subsided and the board was surrounded by hungry men 
fresh from the beautifying influence of bar soap and rough crash, 
hungry children fresh from intellectual inspiration of birch and 
book, hungry cooks and helpers, it was to the pudding they 
were first served, each receiving a generous slice to be eaten 
with butter and '*We?t Injer " molasses. Then grandfather 
carved the meat and everybody helped himself, pouring on plenty 
of cider vinegar and home-made mustard to stimulate digestion. 
One might suppose the following day would be an easy one for 
these busy women, and a vision of a cold dinner in a cool 
kitchen begin to rise. Let us not deceive ourselves, that dinner 
was for that day and if by reason of quantity some yet remained 
after the meal was ended, it was put on cold for suppper with 
the pie and doughnuts and custards. The next day dinner began 
anew. 

15 



Roasts of beef, mutton, lamb and veal were not so uncommon 
as many would have ua believe, while many chickens and 
turkeys failed to grace the Thanksgiving board from having 
been cut off at a tender age to assist at some family jollification . 

Fricasseed Chicken. Miss. Eliza Williams. 

Joint the chicken and boil gently till tender. When done fry 
slices of salt pork to a deUcate brown, take from the fry-pan 
and arrange on platter. Put the chicken, which has meantime 
been draining, into the pan and brown in the pork fat. 

Thicken the chicken broth with flour mixed smooth with 
water, add some butter the last thing, pour part of this gravy 
over the chicken which has been placed on the platter with the 
pork around it. The rest of the gravy should be poured over 
toast in another dish. 

Fried Cod Fish. 

Soak cod fish over night in cold water. Cut in pieces about 
two inches square, roll in Indian meal and fry with salt pork. 

Pork and Apple. 

Fry slices of pork until crisp and dry, take out of the frying 
pan and pour off a part of the fat. Take some large fair apples 
cut in round slices leaving the skin on; place these in the re- 
mainder of the fat and salt and when done serve like fritters. 
Apple is also good fried with sausage. 

Pork and Cream. Mrs. Yale. 

Fry slices of salt pork to a delicate brown. Take out into a 
deep dish. Turn part of the fat out of the frying pan and pour 
in thick cream, as soon as it is hot pour it over the pork. 

Pork Fried in Batter. 

Dip slices of freshly fried pork into a plain b*tter and fry 
like griddle cakes. 

I6 



Cracker Hash. Mrs. Jenks. 

Chop cold roast meat fine. Add gravy and water to make 
very moist, butter size of an egg, salt, pepper and sage; heat 
through and cover with a thick layer of cracker crumbs. Bake 
one hour. 

Vegetable Hash. Mrs. Apollos Root. 

Take whatever remains of the meat, beets, carrots, turnips, 
and potatoes, after a boiled dinner, chop fine, pour into a pan 
in which a bit of pork has been fried, cover and brown. 

Calf's Head and Pluck. Miss L. Stebbins. 

Soak the head in ashes and water, scald and scrape. It must 
be cleaned with great care. The head, heart and lights should 
be boiled full two hours. One hour is enough for the pluck. 
The brains should be thoroughly washed and put in a bag with 
a pounded cracker and a litttle sifted sage and boiled one hour 
then broken up with a knife, peppered, salted and buttered, 
and put in a bowl by themselves. Make a sauce of butter and 
flour and boiling water and serve with the head. 

Sea Pie. 

This pie is so called because it was brought to Western New 
England long ago by a sea captain. In order to make it you 
first take a piece of pork or veal, or anything you happen to 
have. Put it " a bilin " in the great iron pot over the fire, add 
a quart of sweet dried apples, some salt if necessary and " bile " 
till the meat is nearly done. Then add a cup of molasses and 
dumplings of the ordinary pot pie description. 

ig^Strange as it may seem to modern taste this compound of dissimilar 
materials was much prized. It was the favorite dish of "Uncle Oliver" 
Smith. 

During the last year of Uncle Oliver's life he was in miserable health. 
It became necessary for him to make a trip to Boston on businesss (a 
serious undertaking in those days) . He said that he felt too weak to go 
but a sea-pie, he thought, might set him up and enable him to accomplish 
his mission. So "Aunt Lois "who "looked after him " bestirred herself 
and succeeded in finding some dried sweet apples, (sea pies were then 
going out of fashion) made a pie and set it before him. Having partaken 
of which he was so strengthened that he made the journey and settled his 
business. 

17 




2)irection0 for TRoasttng. 



If the thing to be roasted be thin and tender the fire should 
be little and brisk. When you have a large joint to roast make 
up a sound strong fire, equally good in every part. Let it be 
proportioned to the dinner to be dressed and about three or 
four inches longer at each end than the thing to be roasted. 

Pins and skewers can by no means be allowed they are so 
many taps to let out the gravy. 

The first preparation for roasting is to take care that the spit 
be properly cleaned with sand and water, nothing else. 

Never salt your roast meat before you lay it down to the fire, 
(except ribs) for that will draw out the gravy. 

To Roast Beef. 

Wash it, spit it and lay it before the fire from one and a half 
to two hours according to the size of the roast. 

To Roast a Pig. "Economical Housekeeper." 

Prepare some stuffing as for a turkey, fill it full and sew it up 
with a coarse thread; flour it well over and keep flouring till 
the eyes drop out, or you find the crackling hard. Be sure to 
save all the gravy that comes out of it by setting basins or pans 
under the pig in the dripping-pan, as soon as the gravy begins 
i8 



to run. When the pig is done enough stir the fire up; take a 
coarse doth with a piece of butter in it, and rub the pig over 
till the crackling is crisp; then take it up. Lay it in a dish, and 
with a sharp knife cut off the head, then cut the pig in two be. 
fore you draw out the spit. Cut the ears off the head, and lay 
them at each end; cut the under jaw in two and lay the parts 
at each side; melt some good butter, take the gravy you saved 
and put in it, boil it, pour it in the dish with the brains bruised 
fine and some sage mixed together, and then send it to the table. 
If just killed, a pig will require an hour to roast; if killed the 
day before, an hour and a quarter, if a very large one, an hour 
and a half. 

Roast Turkey. 

Wash the turkey carefully inside and out, fill the crop and 
then the body with your stuffing, sew it up, hang by a stout cord 
from the hook in the ceiling before a steady fire. Keep it turn- 
ing till done. Serve with cranberry or turnip sauce. 

To Broil Shad, Mackerel or Salmon. 

Have the bars of the gridiron well greased with lard lay your 
fish on, flesh side down; when half done turn it and finish. 
When done pour over sweet cream if you have it, or spread 
over a little butter. 

Chicken Pie. Mrs. Frank Nims. 

Boil the chickens. Take out all the bones except the drum- 
sticks, second joints and wings. 

Line a milk pan with paste, put in the meat, sweeten and 
season to taste. Cut a large hole in the top crust before cover- 
ing the pie. 

Two quarts of flour are sufficient for the paste, stir with it 
six teaspoons of baking powder, and add three cups of shorten- 
ing. Mix as for pie crust, and wet with milk to make a 
soft dough. 

19 



Baked Beans. 

For an ordinary sized family put a quart of beans to soak at 
night. In the morning set them on the stove till they come to 
a boil then pour off the water. Add more cold water and half 
a pound of salt pork with the rind scored, let it come to a boil, 
season with a tablespoon of molasses and one of sugar, as much 
salt as necessary (the pork will not salt it quite enough) put it 
into pan or crock and bake all day in a slow oven. If the water 
dries out before the beans are done add more. If the oven is 
hotter than need be the dish should be covered at first. The 
cranberry bean is more desirable than any other kind for this 
purpose. 



Dircctione for picftUng an^ pre* 
serving flDeats. 



Corned Beef. 

For a hundred pounds of beef take seven pounds of salt, 
four pounds of brown sugar and four ounces of salt petre; mix 
together. Place a layer of the mixture at the bottom of the 
barrel, then a layer of beef and so on. A heavy weight should 
be placed on top. 

Pickled Pig's Feet. 

Scrape and wash the pig's feet, cover with salt and water; 
let stand two days then put in more salt and let stand two days 
more; boil about two hours, slip out the bones and pour vinegar 
over them, with a few cloves and a stick of cinnamon. 

Sausage. Mrs. Chas. Jones, Little Mary Hawks. 

Chop fresh pork fine. For twenty pounds of meat use seven 
ounces of salt, three ounces of sage, one and a half ounces of 
pepper. Put in bags or skins. Fry or bake. 

To Pickle Ham. 

To a hundred weight put eight pounds salt, six pounds sugar, 
four ounces salt petre, two ounces of saleratus and water enough 
to cover. 

Souse. Mrs. M. S. Stebbins. 

Pigs feet, ears, skins, etc., should be scalded and cleaned. 
Boil four or five hours, until very soft, Skim out and pack in a 
jar, throwing in cloves, salt, pepper, as it is put in. Put a plate 
and a weight on top. Pour over hot vinegar. Cut in slices, dip 
in flour, and fry brown. 

21 



Head Cheese^ 

Boil head and cheeks until the meat drops from the bones. 
Chop fine, season high with salt, pepper, sage, (summer savory 
if you like). Put in a colander or cheese press, cover and put 
weights on top to drain it. When cold serve. 



lpiC6* 



J' 

At some seasons of the year, fresh pie timber runs short. 
Make a good deal of rich mince meat in the fall. With occa- 
sional scalding it may be kept nearly the year round. A bushel 
of dried apples helps fill the gap. Carrot, grated and cooked 
like squash, makes delicious pies. A pie of boiled raisins 
chopped, with a rolled cracker stirred in, require very little 
extra seasoning and is not expensive. If all things fail, pud- 
dings must be substituted, but they do not take the place. 

At Thanksgiving time, it saves labor to make seventy-five or 
a hundred pies, and keep them on hand. Freeze them and slip 
the covered ones from the plates. Pack them in an earthen 
crock, or a large chest, one upon another. 

Pie Crust. 

One quart of pastry flour, one cup of lard, salt. Mix with a 
knife and wet with cold water until you can roll it. Fold over 
and roll again into shape. 

Cranberry Pie. 

Fill a covered plate with uncooked cranberries, add half a 
cup of molasses and four tablespoons of sugar. Cover with an 
upper crust, and bake half an hour in a quick oven. 



Marborough Pic* 

Steam until tender six large tart apples, and strain. Stir in 
one spoonful butter; when cool, add two eggs, the rind and 
juice of a lemon, and one cup of sugar beaten together. Bake 
with one crust. 

Pumpkin Pic* 

One quart sifted pumpkin, one pint milk, two eggs, one cup 
sugar, salt, nutmeg, and a little ginger. Bake with one crust. 

Pumpkin Pic Without E§:§:s. 

One quart pumpkin, five tablespoons fiour, two quarts milk. 
Sweeten to taste with molasses and sugar; season with ginger, 
allspice, cinnamon, and a pinch of cloves. Place over boiling 
water, and stir until it thickens. Bake with one crust. 

Raisin Pie« 

One cup seeded raisins, one half cup sugar, one tablespoon 
ginger, salt and spice. Boil the raisins in a cup of water; add a 
spoonful of flour and one egg. Bake in two crusts. 

Mince Pie* ^^iss Avis Ailms. 

One third each of meat, suet and apple chopped fine, also 
citron and raisins. Moisten with molasses and cider, or sweet 
pickle vinegar; add one cup sugar, salt, nutmeg, clore and 
cinnamon, lemon rind, if liked. 

Rhubarb or Persian Apple* Mrs. Luke Wright. 
One cup chopped rhubarb, one cup sugar, one egg, one table- 
spoon fiour, one-third rind of lemon grated. 

Cream Pie. Mrs. J. Stebbins. 

One cup cream, one egg, op^ cup maple sugar, one table- 
spoon flour, small piece of butter. 

23 



Squash Pic. Mrs. F. Stebbins. 

One cup sifted squash, one egg, one half cup sugar, one table- 
spoon flour, one pint milk, one half cup raisins seeded and 
spread on the pastry, salt and cinnamon. 

Lemon Pic» 

Juice and grated rind of one lemon, one cup of sugar, one 
cup water, two tablespoons flour, salt. Flour and water boiled 
together; white of egg partly reserved for frosting with a spoon- 
ful of sugar. 

Sweet Potato Pic. 

Slice boiled potatoes into a covered plate; add sugar, a 
sprinkle of flour, salt; then another layer of potatoes, more 
sugar, a bit of butter, nutmeg. Pour in milk and bake slowly. 

Cheese Cakes. Mrs. Jenks. 

Two cups soft cottage cheese, two eggs beaten light, one 
cup sugar, butter size of a walnut, nutmeg and cinnamon. Pour 
in a crust and bake a rich brown. 

Marborough Puddingfs. Mrs. Baker. 

One pint strained stewed apple, three-fourths pound butter, 
one pound sugar. Mix while warm; when cool, add five eggs 
well beaten, nutmeg and cinnamon, one half cup cream. Bake 
with one crust; makes four pies. 

Apple "Pudding Pic* 

Five cups strained stewed apple; add while hot a small cup 
■ of butter, two cups of sugar, and beat thoroughly. Then add 
five eggs beaten light, two and a half cups of rich milk, spice to 
taste. 

24 



Fried Pics. 

One cup buttermilk, one egg, salt, half teaspoon soda, flour 
to roll; divide in four parts. Roll in a thin sheet as large as 
can be fried in the kettle, turn, and when done, spread with hot 
apple sweetened, and a dust of cinnamon; or roll doughnut 
dough thin, cut in pieces, lay on a spoonful of apple sauce, wet 
and pinch together the edges like a turnover and fry in boiling 
lard. 

Pan Pics* Mrs. Ingersoll. 

Pare, core and quarter half a peck of apples and fill a very 
deep earthen pan. Add one cup of water and one cup of brown 
sugar. Cover with a thick crust of risen bread dough into 
which you have worked a large tablespoonful of butter. Let 
rise a short time. Bake in a brick oven, after the first heat is 
gone, all night. In the morning, while the pie is still warm^ 
take oS the crust, cut in slices nnd put in the bottom of two 
large pudding dishes. Season the apple to taste with molasses, 
allspice and cinnamon, a teaspoonful of each spice, pour over 
the crust, cover with a plate and return to the oven for half an 
hour to become thoroughly softened. This served for breakfast 
or lunch was considered most delectable by the children of by- 
gone days. 

Pan Dowdy. Miss Judith Allen. 

Cover a deep pie plate with crust. Put in a layer of sliced 
apple, then thin shavings of salt pork, then more apple and 
more pork. Bake with an upper crust. When done eake off 
the crust, season the apple with sugar, molasses, allspice or 
what you choose. Put half the apple in upper crust turned over 
like a plate, lay on the rest of the apple and serve hot. 

25 



Stcbbins Padding. 

One pound bread, one quart milk; soak over night. In the 
morning sift through a colander, add seven eggs, three-fourths 
pound of butter, nutmeg and raisins, aud another half pint of 
milk. 

Apple Dumplings. 

Make a good biscuit crust; peel and core tart apples; fill 
with sugar; wrap each in a piece of dough. 
Steam or bake one hour. 
Serve with butter and sugar sauce. 



Iput)&ing0, 



Boiled Indian Pudding. 

Sifted Indian meal and warm milk (not scalding or pudding 
will break to pieces) should be stirred together stiff. A little 
salt, and two or three great spoonfuls of molasses; a spoonful of 
ginger. Boil it in a tight covered pan, or a very thick cloth. 
Leave plenty of room for Indian iwells very much. Some peo- 
ple chop sweet suet fine and warm in the milk; others warm 
thin sUces of sweet apple to be stirred into the pudding. Water 
will answer instead of milk. Boil four or five hours. 

A Tasty Pudding. 

One quart milk, scald and stir in one cup meal, one cup mo- 
lasses, two large spoons cider molasses, a little salt, and butter, 
a little sour apple sliced thin. Bake slowly for three hours. 
26 



Baked Indian Pudding. Miss Whiting. 

One quart milk, five table spoons of meal, three fourths cup 
of molasses, salt, cinnamon. Scald a pint of milk, stir in the 
meal. When cool, add the egg. Bake slowly for two hours, 
adding the rest of the milk while baking. 

Apple Slump. Mrs. E. Co\\xes. 

Fill small stew pan one-third full of quartered apple; add one 
cup sugar, two thirds cup molasses, nutmeg, cloves and cinna- 
mon; cover and cook a very little. Make a biscuit dough with- 
out shortening, roll one inch thick and cover the apple. Cook 
slowly for an hour, covered; then let it brown. Lift the crust, 
break in pieces and pour apple over. The quarters should be 
whole and clear. 

Baked Rice Pudding. Miss E. Williams. 

One teacup rice, two and a half quarts of milk, one half tea- 
spoon salt, a small cup of sugar, half a cup of raisins, cinnamon 
and nutmeg. Put part of the milk to the rice and set on the 
stove to cook, adding the rest of the milk, hot as it is needed. 
Cook slowly, stirring often for about two hours. Then bake in 
a moderate oven one hour. 

Rice Pudding with Eggs. 

Two cups boiled rice, one quart of milk, three eggs, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, small piece of butter, nutmeg or lemon to taste. 
Bake thirty-five minutes. 

Sweet Corn Pudding. Miss E. Williams. 

Take twelve ears of corn, cut the rows through the center and 
scrape out the pulp with a knife. Add three eggs, a pint of 
milk, and a spoonful of butter. Sweeten and flavor to taste. 
Bake one half hour. 



Plum Puddingf. Mrs. Jenks. 

Half a loaf of bread in crumbs, pour over a quart of cold milk. 
Let stand several hours, then mash fine. Add seven eggs, a 
cup of sugar, one fourth cup of butter, spice and a pint of rais- 
ins. Bake three or four hours. 

Fudding Sauce. 

One cup sugar, two tablespoons butter, one large tablespoon- 
ful of flour, stirred together. Add one beaten egg, salt, a gill of 
boiling water, tablespoonful of vinegar and teaspoon of vanilla, 
or wine if preferred. 

Engflish Plum Puddingf. 

A stale loaf of baker's bread grated, ten eggs, half a pound 
of sugar, one pound suet, one cup molasses, one and one half 
pounds stoned raisins, one pound currants, two ounces citron, 
one teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg, one glass 
of brandy and one of wine. Boil in a cloth six hours or steam 
in a mould. Serve with sweet sauce. 



28 




The production of good cake requires particular care and 
every careful housewife will take pains to perfect herself in this 
necessary art. Every well-regulated family will keep a sufficient 
quantity of rich fruit cake on hand for chance visitors or other 
occasions. This can be made before Thanksgiving, of a rich- 
ness to ensure its keeping six or even twelve months. Should 
it become mouldy on the outside the mould can be removed 
with a damp cloth and the cake set into a hot oven for a few 
moments when it will become as good as new. 

Gingerbread, seedcakes and doughnuts will suffice for daily 
needs. In all cases where spices are named it is supposed they 
be pounded fine and sifted, sugar must be dried and rolled fine, 
flour dried in an oven, eggs well beat or whipped to a raging 
foam. Pearlash is a necessary ingredient in all cakes made 
with sour or butter-milk. Thrifty housekeepers are wont to 
gather the whitest and lightest of applewood ashes as they fall 
in the fireplace. These should be leached with water and put 
into bottles. 

29 



A manufactured article called soda is used in conjunction with 
cream tartar and sweet milk to make light delicious cakes. 

Wedding Cake. Mrs. Catharine Hoyt. 

Three pounds of raisins, two pounds of currants, one half 
pound citron, a pound of flour, same of butter and sugar; one 
tablespoon mace or nutmeg, one ounce of cinnamon and one of 
cloves, a little molasses, a wine glass of wine, eleven eggs, 
Stir sugar and butter to a cream then add eggs beaten separ- 
ately, next flour then the other things. 

Honeymoon Cake* 

Three fourths of a cup of butter, one and a fourth cups sugar, 
one-half cup of milk, two eggs, spice, one teaspoon cream tartar, 
one half teaspoon soda, two and a half cups flour. 

Six Months Cake. Mrs. Frank Steebins. 

Two cups sugar, one and a half cups butter, four eggs, one 
cup molasses, one cup sweet milk, spices to taste, two cups 
raisins, one cup citron, one cup currants, one teaspoon saleratus, 
four and a half cups flour. 

Election Cake. 

Four pounds flour, two and a half pounds sugar, two pounds 
butter, one scant quart of milk, eight eggs, one half pint wine 
two nutmegs, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, one teaspoon of 
cloves, two gills yeast. Make up flour, yeast and milk exactly 
like bread; when light add other ingredients. When again light 
add one pound of currants, two pounds of raisins. Bake two 
hours. 

Raised Cake. Mrs. Samuel Wells. 

One and a half cups of bread dough, one cup of sugar, one 
half cup of butter, one egg, a little soda, nutmeg and cinnamon 
to taste, a cup full of chopped raisins. 

Bake as soon as made. 

30 



Pound Cake. 

A pound of butter and the same of sugar and f^our, ten eggs, 
two pounds raisins, one pound currants, half a pound of citron 
one teaspoon soda, spices if one likes. 

One Two Three Four Cake. 

A cup of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, four eggs. Beat 
well together and bake in cups or pans for twenty minutes. 

Hoosac Loaf Cake. 

One and three fourths pounds of flour and the same of sugar, 
three fourths of a pound of butter, three fourths of a pound of 
raisins, a pint of milk, four eggs, a glass of wine, one nutmeg, 
a teaspoon of soda. 

Aunt Emily's Cake. 

A cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, four 
cups of flour, three eggs, a teaspoon of soda, two teaspoons 
cream tarter, extract lemon, a httle nutmeg, a dash of brandy, 
one cup of raisins and a cup of citron sliced fine. Bake fifty- 
five minutes. 

Little Plum Cakes to Keep Long. 1805. 

A coffee cup of sugar, a cup of butter, a little less than a 
quart of flour. Beat the butter to a cream, add three eggs well 
beaten, a quarter of a pound of currants, the same of citron, 
the sugar and flour, and a little brandy. Beat all for some time 
then dredge flour on tin plates and drop the batter on them the 
size of a walnut. Bake in a brisk oven. 

Spong;e Cake. 

Ten eggs, the weight of the eggs in sugar, the weight of five 
eggs in flour, grated peel and juice of a lemon. Beat the yolks 
and sugar together till white and creamy, whip the whites to a 

31 



stiff froth, put together and stir in flour lightly, adding lemon 
last. This receipt has been used for several generations in one 
family and is much prized. 

Shrewsbury Cakes. 

A pound of butter, three fourths pound of sugar, a little 
mace, four eggs. Mix and beat with your hand till very light. 
Put this composition to a pound of flour. Roll it into small 
cakes. Bake with a light oven. 

Blueberry Cake. 

A scant cup of sugar, an egg, a pinch of salt, a cup of milk, 
two teaspoons baking powder, one and a half cups of berries, 
flour to make a thick batter. Bake in cups or small tins. 

Mollic Saundcr's Upper Shelf Gingferbread. 

Three and a half pounds of flour, a pound of butter, a quart 
of Sugar-house molasses boiled with the butter, a tablespoon of 
soda dissolved in warm water, ginger to your taste. Roll it on 
flat tin sheets and print with corrugated squares made for the 
purpose. MoUie Saunder's Lower Shelf Gingerbread had no 
butter in it. These receipts were made by the woman who 
kept the best bakeshop in Salem about a hundred years ago. 

Sugfar Gingerbread. 

A cup of butter, three cups of sugar, two eggs, a half cup of 
buttermilk, half a cup of cream, a large teaspoon of soda, two 
tablespoons of ginger. Some salt and flour to mix very stiff. 
Roll thin, mark with creased roller and cut in squares. 

Great Grandmother's Gingerbread. 

Four pounds of flour, two pounds of sugar, a pound and a 
half of butter, a teaspoon of soda dissolved in tablespoonful 

32 



rose water or milk, eight eggs, a half teacup of ginger. Roll 
very thin on flat tin sheets. This is a very old recipe but still 
in use. 

Cream Gingerbread. 

One cup molasses, one egg, one half cup cream, one and a 
half cups of flour, a teaspoon of soda, ginger and salt to taste. 

Soft Gingferbread. 

One cup molasses, one heaping teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon 
full soda, a little salt, a heaping tablespoon butter, two thirds of 
a cup of boiling water, two cups of flour. 

Buttermilk Gingerbread. 

One and a half cups of molasses, one half a cup of sugar, a 
cup and a half of buttermilk, a third of a cup of shortening, a 
little salt, cinnamon and ginger to taste, a teaspoon of soda. 
Flour to make stiff. 

Ginger Snaps. 

Two cups of molasses, a cup of sugar, one of butter, three tea- 
spoons of ginger and two of soda. Roll very thin and bake in 
a quick oven. 

Cream Cookies. 

A cup of sugar, a cup of thick cream, a level teaspoon of salt, 
a rounding teaspooon of soda, two and three fourths cups of 
flour. 

Caraway Cookies. Mrs. Whiting. 

One and a half cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of 
milk, one egg, caraway seeds to taste and flour enough to 
work. Roll about a quarter of an inch thick. 

33 



Crullers, Matrimony or Love Knots. 

Three eggs, a cup of sugar, a tablespoon melted butter, one 
fourth teaspoon soda, nutmeg, flour to make very stiff. Roll 
thin, cut in strips and tie in knots, or braid three strips together. 
Fry dehcately and sprinkle sugar over while hot. 

Dougfhnuts. Mrs. Arms. 

Two eggs, a cup of sugar, a little nutmeg and salt, a table- 
spoon melted butter, three small teaspoons baking powder, cup 
and a half of milk, flour to roll. Let them stand before frying. 

Rye Dougfhnuts. Miss Judith Allen. 

Two quarts of rye flour, two thirds of a cup of lard, a pint of 
milk, a pinch of soda and a level tablespoonful of salt. Mix very 
hard. Roll one third inch thick in rounds as large as a saucer, 
cut in strips like a gridiron and twist each strip. Fry fast and 
crisp. 

Raised Dougfhnuts. 

One cupful of lard or butter, two cups of milk, one cup of 
yeast, three cups of sugar, four or five eggs, nutmeg and a pinch 
of salt. Warm together the milk and lard, then add the yeast; 
stir in flour enough to make a batter, and let it stand over night; 
then add the other ingredients. Knead soft and let rise again; 
then roll, cut out and let rise before frying. 



Cu0tar&9 anb S^jllabube* 

Custard. Mrs. Ball. 

One and one half pints milk, the same of cream, one cup 
sugar, seven eggs, a little salt, nutmeg on top. 

34 



Raspberry Cream. American Cookery, 1808. 

Take a quart of thick sweet cream and boil it two or three 
wallops. Then take it off the fire and strain the juices of rasp- 
berries into it to your taste. Stir it a good while before you put 
your juice in, that it may be almost cold, and afterwards stir it 
■one way for almost a quarter of an hour. Then sweeten it to 
your taste and when it is cold you can send it up. 

To make a fine Syllabub from the Cow. 

American Cookery, 1808. 

Sweeten a quart of cider with double refined sugar. Grate 
nutmeg into it. Then milk your cow into your liquor. When 
you have thus added what quantity of milk you think proper, 
pour half a pint or more of the sweetest cream you can get all 
over it. 

"Whipped Cream. "American Cookery." 1808. 

Take a quart of cream and whites of eight eggs beaten with 
half a pint of wine; mix them and sweeten to taste with double 
refined sugar; you may perfume it if you please, with musk or 
amber gum tied in a rag and steeped a little in the cream. 
Whip it up with a whisk, with a bit of lemon peel tied to the 
middle. Take off the froth with a spoon and put it into glasses. 

Calf's Foot Jelly. 

Scrape four feet clean. Boil in a gallon of water till it is re- 
duced to a quart. Strain and cool. Take off the fat. 

Boiled with an equal quantity of milk it makes a good blanc- 
mange. To make jelly add wine, sugar, juice of leirions, whites 
of several eggs. Boil and strain into glasses. 

35 



porribgee an& flDuebee* 

J9S^ Porridges are always good for children. They make an easy dinner 
for the women when the men folks take their dinners to the field; and a hot 
dish of hulled corn and milk or rice porridge is relished by the men on a 
cold night for supper. 

Rag Toast. 

Brown all the broken bits of bread in the oven and put them 
in the bottom of a large dish. Make an ordinary milk porridge 
and pour over it. 

Mulled Buttermilk. Mrs. Whiting. 

Put buttermilk fresh from the churn to heat with a little salt 
and sugar. Crumb in a few slices of bread. Let it boil up 
once and serve. 

Hulled Corn. Miss Lousia Stebbins. 

Put three or four quarts of old corn in a kettle of water. Tie 
a handful of ashes in a cloth and put in. Keep the pot warm, 
but not hot for two or three days. Then pour off the lye and 
wash the corn thoroughly in many waters, rubbing it together 
with the hands to loosen the hulls. Let it soak in clear water 
until you are sure the lye is out. Then boil it slowly for four or 
five hours, or until it is soft. 

Samp. 

As soon as the new corn is hard enough not to crush in 
the mill, have some cracked very coarse. Put as much as you 
wish for dinner in a pail and pour on cold water. The hulls 
will rise. Pour off the water carefully through a sieve into a 
pail, and throw away the chaff. Pour the water back on the 
corn and stir it up. More hulls will come to the top. Repeat 
the process until the samp is clean and free from chaff. Boil it 
like hasty pudding, but longer, using the water you have poured 
on it to boil it in. 

36 



preserver, Ci5er Hpple Sauce anb 



Mrs. Lydia Maria Child says: •' Economical people will sel- 
dom use preserves except for sickness. They are unhealthy, 
expensive and useless to those who are well." 

Barberries preserved in molasses are very good for common 
use. Boil the molasses, skim it, throw in the barberries, and sim- 
mer them until they are soft. 

A pound of sugar to a pound of fruit is the rule for all pre- 
serves. The sugar should be melted over a moderate fire, 
skimmed clean and the fruit dropped into simmer until it is soft. 
Put them in jars, lay a white paper thoroughly wet with brandy 
flat on the surface of the preserves, and cover tight from the air. 

Raspberry Jam. 

Six pounds of sugar to ten pounds of berries. Crush the 
berries and set them over the stove where they will heat slowly. 
Press through a strainer. Return the juice to the fire and boil 
briskly fifteen minutes; add the sugar and cook half an hour 
longer. Put in the fruit and simmer for ten minutes. 

Gtroa Melon Preserves^ 

Pare and cut the melon in small pieces. Boil gently until 
tender in just water enough to cover. Skim out and add as 
much sugar as there was melon. Boil an hour, add the melon 
and one .lemon sliced to each pound of melon. Simmer until 
clear, then take out the melon and lemon and boil the syrup half 
an hour longer. Pour hot over the melon. 

37 



Qntncc and Apple Preserve. Mrs. C. E.Williams. 

Five pounds quinces pared and quartered, five pounds sweet 
apples, five pounds sugar. Boil the quince parings and cores 
in sufficient water to cover. Strain, put in the quince and cook 
until tender. Take them out and add sugar to water. Let it 
boil up, then put in quince and apple in alternate layers and 
cook until apple is tender and red like the quince. Add more 
water if necessary. 

Oder Apple Sauce. 

A barrel of cider apple sauce and a half barrel of quince and 
apple will be needed in an ordinary family. Boil down a barrel 
of sweet cider as soon as it comes from the press, either in the 
set kettle or in brass kettles, to ten or twelve gallons. Take a 
rainy day when the boys are idle to pare the apples. Fill a 
brass kettle two thirds full with half sweet and half sour quar- 
tered apples. Put in two or three quarts of cider syrup and 
boil until apples are tender. Set the barrel of sauce where it 
will freeze and it will grow better until spring. It needs time to 
mature. Sweet apples alone put in a few at a time and skimmed 
out before they mush are very nice. 

The quinces must be sliced very thin and cooked a little be- 
fore the apple is mixed in. 

Save some of the syrup and in the spring make sauce with 
dried sweet apples first soaked in water. 

Syrup for all sorts of Sweet Pickles. 

To eight pounds fruit use one quart vinegar, four pounds sugar, 
one ounce cinnamon stick, one half ounce cloves. Boil together. 
Put in fruit and skim out when tender. Boil down syrup and 
pour over fruit. 

38 



Preserved Orange PecL 

Sprinkle the peel well with salt and cover with cold water for 
three or four days. Pour off the brine and put into fresh water 
to boil until soft; then put into a thick syrup of sugar and water 
and boil until it is clear. Put it away in jars with the syrup and 
use it in cakes and puddings as you would citron. 

Mangoes. 

Take green muskmelons, remove the seeds and put them in 
salt and water over night. Fill them with onions, horseradish 
chopped fine, mustard seed and cloves, sew them up and pour 
over hot vinegar. 

Pickled Cabbage* 

Pack red cabbages, the large heads cut in quarters, into a 
brass kettle. Pour weak vinegar and salt over them. Scald 
until the cabbage is tender. Drain and stick cloves into every 
piece so as to pin down the leaves. Pack the cabbages in a keg 
or jar and pour boiling strong vinegar over them. 

Tomato Soy. 

One peck green tomatoes, six peppers, four onions chopped; 
add one cup salt and let stand over night. Then drain off the 
liquid and add a large cup of sugar, a cup of grated horseradish, 
a tablespoonful each of allspice, cloves and cassia; cover with 
good vinegar and cook till soft, also add a little ground mustard. 

Ripe Tomato Pickle* 

Eight pounds of tomatoes four pounds of sugar a pint of vine- 
gar, a teaspoonful of mace and one of cinnamon, half a teaspoon 
of cloves; boil till thick. 

39 



^be lpb?6ical ©(rector. 

This department may with the greatest truth be affirmed to 
be worth double the Price of the Book, as the receipts are not 
only safe and cheap, but such as can be easily procured, and 
are what cannot possibly do the least harm to the constitution, 
if they should not have the desired effect, which I believe will 
very seldom or never happen. 

To Break Up a Fresh Cold. Nothing is better than a glass 
of hot flip on going to bed. Put the poker in the fire to heat. 
Mix some ginger and molasses in a beer mug. Pour on some 
sour cider. Plunge in the red hot poker and stir it up till it 
foams well. This is a very agreeable cure. Warm the bed 
hot with the warming pan and put in some hot bricks. A 
fine sweat will carry off the cold. 

A Quaker Stew is good for an inflamed throat and itching 
cough. Take a piece of butter the size of a shag bark, a pint of 
molasses, a little vinegar and a dash of red pepper. Boil until it 
strings. Take hot or cold in doses to suit. 

A Slice of salt pork spread with black pepper and bound on 
with a strip of red flannel will cure a sore throat. Take brandy 
made thick with sugar, and a drop of camphor. Let this dis- 
solve on the tongue. 

"For a sudden attack of quinsy or croup bathe the neck with 
bear's grease and pour it down the throat. Goose grease or any 
kind of oily grease is as good as bear's grease." — Mrs. Child. 

For a cold that is tight on the lungs, give hot ginger and sage 
tea to sweat. Onions stewed in molasses are loosening. Put 
draughts of wilted horseradish leaves on the feet. Put hen's 
oil or skunks oil over the chest and pack in hot flannels. A 

40 



drop or two of hen's oil on a lump of sugar will loosen up a cold. 
If there is a pain in the side, put on a mustard paste. 

For a Cough. Boil a teacup of flaxseed in a quart of water, 
to a pint. Add a gill of molasses or honey, simmer ten minutes 
and cool, add a few drops of lemon juice. 

For Humors in the Blood. Make a paste of sulphur, 
cream of tartar and molasses. Take a teaspoonful three morn- 
ings, skip three, take three. 

Syrup for the Spring of the Year. Boil together, dock 
root, thoroughwort, yarrow, mullein, sarsaparilla, coltsfoot, 
spearmint, May weed, dandelion root, and any other herbs you 
like. Boil down the water and add molasses to make a syrup. 
Put in brandy to keep. Make a good deal of this, and give all 
the family a tablespoonful before breakfast as a preventive of 
Spring fevers. 

"Elixir Pro, is a useful family medicine for digestive dis- 
orders. Pulverize one ounce of saffron, one ounce of myrrh, 
one ounce aloes. Steep the myrrh in a half pint of brandy or 
N. E. rum for four days. Add the saffron and aloes; let it stand 
in the sunshine or a warm place for a fortnight, shaking it twice 
a day. Then fill up the bottle with brandy or N. E. rum. 
The longer it stands the better." — Mrs. S. M. Child. 

"For an Ordinary Headache take a shovel full of clean 
wood ashes; put them into clear cold water. When it has set- 
tled drink the water. It may cause vomiting; if it does the 
headache will be relieved the sooner." — Mrs. E. A. Howland. 

"For Earache. Soak the feet in warm water; roast an 
onion and put the head of it into the ear as hot as can be borne; 
take the feet out of the water and bind roasted onions on them." 

— Mrs. Howland. 

"For Deafness. Take a strong glass bottle, nearly fill it 
with clarified honey. Insert the bottle into the center of an 

41 



unbaked loaf of bread and bake thoroughly. Pour a small 
quantity of the honey into your ears and protect them from the 
external air with cotton." — Mrs. Howland. 

"For Hydrophobia. Wash oyster shells, put them on a bed 
of live coals and burn them thoroughly. Reduce to powder 
and sift through a fine sieve. Take three tablespoons of this 
powder add a sufficiency of egg to make a soft dough, and fry in 
in a little butter or olive oil. Let the patient eat this cake it 
the morning, and abstain from food or drink for six hours. 
This dose repeated for three mornings, is in all cases sufficient." 

— Mrs. Howland. 

A Good quantity of old cheese is the best thing to eat when 
distressed by eating too much fruit or oppressed with any kind 
of food. 

An Ointment made of ground worms rubbed on with the 
hand is excellent when the sinews are drawn up. 

*' Elder Blow Tea is peculiarly efficacious for babes or for 
grown people when the digestive powers are out of order." 

Mrs. Child. 

•'Motherwort is very quieting to the nerves. Students and 
wakeful people find it useful. — Mrs. Child. 

Pennyroyal is good for the cholic. 

Camomile for Consumption. "The attention of a young 
lady, apparently in the last stage of consumption, was called to 
the virtue of camomile, by observing from her window early 
each morning, a dog with scarcely any flesh on his bones go 
and lick the dew off a camomile bed in the garden, in doing 
which the animal was noticed to alter his appearance, to recover 
his strength, and finally looked plump and well. The singularity 
of the circumstance induced the lady to follow the dog's example. 
She procured dew from the same bed of camomile, drank a 

42. 



small quantity each morning and experienced relief. Her appe- 
tite became regular, she found a return of spirits, and in the 
end was completely cured." — Mrs. Child. 

Other Cures for Consumption. Take no Food but new 
Buttermilk churned in a Bottle, and white Bread, I have known 
this successful. — Or, every Morning cut a little Turf of fresh 
Earth, and lying down breathe into the hole for a Quarter of an 
Hour. I have known a deep Consumption cured thus. 

The Jaundice. Take as much as will lie on a Shilling, of 
calcined Egg-Shell, three mornings fasting, and walk till you 
sweat. — Or half a Pint of Strong Decotion of Nettles. 

The King's Evil. Take as much cream of Tartar as will lie 
on a Sixpence, every Morning and Evening. 

For an Ague. Take a dram of Powder of Myrrh, mix it 
in a Spoonful of Sack, then take it and drink a glass of sack after 
it. Do this as near as possible, an hour before the fits come on. 

— Doctor Mead. 

A Cold in the Head. Pare very thin the yellow rhine of 
an orange; roll it up inside out and thrust a roll into each 
nostril. 

For a Bruise Apply a Plaister of chopped Parsley mixed 
with Butter. 

For Chin Cough OR Hooping Cough. Rub the back at 
lying down with old Rum. It seldom fails. — Or give a spoon- 
ful of Juice of Penny-royal mixed with brown Sugar-Candy, 
twice a Day. 



43 



IToob for tbe Slcft^ 

Wine Whey. One pint of cream sweetened to your taste, 
vrarmed hot. Siir in sweet wine until curdled, grate in cinna- 
mon and nutmeg. — '■'■Amer. Cook," i8oS. 

A Sick Bed Custard. Scald a quart of milk, sweeten and 
salt it a little, whip three eggs and stir in. Bake on coals in 
a pewter vessel. — Amer. Cook. 

Milk Porridge. Boil new milk. Stir flour thoroughly into 
cold milk in a bowl, and pour it into the boiling milk. Let it 
cook six or eight minutes. Season with salt and if the patient 
likes with sugar and nutmeg. 

Dr. Ratcliff's Restorative Pork Jelly. Take a leg of 
well fed pork, beat it and break the bone. Set it over a gentle 
fire with three gallons of water, half an ounce each of mace 
and nutmeg and simmer it down to one gallon. Strain, cool 
and take off the fat. Give a cupful the first and last thing and 
at noon, putting salt to taste. 

"Chicken Panada. Boil the chicken in a quart of water. 
Take off the skin. Put the white meat when cold into a mar- 
ble mortar. Pound it to a paste with a little of the broth. 
Season with salt, a grate of nutmeg, and the least bit of lemon 
peel. Boil gently a few minutes to the consistency you wish. 
It should be such as you can drink, though tolerably thick. 
This conveys great nourishment in small compass." 

— Lady from Phila. iSoS. 

Caudle. Make a fine smooth gruel of half grits. Strain and 
cool, stir at times. When to be used, add sugar, wine, lemon 
peel, and nutmeg. Some like a spoonful of brandy beside. 

"Caudle TO Give Away to Poor Families. Set three 
quarts of water on the fire. Mix smooth, enough oatmeal to 
thicken it with a pint of water. Pour this into the boiling water 
with twenty powdered Jamaica peppers. Boil to a good mid- 
dling thickness, then add sugar, half a pint of well fermented 
table beer and a glass of gin. Boil all." — A Lady, Phila. iSoS. 

44 




Soap Making. Save some weak lye when you make soao 
and put it in the soap-grease barrel down cellar. Drop into it 
all your bacon rinds, bits of fat meat, the top of the pot after 
boiling salt meat, your cake fat when it gets dark, and every- 
thing fat that comes along. It is amazing how much comes 
along in the courseof a year. The lye will work on it and keep it. 

In the spring when the ash hole is cleared have five or six 
bushels of ashes put in the ash leach. If you have one; if not a 
hogshead, with holes bored in the bottom, set up on sticks will 
do. Pour on enough water to wet the ashes thoroughly, but not 
to drip, and let them stand several days. Then pour on boiling 
water and let it drip into a tub. Continue putting on water until 
the lye grows weak. If it is strong enough to bear up an egg 
so that you can see a piece as big as a ninepence, it is about 
right. 

On soap day morning get breakfast out of the way early and 
plan an easy dinner. Swing the six pail kettle on the crane for 

45 



the soap, and a smaller one for the grease which should be put 
on to heat with some strong lye. As it dissolves dip it off into 
the big pot and add more lye and water. A little experience 
will teach how much of each. Too much lye will make it thin, 
and the soap will eat your clothes and your hands. Water will 
make it jell, but don't use too much or it will not keep. Boil 
until it becomes thick and ropy. 

If it does not " come," take out a little in a dish and try first 
water, then lye and then grease until it does thicken. Then 
add to the big pot whatever seems needed and boil again. 
When it comes, empty the kettle and start again. 

This is a good job done. — Compiled. 

Jg®=MakJng soap in the new of the moon may make no difference in its 
coming, but it certainly does no harm. 

" Of Clear Starching. Take your Muslin aprons. Hoods, 
Neckcloths, fold them four double, putting the two Selvages. 
together, then the ends together and wash it the way the Sel- 
vage goes; then take clear water, not too hot for that makes 
them yellow, and strain the water through a cloth; Take a small 
Quantity of the best soap, put it upon a clean Stick and beat up 
your lather; let it not be with a whisk because it will make the 
water yellow. 

Let your Mushns stand to soak, then wash them one by one, 
squeeze them, and shake them open into a dish; then let your 
Second Lather be beat up as your first only hotter, but not 
Scalding. Wash whilst they are warm and squeeze as before; 
as to the third Lather let the Water be scalding, but not boiling, 
for that makes the water yellow. * * * To rinse them take 
Pump water in a clean pan with a small quantity of Powder Blue. 
* * * Squeeze them very hard and pull them out with dry 
Hands. * * * * 

To Starch. Take a Pint of Pump water to a Quarter of a 
Pound of Starch, put the Water in a Skillet, and put it over a 
46 



clear Fire till it is lukewarm, then put in your Starch, keep it 
stirring one Way till it boils, one Boil and no more; when it is 
cold, take some upon your hand, and some Blue in the other 
Hand, and mix them together, but make it not too blue; take 
your muslins doubled as before one by one, then spread the 
starch with your Hand but not too thick, first on one side and 
then the other, but not open it; * * when you have starched 
the Muslins, lay them in an earthen Dish, Kneading them with 
your double Fist, till the starch sticks about your Hands, then 
Squeezing them hard wipe them with a dry cloth; open them, 
rub them slightly through your Hands; take the two Ends, and 
50 clap them between your Hands; hold them against the Light 
to See if they are clapped enough. If any Thing looks shining, 
that is the Starch, you might rub it over gently; when they are 
clapped enough you will observe them to fly asunder, and not 
stick to your hands; but observe to clap very thick and very 
hard, for if you let them dry they will be limber. You must 
never clap them single, for that frays and tears them; neither 
clap by the Fire, except in frosty weather, for that spoils the 
Colour. 

For the ironing of Muslins, pull them out double on the Board, 
as smooth and even as you can, and so on till you finish about 
six one upon another; then with your Box-iron, iron the under 
one first, because it is the driest. Let fine plain muslin be ironed 
upon a soft woolen cloth. * * * * 

A whole Book might be written on the Art of clear starching, 
but all the Directions in the World cannot make a Skilled 
Starcher. It can only be learned by years of labour. 

Spruce Beer. For a half barrel kag, take a good sized 
bunch of spruce and birch twigs, a little princess piney, some 
checkerberry leaves, a few rings of dried pumpkin, a good hand- 
ful of hops, some malt or bran, or both, and anything else you 
like. Boil them all together in the big pot until the taste is 

47 



well out. Strain off the liquor, add a quart or two of molasses 
and a pint of emptins. Pour it into the beer keg and let it 
work a day or two before using. It will keep a week or two 
Save some of the emptins in the bottom of the keg to raise the 
next . — Compiled. 

Blackberry Wink. Jam the berries and let them stand 
twelve hours. Strain and add three pounds sugar to three quarts 
juice; let it stand twenty-four hours. Add water enough to 
make a gallon. Do not close it tight until it is done ferment- 
ing, then cork up. 

All kinds of berry wine can be made the same way, except 
that currants require four pounds of sugar to a gallon of juice 
and water. 

Raspberry Vinegar. Pour three pints vinegar over one 
and a half pints raspberries. Let it stand twenty-four hours. 
Then strain the liquor over another one and a half pint of ber- 
ries and let it stand twenty-four hours. Repeat this the third 
day. Drain off the vinegar through a jelly bag without squeezing^ 
into a stone jar. To every pint of liquor put one pound of pounded 
loaf sugar. When sugar is disolved cover the jar and set it in a 
saucepan of boiling water. Boil an hour, skimming often. When 
cold bottle. Use no metal vessel in doing this. A large spoonful 
in a glass of water makes a refreshing beverage, good for colds 
or fevers. — Mrs. Solly. 

Candle Dipping. The young girls in the family who are 
learning to spin can practice on the candle wicking. Keep a 
supply on hand by having them do it at odd times. Tow does 
very well for common candles. Buy a little cotton for the best 
ones. Cut the wicking by winding it around a board of the 
proper length, and running a sharp knife across the end. Put 
six wicks on each candle rod, doubling and twirling each one. 
Dip them in alum water to keep the candles from running. 
48 



Place two long poles across the kitchen a foot or more apart, 
resting the ends on chair backs at a convenient height from the 
fioor, and put an old board under them to catch the drips. Melt 
the tallow in a brass kettle and set on the floor. Take the rods 
one at a time and dip the wicks in the hot tallow, Before they 
cool and stiffen, straighten each wick carfully and pinch the 
end close. Any carelessness in this first dip will make a 
■crooked candle. If they hang straight and at even distances on 
the rods, the whole dripping is made easy. Rest the rod across 
the poles. When you have gone through all the rods, the first 
ones will be cool enough to begin again. Take two rods this 
time in your right hand, with the forefinger between to keep 
them apart. Dip the wicks in with a quick slanting motion, 
letting them stay just long enough to take a coating of tallow, 
but not long enough to melt the first coat. Keep the kettle full 
and hot by pouring in boiling water as the tallow lowers. If it 
grows cool the candles will make faster but will be rough and 
uneven. Two dozen dippings ought to make them as large as 
an ordinary candle stick requires. Let them harden thoroughly 
before you slip them from the rods. Bees wax melted in the 
tallow makes them harden. Bleach some of the best ones by 
hanging them in the window when the sun will strike them. 

If you wish to make only a few run them in molds. 

Potato Starch. Peel and grate a quantity of potatoes; 
put the pulp into a coarse cloth between two boards and press 
it dry. Mix the juice with an equal quantity of water. In an 
hour's time it will deposit a fine sediment, on which pour boil- 
ing water, and your starch is ready for use. Or dry the sedi- 
ment in the sun and keep for future use. 

Skimmed Milk is a good starch for calicoes. 

— Economical Housekeeper. 

Substitutes for Tea and Coffee. The leaves of currant 
bushes picked very small and dried on tin can hardly be dis- 

49 



tinguished from green tea. Peas roasted and ground are an 
excellent substitute for coffee and you would hardly know 
which was best. — Economical Housekeeper . 

Save all your fish skin, wash and dry it and keep to settle 
coffee. 

Shob Blacking. Wash elderberries in a kettle of water. 
Set them in the shade for a day or two to ferment, then boil it 
half a day, adding a little water as needed. Strain the liquid 
and boil it down to the thickness of molasses. It will give a fine 
gloss with rubbing. — Economical Housekeeper. 

Good Writing Ink can be made the same way. 

To Prevent:Flies from Injuring Picture Frames, Etc. 
Boil three or four onions in a pint of water; then with a gilding 
brush do over your pictures and frames. The flies will not light 
on them. This may be used without apprehension, as it will 
not do the least injury to the frames. — Ecoonmical Housekeeper. 

Rose Water. Pick rose leaves when they are in full blos- 
som. Put a peck of them to a quart of water in a cold still 
over a slow fire and distill very gradually. Bottle the water, 
let it stand three days and cork it close. 

To Preserve Sweet Flag. Scrape and wash the flag root 
and cut it in thin slices. Boil until it is tender. Make a thick 
syrup of sugar and water and boil the flag in it until it candies. 
Spread it out to dry. 

Dry Sweet Flag-Root. Grated and mixed with sugar it 
cures colic in babies. 



50 



Purple Slate. Boil the paper that comes around loaf sugar 
in cider in an iron pot. Set with alum. 

Nankeen. A piece of copperas half as big as a hen's egg 
in a pail of lye will make a color that will never wash out. 
Useful to line bedquilts. Old faded gowns can be colored and 
made into petticoats. 

Straw Color. Saffron steeped in earthen and strained. 

Bird of Paradise Color. Dry the outside skin of onions, 
and steep in scalding water. 

Dark Slate. Boil maple leaves, set with alum. 

Brown. Boil butternuts. Set with alum. 



SI 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



f)i9tory of Decrfield. 

By GEORGE SHELDON. 

An authentic history from original documents, 
covering a period from 1636- 1886. Twenty-five 
years of careful labor and research have produced a 
work invaluable to all students of local history and 
genealogy, and a source of enjoyment to everyone. 
The author's genuine enthusiasm for his subject en- 
ables him to portray in living colors the bygone days 
of hardship and peril of our forefathers. 

Two vols. 8vo. pp 1400. Cloth $Jo.oo. 
Orders receired by the author or at Memorial Hall, Deerfield, Mass. 



The Deerfield Society of Blue and White 
Needlework reproduces unique colonial 
linen embroideries in fine needle work 
adapted for modern uses; door hangings, 
curtains, bed spread and table furnishings 
from unpublished designs, over one hun- 
dred years old. Every piece of work 
executed bears the seal of the Society. 
Margaret Miller, Sec'y. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



Buy all of your Teas and Coffees of 

LESTER A. LUEY, 

Grocer, 

Greenfield, Mass. 

Your trade solicited. Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

CHAS. D. SHAW, 

Cracker, Bread and Cake Baker, 

Greenfield, Mass. 

Our Extract of Vanilla and Lemon should be used by every 
good cook. We sell them in bulk or in bottles. 

LOWELL & FISKE, 

Druggists, 

5 Bank Row, Greenfield, Mass. 

C. O. GRAVES & SON, 

Bakery, Confectioners' and Ice Cream Parlors, 

Masonic Block, Greenfield, Mass. 

FRANKLIN HOUSE, 

Livery and Feed Stable in Connection. 

John Mead, Prop'r. Greenfield, Mass. 

TROY STEAM LAUNDRY. 

Simons' Brick Block, Davis Street, Greenfield, Mass. 

H. E. Davis, Prop'r. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



B08C0N SCORe, 

Thos. White, Manager. 
Hovey's Block, Greenfield, Mass. 

Our stock of Wash Goods is unexcelled 

in Franklin County. 

Our stock of Underwear and Hosiery is the best ever shown in Greenfield 

and prices are unapproachable. 

L. A. COOK, 

Clothier, Furnisher and Hatter, 

Cor. Main and Federal Sts. 

GREENFIELD. 

WM. CARNEY, 

ARTIST TAILOR, 

57 Main Street, Greenfield, Mass. 



C. S. BARRETT, 

Clothing, Hats and Furnishings, 

Pond's Block, Greenfield, Mass. 

J. M. WELLS & CO. 

Dealers in Boots, Shoes and Rubbers, 

83 Main Street, Greenfield, Mass. 

CLAPP'S SHOE STORE, 

Leaders in Stylish Footwear, Griffiths Bros. Co., Propr's. 

72 Main St., Greenfield, Mass. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



R. A. RICHARDS, D. D. S., 
DENTIST, 

Botsford's Block, 51 Main Street, 

Greenfield, Mass. 

Office Hours: 8.30 to 12 A. M. i to 5.30 P. M. 

Crown and Bridge Work a Specialty. 

When you are following the directions for cooking given in 
this book perchance you may find that some of your extracts are 
low. If so, the White Pharmacy invite you to try theirs for 
they are the best. In bringing your Prescriptions to us you get 
the best goods obtainable correctly dispensed. 

THE WHITE PHARMACY, 
55 Main Street, Greenfield, Mass. 

THE GEO. H. HOVEY PHARMACY, 

HENRY C. WILLARD, MGR. 

Prescription Specialists, and Family Chemists. 

Greenfield, Mass. 

WINN & GRISW^OLD, 
Attorneys at Law, 
Rooms 2, 3 and 4, Pond's Block, Main Street, 

Greenfield, Mass. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



Buy your Flour, Grain, and Groceries, 

AT 

Lamb's Cash Grain Store, 

Best of Goods. Lowest Prices. 

We send a team every day to accommodate 
our Deerfield customers. 

SHELDON & NEWCOMB, 

HARDWARE, 

Arms Block, Greenfield, Mass. 

WM. M. SMEAD, 

DEALER IN FINE GROCERIES, 

71 Main Street, Greenfield, Mass. 

WELLS & NASH, 

Pharmacists, 
Geo. A. Arms' Block, Greenfield, Mass. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



Public Attention ! For first-class Dry Goods and Carpets, 

the latest styles at low prices, call at 
J. GEO. YETTER'S, Greenfield, Mass, 

JOHN KENNEDY, 

The Greenfield Tailor. Foreign and domestic cloth, trimmings. 

Up Stairs, Pond's Block, Greenfield, Mass. 

M. A. O'BRIEN, Millinery, 

Mansion House Block, Main St., Greenfield, Mass. 

Veilings and Baby Bonnets, Corsets and Underwear. 

HAWKS & REED, Clothiers, 

Hatters and Men's Furnishers. Agents for the Dunlap Hat. 

Arms Block, Greenfield, Mass, 

One of the best ways to waste good 
money is to buy poor goods. To those 
who appreciate the value of Good House- 
furnishings we offer the assortment of 
our stock. 

E E. PIERCE, 

Greenfield, - Mass. 

Telephone 35-3. 
Undertaking in all its branches. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



J. W. Stbvens, Prest. John E. Donovan, Cash. 

The First National Bank, 

GREENFIELD, MASS. 
Capital, $200,000. Surplus $140,000. 



Safe Deposit Boxes to Rent. 



GREENFIELD SAVINGS BANK, 

RoBT, Abercrombib, Prcst. Wm. A. Forbes, Vice-Prest. 

Amount due 5000 depositors, $2,200,000. 

Guarantee Fund and Undivided Profits, 125,000. 

Quarter Days: January, April, July and October ist. 

Albert M. Gleason, Treasurer. 

Your Cook Book is not complete without one of the 

New Stirling Ranges. 

FOR SALE BY R. P. WHIPPLE, 

Greenfield, Mass. 

FRARY BROTHERS, 
Heating and Plumbing Contractors, 

Office at 
South Deerfield, Mass. 

O. S. ARMS, 
Dealer in Boots, Shoes and Rubbers, 

Please Call. SO. DeERFIELD, MaSS. 

EDSON M. ROCHE, Pharmacist, 
So. Deerfield, Mass. 
Books and Magazines. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



M. L. MINER, Veterinarian, 
Office and residence, 23 Main St., Greenfield. 



Agent for Board of Cattle Commissioners. 

Some Folks buy goods hastily and repent it 
when they have more time. Whether you have 
time or leisure if you call on us for Furniture or 
Undertaking, we will have you perfectly satisfied. 

GREEN & VOSBURGH, 
Telephone. Greenfield, Mass. 

If in need of Cemetery Work of any kind, do 

not fail to see our work and 

get our prices. 

GREENFIELD GRANITE AND MARBLE CO. 

Miles Street, Greenfield, Mass. 



Cameras and Supplies. 

Theo. C. Forbes, 

I Mansion House Bl'k. 

Greenfield. 



Send your Watches and 

Jewelry for Repairs to 
C. P. FORBES, 

Jeweler and Optician, 

I Mansion House Blk. 
GREENFIELD. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



BLOODY BROOK HOUSE, 

so. DEERFIELD, MASS. 

Free Carriage to and from all trains. 



C. L. Hayden, Manager. 



The pocumtuc Dou3em% 

Published by the Willard 
Lend - a- Hand Societ\^ o f 
Deerfield, Mass. . . . 



price 50 ct9. 



Copies may be had of Miss Jane Pratt, 
Miss Margaret Miller or Miss Mary 
E. Allen of Deerfield. 



# 



t 



J^#^ 



/ 



Done at Ye Print Shop 
of John d. Otto, 
Springfield 



-I 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 753 8 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket 



