\ 




LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 



Chap., Copyright No.. 



Shelf. 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



V 



MARSHALL 
LADIES' 
CHOICEST 
AMD BEST. 



> 



y COMPILED BY 

THE LADIES OF ST. CECELIA GUILD, 
Marshall, Minn. 













^P^ 












To the 






HOUSEWIVES OF AMERICA 


This 


little 


boDk is respectfully dedicated, with the sincere 
wish that it may make 

America's cooking easier, , 
Her children healthier, 
Her women happier, 
Her men better. 




Copyright, 1898. 






'A^\%'^ ^A€>\'?).^r^ 



V ^^^ 



INDEX. 

Soups, .-.--. y-g 

Fish and Oysters, . . - . n-i^ 

Poultry, ..--.. |y.2o 

Meats, - - - - , - - 22-28 

Vegetables, ------ 30-32 

Entrees, . . . . . 34-38 

Salads, ------ 40-44 

Eggs, ------ 45 

Bread, Biscuits, Etc., .... 4-7-53 

Puddings, . . . . . 55-67 

Pies, --...- 69-77 

Cake, - ..... 7991 

Filling, Frosting, Etc., .... 93-95 

Cookies and Doughnuts, - - - - 96-102 

Pickles and Catsups, .... 104-110 

Jellies and Preserves, - - . . 111-113 

Ice Creann and Other Ices, - - - - 114-iiy 

Beverages, - - . . . 119-120 

Candies, ...... 121-123 

Menu for Prize Dinner, - - . . 125-127 

Luncheon for Forty Persons, - - - 128-129 

Miscellaneous, .... 130-133 



o 

z 

m 

-J 
Q. 



1873 



ESTABLISHED IN MARSHALL 



1873. 



J. P. WATSON & SON, 

-^DEALERS IN-^ 

Hardware, Furnaces, Stoves, Ranges, Tin- 
ware, Woodenware, Bicycles, Sport= 
ing Goods, Paints and Oils, 
Window Glass, Cut= 
lery. Silverware, 
Etc., Etc. 

Our specialty is everything used in the kitchen from a one- 
cent basin to a "Majestic" Range Our Housekeeper's 
department is most complete and prices are right every 
time. Visitors are welcome and courteous attention ex- 
tended to all whether purchases are made or not. When 
down town step in and look our Bargain Counters over — 
they are sure to interest you. Yours to please, 

J. P. Watson & Son, 



CO 



o 



BICYCLE REPAIRING. 



Youmans Bros. 
& Hodgins, 

Manufacturers and Wholesale Dealers in 

Pine Lumber. 



Extensive and Varied Assortment Always on Hand. 
Marshall, Minn. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

Two and a half teaspoonfuls make one tablespoon- 
fiil. 

Four tablespoonfuls make one winegiassful. 

Two wineglassfuls make one gill. 

Two gills make one teacupful. 

Two teacupfuls make one pint. 

Four teaspoonfuls salt make one ounef'. 

One nnd a half teaspoonfuls granulated sugar make 
one ounce. 

Two tablespoonfuls flour make one ounce. 

Two cups, or one pint, granulated sugar weighs 
about one pound. 

One scant quart wheat flour weighs about one pound. 

Ten ordinary sized eggs weigh about one pound. 

A piece of butter the size of an egg weighs about one 
and a half ounces. 

Two cups of butter weigh about one pound. 




BALDWIN'S 

BARGAIN 

BAZAAR. 

WE don't know 
how to make 
pies and cakes, but 
we are makers of 
music. Our favorite 
air is " Good Goods 
at Low Prices," and 
it makes our store 
hum. 

Please call and see us. 
Yours respectfully, 

T.J.BALDWIN. 



P rank J^ P arker. 

Good things to eat — 

Groceries. 

Good things to eat them from 

Crockery. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 



SOUPS. 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP. 

One quart milk heated in double boiler. Put in an 
onion and few pieces of celery. Skim out when milk 
is thoroughly hot. Have ready one cup finely mashed 
potato. Stir it into the potato; also, lump of butter, 
and salt to taste. Serve very hot. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Six large potatoes, boiled and put through a col- 
ander; add one cup cream, three pints hot milk, one- 
half cup butter. Beat one egg light; add one table- 
spoon flour and a little cold milk to thin it; add celery, 
parsley, and onion, if liked. Strain through sieve, and 

serve hot. MRS. O. E. JENKINS, Chicago. 

CREAM POTATO SOUP. 

One quart milk, six large potatoes, one stalk celery, 
one onion, one tablespoon butter. Put milk, celery 
and onion on to boil. Boil potatoes thirty minutes; 
pour water off and mash fine; salt to taste; add to 
milk. Whip a cup of cream and add just before serv- 

^^S- MRS. JOHN L. WATSON. 

CORN SOUP. 

Six ears of corn, scraped; one-half cup cream; one 
tablespoon butter; one pint milk; one-half cup water. 
Boil corn in, water twenty minutes, being careful not 
to let burn. Add butter, cream and milk. Let come 
to a boil. Season to taste. ^rs. v. b. seward. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 



VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Scrape two carrots, an onion, one-fourth head cab- 
bage, and two turnips. Cut them in small pieces. 
Put them in a large saucepan, with a little butter and 
water. Let it cook one-half hour, then cut three good 
sized potatoes fine, and add. Take meat out of soup 
kettle, skim off grease, put vegetables into it, and let 
cook another half hour. In the language of the aver- 
age school girl, "It's perfectly lovely!" 

NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

Break two eggs into bowl; beat until light; add 
pinch salt; then add flour until you have very stiff 
dough. Turn on molding board, and work until as 
smooth as glass. Roll very thin, and cut in very nar- 
row strips. Having prepared some good veal, chicken, 
or other broth, well seasoned, one-half hour before 
dinner drop in noodles. Be sure soup is boiling. If 
noodles are made according to directions they will be 
found superior to macaroni. 

CHICKEN CREAM SOUP. 

One chicken, season with salt and pepper; one onion 
(if you like); four quarts w^ater boiled down to two 
quarts; two egg yolks (boiled hard), chopped fine; one 
pint sweet milk; one pint cream. When chicken is 
done, take breast and chop fine. Put chopped meat 
and egg in broth, and simmer a few minutes; then add 
milk boiling hot. 

MRS. A. D. EMERY, Minneapolis. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 



TOMATO SOUP. 

One quart of tomatoes; one of water. Stew until 
soft. Add small teaspoon soda; allow to effervesce, 
and add one quart boiling milk; salt, butter and pep- 
per to taste, jyjj^g ^y g THORBURN. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

One quart chicken stock, one quart beef stock, one- 
third pound vermicelli cooked in clear water twenty 
minutes; butter, salt and pepper to taste. 

MRS. S. N. HARRINGTON. 

NORWEGIAN SOUP. 

One large cup sago, one pound raisins, one pound 
currants, one pound best prunes, one tablespoon vine- 
gar, pinch salt and several cinnamon sticks. Water 
to make like thick sauce; cook several hours; sugar 
to taste. Thin at the last with one pint good red wine; 
take out cinnamon sticks; keep thinned with water. 

MRS. L. M. LANGE. 

TOMATO BISQUE. 

One quart of stewed tomatoes, either fresh or 
canned, one quart of water and one medium-sized on- 
ion sliced very fine. Heat thoroughly, and put through 
a sieve or fine strainer, so as to make perfectly smooth ; 
stir in a half teaspoon of soda, add one-half bottle of 
Heinz catsup, two teaspoons of sugar; season with 
salt, pepper and two tablespoons of butter. Heat to 
boiling point, and thicken with two tablespoons of 
flour. Serve in cups with crackers buttered and 
browned in the oven. 

MRS. H. J. MOWREY. Watertown. S. D. 



10 



M. J, CHMMBERLMIN, 

BERLER IN 

,.,,,, GROCERIES 

KsBping the best ana 

dsfending the pBnpIe i — 7 j- j 1 — -, j—] 1 — ? 

against high prices /jj^jj EJ JEJ_ [_] J_j EJ 1 
is oar pleasant duty, 

Yoars truly, 

R. J. CHRMEERLMIN. 

Main StrsBt, Marshall, Minn. 

The 
Breck School and Business College 

Wilder, Jackson Co., Minn. 

A Boarding School for both sexes, 
especially suited for farmers' sons and 
daughters and for pupils of moderate 
means. Four large buildings. Full corps 
of teachers. Academic and business 
courses. Pupils received at any time. 
First-class instruction in music. 

Address, Terms, I130 per year. 

THE SUPERINTENDENT, 

Wilder, Jackson Co., Minn. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 11 

FISH AND OYSTERS. 

STEWED OYSTERS (IN MILK OR CREAM). 

Drain the liquor from two quarts of oysters; mix 
with it a small teacupful of hot water; add a little salt 
and pepper, and set it over the fire in a sauce pan. Let 
it boil up once; put in the oysters; let them come to 
a boil, and when they "ruffle" add two tablespoonfuls 
of butter. The instant it is melted and well stirred in, 
put in a pint of boiling milk, and take the sauce pan 
from the fire. Serve while hot, with oyster or cream 
crackers. If thickening is preferred, stir in a little 
Hour, or two tablespoonfuls of crackers. 

FISH TURBOT. 

Boil a white-fish until tender; remove bones and 
sprinkle with pepper and salt. Heat one pint of milk 
and thicken with three tablespoons of flour. When 
cool, add two eggs, three tablespoons of butter and a 
bit of chopped onion or parsley. Place a layer of fish 
in a baking dish, then a layer of sauce, until full. 
Cover the top with bread crumbs and bake half an 

llOUr- MRS. JOHN L. WATSON. 

DRY OYSTER STEW. 

Take six to twelve large oysters and cook them in 
half a pint of their own liquor ; season with butter and 
white pepper; cook for five minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Serve in hot soup plates or bowis. 



12 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Have ready about a pint bowl of cracker crumbs. 
Butter a deep earthen dish; put a layer of cracker 
crumbs on the bottom; wet this with some of the oys- 
ter liquor; next have a layer of ousters; sprinkle them; 
then another layer of cracker crumbs and o^^ster juice; 
then oysters, pepper, salt and butter, and so on, until 
the dish is full, the top layer to be cracker crumbs. 
Beat up an egg in a cup of milk, and turn over all. 
Cover the dish and set it in the oven for thirty or forty 
minutes. When baked through, uncover the top, set 
on the upper grate and brown. 

OYSTER ROAST, NO. 2. 

Put one quart of oysters in a basin with their own 
liquor, and let them boil three or four minutes; sea- 
son with a little salt, pepper and a heaping spoonful 
of butter. Serve on buttered toast. 

SALMON TURBOT. 

One can of salmon, picked to pieces and all the bones 
removed. For the dressing, take one pint of cream 
and milk, mixed; put it on to boil, and when boiling 
add two small tablespoons of cornstarch, which has 
been mixed with a little cold milk. Cook ten minutes, 
stirring all the time, and add a little salt. Put a layer 
of salmon in a baking dish, then a layer of dressing, 
and so on until all is used. Sprinkle the top with 
bread crumbs and bits of butter, and bake fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Serve with slices of lemon. 

MRS. JOHN BURCHARD. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 13^ 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Take large oysters from their own liquor into a 
thickly folded napkin, to dry them; then make hot an 
ounce of butter and lard, in a thick-bottom frying pan. 
Season the oysters with pepper and salt; then dip each 
one into egg and cracker crumbs rolled fine until it 
will take up no more. Place them in the hot grease 
and fry them a delicate brown, turning them on both 
sides by sliding a broad-bladed knife under them. 
Serve them crisp and hot. Some prefer to roll oysters 
in cornmeal, and others use flour; but they are much 
more crisp with egg and cracker crumbs. 

MRS. A. J. CHAMBERLAIN. 

MINCED CLAMS ON TOAST. 

Open two dozen little neck clams and chop finely, 
taking care to save all the liquor. Put into a pan witli 
half an ounce of butter, and season with red pepper 
and Worcester sauce. Stew for a few minutes and 
thicken with cream sauce. Serve on toast. 

B. C. MORSE. 

MOLDED SALMON. 

Turn out a can of salmon and free the fish from skin 
and bones. Beat two eggs and add to the salmon, with 
one cup of bread crumbs, one tablespoon of lemon 
juice, one tablespoon of chopped parsley, and salt and 
pepper to taste. Pack in a well buttered mold and 
steam two hours. 

MRS. J. L. W^ATSON. 



14 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 



CREAMED SALMON. 

One pound salmon; one cup sweet cream; two tea- 
spoons cornstarch, rubbed smooth with one tablespoon 
butter; one-half cup milk; a pinch of soda; pepper 
and salt to taste. Turn salmon from can to drain ofE 
liquor; pick fish into small flakes, carefully removing 
all bones and skin. Have ready the milk and cream, 
heated with soda, and add to them the cornstarch and 
butter, stirring constantly, until it thickens smoothly. 
Then put in salmon and toss about with fork until it 
is heated through. Remove from fire and turn into a 
greased baking dish. Sprinkle with bread crumbs 
and a few pieces of butter on top, and set in oven long 
enough to brown. Serve with sliced lemon, on toast 
or crackers. 

SALMON. 

One and a half pounds of fresh salmon, cut in one 
piece. Salt well and wrap in a thin cotton cloth; put 
in a steamer and steam until tender (about half an 
hour); carefully remove all skin and bones. Take a 
pint of sweet milk; let boil, and thicken with flour to 
a smooth gravy, adding a tablespoonful of butter, and 
salt to taste. Gently lay the salmon in it and let it 
heat through; then, carefully, so as not to break it into 
too small pieces, place it on a platter and turn the 
dressing over it. A pound can of salmon may be used 
in this way, removing the salmon from the can and 
taking away all bits of skin and bone and then heating 
it in the dressing. ^^^^^ louisa n. wimer. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 15 

FRICASSEED OYSTERS. 

Cook one pint of oysters in hot butter till plump, 
using one tablespoon of butter, half a saltspoon of 
white pepper, half a teaspoon of salt and a few grains 
of red pepper. Drain and keep them hot. Add enough 
cream to the liquor to make a large cupful. Cook one 
tablespoon of flour in one tablespoon of butter; add 
slowly the cream and oyster liquor, and a little lemon 
juice, if you like the flavor. Pour the sauce onto one 
well beaten egg; add the hot oysters and heat one 
minute. Serve on toast, if for breakfast; in paper 
cases, if for dinner or luncheon. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. 

One tablespoon butter; one tablespoon flour; one 
cup of cream; half cup of sherry wine; salt and red 
pepper to taste. Cook until thick Add meats of two 
good sized lobsters, or two cans of lobster. Serve hot 
on buttered toast. 3 (^ morse. 

SALMON CROQUETTES. 

/ One can salmon, six rolled crackers, one egg, pinch 
of salt, one tablespoon cream or milk. Mash salmon 
fine; add egg, crackers and cream; form into rolls and 
fry in hot lard. This receipt will make one dozen. 

MRS. MADISON. 



16 



Dr. Van Tassel 

IReeibent 
IDentiet 

Marshall, - - Minn. 



Schneider, Hallo 

XrCn ^ 

DEALERS IN 

DRY GOODS, 
GLOTfiING, 

BOOTS AND 

SHOES, GRO- 
CERIES, E,TC 



Ross Lumber Co. 

Lumber, 
eoal 



Wood. 



D. D. Forbes & Co. 

(d. D. FORBES, J. A. MCNIVEN.) 

Loans, Collections, and 
Insurance. 



Real Estate 
Agents. 



Farms and 
City Property 
For Sale. 

reference: Lyon County Bank. 

MARSHALL, = MINNESOTA. 



J. Prerrard, 

Boots and 
Shoes. 
Horses and 
Farm Lands. 



Quong Chong: 

L^ UXOR F. 

First-class 
WorK at th)e 
f^ Lowest Prices. 

Family Washingfs 
a Specialty. 




Marshall Ladies^ Choicest and Best. 17 

POULTRY. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

Make dressing in usual manner; add to it three 
chopped apples and a large handful of prunes, not pit- 
ted. Stuff goose with this, and while baking baste 
often with wine and water, using wine alone for last 
basting. Remove grease, and add a little wine for 
gravj-; thicken with flour. Currant jelly, lemon juice 
and hot water may be used instead of wine. 

MRS. L. M. LANGE. 

CHICKEN POT-PIE. 

Cut up chicken; put into boiling water. When it 
boils, skim. Season and cook until tender. Thicken 
gravy a little. . Make dumplings as follows: One pint 
flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one-half teaspoon 
salt, tablespoon sugar; mix, and wet with one small 
cup milk; roll one-half inch thick; cut in small pieces; 
put on top of chicken. Cook fifteen minutes. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Make crust like baking powder biscuit, only a trifle 
shorter. Roll one-half inch thick, and line four-quart 
dish. Have ready two small chickens, which have 
been boiled till tender. Place pieces of chicken in pan ; 
season. Put in pieces of butter; pour in liquor they 
were boiled in; roll crust for top; bake until crust is 
thoroughly done. 



18 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

JELLIED CHICKEN. 

Boil chicken until very tender; season with salt and 
pepper before removing from fire ; let stock cool; then 
skim off oil and heat again. Stir in one tablespoon 
gelatine, which has been soaked one hour in three ta- 
blespoons of water. Slice two hard boiled eggs very 
thin, and place them around the sides and bottom of 
a dish. Cut chicken fine,* leaving out skin, putting 
lightly in dish with eggs. Pour stock over this. When 
hardened, turn out on platter. Garnish with celery. 

MRS. E. CHAMPLIN. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Cut up the fowls, and place in a kettle with a tight 
cover to retain the steam, with two cups of water, salt 
and pepper to season, and lump of butter the size of an 
egg. Cook until the meat comes easily from the bones. 
Chop all fine, and pack in a mold, turning what juice 
remains over the chicken. When quite cold, slice, or 
simply turn out of the mold and serve. Do not let the 
water boil away while cooking. j^jj^g j -^ ^^-^ 

JELLIED CHICKEN. 

Cook chicken and cut in pieces. Boil four eggs hard 
to each chicken; one box of Knox's gelatine, soaked 
in water. Season the liquor of the chicken. You 
should have about a quart. While hot pour over 
chicken. Place in a mold a layer of the meat, then a 
layer of the sliced egg, and so on. Then pour the liq- 
uor over. MRS. JOHN L. WATSON. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 



19 



BAKED CHICKEN. 

Make nice dressing, stuff chicken, and roast until 
done, basting often with butter and water, if an open 
pan is u^ed. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Cut up chicken; roll in flour, and then in beaten egg- 
have lard and little butter hot in iron spider. Put in 
chicken; salt and pepper; cover and cook until nicely 
browned; turn and brown other side. Veal cutlets 
are nice fried same way. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Prepare your turkey by breaking the leg bones close 
to knee, pulling the tendons from the thigh. Pour over 
melted butter, and dredge with salt and flour. Stuff 
turkey. Put in a hot oven, and baste frequently, al- 
lowing fifteen minutes to the pound. When the legs 
begin to cleave from the body, it is done enough to rV 
move from the oven, 

DRESSING. 

Take lean fresh pork and beef, equal quantities, and 
giblets of turkey. Put them in boiling water; cook 
until tender; then remove from stock, cool and chop 
fine. Return to stock, with some biscuit (either stale 
or fresh), with a piece of butter, salt and pepper, sage 
and onion for seasoning. 

MRS. E. CHAMPLIN. 



20 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

Take a young goose; rub 'inside and out with salt. 
Make stuffing with four common sized onions, one 
ounce sage rubbed fine, one large coffee cup bread 
crumbs and one of mashed potato, salt and pepper, 
good piece butter, and an egg. Mix all together and 
stuff goose. Do not fill too full. It will take two and 
a half hours or more to cook it, with brisk fire. Baste 
often, if open pan is used. 

APPLE SAUCE TO SERVE WITH GOOSE. 

I'eel, core and cut up tart apples; stew them with 
little water; add grated peel and juice of lemon; 
sweeten to taste. When apples are done, mash smooth 
and serve. 

TURKEY DRESSED WITH OYSTERS. 

For a ten-pound turkey, take one quart bread 
crumbs, one-half cup butter (not melted), small teaspoon 
each of pepper and salt, and one pint of oysters. Rub 
turkey inside and out with salt; then fill first with 
dressing, then a few oysters, with some of the liquor. 
Cook giblets in dish, and chop fine for gravy. A fowl 
of this size will require three hours' cooking in mod- 
erate oven. 



21 




BALDWIN'S 

BARGAIN 

BAZAAR, 

MARSHALL, MINN. 



's^'ii-'-'m^f ' "^^^ Light, Clean, Cool in Summer, 
"'^ Warm in Winter, One Price 




Cash House. 

BEST VALUES FOR YOUR MONEY. 

We invite you to buy here. 

T.J. BALDWIN. 



Baldwin's Bargain Bazaar, 



Marshall, Minn. 



WH CAN FURNISH 
YOU WITH ALL KINDS 
OF .... 

Kitchen Utensils 

AT RIGHT PRICES. 



Dry Goods Too. 



T. J. BALDWIN. 



22 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

MEATS. 

HOW LONG TO COOK. 

Roast beef (weight eight pounds, rare) — Fifty min- 
utes. 

Roast beef (weight eight pounds, well done) — One 
and a quarter hours. 

Ten minutes for each additional pound. 

Twenty minutes longer for back of rump. 

Saddle or loin of mutton — Same as beef, but for leg 
one and a quarter hours is the time. 

Lamb — One and a half hours. 

^'^eal — Three and three-quarter hours. 

Pork — Three and a quarter hours. 

Ham (boiled) — Six hours. 

Ham (roasted) — Boil fiye hours, put in oven and 
roast two more. 

MRS. L. S. SOWERS. 

PRESSED MEAT. 

Boil a soup bone thoroughly until meat drops off; 
pick off; season to taste with salt, pepper, a little sage 
if liked; press. 

STEWED VEAL KIDNEY. 

Boil kidney Jiight before, until tender; turn meat 
and gravy in dish. In morning boil a few minutes; 
add little flour to thicken, a little onion, salt, pepper 
and lump butter. Serve on toast. 

MRS. ROGERS 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 23 

EGG AND MINCED MEAT. 

Chop one pint cold chicken, ham or veal (or a little of 
each as you have on hand), and rub to a smooth paste. 
Add one tablespoon melted butter, one tablespoon 
chopped parsley, two beaten eggs, salt and pepper to 
taste. If too dry, moisten with little cream, stock, or 
gravy, but do not have it too soft to shape. Heat in a 
frying pan just enough to dry off. Form on a hot plat- 
ter in a flat mound. Hollow the center, leaving a ridge 
around the edge. Keep hot, and put two or three 
poached eggs in center. Garnish with triangles of 
buttered toast around the edge; also, add a garnish 
•of green parsley leaves. ^^^ j^^^^ burchard. 

MEAT BALLS. 

Chop raw round steak, taking out all fat and gristle. 
Add pepper and salt, and work in with spoon one beat- 
en egg, three tablespoons sweet cream. Work the 
whole with back of spoon until it forms a smooth 
paste. A little more cream or melted butter may be 
needed. Flour your hands lightly, make into balls, 
and fry in butter. ^^^ ^ ^ langb. 

CHOPPED HAM. 

Three tablespoons of ham, chopped fine; six eggs. 
Melt a large spoon of butter in a frying pan, drop the 
egg into it, and stir in the ham, which must, of course, 
have been previously cooked. 

MRS. S. MARSHALL. 



V 



24 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

DRIED BEEF. 

One-fourth pound of chipped dried beef pulled into 
shreds. Put in a skillet one tablespoon of butter and 
one of lard (or two of drippings). Add beef, and let 
fry until it curls up. Gradually add one heaping table- 
spoon of flour, and stir until well browned. Lastly, 
one pint of sweet milk is to be poured in, and gently 
stirred, so as to form a smooth gravj'. 

MRS. L. N. WIMER. 

BAKED VEAL HAM. 

Bone a breast of veal; chop the meat very fine; chop- 
an equal quantity of cold boiled ham, and six cold 
boiled eggs. Butter a deep pan ; put in a layer of veal; 
sprinkle with salt, pepper, thyme and anchovy or 
Worcestershire sauce, and then a layer of ham sprin- 
kled with the egg. Fill dish with alternate layers, us- 
ing both fat and lean of the ham; cover and bake 
slowly four hours. When done lay on it a weight. 
Serve in thin slices. selected. 

JELLIED VEAL. 

Boil veal tender; pick it up fine; put in a mold; add 
the water it was boiled in, and set in a cold place; sea- 
son with salt and pepper to taste. A layer of hard 
boiled eggs improves it. Put eggs in bottom of pan 
that it is pressed in ; soak one heaping teaspoon of gel- 
atine in cold water, and add to the cup of liquor; pour 
over meat and eggs. ^^^_ standring. 



Marshall Ladies^ Choicest and Best. 25 

SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES. 

One pair of sweetbreads; oue gill of milk; yolks of 
two eggs; five drops of onion juice; one-half table- 
spoon of melted butter; two tablespoons of flour; one 
tablespoon of cliopped parsley; one-half teaspoon of 
salt; pepper and nutmeg to taste. Parboil the sw^eet- 
breads; chop them fine. Scald the milk, being careful 
not to scorch. Rub butter and flour together; stir into 
the milk. Take from the fire. Add the yolks of the 
eggs, sweetbreads and seasoning; salt to taste; mix 
well; turn out to cool; then form into croquettes. 
Dip each into the white of an egg, then in bread 
crumbs. Fry in hot cottolene. Nice served with green 

P^^^- MRS. E. CHAMPLIN. 



VEAL LOAF. 



/ 



Three pounds of veal; half a pound of salt pork, 
chopped together; one cup bread or cracker crumbs; 
three eggs; one cup good stock; one lemon (juice and 
grated rind); one tablespoon chopped parsley and 
capers; pepper and salt to taste. Mix thoroughly, put 
layer of crumbs on top, and bake slowly for three 
hours. Serve with tomato sauce. 

MRjS. WM. EVERETT. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

One quart can tomatoes; one onion, chopped fine; 
twelve cloves. Let all simmer for one hour. Rub 
through sieve; add salt, sugar and pepper to taste. 

MRS. WM. EVERETT. 



26 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

EOLLS OF COLD MEAT. 

Take two cups of any cold cooked meat; mix with a 
tablespoon of butter, two tablespoons of bread crumbs, 
yolks of two eggs, one teaspoon onion juice, one of salt, 
half a grated nutmeg, a pinch of black pepper. Put in 
a frying pan over the fire; stir until heated. Take up. 
When cold, form in balls; dip first in beaten egg; then 
in bread crumbs; fry in cottolene. Serve with sauce 
made from stock: Melt one tablespoon butter and one 
of flour; mix one cup of stock and two tablespoons of 
cream; salt and pepper; stir until it boils; take from 
fire and stir in the beaten yolk of an egg. 

MRS. E. CHAMPLIN. 

POTTED BEEF. 

Put beef in kettle with some little slices of salt pork 
at bottom, little salt and pepper. Pour over two table- 
spoons vinegar. When it has fried a little turn, and 
in ten minutes add one-half pint water. Don't let boil 
dry. Add little hot water occasionally. Cook slowly 
and keep covered. Is nice way to cook tough meat. 

SELECTED. 

MEAT ROLLY-POLY. 

Chop fine the remains of a roast or steak; season 
with salt, pepper and a little nutmeg; also, a very lit- 
tle onion. Make a pie crust; roll thin, and spread 
thickly with the meat; roll it up and bake half an hour. 
Serve with brown sauce or tomato sauce. 

MRS. WALTON. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 27 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

A yen- nice way to cook cutlets and chops is to bake 
them. The great object is to have veal and mutton 
thoroughly done. By baking you best accomplish that 
object Take dripping pan; rub a little butter over 
each cutlet, salt and pepper, and la}' flat in pans. Place 
in hot oven; cover with another pan same size. When 
done, make sauce called ^'Butter Maitre (V Hotel :^' Rub 
to soft paste a small piece butter with flour; pour over 
one-half cup boiling water. It will then thicken. Then 
add one teaspoon of lemon juice. Pour over cutlets, 
and serve. Or, serve without sauce, if preferred. 

CANNELON. 

One pound uncooked beef, chopped fine; yolk of one 
egg; one tablespoon chopped parsley; one tablespoon 
butter; two sablespoons bread crumbs; one teaspoon 
lemon juice; one teaspoon salt; three dashes black 
pepper. Mix all together, and form into a roll about 
6x4 inches. Wrap in greased paper and place in bak- 
ing tin in a quick oven. Bake thirty minutes, basting 
twice with melted butter. Make a brown gravy, and 
pour around loaf, after placing it on a platter. 

MRS. J. L. WATSON. 

CREAMED HAM. 

Warm one cup of finely chopped ham in one pint 
cream. Stir in quickly two well beaten eggs, little 
pepper and salt. Serve hot with thin slices of toast. 

SELECTED. 



28 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

SWEETBREAD. 

Soak one pair of sweetbreads in cold salt water for 
an hour or two. Turn off the water, add more water 
and wash well. Parboil in salted water for fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Set away to get cold. Peel off the 
skin, cut in slices, and roll in egg and cracker crumbs. 
Fry in half lard and half butter, 

MRS. JOHN L. WATSON. 

SAUSAGE. 

Five pounds chopped pork, lean and fat; five table- 
spoons salt; two tablespoons pepper; two tablespoons 
sage; two tablespoons summer savory. If you don't 
use summer savory, use more sage. 

MRS. STANDRING. 

BEEF LOAF. 

One pound of chopped beef. Salt and pepper to 
taste. Two eggs; one-fourth loaf of bread soaked in 
sweet milk. Mix all thoroughly, and bake until brown. 

PRANCES BLANCHE HILLYER. 



29 

The Diocesan Schools (Episcopal.) 
^^ =?."*^^ of Minnesota 

Rt. Rev. Bishop Whipple, Rector. 

Miss Caroline Wright Eells, Principal. 

A BOARDING SCHOOL FOR GIRLS 

ESTABLISHED IN 1866. 

Of the highest rank. Certificates admit to Wellesley 
and other first-class colleges. Special individual instruc- 
tion in music, instrumental and vocal, by teachers of •^ 
superior talents. Fine buildings. Complete equipment. 
A commodious gymnasium. Terms, $350 per year for 
tuition, board, room, washing, French and German. 

For catalogues and particulars address 

THE PRINCIPAL, 

ST. MARY'S HALL, FARIBAULT, MINN. 

Shattuck School J2LM5^ 

FARIBAUL.T. established laeo. 

REV. JAMES DOBBIN, D.D., Rector. 
CAPT. C. J. ABBOTT, U. S. A., Commandant. 

One of the famous schools of the country. Instruc- 
tion in all branches. Sixteen instructors. Finest school 
buildings in the country. Prepares for college and 
business. Discipline unsurpassed. Some of the leading 
men of the state are graduates of the school. Terms, 
I400 per year for tuition, board, washing, French and 

German. 

For catalogues and particulars address 

REV. JAMES DOBBIN, Rector. 

FARIBAULT, MINN. 



30 Marshall Ladies^ Choicest and Best. 

VEGETABLES. 

FRIED TOMATOEiS. 

Take large green tomatoes; cut off both ends, then 
cut one in three slices. Have some butter in frying 
pan; let it get hot; roll tomatoes in flour; put them 
in pan; salt, pepper, and sprinkle little sugar on. Cook 
till they are nice brown, and you will have a nice dish. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Take one quart Lima beans, one-half pound salt 
pork, one and a half dozen ears sweet corn. Boil pork 
one and a half hours in three quarts water, putting in 
beans when pork has boiled one-half hour. Cut corn 
off, putting it in one dish; into another scrape milk 
from cobs. When the beans are nearly done, put in 
corn and boil fifteen minutes; then add the milk from 
cobs, boiling all ten minates longer. It should be lit- 
tle thicker than gruel. Stir all the time after adding 
milk, or it will burn. If not sweet enough, add little 
sugar. 

BOILED BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil until tender; then slice several times the long 
way of potato. Place a layer in an earthen dish; 
sprinkle lightly with sugar, and heavily with butter; 
then another layer of potatoes, and so on, until dish is 
full, having butter and sugar for top layer. Bake 
thirty or forty minutes. ^^gg ^^^^^ halsted. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 31 



WARMED UP POTATOES WITH CREAM. 

Use potatoes boiled in jackets; put butter iu frying 
pan and let it get hot, but not burn; cut potatoes in 
small pieces; put them in pan with salt to taste. Let 
them cook thoroughly, stirring lightly to prevent burn- 
ing, but being careful not to mash or break the pieces. 
When ready to serve, pour over potatoes a quantity of 
thick, sweet cream, and stir them very lightly. Serve 
in hot dish. ^^j^g ^ ^ persons. 

ASPARAGUS WITH CREAM DRESSING. 

Tie the stalks in bunches, keeping heads one way, 
and cut the stalks of equal length; put them in well 
salted water, and cook until tender. Have ready thin 
slices of toast, and arrange the asparagus, when well 
drained, neatly upon it, and pour over it white sauce, 
made with one tablespoonful of melted butter and 
thickened with flour, in which is stirred one egg, two 
teacups of cream, with pepper and salt and all cooked 
until perfectly smooth. Elizabeth walace. 

LADY CABBAGE. 

Chop some cabbage very fine; cook in boiling water, 
one-half hour; drain, season highly with salt and pep- 
per, a half cup milk, and butter, size of an egg. 

CARROTS IN CREAM. 

Pare and slice carrots, stew in salt water for two 
hours, then pour cream, salt and pepper to taste. 



32 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Two cups cold, maslied potatoes; bits of some kind 
cold meat, hashed; two tablespoons melted butter; 
two well beaten eggs; one cup milk. Pour into deep 
dish and bake in quick oven. If rightly done, will 
merit its name. 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Cut in pieces; scrape well; bake from one to one 
and a half hours, according to the thickness of the 
squash. To be eaten with salt and butter, as sweet 
potatoes. 



33 
CALL AT 



2/ (@ %S^ ^ 2/ 



FOf? 

BREAD, PIES 
AND CAKES. 



Do you 



Darn? 



i 



Well, if you do, quit, 
and buy your children 
apairof MUSSER HOSE, 
wool or cotton, and 
you won't have to. 



PARSONS & LANGLAND 



34 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

ENTREES. 

. CROQUETTES. 

For every pint of meat, chopped fine (any kind of 
meat will do, but veal or chicken is the best), make a 
dressing of half a pint of milk, one large tablespoon of 
butter, two large tablespoons of flour, one tablespoon 
chopped parsley, one teaspoon onion juice, one tea- 
spoon salt, half teaspoon grated nutmeg, cayenne pep- 
per to taste. Put on to boil, and when boiling, add 
all the other ingredients previously mixed smooth in a 
little cold milk. Stir until thick, take from the stove 
and mix with the meat; let stand until cold. Form 
into croquettes; dip first in beaten egg, then in 
crumbs, and fry in boiling fat, the same as you would 
doughnuts. ^jj^g ^ j^j burchard. 

RAMAKINS. 

One-quarter pound grated cheese, one-quarter pound 
bread crumbs, salt and mustard to season, and ihe 
yolks of three eggs. Mix all these well together; make 
into small balls; dip in yolk of egg and fry until a 
pretty brown. ^^^^ ^ ^ whlspord. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

One cup of grated corn (if you use canned corn, chop 
fine); half cup cracker crumbs: one egg, yolk and 
white beaten separately; add the white last; salt and 
pepper to taste. Fry in hot lard. 

MRS. S. M. HARRINGTON. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 35 



A HUNGARIAN DISH. 

Boil six eggs hard. When cold, peel and cut them in 
slices; then take five or six large potatoes; cut them 
in thin slices, as for frying, and place them in layers 
in buttered dish, commencing with potatoes, then egg, 
so on until the dish is full, leaving potatoes on top; add 
pepper, salt and butter to each layer; also, a very little 
sour cream, which will moisten the w'hole and give it a 
delicious flavor. Bake one and a half hours in mod- 
erate oven, and be careful not to burn on top. 

MRS. H. A. WEiLSiFORD. 

MACARONI WITH CHEESE. 

One-quarter pound, or twelve sticks macaroni, brok- 
en into one-inch lengths, and cooked in three pints 
boiling water; drain. Make a sauce of one table- 
spoonful each of butter and flour and one and one-half 
cups hot milk salt. Put a layer of grated cheese in 
bottom of bake dish, then a layer of macaroni and one 
of sauce, then cheese, macaroni and sauce, and cover 
the top with fine bread crumbs, with bits of butter 
dotted over, and a little gi'ated cheese. Bake until 
brown. bdith arvesen. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

One cup grated cheese; two tablespoons melted but- 
ter; three tablespoons cold Avater; salt to taste; add 
flour wuth a fork. Roll thin, like pie crust; cut one- 
half inch wide, and bake. ^j^s ^ q kayser. 



36 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

DEVILED CHEESE. 

Mix together three tablespoons grated cheese, one- 
half teaspoon salt, one,-quarter teaspoon dry mustard, 
one teaspoon cream, dash of cayenne. Blend this with 
one heaping tablespoon butter. Spread over large, 
square crackers, and put in a hot oven until they begin 
to (-olor. mns. j. l. watson. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Take one hard boiled egg; one-quarter pound cheese, 
grated; one-half teaspoon each salt, pepper and mus- 
tard; one tablespoon melted butter; one tablespoon 
vinegar or water. Take yolk, put in bowl and crumble 
it; put into it the butter, mix smooth with spoon; then 
add salt, pepper, etc., mixing each well. Then put in 
vinegar, which will make proper thickness. Some 
would not like it so highly seasoned. 

MIXED SANDWICHES. 

Chop fine ham, tongues and chicken. For one pint 
meat use one-half cup melted butter, one tablespoon 
mustard, yolk of one egg, little pepper. Spread on 
thin bread and butter. 

SAEDINE AND HAM SANDWICHES. 

Mince sardines fine, and mix with half the quantity 
cold boiled ham, minced fine. Spread over thinly sliced 
and slightly buttered bread. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 37 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

To one cup of grated cheese add salt and pepper to 
taste, two tablespoons of melted butter, three table- 
spoons of cold water, and flour, to make a soft dough. 
Mix with a fork, until it no longer sticks to the sides of 
the bowl; lay upon a molding board dusted with flour; 
sift flour over the dough; roll gently, as thin pie crust; 
cut it in strips one-quarter of an inch wide, and bake. 

MRS. EWING. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Six ears of sweet corn (not too old). With a sharp 
knife split each row of the corn in the center of kernel 
lengthwise; scrape out all the pulp. Add one egg, 
well beaten; little salt; one tablespoon sweet milk; 
flour enough to make a pretty stiff batter; drop in hot 
lard, and fry a delicate brown. If corn is quite young, 
omit the milk, and use as little flour as possible. 



SALTED ALMONDS. 

Shell almonds; blanch by throwing in boiling water 
for few minutes; slip off skins, and spread them out 
to dry thoroughly. Put good piece butter in dripping 
pan; melt; stir almonds into it. Set in oven, stirring 
often until they begin to brown slightly. Take out and 
shake in colander to rid of grease. Sprinkle with fine, 
drv salt. 



38 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES, 

Miuce any cold chicken, boiled or roasted; jjut into 
sauce pan, with gravy, water, or cream, to soften it; 
add good piece butter; work very smooth while heat- 
ing — most paste; put on plates to cool. Spread on 
buttered bread. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

One can of corn; three eggs; two teaspoons of baking 
powder; flour enough, so it will drop from a spoon; 
salt. Fry in hot lard. 

MRS. F. WATSON. 



39 



H. P. FULTON, 

Architect Builder 

Plans, Contracts, Estimates and 
Building Material of All Kinds. 

MARSHALL, MINN. 



L. M. Lange, 

ATTORNEY 
AT LAW, 

MARSHALL, MINN. 



MftiHEws k nmmi 



SUCCESSORS TO 



M. E. MATHEWS. 



Lawyers 



MARSHALL, MINNESOTA. 



W. C. KAYSER, 

Jeweler ^ Stationer 

DEALER IN 

Watches, Clocks, Jewelry, Musical Goods, 
Wall Paper and Fine Stationery. 

MARSHALL, MINN. 



40 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

SALADS. 

SALAD DRESSING, WITH BUTTER. 

Four tablespoons of butter; one of salt; one of sugar; 
one heaping teaspoon of mustard; a speck of red pep- 
per; one cup milk; one-half cup vinegar; one table- 
spoon lemon juice; three eggs, beaten stiff. Let but- 
ter get hot in sauce pan; add flour, and stir until 
smooth, being careful not to brown. Add the milk, 
and boil up. Place the sauce pan in another of hot 
water; beat eggs, salt, pepper, sugar and mustard to- 
gether; then vinegar; stir this into the boiling mix- 
ture and stir until it thickens. This will keep, when 

cold, about two weeks. ^ ^ morse, CHef Hotel Atlantic. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of four eggs ; two-thirds cup sugar; one table- 
spoon flour; one teaspoon mustard; one teaspoon salt; 
one cup vinegar; one tablespoon butter. Beat all but 
vinegar and butter until light; add them, and cook 
over water until smooth and thick. When ready to 
use, thin with sweet cream. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Work yolks of two raw eggs smooth ; add pinch salt 
and little cayenne pepper, one-half teaspoon dry mus- 
tard, one teaspoon olive oil or melted butter. Mix 
these ingredients thoroughly; add juice of half lemon. 
Keep adding melted butter until you have added one- 
half pint; add a few^ drops of lemon juice to every fifth 
teaspoon of butter until you have used two lemons. 

MRS. L. M. LANGE. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 41 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Two cucumbers, chopped; one onion, chopped; one- 
half dozen cold boiled potatoes, chopped; t^o bunches 
parsley, chopped; two tablespoons butter to one of 
vinegar, pepper and salt. Beat vinegar and butter 
,with egg beater. j^j^g jqhn l. watson. 

APPLE SALAD. 

Cut celery and apples, and serve with dressing tied 
up in lettuce leaves. j^j^g q -^ jenkins, Chicago. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

Slice cabbage fine. 

Dressing. — One egg, well beaten, stirred into one- 
half cup vinegar; a small lump butter; one teaspoon 
sugar; a trifle of mustard and salt. Place over fire, 
and stir until thick. If too strong, add little water. 
Cool, then pour over cabbage. j^j^g piske. 

TOMATO ASPIC. 

One-half bos gelatine. Cover with one-half cup cold 
water. Take one pint cooked tomatoes (strained), one 
slice onion, one bay leaf, one-quarter teaspoon celery 
seed, one tablespoon lemon Juice, little dash red pep- 
per, one teaspoon salt. Bring to boiling point, and 
add gelatine. Strain at once, and put in molds. Stand 
away to harden. Serve on lettuce leaves with mayon- 
naise dressing. mRS. C. H. W^LLTAMS. Chatfleld, Minn 



42 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

One pint gelatine dissolved in one pint cold water; 
add one pint boiling water; add four bananas, two 
pounds green grapes, one can pineapple (cut in small 
pieces) with juice, one-half pound candied cherries, 
four oranges (quartered), juice of two lemons, vanilla 
to flavor. A little sherry or claret is a great improve- 
ment; if used, put in less water. Place in mold, and 
let harden. May be served with or without whipped 
cream. wrb. harry van tassel. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Take one can tomatoes. Put over the fire in stew 
pan. Add one slice onion, two whole cloves, a little 
salt and pepper. Boil twenty minutes, remove from 
fire, and strain through sieve. In another pan melt 
butter size of walnut. As it melts, sprinkle in one 
tablespoon of flour. Stir until it browns and froths a 
little. Into this stir the tomato pulp. Excellent for 
roast beef, and especially to pour over plain boiled 
macaroni or rice. 

MRS. L,. A. WOODRUFF, Chatfleld, Minn. 

PREPARED MUSTARD. 

Three teaspoons ground mustard ; one teaspoon flour 
(two if the mustard is strong) ; one-half teaspoon sugar. 
Pour boiling water on these, and mix into thin, smooth 
paste. When cold, add vinegar to make ready for use 
Serve with salt. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 43 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Two yolks of eggs, well beaten; one-lialf teaspoon 
mustard; one-half teaspoon salt; one and a half tea- 
spoons vinegar; small one-half cup melted butter. 
Have all as cold as possible. Beat egg and mustard 
one minute. Begin adding butter, drop at a time, beat- 
ing continually. When like jelly add little lemon juice, 
and begin adding few drops vinegar, beating well. If 
theru is tendency to curdle, put on ice. When vinegar 
is used, add salt and pepper, whip five minutes and 
pour in glass dish and keep cool. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Beat yolks of eight eggs; add one cup sugar, one 
tablespoon each salt, mustard and black pepper; one- 
half cup cream. Mix thoroughly. Bring to a boil one 
and a half pints vinegar; add one cup butter; let 
come to boil. Pour out mixture; stir well; bottle. 

MRS. C. F. CASE. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of two eggs; one teaspoon salt; two teaspoons 
sugar; one tablespoon butter; four tablespoons vine- 
gar. Steam until thick, and when cold add one cup 
sweet cream. ^P^g j -g gibbons. 

NUT SALAD. 

Three bunches celery; one pound English walnuts; 
one pound green grapes. Add chicken or any chopped 
meat, if desired. wr^. h. m. langl,and. 



44 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

SALAD. 

Two bananas, sliced fine; equal amount of lettuce 
leaves, chopped not too fine; mix one cup sweet cream 
with two tablespoons of mayonnaise dressing. Mix 
all together lightly, and serve on lettuce leaves. 

MRS. C. F. CASE. 

TO PREPARE HORSERADISH FOR WINTER 

USE. 

One coffee cup grated horseradish; two tablespoons 
white sugar; one-half teaspoon salt; one and a half 
pints vinegar. Bottle and seal. 

CREAM SAUCE FOR FISH. 

Heat one tablespoon butter in skillet, add one tea- 
spoon flour, and stir smooth. Add one cup cold milk; 
let boil up once; season. Pour over boiled fish, salt 
or fresh. 

SALAD DRESSING TO BE MADE AFTER SNOW 
PUDDING. 

One-half cup vinegar; boil, and turn on the beaten 
five yolks; two teaspoons of salt, and one of pepper. 
Add mustard to taste, when used. Use about two 
tablespoons of this to one cup sweet cream, with little 
sugar added, for a pint of chopped cabbage. 

MISS MINA E. ROSS. St. Charles. Minn. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 45 

EGGS. 

OMELET. 

Six eggs, whites and yolks beaten separate!.}' ; one- 
half pint milk; six teaspoons cornstarch; one teaspoon 
baking powder; a little salt; add whites beaten to stiff 
froth. Cook in spider, with little butter in it. It is 
easily turned, if cut in four pieces. ^^^^ ^ m. lange. 

OMEUET. 

Take one Ggg for each person, beat two minutes; add 
salt and one tablespoon milk for each egg; beat one 
minute and turn into hot, well buttered frying pan. 
Cover it and cook slowly; raise edges and let soft part 
run under; cook until set; turn one-half over. Put 
onto hot platter, and serve at once. home guide 

NICE WAY TO BOIL EGGS. 

Put them on in cold water and let them just come 
to boil. If wished, soft-boiled are considered more 
digestible. 

EGG BALLS. 

Chop seven hard-boiled eggs; one dessert spoon 
chopped parsley; one heaping teaspoon grated cheese; 
two heaping teaspoons bread crumbs; one dessert 
spoon celery, and pepper and salt to taste. Mix to- 
gether with three tablespoons mayonnaise dressing; 
roll in balls; dip in beaten eggs and bread crumbs, and 
fry in hot lard. Serve with cream sauce. 

MRS. STANDRING. 



46 



There is but one 




I BEST I 



Flour. 



It's everybody's favorite. 



We all use it. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 47 

BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC. 

ENGLISH SEED BREAD. 

Take enough soft bread sponge to make a loaf of 
bread; add to it one-half cup sugar, not quite one-half 
cup butter and about one teaspoon caraway seed. Mix 
into a loaf and knead well. Let raise and bake. 

MRS. J. P. WATSON. 

BREAD OF WHOLE WHEAT FLOUR. 

Take enough white soft sponge for number of loaves 
wanted, add little butter and sugar and enough whole 
wheat flour to enable to knead. Allow to rise in tine, 
then bake. mrs. j. p. watson. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

One cup graham; one cup corn meal ; one cup flour; 
two-thirds cup molasses; one cup sour milk; two cups 
sweet milk; one teaspoon soda; salt. Steam three 
hours in baking powder cans. ^^^ ^^j^ hicks. 

SUPERIOR MUFFINS. 

One cup sweet milk; three teaspoons sugar; one 
beaten egg, and butter one-half size of egg; two cups 
flour; one tablespoon baking powder. Beat quickly 
to a batter and bake in a quick oven, having the tins 
warmed in advance. 

MRS. C. B. MEADER, Canton, Minn. 



48 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 



BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups sour milk; two cups flour; two cups corn 
meal; one-half cup molasses; two small teaspoons 
soda. Steam two and a half hours. 

MISS J. BOURSON. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Two eggs; two tablespoons butter; pinch salt; two 
tablespoons sugar; one pint buttermilk, sweetened 
with soda; one cup white flour; two cups graham flour; 
a little baking powder. Make batter quite stiff. 

MRS. F. M. CUTTING, Delavan. Wis. 

BUTTERMILK TEA CAKES. 

One cup buttermilk, beaten to froth; one teaspoon 
(heaping) baking powder; one-half teaspoon soda; flour 
to make batter about the consistency of muffin batter. 
Bake quickly in gem pans and serve hot. 

MRS. WINNIE DALE. Canton, Minn. 

WAFFLES. 

Two eggs, well beaten; pinch salt; one cup sour 
cream; two cups sweet milk; one teaspoon soda; one 
teaspoon baking powder; flour to make a stiff batter. 

MRS. JOHN L. WATSON. 

MUFFINS. 

One glass milk; one glass whole wheat flour; one- 
half glass white flour; two tablespoons sugar; two 
tablespoons baking powder; salt. ^^^^ Humphrey. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 49 

CORN BREAD. 

Two cugs Indian; one cup wheat; 
One cup sour milk; one cup sweet; 
One good egg that well you beat; 
One-half cup molasses, too; 
One-half cup sugar add thereto, 
With one spoon butter, new, 
Salt and soda each a teaspoon. 
Mix up quick and bake it soon; 
Then you'll have corn bread complete, 
Best of all corn bread you meet. 

MRS. H. R. WELSFORD. 

SCOTCH SHORTBREAD. 

Thoroughly dry one-half pound flour, into which mix 
six ounces of sifted sugar, a tiny pinch of salt, four 
ounces fresh butter and a teacup of cream. Mix well, 
and fill pretty little molds with the paste, w^hich should 
be quite two inches thick. A pinch of cinnamon and 
a tablespoon of ground almonds are a great improve- 
ment. Bake for half an hour in quick oven. 

MRS. H. R. WELSFORD. 

QUICK GRAHAM BREAD. 

One and a half pints sour milk; one-half cup mo- 
lasses or brown sugar; two teaspoons soda dissolved 
in hot w^ater, and as much graham flour as can be 
stirred in with a spoon. Pour into w^ell greased pans, 
put in oven as soon as mixed, and bake two hours, or 
until done. selected. 



50 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

WASHINGTON YEAST BREAD. 

The yeast is easy to make, and, though liquid, keeps 
well, and is especially adapted to making bread in a 
cold climate or where no fire is kept over night. 

YEAST. 

Peel and boil two quarts of potatoes, mash fine and 
run through colander. Put in a two-gallon crock, and, 
while hot, add one small cup of flour, one even cup 
salt. Stir well, and add enough boiling water to fill 
the crock. When cool enough add two yeast cakes. 
If kept warm this will do to make bread next day, but 
is better if allowed to stand two days. Put away in 
cool place. 

BREAD. 

In morning take one quart of yeast, one quart water 
(or, if you want large baking, one and a half quarts), 
with flour enough to make stiff loaf. Add no salt, 
there being enough in the yeast. Set bread in warm 
place to raise. W^hen light, mold in loaves. This 
makes six good sized loaves. 

MRS. E. L. HEALY, Morris, Minn. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Into one pound flour rub two ounces butter and 
whites of three eggs, well beaten. Add two table- 
spoons good yeast, little salt, and milk enough to make 
a stiff dough. Cover, and set in warm place till light, 
which will be an hour or more, according to strength 
of yeast. Cut into rolls, dip into melted butter to keep 
from sticking together, and bake in quick oven. 

SELECTED. 



I 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 51 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

The Bostonians, you know, are most cultured, 'tis said, 
And it's greatly on account of their Boston brown 

bread. 
The secret of making, I'm privileged to tell, 
So, one cup of corn meal, dear sisters, scald well ; 
Then add to the same one cup of graham. 

And a cup and a half of white flour; 
Of molasses a cup, and an egg beaten up. 

And one cup of milk that is sour; 
One teaspoon and a half of soda to raise it. 
And one of salt, or none would praise it ; 
Stir it up well, and four hours steam it; 
And rest assured all will deem it 
A greater treat than finest cake 
That one could eat or cook could bake. 

RAISED BISCUIT. 

Two quarts flour; one quart milk or water; one cup 
lard; one cup yeast; one tablespoon sugar; one table- 
spoon salt. Put half milk on lard; let scald; pour on 
flour; mix all together; let rise; cut in biscuit; let 
rise and bake. ^^j^g perme-lba parkbr. 

ROLLS (GOOD). 

One cup bread sponge; two cups scalded milk; six 
tablespoons melted butter; one-half cup sugar; pinch 
salt. Mix all into batter; let rise. Then make into 
loaf; let rise again. Make into rolls, let rise and bake. 

MRS. BUMPORD. 



52 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 



TEA EOLLS. 

For one dozen take one egg, two tablespoons lard, 
one tablespoon granulated sugar. This is to be added 
to the sponge, in the morning, that has been set over 
night Mix up soft. Let it rise, then mix it down. 
When ready to put into pans, put it on bread board 
and roll it out; then cut with biscuit cutter, grease 
the top with lard, fold over and put into pans. Let 
rise again. When light, bake in a hot oven. 

MRS. BAXTER WRIGHT. 

POP-OVERS. 

Three eggs well beaten; salt; one tablespoon melted 
butter; two and a half tablespoons sweet milk; one 
and a half cups flour. Beat very light. Bake about 
twenty minutes in quick oven. 

MRS. WARD, Redwood Falls, Minn. 

BREAKFAST TOAST. 

To one egg well beaten add one cup sweet milk, two 
tablespoons of sugar. Slice bread and dip into the 
mixture till soaked through; then fry in hot butter till 
brown. Swerve hot on hot platter. 

MRS. A. DURENBERGER. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

Two cups corn meal; one cup flour; one-half cup 
molasses; one teaspoon soda; little butter; salt; about 
one and a half cups sour milk. Beat up well and put 
in dripping pan. 

MRS. P. J. CONSTANT, Brooklyn, N. T. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 53 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Take the sponge of white bread, when light enough, 
for one or two loaves, as you like ; add little sugar and 
shortening, and enough graham flour to make a stiff 
loaf. Place in pan, let rise, and bake in moderate oven. 

SELECTED. 

DROP BISCT^'lT. 

One quart flour; three teaspoons baking powder; 
one small spoon salt; butter size of an egg, rubbed 
thoroughly in flour; one pint milk. Drop from spoon 
in buttered tins. Bake in (juick oven. 

SELECTED. 



54 



A. L. M. Ackerman, 
TEACHER 

PIANO AND 

ORGAN 
PLAYING. 

o^ (Masoo Systen) of 

°l Tecboique). 

MARSHALL, MINN. 



Baths Every First Class 

Day Except Laundry Work 

Sunday. Guaranteed. 

MARSHALL 

Steam Laundry 
and Bath Rooms. 

Laundry work from out of town solicited 
and given prompt attention. 

Our baths are furnished with pure, soft 
Artesian water. 

CARL LINDSTROM, Propr. 

MARSHALL, - MINl^. 

F. M. HEALY 

DEALER IN 

* Books, Stationery, 
Wall Paper, Win. 



dow Shades, Con- 
fectionery, Musical 
Goods, Etc. 



Headquarters for all 
Kinds of Periodicals. 



MARSHALL, 



MINN. 



Loans at 
6 Per Cent 

on 
Farms at 

Seward & Burchard's. 



Go to. 



HOAGLAND'S 

SHOE STORE 



For 



Warm Shoes in Cold 
Weather and Cool 
Shoes in Warm 
Weather. 

All kinds of Footwear in their Season. 



J. W. WILLIAMS, 

Dealer in 

Hardware 

and 

Groceries. 

Improved Farms For Sale. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 55 

PUDDINGS. 

EVE'S PUDDING. 

If you want a good pudding, mind what you are taught; 

Take eggs, six in number, when bought for a groat; 

The fruit with which Eve her husband did cozen. 

Well pared, and well chopped, at least half a dozen; 

Six ounces of bread, let Moll eat the crust. 

And crumble the rest as fine as the dust; 

Six ounces of currants from the stem you must sort, 

Lest you break out your teeth and spoil all the sp )rt; 

Six ounces of sugar won't make it too sweet; 

Some salt and some nutmeg will make it complete; 

Three hours let it boil without any flutter, 

But Adam won't like it without wine and butter. 

POOR MAN'S PUDDING. 

One cup suet; one cup molasses; three cups flour; 
three-quarters cup raisins, seeded; one egg; one-quar- 
ter cup currants; one teaspoon soda, dissolved in cup 
sweet milk; one-half teaspoon cinnamon; one-quarter 
teaspoon each cloves and allspice. Steam three hours 
and serve with liquid sauce. 

MRS. B. C. MORSE, Hotel Atlantic. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound raisins, seeded; one pound currants; one 
pound suet; one pound sugar; one pound flour; one- 
quarter pound citron; one teaspoon spices of all kinds; 
one cup milk, and six eggs. Steam six hours. 



56 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Dissolve one-half package of Plymoutli Rock phos- 
pliated gelatine in one-half cup cold water one hour; 
add one pint boiling water; stir until clear; add juice 
of one lemon and two cups sugar. Let cool until 
slightly thick, not solid. Beat whites of five eggs to 
stiff froth, turn gelatine on them very slowly, beating 
all the time, and continue to beat until it does not 
separate. Set on ice, and serve with whipped cream. 
Peaches may be halved and pressed into the mixture 
when almost solid, or it may be divided and another 
kind of fruit, as oranges, raspberries, pineapple, etc., 
be mixed with a part of it. A large dish is necessary 

^^^ ^^' MISS MINA ROSS, St. Charles, Minn. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Five oranges, peeled and sliced; add to these one 
cup of sugar, and let stand. Take one pint sweet 
milk, one tablespoon corn starch, and yolks of four 
eggs, well beaten. Boil together four minutes. Pour 
over oranges. Beat whites of eggs, add four table- 
spoons sugar, pour over pudding and put in oven to 

MRS. FRANK CUTTING. Delavan, Wis. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 



brown. 



Three eggs well beaten; two and one-half table- 
spoons sugar; two tablespoons butter; three-fourths 
cup milk; one cup raisins, chopped; tablespoon baking 
powder; flour to make stiff as cake batter. Steam 
thirty-five minutes. Use cream and sugar sauce. 

SELECTED. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 57 

BEOWN CHARLOTTE PUDDING. 

Butter pudding mold thickly and sprinkle butter 
with brown sugar. Cut thin slices of bread, butter 
them generously, then cut off crusts and line mold 
with them. Now fill mold with good baking apples, 
pared and sliced, with grated lemon peel and pieces of 
candied citron mixed throughout them. Sweeten with 
brown sugar. When mold is full, cover with thin 
slices of bread, dipped in melted butter. Bake for 
three hours in a moderate oven. When turned out 
it should be brown and crisp on the outside. Eat with 

cictiui. MRS. HERBERT WELSFORD. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

One cup bread crumbs, soaked in a little hot water; 
three eggs, beaten light ; two tablespoons sugar; but- 
ter size of walnut; one pint of milk; a few raisins 
and a teaspoon vanilla. Do not stir bread crumbs 
too much. Bake slowly . When done, spread first with 
jelly, cover with meringue made with the beaten 
whites of two eggs and two tablespoons sugar, and 
flavor with vanilla. Return to oven to brown slightly. 

MRS. JOHN L. TVATSON. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One heaping cup bread crumbs; two cups flour; 
one cup suet; one cup raisins; one cup molasses; one 
cup sweet milk; one tablespoon soda; one teaspoon 
salt; one teaspoon cinnamon; one cup finely chopped 
apple; little pinch ginger. Steam two hours. 

MRS. ELLA WILCOX. 



58 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

MOLASSES PUDDING (FINE). 

One-half cup thick sour milk; two cups flour; one- 
half cup molasses; one-quarter cup butter; one tea- 
spoon soda; one-quarter teaspoon cloves; one and a 
half cups raisins. Steam one hour, and serve with 
following 

SAUCE. 

One egg; one cup sugar, beaten well; one table- 
spoon butter. Beat and cook in dish of hot water. If 
too thick, add hot water. 

MRS. FRANK CUTTING, Delavan, Wis. 

OEANGE FLOAT. 

Peel and slice four oranges; sprinkle over these one 
cup sugar and let them stand. Take one quart milk 
and one-half cup sugar; when boiling add two table- 
spoons cornstarch, which has been made smooth in 
the yolks of three eggs; cook till thick. Before re- 
moving from fire, flavor with vanilla. Let stand till 
cool, but not cold. Pour over sliced oranges. Whip 
whites of eggs to stiff froth with one-quarter cup of 
sugar. Wet a plate in cold water and place frosting 
on it; put in oven till it turns a light cream, then place 

on float. MR^. CYRUS p. SHEPARD. 

APPLE FKITTERS. 

One cup sugar; one cup milk; one teaspoon baking 
powder; one tablespoon butter; four eggs; flour 
enough to make a thin batter. Cut apples in small 
pieces, dip in butter, and fry in lard. 

MRS. E. M. LEWIS, Dawson. Minn. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 59 

DUTCH HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. 

Beat two eggs (not separately); add one tablespoon 
butter and one-half pint milk; sift one and one-half 
<3ups flour with one teaspoon baking powder; add it 
to eggs and milk. Pour into shallow greased tins, 
cover top thickly with huckleberries, sprinkle over 
one half cup of sugar, and bake twenty minutes in hot 
oven. 

ALMOND CREAM— BAY ARL\N. 

One and one-half pints cream; one pint blanched 
almonds; one-half box gelatine; three eggs; one cup 
isugar; one-half cup milk. Soak gelatine in milk two 
hours. Whip half the cream stiff. Put almonds and 
whipped cream on to cook with eggs and sugar. When 
the mixture begins to thicken, stir gelatine in and take 
from fire. Stir in whipped cream, flavor with vanilla, 
and place in mold. Serve when cold. 

MRS. E. J. WAKEMAN. 

PEACH DESSERT. 

Pour one pint boiling water over one-half box gela- 
tine; add two cups sugar, juice of two lemons; strain. 
When nearly cold, add the whites of two eggs, well 
beaten, and stir until it begins to jelly. Pare peaches, 
remove pits, and replace with chocolate creams; place 
peaches in glasses and pour over gelatine. Set on ice, 
and serve cold with whipped cream. 

MRS. C. H. JOHNSON. 



60 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cup suet, chopped fine; one cup sour milk; one 
cup molasses; one cup raisins, seeded and chopped; 
three and one-half cups flour; one teaspoon soda; one 
teaspoon cloves; little salt. Steam three hours. 

VINEGAR SAUCE. 

One cup boiling water; one cup sugar; one table- 
spoon flour; one tablespoon vinegar.; a little nutmeg 
and salt. Mix flour with cold water, and stir into the 
boiling sugar and water. Then add vinegar and nut- 
meg. Cook twenty minutes. 

MRS. J. W. BLAKE, Dalton, Ga. 

RICE PUDDING. 

One quart sweet milk; one rounding tablespoon rice; 
one teaspoon lemon and vanilla extracts mixed; one- 
half cup raisins. Sweeten to taste. Place in oven 
and stir often. Bake about two hours, or until rice 
is well done and pudding is consistency of. custard. 
Serve warm or cold. 

MRS. C. B. MBADER, Canton, Minn. 

PRUNE WHIP. 

Four tablespoons sugar; three-quarters pound 
prunes ; whites of four eggs, beaten stiff. Stew prunes 
in as little water as possible until tender. Remove 
pits and rub pulp through sieve. Crack pits and wash 
the meats; mix with pulp; add this to the beaten 
whites of eggs and sugar. Bake twenty minutes, and 
serve with whipped cream. ^^^ ^ ^ whitney. 



Marshall Ladies^ Choicest and Best. 61 

FRIED CREAM. 

One pint milk; five tablespoons sugar; butter size 
of hickory nut; yolks of three eggs; two tablespoons 
of cornstarch, and one of flour; one inch of stick cin- 
namon and a little vanilla. Put the cinnamon in the 
milk, and just before it boils stir in the sugar. Dis- 
solve the cornstarch and flour in a little milk. Add 
this to boiling milk. Boil about two minutes; take 
from fire and stir in the beaten yolks; return to fire 
until it sets; remove from fire and take out the cin- 
namon; stir in the butter and vanilla. Pour on large 
platter and let cool. Later cut in pieces and shape 
desired; roll in cracker crumbs and beaten white of 
egg, then in cracker crumbs and let stand for a quar- 
ter or half an hour. Then fry in a wire basket in boil- 
ing lard. j^jj^g ^ ^ WOODRUFF. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

One dozen French prunes, cooked soft ; take out pits 
and beat up fine; the whites of seven eggs beaten until 
light; one-half cup sugar sifted into eggs. Then add 
prunes, flavor with vanilla. Bake one hour in very 
moderate oven. To be eaten with whipped cream. 

MRS. C. B. TYLER. 

PEACH DUMPLINGS. 

Make a crust as for apple dumplings; cut into 
square; roll in each a whole peach, adding a little 
butter and sugar to each dumpling. Put in pan and 
add a little water just before putting in oven. Eat 
with cream and sugar. ,,_„ -r^-,^^. 

^ MRS. JOHN L. WATSON. 



62 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

GRAHAM PUDDING. 

Two cups graham flour; one cup molasses; one cup 
milk; one cup chopped raisins; one egg; one teaspoon 
soda, dissolved in little hot water; one-half teaspoon 
each ground cloves and cinnamon; a little nutmeg and 
salt. Steam three hours. Serve with following 

SAUCE. 

One cup sugar; one-half cup butter; two cups sweet 
milk, scalded cream, butter and sugar; add milk; 
just before serving, add well-beaten white of egg. 

MRS. FRBDENBUR'G. 

BEST PUDDING. 

One egg, beaten; three tablespoons sour cream that 
has been beaten; tablespoon molasses; scant half tea- 
spoon soda; saltspoon salt; one-half cup chopped rai- 
sins or figs, and flour to make a very stiff batter. Or 
use any kind of fruit and omit molasses. Pour into 
buttered mold, set into cold water, and steam one hour. 
Serve warm, with cream and sugar, or a sauce made of 
one-half cup sugar, one tablespoon butter, one tea- 
spoon flour, and one pint boiling water. Cook till 
smooth, and flavor. ^^^^ g^,g^ ^^^^^ 

SIMPLE DESSERT. 

Dissolve one-half box Knox's gelatine in about one 
quart water; put on stove to heat; add one-half cup 
sugar and two tablespoons brandy fvanilla may be 
used). Pour over sliced peaches and serve cold with 
whipped cream spread on top. 

MRS. EDITH ARVESEN. 



Marshall Ladies^ Choicest and Best. 63^ 

• COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One cup sugar; two cups flour; nearly one cup 
cold water; one eg; butter size an egg; two teaspoons 
baking powder; salt. Bake in hot oven. 

SAUCE. 

One cup sugar; one-third cup butter; one table- 
spoon cornstarch. Mix and add two cups boiling water. 
After taking from stove, add juice of lemon. 

CREAM PUFF PUDDING. 

One cup boiling water, with half a cup butter melted 
into it. When this boils, stir in a cup of flour. Keep 
stirring until smooth and velvety; cool; add three 
eggs, well beaten, ?ind one-quarter teaspoon soda, dry. 
Heat a pudding dish hot. Butter thoroughly and pour 
in the batter. Bake in a quick oven. Make an in- 
cision in the edge and pour in a custard made of one 
cup of milk, one-quarter cup flour, one-half cup sugar 
and two eggs; flavor with vanilla. 

MRS. E. L. HILIiYER, Minneapolis. 

RICE PUDDING. 

One cup rice; two quarts milk; five eggs; eight 
tablespoons sugar. Beat yolks of eggs and sugar to- 
gether. After rice is cooked, add the milk, and when 
that boils, stir in the yolks and sugar. Beat the 
w^hites of eggs and five tablespoons sugar to a froth. 
Put this on as frosting and set in oven to brown. A 
cup of raisins may be added to pudding. 

MRS. MATTIE A. HUGHES. 



64 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

STEAMED PUDDING. • 

One-half cup butter, scant; two eggs, whites beaten 
separately and added last; two tablespoons sugar. 
Beat well together, then add one cup sweet milk and 
two cups flour, with two teaspoons baking powder 
sifted in; little salt. Slice peaches in bottom of cups; 
pour on batter. It will fill seven cups. Any fruit 
may be used. Steam one-half hour, 

MRS. FRANK CUTTING, Delavan, Wis. 

TAPIOCA WHIP. 

One quart milk; one-half cup sugar (small); three 
tablespoons tapioca (large); three eggs; one table- 
spoon vanilla, or half lemon; three tablespoons pow- 
dered sugar. Soak tapioca in c6ld water three or 
four hours; then put tapioca and milk in double boiler 
and cook until tender; then add beaten yolks of eggs 
and sugar, cook slowly four or five minutes, flavor, stir 
in whites of eggs after they have been beaten with 
pulverized sugar, put in oven and brown. 

MRS. NELLIE WARREN, Minneapolis. 

PUDDING SAUCE, 

One-half cup butter and one cup sugar, creamed as 
for cake; one pint water. Thicken with one table- 
spoon cornstarch, which has first been mixed with a 
little cold water. Let this mixture boil until thick, 
and remove from fire. When perfectly cold, mix with 
butter and sugar. This is especially nice for sweet 

pudding, MRS. GEORGE LITTLE. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 65 

JAM PUDDING. 

One-lialf cup sugar; one cup flour; one-half cup jam; 
one egg; two tablespoons butter; three tablespoons 
sour milk; one small teaspoon soda; one-half teaspoon 
spices. Make like a cake, and bake. 

JELLY FOR THE CAKE OR PUDDING. 

One-half cup sugar; one-half cup water; yolks of 
two eggs; a large tablespoon of flour; a little butter; 
juice and rind of one lemon. Cook, and when pudding 
is done spread this on top, and beat the whites of two 
eggs to a stiff froth, with one spoonful of sugar spread 
on top, and put in oven to brown. Eat with sauce. 

MRS. STANDRING. 

FRUIT FLOAT. 

The whites of three eggs, beaten to stiff froth; six 
tablespoons powdered sugar. Beat five minutes; add 
three tablespoons jelly, and when well incorporated 
set away in cool place. Serve with following 

SAUCE. 

Yolks three eggs; two tablespoons sugar. Heat 
milk in double boiler, add eggs and sugar. Cook till 
like cream. To be eaten cold. ^^ j Goodwin. 

CREAM PUDDING. 

Stir together one pint of sweet cream, one-half cup 
of sugar, the yolks of three eggs, a little nutmeg; then 
add the whites well beaten, stir, and pour into a but- 
tered pieplate and sprinkle bread crumbs to about an 
inch thick; then bake. ,^^^_ ^_ durenberger.' 



66 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 



BLACKBERRY PUDDING. 

One and one-half pints sifted flour; sprinkle a little 
of it over one pint or more of fresh blackberries. Take 
one-half cup sweet milk and dissolve in it an even tea- 
spoon of soda, then nearly fill with molasses. Stir in 
flour until you have a smooth batter, and lastly add 
the berries, stirring lightly, not to break. Steam until 
done. 

SAUCE. 

One cup sugar; one-half cup butter, creamed. Put 
one-half cup water in saucepan, and heat. Thicken 
slightly with flour, and stir in rapidly the butter and 
sugar. Flavor with vanilla or any preferred flavoring. 

MRS. BUCIOIBN, Waseca, Minn. 

BIRDIE'S BANANA SHORTCAKE. 

One pint of flour; one large teaspoon of baking 
powder; one-third cup shortening, made moist with 
milk. Take three bananas and some orange juice; 
grate the yellow rind from orange and mix with sugar. 
Slice the bananas, split the cake, butter, and flll with 
the prepared fruit; add a spoonful of cream or the 
white of an egg, beaten. First cousin to strawberry 
shortcake. birdie champlin. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

One cup pulverized sugar ; butter size of eg,^. Beat 
first yolks,rand mix with butter and sugar; then add 
beaten whites and beat all thoroughly. 

MRS. ANNIE C. WARD. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 67 

CHOCOLATE BAVARIAN CREAM. 

One pint sweet cream, whipped stiff; one cup milk; 
one-half cup sugar; one-half box gelatine; one square 
chocolate grated fine; add two tablespoons sugar and 
one tablespoon of water. Stir over fire until smooth 
and glossy. Have the remaining half cup of milk boil- 
ing; stir chocolate and gelatine in the milk. When 
tool, add whipped cream. Flavor with vanilla. Place 
in mold and serve when cold. ^^^ ^ j ^akeman. 

EGG SAUCE FOR SWEET OR COTTAGE PUD- 
DING. 

Two eggs, beaten separately; to the yolks add a 
scant cup of sugar, and beat very light; to this add 
three tablespoons boiling water (no more); flavor as 
desired. Beat the whites stiff, and add just before 
serving. mrs. c. h. wil-liams. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Mix the yolks of two eggs with one tablespoon sugar; 
add one cup warm sweet milk and two cups flour, 
having sifted one heaping teaspoon of baking powder 
through it; stir in beaten whites of two eggs and sour 
apples, pared and very thinly sliced. Drop from spoon 
into hot lard, and fry light brown. Same sauce as 
for blackberry pudding or any good liquid sauce. 

MRS. BUCKMEN, Waseca, Minn. 

PUDDING SAUCES. 

One cup sugar; one cup water; yolks of three eggs; 
butter size of egg; two tablespoons cornstarch. Boil 
until thick, and add the beaten whites of the eggs. 

MISS ALICE C. STEWART. 



68 



HELP WANTED. 



\)ere is a eo^stai^t apd §rou;i9§ demand 

for competent girls for general 
housework in Marshall. AH such 
can be given excellent places at 
good wages. 

The Editorial Committee of 
this book invites correspondence 
from reliable girls who wish to 
secure work here, and will be 
pleased to confer with Marshall 
ladies who desire to employ 
such help-. 

MRS. WM. ROGERS, 
MRS. F. M. HEALY. 
MRS. C M. BOUTELLE, 
MRS. J. W. WILLIAMS. 

EDITORIAL. COMMITTEE. 
MARSHALL, MINN. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 69 

PIES. 

CREAM PIE. 

One coffee cup cream and milk; one tablespoon flour; 
yolks of two eggs; one-lialf cup sugar. Put this in 
crust, and bake. After taking from oven, spread 
lightly with grape jelly. Add meringue made of whites 
of two eggs and two tablespoons sugar. Return to 
oven and brown. ^^^^ j ^ shutz. 

COCOANITT PIE. 

One pint milk; one cup sugar; three eggs; one cup 
cocoanut. Mix the yolks of the eggs and sugar to- 
gether; stir in the milk and cocoanut; bake with one 
crust. When done, beat whites of eggs to a froth, 
stirring in two tablespoons powdered sugar; pour over 
pie; return to oven and brown lightly. 

MRS. E. L. NBSBITT, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

LEMON PIE. 

One cup sugar; juice of one lemon; one cup hot wa- 
ter; two spoons cornstarch; two eggs. Boil half of 
sugar with water. Mix yolks of eggs, cornstarch and 
the other half cup of sugar. Stir into boiling syrup; 
cook five minutes; add about a tablespoon of buttei*. 
Have shell baked crisp; turn in the jelly; beat whites 
with two dessert spoons of sugar, and pour over. 
Brown lightly. If used the same day made, it is de- 
licious. MISS MINA ROSS. St. Charles, Minn. 



70 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Two tablespoons Baker's (or sweet) chocolate; two 
heaping teaspoons cornstarch; one cup sweet milk; 
one cup sugar; yolks of three eggs, reserving the 
whites for frosting. Cook the milk, chocolate, eggs, 
etc., until you think sufficient; then fill in crust, which 
has been baked pre^-iously: frost and brown. 

MRS. A. p. BAKER. 

LEMON PIE. 

One lemon, grated and squeezed; yolks of four eggs; 
one tablespoon butter; one and a half cups of white 
sugar; two and a half tablespoons of flour in one cup 
of warm water (boil and pour in with other before cool- 
ing). Put in crust, and bake. Use the whites for 

frosting. MRS. F. M. CUTTING, Delavan, Wis. 

PINEAPPLE PIE. 

One cup sugar; one-half cup butter; one cup sweet 
cream; five eggs. Add the beaten yolks of eggs, then 
the pineapple and cream, and lastly the beaten whites, 
whipped lightly. Bake with an under-crust only. 

MRS. WM. THORBURN. 

GETTYSBURG MOCK MINCE PIE. 

One cup chopped raisins; one cup currants; one cup 
thick sour milk; one cup sugar; salt and spice to suit 
taste (allspice preferred): small piece of butter; tv/o 
eggs. 



y 



Matsball Ladies' Choicest and Best. 71 

LEMON PIE. 

Line a deep pie tin with good crust. Yolks of four 
eggs, beaten smooth; add two-thirds cup granulated 
sugar. Beat. One cup sweet cream; tiny pinch of 
salt; rind and juice of one lemon added the last thing. 
Bake. 

MERINGUE. 

Whites of four eggs, beaten stiff; four teaspoons 
granulated sugar. Spread on the pie, return to the 
oven, and brown with a slow fire. 

MRS. JAS. BL.L.S, Minneapolis, Minn. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Five pounds of beef, chopped fine ; four pounds suet ; 
five pounds raisins, seeded; five pounds brown sugar; 
one pound citron; eight oyster crackers; two lemons, 
chopped fine; tw^o pints cider; one quart molasses; 
one quart cherry wine; one quart brandy; one gill rose 
water; one quince, chopped fine; one tablespoon salt; 
eight tablespoons cloves; thirteen tablespoons cinna- 
mon; four teaspoons mace; one nutmeg. Mix mo- 
lasses, crackers, cider, wine, branny and spices. Add 
twice the amount of apples to meat. 

B. C. MORSE, Hotel Atlantic. 

PIE CRUST. 

One cup flour; one salt spoon salt; one-half cup lard. 
Mix with as little ice water as you can to roll out. 

MRS. JAS. ELLS, Minneapolis, Minn. 



72 Marshall Ladies^ Choicest and Best. 

PIE-PLANT PIE. 

Two eggs; one tablespoon flour; one teacup sugar; 
small lump butter. Beat well together. Add the pie- 
plant cut fine; beat well together, and bake with two 

crusts. MRS. JOS. BROWN. 

RHUBARB MINCE PIE. 

Three cups chopped rhubarb; one cup molasses; one 
cup sugar; one cup butter; one cup w^ater; one cup 
chopped raisins; five crackers (pounded); pinch salt; 
even teaspoon each of cloves, allspice, cinnamon. This 
will make three pies. ^^^ wilcox. 

APPLE PIE. 

Peel and grate four large tart apples, or one cup; 
one-half cup water; one-half cup sugar; little butter; 
cinnamon or nutmeg. Bake in one crust. Use the 
whites of two eggs, beaten stiff, or whipped cream for 
the top, and brown in oven. ^^^^g j^^^^^ ^ watson. 

LEMON PIE. 

Juice one lemon and one-half the rind, grated; two 
eggs, beaten; two tablespoons flour, mixed with one 
cup sugar; one small cup water. Pour this into pie 
tin lined with rich paste, and bake till filling is well 
set. Frost with whites of two eggs, beaten stiff, and 
bit of sugar added. Lightly brown over, and serve 

^^^^' MRS. C. E. MEADER. 



Marshall Ladies^ Choicest and Best. 73 

MINCE MEAT. 

I get five pounds lean beef, without bone (wliich will 
make three and a half quarts finely chopped beef), fif- 
teen quarts chopped apples, eight quarts sweet cider, 
two quarts boiled cider, four pounds raisins (seeded), 
three pounds currants, one and a half pounds citron, 
one-half pound lemon peel, one and a half pounds 
chopped suet, two cups New Orleans molasses, four 
cups butter, six teaspoons mace, eight teaspoons cin- 
njimon, five teaspoons each of cloves and allspice, and 
light brown sugar. Boil four or five hours, stirring 
often to prevent burning. This makes a large quan- 
tity, but will keep nicely, and should there be any left 
in spring, it can be boiled up, put into fruit jars, and 
be all right for another year. 

MRS. W'M. EVERETT, Waseca, Minn. 



CURRANT CREAM PIE. 

One cup currants; one cup sugar; one cup milk; 
two heaping tablespoons flour in the sugar. Stir sugar 
and milk until dissolved. Add currants last (do not 
crush). Made with one crust. 

MRS. JOHN L. WATSON. 

CRANBERRY PIE. 

One heaping cup cranberries; one tablespoon flour, 
mixed with one cup sugar; one-half cup water. Bake 
with two crusts in moderate oven. 

MRS. JOHN L. W^ATSON. 



74 Marshall Ladies^ Choicest and Best. 

FILLING FOR CREAM PIE WITH TWO CRUSTS. 

One pint sweet cream; one egg, beaten; five table- 
spoons sugar; one tablespoon flour; one-half teaspoon 
lemon extract. Bake with two crusts, and serve cold. 

MRS. C. E. HEADER. 

CURRANT PIE. 

Bake the crust first; then to as many currants as is 
required for one pie add one cup sugar, one tablespoon 
flour, yolks of two eggs. Mix well and cook, \^'hen 
thick remove from the stove and pour into the baked 
crust, and frost with the whites of two eggs. Set in 
oven and brown. ^^^ ^oj^^ cutting. 

CRANBERRY PIE— FINE. 



/ 



One and a half cups mashed cranberries; one-half 
cup raisins. Mix one tablespoon flour with one cup 
sugar. Stir this in with the cranberries, then add one- 
half cup cold water. Put on the stove, and cook until 
the cranberries are done. Cool, pour into the crust, 
and cover the top with a crust. Bake. 

MRS. CORA CUTTING. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Two cups stewed pumpkin; pinch of salt; one egg; 
two-thirds cup sugar; one-half teaspoon ginger; one 
teaspoon cinnamon; one-half teaspoon cloves; one 
scant pint of milk. This makes one large pie. 

MRS. CUTTING. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 75 

CREAM PIE. 

Line a pie tin with ricli crust. Place a cup of milk 
on the stove, with one-half cup sugar. When hot, 
thicken with a large tablespoon of cornstarch. Then 
take from stove, and add the white of one egg, beaten 
to a stiff froth, and a teaspoon of vanilla extract. 
When cool whip about one-half cup of sweet cream, 
flavored, and spread over the pie. 

MRS. J. STURGEON. 

APPLE PIE. 

Pare and slice thinly three or four apples; spread 
over crust; sweeten to taste; then add a large table- 
spoon of vinegar, and four or five pieces of butter, size 
of a hazelnut. Add top crust, and bake brown. 

MRS. A. DURRENBERGER. 

CREAM PIE. 

Stir a pint of sweet cream with a cup and a half of 
powdered sugar. Let stand while beating the whites 
of three eggs. Mix together thoroughly. Use nut- 
meg or vanilla for flavor. This will make a large pie, 
or two small ones without upper crusts. 

MRS. A. DURRENBERGER. 

TOMATO PIE. 

Peel and slice green tomatoes. Add two tablespoons 
vinegar, small piece butter, three tablespoons sugar 
and a little nutmeg. Bake with two crusts, slowly. 



\' 



f 



76 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

ENGLISH MINCE MEAT. 

In making mince meat, each ingredient should be 
minced separately and finely before adding to the oth- 
ers. Take two pounds stoned raisins, two pounds cur- 
rants, two pounds beef suet, one pound apples (pared 
and cored), two pounds brown sugar, one-half pound 
candied orange peel, one-quarter pound citron, grated 
rind of three lemons, one grated nutmeg, one-half 
ounce salt and one teaspoon ginger. Mince well, and 
add half pint French brandy. Press it into jars, and 
tie down. mrs. welsford. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Three bowls meat; five bowls apples; one bowl mo- 
lasses; one of vinegar; one of cider; one of suet or 
butter; two of raisins (seeded); five of sugar (light 
brown); one bottle of brandy (or, if you prefer, leave 
out brandy and add more cider); one tablespoon each 
cinnamon and cloves, one tablespoon each salt and 
black pepper; juice and grated rind of three lemons. 
Add all but meat and spices; boil until raisins are 
. tender; pour onto meat and spices. Add brandy after 
it is cold. If suet is used, scald it. I use bowl which 
holds little more than quart. y^^^ rogers. 

PIE CRUST. 

Three tablespoons flour; one of lard; two of water; 
little salt. Will make sufificient for one crust, and no 

■¥TTQ C + /i 

MRS. JAMES BURCHARD. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 77 

MINCE MEAT. 

For eveiy cup of cooked chopped meat, take two 
cups chopped apples, one cup meat broth or liquor, one 
cup raisins, one cup currants, one cup brown sugar, 
one-half cup molasses, one teaspoon cinnamon, one- 
half spoon each allspice and cloves, one-quarter tea- 
spoon mace, the juice and grated rind of one lemon, 
one-quarter pound citron, one-half pound candied fruit. 
Mix well togther, and add one cup sweet pickle vinegar 
and all remnants of jelly and preserves. 

MRS. BUMFORD. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Use tin one and a half inches dep. Line with crust, 
and set on stove for a minute to cook crust. Heat 
nearly a quart of new milk to boiling. Beat two eggs 
with three large tablespoons sugar. Flavor to taste, 
pour hot milk on, turn in crust, and bake just long 
enough to be firm. If some cream is used it is an im- 
provement. The queen of custard pies. 

MRS. ROGERS. 



78 



GO TO 



PATTERSON'S 

For anything called for in the recipes in 
this book. He has what you want. In 

GROCERIES 

He has a complete line of the best. In 

CROCKERY 

No line is better assorted, and in 

EVERYTHING. 

Prices are right. 

FARM PRODUCE WANTED. 

CHAS. E. PATTERSON, 




D^ 



I don't know how to 
cook, but I do know where 
to buy DRY GOODS. 



Baldwin's 

Bargain 

Bazaar, 

MARSHALL, MINN., 
Sells cheaper for 

Cash 

than any other store in 
this part of the state. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 79 

CAKE. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat together yolks of four eggs and two cups of 
pulverized sugar; stir in gradually one cup of sifted 
tiour and the whites of four eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth; then a cup of sifted flour, in which two tea- 
spoons of baking powder have been stirred, and lastly 
a scant teacup of boiling water, stirred in a little at a 
time; pinch salt; flavor. Do not make it any thicker. 
Bake in shallow pans. j^j^g cyrus p. shepherd. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Three eggs; one coffee cup flour; one cup sugar; 
one rounded spoon baking powder; two tablespoons 
sweet cream ; one teaspoon vanilla. Put all the ingre- 
dients in the dish together, and stir briskly ten min- 
utes. Bake in quick oven. j^j^g g. French. 

SNOW CAKE. 

One-half cup butter; one cup sugar; one and a half 
cups flour; one-half cup milk; whites of four eggs; one 
teaspoon baking powder. To be baked either in loaf 
or layers. 

PLAIN CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, one egg or the 
whites of two, butter size of walnut, two teaspoons 
baking powder*, two cups flour. Flavor with lemon. 

MRS. W. MAXSON. 



80 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

SPONGE CAKE (AFTER MAKING ANGEL'S 
FOOD). 

Yolks of eleven eggs; one cup sugar; one and a half 
cups flour; one-half cup boiling water; one teaspoon 
baking powder. ^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ ^^ ^^^^^^^ ^.^^ 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound of raisins, seeded; one pound of currants; 
one-half pound citron; two cups brown sugar; three 
cups flour; one cup butter; four eggs; one-quarter cup 
each coffee and brandy; one teaspoon soda; one tea- 
spoon cinnamon, less of cloves and allspice; a few 
chopped nuts; one nutmeg. ^^^ wakeman. 

HOME FRUIT CAKE. 

Three teacups flour, sifted, with three teaspoons 
baking powder; one teacup each brown sugar and 
molasses; one-half cup butter; three eggs; one-half 
teaspoon each allspice, cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg; 
one-half pound each stoned raisins, currants, figs and 
citron, cut fine; one teacup chopped nut meats. Mix 
fruit and spices the day before making cake. Bake in 

slow oven. MRS. W^ H. SIMONS, Morris, Minn. 

WALNUT CAKE. 

One and a half cups sugar; one-half cup butter; two 
cups flour; whites of four eggs; small three-quarters 
cup of sweet milk; two teaspoons baking powder; one 
cup walnut meats, chopped. ^^^^^ arvesen. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 81 

SCRIPTURE CAKE. 

One cup butter Judges v., '2o. 

Three cups flour I. Kings iv,, 22. 

Two cups sugar Jer. vi., 20. 

Two cups raisins I. Sam. xxx., 12. 

Two cups figs I. Sam. xxx., 12. 

One cup water Gen. xxiv., 17. 

One cup almonds Gen, xliii^ 11. 

Six eggs Isa. x., 14. 

One tablespoon honev (large) Exodus xvi., 31. 

Pinch of salt Lev. ii., 13. 

Spices to taste I. Kings x., 10. 

Two tablespoons baking powder I. Cor. v., 6. 

Follow Solomon's advice for making good boys, and 
you will have a good cake (Proverbs xxiii., 14). 

MRS. E. L. HEALtY, Morris, Minn. 

POOR MAX'S FRUIT CAKE. 

One cup shaved maple sugar; one cup sour milk; 
two cups flour; one cup raisins; two tablespoons mo- 
lasses; five tablespoons butter; one teaspoon soda; one 
teaspoon each cinnamon, cloves and allspice; one-half 

cup almon ► . ^rs MARTHA town, Black River, N. Y. 

EVERYDAY FRUIT CAKE. 

Two eggs; one cup brown sugar; one-half cup but- 
ter; one-half cup sour milk; one cup raisins, seeded 
and chopped; one and a half cups flour; one teaspoon 
soda; mixed spices and flavoring to taste. One loaf, 

simple and cheap. ^^^ ^^ ^ rOSS, St. Charles, Minn. 



82 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

PORK FRUIT CAKE. 

Two cups salt pork, chopped; two cups boiling wa- 
ter; two cups sugar; one cup molasses; one pound 
raisins; one pound currants; one-half pound citron; 
three teaspoons baking powder; flour to make as other 
fruit cake; spices to taste. Bake two hours. 

MRS. WILL, ROGERS. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

One cup butter; two cups sugar; one cup sweet 
milk; two and a half cups flour; whites of seven eggs; 
two even teaspoons baking powder; one pound each 
seeded raisins, almonds, figs, and one-fourth pound 
citron. Bake two hours. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pint sugar; one quart flour; one cup butter; one 
cup sweet milk; four eggs; one pound each currants 
and citron; two pounds raisins; one teaspoon each 
mace, cinnamon and cloves; one teaspoon soda; one 
and a half wineglasses brandy. 

MRS. F. P. WILLARD, Russell, Minn. 

CLOVE CAKE. 

Four cups flour; two cups sugar; one cup butter; two 
eggs ; one cup sweet milk ; one pound raisins ; one tea- 
spoon soda; one teaspoon ground cloves; one table- 
spoon each cinnamon and nutmeg. This cake will 
keep fresh for several weeks. ^^^^ ^^^^ pearce. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 83 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pint butter; two pints brown sugar; one pint 
flour; one cup dark molasses; ten eggs; six cups rai- 
sins; three cups citron; three cups almonds, after 
they are blanched; three cups currants; three cups 
figs; one teaspoon each, cinnamon, cloves, allspice and 
nutmeg; one gill brandy and one gill sherry wine. 
Stone the raisins. Wash and dry thoroughly the cur- 
rants. Shred the citron. Cut figs in small pieces. 
Put all together in wooden bowl, and chop fine. Chop 
and add the almonds, then sprinkle and rub thor- 
oughly with an extra pint flour, which has been 
browned. The cake is lightly put together in the us- 
ual way, and the fruit put in last. Line pans with 
thick buttered paper, and bake slowly in a moderate 

®^^^" MRS. C. F. CASE. 

FIVE MINUTE CAKE. 

One cup sugar; one-quarter cup butter; one-half cup 
cold water; one and a half cups flour; one and a half 
teaspoons baking powder; whites of two eggs. Put 
together in dish, and stir five minutes. Bake in small 
pan, and use any frosting. 

MRS. MARTHA TOW^N, Black River, N. Y. 

CORNSTARCH CAKE. 

One-half cup butter; one and a half cups sugar; one 
cup cornstarch; one and a half cups flour; one cup 
milk; one teaspoon baking powder; whites of four 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; flavor to taste. 

MRS. JOHN STRUTIHBRS, Faribault, Minn. 



84 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

DEVIL'S CAKE. 

One cup sugar; one-balf cup butter; one-lialf cup 
sweet milk; two eggs; two and a half cups flour; one 
teaspoon soda dissolved in hot water. 

Chocolate Part. — Put over fire one cup sweet milk; 
one cup grated chocolate. Stir until dissolved, then 
stir into it one cup sugar and the yolk of one egg which 
has been beaten light. Cook until thick. When cool 
mix custard with cake, and bake in layers. Put to- 
gether with white frosting. ^^^_ newman. 

DAEK FIG CAKE. 

Two cups sugar; one cup butter; one cup water, 
with one teaspoon soda dissolved into it; three cups 
raisins, chopped fine; one teaspoon cinnamon; a little 
nutmeg; four eggs; flour to make as stiff as pound 
cake. Take one pound figs, put a thin layev of cake in 
two tins, divide the figs, and cover batter with them. 
Bake remainder of batter, and cover the figs. Put 
two cakes together, with icing. 

MRS. W. B. THORBURN. 

BIRTHDAY CAKE. 

One cup butter; two cups sugar; three cups flour; 
one cup milk; four eggs; two teaspoons baking pow- 
der. Bake in large dripping pan, and frost heavily. 
When frosting is partly dry, mark off in squares, and 
put half an English walnut meat on each square. A 
very nice cake. 

MRS. EDWARD LAMM, Watertown, S. D. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and 'Best. 85 



LINCOLN CAKE. 

Eub one pound sugar and three-quarters pound but- 
ter together; add beaten yolks of six eggs, two cupfuls 
sour cream, with one teaspoon soda, dissolved in a 
little boiling water, and stirred into it just before add- 
ing to the cake; one teaspoon each nutmeg and cinna- 
mon; one pound sifted flour; one tablespoon rose- 
water; one-half pound citron, cut fine; and lastly, the 
whites of six eggs, beaten stiflf. Beat all together, and 
bake in square pans. ^^^ rogers. 

SPICE CAKE. 

One cup brown sugar; one cup white sugar; one cup 
butter; one cup cold coffee; one tablespoon each va- 
nilla and allspice; one-half teaspoon cinnamon; yolks 
of eleven eggs; flour to make a batter (not too stiff). 

MRS. C. F. CASE. 

ANGEL'S FOOD. 

One tumbler of flour, sifted five times ; one tumbler 
of sugar, sifted three times; one teaspoon cream tar- 
tar; pinch salt; one teaspoon vanilla; whites of 
eleven eggs, well beaten. Sift cream tartar into flour 
the last time. Bake forty minutes in moderate oven. 

MRS. P. M. CUTTING, Delavan, Wis. 

GINGER CAKE. 

One egg, well beaten; one cup molasses, beaten well 
together; add two-thirds cup boiling water poured 
onto one-half teaspoon soda; one-and a half cups flour; 
one-half teaspoon ginger, and good four tablespoons 
melted butter. Bake in moderate oven, 

MRS. CUTTING. 



86 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 



ANGEL'S FOOD CAKE. 

Take the "vhito? of nine or ten eggs, according to 
size, and add pinch salt. When partly whipped, add 
one dessert spoon of lemon juice (not extract). "NV^hen 
thoroughly whipped, add one cup granulated sugar 
and one teasj)oon vanilla. Sift one cup flour three or 
four times, -md stir carefully into cake. Bake forty- 
five minutes. hazel wakeman. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Three eggs; one cup sugar; one cup sour milk; one- 
half cup butter; one-half teaspoon soda; one teaspoon 
vanilla; one-quarter bar Baker's chocolate; one good 
cup flour. 

ICING. 

Four tablespoons sweet milk; stir stiff enough to 
spread with powdered sugar. 

MRS. SPEAR, Lake Crystal, S. D. 

CARAMEL CAKE. 

One cup sugar; one-half cup butter; one-half cup 
sweet milk; two eggs; two and one-half cups flour; 
one teaspoon soda dissolved in hot water. Put on the 
stove one cup sweet milk, one cup Baker's chocolate, 
grated. Stir until dissolved. Then stir into it one 
cup sugar and the yolk of one egg, which has been 
beaten lightly. Mix all together, and when cool mix 
custard with cake, and bake in three layers. Put to- 
gether with jelly to give a tart taste. 

ANNIE E. WARD, Redwood Falls. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 87 

BREAKFAST FRUIT CAKES. 

One cup light brown sugar; one-half cup butter; one 
cup thick, sour cream; two eggs, well beaten; two 
cups flour; one large cup raisins; one teaspoon soda; 
one level teaspoon cloves; two level teaspoons cinna- 
mon. Bake in iron gem pans, and serve with coffee. 
Can be used for loaf cake also. 

MRS. BESSiIE HEADER, Canton, Minn. 

WASHINGTON PIE. 

Two eggs; One cup sugar; one-half cup milk; one 
tablespoon butter; one and one-half cups flour; one 
teaspoon baking powder. Bake in layers. 

CREAM FOR FILLING. 

Ofiie-half pint milk; one egg; one-half cup sugar; two 
teaspoons cornstarch ; small piece butter. Flavor with 
vanilla. Cover top of cake with whipped cream. 

MRS. HUMPHREY. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

Boil with large cup hot water one-half cup butter. 
Stir in one cup flour. Let cook until it cleaves from 
side of dish. Set aside to cool. When cold, stir in 
four eggs, one at a time, without beating. Drop on 
buttered tins, and bake in fairly hot oven. 

CREAM FOR FILLING. 

One-half pint )nilk. Let come to boil. Stir in one 
egg, one-half cup sugar, two tablespoons flour, which 
have been mixed together. Flavor to taste. 

MRS. PAIGE. 



88 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

ROLLED JELLY CAKE. 

Four eggs; beat yolks. Add one cup sugar and beat 
again. Add one tablespoon water, one cup flour sifted 
with one teaspoon baking powder, and, lastly, add 
whites of four eggs, beaten to stiff froth. Line pan 
with thin brown paper. Do not butter either pan or 
paper. When done, let cool a little, and turn cake out. 
Wet cloth in cool water, brush oyer paper and pull 
off. Spread cake with jelly, roll up, and sprinkle with 
powdered sugar. ^^^ newi^ian. 

CARAMEL CAKE. 

One-half cup butter; one-half cup sugar; two cups 
flour; nearly one cup sweet milk; even teaspoon bak- 
ing powder; teaspoon flavoring; whites of four eggs. 
Bake in small dripping pan or in layers. 

CARAMEL. 

Two cups brown sugar; one-half cup sweet cream; 
one tablespoon butter. CoDk until thick, then add 
one teaspoon vanilla. ^^j^g j ^ ^lls. Minneapolis. 

DARK LAYER CAKE. 

One cup molasses; one cup sour cream; one-half 
cup butter; two cups flour; two level teaspoons soda; 
two teaspoons cinnamon; one teaspoon nutmeg; two 
eggs; one-half cup raisins, seeded. Bake in layers 
and put together with white frosting. 

MISS MARTHA TOWN, Black River, N. T. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 89 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two cups brown sugar; one-half cup butter; one- 
third cup sour milk; two eggs; two and one-half cups 
flour; two tablespoons grated chocolate, stirred into 
two-thirds cup boiling water; one teaspoon soda. This 
makes two layers. 

FROSTING. « 

Two cups white sugar; one cup milk. Boil. Stir 
in three or four tablespoons chocolate before done. 

MRS. JULIA DUNNINGTON, Redwood Falls, Minn. 

MOCHA CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar; one-half cup butter; 
one cup sweet milk; whites of four eggs; two cups 
flour; two teaspoons baking powder (level). 

FILLING. 

Three tablespoons coffee. Pour over this one cup 
boiling water; let stand until cool; strain. Add jolks 
of four eggs, three-fourths cup sugar, two tablespoons 
flour, butter size of a walnut. Boil until quite thick. 

MRS. O. E. MAXON. 

CHOCOLATE JUMBLES. 

One cup butter; two cups sugar; four eggs; three 
cups flour (scant); two teaspoons baking powder; one- 
half teaspoon salt; two cups grated chocolate. Mix 
stiff enough to roll out thin. Bake about ten minutes. 

MRS. D. M. CURTISS, Waseca, Minn. 



■90 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

JAM CAKE. 

Six eggs; two cups sugar; one and one-half cups 
butter; six tablespoons sour cream; four cups flour; 
two teaspoons each allspice, cloves, cinnamon and nut- 
meg; two teaspoons soda; two cups jam (any kind). 
Add jam last. Bake in layers. 

FILT^ING FOR CAKE. 

Three cups brown sugar; one cup butter; one cup 
sweet. cream. Cook until it hairs from spoon. Add 
one-half teaspoon vanilla, and beat until cool enough 

to spread. MRS. L. a. woodruff, Chatfleld, Minn. 

i 

SPICE CAKE. 

One cup sugar; one-half cup butter; one cup soar 
milk; one and a half cups flour; one cup raisins; one 
teaspoon cinnamon; one-half teaspoon cloves; one tea- 
spoon soda; two eggs. ^^^ p^ed parsons. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cup sugar; one-half cup butter; one-half cup 
milk; one and three-fourths cups flour; two level tea- 
spoons baking powder ; whites of three eggs, beaten to 
stiff froth. 

FILLING. 

One square Baker's chocolate; one tablespoon but- 
ter; one-fourth cup water; one cup sugar. Boil until 



Marshall Ladies^ Choicest and Best. 91 

it threads. Pour on well-beaten yolks of three eggs; 
teaspoon vanilla. Beat until cold. If desired, add a 
few rolled nut meats. ^^^ ^ ^ hoagland. 

GINGER CAKE. 

One cup molasses; two-thirds cup sugar; one cup 
cold water; one-half cup lard or drippings; one tea- 
spoon soda; one tablespoon ginger; flour to make not 
too stife. Bake in dripping pan. ^^^ j p remore. 



92 



THE 



BOSTON^ 
•^^ STORE. 



The Pioneer 
Store of 
MarshalL 



The Best Goods 

at the 
Lowest Prices. 

Always 

Reliable. 



A. C. Chittenden k Son. 



THE 

First National Bank. 

Marshall, Minn. 



H. M. langland, Pres't. 

R. M. iddison. Vice Pres't. 
M. W. Harden, Cashier. 

C. C. Guernsej, Ass't Casliier. 

General Banking Business; and the 
hospitality of the bank is extended 
to the public. Issues drafts pay- 
able on the principal cities of the 
world for any amount. 

Don't Fail to Call and See Us. 



The Lyon County 
National Bank. 

C M. Sullivan, Pres't. 
rtffiVare J D D. Forbes, Vice Pres't. 
omcers -j p ^ Sickler. Cash'r. 

I. W. S. Little, Ass't Cash'r. 



DIRECTORS. 



M. Sullivan, 
Jas. Lawrence, 
A. C. Chittenden, 
D. D. Forbes, 

Qeneral BanMcg 
Bnsiaess Trsisacted. 



Jno G. Schutz, 
F. W. Sickler, 
C. B. Tyler. 



Marshall, Minn. 



THE "FAIR STORE" 



i When You Buy 
i Our Clothing 
1 You Get the 

Best there is for 
4 the Least 
i Money. 



A. C. Chittenden & Son. 

R.M. ADDISON 
&SOIM^^- 

DEALERS IN 

Heavy and Shelf 
Hardware, Stoves, 
Tinware 

and Agricultural Implements 
of all kinds. 



& 



VIRGIL B. SEWARD. 
JOHN E. BURCHARD. 

Attorneys 

and Counselors at Law. 
Marshall, Minn. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 93 

FILLING, FROSTING, ETC. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM FROSTING. 

White of one egg, with an equal quantity of water. 
Beat egg to stiff froth. Add confectioners' sugar till 
thick enough to spread, flavor with vanilla, and spread 
on cake. Then melt one-half cake German sweet choco- 
late and one teaspoon boiling water. Beat well and 
pour over frosting. Will remain soft and creamy for 
a week. miss martha town. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

One-half cup sugar; butter size of an English wal- 
nut; one and one-half bars German sweet chocolate; 
two-thirds cup milk. Boil until stiff enough to spread. 
Flavor with vanilla. Use with either loaf or layer 
cake. MRS. j. b. murrat. 

DATE FILLING. 

One cup dates, seeded and chopped. Beat white of 
one egg very stiff. Beat into it one-half cup thick 
sweet cream, stir thick with powdered sugar, and add 
the dates. Use white icing on top, and ornament with 
large dates cut in halves. If you want it still better, 
mix chopped nut meats with dates, and also on top. 

MRS. E. L,. HILLYER, Minneapolis. 

CREAM FROSTING. 

Mix pulverized sugar with good sweet cream until 
you have consistency desired. Flavor with vanilla. 

MISS gaffney. 



94 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

CREAM NUT FILLING. 

Yolks of four eggs; one-half cup sugar; one cup 
milk; one tablespoon cornstarch; one pound English 
walnuts (chopped), or figs may be used. Cook until 

•-^^^^' MBS. ELLA PARSONS, Klondike. 

COOKED FROSTING. 

One cup granulated sugar; four tablespoons water; 
cream tartar as large as a pea. Cook until a drop won't 
stick to tin dish; beat whites of two eggs to stiff froth, 
pour on boiling syrup, and beat until cold enough to 
spread on cake. miss martha town. 

FILLING. 

Two cups sugar; one-half cup water. Boil until it 
hairs. Add whites of two eggs, beaten moderately. 
Stir till cool. Add one-half pound chopped figs and 
three-quarters pound English walnuts, reserving some 

for top. MRS. A. C. CHITTENDEN. 

FRUIT FILLING. 

Four tablespoons each of finely chopped citron and 
raisins; one-half cup blanched almonds, chopped; one- 
quarter pound finely chopped figs. Beat whites of 
three eggs to stiff froth; add one-half cup sugar; mix 
into this the chopped fruits, etc. Put between layers 
when cake is hot. Delicious. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 95- 

ORANGE FILLING. 

Juice of two oranges, with little of grated rind; one 
cup powdered sugar; beaten yolks of four eggs. 

MRS. EDITH ARVESEN. 

PEACH CREAM FILLING. 

Cut or chop peaches; whip some cream; put layer 
of peaches, with cream, on top between each layer. 
Bananas, strawberries and other fruit may be used. 

NUT FILLING. 

One cup sugar; one cup sour cream (thick); one cup 
hickory nuts (chopped). Let boil few minutes. Stir 
a little till cool. 

MRS. J. R. CONWAY. 

LEMON JELLY FILLING. 

One egg; one cup sugar; tablespoon butter; juice 
and rind of lemon. Cook till thick. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

One cup sugar; small tablespoon flour. Mix. One- 
half cup milk ; one-half bar sweet or eight tablespoons 
Baker's chocolate. Cook till thick. Add j)inch soda. 
Take from fire and add one tablespoon cold water. 
Beat till cold. 

MRS. W. B. THORBURN. 



96 Marshall Ladies^ Choicest and Best. 

COOKIES AND DOUGHNUTS. 

SOUR CREAM COOKIES. 

Three eggs; two cups sugar; one cup sour cream; 
two-thirds cup butter; one teaspoon soda, and grated 
nutmeg. Use as little flour as you can handle to roll. 
Bake in quick oven. j^j^s j l. gee. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

Two eggs; a little more than one-half cup butter; 
one cup sugar; one-half teaspoon soda (scant), in four 
tablespoons water. ^^^ newman. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

One cup butter; one cup molasses (dark); one-half 
teaspoon ginger; one-half teaspoon soda. Bake in 
sheets, after rolling quite thin. Frost with boiled 
frosting, then cut in squares, and if properly made will 
be soft and delicious. ^^^ ^_ ^ hillter. 

LEMON BISCUIT. 

One pint new milk; one pint lard; two and one-half 
cups sugar; whites of two eggs; five cents' worth 
baker's ammonia; five cents' worth oil of lemon. Put 
the ammonia in a fruit can, and pour milk on it; seal 
up and let stand all night. In morning put together 
same as cookies. Do not roll as thin, but bake same as 
cookies. Cut with square cutter. 

MISS MARTHA TOWN. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 97 



ROCKS. 

One and one-half cups sugar; one cup melted butter;, 
three large cups flour ; three eggs; pinch salt; one tea- 
spoon cinnamon; one teaspoon soda dissolved in a 
little warm water; one cup raisins, seeded and 
chopped; one pound English walnuts, chopped; two 
tablespoons brandy (or water). Drop from teaspoon 
bits size of walnut on buttered pans, and bake (not too 
fast). Just mix thoroughly when stirred up, but na 

™®^^' MISS MINA ROSS, St. Charles, Minn. 

VANITIES. 

Beat two eggs very light; add salt and flour to roll. 
Take piece dough large as hickorj^ nut; roll thin as 
paper; fry in hot lard; sift with sugar while warm. 

GRANDMA'S MOLASSES COOKIES. 

One-half cup brown sugar; two cups molasses; four 
teaspoons soda. Put in eight tablespoons boiling 
water; put on one tablespoon powdered alum, eight 
tablespoons lard and ten tablespoons butter. Mix soft. 
Bake in hot oven. 

MRS. GEO. H. CHAPMAN, Watertown, S. D. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

One cup sugar; one cup molasses; one cup shorten- 
ing (butter or lard); one-half cup sour milk; one eg^-, 
one tablespoon each vinegar, ginger and soda. 

MRS. BUMPORD. 



98 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

HERMITS. 

One-half cup butter ; one-half cup sugar; three eggs, 
beaten separately; four tablespoons sour milk; one 
teaspoon soda; two teaspoons cinnamon; one tea- 
spoon each cloves and allspice; one cup chopped rai- 
sins; flour until they will drop from spoon. 

MRS. IDA HICKS. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

One cup sugar; one cup molasses; one cup butter; 
two eggs, w^ell beaten; one tablespoon soda, dissolved 
in one-haff cup hot water; one tablespoon ginger; two 
tablespoons cinnamon; flour to make thick enough to 

I'^ll* MRS. E. L. HEALY, Morris, Minn. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Two cups molasses; one-half cup warm water; two- 
thirds cup melted lard; two heaping teaspoons soda; 
one tablespoon ginger. Mix soft. 

MRS. PAGE. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Two eggs; one cup sugar; one-half cup sour cream; 
one cup sweet milk; one-fourth teaspoon soda; one 
level teaspoon baking powder; pinch salt, cinnamon 
and nutmeg to taste. Beat w*ell; add flour to make 
soft; pat out with hands. 

MRS. MADISON. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 99 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Break two eggs into a bowl, with one large cup 
sugar, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda. Mix very 
soft. They will almost turn over themselves they are 

so light. j^j^g STANDRING. 

EGGLESS DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup sour cream; two cups sour milk; one and 
one-half cups sugar; one teaspoon soda; salt and cin- 
namon to taste. Mix soft and fry in hot lard. 

MRS. WATKINS. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One and one-half cups sugar; one cup sweet milk; 
butter size of egg; two teaspoons baking powder; 
three eggs. Stir up and let rise one hour, 

MRS. HARRIET SALISBURY. 

WHITE COOKIES. 

Two cups white sugar; one cup melted butter; one 
cup sour cream; two eggs; pinch salt; one teaspoon 
soda. Flour to mix soft. Roll thin and bake in quick 
oven. 

MRS. S. GREEN. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Two eggs; one cup sugar; one cup sour milk, in 
which has been put two tablespoons sour cream; one 
teaspoon soda; salt; flour to make not too stiif. 

MRS. ROGERS. 



100 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Two cups brown sugar; two cups butter; two cups 
molasses. Put the above into a pan and boil. When 
cold, add the rind of two lemons and one-lialf ounce 
ginger. They are very good without the lemon. 

MRS. LOUISE WALTON. 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 

Two cups oatmeal and two cups flour. Put these 
together, and into the mixture rub three-fourths cup 
butter. Stir thoroughly into this two eggs, well beat- 
en, with one and one-fourth cups sugar and bit of soda. 
Over this turn four tablespoons hot water. Flavor to 
taste. Bake in quick oven. ^^^ ^ ^ meadeA. 

FRUIT COOKIES. 

Yolks of two eggs; one-half cup sugar; one cup 
butter; one cup molasses; two teaspoons soda; one- 
half cup hot water; one cup raisins; one cup nuts; 
one teaspoon each ginger, cloves and cinnamon. 
Sprinkle sugar on top and frost under side. These 
will keep a long time. 

MRS. MATTTE HUGHES, Redwood Falls, Minn. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

Seven teacups flour; three cups sugar; one cup but- 
ter and lard; one cup sour milk; one teaspoon soda; 
three eggs; nutmeg. Roll soft. 

MRS. S. N. HARRINOTON. 



X 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 101 

COOKIES. 

One cup sour cream; one teaspoon soda, stirred in; 
one good-sized cup sugar; one egg; a little salt and 
nutmeg; flour to roll. ^^^ ^ ^ wbbster. 

PUFF-BALL DOUGHNUTS. 

Three eggs; one cup sugar; one pint milk; two tea- 
spoons baking powder; flour to permit the spoon to 
stand upright in mixture. Drop by dessertspoonfuls 
in hot lard. Will not absorb a bit of fat 

MRS. W^ILL GARY, Mankato, Minn. 

LEMON TARTS. 

Three eggs; one and one-half cups sugar; juice and 
rind of one lemon; one tablespoon butter; one table- 
spoon flour. Beat eggs and sugar together, add other 
ingredients, and beat again. Line patty tins with rich 
piecrust, fill and bake in quick oven. This will make 
one dozen. ^j^g g j^ Harrington. 

NE7ER-F AILING GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup each sugar, molasses, and shortening; one 
egg; one tablespoon each ginger and vinegar, dis- 
solving in the latter one teaspoon soda. Use no milk 
or water. Mix in seven cups flour and knead; roll; 
cut in any shape desired; bake in quick oven, taking 
care not to scorch. This is an excellent recipe. 

MRS. WILL. MULLANET. 



102 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 



MY FAVORITE GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup of sugar; one cup of butter; one cup of 
molasses; one egg; two tablespoons of vinegar. Beat 
butter, sugar and egg together thoroughly. Put one 
teaspoon of soda into molasses and beat; add this to 
butter and sugar; put one teaspoon of soda in the 
vinegar, and stir into the prepared mixture; add 
enough flour to roll nicely. Hard to make, but very 
nice. 

MRS. M. A. GROESBECK, Watertown, S. D. 

FRUIT COOKIES. 

Two. cups sugar; three eggs; one cup butter; one- 
half cup of New Orleans molasses; one teaspoon soda 
dissolved in a little water; one cup chopped raisins; 
one cup currants; one teaspoon cinnamon; one-half 
teaspoon allspice. 

MRS. J. GOODWIN. 



103 



HIGH GRADE 

STARCH 




MADE BT 



Sioux City Starch Co. 

SIOVX CITT, lowa. 



104 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 



PICKLES AND CATSUPS. 

In making pickles, use oils of cloves, etc., as they 
don't discolor as the others do. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

This well-tried recij)e will give eminent satisfaction 
if exactly followed. Select small cucumbers of as even 
size as possible; wash them well and remove the 
prickles; lay 600 to 800 in jars. Scald a brine strong 
enough to bear up an egg, pour it over them and let 
them remain in it twenty-four hours, then drain and 
wipe each one dry. Scald as much vinegar as will 
cover them, and pour over them. After twenty-four 
hours drain this off and place the pickles in the jars 
or bottles in which they are to be kept. Prepare a 
new vinegar as follows: To each gallon of the best 
cider vinegar add one quart brown sugar, two large, 
green peppers, one teaspoon white mustard seed and 
an ounce each ginger root, whole cloves, allspice, stick 
cinnamon and black pepper; one tablespoon celery 
seed; alum size of a butternut; one tablespoon horse- 
radish root, cut fine. Scald all these condiments with 
the vinegar and pour hot over pickles, being careful 
to distribute the spices through them as the recepta- 
cles are being filled. These pickles need no further 
care, save to keep in cool place, as the vinegar never 
molds, and the pickles remain as firm at close of the 
year as when made. 

MRS. ALICE CHACE. 



Marshal] Ladies' Choicest and Best. 105 



CHOW-CHOW. 

Two quarts small, white onions; two quarts small 
cucumbers; two quarts string beans; two small cauli- 
flowers; one-half dozen ripe, red peppers; one-half 
pound mustard seed; one pound ground mustard 
{which is better to get at druggist's) ; twenty or thirty 
bay leaves; two quarts good cider vinegar. Peel on- 
ions, halve cucumbers, string the beans and cut in 
small pieces the cauliflower. Put all in wooden bowl, 
and sprinkle well with salt. In morning wash and 
drain thoroughly, and put all into the cold, vinegar, 
except red peppers. Let boil twenty minutes slowly, 
turning often. Have wax melted in dish, and as 3'OU 
flll bottles, cork and dip in wax. The peppers put in 
to show to best advantage. Is as nice as Crosse & 
Blackwell's "chow-chow." -^^^ Rogers 

SPANISH PICKLE. 

Two gallons sliced green tomatoes; two quarts vin- 
egar; one quart sugar; two tablespoons each salt, 
ground mustard, black pepper, allspice and cloves. 
Mix and stew all together until tender. Stir often to 
prevent scorching. Can use less vinegar. 

MRS. W. M. ROSS, St. Charles, Minn. 

CUCUMBER PICKLE. 

-A 

Take small cucumbers, wash clean and pack in fruit 
can. When full, put one tablespoon salt on top, and 
fill up with cold vinegar. Seal up. Will keep a year. 

MISS MARTHA TQWN. 



Y 



106 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

For 500 cucumbers about a finger long: Three 
quarts salt; three gallons vinegar; five ounces alum; 
one-half i3ound sugar; one ounce allspice; three-quar- 
ters ounce cloves; one-quarter pound pepper and horse- 
radish. Dissolve salt in boiling water enough to cover 
cucumbers. Let stand over night. In morning drain 
and wipe. Put spices, etc., into vinegar. Let boil, and 
put onto cucumbers. Put horseradish in in pieces (not 
too much). Will keep for two or three years. An old 
and well tried recipe. 

MRS. F. P. W'lLLARD, Russell, Minn. 

MIXED PICKLE. 

One colander of sliced green tomatoes; one colander 
of cucumbers pared and sliced; one quart sliced on- 
ions; two good handfuls salt. Let all stand over night. 
In morning drain through sieve. Take one gallon vin- 
egar, one pound brown sugar, one teacup white mus- 
tard seed, one-half cup celery seed, one tablespoon 
black pepper, two tablespoons ground mustard, one 
teaspoon allspice. Let come just to boil, and pour 
over tomatoes, etc., hot. Tried, and never found want- 

^^^' ^ MRS. WILL ROGERS. 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

Use small onions, pour boiling water over and peel. 
Leave in salt water over night. Next morning steam 
until they can be pierced with fork. Put in jar, and 
turn hot spiced vinegar over. 

MRS. SARAH A. WATSON, River Falls, Wis. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 107 

SWEET TOMATO PICKLE. 

One peck green tomatoes; six large onions; one cup 
salt. Stand over night; drain. Cover with two quarts 
water, one quart vinegar. Let boil fifteen minutes; 
drain. Then take two quarts vinegar, one tablespoon 
cloves, two tablespoons each allspice, ginger, mustard 
and cinnamon, and one teaspoon cayenne pepper. Put 
in pickles, and boil fifteen minutes. 

MRS. JOS. ADDISON. 

CHOPPED TOMATO PICKLE. 

One peck green tomatoes, chopped fine as desired. 
Mix with one cup salt, and let stand over night. Drain 
well. Two quarts vinegar; three cups sugar; three- 
quarters cup white mustard, seed; two dessert spoons 
each ground cloves and cinnamon; one dessert spoon 
allspice. Boil chopped tomatoes in this one-half hour; 
put in jars and keep cool. ^^^ ^ ^ ^^^^^ 

COMBINATION PICKLE. 

Three quarts ripe tomatoes, peeled and chopped; 
one-half pint grated horseradish; one pint celery, 
chopped; one-half cup chopped onions; eight table- 
spoons each mustard seed, sugar and salt; two table- 
spoons chopped green peppers ; one tablespoon ground 
cinnamon; one teaspoon each cloves and mace; one 
quart vinegar. Mix all together. Needs no cooking. 
Will keep in any jar without sealing. 

MISS MARTHA TOWN, Black River, N. T. 



108 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Cover with boiling water; let them stand until cool, 
or next morning; drain. To every gallon of vinegar 
put two tablespoons white mustard seed, one of alum, 
two-thirds cup salt, a good handful horseradish roots. 
Pour over cucumbers in jar. Good in few days, or 
will keep a year. ^^^ larabbe. 

SALT CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Soak salted cucumbers over night in fresh water. 
In morning take out of water, and steam fifteen min- 
utes; put in jar. Put one cup sugar and a small 
handful of mixed spices. Pour over cold vinegar, 

MRS. S. G. MARSHALL. 
I 

SWEET PICKLE. 

To seven pounds fruit use one pound sugar and one 
tablespoon each of cloves, cinnamon, allspice, pepper 
and salt, and just vinegar enough to cover fruit when 
wilted by boiling. Boil all together till tender. 

MRS. C. H. RICHARDSON. 

GREEN TOMATO SWEET PICKLE. 

To seven pounds tomatoes, three pounds sugar and 
one pint vinegar, add one tablespoon each of all kinds 
spices. Steam the tomatoes until tender. Scald vin- 
egar, sugar and spices together, and pour over toma- 
toes. Do this three mornings in succession. 

MRS. C. H. RICHARDSON. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 109^ 

MUSTARD TICKLE. 

Four cauliflowers, cut up; one-half peck white on- 
ions; one-half peek cucumbers; six green peppers; a 
few green tomatoes. Let stand in salt over night. 
Drain next morning. Add one gallon best vinegar. 
Let them come to scald ; then add a paste made of one- 
half cup flour, three cups sugar, one ounce tumeric, 
one-half ounce mustard. Cook a few minutes and bot- 

^^^' MRS. E. J. WAKEMAN. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

One peck green tomatoes; three heads cabbage; six 
red peppers; three heads cauliflower. Chop fine and 
sprinkle with pint of salt. Let stand twenty-four 
hours. Drain thoroughly. Place in kettle with two 
pounds brown sugar, one ounce each of white mustard 
seed, black pepper and celery seed. Cover with strong 
vinegar and boil till clear. Onion may be added if 

desired. ^yj^lS D. G. STEWART, canton, Minn. 

KANSAS PICKLE. 

One hundred cucumbers, three inches long; slice 
with skins on ; twenty-five small onions, sliced. Layer 
cucumbers, then onions; sprinkle with salt. Let stand 
three hours; drain well. Then take one cup salad oil, 
two cups each white and black mustard seed, four 
tablespoons celery seed, four quarts cold vinegar. Stir 
well, pour over pickles and cover tight. 

MRS. O. PEHRSON. 



110 Marshall Ladies'' Choicest and Best. 

CHILE SAUCE. 

Take two quarts ripe tomatoes, four large onions 
and four red peppers. Chop them together; then add 
four cups vinegar, three tablespoons each cloves, 
ground cinnamon, ginger, allspice and nutmeg. Boil 
all together for one hour, and bottle after straining 
through sieve or coarse netting. Is equal to famous 
Worcestershire. 

OLD ENGLISH CHILE SAUCE. 

Remove the skins from twenty-four ripe tomatoes. 
Chop together with one onion, two peppers. Add two 
tablespoons each salt and sugar, one tablespoon each 
cloves, allspice and cinnamon and one quart vinegar. 
Boil two hours. Put in jars. 

MRS. JOS. ADDISON. 

CATSUP. 

One peck of tomatoes. Boil till soft, then run through 
sieve. Add one teacup sugar, one quart vinegar, two 
tablespoons ground mustard, two tablespoons white 
pepper, one teaspoon cayenne pepper, one teaspoon 
cloves, two teaspoons cinnamon and four tablespoons 
salt. Let boil away half. 

MRS. W. B. THORBURN. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. Ill 

JELLIES AND PRESERVES. 

STEWED CRANBERRIES. 

One pound cranberries, washed and picked over 
carefully; one pound granulated sugar; one-half pint 
water. Place water and sugar on stove to boil. When 
boiling put in berries. They will soon heat through 
and begin to burst. Stir continually until well cooked, 
which will take about ten minutes after all begins to 
boil. Dip mold in cold water and turn berries in; set 
till following day. The above makes them neither too 
sweet nor too sour. Will turn out like jelly; is nicer 
to eat with game or poultry, as you have full berry. 
One can prepare several pounds at a time, as it keeps 
perfectly, by pasting paper over dishes, for six or eight 
weeks. selected. 

LEMON JELLY. 

Dissolve one-half box gelatine in one cup cold water; 
grate yellow rind of two lemons, take off thick skin, 
and grate the pulp; put three cups water in granite 
kettle; add three even cups sugar; let boil few min- 
utes; add pulp and rind and gelatine; put into mold 
and set in cool place. 

BAKED PIEPLANT. 

Cut in pieces about an inch long; put in baking dish 
in layers with an equal weight of sugar; cover closely 

^^^ ^^^^- MRS. THORBURN. 



112 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

PIEPLANT PRESERVES. 

Wash clean, but do not peel; cut an inch ou two in 
length; put a layer in small jar, then layer of sugar;, 
another layer of pieplant, then sugar, until jar is full, 
allowing pound of sugar to pound of pieplant. Cover 
tightly, put in hot oven, and as soon as it is heated 
through it is done. Do not put in a drop of w^ater. 
An earthen bean pot is best to use, with cover. Fruit 
must then cook one-half hour. Put up in glass cans. 

PIEPLANT JELLY. 

Gather, wash and cut pieplant in small pieces (do 
not remove skin); put into kettle with very little wa- 
ter, and cook until very tender; pour into a jelly bag 
and let it drain; return to kettle before it cools. Boil 
one-half hour as hard as it can boil, then measure, and 
add as much sugar as there is juice after it has boiled. 

MRS. W. PIERSON. 

GRAPE-CITRON PRESERVES. 

Prepare citrons (thoroughly ripe) by paring and cut- 
ting into small cubes. Steam over hot water until 
tender; drain and weigh, then drop into hot syrup, al- 
lowing pound of granulated sugar to pound of fruit, 
and place over slow fire. Fill a basin with Concord 
grapes, and place over fire, letting them cook in their 
own juice until seeds and skins are cooked free from 
pulp, then put through fine sieve or fruit squeezer. Of 
this grape marmalade just prepared add to the citron 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 113 

a sufficient amount to color a bright red or purple, as 
the grapes may differ in color. Cook slowly until 
citron is clear, and of a bright, even color, and this will 
give a fljnor both delicate and palatable. 

MRS. C. E. MEADER, Canton, Minn> 



114 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

ICE CREA/Vl AND OTHER ICES. 

TUTTI FRUTTI ICE CREAM. 

Two quarts rich cream; one pound pulverized sugar; 
four whole eggs. Mix well together, place on fire, stir 
constantly and bring to a boiling point. Remove, and 
stir until cold. Flavor with one teaspoon of vanilla. 
Place in freezer, and when half frozen add one pound 
preserved fruits, peaches, apricots, cherries, pineapple, 
etc. All of these fruits are to be cut up in small 
pieces. j^jj^g CYRUS p. shepard. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE. - 

One can grated pineapple; one cup sugar; one and 
a half cups water; one-half box gelatine; whites of 
four eggs. Soak gelatine in one cup water. Put other 
one-half cup water on sugar; put on stove; dissolve, 
adding gelatine and pineapple; strain through cloth, 
and set away to cool. When a little stiff, add beaten 
whites of eggs. Beat all together thoroughly, turn in 
mold, and set in cold place. Serve with cream. 

MRS. S. N. HARRINGTON. 

SHERBET. 

Three cups sugar. Add one quart boiling water 
and boil for a few moments. When cool, add the juice 
of four lemons and a little more water. This may be 
varied by adding the juice of an orange, or mashed 
peaches during the peach season. It is particularly 
nice with the addition of some pitted cherries and one 
tablespoon almond flavoring. 

MRS. E. W. MAHONET. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 115 



CURRANT COZMIA. 

Five pounds currants; five pounds sugar; one pound 
seeded raisins; one pound English walnuts, chopped 
fine; grated rind and juice of one lemon; juice of four 
oranges and rind of three oranges. Boil rind in three 
or four different waters, to extract the oil. Boil until 
as thick as preserves, and when nearly done, add a 
dash of brandy. ^^^ ^ j^ cook, Bioomington, iii. 

LEMON SHERBET. 

Juice of four lemons; two cups granulated sugar; 
one quart of fresh milk and one teaspoon lemon ex- 

^^^^^- MRS. F. S. WETHBRBEE. 

TUTTI FRUTTI ICE CREAM (UNCOOKED). 

One quart cream; whites of three eggs, beaten very 
light; four tablespoonfuls sugar; one-half teaspoonful 
vanilla. Whip cream before freezing, and add ten 
cents' worth candied cherries, one teacup grated ijine- 
apple and one teacup English walnuts and almonds, 
mixed. MRS. gyrus p. sheppard. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

One-half box gelatine; soak in little cold water. 
One quart milk; let come to boiling point; four eggs, 
beaten separately. Add one cup sugar to yolks, and 
two tablespoons warm milk. Add gelatine to milk; 
then sugar and yolks. Let cook little. Remove from 
fire and add whites of eggs. Flavor with vanilla, 
lemon or almond. Cool in molds. 

MRS. E. J. WAKEMAN. 



116 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

GRAPE SHERBET. 

Sweeten one quart grape juice to taste. Add one 
cup sugar to two cups orange juice and stir until 
sugar is dissolved. Add to the grape juice. Turn into 
the freezer and freeze. Wlien nearly frozen, remove 
dasher and beat in with a spoon the white of one egg, 
beaten light, with two tablespoons powdered sugar, 
Beat well. mrs. r. r. bumpord. 

ORANGE SHERBET. 

Juice of four lemons; grated rind and juice of one 
orange; two cups of sugar, and one quart of rich milk. 
Have freezer packed and all ingredients very cold. 
Mix ingredients together in freezer and freeze quickly. 

MRS. W^M. EVERETT, W^aseca, Minn. 

MILK SHERBET. 

Boil one quart rich milk with the rind of one lemon 
and one pound sugar. When cold, put in freezer and 
half freeze. Then add whites of three eggs and juice 
of four lemons, with a little more sugar mixed with 
the lemon juice. mrs. r. r. bumford. 

CRANBERRY ICE. 

Two quarts of cranberries. Sweeten with sugar, 
boil and strain. Add juice and pulp of two oranges, 
juice of two lemons, then freeze. If too strong of 
cranberrv, add water. 

MRS. CYRUS P. SHEPARD. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 117 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

For one gallon: Five yolks of eggs, well beaten; 
three pints new milk; two coffee cups sugar; two 
s(]uares grated chocolate (Baker's). Cook smooth in 
double boiler. When ready to freeze, add three pints 
cream, well beaten, and whites of five eggs, beaten 
stiff. Flavor with vanilla. ^^^^ ^^^^ l. watson. 

PEACH ICE CREAM. 

Scald one quart cream (or one-half pint milk may be 
used instead of one-half pint of cream). Add one 
cup of sugar. Peel and slice a full quart of fine ripe 
peaches. Sweeten well, and add when cream is partly 
frozen. Allow an hour for cream to ripen after freez- 

^^^- MRS. EDITH ARVESEN. 

COFFEE CREAM. 

One and a half cups cream; one cup strong, hot 
coffee; one-half cup water; one-half cup sugar; three- 
(juarters ounce gelatine. Soak gelatine in water till 
dissolved; pour into the coffee; add sugar; cool and 
strain, and stir in cream, which should be whipped 
before adding. Fill molds, and set in cold place over 

■"^^^ *■• MRS. F. C. WHITNEY. 

PINEAPPLE ICE. 

Three and a half pints sugar; three and a half 
quarts water; one can grated pineapple. When nearly 
frozen, fill with whipped cream and freeze. 

MRS. O. E. MAXSON. 



118 




Testimonial. 

We have used this Cocoa and 
have found it all that it is rec- 
ommended to be. 

Mrs. J. W. Williams. 

Mrs. F. M. Healy. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 119 

BEVERAGES. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB. 

Place red raspberries iu a stone jar, cover them with 
good cider vinegar, and let stand over night. Next 
morning strain, and to one pint of juice add one pint 
sugar. Boil ten minutes, and bottle M'hile hot. 

MRS. W. C. KAYSER. 

SODA WATER. 

One-quarter pound tartaric acid ; whites of five eggs; 
five pounds white sugar; two quarts water; one ounce 
wintergreen essence. Let come to a boil; then bottle. 
To prepare the drink use two tablespoons syrup to 
glass of cold water, stir in one-quarter teaspoon soda. 
Put wintergreen in after it has boiled. 

MRS. THORBURN. 

MAKE TEA. 

Have teapot hot. Use small teaspoon tea for each 
person. Pour on boiling water, and let stand on back 
ov stove from seven to ten minutes. Do not boil. 

HOME-MADE WINE. 

GRAPE, CURRANT, ELDERBERRY, ETC. 

One quart clear juice; two quarts soft water; three 
pounds sugar. Put into large jar. Keep in warm 
place. As it works, skim. When through working, 
bottle. Put a part of water on pulp, and strain again. 

MRS. ROGERS. 



120 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

TO MAKE COFFEE. 

First, use good coffee; second, have it ground fine. 
Use one heaping teaspoon for each person. Put on 
about one cup of cold water for three or four tea- 
spoons; put on stove; let come to boil. Pour on boil- 
ing water to make desired amount. Let stand on back 
of stove few minutes, 

PUNCH, 

Six glasses jelly, three of currant and three of crab- 
apple, "NMiip to a froth, adding gradually one pint 
boiling water to each glass jelly. Add juice of one 
and a half dozen lemons, six cups sugar and juice of 
six oranges. Add cold water to make three gallons. 
Serve ice cold. 



F 



unke's Chocolates. 

Unequaled for Delicious Quality, 
Dainty Flavors and Purity. 




Name on Each Piece, Ask Your Dealer for Them. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 121 

CANDIES. 

CREAM CANDY. 

First, get jour flayorings, colorings and manilla pa- 
per ready. Have also a little melted chocolate, nuts 
and dates. The English walnut is the best to use ; the 
broken pieces can be chopped with figs, and is nice for 
filling some. Take a new basin, two cups granulated 
sugar, one-half cup of water and a very little pinch of 
cream of tartar. Then put it on to boil. Do not stir 
after it commences to boil. Let it boil until it threads 
from a spoon. You must be careful not to let it burn. 
When you think it has boiled long enough, so that 
when stirred it will grain, set it away to cool. You 
commence to stir until it grains. It is now read}^ for 
the hands. Divide into as manj' bunches as you want 
colors, but save the most of white. Flavor and color 
each bunch to suit the taste. Be careful not to color 
too highly. Mix each bunch well. It cannot be mixed 
too much. The chocolate can now be used in coloring. 

The shaping is the next thing. 

For strawberries, color red and shape like the berry, 
then roll in red sand sugar. 

For the striped, mold a little bunch of three or four 
colors in flat stripes, and lay one upon the other, then 
roll up and slice off with a thin, sharp knife. 

Form some in round flat bunches, and put half a 
walnut on the top. Fill dates with some, and press 
nearly together. If the candy has boiled just right, 
you can make in desired shape. You have put too 
much water with it if it does not grain. 

MRS. A. J. CHAMBERLAIN. 



122 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

MARSHMALLOWS. 

Take two ounces flue white, powdered gum arable. 
Cover it witli eight tablespoons of water. Let it stand 
for one hour, then set the vessel in boiling water and 
stir until the gum is dissolved. Strain through cheese- 
cloth into a double boiler, and add seven ounces of 
poAvdered sugar. Stir this over the fire until the mix- 
ture is white and stiff. This takes at least forty-five 
minutes. Then stir in hastily the well beaten whites 
of four eggs. Take it from the fire, beat rapidly for 
about two minutes, and add a teaspoonful of vanilla 
extract. Dust a' square tin pan with cornstarch, pour 
in the mixture, and stand in a cool place. When cold, 
cut in squares. 

FRANCES BLANCHE HILLTER, Minneapolis. 

FUDGES. 

Three cups light brown sugar; one-half cup hot wa- 
ter; butter size of an Qgg,; two tablespoons grated 
Baker's chocolate. Boil until, when dripping from 
spoon, the mixture threads. Add one teaspoon vanilla 
extract and two teaspoons of cream. Stir until cool. 

FRANCES BLANCHE HILLYER, Minneapolis. 

CARAMELS. 

One Clip brown sugar; one cup sweet cream; one 
cup w^hite sugar; one cup molasses; six ounces of 
chocolate; butter size of hickory nut. Boil until done, 
pour into buttered tins and cut. 

MRS. FREMONT HOAGLAND. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 123 

CREAM DATES. 

Put the whites of two eggs in a dish with equal 
quantities of cold water. Add a teaspoon of yanilla 
extract, and beat until it froths. Add sufficient pow- 
dered sugar to make a stiff paste, work the mixture 
until smooth, form into tiny, oblong rolls and press 
them into the center of the dates, from which the 
stones were removed. Press the halves together, roll 
in sugar, and set away to harden. 

MRS. W'. F. BRYANT. 

PRALINES. 

One cup brown sugar; one-quarter cup milk; one 
teaspoon butter; one cuj) English walnut meats. Cook 
until it hairs, or threads, then stir in the nut meats, 
either whole or chopped. 

MRS. HATTIE W'OODRUFP WILLIAMS, Chatfield, Minn. 

MAPLE NUT TAFFY. 

Two pounds maple sugar; one pint water. Boil, 
without stirring, till brittle when dropped in cold w^a- 
ter. When done, add one tablespoon vinegar. Have 
ready buttered tins, lined with nuts, and pour candy 
over them. When partly cool mark off into strips or 
stamp with dies. 

FUDGES. 

One cup milk; tw^o cups sugar; one-quarter cake 
Raker's chocolate; butter size of aw^alnut. Boil about 
twent3^ minutes, stir slowly all the time, pour in but- 
tered pans one-naif inch thick, let cool, and cut in 
diamonds or squares. 

MRS. T. A. WOODRUFF, Chatfield, Minn. 



124 




Pabst 
MaiCExtiae 

A high authority, dr. mary e. green, 

President of the National Household Economic Association. 
Member of the American Medical Association. 
Member of the American Public Health Association. 
Author of "Food Products of the World." 

The excellence of Pabst Malt Extract, The "Best" Tonic, Is not 
unknown to me, as I have used it professionally for years, always 
with most satisfactory results. For mothers nursing children, and 
for general debilitj' from any cause, I regard it as of especial value, 
as it combines both tonic and nutrient properties, which make it 
truly The "Best" Tonic. 

All Dealers In medicines sell Fabst Malt Extract. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 125 

MPJNU FOR FIRST PRIZE DINNER. 

Puree of Split Peas. Croutons. 

Fried or Sauted Fish. Sauce Tartare. 

Potato Roses. 

Boned Fowl, Steamed. Rice Stuffing. 

Cream Sauce. Buttered Onions. 

Lettuce Salad. ^ 

Crackers. Cheese, 

Sponge Cream Boxes. 

Coffee. 

Puree of Split Peas. — Crack the bones of the chicken, 
cover with water, and simmer gently four hours. At 
the first boil, skim, and at the end of the third hour, 
add one teaspoon salt, one-quarter of an onion with 
two cloves stuck in it, one-half teaspoon celery seed, 
or a sprig of dried celery top, one-quarter of a sliced 
carrot and turnip, one-half bay leaf, one-quarter tea- 
spoon whole pepper. At the end of fourth hour strain 
stock. When cold, remove the fat from surface. Cover 
one cup split peas with cold water and soak over night. 
In morning wash through several waters, then cover 
with pint of water and simmer two hours. Press 
through colander, then add one cup of stock and press 
through puree sieve. Add another cup stock, and re- 
turn to fire. Rub together one-half teaspoon flour and 
one tablespoon butter. Stir into puree and stir until 
perfectly smooth. Now add one-half teaspoon salt, 



126 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

one-quarter teaspoon pepper, one teaspoon grated on- 
ion. Boil gently five minutes, stirring all the time. 
Serve in tureen with croutons. 

Sauce Tartare. — Make one-half cup mayonnaise 
with tarragon vinegar and a little onion juice. Just 
before serving add one-half teaspoon each parsley and 
capers, chopped fine. 

Sauted Vish. — Wash and dry the fish, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper and roll in flour. Put salt pork grease 
in a frj'ing pan, and when it is hot lay in fish and cook 
until it is amber color on each side. 

Potato Koses. — To one cup of seasoned, mashed po- 
tatoes add one beaten egg and beat well together. 
Put the mixture in a pastry bag with a star-shaped 
opening, and press it through. As it comes through 
the tube guide it in a circle till it comes to a point. 
Save a little of the egg, and brush each rose with it. 
Place a bit of butter on each one, and brown in oven. 

Cream Sauce. — Make a roux of one tablespoon of 
butter and one of flour. Add a cup of milk, salt and 
pepper to taste, and the finely chopped gizzard and 
heart of the fowl. Let it boil up and serve. 

Boned Fowl. — Bone a two-pound fowl. Wash and 
wipe dry. Dust the inside with half a teaspoon of 
salts, one-quarter teaspoon pepper, and stuff with a 
cup of boiled rice, with tablespoon butter mixed with 
it. Dust outside with salt and pepper; tie in cheese- 
cloth. Steam until tender. 

Buttered Onions. — Boil four good-sized onions or 
eight smaller ones in salted water until tender. Drain, 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 127 



and dress with a salt spoon of white pepper, one of 
salt, and two tablespoons of melted butter. 

Lettuce Salad. — Wash the lettuce carefully and put 
in ice water until serving time. Then toss it in a clean 
towel until dry. Serve with a French dressing. 

Sponge Cream Boxes. — Make a sponge cake as fol- 
lows: Beat the yolk of an egg until thick, then add 
gradually one-half cup of finely granulated sugar. 
Then add alternately, in small quantities, two table- 
spoons of water and one-half cup flour which has been 
sifted with one-half teaspoon of baking powder, flavor 
with one-half teaspoon lemon extract, 'and lastly fold 
in the beaten white of an egg. Bake in a shallow tin, 
six inches square. Bake the day before using. Cut 
the cake into four square pieces, split each piece, and 
cut the top parts into four strips each. Stick these 
strips with a little sugar, cooked to a soft ball, to the 
sides of the square bottom pieces, thus forming shal- 
low boxes. Fill these boxes with half a pint of 
whipped cream, sweetened with two tablespoons of 
sugar and flavored with one-half teaspoon of vanilla. 

From November Ladies' Home Journal. 



128 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

LUNCHEON FOR FORTY PERSONS. 

FIRST COURSE. 

Escalloped Salmon or Crab. Tiny Tim Pickles. 

Sliced Bread and Butter. 

SECOND COURSE. 

Sliced Ham and Tongue, garnished Mith Parsley. 

Saratoga Chips. Pineapple Jelly. 

Rolls and Coffee. 

THIRD COURSE. 

Chicken Salad. Salted Wafers and Olives. 

FOURTH COURSE. 

Angel's Food. Layer Cake. 

Ice Cream and Strjawberries. 

Quantity of material for above: 
Two quarts sweet cream. 

Escalloped Fish. — Four cans fish; one quart bread 
crumbs; one pint cream. 
Two bottles Tiny Tims. 

Two small loaves of bread, cut thin and buttered. 
Seven pounds boiled ham. 
Two small beef tongues. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 129 

Two boxes Saratoga chips. 

Sixty rolls. 

Pineapple Jelly. — Two boxes gelatine; one can pine- 
apple; three lemons. 

One pound best coffee. 

Three chickens; three large heads celery; dressing 
made of two dozen yolks of eggs and one cup cream. 

One pound salted wafers. 

Two bottles olives (forty in each). 

Three pounds fine butter. 

Three dozen eggs. 

Two angel's foods. 

Two small layer cakes. 

Two gallons ice cream. 

Seven quarts fresh strawberries. 

If ice cream is prepared at home, more cream and 
milk will be needed; also, ice and common salt. 

MRS. JAMRS BURCHARD. 



130 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

CLEANSING FLUID. 

Foiir ounces ujnmonia; four ounces white castilo 
soap; two ounces each alcohol, glycerine and ether. 
Cut soap fine; dissolve in one quart water over fire; 
add four (quarts water. When nearly cold add other 
ingredients. This will make nearly eight quarts, and 
will cost about seventy-five cents. Put in bottle and 
stopper tight. It will keep good any length of time. 
Nice to wash all woolen goods; invaluable for remov- 
ing marks on furniture. To wash goods, use about 
one cup of fluid to a pail of luke-Avarm water, rinse 
well in plenty of clear water, and iron on wrong side 
while damp. For coat collars, etc., take little fluid in 
cup; apply with clean rag; wipe well with second clean 
rag. It will make woolens look bright. 

DIRECTIONS FOR WASHING FABRICS CON- 
TAINING WOOL. 

Soak thirty minutes in warm soap suds. Next wash 
in clean soap suds by squeezing with your hands — no 
rubbing. Rinse well in warm water, lay out the gar- 
ment on a board or table, and give it its original shape 
by forming by hand; then hang up lengthwise to dry, 
and iron while slightly damp. Keep the temperature 
of the different waters about the same. Don't wash 
in water used for other clothes. Don't rub soap on 
the garment. Avoid patent wash powders and all 
soap containing alkali. A good olive oil soap is the 
best. 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 131 

YEAST. 

One gallon water; five cents' worth hops. Let boil 
good; strain, and add five potatoes grated and one 
large tablespoon flour; stir, and let just boil up; turn 
into crock. Add one cup sugar (white), and, when cool 
enough, one yeast cake which has been dissolved in 
little warm water. Let rise; stir down once; put in 
jug with one-half cup salt. Don't put cork in tight 
for several hours, or you will have an explosion. Will 
keep several weeks in' cool place. ^^^ rogers 

TO CLEAN CAEPETS AND RUGS. 

Two bars of Ivory soap (shaved) in one gallon of soft 
water; four ounces borax; sixteen ounces salsoda; 
four ounces pulverized fuller's earth. Boil to mix. Re- 
move from fire, and add nine gallons of cold water. 
Apply freely to rug, and scrub with soft brush. Wipe 
off foam with dry cloth. ^^^ ^ blanchard. 

TO RENEW BLACK LACE. 

Sponge thoroughly on both sides with alcohol ; then 
wrap and pin round a bottle, and leave until thor 

OUghly dry. I^jj^g hOLCOMB, Bloomlngton, 111. 

REMOV'E MILDEW. 

Wet in rain water; rub the spots with soap and 
chalk; lay in dew and sun two or three days and 
nights; rub thoroughly with soap and chalk once or 
twice a day. 



132 Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 

WASHING FLUID. 

Soda borax, one ounce; ammonia carbonate, two 
ounces; washing soda, one and a half pounds; Bab- 
bitt's potash, one can. Mix in^ne gallon of cold, soft 
water, stir until dissolved, then bottle. Use two- 
thirds cup to two pails of water. Soak clothes over 
night; then wring out; soap well, and put into boiler 
which has this fluid in water, and boil ten minutes; 
take out, suds well and rinse. nelt^ie m. baker. 

RECIPE FOR RENOVENE. 

Six bars Ivory soap; six gallons soft water; one 
pound borax:; five cents' worth glycerine; ten cents' 
worth ammonia; ten cents' worth oil sassafras. Dis- 
solve the soap in water, and add borax while hot. 
When cold add other stuff, and let it get cold. 

PICKLE FOR HAMS OR BEEF. 

For 100 pounds meat, seven pounds coarse salt, two 
pounds br(\wn sugar, one (]uart molasses, one quarter 
pound saltpetei', one-luilf pound soda, six gallons soft. 
water. Let come to boil, and sldm. Let cool. Put in 
meat for thirty days. ^ ^^^ thorburn. 

BAKING POWDER. 

Six ounces tartaric acid, eight ounces best baking 
soda, and one quart best patent flour. Sift five or six 
times through fine sieve so as to thoroughly mix. Keep 
well corked, and use same quantity as other powder, 



Marshall Ladies' Choicest and Best. 133 

TO REMOVE STAINS. 

Gocoa stains can be removed from linen by wash- 
ing- Avitli Ia'oi'j soap and cold vvatei'. 

Ink stains can be removed by dipping' the spotted 
pai't in tallow, melted. Wasli out the tallow, and the 
ink will disax)pear. 

REMOVE IRON RUST. 

Juice of lemon and salt i>laced on spot, and fabric 
placed in sun, will remoye nist. 

TO KILL PLANT LICE. 

Cigar ashes will kill lice on rose bushes without 
injuring plant. I have tried it in many instances with 
great success. 

To clean lace curtains without washing, shake gen- 
tly to remove loose dust; then spr(>ad a clean sheet 
on floor, and lay the curtains one above the other, with 
a plentiful sprinkling of bran between them. Roll 
them up tightly; init away in dry place for week or 
(<Mi days; tlien sliake the bran out, and with a moder- 
ately hot iron press out wrinkles, and your curtains 
are as nice as new. 

To remove kerosene oil from carpets, cover stain 
with bran, and let remain twenty-four hours, or until 
oil is absorbed. 

Care should be taken of gasoline, as it is a deadly 
poison, 



r 



r 



/^ 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




■'m0ri- 



m. 014 487 454 7 










P 

\ 

■ 



