BERKELEY 

LIBRARY 

UNIVERSITY Of 
CALIFORNIA 




THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 

OF CALIFORNIA 

AGRICULTURE 
BEQUEST 

OF 

ANITA D. S. BLAKE 



Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2006 witii funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



littp://www.arcliive.org/details/cateringfortwocoOOjamericli 



CATERING FOR TWO 

COMFORT AND ECONOMY 
FOR SMALL HOUSEHOLDS 



BY 
ALICE L.- JAMES 



SECOND IMPRESSION 



G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS 

NEW YORK AND LONDON 

%^t Knickerbocker |prws 

1899 



Copyright, 1898 

BY 

G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS 



AGRICULTURE 
GIFT 

Zbc ftnicherbocker iprese, laew l^orft 



TXl/s 



AGRIC 
LIBRARY 



To 
MARY FRANCES HARMAN 



134 



PREFACE. 

THE difficulty of reducing the average rules 
of the cook books to meet the wants of a 
family of two or three, added to the urgent 
solicitations of friends, has suggested to the 
writer the need of this little book. 

Dining well on small means is an art only to 
be acquired by long experience, and the object 
of the following chapters is to give the result 
of sixteen years' labor and study, so that the 
way may be made easier for others just taking 
upon themselves the duties of a housewife. 

In the accompanying menus the directions 
are exact and absolutely reliable. 

There is no indefinite **a little" of this, or 
** just enough " of that, to puzzle the beginner, 
and the dishes, which are nourishing and ap- 
petizing, are inexpensive as well, a considera- 
tion not always taken into account. 

Catering for Two is for the inexperienced 
cook, and while the proportions are limited to 
the needs of two, or at most three, it is only 
necessary to double the rules to make the quan- 
tities sufficient for the ordinary family. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

DINNERS I 

COMPANY I^UNCHEONS . . . 183 

BREAKFAST, TEA, AND I^UNCHEON DISHES. 1 92 

FANCY DESSERTS 229 

MISCEI,I.ANEOUS RECIPES . . . .245 
HEI<PFUl< SUGGESTIONS .... 262 
INDEX 281 



Vll 



CATERING FOR TWO. 



DINNERS. 

I. 

Consomm^ with rice. 

Oyster pie. 

Pickled cabbage. Grape jelly. 

Egg salad with greens. 

Crackers. Cheese. 

Roly-poly peach pudding. 

Egg sauce. 

Tea or coffee. Caramel jelly. 



Alternative : Round steak (fried). 
Farina pudding. 

CONSOMM^ WITH RICE. 

Get a shank of mutton weighing about two 

pounds, or two shanks weighing a pound each. 

Wipe with a damp cloth and cut off any dried 



2 Catering tor ^wo. 

outer skin, dredge with two tablespoon fuls of 
flour, pour on a quart of cold water, and, after 
soaking a few hours, simmer for several hours, 
covered closely. 

Strain off this liquor, pour over the bones and 
meat enough cold water to cover, and cook 
again for another hour. Strain and add to 
the first quantity of liquor and throw away 
the bones and meat. Salt to taste, add an 
onion, carrot, and turnip, and cook until the 
vegetables are tender ; these may be put away 
for a salad, and when the broth is cold, take 
off the cake of fat. There should be nearly a 
quart of solid jelly. Take a pint of this, add a 
tablespoonful of washed rice, and cook gently 
until the rice is tender. 

A little minced parsley may be added at the 
last moment. 

This broth is much relished by the sick, and 
may be varied in many ways. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Twenty-five medium-sized freshened oysters. 

Slice very thin a cupful of raw potatoes, pour 
on them one cup of rich, sweet milk, cover the 
dish (of earthenware) closely, and cook on top 
of the stove until done. Do not stir them, but 
watch carefully that they do not burn. 

When the potatoes are cool, place the oysters 
on top of them, pepper and salt lightly, add the 



Catertng for Zvoo. 3 

oyster liquor and a tablespoonful of butter in 
small pieces. Place over all a cover of pie- 
crust, made as follows, and bake in a very hot 
oven for fifteen minutes. 

Sift together a cup of flour and half a tea- 
spoonful of salt and cut into it with a knife 
two heaping tablespoon fuls of lard as cold and 
hard as ice can make it. 

When the lard is the size of peas, stir in 
with a fork four tablespooufuls of ice-water, 
and mould quickly into a ball ; flour the mould- 
ing-board, roll out once, cut a few little slits or 
fancy figures in the centre, and lay upon the 
oysters. Trim off the overlapping edges and 
bake at once. Make any paste that is left into 
a little tart. 

ROLY-POLY PUDDING (BAKED). 

Sift together one cup of flour, one teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder, and half a teaspoonful 
of salt. Chop this with a scant half-cup of suet 
(ice cold) and mix quickly with two thirds of 
a cup of ice-cold water. 

Mould into a long roll and roll out on a 
floured moulding-board as thin as it will hold 
together. 

Have ready three or four peeled and sliced 
fine juicy peaches (canned will do), cover the 
paste with them, dredge lightly with flour, and 
roll up like a ielly roll. 



4 Caterina tor ^wo. 

Place in an earthen dish, and bake in a mod- 
erately hot oven for three quarters of an hour. 

Serve hot with the following sauce : 

Cream with a fork a half-cup of sweet butter, 
add a cupful of granulated sugar, and stir well ; 
then add the yolk of a small egg and stir, then 
the frothed white, whipping the whole until 
very light. 

Now add a quarter-cupful of boiling water, set 
over the teakettle, and cook and stir for several 
minutes. It should be a little thick, and quite 
foamy. 

Flavor with a tablespoonful of wine or 
brandy, or vanilla to taste. 

This sauce will keep a week or longer in a 
cool place, and may be warmed up by setting 
over a teakettle. 

The pudding may be warmed in the oven in a 
covered dish. 

PICKIvED CABBAGE. 

One cabbage, solid and crisp. 

Two ounces mustard seed, one heaping table- 
spoonful of black pepper. 

Two tablespoonfuls of salt, one quart cider 
vinegar, three onions, one red-pepper pod, one 
tablespoonful sugar, one heaping tablespoonful 
mixed spices, whole cloves, cinnamon, allspice, 
and a speck of mace. Tie the spices in a piece 
of cheese-cloth, giving them plenty of room. 



Catering tor ^wo. 5 

Chop the cabbage, or, if preferred, shave into 
ribbons, put it with the onions and pepper 
pod chopped fine into an earthen crock, in 
alternate layers with the salt, pepper, and 
mustard seed. 

Stamp with a potato masher, to press all to- 
gether closely, but not hard enough to bruise 
the cabbage. Put the bag of spices on top, and 
over the whole lay a heavy plate, pouring the 
vinegar on at the last. Put on the cover of the 
jar and set in a cool place. It will be ready for 
the table in a few days, and will keep for months 
in cool weather if made after frost sets in. 

The vinegar must not be heated, nor the cab- 
bage. Everything is in the raw state for this 
pickle. 

CARAMBI. JEIvLY. 

Melt one heaping tablespoonful of gelatine 
in two tablespoon fuls of cold water, add the 
juice and grated rind of half a lemon, three 
tablespoon fuls of granulated sugar, a pinch of 
ground cinnamon, a teaspoonful of sugar burned 
brown, a few grains of salt, and one cupful and 
four tablespoon fuls of boiling water (in hot 
weather omit the extra four tablespoons of 
boiling water). Stir and strain, and set away to 
harden on ice. 

This makes a delicious dessert with whipped 
cream (and gelatine) heaped on top. 



6 Catering tor q:wo. 

FRIED ROUND STEAK. 

Ask for the prime cut of round steak. 

Trim off the outer edges of fat, cut a piece 
from the steak large enough for a meal, and 
pound with a hammer until it becomes like 
jelly. Press into shape and fry in a smoking- 
hot spider ; it will take only a minute for each 
side to become brown, as the fire must be very 
hot. 

Place upon a bed of fresh water-cresses. Add 
a tablespoonful of butter to the spider, which 
must now be slightly cooled, stir in an even 
teaspoon ful of flour, salt, and pepper ; pour in 
four tablespoonfuls of boiling water, cook a 
minute, and pour over the steak. Serve at 
once. The remainder of the steak may be 
broiled or made into a beefsteak pudding with 
suet crust. 

FARINA PUDDING. 

Stir with a spoon a cup and a half of boiling 
milk until it whirls, then slowly pour in a 
heaping tablespoonful of farina, stirring all the 
time. Add one fourth of an even teaspoonful 
of salt, cook five minutes, and then set in 
another saucepan containing boiling water and 
cook, covered, fifteen minutes, stirring occa- 
sionally. Flavor with lemon or vanilla and 
turn into cups. 

Serve cold with sweetened cream. 



II. 



Chicken broth. 

Sirloin steak (oven roast). 

Lyonnaise potatoes. 

Macaroni with cheese. 

Stewed peaches or prunes. 

Tomato salad. French dressing. 

Whipped-cream cake. 

Stewed strawberries. Tea or coffee. 



Alternative : Beef stew with sweet potatoes. 
Tomato fritters. 



CHICKEN BROTH. 

Put into a kettle the neck, lower parts of the 
leg, and the wing tips of a large fat fowl. 

Dredge with flour and add a pint ot cold 
water. After soaking an hour, simmer gently, 
closely covered, until the meat drops from the 
bones, strain and put the broth back on the 
fire, then add a cupful more water to the bones 

7 



8 Catertng tor ^wo» 

and cook an hour longer ; add this liquor also 
to the broth and throw away the chicken. 

There should be a scant pint of broth. 

Season with onion juice, salt and pepper, 
and a little parsley, boil up, and serve with 
squares of bread toasted brown in the oven . 

Make chicken salad of the body of the fowl. 

SIRLOIN STEAK. 

A prime cut of sirloin steak will weigh about 
two pounds and a half. Cut off enough for 
two broils, and use the rest for the oven roast. 
Trim off the outside edges of fat, dust the meat 
lightl}'^ with pepper and flour, and roll it into a 
compact roll, pinning securely together with a 
long clinch-nail. 

These nails may be found at a hardware store, 
and are just the thing to use for little roasts. 
Broil the meat over a clear, fierce bed of coals 
just long enough to seal up the juices (hasten- 
ing the process as much as possible). 

Place a piece of fat on a baking-tin, put the 
meat upon it, and roast in a hot oven for about 
twenty minutes. Take from the oven, remove 
the skewers, being careful not to disturb the 
shape of the meat, sprinkle with salt, and pour 
over a gravy made by adding a scant half-cup- 
ful of boiling water to the baking-pan in which 
a teaspoonful of flour has been browned ; salt 
to taste and pour off" the grease. 



Catering tor ^wo. 9 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

Slice a cupful of onions and two cupfuls of 
cold boiled or baked potatoes. 

Put them in alternate layers in a baking-dish 
for the table. Cream a tablespoonful of butter 
with a teaspoonful of flour, add half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a cupful of boiling milk, cook 
up, and pour over the potatoes and onions. 

Dust with pepper and bake half an hour, un- 
covered, in a moderate oven, or cover and 
cook on top of the stove ; they are better baked, 
however. 

MACARONI WITH CHEESE. 

Soak half a cupful of macaroni in two cups 
of boiling water twenty minutes, then boil until 
tender, — about thirty minutes. 

Skim out the macaroni, put into an earthen 
dish, sprinkle with half a teaspoonful of salt, a 
dust of pepper, and spread over the top thin 
slices of old English cheese. 

Add a teaspoonful of butter and half a cup of 
milk. 

Bake twenty minutes and serve in the baking- 
dish. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Serve the tomatoes (pared) on lettuce leaves, 
either with a mayonnaise or French dressing. 
They must be ice cold, to be good. 



lo Catering for q;wo. 

WHIPPBD-CREAM CAKE. 

Sift three times one and a half cupfuls of 
flour lightly put into the measure, with one 
and a half teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and 
one scant half-teaspoonful of salt. 

Rub into the flour a lump of butter the size of 
an egg (this will be a little less than a fourth 
of a cupful). 

Put an egg into a bowl, pour on one scant cup- 
ful of sugar, and beat together, then add slowly 
two thirds of a cupful of water. Add flavoring, 
and pour slowly into the flour, beating it in 
with the hand until the batter is smooth and 
foamy. 

This should take about five minutes ; the 
hand should be freshly washed in hot water for 
the purpose, and the fingers must be spread 
apart in order to beat properly. 

Fill two shallow layer-cake pans half full, 
not more, and bake in a hot oven. When cold, 
put between and on the top layer two thirds of a 
cup of cream whipped to a stiff" froth. Keep in 
a cold place several hours before serving. 

The remainder of the batter may be made 
into little drop cakes, half a teaspoonful for 
each, and baked on the bottom of inverted 
tins. 

If whipped cream is not at hand, proceed as 
follows, making a lemon cake. 



Catering for C^wo. n 

LEMON CAKE. 

Dissolve half a teaspoonful of corn-starch in 
one tablespoonful of cold water, add three table- 
spoonfuls of boiling water, a few grains of salt, 
and boil several minutes. Put into a deep 
bowl two cupfuls of confectioner's sugar, and 
one third of the juice of one lemon. Add by 
the teaspoonful enough of the corn-starch mix- 
ture to make a paste thin enough to spread 
easily between and on top of the cakes. This 
is a delicious frosting for any cake, and it will 
always be soft. Orange may be substituted for 
lemon if preferred. 

STEWED STRAWBERRIES. 

One cupful of water, one cupful of sugar, 
three cupfuls berries, measured after being 
picked over and rinsed. Boil the sugar and 
water until clear, add the berries, and cook 
two or three minutes after boiling begins. 
This rule will serve for blackberries and rasp- 
berries also, and may be used when canning 
these fruits. Fruit should always be put into a 
boiling syrup ; and this is the rule for dried 
fruits also. They should never be soaked ; 
simply washed, and put immediately into the 
boiling syrup. A cupful of berries with a third 
of a cup each of sugar and water is enough for 
one meal. 



12 Catering tor ^wo. 

STEWED PEACHES (RIPE). 

Rub the down from the peaches with a coarse 
towel, quarter and stone them. 

Allow one tablespoonful of sugar and one 
tablespoon ful of water for every medium-sized 
peach. 

Put the stones, water, and sugar on to boil for 
a few minutes, remove the former, put in the 
fruit, and when boiling begins cook gently for 
five minutes. 

Peaches may be peeled if liked, but the skins 
are very delicious. 

They may be baked by cutting in halves, 
filling with a tablespoonful of sugar, and add- 
ing a tablespoonful of water to the pan. 

Cover and bake. 

STEWED PRUNES (RICH). 

Make a syrup of two cups of water and one 
cup of sugar, add half a lemon thinly sliced, 
and one pound of prunes which have been 
rinsed, but not soaked, in cold water. Sim- 
mer gently in a covered earthen or agate-ware 
vessel for four hours. Then pour over them 
a syrup made of one cupful of sugar and one 
(or two) cupfuls of boiling water cooked to- 
gether ten minutes. 

Boil the prunes a few minutes longer and 
serve either hot or cold. 



catering tor ^wo. 13 

Covered, in a cool place they will keep weeks. 
The little Turkish prune is the best, and this 
will not need the lemon. 

BEEF STEW WITH SWEET POTATOES. 

Have one pound of chuck or stewing beef cut 
into two-inch pieces. 

Dredge with a tablespoon of flour, add a table- 
spoonful of fried salt pork cut into dice (but not 
the grease), and either a piece of red-pepper pod 
the size of a thumb-nail, or a pinch of cayenne. 

Use an earthen or agate vessel with a fitted 
cover, and simmer the meat for two hours in 
a scant cupful of boiling water. Then add two 
small sweet potatoes, peeled and washed ; add 
a scant teaspoonful of salt, cook until the po- 
tatoes are done, and serve on a platter. 

Be careful not to break the potatoes. 



III. 



Broth. 
Mutton with caper sauce. 

Boiled rice. 

Parsnip with cream sauce. 

Crab-apple jelly. Bread and butter. 

Celery hearts, Neufchatel cheese. 

Salted Saratoga chip crackers. 

Steamed dumpling (raised). 

Caramel sauce. 

Canned or stewed fresh cherries, strawberries, 

or peaches. 

Oranges. Tea or coffee. 

BROTH. 

Take the bone cut from a mutton shank 
weighing a pound and a half. 

Cover with a quart of cold water, and, after 
soaking an hour or so, heat gradually, and boil 
gently until meat and bone separate. 

This will take several hours. Then add two 
tablespoon fuls of tomatoes, one teaspoonful 
washed rice, half an onion, grated, and boil 

14 



Catcrina tor ^vvo» 15 

until there is a pint of broth. Strain, skim off 
fat, add salt to taste, and serve. A tiny pinch 
of red pepper is an addition. 

BOILED MUTTON WITH CAPER SAUCE. 

Get a shank of mutton weighing one and a 
half pounds. Trim off the outer skin, which 
generally is the cause of the " woolly taste " so 
often complained of in mutton. 

Cut out the bone, dredge the meat on all 
sides with flour, dust with black pepper, and 
put it into a small deep agate pot with a close- 
fitting cover ; pour over one and a half cupfuls 
of boiling water, and when boiling begins, set 
on the back of the stove to cook gently for 
about two hours. 

When done, put the mutton on a deep platter 
and season with salt and pepper. Skim the fat 
from the gravy, which will be reduced to a cup- 
ful, add a teaspoon ful of flour blended with .a 
teaspoonful of butter, stir well, cook a few min- 
utes, add salt to taste and one or two table- 
spoonfuls of capers, boil up, and serve either 
poured around the mutton or in a gravy 
tureen. 

If capers are not liked, a spoonful of tomato 
catsup, or an onion sliced ^nd cooked with the 
mutton, can be substituted. If greater deli- 
cacy is preferred, do not use the gravy at all, 
but make a white sauce, called drawn butter. 



i6 Catcrins tor Zwo, 

Mix an even tablespoouful of flour with a 
lump of butter the size of an egg, stir to a 
cream, and slowly add a cupful of boiling 
water, stirring and cooking several minutes. 
Add salt and pepper to taste, with the capers, 
boil up, and serve. A tablespoouful of minced 
parsley may be used instead of the capers. The 
gravy may be added to the broth, or it may 
form the basis of a soup for another day. 

It is not safe to keep mutton stock more than 
twenty-four hours, except in freezing weather. 

BOIIvBD RICE. 

Wash half a cupful of rice, drain, and pour 
it gradually into a pint of fast-boiling water, to 
which half an even teaspoonful of salt has been 
added. Stir all the time the rice is being 
poured in. Boil hard for a minute, then cover 
closely, and set upon a part of the stove where 
it will simmer for an hour or a little longer, 
covered all the time. The rice will be per- 
fectly soft and yet retain its shape, and the 
water will all have been absorbed. 

Heap on a dish, butter liberally, and dust 
with pepper. 

PARSNIP WITH CRBAM SAUCB. 

# 

Scrape and wash, but do not soak, a fine 
large parsnip. Cover it with boiling water and 
cook until tender. 



Caterfng tor ^wo. 17 

Cut into slices half an inch thick, put into a 
vegetable dish, and pour over a sauce made by 
stirring to a cream one tablespoonful of butter 
and one of flour, and adding a cupful of boiling 
water, with salt and pepper to taste. This sauce 
should boil ten minutes. 

Sometimes parsnips have a core so hard that 
no amount of boiling will make it tender. 

From twenty to thirty minutes is the time 
allowed, and if the core still remains unyield- 
ing, cut it out of each slice and discard. 

Any parsnip left over may be mashed and 
served in a little cake browned in a frying-pan. 

CELERY HEARTS. 

Wash the hearts of fine crisp celery, place 
upon a celery dish, and pass with Neufchatel 
cheese and Saratoga chip crackers, salted. It 
is not necessary to bring on fresh plates for this 
little course, as the bread-and-butter plates at 
each place will answer, if one wishes to save 
steps or time. 

STEAMED DUMPIvING. 

One half yeast-cake, three quarters cup of 
water, or milk and water mixed, one heaping 
cup of flour, one half-teaspoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, one egg, heaping table- 
spoonful butter. 



i8 Catering tor XLvoo. 

Melt the butter and yeast-cake in the warmed 
milk, beat the egg, and sift flour, salt, and 
sugar together. 

Mix all these ingredients, and set in a warm 
place for one hour. 

At the end of this time, beat the mixture, fill 
a mould one third full, and let the dough rise 
until it is nearly doubled in bulk, which will 
be in about half an hour. Set in a steamer and 
cook one hour, then cover and keep hot until 
ready to serve. 

CARAMEI. SAUCE FOR STEAMED 
DUMPLING. 

Stir to a cream one tablespoonful of butter, 
two tablespoonfuls of confectioner's sugar. 
Add a little caramel (directions to follow) and 
the yolk of an egg. Beat for several minutes. 

Add more, or all, of the caramel, and more 
sugar if desired, and, at the last, one table- 
spoonful of wine or brandy. 

This pudding will keep a week in a cool place, 
if covered, and may be warmed for another 
meal by setting on a plate, covered closely 
with a bowl, and set in the oven, or in a steamer. 

CARAMEL OR BURNT SUGAR. 

To make the caramel, put on a cool part of 
the stove, to melt, four heaping tablespoonfuls 
of granulated sugar with two tablespoonfuls 



Catering for Zvoo. 19 

water, and let it cook gently for half an hour, 
covered. At this time it should be bright, 
coffee-brown syrup, clear as amber. 

Be careful not to have the fire too hot, or the 
caramel will be burned and have a bitter taste. 
It must not be stirred, as this will grain the 
sugar, but the saucepan can be shifted from 
side to side, carefully, if necessary. 

Now add to the syrup six tablespoon fuls boil- 
ing water, one spoonful at a time, pouring it 
directly into the middle of the mass. Let this 
boil gently for two minutes without stirring, 
then mix with a spoon, cooking and stirring 
for another minute. 

There should be just a half-cupful of syrup, 
perfectly clear and free from lumps. 

Cool before using. 

ORANGES. 

Select fine, large oranges. Soften them a 
little by rolling gently on the kitchen table 
with the hand. 

Cut off an inch-thick slice from the stem end 
and replace it, so that the fruit will present a 
whole appearance. 

Serve on dessert plates with orange spoons or 
stout teaspoons. 

The choice or delicate teaspoons are apt to be 
twisted and ruined when used as orange scoops. 
The oranges may be cut in halves if preferred. 



IV. 



Tomato bisque. 

Porter-house roast. 

White turnips and potatoes mashed together. 

Baked rhubarb sauce. 

Celery salad. Cream cheese. 

Graham wafers. 

Corn-starch pudding with candied fruits. 

Tea or coffee. 

Bread and butter served with second course. 

TOMATO BISQUE. 

Put the bone cut from a porter-house roast 
into an agate pot having a fitted cover, and 
soak for an hour or so in a quart of cold water. 
Then bring slowly to a boil and cook gently 
until the liquor is reduced to a cupful. Bone 
and meat should have dropped apart by this 
time (about four hours). Add half a cupful of 
tomatoes, in which is well mixed a dessert- 
spoonful of flour ; add also a teaspoonful of 
onion juice, and boil gently for half an hour. 



datering tor Zvco* 21 

Strain, skim off the fat, return to the pot, and 
add half a cupful of milk (fresh and rich) in 
which a pinch of baking-soda has been dis- 
solved. Stir well while heating, and when it 
boils up, season to taste and serve. 

ROAST BKEF. 

Order about three pounds from prime cut of 
porter-house roast. Have the bone taken out 
and sent home for soup-stock, and have also 
the long coarse end cut off and corned for 
twenty-four or thirty hours, or a little longer if 
preferred. 

Cut ofif the outer edge of fat, as it is dry and 
likely to be bitter. Skewer the meat firmly 
with a long clinch-nail. These nails make the 
best skewers for small roasts or cuts, as, having 
broad, flat heads, they can be removed with 
ease. 

The meat should now be browned on all 
sides. This is not necessary for large roasts, 
but for small ones ; it is the best way to make 
them retain their juices and sweetness. Either 
broil over a fierce bed of coals, or fry in a 
smoking-hot frying-pan. The meat does not 
want to be cooked, only browned well, and this 
process should take but a few minutes. Now 
dredge with flour on all sides, pepper lightly, 
and place, fat side down, on a meat-rack (a 
wire tea-stand will do) in a small dripping-pan. 



22 Catering tor ^wo. 

Roast in a hot oven for fifteen minutes, then 
add a half-cupful of boiling water, cover the 
meat with a pan, and in thirty minutes take 
from the oven. 

Cut a deep, narrow slit, and pry apart to see 
if it is done to suit. If too rare return to the 
oven for fifteen or twenty minutes longer. 

Never allow the water in the pan to boil en- 
tirely away, or the gravy will be scorched to 
bitterness ; it should be merely browned. 

Put the roast on a platter, dust on all sides 
with salt, and garnish with celery tops. Stir 
together a teaspoonful of flour, and enough 
cold water to blend together smoothly (about 
two tablespoonfuls), add this to the sediment in 
the dripping-pan, and boil up. 

Add also a little boiling water and salt to 
taste. There should be half a cupful of gravy. 
Serve in a tureen. If the gravy is too pale, add 
a few drops of caramel. 

If there is no sediment and no grease, which 
often occurs, put a tablespoonful of butter in 
the pan, brown it slightly, and then add flour 
and water as directed. 

The meat is far more delicious when it keeps 
its juices while cooking. 

In carving, cut across the grain, and always 
add to each plate a spoonful of red juice from 
the platter ; this is called " dish grav\'," and is 
the life of the meat. 

The roast may be served for another dinner by 



Catering tor (Two. 23 

putting it in a moderate oven and simply heat- 
ing it through. 

For still another time, cut the meat into dice, 
always cutting across the grain, dredge with 
flour, and cover with boiling water. 

Cover closely and stew gently from two to two 
and a half hours. 

Add onions or tomatoes, or serve plain. 

Salt and pepper to taste. Chop fine any 
which may be left, and add one fourth as much 
cold baked potatoes, a few drops of onion juice, 
a little flour, butter, and milk, and you have a 
hash for breakfast. 

Either fry in cakes, or serve with dipped 
toast. When cutting meat for a stew do not 
use the fat ; if you want fat, get salt pork and 
brown it, and use this without the grease. 

If any hash is left, do not throw it away ; it 
can go into the soup-pot with other scraps of 
meat, bones, and vegetables. 

When the coarse end comes, which you have 
left with the butcher to be corned, cover it with 
a quart of boiling water, and cook gently for 
three hours. This piece is not good when hot ; 
let it get cold in the liquor it boiled in, and 
slice for luncheon or tea, or make into hash. 

Soups and corned beef may be cooked in a 
slow oven after they are started to boil on top 
of the stove, thus saving the house from the 
long-continued odors ; onions and cabbage may 
be treated in the same way. 



24 Catering tor XLvco, 

WHITE TURNIPS AND POTATOES 
MASHED TOGETHER. 

Wash and peel two medium-sized potatoes 
and two turnips equal in size to the potatoes. 

Cut in halves and cook, in enough boiling 
water to cover, from twenty minutes to half an 
hour. Test with a fork, and when tender drain 
by turning into a sieve or colander. 

Return them to the pot which has been dried, 
mash thoroughly, add a dessert-spoonful of 
butter, and one third of a teaspoonful of salt. 
Stir with a fork and add more salt if needed. 
Heap in a vegetable tureen, smooth the top, put 
on a lump of butter the size of a walnut, sprinkle 
with pepper, and keep hot, uncovered in the 
oven, until wanted. If any is left, either make 
it into a little cake and fry in butter, or add to 
the soup vegetables. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Break into half-inch pieces one cupful of 
crisp, blanched celery stalks. Little tough 
strings will hold the pieces together ; strip 
these off. 

Make a dressing of one tablespoonful of olive- 
oil, a dash of cayenne pepper, one fourth of a 
teaspoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of real 
cider vinegar. 

Toss the celery about in this and serve in 



Catering tor Zvoo. 25 

shallow salad bowl, either on a bed of lettuce 

leaves, or garnished with watercress or parsley. 

Pass Graham wafers and any preferred cream 

cheese, Bagle, or Philadelphia, Neufchatel, etc. 

CORN-STARCH PUDDING WITH CANDIED 
FRUIT. 

Put one cup of milk on the stove, and when 
it boils add two level tablespoon fuls of corn- 
starch mixed with a pinch of salt, and two 
tablespoon fuls cold milk. Boil for a few min- 
utes, stirring constantly from the bottom and 
sides ; then put the saucepan into another con- 
taining boiling water, cover, and stir occasion- 
ally to prevent a crust forming. Cook ten 
minutes. 

Beat one egg until very light, add one tea- 
spoonful of sugar, beat a few minutes longer, 
and stir into the corn-starch. Cook one minute, 
stirring well, add one fourth of a teaspoonful of 
lemon extract, remove from the fire. 

Beat a few minutes with a wire spoon and 
pour into a mould. 

When cold, turn out on a dish, place candied 
cherries, or any other candied fruit or rich pre- 
serves, around the edge, and serve with cream 
sweetened to taste and flavored with a teaspoon- 
ful of sherry or lemon extract. 

Be exact in measuring the milk and corn -starch, 
as a little more or less will spoil the pudding. 



26 Catering for a:wo. 

Smootli off the corn-starch with a knife-blade, 
to be sure that the spoonfuls are level ones. 

TEA. -• 

Put into a dry, heated earthenware teapot two 
level teaspoon fuls of tea, and pour on one pint 
of freshly boiling water. 

Cover and set on a hot part of the stove where 
it will not boil-t)ut simply keep hot for ten min- 
utes ; then strain into a heated china teapot for 
the table. 

Throw away the tea-leaves ; they have been 
exhausted of all that is fit for use. 



V. 



Soup. 

Roast lamb. Grape jelly. 

Escalloped potatoes. 

White turnips with cream sauce. 

Bread and butter. 

Salad. 

Chicory or lettuce. 

Cheese sandwiches. 

Orange tapioca pudding with whipped cream. 

Tea or coffee. Dates and English walnuts. 

SOUP. 

Take one and a half cupfuls of clear soup- 
stock, heat, and add the yolk of a hot hard- 
boiled egg which has been mashed to a smooth 
paste with a level teaspoonful of flour and a 
heaping teaspoonful of butter. 

Stir this well into the boiling stock, cook for 
a minute, add salt and pepper to taste, and 
serve. 

The white of the egg may be sliced and added 
if desired. 

27 



28 Catering for XLwo, 

If the soup is lumpy after the paste is added, 
strain before serving. 

If more onion flavor is liked, grate in a few 
drops. 

CI.EAR SOUP-STOCK. 

In the family where soup is considered a daily 
necessity, the housekeeper will find that a soup- 
stock kept in bulk, ready for use, will be not 
only of great convenience, but a saving of time 
and labor as well. 

The following is a delicious white stock which 
will keep a week in cold weather. 

Soak over night in two quarts of cold water, 
one cupful of split peas. Next morning add a 
quarter of a pound of delicately browned fried 
salt pork (do not use the grease), one pound 
of stewing veal from the neck, dredged lightly 
with flour, one chopped onion, one chopped 
carrot, several sprigs of parsley, a pinch of cay- 
enne pepper, and one teaspoonful of sugar. 
Set on the back of the range to heat slowly, 
and cook for five or six hours, closely covered, 
very gently. Add salt to taste, the last half- 
hour. 

When done, pour into a soup-strainer set 
over a deep dish, and let it drain. 

Put that which remains in the sieve back into 
the pot, add a cup of hot water and boil ten or 
fifteen minutes, then drain again, throwing 



Catering tor ^wo. 29 

away that which remains in the strainer. 
There should be something over a quart of 
liquor. 

When cold, carefully remove the clear layer 
of jelly on top and use it for clear soup. 

The thick part remaining in the bottom of 
the dish may be converted into a tomato soup 
by adding the same quantity of tomatoes which 
have been cooked and strained. 

This makes a fine thick soup for luncheon 
or for a dinner when cold sliced roasts are 
used. 

The addition of a turkey or chicken carcass 
makes this stock still more delicious. Break 
the bones into small pieces, cover with cold 
water, and boil for several hours. Strain and 
add to the stock. 

A fine large turkey carcass will yield a 
pint of jelly, and a chicken carcass half a cup- 
ful. 

Hard-boiled eggs, tomatoes, rice, noodles, or 
milk and macaroni, may be added to the clear 
stock as desired, making agreeable changes 
from day to day. 

ROAST IvAMB. 

Take a chop two inches thick from the prime 
part of a fine leg of lamb. Dust it with pepper, 
dredge with flour, and put it into a hot spider to 
brown on all sides over a hot fire ; or broil it 



30 Catering tor ^wo. 

over a clear fierce fire. This seals up the juices, 
preventing their escape while roasting. 

The meat should cook only long enough to 
become brown. 

Do not puncture with a fork, but use a broad 
knife for turning. 

Time, from five to eight minutes. 

Put a meat-rack or wire tea-stand into a drip- 
ping-pan or pie-pan, lay the meat on it, and 
roast in a moderate oven from thirty to fifty 
minutes. Take it out at the expiration of thirty 
minutes and cut a small deep gash in the cen- 
tre ; pry apart, and if not cooked to suit, return 
to the oven and bake longer. 

The juice should be red, but the meat a 
brownish pink. 

Dust with salt, and put it on a small warmed 
platter. 

Mix a rounded tablespoonful of flour with two 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, and stir this into 
the gravy in the pan ; add a half-cupful of boil- 
ing water, stir well, boil a few minutes, add salt 
to taste, and serve either in a gravy-boat or pour 
it over the meat on the platter. 

Serve as soon as possible, garnished with 
parsley. 

In carving, serve only the choice portions cut 
in wedges. 

Reserve the poorer part and bones for a sec- 
ond meal, which is prepared in this way : Cut 
into dice, dredge with flour, cover with boiling 



Catering tor ^wo. 31 

water, and stew gently, closely covered, for an 
hour, or longer if necessary. Add any gravy 
which was left, salt to taste, take out the bones, 
add two tablespoon fuls of capers, and, after 
boiling up once, serve. If there was no gravy, 
make some by blending together one table- 
spoonful of butter and one teaspoonful of flour, 
and stir into the stew before adding the capers. 
Add also a little water if needed. 

BSCAIyLOPBD POTATOES. 

Slice in thin slices two cupfuls of cold boiled 
or baked potatoes. Dust with flour, salt, and 
black pepper, put into an earthen baking-dish, 
distribute a dessert-spoonful of butter over the 
top in small pieces, and fill the dish with milk 
to just cover the top of the potatoes. 

Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. 
The top should be a delicate brown, and the 
potatoes a little creamy. If baked too long or 
too fast they will be hard and dry. 

Serve in the dish in which they were baked. 

TURNIPS WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

Wash and peel two medium-sized white tur- 
nips. Slice in inch pieces and cook in boiling 
water just enough to cover, with half a tea- 
spoonful of salt. When tender, drain and put 
them in a hot vegetable dish. Make a sauce 



32 Catering tor Z\oo, 

of a dessert-spoonful of butter, one of flour, and 
a pinch of salt blended together. 

Add half a cupful of hot milk, boil up, and 
pour over the turnips. 

Sprinkle with pepper and send to the table. 

SAIvAD OF CHICORY OR IvKTTUCK 
WITH FRENCH DRESSING. 

Wash and pull apart a crisp head of chicory 
and serve with a dressing of three scant table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar (real cider vinegar), one 
saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper, 
and six tablespoonfuls of olive-oil. 

Pass, with this, small cheese sandwiches made 
in this way : 

Grate three tablespoonfuls of cheese, add one 
teaspoonful of butter and a pinch of cayenne 
pepper; work into a paste with a knife-blade 
and spread on the end of a loaf of bread. Cut 
this off in a slice a quarter of an inch thick, re- 
move the crust and double together, cutting the 
sandwiches about three inches square. Use old 
English cheese. 

ORANGE TAPIOCA PUDDING WITH 
WHIPPED CREAM. 

Put two heaping tablespoonfuls of flake tapi- 
oca in a cloth and pound it to the size of small 
peas. Rinse in cold water and soak over night 



Catering tor ^wo. 33 

in a cupful of cold water. Next morning add 
an eighth of a teaspoonful of salt, three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and two thirds of a cupful of 
orange juice. 

Add more sugar if the oranges are very 
sour. 

Cook until clear (about five minutes after the 
boiling begins), stirring constantly to prevent 
scorching. 

Pour into a glass dish and, when cold, heap 
whipped cream on top. 

Serve with sponge cake, lady-fingers, or del- 
icate crackers. 

The cream is prepared in this way : 

Put into an ice-cold bowl four tablespoon fuls 
of ice-cold cream and whip with a wire spoon 
for about ten minutes, or until it is stiff, then 
add a few grains of salt, one heaping table- 
spoonful of confectioner's sugar, and either a 
pinch of grated orange rind or a quarter of a 
teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

To get the juice from oranges, cut crosswise 
and take out with a spoon the pulp in each sec- 
tion, rejecting seeds and all tough portions. 

The cream sold from the dairies where a 
** separator " is used is easily whipped. 

It is often called "new process cream " and 
does not need to be drained after being beaten 
stiflf. If the cream will not whip readily it may 
be used plain with a little sugar and gelatine in 
this way : 



34 Catering tor XTwo. 

SUBSTITUTE FOR WHIPPED CREAM. 

Put one even teaspoonful of gelatine in three 
teaspoonfuls of cold water, soak ten minutes, 
then melt in a warm place until it is liquid. 

Whip for five or six minutes with a wire 
spoon in a warm room, when the gelatine will 
become stiff froth. 

Add five tablespoonfuls of rich cream, very 
cold, one tablespoonful confectioner's sugar, a 
few grains of salt, and flavoring to suit. 

Pour immediately over the pudding, which 
must be quite cold. 



VI. 

Potato pur^e. 

Fried ham. Cream gravy. 

Fried hominy. 

Stewed corn or parsnip patties. 

Tomatoes stewed in butter. 

Bscalloped oysters. 

Cold slaw. Crackers. Cheese. 

Lemon meringue pie. 

Tea or coffee. 



Alternative : Mutton pot-roast. Cherry pudding. 

PUR^B OF POTATOES. 

To a heaping cupful of mashed potatoes add 
a tablespoonful of butter rubbed with a tea- 
spoonful of flour. Stir into this a pint of boiling 
milk (carefully, to prevent lumping), add a tea- 
spoonful of onion juice, half a teaspoon ful of 
salt, boil up, and strain. 

Serve with minced parsley and squares of 
bread toasted brown in the oven. 

35 



36 CaterinQ for ^wo. 

FRIED HAM. 

One slice of ham three quarters of an inch 
thick. 

Cut ofif the rind, put ham into a smoking-hot 
spider, and fry each side one minute. Remove 
to a cooler part of the range and fry each side 
ten minutes ; sprinkle with a teaspoonful of 
granulated sugar after turning the last time. 

Put the meat on a platter, pour into the spider 
two thirds of a cup of milk, stir the sediment, 
boil once, and pour over the ham. 

If ham is suspected of being too salt, soak a 
few hours in the milk which should afterwards 
be used for the gravy. 

FRIED HOMINY. 

Slice cold boiled hominy, dredge with flour, 
and fry brown in a little hot salt-pork drippings. 
Serve buttered and peppered. 

STEWED CORN. 

Grate a heaping cupful of green uncooked 
corn, add one fourth of a cupful of rich milk, 
a dust of flour, pepper and salt to taste, and a 
teaspoonful of butter. Boil up once and take 
from the fire. If cooked corn is used, do not 
boil it, but add to the milk, etc., which must be 
boiling, stir, and serve as soon as it is hot. 

Canned corn may be used in the same way. 



Gatering tor Zxco. 37 

PARSNIP PATTIES. 

Wash and boil till very tender in salted boil- 
ing water, one large parsnip. Scrape off the 
skin and mash to a pulp while hot ; there 
should be a cupful. 

Add one heaping teaspoonful of butter, one 
of flour, and half an even teaspoonful of salt. 
Stir well, and add the yolk of an egg, and mould 
into four little flat cakes. 

If the mixture sticks, dip the hands into cold 
water, shake off the drops, and proceed. 

Dip the cakes into powdered cracker crumbs, 
and when cold fry a delicate brown in hot 
butter. 

It will take a teaspoonful of butter for each 
side. Do not cook longer than actually neces- 
sary to brown and heat through, or the egg will 
harden and the cakes lose their creaminess. 

TOMATOES STEWED IN BUTTER. 

Put a lump of butter the size of a large nut- 
meg into a saucepan, dredge with half a tea- 
spoonful of flour, and on this, carefully, so 
as not to displace the butter, pour two thirds 
of a cup of canned tomatoes or a full cup of 
sliced fresh tomatoes. 

Sprinkle with salt and pepper and a tea- 
spoonful of flour, cover, and cook gently twenty- 
five minutes. 



38 Catering for ^wo. 

Do not stir while cooking, and use an earthen- 
ware dish that may be sent to the table. 

Butter, flour, and tomatoes should all remain 
in separate masses, blending only at the point 
of contact. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

One solid pint of oysters. 

On the bottom of an earthen- or agate-ware 
baking-dish put a layer of whole sea-foam or 
milk crackers, liberally spread with sweet 
butter. 

Cover with a layer of oysters, then one of 
buttered whole crackers, and another layer of 
oysters. 

Pour in a half-pint of milk, sweet and rich ; 
poor milk is apt to curdle. 

Add to any liquor that remains, enough rolled 
cracker to make a paste with a tablespoonful 
of melted butter, and spread over the top of the 
oysters. 

If not enough liquor remains, use milk in- 
stead. Bake in a hot oven long enough for the 
milk to reach the boiling point ; twenty minutes 
will probably suJB&ce. 

The top should be brown. Serve in the bak- 
ing-dish. 

COLD SLAW. 
Shave the crisp inner leaves of cabbage as 



Catering tor ITwo. 39 

thinly as possible, cover with ice-water, and set 
in a cold place until wanted. 

Drain, and serve with any preferred dressing. 

LEMON MERINGUE PIE. 

Line a pie-pan of medium size with pie-crust 
and bake ; then fill with the following mixture : 

Beat the yolks of two large fresh eggs with 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar, a pinch of salt, the 
juice of a whole lemon, and the grated rind of 
half. 

Mix one even teaspoonful of corn-starch with 
a tablespoonful of melted butter and stir it 
into one cupful of boiling milk ; cook and stir 
for a minute, and when cold pour slowly over 
the egg mixture. 

Stir all together and bake in the baked crust 
about fifteen minutes. Take from the oven and 
spread over the whites of the eggs which have 
been frothed and beaten with four tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar and a tiny pinch of salt, return to 
the oven, and brown a few minutes, being care- 
ful not to burn. 

Serve cold. 

MUTTON OVEN POT-ROAST. 

Two slices, each one inch thick, from the 
middle part of the leg, either raw or cold roast. 

Trim off the outer edge of fat, put one slice 
on a meat-rack in an earthen baking-dish, dust 



40 datcrtng tor tTwo. 

with flour and pepper, and dot with butter. 
Lay the second slice on this and treat in the 
same way. Pour over half a cup of boiling 
water, cover closely, and bake in a slow oven 
two hours. Sprinkle with salt, and send to the 
table in the baking-dish, after removing the 
rack. Mint or wine sauce. 

CHERRY PUDDING (STEAMED). 

Stone a pound of cherries, put them in a deep 
quart bowl, and scatter two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and two of water over them. 

Make a crust of one cupful of flour, sifted with 
one teaspoonful of baking-powder and half a 
teaspoonful of salt, and chop with half a cupful 
of kidney suet. 

Mix with a scant half-cupful of ice-water, pat 
into shape, and lay on top of the cherries. 

Steam in a steamer one hour, and serve on a 
deep platter with rich sauce. 

The whipped-egg sauce may be used. 



VII. 

Consomme. 
Roast chicken, stuffed. 

Fried rice. 

Bscalloped tomatoes. 

Parsnips browned in butter. 

Radishes or celery. 

Currant or grape jelly. 

Lettuce or celery with French dressing, 

or 

Oyster salad. Cheese. Crackers. 

Strawberry shortcake. 

Tea or coffee. 

Nuts. Bonbons. 

C0NS0MM6. 

This is a clear soup and the basis of nearly all 
soups. 

By adding different vegetables and flavorings 
one has the tomato, julienne, rice, macaroni, etc. 

Consomme is only another term for stock or 
bouillon : it is made of meat, water, and vege- 
tables, sometimes spices, and strained through 

41 



42 Catering for Zvoo» 

a strainer set over a napkin wrung out of hot 
water. 

Take two pounds of soup-beef and a bone, 
extra. 

Soak for two hours in two quarts of cold water 
to draw out the juices. Add a sliced carrot, an 
onion, a few celery stalks, and boil slowly until 
the meat is in shreds. There should be one 
quart of liquor after straining. Season and set 
away to get cold, when skim off any fat there 
may be on top. 

Heat one cupful of this for two portions, and 
serve with small crackers. 

A few sprigs of parsley or a slice of lemon 
or a poached egg in each portion makes a 
change. 

The meat is now useless ; if soup-meat is 
wanted for food it is better to buy what is called 
a " fresh plate piece," two pounds of which will 
make a quart of soup. Wipe off the meat with 
a cloth, pour on a quart of boiling water, bring 
to a quick boil for a few minutes, then merely 
simmer on a cool part of the stove, covered, for 
four hours, or until the bones drop out. Put the 
meat on a platter, make a gravy of one cupful 
of the liquor mixed with a teaspoonful of flour, 
with pepper and salt, and pour over. 

Add vegetables and a cupful of water to the 
liquor, cook and strain, and set away for next 
day's soup. 

The vegetables may be served with the meat. 



Catering tor ^wo. 43 

ROAST CHICKEN. 

Select a fine fat yellow fowl weighing four 
or five pounds (a thin white-skinned chicken is 
apt to be tasteless and tough), and ask the 
butcher to draw it. Cut off the legs, wings, and 
neck, and put away for a fricassee. 

Rinse the body of the chicken quickly in cold 
water inside and out, wipe dry, and fill with the 
following stuffing : 

Put a quart of stale bread-crumbs into a vessel 
with a cover, pour in a cup of cold water, drain, 
and steam, covered, in a hot oven for half an 
hour. 

Then add a quarter of a teaspoonful of black 
pepper, half a teaspoonful of salt, two heaping 
teaspoon fuls of thyme, and one of chopped 
onion. Work this into a paste with a table- 
spoonful of butter. Add a few spoonfuls more 
of water if needed. 

Fill the chicken and sew up with coarse darn- 
ing-cotton. Dredge with flour and black pep- 
per, place upon a meat-rack in a deep saucepan 
or pot with a close-fitting cover, add half a cup 
of boiling water, and bake from two to four hours 
in a moderate oven. 

The time will depend on the toughness of the 
fowl. Leave off the cover the last half-hour, 
and at this time sprinkle with salt. Meanwhile 
cook the heart, liver, and gizzard half an hour 
in a cupful of boiling water. 



44 Catering tor ^wo. 

Take out the gizzard and put it with the parts 
reserved for the fricassee. 

Chop heart and liver, mix with them a table- 
spoonful of flour and half a teaspoonful of salt, 
stir into the water they boiled in, cook a few 
minutes, and add any gravy there may be in the 
roasting-pot. 

For the fricassee wipe the pieces (legs, wings, 
etc.) with a damp cloth, dredge with flour and 
black pepper, place in a stew-pan, pour on one 
and a half cups of boiling water, cover closely, 
and cook very gently from one to four hours, or 
until tender. 

When done, blend a tablespoonful of flour 
with a lump of butter the size of an egg, add 
half a cupful of boiling water, the gizzard 
chopped very fine, salt to taste, cook with the 
chicken, and serve on a deep platter. 

If the chicken is very fat, the butter will not 
be needed. 

FRIED RICE. 

Pack into a square pan two cupfuls of well- 
boiled rice. When cold, cut into inch-thick 
slices, dredge with flour, and fry brown in 
a spoonful of hot butter or salt-pork drip- 
pings. 

Serve with a lump of butter on each piece, 
and dust with black pepper. 



Catering tor ^wo. 45 

BSCAIvLOPED TOMATOES. 

Use either a small baking-dish or individual 
moulds (cups will do). Skin and slice two fine 
ripe tomatoes, and lay them in a dish with al- 
ternate layers of fine cracker-crumbs, pepper, 
salt, and bits of butter. A teaspoonful of butter 
for each tomato is about right. 

Sprinkle with cracker-crumbs and bake half 
an hour in a hot oven. Serve in the baking- 
dish. Canned tomatoes may be used, but are 
not so good as fresh ones. 

BUTTERED PARSNIPS. 

Boil in salted water until tender one fine large 
parsnip. 

Scrape and cut in halves lengthwise. 

Dredge with a little salt, flour, and pepper, 
and fry brown in a spoonful of butter. 

OYSTER SAIvAD. 

Dip six freshly opened medium-sized oysters 
in cracker-crumbs, and fry a delicate brown in 
a spoonful of hot sweet butter. 

Ivay on a plate to get cold, then cut them into 
half-inch pieces and mix with six tablespoonfuls 
of finely chopped crisp white celery. Put this 
in the salad bowl, first rubbing the inside of 
the bowl with a slice of raw onion, and set 
where it will get very cold. 



46 Catering tor ITwo. 

Just before serving make the dressing. 

Whip to a stiff froth a fourth of a cupful of 
sour cream. Beat the yolk of one egg with a 
pinch each of salt, mustard, cayenne, and 
sugar ; add one spoonful of olive-oil and then 
the whipped cream. Add more salt if neces- 
sary, and a spoonful of either lemon juice or 
cider vinegar ; the size of the spoonfuls should 
be governed by the acidity of the cream. 

Pour over the salad and serve. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Sift together half a cupful of flour, half a 
rounded teaspoonful of baking-powder, and a 
large pinch of salt. Cut into this a lump of 
table butter the size of half an egg, and add 
one fourth of a cup of milk. Spread this paste 
on a jelly-cake pan and bake fifteen or twenty 
minutes in a hot oven, or bake in muffin rings. 
Spread, when done, liberally with butter, add 
the fruit, and serve either hot or cold. 

Prepare the berries in the following way : 

An hour before dinner pick over and rinse 
quickly two cupfuls of fine juicy strawberries, 
and cover with a cupful of sugar ; set in a cool 
place until wanted. Just before the shortcake 
goes to the table, spread over it one cupful of 
mashed berries, and put on top the berries 
which have been standing in sugar. 

Serve with cream, or make a sauce as follows : 



Catering for ^wo. 47 

Boil a cupful of milk, pour it upon the yolk of 
an egg beaten with one teaspoonful of sugar, add 
a few grains of salt, and set over a boiling tea- 
kettle about two minutes, stirring constantly. 

The white of the egg may be frothed and 
added if liked. Serve hot or cold. 

Canned cherries or peaches may take the 
place of the strawberries. 



VIII. 

Broth with lemon. 

Stuffed leg of lamb. 

Potatoes with cream sauce. 

Green peas. Cape May omelette. 

Bread and butter. Grape jelly. 

Olives. 

Salad of lettuce or cabbage with a boiled 

dressing. 

Saltine crackers. Cheese. 

lyoaf cake with cut fruit. 

Berries or canned fruit. 

Tea or coffee. Nuts and cream candy. 

BROTH. 

Dredge with flour and cover with cold water 
the bone taken from a leg of lamb. Add one 
clove, an inch piece of stick cinnamon, a few 
inches of carrot, parsnip, and one onion. 

Heat slowly and boil gently until the bones 
drop apart, which will be at the end of several 
hours ; there should be a generous pint of broth 
after straining and skimming ofif the fat. 
48 



Catering tor Cwo. 49 

Add a few sprigs of parsley, salt and pepper, 
return to the pot, boil up, and serve with a thin 
slice of lemon in each portion. 

If a larger amount of broth is wanted, add a 
part of the extreme lower end of the leg to the 
bone when putting on to cook ; this also should 
be dredged with flour. One pound of meat will 
yield a pint of rich broth. 

ROAST IvAMB. 

Order a small leg of lamb, weighing about 
five pounds, boned and trimmed. From the 
large end have two slices cut for broiling, and 
put on ice for next day's breakfast. Have two 
thirds of the small end cut off also, and reserved 
for a stew ; the bone is for soup. 

The portion left is the prime part to be used 
for the roast. Pour a cupful of boiling water 
over a pint of stale bread-crumbs, and pour off 
immediately ; cover the bread closely, and set 
in a warm place to steam for about twenty-five 
minutes. 

Add a piece of butter the size of half an egg, 
a salt-spoon of salt, the same of pepper, and 
mix ; a little more water may be needed to make 
the stuffing pliable. 

Broil the meat on every side over a fierce fire, 
or fry in a smoking-hot frying-pan just long 
enough to seal up the juices ; place it on a small 
rack in a dripping-pan, and press the stuffing 



50 Catering for ^wo. 

into the cavity made by the removal of the bone. 
Cover with a piece of the sheet of fat accom- 
panying the lamb, dredge with flour, pour into 
the pan a cup of boiling water, and roast in a 
hot oven for half an hour. 

If the rack is not high enough to admit of a 
cup of water, put in less, as the water must not 
touch the meat. 

When done, dredge liberally with salt and 
pepper, and serve on a heated platter. 

Pour off the grease from the gravy in the pan, 
add a pinch of salt, and a teaspoouful of flour 
blended with a little cold water, boil up, and 
serve in a gravy-boat. 

If preferred, a mint sauce may take the place 
of the gravy, or, if mint is not at hand, a wine 
sauce. 

When either of these sweet sauces are used, 
omit the grape jelly. 

Next day the remains of the lamb may be 
sliced and made into cutlets. Dip them first 
into beaten egg, and then in bread-crumbs or 
cracker dust, and fry quickly in hot butter. 

Fry just long enough to heat thoroughly, or 
the meat will be tough and fit only for the stew- 
pot. 

For another meal, cut that which remains into 
dice, cover with boiling water, and stew one 
hour ; season with salt, and add flour and capers, 
or serve with dumplings. 

Lamb's kidneys may be added, also a table- 



Catering tor Zwo, 51 

spoonful of fried salt pork, or, in time of green 
peas, a cupful added to the gravy is a great 
improvement. 

For mint sauce, pour half a cupful of boil- 
ing water on a tablespoonful of green mint 
(chopped). Add two tablespoon fuls of sugar, 
boil up, and serve with or without a spoonful of 
vinegar. For wine sauce, melt one teaspoonful 
of grape jelly over a teakettle, add one table- 
spoonful of sherry, and serve hot. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Wash, peel, and cut in half-inch slices, two 
medium-sized potatoes, and rinse in cold water. 
Cover with boiling water, and cook gently, so as 
not to break, until a fork will pierce them easily. 
Then pour off the water, uncover for an instant, 
replace the lid, and holding it securely shake 
the pot violently up and down once. Now 
partly remove the cover, and set the pot on the 
stove for a few minutes to allow the potatoes to 
dry and become flaky. Then put them in a hot 
vegetable dish, sprinkle with salt, and pour over 
a sauce made as follows : Stir a heaping table- 
spoonful of butter to a cream, add a rounded 
dessert-spoonful of flour, a fourth of a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, beat well, and add a cupful of boiling 
milk. Boil gently, about ten minutes, adding 
a tablespoonful of finely minced parsley, and a 
dust of pepper. Serve at once. 



52 Catering for c:wo. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Peas will take from twenty to forty minutes 
to cook, according to size and age. 

Boil in two cups of boiling water, with an even 
teaspoonful of salt, three cups of peas, which 
are fresh and crisp. 

Do not wash them at all, and see that they are 
not shelled long before using. 

If the water cooks awa}-, add more from the 
boiling teakettle, just enough to keep them 
covered. 

When done, add pepper, dredge in a little 
flour, and stir in a tablespoonful of butter. 
Serve in sauce-plates. 

If preferred, they may be boiled down very 
dry, and poured around the lamb ; in which case 
a portion should be served with each plate. 

CAPE MAY OMEIyETTE. 

Pour one third of a cup of cold milk on half a 
cup of stale bread-crumbs ; if the crumbs are 
very dry, a little more milk may be required. 

Beat well one egg with half an even tea- 
spoonful of salt, a dust of pepper, and a table- 
spoonful of butter, melted. Add half a cup of 
green corn, grated, or the same amount of 
canned corn, and mix with the crumbs and 
milk. 

Bake in a buttered earthen dish in a hot oven, 



Catering tor tCwo, 53 

just long enough to set the egg and brown the 
top, from ten to fifteen minutes. 

Be careful about the quantity of milk, as too 
much will make the omelette thin, while it will 
be stiff if too little is used. 

To be right, it should be about as stiff as light 
mashed potatoes. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

Shave very fine half a pint of cabbage ; only 
the tender inner parts should be used. 

Make a dressing of the yolk of one egg beaten 
with one third of a teaspoonful of flour, the 
same of salt, and a pinch of sugar, and a dust 
of cayenne pepper. 

Add two tablespoonfuls of boiling water and 
cook and stir over a boiling teakettle until 
thick ; then add a tablespoonful of cider 
vinegar, a tablespoonful of cream or milk, and 
a teaspoonful of butter. 

Beat until cold and mix with the cabbage, or 
pour over lettuce leaves and serve in a salad 
bowl. Oil may be used instead of butter, if 
preferred. 

LOAF CAKE. 

Haifa cupful of butter, one cupful granulated 
sugar, three eggs, half a cupful of lukewarm 
water, one and a half cupfuls flour, one and a 



54 Catering for O^wo. 

half teaspoonfuls baking-powder, one teaspoon- 
ful flavoring, half a scant teaspoonful salt. 

Beat the butter to a cream with the hand, 
add the sugar, and mix until it is a creamy- 
mass. 

Add the yolks of the eggs, beating (still with 
the hand) for fully five minutes, then add by 
degrees the water. Beat from five to ten 
minutes and put in the flavoring. Measure the 
flour carefully, lifting it lightly in the cup, add 
the baking-powder and salt, and sift four times. 

Beat the flour into the ^%% mixture with a 
spoon, putting it in by degrees, about a third at 
a time. 

Beat thoroughly for five minutes, then grease 
the baking-pan ; then beat the cake again for a 
few minutes ; this alternate beating and resting 
improves it very much. 

Whisk the whites of the eggs, which have 
been standing in a cool place, and, as soon as 
they are stiff", beat up the cake batter once more 
and fold or cut them in lightly. The cake should 
only be beaten enough at this stage to mix in 
the whites of the eggs, as long beating after they 
are in always tends to make cake tough. 

Pour into a paper-lined tin (fill a little over half 
full), smooth the top evenly, and bake in a 
moderate oven from fifty to sixty minutes. In 
baking see that the fire is right before adding 
flour to the cake, and after it goes into the 
oven do not slam doors nor open' windows to 



Catering tor itwo. 55 

make a draught across the stove. A jar or 
draught will often cause cakes to fall. 

When looking into the oven, open the door 
only part way (to prevent the escape of hot air), 
and always open and close it gently. 

When the cake is done it will be a beautiful 
golden brown, slightly raised in the centre, with 
the edges fallen away from the sides of the pan. 

This cake will keep for a week in a closely 
covered stone jar and is almost equal to pound 
cake in closeness and richness. 

Do not use milk instead of water, and be 
exact in measuring everything. The butter 
should be pressed closely into the cup in order 
to get the full quantity. 

This same batter may be used for layer cake. 
Do not fill the pans quite full ; and smooth 
the top of each with a knife-blade, or the cakes 
will not be even when baked. 

Have a quick oven and turn the cakes, when 
done, upon a clean cloth, with the inverted 
pans over them so they will keep moist until 
ready for the filling, which may be either 
chocolate, jelly, or custard. 

Layer-cake batter needs but little beating 
after the flour is added. 



IX. 



Macaroni soup. 

Chicken browned in butter ; 

Giblet gravy. Currant jelly. 

Hashed potatoes with parsley. 

lyima beans. 

Bread and butter. Olives. 

Lettuce ; French dressing. 

Philadelphia cream cheese. 

Educator crackers. 

Jelly with preserved pineapple and whipped 

cream. 

Lady-fingers or sponge cake. 

Tea or coffee. Nut cream candy. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

Use stock, but if none is at hand, then, sev- 
eral hours before dinner, put into an earthen 
pot half a pound of raw chopped soup beef, a 
small bone, and a generous half-pint of cold 
water. Set on a cool part of the range for three 
hours where it will heat gradually ; then bring 

56 



Catering for ^wo. 57 

to a boil and cook gently for half an hour with 
one chopped onion, two inches of carrot, and a 
sprig of parsley. 

Strain through a soup-strainer, and again 
through a piece of old table-linen wet in cold 
water, if a clear soup is desired. If the soup 
has boiled away, add enough boiling water to 
make a generous half-pint and set away in a cold 
place. 

Half an hour before it is wanted, break into 
a cup of boiling water a heaping tablespoonful 
of macaroni and cook until tender. Remove 
the cake of fat from the soup, add one third of 
a teaspoonful of salt, a dust of pepper, a pinch 
of sugar, and one clove, heat, and pour over the 
macaroni just before serving. There should be 
a cupful and a half of soup. 

The coarse end of porter-house steak and its 
bone can be used for this soup, and also the 
ends from lamb chops. 

CHICKEN BROWNED IN BUTTER; 
GIBLET GRAVY. 

Cut wings and legs from a fine fat chicken 
weighing four or five pounds. 

Singe over a flame to burn off hairs and the 
little feathers which cannot be plucked out. 

Rinse quickly in cold water, wipe dry, and 
put into a saucepan or frying-pan in which a 
lump of butter the size of an egg is heating. 



58 Catering tor Zvoo. 

The bottom of the pan should be broad enough 
to admit of all the pieces of chicken being 
spread upon it at one time. 

Dust each piece with a little flour and pepper 
and fry delicately upon both sides for a few 
minutes : then cover the saucepan closely, set 
on a cool part of the stove where it will only 
simmer very gently, and cook from half an 
hour to two hours, according to the age of the 
fowl. 

Turn each piece occasionally and keep con- 
stant watch to see that the heat is not too great, 
as burning would impart bitterness to the gravy. 

The chicken when done should be a rich 
golden brown and so tender that the meat can 
easily be twisted apart with a fork. 

Place on a hot platter and garnish either with 
parsley or watercress. 

Do not season with salt until ready to go to 
the table. 

Stir into the saucepan one teaspoonful of flour, 
one fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, and half a 
cup of boiling water. 

Chop the heart and half of the liver, and add 
this with a little pepper. Cook gently for 
fifteen minutes and serve in a small gravy- 
boat. 

If the butter in the pan should have become 
scorched, do not use it for the gravy, but take a 
fresh supply. 

The body of the chicken can be roasted 



Catering tor ^wo, 59 

another day, using the gizzard and the other 
half of the liver for gravy. 

The grease from salt pork may be used instead 
of butter, and if the chicken is known to be 
old it may be steamed for an hour, to make it 
tender, before frying. 

HASHED POTATOES WITH MINCED 
PARSIyEY. 

Stir together in a small frying-pan one even 
dessert-spoonful of flour, one teaspoon ful of 
butter, one fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, and, 
when hot, add a third of a cup of rich milk ; 
stir constantly and cook for a minute, then add 
two even cupfuls of thinly sliced, cold, baked or 
boiled potatoes. Stir lightly so that every piece 
may be coated with the sauce, add a tablespoon- 
ful of minced parsley, and do not stir again. 
Cover and cook gently a few minutes, then dust 
with pepper and serve. 

IvIMA BEANS (DRIED.) 

Soak half a cupful of dried lima beans for 
twenty-four hours in one pint of cold water. 
Rinse thoroughly, and cook gently for two 
hours in a cup of cold water : if cooked fast 
they will break and become mushy. 

When tender, add a lump of butter the size of 
an English walnut, a quarter of a teaspoonful 



6o Catering for Zvoo, 

of salt, and a sprinkle of pepper. If too dry, 
add one or two spoonfuls of milk just before 
serving. 

LETTUCE; FRENCH DRESSING. 

Wash with care, in cold water, the tender 
inner leaves of a crisp head of lettuce. 

Shake out the water, put in a salad bowl, and 
serve with the following dressing : Mix one 
tablespoonful of real cider vinegar with three 
tablespoonfuls of olive-oil, a generous pinch of 
salt, a tiny one of red pepper, and a dust of black 
pepper. Toss the leaves about in this, being 
careful that each is well coated. 

Pass crackers and cheese with this course. 

JBIvIvY WITH PRESERVED PINEAPPLE 
AND WHIPPED CREAM. 

Soak four even teaspoonfuls of gelatine in 
two tablespoonfuls of cold water for ten minutes. 
Add the juice of half a lemon, granulated sugar 
to taste, one cup of boiling water, and four table- 
spoonfuls of juice from some canned pineapples. 

Cut into dice two slices of the pineapple and 
cook gently for fifteen minutes with two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, being careful not to let it 
burn. 

Spread this on the bottom of a glass dish, 
and pour the gelatine mixture over it. 

When ice-cold and hard, heap on top four 



Catering tor ^wo, 6i 

tablespoonfuls of cream, whicli have been 
whipped with one teaspoonful of confectioner's 
sugar. 

In warm weather use three tablespoonfuls 
less water in the jelly. 



X. 

Pur^e of green peas. 

Veal pot-pie (raised crust). 

Cauliflower fritters. 

Baked tomatoes. 

Bread and butter. Olives. 

Green corn on the cob. 

Lemon pudding. 

Tea or coffee. Chocolate creams. 

PUR^E OF GREEN PEAS. 

Barely cover with boiling water one cup- 
ful of fresh green peas, adding more from the 
boiling teakettle as the peas become dry. 

When tender, press through a coarse sieve or 
mash very fine, add two scant cupfuls of boil- 
ing milk, and to this a teaspoonful of butter 
blended with one of flour. Boil a few minutes, 
add salt to taste, a dust of pepper, strain if 
lumpy, and serve with small squares of bread 
browned in the oven. 

62 



Catering tor Zvoo. 63 

VEAL POT-PIE. (YEAST CRUST.) 

Put one pound of stewing veal lightly 
dredged with flour into one pint of boiling 
water. Add two tablespoonfuls of chopped salt 
pork fried a rich brown (not the grease) and a 
piece of red pepper pod the size of a thumb- 
nail or a pinch of cayenne. Cover the pot and 
stew gently for three hours, then add a dessert- 
spoonful of flour and an even teaspoonful of 
salt to half a cupful of melted butter, stir well, 
and mix with the veal. 

Boil a few minutes, add a half-cup of boiling 
water, stir and boil up, then set away until next 
day in a very cold place. 

Veal is always improved by standing a day 
in its juices, being sweeter and firmer. 

Six hours before dinner mix the sponge for 
the crust. 

Take a half-teaspoonful of salt, the same 
of sugar, a half-cup of warm water, a half- 
teaspoonful of butter, and one fourth of a 
yeast-cake. Melt and mix all together and 
stir in one cupful of flour sifted after measur- 
ing. 

Let it rise to double its bulk in a temperature 
of about ninety degrees : this will take about 
three hours. Make into biscuits by rolling 
small pieces between the floured palms, and 
set to rise again in the same temperature, 
always keeping the vessel closely covered. 



64 CatcriiiQ tor Zvoo, 

At the end of this time the rolls should have 
become three times the original size and are 
now ready for the steamer : steam one hour : 
break apart, place on a deep platter, and 
pour the stew (which has been getting hot 
but not cooking for the past half-hour) over 
them. 

If more gravy is needed, melt and brown 
slightly one tablespoon ful of butter, add a 
teaspoonful of flour, a little salt and pepper, 
and half a cup of boiling water. Lamb may be 
used instead of veal, and should be cooked in 
the same way. 

Get stewing lamb, and remove the fat, if 
there is any, before cooking. 

Buy large, old veal. 

CAULIFLOWER FRITTERS. 

Boil for twenty minutes in boiling salted 
water three cupfuls of cauliflower. 

Take from the fire, mash fine with a fork, 
add a tablespoonful of butter, and form into 
little flat cakes. When cold, dip them in a 
batter made of beaten egg, a pinch of salt, a v. 
tablespoonful of milk, and a teaspoonful of 
flour. 

Fry to a light brown in a spoonful of hot 
butter, or, if preferred, in salt-pork drippings. 
Cook the fritters the last thing, as they should 
be served at once. 



Catering for Zvoo 65 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Skin ripe tomatoes by pouring boiling water 
over them to cover. 

Place them in an earthenware dish, put on 
each tomato a walnut of butter, a large pinch 
of salt, and a dust of pepper, and dredge with 
flour. Cover the dish closely and bake in a 
moderately hot oven from one and a half to 
two hours or longer, according to the size and 
ripeness of the tomatoes. 

Remove the cover and bake fifteen minutes 
to half an hour longer. If there is any juice at 
this time, dip it out of the dish, and add to it 
butter, flour, and salt enough to make a rich 
sauce ; pour this over the tomatoes and serve 
hot in the baking-dish. 

If there is no juice (which will be the case if 
the tomatoes are not particularly fine and ripe, 
or if they have cooked in an oven that is too 
hot or too cool), make a sauce of butter and 
flour stirred smooth with a little boiling water 
added. 

Each tomato of medium size will require 
half a teaspoonful of butter, the same of flour, 
and two dessert-spoonfuls of boiling water, with 
a pinch each of salt and pepper. 

The tomatoes when done should be soft and 
juicy but not broken. They may be browned 
by sprinkling with bread crumbs and holding 
over them a hot stove-lid. 



66 Catertng tor ^wo 

GREEN CORN ON THE COB. 

Strip the husks and silk from two ears of 
freshly pulled corn. 

The sooner corn is eaten after being gathered, 
the sweeter it is. 

Steam in a steamer for twenty minutes, or 
boil ten minutes. 

In either case serve soon, each ear wrapped 
in a small napkin. 

To roast, lay on a gridiron over a clear but 
not fierce fire, turning over a little at a time as 
the surface becomes browned : time about 
twenty-five minutes. Wrap in a napkin and eat 
with butter, salt, and pepper the same as boiled 
corn. The napkin is used to protect the fingers 
from the heat. Serve as a separate course. 

LEMON PUDDING (MERINGUE). 

Heat two thirds of a cup of rich milk, add an 
even tablespoonful of sugar, and the same of 
melted butter. Pour this over a cupful of bread 
crumbs, two days old, freed from crust, and, 
without stirring, set it on the stove to keep hot, 
but not to cook, while the yolk of an egg is be- 
ing beaten with an even tablespoonful of sugar, 
the grated rind of a quarter of a lemon, and the 
juice of a fourth of it. 

Add a pinch of salt, stir, and then pour in 
one third of a cupful of cold milk. 



Catering tor q;wo 67 

Pour this over the bread, and bake in a hot 
oven a few minutes. 

Whip the white of the egg to a stiff froth, add 
the j uice from one fourth of the lemon with one 
third of a cupful of sugar, spread over the hot 
pudding, and brown in the oven from eight to 
ten minutes. 

Serve cold the day it is made. 

The dish must be a third larger than the pud- 
ding to prevent the meringue from overflowing. 



BAKED MEAT PIE. 

The preceding dinner may be varied by serv- 
ing a meat pie instead of the veal pot-pie, in 
which case a strawberry jelly may take the 
place of the lemon meringue. 

For the meat pie, use any meat from roast or 
poultry, and if it is not perfectly tender dredge 
it (one cupful) with flour, barely cover with boil- 
ing water, and simmer from one to three hours, 
or fry it in a closely covered saucepan, just al- 
lowing it to simmer (using a thin slice of fat 
salt pork in the bottom of the pan to furnish 
fat) for the same length of time. 

Put the meat, cut into dice, in a deep baking- 
dish, fill up with gravy, cover with the follow- 
ing crust, and bake half an hour in a hot 
oven. 

Take half a cupful of flour, sift it with half a 



68 Catering tor ^wo, 

teaspoonful of baking-powder, a salt-spoonful 
of salt, and chop with it a lump of suet the size 
of a hen's egg. 

Mix in four tablespoonfuls of ice-cold water, 
roll out very light!}-, place lightly on top of the 
meat, and get it into the oven as quickly as 
possible. 

If no gravy remained from the roast, make 
some after directions previously given. 

STRAWBERRY JKIvLY. 

Soak for half an hour three tablespoonfuls of 
gelatine in one cup of cold water, with the juice 
of a quarter of a lemon. Stem and mash a quart 
box of juicy strawberries and strain through a 
coarse cloth wrung out of cold water : squeeze 
out all the juice possible. Add five tablespoon- 
fuls of confectioner's sugar, a few grains of salt, 
and set the gelatine on the stove, stirring until 
it is all melted. 

Then add the strawberry juice and taste to see 
if more sugar or lemon is needed. 

When cold, but before it stiffens, whip with 
an egg-beater until nothing is visible but a 
froth : this will take from ten minutes to half 
an hour. Now add the frothed white of an egg, 
whip a few minutes longer, and set on ice for 
several hours in the dish in which it is to be 
served. 



Catering tor ^wo, 69 

Whipped cream is an addition to this jelly 
but it is very nice without. 

To be right, one third should be a rose col- 
ored foam, resting upon a clear rose jelly. 

Currant juice may be used instead of lemon. 



XI. 

split-pea soup. 

Pot roast, top sirloin. 

Mashed potatoes. 

Tomatoes on toast. 

Watercress. Bread and butter. 

Tapioca pudding. 

Hard sauce. 

Tea or coffee. 

Dates. English walnuts. 



Serve cresses with the meat, or, if preferred, 
in a separate course with crackers and cheese. 

SPLIT-PKA SOUP. 

Wash half a cupful of split peas and soak 
them over night in a quart of cold water. 

About noon put them, with the water they 
have soaked in, on a cool part of the stove, add 
two tablespoon fuls of chopped salt pork, fried 
brown (do not use the grease), a half-cupful of 
tomatoes, a few sprigs of parsely and celery 

70 



Caterina tor ^wo. 71 

stalks, and one onion, one small turnip, and a 
medium-sized carrot chopped fine. 

Heat gradually and cook slowly until the 
peas are a mush, which will take several hours. 
Then add one half of the gravy from the pot 
roast, boil a few minutes, and strain through a 
soup-strainer. There should be a quart of soup. 
If the liquor has boiled away, add boiling water 
to the pot, cook a little longer, and strain. Salt 
and pepper to taste and serve with small oyster- 
crackers. 

This quantity is enough for two meals. That 
which is left can be warmed up with a few 
spoonfuls of milk to thin it. Heat milk and 
soup in separate vessels and put together after 
taking from the fire. Add a little salt and some 
minced parsley. 

POT-ROAST. 
Top Sirloin (Two Pounds). 

Trim off all the dried outer edges and brown 
on all sides in a hot spider over a hot fire to 
seal up the juices. 

Dredge plentifully with flour and place the 
meat on a layer of thin slices of salt pork, or 
suet if preferred. Use an agate-ware pot and 
keep the meat closely covered so that the steam 
will not escape. 

Set on a hot part of the stove until the fat 



72 Catering for tTwo, 

begins to fry vigorously, then place where it 
will only simmer. 

Cook for two hours and a half, being careful 
that it does not burn. Suet especially is most 
disagreeable when burned, making the gravy 
quite unfit for use. 

Be sure that the salt pork is fresh and sweet, 
as otherwise the dish will be ruined. 

When done, take out the meat, dust it liber- 
ally with salt and a little pepper, and put it on 
a dish which can be covered, so that it will keep 
moist until ready to serve. 

After taking out the pork, skim the fat from 
the gravy and put half of it in the soup as di- 
rected. Add to the remaining half a teaspoon- 
ful of flour mixed with a spoonful of cold water 
and a half-cupful of boiling water, salt to taste, 
and boil five minutes. If lumpy, strain through 
a wire strainer. 

In serving the roast be sure to cut across the 
grain, and always observe the same rule when 
cutting meat for stews or pies, or to serve cold, 
sliced. 

A delicious pie may be made from the re- 
mains of this roast for the following day. Cut 
up a heaping cupful of the meat into dice and 
put it into a small, deep pie-dish. Make a 
gravy of one heaping tablespoonful of butter, 
a tablespoonful of flour, half a teaspoonful of 
salt, pepper, and a cupful of boiling water. 
(Brown the butter before adding the other 



Catering tor ^wo. 73 

ingredients.) Pour this gravy over the meat, 
place on top a crust which has been previously 
baked, and set in the oven for fifteen or twenty 
minutes. Make the crust of one half cup of 
flour sifted with one fourth of a teaspoonful of 
salt, one fourth of a cup of lard (solid and cold), 
and two tablespoon fuls of ice-water. Roll out 
an eighth of an inch thick, spread on half a 
teaspoonful of butter,, dust with flour, fold up 
into a ball and roll out again to the size and 
shape of the baking-dish, slash it once or twice, 
and bake in a hot oven. Handle the dough as 
little and as lightly as possible ; have the hands 
cool and work quickly. The crust may be 
baked at any time so as to be in readiness when 
wanted. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Wash, peel, and cook in enough boiling water 
to cover, three medium-sized potatoes. 

When done a fork will pierce to the heart 
without resistance. Potatoes boil more quickly 
if cut in halves, but if small they do not need 
to be cut ; try to have them of uniform size. 

Drain off" the water, take the lid off for a 
moment, slip it back, and, holding the pot 
and lid firmly together, shake up and down 
twice violently. This forces the steam to escape 
and makes the potatoes mealy, if it is possible 
for them to be so. Now pass through the potato 



74 Catering for tlwo, 

press or mash thoroughly, until every lump dis- 
appears. 

Add one third of a teaspoonful of salt, one 
teaspoonful of butter, and three tablespoonfuls 
of boiling milk. 

Whip with a fork for two minutes and if not 
creamy enough add another spoonful of hot 
milk. 

If too much milk is used the potatoes will be 
thin, if too little, they will not be creamy. 

If possible use cream instead of milk. 

Heap in a vegetable dish, put on top a lump 
of butter the size of a walnut, dust with pepper, 
and set in the oven until wanted for the table. 

TOMATOES ON TOAST. 

Skin two solid, ripe tomatoes, slice, dredge 
with flour, salt and pepper, and fry slowly in a 
teaspoonful of hot butter ; they should be done 
in about ten minutes. Ivift out carefully with 
a cake-turner and lay upon a thin slice of deli- 
cately toasted bread which has been freed from 
crust. 

Add to the gravy in the pan an even table- 
spoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of flour, and 
two spoonfuls of milk or cream ; cook a few 
minutes, salt and pepper lightly, pour over the 
tomatoes and toast, and serve. 

If canned tomatoes are used, put a tablespoon- 
ful of butter in small lumps in the bottom of a 



catering for ^wo, 75 

saucepan, dredge lightly with flour, and pour 
over a scant cupful of canned tomatoes. 

Add one fourth of a teaspoon ful of salt, a 
dust of pepper and another sprinkling of flour, 
cover, and stew gently half an hour or longer 
without stirring. Pour over toast, and serve. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING (BAKED). 

Soak over night one even gill of flake tapioca 
in one cupful of cold water. An hour before 
dinner add half a cupful of cold milk, and heat 
gradually. 

Beat up one egg with one tablespoon ful of 
sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt, the grated rind 
of one third of a lemon, and pour upon this a 
half-cupful of boiling milk, stir well, and add 
to the tapioca. 

Bake in a moderate oven about fifteen min- 
utes ; long cooking makes tapioca tough. 

Serve hot with a sauce made of one scant 
cupful of confectioner's sugar, stirred with a 
lump of butter the size of a small egg and one 
teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

The longer and harder this sauce is beaten 
the creamier it will be. 

A gill measures one half of a cup. Be care- 
ful to have the measure exact, as too much 
tapioca will make the pudding stiff, and too 
much milk and water will make it insipid. 



XII. 

Celery soup. 

Loin of lamb chops (broiled). 

Baked potatoes. 

Ivemon marmalade. 

Salted almonds. 

Pot-cheese. Saltine crackers. 

Watercress or celery. 

Fruit dumplings (baked). 

Liquid and hard sauce. 

Tea or coffee. 

Mixed nuts and raisins. 

Any preferred table water. 

Claret or cider. 

CELERY SOUP. 

This soup is made from white stock of mut- 
ton, veal, or chicken. The long stringy ends 
from loin of lamb or mutton chops can be 
used to advantage here, and four chops with 
the bones will generally yield sufficient for two 
people. 

76 



Caterlncj tor ^wo. 77 

Free the meat from fat and chop fine in a 
chopping-bowl ; it must be raw, and should 
measure a cupful. Dredge with a tablespoon- 
ful of flour, and put it into an agate-ware pot 
having a close-fitting cover. 

Add the bones, pour over a pint of cold water, 
and let it soak an hour or longer before putting 
on to cook. 

Heat gradually, and let simmer, closely cov- 
ered, for several hours. When done, the bones 
will drop apart, and the meat will slip from 
them. 

Now add a cupful of celery stalks and roots, 
chopped fine, and a tablespoonful of onion 
juice, and cook an hour or a little less ; strain 
through a soup-strainer, add three tablespoon- 
fuls sweet cream, boil up, salt and pepper to 
taste, and serve in cups. Pass the salted crack- 
ers known as "Banquets." There should be, 
when the soup is done, three fourths of a pint ; 
if cooked so fast as to cook away, add a little 
boiling water. Use milk in the absence of 
cream, and thicken with a teaspoonful of flour 
blended with the same quantity of butter. 

This substitute does not equal rich cream, 
but it will serve if necessary. 

LAMB CHOPS (BROILED). 

Order four fine lamb chops from the loin, lay 
them on a meat-board, and with a small, sharp 



78 Catering tor tTwo. 

knife cut out the bone from each one, careful 
not to spoil the shape of the chops. 

Cut away carefully the long stringy ends, but 
leave the border of fat and the outer pink skin 
intact. Scrape from the bone the tiny roll of 
marrow, put it in the chop, press together gen- 
tly, and wrap the long strip of fat around the 
whole, pinning securely with a small wooden 
skewer or a long clinch-nail. 

You now have a round, compact chop, encir- 
cled with a border of delicious fat. The ends 
and bones are to be used for celery soup. 

If but two chops are required for dinner, the 
others may be kept in the ice-chest and served, 
with a slice of lemon, for next morning's break- 
fast. 

In broiling, observe the directions with the 
rule for serving porter-house steak. 

Chops an inch in thickness will take about 
ten minutes to cook. 

Count one hundred and fifty, turn ; then 
count the same number for the other side. Now 
count ten, turn, and keep on in this way until 
four hundred has been counted. 

Test by cutting into one of the chops, and if 
the meat looks red and raw return to the fire 
for a few more turns, counting five between 
each turn. 

This constant turning prevents burning and 
over-cooking. 

Take out the skewers, and put the chops on 



Catering tor ^wo. 79 

warm, but not hot, plates, with a piece of but- 
ter, salt, and a spring of parsley or cress on 
each. 

Broiled meats must be served immediately to 
be at their best. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Select six potatoes, all of one size and as free 
from blemishes as possible. 

Wash thoroughly in several waters, cut a 
small strip of skin from each end, and bake in a 
hot oven from thirty to sixty minutes. 

The time required depends upon the size, 
age, and quality of the potatoes and the heat of 
the oven. Test occasionally with a fork, and 
when done puncture them all over to enable 
the steam to escape : this makes them light and 
mealy. 

Keep hot in the open oven, uncovered, until 
ready to serve. 

Peel those which are left over, slice, and warm 
up with white sauce for another meal. 

LEMON MARMALADE. 

Put the rind of a lemon on the stove to boil 
for half an hour in a pint of cold water. Drain 
(throw away the water) and chop very fine, add- 
ing also the lemon pulp, which should be freed 
from seeds, and a cupful of fresh water. Return 



8o Catering tor ^wo. 

to the fire and cook gently until the rind is very- 
soft, about an hour : add a cupful of sugar and 
cook fifteen or twenty minutes longer, stirring 
occasionally to prevent burning. When skim- 
ming take off only the fine yellow froth gath- 
ered in little patches here and there. 

When cool, put in a glass dish for the table. 

This marmalade may be boiled down very 
thick, when it will keep in a dry place for 
months. Put in tumblers with brandied paper 
over the top the same as jellies. 

SAIvTBD AIvMONDS. 

These may be purchased at the confectioner's 
but can easily be done at home by any one with 
suflBcient leisure. 

Blanch the almonds by pouring boiling water 
over them ; the skins will slip off readily in a 
few minutes. 

Then coat them with melted butter or olive- 
oil — a teaspoonful of oil to a cupful of nuts will 
be about right ; spread on an agate-ware dish 
and brown in a hot oven. 

They will need close watching and stirring to 
prevent burning. Sprinkle with salt while 
roasting. 

Salted almonds are passed between the courses 
as an appetizer. 



Catering tor ^wo. 8i 

POT-CHBESE WITH WATERCRESSES. 

Take half a cupful of fine fresh pot-cheese, 
add salt to taste, and as much sweet butter and 
cream as will be needed to make a soft, pliable 
mass ; butter size of an egg will generally be 
enough. Work this together with a four-tined 
fork and afterwards with a broad-bladed knife 
until thoroughly incorporated, then smooth 
into a round mound, and garnish with water- 
cresses. 

Do not add the cream until the butter and 
cheese are thoroughly mixed together. 

Pass saltine crackers. 

If this is made a separate course, use little 
cheese-plates, and pass any candied fruit pre- 
ferred, cherries or plums, ginger or pineapple. 

FRUIT DUMPLINGS (BAKED). 

Rub together a heaping dessert-spoonful of 
sweet butter with an even half-cupful of flour 
sifted with half a teaspoonful of baking-powder 
and one third of a teaspoonful of salt. Add 
three even tablespoonfuls of cold water and 
mix lightly with a spoon. Divide into halves, 
form each in a ball, lay on a floured board, and 
roll out lightly and quickly to the size of a large 
saucer. Put into the middle of each round, half 
of a fine winter greening (sliced), add a table- 
spoonful of sugar, a dust of flour, and a small 
lump of butter, and bring the paste up to the 

6 



82 Catering tor ^wo. 

top and pinch it into ball shape, leaving a half- 
inch opening at the top for the steam to escape. 

Bake in deep saucers, well buttered, for half 
an hour in a hot oven. Serve hot with sauce 
made of one even tablespoonful of flour with 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar and one tablespoon- 
ful of butter. Add a pinch of salt, stir until 
creamy, and then add a cupful of boiling water. 
Cook several minutes, and just before serving 
add flavoring of vanilla, wine, or brandy. 

For the hard sauce, cream a dessert-spoonful 
of butter, add two thirds of a cup of confection- 
er's sugar, and a teaspoonful of water if neces- 
sary to make it soft and creamy. Stir at least 
ten minutes and grate nutmeg over it. 

Peaches, fresh or canned, or cherries, pitted, 
may be substituted for the apples, if preferred. 



XIII. 

Tomato cream pur^e. 

Pork chops or tenderloin. Cream gravy. 

Browned sweet potatoes, or turnips browned in 

butter. 

Hot apple sauce. 

Bread and butter. 

Celery. Water crackers. Cheese. 

Preserved citron. 

Tapioca meringue. 

Tea or coffee. Salted almonds. 

TOMATO CREAM PUR^E. 

Fry a slice of salt pork, half an inch thick, 
until brown and put it, without the grease, into 
a saucepan with one cupful of tomatoes ; boil 
gently half an hour, then strain through a coarse 
sieve and put back upon the stove while the 
dumplings are being prepared, thus : 

Rub together half a teaspoonful of butter 
with two rounded tablespoonfuls of prepared 
flour, add a pinch of salt, and mix with the 

83 



84 Catering tor Zwo, 

yolk of one egg beaten with a tablespoonful of 
milk. Mould into ten flat cakes, put them into 
the boiling tomatoes, cover, and cook two min- 
utes ; then add a cupful of rich, creamy milk in 
which has been boiled a teaspoonful of butter 
mixed with a teaspoonful of flour, and a piece 
of soda the size of a pea. 

Take from the fire immediately, season to 
taste, and serve. 

PORK TENDERLOIN OR FRIED PORK 
CHOPS. (TWO RIBS OF FRESH PORK.) 

Have the chops cut from the prime part of 
the meat about an inch in thickness. Heat a 
spider smoking hot so as to brown the chops 
instantly when they go in. 

Cover and fry rapidly for a minute, turn and 
fry the other side, then remove to a cooler 
part of the stove and cook each side ten 
minutes. 

Pork should always be cooked slowly and 
thoroughly. 

Put the chops on a platter, season, and set in 
the oven to keep hot. 

Put a level teaspoonful of flour into the spi- 
der with a salt-spoonful of salt and a dust of 
pepper, stir the grease and brown sediment well 
into the flour, cook a moment, and add half a 
cupful of good, rich milk ; stir till it is a smooth, 
creamy gravy and pour over the chops. 



Catering tor ^wo. 85 

Pork tenderloins should be cut in pieces of 
uniform size, and a quarter of a pound of fresh 
fat pork should be allowed for each one. Make 
gravy as directed for the chops. 

APPLE SAUCK (HOT). 

Pare, quarter, and core four medium-sized 
Rhode Island Greening or Baldwin apples, put 
them in an earthen or agate dish with a close 
cover, pour on six tablespoonfuls of boiling 
water and six tablespoonfuls of granulated su- 
gar. Cook rapidly ten minutes, then remove 
to a part of the stove where they will cook 
gently for an hour. Do not stir, and keep con- 
stantly covered. Be careful not to burn, but if 
they color a fine golden brown the flavor will 
be improved. 

SWEET POTATOES BROWNED IN 
THE OVEN. 

Wash two medium-sized sweet potatoes and 
cook either in boiling water or steam in a 
steamer ; time from twenty to forty minutes. 

Scrape off the skins with a knife, holding the 
potatoes in a napkin during the process. 

Slice once lengthwise, sprinkle with sugar 
and a little butter, and brown in a quick oven. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 



86 Catering tor Zvoo. 

TURNIPS BROWNED IN BUTTER. 

Slice very thin two boiled white turnips, and 
dust them with flour, salt, and pepper. 

Heat a tablespoonful of butter and one of 
milk, and fry the slices in this until a delicate 
brown. Only a moderate heat is required, as 
butter burns quickly. 

The milk produces a fine crust. 

TAPIOCA MERINGUE. 

Scald a pint of rich fresh milk, and when 
cold soak a half-cupful of flake tapioca in it 
over night ; in warm weather keep it in the re- 
frigerator. 

The next morning add the yolks of two eggs 
beaten with one heaping tablespoonful of gran- 
ulated sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt, and the 
grated rind of nearly half a lemon. Bake half 
an hour in a moderate oven in a deep dish. 

Whisk the whites of the eggs to a froth, add 
the juice of half of the lemon and two thirds 
of a cupful of sugar, spread over the top of the 
pudding, and brown a few minutes in the oven. 

Serve cold. 



XIV. 

Ox-tail soup. 

Roast veal, stuffed. 

Rice croquettes. Mashed squash. 

or 

Boiled onions. Drawn butter. 

Rhubarb sauce (cold). 

Bread and butter. 

Asparagus on toast. 

Wine jelly. Macaroons. 

Tea or coffee. 

Crystallized fruit. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Order a fresh ox-tail jointed. 

Wash in cold water and put it into a porce- 
lain or agate kettle. 

Pour on five quarts of cold water and after 
soaking for two hours bring gradually to a boil 
and simmer until the meat drops from the 
bones. Add a chopped carrot, a leek, several 
stalks of celery, some parsley, and a cupful of 
tomatoes. When these are soft, strain the soup 
and set it away to get cold : there should be a 

87 



88 Catering tor tTwo. 

quart. Next day skim off the fat, put the soup 
over the fire, and, when hot, add a teaspoonful 
of salt, a tablespoonful of browned flour, half a 
teaspoonful of mixed spices (cloves, allspice, 
cinnamon, and nutmeg), a pinch of cayenne, 
and half a teaspoonful of sugar. 

Sealed up hot in a glass preserving-jar, this 
soup will keep for two weeks in cold weather. 

Use one cupful for two people, and add a few 
spoonfuls of water when re-heating it. 

ROAST VEAL, STUFFED. 

Cut the edges of a veal cutlet (to prevent 
curling) weighing about a pound and a half 

Pepper lightly and sprinkle over it about a 
quarter of a teaspoonful of thyme. Dredge with 
flour, put a bread-and-butter stuffing on one 
half, fold the other half over it, and lay the veal 
on a thin slice of fresh fat pork, on a deep 
earthen dish, cover tightly, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven for two hours. 

Remove the veal to another dish, sprinkle 
with salt and browned bread crumbs, and return 
to the oven for a few minutes. 

Add a little flour and water to the sediment 
in the baking-dish, salt to taste, boil up, and 
pour around the veal. 

STEWED RHUBARB. 
Make a syrup of one and a half cupfuls of 



Catering tor Cwo. 89 

boiling water and one heaping cup of sugar: 
boil for a few minutes and add three cupfuls of 
rhubarb, skinned and cut into inch pieces. Do 
not skim the rhubarb, as much of the richness is 
lost in this way. 

Stir for a minute, cover closely, and do not 
stir again. Simmer for fifteen minutes, and 
when cold pour carefully, so as not to break the 
pieces, into a dish for the table. 

Each piece should lie by itself, surrounded by 
the rich syrup. 

Rhubarb becomes very acid late in the sea- 
son, when it would be well to make an extra 
quantity of syrup, which might be passed when 
serving the dish. One cup of sugar to half a 
cup of water is right proportion for the syrup. 

RICH CROQUETTES. 

Boil for half an hour, in a covered saucepan, 
a scant half-cupful of rice in one pint of boiling 
water, with half a teaspoonful of salt. 

Make into oblong rolls the size of a hen's egg 
before the rice becomes entirely cold, and set 
away. When cold, dip each into a batter made 
of an egg beaten with a tablespoonful of flour, 
one of melted butter, and one of milk. Fry in a 
tablespoonful of salt-pork drippings or butter, 
turning frequently so that all sides will be deli- 
cately browned. 

Some cooks prefer deep fat for frying cro- 



90 Catering tor ^wo. 

quettes. In this case, use a frying-basket, see 
that the fat is smoking hot, and lay the cro- 
quettes, when done, on brown paper, or, better 
still, on a piece of soft linen. Old table-linen 
when good for nothing else is of use here, but 
it must be kept scrupulously clean. 

MASHED SQUASH. 

Cut from a fine Hubbard squash enough to 
fill a pint bowl heaping full. Remove the seeds 
and soft part, peel, and cook in a steamer until 
very tender. 

Mash fine, stir in one fourth of a teaspoonful 
of salt and one of butter, heap smoothly in a 
vegetable dish, pepper lightly, and put in the 
centre a lump of butter the size of an English 
walnut. 

If summer squash is used, steam whole and 
mash seeds and skin. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Peel and boil in boiling salted water, four 
medium-sized white onions ; time, about thirty- 
five to forty minutes. 

Take out with a skimmer, drain, and pour 
over them a sauce made in this way : 

Stir to a cream a dessert-spoonful of butter, 
add one of flour, one third of a teaspoonful of 
salt, and, slowly, one third of a cupful of boil- 



Catering for XLvco. 91 

ing milk, stirring constantly until smooth : 
cook a few minutes. 

If preferred, the onions may be served with a 
simple dressing of salt and pepper, with a small 
lump of butter in each onion. 

ASPARAGUS ON TOAST. 

Get large-sized white asparagus ; Oyster Bay 
is considered fine. 

Remove the string, put in a pan of cold water, 
and rinse well to get out the grit. Tie together 
loosely with a broad band of muslin (or lay in 
the frame of an asparagus boiler) so that it may 
be lifted out easily when done. Pour on about 
a quart of boiling water with half a teaspoon ful 
of salt, and cook gently, but steadily, for twenty 
minutes. Reserve, when done, a dozen stalks 
for next day's salad. 

Lay the asparagus on a platter with the heads 
on two slices of well-toasted bread which have 
been slightly moistened with asparagus water. 
Make a sauce of one dessert-spoonful of butter, 
one of flour, a pinch of salt, dust of pepper, 
and one third of a cupful of the water the as- 
paragus boiled in : cook a few minutes and pour 
over. 

Serve as a separate course in place of a salad. 

WINK JELLY. 
Soak for ten minutes, four rounded teaspoon- 



92 Catering tor Zvoo, 

fuls of gelatine in two tablespoonfuls of cold 
water. Add a pinch of cinnamon, three heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, a few 
grains of salt, one even cup of boiling water, 
and stir well together. When cool, add five 
tablespoonfuls of sherry, cover closely to keep 
in the flavor of the wine, and set on ice to 
harden. 

In hot weather use five teaspoon fuls of gela- 
tine and make the day before it is wanted. 



XV. 

Boiled fish. 

HoUandaise sauce. 

Cucumbers or pickled cabbage. 

Beef d la mode. 

French fried potatoes. 

Succotash. Preserved grapes. 

Lettuce 

or 

Apple salad. 

Crackers. Cheese. 

Prune pudding. 
Tea or coffee. Nuts. 
Crystallized ginger. 

BOILED FISH. 

Wash the fish quickly in cold water and wipe 
dry. 

Dredge lightly with flour and pepper, roll in a 
napkin, place in a quart of boiling water to 
which has been added a little salt and a spoon- 
ful of vinegar, and cook, allowing about ten 

93 



94 Catering tor ^wo. 

mintues to the pound for fresh fish. Salt, and 
serve on a platter garnished with parsley. 

Any fish which remains may be made into a 
salad or into cakes and warmed in a steamer for 
next day. 

HOIvIvANDAISB SAUCE. 

Put into a saucepan which fits into the tea- 
kettle, a tablespoonful of butter ; whip into it 
the yolk of an egg, add a pinch of salt and 
cayenne, two tablespoonfuls of boiling water, 
and a teaspoonful of cider vinegar. 

Cook and stir until it is a little thick. 

A few drops of lemon juice may be added. 
See that it is very hot, and keep the vessel cov- 
ered to prevent a crust forming. 

Serve a portion with each plate of fish. 

BEEF A LA MODE. 
(Top sirloin, one pound.) 

Dredge a pound of top sirloin with a table- 
spoonful of flour and a dust of pepper, roll up, 
and put in a pot with a cupful of tomatoes. 
Add a tablespoonful of chopped salt pork (fried 
to extract the grease), pepper, dredge again 
with flour, cover closely, and bake four hours 
in a slow oven. 

Serve the meat on a deep platter and pour 
the gravy (salted) over it. 

The " Universal Pot " is best for this dish. 



Catering tor g:wo, 95 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

Wash and peel three potatoes, each the size of 
an egg, quarter them lengthwise, soak in cold 
water a few minutes, wipe dry, and fry in hot 
lard in a frying-basket. 

Salt and pepper and serve hot. 

If preferred the potatoes may be fried in a 
spider in a spoonful of hot pork drippings : 
keep the cover on until they are done, turning 
as the underside becomes brown. 

Then remove the cover and allow them to 
get crisp. Serve at once. 

SUCCOTASH. 

A half-cupful of corn, either grated or canned, 
a half-cupful of cooked beans, salt and pepper 
to taste, and enough milk to make it a little 
juicy : add also a teaspoonful of flour and a 
heaping tablespoonful of butter. Stir, boil up 
and serve ; long cooking toughens com. 

If string-beans are used, cut them into inch 
pieces and cook until tender in just enough 
salted water to cover : if lima beans, cook these 
also until done, or if they have been dried, soak 
twenty-four hours in cold water and then cook 
before adding. 

APPIvE SAIvAD. 

Chop fine or slice in very thin slices a juicy 
Greening or Baldwin apple. 



96 Catering for q;wo. 

Add an equal amount of crisp white celery, a 
pinch each of salt and mustard and pepper, 
and finally two tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar. 
Stir and cover closely in a cold place for half an 
hour. 

A few minutes before serving pour over the 
following dressing : 

Stir together the yolk of an egg, a pinch of 
salt, one of sugar, a dust of cayenne, and add, 
drop by drop, two spoonfuls of olive-oil or 
melted butter. 

The bowl may be rubbed with a slice of onion 
if that flavor is liked. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

Rinse one scant cupful of prunes in cold 
water, pour on them one cupful of boiling 
water, add a scant cupful of granulated sugar, 
the grated rind and juice of a quarter of a 
lemon, and cook gently four or five hours, 
covered closely, in an earthern dish. 

About three hours before dinner, melt a 
rounded tablespoonful of sweet butter in a cup 
nearly full of lukewarm milk which has been 
scalded. 

Add half a compressed yeast-cake, one table- 
spoonful of sugar, one level teaspoonful of salt, 
and when these are dissolved, a well-beaten egg. 

Beat and add two cupfuls of flour, sifted be- 
fore measuring. 



Catering for Zvoo. 97 

Stir thoroughly and set to rise, covered, iu a 
temperature of about 90 degrees. 

At the expiration of an hour, stir, and pour 
one third of the batter over the prunes, which 
have been taken out of the syrup and placed 
close together in an earthen pudding-dish (they 
should be cooled). 

Sprinkle over the top of the batter a table- 
spoonful of sugar and grate on a little lemon 
rind, cover closely with a high cover (to give 
room for the batter to rise), and set for another 
hour in a warm place (90 degrees). 

Bake in a moderate oven twenty or twenty- 
five minutes, uncovered. Serve hot with a 
sauce made from the juice of the prunes as 
follows : 

Mix together one dessert-spoonful of butter, 
one teaspoonful of flour, one tablespoonful of 
sugar, the juice of quarter a lemon, the juice 
from the prunes, and enough boiling water to 
make a cupful. 

Boil and serve hot. Pour the remainder of 
the batter into patty- pans, let them rise, covered, 
the same as the pudding, and bake. Eat hot, in 
place of bread, for dinner. 



XVI. 

Consommd julienne. 

Fresh fish (baked).* 

Potato cakes. Hot slaw. 

String- or butter-beans. 

Bread and butter. Cucumbers. 

Chicken salad. 

Crackers. Cheese. 

Apple, peach, or rhubarb pie. 

Tea or coffee. Crystallized pineapple. 



Alternative : Fried oysters. Suet pudding. 
Oranges. 

CONSOMM^ JULIENNE. 

Heat a pint of soup-stock and add to it half a 
cupful of spring vegetables, shredded fine ; cook 
until tender and serve. 

FRESH SHAD, BLUEFISH OR MACKEREL, 

WHITEFISH, PIKE, BASS, ETC. 

(One to two pounds, stuffed and baked. ) 

If small use the whole fish, but if a large one 

take only one side. After cleaning inside and 

98 



Catering tor ^wo. 99 

out, immerse in cold water, wash thoroughly, 
but quickly to avoid losing the sweet flavor, 
wipe gently with a clean napkin, dredge all 
over with flour, dust with pepper and a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and fill with a stufl&ng of bread 
crumbs, the rule for which is given in Roast 
Pork. 

Place the fish in a pan just wide enough for 
it and if half a fish is used lay two thin slices 
of salt pork on top of the stuffing — if an entire 
fish, on top of the fish. Dredge with flour and 
bake in a hot oven one hour. I^ift carefully, so 
as not to break, and serve on a platter. If pre- 
ferred the head and tail may be cut off before 
cooking ; some cooks prefer to send to table 
whole, but to do so one must be expert in dish- 
ing, as the fish breaks easily. 

The remainder of the uncooked part may be 
broiled or fried for another meal, but it must be 
kept directly on ice, as it spoils quickly. 

The sooner fish reaches the fire after being 
taken from the water the finer the flavor. 

Cold fish makes an excellent salad. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Mince very fine in a chopping-bowl two cup- 
fuls of cold boiled or baked potatoes ; sprinkle 
with half a teaspoon ful of salt and a teaspoonful 
of flour ; mix thoroughly with the yolk of an 
egg and a teaspoonful of butter, and mold into 



loo Caterina tor ^wo» 

four round flat cakes. If the potatoes are too 
mealy to knead easily, add enough milk to make 
them of proper consistency ; the cakes should 
be so soft as barely to hold together before 
cooking. 

Make a batter of one tablespoonful of 
melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of cold 
milk, and one tablespoonful of flour, in a 
saucer. Dip each cake in the batter, careful 
not to break, and fry a delicate brown in either 
a teaspoonful of hot butter or salt-pork drip- 
pings. If any batter is left, pour it over the 
cakes before turning to fry on other side. 

Use a pancake-turner. 

Garnish with parsley. 

HOT SIvAW. 

Put into a saucepan a quart of finely shredded 
cabbage ; sprinkle with half a teaspoonful of 
salt, pour on a cupful of boiling water, cover, 
and cook half an hour. At the end of this time 
add half a cup of milk and a teaspoonful of 
butter, and cook down quite dry. Serve in a 
vegetable-dish with the following sauce : Beat 
an egg until frothy, add a tablespoonful of cider 
vinegar in which have been dissolved a pinch 
each of red pepper, mustard, salt, and sugar. 
Add a teaspoonful of butter, and set over a tea- 
kettle until a little thick, then add a quarter of 
a cup of boiling milk. 

Stir, and serve. 



Catering tor tlwo. loi 

STRING-BEANS. 

Wash and pull the strings from a quart of fresh 
brittle string-beans ; break into inch pieces. If 
they do not snap easily they are old and will 
prove neither tender nor delicious. Cook for 
two hours in one pint of boiling water with half 
a teaspoonful of salt and a thin slice of fried 
salt pork without the grease. 

Throw away the pork at the end of two hours, 
add to the beans a heaping tablespoonful of but- 
ter, a tablespoonful of flour, and plenty of pep- 
per, cook up, and serve in a vegetable-tureen. 

BUTTER-BEANS. 

These are string-beans of a bright yellow 
color which will require only half as long time 
to cook as the green variety. Cook until tender 
in enough boiling salted water to cover. 

Add a tablespoonful each of butter and flour, 
and cook down to a rich sauce. 

A quart is enough for two meals, and they 
will be just as good warmed over. 

Do not use pork with the butter-bean. 

CUCUMBERS. 

Peel a fresh, crisp cucumber, slice as thin as 
a knife blade and lay in strongly salted ice- 
water in the refrigerator for several hours. 



Ik 



I02 Catering for ^wo. 

Drain and serve (in a dish rubbed with an 
onion) with cayenne pepper, oil, and vinegar. 
The hot slaw should be omitted if cucumbers 
are served. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Place the body of a chicken, with the giblets, 
in a kettle, dredge with two teaspoonfuls of 
flour, pour on one cupful of boiling water, 
cover, and cook until the meat is so tender that 
it will break easily when twisted gently with a 
fork. 

Cook so slowly and cover so closely that there 
need be no renewing of the water. 

When done, take a cupful of the meat freed 
from bone and skin, cut (do not chop) into 
half-inch bits. Mash the liver with a knife- 
blade and stir it into the gravy. Take a table- 
spoonful of the gravy prepared in this way and 
stir it in with the cupful of chicken, add salt 
and pepper and, when cold, a cupful of celery, 
salted, peppered, and cut into half-inch pieces. 
Cover and put away in a cold place. Only the 
finest and whitest celery is fit to use for chicken 
salad. Just before sending to the table pour 
over the salad the following dressing. The 
quantity is sufficient for several salads and it 
will keep in a cold place for a week. 

The cream may be sweet or sour, and if it 
will not whip readily, use it plain. 



Catering tor ^wo. 103 

CREAM DRESSING. 

In an agate-ware saucepan that fits over the 
teakettle, beat the yolk of one egg with half an 
even teaspoonful of salt, same of sugar, a pinch 
of cayenne, and l^alf an even teaspoonful of 
flour. 

Mix in a cup one tablespoonful of cider 
vinegar and half a teaspoonful of mustard, and 
add to the mixture in the saucepan. Stir well 
and add two tablespoonfuls of milk ; cook over 
the teakettle for two minutes, stirring constantly 
from the bottom and sides. Remove from the 
fire and whip until cold, with a fork ; then 
add four tablespoonfuls of cream, whipped to a 
stifi" froth, and from three to eight tablespoon- 
fuls of olive-oil. 

If it should separate, warm it slightly by set- 
ting the bowl in warm water for a minute, and 
beat thoroughly. 

PIE-CRUST (FLAKY). 

Dip from the bag one even cupful of flour, 
add half a teaspoonful of salt, and sift two or 
three times. 

With a knife cut into the flour half a cup of 
ice-cold lard to the size of peas, add four table- 
spoonfuls of ice-cold water, and stir with a 
spoon. If more water is needed, sprinkle in 
a few drops, but not as much as a tablespoon- 
ftd. 



I04 Catering for ^wo. 

Divide the paste in two equal parts, roll out 
one half and fit it into a pie pan. 

Roll out the other half an eighth of an inch 
in thickness, dot it with a tablespoon ful of 
sweet butter, dredge lightly with flour, fold up 
to the smallest compass possible, beat with the 
rolling-pin, and roll out once, pressing the roll- 
ing-pin this way and that during the process. 

Slash with a knife in any desired pattern, 
lay upon the fruit in the pan, which contains the 
under crust, and pinch the edges together ; then 
trim and bind the edges with a strip of muslin 
two inches wide, wet in cold water: this will 
keep in the juices. Bake at once in a hot oven. 
The under crust may be baked first if preferred. 

Prick it all over with a fork to prevent blis- 
tering. 

Never handle pie-crust any more than is 
absolutely necessary ; the quicker it is made, 
and the colder the materials, the better it will 
lie when baked. 

Use just enough flour to keep it from stick- 
ing to the board and rolling-pin, and see that 
the hands are cool. 

Prepare the fruit before beginning the paste, 
and be particular to have lard and butter as 
cold as possible. 

RHUBARB, PBACH, OR APPLE PIE. 
Rhubarb pies need an upper and lower crust, 
but peach and apple pies are delicious if made 



Catering tor XTwo. 105 

in deep saucers with only a round of upper 
crust laid lightly on top of the fruit, and not 
pinched to the edge of the saucer. 

Peel and cut the fruit in slices, fill the saucers, 
sprinkle with sugar (two tablespoonfuls for 
each greening apple, and more or less accord- 
ing to the sourness of peaches), dredge with 
flour, dust on nutmeg or cinnamon, and they 
are ready for the covers. 

Peel and cut the pie-plant into inch pieces, 
add one cup of sugar to three heaping cupfuls 
of rhubarb and a tablespoonful of flour, mix 
together, and place on the pan with the under 
crust, cover and bind as directed, and bake. 
Some cooks prefer not to peel the pie-plant for 
pies ; the flavor however is more delicate to 
peel. 

If cherries are used do not stone them. If 
canned fruit, reserve the juice, boil it with 
sugar and a little flour, and pour it into the 
pie after baking. 

Pies need plenty of sugar. 

CANDIED PINKAPPI.E. 

Cover one pint of sliced pineapple with half 
a pint of granulated sugar, let it stand until 
the sugar is dissolved, then drain off the juice 
closely. Cook for a few minutes, add the pine- 
apple, cook two minutes, spread on a platter, 
and keep either in the warming-oven or the 



io6 Catering for Ewo. 

sunshine for a day. Turn the pieces and let 
it stand for another day. 

Put away in glass, covered, in a dry place. 

frie;d oysters. 

(Twenty medium-sized oysters.) 

Crush to a powder four milk or sea-foam 
crackers : mix thoroughly with a half-teaspoon- 
ful of salt, unless the oysters are of the salt 
variety, which may be ascertained by tasting 
the juice. 

Roll each oyster in the cracker crumbs and 
fry to a delicate brown in hot butter. 

A lump of butter the size of an egg will be 
required, putting on the second half when the 
oysters are turned. Fry quickly, as oysters 
toughen and deteriorate by long contact with 
heat, every instant counting after they are 
done. 

Have the pan and half of the butter hot when 
the oysters go in, but do not cover. 

As soon as they are browned, turn with a 
broad-bladed knife : avoid using a fork, as oys- 
ters should not be pierced. 

Put in the other half of the butter and brown 
the other side of the oysters. 

Pepper lightly and serve on a hot platter. 
The sooner oysters and clams are cooked after 
leaving the shell, the better. 

If any juice is left, mix with rolled cracker 
and fry in butter. 



Catering tor Ewo. 107 

SUET PUDDING. 

Sift twice, one and a half cupfuls of flour with 
one teaspoonful of baking-powder, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful 
each of cloves and cinnamon. Chop into this 
half a cupful of suet, add half a cupful of stoned 
raisins, and mix well with the flour. 

Beat together half a cupful each of milk and 
molasses and stir with the other ingredients. 

Steam in a steamer an hour and a half. The 
fire should be steady and the water boiling be- 
fore the pudding is put together. 

The fire should not get low nor the water 
stop boiling before it is done. 

For the sauce, cream a lump of butter the 
size of an egg, add a scant cupful of sugar, a 
tablespoonful of flour, a pinch of salt, and, 
gradually, a generous half-cup of boiling water. 

Cook a few minutes and flavor with a wine- 
glass of wine or brandy. 



XVII. 

Cream of Asparagus. 

Veal cutlet (breaded). 

Potatoes browned in milk. 

Spinach. Bgg sauce. 

Bread and butter. Grape jelly. 

Sliced tomatoes. French dressing. 

American club-house cheese. 

Saratoga chip crackers. 



Cottage pudding. Wine sauce. 

Tea or coffee. 

Bananas. Bonbons. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Two thirds of a pint of water in which aspara- 
gus has boiled. 

To this add three or four stalks of fresh aspar- 
agus and one dessert-spoonful of butter mixed 
with one teaspoon ful of flour, and let it boil 
until the stalks are tender. Mash these through 
the soup, add a pinch of cayenne pepper, two 
tablespoonfuls of cream, and salt to taste ; 

io8 



Catering tor ^wo. 109 

strain and serve with any kind of delicate 
crackers. If preferred, instead of using water 
in which asparagus has been boiled, cut up 
half a dozen stalks, and cook until tender in a 
pint (scant) of water : mash, and proceed as 
directed. 

VEAL CUTLET. 

Get a slice from the thick part of the leg 
weighing about a pound and a half. Divide in 
two pieces, using but one for the present dinner : 
the butcher will keep the other in his ice- 
chest. 

Lay the veal on a meat-block or old pie tin 
and pound with a hammer until it becomes a 
jelly, pushing it together here and there to 
keep it thick and in shape : cut the edges 
every half-inch to prevent curling. Roll lightly 
in fine cracker crumbs and put it in a spider 
where a dessert-spoonful of butter is frying. 
Put another spoonful of butter in dots over the 
meat, fry rapidly for a minute, careful not to 
burn the butter ; then remove to a cooler part 
of the range and cook each side for twenty 
minutes : it should be a fine brown. 

Put the cutlet on a heated platter, and salt 
and pepper lightly. Add to the pan a teaspoon- 
ful of flour, stir and pour on half a cupful of 
boiling water : cook, add salt, and pour over 
the meat. Garnish with slices of lemon and 
serve a slice with each plate. 



no daterin^ for Zvoo. 

»Fresli fat pork is very nice for frying veal in 
instead of butter. Cut it into bits and use two 
tablespoon fuls. Six oyster crackers are suffi- 
cient for the breading. 

Pound and cut the second cutlet in the same 
way : dip into a batter made of one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, a heaping tablespoouful of butter, 
melted, and half of a beaten egg. 

Fry slowly in a little butter and make the 
gravy as directed for the breaded cutlet, adding 
a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

Garnish with watercresses. 

Any meat left may be used for a salad ; chop, 
mix with lettuce, and serve with salad dressing. 

POTATOES BROWNED IN MILK. 

Melt in a small spider a heaping teaspoonful 
of table butter ; take from the fire and add a 
large pinch of salt, one third of a cup of milk, 
and one teaspoonful of flour ; stir, and add two 
cupfuls of very thinly sliced cold baked or boiled 
potatoes. 

Stir all together, dust with black pepper, 
cover, and cook without further stirring for 
about fifteen minutes. 

Set the spider on a wet cloth for a few min- 
utes to sweat, and turn out on a dish for serv- 
ing. The bottom will be brown and richly 
glazed, and the upper portion will be creamy. 



Catering tor ITwo. m 

Serve bottom upward and be careful not to 
break. 

SPINACH WITH BGG SAUCE. 

Put a small measure of spinach (beet tops, or 
dandelions may be substituted) in a pan of cold 
water for several hours. 

Pick over each leaf carefully, using the en- 
tire root of the beets and as much of the roots 
of the spinach as possible. Wash in several 
waters to get out all the sand ; when perfectly 
clean there will not be any sand on the bottom 
of the pan. 

Cook in one quart of boiling water, to which 
a teaspoonful of salt has been added, for twenty 
minutes. 

Skim out the greens and heap in a mound on 
a vegetable dish ; serve with the following 
sauce : 

Mash fine the yolk of a hard-boiled egg with 
a tablespoonful of melted butter ; add a large 
pinch of salt, one of cayenne and one of mus- 
tard. 

Beat the whole of one raw egg with a table- 
spoonful of melted butter, or olive-oil, add two 
tablespoonfuls cider vinegar, add the other in- 
gredients, also two tablespoonfuls of milk. 
Cook over the teakettle until it is a little thick, 
add the white of the hard-boiled egg, finely 
chopped, and pass with the spinach. 



112 Catering tor XTwo. 

Greens may also be served with hard-boiled 
eggs, sliced, and with a French dressing of 
vinegar, salt, oil, and pepper, 

SLICED TOMATOES. 

Pare with a sharp knife, two medium-sized, 
ripe, sound tomatoes. Put them on ice to be- 
come very cold, and, when ready to serve, slice 
and arrange them on a salad dish. The dish 
may first be rubbed with a slice of raw onion, 
if that flavor is liked. 

Serve with French dressing ladled from a 
gravy-boat. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Cream with the hand one fourth of a cup of 
butter, add a half-cup of sugar and the yolk 
of one egg. When very light add half a cup 
of milk which is blood warm, then one cup of 
flour sifted four times with a rounded teaspoon- 
ful of baking-powder and one fourth of a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Whisk the white of the egg 
to a stiff froth, stir the cake up again, and add 
the egg. 

Bake in muffin-rings, filling them a little less 
than half full. 

Use two of these little cakes for dinner. 

They should be served with wine sauce, made 
as follows : 

Mix one even teaspoonful of corn-starch with 



Catering toe ITwo. 113 

an even teaspoon ful of butter and one heaping 
tablespoonful of sugar, add half a cup of boiling 
water, half a teaspoonful of caramel, and a 
small pinch of salt, and boil, covered, for a few 
minutes. 

When ready to serve add a tablespoonful of 
sherry. 

Oranges may be cut up and placed around 
the base of these puddings. 

The remainder of the cakes may be frosted 
with confectioner's sugar and a little lemon 
juice, with suflficient water to make it a pliable 
paste. 

This batter makes a good layer cake : bake 
in three layers, in a quick oven. 

For chocolate filling, melt one cake (square) 
of chocolate in a saucepan over the teakettle, 
add eight even tablespoonfuls of confectioner's 
sugar, and thin the mixture with four table- 
spoonfuls of cream : flavor with half a teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla extract. 

For cream cake, beat one egg with a table- 
spoonful of sugar, a pinch of salt, half a tea- 
spoonful of lemon extract, and add slowly half 
a cup of boiling milk in which a heaping tea- 
spoonful of flour has been cooked. Boil over 
the teakettle a few minutes, stirring constantly. 
Mix the flour first with a spoonful of cold milk, 
then add to the boiling milk. 

Spread on the cakes when cool : frost the top 
layer. 



XVIII. 

Vegetable soup. 

Beefsteak pudding. 

Browned potatoes. 

Stewed tomatoes. 

Bread and butter. 

Onion salad. French dressing. 

Banq^uet crackers. Old English cheese. 

Floating island. 

Wafers. 

Tea or coffee. 

Apples. Assorted nuts. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Blend a tablespoonful of butter with one tea- 
spoonful of flour, and pour on it, stirring con- 
stantly, three cupfuls of boiling water ; cook 
for fifteen minutes, then add one and a half 
cupfuls of onion, turnip, and carrot, cut in 
quarters, salt to taste, a pinch of cayenne, and 
boil half an hour. At the end of this time skim 
out the vegetables, add to the soup two table- 
spoonfuls of tomatoes, and boil fifteen or twenty 
minutes. 

"4 



Catering for ^wo. 115 

strain, and serve with minced parsley stirred 
through it. 

Small oyster-crackers or Saratoga chips may 
be passed with this soup. 

Serve the vegetables the following day 
warmed up in a cream sauce. 

BEEFSTEAK PUDDING. 

Put into the bottom of a quart earthen bowl 
two slices of salt pork which have been fried 
a delicate brown, but do not use the grease 
which tried out in the frying. 

Place upon the pork one pound of raw round 
steak (freed from fat), and upon the steak a 
lump of butter the size of an egg; dust on 
black pepper, cover the bowl, and set in a pot 
with boiling water reaching half-way up the 
sides of the bowl. 

Put a wire tea-stand, or meat-rack, in the 
bottom of the pot for the bowl to rest on, cover 
closely, and boil three hours, replenishing the 
the water as it cooks away from the boiling 
teakettle. 

At the end of two and a quarter hours pour 
ofiF half of the gravy, salt the meat with one 
third of a teaspoonful of salt, and lay over it a 
crust made in the following way : 

Put one fourth of a cup of finely chopped suet 
into the chopping-bowl, add half a cup of flour 
in which has been sifted one half of a rounded 



ii6 Catering for Zwo. 

teaspoonful of baking-powder and half of an 
even teaspoonful of salt ; chop flour and suet 
together, and mix in with a spoon three table- 
spoonfuls of ice-water. If more wetting is 
needed, sprinkle in a few more drops of water ; 
it should be of the consistency of biscuit-dough. 

See that the suet is ice cold, and do not 
handle the dough more than is absolutely 
necessary, but get it over the fire as soon as 
possible. 

The bowl should be left uncovered, so that 
the steam may reach the crust, and the pot 
must be covered closely. 

When done, pour out on a deep platter, meat- 
side down, and over all pour the gravy. This 
is made by cooking two lamb kidneys (chopped 
fine), with one slice of onion and a pinch of 
cayenne pepper, in a cup of cold water for 
thirty minutes. Cook gently, and take off the 
scum carefully as it rises, or the gravy will be 
strong and disagreeable. The little veins and 
fat in the centre of the kidneys should be re- 
moved, and they should be washed in cold 
water before being chopped. 

Thicken the gravy with a tablespoonful of 
flour which has been mixed smooth with the 
gravy from the meat. 

If too thick add a little boiling water. 

This dish may be prepared on the previous 
day, and will be fully as delicious as when first 
cooked. 



Catering tor ^wo. 117 

Warm over by setting the bowl containing it 
in a steamer over boiling water. 

BROWNED POTATOES. 

Wash and peel two medium-sized potatoes, 
split them, dust with salt, dredge lightly with 
flour, lay upon a baking-tin, closely covered, 
and bake in a hot oven. When soft, turn 
them, put a small lump of butter on each piece, 
dust with pepper, and brown a little longer, 
uncovered. 

To be right they should have a crisp brown 
coat and be mealy inside. 

The mealiness depends on the quality of the 
potatoes and the heat of the oven. A slow oven 
is not good. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Add to two cupfuls of tomatoes a scant half- 
teaspoonful of salt and a sprinkle of cayenne 
pepper, and stew gently for half an hour, stir- 
ring occasionally to prevent burning. 

Add a pinch of sugar and a teaspoonful of 
butter, and cook for ten minutes longer with 
the saucepan covered. 

Use agate or earthenware, as the acid of to- 
matoes corrodes tin. 

ONION SALAD. 
Slice a Bernmda or Spanish onion in wafer- 
like slices, and soak in enough cold salted water 



ii8 Catering tor ^wo. 

to cover, several hours. Drain, rinse in cold 
fresh water, and serve with a simple dressing 
of vinegar, pepper (black and cayenne) and 
salt, with oil in any desired proportion. 

This is a most healthful salad, and it may be 
eaten with cold sliced potatoes and lettuce. 

The silver-skinned, or white, onion, may be 
used if the others are out of market. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Mix half even teaspoonful of flour with one 
of cold milk, add two thirds of a cup of boiling 
milk, and place the vessel containing it in a 
saucepan of boiling water to cook, stirring oc- 
casionally, while whipping the white of an egg 
to a stiff" froth. 

Then beat to a cream the yolk of the egg 
with a heaping tablespoonful of granulated 
sugar and a pinch of salt. Pour the boiling 
milk upon the yolk and sugar, beat well and 
return to the saucepan, stirring continually 
while cooking two minutes. 

Remove from fire and add half a teaspoonful 
of lemon extract (or other flavoring). 

Add to the frothed white one teaspoonful of 
lemon juice, a few grains of salt, and a tea- 
spoonful of confectioner's sugar. 

Whisk together and lay on top of the hot 
custard. Cover closely, and, when cold, pour 
into a glass dish for the table. 



Catering tor Zvtfo, 119 

Serve ice cold. 

Strawberries, or ripe peaches (cut up), may be 
served with this dish if liked. 
Pass almond or vanilla wafers. 

VANIIvIvA WAFERS. 

One fourth of a cup of butter, one cup of 
flour lightly put in, one rounded teaspoon ful of 
baking-powder, one fourth of a teaspoonful 
of salt, one yolk of egg, one half-cup of moist 
sugar, three tablespoon fuls of cold water, one 
scant teaspoonful of flavoring. 

Sift flour, baking-powder, and salt four times, 
and rub in the butter. 

Beat the yolk and sugar to a cream, add fla- 
voring, and, by the spoonful, the water. 

Then add this to the flour, stirring it in with 
the hand till the mass is light and smooth. 
Keep the fingers spread apart while beating. 

Put this mixture in half-teaspoon fuls on the 
inverted bottoms of well-buttered pans, at inter- 
vals of two inches. Spread a little by a circular 
motion of the spoon tip, and bake in a quick, 
but not fierce, oven a few minutes. 



XIX. 

Oyster soup. 

Pork and beans. 

Spiced tomato sauce (hot). 

Hot corn bread. Cider. 

Salted almonds. 

Celery. Cream cheese. Crackers, 

Preserved ginger. 

Indian pudding. 

Tea or coffee. 

Nut candies. Apples. 

OYSTER STEW. 
(Twenty-five freshened oysters.) 
See the oysters opened and if possible get 
those which have been " freshened," as they 
are preferable to the salt ones. Put a pint of 
rich sweet milk on the fire to scald, and in an- 
other saucepan the strained oyster liquor : skim 
the latter well as it boils. Add to it a lump of 
butter the size of an egg, blended with a half- 
teaspoonful of flour (not more), and when this 



Catering for ^wo. 121 

is cooked, add the oysters and set the saucepan 
where the contents will keep at the boiling- 
point for a minute or two. Then add the 
scalding milk and serve at once. Add salt and 
pepper to taste, with a few drops of onion juice. 
Do not allow the stew even to boil up or 
simmer after the milk goes in, or it will be sure 
to curdle. Serve with oyster-crackers or small 
squares of toasted bread. 

PORK AND BEANS. 

Pick over and wash one pint of pea-beans and 
soak over night in a pint of cold water. In the 
morning add two more cups of water and cook 
for ten minutes. At the expiration of this time 
stir in a half-teaspoonful of baking-soda and 
skim ofiF the froth. Drain ofiF all the water and 
put the beans in a pot with a fitted cover : a 
pipkin or agate-ware vessel will do if a regular 
bean-pot is not at hand. 

Mix a pint of fresh boiling water with half a 
teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, and an 
even tablespoonful of either sugar or molasses. 
Pour this over the beans, set in a moderate 
oven, and bake slowly for three hours, covered : 
at the end of this time add half a pound of 
washed salt pork (score the rind every half 
inch), and press it down so that the top comes 
even with the top of the beans, and dust with 
black pepper. 



122 Catering for ^wo. 

If the water has cooked away, add a little 
from boiling teakettle, just enough to cover. 
Bake another hour, uncovered, then cover 
closely and cook until night, but do not add any 
more water. 

Beans should cook continuously in a slow 
oven from ten in the morning until six at night : 
if cooked fast they will be too dry. 

When done, to be just right, the juice should 
show itself when the pot is tilted half-way up. 
The pork rind should be almost like jelly, and 
slightly browned, and every bean should be 
whole but soft. 

Serve in a deep dish and put the pork on a 
platter garnished with any seasonable greens. 

SPICBD TOMATO SAUCE (HOT). 

Melt a lump of butter the size of a large nut- 
meg, and pour in one cupful of tomatoes, either 
fresh or canned. Add salt to taste ; a pinch of 
cayenne, a slice of onion, a dust of flour, and a 
pinch of ground cloves and cinnamon. Stew 
gently one hour, stirring often to prevent burn- 
ing, and keep the saucepan covered. 

Strain through a sieve which will keep back 
the seeds, and add a teaspoonful of vinegar 
if liked. 

This sauce is delicious poured over hashed 
meats which are served on toast. 



Catering tor ^wo, 123 

CORN BREAD. 

Half an even cup of Graham flour, half an 
even cup of yellow corn-meal sifted, with one 
teaspoonful of baking-powder, half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and one teaspoonful of sugar. Add 
half a cup of suet and chop all together. Add 
one well-beaten egg, and one full cup of cold 
water ; beat the egg in the water. 

Pour into a greased pan or pudding-mould, 
set in a steamer, and steam one hour ; then bake 
in the oven half an hour. 

Half a pint of loppered milk may be used in- 
stead of the water, in which case half a level 
teaspoonful of baking-soda should take the 
place of the baking-powder ; this should be 
well beaten into the milk. 

Sour milk makes a much better corn bread 
than water, and may easily be secured by a 
little planning beforehand. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

Heaf one cup of milk, add two rounded 
tablespoon fuls of yellow corn-meal, stir, and 
boil for three minutes, take from the fire, add 
one teaspoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of 
New Orleans molasses, one cup of cold milk, 
one well-beaten egg, a half-teaspoonful of 
ground ginger, a pinch of cloves and cinnamon, 
and a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. 

Bake in a very slow oven two hours. 



124 Catering tor XLvoo, 

To be right, the pudding should be like a solid 
custard floating in whey. 

Serve with a sauce of powdered sugar, three 
spoonfuls, stirred to a cream with one of 
creamed butter. 



XX. 

Oysters on the half-shell. 

Ban quet-crackers. 

Roast pork. 

♦ Boiled hominy. 

Baked apple-sauce. 

Bread and butter. Celery. 

Grapefruit. 

Chocolate pudding with Sea-foam cream. 

Tea or coflfee. 

Bonbons. 

ROAST RIB AND LOIN OF PORK. 
(THREE POUNDS.) 

Always buy young pork, as it is sweeter and 
more tender. 

Put meat on a rack in a roasting-pot ; an 
agate kettle with a close-fitting cover will 
answer. 

Dredge the pork liberally with flour, pour 
over a scant pint of boiling water, cover, and 
cook slowly an hour and a half. 

Take up the meat and put it in a dripping- 

125 



126 Catering tor ^wo. 

pan, ribs upward, and lay on it a stuffing made 
of one quart of stale bread crumbs steamed 
moist in a cup of water, and mixed thoroughly 
with a salt-spoon of salt, a half-teaspoonful of 
black pepper, and a dessert-spoonful of butter. 

Roast one hour in a hot oven, basting occa- 
sionally with the gravy in the roasting-pot 
(from which all grease has been skimmed.) 

Keep the gravy hot. Serve the meat on a 
platter garnished with any seasonable green. 
Thicken the gravy with one dessert-spoonful of 
flour blended with two of cold water, add salt 
to taste, a dust of cayenne, boil up, and serve. 

The second day the pork may be sliced and 
served cold with fried hominy. 

A succeeding meal may be prepared in this 
way : 

Free it from all fat and mince one cupful and 
warm up in a sauce made of a dessert-spoonful 
of butter, one of browned flour, and half a cup 
of boiling water, with salt and pepper. Serve 
on stale bread, toasted and dipped in salted 
boiling water. Butter the toast slightly after it 
is moistened. 

BOIIvED HOMINY. 
Put one cupful of hominy into three cupfuls 
of boiling water ; add half a teaspoonful of salt, 
stir until the hominy boils, then set on back of 
stove, closely covered, to simmer four or five 
hours : stir occasionally. Use the Universal pot. 



Catering tor ^wo» 127 

or an earthen one set upon a stand, so that the 
hominy will not burn. 

A double boiler is not so good, as hominy 
needs a closer action of the fire than it can get 
through water. 

BAKBD-APPLE SAUCB. 

Peel, quarter, and core four Rhode Island 
Greening apples. Put them in an agate or 
earthern dish with four tablespoon fuls of granu- 
lated sugar and four of boiling water. 

Cover closely and bake in a moderate oven 
from one half to three quarters of an hour. 

If desired hot, dot the apples with small 
pieces of butter just before taking from the 
oven, leave the cover off, and bake a little longer. 
Serve in the baking-dish, with a napkin pinned 
around it. If to be served cold, pour carefully, 
when cool, into a glass dish, but do not break 
the fruit, as the pieces should retain their shape. 

CHOCOIvATB JBLLY. 

Mix two even teaspoon fuls of cocoa with one 
heaping tablespoonful of granulated sugar, and 
pour on slowly, stirring constantly, one cupful 
of boiling water. Boil one minute, and add 
four even teaspoonfuls of corn-starch mixed with 
one teaspoonful of cold water, and one table- 
spoonful of rich cream and a pinch of salt. 
Boil and stir for seven or eight minutes. 



128 Catering for ^wo. 

Take from the fire and add half a teaspoonful 
of extract of vanilla : pour into a shallow dish, 
and when cold spread Sea-foam cream on top. 

Serve ice cold. 



XXI. 

Broth. 
I/amb (browned in spiced sauce.) 

Saratoga potatoes. Onions. 

Dinner rolls. Lemon marmalade. 

Potato salad. 

Cream cheese. Biscuits. 

Tapioca cream. 

Tea or coffee. Fruit. 

IvAMB BROWNED IN SPICED SAUCE. 

Get a shank of mutton weighing about a 
pound. Trim off the dried outer skin, wipe 
carefully with a damp cloth, dredge all parts 
plentifully with flour, and dust with black pep- 
per. 

Lay the meat in an agate kettle, add a tiny 
piece of bay leaf, one clove, a pinch of cayenne, 
one thin slice of onion, and an inch piece of 
cinnamon stick, pour on a full cup of boiling 
water, and cook gently two hours, being careful 
that it does not bum. The water should all be 
cooked away by this time, only a spoonful or 

9 

129 



I30 Catering for q:wo. 

two of rich brown gravy remaining, and the 
meat should slip easily from the bones. 

Transfer the meat (do not use the bones) to 
a deep platter. 

Season with salt, and pour over a grav}^ made 
from the sediment in the baking-pan : a spoon- 
ful of wine or lemon juice may be added to 
this if desired. 

Pour into the pot in which the meat was 
cooked, a cupful and a half of boiling water, 
add the water which was drained from the 
onions, and cook gently ten or fifteen minutes. 
Add a little salt and a few sprigs of parsley, 
boil up and strain ; this makes the soup, and 
there should be about three fourths of a 
pint. 

Serve a thin slice of lemon with each portion. 

SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Slice in wafer-like slices, two medium-sized 
potatoes and let them soak for half an hour in 
a quart of salted water. 

Drain and dry with a cloth and fry in boiling- 
hot lard until they are a pale brown. Put 
in only a few at a time, and lay them when 
done on a sheet of brown paper, to absorb the 
grease ; serve hot. 

Saratoga potatoes may now be found at any 
first-class grocer's shop and these need only be 
warmed a few minutes in an open dish in the 
oven. 



i 

Catering for XTwo. 131 

ONIONS BROWNED IN BUTTER. 

Slice two cupfuls of onions, add one fourth of 
a teaspoonful of vSalt and one cupful of boiling 
water. Cook, covered, until tender, then drain 
off the water (reserve this for the soup-pot), add 
one even tablespoonful of butter, and stir well 
after the butter is melted, and fry until a deli- 
cate brown. 

Do not stir again but move the spider about 
to prevent burning. 

Keep onions in cold water while paring, to 
prevent the eyes from smarting. 

POTATO SAIvAD. 

Beat the yolk of an egg with half a level tea- 
spoonful of flour, one third of a teaspoonful of 
salt, a pinch of sugar, and two pinches of 
cayenne pepper. 

Add two tablespoonfuls of boiling water and 
cook over the teakettle, stirring constantly, two 
minutes. 

Then remove, add one tablespoonful of cider 
vinegar, three tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, 
and either a tablespoonful of oil or melted but- 
ter with a few drops of onion juice. Beat well, 
and to two tablespoonfuls of this sauce add a 
half-cupful of mashed and seasoned potatoes. 

Beat for several minutes, and heap on a 
mound of spinach which has been cooked, 



132 Catcving for ^wo, 

drained, and seasoned. Pour the remainder of 
sauce over all. 

This may be eaten hot or cold. Water- 
cresses, celery, or cabbage, or any salad greens 
may be substituted for the spinach. 

RAISED BISCUIT OR DINNER ROIvLS AND 
BREAD. 

Two heaping cups of flour sifted three times. 
Put into an agate two-quart vessel having a fitted 
cover one even cupful of lukewarm water, a 
heaping teaspoon ful of sweet butter, one even 
teaspoonful of salt and one of sugar. 

Add to this one fourth of a cake of Fleisch- 
mann's compressed yeast, dissolved in one tea- 
spoonful of the water. 

Mix well and stir in the flour, using a stout 
spoon for the purpose and mixing thoroughly. 

Cover closely and let rise about five hours. 
At the end of this time the dough should be 
light and soft and nearly fill the dish. Turn 
out on a lightly floured board or pie pan and 
knead a few minutes, using not more than a 
teaspoonful of flour for the entire kneading. 

Put into a saucer another spoonful of flour, 
cut the dough into twenty pieces, roll each into 
a ball between the palms, dipping them in the 
flour in the saucer to prevent sticking. 

Put them in a greased pan which is two 
inches deep, and do not let the rolls touch at 



Catering tor ^wo» 133 

any point. Cover closely with a high cover, or 
another pan, and let them rise about three hours. 

They should by that time have become as one, 
with slight depressions showing the dividing 
line, and they should also be moist to the touch. 
Bake in a hot oven fifteen minutes, wrap in a 
hot napkin, and serve. 

They may be heated for breakfast by putting 
them in the oven in a closely covered dish. 

If wanted for six o'clock dinner, begin opera- 
tions by nine in the morning. 

The temperature for raising should be from 
80° to 90°. 

Never set sponge on a hot surface ; the found- 
ation on which the pans rest should only be 
blood-warm ; the heat must come from radia- 
tion. 

Too much heat from any source will cause 
sponge to become thin and pasty, and the 
dough will lose all its elasticity. 

For bread, put into a three-quart basin two 
even cupfuls of lukewarm water, one heaping 
tablespoouful of sweet butter, one teaspoonful 
of sugar, and one heaping teaspoonful of salt. 

Melt half a yeast-cake in a spoonful of the water, 
add, and stir until all has been dissolved ; then 
stir in five cupfuls of flour, measured before sift- 
ing, and sifted three times. Stir very thoroughly, 
cover closely with a tin cover, and when the 
mass has risen to the top of the basin, turn on 
a lightly floured board and knead half an hour, 



134 Caterinci tor ^wo. 

kneading in one scant half-cupful of flour. The 
dough should now be almost as elastic as a 
rubber ball. 

Put it back in the basin, cover, and let rise to 
double its bulk or a little more. Then knead 
again a minute, using not more than ateaspoon- 
ful of flour. 

Cut off four little pieces, roll into balls, set to 
rise again, and when they have trebled in size, 
set in a steamer for half an hour ; they will 
keep several days in the bread-box and may be 
used for dumplings in meat stews. 

Cut the remainder of the dough into loaves 
of any desired size, fill pans one third full, cover, 
and raise until they have doubled in bulk, when 
bake in a moderate oven. 

Small individual loaves arfe best. 

Temperature and time for raising are the 
same as for biscuit. Kneading should be done 
with the "heel of the palm." 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Soak three tablespoon fuls of flake tapioca 
over night in half a cup of cold water. 

In the morning add one cup of rich milk and 
a large pinch of salt and cook half an hour in 
a double boiler, stirring frequently. 

Beat the yolk of one egg with two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, thin with a little of the hot milk, 
stir well, and add to the tapioca. 



Catering tor Ewo. 135 

Whisk to a stiff froth the white of the egg, 
add this also, cook a minute, flavor with a half- 
teaspoonful of vanilla and a dust of nutmeg, and 
pour into a dish for the table. 

Serve ice cold. 

This dessert may be varied by adding to the 
top a few spoonfuls of whipped cream and serv- 
ing with it a teaspoonful of grape jelly to each 
plate. 



XXII. 

Pur^e of beans. 

Porter-house steak. 

Potato croquettes. 

Boiled beets. 

Onions baked in milk. 

Bread and butter. Tomato marmalade. 

Asparagus salad. 

Crackers. Cheese. 

Chocolate pudding. 

Tea or coflfee. Oranges. 

pur]§:e of beans. 

Soak over night a half-cupful of dried beans 
in a quart of cold water. 

In the morning throw away the water, cover 
with a pint of fresh cold water, add a slice of 
lightly browned salt pork (but not the grease), 
a slice of onion, a quarter of a teaspoon ful of 
salt, and cook until the beans are mushy. 
Strain, add to the liquor a half-teaspoonful of 
butter nibbed with the same of flour, boil up, 

136 



Catering for Cwo. 137 

and add enough boiling milk to make the soup 
of an agreeable consistency, with salt and pep- 
per to taste. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Mash two cupfuls of boiled potatoes and three 
tablespoon fuls of hot milk, in which is melted 
a tablespoon ful of butter and a third of a tea- 
spoonful of salt. 

Whip to a cream with a fork, form into egg- 
shaped rolls, dip, when cold, into cracker-dust, 
then into beaten egg, and fry in a frying-basket 
in deep hot lard. 

Try first a small piece of bread to ascertain 
the amount of heat. If too hot the croquettes 
will bum ; if not hot enough they will soak fat, 
which renders them unfit to eat. 

If preferred, they may be browned in a spoon- 
ful of butter. 

BOILED BEETS. 

Select three beets of equal size, wash care- 
fully so as not to break the skins, and do not 
trim the stalks too closely, as they will bleed 
and lose their sweetness. Cook in a steamer, 
and when tender put into cold water long 
enough to enable you to slip the skins off. 

Serve hot, sliced, with butter, pepper, and 
salt, or heat two tablespoonfuls of cider vine- 



I 



138 Catering tor tlwo. 

gar, add a tablespoonful of butter, with salt and 
pepper, and pour this dressing over them. 
Serve hot. 

While cooking, do not pierce the beets any 
oftener than is necessary ; the time for cooking 
will be from one to three hours, according to 
their age. 

ONIONS BAKED IN MII.K. 

Peel and slice thin three cupfuls of white on- 
ions. Put in a deep earthen dish, dredge with 
a tablespoonful of flour and a little pepper, dot 
with a lump of butter the size of half an egg, 
and pour on a cupful of rich milk. 

Bake in a good oven half an hour, sprinkle 
on a half-teaspoonful of salt, and serve in the 
baking-dish. 

TOMATO MARMALADE. 

One quart of ripe tomatoes, skinned and 
sliced. Put on the stove, with half a cupful of 
cider vinegar, one third of a cup of sugar, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoon ful of mixed 
ground spices ; cook slowly, and stir often with 
a wooden spoon. 

When reduced to a little less than one half, 
it is done. 

Put away in tumblers covered with brandied 
paper. Canned tomatoes may be used, but are 
not so good. 



Catering tor ZTwo. 139 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

Lay one dozen asparagus stalks, boiled in 
salted water, on a salad dish, and serve with a 
simple French dressing of vinegar, oil, salt, 
and pepper. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Heat one and one quarter cups of rich milk 
with half a square of chocolate, stirring con- 
stantly until the chocolate is dissolved ; then 
add two rounded tablespoonfuls of corn-starch 
mixed with a quarter of a cup of cold milk. Let 
this boil for ten minutes in a saucepan of boil- 
ing water ; then add the yolk of an egg beaten 
with one tablespoonful of sugar and a pinch of 
salt. 

Beat well, cook one minute, flavor with half 
a teaspoonful of vanilla, turn into a mould, and 
serve ice cold with the following sauce : 

Froth the white of the egg, and whip it into 
half a cup of boiling milk, sweetened with a 
tablespoonful of sugar, add a few grains of salt, 
and flavor with half a teaspoonful of vanilla 
and a dust of nutmeg. Set on ice. 



XXIII. 

Clam chowder. 

Salad of cold meat. 

Cream cheese. Crackers. 

Blackberry pudding. 

Tea or cofifee. Cream nut candies. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 
(One dozen clams.) 

Peel and slice very thinly a cupful of raw po- 
tatoes ; add a thinly sliced, medium-sized onion, 
and a cupful of boiling water, with a tablespoon- 
ful of fried salt pork (without the grease), and 
boil gently until the vegetables are tender ; 
then add a half-cupful of stewed tomatoes. 

When this boils, add the strained clam juice 
(there should be about a cupful), and skim, 
after boiling up. Now stir in a tablespoonful 
of butter, blended with half a teaspoonful of 
flour. 

Boil a few minutes, and add the clams, 
chopped very fine in the chopping-bowl, or 
meat-grinder. 

140 



i 



Catering for ^wo. 141 

Allow the chowder to come quickly to a boil, 
and remove from the fire immediately. 

Simmering or long boiling will make clams 
tough and indigestible. Pour into a hot tureen, 
and set in the oven until wanted. 

COLD MEAT SALAD. 

Any cold meat of the white kind, such as veal, 
lamb, or poultry ; cut a cupful into small pieces 
without the fat, add salt and pepper, and mix 
with the same amount of celery, cut up, or 
watercresses. 

Heap upon lettuce leaves ; the large outside 
leaves will answer. Pour on a salad dressing 
of any preferred kind, and serve ice cold. 

The crisp inner parts of white cabbage may 
be used if other greens are not obtainable. 

The following dressing may be used : 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Stir the yolk of an egg with two tablespoon- 
fuls of either olive-oil or melted butter ; add 
one tablespoonful of vinegar in which has been 
dissolved a salt-spoonful of salt, a small pinch 
of cayenne, and a large pinch of mustard. 

BLACKBERRY PUDDING. 

Take half a cupful of flour and mix with it 
half a teaspoonful of baking-powder and a large 



142 Catering for Cwo. 

pinch of salt. Sift several times. Cut into this, 
with a knife, an even dessert-spoonful of butter 
and add one fovurth of a cup of milk. The mix- 
ture should be quite soft. 

With a spoon spread it on the bottom of a 
baking-dish or cake-mold, cover the paste with 
a thick layer of blackberries, and steam half an 
hour in a steamer, or bake in the oven with a 
cover over the dish. Serve with sugar and 
cream, or with a creamy hard sauce. 

Cherries or huckleberries, apples or peaches, 
may be used in the same way. 



XXIV. 

Clam soup. 

Round steak with onions. 

Yellow turnips and potatoes mashed together. 

' Baked Hubbard squash. 

Celery. 

Sweet-clover cheese. Crackers. 

Steamed pudding with oranges or canned or 

stewed fruit. 

Tea or coflFee. Chocolate creams. 

CI.AM SOUP. 

Drain the jtiice from a dozen clams and put it 
on the stove to scald. If soft-shell clams are 
used, first wash them thoroughly in their own 
liquor, with the addition of a half-cup of cold 
water, and strain through cheese-cloth. Chop 
the clams very fine and add to the juice when it 
reaches the boiling-point : boil up quickly once 
and immediately remove to a part of the stove 
where they will merely keep hot. The longer 
clams boil, the tougher and more indigestible 

143 



144 Catering tor ^wo. 

they become. Do not even allow them to sim- 
mer after the first quick boil. 

In another saucepan put two cupfuls of rich 
milk (skimmed milk will never produce the best 
results), and when it boils add a tablespoonful 
of butter blended with an even teaspoonful of 
flour, and a small pinch of cayenne pepper. Boil 
a moment and set where it will keep hot, but 
not cook. 

When ready to serve, pour the clams into the 
milk, stir and serve immediately in hot soup 
plates with any preferred crackers. * 

BEEFSTEAK AND ONIONS (FRIED). 

Round steak is usually preferred for this dish. 
Cut off a piece measuring about five inches 
square. Pound to a jelly with a hammer on a 
meat-block or old pie tin. 

Slice four medium-sized onions after peeling, 
put them into a frying-pan with a cup of boiling 
water, and stew until the water is all gone ; do 
not stir. 

Then add a little salt and pepper, and a heap- 
ing tablespoonful of butter, and fry until the 
onions are a fine brown. 

Fry the steak in a hot frying pan, and do not 
salt until it is on the platter. Then add salt and 
butter, pile the onions on top and serve immedi- 
ately. 



i 



Catering tor ^wo. 145 

POTATOES AND TURNIPS MASHED TO- 
GETHER. 

Wash, peel, and slice iu inch-thick slices, 
enough yellow (Rutabaga) turnips to fill a pint 
bowl. Cover with boiling water, and cook 
rapidly thirty or forty minutes. When tender, 
drain and mash fine ; pass through the potato- 
press, or mash fine a pint bowl of hot boiled 
potatoes and add to the turnips, season with 
a teaspoouful of salt, beat well together and 
heap in a dish, smoothing the top over with a 
knife-blade. 

Make a long deep trench, on top of which 
put a lump of butter the size of a small egg. 

Set in a hot oven until wanted. 

Next day, slice, dredge with flour, and fry in 
salt-pork drippings or butter. 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Cut a slice four inches thick from a fine 
Hubbard squash. 

Remove the seeds, place on a baking-dish, 
cover closely, and bake in a hot oven for an 
hour, or until soft. 

Then scrape squash from the rind, mash, 
season with a spoonful of butter, salt and 
pepper to taste, pile on a vegetable-dish, 
and keep hot in the oven until wanted ; or 
send to the table on a platter, just as it comes 



146 Catering for XLvqo, 

from the oven, in which case each person will 
season his own portion. 

STEAMED PUDDING WITH ORANGES. 

Sift three times, one even half-cupful of flour, 
with one half rounded teaspoon ful of baking- 
powder and one third even teaspoonful of salt. 

Cut into this one heaping teaspoonful of 
ice-cold butter with a knife. Add three heap- 
ing tablespoon fuls of cold milk, stir together 
lightly and quickly, using a spoon for the pur- 
pose, put into a buttered mold or bowl and set 
in a steamer for half on hour. When done, 
turn into a shallow pudding-dish and serve 
with the following sauce : Cook for ten min- 
utes one half cupful of boiling water, a few 
grains of salt, and two heaping tablespoonfuls 
of granulated sugar. Then add a half-teas- 
poonful of corn -starch, wet with one spoonful 
of cold water, cook and add a teaspoonful of 
caramel and a fine orange which has been 
peeled and cut into pieces the size of nutmegs. 
When this is thoroughly hot, but not boiling, 
pour over the pudding. 

Pass with this pudding, a hard sauce made 
of one tablespoonful of butter stirred to a cream, 
the half of a raw egg yolk, and half a cupful of 
confectioner's sugar, beaten together until very 
light. Flavor with a pinch of grated orange- 
rind. 



I 

I 



Catering for Zvoo. 147 

If canned cherries or fruit are used instead 
of oranges, heat them for a few minutes and 
add more sugar to the juice. 

Only the egg sauce will be needed with can- 
ned or stewed fruit. 

AFTBR-DINNBR COFFEE. 

Mix two dessert-spoonfuls of coffee ground 
moderately fine with a scant teaspoonful of 
raw egg and two dessert-spoonfuls of cold 
water. 

Pour on this two thirds of a cup of boiling 
water, stir, cover closely, and let it boil up ; 
then remove from the fire immediately. 

Let it stand, to settle, a few minutes, and strain 
into a hot coffee-pot through a wet cheese-cloth 
laid on a wire strainer. 

In this way the last drop of coffee will be 
perfectly clear. 



XXV. 

Raw oysters or clams. 

Fresh ham. Savory stuffing. 

Apple sauce (hot or cold). 

Breaded turnips. 

Baked sweet potatoes. 

Green tomato chili sauce. 

French bread. Butter. 

Celery or any salad of the chicory family. 

Roquefort cheese on brown-bread fingers. 

Princess cream, or pineapple with floating 

island. 

Wafers, or sponge cake. 

Tea or coffee. California grapes. 



Alternative : Roast duck. Onion stuffing. 

Potato balls (baked). 

Spiced peaches. 

Corn-starch pudding, or chocolate jelly with 

custard. 

FRESH HAM. 
Order a small fresh pig ham. Have one third 

148 



I 



Catering tor tlwo. 149 

of it sliced off from the large end for frying 
(this maybe left in the butcher's ice-chest until 
needed) ; the remaining part should be boned 
and trimmed for roasting. 

Put a quart of bread-crumbs a little stale in 
a bowl, pour over enough boiling water to 
make a pliable paste, stir in a tablespoonful of 
thyme, a teaspoonful of salt, a half-teaspoonful 
of black pepper, one pinch of red pepper, and 
a rounded dessert-spoonful of butter. Work 
this into a mass, and stuff the ham with it. 
Dredge thoroughly with flour, pepper liberally, 
and set on a meat-rack in a dripping-pan. 

The oven should be quite hot for the first 
hour. At the end of this time pour a cup of 
boiling water in the pan, and moderate the fire. 
Bake three hours slowly. 

Salt the meat, and if it is not brown, quicken 
the fire with kindlings, and set in the oven for 
fifteen minutes longer. Make the gravy by 
blending a tablespoonful of flour with two 
tablespoon fuls of cold water; pour in a cupful 
of boiling water and add to the dripping-pan. 
Salt to taste, boil up, skim off the fat and serve 
in a gravy-boat. 

For succeeding meals serve the ham sliced 
cold with hot gravy. 

BREADED TURNIPS. 
Peel and boil until tender one large white 



ISO Catering for ^wo. 

turnip. When cold, slice in four slices, bread 
with saltine cracker dust, and brown in a half- 
teaspoonful of butter in a frying-pan. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Brush clean two or three sweet potatoes of 
one size, and bake in a moderate oven, from an 
hour to an hour and a half, according to the 
size of the potatoes and the heat of the oven. 
When done the}- should feel soft and yielding 
when pressed with the fingers. Try them occa- 
sionally while cooking with a fork. 

Any that are left over may be peeled, sliced, 
and broiled ; butter and salt them as soon as 
they leave the gridiron. 

They may also be browned in the oven by 
brushing with butter and sprinkling with sugar. 

GREEN TOMATO CHILI SAUCE. 

One quart of sliced green tomatoes, one pint 
of sliced white onions, two chopped green pep- 
pers, one heaping tablespoonful of salt ; mix 
all together and set away in an earthen dish over- 
night. 

Next morning drain thoroughly, chop into 
peas, pour over one pint of cider vinegar, add 
one teaspoonful of mixed ground spice (cinna- 
mon, cloves, allspice, and nutmeg), one table- 
spoonful of brown sugar, and cook slowly for 
twenty minutes. 



Catering for ^wo. 151 

Add a red-pepper pod to the sauce, and let it 
remain until peppery enough. Add more salt 
if needed. Keep in a cool place in a stone jar, 
tightly covered. A few mustard seeds may be 
added, also chopped celery and grated horse- 
radish if liked. 

PRINCESS CREAM. 

Soak for half an hour one rounded table- 
spoonful of gelatine and a pinch of salt in four 
tablespoonfuls of rich milk. Beat the yolk of 
one egg with two tablespoonfuls of granulated 
sugar and a tiny pinch of salt until creamy, 
and add one cupful of boiling milk. 

Set this in another saucepan containing boil- 
ing water, and boil and stir four minutes. 

Now add the gelatine, cook (stirring) for one 
minute, take from the fire, and whip in the 
white of the egg, which has been beaten to a 
stiff froth. 

Flavor with three fourths of a teaspoonful of 
vanilla, or, ^'f preferred, a little sherry. 

Pour into a glass dish, and serve ice cold with 
cake or wafers. 

Princess cream should be made the day be- 
fore it is to be used, in summer, and kept on 
ice until wanted. 

In cold weather it may be made in the morn- 
ing if it is to be used at a late dinner. 

Spread the Sea-foam cream over the top, 



152 Catering Tor ^wo. 

delicately flavored with caramel, wine, or 
coffee. 
Serve with caramel cream sauce. 

PINEAPPLE WITH FLOATING ISLAND. 

Peel and remove the eyes from a fine ripe 
pineapple. Tear shreds from it with a fork 
and throw away the core. Sugar to taste, and 
serve ice cold, with floating island in separate 
dishes or on the same plates, as preferred. 

In the opinion of many cooks, pineapples are 
more delicious and also more healthful if 
allowed to lie covered in wine, several hours be- 
fore serving. 

Bananas may be sliced and served with the 
floating island instead of pineapple ; sugar to 
taste, pour orange juice over them, and serve 
ice cold. 

The floating island must also be as cold as 
possible. 

DUCK, ROASTED (THREE POUNDS). 
ONION STUFFING. 

Rinse the duck quickly in cold water, wipe, 
and stuff with a quart of bread-crumbs moistened 
with one cup of water, and the following season- 
ing : one half a teaspoonful of pepper, two tea- 
spoonfuls of thyme, a half- teaspoonful of salt, 
one heaping teaspoonful of butter, one table- 
spoonful of chopped fat salt pork, and one 



Catering for ^wo. 153 

small onion finely minced. Sew up with coarse 
thread, pepper, salt, and dredge with flour, and 
roast two hours (covered) in a moderate oven. 

The duck should be placed on a meat-rack, 
and a cup of boiling water must be poured in 
the pan when it goes in the oven. 

Stew the giblets in a cupful of boiling water, 
chop, add salt, a teaspoonful of flour, stir in the 
water they were cooked in, and add to the 
gravy in the roasting-pan . 

POTATO BAIvLS (BAKED). 

Take mashed potatoes seasoned for the table, 
form into egg-shaped rolls, and brown in a hot 
oven on a buttered tin. 

These make an attractive border for a platter 
of meat. 

BAKED CORN-STARCH LEMON ME- 
RINGUE PUDDING. 

Heat one cupful of milk, and when at the boil- 
ing point stir in an even tablespoonful of corn- 
starch blended with a teaspoonful of best 
butter; cook one minute, stirring constantly, 
and add the yolk of one egg beaten with two 
tablespoon fuls of granulated sugar, the grated 
rind of a quarter and the juice of half a lemoo, 
and a pinch of salt. 

Pour this mixture into an earthen baking- 
dish and bake twenty minutes. 



L 



154 Catering tor ITwo. 

Take from the oven, add the white of the egg 
whisked to a stiflF froth, to which has been 
added, after frothing, three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and a tiny pinch of salt. Brown deli- 
cately in the oven and serve cold. 

CHOCOLATE JELLY WITH CUSTARD. 

Soak, then melt, four heaping teaspoonfuls 
of gelatine in two tablespoonfuls of cold water. 

Add one cupful of boiling water, two pinches 
of salt, and two rounded tablespoonfuls of gran- 
ulated sugar. 

Melt in a double boiler one square of choco- 
late, then add two tablespoonfuls of boiling 
water, stir and cook until thick (time, about a 
quarter of a minute). 

Now add very gradually, stirring constantly, 
half a cupful of boiling water, and when per- 
fectly smooth, take from the fire ; when cool, 
stir in the cooled gelatine, set in a pan of ice- 
water, and stir from the bottom and sides until 
thick enough to prevent the chocolate from 
settling. 

Pour into a mould, set on ice, and when 
solid, serve with a custard made in the follow- 
ing way : 

Beat the yolks of two eggs with two table- 
spoonfuls of granulated sugar and a pinch of 
salt ; add one cupful of boiling milk and cook 
in the double boiler five minutes (longer cook- 



Catering tor ^wo. 155 

ing may curdle the mixture). Add half a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, or a spoonful of brandy or 
cordial, or any flavoring preferred. (lycmon, 
rose, or almond does not blend well with choco- 
late.) 

Use the whites of the eggs in the following 
for another meal. 

BAKED APPLES WITH MERINGUE. 

Peel six Greening or Baldwin apples, core, 
fill with sugar, cover, and bake in a hot oven. 
When nearly done, remove the cover, brown 
and pile upon each apple a spoonful of frothed 
white of eggs beaten with one cup of sugar. 
Return to the oven and brown lightly. 

Serve very cold. 



XXVI. 

Consommd with green peas. 

Ham, baked, with or without tomatoes. 

Hashed or stewed potatoes. Cream gravy. 

Fried cabbage. Fried apples. 

Hot biscuits with butter. 

Olives. 

String-bean salad. 

Cream cheese. Biscuits. 

Rice pudding, baked, 

or 

Baked apples, cream and sugar, 

or 

Sultana pudding. 

Chocolate, tea, or coffee. Fruit. 

CONSOMM^ WITH GREEN PEAS. 

Heat one and one half cupfuls of stock sea- 
soned with onions, carrots, and the savory soup 
herbs. Add a tablespoon ful of cooked peas, 
and two lengths of spaghetti broken into inch 
pieces. 

Any other diced or small vegetable may be 
substituted for the peas. 

156 



Catering for Zvoo. 157 

BAKED SMOKED HAM. 

One slice of ham one inch thick. 

When found too salt ham may be made very 
palatable by soaking for an hour in a cupful of 
sweet milk. Cut oflF the rind and put the ham 
in an earthen pudding-dish which is just large 
enough to hold it without folding. Sprinkle 
over it an even teaspoonful of granulated sugar, 
a dust of pepper, and a teaspoonful of flour. 
Cover closely and bake in a slow oven two 
hours ; then add the cupful of milk in which it 
was soaked, unless the milk has curdled, in 
which case substitute fresh, boil up once, and 
serve in the dish it was baked in or on a deep 
platter. 

Ham baked with tomatoes, either fresh or 
canned, is a most appetizing dish, the acid of 
the tomato and the salt of the ham blending 
most agreeably. 

After freshening, sugaring, and dredging with 
flour, place on top of the slice of ham a large 
tomato, skinned and sliced. 

Dredge this also with flour and pepper, and 
bake. A spoonful of butter may be added if 
the ham is not very fat ; the fatter the ham the 
sweeter and more tender it will be. Do not use 
the milk in which the ham was freshened, with 
tomatoes. 



158 Catcrinc} for Zvoo, 

HASHED OR STEWED POTATOES. 
CREAM GRAVY. 

Slice very thin a heaping cupful of cold baked 
potatoes ; dredge with a teaspoonful of flour, a 
third of a teaspoonful of salt, and a dust of 
pepper. 

Put a heaping teaspoonful of butter in a sauce- 
pan with a half-cupful of milk, and when hot, 
add the potatoes, stir once, and cook covered, 
about eight minutes, without further stirring ; 
the slices should lie lightly in the gravy and be 
unbroken. 

Water will not take the place of milk, which 
must be fresh and rich. If milk is not at hand, 
fry the potatoes in a little butter. 

FRIED CABBAGE. 

Cut into shavings enough cabbage to fill a 
quart measure ; sprinkle with an even half-tea- 
spoonful of salt, pour on two cups of boiling 
water, and cook rapidly until the cabbage be- 
comes dry. Then add a tablespoonful of butter, 
two of milk, dust with pepper, and fry brown. 
Serve hot. 

FRIED APPLES. 

Slice two large Greening apples with a 
teaspoonful of melted butter. Pour over a des- 
sertspoonful of water, and two heaping table- 



Catering for ^wo, 159 

spoonfuls of sugar. Put dots of butter all over 
the top (a piece as large as a pea every two 
inches apart), cover closely, and fry gently with- 
out stirring until the bottom of the apples is 
a rich brown. 

If cooked too fast they will burn and be bit- 
ter ; twenty minutes or half an hour slow cook- 
ing will be about right. Cook in an earthen 
dish or agate pie plate. 

BAKING-POWDER BISCUITS. 

One cupful of flour sifted with one teaspoon- 
ful of baking-powder and one fourth of a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Cut into this one heaping 
tablespoonful of butter and add a half-cupful of 
milk. Dredge with flour, cut into small pieces, 
pat each one into a ball, flatten lightly and lay 
them in a greased pan as close together as possi- 
ble, and bake at once in a hot oven ; fifteen 
minutes will be about the right time. This is 
the rule for pot-pies and stew-pies, although 
less shortening is required for these. 

Pot-pies are made of meat, stew-pies of fruit. 
The dough is steamed on top of the meat (or 
fruit) instead of being baked as for biscuits. 
Time, about ten minutes. This dough is also 
called crust or dumplings. For pot-pie it is put 
in after the meat is done. 

For stew-pies, put the fruit in a kettle with 
sugar and a dust of flour with a few spoonfuls 



i6o Catering tor ^wo^ 

of water, lay the crust, made into little walnut- 
shaped balls, on top ; cover the pot closely, and 
as soon as boiling begins, count the time. 

Remember it is the steam which cooks dump- 
lings ; if the dough is submerged in the juices 
or gravy it will be soggy. 

In serving, use plenty of gravy, and make an 
extra sauce for the stew-pies. 

One half of the rule is enough for two persons. 
Suet makes a delicious shortening, using a little 
more salt, and ice-water instead of milk. 

STRING-BEAN SALAD. 

Wash a dozen fresh, crisp string-beans, and 
steam in a steamer until tender. 

Pull off the strings, salt, and serve them 
whole, on a lettuce leaf. 

Garnish with a raw tomato sliced. 

Use any dressing preferred. 

RICE PUDDING (BAKED). 

Stir into a pint of rich, fresh milk two heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, a salt- 
spoonful of salt, and one tablespoonful of rice. 
Flavor with lemon rind, grated from a quarter 
of a lemon, and nutmeg. 

Bake in an earthen dish in a very slow oven 
three hours. Keep the dish covered until the 
last twenty minutes. 



I 



Catering tor ^wo. i6i 

Serve very cold. 

Add more salt, if needed, before baking. 

BAKED APPLES WITH CREAM. 

Wipe carefully four Greening apples of equal 
size. Baldwins or Spitzenbergs will answer, but 
Greenings are best. 

Remove the cores from the blossom end, 
making a little well in each ; use an apple-corer 
or a broad knife rounded at the end of the blade. 

Place the apples in a deep earthen pie dish, 
and put a heaping tablespoonful of granulated 
sugar in each apple with an extra spoonful over 
all. 

Pour on the bottom of the dish a half-cup of 
boiling water, set in a moderate oven, and bake 
from an hour to an hour and a half, according 
to the size of the apples and the heat of the 
oven. 

When done, place them carefully in the dish 
they are to be served in, and when cold pour 
over them the jelly that exuded while baking. 
Do not make the mistake of not eating the 
skins. If the apples have been cooked slowly 
enough, the skins will be deliciously tender 
and rich. 

Serve with cream and powdered sugar. 

SULTANA PUDDING 
One cupful of flour, one teaspoon baking- 



i62 Catering for XLvoo. 

powder, one third of a teaspoon salt, one cupful 
Sultana raisins, one half-cupful rich milk, one 
tablespoonful sugar, yolk of one egg. 

Sift flour, salt, and baking-powder together 
several times, and stir in the raisins, which have 
been picked over, rinsed, and dried in the oven. 

Stir egg and milk together, add sugar, and 
then the flour, etc. 

Steam for an hour in a buttered mould ; cover 
the steamer, but leave the mould open. Serve 
with a sauce made of one cupful of confection- 
er's sugar, a scant half-cupful of butter, and 
brandy to taste. Add the frothed white of the 
egg, and beat about ten minutes. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Put one cupful of rich milk into a saucepan, 
add one third of a square of chocolate, and cook, 
stirring constantly (using a wooden or silver 
spoon), until the chocolate is all dissolved. 

Use a double kettle, or a saucepan set in an- 
other of boiling water. Chocolate should never 
be grated, but put into cold milk in large pieces ; 
grating results in loss of oil and flavor. One 
and one half squares will make a quart. 

Do not use any water. 

A spoonful of whipped cream added to each 
cup when serving is an elegant addition. 

Sweeten to taste. 



XXVII. 

Corn soup. 

Pot-roast (under-round or cross-rib). 

Fried potatoes. Stewed tomatoes. 

Bread and butter. 

Olives. Grape or crab-apple jelly. 

Lettuce or cauliflower. HoUandaise sauce. 

Cream cheese. Brown-bread fingers. 

Huckleberry or squash pie, or banana pudding 

meringue. 

Tea or coffee. Fruit. 



Alternative : Broiled chicken or porter-house 

steak (broiled). 

Charlotte russe or queen's pudding. 

CORN SOUP. 

Chop, or grate, a cupful of corn, add a slice 
of onion, a dessert-spoonful of butter, and an 
even teaspoonful of flour. Boil these in a pint 
of milk ten minutes, and then pour it upon an 
egg lightly beaten, stirring briskly. Add salt 
and pepper to taste, and strain back into the 
163 



i64 Catering for XLxoo. 

saucepan ; boil up once, take from the fire im- 
mediately, or the egg will curdle, and serve 
with small oyster-crackers. 

POT-ROAST. 
(Under-round or cross-rib, two pounds.) 

Trim the meat free of all dried skin and dried 
fat, and brown all sides in a hot spider ; then 
put it in an agate-ware pot, pour on one cupful 
of boiling water, cover closely, and boil for a 
minute ; turn the meat, and boil the other side. 
This is necessary, in order to seal up the rich 
juices of the meat, which would otherwise drip 
out into the gravy, leaving the meat dry and 
tasteless. Remove the meat to a platter, put in 
the pot a meat-rack tall enough to have its upper 
side at least two inches above the surface of the 
water, to prevent the meat from coming in con- 
tact with the water when it boils. 

Dredge the meat all over with flour, dust on 
black pepper, place it on the rack, cover the 
pot closely, and cook gently, but steadily, three 
hours, adding more water occasionally from the 
boiling-kettle if it cooks away. 

Always try to keep the original amount of 
water (one cupful). 

Three or four pepper-corns may be added. 

At the end of two and a half hours, add a 
half-teaspoonful of salt, sprinkling it over the 
meat, and a tablespoonful of parsley. 



I 



Catering tor ^wo. 165 

Remove the rack, and stir into the gravy a 
dessert-spoonful of flour blended with a few 
spoonfuls of cold water, and salt to taste. Re- 
cover the pot, and resume the cooking, only 
simmering gently for this last half-hour. Serve 
the meat on a warm platter, garnished with 
parsley or celery, and put the gravy in a sauce- 
boat. If fat is desired, fry delicately a piece of 
suet, and place beside the meat. 

For a second meal, cook two lamb's kidneys 
(chopped) in a cupful of water, with one sliced 
onion, a tablespoonful of fried, diced, salt pork, 
a pinch of cayenne, salt to taste, and flour to 
thicken. Add the pot-roast, and boil up. 

Pass cold spiced tomato sauce. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Heat very hot a tablespoonful of drippings 
from salt pork, or the same amount of butter, 
being careful not to let them burn. Slice two 
medium-sized potatoes (baked or boiled) in 
quarter inch slices, and fry a rich brown, un- 
covered. If the pan is covered the potatoes 
will be flabby instead of crisp. 

After dishing, sprinkle with salt and pepper 
and serve immediately. If preferred the pota- 
toes may be broiled. 

Spread each side of the slices with butter, and 
broil over a clear hot fire ; season with salt and 
pepper and an extra lump of butter before serving. 



i66 Catering for Cwo. 

CAUUFLOWER, HOLLANDAISE OR 
CREAM SAUCE. 

Cut a fourth of a medium-sized cauliflower in 
four parts, salt, and steam, until tender, in a 
steamer, or wrap in a napkin and boil in a quart 
of boiling water (salted) twenty minutes. 

Serve with Hollandaise sauce, or make a 
cream sauce of a tablespoonful of butter blended 
with a teaspoonful of flour and cooked with a 
half-cup of boiling milk. 

Add a pinch of salt and a dust of pepper. 

Pour the cream over the cauliflower and lay 
a slice of lemon on each piece. 

Fine white cabbage may be boiled and served 
the same way. 

Serve as a separate course with brown bread 
cut in finger-lengths. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Cut in half, scrape out the seeds, and peel one 
part of a Hubbard squash. 

Steam until tender in a steamer, or boil in 
salted water. 

Mash fine ; a heaping cupful will make the 
pie. Put the rest away for other pies, or to use 
as a vegetable ; it will keep several days in a 
cold place in cool weather. 

Line a pie dish with pie-crust and bake as di- 
rected for other pies, while beating the yolk of 
an egg with four tablespoonfuls of granulated 



Catering tor Cwo. 167 

sugar, a half-teaspoon ful of ground ginger, a 
half-teaspoon ful of salt, and two thirds of a cup 
of hot milk poured on slowly, stirring all the 
time. Add a heaping teaspoonful of butter and 
a heaping cup of the hot mashed squash, a half- 
teaspoonful of flour, and a little grated nutmeg. 
Beat all together, and add the white of the egg 
beaten to a stiff froth. Beat thoroughly, pour 
into the pie pan, sprinkle with a teaspoonful 
of sugar, and bake in a quick oven ten or fifteen 
minutes. 

HUCKLEBERRY PIE. 

Use two large, deep saucers, as these will hold 
plenty of juice. Put in each one a cupful of 
huckleberries which have been looked over and 
washed. 

Sprinkle with a tablespoonful of sugar, and 
the same of water, and cover with a flaky crust 
a little smaller than the top of the saucer ; bake 
twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

Heat, mash, and strain through a coarse cloth 
wrung out of cold water, either a cupful of ripe 
currants or blackberries, and mix with this juice 
nearly a cupful of sugar, into which has been 
stirred a teaspoonful of flour. Cook a minute, 
and when the pies come from the oven, raise 
the crust and pour this juice over the huckle- 
berries. 

Replace the crust and serve either hot or cold. 



i68 Catering toe ^wo. 

BANANA PUDDING MBRINGUK. 

Beat the yolk of one egg with two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar and a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
salt ; add the juice of half a tart orange and a 
cupful of milk, and pour this over a cupful of 
bread-crumbs (two or three days old) and one 
banana sliced and laid in alternate layers in a 
deep earthen pudding-dish. Bake twenty min- 
utes in a hot oven. 

Whisk the white of the egg to a stiff froth, 
add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and after 
beating well, add the juice from the remainder 
of the orange and a pinch of grated rind ; 
spread this upon the pudding and brown in the 
oven a few minutes. 

BROILED CHICKEN. 

Order a plump young chicken split for broil- 
ing. Wipe with a towel, and brush all over 
inside and out with melted butter or olive oil. 
Lay it on a broiler over a slow fire and broil 
twenty minutes, turning often to prevent burn- 
ing. 

Cook the inside first, to seal up the juices. 

Lay, now, on a small rack (skin side down) in 
a spider which contains a large spoonful of but- 
ter and a half-cup of hot water ; cover closely 
and simmer twenty minutes to a half-hour, or 
bake in the oven for the same length of time. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, add a little pars- 



Catering tor ^wo. 169 

ley, and pour over any juice or butter left in 
the spider. 

If the chicken is not tender, simmer longer, 
with the addition of a little water, if it boils 
away. Any left over may be re-heated on the 
broiler. 

PORTER-HOUSE STEAK (BROILED). 

A medium-sized porter-house steak one and 
a quarter inches in thickness will make three 
meals for two moderate eaters, two broils and 
a hash. 

Lay the steak on the meat-board, and with a 
sharp knife trim off the outer edge of the fat, 
which is always bitter from long contact with 
the air. Do not take oflF more than is necessary, 
as steak without a supply of fat is not delicious. 
Broil a piece of suet extra if it lacks a suflBi- 
cient quantity. 

Cut off the long coarse end, and remove the 
bone. Divide the remainder into two even 
portions, and put away one for another meal. 

Broil the piece that is left, using a wire broiler 
in which the wires are about a third of an inch 
apart. 

If a heavy iron broiler is used, it must be 
thoroughly heated before the meat goes on it. 
Have the fire a glowing, but not a fierce bed of 
coals. A fierce fire burns and hardens the 
meat before it is cooked through. 



I70 Catering for Zwo, 

Do not use the broiler door with which most 
ranges are supplied, but remove the lid from 
the hottest place of the range and set the steak 
here to broil. 

To keep the vSmoke from entering the house, 
open all the draughts, and put a tin cover over 
the broiler ; every time the steak is turned 
with one hand, the cover is lifted with the 
other. 

Broiled meats should be seared immediately 
to keep in the juices. 

Count at first one hundred for each side ; 
if the fire is very hot, fifty counts will be 
enough to begin on ; then turn every ten 
counts, until four hundred have been counted. 
A steak an inch thick will most likely be done 
by this time, but to be certain open the broiler, 
and cut into the meat with a sharp knife ; if 
not done enough, broil a few turns longer. 

To be properly cooked it should be brown 
without, pink inside, and the gravy which runs 
from the cut should be red. 

Have the platter warmed but not hot, sprinkle 
the steak with salt, and add butter the size of 
a walnut. 

The steak is the last thing to be cooked for 
the meal, and everything else should be ready 
before beginning to broil it. 

Serve immediately. 

Here are several ways of treating the coarse 
end for little breakfast dishes. 



Catering tor XLvoo, 171 

Reduced to a pulp by passing it through a 
meat-grinder (or chopped in the chopping- 
bowl) it may then be made into a round flat 
cake and broiled the same as the steak, oi* 
fried and served with fried onions. 

If broiled, serve with two slices of salt pork 
fried a delicate brown, and potatoes sliced and 
browned in the grease from the pork. 

Put the meat in the centre of a platter and 
arrange the potatoes around it with slices of 
lemon as a garnish. 

Another way is to fry it (the coarse end) in a 
small closely covered vessel until it is so tender 
that it can be cut without tearing. This will 
take from an hour to an hour and a half. Turn 
frequently and fry slowly. The edge of fat 
surrounding it will furnish enough grease for 
frying. 

When cold, trim off the fat and throw it 
away ; chop the meat fine, dredge with flour, 
add salt and pepper, and warm up with a few 
spoonfuls of milk or water, and a teaspoonful 
of butter. 

Place upon toasted bread dipped in boiling, 
salted water, and then buttered. Pour over 
all hot spiced tomato sauce or sauce espagnole, 
and serve with fried potatoes. Ends of lamb 
chops may be cooked in the same way. An- 
other way is to put the bone into water and 
boil until the scraps of meat and gristle drop 
away, then remove the bone, add a table- 



172 Catering for a;wo. 

spoonful of browned salt pork without the 
grease, an inch of carrot, a slice of onion, and 
the coarse end of the steak. 

Cook gently about two hours, keeping the 
meat barely covered with water. Then remove 
the vegetables, add salt to taste, and when 
cold take off the fat. Chop with one third as 
much cold potato, dredge with flour, and warm 
up with gravy in which the meat was cooked. 
This is a delicious hash. 

SPICED TOMATO SAUCE TO BE SERVED 
WITH COLD MEATS, STEWS OR HASH. 

I onion chopped fine, i quart of ripe toma- 
toes, I small red-pepper pod or half of an even 
teaspoonful of cayenne, i teaspoonful of salt, 
2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, i teaspoonful of mixed 
ground spices (mace, cloves, allspice, and cin- 
namon), I cupful of genuine cider vinegar. 

Boil tomatoes and vinegar together two hours. 

The tomatoes should be skinned and sliced 
if fresh ones are used. 

Add onion and other ingredients and cook 
another hour. 

If a smooth sauce is liked strain through a 
sieve. Keep in a cool place, covered. 



Catering for ^wo. 173 

CHARLOTTE RUSSB. 

Place slices of stale cake in a covered dish, 
and set in a steamer until they become soft. 

When cold, arrange on a dish for the table, 
and pour over them Sea-foam cream flavored 
with wine. 

If preferred, whipped cream sweetened and 
flavored may be used instead. Sea-foam must 
stand on the ice awhile, but the whipped cream 
may be used immediately. 

Substitute for whipped cream must also 
stand on ice to thicken. 

QUEEN'S PUDDING. 

Scald one cupful of milk, and soak in it 
one fourth of a cupful of bread-crumbs while 
beating the yolk of an eggy with two even 
tablespoon fuls of granulated sugar, a pinch of 
salt, and the grated rind of a quarter of a 
lemon. 

Stir all together and bake in an earthen pud- 
ding-dish about fifteen minutes. Then spread 
on top a layer of jam, jelly, marmalade, or any 
rich preserves (using half a cupful), and on top 
of this the frothed white of the egg, sweetened, 
after frothing, with two tablespoonfuls of 
granulated sugar, and the juice of a quarter 
of a lemon. Return to the oven and brown 
(time, about seven minutes). 



174 Catering tor Qiwo. 

Serve cold, but not ice cold. 

This becomes a new pudding with each 
change of preserves. The bread-crumbs are 
from the bread which is dried in the oven and 
then rolled to a powder on the moulding-board. 
Measure after rolling, and be exact in measur- 
ing. 



XXVIII. 

Raw oysters. 

Roast turkey. 

Mashed potatoes. Boiled onious. 

Cranberry sauce. 

Bread and butter. Celery. 

Salted almonds or olives. 

lyettuce if desired. 

Cream cheese and wafers. 

Orange jelly (ice cold). 

Plum pudding. 

Pineapple jardinidre. 

Coffee. Cream candies. 

This menu is for Christmas Day. 
That for Thanksgiving is the same, substitut- 
ing mince pie for plum pudding. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Select a fat turkey weighing nine or ten 
pounds. After it has been drawn, trimmed, 
and singed, rinse quickly in cold water and fill 
both cavities with stufl&ng, breaking the neck 
and turning it into the upper one. 

175 



176 Catering for ^wo. 

Sew with a large darning-needle threaded with 
coarse darning-cotton, tie the legs together close 
to the body, and treat the wings the same way. 
Rub the outside of the turkey with salt, sprinkle 
over pepper and a tablespoonful of thyme, 
dredge plentifully with flour, lay on a meat- 
rack in a large dripping-pan, pour in two cups of 
water, and roast in a moderate oven from three 
to six hours, according to age. Lay a pan over 
the top to keep in the steam and juices ; this 
must be removed the last hour if the turkey is 
not brown enough. 

When half the time is up, turn the turkey 
over. 

If thin slices of fat salt pork are laid on top 
there will be no need for basting. 

The stuffing for a nine-pound turkey will re- 
quire three quarts of bread-crumbs a few days 
old, and about a pint of boiling water (a little 
more if the bread is very dry), two heaping 
tablespoon fuls of thyme, a heaping teaspoonful 
of salt, a heaping teaspoonful of black pepper, 
a heaping tablespoonful of butter, and the same 
amount of the turkey-fat, chopped. 

Mix all together thoroughly with the hand, 
see that all the lumps are dissolved and that 
butter, thyme, salt, and pepper are evenly dis- 
tributed. The mixture should be quite soft, but 
not soft enough to run. 

Put the gizzard in the dripping-pan when the 
turkey goes in ; it can hardly be cooked too 



Caterina for Zvoo. 177 

much if kept under water ; turn it frequently 
and keep an inch of water in the pan, pour- 
ing in from the boiling teakettle as it cooks 
away. 

Boil the heart and liver in a half-pint of 
water thirty minutes, and, when cold, chop in 
the chopping-bowl with the gizzard (very 
fine). 

Blend two tablespoon fuls of flour with enough 
cold water to make it like cream, pour this in 
the dripping-pan after the turkey is removed, 
add the chopped giblets with the water they 
were cooked in and an extra cupful of boiling 
water, cook a few minutes, skim off most of 
the fat, and serve. 

Put the turkey on a large platter garnished 
with celery. 

Keep the turkey-fat, covered, in a cold place, 
and use it for frying potatoes. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE (STRAINED). 

Pick over and wash a pint of cranberries. 
Put them on a slow fire in an earthen vessel 
with a cup of cold water. Cover and cook 
gently two hours. 

Then mash and strain through a coarse cloth. 
Add a cup of sugar, return to the fire, cook a 
few minutes, pour into a dish, and serve cold. 

A quart of cranberries will be needed for a 
dozen people. 



178 Catering tor Xiwo. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE (WHOLE). 

Pick over and wash two cupfuls of fine cran- 
berries. Put them in an earthen dish, pour over 
a cup of sugar, add a cupful of boiling water, 
cover, and cook gently nearly two hours. Serve 
hot or cold. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Soak four rounded teaspoonfuls of gelatine in 
two tablespoon fuls of water ten minutes. 

Add three tablespoonfuls of sugar, a scant 
cupful of boiling water, and half a cupful of 
tart orange juice. Altogether this should meas- 
ure one and a half cupfuls. 

If only sweet oranges are obtainable, add a 
spoonful of lemon juice to give the required 
acidity. Add a few grains of salt and a pinch 
of grated orange rind. In hot weather use five 
teaspoonfuls of gelatine. 

When this dish is used as a dessert, serve 
with it whipped cream, or Sea-foam cream. 

GENUINE ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One half-pound each of bread-crumbs,^ kidney 
suet, brown sugar, Zante currants, table raisins^ 
assorted candied fruits (lemon and orange peel 
and citron weighing half a pound altogether), 
sultana raisins (one pound), five eggs, one table- 
spoonful of flour, four tablespoonfuls molasses^ 
* Weigh the bread-crumbs before drying. 



Catering for XLxoo, 179 

one teaspoonful of salt (rounded), one half-tea- 
spoonful each of cinnamon and cloves, and a 
quarter of a nutmeg, one teaspoonful of ginger, 
one half-cupful of wine or brandy, or cider, if 
preferred. Wine or brandy makes a finer 
pudding, however. 

Sift flour and spices together and chop in the 
suet. Add the candied fruit and chop as fine as 
peas. 

Pick over carefully one by one the currants, 
wash in cold water, changing this until no sand 
is seen on the bottom of the dish, skimming 
the fruit out. 

Then pour over them enough boiling water 
to barely cover and let them stand to swell. 

Soak the table raisins in boiling water for a 
few minutes and take out the seeds. Pick over 
the sultanas and set them in the oven to get soft. 

Now put all the fruit together and add the 
bread-crumbs, which must be stale, dried in the 
oven, and rolled to powder. 

Beat up the eggs, add the sugar, molasses, and 
wine, and stir this well with the fruit, chopped 
suet, etc. 

Butter three tin pails having covers, each 
holding a quart, and divide the pudding between 
them ; it must have room to expand. 

Steam steadily eight hours with water half- 
way up the sides. 

Set the pails on wire tea-stands or a meat-rack. 

Serve with brandy and hard sauces. 



i8o Catering for (Two. 

WINK SAUCE FOR PIvUM PUDDING. 

Cream half a cupful of best butter and one 
and a half cupfuls of light brown sugar until 
foamy, add two heaping tablespoonfuls of flour, 
beat and stir in slowly one and a half cups of 
boiling water and an even teaspoonful of salt. 

Boil, stirring constantly, ten minutes, then 
add half a cupful of wine or brandy and serve 
hot in a sauce-boat. Color with a teaspoonful 
of caramel. 



HARD SAUCK. 

Cream half a cupful of butter, add one cupful 
of confectioner's sugar, beat fifteen minutes, 
and pile into a serving bowl. 

Grate nutmeg over the top. 

This quantity of sauce will be sufficient for 
twelve people. 

Plum pudding improves with age. It must 
be kept closely covered in the pails in which it 
was cooked. 

When wanted, cut off slices and heat (covered) 
in the oven, or in a steamer. Half a slice, 
half an inch thick, is enough for one portion. 

Get the fruit and bread-crumbs ready for 
mixing the day before and cook the pudding at 
least a week before it is to be served. One of 
the puddings may be cut in half and frosted 
with a deep soft frosting and passed as fruit 



Catering tor ^wo. isi 

cake. It must be eaten with a fork, however, 
as it is too soft and sticky to be held in the 
fingers. 

MINCE-MBAT FOR ONE I.ARGE PIE. 

One gill of mixed candied citron, lemon, and 
orange peels, one gill of chopped suet, three 
gills of mixed raisins and currants, three gills 
chopped apples, raw, one cupful of chopped 
cooked beef, two tablespoonfuls molasses, three 
tablespoonfuls brown sugar, one heaping tea- 
spoonful of mixed spices (nutmeg, allspice, 
cloves, cinnamon, and black pepper), one quarter 
of a teaspoonful salt, one cupful of cider or 
wine and cider mixed. 

Cover the raisins with cold water and seed 
them. Pick over the currants and wash them, 
and cover both raisins and currants with cold 
water and cook slowly until the water has 
boiled off. Then add the candied fruit and 
suet (chopped fine), sugar, molasses, spices, and 
cider, and boil an hour, stirring frequently. 

Mix apples and meat together, add salt and 
the other ingredients, and cook up thoroughly 
(about ten minutes). Put away in a jar until 
wanted. 

The meat should be boiled or stewed until 
very tender, and well salted before it gets cold. 
Cover with boiling water and cook until the 
water is all gone, being careful not to scorch. 



i82 Catering for (Two. 

Under-round pot-roast will make good mince- 
meat, also stewing beef. Chop when cold. 

A little brandy may be poured over the pie 
just before serving. 

Raise the crust and allow a spoonful for each 
portion. 

PINEAPPLE JARDINi:^RE. 

Cut the top from a ripe pineapple and re- 
serve it for the cover. 

Cut out the inside, rejecting the core, and 
scoop out the juice and the part lying next to 
the rind, with a spoon, being careful not to 
break nor puncture it. Put the rind and the 
cover in a cool place. Put the pineapple into a 
bowl, add half a cupful of sherry (a few spoon- 
fuls of brandy, rum, or champagne may be 
substituted for the sherry), and let it stand on 
ice until wanted at table, then mix with orange 
pulp, seeded and halved Tokay grapes, banana, 
or peaches and plums, stoned cherries, or ber- 
ries according to season, sugar to taste, fill the 
rind, put on the cover, and set the pineapple on 
a dish of cracked ice. Serve in flaring cham- 
pagne glasses. 

One pineapple, two oranges, one banana, and 
half a pound of grapes will fill the rind twice 
and serve twelve people. 



I 



MENUS FOR COMPANY 
IvUNCHEONS. 



Oyster cocktails. 

Breaded French chops. White sauce. 

Mashed potatoes. Celery. 

Tomato mayonnaise. 
Cheese. Crackers. 

Vanilla ice-cream. 
Coffee. Fruit. 



II. 

Grape fruit. 
Beauregarde eggs. 

Fried chicken. 

Escalloped potatoes. 

Stuffed tomatoes. 

Lettuce salad. 

Cream cheese. Crackers. 

Coffee Bavarian cream. 

Fruit. Coffee. 

183 



i84 Catering for ^wo. 

III. 

Bouillon in cups. 

French chops. Green peas. 

Fried potatoes. 

Croustade of oysters. 

Lettuce salad. 

Crackers. Cheese. 

Vanilla ice-cream. Caramel sauce. 

Fruit. Coffee. 



IV. 

Oysters on half-shell. 

Fried smelts. Sauce tartare. 

Blanquette of chicken. 

Mashed potatoes. 

Tomato and celery salad. 

Cheese. Crackers. 

Pineapple jardiniere. 

Coffee. 



SUPPI.EMKNTARY DISHES IN 

COMPANY LUNCHEONS. 

OYSTER COCKTAILS. 

Oyster cocktails are served in small cocktail 
glasses, with a dressing of catsup, etc. 



Catering tor XLxoo. . 185 

Order very small oysters, drain, and see that 
they are very cold and free from bits of shell. 

Put half a dozen in each glass, and pour over 
them several spoonfuls of the dressing made as 
follows : 

One tablespoonful of lemon juice, one table- 
spoonful of tomato catsup, half a teaspoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce, five drops of Tobasco 
sauce, and a little salt. 

This quantity will be sufficient for three peo- 
ple, but the rule may be doubled or trebled 
according to need. 

BREADED CHOPS. 

The chops should be breaded and delicately 
fried, and arranged on a hot platter. 

At the moment of serving, pour over a rich 
white sauce. 

VANILIvA ICE-CREAM. 

Put one pint of milk in the double boiler with 
a piece of vanilla bean about an inch in length. 

Cream together two eggs, half a cup of sugar, 
and two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour until 
very light, and stir gradually into the milk 
when it reaches the boiling point. 

Allow this to cook ten minutes, stirring fre- 
quently. Add a small pinch of salt, and turn 
into a stone dish, beating at intervals while it 
cools to prevent it from forming into lumps. 



i86 Catering for ^wo. 

When cold add one and a half pints of cream 
(or rich country milk) and half a cup of sugar. 

This mixture may be prepared early in the 
day and kept in the ice-box. 

If a larger quantity is desired, a quart of 
cream may be used, the foundation being the 
same. 

Care must be taken in measuring the flour, 
as too much is sure to taste ; the spoon must be 
rounding full instead of heaping — about one 
ounce in all. 

Be sure and use the vanilla bean for flavoring, 
as it is quite impossible to make a good ice- 
cream with vanilla extract. 

All large grocery houses keep vanilla in this 
form, and it would doubtless be easy to have one 
or more sent by post to any place where they 
were not obtainable. 

Before freezing, remove the bit of pod, care- 
fully scraping all the little seeds into the 
custard. 

Prepare the ice by pounding it fine in a coarse, 
strong bag, and use rock salt in the proportion 
of three pints for a gallon freezer. 

Put the can in the centre of the tub with the 
beater in place, fasten the lid securely, and 
pack ice and salt in alternate layers until the tub 
is full. 

Turn the crank a few minutes, and as the ice 
works down, add more, until it is firmly and 
solidly packed. 



Catcrfng for XLvoo. 187 

If plenty of ice is used, twenty minutes will 
serve to freeze the cream. 

The crank need not be turned constantly, and 
the motion at first should be rather slow. 
When the custard begins to harden, turn rap- 
idly, as this is the stage when rapid beating 
makes the cream smooth and light. 

When it is firm enough, take out the paddle, 
beat well with a wooden spoon to fill up the 
space made by the beater, and scrape well from 
the sides. 

Cover the tub with a blanket and set away in 
a cool place, and let two hours elapse before 
serving. 

When ready to do so, dip the can in warm (not 
hot) water, wipe dry, and invert on a cold dish. 

It should come out in firm and perfect shape. 

It is possible to have several varieties of cream 
in the same mould with only one freezing, and 
various combinations may be made to suit the 
individual taste. 

After the cream is frozen a portion may be 
taken out into a cold bowl and a cupful of well- 
sweetened strawberry or raspberry juice stirred 
into it. Pour this back into the can and it will 
soon harden to the proper consistency. 

A quarter of a cupful of very strong coflFee 
may be used in the same way. 

A banana or two may be sliced thin and added 
as another variation, or a little shredded pine- 
apple. 



i88 Catering for ^wo. 

Ripe peaches, if cut up and sweetened, may 
also be used, but they should not be added until 
about half an hour before serving-time, as they 
should only be chilled and not frozen. 

Candied fruits, particularly apricots and 
cherries, are also a pleasant addition, if cut into 
very minute pieces and well mixed through the 
cream. 

GRAPE FRUIT. 

Grape fruit should be well chilled, cut in half, 
the core removed, and the pulp loosened slightly 
around the outside edge ; use a sharp knife and 
be careful not to let any of the white part ad- 
here, as this is very bitter. 

Fill the core cavity with cracked ice and 
sugar and serve a half to each person, on a 
pretty plate. 

These may be on the table when the meal is 
announced. 

This course is eaten with orange-spoons or 
the ordinary teaspoon. 

BEAURBGARDE EGGS. 

Boil six eggs twenty minutes. Make a pint 
of cream sauce. Cut the whites of the eggs in 
thin strips, mix with the sauce, and fill baking 
shells, one for each person. 

Rub the yolks of the eggs through a sieve on 
top of each shell, put in the oven for two or three 
minutes, and serve. 



Catering for Zvoo, 189 

OYSTER CROUSTADB.* 

Get a round loaf of baker's bread which is 
two or three days old, and scoop out all the 
crumb, being careful not to break the crust. 

Break up the crumbs very fine and dry them 
slowly in the oven. 

When dry, fry three cupfuls in two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, stirring all the time (about three 
minutes). 

Put one quart of cream, or rich milk, on the 
fire, and when it reaches the boiling point stir 
in three tablespoonfuls of flour which have been 
mixed with half a cupful of cold milk. Cook 
for a few minutes and season with salt and 
pepper. 

Now put a layer of this sauce in the loaf, then 
a layer of oysters salted and peppered, another 
layer of sauce, and then one of the fried crumbs. 

Repeat this until the croustade is nearly full, 
having a thick layer of crumbs on top. 

Bake slowly half an hour and serve with a 
garnish of parsley. 

Three pints of oysters are required for this 
dish, but half the quantity of ingredients given 
will be sufficient when the croustade is to form 
a single course. 

CARAMEIv CREAM SAUCE. 

Caramel sauce is made by stirring into a cup- 

* Miss Parloa. 



igo Catering for Zvoo, 

ful of cold cream two tablespoon fuls of caramel, 
directions for which have been given elsewhere. 

Serve in a pretty bowl and pass to each guest. 

A pint or more of caramel may be made at a 
time and bottled ; it will keep indefinitely. 

OYSTERS ON THE HALF-SHEI.I.. 

Four or five small oysters on the half-shell 
are sufficient for each portion. 

Arrange on a small plate on a bed of cracked 
ice with a quarter of a lemon in the centre. 

Pass horse radish and crackers with this 
course. 

FRIED SMELTS. 

The smelts should be breaded some time 
before the meal, and fried either in deep fat 
or in a little beef dripping, until a delicate 
brown. 

Serve with a sauce tartare, which is a mayon- 
naise with an addition of chopped pickles and 
capers. 

BIvANQUETTE OF CHICKEN.* 

One quart of cooked chicken, cut in delicate 
pieces ; one large cupful of white stock, three 
tablespoon fuls of butter, a heaping tablespoon- 
ful of flour, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, 
one cupful of cream or milk, the yolks of four 
eggs, salt, pepper. 

* Miss Parloa. 



I 



Catering tor tTwo. 191 

Put the butter into the saucepan, and when 
hot, add the flour. 

Stir until smooth, but do not let it brown. 
Add the stock and cook two minutes, then add 
the seasoning and cream. 

As soon as this boils up add the chicken and 
cook ten minutes. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs with four table- 
spoonfuls of milk ; stir into the blanquette and 
cook about half a minute longer. 

This may be served in a rice border or with 
a garnish of toasted bread. 

TOMATO AND CELERY SALAD.* 

Select firm, good-sized ripe tomatoes. Cut 
a lid from the top and scoop out all the seeds 
and soft pulp with a spoon, being very care- 
ful not to break the tomato. Mix celery cut 
as for salad in small pieces, with mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Fill the tomatoes with this mixture, put 
a teaspoonful of dressing on the top of each 
tomato, and serve on crisp lettuce leaves. 
* Table Talk. 



BREAKFAST, TEA, AND LUNCH- 
EON DISHES. 

EGGS AU GRATIN FOR LUNCHEON. 

Heat one third of a cupful of milk with a 
tablespoonful of butter in a broad, shallow bak- 
ing-dish. Put into this four muffin-rings and 
break an egg into each ring ; sprinkle with 
salt and peppet and add a layer of grated 
cheese. Brown delicately in a quick oven, or 
cook on top of the stove and brown the top 
with a hot stove-lid or red- hot shovel. 

Eggs require only a few minutes' cooking. 

A tiny pinch of mustard and cayenne may be 
added to the milk if liked. 

SMOKED TONGUE. 

Wash, cover with cold water, and soak over- 
night a fine beef tongue. Next morning put 
it into a two-gallon pot, cover with boiling 
water, and cook gently five or six hours. 

When cold pull off the skin and slice in thin 
slices. 

Any scraps that remain may be chopped, 

192 



Catering for XTwo. 193 

mashed to a paste, seasoned with cayenne 
pepper, and used for sandwiches. 

CRUST FOR OYSTER PATTIES. 

Beat one fresh ice-cold egg with four table- 
spoonfuls of ice-water until it appears to be a 
mass of froth. Set it on the ice while cutting 
one cupful of ice-cold butter into two cupfuls 
of flour which have been sifted several times 
with a salt-spoonful of salt. 

When the butter has been cut to the size of 
peas beat up again, quickly, the egg mixture, 
and with a spoon mix it into the flour. Beat 
with the rolling-pin and roll out an eighth of 
an inch thick, cut into circles the right size 
to fit in patty pans, cut covers, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

The covers are baked on tins or dripping- 
pans. 

Do not handle the paste more than is abso- 
lutely necessary ; simply pinch it together with 
the tips of the fingers, roll out once, and put 
in the oven as quickly as possible. 

Make the paste in a cool room, and only roll 
out a portion at a time, keeping the rest in the 
ice-box. 

Keep the trimmings separate, pinch them 
all together at the last, and roll out once. Take 
the last little scraps, form into balls, and roll 
each one out by itself for tarts. 
13 



194 Catering tor ^wo. 

This prevents too much working with the 
dough and also does away with the necessity 
of using too much flour. 

If the butter softens before baking, the crust 
will not be crisp and flaky. 

These patties will keep two weeks in a cool, 
dry place, and may be filled at any time and 
heated in the oven. 

If oyster filling is desired, make a cream 
sauce of a tablespoonful of butter, an even 
teaspoonful of flour, the juice of a dozen small 
oysters, salt and pepper to taste, cook a few 
minutes, then add the oysters and a tablespoon- 
ful of cream, boil up once, and serve in the hot 
shells. 

A little lemon and onion juice may be added. 

For chicken patties, make the sauce of butter, 
flour, and milk, with the yolk of a hard-boiled 
egg mashed fine ; add parsley and onion juice, 
salt and pepper, and minced chicken. The 
tart shells may be filled with jellies, marma- 
lades, or preserved or rich stewed fruits. 

souffle:s. 

(Chicken or Fish.) 

Take half a cupful of the white part of boiled 
chicken, pound to a paste, moisten with two ta- 
blespoonfuls of cream (or milk and butter), add 
the beaten yolk of a raw egg, season with pars- 
ley, mushrooms, or any preferred herb, salt and 



Catering for ^wo. 195 

pepper to taste, add the frothed white of the 
egg, put quickly and lightly into a buttered 
mould, and either set in a hot oven for a few 
minutes, or in a saucepan of boiling water. 
Cook only long enough to set the egg; too 
much cooking will toughen and spoil a souffle, 
which must be served and eaten the moment it 
comes from the fire. Put on a heated dish, and 
pour around it a sauce made from chicken broth, 
thickened with a little browned flour mixed with 
butter, and flavored either with mushrooms, 
onion, lemon juice, or wine. 

Boiled fish may be used in the same way with 
a seasoning of anchovies, wine, and cayenne. 
Canned salmon is a very good basis for a soujQ36, 
and the sauce of thin drawn butter may be im- 
proved by the addition of capers. 

SALMON, WITH HOLLANDAISB SAUCE. 

Canned salmon may be used for this dish, 
which will be found valuable in an emergency. 

Heat a little butter in a frying-pan, and lay 
the salmon in it long enough to cook and heat 
thoroughly ; then put it on a dish, salt and pep- 
per to taste, and serve either with HoUandaise 
sauce, or cream sauce, or drawn butter, with 
parsley or capers. 

BAKED HAMBURG STEAK. 
A "meat-cutter" is a most valuable kitchen 



196 Catering for ^wo. 

utensil, and meat-balls and Hamburg steaks 
may be prepared very quickly with it. Remove 
all of the fat, tendons, and gristle from half a 
pound of round steak, pass this through the cut- 
ter, and then grind through a lump of fine kid- 
ney suet the size of a hen's egg. 

Mix all together, smooth into a square mound, 
pepper, and dredge with flour, and bake in a 
quick oven, rare or well done, as preferred. 

Serve with butter and salt, pouring off the 
grease first. This dish is delicious cold. Onion 
juice may be added if liked, also sliced lemon 
or watercress. 

FRIZZLED BEEF. 

Make a sauce of a dessert-spoonful of butter 
stirred to a cream with one of flour, add a cup- 
ful of boiling milk (water will do), stir, and cook 
several minutes ; then add half a cupful of dried 
beef, torn into inch pieces, and set on the back of 
the range fifteen minutes to swell and get hot, 
but not cook. 

Stir occasionally, and add a little more milk 
if it seems too thick or too salt. Pepper lightly, 
and serve with bread toasted, dipped in salted 
boiling water, and buttered liberally. 

The toast should be on a separate dish. 

Hot hard-boiled eggs make an excellent gar' 
nish. 



Catering for ^wo. 197 

REMNANTS OF COLD OVBN-ROASTS OR 
BROILS. 

Take any oven-roast, steak or chops, and fry 
slowly two hours, or until tender, with a slice 
of fat salt pork ; or stew in just enough water to 
cover. 

Be careful not to burn, and keep closely cov- 
ered. When done, throw away the grease, trim 
off fat, gristle, and bones, cut the meat into 
mouthfuls, sprinkle with salt, pepper, butter, 
and flour, add a little water and beef extract, 
or any gravy at hand. Lay on top of the meat 
hot mashed potatoes, and brown in the oven. 

For a change add a well-beaten egg to the po- 
tatoes (two cupfuls), and a little more milk. 

Bake in a quick oven. 

Boiled meats or pot-roasts will not need to be 
cooked before baking ; they are tender enough. 

REMNANTS OF COLD POULTRY, VEJAL, 
OR LAMB. 

Mince the meat into pieces as large as large- 
sized peas ; pick out all bone, gristle, fat, and 
skin, and mix with the following sauce : Mash 
the yolk of a hard-boiled egg with a table- 
spoonful of butter, a little salt, and a pinch of 
cayenne, and when it becomes a paste add a tea- 
spoonful of flour. Pour on two thirds of a cup- 
ful of boiling milk, cook a few minutes, add the 



igs Catering for ^wo. 

white of the egg, chopped fine, and then stir in 
the meat. Set on the stove long enough to heat, 
but not cook, and serve on thin slices of dipped 
and buttered toast. 

Another way is to make a dressing of equal 
parts of cracker- or bread-crumbs and oysters, 
salt, pepper, and butter to taste ; lay this on 
meat, and brown in oven. 

Another way is to chop the meat fine, bind to- 
gether with a thick drawn butter, form into flat 
cakes, dip into powdered cracker-crumbs (or 
beaten egg and cracker), and fry in a little but- 
ter or hot lard (salt to taste). 

Still another way is to cut the meat in slices 
half an inch thick, trim off the fat, brush with 
milk or water (or dip into beaten egg), bread 
with powdered cracker-crumbs, and fry just long 
enough to brown outside. 

Serve on a bed of watercress, and cover each 
cutlet with a thick sauce made of a little flour, 
cracker-crumbs, butter, boiling water, and 
lemon juice, or minced parsley. 

Pass currant or grape jelly. 

Roast pork may be made into cutlets, in which 
case pass crab-apple jelly or stewed apples. 
Saltine crackers are nice for breading. 

BSPAGNOLB, OR BROWN SAUCE, FOR 
STEWS, ETC. 

Fry one slice of onion (and a slice each of 



Catering for C^wo. 199 

carrot and turnip, adding parsley and celery if 
liked) in a tablespoonful of chopped salt pork 
or butter, until a rich brown. 

Then add an even tablespoonful of flour, cook 
up, and add salt and a half-cupful of boiling 
water in which has been dissolved a quarter of 
a spoonful of beef extract. 

Cook a few minutes and strain. Rich stock 
may be used instead of the extract. 

This sauce may be made with the onion alone 
if the other vegetables are not at hand, and a 
half-teaspoon ful of curry-powder converts it 
into a curry sauce. 

ONION BUTTER. 

For flavoring gravies, stews, and dishes of 
cooked-over meats, an onion butter is a great 
convenience, as it will keep for weeks in a cold 
place. This butter can be used where onion is 
objected to, even the most suspicious not being 
able to detect its presence. 

Slice a large white onion and fry it in two 
tablespoonfuls of butter until the onion has 
shrivelled and turned brown. 

Then strain through a wire strainer into a 
little earthen jar with a close cover. Throw 
away the onion. A quarter-teaspoonful of this 
is enough flavoring for a dish for two or three 
persons. 



200 Catering tor ITwo. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD. 

One pair of lamb sweetbreads will make 
enough salad for two people when served for 
dinner as a separate course, but more will be 
required for lighter meals. Pour boiling water 
on them, let stand for a few minutes, and then 
plunge them in ice-water. 

When thoroughly chilled, pour on hot water 
to cover, bring to a boil, and cook gently about 
eight minutes. 

They should be tender by this time. 

Cool quickly by plunging again in ice-water, 
break into small pieces, removing all gristle 
and fat, and mix with cream salad dressing or 
mayonnaise. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves. 

Veal sweetbreads will take about twenty 
minutes to cook, as they are much larger. 

POTATO SALAD FOR TEA OR 
LUNCHEON. 

Chop fine one cupful of cold baked potato 
and add the following sauce : Mix together one 
teaspoonful of butter, one even teaspoonful of 
flour, a pinch of mustard and one of cayenne, 
one third of a teaspoonful of salt, and then add 
half a cupful of boiling milk and a few drops 
of onion juice. Cook until creamy, then add 
the chopped potato and stir until the mass is 
heated through. 



Catering for Zvoo, 201 

When cold, serve with hard-boiled eggs and 
French dressing. 

This may be served with lettuce leaves or 
with a simple garnish of capers and parsley. 
Chopped meat is sometimes added to this salad, 
in the proportion of one third potatoes to two 
thirds meat. 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN. 

The chicken for this dish must be young, 
tender, and plump. 

Have it split as for broiling. 

Wipe dry with a cloth, spread it liberally 
with butter all over, dust with flour and pepper, 
and lay it, skin side down, on a meat-rack in a 
dripping-pan. Pour in a cupful of boiling 
water, add a few sprigs of parsley, cover closely, 
and bake in a hot oven thirty minutes, or longer 
if necessary. 

Then turn the chicken skin side up, and 
brown uncovered ten or fifteen minutes. 

Cut up the giblets, cooked tender in one cup- 
ful of water, add a spoonful of flour and a lump 
of butter the size of a hen's egg, add the water 
from the giblets, stir all in the dripping-pan, 
and cook, seasoning with salt, pepper, parsley, 
or sweet marjoram. Joint the chicken so 
it may be easily carved, but do not separate 
it. Serve on a platter with the gravy poured 
around. 



202 Catering for Ewo. 

PICKED-UP CODFISH. 

Pour boiling water on half a pound of salt 
codfish picked into bits and bones removed. 
Pour the water off in a few minutes and cover 
with more. This will make the fish fresh 
enough when it 'is drained the second time. 

Blend a tablespoonful of butter and a dessert- 
spoonful of flour together, add half a cup of 
milk, and cook a few minutes. Then add the 
codfish and a little minced parsley, simmer a 
few minutes, and serve on a platter with a hard- 
boiled egg cut in slices distributed over the 
surface. 

Add black pepper and capers if desired. 

MAPLE-SUGAR SYRUP. 

Break up one pound of genuine maple sugar, 
pour over it three cupfuls of boiling water, and 
set on back of the range to melt. Then strain 
through several thicknesses of cheese-cloth 
wrung out of water. Return to the fire and 
boil and skim half an hour. There should be 
one pint of syrup. 

MILK TOAST. 

Take dry pieces of bread, heat them in the 
oven, then toast a fine even brown. Dip into 
boiling salted water, butter, and place in a dish. 

Boil a pint of rich milk and stir in it half a 



Catering for ^wo. 203 

teaspoonful of corn-starch (or flour) mixed with 
a heaping teaspoonful of butter; add salt to 
taste, and after cooking a few minutes pour 
over the toast. 

CHEESB ON TOAST. 

One half-cupful of old English cheese, grated ; 
four tablespoonfuls of milk, one teaspoonful 
of butter, one even teaspoonful of flour, one 
pinch of salt. Blend flour and butter, add the 
milk, boil up, add the cheese, boil up again, 
and pour on toasted bread which has been 
dipped in salted boiling water and slightly 
buttered. 

Set in the oven, covered, until wanted, but it 
should be served soon after it is ready. 

FRESH FISH (FRIED). 
(Any preferred kind. One pound.) 

After cleaning and scaling, wash in cold 
water. Do this quickly and dry gently with a 
napkin. Either dredge with flour or dip in 
rolled cracker-crumbs (half a cup of crumbs 
will be required). Sprinkle on half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a dust of pepper, and fry a fine 
brown in any fat preferred. A tablespoon ful 
of butter, or the grease from two slices of fat 
salt pork, will be sufl5cient. 

Fry rapidly at first, then cook about ten min- 
utes for each side on a cooler part of the stove. 



204 Catering for Zvoo* 

Serve on a platter with lumps of butter dot- 
ting the fish. Roes of shad or mackerel are 
cooked the same way. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

Cut into inch pieces one heaping cupful of 
salt codfish. Remove the bones and skin and 
put into an earthen dish, pour on three cupfuls 
of boiling water, and set on the stove to keep 
warm, but not boil, for two hours. It should 
be freshened enough by this time. Pour off the 
water, pick into tiny bits, or chop, add one 
heaping cupful of hot mashed potato and the 
following drawn butter : Mix one teaspoonful 
of flour with one heaping tablespoonful of but- 
ter, add three tablespoonful s of boiling water 
and a dust of pepper, and cook a few minutes. 

Make into eight little flat cakes, dredge with 
flour, and fry (next day) a delicate brown, in 
salt-pork drippings. Serve on a platter with 
the slices of fried salt pork, garnished with 
parsley. 

A border of hard-boiled eggs (hot) may be 
added. 

SAUSAGES (FRIED AND BAKED). 

Sausages should be well cooked ; in fact pork 
in any form should never be served unless it is 
thoroughly well done. 

Put the sausages in a pan, cover, and fry 



Catering tor Cwo. 205 

slowly, turning from side to side until every 
part has come in contact with the fire. Add a 
little boiling water to the gravy, stir, boil up, 
and pour over the sausages. 

If baked, more time will be required. 

Have the oven quite hot. Some cooks prefer 
to cut each sausage in half, lengthwise, adding 
a little extra seasoning of sage and pepper. 

OATMEAL. 

One scant cupful of *' pin-head '* oatmeal, 
three and a half cupfuls of boiling water, and 
one even teaspoonful of salt. 

Stir until it begins to boil, and in a little 
while stir again ; then cover and cook slowly 
two hours. 

In cool weather this will keep several days, 
and may be warmed up as required. 

The "Universal" pot is the best utensil in 
which to cook oatmeal and hominy ; it is a 
crock set in a bottomless tin frame. 

Pin-head oatmeal is far superior to any of the 
steam-cooked oats. 

INDIAN-MEAL MUSH. 

Pour one pint of boiling water on one cupful 
of yellow Indian meal and a scant teaspoonful 
of salt. 

Stir constantly to prevent lumping. 



2o6 Catering tot c:wo. 

When well mixed, tie closely in a wet cloth 
and boil steadily two or three hours, or longer, 
in a pot of salted boiling water. Set a tea-stand 
in the bottom of the pot to prevent the cloth 
from sticking. 

Turn into a dish, and when cold, slice, dredge 
with flour (or bread-crumbs), and fry in hot salt- 
pork drippings or butter. 

Serve hot with butter and syrup. 

MUFFINS. 
(Baki n g-Powder . ) 

Sift one heaping cupful of flour with one tea- 
spoonful of baking-powder and a scant half- 
teaspoonful of salt. 

Beat one egg, and one cup of milk and water 
(half and half), one teaspoon ful of sugar, a heap- 
ing tablespoonful of butter, melted ; stir well, 
and then add the flour. 

Bake in gem pans or muffin-rings twenty 
minutes in a hot oven. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Half fill a frying-pan with boiling water, put 
in a little salt and half a dozen muffin-rings. 

Break the eggs, one at a time, in a saucer, and 
slip one into each muffin-ring. 

Boil until the whites assume a milky color. 

Serve on buttered toast which has been freed 
from crust. 



Catering tor Zxoo, 207 

A perforated skimmer should be used to take 
up the eggs. 
They will require about one minute to cook. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Allow a teaspoon ful of butter for each egg. 

Heat the butter, add the eggs unbeaten, and 
stir, cooking slowly a few minutes ; they should 
be soft when taken from the fire, and a trifle 
juicy. If hard, the dish will be spoiled. 

Serve immediately. 

HAM OMELETTE. 

Beat three eggs until whites and yolks are 
blended, — no longer ; eggs for omelettes do not 
require much beating. 

Add a quarter of a cup of milk in which one 
heaping tablespoonful of finely powdered bread 
crumbs have soaked thoroughly, and a table- 
spoonful of melted butter. 

Fry in a sheet-iron frying-pan, heated very 
hot, two minutes, drawing the omelette away 
from the sides of the pan so that the uncooked 
part can reach the fire. 

Sprinkle with pepper, and lay over the top 
two tablespoon fuls of finely minced ham (either 
fried or boiled). Cover the pan until the ham is 
hot ; then loosen the omelette with a broad knife- 
blade, and roll it up. 

Serve at once. ' 



2o8 Catering tot Q;wo. 

Sliced raw tomatoes make an appetizing gar- 
nish for this dish. To be right the omelette 
must be soft inside ; too hot a fire, or too long 
cooking, will make it tough and hard. Bacon, 
freed from rind and fried delicately brown, 
chopped fine, may be used instead of ham. No 
butter will be required, as the omelette should 
be fried in the bacon-drippings. 

If preferred, omelettes may be baked in a hot 
oven ; they should be left in just long enough 
to set the eggs. 

BACON AND EGGS. 

Fry the bacon a delicate brown. 

Put the eggs into mufiin -rings in the hot bacon 
fat (first removing the bacon), and baste them 
constantly with the fat until the white of the 
eggs becomes milk-white ; then serve, arranged 
around the bacon. 

If liked, a gravy may be made of flour, bacon 
fat, and milk, and poured over. 

Thirty seconds should cook the eggs. 

LIVER AND BACON. 

Fry a quarter of a pound of bacon, and when 
nicely browned, but not crisp, put it on a plat- 
ter. Into the hot drippings put two slices of 
liver, floured and peppered. Cook about ten 
minutes, basting continually with the bacon fat. 



Catering for ^wo. 209 

Add one teaspoonful of flour to three table- 
spoonfuls of fat, and half a cup of boiling milk, 
to make a gravy ; cook, and pour over the liver. 
A teaspoonful of lemon may be added, and a 
few drops of onion-juice if liked ; in that case 
make the gravy of water. 

Serve with dipped toast or pan-cakes. 

I^amb's kidneys may be substituted for the 
liver ; split them through the centre, remove 
the veins of fat, cover with cold water, boil un- 
til scum rises ; skim ; then drain and dredge 
with flour, and proceed the same as for liver ; 
the water may be used for the gravy. 

Lamb's kidneys may be fried in butter, and 
breaded, instead of floured, if preferred. They 
may also be served without the bacon. 

BROILED FISH. 

Flour the fish (which has been cleaned, 
rinsed, and dried) lightly, and broil on a well- 
greased gridiron over a clear but quiet fire, 
turning frequently enough to prevent burning. 

It should take about half an hour to broil a 
fish one inch thick. Fish must be cooked 
slowly and thoroughly. Serve with butter, 
salt, and pepper to taste. Salt fish must be 
freshened by soaking over night in enough 
water to fully cover. Wipe dry before cooking. 

Lemons, pickles, or parsley may be used as 
a garnish. 



2IO Catering for ^wo. 

HAM ON TOASl. 

Make a drawn-butter sauce ; add some cold 
ham, finely minced, and as soon as it is warmed 
through spread on squares of dipped toast. 

The dish may be garnished with poached eggs 
or sliced hard-boiled eggs. 

After hard-boiled eggs are shelled they may 
be kept hot by putting them in a bowl of hot 
water until ready to serve. 

One tablespoonful of minced ham is a por- 
tion. If fried ham is used, and any milk gravy 
remains, use that in the sauce. Use only enough 
sauce to make the ham stick together in a com- 
pact mass. 

VEAL IvOAF. 

Fry one eighth of a pound of sliced salt pork. 
When delicately browned, but before it becomes 
crisp, put it, without the grease, into an agate, 
or the "Universal" pot, and arrange on top a 
pound of veal cut from the thick part of the leg. 

Sprinkle some parsley on top, add a gill of 
water, cover closely, and simmer three hours. 
Set away to get cold, when chop into pieces the 
size of peas ; remove the parsley. Add a pinch 
each of thyme, cayenne pepper, and black pep- 
per, one teaspoonful of onion-juice, one well- 
beaten egg, a tablespoonful of melted butter, 
and the melted jelly from the meat. 

Salt to taste, and pack smoothly in a baking- 



Catering for Zvoo, 211 

dish ; if there is not enough jelly to make it 
moist and rather juicy, add a little water. 
Cover the top with bread crumbs, and bake 
slowly one hour, covered. 

Slice cold, garnish with celery, and pass 
pickled peaches ; or garnish with skinned ripe 
tomatoes or sliced lemon, and pass celery. 

WHEAT AND INDIAN GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

One overflowing cup of sour (loppered) milk, 
one scant half-level teaspoonful of soda, one well- 
beaten egg, one tablespoonful of butter (melted), 
two thirds of a teaspoonful of salt, three even 
tablespoonfuls of yellow corn meal, one half 
cup of flour measured before sifting. Mix half 
an hour before baking, and then add the soda 
dissolved in one teaspoonful of cold water. 

Beat it in thoroughly and bake on a hot 
griddle. 

In cold weather sour milk may be secured by 
setting fresh milk in a temperature of about 
75° for a few days. Whip a few minutes before 
using to make it light and foamy. 

Bread cakes are made in the same way by 
substituting bread crumbs for the flour, and 
flour for the meal. A pinch of salt will be 
sufficient for these. 

If too thin add an extra spoonful of flour. 

Prepare the bread crumbs in the following 
way : 



212 Catering tor q:wo. 

Cut the crusts from stale bread, put both 
(crusts and inside) in the oven to dry ; then roll 
to powder. The crusts, being brown, should be 
kept by themselves for browning the tops of 
dishes : the inside part is for griddle-cakes and 
puddings. 

These cakes are delicious served for dessert 
at luncheon, with sugar and butter, or butter 
and maple-syrup. 

QUICK BBEF-TBA. 

Pass through the meat grinder, or chop very 
fine, one pound of round or stewing beef (raw) 
freed from fat before grinding. Put into a 
bowl, cover with one cupful of cold water, set 
in a saucepan of cold water and cook (after 
boiling begins) ten minutes, stirring occasion- 
ally. Strain through a coarse sieve, and add 
salt and pepper to taste. If too strong add a 
little more water to the meat and cook up again. 
Beef-tea is apt to be too weak as it is generally 
made ; therefore be careful not to add too much 
water ; a few spoonfuls is enough. 

TO BOIIv NEW POTATOES. 

New potatoes are at their best when baked, 
but they can generally be made light and mealy 
if the following rules are observed. Scrape off 
the skin, cut in three-quarter-inch slices, soak 
in cold water a few minutes and then put them 



Catertna tor ^wo. 213 

into rapidly boiling (salted) water, cover until 
hard boiling begins, then partly uncover. 
They must boil continuously and vigorously. 
When done, drain, spread a muslin over the 
potatoes, replace the cover and shake the pot 
up and down several times as violently as pos- 
sible : the potatoes will be broken and they 
will lie in a drifting, snowy mass. 

Set on the stove a minute only, covered with 
the muslin ; then put into a heated dish, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and keep hot 
covered with muslin until ready to serve. 

BAKED HASH. 

Hash may be baked in the oven until it is a 
fine brown on top. Cooked in this way it 
makes a nice dinner dish if garnished. 

Serve in baking-dish, or slip it onto a platter, 
and border with potatoes sliced, breaded with 
bread crumbs, and fried a rich brown in a spoon- 
ful of salt-pork drippings. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Follow the rule for Raised Steamed Dump- 
ling, substituting two cupfuls of Graham flour 
for the one cupful of white flour and use 
molasses instead of sugar. 

Raise and bake in patty-pans instead of 
steaming. 



214 Catering tor ^wo. 

SARDINE SALAD. 

Lay the sardines upon brown paper to absorb 
the oil. Scrape off the skin and remove the 
bones, and squeeze lemon juice over them. 

Arrange them upon crisp lettuce leaves and 
serve with either French or mayonnaise dress- 
ing. 

Sliced hard-boiled eggs make a pretty gar- 
nish. For sandwiches mix the sardines with 
mayonnaise and spread upon thin slices of 
bread and butter. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Mix together one cup of buckwheat flour, 
half an even teaspoonful of salt, one cupful of 
lukewarm water, and one eighth of a yeast- 
cake dissolved in three extra tablespoon fuls of 
water. Set to rise over night. Just before 
breakfast add one teaspoonful of New Orleans 
molasses and three tablespoonfuls of hot water 
in which has been dissolved one eighth of a 
teaspoonful of soda, and beat together well. 

One or two spoonfuls of the batter may be 
saved from the batch to add to the next 
mixing. 

This gives a pleasing acidity to the cakes. 

Buckwheat may be eaten from October until 
April ; it is too heating during the rest of the 
year. 



CateciuQ toe Zvoo, 215 

Properly made, buckwheat cakes are nutri- 
tious and have great " staying " qualities; they 
are to Americans what oatmeal is to the Scotch. 
Grease griddle delicately with olive-oil. 

MIIyK BREAD (TWO LOAVES). 

Between five and six o'clock in the afternoon 
make a sponge in the following way : 

Pour one and a half cupfuls of boiling water 
on six hops and when just lukewarm, strain, 
squeezing the hops dry. 

Measure this water and add enough more 
water to make an exact cup and a half. Melt 
in this hop-water half a cake of yeast and add 
three even cupfuls of flour dipped from the bag 
and sifted after measuring. Use a three-quart 
basin ; cover closely, and set in a warm place 
until about nine o'clock, when the sponge 
should fill the basin about two thirds full or a 
little over. Measure and sift three more cup- 
fuls of flour, add one heaping teaspoonful of 
salt and a pinch over, and put into a six-quart 
vessel (agate or earthenware). Add a heaping 
teaspoonful of lard and one tablespoonful of 
sugar, and mix. Then pour in the sponge ; 
rinse out the basin with one and a half cupfuls 
of rich, creamy milk, even measure ; add this 
to the flour, and mix. Turn on a lightly floured 
board and knead into a soft springy mass, using 
an even half-cupful, or less, of flour (according 



2i6 Catering for Zwo. 

to its compactness) for this purpose. More flour 
will make the bread hard. 

Put it back into the large basin ; cover closely 
and raise all night in a temperature of about 
68° or 70°. 

By seven in the morning or a little earlier, 
it should nearly or quite fill the basin. Turn 
out and knead just long enough to form into 
loaves. Use not more than a teaspoonful of 
flour for this last kneading, as the dough must 
be soft and elastic. 

Put into pans ; prick all over with a fork and 
raise, covered, an hour or two in about 90° of 
heat, when the dough should have more than 
doubled in size. 

For the first ten minutes the oven should be 
hot enough to lightly brown the top ; at the 
end of this time, moderate the fire a little, or 
place the bread in a cooler part of the oven, 
and continue to bake for thirty-five minutes 
longer. Use new milk when possible, other- 
wise scald and cool. In hot weather use it 
cold ; in cold weather, lukewarm. 

In cold weather set the dough on a feather 
cushion while it is rising, and cover with a 
woollen blanket at night. 

This bread is not at its best the day it is 
baked. It will keep a week properly protected 
from the air in an earthen crock, and should 
be entirely cold before being put away. 



Catering for ^wo. 217 

Use the square-cornered bread pans, filling 
each a little less than half full : when the 
dough rises to the top, it is ready for the oven. 

Flour varies in degree of compactness from 
one time to another, owing to certain con- 
ditions, so that a cupful from one bag will 
measure when sifted, more than a cupful from 
another bag of the same brand when that is 
sifted. Only experience and practice can teach 
one how to regulate and overcome these vari- 
ations. Wheat grown at different seasons 
yields a different quality of flour. Its age after 
grinding has something to do with its quality ; 
also a humid climate. 

When bread and cake deteriorate after the 
middle of the barrel is passed, the cause will 
sometimes be found to be dampness. Drying 
the flour in the oven, sifting and cooling it, will 
in all probability improve it greatly. 

Flour should always be kept in a cool, dry 
place : a bag may stand on a shelf, but a barrel 
should be set on a raised frame of slats, for it 
surely will become damp if allowed to rest upon 
the basement floor. 

Flour of a very compact nature will require 
more wetting in the sponge. 

When mixing, if the sponge is stiff and flaky 
instead of smooth and moist, add a spoonful or 
two of lukewarm water, sprinkling it on and 
stirring it in. 



2i8 Catering for ^wo. 

Too much moisture will make bread tough 
and flabby, and it will make cake heavy ; on 
the other hand, too much flour will make bread 
stiff and cake "floury." 

When of an unusually compact quality, try 
sifting before measuring, for cake. 

Some cake-makers have better success by 
greasing only the bottom of the pans, cutting 
the cake from the sides after it becomes cold. 

Cake should be put into a moderate oven at 
first, the heat being increased towards the last. 

This allows the batter to expand before the 
cake browns. 

Pastry flour is preferred by some people for 
cake and pastry ; this is made from winter 
wheat. 

Flour made from spring wheat is considered 
best for bread. 

Spring- wheat flour generally requires more 
moisture than winter-wheat flour. 

If by adding extra wetting, by sifting or 
heating, flour still yields unsatisfactory results, 
mix with one or two cups of pastry flour, which 
will give bread of lighter texture. 

GLUTEN BREAD. 

Six cups entire-wheat flour, three cups of 
water, half a yeast-cake, one teaspoon ful of salt, 
two tablespoon fuls New Orleans molasses. 

Make a sponge between six and seven p. m. 



Catering for ^wo. 2ig 

of one half the flour, half the water, and the 
yeast. At nine o'clock, or thereabouts, add 
the remainder of the water and flour, the salt 
and molasses, and knead with one half cup 
extra of flour, into a smooth, soft mass. 

Set to rise until morning, then make into 
two loaves, let rise again to double the size, 
and bake in a moderate oven about fifty min- 
utes. 

HOME-MADE YEAST. 

Put into a small preserving jar half a cake 
of yeast, and add one cupful of lukewarm water 
in which potatoes have been boiled (unsalted), 
and two even tablespoonfuls of sugar ; let stand 
covered in a warm place, (about 90°), to ferment 
for three hours. 

Half of this yeast is equal to half a yeast- 
cake, and in a cold place will keep sweet for 
a week. 

When any yeast is taken out replace it (three 
hours before using) with potato-water and one 
spoonful of sugar, and allow it to ferment, as at 
first directed. 

If at the end of a week none has been taken 
out, pour ofi" one half and replace with potato- 
water and sugar. Always stir well before 
taking any out, and in making bread use a half- 
cupful less of water on the hops. 

This yeast may be kept alive indefinitely if 



220 Catering for CTwo. 

the potato-water and sugar are added at the 
right time (three hours before using), and the 
other directions are observed. After the first 
week the yeast should be used directly after 
fermenting or the bread may be sour. 

It should be renewed at least every seventh 
day. It can, however, be made daily if one 
requires yeast so often. If potato-water is not 
at hand pour a half-cupful of boiling water 
upon one tablespoonful of scraped raw potato, 
and use this when lukewarm. 

POTTED MEATS. 

Remove bones, fat, and gristle, from any cold 
pot-roast of veal, lamb, or poultry, and pound 
to a paste in a mortar (or use chopping-bowl 
and potato-masher). Add spice, or any of the 
seasoning sauces to taste, or season simply with 
salt and cayenne pepper. Put into an earthen 
dish and steam in the steamer for two or three 
hours. Meanwhile, cover the bones (broken if 
poultry) with water, and boil down to a glaze. 
Add this to the pounded meat with a teaspoon- 
ful of melted butter for each half-cupful of meat. 
Pack into small jars, holding enough for one 
occasion, and bake in a slow oven half an hour. 
When cold, pour over each jar a quarter of an 
inch of melted butter, and set away in a cold 
place. Boiled ham or tongue will need no salt. 
Scraps may be used for potting. 



Catering tor ^wo. 221 

CLAM FRITTERS. 

If the soft-shell clams are used, they must be 
washed several times in their own liquor, with 
a little water added to free them from sand, 
straining the liquor each time. 

The rule for the batter is given in Fruit 
Fritters, and will require one pint of clams 
chopped in the chopping bowl. Leave out the 
salt and substitute a little of the clam-juice for 
the milk. 

CUCUMBERS SERVED WITH CREAM. 

Peel, slice very thin, and soak for an hour 
in ice-water, one cucumber and one onion. 

Drain, arrange in salad-bowl, add salt and 
pepper to taste, and pour on sweet cream which 
has had a sufficient quantity of cider vinegar 
stirred into it to make it agreeably sour. Add 
a pinch of salt. Serve with the main part of 
the meal. This is a delicious dish, and it is 
claimed that the cream makes the cucumbers 
digestible. 

SPICED FISH (SOMETIMES CALLED 
SOUSED OR POTTED FISH). 

Whitefish, bass, shad, or mackerel may be 
used. Cut the raw fish into pieces suitable in 
size to serve as a portion. Put them in layers 
with salt, peppercorns, two or three whole 



222 Catering tor ^wo. 

cloves, and a little cinnamon stick, into an 
earthen jar, cover with cider vinegar, and bake 
covered in a very slow oven for about eight 
hours. Keep in a dry, cool place. 

Serve for luncheon or tea. The cloves and 
cinnamon can be omitted if desired. 

BIRDS. 

It is a good plan to vary the monotony of 
every-day fare, by having a bird for dinner as 
often as once a week — chicken, duck, squab, 
pigeon, partridge, grouse, etc., can all be had 
at certain times in their season at moderate 
cost, if one takes the trouble to study the mar- 
ket. All of these birds make delicious fricas- 
sees, or they can be roasted in the oven, broiled 
or smothered, or be made into pies. The scraps 
can be made into croquettes for the next day's 
dinner, or potted for sandwiches. The rules 
given for preparing and cooking chicken and 
duck may be applied to game birds. 

A half-cupful of meat minced fine in chop- 
ping-bowl, after discarding all bone, gristle, 
and fat, will make two croquettes. Add salt 
and pepper to taste, and enough gravy (thick- 
ened with flour), to mould into egg-shaped 
rolls. Sprinkle liberally with powdered bread 
crumbs, and brown in a teaspoonful of hot 
butter in an uncovered frying-pan. If covered 
they will fall to pieces. If no gravy is at hand 



Catering tor ^wo. 223 

with which to bind the meat together, make 
a thick drawn-butter and use that instead. 
Serve with a spoonful of bread-sauce made as 
follows : Soak one teaspoonful of rolled bread 
crumbs in one fourth of a cupful of boiling 
water ; add this to the butter left in the pan, 
after removing the croquettes, and boil until 
thick enough to spread evenly. Add any 
seasoning sauce, onion-, lemon-juice, or beef 
extract. Send to table with a sprig of celery 
or watercress, on each croquette. Croquettes 
may be made the day before they are needed 
and kept in the ice-box. Bread them just 
before frying. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD FOR LAYER 
CAKE. 

Two squares of chocolate, one half-cup of 
granulated sugar, one half-cup of rich milk, 
one rounded tablespoonful of flour, one half 
of an egg, one pinch of salt, one half-tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Stir the flour, salt, sugar, 
and chocolate broken into bits, together ; add 
the egg and three spoonfuls of the milk ; stir, 
and set over hot water, stirring until the choco- 
late is melted. Then add slowly the rest of 
the milk ; stand the saucepan on the stove and 
cook gently for a few minutes, being careful 
not to scorch, and stir constantly. It should 
be jelly-like but not stiff; take from the fire, 



224 Catering tor ^wo. 

add vanilla, and when a little cool spread on 
the cakes. Frost the top layer, or dust on 
powdered sugar. 

INDIAN MUFFINS. 
Two heaping cupfuls of flour, one heaping 
cupful of yellow corn-meal, one half-cupful of 
butter (scant), one even cupful of sugar, three 
eggs, two cupfuls of milk, three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one half level teaspoon ful 
of salt. Sift together thoroughly the flour 
meal, salt, and powder. Beat the eggs and 
sugar, and stir in the milk ; add this to the flour, 
etc., and at the last add the butter, melted. 
Bake in the deep muflSn-pans in a moderately 
hot oven ; serve hot. Warm up by standing 
in a steamer on a plate. 

SOUSE (PICKLED PIGS' FEET). 

The butcher will send the feet parboiled. 
Brush and scrape them with scrupulous care, 
and boil in enough boiling water to cover for 
five or six hours, replenishing from the boiling 
teakettle as needed. Pigs' feet must be cooked 
very tender, almost jelly-like, but not so long 
that they will fall to pieces. When done, 
sprinkle all sides with salt (after taking them 
from 'the pot) and put them in an earthen jar. 
Add cayenne pepper, a few peppercorns, 
cloves, cinnamon, a bay leaf, and enough boil- 
ing cider vinegar to cover. In a cold place, 



Catering tor ^wo, 225 

souse will keep a month or longer. Warm up 
in the chafing-dish or frying-pan. Serve with 
lettuce or watercress sandwiches. Souse makes 
a relishable little after-theatre supper. 

SAUSAGE MEAT. 
Three fourths of a pound of lean, and one 
fourth of a pound of fat pork, one level 
teaspoonful of salt, one rounded teaspoonful of 
finely powdered sage ; add one half-teaspoonful 
of black pepper. Chop the pork very fine, or 
grind it, distribute the salt, etc., evenly through 
the meat and pack in an earthen dish. It will 
be ready to use in a day. In cold weather sev- 
eral pounds may be made up at one time ; pour 
melted (not hot) lard over the top to exclude 
the air ; cover closely and keep in a cold, even 
temperature. Corn-fed young pork makes the 
most delicious sausage. Home-dried sage is 
the best and most savory to use. 

TOMATO FRITTERS. 

Skin and slice cold, ripe tomatoes ; pepper and 
salt lightly, and dip each slice into a batter made 
of equal parts of milk, melted butter, and flour. 
Fry in a frying-pan, turn with a cake-turner so 
as not to break, and after browning one side 
cook slowly. 

Time, about twenty minutes. 

If preferred the tomatoes may be breaded and 
then fried in hot butter. 



226 Catering tor ^wo. 

CORN BREAD. 

One generous tablespoonful of butter, one 
fourth cup of sugar, and two eggs creamed 
together ; one and a half cupfuls of milk, two 
cupfuls of flour, one cupful of yellow Indian 
meal, three teaspoonfuls baking-powder, and an 
even half-teaspoonful of salt. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven, in a bread pan. Serve hot the first 
meal. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Four eggs, one cup of granulated sugar, three 
quarters of a cup of sifted flour, two pinches of 
salt, juice and grated rind of half a lemon. 
Whisk the yolks until thick and foaming, 
which will take some ten minutes. Add the 
sugar and grated lemon-rind and beat (always 
beating — never stirring), forten minutes longer . 
add the whisked whites, beating them in 
lightly ; then sift in the flour and fold together 
lightly, then add the lemon -juice, beating as 
delicately as possible, and bake immediately, 
either in the deep sponge-cake pan, or the deep 
muflBn-pans, for about twenty minutes, in a 
rather quick oven. To measure the flour for 
this cake it must be sifted into the measure, the 
salt added, and then sifted eight or nine times 
more. No baking-powder is required, for if put 
together as directed, it will be light enough. 
The whites of eggs for cake should be beaten 



datering tor ^wo, 227 

only long enough to make a coarse light froth, 
and beating should cease the moment that they 
are stiff. For meringues, they can be beaten a 
little longer ; too much beating toughens them. 

SPAGHETTI WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Spaghetti is the small pipe macaroni. It can 
be cooked augratin (that is, baked with cheese), 
or served buttered with grated cheese passed, or 
with a rich tomato-sauce as follows : Into a 
quart of fast-boiling water put a cupful of 
spaghetti broken into pieces ; add half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and boil for several minutes, 
stirring to keep the pieces separated. 

Cover and stand the pot where it will keep 
just below the boiling point, for twenty min- 
utes ; then bring forward and boil steadily for 
about thirty -five minutes. 

It must cook just long enough to mash easily. 
Too long cooking will destroy its nutritive 
qualities. The cover may be left partly off dur- 
ing the last half-hour, so that the water may 
cook away, thus avoiding the necessity for 
draining. Macaroni is sweeter not to be drained. 
To make the sauce, put into another saucepan 
a slice of onion, a clove, and a sprig of parsley 
or celery. Add a heaping tablespoonful of but- 
ter and fry delicately ; add a tablespoonful of 
flour, and stir until a pale brown ; then add two 
cupfuls of cooked and strained tomatoes. Cook 



228 Catering tor tlwo. 

a few minutes ; remove the onion, clove, and 
parsley ; add the spaghetti. Salt, and pepper to 
taste, and serve hot. Macaroni may be warmed 
up by setting the dish covered in a place where 
it will heat but not cook. It may have bouillon 
added and make a delicious soup. It may have 
milk and a little soda added, making a tomato 
bisque. 



FANCY DESSERTS. 



STRAWBERRY WHIP. 

Mash to a pulp one cupful of ripe strawberries, 
and sweeten to taste. Add one teaspoonful of 
gelatine soaked in a tablespoonful of cold water 
and then melted ; also the white of an egg 
whisked to a froth. Set on ice, and serve ice 
cold in champagne glasses. Pass ladyfingers. 

Cherries or raspberries may be served in the 
same way. 

A teaspoonful of whipped cream to each por- 
tion is a great addition. 

COFFEE BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Soak for half an hour one heaping table- 
spoonful of gelatine, in one quarter of a cupful 
of milk. Beat until very creamy (in an agate 
saucepan) the yolk of one egg, and two heaping 
tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, and pour on 
this slowly, stirring continually, two thirds of 
a cupful of milk, boiling hot. Set into another 
saucepan containing boiling water, and cook 
22g 



230 Catering tor tTwo. 

four minutes, stirring constantly from the bot- 
tom and sides. 

Then add the soaked gelatine, stir and cook 
one minute longer, and add a pinch of salt. 

When cold, and before it is set, add half a 
cupful of cold, strong coffee. (Java is best.) 

As soon as the coffee is well stirred in, whip 
in the cream, which is prepared in this way. 

Whip to a stiff froth five tablespoonfuls of 
cream ; add the white of the egg whisked to a 
stiff froth, then add the coffee and pour into 
a shallow glass dish. Set in a cold, but not 
freezing place for several hours : in summer set 
on ice. When thoroughly set, add the Sea-foam 
cream, flavored with two teaspoonfuls of coffee. 

To be a success the quantities must be meas- 
ured very carefully ; it is a delicious dish when 
made just right. 

Five even teaspoonfuls of gelatine will make 
the one heaping tablespoonful required. 

Two heaping dessert-spoonfuls of coffee in 
two thirds of a cupful of boiling water will 
make the coffee. 

To get a level teaspoonful of gelatine, press 
down with a broad knife-blade. 

CARAMEL SEA-FOAM CREAM MOUSSE. 

Sea-foam cream is made of whipped cream 
and whipped gelatine, and it cannot be a suc- 
cess unless both will whip perfectly. The cream 



Catering for ^wo. 231 

must be stiflf, and the gelatine a solid froth be- 
fore they are put together. 

Put one cupful of ice-cold cream and two tea- 
spoonfuls of caramel into a cold bowl set in an- 
other of cracked ice and salt. 

Whip until stiff; then add three tablespoon- 
fuls of confectioner's sugar, a few drops of ex- 
tract of vanilla, and a few grains of salt. 

Soak four level teaspoonfuls of gelatine in 
twenty teaspoonfuls of cold water ten minutes. 

Then melt over the teakettle, and when a 
little cool whip until it is a solid froth, which 
will take about ten minutes. 

Add this to the cream, and whip all together 
thoroughly ; turn into a cold mould, and pack 
in ice and salt for three hours. 

When ready to serve, turn out on a cold dish, 
and serve with any seasonable fruit, such as 
berries, or oranges cut in slices. Ripe peaches 
may be peeled and halved, the stone-cavities 
filled with cracked ice, and covered with sugar ; 
half a fine peach is a portion. The fruit should 
be chilled. Care should be taken to have all 
utensils perfectly dry and clean, as gelatine 
will not whip to a froth if salt, cream, white of 
egg, or any foreign substance touches it before 
frothing. 

Cream sold in half-pint glass jars is reliable 
for whipping. 



«32 Catering for ^wo, 

SKA-FOAM CREAM FOR PUDDINGS. 

Whip to a stifiF froth four tablespoon fuls of 
cream ; add two teaspoon fuls of confectioner's 
sugar and a few grains of salt. 

Soak one level teaspoon ful of gelatine in four 
teaspoon fuls of cold water ten minutes ; then 
melt over the teakettle or in the oven. 

When a little cool, whip with a wire spoon 
six or seven minutes ; it should be well frothed 
at the end of this time. Add immediately to the 
whipped cream, and beat well for a minute or 
two ; flavor with vanilla, wine, coffee, or cara- 
mel, according to the dish it is to be used 
on. 

Pour on the cold pudding or cake, and set on 
ice for an hour or two. 



BOIIyED RICE WITH WHIPPED-EGG 
SAUCE. 

Wash, but do not soak, a scant half-cupful of 
rice (Carolina rice is best). Pour this into two 
cupfuls of milk, stirring until it boils ; then add 
an even half-teaspoonful of salt, cover closely, 
and boil very slowly for half an hour on a cool 
part of the stove. Serve hot, either with 
whipped-egg sauce, or with butter and sugar, 
or cream and sugar, or with tutti-frutti sauce. 



Catering tor Zvoo. 233 

TUTTI-FRUTTI SAUCE FOR PLAIN 
PUDDINGS. 

Seed half a cupful of table raisins, pour over 
them a cupful of cold water, and set on the 
stove to get hot gradually. Simmer half an 
hour ; then add a teaspoouful each of candied 
citron, orange, and lemon peel, chopped fine ; 
also, if desired, a few blanched almonds, also 
chopped, and one third of a cupful of sugar ; 
simmer until the candied fruit is soft enough 
to break when pressed between the fingers. 
Thicken with one level teaspoonful of corn- 
starch blended with one heaping teaspoonful 
of butter. Add brandy or wine. 

If the water boils away, add more from the 
boiling kettle. 

SAUCE FOR STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Beat together one tablespoonful of butter and 
two of sugar. Add the yolk of an egg and 
beat several minutes ; then whisk in the frothed 
white and one third of a cupful of boiling 
water. 

Cook over the teakettle about two minutes, 
and add any part of or the whole of a cup of 
cream. 

Keep hot, but do not cook. 

Heat the cream before adding it to the egg 
mixture. Salt to taste and flavor with a table- 
spoonful of sherry. 



234 Catering tor Cwo. 

FRUIT FRITTERS : PEACHES, APPLES, 
OR BERRIES. 

One half-cupful flour, one third cupful milk, 
one half-teaspoonful baking-powder, one egg, 
a large pinch of salt, one dessert-spoonful of 
melted butter, one pint of sliced fruit or berries 
or stoned cherries. 

Sift flour, baking-powder and salt together ; 
beat the egg ; add the butter and milk, then the 
flour, and lastly the fruit, lightly sugared if 
desired. 

Bake in spoonfuls on a griddle. 

Serve hot, either with butter and powdered 
sugar or hot sugar syrup, (one cup of sugar 
cooked until clear with one third of a cup of 
water). Corn fritters may be made of this rule 
by adding a pint of grated or chopped corn 
to the batter. 

MUSKMELONS WITH ICE-CREAM AND 
FRUIT. 

Put small muskmelons on ice, and just be- 
fore serving, cut in halves, remove the seeds, 
and serve with a spoonful of ice-cream in each 
half. 

Ice-cold whipped cream may be used in place 
of ice-cream. Flavor and sweeten to taste. 

If Sea-foam cream is preferred, set the 
melons on ice for an hour or two before and 
after putting in the cream. 



Catering tor ^wo. 235 

If muskmelons are not sweet and delicious, 
cut them into cubes (of course rejecting the 
rind) and serve slightly salted with sweetened 
cream, or cream and powdered sugar. Melons 
that would be disappointing by themselves, 
are excellent when served with well sugared 
fruit. 

A single variety of fruit may be used, or a 
mixture of berries and cherries, pineapple, 
peaches, plums, grapes and orange juice in the 
following way : Shred the pineapple, peel and 
quarter the peaches, quarter and stone the 
plums and seed the grapes. 

Mix together, add a little orange juice and 
some brandy or Jamaica rum, and when it is ice 
cold arrange in small melon-halves, one for 
each portion. 

Sugar to taste. 



LUNCHKON DESSERT. FRENCH TOAST 
WITH SUGAR, SYRUP, OR HONEY. 

Beat an egg with a gill of milk ; add salt to 
taste ; dip slices of bread, or the steamed raised 
dumpling in this batter, and fry a delicate 
brown in hot butter. 

Melt one cupful of sugar with half a cupful 
of water, cook a few minutes, flavor with lemon 
extract, brandy, or fruit syrup, and serve hot. 



236 Catering for tTwo. 

FRUIT CAKB. 

Sift together one teaspoonful each of nutmeg, 
allspice, cloves, salt, two teaspoonfuls cin- 
namon, three cups flour, and one heaping tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. 

Add to this one pound of currants, one pound 
of raisins, seeded, and half a pound of citron 
sliced fine. 

Beat two eggs into one cup of molasses, cream 
one cup of butter with one cup of brown sugar ; 
add to the molasses ; beat well ; add one cupful 
of strong coffee, and then the flour, etc. Bake 
two and a half hours in a slow oven, careful not 
to let it burn. 

In a close tin box, this cake has been kept 
for three years. 

GOLD AND SILVER CAKE WITH OR 
WITHOUT FRUIT. 

Use the rule for loaf cake as to quantities, 
beating, etc., for each cake excepting the eggs. 
The three eggs will do for the two cakes ; the 
yolks for the gold cake, and the whites for the 
silver cake. 

Add two tablespoon fuls of water to the gold 
cake and if desired two cupfuls of seeded raisins 
■well floured. 

Citron is the proper fruit for silver cake. 

Slice half a pound in thin slices and add 



Catering for Zxoo* 237 

about two tablespoon fuls of flour. (No extra 
flour will be needed if the citron is not used.) 

Flavor with a few drops of almond extract. 

Sometimes fruit is found to be more evenly- 
distributed if it is put in the pan in alternate 
layers with the batter. 

Citron cake will keep a month or longer. 

POUND CAKE. 

Three eighths of a cupful of butter, one cupful 
of flour, put lightly into the cup, one slightly 
rounded teaspoonful of baking-powder, a large 
pinch of salt, one half-cupful of granulated 
sugar, two eggs, one teaspoonful of brandy or 
other flavoring. 

With the hand cream the butter ; add the flour 
(sifted three times with salt and powder) and 
stir until light, (it should look like whipped 
cream at this stage) then add the sugar and 
flavoring and stir for several minutes. Add 
the eggs (unbeaten) and beat (still with the 
hand) for two minutes longer. 

Bake in a moderate oven about forty minutes. 

MOLASSES CAKE. 

Stir together in a mixing-bowl, half a cupful 
of Porto Rico molasses, half a cupful of dark- 
est brown sugar, one third of a cupful of 
softened (not melted) butter, one egg, half a tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, the same of ginger, a 



238 Catering tor XTwo. 

pinch each of cloves, allspice, mace (or nutmeg) 
and salt. 

Sift with one and a half cupfuls of flour, one 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar ; add two cupfuls 
of raisins, which have been stoned and steamed 
(on a plate) for an hour in a steamer. Add one 
fourth of a cupful of warm water (in which has 
been dissolved one half of a level teaspoonful of 
soda), then add the flour and raisins. Stir 
lightly, but thoroughly, and pour into a shallow 
pan lined with greased paper and bake one hour 
in a moderate oven. 

When a broom straw will come out free from 
dough, the cake is done. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Stir together until thoroughly mixed, one 
cup either of butter or beef drippings, one cup- 
ful of molasses, one cupful brown sugar, pressed 
down, two heaping teaspoon fuls ground ginger, 
and half a level teaspoonful of soda, dissolved 
in four heaping tablespoonfuls of cold water. 
Add four cups of flour dipped from the bag, and 
sifted after measuring. Roll out an eighth of an 
inch in thickness and cut with a 2|-inch cutter. 
Lift with a broad knife-blade or cake-turner, 
and arrange on the inverted bottom of buttered 
tins; bake in a moderate hot oven, very careful 
not to burn. If butter or the fat from corned beef 
is used, a pinch of salt will be required, but with 
lard or beef drippings salt to taste. 



Catering tor tlwo. 239 

Porto Rico molasses makes a dark colored 
snap and it is preferred on this account as well 
as for its flavor by some cooks. 

New Orleans molasses, on the other hand, 
has a yellow hue and is more delicate in flavor. 
Mash the soda very fine and smooth oflF with a 
knife-blade ; then divide exactly in the middle, 
lengthwise of the spoon. 

Flour the board and rolling-pin and only roll 
out about one eighth of the quantity at a time. 
Put the trimmings aside and roll out by them- 
selves at the last. Use as little flour as possible 
in rolling out. This quantity will make one 
hundred snaps. Keep in air-tight glass jars in 
a dry place. 

HOT GINGERBREAD AND WAFERS. 

Mix together half a cupful of butter (softened 
but not melted) two thirds of a cupful of New 
Orleans molasses, three tablespoonfuls of cold 
water in which has been dissolved one third of 
a level teaspoonful of soda (mashed before 
measuring) and one teaspoonful of ground 
ginger. 

Add one heaping cupful of flour dipped from 
the bag and sifted after measuring, with a pinch 
of salt. 

Stir till smooth and pour one half of the bat- 
ter into a very shallow pan ; bake in a hot oven 



240 Catering tor ^wo. 

and serve hot, breaking into portions instead of 
cutting. 

Put the remainder of the batter in half tea- 
spoonfuls (two inches apart) upon the bottom 
of inverted tins lightly buttered, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

These wafers are crisp when fresh ; if thej^ 
become soft, set them in a hot oven for a few 
minutes and when cold they will be crisp again. 

Served hot, with cream for sauce, gingerbread 
makes a very nice dessert. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. (HOT OR COLD.) 

One cup of molasses, one half-cup butter, 
one fourth of a cup of warm water, one level 
teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of ginger, 
one egg, two cups of sifted flour. 

Stir the soda into the molasses until it foams, 
beat in the egg, add the butter (softened but 
not melted) then the water, ginger and flour. 

Bake in a shallow tin about thirty minutes 
in a moderate oven. 

Put the flour lightly in the cup when measur- 
ing, as too much flour will spoil the cake. 

A pinch of salt may be added. If the taste 
of soda is objected to, add half a teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar to the flour. 



catering tor Ewo. 241 

FONDANT, OR FOUNDATION FOR CREAM 
CANDIES. 

Stir while dissolving on the edge of the stove, 
two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one cupful of 
water, a few grains of salt, and a big pinch of 
cream of tartar ; then boil gently without further 
stirring. 

Wipe away any crystals that form above the 
edge of the syrup while boiling, but do not 
touch the syrup or jar it, or it will grain. Use 
for the purpose a sharp stick with a piece of 
wet muslin upon it. 

Boil, not too vigorously, fifteen minutes, then 
dip a smooth stick into ice-water, then into the 
syrup, and back again into the ice-water. If 
the syrup thickly adhering to the stick will be- 
come like soft putty when worked between the 
thumb and finger, it is ready to turn out. Keep 
on testing every minute until this stage is 
reached, then turn it out into a deep and rather 
flaring earthen bowl, lightly oiled or buttered. 

IvCt it coola few minutes, and when the finger- 
tip pressed gently, will dent it, stir (before a 
crust forms) round and round with a stout 
wooden spoon, until it becomes a snow-white 
creamy mass. 

Put in the flavoring while stirring : a half- 

teaspoonful each of rose and vanilla is a good 

combination which blends well with nuts, 

chocolate, or candied fruit. 
16 



242 Catering for ^wo. 

Kneading improves the fondant. 

For sugar-plums, form the fondant around 
whole nut meats, dip into granulated sugar and 
shake violently in a bowl with a few additional 
spoonfuls of sugar : almonds are the nuts gen- 
erally used for this candy. 

An inch piece of the fondant with an English 
walnut meat on each side makes another varia- 
tion. 

For chocolate cream bar, melt one half-square 
of chocolate over the teakettle, and stir in a 
lump of fondant the size of an egg. A knife 
and fork facilitates this process. 

Put a layer of plain fondant on either side, an 
inch in thickness and cover all over with a coat 
of melted chocolate (one square will be enough) 
flavored with a few drops of vanilla. 

In a day, this may be cut into squares. 

For nut bar, mix nuts with the fondant, press 
into a square, and in a day cut into small cubes. 
Candied fruit, candied orange peel, crystallized 
ginger, etc., may also be covered with fondant 
for sugar-plums. 

If properly made, fondant will keep for 
months in air-tight glass jars and be improved 
in quality. 

If the syrup boils a little too long, the fond- 
ant will not mass, but on being stirred will 
crumble when it reaches the snow-white stage. 
When this occurs a few drops of water or wine 



Catering tor Cwo. 243 

may be sprinkled over the surface and stirred 
in (a drop too much will spoil it). 

Set the bowl in a basin of boiling water, boil 
and stir constantly until smooth. If the stirring 
is not kept up the fondant will turn into syrup. 
To be right it should be pliable enough to be 
moulded into any shape when it is cool enough 
to handle. 

If the fondant grains from too much boiling 
or jarring of the syrup, a few spoonfuls of water 
may be added and a new trial made, melting, 
boiling and testing as before, or it may be 
melted into syrup for the table. 

If the fondant after being creamed seems soft 
and gummy and does not retain its shape it 
has not been boiled quite long enough. 

This condition is worse than the other. 

To remedy it knead in confectioner's sugar, 
until it will take no more : the candies will be 
eatable, but that is all. 

Vanilla and sherry make a fine flavor. 

The novice in candy-making, would do well 
to try only a quarter of the quantities given, at 
first. 

Begin testing after the sugar has been cook- 
ing ten minutes, for small quantities. 

A dry atmosphere is desirable while boiling 
syrup for candies, and it is well to choose a 
fine bright day for the work. 

Sarah E. Craig, in 20th Century Cookery^ says : 



244 Catering for ^wo. 

"I would suggest the sugar thermometer to 
those having trouble in testing their syrups for 
candy-making. 

** One can be bought for |i.75, and will save 
the amateur a world of trouble. In making fond- 
ant the thermometer will register about 2388, 
and the syrup is then ready to turn out." 

A very satisfactory cream can be easily made 
with confectioner's sugar, but it is not nearly 
so good as that just described. 

Beat the white of an egg with a tablespoonful 
of water or cream, and stir in confectioner's 
sugar until enough has been added to form a 
pliable dough. Flavor while mixing. 

Fruit juice or fruit syrups may be used in- 
stead of water or cream. 

If preferred, the egg may be omitted. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 

HOW TO MAKE COFFEE. 

There are various ways of making coflfee, and 
where one fails, others may be tried with suc- 
cess. 

Some kinds of coffee are best when made by 
the French method, which consists in pouring 
boiling water on the finely ground coffee placed 
upon a set of strainers in a cylinder, and allow- 
ing it to percolate slowly through. 

Another way is to mix the coffee with egg 
and cold water, and bring it to a boil ; then 
settle, strain, and serve. 

Yet another is to mix coffee and egg, add a 
little cold water, and then boiling water ; bring 
to a boil ; stand to settle ; strain, and serve. 

In all cases the pot should be tight as possi- 
ble, to prevent the escape of the aroma, and the 
coffee should be served soon after being made. 

An earthen pipkin makes a good coffee-pot : 
place a doubled cheese-cloth under the lid, and 
tuck it in closely. The cheese-cloth is to be 
used as a strainer, and it must be thoroughly 
washed and boiled every time it is used, and 

245 



246 Catering for (Two. 

renewed often, as otherwise the flavor of the 
coffee would be spoiled. 

Buy only the best grades of coffee, and when 
possible have it ground at home. A third each 
of Java, Mocha, and Maracaibo makes a favor- 
ite blend. Another is two thirds Java and one 
third Mocha. 

To make one quart of coffee take one heap- 
ing cupful of coffee, one third of a raw egg, half 
a cupful of cold water, and one quart of boiling. 

To make one cupful of coffee take two heap- 
ing dessert-spoonfuls of coffee, two spoonfuls of 
cold water, one teaspoonful of raw egg, and one 
cupful of boiling water. 

Too much egg will weaken the coffee. 

MINCE-MEAT. 

Five pounds of cooked beef. After the meat 
is chopped, measure it in a bowl, and to each 
bowl of meat add two bowls of chopped apples 
and one of chopped raisins ; mix these together, 
and set aside. 

Chop a pound of suet fine, add one heaping 
tablespoouful of salt, the same each of cinnamon 
and allspice, two tablepoonfuls of clove, two 
nutmegs, and not quite a tablespoonful of 
mace. Add also one pound of sugar, a scant 
pint of molasses, and one quart of cider ; put 
these ingredients in a kettle, and let them come 
to a boil ; this melts the sugar and suet and 
mixes the spices. 



Catering tor ^wo. 247 

Take from the fire, and when cool add to the 
meat, apples and raisins, and stir in, finally, 
half a pint of whiskey. The sugar, salt, and 
spices may be varied to suit the individual 
taste. 

CANDIED ORANGE PEEL. 

Soak the orange peel in a brine strong enough 
to float a potato, for several days ; then steep in 
cold water until it is so tender that it can be 
broken easily under slight pressure. The water 
should be changed six or eight times in order 
to make the flavor of the peel more delicate. 
Drain for several hours ; then cut it into inch 
squares ; measure, and put it on the back part 
of the stove, with an equal amount of granu- 
lated sugar. When thoroughly dissolved, spread 
upon platters, and keep in the open oven or in 
the sunshine until candied, which will be in a 
few days. Pack away in covered glass jars. 

Lemon peel may be prepared in the same 
•way. 

CANNED PEACHES. 

Allow one pint of water and one cupful of 
sugar for every quart of peaches. Boil sugar 
and water for ten minutes ; then add the peaches 
(peeled, but not stoned), a few at a time, and 
boil until a broom-straw will pierce them easily ; 
be sure to have them cooked enough. 

Put the peaches in jars (two thirds full), boil, 



248 Catering for ^wo. 

and skim the syrup, and pour it over the peaches 
until the jars overflow. 

Seal at once. 

Use new rubbers each season, as old ones are 
apt to be unelastic. If there is not enough 
syrup for the last jar, make more of sugar and 
water ; canned fruit is always improved bv 
plenty of syrup. Keep canned goods in a cool, 
dry place, the darker the better. 

PRESERVED PEACHES. 

Select sound, ripe peaches of a fine, rich 
variety ; peel, halve, and stone them. 

Weigh, and make a syrup of an equal amount 
of granulated sugar. 

To every three pounds of sugar add one cup- 
ful of water ; melt, and boil ten minutes ; then 
drop in the peaches and cook them until a 
broom-straw will pierce them easily. 

Skim carefully. 

Put the fruit in jars, boil and skim the syrup 
a few minutes longer, fill the jars to overflowing 
with the syrup, and seal. 

A few stones may be boiled with the syrup, 
and two or three put in each jar to flavor. 

This is the old-fashioned peach preserve of our 
grandmothers. 

When serving, a teaspoonful of fine brandy 
may be added to the juice for each portion. 

Peaches may be easily peeled by pouring 



Catering tor ^wo. 249 

boiling water on them and allowing them to 
stand about a minute ; a longer time would 
soften them too much. Scald only a half a 
dozen at a time. 

Keep peeled fruit covered with a wet cloth to 
prevent discoloration. 

When peeling with a knife, a good plan is to 
halve and stone them before peeling. 

SPICBD PEACHES. 

Seven pounds of peaches, three and a half 
pounds of sugar, one scant pint of cider vine- 
gar, half an ounce of stick cinnamon, half an 
ounce of whole cloves, half a teaspoonful of 
whole allspice, and one quarter of a nutmeg 
broken into bits. 

Make a syrup by boiling the sugar and vine- 
gar together about ten minutes. Put in enough 
peeled peaches to cover the bottom of the kettle 
and cook gently and steadily until a broom- 
straw will pierce them easily. Skim the peaches 
out carefully ; put them on a platter and cook 
the remainder of the fruit in the same way. 

When all are done, drain off the juice, put it 
in the kettle, boil up, and skim off the froth. 

Put the peaches in a stone jar, pour the hot 
syrup over them, tie the spices in a bag and lay 
it on top ; cover closely, and at the end of a week 
pour off the juice, boil up, and pour it hot over 
the peaches. 



250 Catering tor XLvoo, 

If the vinegar is too sharp, a few spoonfuls 
of water maybe added. If preferred a few of 
the cloves may be stuck in the peaches before 
boiling. 

Some cooks prefer to leave the skins on 
peaches put up this way, considering them 
richer. Use late fruit and select only the best 
and largest. 

The bag for spices should be of very coarse 
muslin and must be large enough to cover the 
top. 

Keep in a cool, dry place where the tempera- 
ture is even. 

QUINCES. 

Wash, peel, and cut into slices an inch thick ; 
remove the cores and cook until very tender in 
water. Skim out the fruit and set aside. 

Add sugar to the water ; boil and skim ; re- 
turn the quinces to this syrup ; boil up and 
seal at once in glass jars. 

Pour water on the seeds and skins, boil and 
strain and add sugar ; this makes a very good 
jelly. 

Follow the rule for crab-apple jelly. 

For quince preserves use a pound of sugar to 
one of fruit. 

PRESERVED PINEAPPLE. 
Make a syrup of one pint of sugar and half a 



Catering tor ^wo. 251 

cupful of water ; boil until clear, and add a pint 
of pineapple which has been peeled, sliced, and 
cored. 

Cook fifteen minutes. 

Put in glass jars, and when cold tie the jars 
up in thick brown paper to exclude the light. 

CANNED CHERRIES. 

One quart of fine large cherries, three heaping 
tablespoonfuls granulated sugar and four table- 
spoonfuls of water. 

Boil water and sugar until clear ; add the 
cherries which have been stemmed, washed, 
and drained, and cook them, covered, ten min- 
utes. Seal in pint jars. 

More sugar will make a richer preserve. 

Prepared in this way cherries are very nice 
for steamed puddings, but they may also be 
used as a sauce by adding more sugar at the 
table. 

In canning always fill the jars brimming full ; 
let them stand a minute to settle; then add 
more juice and seal, hot. 

PIvUMS. (DAMSON OR LARGE BLUE 
VARIETY). STEWED OR FOR CANNING. 

Wipe the plums with a soft cloth : use the 
firmest for preserving, the others for stewing. 
Measure, and allow nearly an equal amount 



252 Catering tor ^wo. 

of granulated sugat and the same of water. 
Cook sugar and water ten minutes after it boils 
clear. 

Add the fruit and cook several minutes or 
until a broom straw will pierce easily. A heap- 
ing pint of plums will take a scant pint of 
sugar, and an even pint of water. Seal hot in 
air-tight glass jars. 

Plum juice diluted to taste with water and 
cracked ice makes a delicious and refreshing 
drink. 

GRAPE PRESERVES. 

Use Catawba grapes and pulp them. 

Measure the skins and allow as much sugar 
as there are skins, and the same amount of 
water. 

Put half of the sugar in the oven to get hot, 
and put the other half in a kettle with the 
water ; boil until clear and add the skins, a few 
at a time, so that the syrup may not stop 
boiling. 

Keep the pot covered, and do not stir, as 
stirring will cause the skins to lose their plump- 
ness and become tough. 

Shaking the pot occasionally will prevent 
burning. It will take a quart of skins about 
half an hour to cook. 

Cook the pulps about ten minutes to loosen 
the seeds, and when cool enough, strain closely 
through a piece of cheese-cloth. Put back 



Catering tor Zvco. 253 

over the fire, boil and skim ; then add to the 
skins, stir, add the hot sugar, boil a minute or 
two, and put away in glasses the same as jelly. 
In cooking syrup or anything that needs 
skimming let the vessel boil only on one side ; 
the froth will then be thrown to the opposite 
side and may be easily removed. 

PRESERVED CITRON. 

Cut citron in halves ; turn the cut side down 
and slice with a broad, strong knife in slices a 
little more than an inch wide. 

Peel, seed, and cut into inch-size pieces. 

Soak over night in cold water (a quart of 
water to every quart of fruit, with a lump of 
alum the size of a large pea dissolved in each 
quart of water). Next morning rinse the citron 
in salted water (a teaspoonful of salt to a quart 
of water), and cook forty minutes in fresh warm 
water, (a quart of water to one of citron). 

Meanwhile, make a syrup of six pounds of 
sugar and a pint of water in which two ounces 
of scraped and sliced ginger root has been boiled. 

The ginger may be soaked first for half an 
hour or so in cold water to make it scrape 
more easily. Slice, and pour on it three cups 
of cold water, bring slowly to a boil and use 
two cups (one pint) for the syrup, throwing 
away the remainder. 

Boil the syrup about ten minutes, tie half an 



254 Catering tor tlwo. 

ounce of cinnamon stick, one teaspoon ful of 
whole cloves, and half a teaspoonful of whole 
allspice in a piece of net or cheese-cloth and 
cook this in the syrup. Add the citron after 
draining and cook slowly half an hour. 

Skim out and put in a stone jar. 

Add to the syrup two thinly sliced lemons 
which have been cooked fifteen minutes in half 
a cupful of cold water (use water and all) and 
boil and skim for half an hour ; then pour 
over the citron. 

The spices and ginger root may be added also 
if preferred. 

Keep in a cold place. When cold add one fine 
orange thinly sliced. 

The following is the exact proportion of 
ingredients : 

Six pounds of cut-up citron, six pounds of 
granulated sugar, one pint of water, alum size 
of a pea for each quart of citron, two ounces 
ginger root, two lemons, half a cupful of water, 
one half an ounce of stick cinnamon, one tea- 
spoonful whole cloves, one half-teaspoonful all- 
spice, one orange. 

CRAB-APPIvE JELI.Y. 

Cover the apples with cold water and cook 
slowly until they are as soft as mush, then drain 
through a cloth laid over a sieve ; do not press 
the fruit in the least. 



Catering for q:wo. 255 

Put the juice on the fire and cook a few 
minutes ; then add an equal amount of sugar ; 
boil and skim and put away in tumblers. 

As apples yield a different quality of juice at 
different seasons, it is better to make up only a 
quart at first, and this will serve as a guide for 
the rest of the jelly, how long to boil, and how 
much water and sugar will be needed. 

GRAPE JELLY. 

Use Concord grapes ; stem them, and keep 
them at the boiling-point in an agate saucepan 
(uncovered) on the back of the stove for four 
hours (stirring occasionally), to evaporate and 
get soft. 

Mash with a wooden potato-masher, and stir 
with a wooden spoon. 

Boil gently for another hour, or until the 
seeds drop out, careful not to let them burn. 
Stir often. 

When cool enough, strain, a cupful at a time, 
through a piece of new canton-flannel wrung 
out of cold water. Measure the juice with ex- 
actness, and put an equal amount of granulated 
sugar on pans or platters in the oven, to get 
very hot, but not to melt, stirring occasionally. 

While the sugar is heating, cook the juice 
in a clean agate saucepan, uncovered, half an 
hour. 

Do not stir, but skim at the end of each fif- 



256 Catering for ^wo, 

teen minutes. Now add the hot sugar, and stir 
with a wooden spoon until it is all dissolved ; 
then boil gently five minutes without stirring ; 
skim ; boil again for five minutes; skim again, 
and it is ready to put in glasses. 

Put a silver teaspoon in each glass, and fill 
to the top ; remove the spoon at once, as metal 
of any kind will discolor the jelly. 

Put the jelly away, uncovered, for a day in a 
dry place, or in the sunshine ; then cover with 
rounds of writing-paper dipped in brandy or al- 
cohol, and tie over this rounds of paper. 

Allow no water to touch the grapes ; do not 
wash them, and see that all utensils are per- 
fectly dry and clean. 

If the foregoing directions are followed ex- 
actly, the jelly will be clear and rich in color, 
and of a perfect consistency. Keep in a dry, 
cool closet. 

CURRANT JEI/LY. 

Put the currants, unstemmed and unwashed, 
in an agate kettle. Heat, and mash with a 
wooden pestle, or spoon, and cook gently for 
fifteen minutes after boiling begins. 

When cool enough not to bum the hand, 
strain, a cupful at a time, through a piece of stout 
cloth wrung very dry from hot water ; press out 
every bit of juice. 

Measure, and put an equal amount of granu- 



Catering tor Zvoo» 257 

lated sugar in the oven to get very hot. Boil 
the juice for fifteen minutes slowly ; skim ; 
then stir in the hot sugar ; boil ten or twelve 
minutes, and put into tumblers. One quart of 
currants will make two tumblers of jelly. Let 
no water touch the fruit during the process. 

SYRUP FROM BERRIES. 

Put very ripe perfect berries in an earthen- 
ware pot ; mash, and let them stand over night 
in a warm room. Next daj- heat, but do not 
boil ; strain through a cloth ; measure ; add an 
equal amount of granulated sugar ; set on the 
stove, and stir until the sugar is dissolved, but 
do not cook ; then seal hot in small, air-tight 
glass jars. 

This syrup maybe used for flavoring jellies 
or punches, or for making sherbets. 

UNFERMENTED GRAPE-JUICE. 

Ten cupfuls Concord grapes, six cupfuls 
water, two cupfuls sugar. Mash the grapes, 
and cook in three cupfuls of the water ; strain ; 
add to the skins and seeds three more cupfuls 
of water ; cook again ; strain ; add to the 
strained juice the two cupfuls of sugar, and 
boil five minutes. 

Skim, and bottle, hot, in air-tight jars. 

In serving, add sugar and a little lemon-juice 
(or thin slices of lemon) ; fill glasses half full 



258 Catering for Zwo, 

of cracked ice ; pour in the grape juice, and a 
simple but delicious drink is the result. 

LEMONADE. 

Ten tablespoon fuls lemon-juice ; ten heaping 
tablespoonfuls granulated sugar ; one orange, 
sliced very thin ; two even quarts of ice-water. 

IvEMON EXTRACT. 

Cut the yellow rind from six fine large lemons, 
as thinly as possible, and cover with three fourths 
of a pint of best alcohol. Put in a wide-mouthed 
bottle and cork tightly. It will be ready for 
use in a few days. 

EXTRACT OF VANILLA. 

Break one vanilla-bean into inch pieces ; 
cover with cold water and let it stand in a 
tightly corked bottle four days. 

Then add half a pint of the best alcohol : it 
will be ready for use in a week. 

Turn this off into another bottle, and add to 
the vanilla-bean a little more than half a cupful 
of alcohol : this will be ready by the time the 
first extract is all used. 

The bottles should have glass stoppers. 

Vanilla-beans are long, thin pods which sell 
for twenty cents each and can only be found at 
the large stores dealing in fine groceries. It is 



Catering tor ^wo. 259 

a great advantage to make one's extract, as 
most of that which is sold is not made from 
vanilla-beans at all. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

Four quarts of green tomatoes sliced in nearly 
inch-thick slices. 

One quart of white onions, and six green 
peppers sliced thinly. 

Put them with salt in layers in an earthen 
vessel to stand over night. Use a rounded half- 
cupful of fine table salt. 

In the morning drain for an hour ; then pour 
over them three scant pints of genuine cider 
vinegar ; add half a cupful of granulated sugar, 
a tablespoonful of whole cloves, half an ounce 
of stick cinnamon and a few allspice tied in a 
bag. 

Cook gently for half an hour after boiling 
begins, keeping the cover partly off. Just be- 
fore removing from the fire add an ounce of 
mustard seed ; stir lightly, so as not to break 
the pieces, with a wooden spoon, and put away 
in an earthen jar for a month in a cool place. 
At the end of this time put it again on the stove 
and boil up with a half-cupful of sugar (more or 
less according to taste), and seal hot in jars. 

Remove the bag of spices before sealing, and 
add a red pepper pod if not peppery enough. 
Before filling a jar, place in it a spoon long 



26o Catering for XLwo, 

enough to extend above the edge of it. This 
•will prevent breaking if the jar is a perfect 
one. 

PICKIvBD STRING-BEANS AND 
CUCUMBERS. 

Put one quart of young fresh string-beans 
into a brine which will float an egg. 

At the end of three days take them out and 
put into the brine two dozen very small white 
onions. Wash the beans in ice-water and pour 
over them one pint of boiling cider vinegar in 
which is dissolved a lump of alum the size of a 
large pea. 

In three days drain ; steam the beans for 
twelve minutes in a steamer ; then put them 
into a stone jar ; add the onions, one small red 
pepper pod, one ounce of mixed whole spices 
tied in a bag, and pour over one pint of cider 
vinegar, boiling hot. Place a weight on the 
pickles to keep them submerged. 

Throw away the brine and alum vinegar. 

Keep pickles always in a cool place. 

Small cucumbers called gherkins are pickled 
in the same way except that steaming is not 
necessary. Omit the onions and add to the 
last vinegar a tablespoonful of sugar. 

The bag of spices may be removed when the 
pickles are flavored sufficiently. 



Catering tor ^wo» 261 

TARRAGON VINBGAR FOR SALADS. 

Put a bunch of tarragon leaves in one quart 
of fine cider vinegar in an earthen vessel set 
within another containing cold water. Set on 
the fire and let the vinegar boil up. 

When cool, bottle and cork. 

Only a small quantity of the tarragon should 
be used, as its flavor is very pronounced. 

BAKED RHUBARB. 

Put three cupfuls of skinned and cut-up rhu- 
barb (or pie-plant) into an earthen dish ; add 
one cupful of sugar ; dredge with a teaspoonful 
of flour and bake (covered) about half an hour. 

To be eaten with meats, or put into tart shells 
for dessert. Have covers for the tart shells. 



HELPFUL SUGGESTIONS. 

Salt toughens meat if added before it is done. 

Wash lettuce carefully so as not to bruise, cut- 
ting each leaf from the stalk, and put it, drip- 
ping, into a closely covered pot. Set in a cool 
place. Ivcttuce thus prepared will keep for 
several days and be crisp and fresh. 

Celery should be treated in the same way. 

Each day look it over, rinse in fresh cold 
water and return to the pot. 

Do not soak in water to freshen, but when 
slightly wilted, wash and put in an earthen pot 
instead. 

Turnips, cabbage, and parsley are always im- 
proved by this treatment, but it is not necessary 
to pull the cabbage apart. 

Greens, (spinach and sprouts) should be 
soaked for several hours in cold water. 

Set asparagus bunches in a few inches of cold 
water to keep them fresh ; the water should not 
come more than half way up the stalks. When 
ready to cook, wash in several waters to get out 
the sand. 

262 



Catering tor ^wo. 263 

Confectioner's sugar may be found at almost 
all shops where groceries are found, but when 
not procurable, powdered sugar will answer al- 
most as well if it is rolled very fine on the 
moulding-board. 

Make Coffee Bavarian Cream frequently, at 
least twice in a month. It is something one 
rarely tires of. When used as a dinner dessert, 
oranges served after it will be found very ac- 
ceptable. 

Candied fruits for pies or puddings may be 
softened by steaming in a steamer ; set the fruit 
on a dish. 

When wishing to keep a steak or chops over 
night in hot weather, if there is danger of spoil- 
ing, broil or fry over a hot fire just enough to 
sear the outside, and to heat through but not to 
cook. Set on ice. 

If not cooked too much they will be as nice 
when broiled next morning as if they had not 
had the preliminary broil. 

When cheese becomes too hard for the table, 
grate it and put away in bottles ; it is useful for 
macaroni, soups, or sandwiches. 

Empty all canned things, as soon as they are 
opened, into an earthen bowl, and if not used 
for a day or two, scald them. In this way 
tomatoes may be kept a week in a cool place. 



264 Catering tor ^wo. 

Before putting crackers on the table set them 
in a hot oven a few minutes to crisp them. 

Before toasting bread, dry it a little in the 
oven : it should be heated through before toast- 
ing. Serve dipped and buttered toast (on a 
separate dish) with fried salt pork or ham, at 
breakfast. 

A little curry powder added to soups or stews 
gives a new dish. 

When a quick fire is needed and the range 
burns slowly, rake out as thoroughly as possi- 
ble ; add a bundle of kindling-wood, and open 
the draughts. One bundle of wood is usually 
enough to bake a pan of biscuits or muffins. If 
the fire is to be used for broiling, burn the wood 
to a red bed of coals. 

When broiling, if the fire is too hot, sprinkle 
over it a thin layer of fine ashes, or a handful 
of salt, or lay a folded sheet of newspaper on 
the coals ; put on the lid, and when the paper 
has burned out, its ashes will smother the fire 
enough. 

On the other hand, if the fire should not be 
hot enough, add a few scraps of fat meat. 

Grape preserves may be put between layer- 
cake just before serving. For a small family, 
cut one layer crosswise (not to split) and double 
one half over the other. Served with cream, 
this makes a delicious dessert. 



Catering for tlwo. 265 

To brown flour for soups and gravies, put a 
few spoonfuls evenly on the bottom of a baking- 
pan and stir until it has become a fine amber- 
brown over a moderate fire. Bottle and keep 
for use. 

Some different varieties of cheese are — Stilton, 
Camembert, Roquefort, New Roquefort, Brie, 
Gorgonzola, Club-House, Edam, Sweet Clover, 
Meadow Brook, Philadelphia Cream, Neufcha- 
tel, Parmesan, Old English, Limburger, Che- 
shire, Gruyere, and Pineapple. 

An agreeable blend of tea is made of half a 
pound of the finest Oolong mixed with an 
ounce, or even less, of uncolored Japan tea. It 
(Japan) is of a pale greenish hue, and is not to 
be mistaken for the green tea of China. 

Until one has become acquainted with the 
different grades and qualities of grocer's wares, 
it is much safer to buy only from houses whose 
judgment in such things can be depended on. 

Dry egg-shells, break into bits, and put them 
away in a preserving jar to use in clearing coffee ; 
two tablespoon fuls will clear one pint of coffee. 

When dried chipped beef is in danger of be- 
coming musty, take it from the box, spread on 
a platter and dry it in a hot oven ; it may then 
be put away and will keep for months. When 
immersed in cream sauce, beef treated in this 



266 Catering tor G^wo. 

way will swell to its natural size and be as nice 
as at first. 

Dried or smoked beef is considered by some 
physicians to be unsafe for food until cooked. 

The chopping-bowl must be scraped and 
scoured after each using, and well scalded, 
otherwise it will become unhygienic. Turn 
upside-down when not in use. 

Butter should be kept covered in a stone jar 
in a cool place ; some housekeepers put it into 
a brine, and this certainly keeps it sweet, and 
sometimes improves the quality. The brine 
should be strong enough to bear up a potato. 

Put a potato in the jar ; add water, and then 
stir in salt until the potato floats. 

Get only the best and sweetest butter, and 
never use an inferior grade for cooking. 
Rancid butter is unhealthful. 

As soon as possible after it comes from the 
butcher's hands, remove meat from the paper, 
put it on an earthen dish and set in a cool place. 

Spread out in a thin layer berries of every 
sort, and keep them in a cool, dry, and dark 
place. If they seem soft and not likely to keep, 
stew them in a sugar syrup. 

Agate-ware pots with close-fitting covers 
make excellent cake-boxes. 



Catering tor Zvifo, 267 

Lettuce may be pulled apart, rinsed, and put 
directly on the ice in very hot weather, and be 
all the better for this treatment. 

If meat is put on the ice, place between 
the- ice and plate a thickness of flannel ; this 
will keep the ice from melting too fast. 

Cover the meat with a plate. 

The refrigerator should be washed out thor- 
oughly once a week with water in which a tea- 
spoonful of sal-soda has been dissolved. 

By keeping dishes containing food closely 
covered as much as possible, the refrigerator 
may be kept free from odors. 

Baked onions are almost as delicious as those 
roasted in the ashes, or before the logs in the 
open fireplace. 

Do not peel them, but set them in a hot oven 
to bake until tender. Take off" the skins care- 
fully and serve with butter, salt, and pepper. 

" China eggs " are a pretty garnish to a dish 
of hashed meat or picked-up fish ; boil them 
just hard enough to make them shell easily, 
and serve whole and hot. 

Let cake cool a little before taking it from 
the pans. 

When testing cake to see if it is baked 
enough, use a slender broom-straw, thrusting 
it gently into the edge first, and then into the 



268 Catering tor Zvoo, 

middle ; if put into the middle part suddenly, 
or too soon, the cake may fall. 

Before scraps of bread have a chance to be- 
come musty, dry them thoroughly in the oven ; 
put away in a covered jar, and when enough 
has accumulated, roll to powder on the mould- 
ing board, and put into jars or tin boxes for 
breading, etc. 

Scraps of Neufchatel or cream cheese may 
be made to serve again by mixing them with 
butter and cream, or milk, and spreading them 
on banquet crackers. Make into sandwiches 
and serve with salad. 

FLAVORINGS. 

Vanilla, almond, rose, coflfee, caramel, ma- 
raschino, chopped almonds, grated cocoanut, 
pounded macaroons, fruit juices, rum, pis- 
tachio, orange, lemon, kirsch, sherry, brandy, 
madeira, curacoa, chocolate, orange -flower 
water, cordials, and liqueurs form most of the 
flavorings in general use. 

Mrs. Sherwood gives the following rules for 
the service of wine at a dinner party : 

White wine with the fish, sherry with the 
soup, and claret and champagne with the 
roast; champagne is either " dry " or sweet, 
and must not be decanted, but must be kept in 
ice-pails and opened when needed. 



Catering for ^wo. 269 

Madeira and port wines accompany the game ; 
these are decanted, and should not be cold, but 
of the temperature of the room. 

A delicious claret-punch for luncheons or 
suppers is made from claret, vichy, lemons, 
sugar, and cracked ice, in proportions to suit 
the taste. 

Sherbets and sorbets are served in glasses 
after the game. 

Roman-punch is a lemon sherbet to which 
Jamaica rum has been added in the proportion 
of one cupful of rum to one quart of sherbet. 

For a lemon sherbet, boil together for twenty 
minutes, one pint of sugar, and one scant quart 
of water, and when cool, add a cupful of lemon- 
juice and the grated rind of two lemons ; mix 
together and freeze until firm. 

Strawberry and orange sherbets are made in 
the same way, adding a little lemon-juice. A 
mixture of fruit juices makes delicious sherbets 
or sorbets ; the latter are sherbets only half 
frozen . 

A portion of the dinner-roll dough may have 
stoned dates worked into it ; this is called date 
bread and is delicious for luncheon. Put the 
dates in close together, and let it raise the same 
as any bread dough. To be eaten cold. 

Potatoes should be thinly pared, as the best 
part lies next the skin. 

The sweetness of fruit also lies next the skin. 



270 Catering tor ^wo. 

Never throw away milk or cream because it 
has soured : allow it to become loppered, or 
thick, and use it for corn-bread or griddle- 
cakes. When thick and ice cold, it may be 
whipped with the egg-beater and it makes then 
a refreshing drink in hot weather. Whip it 
about five minutes. Sour milk and molasses 
both contain lactic acid, an element found in 
gastric juice. Lactic acid is a digestive fer- 
ment. 

Soured (unsweetened) condensed milk may 
have two parts or a little more of water added 
to it, when it may be used in cooking the same 
as other sour milk. 

Eggs must be cold and very fresh to whip 
well. 

When the white of an egg after being frothed 
begins to separate, a few drops of lemon-juice 
added will remedy the trouble. 

Always use earthen -ware for whisking eggs 
in. 

Nasturtiums make a pretty as well as an appe- 
tizing garnish for meats and salads ; to be at 
their best they must be freshly picked. The 
stems as well as the blossoms are edible. 

Florists now sell them in pots so that they 
are easily obtainable for use on the table. 

In serving fresh peaches peel, stone, and 



J 



Catering for ZTwo. 271 

halve. Do not slice, but serve in halves, with 
a lump of ice in each, with sugar to taste. 

After peeling, cover with a wet cloth ; set on 
ice until well chilled, and add ice and sugar at 
serving-time. 

In canning fruits, turn the filled jars upside- 
down for a week, examining them each morn- 
ing. 

If any juice exudes, the jar is not air-tight, 
and the contents are likely to spoil : such must 
be cooked over again, or be used very soon. 

To blanch is to scald with boiling water so 
that skins of fruits, nuts, or sweetbreads, etc., 
may be removed with greater ease. 

A nice filling for sandwiches may be made 
by mincing or pounding meat very fine, mixing 
it to a paste with cream or melted butter, and 
seasoning to taste. 

THINGS TO KBBP ON HAND. 

Canned tomatoes, corn, milk, sardines, sal- 
mon, potted ham, salt pork, flour, soda, baking- 
powder, salt, sugar, eggs, macaroni, butter, 
cheese, molasses, spices, vinegar, crackers, tea, 
coflFee, cocoa, chocolate, smoked-beef, lemons, 
pepper, mustard, Indian-meal, hominy, corn- 
starch, oat-meal, potatoes, apples, cabbage or 
celery, onions, olives, capers, extract of beef, 
salt codfish, rice, tapioca, lima-beans, fruit cake, 



272 Catering; for ^wo. 

maple-sugar, and honey : also soap, starch, 
blueing, borax, and sapolio. 

Serve souffles in separate courses ; omelettes 
also. Small sandwiches, or bread and cheese, 
may be passed with them. 

A fish souffle will take the place of a fish 
course. 

The sweet Spanish peppers should be eaten 
with salt the same as radishes. 

A continual change in the bill of fare is de- 
sirable : one tires of the same dessert if seen too 
often, no matter how delicious it is, unless pos- 
sibly ice-cream may be an exception. 

If part of a dish be left over, wait a day or 
two before serving it again, and let weeks 
elapse before preparing it again. In this way 
the table will always present a pleasant sur- 
prise. 

Three tablespoonfuls of rice may be substi- 
tuted for tapioca in the ' ' tapioca meringue 
pudding." 

Soak the rice over night in cold water, and 
add milk, eggs, etc., in the morning. 

The little salt bags (ten-cent size) make roomy 
mittens for sweeping ; they will also be found 
of service about the stove, especially when re- 
moving dishes from hot ovens, as they protect 
both wrists and hands which a holder often fails 
to do. 



Catering tor ^wo. 273 

Straitiing-cloths, dish-cloths, etc., should be 
thoroughly cleaned by boiling in washing soda 
or pearline ; one teaspoonful to a quart of cold 
water. 

In hot weather this should be done daily. 

Rubber gloves protect the hands from veget- 
able and fruit stains ; they are especially 
needed in making grape jelly. 

Get them several sizes too large or the hand 
will not have room for free action. 

Grease will melt them. 

When a dish seems rather tasteless a dash of 
salt will often improve it. This also applies to 
pudding and other sweet dishes. 

Jellies give zest to meats and vegetables, as do 
pickles also. 

Olives, celery, and salted nuts are passed 
between the courses to prepare the palate for 
the dishes which are to follow. 

In cooking vegetables, those of one size 
should be selected, if possible, otherwise the 
larger ones should be cut into pieces to equal 
the smaller. 

Onions may be cut nearly through, leaving 
just enough uncut to hold the pieces together. 
In this way all will be cooked at the same 
time. 

The earthen pipkin is a valuable cooking 

18 



274 Catering toe XLvoo. 

utensil, as it may be easily kept sweet and 
clean, and things cook evenly and keep hot 
in it. 

A " cupful " in all cases is half a pint. 

Any preserved citron which is left over at 
'springtime may be drained from the syrup, 
dried a little in the oven and packed away in 
glass to be used in cakes and puddings at any 
time : thus prepared it will keep for years. 

Pork tenderloins may be cut in three-quarter- 
inch slices (across instead of lengthwise) breaded 
•with cracker crumbs and fried the same as 
directed for veal cutlets ; serve with lemon 
marmalade, or apple jelly and pickled tomatoes, 
or they may be broiled. 

Left-over stewed potatoes may be mashed 
fine with a fork, minced parsley added, formed 
into cakes, dipped into cracker crumbs and 
fried delicately in a little butter ; they are 
delicious prepared in this way. 

Ivcft-over mashed potatoes are excellent 
breaded with cracker crumbs, fried in butter 
and used as a border around hashed meats ; lay 
a sprig of parsley or watercress on each cake. 

Keep a bottle of linseed-oil and lime-water 
(mixed in equal parts) in readiness to use for 
burns or scalds. Shake well, spread upon old 
table-linen, and bind on the injured place. 



Catering tor XTwo. 275 

TO DRAW POULTRY. 

Make an incision in the breast end of the 
turkey, take out the crop, loosen the windpipe 
and the other long stringy tube, cutting them 
out as low down as possible, which will make 
the drawing of the lower entrails easier. 

Cut a slit across the lower end of the fowl 
between leg and tail large enough to admit the 
hand. Slip in the hand straight, pressing the 
back of the hand close to the side of the body 
and between body and entrails ; push up as far 
as possible ; now curve the fingers, catch the en- 
trails at the upper end, and draw out the entire 
mass, slowly, so as not to break the gall, which 
is a little green sac lying against the liver, 
and which if crushed will give a bitter taste to 
everything it touches. 

Take out the liver and heart ; cut oflf any 
green portion on the liver where the gall has 
rested ; wash quickly and put away. 

Cut the gizzard open ; tear out the lining; 
wash and scrape it thoroughly and put it away. 

Cut out all pieces of nice fat found among the 
entrails, and after washing lay it over the turkey 
to keep it moist when roasting. 

Cut out the oil-sac on the tail. 

Always buy fat poultry : there is no economy 
in thin, scrawny meat of any kind, especially 
poultry. 



276 Catering tot (Two. 

COOKING UTENSILS. 

Wire spoon, cooking spoons, knives and 
forks, can-opener, apple-corer, iron dish-cloth, 
flour-sifter, sugar-scoops, quart, pint, half-pint 
and gill measures, one iron spider, two small 
sheet-iron frying-pans, one large sheet-iron 
frying-pan, half a dozen saucepans of assorted 
sizes, earthenware pudding-dishes, bread and 
cake tins, one large pot over which a steamer 
will fit, two dripping-pans for roasting, one 
to fit over the other, wire broiler, graters, 
coflFee-grinder, close-fitting covers for all pots, 
pans, etc., chopping-bowl and -knife, potato- 
masher, wooden pestle, flour-dredge, moulding- 
board, rolling-pin, teakettle, canisters for tea, 
coffee, and spices. Universal pot, pipkins — 
several sizes, bread pot, small knife for paring 
vegetables, whetstone, muffin rings, gem or 
muffin pans, pie plates, biscuit tins, meat-racks, 
tea-stands, coffee-strainer, sieves, meat-grinder, 
long clinch-nails for skewers, skimmer, cake- 
turner, wooden spoons, colanders, saw bread- 
knife, yellow earthen bowls, meat-block, two 
funnels ; one small for bottles, a large one for 
jugs. 

TO LAY THE DINNER-TABLE. 

The table should first be covered with a cloth 
of thick cotton flannel which comes for this 



Catering tor XTwo. 277 

purpose, securely fastened on by pinning the 
corners together underneath. 

Over this spread the damask cloth. 

A circular mirror or a piece of embroidered 
linen may fill the centre of the table for the 
flowers to stand on. At the right of each place 
put a dessert-spoon, teaspoon, a knife for the 
salad course, a larger knife for the meat course, 
soup-spoon and oyster-fork, if oysters are served. 

At the left, place two forks : if a fish course 
forms part of the meal add also a small fish- 
knife and -fork. 

As each knife and fork is used it is removed 
with the plate, and the confusion and extra 
work of bringing in fresh knives and forks is 
avoided. 

As the meal progresses, the table is gradually 
cleared, until, when the time for dessert arrives, 
nothing is left but the glasses, flowers, and the 
spoons for dessert. The space between the 
knives and forks should be wide enough for 
the dinner-plate, before which stands the salt- 
cellar, pepper-box, butter-plate, and glasses for 
water, Apollinaris, and wine. 

Use tumblers for the ice-water, small tall 
glasses for Apollinaris, and appropriate glasses 
for the wine. 

The napkin may hold the dinner-roll, or piece 
of bread, or the roll may be laid upon the but- 
ter-plate, which may also contain a pat of but- 



278 Catering tor ^wo. 

ter. All these arrangements make the serving 
of a dinner easier. 

The bread, butter, and water should be put 
upon the table just before the meal is an- 
nounced. The first course should be upon the 
table on sitting down, and the meat and vege- 
tables in hot covered dishes be within easy reach 
on a side table. The salad may also be on the side 
table to replace the meat course as soon as it is 
removed. 

Before serving the dessert, brush off all 
crumbs, then bring on coffee and fruit and the 
finger-bowls on the plates intended for fruit or 
bon-bons. 

Olives, celery, salted nuts, pickles, or jellies 
should be on the table from the beginning of 
the meal : the first three are eaten between the 
courses ; the pickles and jellies with the meat. 

When there is no maid to wait at table, the 
side table is indispensable to the housewife who 
would save herself unnecessary steps, and have 
the dinner pass off without confusion. 

The most convenient side tables are those in 
the form of an open closet, having a set of 
shelves, with large castors which render them 
easy to push about. 

A table of this sort should contain all the ex- 
tra knives, forks, and spoons, and other things 
needed for the meal, and, when possible, the 
food for the succeeding courses. 



Catering tor ^wo. 279 

The lamp or gas-stove for hot water may also 
find a place here, and the dishes as they are re- 
moved from the dinner-table. 

Griddle-cakes may be served from the side 
table, baked on the gas or oil stove ; if the table 
is too high to permit of turning the cakes easily, 
put the stove on a waiter and set this on a chair. 

Use a soapstone griddle, or wash thoroughly 
an old iron griddle, rub it with salt, and do not 
grease ; the butter in the batter will be suflfi- 
cient to keep cakes from sticking. 

Ivct the table-linen be as fine and good as the 
purse will allow, and whenever possible have a 
few flowers on the table as a centrepiece. 

A growing plant is in good taste, and the pot 
may be covered with green cr^pe paper. 

If the napery is not very fine, have it ironed 
very wet, with a heavy, hot iron until perfectly 
dry. 

Water starch (that is extremely thin starch) 
may be used for the cloth but not for the nap- 
kins : thus treated, table linen will have a rich 
gloss and look well even if the quality is not 
the best and finest. 

Colored cloths are out of place on the dinner 
table. 

Colored napkins are used when the fruit comes 
on. 

Doilies of drawn work at each place save the 
cloth, and serve to make the table attractive. 



28o Catering for ^wo. 

With linen perfectly laundered and spotless, 
glass sparkling, and the silver shining, a table 
may be elegant no matter how inexpensive the 
furnishings. 

However informal the breakfast and luncheon, 
it is always well to make the dinner a meal of 
some ceremony. 

Even if the viands are of the simplest, and 
the table appointments the plainest, a dinner 
served with regularity yields enjoyment and 
comfort to those partaking of it, and will be 
found to be less trouble than if served hap- 
hazard. 

The style of putting all the dishes on the table 
at once is steadily growing out of favor in most 
families ; it is found to be more conducive to the 
healthful enjoyment of food to serve but a few 
things at a time, making separate courses of the 
dishes whenever practicable. This plan tempts 
the appetite when too bountiful a supply of food 
would discourage it. 

If only a very simple meal is desired (of 
two courses) add an extra vegetable, or increase 
the quantity of those mentioned, and select a 
somewhat rich dessert. 



INDEX. 



SOUPS. 



Asparagus, cream of 
Beans, pur^e of . 
Beef-tea 

Bouillon (or consomm 
Celery soup 
Chicken broth 
Clam soup . 
Corn soup . 
Julienne consomm^ 
Lamb broth, spiced 

with lemon 
Macaroni soup . 
Mutton broth 
Ox-tail soup 
Oyster stew . 
Peas, consommd with 

purde of green 
Potato pur^e 
Rice, consomm6 with 
Soup with egg . 
Soup-stock (clear) 
Split-pea soup 
Tomato, bisque . 

cream puree 
Vegetable soup . 



^) 



green 



io8 
136 
212 

41 

76 

7 

143 

163 

98 

130 
48 
56 
14 
87 
120 
156 
62 

35 

I 
27 
28 
70 
20 

83 
114 



281 



28a ITnDej. 



FISH, 



Clam, chowder 140 

fritters 221 

Codfish, balls 204 

picked-up 202 

Fresh fish, boiled with HoUandaise sauce . 93 

broiled 209 

fried 203 

spiced 221 

stuffed and baked 98 

Oyster, cocktails 184 

croustade 189 

patties 194 

pie 2 

Oysters, escalloped 38 

fried 106 

on the half-shell 190 

Salmop with HoUandaise sauce . . 195 

Smelts, fried 190 

Souffle 195 

MEATS. 

Beef, a la mode 94 

corned ....... 23 

frizzled 196 

roast, porter-house 21 

roast, sirloin 8 

soup-meat 42 

steak, Hamburg 195 

steak, porter-house 169 

steak pudding 115 

steak, round 6 

steak with onions 144 

stew (cold roast) 23 

stew with sweet potatoes . . .13 

tongue 192 

various ways of using the coarse ends . 171 



ftiDcj. 



283 



Birds .... 
Chicken, blanquetteof 
broiled 

browned in butter . 
croquettes (of birds) 
fricassee . 
fried 
patties 
roast 

smothered 
souffle 
Duck, roast 
Hash .... 

baked 

Lamb, browned in spiced sauce 
chops, breaded (French) 

broiled .... 
cutlets and stew from roast 
roast 

stuffed . 
stew 
Iviver and bacon 
Meat pie, baked . 
Mutton, boiled, caper sauce 
Pork. 

bacon and eggs 
ham, baked (smoked) 

fried, cream gravy (smoked) 
omelette 
on toast 
roast, savory stuffing (fresh) 
pork and beans 

chops, fried, cream gravy 
roast rib and loin 
tenderloin, fried and boiled 
sausage, fried and baked 
meat .... 
souse (pickled pigs' feet) 



222 

190 
168 

57 
222 

44 

57 

194 

43 
201 
194 
152 

23 
213 
129 

185 
77 
50 
29 

49 

30 

208 

67, 72 
15 

208 
157 

36 
207 
210 
148 
121 

84 
125 
84, 274 
204 
225 
224 



284 



•ffnDej. 



Pot-roast, mutton 


• • • 39 


stew with lamb kidneys . 


. 165 


top-sirloin 


.71 


under-round or cross-rib 


. 164 


Potted meats 


. 220 


Remnants, of cold oven roasts or broils, 126, 197 


poultry, veal, or lamb 


■ 197 


Turkey, roast 


• 175 


Veal, cutlets 


. 109 


loaf 


. 210 


pot-pie (raised crust) 


63 


roast (stuffed) . 


88 



VEGETABlwES 

Asparagus on toast 
Beans, butter 

lima 

string 
Beets .... 
Cabbage, fried 

hot slaw . 
Cape May omelette . 
Cauliflower, fritters . 

with Hollandaise sauce 
Corn, on the cob 

fritters 

stewed 
Cucumbers . 

with cream 
Greens (beet-tops, dandelions, and spinach 
Hominy, boiled . 

fried 
Macaroni with cheese 
Onions, baked in milk 

boiled 

browned in butter . 

roasted in the oven 



91 

lOI 

59 

lOI 

137 
158 
100 

52 

64 
166 

66 
234 

36 

loi 

221 

) III 

126 

36 

9 

138 

90 

131 
267 



•ffnDei. 



285 



Parsnip, buttered 


. 45 


patties .... 


. 37 


with cream sauce . 


.' 16 


Peas, green (stewed) . 


. 52 


Potatoes, baked . 


• 79 


balls (baked) . 


• 153 


boiled (new) . 


. 212 


with cream sauce 


. 51 


breaded .... 


. 213 


broiled .... 


. 165 


browned in milk 


. no 


in the oven . . . . 


. 117 


cakes 


99, 274 


croquettes 


. 137 


escalloped 


• • 31 


fried .... 


. 165 


French .... 


• 95 


hashed, or stewed, with crearc 


I gravy . 158 


with parsley 


• 59 


lyonnaise 


9 


mashed .... 


• 73 


Saratoga chips 


. 130 


sweet, baked or broiled . 


. 150 


browned in the oven . 


85, 150 


Rice, boiled 


. . 16 


croquettes 


. . 89 


fried .... 


. 44 


Spaghetti with tomato sauce 


. 227 


Spinach with egg sauce 


. Ill 


Squash, baked . 


. 145 


mashed .... 


. 90 


Succotash .... 


• 95 


Tomatoes, baked 


. . 65 


escalloped 


. 45 


fritters .... 


. 225 


on toast .... 


. 74 


stewed .... 


. 11,7 


in butter 


. 37 



286 UnDej, 

Turnips and potatoes mashed together 24, 145 

breaded 149 

browned in butter 86 

with cream sauce 31 

SALADS. 

Salad, apple 95 

asparagus 139 

cabbage 53 

celery 24 

chicken 102 

chicory, with French dressing . . 32 

cold meat 141 

cold slaw ...... 38 

egg, with greens 112 

lettuce, with French dressing . . 60 

onion 117 

oyster 45 

potato, with greens . . . .131 

for tea or luncheon .... 200 

sardine 214 

string-bean 160 

sweetbread 200 

tomato 9, 112 

and celery 191 

DESSERTS. 

Apples, baked, with cream . . . 161 

with meringue 155 

Cake. 

cake, chocolate 113 

cream 113 

fruit 236 

gold and silver 236 

lemon . . . . . . 10, 11 

loaf 53 



Cake — f Con tin ued) 

molasses .... 

pound 

sponge 

whipped-cream . 

chocolate custard for layer cake 

frosting for cakes and puddings 

gingersnaps .... 

hot ginger bread and wafers , 

soft gingerbread 

vanilla wafers ... 

Charlotte russe .... 
Custard, boiled .... 
Dumplings, steamed, caramel sauce 
Floating island .... 
French toast .... 
Fruit dumplings, baked 

fritters 

Gelatine jelly, caramel 

caramel sea-foam mouss^ 

chocolate, with custard . 

coffee, Bavarian cream . 

orange, with whipped cream . 

pineapple, with whipped cream 

princess, with sea-foam cream 

strawberry 
whip 

wine 
Ice-cream . 

Muskmelon with ice-cream 
Pie, apple . 

cherry 

huckleberry 

lemon meringue 

mince 

peach 

rhubarb . 

squash 



and fruit 



237 

237 

226 

10 

223 

I, 232 

238 

239 
240 
119 
173 
154 
17 
118 

235 
81 

234 

5 

230 

154 

229 

178 

60 

151 

68 

229 

91 

185 

234 

104 

105 

167 

39 

181 

104 

104 

166 



2S8 



•ffnOej, 



Pineapple, jardiniere . 
with floating island 
Pudding, banana meringue 
blackberry 

cherry .... 
chocolate 

jelly, with sea-foam cream 
corn-starch, with candied fruit 

lemon meringue (baked) 
cottage 
farina 
Indian 

lemon meringue 
orange tapioca, with whipped 
plum 
prune 
queen's . 
rice, baked 

boiled, whipped-egg sauce 

meringue 
roly-poly, with whipped-egg 
steamed, with oranges . 
suet 
sultana 
tapioca, baked 

cream . 

meringue 
Strawberry shortcake 

SAUCES. 



MKAT AND VEGETABI<E SAUCES. 

Cream gravy, for bacon, etc. 

for fresh pork 
Onion butter 
Sauce, bread 

caper 

•curry 



flliDcj. 289 

Sauce — ( Con tin ued) 

drawu butter (or white) . . . 16, 90 
Espagnole (or brown), for stews, etc. . 198 

Hollandaise 94 

mint 51 

parsley 51 

tartare 190 

wine . . . . . . -51 

PUDDING SAUCES. 

Caramel (burnt sugar) . . . .18 

Maple-sugar syrup 202 

Sauce, caramel 18 

caramel cream 189 

custard 47 

egg, whipped 4 

hard 82, 180 

liquid 107, 180 

strawberry-shortcake .... 233 

tutti-frutti 233 

wine 180 

Sea-foam cream 232 

Substitute for whipped cream ... 34 

Sugar syrup 234 

Whipped cream 33 

SAI^AD DRESSINGS. 

French dressing . . . . 24, 32 
Mayonnaise . . . .46, 103, 141 
Tarragon vinegar 261 

TABI^E-SAUCES. 

Apples, fried 158 

Apple-sauce, baked 127 

hot 85 



390 



•ffiiDej. 



Cranberry-sauce, strained . 






177 


whole .... 






178 


Peaches, stewed and baked 






12 


Prunes, stewed . 






12 


Rhubarb, baked 






. 261 


stewed .... 






88 


Strawberries, raspberries, and 


blackber 




ries, stewed 


• 


II 


PICKI^KS AND REWSHBS. 




Chili sauce 




150 


Marmplade, lemon 






79 


tomato .... 






1^8 


Pickled, cabbage 






4 


cucumbers 






260 


green tomatoes 






259 


string-beans 






260 


Spiced tomato sauce, cold 






172 


hot 






122 



JEI.I.IES. 

Jelly, crab-apple . . . . . 254 

currant . 256 

grape . .... . .255 

quince 250 

PRESERVES. 

Canned, cherries 251 

peaches 247 

plums 251 

strawberries, raspberries, and blackber- 
ries II 

Preserved, citron . . . . . 253 

grapes 252 

orange-peel (candied) .... 247 



IFnDej. 



2QI 



Preserved, peaches 






248 


spiced 






249 


pineapple 






250 


candied 






105 


quinces .... 






250 


Syrup from berries 






257 


BREAD 






Biscuits (baking-powder) . 




159 


or dinner rolls (yeast) . 






J32 


Bread (yeast) 








date (yeast) 






269 


gluten (yeast) . 






218 


milk (yeast) . 






215 


Cornbread .... 




123 


, 226 


Muffins (baking-powder) . 






206 


Graham .... 






213 


Indian meal 






224 


yeast (prune pudding batter) 






97 


MISCBLIvANBOUS. 






Bread-crumbs for breading and pudd 


ings . 


212 


Cheese, on toast 




203 


some varieties 




. 


265 


Chocolate .... 




. 


162 


Coffee .... 




147 


, 245 


Cooking utensils 






276 


Crust, for oyster-patties 
for pot-pies and stew-pies 






193 




. 


159 


Eggs, au gratin . 




. 




beauregarde . 




. 


t88 


poached 






206 


scrambled .... 






207 


Flavorings .... 




. 


268 


Fondant, or foundation, for cream ca 


indies 


241 


Frosting for cakes and puddings 


. 


II 


232 



•ffnDej. 



Grape-fruit . 
Griddle-cakCvS, bread 

buckwheat 

wheat and Indian 
Helpful suggestions 
Home-made yeast 
Indian-meal mush 
Lemonade . 
Lemon extract . 
Milk toast . 
Mince-meat 
Oatmeal 
Oranges 
Pie-crust (flaky) 
Pot-cheese with watercresses 
Punch 

Salted almonds 
Sandwiches 

cheese 

sardine 
Sherbets and sorbets . 
Stuffing, bread and butter 

onion 
Sugar-plums, chocolate 

nut candies 
Tea .... 
Things to keep on hand 
To draw poultry 
To lay the dinner-table 
Un fermented grape-juice 
Vanilla extract . 



-bar, 



. i88 

. 211 
. 214 

211 
. 262 
. 219 
. 205 
. 258 
. 258 

202 

181, 246 

. 205 

. 103 

. 81 

. 269 

. 80 

. 271 

32, 268 

. 214 

. 269 

49, 126 
. 152 
and 
. 242 
. 26 
. 271 

. 275 

. 276 

• 257 

. 258 



BOOKS FOR THE HOUSEHOLD 



household Economics. A Course of Lectures in the 
School of Economics of, the University of Wisconsin. 
By Helen Campbell, author of " Prisoners of Poverty," 
"American Girls' Home Book," etc. Octavo, gilt 
top $1.50 

"A truly remarkable work. . . . the author evinces a thorough 
mowledge of her subject, and she treats it in a luminous and logical 
nanner, and is thoroughly practical . . . the book should be read in 
very intelligent household where the author's living voice cannot be 
leard." — iV^. V. Observer. 

" Every housewife who is ambitious to excel in housekeeping should 
ead, learn, mark, and inwardly digest the teachings of these highly in- 
tructive lectures on household economics." — Home Journal. 

rhe Majestic Family Cook-Book. By Adolphe Gal- 
LIER, Chefoi the Hotel Majestic, New York. Containing 
1300 selected receipts simplified for the use of house- 
keepers ; also a few choice bills of fare. 8vo . $2.50 

M. Gallier has taken advantage of his long professional career in the 
ulinary art, and now presents in convenient form his entire lore in a 
leatly printed volume . . . the author may be considered the most 
:Ccomplished of artists . . . the book is invaluable for every house- 
lold."— A^. Y. Times. 

rhree Hundred and Sixty-Six Dinners. Suggested by 

M. E. N. 16°, gilt top $1.25 

" ' 366 Dinners' is a dainty little volume in white and blue, which will 
loubtless be as useful to the hostess as its appearance would be attractive 
the guests ; for it is not a cook-book in brown oil-cloth covers, to be 
elegated to the floury hands of the cook, but a calendar of menus to be 
;ept off the drawing-room table only because early guests might look in it 
inder the day of the month and discover what was to be given them." 



r. P. PUTNAM'S SONS, New York & London 



PRACTICAL COOK BOOKS 

Good-Living A Practical Cookery Book for Tow 
and Country. By Sara Van Buren Brugi^re. 8vc 

cloth $2 

This book contains over 1,300 recipes drawn from highest authoriti« 
and many countries ; from France, Belgium, England, Holland, Denmarl 
Spain, Italy, Austria, Russia, as well as nearer home, to suit the varie 
tastes of our cosmopolitan community. All the plainer dishes whic 
every family requires, and which are generally slighted because they ar 
plain and simple, have received careful study ; roasting, bread- an 
butter-making, etc., having had great attention. Besides these there i 
an endless variety of entries or side-dishes to suit the palate of th 
gourmet, all simple and easy to make, giving a large scope to the house 
keeper to furnish a varied table with a comparatively limited variety c 
material. Another aim, almost if not quite equal, is economy, ever 
receipt given being within the reach of any family of moderate, eve 
modest, means, in either city or country. 

The Franco-American Cookery Book ; or, How t< 
Live Well and Wisely Every Day in the Year 

Containing over 2,000 Recipes. By Felix J. Deliee 
Caterer of the New York Club ; Ex-Chef of the Unioi 
and Manhattan Clubs. Large octavo, half leather 
illustrated $3 5( 

A new Treatise, containing 365 different Bills of Fare, giving concis 
instructions how to properly prepare and serve all kinds of domestic am 
foreign culinary provisions in every way for each succeeding season, an( 
mostly convenient for private families, clubs, restaurants, hotels, etc., etc 

" In form, print, and value to economical taste it is, without doubt, th 
best book of cookery ever issued from the American press." — Globt 
Boston. 

" The most extensive work on cookery printed in this country."— /V?^/ 
Pittsburg. 

Quick Cooking. A Book of Culinary Heresies for th< 
Busy Wives and Mothers of the Land. By One 01 
THE Heretics. i6mo, cloth . . . . 75 cts 

" A delightful addition to the serious Jiterature of cooking." — Bostoi 
Post. 

" A treasure for busy wives, mothers, and housekeepers." — Chaiau 
fuan. 



G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS, New York & Londoi 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



K^ zC%.^ 



The Arthur and Elizabeth 
SCHLESINGER LIBRARY 

on the History of Women 
in America 

RADCUFFE COLLEGE 




Transferred from 
New England Deposit Library 



I : 



K 






\ . 



I • 




» \ 



. \ 



9 



I 



'.> 



■i'. 



M i 



/ 





/' 









1 



CATERING FOR TWO 

COMFORT AND ECONOMY 
FOR SMALL HOUSEHOLDS 



BY 
ALICE L. JAMES 



• J -^ J J 



•- ••• ^' .-- -- - 



# •  -> J < 
•• • • ' ■> * 



• • <• J * ' * 

• -■ * ■* ^ 



:\:# 



^ -» -> 



G. P. PUTNAM^S SONS 
NEW YORK AND LONDON 
%\t Jlntcherbochei ^ress 

1898 



»J 



Kc- 'birC> 



6 r\. z> '-. : 



AjarvardN 

(UNIVERSITYl 
LIBRARY 



Copyright, 1898 

BY 

G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS 



I. 



• •• • 



• •• • • 



* • • 

•• • 



• • « 

• • • • 

• • • 



• • • 



• •• 



• • • • 

*• • • •• • 



• •• 









••• 



• •• 



••• ••• 



.• • 



,• •, 



• •• 

• • 

• •• 



• •••• ••• 

• • • • 

•• •• 

• • • 

• • •• • 



• •• 






• -,• 






TCbe Itnfckerboclier pre90» Hew Sork 



To 
MARY FRANCES HARMAN 



111 



Li. 



PREFACE. 

THE difficulty of reducing the average rules 
of the cook books to meet the wants of a 
family of two or three, added to the urgent 
solicitations of friends, has suggested to the 
writer the need of this little book. 

Dining well on small means is an art only to 
be acquired by long experience, and the object 
of the following chapters is to give the result 
of sixteen years* labor and study, so that the 
way may be made easier for others just taking 
upon themselves the duties of a housewife. 

In the accompanying menus the directions 
are exact and absolutely reliable. 

There is no indefinite ** a little " of this, or 
"just enough ** of that, to puzzle the beginner, 
and the dishes, which are nourishing and ap- 
petizing, are inexpensive as well, a considera- 
tion not always taken into account. 

Catering for Two is for the inexperienced 
cook, and while the proportions are limited to 
the needs of two, or at most three, it is only 
necessary to double the rules to make the quan- 
tities sufficient for the ordinary family. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

DINNERS I 

COMPANY I^UNCHEONS . . . 183 

BRBAKPAST) TEA, AND I^UNCHEON DISHES. 192 

FANCY DESSERTS 229 

MISCEI.I«ANEOnS RECIPES . . -245 
HEI,PFUl, SUGGESTIONS . . .262 
INDEX 281 



Vll 



^ 



CATERING FOR TWO. 



DINNERS. 
I. 

' Consotnm^ with rice. 

Oyster pie. 

Pickled cabbage. Grape jelly. 

Bgg salad with greens. 
Crackers. Cheese. 

Roly-poly peach pudding. 
Bgg sauce. 

Tea or coffee. Caramel jelly. 



" * t 



Alternative : Round steak (fried). f • 

Farina pudding. 

C0NS0MM6 WITH RICE. 

Get a shank of mutton weighing about two 

pounds, or two shanks weighing a pound each. 

Wipe with a damp cloth and cut off any dried 



2 Catering tot tTvoo. 

outer skin, dredge with two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, pour on a quart of cold water, and, aflef 
soaking a few hours, simmer for several hours, 
covered closely. 

Strain oflF this liquor, pour over the bones and 
meat enough cold water to cover, and cook 
again for another hour. Strain and add to 
the first quantity of liquor and throw away 
the bones and meat. Salt to taste, add an 
onion, carrot, and turnip, and cook until the 
vegetables are tender ; these may be put away 
for a salad, and when the broth is cold, take 
oflF the cake of fat. There should be nearly a 
quart of solid jelly. Take a pint of this, add a 
tablespoonful of washed rice, and cook gently 
until the rice is tender. 

A little minced parsley may be added at the 
last moment. 

This broth is much relished by the sick, and 
may be varied in many ways. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Twenty-five medium-sized freshened oysters. 

Slice very thin a cupful of raw potatoes, pour 
on them one cup of rich, sweet milk, cover the 
dish (of earthenware) closely, and cook on top 
of the stove until done. Do not stir them, but 
watch carefully that they do not bum. 

When the potatoes are cool, place the oysters 
on top of them, pepper and salt lightly, add the 



Cateritid toe ^wo. 3 

oyster liquor and a tablespoonfiil of butter in 
small pieces. Place over all a cover of pie- 
crust, made as follows, and bake in a very hot 
oven for fifteen minutes. 

Sift together a cup of flour and half a tea- 
spoonful of salt and cut into it with a knife 
two heaping tablespoonfiils of lard as cold and 
hard as ice can make it. 

When the lard is the size of peas, stir in 
with a fork four tablespoon fuls of ice-water, 
and mould quickly into a ball ; flour the mould- 
ing-board, roll out once, cut a few little slits or 
fancy figures in the centre, and lay upon the 
oysters. Trim oflF the overlapping edges and 
bake at once. Make any paste that is left into 
a little tart. 

ROLY-POLY PUDDING (BAKED). 

Sift together one cup of flour, one teaspoon- 
fiil of baking powder, and half a teaspoonful 
of salt. Chop this with a scant half-cup of suet 
(ice cold) and mix quickly with two thirds of 
a cup of ice-cold water. 

Mould into a long roll and roll out on a 
floured moulding-board as thin as it will hold 
together. 

Have ready three or four peeled and sliced 
fine juicy peaches (canned will do), cover the 
paste with them, dredge lightly with flour, and 
roll up like a ielly roll. 



4 Catering tot ^wo. 

Place in an earthen dish, and bake in a mod- 
erately hot oven for three quarters of an hoar. 

Serve hot with the following sauce : 

Cream with a fork a half-cup of sweet butter, 
add a cupful of granulated sugar, and stir well ; 
then add the yolk of a small egg and stir, then 
the frothed white, whipping the whole until 
very light. 

Now add a quarter-cupful of boiling water, set 
over the teakettle, and cook and stir for several 
minutes. It should be a little thick, and quite 
foamy. 

Flavor with a tablespoonful of wine or 
brandy, or vanilla to taste. 

This sauce will keep a week or longer in a 
cool place, and may be warmed up by setting 
over a teakettle. 

The pudding may be warmed in the oven in a 
covered dish. 

PICKLED CABBAGE. 

One cabbage, solid and crisp. 

Two ounces mustard seed, one heaping table- 
spoonful of black pepper. 

Two tablespoonfuls of salt, one quart cider 
vinegar, three onions, one red-pepper pod, one 
tablespoonful sugar, one heaping tablespoonful 
mixed spices, whole cloves, cinnamon, allspice, 
and a speck of mace. Tie the spices in a piece 
of cheese-cloth, giving them plenty of room. 



Catering for (Two. 5 

Chop the cabbage, or, if preferred, shave into 
ribbons, put it with the onions and pepper 
pod chopped fine into an earthen crock, in 
alternate layers with the salt, pepper, and 
mustard seed. 

Stamp with a potato masher, to press all to- 
gether closely, but not hard enough to bruise 
the cabbage. Put the bag of spices on top, and 
over the whole lay a heavy plate, pouring the 
vinegar on at the last. Put on the cover of the 
jar and set in a cool place. It will be ready for 
the table in a few days, and will keep for months 
in cool weather if made after frost sets in. 

The vinegar must not be heated, nor the cab- 
bage. Everything is in the raw state for this 
pickle. 

CARAMEIv JELLY. 

Melt one "heaping tablespoonful of gelatine 
in two tablespoon fuls of cold water, add the 
juice and grated rind of half a lemon, three 
tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, a pinch of 
ground cinnamon, a teaspoonful of sugar burned 
brown, a few grains of salt, and one cupful and 
four tablespoonfuls of boiling water (in hot 
weather omit the extra four tablespoons of 
boiling water). Stir and strain, and set away to 
harden on ice. 

This makes a delicious dessert with whipped 
cream (and gelatine) heaped on top. 



6 Catetfnd tot tLwo. 

FRIED ROUND STEAK. 

Ask for the prime cut of round steak. 

Trim off the outer edges of fat, cut a piece 
from the steak large enough for a meal, and 
pound with a hammer until it becomes like 
jelly. Press into shape and fry in a smoking- 
hot spidet ; it will take only a minute for each 
side to become brown, as the fire must be very 
hot. 

Place upon a bed of fresh water-cresses. Add 
a tablespoonful of butter to the spider, which 
must now be slightly cooled, stir in an even 
teaspoonful of flour, salt, and pepper ; pour in 
four tablespoonfuls of boiling water, cook a 
minute, and pour over the steak. Serve at 
once. The remainder of the steak may be 
broiled or made into a beefsteak pudding with 
suet crust. 

FARINA PUDDING. 

Stir with a spoon a cup and a half of boiling 
milk until it whirls, then slowly pour in a 
heaping tablespoonful of farina, stirring all the 
time. Add one fourth of an even teaspoonful 
of salt, cook five minutes, and then set in 
another saucepan containing boiling water and 
cook, covered, fifteen minutes, stirring occa- 
sionally. Flavor with lemon or vanilla and 
turn into cups. 

Serve cold with sweetened cream. 



II. 



Chicken broth. 

Sirloin steak (oven roast). 

Lyonnaise potatoes. 

Macaroni with cheese. 

Stewed peaches or prunes. 

Tomato salad. French dressing. 

Whipped-cream cake. 
Stewed strawberries. Tea or coffee. 



Alternative : Beef stew with sweet potatoes. 
Tomato fritters. 



CHICKEN BROTH. 

Put into a kettle the neck, lower parts of the 
leg, and the wing tips of a large fat fowl. 

Dredge with flour and add a pint of cold 
water. After soaking an hour, simmer gently, 
closely covered, until the meat drops from the 
bones, strain and put the broth back on the 
fire, then add a cupful more water to the bones 

7 



8 Catering tor xrwo. 

and cook an hour longer ; add this liquor also 
to the broth and throw away the chicken. 

There should be a scant pint of broth. 

Season with onion juice, salt and pepper, 
and a little parsley, boil up, and serve with 
squares of bread toasted brown in the oven. 

Make chicken salad of the body of the fowl. 

SIRLOIN STEAK. 

A prime cut of sirloin steak will weigh about 
two pounds and a half. Cut ofif enough for 
two broils, and use the rest for the oven roast. 
Trim off the outside edges of fat, dust the meat 
lightly with pepper and flour, and roll it into a 
compact roll, pinning securely together with a 
long clinch-nail. 

These nails may be found at a hardware store, 
and are just the thing^to use for little roasts. 
Broil the meat over a clear, fierce bed of coals 
just long enough to seal up the juices (hasten- 
ing the process as much as possible). 

Place a piece of fat on a baking-tin, put the 
meat upon it, and roast in a hot oven for about 
twenty minutes. Take from the oven, remove 
the skewers, being careful not to disturb the 
shape of the meat, sprinkle with salt, and pour 
over a gravy made by adding a scant half-cup- 
ful of boiling water to the baking-pan in which 
a teaspoonfiil of flour has been browned ; salt 
to taste and pour off the grease. 



Catering tor XLvpo. 9 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

Slice a ctipfal of onions and two cupfuls of 
cold boiled or baked potatoes. 

Put them in alternate layers in a baking-dish 
for the table. Cream a tablespoonful of butter 
with a teaspoonfiil of flour, add half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a cupful of boiling milk, cook 
up, and pour over the potatoes and onions. 

Dust with pepper and bake half an hour, un- 
covered, in a moderate oven, or cover and 
cook on top of the stove ; they are better baked, 
however. 

MACARONI WITH CHEESE. 

Soak half a cupful of macaroni in two cups 
of boiling water twenty minutes, then boil until 
tender, — about thirty minutes. 

Skim out the macaroni, put into an earthen 
dish, sprinkle with half a teaspoonful of salt, a 
dust of pepper, and spread over the top thin 
slices of old English cheese. 

Add a teaspoonful of butter and half a cup of 
milk. 

Bake twenty minutes and serve in the baking- 
dish. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Serve the tomatoes (pared) on lettuce leaves, 
either with a mayonnaise or French dressing. 
They must be ice cold, to be good. 



lo Catering tot XLv^o. 

WHIPPED-CREAM CAKE. 

Sift three times one and a half cupfnls of 
flour lightly put into the measure, with one 
and a half teaspoonfiils of baking-powder, and 
one scant half-teaspoonfnl of salt. 

Rub into the flour a lump of butter the size of 
an egg (this will be a little less than a fourth 
of a cupful). 

Put an egg into a bowl, pour on one scant cup- 
ful of sugar, and beat together, then add slowly 
two thirds of a cupful of water. Add flavoring, 
and pour slowly into the flour, beating it in 
with the hand until the batter is smooth and 
foamy. 

This should take about five minutes ; the 
hand should be freshly washed in hot water for 
the purpose, and the fingers must be spread 
apart in order to beat properly. 

Fill two shallow layer-cake pans half fall, 
not more, and bake in a hot oven. When cold, 
put between and on the top layer two thirds of a 
cup of cream whipped to a stiff" froth. Keep in 
a cold place several hours before serving. 

The remainder of the batter may be made 
into little drop cakes, half a teaspoonful for 
each, and baked on the bottom of inverted 
tins. 

If whipped cream is not at hand, proceed as 
follows, making a lemon cake. 



Cateciitd tot Zv^o. n 

LEMON CAKE. 

Dissolve half a teaspoonful of corn-starch in 
one tablespoonful of cold water, add three table- 
spoonfuls of boiling water, a few grains of salt, 
and boil several minutes. Put into a deep 
bowl two cupfuls of confectioner*s sugar, and 
one third of the juice of one lemon. Add by 
the teaspoonful enough of the corn-starch mix- 
ture to make a paste thin enough to spread 
easily between and on top of the cakes. This 
is a delicious frosting for any cake, and it will 
always be soft. Orange may be substituted for 
lemon if preferred. 

STEWED STRAWBERRIES. 

One cupful of water, one cupful of sugar, 
three cupfuls berries, measured after being 
picked over and rinsed. Boil the sugar and 
water until clear, add the berries, and cook 
two or three minutes after boiling begins. 
This rule will serve for blackberries and rasp- 
berries also, and may be used when canning 
these fruits. Fruit should always be put into a 
boiling syrup; and this is the rule for dried 
fruits also. They should never be soaked ; 
simply washed, and put immediately into the 
boiling syrup. A cupful of berries with a third 
of a cup each of sugar and water is enough for 
one meal. 



12 Catering tor {Tvoo. 

STEWED PEACHES (RIPE). 

Rub the down from the peaches with a coarse 
towel, quarter and stone them. 

Allow one tablespoon ful of sugar and one 
tablespoonful of water for every medium-sized 
peach. 

Put the stones, water, and sugar on to boil for 
a few minutes, remove the former, put in the 
fruit, and when boiling begins cook gently for 
five minutes. 

Peaches may be peeled if liked, but the skins 
are very delicious. 

They may be baked by cutting in halves, 
filling with a tablespoonful of sugar, and add- 
ing a tablespoonful of water to the pan. 

Cover and bake. 

STEWED PRUNES (RICH). 

Make a syrup of two cups of water and one 
cup of sugar, add half a lemon thinly sliced, 
and one pound of prunes which have been 
rinsed, but not soaked, in cold water. Sim- 
mer gently in a covered earthen or agate-ware 
vessel for four hours. Then pour over them 
a syrup made of one cupful of sugar and one 
(or two) cupfuls of boiling water cooked to- 
gether ten minutes. 

Boil the prunes a few minutes longer and 
serve either hot or cold. 



Caterina tor ^wo. 13 

Covered, in a cool place they will keep weeks. 
The little Turkish prune is the best, and this 
will not need the lemon. 

BEEF STEW WITH SWEET POTATOES. 

Have one pound of chuck or stewing beef cut 
into two-inch pieces. 

Dredge with a tablespoon of flour, add a table- 
spoonful of fried salt pork cut into dice (but not 
the grease), and either a piece of red-pepper pod 
the size of a thumb-nail, or a pinch of cayenne. 

Use an earthen or agate vessel with a fitted 
cover, and simmer the meat for two hours in 
a scant cupful of boiling water. Then add two 
small sweet potatoes, peeled and washed ; add 
a scant teaspoonful of salt, cook imtil the po- 
tatoes are done, and serve on a platter. 

Be careful not to break the potatoes. 



III. 



Broth. 

Mutton with caper sauce. 

Boiled rice. 
Parsnip with cream sauce. 

Crab-apple jelly. Bread and butter. 

Celery hearts. Neufchatel cheese. 
Salted Saratoga chip crackers. 

Steamed dumpling (raised). 

Caramel sauce. 

Canned or stewed fresh cherries, strawberries, 

or peaches. 

Oranges. Tea or coffee. 

BROTH. 

Take the bone cut from a mutton shank 
weighing a pound and a half. 

Cover with a quart of cold water, and, after 
soaking an hour or so, heat gradually, and boil 
gently until meat and bone separate. 

This will take several hours. Then add two 
tablespoon fuls of tomatoes, one teaspoonful 
washed rice, half an onion, grated, and boil 

14 



Catering for ^voo. 15 

until there is a pint of broth. Strain, skim oflf 
fat, add salt to taste, and serve. A tiny pinch 
of red pepper is an addition. 

BOILED MUTTON WITH CAPER SAUCE. 

Get a shank of mutton weighing one and a 
half pounds. Trim oflf the outer skin, which 
generally is the cause of the " woolly taste ** so 
often complained of in mutton. 

Cut out the bone, dredge the meat on all 
sides with flour, dust with black pepper, and 
put it into a small deep agate pot with a close- 
fitting cover ; pour over one and a half cupfuls 
of boiling water, and when boiling begins, set 
on the back of the stove to cook gently for 
about two hours. 

When done, put the mutton on a deep platter 
and season with salt and pepper. Skim the fat 
from the gravy, which will be reduced to a cup- 
fiil, add a teaspoonftil of flour blended with a 
teaspoon ful of butter, stir well, cook a few min- 
utes, add salt to taste and one or two table- 
spoonfuls of capers, boil up, and serve either 
poured around the mutton or in a gravy 
tureen. 

If capers are not liked, a spoonful of tomato 
catsup, or an onion sliced and cooked with the 
mutton, can be substituted. If greater deli- 
cacy is preferred, do not use the gravy at all, 
but make a white sauce, called drawn butter. 



i6 Catering for ^wo. 

Mix an even tablespooufiil of flour with a 
lump of butter the size of an egg, stir to a 
cream, and slowly add a cupful of boiling 
water, stirring and cooking several minutes. 
Add salt and pepper to taste, with the capers, 
boil up, and serve. A tablespoonful of minced 
parsley may be used instead of the capers. The 
gravy may be added to the broth, or it may 
form the basis of a soup for another day. 

It is not safe to keep mutton stock more than 
twenty-four hours, except in freezing weather. 

BOILED RICK. 

Wash half a cupful of rice, drain, and pour 
it gradually into a pint of fast-boiling water, to 
which half an even teaspoonful of salt has been 
added. Stir all the time the rice is being 
poured in. Boil hard for a minute, then cover 
closely, and set upon a part of the stove where 
it will simmer for an hour or a little longer, 
covered all the time. The rice will be per- 
fectly soft and yet retain its shape, and the 
water will all have been absorbed. 

Heap on a dish, butter liberally, and dust 
with pepper. 

PARSNIP WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

Scrape and wash, but do not soak, a fine 
large parsnip. Cover it with boiling water and 
cook until tender. 



Cater fng tor (Two. 17 

Cut into slices half an inch thick, put into a 
vegetable dish, and pour over a sauce made by 
stirring to a cream one tablespoonful of butter 
and one of flour, and adding a cupful of boiling 
water, with salt and pepper to taste. This sauce 
should boil ten minutes. 

Sometimes parsnips have a core so hard that 
no amount of boiling will make it tender. 

From twenty to thirty minutes is the time 
allowed, and if the core still remains unyield- 
ing, cut it out of each slice and discard. 

Any parsnip left over may be mashed and 
served in a little cake browned in a frying-pan. 

CELERY HEARTS. 

Wash the hearts of fine crisp celery, place 
upon a celery dish, and pass with Neufchatel 
cheese and Saratoga chip crackers, salted. It 
is not necessary to bring on fresh plates for this 
little course, as the bread-and-butter plates at 
each place will answer, if one wishes to save 
steps or time. 

STEAMED DUMPUNG. 

One half yeast-cake, three quarters cup of 
water, or milk and water mixed, one heaping 
cup of flour, one half-teaspoonfiil of salt, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, one egg, heaping table- 
spoonful butter. 



i8 Catecftid tor XTvco* 

Melt the butter and yeast-cake in the warmed 
milk, beat the egg, and sift flour, salt, and 
sugar together. 

Mix all these ingredients, and set in a warm 
place for one hour. 

At the end of this time, beat the mixture, fill 
a mould one third full, and let the dough rise 
until it is nearly doubled in bulk, which will 
be in about half an hour. Set in a steamer and 
cook one hour, then cover and keep hot until 
ready to serve. 

CARAMEL SAUCE FOR STEAMED 
DUMPING. 

Stir to a cream one tablespoonfnl of butter, 
two tablespoonfuls of confectioner's sugar. 
Add a little caramel (directions to follow) and 
the yolk of an egg. Beat for several minutes. 

Add more, or all, of the caramel, and more 
sugar if desired, and, at the last, one table- 
spoonful of wine or brandy. 

This pudding will keep a week in a cool place, 
if covered, and may be warmed for another 
meal by setting on a plate, covered closely 
with a bowl, and set in the oven, or in a steamer. 

CARAMEL OR BURNT SUGAR. 

To make the caramel, put on a cool part of 
the stove, to melt, four heaping tablespoonfuls 
of granulated sugar with two tablespoonfuls 



Catering tot (Tyvo. 19 

water, and let it cook gently for half an hour, 
covered. At this time it should be bright, 
coffee-brown syrup, clear as amber. 

Be careful not to have the fire too hot, or the 
caramel will be burned and have a bitter taste. 
It must not be stirred, as this will grain the 
sugar, but the saucepan can be shifted from 
side to side, carefully, if necessary. 

Now add to the syrup six tablespoon fuls boil- 
ing water, one spoonful at a time, pouring it 
directly into the middle of the mass. Let this 
boil gently for two minutes without stirring, 
then mix with a spoon, cooking and stirring 
for another minute. 

There should be just a half-cupful of syrup, 
perfectly clear and free from lumps. 

Cool before using. 

ORANGES. 

Select fine, large oranges. Soften them a 
little by rolling gently on the kitchen table 
with the hand. 

Cut ofif an inch-thick slice from the stem end 
and replace it, so that the fruit will present a 
whole appearance. 

Serve on dessert plates with orange spoons or 
stout teaspoons. 

The choice or delicate teaspoons are apt to be 
twisted and ruined when used as orange scoops. 
The oranges may be cut in halves if preferred. 



IV. 



Tomato bisque. 

Porter-house roast. 

White turnips and potatoes mashed together. 

Baked rhubarb sauce. 

Celery salad. Cream cheese. 
Graham wafers. 

Corn-starch pudding with candied fruits. 

Tea or coflfee. 

Bread and butter served with second course. 

TOMATO BISQUE. 

Put the bone cut from a porter-house roast 
into an ^agate pot having a fitted cover, and 
soak for an hour or so in a quart of cold water. 
Then bring slowly to a boil and cook gently 
until the liquor is reduced to a cupful. Bone 
and meat should have dropped apart by this 
time (about four hours). Add half a cupful of 
tomatoes, in which is well mixed a dessert- 
spoonful of flour ; add also a teaspoonful of 
onion juice, and boil gently for half an hour. 

20 



Catering tot ^wo* 21 

Strain, skim off the fat, return to the pot, and 
add half a cupful of milk (fresh and rich) in 
which a pinch of baking-soda has been dis- 
solved. Stir well while heating, and when it 
boils up, season to taste and serve. 

ROAST BEEF. 

Order about three pounds from prime cut of 
porter-house roast. Have the bone taken out 
and sent home for soup-stock, and have also 
the long coarse end cut off and corned for 
twenty-four or thirty hours, or a little longer if 
preferred. 

Cut off the outer edge of fat, as it is dry and 
likely to be bitter. Skewer the meat firmly 
with a long clinch-nail. These nails make the 
best skewers for small roasts or cuts, as, having 
broad, flat heads, they can be removed with 
ease. 

The meat should now be browned on all 
sides. This is not necessary for large roasts, 
but for small ones ; it is the best way to make 
them retain their juices and sweetness. Either 
broil over a fierce bed of coals, or fry in a 
smoking-hot frying-pan. The meat does not 
want to be cooked, only browned well, and this 
process should take but a few minutes. Now 
dredge with flour on all sides, pepper lightly, 
and place, fat side down, on a meat-rack (a 
wire tea-stand will do) in a small dripping-pan. 



22 Catering tor JLvoo. 

Roast in a hot oven for fifteen minutes, then 
add a half-cupful of boiling water, cover the 
meat with a pan, and in thirty minutes take 
from the oven. 

Cut a deep, narrow slit, and pry apart to see 
if it is done to suit. If too rare return to the 
oven for fifteen or twenty minutes longer. 

Never allow the water in the pan to boil en- 
tirely away, or the gravy will be scorched to 
bitterness ; it should be merely browned. 

Put the roast on a platter, dust on all sides 
with salt, and garnish with celery tops. Stir 
together a teaspoonful of flour, and enough 
cold water to blend together smoothly (about 
two tablespoonfuls), add this to the sediment in 
the dripping-pan, and boil up. 

Add also a little boiling water and salt to 
taste. There should be half a cupful of gravy. 
Serve in a tureen. If the gravy is too pale, add 
a few drops of caramel. 

If there is no sediment and no grease, which 
often occurs, put a tablespoonful of butter in 
the pan, brown it slightly, and then add flour 
and water as directed. 

The meat is far more delicious when it keeps 
its juices while cooking. 

In carving, cut across the grain, and always 
add to each plate a spoonful of red juice from 
the platter ; this is called " dish gravy," and is 
the life of the meat. 

The roast may be served for another dinner by 



Catering tor Xlv^o* 23 

putting it in a moderate oven and simply heat- 
ing it through. 

For still another time, cut the meat into dice, 
always cutting across the grain, dredge with 
flour, and cover with boiling water. 

Cover closely and stew gently from two to two 
and a half hours. 

Add onions or tomatoes, or serve plain. 

Salt and pepper to taste. Chop fine any 
which may be left, and add one fourth as much 
cold baked potatoes, a few drops of onion juice, 
a little flour, butter, and milk, and you have a 
hash for breakfast. 

Either fry in cakes, or serve with dipped 
toast. When cutting meat for a stew do not 
use the fat ; if you want fat, get salt pork and 
brown it, and use this without the grease. 

If any hash is left, do not throw it away ; it 
can go into the soup-pot with other scraps of 
meat, bones, and vegetables. 

When the coarse end comes, which you have 
left with the butcher to be corned, cover it with 
a quart of boiling water, and cook gently for 
three hours. This piece is not good when hot ; 
let it get cold in the liquor it boiled in, and 
slice for luncheon or tea, or make into hash. 

Soups and corned beef may be cooked in a 
slow oven after they are started to boil on top 
of the stove, thus saving the house from the 
long-continued odors ; onions and cabbage may 
be treated in the same way. 



24 Cateting tor (Tw'o. 

WHITE TURNIPS AND POTATOES 
MASHED TOGETHER. 

Wash and peel two medium-sized potatoes 
and two turnips equal in size to the potatoes. 

Cut in halves and cook, in enough boiling 
water to cover, from twenty minutes to half an 
hour. Test with a fork, and when tender drain 
by turning into a sieve or colander. 

Return them to the pot which has been dried, 
mash thoroughly, add a dessert-spoonful of 
butter, and one third of a teaspoonful of salt. 
Stir with a fork and add more salt if needed. 
Heap in a vegetable tureen, smooth the top, put 
on a lump of butter the size of a walnut, sprinkle 
with pepper, and keep hot, uncovered in the 
oven, until wanted. If any is left, either make 
it into a little cake and fry in butter, or add to 
the soup vegetables. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Break into half-inch pieces one cupful of 
crisp, blanched celery stalks. Little tough 
strings will hold the pieces together ; strip 
these o£F. 

Make a dressing of one tablespoonfiil of olive- 
oil, a dash of cayenne pepper, one fourth of a 
teaspoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of real 
cider vinegar. 

Toss the celery about in this and serve in 



Catering for tTwo. 25 

shallow salad bowl, either on a bed of lettuce 

leaves, or garnished with watercress or parsley. 

Pass Graham wafers and any preferred cream 

cheese, Eagle, or Philadelphia, Neufchatel, etc. 

CORN-STARCH PUDDING WITH CANDIED 

FRUIT. 

Put one cup of milk on the stove, and when 
it boils add two level tablespoon fuls of corn- 
starch mixed with a pinch of salt, and two 
tablespoonfuls cold milk. Boil for a few min- 
utes, stirring constantly from the bottom and 
sides ; then put the saucepan into another con- 
taining boiling water, cover, and stir occasion- 
ally to prevent a crust forming. Cook ten 
minutes. 

Beat one egg until very light, add one tea- 
spoonful of sugar, beat a few minutes longer, 
and stir into the corn-starch. Cook one minute, 
stirring well, add one fourth of a teaspoonful of 
lemon extract, remove from the fire. 

Beat a few minutes with a wire spoon and 
pour into a mould. 

When cold, turn out on a dish, place candied 
cherries, or any other candied fruit or rich pre- 
serves, around the edge, and serve with cream 
sweetened to taste and flavored with a teaspoon- 
ful of sherry or lemon extract. 

Be exact in measuring the milk and corn-starch, 
as a little more or less will spoil the pudding. 



26 Caterina tor (Two. 

Smooth off the corn-starch with a knife-blade, 
to be sore that the spoonfuls are level ones. 

TEA. 

Put into a dry, heated earthenware teapot two 
level teaspoonfhls of tea, and pour on one pint 
of freshly boiling water. 

Cover and set on a hot part of the stove where 
it will not boil 'but simply keep hot for ten min- 
utes ; then strain into a heated china teapot for 
the table. 

Throw away the tea-leaves ; they have been 
exhausted of all that is fit for use. 



V. 



Soup. 

Roast lamb. Grape jelly. 

Escalloped potatoes. 

White turnips with cream sauce. 

Bread and butter. 

Salad. 
Chicory or lettuce. 
Cheese sandwiches. 

Orange tapioca pudding with whipped cream. 

Tea or coffee. Dates and English walnuts. 

SOUP. 

Take one and a half cupfiils of clear soup- 
stock, heat, and add the yolk of a hot hard- 
boiled egg which has been mashed to a smooth 
paste with a level teaspoon ful of flour and a 
heaping teaspoon ful of butter. 

Stir this well into the boiling stock, cook for 
a minute, add salt and pepper to taste, and 
serve. 

The white of the egg may be sliced and added 
if desired.. 

27 



28 Catering tor ITwo. 

If the soup is lumpy after the paste is added, 
strain before serving. 

If more onion flavor is liked, grate in a few 
drops. 

ClyEAR SOUP-STOCK. 

In the family where soup is considered a daily 
necessity, the housekeeper will find that a soup- 
stock kept in bulk, ready for use, will be not 
only of great convenience, but a saving of time 
and labor as well. 

The following is a delicious white stock which 
will keep a week in cold weather. 

Soak over night in two quarts of cold, water, 
one cupful of split peas. Next morning add a 
quarter of a pound of delicately browned fried 
salt pork (do not use the grease), one pound 
of stewing veal from the neck, dredged lightly 
with flour, one chopped onion, one chopped 
carrot, several sprigs of parsley, a pinch of cay- 
enne pepper, and one teaspoonful of sugar. 
Set on the back of the range to heat slowly, 
and cook for five or six hours, closely covered, 
very gently. Add salt to taste, the last half- 
hour. 

When done, pour into a soup-strainer set 
over a deep dish, and let it drain. 

Put that which remains in the sieve back into 
the pot, add a cup of hot water and boil ten or 
fifteen minutes, then drain again, throwing 



Catering tor (Two. 29 

away that which remains in the strainer. 
There should be something over a quart of 
liquor. 

When cold, carefully remove the clear layer 
of jelly on top and use it for clear soup. 

The thick part remaining in the bottom of 
the dish may be converted into a tomato soup 
b}' adding the same quantity of tomatoes which 
have been cooked and strained. 

This makes a fine thick soup for luncheon 
or for a dinner when cold sliced roasts are 
used. 

The addition of a turkey or chicken carcass 
makes this stock still more delicious. Break 
the bones into small pieces, cover with cold 
water, and boil for several hours. Strain and 
add to the stock. 

A fine large turkey carcass will yield a 
pint of jelly, and a chicken carcass half a cup- 
ful. 

Hard-boiled eggs, tomatoes, rice, noodles, or 
milk and macaroni, may be added to the clear 
stock as desired, making agreeable changes 
from day to day. 

ROAST LAMB. 

Take a chop two inches thick from the prime 
part of a fine leg of lamb. Dust it with pepper, 
dredge with flour, and put it into a hot spider to 
brown on all sides over a hot fire ; or broil it 



30 Catering for Z'wo. 

over a clear fierce fire. This seals up the juices, 
preventing their escape while roasting. 

The meat should cook only long enough to 
become brown. 

Do not puncture with a fork, but use a broad 
knife for turning. 

Time, from five to eight minutes. 

Put a meat-rack or wire tea-stand into a drip- 
ping-pan or pie-pan, lay the meat on it, and 
roast in a moderate oven from thirty to fifty 
minutes. Take it out at the expiration of thirty 
minutes and cut a small deep gash in the cen- 
tre ; pry apart, and if not cooked to suit, return 
to the oven and bake longer. 

The juice should be red, but the meat a 
brownish pink. , 

Dust with salt, and put it on a small warmed 
platter. 

Mix a rounded tablespoonful of flour with two 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, and stir this into 
the gravy in the pan ; add a half-cupfnl of boil- 
ing water, stir well, boil a few minutes, add salt 
to taste, and serve either in a gravy-boat or pour 
it over the meat on the platter. 

Serve as soon as possible, garnished with 
parsley. 

In carving, serve only the choice portions cut 
in wedges. 

Reserve the poorer part and bones for a sec- 
ond meal, which is prepared in this way : Cut 
into dice, dredge with flour, cover with boiling 



Catering for Uwo, 31 

water, and stew gently, closely covered, for an 
hour, or longer if necessary. Add any gravy 
which was left, salt to taste, take out the bones, 
add two tablespopnfuls of capers, and, after 
boiling up once, serve. If there was no gravy, 
make some by blending together one table- 
spoonful of butter and one teaspoonful of flour, 
and stir into the stew before adding the capers. 
Add also a little water if needed. 

ESCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Slice in thin slices two cupfuls of cold boiled 
or baked potatoes. Dust with flour, salt, and 
black pepper, put into an earthen baking-dish, 
distribute a dessert-spoonful of butter over the 
top in small pieces, and fill the dish with milk 
to just cover the top of the potatoes. 

Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. 
The top should be a delicate brown, and the 
potatoes a little creamy. If baked too long or 
too fast they will be hard and dry. 

Serve in the dish in which they were baked. 

TURNIPS WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

Wash and peel two medium-sized white tur- 
nips. Slice in inch pieces and cook in boiling 
water just enough to cover, with half a tea- 
spoonful of salt. When tender, drain and put 
them in a hot vegetable dish.' Make a sauce 



32 datettng tor XLwo. 

of a dessert-spoonful of butter, one of flour, and 
a pinch of salt blended together. 

Add half a cupful of hot milk, boil up, and 
pour over the turnips. 

Sprinkle with pepper and send to the table. 

SAIvAD OF CHICORY OR LETTUCE 
WITH FRENCH DRESSING. 

Wash and pull apart a crisp head of chicory 
and serve with a dressing of three scant table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar (real cider vinegar), one 
saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper, 
and six tablespoonfuls of olive-oil. 

Pass, with this, small cheese sandwiches made 
in this way : 

Grate three tablespoonfuls of cheese, add one 
teaspoonful of butter and a pinch of cayenne 
pepper; work into a paste with a knife-blade 
and spread on the end of a loaf of bread. Cut 
this off in a slice a quarter of an inch thick, re- 
move the crust and double together, cutting the 
sandwiches about three inches square. Use old 
English cheese. 

ORANGE TAPIOCA PUDDING WITH 
WHIPPED CREAM. 

Put two heaping tablespoonfuls of flake tapi- 
oca in a cloth and pound it to the size of small 
peas. Rinse in cold water and soak over night 



Catering for ITwo* 33 

in a capful of cold water. Next morning add 
an eighth of a teaspoonful of salt, three table- 
spoonfi;ls of sugar, and two thirds of a cupful of 
orange juice. 

Add more sugar if the oranges are very 
sour. 

Cook until clear (about five minutes after the 
boiling begins), stirring constantly to prevent 
scorching. 

Pour into a glass dish and, when cold, heap 
whipped cream on top. 

Serve with sponge cake, lady-fingers, or del- 
icate crackers. 

The cream is prepared in this way : 

Put into an ice-cold bowl four tablespoonfiils 
of ice-cold cream and whip with a wire spoon 
for about ten minutes, or until it is stiff, then 
add a few grains of salt, one heaping table- 
spoonful of confectioner's sugar, and either a 
pinch of grated orange rind or a quarter of a 
teaspoonful of vanilla extract; 

To get the juice from oranges, cut crosswise 
and take out with a spoon the pulp in each sec- 
tion, rejecting seeds and all tough portions. 

The cream sold from the dairies where a 
"separator" is used is easily whipped. 

It is often called "new process cream " and 
does not need to be drained afler being beaten 
stiff. If the cream will not whip readily it may 
be used plain with a little sugar and gelatine in 
this way : 



34 Oaterina tor (Two. 

SUBSTITUTE FOR WHIPPED CREAM. 

Pat one even teaspoonfiil of gelatine in three 
teaspoonfiils of cold water, soak ten minutes, 
then melt in a warm place nntil it is liquid. 

Whip for five or six minntes with a wire 
spoon in a warm room, when the gelatine will 
become sti£P froth. 

Add five tablespoonfnls of rich cream, very 
cold, one tablespooninl confectioner's sugar, a 
few grains of salt, and flavoring to suit. 

Pour immediately over the pudding, which 
must be quite cold. 



VI. 

Potato purde. 

Pried bam. Cream gravy. 

Fried hominy. 

Stewed corn or parsnip patties. 

Tomatoes stewed in butter. 

BscaUoped oysters. 

Cold slaw. Crackers. Cheese. 

Lemon meringne pie. 

Tea or cofifee. 



Alternative : Mutton pot-roast. Cherry pudding. 

PUR^E OF POTATOES. 

To a heaping cupful of mashed potatoes add 
a tablespoonful of butter rubbed with a tea- 
spoon fill of flour. Stir into this a pint of boiling 
milk (carefully, to prevent lumping), add a tea- 
spoonful of onion juice, half a teaspoonfiil of 
salt, boil up, and strain. 

Serve with minced parsley and squares of 
bread toasted brown in the oven. 

35 



36 Catetitid tor XLvoo. 

FRIED HAM. 

One slice of ham three quarters of an inch 
thick. 

Cut off the rind, put ham into a smoking-hot 
spider, and fry .each side one minute. Remove 
to a cooler part of the range and fry each side 
ten minutes ; sprinkle with a teaspoonful of 
granulated sugar after turning the last time. 

Put the meat on a platter, pour into the spider 
two thirds of a cup of milk, stir the sediment, 
boil once, and pour over the ham. 

If ham is suspected of being too salt, soak a 
few hours in the milk which should afterwards 
be used for the gravy. 

FRIED HOMINY. 

Slice cold boiled hominy, dredge with Rour, 
and fry brown in a little hot salt-pork drippings. 
Serve buttered and peppered. 

STEWED CORN. 

Grate a heaping cupful of green uncooked 
corn, add one fourth of a cupful of rich milk, 
a dust of flour, pepper and salt to taste, and a 
teaspoonfal of butter. Boil up once and take 
from the fire. If cooked corn is used, do not 
boil it, but add to the milk, etc., which must be 
boiling, stir, and serve as soon as it is hot. 

Canned corn may be used in the same way. 



Catetind (or Zwo. 37 

PARSNIP PATTIES. 

Wash and boil till very tender in salted boil- 
ing water, one large parsnip. Scrape off the 
skin and mash to a pulp while hot ; there 
should be a cupful. 

Add one heaping teaspoonful of butter, one 
of flour, and half an even teaspoonful of salt. 
Stir well, and add the yolk of an egg, and mould 
into four little flat cakes. 

If the mixture sticks, dip the hands into cold 
water, shake off the drops, and proceed. 

Dip the cakes into powdered cracker crumbs, 
and when cold fry a delicate brown in hot 
butter. 

It will take a teaspoonful of butter for each 
side. Do not cook longer than actually neces- 
sary to brown and heat through, or the egg will 
harden and the cakes lose their creaminess. 

TOMATOES STEWED IN BUTTER. 

Put a lump of butter the size of a large nut- 
meg into a saucepan, dredge with half a tea- 
spoonful of flour, and on this, carefully, so 
as not to displace the butter, pour two thirds 
of a cup of canned tomatoes or a full cup of 
sliced fresh tomatoes. 

Sprinkle with salt and pepper and a tea- 
spoonful of flour, cover, and cook gently twenty- 
five minutes. 



38 Catering tor XLwo. 

Do not stir while cooking, and use an earthen- 
ware dish that may be sent to the table. 

Batter, flour, and tomatoes should all remain 
in separate masses, blending only at the point 
of contact. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

One solid pint of oysters. 

On the bottom of an earthen- or agate-ware 
baking-dish put a layer of whole sea-foam or 
milk crackers, liberally spread with sweet 
butter. 

Cover with a layer of oysters, then one of 
buttered whole crackers, and another layer of 
oysters. 

Pour in a half-pint of milk, sweet and rich ; 
poor milk is apt to curdle. 

Add to any liquor that remains, enough rolled 
cracker to make a paste with a tablespoonful 
of melted butter, and spread over the top of the 
oysters. 

If not enough liquor remains, use milk in- 
stead. Bake in a hot oven long enough for the 
milk to reach the boiling point ; twenty minutes 
will probably suffice. 

The top should be brown. Serve in the bak- 
ing-dish. 

COLD SLAW. 
Shave the crisp inner leaves of cabbage as 



Catering tor ^wo* 39 

thinly as possible, cover with ice-water, and set 
in a cold place until wanted. 
Drain, and serve with any preferred dressing. 

LEMON MERINGUE PIE. 

Line a pie-pan of medium size with pie-crust 
and bake ; then fill with the following mixture : 

Beat the yolks of two large fresh eggs with 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar, a pinch of salt, the 
juice of a whole lemon, and the grated rind of 
half. 

Mix one even teaspoonful of corn-starch with 
a tablespoonful of melted butter and stir it 
into one cupful of boiling milk ; cook and stir 
for a minute, and when cold pour slowly over 
the egg mixture. 

Stir all together and bake in the baked crust 
about fifteen minutes. Take from the oven and 
spread over the whites of the eggs which have 
been frothed and beaten with four tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar and a tiny pinch of salt, return to 
the oven, and brown a few minutes, being care- 
ful not to burn. 

Serve cold. 

MUTTON OVEN POT-ROAST. 

Two slices, each one inch thick, from the 
middle part of the leg, either raw or cold roast. 

Trim off the outer edge of fat, put one slice 
on a meat-rack in an earthen baking-dish, dust 



40 Caterind for XLv^o. 

with floor and pepper, and dot with butter. 
hsLy the second slice on this and treat in the 
same way. Pour over half a cup of boiling 
water, cover closely, and bake in a slow oven 
two hours. Sprinkle with salt, and send to the 
table in the baking-dish, after removing the 
rack. Mint or wine sauce. 

CHERRY PUDDING (STEAMED). 

Stone a pound of cherries, put them in a deep 
quart bowl, and scatter two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and two of water over them. 

Make a crust of one cupful of flour, sifted with 
one teaspoonfnl of baking-powder and half a 
teaspoonful of salt, and chop with half a cupful 
of kidney suet. 

Mix with a scant half-cupful of ice-water, pat 
into shape, and lay on top Of the cherries. 

Steam in a steamer one hour, and serve on a 
deep platter with rich sauce. 

The whipped-egg sauce may be used. 



VII. 

Consomm^. 

Roast chicken, stuffed. 

Fried rice. 

Escalloped tomatoes. 

Parsnips browned in butter. 

Radishes or celery. 

Currant or grape jelly. 

Lettuce or celery with French dressing, 

or 
Oyster salad. Cheese. Crackers. 

Strawberry shortcake. 

Tea or coflfee. 
Nuts. Bonbons. 

CONSOMM^. 

This is a clear soup and the basis of nearly all 
soups. 

By adding different vegetables and flavorings 
one has the tomato, julienne, rice, macaroni, etc. 

Consomm^ is only another term for stock or 
bouillon : it is made of meat, water, and vege- 
tables, sometimes spices, and strained through 

41 



42 Catecin0 tor Uwo. 

a strainer set over a napkin wrung out of hot 
water. 

Take two pounds of soup-beef and a bone, 
extra. 

Soak for two hoiirs in two quarts of cold water 
to draw out the juices. Add a sliced carrot, an 
onion, a few celery stalks, and boil slowly until 
the meat is in shreds. There should be one 
quart of liquor after straining. Season and set 
away to get cold, when skim off any fat there 
may be on top. 

Heat one cupful of this for two portions, and 
serve with small crackers. 

A few sprigs of parsley or a slice of lemon 
or a poached egg in each portion makes a 
change. 

The meat is now useless ; if soup-meat is 
wanted for food it is better to buy what is called 
a ** fresh plate piece," two pounds of which will 
make a quart of soup. Wipe off the meat with 
a cloth, pour on a quart of boiling water, bring 
to a quick boil for a few minutes, then merely 
simmer on a cool part of the stove, covered, for 
four hours, or until the bones drop out. Put the 
meat on a platter, make a gravy of one cupful 
of the liquor mixed with a teaspoonful of flour, 
with pepper and salt, and pour over. 

Add vegetables and a cupful of water to the 
liquor, cook and strain, and set away for next 
day^s soup. 

The vegetables may be served with the meat. 



Catering tot Zvoo. 43 

ROAST CHICKEN. 

Select a fine fat yellow fowl weighing four 
or five pounds (a thin white-skinned chicken is 
apt to be tasteless and tough), and ask the 
butcher to draw it. Cut off the legs, wings, and 
neck, and put away for a fricassee. 

Rinse the body of the chicken quickly in cold 
water inside and out, wipe dry, and fill with the 
following stuffing : 

Put a quart of stale bread-crumbs into a vessel 
with a cover, pour in a cup of cold water, drain, 
and steam, covered, in a hot oven for half an 
hour. 

Then add a quarter of a teaspoonful of black 
pepper, half a teaspoonful of salt, two heaping 
teaspoon fuls of thyme, and one of chopped 
onion. Work this into a paste with a table- 
spoonful of butter. Add a few spoonfuls more 
of water if needed. 

Fill the chicken and sew up with coarse darn- 
ing-cotton. Dredge with flour and black pep- 
per, place upon a meat-rack in a deep saucepan 
or pot with a close-fitting cover, add half a cup 
of boiling water, and bake from two to four hours 
in a moderate oven. 

The time will depend on the toughness of the 
fowl. Leave off the cover the last half-hour, 
and at this time sprinkle with salt. Meanwhile 
cook the heart, liver, and gizzard half an hour 
in a cupful of boiling water. 



44 Catetind tot ^voo. 

Take out the gizzard and put it with the parts 
reserved for the fricassee. 

Chop heart and liver, mix with them a table- 
spoonful of flour and half a teaspoonful of salt, 
stir into the water they boiled in, cook a few 
minutes, and add any gravy there may be in the 
roasting-pot. 

For the fricassee wipe the pieces (legs, wings, 
etc.) with a damp cloth, dredge with flour and 
black pepper, place in a stew-pan, pour on one 
and a half cups of boiling water, cover closely, 
and cook very gently from one to four hours, or 
until tender. 

When done, blend a tablespoonful of flour 
with a lump of butter the size of an eggy add 
half a cupful of boiling water, the gizzard 
chopped very fine, salt to taste, cook with the 
chicken, and serve on a deep platter. 

If the chicken is very fat, the butter will not 
be needed. 

FRIED RICE. 

Pack into a square pan two cupfuls of well- 
boiled rice. When cold, cut into inch-thick 
slices, dredge with flour, and fry brown in 
a spoonful of hot butter or salt-pork drip- 
pings. 

Serve with a lump of butter on each piece, 
and dust with black pepper. 



Catetind tor ^wo. 45 

ESCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Use either a small baking-dish or individual 
moulds (cups will do). Skin and slice two fine 
ripe tomatoes, and lay them in a dish with al- 
ternate layers of fine cracker-crumbs, pepper, 
salt, and bits of butter. A teaspoonful of butter 
for each tomato is about right. 

Sprinkle with cracker-crumbs and bake half 
an hour in a hot oven. Serve in the baking- 
dish. Canned tomatoes may be used, but are 
not so good as fresh ones. 

BUTTERED PARSNIPS. 

Boil in salted water until tender one fine large 
parsnip. 

Scrape and cut in halves lengthwise. 

Dredge with a little salt, flour, and pepper, 
and fry brown in a spoonful of butter. 

OYSTER SAIvAD. 

Dip six freshly opened medium-sized oysters 
in cracker-crumbs, and fry a delicate brown in 
a spoonful of hot sweet butter. 

Lay on a plate to get cold, then cut them into 
half-inch pieces and mix with six tablespoonfuls 
of finely chopped crisp white celery. Put this 
in the salad bowl, first rubbing the inside of 
the bowl with a slice of raw onion, and set 
where it will get very cold. 



46 Catering tor tTwo. 

Just before serving make the dressing. 

Whip to a stiflF froth a fourth of a cupful of 
sour cream. Beat the yolk of one egg with a 
pinch each of salt, mustard, cayenne, and 
sugar ; add one spoonful of olive-oil and then 
the whipped cream. Add more salt if neces- 
sary, and a spoonful of either lemon juice or 
cider vinegar ; the size of the spoonfuls should 
be governed by the icidity of the cream. 

Pour over the salad and serve. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Sift together half a cupful of flour, half a 
rounded teaspoonful of baking-powder, and a 
large pinch of salt. Cut into this a lump of 
table butter the size of half an egg^ and add 
one fourth of a cup of milk. Spread this paste 
on a jelly-cake pan and bake fifteen or twenty 
minutes in a hot oven, or bake in muffin rings. 
Spread, when done, liberally with butter, add 
the fruit, and serve either hot or cold. 

Prepare the berries in the following way : 

An hour before dinner pick over and rinse 
quickly two cupfuls of fine juicy strawberries, 
and cover with a cupful of sugar ; set in a cool 
place until wanted. Just before the shortcake 
goes to the table, spread over it one cupful of 
mashed berries, and put on top the berries 
which have been standing in sugar. 

Serve with cream, or make a sauce as follows : 



Catering for Uwo* 47 

Boil a cupiiil of milk, pour it upon the yolk of 
an egg beaten with one teaspoonful of sugar, add 
a few grains of salt, and set over a boiling tea- 
kettle about two minutes, stirring constantly. 

The white of the egg may be frothed and 
added if liked. Serve hot or cold. 

Canned cherries or peaches may take the 
place of the strawberries. 



vin. 

Broth with lemon. 

Stuffed leg of lamb. 

Potatoes with cream sauce. 

Green peas. Cape May omelette. 

Bread and butter. Grape jell)'. 

Olives. 

Salad of lettuce or cabbage with a boiled 

dressing. 
Saltine crackers. Cheese. 

Loaf cake with cut fruit. 
Berries or canned fruit. 

Tea or coffee. Nuts and cream candy. 

BROTH. 

Dredge with flour and cover with cold water 
the bone taken from a leg of lamb. Add one 
clove, an inch piece of stick cinnamon, a few 
inches of carrot, parsnip, and one onion. 

Heat slowly and boil gently until the bones 
drop apart, which will be at the end of several 
hours ; there should be a generous pint of broth 
after straining and skimming off the fat. 

48 



Catering tot XTwo. 49 

Add a few sprigs of parsley, salt and pepper, 
return to the pot, boil up, and serve with a thin 
slice of lemon in each portion. 

If a larger amount of broth is wanted, add a 
part of the extreme lower end of the leg to the 
bone when putting on to cook ; this also should 
be dredged with flour. One pound of meat will 
yield a pint of rich broth. 

ROAST LAMB. 

Order a small leg of lamb, weighing about 
five pounds, boned and trimmed. From the 
large end have two slices cut for broiling, and 
put on ice for next day's breakfast. Have two 
thirds of the small end cut off also, and reserved 
for a stew ; the bone is for soup. 

The portion left is the prime part to be used 
for the roast. Pour a cupful of boiling water 
over a pint of stale bread-crumbs, and pour off 
immediately ; cover the bread closely, and set 
in a warm place to steam for about twenty-five 
minutes. 

Add a piece of butter the size of half an eggy 
a salt-spoon of salt, the same of pepper, and 
mix ; a little more water may be needed to make 
the stuffing pliable. 

Broil the meat on every side over a fierce fire, 
or fry in a smoking-hot frying-pan just long 
enough to seal up the juices ; place it on a small 
rack in a dripping-pan, and press the stuffing 



50 Catering tor ^wo. 

into the cavity made by the removal of the bone. 
Cover with a piece of the sheet of fat accom- 
panying the lamb, dredge with flour, pour into 
the pan a cup of boiling water, and roast in a 
hot oven for half an hour. 

If the rack is not high enough to admit of a 
cup of water, put in less, as the water must not 
touch the meat. 

When done, dredge liberally with salt and 
pepper, and serve on a heated platter. 

Pour off the grease from the gravy in the pan, 
add a pinch of salt, and a teaspoonful of flour 
blended with a little cold water, boil up, and 
serve in a gravy-boat. 

If preferred, a mint sauce may take the place 
of the gravy, or, if mint is not at hand, a wine 
sauce. 

When either of these sweet sauces are used, 
omit the grape jelly. 

Next day the remains of the lamb may be 
sliced and made into cutlets. Dip them first 
into beaten egg^ and then in bread-crumbs or 
cracker dust, and fry quickly in hot butter. 

Fry just long enough to heat thoroughly, or 
the meat will be tough and fit only for the stew- 
pot. 

For another meal, cut that which remains into 
dice, cover with boiling water, and stew one 
hour ; season with salt, and add flour and capers, 
or serve with dumplings. 

Iamb's kidneys may be added, also a table- 



i 



Catering tor (Two. 51 

spoonful of fried salt pork, or, in time of green 
peas, a cupful added to the gravy is a great 
improvement. 

For mint sauce, pour half a cupful of boil- 
ing water on a tablespoonful of green mint 
(chopped). Add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
boil up, and serve with or without a spoonful of 
vinegar. For wine sauce, melt one teaspoonful 
of grape jelly over a teakettle, add one table- 
spoonful of sherry, and serve hot. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Wash, peel, and cut in half-inch slices, two 
medium-sized potatoes, and rinse in cold water. 
Cover with boiling water, and cook gently, so as 
not to break, until a fork will pierce them easily. 
Then pour off the water, uncover for an instant, 
replace the lid, and holding it securely shake 
the pot violently up and down once. Now 
partly remove the cover, and set the pot on the 
stove for a few minutes to allow the potatoes to 
dry and become flaky. Then put them in a hot 
vegetable dish, sprinkle with salt, and pour over 
a sauce made as follows : Stir a heaping table- 
spoonful of butter to a cream, add a rounded 
dessert-spoonful of flour, a fourth of a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, beat well, and add a cupful of boiling 
milk. Boil gently, about ten minutes, adding 
a tablespoonful of finely minced parsley, and a 
dust of pepper. Serve at once. 



52 Catering tor ^wo. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Peas will take from twenty to forty minutes 
to cook, according to size and age. 

Boil in two cups of boiling water, with an even 
teaspoonful of salt, three cups of peas, which 
are fresh and crisp. 

Do not wash them at all, and see that they are 
not shelled long before using. 

If the water cooks away, add more from the 
boiling teakettle, just enough to keep them 
covered. 

When done, add pepper, dredge in a little 
flour, and stir in a tablespoonful of butter. 
Serve in sauce-plates. 

If preferred, they may be boiled down very 
dry, and poured around the lamb ; in which case 
a portion should be served with each plate. 

CAPE MAY OMEI.ETTE. 

Pour one third of a cup of cold milk on half a 
cup of stale bread-crumbs ; if the crumbs are 
very dry, a little more milk may be required. 

Beat well one egg with half an even tea- 
spoonful of salt, a dust of pepper, and a table- 
spoonful of butter, melted. Add half a cup of 
green com, grated, or the same amount of 
canned com, and mix with the crumbs and 
milk. 

Bake in a buttered earthen dish in a hot oven. 



Catetitid for Zvoo. 53 

just long enongh to set the egg and brown the 
top, from ten to fifteen minutes. 

Be careful about the quantity of milk, as too 
much will make the omelette thin, while it will 
be stiff if too little is used. 

To be right, it should be about as stiff as light 
mashed potatoes. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

Shave very fine half a pint of cabbage ; only 
the tender inner parts should be used. 

Make a dressing of the yolk of one egg beaten 
with one third of a teaspoonful of flour, the 
same of salt, and a pinch of sugar, and a dust 
of cayenne pepper. 

Add two tablespoonfuls of boiling water and 
cook and stir over a boiling teakettle until 
thick ; then add a tablespoonful of cider 
vinegar, a tablespoonful of cream or milk, and 
a teaspoonful of butter. 

Beat until cold and mix with the cabbage, or 
pour over lettuce leaves and serve in a salad 
bowl. Oil may be used instead of butter, if 
preferred. 

LOAF CAKE. 

Haifa cupful of butter, one cupful granulated 
sugar, three eggs, half a cupful of lukewarm 
water, one and a half cupfuls flour, one and a 



54 Cateting tot tTwo. 

half teaspoonfiils baking-powder, one teaspoou- 
ful flavoring, half a scant teaspoonful salt. 

Beat the butter to a cream with the hand, 
add the sugar, and mix until it is a creamy 
mass. 

Add the yolks of the eggs, beating (still with 
the hand) for fully five minutes, then add by 
degrees the water. Beat from five to ten 
minutes and put in the flavoring. Measure the 
flour carefully, lifting it lightly in the cup, add 
the baking-powder and salt, and sifl four times. 

Beat the flour into the egg mixture with a 
spoon, putting it in by degrees, about a third at 
a time. 

Beat thoroughly for five minutes, then grease 
the baking-pan ; then beat the cake again for a 
few minutes ; this alternate beating and resting 
improves it very much. 

Whisk the whites of the eggs, which have 
been standing in a cool place, and, as soon as 
they are stiflF, beat up the cake batter once more 
and fold or cut them in lightly. The cake should 
only be beaten enough at this stage to mix in 
the whites of the eggs, as long beating after they 
are in always tends to make cake tough. 

Pour into a paper-lined tin (fill a little over half 
full), smooth the top evenly, and bake in a 
moderate oven from fifty to sixty minutes. In 
baking see that the fire is right before adding 
flour to the cake, and after it goes into the 
oven do not slam doors nor opeh windows to 



Catering rot xi^u'o. 55 

make a draught across the stove. A jar or 
draught will often cause cakes to fall. 

When looking into the oven, open the door 
only part way (to prevent the escape of hot air), 
and always open and close it gently. 

When the cake is done it will be a beautiful 
golden brown, slightly raised in the centre, with 
the edges fallen away from the sides of the pan. 

This cake will keep for a week in a closely 
covered stone jar and is almost equal to pound 
cake in closeness and richness. 

Do not use milk instead of water, and be 
exact in measuring everything. The butter 
should be pressed closely into the cup in order 
to get the full quantity. 

This same batter may be used for layer cake. 
Do not fill the pans quite full; and smooth 
the top of each with a knife-blade, or the cakes 
will not be even when baked. 

Have a quick oven and ttum the cakes, when 
done, upon a clean cloth, with the inverted 
pans over them so they will keep moist until 
ready for the filling, which may be either 
chocolate, jelly, or custard. 

Layer-cake batter needs but little beating 
after the flour is added. 



( '■■ 






IX. 



Macaroni soup. 

Chicken browned in butter ; 
Giblet gravy. Currant jelly . 

Hashed potatoes with parsley. 

Lima beans. 

Bread and butter. Olives. 

Lettuce ; French dressing. 
Philadelphia cream cheese. 
Educator crackers. 

Jelly with preserved pineapple and whipped 

cream. 
Lady-fingers or sponge cake. 

Tea or coffee. Nut cream candy. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

Use stock, but if none is at hand, then, sev- 
eral hours before dinner, put into an earthen 
pot half a pound of raw chopped soup beef, a 
small bone, and a generous half-pint of cold 
water. Set on a cool part of the range for three 
hours where it will heat gradually ; then bring 

56 



Catering tor CTvco. 57 

to a boil and cook gently for half an hour with 
one chopped onion, two inches of carrot, and a 
sprig of parsley. 

Strain through a soup-strainer, and again 
through a piece of old table-linen wet in cold 
water, if a clear soup is desired. If the soup 
has boiled away, add enough boiling water to 
make a generous half-pint and set away in a cold 
place. 

Half an hour before it is wanted, break into 
a cup of boiling water a heaping tablespoonful 
of macaroni and cook until tender. Remove 
the cake of fat from the soup, add one third of 
a teaspoonful of salt, a dust of pepper, a pinch 
of sugar, and one clove, heat, and pour over the 
macaroni just before serving. There should be 
a cupful and a half of soup. 

The coarse end of porter-house steak and its 
bone can be used for this soup, and also the 
ends from lamb chops. 

CHICKEN BROWNED IN BUTTER; 
GIBLET GRAVY. 

Cut wings and legs from a fine fat chicken 
weighing four or five pounds. 

Singe over a flame to burn off hairs and the 
little feathers which cannot be plucked out. 

Rinse quickly in cold water, wipe dry, and 
put into a saucepan or frying-pan in which a 
lump of butter the size of an egg is heating. 



58 Catering tot Zy»o. 

The bottom of the pan should be broad enough 
to admit of all the pieces of chicken being 
spread upon it at one time. 

Dust each piece with a little flour and pepper 
and fry delicately upon both sides for a few 
minutes: then cover the saucepan closely, set 
on a cool part of the stove where it will only 
simmer very gently, and cook from half an 
hour to two hours, according to the age of the 
fowl. 

Turn each piece occasionally and keep con- 
stant watch to see that the heat is not too great, 
as burning would impart bitterness to the gravy. 

The chicken when dbne should be a rich 
golden brown and so tender tha^ the meat can 
easily be twisted apart with a fork. 

Place on a hot platter and garnish either with 
parsley or watercress. 

Do not season with salt until ready to go to 
the table. 

Stir into the saucepan one teaspoonful of flour, 
one fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, and half a 
cup of boiling water. 

Chop the heart and half of the liver, and add 
this with a little pepper. Cook gently for 
fifteen minutes and serve in a small gravy- 
boat 

If the butter in the pan should have become 
scorched, do not use it for the gravy, but take a 
fresh supply. 

The body of the chicken can be roasted 



Catering tor ^wo. 59 

another day, using the gizzard and the other 
half of the liver for gravy. 

The grease from salt pork may be used instead 
of butter, and if the chicken is known to be 
old it may be steamed for an hour, to make it 
tender, before frying. 

HASHED POTATOES WITH MINCED 

PARSLEY. 

Stir together in a small frying-pan one even 
dessert-spoonful of flour, one teaspoonful of 
butter, one fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, and, 
when hot, add a third of a cup of rich milk ; 
stir constantly and cook for a minute, then add 
two even cupfuls of thinly sliced, cold, baked or 
boiled potatoes. Stir lightly so that every piece 
may be coated with the sauce, add a tablespoon- 
ful of minced parsley, and do not stir again. 
Cover and cook gently a few minutes, then dust 
with pepper and serve. 

LIMA BEANS (DRIED.) 

Soak half a cupful of dried lima beans for 
twenty-four hours in one pint of cold water. 
Rinse thoroughly, and cook gently for two 
hours in a cup of cold water: if cooked fast 
they will break and become mushy. 

When tender, add a lump of butter the size of 
an English walnut, a quarter of a teaspoonful 



6o Cateting tot tlvQO. 

of salt, and a sprinkle of pepper. If too dry, 
add one or two spoonfuls of milk just before 
serving. 

LETTUCE; FRENCH DRESSING. 

Wash with care, in cold water, the tender 
inner leaves of a crisp head of lettuce. 

Shake out the water, put in a salad bowl, and 
serve with the following dressing : Mix one 
tablespoonful of real cider vinegar with three 
tablespoonfuls of olive-oil, a generous pinch of 
salt, a tiny one of red pepper, and a dust of black 
pepper. Toss the leaves about in this, being 
careful that each is well coated. 

Pass crackers and cheese with this course. 

JELLY WITH PRESERVED PINEAPPLE 
AND WHIPPED CREAM. 

Soak four even teaspoonfuls of gelatine in 
two tablespoonfuls of cold water for ten minutes. 
Add the juice of half a lemon, granulated sugar 
to taste, one cup of boiling water, and four table- 
spoonfuls of juice from some canned pineapples. 

Cut into dice two slices of the pineapple and 
cook gently for fifteen minutes with two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, being careful not to let it 
burn. 

Spread this on the bottom of a glass dish, 
and pour the gelatine mixture over it. 

When ice-cold and hard, heap on top four 



Catetlng tot (Two. 6i 

tablespoonfiils of cream, whicli have been 
whipped with one teaspoonful of confectioner's 
sugar. 

In warm weather use three tablespoonfuls 
less water in the jelly. 



X. 



Pur^e of green peas. 

Veal pot-pie (raised crust). 

Cauliflower fritters. 

Baked tomatoes. 

Bread and butter. Olives. 

Green com on the cob. 

Lemon pudding. 

Tea or coffee. Chocolate creams. 

PURfiE OF GREEN PEAS. 

Barely cover with boiling water one cup- 
ful of fresh green peas, adding more from the 
boiling teakettle as the peas become dry. 

When tender, press through a coarse sieve or 
mash very fine, add two scant cupfuls of boil- 
ing milk, and to this a teaspoonful of .butter 
blended with one of flour. Boil a few minutes, 
add salt to taste, a dust of pepper, strain if 
lumpy, and serve with small squares of bread 
browned in the oven. 

62 



Catering toe (Two. 63 

VEAL POT-PIE. (YEAST CRUST.) 

Put one pound of stewing veal lightly 
dredged with flour into one pint of boiling 
water. Add two tablespoonfols of chopped salt 
pork fried a rich brown (not the grease) and a 
piece of red pepper pod the size of a thumb- 
nail or a pinch of cayenne. Cover the pot and 
stew gently for three hours, then add a dessert- 
spoonful of flour and an even teaspoonful of 
salt to half a cupful of melted butter, stir well, 
and mix with the veal. 

Boil a few minutes, add a half-cup of boiling 
water, stir and boil up, then set away until next 
day in a very cold place. 

Veal is always improved by standing a day 
in its juices, being sweeter and firmer. 

Six hours before dinner mix the sponge for 
the crust. 

Take a half-teaspoonfiil of salt, the same 
of sugar, a half-cup of warm water, a half- 
teaspoonful of butter, and one fourth of a 
yeast-cake. Melt and mix all together and 
stir in one cupful of flour sifted after measur- 
ing. 

Let it rise to double its bulk in a temperature 
of about* ninety degrees : this will take about 
three hours. Make into biscuits by rolling 
small pieces between the floured palms, and 
set to rise again in the same temperature, 
always keeping the vessel closely covered. 



64 Catetittd tor Zwo. 

At the end of this time the rolls should have 
become three times the original size and are 
now ready for the steamer : steam one hour : 
break apart, place on a deep platter, and 
pour the stew (which has been getting hot 
but not cookiQg for the past half-hour) over 
them. 

If more gravy is needed, melt and brown 
slightly one tablespoonful of butter, add a 
teaspoon ful of flour, a little salt and pepper, 
and half a cup of boiling water. Lamb may be 
used instead of veal, and should be cooked in 
the same way. 

Get stewing lamb, and remove the fat, if 
there is any, before cooking. 

Buy large, old veal. 

CAULIFLOWER FRITTERS. 

Boil for twenty minutes in boiling salted 
water three cupfuls of cauliflower. 

Take from the fire, mash fine with a fork, 
add a tablespoonful of butter, and form into 
little flat cakes. When cold, dip them in a 
batter made of beaten egg, a pinch of salt, a 
tablespoonful of milk, and a teaspoonfiil of 
flour. 

Fry to a light brown in a spoonful of hot 
butter, or, if preferred, in salt-pork drippings. 
Cook the fritters the last thing, as they should 
be served at once. 



Catering Tot ^wo 65 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Skin ripe tomatoes by pouring boiling water 
over them to cover. 

Place them in an earthenware dish, put on 
each tomato a walnut of butter, a large pinch 
of salt, and a dust of pepper, and dredge with 
flour. Cover the dish closely and bake in a 
moderately hot oven from one and a half to 
two hours or longer, according to the size and 
ripeness of the tomatoes. 

Remove the cover and bake fifteen minutes 
to half an hour longer. If there is any juice at 
this time, dip it out of the dish, and add to it 
butter, flour, and salt enough to make a rich 
sauce ; pour this over the tomatoes and serve 
hot in the baking-dish. 

If there is no juice (which will be the case if 
the tomatoes are not particularly fine and ripe, 
or if they have cooked in an oven that is too 
hot or too cool), make a sauce of butter and 
flour stirred smooth with a little boiling water 
added. 

Each tomato of medium size will require 
half a teaspoonful of butter, the same of flour, 
and two dessert-spoonfuls of boiling water, with 
a pinch each of salt and pepper. 

The tomatoes when done should be soft and 
juicy but not broken. They may be browned 
by sprinkling with bread crumbs and holding 
over them a hot stove-lid. 



66 Catetitid tot Zwo 

GREEN CORN ON THE COB. 

Strip the husks and silk from two ears of 
freshly pulled com. 

The sooner corn is eaten after being gathered, 
the sweeter it is. 

Steam in a steamer for twenty minutes, or 
boil ten minutes. 

In either case serve soon, each ear wrapped 
in a small napkin. 

To roast, lay on a gridiron over a clear but 
not fierce fire, turning over a little at a time as 
the surface becomes browned : time about 
twenty-five minutes. Wrap in a napkin and eat 
with butter, salt, and pepper the same as boiled 
com. The napkin is used to protect the fingers 
from the heat. Serve as a separate course. 

lyEMON PUDDING (MERINGUE). 

Heat two thirds of a cup of rich milk, add an 
even tablespoonful of sugar, and the same of 
melted butter. Pour this over a cupful of bread 
crumbs, two days old, freed from crust, and, 
without stirring, set it on the stove to keep hot, 
but not to cook, while the yolk of an egg is be- 
ing beaten with an even tablespoonful of sugar, 
the grated rind of a quarter of a lemon, and the 
juice of a fourth of it. 

Add a pinch of salt, stir, and then pour in 
one third of a cupful of cold milk. 



Catcrtiid tot ^wo 67 

Pour this over the bread, and bake in a hot 
oven a few minutes. 

Whip the white of the egg to a stiff froth, add 
the juice from one fourth of the lemon with one 
third of a cupftil of sugar, spread over the hot 
pudding, and brown in the oven from eight to 
ten minutes. 

Serve cold the day it is made. 

The dish must be a third larger than the pud- 
ding to prevent the meringue from overflowing. 



BAKED MEAT PIE. 

The preceding dinner may be varied by serv- 
ing a meat pie instead of the veal pot-pie, in 
which case a strawberry jelly may take the 
place of the lemon meringue. 

For the meat pie, use any meat from roast or 
poultry, and if it is not perfectly tender dredge 
it (one cupful) with flour, barely cover with boil- 
ing water, and simmer from one to three hours, 
or fry it in a closely covered saucepan, just al- 
lowing it to simmer (using a thin slice of fat 
salt pork in the bottom of the pan to furnish 
fat) for the same length of time. 

Put the meat, cut into dice, in a deep baking- 
dish, fill up with gravy, cover with the follow- 
ing crust, and bake half an hour in a hot 
oven. 

Take half a cupful of flour, sift it with half a 



68 Catetitid tor TTwo. 

teaspoonfnl of baking-x>owder, a salt-spoonful 
of salt, and chop with it a lump of suet the size 
of a hen's egg. 

Mix in four tablespoonfhls of ice-cold water, 
roll out very lightly, place lightly on top of the 
meat, and get it into the oven as quickly as 
possible. 

If no gravy remained from the roast, make 
some after directions previously given. 

STRAWBERRY JEIyLY. 

Soak for half an hour three tablespoonfuls of 
gelatine in one cup of cold water, with the juice 
of a quarter of a lemon. Stem and mash a quart 
box of juicy strawberries and strain through a 
coarse cloth wrung out of cold water : squeeze 
out all the juice possible. Add five tablespoon- 
fuls of confectioner's sugar, a few grains of salt, 
and set the gelatine on the stove, stirring until 
it is all melted. 

Then add the strawberry juice and taste to see 
if more sugar or lemon is needed. 

When cold, but before it stiffens, whip with 
an egg-beater until nothing is visible but a 
froth : this will take from ten minutes to half 
an hour. Now add the frothed white of an eggy 
whip a few minutes longer, and set on ice for 
several hours in the dish in which it is to be 
served. 



. ^'JH 



Catecind for XLv^o. 69 

Whipped cream is an addition to this jelly 
but it is very nice without. 

To be right, one third should be a rose col- 
ored foam, resting upon a clear rose jelly. 

Currant juice may be used instead of lemon. 



•;1 



XI. 

split-pea soup. 

Pot roast, top sirloin. 

Mashed potatoes. 

Tomatoes on toast. 

Watercress. Bread and butter. 

Tapioca pudding. 
Hard sauce. 

Tea or coflFee. 
Dates. English walnuts. 



Serve cresses with the meat, or, if preferred, 
in a separate course with crackers and cheese. 

SPI.IT-PEA SOUP. 

Wash half a cupful of split peas and soak 
them over night in a quart of cold water. 

About noon put them, with the water they 
have soaked in, on a cool part of the stove, add 
two tablespoon fuls of chopped salt pork, fried 
brown (do not use the grease), a half-cupful of 
tomatoes, a few sprigs of parsely and celery 

70 



jo^tma^tm^t^am^t 



Catering tor tTwo. 71 

stalks, and one onion, one small turnip, and a 
medium-sized carrot chopped fine. 

Heat gradually and cook slowly until the 
peas are a mush, which will take several hours. 
Then add one half of the gravy from the pot 
roast, hoil a few minutes, and strain through a 
soup-strainer. There should be a quart of soup. 
If the liquor has boiled away, add boiling water 
to the pot, cook a little longer, and strain. Salt 
and pepper to taste and serve with small oyster- 
crackers. 

This quantity is enough for two meals. That 
which is left can be warmed up with a few 
spoonfuls of milk to thin it. Heat milk and 
soup in separate vessels and put together after 
taking from the fire. Add a little salt and some 
minced parsley. 

POT-ROAST. 
Top Sirloin (Two Pounds). 

Trim off all the dried outer edges and brown 
on all sides in a hot spider over a hot fire to 
seal up the juices. 

Dredge plentifully with flour and place the 
meat on a layer of thin slices of salt pork, or 
suet if preferred. Use an agate-ware pot and 
keep the meat closely covered so that the steam 
will not escape. 

Set on a hot part of the stove until the fat 



72 Catecittd tor Xlxoo. 

begins to fry vigorously, then place where it 
will only simmer. 

Cook for two hours and a half, being careful 
that it does not bum. Suet especially is most 
disagreeable when burned, making the gravy 
quite unfit for use. 

Be sure that the salt pork is fresh and sweet, 
as otherwise the dish will be ruined. 

When done, take out the meat, dust it liber- 
ally with salt and a little pepper, and put it on 
a dish which can be covered, so that it will keep 
moist until ready to serve. 

After taking out the pork, skim the fat from 
the gravy and put half of it in the soup as di- 
rected. Add -to the remaining half a teaspoon- 
ful of flour mixed with a spoonful of cold water 
and a half-cupful of boiling water, salt to taste, 
and boil five minutes. If lumpy, strain through 
a wire strainer. 

In serving the roast be sure to cut across the 
grain, and always observe the same rule when 
cutting hieat for stews or pies, or to serve cold, 
sliced. 

A delicious pie may be made from the re- 
mains of this roast for the following day. Cut 
up a heaping cupful of the meat into dice and 
put it into a small, deep pie-dish. Make a 
gravy of one heaping tablespoonful of butter, 
a tablespoonful of flour, half a teaspoonful of 
salt, pepper, and a cupful of boiling water. 
(Brown the butter before adding the other 



r 



Catering tor Zvoo. 73 

ingredients.) Pour this gravy over the tneat, 
place on top a crust which has been previously 
baked, and set in the oven for fifteen or twenty 
minutes. Make the crust of one half cup of 
flour sifted with one fourth of a teaspoonful of 
salt, one fourth of a cup of lard (solid and cold), 
and two tablespoonfuls of ice-water. Roll out 
an eighth of an inch thick, spread on half a 
teaspopnftil of butter, dust with flour, fold up 
into a ball and roll out again to the size and 
shape of the baking-dish, slash it once or twice, 
and bake in a hot oven. Handle the dough as 
little and as lightly as possible ; have the hands 
cool and work quickly. The crust may be 
baked at any time so as to be in readiness when 
wanted. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Wash, peel, and cook in enough boiling water 
to cover, three medium-sized potatoes. 

When done a fork will pierce to the heart 
without resistance. Potatoes boil more quickly 
if cut in halves, but if small they do not need 
to be cut ; try to have them of uniform size. 

Drain oflF the water, take the lid off for a 
moment, slip it back, and, holding the pot 
and lid firmly together, shake up and down 
twice violently. This forces the steam to escape 
and makes the potatoes mealy, if it is possible 
for them to be so. Now pass through the potato 



74 Catering tor TTwo. 

press or mash thoroughly, until every lump dis- 
appears. 

Add one third of a teaspoonful of salt, one 
teaspoonful of butter, and three tablespoonfuls 
of boiling milk. 

Whip with a fork for two minutes and if not 
creamy enough add another spoonful of hot 
milk. 

If too much milk is used the potatoes will be 
thin, if too little, they will not be creamy. 

If possible use cream instead of milk. 

Heap in a vegetable dish, put on top a lump 
of butter the size of a walnut, dust with pepper, 
and set in the oven until wanted for the table. 

TOMATOES ON TOAST. 

Skin two solid, ripe tomatoes, slice, dredge 
with flour, salt and pepper, and fry slowly in a 
teaspoonful of hot butter ; they should be done 
in about ten minutes. Lift out carefully with 
a cake-turner and lay upon a thin slice of deli- 
cately toasted bread which has been freed from 
crust. 

Add to the gravy in the pan an even table- 
spoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of flour, and 
two spoonfuls of milk or cream ; cook a few 
minutes, salt and pepper lightly, pour over the 
tomatoes and toast, and serve. 

If canned tomatoes are used, put a tablespoon- 
fill of butter in small lumps in the bottom of a 



5«— ^ *!■ '■« ? J 1j^ .t- -i V ■!  ar*rfMi<^^<^MM— 



J 



Catering tot ITwo. 75 

saucepan, dredge lightly with flour, and pour 
over a scant cupful of canned tomatoes. 

Add one fourth of a teaspoon ful of salt, a 
dust of pepper and another sprinkling of flour, 
cover, and stew gently half an hour or longer 
without stirring. Pour over toast, and serve. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING (BAKED). 

Soak over night one even gill of flake tapioca 
in one cupful of cold water. An hour before 
dimscr ardd half a cupful of cold milk, and heat 
gradually. 

Beat up one egg with one tablespoonful of 
sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt, the grated rind 
of one third of a lemon, and pour upon this a 
half-cupful of boiling milk, stir well, and add 
to the tapioca. 

Bake in a moderate oven about fifteen min- 
utes ; long cooking makes tapioca tough. 

Serve hot with a sauce made of one scant 
cupful of confectioner^s sugar, stirred with a 
lump of butter the size of a small egg and one 
teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

The longer and harder this sauce is beaten 
the creamier it will be. 

A gill measures one half of a cup. Be care- 
ful to have the measure exact, as too much 
tapioca will make the pudding stiff*, and too 
much milk and water will make it insipid. 



XII. 

Celery soup. 

Loin of lamb chops (broiled). 

Baked potatoes. 

Lemon marmalade. 

Salted almonds. 

Pot-cheese. Saltine crackers. 

Watercress or celery. 

Fruit dumplings (baked). 
Liquid and hard sauce. 

Tea or coffee. 

Mixed nuts and raisins. 

Any preferred table water. 

Claret or cider. 

CELERY SOUP. 

This soup is made from white stock of mut- 
ton, veal, or chicken. The long stringy ends 
from loin of lamb or mutton chops can be 
used to advantage here, and four chops with 
the bones will generally yield sufficient for two 
people. 

76 



Catering tor Cwo* 77 

Free the meat from fat and chop fine in a 
chopping-bowl ; it must be raw, and should 
measure a cupful. Dredge with a tablespoon- 
ful of flour, and put it into an agate-ware pot 
having a close-fitting cover. 

Add the bones, pour over a pint of cold water, 
and let it soak an hour or longer before putting 
on to cook. 

Heat gradually, and let simmer, closely cov- 
ered, for several hours. When done, the bones 
will drop apart, and the meat will slip from 
them. 

Now add a cupful of celery stalks and roots, 
chopped fine, and a tablespoonful of onion 
juice, and cook an hour or a little less ; strain 
through a soup-strainer, add three tablespoon- 
fuls sweet cream, boil up, salt and pepper to 
taste, and serve in cups. Pass the salted crack- 
ers known as '* Banquets.'* There should be, 
when the soup is done, three fourths of a pint ; 
if cooked so fast as to cook away, add a little 
boiling water. Use milk in the absence of 
cream, and thicken with a teaspoonful of flour 
blended with the same quantity of butter. 

This substitute does not equal rich cream, 
but it will serve if necessary. 

LAMB CHOPS (BROILED). 

Order four fine lamb chops from the loin, lay 
them on a meat-board, and with a small, sharp 



78 Gaterittd tot TTwo. 

knife cut out the bone from each one, careful 
not to spoil the shape of the chops. 

Cut away carefully the long stringy ends, but 
leave the border of fat and the outer pink skin 
intact. Scrape from the bone the tiny roll of 
marrow, put it in the chop, press together gen- 
tly, and wrap the long strip of fat around the 
whole, pinning securely with a small wooden 
skewer or a long clinch-nail. 

You now have a round, compact chop, encir- 
cled with a border of delicious fat. The ends 
and bones are to be used for celery soup. 

If but two chops are required for dinner, .the 
others may be kept in the ice-chest and served, 
with a slice of lemon, for next morning's break- 
fast. 

In broiling, observe the directions with the 
rule for serving porter-house steak. 

Chops an inch in thickness will take about 
ten minutes to cook. 

Count one hundred and fifty, turn ; then 
count the same number for the other side. Now 
count ten, turn, and keep on in this way until 
four hundred has been counted. 

Test by cutting into one of the chops, and if 
the meat looks red and raw return to the fire 
for a few more turns, counting five between 
each turn. 

This constant turning prevents burning and 
over-cooking. 

Take out the skewers, and put the chops on 



Catering tor (Two. 79 

warm, but not hot, plates, with a piece of but- 
ter, salt, and a spring of parsley or cress on 
each. 

Broiled meats must be served immediately to 
be at their best. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Select six potatoes, all of one size and as free 
from blemishes as possible. 

Wash thoroughly in several waters, cut a 
small strip of skin from each end, and bake in a 
hot oven from thirty to sixty minutes. 

The time required depends upon the size, 
age, and quality of the potatoes and the heat of 
the oven. Test occasionally with a fork, and 
when done puncture them all over to enable 
the steam to escape : this makes them light and 
mealy. 

Keep hot in the open oven, uncovered, until 
ready to serve. 

Peel those which are left over, slice, and warm 
up with white sauce for another meal. 

LEMON MARMALADE. 

Put the rind of a lemon on the stove to boil 
for half an hour in a pint of cold water. Drain 
(throw away the water) and chop very fine, add- 
ing also the lemon pulp, which should be freed 
from seeds, and a cupful of fresh water. Return 



8o Caterind tor ITwo. 

to the fire and cook gently until the rind is very 
soft, about an hour : add a cupful of sugar and 
cook fifteen or twenty minutes longer, stirring 
occasionally to prevent burning. When skim- 
ming take off only the fine yellow froth gath- 
ered in little patches here and there. 

When cool, put in a glass dish for the table. 

This marmalade may be boiled down very 
thick, when it will keep in a dry place for 
months. Put in tumblers with brandied paper 
over the top the same as jellies. 

SAI/TKD ALMONDS. 

These may be purchased at the confectioner's 
but can easily be done at home by any one with 
sufficient leisure. 

Blanch the almonds by pouring boiling water 
over them ; the skins will slip off readily in a 
few minutes. 

Then coat them with melted butter or olive- 
oil — a teaspoonful of oil to a cupful of nuts will 
be about right ; spread on an agate-ware dish 
and brown in a hot oven. 

They will need close watching and stirring to 
prevent burning. Sprinkle with salt while 
roasting. 

Salted almonds are passed between the courses 
as an appetizer. 



Catering tor tTwo. 8i 

POT-CHBBSE WITH WATERCRESSES. 

Take half a cupful of fine fresh pot-cheese, 
add salt to taste, and as much sweet butter and 
cream as will be needed to make a soft, pliable 
mass ; butter size of an egg will generally be 
enough. Work this together with a four-tined 
fork and afterwards with a broad-bladed knife 
until thoroughly incorporated, then smooth 
into a round mound, and garnish with water- 
cresses. 

Do not add the cream until the butter and 
cheese are thoroughly mixed together. 

Pass salt in e crackers. 

If this is made a separate course, use little 
cheese-plates, and pass any candied fruit pre- 
ferred, cherries x>t plums, ginger or pineapple. 

FRUIT DUMPLINGS (BAKED). 

Rub together a heaping dessert-spoonful of 
sweet butter with an even half-cupful of flour 
sifted with half a teaspoonful of baking-powder 
and one third of a teaspoonful of salt. Add 
three even tablespoonfuls of cold water and 
mix lightly with a spoon. Divide into halves, 
form each in a ball, lay on a floured board, and 
roll out lightly and quickly to the size of a large 
saucer. Put into the middle of each round, half 
of a fine winter greening (sliced), add a table- 
spoonful of sugar, a dust of flour, and a small 
lump of butter, and bring the paste up to the 

6 



82 Catering tor (Two. 

top and pinch it into ball shape, leaving a half- 
inch opening at the top for the steam to escape. 

Bake in deep saucers, well buttered, for half 
an hour in a hot oven. Serve hot with sauce 
made of one even tablespoonful of flour with 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar and one tablespoon- 
ful of butter. Add a pinch of salt, stir until 
creamy, and then add a cupful of boiling water. 
Cook several minutes, and just before serving 
add flavoring of vanilla, wine, or brandy. 

For the hard sauce, cream a dessert-spoonful 
of butter, add two thirds of a cup of confection- 
er's sugar, and a teaspoon ful of water if neces- 
sary to make it soft and creamy. Stir at least 
ten minutes and grate nutmeg over it. 

Peaches, fresh or canned, or p berries, pitted, 
may be substituted for the apples, if preferred. 



XIII. 

Tomato cream pur6e. 

Pork chops or tenderloin. Cream gravy. 
Browned sweet potatoes, or turnips browned in 

butter. 
Hot apple sauce. 
Bread and butter. 

Celery. Water crackers. Cheese. 
Preserved citron. 

Tapioca meringue. 
Tea or coffee. Salted almonds. 

TOMATO CREAM PUR6E. 

Pry a slice of salt pork, half an inch thick, 
until brown and put it, without the grease, into 
a saucepan with one cupful of tomatoes ; boil 
gently half an hour, then strain through a coarse 
^ sieve and put back upon the stove while the 
dumplings are being prepared, thus : 

Rub together half a teaspoonfiil of butter 
with two rounded tablespoon fuls of prepared 
flour, add a pinch of salt, and mix with the 

83 



84 Catering tor Zwo. 

yolk of one egg beaten with a tablespoonful of 
milk. Mould into ten flat cakes, put them into 
the boiling tomatoes, cover, and cook two min- 
utes ; then add a cupful of rich, creamy milk in 
which has been boiled a teaspoonful of butter 
mixed with a teaspoonful of flour, and a piece 
of soda the size of a pea. 

Take from the fire immediately, season to 
taste, and serve. 

PORK TENDERLOIN OR FRIED PORK 
CHOPS. (TWO RIBS OF FRESH PORK.) 

Have the chops cut from the prime part of 
the meat about an inch in thickness. Heat a 
spider smoking hot so as to brown the chops 
instantly when they go in. 

Cover and fry rapidly for a minute, turn and 
fry the other side, then remove to a cooler 
part of the stove and cook each side ten 
minutes. 

Pork should always be cooked slowly and 
thoroughly. 

Put the chops on a platter, season, and set in 
the oven to keep hot. 

Put a level teaspoonful of flour into the spi- 
der with a salt-spoonful of salt and a dust of 
pepper, stir the grease and brown sediment well 
into the flour, cook a moment, and add half a 
cupful of good, rich milk ; stir till it is a smooth, 
creamy gravy and pour over the chops. 



Catering tot ^wo. 85. 

Pork tenderloins should be cut in pieces of 
uniform size, and a quarter of a pound of fresh 
fat pork should be allowed for each one. Make 
gravy as directed for the chops. 

APPLE SAUCE (HOT). 

Pare, quarter, and core four medium-sized 
Rhode Island Greening or Baldwin apples, put 
them in an earthen or agate dish with a close 
cover, pour on six tablespoonfuls of boiling 
water and six tablespoonfuls of granulated su- 
gar. Cook rapidly ten minutes, then remove 
to a part of the stove where they will cook 
gently for an hour. Do not stir, and keep con- 
stantly covered. Be careful not to bum, but if 
they color a fine golden brown the flavor will 
be improved. 

SWEET POTATOES BROWNED IN 
THE OVEN. 

Wash two medium-sized sweet potatoes and 
cook either in boiling water or steam in a 
steamer ; time from twenty to forty minutes. 

Scrape o£f the skins with a knife, holding the 
potatoes in a napkin during the process. 

Slice once lengthwise, sprinkle with sugar 
and a little butter, and brown in a quick oven. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 



86 Catering tot (Two. 

TURNIPS BROWNED IN BUTTER. 

Slice very thin two boiled white turnips, and 
dust them with flour, salt» and pepper. 

Heat a tablespoonful of butter and one of 
milk, and fry the slices in this until a delicate 
brown. Only a moderate heat is required, as 
butter bums quickly. 

The milk produces a fine crust. 

TAPIOCA MERINGUE. 

Scald a pint of rich fresh milk, and when 
cold soak a half-cupful of flake tapioca in it 
over night ; in warm weather keep it in the re- 
frigerator. 

The next morning add the yolks of two eggs 
beaten with one heaping tablespoonful of gran- 
ulated sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt, and the 
grated rind of nearly half a lemon. Bake half 
an hour in a moderate oven in a deep dish. 

Whisk the whites of the eggs to a froth, add 
the juice of half of the lemon and two thirds 
of a cupful of sugar, spread over the top of the 
pudding, and brown a few minutes in the oven. 

Serve cold. 



XIV. 

.Ox-tail soup. 

Roast veal, stuffed. 
Rice croquettes. Mashed squash. 

or 

Boiled onions. Drawn butter. 

Rhubarb sauce (cold). 

Bread and butter. 

Asparagus on toast. 

Wine jelly. Macaroons. 

Tea or coffee. 
Crystallized fruit. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Order a fresh ox-tail jointed. 

Wash in cold water and put it into a porce- 
lain or agate kettle. 

Pour on five quarts of cold water and after 
soaking for two hours bring gradually to a boil 
and simmer until the meat drops from the 
bones. Add a chopped carrot, a leek, several 
stalks of celery, some parsley, and a cupful of 
tomatoes. When these are soft, strain the soup 
and set it away to get cold : there should be a 

87 



88 Catering tot Z\oo. 

qaart. Next day skim off the fat, put the soup 
over the fire, aud, when hot, add a teaspoonfuL 
of salt, a tablespoon fal of browned flour, half a 
teaspoonfiil of mixed spices (cloves, allspice, 
cinnamon, and nutmeg), a pinch of cayenne, 
and half a teaspoon ful of sugar. 

Sealed up hot in a glass preserving-jar, this 
soup will keep for two weeks in cold weather. 

Use one cupful for two people, and add a few 
spoonfuls of water when re-heating it. 

ROAST VEAL, STUFFED. 

Cut the edges of a veal cutlet (to prevent 
curling) weighing about a pound and a half. 

Pepper lightly and sprinkle over it about a 
quarter of a teaspoonful of thyme. Dredge with 
flour, put a bread-and-butter stufling on one 
half, fold the other half over it, and lay the veal 
on a thin slice of fresh fat pork, on a deep 
earthen dish, cover tightly, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven for two hours. 

Remove the veal to another dish, sprinkle 
with salt and browned bread crumbs, and return 
to the oven for a few minutes. 

Add a little flour and water to the sediment 
in the baking-dish, salt to taste, boil up, and 
pour around the veal. 

STEWED RHUBARB. 
Make a syrup of one and a half cupfuls of 



Catering tor tTwo* 89 

boiling water and one heaping cup of sugar: 
boil for a few minutes and add three cupfuls of 
rhubarb, skinned and cut into inch pieces. Do 
not skim the rhubarb, as much of the richness is 
lost in this way. 

Stir for a minute, cover closely, and do not 
stir again. Simmer for fifteen minutes, and 
when cold pour carefully, so as not to break the 
pieces, into a dish for the table. 

Bach piece should lie by itself, surrounded by 
the rich syrup. 

Rhubarb becomes very acid late in the sea- 
son, when it would be well to make an extra 
quantity of syrup, which might be passed when 
serving the dish. One cup of sugar to half a 
cup of water is right proportion for the syrup. 

RICB CROQUETTES. 

Boil for half an hour, in a covered saucepan, 
a scant half-cupful of rice in one pint of boiling 
water, with half a teaspoonful of salt. 

Make into oblong rolls the size of a hen's egg 
before the rice becomes entirely cold, and set 
away. When cold, dip each into a batter made 
of an egg beaten with a tablespoon ful of flour, 
one of melted butter, and one of milk. Fry in a 
tablespoonful of salt-pork drippings or butter, 
turning frequently so that all sides will be deli- 
cately browned. 

Some cooks prefer deep fat for frying cro- 



90 Catering tor TTwo. 

quettes. In this case, use a frying-basket, see 
that the fat is smoking hot, and lay the cro- 
quettes, when done, on brown paper, or, better 
still, on a piece of soft linen. Old table-linen 
when good for nothing else is of use here, but 
it must be kept scrupulously clean. 

MASHED SQUASH. 

Cut from a fine Hubbard squash enough to 
fill a pint bowl heaping full. Remove the seeds 
and soft part, peel, and cook in a steamer until 
very tender. 

Mash fine, stir in one fourth of a teaspoonful 
of salt and one of butter, heap smoothly in a 
vegetable dish, pepper lightly, and put in the 
centre a lump of butter the size of an English 
walnut. 

If summer squash is used, steam whole and 
mash seeds and skin. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Peel and boil in boiling salted water, four 
medium-sized white onions ; time, about thirty- 
five to forty minutes. 

Take out with a skimmer, drain, and pour 
over them a sauce made in this way : 

Stir to a cream a dessert-spoonful of butter, 
add one of flour, one third of a teaspoonful of 
salt, and, slowly, one third of a cupful of boil- 



Catcrina tor (Two* 91 

ing milk, stirring constantly until smooth : 
cook a few minutes. 

If preferred, the onions may be served with a 
simple dressing of salt and pepper, with a small 
lump of butter in each onion. 

ASPARAGUS ON TOAST. 

Get large-sized white asparagus ; Oyster Bay 
is considered fine. 

Remove the string, put in a pan of cold water, 
and rinse well to get out the grit. Tie together 
loosely with a broad band of muslin (or lay in 
the frame of an asparagus boiler) so that it may 
be lifted out easily when done. Pour on about 
a quart of boiling water with half a teaspoon ful 
of salt, and cook gently, but steadily, for twenty 
minutes. Reserve, when done, a dozen stalks 
for next day's salad. 

Lay the asparagus on a platter with the heads 
on two slices of well-toasted bread which have 
been slightly moistened with asparagus water. 
Make a sauce of one dessert-spoonful of butter, 
one of flour, a pinch of salt, dust of pepper, 
and one third of a cupful of the water the as- 
paragus boiled in : cook a few minutes and pour 
over. 

Serve as a separate course in place of a salad. 

WINE JEIvLY. 
Soak for ten minutes, four rounded teaspoon- 



92 Catering toe ^wo* 

fuls of gelatine in two tablespoonfuls of cold 
water. Add a pinch of cinnamon, three heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, a few 
grains of salt, one even cup of boiling water, 
and stir well together. When cool, add five 
tablespoonfuls of sherry, cover closely to keep 
in the flavor of the wine, and set on ice to 
harden. 

In hot weather use five teaspoon fuls of gela- 
tine and make the day before it is wanted. 



XV. 

Boiled fish. 

HoUandaise sauce. 

Cucumbers or pickled cabbage. 

Beef d la mode. 

French fried potatoes. 

Succotash. Preserved grapes. 

Lettuce 

or 

Apple salad. 

Crackers. Cheese. 

Prune pudding. 
Tea or coffee. Nuts. 
Crystallized ginger. 

BOILED FISH. 

Wash the fish quickly in cold water and wipe 
dry. 

Dredge lightly with flour and pepper, roll in a 
napkin, place in a quart of boiling water to 
which has been added a little salt and a spoon- 
ful of vinegar, and cook, allowing about ten 

93 



94 Cateriud tor Zwo. 

mintues to the pound for fresh fish. Salt, and 
serve on a platter garnished with parsley. 

Any fish which remains may be made into a 
salad or into cakes and warmed in a steamer for 
next day. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

Put into a saucepan which fits into the tea- 
kettle, a tablespoonfiil of butter ; whip into it 
the yolk of an egg, add a pinch of salt and 
cayenne, two tablespoonfuls of boiling water, 
and a teaspoonfiil of cider vinegar. 

Cook and stir until it is a little thick. 

A few drops of lemon juice may be added. 
See that it is very hot, and keep the vessel cov- 
ered to prevent a crust forming. 

Serve a portion with each plate of fish. 

BEEF X LA MODE. 
(Top sirloin, one pound.) 

Dredge a pound of top sirloin with a table- 
spoonful of flour and a dust of pepper, roll up, 
and put in a pot with a cupful of tomatoes. 
Add a tablespoonful of chopped salt pork (fried 
to extract the grease), pepper, dredge again 
with flour, cover closely, and bake four hours 
in a slow oven. 

Serve the meat on a deep platter and pour 
the gravy (salted) over it. 

The ** Universal Pot " is best for this dish. 



Catering tor ^vpo* 95 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

Wash and peel three potatoes, each the size of 
an egg, quarter them lengthwise, soak in cold 
water a few minutes, wipe dry, and fry in hot 
lard in a frying-basket. 

Salt and pepper and serve hot. 

If preferred the potatoes may be fried in a 
spider in a spoonful of hot pork drippings : 
keep the cover on until they are done, turning 
as the underside becomes brown. 

Then remove the cover and allow them to 
get crisp. Serve at once. 

SUCCOTASH. 

A half-cupfdl of com, either grated or canned, 
a half-cupful of cooked beans, salt and pepper 
to taste, and enough milk to make it a little 
juicy : add also a teaspoonful of flour and a 
heaping tablespoonful of butter. Stir, boil up 
and serve ; long cooking toughens com. 

If string-beans are used, cut them into inch 
pieces and cook until tender in just enough 
salted water to cover : if lima beans, cook these 
also until done, or if they have been dried, soak 
twenty-four hours in cold water and then cook 
before adding. 

APPLE SALAD. 

Chop fine or slice in very thin slices a juicy 
Greening or Baldwin apple. 



96 Catering tot (Two. 

Add an equal amount of crisp white celery, a 
pinch each of salt and mustard and pepper, 
and finally two tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar. 
Stir and cover closely in a cold place for half an 
hour. 

A few minutes before serving pour over the 
following dressing : 

Stir together the yolk of an eggy a pinch of 
salt, one of sugar, a dust of cayenne, and add, 
drop by drop, two spoonfuls of olive-oil or 
melted butter. 

The bowl may be rubbed with a slice of onion 
if that flavor is liked. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

Rinse one scant cupful of prunes in cold 
water, pour on them one cupful of boiling 
water, add a scant cupful of granulated sugar, 
the grated rind and juice of a quarter of a 
lemon, and cook gently four or five hours, 
covered closely, in an earthern dish. 

About three hours before dinner, melt a 
rounded tablespoonful of sweet butter in a cup 
nearly full of lukewarm milk which has been 
scalded. 

Add half a compressed yeast-cake, one table- 
spoonful of sugar, one level teaspoonful of salt, 
and when these are dissolved, a well-beaten egg. 

Beat and add two cupfuls of flour, sifted be- 
fore measuring. 



Catering tot ^wo. 97 

• 

stir thoroughly and set to rise, covered, in a 
temperature of about 90 degrees. 

At the expiration of an hour, stir, and pour 
one third of the batter over the prunes, which 
have been taken out of the syrup and placed 
close together in an earthen pudding-dish (they 
should be cooled). 

Sprinkle over the top of the batter a table- 
spoonful of sugar and grate on a little lemon 
rind, cover closely with a high cover (to g^ve 
room for the batter to rise), and set for another 
hour in a warm place (90 degrees). 

Bake in a moderate oven twenty or twenty- 
five minutes, uncovered. Serve hot with a 
sauce made from the juice of the prunes as 
follows : 

Mix together one dessert-spoonful of butter, 
one teaspoonful of flour, one tablespoonful of 
sugar, the juice of quarter a lemon, the juice 
from the prunes, and enough boiling water to 
make a cupful. 

Boil and serve hot. Pour the remainder of 
the batter into patty-pans, let them rise, covered, 
the same as the pudding, and bake. Bat hot, in 
place of bread, for dinner. 



XVI. 

Consomm^ julienne. 

Fresh fish (baked). 
Potato cakes. Hot slaw. 
String- or batter-beans. 
Bread and butter. Cucumbers. 

Chicken salad. 
Crackers. Cheese. 

Apple, peach, or rhubarb pie. 

Tea or coffee. Crystallized pineapple. 



Alternative : Fried oysters. Suet pudding. 

Oranges. 

CONSOMM^ JULIENNE. 

Heat a pint of soup-stock and add to it half a 
cupful of spring vegetables, shredded fine ; cook 
until tender and serve. 

FRESH SHAD, BLUEFISH OR MACKEREL, 
WHITEFISH, PIKE, BASS, ETC. 

(One to two pounds, stuffed and baked. ) 

If small use the whole fish, but if a large one 
take only one side. • After cleaning inside and 

98 



Catering tor (Two. 99 

out, immerse . in cold water, wash thoroughly, 
but quickly to avoid losing the sweet flavor, 
wipe gently with a clean napkin, dredge all 
over with flour, dust with pepper and a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and fill with a stuffing of bread 
crumbs, the rule for which is given in Roast 
Pork. 

Place the fish in a pan just wide enough for 
it and if half a fish is used lay two thin slices 
of salt pork on top of the stuffing — if an entire 
fish, on top of the fish. Dredge with flour and 
bake in a hot oven one hour. Lift carefully, so 
as not to break, and serve on a platter. If pre- 
ferred the head and tail may be cut ofl" before 
cooking; some cooks prefer to send to table 
whole, but to do so one must be expert in dish- 
ing, as the fish breaks easily. 

The remainder of the uncooked part may be 
broiled or fried for another meal, but it must be 
kept directly on ice, as it spoils quickly. 

The sooner fish reaches the fire after being 
taken from the water the finer the flavor. 

Cold fish makes an excellent salad. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Mince very fine in a chopping-bowl two cup- 
fuls of cold boiled or baked potatoes ; sprinkle 
with half a teaspoonful of salt and a teaspoonful 
of flour ; mix thoroughly with the yolk of an 
egg and a teaspoonful of butter, and mold into 



100 Catering tor Zxoo. 

four round flat cakes. If the potatoes are too 
mealy to knead easily, add enough milk to make 
them of proper consistency ; the cakes should 
be so soft as barely to hold together before 
cooking. 

Make a batter of one tablespoonful of 
melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of cold 
milk, and one tablespoonful of flour, in a 
saucer. Dip each cake in the batter, careful 
not to break, and fry a delicate brown in either 
a teaspoonftd of hot butter or salt-pork drip- 
pings. If any batter is left, pour it over the 
cakes before turning to fry on other side. 

Use a pancake-turner. 

Garnish with parsley. 

HOT SI.AW. 

Put into a saucepan a quart of finely shredded 
cabbage ; sprinkle with half a teaspoonful of 
salt, pour on a cupful of boiling water, cover, 
and cook half an hour. At the end of this time 
add half a cup of milk and a teaspoonful of 
butter, and cook down quite dry. Serve in a 
vegetable-dish with the following sauce : Beat 
ail egg until frothy, add a tablespoonful of cider 
vinegar in which have been dissolved a pinch 
each of red pepper, mustard, salt, and sugar. 
Add a teaspoonful of butter, and set over a tea- 
kettle until a little thick, then add a quarter of 
a cup of boiling milk. 

Stir, and serve. 



Catering tor Zv^o. xoi 

STRING-BEANS. 

Wash and pull the strings from a quart of fresh 
brittle string-beans ; break into inch pieces. If 
they do not snap easily they are old and will 
prove neither tender nor delicious. Cook for 
two hours in one pint of boiling water with half 
a teaspoonful of salt and a thin slice of fried 
salt pork without the grease. 

Throw away the pork at the end of two hours, 
add to the beans a heaping tablespoonful of but- 
ter, a tablespoonful of flour, and plenty of pep- 
per, cook up, and serve in a vegetable-tureen. 

BUTTER-BEANS. 

These are string-beans of a bright yellow 
color which will require only half as long time 
to cook as the green variety. Cook until tender 
in enough boiling salted water to cover. 

Add a tablespoonful each of butter and flour, 
and cook down to a rich sauce. 

A quart is enough for two meals, and they 
will be just as good warmed over. 

Do not use pork with the butter-bean. 

CUCUMBERS. 

Peel a fresh, crisp cucumber, slice as thin as 
a knife blade and lay in strongly salted ice- 
water in the refrigerator for several hours. 



I02 Catering tor ttwo. 

Drain and serve (in a dish rubbed with an 
onion) with cayenne pepper, oil, and vinegar. 
The hot slaw should be omitted if cucumbers 
are served. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Place the body of a chicken, with the giblets, 
in a kettle, dredge with two teaspoonfuls of 
flour, pour on one cupful of boiling water, 
cover, and cook until the meat is so tender that 
it will break easily when twisted gently with a 
fork. 

Cook so slowly and cover so closely that there 
need be no renewing of the water. 

When done, take a cupful of the meat freed 
from bone and skin, cut (do not chop) into 
half-inch bits. Mash the liver with a knife- 
blade and stir it into the gravy. Take a table- 
spoonful of the gravy prepared in this way and 
stir it in with the cupful of chicken, add salt 
and pepper and, when cold, a cupful of celery, 
salted, peppered, and cut into half-inch pieces. 
Cover and put away in a cold place. Only the 
finest and whitest celery is fit to use for chicken 
salad. Just before sending to the table pour 
over the salad the following dressing. The 
quantity is sufficient for several salads and it 
will keep in a cold place for a week. 

The cream may be sweet or sour, and if it 
will not whip readily, use it plain. 



Catering tor XLv^o. 103 

CREAM DRESSING. 

In an agate-ware saucepan that fits over the 
teakettle, beat the yolk of one egg with half an 
even teaspoonful of salt, same of sugar, a pinch 
of cayenne, and half an even teaspoonful of 
flour. 

Mix in a cup one tablespoonful of cider 
vinegar and half a teaspoonful of mustard, and 
add to the mixture in the saucepan. Stir well 
and add two tablespoonfuls of milk ; cook over 
the teakettle for two minutes, stirring constantly 
from the bottom and sides. Remove from the 
fire and whip until cold, with a fork ; then 
add four tablespoonfuls of cream, whipped to a 
stiff froth, and from three to eight tablespoon- 
fuls of olive-oil. 

If it should separate, warm it slightly by set- 
ting the bowl in warm water for a minute, and 
beat thoroughly. 

PIE-CRUST (FLAKY). 

Dip from the bag one even cupful of flour, 
add half a teaspoonful of salt, and sift two or 
three times. 

With a knife cut into the flour half a cup of 
ice-cold lard to the size of peas, add four table- 
spoonfuls of ifce-cold water, and stir with a 
spoon. If more water is needed, sprinkle in 
a few drops, but not as much as a tablespoon- 
fid. 



I04 Catering tor tTwo* 

Divide the paste in two equal parts, roll out 
one half and fit it into a pie pan. 

Roll out the other half an eighth of an inch 
in thickness, dot it with a tablespoon ful of 
sweet butter, dredge lightly with flour, fold up 
to the smallest compass possible, beat with the 
roUing-pin, and roll out once, pressing the roll- 
ing-pin this way and that during the process. 

Slash with a knife in any desired pattern, 
lay upon the fruit in the pan, which contains the 
under crust, and pinch the edges together ; then 
trim and bind the edges with a strip of muslin 
two inches wide, wet in cold water: this will 
keep in the juices. Bake at once in a hot oven. 
The under crust may be baked first if preferred. 

Prick it all over with a fork to prevent blis- 
tering. 

Never handle pie-crust any more than is 
absolutely necessary ; the quicker it is made, 
and the colder the materials, the better it will 
be when baked. 

Use just enough flour to keep it from stick- 
ing to the board and rolling-pin, and see that 
the hands are cool. 

Prepare the fruit before beginning the paste, 
and be particular to have lard and butter as 
cold as possible. 

RHUBARB, PEACH, OR APPLB PIE. 

Rhubarb pies need an upper and lower crust, 
but peach and apple pies are delicious if made 



Catering tor XTwo. 105 

in deep saucers with only a round of upper 
crust laid lightly on top of the fruit, and not 
pinched to the edge of the saucer. 

' Peel and cut the fruit in slices, fill the saucers, 
sprinkle with sugar (two tablespoonfuls for 
each greening apple, and more or less accord- 
ing to the sourness of peaches), dredge with 
flour, dust on nutmeg or cinnamon, and they 
are ready for the covers. 

Peel and cut the pie-plant into inch pieces, 
add one cup of sugar to three heaping cupfuls 
of rhubarb and a tablespoonful of flour, mix 
together, and place on the pan with the under 
crust, cover and bind as directed, and bake. 
Some cooks prefer not td peel the pie-plant for 
pies; the flavor however is more delicate to 
peel. 

If cherries are used do not stone them. If 
canned fruit, reserve the juice, boil it with 
sugar and a little flour, and pour it into the 
pie after baking. 

Pies need plenty of sugar. 

CANDIED PINEAPPLE. 

Cover one pint of sliced pineapple with half 
a pint of granulated sugar, let it stand until 
the sugar is dissolved, then drain off" the juice 
closely. Cook for a few minutes, add the pine- 
apple, cook two minutes, spread on a platter, 
and keep either in the warming-oven or the 



io6 Catering tot tTwo* 

sunshine for a day. Turn the pieces and let 
it stand for another day. 
Put away in glass, covered, in a dry place. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 
(Twenty medium-sized oysters.) 

Crush to a powder four milk or sea-foam 
crackers : mix thoroughly with a half-teaspoon- 
ful of salt, unless the oysters are of the salt 
variety, which may be ascertained by tasting 
the juice. 

Roll each oyster in the cracker crumbs and 
fry to a delicate brown in hot butter. 

A lump of butter the size of an egg will be 
required, putting on the second half when the 
oysters are turned. Fry quickly, as oysters 
toughen and deteriorate by long contact with 
heat, every instant counting after they are 
done. 

Have the pan and half of the butter hot when 
the oysters go in, but do not cover. 

As soon as they are browned, turn with a 
broad-bladed knife : avoid using a fork, as oys- 
ters should not be pierced. 

Put in the other half of the butter and brown 
the other side of the oysters. 

Pepper lightly and serve on a hot platter. 
The sooner oysters and clams are cooked after 
leaving the shell, the better. 

If any juice is left, mix with rolled cracker 
and fry in butter. 



Sr=SMMMMMMaHM«| 



Catering tor tlwo. 107 

SUET PUDDING. 

Sift twice, one and a half cupfuls of flour with 
one teaspoon ful of baking-powder, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful 
each of cloves and cinnamon. Chop into this 
half a cupful of suet, add half a cupful of stoned 
raisins, and mix well with the flour. 

Beat together half a cupful each of milk and 
molasses and stir with the other ingredients. 

Steam in a steamer an hour and a half. The 
fire should be steady and the water boiling be- 
fore the pudding is put together. 

The fire should not get low nor the water 
stop boiling before it is done. 

For the sauce, cream a lump of butter the 
size of an egg, add a scant cupful of sugar, a 
tablespoonful of flour, a pinch of salt, and, 
gradually, a generous half-cup of boiling water. 

Cook a few minutes and flavor with a wine- 
glass of wine or brandy. 



XVII. 

Cream of Asparagus. 

Veal cutlet (breaded). 
Potatoes browned in milk. 
Spinach. Egg sauce. 
Bread and butter. Grape jelly. 

Sliced tomatoes. French dressing. 
American club-house cheese. 
Saratoga chip crackers. 



Cottage pudding. Wine sauce. 

Tea or coffee. 

Bananas. Bonbons. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Two thirds of a pint of water in which aspara- 
gus has boiled. 

To this add three or four stalks of fresh aspar- 
agus and one dessert-spoonful of butter mixed 
with one teaspoon ful of flour, and let it boil 
until the stalks are tender. Mash these through 
the soup, add a pinch of cayenne pepper, two 
tablespoonfuls of cream, and salt to taste ; 

io8 



Catering (or XLwo. 109 

strain and serve \yith any kind of delicate 
crackers. If preferred, instead of using water 
in which asparagus has been boiled, cut up 
half a dozen stalks, and cook until tender in a 
pint (scant) of water : 'mash, and proceed as 
directed. 

VEAL CUTLET. 

Get a slice from the thick part of the leg 
weighing about a pound and a half. Divide in 
two pieces, using but one for the present dinner : 
the butcher will keep the other in ^his ice- 
chest. 

Lay the veal on a meat-block or old pie tin 
and pound with a hammer until it becomes a 
jelly, pushing it together here and there to 
keep it thick and in shape : cut the edges 
every half-inch to prevent curling. Roll lightly 
in fine cracker crumbs and put it in a spider 
where a dessert-spoonful of butter is frying. 
Put another spoonful of butter in dots over the 
meat, fry rapidly for a minute, careful not to 
burn the butter ; then remove to a cooler part 
of the range and cook each side for twenty 
minutes : it should be a fine brown. 

Put the cutlet on a heated platter, and salt 
and pepper lightly. Add to the pan a teaspoon- 
ful of flour, stir and pour on half a cupful of 
boiling water : cook, add salt, and pour over 
the meat. Garnish with slices of lemon and 
serve a slice with each plate. 



no Catering tor iXvco. 

Fresh fat pork is very nice for frying veal in 
instead of butter. Cut it into bits and use two 
tablespoonfuls. Six oyster crackers are suffi- 
cient for the breading. 

Pound and cut the second cutlet in the same 
way : dip into a batter made of one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, a heaping tablespoon ful of butter, 
melted, and half of a beaten egg. 

Fry slowly in a little butter and make the 
gravy as directed for the breaded cutlet, adding 
a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

Garnish with watercresses. 

Any meat left may be used for a salad ; chop, 
mix with lettuce, and serve with salad dressing. 

POTATOES BROWNED IN MILK. 

Melt in a small spider a heaping teaspoonful 
of table butter ; take from the fire and add a 
large pinch of salt, one third of a cup of milk, 
and one teaspoonful of flour ; stir, and add two 
cupfuls of very thinly sliced cold baked or boiled 
potatoes. 

Stir all together, dust with black pepper, 
cover, and cook without further stirring for 
about fifteen minutes. 

Set the spider on a wet cloth for a few min- 
utes to sweat, and turn out on a dish for serv- 
ing. The bottom will be brown and richly 
glazed, and the upper portion will be creamy. 



Catering tor XLwo. m 

Serve bottom upward and be careful not to 
break. 

SPINACH WITH EGG SAUCE. 

Put a small measure of spinach (beet tops, or 
dandelions may be substituted) in a pan of cold 
water for several hours. 

Pick over each leaf carefully, using the en- 
tire root of the beets and as much of the roots 
of the spinach as possible. Wash in several 
waters to get out all the sand ; when perfectly 
clean there will not be any sand on the bottom 
of the pan. 

Cook in one quart of boiling water, to which 
a teaspoonful of salt has been added, for twenty 
minutes. 

Skim out the greens and heap in a mound on 
a vegetable dish ; serve with the following 
sauce : 

Mash fine the yolk of a hard-boiled egg with 
a tablespoonful of melted butter ; add a large 
pinch of salt, one of cayenne and one of mus- 
tard. 

Beat the whole of one raw egg with a table- 
spoonful of melted butter, or olive-oil, add two 
tablespoonfuls cider vinegar, add the other in- 
gredients, also two tablespoonfuls of milk. 
Cook over the teakettle until it is a little thick, 
add the white of the hard-boiled egg, finely 
chopped, and pass with the spinach. 



112 Catering tor XLvqo. 

Greens may also be served with hard-boiled 
eggs, sliced, and with a French dressing of 
vinegar, salt, oil, and pepper. 

SLICED TOMATOES. 

Pare with a sharp knife, two medinm-sized, 
ripe, sound tomatoes. Put them on ice to be- 
come very cold, and, when ready to serve, slice 
and arrange them on a salad dish. The dish 
may first be rubbed with a slice of raw onion, 
if that flavor is liked. 

Serve with French dressing ladled from a 
gravy-boat. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Cream with the hand one fourth of a cup of 
butter, add a half-cup of sugar and the yolk 
of one egg. When very light add half a cup 
of milk which is blood warm, then one cup of 
flour sifted four times with a rounded teaspoon- 
ful of baking-powder and one fourth of a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Whisk the white of the egg 
to a stiff froth, stir the cake up again, and add 
the egg. 

Bake in muffin-rings, filling them a little less 
than half full. 

Use two of these little cakes for dinner. 

They should be served with wine sauce, made 
as follows : 

Mix one even teaspoonful of corn-starch with 



catering tot Zvoo. 113 

an even teaspoonful of butter and one heaping 
tablespoonful of sugar, add half a cup of boiling 
water, half a teaspoonful of caramel, and a 
small pinch of salt, and boil, covered, for a few 
minutes. 

When ready to serve add a tablespoonful of 
sherry. 

Oranges may be cut up and placed around 
the base of these puddings. 

The remainder of the cakes may be frosted 
with confectioner's sugar and a little lemon 
juice, with sufficient water to make it a pliable 
paste. 

This batter makes a good layer cake : bake 
in three layers, in a quick oven. 

For chocolate filling, melt one cake (square) 
of chocolate in a saucepan over the teakettle, 
add eight even tablespoonfuls of confectioner's 
sugar, and thin the mixture with four table- 
spoonfuls of cream : flavor with half a teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla extract. 

For cream cake, beat one egg with a table- 
spoonful of sugar, a pinch of salt, half a tea- 
spoonful of lemon extract, and add slowly half 
a cup of boiling milk in which a heaping tea- 
spoonful of flour has been cooked. Boil over 
the teakettle a few minutes, stirring constantly. 
Mix the flour first with a spoonful of cold milk, 
then add to the boiling milk. . 

Spread on the cakes when cool : frost the top 
layer. 

8 



XVIII. 

Vegetable soap. 

Beefsteak padding. 
Browned potatoes. 
Stewed tomatoes. 
Bread and butter. 

Onion salad. French dressing. 
Banqaet crackers. Old English cheese. 

Floating island. 
Wafers. 

Tea or cofiPee. 
Apples. Assorted nuts. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Blend a tablespoonful of butter with one tea- 
spoonful of flour, and pour on it, stirring con- 
stantly, three cupfuls of boiling water ; cook 
for fifteen minutes, then add one and a half 
cupfuls of onion, turnip, and carrot, cut in 
quarters, salt to taste, a pinch of cayenne, and 
boil half an hour. At the end of this time skim 
out the vegetables, add to the soup two table- 
I spoonfuls of tomatoes, and boil fifteen or twenty 

minutes. 

f 114 



Catering tot Zwo. 115 

strain, and serve with minced parsley stirred 
through it. 

Small oyster-crackers or Saratoga chips may 
be passed with this soup. 

Serve the vegetables the following day 
warmed up in a cream sauce. 

BEEFSTEAK PUDDING. 

Put into the bottom of a quart earthen bowl 
two slices of salt pork which have been fried 
a delicate brown, but do not use the grease 
which tried out in the frying. 

Place upon the pork one pound of raw round 
steak (freed from fat), and upon the steak a 
lump of butter the size of an egg; dust on 
black pepper, cover the bowl, and set in a pot 
with boiling water reaching half-way up the 
sides of the bowl. 

Put a wire tea-stand, or meat-rack, in the 
bottom of the pot for the bowl to rest on, cover 
closely, and boil three hours, replenishing the 
the water as it cooks away from the boiling 
teakettle. 

At the end of two and a quarter hours pour 
oflF half of the gravy, salt the meat with one 
third of a teaspoonful of salt, and lay over it a 
crust made in the following way : 

Put one fourth of a cup of finely chopped suet 
into the chopping-bowl, add half a cup of flour 
in which has been sifted one half of a rounded 



ii6 aatetiitd tor TTvpo. 

teaspoonful of baking-powder and half of an 
even teaspoonful of salt ; chop flour and suet 
together, and mix in with a spoon three table- 
spoonfuls of ice-water. If more wetting is 
needed, sprinkle in a few more drops of water ; 
it should be of the consistency of biscuit-dough. 

See that the suet is ice cold, and do not 
handle the dough more than is absolutely 
necessary, but get it over the fire as soon as 
possible. 

The bowl should be left uncovered, so that 
the steam may reach the crust, and the pot 
must be covered closely. 

When done, pour out on a deep platter, meat- 
side down, and over all pour the gravy. This 
is made by cooking two lamb kidneys (chopped 
fine), with one slice of onion and a pinch of 
cayenne pepper, in a cup of cold water for 
thirty minutes. Cook gently, and take oflF the 
scum carefully as it rises, or the gravy will be 
strong and disagreeable. The little veins and 
fat in the centre of the kidneys should be re- 
moved, and they should be washed in cold 
water before being chopped. 

Thicken the gravy with a tablespoonful of 
flour which has been mixed smooth with the 
gravy from the meat. 

If too thick add a little boiling water. 

This dish may be prepared on the previous 
day, and will be fully as delicious as when first 
cooked. 



Catering tot Zvoo. n? 

Warm over by setting the bowl containing it 
in a steamer over boiling water. 

BROWNED POTATOES. 

Wash and peel two medium-sized potatoes, 
split them, dust with salt, dredge lightly with 
flour, lay upon a baking-tin, closely covered, 
and bake in a hot oven. When soft, turn 
them, put a small lump of butter on each piece, 
dust with pepper, and brown a little longer, 
uncovered. 

To be right they should have a crisp brown 
coat and be mealy inside. 

The mealiness depends on the quality of the 
potatoes and the heat of the oven. A slow oven 
is not good. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Add to two cupfuls of tomatoes a scant half- 
teaspoonful of salt and a sprinkle of cayenne 
pepper, and stew gently for half an hour, stir- 
ring occasionally to prevent burning. 

Add a pinch of sugar and a teaspoonful of 
butter, and cook for ten minutes longer with 
the saucepan covered. 

Use agate or earthenware, as the acid of to- 
matoes corrodes tin. 

ONION SALAD. 

Slice a Bermuda or Spanish onion in wafer- 
like slices, and soak in enough cold salted water 



ii8 Catering tor Xlwo. 

to cover, several hours. Drain, rinse in cold 
fresh water, and serve with a simple dressing 
of vinegar, pepper (black and cayenne) and 
salt, with oil in any desired proportion. 

This is a most healthful salad, and it may be 
eaten with cold sliced potatoes and lettuce. 

The silver-skinned, or white, onion, may be 
used if the others are out of market. 

FlvOATING ISLAND. 

Mix half even teaspoonful of flour with one 
of cold milk, add two thirds of a cup of boiling 
milk, and place the vessel containing it in a 
saucepan of boiling water to cook, stirring oc- 
casionally, while whipping the white of an egg 
to a stiff" froth. 

Then beat to a cream the yolk of the egg 
with a heaping tablespoonful of granulated 
sugar and a pinch of salt. Pour the boiling 
milk upon the yolk and sugar, beat well and 
return to the saucepan, stirring continually 
while cooking two minutes. 

Remove from fire and add half a teaspoonful 
of lemon extract (or other flavoring). 

Add to the frothed white one teaspoonful of 
lemon juice, a few grains of salt, and a tea- 
spoonful of confectioner's sugar. 

Whisk together and lay on top of the hot 
custard. Cover closely, and, when cold, pour 
into a glass dish for the table. 



Catetitid tot ^wo. 119 

Serve ice cold. 

Strawberries, or ripe peaches (cut up), may be 
served with this dish if liked. 
Pass almond or vanilla wafers. 

VANIIvLA WAFERS. 

One fourth of a cup of butter, one cup of 
flour lightly put in, one rounded teaspoonfiil of 
baking-powder, one fourth of a teaspoonful 
of salt, one yolk of egg, one half-cup of moist 
sugar, three tablespoon fuls of cold water, one 
scant teaspoonful of flavoring. 

Sift flour, baking-powder, and salt four times, 
and rub in the butter. 

Beat the yolk and sugar to a cream, add fla- 
voring, and, by the spoonful, the water. 

Then add this to the flour, stirring it in with 
the hand till the mass is light and smooth. 
Keep the fingers spread apart while beating. 

Put this mixture in half-teaspoon fuls on the 
inverted bottoms of well-buttered pans, at inter- 
vals of two inches. Spread a little by a circular 
motion of the spoon tip, and bake in a quick » 
but not fierce, oven a few minutes. 



XIX. 

Oyster soup. 

Pork and beans. 

Spiced tomato sauce (hot). 

Hot com bread. Cider. 

Salted almonds. 

Celery. Cream cheese. Crackers. 

Preserved ginger. 

Indian pudding. 

Tea or coflFee. 

Nut candies. Apples. 

OYSTER STEW. 

(Twenty-five freshened oysters.) 

See the oysters opened and if possible get 
those which have been " freshened," as they 
are preferable to the salt ones. Put a pint of 
rich sweet milk on the fire to scald, and in an- 
other saucepan the strained oyster liquor : skim 
the latter well as it boils. Add to it a lump of 
butter the size of an egg, blended with a half- 
teaspoonful of flour (not more), and when this 

120 



Catering tor Z\oo. 121 

is cooked, add the oysters and set the saucepan 
where the contents will keep at the boiling- 
point for a minute or two. Then add the 
scalding milk and serve at once. Add salt and 
pepper to taste, with a few drops of onion juice. 
Do not allow the stew even to boil up or 
simmer after the milk goes in, or it will be sure 
to curdle. Serve with oyster-crackers or small 
squares of toasted bread. 

PORK AND BEANS. 

Pick over and wash one pint of pea-beans and 
soak over night in a pint of cold water. In the 
morning add two more cups of water and cook 
for ten minutes. At the expiration of this time 
stir in a half-teaspoonful of baking-soda and 
skim ofif the froth. Drain off all the water and 
put the beans in a pot with a fitted cover : a 
pipkin or agate-ware vessel will do if a regular 
bean-pot is not at hand. 

Mix a pint of fresh boiling water with half a 
teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, and an 
even tablespoonful of either sugar or molasses. 
Pour this over the beans, set in a moderate 
oven, and bake slowly for three hours, covered : 
at the end of this time add half a pound of 
washed salt pork (score the rind every half 
inch), and press it down so that the top comes 
even with the top of the beans, and dust with 
black pepper. 



122 Catering tor XLwo. 

If the water has cooked away, add a little 
from boiling teakettle, just enough to cover. 
Bake another hour, uncovered, then cover 
closely and cook until night, but do not add any 
more water. 

Beans should cook continuously in a slow 
oven from ten in the morning until six at night : 
if cooked fast they will be too dry. 

When done, to be just right, the juice should 
show itself when the pot is tilted half-way up. 
The pork rind should be almost like jelly, and 
slightly browned, and every bean should be 
whole but soft. 

Serve in a deep dish and put the pork on a 
platter garnished with any seasonable greens. 

SPICED TOMATO SAUCE (HOT). 

Melt a lump of butter the size of a large nut- 
meg, and pour in one cupful of tomatoes, either 
fresh or canned. Add salt to taste ; a pinch of 
cayenne, a slice of onion, a dust of flour, and a 
pinch of ground cloves and cinnamon. Stew 
gently one hour, stirring often to prevent burn- 
ing, and keep the saucepan covered. 

Strain through a sieve which will keep back 
the seeds, and add a teaspoonful of vinegar 
if liked. 

This sauce is delicious poured over hashed 
meats which are served on toast. 



Catering tor Jlwo. T23 

CORN BREAD. 

Half an even cup of Graham flour, half an 
even cup of yellow corn-meal sifted, with one 
teaspoonful of baking-powder, half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and one teaspoonful of sugar. Add 
half a cup of suet and chop all together. Add 
one well-beaten eggy and one full cup of cold 
water ; beat the egg in the water. 

Pour into a greased pan or pudding-mould, 
set in a steamer, and steam one hour ; then bake 
in the oven half an hour. 

Half a pint of loppered milk may be used in- 
stead of the water, in which case half a level 
teaspoonful of baking-soda should take the 
place of the baking-powder ; this should be 
well beaten into the milk. 

Sour milk makes a much better corn bread 
than water, and may easily be secured by a 
little planning beforehand. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

Heat one cup of milk, add two rounded 
tablespoonfuls of yellow corn-meal, stir, and 
boil for three minutes, take from the fire, add 
one teaspoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of 
New Orleans molasses, one cup of cold milk, 
one well-beaten egg, a half-teaspoonful of 
ground ginger, a pinch of cloves and cinnamon, 
and a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. 

Bake in a very slow oven two hours. 



124 Catering tot tlwo. 

To be right, the pudding should be like a solid 
custard floating in whey. 

Serve with a sauce of powdered sugar, three 
spoonfuls, stirred to a cream with one of 
creamed butter. 



XX. 

Oysters on the half-shell. 
Banquet-crackers. 

Roast pork. 

Boiled hominy. 

Baked apple-sauce. 

Bread and butter. Celery. 

Grapefruit. 

Chocolate pudding with Sea-foam cream. 

Tea or coflFee. 
Bonbons. 

ROAST RIB AND LOIN OF PORK. 
(THREE POUNDS.) 

Always buy young pork, as it is sweeter and 
more tender. 

Put meat on a rack in a roasting-pot ; an 
agate kettle with a close-fitting cover will 
answer. 

Dredge the pork liberally with flour, pour 
over a scant pint of boiling water, cover, and 
cook slowly an hour and a half. 

Take up the meat and put it in a dripping- 

125 



126 Catering tor ^wo. 

pan, ribs upward, and lay on it a stuffing made 
of one quart of stale bread crumbs steamed 
moist in a cup of water, and mixed thoroughly 
with a salt-spoon of salt, a half-teaspoonful of 
black pepper, and a dessert-spoonful of butter. 

Roast one hour in a hot oven, basting occa- 
sionally with the gravy in the roasting-pot 
(from which all grease has been skimmed.) 

Keep the gravy hot. Serve the meat on a 
platter garnished with any seasonable green. 
Thicken the gravy with one dessert-spoonful of 
flour blended with two of cold water, add salt 
to taste, a dust of cayenne, boil up, and serve. 

The second day the pork may be sliced and 
served cold with fried hominy. 

A succeeding meal may be prepared in this 
way : 

Free it from all fat and mince one cupful and 
warm up in a sauce made of a dessert-spoonful 
of butter, one of browned flour, and half a cup 
of boiling water, with salt and pepper. Serve 
on stale bread, toasted and dipped in salted 
boiling water. Butter the toast slightly after it 
is moistened. 

BOIIvED HOMINY. 

Put one cupful of hominy into three cupfuls 
of boiling water ; add half a teaspoonful of salt, 
stir until the hominy boils, then set on back of 
stove, closely covered, to simmer four or five 
hours : stir occasionally. Use the Universal pot. 



Catering for (Two. 127 

or an earthen one set upon a stand, so that the 
hominy will not bum. 

A double boiler is not so good, as hominy 
needs a closer action of the fire than it can get 
through water. 

BAKED-APPLE SAUCE. 

Peel, quarter, and core four Rhode Island 
Greening apples. Put them in an agate or 
earthern dish with four tablespoonfuls of granu- 
lated sugar and four of boiling water. 

Cover closely and bake in a moderate oven 
from one half to three quarters of an hour. 

If desired hot, dot the apples with small 
pieces of butter just before taking from the 
oven, leave the cover off, and bake a little longer. 
Serve in the baking-dish, with a napkin pinned 
around it. If to be served cold, pour carefully, 
when cool, into a glass dish, but do not break 
the fruit, as the pieces should retain their shape. 

CHOCOLATE JELLY. 

Mix two even teaspoonfuls of cocoa with one 
heaping tablespoonful of granulated sugar, and 
pour on slowly, stirring constantly, one cupful 
of boiling water. Boil one minute, and add 
four even teaspoonfuls of corn-starch mixed with 
one teaspoon ful of cold water, and one table- 
spoonful of rich cream and a pinch of salt. 
Boil and stir for seven or eight minutes. 



128 Catering tor tTwo* 

Take from the fire and add half a teaspoonful 
of extract of vanilla : pour into a shallow dish, 
and when cold spread Sea-foam cream on top. 

Serve ice cold. 



XXI. 

Broth. 

Lamb (browned in spiced sauce.) 

Saratoga potatoes. Onions. 
Dinner rolls. Lemon marmalade. 

Potato salad. 

Cream cheese. Biscuits. 

Tapioca cream. 

Tea or coflFee. Fruit. 

LAMB BROWNED IN SPICED SAUCE. 

Get a shank of mutton weighing about a 
pound. Trim oflF the dried outer skin, wipe 
carefully with a damp cloth, dredge all parts 
plentifully with flour, and dust with black pep- 
per. 

Lay the meat in an agate kettle, add a tiny 
piece of bay leaf, one clove, a pinch of cayenne, 
one thin slice of onion, and an inch piece of 
cinnamon stick, pour on a full cup of boiling 
water, and cook gently two hours, being careful 
that it does not bum. The water should all be 
cooked away by this time, only a spoonful or 

129 



I30 Catering tor ^wo* 

two of rich brown gravy remaining, and the 
meat should slip easily from the bones. 

Transfer the meat (do not use the bones) to 
a deep platter. 

Season with salt, and pour over a gravy made 
from the sediment in the baking-pan : a spoon- 
ful of wine or lemon juice may be added to 
this if desired. 

Pour into the pot in which the meat was 
cooked, a cupful and a half of boiling water, 
add the water which was drained from the 
onions, and cook gently ten or fifteen minutes. 
Add a little salt and a few sprigs of parsley, 
boil up and strain ; this makes the soup, and 
there should be about three fourths of a 
pint. 

Serve a thin slice of lemon with each portion. 

SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Slice in wafer-like slices, two medium-sized 
potatoes and let them soak for half an hour in 
a quart of salted water. 

Drain and dry with a cloth and fry in boiling- 
hot lard until they are a pale brown. Put 
in only a few at a time, and lay them when 
done on a sheet of brown paper, to absorb the 
grease ; serve hot. 

Saratoga potatoes may now be found at any 
first-class grocer's shop and these need only be 
warmed a few minutes in an open dish in the 
oven. 



Catering tot trvK^o. 131 

ONIONS BROWNED IN BUTTER. 

Slice two cupfuls of onions, add one fourth of 
a teaspoonful of salt and one cupful of boiling 
water. Cook, covered, until tender, then drain 
off the water (reserve this for the soup-pot), add 
one even tablespoonful of butter, and stir well 
after the butter is melted, and fry until a deli- 
cate brown. 

Do not stir again but move the spider about 
to prevent burning. 

Keep onions in cold water while paring, to 
prevent the eyes from smarting. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Beat the yolk of an egg with half a level tea- 
spoonful of flour, one third of a teaspoonful of 
salt, a pinch of sugar, and two pinches of 
cayenne pepper. 

Add two tablespoonfuls of boiling water and 
cook over the teakettle, stirring constantly, two 
minutes. 

Then remove, add one tablespoonful of cider 
vinegar, three tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, 
and either a tablespoonful of oil or melted but- 
ter with a few drops of onion juice. Beat well, 
and to two tablespoonfuls of this sauce add a 
half-cupful of mashed and seasoned potatoes. 

Beat for several minutes, and heap on a 
mound of spinach which has been cooked. 



132 Catering tot XLwo. 

drained, and seasoned. Pour the remainder of 
sauce over all. 

This may be eaten hot or cold. Water- 
cresses, celery, or cabbage, or any salad greens 
may be substituted for the spinach. 

RAISED BISCUIT OR DINNER ROLLS AND 

BREAD. 

Two heaping cups of flour sifted three times. 
Put in to an agate two-quart vessel having a fitted 
cover one even cupful of lukewarm water, a 
heaping teaspoon ful of sweet butter, one even 
teaspoonful of salt and one of sugar. 

Add to this one fourth of a cake of Fleisch- 
mannas compressed yeast, dissolved in one tea- 
spoonful of the water. 

Mix well and stir in the flour, using a stout 
spoon for the purpose and mixing thoroughly. 

Cover closely and let rise about five hours. 
At the end of this time the dough should be 
light and soft and nearly fill the dish. Turn 
out on a lightly floured board or pie pan and 
knead a few minutes, using not more than a 
teaspoonful of flour for the entire kneading. 

Put into a saucer another spoonful of flour, 
cut the dough into twenty pieces, roll each into 
a ball between the palms, dipping them in the 
flour in the saucer to prevent sticking. 

Put them in a greased pan which is two 
inches deep, and do not let the rolls touch at 



datcriitd tot Zv^o. 133 

any point. Cover closely with a high cover, or 
another pan, and let them rise about three hours. 

They should by that time have become as one, 
with slight depressions showing the dividing 
line, and they should also be moist to the touch. 
Bake in a hot oven fifteen minutes, wrap in a 
hot napkin, and serve. 

They may be heated for breakfast by putting 
them in the oven in a closely covered dish. 

If wanted for six o'clock dinner, begin opera- 
tions by nine in the morning. 

The temperature for raising should be from 
80° to 90°. 

Never set sponge on a hot surface ; the found- 
ation on which the pans rest should only be 
blood-warm ; the heat must come from radia- 
tion. 

Too much heat from any source will cause 
sponge to become thin and pasty, and the 
dough will lose all its elasticity. 

For bread, put into a three-quart basin two 
even cupfuls of lukewarm water, one heaping 
tablespoonfiil of sweet butter, one teaspoonful 
of sugar, and one heaping teaspoonful of salt. 

Melt half a yeast-cake in a spoonful of the water, 
add, and stir until all has been dissolved ; then 
stir in five cupfuls of flour, measured before sift- 
ing, and sifted three times. Stir very thoroughly, 
cover closely with a tin cover, and when the 
mass has risen to the top of the basin, turn on 
a lightly floured board and knead half an hour. 



134 



Catecina tor (Two. 



kneading in one scant half-cupful of flour. The 
dough should now be almost as elastic as a 
rubber ball. 

Put it back in the basin, cover, and let rise to 
double its bulk or a little more. Then knead 
again a minute, using not more than a teaspoon- 
ful of flour. 

Cut off" four little pieces, roll into balls, set to 
rise again, and when they have trebled in size, 
set in a steamer for half an hour ; they will 
keep several days in the bread-box and may be 
used for dumplings in meat stews. 

Cut the remainder of the dough into loaves 
of any desired size, fill pans one third full, cover, 
and raise until they have doubled in bulk, when 
bake in a moderate oven. 

Small individual loaves are best. 

Temperature and time for raising are the 
same as for biscuit. Kneading should be done 
with the "heel of the palm.'* 



TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Soak three tablespoon fuls of flake tapioca 
over night in half a cup of cold water. 

In the morning add one cup of rich milk and 
a large pinch of salt and cook half an hour in 
a double boiler, stirring frequently. 

Beat the yolk of one egg with two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, thin with a little of the hot milk, 
stir well, and add to the tapioca. 



Cateting tor Uwo. 135 

Whisk to a stiff froth the white of the egg, 
add this also, cook a minute, flavor with a half- 
teaspoonful of vanilla and a dust of nutmeg, and 
pour into a dish for the table. 

Serve ice cold. 

This dessert may be varied by adding to the 
top a few spoonfuls of whipped cream and serv- 
ing with it a teaspoonful of grape jelly to each 
plate. 



XXII. 

Pur^e of beans. 

Porter-house steak. 

Potato croquettes. 

Boiled beets. 

Onions baked in milk. 

Bread and butter. Tomato marmalade. 

Asparagus salad. 
Crackers. Cheese. 

Chocolate pudding. 

Tea or coflPee. Oranges. 

PUR^E OF BEANS. 

Soak over night a half-cupful of dried beans 
in a quart of cold water. 

In the morning throw awa5»^ the water, cover 
with a pint of fresh cold water, add a slice of 
lightly browned salt pork (but not the grease), 
a slice of onion, a quarter of a teaspoon ful of 
salt, and cook until the beans are mushy. 
Strain, add to the liquor a half-teaspoonful of 
butter rubbed with the same of flour, boil up, 

136 



Catering tot Zwo. 137 

and add enough boiling milk to make the soup 
of an agreeable consistency, with salt and pep- 
per to taste. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Mash two cupfuls of boiled potatoes and three 
tablespoon fuls of hot milk, in which is melted 
a tablespoonful of butter and a third of a tea- 
spoonful of salt. 

Whip to a cream with a fork, form into egg- 
shaped rolls, dip, when cold, into cracker-dust, 
then into beaten egg, and fry in a frying-basket 
in deep hot lard. 

Try first a small piece of bread to ascertain 
the amount of heat. If too hot the croquettes 
will bum ; if not hot enough they will soak fat, 
which renders them unfit to eat. 

If preferred, they may be browned in a spoon- 
ful of butter. 

BOILED BEETS. 

Select three beets of equal size, wash care- 
fully so as not to break the skins, and do not 
trim the stalks too closely, as they will bleed 
and lose their sweetness. Cook in a steamer, 
and when tender put into cold water long 
enough to enable you to slip the skins o£F. 

Serve hot, sliced, with butter, pepper, and 
salt, or heat two tablespoonfuls of cider vine- 



138 Catettng tot ;rwo* 

gar, add a tablespoonful of butter, with salt and 
pepper, and pour this dressing over them. 
Serve hot. 

While cooking, do not pierce the beets any 
oftener than is necessary ; the time for cooking 
will be from one to three hours, according to 
their age. 

ONIONS BAKED IN MILK. 

Peel and slice thin three cupfuls of white on- 
ions. Put in a deep earthen dislT, dredge with 
a tablespoonful of flour and a little pepper, dot 
with a lump of butter the size of half an egg, 
and pour on a capful of rich milk. 

Bake in a good oven half an hour, sprinkle 
on a half-teaspoonful of salt, and serve in the 
baking-dish. 

TOMATO MARMALADE. 

One quart of ripe tomatoes, skinned and 
sliced. Put on the stove, with half a cupful of 
cider vinegar, one third of a cup of sugar, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of mixed 
ground spices ; cook slowly, and stir often with 
a wooden spoon. 

When reduced to a little less than one half, 
it is done. 

Put away in tumblers covered with brandied 
paper. Canned tomatoes may be used, but are 
not so good. 



Catering tor TTvpo. 139 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

Lay one dozen asparagus iitalks, boiled in 
salted water, on a salad dish, and serve with a 
simple French dressing of vinegar, oil, salt, 
and pepper. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Heat one and one quarter cups of rich milk 
with half a square of chocolate, stirring con- 
stantly until the chocolate is dissolved; then 
add two rounded tablespoon fuls of corn-starch 
mixed with a quarter of a cup of cold milk. Let 
this boil for ten minutes in a saucepan of boil- 
ing water ; then add the yolk of an egg beaten 
with one tablespoonful of sugar and a pinch of 
salt. 

Beat well, cook one minute, flavor with half 
a teaspoonful of vanilla, turn into a mould, and 
serve ice cold with the following sauce : 

Froth the white of the egg, and whip it into 
half a cup of boiling milk, sweetened with a 
tablespoonful of sugar, add a few grains of salt, 
and flavor with half a teaspoonful of vanilla 
and a dust of nutmeg. Set on ice. 



XXIII. 

Clam chowder. 

Salad of cold meat. 
Cream cheese. Crackers. 

Blackberry padding. 

Tea or coffee. Cream nut candies. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 
(One dozen clams.) 

Peel and slice very thinly a cupful of raw po- 
tatoes ; add a thinly sliced, medium-sized onion, 
and a cupful of boiling water, with atablespoon- 
ful of fried salt pork (without the grease), and 
boil gently until the vegetables are tender ; 
then add a half-cupful of stewed tomatoes. 

When this boils, add the strained clam juice 
(there should be about a cupful), and skim, 
after boiling up. Now stir in a tablespoon ful 
of butter, blended with half a teaspoonful of 
flour. 

Boil a few minutes, and add the clams, 
chopped very fine in the chopping-bowl, or 
meat-grinder. 

140 



Catering tot (Two. 141 

Allow the chowder to come quickly to a boil, 
and remove from the fire immediately. 

Simmering or long boiling will make clams 
tough and indigestible. Pour into a hot tureen, 
and set in the oven until wanted. 

COLD MEAT SALAD. 

Any cold meat of the white kind, such as veal, 
lamb, or poultry ; cut a cupful into small pieces 
without the fat, add salt and pepper, and mix 
with the same amount of celery, cut up, or 
watercresses. 

Heap upon lettuce leaves ; the large outside 
leaves will answer. Pour on a salad dressing 
of any preferred kind, and serve ice cold. 

The crisp inner parts of white cabbage may 
be used if other greens are not obtainable. 

The following dressing may be used : 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Stir the yolk of an egg with two tablespoon- 
fuls of either olive-oil or melted butter; add 
one tablespoonful of vinegar in which has been 
dissolved a salt-spoonful of salt, a small pinch 
of cayenne, and a large pinch of mustard. 

BLACKBERRY PUDDING. 

Take half a cupful of flour and mix with it 
half a teaspoonfiil of baking-powder and a large 



142 



Catering tor (Two* 



pinch of salt. Sift several times. Cut into this, 
with a knife, an even dessert-spoonful of butter 
and add one fourth of a cup of milk. The mix- 
ture should be quite soft. 

With a spoon spread it on the bottom of a 
baking-dish or cake-mold, cover the paste with 
a thick layer of blackberries, and'steam half an 
hour in a steamer, or bake in the oven with a 
cover over the dish. Serve with sugar and 
cream, or with a creamy hard sauce. 

Cherries or huckleberries, apples or peaches, 
may be used in the same way. 



XXIV. 

Clam soup. 

Round steak with onions. 

Yellow turnips and potatoes mashed together. 

Baked Hubbard squash. 

Celery. 
Sweet-clover cheese. Crackers. 

Steamed pudding with oranges or canned or 

stewed fruit. 

Tea or coffee. Chocolate creams. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Drain the juice from a dozen clams and put it 
on the stove to scald. If soft-shell clams are 
nsed, first wash them thoroughly in their own 
liquor, with the addition of a half-cup of cold 
water, and strain through cheese-cloth. Chop 
the clams very fine and add to the juice when it 
reaches the boiling-point : boil up quickly once 
and immediately remove to a part of the stove 
where they will merely keep hot The longer 
clams boil, the tougher and more indigestible 

143 



144 Catering tor (Two* 

they become. Do not even allow them to sim- 
mer after the first quick boil. 

In another saucepan put two cupfuls of rich 
milk (skimmed milk will never produce the best 
results), and when it boils add a tablespoonful 
of butter blended with an even teaspoonful of 
flour, and a small pinch of cayenne pepper. Boil 
a moment and set where it will keep hot, but 
not cook. 

When ready to serve, pour the clams into the 
milk, stir and serve immediately in hot soup 
plates with any preferred crackers. 

BEEFSTEAK AND ONIONS (FRIED). 

Round steak is usually preferred for this dish. 
Cut off a piece measuring about five inches 
square. Pound to a jelly with a hammer on a 
meat-block or old pie tin. 

Slice four medium-sized onions after peeling, 
put them into a frying-pan with a cup of boiling 
water, and stew until the water is all gone ; do 
not stir. 

Then add a little salt and pepper, and a heap- 
ing tablespoonful of butter, and fry until the 
onions are a fine brown. 

Fry the steak in a hot frying pan, and do not 
salt until it is on the platter. Then add salt and 
butter, pile the onions on top and serve immedi- 
ately. 



Catetltid tor (Two* 145 

POTATOES AND TURNIPS MASHED TO- 
GETHER. 

Wash, peel, and slice in inch-thick slices, 
enough yellow (Rutabaga) turnips to fill a pint 
bowl. Cover with boiling water, and cook 
rapidly thirty or forty minutes. When tender, 
drain and mash fine ; pass through the potato- 
press, or mash fine a pint bowl of hot boiled 
potatoes and add to the turnips, season with 
a teaspoonful of salt, beat well together and 
heap in a dish, smoothing the top over with a 
knife-blade. 

Make a long deep trench, on top of which 
put a lump of butter the size of a small egg. 

Set in a hot oven until wanted. 

Next day, slice, dredge with flour, and fry in 
salt-pork drippings or butter. 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Cut a slice four inches thick from a fine 
Hubbard squash. 

Remove the seeds, place on a baking-dish, 
cover closely, and bake in a hot oven for an 
hour, or until soft. 

Then scrape squash from the rind, mash» 
season with a spoonful of butter, salt and 
pepper to taste, pile on a vegetable-dish, 
and keep hot in the oven until wanted ; or 
send to the table on a platter, just as it comes 



TO 



146 Catetittd for XLv^o. 

from the oven, in which case each person will 
season his own portion. 

STEAMED PUDDING WITH ORANGES. 

Sift three times, one even half-cupful of flour, 
with one half rounded teaspoon fal of baking- 
powder and one third even teaspoonful of salt. 

Cut into this one heaping teaspoonful of 
ice-cold butter with a knife. Add three heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls of cold milk, stir together 
lightly and quickly, using a spoon for the pur- 
pose, put into a buttered mold or bowl and set 
in a steamer for half on hour. When done, 
turn into a shallow pudding-dish and serve 
with the following sauce : Cook for ten min- 
utes one half cupful of boiling water, a few 
grains of salt, and two heaping tablespoonfuls 
of granulated sugar. Then add a half-teas- 
poonful of corn-starch, wet with one spoonful 
of cold water, cook and add a teaspoonful of 
caramel and a fine orange which has been 
peeled and cut into pieces the size of nutmegs. 
When this is thoroughly hot, but not boiling, 
pour over the pudding. 

Pass with this pudding, a hard sauce made 
of one tablespoonful of butter stirred to a cream, 
the half of a raw egg yolk, and half a cupful of 
confectioner's sugar, beaten together until very 
light. Flavor with a pinch of grated orange- 
rind. 



Catering tot tlwo. 147 

If canned cherries or fruit are used instead 
of oranges, heat them for a few minutes and 
add more sugar to the juice. 

Only the egg sauce will be needed with can- 
ned or stewed fruit. 

AFTER-DINNER COFFEE. 

Mix two dessert-spoonfuls of coffee ground 
moderately fine with a scant teaspoonful of 
raw egg and two dessert-spoonfuls of cold 
water. 

Pour on this two thirds of a cup of boiling 
water, stir, cover closely, and let it boil up ; 
then remove from the fire immediately. 

Let it stand, to settle, a few minutes, and strain 
into a hot coffee-pot through a wet cheese-cloth 
laid on a wire strainer. 

In this way the last drop of coffee will be 
perfectly clear. 



XXV. 

Raw oysters or clams. 

Fresh ham. Savory stuffing. 

Apple sauce (hot or cold). 

Breaded turnips. 

Baked sweet potatoes. 

Green tomato chili sauce. 

French bread. Butter. 

Celery or any salad of the chicory family. 
Roquefort cheese on brown-bread fingers. 

Princess cream, or pineapple with floating 

island. 
Wafers, or sponge cake. 

Tea or co£Fee. California grapes. 



Alternative : Roast duck. Onion stuffing. 

Potato balls (baked). 

Spiced peaches. 

Corn-starch pudding, or chocolate jelly with 

custard. 

FRESH HAM. 
Order a small fresh pig ham. Have one third 

148 



Catetlttd tot Zv^o. 149 

of it sliced off from the large end for frying 
(this may be left in the butcher's ice-chest until 
needed) ; the remaining part should be boned 
and trimmed for roasting. 

Put a quart of bread-crumbs a little stale in 
a bowl, pour over enough boiling water to 
make a pliable paste, stir in a tablespoon ful of 
thyme, a teaspoonful of salt, a half-teaspoonful 
of black pepper, one pinch of red pepper, and 
a rounded dessert-spoonful of butter. Work 
this into a mass, and stuff the ham with it. 
Dredge thoroughly with flour, pepper liberally, 
and set on a meat-rack in a dripping-pan. 

The oven should be quite hot for the first 
hour. At the end of this time pour a cup of 
boiling water in the pan, and moderate the fire. 
Bake three hours slowly. 

Salt the meat, and if it is not brown, quicken 
the fire with kindlings, and set in the oven for 
fifteen minutes longer. Make the gravy by 
blending a tablespoonful of flour with two 
tablespoonfuls of cold water ; pour in a cupful 
of boiling water and add to the dripping-pan. 
Salt to taste, boil up, skim off the fat and serve 
in a gravy-boat. 

For succeeding meals serve the ham sliced 
cold with hot gravy. 

BREADED TURNIPS. 
Peel and boil until tender one large white 



ISO Catering tor XLwo. 

turnip. When cold, slice in four slices, bread 
with saltine cracker dust, and brown in a half- 
teaspoonful of butter in a frying-pan. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Brush clean two or three sweet potatoes of 
one size, and bake in a moderate oven, from an 
hour to an hour and a half, according to the 
size of the potatoes and the heat of the oven. 
When done they should feel soft and yielding 
when pressed with the fingers. Try them occa- 
sionally while cooking with a fork. 

Any that are left over may be peeled, sliced, 
and broiled ; butter and salt them as soon as 
they leave the gridiron. 

They may also be browned in the oven by 
brushing with butter and sprinkling with sugar. 

GREEN TOMATO CHILI SAUCE. 

One quart of sliced green tomatoes, one pint 
of sliced white onions, two chopped green pep- 
pers, one heaping tablespoonful of salt ; mix 
all together and set away in an earthen dish over- 
night. 

Next morning drain thoroughly, chop into 
peas, pour over one pint of cider vinegar, add 
one teaspoonful of mixed ground spice (cinna- 
mon, cloves, allspice, and nutmeg), one table- 
spoonful of brown sugar, and cook slowly for 
twenty minutes. 



Catetlnd tot ^wo« 151 

Add a red-pepper pod to the sauce, and let it 
remain until peppery enough. Add more salt 
if needed. Keep in a cool place in a stone jar, 
tightly covered. A few mustard seeds may be 
added, also chopped celery and grated horse- 
radish if liked. 

PRINCESS CREAM. ^ 

Soak for half an hour one rounded table- 
spoonful of gelatine and a pinch of salt in four 
tablespoonfuls of rich milk. Beat the yolk of 
one egg with two tablespoonfuls of granulated 
sugar and a tiny pinch of salt until creamy, 
and add one cupful of boiling milk. 

Set this in another saucepan containing boil- 
ing water, and boil and stir four minutes. 

Now add the gelatine, cook (stirring) for one 
minute, take from the fire, and whip in the 
white of the egg, which has been beaten to a 
stiff froth. 

Flavor with three fourths of a teaspoonful of 
vanilla, or, if preferred, a little sherry. 

Pour into a glass dish, and serve ice cold with 
cake or wafers. 

Princess cream should be made the day be- 
fore it is to be used, in summer, and kept on 
ice until wanted. 

In cold weather it may be made in the morn- 
ing if it is to be used at a late dinner. 

Spread the Sea-foam cream over the top, 



152 Catetitid tor XLwo. 

delicately flavored with caramel, wine, or 
coffee. 
Serve with caramel cream sauce. 

PINEAPPLE WITH FLOATING ISLAND. 

Peel and remove the eyes from a fine ripe 
pineapple. Tear shreds from it with a fork 
and throw away the core. Sugar to taste, and 
serve ice cold, with floating island in separate 
dishes or on the same plates, as preferred. 

In the opinion of many cooks, pineapples are 
more delicious and also more healthful if 
allowed to lie covered in wine, several hours be- 
fore serving. 

Bananas may be sliced and served with the 
floating island instead of pineapple ; sugar to 
taste, pour orange juice over them, and serve 
ice cold. 

The floating island must also be as cold as 
possible. 

DUCK, ROASTED (THREE POUNDS). 
ONION STUFFING. 

Rinse the duck quickly in cold water, wipe, 
and stuff with a quart of bread-crumbs moistened 
with one cup of water, and the following season- 
ing : one half a teaspoon ful of pepper, two tea- 
spoonfuls of thyme, a half- teaspoon ful of salt, 
one heaping teaspoonful of butter, one table- 
spoonful of chopped fat salt pork, and one 



Catering for Xlwo. 153 

small onion finely minced. Sew up with coarse 
thread, pepper, salt, and dredge with Hour, and 
roast two hours (covered) in a moderate oven. 

The duck should be placed on a meat-rack, 
and a cup of boiling water must be poured in 
the pan when it goes in the oven. 

Stew the giblets in a cupful of boiling water, 
chop, add salt, a teaspoonful of flour, stir in the 
water they were cooked in, and add to the 
gravy in the roasting-pan . 

POTATO BAIvI^ (BAKED). 

Take mashed potatoes seasoned for the table, 
form into egg-shaped rolls, and brown in a hot 
oven on a buttered tin. 

These make an attractive border for a platter 
of meat. 

BAKED CORN-STARCH LEMON ME- 
RINGUE PUDDING. 

Heat one cupful of milk, and when at the boil- 
ing point stir in an even tablespoonful of corn- 
starch blended with a teaspoonful of best 
butter; cook one minute, stirring constantly, 
and add the yolk of one egg beaten with two 
tablespoon fuls of granulated sugar, the grated 
rind of a quarter and the juice of half a lemon, 
and a pinch of salt. 

Pour this mixture into an earthen baking- 
dish and bake twenty minutes. 



154 Catering tor Jl\^o. 

Take from the oven, add the white of the egg 
whisked to a sti£f froth, to which has been 
added, after frothing, three tablespoonfrils of 
sngar and a tiny pinch of salt. Brown deli- 
cately in the oven and serve cold. 

CHOCOLATE JELLY WITH CUSTARD. 

Soak, then melt, four heaping teaspoonfrils 
of gelatine in two tablespoonfuls of cold water. 

Add one capful of boiling water, two pinches 
of salt, and two rounded tablespoonfuls of gran- 
ulated sugar. 

Melt in a double boiler one square of choco- 
late, then add two tablespoonfuls of boiling 
water, stir and cook until thick (time, about a 
quarter of a minute). 

Now add very gradually, stirring constantly, 
half a cupful of boiling water, and when per- 
fectly smooth, take from the fire ; when cool, 
stir in the cooled gelatine, set in a pan of ice- 
water, and stir from the bottom and sides until 
thick enough to prevent the chocolate from 
settling. 

Pour into a mould, set on ice, and when 
solid, serve with a custard made in the follow- 
ing way : 

Beat the yolks of two eggs with two table- 
spoonfuls of granulated sugar and a pinch of 
salt ; add one cupful of boiling milk and cook 
in the double boiler five minutes (longer cook- 



Catering tot XTwo. 155 

ing may curdle the mixture). Add half a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, or a spoonful of brandy or 
cordial, or any flavoring preferred. (I^emon, 
rose, or almond does not blend well with choco- 
late.) 

Use the whites of the eggs in the following 
for another meal. 

BAKED APPLES WITH MERINGUE. 

Peel six Greening or Baldwin apples, core, 
fill with sugar, cover, and bake in a hot oven. 
When nearly done, remove the cover, brown 
and pile upon each apple a spoonful of frothed 
white of eggs beaten with one cup of sugar. 
Return to the oven and brown lightl}'. 

Serve very cold. 



XXVI. 

Consomm^ with green peas. 

Ham, baked, with or without tomatoes. 

Hashed or stewed potatoes. Cream gravy. 

Fried cabbage. Fried apples. 

Hot biscuits with butter. 

Olives. 

String-bean salad. 
Cream cheese. Biscuits. 

Rice pudding, baked, 

or 

Baked apples, cream and sugar, 

or 
Sultana pudding. 

Chocolate, tea, or coflfee. Fruit. 

CONSOMM^ WITH GREEN PEAS. 

Heat one and one half cupfuls of stock sea- 
soned with onions, carrots, and the savory soup 
herbs. Add a tablespoon ful of cooked peas, 
and two lengths of spaghetti broken into inch 
pieces. 

Any other diced or small vegetable may be 
substituted for the peas. 

156 



date ting tor Hwo* 157 

BAKED SMOKED HAM. 

One slice of ham one inch thick. 

When found too salt ham may be made very 
palatable by soaking for an hour in a cupful of 
sweet milk. Cut off the rind and put the ham 
in an earthen pudding-dish which is just large 
enough to hold it without folding. Sprinkle 
over it an even teaspoonful of granulated sugar, 
a dust of pepper, and a teaspoonful of flour. 
Cover closely and bake in a slow oven two 
hours ; then add the cupful of milk in which it 
was soaked, unless the milk has curdled, in 
which case substitute fresh, boil up once, and 
serve in the dish it was baked in or on a deep 
platter. 

Ham baked with tomatoes, either fresh or 
canned, is a most appetizing dish, the acid of 
the tomato and the salt of the ham blending 
most agreeably. 

After freshening, sugaring, and dredging with 
flour, place on top of the slice of ham a large 
tomato, skinned and sliced. 

Dredge this also with flour and pepper, and 
bake. A spoonful of butter may be added if 
the ham is not very fat ; the fatter the ham the 
sweeter and more tender it will be. Do not use 
the milk in which the ham was freshened, with 
tomatoes. 



158 Catering toe tTwo* 

HASHED OR STEWED POTATOES. 
CREAM GRAVY. 

Slice very thin a heaping cupful of cold baked 
potatoes ; dredge with a teaspoonful of flour, a 
third of a teaspoonful of salt, and a dust of 
pepper. 

Put a heaping teaspoonful of butter in a sauce- 
pan with a half-cupful of milk, and when hot, 
add the potatoes, stir once, and cook covered, 
about eight minutes, without further stirring ; 
the slices should lie lightly in the gravy and be 
unbroken. 

Water will not take the place of milk, which 
must be fresh and rich. If milk is not at hand, 
fry the potatoes in a little butter. 

FRIED CABBAGE. 

Cut into shavings enough cabbage to fill a 
quart measure ; sprinkle with an even half-tea- 
spoonful of salt, pour on two cups of boiling 
water, and cook rapidly until the cabbage be- 
comes dry. Then add a tablespoonful of butter, 
two of milk, dust with pepper, and fry brown. 
Serve hot. 

FRIED APPIyES. 

Slice two large Greening apples with a 
teaspoonful of melted butter. Pour over a des- 
sertspoonful of water, and two heaping table- 



Cateting tor XLv^o. 159 

s|>ootifals of sugar. Put dots of butter all over 
the top (a piece as large as a pea every two 
inches apart), cover closely, and fry gently with- 
out stirring until the bottom of the apples is 
a rich brown. 

If cooked too fast they will burn and be bit- 
ter ; twenty minutes or half an hour slow cook- 
ing will be about right. Cook in an earthen 
dish or agate pie plate. 

BAKING-POWDER BISCUITS. 

One cupful of flour sifted with one teaspoon- 
ful of baking-powder and one fourth of a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Cut into this one heaping 
tablespoonful of butter and add a half-cupful of 
milk. Dredge with flour, cut into small pieces, 
pat each one into a ball, flatten lightly and lay 
them in a greased pan as close together as possi- 
ble, and bake at once in a hot oven ; fifteen 
minutes will be about the right time. This is 
the rule for pot-pies and stew-pies, although 
less shortening is required for these. 

Pot-pies are made of meat, stew-pies of fruit. 
The dough is steamed on top of the meat (or 
fruit) instead of being baked as for biscuits. 
Time, about ten minutes. This dough is also 
called crust or dumplings. For pot-pie it is put 
in after the meat is done. 

For stew-pies, put the fruit in a kettle with 
sugar and a dust of flour with a few spoonfuls 



i6o Catering tor (Two. 

of water, lay the crust, made into little walnut- 
shaped balls, on top ; cover the pot closely, and 
as soon as boiling begins, count the time. 

Remember it is the steam which cooks dump- 
lings ; if the dough is submerged in the juices 
or gravy it will be soggy. 

In serving, use plenty of gravy, and make an 
extra sauce for the stew-pies. 

One half of the rule is enough for two persons. 
Suet makes a delicious shortening, using a little 
more salt, and ice-water instead of milk. 

STRING-BEAN SALAD. 

Wash a dozen fresh, crisp string-beans, and 
steam in a steamer until tender. 

Pull off the strings, salt, and serve them 
whole, on a lettuce leaf. 

Garnish with a raw tomato sliced. 

Use any dressing preferred. 

RICE PUDDING (BAKED). 

Stir into a pint of rich, fresh milk two heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, a salt- 
spoonful of salt, and one tablespoonful of rice. 
Flavor with lemon rind, grated from a quarter 
of a lemon, and nutmeg. 

Bake in an earthen dish in a very slow oven 
three hours. Keep the dish covered until the 
last twenty minutes. 



i 



daterind tor Cwo. i6i 

Serve very cold. 

Add more salt, if needed, before baking. 

BAKED APPLES WITH CREAM. 

Wipe carefully four Greening apples of equal 
size. Baldwins or Spitzenbergs will answer, but 
Greenings are best. 

Remove the cores from the blossom end, 
making a little well in each ; use an apple-corer 
or a broad knife rounded at the end of the blade. 

Place the apples in a deep earthen pie dish, 
and put a heaping tablespoonful of granulated 
sugar in each apple with an extra spoonful over 
all. 

Pour on the bottom of the dish a half-cup of 
boiling water, set in a moderate oven, and bake 
from an hour to an hour and a half, according 
to the size of the apples and the heat of the 
oven. 

When done, place them carefully in the dish 
they are to be served in, and when cold pour 
over them the jelly that exuded while baking. 
Do not make the mistake of not eating the 
skins. If the apples have been cooked slowly 
enough, the skins will be deliciously tender 
and rich. 

Serve with cream and powdered sugar. 

SULTANA PUDDING 
One cupful of flour, one teaspoon baking- 



i62 Catering toe XLvoo. 

powder, one third of a teaspoon salt, one cupfiil 
Sultana raisins, one half-cupful rich milk, one 
tablespoonful sugar, yolk of one egg. 

Sift flour, salt, and baking-powder together 
several times, and stir in the raisins, which have 
been picked over, rinsed, and dried in the oven. 

Stir egg and milk together, add sugar, and 
then the flour, etc. 

Steam for an hour in a buttered mould ; cover 
the steamer, but leave the mould open. Serve 
with a sauce made of one cupful of confection- 
er's sugar, a scant half-cupful of butter, and 
brandy to taste. Add the frothed white of the 
egg, and beat about ten minutes. 

CHOCOI.ATB. 

Put one cupful of rich milk into a saucepan, 
add one third of a square of chocolate, and cook, 
stirring constantly (using a wooden or silver 
spoon), until the chocolate is all dissolved. 

Use a double kettle, or a saucepan set in an- 
other of boiling water. Chocolate should never 
be grated, but put into cold milk in large pieces ; 
grating results in loss of oil and flavor. One 
and one half squares will make a quart. 

Do not use any water. 

A spoonful of whipped cream added to each 
cup when serving is an elegant addition. 

Sweeten to taste. 



XXVII. 

Corn soup. 

Pot-roast (under-round or cross-rib). 

Fried potatoes. Stewed tomatoes. 

Bread and butter. 

Olives. Grape or crab-apple jelly. 

Lettuce or cauliflower. Hollandaise sauce. 

Cream cheese. Brown-bread Angers. 

Huckleberry or squash pie, or banana pudding 

meringue. 

Tea or coffee. Fruit. 



Alternative : Broiled chicken or porter-house 

steak (broiled). 

Charlotte russe or queen's pudding. 

CORN SOUP. 

Chop, or grate, a cupful of com, add a slice 
of onion, a dessert-spoonful of butter, and an 
even teaspoonful of flour. Boil these in a pint 
of milk ten minutes, and then pour it upon an 
egg lightly beaten, stirring briskly. Add salt 
and pepper to taste, and strain back into the 

163 



i64 Caterina tot Zxqo. 

saucepan ; boil up once, take from the fire im- 
mediately, or the egg will curdle, and serve 
with small oyster-crackers. 

POT-ROAST. 
(Under-round or cross-rib, two pounds.) 

Trim the meat free of all dried skin and dried 
fat, and brown all sides in a hot spider ; then 
put it in an agate-ware pot, pour on one cupful 
of boiling water, cover closely, and boil for a 
minute ; turn the meat, and boil the other side. 
This is necessary, in order to seal up the rich 
juices of the meat, which would otherwise drip 
out into the gravy, leaving the meat dry and 
tasteless. Remove the meat to a platter, put in 
the pot a meat-rack tall enough to have its upper 
side at least two inches above the surface of the 
water, to prevent the meat from coming in con- 
tact with the water when it boils. 

Dredge the meat £dl over with flour, dust on 
black pepper, place it on the rack, cover the 
pot closely, and cook gently, but steadily, three 
hours, adding more water occasionally from the 
boiling-kettle if it cooks away. 

Always try to keep the original amount of 
water (one cupful). 

Three or four pepper-corns may be added. 

At the end of two and a half hours, add a 
half-teaspoonful of salt, sprinkling it over the 
meat, and a tablespoonful of parsley. 



Catering tot Uvco. 165 

Remove the rack, and stir into the gravy a 
dessert-spoonful of flour blended with a few 
spoonfuls of cold water, and salt to taste. Re- 
cover the pot, and resume the cooking, only 
simmering gently for this last half-hour. Serve 
the meat on a warm platter, garnished with 
parsley or celery, and put the gravy in a sauce- 
boat. If fat is desired, fry delicately a piece of 
suet, and place beside the meat. 

For a second meal, cook two lamb's kidneys 
(chopped) in a cupful of water, with one sliced 
onion, a tablespoonful of fried, diced, salt pork, 
a pinch of cayenne, salt to taste, and flour to 
thicken. Add the pot-roast, and boil up. 

Pass cold spiced tomato sauce. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Heat very hot a tablespoonful of drippings 
from salt pork, or the same amount of butter, 
being careful not to let them burn. Slice two 
medium-sized potatoes (baked or boiled) in 
quarter inch slices, and fry a rich brown, un- 
covered. If the pan is covered the potatoes 
will be flabby instead of crisp. 

Afler dishing, sprinkle with salt and pepper 
and serve immediately. If preferred the pota- 
toes may be broiled. 

Spread each side of the sliced with butter, and 
broil over a clear hot fire ; s^ison with salt and 
pepper and an extra lumpof butter before serving. 



i66 Caterina for ^wo. 

CAULIFLOWER, HOLLANDAISB OR 
CRBAM SAUCE. 

Cut a fourth of a medium-sized cauliflower in 
four parts, salt, and steam, until tender, in a 
steamer, or wrap in a napkin and boil in a quart 
of boiling water (salted) twenty minutes. 

Serve with Hollandaise sauce, or make a 
cream sauce of a tablespoonful of butter blended 
with a teaspoon ful of flour and cooked with a 
half- cup of boiling milk. 

Add a pinch of salt and a dust of pepper. 

Pour the cream over the cauliflower and lay 
a slice of lemon on each piece. 

Fine white cabbage may be boiled and served 
the same way. 

Serve as a separate course with brown bread 
cut in finger-lengths. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Cut in half, scrape out the seeds, and peel one 
part of a Hubbard squash. 

Steam until tender in a steamer, or boil in 
salted water. 

Mash fine ; a heaping cupful will make the 
pie. Put the rest away for other pies, or to use 
as a vegetable ; it will keep several days in a 
cold place in cool weather. 

Line a pie dish with pie-crust and bake as di- 
rected for other pies, while beating the yolk of 
an egg with four tablespoonfuls of granulated 



Catering tor ITwo. 167 

sugar, a half-teaspooaful of ground ginger, a 
half-teaspoonful of salt, and two thirds of a cup 
of hot milk poured on slowly, stirring all the 
time. Add a heaping teaspoonful of butter and 
a heaping cup of the hot mashed squash, a half- 
teaspoonful of flour, and a little grated nutmeg. 
Beat all together, and add the white of the egg 
beaten to a stiflf froth. Beat thoroughly, pour 
into the pie pan, sprinkle with a teaspoonful 
of sugar, and bake in a quick oven ten ov fifteen 
minutes. 

HUCKLEBERRY PIE. 

Use two large, deep saucers, as these will hold 
plenty of juice. Putin each one a cupful of 
huckleberries which have been looked over and 
washed. 

Sprinkle with a tablespoonful of sugar, and 
the same of water, and cover with a flaky crust 
a little smaller than the top of the saucer ; bake 
twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

Heat, mash, and strain through a coarse cloth 
wrung out of cold water, either a cupful of ripe 
currants or blackberries, and mix with this juice 
nearly a cupful of sugar, into which has been 
stirred a teaspoonful of flour. Cook a minute, 
and when the pies come from the oven, raise 
the crust and pour this juice over the huckle- 
berries. 

Replace the crust and serve either hot or cold. 



i68 Caterittd tor tTwo. 

BANANA PUDDING MERINGUE. 

Beat the yolk of one egg with two tablespoon- 
fals of sugar and a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
salt ; add the juice of half a tart orange and a 
cupful of milk, and pour this over a cupful of 
bread-crumbs (two or three days old) and one 
banana sliced and laid in alternate layers in a 
deep earthen pudding-dish. Bake twenty min- 
utes in a hot oven. 

Whisk the white of the egg to a stiff froth, 
add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and after 
beating well, add the juice from the remainder 
of the o'range and a pinch of grated rind ; 
spread this upon the pudding and brown in the 
oven a few minutes. 

BROILED CHICKEN. 

Order a plump young chicken split for broil- 
ing. Wipe with a towel, and brush all over 
inside and out with melted butter or olive oil. 
Lay it on a broiler over a slow fire and broil 
twenty minutes, turning often to prevent burn- 
ing. 

Cook the inside first, to seal up the juices. 

Lay, now, on a small rack (skin side down) in 
a spider which contains a large spoonful of but- 
ter and a half-cup of hot water ; cover closely 
and simmer twenty minutes to a half-hour, or 
bake in the oven for the same length of time. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, add a little pars- 



Catering for Zvoo. 169 

ley, and pour over any juice or butter left in 
the spider. 

If the chicken is not tender, simmer longer, 
with the addition of a little water, if it boils 
away. Any left over may be re-heated on the 
broiler. 

PORTER-HOUSE STEAK (BROILED). 

A medium-sized porter-house steak one and 
a quarter inches in thickness will make three 
meals for two moderate eaters, two broils and 
a hash. 

Lay the steak on the meat-board, and with a 
sharp knife trim off the outer edge of the fat, 
which is always bitter from long contact with 
the air. Do not take off more than is necessary, 
as steak without a supply of fat is not delicious. 
Broil a piece of suet extra if it lacks a suffi- 
cient quantity. 

Cut off the long coarse end, and remove the 
bone. Divide the remainder into two even 
portions, and put away one for another meal. 

Broil the piece that is left, using a wire broiler 
in which the wires are about a third of an inch 
apart. 

If a heavy iron broiler is used, it must be 
thoroughly heated before the meat goes on it. 
Have the fire a glowing, but not a fierce bed of 
coals. A fierce fire burns and hardens the 
meat before it is cooked through. 



lyo Catering tot (Two. 

Do not use the broiler door with which most 
ranges are supplied, but remove the lid from 
the hottest place of the range and set the steak 
here to broil. 

To keep the smoke from entering the house, 
open all the draughts, and put a tin cover over 
the broiler; every time the steak is turned 
with one hand, the cover is lifted with the 
other. 

Broiled meats should be seared immediately 
to keep in the juices. 

Count at first one hundred for each side ; 
if the fire is very hot, fifty counts wiU be 
enough to begin on ; then turn every ten 
counts, until four hundred have been counted. 
A steak an inch thick will most likely be done 
by this time, but to be certain open the broiler, 
and cut into the meat with a sharp knife ; if 
not done enough, broil a few turns longer. 

To be properly cooked it should be brown 
without, pink inside, and the gravy which runs 
from the cut should be red. 

Have the platter warmed but not hot, sprinkle 
the steak with salt, and add butter the size of 
a walnut. 

The steak is the last thing to be cooked for 
the meal, and everything else should be ready 
before beginning to broil it. 

Serve immediately. 

Here are several ways of treating the coarse 
end for little breakfast dishes. 



Catering tot (Two. 171 

Reduced to a pulp by passing it through a 
meat-grinder (or chopped in the chopping- 
bowl) it may then be made into a round flat 
cake and broiled the same as the steak, or 
fried and served with fried onions. 

If broiled, serve with two slices of salt pork 
fried a delicate brown, and potatoes sliced and 
browned in the grease from the pork. 

Put the meat in the centre of a platter and 
arrange the potatoes around it with slices of 
lemon as a garnish. 

Another way is to fry it (the coarse end) in a 
small closely covered vessel until it is so tender 
that it can be cut without tearing. This will 
take from an hour to an hour and a half. Turn 
frequently and fry slowly. The edge of fat 
surrounding it will furnish enough grease for 
frying. 

When cold, trim oflf the fat and throw it 
away ; chop the meat fine, dredge with flour, 
add salt and pepper, and warm up with a few 
spoonfuls of milk or water, and a teaspoonful 
of butter. 

Place upon toasted bread dipped in boiling, 
salted water, and then buttered. Pour over 
all hot spiced tomato sauce or sauce espagnole, 
and serve with fried potatoes. Ends of lamb 
chops may be cooked in the same way. An- 
other way is to put the bone into water and 
boil until the scraps of meat and gristle drop 
away, then remove the bone, add a table- 



172 aatecinfl lot ttwo. 

spoosrul of browned salt pork without the 
grease, an inch of carrot, a slice of onion, and 
the coarse end of the steak. 

Cook gentJy about two honrs, keeping the 
meat barely covered with water. Then remove 
the vegetables, add salt to taste, and whea 
cold take off the fat. Chop with one third as 
much cold potato, dredge with flout, and warm 
up with gravy in which the meat was cooked. 
This is a delicious hash. 

SPICED TOMATO SAUCE TO BE SERVED 
WITH COLD MEATS, STEWS OR HASH. 

I onion chopped fine, i quart of ripe toma- 
toes, I small red-pepper pod or half of an even 
♦■""^""""''"1 of cayenne, i teaspoonfnl of salt. 
Puis of sugar, i teaspoonful of mixed 
ces (mace, cloves, allspice, and cin- 
cupful of genuine cider vinegar. 
atoes aud vinegar together two hours, 
atoes should be skinned and sliced 

Du and other ingredients and cook 

loth sauce is liked strain through a 
ep in a cool place, covered. 



Catertng tor ^vco. 173 

CHARI^OTTE RUSSE. 

Place slices of stale cake in a covered dish, 
and set in a steamer until they become soft. 

When cold, arrange on a dish for the table, 
and pour over them Sea-foam cream flavored 
with wine. 

If preferred, whipped cream sweetened and 
flavored may be used instead. Sea-foam must 
stand on the ice awhile, but the whipped cream 
may be used immediately. 

Substitute for whipped cream must also 
stand on ice to thicken. 

QUEEN'S PUDDING. 

Scald one cupful of milk, and soak in it 
one fourth of a cupful of bread-crumbs while 
beating the yolk of an egg, with two even 
tablespoon fuls of granulated sugar, a pinch of 
salt, and the grated rind of a quarter of a 
lemon. 

Stir all together and bake in an earthen pud- 
ding-dish about fifteen minutes. Then spread 
on top a layer of jam, jelly, marmalade, or any 
rich preserves (using half a cupful), and on top 
of this the frothed white of the egg, sweetened, 
after frothing, with two tablespoonfuls of 
granulated sugar, and the juice of a quarter 
of a lemon. Return to the oven and brown 
(time, about seven minutes). 



V -w 



174 Catering fot Cwo. 

Serve cold, but not ice cold. 

This becomes a new pudding with 
change of preserves. The bread-cruiobs 
from the bread which is dried in the oven 
then rolled to a powder on the niouldii)g-b< 
Measure after rolling, and be exact in me 
iag. 



XXVIII. 

Raw oysters. 

Roast turkey. 

Mashed potatoes. Boiled onions. 

Cranberry sauce. 

Bread and butter. Celery. 

Salted almonds or olives. 

lyettuce if desired. 
Cream cheese and wafers. 

Orange jelly (ice cold). 

Plum pudding. 

Pineapple jardiniere. 

Coffee. Cream candies. 

This menu is for Christmas Day. 
That for Thanksgiving is the same, substitut- 
ing mince pie for plum pudding. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Select a fat turkey weighing nine or ten 
pounds. After it has been drawn, trimmed, 
and singed, rinse quickly in cold water and fill 
both cavities with stuffing, breaking the neck 
and turning it into the upper one. 

175 



I7& Oatetfitg foe Cwo 

Sew withalargedamiag-needle 
coarse daming-cotton, tie the legs 
to the body, and treat the wings i 
Rub the outside of the turkey witi 
over pepper and a tablespoonf 
dredge plentifully with flour, le 
rack in a large dripping-pan, pout 
water, and roast in a moderate o\ 
to six hours, according to age. I 
the top to keep in the steam an 
must be removed the last boor i: 
not brown enongb. 

When half tbe time is up, tu 

If thin slices of fat salt pork > 
there will be no need for basting, 

The stuffing for a nine-pound 
quire three qnarts of bread-crun 
old, and about a pint of boiling 
more if the bread is very dry) 
tablespoon fuls of thyme, a beepii 
of salt, a heaping teaspoonful of 
a heaping tablespoonful of butter 
amount of the turkey-fat, chopp< 

Mix all together thoroughly v 
see that all the lumps are diss< 
butter, thyme, salt, and pepper i 
tributed. Themixture shouldbt 

Put tbe gizzard in the dripping 
turkey goes in ; it can hardly 



Catering tot (Two. 177 

much if kept under water ; turn it frequently 
and keep an inch of water in the pan, pour- 
ing in from the boiling teakettle as it cooks 
away. 

Boil the heart and liver in a half-pint of 
water thirty minutes, and, when cold, chop in 
the chopping-bowl with the gizzard (very 
fine). 

Blend two tablespoon fuls of flour with enough 
cold water to make it like cream, pour this in 
the dripping-pan after the turkey is removed, 
add the chopped giblets with the water they 
were cooked in and an extra cupful of boiling 
water, cook a few minutes, skim off most of 
the fat, and serve. 

Put the turkey on a large platter garnished 
with celery. 

Keep the turkey-fat, covered, in a cold place, 
and use it for frying potatoes. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE (STRAINED). 

Pick over and wash a pint of cranberries. 
Put them on a slow fire in an earthen vessel 
with a cup of cold water. Cover and cook 
gently two hours. 

Then mash and strain through a coarse cloth. 
Add a cup of sugar, return to the fire, cook a 
few minutes, pour into a dish, and serve cold. 

A quart of cranberries will be needed for a 

dozen people. 
12 






1 
V 



J7S Catering tot Swo. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE (WHOLE). 

Piclc over and wash two cupfuls of fine en 
beiries. Pat tbem in an earthen disb, pour o\ 
& cup of sugar, add a cupful of boiling wati 
cover, and cook gently nearly two hours, Ser 
hot or cold. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Soak fourrounded teaspoonfuls of gelatine 
two tablespoonfnls of water ten mjnatea. 

Add. three tablespoon liiU of sugar, a sea 
cupful of boiling water, and half a cupful  
tart orange juice. Altogether this should mei 
ure one and a half cupfuls. 

If only sweet oranges are obtainable, add 
spoonful of lemon juice to give the requir 
acidity. Add a few grains of salt and a pin 
of grated orange rind. In hot weather use fi 
teaspoonfuls of gelatine. 

When this dish is used as a dessert, set 
with it whipped cream, or Sea-foam cream. 

GENUINE ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING, 
Onehalf-poundeachofhread-crumbs,*kidn 
suet, brown sugar, Zante currants, table raisii 
assorted candied fruits {lemon and orange p( 
and citron weighing half a pound altogethe 
sultana raisins (one pound), &ve eggs, one tah 
qMwnful of flour, four tablespoon fuls motassi 
* Wci^h the brcad^cnimbs before drying. 



Catering tor ^Two^ 179 

one teaspoonful of salt (rounded), one half-tea- 
spoonful each of cinnamon and cloves, and a 
quarter of a nutmeg, one teaspoonful of ginger, 
one half-cupful of wine or brandy, or cider, if 
preferred. Wine or brandy makes a finer 
pudding, however. 

Sift flour and spices together and chop in the 
suet. Add the candied fruit and chop as fine as 
peas. 

Pick over carefully one by one the currants, 
wash in cold water, changing this until no sand 
is seen on the bottom of the dish, skimming 
the fruit out. 

Then pour over them enough boiling water 
to barely cover and let them stand to swell. 

Soak the table raisins in boiling water for a 
few minutes and take out the seeds. Pick over 
the sultanas and set them in the oven to get soft. 

Now put all the fruit together and add the 
bread-crumbs, which must be stale, dried in the 
oven, and rolled to powder. 

Beat up the eggs, add the sugar, molasses, and 
wine, and stir this well with the fruit, chopped 
suet, etc. 

Butter three tin pails having covers, each 
holding a quart, and divide the pudding between 
them ; it must have room to expand. 

Steam ^steadily eight hours with water half- 
way up the sides. 

Set the pails on wire tea-stands or a meat-rack. 

Serve with brandy and hard sauces. 



i8o Catering tor XLvoo. 

WINE SAUCE FOR PLUM PUDDING. 

Cream half a capful of best butter and one 
and a half cupfuls of light brown sugar until 
foamy, add two heaping tablespoonfuls of flour, 
beat and stir in slowly one and a half cups of 
boiling water and an even teaspoonful of salt. 

Boil, stirring constantly, ten minutes, then 
add half a cupful of wine or brandy and serve 
hot in a sauce-boat. Color with a teaspoonful 
of caramel. 



HARD SAUCE. 

Cream half a cupful of butter, add one cupful 
of confectioner's sugar, beat fifteen minutes, 
and pile into a serving bowl. 

Grate nutmeg over the top. 

This quantity of sauce will be sufficient for 
twelve people. 

Plum pudding improves with age. It must 
be kept closely covered in the pails in which it 
was cooked. 

When wanted, cut oflf slices and heat (covered) 
in the oven, or in a steamer. Half a slice, 
half an inch thick, is enough for one portion. 

Get the fruit and bread-crumbs ready for 
mixing the day before and cook the pudding at 
least a week before it is to be served. One of 
the puddings may be cut in half and frosted 
with a deep soft frosting and passed as fruit 



Catering toe tTvco. i8i 

cake. It must be eaten with a fork, however, 
as it is too soft and sticky to be held in the 
fingers. 

MINCE-MBAT FOR ONE LARGE PIE. 

One gill of mixed candied citron, lemon, and 
orange peels, one gill of chopped suet, three 
gills of mixed raisins and currants, three gills 
chopped apples, raw, one cupful of chopped 
cooked beef, two tablespoonfuls molasses, three 
tablespoonfiils brown sugar, one heaping tea- 
spoonful of mixed spices (nutmeg, allspice, 
cloves, cinnamon, and black pepper), one quarter 
of a teaspoonful salt, one cupful of cider or 
wine and cider mixed. 

Cover the raisins with cold water and seed 
them. Pick over the currants and wash them, 
and cover both raisins and currants with cold 
water and cook slowly until • the water has 
boiled off. Then add the candied fruit and 
suet (chopped fine), sugar, molasses, spices, and 
cider, and boil an hour, stirring frequently. 

Mix apples and meat together, add salt and 
the other ingredients, and cook up thoroughly 
(about ten Ininutes). Put away in a jar until 
wanted. 

The meat should be boiled or stewed until 
very tender, and well salted before it gets cold. 
Cover with boiling water and cook until the 
water is all gone, being careful not to scorch. 



1 82 Catering tot tTwo. 

Under-round pot-roast will make good mince- 
meat, also stewing beef. Chop when cold. 

A little brandy may be poured over the pie 
just before serving. 

Raise the crust and allow a spoonful for each 
portion. 

PINEAPPLK JARDINIERE. 

Cut the top from a ripe pineapple and re- 
serve it for the cover. 

Cut out the inside, rejecting the core, and 
scoop out the juice and the part lying next to 
the rind, with a spoon, being careful not to 
break nor puncture it. Put the rind and the 
cover in a cool place. Put the pineapple into a 
bowl, add half a cupful of sherry (a few spoon- 
fuls of brandy, rum, or champagne may be 
substituted for the sherry), and let it stand on 
ice until wanted at table, then mix with orange 
pulp, seeded and halved Tokay grapes, banana, 
or peaches and plums, stoned cherries, or ber- 
ries according to season, sugar to taste, fill the 
rind, put on the cover, and set the pineapple on 
a dish of cracked ice. Serve in flaring cham- 
pagne glasses. 

One pineapple, two oranges, one banana, and 
half a pound of grapes will fill the rind twice 
and serve twelve people. 



MENUS FOR COMPANY 
LUNCHEONS. 

I. 

Oyster cocktails. 

Breaded French chops. White sauce. 
Mashed potatoes. Celery. 

Tomato mayonnaise. 
Cheese. Crackers. 

Vanilla ice-cream. 
CoflFee. Fruit. 



II. 

Grape fruit. 

Beauregarde eggs. 

Fried chicken. 

Escalloped potatoes. 

Stu£Fed tomatoes. 

I^ettuce salad. 
Cream cheese. Crackers. 

Coffee Bavarian cream. 
Fruit. Coffee. 

183 



i84 Catering for tLvffo. 

III. 

Bouillon in cups. 

French chops. Green peas. 

Fried potatoes. 

Croustade of oysters. 

Lettuce salad. 
Crackers. Cheese. 

Vanilla ice-cream. Caramel sauce. 

Fruit. Cofifee. 



IV. 

Oysters on half-shell. 

Fried smelts. Sauce tartare. 

Blanquette of chicken. 
Mashed potatoes. 

Tomato and celery salad. 
Cheese. Crackers. 

Pineapple jardiniere. 

Coffee. 



SUPPI.EMENTARY DISHES IN 
COMPANY LUNCHEONS. 

OYSTER COCKTAILS. 

Oyster cocktails are served in small cocktail 
glasses, with a dressing of catsup, etc. 



Catering tot XLv^o. 185 

Order very small oysters, drain, and see that 
they are very cold and free from bits of shell. 

Put half a dozen in each glass, and pour over 
them several spoonfuls of the dressing made as 
follows : 

One tablespoonful of lemon juice, one table- 
spoonful of tomato catsup, half a teaspoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce, five drops of Tobasco 
sauce, and a little salt. 

This quantity will be sufficient for three peo- 
ple, but the rule may be doubled or trebled 
according to need. 

BREADED CHOPS. 

The chops should be breaded and delicately 
fried, and arranged on a hot platter. 

At the moment of serving, pour over a rich 
white sauce. 

VANILLA ICE-CREAM. 

Put one pint of milk in the double boiler with 
a piece of vanilla bean about an inch in length. 

Cream together two eggs, half a cup of sugar, 
and two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour until 
very light, and stir gradually into the milk 
when it reaches the boiling point. 

Allow this to cook ten minutes, stirring fre- 
quently. Add a small pinch of salt, and turn 
into a stone dish, beating at intervals while it 
cools to prevent it from forming into lumps. 



1 86 Catetiud for XLwo. 

When cold add one and a half pints of cream 
(or rich country milk) and half a cup of sugar. 

This mixture may be prepared early in the 
day and kept in the ice-box. 

If a larger quantity is desired, a quart of 
cream may be used, the foundation being the 
same. 

Care must be taken in measuring the flour, 
as too much is sure to taste ; the spoon must be 
rounding full instead of heaping — ^about one 
ounce in all. 

Be sure and use the vanilla bean for flavoring, 
as it is quite impossible to make a good ice- 
cream with vanilla extract. 

All large grocery houses keep vanilla in this 
form, and it would doubtless be easy to have one 
or more sent by post to any place where they 
were not obtainable. 

Before freezing, remove the bit of pod, care- 
fully scraping all the little seeds into the 
custard. 

Prepare the ice by pounding it fine in a coarse, 
strong bag, and use rock salt in the proportion 
of three pints for a gallon freezer. 

Put the can in the centre of the tub with the 
beater in place, fasten the lid securely, and 
pack ice and salt in alternate layers until the tub 
is fiill. 

Turn the crank a few minutes, and as the ice 
works down, add more, until it is firmly and 
solidly packed. 



Catering tor Zvoo. 187 

If plenty of ice is used, twenty minutes will 
serve to freeze the cream. 

The crank need not be turned constantly, and 
the motion at first should be rather slow. 
When the custard begins to harden, turn rap- 
idly, as this is the stage when rapid beating 
makes the cream smooth and light. 

When it is firm enough, take out the paddle, 
beat well with a wooden spoon to fill up the 
space made by the beater, and scrape well from 
the sides. 

Cover the tub with a blanket and set away in 
a cool place, and let two hours elapse before 
serving. 

When ready to do so, dip the can in warm (not 
hot) water, wipe dry, and invert on a cold dish. 

It should come out in firm and perfect shape. 

It is possible to have several varieties of cream 
in the same mould with only one freezing, and 
various combinations may be made to suit the 
individual taste. 

After the cream is frozen a portion may be 
taken out into a cold bowl and a cupful of well- 
sweetened strawberry or raspberry juice stirred 
into it. Pour this back into the can and it will 
soon harden to the proper consistency. 

A quarter of a cupful of very strong coffee 
may be used in the same way. 

A banana or two may be sliced thin and added 
as another variation, or a little shredded pine- 
apple. 



i88 Catcttttd tor Uwo* 

Ripe peaches, if cut up and sweetened, may 
also be used, but they should not be added until 
about half an hour before serving-time, as they 
should only be chilled and not frozen. 

Candied fruits, particularly apricots and 
cherries, are also a pleasant addition, if cut into 
very minute pieces and well mixed through the 
cream. 

GRAPE FRUIT. 

Grape fruit should be well chilled, cut in half, 
the core removed, and the pulp loosened slightly 
around the outside edge ; use a sharp knife and 
be careful not to let any of the white part ad- 
here, as this is very bitter. 

Fill the core cavity with cracked ice and 
sugar and serve a half to each person, on a 
pretty plate. 

These may be on the table when the meal is 
announced. 

This course is eaten with orange-spoons or 
the ordinary teaspoon. 

BEAUREGARDE EGGS. 

Boil six eggs twenty minutes. Make a pint 
of cream sauce. Cut the whites of the eggs in 
thin strips, mix with the sauce, and fill baking 
shells, one for each person. 

Rub the yolks of the eggs through a sieve on 
top of each shell, put in the oven for two or three 
minutes, and serve. 



Cater fng tot tTwo* 189 

OYSTER CROUSTADE.* 

Get a round loaf of baker's bread which is 
two or three days old, and scoop out all the 
crumb, being careful not to break the crust. 

Break up the crumbs very fine and dry them 
slowly in the oven. 

When dry, fry three cupfiils in two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, stirring all the time (about three 
minutes). 

Put one quart of cream, or rich milk, on the 
fire, and when it reaches the boiling point stir 
in three tablespoonfuls of flour which have been 
mixed with half a cupful of cold milk. Cook 
for a few minutes and season with salt and 
pepper. 

Now put a layer of this sauce in the loaf, then 
a layer of oysters salted and peppered, another 
layer of sauce, and then one of the fried crumbs. 

Repeat this until the croustade is nearly full, 
having a thick layer of crumbs on top. 

Bake slowly half an hour and serve with a 
garnish of parsley. 

Three pints of oysters are required for this 
dish, but half the quantity of ingredients given 
will be sufficient when the croustade is to form 
& single course. 

CARAMEL CREAM SAUCE. 
Caramel sauce is made by stirring into a cup- 

* Miss Parloa. 



iQo Catecfttd tot TTwo. 

fill of cold cream two tablespoon fuls of caramel, 
directions for which have been given elsewhere. 

Serve in a pretty bowl and pass to each guest. 

A pint or more of caramel may be made at a 
time and bottled ; it will keep indefinitely. 

OYSTERS ON THE HALF-SHELL. 

Four or five small oysters on the half-shell 
are sufficient for each portion. 

Arrange on a small plate on a bed of cracked 
ice with a quarter of a lemon in the centre. 

Pass horse radish and crackers with this 
course. 

FRIED SMELTS. 

The smelts should be breaded some time 
before the meal, and fried either in deep fat 
or in a little beef dripping, until a delicate 
brown. 

Serve with a sauce tartare, which is a mayon- 
naise with an addition of chopped pickles and 
capers. 

BLANQUETTE OF CHICKEN.* 

One quart of cooked chicken, cut in delicate 
pieces ; one large cupful of white stock, three 
tablespoon fuls of butter, a heaping tablespoon- 
ful of flour, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, 
one cupful of cream or milk, the yolks of four 
eggs, salt, pepper. 

* Miss Parloa. 



Catering tot ^vpo. 191 

Put the batter into the saucepan, and when 
hot, add the flour. 

Stir until smooth, but do not let it brown. 
Add the stock and cook two minutes, then add 
the seasoning and cream. 

As soon as this boils up add the chicken and 
cook ten minutes. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs with four table- 
spoonfuls of milk ; stir into the blanquette and 
cook about half a minute longer. 

This may be served in a rice border or with 
a garnish of toasted bread. 

TOMATO AND CELERY SALAD.* 

Select firm, good-sized ripe tomatoes. Cut 
a lid from the top and scoop out all the seeds 
and soft pulp with a spoon, being very care- 
ful not to break the tomato. Mix celery cut 
as for salad in small pieces, with mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Fill the tomatoes with this mixture, put 
a teaspoonful of dressing on the top of each 
tomato, and serve on crisp lettuce leaves. 

* Table Talk. 



BREAKFAST, TEA, AND LUNCH- 
EON DISHES. 

EGGS AU GRATIN FOR LUNCHEON. 

* 

Heat one third of a cupful of milk with a 
tablespoonful of butter in a broad, shallow bak- 
ing-dish. Put into this four muffin-rings and 
break an egg into each ring ; sprinkle with 
salt and pepper and add a layer of grated 
cheese. Brown delicately in a quick oven, or 
cook on top of the stove and brown the top 
with a hot stove-lid or red-hot shovel. 

Eggs require only a few minute's' cooking. 

A tiny pinch of mustard and cayenne may be 
added to the milk if liked. 

SMOKED TONGUE. 

Wash, cover with cold water, and soak over- 
night a fine beef tongue. Next morning put 
it into a two-gallon pot, cover with boiling 
water, and cook gently five or six hours. 

When cold pull off the skin and slice in thin 
slices. 

Any scraps that remain may be chopped, 

192 



Catering tor Zv^o. 193 

mashed to a paste, seasoned with cayenne 
pepper, and used for sandwiches. 

CRUST FOR OYSTER PATTIES. 

Beat one fresh ice-cold egg with four table- 
spoonfuls of ice-water until it appears to be a 
mass of froth. Set it on the ice while cutting 
one cupful of ice-cold butter into two cupfuls 
of flour which have been sifted several times 
with a salt-spoonful of salt. 

When the butter has been cut to the size of 
peas beat up again, quickly, the egg mixture, 
and with a spoon mix it into the flour. Beat 
with the rolling-pin and roll out an eighth of 
an inch thick, cut into circles the right size 
to fit in patty pans, cut covers, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

The covers are baked on tins or dripping- 
pans. 

Do not handle the paste more than is abso- 
lutely necessary ; simply pinch it together with 
the tips of the fingers, roll out once, and put 
in the oven as quickly as possible. 

Make the paste in a cool room, and only roll 
out a portion at a time, keeping the rest in the 
ice-box. 

Keep the trimmings separate, pinch them 
all together at the last, and roll out once. Take 
the last little scraps, form into balls, and roll 
each one out by itself for tarts. 

X3 



194 Qntcxing tot Zv^o. 

This prevents too much working with the 
dough and also does away with the necessity 
of using too much flour. 

If the butter softens before baking, the crust 
will not be crisp and flaky. 

These patties will keep two weeks in a cool, 
dry place, and may be filled at any time and 
heated in the oven. 

If oyster filling is desired, make a cream 
sauce of a tablespoonfiil of butter, an even 
teaspoonftd of flour, the juice of a dozen small 
oysters, salt and pepper to taste, cook a few 
minutes, then add the oysfiers and a tablespoon- 
ful of cream, boil up once, and serve in the hot 
shells. 

A little lemon and onion juice may be added. 

For chicken patties, make the sauce of butter, 
flour, and milk, with the yolk of a hard-boiled 
egg mashed fine ; add parsley and onion juice, 
salt and pepper, and minced chicken. The 
tart shells may be filled with jellies, marma- 
lades, or preserved or rich stewed fruits. 

SOUFFLES. 
(Chicken or Fish.) 

Take half a cupful of the white part of boiled 
chicken, pound to a paste, moisten with two ta- 
blespoonfuls of cream (or milk and butter), add 
the beaten yolk of a raw egg, season with pars- 
ley, mushrooms, or any preferred herb, salt and 



daterind for ?Xwo* 195 

pepper to taste, add the frothed white of the 
eggf put quickly and lightly into a buttered 
mould, and either set in a hot oven for a few 
minutes, or in a saucepan of boiling water. 
Cook only long enough to set the egg; too 
much cooking will toughen and spoil a souffle, 
which must be served and eaten the moment it 
comes from the fire. Put on a heated dish, and 
pour around it a sauce made from chicken broth, 
thickened with a little browned flour mixed with 
butter, and flavored either with mushrooms, 
onion, lemon juice, or wine. 

Boiled flsh may be used in the same way with 
a seasoning of anchovies, wine, and cayenne. 
Canned salmon is a very good basis for a souffl6, 
and the sauce of thin drawn butter may be im- 
proved by the addition of capers. 

SALMON, WITH HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

Canned salmon may be used for this dish, 
which will be found valuable in an emergency. 

Heat a little butter in a frying-pan, and lay 
the salmon in it long enough to cook and heat 
thoroughly ; then put it on a dish, salt and pep- 
per to taste, and serve either with HoUandaise 
sauce, or cream sauce, or drawn butter, with 
parsley or capers. 

BAKED HAMBURG STEAK. 
A *' meat-cutter'' is a most valuable kitchen 



196 Catering tot tTwo* 

utensil, and meat-balls and Hamburg steaks 
may be prepared very quickly with it. Remove 
all of the fat, tendons, and gristle from half a 
pound of round steak, pass this through the cut- 
ter, and then grind through a lump of fine kid- 
ney suet the size of a hen's egg. 

Mix all together, smooth into a square mound, 
pepper, and dredge with flour, and bake in a 
quick oven, rare or well done, as preferred. 

Serve with butter and salt, pouring off" the 
grease first. This dish is delicious cold. Onion 
juice may be added if liked, also sliced lemon 
or watercress. 

FRIZZLED BEEF. 

Make a sauce of a dessert-spoonful of butter 
stirred to a cream with one of flour, add a cup- 
ful of boiling milk (water will do), stir, and cook 
several minutes ; then add half a cupful of dried 
beef, torn into inch pieces, and set on the back of 
the range fifteen minutes to swell and get hot, 
but not cook. 

Stir occasionally, and add a little more milk 
if it seems too thick or too salt. Pepper lightly, 
and serve with bread toasted, dipped in salted 
boiling water, and buttered liberally. 

The toast should be on a separate dish. 

Hot hard-boiled eggs make an excellent gar- 
nish. 



Catering rot ITwo* 197 

REMNANTS OF COLD OVEN-ROASTS OR 

BROILS. 

Take any oven-roast, steak or chops, and fry 
slowly two hours, or until tender, with a slice 
of fat salt pork ; or stew in just enough water to 
cover. 

Be careful not to bum, and keep closely cov- 
ered. When done, throw away the grease, trim 
off fat, gristle, and bones, cut the meat into 
mouthfuls, sprinkle with salt, pepper, butter, 
and flour, add a little water and beef extract, 
or any gravy at hand. Lay on top of the meat 
hot mashed potatoes, and brown in the oven. 

For a change add a well-beaten egg to the po- 
tatoes (two cupfuls), and a little more milk. 

Bake in a quick oven. 

Boiled meats or pot-roasts will not need to be 
cooked before baking ; they are tender enough. 

REMNANTS OF COLD POULTRY, VEAL, 

OR LAMB. 

Mince the meat into pieces as large as large- 
sized peas ; pick out all bone, gristle, fat, and 
skin, and mix with the following sauce : Mash 
the yolk of a hard-boiled egg with a table- 
spoonful of butter, a little salt, and a pinch of 
cayenne, and when it becomes a paste add a tea- 
spoonful of flour. Pour on two thirds of a cup- 
ful of boiling milk, cook a few minutes, add the 



198 Catetfn0 rot ZTwo. 

white of the egg, chopped fine, and then stir in 
the meat. Set on the stove long enough to heat, 
but not cook, and serve on thin slices of dipped 
and buttered toast. 

Another way is to make a dressing of equal 
parts of cracker- or bread-crumbs and oysters, 
salt, pepper, and butter to taste ; lay this on 
meat, and brown in oven. 

Another way is to chop the meat fine, bind to- 
gether with a thick drawn butter, form into flat 
cakes, dip into powdered cracker-crumbs (or 
beaten egg and cracker), and fry in a little but- 
ter or hot lard (salt to taste). 

Still another way is to cut the meat in slices 
half an inch thick, trim off the fat, brush with 
milk or water (or dip into beaten egg)y bread 
with powdered cracker-crumbs, and fry just long 
enough to brown outside. 

Serve on a bed of watercress, and cover each 
cutlet with a thick sauce made of a little flour, 
cracker-crumbs, butter, boiling water, and 
lemon juice, or minced parsley. 

Pass currant or grape jelly. 

Roast pork may be made into cutlets, in which 
case pass crab-apple jelly or stewed apples. 
Saltine crackers are nice for breading. 

ESPAGNOLB, OR BROWN SAUCE, FOR 

STEWS, ETC. 

Fry one slice of onion (and a slice each of 



Catering tor (Two. 199 

carrot and turnip, adding parsley and celery if 
liked) in a tablespoonfiil of chopped salt pork 
or butter, until a rich brown. 

Then add an even tablespoonfiil of flour, cook 
up, and add salt and a half-cupfiil of boiling 
water in which has been dissolved a quarter of 
a spoonful of beef extract. 

Cook a few minutes and strain. Rich stock 
may be used instead of the extract. 

This sauce may be made with the onion alone 
if the other vegetables are not at hand, and a 
half-teaspoon ful of curry-powder converts it 
into a curry sauce. 

ONION BUTTER. 

For flavoring gravies, stews, and dishes of 
cooked-over meats, an onion butter is a great 
convenience, as it will keep for weeks in a cold 
place. This butter can be used where onion is 
objected to, even the most suspicious not being 
able to detect its presence. 

Slice a large white onion and fry it in two 
tablespoonfuls of butter until the onion has 
shrivelled and turned brown. 

Then strain through a wire strainer into a 
little earthen jar with a close cover. Throw 
away the onion. A quarter-teaspoonful of this 
is enough flavoring for a dish for two or three 
persons. 



200 Catering tor XLvoo. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD. 

One pair of lamb sweetbreads will make 
enough salad for two people when served for 
dinner as a separate course, but more will be 
required for lighter meals. Pour boiling water 
on them, let stand for a few minutes, and then 
plunge them in ice-water. 

When thoroughly chilled, pour on hot water 
to cover, bring to a boil, and cook gently about 
eight minutes. 

They should be tender by this time. 

Cool quickly by plunging again in ice-water, 
break into small pieces, removing all gristle 
and fat, and mix with cream salad 4ressing or 
mayonnaise. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves. 

Veal sweetbreads will take about twenty 
minutes to cook, as they are much larger. 

POTATO SALAD FOR TEA OR 
LUNCHEON. 

Chop fine one cupful of cold baked potato 
and add the following sauce : Mix together one 
teaspoonful of butter, one even teaspoonful of 
flour, a pinch of mustard and one of cayenne, 
one third of a teaspoonful of salt, and then add 
half a cupful of boiling milk and a few drops 
of onion juice. Cook until creamy, then add 
the chopped potato and stir until the mass is 
heated through. 



Catering tor tTwo* 201 

Wben cold, serve with hard-boiled eggs and 
French dressing. 

This may be served with lettuce leaves or 
with a simple garnish of capers and parsley. 
Chopped meat is sometimes added to this salad, 
in the proportion of one third potatoes to two 
thirds meat. 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN. 

The chicken for this dish must be young, 
tender, and plump. 

Have it split as for broiling. 

Wipe dry with a cloth, spread it liberally 
with butter all over, dust with flour and pepper, 
and lay it, skin side down, on a meat-rack in a 
dripping-pan. Pour in a cupful of boiling 
water, add a few sprigs of parsley, cover closely, 
and bake in a hot oven thirty minutes, or longer 
if necessary. 

Then turn the chicken skin side up, and 
brown uncovered ten or fifteen minutes. 

Cut up the giblets, cooked tender in one cup- 
ful of water, add a spoonful of flour and a lump 
of butter the size of a hen's egg, add the water 
from the giblets, stir all in the dripping-pan, 
and cook, seasoning with salt, pepper, parsley, 
or sweet marjoram. Joint the chicken so 
it may be easily carved, but do not separate 
it. Serve on a platter with the gravy poured 
around. 



202 Catecittd toe Zwo. 

PICKED-UP CODFISH. 

Pour boiling water on half a pound of salt 
codfish picked into bits and bones removed. 
Pour the water oflf in a few minutes and cover 
with more. This will make the fish fresh 
enough when it is drained the second time. 

Blend a tablespoonful of butter and a dessert- 
spoonful of flour together, add half a cup of 
milk, and cook a few minutes. Then add the 
codfish and a little minced parsley, simmer a 
few minutes, and serve on a platter with a hard- 
boiled egg cut in slices distributed over the 
surface. 

Add black pepper and capers if desired. 

MAPLE-SUGAR SYRUP. 

Break up one pound of genuine maple sugar, 
pour over it three cupfuls of boiling water, and 
set on back of the range to melt. Then strain 
through several thicknesses of cheese-cloth 
wrung out of water. Return to the fire and 
boil and skim half an hour. There should be 
one pint of syrup. 

MILK TOAST. 

Take dry pieces of bread, heat them in the 
oven, then toast a fine even brown. Dip into 
boiling salted water, butter, and place in a dish. 

Boil a pint of rich milk and stir in it half a 



Catering tor Zwo. 203 

teaspoonful of corn-starch (or flour) mixed with 
a heaping teaspoonful of butter ; add salt to 
taste, and after cooking a few minutes pour 
over the toast. 

CHEESE ON TOAST. 

One half-cupful of old English cheese, grated ; 
four tablespoonfuls of milk, one teaspoonful 
of butter, one even teaspoonful of flour, one 
pinch of salt. Blend flour and butter, add the 
milk, boil up, add the cheese, boil up again, 
and pour on toasted bread which has been 
dipped in salted boiling water and slightly 
buttered. 

Set in the oven, covered, until wanted, but it 
should be served soon after it is ready. 

FRESH FISH (FRIED). 
(Any preferred kind. One pound.) 

After cleaning and scaling, wash in cold 
water. Do this quickly and dry gently with a 
napkin. Either dredge with flour or dip in 
rolled cracker-crumbs (half a cup of crumbs 
will be required). Sprinkle on half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a dust of pepper, and fry a fine 
brown in any fat preferred. A tablespoon ful 
of butter, or the grease from two slices of fat 
salt pork, will be sufficient. 

Fry rapidly at first, then cook about ten min- 
utes for each side on a cooler part of the stove. 



204 Catering tor Zwo. 

Serve on a platter with lumps of butter dot- 
ting the fish. Roes of shad or mackerel are 
cooked the same way. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

Cut into inch pieces one heaping cupful of 
salt codfish. Remove the bones and skin and 
put into an earthen dish, pour on three cupfuls 
of boiling water, and set on the stove to keep 
warm, but not boil, for two homrs. It should 
be freshened enough by this time. Pour off the 
water, pick into tiny bits, or chop, add one 
heaping cupful of hot mashed potato and the 
following drawn butter : Mix one teaspoonful 
of flour with one heaping tablespoon ful of but- 
ter, add three tablespoonfuls of boiling water 
and a dust of pepper, and cook a few minutes. 

Make into eight little flat cakes, dredge with 
flour, and fry (next day) a delicate brown, in 
salt-pork drippings. Serve on a platter with 
the slices of fried salt pork, garnished with 
parsley. 

A border of hard-boiled eggs (hot) may be 
added. 

SAUSAGES (FRIED AND BAKED). 

Sausages should be well cooked ; in fact pork 
in any form should never be served unless it is 
thoroughly well done. 

Put the sausages in a pan, cover, and fry 



catering tor Zvpo. 205 

slowly, turning from side to side until every 
part has come in contact with the fire. Add a 
little boiling water to the gravy, stir, boil up, 
and pour over the sausages. 

If baked, more time will be required. 

Have the oven quite hot. Some cooks prefer 
to cut each sausage in half, lengthwise, adding 
a little extra seasoning of sage and pepper. 

OATMEAL. 

One scant cupful of ** pin -head '* oatmeal, 
three and a half cupfuls of boiling water, and 
one even teaspoonful of salt. 

Stir until it begins to boil, and in a little 
while stir again ; then cover and cook slowly 
two hours. 

In cool weather this will keep several days, 
and may be warmed up as required. 

The ** Universal" pot is the best utensil in 
which to cook oatmeal and hominy ; it is a 
crock set in a bottomless tin frame. 

Pin-head oatmeal is far superior to any of the 
steam-cooked oats. 

INDIAN-MEAL MUSH. 

Pour one pint of boiling water on one cupful 
of yellow Indian meal and a scant teaspoonful 
of salt. 

Stir constantly to prevent lumping. 



2o6 Catetittd tor XLvqq. 

When well mixed, tie closely in a wet cloth 
and boil steadily two or three hours, or longer, 
in a pot of salted boiling water. Set a tea-stand 
in the bottom of the pot to prevent the cloth 
from sticking. 

Turn into a dish, and when cold, slice, dredge 
with flour (or bread-crumbs), and fry in hot salt- 
pork drippings or butter. 

Serve hot with butter and syrup. 

MUFFINS. 
(Baking-Powder.) 

Sift one heaping cupful of flour with one tea- 
spoonful of baking-powder and a scant half- 
teaspoonful of salt. 

Beat one egg, and one cup of milk and water 
(half and half), one teaspoonful of sugar, a heap- 
ing tablespoonful of butter, melted ; stir well, 
and then add the flour. 

Bake in gem pans or muffin-rings twenty 
minutes in a hot oven. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Half fill a frying-pan with boiling water, put 
in a little salt and half a dozen muffin-rings. 

Break the eggs, one at a time, in a saucer, and 
slip one into each muffin-ring. 

Boil until the whites assume a milky color. 

Serve on buttered toast which has been freed 
from crust. 



^-j^* 



Catecind tot q:wo. 207 

A perforated skimmer should be used to take 
up the eggs. 
They will require about one minute to cook. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Allow a teaspoonful of butter for each egg. 

Heat the butter, add the eggs Unbeaten, and 
stir, cooking slowly a few minutes ; they should 
be soft when taken from the fire, and a trifle 
juicy. If hard, the dish will be spoiled. 

Serve immediately. 

HAM OMELETTE. 

Beat three eggs until whites and yolks are 
blended, — no longer ; eggs for omelettes do not 
require much beating. 

Add a quarter of a cup of milk in which one 
heaping tablespoonfiil of finely powdered bread 
crumbs have soaked thoroughly, and a table- 
spoonful of melted butter. 

Fry in a sheet-iron frying-pan, heated very 
hot, two minutes, drawing the omelette away 
from the sides of the pan so that the uncooked 
part can reach the fire. 

Sprinkle with pepper, and lay over the top 
two tablespoonfuls of finely minced ham (either 
fried or boiled). Cover the pan until the ham is 
hot ; then loosen the omelette with a broad knife- 
blade, and roll it up. 

Serve at once. 



2o8 Catering (oc dvpo. 

Sliced raw tomatoes make an appetizing gar- 
nish for this dish. To be right the omelette 
must be soft inside ; too hot a fire, or too long 
cooking, will make it tough and hard. Bacon, 
freed from rind and fried delicately brown, 
chopped fine, may be used instead of ham. No 
butter will be required, as the omelette should 
be fried in the bacon-drippings. 

If preferred, omelettes may be baked in a hot 
oven ; they should be left in just long enough 
to set the eggs. 

BACON AND EGGS. 

• 

Fry the bacon a delicate brown. 

Put the eggs into muffin-rings in the hot bacon 
fat (first removing the bacon), and baste them 
constantly with the fat until the white of the 
eggs becomes milk-white ; then serve, arranged 
around the bacon. 

If liked, a gravy may be made of flour, bacon 
fat, and milk, and poured over. 

Thirty seconds should cook the eggs. 

LIVER AND BACON. 

Pry a quarter of a pound of bacon, and when 
nicely browned, but not crisp, put it on a plat- 
ter. Into the hot drippings put two slices of 
liver, floured and peppered. Cook about ten 
minutes, basting continually with the bacon fat. 



I 



Catecitid tot Uwo. 209 

Add one teaspoonfol of flour to three table- 
spoonfuls of fat, and half a cup of boiling milk, 
to make a gravy ; cook, and pour over the liver. 
A teaspoonful of lemon may be added, and a 
few drops of onion-juice if liked ; in that case 
make the gravy of water. 

Serve with dipped toast or pan-cakes. 

Lamb's kidneys may be substituted for the 
liver ; split them through the centre, remove 
the veins of fat, cover with cold water, boil un- 
til scum rises ; skim ; then drain and dredge 
with flour, and proceed the same as for liver ; 
the water may be used for the gravy. 

Lamb's kidneys may be fried in butter, and 
breaded, instead of floured, if preferred. They 
may also be served without the bacon. 

BROILED FISH. 

Flour the fish (which has been cleaned, 
rinsed, and dried) lightly, and broil on a well- 
greased gridiron over a clear but quiet fire, 
turning frequently enough to prevent burning. 

It should take about half an hour to broil a 
fish one inch thick. Fish must be cooked 
slowly and thoroughly. Serve with butter, 
salt, and pepper to taste. Salt fish must be 
freshened by soaking over night in enough 
water to fully cover. Wipe dry before cooking. 

Lemons, pickles, or parsley may be used as 
a garnish. 

»4 



210 Caterind tor Zvffo. 

HAM ON TOASl. 

Make a drawn-butter sauce ; add some cold 
liaxn, finely minced, and as soon as it is warmed 
through spread on squares of dipped toast. 

The dish may be garnished with poached eggs 
or sliced hard-boiled eggs. 

After hard-boiled eggs are shelled they may 
be kept hot by putting them in a bowl of hot 
water until ready to serve. 

One tablespoonful of minced ham is a por- 
tion. If fried ham is used, and any milk gravy 
remains, use that in the sauce. Use only enough 
sauce to make the ham stick together in a com- 
pact mass. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Fry one eighth of a pound of sliced salt pork. 
When delicately browned, but before it becomes 
crisp, put it, without the grease, into an agate, 
or the "Universal " pot, and arrange on top a 
pound of veal cut from the thick part of the leg. 

Sprinkle some parsley on top, add a gill of 
water, cover closely, and simmer three hours. 
Set away to get cold, when chop into pieces the 
size of peas ; remove the parsley. Add a pinch 
each of thyme, cayenne pepper, and black pep- 
per, one teaspoonful of onion-juice, one well- 
beaten eggf a tablespoonful of melted butter, 
and the melted jelly from the meat. 

Salt to taste, and pack smoothly in a baking- 



Catetind tot ^wo. 211 

dish ; if there is not enough jelly to make it 
moist and rather juicy, add a little water. 
Cover the top with bread crumbs, and bake 
slowly one hour, covered. 

Slice cold, garnish with celery, and pass 
pickled peaches ; or garnish with skinned ripe 
tomatoes or sliced lemon, and pass celery. 

WHEAT AND INDIAN GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

One overflowing cup of sour (loppered) milk, 
one scant half-level teaspoonful of soda, one well- 
beaten eggy one tablespoonful of butter (melted), 
two thirds of a teaspoonful of salt, three even 
tablespoonfuls of yellow corn meal, one half 
cup of flour measured before sifting. Mix half 
an hour before baking, and then add the soda 
dissolved in one teaspoonful of cold water. 

Beat it in thoroughly and bake on a hot 
griddle. 

In cold weather sour milk may be secured by 
setting fresh milk in a temperature of about 
75® for a few days. Whip a few minutes before 
using to make it light and foamy. 

Bread cakes are made in the same way by 
substituting bread crumbs for the flour, and 
flour for the meal. A pinch of salt will be 
sufficient for these. 

If too thin add an extra spoonful of flour. 

Prepare the bread crumbs in the following 
way : 



212 Catering tot Zwo. 

Cut the crusts from stale bread, put both 
(crusts and inside) in the oven to dry ; then roll 
to powder. The crusts, being brown, should be 
kept by themselves for browning the tops of 
dishes : the inside part is for griddle-cakes and 
puddings. 

These cakes are delicious served for dessert 
at luncheon, with sugar and butter, or butter 
and maple-syrup. 

QUICK BEEF-TEA. 

Pass through the meat grinder, or chop very 
fine, one pound of round or stewing beef (raw) 
freed from fat before grinding. Put into a 
bowl, cover with one cupful of cold water, set 
in a saucepan of cold water and cook (after 
boiling begins) ten minutes, stirring occasion- 
ally. Strain through a coarse sieve, and add 
salt and pepper to taste. If too strong add a 
little more water to the meat and cook up again. 
Beef-tea is apt to be too weak as it is generally 
made ; therefore be careful not to add too much 
water ; a few spoonfuls is enough. 

TO BOIIy NEW POTATOES. 

New potatoes are at their best when baked, 
but they can generally be made light and mealy 
if the following rules are observed. Scrape oflF 
the skin, cut in three-quarter-inch slices, soak 
in cold water a few minutes and then put them 



Catering tot ^wo« 213 

into rapidly boiling (salted) water, cover until 
hard boiling begins, then partly uncover. 
They must boil continuously and vigorously. 
When done, drain, spread a muslin over the 
potatoes, replace the cover and shake the pot 
up and down several times as violently as pos- 
sible : the potatoes will be broken and they 
will lie in a drifting, snowy mass. 

Set on the stove a minute only, covered with 
the muslin ; then put into a heated dish, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and keep hot 
covered with muslin until ready to serve. 

BAKED HASH. 

Hash may be baked in the oven until it is a 
fine brown on top. Cooked in this way it 
makes a nice dinner dish if garnished. 

Serve in baking-dish, or slip it onto a platter, 
and border with potatoes sliced, breaded with 
bread crumbs, and fried a rich brown in a spoon- 
ful of salt-pork drippings. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Follow the rule for Raised Steamed Dump- 
ling, substituting two cupfuls of Graham flour 
for the one cupful of white flour and use 
molasses instead of sugar. 

Raise and bake in patty-pans instead of 
steaming. 



214 Catering tot XLxoo. 

SARDINE SALAD. 

Lay the sardines upon brown paper to absorb 
the oil. Scrape ofif the skin and remove the 
bones, and squeeze lemon juice over them. 

Arrange them upon crisp lettuce leaves and 
serve with either French or mayonnaise dress- 
ing. 

Sliced hard-boiled eggs make a pretty gar- 
nish. For sandwiches mix the sardines with 
mayonnaise and spread upon thin slices of 
bread and butter. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Mix together one cup of buckwheat flour, 
half an even teaspoonful of salt, one cupful of 
lukewarm water, and one eighth of a yeast- 
cake dissolved in three extra tablespoon fuls of 
water. Set to rise over night. Just before 
breakfast add one teaspoonful of New Orleans 
molasses and three tablespoonfuls of hot water 
in which has been dissolved one eighth of a 
teaspoonfiil of soda, and beat together well. 

One or two spoonfuls of the batter may be 
saved from the batch to add to the next 
mixing. 

This gives a pleasing acidity to the cakes. 

Buckwheat may be eaten from October until 
April ; it is too heating during the rest of the 
year. 



Catecind toe ^wo. 215 

Properly made, buckwheat cakes are nutri- 
tious and have great '* staying " qualities ; they 
are to Americans what oatmeal is to the Scotch. 
Grease griddle delicately with olive-oil. 

MILK BREAD (TWO LOAVES). 

Between five and six o'clock in the afternoon 
make a sponge in the following way : 

Pour one and a half cupfuls of boiling water 
on six hops and when just lukewarm, strain, 
squeezing the hops dry. 

Measure this water and add enough more 
water to make an exact cup and a half. Melt 
in this hop-water half a cake of yeast and add 
three even cupfuls of flour dipped from the bag 
and sifted after measuring. Use a three-^art 
basin ; cover closely, and set in a warm place 
until about nine o'clock, when the sponge 
should fill the basin about two thirds full or a 
little over. Measure and sift three more cup- 
fuls of flour, add one heaping teaspoonful of 
salt and a pinch over, and put into a six-quart 
vessel (agate or earthenware). Add a heaping 
teaspoonful of lard and one tablespoonful of 
sugar, and mix. Then pour in the sponge; 
rinse out the basin with one and a half cupfuls 
of rich, creamy milk, even measure ; add this 
to the flour, and mix. Turn on a lightly floured 
board and knead into a soft springy mass, using 
an even half-cupful, or less, of flour (according 



2i6 Catering tor XLwo. 

to its compactness) for this purpose. More flour 
will make the bread hard. 

Put it back into the large basin ; cover closely 
and raise all night in a temperature of about 
68' or 70°. 

By seven in the morning or a little earlier, 
it should nearly or quite fill the basin. Turn 
out and knead just long enough to form into 
loaves. Use not more than a teaspoonful of 
flour for this last kneading, as the dough must 
be soft and elastic. 

Put into pans ; prick all over with a fork and 
raise, covered, an hour or two in about 90° of 
heat, when the dough should have more than 
doubled in size. 

For the first ten minutes the oven should be 
hot enough to lightly brown the top ; at the 
end of this time, moderate the fire a little, or 
place the bread in a cooler part of the oven, 
and continue to bake for thirty-five minutes 
longer. Use new milk when possible, other- 
wise scald and cool. In hot weather use it 
cold ; in cold weather, lukewarm. 

In cold weather set the dough on a feather 
cushion while it is rising, and cover with a 
woollen blanket at night. 

This bread is not at its best the day it is 
baked. It will keep a week properly protected 
from the air in an earthen crock, and should 
be entirely cold before being put away. 



Catecing tot Zv^o. 217 

Use the square-cornered bread pans, filling 
each a little less . than half full : when the 
dough r\^es to the top, it is ready for the oven. 

Flour varies in degree of compactness from 
one time to another, owing to certain con- 
ditions, so that a cupful from one bag will 
measure when sifled, more than a cupful from 
another bag of the same brand when that is 
sifted. Only experience and practice can teach 
one how to regulate and overcome these vari- 
ations. Wheat grown at diflFerent seasons 
yields a different quality of flour. Its age after 
grinding has something to do with its quality ; 
also a humid climate. 

When bread and cake deteriorate afler the 
middle of the barrel is passed, the cause will 
sometimes be found to be dampness. Drying 
the flour in the oven, sifting and cooling it, will 
in all probability improve it greatly. 

Flour should always be kept in a cool, dry 
place : a bag may stand on a shelf, but a barrel 
should be set on a raised frame of slats, for it 
surely will become damp if allowed to rest upon 
the basement floor. 

Flour of a very compact nature will require 
more wetting in the sponge. 

When mixing, if the sponge is stiff and flaky 
instead of smooth and moist, add a spoonful or 
two of lukewarm water, sprinkling it on and 
stirring it in. 



2i8 Catcting tot Zwo. 

Too mach moistiire will make bread tongli 
and flabby, and it will ma^e cake heavy ; on 
the other hand, too mach floor will make bread 
stiff and cake "floury." 

When of an nnnsually compact quality, try 
sifting before measuring, for cake. 

Some cake-makers have better success by 
greasing only the bottom of the pans, cutting 
the cake from the sides after it becomes cold. 

Cake should be put into a moderate oven at 
first, the heat being increased towards the last. 

This allows the batter to expand before the 
cake browns. 

Pastry flour is preferred by some people for 
cake and pastry; this is made from winter 
wheat. 

Flour made from spring wheat is considered 
best for bread. 

Spring-wheat flour generally requires more 
moisture than winter-wheat flour. 

If by adding extra wetting, by sifting or 
heating, flour still yields unsatisfactory results, 
mix with one or two cups of pastry flour, which 
will give bread of lighter texture. 

GLUTEN BREAD. 

Six cups entire-wheat flour, three cups of 
water, half a yeast-cake, one teaspoonful of salt» 
two tablespoonfuls New Orleans molasses. 

Make a sponge between six and seven p. M. 



Catetind tor ^wo. 219 

of one half the flour, half the water, and the 
yeast. At nine o'clock, or thereabouts, add 
the remainder of the water and flour, the salt 
and molasses, and knead with one half cup 
extra of flour, into a smooth, soft mass. 

Set to rise until morning, then make into 
two loaves, let rise again to double the size, 
and bake in a moderate oven about fifty min- 
utes. 

HOME-MADE YEAST. 

Put into a small preserving jar half a cake 
of yeast, and add one cupful of lukewarm water 
in which potatoes have been boiled (unsalted), 
and two even tablespoonfuls of sugar ; let stand 
covered in a warm place, (about 90°), to ferment 
for three hours. 

Half of this yeast is equal to half a yeast- 
cake, and in a cold place will keep sweet for 
a week. 

When any yeast is taken out replace it (three 
hours before using) with potato-water and one 
spoonful of sugar, and allow it to ferment, as at 
first directed. 

If at the end of a week none has been taken 
out, pour ofi" one half and replace with potato- 
water and sugar. Always stir well before 
taking any out, and in making bread use a half- 
cupful less of water on the hops. 

This yeast may be kept alive indefinitely if 



220 Caterind tot Zxoo. 

the potato- water and sugar are added at the 
right time (three hours before using), and the 
other directions are observed. After the first 
week the yeast should be used directly after 
fermenting or the bread may be sour. 

It should be renewed at least every seventh 
day. It can, however, be made daily if one 
requires yeast so often. If potato- water is not 
at hand pour a half-cupful of boiling water 
upon one tablespoonful of scraped raw potato, 
and use this when lukewarm. 

POTTED MEATS. 

Remove bones, fat, and gristle, from any cold 
pot-roast of veal, lamb, or poultry, and pound 
to a paste in a mortar (or use chopping-bowl 
and potato-masher). Add spice, or any of the 
seasoning sauces to taste, or season simply with 
salt and cayenne pepper. Put into an earthen 
dish and steam in the steamer for two or three 
hours. Meanwhile, cover the bones (broken if 
poultry) with water, and boil down to a glaze. 
Add this to the pounded meat with a teaspoon- 
ful of melted butter for each half-cupful of meat. 
Pack into small jars, holding enough for one 
occasion, and bake in a slow oven half an hour. 
When cold, pour over each jar a quarter of an 
inch of melted butter, and set away in a cold 
place. Boiled ham or tongue will need no salt. 
Scraps may be used for potting. 



Catering tor (Two. 221 

CLAM FRITTERS. 

If the soft-shell clams are used, they must be 
washed several times in their own liquor, with 
a little water added to free them from sand, 
straining the liquor each time. 

The rule for the batter is given in Fruit 
Fritters, and will require one pint of clams 
chopped in the chopping bowl. Leave out the 
salt and substitute a little of the clam-juice for 
the milk. 

CUCUMBERS SERVED WITH CREAM. 

Peel, slice very thin, and soak for an hour 
in ice-water, one cucumber and one onion. 

Drain, arrange in salad-bowl, add salt and 
pepper to taste, and pour on sweet cream which 
has had a sufficient quantity of cider vinegar 
stirred into it to make it agreeably sour. Add 
a pinch of salt. Serve with the main part of 
the meal. This is a delicious dish, and it is 
claimed that the cream makes the cucumbers 
digestible. 

SPICED FISH (SOMETIMES CALLED 
SOUSED OR POTTED FISH). 

Whitefish, bass, shad, or mackerel may be 
used. Cut the raw fish into pieces suitable in 
size to serve as a portion. Put them in layers 
with salt, peppercorns, two or three whole 



222 Catering tot XL\oo. 

cloves, and a little cinnamon stick, into an 
earthen jar, cover with cider vinegar, and bake 
covered in a very slow oven for about eight 
hours. Keep in a dry, cool place. 

Serve for luncheon or tea. The cloves and 
cinnamon can be omitted if desired. 

BIRDS. 

It is a good plan to vary the monotony of 
every-day fare, by having a bird for dinner as 
often as once a week^-chicken, duck, squab, 
pigeon, partridge, grouse, etc., can all be had 
at certain times in their season at moderate 
cost, if one takes the trouble to study the mar- 
ket. All of these birds make delicious fricas- 
sees, or they can be roasted in the oven, broiled 
or smothered, or be made into pies. The scraps 
can be made into croquettes for the next day's 
dinner, or potted for sandwiches. The rules 
given for preparing and cooking chicken and 
duck may be applied to game birds. 

A half-cupful of meat minced fine in chop- 
ping-bowl, after discarding all bone, gristle, 
and fat, will make two croquettes. Add salt 
and pepper to taste, and enough gravy (thick- 
ened with flour), to mould into egg-shaped 
rolls. Sprinkle liberally with powdered bread 
crambs, and brown in a teaspoon ful of hot 
butter in an uncovered frying-pan. If covered 
they will fall to pieces. If no gravy is at hand 



Catetfnd tor ^wo. 223 

with which to bind the meat together, make 
a thick drawn-butter and use that instead. 
Serve with a spoonful of bread-sauce made as 
follows : Soak one teaspoonful of rolled bread 
crumbs in one fourth of a cupful of boiling 
water ; add this to the butter left in the pan, 
after removing the croquettes, and boil until 
thick enough to spread evenly. Add any 
seasoning sauce, onion-, lemon-juice, or beef 
extract. Send to table with a sprig of celery 
or watercress, on each croquette. Croquettes 
may be made the day before they are needed 
and kept in the ice-box. Bread them just 
before frying. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD FOR LAYER 

CAKE. 

Two squares of chocolate, one half-cup of 
granulated sugar, one half-cup of rich milk, 
one rounded tablespoonful of flour, one half 
of an egg, one pinch of salt, one half-tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Stir the flour, salt, sugar, 
and chocolate broken into bits, together ; add 
the egg and three spoonfuls of the milk ; stir, 
and set over hot water, stirring until the choco- 
late is melted. Then add slowly the rest of 
the milk ; stand the saucepan on the stove and 
cook gently for a few minutes, being careful 
not to scorch, and stir constantly. It should 
be jelly-like but not stiff; take from the fire, 



224 Catering tor {Two. 

add vanilla, and when a little cool spread on 
the cakes. Frost the top layer, or dust on 
powdered sugar. 

INDIAN MUFFINS. 

Two heaping cupfuls of flour, one heaping 
cupful of yellow corn -meal, one half-cupful of 
butter (scant), one even cupful of sugar, three 
eggs, two cupfuls of milk, three teaspoonfiils of 
baking powder, one half level teaspoon ful 
of salt. Sift together thoroughly the flour 
meal, salt, and powder. Beat the eggs and 
sugar, and stir in the milk ; add this to the flour, 
etc., and at the last add the butter, melted. 
Bake in the deep muffin-pans in a moderately 
hot oven ; serve hot. Warm up by standing 
in a steamer on a plate. 

SOUSE (PICKLED PIGS' FEET). 

The butcher will send the feet parboiled. 
Brush and scrape them with scrupulous care, 
and boil in enough boiling water to cover for 
five or six hours, replenishing from the boiling 
teakettle as needed. Pigs* feet must be cooked 
very tender, almost jelly-like, but not so long 
that they will fall to pieces. When done, 
sprinkle all sides with salt (after taking them 
from the pot) and put them in an earthen jar. 
Add cayenne pepper, a few peppercorns, 
cloves, cinnamon, a bay leaf, and enough boil- 
ing cider vinegar to cover. In a cold place, 



Gaterlng tor XS^yoo. 225 

souse will keep a month or longer. Warm up 
in the chafing-dish or frying-pan. Serve with 
lettuce or watercress sandwiches. Souse makes 
a relishable little after-theatre supper. 

SAUSAGE MEAT. 

Three fourths of a pound of lean, and one 
fourth of a pound of fat pork, one level 
teaspoon ful of salt, one rounded teaspoonful of 
finely powdered sage ; add one half-teaspoonful 
of black pepper. Chop the pork very fine, or 
grind it, distribute the salt, etc., evenly through 
the meat and pack in an earthen dish. It will 
be ready to use in a day. In cold weather sev- 
eral pounds may be made up at one time ; pour 
melted (not hot) lard over the top to exclude 
the air ; cover closely and keep in a cold, even 
temperature. Corn-fed young pork makes the 
most delicious sausage. Home-dried sage is 
the best and most savory to use. 

TOMATO FRITTERS. 

Skin and slice cold, ripe tomatoes ; pepper and 
salt lightly, and dip each slice into a batter made 
of equal parts of milk, melted butter, and flour. 
Fry in a frying-pan, turn with a cake-turner so 
as not to break, and after browning one side 
cook slowly. 

Time, about twenty minutes. 

If preferred the tomatoes may be breaded and 
then fried in hot butter. 



226 Catectttd tot TTwo. 

CORN BREAD. 

One generous tablespoonful of batter, one 
fourth cup of sugar, and two eggs creamed 
together ; one and a half cupfiils of milk, two 
cupfdls of flour, one cupful of yellow Indian 
meal, three teaspoonfuls baking-powder, and an 
even half-teaspoonful of salt. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven, in a bread pan. Serve hot the first 
meal. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Four eggs, one cup of granulated sugar, three 
quarters of a cup of sifted flour, two pinches of 
salt, juice and grated rind of half a lemon. 
Whisk the yolks until thick and foaming, 
which will take some ten minutes. Add the 
sugar and grated lemon-rind and beat (always 
beating — never stirring), for ten minutes longer . 
add the whisked whites, beating them in 
lightly ; then sift in the flour and fold together 
lightly, then add the lemon-juice, beating as 
delicately as possible, and bake immediately, 
either in the deep sponge-cake pan, or the deep 
muffin-pans, for about twenty minutes, in a 
rather quick oven. To measure the flour for 
this cake it must be sifted into the measure, the 
salt added, and then sifted eight or nine times 
more. No baking-powder is required, for if put 
together as directed, it will be light enough. 
The whites of eggs for cake should be beaten 



Catering tor ^wo. 227 

only long enough to make a coarse light froth, 
and beating should cease the moment that they 
are stiff. For meringues, they can be beaten a 
little longer ; too much beating toughens them. 

SPAGHETTI WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Spaghetti is the small pipe macaroni. It can 
be cooked augratin (that is, baked with cheese), 
or served buttered with grated cheese passed, or 
with a rich tomato-sauce as follows : Into a 
quart of fast-boiling water put a cupful of 
spaghetti broken into pieces ; add half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and boil for several minutes, 
stirring to keep the pieces separated. 

Cover and stand the pot where it will keep 
just below the boiling point, for twenty m&i- 
utes ; then bring forward and boil steadily for 
about thirty-five minutes. 

It must cook just long enough to mash easily. 
Too long cooking will destroy its nutritive 
qualities. The cover may be left partly off dur- 
ing the last half-hour, so that the water may 
cook away, thus avoiding the necessity for 
draining. Macaroni is sweeter not to be drained. 
To make the sauce, put into another saucepan 
a slice of onion, a clove, and a sprig of parsley 
or celery. Add a heaping tablespoonful of but- 
ter and fry delicately ; add a tablespoonful of 
flour, and stir until a pale brown ; then add two 
cupfuls of cooked and strained tomatoes. Cook 



228 Catetttid tot ^wo. 

a few minutes; remove the onion, clove, and 
parsley ; add the spaghetti. Salt, and pepper to 
taste, and serve hot. Macaroni may be warmed 
up by setting the dish covered in a place where 
it will heat but not cook. It may have bouillon 
added and make a delicious soup. It may have 
milk and a little soda added, making a tomato 
bisque. 



FANCY DESSERTS. 

STRAWBERRY WHIP. 

Mash to a pulp one capful of ripe strawberries, 
and sweeten to taste. Add one teaspoon ful of 
gelatine soaked in a tablespoonful of cold water 
and then melted ; also the white of an egg 
whisked to a froth. Set on ice, and serve ice 
cold in champagne glasses. Pass lad3rfingers. 

Cherries or raspberries may be served in the 
same way. 

A teaspoonful of whipped cream to each por- 
tion is a great addition. 

COFFEE BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Soak for half an hour one heaping table- 
spoonful of gelatine, in one quarter of a cupful 
of milk. Beat until very creamy (in an agate 
saucepan) the yolk of one egg, and two heaping 
tablespoon fuls of granulated sugar, and pour on 
this slowly, stirring continually, two thirds of 
a cupful of milk, boiling hot. Set into another 
saucepan containing boiling water, and cook 

22g 



230 Catering tor tTwo. 

four minutes, stirring constantly from the bot- 
tom and sides. 

Then add the soaked gelatine, stir and cook 
one minute longer, and add a pinch of salt. 

When cold, and before it is set, add half a 
cupful of cold, strong coflFee. (Java is best.) 

As soon as the cofifee is well stirred in, whip 
in the cream, which is prepared in this way. 

Whip to a stiff froth five tablespoonfuls of 
cream ; add the white of the egg whisked to a 
stiff froth, then add the coffee and pour into 
a shallow glass dish. Set in a cold, but not 
freezing place for several hours : in summer set 
on ice. When thoroughly set, add the Sea-foam 
cream, flavored with two teaspoonfuls of coffee. 

To be a success the quantities must be meas- 
ured very carefully ; it is a delicious dish when 
made just right. 

Five even teaspoonfuls of gelatine will make 
the one heaping tablespoonfiil required. 

Two heaping dessert-spoonfuls of coffee in 
two thirds of a cupful of boiling water will 
make the coffee. 

To get a level teaspoon fill of gelatine, press 
down with a broad knife-blade. 

CARAMEL SEA-FOAM CREAM MOUSSE. 

Sea-foam cream is made of whipped cream 
and whipped gelatine, and it cannot be a suc- 
cess unless both will whip perfectly. The cream 



Catering tot XLwo^ 231 

must be stiff, and the gelatine a solid froth be- 
fore they are put together. 

Put one cupful of ice-cold cream and two tea- 
spoonfuls of caramel into a cold bowl set in an- 
other of cracked ice and salt. 

Whip until stiflf ; then add three tablespoon- 
fuls of confectioner's sugar, a few drops of ex- 
tract of vanilla, and a few grains of salt. 

Soak four level teaspoonfuls of gelatine in 
twenty teaspoonfuls of cold water ten minutes. 

Then melt over the teakettle, and when a 
little cool whip until it is a solid froth, which 
will take about ten minutes. 

Add this to the cream, and whip all together 
thoroughly ; turn into a cold mould, and pack 
in ice and salt for three hours. 

When ready to serve, turn out on a cold dish, 
and serve with any seasonable fruit, such as 
berries, or oranges cut in slices. Ripe peaches 
may be peeled and halved, the stone-cavities 
filled with cracked ice, and covered with sugar ; 
half a fine peach is a portion. The fruit should 
be chilled. Care should be taken to have all 
utensils perfectly dry and clean, as gelatine 
will not whip to a froth if salt, cream, white of 
egg, or any foreign substance touches it before 
frothing. 

Cream sold in half-pint glass jars is reliable 
for whipping. 



833 Catering for TTwo. 

SEA-FOAM CREAM FOR PUDDINGS. 

Whip to a stiff froth four tablespoonftils of 
cream ; add two teaspoonfuls of confectioner's 
sugar and a few grains of salt. 

Soak one level teaspoonful of gelatine in four 
teaspoonfuls of cold water ten minutes ; then 
melt over the teakettle or in the oven. 

When a little cool, whip with a wire spoon 
six or seven minutes ; it should be well frothed 
at the end of this time. Add immediately to the 
whipped cream, and beat well for a minute or 
two ; flavor with vanilla, wine, coffee, or cara- 
mel, according to the dish it is to be used 
on. 

Pour on the cold pudding or cake, and set on 
ice for an hour or two. 



BOILED RICE WITH WHIPPED-EGG 

SAUCE. 

Wash, but do not soak, a scant half-cupful of 
rice (Carolina rice is best). Pour this into two 
cupfuls of milk, stirring until it boils ; then add 
an even half-teaspoonful of salt, cover closely, 
and boil very slowly for half an hour on a cool 
part of the stove. Serve hot, either with 
whipped-egg sauce, or with butter and sugar, 
or cream and sugar, or with tutti-frutti sauce. 



Catering tor ^wo. 233 

TUTTI-FRUTTI SAUCE FOR PLAIN 
PUDDINGS. 

Seed half a cupful of table raisins, pour over 
them a cupful of cold water, and set on the 
stove to get hot gradually. Simmer half an 
hour ; then add a teaspoonful each of candied 
citron, orange, and lemon peel, chopped fine ; 
also, if desired, a few blanched almonds, also 
chopped, and one third of a cupful of sugar ; 
simmer until the candied fruit is soft enough 
to break when pressed between the fingers. 
Thicken with one level teaspoonful of corn- 
starch blended with one heaping teaspoonful 
of butter. Add brandy or wine. 

If the water boils away, add more from the 
boiling kettle. 

SAUCE FOR STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Beat together one tablespoonful of butter and 
two of sugar. Add the yolk of an egg and 
beat several minutes ; then whisk in the frothed 
white and one third of a cupful of boiling 
water. 

Cook over the teakettle about two minutes, 
and add any part of or the whole of a cup of 
cream. 

Keep hot, but do not cook. 

Heat the cream before adding it to the egg 
mixture. Salt to taste and flavor with a table- 
spoonful of sherry. 



234 Catetfng tor (Two* 

FRUIT FRITTERS : PEACHES, APPLES, 

OR BERRIES. 

One half-cupful flour, one third cupful milk, 
one half-teaspoonful baking-powder, one egg, 
a large pinch of salt, one dessert-spoonful of 
melted butter, one pint of sliced fruit or berries 
or stoned cherries. 

Sift flour, baking-powder and salt together ; 
beat the egg ; add the butter and milk, then the 
flour, and lastly the fruit, lightly sugared if 
desired. 

Bake in spoonfuls on a griddle. 

Serve hot, either with butter and powdered 
sugar or hot sugar syrup, (one cup of sugar 
cooked until clear with one third of a cup of 
water). Corn fritters may be made of this rule 
by adding a pint of grated or chopped com 
to the batter. 

MUSKMELONS WITH ICE-CREAM AND 

FRUIT. 

Put small muskmelons on ice, and just be- 
fore serving, cut in halves, remove the seeds, 
and serve with a spoonful of ice-cream in each 
half. 

Ice-cold whipped cream may be used in place 
of ice-cream. Flavor and sweeten to taste. 

If Sea-foam cream is preferred, set the 
melons on ice for an hour or two before and 
after putting in the cream. 



-^ 



Catering tot (Two. 235 

If musk melons are not sweet and delicious, 
cut them into cubes (of course rejecting the 
rind) and serve slightly salted with sweetened 
cream, or cream and powdered sugar. Melons 
that would be disappointing by themselves, 
are excellent when served with well sugared 
fruit. 

A single variety of fruit may be used, or a 
mixture of berries and cherries, pineapple, 
peaches, plums, grapes and orange juice in the 
following way : Shred the pineapple, peel and 
quarter the peaches, quarter and stone the 
plums and seed the grapes. 

Mix together, add a little orange juice and 
some brandy or Jamaica rum, and when it is ice 
cold arrange in small melon-halves, one for 
each portion. 

Sugar to taste. 



LUNCHEON DESSERT. FRENCH TOAST 
WITH SUGAR, SYRUP, OR HONEY. 

Beat an egg with a gill of milk ; add salt to 
taste ; dip slices of bread, or the steamed raised 
dumpling in this batter, and fry a delicate 
brown in hot butter. 

Melt one cupful of sugar with half a cupful 
of water, cook a few minutes, flavor with lemon 
extract, brandy, or fruit syrup, and serve hot. 



236 Catering tor XLv^o. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Sift together one teaspoonful each of nutmeg, 
allspice, cloves, salt, two teaspoonfuls cin- 
namon, three cups flour, and one heaping tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. 

Add to this one pound of currants, one pound 
of raisins, seeded, and half a pound of citron 
sliced fine. 

Beat two eggs into one cup of molasses, cream 
one cup of butter with one cup of brown sugar ; 
add to the molasses ; beat well ; add one cupful 
of strong coffee, and then the flour, etc. Bake 
two and a half hours in a slow oven, careful not 
to let it bum. 

In a close tin box, this cake has been kept 
for three years. 

GOLD AND SILVER CAKE WITH OR 
WITHOUT FRUIT. 

Use the rule for loaf cake as to quantities, 
beating, etc., for each cake excepting the eggs. 
The three eggs will do for the two cakes ; the 
yolks for the gold cake, and the whites for the 
silver cake. 

Add two tablespoon fills of water to the gold 
cake and if desired two cupfuls of seeded raisins 
well floured. 

Citron is the proper fruit for silver cake. 

Slice half a pound in thin slices and add 



/ 



.-^ 



Catering tor (Two. 237 

about two tablespoon fuls of flour. (No extra 
flour will be needed if the citron is not used.) 

Flavor with a few drops of almond extract. 

Sometimes fruit is found to be more evenly 
distributed if it is put in the pan in alternate 
layers with the batter. 

Citron cake will keep a month or longer. 

POUND CAKE. 

Three eighths of a cupful of butter, one cupful 
of flour, put lightly into the cup, one slightly 
rounded teaspoonful of baking-powder, a large 
pinch of salt, one half-cupful of granulated 
sugar, two eggs, one teaspoonful of brandy or 
other flavoring. 

. With the hand cream the butter ; add the flour 
(sifted three times with salt and powder) and 
stir until light, (it should look like whipped 
cream at this stage) then add the sugar and 
flavoring and stir for several minutes. Add 
the eggs (unbeaten) and beat (still with the 
hand) for two minutes longer. 

Bake in a moderate oven about forty minutes. 

MOLASSES CAKE. 

Stir together in a mixing-bowl, half a cupful 
of Porto Rico molasses, half a cupful of dark- 
est brown sugar, one third of a cupful of 
softened (not melted) butter, one egg, half a tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, the same of ginger, a 



^ 



238 Catectnd tor ^wo« 

pinch each of cloves, allspice, mace (or nutmeg) 
and salt. 

Sift with one and a half cupfuls of flour, one 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar ; add two cupfuls 
of raisins, which have been stoned and steamed 
(on a plate) for an hour in a steamer. Add one 
fourth of a cupful of warm water (in which has 
been dissolved one half of a level teaspoonful of 
soda), then add the flour and raisins. Stir 
lightly, but thoroughly, and pour into a shallow 
pan lined with greased paper and bake one hour 
in a moderate oven. 

When a broom straw will come out free from 
dough, the cake is done. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Stir together until thoroughly mixed, one 
cup either of butter or beef drippings, one cup- 
ful of molasses, one cupful brown sugar, pressed 
down, two heaping teaspoonfuls ground ginger, 
and half a level teaspoonful of soda, dissolved 
in four heaping tablespoonfuls of cold water. 
Add four cups of flour dipped from the bag, and 
sifted after measuring. Roll out an eighth of an 
inch in thickness and cut with a 2|-inch cutter. 
Lift with a broad knife-blade or cake-turner, 
and arrange on the inverted bottom of buttered 
tins ; bake in a moderate hot oven, very careful 
not to bum. If butter or the fat from corned beef 
is used, a pinch of salt will be required, but with 
lard or beef drippings salt to taste. 



Catering tot XTwo. 239 

Porto Rico molasses makes a dark colored 
snap and it is preferred on this account as well 
as for its flavor by some cooks. 

New Orleans molasses, on the other hand, 
has a yellow hue and is more delicate in flavor. 
Mash the soda very fine and smooth off with a 
knife-blade ; then divide exactly in the middle, 
lengthwise of the spoon. 

Flour the board and rolling-pin and only roll 
out about one eighth of the quantity at a time. 
Put the trimmings aside and roll out by them- 
selves at the last. Use as little flour as possible 
in rolling out. This quantity will make one 
hundred snaps. Keep in air-tight glass jars in 
a dry place. 

HOT GINGERBREAD AND WAFERS. 

Mix together half a cupful of butter (softened 
but not melted) two thirds of a cupful of New 
Orleans molasses, three tablespoonfuls of cold 
water in which has been dissolved one third of 
a level teaspoonful of soda (mashed before 
measuring) and one teaspoonful of ground 
ginger. 

Add one heaping cupful of flour dipped from 
the bag and sifted after measuring, with a pinch 
of salt. 

Stir till smooth and pour one half of the bat- 
ter into a very shallow pan ; bake in a hot oven 



240 Catering tor tTwo. 

and serve hot, breaking into portions instead of 
cutting. 

Put the remainder of the batter in half tea- 
spoonfuls (two inches apart) upon the bottom 
of inverted tins lightly buttered, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

These wafers are crisp when fresh ; if they 
become soft, set them in a hot oven for a few 
minutes and when cold they will be crisp again. 

Served hot, with cream for sauce, gingerbread 
makes a very nice dessert. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. (HOT OR COLD.) 

One cup of molasses, one half-cup butter, 
one fourth of a cup of warm water, one level 
teaspoon ful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of ginger, 
one egg, two cups of sifted flour. 

Stir the soda into the molasses until it foams, 
beat in the egg, add the butter (softened but 
not melted) then the water, ginger and flour. 

Bake in a shallow tin about thirty minutes 
in a moderate oven. 

Put the flour lightly in the cup when measur- 
ing, as too much flour will spoil the cake. 

A pinch of salt may be added. If the taste 
of soda is objected to, add half a teaspoon ful of 
cream of tartar to the flour. 



dateriitd tor ^wo* 241 

FONDANT, OR FOUNDATION FOR CREAM 

CANDIES. 

Stir while dissolving on the edge of the stove, 
two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one cupful of 
water, a few grains of salt, and a big pinch of 
cream of tartar ; then boil gently without further 
stirring. 

Wipe away any crystals that form above the 
edge of the syrup while boiling, but do not 
touch the syrup or jar it, or it will grain. Use 
for the purpose a sharp stick with a piece of 
wet muslin upon it. 

Boil, not too vigorously, fifteen minutes, then 
dip a smooth stick into ice-water, then into the 
syrup, and back again into the ice-water. If 
the syrup thickly adhering to the stick will be- 
come like soft putty when worked between the 
thumb and finger, it is ready to turn out. Keep 
on testing every minute until this stage is 
reached, then turn it out into a deep and rather 
flaring earthen bowl, lightly oiled or buttered. 

Let it cool a few minutes, and when the finger- 
tip pressed gently, will dent it, stir (before a 
crust forms) round and round with a stout 
wooden spoon, until it becomes a snow-white 
creamy mass. 

Put in the flavoring while stirring : a half- 

teaspoonful each of rose and vanilla is a good 

combination which blends well with nuts, 

chocolate, or candied fruit. 
16 



( 



^ 



242 Catering tor (Two* 

Elneading improves the fondant. 

For sugar-plums, form the fondant around 
whole nut meats, dip into granulated sugar and 
shake violently in a bowl with a few additional 
spoonfuls of sugar : almonds are the nuts gen- 
erally used for this candy. 

An inch piece of the fondant with an English 
walnut meat on each side makes another varia- 
tion. 

For chocolate cream bar, melt one half-square 
of chocolate over the teakettle, and stir in a 
lump of fondant the size of an egg. A knife 
and fork facilitates this process. 

Put a layer of plain fondant on either side, an 
inch in thickness and cover all over with a coat 
of melted chocolate (one square will be enough) 
flavored with a few drops of vanilla. 

In a day, this may be cut into squares. 

For nut bar, mix nuts with the fondant, press 
into a square, and in a day cut into small cubes. 
Candied fruit, candied orange peel, crystallized 
ginger, etc., may also be covered with fondant 
for sugar-plums. 

If properly made, fondant will keep for 
months in air-tight glass jars and be improved 
in quality. 

If the syrup boils a little too long, the fond- 
ant will not mass, but on being stirred will 
crumble when it reaches the snow-white stage. 
When this occurs a few drops of water or wine 



Catetfitd tot TTwo. 243 

may be sprinkled over the surface and stirred 
in (a drop too much will spoil it). 

Set the bowl in a basin of boiling water, boil 
and stir constantly until smooth. If the stirring 
is not kept up the fondant will turn into syrup. 
To be right it should be pliable enough to be 
moulded into any shape when it is cool enough 
to handle. 

If the fondant grains from too much boiling 
or jarring of the syrup, a few spoonfuls of water 
may be added and a new trial made, melting, 
boiling and testing as before, or it may be 
melted into syrup for the table. 

If the fondant afler being creamed seems soft 
and gummy and does not retain its shape it 
has not been boiled quite long enough. 

This condition is worse than the other. 

To remedy it knead in confectioner's sugar, 
until it will take no more : the candies will be 
eatable, but that is all. 

Vanilla and sherry make a fine flavor. 

The novice in candy-making, would do well 
to try only a quarter of the quantities given, at 
first. 

Begin testing after the sugar has been cook- 
ing ten minutes, for small quantities. 

A dry atmosphere is desirable while boiling 
syrup for candies, and it is well to choose a 
fine bright day for the work. 

Sarah E. Craig, in 20th Century Cookery^ says : 



244 Catering tor Cwo. 

"I would snggest the sugar tbermometer to 
those having trouble in testing their symps for 
<andy-niaking. 

" One can be bought for $1.75, and will save 
the amatenr a world of trouble. In making fond- 
ant the thermometer will roister about 2388, 
and the syrup is then ready to turn out." 

A very satisfactory cream can be easily made 
with confectioner's sugar, but it is not nearly 
so good as that just described. 

Beat the white of an egg with a tablespoonfnl 
of water or cream, and stir in confectioner's 
sugar until enough has been added to form a 
pliable dough. Flavor while mixing. 

Fruit juice or fruit syrups may be used in- 
stead of water or cream. 

If preferred, the egg may be omitted. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 

HOW TO MAKE COFFEE. 

There are various ways of making coflFee, and 
where one fails, others may be tried with suc- 
cess. 

Some kinds of coflPee are best when made by 
the French method, which consists in pouring 
boiling water on the finely ground coffee placed 
upon a set of strainers in a cylinder, and allow- 
ing it to percolate slowly through. 

Another way is to mix the coffee with egg 
and cold water, and bring it to a boil ; then 
settle, strain, and serve. 

Yet another is to mix coffee and egg^ add a 
little cold water, and then boiling water ; bring 
to a boil ; stand to settle ; strain, and serve. 

In all cases the pot should be tight as possi- 
ble, to prevent the escape of the aroma, and the 
coffee should be served soon after being made. 

An earthen pipkin makes a good coffee-pot : 
place a doubled cheese-cloth under the lid, and 
tuck it in closely. The cheese-cloth is to be 
used as a strainer, and it must be thoroughly 
washed and boiled every time it is used, and 

245 



246 Catering tor (Two. 

renewed often, as otherwise the flavor of the 
coffee would be spoiled. 

Buy only the best grades of coffee, and when 
possible have it ground at home. A third each 
of Java, Mocha, and Maracaibo makes a favor- 
ite blend. Another is two thirds Java and one 
third Mocha. 

To make one quart of coffee take one heap- 
ing cupful of coffee, one third of a raw egg, half 
a cupful of cold water, and one quart of boiling. 

To make one cupful of coffee take two heap- 
ing dessert-spoonfuls of coffee, two spoonfuls of 
cold water, one teaspoonful of raw egg, and one 
cupful of boiling water. 

Too much egg will weaken the co£fee. 

MINCE-MEAT. 

Five pounds of cooked beef. After the meat 
is chopped, measure it in a bowl, and to each 
bowl of meat 'add two bowls of chopped apples 
and one of chopped raisins ; mix these together, 
and set aside. 

Chop a pound of suet fine, add one heaping 
tablespoonful of salt, the same each of cinnamon 
and allspice, two tablepoonfuls of clove, two 
nutmegs, and not quite a tablespoonful of 
mace. Add also one pound of sugar, a scant 
pint of molasses, and one quart of cider ; put 
these ingredients in a kettle, and let them come 
to a boil ; this melts the sugar and suet and 
mixes the spices. 



Catering tor Zxoo. 247 

Take from the fire, and when cool add to the 
meat, apples and raisins, and stir in, finally, 
half a pint of whiskey. The sugar, salt, and 
spices may be varied to suit the individual 
taste. 

CANDIED ORANGE PEEL. 

Soak the orange peel in a brine strong enough 
to float a potato, for several days ; then steep in 
cold water until it is so tender that it can be 
broken easily under slight pressure. The water 
should be changed six or eight times in order 
to make the flavor of the peel more delicate. 
Drain for several hours ; then cut it into inch 
squares ; measure, and put it on the back part 
of the stove, with an equal amount of granu- 
lated sugar. When thoroughly dissolved, spread 
upon platters, and keep in the open oven or in 
the sunshine until candied, which will be in a 
few days. Pack away in covered glass jars. 

Lemon peel may be prepared in the same 
way. 

CANNED PEACHES. 

Allow one pint of water and one cupful of 
sugar for every quart of peaches. Boil sugar 
and water for ten minutes ; then add the peaches 
(peeled, but not stoned), a few at a time, and 
boil until a broom-straw will pierce them easily ; 
be sure to have them cooked enough. 

Put the peaches in jars (two thirds full), boil, 



248 catering tot (Two. 

and skim the syrup, and pour it over the peaches 
until the jars overflow. 

Seal at once. 

Use new rubbers each season, as old ones are 
apt to be unelastic. If there is not enough 
syrup for the last jar, make more of sugar and 
water ; canned fruit is always improved by 
plenty of syrup. Keep canned goods in a cool, 
dry place, the darker the better. 

PRESERVED PEACHES. 

Select sound, ripe peaches of a fine, rich 
variety ; peel, halve, and stone them. 

Weigh, and make a syrup of an equal amount 
of granulated sugar. 

To every three pounds of sugar add one cup- 
ful of water ; melt, and boil ten minutes ; then 
drop in the peaches and cook them until a 
broom-straw will pierce them easily. 

Skim carefully. 

Put the fruit in jars, boil and skim the syrup 
a few minutes longer, fill the jars to overflowing 
with the syrup, and seal. 

A few stones may be boiled with the syrup, 
and two or three put in each jar to flavor. 

This is the old-fashioned peach preserve of our 
grandmothers. 

When serving, a teaspoonful of fine brandy 
may be added to the juice for each portion. 

Peaches may be easily peeled by pouring 



Catering tor Uvsfo. 249 

boiling water on them and allowing them to 
stand about a minute ; a longer time would 
soften tbem too much. Scald only a half a 
dozen at a time. 

Keep peeled fruit covered with a wet cloth to 
prevent discoloration. 

When peeling with a knife, a good plan is to 
halve and stone them before peeling. 

SPICED PEACHES. 

Seven pounds of peaches, three and a half 
pounds of sugar, one scant pint of cider vine- 
gar, half an ounce of stick cinnamon, half an 
ounce of whole cloves, half a teaspoonful of 
whole allspice, and one quarter of a nutmeg 
broken into bits. 

Make a syrup by boiling the sugar and vine- 
gar together about ten minutes. Put in enough 
peeled peaches to cover the bottom of the kettle 
and cook gently and steadily until a broom- 
straw will pierce them easily. Skim the peaches 
out carefdlly ; put them on a platter and cook 
the remainder of the fruit in the same way. 

When all are done, drain oflf the juice, put it 
in the kettle, boil up, and skim off the froth. 

Put the peaches in a stone jar, pour the hot 
syrup over them, tie the spices in a bag and lay 
it on top ; cover closely, and at the end of a week 
pour off the juice, boil up, and pour it hot over 
the peaches. 



250 Catering tot (Two. 

If the vinegar is too sharp, a few spoonfuls 
of water may be added. If preferred a few of 
the cloves may.be stuck in the peaches before 
boiling. 

Some cooks prefer to leave the skins on 
peaches put up this way, considering them 
richer. Use late fruit and select only the best 
and largest. 

The bag for spices should be of very coarse 
muslin and must be large enough to cover the 
top. 

Keep in a cool, dry place where the tempera- 
ttu"e is even. 

QUINCES. 

Wash, peel, and cut into slices an inch thick ; 
remove the cores and cook until very tender in 
water. Skim out the fruit and set aside. 

Add sugar to the water ; boil and skim ; re- 
turn the quinces to this syrup ; boil up and 
seal at once in glass jars. 

Pour water on the seeds and skins, boil and 
strain and add sugar ; this makes a very good 
jelly. 

Follow the rule for crab-apple jelly. 

For quince preserves use a pound of sugar to 
one of fruit. 

PRESERVED PINEAPPLE. 
Make a syrup of one pint of sugar and half a 



Catering tor XTwo. 251 

cupful of water ; boil until clear, and add a pint 
of pineapple which has. been peeled, sliced, and 
cored. 

Cook fifteen minutes. 

Put in glass jars, and when cold tie the jars 
up in thick brown paper to exclude the light. 

CANNED CHERRIES. 

One quart of fine large cherries, three heaping 
tablespoonfuls granulated sugar and four table- 
spoonfuls of water. 

Boil water and sugar until clear ; add the 
cherries which have been stemmed, washed, 
and drained, and cook them, covered, ten min- 
utes. Seal in pint jars. 

More sugar will make a richer preserve. 

Prepared in this way cherries are very nice 
for steamed puddings, but they may also be 
used as a sauce by adding more sugar at the 
table. 

In canning always fill the jars brimming full ; 
let them stand a minute to settle; then add 
more juice and seal, hot. 

PLUMS. (DAMSON OR LARGE BLUE 
VARIETY). STEWED OR FOR CANNING. 

Wipe the plums with a soft cloth : use the 
firmest for preserving, the others for stewing. 
Measure, and allow nearly an equal amount 



252 Catering tot tTwo. 

of granulated sugar and the same of water. 
Cook sugar and water ten minutes after it boils 
clear. 

Add the fruit and cook several minutes or 
until a broom straw will pierce easily. A heap- 
ing pint of plums will take a scant pint of 
sugar, and an even pint of water. Seal hot in 
air-tight glass jars. 

Plum juice diluted to taste with water and 
cracked ice makes a delicious and refreshing 
drink. 

GRAPE PRESERVES. 

Use Catawba grapes and pulp them. 

Measure the skins and allow as much sugar 
as there are skins, and the same amount of 
water. 

Put half of the sugar in the oven to get hot, 
and put the other half in a kettle with the 
water ; boil until clear and add the skins, a few 
at a time, so that the syrup may not stop 
boiling. 

Keep the pot covered, and do not stir, as 
stirring will cause the skins to lose their plump- 
ness and become tough. 

Shaking the pot occasionally will prevent 
burning. It will take a quart of skins about 
half an hour to cook. 

Cook the pulps about ten minutes to loosen 
the seeds, and when cool enough, strain closely 
through a piece of cheese-cloth. Put back 



Catering tor (Two. 253 

over the fire, boil and skim ; then add to the 
skins, stir, add the hot sugar, boil a minute or 
two, and put away in glasses the same as jelly. 
In cooking syrup or anything that needs 
skimming let the vessel boil only on one side ; 
the froth will then be thrown to the opposite 
side and may be easily removed. 

PRESERVED CITRON. 

Cut citron in halves ; turn the cut side down 
and slice with a broad, strong knife in slices a 
little more than an inch wide. 

Peel, seed, and cut into inch-size pieces. 

Soak over night in cold water (a quart of 
water to every quart of fruit, with a lump of 
alum the size of a large pea dissolved in each 
quart of water). Next morning rinse the citron 
in salted water (a teaspoonful of salt to a quart 
of water), and cook forty minutes in fresh warm 
water, (a quart of water to one of citron). 

Meanwhile, make a syrup of six pounds of 
sugar and a pint of water in which two ounces 
of scraped and sliced ginger root has been boiled. 

The ginger may be soaked first for half an 
hour or so in cold water to make it scrape 
more easily. Slice, and pour on it three cups 
of cold water, bring slowly to a boil and use 
two cups (one pint) for the syrup, throwing 
away the remainder. 

Boil the syrup about ten minutes, tie half an 



254 Caterina for XTwo. 

otmce oT ctitfiamoii sticlc, one teaspoonfol of 
whole doves, and balf a teaspoooltil of -whole 
allspice in a piece of net or cheese-cloth and 
cook this in the symp. Add the citroa after 
draining and cook slowly half an hoor. 

Skint out and pat in a stone jar. 

Add to the syrop two thinly sliced lemons 
which have been cooked fifteen minntes in half 
a cnpfnl of cold water (nse water and all) and 
boil and skim for half an hoar ; then poor 
over the citron. 

The spices and ginger root may be added also 
if preferred. 

Keep in a cold place. When cold add one fine 
orange thinly sliced. 

The following is the exact pi o paition of 
ingredients : 

Six pounds of cat-op citron, six pounds of 
granulated sugar, one pint of water, alum size 
of a pea for each quart of citron, two ounces 
ginger root, two lemons, half a cupful of water, 
one half an ounce of stick cinnamon, one tea- 
spoonful whole cloves, one half-teaspoonfhl all- 
spice, one orange. 

CRAB-APPLE JELLY. 

Cover the apples with cold water and cook 
slowly until they are as soft as mush, then drain 
through a cloth laid over a sieve ; do not press 
the fruit in the least. 



Catetfnd tor (Two. 255 

Put the juice on the fire and cook a few 
minutes ; then add an equal amount of sugar ; 
boil and skim and put away in tumblers. 

As apples yield a different quality of juice at 
different seasons, it is better to make up only a 
quart at first, and this will serve as a guide for 
the rest of the jelly, how long to boil, and how 
much water and sugar will be needed. 

GRAPE JELLY. 

Use Concord grapes ; stem them, and keep 
them at the boiling-point in an agate saucepan 
(uncovered) on the back of the stove for four 
hours (stirring occasionally), to evaporate and 
get soft. 

Mash with a wooden potato-masher, and stir 
with a wooden spoon. 

Boil gently for another hour, or until the 
seeds drop out, careful not to let them burn. 
Stir often. 

When cool enough, strain, a cupful at a time, 
through a piece of new canton-flannel wrung 
out of cold water. Measure the juice with ex- 
actness, and put an equal amount of granulated 
sugar on pans or platters in the oven, to get 
very hot, but not to melt, stirring occasionally. 

While the sugar is heating, cook the juice 
in a clean agate saucepan, uncovered, half an 
hour. 

Do not stir, but skim at the end of each fif- 



256 Catering tor ^wo. 

teen minutes. Now add the hot sugar, and stir 
with a wooden spoon until it is all dissolved ; 
then boil gently five minutes without stirring ; 
skim ; boil again for five minutes; skim again, 
and it is ready to put in glasses. 

Put a silver teaspoon in each glass, and fill 
to the top ; remove the spoon at once, as metal 
of any kind will discolor the jelly. 

Put the jelly away, uncovered, for a day in a 
dry place, or in the sunshine ; then cover with 
rounds of writing-paper dipped in brandy or al- 
cohol, and tie over this rounds of paper. 

Allow no water to touch the grapes ; do not 
wash them, and see that all utensils are per- 
fectly dry and clean. 

If the foregoing directions are followed ex- 
actly, the jelly will be clear and rich in color, 
and of a perfect consistency. Keep in a dry, 
cool closet. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Put the currants, unstemmed and unwashed, 
in an agate kettle. Heat, and mash with a 
wooden pestle, or spoon, and cook gently for 
fifteen minutes after boiling begins. 

When cool enough not to bum the hand, 
strain, a cupful at a time, through a piece of stout 
cloth wrung very dry from hot water ; press out 
every bit of juice. 

Measure, and put an equal amount of granu- 






Catering tor ^wo. 257 

lated sugar in the oven to get very hot. Boil 
the juice for fifteen minutes slowly ; skim ; 
then stir in the hot sugar ; boil ten or twelve 
minutes, and put into tumblers. One quart of 
currants will make two tumblers of jelly. Let 
no water touch the fruit during the process. 

SYRUP FROM BERRIES. 

Put very ripe perfect berries in an earthen- 
ware pot ; mash, and let them stand over night 
in a warm room. Next day heat, but do not 
boil ; strain through a cloth ; measure ; add an 
equal amount of granulated sugar ; set on the 
stove, and stir until the sugar is dissolved, but 
do not cook ; then seal hot in small, air-tight 
glass jars. 

This syrup may be used for flavoring jellies 
or punches, or for making sherbets. 

UNFERMENTED GRAPE-JUICE. 

Ten cupfuls Concord grapes, six cupfuls 
water, two cupfuls sugar. Mash the grapes, 
and cook in three cupfuls of the water; strain ; 
add to the skins and seeds three more cupfuls 
of water ; cook again ; strain ; add to the 
strained juice the two cupfuls of sugar, and 
boil five minutes. 

Skim, and bottle, hot, in air-tight jars. 

In serving, add sugar and a little lemon-juice 

(or thin slices of lemon) ; fill glasses half full 
17 






258 Catetitid tor Z\oo. 

of cracked ice ; pour in the grape juice, and a 
simple but delicious drink is the result. 

LEMONADE. 

Ten tablespoonfuls lemon-juice ; ten heaping 
tablespoonfuls granulated sugar ; one orange, 
sliced very thin ; two even quarts of ice-water. 

IvEMON EXTRACT. 

Cut the yellow rind from six fine large lemons, 
as thinly as possible, and cover with three fourths 
of a pint of best alcohol. Put in a wide-mouthed 
bottle and cork tightly. It will be ready for 
use in a few days. 

EXTRACT OF VANILLA. 

Break one vanilla-bean into inch pieces ; 
cover with cold water and let it stand in a 
tightly corked bottle four days. 

Then add half a pint of the best alcohol : it 
will be ready for use in a week. 

Turn this off into another bottle, and add to 
the vanilla-bean a little more than half a cupful 
of alcohol ; this will be ready by the time the 
first extract is all used. 

The bottles should have glass stoppers. 

Vanilla-beans are long, thin pods which sell 
for twenty cents each and can only be found at 
the large stores dealing in fine groceries. It is 



i 



Catering tot trwo« 259 

a great advantage to make one^s extract, as 
most of that which is sold is not made from 
vanilla-beans at all. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

Four quarts of green tomatoes sliced in nearly 
inch-thick slices. 

One quart of white onions, and six green 
peppers sliced thinly. 

Put them with salt in layers in an earthen 
vessel to stand over night. Use a rounded half- 
cupful of fine table salt. 

In the morning drain for an hour ; then pour 
over them three scant pints of genuine cider 
vinegar ; add half a cupful of granulated sugar, 
a tablespoonful of whole cloves, half an ounce 
of stick cinnamon and a few allspice tied in a 
bag. 

Cook gently for half an hour after boiling 
begins, keeping the cover partly off. Just be- 
fore removing from the fire add an ounce of 
mustard seed; stir lightly, so as not to break 
the pieces, with a wooden spoon, and put away 
in an earthen jar for a month in a cool place. 
At the end of this time put it again on the stove 
and boil up with a half-cupful of sugar (more or 
less according to taste), and seal hot in jars. 

Remove the bag of spices before sealing, and 
add a red pepper pod if not peppery enough. 
Before filling a jar, place in it a spoon long 



Q&ieting roc Cwo. 



enough to extend above the edge of it. 
will prevent breaking if the jar is a pe 



Put one quart of young fresh string-b 
into a brine which will float an egg. 

At the end of three days take them out 
put into the brine two dozen very small w 
onions. Wash the beans in ice-water and ] 
over them one pint of boiling cider vinega 
whicb is dissolved a lump of alum the aijie 
large pea. 

In three days drain ; steam the beans 
twelve minutes in a steamer ; then put t 
into a stone jar ; add the onions, one small 
pepper pod, one ounce of mixed whole s; 
tied in a bag, and pour over one pint of ( 
vinegar, boiling hot. Place a weight on 
pickles to keep them submerged. 

Throw away the brine and alum vinegar. 

Keep pickles always in a cool place. 

Small cucumbers called gherkins are pic 
in the same way escept that steaming is 
necessary. Omit the onions and add to 
last vinegar a tablespoon ful of sugar. 

Tbe bag of spices may be removed when 
pickles are flavored sufficiently. 



Catering toe (Two. 261 

TARRAGON VINEGAR FOR SALADS. 

Put a bunch of tarragon leaves in one quart 
of fine cider vinegar in an earthen vessel set 
\vithin another containing cold water. Set on 
the fire and let the vinegar boil up. 

When cool, bottle and cork. 

Only a small quantity of the tarragon should 
be used, as its flavor is very pronounced. 

BAKED RHUBARB. 

Put three cupfuls of skinned and cut-up rhu- 
barb (or pie-plant) into an earthen dish ; add 
one cupful of sugar ; dredge with a teaspoonful 
of flour and bake (covered) about half an hour. 

To be eaten with meats, or put into tart shells 
for dessert. Have covers for the tart shells. 



HELPFUL SUGGESTIONS. 

Salt toughens meat if added before it is done. 

Wash lettace carefully so as not to bruise, cut- 
ting each leaf from the stalk, and put it, drip- 
ping, into a closely covered pot. Set in a cool 
place. Lettuce thus prepared will keep for 
several days and be crisp and fresh. 

Celery should be treated in the same way. 

Each day look it over, rinse in fresh cold 
water and return to the pot. 

Do not soak in water to freshen, but when 
slightly wilted, wash and put in an earthen pot 
instead. 

Turnips, cabbage, and parsley are always im- 
proved by this treatment, but it is not necessary 
to pull the cabbage apart. 

Greens, (spinach and sprouts) should be 
soaked for several hours in cold water. 

Set asparagus bunches in a few inches of cold 
water to keep them fresh ; the water should not 
come more than half way up the stalks. When 
ready to cook, wash in several waters to get out 
the sand. 

262 



Catering tor ^wo. 263 

Confectioner's sugar may be found at almost 
all shops where groceries are found, but when 
not procurable, powdered sugar will answer al- 
most as well if it is rolled very fine on the 
moulding-board. 

Make Coffee Bavarian Cream frequently, at 
least twice in a month. It is something one 
rarely tires of. When used as a dinner dessert, 
oranges served after it will be found very ac- 
ceptable. 

Candied fruits for pies or puddings may be 
softened by steaming in a steamer ; set the fruit 
on a dish. 

When wishing to keep a steak or chops over 
night in hot weather, if there is danger of spoil- 
ing, broil or fry over a hot fire just enough to 
sear the outside, and to heat through but not to 
cook. Set on ice. 

If not cooked too much they will be as nice 
when broiled next morning as if they had not 
had the preliminary broil. 

When cheese becomes too hard for the table, 
grate it and put away in bottles ; it is useful for 
macaroni, soups, or sandwiches. 

Empty all canned things, as soon as they are 
opened, into an earthen bowl, and if not used 
for a day or two, scald them. In this way 
tomatoes may be kept a week in a cool place. 



264 Catering tot ^wo* 

Before patting crackers on the table set them 
in a hot oven a few minutes to crisp them. 

Before toasting bread, dry it a little in the 
oven : it should be heated through before toast- 
ing. Serve dipped and buttered toast (on a 
separate dish) with fried salt pork or ham, at 
breakfast. 

A little curry powder added to soups or stews 
gives a new dish. 

When a quick fire is needed and the range 
bums slowly, rake out as thoroughly as possi- 
ble ; add a bundle of kindling-wood, and open 
the draughts. One bundle of wood is usually 
enough to bake a pan of biscuits or muffins. If 
the fire is to be used for broiling, bum the wood 
to a red bed of coals. 

When broiling, if the fire is too hot, sprinkle 
over it a thin layer of fine ashes, or a handful 
of salt, or lay a folded sheet of newspaper on 
the coals ; put on the lid, and when the paper 
has burned out, its ashes will smother the fire 
enough. 

On the other hand, if the fire should not be 
hot enough, add a few scraps of fat meat. 

Grape preserves may be put between layer- 
cake just before serving. For a small family, 
cut one layer crosswise (not to split) and double 
one half over the other. Served with cream, 
this makes a delicious dessert. 



Caterftid tor ^wo. 265 

To brown flour for soups and gravies, put a 
few spoonfuls evenly on the bottom of a baking- 
pan and stir until it has become a fine amber- 
brown over a moderate fire. Bottle and keep 
for use. 

Some different varieties of cheese are — Stilton, 
Camembert, Roquefort, New Roquefort, Brie, 
Gorgonzola, Club-House, Edam, Sweet Clover, 
Meadow Brook, Philadelphia Cream, Neufcha- 
tel, Parmesan, Old English, I^imburger, Che- 
shire, Gruy^re, and Pineapple. 

An agreeable blend of tea is made of half a 
pound of the finest Oolong mixed with an 
ounce, or even less, of uncolored Japan tea. It 
Qapan) is of a pale greenish hue, and is not to 
be mistaken for the green tea of China. 

Until one has become acquainted with the 
different grades and qualities of grocer*^ wares, 
it is much safer to buy only from houses whose 
judgment in such things can be depended on. 

Dry egg-shells, break into bits, and put them 
away in a preserving jar to use in clearing coffiee ; 
two tablespoonfuls will clear one pint of coffee. 

When dried chipped beef is in danger of be- 
coming musty, take it from the box, spread on 
a platter and dry it in a hot oven ; it may then 
be put away and will keep for months. When 
immersed in cream sauce, beef treated in this 



266 Caterittd for ZTwo* 

way will swell to its natural size and be as nice 
as at first. 

Dried or smoked beef is considered by some 
physicians to be unsafe for food until cooked. 

The chopping-bowl must be scraped and 
scoured after each using, and well scalded, 
otherwise it will become unhygienic. Turn 
upside-down when not in use. 

Butter should be kept covered in a stone jar 
in a cool place ; some housekeepers put it into 
a brine, and this certainly keeps it sweet, and 
sometimes improves the quality. The brine 
should be strong enough to bear up a potato. 

Put a potato in the jar ; add water, and then 
stir in salt until the potato floats. 

Get only the best and sweetest butter, and ' 
never use an inferior grade for cooking. 
Rancid butter is unhealthful. 

As soon as possible after it comes from the 
butcher's hands, remove meat frotn the paper, 
put it on an earthen dish and set in a cool place. 

Spread out in a thin layer berries of every 
sort, and keep them in a cool, dry, and dark 
place. If they seem soft and not likely to keep, 
stew them in a sugar syrup. 

Agate-ware pots with close-fitting covers 
make excellent cake-boxes. 



Catering toe XLv^o. 267 

Lettuce may be pulled apart, rinsed, and put 
directly on the ice in very liot weather, and be 
all the better for this treatment. 

If meat is put on the ice, place between 
the ice and plate a thickness of flannel ; this 
will keep the ice from melting too fast. 

Cover the meat with a plate. 

The refrigerator should be washed out thor- 
oughly once a week with water in which a tea- 
spoonful of sal-soda has been dissolved. 

By keeping dishes containing food closely 
covered as much as possible, the refrigerator 
may be kept free from odors. 

Baked onions are almost as delicious as those 
roasted in the ashes, or before the logs in the 
open fireplace. 

Do not peel them, but set them in a hot oven 
to bake until tender. Take off the skins care- 
fully and serve with butter, salt, and pepper. 

" China eggs " are a pretty garnish to a dish 
of hashed meat or picked-up fish ; boil them 
just hard enough to make them shell easily, 
and serve whole and hot. 

Let cake cool a little before taking it from 
the pans. 

When testing cake to see if it is baked 
enough, use a slender broom-straw, thrusting 
it gently into the edge first, and then into the 



368 Catetitid tor ^wo. 

middle ; if put into the middle part suddenly, 
or too soon, the cake may fall. 

Before scraps of bread have a chance to be- 
come musty, dry them thoroughly in the oven ; 
put away in a covered jar, and when enough 
has accumulated, roll to powder on the mould- 
ing board, and put into jars or tin boxes for 
breading, etc. 

Scraps of Neufchatel or cream cheese may 
be made to serve again by mixing them with 
butter and cream, or milk, and spreading them 
on banquet crackers. Make into sandwiches 
and serve with salad. 

FLAVORINGS. 

Vanilla, almond, rose, coffee, caramel, ma- 
raschino, chopped almonds, grated cocoanut, 
pounded macaroons, fruit juices, rum, pis- 
tachio, orange, lemon, kirsch, sherry, brandy, 
madeira, curacoa, chocolate, orange -flower 
water, cordials, and liqueurs form most of the 
flavorings in general use. 

Mrs. Sherwood gives the following rules for 
the service of wine at a dinner party : 

White wine with the fish, sherry with the 
soup, and claret and champagne with the 
roast ; champagne is either ** dry " or sweet, 
and must not be decanted, but must be kept in 
ice-pails and opened when needed. 



A 



Catering foe Zv^o. 269 

Madeira and port wines accompany the game ; 
these are decanted, and should not be cold, but 
of the temperature of the room. 

A delicious claret-punch for luncheons or 
suppers is made from claret, vichy, lemons, 
sugar, and cracked ice, in proportions to suit 
the taste. 

Sherbets and sorbets are served in glasses 
after the game. 

Roman-punch is a lemon sherbet to which 
Jamaica rum has been added in the proportion 
of one cupful of rum to one quart of sherbet. 

For a lemon sherbet, boil together for twenty 
minutes, one pint of sugar, and one scant quart 
of water, and when cool, add a cupful of lemon- 
juice and the grated rind of two lemons ; mix 
together and freeze until firm. 

Strawberry and orange sherbets are made in 
the same way, adding a little lemon-juice. A 
mixture of fruit juices makes delicious sherbets 
or sorbets ; the latter are sherbets only half 
frozen. 

A portion of the dinner-roll dough may have 
stoned dates worked into it ; this is called date 
bread and is delicious for luncheon. Put the 
dates in close together, and let it raise the same 
as any bread dough. To be eaten cold. 

Potatoes should be thinly pared, as the best 
part lies next the skin. 
The sweetness of fruit also lies next the skin. 



270 Catetitid for Zwo. 

Never throw away milk or cream because it 
has soured : allow it to become loppered, or 
thick, and use it for corn-bread or griddle- 
cakes. When thick and ice cold, it may be 
whipped with the egg-beater and it makes then 
a refreshing drink in hot weather. Whip it 
about five minutes. Sour milk and molasses 
both contain lactic acid, an element found in 
gastric juice. I^actic acid is a digestive fer- 
ment. 

Soured (unsweetened) condensed milk may 
have two parts or a little more of water added 
to it, when it may be used in cooking the same 
as other sour milk. 

Eggs must be cold and very fresh to whip 
well. 

When the white of an egg after being frothed 
begins to separate, a few drops of lemon-juice 
added will remedy the trouble. 

Always use earthen-ware for whisking eggs 
in. 

Nasturtiums make a pretty as well as an appe- 
tizing garnish for meats and salads ; to be at 
their best they must be freshly picked. The 
stems as well as the blossoms are edible. 

Florists now sell them in pots so that they 
are easily obtainable for use on the table. 

In serving fresh peaches peel, stone, and 



Catectnd tot tLv^o. 271 

halve. Do not slice, but serve in halves, with 
a lump of ice in each, with sugar to taste. 

After peeling, cover with a wet cloth ; set on 
ice until well chilled, and add ice and sugar at 
serving-time. 

In canning fruits, turn the filled jars upside- 
down for a week, examining them each morn- 
ing. 

If any juice exudes, the jar is not air-tight, 
and the contents are likely to spoil : such must 
be cooked over again, or be used very soon. 

To blanch is to scald with boiling water so 
that skins of fruits, nuts, or sweetbreads, etc., 
may be removed with greater ease. 

A nice filling for sandwiches may be made 
by mincing or pounding meat very fine, mixing 
it to a paste with cream or melted butter, and 
seasoning to taste. 

THINGS TO KEEP ON HAND. 

Canned tomatoes, com, milk, sardines, sal- 
mon, potted ham, salt pork, flour, soda, baking- 
powder, salt, sugar, eggs, macaroni, butter, 
cheese, molasses, spices, vinegar, crackers, tea, 
coffee, cocoa, chocolate, smoked-beef, lemons, 
pepper, mustard, Indian-meal, hominy, corn- 
starch, oat-meal, potatoes, apples, cabbage or 
celery, onions, olives, capers, extract of beef, 
salt codfish, rice, tapioca, lima-beans, fruit cake, 



Miitea^BaaB^B*iM^ ..^MAa.M.jiaaa^M.^^Mi^M>.^ .'^ 



272 Catering ror Uwo* 

maple-sugar, and honey : also soap, starch, 
blueing, borax, and sapolio. 

Serve souffles in separate courses ; omelettes 
also. Small sandwiches, or bread and cheese, 
may be passed with them. 

A fish souffle will take the place of a fish 
course. 

The sweet Spanish peppers should be eaten 
with salt the same as radishes. 

A continual change in the bill of fare is de- 
sirable : one tires of the same dessert if seen too 
often, no matter how delicious it is, unless pos- 
sibly ice-cream may be an exception. 

If part of a dish be left over, wait a day or 
two before serving it again, and let weeks 
elapse before preparing it again. In this way 
the table will always present a pleasant sur- 
prise. , 

Three tablespoonfuls of rice may be substi- 
tuted for tapioca in the "tapioca meringue 
pudding." 

Soak the rice over night in cold water, and 
add milk, eggs, etc., in the morning. 

The little salt bags (ten-cent size) make roomy 
mittens for sweeping ; they will also be found 
of service about the stove, especially when re- 
moving dishes from hot ovens, as they protect 
both wrists and hands which a holder often fails 
to do. 



Catetttid tor ^wo« 273 

Straining-cloths, dish-cloths, etc., should be 
thoroughly cleaned by boiling in washing soda 
or pearline ; one teaspoonful to a quart of cold 
water. 

In hot weather this should be done daily. 

Rubber gloves protect the hands from veget- 
able and fruit stains ; they are especially 
needed in making grape jelly. 

Get them several sizes too large or the hand 
will not have room for free action. 

Grease will melt them. 

When a dish seems rather tasteless a dash of 
salt will often improve it. This also applies to 
pudding and other sweet dishes. 

Jellies give zest to meats and vegetables^ asdo 
pickles also. 

Olives, celery, and salted nuts are passed 
between the courses to prepare the palate for 
the dishes which are to follow. 

In cooking vegetables, those of one size 
should be selected, if possible, otherwise the 
larger ones should be cut into pieces to equal 
the smaller. 

Onions may be cut nearly through, leaving 
just enough uncut to hold the pieces together. 
In this way all will be cooked at the same 
time. 

The earthen pipkin is a valuable cooking 

x8 



274 Catetitid tot JLwo. 

utensil, as it may be easily kept sweet and 
clean, and things cook eyenly and keep hot 
in it. 

A '* cupfol " in all cases is half a pinL 

Any preserved citron which is left over at 
springtime may be drained from the symp, 
dried a little in the oven and packed away in 
glass to be used in cakes and puddings at any 
time : thus prepared it will keep for years. 

Pork tenderloins may be cut in three-quarter- 
inch slices (across instead of lengthwise) breaded 
with cracker crumbs and fried the same as 
directed for veal cutlets ; serve with lemon 
marmalade, or apple jelly and pickled tomatoes, 
or they may be broiled. 

Left-over stewed potatoes may be mashed 
fine with a fork, minced parsley added, formed 
into cakes, dipped into cracker crumbs and 
fried delicately in a little butter ; they are 
delicious prepared in this way. 

I/eft-over mashed potatoes are excellent 
breaded with cracker crumbs, fried in butter 
and used as a border around hashed meats ; lay 
a sprig of parsley or watercress on each cake. 

Keep a bottle of linseed-oil and lime-water 
(mixed in equal parts) in readiness to use for 
bums or scalds. Shake well, spread upon old 
table-linen, and bind on the injured place. 



Catetind tot Uvco* 275 

TO DRAW POULTRY. 

Make an incision in the breast end of the 
turkey, take out the crop, loosen the windpipe 
and the other long stringy tube, cutting them 
out as low down as possible, which will make 
the drawing of the lower entrails easier. 

Cut a slit across the lower end of the fowl 
between leg ^nd tail large enough to admit the 
hand. Slip in the hand straight, pressing the 
back of the hand close to the side of the body 
and between body and entrails ; push up as far 
as possible ; now curve the fingers, catch the en- 
trails at the upper end, and draw out the entire 
mass, slowly, so as not to break the gall, which 
is a little green sac lying against the liver, 
and which if crushed will give a bitter taste to 
everjrthing it touches. 

Take out the liver and heart ; cut off any 
green portion on the liver where the gall has 
rested ; wash quickly and put away. 

Cut the gizzard open ; tear out the lining; 
wash and scrape it thoroughly and put it away. 

Cut out all pieces of nice fat found among the 
entrails, and after washing lay it over the turkey 
to keep it moist when roasting. 

Cut out the oil-sac on the tail. 

Always buy fat poultry : there is no economy 
in thin, scrawny meat of any kind, especially 
poidtry. 



1 



276 Catering for ^wo* 

COOKING UTENSII^. 

Wire spoon, cooking spoons, knives and 
forks, can-opener, apple-corer, iron dish-cloth, 
flour-sifter, sugar-scoops, quart, pint, half-pint 
and gill measures, one iron spider, two small 
sheet-iron fiying-pans, one large sheet-iron 
frying-pan, half a dozen saucepans of assorted 
sizes, earthenware pudding-dishes, bread and 
cake tins, one large pot over which a steamer 
will fit, two dripping-pans for roasting, one 
to fit over the other, wire broiler, graters, 
coffee-grinder, close-fitting covers for aU pots, 
pans, etc., chopping-bowl and -knife, potato- 
masher, wooden pestle, flour-dredge, moulding- 
board, rolling-pin, teakettle, canisters for tea, 
coffee, and spices, Universal pot, pipkins — 
several sizes, bread pot, small knife for paring 
vegetables, whetstone, muffin rings, gem or 
muffin pans, pie plates, biscuit tins, meat-racks, 
tea-stands, coffee-strainer, sieves, meat-grinder, 
long clinch-nails for skewers, skimmer, cake- 
turner, wooden spoons, colanders, saw bread- 
knife, yellow earthen bowls, meat-block, two 
funnels ; one small for bottles, a large one for 
jugs. 

TO LAY THE DINNER-TABLE. 

The table should first be covered with a cloth 
of thick cotton flannel which comes for this 



Cateclna for ^wo* 277 

purpose, securely fastened on by pinning the 
corners together underneath. 

Over this spread the damask cloth. 

A circular mirror or a piece of embroidered 
linen may fill the centre of the table for the 
flowers to stand on. At the right of each place 
put a dessert-spoon, teaspoon, a knife for the 
salad course, a larger knife for the meat course, 
soup-spoon and oyster-fork, if oysters are served. 

At the left, place two forks : if a fish course 
forms part of the meal add also a small fish- 
knife and -fork. 

As each knife and fork is used it is removed 
with the plate, and the confusion and extra 
work of bringing in fresh knives and forks is 
avoided. 

As the meal progresses, the table is gradually 
cleared, until, when the time for dessert arrives, 
nothing is left but the glasses, flowers, and the 
spoons for dessert. The space between the 
knives and forks should be wide enough for 
the dinner-plate, before which stands the salt- 
cellar, pepper-box, butter-plate, and glasses for 
water, Apollinaris, and wine. 

Use tumblers for the ice-water, small tall 
glasses for Apollinaris, and appropriate glasses 
for the wine. 

The napkin may hold the dinner-roll, or piece 
of bread, or the roll may be laid upon the but- 
ter-plate, which may al^o contain a pat of but- 



378 dateclttd tot XLvQO. 

ter. All these arrangemeDts make the serving 
of a dinner easier. 

The bread, butter, and water should be put 
npon the table just before the meal is an- 
nounced. The first course should be upon the 
table on sitting down, and the meat and vege- 
tables in hot covered dishes be within easy reach 
on a side table. The salad may also be on the side 
table to replace the meat course as soon as it is 
removed. 

Before serving the dessert, brush off all 
crumbs, then bring on coffee and fruit and the 
finger-bowls on the plates intended for fruit or 
bon-bons. 

Olives, celery, salted nuts, pickles, or jellies 
should be on the table from the beginning of 
the meal : the first three €u:e eaten between the 
courses ; the pickles and jellies with the meat. 

When there is no maid to wait at table, the 
side table is indispensable to the housewife who 
would save herself unnecessary steps, and have 
the dinner pass off without confusion. 

The most convenient side tables are those in 
the form of an open closet, having a set of 
shelves, with large castors which render them 
easy to push about. 

A table of this sort should contain all the ex- 
tra knives, forks, and spoons, and other things 
needed for the meal, and, when possible, the 
food for the succeeding courses. 



datecittd tor (Two* 279 

The lamp or gas-stove for hot water may also 
find a place here, and the dishes as they are re- 
moved from the dinner-table. 

Griddle-cakes may be served from the side 
table, baked on the gas or oil stove ; if the table 
is too high to permit of turning the cakes easily, 
put the stove on a waiter and set this on a chair. 

Use a soapstone griddle, or wash thoroughly 
an old iron griddle, rub it with salt, and do not 
grease; the butter in the batter will be suflB- 
cient to keep cakes from sticking. 

Let the table-linen be as fine and good as the 
purse will allow, and whenever possible have a 
few flowers on the table as a centrepiece. 

A growing plant is in good taste, and the pot 
may be covered with green cr^pe paper. 

If the napery is not very fine, have it ironed 
very wet, with a heavy, hot iron until perfectly 
dry. 

Water starch (that is extremely thin starch) 
may be used for the cloth but not for the nap- 
kins : thus treated, table linen will have a rich 
gloss and look well even if the quality is not 
the best and finest. 

Colored cloths are out of place on the dinner 
table. 

Colored napkins are used when the fruit comes 
on. 

Doilies of drawn work at each place save the 
cloth, and serve to make the table attractive. 



28o 



Catering tor Zwo. 



With linen perfectly laandered and spotless, 
glass sparkling, and the silver shining, a table 
may be elegant no matter how inexpensive the 
furnishings. 

However informal the breakfast and luncheon, 
it is always well to make the dinner a meal of 
some ceremony. 

Even if the viands are of the simplest, and 
the table appointments the plainest, a dinner 
served with regularity yields enjoyment and 
comfort to those partaking of it, and will be 
found to be less trouble than if served hap- 
hazard. 

The style of putting all the dishes on the table 
at once is steadily growing out of favor in most 
families ; it is found to be more conducive to the 
healthful enjoyment of food to serve but a few 
things at a time, making separate courses of the 
dishes whenever practicable. This plan tempts 
the appetite when too bountiful a supply of food 
would discourage it. 

If only a very simple meal is desired (of 
two courses) add an extra vegetable, or increase 
the quantity of those mentioned, and select a 
somewhat rich dessert. 



INDEX. 



SOUPS. 

Asparagus, cream of io8 

Beans, pur^e of 136 

Beef-tea 212 

Bouillon (or consomm^) .... 41 

Celery soup 76 

Chicken broth 7 

Clam soup 143 

Com soup 163 

Julienne consomm^ 98 

Lamb broth, spiced 130 

with lemon 48 

Macaroni soup 56 

Mutton broth 14 

Ox-tail soup 87 

Oyster stew 120 

Peas, consommd with green 156 

pur^e of green 62 

Potato puree 35 

Rice, consomm^ with i 

Soup with egg '27 

Soup-stock (clear) 28 

Split-pea soup 70 

Tomato, bisque 20 

cream puree 83 

Vegetable soup 114 

281 



282 f ndes* 

FISH. 

Clam, chowder 140 

fritters 221 

Codfish, balls 204. 

picked-np 202 

Fresh fish, boiled with HoUandaise sauce . 93 

broiled 209 

fried 203 

spiced 221 

staffed and baked 98 

Oyster, cocktails 184 

croustade 189 

patties 194 

pie 2 

Oysters, escalloped 38 

fried 106 

on the half-shell 190 

Salmon with HoUandaise sauce . . 195 

Smelts, fried 190 

Souffl6 195 

MEATS. 

Beef, k la mode 94 

corned 23 

frizzled 196 

roast, porter-house 21 

roast, sirloin 8 

soup-meat 42 

steak, Hamburg 195 

steak, porter-house 169 

steak pudding 115 

steak, round 6 

steak with onions 144 

stew (cold roast) 23 

stew with sweet potatoes ... 13 

tongue 192 

various ways of using the coarse ends . 171 



fnDei. 



283 



Birds .... 
Chicken, blanquetteof 

broiled 

browned in butter . 

croquettes (of birds) 

fricassee . 

fried 

patties 

roast 

smothered 

SOUJffl^ 

Duck, roast 

Hash .... 

baked 

Lamb, browned in spiced sauce 
chops, breaded (French) 
broiled .... 
cutlets and stew from roast 
roast 

stuffed . 
stew 
Liver and bacon 
Meat pie, baked . 
Mutton, boiled, caper sauce 
F&rk. 
bacon and eggs 
ham, baked (smoked) 

fried, cream gravy (smoked) 
omelette 
on toast 
roast, savory stuffing (fresh) 
pork and beans 
chops, fried, cream gravy 
roast rib and loin 
tenderloin, fried and boiled 
sausage, fried and baked 
meat .... 
souse (pickled pigs' feet) 



222 

190 
168 

57 
222 

44 

57 
194 

43 
201 
194 

152 

23 
213 
129 

185 
77 
50 

29 

49 

30 

208 

67, 72 
15 



208 

157 
36 
207 
210 
148 
121 
84 

125 
84, 274 
204 
225 
224 



284 f n^eI• 

Pot-roast, matton 39 

stew with lamb kidneys . .165 

top-sirloin 71 

under-round or cross-rib 164 

Potted meats 220 

Remnants, of cold oven roasts or broils, 126, 197 

poultry, veal, or lamb .... 197 

Turkey, roast 175 

Veal, cutlets 109 

loaf 210 

pot-pie (raised crust) .... 63 

roast (stuffed) 88 

VEGETABLES. 

Asparagus on toast 91 

Beans, butter loi 

lima 59 

string loi 

Beets 137 

Cabbage, fried 158 

hot slaw 100 

Cape May omelette 52 

Cauliflower, fritters 64 

with Hollandaise sauce . .166 

Com, on the cob 66 

fritters 234 

stewed . ... -3^ 

Cucumbers loi 

with cream 221 

Greens (beet-tops, dandelions, and spinach) iii 

Hominy, boiled 126 

fried 36 

Macaroni with cheese .... 9 

Onions, baked in milk .... 138 

boiled 90 

browned in butter 131 

roasted in the oven .... 267 



fndci. 



285 



Parsnip, buttered 


. 45 


patties 


37 


with cream sauce . 


16 


Peas, green (stewed) . 


52 


Potatoes, baked . . . . 


• 79 


balls (baked) . . . . 


. 153 


boiled (new) . 


. 212 


with cream sauce 


. 51 


breaded .... 


. 213 


broiled 


. . . 165 


browned in milk 


. no 


in the oven . . . . 


. 117 


cakes 


99, 274 


croquettes 


. 137 


escalloped 


. 31 


fried . . 


. . . 165 


French .... 


• 95 


hashed, or stewed, with cream 


I gravy . 158 


with parsley 


59 


lyounaise . . . . 


9 


mashed .... 


. 73 


Saratoga chips 


. 130 


sweet, baked or broiled . 


. 150 


browned in the oven . 


• 85, 150 


Rice, boiled 


. 16 


croquettes 


. . . 89 


fried .... 


. 44 


Spaghetti with tomato sauce 


. 227 


Spinach with egg sauce 


. Ill 


Squash, baked . 


. 145 


mashed .... 


. 90 


Succotash .... 


. 95 


Tomatoes, baked 


. . . 65 


escalloped 


45 


fritters .... 


. 225 


on toast .... 


• 74 


stewed .... 


. 117 


in butter . . . . 


. 37 



286 f ndes* 

Xnmips and potatoes mashed together 24, 145 

breaded 149 

browned in butter 86 

with cream sauce 31 

SALADS. 

Salad, apple 95 

asparagus 139 

cabbage 53 

celery 24 

chicken 102 

chicory, with French dressing 32 

cold meat 141 

cold slaw 38 

egg, with greens 112 

lettuce, with French dressing . . 60 

onion 117 

oyster 45 

potato, with greens .... 131 

for tea or luncheon .... 200 

sardine 214 

string-bean 160 

sweetbread 200 

tomato 9, 112 

and celery 191 

DESSERTS. 

Apples, baked, with cream . . .161 

with meringue 155 

Cake, 

cake, chocolate 113 

cream 113 

fruit 236 

gold and silver 236 

lemon 10, 11 

loaf 53 



f nDcj* 287 

Cake — C Contin ued) 

molasses 237 

pound 237 

sponge 226 

"whipped-cream . .10 

chocolate custard for layer cake . . 223 
frosting for cakes and puddings . 11, 232 

gingersnaps 238 

hot ginger bread and wafers . 239 

soft gingerbread 240 

vanilla wafers 119 

Charlotte russe 173 

Custard, boiled 154 

Dumplings, steamed, caramel sauce . . 17 

Ploatmg island 118 

French toast 235 

Fruit dumplings, baked .... 81 

fritters 234 

Gelatine jelly, caramel .... 5 

caramel sea-foam mouss^ . . 230 

chocolate, with custard .... 154 

cofifee, Bavarian cream .... 229 

orange, with whipped cream . 178 

pineapple, with whipped cream 60 
princess, with sea-foam cream . .151 

strawberry 68 

whip 229 

wine 91 

Ice-cream 185 

Muskmelon with ice-cream and fruit 234 

Pie, apple 104 

cherry 105 

huckleberry 167 

lemon meringue 39 

mince 181 

peach 104 

rhubarb 104 

squash 166 



288 fnDei* 

Pineapple, jardiniere 182 

with floating island .... 152 

Puddingy banana meringue . 168 

blackberry 141 

cherry . . . . .40 

chocolate 139 

jelly, with sea-foam cream . .127 

corn-starch, with candied fruit . 25 

lemon meringue (baked) . 153 

cottage 112 

farina 6 

Indian 123 

lemon meringue 66 

orange tapioca, with whipped cream 32 

plum 178 

prune 96 

(queen's 173 

nee, baked 160 

boiled, whipped-egg sauce . 232 

meringue 272 

roly-poly, with whipped-egg sauce 3 

steamed, with oranges .... 146 

suet 107 

sultana 161 

tapioca, baked 75 

cream 134 

meringue 86 

Strawberry shortcake .... 46 

SAUCES. 

MEAT AND VKGHTABI3 SAVCnS. 

Cream gravy, for bacon, etc. . . 209 

for fresh pork 84 

Onion butter 199 

Sauce, bread 223 

caper 15 

curry 199 



InDcj. 289 

Sauce — C Continued) 
drawn butter (or white) . . . 16, 90 

Bspagnole (or brown), for stews, etc. . 198 

HoUandaise 94 

mint 51 

parsley 51 

tartare 190 

wine 51 

PUDDING SAUCES. 

Caramel (burnt sugar) .... 18 

Maple-sugar syrup 202 

Sauce, caramel 18 

caramel cream 189 

custard 47 

egg, whipped 4 

hard 82, 180 

liquid ...... 107, 180 

strawberry-shortcake .... 233 

tutti-frutti 233 

wine 180 

Sea-foam cream 232 

Substitute for whipped cream ... 34 

Sugar syrup 234 

Whipped cream 33 

SAI^AD DRESSINGS. 

French dressing . . . 24, 32 

Mayonnaise . . . .46, 103, 141 

Tarragon vinegar 261 

TABLE-SAUCES. 

Apples, fried 158 

Apple-sauce, baked 127 

hot 85 



290 



fn^ei^. 



Cranberry-sauce, strained . 

whole .... 
Peaches, stewed and baked 
Prunes, stewed . 
Rhubarb, baked 

stewed .... 
Strawberries, raspberries, and blackber 
ries, stewed .... 



177 

178 

12 

12 

261 

88 

II 



ficki.es and reushbs. 



Chili sauce 
Marmplade, lemon 

tomato 
Pickled, cabbage 

cucumbers 

green tomatoes 

string-beans . 
Spiced tomato sauce, cold 

hot . 



jEIrWES. 



Jelly, crab-apple 
currant . 



grape 
quince 



PRESERVES. 



Canned, cherries 

peaches 

plums 

strawberries, raspberries, and blackber- 
ries 

Preserved, citron 

grapes 

orange-peel (candied) . . . . 



150 




79 




138 


 


4 


 


260 




259 




260 




172 




122 


 


254 


 


256 




255 « 




250 


 




 


251 


t 

• 


247 


1 

 


251 






1 


II 


1 


253 


1 


252 


 


247 


\ 



Indei* 291 

Preserved, peaches 248 

spiced 249 

pineapple 250 

candied 105 

quinces 250 

Syrup from berries 257 

BREAD 

Biscuits (baking-powder) . '159 

or dinner rolls (yeast) .... 132 

Bread (yeast) 133 

date (yeast) 269 

gluten (yeast) 218 

milk (yeast) 215 

Cornbread 123, 226 

Muffins (baking-powder) .... 206 

Graham 213 

Indian meal 224 

yeast (prune pudding batter) ... 97 

MISCBLI.ANEOUS. 

Bread-crumbs for breading and puddings . 212 

Cheese, on toast 203 

some varieties 265 

Chocolate 162 

Coflfee 147, 245 

Cooking utensils 276 

Crust, for oyster-patties . -193 

for pot-pies and stew-pies .159 

Eggs, au gratin 192 

beauregarde 188 

poached 206 

scrambled 207 

Flavorings 268 

Fondant, or' foundation, for cream candies 241 
Frosting for cakes and puddings 11, 232 



292 



fnt)et. 



Grape-fruit . 
Griddle-cakes, bread 

buckwheat 

wheat and Indian 
Helpful suggestions 
Home-made yeast 
Indian-meal mush 
Lemonade . 
Lemon extract . 
Milk toast . 
Mince-meat 
Oatmeal 
Oranges 
Pie-crust (flaky) 
Pot-cheese with watercresses 
Punch 

Salted almonds 
Sandwiches 

cheese 

sardine . 
Sherbets and sorbets . 
Stuflfing, bread and butter 

onion 
Sugar-plums, chocolate cream-bar, 

nut candies 
Tea .... 
Things to keep on hand 
To draw poultry 
To lay the dinner-table 
Unfermented grape-juice 
Vanilla extract . 



. 188 

. 211 

. 214 

. 211 

. 262 

. 219 

. 205 

. 258 

. 258 

. 202 
181, 246 

. 205 

• 19 
. 103 

. 81 

. 269 

. 80 

. 271 

32, 268 
. 214 
. 269 

49, 126 
152 



and 



242 

26 

271 

275 
276 

257 
258 



BOOKS FOR THE HOUSEHOLD 

Household Economics. A Course of Lectures in the 

School of Economics of the University of Wisconsin. 

By Helen Campbell, author of " Prisoners of Poverty," 

** American Girls* Home Book," etc. Octavo, gilt 

top . . . . . . . . . $1.50 

**A truly remarkable work . . . the author evinces a thorough 
knowledge of her subject, and she treats it in a luminous and logical 
manner, and is thoroughly practical . . . the book should be read in 
every intelligent household where the author's living voice cannot be 
heard." — N. V. Observer. 

*' Every housewife who is ambitious to. excel in housekeeping should 
read, learn, mark, and inwardly digest the teachings of these highly in- 
structive lectures on household economics." — Home Journal, 

The Majestic Family Cook-Book. Hy Adolphk Gal- 
LIER, Chefoi the Hotel Majestic, New York. Containing 
1300 selected receipts simplified for the use of house- 
keepers ; also a few choice bills of fare. 8vo . $2.50 

M. Gallier has taken advantage of his long professional career in the 
culinary art, and now presents in convenient form his entire lore in a 
neatly printed volume . . . the author may be considered the most 
accomplished of artists . . . the book is invaluable for every house- 
hold."— A^. Y. Times. 

Three Hundred and Sixty-Six Dinners. Suggested by 
M. E. N. 16°, gilt top $1.25 

*"366 Dinners' is a dainty little volume in white and blue, which will 
doubtless be as useful to the hostess as its appearance would be attractive 
to the guests ; for it is not a cook-book in brown oil-cloth covers, to be 
relegated to the floury hands of the cook, but a calendar of mentis to be 
kept off the drawing-room table only because early guests might look in it 
under the day of the month and discover what was to be given them." 



G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS,, New York & London 



PRACTICAL COOK BOOKS 

Good-Living A Practical Cookery Book for To^m 
and Country. By Sara Van Buren Brugi&re. Svo, 
cloth $2 CO 

This book contains over 2,300 recipes drawn from highest authorities 
and many countries ; from France, Belgium, England, Holland, Denmark, 
Spain, Italy, Austria, Russia, as well as nearer home, to suit the varied 
tastes of our cosmopolitan community. All the plainer dishes which 
every family requires, and which are generally slighted because they are 
plain and simple, have received careful study ; roasting, bread- and 
butter-making, etc., having had great attention. Besides these there is 
an endless variety of entries or side-dishes to suit the palate of the 
gourmet, all simple and easy to make, giving a large scope to the house- 
keeper to furnish a varied table with a comparatively limited variety of 
material. Another aim, almost if not quite equal, is economy, every 
receipt given being within the reach of any family of moderate, even I 

modest, means, in either city or country. 

The Franco-American Cookery Book ; or, How to 
Live Well and Wisely Every Day in the Year. 

Containing over 2,000 Recipes. By Felix J. D6li£e, 

Caterer of the New York Club ; Ex-Chef of the Union 

and Manhattan Clubs. Large octavo, half leather, 

illustrated $3 50 

A new Treatise, containing 365 different Bills of Tare, giving concise 
instructions how to properly prepare and serve all kinds of domestic and 
foreign culinary provisions in every way for each succeeding season, and 
mostly convenient for private families, clubs, restaurants, hotels, etc., etc. 

'Mn form, print, and value to economical taste it is, without doubt, the 
best book of cookery ever issued from the American press."— C/ip^#, 
Boston. 

** The most extensive work on cookery printed in this country.'*— /\w/, 
Pittsburg. 

Quick Cooking. A Book of Culinary Heresies for the 
Busy Wives and Mothers of the Land. By One of 
THE Heretics. i6mo, cloth . . . .75 cts, 

** A delightful addition to the serious literature of cooking." — Boston 
Post. 

** A treasure for busy wives, mothers, and housekeeper!. "^Cta/0flf- 
guan. 



G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS, New York & London 



« 

It 

■i 
•i- 

i 

K 

i' 

7 



"Rz. 



' 



1 



^#»*** 




HmUkk Htif 



itii 



r. 



811032919 99007S 



i 



