Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



GOOD COOKING 






LADIES* HOME JOURNAL 
HOUSEHOLD LIBRARY 

Vol. I. — Model Houses for 
Little Money. By W. 
L. Price. 

Vol. II. — Inside of a Hun- 
dred Homes. By W. 
M. Johnson. 

Vol. III. — Good Cooking. 
By Mrs. S. T, Rorer. 

Clotb, fifty cents each. 









••• 
• 
• 


• 
• 
• 


• 


• • • 












• 


• 


• 


••• 






• J 

• o o 


• • • 


: : • 


• •• 


•• 


• • • • • • 

• • ••• ••* 

• • • • • • 


• 
•• 

• • 

• • • 

• • 


•• • • 

• ; • • 

• • • 

• • • 








• •• 

• • 

• • 

• •• 


•J 

< 


• ••• ••• • • 

> • • • • 

► • • • 
* ••• • • 



















.» i 



'^S •, . T'' ); .. H 



•'■,' ! •• 



• 1 » -'■ i * rf * 1 



Vrf 



! M . . i 



^i. 



vl 



• f^.^f: 



^^' ..V-^;':- 






-.^^, ^' 



f-:-- ». ".; 



 .'if 



^. •*" '■'1^.' ' 



- <i ^'^ 



i :i- 



s ■«:' % 



" .*-• -f 



1 -^ 



S*. 



: .— I* 



-•: -i 



*»y» *«f* '■'*-;* 



«..«•. .-.r 



-* I ^»«v »*-.. '»i* •*« 



^ .-t 



LADIES' HOME JOURNAL 
HOUSEHOLD LIBRARY 



GOOD COOKING 



BY 

MRS. S. T.'RORER 



OF THE PHILADELPHIA COOKING SCHOOL, 

CULINARY EDITOR OF THE LADIES* 

HOME JOURNAL, ETC. 









•• ••• ••• *•- --0 -[^ - - 



^ ** ■* „ ■> 



W 4 









PHILADELPHIAY^^ ' ^^SEVf YORK 

CURTIS PUBlJ$ftIN(A' DOUBLED AY & 



COMPANY 



McCLURE CO. 



\' 



.' 'I  \ 



c S3 



V 



HARVARD 

UNIVERSav 

LIBRARY 

MAR 5 1641 



Copyright^ i8g6^ f8^7, rSgSf 
By The Curtis Publishing Company. 



••• • • ••• 

• • • • 

•• ••• • 

••• • • • 



• • ! 
•• • 

• • 



• • • « 

• • • 



• --• 



• •• m ^ • 



• •! ••• ••• 



• •• • 

• • • 
• •• • 



• • 



• I • • 



.• • 



• ••< 



• ••••••• 

• • • • 

•• •• 

• • • 

• • ••• 



••• 









John Wilson and Son, Cambridge, U.S.A. 



L 



N 



k. ' ' "'. 



^^The scales of household polity are the 
scales of love^ and she who balances them 
evenly is indeed wise?^ 



AN EXPLANATORY WORD 



However numerous the household books 
may appear, one telling of a better and 
easier way of living is always acceptable. 
The contents of this book are the natural 
results of twenty years' practical experi- 
ence, and are, on the whole, the most com- 
prehensive of all that I have written. But 
the book should be read intact rather than 
as a series of articles. 

The recipes are in quantities for families 
of five or six ; where smaller quantities are 
desired, divide each article in the same 
proportion. For instance, the general rule 
for caramel custards is three eggs, one and 
a half cups of milk, three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, and a teaspoonful of vanilla, with 

• • 

Vll 



An Explanatory Word 

six tablespoonfuls of extra sugar for the 
caramel. For a family of two one would, 
of course, require one-third of the quantity. 
Divide then into thirds, and your recipe 
will read, — one egg, a half cup of milk, 
one tablespoonful of sugar, a third of a 
teaspoonf ul of vanilla, and two tablespoon- 
fuls of extra sugar for the caramel. If in 
a menu an article is mentioned not procur- 
able in your locality, substitute in its place 
another, of the same general character. 
For instance, — if spinach is named, cauli- 
flower or cabbage or even turnips could 
easily take its place in a dinner menu; 
mutton in place of beef; chicken in place 
of turkey; potatoes in place of rice as a 
starchy vegetable, etc. 

Sarah Tyson Rorer. 



vui 



CONTENTS 

Mbs. Roreb's Cooking Lessons:— paqe 

The Making of Soups • . 3 

Fish of all Kiuds 17 

The Cooking of Meat 31 

The Cooking of Poultry 45 

The Cooking of Vegetables 59 

Making Bread and Rolls 73 

Tasteful Desserts and Cakes 87 

Good Coffee, Tea, Cocoa, and Chocolate . 101 

Eggs in Every Form 114 

The Making of Salads 128 

Mrs. Borer's Domestic Lessons : — 

Indigestion : How to Avoid It, and What 

to Eat when Yon Have It 145 

The Right Food for Different Men . . . 161 

The Best Foods for Stout and Thin Women 1 74 

The Best Food for Bloodless Girls ... 188 

The Proper Cooking for the Nursery . . 203 

The Best Food for a Growing Child . . 217 

Cooking for the Sick and Convalescent . 231 



MRS. RORER'S COOKING 

LESSONS 



MRS. BORER'S COOKING 

LESSONS 

THE MAKING OF SOUPS 

*'Soup makes the soldier," said Napo- 
leon I. "The great heroes of antiquity," 
said Sir John Sinclair, "lived on broth," 
but Napoleon III. wisely suggested that 
" a soldier could not be made on soup 
made out of nothing." In a family where 
«oup begins the dinner, and the dishes 
following are of a concentrated nature, the 
soup should be light, clear, and warm, not 
necessarily nutritious. But where soup is 
to form the entire dinner it must be of a 
nourishing character. As water cannot 
■dissolve the fibre of beef, and the fibre of 
beef holds the larger part of the nourish- 
ment, a beef soup, clear and beautiful 
though it may be, is not nutritious. The 



4 The Making of Soups 

albumen is soluble in water, of course, but 
as clear soup is boiled, this coagulates the 
albumen and spoils the brilliancy; so we 
clarify and strain this out, thus robbing 
the liquid of every grain of nutriment. 
From a hygienic standpoint, then, this 
is necessarily served at the beginning of 
the meal, the object being to invite into 
the stomach the gastric secretions before 
the entrance of the solid food. While the 
fashion of a dinner soup is almost entirely, 
in this country, confined to the "few," the 
masses, if they would only stop to consider 
the hygiene of the fashion, would follow 
quickly. Stock is the foundation of all 
meat soups, thick or thin, and is the very 
life of all sauces. 

Making the Stock 

All bones left from steaks, roasts, or 
poultry, or the liquor in which they have 
been boiled, may be placed in the refrigera- 
tor from day to day until the allotted time 
for cooking. Then the bones should be 
cracked, placed in the soup-kettle, covered 
with water, and simmered gently (180^ 



The Making of Soaps^ 5 

Fahrenheit) for four hours. At the first 
boil, skim, and at the end of the third hour 
add the flavorings, which should consist of 
one tablespoon ful of salt, one onion with 
six whole cloves stuck in it, half a cup of 
the chopped green tops of celery, one carrot 
sliced, one turnip sliced, two bay leaves, and 
a teaspoonful of whole pepper corns, to each 
four quarts of water. The delicate flavor 
of each of these ingredients depends upon 
a volatile oil, which is easily dissipated if 
the stock is boiled hard or long, so ta 
obtain a pleasant flavor they are added at 
the close of the cooking. At the end of 
the four hours strain the stock and put it at 
once in a cold place. When cold remove 
the fat from the surface. 

To clarify the stock allow the white and 
shell of one egg to each quart of stock. 
Crush the shell and then beat it and the 
white together for a moment and whisk it 
with the cold stock. Place the saucepan 
over the fire, bring quickly to a boil, and 
boil five minutes; add a tablespoonful of 
lemon juice, and strain through two thick- 
nesses of cheesecloth wrung out of cold 



6 The Making of Soups 

water. The albumen in the white of eggs 
entangles the particles floating in the liquid, 
and the straining, of course, makes it per- 
fectly clear. The first thing necessary to the 
preservation of the stock is the removal of 
the fat. Second, it must be cooled quickly. 
In summer, stock will keep much longer if 
the flavorings are omitted. 

The Soup-Kettle 

Perhaps first in importance in the making 
of soup are the utensils used in its prepara- 
tion. As the juices of meat are acid, an 
iron or tin vessel will not give the best 
results unless perfect cleanliness is ob- 
served. A kettle with a thick, rounded 
bottom will last twice as long as one with 
a. flat bottom, where the sides are soldered 
on. The round bottom is also more con- 
ducive to slow cooking, which is necessary 
to good soup-making. Take care that the 
lid is close-fitting, to prevent waste by evap- 
oration. The pot-au-feu is the standard 
dish of all classes in Ft*ance. It is a soup 
and at the same time a dinner. Select a 
nice piece of beef from the fleshy part of 



The Making of Soups 7 

the shoulder, weighing about six pounds, 
wipe it with a damp towel, and tie in shape. 
Purchase a good-sized marrow bone and 
have it sawed in two-inch lengths. Place 
these first in the kettle, then the meat, and 
cover with four quarts of cold water. Bring 
slowly to boiling point. Skim carefully and 
simmer for four hours. At the end of three 
hours add a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoon- 
ful of whole pepper corns, three carrots, 
medium size, sliced, a good-sized turnip 
sliced, one bunch of celery, one onion 
(two ounces), and two bay leaves. It is 
wise to put the vegetables in a few at a 
time, so that the simmering may not be 
disturbed. When the pot-au-feu has fin- 
ished cooking lift the meat carefully, place 
it on a heated platter, and arrange the 
vegetables around it as a garnish. 

The Making of Consomm^ 

This is one of the most, if not the most, 
elegant of the clear soups. Purchase one 
shin of beef and one knuckle of veal ; wipe 
both with a damp cloth. Cut the meat from 
the bones. Put the kettle over a hot fire 



8 'The Making of Soups 

and sprinkle over the bottom one teaspoon- 
f ul of sugar; brown, and allow it to smoke 
for a moment, then add quickly a quarter 
of a cup of chopped onion and the same 
quantity of water. Cook five minutes, then 
place the bones first in the kettle, then the 
meat, cover with five quarts of cold water 
and bring to a boil. Skim carefully and 
place the kettle over a moderate fire to sim- 
mer for four hours. At the end of the third 
hour add the flavoring as in the directions 
given for stock, and finish in the same way. 

By adding to or taking from the receipts 
given, a skilled cook may make great varie» 
ties of soups. There is, however, a short 
list of exceptional soups, each with a distinc- 
tive, individual character, which should be 
alluded to in this article. There are the 
bisque soups, and the soups maigre. which 
frequently contain much more nourishment 
then those made from meat, in consequence 
of which they are especially adapted for the 
noonday luncheon or for fast days. There 
are also the fish broths, which may form the 
foundation for all bisques, and fish sauces. 

These fish soups are made very much as 



The Making of Soups 9 

consomme : by browning a little sugar, then 
putting in the fish and vegetables. By 
careful cooking the most of the nourish- 
ment is drawn from the fish into the broth. 
Another group of soups is the soup made 
from vegetables alone, after the fashion of 
the Turks. Put into the soup-kettle about 
two tablespoonfuls of olive oil. After pre- 
paring and cutting into fine pieces a great 
variety of vegetables, they are carefully fried 
brown in the olive oil, then covered with 
cold water and cooked continually for sev- 
eral hours. The broth is then strained and 
seasoned. These soups are really delicious, 
and form admirable dinner soups, as they 
are perfectly clear. Rice or barley may be 
added, which would give them a greater 
food value. After these come the various 
cream soups, which may be made entirely 
without meats, and are still more nutritious 
than the first receipts given. 

Furies of All Sorts 

By a puree is meant a thick soup. In 
olden times a puree of potato really meant 
mashed potatoes beaten until light, then milk 



lo The Making of Soups 

or cream added. In these days we refer to 
pur^e as a thick soup: pur^e of spinach^ 
puree of lettuce, pur^e of chicken, all 
luncheon or "little dinner" soups. The 
French, following out their ideas of econ- 
omy, use the vegetables from the stock, 
adding sufficient stock to them to make a 
puree; thus they save the vegetables and 
at the same time have the flavoring in the 
stock. A puree of game or a puree of any 
other meat may be made from left-over 
pieces. The thighs and the little bits of 
meat on the backs of partridges may be 
put aside and used for a pur^e. To make 
a soup of this kind perfect and smooth a 
few extra utensils are necessary. A pur^e 
sieve with an ordinary wooden pestle will 
answer the purpose. Without this sieve 
the soups are never quite perfect. A green 
pea soup in the spring will settle and be- 
come thick at the bottom if not put through 
a sieve. The sieve being very fine seems 
to separate the particles so thoroughly that 
they cannot again settle. They become 
blended with the milk, which, being slightly 
thickened, holds them in suspension. 



The Making of Soups 1 1 

A pur^e of split peas may be made by 
covering one pint of split peas with cold 
water and soaking them over night. Next 
morning wash carefully through several 
clear waters. Then put the peas into a 
saucepan, cover with a quart of water, and 
simmer gently for two hours. Press them 
first through a colander, then add to them 
one quart of good stock, mix, and then press 
through a pur^e sieve. As the peas begin 
to become dry in the sieve add from time 
to time a little liquor to moisten. This 
facilitates the pressing. Return this puree 
to the kettle and add sufficient stock to 
make it a palatable thickness, not more 
than a pint. Rub together a tablespoonful 
of flour and two of butter; stir into the 
pur^e, and stir until perfectly smooth. 
Now add a teaspoonful and a half of salt, 
half a teaspoonful of pepper, and a table- 
spoonful of grated onion. Boil gently for 
five minutes, stirring all the while. Put a 
few croutons in the soup-dish, pour the 
soup over them and serve. This same rule 
may be used for a pur^e of white or black 
beans, or for lentils. 



12 The Making of Soups 

Pur^e of Chestnuts 

Shell and blanch one quart of chestnuts. 
Put them in a soup-kettle and cover with 
one quart of stock; add a slice of onion, 
two bay leaves, a quarter of a teaspoonful 
of celery seed or half a cup of chopped 
celery tops. Cook slowly for twenty min- 
utes until the chestnuts are tender. Press 
through a colander first, then through a 
sieve. Return the puree to the kettle, add 
a pint of milk. Rub together two table- 
spoonfuls of butter and one of flour, stir 
into the hot puree, stirring constantly for 
five minutes ; add a teaspoonful and a half 
of salt and half a teaspoonful of pepper. 
Press again through the sieve, reheat, and 
it will be ready to serve. 

A puree of chicken is usually made the 
day following that upon which you have 
had boiled chicken on the menu. Save the 
water in which the chicken was boiled for 
the puree. Take any bits of meat that may 
have been left and the bones. Crack the 
bones carefully, add them to the water in 
which the chicken was boiled, and cook 



The Making of Soups 13 

slowly for one hour and then strain. Add 
half a cup of rice and the chicken meat. 
Return to the fire and cook slowly for half 
an hour. Press the whole through a sieve, 
add a tablespoonful of grated onion, just a 
suspicion of powdered mace, a quarter of a 
teaspoonful of celery seed, and two bay 
leaves. Return this mixture to the fire and 
cook slowly on the back part of the stove 
for fifteen minutes. Now add sufl3cient 
milk, about half a pint, to give the puree a 
good color. I have taken for granted here 
that you started with two quarts of chicken 
stock or the water in which the chicken was 
cooked. Rub together two tablespoonfuls 
of butter and two of flour, stir into the mix- 
ture, stirring constantly for five minutes. 
Press . once more through a fine sieve, re- 
heat, and serve. This is, perhaps, the 
daintiest of £tll the purees, and is an excel- 
lent soup for a noonday meal. 

Mock Turtle Soup 

Purchase a calf s head with the skin on. 
Carefully clean it as soon as it comes from 
the market; scrub the skin until it is per- 



14 The Making of Soups 

fectly white, and with a sharp knife cut it 
from the head in one or two pieces. Wash 
well in cold water, then scald it. Clean 
the head thoroughly, taking out, of course, 
the brains. Pat the head in a soup-kettle, 
put in the skin, cover with five quarts of 
cold water, bring to boiling point and skim. 
Simmer gently for three hours. Lift the 
head and skin and put them aside to cool. 
Add to the stock the same flavorings as in 
the receipt given below for calfs head; 
cover, simmer gently for an hour, then 
strain. When the head is cool remove the 
tongue, skin it and cut into dice. Cut the 
skin of the head into small squares and put 
them aside. The remaining meat of the 
head and brains may be used for other 
dishes, as it is not required in making mock 
turtle soup. Put two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter and two of flour into the soup-kettle, 
stir until a light brown, add two quarts of 
the stock, stir constantly until boiling, add 
a teaspoonful of soup coloring and the 
tongue and skin. When boiling hot pour 
it into the tureen, over three hard-boiled 
eggs cut into slices, one lemon cut into 



The Making of Soups 1 5 

thin slices and then into quarters. Add 
now two teaspoonfuls of salt and a tea- 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce. 

A Group of Odd Soups 

There are a few odd and elegant soups 
that hardly oome under any of the headings 
given. I refer now to calf s head soup, 
oxtail soup, elegant soups made by starting 
a special foundation. Calf s head soup, 
while it sounds expensive, is, perhaps, one 
of the cheapest of the class. For this pur- 
chase a plain skinned calf s head and one 
or two trotters ; have them well cleaned and 
cracked. Put the trotters in a kettle, thor- 
oughly wash the head, remove the brains, 
take out the tongue, and thoroughly cleanse 
the throat. Wash the head thoroughly in 
several cold waters, then scald and wash it 
again. Place it in a kettle with the trotters, 
and cover with five quarts of cold water. 
Simmer gently for three hours. Then add 
one onion in which you have stuck four 
cloves, one carrot sliced, a stick of celery, a 
turnip cut into quarters, a parsnip cut into 
halves, two bay leaves ; cover and simmer 



1 6 The Making of Soups 

one hour longer. Lift carefully the head 
and put it aside to cool. It is much better 
if you can stand it aside over night. Next 
morning remove the fat from the surface of 
the soup and turn it out. It will now be a 
solid jelly. Remove the sediment from the 
bottom, put the tongue aside, as you will 
not need it for the soup. Cut the meat 
from the head into blocks and put it aside. 
Into a large kettle put two tablespoonful& 
of butter, add four tablespoonfuls of 
browned flour, mix. Add two quarts of 
the stock and stir constantly until boiling* 
Add a teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet, or- 
dinary soup coloring, two teaspoonfuls of 
salt, a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, 
and the meat. Stand over the fire where 
it will gradually come to the boiling point. 
Place in the tureen. Cut into slices three 
hard-boiled eggs and one lemon ; pour the 
soup over and it will be ready to serve. 



FISH OF ALL KINDS 

THERE has not been sufficient accu- 
rate analysis to make any table 
regarding the chemical composition of fish 
at all reliable. The albuminoid matter in 
white fish, as cod, haddock, and halibut, is 
in about the same proportion as in beef 
and mutton. They contain, however, more 
phospiiorus — the active fish, such as trout 
and pickerel, containing a still greater 
amount, due no doubt to their activity. 
The amount of carbon depends largely 
upon the amount of fat they contain. The 
white fish are, therefore, deficient in carbon. 
If you should ask an intelligent cook what 
vegetables to serve with a boiled whitefish 
she would answer quickly, potatoes, as they 
supply the wanting carbohydrates. 

There are other kinds of fish, however, 
such as salmon, catfish, and sturgeon, that 

2 



 f 



1 8 Fish of All Kinds 

rare quite well supplied with carbohydrates, 
in consequence of which they are not so 
easily digested as the white fish. The more 
oil they have dispersed through the body, 
the more difficult the digestion. In the 
white fish the fat is held in the liver ; in the 
dark fish it is dispersed through the entire 
flesh. From this fact we learn that dark 
fish make a much better diet for the active 
man. Many authorities affirm that the 
more active fish, as wejl as the more active 
animals, give better muscle-making food 
than their more indolent relations. 

Terrapin, turtles and frogs, and mol- 
l^sks, such as oysters, clams and scollops, 
-come under the heading of fish food, as do 
also lobsters, crabs, prawns, shrimps and 
crawfish, the latter being more plentiful 
on the Southern and Californian coasts. In 
the terrapin order we have, beside the 
expensive and luxurious " diamond-back," 
its poorer relation, the Juniata, and the 
•common fresh-water red-leg, the elegant 
green turtle, and the mud turtle. The lat- 
ter, when daintily cooked, is a luxurious 
and economical dish. 



Fish of All Kinds 19 

The Selection of Fish 

Select fish with firm flesh, clear eyes, 
red gills, scales bright, and free from any 
unpleasant odor. As soon as fish comes 
from the market it should be scaled, cleaned, 
and well washed. This is frequently done 
by the fishmonger, but if one stops for a 
moment to look at the water in which the 
fish has been washed, and the manner of 
the scaling, she will not be satisfied with- 
out having the fish re-cleaned at home,, 
where there is plenty of running water. 
After cleaning put it on a large plate and 
stand at once in a cold place. If your 
refrigerator is well ventilated the fish may 
be placed therein, but if the refrigerator 
is small it is better to put the fish in the 
cellar. When possible a refrigerator should 
be kept especially for fish and oysters. 

When you are ready to boil fish wipe it 
carefully, dust thoroughly with salt, and 
wrap it in a piece of cheesecloth. Have 
the cloth about four inches longer than the 
fish. Place the fish carefully into a long 
kettle of boiling water, add a teaspoonful 



ao Fish of All Kinds 

of salt, a slice of onion, a bay leaf, a sprig 
of parsley, and a bit of celery. Cover the 
kettle and stand over a moderate fire where 
it will simmer. Cook ten minutes to each 
pound. Lift it carefully, open the cloth, 
turn the fish upon a folded napkin on the 
serving-dish, and garnish with slices of 
lemon and parsley. 

Flanked W^hitefish and Shad 

This method of cooking is, as a rule, 
confined to club-houses, where large open 
fires are accessible, but I assure my readers 
that a planked fish may be served to per- 
fection in the smallest and most modest 
home in America. The peculiar fiavor 
imparted by the heating plank makes the 
fish more delicious than when cooked in 
any other way. If one has a gas stove the 
method is quite simple, but the oven of 
a coal range may also be used with success. 
Secure a two-inch plank made from hard 
wood, oak or hickory, the size of the 
oven ; when ready to use put it in the oven 
until it is so hot that you cannot bear your 
hand on it for an instant. Have the fish 



Fish of All Kinds 21 

split down the back ; put it, skin down, on 
the hot plank ; dust with salt and pepper 
and baste with melted butter. In an ordi- 
nary coal stove, put it on the oven bottom, 
close the oven door and bake for thirty 
minutes, basting two or three times. When 
the fish is done take it from the oven, 
garnish with parsley and lemon, and send 
it to the table on the plank, placed on a 
Japanese lacquer tray, just a little larger 
than the plank. Whitefish may be planked 
in the same way. 

"When Using a Gas Stove 

Shad may be planked on a gas stove by 
putting the plank under the lights in the 
boiling oven, until thoroughly heated. Put 
the fish on, skin side down; baste it; dust 
with salt and pepper and cook it on the 
VQry bottom of the broiling oven. As soon 
as the- fish is nicely browned turn down the 
gas and cook slowly for thirty minutes. 
Garnish and serve. If you have an open 
fii'f- stand the plank before the fire, and when 
very hot tack on the fish, head up; baste 
with butter ; dust with salt and pepper, and 



22 Fish of All Kinds 

stand the board as near the fire as possiblei 
Baste once or twice during the planking, 
which will take at least three-quarters of 
an hour. Roe sauce is exceedingly nice to 
serve with planked shad. Whitefish and 
shad are the choice planking fish. 

Frying Small Fish 

The old and true saying is: " Small fisli 
should swim twice — once in water and 
once in oil." Smelts, trout, whitebait, 
perch, and catfish are, perhaps, more palat- 
able fried than broiled. Small fish may be 
stripped — that is, the intestines may be 
pushed out under the gills, so that the fish 
may retain their shape. Wash and dry, 
then dust with salt and pepper, dip in egg 
and roll in bread-crumbs, or they may be 
rolled in cornmeal. Have ready a good- 
sized pan with suflScient oil to cover. Put 
the fish in a frying-basket, then into the oil 
at a temperature of 360° Fahrenheit, and 
cook for about five minutes. Drain on 
brown paper and serve. Where a small 
quantity of fat is used, and the fish cooked 
on one side and then turned and cooked on 



Fish of All Kinds 23 

the other, the method is really not frying — 
it is sauteing ; the result is much more in- 
digestible than real frying. Catfish are 
frequently fried in this way without being 
dipped in crumbs. Sunfish may be rolled 
in flour or cornmeal and carefully fried in 
dripping, oil or lard. A mixture of drip- 
ping and lard makes a better frying mate- 
rial than lard alone. A pure vegetable oil 
is freer from danger of disease germs than 
either. Never use butter for frying fish; 
it boils at a low temperature, consequently 
burns quickly ; the butyric acid softens the 
fibre of the fish, destroys the flavor, and 
causes it to become soft as soon as taken 
from the pan. Fish that leave a greasy 
mark on the serving-plate are certainly not 
fit for food, and fish cooked in butter are 
sure to do this. Smelts may be neatly 
dished on a napkin, tiie heads all one way. 
Sauce tartare may be served with them. 
Halibut, perhaps, makes the nicest fry. 
Purchase a slice of halibut, about one inch 
thick, remove the bone and skin and cut 
the halibut into pieces two inches square - 
Dust with salt and pepper, dip in egg and 



!24 Fish of AU Kinds 

bread-crumbs, and fry in smokiug-hot fat- 
This may be served plain with sauce tartare, 
or with a rich cream sauce. Other large fish 
should not be fried unless they are cut into 
fillets and fried in the same manner as 
halibut. 

Baked Fish, Sauce Hollandaise 

Fish, such as rock, shad, — in fact, all 
white fish and blue fish, may be baked. It 
is rather a misfortune to bake rockfish, they 
are so delicious boiled. For baking, draw 
the intestines out at the gills, but do not 
split the fish. Make a stuffing from a cup 
of crumbs, a few drops of onion juice, a 
teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of 
melted butter, and a dash of pepper. 
Fill the fish with this, and with a single 
stitch fasten the fish together, drawing 
the jaws down into place. Score one 
side of the fish with gashes one inch apart. 
Put into each one a strip of salt fat 
pork. Place three or four pieces of bacon 
in the bottom of a baking-pan, place the 
fish on top, covering the tail with a piece of 
oiled paper. This part of the fish being 



Fish of All Kinds 25 

thin, is apt to become brown and discolored 
before the body of the fish is cooked, and 
consequently spoils its appearance. Dust 
the fish with salt, pepper, and flour. Put 
th-e fish in the bottom of a pan with a cup 
of water, and bake in a hot oven, allowing 
fifteen minutes to each pound of fish, and 
baste every ten minutes. When done lift 
carefully with a long slice, place in the 
centre of the dish on which it is to be served, 
and garnish the sides of the dish with potato 
balls and parsley. Down the centre of the 
fish put a few thin slices of lemon well 
covered with finely-chopped parsley. Serve 
with sauce Hollandaise. 

Small fish, such as yellow perch or black 
river bass, may be stuffed with mashed 
potatoes seasoned with salt, pepper, and 
onion juice, and baked in a quick oven a 
half hour. Serve with them cucumbers 
with French dressing. 

Fiah k la Beine 

Put one tablespoonful of butter and one 
of flour in a saucepan ; mix, and add half 
a pint of milk ; stir until boiling ; take from 



26 Fish of All Kinds 

* 

the fire ; add the yolk of one egg^ and, if 
you have them, three mushrooms chopped 
fine; add a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, half a teaspoonful of salt, and 
a dash of pepper. Stir gradually into 
this one cup and a half of cold boiled 
fish picked fine, and stand the mixture 
over hot water for just a moment until 
thoroughly heated. Arrange in a border 
of mashed potatoes, dust lightly with 
chopped parsley, and serve. This same 
mixture may be filled into individual shells 
or paper cases, slightly browned in the 
oven, and served as a second course at 
luncheon. 

Fish Sauces of all Kinds 

To make roe sauce, wash the roe, throw 
them into a kettle of boiling water and 
allow them to simmer for twenty minutes ; 
drain, put them in a bowl, and with a silver 
fork remove carefully all membrane; add 
a quarter of a pound of butter, and heat 
over a pan of hot water. When thoroughly 
hot add a gill of cream or milk, a level 
teaspoonful of salt, ten drops of onion juice, 



Fish of All Kinds 27 

a quarter of a teaspoonful of mace, and 
serve in a sauce-boat. 

Sauce Hollandaise may be made by mix- 
ing one tablespoonful of butter and one of 
flour in a saucepan and adding gradually 
half a pint of boiling water. Stir until it 
just reaches the boiling point ; take from 
the fire and add the yolks of two eggs. 
Into another saucepan put a slice of onion, 
a bay leaf, and a clove of garlic ; add four 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and stand over 
the fire until the vinegar is reduced one-half. 
Turn this into the sauce, stir for a moment ; 
strain through a fine sieve ; add half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and serve. This sauce 
may be varied by adding lemon juice instead 
of vinegar, or by using the water in which 
the fish was boiled. It is one of the 
daintiest of all sauces. 

Plain cream sauce to serve with boiled 
fish is made by stirring a tablespoonful of 
butter and one of fioui* together over the 
fire and adding half a pint of milk. Stir 
constantly until it reaches the boiling point ; 
add half a teaspoonful of salt and a quarter 
of a teaspoonful of pepper. This may bQ 



28 Fish of All Kinds 

'converted into an egg sauce by stirring in 
at the last moment two hard-boiled eggs 
chopped fine. 

Sauce tartare is made by placing the 
yolks of four eggs, four tablespoonfuls 
of water, and four teaspoonfuls of olive 
oil into a bowl. Mix thoroughly. Stand 
the bowl in boiling water, and stir con- 
stantly until the mixture thickens. Take 
from the fire; add a tablespoonful of 
tarragon vinegar, two olives, one gherkin^ 
and a tablespoonful of capers, chopped fine. 
Chop suflacient parsley to make a table- 
spoonful; rub fine; work this into the 
sauce; add half a teaspoonful of salt, a; 
dash of cayenne, and use at once. 

Oysters Fried in Oil 

Drain twenty-five fat oysters. Lift each 
carefully, place on a board and dry with a 
soft cheesecloth; dust with salt and cay- 
enne. Beat two eggs without separating,, 
and add to them two tablespoonfuls of hot 
water. Put out on the board at least a 
quart of nice, dry bread-crumbs. Do not 
use cracker-crumbs. Dip the oysters first 



Fish of All Kinds 29 

in the crumbs, then quickly in the egg and 
back in the crumbs. Lift the oysters with 
the fingers, grasping the muscular or hard 
pari. It spoils the oyster to pierce it with 
a fork and it cannot be lifted with a spoon. 
After all are covered put them out singly 
on a dry board. Put your oil, lard, or suet 
rrrer the fire. When it registers 365° 
Fahrenheit, or browns a piece of bread in 
twenty seconds, put the oysters in a wire 
basket, sink the basket in the smoking fat, 
and fry the oysters for two minutes, until 
a golden brown. Five or six at a time only 
should be cooked. Lift them carefully, 
stand them edgewise on a piece of brown 
paper in a baking-pan. Fry the remaining- 
quantity, six at a time. Dish at once, 
garnish the plate with parsley, and send to 
the table smoking hot. Each should come 
from the fat as dry and free from grease as 
though it had been cooked in water. 

Creamed and Fricasseed Oysters 

Drain fifty oysters; wash by pouring 
gradually over them a pitcher of cold water ; 
put them in a saucepan ; stir carefully until 



20 Fish of All Kinds 

they reach the boiling point; drain again, 
this time saving the liquor. Measure, and 
add to the liquor thus obtained sufficient 
milk to make one pint. Put two table- 
spoonfuls of butter and two of flour in a 
saucepan ; add the oyster liquor and milk, 
and stir constantly until boiling, then add 
a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of a tea- 
tspoonful of pepper, and the oysters. Heat 
gradually and serve. By adding the yolks 
of two eggs just before taking the oysters 
from the fire, and a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley after they have been dished, 
you will have a fricassee of oysters which 
may be served on toast, or the plate may 
be garnished with squares of toast. 



THE COOKING OF MEAT 



The ratio of water in meat, fish, and 
fowl is quite uniform, but the propor- 
tion of fat and albuminoids shows the 
widest diversity. Beef contains more nour- 
ishment than mutton; the latter, how- 
ever, is more easily digested. The more 
albumen flesh contains the more tender it is. 
Lamb, veal, and spring chickens are more 
tender than the full-grown of the same 
species. But as albumen is more difficult 
of digestion when over-cooked, these im- 
mature meats must all be well cooked to 
l)e eatable; then they require five hours 
for perfect digestion. Lamb and chicken, 
however, require less time than veal. 

The internal organs of animals, as liver, 
tripe, sweetbreads, heart, and kidneys, are 
also used as food. Sweetbreads and tripe, 
being a part of the digestive viscera, are 



32 The Cooking of Meat 

the most easily digested of all animal 
foods, requiring but one hour. If kidneys 
are used they should be taken from the 
young animals. This is true, also, of the 
liver. Calf's and lamb's livers may be per- 
fectly wholesome food, but livers of the 
older animals should be avoided. The 
heads and feet of animals are also used for 
various dishes, as calf s-head soup, deviled 
calf's head, calf's-foot jelly, and the old- 
fashioned Scotch haggis, which is made 
from the sheep's head and pluck. 

Beef should be fine-grained, of a clear 
red color, with firm, yellow-white fat. 
Select for broiling, a sirloin, porterhouse, or 
rump steak ; for roasting or baking, the 
standing ribs, the chuck ribs, or the pin- 
bone ; for stewing, the tougher or so-called 
inferior pieces, such as the shoulder, round, 
flank, or neck pieces; for Hamburg steaks, 
the top of the sirloin ; for corning, the 
plate dnd brisket; for corning and drying, 
the round. The skirt or flank steak is the 
best piece for rolling. 

Roasting is the best way of cooking a 
joint, but a lack of conveniences in our 



The Cooking of Meat ^3 

modern kitchens necessitates the substitu- 
tion of an easier method, so baking is the 
one to which we universally resort. 

Baked Ribs of Beef 

Place the joint, neatly trimmed, with 
the ribs down, in the bottom of the bak- 
ing-pan ; dust the fat lightly with pepper ; 
add a teaspoonf ul of salt to half a pint of 
hot water ; pour this over the bottom of the 
pan. Place the whole in a very hot oven. 
In ten minutes begin to baste with the drip- 
ping from the pan. When the meat is 
sufficiently crusted to retain the juices, cool 
down the oven and bake in a more mod- 
erate heat fifteen minutes to each pound. 
The smaller the roast the shorter the pro- 
portion of time. When the meat is done, 
dish. Pour from the pan all but two table- 
spoonfuls of the fat ; to this add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour ; mix, and add one pint 
of stock or water. Stir until boiling ; add 
a teaspoonf ul of salt, a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, and strain through a 
fine sieve. The surface of the sauce should 
be free from grease. 

3 



34 The Cooking of Meat 

Broiling or Panning Steak 

Select a steak at least one inch, or bet- 
ter, an inch and a half, in thickness. Heat 
a wire broiler, rub the wires quickly with a 
piece of suet, place the steak between 
them, and then over a clear, bright fire. 
As soon as seared on one side turn and 
Bear on the other. Turn again and again. 
Now rest it on your broiler stand, and broil 
slowly for ten minutes if one inch thick, 
twelve minutes if one and a half, turning 
every half minute. Place to heat your 
serving-dish, and stand on the back of the 
BtoVe a good-sized pie-dish, containing a 
tablespoonful of butter, half a teaspoonful 
of salt and a dash of pepper. When the 
feteak is done transfer it to the pie-dish and 
baste it well with the seasoning ; then dish 
it on the serving-plate, pour over the re- 
mainiiig butter, garnish with lemon and 
parsley and serve at once. Where soft 
coal is used it is well nigh impossible to 
broil nicely. The next best method is pan- 
ning. Prepare the steak as for broiling. 
Put over the fire a large sheet-iron pan; 



The Cooking of Meat 35 

when the pan is very hot throw in thQ 
steak, and with a long fork keep turning 
constantly every twenty seconds until you 
have cooked the steak the same length of 
time as you would if broiling. The pan 
must be kept hot or the fat will melt ; the 
steak then will really be fried, which will 
destroy its flavor and render it indigestible, 
Season and dish in the same way as broiled 
steak. Chops are broiled in the same way. 

The Stewing of Beef 

Stewing is the most economical method 
of cooking meats; the loss in weight is 
less, and one may use the so-called inferior 
pieces. When one considers that a bullock 
weighing eight hundred pounds contains 
only about one hundred and twenty pounds 
of what are called choice pieces, and from 
eight to ten pounds of tenderloin, we can 
readily understand that there must be a 
large proportion of these " inferior pieces." 
Select for your stew any of the cheaper 
pieces of beef. Cut into squares of one 
inch. Dust thickly with flour. To each 
pound of meat allow one ounce of suet ; pull 



^6 The Cooking of Meat 

this apart, throw it into the saucepan, stir 
until thoroughly rendered. Remove the 
crackling, or the flavor of the stew will 
be spoiled. Throw the meat into the hot 
suet, shake over the fire until each piece is 
browned. Draw them to the side of the 
pan, add a tablespoonful of flour, mix, and 
add half a pint of stock or water. Stir 
until boiling. Add a slice of onion, a bay 
leaf, a sprig of celery, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, and a dash of pepper. Cover the 
saucepan and cook slowly for one hour. 
Then put one cup of flour into a bowl, add 
a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt and a 
level teaspoonful of baking powder; mix 
thoroughly, and add gradually half a cup 
of milk, just enough to moisten. Mix and 
drop by teaspoon fuls over the top of the 
stew. Cover the saucepan, and cook for 
ten minutes without lifting the cover. Dish 
these dumplings around the edge of the 
dish, pour the stew in the centre, sprinkle 
over a little chopped parsley, and serve. 
This receipt is intended for one pound; 
multiply all the ingredients by the number 
of pounds of meat used with the exceptioa 



The Cooking of Meat 37 

of the dumplings. For four pounds of 
meat one would not require more than a 
pint of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, and salt and pepper in proportion. 

Mutton and Lamb 

The flesh of mutton should be a bnght 
red color, the fat firm and white. Select 
for boiling, a leg or shoulder ; for roasting 
or baking, a loin or saddle ; for broiling, 
the rack cut into French chops ; loin chops 
may also be used ; for stewing, the neck or 
upper part of the rack, and for broth or 
soup, the neck and feet, or head. To boil 
a leg of mutton wipe it carefully with a 
damp cloth. Dust a piece of cheesecloth 
thickly with flour, roll the leg in it, tie, 
place it in a kettle of boiling water, and 
boil rapidly for five minutes. Then push 
the kettle on the back part of the stove, 
where the water will be kept at a tempera- 
ture of 200° Fahrenheit, cooking twenty * 
minutes to each pound. When done re- 
move the cloth, dish the mutton, and serve 
with it caper sauce. Lamb, like mutton, 
should be a bright red color, with white 



38 The Cooking of Meat 

fat ; it is best when two months old. While 
mutton is much better if hung, lamb should 
be used within three days after killing. 
The better way of cooking is to roast or 
bake it, and the forequarter is the choice 
portion. Wipe it with a damp towel, place it 
in a baking-pan, dust it lightly with pepper. 
Put a cup of water, with a teaspoonful of 
salt dissolved, in the bottom of the pan, 
and place the whole in a very quick oven. 
In a few moments the water will have evap- 
orated and the bottom of the pan will be 
covered with dripping. Baste with this 
every ten minutes, baking fifteen minutes 
to each pound, keeping the oven medium 
hot from beginning to end. Serve with it 
mint sauce. 

Breaded Veal Cutlets 

The flesh of veal should be firm with a 
pinkish tinge, and the bones well formed 
and hard. Young veal is not only unwhole- 
some but dangerous. For cutlets use a full 
slice one inch thick from the leg ; trim off 
the skin and cut the meat into squares of 
about two inches. The formation of this 



The Cooking of Meat 39 

portion of the leg is such that it is quite 
impossible to make the pieces uniform. 
Where two small pieces come in a cut fasten 
them together with a small wooden skewer, 
leaving sufficient of the skewer in sight to 
enable one to easily remove it before serv- 
ing. Dust these lightly with pepper, dip 
them in beaten egg and then in bread- 
crumbs ; sprinkle lightly with salt, and have 
ready a pan of hot fat. Put a few at a 
time of these squares into your frying- 
basket, sink them in the hot fat, and fry 
slowly for at least five minutes. Drain 
them on soft paper, dish on a hot platter, 
and serve them with tomato sauce. The 
cutlet may also be fried whole. Dust in 
flour, and fry in a small quantity of hot 
fat. Serve on a hot platter garnished with 
parsley. 

Ham Baked in Cider 

Secure a small lean ham. Wash thor- 
oughly and soak over night. Next morning 
wipe perfectly dry, and sprinkle over the 
flesh side a tablespoon ful of chopped onion, 
a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, the same 



40 The Cooking of Meat 

of allspice, a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
mace, the same of ground cloves. Make a 
paste of flour and water, roll it out, cover it 
over the flesh side of the ham, packing it 
down close to the skin. Put the ham, skin 
side down, in a baking-pan ; pour into the 
pan two quarts of cider, to which you have 
added half a teaspoonful of white pepper 
and half a teaspoonful of paprika. Cover 
with another pan, and bake in a moderate 
oven two hours, basting every twenty min- 
utes. At the end of this time remove the 
upper pan, and allow the ham to cook two 
hours longer. "When ready to dish remove 
carefully the paste, then the skin. Trim the 
bone neatly, brush the skin side with beaten 
egg, dust it thickly with bread-crumbs and 
chopped parsley, and put it in a quick oven 
to brown. Skim off the fat from the cider, 
boil it down until you have one pint, which 
you may turn into the sauce-bowl. When 
the ham is browned take from the oven, 
garnish the bone with a quill of paper, and 
serve it in a bed of cress. Slices of red- 
skinned apples may be' placed here and 



I there in the cress as a decoration. 



The Cooking of Meat 41 

Sauces for Cooked Meats 

To make tomato sauce put a tablespoon- 
f ul of butter and one of flour in a sauce- 
pan ; mix untU smooth ; add half a pint of 
strained tomato, a bay leaf, a quarter of a 
teaspoonful of celery seed. Stir constantly 
until boiling; add half a teaspoonful of 
salt, a quarter of a teaspoonful of paprika ; 
strain and use. 

Mushroom sauce is made by placing one 
tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan, 
browning slightly; then add one table- 
spoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of chopped 
onion, a bay leaf, and half a pint of stock. 
Stir constantly until boiling; cover and 
stand over hot water for ten minutes; 
strain ; add half a can of mushrooms, half a 
teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful of 
pepper. Cover and stand again for ten 
minutes over hot water and it will be ready 
to serve. 

To make caper sauce, which is usually 
served with boiled mutton, put two table- 
spoonfuls of butter and two of flour in a 



42 The Cooking of Meat 

saucepan ; mix until smooth ; add one pint 
of the water in which the mutton was boiled ; 
stir constantly until boiling; add a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a tablespoonf ul of capers, 
a quarter of a teaspoonf ul of pepper, and 
about ten drops of onion juice. 

Mint sauce is made by taking the leaves 
from six stalks of mint, and washing, dry- 
ing, and chopping them very fine. Put them 
into a bowl ; add two teaspoonf uls of gran- 
ulated sugar, rub well ; add then four table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. Stir until the sugar 
is dissolved and serve. 

Braised Calf's Heart 

Wash well in cold water two calves' 
hearts, being careful to remove the clot of 
blood from the tip. With a sharp knife cut 
out the muscular tubes from the upper por- 
tion. Pour into each heart two tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar and stand them aside over 
night. Next morning put two cups of 
bread-crumbs into a bowl ; add a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonf ul 
of salt, a quarter of a teaspoonful of pep- 
per, two tablespoonfuls of finely-chopped 



The Cooking of Meat 43 

celery, or a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
celery seed. Pour over two tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter; mix. Rinse the hearts 
in cold water, wipe them dry, and put in the 
stuffing. With a single stitch fasten to- 
gether the tops ; stand them tip down in a 
small saucepan. Add a bay leaf, a slice of 
onion, and partly cover with boiling water. 
Cover the saucepan and allow them to 
simmer gently for one hour. Then place 
the hearts in a baking-pan and baste them 
with melted butter. Strain into the pan 
the water in which they were cooked, and 
bake them in the oven one hour longer. 
When done dish in the centre of the platter, 
having the tips to the ends, and garnish the 
dish with a mac^doine. Make a brown 
sauce, using the liquor in which the hearts 
were cooked. 

Baked Calfs Liver 

Carefully prepare a calfs liver, and 
lard it thickly over the top, with the lar- 
doons sufficiently large to fill a good-sized 
larding needle. Into the bottom of the 
baking-pan put a small onion sliced, a 



44 The Cooking of Meat 

carrot sliced, a stick of celery cut into^ 
pieces, two bay leaves, a sprig of parsley, 
four cloves, and a teaspoonful of pepper 
corns. If without the latter, use the ordi- 
nary ground pepper, but only one-quarter 
the quantity. Place liver on top of these ; 
add one quart of boiling water, in which, 
you have dissolved a teaspoonful of salt. 
Cover the pan with another of the same 
size ; bake in a quick oven one hour, bast- 
ing every fifteen minutes. Remove the 
upper pan and bake thirty minutes longer. 
Serve with a brown sauce made from the 
liquor in the pan. 



THE COOKING OF POULTRY 

Poultry in the Markets 

Turkeys, chickens, ducks, and geese are 
on sale during the greater part of the 
year. Turkeys are, as a rule,* well-fed, 
carefully killed, and come to market dry- 
picked and with their heads and feet on. 
Chickens, ducks, and geese are on sale killed 
and picked, and in some markets dressed. 
In the Southern markets they are apt to be 
sold alive, in which case it is better to keep 
them housed for a few days before killing, 
feeding them well with corn, which will make 
the white meat much sweeter and the dark 
meat a better color. 

Spring chickens are so unlike poultry in 
appearance that the young housewife fre- 
quently makes a mistake in selecting. The 
skin of the spring chicken is naturally rough 
and filled with pin-feathers, the feet long 
and knotty. 



46 The Cooking of Poultry 

Selecting and Dressing 

Choose a young hen turkey for roasting. 
The legs should be black, the skin and f esh 
white, the breast broad and plump. The 
shorter the neck the better. An old one 
would have rough, reddish legs, the breast 
would be flat, the skin coarse, and the breast- 
bone exceedingly hard. The gobbler, if 
young, would have black legs and small 
spurs. A gobbler is usually much larger 
than a hen, even at the same age, and it is 
consequently less economical, as the carcass 
weighs heavy. Under no consideration pur- 
chase an old gobbler. The flesh is strong 
and tough, requires great care in cooking, 
and even then is not at all palatable. 

As soon as the turkey comes from the 
market, singe it carefully over a burning 
gas jet, or over a tablespoonful of burning 
alcohol. If paper is used twist it into a 
knot, place it in a baking-pan on the table^ 
light the paper and stand aside, hold- 
ing the turkey over the flame, turning con- 
stantly until it is well singed. As soon as 
you have finished the singeing put the tur- 



The Cooking of Poultry 47 

key into a large pan of cold water, and scrub 
and wash the skin thoroughly, then rinse 
and wipe perfectly dry. Then with a 
cleaver cut off the head, leaving a long 
neck ; cut the skin at the side of the leg 
joint and very lightly over the top, bending 
the foot back to loosen the ligaments on 
the upper part of the leg ; with a wooden 
skewer draw these out, putting each under 
the thumb, that they may not interfere with 
the drawing of those remaining. Then cut 
through the tough muscle until you come to 
a group of hard ligaments on the back of the 
leg, and one by one pull these out, drawing 
them toward you ; then cut the skin and 
remove the foot. Do the second leg in the 
same way. Make a long gash on the back 
of the neck, fold the skin down over the 
breast and remove the crop, being very 
careful not to break it. When thoroughly 
loosened cut it, and also the windpipe, and 
remove both. Make an incision at the end 
of the breastbone of the turkey, loosen 
carefully all the intestines, and turn them 
out without breaking. With a sharp knife 
cut around the large intestines, and your 



48 The Cooking of Poultry 

turkey is drawn. If the heart and lungs 
have not come out with the intestines 
remove them also. Rinse with clean cold 
water and wash out the inside of the tur- 
key, though if care has been taken this is 
not necessary, as Nature has protected it 
most carefully. 

Preparing the Turkey 

When the turkey is to be served or 
cooked on the day on which you purchase it 
it may be stuffed at once. It may, how- 
ever, be hung in a cold place for three or 
four days, and will probably be the better 
for it. 

The ideal dressing is made from boiled 
chestnuts, seasoned simply with butter, 
salt, and pepper. If you wish to be very 
extravagant you may add a chopped truffle. 
The average housewife uses bread-crumbs 
seasoned with salt and pepper, or with 
oysters. Whichever it may be care must be 
taken not to destroy the flavor of the tur- 
key with highly-seasoned dressing. For 
an eight-pound turkey allow one quart of 
bread-crumbs. Pour over them two ounces 



The Cooking of Poultry 49 

of melted butter ; add a teaspoonful of salt, 
a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, and 
two tablespoonf uls of chopped parsley ; mix, 
and put two tablespoonfuls into the space 
from which you have taken the crop, then 
your turkey will be ready to be trussed. 

Trussing the Turkey 

Cut the neck short to the breast of the 
turkey and sew up the skin. Then tuck 
the wings back and with a single stitch 
fasten them into shape. Put the remaining 
part of the dressing in the body, sewing up 
the vent from which you drew the intes- 
tines. Carefully work the skin down to 
the very end of the leg bones, pushing the 
legs up under the breast skin, and with a 
single stitch right through the body of the 
turkey hold these legs into position. They 
should hug closely the breast. Bring the 
two leg bones down and fasten them to the 
rump, running the trussing needle through 
the lower part of the backbone. Tie firmly, 
removing the oil bag from the upper part 
of the rump before the legs are fastened. 
The turkey will then be in a perfectly com- 

4 



50 The Cooking of Poultry 

pact form and ready for baking. Place it 
in the baking-pan; dissolve a teaspoonfui 
of salt in a cup of water and pour it in the 
pan. Remove the fat from the gizzard, 
place it over the breast of the turkey, dust 
lightly with pepper, and put it at once in 
a very quick oven. In about five minutes 
open the door and baste the turkey. In 
ten minutes the water will have evaporated, 
and there will be in the bottom of the pan 
a little melted fat, which you may use for 
basting. The oven should be sufficiently 
hot to brown the turkey in twenty minutes. 
Then lower the heat, allowing the turkey 
to bake fifteen minutes to each pound, not 
counting the first half hour. 

Making the Giblet Sauce 

The giblets, which consist of the neck, 
liver, heart, and gizzard, should be put 
into a saucepan, covered with cold water, 
and allowed to cook slowly while the turkey 
is baking. When the turkey is done re- 
move the strings and lift it carefully into 
the serving-dish. Pour from the pan all 
the fat but two tablespoonfuls^ to which 



The Cooking of Poultry 51 

add two tablespoonf uls of flour ; mix thor- 
oughly, brown slightly. Drain the water 
from the giblets, which should measure one 
pint; turn it at once into the pan, stir 
Until the mixture is boiling; add a tea- 
spoonful of kitchen bouquet, the same of 
salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, and strain 
into a saucepan. Chop the giblets very 
fine, add them to the sauce; cook five 
minutes and serve. A tablespoonf ul of 
tomato ketchup may be added at the last, or 
a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce. If 
the latter, use half the quantity of pepper. 

A turkey may be boiled instead of baked 
or roasted. These three methods cover the 
turkey cookery. Various kinds of stuffing 
may be used. The American Indians, who 
served the turkey at its best, stuffed it with 
pine nuts, the outside being thoroughly 
basted with oil just before it was put over 
the fire. 

The Selectioii of Chickens 

Select dry-picked chickens with firm 
flesh, yellow skin, and smooth yellow legs. 
Some of the newer varieties have white 



52 The Cooking of Poultry- 
legs and a whiter skin than the favorite 
Dominiques. If a cock the spurs should 
be small. To judge the age bend the lower 
part of the breastbone ; if soft and pliable 
under your thumb the chicken is young. If 
the breastbone is hard the chicken is old. 
Full-grown poultry have the best flavor, 
and should be used for roasting, boiling, 
fricasseeing and stewing. These, also, 
should be used for soup. For frying or 
panning select spring chickens, — that is, 
chickens four or five months old. Singe 
them carefully and draw in precisely the 
same way as a turkey, being very careful 
not to break the intestines. 

Fried Spring Chicken 

For this dish, which is really served by 
the Virginia housewife in perfection, select 
young, rather plump chickens. Dress, 
singe, and split them down the back, being 
careful not to break the breastbone, so that 
the chicken will come to the table in good 
shape. Wash quickly and wipe dry. Put 
into a large baking-pan two tablespoonfuls 
of lard or oil, the latter being the better, 



The Cooking of Poultry 53 

and when hot put in the chickens. Fry 
brown on all sides, dust with salt and pep- 
per, then cover the pan and push it to the 
back of the stove, where it may cook slowly 
for thirty minutes. Then arrange the 
chicken upon a heated platter, and add to 
the gravy in the pan two tablespoonf uls of 
flour ; mix smoothly and add one pint of 
milk ; stir until boiling ; add a teaspoonf ul 
of salt, a dash of pepper, and strain into a 
gravy-boat. Serve with fried chicken either 
sweet potato fritters, rice croquettes, flan- 
nel cakes, or corn flour waffles. Plain boiled 
rice is always an acceptable accompaniment 
to fried chicken. 

Brcwn Fricasseed Chicken 

This is a very tasty way of serving a 
fowl. Singe, draw, and disjoint ; put into 
a good-sized saucepan two tablespoonfuls 
of butter ; when hot drop in the pieces of 
chicken; allow them to brown gradually, 
taking great care the butter does not burn. 
As soon as the pieces are browned draw 
them to one side of the saucepan, and add 
to the fat two tablespoonfuls of flour ; mix, 



54 The Cooking of Poultry 

and add one pint of stock or water. Sth 
constantly until it begins to boil, moving 
the chicken around in the sauce. Add a 
slice of onion, a bay leaf, a tablespoonful 
of chopped carrot, a teaspoonf ul of salt, and 
a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper. 
Cover the saucepan, push it to the back 
part of the stove, where the chicken may 
simmer slowly for an hour. When done, 
dish the rough pieces in the centre, crossing 
the legs on the front of the platter ; place 
the wings and the dark meat at the sides ; 
the back and breast on top. Dish your 
chicken each time in the same manner, so 
that the carver may know exactly where he 
will find the dark and the light meat. Take 
the sauce from the fire, add to it the yolk 
of one egg, beaten with two tablespoonf uls 
of cream; strain this over the chicken. 
Garnish the dish with crescents of fried 
bread, dust over a little finely-chopped 
parsley, and send to the tdble. 

Roast Duck and Goose 

Prime ducks must be fat and young, the 
lower part of the legs and webbing of the 



The Cooking of Poultry 55 

feet soft, and the under bill sufficiently soft 
to break easily. The usual rules for roast- 
ing and baking will apply to ducks and 
geese. They contain, however, much more 
fat than either turkeys or chickens ; this, 
melting while they are roasting, may be 
saved for frying purposes and used in place 
of butter. Instead of using bread-crumbs 
as dressing for ducks or geese use potato. 
For a medium-sized duck allow four good- 
sized potatoes or two cupfuls of mashed 
potatoes. While the potatoes are hot and 
light add to them one cup of choppec 
English Walnuts, a teaspoonf ul of salt, halJ 
a cup of chopped celery, and a saltspoonfu. 
of pepper. When thoroughly mixed put 
the dressing into the duck or goose, sew up 
the Tent, and it is ready to roast. The 
peculiar flavor imparted by the celery in the 
roasting gives a tame duck much the flavor 
of a wild one. Young ducks are called 
ducklings; young geese, green geese or 
goslings. An old goose is strong and 
unpalatable. One of the choice dishes 
among German- American people is goose 
stuffed ' with sauerkraut. The sauerkraut 



56 The Cooking of Poultry 

is washed thoroughly and soaked over- 
night in cold water, then stuffed into 
the goose, th€ goose trussed and cooked 
slowly. 

Some Delicious Entries 

Croquettes, boudins, timbale, all so 
elegant, both in name and appearance, may 
be made from small pieces that may be 
picked from the carcass of a roasted turkey 
or chicken, and many a boudin of game has 
been made from the remains pf a roasted 
tame duck. Boudins are made by chop- 
ping small bits of cold cooked poultry 
very fine, and adding to each pint a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a dash of cayenne, and a 
tablespoonf ul of chopped parsley. Put in a 

• saucepan one tablespoonful of butter, one 
gill of stock, and two tablespoonf uls of stale 
bread-crumbs; stir until boiling; add the 
meat, take from the fire and add two well- 

^ beaten eggs. Fill into small greased 
moulds, stand in hot water and cook in the 
oven fifteen minutes. Serve hot with a 
cream sauce made from rich milk thickened 
to the consistency of cream. 



The Cooking of Poultry 57 

Making Old-Fashioned Pot-pie 

Among our common domestic fowls we 
find the young guinea hen, which makes a 
very delicious fricassee. The same receipt 
may be followed that has been given for the 
fricasseeing of chicken, only in the place of 
butter use the fat that has been rendered 
from a quarter of a pound of salt pork. A 
guinea potpie is really a very appetizing 
dish. Disjoint one pair of carefully-pre- 
pared guineas or a four-pound fowl. Put in 
the bottom of a two-quart baking-dish a layer 
of potatoes cut into blocks; then arrange 
over the top the pieces of fowl; sprinkle 
over a little salt, pepper, and some chopped 
parsley, then another layer of potato blocks 
and more fowl ; so continue until you have 
the dish full. Put two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and two of flour into a saucepan ; 
mix and brown ; add one and a half pints 
of stock; stir constantly until it boils; 
add a teaspoon ful of salt and a saltspoonful 
of pepper. Pour this into the dish. It 
should just come to the surface of the mate- 
rial, not cover it. Chop half a cup of suet. 



58 The Cooking of Poultry 

rather fine ; add to it one cup of flour, half 
a teaspoonful of salt, and sufficient cold 
water to moisten. Roll this crust out about 
one inch in thickness ; make a hole in the 
centre; place it carefully on top of the 
baking-dish; brush with beaten egg, and 
put into a moderate oven. As soon as the 
crust is nicely browned cover it with a piece 
of oiled paper, and bake slowly for an hour 
and a half or two hours. 



THE COOKING OP 
VEGETABLES 

Although it is well known that the 
American markets give an abundance of 
vegetables, it is regretted that there is no 
country where they are so little appre- 
ciated. To this omission may be traced 
much discomfort among the poorer classes. 
The leguminous seed, peas, beans, and len- 
tils, yield almost double the amount of 
muscle-making food to be found in beef. 
One pound of beans costing five cents will 
give a food value equal to two pounds of 
beef at fifty cents, an item of economy 
worthy of thought. I am in this consider- 
ing old peas and beans ; those green or un- 
ripe contain a larger amount of water and 
more sugar, and less albuminous matter, 
but on the other hand they are more easily 
digested. 



6o The Cooking of Vegetables 

All concentrated vegetable foods require 
long, slow cooking to render them suitable 
for use. A little baking soda added to the 
water in which old peas and beans are 
cooked removes the strong flavor, making 
thfem much more delicate. 

All vegetables should be washed well in 
cold water. Green vegetables, such as 
spinach, cauliflower, cabbage, Brussels 
sprouts, cucumbers, kale, onions, leeks, 
asparagus, turnip tops, beet tops, Swiss 
chard, young peas, beans and string beans, 
should be cooked in boiling salted water, 
and boiled slowly until tender ; not a mo- 
ment longer or the flavor will be lost. 

White and Underground Vegetables 

All white and underground vegetables, 
such as potatoes, turnips, beets, parsnips, 
carrots, old peas, beans, lentils, and rice, 
should be cooked in boiling un salted water, 
the salt being added at the last moment or 
after the vegetable is drained. 

Few vegetables can be eaten with safety 
without cooking; those containing starch 
will produce the most violent indigestion. 



The Cooking of Vegetables 6i 

While steaming has long been a favorite 
method for cooking certain starchy vege- 
tables, immersing in hot water renders 
many green vegetables more wholesome, as 
it dissolves the objectionable alkaloids. 
Asparagus is an example of this kind. It 
is more tasty when steamed, more whole- 
some when boiled. 

A little more flavor may be given to green 
vegetables by making the sauce with which 
they are served from a portion of the water 
in which they have been boiled. 

Rice is the most easily digested of all 
vegetable foods, and forms the chief diet 
of three-fourths of the inhabitants of the 
earth. Next in order comes the potato, not 
so easily digested, nor nearly so nutritious 
in equal weight. The much-despised pars- 
nip contains a goodly quantity of carbon 
and ranks next in order, then cabbage and 
carrots ; the various green vegetables count 
only as bulk or waste. 

The starchy vegetables are heat and force 
producers; the legumes, flesh or muscle 
producers, — builders for the young, repair 
foods for the adult. 



62 The Cooking of Vegetables 

!the Cooking of Spinach 
'There is nothing which shows more dis- 
tinctly the difference between a good and 
careless housewife than the cooking of 
fepinach. To have it at its best, wash it 
Well through several cold waters, making 
Bure you have removed all the sand. Cut 
off the roots and stems. Drain the leaves, 
throw them into a large kettle containing a 
pint of boiling water, and sprinkle over a 
saltspoonful of salt to each two quarts of 
spinach. Cover the kettle for a minute, 
then with a wooden spoon turn or toss the 
leaves for ten minutes ; drain in a colander. 
"When dry chop very fine. Put it into a 
saucepan, add to each two quarts one ounce 
of butter, two tablespoonfuls of good 
cream, a dash of pepper, and half a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Stir constantly until hot ; 
add the juice of half a lemon and turn it 
into a heated dish. Cover the top with 
croutons and serve. 

Potatoes as an Article of Diet 
While one pound of oatmeal gives a food 
value equal to six pounds of potatoes, the 



The Cooking of Vegetables 6^ 

latter, however, are most necessary and 
useful in this country, where large quanti- 
ties of beef are used, to supply the carbon 
in which such meat is deficient:. Potatoes 
and beef, then, form a most healthful and 
rational combination, but never potatoes 
and pork« 

Plain Boiled Potatoes 

To boil potatoes put them on in boiling 
unsalted water, and boil rapidly for ten 
minutes, then more slowly until the potatoes 
are nearly done. At this point throw in a 
cup of cold water, which will cool the sur- 
face, allowing the centre to cook a moment 
longer, making the potatoes mealy. As 
soon as the water again reaches the boiling 
point drain perfectly dry, dust them with 
salt and shake lightly over the fire. When 
they are white, like little snowballs, turn 
them into a hot, uncovered dish. Potatoes 
boiled in their jackets are very tasty. The 
salts of the potato being easily soluble in 
water, have, of course, a much better 
opportunity of escaping if the skin is 
removed. 



64 The Cooking of Vegetables 

On the other hand, there is immediately 
underneath the skin a poisonous alkaloid, 
which, to be sure, is dissipated to a great 
extent in water. But one feels a little 
safer to have a thin peeling taken from 
the entire surface. This alkaloid is more 
pronounced in old potatoes. For this rea- 
son old potatoes should not only be pared, 
but soaked for ten minutes in clear cold 
water. 

Delmonico and Browned Hashed Potatoes 

Chop fine sufficient cold boiled potatoes 
to make one pint. Put one tablespoonful 
of butter and one of flour into a pan, mix ; 
add a half pint of milk, a half teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a dash of pepper; when boil- 
ing add the potatoes. Turn into a small 
baking-dish; sprinkle over the top two 
tablespoonfuls of Parmesan cheese, and 
bake in a quick oven until a light brown. 
You will find Delmonico potatoes a plea- 
sant change from the ordinary cooked-over 
ones. 

It is a well-known fact that starch cells 
heated by being cooked in hot fat are the 



The Cooking of Vegetables 65 

most indigestible of all things with which 
the stomach deals. Cold boiled potatoes 
are more or less heavy and indigestible in 
their nature; when heated with hot lard 
they are much more difficult of digestion 
than the " French fried." 

Browned hashed potatoes are, perhaps^ 
the most wholesome of all fried potatoes. 
For these chop two cold boiled potatoes 
rather fine, dust them with pepper and salt ; 
put a tablespoonful of butter in a cold 
saucepan, stand it where it will melt with- 
out browning ; when hot put in the potatoes, 
smooth down and stand on the back part of 
the stove where they will cook slowly for 
ten minutes, guarding them carefully that 
they may be only a very light brown. 
Fold them over as you would an omelet, 
turn out on a hot dish, and garnish with 
parsley. 

There are many ways of serving potatoes 
outside of the frying-pan, and without its 
assistance. Potatoes hashed in cream, 
potatoes au gratin^ baked with cream, 
scalloped potatoes, and stuffed potatoes are 
much better than plain fried potatoes. 

5 



66 The Cooking of Vegetables 

Panned and Stuffed Tomatoes 

Tomatoes belong to the same order as 
potatoes, that of the deadly nightshade. 
To this order belong tobacco, capsicum, 
and eggplant. There is no doubt that the 
fruits from all these plants must be handled 
i^ith care. Tomatoes are so common and 
necessary in these days to a well-regulated 
table that we are apt to forget that our great- 
grandmothers considered them poisonous, 
ranking them as a curiosity rather than a 
food. Tomatoes are, perhaps, more whole- 
some when served uncooked; but during 
the heated months they supply a pleasant 
variety of breakfast dishes. 

For panned tomatoes cut the tomatoes 
into halves, place them in a baking-pan, 
skin side down, sprinkle lightly with salt 
and pepper, and put in the centre of each 
a tiny bit of butter. Bake slowly until 
soft. Dish, and add to the liquor in the 
pan one pint of milk. Moisten two level 
tablespoonfuls of flour with a little cold 
milk ; add it to the pan and stir constantly 
until boiling. Add a teaspoonful of salt, 



The Cooking of Vegetables 67 

a dash of pepper, and pour it over the 
tomatoes. Garnish with squares of toast 
and serve. 

Stuffed tomatoes are prepared by cutting 
the stem end from large, solid tomatoes, 
and carefully removing the seeds. Mix 
one cup of bread-crumbs with a cup of 
finelj^-chopped meat ; add a teaspoonf ul of 
salt, a teaspoonful of chopped onion, a 
dash of pepper, and, if you have them, a 
half cup of pine nuts. Mix thoroughly and 
fill it into the space from which you have 
taken the seeds, heaping the stuffing ia 
the centre of the tomatoes. Stand the 
tomatoes in a baking-pan, add a table- 
spoonful of butter, a half pint of stock 
or water; bake in a moderate oven one 
hour, basting four or five times. Serve 
on a hot dish. 

Asparagus on Toast, Cream-Dressing 

The same rule will apply equally well for 
the boiling of all green vegetables. Aspar- 
agus requires a little different treatment. 
Like potatoes, it contains a peculiar alka- 
loid, asparagin, which possesses diuretic 



68 The Cooking of Vegetables 

properties. These alkaloids beiog soluble 
in water are naturally dissipated in the 
boiling. For hygienic reasons, then, such 
vegetables should be boiled, not steamed. 

To cook asparagus, pare the lower part 
of the stems, wash well and tie into bundles, 
heads all one way. Stand the bundles in 
a saucepan, butts down, and nearly cover 
them with boiling water ; add a teaspoonf ul 
of salt to each quart of water and cover the 
saucepan ; boil slowly for three-quarters of 
an hour. It is not necessary that the heads 
should be covered with water — they being 
tender will cook in the steam as soon as the 
butts immersed in the water. Have ready 
a meat platter covered with nicely-toasted 
bread. Lift the asparagus carefully, drain, 
and arrange it on the toast. 

Put a tablespoonful of butter and one of 
flour in a saucepan ; rub until smooth ; add 
gradually a half pint of the water in which 
the asparagus was boiled ; stir over the fire 
until boiling; add a half teaspoonf ul of 
salt, a dash of pepper, and a tablespoonful 
of lemon juice or vinegar. Pour this care- 
fully over the asparagus and serve. 



The Cooking of Vegetables 69 

Cucumbers Cooked and Uncooked 

Cucumbers are lai^ely water, containing, 
of courito, the mineral salts found in all 
«uoculent vegetables. If served uncooked, 
pare, cut into thin slices, and soak in cold 
water. As soon as they become crisp and 
tender cover with a French dressing. Do 
not add salt to the water in which they are 
soaked. 

Laige, full-grown cucumbers cooked 
-daintily may be digested with ease by the 
most delicate stomach. Cut them into 
balves, then into quarters, then into 
eighths; put them in a baking-pan, cover 
with boiling water; add a teaspoonful of 
salt, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. 
Lift them carefully with a strainer, arrange 
neatly on slices of toasted bread, and pour 
over them a sauce made as for asparagus, 
using for the sauce the water in which the 
cucumbers were boiled. 

Cabbage with Cream Sauce 

This is, perhaps, the most difficult of all 
vegetables to cook. If the water boils 



yo The Cooking of Vegetables 

rapidly during the cooking the cabbage is 
unsightly and unpalatable, and, moreover^ 
the house is filled with an unpleasant odor» 
If the following directions be carefully fol- 
lowed there will not escape one particle of 
odor. Select a head of cabbage, cut it into 
halves, then eighths. Fill a large kettle half 
full of water ; when it reaches the boiling 
point add a teaspoonful of salt to each quart 
of water, and when it boils again, for now it 
will boil at a different temperature, put the 
cabbage into the kettle. Watch carefully 
until the water again boils, then push it to the 
back of the stove where it can simmer slowly 
for thirty minutes, when the cabbage will be 
white and perfectly tender ; lift and drain it 
carefully, and arrange neatly on a platter. 
Put a tablespoonful of butter and one of 
flour in a saucepan ; stir together until 
cooked, add a half pint of milk ; stir until 
boiling ; add a half teaspoonful of salt, a 
dash of pepper, and pour over the cabbage. 

A Dainty "Way of Cooking Onions 

Closely related to the onion are garlic, 
leeks, shalots, and chives. All being green 



The Cooking of Vegetables 7 1 

vegetables and growing above ground they 
must be cooked in boiling salted water. 
Even strong onions may be made perfectly 
insipid by being boiled in unsalted water. 
In fact, they may become tasteless, and all 
the after-salting cannot produce the distinc- 
tive saline taste and peculiar aroma which 
they possess when boiled in salted water. 
One of the daintiest ways of cooking full- 
grown onions is to bake them. Take off 
the outside dry skin and throw each one 
into cold water as fast as peeled. Put 
them into boiling salted water and simmer 
gently for twenty minutes. Drain, arrange 
them neatly in a baking-dish, sprinkle over 
them a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of 
pepper; cover with fresh boiling water 
and bake for an hour. 

When the onions are tender lift them 
carefully on to a hot dish. Put a table- 
spoonful of butter and one of flour into a 
saucepan, and add the water from the 
baking-pan in which the onions were 
cooked. This should measure a half pint ; 
if it does not, add sufficient milk to make 
up the quantity. Stir the sauce until it 



72 The Cooking of Vegetables 

boils; take it from the fire and add the 
yolks of two eggs that have been beaten, 
with four tablespoonfuls of cream. Pour 
this sauce over the onions and serve. 

Leeks and scullions, when carefully 
cooked, make a dainty vegetable. Cover 
them with boiling water, add a teaspoonf ul 
of salt, boil slowly thirty minutes, drain; 
arrange on toast and cover with a sauce 
made as for cucumbers, or they may be 
simply boiled, cooled, and served with 
French dressing. When small quantities 
of vegetables are left over put them aside 
for next morning's omelet, or for a scallop 
for luncheon. 



MAKING BREAD AND ROLLS 

As bread is used in almost every house- 
hold every day it is wise not only to con- 
sider the method of making, but its food 
value as well. The soft, fine white flour will 
not give as large an amount of muscle, 
bone, or nerv^e-making food as the whole 
wheat flour, which constitutes in itself a 
complete life-sustainer. 

In selecting flour choose that which is 
dark in color and free from bran. The 
best bread flours in the market are of a 
yellowish- white tinge, rather granulated, 
and do not easily pack. They make a 
strong and elastic dough. Though not 
whole wheat flours they are decidedly the 
best of the white brands. After selecting 
the flour the next important thing is to 
have a good, strong, sweet, and pure yeast. 
The compressed cakes are good and con- 



74 MaKiJ^g Bread and Rolls 

venieii^, and i^-^ill do the work much more 
quickly ^.han ten times the amount of 
iiome-maJe or baker's yeast. When set- 
ting bread to i Ise stand your bread-pan in 
another of warm water; cover the two so 
that the moisture will pass over the top 
of the dough H an even temperature of 
aeventy-five deg:rees Fahrenheit. 

The Many Kinds of Bread 

There are tarious kinds of bread: yeast 
bread, bread made with baking powder, 
salt-rising bread, and the quick hot breads 
where eggs are used, beaten or unbeaten, 
to produce the required results. No matter 
which way one makes the bread, sweetness 
and lightness are always the chief con- 
siderations. If milk is used it should be 
scalded, not boiled, and cooled. This is 
to prevent souring. If water, it may be 
boiled and cooled. If milk and water, 
pour the boiling water into the milk. 

Mijdng and Kneading the Dough 

First comes the mixing of the dough. 
If it is whole wheat flour a beatins: is 



Making Bread and Rolls 75 

necessary to make the gluteu elastic, and 
to get as much air as possible into the 
dough. Beating is equally necessary for 
ordinary white flour, but the sponge may 
be made into dough and at once kneaded. 
The kneading, perhaps, is the most import- 
ant part of the bread-making. So far this 
has been accomplished by the hands, but I 
am sure a machine would be less laborious 
and more hygienic. The hands, no matter 
how carefully cleaned, may not always be 
in a condition to handle the family bread. 
The time required for kneading depends 
entirely upon circumstances. It must be 
kneaded long enough for the dough to 
lose its stickiness and become soft and 
elastic. 

The French baker, after his bread has 
reached this condition, begins to use water 
instead of flour for kneading, making the 
bread porous, lighter, and more elastic. 
After this kneading stand the bread aside 
in a warm place to expand. It should 
really double its bulk. Be careful, how- 
ever, that the dough does not become too 
light or it will fall. This falling means the 



76 Making Bread and Rolls 

souring of the dough, and nothing will 
restore its original sweetness. Soda may 
be added to neutralize the acid, but it will 
not bring back the sweetness of the flour. 
This falling is caused by the yeast having 
consumed the nourishment from the flour. 
It has lost its stability, as it were, and the 
bread is spoiled. For this reason I do not 
advise setting the sponge over night. The 
housewife, being in the kitchen during the 
morning, has an opportunity for watching 
the sponge, and with compressed yeast she 
may sponge the bread at seven o'clock, 
knead it as soon as the dough is light, and 
it will be ready for the oven at eleven. 

Moulding the Dough into Loaves 

After the dough is light turn it out care- 
fully on a board and cut it into loaves. A 
quart of liquid will make four ordinary- 
sized loaves or six French loaves. Take 
the dough under your hands and roll it care- 
fully into a loaf the shape of the pan in 
which it is to be. baked. The long, open- 
end sheet-iron pans are best; the second 
best are the small square pans. Cover the 



Making Bread and Rolls 77 

loaves and stand in a warm place until they 
have again doubled in bulk. This will re- 
quire about one hour. 

A word of caution here. If this second 
standing is too long the bread will fall 
when first put into the oven, leaving a 
heavy line near the bottom of the loaf. 

Proper Temperature of the Oven 

The baking is of equal importance. 
There are several ways of testing the oven 
without a thermometer. Throw a little 
flour on the floor of the oven ; if it browns 
quickly without taking fire the heat is 
sufi3cient. Or if you can hold your hand 
in the centre of the oven while you count 
slowly twenty, it is about right. For square 
loaves the temperature should register 360** 
Fahrenheit; for the long French loaves 
400° Fahrenheit. The square loaves should 
be in the oven ten minutes before brown- 
ing; the long loaves should brown almost 
immediately. If the oven is too hot a 
thick crust is produced, forming a non- 
conducting cover to the loaf. This pre- 
vents the heat from penetrating the 



78 Making Bread and Rolls 

interior; we frequently find the burnt loaf 
with an unbaked centre, and this unbaked 
centre is the most injurious of all food. It 
is difficult of digestion, creates fermenta- 
tion, not only destroying itself but other 
food with which it comes in contact in the 
stomach. At the end of the allotted time 
remove the bread from the oven, take it 
from the pans, tip it against a plate or 
bread-board so that the air will circulate 
freely around it. Do not cover. When 
perfectly dry put it into a clean tin bread- 
box, using no wraps whatever. 

Making and Using Yeast 

I DO not believe in home-made yeast, 
but realizing that many housewives are too 
great a distance from the city or town to 
procure the best yeast in good condition I 
would say that an ordinary plain potato 
yeast is the best, though it takes a long 
time to make bread with it. The house- 
wife must set her sponge at night if she 
uses potato yeast, and then give the next 
morning to the finishing. 

Pare four good-sized potatoes, and soak 



Making Bread and Rolls 79 

them in cold water for thirty minutes. Put 
one quart of boiling water into a saucepan, 
grate the potatoes quickly into the boiling 
water, stand over the fire and stir con- 
staotly for five minutes. Take from the 
fire; add half a cup of sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls of salt ; mix and turn into a 
stone jar ; cover with a saucer or plate and 
stand aside until luke-warm ; then add half 
a cup of good yeast or two dry yeast cakes 
that have been dissolved in a half pint of 
warm water, or one compressed yeast 
cake dissolved in two tablespoonfuls of 
warm water. Cover again and stand in a 
warm place for three or four hours, stirring 
down every time it comes to the top of the 
vessel. When the fermentation has ceased 
put the yeast into a jar or large bottle, 
something that may be tightly covered, and 
stand where it will keep cool, but not freeze, 
until wanted. In cold weather it will keep 
at least a month ; in summer, if kept in a 
cool place, two weeks. Save one cupful of 
this yeast to start with next time. When 
making bread use one cupful to each quart 
of liquid. 



8o Making Bread and Rolls 

A Quick Loaf Bread 

Add six teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
and four quarts of whole wheat flour ; sift 
four times. Moisten quickly with cold 
water, using about one and a half quarts. 
It must be moist, yet at the same time 
sufficiently stiff to mould. Knead, and 
mould quickly into four loaves. Brush with 
milk and bake in a moderate oven one hour. 
Cool the same as yeast bread. 

Bread Made with Potato Yeast 

Pour one pint of boiling water into one 
pint of milk. When luke-warm add gradu- 
ally one quart of flour, beating all the while. 
Then stir in one cupful of potato yeast; 
mix well and add sufficient flour to make a 
dough. Take this on a board and knead it 
thoroughly until it loses its stickiness and 
is soft and elastic. Put it into the bread- 
bowl, cover, and stand in a warm place over 
night. Next morning cut it into loaves. 
Then mould; put at once into greased 
bread-pans; cover, and stand in a warm 
place for from one and a half to two hours 



Making Bread and Rolls 8i 

until it has doubled its bulk. Brush with 
water, and bake slowly for three quarters 
of an hour. If the loaves are large they 
must be baked an hour. 

We have from years of training accus- 
tomed our palates to the taste of bread 
made with yeast, the manipulation of which 
is long and laborious. The over-taxed 
country housewife, who is obliged to make 
all the bread for a large family, would be 
quite relieved by the substitution of a quick 
bread. Fermentation produced by the use 
of baking powder is not so difficult to con- 
trol as that produced by yeast, and if the 
bread is properly baked, which is most 
certainly the chief art of bread-making, the 
condition and flavor are not unlike the 
ordinary yeast bread. 

Making Whole Wheat Bread 

Select whole wheat flour, free from out- 
side bran. Pour one pint of boiling water 
into one pint of sweet milk; when luke- 
warm add one compressed yeast cake (one 
ounce) dissolved in two tablespoonfuls of 
warm water, and one teaspoonful of salt. 

6 



82 Making Bread and Rolls 

Mix, and stir in sufiScient whole wheat flour 
to make a batter that will drop from a 
spoon. Beat well, cover, and stand in a 
wann place (seventy-flve degrees Fahren- 
heit) for three hours, or until very light. 
Then stir in sufficient flour to make a soft 
dough. Knead lightly until the greater 
part of the stickiness is lost. Mould it into 
four or six loaves, according to the size of 
your pans ; place in greased pans ; cover, 
and stand aside again in a warm place for 
an hour. Bake in a moderately quick oven 
for thirty-five or forty minutes. Whole 
wheat bread cannot be made stiff like the 
ordinary white bread, it must be handled 
quickly. 

White Bread and Bread Sticks 

PouB one pint of boiling water into one 
pint of milk ; when luke-warm add one tea^ 
spoonful of salt and one ounce compressed 
yeast cake dissolved in a quarter of a cup 
of warm water.. Mix, and stir in sufficient 
flour to make a dough. Turn this on a 
board and knead thoroughly until soft and 
elastic. Put it back in the bowl; cover, 



Making Bread and Rolls 83 

and stand in a warm place (seventy-five 
degrees Fahrenheit) for three hours. Then 
form it into loaves ; put them into greased 
pans, cover again, and stand in a warm place 
one hour. Brush with water, and bake in a 
quick oven one hour if in square loaves, or 
half an hour if in long French pans. 

To make bread sticks, use either the 
whole wheat or white bread. At moulding- 
time take about a tablespoonful of the 
dough and roll it out under your hand in a 
long, round bit the size of your finger and 
the length of your bread-stick pan. Put 
each one down in its place in the pan, stand 
in a warm place for thirty minutes, brush 
them with water, and bake in a quick oven 
about fifteen minutes. 

Persons who are troubled with indiges- 
tion can eat bread sticks when any other 
form of bread would be objectionable. 

The Second Cooking of Bread 

Physicians often order toasted bread for 
invalids. They do not mean, however, a 
thick slice of bread which has been lightly 
toasted first on one side and then on the 



84 Making Bread and Rolls 

other, leaviog a soft indigestible centre, 
but bread toasted from side to side, mak- 
ing mastication absolutely necessary. 

Under this head come, also, pulled bread, 
zwieback, and the toasted rusk for panada. 
Pulled bread is simply bread pulled off in 
little bits, the bits put into a pan lined with 
paper, then into a moderately quick oven, 
and toasted until a golden brown, and crisp 
to the very centre. This bread may be 
made in large quantities, put into ordinary 
muslin bags, kept in a dry place, and re- 
heated at serving time. It will keep for 
two months. Zwieback is made by cutting 
bread into slices and toasting it in the oven 
until thoroughly dry. 

Croutons to Serve vrith. Soup 

Croutons are squares of bread buttered, 
and toasted in the oven, to be served with 
soup, or as a garnish for stew or fricassee. 
Butter the bread before cutting ; cut it into 
dice or squares of two inches, or into little 
blocks of an inch, or into long narrow 
strips. Put them, buttered side up, in a 
baking-pan, and toast in a slow oven until 



Making Bread and Rolls 85 

crisp to the centre. They may be added to 
the soup just at serving time, or may bo 
passed with the soup. 

Making Boston Broivn Bread 
Mix two cups of Yankee rye meal, one 
cup of granulated yellow Indian meal, and 
one cup of whole wheat flour. Add a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and sift. Dissolve a level 
teaspoonful of soda in about two table- 
spoonfuls of warm water ; add it to one and 
a half pints of thick sour milk, or butter- 
milk. Then add to this one cup of molasses. 
When thoroughly blended pour it over the 
dry ingredients and mix thoroughly. Pour 
into a greased two-quart brown-bread mould, 
put on the lid tightly and steam continuously 
for five hours. Lift the lid, allowing the 
bread to cool, and at serving time bake for 
thirty minutes. 

To Make Pop-overs 
Beat two eggs, without separating, until 
thoroughly mixed; add one cup of milk. 
Put one cup of flour into another bowl ; add 
to it gradually the eggs and milk; beat 
until smooth. Strain through an ordinary 



86 Making Bread and Rolls 

gi'avy strainer. Put at once into greased 
hot gem-pans, and bake in a moderately 
quick oven forty-five minutes. If these are 
properly made and properly baked they 
should swell six times their original bulk, 
and may be used for breakfast or luncheon, 
or served with a liquid pudding sauce as a 
dessert. Whole wheat flour, if sifted three 
times, may be substituted for white flour • 
Iron gem-pans insure better results than 
those made of lighter metals. 



TASTEFUL DESSERTS AND 

CAKES 

Desserts should be attractive, but most 
simple in material and construction — a 
finishing, not even suggesting digestion: 
a dainty and delicate omelet souffle, a 
little dish of whipped cream, or a parfait. 
A dessert, like the trimming of a gown, 
should be dainty and in keeping, or the 
whole dinner is certain to be a failure. 

Ice creams, when simply made, are not 
injurious if eaten slowly. If eaten rapidly 
they chill the stomach, and, preventing the 
digestion of the dinner, are apt to cause 
discomfort. The stomach will, however, 
recover itself in a short time, which it will 
not do if a heavy dessert be eaten. 

Ice Cream of Many Sorts 

When making ice cream do not use gela- 
tine, arrowroot, or other thickening sub- 



88 Tasteful Desserts and Cakes 

tances. Good, pure cream, ripe fruit, or 
the best canned fruit in winter, and granu- 
lated sugar, make a perfect ice cream. 
Good ice cream cannot be made without a 
good' freezer — one working easily with a 
side crank and a double revolving dasher. 

Scald half of the cream and dissolve in it 
the sugar. This will prevent the cream from 
churning to butter. When raw cream is fro- 
zen it has a frothy, snowy taste ; the taste 
of the flavoring is not prominent, and it is 
neither smooth nor velvety in appearance. 
Cheaper ice creams are usually made in this 
way, as they double their bulk ; one quart 
of cream making two quarts of ice cream. 

Packing and Freezing the Cream 

After the mixture is prepared, before 
turning it into the freezing 6an, see that the 
latter is in good order. Adjust the dasher, 
fasten on the crank, and give it a turn to 
see that all is right. Remove it for a 
moment, pour in the mixture, and readjust. 
A four-quart freezer will require twenty 
pounds of ice and one quart of coarse rock 
salt. Put a layer of salt in the bottom of 



Tasteful Desserts and Cakes 89 

the tub, then a layer of ice about three 
inches in depth, another layer of salt, 
another of ice, and so on to the top of the 
can. Turn the crank slowly and steadily 
until it begins to require force. If the can 
is properly packed the cream will require 
from fifteen to twenty minutes to freeze. 
Cream frozen too quickly is not smooth. 
The length of time required depends entirely 
upon the packing, not upon the freezer. 
The more salt is used the less time will be 
required for freezing ; the more quickly the 
ice melts the more quickly will the heat be 
drawn from the cream. Water ices require 
more time for freezing than ice creams. 

When the mixture is frozen remove the 
crank, wipe carefully the lid of the can, 
take it off, remove the dasher and clean it. 
Then with a large wooden spatula or mush 
stick scrape the cream from the sides of the 
can and beat it for about five minutes ; 
cover can and repack. 

Making Vanilla Ice Cream 

Put one pint of cream into a double 
boiler. Split a small vanilla bean into 



90 Tasteful Desserts and Cakes 

halves, scrape out the seeds and pulp, and 
mix them with half a pound of sugar ; add 
the sugar to the cream, stir constantly until 
smoking hot ; take from the fire, and when 
cold add another pint of cream ; turn into 
the freezer and freeze as directed. Where 
the vanilla bean cannot be obtained add two 
teaspoonfuls of good extract of vanilla, or 
two of vanilla sugar. The latter may be 
added to the hot cream, the former to the 
cold, just before putting it in the freezer. 

Strawberry and Neapolitan Ice Creams 

Put half a pound of sugar and half a pint 
of cream in a double boiler. Stir until 
smoking hot ; take from the fire and cool. 
Add another half a pound of sugar to a quart 
and a half of strawberries. Mash them 
through a coarse colander and stand aside 
for thirty minutes. When the cream is cool 
add to it a pint of cold cream, turn it into 
the freezer, and freeze. When frozen 
remove the lid, add the strawberries and 
sugar, and freeze again ; beat rapidly at first 
and more slowly toward the end. 

Neapolitan ice creams are frozen in the 



Tasteful Desserts and Cakes 9 1 

same way as other ice creams. They are 
really custards, containing eggs and fre- 
quently other thickening, and are frozen in 
the same manner as fruit ice creams. 

Lemon and other "Water Ices 

Add the grated yellow rind of two lemons 
and one orange, and a pound and a quarter 
of sugar to a quart of water ; stir over the 
fire until the sugar is dissolved and boil five 
minutes ; strain ; when cool add the juice of 
four good-sized lemons and one orange. 
Strain through two thicknesses of cheese- 
cloth, turn into the freezer and freeze. 

This may be changed into ginger ice by 
adding a teaspoonf ul of extract of ginger 
and two ounces of preserved ginger chopped 
very fine, or into mint sherbet or mint water 
ice by adding the leaves from a dozen stalks 
of mint, chopped very, very fine, and rubbed 
to a paste. Add one drop of oil of mint. 

A sherbet differs from water ice in that 
it is beaten constantly while freezing, while 
the water ice is turned occasionally or very 
slowly. The first is light and frothy, and 
the second rather coarse-grained. 



92 Tasteful Desserts and Cakes 

Delicious Caf6 Parfait 

This dessert does not require a freezer. 
The cream may be flavored with chocolate, 
vanilla, or strawberry, the parfait taking 
the name of the flavoring. Use good, thick 
cream, very cold ; add to it half a pound of 
powdered sugar, and a gill of black coffee ; 
mix thoroughly; stand the basin in a pan of 
cracked ice, and with a wire egg-beater beat 
to a froth. This will take about five min- 
utes. Put the mixture into a mould, put on 
the lid, cover the joint with a piece of 
waxed paper ; pack it in coarse salt and ice, 
and stand aside for two hours. Or it may 
be packed in the freezer and served in 
tumblers. 

A Group of Dainty Desserts 

Among the dainty and wholesome desserts 
are Bavarian creams. They are easily made 
and are capable of great variations, — cof- 
fee, chocolate, orange, raspberry, straw- 
berry, blackberry, vanilla, and apple. In 
this group we have also the Jerusalem pud- 
dings and rice jellies, corresponding to the 



Tasteful Desserts and Cakes 93 

various sponges in which well-beaten, eggs 
are used in the place of cream. Bavarian 
creams are particularly welcome after a din- 
ner which has been rich in meat. 

For an omelet souffle separate six eggs, 
measure, and sift three tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar. See that the oven is hot 
and have everything in readiness. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth. 
Beat the yolks of three eggs ; add them to 
the whites; add a grated rind of half a 
lemon, the sugar, and a tablespoonful of 
lemon juice; mix quickly. Heap into a 
baking-dish, dust with powdered sugar, and 
bake in a quick oven for five or eight min- 
utes. Serve hot. and as quickly as possible. 

Csuramel Custards in Cupa 

Melt four tablespoonfuls of sugar until 
a light brown, pour it into six custard cups, 
and shake them quickly so that the caramel 
will line them. Beat three eggs without 
separating ; add to them three tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, and then a cup and a half of 
cream; mix thoroughly; add a teaspoon ful 
of vanilla, and pour the mixture in the 



94 Tasteful Desserts and Cakes 

cups on top of the caramel. Stand them in 
a baking-pan of hot water and bake in the 
oven ten or fifteen minutes, until they are 
set in the centre. Turn out while hot on 
individual dishes, and set aside to cool. 
Serve very cold. 

Two Hot Desserts with Sauce 

Under this heading I will give two of the 
very daintiest of the list. Heavy hot pud- 
dings are exceedingly difficult of digestion, 
and while to some they may be palatable 
they do not finish a dinner in as satisfactory 
a manner as the fluffy or lighter ones. 

Vanilla souffle is made by putting half a 
pint of milk over the fire in a double boiler. 
Moisten three tablespoonfuls of flour with 
a little cold cream ; add to the hot milk and 
cook until it thickens. Separate four eggs ; 
add the yolks to the hot mixture ; take from 
the fire; mix thoroughly, and then stir in 
the well-beaten whites of the eggs. Fill 
this into greased custard cups, stand them 
in a pan of boiling water, and bake in a 
moderately quick oven for fifteen or twenty 
minutes. Serve hot with a liquid pudding 
sauce. 



Tasteful Desserts and Cakes 95 

Indian-meal souffle is made by putting 
one pint of milk in a double boiler. Stir 
into it when hot two-thirds of a cupful of 
white granulated meal. Cook until smooth 
and thick. Take from . the fire ; add a 
tablespoonful of butter and the yolks of 
four eggs. Beat the whites to a stiff froth ; 
stir them in carefully; turn the mixture 
into a baking-dish and bake in a quick 
oven thirty minutes. Serve with a well- 
flavored liquid pudding sauce. 

The Making of Plain and Fancy Cake 

Accuracy in the proportion of ingredi- 
ents is indispensable in cake-making. To 
have perfect success the eggs must be fresh, 
the butter sweet, containing as little salt as 
possible, and the flour fine. Either soft 
winter wheat or regular pastry flour is the 
best for use in cake-making. 

Do not beat the butter, sugar, and eggs in 
a tin basin. Use a granite, iron, or wooden 
bowl and a wooden paddle. Measure 
everything carefully before beginning. 
Powdered sugar may be used for sponge 
cake or lady fingers; granulated for all 

f 



g6 Tasteful Desserts and Cakes 

others. Measure the flour after sifting un- 
less otherwise stated in the receipt. Cakes 
that are made without butter should be 
baked in a quick oven, those containing 
butter in a slow oven. Large cakes should 
be baked slowly at first, and small cakes 
quickly. When a cake rises in the centre 
and cracks open, and remains that way, 
you have either used too much fiour or the 
oven has been too hot at first. A heavy 
streak near the bottom comes from a jar or 
slack baking. 

Some Rules that must be Noted 

When a receipt calls for a teaspoonf ul of 
baking powder it means a rounding spoon- 
ful, not a heaping nor a level one. It is 
better to use baking powder than cream of 
tartar and soda. The baking powder may 
be added to the flour and sifted with it, or 
it may be added to the cake mixture and 
thoroughly mixed before adding the whites 
of the eggs. 

Suet is the best material for greasing the 
cake-pans ; butter the poorest. 

Have the oven ready to receive the cake 



Tasteful Desserts and Cakes 97 

as soon as it is mixed. The oveu may 
wait ten minutes for the cake, but the 
cake can never wait a moment for the 
oven. 

If fruit is used it should be carefully 
picked and washed. Raisins should be 
seeded and floured. Molasses cakes require 
careful watching and a moderate oven, as 
they scorch very easily. / 

Beat the butter to a cream, adding grad- 
ually the sugar, then drop in the yolks of 
the eggs and beat continuously for five min- 
utes; add the milk or water according to 
the rule, then the flour and baking powder ; 
beat vigorously, and then stir in carefully 
the well-beaten whites of the eggs. Turn 
it into the pan and put at once in the oven. 
This rule answers for every sort of cake 
where the eggs are separated. 

The Temperature of the Oven 

If your cake browns immediately when 
put into the oven the oven is too hot. Cool 
as quickly as possible by lifting a lid on the 
upper part of the stove. You may place 
also a piece of asbestos paper on the shelf in 



98 Tasteful Desserts and Cakes 

the oven; this will protect the top of the 
cake. Do not put paper over the cake — 
it will fasten itself to the cake, and prob- 
ably cause it to fall. 

Do not put anything in the oven to bake 
with the cake, or your cake will surely fall. 
In looking at the cake while it is baking, 
open and shut the oven door as quickly and 
quietly as possible. 

To test a cake run a little wooden skewer 
or a broom splint down the centre. If it 
comes out clean, no dough adhering, the 
cake is done. Or hold the cake to your 
ear ; if it ticks loudly put it back in the 
oven, if the ticking is very soft it is suflft- 
ciently baked. 

The proper temperature of the oven may 
be determined by holding your bare hand 
in the hottest portion while you slowly 
count twenty — twenty seconds. If your 
oven bakes quickly in the bottom, line the 
cake-pans with oiled paper. 

When the cake is done turn it out gently 
on a sieve or rack, remove the paper, and 
allow the cake to cool; never handle nor 
cut it while it is hot or warm. 



Tasteful Desserts and Cakes 99 

Making Chocolate Layer Cake 

Dissolve two ounces of chocolate in five 
tablespoonfuls of. boiling water. Cream 
half a cup of butter, adding gradually one 
and a half cups of sugar ; add the yolks «f 
four eggs, beat thoroughly; then add the 
chocolate, half a cup of cream or milk, a 
cup and three-quarters of flour, two round- 
ing teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth; stir them carefully 
into the mixture and it is ready to bake, 
either in a loaf-pan or in three layer-cake 
pans. The layers may be put together 
with boiled icing, flavored with chocolate. 

A Most Delicious Sunshine Cake 

Beat the whites of eleven eggs to a stiff 
froth ; add to them the well-beaten yolks of 
three eggs, then stir in carefully a cup and a 
half of sifted granulated sugar, a teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla, and one cup of flour that has 
been sifted with a teaspoonf ul of cream of 
tartar flve times; add this very carefully 
and mix thoroughly. Turn into an un- 



lOO Tasteful Desserts and Cakes 

greased pan and bake in a moderate oven 
for forty-five minutes. When done turn 
upside down. When cool it will either drop 
out or may be easily removed from the 
pan in which it was baked. 

Without the yolks of the eggs this re- 
ceipt, if followed accurately, will make 
delicious angels' food cake. 



GOOD COFFEE, TEA, COCOA, 
AND CHOCOLATE 

Water is really our only true beverage. 
Forming, as it does, three-quarters of the 
weight of the human body, it is of the next 
importance to the air we breathe. 

Milk is a typical food, not a beverage, 
and should never be used as such. It is 
true that it contains a large amount of 
water, but only sujfficient for its digestion. 

In a very short time the non-water- 
drinker becomes sallow, constipated, and 
uncomfortable. The poison matter that 
- should be dissolved by the free use of 
water, and carried off in the circulation 
and through the excretory organs, is held 
in the system ; the body loses weight, the 
skin becomes dry and rough, losing its 
life and brilliancy. A large quantity of 
this water required by nature is taken in 



I02 Coffee, Tea, Cocoa 

the form of green vegetables and fruits and 
in many so-called dry foods. A healthy 
person should drink at least a quart and a 
half of cool (not iced) water in each twenty- 
four hours — a glass the first thing in the 
morning and the last thing at night, and 
the remaining quantity after or between 
meals. Infants frequently suffer more from 
the lack of cool water than from the lack 
of food. 

Water of Extreme Heat or Cold 

While I recommend water drinking it 
must be remembered that either liquid or 
solid foods, if used very hot or very cold, 
are injurious. Iced water reduces the tem- 
perature of the stomach below the point for 
perfect digestion, and consequently inter- 
feres with the digestion if taken with 
meals. A continuance of this abuse brings 
indigestion, with its train of following dis- 
eases, which are frequently more serious 
than the first trouble. Many dyspeptics 
are given to hot-water drinking, which is, 
perhaps, not quite so bad, but it is diflScult 
to detemiine which of the two should be 



Coffee, Tea, Cocoa loj 

most strongly condemned. Better, then^ 
do without both. When the stomach needs 
stimulating it is much wiser to eat but a 
small quantity of easily-digested food. 
Accept the stomach at its capacity without 
stimulants, and you will be surprised at the 
good results. 

In large cities, where the water supplies^ 
are doubtful, boiling and filtering are a 
necessity. Filter the water first, then boil, 
and at once bottle. Stop the opening with 
a cotton plug to prevent contamination. 
When cool stand these bottles on or near 
the ice, or in a cold place. Do not put ice . 
in the water even at table, or you may add 
by far more poisonous germs than those 
removed by the boiling. Freezing does 
not destroy nor kill them. When there is 
the slightest doubt about the water, boil it. 
Filtering makes the water clear, but does 
not always remove the germs. 

Tea as one of the Favorite Beverages 

Though the Americans are not consid- 
ered a tea-drinking people many thousands> 
of pounds of tea are consumed annually. 



I04 Coffee, Tea, Cocoa 

We must, therefore, study what constitutes 
the better grades, the blending of these 
grades, and the proper methods of making 
the infusion. Tannin, the objectionable 
ingredient of tea, is more thoroughly 
dissolved by boiling. To get the least 
tannin we must, then, avoid boiling the 
tea. 

The machine-made teas are undoubtedly 
more wholesome than the hand-made green- 
colored teas or those dried on copper 
plates. Frequently, expensive teas — those 
sold at from ten to twelve dollars a pound 
— are not so healthful as the cheaper black 
teas sold at a dollar. One may now and 
then pick out a very good medium tea, not 
so fine in flavor, as low as fifty cents a 
pound. The cheaper teas, however, re- 
quire greater skill and care in making. A 
poorly-made infusion will be dark and 
bitter, requiring sugar and cream to make 
it palatable. Tea should be taken clear, 
or with very little sugar. If taken be- 
tween meals it may be taken with sugar 
and cream, but I cannot think of a more 
injurious or pernicious habit than the 



Coffee, Tea, Cocoa 105 

drinking of tea with sugar and cream at 
meal time. If taken with food it pre- 
vents mastication, thus creating stomach 
fermentation. 

Tea too Stimulating to the Nervous System 

Who does not know that a cup of tea 
taken at the close of a hard day's work 
will quickly remove fatigue and make one 
comfortable? This instantaneous relief 
comes, doubtless, from stimulation to the 
nervous system, consequently such decoc- 
tions must be used with care. If the 
nerves are exhausted they certainly must 
not be irritated by stimulation. T am in- 
clined to think that it makes very little 
difference to the system whether this irrita- 
tion comes from tea, coffee, opium, tobacco, 
or alcohol, all substances which do not 
furnish nourishment to the blood, nor give 
health or strength. The ner\^ous depression 
and exhaustion which follows the previous 
excitement is, perhaps, a little greater than 
before taking the stimulant. So care must 
be taken not to dissipate with these so- 
called milder beverages, or our constitutions 



io6 Coffee, Tea, Cocoa 

will be wrecked. The "tea substitutes*' 
furnish a warm drink, and would not be so 
injurious if they were not saturated with 
sugar and milk, a mixture very prone to 
fermentation. 

• 

The Proper Way to Make Tea 

To make tea properly first scald the pot, 
drain and put into it while hot a level tea- 
spoonful of tea to each pint of water. 
Pour over the water at the first boil ; cover 
for five minutes, stir, and use at once. The 
old rule in making tea was to allow one tea- 
spoonful of tea for each person and one for 
the pot, — too strong for our modem teas. 
Tea should not, under any circumstances, 
be made in a metal teapot. 

Russian tea is simply a well-made tea 
served with lemon and sugar. The differ- 
ent flavorings of the tea come from the 
odor or scent given to them by the manu- 
facturer. For instance, orange Pekoe is 
flavored with orange flowers, the orange 
and the tea flavor nicely blended. In 
some countries a little cinnamon bark is 
thrown into the tea-caddy. 



Coffee, Tea, Cocoa 107 

English Breakfast and Five O' Clock Tea 

Scald the teapot, and put into it while 
hot four teaspoonfuls of English breakfast 
tea. Pour over the tea one quart of boil* 
ing water, cover the pot and put it under 
the tea-cozy for five minutes. Serve with 
cream and sugar. 

To make five o'clock tea, scald the tea- 
pot; put into it while hot two level tea- 
spoonfuls of orange Pekoe ; pour over this 
one quart of freshly-boiled water, to which 
you have added a grain of bicarbonate of 
soda; cover the pot and put it under the 
cozy for five minutes ; stir the tea, and add 
ten drops of vanilla. It may then be 
served with sugar and lemon. 

Selecting and Roasting Cofifee 

Coffee is capable of doing quite as much 
harm as tea; the only drawback in this 
respect is its expense. The Americans, as 
a class, prefer pure coffee, while coffee- 
drinking nations use at least one-fifth 
chicory. This addition smooths down the 
flavor and gives richness unattainable in 



io8 Coffee, Tea, Cocoa 

any other way. The best coffee is made 
by mixing three-fifths Java, one-fifth 
Mocha, and one-fifth chicory. It must be 
evenly roasted. One or two charred beans 
will destroy the delicate flavor of a gallon 
of coffee. To roast coffee without having 
an apparatus mix the berries, put them into 
a baking-pan, then into a quick oven, allow- 
ing the door to remain open for a few min- 
utes until the coffee loses a portion of its 
moisture. Then close the door, watch care- 
fully, tossing and stirring with a wooden 
spoon at least every minute. When each 
grain is nicely browned, and while hot, stir 
in quickly the slightly-beaten white of one 
egg — that is, if the coffee is to be used for 
boiling; otherwise do not use the egg. 

The Selection of a Brand of Coffee 

Mocha is known by its small, roundish 
grain, which is a sort of bluish green. It 
has an agreeable odor and flavor, and takes 
precedence over all other coffees. The 
Java, a large, flat, yellow grain, is highly 
esteemed in this country, and most people 
buy for the best blending two-thirds Java 



Coffee, Tea, Cocoa 109 

and one-third so-called Mocha. The Bra- 
zilian coffees are exceedingly good, and 
are frequently sold for the above coffees. 
Of course, the green berry improves by 
age. It ripens considerably in the mat, 
losing a portion of the bitter, and acquiring 
an agreeable flavor. It is wise, then, for 
those who can, to buy a mat; the longer 
kept the better it becomes. Coffee is 
much better, also, if roasted daily. If you 
buy it roasted, procure only a small quan- 
tity, enough to last for a week, and keep 
closely covered; grind just before using. 

Making Coffee in Large Quantities 

When making coffee for entertainments 
allow one pound of finely-ground coffee, 
one-fifth of which is chicory, and one gallon 
and a half of water to each thirty persons. 
Where coffee-pots cannot be secured put 
the ground coffee into cheesecloth bags, 
allowing room for swelling. Divide the 
pound into four portions. Put these bags 
into a large boiler with the given propor- 
tion of cold water. Bring quickly to boiling 
point; boil a moment and remove the bags. 



no Coffee, Tea, Cocoa 

•Coffee thus made may be kept hot for hours 
without injuring its flavor. 

The Making and Serving of Coffee 

The most important point in making 
good coffee is to use the water at the first 
appearance of boiling. If it boils but a 
few minutes it parts with its gases, becomes 
flat and hard, and will make but an imper- 
fect infusion. Avoid, also, water that has 
been boiled and put aside on the stove, and 
then reboiled at coffee-making time. See 
that the tea-kettle from which you take 
your coffee water is thoroughly washed 
each morning, filled with fresh cold water 
-and brought quickly to nearly the boiling 
point. Put the coffee and chicory in the 
upper portion of pot, allowing one heaping 
tablespoonful of finely-ground coffee and a 
teaspoonful of chicory to each half pint of 
water. Pour over it quickly the water, put 
on the lid so that the aroma may not escape, 
and as soon as the water drains through the 
biggin fill it again, and so continue until you 
have the desired quantity. Serve immedi- 
^ately from the same pot. This coffee must 



Coffee, Tea, Cocoa 1 1 1 

not be on the stove unless at the back part, 
where it cannot boil. 

Serving coffee is half the battle. In 
winter have the cups heated, fill them half 
full with scalded milk, and pour in the 
freshly-made coffee. Do not add cream if 
you v^lue your health. 

Many of the cereal coffee substitutes 
make admirable breakfast foods, and if 
taken with an equal quantity of scalded 
milk, and without other food, give sufficient 
nourishment for the morning's work. 

Old-Fashioned Boiled Coffee 

For those who do, and always will, boil 
their coffee, I hesitatingly insert a receipt, 
with the wish that they may try the first 
method, then I am sure they will never use 
the second. Put four heaping tablespoon- 
fuls of finely-ground coffee into any sort of 
a common pot. Put the white of one egg 
into a bowl, wash the shell and add it also ; 
pour over half a pint of cold water, beat 
lightly, and put a third of this into the pot 
with the coffee. Put the remaining quantity 
of egg aside to use upon other occasions. 



112 Coffee, Tea, Cocoa 

Add sufficient cold water to thoroughly 
moisten the coffee; mix, pour over the 
proper measurement of boiling water. 
Cover the pot, stand over a brisk fire, 
bring quickly to boiling point ; lift the pot, 
put it back over the fire until it again boils ; 
add half a cup of cold water and stand it 
aside to settle. Pour this from the grounds 
into another pot that has been previously 
heated with boiling water. 

Making Chocolate and Cocoa 

While chocolate is a heavy liquid food, 
it, being served in cups, is frequently 
classed among the beverages. It contains 
an active principle (theobromin) very like 
the thein of tea and the cqffein of coffee. 
Chocolate, like tea and coffee, is spoiled by 
boiling, and is better made from water than 
milk. The beans are roasted and ground, 
much the same as coffee, the consumer 
buying it in the ground and moulded con- 
dition. To make chocolate, put four ounces 
of chocolate into a double boiler. When 
melted add one quart of boiling water; 
beat until smooth. Serve with an equal 



Coffee, Tea, Cocoa iij 

quantity of scalded milk, with whipped 
cream on top. 

Cocoa, containing less fatty matter than 
chocolate, makes a much better breakfast 
food for children. But better still is the 
warm drink made by boiling the cocoa 
shells in water. Put a half pint of these 
shells in a double boiler with one quart of 
water; cover, and cook thirty minutes; 
then add a pint of milk. Heat, strain, and 
serve. This food not requiring mastica- 
tion, may without injury be swallowed 
from the cup. An excellent infusion may 
also be made from the cocoa nibs, and it, 
like that from the shells, is free from fat — 
an advantage where digestion is weak. 

To make cocoa, moisten four tablespoon- 
f uls of cocoa with a little cold water ; pour 
over it one quart of boiling water, stirring 
aU the while. When it reaches the boiling 
point take from the fire, and add four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Pour it backward 
and forward from one pitcher to another 
until light. Serve at once with a little hot 
milk and whipped cream. 



8 



EGGS IN EVERY FORM 

Eggs, like milk, contain in proper pro- 
portion all the elements needed to support 
life. Being highly concentrated, however, 
they lack the bulk necessary to keep the 
excretory organs in perfect condition. 
Serve with them, then, such food as bread, 
rice, or cereals, but do not serve eggs in 
any way at the same meal with beef, 
mutton, or fowl. Pork, such as bacon, 
may in winter be served with eggs. 

While one pound of eggs is equal in 
nourishment to one pound of beef, the lat- 
ter would be borne for a longer time, and 
would in the end be a much better food. 
The mineral matter of the egg is small in 
quantity but rich in quality, and the albu- 
men is in a form most easily digested. We 
must bear in mind, however, that the egg 
albumen coagulates at a lower temperature 



Eggs in Every Form 115 

than that in meat, which teaches us at once 
that to be easily digested, eggs must be 
lightly cooked. A hard-boiled egg, one in 
which the white is rendered hard, may be 
digested by a man laboring in the open air, 
but it is unfit for food for the man who 
works in an office or shop, or for the person 
whose digestion is weak, or for children of 
any age. 

Utilizing the White and the Tolk 

Where eggs seem to be the only conven- 
ient thing for a noonday lunch for a school 
child the hard-boiled yolk only should be 
used. Separate the egg carefully without 
breaking the yolk, drop it into boiling 
water, and keep at boiling point. for fif- 
teen minutes, then roll the yolk in a piece 
of waxed paper and it is ready for the 
lunch-basket. By way of variety the yolk 
may be pressed through a sieve on to a 
slice of bread and butter, making an egg 
sandwich. 

The whites thus saved in an uncooked 
condition may be used for light breads, or 
to help out with a simple dessert. When 



ii6 Eggs in Every Form 

separating eggs where the whites only are 
used, drop the yolk at once into a tum- 
bler of cold water, otherwise you will 
lose it. 

The little membrane which holds or sur- 
rounds the yolk hardens quickly on expo- 
sure to the air ; the yolk, if dropped in a 
-cup or saucer, dries quickly and is rendered 
useless. The water keeps the little mem- 
brane soft, and the yolk may be used even 
for salad dressing twenty-four or thirty-six 
hours after breaking. 

How to Determine the Freshness of Eggs 

To ascertain the freshness of an egg, 
without breaking, hold it before a strong 
light and look directly through the shell. 
If the yolk appears round, and the white 
surrounding it clear, the chances are that 
the egg is fresh. Or you may drop it into 
wat^r ; if the egg sinks quickly and remains 
at the bottom it is in all probability fresh, 
but if it stands on end it is doubtful, and 
quite bad if it floats. The shell of a fresh 
egg looks dull, while that of a stale one is 
glossy. 



Eggs in Every Form 117 

It is impossible in some sections of the 
country to get perfectly fresh eggs dur- 
ing the winter season. To guard against 
high prices, in summer time, when they are 
cheap, pack them in lime-water and they 
will keep in good condition for three 
months. Pour one gallon of boiling water 
over a pound of lime; when settled and 
cold pour it carefully over the eggs which 
you have packed, small ends down, in a 
stone jar, and stand in a cool, dark place. 
Eggs may also be packed in salt ; anything 
that will close the pores of the shell and 
prevent evaporation will preserve eggs. 

"When Eggs are not Digestible 

Egg albumen coagulates at about 130° 
Fahrenheit, and is rendered insoluble at 
170° Fahrenheit. From this fact we learn 
that a low temperature must be employed 
to render the eggs easy of digestion. Any 
method allowing the white to be thoroughly 
whipped before cooking renders it still more 
easy of digestion . The apparently harmless 
poached egg is frequently to blame for a 
relapse after typhoid. Carefully as it may 



1 1 8 Eggs in Every Form 

be cooked there is still an outside or edge 
portion tough and hard, which taxes the 
weak digestive organs beyond their powers 
of endurance. 

The Moat Simple Method of Cooking Eggs 

Eggs should not be boiled at all. Allow 
four eggs to each quart of boiling water. 
Put the water in a kettle first, then carefully 
with a spoon drop in the eggs, cover the 
saucepan and keep it where the water will 
remain at 180° Fahrenheit for five minutes. 
The whites will be slightly coagulated and 
in a creamy condition ; the yolks cooking at 
a lower temperature will be slightly con- 
gealed. If the water boils the whites will 
be hardened and rendered indigestible. If 
the quantity of water is lessened, or the 
number of eggs increased, a longer time 
must be allowed, or the water kept at a 
little higher temperature, say 185° Fahren- 
heit, but the former proportions are much 
better. To eat an egg, crack the shell in 
the centre, turn the contents into an egg or 
china cup, season it lightly with salt, and 
mix it so that the white and yolk will be 



Eggs in Every Form 119 

thoroughly intermingled. While it may 
seem more dainty to eat an egg from the 
sheltit certainly cannot be so easily digested 
as when all the parts of the egg have been 
well mixed in a cup. 

Poached and Shirred Eggs 

New-laid eggs only should be used for 
poaching. The white of the egg is held in 
a thin membrane, outside of which there is 
a watery substance containing a little albu- 
men. In two or three days this membrane 
will become very tender, frequently ruptur- 
ing as soon as you drop it into the hot water. 
The yolk of the egg then stands out promi- 
nently, and the white spreads over the 
bottom of the pan so that you cannot keep 
the egg at all in shape. The beauty of a 
poached egg is the yolk almost covered in 
this thin film, the white sufficiently hardened 
to form a sort of veil for the yolk. Fill 
a saucepan with boiling water, break the 
eggs, one at a time, into a saucer; draw the 
pan where the water will not boil and slip 
the eggs down into it. Break another, and 
another, until the bottom of the pan is 



I20 Eggs in Every Form 

covered. Then draw the pan over a moder- 
ate fire, but still where the water cannot 
boil, and sort of baste carefully the tops of 
the yolks until they are a bluish white color. 
Have ready your platter covered with neatly- 
toasted squares of bread, take each egg up 
on an egg slice, trim off the ragged edges 
and slide it carefully on to the toast. Dust 
lightly with salt and pepper and send 
immediately to the table. 

Shirred eggs are made by covering the 
bottom of a shirring cup with -about two 
tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs ; break an 
egg on top of this and stand the cups in a 
baking-pan, then into a quick oven for 
about three minutes, or until the whites are 
of a creamy consistency. Serve at once in 
the cups in which they were cooked. 

Egg Croquettes and Egg Fondue 

The eggs for croquettes should be boiled 
for about ten minutes, and the whites and 
yolks pressed together through a potato 
press, or chopped very, very fine. B'or six 
croquettes allow six eggs, half a pint of 
milk, one tablespoonful of butter, two 



Eggs in Every Form 121 

tablespoonfuls of flour, a tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley, ten drops of onion 
juice, a level teaspoonful of salt, and a salt- 
spoonful of pepper. Put the milk over the 
fire, rub the butter and flour together; add 
it to the milk, and cook until you have a 
smooth paste ; add all the seasoning to the 
chopped eggs, then mix them with the thick 
cream sauce and turn out to cool. This 
will take at least three hours. Form into 
cylinders, dip in egg and then in bread- 
crumbs, and fry in smoking-hot fat. Serve 
with plain cream or tomato sauce. To give 
variety add half a can of chopped mush- 
rooms. If fresh mushrooms, they may be 
baked for fifteen minutes and then chopped 
fine. The croquettes may be served with 
mushroom sauce. 

Egg fondue is made by putting six eggs 
into a bowl, and beating them lightly with 
a fork ; add four tablespoonfuls of finely- 
chopped cheese, a quarter of a teaspoonful 
of salt, and a dash of cayenne pepper. Put 
a tablespoonful of butter into a saucepan, 
tarn in the mixture, and stir constantly 
until the eggs are smooth and jelly-like. 



122 Eggs in Every Form 

Serve at once on squares of buttered toast, 
on a hot dish garnished with parsley. Egg 
fondue makes a very acceptable addition to 
the luncheon table. 

Scrambled Eggs 

Break four eggs into a bowl with four 
tablespoonfuls of cream, four tablespoon- 
fuls of water or stock, and a teaspoonful of 
butter; beat for a few minutes until thor- 
oughly mixed, turn into a saucepan, and stir 
over the fire until the eggs are of a jelly- 
like consistency. Serve at once on slices 
of buttered toast on a hot platter. 

Poached Eggs with Tomato Sauce 

Where eggs must be served in place of 
meat for a meal like dinner it is well to use 
an acid vegetable of some kind as a sauce. 
Put half a can of strained tomatoes in a 
saucepan ; add a slice of onion, a bay leaf, 
and a sprig of celery. Cover, simmer 
gently for five minutes, strain again; add 
two tablespoonfuls of butter and two table- 
spoonfuls of flour that you have rubbed to 
a smooth paste. Stir constantly until boil- 



Eggs in Every Form 123 

ing ; add a teaspoonf ul of salt, a quarter of 
a teaspoonful of pepper, and stand aside 
until wanted. Cover a platter with squares 
of bread nicely toasted. Then poach the 
eggs, slip them on top of the toast, pour 
around them the tomato sauce, and sprinkle 
with finely-chopped parsley. 

Beauregard Eggs on Toast 

An ordinary potato press may be used 
for this receipt for both whites and yolks. 
Put five eggs into luke-warm water, bring 
to boiling point, and keep them at this point 
for fifteen minutes. Throw them at once 
into cold water to prevent discoloring of the 
yolks ; remove the shell, separate the whites 
from the yolks, press the whites through a 
sieve or chop them very fine, then the yolks, 
keeping them separate. Have ready five 
squares of bread nicely toasted and placed 
on a hot platter. Put one teaspoonful of 
butter and one of flour in a saucepan ; 
mix, and add half a pint of milk; stir 
until boiling; add a level teaspoonful of 
salt, a dash of pepper, and the whites 
of the eggs. When hot heap neatly on 



124 Eggs in Every Form 

the toast, sprinkle over the yolks of the 
eggs, dust lightly with salt and pepper, and 
stand in a hot oven for about two minutes ; 
sprinkle with a little chopped parsley and 
serve at once. 

This dish if property made may be given 
to children over six years of age. For an 
invalid, however, or a younger child, omit 
the whites of the eggs, using the sauce with 
the hard-boiled yolks sprinkled over. 

The Making and Cooking of an Omelet 

Of all ordinary things I presume the 
omelet is least commonly well made. It 
should be served immediately. Better wait 
two minutes for the omelet than have the 
omelet wait one minute for you. See that 
the omelet-pan is thoroughly clean and free 
from moisture. If possible, keep a sheet- 
iron pan for this purpose and do not use it 
for any other. Before putting it over the 
fire throw into it a teaspoonful of salt, and 
with a piece of brown paper rub the pan 
thoroughly.. Turn out the salt and dust out 
the pan. Place in a frying-pan one table- 
spoonful of good butter and stand on the 



Eggs in Every Form 125 

back part of the stove where it will melt 
without browning. Break four eggs into a 
bowl, and with a beater give them twelve 
vigorous beats ; add four tablespoonf uls of 
cold or warm water, a dash of pepper, and 
a piece of butter about the size of a hick- 
ory-nut. Select a spatula or very limber 
knife ; take this with the eggs and the salt 
to the fire, draw the pan over the fire, and 
when the butter begins to crackle turn in 
the eggs. Shake vigorously so that the 
omelet will sort of slide from side to side. 
In a moment the egg nearest the heat will 
be congealed ; with the limber knife lift the 
crust into another part of the pan, allowing 
the soft portion to run underneath. Sprin- 
kle over a teaspoonful of salt, and shake 
the pan again. With the limber knife lift 
again, and do this until the omelet is light. 

Dishing and Garnishing the Omelet 

Take the omelet from the fire, fold it 
from the handle side of the pan over to the 
outer side, then take the handle in your left 
hand, putting your hand underneath with 
the thumb on the top of the handle. With 



126 Eggs in Every Form 

your n'ght hand take your spatula and hold 
the omelet in the pan, give it a quick turn 
on to a hot platter, draw out your spatula ; * 
as it is now underneath the omelet, garnish 
with parsley and send at once to the table. 
This we call a plain omelet, and from it all 
the other omelets bearing the names of 
their flavorings come, such as ham omelet, 
chicken omelet, cheese omelet, potato ome- 
let, Spanish omelet, tomato omelet, omelet 
served with tomato sauce, or omelet with 
peas. The sweet omelets are made in the 
same way. Omelet souffle should be baked 
in the oven. 

A Delicious Oyster Omelet 

For this purchase twenty-five nice fat 
oysters, then put them into a saucepan, 
stand over a moderate fire, and cook slowly 
until the gills are thoroughly curled ; drain, 
saving the liquor. Put a tablespoonful of 
butter and one of flour in a saucepan; 
measure the liquor; add sufficient milk to 
make a half pint. Stir until boiling ; add 
a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, 
and the oysters. Stand over hot water 



Eggs in Every Form 127 

while you make a plain omelet, using six 
eggs with the proper proportion of water 
and butter. Turn the omelet on to a good- 
sized hot meat-dish and pour upon it the 
oyster sauce and serve at once. 



THE MAKING OF SALADS 

The beauty and wholesomeness of the 
salad should commend it to every American 
housekeeper. I do not refer to those 
highly-seasoned combinations of hard-boiled 
eggs and mustard, but to dainty dinner or 
luncheon salads, made with a dressing of 
olive oil, a few drops of lemon juice, and a 
light seasoning of salt, garlic, and pepper. 

The salts necessary for the well-being of 
our blood are bountifully given in these 
green vegetables ; then, too, it is a pleas- 
ant way of taking fatty food. All machin- 
ery must be well oiled to prevent friction, 
and the wonderful human engine is not an 
exception to the rule. Look carefully to it 
that you take sufficient fatty food. 

Eating Salad Every Day in the Tear 

The Americans do not use enough oil to 
keep them in perfect health. While butter 
is served in some families three times a 



The Making of Salads 129^ 

day, and is better than no fat, its composi- 
tion is rather against it as compared to a 
sweet vegetable oil. Fats well digested are 
the salvation of consumptives or those suffer- 
ing from any form of tuberculosis. For 
these reasons a simple salad composed of 
any green vegetable and a French dressing, 
should be seen on every well-regulated table: 
three hundred and sixty-five times a year.. 
Those who live out of town can obtain from? 
the fields sorrel, long docks, dandelions, andi 
lamb's quarters for the cost of picking. 

Where desserts are not used, and I wish 
for health's sake they might be abolished, 
a salad with a bit of cheese and bread, or 
wafer, or cracker, with a small cup of cof- 
fee, may close the meal. Where a des- 
sert is used the salad, cheese, and wafer 
are served just before it, to prick up the 
appetite that it may enjoy more fully the 
sweet. At a large dinner the salad is- 
usually served with the game course. 

Vegetables that may be used for Salads 

Any green vegetable may be boiled and' 
served with French dressing as a salad- 

9 



I JO The Making of Salads 

TThen having string beans for dinner, boil 
An extra quantity, that a few may be put 
Aside in a cold place for the next day's 
«alad. String beans should be cut length- 
wise, not crosswise, before cooking. Cold 
boiled cauliflower, asparagus, carefully 
•cooked, spinach, leeks, well boiled, may 
all take their place in salads. In the 
fall and winter, lettuce, chicory, endive, 
^scarole, and celery serve the purpose. 
The heavy mayonnaise dressing is best for 
■chicken, lobster, fish, and meat salads, — 
those usually served at luncheons or sup- 
pers ; it may also be used with some vege- 
tables, as celery and tomatoes. 

The Favorite French Dressing 

To make French dressing, put a half 
teaspoonf ul of salt and a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of white pepper into a bowl ; add 
gradually six tablespoonfuls of olive oil. 
Rub until the salt is dissolved, and then 
add one tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon 
juice. Beat well for a moment and it is 
ready to use. It is much better if used at 
once. Cream dressing is made by heating 



The Making of Salads 131 

a gill of good cream. Moisten a table- 
spoonful of cornstarch with a little cold 
milk; add it to the hot cream, cook a 
moment, then stir in the well-beaten yolks 
of two eggs. Take from the fire; add a 
half teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, 
and a tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon 
juice. This is palatable and much more 
economical than a mayonnaise dressing. 

Making Potato Salad 

Boil in their jackets four medium-sized 
potatoes. While they are boiling make a 
French dressing and slice into it one good- 
sized onion ; as soon as the potatoes are 
done, drain, salt,'and dry them. Remove 
the skins and cut the potatoes while hot 
into the dressing ; toss them carefully until 
every piece is well covered. Put the 
mixture on a cold dish and stand aside 
until serving hour. Then garnish the dish 
thickly with parsley; sprinkle over the 
dish a tablespoonful of finely-chopped 
parsley or celery tops; a small pickled 
beet may be chopped fine and placed 
diagonally across the dish. Sardines or 



332 The Making of Salads 

pickled herring may also be used as a gar- 
nish and to give variety, and one may also 
«tir into the dressing a teaspoonful of 
Anchovy paste. 

An Excellent Mayonnaise Dressing 

Put the uncooked yolks of two eggs into 
Si clean, cold soup-dish, then add a quarter 
of a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of 
•cayenne pepper ; work these well together, 
and then add, drop by drop, half a pint 
or more of olive oil. You must stir rapidly 
:and steadily while adding the oil. After 
«.dding one gill of oil, alternate occasionally 
with a few drops of lemon juice or vinegar. 
The more oil you use the thicker the dress- 
ing. If too thick add a half teaspoonful or 
more of vinegar, until the proper consist- 
•ency. More or less oil may be added 
according to the quantity of dressing de- 
sired. With care a quart of oil may be 
stirred into the yolks of two eggs, alternat- 
ing with a few drops of lemon juice or 
vinegar after adding the first gill of oil. 
It is easier, however, to start with three 
yolks when making a quart of dressing. 



The Making of Salads 133 

In case the dressing should curdle, t.e., the 
egg and oil become separated, which makes 
the dressing liquid, begin anew at once 
with the yolks of two eggs in another plate, 
snd after stirring them well, add, by tea- 
spoonfuls, the curdled mayonnaise, stirring 
all the while, and finish by adding more oil 
as directed. 

In warm weather it will take only half 
the time if you put the dish in which you 
make the mayonnaise on a piece of ice or 
in a pan of ice water; the oil and eggs 
should also be cold. This dressing, if 
-covered closely in a jar, will keep in a cool 
place for a week. The yolk of one egg 
and six tablespoonfuls of oil will make 
sufficient dressing for four persons. 

How to make Potato Dressing 

A VERY palatable and economical dress- 
ing, suitable to serve with either tomatoes 
or potatoes, may be made from a mixture 
of egg and mashed potato, with a little 
butter or oil. As a rule, melted butter 
dressings have the reputation of being the 
most indigestible and objectionable of all 



134 The Making of Salads 

salad dressings, — more so, ol course, Trhere 
they are seasoned with mustard. This 
condiment may be admirable for external 
uses, but is certainly too severe to come in 
contact with the delicate mucous lining of 
the stomach. We may have had cold 
boiled potatoes for Sunday dinner. We 
could use one of these mashed as foundation 
for our potato dressing ; cut those remain- 
ing into blocks, and for that day's supper 
mix them with the dressing, and serve on 
lettuce leaves. For the dressing, mash one 
potato fine, then rub it with a limber knife 
until perfectly smooth. Now add gradually 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, work in the 
uncooked yolks of two eggs, season with a 
half teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of 
white or red pepper, and then add gradu- 
ally a tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon 
juice. At the last give a thorough rubbing 
until the dressing has the consistency of a 
good mayonnaise. 

Vegetables in Aspic 

Scrape and cut into thin slices ona car- 
rot; pare and cut into slices one turnip; 



The Making of Salads 135 

cut these slices into fancy shapes; throw 
them into boiling water (unsalted), and 
cook carefully for thirty minutes. In the 
meantime cook one cup of green peas ; drain 
them, and mix all together. Cover half a 
box of gelatine with half a cup of cold 
water ; soak it for half an hour. Put into 
a saucepan one slice 6f onion, one bay leaf, 
half a teaspoonf ul of celery seed, a few of the 
bits of carrot that have been left in the cut- 
ting, and a pint of cold water. Bring slowly 
to boiling point and add a half teaspoon ful 
of beef extract; then the gelatine, the juice 
of half a lemon, a level teaspoonf ul of salt, 
and a dash of cayenne ; stir for a moment 
and strain through two thicknesses of cheese- 
cloth. Fill small individual moulds with the 
mixed cooked vegetables ; pour over suffi- 
cient of the jelly to fill the moulds. Stand 
them aside to harden. When ready to serve 
turn them out on to crisp lettuce leaves, and 
serve with a bowl of mayonnaise. Left- 
over vegetables may also be used in the 
same way. When cold they may be cut into 
any fancied shapes, and less time will be 
taken in their preparation. The addition of 



136 The Making of Salads 

beets would undoubtedly give a very attrac- 
tive bit of color to the mixture. 

Delicious Cauliflower Salad 

Take a head of cauliflower and boil in a 
piece of fine cheesecloth. Remove from the 
cloth, drain, and sprinkle over it two table- 
spoonfuls of lemon juice or vinegar, and 
stand aside to cool. At serving time break 
the head apart into flowerets ; arrange them 
neatly on a dish, sprinkle over a little 
chopped parsley or the wild sorrel; cover 
with French dressing and serve. 

Russian Salad with Sauce Tartare 

Cut into small dice-shaped bits, two oun- 
ces of cooked cold beef, the same of cooked 
cold tongue or cooked chicken, and, if you 
like, about one ounce of cold boiled ham. 
Now put into the bottom of your salad-bowl 
a little of the beef, and place on top three 
boned sardines, then a little of the tongue, 
then the chicken, and again half a dozen 
sardines; sprinkle over the top the ham; 
garnish around the dish and in the centre 
with crisp lettuce leaves ; cover the entire • 



The Making of Salads 137 

top with sauce tartare, and you will have a 
delicious Russian salad. 

Lobster, Shrimp, and Tomato Salads 

Put one large lobster into a kettle of hot 
water, add a tablespoonful of salt, and boil 
slowly three-quarters of an hour ; when cold 
remove the meat from the shell, rejecting 
the stomach and intestines; cut the meat 
into cubes of one inch; season it with a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, a dash of 
cayenne, and a half teaspoonful of salt; 
mix with it half a cup of mayonnaise dress- 
ing, and serve at once on lettuce leaves. 

Shrimp salad is made by mixing canned 
or fresh shrimps with a gill of mayonnaise, 
and serving on lettuce leaves. 

Scald, peel, and cool small sound well- 
shaped tomatoes. Dish them neatly on 
lettuce leaves, and put over each a tea- 
spoonful of mayonnaise dressing. Keep in 
a cold place until it is time to serve. 

Making Sweetbread Salad 

Wash and soak in cold water for one 
hour a pair of calf s sweetbreads. Throw 



1^8 The Making of Salads 

them into boiling water, and simmer gently 
for thirty minutes. Throw them again into 
cold water until perfectly cold. Pick apart 
carefully, rejecting the membrane. Sort of 
roll or shake them on a napkin until all the 
water has been absorbed. Blanch a quar- 
ter of a pound of shelled English walnuts, 
removing carefully the brown skin; throw 
them into the water in which the sweet- 
breads were boiled ; add one slice of onion, 
a bay leaf, and cook slowly for twenty min- 
utes; drain, and stand aside to cool. At 
serving time put two very thin slices of 
onion in the centre of a platter, cover over 
with crisp lettuce leaves; mix the sweet- 
breads and nuts together, sprinkle over a 
half teaspoonf ul of salt, a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, and a tablespoonf ul of 
lemon juice ; add half a cup of mayonnaise 
dressing ; mix, turn on to the lettuce leaves 
and serve at once. 

An Appetizing Chicken Salad 

For an extra good chicken salad, a 
young rooster, not over one year old, may 
be used. Singe and draw it carefully ; 



The Making of Salads 139 

throw it into a kettle of boiling water and 
boil rapidly for five minutes, then push the 
kettle on the back part of the stove where 
the water will remain at 180° Fahrenheit 
until the chicken is tender. About thirty 
minutes after the chicken has been placed 
on the back of the stove add the seasoning, 
which should consist of a tablespoonful of 
salt, a teaspoonful of whole pepper, a small 
onion with twelve cloves stuck in it, and 
two bay leaves. When it is sufficiently 
done allow it to become cold, and then 
remove the skin, and take the meat from 
the bones in large pieces. Cut it first with 
the grain of the meat, then crosswise in 
cubes of half an inch in size, and allow two- 
thirds as much celery cut into similar-sized 
pieces. At serving time mix the chicken 
and celery together, and to each quart allow 
a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, and sprinkle over a 
tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar. Mix 
thoroughly and add half a pint of mayon- 
naise dressing, and arrange attractively 
upon lettuce leaves. 



140 The Making of Salads^ 

Fruit Salads "with Dressing 

Fruits, such as white grapes, apples, or 
oranges, may be mixed with mayonnaise 
dressing and served on lettuce leaves. 
Those agreeable to each other in flavor may 
be blended, such as banana and orange, 
white grape and orange, apple and celery. 
These fruit salads are largely used at ladies' 
luncheons. The Waldorf salad, which is 
a highly-seasoned mixture of apples and 
celery, covered with a mayonnaise dressing 
into which you have stirred an equal quan- 
tity of stiffly-whipped cream, may be served 
at a dinner. 

Shaddocks may be served on lettuce 
leaves covered with French dressing as a 
dinner salad. As the inside lining of the 
fruit is bitter, cut it into halves crosswise, 
and with a spoon take out the pulp and the 
seeds ; spread it over the lettuce leaves and 
pour over a French dressing. A person 
who cannot take vinegar, which is frequently 
irritating to the lining of the stomach, can 
eat fruit salads without injury. Salads 
mad3 sour with vinegar are not wholesome, 



The Making of Salads 141 

yet this mistake is ofteD made. To please 
the palates of sach as do not care for the 
mayonnaise the fruits may be judiciously 
blended or placed separately upon lettuce 
leaves. Sliced bananas may be lightly 
dusted with salt, shaddocks with sugar, or 
oranges may be simply mingled with slices 
of bananas and served icy cold on lettuce 
leaves. 



MRS. RORER»S DOMESTIC 
LESSONS 



WHAT INDIGESTION REALLY 

MEANS 

How TO Avoid It, and What to Eat 
WHEN You Have It 

The person who attempts to interfere 
with the diet of an individual should first 
understand the principles upon which a 
normal diet is regulated. Each meal should 
consist of the essential elements of nutri- 
tion, or the person may eat a large quantity 
of food without any feeling of satisfaction. 
It is a well-known fact that two meals well 
proportioned, so that each element of the 
body has j'eceived its proper amount of 
nourishment, will sustain a person much 
longer than double the amount of food, 
illy-proportioned, illy-selected, and served 
in three iiTegular meals. 

10 



146 What Indigestion 

The Necessity for Thorough Mastication 

Not to have indigestion then, we must 
first see that the combinations of food are 
suited to our manner of living, then simply 
cooked and not made complex in serving. 
We must thoroughly masticate all starchy 
foods, that the digestive secretions may 
penetrate to the very centre of every 
particle, within a certain time. 

See that all foods are cut across the grain, 
that the gastric secretions may act promptly, 
and eat only the proper amount for neces- 
sary nutrition ; avoid excessive sweet mix- 
tures, fried foods, complicated pastries, 
acids, such as pickles or foods covered 
with vinegar, excessively hot or very cold 
foods, or ice water, which is the most 
objectionable of liquids. A frequent cause 
of indigestion is the mingling of too great 
a variety of food in the mouth. Take one 
food, masticate and swallow it; then an- 
other. Do not take a mouthful of toast 
and then a swallow of tea, unless you 
wish to be a still further sufferer from 
indigestion. 



Really Means 147 

"What CoiiBtitutes "Waste and Repair 

Such food is passed on into the stomach 
undigested and lost to the economy, not 
only irritating the entire digestive viscera, 
but producing an abnormal quantity of 
waste, which leads to an excessive dis- 
tention of the stomach and abdominal 
viscera. 

The indoor laborer, such as the editor 
and the bookkeeper, and all persons sitting 
at desks in illy-ventilated and overheated 
rooms, should have their food divided 
almost half and half. 

They need a goodly quantity of repair 
food — their work is trying — but less of 
the heat and force foods. Rice and olive 
oil are the best forms of heat food, as they 
are so easily and quickly appropriated. 
Outdoor laborers, or those who have bodily 
exercise and a greater amount of fresh air, 
should proportion their allowance three- 
fifths carbonaceous, or heat-giving foods, 
to two-fifths albuminoids, or repair foods- 
— both ratios to be changed to suit season 
and climate and length of day's work. 



148 What Indigestion 

Things That are Easy of Digestion 

Be careful of the bulk of starchy foods. 
More than is needed for immediate use will 
be stored in the system as fat, which in- 
creases size without a corresponding in- 
crease of strength. Starches, to be easily 
digested, should be thoroughly cooked and 
well masticated, while the albuminoids 
should be simply and lightly cooked, the 
mastication of which is only necessary to 
the ease of swallowing and convenience 
of the stomach digestion. Plain boiled 
or baked potatoes are easy of digestion. 
Butter taken at the stomach temperature 
is an admirable fat, but if the butter 
is heated and the potatoes fried in it, 
both are rendered indigestible and useless 
as food. Beef is easy of digestion if care- 
fully broiled, roasted, or boiled, but if fried 
until the fibre is rendered hard it is useless 
and irritating to the stomach. Chickens, 
milk, butter, flour, — all good if properly 
eaten, — when made up together in a mix- 
ture called croquettes and fried, are simply 
worse than wasted. Cream is a valuable 



Really Means 149 

fat, as well as butter. The proper cooking, 
and proper combinations and cooking, there- 
fore, are as important as the first selection 
of foods. 

For a Simple, Palatable Breakfast 

The average person may take for break- 
fast a sub-acid fruit, such as a raw, baked, 
steamed, or stewed apple, a ripe peach, a 
bunch of grapes, or a very soft pear, fol- 
lowed by a bowl of well-cooked cereal with 
a little milk, a slice of whole wheat bread, 
^nd, if he has been accustomed to it, a cup 
of clear coffee, one-half heated milk. No 
other food is actually necessary — in fact, 
one might be better off with even a lighter 
meal. The heavy breakfast, quickly and 
carelessly eaten by the average family, 
brings about such diseases as come to the 
over-eaters — rheumatism, gout, uric acid 
conditions, and Bright's disease. 

At the Noonday and Evening Meals 

The noonday meal should be light, unless 
two hours' rest can be taken. It may con- 
sist of a cream soup, two or three slices of 



150 What Indigestion 

whole wheat bread and butter, any little 
light minced meat, and again fruit. This 
meal may be closed with a rice pudding, 
a cup custard, or some simple dessert made 
principally from eggs and milk, rice and 
milk, or whipped cream. 

The night meal, after the day's work is 
over, should for its first course have a per- 
fectly clear soup, either plain consomm6 or 
a bouillon made entirely from vegetable 
matter, or a clear, light tomato soup ; the 
idea is to warm and stimulate the stomach 
without giving nourishment. Follow thi& 
with a red meat, either beef or mutton, 
broiled, roasted, or boiled; one starchy 
vegetable, as rice, macaroni, potato, or, in 
the winter, boiled chestnuts; one green 
vegetable, as carefully-cooked cabbage, 
cauliflower, spinach, asparagus, green peas 
or beans, stewed cucumbers or squash, ac- 
cording to the season of the year; then a 
light dinner salad composed of either celery, 
lettuce, cress, endive, or chicory, or evea 
shredded raw cabbage dressed with a little 
oil and a few drops of lemon juice, with a 
bit of cheese and a bread stick, or a wafer 



Really Means 151 

or a piece of brown bread, followed by some 
very light dessert similar to those mentioned 
for the noonday meal. 

The term "dyspepsia" does not quite 
cover one form of the disease, but is used 
for both gastric or stomach derangements 
and intestinal indigestion, the latter by far 
the most common. Foods suited to one of 
these conditions would be poison to the 
other. Under gastric dyspepsia we may 
include all acute inflammatory conditions 
of the stomach. 

The common symptoms of the purely 
gastric trouble are eructations of hot, sour 
fluids, belching of acid gases, discomfort 
and pain immediately after eating. As pain- 
ful and annoying as dyspepsia is, it may 
be easily and quickly cured if the sufferer 
will only be careful in his daily diet. 

A Food Schedule for Dyspeptics 

Abstain for a given time from all solid 
foods. Live for at least one week on milk, 
one-quarter barley water, or koumiss. 

A schedule such as follows should be 
used in acute gastric dyspepsia: A glass. 



152 What Indigestion 

of cool, not iced, water the first thing in the 
morning. A cup of warm, not hot, water 
half an hour before breakfast. For break- 
fast, three ounces of milk mixed with one 
ounce of barley water. This schedule 
should be followed every three hours 
throughout the entire day for one week, 
taking the last glass of milk half an hour 
before bedtime. Koumiss may be substi- 
tuted for the milk or used alternately. 

When a Lean Beef Diet is Best 

After prolonged ill-feeding the deranged 
gastric conditions are apt to become chronic : 
intestinal and hepatic disorders are likely 
to ensue, and there are two forms instead 
of one form of dyspepsia to be overcome. 
Under such circumstances, after the week 
of milk diet, a lean beef diet is best. 

Select good beef from the round, put it 
twice through an ordinary meat-chopper, 
make it into small cakes, and carefully broil. 
Use a little salt at first, and gradually learn 
to do entirely without it. 

Begin with one pound of beef a day, di- 
viding it into two meals. Or you may take 



Really Means 153 

milk for your breakfast, half a pound of 
beef for your noonday meal, and then begin 
at four o'clock, taking the milk every two 
hours until bedtime. Or you may take the 
meat alone, di'V'iding it into three meals. 
Increase the quantity slowly to the end of 
the week. If you have used meat alone you 
are now consuming three pounds daily, and 
increasing it to four. It has been satisfac- 
torily proven that this diet of chopped 
meat, with all surplus fat trimmed off, 
yields all that can be obtained from a 
mixed diet containing the elements — pro- 
teids, fats, and carbohydrates. The fat 
mingled throughout the lean portions of 
the meat is in sufficient quantity to support 
heat and force. 

Different Flavorings That May be Used 

To vary this diet use different flavorings. 
Celery, either green or the seeds ; six 
blanched almonds, a tablespoonful of pinon 
nuts, may be added and chopped with the 
meat. Now and then the chopper may be 
rubbed with garlic, which will give a deli- 
cate flavor; just a suspicion of powdered 



154 What Indigestion 

asaf etida — not more than will adhere to a 
pin head — is excellent 

With this meat diet, which must bring a 
cure if continued for three or five months, 
or sometimes a year, at least two quarts of 
water daily should be taken — half a pint 
the first thing in the morning and the last 
at night, a cupful of warm water before 
each meal, and the remaining quantity 
divided and taken between meals. 

Come back gradually to a normal diet, 
adding first to your meat diet a little rice, a 
bit of pulled bread, a little green vegetable, 
such as tender, well-boiled celery or very 
young peas pressed through a sieve. 

The Causes of Intestinal Indigestion 

Intestinal indigestion comes, as a rule, 
from continued over-starchy and sugar 
feeding, and to people who eat large quan- 
tities of white bread, drinking at the same 
time one or two cups of tea or coffee with 
sugar or milk, or those who eat with other 
bulky food large bowls of illy cooked cere- 
als and potatoes. Pastries, pies, cakes, 
preserves, puddings, and such artificial, in- 



Really Means 155 

digestible food-stuffs, and white bread, are 
first to be condemned — not so much on 
account of unwise combinations as from 
the fact that they are eaten after a hearty 
meal, crowding and overloading the diges- 
tive tract. This form of dyspepsia is most 
common and most troublesome. In fact, 
many diseases with which we must contend 
in middle and later life have their origin at 
this point. If for any reason the secre- 
tions become dull, abnormal fermentation 
takes place, instating gases form, the 
abdomen becomes distended, the intestines 
lose their vigor and elasticity, and the 
patient goes on from bad to worse until the 
whole system becomes deranged. 

Use Water Freely and Frequently 

SfiRious mental and nervous conditions 
also have their origin here. If the bile is 
insufficient and of poor quality, constipa- 
tion follows closely. The skin, in turn, 
becomes dry, dark, and loses its activity. 
We must now give special attention to the 
outside of the body as well as the inside. 
The skin must be bathed every morning 



156 What Indigestion 

with tepid water, followed by a brisk rub. 
This is equally as important as correct diet. 
A good rule to remember is to use water 
freely inside and out, following the same 
directions for taking water as are given for 
gastric indigestion. Cut down at once the 
quantity of food taken, especially that re- 
quiring intestinal digestion, giving this por- 
tion of the digestive tract as much rest as 
possible, that it may regain its lost strength. 
For two weeks live on a diet that would be 
almost entirely digested in the stomach, 
such as koumiss, milk with a little barley 
water, cream of celery soup, plum por- 
ridge, cream of spinach soup, beef juice, 
white of egg shaken with milk. Then add 
a little scraped beef broiled, or a broiled 
bird, and so continue until you feel re- 
lieved of all unpleasant symptoms, adding 
a little boiled rice, then a bit of well-pulled 
bread. 

When Tou Have Been Quite Cured 

Finally, when you have quite recovered, 
you may slowly return to a normal diet, 
avoiding all sweets, acids, rich dishes and 



Really Means 



157 



those containing large quantities of starch. 
Arrange your bills-of-fare as follows : 



Breakfast 

Broiled Whitefish Bit of Lettuce 

Pulled Bread Hygienic Coffee 



Luncheon 

Broiled Chops Boiled Rice 

Whole Wheat Bread (well baked) 

Junket 



Dinner 

Clear Soup 

Roasted Beef Baked Potato 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing 

Bread Stick A bit of Roquefort 



Breakfast 

Mush Bread Broiled Chicken 

Hygienic Coffee 



Luncheon 
Cream of Celery Soup Pulled Bread 



158 What Indigestion 



Dinner 

Clear Soup 
Broiled Chopped Meat Cake, Sauce Soubise 

Boiled Rice 
Lettuce Salad Bit of Roquefort 



'What a Dyspeptic May Eat and Drink 
Bt the following list, telling what a dys- 
peptic may eat, a variety of menus may be 
arranged that cannot fail to be beneficial to 
the sufferer : — 



Beef, broiled, boiled, 
baked, or roasted. 

Mutton, broiled, boiled, 
baked, or roasted. 

Chicken, broiled, boiled, 
baked, or roasted. 

Birds. 

Venison. 

White-fleshed fish, broiled 
or boiled. 

Eggs, soft-boiled, steam- 
ed, poached ; yolks hard- 
boiled, pressed through 
a sieve on milk toast. 

Sweetbreads creamed or 
broiled. 

Olive oil. 

Butter. 



Prunes, dates, or figs 
stewed without sugar. 

Lettuce. 

Celery. 

Cream soups, as spinach, 
celery, or lettuce. 

Raw cabbage. 

Carefully cooked cauli- 
flower. 

Roquefort or other ripe 
cheese in small quanti- 
ties. 

The early spring mush, 
rooms. 

New turnips cooked be- 
low boiling point in 
uusalted water, served 
with cream sauce. 



Really Means 



159 



Whole wheat bread, well 

baked. 
Bread sticks ; mush bread. 
Boiled rice. 
Bice pudding. 
Cup custard ; junket. 
Soft custards. 
Whipped cream. 
Koumiss. 



Stewed cucumbers. 

Stewed squash. 

Baked bananas, cream, 

horseradish sauce. 
Verj young peas pressed 

through a sieve. 
Cress, chicory, endive. 
Hygienic coffee. 
Very weak tea. 



Green vegetables, such as lettuce, spin- 
ach, and onions, are supposed to be great 
cleansers to the system. But a person 
whose digestive viscera is irritated cannot 
eat these without discomfort, unless they 
are carefully made into cream soups. 



What a Dyspeptic Should not Eat or 

Drink 



Boiled coffee. 
Boiled tea. 
All sweets. 
Fried foods. 
White bread. 
Crackers. 
Cakes. 
Acid fruits. 
Pork in all forms. 
Veal. 



Beets. 

Corn, green. 
Potatoes. 
Pickles. •• 
Spiced foods. 
Gelatine desserts. 
Red or dark fish. 
Salt foods. 
All the Crustacea. 
Clams. 



i6o What Indigestion Means 

Turkey. Oysters, raw or fried. 

Duck. Iced water. 

Cooked cabbage. Acid drinks. 

Flavored soda water. 

The Use of Oil, Butter, and Cream 

Oil is always required for lubricating, 
and the human machine is not an excep- 
tion. Fats, however, must in cases of in- 
testinal indigestion be used sparingly and 
carefully. Ten drops of pure olive oil once 
a day may be taken either after the noon or 
night meal. It may be put on a piece of 
bread and thoroughly masticated. Well- 
made butter is an exceedingly good form of 
fat, but should be used without salt. A 
tablespoonful of cream taken slowly, held 
in the mouth and then swallowed, will also 
answer the purpose. Bear in mind that 
a small quantity pf any one of these fre- 
quently administered is much more easily 
borne than the whole quantity at a single 
dose. 



THE RIGHT FOOD FOR 
DIFFERENT MEN 

'' What's one man's poison is another's- 
meat " refers, without doubt, to the heading: 
under which I write. Had Nature intended 
one sort of food to supply all the wants of 
man, one sort only would have been given. 
Men under different conditions, in different 
climates, and those following different occu- 
pations, must certainly have different foods.. 
The wise stock-keeper does not feed alike 
his race and draft horses, or his setter and 
pug. A display of this same intelligence 
among human beings would in another 
generation show marked improvement in 
the race. 

The soluble, light diet, so well suited to 
the quiet life of old age, would not suffice 
for 'the activity of youth. Brain workers- 
indoors require less heat food than out-of- 

11 



1 62 The Right Food for 

door workers. The commercial, the lit- 
erary, the athletic, the clerical, and the 
active life each require a special modifi- 
cation of diet. 

The Indoor and the Outdoor "Work 

The delicate machinery of the sensitive 
person cannot bear the rough, heavy food 
suitable for the one of coarser nature. 
The man in the open air finds pork and 
beans suited to his taste, and, with a slice 
of brown-bread and a cup of coffee to com- 
plete his breakfast, can do hard manual 
labor with perfect ease until the noon hour, 
while the clerk or bookkeeper, stooping 
over his desk in a close, illy ventilated room, 
digests with difficulty his breakfast of two 
soft-boiled eggs and toast. If he takes a' 
heavier breakfast he finds in a year or 
two indigestion, chronic constipation, and 
liver trouble are his closest friends. If 
the man out-of-doors took the two soft- 
boiled eggs with a bit of bread he would 
be completely exhausted before the morn- 
ing's work was half finished. From this 
alone it is easy to understand that there 



Different Men 163 

natarally is correct diet for differently 
occupied men. 

"Work 'Which Requires a Stooping Posture 

The gardener, who is constantly stoop- 
ing, finds it impossible to take soup or 
liquid food until the close of his day's work. 
He is constantly having water-brash. His 
stomach, by the position which he must of 
necessity assume while at work, is not in its 
best working attitude. A light, concen- 
trated breakfast of beef carefully broiled, 
or an egg with a bit of toast, no liquid ; a 
luncheon composed of whole wheat bread, 
and perhaps cheese, or a slice of mutton or 
beef, would give him quite sufficient nour- 
ishment for the day's work. At night he 
may, with satisfaction, eat and digest a 
hearty dinner. 

The tailor, as well as the dressmaker, 
sitting in a stooping position, finds it diffi- 
cult to digest even a light breakfast or 
luncheon. They, too, should have their 
heavy meal after the day's work is over. 
Shoemakers, like tailors and dressmakers, 
contract a peculiar sort of dyspepsia, due 



164 The Right Food for 

no doubt to the pressure upon the stomach. 
It would be the work of a philanthropist to 
insist upon loose dress and an upright posi- 
tion in all manufactories where trades of 
this kind are carried on. Constipation, so 
universal among this class of people, may 
be removed by the free use of water, plenty 
of butter on the bread, and a salad at least 
once a day. Tea should always be strictly 
avoided. 

The Necessity for Plenty of Water 

The foundryman, standing before the 
open furnace, would be much better in 
health if he drank at least forty ounces of 
water a day and cut from his diet all alco- 
holic and malt beverages. He must keep 
up a rapid evaporation from the skin to 
carry off the excessive heat. His food 
should be composed of small amounts of 
easily digested starchy foods, such as rice, 
green vegetables in goodly quantity, fruits, 
and lean meats. He, like the gardener and 
tailor, should have his heavy meal at night, 
and should take time before eating this 
meal to bathe, rub, and cool his body. 



Different Men 165 

The lead- worker should eat a good break- 
fast, a light luncheon at noon, and a good 
dinner. A daily luncheon of half a pint of 
milk with one gill of cream taken slowly is 
to be highly recommended. Persons who 
work in lead works should be careful to 
wash their hands and shake their clothing 
before eating. 

For Men "Who Lead Sedentary Lives 

Unoccupied people, living largely for 
pleasure without the need of doing any 
real work, should eat light, easily digested 
food, but as a rule directly the opposite 
method is followed ; consequently among 
this class sufferers from apoplexy, paraly- 
sis, Bright's disease, rheumatism, and gout 
are to be found. 

In temperate climates the clerk, the office 
man, the salesman, people living the larger 
portion of the time indoors, should look 
largely to the vegetable world for their 
source of food. Their nitrogenous foods 
should be of an easily digested sort. While 
I have no sympathy with any form of diet 
which tends to restrict the food of man, I 



1 66 The Right Food for 

woald still have him remember that animal 
food in over-abundance will produce just 
the line of diseases so common among the 
American and English people, — the world's 
beef -eaters, — uric acid conditions, Bright's 
disease, rheumatism, and gout. For some 
unknown reason it seems firmly fixed in 
the minds of many that meat is the only 
thing that gives strength^ and it is exceed- 
ingly difiScult to make people believe the 
contrary. 

The Proper Diet for an Editor 

The over-taxed editor will find that three 
or four meals, taken at the proper time and 
composed of the proper food, will make his 
work much easier and his life more worth 
the living. He may be called at ten or 
eleven in the morning, and, after his bath, 
drink a cup or two of very weak clear tea. 
At one o'clock he may partake of a light 
breakfast composed of fruit, a bowl of some 
well-cooked cereal with cream, and a piece 
or two of pulled bread. During the after- 
noon the larger portion of his work may be 
accomplished, and for his dinner at seven 



Different Men 167 

o'clock a menu consisting of soup, beef or 
mutton carefully cooked, never fried, a well- 
baked potato, or boiled rice, and lettuce, 
cress, spinach, or chicory salad with French 
dressing, a wafer, and a bit of cheese will 
suffice. If his work continues far into the 
night, he may at one o'clock a. m. have a 
glass of koumiss, a glass of hot milk, a glass 
of buttermilk, a small saucer of junket; 
or a small bit of chocolate placed in the 
mouth to melt and be slowly swallowed. 
Heavy food of any kind should be avoided 
at bedtime. 

Plumbers' and Iron-'Workers' Diets 

Plumbers, who inhale more or less of the 
fumes arising from the process of heating 
lead and other materials, may retain their 
good health, or even improve poor health, , 
by a careful diet composed largely of well- 
cooked cereals with cream, whole wheat 
bread and butter, carefully cooked green 
vegetables, and a small amount of nitroge- 
nous food. 

The iron- workers, especially those where 
filing and planing are going on, would find 



1 68 The Right Food for 

it greatly to their advantage to cut from 
their diet all alcoholic beverages and malt 
liquors that so largely disarrange the con- 
dition of the kidneys, heart, and liver, 
and certainly interfere with the proper 
action of the lungs. It is said by many 
observers that the black deposits in the 
lungs of these men are rarely found among 
the temperate. 

Miners, who labor in the dark and are 
confined below ground in places deficient in 
oxygen, suffer largely from indigestion, and 
are frequently anaemic. These, of all people, 
should avoid alcohol in any form, and should 
take just suflScient food during mining hours 
to keep them from being hungry. An abun- 
dant, wholesome breakfast, a light luncheon 
in the mine at noon, a full dinner at six 
or half -past six, when they leave the mine 
and are thoroughly clean, should be their 
motto. 

When Travelling Eat Light Meals 

Persons travelling, either for business or 
pleasure, are exceedingly unwise to take 
large meals. They should eat just enough 



Different Men ' 169 

to satisfy hunger. The commercial traveller 
is rushing in and out from place to place, 
trying his best to create a good impression 
upon the man to whom he wishes to sell. 
He is more or less excited, and is frequently 
in a state of nervousness until the sale is 
made, all of which tends to retard digestion. 
For him I would advise a very light break- 
fast, a light noonday meal, and at five 
o'clock, if possible, the main meal of the 
day. This last meal should be composed 
of an easily digested, mixed diet. 

Rules for the Constant Traveller 

Sightseers, who are travelling from place 
to place in a hurried manner, should take 
just suflScient food to satisfy the appetite 
not more than three times a day; twice 
would be better. Before starting off in the 
morning, those who are accustomed to coffee 
may take half a pint mixed with half a pint 
of milk, and nothing else, or half a pint of 
cereal coffee and half a pint of milk, or a 
cup of cocoa made from water to which has 
been added a little cream after th6 cocoa is 
placed in the cup. At noon, a bowl of 



lyo The Right Food for 

cream soup with some crackers or zwieback^ 
nothing more. At night, after the recrea- 
tion is over, take half an hour for rest, and 
then have a comfortably good dinner. Avoid 
all fried food, ham, veal, sausages, cold 
tongue and entries, rich pastry, cakes, or 
desserts that are over-sweet. 

Where travelling must continue for sev- 
eral days and nights in succession, and 
exercise is light, food should be in accord- 
ance. Sea and car sickness come from 
disobedience to these rules. While on 
shipboard drink sparingly of water and 
other liquids; they are apt to disagree. 

The diarrhoea which so often comes to 
people while travelling is not caused by the 
water, as they suppose, but more frequently 
from the unaccustomed diet and over-eating. 
They have nothing else to think about, and 
it is eat, eat, from morning until night. 
Then, if unpleasant results occur, they 
trace it to the water at once, begin to take 
medicine, and upset their stomachs and di- 
gestive organs, making themselves objects 
of pity from the beginning to the end of 
their journey. 



Different Men 171 



The Value of Food ConaiBts in Proper 

Cooking 

Red meats, broiled, boiled, baked, or 
roasted, are admirable food for those who 
need them. Fried or over-cooked they are 
almost worthless. Bread well made and 
baked may be the " staff of life ; " badly 
made and baked it is the usual source of 
" sour stomach." The true value of a dish 
depends more upon the proper choice, com- 
binations, and cookery of the ingredients, 
than upon the quantity of solid, nutritious 
matters found by a laboratory analysis of 
the uncooked materials. It is to be hoped 
that as time passes our women may be suflS- 
ciently impressed by the growing lack of 
intelligence in our kitchens to study cookery 
as a science ; then they may be able, with- 
out the assistance of drugs, to digest the 
God-given foods. 

We all know, or should, at least, that an 
egg lightly cooked -will digest in half the 
time that it will take to digest one hard- 
boiled. In winter, in cold climates, the car- 
bonaceous foods should be increased; in 



1 7i The Right Food for 



tn^it^ ^oid $t>^exi v^f^t&bkis, jmd jl less pio> 
\v^rl4t^ iteo of IJesh foods. 



A i>icriiii 



^FiisiwAvrA^sT 






OofJw 



I 4 .1 "voRr-rtK 



1 M. 






».ivt«t^ V^ttt>^ 



li dif.c liict 






Different Men 173 



A Day in Summer — For an Outdoor 

Laborer 



Breakfast 


Fruit Toast 


Coffee 


or 


Coffee and Rolls 



Luncheon 

Baked Tomatoes Peas 

Cheese Soaffl^ 





Dinner 
Tomato Soup 




Broiled Steak Stewed Cabbage 




Peas 






Lettuce Salad 




Toast 




Cheese 


• 


Melon 





THE BEST FOODS FOR STOUT 
AND THIN WOMEN 

The reduction of corpulency, while it 
does not necessarily involve a great change 
of diet, does involve will-power and patience 
on the part of the patient. An excess of 
flesh is to be looked upon as one of the most 
objectionable forms of disease, and must be 
treated as such. Some persons are more 
Inclined to the accumulation of flesh than 
others. Whether this is, as such persons 
usually think, due to heredity or to follow- 
ing the same mode of life, using largely the 
same diet as their ancestors, is an open 
question. I have frequently seen very thin 
and very stout persons in the same family, 
apparently eating the same food and living 
under the same circumstances. Upon care- 
ful investigation, however, I have invariably 
found that they select different foods from 



The Best Foods 175 

the same table, — one, perhaps, eating large 
quantities of bread, the other very little; 
one using sweets, the other preferring juicy 
meats. 

Obesity May Be Called a Disease 

Corpulency is naturally the result of 
excess in partaking of fat-producing foods 
and a disinclination to exercise. It has 
been proven by Molscott, in his careful 
experiments, that in a mixed diet the car- 
bonaceous foods are usually broken down 
and digested first, leaving the more complex 
nitrogeneous foods in a partly digested con- 
dition. If, however, the person has good 
digestive secretions, all will be digested; 
but the amount in excess of the proportion 
needed for wear and tear in the body will 
be stored as fat. This explains why per- 
sons who are trying to reduce obesity by 
cutting from their diet all the so-called fat- 
making foods, while indulging freely in 
meats and kindred materials, do not attain 
the desired result. The quantity of food, it 
would seem, then, is of far greater impor- 
tance than the kind. 



176 The Best Foods for 

Obesity Once established will increase 
most rapidly, unless a careful treatment be 
followed. Each ounce of food more than is 
required to keep up the functions of the 
body, stored in the form of fat, rapidly 
increases the weight of the body, and in a 
few months may be reckoned by pounds. 

Cut 0£f the Food Supply Gradually 

The modern dieticians feel that any rigid 
change in the diet will upset the digestive 
viscera, producing conditions in the system 
not desirable. The first thing, then, to do 
from a rational standpoint, is to cut off, a 
little at a time, from the usual amount of 
food, and change slowly to a more nitrog- 
enous diet. Increase the exercise, both 
mental and physical, in order to consume a 
portion of the fat already stored in the body, 
allowing the loss in weight to come from this 
direction rather than from a shortage of nec- 
essary foods. This stored fat corresponds 
to the coal in the tender of the engine ; it 
may be burned until consumed. The over- 
fat woman is more uncomfortable than the 
over-fat man. She, in thinking to hide a 



Stout and Thin Women 177 

portion of this fat, draws in her clothing, 
pushing the fat from one place to another, 
pressing upon the heart, reducing the circu- 
lation until she really has more serious 
troubles to contend with than obesity. Her 
face becomes purple, .the end of her nose 
especially red, and she is really pitiful to 
behold. All this may be easily avoided if 
she has sufficient will-force to now and 
then go hungry. Gymnastic exercises, 
without apparatus, should be taken both 
morning and night ; the tepid bath, a tho- 
rough rub, and plenty of outdoor exercise. 
The following rules might be framed and 
hung in sight: — 

1st. Rednce fat by improving the general health. 
Exercise the muscalar tissues of the body rather 
than change to a radical diet. 

2d. Strengthen the mnscular tissues by increasing 
the nitrogenous foods. 

3d. Above all, keep the blood in good normal 
condition by cutting from the diet all sweets, severe 
acids, bulk foods, wines, and alcoholic and malt 
liquors. 

4th. Use sufficient pure, cool water to give free 
action to the skin and kidneys. 

5th. Eat sufficient food, but only twice a day. 
Do not nibble between meals. 

12 



lyS The Best Foods for 

The Disease Creeps on Slowly 

The mode of life and dietary of the 
average well-to-do American, especially as 
he nears middle age, undoabtedly tends to 
foster an accumulation of fat. This fat 
may not destroy life directly, but it cer- 
tainly does indirectly, by preventing the 
individual from taking sufficient exercise 
to keep up a healthy action of the heart 
and circulation of the blood. The skin 
frequently loses its brilliancy and life and 
becomes reddened by the congestion of 
small veins, especially over the face. The 
disease of obesity — for it certainly is a 
disease — creeps on so slowly that the indi- 
vidual becomes thoroughly wedded to the 
form of life producing it before he realizes 
his true condition. The brain-power, like 
the rest of the body, is a little slow and 
dilatory in action ; the will-power necessary 
to reduce this mass of flesh is frequently 
lacking. Such a person should every morn- 
ing take a tepid or cold bath, as seems best 
suited to her individual case, and a thorough 
rubbing. Dress, go to the table, and drink 



Stout and Thin Women 179 

half a pint of comfortably hot water and 
milk. Do not eat a moathful of food. The 
morning hours should be devoted to some 
physical exercise, walking or working ; do 
not, however, remain indoors. 

Take Tour First Meal at Noon 

At twelve o'clock sharp the first meal of 
the day should be taken : Two well-broiled 
chops, or sweetbreads, or eggs in any form, 
one slice of well-baked whole wheat bread, 
buttered and thoroughly masticated, and 
one green vegetable. Eat enough to satisfy 
hunger, but of the more nitrogenous com- 
pound. For dessert a cup custard, a little 
uncooked fruit, such as grapes, ripe peaches, 
baked apple, and once in a while the pulp 
of an orange. 

For the night meal have a clear soup, a 
red meat, — in fact, any meat except pork 
and veal, — a succulent vegetable like spin- 
ach, cooked celery, a little lettuce, new peas, 
string beans, a little raw cabbage or well- 
cooked cauliflower. All meat must be 
broiled, roasted, or boiled — not fried. A 
half pound of meat may be eaten at this 



i8o The Best Foods for 

meal. A piece of well-toasted whole wheat 
bread, without butter, a bit of well-ripened 
cheese, and a cup of clear coffee may form 
the dessert. 

The success of this treatment lies in 
the fact of doing without breakfast. The 
patient may eat sufficient to satisfy hunger, 
but no more ; in a few days she will find 
that the so-called hunger is not felt at the 
pit of the stomach, and in less than a week 
she will enjoy the two meals a day, the first 
at noon and the last at five or six o'clock, 
much better than she ever dnjoyed her three 
meals. 

She should not lie down in the afternoon, 
nor should she become over-tired, but a 
walk rather than a ride should be taken. 
Rest by change of occupation rather than 
idleness. Water may be taken between 
meals — about thirty-five ounces per day. 
Doctor Pavey wisely says, " In taking appe- 
tite as a guide in regulating the supply of 
food, do not confound it with a desire to 
gratify the palate." When food is not 
eaten too quickly, and the diet simple, a 
timely warning is afforded by the sense of 



Stout and Thin Women 1 8 1 

satisfaction experienced, and not only does 
a disinclination arise, bat the stomach fre- 
quently refuses food if this amount be far 
exceeded. Obesity usually comes to those 
who gratify their palate and desires, regard- 
less of consequences. If a woman inclined 
to obesity would live on forty ounces of 
moist food a day, one-third nitrogenous and 
two- thirds carbonaceous, taking a goodly 
amount of physical exercise, there would 
not be much danger of her becoming un- 
comfortably corpulent. 

The Best Diet for the Obese 

The best meats for the obese are beef, 
mutton, venison, and game, and the best 
fish are soles, flounder, cod, rock, halibut, 
and white-fish. The Crustacea and the mol- 
lusks are not desirable. The best vegetables 
are the cabbage tribe, such as cauliflower, 
broccoli, and Savoy, the ordinary cabbage, 
kale, and spinach, lettuce, endive, chicory, 
celery, carefully cooked turnips without 
sauce, artichokes, squash, cucumbers cooked, 
cress, very young green peas, and string 
beans; the best fruits are grapes, ripe 



1 82 The Best Foods for 

peaches, raspberries, blackberries, strained 
and made into mush, and an occasional 
baked apple, and the best nuts are almonds 
and a very few pignolias or pine nuts. Nut 
cheese, made into a sandwich with whole 
wheat bread, makes a desirable luncheon. 
Dry toast made from whole wheat bread 
may form the basis of many delightful 
sandwiches for the noonday meal. Where 
the habit is to have a midday dinner and 
supper in the evening, these sandwiches, 
with a glass of half milk and half barley 
water, may form the supper. A glass of 
cool water may be taken on retiring. 

Coffee Saves the Waste of Tissue 

Chopped beef mixed with onion, chopped 
mutton mixed with capers, chopped chicken 
mixed with chopped lettuce, hard-boiled egg 
grated and mixed with cheese, are all ex- 
ceedingly nutritious, containing many stay- 
ing qualities, and very palatable. These 
may be put on warm toasted bread, or upon 
a slice of whole wheat bread that has been 
thoroughly dried. Broiled mushrooms on 
toast without butter, or mushrooms cooked 



Stout and Thin Women 1 83 

in milk served on toast, are appetizing. 
Curry of vegetables, such as cauliflower, 
very young lima beans, tomatoes and a 
little asparagus dressed with cocoanut milk 
and curry, satisfy the appetite, and give a 
small amount of nutrition without increas- 
ing the bulk. Coflfee has the power of 
saving the waste of tissue. In the morn- 
ing, if the cup of water and milk is not 
suflScient to keep one going until twelve 
o'clock, take a cup of clear coffee, sipping 
it slowly. There would not be the slightest 
objection to a small cup again after dinner. 
This may seem a tremendous amount of 
coffee for one person, but if taken clear 
and sipped slowly it will assist the obese 
in doing without food. 

The Diet I Advise for a Thin Woman 

It is almost as difficult to add flesh to the 
very thin person as to reduce the obese. 
The thin person is nervous, wiry, constantly 
on the go, and will consume, burn, and use 
sometimes twice as much food as the ordi- 
nary individual and still be thin. First of 
all, the person inclined to thinness must 



184 The Best Foods for 

learn to be quiet, even in active exercises. 
The morning bath and rub is absolutely 
necessary. For the morning meal she 
should take some light, easily digested 
food, as two soft-boiled eggs, a piece of 
milk toast, or piece of whole wheat toasted 
bread, preceding this a half hour with a cup 
of warm water. At luncheon a cream soup, 
piece of whole wheat bread, well toasted, 
any of the little made dishes, like chicken 
tim bales, boudins, omelets, with at least two 
slices of whole wheat bread thickly but- 
tered; two ounces of butter at this meal 
would not be too great a quantity, if well 
masticated with the bread. Use, also, a 
baked potato, or a couple of tablepoonfuls 
of boiled rice, and as a dessert, rice pud- 
ding, cup custard, any of the light souffles, 
or Bavarian cream — in fact, anything but 
cake, pie, or boiled puddings. Avoid all 
acid fruits. 

For the night meal have a clear soup, a 
red meat, either beef or mutton, with a 
baked potato, or mashed potato browned 
in the oven, or a potato croquette, or rice 
in any form, stewed macaroni, a green 



Stout and Thin Women 185 

vegetable, and a salad composed of a green 
vegetable with French dressing. Do not 
have more than two vegetables at one meal, 
beside the salad. For dessert have a char- 
lotte, a little ice cream eaten slowly, or one 
of those mentioned above, or a wafer that 
has been thoroughly toasted, or any of the 
ripe cheeses. 

For luncheon, where cream soups cannot 
be used, a cup of cocoa or chocolate with 
cream is exceedingly valuable. 

Indigestible Foods Must be Avoided 

One point to be remembered, in every 
line of feeding, is that the digestive viscera 
must be kept in perfectly healthy condition. 
Indigestible foods must be avoided, or good 
food will be lost with that which is useless. 
Fifty-five ounces of water a day must be 
taken ; it is better, of course, to drink it 
between meals. Do not drink tea or coffee 
with food. Avoid excessively sweet foods, 
as they are prone to fermentation. A little 
clear coffee may be taken now and then, but 
it must be remembered that clear coffee is 
especially useful in the reduction of fat, so 



1 86 The Best Foods for 

the very thin must avoid it. Tea, perhaps, 
is more objectionable than coffee. The 
crastacea and the mollasks are difficult of 
digestion, giving very little true food after 
the trouble of digesting. About six almonds 
at the close of the night meal will be found 
beneficial. Two or three times a week, with 
the dinner salad masticate thoroughly and 
swallow two Brazilian nuts, or you may use 
the nut cheese, which is very easily made by 
grinding a mixture of oily nuts. This may 
be served on lettuce leaves and used in the 
place of French dressing. 

For the very thin, cream soups are valu- 
able, such as cream of potato, cream of 
celery, cream of chicken, or cream of rice. 

Avoid such things as calf's foot jelly, 
lemon jelly, the root vegetables, such as 
turnips, carrots, beets, all the bulky vege- 
tables. Use both the white and red fish, 
and all meats except pork and veal, the 
starchy vegetables, and such easily digested 
green vegetables as cooked onions, spinach, 
lettuce, celery, cress, chicory, endive, over 
which pour at least two tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil with a few drops of lemon juice. 



Stout and Thin Women 187 

While, theoretically, sweets increase fat, 
they frequently fail utterly, in this respect, 
from a practical standpoint; therefore the 
thin woman will find better results from 
easily digested starchy' foods and fatty 
foods, such as nuts, olive oil, cream and 
butter used judiciously. They should be 
well masticated, and too great a quantity 
should not be taken at one time. She 
should also avoid all rich pastries and 
cake, on account of the complex conditions 
of the mixtures. 



THE BEST FOOD FOR BLOOD^ 

LESS GIRLS 

Sufficient and proper nutrition of all 
the organs and tissues of the body, ena- 
bling them to perform their normal activity, 
are dependent upon the condition and cir- 
culation of the blood. Any change from 
the normal healthful condition must then 
necessarily tend to general disturbances of 
all these organs. Under this heading I 
must place anaemia, a condition where the 
blood becomes watery and impoverished in 
red corpuscles. While this is not usually 
called a true disease, it is frequently the 
sign or warning of some serious trouble 
near at hand. Young girls just coming 
into womanhood are frequently overtaxed 
by the multiplicity of occupations or engage- 
ments. These are also the school days — 
days of hard mental labor, which frequently 



The Best Food 189 

last into the night, thus robbing the girl 
of her proper rest and outdoor physical 
exercise. 

Sleeping, as she usually does, in the 
same room in which she studies, there is 
little or no chance of changing the air of 
the room, and thus she undergoes a slow 
process of poisoning, really inhaling her 
own exhalations. Of course, headache, 
lassitude, and lack of appetite are the 
result. 

Under our present system of living it 
seems quite impossible to wait for break- 
fast until the appetite appears and brings 
with it the necessary digestive secretions ; 
so the schoolgirl must eat her breakfast 
soon after rising or wait until the midday 
meal is ready. She eats, or at least makes 
the effort, and here is the first step to her 
physical breakdown. 

The Modern System of Feeding 

Doctor Fothergill tells us that '' health 
is a long price to pay for education ; " 
and that "the modern system of feed- 
ing, at both boys' and girls' schools, kills 



190 The Best Food for 

off the weak and ruins the middling." Our 
American boys and girls frequently lack, 
before entering school, the physical founda- 
tion necessary to a good education. The 
girl who is allowed to sit up until twelve, 
and sleep until nine the next morning, 
is not the one who receives her educa- 
tion without fatigue, or who later in life 
w^elcomes and gives strength to her off- 
spring. Healthful sleep can only be had 
during the quiet of the night. The pale, 
anaemiated girl may not really be dis- 
eased, but she is certainly far from being 
well. Her low state of vitality prevents 
her fmm enjoying life, and robs her of 
her mental, and frequently of her moral 
energy. 

After she has arrived at this stage, treat- 
ment should be continuous until recovery. 
Early to bed should be the first motto. In 
the morning, after a sponge bath with a 
thorough rub, she*should drink half a glass 
of comfortably hot water. .When appetite 
is felt a soft-boiled egg, a piece of whole 
wheat bread thoroughly baked and well 
buttered, and a little while after a glass of 



Bloodless Girls 191 

cool water, not iced, may be taken. She 
should live out-of-doors, but not take any 
violent exercise. The erect attitude of the 
body maintains a vertical line from the 
centre of the head to the hips and thus to 
the ground. 

Some Helps to Good Health 

She should be taught to carry her body 
erect, holding her abdomen in, and putting 
the ball of her foot first on the ground. 
This is of the utmost importance to keep 
the organs in good position. The clothing 
should be loose, light, warm, and sus- 
pended from the shoulders. Skirts should 
be made of light material — either wool or 
silk. The stockings fastened to the waist 
by means of supporters ; the one skirt worn 
buttoned to the bottom of the waist, with 
an outside dress supported from the shoul- 
ders, should form the necessary clothing. 
The shoes should be made to fit the feet, 
with broad soles and low, broad heels. 
Gloves should be suflSciently loose not to 
. stop the circulation at the wrists. A short 
walk each day may be taken, but fatigue 



192 The Best Food for 

should never be produced ; far better to 
spend most of the day out-of-doors in the 
hammock or a steamer chair. 

The noonday meal should consist of a- 
good, clear beef soup, a broiled steak or 
roasted beef, a little boiled rice, a lettuce 
salad with olive-oil dressing, and some 
simple dessert, such as whipped or Bavarian 
cream. 

After Dinner She Should Rest 

After dinner, rest should be taken in 
the open air, either in the hammock or 
steamer chair, and without reading or heavy 
mental occupation. The patient should 
have some one with whom she may in- 
dulge in pleasant conversation, in which 
her mind may be entertained without being 
overtaxed. 

For supper, beef or mutton broiled and 
good whole wheat bread well buttered. At 
the close of this meal she should take slowly 
about two teaspoonfuls of olive oil and 
masticate it before swallowing. An anae- 
miated condition calls largely for fatty 
foods. The attempts at blood-making wiU. 



Bloodless Girls 19J 

frequently fail, until the patient can use 
some easily digested fat. As the fats of 
meat must be cooked to be palatable and 
free from danger, and excessive heat ren-^ 
ders fats less liable to agree with a delicate 
stomach, uncooked fats are recommended. 
Olive oil, butter, and cream may be used 
alone or with other foods : oil, for instance, 
on some well-cooked or raw green vegeta- 
ble ; butter on bread ; cream on a well- 
cooked cereal, or with toast made from 
zwieback. Cool water, not iced, should be 
the only beverage. 

Persons who have not been accustomed 
to the use of meat at night frequently 
dislike it ; so the night meal may be 
made entirely of whole wheat bread and 
old-fashioned rice pudding, or a bowl 
of well-cooked cereal with cream. If 
bread is used it should be either pulled 
bread or whole wheat bread thoroughly 
toasted. 

While I am sure the animal albuminates 
are the better forms of food for the anaemic 
girl, the articles above mentioned contain a 
considerable amount of nitrogen and may 

13 



194 The Best Food for 

l>e substituted. The only drawback is the 
"bulk, the appetite becoming satisfied before 
sufficient food has been taken to produce 
the desired result. A glass of cool water 
should be taken the last thing before re- 
tiring. 

Where the Condition Has Become 

Serious 

In cases where the ansemic condition has 
Tjeen of long standing, two-hour feeding 
should be given for at least a week. After 
the bath, say at nine o'clock, two ounces 
of milk, one ounce of barley water, and half 
an ounce of cream may be taken slowly. 
Keep these proportions throughout the first 
<lay, feeding regularly every two hours. 
The second day increase the cream to one 
ounce, and continue the feeding the same. 
The third day give two ounces of good 
coffee and one of milk on awakening, and 
rest for half an hour before bathing. Give 
for the one o'clock meal a dish of milk 
toast made from two ounces of bread well 
toasted and half a pint of milk. Toast the 
bread and spread it thickly with butter, 



Bloodless Girls 195^ 

then pour over the milk, which should be 
ju8t hot, not boiled, and eat slowly. The 
next feeding should be at four, and should 
consist of milk, barley, and cream. The 
fourth day at nine, give four ounces of 
milk, thoroughly mixed with the white of 
one egg and half an ounce of cream. At 
eleven, milk, barley water, and cream, aa 
the day before. At one o'clock, milk toast 
again. Continue this until the end of the 
seventh day. On the eighth day continue 
milk feeding until one o'clock, then give 
either a broiled or creamed sweetbread, or 
a small chopped beef cake broiled; milk 
feeding again at five, seven, and bed- 
time — nine o'clock. Continue this until 
the fourteenth day, when a regular diet, 
as mentioned at first, may begin. The 
coffee, on waking, if preceded by two or 
three mouthfuls of water, will prevent 
constipation. 

Bathing, Standing, and Walking 

The bathing of an anaemic person should 
be done without fatigue to the patient, a 
portion of the body at a time, and all 



196 The Best Food for 

under cover. A drop of hydrochloric acid 
may be added to each quart of warm water 
•used. 

Do not insist upon an anaemic person eat- 
ing when she is not hungry. Every mouth- 
ful of food taken at such times is a drawback 
to the cure of this condition. 

While food is, perhaps, of first and great- 
est importance, the subject of bathing, 
living in the open air, standing and walk- 
ing properly, should have careful attention. 
Upon observation we find that the majority 
of people carry their shoulders back of 
their hips, throwing their abdomen out of 
"balance. In this way the curve of the 
-spine is entirely changed, and it is just 
the difference between the attitude of the 
healthful and the unhealthy. 

The sitting position is also frequently in- 
-correct. Leaning against or over the desk, 
or stooping when sewing, retards or hinders 
a free circulation. Food remains in the 
stomach, in a partly undigested condition, 
from one meal to another. Here is one of 
the many causes of constipation and lack 
of appetite. Sitting on the bended spine 



Bloodless Girls 197 

is also objectionable, producing headache 
and general lassitude. All these unnatural 
<ionditions must be corrected, if one expects 
an improvement or cure. 

Prevention is Better than Cure 

If mothers only knew how to prepare 
their children for the hardships of life these 
conditions might be easily avoided. At a 
very early age they should be taught to eat 
food to build muscle, brain, and nerve, and 
to give force and heat — not simply to 
satisfy appetite, a scientific rather than a 
haphazard operation. It is not necessary, 
however, to hold long conversations with 
the child as to what she should and should 
not eat. Human nature frequently goes to 
the contrary, and if the food mentioned is 
not the sort that the child particularly likes 
she refuses it, of course. Then, too, a 
mother forgets her own shortcomings and 
prejudices, and brings her child up in 
that same groove. She likes things over- 
sweet, and the first dish of oatmeal given 
to her first child is simply covered with 
«ugar. And so it continues untU the child, 



198 The Best Food for 

never having tasted oatmeal without sugar, 
feels and knows that it is the proper 
thing to eat. In a little while the health 
gives out, and the child has indigestion. 
At the doctor's request sugar is taken 
from the oat-meal, but the child simply 
refuses to eat it, naturally feeling that 
she has been robbed of the very best 
part of the dish. 

Special Feeding for Special Diseases 

The mother who dislikes fat, when pre- 
paring a dish of meat for her child, trims off 
carefully all the fat, pushes it to one side 
of the plate, and the child thus trained 
from infancy feels that fat is objectionable, 
and at the age of fifteen or sixteen, when 
an anaemic condition comes over her, fat, 
the one necessary article to her salvation,, 
is the most difficult to take, and it is fre- 
quently necessary to resort to oil baths or 
oil inunctions. Tuberculosis, scrofula, and 
rickets are diseases frequently following 
these anaemic conditions. You will na 
doubt call to mind that cod-liver oil is the 
first thing added to the ordinary dietary. 



Bloodless Girls 199 

Butter and cream may be used in as large 
quantities as the patient can conveniently 
digest. Far better one teaspoonful of oil 
thoroughly digested than four tablespoon- 
f uls to irritate and upset the already weak- 
ened digestive viscera. 

All fried foods must be strictly avoided. 
Potatoes may be eaten twice a week, and 
should always be baked. Boiled rice may 
betaken once a day; but all bulk foods, 
such as turnips, cabbage, carrots, and pars- 
nips, should be avoided. I fully believe 
that special feeding in any disease will 
bring about cures unattainable by medicine 
alone. By special feeding for different 
diseases, I mean living on precisely such 
food as the patient in that condition can 
thoroughly digest and assimilate; or upon 
the best foods to repair the diseased tissues, 
rejecting all others. Among the bulk foods 
I class the ordinary breakfast cereals ; a 
tablespoonful of this dry mixture will fre- 
quently thicken half a pint of water. After 
all, it is but a tablespoonful of food — the 
half pint has a large bulk. The ansepiic 
girl cannot afford to burden herself with 



2CX) The Best Food for 

such foods ; the more concentrated nitrog- 
enous foods, with the carbonaceous ele- 
ments composed of easily digested fats 
or oils, are more desirable. 



How a Qixl May Go through College 

A CHILD who has had the proper founda- 
tion, whose diet has been carefully regulated, 
and who has used water as a beverage, may 
go through school and college, taking ad- 
vantage of all the various departments, 
without the slightest breakdown. The gym- 
nasiums of to-day are certainly doing an 
admirable work for women, like the track 
for men. All exercise should be taken in 
moderation, and for health's sake, not espe- 
cially for honor or glory. The overtaxing 
of the heart's energies will, of course, pro- 
duce serious results. 

Sweets are undoubtedly largely to blame 
for the lack of appetite in the young school- 
girl. Mothers should not only insist upon,, 
but teach their children not to buy candies 
or cakes. Tea and coffee are stimulants 
that may be used to help us out in middle 



1 



Bloodless Girls 201 

or after life, but they certainly have no 
place in the dietary of youth. Preserves 
and cake for the night meal are also largely 
productive of the dyspeptic condition of 
the Out-of-town dweller. Heavy breakfasts 
are not always desirable. We eat and 
breathe to furnish the body with strength. 
Strength can and will come in no other 
^ay. 

In the vegetable world the energy of the 
sunshine is stored in the plants which we 
consume, thus the energy of the sunshine 
is transferred into our bodies. Oxygena- 
tion, with its subsequent reddening of the 
blood, depends upon the contact with pure 
atmospheric air in the lungs during breath- 
ing. Now the more the body is exposed to 
the sunlight and pure air, the more oxygen 
we will imbibe, the results of which are 
plainly shown in persons living out-of- 
doors. The pallidness of the schoolgirl 
comes, then, from a lack of all food sup- 
plies. The society girl, who carries night 
into day, and has all her pleasures after 
lamplight, when respiration is imperfectly 
performed, in close and il]/ ventilated thea- 



202 The Best Food for Girls 

tres and baU-rooms, soon joins the army c^ 
anaemic women. When anaemia establishes 
itself it must be r^arded as a harbinger of 
death in a vast concourse of diseases, and 
given most heroic treatment. 



THE PROPER COOKING FOR 
THE NURSERY 

I HAVE already strongly urged that the 
early food of a young infant should be the 
breast milk of its own mother. Where this 
cannot be, a modified milk may be used. 
But when possible the child should for the 
first seven months be nursed regularly by 
its mother at intervals of two to three 
hours. 

Where artificial feeding becomes neces- 
sary no farinaceous substances whatever, 
no thickening of any kind, should enter 
into the composition of the food, as the 
infant is wholly unprovided with the secre- 
tions necessary for the digestion of starchy 
foods. 

A Natural Food for Infants 
Cow's milk contains more casein, more 
saline matter, and a little less water, and 



204 The Proper Cooking 

less sugar than human milk. The curd or 
casein is that part which so quickly upsets 
the digestion of the infant. It should, then, 
be removed. First Pasteurize two quarts 
of milk. To do this dissolve two junket 
tablets in a tablespoonf ul of warm water ; 
add to the milk. Allow this to stand for 
ten minutes, then with a fork stir gently, 
that the curd may be easily separated from 
the whey; strain. You will then have a 
whey containing the sugar of milk, a goodly 
portion of the fatty matter, and nearly all 
the saline matter. Add to this a pint of 
water, half an ounce of sugar of milk, three 
ounces of cream, and four ounces of white 
of egg. The white of egg must be shaken 
with a small quantity of the whey, and then 
mixed with the whole. Stand at once in a 
cool place. Heat it to blood heat, and feed 
it from a bottle. 

As the child grows older, diluted cow'b 
milk in the proportion of two-thirds milk 
and one-third barley water, may be given 
by means of a feeding-bottle, which should 
be kept scrupulously clean. Each time the 
nipple is taken off it should be carefully 



for the Nursery 205 

examined to see if it draws easily, the 
bottle be rinsed out, and both placed in a 
vessel of clean, cold water, to which has 
been added a teaspoonful of bicarbonate 
of soda. 

If constipation begins with feeding milk 
to the child, add cream in the proportion of 
a tablespoonful to each pint of milk. 

Some Foods to Use for the Child 

The first starch feeding will take place 
after the child has cut at least four or eight 
teeth ; and then one of the nicest of all the 
preparations is German flour gruel. To 
make this, take a double square of cheese- 
cloth, put into the centre half a pint of 
flour ; fold the cloth around, press it closely 
to form a ball; pack, and tie tightly. 
Throw this into a kettle of boiling water 
and boil continuously for five hours. Take 
it out, remove the cloth, peel off the moist 
outside covering, and grate the hard, dry 
portion into a baking-pan lined with per- 
fectly clean white paper. Stand this in 
a moderate oven until the flour becomes 
slightly brown and perfectly dry. When 



2o6 The Proper Cooking 

cool, put it in a glass jar, and it is ready to 
use. To make the gruel, moisten two tea- 
spoonfuls in a little cold water, stir it into 
one pint of boiling water, and cook slowly 
for eight minutes; dilute with milk. 

Arrcwroot and Cornmeal Gruel 

Frequently a child fed upon cow's milk 
will immediately become constipated. A 
mixing of barley water, or rice water, or 
arrowroot gruel, with the milk will correct 
the condition almost immediately. Use 
one-third of the starch waters to two- thirds 
milk. 

Corn flour also makes a nice gruel, but 
must be cooked at least fifteen minutes and 
well strained. The fluffy dinner biscuits, 
which are thoroughly baked until yellow to 
the very centre, may be grated, boiled in 
water, and used as a gruel with milk for 
food of a child from eighteen months to 
two years old, before the time for more 
solid foods. The biscuits are made without 
yeast or baking powders. Bread food, or 
coarse cereals containing bran, if given in 
too great quantities, provoke diarrhcea, the 



for the Nursery 207 

intestines being irritated by the starch and 
bran. 

The flour or German gruel and barley 
water are not altogether starchy foods ; they 
contain a considerable proportion of the 
nitrogenous principles, besides the earthy 
phosphates, which are of high value. 

Pea Gruel, Bean Gruel, and Lentil Gruel 

For children of from three to four years 
of age, where there is a tendency to con- 
stipation, any one of the above gruels may 
be used. Soak two ounces of peas, beans, 
or lentils over night. Next day wash them 
well ; cover with boiling water, boil five or 
ten minutes; strain, throwing the water 
away. Now cover these with a quart of 
water and cook continuously for two hours 5 
press through a very fine sieve ; return the 
gruel to the fire, cook for ten or fifteen min- 
utes, and dilute with milk. This may be 
used as a luncheon soup, and will give a per- 
fect meal if eaten with toasted bread. It 
must be remembered that bread or crackers 
should not be broken into any form of liquid 
or semi-liquid foods given to a child. 



2o8 The Proper Cooking 

The Preparation of Cereals for Children 

As the child grows older we come to the 
cooking of cereal foods. Few materials 
are more irritating than cereals improperly 
cooked. While the Scotch build their mus- 
cles and the great frame underneath from 
oatmeal, they are careful to have it always 
well cooked. If you can use Scotch, Irish, 
or the American steel-cut oats, cooking it 
ten hours, or over night, you have an ad- 
mirable food for the growing child. Where 
this cannot be done the lighter wheat foods 
are to be preferred. 

Meats used in the nursery must be lightly 
broiled, roasted, or boiled, never fried, 
even for grown people, much less for 
children. 

Eggs should be lightly cooked, so that the 
whites will be creamy, not tough. 

Cream Soups for Small Children 

Many of the cream soups are admirably 
adapted to children from the age of three 
or three and a half to twelve. Cream of 
celery soup is one of the nicest. Take 



for the Nursery 209 

three heads of celery, remove the outside 
portions, save the white inner part for table 
use. Cut these outside pieces into bits, 
cover with a pint of cold water, and bring 
slowly to a boil, and continue the boiling for 
thirty minutes. Press through a colander. 
Add one pint of milk ; return the mixture to 
the fire in a double boiler. Rub together 
one tablespoonf ul of butter and two of flour ; 
add to the hot soup ; stir until boiling ; add 
a teaspoonf ul of celery salt, and use. 

Cream of Spinach Soup 

To make cream of spinach soup, pick 
the leaves from the stems of two quarts 
of spinach, wash through several cold 

• 

waters, shake lightly to free from sand, 
and throw them into a warm kettle ; there 
will be suflScient water remaining on the 
leaves to create steam for the cooking. 
Shake, and toss for about five minutes. 
Drain the spinach; chop it very fine, and 
then press it through a sieve. Add gradu- 
ally, stirring all the while, one quart of 
cold milk. This should have the consis- 
tency of thin cream, and be of a bright 

14 



2IO The Proper Cooking 

green color. Pat in a double boiler, moisten 
a teaspoonf ul of arrowroot or half a table- 
spoonful of cornstarch with a little cold 
milk ; add to the soup ; stir until boiling, 
strain through a sieve ; add half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and just as you turn it into the 
tureen add a tablespoonful of butter cut 
into bits. 

Cream of Pea Soup and Soup Soubise 

For cream of pea soup use fresh green 
peas. Shell them and wash the shells. 
Put the shells with one quart of water into 
a kettle, boil for fifteen minutes; drain, 
saving the water, into which you will turn 
the uncooked peas ; cover, cook rapidly for 
twenty minutes, press through a colander 
and then through a sieve. Return the mix- 
ture to the fire and cook slowly for fifteen 
minutes. Heat in a double boiler one pint 
of milk; moisten a tablespoonful of corn- 
starch in a little cold milk; add it to the 
milk in the boiler; cook until smooth. 
Turn this into the pea mixture; add a 
tablespoonful of butter cut into bits, and 
half a teaspoonful of salt, and use at once. 



for the Nursery 211 

Young lima beans may be used in the same 
way. 

Where there is an inclination to constipa- 
tion, soup soubise is exceedingly valuable, 
but should not be given to a child under six 
years of age. Take one good-sized white 
onion, peel, cut it into slices ; cover with a 
quart of boiling water, boil rapidly for five 
minutes; drain, cover again with boiling 
water, and boil five minutes ; drain. Cover 
the onions now with one pint of boiling 
water and cook slowly for half an hour; 
press through a sieve. Add one pint of milk 
thickened as in preceding receipt, and half a 
teaspoonful of salt, and it is ready to use. 

The Bread 'Which a Child Needs 

Under this heading one would include all 
forms of twice-baked bread — zwiebach, the 
ordinary rusk, the pulled bread, the toasted 
water crackers, and ordinary dry toast — 
the object being to render them more diges- 
tible by allowing the heat in the second 
baking to convert a portion of the starch 
into sugar. A plain rusk may be made by 
adding just a little sugar to the bread dough ; 



212 The Proper Cooking 

instead of making it into loaves make it 
into small biscuits, and when it is very light 
bake carefully for thirty minutes. Take 
from the oven, and when cool pull them 
carefully into halves. Line a baking-pan 
with brown paper, put in the halves, crust 
side down ; put into a very moderate oven, 
that the moisture may be driven out, then 
close the door and brown the rusk slowly 
to the very centre, being careful not to 
burn. These may be put into clean cheese- 
cloth bags and hung up in a dry, cool closet. 
They may be served plain or may be covered 
with hot milk, or may be covered with hot 
water, and a little cream added at serving 
time. 

Mush bread forms one of the best break- 
fast foods for growing children. Stir care- 
fully into one pint of hot milk in a double 
boiler two-thirds of a cup of coarse corn- 
meal. Cook, and stir five minutes. Take 
from the fire, and when cool — not cold — 
add the yolks of four eggs. Then carefully 
fold in the well-beaten whites. Turn this 
into a baking-dish and bake thirty minutes 
In a quick oven. 



for the Nursery 213 

The Cooking of Fruit for Children 

Baked apples may be used where they 
agree ; a raw, scraped apple may be given ; 
bananas should always be cooked, unless 
they are very ripe and the skins quite black. 
To bake bananas nicely you should have a 
porcelain or granite baking-dish. Strip the 
skins from the bananas, place them in a 
dish, sprinkle over a tablespoonf ul of sugar ; 
add four or five tablespoonfuls of water, 
and bake in a quick oven for twenty min- 
utes, basting once or twice. Serve warm. 

Blackberry jam, if properly made, is quite 
an important nursery food. 

Desserts for the Little Ones 

Old-fashioned rice pudding, cup custard, 
floating island, and brown betty with milk 
and whipped cream are simple desserts, 
and are really the only ones that are ad- 
visable to give to children. 

Rice pudding is made by washing two 
tablespoonfuls of rice and adding it to one 
quart of cold milk ; add two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar and twelve good-sized raisins, 



214 The Proper Cooking 

seeded. Put this in a baking-dish in a 
moderate oven ; cook slowly, stirring dowa 
the crust as fast as it forms, for one hour ; 
then allow the crust to remain until it is a 
golden brown. 

To make velvet cream, cover a quarter 
of a box of gelatine with four tablespoon- 
fuls of water, and let it soak for fifteen 
minutes. Whip one pint of cream ; turn it 
into a pan, stand it in another of cracked 
ice, sprinke over four tablespoonfuls of 
sugar ; add a teaspoonf ul of vanilla. Add 
to the gelatine four tablespoonfuls of milk ; 
stand it over the teakettle until the gelatine 
is dissolved. Strain this into the cream^ 
and stir at once and continuously until you 
have a smooth, light, slightly thickened 
mass. Turn into a dainty mold or cup 
and stand away to cool. 

For floating island, put one pint of milk 
into a double boiler. Separate three eggs, 
beat the whites to a stiff froth, drop them 
by spoonfuls over the top of the milk, 
allow them to remain for just a moment, 
then lift carefully. Beat the yolks of the 
eggs with two tablespoonfuls of sugar; 



for the Nursery 215 

add them to the hot milk, cook until the 
mixture slightly thickens — be very cai*eful 
that it does not curdle ; take from the fire ; 
add a teaspoonful of vanilla and turn into 
the dish in which it is to be served. Heap 
the whites of the eggs over the top and 
serve cold. 

To make cup custard, beat two eggs with- 
out separating until well mixed; add two 
tablespoon fuls of sugar and one pint of 
milk ; add a grating of nutmeg, and pour 
into four custard-cups. Stand these in a 
baking-pan half filled with boiling water, 
and cook in a slow oven until they are set 
in the centre. We have here an infallible 
rule for trying : Run a spoon-handle down 
in the centre of the custard ; if it comes out 
perfectly clean they are done ; if milky, they 
must be cooked longer. Serve cold. 

Salads Suitable for Children 

Salads are as necessary for children as 
they are for adults, but they must be of a 
very delicate nature. Celery dressed with 
oil and a few drops of lemon juice is very 
nice, providing the celery is young, white. 



iii6 The Proper Cooking 

tender, and chopped very fine. If lettuce 
is used it should be the very tender young 
pieces, from the centre of the head, cut just 
at serving time into very fine shreds, dressed 
with oil and a few drops of lemon juice. 
Mayonnaise dressing should never be used. 
Carefully cooked spinach, chopped very fine, 
may be served also with a French dressing. 
Endive should be cut into thin strips and 
dressed. Outside of the greens mentioned 
there are very few others that are advisable 
to give to children. 



THE BEST FOOD FOR A 
GROWING CHILD. 

In child-building the mother or caretaker 
should be perfectly familiar with what con- 
stitutes perfect health. Successful feeding 
is based upon the recognition of certain 
chemical elements, each portion to play a 
certain part in the building. The body of 
man performs various actions, many of 
which are easily seen ; others require most 
careful observation. For instance, the pul- 
sation of the heart, the change of the eye 
as it looks to the far-off object or the one 
near by, and of the pupil under different 
colors and lights. The air coming out of 
the body is hotter and damper than that 
going in. All this shows that there is a tre- 
mendous amount of internal laboring, which 
must be taken into account and added to 
the labor which is so easily seen. 



21 8 The Best Food for a 

Foods 'Which Contain the Proper Elements. 

In stadying the making of the flesh and 
blood, much theory is necessary. I may 
compare the building of the man to that of 
the locomotive, as I did in a former article. 
The iron used for the structure of the latter 
I will compare to the lean flesh of the man 
— proteid matter for flesh building, mineral 
matter for the bones, nails, teeth, and hair; 
fats and carbohydrates for heat and force, 
and water as a conveyer of all. Study the 
child for a moment and observe how his 
body is proportioned, and then select such 
foods as contain the proper elements in the 
proportion of Nature's requirements. Of 
the carbohydrates and heat producers he 
certainly must have a greater proportion 
than of the proteids or constructive mate- 
rials, as the heat is constantly being thrown 
off, and motion is the result of the fire. 
After a house is built a few feet of lumber 
will keep it in good repair. In building 
the house, however, as in building the 
child, a large quantity of first material is 
necessary. 



^ Growing Child 219 

The simple food names of the proteids or 
nitrogenous group are lean meats, eggs, 
milk, cheese (its product), the gluten of 
wheat and other cereals, fungi, and the 
legumen of the pulse family — peas, beans, 
and lentils. The carbohydrates are sugars 
and starches. The fats rank first in heat 
and force producing, consequently are of 
greater importance. Butter, taken at the 
temperature of the stomach, is one excel- 
lent form; also cream, providing it has 
been given good care and the cows from 
which the milk was taken in a healthy 
condition. Of all the food products milk 
is capable of the greatest contamination 
from surrounding conditions of any sort 
or kind. 

Fried Foods and Cooked Fata. 

Olive oil, made as it is from the fruit of 
a tree, is free from contaminating germs. 
Its sweet, nutty flavor makes it the most 
attractive of all fatty foods. Use in build- 
ing your child as much of the vegetable 
world as possible, being most careful of the 
flesh of animals. The fat of meat, which 



220 The Best Food for a 

is usually overcooked, is robbed of its best 
use, as during the cooking it has been de- 
composed, and is to a greater or less extent 
robbed of its digestibility. Heat produces 
fatty irritant acids. The fat of poultry is 
also difficult of digestion. As the depth 
of lean meat is not great on the average 
chicken, a large portion becomes saturated 
with this overheated fat and renders the 
whole objectionable. This is especially true 
of turkey. For children and invalids the 
fat should be carefully removed from all 
meat, and the cooking quickly and carefully 
done. The smaller the bird the greater the 
necessity for care. In consequence of these 
conditions the wild game which Nature 
provides is much more easily digested than 
the tame barnyard fowls. Water birds 
are less digestible than land birds on ac- 
count of their over-flesh-feeding. Fried 
foods should not enter into the dietary of 
children. 

Slow cooking in hot, not boiling, water 
softens the fibre of both meats and vege- 
tables, and renders them easy of digestion. 
In this way fat meats are not overheated 



Growing Child 22 r 

and may be used sparingly. Sauces are 
objectionable, and highly seasoned food 
must not be given to children under any 
consideration. The simpler the child's diet 
the better. 

Breads which a Child may Eat. 

All kinds of bread, especially those 
made with yeast, must be used with care. 
They ferment easily unless thoroughly 
baked. The centre of a large loaf, no mat- 
ter how hot the oven, frequently bakes at a 
temperature below that of boiling water. 
This may or may not be sufficient heat ta 
kill the yeast plant. If not, it enters the 
stomach, which is warm and moist — a place 
most suited for its rapid growth. The food 
already in the stomach becomes involved, 
and the whole is lost to the individual. 
White bread is deficient in mineral matter, 
so necessary to the framework and teeth 
of the child. Whole wheat bread, well 
baked in small loaves, is the best form 
to be used. One pound of whole wheat 
flour contains double the amount of gluten, 
and nearly three times as much mineral 



222 The Best Food for a 

matter as a pound of white flour. The 
use of a white bread diet makes flesh food 
a necessity. We must eat animal food to 
get back that which has been taken from us 
in the bolting of the flour. Such neglect 
of oversight in child-feeding soon makes 
the child's life a burden. 

Breajd containing all the properties of the 
wheat is truly the " staff of life," and 
a most important food for the nervous, 
anaemic child, as well as in all conditions 
involving imperfect nutrition of the bones 
and teeth. 

The Sweet and the Starchy Foods. 

The first is found in Nature's storehouse 
in a much better condition than in the 
manufactory. The cane sugar of com- 
merce, so condensed, must be used in small 
quantities. Nature blends her sugar with 
other materials. The sugar needed for the 
building of the healthy child is found in 
the fruits, cereals, and vegetables. Starch 
is converted into sugar in the process of 
digestion. Cane sugar spread over bread 
and butter or oatmeal adds only to their 



Growing Child 223 

complexity and makes their perfect diges- 
tion almost impossible. The starches are 
found in rice and grains, such as the cere- 
als, commeal, wheat flour, and in many 
vegetables, especially potatoes. The bone- 
making materials are again found in vege- 
tables and grains, wheat heading the list. 
The proteids commonly used are of the ani- 
mal kingdom — not from necessity but from 
lack of knowledge. 

Beef Heads the List of Meats. 

A WEAK stomach will digest beef with 
greater ease than other meats, assuming 
the cooking to be properly done. All meth- 
ods of cooking requiring great heat, such 
as roasting, baking, broiling, or frying, are 
apt to produce the fatty acids on the sur- 
face, so the outside portions should not be 
used. The inside is easy of digestion, con- 
sequently of greater food value. Mutton 
is next in order, then carefully fed and 
well-killed poultry, and fresh, white-fleshed 
fish. Eggs and milk are admirable forms 
of animal food for the growing child. Veal 
and lamb are less nutritious and digestible 



224 The Best Food for a 

than the flesh of the fully grown animal, 
and should not be given to children. Veal 
frequently produces an acute attack of indi- 
gestion, and is really a poison* Lamb is 
preferable to veal, as it is not so indiges- 
tible, but is not very nutritious, conse- 
quently the work of digestion is performed 
without reward. What is said of veal ap- 
plies equally to pork, only that the latter 
contains more fat, making it even more 
indigestible and objectionable, if that is 
possible. All forms of pork should be 
strictly avoided in the child's dietary. 

Venison and Game May be Used. 

Wild meats, as venison and birds, may, 
as a rule, be used freely ; in fact, all wild 
meats are far less liable to contamination 
than meat from animals under the care of 
man. Man, in his desire to increase the 
weight of the animal, resorts to inordinate 
over- feeding, which produces disease. Rab- 
bits stand alone. The fibre of a rabbit is 
hard, dense, and difficult of digestion. The 
cooking, however, determines its food value. 
A slow, moist heat renders the fibre soft. 



Growing Child 225 

Stewing and braising are the best methods. 
Intense heat renders it entirely unfit for 
food to any save the outdoor laborer. From 
necessity our grandmothers used wild meats 
much more frequently than we. The old- 
fashioned way was to '* jug " the rabbit — 
that is, they put it into a jar or jug, cov- 
ered it with water, and cooked it in the 
oven for two or three hours until it was 
soft and tender. 

Shell-fish and the Crustacea do not belong 
to the child's dietary. Sweetbreads are 
the only internal organs of animals which 
should be used as food for the growing 
child, and these should be carefully cooked. 

Cheese is a very concentrated, highly 
nitrogenous material, diflScult of digestion, 
and cannot be used in the diet of a young 
child, yet it is palatable to those who know 
how to cook and eat it. A growing boy or 
girl, say from twelve years upward, can use 
to good advantage a small quantity of well- 
cooked cheese once or twice a week. It 
must be well-made cheese, not artificially 
fattened, and must be carefully cooked. 
Even at best, cheese requires at least three 

15 



226 The Best Food for a 

hours for perfect digestion, but after the 
work has been completed one has full value 
for the energy expended. 

New dense cheese, such as one frequently 
sees throughout the country, is almost inca- 
pable of solution in the gastric secretions. 
One ounce of such cheese given to a young 
child would probably throw it into con- 
vulsions unless Nature came quickly to its 
relief. 

The Value of Vegetables and Fruits. 

I HAVE gone carefully over the flesh and 
bone making foods, and considered those 
which produce heat and force, and now I 
come to the great mass of bulk foods, just 
as necessary in their way, as they keep all 
the excretory organs in a good, healthy 
condition and contain the necessary acids 
and alkalies for the blood. The green, 
succulent vegetables and fruits must be 
added to every complete diet list. Three- 
quarters of the weight of the body should 
be water. A large proportion of this is 
derived from fruits and succulent vegeta- 
bles. Children, in eating fruit, should be 



Growing Child 227 

taught to discard the seeds, skins, and the 
seed pits, the cores or seed cells of such 
fruits as pears and apples, and the seg- 
ments of oranges. The oleaginous nuts 
may be used in moderation, but must in 
every instance be reduced to pulp before 
swallowing. The starchy nuts, of which 
chestnuts are our principal example, can- 
not be digested unless they are thoroughly 
cooked. 

An ISntdre Day's Menu for a Child. 

A CHILD must have in its active life 
at least two-thirds carbonaceous foods and 
one-third nitrogenous or flesh-building foods. 
For breakfast he may have first a well- 
baked or steamed apple, a little apple sauce, 
a ripe peach or some grapes, followed by a 
well-cooked cereal with milk, after which a 
soft-boiled egg, a small bit of broiled white- 
fish, a little broiled sweetbread, a piece of 
broiled chicken, or he may take simply a 
bowl of oatmeal or other grain preparation, 
and a slice of well-toasted whole wheat 
bread. For dinner a clear soup, followed 
by a red meat, either beef or mutton, 



228 The Best Food for a 

broiled, boiled, or roasted, or any of the 
wild meats, with one starchy vegetable, 
such as rice, potato, or stewed macaroni, 
and one green vegetable simply cooked, 
such as spinach, cauliflower, asparagus, 
lettuce, cress, celery, well-cooked cucum- 
ber, carefully stewed turnip or well-boiled 
radish, over which is poured a little cream 
sauce, giving the required fatty matter. 
The better method, however, is to give the 
succulent vegetable, carefully and simply 
cooked, followed by a little shredded let- 
tuce mixed with a teaspoon ful of olive oil 
and a drop or two of lemon juice. 

Next comes the dessert — a thing to be 
most carefully considered. Cake, of course, 
should never be given ; even an adult 
should look upon cake and pastry as an 
evil. Such things as rice pudding, cup 
custard, caramel custard, mock charlotte, 
floating island, rice dumplings, boiled rice 
and milk, and moulded rice with whipped 
cream may be used. Water not iced should 
be the accompanying beverage. 

Supper may consist of bread, thoroughly 
baked, with either butter or milk, or com- 



Growing Child 229 

meal mush and milk, mush bread, bread 
sticks, and chicken broth. Milk is the best 
liquid food for the child's night meal. 

Three Menus for the Growing Child. 



Bbeakfast 
Wheatlet Milk 

Whole Wheat Bread Baked Apple 

Dinner 

Clear Soup 

Broiled Steak Baked Potato 

Lettnce Salad 

Rice Pudding 

Supper 

Toasted Whole Wheat Bread 

Milk 



Breakfast 

Oatmeal Milk 

Toasted Bread Stewed Prunes 

Dinner 

Clear Soup 

Boiled Mutton Boiled Kice 

Cream Sauce 
Very Tender Celery cut fine 

Whipped Cream 

Supper 

Cornmeal mush and Milk 

Whole Wheat Bread 



230 



The Best Food 



Breakfast 

Wheatlet Milk 

Stewed Dates Whole Wheat Bread 

Dinner 

Mutton Broth 

Roasted Beef Mashed Potatoes 

Spinach 

Boiled Rice and Milk 

Supper 
Toasted Whole Wheat Bread Milk 



COOKING FOR THE SICK AND 
CONVALESCENT 

In cooking for the sick a moderate heat is 
necessary to bring out and intensify, rather 
than destroy or keep within, the delicate 
flavorings of the materials used. Where 
receipts call for butter it must be added 
to hot dishes after they have been taken 
from the fire. All fried things must be 
avoided. 

Gruels, or semi-starchy foods, require 
long, slow cooking. Meats must be cooked, 
but not be overdone. Under no circum- 
stances should raw meats, raw beef juice, 
or raw beef tea be used. Pasteurization is 
necessary to remove the danger of disease 
germs. 

Serve hot foods hot; cold foods cold. 
This does not mean the extreme of either. 



232 Cooking for the Sick 

Garnish each dish carefully. 

Gruel should be served in cups, not 
glasses. Porridge should be served in a 
deep bowl. 

Beef juice may be served in a china 
cup. 

Poached eggs may be placed on squares 
of daintily toasted bread. 

Calf's-foot jelly may be moulded in indi- 
vidual moulds, and then placed on a pretty 
glass or china saucer. 

Broiled chops may be garnished with 
parsley, and the bone covered with a quill 
of fringed paper. Small birds may be ar- 
ranged on nicely toasted bread, and gar- 
nished either with parsley, watercress, or 
celery. Serve everything of this sort on a 
china plate. 

In arranging the tray keep everything as 
dainty as possible, using white or very 
pale colors. A simple vase of flowers, 
with not too decided an odor, will prove 
an added attraction. Roses, violets, lilies- 
of-the-valley, or bouvardias are advisable 
for their daintiness and absence of heavy 
odor. 



and Convalescent 232 

The Proper Way to Make Beef Tea 

Select one pound of very lean beef from 
the round. Put the meat twice through an 
ordinary meat-chopper, or chop it very fine. 
Cover it with one pint of cold water and 
«tir it well with a wooden spoon. Allow it 
to stand in a cool place over night if possi- 
ble, or at least two hours. Then put it 
over the fire and stir constantly until it 
reaches 165° Fahrenheit, or the Pasteuriz- 
ing point. Strain through a colander ; add 
the beaten white of one egg, return to the 
fire for just an instant, and strain through 
two thicknesses of cheesecloth; add a 
quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, and put 
it at once in a cold place. This beef tea 
•contains nourishment. Beef tea made by 
boiling does not. It is, however, a stimu- 
lant. Beef tea made after this receipt should 
be dark in color and perfectly clear. When 
giving it to the patient care must be taken 
to heat only to the same degree as mentioned 
above. If it boils it is spoiled. Where con- 
tinued feeding is necessary the patient fre- 
quently tires of the flavoring of beef. To 



234 Cooking for the Sick 

overcome this have a system of flavoring, 
using such article as will not interfere with 
the disease. For instance, take one morn- 
ing a bay leaf and soak it with the beef ; 
another, a quarter of a teaspoonful of celery 
seed ; then a single clove ; then a blade of 
mace. 

When Feeding a Consumptive 

Where more albumen is needed than can 
be obtained in the beef tea, as in feeding a 
consumptive, you may add to the beef tea, 
after it has been strained the last time, one 
ounce of dried albumen. This can easily 
be made at home by evaporating the water 
from the whites of eggs. Take a perfectly 
clean, large meat-plate, scald, and have it 
hot enough to quickly dry. Then, when it 
has cooled, put over a sufficient number of 
the whites of eggs to just cover the dish. 
Stand this in a warm or almost cool oven 
until the water evaporates and the albumen 
is dry. Be exceedingly careful that you do 
not cook nor coagulate, rather than dry 
them. This albumen, if properly dried, 
will look like pieces of gelatine. Break it 



and Convalescent 235 

apart, put it in a sterilized jar, and stand 
aside for future use. 

Beef Juice and Beef Tea 

The difference between beef juice and 
beef tea is that one is diluted with water, 
and the other contains only the juice and 
water of the beef. Where digestion is 
weak, beef tea is rather the better, as a 
diluted food will be more quickly acted 
upon by the delicate secretions of the stom- 
ach than one more concentrated. Select 
for this a piece of the round of beef, about 
one inch thick. Broil quickly over a clear 
fire, browning it on one side, then turning 
and browning on the other. Put it at once 
on a heated dish, cut into dice, and with 
either a lemon-squeezer or an ordinary 
meat-press, press out the juice. Use as a 
receptacle a hot cup. The heat in broiling 
the meat will Pasteurize the juices. 

When Stimulants are Called for 

Where stimulants seem to be called for, 
and all forms of liquor disagree, beef ex- 
tract is most acceptable. Take one pound 



I 

2^6 Cooking for the Sick 

of beef, cut it into dice and put it into & 
quart fruit jar. Fasten the jar, stand it in a. 
kettle of cold water, bring slowly to boiling 
point, and continue the boiling two hours. 
Strain through two thicknesses of cheese- 
cloth and stand aside to cool. A tablespoon- 
ful of this extract of beef is a good-sized 
dose. 

Broths Contain Little Nourishment 

Under the head of broths we have a foodi 
almost without nourishment, save that ob- 
tained from the rice or barley added. 
Broths are stimulating appetizers rather 
than foods. In making mutton broth, 
select a neck of mutton, wipe carefully, 
and cut into small pieces. Put it into a 
kettle and cover with two quarts of cold 
water. Bring slowly to boiling point and 
skim. Then put it on the back part of the 
stove and keep it at about 180° Fahrenheit 
for three hours. Add two ounces of rice 
after the broth has been cooking two hours. 
You may also add either a bay leaf, a quar- 
ter of a teaspoonf ul of celery seed, or a blade 
of mace. Changing, as in the beef tea^ 



and Convalescent 237 

you may make a number of combinations. 
Strain, and stand aside to cool. When 
cold remove every particle of fat from the 
surface. Reheat in a double boiler and it 
is ready for use. 

How One Chicken May be Utilized 

In feeding the sick one chicken may be 
used for several dishes. For instance, take 
the white meat off uncooked, and use it for 
a pur^e, panada, or timbale. The dark 
meat of the second joint may be used for 
the broth, while the legs, feet, and the bony 
parts of the back may be used for jelly. It 
has been my experience, where beef tea is 
not acceptable to a patient, that chicken 
jelly will sometimes be taken, especially if 
it is served in attractive form. A block of 
jelly may be put into the mouth of a patient, 
and it will quickly melt and dissolve, and 
she has really taken chicken broth, only in 
a solid-appearing form. To make chicken 
broth, crack the bone thoroughly, and cut 
the meat off the second joints into long 
slashes. To each quarter of a pound allow 
half a pint of water. Make from the two 



238 Cooking for the Sick 

joints of one chicken one pint of broth, 
starting, of course, with a quart of cold 
water, and allowing it to evaporate to a 
pint. Bring slowly to the boiling point and 
simmer for two hours. Strain and season. 

Chicken Jelly Moulded in Foims 

To make chicken jelly, scald the feet of 
the chicken, remove the skin and nails, and 
chop into pieces. Crack the bones of the 
back and legs. Put all into a kettle, and 
cover with one quart of cold water. Bring 
slowly to the boiling point and simmer two 
hours. Then add a quarter of a teaspoon- 
f ul of celery seed, a bay leaf, and simmer 
thirty minutes longer. Strain, and stand 
aside to cool. When cold remove every 
particle of fat from the surface, turn out 
the jelly, and carefully remove the sediment 
from the bottom. Beat slightly the white 
of one egg ; add it to the jelly, and bring it 
to the boiling point; boil for a moment and 
strain through two thicknesses of cheese- 
cloth. Turn into small moulds and stand 
away to harden. This may also be moulded 
in an ordinary shallow dish. When serving 



and Convalescent 239 

this to the invalid cut into cubes of one 
inch, and arrange on a dainty plate. 

A Valuable Receipt for Calf%-foot Jelly 

To make calf s-foot jelly, select two 
calves' feet, wash them in cold water, split 
into halves, and crack in several pieces. 
Put into a kettle and cover with three 
quarts of cold water. Bring slowly to a 
boil. Skim, and then keep them at a sim- 
mering point of 180° Fahrenheit for three 
or four hours. Strain, and stand aside to 
cool. When cold remove any fat that may 
have come to the surface, turn out the jelly, 
and remove the sediment from the bottom. 
Put the jelly back into the kettle; add a 
piece of stick cinnamon about six inches 
long, broken into pieces, the grated rind 
of a lemon, two cups of sugar, a blade of 
mace, and a bay leaf. Beat the whites of 
two eggs slightly ; mix them with the jelly ; 
then add the juice of three lemons. Bring 
the whole to the boiling point and boil rapidly 
for five minutes. Cover, and stand on the 
back part of the stove for five minutes to 
settle, and strain through three thicknesses 



240 Cooking for the Sick 

of cheesecloth, or a flannel bag. This is 
one of the most difficult of all things to 
make. The jelly should be brilliantly clear, 
and will be so if you use a sufficient quan- 
tity of the whites of eggs mixed with the 
jelly before it is hot^ and then boil as di- 
rected. If not clear after the first strain- 
ing, strain again. Calf's-foot jelly is both 
nourishing and appetizing. 

The Most Nutritious of Semi-solid Foods 

A MOST excellent food which is easily 
digested is prepared by making a pint of 
beef tea as directed. Put two ounces of 
sago into one pint of milk in a double 
boiler. AUow it to soak for twenty min- 
utes; then put it over the fire and cook 
slowly for about thirty minutes, until the 
sago is perfectly clear. Take it from the 
fire ; add the pint of beef tea and the yolks 
of two eggs slightly beaten. Add half a 
teaspoonful of celery salt, and stand the 
mixture at once in a cold place. 

To reheat food for invalids stand the cup 
containing it in another of boiling water, 
and stir carefully until quite hot. A second 



and Convalescent 241 

cooking will coagulate the albumen, destroy 
the food value of the dish, and render it 
indigestible. Four tablespoonfuls of this 
food would form a good meal for a sick 
or convalescing patient. This food cannot 
be used in cases of typhoid. 

Making Milk more Palatable to the Invalid 

Ik cases of sickness where milk sgems to 
be the proper food, and the flavor is disa- 
greeable to the patient, it may be changed 
by adding a blade of mace, a clove, or a 
little nutmeg — all, of course, to be care- 
fully strained out before the milk is used. 
Plum porridge may be only slightly thick- 
ened and used the same as milk. In feed- 
ing a typhoid patient, milk and barley water 
are the accepted foods. 

To make plum porridge, select twelve 
fine raisins and split them in halves. Put 
them into a double boiler with one quart of 
milk; cover, and bring to the Pasteuriz- 
ing point, — 165° Fahrenheit, — which re- 
tain uniformly for at least fifteen minutes. 
Moisten two teaspoonf uls of arrowroot with 
a little cold milk ; add it to the hot milk. 

16 



242 Cooking for the Sick 

Now increase the heat of the milk suffi- 
ciently to cook the starch. Stir until it 
begins to thicken; strain carefully and put 
it aside to cool. 

Barley "Water and Sago Oruel 

Wash two ounces of pearled barley, put 
in a granite saucepan, cover with cold 
water, scald, bring to a boU, and drain. 
Eeturn it to the saucepan ; add two quarts 
of cold water, bring to boiling point, and 
sinuner gently until reduced to one quart. 
Strain and add a quarter of a teaspoonful 
of salt, and stand at once in a cold place. 
This is to be used with milk in proportions 
of one-third barley water to two-thirds 
milk. 

To make sago gruel, put one tablespoon- 
ful of sago into one quart of cold water. 
Soak for half an hour. Cook gently for 
thirty minutes, and strain through a fine 
sieve. If this is to be served warm put 
into the serving-bowl a block of sugar, two 
table spoonfuls of whipped cream, and just 
the suspicion of the grated yellow rind of 
a lemon. Pour in half a pint of the hot 



and Convalescent 243 

gruel, and serve at once. Where a greater 
amount of nourishment is needed this may 
be made from milk instead of water. It 
may also be flavored with raisins, bay 
leaves, or a blade of mace. Tapioca or 
manioca may be used in the place of sago. 

Making Toast and Toast Water 

By toasting bread a portion of the starch 
is changed into a form of sugar. Conse- 
quently, if the bread is toasted to the very 
centre, crisp and dry, it is partly digested 
food. Where people are ill and mastica- 
tion becomes difficult, the toast may be 
softened with milk. The milk should be 
heated and poured over the toast at the 
very last moment. If butter is to be added 
spread it over the toast while it is warm, 
not hot, and pour over the hot milk. This 
will prevent the heating of the butter to 
any very great degree, thereby making the 
toast more digestible. Bread may be toasted 
over the fire or in the oven. 

To make toast water, put a piece of 
brown toast into a glass of boiling water; 
cover for thirty minutes, strain and cool. 



^44 Cooking for the Sick 

When Cooking Eggs for the Sick 

Eggs are not acceptable in all forms of 
disease. The convalescing typhoid patient 
is frequently " set back" by an ill^-cooked 
soft-boiled or poached egg, where the albu- 
men is too much coagulated. The stomach 
digestion being weak and impaired, is insuf- 
ficient to thoroughly attack and break down 
the hardened portion of the white. It 
passes into the duodenum, the seat of the 
disease, and frequently becomes fastened 
in an ulcer, causing severe trouble, perhaps 
death. 

Preparing Frothed or Wliipped Eggs 

Separate one egg, keeping the yolk 
whole in one-half the shell while you beat 
the white to a stiff froth. Heap the white 
in a dainty bowl or egg-cup, make a little 
well in the centre, drop in the yolk, stand 
the whole in a saucepan containing a little 
boiling water; cover the saucepan and 
cook one minute. Serve in the bowl with 
a tiny bit of butter and a grain of salt. 

To make eggnog, separate one egg, beat 



and Convalescent 245 

the white to a stiff froth; add the yolk, 
beat again, and pour over it half a pint 
of scalding milk, beating aU the while. 
Turn rapidly for a minute from one vessel 
to another. Use either warm or cold. 



Canniitd ana Prmrvitig. 

In tills volume Mrs* Rorer disatsses at greater 
kngth than 2s allowed in tiie limits of her work on 
codling in genentl, the canning and preserving of 
fruits and vegetables^ with the kindred subjects of 
marmalades, butters, fruitlellies and syrups, drying 
and pickling* As in her Cook Book, the recipes are 
clearly and simply s^iven, while an exhaustive 
index affords easy reference to every subject* 

12mo, tHth index, cloth covers, 75 cents ; 
paper covers, 40 cents, 

l)ot meatber Disbei. 

Its name tells the whole story* It is the only 
book of the kind* Hot weather seems to suspend 
the inventive faculty of even the b^ housekeepers, 
and at a season when the appetite needs every nelp 
and encouragement this book will be found of the 
greatest use* FttU of suggestions for tempting and 
dainty dishes, with recipes for presenting the sub- 
stantial in palatable forms* 

12mo, with index, cloth covers, 75 cents ; 
paper covers, 40 cents. 

l)otiie Catiay making. 

A veritable book of sweets, full of choice recipes, 
with complete instructions for making the many 
delicacies that delight both young and old* It is the 
result of careful practice in teaching beginners how 
to make attractive, wholesome, and palatable varie- 
ties of home-made candies* The excellency of the 
redpes consists in their simplicity and faithfulness 
to minutiae* 

12nio, with index, cloth covers, 75 cents ; 
paper covers, 40 cents. 



Six £mie Cookery Books. 

By Mrs* S* T* Rorer* A set of cbarming and 
beau&ful vokunes* designed to meet the special 
wants of a ntunerous claiss of housekeepers who are 
given to entertaining, and are so often at a loss to 
know what and how to prepare for their guests. 

There are six volumes: 

eolotiial Rcciycs. 

I)0W to Use a CiMfing DisD. 

Tif teen Dew mays for Oystcr$« 

Cwenty Quick Soups. 

SandwiclKs. 

Dainties. 

24mo, each volume bound in a separate 
color of beautiful linen cloth : sold separ' 
ately ; 25 cents per volume. 



Sold by all booksellers ; or sent by mail, 
on receipt price; we pay postage. 

ARNOLD & CO., Philadelphia. 






t t 



.««*^'i 




fill 

ill 



8 



IF*' 
I 



III: 



l> I! *< 
llilllili 

032919'«990075 



