


TREASURES 

NEW AND OLD 



"Xo.v can Hue without love, 
You can live without books, 
Bui civilized man 
Cannot Hue without cooks." 



HA 




v 



THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 



IS 



Fil 

m. M. V- -^ 33.^ ^- . 



i iauu 



mpany 



113=113% So. Spring St. 
Los Angeles, Gal. 



I 



TEL. MAIN 398 



ALTHOUSE FRUIT CO. 



For Fancy Mountain Fruit and Foot= 
hill Vegetables 

All Our Vegetables Grown and Irrigated with Pure Water Only 

WE SHIP TO ALL POINTS 

FREE DELIVERY ^ OPEN ALL NIGHT 



213-215 West Second Street 



Los Angeles, Cal. 



^ -4p- < 



TENTS 

Made to Sell or Rent. 
The most improved, 
convenient and inex- 
pensive. 




AWNINGS 

That are pretty, handy 
and durable the sort 
that don't cost much. 




CAMPING 

SUPPLIES 

Of every description. 
Camping Outfits a spe- 
cialty. 



SUMMER FURNITURE-NECEssiTiES 



Among all this display 
the most tempting ar- 
ticle is our new 

LAWN 
SWING 

It is made of best hard- 
wood, with wrought- 
iron supports, and put 
together by the best 
skilled workmen. 

The movement is au- 
tomatic ; foot-rest and 
back are adjustable. 

We are Sole Agents 





(Height 8ft. 6 in.; Ground Space 5x9 ft.) 



THEN THERE ARE 

HAMMOCKS 

That are" faultless in shape, in size, in 
colors, in make and in price. A most va- 
ried and inviting selection. 



W. ft HOEGtE, 

130-136 SOUTH IU0IN ST. 



MUSSELS, COCKLES, CLAMS TELEPHONE 
DRESSED FISH MAIN 1284 
POULTRY AND GAME 



Levy's Oyster and Fish 
...Parlors... 

Ill to 117 West Third Street 



BUD HLIFflBNIH SHELL OYSTEBS 



The above goods can be bought here and delivered free of charge 

CHRISTOPHER & SPARKS 



ARE SELLING THEIR JUSTLY 
CELEBRATED 



At $1.00 per Gallon 



THEY ARE THE CATERERS 



They make a specialty of their Fine French Candies, in i, 2, 3, 4 or 5 

pound boxes 

241 South Spring Street Los Angeles, Cal. 



3 

THE BRILLIANCY OF, 



jy's Cut Glas, 



Is not equalled by any manufacturer of similar 
goods in the world. During the World's Fair Ex- 
hibition held at Chicago, several of the famous 
European factories, and also the largest domestic 
manufacturers were represented, and the First 
Prize was awarded to LIBBEY'S 



fl. F. VOULM&R & 60. 




116 S. SPRING ST. LOS ANGELES, CAL. 



325 South Spring St. 



HEADQUARTERS FOR- 



Indian Baskets, Blankets and Pottery 

MEXICAN DRAWN WORK, ZARAPES 
WAX FIGURES AND. HAND-CARVED 
LEATHER GOODS" ^ 

Opals, piligiree and Souvenir* Spoons 



CALIFORNIA SOUVENIRS OF ALL KINDS 



DRUGS 



That are PUREST and 
Prices the Lowest, take 
your Prescriptions to 

OFF & VAUGHN 
THE DRUGGISTS 

99 

N. E. Cor. Fourth and Spring Sts. 




Lei's go to Male's 

HML-B'S 

The shopping Emporium for Los Angeles--the 
Mecca of prudent, thrifty, economical women. 
Summer Fabrics are especially inviting now. 

107-109 /N. SP-RI/SG ST. 
Los Angeles 



Los Angeles Furniture Co. 
FURNITURE, GHRPETS RHD DIMES 



225-227-229 SOUTH BROADWAY 
Opposite City Hall 



Telephone Main 13 



Los Angeles, Cal. 



S. 



Diamonds, GUatehes 



CLOCKS AND SILVERWARE 

1O9 S. Spring St. Los Angeles, Cal 



Too many cooks spoil the broth, 
Bad tailors spoil the cloth. 



...WE HANDLE ONLY RIGHT MADE GOODS... 



London flo-thing 

119-125 North Spring Street 



BOOKSELLERS ffl STATIONERS 

DEALERS IN 

BLANK BOOKS AND COMMERCIAL STATIONERY 

ARCHITECTS' AND SURVEYORS' SUPPLIES 

139 SOUTH SPRING STREET 

TEL. MAIN 649 LOS ANGELES, CAL. 



Speeial Notice 



EAT 

MEEK'S BREAD 

TELEPHONE 51 TELEPHONE 51 

Tally-Ho Stables and Carriage Co. 

INCORPORATED 

FINEST LIKE OF LIVERY STOCK IN THE CITY 

w 

ELEGANT TALLY-HO'S HACKS AND COUPES 

The only Fire-Proof Stables in the City. Orders Promptly Filled Day or Night. 
Offices at HOTELS HOLLENBECK AND NADEAU 

107-109-111 North Broadway Los Angeles, Cal. 



ar Cloak aind Suit Hoiase 

LADIES' OUTER GARMENTS 

rg, JACKETS SUITS WRAPPERS ^fa 

^ CAPES WAISTS BATH SUITS *& 

217 S. Spring Street 

Adjoining Hollenbeck Motel 

TEL. BLACK 1532 Bet. Second and Third Sis. 

SENOUR'S FLOOR PAINT 

DRIES HARD OVER NIGHT 

Jlfc 

TELEPHONE 1143 



451 S. Spriog St. 

WHEDON & SPRENG CO, 



IFine Stationery '"UTsdding 

Tally (Lards Salting (Lards 

2K"arid ^Decorated l?lace (Lards 

3/Coruograras and (Lrcsts 

WILCOX BUILDING 
204 SOUTH SPRING STREET LOS ANGELES, CAL. 

JOB DESMOND ED. S. SHATTUCK 

SHATTUCK & DESMOND 

SUCCESSOR* TO 

THE CROSS "S" FUEL AND FEED CO. 



WHOLESALE AND RETAIL 



Hay and Grain, Wood and Coal 

TEL. WEST 211 

1227 Figueroa St., bet. Twelfth and Pico Los Angeles, Cal 




TREASURES 




Now good digestion wait on appetite, 

And health on both. 

Macbeth. 



COMPILED BY 

FIVE EARNEST WORKERS 



LOS ANGELES, CAL. 
1898 



INDEX. 



Beverages ... .... ... ... 55 

Breads .... ... ... .... .... 30 

Cake .... ... ... ... 34 

Candy .... ... .... .... ... 58 

Cookies ... ... ... ... 40 

Entrees .... ... ... ... ... 15 

Fish ... ... ... ... 13 

Fruits ... ... ... ... .... 51 

Light Dessert .... .... ... 46 

Pickles .... .... .... ... ... 53 

Pies ... ... 45 

Puddings .... ... .... ... 42 

Relishes ... ... ... ... 28 

Salads ... ... ... ... ..-25 

Soups ... ... ... ... ii 

Spanish Recipes .... .... ... ... 48 



PREFACE. 

* 

It is easier to waste than to accumulate the means of living. 

Simplicity and economy, so far as these pertain to domestic 
science, are nearly synonymous terms. 

' ' Basy processes of cooking and the development of nutri- 
tious food from inexpensive materials ' ' are phrases expressive of 
the present tendency of thought and study in domestic science. 

To interest all our readers, to incite many of them to better 
effort in matters that pertain to more wholesome and happier 
ways of cooking, is our purpose and our highest aspiration. 
An ideal condition would be one in which the tables of the rich 
and poor alike are furnished with an abundance of wholesome 
food, simply and economically prepared, and with excess in 
nothing. There is a simplicity that is elegant, and a plainness 
that is ornate. BOSTON COOKING SCHOOL. 



How to Cook Husbands. 



Make a clear steady fire out of love, neatness and cheerful- 
ness. Set him as near this as seems to agree with him. If he 
sputters and fizzes do not be anxious. Some husbands do this 
until they are quite done. Add a little sugar in form of what 
confectioners call kisses, but no vinegar or pepper on any ac- 
count. Do not stick any sharp instrument into him to see if he 
is becoming tender. Stir him gently ; watch the while lest he 
lie too flat and close to the kettle and become useless. You 
cannot fail to know when he is done. If thus treated you will 
find him digestible, agreeing nicely with you and the children ; 
and he will keep as long as you want, unless you become careless 
and set him in too cold a place. MRS. R. M. BEU,. 



sours. 



HINTS FOR SOUPS. 

Salt, pepper, clove, mace, allspice, cayenne. Bouquet, a dark 
rich liquid, especially prepared for flavoring soups, adds a rich 
color. 

Mustard, a pinch of seeds. Aromatic seeds, celery, caraway, 
celery salts. 

Herbs, thyme, summer savory, marjoram, bay leaves, mint, 
curry. 

Catsups and sauces may be used in a general way. 

Rice, sago, pearl barley, fine hominy, farina, vermicelli, 
macaroni for meat soups. The first three, half a cupful to three 
quarts of soup. 

The German soup powders can be purchased at any of the 
leading grocers. Season with butter, pepper and salt. Lentil 
soup is improved by celery salt ; julienne by bouquet. These 
soups have a slight flavoring of onion. One package makes 
a full quantity for six or eight persons. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. 

Cut into small pieces the green portions from three heads of 
celery, making, in all, twelve or fourteen stalks. Cover with a 
pint of cold water, bring slowly to boiling point and simmer 
gently for half an hour. Drain and press through a colander, 
using as much of the celery as you can press through. Add to 
this one pint of milk. Put the whole into a double boiler. Rub 
together one tablespoonful of butter and two of flour, and stir them 
carefully into the soup. Stir and cook until smooth. Add a 
teaspoonful of celery, salt, a dash of white pepper, and the soup 
will be ready to serve. 



12 CHOICE RECIPES. 



CLAM SOUP. 

One dozen clams simmered in their own juice for fifteen 
minutes ; press out all the juice and reject the clams ; add the 
juice to a sauce made as follows : into a pint and a half boiling 
milk stir a dessertspoonful each of flour and butter well blended 
together ; stir until it is smooth, add the clam juice, stir well 
again, remove to a cooler part of the range, and when ready to 
serve stir in the beaten yolk of an egg that has been mixed with 
a quarter cup of the soup. The egg will curdle if allowed to boil. 
No salt is needed with clams, but a little pepper, dash of cay- 
enne and a little mace may be added if liked. 

If a cupful of the above puree is saved it is excellent to use 
between the layers of scalloped clams. 

Miss MABEL LUITWIELER. 

CORN SOUP. 

One-half can. green corn, boil ^ hour, put through a colan- 
der ; take i tablespoonful of butter and i tablespoonful of flour 
and put in a saucepan over the fire and stir together ; then put in 
the corn and i cup of sweet milk and season with salt and pepper. 

Miss LILIAN VOSBURGH. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Boil enough Irish potatoes to make three cupfuls when 
mashed ; whip them light and keep hot ; into two quarts of 
boiling water shred a small onion, two stalks of refuse celery 
and three sprigs of parsley. Cook until the vegetables are soft, 
put them through a colander with the water in which they were 
boiled ; then pass the potatoes through the colander into the 
same pot, return to fire, season with salt and pepper and add four 
tablespoons of butter rubbed to a cream with two tablespoons of 
flour. Miss LILIAN VOSBURGH. 

SALMON SOUP. 

Simmer for fifteen minutes one can salmon and three cups 
water ; strain, add three cups hot milk ; season highly with salt, 
pepper and a little butter ; remove scum which forms in cooking 
and serve very hot. If desired slightly thick, roll a few oyster 
crackers very fine and put in. MRS. F. W. FLINT. 



CHOICB RECIPES. 13 



SPANISH SOUP. 

Two large onions, ^ dozen small chili peppers, i can toma- 
toes, i large turnip, ^ can corn, 2 carrots; chop all vegetables 
fine; put in i quart of water, boil until almost done, add toma- 
toes and corn and boil five minutes longer, then add i tablespoon 
of beef extract, stir until it dissolves, add i teaspoonful Wor- 
cestershire sauce and tablespoon catsup ; salt to taste. 

MRS. N. T. POWEU,. 

TOMATO BISQUE. 

One quart tomatoes, i quart water, i teaspoonful soda, i 
quart milk, butter, salt and pepper to taste. Cook tomatoes till 
tender, put through colander, add milk and season. 

MRS. A. G. WRIGHT. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Twenty-five chopped clams, 6 sliced onions, 10 sliced pota 
toes ; try out three slices of salt pork, cut in dice in the pot in 
which you make the chowder, fry brown, and then on that put a 
layer of onions, then potatoes, then clams, and repeat till all is 
used ; i quart of water and all the clam juice ; no salt, little 
pepper ; cook slowly two hours, stir very little and carefully. 

MRS. G. W. PERCY. 



FISH. 



CRAB A LA REY. 

Take a can of tomatoes, cook with a good size onion and a 
piece of green pepper the size of a butter bean ; cook this two or 
three hours, then rub it through a colander. Select a small crab, 
shredding very fine ; mix with the crab a cup of cream and then 
stir this with a little red pepper into the tomatoes ; let it all come 
to a boil and then add the butter size of an egg. Serve on small 
pieces of toast on very hot plates. Medium-sized crab, i can 
tomatoes, i good size onion, green pepper size of butter bean,, 
i cup sweet cream, red pepper, butter size of an egg. 

MRS. HUGH MACNEIL. 



1.4 CHOICE RECIPES. 



DELMONICO'S COD. 

Delmonico's receipt for stuffing baked haddock or cod : 
Take three slices of salt pork, cut into dice, fry with six small 
onions chopped or sliced fine ; when this is fried not burned 
pour in one half cup of milk, stirring it carefully to scald it in 
the fat ; use bread crumbs enough to make it stiff ; add salt, 
pepper and marjoram to season it highly ; to this add one beaten 
egg and stuff the fish. Lay narrow strips of pork over the fish 
to make foundation for the gravy, which is water, thickened with 
brown flour, seasoned with catsup. What remains will make a 
very excellent hash for next day's breakfast, if heated with the 
gravy. MRS. J. M. HENDERSON. 

CRAB CREOLE. 

Two crabs, ^3 can tomatoes, 4 small onions (leeks), ^ pint 
cream, 4 green peppers (long), butter size of an egg ; chop onion 
and peppers and brown in butter ; cook tomatoes and strain, add 
to the above, then the crab shredded, and lastly the cream. Let 
it all come to a boil. MRS. E. H. HOLMES. 

CRAB SCALLOP. 

Meat of i crab chopped fine, 4 soda crackers powdered, i cup 
of cream, 2 tablespoons of butter, a dash of salt and pepper, the 
whole mixed and put back into the shell and browned in the 
>oven. 

CLAM SCALLOP. 

The meat of two pounds of large clams chopped fine, 2 soda 
crackers powdered, salt, pepper, 2 tablespoons of butter, ^ cup 
of milk, the whole mixed and put back in the shells and browned 
in the oven. MRS. BURT ESTES HOWARD. 

PICKLED FISH. 

Take what is left from dinner, bone carefully, lay in a deep 
dish ; boil vinegar, season to taste with mace or cloves, white 
pepper ; strain the boiled vinegar over the fish ; good for tea or 
better if it stands until next day. 

Cold boiled, baked or broiled fish may be made into deviled 
fish, fish croquettes, a la creme, or may be served on lettuce 
leaves with mayonnaise dressing for a luncheon salad. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 15 



ESCALLOPED SALMON. 

Pick over and bone carefully one can of salmon ; butter a 
baking dish, place a layer of salmon, cover with grated bread 
crumbs, season liberally with butter, pepper and salt ; fill the 
dish with alternate layers, the last layer of bread crumbs, cover 
with rich milk ; bake to brown. 

MRS. R. B. ASHLEY. 



ENTREES 



SPINACH OMELET. 

Parboil three bunches of spinach, chop fine, try in butter a 
few minutes, add three slices of bread, having been soaked in 
milk, two cups of milk, four eggs ; beat white of eggs separately ; 
salt to taste ; bake thirty minutes. 

MRS. A. P. WEST. 

. LOBSTER CUTLETS. 

Chop meat of lobster fine, put tablespoonful of butter in 
saucepan, fry small onion, stir in heaping tablespoonful of flour, 
add a cup of milk ; when it thickens add the lobster; salt, pepper, 
butter and nutmeg to taste ; boil three minutes, add yolks of two 
eggs, some chopped parsley and lemon juice ; when cold, shape 
like small chops, roll in crumbs, then in egg, then in crumbs and 
fry. Miss MABEL LUITWIELER. 

BANANA FRITTERS. 

One egg, one tablespoon of milk, one teaspoon baking powder, 
flour enough to make a batter (as thick as pancake batter), and a 
little salt ; beat the egg well, add milk and salt, mix the flour 
and baking powder, then mix all altogether ; dip thick slices of 
banana in the batter and fry in boiling lard. 

MiSS E. C. McCLUNG. 



1 6 CHOICE RECIPES. 



HAMBURG STEAK. 

One pound chopped beef, ^ cup milk, }^ cup rolled cracker, i 
tablespoon of finely chopped onion, pepper and salt, i egg; stir 
briskly for 10 minutes, make in small cakes and fry, thicken the 
gravy and pour over meat when done. I/. C. B. 

TERRAPIN CHICKEN. 

For this dish use i quart of cold cooked chicken ; cut in very 
small pieces the cooked liver of i or 2 chickens, 3 hard boiled 
eggs, the yolks of two uncooked eggs, i cupful of chicken stock, 
i cupful of cream, a slight grating of nutmeg, YZ of a teaspoon- 
ful of pepper, i level tablespoonful of salt, 4 tablespoonfuls of 
sherry, 3 tablespoonfuls of butter, 2 of flour, i teaspoonful of 
lemon juice ; chop the chicken liver and hard boiled eggs rather 
coarse ; add the chopped mixture to the chicken and sprinkle 
the salt, pepper and nutmeg over all these engredients. Now 
put the butter in a frying pan and set the pan on the stove ; add 
the flour to the melted butter and stir the mixture until it becomes 
smooth and frothy ; then draw the pan back where there is less 
heat and gradually add the stock. Put it again on the hot part 
of the stove and stir the contents for three minutes, then add the 
cream, after reserving four tablespoonfuls ; stir for one minute 
and then put the chicken mixture into the pan and simmer for 
ten minutes. During this period beat well the yokes of the un- 
cooked eggs and put the cold cream with them ; taste the chicken 
mixture, as it may require a little more salt ; pour the beaten 
yolks and the cream into the frying pan and stir for one minute. 
On removing the pan from the fire at the end of that time add 
the sherry and lemon juice and serve at once. 

MRS. J. W. McKiNi,EY. 

CHICKEN AND OYSTERS. 

Chop fine i boiled chicken, i quart raw oysters, i handful 
chopped celery ; make a sauce of i cup milk, the liquor of the 
oysters and i tablespoon of butter thickened with cornstarch 
to a consistency of gravy ; cover the bottom of baking dish with 
rolled crackers, add chicken and oysters, then sauce, and cover 
with cracker ; bake, covering the dish in the oven. 

MRS. J. G. MOSSIN. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 1 7 



CHICKEN TURBIT. 

Quantity for i chicken : Two tablespoons of butter and flour 
mixed in i pint of sweet milk and cooked the same as gravy ; 
prepare chicken same as for salad, with i can of mushrooms 
added ; then put altogether in baking dish and bake half an hour 
with rolled cracker and butter over the top. 

MRS. HOWARD M. SALE. 

CREAMED CHICKEN. 

One chicken (about 3 pounds), i small onion, i large table- 
spoon flour, i tablespoon butter, i coffee cup cream, pepper and 
salt to taste ; boil chicken until tender, cool, skim and cut into 
small bits as for salad ; take the cream and heat and add to it the 
flour well mixed in the butter ; let this stand on the stove until it 
thickens, and then add the onion (grated), chicken and seasoning; 
put in a bake dish and cover with bread crumbs and bits of butter 
and bake twenty minutes. Miss M. McCLUNG. 

CROQUETTES. 

Mince cold chicken or turkey very fine, season with pepper,, 
salt, nutmeg and a very little onion (grated) ; take a large table- 
spoonful of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and half tumbler of 
cream; boil and stir into the meat ; when cold take a spoonful at 
a time and dip it into the beaten yolk of an egg, then into pow- 
dered cracker crumbs ; fry in sweet lard. 

MRS. R. M. BELL. 

"TEXICUST." 

Five pounds of tender beef with a small piece of suet ; chop 
this fine ; i ^ large cups of raw rice and 2 good size onions ; chop 
the onions and mix with the raw rice and meat, season with 
pepper and salt to taste ; i large head of cabbage ; take off each 
leaf separately and wilt them in a pot of boiling water ; make 
the meat in small rolls and wrap each one of the little rolls or 
balls in a cabbage leaf and tie them with a string ; put some beef 
bones in the bottom of the pot (to keep the balls from burning) , 
then lay in the balls ; fill the pot nearly full of warm water and boil 
at least three hours ; add more water if necessary ; when done re- 
move the strings from the balls and thicken the gravy and serve 
in a gravyboat. The balls are just as good warmed over the 
second day. MRS. HUGH MACNEIL. 



1 8 CHOICE RECIPES. 



PORK TENDERLOIN. 

Cut tenderloin open ; make dressing same as for turkey ; place 
between the two pieces, tie together, place in your self-basting 
pan with water, butter, salt and pepper and cook one hour ; serve 
the gravy which forms in cooking ; make dressing of bread 
crumbs, moistened in a little milk, and season with salt, pepper, 
pinch of thyme and very liberal amount of butter. Veal cutlets 
may be used in the same way. MRS. J. G. MOSSIN. 

MEAT IN CUPS. 

One pint cold roast beef, one gill stock, two tablespoons bread 
crumbs ; put on fire, bring to boiling point, remove from fire, add 
2 well-beaten eggs, teaspoon of salt and half teaspoon of pepper ; 
put in cups, greased with oil or butter ; stand in a pan half filled 
with boiling water and bake in a quick oven 20 minutes ; cover 
with tomato sauce and serve. This quantity will fill six cups. 

MRS. J. G. MOSSIN. 

VEAL SCALLOP. 

Chop veal, butter baking dish ; first layer of veal; layer 
toasted bread crumbs, wet with milk or gravy; alternate layers 
until the dish is full ; sprinkle with celery salt, cover with beaten 
egg, add bits of butter, and bake half an hour. 

MRS. W. CURRER. 
SHEPHERD'S PIE. 

Cut cold mutton in dice, with its gravy, freed from fat ; season 
with butter, pepper and salt ; cover with layer of peeled sliced 
fresh tomato ; over this spread a thick layer of finely mashed 
potatoes ; if brushed with white of egg to brown will add to its 
appearance. MRS. W. CURRER. 

SAUTE' KIDNEYS. 

Cut up half an onion and brown it in a pan with an ounce o^ 
butter ; slice a calf s kidneys, toss about over a slow fire in the 
pan ; add salt, pepper and one-half pint of red or white wine and 
one piece of cut sugar ; simmer until tender ; dissolve a teaspoon 
of flour in cold water, add to the dish ; toast a few slices of 
bread, trim them neatly, place them on and around the dish, the 
kidneys over them and serve at once. 

MRS. HUGH MACNEII,. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 1 9 



VEAL LOAF. 

Two pounds of veal chopped fine ; piece of butter size of egg, 
six tablespoons of rolled crackers, one teaspoon of salt, half tea- 
spoon pepper, two eggs, two tablespoons of water ; mix altogether 
and mould in a loaf ; pour melted butter over the top and bake 
slowly one hour. MRS. HOWARD SALE. 

MEAT SOUFFLE'. 

Two cups of minced meat or chicken, yolks of two eggs, 
whites of two eggs, red pepper, one-half teaspoonful salt, one- 
half teaspoonful chopped parsley, two cups white sauce ; mix the 
meat and the white sauce, beat in the yolks, then the seasoning, 
and last of all the whites (well beaten) ; bake fifteen minutes in a 
hot oven. MRS. J. S. VOSBURG. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

One pint of cream, scalded ; melt two even tablespoons of 
butter, and when boiling (or bubbling) add two tablespoonfuls of 
cornstarch (or four of flour) ; stir quickly until well mixed, then 
beat in one-third of the milk, then the second third, then add 
this quickly to the last third ; let it all cook until thoroughly 
smooth and thick ; stir all the time. Let it cool a little before 
adding to any kind of fish or meat. 

MRS. H. MACNEII*. 

REAL ENGLISH YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 
One pint of milk, 4 tablespoons of flour mixed in part of the 
milk to a smooth batter ; then add the remainder, with a little 
salt and two well-beaten eggs ; bake in a well-buttered pan 
thirty minutes, or in the pan with the roast, placing the roast on 
some bones or little drip stand. MRS. J. S. SLAUSSON. 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Boil, mash and season sweet potatoes with salt, pepper and 
cream ; add the whites of one or two eggs, according to the 
quantity of potatoes used, and cream the mixture ; make into 
pats, dip each into beaten yolks of the eggs and roll them in 
sifted bread crumbs ; fry brown. 

Miss KATE SAPPINGTON. 



20 CHOICE RECIPES. 



OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

One-half dozen small oysters, three drops of tobasco sauce, 
quarter teaspoon salt, one teaspoon of Worcestershire, one 
of tomato catsup, and juice of one lemon. 

MRS. HOWARD SALE. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT. 

Four medium-sized egg plants, cut in half; one egg, three 
hard boiled eggs, cold ; three handfuls of bread crumbs, one 
slice of onions, two or three cloves of garlic, salt, red pepper and 
pinch of sage ; soak the egg plant in strong salt water several 
hours, scrape egg plant out of shell and chop with the above 
ingredients, excepting the boiled egg and raw egg ; fry in a little 
butter for five minutes, break in the fresh egg, add the chopped 
boiled egg, then fill the cases, then cover with bread crumbs and 
bake. MRS. HUGH MACNEIL. 

SWEET POTATOES IN THE PAN. 

Steam sweet potatoes until they are soft, but not broken ; peel 
and slice them ; boil two cups of sugar and one and one-half cups 
of water into a thick syrup ; stir into it one-half cup of butter ; 
put the sliced potato into a deep baking dish and pour the syrup 
over them ; sprinkle bits of butter over them and bake to brown 
top. Miss KATE SAPPINGTON. 

SWEET POTATO PATE. 

Mash six sweet boiled potatoes, add two eggs, two table- 
spoons flour and enough sweet milk to stir soft ; drop in well 
greased muffin rings or fry brown on hot griddle. 

Miss KATE SAPPINGTON. 

OYSTER PLANT. 

Wash and scrape and boil until tender ; take up and mash 
fine ; have ready a tablespoonful of butter, creamed with the 
yolk of an egg stirred in, seasoned with pepper, salt and a little 
mace ; for an ordinary quantity of the plant, use a teaspoon of 
salt, a saltspoon of pepper and a saltspoon of mace ; mix the 
mashed eggplant with seasoning, roll a spoonful at a time in 
flour and fry in butter. 

MRS. A. D. T. WHITNEY. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 21 



CANDIED SWEET POTATO. 

Peel and slice the raw potatoes and lay them in a deep baking 
tin, with butter, sugar and nutmeg, or any other spices pre- 
ferred, sprinkled among the slices ; add a little water and bake 
until the syrup is thick and the potatoes thoroughly done, mois- 
tening the top frequently, so that it does not become too dry ; 
peel and slice in half inch slices sweet potatoes that have been 
steamed until they are tender, but not broken ; put them in a 
baking dish, sprinkle with sugar and bits of butter ; pour over 
all one cup sweet cream and bake for fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Miss KATE SAPPINGTON. 

SNOW POTATO. 

After potatoes are boiled and steamed off rub them through a 
colander ; they will drop into the dish below in coiling strings, 
which will heap themselves up lightly ; pour into a hot dish and 
serve quickly. MRS. A. D. T. WHITNEY. 

OYSTERS AND MACARONI. 

Prepare as above, except to leave out cheese and mustard ; 
put layers of oysters with butter, pepper and salt ; instead of oys- 
ter juice use sweet milk, though not so much. This is very deli- 
cate and appetizing. Bake as in receipt above. 

MACARONI A LA MOLLINELLI. 

Two pounds of lean beef, one- half can tomatoes, one-half 
onion, one can fine mushrooms, cheese (Parmesan), mace ; cut 
the beef in small pieces and put over with only enough water to 
keep it from burning ; then add the tomatoes, onions (cut fine), 
salt and pepper, and when half done the mushrooms ; cook three 
hours ; boil the macaroni three full hours in hot water, with salt; 
when done put a layer on a large platter, then some of the 
dressing, which must first be passed through a fine sieve ; then 
add a good powdering of the cheese ; then the macaroni and so 
on, having on top the dressing and sprinkling of cheese. 

MRS. HUGH MACNEII,. 

H. O. CROQUETTES. 

Cut cold H. O. mush into croquette shapes, dip in beaten 
gg and roll in bread crumbs ; fry in deep lard, or in butter. 

MlSS LlU AN VOSBURGH. 



22 CHOICE RECIPES. 



EGG PLANT. 

Cut the plant in slices, lay in water, well salted, for an hour ; 
prepare cracker crumbs, seasoned with salt and pepper ; beat the 
yolks of two or three eggs ; wipe the slices of egg plant dry ; slip 
them in the egg, then in the crumbs, and fry in butter enough to 
turn. MRS. A. D. T. WHITNEY. 

MACARONI. 

Boil until tender, drain water off and lay macaroni about an 
inch deep in greased pan ; sprinkle with salt and pepper and a 
tiny bit of mustard, then small pieces of butter and cheese ; 
alternate this several times, having macaroni on top ; pour a tea- 
cup or less of sweet milk over all and bake. 



A Recipe for 
Saving Time and Temper 




Don't pour over a Cook-book. 
Don't stand over a stove. 
Save all that time and trou- 
ble by ordering your Cakes, 
Pies and other Dainty Bake- 
stuffs from us. 
We do our own baking. 
We employ the most skillful 
Cake-makers to be found. 
We use nothing but the best 
materials. 

In baking for all our custo- 
mers, we can do It a great 
deal better and a great deal 
cheaper than you can do it 
for yourself. 



H.JEVNE 



To Get the Best Results in Salad Making 
Use LA CRESCENTA Olive Oil. 



It Is absolutely PURE and 

made from the finest selected 

olives. 

We carry all the leading 

brands of Imported Oils, but 

good judges say 

LA CRESCENTA IS THE 
BEST." 

Quart bottles, 91.00 each or 
$10.50 per dozen. The next 
time >ou order olive oil try 
"La Crescenta." 



208-210 5. Spring St., Wilcox Bldg. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 25 



SALADS. 



FRUIT SALADS, WITH DRESSING. 
Fruit such as white grapes, apples or oranges may be mixed 
with mayonnaise and served on lettuce leaves. Shaddocks may 
be served on lettuce leaves, with French dressing, as a dinner 
salad. As the lining is bitter, cut into halves crosswise, remove 
pulp and seeds, and spread on the leaves. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Eight cold boiled potatoes sliced rather fine , eight olives cut 
small, half a cup of capers, three cucumbers or about same amount 
of celery, cut thin; half an onion cut fine, salt, white pepper, 
little lemon juice, mayonnaise dressing and, just before serving, a 
<:up of whipped cream, very thick and stiff. 

MRS. O. C. WHITNEY. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Boil four large potatoes with skins on ; when cool, remove skin 
and chop these with two onions ; then season with teaspoonful of 
pepper, dessertspoonful of salt, celery seed, made mustard and 
melted butter. Boil a custard of one pint of sour cream, small 
cup of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of sugar and three eggs ; pour 
over potatoes and stir lightly. Makes nearly two quarts. 

MRS. ELMER MCKEEVER. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Boil one chicken, allowing it to cool in the water in which it 
is boiled, as it will be more juicy and tender than when taken 
from the water at once. Remove the fat, skin and bones ; cut 
into small pieces and place in earthen bowl ; season with white 
vinegar, oil, salt and pepper, and set aside in ice chest. Cut two 
heads of tender, white celery into small pieces with a sharp knife 
and place in ice chest until serving. Make a mayonnaise dress- 
ing, mix chicken and celery together with half the dressing, 
arrange in a salad dish lined with lettuce leaves and pour over 
the remainder of dressing. Garnish with radishes cut to repre- 
sent flowers. Miss MABEL LUITWIELER. 



26 CHOICE RECIPES. 



WALDORF SALAD. 

Highly seasoned apple and celery, covered with mayonnaise, 
stirred in an equal quantity of whipped cream. May be served 
at dinner. 

WHOLE TOMATO SALAD. 

Take nice smooth tomatoes of uniform size, peel without 
breaking and take out inside with a small spoon ; chop fine some 
celery, lettuce, red peppers and cucumbers. Mix this with 
shrimps and mayonnaise and fill tomatoes. Decorate with rings 
cut from green peppers and a spoonfull of mayonnaise laid 
on top. MRS. F. WALTON. 

STRING BEAN SALAD. 

Take one and one-half pounds of string beans, string carefully 
and cut in as thin slices, lengthwise, as possible. Boil until 
tender ; drain and let stand until cool ; then add salt, pepper, a 
little grated onion, four tablespoonfuls of oil, two of vinegar, half 
a tablespoonful of water and the juice of a lemon. 

MRS. W. F. BOTSFORD. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Parboil oysters, chilling them on ice. Lay on lettuce leaves,, 
cover with mayonnaise mixed with finely chopped celery. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 
German Style. 

One-half dozen cucumbers, sliced as thinly as possible ; salt 
and pepper to taste ; add half of a small onion, sliced very thin ; 
add one cup of sour cream and one tablespoonful of vinegar. 

MRS. W. F. BOTSFORD. 

NUT SALAD. 

Blanch some English walnuts, then cook with a little stock ; 
drain ; serve on lettuce leaves, with French or mayonnaise 
dressing. 

APPLE SALAD. 

Take equal quantities of tart apples, blanched almonds and 
white celery ; chop rather coarse and mix with a small quantity 
of mayonnaise dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves, with mayonnaise 
on top. MRS. S. P. HUNT. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 27 



COOKED SALAD DRESSING. 

Six yolks of eggs, three teaspoonfuls of mustard, six tea- 
spoonfuls of sugar, eighteen tablespoon fuls of vinegar, eighteen 
tablespoonfuls of milk, six tablespoonfuls of oil, two even tea- 
spoonfuls of salt, a little cayenne pepper. Beat yolks of eggs, 
sugar and mustard together ; add vinegar, milk, oil and salt. 
Set in dish of boiling water until thickened, and add beaten whites 
of three eggs. Will keep for two weeks. MRS. DANSKIN. 

CREAM DRESSING. 

Heat a gill of good cream ; moisten a tablespoonful of corn- 
starch with a little cold milk, add it to the hot cream, cook a mo- 
ment, then stir in the yolks of two well-beaten eggs. Take from 
the fire, add a half-teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper and a 
tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon juice. This is palatable, and 
much more economical than mayonnaise dressing. 

CAULIFLOWER SALAD. 

Boil a head of cauliflower in a cloth ; remove the cloth, drain, 
sprinkle thoroughly with vinegar, cool. Serve with French 
dressing. All vegetable salads can be served on a leaf of lettuce. 
For lunches, dress the plate at the edge with nasturtium blossoms. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Cut the tops from one dozen oranges and scoop out pulp into 
a bowl ; add one small box red strawberries, one-half pound fresh 
cherries from which the seeds have been removed, one-half teacup 
preserved fruit of any kind and three bananas, sweetening to 
taste. Stir thoroughly together and fill the orange skins. Whip 
one pint of cream stiff, and on top of each filled orange place a 
large spoonful of the whipped cream. Serve on delicate lettuce 
leaves as first course at a dinner or luncheon. 

MRS. WM. KNIPPENBERG. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

One can of canned shrimps washed in cold water, dried with 
a soft towel. To every pint of shrimps allow nearly half a pint of 
mayonnaise dressing. Serve with lettuce. 

[MRS. ALMA CALKINS. 



28 CHOICE RECIPES. 



SHRIMP SALAD. 

Mix canned or fresh shrimps with a gill of mayonnaise, and 
serve on lettuce leaves. 

MOTTO. 

To make a salad dressing four persons are wanted : A spend- 
thrift for oil, a miser for vinegar, a counselor for salt and a mad- 
man to stir it up. Spanish Proverb. 



RELISHES. 



STUFFED PEPPERS. 

One-half dozen peppers, one cup bread crumbs, one cup of 
ground ham, three large tomatoes, butter size of an egg. Clean 
peppers out, but do not use pulp. Fill peppers with above mix- 
ture ; add salt and pepper. Before putting in to bake, rub over 
with cottolene or butter ; add a little water. 

MRS. W. O'DONOUGHUE. 

ORANGE STICKS. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of water. Cut orange peel in 
strips and let simmer in this syrup till tender. Take out and 
sprinkle with granulated sugar and let dry. Should be made the 
day before needed. MRS. S. C. BOGART. 

BAKED ONIONS. 

Parboil as many onions as required, place in an earthen dish ; 
salt and pepper ; cover with cracker crumbs ; butter size of an 
egg ; then add as much milk as will cover. Bake half an hour. 

MRS. F. T. BICKNELL. 

CHEESE SCALLOP. 

One pint of bread crumbs soaked in a quart of milk ; add butter 
size of an egg, three well-beaten eggs, one pint of grated cheese. 
Put all in a buttered dish, cover with cracker crumbs and bake 
twenty minutes. Miss WITHER. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 29 



PINEAPPLE JELLY. 

Soak one-half box of Knox gelatine in one pint of cold water 
about ten minutes, or until soft ; then add one pint boiling water, 
one and one-half cups of sugar, the juice of two lemons. Strain 
and pour into mold. When beginning to set, add one large cup 
of pineapple, cut in small pieces. Serve with whipped cream. 

MRS. W. Ross. 

JUNKET. 

One quart of milk, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one small cup 
of wine, one tablespoonful of liquid rennet. Warm the milk 
slightly, add the sugar and then the wine, then the rennet. Put 
a slight sprinkle of nutmeg over the top and stand in a cool place. 

MRS. HUGH MACNEIL. 

CREAM CHEESE. 
(Nice for tea or lunch.) 

Take one-quarter of a pound of cream cheese, cut up very fine 
and dissolve in a little milk over the fire. Have ready one egg, 
well beaten ; also have one teaspoonful of cornstarch dissolved in 
a little milk. Mix egg and cornstarch in more milk, making 
altogether one cupful, and stir quickly into the hot cheese and 
serve at once. MRS. G. P. GEHRING. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

Two ounces of flour, a little cayenne, three ounces of grated 
Parmesan, yolk of one egg. Mix the flour, salt and cheese to- 
gether and moisten with the egg. Work all to a smooth paste. 
Roll out on a board one-eighth of an inch thick, five inches wide 
and five inches long. Cut some of the paste in small rings, and 
some in strips. Place both on greased sheets of paper and bake 
in an oven 240 degrees Fahr. till a light brown. Put the straws 
in the rings like a bundle of sticks. MRS. R. M. BEIX. 

VANITY-AND-VEXATION-OF-SPIRIT. 
Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, add a little salt 
and stir in flour until thick enough to roll. Roll very thin and 
cut into strips an inch wide. Drop the strips into boiling lard 
and cook a few seconds. Should be white when done. 

MRS. WM. McKEEVER. 



30 CHOICE RECIPES. 



WELSH BOY. 

Two cups of grated cheese, one-half cup of milk, two eggs, a 
pinch of mustard and cayenne pepper, one-half teaspoonful of salt. 
Cook until smooth and spread over buttered slices of thin toast. 
Set in the oven to brown. Serve immediately. 

WELSH RARE-BIT. 

One pound of cheese, one tablespoonful of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of dry mustard, one teaspoonful of salt, a dash or two of 
red pepper, half a cup of beer or ale, scant. Shave your cheese 
into thin pieces, add all the dry ingredients, put the butter in a 
chafing-dish ; when melted, add cheese, etc. ; begin to stir ; when 
cheese begins to melt add the beer or ale, a little at a time, stirring 
.all the time until the mixture is smooth and stringy. Have ready 
your toast and hot plates and serve at once. This amount will 
make enough for eight slices of toast. If no chafing-dish is handy, 
anything will do, only be sure to make it over hot water. If you 
-do not, it will be tough. One-half cup of cream or milk may be 
used in place of beer. MRS. C. D. CHESSMAN. 

BACON FRITTERS. 

Fry small slices of bacon to a delicate crisp, then dip each 
slice into a batter made of egg, flour and milk ; after which again 
fry, slightly browning the sides. Miss WITHER. 



BREADS. 



REAL PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Two quarts of sifted flour, one teaspoonful of salt, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, not melted, but worked into the flour. Make 
a hole in the middle of the flour and put in a pint of luke warm 
scalded milk and one teacup of yeast. Set at 9 o'clock in the 
morning and at 12 o'clock mix well with tablespoon and let it 
rise until 4 o'clock ; then roll out one-fourth of an inch thick, 
cut with muffin ring, then fold in envelopes. Put in buttered 
tins and allow them to rise until 5:30 o'clock, when bake in a 
quick oven. MRS. HUGH MACNEIL. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 31 



A QUICK LOAF BREAD. 

Add six teaspoonfuls of baking powder and four quarts of 
whole wheat flour ; sift four times. Moisten quickly with cold 
water, using about one and a half quarts. It must be moist, yet 
at the same time sufficiently stiff to mold. Knead and mold 
quickly into four loaves. Brush with milk and bake in a moderate 
oven one hour. Cool the same as yeast bread. 

MRS. RORER. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Mix two cups of Yankee rye meal, one cup of granulated 
yellow Indian meal and one cup of whole wheat flour. Add a 
teaspoonful of salt, and sift. Dissolve a level teaspoonful of soda 
in about two tablespoonfuls of warm water ; add it to one and a 
half pints of thick, sour milk, or buttermilk. Then add to this 
one cup of molasses. When thoroughly blended pour it over the 
dry ingredients and mix thoroughly. Put into baking powder 
cans and steam one hour. Lift the covers, allowing the bread to 
cool, and at serving time bake for thirty minutes. 

MRS. RORER. 

POP-OVERS. 

Beat two eggs, without separating, until thoroughly mixed ; 
add one cup of milk. Put one cup of flour into another bowl ; 
add to it gradually the eggs and milk ; beat until smooth. Strain 
through an ordinary gravy strainer. Put at once into greased, 
hot gempans and bake in a moderately quick oven for forty-five 
minutes. If these are properly made and properly baked they 
should swell six times their original bulk, and may be used for 
breakfast or luncheon, or served with a liquid pudding sauce as a 
dessert. Whole wheat flour, if sifted three times, may be sub- 
stituted for white flour. Iron gempans insure better results than 
those made of lighter metals. MRS. RORER. 

CLIFTON GLUTEN ROLLS. 

Three cups sifted health flour, two teaspoons baking powder, 
one-half teaspoon of salt, two cups sweet milk. Mix all to 
light dough, heat and grease the tins and bake twenty-five 
minutes in a hot oven. MRS. M. J. BELL. 



32 CHOICE RECIPES. 



ASTOR HOUSE MUFFINS. 

One pound of flour, two ounces of butter, one ounce of sugar, 
one ounce of baking powder, two eggs, milk enough to make a 
soft dough. MRS. F. A. EASTMAN. 

BREAD STICKS. 

To make bread sticks, use either the whole wheat or white 
bread. At sponging time take about a tablespoonful of the 
sponge and roll it out under your hand in a long, round bit the 
size of your finger and the length of your bread stick pan. Put 
each one down in its place in the pan, stand in a warm place for 
thirty minutes, brush them with water and bake in a quick oven 
about fifteen minutes. Persons who are troubled with indiges- 
tion can eat bread sticks when any other form of bread would be 
objectionable. MRS. RORER. 

FRENCH TOAST. 

Heat in the spider a small lump of butter. Break an egg and 
beat it into half a cup of milk ; dip a slice of bread, covering both 
sides with the mixture, and fry. One egg should be enough for 
three small slices. . MRS. JEANNETTE STUART. 

HOE CAKE. 

Scald one-third of the meal with hot water ; add the rest of 
the meal, a handful of flour and salt to taste ; mix with cold water 
to the consistency of a very thick batter. Clean and grease old- 
fashioned "nigger hoe," spread the cake on it and pat it smooth.. 
Set on top of hot coals and when brown on bottom turn with 
knife and brown the other side. May be baked in spider or on. 
top of stove. MRS. WM. McKEEVER. 

SANDWICHES. 
(Named from Lord Sandwich.) 

Appropriate winter sandwiches are : Chicken, tongue, hamr 
beef, mutton, duck, celery, caviar. 

Made from fruits : Cherries, pineapples and gages blend. 
The sandwiches may be cut in different shapes or fingers. 
For crescents, use a biscuit-cutter. They can be halved. 
Fruits should be chopped. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 33 



WALNUT SANDWICHES. 

Shell half a pound of English walnuts. Put the kernels into 
a pint of boiling water ; boil for a minute ; drain, and cover with 
stock ; add a bay leaf, a few celery tops and a slice of onion. 
Cook gently for twenty minutes, drain and skim ; chop fine, add 
half a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of cayenne or paprica. 
Spread between thin slices of buttered bread. These are very 
nice served with lobster a la Newberg. 

MRS. J. W. McKiNLEY. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Chop cold, cooked chicken very fine. Pound until smooth, 
adding gradually enough thick, sweet cream to make a paste. 
To each pint add a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, a tea- 
spoonful of onion and a tablespoonful of lemon juice. Spread 
between thin slices of buttered bread. 

MRS. J. W. 



OLIVE SANDWICHES. 

Chop or cut into small pieces one quart of ripe, split olives. 
Mix lightly with one-half pint of mayonnaise dressing and the 
yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, rubbed to a paste with two table- 
spoonfuls of thick, sweet cream. Season with paprica and a little 
salt, unless the olives are very salt. 

MRS. J. W. McKiNLEY. 

ASH CAKE FOR PICNICS. 

Mix Indian meal with water and a little salt ; mix stiff enough 
to roll. Place in maize or cabbage leaves, rake out hot ashes and 
bake a golden brown. MRS. BURTON HARRISON. 

BROWN BREAD. 

One and a half cups sour milk, half a cup of molasses, half a 
teaspoonful of soda, graham flour enough to make a stiff batter 
(about three cups). Bake thirty minutes. 

Miss LILIAN VOSBURGH. 

SUGGESTIONS. 

To warm over rolls and biscuits, put them in a common paper 
sack and put in a hot oven. Don't wet them. C. B. C. 



34 CHOICE RECIPES. 



CAKE. 



GOLD MEDAL FRENCH CREAM CAKE. 

For cake : Three eggs, one cup of white sugar, one and a 
half cups of flour, one teaspoonful baking powder, two table- 
spoonfuls thick sweet cream, one teaspoonful of lemon extract or 
vanilla ; bake as jelly cake. 

For the mock cream : One tablespoonful flour stirred in a 
little cold milk; add one egg, well beaten; one-half teacup 
white sugar ; add one tablespoonful of butter to this ; add one- 
half pint of sweet milk (cream is preferred), and boil the whole 
until it thickens ; flavor with lemon ; if used in cake while 
warm, spread between cake. The cake is much improved if 
baked a day or two before using. 

This cake was first baked for Louis Napoleon for the Paris 
Exposition at Paris, for which a gold medal was granted ; after- 
wards for the Centennial at Philadelphia, 1876. 

MRS. J. W. HOPKINS. 

ANGEL FOOD CAKE. 

Whites of eleven eggs, one and one-half cups granulated 
sugar, one cup of flour, one level teaspoon cream tartar, one tea- 
spoon extract vanilla, one-eighth teaspoon salt ; sift flour and 
sugar each five times separately ; beat egg (salted) very stiff, sift 
the cream of tartar with the flour and then sift into the beaten 
egg, then extract ; bake from forty to sixty minutes. 

Miss LOUISE WETMORE. 

NUT CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, four eggs, three cups flour, 
one cup cold water, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream 
tartar, two cupfuls nuts added last ; dredge slightly with flour. 
Bake in a loaf in a moderate oven for fifty or sixty minutes ; ice 
with caramel icing. 

Caramel icing. Two cups brown sugar, one-half cup milk, 
one tablespoon butter. Boil until it just begins to " thread, " take 
from the fire and stir, adding when partly cool two tablespoons of 
vanilla. MRS. DON A. MACNEIL. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 35 



DEVIL'S FOOD. 

No. i. One cup brown sugar, one-half cup of butter, one- 
half cup of sweet milk, two eggs, one very scant teaspoon of 
soda, two very full cups of flour. 

No. 2. One cup of grated chocolate (Baker's unsweatened), 
one-half cup sweet milk, one cup brown sugar. Boil this until 
very thick; cool ; add two teaspoons of vanilla and mix into No. 
i ; bake in three layers. 

In mixing No. i, cream, butter and sugar, break eggs into 
sugar and beat hard for five minutes, then add milk, and then 
soda, dissolved in a little warm water ; then No. 2, filling, and 
last the flour, and beat very hard. 

Icing. One-half cup of sweet cream, beat in enough pulver- 
ized sugar to make stiff. MRS. ADAMS. 

ENGLISH CHEESE CAKES. 

One cup cottage cheese, one egg, one tablespoon sugar, one- 
half cup of cream, one-quarter cup raisins ; line patty pans with 
pie crust and fill with the above mixture ; bake. 

MRS. C. E. ANGLE. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, three eggs (one white 
reserved for frosting), one cup milk, one-half cup grated choco- 
late (unsweetened), one cup sugar, one tablespoon vanilla, two 
cups flour, one teaspoon soda, dissolved in a little milk. Boil 
milk, chocolate and one cup of sugar together, then mix in the 
order given, adding the chocolate mixture hot. Bake in two 
jelly tins and ice with boiled icing, with or without chocolate 
in it. 

Boiled icing. One cup granulated sugar, one-third cup boil- 
ing water, one saltspoon cream of tartar. Boil sugar and water 
without stirring until it " threads ; " add the cream of tartar to 
tartar to the beaten egg, and pour over it the boiling syrup in a 
fine stream, beating well. MRS. DON A. MACNEIL. 

CREAM COOKIES. 

One pint of sour cream, two cups sugar, three eggs, well 
beaten, two teaspoons soda. Mix very soft. Bake quickly. 
Flavor with grated lemon. MRS. BENJ. THORPE. 



36 * CHOICE RECIPES. 



CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One-fourth cup butter, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup sweet 
milk, two eggs, one-half cup grated chocolate, one cup flour, one 
teaspoon yeast powder. This makes two layers. Put together 
with boiled frosting. MRS. COLES BASHFORD. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Light mixture. One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one-half cup milk, two cups of flour, two-thirds full ; two eggs, 
one even spoonful soda, one-half even spoonful vanilla. 

Dark mixture. One-half cake of chocolate, one-half cup of 
milk, two heaping spoonfuls of sugar, one egg. Cook until it 
thickens, stirring all the time ; add one-half teaspoonful vanilla, 
and mix with the white mixture. Bake forty-five minutes in 
slow oven. Make very carefully. MRS. WM. PRIDHAM. 

CIVIL RIGHTS CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour r 
one-half cup of sweet milk, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
whites of seven eggs. Divide into three layers. For the dark 
part, one-half cup of raisins, one-quarter cup of molasses, one 
and one-half teaspoonfuls of ground cinnamon, one of allspice, a 
little cloves. Flour the raisins, and use a very little baking 
powder with the flour you use to flour the raisins. Flavor the 
white part with essence of lemon, and put jelly between the 
layers, icing the whole of the cake on the outside with any plain, 
white icing. MRS. H. C. GOODING. 

ORANGE FRITTERS. 

Yolks of four eggs beaten with four tablespoons of sugar , 
stir into this the juice of half a lemon and just flour enough to 
thicken like a batter ; add beaten whites and dip in one slice of 
orange at a time. Take up with large kitchen spoon and lay in 
hot butter and fry a nice brown. Sprinkle pulverized sugar on 
top. MRS. ANNA C. URBAN. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, two cups of flour, 
sifted twice with one and one -half teaspoons baking powder ; one- 
half cup sweet milk ; whites of four eggs, well beaten ; flavor to 
taste. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 37 



COMBINATION CAKE. 

White part Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup sweet 
milk, whites of five eggs stiffly beaten, two and one-half cups 
flour, sifted twice with one and one-half teaspoons baking powder ; 
flavor to taste. 

Dark part To two large spoons of the above add half a cup 
of raisins, same of currants, half a cup molasses, half cup of 
flour ; spice well, as for fruit cake. 

Bake white part in layers ; dark part in layers, also. Place 
one layer dark between two of the white, with jelly between. 
Frost. Best to bake the layers in square or oblong tins, and cut 
in dainty blocks. If you color one layer of the white cake it is a 
change. MRS. BENJ. THORPE. 

WALNUT TORTE (CAKE). 

Separate the yolks and whites of nine eggs ; sift half a pound 
of pulverized sugar into the yolks and beat until the consistency 
of batter ; add a pinch of salt to the whites and beat till very stiff. 
Have ready a pound of walnuts, shelled carefully (weigh before 
shelling). Reserve some of the whole ones for decorating the 
cake. Pound remainder in a mortar, or with rolling-pin, and add 
to beaten yolks ; add also two heaping tablespoons sponge cake ; 
last, add the stiff-beaten whites. Bake in a moderate oven three- 
quarters of an hour. MRS. ANNA C. URBAN. 

WHITE CAKE. 

One cup sweet milk, one cup butter, two cups sugar, three 
and one-half cups sifted flour, three teaspoons Royal baking 
powder, sifted three or four times with the flour ; whites of eight 
eggs ; cream, sugar and butter together, Beat eggs to a stiff 
froth and stir in last. Season with lemon. Lay papers over top 
of cake pan until the bottom is well baked. 

MARY E. THRELKELD. 

VERMONT ELECTION CAKE. 

Three cups new milk, two cups sugar, one yeast cake. Let 
it stand over night. In the morning add two cups of sugar, two 
cups of shortening (one cup butter, one cup of meat fat is best), 
two cups of raisins, two eggs, one-half teaspoon soda, one nut- 
meg. Let it rise until it bubbles, then bake. Makes four 
loaves. MRS. J. O. HALL. 



38 CHOICE RECIPES. 



WATERMELON CAKE. 

White part. One-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, one and 
a half cups sugar, whites of three eggs, beaten stiff; two tea- 
spoons baking powder. 

Dark part. One cup red sugar, one-half cup white sugar, 
one-half cup butter, one-half cup of milk, yolks of three eggs, 
two teaspoons of baking powder. Put raisins or currants in the 
red part to represent watermelon seeds. 

MRS. R. B. ASHLEY. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, the whites of four eggs, 
one cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, three small teaspoons 
of baking powder, flavoring. Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream, then stir in the milk and flour ; add the whites last. This 
can be used for any layer cake. MRS. T. F. BIXBY. 

VELVET SPONGE CAKE. 

Four eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately ; two cups of 
sugar, two heaping cups of flour, two teaspoons of baking pow- 
der, one cup of boiling water. Beat yolks, add sugar and 
beat until real smooth, add flour and baking powder, then hot 
water, then beaten whites, and beat all well. The batter 
will be thin, but it will come out all right. Bake half an hour 
in a moderate oven. MRS. C. D. CHEESMAN. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Three eggs, beat ; one and one-half cups sugar, beat ; one 
cup flour, beat ; one-half cup cold water, beat ; one-half teaspoon 
soda, beat ; one cup flour and one teaspoon of cream of tartar, 
beat ; one teaspoon of vanilla ; slow oven. 

MRS T. F. BIXBY. 

RAISED DOUGH CAKE. 

Two pounds raised dough (made from good recipe for bread), 
three-fourths pound brown sugar, one-half pound butter, four 
eggs, one-half pound raisins, one-half pound currants, one tea- 
spoon cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon allspice, one- 
half teaspoon nutmeg. Raise for half an hour, then bake in a 
moderate oven. MRS. HUGH MACNIEL. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 39 



EGOLESS CAKE. 

One and a half cups sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup of 
sour milk, one-half teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon cinnamon, 
one-half nutmeg (grated), three level cups of sifted flour, one and 
a half cups of seeded raisins chopped and well floured in part of 
this three cups. 

"A tutti frutti filling for layer cake is made by mixing 
chopped raisins and a small quantity of lemon, orange 
and citron peel, currants and nuts with soft icing. It must be 
very thoroughly mixed, so that no one ingredient shall predomi- 
nate." Miss LILIAN VOSBURGH. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup butter, five eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately ; four cups of flour, one cup sweet 
milk, two teaspoons baking powder, two teaspoons lemon ex- 
tract ; add whites of eggs last. This receipt makes two cakes. 

Filling. Beat the whites of two eggs very stiff and add a 
little sugar. Chop two oranges very fine and beat into whites of 
egg. Miss CARRIE OLESON. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound flour, one pound butter, one pound sugar, one 
dozen eggs, three pounds currants, four pounds raisins, one 
and one - half pounds citron, one and one - fourth ounces 
cinnamon, one-half ounce mace, one-fourth ounce cloves, 
one-half teaspoon ginger, one-half tablespoon soda, one- 
half teacup molasses, one-fourth pint best strong brandy. To 
prevent fruit cake baking too hard on the bottom make thick 
batter of graham flour and water, and place an inch deep in the 
baking tin. Place oiled paper on this and at sides of tin before 
pouring in the mixture. MRS. WM. PRIDHAM. 

POLISH ALMOND CAKE. 

Two-thirds of a cup of fresh butter, one cup sugar cream 
well together ; add four eggs, one at a time ; beat thoroughly ; 
then beat in one heaping cup of flour and a very scant teaspoon 
of baking powder ; have blanched and shredded not chopped 
one-fourth pound almonds, stir half of which into the cake, and 
strew the rest on the top ; bake in a small dripping pan or other 
scant pan. Miss LILIAN VOSBURGH. 



4O CHOICE RECIPES. 



COOKIES. 



LEMON COOKIES. 

Half a cup of butter, one cup sugar, juice of one-half large 
lemon, grated peel of half a lemon ; one-half teaspoon soda in 
two tablespoons milk ; flour to roll. 

MRS. JENNIE M. SMITH. 

HONEY COOKIES. 

One-half pound almonds, one-half pound chocolate, one cup 
honey, cup of sugar, four eggs, one wineglass of brandy, one tea- 
spoon cloves, allspice and cinnamon, one-half teaspoon baking 
powder and flour to stiffen. MRS. ANNA C. URBAN. 

FRUIT COOKIES. 

One and a half cups sugar, one cup butter, three eggs, a level 
teaspoon soda dissolved in one-fourth cup buttermilk, one-half 
teaspoon cloves, two- thirds teaspoon cinnamon, little nutmeg, one 
cup chopped raisins or part currants, one-fourth cup citron. Mix 
soft and sift sugar on top. MRS. FRANK GORDON. 

FANCY COOKIES. 

One cup white sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, one and 
a half cups flour (probably more), one-fourth teaspoon hartshorn. 
Roll thin, cut in fancy shapes, paint tops with beaten egg and 
sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. MRS. LESLIE SMITH. 

ANNA'S GINGERSNAPS. 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, one-half 
cup boiling water, two teaspoons ginger, one-half teaspoon 
cloves, one teaspoon soda, flour to make a stiff dough. The soda 
is dissolved in the boiling water. Bring molasses to a boil. Mix 
sugar and butter to a cream, then add the molasses, then the hot 
water and soda, spices and last the flour, quite stiff. Roll out 
very thin and bake in very hot oven. 

MRS. HUGH MACNEII,. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 41 



DOUGHNUT BALLS. 

One cup sugar, three-quarters cup sweet milk, four eggs, one 
teaspoonful extract, two teaspoonful baking powder, two cups 
flour, add pinch of salt. Stir with spoon the same as for batter- 
cakes, then drop with teaspoon into a skillet of hot lard. When 
fried brown, roll in pulverized sugar and cocoanut. 

MRS. W. R. HUNT. 

GERMAN COOKIES. 

One cup white sugar, one cup dark brown, one-half cup 
water, one-half teaspoon saleratus in water, one teaspoon cloves, 
one teaspoon ginger, little cinnamon, pinch of salt. Roll very 
thin. Very fine with coffee for breakfast. 

MRS. J. C. WILCOX. 

FRIED CAKES. 

One cup sugar, three eggs, one cup milk, three small table- 
spoonfuls lard, three teaspoons baking powder, a little nutmeg, 
half teaspoonful salt. Mold soft and drop into hot lard, then 
place kettle on back of stove and cook slowly until done. 

MRS. L. G. WETMORE. 

WALNUT WAFERS. 

Two eggs, well beaten ; one cup brown sugar, one cup chopped 
walnuts, pinch of salt, four tablespoons sifted flour. Bake a 
-spoonful on buttered paper or tins. 

MRS. W. G. COCHRAN. 

HERMITS. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of 
raisins, chopped fine ; three eggs, one-half teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in three tablespoons of milk ; one nutmeg, one teaspoon 
each of cloves and cinnamon, six cups of flour. Roll one-quarter 
inch thick, cut in small cakes, and bake in a rather quick oven. 

MRS. W. G. COCHRAN. 

EGOLESS COOKIES. 

Six cups flour, two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup sweet 
milk, one teaspoon soda. Roll very thin and bake quickly. 

MRS. W. C. PATTERSON. 



42 CHOICE RECIPES. 



PUDDINGS. 



STEAMED GRAHAM PUDDING. 

Two cups of graham flour, one cup of milk, one cup molasses, 
one-half cup sugar, three tablespoonfuls melted butter, one tea- 
spoonful soda, all kinds of spice and a cup of raisins, if you like. 
Steam three hours. Any kind of sauce. MRS. T. F. BIXBY. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Six tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, ten tablespoonfuls of 
bread crumbs, one quart of milk. Boil together till thick as 
"pap ; " when cool, add one cup sugar, six eggs, less two whites. 
Bake. Make icing of whites left out, as much sugar as it will 
bear without becoming stringy. Spread over pudding and brown 
slightly. Serve with cream. MRS. R. M. BEU,. 

LEMON CREAM PUDDING. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs with four tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
add the juice and grated rind of one large lemon, two tablespoons 
"of hot water. Let simmer until it thickens, then remove from 
front of stove and stir in the whites of four eggs, beaten stiff with 
two tablespoons of powdered sugar. MRS. G. P. GEHRING. 

ORANGE SHORTCAKE. 

One tablespoon of butter, two of sugar, one well-beaten egg, 
one cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, two teaspoons of 
baking powder ; beat butter, sugar and egg together. Slice half 
a dozen oranges, cutting into little bits ; cover with care ; sugar 
and let stand half an hour before using. Make a sugar and butter 
sauce, adding the juice of four oranges, one-quarter cup of boiling 
water and two tablespoons of wine. MRS. Ross. 

RICE CREAM. 

Half a cup rice cooked in three cups milk till soft ; add two 
cups milk, yolks of three eggs, beaten well, and four tablespoons 
sugar. Let this boil up, then pour in pudding dish. Beat the 
whites of the three eggs, add four tablespoons sugar, flavor with 
lemon or vanilla, and return to the oven until brown. 

MRS. C. C. GIBBONS. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 43 



ORANGE PUDDING. 

Pare and slice around the fruit six large oranges ; sprinkle 
plentifully with sugar, then cover with either of the following 
preparations, stirring carefully, to mix it through the fruit, then 
set on ice until ready to serve : 

No i Boil and sweeten to taste one pint rich milk, thicken 
with cornstarch and flavor with vanilla ; add pinch of salt and 
lump of butter size of an egg. 

No. 2 Two wineglasses of white wine, half a cup of sugar, 
yolks of two eggs and pinch of salt. Beat all well together, then 
place over fire ; stir constantly until it thickens, and pour over 
fruit already prepared. 

Adding three sliced bananas to oranges makes another delicious 
dessert. 

Peaches served in the same way are delicious. The whites of 
the eggs may be beaten light and laid on top. 

MRS. W. T. DUNWELL. 

MRS. H. H. MAYNARD'S BLACKBERRY DUMPLINGS. 

(An old Southern recipe.) 

Make a nice baking powder crust ; a little shorter and a little 
softer than for biscuit ; roll a little thicker than pie crust and cut 
into pieces as large as a tea plate ; cover the center of each, 
thickly, with blackberries and a heaping tablespoon of sugar ; 
pull the edges of the crust up around the berries and pinch to- 
gether. Put the dumplings in a dry, granite pan, not crowding, 
and put in a rather slow oven. After they begin to brown 
slightly, put a little butter and a little sugar into the spaces be- 
tween the dumplings and pour in some boiling water also. Don't 
bake too fast, but if they seem to be browning too rapidly baste 
them with a little of the water. Serve hot, with hard sauce. 

Miss LILIAN VOSBURGH. 

WHITE PUDDINGS. 

Whites of two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, three 
tablespoonfuls of butter, one-half cup of milk ; one teaspoonful 
of baking powder into enough flour to make stiff batter. Steam 
forty to sixty minutes. Can be varied by putting in chopped 
dates, figs, or any other fruit. Serve with sauce. 

MRS. FELIX C. HOWES. 



44 CHOICE RECIPES. 



BATTER PUDDING. 

One pint and a half of milk, three tablespoons of flour, four of 
sugar, five large eggs or six small ones ; flavor with vanilla. 
Bring the milk to the boiling point, pour it over the sugar and 
flour (which have been previously sifted together) ; allow this to 
cool ; add the eggs, beaten very light, and bake in a pudding dish 
half or three-quarters of an hour. Serve immediately, with 
whipped cream or foaming sauce. MRS. A. R. SPRAGUE. 

MRS. H. H. MAYNARD'S BLACKBERRY PUDDING. 

(An old Southern recipe.) 

Half a cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, half a cup 
milk, two small teaspoons baking powder. Mix as for a cake, 
and pour over two boxes of blackberries, which have ready in the 
bottom of a pudding dish sprinkled with a little flour and a table- 
spoon of sugar. Then put into the oven at once and bake as care- 
fully as you would cake. Serve hot, with hard sauce. 

Miss LILIAN VOSBURGH. 

APPLE GRUNT. 

Hemlock Lake. 

Make a light biscuit crust. While it is baking, stew two 
pared, cored apples in a little water. When tender, remove from 
the stove, beat yolk of one egg and tablespoon of brown sugar. 
Turn the brown biscuit, bottom up, on to a platter ; butter ; cover 
with apple mixture ; beat white of egg ; cover the apple biscuit ; 
brown in oven. 

BROWN BETTY. 

Butter a deep pudding dish, place a layer of sliced apple in 
the bottom ; sprinkle with brown sugar, cover with grated bread 
crumbs, seasoned with bits of butter and sprinkle with cinnamon ; 
then a layer of apples ; so alternate, until the dish is filled, covering 
the top with bread crumbs ; brown in oven. Serve with drawn 
butter or foam sauce. Excellent. MRS. JEANETTE STUART. 

SIMPLE RICE PUDDING. 

Eight cups milk, one cup rice, one cup sugar, one teaspoonful 
salt ; flavor to taste. Put over a very slow fire, stirring frequently, 
for nearly an hour, or until boiling ; then place in oven for an 
hour, till good, brown crust forms. MRS. C. C. ASHLEY. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 45 



BANANA PUDDING. 

One pint sweet milk, two tablespoons cornstarch, three table- 
spoons sugar, the beaten whites of three eggs, a little salt. Boil 
milk in a double boiler, then add sugar and salt ; then cornstarch, 
dissolved in a little cold water, and boil ; when done, stir in the 
stiff whites of eggs quickly and thoroughly, after taking from fire. 
Turn part of this into a pudding dish and slices of bananas ; then 
more of pudding and more bananas. Set on ice, and serve cold, 
with sweetened cream. Miss L,IUAN VOSBURGH. 



PIES. 



CURRANT PIE. 

One tumblerful of currants, one tumblerful of sugar, one 
Stir all together well. Iy. C. B. 

ORANGE MERINGUE PIE. 

Grate the rind and use the juice of three large oranges and of 
one lemon. Stir together a large cup of sugar and a heaping 
tablespoon of flour ; add to this the well beaten yolks of three 
eggs and two tablespoons of melted butter. Put in a pie pan 
lined with pie paste, and bake in quick oven. When done, spread 
on the top the three whites of the eggs, well beaten, and well sweet- 
ened with fine sugar. Return to the oven and brown slightly. 

MRS. FRANK JOHN HART. 

CREAM PIE. 

Cream part Beat one egg with one- half cup of sugar and one- 
quarter cup of flour, previously mixed, until creamy. Stir this 
into one cup of boiling milk ; add one teaspoonful of butter and 
stir one way until it thickens. Flavor with vanilla or lemon. 

Crust part Three eggs ; beat the yolks with one cup of gran- 
ulated sugar, four tablespoonfuls of milk or water, one cup of 
flour, one teaspoonful baking powder. Lastly, the beaten whites. 
Flavor same as cream. Bake in two medium size jelly cake tins. 
Bake in a quick oven until a delicate brown. When cool, spread 
cream between layers and on top. MRS. E. S. 



46 CHOICE RECIPES. 



RAISIN PIE. 

One coffee cupful of layer raisins (stoned), juice of one lemon 
and rind peeled thin and chopped with raisins, one tablespoonful 
sugar, one tablespoon water. Bake with upper and lower crust. 

MRS. GEORGE MOTLEY. 



LIGHT DESSERT. 



EGYPTIAN PUDDING. 

One-half cup of rice, cooked in water with a little salt ; one- 
half box of gelatine, well dissolved ; one pint of cream, whipped; 
one cup of pulverized sugar, the juice of one lemon and two 
oranges ; whip cream and gelatine together, add sugar and rice, 
and five cents' worth of dates and figs, a little citron (chopped 
fine) ; garnish with crystalized cherries ; cool thoroughly. 

MRS. A. P. WEST. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One pint rich cream (Santa Ana is very nice), very cold 
whipped, to which add one-half cup pulverized sugar, and flavor 
with vanilla and whip again. Line a dish with lady fingers and 
cover with the cream. MRS. JESSE W. HATCH. 

APPLE CHEESE. 

Stew apples, with plenty of sugar, lemon, cloves and cinna- 
mon ; pass through a hair sieve. To one quart add one-half 
package of gelatine, dissolved in water ; mix well and pour into 
a mold. When cold turn out and serve with custard poured over 
it. MRS. G. B. F. HAIXOCK. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM. 

One-half cup of sugar, one cup of water, and one can of 
grated pineapple, boiled together ten minutes ; dissolve one-half 
box of gelatine in one-half cup of water and beat into pineapple. 
When cool beat in one cup of whipped cream. Set on ice. Serve 
with whipped cream. MRS. SIDNEY J. PARSONS. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 47 



AMBROSIA. 

Peel and slice half a dozen navel oranges into a glass dish, 
sprinkled liberally with white sugar ; cover and mix with dessi- 
cated cocoanut. Let stand in cool place one hour ; serve. 

Miss KATE SAPPINGTON. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Add the juice of one lemon to a pint of strained apple and 
one cup of sugar. If the apple is tasteless add the juice of two 
lemons. Stir into this one-half box of gelatine after it has been 
soaked two hours in one-half cup cold water and dissolved by 
one-half cup of boiling water being turned upon it. Beat thor- 
oughly and set in refrigerator to thicken ; then add the whites of 
four eggs, beaten stiff. Line a mold with lady fingers and fill 
with mixture. The longer you beat it the whiter it will be. 

MRS. E. G. SMEAD. 

ORANGE CHARLOTTE. 

Soak one-half box of gelatine in one-half cup of cold water 
two hours ; add one and a half cups of boiling water. Stir and 
strain, to which add two cups of sugar, one cup of orange juice 
and juice of one lemon. Stir until mixture is cold fifteen min- 
utes or more ; then add whites of four eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Beat together thoroughly and pour into a mold previously 
lined with sections of orange, and set on ice. 

MRS. JENNIE S. PIERCE. 

SNOW. 

Soak one-fourth of a box of gelatine in half a cup of cold 
water ; grate the rind and strain the juice of a lemon; mix with 
these two-thirds of a cup of sugar, mashing the rind first into the 
dry sugar to extract the juice. When the gelatine is thoroughly 
soaked, turn upon it one cupful of boiling water, and stir in the 
lemon and sugar. Set aside to grow thoroughly cold. Beat the 
whites of four eggs to a perfectly stiff froth, then strain the 
gelatine, and add it little by little (beating as you do so) to the 
eggs. Whip the whole to a perfect foam, from twenty minutes 
to half an hour ; set to cool; served with boiled custard. 

MRS. A. D. T. WHITNEY. 



48 CHOICE RECIPES. 



PRUNE WHIP. 

Stew twenty prunes until thoroughly soft and liquor boiled 
away ; cut them fine, removing the pits, and allow them to cooL 
Beat the whites of six eggs to a froth, add six level tablespoons 
of pulverized sugar, a little salt and the prepared prunes, stirring 
all together. Put in pudding dish and place in moderate oven: 
for a few minutes to brown. Miss AMELIA SMEAD. 

BLANC MANGE. 
Blanc manges are milk jellies. 

They may- be made with gelatine, moss, arrowroot, corn- 
starch or farina. 

Seatnoss one tablespoon to a quart of blanc mange. 
Cornstarch or arrowroot three tablespoons to a quart. 
Farina one gill to a quart. 
Sago or tapioca a cupful will make a quart. 

WINE JEL^Y. 

To one-half package of gelatine add one-half pint of cold 
water, the juice of one and one-half lemons and grated rind of 
one. L,et stand one hour, then add one pint of boiling water, 
one-half pound of granulated sugar and one-half pint wine. Run 
into molds and stand in a cool place. Serve with or without the 
following custard : To a pint of milk at the point of boiling add 
two tablespoons sugar and three well-beaten eggs ; flavor to suit- 
Whipped cream may be served instead of custard if desired. 

MRS. C. C. GIBBONS. 



SPANISH RECIPES. 



SPANISH RICE. 

Fry one-half a cupful of rice in butter until it turns a light 
brown, then pour water into the pan and boil the rice until soft. 
Fry two large onions, four large tomatoes and six green (or three 
red) chillies ; add this to the boiled rice just before taking from 
the stove. Salt to taste. MRS. VINTON MITCHELL. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 49 



TAMALES FOR 150 PEOPLE. 

Twenty pounds beef, six cans tomatoes, one dozen chillies, a 
little celery seed ; cook meat tender, chop, mix together and keep 
hot. Make mush of white cornmeal, and when sufficiently 
cooked spread hot on covers or husks using three or four; put 
in two olives ; strip some of husks for strings to tie each end and 
steam one hour. Before serving cut ends of tamale about one 
inch from string, so they look neat and fat. Keep filling and 
mush hot so that they will spread smoothly. Can get covers or 
husks at Christopher's. MRS. MARY R. CLACIUS. 

MEXICAN HOT STEW. 

Take beef that has been boiled to a "pot roast," cut in small 
pieces and fry with a small sliced onion ; over this pour a sauce 
made of six red peppers, with most of the seeds taken out ; boil 
until tender, then mash through a colander ; add the water in 
which the peppers were boiled ; fry together with the meat a few 
moments. Strained tomatoes may be added if preferred. 

MRS. VlNTON MlTCHEU,.. 

ENCHILADAS. 

Tortillas for enchiladas Two and a half cups of flour, one- 
half teaspoon of salt and water enough to make a dough ; roll it 
out thin, cut the size of a pie plate ; cook on top of the stove lid. 
See first that your lid is very warm. 

Sauce for same Take twelve or more red chillies, put in the 
oven to toast, then take them out and seed them, place in hot 
water and let them stand on the stove until the skin can be easily 
scraped off; after scraping the skin mix the meal well in the 
water they were soaking in until very fine. Now chop an onion 
very fine, place a frying pan on the fire with one tablespoonful 
lard ; when very hot fry the onion and then pour in the chili, 
adding vinegar, salt and thyme to taste ; to these add one and 
a half tablespoons of flour to thicken ; let these cook for two 
minutes. 

Dressing for same Two chopped onions, very fine ; three 
hard boiled eggs, chopped up ; a few raisins and olives, and 
grated cheese. Have ready a warm platter. Now fry the tor- 
tillas, one by one, in very hot lard ; from the lard dip them into 



50 CHOICE RECIPES. 



the warm chilli sauce and place on warm platter. Put the dress- 
ing on one-half the tortilla and lay the other half over ; spread 
chili sauce and grated cheese on top ; serve. 

Miss MAMIE DEN. 



ICE CREAMS AND ICES. 



ICE CREAM. 

One quart rich cream, one pint milk, one and a half cups 
granulated sugar, three eggs, one tablespoon vanilla. Beat the 
eggs very light and add to other ingredients ; then whip all 
together with egg beater fifteen minutes, then freeze. A great 
deal depends on the freezing. This cream is delicious when 
frozen with care. If you wish to add fruits do so when half 
frozen. MRS. E. M. UPTON. 

LEMON SHERBET. 

Two cups lemon juice (eight lemons), five cups sugar, eight 
cups of water, whites of two eggs, beaten stiff, and added to the 
partly frozen ices. You can use part orange juice, or fruit syrups 
if preferred. R. L. ASHLEY. 

FROZEN PEACHES. 

One can of peaches, one pint of sugar, one quart of water, 
two cups of whipped cream. Boil sugar and water together; then 
add the peaches and cook twenty minutes longer ; put through 
a sieve and when cool freeze. Toward the last stir in the 
whipped cream. It is also nice without the cream, and apricots 
may be substituted for peaches. 

ORANGE SHERBET. 

Juice of one dozen oranges, juice of three lemons, grated rind 
of four oranges and two lemons ; strain. Boil one quart of water 
with one quart of sugar until it drops rather heavy from the 
spoon. Let cool and add to the juice when it will be ready to 
freeze. MRS. SIDNEY J. PARSONS. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 51 



PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

One can pineapple, one quart cold water, three-fourths of a 
quart of sugar, whites of four eggs ; dissolve the sugar in the 
water, add the pineapple and partly freeze ; add the juice of one 
lemon and the beaten whites and continue freezing. 

MRS. SIDNEY J. PARSONS. 

SNOW ICE. 

One-fourth box of Cox's gelatine, one and one-half cups sugar, 
whites of three eggs, juice of three lemons, one quart of water. 
Put the gelatine to soak in one-half cup warm water for half an 
hour. Then pour over it one pint of boiling water, and when 
dissolved add one pint of cold water, lemon juice and sugar, and 
this is ready to freeze. When nearly frozen add the beaten 
whites of eggs. Make a cooked custard of the yolks of eggs, one 
pint of milk and one-half cup of sugar ; scald, but do not let boil, 
and when cold flavor with vanilla extract. Pour some of this 
around the frozen part when dished. 

MRS. L. H. MITCHEL. 

FROZEN APRICOTS. 

Use juice of two lemons to one-half can of apricots, three or 
four cups of sugar and eight cups of water. 



FRUITS. 



ORANGE CONSERVE. 

Five pints currant juice, one and a half dozen oranges, nine 
pounds granulated sugar, two pounds of choice raisins (seeded); 
cut off and discard the ends of the oranges and seeds ; then cut, 
skin and all, into very small dice ; mix the currant juice, raisins 
and oranges together, and boil gently for one hour ; then add the 
sugar, boiling slowly, for half an hour. Delicious to serve with 
ice cream, about a tablespoonful on the side of the dish. 

MRS. BEECHER. 



52 CHOICE RECIPES. 



To those who prefer canned fruits to preserves, the following 
table will be useful : 

Cook. Sugar. Fruit. Water. 

Cherries 5 minutes 6 ounces i quart i cup 

Raspberries 6 " 4 " i " i " 

Blackberries 6 " 6 i " i " 

Strawberries 8 " 8 i " i " 

Plums 10 " 10 " i " i " 

Bartlett pears 20 " 6 i " i " 

Peaches 8 4 " i " i " 

Boil full amount of sugar and water. Drop a portion of the 
fruit into the boiling syrup. When cooked the necessary time, 
dip out with a strainer and put into the hot jars. Repeat this 
process until all the fruit is cooked, then cover the fruit in the 
jars with the rich syrup and seal at once. Berries cooked this 
way will keep for years. MRS. DON A. MACNEII,. 

APRICOT JAM. 

Scald, peel and stone the apricots. To ten pounds of fruit 
add seven pounds of sugar ; arrange in layers and let stand over 
night ; chop one pound of blanched almonds and one dozen 
apricot pits ; cook apricots and sugar two hours, add almonds 
and pits one-half hour before the mixture is done, and watch 
carefully that it does not scorch after the almonds are in. 

MRS. E. H. HOLMES. 

I.OQUAT JAM. 

Remove the skin and pits of ripe pulpy loquats. To six 
pounds of the pulp add four pounds of white sugar ; simmer 
slowly and stir often for three hours. Seal while hot and keep 
in a dry, cool place. MRS. S. H. WHITING. 

FIG JAM. 

Ripe green or Smyrna figs are best. Peel them, and to every 
six pounds add two sweet rined lemons. Slice thinly and quarter 
the lemons ; pour on boiling water (after removing every seed) 
and let them cook till tender ; throw away the water and add 
them to the figs with three pounds of granulated sugar. Boil 
the mixture four hours slowly and stir frequently, as it is liable 
to scorch. MRS. S. H. WHITING. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 53 



GRAPE FRUIT. 

Loosen the pulp, remove the seeds and bitter lining, sweeten 
the pulp with powdered sugar ; eaten with spoon from shell. 

Oyster cocktails served in grape fruit are also popular and 
delicious. The pulp is loosened, skin and seeds removed and 
four or five tiny Blue Points are put in the center of each grape 
fruit half. The seasoning consists of tomato, lemon juice, vine- 
gar, salt and a few drops of tobasco or Worcestershire sauce. 
The whole must be served ice cold. 

BOSTON COOK BOOK. 



PICKLES. 



PEAR (SWEET PICKLES). 

Peel two gallons hard pears at night, halve and core them. 
Take one pint vinegar and two pounds sugar ; let it come to a 
boil and pour over the fruit and let stand until morning ; then 
add your spices cinnamon, cloves and allspice in a bag and 
let cook slowly until fruit is easily pierced with silver fork. Re- 
move fruit and let syrup boil down until quite thick ; pour over 
the fruit, and you have splendid sweet pickles. 

MRS. F. T. BICKNELL. 

PICKLED NASTURTIUM SEEDS. 

Gather the seeds, wash and dry thesi ; then put in vinegar ; 
half teaspoonful of salt to a pint of vinegar. When you have 
sufficient seeds, scald fresh vinegar ; add salt as before ; add the 
drained seeds. Put in bottles while scalding hot, taking care to 
cover the seeds completely with vinegar. 

BOSTON COOKING SCHOOL. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Five quarts stewed tomatoes, five even tablespoons salt, three 
even tablespoons pepper, three even tablespoons allspice, four 
even tablespoons cinnamon, three even tablespoons French mus- 
tard, two cups of vinegar. 



54 CHOICE RECIPES. 



TOMATO PICKLES. 

Peel and slice the tomatoes (green ones) , put them in a large 
pan or crock and put some salt on them, enough to take the flat 
taste off; then pour boiling water over them, so they are well 
covered with the water ; they ought to be kept hot for a while, 
but not to cook. The next day drain dry, put between a cloth 
and press them a little, so as to get the moisture out ; then lay 
them in a stone jar ; have spice bags ready, allspice, cinnamon 
and a little clove ; heat vinegar enough to cover, with stick cin- 
namon and brown sugar enough to make a pleasant sweet ; some 
red pepper ; pour over the pickles ; put a plate on to keep them 
under. Horseradish or white mustard seed preserves the vinegar 
and keeps it good. This is a very fine receipt. 

MRS. N. G. CHESBROUGH. 

OIL PICKLES. 

One hundred half-grown cucumbers, sliced thin, and not 
peeled ; half a pint of salt ; let stand, with heavy weight, for six 
hours ; do not freshen ; then add one-half pint olive oil, two 
ounces celery seed, two ounces mustard seed, one quart finely 
chopped onion. Cover all with cold vinegar. Stir well with a 
spoon and put in a stone jar, with weight. Will keep without 
sealing, if made with pure cider vinegar. 

MRS. W. G. COCHRAN. 

PICKLED WATERMELON RIND. 

Peel watermelon, remove the red part carefully, cut in lengths. 
Steam in steamer over boiling water till you can pierce with 
broom straw. Drain ; then place in cans. Boil one quart of 
vinegar to two pounds of sugar, one ounce of cassia buds (or you 
can use cinnamon) ; pour this over the rinds, and seal. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Twenty-four large, ripe tomatoes; eight onions, large, dry 
ones ; six large, green peppers ; six cups cider vinegar, three 
cups light-brown sugar, four tablespoonfuls of salt, two of ginger, 
two of cinnamon, one of cloves. The spices all ground. Boil 
two hours. This is a fine relish for cold meats. 

MRS. N. G. CHESBROUGH. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 55 



PICKLED FIGS. 

Take the white Smyrna figs that are fully ripe, but not cracked 
open ; place in a wire basket, dip for a moment into a deep kettle 
of hot and moderately strong lye ; afterward, drain. Make a 
syrup of one quart of best cider vinegar to three pints of sugar ; 
boil and skim. Put the figs into the syrup and boil until 
thoroughly cooked ; remove, and boil syrup down. Place the 
fruit in a jar to the depth of three or four inches, then spread 
over bits of cinnamon bark and cloves ; then another layer of 
fruit, and spice, until the jar is full. To a gallon of fruit, two 
teaspoons whole cloves, four tablespoons cinnamon. Scald syrup 
for seven mornings and pour boiling hot over fruit, keeping fruit 
well covered with the syrup. MRS. N. GARLAND. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

Twelve pounds peaches, four and one- half pounds sugar, one- 
half pint best vinegar, and cassia buds tied in a muslin bag. 
Heat the vinegar till very hot, then add the sugar. Cook a few 
peaches at a time, draining them on a sieve. When all the 
peaches are cooked put them into a stone jar, pouring the syrup 
on them. Let remain over night. In the morning pour syrup 
into a kettle and, when hot, put in the peaches for a short time ; 
then put your peaches into glass jars, pouring the syrup over, and 
seal tight. MRS. F. M. FELLOWS. 



BEVERAGES. 



MAKING PUNCH FROM CURRANT JELLY. 
Whip to a froth half a tumbler of currant jelly, adding grad- 
ually half a pint of boiling water ; add the juice of a lemon, half 
a cup of sugar, and then pour in slowly one quart of cold water. 
This is more wholesome served without ice, but as warm water 
was used for melting the jelly a palatable temperature may be 
gained by adding half a pint of finely-shaved ice when you are 
ready to serve it. 



56 CHOICE RECIPES. 



LEMONADE. 

Five lemons, one orange, one-half pound loaf sugar, one pint 
water, one quart bottle Shasta water, ice. Make a syrup of the 
water and sugar, add the lemon rinds and let stand one hour. 
(The lemons must be pared so there is none of the bitter white 
left on the rinds). Then remove the rinds, add the strained 
juice of the lemons and the orange, cut in very thin slices. Pour 
the lemonade into a bowl, having a block of ice in the center. 
Add strawberries if desired. The Shasta water should be added 
just before serving. MRS. COLES BASHFORD. 

LEMON PUNCH. 

Eight lemons, four quarts water, one quart sugar (scant), one 
box strawberries, one teaspoonful ginger extract, two cups of 
grated pineapple. MRS. WM. PRIDHAM. 

ICED COFFEE. 

Take a quart of very strong coffee and while hot mix with it 
some boiling milk. Set aside to cool and serve in cups with 
shaved ice and powdered sugar. On top of each cup place a 
spoonful of whipped cream. Chocolate may be served in the 
same way. 

GINGER TEA. 

Half a teaspoonful of extract of ginger, one teaspoonful of 
sugar ; add half a glass of boiling water. 

BOUILLON. 

One teaspoonful of beef extract dissolved in a cup of boiling 
water, one teaspoonful of port wine. Salt and pepper to taste. 

PUNCH. 

Use the juice of two dozen oranges, two dozen lemons, two 
quarts of strawberries, one quart of port wine, four tablespoons 
maraschino, one-half dozen thin slices cucumber. Put into the 
punch bowl with lots of ice. MRS. W. F. BOTSFORD. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET. 

Over one quart of strawberry syrup pour one quart of boiling 
water, add the juice of two lemons and tablespoonful of rose- 
water. Half fill a glass with cracked ice ; pour over the sherbet. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 57 



TAMARIND WATER. 

Pour a pint of boiling water on one quarter of a pound of 
preserved tamarinds ; allow it stand for half an hour, keeping 
quite hot ; then strain off the water. It can be served hot or 
allowed to cool and served with cracked ice. In either case it is 
a refreshing and wholesome drink for the sick room. 

NECTAR. 

Take two quarts of boiled water and dissolve in it two pounds 
of sugar and two and one-half ounces of tartaric acid. Beat up 
the whites of two eggs and put them into a bottle with a little 
warm syrup. Shake well and add the remainder of syrup. Let 
it boil for several minutes, skimming until clear. Flavor with 
vanilla or lemon. To use : Put half a teaspoonful of bicarbonate 
of soda into a tumbler, pour over it two or three tablespoons of 
syrup, add a little crushed ice and fill with water. 

MRS. R. B. ASHLEY. 

CHOCOLATE SYRUP. 

Into a graniteware saucepan put three tablespoonfuls of 
Baker's soluble chocolate and gradually pour on it half a pint of 
boiling water, stirring all the time. Place on the fire, stirring 
all the time till chocolate is dissolved. Cook three minutes, strain 
and cool ; add one tablespooniul of vanilla extract. Bottle and 
keep in a cold place. 

CHOCOLATE NECTAR. 

Put into a tumbler two tablespoonfuls broken ice, two table- 
spoons of chocolate syrup, three tablespoons of whipped cream, 
one gill of milk and half a gill of soda water from siphon bottle, 
or Apollinaris water. Stir well before drinking. A tablespoon 
of vanilla ice cream is a desirable addition. Can omit soda, Apol- 
linaris and ice cream and will still make delicious drink. Vanilla 
or cinnamon always nice with chocolate. 

TOAST WATER. 

An English dish, made with stale bread, thoroughly browned. 
Pour over it a pint or quart of boiling water, according to the 
amount of bread used. Set away to cool. A refreshing drink 
for an invalid. MRS. J. O. HALL. 



58 CHOICE RECIPES. 



CANDY. 

COCOANUT CANDY (FINE). 

Two cups of granulated sugar, one-half cup milk. Boil to- 
gether ten minutes. Just before taking from the stove, put in one 
large cup of dessicated cocoanut. Stir well while boiling and 
beat briskly after it is taken from the stove, until it begins to 
harden. Pour in oiled tins and cut in squares. Never make 
more than one recipe at a time, and always use best olive oil to 
rub over the tins. MRS. VINTON L. MITCHELL. 

SPANISH CANDY, OR PINOCHE. 

Five cups light -brown sugar, one cup sweet milk, butter size 
of an egg. Boil thirty-five minutes, then try in water ; if the 
candy separates, so that you can take it up in a solid piece (not 
brittle, as other candy) , you then add one and one-half cups of 
chopped walnut meats ; remove from fire and stir rapidly until it 
begins to get stiff, then pour on buttered dishes. 

MRS. WM. PRIDHAM. 

FUDGES. 

Two cups sugar, one cup milk, one-half cup water, butter size 
of a hickory nut, one square Baker's chocolate and, when nearly 
done, vanilla. Boil until it forms a soft ball when tried in cold 
water, then remove from fire and allow to become nearly cold- 
Beat and put on plates and cut in squares. Use more chocolate* 
if desired. Chopped walnuts or dessicated cocoanut may be used. 

MRS. FRANK GORDON. 

FOUNDATION CREAM FOR NUT, CHOCOLATE AND 

DATE CREAMS. 

Two cups white sugar, three-fourths of a cup of water, and 
any flavoring preferred. Cook and treat same as fudges, but do- 
not turn out on plates. When too hard to stir, work with hands 
until soft, and make up with nuts, etc. 

ROASTED ALMONDS. 

Blanch one-half pound of almonds ; put with them one table- 
spoonful of melted butter and one or two teaspoonfuls of salt ; 
stir until well mixed. Bake fifteen minutes, or until light yellow,, 
stirring often. MRS.E. S. MILLER. 



59 



FIXEN & CO. 

135 SO. SPRING ST. 
211 W. SECOND ST. 



T 



HE good things in this book will be eaten with a greater relish if your 
table is decorated with 

riXEN'S SNOWY WHITE 



TABLE DAMASKS AND NAPKINS 

It is scarcely necessary to state that we are the largest dealers in fine 
linens in Southern California. Our goods are found in every well regulated 
home, restaurant and hotel. 

Have you used our linens ? 
If not, why not ? 

General Dry Goods at lowest prices consistent with quality. 



TELEPHONE MAIN 76. 

MAIL ORDERS PROMPTLY FILLED. 



.FIXEN & CO. 



You Cannot Make a Mistake in Buying a 

MAJESTIC RANGE 



One of its 
strongest points 
is its economy 
in the use 
of fuel. 




A Perfect Cook- 
ing Range 

Call and get a 
Majestic 
Cook Book. 



Harper & Reynolds Co. 

Sole Agents 

152-154 NORTH MAIN ST. Los ANGELES, CAL. 



6o 

A Cheerful Home 



CAN BE HAD BY USING 



WAU K 

v v ^r\lL-jlL>f 



SOUGHT FROM 



A. A. ECKST-ROM 

TELEPHONE MAIN 879 
324 South Spring Street Los Angeles, Cal. 

TELEPHONE MAIN e49 

STOLL & THftYER GO. . 

BOOKSELLERS JIND 



DEALERS IN 



BLANK BOOKS AND COMMERCIAL STATIONERY 
ARCHITECTS' AND SURVEYORS' SUPPLIES 

139 SOUTH SPRING ST. LOS ANGELES, CAL. 

WATCHES, CLOCKS AND JEWELRY TELEPHONE MAIN 687 



S. CONRKDI 

^ OPTICIAN 

999 

Watchmaker and Jeuaelet* 

FINE DIAMOND SETTING A SPECIALTY 
113 South Spring Street Los Angeles, Cal. 



6i 



?<gggg88 



tfiNiHNMiiiiiiinniii ii 




The task of selecting FOOTWEAR is one that is 
fraught with many uncertainties. In the first place, 
you are obliged to take the word of the dealer for the 
quality of the SHOE he is selling. You must depend 
on him to give you styles that are not out behind the 
times. 

We try to give absolute satisfaction in the selling 
of Footwear. 

Our stocks are very complete and well assorted. 

We would be pleased to have you numbered 
among our patrons. 

AVERY-STAUB SHOE CO. 

BYRNE BUILDING 
BROADWAY, NEAR THIRD 



"Always Satisfactory to the Wearer." 

Himmniiiiiiiiummiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiliiimiiiiiiiiim iniiiiiMiiiiiimiiiiNiiiMiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiimiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimimiMii'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiffi 



Telephone Main 1050 



KITT5 & JEFFRIES 

PRINTERS 



AND ENGRAVERS 



MAKE A SPECIALTY OF CALLING CARDS 
WEDDING INVITATIONS AND PROGRAMMES 



129 South Spring Street 



Los Angeles, Cal 




62 




SCIENCE OF ORIENTAL MEDICINE" 



Latest and Best Book on a Live Subject 

The only complete work on this topic ever printed in the English lan- 
guage. Tells all about the Chinese system of medicine, its founding and 
early history, its important secrets acquired through vivisection, its won 
derful pulse diagnosis, its uniform use of absolutely non-poisonous herbal 
remedies, its rapid progress in the United States, its eminent practitioners, 
its novel theories of the origin, causes and treatment of many prevalent 
diseases, and the experiences of some of its patrons in Southern California. 
Also gives valuable hints and advice on diet and ways of living. 

240 Pages, Printed on Heavy Book Paper, in Clear, Readable Type, Nicely Bound, 
Illustrated. Call and get one. 

DIAGNOSIS AND EXAMINATION FREE 



The Foo & Wing Herb Company 



903 South Olive Street, Los Angeles, Cal. 



PUBLISHERS 



63 

WELLS & SONS 



MANUFACTURERS OF 



Ice-Cream and Confectionery 



South Spring Street 



Fifth 
Telephone /Wain 373 Los Angeles, Cal. 

MEXICAN DRAWN WORK 

YARNS AND LINENS 

ART MATERIALS, STAMPING 



DECORATIVE NEEDLEWORK 

BEEMAN & HENDEE 

323 SOUTH SPRING STREET 
LOS ANGELES, CAL. 

MULLEN, BLUETT & 
CLOTHIE-RS 



Gentlemen's Outfitters 

* 

M. W. Cor. Spring and First Sts. Los Angeles, Cal. 



6 4 



WILLIAMSON BROS. 



STANDARD 
SEWING MACHINES 




HOFFMAN 
BICYCLES 



TELEPHONE BLACK 784- 

327 S. SPRING ST. LOS ANGELES, CAL. 

MANUFACTURERS OF LADIES' AND CHILDREN'S 

FINE SILK UNDERWEAR 



r. SUE O/NE co. 

CHINESE flND JflPflNESfc BflZflR 



328 South Spring St. 



Los Angeles, Cal. 



YOURS 
ANXIOUS 
TO 
PLEASE 



CALIFORNIA 
BOOK STORE 

E.J.CHESS. MGR. 

353 S.SPRING ST.. Loi ANCELES. 




Art Printer 



DESIGNER 



ENGRAVING IN ALL KNOWN PROCESSES 



TEL. riAIN 464 



316 West Second Street 




LOS ANGELES, CAL. 







' - ' ' / .<- - s~&! 

" Every Picture a Work of Art." 

alifornia should not miss the oppor-- 
tunity to have Photographs taken under the most 

^osphere in the world. 



J] i . LED SUCCESS 
N THE ART ; >F 



JMOTOGRAPHIC 

ORTRAITURE 




able 



!s awarded in the last nine years to 

Coast, including both the gold medals 

Convention of Photographers ; that is, 

iedals offered on photographs at any time or place 

during 

i nee when local competitors entered into the same 
coni]- .nal Convention of Photographers, this emi- 

nent auth <rded cur exhibits higher awards than any 

local compi r received. 




-; Studio. 

1 



220 - l j S. Spring St. O PP HoUenheck 

^ ^gg@ggg^@gsgggggg@&g 



