TY fIS' 



PRICE FiFtY CENTS. 




^<^(;5^-^^tep 



PUBLISHED BY 

Ht Enterprise Manufacturing CoMPANY<jf Pa. 

PHILADELPHIA, U.S.A. 
1898 



^ THE ENTERPRISING 
HOUSEKEEPER 

uuggestions for 

BREAKFAST 
LUNCHEON 
AND SUPPER 

By 

HELEN LOUISE JOHNSON 

tt 

SECOND EDITION 
Issued by 

I he ilnterprise Manufacturing Co. of Pa, 
Philadelphia, Pa., U. S. c4^ 



t(>886 



Copyright by 
HELEN LOUISE JOHNSON 

1896 and J898 



T^reface 



r'HE Usi of culinary Uiera.iure is so Urge thai it is a.tmost 
the fashion to apologize for taxing a much-abused 
public ^th the burden of a nem) book on this subject. 
The ones most "halued, hcRve'ver, do not appear among the 
names of those counted by the bookseller, for no heirloom 
could be more fondly cherished than is the old family, pen- 
<written cook book, made precious by years of ser'hice. 
Local cook books hsCbe a "balue not represented by a royalty 
paid, for recipes "which ha<ve stood the tests of time and 
experience are of special %>orth. 

The demand at the present time is not so much for 
ne^w directions for old methods, as for suggestions and 
recipes relating especially to the use of the ** left-o'vers/' 
What to do %>ith the food left from the previous meal? 
HoRv may I use this that my table may be set economically 
and 'well? Ho^w can I <vary the recipes that these left-o'hers 
may appear in appetizing and tempting forms for several 
succeeding meals ? These are questions that appeal to e'very 
housekeeper, for it is a problem, more or less intricate, in 
every house. 

The aim of this little book is not only to aid the house- 
keeper in the use of such labor-saving utensils as are here 
represented, but to gi've her a compilation of practical, 
tested recipes, <written <with special reference to the subject 
abolye. The recipes call for small quantities, and ^11 in 
most cases serve a family of four or five persons. This is 
done mainly because it is generally satisfactory to double 
given quantities, %>hen to halve them may spoil the result. 



^4 



'i'o' 




F coarse you are a Progressi've House^fe 
and Jt>in certainly be interested in one or more 
of the time, labor, and money-sa'ving de'bices 
herein described- By their use many things 
may be utilized in the kitchen that heretofore 
you or your cook ha've been in the habit of 
^wasting* 

We make a large line of Patented Special- 
ties not described in these pages* Catalogue 
containing full description mailed free* 

All the goods of our manufacture are 
strictly first-class and can be procured in any 
Hard-ware or House furnishing store in the 
uni'berse* Should you be unable to procure 
any desired article from your dealer, <we 'will 
gladly for^ward same direct on receipt of price* 



Ihe £Lnter prise JVLanufactunng C0O* of la* 
Philadelphia, "Pa*, U* S* cA. 



1 



The Enterprise 
family Outfit of 




Sad Irons 



<A Handsome Wedding or Christmas Present 




No. 330-Nickel-PIatcd, $3.50 
No. 335— Polished, 3.25 



OUR object in supphnng the outfit in a case, as illustrated, is to 
make it a convenient article for the tidy housekeeper. Each 
case contains a set of Mrs. Potts' Cold Handle Sad Irons, a 
Polishing Iron, and a Girl's Iron. The handles of all our Mrs. Potts' 
Irons have a Forged Iron Stretcher which will not break. 



The Enterprise Sad Irons 



It has been clearly demonstrated that a set of Sad Irons is useful 
only as long as the handles last, and if these are so cheaply made as 
to be easily broken, keeping the laundry well supplied ceases to be an 
inexpensive matter. With all kitchen utensils and appointments 
nothing is as cheap as the best. 

We are the original manufacturers of the popular Mrs. Potts' Irons, 
and from the first have never spared pains nor expense to add to their 
utility and durability. These irons are so well and favorably known 
that we will refer but briefly to a few main points of superiority. They 
are ground by patented machinery, which makes every iron true and 
the face of it slightly convex, thus making ironing easier than with 
the old-style flat irons. The detachable handles are of walnut, 
excepting the lower part, which is made of forged, not cast, iron ; 
they do not l:)ecome heated, require no holder or cloth, and fit naturally 
to the hand without straining the arm or wrist. 

Walnut wood, being close-grained, does not absorb the moisture 
as* do tlie coarser-grained woods, such as poplar, maple and beech; 
consequently, it does not warp and shrink when in use ; other cheap 
woods do, causing the screws holding Stretcher to become loose, and 
the Handle worthless. This alone should be an inducement for every 
prospective purchaser to insist on getting "Enterprise" Irons with 
Walnut Handle having Forged Iron Stretcher, thus procuring the most 
serviceable Irons and Handles ever offered to the trade. 

When ordering from your hardware merchant, be sure to ask for 
and ,^Y'/ " The Enterprise." No irons but those made by the Enter- 
prise Manufacturing Co. of Pa. have Forged Iron Stretchers on the 
handle. 



Introduction 



T 



,IME is money." The man who has the abiHty to 
turn out as finished work as his neighbor in one- 
half the time consumed by him, has an earning 
capacity twice as great. The mechanical device which enables 
a manufacturer to double his output within a stated period 
increases his income by saving time. These truisms apply to 
the home as well as to the shop, and the principles concerning 
energy are as fixed in the device called mian as they are in 
any machine. That labor-saving machine which enables a 
woman to accomplish in one hour the work generally done in 
two, doubles her working capacity as well. Division of labor 
makes the producing of a hundred machines a day a possibility. 
Such conditions are attainable to a limited extent only, in the 
ordinary household, and the result of saving time and strength 
must be sought for in other ways. A man may argue that a 
woman's time represents no money value ; or a woman that 
she pays her cook the same whether she works all day or only 
half; this is like looking at the moon when half of it is still in 
shadow. Saving a woman's time may not mean a return in 
actual dollars and cents, but saving her energy does. If your 
cook can accomplish her work in such time that she has a 
portion of each day for rest or recreation, that work undoubt- 
edly will be better done. The better equipped the shop the 
better work it can turn out in a lim.ited time, and the well-fitted 
kitchen represents the engine-room of the home, where 



energy, health and often happiness are manufactured. Men 
often refuse the money for kitchen equipment, paying many 
times as much in doctors' bills without realizing why ; and the 
bills represent only a portion of the loss. The women who 
lack mechanical ability co see the saving use of certain devices 
are apt to decline to adopt them — the others only because, 
tor some reason, they must. 

Certain labor-saving inventions claim only a saving of 
time or work ; others can do more. This is especially true of 
the meat and food chopper, the right use of which often means 
a saving of material otherwise useless. Housekeepers should 
remember that food presented in an unsavory or indigestible 
form represents a greater loss than if the materials were 
actually thrown away. 

Simple explanations of the workings of the machines 
mentioned are given with the guarantee of the manufacturers 
to do all in their power toward remedying seeming or actual 
defects. A household machine differs in no way from those 
made for other purposes ; they all wear with use. Parts of 
all these machines can be replaced at a nominal cost, if lost 
or worn. It is more cften the case than not, that when a meat 
chopper will not work, its knife has been put in wrong side out, 
and the machine, not the worker, receives the blame for the 
worker's error. The coffee mills occasionly need a new screw, 
but are not helplessly disabled when this occurs. Treat your 
household implements with the same intelligence you ask of 
your child with his toys. Read the directions carefully, and 
jo^low them. 



1 



breakfast. Luncheon and Supper 

It is easy to say " bestow thought upon your daily menus and 
seek variety." It is always easier to say than to do, to preach than to 
practice. A conscientious search through a large number of cook 
books and magazines devoted to culinary topics, reveals the fact that, 
while numerous writers reiterate the importance of thought and 
variety, few have suggested how to obtain either. 

The building of a menu should not have for its only consideration 
the mere suggesting of something to eat. This is the end, the result ; 
other factors are important as a foundation. The tastes of the mem- 
bers of the family, their requirements in respect to age and occupation, 
and how these can best be satisfied from the household allowance and 
the market— these should be the study of the housekeeper— that poor 
housekeeper, who sometimes so sadly needs someone to study her. 
She who is the unwilling and unhappy target of three-fourths of what 
is written on the subject of cooking. 

Breakfast is, perhaps, the most difficult meal for which to provide. 
As a race, we are a hard-working people ; a nation of wage-earners, 
yet high-strung and nervously organized. American habits, as well as 
climate, make the American breakfast a necessity. We cannot work 
on the delicate fare of the Frenchman, nor can we so easily assimilate 
the heavy food of the Englishman. 

The morning meal must be dainty, to tempt the appetite ; pala- 
table and nutritious, for after the night's fast the system requires such 
assistance, and before another meal the hardest part of the day's work 
is usually done. Yet the dishes must be simple, for less time can be 
given to their preparation than for those of the succeeding meals. 

Where the market is limited, the variety, which is often a physical 
necessity as the spice of life, is hard to obtain, unless resource be had 
in the different modes of preparing the same materials. Fruits in 
their season are more appetizing at breakfast than at any other time 
of day. Oranges, shaddocks, melons, berries, tomatoes and cucum- 
bers are all refreshing when properly served. The many good cereals 
are almost invaluable to growing children, and often scarcely less so 
to those of maturer years. These need to be occasionally varied, the 



10 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

many forms of maiae, oats, wheat and barley making this easily 
possible. 

The majority ®f the recipes given are designed for the use of the 
left-overs, especially the meat dishes. Meat choppers now make it 
possible to serve many things for breakfast formerly reserved for 
later meals, as well as to use much which the old-fashioned method of 
chopping could not mr.Ke palatable. Raw meat had to be chopped by 
the butcher. The tough end of the porter-house, which makes such 
good Hamburg steaks, was usually wasted. The "sound of the 
chopper" is heard no more in the land, but the housekeeper rejoices 
in a machine which pays for itself, in what it saves, in but a few 
weeks' time. 

Luncheon^ as the mid-day meal in the ordinary household, is far 
too often an indifferent affair. It is true that many things can be 
utilized for lunch which would be out of place at any other meal, or 
be actually thrown away as useless ; but this does not mean that the 
cold remains of last night's dinner can or should be served without 
disguise or embellishment. Luncheon is, in many places, peculiarly 
the woman's meal, and for this very reason sufficient care and thought 
should be expended upon it to tempt the delicate appetite and give 
the needed nourishment in an attractive form. 

Relishes are nowhere more acceptable than upon the luncheon 
table, but that which deserves the highest consideration for this meal 
is the utilization of the culinary odds and ends. Croquettes, souffles, 
meats for sandwiches, and all meat entrees become simplified by means 
of a meat chopper ; and the majority of dishes coming under the head 
d entrees are but different forms of hash or preparing minced meat. 

Supper, as the evening meal, has quietly accepted the neglected 
corner into which it has been thrust. Yet there are many homes 
where the evening dinner is undesirable or unknown, and these 
deserve attention. 

Except in the heat of summer, a hot dish should always be served 
for supper, as at the close of a day of work, with a night's fast before 
one, a cold meal does not offer sufficient nourishment. Soups are 
rarely served. Shell-fish served raw, or cooked in any form ; small 
fish, broiled or fried ; broiled steaks, chops or chicken, all these are 
acceptable, especially when a hearty supper is required ; but here, as 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 11 

with luncheon, made-over dishes are most often used. Potatoes, rice, 
hominy and tomatoes in special forms, such as croquettes, scallops, 
etc., are served ; other vegetables rarely, if ever. 

Eggs, salads and sandwiches in any form ; hot breads, griddle 
cakes and waffles, all these belong to supper, even if " digestion doth 
not wait on appetite " in case of some of the aforementioned. Gelatine 
jellies ; canned, preserved and fresh fruits, have a special place. 

A classified list of dishes for breakfast, luncheon and supper is 
given, with a few suggestions for menus, in anottter portion of the book. 



A Coffee Mill is a household necessity if one wishes good coffee. 
Ground coffee quickly loses its strength, and the amount required at 
any one time should be ground just before using. There is another 
reason for home grinding, too often overlooked by the consumer. You 
may purchase the best Java and Mocha, but the purchaser just before 
you selected an inferior grade of Rio ; his coffee was coarsely ground, 
yours is to be finer. The result appears in the next morning's cup of 
coffee, when the flavor of the rank Rio, grains of which have gone 
through the grinder with your better grade, is stronger than that of 
the other mixture. 

In selecting a Coffee Mill it is better to take one that stands on a 
shelf or table, as Nos. i or 2, than those screwed upon the wall. The 
former are more apt to be cleaned often, require less time to operate, and 
save all the coffee and its strength. The Coffee Mill should not be used 
for grinding spices, unless these flavorings are desired in the coffee. 

The fineness of the grinding is regulated by the thumb-screw at 
the end of the shaft. Put the measured coffee in the hopper, see that 
the receiving drawer or receptacle is clean, and turn the crank or 
wheel to the right. If grinding for drip coffee, tighten the thumb- 
screw so that the coffee is pulverized ; if for boiled coffee, loosen the 
screw accordingly. 

The grinders are strong and do their work evenly If, after con- 
tinued use, their working power be impaired a new »et can be put in 
at small cost, all the grinders being interchangeable, as well as all the 
other parts of any of the mills. 

Do not wash the mill, but keep it clean, wiping the hopper and 
drawer often ; wheels and working parts when necessary. 



12 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



The Enterprise 

Coffee Mills 



All our Family Mills are "Pulver- 
izers" and are especially adapted for 
making ' ' French ' ' Coffee. 




No* 00, $t.25 

Capacity of Hopper, 
4 oz. Coffee. 




No* 0, $1.50 

Capacity of Hopper 
4 oz. Coffee. 



The Mills shown on this 
page will grind 6 oz. Coffee 
per minute. 



No. U $2.25 

Capacity of Hopper, 
4 oz. Coffee. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



13 



The Enterprise 

Coffee Mttls 




No* 2, $3.50 

Capacity of Iron Hopper, 

4 oz. Coffee. 

Will grind 6 oz. Coffee 

per minute. 



Highly ornamented and 
handsome in appearance. 



Grinders warranted equal 
to steel. 




No. 2 >^, $4.50 

Capacity of Nickel-plated 

Hopper, 7 oz. Coffee. 

Will grind 6 oz. Coffee 

per minute. 




No. 3, $5.00 

Capacity of Iron Hopper, 
y^ lb. Coffee. 

Will grind ^ lb. Coffee 
per minute. 



14 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

COFFEE 

There seem to be as many variations in the making of coffee as 
there are grades of the raw material, and all supplied by the same 
person. Java and Mocha are usually considered the best varieties, and 
the proportion of two-thirds Java to one-third Mocha seems agreeable 
to most people. It must be remembered, however, that each variety 
of coffee has different grades, and the best assurance of good quality 
is the name of a reputable dealer on a certain grade or mixture of 
coffee of which he has made a specialty. The best quality of coffee 
can be spoiled in the making, and while that seems to be a very simple 
operation, to have it always right is one of the difficulties of house- 
keeping. It is, ordinarily, better to purchase roasted coffee, for much 
of the flavor depends upon the evenness and degree of this process, 
and few homes have the facilities for doing it properly. Keep it in air- 
tight cans and grind as needed for use, for ground coffee loses its 
strength, even when kept most carefully. The Enterprise CofTee Mills 
have gauges with which to regulate the fineness or coarseness of the 
grinding, and this depends upon the method of making employed. For 
an infusion, the coffee should be pulverized ; for a decoction, ground 
more coarsely. Too good care cannot be taken of the coffee-pot, which 
should be of granite-ware or porcelain, and kept scrupulously clean. 

The proportions remain the same, one heaping tablespoonful of 
coffee to one cup of boiling water, whether drip or boiled coffee is to 
be made ; but something does depend upon the number of people. 
One-half cupful of ground coffee and one quart of water will make 
coffee for five people, but for one person one tablespoonful of coffee 
and one cupful of water will not suffice, for the old idea of allowing 
so much for the pot has reason in its being. 

Drip Coffee 

Scald the coffee-pot and see that it is thoroughly heated. Grind 
the coffee to a fine powder. Have the water boiling, but use it at its 
first boil, before the gases have disseminated. Put the coffee in the 
percolator, and pour the water on the ui)per sieve. When there is 
much coffee to be made it takes some time for the percolation, and in 
order to have the coffee hot it is wise to stand the pot in hot water 
during the process Drip coffee must be served at once 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 15 

Boiled Coffee 

Scald out the coffee-pot, and see that it is thoroughly heated. 
Grind the coffee, put it in the coffee-pot, add the water boiling, cover 
the spout and let the water come to the boiling point. Stir in an egg- 
shell, crushed, and mixed with one tablespoonful of cold water. Let the 
coffee boil one minute. Let it stand where it will keep hot, but not 
boil, for ten minutes, and serve. 

To Make 'wUh Cold Water 

Mix the required amount of ground coffee with its proportion of 
water and let stand until ten mimites before breakfast is ready to 
serve. Let it come fully to the boiling point without the addition of 
hot water or egg and serve at once. 

EGGS 

For Boiling 

Put the eggs in a saucepan of boiling water, and let them stand 
where they will keep hot, but the water will 7tot boil, for ten minutes. 
This gives an evenly cooked, but soft-boiled egg, and the process simply 
has to be lengthened or shortened to produce a harder or softer degree. 

Poached Eggs 

Fill a shallow pan nearly full of salted, boiling water. As soon as 
the water simmers, not boils, slip in the eggs, one by one, from a cup or 
saucer into whic. Jiey have previously been broken. Dip the water 
over them with a spoon, that the yolk may be cooked. When the white 
is firm and a film has formed over the yolk, take out each egg with a 
skimmer. Drain well ; trim the edges, place on even rounds of toast, 
sprinkle with salt, pepper and melted butter, and serve at once. 

Omelets 

Break four eggs into a bowl ; beat until broken only. Add to four 
eggs three tablespoonfuls of cream or four teaspoonfuls of warm water 
and one teaspo9nful of butter. Put the pan over the fire, and when it 
is hot put in one teaspoonful of butter, tipping the pan that the butter 
may melt and run over it quickly. As soon as the butter is melted 



16 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

turn the eggs into the pan, shaking it gently to keep the eggs from 
cooking too rapidly on the bottom. As the lower part cooks, lift with a 
spatula, allowing the uncooked upper portion to run on to the hot pan. 
When the omelet is of a soft, creamy consistency, season with salt and 
pepper, tip the pan, slip the knife under the omelet and carefully roll 
it to the center. Let it cook a moment longer to brown. Should it 
not brown quickly, add a little butter, letting it run under the omelet. 
Turn out on a hot dish and serve at once. 

Parsley Omelet, — Add one teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley 
just before the omelet is turned or at the same time the seasoning is 
added. 

Scrambled Eggs 

4 eggs I tablespoonful of butter 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream Salt and pepper to taste. 

Break the eggs into a bowl, add the cream and beat only enough 
to blend the yolks and whites. Melt the butter in the frying pan, and 
when hot turn in the eggs. Do not stir until they begin to form, and 
then gently, lifting them up and over that the flakes may be large and 
the eggs tender and well cooked. As soon as the eggs are sufficiently 
set, remove from the fire and stir until dry. Season and serve. 

Scrambled eggs may be varied in the same way as omelets, 
adding chopped ham, parsley, mushrooms, minced chicken, veal or 
sweetbreads. 

Stuffed Eggs 

For 6 hard-boiled eggs take 

I cupful of finely-chopped cooked meat 

I tablespoonful of butter, melted 

% cupful of cream 

Seasoning to taste. 
Cut the eggs in halves. Carefully take out the yolks, put them 
through a press and mix to a smooth paste with the melted butter. 
Add the meat and the seasoning ; mix with the cream gradually, as it 
may not all be needed. When the mixture is of the proper consistency 
to stuff the eggs, season, fill each half carefully and make it even on 
top. Rub a little raw white of egg over the pieces and press them 
'together. Roll in egg and bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat. 
Serve with a cream sauce. 



THE ENTERPRISING H OUSEKEEPER 17 

Enterprise Meat Chopper 




THUMB-SCREW 



When purchasing a Chopper, have the merchant from whom you buy 
explain the method of taking apart and putting it together. Many- 
good articles are often condemned because of the ignorance of the user. 
The illustration represents the Chopper taken apart, each piece being: 
named. The feed screw is first inserted in the cylinder with the knife 
in position, as shown. Next adjust the plate in the opening of the 
cylinder, with the fiat side turned inwardly, care being taken that the- 
notch hi the plate fits into its corresponding place. Then screw on the 
ring, turning to the right, attach the crank, fastening same by means 
of the thumb-screw, and your Chopper is ready for use. 

Every Machine is fitted and tested before leaving the factory, and 
the parts can easily be put together. If they do not seem to fit, do 
not try to force them, but look for your mistake, A new Chopper 
should be cleansed before using, which can be done bypassing through 
it partially stale bread. After being used for cutting meat, take the 
machine apart and wash each piece carefully with hot water, and after 
drying over a stove, or range, put together and away in a dry place. 

To suit tRe different uses to which the Chopper may be put, 
plates are made with holes of various sizes, the one with -f^ in. holes- 



18 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

being standard and accompanies each machine. Plates with holes, 
either yi in., y\ in., or % in., can be purchased separately. 

Among the numerous uses are those for making sausage, mince- 
meat, hash, scrapple, Hamburg steak, hog's head cheese, croquettes, 
chicken and lobster salads, also for chopping suet, tripe, codfish, clams, 
vanilla beans, nuts, peppers, cocoanuts, horseradish, meat for beef tea, 
scrap meat for poultry, corn for fritters, stale bread and crackers for 
crumbs, carrots, turnips, parsnips and vegetables of any kind. 

It is preferable that the meat to be chopped should be first cut 
into strips. The small quantity of uncut meat remaining in the 
machine can be chopped by running through a second time some of 
the already cut meat. Our Choppers do not grind or tear the meat, 
but cut it as with a pair of scissors. It is impossible for any strings, 
sinews or gristle to pass through without being chopped clean and 
even. All parts are interchangeable, and can be replaced at small 
cost. The cutting parts being steel, they are vastly superior to the 
cast-iron ones of other makes of Choppers, 

Observe the following instructions : 

First. — Be sure the knife is in the Chopper with fiat side against 
the plate. 

Second. — Do not attempt to sharpen the knife or plate. When 
dull, send them by mail to the factory for resharpening. 

Third. — Always use the same knife and plate together, or in 
pairs. 

Fourth. — Screw the ring up moderately tight, so as to be percep- 
tible when turning the crank. 

Fifth. — Do not turn the crank backwards. 

Sixth. — See that the threads of the ring and on end of the cylin- 
der are kept free from m©at, etc. 

Seventh. — A plate with yk in. holes is the most suitable for cutting 
hash. 

Eighth. — In cutting tallow or vanilla beans, first run through a 
coarse, then a fine plate. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



19 



The Enterprise 

Neiv Meat and Food Chopper 



^nTINNED-^m^ 





No. 2— Chops I lb. per minute, $1.50 
No. 4 — Chops 1% lbs. per minute, 2.C0 
No. 6 — Chops 2 lbs. per minute, 2.75 

The progressive housewife will at once appreciate its worth for 
use in the kitchen every day in the year. 

These were designed with a view of making a Chopper so simple 
as not to require directions how to use, and therefore especially- 
adapted for family use. It is practically in two pieces^ hence no 
small parts to lose. Can be taken apart in a second and easily 
cleaned. Leaves no meat in the machine, consequently no waste. 
Keep Chopper clean, and dry thoroughly after using. If Chopper is 
cleaned by passing through stale bread or crackers, washing is unnec- 
essary ; simply wipe out, put together and away. 



20 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

SOUPS 

In no way can the smallest odds and ends of various things be 
used more satisfactorily than in the making of soups, even without 
stock. Stock adds to the nutritive value in some cases, but at certain 
seasons of the year delicate cream soups are more acceptable if not 
more wholesome. Clear soup, consomme, bouillon, etc., are less 
nourishing than stimulating, and for this reason are more commonly 
used at the beginning of a long or hearty meal. The heavier soups 
may form the main dish of luncheon or dinner. In the south of Ger- 
many they are served most acceptably, even for supper. 

When the soup is to form the main nourishment it must not be 
lacking in this requisite. Peas, beans, lentils ; the various cereals as 
rice, barley, sago, farina, macaroni ; single vegetables or mixtures of 
many, all may be added to stock, milk or water to make soup. A cup 
of beans or peas with a slice of onion, a pint of milk and a little care 
will make a delicious soup. One-fourth of a cup of chicken broth, 
with milk and rice will make another. Meat should be put through 
the chopper if it is to be served in the soup ; vegetables, chopped or 
cooked in water or stock and put through a sieve. 

Purfe of Clams 

25 clams I cupful of cold water 

I tablespoonful of butter 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 
I pint of cream % cupful of bread crumbs 

Pepper to taste. 
Drain the clams with the water, saving all the liquor. Put the 
liquor in a saucepan over the fire ; when it comes to a boil, skim. 
Chop the clams fine, add them to the liquor, let boil again and skim. 
Rub the butter and flour together until smooth and add to the broth 
with the bread crumbs ; stir and cook until it thickens. Press through 
a sieve, return to the kettle and when heated add the cream previously 
scalded in a farina boiler. Season and serve at once. Do not let the 
soup stand on the stove after adding the cream, as it is apt to curdle, 
and be careful in seasoning as the clams are salty. 

bisque of Oysters 

I pint of oysters i pint of milk 

I tablespoonful of butter i tablespoonful of flour 

Yolk of one egg Salt and pepper to taste. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 21 

Drain the oysters free from their liquor, adding sufficient cold 
water to make one cup of liquid. Chop half the oysters fine. Bring 
the oyster liquor to a boil, skim, add the chopped oysters and simmer 
ten minutes. 

Scald the milk ; rub the butter and flour together until smooth, add 
to the milk and stir until it thickens. Add the whole oysters to the 
03'ster liquor, and as soon as their edges curl remove all from the fire. 
Add the beaten yolk of the egg to the milk, take at once from the fire 
and mix with the oysters and their liquor. Season and serve at once. 

Turkey Soup 

I tablespoonful of butter i cupful of cream 

I slice of onion 3 tablespoonfuls of rice 

3 stalks of celery Salt and pepper to taste. 

Chop the onion, and brown in butter. Add the turkey carcass 
and any dressing left over, cover with one quart of cold water and 
simmer for two hours. Strain, return the broth to the kettle. Chop 
whatever meat can be taken from the turkey bones very fine, and add 
to the broth with the rice and celery also chopped fine. Cook for 
one-half of an hour, or until the rice and celery are tender. Add the 
cream, season and serve. 

Lima, ^ean Soup 

1 cup of lima beans 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

2 cups of milk i tablespoonful of flour 
I cup of water i small onion 

I bay leaf Salt and pepper to taste. 

Slice the onion and brown in the butter ; add the flour ; stir until 
smooth and brown. Add the water, bay leaf and beans, and cook 
twenty minutes, or until the beans are soft. Press through a sieve. 
Scald the milk, add the beans and cook until thickened. Season and 
serve. 

A few drops of celery extract, onion juice, a little catsup, Worces- 
tershire sauce, or curry powder ; any proper flavoring used with judg- 
ment gives variety and adds to the various soups. The coarser leaves 
and stalks of the celery may not be sufficient to give the right flavor 
to the soup, but a drop or two of celery extract will add just what is 
needed. Tomatoes can be used with great freedom, as they combine 
with so manf other things. Remember that a tablespoonful of meat, 
vegetable or cereal need never be wasted where soup is served everyday. 



22 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



FISH 

The "left-overs'* of boiled, baked or fried fish have many possi- 
bilities. Here, as with the majority of made-over dishes, the sauce 
plays the leading part and must be adapted to the kind of fish to be 
used. Ordinarily an acid sauce of some kind is most acceptable, as 
the juices of fish are alkaline and the palate craves the added 
acidity. This is especially true of such oily fish as salmon and blue 
fish. The white-fleshed fishes, whitefish, halibut, cod, haddock, and 
so forth, as well as most of the shell fish may be acceptably served 
with cream sauces. 

Fish Turbot in Shells 

2 cupfuls of cooked fish 4 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs 

Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs i tablespoonful of butter 

I cupful of cream or milk 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

I tablespoonful of chopped parsley Salt and paprica to taste. 

Scald the cream. Rub the butter and flour together until smooth, 
add to the scalded cream, stir until it thickens. Add the bread crumbs 
and cook, on the back part of the stove, or over hot water, for five 
minutes, stirring occasionally. Take from the fire, add the fish, 
parsley and seasoning. Mix gently, that the fish may not becomt 
stringy. Fill greased, scalloped shells or individual souffle dishes. 
Brush over the top with the beaten yolk of an egg and brown in a 
quick oven. This may be baked or browned in a single large turbot 
dish if desired. 

Fish Cutlets 

2 cupfuls of cooked fish meat, chopped fine 

1 cupful of milk or cream Yolks of two eggs 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 
I tablespoonful of chopped parsley Dash of paprica 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Scald the milk. Rub the butter and flour together until smooth, 
add to the scalded milk and stir until it thickens. Add the yolks of 
the eggs beaten light, take from the fire and mix gently with the fish. 
Season with the salt, pepper and parsley. Onion and celery extract 
may be used if liked. Cool, form into cutlets, cover with egg and bread 
crumbs and fry in smoking-hot fat. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 23 

Halibut a. U Detmonico 

2 cupfuls of cooked fish 3 tablespoonfuls of butter 

^ cupful of mashed potato i tablespoonful of cornstarch 

2 cupfuls of cream or milk Yolks of two eggs 

I tablespoonful of Parmesan cheese Salt and pepper to taste. 

Beat the potato until light and creamy, with the yolk of one egg. 
Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, add the cornstarch, stir until smooth. 
Add the cream, stir until the sauce thickens, take from the fire, add 
the remaining Qgg yolk, fish and seasoning. Fill a greased baking 
dish with alternate layers of potato and fish. Cover the top with 
bread crumbs mixed with the cheese and the remaining tablespoonful 
of butter, melted. Cook for twenty minutes in a quick oven. 

Codfish Balls 

1 cupful of salt fish 2 cupfuls of potatoes 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream i tablespoonful of melted butter 
I egg Pepper to taste. 

Wash and pick over the fish, shredding it into small pieces. Peel 
the potatoes and cut in quarters. Put the fish and potatoes together 
in a saucepan, cover with boiling water, and cook twenty-five minutes, 
or until the potatoes are tender. Watch them that they may not cook 
until soggy. Drain thoroughly, mash and beat with a fork until light. 
Add the butter, mix, and cool slightly. Add the egg, beaten without 
separating, and the cream, unless the mixture be too soft, adding 
gradually, as the entire quantity given may not be required. Make 
into balls, cover with egg and bread crumbs, and fry in smoking hot 
fat. If handled and fried carefully, these may be cooked if desired 
without the egg and bread crumb covering. 

Fish Hash 

Use the same proportions as given for codfish balls. The fish and 
potatoes may be cooked together the day before, drained, and left 
standing until ready to prepare for breakfast. Then heat and add the 
egg, butter and cream. Beat until very light and brown slightly in a 
frying-pan. Fold like an omelet, and serve on a heated dish. 

Salmon may be served as cutlets, or re-heated in a Sauce Piquante 
or Drawn Butter Sauce ; or may be served cold with Sauce Tartare. 

Cod may be re-heated in a Cream, Bechamel, Egg, Supreme or 
Drawn Butter Sauce. A few drops of lemon juice added to the above 
sauces or squeezed on the fish improves its fiavor. 



24 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

mEATS 

The most common mistake made in preparing left-over meats is 
in cooking them again, instead of merely re-warming. In the majority 
of recipes the re-heating is done in a sauce and upon this depends the 
flavor and success of the dish. When this is the case the sauce should 
be first made and the meat cooked in it only long enough to be thor- 
oughly heated and seasoned. Where cream sauces are used it is better 
and safer to put them in a farina boiler and then add the meat. 

The seasoning of re-cooked meats requires special skill, for the law 
of combination is by no means fixed. Veal and chicken are the 
easiest meats to re-cook, beef comes next, while lamb and mutton more 
often tax the resources. They need more palatable seasoning, and a 
little acid, like a chopped pickle or olive, or a tablespoonful of capers 
adds to their flavor. Game is usually cut in delicate slices, or minced 
and re-warmed in a brown sauce to which currant or other acid jellies, 
spices or condiments have been added. 

While the meats have been classified in the following recipes, they 
are, in the majority of cases, interchangeable. Croquettes can be 
made of beef, veal, chicken or turkey ; ragouts and curries of all the 
meats including game ; souffles of veal, chicken or turkey ; boudins, 
the same. Veal, chicken or turkey are usually re-heated in white 
sauces ; beef, mutton, lamb and game in brown. 

Where only a small portion of meat is left, the rice or potato 
border enables it to be served and adds to its appearance. Upon 
the appearance of "left-overs" depends their success, and special 
attention should be paid to their serving and garnishing. 

A meat chopper saves appearances as well as food, for unsightly 
and unpalatable pieces of gristle, long ends and unchopped pieces are 
impossible if it is used instead of the old-fashioned hand chopper. 

When meat is served on toast with or without eggs, it should be 
chopped very fine and the toast cut in even and attractive shapes and 
sizes. A good hash is delicious, but it needs strict attention to details ; 
meat and potatoes chopped together and warmed through do not con- 
stitute hash nor deserve the name. A chopper, like the Enterprise, 
should be selected which does not grind or tear the meat, but cuts it 
in even sized pieces with the nicety of scissors. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 25 

"BEEF 

Hamburg Steaks 

I pound of steak from the round 
I teaspoonful of salt i tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

Vz tablespoonful of pepper 2 or 3 drops of onion extract 
A very little thyme or sweet marjoram may be added if desired. 

Chop the meat fine, mix well with the seasonings. Form into- 
small steaks with the hand. Melt a tablespoonful of butter in the fry- 
ing-pan. When heated, put in the steaks ; let them cook slowly until 
done half way through ; turn over and cook the other side. Serve 
v;ith a brown or mushroom sauce. 

Cannelon of Beef 

I pound of lean beef from the round 
I egg I tablespoonful of butter 

1 teaspoonful of salt % teaspoonful of pepper 

2 drops of celery extract i teaspoonful of mixed spices. 

Chop the beef fine. Melt the butter, add to the meat, with the 
egg beaten light without separating, and the flavorings. Mix well, and 
make into a roll. Grease a piece of brown paper and roll around the 
cannelon. Put on a shallow tin or baking-pan and bake thirty minutes 
in a moderate oven, basting occasionally with melted butter. Unroll 
the paper and serve the cannelon with a sauce. 

Beef Spanish 

1 cups finely-chopped, cooked meat 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

I small onion i cupful of stock 

I cupful of tomatoes Salt and pepper to taste. 

Melt and brown the butter, add the onion, sliced, and cook until 
delicately browned. Add the f.our and brown, stirring all the while,, 
then add the meat. Add the stock and tomatoes and cook until 
thoroughly heated. Season .^nd serve on a hot dish garnished with 
timbales of rice. 

Beef Minced on Toast 

To one and one-half cupfuls of minced beef, take one cupful of 
brown or tomato, sauce. 

Make the sauce and season to taste with onion juice, catsup,. 



26 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



4 



curry powder, Worcestershire sauce or mushroom catsup. Add the 
meat ; stir carefully until well mixed and thoroughly heated, and serve 
at once. 

If eggs are to be served with the hash, cut the toast with a large 
round patty cutter. Put a thick layer of the minced meat on each 
piece and place a poached egg carefully on each. The eggs should be 
trimmed to fit the toast and must be poached while the hash is heating, 
so that all may be sent to the table piping hot. No matter how good 
the hash, it loses its flavor if served cold, and a cold poached egg is 
never acceptable. 

Cecils 

2 cupfuls of chopped, cooked beef i tablespoonful of bread crumbs 
Yolks of two eggs i tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter Salt and pepper to taste. 

Melt the butter, add the bread crumbs, and when well mixed, the 
meat, seasoned. Add the beaten yolks of the eggs and stir in a 
saucepan over the fire until the mixture is heated through. Cool, form 
into small round balls, cover with egg and bread crumbs and fry in 
smoking hot fat. 

Ne<w York Hash 

To every cupful of cooked, chopped meat take 
2 cupfuls of chopped potatoes 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

K cupful of boiling water or stock Seasonings to taste. 
For this, beef is most generally taken, although corned beef, 
chicken, turkey, veal or even mutton may be used. The cold meat 
should be chopped rather fine, and the potatoes not chopped until 
cold. Season the meat and potatoes , put the water and butter over 
the fire, and when the water boils again add the meat and potatoes. 
Nothing is better to cook hash in than an old-fashioned iron saucepan 
or spider. The difficulty of making good hash lies in the cooking, for 
it must be stirred, yet not too much, or it will be pasty ; the water 
should boil away, yet the hash must not be dry, nor yet watery. Let 
it cook, stirring occasionally, until there is a coating on the bottom of 
the pan from which the hash can be freed without sticking. Serve at 
once. 

Corned ^eef Hash 

may be made in the same way, or using equal proportions of chopped 
meat and potatoes, Many prefer a slight flavoring of onion, when it 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 27 

is advisable to use a few drops of onion juice or extract rather than 
the chopped onion itself. 

^aked Hash 

2 cupfuls of meat 2 cupfuls of potatoes 

I tablespoonful of butter 2 cupfuls of stock 

Seasoning to taste. 
Melt the butter in the frying pan ; add the stock and, when 
heated, the meat and potato well mixed. Season to taste and stir 
occasionally until well heated. Turn into a greased baking dish and 
bake thirty minutes in a moderately quick oven. 

Meat Cakes 

2 cupfuls of chopped cooked meat 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

3 tablespoonfuls of cracker crumbs i small onion 

• 2 eggs Salt and pepper to taste. 

Chop the onion very fine. Beat the eggs light without separating. 
Melt the butter, add to the cracker crumbs, mix with the eggs, meat 
and seasoning. Make into fiat cakes and saute in butter or dripping. 

Meat Sausages 

2 cupfuls of meat % cupful of pork 

2 level teaspoonfuls of pepper A pinch of thyme or sw^eet marjoram 

3 drops of lemon juice Yolks of two eggs. 

Use cooked meat and chop very fine. The pork should be 
measured after chopping and shouM be less rather than more than the 
amount given. Mix the dry seasonings with the meat and pork, and 
add the yolks of the eggs beaten light. When thoroughly mixed, 
form into small, flat sausage cakes and saute in a frying-pan. 

Corned "See/* Croquettes 

1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

2 cupfuls of mashed potato K cupful of cream 
2 cupfuls of finely-chopped, cold corned beef i egg 

Salt and pepper to taste. 
Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the potato and the cream, and 
stir until it is well mixed and heated. Add the meat, and the salt and 
pepper. Take from the stove, add the chopped parsley, and the egg 
beaten light without separating. Mix well, but gently, and put away 
to cool. Form into croquettes, cover with egg and bread crumbs, and 
fry in deep, smoking hot fat. These croquettes should be served with 
sauce. 



28 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

MUTTON AND LAMB 

Lamb Croquettes 

2 cupfuls of finely-chopped cooked lamb 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

I cupful of boiled rice i cupful of cream 

I tablespoonful of chopped parsley i tablespoonful of butter 

1 tablespoonful of lemon juice Salt and pepper to taste. 

Scald the milk. Rub the butter and flour together until smooth, 
add to the scalded milk and stir until it thickens. Mix the meat, rice, 
parsley and seasoning well together. Mix with the thickened milk and 
cool. When cool form into cone-shaped croquettes, cover with egg and 
bread crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat. 

Curry of Lamb 

2 cupfuls of chopped cooked lamb % teaspoonful of chopped mint 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

2 cupfuls of stock I teaspoonful of curry powder 

1 tablespoonful of orange juice Salt and pepper to taste. 

Brown the butter, add the curry powder, meat and mint, and cook 
ten minutes, or until the meat is well heated and seasoned. Add the 
flour, stir until brown. Add the stock and stir until the sauce has 
thickened. Season and serve in a rice border. In place of a rice 
border, one cupful of boiled rice and one of meat may be used, follow- 
ing the directions given above. 

Pilaff of Lamb 

% cup of rice 2 cupfuls of cold, chopped lamb 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

Boil the rice in plenty of boiling, salted water for twenty minutes, 
or until tender. Drain and mix with the finely-chopped meat which 
should be seasoned with salt, pepper and a few drops of celery extract. 
Add the butter, melted, and when the meat is heated turn the rice and 
meat into a greased tin mold. Place in the oven for ten minutes, or 
until the pilaff will keep its form when turned out of the mold. Serve 
with tomato sauce. 

Mutton Scallop 

2 cupfuls of finely-chopped cooked meat 14. cupful of bread crumbs 
I cupful of tomato sauce 1 tablespoonful of butter 

Melt the butter, add the bread crumbs and stir until they are 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 29 

thoroughl}' greased. Season the meat with salt, pepper, a drop or two 
of onion juice or other suitable seasoning. Fill a greased baking dish 
with alternate layers of the meat, sauce and bread crumbs, covering 
the top with the crumbs. Bake twenty minutes in a quick oven and 
serve. 

Curry of Mutton 

2 cupfuls of chopped cooked mutton 

1 very small onion i teaspoonful of curry powder 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

2 cupfuls of stock I teaspoonful of lemon juice 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Chop the onion fine and brown in the butter with the curry pow- 
der. Add the flour, stir until smooth and brown. Add the stock and 
the meat, and when the sauce has sufficiently thickened, season and 
serve. One cupful of meat and one of vegetables may be used, lima 
beans or peas giving the best flavor. 

Mutton Ragout 

2 cupfuls of cold chopped meat i teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce 
I tablespoonful of butter i tablespoonful of flour 

I cupful of stock I tablespoonful of catsup 

Salt and pepper to taste. 
Melt and brown the butter, add the flour, stir until smooth and 
brown. Add the stock ; cook until it thickens. Add the mutton, 
turn into a farina boiler and cook for twenty minutes. When ready to 
serve, add the Worcestershire sauce and catsup ; season further, if 
necessary, and serve. 

VEAL 

Souffle 

2 cupfuls of chopped cooked veal 3 eggs 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

I cupful of milk i cupful of cream 

I tablespoonful of chopped parsley Seasonings to taste. 
Melt the butter without browning, add the flour, stir until smooth. 
Add the cream and milk ; stir until it thickens. Add the veal to the 
sauce and, when it is thoroughly heated, add the beaten yolks of the 
eggs. Take from the fire and cool. When ready to use, beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff, dry froth ; mix them gently with the meat 



30 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



and sauce. Turn into a greased baking dish and bake for twenty! 
minutes in a hot oven. 

Boudins 

2 cupfuls of finely-chopped cooked veal 

I tablespoonful of butter i teaspoonful of salt 

I tablespoonful of chopped parsley Whites of three eggs 

]4. cupful of cream 14 teaspoonful of pepper 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff, dry froth. Melt the butter, 

add to the meat, with the parsley, salt and pepper. Add the cream 

by degrees, mashing the meat as fine as possible, and, when well 

mixed, add carefully the beaten whites of the eggs. Fill greased 

individual souffle tins two-thirds full, place them in a baking pan half 

filled with boiling water, and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

Blanquette of Veal 

I tablespoonful of butter i tablespoonful of flour 

I cupful of stock I cupful of cream 

Yolks of two eggs 12 button mushrooms 

I tablespoonful of chopped parsley Salt and pepper to taste 

2 cupfuls of finely-chopped cooked veal 
Melt the butter without browning, add the flour and stir until 
smooth. Add the liquid, and when the sauce begins to thicken add 
the meat and the mushrooms cut in pieces. Stir until the sauce 
thickens, and when ready to serve, add the yolks of the eggs beaten 
light, and the parsley. Stir the eggs gently into the sauce, cooking 
for one minute only. Long standing, or too long cooking, cooks the 
eggs too much so they separate from the sauce. The blanquette may 
be garnished with whole mushrooms which have been heated in their 
own liquor. 

The above recipe may be used for making veal patties or the 
filling of bouche cases. In that case they would be more delicious if 
part sweetbreads were used with the chopped veal. 

Veal Loaf 

3 pounds of veal % pound of ham 

3 eggs 3 tablespoonfuls of cream 

}i cupful of butter i teaspoonful of onion juice 

1 teaspoonful of black pepper H teaspoonful of allspice 

2 teaspoonfuls of salt 2 teaspoonfuls of summer savory 

% cupful of fine bread or cracker crumbs. 



i 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 31 

Chop the veal and ham very fine. Beat the eggs, without separ- 
ating, until light, and melt the butter. Mix the veal, ham, crumbs 
and seasonings well together ; add the eggs, and when well mixed, the 
cream and melted butter. Mix thoroughly. Press into a mold pre- 
viously wet with cold water, and turn out carefully onto a flat baking 
pan. Bake for two hours in a moderate oven, basting occasionly with 
melted butter. 

CHICKEN AND TURKEY 

Croquettes 

2 cupfuls of finelj'-chopped cooked meat 
I cupful of milk 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley 

1 tablespoonful of butter 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

Seasonings to taste. 

Scald the milk. Rub the butter and flour together until smooth, 
add to the scalded milk and stir until it thickens. Mix the parsley 
and other seasonings with the meat, add to the thickened milk and 
mix thoroughly. Cool, form into cone-shaped croquettes, cover with 
egg and bread crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat. 

Cold beef, veal, mutton, chicken and turkey are all used for 
croquettes, the seasonings varying with the meats. Beef and mutton 
should be more highly seasoned, using onion extracts, herbs, curry, 
paprica, etc., to taste. Veal, chicken and turkey may have celery 
extract, lemon juice, chopped mushrooms, truffles and sweetbreads 
mixed with them. 

deviled Chicken 

2 cupfuls of finely-chopped cooked chicken 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs 
^2 cupful of cream 2 hard-boiled eggs 

3 drops of onion extract 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Melt the butter, add the bread crumbs, chicken and cream ; stir 
until the mixture is heated. Add the egg, the yolks and whites pressed 
through a sieve, the parsley and seasoning. Mix well ; take from the 
fire, put in shells or individual souffle dishes, cover with greased bread 
crumbs and brown in a quick oven. Curry powder, paprica, and 
other seasonings may be added at will. 



1 



32 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



Chicken a. la. Terrapin 

I pint of finely-chopped cooked chicken 
3 tablespoonfuls of butter i tablespoonful of flour 

3 hard-boiled eggs i cupful of cream 

1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley Salt and pepper to taste 
Melt the butter, add the flour, stir until blended ; add the chicken 

and the cream. Stand over hot water or in the farina boiler, and 
when the mixture is thoroughly heated add the yolks of the eggs put 
through a press and rubbed smooth with a little of the cream. Add 
the whites chopped fine, and let the mixture come to boiling point. 
Season and serve. 

Creamed Chicken 

2 cupfuls of chopped cooked chicken 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 
I cupful of milk i cupful of cream 

Yolk of one egg i tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and stir until smooth. Add the 
milk and cream ; stir until it begins to thicken, turn into a farina boiler 
and add the chicken. When thoroughly heated, add the yolk of the 
egg and parsley. Mix, season to taste, and serve on toast or in a 
potato border. 

Timbales of Chicken 

Vq. cupful of cream Whites of four eggs 

1 tablespoonful of finely-chopped truffles 

2 cupfuls of the cooked white meat of the chicken 

Salt and pepper to taste 
Chop the meat very fine, and pound it to a smooth paste, adding 
the cream gradually. When well mixed, season and add the truffles. 
Then add, one at a time, the unbeaten whites of two of the eggs, mix- 
ing the first with the paste until it has disappeared, before adding the 
second. Beat the remaining whites to a stiff, dry froth and stir them 
carefully into the mixture. Fill greased timbale molds half full of the 
chicken paste, place them in a pan of hot water (the water should 
come up as far on the outside of the tins as the paste fills the inside). 
Bake in a moderately hot oven for twenty or thirty minutes, the time 
depending upon the size of the molds. If a single large mold is used 
the timbale will have to bake as long as thirty-five or forty minutes. 
Serve hot with a cream mushroom sauce. 



THE ENTERPRISING HO USEKEEPER 33 

GAME 

Salmi of Game 

I tablespoonful of butter i tablespoonful of flour 

I cupful of stock I teaspoonful of catsup 

yi teaspoonful of lemon juice 6 button mushrooms 

2 or 3 drops of onion extract 

I cupful of cooked duck, cut in even, delicate pieces. 

Melt and brown the butter, add the flour and stir until browned. 
Add the stock, stir until it begins to thicken, then add the meat and 
mushrooms. Stir gently until thoroughly heated and when ready to 
serve add the catsup, onion extract and lemon juice. Season to taste 
with salt and pepper and serve. 

Hashed Wild Duck 

I tablespoonful of butter i tablespoonful of flour 

I cupful of stock I tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

I tablespoonful of -mushroom catsup % cupful of port wine 
I cupful of finely-chopped cooked duck 
Pepper and salt. 

Melt and brown the butter, add the flour, stir until browned. Add 
the stock and duck. Cook until thoroughly heated, then put in a 
farina boiler. Five minutes before the hash is to be served add the pars- 
ley, catsup and wine. Let stand only until heated and serve on toast 
or with croutons. 

Grouse Kromesquies 

I tablespoonful of butter i egg 

I cupful finely-chopped cooked grouse 
I cupful finely-chopped ham or tongue. 

Melt the butter, add the grouse and ham, and season to taste. 
Mix with the egg, and moisten with stock only if necessary. Make 
into small flat cakes and saute in hot fat. 

Curried Rabbit 

I cupful of finely-chopped cooked rabbit meat 
K teaspoonful of onion juice i teaspoonful of curry powder. 

Make a brown sauce, add the rabbit meat and season with the 
curry powder and onion juice. When thoroughly heated serve 
with rice. 



34 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



1 



Molded Ham and Eggs 

Chop one cupful of cold boiled ham fine. Mix with it one-half 
cupful of cream sauce and the white of one egg beaten frothy only, not 
light and dry. Mix well ; line greased individual timbale molds with 
the mixture, break a raw egg carefully in the centre of each one and 
bake for ten minutes in a moderately quick oven. If baked in tin 
molds it will be necessary to turn out before serving, but this is so 
difficult to do without breaking the eggs it is wiser to use shirred 
egg or the china souffle dishes, in which they may be served. If turned 
out, serve with sauce. 

Ham Canapes 

1 cupful of chopped boiled ham ^4, cupful of cream 

2 tablespoonfals of Parmesan cheese Paprica to taste. 

Cut bread into slices one-fourth of an inch thick, and with a French 
cutter into circles. Fry to a delicate brown in smoking hot, deep fat. 

Pound the ham to a paste, adding the cream as needed. Season 
with the paprica, or cayenne pepper if preferred. Spread the mixture 
on the fried bread, sprinkle the cheese over the top, and brown in a 
hot oven. 

Ham Relish 

I cupful of cold boiled ham, chopped fine 

H cupful of cream 3 hard-boiled eggs 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Scald the cream. Rub the yolks of two eggs smooth with a little 
of the cream ; add to the cream in the farina boiler with the ham. 
Press the whites of the two eggs through a sieve, add to the mixture, 
and when thoroughly heated put on a hot dish. Slice the remaining 
egg over the ham and serve. 

Ham Toast 

I cupful of cold boiled ham, chopped fine 
Yolk of one egg M cupful of cream 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Scald the cream, add the beaten yolk, stir until it thickens. Add 
the ham, and when heated, season and serve on toast. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 35 

Ham Paities 

I cupful of finely-chopped cooked ham 
% cupful of fine bread crumbs i tablespoonful of butter 

% cupful of milk i teaspoonful of salt 

K teaspoonful of pepper. 

Mix the meat with the bread crumbs and seasonings ; add the 
butter, melted. Moisten with the milk, and half fill greased patty pans 
with the mixture. Break one egg carefully on the top of each, sprinkle 
with a little salt and pepper, and cover with fine bread or cracker 
crumbs. Bake eight minutes m a quick oven. Serve at once. 

Sausages 

2 pounds of lean fresh pork 3 teaspoonfuls of sifted sage 

1 pound yh/ fresh pork 2 teaspoonfuls of white pepper 

3 teaspoonfuls of salt ]i teaspoonful of allspice 

Chop the meat, fat and lean together, very line, and mix thoroughly 
with the seasonings. Make cotton bags the desired shape and length ; 
dip them in a strotig brine and dry. Attach the sausage stuffer to the 
meat chopper, and with it press the meat into the bags as closely as 
possible ; tie the bags tightly and hang in a cool place. When usin^ 
sausage from these the end should be turned back and after the desired 
amount has been cut off, tie closely aga»in. Cut the sausage in slices 
and saute until brown. 

Scrapple 

Separate one small hog's head into halves. Take out the eyes 
and brains ; scrape and thoroughly clean the head. Put it into a large 
kettle, cover with four or five quarts of cold water, and simmer gently 
for two or three hours, or until the meat falls from the bones. Skim 
the grease carefully from the surface, remove the meat, chop fine, and 
return it to the liquor. Season it with one teaspoonful of powdered 
sage, salt and pepper. Sift in granulated, yellow corn meal, stirring 
constantly until it is the consistency of soft mush. Cook slowly for 
one hour, watching carefully, as it scorches easily. When cooked, 
pour into a greased, oblong tin, and put in a cold place. Cut in thin 
slices, and fry crisp and brown. 



36 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

mEATcAND FISH SAUCES 

The superiority of French sauces is due to the strong, finely- 
flavored, white stock used in their preparation. Many things take the 
place of this in the ordinary English sauces, but none fill it. The 
basis of most sauces is a roux made of butter and flour cooked 
together; for white sauces without browning, for brown sauces brown- 
ing both butter and flour before adding the liquid to be used. If 
certain simple directions be always adhered to, a delicious sauce may 
be served with little trouble, but nothing will show lack of pains and 
following the rule quicker than a meat sauce. The proportions always 
remain the same, no matter what kind or amount of sauce is to be 
made — a tablespoonful of butter and a tablespoonful of flour to every 
cup of liquid. For a white sauce the butter is melted without brown- 
ing, the flour added and cooked until blended without browning. For 
a brown sauce the butter is melted and browned, the flour added and 
thoroughly browned before the liquid is added. Never sprinkle in 
the flour ; put it all in at once ; stir with the flat of a spoon until 
blended and without lumps, and add the liquid at once — not by degrees. 

White Sauce 

I tablespoonful of butter i tablespoonful of flour 

I cupful of milk or white stock Salt and pepper to taste. 

Melt the butter without browning ; add the flour, stir until it is 
blended and smooth. Add the liquid, stir until it thickens, season 
and serve. 

This is the basis for a large quantity of sauces which are used 
with fish, boiled fowl, roast turkey and chicken, veal and chicken 
croquettes, sweetbreads, many vegetables and eggs in various forms. 

bechamel S^uce* — Use one-half of a cupful of stock and one-half 
of a cupful of cream. When ready to serve add yolk of one egg. 

Saxice Supreme, — Use one cupful of chicken stock, and when 
ready to serve, add the yolks of two eggs. 

Egg Sa.uce, — To the white or cream sauce add two hard-boiled 
eggs cut in slices, and one tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

cMushroom Sauce 

I tablespoonful of butter i tablespoonful of flour 

% cupful of cream Yo cupful of mushroom liquor 

% can of mushrooms Salt and pepper to taste. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 37 

Cut the mushrooms in halves with a silver knife. Proceed as 
directed for the white sauce, adding the mushrooms just as the sauce 
begins to thicken. They should cook only long enough to be heated 
through and the sauce be served at once. 

^roTvn Sauce 

I tablespoonfijl of butter i tablespoonful of flour 

I cupful of stock or water Salt and pepper to taste. 

Melt the butter and brown ; add the flour, stir until smooth and 
thoroughly browned. Add the stock, stir until it thickens, season and 
serve. 

It takes much longer to make a brown than a white sauce, as 
browning flour hardens the starch grains so they do not readily exj^and 
and thicken the sauce. 

From this sauce are made many, adding different flavorings, such 
as catsup, curry powder, Worcestershire sauce, etc. Brown sauce 
and its variations are served with dark-colored meats, game, ham, 
cutlets, etc. 

cMushroom Sauce, — To the quantity of brown sauce given above 
add one-half can of mushrooms cut in halves with a silver knife. Cook 
only long enough to heat through, as directed for the white mushroom 
sauce. 

Currant 'Jelly Sauce, — To the quantity of brown sauce given 
above, add one-half cupful of melted currant jelly. 

Curry Sauce, — To the quantity of brown sauce given above, add 
one teaspoonful of curry powder. 

Sauce ^iquante,— To the quantity of brown sauce given above, 
add two teaspoonfuls of vinegar, one tablespoon each of finely-chopped 
onion, pickle and capers. 

Tomato Sauce 

2 cupfuls of tomatoes 2 slices of onion 

I sprig of parsley i bay leaf 

I leaf of celery 2 cloves 

I tablespoonful of butter i tablespoonful of flour 

Put the tomatoes in a saucepan over the fire with the parsley, 

bay leaf, celery, onion and cloves. Simmer for twenty minutes. 
Press through a sieve. Melt the butter without browning, add the 



38 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

flour and stir until smooth. Add the strained tomato juice and cook, 
stirring gently until it thickens. Season to taste with salt and pepper. 

Dra'wn Butter Sauce 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter i tablespoonful of flour 
1% cupfuls of boiling water Salt and pepper to taste. 
Melt the butter without browning, add the flour and stir until 

smooth. Add the boiling water gradually, stirring all the while, and 
cook until it thickens. For a simple drawn butter sauce, when served, 
a tablespoonful of butter cut in small pieces is added. 

Ca.per Sauce* — Add two tablespoonfuls of capers to the above and 
cook until heated. 

Shrimp ^^t/ce.— Add to the above drawn butter sauce, the yolk 
of one egg and one-half of a cup of shrimps, cleaned and cut in pieces. 

Sauce Hottandaise 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter Yolks of two eggs 

Juice of one-half lemon % teaspoonful of salt 

K teaspoonful of white pepper i tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

Cream the butter ; add the yolks of the eggs, one at a time, and 
beat until well mixed. Add the lemon juice, salt and pepper; mix 
well. When ready to serve put the sauce over hot water, and cook, 
stirring all the time until it thickens. Serve at once. 

Sauce Tartare 

I cupful of mayonnaise dressing i tablespoonful of capers 
I tablespoonful of chopped pickles i tablespoonful of chopped parsley 
^A teaspoonful of onion juice. 
Mix the pickles, capers, parsley and onion juice carefully with the 
mayonnaise dressing just before using. Olives may be used in the 
place of the pickles if the sauce is not desired so tart. 

Beamaise Sauce 

Yolks of three eggs i teaspoonful of vinegar 

3 tablespoonfuls of white stock 3 tablespoonfuls of olive oil 
2 or 3 drops of onion juice Salt and pepper to taste 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until very light. Add the stock and 
the oil gradually, stirring all the while. Put over the fire in a farina 
boiler and stir constantly until the eggs have thickened. Take from 
the fire, add the seasoning, mix well, and put away to cool. This 
sauce is served cold. 



I 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 39 

MEASURING 

There may be — in fact, evidence proves that there are — good cooks 
who seemingly never measure anything, but by " about so much of 
this," and " a p.nch of that," bring about results so delicious that the 
would-be follower at once determines to throw rules to the winds and 
try the same way. Good cooks always measure — one by the cup and 
spoon, because she must ; another by the judgment and experience 
long years of doing the same thing over and over again have given 
her ; and the chances are that, unless you have the rare gift of cooking 
straight from the gods, you had better cling to exact measures and 
v/eights if you wish the best result every time, instead of once in a while. 

Dry ingredients such as flour, sugar, spices and soda should be 
sifted before measuring, unless the recipe states to the contrary. Many 
carefully-written and many-times-tried recipes fail from the lack of 
this little precaution, for a tablespoonful of unsifted flour will measure 
over twice as much after that process. The table-, dessert- and tea- 
spoons used for measuring should be of the regulation sizes made in 
silver ; the cup, the regulation kitchen cup, holding two gills or one- 
half of a pint. In measuring dry materials, a spoonful means that 
whatever is measured should round as much above the spoon as the 
spoon rounds underneath. When a level or heaping spoonful is 
desired, it is so stated in the recipe. A spoonful of liquid is the spoon 
full to the brim ; one-half of a spoonful should be measured lengthwise 
of the spoon, not across. 

A cupful is an even cup, leveled off — not shaken down — and 
accurate portions of the cupful may be found by using the measuring 
cups divided into thirds and fourths. These now come in glass, which 
makes accuracy easy. 

Table 

4 saltspoonfuls equal i teaspoonful 

4 teaspoonfuls " i tablespoonful 

2 teaspoonfuls " i dessertspoonful 

2 dessertspoonfuls " i tablespoonful 

8 tablespoonfuls of liquid .... " i gill 

6 tablespoonfuls of dry material . " i, gill 

2 gills " I cupful 

2 cupfuls or four gills " i pint 

4 cupfuls of liquid " i quart 

4 cupfuls of flour " i quart 



40 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



2 cupfuls of solid butter 



2 cupfuls of granulated sugar 
2% cupfuls of powdered sugar 
2 cupfuls of milk or water . 

1 tablespoonful of butter . . 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour . . 
2 tablespoonfuls of coffee . . 

Butter the size of an egg means 2 

A tablespoonful of melted butter is measured offer melting 

A tablespoonful of butter, melted, is measured before melting. 



equal i pound 



I pound 

I pound 

" I pound 

equals i ounce 

equal i ounce 

" I ounce 

tablespoonfuls or 2 ounces 



TIME-TABLES FOR COOKING 

The ordinary recipe should, and generally does, state the time 
required for cooking its ingredients, but an approximate table is occa- 
sionally of use as giving a general idea of the time required for certain 
things. In any case, it is approximate only, for things should be 
cooked until dojie, and many things modify the time stated. The 
atmosphere, altitude, kind of oven or mode of heating employed, and 
the age of certain things, such as vegetables, all have to be considered, 
so that hard and fast rules cannot be laid down. Cooking is like the 
German language — there are plenty of rules which must be learned 
and adhered to, but the exceptions and modifications are bewilder- 
ingly many, and experience and use are the best teachers. 

MEATS 
Roasting or Baking 

TIME 

Beef, ribs or sirloin, rare per pound lo minutes 

" " " " well done ... " 12 " 

" " " " boned and rolled " 12 " 

Round of beef " 15 " 

Mutton, leg, rare " 10 " 

" leg, well done " 15 " 

" loin, rare " 10 " 

" shoulder, stuffed " 15 " 

" saddle, rare " 10 " 

Lamb, well done . " 15 " 

Veal, " .... o ... . " 20 " 

Pork, " " 30 " 

Turkey •' 15 " 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



41 



Fowls per pound 

Chicken " 

Goose " 

Venison " 

Fillet, hot oven " 

Ducks, tame entire time 

Ducks, wild, very hot oven " 

Partridge " 

Grouse " 

Pigeons " 

Braised Meats " 

Liver, whole . " 

Boiling 

Mutton per pound 

Potted Beef 

Corned Beef " 

Ham " 

Turkey " 

Chicken " 

Fowl " 

Tripe " 



Broiling 



20 minutes 

15 

18 



. . . 15 

• . . 30 
45 to 60 
15 to 30 
30 to 40 

... 30 
... 30 

. . 3 to 4 hours 



. . . 15 minutes 

30 to 35 
. . . 30 

18 to 20 

. . . 15 



20 to 30 

. . 3 to 5 hours 



Steak, I inch thick 8 to 10 minutes 

Steak, 1% inches thick 10 to 15 

Mutton Chops, French 8 

Mutton Chops, English 10 

Spring Chicken 20 

Quail 8 to 10 

Grouse 15 

Squabs 10 to 15 

Shad, Bluefish, Trout 15 to 25 

Small Fish 5 to 10 



FISH 
Boil 



Halibut and Salmon 
Bluefish and Bass . 
Cod and Haddock . 



per pound 15 minutes 

" 10 " 



Bake 

Halibut, salmon, bass, bluefish, shad, etc., for one hour. 
Trout, pickerel, white fish, etc., for one-half hour. 



42 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

VEGETABLES 

Young peas, canned tomatoes, green corn, asparagus, spinach, 
Brussels sprouts — 15 to 20 minutes. 

Rice, potatoes, macaroni, summer squash, celery, cauliflower, 
young cabbage, peas — 20 to 30 minutes. 

Young turnips, young beets, young carrots, young parsnips, 
tomatoes, baked potatoes, sweet potatoes, onions, cabbage, cauliflower 
— 30 to 45 minutes. 

String beans, shell beans, oyster plant, winter squash — 45 to 60 
minutes. 

Winter vegetables — One to two hours. Old beets, forever. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Bread, baked 45 minutes 

Bread, large loaves 60 " 

Biscuits and small cakes 15 to 20 minutes 

Ginger Bread 20 to 30 " 

Brown Bread, steamed 3 hours 

Sponge Cake . .• 45 to 60 minutes 

Plain Cake , .... 30 to 40 " 

Fruit Cake 2 to 3 hours 

Cookies 10 to 15 minutes 

Thin Cakes, usually 20 minutes 

Baked Puddings 

Such as bread, rice, tapioca, sago and cocoanut, one hour each. 

Boiled Puddings 

Such as Indian pudding, plum pudding and huckleberry pudding' 
two to three hours each. 

Batter Puddings 

Such as cottage, etc., about forty-five minutes. 

In roasting or baking meats, the time should be computed after 
the first twenty minutes ; or after counting so many minutes to each 
pound add twenty or thirty minutes according to size of the roast to 
allow time for the meat to become heated. Meat should be basted 
every ten minutes unless covered in the braising pan. 

In baking fish do not put water in the pan. Lard or lay the fish 
on pieces of salt pork or fat bacon, and lay strips of the same on top. 
Baste with the drippings. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 43 

POTATOES 

Hashed Bro<wned Potatoes 

Cut three good sized potatoes into very small dice ; season with 
salt and pepper. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter into a frying pan ; 
when melted and hot add the chopped potatoes. Stir until the pota- 
toes are well piixed with the butter and have begun to be heated. 
Then push the potatoes over to one side of the pan and keep over a 
moderate fire, without stirring, for fifteen or twenty minutes. The 
potatoes should form together and brown in the shape of an omelet. 
When ready to serve, loosen them from the pan by carefully slipping 
a knife under them ; put a small platter over the pan and turn it upside 
down so that the potatoes will come out in a roll upon it. Chopped 
parsley may be added just before turning, if desired. 

Creamed Potatoes 

The best result is obtained by using freshly-boiled potatoes, stew- 
ing or creaming them while warm. This, however, is rarely done, as 
for breakfast potatoes boiled the day before are usually to be warmed 
over. Chop the potatoes in small dice, and to every pint of potatoes 
make a pint of cream sauce as follows : Melt one tablespoonful of 
butter, add one tablespoonful of fiour. Mix until smooth. Add two 
cupfuls of good milk, or, better, one cupful of milk and one of cream. Stir 
until the butter and flour are well mixed with the liquid, then add the 
potatoes. Put on the back part of the stove, and cook slowly, stirring 
only occasionally, and then with care, until the potatoes have nearly 
absorbed the milk. If stirred often or vigorously the potatoes will 
become mashed and pasty, yet care must be taken that the milk does 
not scorch. Season, just before serving with salt, pepper and a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley. If the salt be added to the potatoes 
before cooking in the milk it often curdles it. 

Baked Potatoes 

Select smooth potatoes of uniform size ; wash well. Bake until 
done in a hot oven, the length of time depending upon the size and 
age of the potato. New potatoes should be done in from twenty to 
thirty minutes, and for old potatoes the oven should be sufficiently hot 
to bake in from thirty to forty-five minutes. When testing, press 



44 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

them, but do not pierce with a fork. Potatoes should not only bake 
quickly, but should be served as soon as they are done, as standing 
makes them watery. 

Potato Cakes 

2 cupfuls of mashed potato 2 tablespoonfuls of cream or milk 
Yolk of one egg Salt and pepper to taste 

Beat the yolk of the egg light and add to the mashed potato with 
the salt and pepper. Add the cream if necessary only, for if the mashed 
potato be sufficiently moist the cream will make it impossible to 
handle. When well mixed form into small, flat, round cakes, and saute 
in hot fat or dripping. 

Potato Puffs 

I cupful of mashed potato 1 egg 

I teaspoonful of butter Yz cupful of cream or milk 

Salt and pepper to taste 
Beat the egg light without separating and melt the butter. Add 
to the mashed potato with the cream or milk. Season and beat until 
quite light. Fill greased popover pans half full of the mixture and 
brown in a quick oven. Take out carefully with a limber knife or 
spatula and serve at once on a heated dish. 

Potato Border 

I K cupfuls of mashed potato Yolk of one egg 

The mashed potato may be cold or warm, but in either case it 
should have been mashed with butter and milk as usual. Mix the 
potato with the egg yolk, beaten light, and season with salt and 
pepper. Press it into a well greased border mold and bake twenty 
minutes in a moderately hot oven. Let it stand in the mold for five 
or ten minutes before attempting to turn out. 

Rice Border 

1 cupful of rice 3 cupfuls of stock or water 

% M teaspoonful of salt 

Add the salt to the stock or water atid bring to boiling point. 
Add the rice carefully so as not to stop the boiling, and let it boil hard 
for twenty-five minutes. Stand the saucepan on the back of the stove 
for twenty minutes and, if the rice has not then absorbed all the liquid, 
drain. Press^mto a well-greased border mold and_bake in a moderate 
oven for ten minutes, or long enough to permit the rice to form. Turn ' 
ouf arid^serve'as a gairhlsh. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 45 

SALADS 

There is, perhaps, no dish which adds more to the luncheon or tea, 
than a nicely prepared salad. In many households a salad is consid- 
ered an expensive dish — something too good for family use, to be 
reserved for ''company." This is a mistake, for here, as elsewhere, 
the " left-overs " may be made to take their place and form appetizing 
dishes. Cauliflower, celery, peas, beans, spinach, cabbage, potatoes, 
beets, asparagus, tomatoes, the various greens, such as lettuce, corn 
salad, chicory, dandelions, cresses, all these and more may be used 
separately or in combination for salads. 

While nearly all meats, vegetables and fruits may be served as 
salads, the dressings are limited in kinds. Not only does the meat, 
vegetable or fruit to be used determine the mode of dressing, but the 
part the salad is to play in the meal has also something to do with it. 
If the salad be the main dish at luncheon or tea, it must be substantial 
and satisfying ; but if it be but an accessory it should be simple and 
refreshing, an appetizer only. 

Meat salads, occasionally fish and less often some few vegetables 
are dressed with a mayonnaise ; green vegetables are served with a 
French dressing. Fish, egg and meat salads are greatly improved by 
marinating, and for fish this first dressing should be acid. Green 
salads are wilted by remaining any length of time in the dressing, but 
many vegetables need to be marinated for flavor. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

Before beginning the dressing, chill the plate, eggs and oil, even 
the fork. Put the yolks of two eggs, carefully freed from the whites, 
in a soup-plate ; add one-half of a teaspoonful of salt and stir with a 
silver fork until the yolks are well broken and mixed ; add the oil, drop 
by drop, at first, being careful to always stir in the same direction. 
Add a drop of vinegar when needed, that is, when the oil and eggs 
show globules of oil, or, to use the common expression, the emulsion 
looks oily. As the mixture becomes thick, the oil may be added faster, 
always stirring, not beating, and adding only sufficient acid to keep the 
dressing from separating. Two eggs will easily take a pint of oil. 
Season with salt and red pepper, and lemon juice, if desired or neces- 
sary. When finished, the dressing should be thick and smooth and a 



46 THE ENTERPmSING HOUSEKEEPER 

perfect mayonnaise should not be strongly acid, as that destroys the 
flavor of the oil. 

French Dressing 

Use two-thirds oil to one-third vinegar. For every tablespoonful 
of vinegar and three of oil take one-half of a teaspoonful of salt and 
one-fourth of a teaspoonful of black or white pepper. Mix the salt 
and pepper with the oil and add the vinegar slowly, stirring all the 
while, until it becomes white and a little thickened.. The dressing 
must be used or served at once or it will separate. 

To Marinate is to cover with French dressing and allow to stand 
two or three hours. When ready to serve, the dressing not absorbed 
should be drained from the meat or vegetable marinated and the salad 
mixed with the dressing to be used> 

Boiled Dressing 

1 eggs I cupful of vinegar 

I teaspoonful of salt K teaspoonful of pepper 

Ya, cupful of butter ^ teaspoonful of sugar 

Beat the eggs light without separating ; add the vinegar, salt, 

pepper, sugar and butter melted. Mix well and put over hot water. 

Stir constantly until the dressing is thickened ; cool and serve. If too 

thick, thin with cream or olive oil, as desired. 

Russian Salads 

A Russian salad is but a mixture of cold, chopped meats, and may 
be varied atw. ' to suit the taste, or the exigencies of the situation. 
Beef, ham, tongu \ chicken, lamb, mutton and veal may all be mixed 
after being finely chopped, but it rarely happens in the home that all 
these meats are on hand. A mixture of chicken, ham and tongue, with 
mushrooms and anchovies, may be served on lettuce with a French 
dressing or sauce Tartare. Roast beef with anchovies make a very 
good salad, and veal, turkey or chicken with tongue another. Small 
pieces of cold game may be used and are delicious with a sauce 
Tartare. 

Macedoine Salads 

These are mixtures of vegetables and, as with the Russian salad, 
the mixture depends upon what you have on hand. Carrots, turnips, 
string beans and peas ; asparagus tips with string beans ; cauliflower 
and cresses ; potatoes and beets ; every little thing counts if used with 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 47 

care. A vegetable salad needs to be dressed carefully that it may look 
well, and the vegetables should not be broken hito too small pieces. 

Tomatoes may be stuffed with finely chopped meat mixed with a 
mayonnaise, or chicken and celery chopped and dressed together. 

Pickled lambs' tongues may be chopped and mixed with one-half 
of a cup of spinach or greens, and dressed with French dressing. 

Pieces of cold fish, even smoked and salt, may be utilized. 

Eggs may be stuffed with seasoned, chopped meat, and when served 
as a salad make a hearty and appetizing summer luncheon dish. 

Water cress and cabbage shredded together and dressed with a 
French dressing make an especially palatable salad. A mixture of 
one-third dandelion with two-thirds lettuce make another, and the 
celebrated Waldorf salad is but apple and celery chopped together 
and served with a French dressing delicately flavored with onion. 

Chicken Salad 

Chop cold, cooked chicken meat into even sized pieces, not too 
small. Select the tender stalks of celery, as the outer tough pieces 
will spoil the salad. Wash, scrape and chop into small pieces. For 
every tw^o cupfuls of chicken meat take one cupful of celery. Marinate 
the chicken and keep in a cool place until ready to serve. Mix with 
the celery. For every quart of salad take one cupful of thick mayon- 
naise dressing, mix gently with the salad, leaving sufficient to use as a 
garnish with lettuce leaves or celery tops. 

Lobster Salad 

Cut the boiled lobster meat into as even pieces as possible. Mari- 
nate and put in a cool place until wanted. When ready to serve, 
mix with shredded lettuce leaves and mayonnaise dressing in the pro- 
portion of one-half cupful of dressing to every pint of salad. Serve 
on curly lettuce leaves, garnished with the dressing and the powdered 
coral of the lobster if desired. Fish salads of any description should 
be served at once after mixing. 

Cold Sla<w 

Select a firm cabbage and shred very fine. Mix with a boiled 
dressing while the latter is hot and put away to cool. Serve when 
cold. Or the cabbage may be shredded and mixed with French 
dressing. 



48 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



SANDWICHES 

Sandwiches may be made of white, whole wheat, Graham or brown 
bread with any kind of meat, fish, salad, eggs, some vegetables, jams or 
chopped nuts, and spread with butter or mayonnaise dressing. The meat 
used in sandwiches should be chopped fine, )iul cut in slices, first for 
convenience in eating and serving, and secondly, because in this form 
only is it possible to properly season the sandwich. Fish sliould be 
flaked very fine with a fork, and mixed to a paste with the seasonings. 

The bread should not be too fresh to cut well, nor will actually 
stale bread make good sandwiches. It is best when about a day old, 
should be of fine grain, and be trimmed to good shape before the sand- 
wiches are cut. 

The crusts should not be left on, but removed, dried and put 
through the chopper for crumbs. The butter must be absolutely fresh 
and good, for in softening, that the bread may be properly spread, 
any foreign flavor or odor will be brought out. For meat, fish, salad, 
and egg sandwiches the bread should be cut in squares, oblongs or 
triangles ; for jam and nut sandwiches it is usually cut round. 

Meat Sand<wiches 

It is usually better to spread the bread with butter before cutting 
off each slice. This is not necessary when mayonnaise dressing is 
used. Chop the meat fine, season to taste with salt, pepper, chop- 
ped parsley, mustard if desired, onion or celery extract, or any of the 
various seasonings. Moisten, if necessary, with stock or cream, or mix 
with a small quantity of mayonnaise dressing. Spread the sandwiches, 
put together and serve. 

The white meat of chicken or turkey, or veal, after being chopped, 
may be pounded to a paste and mixed with equal quantities of the 
yolks of hard-boiled eggs, mixed smooth with cream or melted butter. 
Season to taste. 

Egg Sand<wiches 

Chop the whites of the hard-boiled eggs very fine. Mix the 
yolks smooth with well-seasoned mayonnaise dressing, add the whites, 
and spread on the bread. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 49 

Defiled Ham Sand'wiches 

I cupful of cold boiled ham Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs 
I teaspoonful of lemon juice K teaspoonful of mustard 
3 teaspoonfuls of melted butter. 

Chop the ham fine. Rub the yolks of the eggs smooth with the 
butter, mix with the ham, mustard and lemon juice, and season to 
taste. Spread on thin slices of bread. Fold together or roll. 

Fish Sand'wiches 

Fresh fish should be flaked fine, seasoned with salt and pepper, 
chopped pickle, lemon juice, celery or onion extract, and mixed with 
mayonnaise dressing, or moistened with a sauce. 

Anchovies, sardines or salt fish are better pounded to a paste and 
moistened with lemon juice. 

Vegetable Sand'wiches 

These are very refreshing with cold meats. Tomatoes, cucumbers, 
lettuce and water cresses are most commonly used. 

Tomatoes or cucumbers should be chopped and mixed with a 
mayonnaise. Spread the bread with butter, cut delicate slices, and 
spread with the vegetable. Put together and serve. 

Lettuce and water cress should be shredded. Spread the bread 
with mayonnaise, and mix the lettuce or w^ater cress with a French 
dressing. 

Vegetable sandwiches should be served as soon as possible after 
making. 

Cheese Sand'wiches 

Grate the cheese fine. Rub it to a paste w^th melted butter, 
season with salt and pepper, and spread on the sandwiches. 

S'weet and Nut Sand'wiches 

These ma}^ be made with marmalades, jam or jellies, anything 
•which will spread without running. Boston brown bread is generally 
used for nut sandwiches. Chop the nuts very fine or pound them to a 
paste, and spread on thin slices of bread. Lemon juice or extract 
flavorings may be used if desired. 



50 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



The Enterprise Cherry Stoner 




No* I, Japanned, 60 cents 

No. 2, J^^Tinned-^Sa 75 cents 

We recommend our Cherry 
Stoner particularly to those 
desiring rapid work. It can 
be adjusted by thumb screws 
to adapt it to the different 
sizes of cherry stones. 



The Ne%v 
Cherry Stoner 

Jg^^'Tmned'^^li 

No. 12, $1.00 

Our new Stoner is in- 
tended for stoning Cherries 
with the least possible cutting 
or disfiguring. Every house- 
wife will appreciate this for 
preserving purposes. 




Directions sent with each machine 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 51 

DESSERTS 

The most nourishing and easily digested desserts are those made 
of eggs, milk or cream, cereals and fruits. Pie is a national dish, and 
a Thanksgiving dinner a mockery without the creamy pumpkin or rich 
mince pie ; but those desserts which have a place at the family or 
formal luncheon are the delicate puddings, delicious creams and frozen 
dainties of which there seem to be endless variations. 

Here again the " left-overs " need to be taken into account. Stale 
bread and cake, a little jelly, a half cup of preserved or fresh fruit, 
one orange, a few chopped nuts, these and more are invaluable to the 
thoughtful cook. 

In the recipes given it has been impossible to avoid stating certain 
quantities, which are invariable only in the relations of liquids to 
solid matter. Keeping the amounts of cream, gelatine, etc., the same, 
a cup of crushed strawberries will often make as good a Bavarian 
Cream as the amount the usual recipe calls for. A mixture of berries 
may often be used when there is not enough of one kind, especially in 
making jellies. 

Nuts and fruits for use in creams should be put through the 
chopper. When only the juice is desired, as for use in a jelly, the fruit 
should be put through the press. Usually, ■ for the Bavarian or 
frozen creams, however, the pulp is also used, and this, unless properly 
crushed, forms in lumps, icy and unpleasant. Put the fruit through 
the food chopper, and it will blend as it should. 

Jellies should be clear and brilliant, and made with the sufficient 
gelatine to keep their form only. In summer a given amount of liquid 
requires more gelatine than in winter, and some fruit juices take more 
than others. 

English Plum Pudding 

I pound of flour i pound of raisins 

I pound of currants i pound of suet, chopped very fine 

I pound of sugar i teaspoonful of baking powder 

^ pound of candied lemon peel, chopped fine 

I nutmeg ; little cinnamon 

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt separately, then together. 
When well mixed, add sufficient cold water or milk to make a batter 



52 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



just thick enough to spoon into the mold. Leave room for it to 
raise. Cover closely and boil from four to six hours. 

Fig Pudding 

I cupful of suet 2 cupfuls of bread crumbs 

I pound of figs i cupful of sugar 

3 eggs 2 cupfuls of milk 

Wash, pick over the figs and chop. Chop the suet. Beat the 
-eggs light without separating. Mix all the ingredients thoroughly, 
turn into a well-greased mold, cover and boil three hours. Serve hot. 

Cherry Pudding 

1 tablespoonful of butter >2 cupful of sugar 

2 cupfuls of sour milk i quart of cherries 

I egg y2 teaspoonful of soda 

2 cupfuls of fiour, or enough to make batter as thick as for cake 

Stone the cherries. Beat the egg light without separating, add 
the sugar gradually and, when light, the butter, melted. Dissolve the 
soda in a little warm water, add to the sour milk, and add this to the 
batter alternately with the flour. Beat until light and smooth, add the 
cherries, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. 

Fruit Tapioca. 

2 tablespoonfuls of tapioca Vi cup of cold water 

2 cupfuls of milk Yolks of two eggs 

^ cup of sugar i cupful of peaches 

Pinch of salt 2 or 3 drops of vanilla 

Soak the tapioca in the cold water for one hour. Put the peaches 
through the press or chopper. Scald the milk, add the tapioca and 
cook until clear. Add the yolks of the eggs beaten light with the 
sugar ; cook for five minutes, take from the fire, add the fruit, salt and 
vanilla. Mix well and cool. Other fruits or a mixture of several may 
be used at pleasure. 

Molded Farina 

I cupful of milk 3 tablespoonfuls of farina 

I cupful of strawberries K cupful of sugar 

Scald the milk, add the farina and cook until it thickens. Add a 

pinch of salt. Put the strawberries through the press, or chopper, 

mix well with the sugar and add to the hot farina. If preserved fruit 

be used it will require no sugar. Let the farina stand until it begins 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 53- 

to cool before turning into individual molds previouslj^ wet with cold 
water. Serve with cream. 

Plum Pudding Jelly 

14. box of gelatine i ounce of chocolate or cocoa 

I cupful of sugar 2 cupfuls of milk 

I cupful of raisins % cupful of currants 

X cup of sliced citron. 
Cover the gelatine with one-half of a cup of cold water and let 
stand for half an hour. Put the raisins through the seeder. Carefully 
clean the currants and slice the citron. Cover the fruit with one 
tablespoonful of orange juice or sweet wine. Scald the milk, add the 
sugar and stir until dissolved. Melt the chocolate over hot water and 
add to the scalded milk. Dissolve the gelatine over hot water, strain 
into the milk and remove from the fire. Let the pudding stand until 
it begins to form before adding the fruit. Stir it gently until well 
mixed and the jelly has formed sufficiently so the fruit will not settle ta 
the bottom. Turn into a mold previously wet with cold water, and put 
away to harden. Serve with whipped cream. 

Fruit Ba.'varian Cream 

Put the fruit, whether canned or fresh, through the fruit press, as 
this separates the juice and seeds without straining. In using canned 
or preserved fruits, be careful as to the proportion of sugar, for if the 
fruit be rich enough no additional sweetness will be required. 
2 cupfuls of fruit juice H box of gelatine 

% cupful of cold water i pint of cream 

I tablespoonful of sherry, or 
I teaspoonful of lemon juice mixed with one tablespoonful of orange juice 
Sweeten to taste. 
Cover the gelatine with cold water and let it soak for a half-hour ; 
dissolve over hot water. Add the gelatine, sugar and flavoring to the 
fruit juice, and stir until it begins to thicken. Add the cream, whip- 
ped to a stiff froth, and mix thoroughly, but without beating. Turn 
into a mold previously wet with cold water, and put away to harden 
before serving. 

If the fruit juice be added to the cream before it has begun to 
thicken it is almost impossible Xq keep it from settling. Strawberries, 
raspberries, pineapple, peaches,, apricots, and oranges are the fruits 
generally used. 



54 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



Lemon Jelly 

% box of gelatine >2 cup of cold water 

2 cupfuls of boiling water i cupful of sugar 

K cupful of lemon juice i tablespoonful of sherry 

K cupful of orange juice. 
Cover the gelatine with cold water and let it stand for half an hour. 
Pour over it the boiling water, add the sugar and stir until the gelatine 
and sugar are dissolved. Add the lemon and orange juice and the 
wine ; strain through a cloth or filter paper, if necessary. Turn into 
a mold previously wet with cold water and put away to harden. 

In making gelatine jellies a blending of flavors is usually more 
acceptable than to use a single one. A wine jelly should have orange 
and lemon juice in its composition, the flavor of the wine predomi- 
nating. In orange jelly, the orange flavor should be strongest, and so on. 
Strawberry, raspberry, sherry, pineapple and quince jelly all can 
be made from the above recipe, modifying the amount of ingredients 
accordingly. Cherries and pineapple will take more gelatine and no 
lemon juice, or the jelly will be too acid. Strawberries need a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice only, raspberries and quinces require two. 

Russian Jelly 

]4. box of gelatine V2 cuj) of cold water 

1 cupful of boiling water iH cupfuls of sugar 

}i cup of lemon juice >^ cup of orange juice 

2 tablespoonfuls of wine >^ cupful of canned or preserved 

fruit or berries. 
Put the berries, if fresh, through the press, and cover with one- 
half cup of the sugar. Cover the gelatine with the cold water and let 
it stand one-half hour. Add the boiling water, and when the gelatine 
is dissolved, add the sugar, fruit juices and wine. As soon as the 
jelly begins to harden, whip with a wire beater until the whole mass 
is frothy like snow pudding. Put away in mould previously wet with 
cold water, to harden. 

Frozen Pudding 

I cupful of milk 1 pint of cream 

Yolk of one egg i tablea|)oonful of cornstarch 

1 5^ cupfuls of sugar i cupful of raisins 

I cupful of preserved fruit K cup of chopped nuts 

I teaspoonful of vanilla Pinch of salt 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 55 

Scald the milk, add the sugar and stir until dissolved. Mix the 
cornstarch with a little cold milk and add with the beaten yolk of the 
egg to the scalded milk. Cook fully three-quarters of an hour, stir- 
ring occasionally. Take from the fire, add the tiniest pinch of salt, 
the vanilla, fruit and nuts. When cold, add the cream, whipped, and 
freeze. 

This recipe may be varied at will by tl>e use of different fruits and 
nuts, addition of citron, and the use of various flavors. Gelatine, one- 
half of a box, may be used in place of the cornstarch, and the pudding 
left to mold instead of being frozen. 

Frozen Macedonia. 

I cupful of canned or preserved pears 
I cupful of canned or preserved plums 
I cupful of canned or preserved cherries 
I cupful of canned or preserved pineapple. 
Drain the juice from the cherries-; put the other fruits through the 
press or chopper, and add the cherry juice. Sweeten to taste. If all 
preserved fruits are used no more sugar will be needed, but add one- 
fourth of a cup of cold water with two teaspoonfuls of lernon juice. 
The addition of the water and lemon juice are needed to balance the 
extreme sweetness of the preserved fruits, so sugar, water and lemon 
juice must be added to taste in accordance with the fruits used. 

Freeze the juice or pulp, and when nearly frozen beat in the 
cherries. Pack and let stand at least an hour, longer would be better, 
before serving. 

Fruit Punch 

% box of gelatine K cup of cold water 

2 cupfuls of sugar i cup of water 

I cupful of strawberry juice Juice of one orange 

I cupful of juice of preserved peaches, cherries or pineapple 

Juice of one lemon. 
Cover the gelatine with the cold water and let stand one-half 
hour. Dissolve over hot water. Cook the sugar and water to a syrup, 
which is until it spins a thin thread ; take from the fire and add the 
fruit juices and the gelatine. Turn at once into the freezer, but do 
not begin to turn the freezer until the punch begins to freeze. 
Let stand to ripen before serving. The fruits may be varied at 
convenience. 



66 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

Currant Ice 

2 ciipfuls of sugar i cupful of water 

3 cupfuls of currant juice Whites of two eggs 

2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 
Boil the sugar and water together until it spins a thread. Take 
from the fire, add the currant juice and strain. Turn into a freezer, 
and w^hen chilled, begin to freeze. When nearly frozen, add the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, with the sugar. Freeze until quite 
firm, pack and let stand to ripen before serving. 

Pineapple Sherbet 

2 cupfuls of water 2 cupfuls of sugar 

I tablespoonful of gelatine 
I pint of fresh, grated pineapple put through the press. 
Cover the gelatine with one tablespoonful of cold water and let it 
stand for one-half hour ; dissolve over hot water. Boil the sugar and 
water together for ten minutes, add the fruit juice and gelatine, and 
strain. Cool and freeze. 

The porportion of water to fruit juice is smaller in sherbets than 
in water ices, and the addition of the gelatine gives a light and smooth 
consistency not desired in an ice. Any fruit juice may be used in 
making a sherbet with the above proportions ; strawberry, raspberry, 
pineapple and orange juices being those most generally preferred. 

Fruit Ice Cream 

Put the berries through the press and use in the proportion of one 
cupful of juice to every quart of cream or custard. Sweeten to taste. 
Either canned or fresh fruit may be used, such as peaches, strawber- 
ries, raspberries, pineapples, apricots, etc. 

All fruit creams or any frozen mixture in which a variety of flavors 
are used must stand to ripen and blend before serving. From two to 
four hours is the usual time required. 

Macaroon, almond, walnut, cocoanut or brown bread ice creams 
are made with the proportions of two cups of any of the above to one 
quart of cream. 

The macaroons and brown bread should be stale and pulverized 
by putting through the meat chopper. The nuts may be chopped in 
the same manner. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



57 



The Enterprise 

Raisin and Grape Seeder 



Removes 
every seed 
without 
waste. 
A child 
can 
operate it. 




No. 36 — Size for families, 

Will seed a pound in five minutes 

No. 38 — Size for bakers, hotels, etc., 

Will seed a pound in one minute 



Seedin§f 
raisins 
a pleasure 
since the 
introduction 
of this 
marvellous 
little device* 



$ .85 
$2.50 



After fastening the Seeder to the table, set the rubber roller moder- 
ately tight against the toothed cylinder by means of the thumb screw 
(marked A). Be careful to see that the roller turns freely on its shaft. 

Wet the raisins and feed into the hopper, turning the crank at the 
same time. Remember the hopper viust not be filled, but the raisins 
sprinkled in only so fast as the roller will grasp them, which means 
only two or three at a time. 

If too much pulp comes with the seeds the rubber roller is not 
tight enough against the cylinder. 

The surface. of the roller should be kept clean and free from sugar, 
in order that the seeds may be extracted without wasting the pulp of 
the raisin. 



58 THE ENTERPRISI NG HOUSEKEEPER 

When the crank sticks or "turns hard" while in use, wash the 
machine by loosening the thumb screw and holding the Seeder under 
a stream of hot water. It is an accumulation of sugar from the raisins 
which causes this sticking, and the hot water dissolves and washes it 
awaj^ 

After using, clean in the same manner ; loosen the thumb screw 
and hold the machine under a stream of hot water and turn the crank 
backward and forward. Wipe and dry thoroughly before putting 
away. Too much emphasis cannot be laid upon this point with all 
household utensils and machinery. After using and cleaning, utensils 
must be thoroughly dried. 

If, after not having used the Seeder for a few days, the crank turns 
hard or will not turn at all, wash as above, as the trouble is caused by 
the sugar from the raisins sticking to the working parts. 

PASTRY 

Raisin Pie 

I lemon i egg 

I cupful of sugar i tablespoonful of flour 

% cupful of raisins. 
Select large, soft raisins, and seed. Cover with one cupful of cold 
water and soak two hours. Beat the egg until light with the sugar, add 
the juice and grated rind of the lemon and mix with the flour. Add the 
raisins and water in which they have been soaking, and cook until the 
mixture thickens. Bake in two crusts. 

Cocoanut Pie 

4 tablespoonful s of sugar 2 tablespoonfuls of corn starch 

2 cupfuls of milk 2 eggs 

% cupful of cream ^ of a cocoanut 

y2 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Grate the cocoanut. Scald the milk ; beat the yolks of the eggs 
light with the sugar, add the corn starch and mix with the scalded 
milk. Cook and stir until it thickens, take from the fire, add the 
cream and the cocoanut and put away until cool. Beat the whites cf 
the eggs to a stiff, dry froth, add to the custard with the vanilla. Bake 
the bottom crust, brush it over with the white of egg, put in the 
custard and brown in a quick oven. Let the pie cool before serving. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 59 

Cherry Pie 

I quart of cherries i K cupfuls of sugar 

I tablespoonful of flour. 
Stone the cherries saving all the juice. Add the sugar and the 
flour and stir until well mixed. Fill the pie plate, lined with pastry, 
cover with the upper crust and bake. When canned cherries are 
used, take only half the juice to the same amount of cherries, sugar 
and flour. 

Pineapple Pie 

I cupful of powdered sugar 2 eggs 

K cupful of butter i small pineapple 

Grate the pineapple. Beat the butter and sugar together until 

creamy, add the beaten yolks of the eggs and the pineapple. When 

well mixed, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff, dry froth, 

mix lightly and turn into the pie plate. Bake with an under crust only. 

Mince Meat 

2 pounds of lean beef i pound of suet 

1 quart of apples, measured after chopping 

3 cupfuls of raisins i cupful of currants 

y2 pound of citron K cupful of candied fruit 

K cupful of candied orange peel H cupful of candied lemon peel 

y2 cupful of molasses i cupful of sugar 

Grated rind and juice of i lemon Grated rind and juice of i orange 

2 teaspoonfuls of salt i teaspoonful of cinnamon 
14 teaspoonful of cloves % teaspoonful of allspice 
% cupful of brandy % cupful of sherry 

I cupful of cider. 
Chop the beef and suet very fine, and mix. Add the chopped 
apples. Seed the raisins, chop the candied fruit, candied lemon and 
orange peel, and slice the citron. Add to the meat and suet with the 
currants, spices and salt. Mix and add the sugar, molasses, lemon 
and orange juice ; when well mixed add the brandy, sherry and cider. 
It should stand several days before using to ripen or blend, and should 
keep all winter. Two cupfuls of hard cider may be used in place of 
the brandy and sherry, and the quantities of beef, suet and apples 
may be doubled to the amount of fruit given if desired. If this is 
(lone, be careful to add sufficient moistening, and remember that the 
liquor is added to keep the mince-meat, not especially for flavoring, 
as the quantity is so small that this is disseminated in cooking. 



60 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



The Enterprise 

Fruit, Wine and Jelly Press 



^5--TINNED=^i* 




No. 34, $3.00 

The illustration represents the Combination Fruit Press in opera- 
tion. Its principle is very simple ; it is easily operated and saves 
rehandling, as it extracts the juice and ejects the skins and seeds 
in one operation. 

It may be used for many purposes, such as making wines, jellies 
and fruit butters from grapes, strawberries, raspberries, blackberries, 
gooseberries, currants, quinces, pineapples, etc. 

The dryness of pulp or refuse may be regulated by means of the 
thumb screw at the outlet. 

When ready to use, loosen the brass adjusting screw at the 
end (left) of the cylinder, so that the opening is free. Begin to press 
the fruit by turning the crank, and as the pulp reaches this opening, 
slowly turn or adjust the screw until the pulp is of the dryness 
desired. 

When using grapes or currants it is not necessary to stem them, 
and for the grapes it is advisable not to do so. 

After using the press, wash with clear hot water and a brush, 
wipe and d/y thoj-oitglily. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 61 



I 



FRUrr BEVERAGES 

Letnonade 

Squeeze the juice from the lemons, cut them in small pieces and 
cover with sugar. Let stand at least an hour, then press out the juice 
the sugar has extracted. The volatile, aromatic oil of lemons and 
oranges is in their skins, and twice as much lemonade of a better 
quality can be made in this wa}' than by the use of juice alone. 

Boil one-half of a cup of sugar with one-fourtli of a cup of water 
until it spins a light thread. Take from the fire, add one cup of lemon 
juice and the juice and sugar from the skins. Add water and sugar to 
taste and serve ice cold. 

Pineapple Lemonade 

I cup of sugar i cup of water 

1 cupful of canned pineapple Juice of two lemons 

Boil the sugar and water until it spins a light thread. Put the 
pineapple through the fruit press and add to the syrup with the 
juice of the lemons. When ready to serve, add water and sugar, if 
needed, to taste. Serve ice cold. 

Fruit Punch 

2 cupfuls of sugar i cupful of water 

yi. cup of orange juice Vz cup of lemon juice 

1 cupful of strawberry juice i cupful of pineapple juice 

M cup of Maraschino cherries. 
Boil the sugar and water to a syrup, and add the fruit juices. 
Let stand twenty minutes, strain and chill. Add the whole cherries. 
Sweeten or weaken, if necessary, to taste, and serve ice cold. It will 
rarely need reducing with water unless the juices of preserved fruits 
have been used. 

Cherry Syrup 

2 cupfuls of granulated sugar 2 cupfuls of cold water 

2 cupfuls of cherry juice. 

Stone the cherries. Dissolve the sugar in the water, add the 
cherries and their juice, and cook for ten minutes. Take from the fire 
and put through the press. Return to the fire and boil until a thick 
syrup is formecj. Seal when hot. Serve with shaved ice, thinning 
with cold water to taste. 

Raspberry, strawberry, pineapple and blackberry syrup may be 



€2 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



made in the same manner. When berries are used, it is better to put 
first through the press and strain before cooking. 

blackberry Cordial 

To one quart of blackberry juice, extracted by the fruit press, 
take 

2 teaspoonfuls of ground cloves 4 teaspoonfuls of ground cinnamon 
I teaspoonful of mace i teaspoonful of allspice 

I quart of syrup, made as directed. 

Add the fruit juices and spices to the syrup and boil until a syrup 
is formed. Take from the fire and cool. When cool add one pint of 
brandy to every quart of fruit juice used ; strain through a muslin 
bag, bottle and cork. 

Raspberry Shrub 

F or every cupful of fruit juice take one-half cupful of cider vine- 
gar and two cupfuls of sugar. Put the fruit juice, sugar and vinegar 
over the fire, stir until the sugar dissolves and boil to a thick syrup. 
Skim, if necessary, strain and bottle. 

All fruit juices are used in the same manner. When served, allow 
one-fourth cupful of syrup to three-fourths cupful of ice water. Should 
the syrup be too thin, do not adhere to this proportion of water. 
Taste is the best guide. 

Elderblossom Wine 

I quart of elderberry blossoms 3 gallons of water 

9 pounds of sugar 3 pounds of raisins 

I yeast cake K cup of lemon juice. 

The blossoms should be picked carefully from the stems and 
the quart measure packed full. Put the sugar and water together 
over the fire, stir until the sugar is dissolved, then let it come to aboil 
without stirring. Boil five minutes, skim, and add the blossoms. As 
soon as the blossoms are well stirred in, take from the fire and cool. 
When lukewarm add the yeast dissolved in lukewarm water and the 
lemon juice. Put in an earthen jar and let stand six days, stirring 
thoroughly three times daily. The blossoms must be stirred from the 
bottom of the jar each time. On the seventh day strain through a 
cloth and add the raisins, seeded. Put in glass preserve jars and 
cover tightly. Do not bottle until January. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



63 



The Enterprise Ice Shredder 



For Shaving Ice Coarse or Fine 




No* 34, Nickel-Plated, 



50 cents 
$J.25 



Our Ice Shredder is operated by simply drawing the blade over a 
piece of ice, the pressure applied producing fine or coarse pieces, as 
desired. No necessity for taking the ice out of the refrigerator, as the 
cup can be filled from the side, end or top of a cake of ice without 
disturbing anything or wetting the hands. Its use will be appreciated 
for Fruits, Drinks, Oysters and Clams on half-shell, Olives, Celery, 
Radishes, Iced Tea, Sliced Tomatoes, etc., and many purposes in the 
sick-room. 



64 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

JELLIES AND RELISHES 

There is no "royal road " to nice things. To have thefln the 
housekeeper must take time and trouble, and yet much of both she 
can save herself by the use of proper utensils. Good preserves, jellies 
and pickles may be purchased, but they cost less and are usually 
better when made in the house. This is especially true when the best 
jise is made of materials and utensils. With cherry and raisin stoner, 
meat chopper and fruit press, spice mill and canner the labor of the 
canning season is greatly lightened. 

The richest juices of any fruit lie immediately under the skin and 
around the core. Here, also, is the gelatinous principle, without which 
the fruit cannot jelly. The housekeeper peels her fruit, because the 
jelly is apt to be less cloudy if she does so, but by so doing she loses 
the best of her fruit, and if a fruit press be used the jelly should be 
perfectly clear. 

Apple Jelly 

Select firm, well-flavored, slightly-tart apples. Cut in quarters 
and remove any blemishes. To every dozen good-sized apples take a 
pint of cold water and a slice of lemon. Put together in the preserve 
kettle and boil twenty minutes. Count the time from when it begins 
to cook. Take from the fire, put through the press and measure the 
juice. To every pint of juice take one pound of sugar. Cook for 
twenty minutes, test, and if if jellies, put in the glasses. Different 
kinds of apples take varying times of cooking. 

Currant Jelly 

To make good jelly, currants must be picked when they are just 
ripe and just right. Wash the currants in clear cold water, removing 
leaves, twigs, etc., but do not stem. To ten pounds of currants take 
one pint of water, and put over the fire in a preserve kettle. Stir until 
they are heated through, breaking the skins and partially mashing 
them. Take from the fire, put through the press without stemming, 
and strain the expressed juice through a jelly bag. For every pint of 
juice take a pound of the best granulated sugar ; add to the cold juice 
and put over the fire. Stir only until the sugar dissolves, for if stirred 
after it begins to boil it toughens the jelly. Boil twenty minutes, 
skimming carefully when necessary. Stand the tumblers on cloths 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 65 

wet in cold water, fill to the brim with the hot jelly, and let them 
stand from thirty-six to forty-eight hours before covering. 

Quince Jetty 

Wipe the fruit and remove the stems. Cut out any unsound parts 
ana cut the fruit in pieces. It is not necessary to core or peel when 
the fruit press is used, as this expels the coarse portion at the same 
time it extracts the juice. Both the seeds and skin contain a large 
amount of gelatinous matter which aids in making the jelly. Strain 
the juice, measure, and to every pint take a pound of the best granu- 
lated sugar. Boil the juice twenty minutes, skimming when necessary^ 
Add the sugar, stir until it is dissolved, and boil until the juice jellies. 

Cral) Appte Jetty 

Follow the recipe for Quince Jelly. 

Preserved Cherries ■ 

The best flavored cherry for preserving is the Morello. To every 
pound of cherries allow one pound of granulated sugar. Stone the 
cherries, cover with the sugar, and let stand in a cool place over night. 
In the morning put in the preserving kettle over the fire, and cook 
slowly without stirring until the fruit is soft and the syrup clear. 
Skim carefully and put in jars. 

Preserved Pineappte 

Pare the pineapples and put them through the chopper. Take 
three-fourths of a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit. Mix well 
and let stand in a cool place over night. In the morning cook slowly 
until the fruit is tender and the syrup clear. Skim carefully and put 
in the jars. 

Peach Butter 

To every pound of peaches, weighed after peeling and stoning, 
allow one-half pound of sugar. Pare and stone the peaches, which 
should be very ripe and mellow ; cut in pieces and put through the 
press. Put over the fire in a porcelain kettle ; let the pulp heat slowly 
and cook, stirring occasionally, until it is of the consistency of marma- 
lade. Add the sugar, stir until it is dissolved, and cook rapidly for 
fifteen minutes. Place the kettle on the back part of the stove, where 



€6 THE ENTE RPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

the butter will not become cooled until it is quite solid. Pack in jars 
or tumblers while hot. 

Apple Batter 

Pare and core the apples, cut in pieces and put through the press. 
To every pint of apple pulp take one quart of new, sweet cider. Cider 
not more than two days old will make the best apple butter, used with 
tart apples. Boil the cider down one-half; then measure, using in the 
proportion given above. Add the apple pulp and cook very slowly, 
stirring often. When it begins to thicken, sweeten to taste with 
brown sugar. Stir until the sugar is entirely dissolved ; cook until the 
butter is the desired consistency — that of soft jam ; pack in jars or 
tumblers while hot, and keep in a cool place. 

If preferred spiced, allow the following quantities : To every five 
quarts of apple pulp, one teaspoonful each of ground cloves, allspice 
and cinnamon. 

Grape Catsup 

5 pounds of ripe grapes 2 cupfuls of vinegar 

2% pounds of brown sugar 2 teaspoonfuls of salt 

I tablespoonful of pepper 2 blades of mace 

I tablespoonful each of whole cloves, cinnamon and allspice. 

Put the grapes through the press, add the sugar, vinegar, salt and 
■spices. Boil until thick as ordinary catsup, remove the whole spices, 
and bottle while hot. 

Mushroom Catsup 

To each pint of mushroom liquor, take 

M ounce of pepper corns K ounce of allspice 

% ounce of green ginger root K ounce of cloves 

I blade of mace. 

The fresh mushrooms should be used. Look them over carefully 
and put in an earthern jar with alternate layers of salt. Let stand for 
twenty-four hours in a comparatively warm place. Put the mush- 
rooms through the fruit press. Cut the ginger root in small pieces. 
Measure the mushroom liquor and add the pepper corns. Simmer 
forty minutes ; add the spices and boil for fifteen minutes. Take 
from the fire and cool. When cool, strain through a cloth, bottle and 
seal. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 67 



Indian Chutney 

1 quarts of tart apples 2 quarts green tomatoes 

1 pound of raisins i small onion 

3 cupfuls of brown sugar 3 cupfuls of vinegar 

2 cupfuls of lemon juice ^ cupful of salt 

I teaspoonful of Cayenne pepper i ounce of ginger 
Pare and core the apples and put through the food chopper. 
Chop the tomatoes and onion in the same manner. Stone the raisins. 
Mix the apples, tomatoes, raisins and onion with the other ingredients, 
and put away in an earthern jar over night. In the morning set the 
jar in a kettle of cold water. Let the water slowly heat. Boil six 
hours, stirring now and then. Put in preserve jars and seal. 

Chopped Pickles 

^ peck of green tomatoes ^ peck of small onions 

1 cupful of salt 3 quarts of vinegar 

2 pounds of sugar Y^ pound of white mustard 

2 tablespoonfuls each of allspice, cloves, cinnamon, ginger and celery 

seed 
^ teaspoonful of red pepper. 
Slice and chop the onions and tomatoes, cover with the salt and 
let them stand over night. In the morning drain thoroughly, put in a 
sauce-pan, cover with one quart of the vinegar and boil fifteen minutes 
Drain and put the sugar, mustard, pepper and spices in the remaining 
two quarts of vinegar over the fire. As soon as the vinegar boils, add 
the chopped tomatoes and onions, and boil ten minutes. Take from 
the fire and put in glass jars while hot. The quantities given above 
will make six quarts. 

Chili Sauce 

8 quarts of ripe tomatoes i Y^ quarts of vinegar 

I pound of brown sugar i quart of small onions 

I cupful of salt K cupful of horse radish 

I ounce of cloves i ounce of celery seed 

I ounce of cinnamon i ounce of allspice 

I teaspoonful of ground mustard i teaspoonful of black pepper 
I red pepper. 
The tomatoes should be measured after being peeled and chopped. 
Put them in a saucepan over the fire and simmer one hour. Chop the 
onions, grate the horse radish and grind the spices. Mix all the 
ingredients given with the tomatoes, simmer for one hour and seal 
while hot in large-necked bottles. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



Enterprise Spice Mills 





No* 00, $^25 


No. 0, $^50 


Weight ... 6 lbs. 


Weight ... 6 lbs. 


Height . . 9 inches 


Height . II K inches 



No. oo is a Side Mill, and is intended to be screwed to the wall, 
dresser or any other convenient place in the kitchen. 
No. o can be clamped to a table or bench. 

The saving housekeeper will use a Spice Mill for many reasons. 
W^hole spices are not often found adulterated ; when ground spices are 
purchased, one takes her chances. Ground spices lose their strength, 
just as coffee does. Nos. o and oo are the proper sizes to select for 
the home, and the fine or coarse grinding may be regulated as in the 
Coffee Mill — by means of the thumb-screw. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



Suggestions for Breakfast and Luncheon 

Omelets 
Fried Eggs 
Baked Eggs 
Boiled Eggs 
Shirred Eggs 
Stuffed Eggs 
Creamed Eggs 
Poached Eggs 
Deviled Eggs 
Scrambled Eggs 
Beauregard Eggs 
Eggs a la Bechamel 



Bouillon 
Turkey Soup 
Oyster Broth 
Puree of Clams 
Puree of Vegetables 
Black Bean Soup 
Mock Bisque Soup 
Cream Soups 



Egg Salad 
Fish Salad 
Potato Salad 
Celery Salad 
Fruit Salad 
Chicken Salad 
Lobster Salad 
Tomato Salad 
Watertress Salad 
Vegetable Salad 



Turbot 
Fish Hash 
Fish Cutlets 
Curried Fish 
Codfish Balls 
Finnan Haddie 
Broiled Mackerel 
Broiled Sardines 
Clam Fritters 
Fried Oysters 
Broiled Oysters 
Creamed Oj'sters 
Deviled Crabs 
Broiled Lobster 
Farcied Lobster 
Lobster a la Newberg 



Fried Mush 
Fried Hominy 
Baked Beans 
Corn Oysters 
Baked Potatoes 
Creamed Potatoes 
Fried Tomatoes 
Stuffed Tomatoes 
Broiled Tomatoes 
Rice Croquettes 
Hominy Croquettes 
Macaroni Croquettes 
Cheese Ramakins 
Cheese Fondu 
Broiled Mushrooms 



70 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



Beef Hash 
Beef Croquettes 
Baked Hash 
Hash on Toast 
Corned Beef Hash 
Corned Beef Croquettes 
Ham Puffs 
Ham Toast 
Broiled Ham 



Boudins 

Hamburg Steaks 
Cannelon of Beef 
Broiled Steak 
Broiled Chops 
Broiled Chicken 
Chicken a la Terrapin 
Veal Souffle 
Veal Loaf 



Liver and Bacon 



Lemon Pie 
Cream Pie 
Cherry Pie 
Mince Pie 
Fig Pudding 
Chocolate Pudding 
Cottage Pudding 
Snow Pudding 
Orange Pudding 
Baked Apples 
Stewed Pears 
Baked Bananas 



Baked Custards 
Caramel Custards 
Italian Creams 
Bavarian Creams 
Russian Jelly 
Coffee Jelly 
Sherbets 
Ices 

Ice Creams 
Cream Cake Pie 
Washington Pie 
Fruits 



Sandwiches 

Fruit Beverages 

Relishes 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



71 



BREAKFAST l\mNUS 



Fruit 

Baked Hash 

Corn Bread Coffee 



Quaker Oats 

Ham Omelet Creamed Potatoes 

Muffins Coffee 



Fruit 

Cracked Wheat 

Minced Hash on Toast Hashed Brown Potatoes 

Popovers Coffee 



Fruit 

Frizzled Beef Baked Potatoes 

Rice Muffins Coffee 



Fruit 

Ham Patties Potato Cakes 

Rolls Coffee 



Fruit 

Hominy 

Broiled Tomatoes 

Whole Wheat Muffins Coffee 



Grape Fruit 

Whefttena 

Broiled Chops French Fried Potatoes 

Rolls Coffee 



Melons 

Poached Eggs 

Waffles Coffee 



Hominy 

Hamburg Steaks Stewed Potatoes 

Griddle Cakes Coffee 



Fruit 

Cracked Wheat 

Meat Sausages Potatoes Hashed 

"in Cream 

Popovers Coffee 



Fruit 

Codfish Balls Bearnaise Sauce 

Graham Gems Coffee 



72 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

LUNCHEON MENUS 

Scalloped Fish Cold Slaw 

Brown Bread and Butter 

Pineapple Pie 

Turkey Soup 

Veal Loaf Lettuce Salad 

Bavarian Cream 

Chicken Croquettes, Bechamel Sauce 

Macedoine Salad 

Bread and Butter 

Cherry Pie 

Stuffed Eggs, Cream Sauce 

Tomato Salad 

Fruit Jelly 

Corn Fritters 

Sandwiches 

Citron Preserves Cake 

Bouillon 

Deviled Clams Lettuce Sandwiches 

Chicken a la Terrapin 

Peach Sherbet 



Curry of Veal 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

Fruit Wafers 

Tea 

Puree of Clams 

Ham Toast 

Rice Pudding 



I 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPE R 73 

SUPPER MENUS 

Stuffed Eggs Cream Potatoes 

Finger Rolls 
Strawberries Sponge Drop Cakes 

Shrimp Salad Saratoga Potatoes 

Brown Bread and Butter Sandwiches Coffee 

Lemon Jelly Wafers 

Chicken a la Terrapin Julienne Potatoes 

Tea Biscuit Raspberry Shrub 

Coffee Bavarian Cream 

Cake 

Steamed Clams, Butter Sauce 

Veal Loaf Spiced Currants 

Cake Iced Tea 

Orange Sherbet 

Strawberry Shortcake 
Cookies Iced Cocoa 

Corn Fritters 

Potato Salad Rolls 

Coffee 

Panned Oysters 

Boston Baked Beans Brown Bread 

Citron Preserves Cake 

Broiled Tomatoes Potato Crociuettes 

Peach Shortcake 

Chocolate 

Baked Hash, Chili Sauce 
Waffles 
Coffee 

Lobster Cutlets, Cream Sauce 

Potato Puff Staffed Olives 

Rhode Island Johnny Cake 

Chocolate 

• Boudins, Mushroom Sauce 

Brown Bread and Butter Coffee 
Preserves Cake 



74 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



The Enterprise 

Meat Juice Extractor 

«»-TINNED =Sja 



No. 2t, $2.50 

Directions sent with each machine 



There is no one thing which, in cases of protracted illness or in 
imperfect nutrition, has to be served more often than beef juice. Beef 
juice is not beef tea, for the latter is weakened by the admixture of 
water, while the former is the pure and simple juice of the beef — 
nourishment in one of its most concentrated forms. In many homes, 
when sickness comes, much material and time are wasted by the 
primitive methods of extracting the beef juice needed. In such cases 
the possession of a Meat Juice Extractor is an economy, even could it 
be used for the meat alone. It can be used, however, in extracting 
fruit juices in small quantities, sufficient for invalid and convalescent 
dishes. 



THE ENTEPPJRISINO HOUSEKEEPER 75 



^eef Juice 

Take a thick {1% inches) cut of steak trom the round and free it 
from all fat and membrane. Broil it over hot coals from six to eight 
minutes — long enough to heat it through and start the juices. Cut it 
in strips and pass it through the meat juice extractor. Season the 
extracted juice with salt and serve at once. If required re-warmed at 
any time, heat in the farina boiler, allowing the water in the outer 
kettle to simmer only, as the beef juice is spoiled for the invalid if the 
albumen be coagulated. 

The dryness of the pulp is regulated by the thumb-screw (seen at 
the left end or outlet of the cylinder in the cut). The yield of juice 
should be about six ounces from one pound of round steak. 

When the juice has been extracted, take the machine apart, wash 
with a brush in clear, hot water, wipe and thoioughly dry over the 
range. Too much care cannot be exercised in the preparation of 
infants' and invalids' food, and this must begin and end with the care 
of the utensils employed in their preparation. 

C/am "Broth 

To one pint of clams add one-half of a cup of cold water, and put 
in the farina boiler. Have the water in the outside kettle cold, and 
let it slowly heat. Cook for thirty minutes after the water in the 
outside kettle is boiling. Strain the liquid from the clams, put them 
through the meat juice extractor, and add extracted liquor to strained 
liquid. Heat when ready to serve, unless desired cold, and dilute 
with water if necessary. The clams are often so salt that water is 
needed. 

Oyster Tea 

Chop the oysters. Add to each cup of oysters one-fourth of a cup 
of water. Put in the farina boiler and slowly heat. When thoroughly 
heated put through the meat juice extractor. Heat and season tea 
when wanted for use. This will rarely need diluting. 

Fruit Soda 

I pint of currants i % cupfuls of sugar. 

Cover the currants with the sugar and let stand several hours, 
then heat. When the sugar is dissolved and the currants thoroughly 



76 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

heated, put through the fruit press, or if there is but a small quantity, 
through the meat juice extractor. Heat the juice — not to boiling 
point, but just below — and cook without allowing the heat to increase 
or decrease for one hour. Bottle while hot. When ready to use take 
one-half of a glass of syrup to one-half of a glass of soda, and serve at 
once. Other fruits may be used as desired, proportioning the sugar 
to the sweetness or acidity of the fruit. 

Grape Juice 

I quart of grapes M cup of water 

Put the grapes in the farina boiler with the water, which should 
be cold. Heat slowly and cook at a low temperature until the grapes 
are soft. Put the grapes through the fruit press. Add to two cupfuls 
of juice one-fourth of a cup of sugar and heat to just below boiling 
point. Do not let it boil, but keep it at a temperature of at least 200° 
Fahr. for one hour. Bottle and seal. When ready to use take one 
cup of syrup to a cup of cold water. Drinks should be chilled but 
not iced for an invalid. 

Apple Water 

Put one good-sized, tart apple through the fruit press or meat 
juice extractor. Add one cup of boiling water and let it stand where 
it will keep at a little less than boiling heat for one hour. Sweeten to 
taste and serve cold. 



I 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



THE CARE OF UTENSILS 

Nothing more quickly defines the cook than the care taken of his 
or her utensils, for a good workman loves and cares for his tools. 
There are keepers of stables who abuse their horses, and there are 
people who even abuse their own children, as well as cooks who 
abuse the tools provided for them that their labors may be more easily 
performed. 

This, however, is a poor argument against a well outfitted kitchen, 
for the inappreciative cook is usually the unskilled one, and the one 
who leaves a meat chopper uncleaned will generally do the same with 
a tin pan. 

Such utensils as turn with cranks and have oil in their gearings 
should not be /<f// in water, as the oil is thus washed out and the 
utensil quickly spoiled. Clean well with clear, hot water and a brush 
immediately after using and dry thoroughly before putting away. 

Tins should be well dried before putting them away or they will 
rust. 

Do not put pans and kettles partly filled with water on the stove 
to soak, as it only makes them more difficult to clean. Fill them with 
cold water and soak away from the heat. 

Never place kitchen knives and forks in water. Wash them thor- 
oughly with the dish cloth in hot suds, then polish and rub them dry. 

Sieves should not be washed with soap, but cleaned with a brush 
and clear water, using soda if necessary. 

The outside of all pans, saucepans, in fact all utensils, should be 
cleaned with as much care as the inside. Keep things clean — do not 
get them so once a week. 

Use clean, hot, soapy water, changing as soon as it becomes 
greasy ; wash and rinse the dish towels after each using ; use strong 
linen cloths for dish washing, and keep the drain pipe clean, flushing 
it often with hot suds and soda water. 

Certain instructions concerning the various machines mentioned 
in the book will be found under the different headings and may prove 
of assistance to the housekeeper or cook who has not had opportunity 
to learn facts concerning their care. 



7S THE ENTERPRlSmC HOUSEKEEPER 

In any and all of the machines the various parts are interchange- 
able and may be replaced at small cost, ?'. e., if the crank of the meat 
chopper, the thumb or feed screw, or the knife is lost or injured, the 
machine is not useless, nor does an entire new one have to be pur- 
chased. Each machine has a number, and when a certain part is lost 
or broken write to the Enterprise Manufacturing Company of Penn- 
sylvania, Third and Dauphin Streets, Philadelphia, and state the num- 
ber of the machine and the part desired. 



SUGGESTIONS 

Cracker or bread crumbs used in cohering the tops of scallops, 
etc., should be well greased in melted butter; this making a better 
covering than the dry crumbs dotted with butter and uses less of the 
latter ingredient. 

Egg used for covering croquettes may be the whole egg or the 
whites only — never the yolk alone. Beat the egg until broken, not 
until light ; add one tablespoonful of water for each w^hite or two 
tablespoonfuls for a whole egg. Mix well and use. 

Melted butter used for basting is used in the proportion of one 
tablespoonful of butter, melted, to one cupful of hot water. Keep 
hot while using. 

Bread crumbs should always be used for covering articles for 
frying, as cracker crumbs absorb the grease. 

All pieces of stale bread may be dried and put through the meat 
chopper. This makes them much finer and more even than rolling 
and takes not one-fourth as much time. 

All croquettes, cecils and meat balls, which are covered with 
bread crumbs, may be made the day before and fried for breakfast. 
The egg makes an air as well as grease proof covering. 

Chop suet in a cool place, sprinkling with flour to prevent its 
sticking together. 

Add a few drops of rose water to almonds to prevent their oiling 
when chopped. 

Raisins should be soaked in cold water before stoning. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



79 



Enterprise Ne^ Slaw Cutter 



Directions for thin 
or thick slicing 

accompany 
each machine 



>eE^ TINNED -=^§1 




For slicing 
Potatoes, Onions, 

Cabbage, 

Cucumbers,Citron, 

etc. 

No, 94, $3,00 



Its mode of operation is very simple. The article to be 
sliced being placed on the platform and fed or pushed against 
the Revolving Cylinder, which contains three knives. 



Enterprise Grater 



4^TINNED'=®a 




The illustration shown rep- 
resents our new Grater, which 
is especially adapted for gradng 
Horse Radish, Cocoanut, etc., 
and can be utilized for many 
purposes. Its mode of operation 
is very simple. The article to 
be grated being placed on the 
platform and fed or pushed 
against the Revolving Cylinder. 

No* 93, $3*00 



PAGE 

Apple Butter 66 

Water ....... 76 

Bavarian Cream, Fruit . . 5o 

Beef 25 

Juice . , 75 

Minced, on Toast . 25 

Spanish 25 

Beverages o . . 61 

Boudins .30 

Breakfast, Suggestions for 69 

Butter, Apple 66 

Peach 65 

Canapes of Ham .... 34 
Cannelon of Beef . = . . 25 
Care of Utensils ..... 77 
Catsup. Mushroom ... 66 

Grape . 66 

Cecils, Beef » 26 

Cherry Pie . 59 

Pudding ..... 52 

Stoner 50 

Chicken , . . „ .SI 

Croquettes . . . . f51 

Creamed 32 

Deviled 31 

Salad 47 

i la Terrapin ... 32 

Timbales 32 

Chili Sauce . 67 

Choppers, Meat and Food 17 
Chopped Pickles .... 67 

Chutney, Indian 67 

Clam Bnth 75 

Clams, Puree of 20 

Coffee 14. 15 

Coffee and Spice Mills 13, 68 

Cold Slaw 47 

Cooking, Time Tables for 40 

Cocoanut Pie 58 

Codfish Balls 23 

Cordial. Blackberry ... 62 

Cream, Fruit Bavarian . . 53 

Croquettes, Chicken ... 31 

Corned Beef .... 27 

Lamb 28 

Cutlets, Fish 22 

Currant Ice 56 

Jelly 64 

Curried Rabbit 33 

Curry of Lamb , .... 28 

Mutton 29 

Crabapple Jelly 65 

Desserts . . ., «... 51 

Dressing Boiled 46 

French 46 

Mayonnaise . . . . 45 
Duck, Hashed Wild ... 33 

Eg-s 15, 16 

Farina, Molded 52 

Fig Pudding 52 

Fish Cutlets 22 

Hash 23 



INDEX 

PAGE 

Fish Sandwiches 49 

Sauces 36 

Turbot 22 

Frozen Pudding 54 

Fruit, Press , 60 

Punch „ .... 55, 61 

Soda 75 

Tapioca 52 

Game, Salmi of 38 

Grape Juice 76 

Grouse Kromesquies <> . . SB 
Hamburg Steaks .... 25 

Ham Canapes M 

Molded 34 

Patties 35 

Relish 34 

Toast 34 

Halibut a la Delmonico . 23 

Hash, Baked 27 

Corned Beef. ... 26 

New York 26 

Ice, Currant 56 

Shredder 63 

Ice Cream, Fruit 56 

Jelly, Apple 64 

Currant 64 

Crabapple 64 

Lemon 54 

Plum Pudding ... 53 

Quince 64 

Russian .54 

Lamb. Pilaff of 28 

Curry of « 28 

Lemonade 61 

Lobster Salad 47 

Loaf. Veal 30 

Luncheon 10 

Macedonia, Frozen ... 55 
Mayonnaise Dressing . . 45 

Meats 24 

Meat Cakes 27 

Juice Extractor . . 74 

Sausages 27 

Sauces 36 

Measuring, Table for ... 39 
Meat and Food Choppers . 17 
Menus, Breakfast .... 71 

Luncheon 72 

Supper 73 

Mince Meat 69 

Molded Farina 52 

Mutton. Curry of .... 29 

Ragout 2!t 

Oysters. Bisque of .... 20 

Oyster Tea 75 

Pastry 58 

Pickles, Chopped .... 67 

Pie 58, 59 

Pineapple, Preserved . . 65 
Potatoes, Baked .... 43 

Creamed 43 

Hashed Browned . . 43 



PAGE ■ 

Potato Cakes , . » < o . 44 
Border » o , . . 44 
Puffs ....... 44 

Press, Fruit ....... 60 

Pudding, Plum 51 

Pudding, Cherry ... . , 52 

Frozen 54 

Fig 52 

Plum Pudding Jelly ... 53 

Puree of Clams 20 

Punch, Fruit 55, 61 

Ragout of Mutton .... 29 
Raspberry Shrub .... f 2 

Relishes 64 

Rice Border c 44 

Sad Irons 5,6 

Salad, Chicken ..... 47 

Macedoine 46 

Lobster 47 

Russian ...... 46 

Sandwiches 48 

Egg 48 

Cheese ...... 49 

Deviled Ham ... 49 

Fish 49 

Meat . . .... 48 

Sweet and Nut . . 49 
Vegetable .... 49 

Sauce, Bechamel .... 36 

Brown 37 

Brown Mushroom . 37 

Bearnaise 38 

Caper ... . . , . 38 

Curry 37 

Currant Jelly ... 37 
Drawn Butter ... 38 

Egg 36 

HoUandaise . . . , ?,8 
Mushroom .... 36 
Piquante ..... 37 

Supreme 36 

Shrimp 38 

Tartare 38 

White 36 

Sausages 35 

Sausage Meat 27 

Scrapple .85 

Sherbet, Pineapple ... 56 

Seeder, Raisin 57 

Shredder, Ice 63 

Slaw Ciitter 79 

Soup, Bisque of Oyster . . 20 
Lima Bean .... 21 
Puree of Clam ... 20 

Turkey 21 

Supper 10 

Syrup. Cherry 61 

Time Tables . . . 40,41,42 

Tapioca. Fruit 52 

Veal, Blarquette of ... 30 

Souffle 29 

Wine, Elderblossom . . .62 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 

■i. 

014 489 299 9 ^ 



V 



