


' '■■; 



mm 




■_ 

w 

MMullmWh 

■ 



' mem 



11 



MP 
m 



HI 



M. 



m 



m 



I 



rPj 



mm* 



ivufitf uiv I'll 



New Orleans 600K book 



BY THE- 



Womrnauis Parsonage 



-AND 



Home Mission Society, 



OF- 



Parker J)(\emorial 

M. E. CHURCH SOUTH. 

1898, 



<^ OFFICERS ^> 

President MBS. J. W. WILKINSON. 

Vice-President MRS. L. BIGGS. 

Secretary MBS. J. W. B1LLINGTON. 

Treasurer MISS C. MITCHELL. 



r 



PURE. RELIABLE. PERFECT. 

...DIXIE... 

Baking Powder, 

Full Cream of Tartar Powder. 



Guaranteed not to contain Ammonia, Alum, Phosphate, 
Lime or any deleterious substances. Endorsed by tbe 
New Orleans Cooking School. 

Highest Award for General Excellence — Atlanta Expo- 
sition, December 1895. 



Dixie Flavoring Extracts, 

LEMON and 
VANILLA. 

They stand without a peer for Purity, Strength, Delicacy of 
Flavor. Address the Sole Manufacturers, 

Gulf Manufacturing Company, 

F. W. YOUNG, Proprietor, New Orleans, La. 




f) 



^ 



PREFACE. 



"Man may live without books. 

What is knowledge but grieving? 
He may live without hope. 

What is hope but deceiving'? 
He may live without love, 

What is passion but pining? 
But where is the man that can live without dining?" 

The promoters of this modest enterprise hesitate to 
claim for it that it fills a long- felt want; there are other 
cook books containing- vastly more information in which 
the resources and products of the Frigid Zone and the 
Tropics are drawn on for the purpose of whetting- the 
human appetite. 

The sphere of this little book is more limited, but we 
feel that it will appeal with great force to its limited circle, 
for it is especially adapted to their wants — the ingredients 
called for in the recipes given are always to be had in sea- 
son in our own markets, and many of the appetizing dishes 
for which New Orleans and Louisiana are noted, are here- 
in described. 

It has not been the aim in compiling- these recipes, to 
tell all we know, or all that our friends know, but out of 
the g-enerous responses to our requests for "two or three 
of your very best," we have selected these as the "best of 
the best." Very few, if any, are original — many have 
been tried and tested by the mothers and grandmothers of 
the donors, while others are more modern — thoroughly 
"up-to-date;" but each recipe carries the enthusiastic re- 
commendation of her whose name is subscribed thereto, 
and one has but to read over these names to be convinced 
that we are not too optimistic in expressing the belief that 
this collection will please all who make use of it. 



ESTABLISHED I836 



J. C.niLLER 

Tent and AwningCo. Lt'd 

(Successors to Gassidy & Miller ;ind late J. C. Miller) 

441 Camp St., near Poydras, New Orleans. 

Agents for Cotton Duck all Widths. 

Fancy and Plain Awning Stripes, Colored Duck, 
Flag Bunting, Hammocks. 

Manufacturers of Awnings, Tents, Tarpaulii-s, Flags, Canvas 

Hammocks. Galleries and Lawns Enclosed. Canopies 

Floors Covered, Etc., for Weddings and Parties. 



^& 






Torpid Liver, Malaria, 
Chills and Fever, 
Indigestion, Dyspepsia, 
Gastritis, Billiousness, 



General Debility, 
Jaundice, Dysentery, 
Diarrhoea and 
Constipation. 



An absolute Cure for Bright's Disease, Diabetes 
and every form of Kidney Trouble. 

Used by most prominent Physicians in the South. 

Springs located 3 miles west of Durant, Miss. No Mosquitos. 
Good Table and Best Hotel Accommodations. 

<^_40 5 BARONNE STREET. 



Bread. 



.-^ - ^ -^ -^ - ^ -^ -^ -^ -^ -^ - ^ -^ -^ . y 



9 



i^;^^^ 



"Here is bread, which strengthens men's hearts, 
and therefore is called "The Staff of Life." 



Graham Bread. 

Made with equal parts of Graham and white flour. 
Bake and treat as you would ordinary white bread. The 
adding- of white flour to the Graham prevents the bread 
from drying- up. Miss Cocker. 

Graham Bread. 

3 pints Graham flour, 1 pint white flour, 1 cup yeast, 
y 2 cup molasses, 1* teaspoonful salt mix with lukewarm 
water as stiff as you can, stir with a spoon. Let it rise 
over night and bake in a moderately hot oven. 

Miss Cocker. 
Light Rolls. 

Boil one pint of whey, pour on to a half tablespoonful of 
flour, let stand until cool, then stir into it the yeast, (either 
yeast cake or compressed,) add flour sufficient to make a 
stiff batter, and beat half an hour; allow about four hours 
to rise, then sift the flour, pour into it this batter, add four 
tablespoonsful of lard, one teaspoonful of sugar, one eg-g also 
salt, make out into rolls and when sufficiently raised, bake 
in hot oven. Mrs. W. W. Carre. 



11 



4 * 




IS THE MOST WONDERFUL REMEDY FOR 



Wounds , Burns, Etc. 

EVER OFFERED THE PUBLIC. 

Prevents Inflammation and Suppuration. Cures Colic in Man 

or Beast. Pleasant, Harmless and Reliable. Everybody 

has something good to say about it. 

Beware of Imitations. The Woods Are Full of 'Em. 

Only 50 Cents by Druggists. 

Sherrouse Medicine Co., 



Manufacturers and Proprietors. 



NEW ORLEANS, LA. 



T. J. & Wit BYRNES, 

Grocers $ f ea Dealers, 

3 Big S tores 

_ ^ mmm ^ 

Dryades Street, Head of Market. 
St. Andrew and Annunciation Sts. 
Dryades and Terpsichore Sts. 

>s' Phones 841 & 1192. 



The Celebrated Fox River Creamery Butter 
Received Daily by Express 



Bread. « 

Dropped Corn Bread. 

One pint of fine white corn meal, thoroughly scalded 
with boiling- water; when cool, add two eggs well beaten; 
salt to taste, and thin it with sufficient milk to make it 
drop from spoon (say about half a cup). 

Mrs. W. W. Carre. 

Thomas Bread. 

One tumbler sweet milk; two eggs, well beaten; two 
even tablespoonsful sugar; two even tablespoonsful of melted 
butter; flour until it makes a stiff batter; desertspoonful of 
Dixie Baking Powder. Mrs. Alma S. Wynn. 

BISCUIT. 

One quart of flour, one heaping tablespoonful of lard, 
one teaspoonful of salt, three teaspoonfuls oi Dixie baking 
powder and sweet milk enough to make a soft dough. Sift 
the flour, baking powder and salt together three times. 
(Leave a little of the flour in sifter for the board), sift the 
flour into the tray or bowl, then put the spoonful of lard in 
the centre, and mix with the milk, using a large spoon and 
stirring the dough as little as possible; have the dough as 
soft as can be bandied or rolled out. Roll thin and cut 
with biscuit cutter, bake at once in a very hot oven. 

Mrs. Minnie M. Wilkinson. 

Beaten Biscuit. 

One quart of flour, one tablespoonful of lard, one good 
teaspoonful of salt, and sweet milk sufficient to make a stiff 
dough. Beat long and well, or better still, roll through a 
dough kneader until the dough blisters and pops. 

Mrs. W. H. LaPrade, Shreveport, La. 



WOMANS' - 



# 



Christian Temperance 
Union Restaurant, 

632 Qravier Street, ■ etw Sg£*< ) S5X!SS'. c,mp 



a 






//AK Meals served from 7 a m. to 6 p. m. 

Breakfast 25 Cents. Dinner 85 Cts. 
Lunch 15 Cents. 



b 



Coffee a Specialty, 5 cents a Cup. 

Fruits, Cakes and Pies 






L. S. WIDNEY DAVID ZABLE 

WIDNEY &ZABLE, 

4716=4718 flagazine Street, Above Valence. 

COAL, COAK and VADH 
WOOD_^> 1 f\t\U 9 

HAY, CORN, OATS and FEED of a11 Kin ^ 

Families Supplied with the Celebrated Snow- 
Hill Coal at market prices. 

MAIN OFFICE, ROOM 314 HENNEN BUILDING, 
TELEPHONES, 82. 331. 1536. 
Pennsylvania Coal Co., L. S. WIDNEY, Manager. 



Bread. 9 

Graham Bread. 

One cake compressed yeast; three quarts of Graham 
flour; one kitchen spoonful of lard; one large cup of brown 
sugar; one tablespoon of salt; mix well the lard, sugar and 
salt into the flour before putting in your yeast which 
should be well dissolved in colci water; if set by eight in 
the morning, will be ready to make into loaves by three in 
the afternoon. Mrs. H. J. Mullen. 

Corn Meal Bread. 

One pint of corn meal; one teaspoon of salt; two large 
tablespoons of hot rice; one or two eggs, beat together; 
pour on just enough boiling water to make a thick mush; 
form it into a round cake in a pie-plate, being careful to 
not let it get cold; then bake until there is a good crust 
bottom and top; don't use fine meal. 

Corn Meal Cakes. 

One pound of sugar; half pound butter; one nutmeg; 
one pound of meal; four eggs; one cupful of flour; after 
sifting the meal take out a cupful of meal and put into the 
cupful of flour; beat up with other ingredients, and drop 
from a spoon on greased pans and cook in quick oven. 

Miss Mary Wilkinson. 







W LIMITED. @ 



Cor. Magazine and Julia, 

Cor. Washington and Prytania 

'Phone 697. 



Finest Carrages for Hire for Balls, 
Parties, Weddings, etc. 






Breakfast and Tea Cakes. 11 



I Breakfast and Tea Cakes. f 

€€€€€€€€€«€€€€€ €€€€€ €€€ € € € €€€ € * 



JOHNNY CAKES. 

Two cups of Indian meal in your mixing- dish, add one 
pint of sour milk or butter-milk, a spoonful of cream or 
butter; beat well tog-ether and add a cup full ol flour, with 
a teaspoon of soda sifted throug-h it. Bake in a quick oven 
and serve hot for breakfast. Miss Mary Werlein. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

Two cups buckwheat flour, one cup wheat flour, four 
teaspoons Dixie baking- powder, one teaspoon salt, one 
tablespoon sug-ar, mix altog-ether and add sufficient sweet 
milk or water to make a soft batter. Bake on griddle at 
once. Mrs. S. F. G. 

Graham Gems. 

Three pints of Graham flour, one small cup of brown 
sugar, 1 teaspoon of salt, two scant teaspoons of Dixie bak- 
ing- powder, one tablespoon of lard, make dough much 
softer than for ordinary biscuits, bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. H. J. Mullen. 

Rice Cakes. 

One cup cold boiled rice, one pint of flour, 1 teaspoon 
of salt, two eg-gs well beaten, milk to make a thick batter. 
Fry — Mrs. M. Walker. 



No Charge for Examining Teeth. 



Lowest Charge for First-Class Work 



Dr. R. L. Schroeder, 

Dentist, 



1327 BARONNE STREET, 



Near Thalia. 



Gromn and Bridge Work a Specialty. 



Up=to-Date Painless Methods 




Classical and 
Commercial Institute 



H. S. CHENET, Principal. 



H I526 CarOttdelet St., New Orleans. 




Spacious, Comfortable Buildings and Grounds. 



H Next Annual Session 
Begins. 



Sept. 2, 




Breakfast and Tea Cohen . 13 

MUFFINS. 

Two cups of flour, two heaping- teaspoonsful Dixie bak- 
ing- powder, three heaping- teaspoonsful of sug-ar, one table- 
spoonful butter. Work the butter well into the mixture 
with a spoon, add J of a cup of cold water, and one eg-g- 
well beaten. Fill the moulds and bake in hot oven. 

Mrs. W. H. Belt. 

Flannel Oakes. 

Sift tog-ether 1£ pints of flour, one tablespoonful brown 
sugar, a little salt, add two beaten eg-g-s, one pint of miik, 
heat into a smooth thin batter. Bake on hot griddle to a 
rich brown. Miss M. Keen. 

French Rolls. 

One quart flour, two ounces butter, a little salt well 

rubbed tog-ether, one well beaten eg-g - , \ compressed yeast 

cake dissolved in luke warm milk, add as much sweet milk 

as required to make a stiff batter, beat well and set to rise. 

When lig-ht, roll out thin, cut into g-ems, brush edg-es with 

butter, fold them over, place a little distance apart in the 

pan. Let stand a while to rise ag-ain and bake. 

Mrs. Heck. 

Light Flour Puffs for Breakfast. 

Take a tumbler of sifted flour, a tumbler of milk and 
two eg-g-s. Put a spoonful of Dixie yeast powder in the 
flour before sifting-, beat eg-g-s (up) separately. Mix to- 
g-ether and add a teaspoonful of melted butter or lard just 
before baking- in little fancy pans. Put salt in the flour 
with the yeast powder and then bake as quickly as you 
can. Mrs. J. T. Sawyer. 



A. K. MILLER & CO., 

Steamship A rrckn+c 
and Ship f*g &** L*>> 

303 Carondelet Street, New Orleans, La. 

: AGENTS : 



Cuban Steamship Co., London and New Orleans, Glynn Line, 
La Flecha Line, Serra Line, Joseph Hoult Line for Liver- 
pool, Havre and Bremen. British and Foreign 
Marine Insurance Co., Limited. 

: GENERAL PASSENGER AGENTS : 



American Line, Red Star Line, Cunard Line, White Star Line, 

Hamburg- American Line, North- German Lloyd Line, 

Allen State Line, Netherland-American Line. 



J.C.florris&Co 



LIMITED 



Nos. 324-330 Tchoupitoulas Street. 



Wholesale Dealers in — Axle Grease, Baskets, Bath Tubs, 
Baseballs, Cages, Chewing' Gum, Croquet, Dusters, 
Enameled Steelware, Freezers, Fishing- Tackle, Gal- 
vanized Cleats, Pulleys, Rowlocks, Harmonicas, Ham- 
mocks, Ice Chests, Julip Straws, Knives and Forks, 
Lanterns, Lemon Squeezers, Marbles, Night Tapers, 
Oars, Oil Tanks, Paper, Pipes, Rope Refrigerators, 
Scales, Shakers, Soaps, Tacks, Tinware , Traps, Twines 
Washing- Machines, Wring-ers, Water Coolers, Whips, 
Etc., Etc. 



Doughnuts, Cookies, Ginger Bread. 15 



I Doughnuts, Gookies, Ginger Bread j 



DOUGHNUTS, 



One cup sour milk, \y 2 cups sug-ar, one egg, one table- 
spoon melted lard, >£ teaspoon baking soda, flavor to taste, 
flour sufficient to roll out; and fry in hot lard. 

Mrs. Alice M. Zable. 

GINGERBREAD. 

A cupful each of sour cream and nice molasses. A 
level teaspoonful and a half of soda a teaspoonful each of 
salt and g-ing-er, add flour to make a little thicker than 
griddle cakes. Bake in eight in a sheet. 

Miss Mary Werlein. 

Soft Cookies. 

One heaping- cup butter, l 1 /? cups sug-ar, 3 eg-gs beaten 
separately, 3 tablespoons sour milk, 1 small teaspoon of 
soda, and as little flour as will make them stiff enoug-h to 
roll. Sprinkle with sug-ar and grated nutmeg- before 
cutting-, pass over roller, cut and bake a light brown. 

COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, f cup sweet milk, 2 eggs, 
5 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Dixie yeast powder. Roll thin and 
bake quickly. Mrs. S. F. G. 



I 

I 

fe 

P For Strength. Comfort 

p Refinement, Beauty. 

I Turkish Bath 50c, 

Mi and attain flank's fpp 9,Fir» 



I 



I 

I 

I 

p) 
II 



i 



and attendant's fee 25c. 



Skilful Manicuring. 50c. 
|lfj Corns removed, Bunions, Ingrowing Toe-nails. 

If™] etc., corrected, 50c. to $2 per visit. 

=j|. Sulphur and other Medicated Bath-, $1 to $2. 

Saline Baths 50c. or, with general rubbing, $1. 
Massage or Electricity, 50c. to $2. 
Engagements at residence. 50 per cent extra 
Ladies, 9 to 5 p. m,; Sundays till 1 p. m. 
Gentlemen, night and day. 



Ill BOURBON, Near Canal St., 

Mr. and firs. OSBORNE, Proprietors. 



I 
Ipl 



Doughnuts , Cookies, Ginger Bread. 17 

Graham Crackers. 

Two cups Graham flour, 1 cnp white flour, \ cup sugar 
\ cup butter, 1 egg, salt to taste. Roll and bake in a quick 

Miss Cocker. 

Soft Ginger Bread. 

3 cups flour, £ cup milk, £ cup lard, £ cup New Orleans 
molasses, 1 teaspoonful soda, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of gin- 
ger. Beat the yolk of the eggs and the lard together, 
then add the milk, soda, molasses, ginger and flour, then 
beat the whites to a stiff froth and add them carefully. 
Bake in a moderate oven J of an hour. 



Miss Cocker. 



Thin Rich Cookies. 



1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 3 eggs, all beaten together 
to a cream, use just enough flour to mix and roll thin. 

Mrs. S. F. G. 

Good Cookies. 

2 cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 3 cups of flour, L cup 
of sour cream or milk, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon of soda. Mix 
soft, roll thin, sift granulated sugar over them, and gently 

ro11 lt in " Mrs. P. R. Baldwin, Biloxi, Miss. 



Dto A Go BOWMAN, 



Every body says the last place on Earth they want to go to is to 
a dentist's office, Now while this may be true in general, we 
have heard it said and we belive it true, that it is possible to 
derive pleasure from such a source. There is in the Henneu 
Building, (5th floor) an office recently fitted up in splendid 
style and presided over by as gentle and courteous a gentle- 
man as one would care to meet, Dr. A. G. Bowman. Dr. 
Bowman is a skilled Dentist and if you once try him, 
you will be satisfied. — i — « 




e.CHA-RTWELL, 

&ds and S/ecfric Light Fixture*, 
dJlcdern Sanitary Plumbing, 
JHc i l&a fer fie a tit i q . 

Agent for the Improved Welsbach Light 

No. 213 Baronne Street, 
Telephone No. 44. NEW ORLEANS, 



R. A. FOX, Pres. 




E. D. ELLIS, Secy & Treas. 



wiss J|t eam JL> aun( lry C°-> 

1010 GRAVIER STREET, 



^TELEPHONE 218 



To the Ladies: 



After preparing some of the palatable dishes 
from receipts in this pamphlet be sure and send 
your Husbands Shirts, Collars and Cuffs to the 
Swiss Steam Laundry, they will laundry them in 
first class style, put on new neck and wrist-bands 
and all necessary repairs free of charge. 



w. t. pierce, nDiranisT 



5250 MAGAZINE STREET, NEW ORLEANS, LA, 



Soups. 19 

S 1 • »*■ m ^ '^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ -* ■• •*£• * & 1 " i '<* 

I SOUPS. 1 



Cream of Tomato Soup. 

One pint can of tomatoes, one pint of fresh sweet milk, 
half teaspoon of soda, one spoon butter, two tablespoons 
of rolled cracker crumbs. Place over fire the tomatoes and 
stew till soft, add soda and stir till effervescence ceases. 
Strain it so no seeds remain, set over the fire ag-ain and add 
a pint of hot milk, season with salt and pepper and put in 
the cracker crumbs. Serve very hot. 

Green Pea Soup. 

One pint of sweet milk, one spoon of butter, two table- 
spoons of rolled cracker crumbs. Place over the fire the 
peas in a little water and stew till soft, add the hot milk 
and butter with a small spoonful of sugar or condensed 
milk, season with salt and pepper and put in the cracker 

crumbs and serve. , T . ~ T>r . 

Mrs. A. C. King. 

Vermicelli Soup. 

One pound vermicelli boiled half hour, salt and pepper 
to taste, add as much water as needed. Beat the yolk of 
one eg-g- well, and stir in as the soup is poured up. 

Mrs. Lucie Menarp. 



The nearer the Producer and Consumer can be brought together the better for all concerned. 

THE GREAT 
Atlantic\iPacificTeaCo. 

Importers, Coffee Roasters, 
Manufacturers and Retailers. 

HEADQUARTERS, 938 CANAL ST., Cor. University Place. 

1616 DRYADES STREET. 2033 MAGAZINE STREET, 

3104 MAGAZINE STREET, POYDRAS MARKET. 

NEW ORFEANS, LA.-— 

COFFEES at all prices, 10, 124, 15, 20, 25, 30. 
TEAS at all prices, 30, 40, 50, 60, 80. 

) TELEPHONE 701. ( 

"My Joy Dairy and Poultry Farm" 



Poultry of all kinds, 

CihFresh Milk and Cream Cheesekiy 

yf. Always on hand. TK 

Mr A. F. WALL1S. ProprietorMr 



DELAYS ARE DANGEROUS. 

Insure your Dwelling-house or Furniture and 
Wearing apparel through the Pescud Agency. 
Ladies wishing information in regard to cost of 
Insurance can get it by calling in person or by 
addressing a Postal Card or Letter to the Agency. 
Insurance placed at lowest current rates for one, 
three or five years. 

PETER F. PESCUD, No. 818 Gravier Street. 



Soups. .21 

Beef Soup. 

Take a ten cents brisket or soup bone, put it into a pot 
of water and let boil during- breakfast. When it is time to 
start dinner, cut or chop up one turnip, one carrot, one 
onion, a few sprig's of parsley and chillots, and add to 
soup. Just before serving-, thicken it with tablespoon of 
flour mixed with water, season to taste with salt and 

Miss Mary Wilkinson. 



Oyster Soup. 

Put the liquor which drains from 3 dozen oysters into 
a marbleized sauce pan. Let it heat and skim thoroug-hly, 
then add a teaspoon of finely chopped onions and parsley, 
a sprig- of thyme, also a heaping- tablespoon of butter, 
mixed with a teaspoon of flour, salt and pepper to taste, 
add ]/ 2 dozen cloves and spice. Put in oysters last, let 
ting- them boil two minutes. Have warm, a pint of fresh 
milk, which add just before dishing-. 

Mrs. S. S. Keener. 



Mock Turtle Soup. 

1 larg-e spoon of lard, 1 of flour browned together, add 
1 pound of beef chopped small, % can tomatoes, 6 whole 
alspice, salt and pepper to taste, add 3 quarts water and 
simmer until beef is tender. Chop 2 hard boiled eg-g-s in 
the tureen, pour soup on, squeeze in the juice of half a 
lemon, and slice in the other half. Mr§ q p Wqrk 




I 





4866 HagazineSt., 

NEW ORLEANS. 



DEALER IN 

DRUGS, HEDICINES, CHEHICALS, 

Fancy and Toilet Articles, Sponges, Brushes, Perfumery, Etc. 

Physicians' Prescriptions Carefully Compounded, and orders answered 

with care and dispatch. Our Stock of Medicine is complete, and 

warranted genuine and of the best quality. 

JOHN A. WOODVILLE, 
Attorney and Counsellor=at-Law, 

No. I36 CARONDELET STREET, 

Between Canal and Common Street, - NEW ORLEANS, LA. 
o TELEPHONE 1408 o 

If &RTIJEC J. CUI&, 



.Dealer in Fancy and Staple. 



Groceries, 



TUESDAYS 



ARE 



BARGAIN DAYS. 



Nos. 3201 to 3203 Magazine, and Nos. 1100 to 1114 Harmony St. 
Telephone 1435. New Orleans, La. 




n 




Successors to FKANTZ & OPITZ, 



Watches, Clocks, 
Diamonds, 
Jewelry Silver- 
• Ware, Novelties, 
At Reasonable Prices, 



129 Bourbon St 

NEAR CANAL. 



Jewelers. 



Soups. 23 

Apple Soup. 

Peel and core six apples, cut them up and boil them 
well in 8 cups of water, boil till tender, strain throug-h a 
colender; return to pot, boil up ag-ain with a little cinna- 
mon bark, a piece of lemon peeling- and sug-ar to taste, and 
a tiny bit of salt and serve either hot or cold. 

Prune Soup. 

\ pound of prunes, wash them well, add 8 cups of water 
and boil, add a piece of cinnamon, lemon peeling-, when it 
beg-ins to boil, 1 tablespoon sag-o and sug-ar to taste, boil 
altog-ether one hour. Serve either hot or cold. 

Milk Soup. 

Add to 4 cups of milk, 2 cups of water, a small piece of 
cinnamon, a piece of lemon peeling-, a teaspoonf ul of but- 
ter. When boiling- add a little salt and a tablespoonful of 
sag-o, boil until clear. 

Blackberry Soup. 

Take 2 cups of berries, and boil with 8 cups of water 
at least half an hour. Strain and return the juice to the 
fire. When boiling- add a tablespoonful of sag-o, a piece of 
lemon peeling- and cinnamon and sug-ar to taste. 

Mrs. J. Cohen. 



JAMES H. AITKEN ROBERT AITKEN 

Jas. H. Aitken & Co., 

PLUMBERS, 

Steam -«* Gas Fitters, 

Bath Tubs. Lavatories and Water Closets. 
Chandeliers, Brackets and Globes 

510 CAMP STREET 



TELEPHONE ©<35 

NEW ORLEANS, LA. 



GEO. M. I^E^AHY, 

c^c y a p k res B sT D h d Wood Mantels, 

Mahogany ' 

flarbleized Slate Hantels, 

Marble and Tile Wainscoting, Embossed, Enameled and Floor Tiles 
Bronze, Brass, Nickel and Enameled Grates. Slate Hearths, Fire 
Bricks — ^ 

No. 512 CAflP STREET, Telephone 751. New Orleans. 

o TELEPHONE No 509 o 

House Bills and Special Orders Sawed and Delivered Promptly. 



Main Office and Mills, 

Madisonville, La. 



W. T. Jay, 

Lumber. 



Office and Yards — 
2324 Howard Av. Cor. Freret 
H. C. GAUSE, Agent, 
New Orleans. 



ESTABLISHED 1817. 



A. B. GRISWOLD&CO., 




No. 728 CANAL STREET, New Orleans, La. 



Soups. 25 

Simple Tomato Soup. 

Add to 1 pint of tomatoes, 1 pint of water, a bay leaf, 

% teaspoon of celery seed; rub together 2 tablespoons of 

butter and 2 of flour, stir in the first mixture and cook for 

5 minutes, strain, reheat and serve. 

Mrs. F. A. Dicks. 

Oyster Gumbo Fele. 

Take four dozen oysters and strain off the liquor 

through a seive. Then take one tablespoonful of lard, 

one of flour and mince, one small onion very fine. Put the 

lard in pan and when hot add the flour and onion, and fry 

very brown, then fry the oysters for two or three minutes. 

Put your liquor on, and boil and skim, adding- enough 

water to make the quantity of soup required. Add parsley, 

red pepper and salt to taste. Then put in the oysters, and 

when it comes to a boil, mix one heaping teaspoonful of 

Fel6 in a little cold water. Let it cook two minutes and 

send to the table. ,, TT 

Mrs. S. Henderson. 

Chicken Gumbo. 

Fry to a light brown a small sized chicken, then add to 
it a medium sized onion and fry. Add a tablespoon of flour 
and brown all together, then add a pint of boiling water. 
Have ready a quart of tender okra that has been cut up in 
thin cross-wise slices, put in the okra and two large toma- 
toes that have been peeled, and let all cook for one hour or 
more. When nearly done add corn cut from two ears. Salt 
and red pepper to suit the taste. 

TCHOUPITOULAS MISSION. 



26 Soups. 

GUMBO. 

Take a piece of veal, fry brown; also small pieces of 

ham; fry green okra until ropy; mix altogether with a can 

of tomatoes and put into a four quart sauce pan or pot 

with two or three pints of water; cook slowly; adding 

water gradually to get the required consistency. Pick 

shrimp and put in while cooking - . Season with salt and 

(liberally) red pepper. 

Miss R. Caywood. 



"Remember the Location/' 

A first-class Prescription Drug Store. 
Soda Water the very best with Fruit 

Syrups. "■— t" 

..DRUGGIST.. 

Magazine and Louisiana Ave. Telephone Call 950. 



Crab Gumbo. 

1 can of tomatoes, 1 dozen okra, 1 onion cut fine, 1 
tablespoonful of lard. Into the hot lard, sift 2 tablespoons- 
ful of flour, stir until brown. Then put in the tomatoes, 
okra and onion; to this add about 1 quart and a half of 
boiling water; let cook until done. Put 1 dozen crabs in 
boiling water, then remove the top shell, and clean thor- 
oughly, put into the gumbo, and let boil 15 or 20 minutes. 

Mrs. Pierce. 



Oysters and Crabs. 27 



|Oysters and Crabs| 



Stuffed Oysters. 

4 dozen small oysters, 24 soda crackers soaked in the 
liquor of the oysters. Chop oysters fine and season with 
onion, thyme, parsley, etc. Have skillet hot, take one 
larg-e spoon of lard, and put the mixture in skillet. Add 
2 well beaten eg-g-s and 1 larg-e spoon of butter. Cook until 
done. Have ready 1 dozen shells; fill with mixture, sprin- 
kle with cracker dust. Put in oven and brown. 

Mrs. C. V. Unsworth. 

Scollopped Oysters. 

J cup butter, 1 cup cracker crumbs, 1 dozen oysters, 
pepper and salt to taste, mix butter and cracker crumbs 
tog-ether, sprinkle \ of the crumbs in a bowl, then £ of the 
oysters, seasoned, then add rest of crumbs, then the oys- 
ters and bake. Mrs. A. F. G. 

Stuffed Crabs. 

Boil your hard crabs and take out the meat. Put a lit- 
tle lard in a frying- pan to which add soaked bread and 
chopped onions. After cooking- a little take it up and add 
an eg-g-, butter, salt and pepper. Clean the shells and fill 
them with the mixture and put some bread crumbs or 
crackers over the top and brown in a hot oven. 

Mrs. H. Haag. 



J. Thomson. G. Thomson. W. B. Thomson. 

J. THOMSON & BROS., 



.IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN.... 



Carriage and Wagon Makers Material, 

AND MANUFACTURERS OF 

Light Carriages $ Spring Wagons, 

^Telephone No. 203^ 
225 to 233 S. RAMPART STREET, 

Bet. Common and Gravier, NEW ORLEANS, LA. 

Smith's Bakery 

3017 MAGAZINE STREET. 

Assorted Fancy Cakes of the very best 
quality and at reasonable rates. 

Ice Cream of all grades, but our best 
quality we supply to families and par- 
ties at $1.25 per gallon. 

Our Bread is second to none and cheapest 
on the market. 

Wedding Cakes a Specialty. 



Oysters and Grabs 29 

Fabacher Oyster Patties. 

First boil the oysters and set to one side. Cut green 
onions and brown well with butter and # a tablespoonful of 
flour. When well stirred tog-ether, add a pint of oyster 
water and the yolks of 3 egg-s, £ lemon. Season to taste 
with salt and peper. Add oysters and stew all together 
one-half hour. Then put the tricassee into patties. 

SHELLS. 

Roll out a nice puff paste thin; cut out with a g-lass or 

cookey-cutter, and with a wine glass or smaller cutter, cut 

out the centre of two out of three; lay the rings thus made 

on the third and bake at once. If the cutters are dipped 

in hot water, the edg-es of the patties will rise much higher 

and smoother when baking-. 

Mrs. Alma S. Wynn. 



Fried Hard Shell Crabs. 

Take six crabs and scald them to kill them. Then 

clean, break the ends of the claws, salt and pepper. 

Crush the hard shell a little, roll in corn meal, or in beaten 

eg-g - , then roll in flour or meal, and fry in hot grease until 

brown on both sides. _ T 

Miss Carrie Levy. 

Oyster Patties. 

Line a small patty pan with puff paste, and bake a 
lig-ht brown; when done, fill with oysters already stewed. 
The patties should be served and eaten as soon as prepared 

Mrs. Oliver. 



patent Medicines at Cut-Prices. 

WILLIAM G. NAPP, PHARMA CIST, 

Cor. PERRIER and ROBERT STS., 

One square above Prytania Market, 6th District. 



Our stock of Drugs and Chemicals are always fresh and pure. Try our 
Flavoring Extracts. No substitution practiced. Prescriptions com- 
pounded with care at all hours. WVVe meet honest competition. 



SPECTACLES, OCULISTS' 

EYE GLASSES PRESCRIPTIONS 

• •and.. FILLED. 

LORGNETTES. 



G. F. BOWLES, 

Hen Bu e iidi„ S ;. 209 Caronde/et Street, NEW ORLEANS. 



Optician, 



Billington's Lightning Liniment! 



The Best Ache-Curer! 
Pain Soother!! 
Rheumatic Reliever ! ! ! 



All Druggists, 10 & 25c. 

Circulars free. 

Agents wanted everywhere. 



J. W. BILLINGTON, 

Magazine and Joseph Sts. NEW ORLEANS, LA. 



Established 1860 New York Office. 314 Broadway. 

The H. & D. FOLSOM ARMS CO., 

Manufacturers and Importers of 

Guns, Revolvers # Ammunition, 

BICYCLES AND SPORTING GOODS, 
^113 and 115 DECATUR STREET,^ 

rsl«^>iv Orleans. L^ei- 



Oysters and Crabs 31 

Oyster Toast. 

A nice little dish for a luncheon or late supper. Scald 

a quart of oysters in their own liquor, take them out and 

pound or chop them to a paste; add a little cream or fresh 

butter, and some pepper and salt. Get ready some thin 

slices of toast moistened with boiling- water; and spread 

with fresh butter; then spread over the butter the oyster 

paste. Put a thin slice of fresh cut lemon on each piece, 

and lay parsley on the platter. Serve this hot or it will 

not be grood. _. _ _ „ 

Mrs J. T. Sawyer, 

Oyster Pie. 

Three dozen oysters, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 tea- 
spoonful of flour, 1 onion, a little parsley, salt and pepper. 
Brown the flour, fry the onion and add the oyster liquor, 
salt, pepper, parsley, and last, the oysters. Cook a few 
minutes and put into a larg-e baking- pan into which has 
been put a short pie crust. Put another crust on top and 
bake, French Cook. 

Stuffed Crabs. 

Boil 1 dozen crabs for about twenty minutes, pick the 
meat from the shells. Take 1 larg-e onion and fry in hot 
lard until soft. Soak some stale bread and squeeze tight, 
add a cupful of the bread, 2 eg-gs, pepper and salt, chop 
parsley; now take from the fire and add the crab-meat, 
mix well, have the shells washed and dried and fill with 
the stuffing-. Sprinkle toasted bread crumbs on top of 
each one, and put them in the oven and bake about ten 
minutes. Mrs. Briggs- 



32 



Oysters and Crabs 



Fried Oysters. 

A LA BATTLESHIP MAINE. 

Take large oysters from their own liquor put into a 
thickly folded napkin to dry them; then make hot an ounce 
each of butter and lard in a thick bottomed frying- pan. 
Season the oysters with pepper and salt, then dip each one 
into egg and cracker crumbs railed fine, until it will take up 
no more. Place them in the hot grease and fry them a deli- 
cate brown, turning them on both sides by sliding a broad 
bladed knife under them. Serve crisp and hot. 

Mrs. A. C. King. 




Fish 33 

Ufa. jrife Aulk .nflhr .irffci Ac. mlflk .wttr. atk jAc .irfk .irfk jflfc. ..irfflk 4k ^K 
ftf.r-ii.gir apt sqgpc Jqpnqp V ^pr^r^p v J^'jyr^gr -^ V qg 



"Master, I marvel how the fishes live in the sea! 
Why as men do a'land; the great ones eat up the little ones " 

To test fish when cooking-, pass a knife along- a bone 
and if it is done, the fish will separate easily. Remove the 
moment it is done, or it will become insipid. In boiling- a 
fish always plung-e it into boiling- water and then set where 
it will simmer g-ently until done. Garnishes tor fish are 
parsley, sliced beets and lemon. 

COURTBOUILLION. 

Take sliced red fish or snapper. Fry each piece brown, 
make a brown gravy with flour, tomatoes, bay-leaves, a 
slice of lemon, some spice. Cook the fried fish for half an 
hour in the gravy and serve. Miss R. Caywood. 

Baked Red Fish. 

For one large fish, take 1 cup water and 1 can toma- 
toes, bay leaves, 1 tablespoon of butter, salt and pepper to 
suit taste and baste well while baking. 

Mrs. H. W. Knickerbocker. 

To Fry Fresh Herring. 

Remove scales, clean, wash and dry; after salting them 
put in a dish with beaten eggs, turn in powdered toast and 
fry in butter till brown. Mrs. J. B. A. Ahrens. 



34 Fish. 

Boiled Fish. 

Clean thoroughly a large red fish or sheephead. Put 
into a pot of boiling water, 1 large onion, 1 large head of 
garlic, 2 large carrots, 1 lemon sliced fine, bay leaves, cel- 
ery, parsley (stems and leaves) salt and pepper, boil until 
all the vegetables are soft enough to mash with the potato 
masher. When the water is well seasoned with the vege- 
tables, tie the fish in a towel and place in the boiling water 

and let boil for half an hour. When done set aside (in the 
water) to cool. Serve cold with a boiled sauce. 

SAUCE. 

Boil 2 eggs hard, rub the yolks fine with 2 tablespoons 
of sweet oil, using drop by drop. Take the white of the 
eggs, chop fine with parsley, green onions, olives, mix all 
together with a tablespoon of capers sauce, vinegar, pep- 
per and salt. Put your fish on a platter, garnish with 
crisp lettuce leaves, on which are thin slices of lemon and 
radishes. Pour your gravy over it and serve very cold. 

Mrs. D. Rosenbaum. 



Trout a la Veiiitiemie. 

After well-cleaning your trout, make slashes in the 
back and insert butter rolled in parsley, lemon, thyme, 
basil, chives, all minced very fine; pour some salad oil over 
it, and let it lie for half an hour, cover it with bread 
crumbs and chopped sweet herbs, boil it over a clear fire 
which is not too quick, and serve it wUh sauce. 

Mrs. J. T. Sawyer. 



Fish. 35 

Lemon Sauce for Fish. 

To half a pint of butter sauce, add the juice of a lemon 
and another lemon sliced; take out the seeds, and let aU 
boil tog-ether. This is good with broiled Spanish mackerel 
or pompano, also with broiled fish. 

Mrs. J. T, Sawyer. 

Egg Sauce With Lemon. 

Boil six eggs; when cold, take off the shells, and slice 
them into a cup of melted butter; add pepper and salt, and 
stir constantly while heating. Add the juice of a lemon 
or vinegar, or catsup, as preferred. This sauce is equally 
g*ood for broiled fish or poultry. 

Mrs. J. T. Sawyer. 



36 Meats and Folds. 

[ Meats -Fowls] 



Boiled Meats should be put into boiling- water at the 
beginning to preserve its juices. Keep the water boiling 
constantly or the meat will soak up the water. Remove 
meat from water as soon as done. 

Science of Baking or Roasting Beef. 

Put your beef in a very hot oven at first, keeping the 

temperature at 300° or more for half an hour, then reduce 

the heat for the remainer of the time to 200°. Baste the 

meat every 15 minutes. The great heat at first hardens as 

well as browns the outer surface, this keeps in the juice. 

But if the high temperature is kept up the roast will be 

hard and dry all throug-h instead of rare and juicy as it 

should be. ■ 

Mrs. Buchell. 

How to Flavor a Tenderloin Steak. 

To assure a delicious steak broil a tenderloin and at the 
same time small bits of .round steak which contains a great 
deal of well flavored juice. Cut the round steak into small 
bits and squeeze in a lemon squeezer over the tenderloin. 
By this method you get a delicious juicy steak. 

Mrs. Bucheix. 



Meats and Fowls. 37 

Steak Roll. 

Beat the steak well, make a dressing" of bread crumbs, 
pepper, salt, onions, sage and celery, fry it a little, then 
put it on the steak and roll up and tie, put in oven and 

Mrs Minnie Wilkinson. 

Roast Beef and Yorkshire Pudding. 

Rub a rib roast with salt and pepper, and if not very 
fat, put in pieces of beef suet. On top and around in pan 
place pieces of suet, and with these drippings baste every 
ten minutes. Add no water at all. For rare beef, allow 
15 minutes to the pound; well done, 20 minutes. With- 
in twenty minutes of serving- remove roast, pour all the 
drippings into a can for future use except about two table- 
spoonsful and into this pour the pudding-, made as follows: 
3 egg's well beaten together, to this add a pint of sweet 
milk, 3 rounded tablespoons of flour measured before sift- 
ing, and salt and pepper to taste. Cook until set. Cut in 
squares and serve around roast. This is the real old En- 
glish roast-beef, and if basted properly, is very delicious. 

Mrs. Florence E. Russ. 

Broiled Beef Steak. 

Flatten it with the broad side of a hatchet and broil 
upon a buttered grid-iron over a g-ood strong- fire; lay it 
upon a hot dish; season with pepper, salt a large spoon of 
butter and some finely chopped parsley. Serve at once. :J J§ 

Mrs. Briggs. 



38 Meats and Fowls. 

Cold Daube. 

8 pounds good roast, 1 pound fresh fat pork, 4 pigs 
feet, 4 calves feet, 2 beeves feet. Put in pan over night 
cover with vinegar and let soak. Cut the pork in 
thin slices. Next morning, put red pepper in the slices of 
the pork, cut slits in the pork and slip in the peppers ; 
cover with water and boil slowly until boiled down and 
thoroughly cooked. Cook the calves and pigs feet separate- 
ly, (remove all the bones) all to pieces and stir altogether 
while warm. Cool rapidly in a pan or dish from which it 

can be turned out whole. _, _ _ _ 

Mrs. B. S. Story. 

Virginia Brunswick Stew. 

3 gallons water, to which add two chickens cut small, 
1 pound fat bacon cut small. When the chickens are suffi- 
ciently cooked, remove the meat from the bones and return 
to the water, then add | gallon Irish potatoes, boiled and 
mashed, 1£ pints green corn cut fine, 1 pint butter beans, 
1 quart tomatoes peeled, add onions if liked, pepper, salt 
and butter. When nearly done add one small loaf of bread. 
When it begins to thicken stir constantly until done, if too 
thick add more water. When properly made no one can 
detect any of the ingredients. Q 

i_/. o« r ARKER • 

Meat Balls. 

Chop fine whatever cold meat you have, fat and lean 

together; pepper and salt it. 1 chopped onion, 2 slices of 

bread which have been soaked in milk, 1 egg, mix all 

together well. Bake in a form. ._ __ _ 

Mrs. M. Walker. 



Meats and Fowls. 39 

DAUBE 

Take four or five pounds of beef (off the round), poke 

holes in it, push small bits of pork fat and garlic into 

the gashes. Have the lard boiling- hot, put in the beef 

and brown on both sides. Take out of the pot and brown 

flour and onions; add a pint of boiling- water, tomatoes, 

garlic, spices. Put the beef in the pot and simmer slowly 

for three hours. ., ^ » 

Miss R. Caywood. 

Thorough mastication is important to accomplish this, 
the teeth should be in good condition. Good Fillings 
$1.00 up, inserted without pain. 

Boston Dental Co., 
St. Charles avenue corner Washington. 

DRY HASH. 

Chop either soup meat or cold steak very fine, removing 
all fat and gristle. Boil and mash 3 or 4 potatoes, mix 
meat and potatoes. Have ready onion chopped fine and 
fried in butter, mix with meat and potatoes. Make into 
small cakes after seasoning with salt and pepper. Fry 
in hot lard very brown. 

French Hash. 

Cold soup-meat chopped fine, with onion, pepper and 
salt. Then put mashed potatoes about a half an inch in 
baking pan, then the chopped meat, well buttered, and so 
on until it is all in; being careful to have the last layer 
potatoes. Spread butter over the top, and put it in the 
oven to brown. Mrs. Pierce. 



40 Meats and Fowls. 



Remnants of Soup Meat with Onions. 

Cut the meat in thin slices, saturate with salt water, 
add to the butter or lard a few well chopped onions. When 
they are brown put in the meat, cover the pan. Turn the 
meat after frying- a while; when both sides are brown re- 
move. Add to the lard a small quantity of water and flour 
when a thick sauce, put over the meat and serve while hot. 

Beefsteak. 

When the pan is very hot moisten it with butter. Put 
jn the steak and let fry three or four minutes. Remove to 
a hot dish add necessary salt and pepper. Saturate both 
sides with butter, and serve while warm. 

Mrs. J. B. A. Ahrens. 



Chile Con Carne. 

Take a pint of cold meat, any kind, or odds and ends 
of several kinds can be used, cut it into bits a little longer 
than the end of your finger, add a chopped onion, x 4 pint 
of left over gravy, a cupful of tomatoes, stew gently half 
an hour. About five minutes before taking- off the fire, stir 
in a saltspoonful of salt and a dessertspoonful of ground 
Chile pepper. 



Meats mid Fowls. 41 

Fried Chicken with Cream Gravy. 

1 young- chicken cut in small pieces; put 1 large kitchen 
spoon of lard in a frying- pan and let it get very hot, salt 
and pepper the chicken and roll each piece in flour; fry in 
the hot lard until brown and tender; dish it. Rub 1 spoon 
of flour and 1 of butter tog-ether, stir in the gravy with 1 
cup sweet milk, stir until thickened, add a little salt and 
pepper and parsley cut fine, pour over the chicken. 

Miss Lilly B. Riggs. 

Fried Chicken. 

Cut the chicken into small pieces and wash thoroughly. 
Have 2 eggs beaten, with a little salt, into which dip the 
chicken and then into rolled cracker crumbs, and fry in 

Mrs. J. B. A. Ahrens. 

Fried Chicken. 

Have your chicken well cleaned and salted. Put some 
butter to brown in larg-e pot, then put in your chicken and 
fry till lig-ht brown on both sides, add a little water and 
cover pot tight. Baste frequently with the gravy and add 
water as needed. A young- chicken will require at least 
one hour of cooking- before done. Turkey can be prepared 
the same way, but it will require three hours cooking. 



42 Meats and Fowls. 

Chicken Fricassee. 

Cut tender chicken into small pieces. Put in the pot 
with sufficient water to cover. Boil until tender. Strain 
the liquor, take a tablespoon of butter and sufficient flour 
to make a gravy with the liquid. Put the chicken into 
this, add either parsley or pepper or any seasoning- pre- 
ferred. Boil a few minutes. .. T ~ 

Mrs. J- Cohen. 

Rice Dressing With Oysters. 

Put 3 cups rice in 2 cups of water over a quick fire, let 

come to a good boil, then cover closely and cook slow for 

y A hour. Put a large spoon of lard in a pan, add one small 

onion cut fine, 1 tablespoon pulverized sage, 1 spoon of salt 

1 teaspoon of pepper, add 3 dozen oysters, cook altogether 

10 minutes. Turn the rice out in a bowl, beat 2 eggs and 

1 spoon of butter into it well, add the oysters and gravy, 

and enough juice from the oysters to make soft. This 

is enough to dress a medium sized turkey. The oysters 

can be omited if desired . , ~ _, 

Mrs Lilly B. Riggs. 



Vegetables. 43 



Vegetables. 



''Oh, better, no doubt is a dinner of herbs 

When seasoned by love, which no rancor disturbs, 

And sweetened by all that is sweetest in life. 

Than turbot, bisque, ortolans, eaten in strife." 

— Lucile. 

Corn Oysters. 

6 ears of corn grated, 1 cup cracker crumbs, 2 eggs, 1 

tablespoonful sweet cream, pepper and salt to taste. Fry 

in butter. A/r . „ 7 

Mrs Alma S. Wynn. 

Baked Rice. 

Take boiled rice, place a layer in a baking dish, then 
on that a layer of stewed tomatoes, sprinkle with fried 
minced onions, and repeat the layers till dish is full. 
Sprinkle over the top with bread crumbs, dot with bits of 
butter, bake half an hour covered, then uncover and brown. 

Mrs. J. H. Magruder. 

Fried Egg Plant. 

Peel and cut the plant in slices less than one half inch 
thick, immerse in salt water over an hour; drain and dip 
each slice in beaten egg and bread crumbs, and fry brown. 

Miss V. Thibodeaux. 



44 Vegetable*. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Take 4 large tomatoes cut top off and use the inside, 

chopped fine with parsley, onions, salt and pepper. Mix 

with this, 1 teaspoonful of butter, 3 tablespoonsful of corn, 

3 tablespoonsful of bread crumbs. Then replace in tomato 

skins and bake. _ _ 

Mrs. Frank A. Daniels. 

Tomato Aspic. 

For twelve people 1 can of tomatoes will be required. 
Steam and put them in a sauce pan with one slice of 
onion, two bay leaves, a few celery tops, a teaspoonful of 
salt and a dash of cayenne. Bring- to boiling- point and 
add three-quarters of a box of g-elatine which has been 
soaked in one-half cup of cold water for one half hour. 
Mix until dissolved, add the juice of half a lemon and 
strain ag-ain. Pour into eg-g- cups or moulds and let stand 
aside on ice for four or five hours. When ready to use 
plung-e the cups in hot water for a minute and turn the 
aspic out on lettuce leaves. Serve with mayonnaise. 

Mrs. F. A. Dicks. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 

Take 4 or 5 larg-e tomatoes, slice the top off, then cut 
out the heart of the tomato, without breaking- the skin. 
Chop the heart with six sweet peppers, a little soaked 
bread, a teaspoon of butter, salt to taste. Put this back in- 
to the tomato skin, sprinkle a little bread crumbs with a 
little butter on top of each tomato. Bake in a moderate 
oven till brown. Miss L. Dirker. 



Vegetables, 45 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Take 6 large ripe tomatoes, skin and cut into small 
pieces, spread a layer in the bottom of a baking- dish, sea- 
son well, put a layer of coarse bread crumbs over the toma 
toes with plenty of butter; continue this until the dish is 
full, having- the bread crumbs on the top. Bake one hour, 

How to Fry Plantaiis. 

Slice them and fry. As you take them out of the skil- 
let sprinkle sug-ar over them. After all are fried, put a 
tablespoonful of butter in skillet and put all in it. Pour a 
little warm water over them and sprinkle about a tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, then set in oven and bake. 

another. 

Slice'and fry them till soft, make a thick syrup and 
pour over them. MrS- j w Billington. 

Green Fried Tomatoes. 

Take full grown tomatoes, wash, cut off part next to 
the stem, cut in thin slices, salt and pepper, fry in hot fat 
lard and butter mixed. After rolling- the slices in flour or 
meal, fry until brown on both sides. 

Mrs. N. L. Jenkins. 

Irish Potato Cakes. 

Take cold Irish potatoes or fresh boiled ones, mash 

and add gradually hot water. Make a batter with flour, 

a teaspoon of Dixie baking- powder, pepper and salt. Fry 

in boiling lard as you do fritters. ., . ^ _ 

* Mrs. A. F. O. 



46 Vegetables. 

Scolloped Onions, Cauliflower or Asparagus. 

Boil either vegetable until tender, then put in baking- 
dish and pour over a sauce made ol 1 tablespoon butter beat 
into \?i tablespoonful of flour; pour over it 1 pint of hot 
milk and cook until like custard. Bake one half hour, cut 
cauliflower or asparagus into small pieces before pouring 
the sauce over it. 

Baked Macaroni. 

Boil a y<z pound of macaroni in boiling water (salted) 
till tender, drain and put in a buttered pudding dish in 
layers with grated cheese between. When your dish is 
full pour over all this a white sauce and cover well with 
grated cheese and a little butter, then bake till brown. 

White Sauce. 

Take ^ pint of milk or milk and water, 1 teaspoon 
of butter, 1 heaping tablespoon of flour and J teaspoon of 
salt and pepper. Heat the milk, put the butter into a small 
sauce pan, stir till it melts and bubbles. Be careful not to 
brown it. Add the dry flour to the butter, stir quickly till 
well mixed. Pour \ of the milk, let boil up, stir well as it 
thickens, then add gradually the rest of milk, and the 
pepper and salt. Mrs a ^ Q 

Sweet Potato Pone. 

1 quart grated sweet potatoes, 2 cups su£ar, 1 cup flour 
3 eggs, 2 pints milk, 1 small teaspoon of soda, 1 teaspoon 
alspice. Beat sugar and eggs together, mix with the pota- 
toes and flour, add the milk, soda and spice and bake in a 

slow oven. , , _ . T 

Mrs. C. A. Longnecker. 



Vegetables. 47 

Egg Plant. 

Take one egg- plant and boil till soft, peel. Put 4 or 5 

slices of bread in water; when sufficiently soft squeeze dry 

and season with a little thyme, onions, pepper and salt. 

Fry the onion soft. Mix all together, make into cakes and 

fry brown. 

Miss R. Caywood, 

RICE. 

Take one cup of rice, and two cups of water; let come 
to a boil, stir once, and put aside where it will cook slowly 
until all water has evaporated. When dry on top, take off 
the cover and put another lid under it while it cooks 

Miss R. Caywood. 

SPAGHETTI. 

Boil very tender 1 pound spaghetti, drain off water 
and add J pound creamery cheese chopped fine, a large 
tablespoonful of butter, an onion and two large tomatoes, 
chopped fine, red pepper and salt to taste. Pour into bak- 
ing pan and bake slowly until onions are throughly done 
and spaghetti is brown. A very small piece of garlic adds 

a flavor. _ _ . _ 

Mrs. A. Johnson. 

Stuffed Potatoes. 

Scrape 8 large Irish potatoes; bake and when soft take 
out center. Have tomatoes and green peas stewed to- 
gether with a little butter; season highly. Mix with the 
potatoes taken from the center, fill the shells and return to 

the oven for ten minutes. ._ A _. 

Mrs. Annie Flake. 



48 Vegetables 

Macaroni, Italian Style. 

Gravy for three pounds of macaroni. Take two or three 

pounds of meat, beef or pork, brown thoroughly and then 

take it out of the pot, chop 3 or 4 onions very fine, and 

brown them thoroughly; add one large size can of 

tomatoes and brown. Put in the meat let it cook slow for 

two hours, salt and pepper to suit the taste. , , T 

r FF Mary Jane. 

Stuffed Cabbage. 

Choose a large firm cabbage, take off the outer leaves, 
and lay cabbage in boiling water 10 minutes, then in cold. 
Do this several hours before you are ready to stuff it. 
When cold bind a broad tape about it, that it may not fall 
apart when the stalk is taken out. Remove the stalk 
with a sharp knife, leaving a hole as deep as your middle 
finger. Without widening the mouth, remove the center 
until you have room for 4 or 5 tablespoonsful of the force 
meat. Chop the bits you take out very small, mix with 
some cold boiled pork, ham or cooked sausage meat, a lit- 
tle onion, pepper, salt, pinch of thyme and some bread 
crumbs. Fill the cavity with this. Bind a wide strip of 
muslin over the hole in the top and lay cabbage in large 
sauce pan, with a pint of liquor from boiled ham or beef. 
Stew gently till tender, take out, unbind carefully, lay on a 
dish. Add to the strained gravy a piece of butter rolled in 
flour, 2 tablespoons rich milk, pepper; boil up and pour 

over the cabbage* ,, A/r TXT 

s Mrs. M. Walker. 



Vegetables. 



49 



Dread of the dental chair has spoiled many a g-ood 
meal, we use painless methods in every department. 

Boston Dental Co., 
St. Charles avenue corner Washing-ton 

String Beans. 

Take off the string's and break them into pieces, cook 
tender in boiling- water, add a little salt, drain them, and 
put in a hot dish. Butter freely and serve. 

Mks. Briggs. 




50 * Salads. 



i SALADS. 1 



Oyster Salad. 

Boil two dozen oysters in their own liquor five minutes, 
drain, wash in cold water, then dry and stand away until 
very cold. When cold mix with half a cup of Mayonnaise, 
and serve on crisp lettuce leaves. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Yolks of two eg-g-s well beaten, half teaspoon of mus- 
tard, 1£ teaspoons of vinegar, half teaspoon salt, small half 
cup of olive oil, pinch of red pepper. Have all the materials 
as cold as possible. Beat the eggs and mustard one minute 
and begin adding- the oil a drop at a time, beating- con- 
tinually- When like a jelly add a little lemon juice, and 
begin with a few drops of vineg-ar at a time, beating- all the 
while. If there is a tendency to curdle, put back on the 
ice a few minutes. When the vineg-ar is used up add the 
salt and pepper, whip five minutes more; pour into a giass 

and keep on ice until served. _, ^ XT ■ 

Mrs. S. H. Montgomery. 

Mock Chicken Salad. 

3 lbs. white veal boiled until tender. 8 hard boiled eggs 
chopped not too fine, 10 cucumber pickles chopped, 3 heads 
celery chopped, J small bottle sweet oil, salt, pepper and 
vinegar to taste. Mrs. G. P. Work. 



Salads. 51 

Salad Dressing- Without Oil. 

1 eg-g", 3 tablespoons vinegar, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tea- 
spoon mustard, a pinch of salt, a pinch of pepper, put into 
a pan and stand over boiling water, stirring constantly till 
quite thick. Mrs. A. F. Godat. 

Chicken Salad. 

Boil until thoroughly tender. Then mince the meat 
very fine, perfectly free from bones and skin. Boil hard 1 
dozen eg-gs. Take the yolks and rub up with vineg-ar. To 
this add 1 tablespoon of strong mustard, \ of black pepper 
same quantity of salt, 1 cup of melted butter, and one 
of vinegar. Then mince fine two larg-e stalks of celery, 
and add all tog-ether. Mrs. S. Henderson. 

Fish Salad. 

Boil 1 medium red snapper, seasoning- well. Have salad 
dish g-arnished with lettuce leaves, place fish on it, and 
dress with a Mayonnaise made as follows: Yolks of 2 raw 
eggs, yolk of 1 cooked eg-g, season with a pinch of mus- 
tard, cayenne pepper and salt to taste; one pint of sweet 

oil and juice of 1 lemon. 

Mrs. E. V. Unsworth. 

Cold or Hot Slaw. 

1 egg-, beat lig"ht, 1 tablespoon of dry mustard beat up 

well with the egg, 2 tablespoons of sugar, salt to taste, £ 

head medium sized white cabbage chopped very fine, 

enoug-h vineg-ar to moisten the cabbag-e Mix cabbage and 

vineg-ar with all the above ingredients, place on fire and 

boil up once. Serve hot or cold. 

Mrs. Alice M. Zable. 



52 Salads. 

Salad Dressing. 

One cup vinegar, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon of butter, 1 tea- 
spoon mustard, 1 teaspoon of sugar, pinch of salt. Boil 
the vinegar, mix butter, mustard, sugar and salt, beat eggs 
very light, put together, then pour the boiling vinegar 
slowly stirring all the time. Return to pan, let cook to 
boiling point, still stirring. Cool before using. This is 
excellent for all kinds of salads. 

Mrs. A. J. Ckebbin. 

Salmon Salad. 

Take a one pound tin can of the best salmon obtain- 
able, remove it from the can and divide it into not too fine 
pieces. Line a bowl or platter with lettuce leaves, add the 
salmon. Squeeze over it a little lemon juice. Mash with 
dressing, garnish with lemon slices, egg- rings, or lettuce. 

Lobster Salad. 

Use one-third Lobsters, one-third Cod or Halibut and 
one-third potatoes with water cress or other salad green 
use a few spoonfuls of dressing in mixing ingredients, 
then mask with dressing and decorate. 

Mrs. J. W. Billington. 

Salad Dressing. 

1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon dry mustard, mix 
to a cream, 2 well beaten eggs, stir in slowly, pepper and 
salt to taste, add 8 teaspoons of cider vinegar, stirring all 
the time and cook in a double boiler. 

G. F. Cocker , 



Salads. 53 

Have you lost some teeth? Have the difficulty bridged, 
$3 and $5 up. Boston Dental Co., 

St. Charles avenue corner Washing-ton. 

Tomato Egg Salad. 

Place in salad dish a bit of lettuce leaves, then on this 
a layer of sliced tomatoes, then a layer of sliced hard boil- 
ed eggs, sprinkle over this celery, salt and pepper, and then 
another layer of tomatoes and so on till dish is full, over 
this pour a mayonnaise dressing-. This is a very nice salad. 

Mrs. E. P. Lowe. 

Salmon Salad. 

1 can salmon, x / 2 pound crackers rolled, 3 hard boiled 
eggs, 8 small pickles chopped fine, 1 head celery. Salad 
dressing-: 6 tablespoonfuls vineg-ar, heated. Take yolks of 2 
eg-gs (raw) and mix into it, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, and but- 
ter size of two hickory nuts, salt, pepper, mustard and 
sugar. Add this to the scalding vinegar and cook till thick 

as cream. , T . ~ TTT 

Mrs. Alma S. Wynn. 

Chicken Salad. 

Take 1 large hen or rooster, boil till quite tender, put 
by to cool. Save the jelly oil from water in which chicken 
is boiled to add to salad. Boil from 12 to 18 eggs hard. 
Then chop up fine 8 or 10 bunches of celery, 1 small bot- 
tle of pickles, about 1 tablespoon of mustard, vinegar, salt, 
and red and black pepper to taste. Chop up the chicken 
and eggs. Mix all well together. 

Mrs. S. S. Keener. 



Eggs. 




Egg Crumb Pie. 

6 hard boiled eggs, two cups fine bread crumbs. Put 
first a layer of bread crumbs in dish, then the thin sliced 
eggs, little pepper, salt and butter, then another layer of 
bread crumbs and so on till the dish is filled, last layer to 
be of eggs; pour over all a cup of sweet milk, and brown in 

the oven. . , ^ « _. , „ ., . T 

Mrs. F. E. McLemore, Delhi, La. 



Tom Thumb Omelet. 

8 eggs beat well, 1 cup grated cheese, J cup sweet milk 
fry in hot butter, season with salt. 

Mrs. J. H. Magruder. 

Baked Eggs. 



Grease a plate with butter, break the eggs and put on 
the plate, sprinkle salt and pepper, and a little butter over 
them and bake in hot oven for a minute or two. This is 
more digestible than fried eggs. 



Puddings and Sauces. 55 



d Puddings and Sauces w 

V ^- ^,- -v.- ^- >*• ^- ^ • ^ -^ -^ -^ ^ ^' 



"The proof of the pudding is in the eating" 



Royal Diplomatic Pudding. 

To 1 box gelatine add 1 glass of water. When dis- 
solved divide into half. To one half add three glasses of 
granulated sugar, 1 half glass of lemon juice and 1 glass of 
water. Heat a little to get the sugar to melt, then colour 
with leaf green. To the other half of gelatine add 2 glasses 
of sugar and 1 glass of orange juice. Color with red fruit 
coloring, and when ready to congeal add the whites of 3 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth and add to the green. This 
makes a lovely dessert, looks like water-melon. 

Mrs. F. A. Lyons. 

Apricot Pudding. 

Soak J pint of granulated tapioca overnight in enough 
water to cover it. In the morning drain the juice from a 
can of apricots, stir it into the tapioca, add a half cup of 
sugar and enongh water to make it rather thin. Let this 
boil until clear. Cover the bottom of a pudding dish with 
the fruit, sprinkle with sugar, and pour on the tapioca. 
Bake for half an hour and serve cold with cream. 

Mrs. F. A. Dicks. 



56 Puddings and Sauces. 

Jeff. Davis Pudding. 

1 tea cup of New Orleans molasses, 1 tea cup of beef 
suet, 1 tea cup of butter milk, 1 tea cup of raisins (seeded) 
1 tea cup of currants, 5 cts. worth of citron cut in pieces as 
for cakes, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in butter milk or sifted 
in the flour, three tea cups of flour after it is sifted; mix 
molasses and suet first, then alternately butter-milk and 
flour, then mix the fruit together and flour well, and stir 
in with a grated nutmeg. Grease a mould well and steam 

4 hours. Use boiled sauce as follows: 1 pint granulated 
sugar, 1 heaping tablespoon of butter, with nutmeg or any 
other flavoring to taste. J. W. W. 

Simple Plum Pudding. 

1 cup of molasses, 1 cup of sweet milk, 1 cup of 
chopped raisins, 1 cnp of chopped currants, J cup of butter, 
3£ cups of flour, 1 teaspoon of soda, 1 teaspoon each of the 
spices. Dissolve the soda in a little of the syrup, mix all 
together and put in a double bag and place in boiling 
water, keep on a steady boil for 3 hours. Keep the pot full 
of water and the pudding well covered. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

1 pint milk, 1 pint bread crumbs, £ cup sugar, 3 eggs, 

5 tablespoons grated chocolate. Scald the milk, add bread 
crumbs and chocolate. Take from fire and add sugar, and 
the beaten yolks of eggs. Put in pudding dish, bake 15 
minutes. Beat the whites of eggs with 1 tablespoon of 
sugar, spread on and brown. Serve cold with liquid sauce. 

Mrs. A. F. G 



I biddings and Sauces. 57 

Fig Pudding:. 

3 cups bread crumbs, 1 cup milk, 1 cup sugar (brown 
or white) 1 pound of figs, 1 teaspoon soda, i cup suet 
chopped fine, 2 eggs, spices to taste. Steam 2 hours and 
serve with hot sauce. 

Mrs. Alma S. Wynn. 

Portguese Apple Pudding. 

Peel, core, and stew to a pulp \ dozen tart apples; press 
through a colander; add the grated rind of \ of a lemon 
and sufficient sugar to sweeten. Pare, quarter and core b 
more apples, put them in a baking dish, sprinkle \ cup of 
sugar over then and bake slowly until tender. Line a deep 
pie plate with good paste and bake until well colored. Pour 
into it the stewed apples, piling them up dome shape. 
Cover with a meringue made of the whites of eggs and a 
little sugar, eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Brown in a mod- 
erate oven and serve cold with a Custard Sauce— yolks of 3 
eggs, 1 pint of milk, and 2 tablespoons of sugar. 

Mrs. Rosenbaum. 

Transparent Pudding. 

4 eggs beaten separately, 1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 

beaten together to a cream, add the yolks. Put a layer of 

citron or acid jelly on the crust, pour on the transperancy, 

flavor to suit the taste, and bake, then add the whites as a 

meringue. . 

Amelia Scott. 



58 Pudding* and Sauces. 

Cocoaimt Pudding. 

Grate 1 cocoanut, 3 slices of bread soaked in the cocoa- 
nut milk, 6 eggs beat well with one cup of sugar, 1 pound 
of raisins, J teaspoon Dixie yeast powder. 

SAUCE. 

\ cup of sugar, J cup of butter well beaten with little 

cream and nutmeg-. _ TT . 

S. H. Andrews. 

Banana Pudding. 

1 box gelatine, 5 bananas, 1 quart milk, 1 pint cream, 
2 cups sugar, 1 cup water. Dissolve gelatine in the water, 
scald milk, to which the sugar has been added. Strain the 
gelatine, and stir into the milk. Let simmer 10 minutes, 
cool, slice bananas after peeling into small pieces, and 
stir into jelly before it is stiff. Serve with whipped 

cream - J. w. w. 



Rice Pudding. 

1 cup of cold rice, yolks of 3 eggs beaten, £ cup raisins, 
enough sugar to sweeten, 2 cups sweet milk, beat all to- 
gether, add a little butter. When baked spread over to top 
the whites of eggs beaten with sugar, Flavor with Dixie 

vanilla extract. A/r ,- TT7 

M. M. W. 



Puddings and Sauces. 59 

Do you enjoy your food? A nicely adjusted set of 
teeth may help you. Boston Dental Co., 

St. Charles avenue corner Washing-ton. 

Apple Pudding. 

Fill a buttered baking dish, with sliced apples and 
pour over this a batter made of 1 tablespoon of butter, % 
cup of sugar, 1 egg, \ cup of sweet milk and 1 cup of flour, 
1 teaspoon Dixie yeast powder. Bake in a moderate oven 
till brown. Serve with cream and sugar or liquid sauce. 

Boiled Pudding. 

1 cup suet chopped fine, 1 cup of raisins cut in half, 2 

cups flour, 1 cup milk, 1 cup sugar, a little nutmeg and a 

little salt, 1 teaspoon Dixie yeast powder. Grease and 

flour a tin bucket, put pudding in and boil hard for 2 

hours. Serve with a rich sauce. __ ,. T . 

Miss M. Keen. 



Lemon Pudding. 

1^ pound of sugar, juice and grated rind of 3 lemons, 

8 eggs, \ cup of butter, tablespoon of flour. Beat well 

together, and bake. , , ~ 

& Mrs. Oliver. 



60 Pies and Pastries. 



| Pies and Pastry, 1 



"No soil upon earth is so dear to our eyes, 
As the soil we first stirred in terrestrial pies. 

— O. H. Holmes. 



Mock Mince Pies. 



1 cup bread crumbs dried, and 2 cups seeded and 
chopped (rolled) raisins, J cup molasses, 1 lemon, juice 
and grated rind, nutmeg - , cinnamon, and whatever spice is 
desired. Sugar to taste, little water. 

Mrs. F. R. H. 

Cream Pie. 

Beat thoroughly the yolks of 2 eg-g-s with J cup of 
sug-ar, add 1 heaping- tablespoon of flour, 1 even tablespoon 
of corn starch dissolved in milk. Pour into 1 pint of boiling" 
milk and let cook about 3 minutes. Let cool and flavor to 
taste. M. B. 

Pastry for Pies. 

Sieve 3 cups flour in a pan, salt to taste, add 1 cup 
lard, mix thoroughly with half the flour. Add £ cup water, 
mould lig-htly; roll out, and put it in pans, pricking- it over 
with a knife to prevent blistering-. 



Pii <8 a n d I ^aetries. 6 1 

Lemon Pie. 

1 quart of sweet milk, (condensed milk will do as well) 
the yolks of 5 eg-g-s, 2 heaping- tablespoons of corn starch, 
about 2 cups of sugar or sweeten to taste, 2 lemons the 
grated rind and juice, put the milk on to boil, beat the 
yolk of eg-gs, sug-ar and lemons tog-ether, mix the corn- 
starch with a little milk, put into the boiling milk, and 
when it thickens add the eggs, lemon and sugar. Let all 
cook till it has thickened enough, then stir in a teaspoon of 
butter, and when cold add Dixie Vanilla Flavoring. Have 
the pie crust already cooked, put the mixture in and put 
in the oven to cook a few minutes, then spread over the 
pies the whites of the eg-gs which have been beaten up 
with 4 spoons of sug-ar, brown a little in the oven. 

Mrs. J. W. Wilkinson. 

Filling for Lemon Pies. 

Grate the yellow covering- and squeeze out the juice of 
2 lemons into a granite pan; add 2 cups flour, 2 cups sugar, 
the yolks of 4 eg-gs, reserving- the whites in a separate 
dish, add 4 tablespoonsful flour, 2 cups water added slowly 
while stirring-. When smooth, cook until thick enough to 
pour into the crust, which should be already baked. Beat 
the 4 whites of eg-g-s into a froth, add 1 cup sug-ar, 1 tea- 
spoonful of Dixie lemon extract. Pour over the pies, return 
to oven until the white top becomes a light brown. 

Mrs. N. L. Jenkins. 



62 Pies and Pastries. 



Lemon Fie. 



1 large lemon, 1 cup sugar, £ cup of water, 2 eggs, 1 
teaspoon of flour. Grate lemon, using it in the juice, mix 
juice and eggs together, then stir in sugar, mixing well, 
mix the u ater, then flour lastly. 

paste. 
1 cup flour, (with a pinch of salt) sifted, rub in 2 
tablespoons of lard, then roll out for pie pan. 

Mrs, Frank A. Daniels. 

Orange Pie. 

Slice 3 oranges, peel, take out the pits. Leave them 
over-night in sugar, next day put the sliced oranges on a 
well made pie crust in a pie pan. Then take the yolks of 
8 eggs, Ik cups of powdered sugar, lemon juice and grated 
rind of 1 lemon. Put it on the stove and stir constantly till 
it thickens. Beat the white of the eggs to a froth, and 
mix all together. Now pour it on your oranges and bake. 

Mrs. Adler. 

Transparent Custard. 

6 eggs, 2 cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 1 tablespoon 
of cornstarch and Dixie vanilla extract, beat butter and 
sugar to a cream, then add the yolks beaten to a froth with 
the cornstarch and extract. Stir all together and bake in 
nice crust. When done spread the beaten whites of eggs 
and 6 tablespoons of sugar, over the pie and brown slightly. 

Mrs. F. E. McLemore, Delhi, La. 



Pies and Pastri< s. 63 

Custard Fruit Fie. 

Make a good pie crust, rub a little flour on it and lay 
on your pie plates. Put stewed fruit in it and pour over 
them a custard made with 2 eggs, 1 cup of milk and a cup 
of sugar, beaten together. Enough for 2 pies. 

Mrs- A. F. Godat. 

Sweet Potato Pies. 

Boil 5 large sweet Pototoes till soft, mash and season 
with sugar, butter, 2 eggs, nutmeg and a cup of milk, mix 
all together and put in the crust enough for 3 pies. 

Miss Caywood. 

, Mince Meat. 

1 beef tongue, 2 pounds of raisins, 2 pounds of cur- 
rants, 2 dozen of apples, | pound of beef suet, h pound of 
citron, 2 tablespoons of cinnamon, 2 tablespoons of nutmeg, 
2 tablespoons of mace, 1 tablespoon of cloves, 1 tablespoon 
of allspice, 1 tablespoon of salt, 2\ pounds of brown sugar, 
1 quart of cider. Use ground spice. Chop all up finely, 

put in jar and cover up. 

v J Mrs. W. W. Sutcliffe. 



Cakes. 64 



'fe 



CAKES.l 



Watermelon Cake. 

\\ cups sugar, whites of 4 eggs, \ cup sweet milk, y 2 
cup of butter, 2 cups of flour, 1 full teaspoon Dixie baking 
powder. Cream butter and sugar well together, then add 
the milk, afterward stir in a little flour, then a little egg, 
and so on until all the ingredients are added. Then take 
1J cups of pink sugar (any good confectioner can supply it) 
\ cup sour milk, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoonful Dixie baking 
powder. Flavor the pink part with anything you prefer, 
rose water is much used. Seed % pound of good raisins, 
rub well in flour, to prevent them sinking. After the 
dough of both kinds are ready, spread the bottom and 
sides of the pan with the white dough; fill up with the 
pink, leaving enough of the white to cover over top en- 
tirely. Bake carefully. Be sure it is well done before re- 
moving from the pan. This cake is very popular with 
young people. Mrs. Florence E. Russ. 

Sponge Cake. 

10 eggs, beat separate; L pound of sugar, § pound of 
flour, 1 tablespoonful of Dixie baking powder. Flavor with 
lemon, add the whites of the eggs last. 

Miss Mollje Walker. 



Cakes. 65 

Velvet Sponge (Jake. 

2 eggs, beaten light; beat in 1 cupful of granulated or 
powdered sugar, £ cupful of sifted flour, next £ cupful of 
flour sifted with 1 teaspoonful of Dixie baking powder, and 
lastly, J cupful of boiling water very gradually. Have the 
tin buttered. Fill and bake immediately in a well heated 
oven. The baUer will seem very thin, but the cake is ex- 
cellent. By the use of one more egg any layer cake may 
be made better than with butter. For this save 2 whites 
out for frosting, using the other egg and 2 yolks for the 
cake. Bake in layer cake tins. Whip the whites stiff, 
and stir in sugar. Spread between each layer, and over 
the top. For cocoanut cake sprinkle cocoanut over the 
frosting between the layers, and thickly over the top layer. 
For chocolate, grate i teacupful of Baker's chocolate, and 
stir in the frosting, and use as before. 

Sponge Cake. 

Separate the whites and yolks of 4 eggs. When the 
whites are stiff enough, beat into them h cup of sugar, 
beating for 5 minutes. Add to the yolks the juice and 
grated rind of a lemon. Now beat well together the yolks 
and whites. Add 1 cup of flour stirring it in as lightly as 
possible. (Never beat a sponge cake after adding the flour) 
Bake for 25 minutes in a moderate oven. Just before put- 
ting in the oven sprinkle on the top through a sifter, about 
a tablespoonful of granulated sugar. 

Mrs D. Kosenbaum. 



66 Cakes. 

Molasses Sponge Cake, 

1 cup of molasses, 2\ cups of flour, \ cup of shortening-, 
\ cup of sugar, a little salt, 1 teaspoon of cinnamon, 1 
teaspoon of ginger. Mix and add 1 teaspoon of soda dis- 
solved in a cup of boiling water. 

Mrs. P. R. Baldwin, Biloxi, Miss. 

Layer Sponge Cake. 

1£ cups powdered sugar, 5 eg-gs, 3 tablespoons water, 
2 cups flour, 2 level teaspoons Dixie baking powder. 
COOKED ICING FILLING. 
1J cups granulated sugar, 9 tablespoons water, cook 
until it begins to rope. Pour it into the whites of three 
eggs, well beaten and beat this until it cools, mix with it 
pecans or chocolate or any you prefer, and spread between 
layers of cake. This will make four good layers. 

Miss Mary Werlein. 

Buffalo Layer Cake. 

1 cup of white sugar, two-thirds cup of sweet milk, 2 
cups of flour, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 teaspoon 
Dixie baking powder. Bake in 3 jelly tins. 
cream filling. 
1 cup sweet milk, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon cornstarch, 2 
tablespoons sugar. Heat the milk until boiling with the 
sugar in it, then add the starch wet in a little cold milk, 
stir until it thickens, put in lastly the egg well beaten. 

Miss Mary Werlein, 



Cakes. 67 

Fruit Cakt\ 

One pound each of butter, sugar, flour, raisins, (seeded 
and chopped) and currants thoroughly cleaned, >4 pound of 
citron shaved fine, and 1 pound or more of nuts, cut fine. 
Cream the butter and sugar together, to which add the 
well beaten yolks of eight eggs, then a part of the flour, 
then add a part of the whites, beaten to a stiff froth; then 
the remainder of the flour, (except a little kept out to mix 
with the fruit, just before putting it in the cake). After 
adding all the whites, beat well; then put in the fruit, and 
mix thoroughly. Bake slowly until done. 

Fruit Cake. 

2 pounds of sugar, 2 pounds of flour, 2 pounds of butter, 
2 pounds of dried currants, 2 pounds of raisins, 2 pounds of 
citron, h spoonful of cloves, and i of a nutmeg, 12 eggs, 
whites beaten to a stiff froth. 

Mrs. G. V. Pierce, Biloxi, Miss. 

Cake and Sauce. 

2 cups sugar, I cup butter, 1 cup milk, 4 eggs, 3£ cups 
of flour, 1 teaspoon vanilla extract, 2 teaspoons Dixie bak- 
ing powder. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add yolks 
of eggs, milk and flavoring, add flour reserving two table- 
spoonfuls; add whites of eggs. Put baking powder in the 
reserved flour and add to cake. 

SAUCE 

Whites of 2 eggs, beat light, add 3 tablespoons of 
powdered sugar, yolks of 2 eggs, and 3 tablespoons of milk 
1 teaspoon of vanilla. Prepare immediately before serving. 

Miss Fannie M. Rayne. 



68 Cake*. 

Cocoanut Pound Cake. 

Beat J pound of butter to a cream; add gradually a 
pound of sifted flour, 1 pound of powdered sugar, 2 tea- 
spoonsful of Dixie baking powder, a pinch of salt, a tea- 
spoonful ol grated lemon-peel, J of a pound of prepared 
cocoanut, 4 well-beaten eggs, and a cup of milk; mix thor- 
oughly; butter the tins, and line them with buttered paper; 
pour the mixture in to the depth of an inch and a half, 
and bake in a good oven. When baked, take out, spread 
icing over them, and return the cake to the oven a moment 

to dry the icing. Perfection cake. 

Mrs. Pierce. 

Citron Pound Cake. 

1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 2 cups flour, 4 eggs, 1^ tea- 
spoons Dixie baking powder, 1 teaspoon essence, 5cts.worth 
of citron. Icing; white of 1 egg, 8 tablespoons pulverized 
sugar. Mrs. Rosenbaum. 

If the teeth are sensitive to sweets half the pleasure is 
lost. This condition should be remedied without delay. 

Boston Dental Co., 
St. Charles avenue corner Washington. 

Cornstarch Cake. 

>2 cup butter, creamed; \ cup of sugar, ]/ 2 cup of milk, 
x /t, teaspoon almond extract, \ cup cornstarch, 1£ cups of 
flour, \ teaspoon of soda, \ teaspoon cream of tartar, whites 
of 6 eggs. Mix in the order given and bake in a moderate: 
oven. Mrs. Holmes. 



( f akes. 69 

White Cup Cake. 

1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 3 cups flour, 
white of 12 eggs, flavoring to suit taste, £ teaspoon of 
Dixie baking powder. 

Another White Cup Cake. 

4 cups flour, 2 cups butter, 1 cup milk, 3 cups sugar. 
Whites of 20 eggs, 1 small teaspoon Dixie baking powder* 
Mrs. F. E. McLemore, Delhi, La. 

White Cake. 

Whites of 8 eggs, well whipped; 3 cups pulverized 
sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup milk, 4 cups sifted flour with 1 
teaspoon cream of tartar, £ teaspoon soda, dissolved in 
milk, juice of 1 lemon. Bake 1 hour in a moderate oven . 

Mrs. Buchell. 

A Nice White Cake. 

Beat the whites of 5 eggs, very light; add 1 cup of 
sugar, | cup of butter, 2 cups of flour, 2 small teaspoonfuls 
of Dixie baHng powder. Bake in a small loaf. 

TCHOUPITOULAS MISSION. 

Sponge Cake. 

Sift 1 cup flour, 1 cup sugar and 1 teaspoon Dixie 
baking powder together, then break 3 eggs into it, and only 
beat enough to get a smooth batter. 

Mrs. Annie Flake. 



TO Cakes. 

White Nut Cake. 

The whites of 7 eg-g-s, 3 cups flour, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 
3 teaspoons Dixie baking- powder, 2 cups pulverized sug-ar, 
2 cups milk, % cup butter, cream the butter and sug-ar; 
then add the flour and milk alternately; then add the 
whites well beaten. Bake this in 4 layers, 1\ pounds pe- 
cans cut fine (reserving- 30 whole to put on the top). Beat 
the whites of 5 egg-s and 1 full cup of pulverized sug-ar to- 
g-ether untihvery stiff; add the cut pecans for the filling-. 
Ice the top, split the 30 pecans and lay them on the top in 
the icing-. Amelia Scott. 

Nut Cake. 

2 cups of sugar, two-thirds cup of butter, 4 eg-g-s, two- 
thirds cup of water or milk, 3 cups of flour, 3 teaspoons 
Dixie baking- powder, 1 cup of nuts. Bake in shallow bak- 
ing pans, and cut into squares with icing-. Currants may 
be substituted for nuts. 

Miss May Williams. 

Nut Cake. 

1 pound flour, 1 pound sug-ar, J lb. butter, 6 egg-s, 1 cup 
sweet milk, 1 grated nutmeg-, 1J pounds raisins stoned, 3 
pounds hulled pecans, 1 teaspoon Dixie baking- powder. 
Cream the butter and sug-ar, beat the eg-gs very lig-ht, all 
tog-ether, and add to butter and sugar, then the milk, flour 
and baking- powder, then the raisins and nuts. Bake in a 
slow oven until a straw will come out without anything- 
sticking to it. Mrs. M. A. Riley. 



Cakes. 71 



Lemon Cake. 



4 eg-gs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup flour, }4 teaspoon Dixie 
baking- powder, 1 tablespoon cold water, £ lemon, juice and 
rind. Mix the yolks of the egg's and sugar together, then 
add the water, sift the flour and measure out an even cup- 
ful. Stir this thoroughly, then the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff dry froth, then the lemon juice and grated 
rind, and lastly the baking powder. Cook in pie or 

jelly pans. 

FILLING 

One cup of hot water, 1 tablespoon of cornstach, 1 cup 
of white sug-ar, 1 tablespoon of butter, juice and grated 
rind of one lemon, 1 egg. Cook a few minutes and spread 
between each cake like jelly. 

Miss Mollie Walker. 

Marble Cake. 

Whites of 7 eggs, 1 cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, % 
cup sweet milk, then 3| cups flour, 1 tablespoonful of Dixie 
baking powder. 

DARK PART. 

Yolks of 7 eg-g-s, 1 cup of molasses, 2 cups of brown 
sugar, y<z cup of butter, 1 cup of sweet milk, 5 cups of flour, 
1 tablespoonful Dixie baking powder, 1 tablespoonful of 
different spices except ging-er, 1 teaspoonful of ginger is 
enoug-h. Grease cake pan, then put in a layer of the white 
batter then the dark and so on, until you have enough in 
the pan. Bake 1 hour. 

Miss Mollie Walker. 



72 Cakes. 

Lemon Cream Layer Cake. 

1 cup of butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 cups flour and 4 eggs, 
2 teaspoons Dixie baking powder. Bake in 4 layers. 

filling. 

2 eggs, 1 cup of sugar, beat very light. Boil 2 cups of 
sweet milk; when the milk comes to a boil stir in 7 spoon- 
fuls of cornstarch wet up in cold milk. Then stir in the 
eggs and sugar, let cook a moment, pour out in a dish and 
flavor with grated rind and juice of 2 lemons, and spread 
between layers of cake. 

Lemon Jelly Filling. 

The juice of two lemons, and grated rind of one, one 
cupful of sugar, one egg, half cupful of water, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of flour mixed with a 
little water. Cook over boiling water until it thickens. 
Place between the layers of cake. This cake will keep well 
and is better at the end of a week than it is the first day. 

Mrs. Pierce. 

Marshmallow Cake. 

1 cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, 3 cups of flour, 2 tea- 
spoons of Dixie baking powder, 1 cup of sweet milk, white 
of 6 eggs, cream, butter and sugar, add milk and flour, 
lastly eggs beaten stiff in three layers. 

filling 

2 cups granulated sugar, \ cup boiling water, let boil. 
Whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff, put 16 marshmallows in a 
slow oven to heat. When the syrup threads when poured 
from a spoon, pour over the eggs and beat well, add marsh- 
mallows, beat smooth and spread. Excellent. 



Cakes. 73 

Caramel Cake. 

J of a pound of butter, whites of 10 egg's, 3 cups gran- 
ulated sugar, % cup of water. 1 quart unsifted flour, one tea- 
spoon Dixie baking powder. Bake in jelly cake pans. 

CARAMEL FOR FILLING FOR THE ABOVE. 

4 cups brown sugar, 1 cup of cream or milk, half cup 
of butter, vanilla. Put all together and stew until it is 
about the consistency of molasses, then fill your cakes. A 
few hulled and well-broken pecans sprinkled over the cara- 
mel before putting on next layer adds very much to it. 
Ornament top with half pecans. 

Caramel Cake. 

2 eggs, 1 cup of brown sugar, £ cup of butter, \ cup of 
milk, \ teaspoonful of soda, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tar- 
tar; 2 cups of flour. 

FOR FILLING. 

2 cups sugar, two-thirds cup of milk, butter nearly as 
large as an egg. Boil 10 minutes, beat till almost cold, 
and flavor with vanilla. This is very nice; try it. 

Mrs. Florence E. Russ. 

Lady Cake. 

%, cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 3 cups flour, 1 cup luke 
warm water, 5 eggs (whites) 2 teaspoons Dixie baking pow- 
der, 1 teaspoon of essence. Cream butter, stir in the sugar 
then J of the water, then a tablespoon of the flour, alterna- 
ting with the water, then -one half of the eggs beaten stiff' 
then your powder, then the rest of eggs. 

Mrs. Rosenbaum. 



74 Cakes. 

Angel Food Cake Filling. 

Grate 1 cocoanut, 1 pound of grated chocolate, take 
the white of 4 eggs, 1 pound of powdered sugar, let it cook 
as in boiled icing. When it begins to rope take half of it 
and mix with the chocolate, the other half mix with cocoa- 
nut, reserving enough of the cocoanut to sprinkle on top of 
the cake. Spread over the first layer of cake the chocolate 
filling, then the next layer the cocoanut filling, and so on 
till it is the desired size, the cocoanut filling to be on top 
of cake. Mrs. Oliver. 

Wine Cakes. 

1 ounce of Fleshmen's yeast dissolved in \ pint water; 
add flour to make thick batter, set it to rise. When it rises 
sufficiently, add the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of but- 
ter, a little nutmeg, a few drops of Dixie lemon extract, 
and flour to make a thick batter, set aside for 30 minutes. 
Grease and flour 12 or 15 small fancy cake moulds, fill 
them J full; let them rise i hour, put in oven and bake 20 
or 25 minutes. For the syrup take 1 pound white sugar, 
1 cup water J of a lemon, a piece of nutmeg or mace, a 
small piece of cinnamon, cook to a string syrup, flavor 
with unfermented wine. When cakes are baked soak thor- 
oughly in syrup, set in a seive to drain. 

The Manhattan. 

Hickory Nut Cake. 

Cake same as for Marshmallow Filling, 1 cup of sour 
cream, 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of hickory nut meat, chopped 
fine, boil all together, cool and spread between the layers. 



Cakes, 75 

Delicious Cake. 

1 cup of sug-ar, 2 eg-g-s, >2 cupful of butter, l / 2 cupful 
of milk, and H cupfuls of flour, unsifted; cream the butter 
and sug-ar tog-ether, beat the eg-gs lig-ht, and mix well, 
then add % teaspoonful of Dixie baking- powder, and bake 
in a moderate oven. This makes a delicious layer cake. 



Oake Featherweight. 

2 tablespoons butter, 6 eg-g-s (reserve 2 whites for 
icing-) 2 cups sug-ar. 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Dixie bak- 
ing- powder, £ cup milk, \ pound chocolate, vanilla ex- 
tract to taste, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon. Bake in jelly tins 
with anything- between layers. 

Miss Cocker. 

Lip Kucke (German Fruit Cake;. 

6 eg-g-s, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup black molasses, y 2 
pound grated chocolate, 1 cup pecans (chopped), h, pound 
citron, allspice and cinnamon to suit taste, 3 cups flour, 1 
teaspoonful Dixie baking- powder. Bake in a moderate 
oven. Slice and ice. Miss Cocker. 

Eggless Cake. 

1 cup of sug-ar, 1 cup of sour milk, 1 cup of chopped 
raisins, J cup of butter, 2 cups of flour, 1 teaspoon of Dixie 
baking- powder, \ of a teaspoon of each of the spices; cinna- 
mon, cloves and nutmeg-. 

Mrs. D. Rosenbaum. 



76 



Creams and Custards. 



m Creams and Custards. * 

;c®)) (c®)] 




"But please your honor, quoth the Peasant, 
This same dessert is very pleasant." 

— Pope. 



Floating Island. 

Put one pint of milk into a double boiler. Separate 3 
eggs, beat the whites to a stiff froth, drop them by spoon- 
fuls over the top of the milk, allow them to remain for just 
a moment, then lift carefully. Beat the yolks of the eggs 
with two tablespoons of sugar; add them to the hot milk, 
cook till the mixture slightly thickens. Be very careful 
that it does not curdle; take from the fire, add a teaspoon of 
vanilla and turn into the dish in which it is to be served. 
Heap the whites of the eggs over the top and serve cold. 

Mrs. Peirce. 

Orange or Pineapple Ambrosia. 

Have the orange or pineapple broken up into tiny 
pieces. Beat to a stiff froth the whites of 2 eggs with 
sugar. Place in a glass bowl a layer of the fruit, sprinkle 
over it a little sugar, then spread on a little of the beaten 
egg, over that sprinkle grated cocoanut, then another layer 
of fruit, and so on till the dish is full. 

Mrs. Minnie Wilkinson. 



Creams and Custards. 77 



Pineapple Sponge. 



1 small fresh pineapple, or a can of the fruit. Must be 
chopped up and put with its juice in a sauce pan with a 
small cupful of sugar and a cupful of water. If canned 
pineapple is used add less sugar. Simmer 10 minutes, £ a 
package of g-elatine should be soaked in J a cupful of water 
for two hours. When ready add the gelatine, take from 
the fire at once, and strain into a tin basin. Set the basin 
in a pan of ice water or in the refrigerator, and when the 
mixture beg-ins to thicken, stir in the whites of 4 eg-gs, 
beaten to a stiff froth. Pour into a mould and set away to 
harden. Serve with cream. 

Mrs. F. A. Dicks. 



PEACH FLOAT. 

• 1 pint canned peaches, cook ten minutes, the whites of 
three eg-g-s well beaten, add a tablespoonful at a time until 
thoroug-bly mixed, then beat in sug-ar to taste. A very 
nice dessert. Mrs. F. A. Lyons. 



Charlotte Rnsse. 

1 quart of thick cream, l / 2 pint of milk, 1 ounce of gel- 
atine, yolks of 5 egg-s, whites of 7 eg-gs, 12 ounces of 
sugar. Dissolve the g-elatine in the boiling- milk; take it 
off the fire and stir in the yolks of eg-gs, then the sugar 
and Dixie vanilla flavoring. When the custard is cool, 
before it cong-eals, stir in the cream, whipped to a froth, 
and then the beaten whites of the eggs. 



78 ( 'reams and Custards. 

Tapioca Cream. 

Take two tablespoons of tapioca soaked over night, or 

say three hours, in water enough to cover it. Boil this 

with one quart of new milk in a double boiler. Add one 

cup of sugar and a little salt. Beat the yolks of 3 eggs 

thoroughly, and stir them into the milk when it has boiled 

ten minutes. Remove from the fire and stir rapidly for 5 

minutes. Flavor with one teaspoonful of Dixie Vanilla, 

pour into a baking dish, beat the whites of the eggs to a 

stiff froth, pour over the top. Sift sugar over this and 

brown. Serve cold with cream. 

Mrs. F. A. Dicks 

Cocoanut Charlotte Russe. 

Make a sponge cake in a deep round pan, cut out the 
centre leaving about an inch of crust. Fill with cocoanut 
custard, cover the top with whipped cream, put in a cold 
place till needed. 

Cocoanut Custard . 

6 eggs, white of 5, 1 pint of milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup 
cocoanut. 1 teaspoon cornstarch, 1 teaspoon Dixie Vanilla 
flavoring, small cup of cream whipped light with the white 
ol 1 egg. Mrs. Annie Flake. 

Ambrosia. 

Place in a glass bowl alternate layers of sliced oranges 
and grated cocoanut, sprinkling sugar on each layer of 
orange. Having top layer cocoanut. 

Mrs. Oliver. 



Orecmis and Citstarcfo. 79 

Strawberry Float. 

1 pint of strawberries, 2 eggs, 2 cups of pulverized 
sugar, 1 pint of milk, vanilla flavoring. Crush the berries. 
Separate the whites of the eggs from the yolks, beat the 
former to a stiff dry froth, and add the sugar. „ Put in 
crushed berries gradually, beating- all the while until the 
whole is a stiff pile of rosy cream, place in glass dish and 
set on ice. Beat the yolks of the eggs in half a cupful of 
the milk, place remainder of milk on the stove in pan set 
in another containing- boiling- water. When the milk is hot 
add sugar, eg-gs and vanilla to taste, and set on ice to cool. 
This sauce is to be poured in serving- about the frothy 

bernes ' Mrs. J. W. Wilkinson. 



Lemon Cream. 

Yolks of 4 eg-gs, 4 tablespoons granulated sugar, juice 
and grated rind of 1 lemon, 2 tablespoons boiling water. 
Let simmer till it thickens. When cold, just before serv- 
ing-, add the whites beaten with 2 tablespoons of sugar, 

mixing thoroughly. 

Miss May Williams. 



80 Sherbet and Ice Cream. 

i Sherbet and lee Gream. 



?€€^€«^€^€€€€€€«€€€€$€€«€€€!€«€«€€^€ 



Freeze ice cream in a warm place, the cream freezes 
more rapidly when the ice melts quick. 

Vanilla Ice Cream. 

Put one quart of milk on to boil in double boiler. Beat 
tog-ether the yolks of 6 eggs, 6 tablespoons of sugar, stir 
into boiling milk, cook about a minute, stirring constantly. 
Strain it, allow to cool, add 1 tablespoon of Dixie Vanilla 
and the beaten whites of eggs and freeze. 

Mrs. Briggs. 

Lemon Ice Cream. 

6 lemons, 3 quarts milk, \\ pints sugar. Pour milk 
over the lemon peels and let it stand 1 hour, strain and 
sweeten, and when nearly frozen, stir in the juice of the 
lemons. This makes one gallon. 

Miss Mary Werlein. 

Bravarian Ice Cream. 

Sweeten 1 pint of cream to taste, flavor with vanilla or 
lemon. Churn the cream to a froth; skim the froth as it 
rises, and put in a glass dish. Dissolve U tablespoons of 
gelatine in warm water, pour into the froth and stir for 15 
minutes. Pack or set in ice, and it will be ready for use 
in a few hours. Mrs. S. S. Keener. 



Sherbet and Ice Ci 'earn. 



81 



Caramel Ice Cream. 

Melt \\ pounds of brown sugar in the frying* pan until 
liquid, stirring- all the time. Do not let it scorch or get too 
dark. Pour the caramel into a pint of boiling milk by de- 
grees, mixing well. When cold strain into three quarts of 
cream or milk and freeze. I pint of the cream may be whip- 
ped and added as directed. Mrs. D. Rosenbaum. 

Lemon Sherbet. 

Two-thirds can of condensed milk, 3 lemons, juice and 
grated rind, sugar to taste. White of 2 eggs, beat and put 
in when nearly frozen. This is for \ gallon, add water 
enough to nearly fill the can. Mrs. F. R. H. 




''Remember the Maine" 



But when in need of ART GLASS, 
STAINED GLASS, BEVELED 
PLATE GLASS, or when you want 
your spotted Mirrors Resilvered, then 



don't forget the 



La. Glass and Mirror Works, Ltd. 

:509-319 LAFAYETTE! ST., 

Telephone 1082. NEW ORLEANS, LA. 



82 Sherbet and Ice Cream. 

Philadelphia Ice Cream. 

2 cans condensed milk, 4 cans cows milk, 2 cans sweet 

cream; whites of 2 eggs, whipped to a stiff froth. Flavor 

to taste with vanilla or lemon; add whites just before 

freezing-. 

Mrs. S. S. Keener. 

Peach Ice Cream. 

1 pint cream, 1 pint milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 quart peach 
pulp. Rub the peaches through a sieve to produce a pu]p, 
add a small quantity of the sugar and set aside. Place the 
cream and milk over the fire to allow them to come exactly 
to the boiling point, remove and stir in the remainder of 
the sugar and set aside to cool, then add the peach pulp 
and freeze. Mrs. G. M. Quarles. 

Cream Cheese Ice Cream. 

5 cream cheese, sweeten and flavor to taste; add 1 quart 

of sweet milk and freeze. 

Mrs. Annie Flake. 

Strawberry Cream Cheese Ice Cream. 

3 cream .cheese, separate the cream from the cheese, 
mash cheese to a paste, add one can of condensed milk, 
and sugar to taste, add the cream; then \\ pint of sweet 
milk, 1 glass ice cold water, Dixie Vanilla Flavoring, the 
beaten whites of 2 eggs, and lastly the mashed and sweet- 
ened strawberries. Beat all together well and freeze. This 
makes f gal, delicious cream. Mrs. E- P. Lowe. 



Sherbet and Ice Cream. 83 

Chocolate Cream. 

12 eggs, 3 cups sugar, h gallon milk, £ cup chocolate 
or cocoa, vanilla extract. Beat all the eggs, except the 
whites of 3 with the sugar and chocolate; add the milk and 
then boil to a thin custard. When it it beg'ins to freeze, 
add the whites of the eggs. 

Mrs. Annie Flake. 

Coffee Frozen. 

• Prepare the coffee as for the table; add cream and 
sugar, making it sweeter than for drinking. Freeze and 
serve in after dinner coffee cups. Mrs. Oliver. 

Pineapple Snow. 

1 gallon rich milk, 1 can pineapple, 1 pound of sugar; 
beat all together and freeze. 

Mrs. H. W. Knickerbocker. 

Frozen Cream Cheese. 

One quart of sweet milk to 6 cream cheeses, with the 
cream, £ teaspoon of soda. Sweeten to taste, flavor with 
Dixie Vanilla Extract. Mrs. Holmes. 

Bisque. 

\ g-allon cream whipped, yolks of 9 eggs, 3 pounds of 
granulated sugar. Mix the eggs with i gallon of milk 
which has been boiled with vanilla bean in it, add the 
sugar to the whipped cream, then mix all ingredients to- 
gether, beating well. Then freeze. This makes about 
24 bisques. Miss Wasson. 



84 Candies. 



■m^^CandieSo €##« 



Pecan Candy. 



Take two large cups of granulated sugar, put into a 
dry pot and stir constantly till every bit of sugar is dis- 
solved. Soon as it becomes a syrup pour it over your pre- 
pared nuts. In a few minutes it will be cold enough to cut 
into small pieces. P. S. M. 

Pecan Candy. 

1 cup sugar, white of one egg, 1 cup pecans, (picked 
well) stir and mix well without beating, place thin layer 
in pie pan, bake light brown in moderately hot oven. 

Mrs. J. H. Magruder. 

Caramel Candy. 

One cake Baker's chocolate (not sweet, J lb.) 3 poifnds 
brown sugar, % pound butter. 1 tea cup milk. Mix milk 
and sugar and boil well together, then add the butter, stir- 
ing until melted, then add the grated chocolate and boil 
hard until done. Test by dropping on a plate and cooling 
rapidly. . Mrs. Christian Keener. 

Cocoanut Pralines. 

One cup of peeled and grated cocoanut, two cups of 
sugar, i cup of water. Put sugar and water on to boil, 
cook it until when dropped in cold water it is brittle, add 
a piece of butter size of a walnut, put in the grated cocoa- 
nut, and cook just a few minutes, then drop on buttered 
plates or tins. For the white use white sugar, for the 
brown pralines, the best brown sugar, and to color them 
pink, use fruit coloring. Miss Clara Biixington 



Pickles and Preserves. 

pickles and Nsertfss. x 



In making- pickles the vinegar should be very strong 
and should only be brought to the boiling point and im- 
mediately poured on pickles. Cook in porcelain or granite 
kettle. Never put up pickles in anything that has held 
grease of any kind. The nicest way to put up pickles is 
bottling; sealing while hot and keeping in a cool dark 
place. The brine for pickles should be strong enough to 
bear an egg; make it in the proportion of a heaping pint 
of coarse salt to a gallon of water. 

Sweet Pickles. 

■J peck green tomatoes, sliced; 9 cucumbers, 1 head cab- 
bage, 1 dozen seed onions, 3 pods of green pepper. Place 
in a jar alternately with salt and let stand over night. 
1 ounce each of white and black mustard seed, | ounce 
turmeric, 1 ounce celery seed, \ box mustard, 1 pound sugar. 
Mix together with cider vinegar. Let it come to a boil, 

then put in a jar and seal. 

Mrs. W. W. Sutcliffe. 

Sweet Pickle Peaches. 

1 quart good vinegar, 2 cups of sugar, 1 teaspoon of 
cinnamon. Stick 2 or 3 whole cloves in peaches. After 
peeling, put fruit in with sugar and vinegar; boil till fruit 
is very tender, and juice thickened. 

Mrs. Ella Everett, Shubuta, Miss. 



86 Pickles and Preserves. 

Chow-Chow. 

1 peck tomatoes, 5 onions, 3 heads cabbage, 1 dozen 
green peppers. Chop all separately, then mix well, put in 
salt and let drain all night. Put in a kettle one pound of 
brown sugar, £ teaspoon grated horseradish, 1 teaspoon 
ground black pepper, 1 teaspoon ground mustard, 1 table- 
spoon of celery seed and 1 tablespoon of white mustard 
seed. Cover with a pint of vinegar, boil and pour over 
chopped mixture. Mrs. W. W. Sutcliffe. 

Chow-Chow. 

1 dozen onions, 1 peck green tomatoes, 4 heads of cab- 
bage, 1 dozen cucumbers, (in brine 3 days), 3 oz. white mus- 
tard seed, 1 oz. celery seed, 4 tablespoons whole pepper, 1 
oz. turmeric, small box of mustard, 2J lbs. brown sugar. 
Chop onions, cabbage and tomatoes day before and sprinkle 
with salt in proportion, \ pt. to a peck; next day drain out 
brine. Tablespoon pulverized alum. Put all in kettle cover 
with weak vinegar, 3 tablespoons of turmeric let it come to 
a boil then drain off. Then cover with strong vinegar 
and add all the spice and sugar, simmer slowly \ hour and 
bottle. Mrs. F. A. Lyons. 

Spiced Grapes. 

Small dark grapes are excellent for this. 5 pounds 
grapes, 4 pounds sugar, 1 quart vinegar, 1 tablespoon 
cinnamon, 1 tablespoon cloves. Cook for sometime, skim- 
ming off the seeds as they rise to top, in cooking. Cook 
down to a sauce. To eat with vegetables. 

Mrs. Ella Everett, Shubuta, Miss. 



Pickles and Preserves. 87 

Green Tomato Sweet Pickles. 

Slice 1 gallon green tomatoes and salt well. Let stand 
until morning-, drain and pour on fresh water, let stand 2 
or 3 hours. Slice 12 large onions; put in kettle a layer of 
tomatoes and a layer of onions, cover with best vinegar and 
boil until tender; then add 1 tablespoon of mace, 1 table- 
spoon of spice, 1 tablespoon of nutmeg, 1 tablespoon black 
pepper, 1 tablespoon mustard, 1 tablespoon cloves, 1 pound 
brown sugar 1 oz. white mustard seed. 

Mrs. S. S. Keener. 

Green Tomato Sauce, or Soy» 

2 gallons green tomatoes without peeling, sliced; 12 
large onions, 2 quarts best vinegar, 1 quart sugar, 2 table- 
spoons salt, 2 tablespoons ground mustard, 1 tablespoon 
black pepper, 1 tablespoon allspice, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 
ground; 1 tablespoon cloves. Mix all together, stew until 
tender, stir often to prevent scorching; put in fruit jars. 

A fine soy for all kinds of fish and meat. 

Mrs. Ella Everett. 

Peach Sweet Pickles. 

Make a syrup of 1 quart of vinegar, 5 pounds of sugar, 

1 tablespoonful each of cloves, allspice and stick cinnamon. 

Tie the spice in a thin cloth, drop into the syrup, let come 

to a good boil. If the fruit is peaches, peel them and leave 

stones in; if pears, peel and core. Take 8 pounds of the 
fruit and add to syrup (after the fruit has been through 
the lime water preparation). Let the fruit boil until it is 
transparent and begins to sink in the syrup, when it is 
ready for the jars. Mrs. J. B. Walker, 

Mississippi City. 



88 Pickles and Preserves. 

Preparation for Preserving Ripe Fruit. 

Have 1 gallon of cold water in an earthern bowl. Put 
in the water 1 large teacup of unslacked lime, stir well, 
then put in as much fruit as water will cover. Let stand 
about 6 minutes, then rinse in clear water (do not let it 
remain in the water); continue putting- your fruit in lime 
water and then in clear, until the kettleful is prepared. 
Let the fruit remain in lime water two minutes longer, 
every bowl full as the acid weakens the lime. This lime 
water will prepare a larg-e kettle of fruit. The lime water 
toug-hens the fruit so it can be boiled, also assists in pre- 
venting- the preserves from fermenting-. 

Mrs. J. B. Walker. 

Spiced Currants. 

Wash thoroughly 1 pound of currants. Cover with cold 
water and vineg-ar equal parts, 1 teaspoon of cloves, cina- 
mon or any spice desired. Tie spice in muslin cloth; boil 
until currants are soft, add 1 pound of sug-ar, boil half hour. 
Very appetizing- with cold meats. 

Mrs. A. J. Crebbin. 

Spiced Grapes. 

Eig-ht pounds of grapes, 5 pounds clarified sug-ar, \y 2 
pints vineg-ar, cloves, alspice, ground cinamon to taste. 
Pop the grapes out of the skins, and boil till you can rub 
throug-h a collander to remove seed. Then put back on 
fire, with the skins, vineg-ar, sugar and spices, boil two 
hours. Miss May Williams. 



Pickles and Preserves. 89 

Unfermented Grape Wine. 

Wash and pick grapes, put in porcelain kettle, let 
fruit heat until skins burst. Pour into cheese cloth bags 
and drip, then put juice back on stove; adding not quite J 
pint white sug-ar to 1 pint juice; boil rapidly 4 or 5 minutes; 
bottle and cork tig-htly, seal with wax or put into fruit 
jars. 

Mrs. Ella Everett, Shubuta, Miss. 



For Preserving Figs and Pears. 

To 8 pounds of sug-ar add the strained juice of 2 lem- 
ons, and a table spoonful of stick cinnamon. Cut the rinds 
of the lemons, and put in the kettle with the other things; 
make the syrup with as little water as possible. When the 
syrup boils, put in 12 pounds of either fig-s or pears which 
have been through the lime process. Let boil until the 
fruit looks clear, and begins to sink, when it can be put in 
the jars. Mrs. J. B. Walker. 

Sour Orange Peeling Preserves. 

Grate the yellow off of the orang-e, then peel it in four 
pieces, soak them two days in water (water must be chang-- 
ed every day to draw the bitter off); third day scald and 
drain well, then weig-h them; use one pound of sug-ar to 1 
pound of peeling, put the sug-ar in just enough water to 
cover it well, boil until a g-ood syrup is obtained, then put 
in the peeling-s and cook until the syrup is quite thick. 

Mrs. M. C D. Lehde. 



90 Miscellaneous 

Isce 



Roast Turkey with Oyster Dressing. 

After cleaning and thoroughly washing- the turkey, 
pour boiling- water all over it to plump it or make it tender. 
Rub it well with salt, then prepare dressing-, as follows: 
about one loaf of stale bread, after it has soaked in hot 
water until soft, squeeze it dry. Chop one iarg-e onion, a 
small portion of celery, parsley and thyme. Half pound of 
sausag-e meat, add salt and pepper to season. Mix .all to- 
g-ether well. Put in a frying- pan of hot lard and fry until 
brown, stirring- constantly to prevent burning-. When the 
dressing- is done, stir in two or three dozen oysters chopped 
tolerably fine. Stuff the turkey with it and put what is 
left in the pan. Sift a little flour over the turkey to brown 
it, also one tablespoon lard. Fill the pan nearly full of 
hot water and baste the turkey with it, turning- it occasion- 
ly until thoroug-hly cooked and brown. 

Mrs. J. W. Billington. 

Boiled Flour. 

Tie tig-htly in a close linen cloth one pound of flour. 
After tying-, moisten with water and dredge well with flour 
'till a coating is formed to prevent the water entering the 
flour. Boil four or five hours and let the flour remain tied 
in the cloth until it is cold. It will be a hard, solid lump 
and is a substitute for arrow-root. Prepare by grating. 
Excellent in diarrhea or other bowel affections. 

Diet for Infants. 

Dissolve a piece of gelatine an inch square in half a 
gill of warm water; when dissolved, add a gill of milk; put 
on the fire, and when boiling add half a teaspoonful of 
arrow-root or boiled flour-ball When sufficiently boiled, 
take off the fire and stir in two tablespoonsful of sweet 
cream. This may be given to very young infants; and as 
they grow older the food may be made stronger by using 
more milk or cream. Mrs. Florence E. Russ 



Miscellaneous. 91 



Cream Puffs. 

One cup boiling- water, £ cup butter, put these on the 
stove, when boiling- add one cup of flour, stir five minutes; 
put this off until nearly cold, then stir in one egg at a time 
until you g-et in five egg's. Soda size of a pea dissolved in 
teaspoonful cold water and put into the mixture. Have 
your tins hot. Bake twenty-five minutes and do not re- 
move from tins until cold. Have oven very hot. Filling 
— One pint milk, one cup sugar, £ cup flour, two eg-gs, beat 
yolks and flour together. Boil the milk and stir in mix- 
ture slowly, when it thickens take it off and let cool before 
putting- in cakes. Flavor with Dixie vanilla extract. 

Miss Clara Billington. 



Cake Icing. 

To the white of 1 eg-g - , add 9 heaped teaspoons of pow- 
dered sugar, 1 even teaspoon of cornstarch, and J teaspoon 
of cream of tartar. Put all in tog-ether, and beat with a 
fork till too stiff to flow. The whites of 2 eg-gs and its ac- 
companying ingredients will ice a g-ood sized cake. Flavor 
to taste. If put on a hot cake, will not crumble off readilv. 

' Mrs. S. S. Bothick. 



The Way to Make Good Coffee and Tea. 

For making coffee or tea, never boil the water more 
than three or four minutes as most of its natural properties 
escape by evaporation, leaving very insipid liquid when 
boiled very long, which spoils the coffee or tea. Never use 
the water left in the tea-kettle over night, but have fresh 
boiled water always if you want good coffee or tea. 

For tea, have an earthen or china pot, scald it out well 
and set on the stove, where it will dry and keep hot, when 
dry put in two teaspoonfuls of tea, let heat a minute or 
two and ten minutes before serving, pour in a pint of 
fresh boiling water. 



92 Miscellaneous. 

Stuffed Peppers. 

Select £ dozed large green peppers, cut off the small 
ends and take out the seeds; then scald the peppers and 
drain them. Take any left-over meat, (veal preferred) 
and chop very fine, then chop up about two small toma- 
toes and half of a green pepper; \ cup cold rice, season 
with salt and a little pepper; mix well and stuff the pep- 
pers. Set them in a pan half filled with water and a table- 
spoonfull of butter and a sprig of parsley; put in oven and 
bake until peppers are tender and brown, basting frequent- 
ly. Miss L. Klocke. 

Stuffed Eggs. 

Boil 8 eggs hard, when cold peal and cut in half. Take 
out the yolks very carefully so as not to break the whites. 
Mash the yolks and mix with two teaspoons melted butter, 
one teaspoon mustard, three or four pieces pickled cucum- 
bers chopped fine, salt and pepper to taste. Finely chopp- 
ed ham, or celery seeds may be added. 

C. Billington. 

Onion Soup. 

Fry three medium sized onions in butter, a light brown 
color. Pour one pint rich, sweet milk into a granite boiler 
and place upon the stove; when it comes to a boil pour in 
the onions and season with butter, pepper and salt. Serve 
with toast. Mrs. C. B. Sholaks. 



WALTER A^I^I^E^ISL, 

Dealer in Foreign and Domestic 

Dry Goods. Hosiery, Notions, 

Gents' Furnishing Goods, Carpets, 
Mattings and Window Shades.... 

1618 and 1620 DRYADES STREET, 

Bet. Terpsichore and Euterpe, NEW ORLEANS, LA. 



Household Wniis. 



93 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 



Furniture Polish. 

1 pint spirits of turpentine, \ pint ot sweet oil, 3 table- 
spoonsful of vinegar, 2 teaspoonsful flour. Excellent. 

To Stiffen Collars. 

A little gumarabic and common soda added to starch, 
gives extreme stiffness and gloss to shirt-bosoms and 
collars. 

Home Made Yeast Powder. 

1 pound of cream of tartar, \ pound of soda, 1 pint of 
flour. Sift seven or eight times. Cover closely. Excellent. 

Fat For Frying. 

5 pounds pure cottonseed oil, 2 pounds beef suet. Cut 
the beef into small pieces, put into granite pot on the back 
of stove. Soon as the fat melts pour it off. Place cotton- 
seed oil in pot, then the beef suet. Cook together. When 
it has thoroughly boiled or reached 355° Fahrenheit, strain 
and put away. 

To Clean Wall Paper. 

. To 1 pint of boiling water, add a full quart of flour 
and 2 tablespoonsful of ammonia, make into a stiff dough 
and rub down paper once. 



94 Things Worth Knowing 



Dip iron rust spots in tartaric acid and hang- in the sun. 

A sponge can be cleansed by soaking- it a few hours in 
buttermilk. 

Put a few apples into the box with your cake and they 
will keep it moist. 

Hot water used in a sponge cake makes it white. Cold 
water produces a yellow cake. 

A little borax or soda in the dish water makes the 
tinware brighter and is better than soap. 

The juice of half a lemon in a tea cup of strong- black 
coffee without sug-ar will often cure a sick headache. 

Leather sachels may be cleaned with a sponge dipped 
in warm water in which a little oxalic acid has been 
dissolved. 

Make a heavy line of tar about the paper on which the 
sugar bowl stands, if you are troubled with ants and they 
will never cross the tar line. 

In making cake if you have the yolks left and do not 
care to use them right away, cover them with fresh water 
and they will keep for three days. 

Turpentine will drive away ants and roaches if sprink- 
led about shelves and closets. A teaspoonful in a pail of 
warm water cleans paint excellently. A little in the boiler 
on washing day whitens the clothes. 

Nothing- has proved to be so great a preservative of 
leather as castor oil, at the same time keeping the leather 
silky and supple. That is because the oil does not soak 
into the leather, nor permit the water to do so, and pre- 
serves the natural condition and life of the leather. As a 
preservative next in value is castor oil and neatfoot, half 
and half mixed. 



Weights and Measures. $ 



The following- table of weights and measures will be 
useful, and they have the merit of being correct: 

Butter the size of an egg — 2 ounces. 

Butter the size of a walnut — 1 ounce. 

One solid pint of chopped meat — 1 pound. 

Kig"ht or ten eggs — 1 pound. 

One coffee cupful of butter, pressed down — h pound. 

Four teaspoonsful— 1 tablespoonsful liquid. 

One tablespoonful of soft butter, well rounded — 1 
ounce- 
Four tablespoonsful, or half a g-ill — 1 wine glass. 
Two coffee cupfuls — 1 pint. 
Two pints — 1 quart. 
Four quarts — 1 g-allon. 
Two tablespoonfuls liquid — 1 ounce. 
One tablespoonful of salt — 1 ounce. 
Sixteen ounces — 1 pound, or a pint of liquid. 
One rounded tablespoonful of flour — M ounce. 
Three cups of corn meal — 1 pound. 
Four coffee cupfuls of sifted flour— 1 pound. 
One quart of unsifted flour — 1 pound. 
One pint of granulated sug-ar— 1 pound. 
Two coffee cupfuls of powdered sugar — 1 pound. 
One pint of brown sugar— thirteen ounces. 
Two and a half cups of powdered sugar — 1 pound. 



INDEX. PAGE 

Biscuit 7 

Bisque 83 

Breads 5 

Breakfast Cakes 11 

Cakes 64-75 

Candies 84 

Chili-con-carni 40 

Cookies 15-17 

Corn Bread 9 

Crabs 27-32 

Creams and Custards 76-79 

Daube 38-39 

Doug-hnuts 15 

Eggs ». 54 

Fish 33-35 

Fowls 41-42 

Ginger Bread 15-17 

Grape Wine, (unfermented) 89 

Grapes, Spiced 88 

Hash 39 

Household Hints 93 

Ice Cream 80-82 

Maccaroni 46-48 

Measures 95 

Meats 36-40 

Miscellaneous 90-92 

Muffins 13 

Oysters 27-32 

Pickles 85-87 

Pies and Pastry 60 63 

Preserves " 87-89 

Puddings and Sauces 55-59 

Rice 43-47 

Rolls 13 

Salads 50-53 

Sauces, Fish " 35 

Sherbets 81 

Soups 19-26 

Spag-hetti 47 

Turkish Bath 16 

Things Worth Knowing 91 

Vegetables 43-49 

Weights ,..,,, 95 



Mi 



& 



I 1 1 I tf 



M 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



■ 




014 480 083 7 £ 



M'Ewlf/lsiwf 





w m 



■j I 






■ *»w '««- %«•" d K 



1 0??'-94: 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

~^rt^ 

t — ^mm¥ ^^ 



Shelf.../. 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



r\5U, FLE5M AND rOWL 



A COOK BOOK 



Trainable Recipes, all of which have been thoroughly- 
and successfully tested 



COMl'ILED BY 



LADIES OF' state' STREET PARISH 



'SVfO Q^ 



PORTLAND 

TRANSCEU'T I'RINTINC HOUSE, 44 EXCHANGE STREBU 
1894 



\- 



Af: 



g^/' 






" The Lord sends meat; the Devil cooks," 

Of old a proverb was, 
What slander on the gentle sex ! 
What charge without a cause ! 

The Woman Question is, no doubt, 
"Where doth my mission lie ? 

Shall all our aspirations tend 
To pudding, cake and pie ?" 

Could man be made to comprehend 

The aggravation sore, 
Of frosting, roasting, broiling — all 

The varied kitchen lore — 

' Tvvould all come right then, bye and bye. 

Disproved all slanders rife ; 
We'd get with jubilation. 

Our Desserts in this life. 



COPYKIGHT 1891 
BY TRANSCRIPT PRINTING HOUSE 



BREAD. 



"The Staff of Life." 



Bannock. One pint Indian meal scalded with one 
quart milk, six or eight eggs, a little sugar and salt. 
Stir in eggs when cool, anc^bake in hot oven. 

Batter. Two eggs, the whites beaten separately, a 
small cup of flour, the same of milk; mix yolks of 
eggs, flour and milk into a smooth batter; stir in a tea- 
spoon of butter melted, and a little salt, and one 
teaspoon of baking powder; the last thing put in 
the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth; beat gently 
after the whites are in. Bake well in a buttered tin in 
a very hot oven. 

Blueberry Cake. i. One quart flour, half a cup 
butter, one and a half cups white sugar, one cup sweet 
milk, two teaspoons cream tartar, one teaspoon soda, 
two eggs, blueberries. 

2. One cup milk, three cups flour, one egg, salt, two 
tablespoons sugar, one of butter, two teaspoons cream 
tartar, one of soda, one cup blueberries. 

Breakfast Cake. Sift together two cups flour, two 
tablespoons Indian meal, two tablespoons sugar and 
four even teaspoons baking powder; add one cup sweet 
milk and two well beaten eggs, a pinch of salt. Bake 
in laree or small tins. 



BREAD. 



Breakfast Puffs. One pint milk, two eggs, a little 
salt, teaspoon soda, two of cream tartar, butter size 
of a walnut, melted; put all into the milk, then stir 
thoroughly in a pint and a half of flour." Bake in cups. 

Brown Bread, i, Togus. Three cups sweet milk, one 
cup sour milk, three cups Indian meal, one cup flour, 
one cup molasses, one teaspoon salt, one of soda dis- 
solved in a little warm water. 

2. Steamed. Three cups Indian meal, two cups 
rye meal, one cup flour, four tablespoons molasses, 
two tablespoons yeast, one teaspoon salt. Stir it up 
at night with warm water. In the morning add scant 
teaspoon saleratus. Steam all the forenoon. 

3. One heaping coffee cup rye meal and the 
same of Indian meal; mix together one-half teaspoon 
salt, molasses enough to make a very stiff dough, 
into this beat an egg; two scant coffee cups sour 
milk, two teaspoons soda. If sweet milk is handier 
use three teaspoons baking powder. Steam three 
hours and bake one hour. 

4. Three cups bread crumbs, rolled fine, three cups 
corn meal, three cups sour milk, three -fourths cup mo- 
lasses, four teaspoons soda. Roil molasses and add 
soda; steam all day as usual. 

Buckwheat Cakes. Two cups buckwheat, one of 
white flour, one-half cup yeast. In the morning add 
two teaspoons sugar, and one teaspoon soda. 

Buns. I. Three cups milk, one cup yeast, two 
cups sugar, flour enough to make a stiff batter; 
rise over night, then add cup butter, cup sugar, nut- 
meg, teaspoon soda, more flour to make as stiff as 
bread; after a second rising cut and rise before bak- 
ing. Currants if you choose. 



BREAD. 5 

2. Two quarts dough, one cup sugar, one pint milk 
(lukewarm), one cup yeast, one cup currants, put all 
to rise in the afternoon, add flour enough to thicken 
before bed time. In the morning put in pans to rise 
before baking. 

3. Cinnamon. Boil one pint milk and cool till 
lukewarm, one cup sugar, one cup yeast, tablespoon 
butter, one tablespoon lard, flour enough to make a 
stiff dough so that none need to be added in the morn- 
ing. Let rise over night; when light roll out about an 
inch thick and spread well with butter; sprinkle over 
brown sugar and cinnamon; then roll it up and cut off 
about an inch thick; let rise in pans till very light, and 
bake in good oven; when done rub over with butter. 

California Biscuit. One-half cup sugar, two cups 
milk, two eggs, piece of butter size of an egg, one 
quart flour, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream 
tartar. 

Cheese Sandwiches. One hard-boiled egg, one-fourth 
pound common cheese grated, one-half teaspoon salt, 
one-half teaspoon pepper, one-half teaspoon mustard, 
one-half teaspoon sugar, one tablespoon melted butter, 
one tablespoon vinegar; take the yolk of the egg, put 
it in a small bowl and crumble it down, put into it the 
butter, and mix it smooth with a spoon, then add the 
salt, pepper, sugar, mustard and the cheese, mix-ing 
each well; then put in the tablespoon of vinegar which 
will make it the proper thickness; spread between thin 
bread and butter or crackers. 

Corn Cake. i. One pint sour milk, one pint Indian 
meal, one pint flour, two tablespoons sugar, salt, one 
^gg, a small piece of butter, one teaspoon soda. 

2. One cup meal, one cup flour, one cup sugar. 



6 BREAD. 

butter size of an egg, one cup milk, one-half teaspoon 
soda dissolved in milk, two teaspoons cream tartar 
sifted in with flour. 

3. One cup Indian meal, one cup flour, one-half 
teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar sifted in with 
meal, teaspoon salt, one egg, without beating, one cup 
milk, all beaten very thoroughly together for fifteen 
minutes and bake in round pans twenty minutes. 

Corn Bread or Johnny-Cake. One pint of butter- 
milk or sour milk, one pint corn meal, one egg, one 
teaspoon soda, one teaspoon salt, two teaspoons sugar 
or molasses; dissolve the soda in a little warm water 
and add it the last thing. Bake half an hour in a 
quick oven. 

Bangor Corn Cake. One tablespoon butter, two 
tablespoons sugar, one egg, one cup flour, one-half cup 
corn meal, two-thirds cup milk, one teaspoon cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. 

White Corn Cake. One cup cold boiled rice beaten, 
then add three eggs; scald one quart milk, stir with 
the milk one and a third cups of white corn meal, a 
little salt, then beat all together, have a good one-half 
cup of butter in the dish you bake in. Bake in hot 
oven. 

Egg Pop-Overs. Three cups flour, three cups milk, 
three eggs. Beat eggs twenty minutes, add milk and 
flour. Bake in a quick oven. 

Flannel Cakes. To two ounces of butter add a pint 
of hot milk to melt the butter, a pint of cold milk, five 
eggs, flour enough to make a stif¥ batter, teaspoon 
salt, two tablespoons yeast; set it to rise in a warm 
place about three hours; butter the griddle and pour 
on the batter in small cakes. 



BREAD. 7 

French Toast. Beat two or three eggs and stir into 
a pint of milk with a pinch of salt; take thin slices 
of stale bread and dip into it; as you take out the 
slices set them on the edge a minute to drain off some 
of the milk, then brown on both sides on a buttered 
griddle; lay them in a hot covered dish, and eat with, 
syrup or butter and sugar. 

Fried Biscuits. Take spoonfuls of raised dough 
and fry in hot lard like doughnuts; eat while hot with 
maple syrup. 

Graham Bread. Take equal quantities graham meal 
and flour, add shortening and yeast, mix stiff as flour 
bread and treat in the same way. 

Graham Rolls, i. Two cups of wheat meal, one and 
a half cups flour, salt, three-fourths cup sugar, two and 
one-half cups sour milk, one teaspoon soda. 

2. Two cups graham flour, one cup sweet milk, 
one cup sour milk, one-half cup molasses, one-half 
teaspoon salt, one teaspoon saleratus, one egg. Bake 
in a quick oven in gem pan. 

Huckleberry Biscuit. A piece of raised dough the 
size of an ordinary bowl, two-thirds a cup sugar, one 
large tablespoon each butter and cream, one-half 
teaspoon soda; flour to stiffen like biscuit; put in last 
a pint of berries stirred in carefull)' so as not to break 
them; take out with a spoon, roll them in flour and let 
them rise in a pan before baking in a moderate o\'en. 

Indian Breakfast Cake. Two cups Indian meal, one- 
third cup flour, two and a half cups sour milk, one 
egg, and soda to sweeten the milk. 

Indian Cake. Two cups meal, one cup flour, one cup 
cream, one cup milk, two-thirds cup sugar, three eggs, 
one teaspoon soda, one of salt. 



■O BREAD. 

Indian Drop Cake. Three cups meal, one cup flour, 
one pint sour milk, two eggs, two large spoons butter, 
one cup sugar, soda enough to sweeten the milk. 

Muffins. One cup sweet milk and an iron spoonful 
extra, three cups flour, one egg, two teaspoons cream 
tartar, one of soda, butter size of small egg, tablespoon 
sugar; beat egg, sugar, butter and cream tartar to- 
gether; stir in part of milk while putting in the flour, 
dissolve soda in remainder of the milk and stir in 
after it is well mixed. 

2. One egg, pint of flour, one and a half pints milk, 
teaspoon butter rubbed into the flour, teaspoon cream 
tartar, half teaspoon soda. 

3. English. Two quarts flour, one-third of a \'east 
cake, one teaspoon salt, cold water to moisten; make 
the dough as stiff as for bread and rise o\'er night; 
roll out until one-half inch thick; cut with large biscuit 
cutter; put them on a griddle on the back of the stove 
till they rise; then move forward to cook, turning over 
when done one side; remove from the fire when done; 
cover and allow to stand long enough to be made 
tender by the steam; split open, butter and serve; or 
when cold, split, tcast and butter. 

4. Graham. One cup flour, two cups wheat meal, 
two tablespoons sugar, teaspoon salt, half cup j-east, 
well mixed. Add half teaspoon soda dissolved in a 
little milk; not too stiff, almost thin as a batter. 

5. Graham. One egg, half cup sugar, butter size of 
an egg, one and a half cups sour milk, one cup wheat 
flour, one and a half cups graham flour, half a teaspoon 
soda; bake in hot roll pans. 

6. Indian Meal. One cup meal scalded in one pint 
milk, butter size of an egg, tablespoon sugar, salt, one 
egg, half cup yeast and flour enough for rather a stiff 
batter; bake in a quick oven. 



BREAD. 



7. Raised. One pint sweet milk, half cup yeast, two 
tablespoons sugar, flour enough to make batter a little 
thicker than for fritters; rise over night; add in the 
morning two eggs, and bake in a quick oven. 

8. Raised. One quart flour, half a teacup yeast, two 
well beaten eggs, one and a half pints warm milk, half 
a gill melted butter; let rise, and when light bake in 
rings well buttered. 

9. Rye. One pint sour milk, one pint rye meal, 
half cup molasses, one egg, one teaspoon saleratus, 
cup flour. Bake one-half hour. 

10. White. One cup milk, one and a half cups flour, 
one heaping teaspoon baking powder, whites of two 
eggs, one-fourth cup butter, a little salt; bake in a 
quick oven. 

Pancakes. One egg, one cup milk, one pint flour, 
half teaspoon soda, teaspoon cream tartar, salt; drop 
from teaspoon in hot lard; eat with syrup for breakfast. 

2. One egg, a little nutmeg, two-thirds cup sugar, 
one cup milk, teaspoon soda, two cream tartar, three 
cups flour; drop in hot fat. 

Parker House Rolls. Three-quarters cup yeast, three- 
quarters cup butter, three pints flour, one tablespoon 
sugar, one teaspoon salt; scald the milk and cool it, 
rise all day, cut out at night, and rise until morning; 
bake in a quick oven; fold over the edges, and put a 
bit of butter between the folds. As biscuit, just as nice 
with less butter. 

Potato Biscuit. At 9 a. m., (if wanted for tea) dis- 
solve one-half yeast cake in one cup warm water, add 
one cup mashed potato and one cup flour and a little 
salt; let it rise till noon, then add one-half cup lard, 
one-third cup sugar, two eggs and flour enough to 



10 BREAD. 

knead, but do not knead it; let it rise again till -i 
o'clock; then knead and form into biscuit and let rise; 
brush the tops with milk; bake ten or fifteen minutes. 
Potato Cakes. Half a dozen common sized pota- 
toes, boiled and mashed smooth, a spoonful flour, two 
eggs, salt and pepper; stir until quite soft; fry like 
fritters. 

Potato Rolls. Boil one pint of sliced and peeled 
potatoes, pour off the water, mash fine, add one pint 
and a half of water, then strain; one-half cup sugar, 
tablespoon lard, teacup yeast; rise over night; this 
makes one loaf and a pan of rolls. 

Quaker Biscuit. Scald one cupful Quaker rolled 
oats with one pint boiling water, and let it stand one 
hour; add one-half tablespoon shortening, a scant half 
cup molasses, one-half tablespoon salt, one-half yeast 
cake, dissolved in one-third cup lukewarm water, one 
quart flour; let rise, shape, rise again and bake in hot 
oven twenty minutes. 

Rice Crumpets. Two cups warm milk, one cup cold 
boiled rice, one tablespoon white sugar, two table- 
spoons melted butter, half a cup liquid yeast, flour to 
make a thick batter, salt to taste; beat the mixture 
well and let it rise till very light; just before putting 
into gem pans add a bit of soda dissolved in hot 
water; serve hot; bake about twenty minutes. 

Rusks. Make a sponge of two cups milk, one cup 
yeast, salt, flour enough for stiff batter; set it to rise 
at noon; in the evening mix in a cup of butter, two 
cups sugar, two eggs well beaten; let it stand all night 
to rise; in the morning mould into cakes, put them into 
pans so as not to touch; let them rise again, then bake; 
a little cinnamon may be added if desired. 



BREAD. XI 

Raised Rye Bread. Pour one cup boiling water on 
one cup flour; when free from lumps add one heaping 
cup rye flour, or sifted rye meal, three-fourths cup 
molasses, a little salt, and scant half yeast cake; mix 
with three cups lukewarm water, adding flour to form 
a stiff batter; do this at night. In the morning take 
out with a spoon enough to fill gem pan, (one dozen); 
let them rise about ten or fifteen minutes in the pan 
before baking; to the rest of the dough add a little 
more flour and a bit of butter and make into loaves; 
let it rise a little before baking; bake slowly. 

Raised Rye Biscuit. Three cups white flour, one 
cup rye flour, one-half cup sugar, one teaspoon salt, 
and a pinch of soda all sifted together; rub into this 
one teaspoon shortening, dissolve one-half yeast 
cake, and mix altogether with lukewarm milk and 
water to the consistency olF raised dough; let it rise 
over night; in the morning form into biscuit and let 
rise again. 

Rye Rolls. Two cups rye meal, one cup flour, half 
teaspoon salt, a scant cup molasses, two full cups but- 
ter-milk or sour milk, a heaping teaspoon soda; beat 
in an egg the last thing; bake in a quick oven in gem 
pans. 

Squash Biscuit. One cup sifted squash, one-half cup 
sugar, one cup milk, one-half cup yeast, one-half tea- 
spoon saleratus, butter size of a large egg; flour to roll 
out. 

Squash Fritters. One pint sifted squash, one quart 
milk, three eggs, one teaspoon soda, salt, enough flour 
to make little stiffer batter than for common fritters. 

Squash Gems. One-half cup stewed snd sifted 
squash, one-fourth cup sugar, one cup milk, one egg, 
two cups flour, one heaping teaspoon baking powder. 



12 BREAD. 

Squash Griddle Cakes. One cup sifted squash, one 
cup sweet milk, one egg, flour enough to make them 
the right consistency. 

Steamed Whole Wheat Loaf. One-half cup molas- 
ses, two cups sour milk, one egg, two even teaspoons 
soda, one even teaspoon salt, three cups (a little scant) 
of whole wheat flour; steam three or four hours. It 
may be made with sifted graham meal; it resembles 
brown bread, but is more easily digested. 

Tea Rolls. Boil one cup milk, let it get cold, take 
one quart flour and rub in one-half tablespoon lard, 
make a hole in the middle of the flour and pour in the 
milk, and one-quarter cup )'east, and the same amount 
of sugar; let this stand over night, in the morning 
knead it again and form into rolls or biscuits, let it rise 
until tea time and bake in a moderately heated o\en. 

Waffles. I. One quart flour, little salt, large tea- 
spoon butter, two eggs, half cup yeast; let it rise all 
day. 

2. Three pints milk, half cup boiled rice, while hot 
put in a piece butter size of an egg, half cup yeast, 
salt, flour to make a stiff batter; beat the egg very 
light and add the last thing; raise over night or during 
the da}'. 

3. German. Half pound butter stirred to a cream, 
yolks of five eggs, mixed with half pound of flour, 
half pint of milk stirred in gradually and lastly the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth and beaten 
into the butter. 

Wheat Gems. Stir slowly into cold water unbolted 
wheat flour enough to make it the consistency of hasty 
pudding, a little salt, and bake as muffins in a very 
quick oven. 



BREAD. 13 

Yeast. I. splendid. Boil eight large potatoes, mash 
fine, add one pint boiling water, one cup sugar, nearly- 
half cup salt, stir until dissolved; add one pint cold 
water, strain through a sieve, add half cup yeast and 
set to rise ten or twelve hours before bottling. A 
pinch of hops can be boiled and strained over it with 
the boiling water. 

2. Grate four large sized raw potatoes; have ready- 
one pint boiling water in which a small pinch of hops 
has been boiled, strain it over the potato; set it on the 
fire to cook five minutes, then add one-half cup sugar, 
one-quarter cup salt, one pint cold water, one-half cup 
yeast, let it rise and cork tight; this yeast will keep 
good three months. 

3. Four raw potatoes, grated; mi.x with them three 
spoonfuls flour, a good pinch of hops, with water 
enough to cover, boil ten minutes; then strain the 
water onto the potatoes and flour; add one and a half 
quarts boiling water; when lukewarm add cup yeast, 
one-half cup sugar, one-fourth cup salt and set away 
to rise. 



SOUPS, 



"Now good digestion wait on appetite." 

—[Shakespeare. 

Stock. Take lean beef and cold water, in propor- 
tion of one pound of beef to one quart water; place 
it in a soup kettle over a good fire; when it boils add 
cup of cold water and remove the scum; then place the 
kettle over a moderate fire and let it simmer slowly 
four or five hours; this stock may be used for all soups 
in which meat broth is desired. 

Black Bean. One pint black beans, soaked over 
night; in the morning pour off the water, add a gallon 
of water, with any bones, either of beef or mutton, 
( very little meat needed), and boil several hours; 
season with salt and pepper; takeoff all the fat, strain 
the soup and let it boil again before serving; cut a 
lemon in thin slices and put into the tureen and pour 
the soup upon it; some add cloves and yolks of hard 
boiled eggs. 

Beef. Take sufficient soup stock; boil one onion, 
one carrot, one quart potatoes, and vegetables to suit 
taste, in a little water, and strain into the soup stock; 
add pepper, salt, etc., to suit. 

Bouillon. Put a shank of beef (six or seven pounds) 
into a large pot and cover with cold water; leave on 
front of stove until it boils, then move it to the back 
of stove and let it simmer an hour and a half; cut up 



SOUPS. 17 

two carrots, two onions, and half a lemon; salt to 
taste, and boil until the meat falls from the bones; 
then strain through a sieve and set in the cold; next 
day remove every particle of grease that has risen to 
the top; heat the bouillon and pour into cups, first 
having a slice of lemon in each cup; season to taste. 

Celery. Five heads of celery, one pint good soup 
stock, three of water, one-half pint cream or rich 
milk; cut the celery into inch lengths, put on with the 
water and cook until tender; take out the celery and 
rub through a sieve ; add to the soup stock and cook 
slowly one-half hour; heat the cream and stir into it 
one tablespoon flour rubbed into one tablespoon 
butter, cook five minutes; pour into the celery, heat 
very hot but not boil, and serve. 

Corn. One quart milk, one pint green corn (cut 
from the cob), two eggs, butter, pepper and salt to 
suit the taste. Cook half an hour. 

Lobster. Three crackers pounded fine, mixed with 
the tomally, piece butter size of an egg; boil one 
quart milk, and pour on the paste, stirring all the time 
until smooth; chop the lobster fine, put into the 
mixture, and boil, not too long, as it will make it tough. 
Pepper and salt. 

Mock Oyster. Six ripe tomatoes skinned and boiled 
in a pint of water, and a teaspoon saleratus, then add 
a quart of sweet milk, and four crackers pounded. 
Season with pepper and salt. 

Noodle. Two eggs, thicken with enough flour to roll 
out very thin, let dry two hours, roll and cut very 
thin; boil twenty minutes in chicken already prepared 
for soup. Season with onions. 



i8 SOUPS. 

Pea. One pint split peas, three quarts water, half 
pound salt pork, boil three or four hours, adding more 
water as it boils away. 

Potato. Take six good sized potatoes, boil soft, four 
onions boiled soft; mash both together till smooth; 
take three pints new milk, piece butter size of an egg, 
add potatoes and onions; bring to a boiling point, but 
do not let it boil. Season with salt and pepper. 

Tomato, i. One teaspoon butter, two teaspoons 
flour, one pint beef stock, one-fourth of a small onion, 
put butter in frying pan, cut onion in small pieces and 
brown; add one can tomatoes and cook one hour; 
pass through sieve, return to fire and add the stock 
and flour; season with salt, pepper and Worcester- 
shire sauce. Serve hot. 

2. One pint cooked tomatoes, one pint water, when 
boiled add half teaspoon soda; when done foaming, 
add one quart hot milk; season well with butter, 
pepper and salt. 

3. One pint boiling water, take one can tomatoes, 
let it come to a boil, then add two tablespoons flour 
mixed with the juice from the kettle with the tomato; 
season with sugar (or not), salt, pepper, butter to 
taste; boil all together twenty minutes, then strain 
through a fine sieve. Perfectly delicious. 



FISH 



"With hooks and nets you catch us, 

You never regard our pains; 
Yet we reward you with dainty food, 

To strengthen your body and brains." 

Baked Cod. Pour boiling water over the fish, and 
keep hot an hour; then take it off the bone and put in 
a dish with a quart of milk, half an onion, one-quarter 
pound butter, very little thickening of flour, little salt, 
and cover with bread crumbs. Bake an hour and a 
half. 

Baked Fish. Take a fish weighing from four to six 
pounds, wash clean, season with salt; make a dress- 
ing with five crackers rolled fine, one tablespoon 
butter, one teaspoon salt, little pepper, one-half tea- 
spoon chopped parsley, water enough to make moist, 
stuff the fish with this preparation, fasten with skewer, 
cut slits in fish, put in strips of salt pork, dredge with 
flour. Bake one hour, basting often. Serve with 
tomato sauce. 

Baked Lobster. Two or three lobsters chopped fine, 
season with pepper, salt and a tablespoon melted 
butter, one pint milk thickened with a tablespoon of 
flour, one teaspoon of mustard. Mix all together and 
bake with cracker crumbs on top. 

Baked Shad Roe. Wash and cook three shad roes 
in boiling water, salted, with one tablespoon vinegar 
for ten minutes. Place on a buttered plate, cover 
vvith tomato sauce and bake thirty minutes, basting 
twice. 



22 FISH. 

Tomato Sauce. Two tablespoons butter, one table- 
spoon flour, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon pepper, 
one cup stock, one cup strained tomatoes, a few drops 
onion juice. Very nice. 

Devilled Crabs. Make one cup cream sauce with 
one tablespoon melted butter, one heaping teaspoon 
flour, one cup hot cream; season with salt, pepper, a 
little cayenne and half salt spoon mustard, tablespoon 
parsley; add the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, rubbed 
to a paste; with this add one-half can of crabs; fill the 
shells, cover with buttered crumbs, brown in oven. 

Escaloped Lobster. Cut the meat of a three pound 
lobster into small pieces; melt two tablespoons butter 
in a sauce pan, add two tablespoons flour, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, one-half teaspoon pepper, few grains of 
cayenne; when bubbling pour on slowly one pint hot 
milk or one cup milk, and one cup hot white stock; 
add the lobster and fill buttered ramequins with the 
mixture; cover with buttered bread crumbs, bake until 
brown. 

Fillets of Halibut. Wipe and cut into strips one 
and one-half pounds halibut, sprinkle with lemon juice, 
salt and pepper, and lay a thin slice of onion on each 
strip; cover and let stand one-half hour, then remove 
the onion, dip the strips in melted butter, skewer into 
shape; place on a plate, dredge with flour, and bake 
two minutes in a hot oven. Serve with white sauce 
made with three tablespoons of butter, and three of 
flour. 

Fish Balls. One pint bowlful of raw fish, two heap- 
ing bowlfuls of pared potatoes, two eggs, butter the 
size of an egg, a little pepper; pick the fish very fine, 
and measure it lightly in the bowl; put potatoes into 



FISH. 23 

the boiler and the fish on top of them, cover with boil- 
ing water and boil half hour; drain off all the water, 
mash fish and potatoes together until fine and light; 
then add the butter, pepper and egg well beaten; drop 
from a spoon into boiling fat and cook until brown. 

Fish Croquettes. One pint of any kind of cold 
boiled fish, flake very fine, removing all bone and skin; 
season well with salt, pepper and chopped onion; boil 
one cup milk, add one tablespoon butter, thicken with 
one tablespoon flour; mix with the fish and set aside 
to cool; when cool shape and rub in fine crumbs of 
bread or cracker, dip into beaten egg, then roll again 
in crumbs taking care that every part is covered; fry 
in boiling fat and serve on a hot platter. 

Lobster Croquettes. One pint of lobster meat cut 
fine; season with one salt spoon salt, one of mustard, 
little cayenne; moisten with one cup thick cream sauce, 
cool and shape, roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs again, 
and fry in smoking hot fat. Drain on paper. 

Oyster and Clam Fritters. One and a half pints 
milk, one and a quarter pounds flour, four eggs, 
whites and yolks beaten separately, whites stirred in 
last lightly; clams must be chopped small; oysters used 
whole. 

Oysters, i. Broiled. Roll each oyster in pounded 
cracker, lay them on an oyster gridiron and broil each 
side; make a gravy by pouring boiling water on butter 
and adding salt to taste. Serve hot. 

2. Roast. Put a quart of oysters in a basin with 
their own liquor, and let boil three minutes; season 
with a little salt, pepper and butter. Serve on buttered 
toast. 



24 FISH. 

3. Scalloped. Four crackers, two tablespoons butter, 
teaspoon pepper, one quart oysters; put a la>-er of 
oysters with pepper and salt, then a layer of cracker 
crumbs with butter, until the dish is full. Bake twenty 
minutes. 

Potted Shad. A white stone jar, and one on which 
vinet^ar will have no effect is the first requisite; cut the 
shad in pieces to fit in the jar, with a little salt, pepper 
and whole cloves between each layer, then pour vine- 
gar over the whole and cover tightly; cook slowly all 
day in oven; serve when cold. If the vinegar is too 
strong dilute it. 

Salmon Croquettes. One pound can salmon, one cup 
powdered cracker, one cup cream; salt and pepper, 
and least touch of nutmeg; roll in cracker crumbs and 
beaten»egg, and again in cracker crumbs and fry. 



MEATS. 



" God sendeth and giveth both mouth and the meat." 

How to Choose Meats. It is always important to 
know how to choose meat in buying. Ox beef should 
be of fine grain or fibre, the flesh or lean of a bright 
red color and firm, the fat white, and distributed 
throughout the lean; it should not be yellow or semi- 
fluid. If the meat is entirely lean, it will be tough and 
its nutritive power is low. Veal is dry if fresh. It 
should be close-grained. If the meat is moist and 
flabby it is stale. Mutton should be of a clear, deep 
pink tint; firm, and with a liberal supply of fat. Fine 
wether mutton may be recognized by the presence of 
a small mass of fat on the upper part of the leg. It 
is more nutricious than ordinary mutton, the darker its 
tint the finer its flavor. Pork should be of a pale deep 
pink tint, and the fat very firm. If it is soft or the fat 
i^ yellow the meat is bad. If it is semi-fluid the animal 
has probably been fed on flesh. 

Potted Beef. Take a large beef shank and put it 
into cold water to cover it, boil until perfectly tender, 
remove bone and cartilage, chop the meat fine 
and replace it in the kettle with the liquor which 
should be one quart, let it simmer gently and season 
with salt, pepper and mace to suit the taste. Press and 
cut in slices for lunch or tea. 

Croquettes. To use up small, nice pieces of meat, 
chop them fine, and mix bread crumbs, a little broth 
or gravy, an egg, pepper and salt. Make into cakes 
and roll in flour, and fry in hot drippings. 



28 MEATS. 

Meat Pie. Cut up some good, tender, raw beef or 
mutton, season with pepper, salt, and if liked one finely 
chopped onion; boil half dozen good sized potatoes, 
when done, mash smooth and wet with milk enough to 
make a dough to make the crust, salt to taste; roll out 
full half an inch thick, and line a buttered dish large 
enough to hold the meat; lay in the meat, add a tea- 
cup of water or a little less, then roll out a thick crust 
of the potato, coxering the top of the pie at least an 
inch thick, and bake about an hour and a half. 

Meat and Potato Pie. Butter a baking dish; put in 
layer of cold mashed potatoes, or sliced ones, but if 
these are used, small pieces of butter must be added; 
on the potato put a layer of meat cut in small pieces, 
little salt, pepper and a few rings of onions; then more 
potato, and in this way fill the dish having the top 
potato. Before the last layer of potato, pour in any 
gravy you may have; bake until the potato is a nice 
brown. 

De-villed Ham. One pint boiled ham chopped fine 
with a good proportion of fat, one teaspoon dry mus- 
tard, one tablespoon flour, one-half cup boiling water. 
Press in a mould and cut in slices. 

Roast Lamb and Mint Sauce. Stuff a hind quarter 
of lamb with fine bread crumbs, pepper, salt and 
butter; rub the outside with salt, pepper, butter and 
flour; then roast two hours. Mint sauce:— Chop the 
mint fine; pour on a little hot water; let it stand on 
the stove a short time, then add a little vinegar and 
sugar to taste. 

Sausages. .Six pounds lean and two pounds fat pork, 
four tablespoons salt, six of sage, four of pepper, two 
of cloves. 



MEATS. 29 

To Chop Suet. Sprinkle flour over it while chop- 
ping, which will prevent the pieces from adhering. 

Veal Loaf. i. Three pounds raw veal, one-quarter 
pound salt pork (less will do if a little butter is used), 
chop fine, mix with two eggs, one cup cracker crumbs, 
three teaspoons salt, two of pepper, one tablespoon 
sage; press hard into a pudding dish and bake two 
hours. To be sliced when cold. 

2. Three and a half pounds of raw veal, three slices 
salt pork chopped fine, six crackers pounded fine, two 
eggs beaten, tablespoon salt, teaspoon pepper, two 
pinches allspice, one of cloves, knead all together into 
a loaf, egg it over, put bits of butter on the top and 
scatter pounded cracker. Bake two hours basting 
with water. 

Minced Veal. Three and one-half pounds of veal 
chopped fine, four eggs well beaten, four crackers 
pounded fine, one tablespoon salt, the same of pepper, 
one-half tablespoon nutmeg, three tablespoons cream 
or milk, butter the size of an egg. Mix all together 
in a loaf and bake two hours. 

Veal Cutlets. Cut veal into pieces for serving; 
season with salt and pepper; dredge with flour (or egg 
and crumbs); brown in salt pork fat; put into stew 
pan; make brown gravy; season highly with vegeta- 
bles cut fine or Worcestershire sauce. Pour over meat 
and simmer till tender (one and one-half hours). 

Timbales. Mince and season meat with salt and 
pepper; add one egg and about one-half as much bread 
crumbs as meat; make moist enough with gravy and 
put in thoroughly buttered cups and bake in pan of 
water or not. 

Camelons. Made same as Timbales, but baked in a roll 
one-half hour and served with tomato sauce around it. 



FO^A^L. 



"And as an ev'ning dragon came, 
Assailant on the perched roosts 
Ami nests in order raiig'd 
Of tame villatic fowl." 

—[Milton. 

Chicken Pie. Cut into pieces the chickens, boil in 
enough water to cover until tender, adding when half 
done one tablespoon salt; take out chicken, keep warm, 
and thicken the liquid with one tablespoon each flour 
and butter rubbed together; add salt and pepper to 
taste; boil five minutes; take one quart flour, two tea- 
spoons Cleveland's baking powder, little salt and one 
small cup butter; mix as biscuit. Take half, roll one- 
quarter inch thick and line a deep dish, leaving an inch 
over the sides to turn up over top crust; put in chicken, 
pour o\'er gravy, cover with the other crust, with a 
large hole in center for steam to escape. Wet the 
edge and fold over the under crust, press firmly to- 
gether; spread soft butter over the top, make ornament 
to fit the center and bake until done. 

Chicken in Jelly. Boil a chicken or chickens in as 
little water as possible until the meat falls from the 
bones; pick off the meat, cut it rather fine, and season 
well with pepper and salt; put into the bottom and 
sides of a mould slices of hard-boiled eggs and fill 
nearly full with chicken. Boil down the broth till 
there is about a cupful left; season it well and pour 
over the chicken. It will form a jelly around the 
chicken. Let it stand on the ice o\-er night oral! day. 
To be sliced at table; garnish with fringed celery. If 
there is fear of the jelly not being stiff enough a little 
gelatine may be soaked and added. 



FOWL. 31 

Chicken Croquettes. One pound cooked chicken 
chopped fine, one-fourth pound white bread, one-fourth 
pound butter, four eQ;gs, three large teaspoons finely 
chopped parsley, pinch of mace and nutmeg, one tea- 
poon salt, one pinch cayenne pepper; pour enough boil- 
ing water over the bread to soften it, place on the fire 
with the yolks of two eggs and cook until smooth; set 
away to cool, while mixing the chicken with the rest of 
the eggs unbeaten, two tablespoons thick cream, the 
butter and seasoning; beat all thoroughly together till 
nicely mixed; let the mixture get quite cold before 
forming into croquettes. A famous Southern receipt. 

Maryland Chicken. Singe, remove fine feathers, cut 
into pieces for serving, wipe, season with salt and 
pepper, dip in egg, roll in fine cracker crumbs; put 
pieces into a buttered dish and bake one hour, basting 
very^^often with one-third cup butter and one cup 
water. Serve with cream sauce. 

Pressed Chicken. Boil chicken very tender; be sure 
to have plenty of liquor; separate white meat from the 
dark; soak three slices of bread in the liquor for a 
few minutes, then chop it up with the dark meat. Put 
white meat in the bottom of the dish, pour a little liquor 
on, then put on a layer of dark meat, leave until it is 
cold, and it will turn out like jelly. 

Roast Duck. After the duck is drawn, wipe the in- 
side with a clean cloth and prepare dressing as follows: 
One cup pounded cracker, moisten with hot milk or 
water, three medium sized onions, parboil and chop 
fine, little butter, sage, pepper and salt to taste; mix 
all together and fill the crop and body of the duck, 
leaving room for the dressing to swell; reserve the 
liver, gizzard and heart for gravy; tie the body of the 



32 FOWL. 

duck firmly with a string (which is buttered to keep 
from burning), and put in the oven. Baste first with 
salt and water, and then with its own gravy, dredging 
them last with a little flour. 

Potted Pigeons. Make dressing the same as for tur- 
key, stuff them and fry in pork fat until nicely 
browned; take them out, pour the fat into a kettle 
with little water, put them into this, and let them 
simmer half an hour or more. When done, take them 
out, thicken the broth a little and pour over them. 

Turkey. For a ten pound turkey take two pints 
bread crumbs, half teacup butter, cut in small pieces, 
one teaspoon summer savory, pepper and salt; fill tur- 
key with little of the dressing, few strained oysters, 
alternating until filled. Put the oyster liquid in the 
pan with a pint of water; bake in a moderate oven. 



EGGS. 



" From the egg to the apples (for a chuiier) from the beginning to the end." 

Egg Vermicelli. Boil three eggs twenty minutes; 
separate the yolks and break the whites with a silver 
fork into fine pieces; toast four slices of bread, cut half 
into small squares and half into points or triangles; 
make one cup of thin, white sauce with one cup cream 
or milk, one teaspoon butter, one heaping teaspoon 
flour, one-half teaspoon salt, one-half saltspoon of 
pepper; stir the whites into the sauce, and when hot 
pour it over the squares ' of toast; rub the yolks 
through a fine strainer over the whole, and garnish 
with the toast points and parsley. 

Omelette, i. Soak one-half cup bread crumbs in a 
cup of milk, with salt to taste; when soft, add four 
well beaten eggs, and pour into a hot spider, in which 
is a generous piece of butter; cook slowly for ten 
minutes, slip a knife around the edges, roll or fold it 
and put on a platter. 

2. Six eggs, whites beaten to a stiff froth, yolks 
well beaten; one cup warm milk, one tablespoon flour 
wet to a paste with cold milk; one teaspoon salt; mix 
all except the whites, add them last; cook immediately 
in a buttered spider for about ten minutes, fold like a 
turnover. 



36 EGGS. 

Baked Eggs. One pint milk, four eggs beaten sep- 
arately, scald the milk and thicken with one tablespoon 
flour, let it cool a little; add the yolks, the whites, and 
a bit of salt; pour in a buttered dish and bake till it 
rises like a custard. 

Shirred Eggs. Take as many eggs as there are 
persons to eat them; separate the eggs and beat whites 
to a stiff froth, drop it in a Washington pie tin in 
bunches, put yolk on top of each and a little pepper, 
salt and butter. Put in a very hot oven and brown 
lightly. 

A La Cream. Boil ten eggs until hard; slice in 
rings; in the bottom of a baking dish place a layer of 
bread crumbs, then one of eggs; cover with bits of 
butter, pepper and salt, until all are used; pour over 
them a cup cream and brown in the oven. 

Dropped. Drop fresh eggs into a saucepan of boil- 
ing water, with salt in it; have ready slices of buttered 
toast; then take up with a skimmer and lay on the 
toast. 



VEGETABLES. 



" Eartli's increase, foison plenty, 
Barns and garners never empty. 
Vines with clustering bunches growing, 
Plants with goodly burthen bowing." 



TIME FOR COOKING VEGETABLES. 





SUMMER. 


WINTER. 


Green Peas, 


1-2 hour 




String Beans, 


2 hours 




Squash, 


1 hour 


1 hour 


Asparagus, - - - 


- 1-2 hour 




Cabbage, - 


1 hour 


8 hours 


Turnips, - - 


1 hour 


2 hours 


Parsnips, - - - 





1 hour 


Carrots, . •_ - 





1 1-2 hours 


Beets, 


1 hour 


3 1-2 hours 


Shelled Beans, 


1 hour 




Onions, 





1 hour 


Potatoes, 


- 1-2 hour 


1-2 hour 


Potatoes, Baked, 





1 hour 


Spinage, 


1 hour 


1 1-2 hours 


Corn, 


1-2 hour 




Sweet Potatoes, 





3-4 hour 


Sweet Potatoes, Baked, 





1 hour 



SALADS, 



" To make a perfect salal there sliould be a miser for oil, a spendthrift for 
vinegar, a wise man for salt, an I a mad cap to stir the ingredients up and mix 
them well together."— [Spanish Pkoveub. 

Cabbage. Chop the cabbage, taking out the core 
and coarse parts of the leaves. Sprinkle with salt, 
black pepper, dry mustard and celery — salt to suit your 
taste. Two good sized cabbages, beat two eggs light, 
add two cups vinegar, piece butter the size of an egg, 
heat it until it comes to a boiling heat and thicken 'a 
little, stirring carefully all the time, and then pour it 
hot over the cabbage, mixing thoroughly. When cold 
it is fit to eat. Most excellent. 

Chicken or Lobster. The meat of two lobsters or 
two chickens, three-quarters the same bulk of celery, 
yolks of five eggs, two teaspoons mustard, one tea- 
spoon pepper, half teaspoon salt for lobster, whole 
teaspoon salt for chicken, one-third cup vinegar. One 
small bottle sweet oil stirred gradually into the egg, a 
few drops at a time. After it begins to thicken, add 
the other ingredients well mixed in the vinegar. 

Egg. Boil a dozen eggs twenty minutes; cut them 
at one side and slip out the yolks; mash yolks smooth 
with small piece of butter, salt, a little made mustard; 
moisten with vinegar and salad oil alternately. Fill 
the whites with the mixture and serve on a lettuce leaf. 



SALADS. 39 

Salmon. One pint salmon, free from bones, skin 
and oil. Two parts white cabbage shredded fine, or 
cut; moisten with boiled dressing, garnish with dark 
green lettuce. 

Dressing for Cabbage. One or two eggs, beaten, half 
teacup vinegar, one tablespoon mustard, butter half 
the size of an egg; thin with milk or cream — if milk, 
more butter should be used — teaspoon salt, two tea- 
spoons sugar, pepper. Pour over chopped cabbage. 

Dressing for Salad. Five tablespoons oil, half pint 
strong vinegar, two teaspoons mustard, one teaspoon 
salt, half teaspoon pepper, add little cayenne to taste, 
four eggs well beaten. Put vinegar on the stove in 
kettle of hot water and let it come to a scald, add the 
rest of ingredients and stir till it thickens. 

Dressing for Lobster Salad. Four eggs, one tea- 
spoon pepper, one teaspoon salt, two teaspoons mus- 
tard, five tablespoons butter. Beat all together until 
it thickens up smooth. 

Leontine's Lobster. Two medium sized lobsters, one 
cup vinegar, piece butter size of an egg, put them on 
to boil. Beat up one or two eggs, one, teaspoon each 
salt, sugar, mustard, curry, half teaspoon pepper, juice 
of a lemon; put the mi.xture into the vinegar and cook 
until it thickens, adding rather more than half cup 
milk. Add lettuce or celery if desired. Very nice. 

Salad Dressing, i. Yolks of six eggs, one teaspoon 
mustard, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon pepper, one 
and a half teaspoons sweet oil stirred gradually into 
the egg, few drops at a time, until perfectly smooth, 
then add half cup vinegar. Reserve little of the 
dressing without the vinegar, to which add capers and 
olives split. 



40 SALADS. 

2. One tablespoon mustard, one tablespoon butter 
or oil; rub mustard and oil together thoroughly and 
add one tablespoon salt, one tablespoon sugar, three 
eggs (well beaten), one cup rich milk; let the mixture 
warm slightly and add one cup strong vinegar; let it 
come almost to a boil; if bottled it will keep some 
time. Excellent with fish. 

3. One and one-half cups cream, one-half or two- 
thirds cup vinegar, three eggs, one tablespoon mus- 
tard, one tablespoon oil or butter, one scant tablespoon 
salt, three tablespoons sugar; mix oil with mustard; 
add eggs, then salt and sugar; mix thoroughly with 
the vinegar and strain through coarse sieve; have the 
cream hot in milk boiler; add above mixture slowly, 
stir until it thickens. Milk and more butter can be 
used in place of cream. 

4. Bangor. Two (rounded) tablespoons butter, two 
(scant) tablespoons flour; butter and flour cooked 
together till smooth; add slowly one cup (or less) of 
vinegar, two whole eggs or three yolks, two table- 
spoons sugar, dash of cayenne, one teaspoon mustard, 
stir into one pint hot milk; cook like soft custard; 
adding salt if needed; beat with egg beater and strain. 
One cup cream, whipped, is an improvement. 

5. Cream Dressing. The yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs rubbed very smoothly, then add dessertspoon 
mixed mustard, blend the two thoroughly, then stir in 
a tablespoon melted butter, half cup thick cream, little 
salt, cayenne pepper and sugar; add little by little 
vinegar enough to make the whole a smooth creamy 
mass. Last of all add the whites of two eggs, well 
beaten. 



SALADS. 41 

Mustard Dressing. Three tablespoons mustard, one 
and one-half teaspoons sugar, three-quarters tea- 
spoon salt, enough boiling water to mix it; when cool 
add one and one-half tablespoons oil, and vinegar to 
thin it. 

Yolks of eight eggs, well beaten, one-fourth cup 
sugar, one tablespoon salt, three tablespoons of the 
mustard described above, cayenne to taste, one- 
half cup milk, one cup butter; stir all together over 
the fire as you would soft custard. When somewhat 
cooled add one-half pint vinegar. Bottle tight. 

Welsh Rare-bit. One-quarter pound nice cheese, cut 
in thin slices, put in a spider pouring over it a large 
cup milk, stirring until the cheese is dissolved, one- 
quarter teaspoon dry mustard, dash of pepper, and a 
pinch of salt; stir the mixture all the time till dis- 
solved, add three pounded crackers, and a piece butter 
size of a butternut. As soon as they are stirred in 
turn into a warm dish and serve. Nice for tea. 



PIES. 



" Wiirt please you taste of what is here? " 

—[Tempest. 

Pie Crust. One quart flour, one-half pound lard, 
one-quarter pound butter, with water; knead till 
smooth, roll it out thin three times, touching it each 
time with the lard, sprinkling with flour and rolling it 
up to be rolled out again. 

Pie Crust Glaze. To prevent juice soaking through 
a pie and making it soggy, wet the crust with the 
beaten white of an egg, before you put in the pie mix- 
ture. If the top of the pie is also wet it gives it a 
beautiful brown. Milk can be used on the top of a 
pie, and will be quite as satisfactory. 

Gocoanut. Three cups flour, two of sugar, one of 
milk, one-half cup butter, flour, four eggs, two teaspoons 
cream tartar, one teaspoon soda, vanilla to flavor. 
For the Inside: Whites two eggs, two cups powdered 
sugar; flavor with vanilla. Cover the first sheet of 
cake with a layer of this, then one of grated cocoanut; 
cover the top of the cake in the same way. 

Cream. One cup sugar, heaping cup flour, three 
eggs, butter size of an egg, one teaspoon cream tartar, 
one-half teaspoon soda dissolved in a little hot water 
added just before going into the oven. Cream: One 
cup milk, two eggs, two tablespoons flour, one-half 
cup sugar. Flavor with lemon. 

Chess. Beat the yolks of three eggs till smooth, add 
one-half cup sugar and beat again, then add one-third 
cup butter, rubbed to a cream, and one-half teaspoon 



PIES. 45 

vanilla; bake on a plate lined with puff paste; when 
done, cover with the whites of three eggs, beaten stiff, 
and mixed with one-half cup powdered sugar and one 
teaspoon lemon juice. Brown slightly and cut while 
hot. Not to be served cold. 

Lemon, i. Six lemons, four cups sugar, six eggs, 
two ounces butter; grate the rind of the lemons and 
strain the juice; rub the butter and sugar together, 
then add the eggs well beaten, then the lemon. This 
makes two pies. Line the plates with rich puff paste 
and bake without top crust. 

2. Juice and grated rind of one lemon, one cup 
sugar, one cup water, four eggs well beaten, (reserv- 
ing the whites of two for frosting); cover plate with 
puff paste and bake without top crust. Beat reserved 
whites with two tablespoons sugar and put on top of 
pie and brown lightly. 

3. Beat one cup sugar and one egg together, add 
juice and grated rind of one lemon, then one and one- 
half cups pounded cracker; bake on plate covered 
with rich paste; when done cover with whites of one 
egg and one-half cup sugar beaten together. Brown 
lightly. 

4. Extra. Six apples, four lemons, four cups sugar, 
four eggs. Grate the lemons and apples. 

Marlborough, i. Two pounds apples, stewed and 
sifted, one pound butter, melted, one pound sugar, 
twelve eggs, juice of two lemons, five tablespoons 
cream, little nutmeg and cinnamon. Bake in rich puff 
paste. This amount makes five pies in medium-size 
plates. 

2 Steam and strain six good sized apples, add while 
hot one tablespoon butter; when cool, stir in the yolks 
of three eggs, the grated rind and juice of one lemon. 



46 PIES. 

one cup sugar. Bake on plates lined with puff paste 
and use the whites of the eggs for frosting. 

Squash, i. (Very Nice.) Peel, core, steam and 
strain one squash; thin with milk to the consistency 
of thick apple sauce; allow four eggs to one quart of 
milk. Beat the eggs, and add sugar, salt and lemon 
to taste. 

2. One cup stewed and sifted squash, one cup boil- 
ing milk; when cool add one heaping cup sugar, two 
eggs, little salt, little nutmeg and cinnamon. The 
grated rind of a lemon is an improvement. 

Orange. Juice and grated rind of one orange, one 
cup sugar, yolks of three eggs, one tablespoon corn 
starch stirred smooth with milk, one cup milk and 
piece butter size of a chestnut. Bake on plates lined 
with puff paste. Beat the whites of the eggs with 
three tablespoons sugar and put on top and brown 

Mince Meat. Three pounds beef, one pound suet, 
one pound pork, cooked and chopped fine, add enough 
water from the meat to make moist; chop and add 
nine apples, three pounds raisins, and one pound 
citron; if currants are liked add one pound; then add 
one quart cider, one pint boiled cider, (wine or brandy 
may be used instead), four pounds brown sugar, two 
tablespoons cinnamon, two of nutmeg, one of mace, 
allspice and cloves; use salt to taste. The grated rind 
of lemon is an impro\-ement. 

Mock Mince. One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one cup vinegar or wine, one-half cup molasses, one 
cup cold water, one cup raisins, one cup currants, three 
pounded crackers, two eggs, one lemon, salt, and tea- 
spoon each of spice of all kinds. This quantity makes 
three pies. . 



PIES. 47 

Rhubarb. One cup chopped rhubarb, one cracker 
pounded fine, yolks of two eggs, one cup sugar, one 
teaspoon lemon, salt, and bits of butter. Whip the 
whites of the eggs for frosting. 

Modern Rhubarb. One cup chopped rhubarb, one 
cup sugar, one egg. 

Saratoga. One and one- half cups stewed apples, 
three eggs, one gill cream, one tablespoon butter, two 
of chopped citron, eight macaroons; melt the butter 
and mix thoroughly with the other ingredients and 
bake between two crusts. 

Apple Custard. One quart stewed and sifted apple, 
one quart milk, one cup sugar, two tablespoons melted 
butter, little grated lemon and nutmeg, six eggs, well 
beaten. Bake without top crust. 

Bambury Tart. One coffee cup raisins, seeded, and 
chopped fine, one cup sugar, one egg, juice and grated 
rind of one lemon; stir all into a paste. Make a puff 
paste and ciat into rounds with a biscuit cutter; place 
a teaspoon of prepared mixture on a round, and cover 
with another round, pressing the edges well tpgether. 
Bake in a quick oven. Fine for picnics. v 

Cream Raspbeary. Line a pie dish with puff paste 
and fill with well sweetened raspberries; cover with a 
crust but do not pinch down the edges; butter the 
lower edge to prevent adhesion; bake in a quick oven. 
While this is cooking, heat a small cup of milk, 
add a pinch of soda, then stir in one teaspoon 
corn starch, wet in cold milk, and one teaspoon sugar 
and cook three minutes. Remove from stove and beat 
in the frothed whites of two eggs; beat until it is a 
stiff cream, and when cold raise the top crust of the 
pie and pour the cream mixture over the raspberries, 
then replace the crust and let it get cold before serving. 



PUDDINGS. 



" The daintiest last, to make the end more sweet." 

[— KiKG RlCHAKD II. 

Apple. One quart flour, one pint milk, one teaspoon 
soda, two teaspoons cream tartar, and small piece 
butter; roll out and fill with sliced apples; steam three 
hours. Served with sauce. 

Apple Charlotte. Butter an earthen dish, and place 
around the sides slices of bread which have been cut 
about one inch thick, then soak in cold water and 
spread with butter, fill dish with sliced apple, grate over 
them one nutmeg, add one cup sugar, one cup water; 
cover with slices of bread which have been soaked 
and buttered and place a large plate over the dish and 
bake four hours; remove from the oven and let it get 
cool. When ready to serve, loosen around the edges 
with a knife and turn out on a dish. Serve with sugar 
and cream. 

Apple Cream. Three tart apples, baked slowly (be 
careful not to brown the pulp); remove the skin and 
cores and strain, add one and one-half cups sugar, 
whites of two eggs, beaten stiff, and juice of one 
lemon; beat to a stiff froth. Serve with boiled custard 
made of the yolks of the eggs. 

Charlotte Russe. One-third box gelatine dissolved 
in a coffee cup milk, one pint cream, sweetened and 
flavored with vanilla; beat together and let it stand 



PUDDINGS. 49 

until it begins to stiffen, then stir in the beaten whites 
of five eggs; line a dish with thin slices of plain cake 
(sponge being best), and pour in the mixture and set 
away to harden. When ready to serve, turn out on a 
dish. 

Chocolate. Boil two cups bread crumbs in one quart 
milk till it thickens then let it cool; beat the yolks of 
five and the whites of two eggs with one cup sugar 
and three tablespoons grated chocolate, and add to the 
cooled mixture and bake one-half hour; beat the 
whites of three eggs with five tablespoons sugar and a 
small teaspoon vanilla, and spread over the pudding 
when cold and brown lightly. Eat cold with or with- 
out cream. 

College. Yolks of two eggs, one-half cup sugar, one- 
half cup butter, one cup milk, one pint flour, teaspoon 
cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. Sauce: Whites 
of two eggs, one and one-half cups sugar and juice of 
one lemon beaten stiff. 

Cottage. One cup sugar, one egg, three tablespoons 
melted butter, one cup milk, two cups flour, one tea- 
spoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. Bake 
one-half hour. Serve with hot sauce. 

Cracker. One quart milk, eight tablespoons pounded 
cracker, four tablespoons sugar, five eggs, one-half 
pound raisins, piece of butter on top. Bake one-half 
hour. 

Columbia. Two and one-half cups flour, one cup 
molasses, one cup sour milk, one-half teaspoon cinna 
mon, o'ne teaspoon soda, one-half cup chopped pork or 
suet, one-half cup raisins. Steam three hours. 



50 PUDDINGS. 

Cocoanut. Boil ten minutes one quart milk and 
three tablespoons tapioca (which has soaked in water 
over night), then add and let boil five minutes longer, 
the beaten yolks of four eggs, one cup sugar, three 
tablespoons cocoanut; this should be cooking enough; 
pour in a fancy dish and cover with the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth with three tablespoons 
sugar; sprinkle cocoanut on top and brown lightly. 
To be eaten cold. 

Indian, i. One quart milk (reserving one cup); 
scald the milk, add three tablespoons meal wet in a 
little cold milk; boil two minutes, then add one cup 
molasses, the remainder of the milk, one-half cup cold 
water, one egg. Bake in a moderate oven at least 
three hours. 

2. Three tablespoons Indian meal, one cup molas- 
ses, two quarts milk, two eggs, butter half the size of 
an egg, one tablespoon ginger and two teaspoons salt. 
Boil half the milk and pour it on the meal, then add 
all the rest and bake four or five hours. 

English Plum. Two cups molasses, one cup milk, 
two cups chopped suet, two cups chopped raisins, one 
teaspoon salt, two teaspoons soda, beat in the molas- 
ses, nutmeg, cloves and mace to taste, few strips citron 
and flour enough to make it stiff. Steam five hours. 

2. Beat six yolks and four whites of eggs very 
light, and add to them a tumbler of sweet milk; stir 
in gradually one-fourth pound grated stale bread, one 
pound flour, three-quarters pound sugar, pound each 
of beef suet, chopped fine, currants nicely washed and 
dried, stoned raisins well floured; stir well, then add 
two nutmegs, a tablespoon mace, one of cimiamon, 
one-half of cloves, one wine glass brandy, one tea- 



PUDDINGS. 51 

spoon salt, and finally another tumbler of milk; one 
pound of citron (blanched sweet almonds are also a 
great addition but may be omitted); boil in bowls or 
moulds five hours. These will keep for months. When 
wanted steam one hour. Serve with a sauce made of 
drawn butter, sugar, wine and nutmeg. 

Mountain Dew. One pint milk, four tablespoons 
pounded cracker, yolks three eggs well beaten; bake 
to a light brown; beat the whites of the eggs with one 
cup sugar and the juice of one lemon, spread over the 
pudding and brown lightly. To be eaten cold. 

Queen of Puddings. One pint bread crumbs, one 
quart milk, )'olks four eggs, piece butter size of an 
egg, one cup sugar, the grated rind of one lemon; 
bake one-half hour. Spread preserves or jelly on top, 
then cover with the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth with one cup sugar and the juice of one 
lemon. Brown lightly. 

Scarboro Puffs. One quart milk, one tablespoon 
butter, twelve eggs, little salt; boil the milk, and while 
boiling, stir in flour until the batter is stiff enough for 
the spoon to stand up in when cold; after it is cold, 
stir in the butter, and one egg at a time without beat- 
ing; drop from a spoon into hot lard and fry a light 
brown; roll while hot in sugar and cinnamon, mixed. 
Sauce: To a cup of cream, beaten to a froth, add one 
cup sugar and flavor to taste. 

Sponge. One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one 
cup milk, four eggs, two teaspoons cream tartar, one 
of soda, three cups flour. Bake one hour. Eat with 
liquid sauce. 



52 PUDDINGS. 

Tapioca Cream. Soak over night three tablespoons 
tapioca in water enough to soften and cover it; in the 
morning scald one quart milk and stir in the tapioca, 
then add the yolks of three eggs, well beaten with one 
cup sugar and a little salt. Beat the whites of the eggs 
with three tablespoons sugar and spread on top. To 
be eaten cold. 

Orange Cream. Soak one-fourth box gelatine in 
one-fourth cup cold water till well softened; scald one 
pint milk and pour over the gelatine, and stir in the 
yolks of two eggs and sugar to taste; when smooth 
and thick, strain and cool, then add the juice of three 
or four oranges and a little orange flavoring, and the 
stiffly beaten whites of the eggs, or better still, one 
cup whipped cream. Set on ice until wanted. 

Rye. One pint milk, two eggs, little salt, three 
tablespoons rye meal; steam one-half hour, and then 
the rye should be on top and bottom with the custard 
between. Serve with sauce. 

Pineapple. Soak one-half box gelatine in one-half 
cup water two hours; grate one small pineapple into a 
sauce pan with one cup sugar, one cup water, simmer 
ten minutes, add the gelatine and strain; when cool, 
add the whites of four eggs, and beat until it begins to 
thicken, then put into a mould to harden. Serve cold 
with a soft custard flavored with wine. 

Carrot. One-half pint grated bread crumbs, one- 
fourth pound flour, one-fourth pound butter, one-half 
pound candied cherries, one-half pound boiled and 
sifted carrot, one-half pound sugar, one teaspoon 
baking powder, little salt and two eggs. Steam in melon 
mould two and one-half hours. Serve with hot sauce. 



PUDDINGS. 53 

Apple Meringue. Make a syrup of one and one- 
half pints water, two cups sugar and one lemon; pare 
and quarter ten apples, cook in the syrup until they 
are red, then put in a dish that will hold at least one 
quart; make a custard of one pint milk, yolks three 
eggs, one-half cup sugar and flav^or with lemon; when 
it becomes cold, pour over the apples and cover with 
frosting mide from the whites of the eggs and two 
tablespoons confectioners' sugar. Brown in the oven. 
To be eaten cold. 

Fig. One-half pound bread crumbs, one-half pound 
figs chopped fine, one-half pound suet, chopped fine, 
little salt, one-half cup sugar, two eggs well beaten; 
flavor with nutmeg. Boil in a tin pudding mould four 
hours. Eat with hot sauce 

Almond Rice. Blanch one-half cup almonds; put 
with one cup well washed rice, one-fourth cup sugar, 
one-half teaspoon salt, into three cups hot milk and 
cook in double boiler till the rice is tender. Serve hot 
or cold with jelly and whipped cream. 

Snow Balls. One cup flour, three well beaten eggs, 
one cup sugar, one tablespoon milk, one-half teaspoon 
soda, one teaspoon cream tartar. Steam in cups thirty 
minutes. Serve with liquid sauce. 

Prune Whip. Soak one pound prunes over night; 
in the morning stew till tender with one cup sugar, 
then rub through a sieve; beat till stiff the whites of 
four eggs, then add the sifted prunes and the grated 
rind and juice of one lemon; beat all well together, 
then heap on a dish and bake in the oven till a delicate 
brown. Serve with whipped cream or a custard made 
with one pint milk, the beaten yolks four eggs, four 
tablespoon ssugar and a little salt. Flavor with vanilla. 
To be eaten cold. 



54 PUDDINGS. 

Coburg. Heat three cups milk in a double boiler; 
cook one-half cup well washed rice in one cup boiling 
water five minutes, or till the water is absorbed, then 
turn it into the hot milk and cook till tender; add one 
teaspoon salt, one teaspoon butter, one well beaten 
egg, two tablespoons sugar, and let it cook a few 
minutes; turn into a dish for serving, and sift over 
the top a little sugar and cinnamon, and dot thickly 
with butter. Set it in the oven a few minutes when 
ready to serve. 

Caramel Custard. One-half cup sugar, put in a pan 
and stir till it melts and is brown, then add two tea- 
spoons water and one quart hot milk; beat six eggs 
with a little salt, one teaspoon vanilla, stir into the 
milk and pour into a buttered mould; set the mould 
in a pan of hot water and bake thirty minutes. Serve 
cold with a sauce made with one-half cup sugar, put 
in a pan and melted, and when brown, add one-half 
cup water and boil ten minutes. It can be flavored 
with vanilla or not. 

Lemon Jelly. One-half box gelatine, soaked till 
soft in cup water; take one pint water and boil an inch 
piece of stick cinnamon, and the grated rind of two 
lemons, ten minutes, then add the gelatine, one cup 
sugar, one-half cup lemon juice, and when well dis- 
solved, strain and set on ice. 

Tipsy Trifle. Take six oranges, remove skin, white 
part and seeds ; slice, put in dish with cup sugar 
sprinkled over them and let stand two hours. For the 
cream: one quart milk, yolks five eggs, one-half cup 
sugar, one half cup flour, little salt; scald milk, add 
eggs, sugar and flour; stir briskly; add one teaspoon 
vanilla, grated rind two oranges; place oranges in dish 



PUDDINGS. 55 

and cover with cream. Beat whites of eggs to a stiff 
froth; add two cups powdered sugar, one-quarter tea- 
spoon cream tartar, little vanilla, beat until stiff. Take 
one-half and color with strawberry, then put in dish 
spoonful each alternately; brown in oven. To be eaten 
cold. This is delicious as well as ornamental. 

Strawberry Trifle. One cup sugar, one-half cup 
milk, two eggs, two cups. flour, one teaspoon cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. Bake this in Wash- 
ington pie tins. It will make two. 

For filling, take one cup milk, yolk of one egg, 
one tablespoon flour, two tablespoons sugar and cook. 
Just before serving, split the cakes and fill with mashed 
strawberries and put the custard on top. Beat the 
whites of two eggs and put on top of the custard and 
dot with berries. 

Fruit. Dissolve one box gelatine in one pint cold- 
water, then add one pint boiling water, two cups sugar 
and the juice of three lemons; strain and let it stand 
till it begins to harden, then add two oranges, cut in 
small pieces, two sliced bananas, six figs cut fine (if 
you like them), six dates cut fine, ten chopped nuts, 
one-half pound candied cherries, and one-quarter 
pound of angelica. Any kind of candied fruit can be 
used as well as those named. Wine can be added- 
Serve with whipped cream. 

Fruit Salad. Bananas and oranges sliced and mixed 
in a salad bowl; to the juice of two oranges add one 
gill sherry wine, two ounces sugar, the white of one 
egg. Simmer this for five minutes, but do not let it 
boil, then strain, and when cool, pour over the fruit 
and place it on ice till time to serve. 



SAUCES. 



" Hunger is the best sauce." 

1. Beat one-half cup butter to a cream, then add 
one cup powdered sugar, four tablespoons wine or 
brandy, and one-quarter cup cream. Place bowl in 
hot water and stir over the fire till creamy. 

2. One tablespoon flour rubbed with one-half cup 
butter, one cup sugar. Stir into one cup boiling milk 
and add one egg beaten separately. 

3. One cup butter, one cup sugar, creamed to- 
gether, with one box of strawberries or raspberries; 
makes a delicious sauce for cottage or bread puddings. 

Hard Sauce. Rub one cup sugar, one-half cup 
butter to a cream, then add the beaten white of one 
egg and put on ice to harden. 

MoUie's Pudding. Stir one egg, one cup sugar till 
foamy and the sugar is dissolved. Cook one dessert- 
spoon flour in three tablespoons of water ten minutes, 
beat into the sugar one egg just before serving. Flavor 
with vanilla. 

Plain Pudding. Melt one heaping tablespoon butter, 
add two tablespoons flour, stir in one and one-half 
cups hot water, cook well, then add one and one-half 
cups sugar, two teaspoons lemon juice and a little 
nutmecf. 



SAUCES. 59 

Raspberry Foam. One cup mashed raspberries, one 
cup sugar and white of one egg. Use strawberries if 
you like. 

Wine. Wet one tablespoon corn starch in cold 
water, stir in one cup boiling water; cook ten minutes. 
Rub one-fourth cup butter with one cup sugar, then 
add one well beaten egg, one saltspoon grated nutmeg 
and one-half cup wine, and add to the hot corn starch, 
stirring until well mixed. 

For Whipped Cream. One tablespoon gelatine, dis- 
solved and flavored, can be stirred into cream, and will 
give a little more body to it. 

Foaming Sauce. Beat one-half cup butter to a 
cream, add one cup granulated sugar and stir until it 
is white and foaming. Just before serving, pour on it 
one cup boiling water and stir a moment. 



FROZEN DISHES. 



"That makes one's mouth water." 

Arrowroot Ice. One large tablespoon arrowroot, 
mixed with cold water; pour upon it very slowly one 
quart boiling water, the juice of four lemons, a little 
of the peel shred very fine, with one pound of sugar. 
Stir it together and freeze. 

Bisque Glace. Two quarts cream, one-half dozen 
macaroons, pounded fine (they must be stale if not 
dried in the stove), pour a little cream over them and 
allow them to stand till they soften. Beat until very 
fine then add the rest of the cream and freeze. It is 
not well to have the macaroons too thick in the 
cream. 

Cafe Parfait. Line a mould with coffee ice cream, 
made with one pint milk, one egg, one scant table- 
spoon flour, one-half teaspoon salt, one cup sugar, 
one-half cup coffee, one pint cream, and freeze; then 
into this lining of cream put a whipped cream mi.xture 
of one pint cream, one cup sugar, one-half cup strong 
coffee chilled and whipped. Pack the mould in ice 
and salt, let stand two hours before serving. 

Caramel, for coloring ice creams, soups, jellies and 
sauces. Melt one cup sugar (brown or white) with one 
tablespoon of water in a frying pan; stir until it be- 
comes a dark brown color; add one cup boiling water; 



FROZEN DISHES. 6l 

simmer ten minutes and bottle when cool; this should 
be kept on hand, as it is useful for many purposes; it 
gives a rich dark color to soups, coffee and jelly, and 
is a delicious flavoring in ice cream, custaids and pud- 
ding sauces. 

Chocolate Cream. Scrape one-fourth pound choco- 
late very fine, put it in a quart of rich milk or cream; 
boil it until dissolved stirring occasionally; thicken 
with one egg. When cream is used the egg may be 
dispensed with. Then freeze. 

Coffee Cream. One-half cup boiled coffee, one-half 
cup sugar, yolks of two eggs; when cool add one pint 
whipped cream, sweetened with one-half cup sugar; stir 
all well ; put in ice cream freezer and pack like ice cream. 
Do not turn crank. Freeze from four to five hours. 

Frozen Pudding. One pint milk, one pint cream, 
one tablespoon gelatine, one egg, one heaping cup 
sugar, one cup figs, one cup raisins, one cup dates; 
soak gelatine in a little of the milk about twenty 
minutes; scald the rest of the milk and cream, and 
when hot pour onto the beaten egg and sugar, and 
then pour the whole on the gelatine and stir until dis- 
solved, then add the fruit. Cool and freeze. 

Ice Cream. Five eggs, one pint milk, two cups 
sugar, little salt. Make custard of above over night. 
In the morning add three pints cold milk, one cup 
sugar, two tablespoons vanilla flavoring. 

Delicious Ice Cream. One quart cream, one pint 
milk, three cups sugar, three tablespoons ground 
coffee; whip the cream until it is of a velvetry con- 
sistency and will pour; put sugar and milk into freezer, 
stir to dissolve, then add the cream, whipped a little 
at a time; steep the coffee ten minutes in two-thirds 



62 FROZEN DISHES. 

cup of boiling water, strain through a cloth. When 
cold add to the mixture and freeze. If vanilla is used 
one tablespoon is enough. 

Ice Cream. One quart milk, six or eight eggs, one 
cup sugar, one pint to one quart cream. Sugar to 
taste. Flavor to taste. Make a boiled custard with 
the milk, sugar and the yolks of the eggs; cook it 
slightly but not curdled; strain, and when cool, add 
the cream and sugar to make it quite sweet, and any 
flavoring desired. If cream can not be obtained beat 
the whites of the eggs till foamy and add them Just 
before freezing. Use one-fourth box gelatine for two 
quarts of custard; soak in one-half cup cold milk and 
dissolve in the boiling custard when taken from the 
fire. If the custard should curdle it will become 
smooth when frozen. Very nice. 

Fruit Ice Cream. Two quarts milk, six eggs, about 
one and one-half pound sugar, one and a half table- 
spoons Bermuda arrowroot. Cook it as a custard. 
When cold flavor with two tablespoons vanilla and 
three wine glasses Sherry wine; then add one pound 
figs, one-quarter pound citron, and other fruits cut 
fine. Freeze like ice cream. 

Strawberry Ice Cream. Sprinkle sugar over the 
berries; mash and rub through a fine sieve. Measure 
the juice and use one pint of juice to two quarts well 
sweetened cream. 

Ice Cream. One quart cream, not too rich, one wine 
glass Sherry wine, one teacup white sugar. Mix thor- 
oughly and freeze. Ripe strawberries or peaches cut 
up, well sweetened, and mixed with cream arc very 
nice frozen. 



FROZEN DISHES. 63 

Lemon Ice. One quart water, juice six lemons, one 
pound sugar, one gill cream (scant one-half cup), 
two teaspoons lemon extract. Mix thoroughly, strain 
and freeze. 

Lemon Sherbet i. Two quarts cold water, two pounds 
sugar, boiled together twenty-five minutes, two table- 
spoons gelatine soaked in some of the water and sugar 
meanwhile. After the water and sugar are taken off 
add the gelatine, strained, and when the whole is quite 
cold put in juice of six lemons; add two or three 
eggs beaten to a froth when partly frozen. 

2. One tablespoon gelatine, one quart water, one 
pint of sugar, juice six lemons. The boiling water 
used in dissolving the gelatine should be part of the 
quart of water. 

3. One quart milk, one pint sugar, the grated rind 
of one lemon, boiled together; cool, and put into the 
freezer; when partly frozen add the juice of five 
lemons and the beaten whites of three eggs. 

Orange Water Ice. Eight oranges, three lemons, 
three pounds loaf sugar, one box gelatine dissolved in 
cold water enough to make one and one-half gallons. 
Extract the oil of rind of oranges and lemons by rub- 
bing the rind with lumps of sugar. 

Velvet Cream. Six eggs, two coffee cups granulated 
sugar; beat eggs and sugar together until very light; 
add two quarts of milk, one quart hot and one quart 
cold; put the cold milk over the eggs and sugar, stir 
well, then add the hot milk; put into milk boiler, stir 
constantly ten minutes till it becomes very thick. 
When cool flavor with vanilla, then freeze. This can 
be improved by adding cream — to every pint of cream 
add one-half teacup sugar. 



64 FROZEN DISHES. 

Walnut Bisque. One quart cream, one cup sugar, 
scalded together. To this add one square of chocolate, 
melted; strain and add one tablespoon vanilla, one cup 
English walnuts, broken. Then freeze. 

Water Ice. One tumbler any kind of preserved 
fruit, raspberries, pineapple or currants are the best, 
because they have more flavor. Strain it through a 
sieve, pouring over it as you strain it three pints of 
water sweetened to taste, and freeze hard and solid, or 
it is not good. If the preserve has not flavor enough 
grated lemon peel or the peel of a Mandarin orange 
will make it good. Brandy peaches are extremely 
good, and the wild grape is very nice as it has such a 
beautiful color. Jelly is just as good as preserve in 
freezing. No gelatine, white of egg or arrowroot is 
needed. 



CAKE. 



" Where honey is, there are the bees." 

" Three rounding teaspoons baking powder are equal 
to one level teaspoon of soda and two full teaspoons 
of cream tartar." — Airs. Lincoln. 

Almond, i. One and a half cups sugar, half cup 
butter, two-thirds cup milk, three cups flour, whites of 
seven eggs, one teaspoon cream tartar, one- half tea- 
spoon soda, small cup almonds blanched and pounded, 
one large teaspoon of almond essence. Flavor frost- 
ing with rose water. 

2. One cup butter, two cups sugar, three and one- 
half cups flour, one-half cup milk, whites eight eggs, 
two teaspoons cream tartar, one teaspoon soda. Flavor 

with almond. 

3. Two cups sugar, one cup butter, whites six eggs, 
one cup milk, three and a half cups flour, heaping tea- 
spoon cream tartar, half teaspoon soda, three tea- 
spoons almond extract, half pound blanched almonds 
on top. Sprinkle with sugar. 

Almond Silver. One coffee cup sugar, one-half cup 
butter, beaten together to a cream; one-half cup milk. 
one-half teaspoon cream tartar, one-quarter teaspoon 
soda. Add whites four eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, 
and two full cups flour. Flavor with almond. 



66 CAKE. 

Almond or White. Whites of six eggs, two cups 
sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, three cups flour, 
one teaspoon cream tartar, half teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in the milk, two teaspoons almond essence. 

Angel. Whites of eleven eggs, one and one-half 
cups granulated sugar, one cupful flour, measured 
after being sifted four times, one teaspoon cream tartar, 
one teaspoon vanilla extract; sift the flour and cream 
tartar together; beat the whites to a stiff froth; beat 
the sugar slowly into the eggs, adding the seasoning 
and flour, stirring quickly and lightly; bake for forty 
minutes in a moderate oven. Do not grease the pan, 
and use a new tin or a bright one. 

Blueberry. One-half cup butter creamed, one cup 
sugar, two eggs, one cup milk, one teaspoon soda, two 
teaspoons cream tartar in one and one-half pints of 
flour; little salt, roll one pint blueberries in two hand- 
fuls of flour. 

Boston Gingerbread. Ore pound sugar, one pound 
butter, two pounds flour, six eggs, one pint molasses, 
one gill of water, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons 
each allspice, cloves and mace, one quart of fruit, 
half pound of citron. Bake in two loaves three hours. 

Boston Puffs. Half pint boiling milk, piece butter 
size of walnut, salt, one and a half cups flour scalded 
together. When cool, beat in three eggs separately. 
Fry in lard, as pancakes, then roll in sugar and cinna- 
mon mixed. 

Bread. Three cups of raised dough, two cups sugar, 
one-half cup butter, one cup raisins, teaspoon soda, 
spice to taste. 



CAKE. 67 

Bride's, i. One-half cup butter, two cups sugar, 
whites five eggs, one cup cold water, three cups flour, 
one teaspoon soda, two cf cream tartar, sift last two 
into the flour. Flavor with almond. Make one sheet, 

2. Whites of four eggs, one cup sugar, half cup 
butter, one-half cup milk, two cups flour, two tea- 
spoons cream tartar, half teaspoon soda. Flavor with 
almond. 

Bridgewater, Two cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, 
three eggs, three and a half cups flour, one cup sweet 
milk, half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar. 

Caramel. Two cups sugar, three-fourths cup butter, 
not quite a cup milk, whites of eight eggs, three 
cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder. Flavor to 
taste. Bake in three layers. Icing: — Two cups sugar, 
butter size of a walnut, not quite a cup of milk. Boil ten 
minutes, cool, then beat until stiff enough to spread 
on the cake. 

Chocolate Cake. One cup butter, two cups sugar, 
three and a half cups flour, five eggs, leaving out 
whites of two, one cup milk, teaspoon cream tartar, 
one-half teaspoon soda. Frosting: — While hot, frost 
with the following: Whites of two eggs, one and a half 
cups sugar, six tablespoons grated chocolate. 

2. One cup sugar, half cup butter, two cups milk, 
two cups flour, two eggs, teaspoon soda; grate two 
squares chocolate, mix with another half cup milk, add 
yolk of one egg, one teaspoon vanilla and sweeten to 
taste. Boil the mixture until soft, add to the other, 
bake three-quarters of an hour. 

3 One cup sugar, one-fourth cup butter, one-fourth 
cup milk, one-half cup grated chocolate, dissolved in 
one-fourth cup boiling water, two eggs, one cup bread 



D» CAKE. 

flour, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon 
soda. Flavor with vanilla and frost with boiled choco- 
late frosting. 

Chocolate Cocoanut. One-half cup butter, one cup 
sugar, one egg and yolks of two, one cup sweet 
milk, two cups flour, one tablespoon baking powder, 
two small cakes of chocolate, one-fourth cup cocoa- 
nut, salt; beat sugar and butter together, add the 
beaten eggs, flour, powder and milk; put cocoanut in 
milk to soften and add melted chocolate last. Bake 
in three layers. Fill with one cup sugar, boil until it 
hairs; beat the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth, 
add one-fourth cake chocolate, one-fourth cup cocoa- 
nut. Flavor with vanilla. Improves by keeping a little 
while. 

Citron. One pound sugar, three-quarters pound 
butter, one pound flour, eight eggs, half cup sour milk, 
one-half teaspoon cream tartar, one teaspoon soda, one 
pound citron. 

Clove. Two cups sugar, one cup butter, two cups 
stoned raisins, chopped fine, one teaspoon cloves, 
two of nutmeg, one and one-half of cinnamon, one 
cup milk, two eggs, one-half teaspoon soda, one tea- 
spoon cream tartar, two and one-half cups flour. This 
cake is better when a week old than when first baked. 

Cocoanut. i. One cup sugar, two cups flour, two 
cups cocoanut, two tablespoons butter, two eggs, tea- 
spoon cream tartar, half teaspoon soda. Soak the 
cocoanut in a cup of milk. 

2. Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, 
four cups flour, teaspoon soda, two of cream tartar, 
whites of scx'cn eggs, one cup grated cocoanut. 
Frosting: — Whites of three eggs, one cup grated 
cocoanut, sugar as for other frosting. 



CAKE. 69 

3- Four cups flour, three cups sugar, one cup butter, 
one cup milk, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half tea- 
spoon soda, five eggs, one cocoanut grated, juice of a 
lemon. 

4. One pound sugar, one-half pound butter, three- 
quarters pound flour, five eggs, one cocoanut grated. 

5- One cup butter, two cups sugar, whites of ten 
eggs, four cups flour, one cup milk, one cup prepared 
cocoanut soaked in the milk, two teaspoons baking 
powder. Bake in sheets in a rather quick oven. If 
you use the fresh cocoanut use two cups of it. 

6. One, Two, Three, Four. One cup butter, two 
cups sugar, three cups flour, four eggs (using the 
whites only), one cup milk, one teaspoon cream tartar 
sifted into the flour, one-half teaspoon soda in the 
milk, one-half of a cocoanut, grated, and stirred in at 
the last. 

Cocoanut Cream. Three eggs, one cup sugar, one 
cup flour, two tablespoons melted butter, three table- 
spoons milk, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half 
teaspoon soda. Filling: — One-half pint milk, one 
tablespoon flour, small pinch salt, three tablespoons 
sugar, yolk of one egg; the white for frosting. Use 
shredded cocoanut in both frosting and filling, and 
flavor with vanilla. 

Cold Water. Two cups sugar, one cup butter, 
one cup cold water, four cups flour, one cup each 
raisins and currants, three eggs, teaspoon soda, half 
teaspoon cream tartar, salt, teaspoon each of all kinds 
spice. Put all together and stir well with the hand until 
smooth. 

Composition. Two cups butter, three cups sugar, one 
cup milk, five cups flour, five eggs, one pound raisins, 
one nutmeg, teaspoon soda. 



70 CAKE. 

Cookies. One-half pound butter, one-half pound 
sugar, two eggs, reserving white of one egg, scant tea- 
spoon soda; roll very thin, lay two or three blanched 
almonds on cake before baking. Wet soda in a drop 
of milk. Flour sufificient to roll. Rich. 

2. One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one-half cuj) 
milk, one egg, flour enough to roll. 

3. One cup butter, two cups sugar, one-half cup 
sour cream, one-third cup milk, three eggs, ore tea- 
spoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar. Nutmeg and 
lemon. 

Cocoanut Cookies. Two cups sugar, one cup butter, 
two cups grated cocoanut, two eggs, one teaspoon bak- 
ing powder. Mix with enough flour to roll very thin. 
Bake in quick oven but not brown. 

Molasses Cookies, i. One egg, one cup molasses, 
■one-half cup butter, one even teaspoon soda; ginger to 
taste, little salt. Flour to roll thin. 

2. To one cup of molasses boiled for a moment, 
add one-half cup shortening; let it melt in, then stir 
thoroughly; when partly cool stir in flour with one 
teaspoon soda sifted in it till it is as hard as possible, 
then set away to cool. After it is perfectly cold roll 
out as thin as possible and bake quickl\'. Put in sail 
and one teasi)6on of ginger when mixing it. 

Soft Molasses Cookies. One cup sugar, one cup 
molasses, one cup sour milk, three-fourths cup short- 
ening, half of which shall be butter or lard; beef drip- 
pings may be used for the remainder; one heaping tea- 
spoon soda, one egg not beaten, salt and ginger to taste ; 
work shortening and sugar together, stir in egg, sift 
soda into flour; mix very stiff, roll out one-half inch 
thick and cut into rounds. 



CAKE. 71 

Rice Flour Cookies. One-half pound sugar, one-half 
pound rice flour, four eggs. 

Sugar Cookies. Beat one cup butter to a cream, 
then add two cups sugar, two eggs, one tablespoon 
milk, four and one-half cups flour, one-half teaspoon 
soda mixed with it; roll thin; bake quick. 

Corn Starch. One cup butter, two cups sugar, one 
cup sweet milk, one cup corn starch, two cups flour, 
whites of seven eggs, teaspoon soda, two teaspoons 
cream tartar; flavor with lemon or almond; frosting 
will improve it. Very nice. 

Cream. Two cups sugar, one cup sour cream, rubbed 
together; two well beaten eggs, teaspoon saleratus dis- 
solved in milk, flour enough to make it a little stiffer 
than common cake; flavor to taste; bake from half to 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Cream Cakes, i. One pint hot water, half pound but- 
ter, three-quarters pound flour, ten eggs, one teaspoon 
soda, dry; boil the water and butter together and stir 
in the flour while boiling; let it cool, then stir in the 
eggs one at a time, without beating. Drop on buttered 
tins and bake in a hot oven. Inside: — One cup flour, 
two cups sugar, one quart milk, four eggs, pinch of 
salt; boil the milk, beat the flour, sugar and eggs to- 
gether, and stir into the milk while boiling. Flavor. 

2. Let one cupful of hot water and one-half cupful 
of butter come to a boil; while boiling stir in one cup 
flour; when cold, stir in three eggs, not beaten. Drop 
by spoonfuls into a buttered tin and bake in a quick 
oven. Filling: — One cup milk, one-half cup sugar, 
bring to a boil and add two tablespoons flour, or one 



72 CAKE. 

tablespoon corn starch, beaten smooth, with a spoon- 
ful milk, one egg, well beaten. When the cream cakes 
are cold, split, but not wholly; lay round and fill. 

Crullers. Three tablespoons sugar, three table- 
spoons lard, three eggs, mix like doughnuts; fry 
quick, turn every second. 

Crumpets. One cup brown sugar, one cup chopped 
raisins, one-half cup butter, one egg, half teaspoon 
soda in a large spoon of milk; all kinds of spice; roll 
thin. 

Currant. Three-quarters of a cup of butter, two 
cups sugar, three cups flour, one cup milk, one and 
one-half cups currants, four eggs, one teaspoon soda, 
two teaspoons cream tartar. 

Dayton. One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups 
flour, five eggs, one-half cup milk, teaspoon cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. This cake is very nice 
spiced a good deal, with raisins and other fruit added. 

Delicate, i. Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, 
whites of six eggs, three-quarters cup sweet milk, 
nearly three cups flour, half teaspoon soda, one tea- 
spoon cream tartar; lemon for flavoring. 

2. One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup 
butter, one-half cup milk, half teaspoon soda, two cups 
flour, into which rub one teaspoon cream tartar. Add 
last the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
Flavor with lemon. 

Delicious, i. Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one 
cup milk, three cups flour, three eggs, half teaspoon 
soda, scant teaspoon cream tartar; stir the butter and 
sugar together, add beaten yolks, then the beaten 
whites. Dissolve the soda in the milk, rub cream tartar 
in the flour and add the last thing. Very nice. 



CAKE. 73 

2. One pound sugar, one-half pound butter, yolks 
of fourteen eggs, one pound flour, two teaspoons creana 
tartar sifted in flour, one cup sweet cream, one tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in a little water. Bake in a quick 
oven. 

Doughnuts. I. Two cups sugar, two cups sour milk, 
two eggs, small piece melted butter, teaspoon soda, 
little salt. Make very soft, better to stand a few days 
before fr}-ing. 

2. Aunt Caroline's. Two quarts flour, two and a 
half cups granulated sugar, two eggs, two-thirds cup 
yeast mixed together; stir teaspoon of cinnamon, tea- 
spoon salt, butter size of a large egg into two-thirds of 
a pint of milk heated. Mix the above ingredients 
with the milk. Rise over night; knead well. 

3. Aunt Grant's. Six heaping tablespoons sugar, 
one of butter, two or three eggs, cup sour milk, half 
teaspoon soda, spice. 

4. One pint sweet milk, one teaspoon soda, two 
cups sugar, one-half cup butter, four eggs, one nut- 
meg, salt, flour enough to roll out. 

Molasses Drop. One cup sugar, one cup molasses, 
one-half cup butter or lard, one cup cold water, one 
egg, one large teaspoon soda, five cups flour. Flavo;r 
with cloves and cinnamon. 

English Walnut. One scant cup butter, two cups 
sugar, three cups flour, one cup milk, four eggs, one 
pound English walnuts, one teaspoon cream tartar, 
half teaspoon soda. Bake in sheets. 

Feather. One and a half cups sugar, three cups 
flour, one-quarter cup butter, three-quarters cup milk, 
two eggs, two teaspoons cream tartar, one teaspoon 
soda, salt, flavor with lemon. 



74 CAKE. 

Fig. Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup 
milk, whites five eggs, beaten stiff, three cups flour, 
two teaspoons baking powder; about one cup figs cut 
up quite fine and sifted over with flour. Soaking them 
over night in wine or brandy improves them. Nice. 

Filling for a Layer Cake. Grate one larg-, tart 
apple, one lemon grated and the juice squeezed out, 
one egg, one cup sugar. Let this boil for five minutes; 
stir it constantly. Eat while fresh. 

French. Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one 
cup milk, three cups flour, two teaspoons cream tartar, 
one teaspoon soda dissolved in milk. Beat the sugar, 
butter, cream tartar and yolks together, whites sepa- 
rately, four eggs. 

French Loaf. One pound sugar, half pound butter, 
two eggs, half pint milk, one pound flour, one tea-spoon 
soda, one pound raisins, one cup currants, one nutmeg, 
citron, wine-glass of brandy. 

Fruit. One pound citron, two pounds currants, two 
pounds raisins, one pound flour, one pound butter, one 
pound sugar, nine eggs, half teaspoon soda, half cup 
molasses, teaspoon each, cloves, nutmeg, mace, cinna- 
mon and allspice, and two of lemon. 

2. Five eggs, two cups brown sugar, one-half cup 
molasses, one and a half cups butter, three and a half 
cups flour, three-quarters pound citron, one and a half 
pounds currants, same of raisins, spice of all kinds. 
Bake three or four hours very slowly. 

3. One and one-half pounds brown sugar, one 
pound butter (or two cups melted), one pound flour (or 
one quart), four pounds raisins chopped, three pounds 



CAKE. 75 

currants, one pound citron, chopped or sliced, one- 
half pound chopped almonds, ten eggs, three table- 
spoons cassia, three tablespoons cloves, two table- 
spoons mace, three nutmegs, two ounces vanilla or 
part rose extract, teaspoon soda dissolved in one-half 
cup coffee, brandy or butter. Add the beaten whites 
of the eggs the last thing. Steam four hours and dry in 
the oven for twent}- minutes. It will keep perfectly 
for an indefinite time if not eaten. 

German. One cup butter, two cups sugar, three and a 
half cups flour, half teaspoon soda, one of cream tartar, 
half cup milk, four eggs. Drop into buttered tins, 
sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. 

Gingerbread, i. Sugar. Six cups flour, two cups 
sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, teaspoon soda. 
Roll thin. 

2. Hard Sugar. Three quarters pound sugar, same 
of butter, one and a half pounds flour, four eggs, 
ginger, small teaspoon soda. Roll very thin and bake 
on tin sheets. 

3. Maggie's. One cup molasses, one-half cup butter 
and lard mixed, two-thirds cup sour milk, teaspoon 
soda, teaspoon ginger, five coffee cups flour. Mi.x as 
soft as you can roll. 

4. Molasses. One cup molasses, one large table- 
spoon lard, teaspoon salt, teaspoon ginger, teaspoon 
soda dissolved in one-half cup of cold water, three 
scant cups flour. 

5. One cup molasses, butter size of an e^^, one 
■egg, one-half cup sour milk, one and one-half cups 



76 CAKE. 

flour, one teaspoon soda, cloves, ginger. Beat molasses, 
egg and butter together, add flour gradually, alternat- 
ing with the milk. 

6. Simplest and Best. One cup molasses, one heaping 
tablespoon of shortening (butter and lard), one tea- 
spoon salt, a little of all kinds spices, one teaspoon 
soda in one-half cup hot coffee. Flour for a soft batter. 

Ginger. One cup molasses, one cup brown sugar, 
three-fourths cup lard or butter, three cups flour, one 
cup boiling water, two teaspoons soda, two eggs. Spice 
to taste. Boil molasses, sugar, flour and butter 
together, then add hot water and soda, lastly the eggs. 
Bake in a cool oven. 

Ginger Puffs. One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one 
cup water, one-half cup butter, one egg, five cups flour, 
tablespoon soda, tablespoon ginger and cinnamon. 
Drop on tins and bake. 

Ginger Snaps. One cup butter, one cup sugar, two 
cups molasses, one cup warm water, two teaspoons soda, 
four tablespoons ginger, roll thin, bake in hot oven. 

2. One and a half pounds flour, one-half pound 
lard, one pint molasses, three teaspoons soda, dis- 
solved in a little water, two tablespoons ginger, little 
salt. Rub flour and lard together, roll thin, cut in 
squares. 

Gold. I. Yolks of eight eggs, one tablespoon butter, 
four cups flour, one cup sweet milk, two cups sugar, 
teaspoon soda, two of cream tartar. Flavor with lemon. 

2. One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, 
one cup sweet milk, one teaspoon cream tartar, one- 
half teaspoon soda, yolks six eggs and one whole egg; 
flavor with lemon. Use whites of two eggs for frosting. 



CAKE. 17 

Golden. Yolks of eight eggs, one cup sugar, two 
cups flour, one-half cup butter, one -half cup milk, one 
teaspoon cream tartar, half teaspoon soda. Flavor 
with vanilla. 

Graham. One half cup butter, one and one-half 
cups sugar, one cup milk, three and a half cups pastry 
flour, one and one-half cups raisins stoned and chopped, 
one &^^, one teaspoon soda, nutmeg. Sift sugar over 
the top and bake an hour and a half in a moderate o\&\\. 

Harrison. Two cups molasses, two cups butter, one 
cup milk, five cups flour, four eggs, two pounds 
chopped raisins, teaspoon soda. Spice to taste. 

Henry. One-half cup of butter, two cups sugar, one 
cup milk, three and a half cups flour, three eggs, one 
teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, one cup 
chopped walnuts, one cup currants. Flavor with lemon. 

Hartford Election. Two and a half pounds butter, 
three pounds sugar, four and a half pounds flour, three 
pounds raisins, four eggs, one pint yeast, one quart 
milk, mix the butter and sugar as for pound cake; take 
one-half thus beaten and mix with flour, milk and yeast, 
and set it to rise over night. In the morning add the 
other half of sugar and butter, eggs, raisins and spices 
and let it rise again. Put in pans and let stand an hour 
before baking. 

Hermits. One cup butter, one and a half cups sugar, 
one cup raisins, three eggs, teaspoon soda dissolved in 
a little milk, all kinds spice, flour to roll out. 

Hickory-Nut. One cup butter, four cups flour, three 
cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, four eggs, teaspoon 
soda, one pint hickory nut meat, half pint raisins. 



78 CAKE. 

Ice Cream. Two cups coffee A sugar, one scant cup 
butter (melted just enough to make it soft), one cup 
milk, whites of eight eggs, three cups flour, three heap- 
ing teaspoons baking powder; sift your flour, roll your 
sugar; cream the sugar and butter, then add milk; 
then add one-third of eggs and one cup flour, then 
another one-third of eggs and cup flour, then last one- 
third eggs and last cup flour, then add baking powder 
last of all. After the dough is thoroughly mixed, if 
it runs off the spoon add another one-half cup flour. 
Grease your pans well, put two layers of paper in the 
bottom of the pans. Rake in three layers. When 
nearly cold trim all the brown part off, then ice. 
Icing: — Whites of three eggs, well beaten, nearly three 
cups powdered sugar (or one pound), three-fourths 
cup water; mix sugar and water, boil until the syrup 
will collect in the bottom of a cup of cold water; have 
the eggs in a dish and pour the hot syrup upon them 
slowly; stir constantly until nearly cold then add a 
teaspoon of vanilla. If the icing seems too hard add 
a little hot water, and if it sticks to the knife dip the 
knife in hot water. Very nice. 

Imperial. One pound butter, one pound sugar, one 
pound chopped raisins, one-quarter pound citron, one 
pound flour, half pound blanched almonds put in 
w'hole, eight eggs, mace, and one glass of wine. 

Jelly. Two and one-half cups sugar, one cup butter, 
one cup milk, four cups flour, three eggs, one teaspoon 
cream tartar, half teaspoon soda. 

Jumbles. Three cups butter, three cups sugar, six 
eggs, one-third cup milk, half teaspoon soda, flour 
to roll easily. Scatter on sugar, cut in fancy shapes. 
This makes many and wmII keep well. Nice. 



CAKE. 79 

2. Soft. Two cups sugar, one cup butter, three 
eggs, two-thirds cup sour milk, half teaspoon soda, 
four heaping cupfuls flour. Drop them on a tin with 
a spoon some distance apart; if too thin add a little 
more flour. 

Julia. One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half 
cup sweet milk, two eggs, two cups flour, teaspoon 
cream tartar, half teaspoon soda, vanilla. 

Lady. One-half cup butter creamed, add giadually 
one cup sugar, one-half cup milk, one-half cup corn 
starch, one cup flour, one even teaspoon baking powder, 
whites of four eggs. Flavor with almond and a drop of 
lemon. 

Lemon Snaps. One cup butter, two cups sugar, one- 
third cup milk, three eggs, teaspoon soda, two tea- 
spoons lemon. 

Magic. One cup sugar, half cup butter, one and a 
half cups flour, three eggs, three tablespoons milk, 
half teaspoon soda, teaspoon cream tartar. Flavor 
with vanilla or nutmeg. 

Marble. One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one- 
half cup milk, one and three-fourths cups pastry flour, 
whites of four eggs, one-half teaspoon cream tartar, 
one-fourth teaspoon soda. In another dish mix one- 
half cup molasses, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, 
two and one-half cups flour, one-fourth cup milk, yolks 
of four eggs, one teaspoon cinnamon, three-fourths 
teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon nutmeg, little mace, one- 
half teaspoon cream tartar, one-fourth teaspoon soda; 
put spices and cream tartar and soda in the flour; put 
a layer of dark mixture into the pan, then one of the 
light and alternate until all is used. Draw a fork 
through the sides and middle of the whole once. 



so CAKE. 

Marbled Chocolate. One cup butter, two cups pow- 
dered sugar, three cups flour, four eggs, one cup sweet 
nilk, half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream 
tartar. After this is well mixed take out one and one- 
half cups of it and mix with it enough chocolate 
previously melted in a few drops of hot water to give 
a dark color, then put in pans in separate layers and 
bake half an hour. 

Marshall. Two and a half cups sugar, one cup 
butter, one cup milk, four cups flour, four eggs, tea- 
spoon soda and one of cream tartar; bake in two 
sheets plain; for the third sheet, add two tablespoons 
molasses, one cup raisins, one cup currants, one-quarter 
pound citron, all kinds spices. Wet this sheet with the 
white of an egg and place between the light ones. 

Molasses, i. One cup molasses, two cups sugar, 
one-half cup butter or lard, teaspoon soda, one cup 
boiling water, salt and ginger. To be made soft and 
dropped from the spoon. 

2. One pint molasses, six ounces butter, three well 
beaten eggs, one-half pint milk, one teaspoon soda; 
warm molasses enough to melt butter, dissolve soda in 
milk, mix, add eggs, thicken with flour to the consist- 
ency of pound cake. Flavor with lemon. 

3. Drop. One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one cup 
warm water, teaspoon soda, flour enough to drop from 
a spoon', one tablespoon butter. 

4. Mrs. Clark's. One cupsugar, one-half cup butter, 
two eggs, teaspoon cream tartar, half teaspoon soda, 
two cups flour, half cup milk. 

Mother Hubbard. One and one-half cups sugar, one 
cup butter, two cups flour, five eggs, one-half teaspoon 
baking powder, cream butter and add flour a little at a 



CAKE. 81 

time, cream together; beat eggs and sugar very lightly; 
put baking powder in the flour, one teaspoon vanilla. 
It is nice with a little mace. 

Nice. One and one-half cups butter, one cup sugar, 
half cup milk, two cups flour, three eggs, teaspoon 
cream tartar, half teaspoon soda; beat the whites sep- 
arately and add just before going into the oven. Bake 
thirty minutes. 

Nut. One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup milk, 
three and one half cups flour, three eggs, one-half tea- 
spoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar, one pound Eng- 
lish walnuts, one pound stoned raisins. 

2. Cream. Three-fourths cup butter, two cups 
sugar, three and one-fourth cups flour, three even tea- 
spoons baking powder, one cup milk, five eggs; bake 
in jelly cake tins. Make the filling as follows: — 
Whites of two eggs, one and one-half cups powdered 
sugar; put the eggs in a bowl, sprinkle in one tablespoon 
sugar; beat with a wire whisk five minutes, add the 
rest of the sugar gradually, a tablespoon at a time; 
when all is added and it is smooth and creamy, flavor 
and stir in three-fourths cup nuts chopped fine. Spread 
this icing between the layers; sprinkle each layer with 
nuts. Ice the top with plain icing and lay on whole 
or half nuts over all. 

3. Golden. Cream three-fourths cup butter and one 
and one-half cups sugar together, add yolks of eight 
eggs, one whole egg beaten till thick, one-half cup 
milk, two cups of flour sifted with one and one-half 
teaspoons cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, two 
teaspoons brandy, one cup chopped nuts slightly 
floured. Bake in individual pans; frost with golden 



82 CAKE. 

frosting made as follows: — One yolk beaten slightly, 
one teaspoon wine; confectioners' sugar to make it 
stiff enough to spread. 

Orange. Cream three-fourths cup butter, add slowly 
two cups sugar, and cream together; into three cups 
sifted pastry flour mix two teaspoons baking powder; 
add one tablespoon of the prepared flour to the butter 
and sugar, then add four eggs, one at a time without 
first beating, with a tablespoon of the flour before 
breaking in each egg; then add the remainder of the 
flour alternating with one cupful of milk. Flavor 
with orange. Bake about forty minutes in a moderate 
oven. Orange Frosting: — Yolk of one egg, extract 
of orange, enough confectioners' sugar to make it 
thick enough to spread. 

Plain Raisin. One-half cup molasses, one cup 
sugar, one half cup butter, one-half cup sour milk, tea- 
spoon soda, two eggs; three cups flour. Raisins and 
spice. 

Piccolomini. Three cups sugar, one cup butter, rub 
to a cream; beat five eggs very light, and stir grad- 
ually into the mixture together with four full cups 
flour and one of sweet milk. Dissolve in a little warm 
water half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar, 
add nutmeg and wine glass rose water. 

Pound. Rub one pound sugar and three-quarters 
pound butter to a cream, add the well beaten yolks 
of ten eggs, then the whites, and stir in gradually a 
pound of sifted flour. 

Quick Cream Pie. Beat the whites of two eggs with 
one-half cup sugar, add the beaten yolks, tw^o-thirds 
cup flour, one-half teaspoon cream tartar, one-fourth 
teaspoon soda (or one teaspoon baking powder). 



CAKE. 83 

Bake in a round tin. Inside: — One-half pint milk, 
one egg, one-half cup sugar, one-fourth cup flour; 
cook until thick and flavor as preferred. 

Raised Loaf. One cup sugar (heaping), one-half 
cup butter, one egg, small piece of soda dissolved in a 
teaspoon of warm water, mace, cinnamon and nutmeg, 
two cups raised bread dough, one cup stoned raisins. 
Let it rise three hours before baking. 

Rice Flour. One cup butter, one cup sugar, five 
eggs, two cups rice flour. 

Rockland. One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup 
milk, five eggs, half teaspoon soda, teaspoon cream 
tartar, four cups flour. Makes two loaves. 

Sally Jewett. Three-quarters pound sugar, one- 
half pound butter, one cup molasses, one cup milk, 
five eggs, one pound flour, heaping teaspoon soda, one 
pound raisins, two tablespoons each cloves and cinna- 
mon, one nutmeg, currants, citron, wine glass brandy. 

Silver. Two cups of sugar, two and one-half cups 
flour, one-half cup butter, three-quarters cup milk, 
whites of eight eggs, teaspoon cream tartar, half tea- 
spoon soda. Almond essence and chocolate frosting. 

2. One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup 
butter, three-fourths cup sweet milk, two cups flour, 
one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, 
whites of four eggs, well beaten; flavor with vanilla; 
bake in a slow oven. 

Snow. One pound of sugar, three-quarters pound 
butter, one pound flour, whites of sixteen eggs, lemon 
or rose water. 

Spice. One cup butter, one and a half cups sugar, 
two-thirds cup milk, three eggs, three cups flour, 



»4 CAKE. 

one teaspoon each kind of spice, one cup raisins, one 
teaspoon soda, citron and currants if you choose, 
l^ake in roll pans. 

Sponge. One cup sugar, one cup flour, four eggs, 
half teaspoon soda sifted in dry. 

2. Three cups sugar, six eggs, one cup cold water, 
little salt, four cups flour, teaspoon soda, two tea- 
spoons cream tartar; beat the yolks and stir into sugar 
until smooth; then add the whites beaten light, then 
cold water with soda, then flour with cream tartar, two 
teaspoons lemon put in last. 

3. Four eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour; beat 
the whites stiff, then the sugar must be well beaten into 
the whites, add next the yolks previously well beaten, 
and just as you are ready to put into the oven, stir the 
flour in. Very nice. 

4. Eight eggs, scant two cups flour, one teaspoon 
mace, beat whites and yolks separately, then together, 
then stir in two cups sugar, and then flour. Bake in 
quick oven. Nice. 

5. Beat eight eggs very light, add one pound sugar, 
twelve ounces flour. Flavor with lemon or alniond. 
Drop them on tins with teaspoon, sift sugar over them 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Trifles. One egg beaten thoroughly, one teaspoon 
salt, all the flour that can be kneaded in. Roll as thin 
as paper. Fry in hot lard. 

Walnut. One cup butter, two cups sugar, three and 
a half cups flour, two-thirds cup milk, three eggs, one 
cup chopped raisins, one cup walnuts, half teaspoon 
soda. 

Washington. One pound brown sugar, one-half 
pound butter, four eggs (well beaten), one cup milk 



CAKE. 85 

(medium size cup), one pound flour sifted twice, one 
pound fruit mixed with flour, currants, raisins and 
citron, one wine glass wine, one nutmeg, teaspoon cin- 
namon, two tablespoons baking powder. Makes one 
large cake. 

White. Whites of eight eggs, two cups sugar, one- 
half cup butter, three-quarters cup milk, three cups 
flour, one teaspoon cream tartar, half teaspoon soda. 
Bake in layers, spread each with icing and grated 
cocoanut, and when put together co\er the whole with 
the icing and cocoanut. 

2. One cup butter, two cups sugar, three and one- 
half cups flour, whites of five eggs, one cup milk, tea- 
spoon cream tartar, half teaspoon soda. Flavor with 
almond. 

White Mountain. One cup butter, two cups sugar, 
four eggs, three and a half cups flour, two-thirds cup 
milk, teaspoon cream tartar, half teaspoon soda, tea- 
spoon extract of lemon. Bake in four thin sheets and 
when done put a la}'er of frosting between each sheet. 

Boiled Icing. One cup granulated sugar, one-third 
cup boiling water, white of one egg, one salt- 
spoon cream tartar; boil the sugar and water without 
stirring, until the syrup taken up on skewer will 
" thread " or " rope; " when it is nearly at that point, 
beat the egg stiff, add the cream tartar, and pour the 
boiling syrup over the egg in a fine stream, beating 
well, when it thickens and is perfectly smooth. 

Caramel Frosting, i. One cup sugar, one-half cup 
milk; flavor to taste; boil hard just six minutes. 

2. Chocolate. Add one square of chocolate to the 
caramel frosting and boil a little longer. Flavor with 
vanilla. 



86 CAKE. 

Chocolate Frosting, i. One cup milk, two cups 
sugar, one strip chocolate; mix and boil together 
eight minutes; then beat till thick enough to spread. 

2. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, add 
one and a one-half cups sugar, four tablespoons of 
chocolate. 

Cocoanut Frosting. Beat the whites of five eggs to 
a stiff froth, add two cups of prepared cocoanut, and 
powdered sugar enough to make it sufficiently stiff to 
spread with a knife. Flavor with extract lemon, 
vanilla or almond. After spreading the frosting upon 
the cake, sprinkle a little dry cocoanut over it. 



PICKLES. 



" Peter Piper pickeil a peck ot pickled peppers." 

Bordeaux Sauce. Two gallons cabbage cut coarse, 
one gallon cut green tomatoes, one-half dozen onions 
sliced, two heads of cauliflower, broken in pieces, two 
heads celery, cut fine, eight green peppers cut in small 
pieces, one ounce whole allspice, one ounce whole 
black pepper, one-half ounce whole cloves, four table- 
spoons ground mustard, one pound sugar, one and one- 
half gills of salt, vinegar to not quite cover the whole. 
Mix, and boil slowly two hours. 

Chili Sauce. Forty-eight ripe tomatoes, ten pep- 
pers, two large onions, two quarts vinegar, four table- 
spoons salt, two teaspoons each cloves, cinnamon, nut- 
meg and allspice, one cup sugar. Slice the tomatoes, 
chop peppers and onions together, add vinegar and 
spices, and boil until thick enough. Mustard and 
curry powder improves this. 

2. Twelve ripe tomatoes, four green peppers, one 
large onion, one cup strong vinegar, tablespoon salt, 
three of sugar, one teaspoon each of all kinds spice. 
Cook till soft. 

Chow-Chow. Two gallons green tomatoes, two 
white onions, one-half dozen green peppers, one dozen 
cucumbers, two heads cabbage, all chopped fine; let 
this stand over night with a teacup of salt sprinkled 
over it; in the morning drain off the brine, and season 
with one tablespoon of celery seed, one ounce 
turmeric, one-half teaspoon cayenne pepper, one cup 



go PICKLES. 

brown sugar, one ounce cinnamon, one ounce allspice, 
one ounce black pepper, one-fourth ounce cloves, 
vinegar enough to cover. Boil one-half hour. 

Cauliflower. Six heads cauliflowers, two and one- 
half quarts vinegar, two and one-half cups brown 
sugar, three eggs, one-half bottle French mustard, one 
tablespoon ginger, few garlics, about four, one green 
pepper, one-fourth teaspoon cayenne pepper, butter 
size of half an egg, one-half ounce turmeric; beat 
well together the egg, sugar, mustard, ginger and tur- 
meric, then boil all the ingredients in the vinegar ten 
minutes; boil cauliflower in salt water until tender; 
then place cauliflower in jar and pour vinegar hot over 
it. Cut the cauliflower in pieces of convenient size. 

Cucumber. Sprinkle small cucumbers with salt, 
then pour vinegar over them and let them soak twent}'- 
four hours; scald in hot vinegar and put in jars when 
cold. If you wish put various spices, done up in a little 
bag in the vinegar. 

Pure Grape. Four quarts grapes, four pounds sugar, 
one-half pint vinegar, one tablespoon ground cloves; 
squeeze the pulp from the skins, put the pulp in a 
kettle with water enough to keep from scorching, and 
boil until >'ou can easily separate the seeds by rubbing 
through a coarse sieve; then put skins, pulp and juice 
together and boil fifteen minutes. 

Hodge Podge. Two quarts chopped green tomatoes, 
two of onions, two green peppers, mix together; to 
the six quarts add one pint brown mustard seed, one 
cup salt; after standing three or four days, add good 
cider vinegar sufficient to cover it. Keep in dry place. 

Mustard. Two quarts onions, two quarts pickled 
cucumbers, two quarts green tomatoes, two quarts red 



PICKLES. 9^ 

and green peppers, two heads of cauliflower, two or 
three heads of celery, chop and let stand in brine over 
night, then drain and scald in vinegar with apiece of 
alum size of a filbert; have only vinegar enough to 
cover the pickle. Cook until tender, draw off the 
vinegar. Dressing:— One-fourth pound ground mus- 
tard, one-half ounce turmeric, one-half ounce celery 
seed, two cups sugar, one cup flour; stir into one gallon 
of boiling vinegar, let stand over the fire about three 
minutes, stirring constantly. Pour over the pickle 
while hot and bottle when cold. 

Ohio Catsup. Take three dozen ripe cucumbers, 
eight white onions, peel them and chop as fine as possi- 
ble; sprinkle over them one-half cup salt; put the 
whole into a sieve ard let them drain eight hours; 
take one cup of mustard seed, one-half cup of pepper 
and mix together; put in a jar and cover with strong 
vinegar. Close tight, and let it stand three or four 
days, when it will be ready for use. 

Pickle for Beef. Four gallons of water, five pounds 
salt, one and one-half ounces of saltpetre, two large 
spoons soda, two teacups molasses. Boil and skim, 
pour over beef when cold. 

Pickle for Butter. Two quarts of salt, one quart 
sugar, one tablespoon saltpetre, two to four quarts of 
boiling water. 

Pickle for Hams. One quart of salt, one pint mo- 
lasses, one pound sugar, two ounces saltpetre. Hams 
may be kept in this pickle three or four weeks before 
smoking. 

Pickle for Pork. Two quarts of salt, three pints 
molasses; four ounces saltpetre, two ounces cloves, ten 
quarts water. 



92 PICKLES. 

Pickled Eggs. Boil one dozen of fresh eggs fifteen 
minutes, put them in cold water to cool, take off the 
shells and place them in a jar, cover them with good 
vinegar. These are nice for picnics. 

Pickled Lemons. One dozen lemons, one-half cup 
salt, one onion cut fine, one nutmeg grated, one table- 
spoon allspice, one-half tablespoon ground cloves, 
one-half tablespoon ginger, one-half teaspoon cayenne 
pepper, one teacup white mustard seed, three teaspoons 
brown sugar. Score the lemons, put them into stone 
jars, alternating with the ingredients. Cover the whole 
with cider vinegar, put the jars into kettles of boiling 
water; boil four hours, then stop tightly, let them 
stand three months before using. 

Pickled Oysters. Simmer the oysters in their own 
liquor; take out the o}'Sters and into the liquor put 
pepper and salt, cloves and nutmeg to taste, boil up 
once and pour over the oysters. Cooked early in the 
morning, ready for dinner. Keep two or three days. 

Pickled Peaches, i. Seven pounds of peeled peaches, 
three and a half pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, cloves 
or root ginger for spice; boil and add fruit until 
scalded, then put in jars and pour the scalding liquor 
on and cover tightly. 

2. To every quart of vinegar add one pound sugar; 
scald and pour hot over the peaches for six successive 
mornings. 

Pickled Tongue. Take a corned beef tongue and 
boil until tender, take off the skin, put it into a stone 
basin or jar and cover it with good cider vnnegar, add 
a few allspice, whole peppers and cloves, not more 
than one dozen of each. 



PICKLES, 93 

Sweet Ripe Cucumber. Pare and slice ripe cucum- 
bers and let them stand over night in very salt water. 
Take one gallon vinegar, one pound of brown sugar 
and spice for a syrup; use whole spice and let them 
remain; when the syrup is boiling put in the cucum- 
bers, boil till done. This looks and tastes very nice. 
Sweet Ripe Tomato. Seven pounds ripe tomatoes, 
three and one-half pounds sugar, one quart vinegar; 
spices — cloves, allspice and cinnamon; put the sugar 
and vinegar over the fire till melted; peel the tomatoes 
and put them in syrup, bags of cloves, allspice and cin- 
namon, each bag to be one and one-half inches square; 
when tomatoes are boiled skim them out and boil the 
syrup till quite thick. (Very nice). 

Spiced Currants. Five pounds currants, four pounds 
brown sugar, one pint vinegar, two tablespoons cloves, 
two of cinnamon. Boil slowly two hours. 

Sweet Piccalilli. Take tomatoes just turning, wash, 
and without paring, slice thick, put into a crock with 
salt, sprinkled between the layers and let stand over 
night. In the morning drain, and make a rich syrup 
of vinegar, sugar and spice, cinnamon, little mace and 
cloves; put a few of the tomatoes into the syrup and 
let them simmer slowly, take out before they are 
cooked to pieces and put into a crock, continue in this 
way until all are used. If the syrup gets too thin 
make fresh, pour over the tomatoes and cover tight. 

Sweet Pickled Pears. One quart vinegar, three 
pounds brown sugar to six pounds pears; after the 
pears are peeled put them into cold water, and let 
them stand awhile, then steam until done; then stick 
three cloves in each pear. Boil syrup and drop the 
pears in. 



94 PICKLES. 

Sweet Tomato. One peck green tomatoes, sprinkle 
on a little salt and let them stand over night, then 
strain off the water, put them in a kettle with enough 
vinegar to cover them, add half pound or quarter 
pound sugar, two cups white mustard seed, one-half 
cloves, one cup allspice and a little mace put in a bag. 
Six green peppers, six onions, cook three hours over a 
slow fire. 

2. Seven pounds tomatoes, three pounds sugar, one 
quart vinegar, one ounce each cloves and cinnamon; 
boil three hours. Never ferments. 

3. To one-half bushel green tomatoes (sliced), 
add one dozen large onions (sliced); scatter over the 
mixture one pound salt, and let it stand all night; in 
the morning drain off the brine; in four quarts water 
and two quarts of vinegar, cook tomatoes and onions 
together fifteen minutes; drain them again (this takes 
away the strong, rank flavor). Now to five quarts 
vinegar add four pounds brown sugar, four even table- 
spoons ground allspice and the same quantity of 
cloves, cinnamon, ginger and mustard, and one dessert- 
spoon cayenne pepper; scald this mixture, and add 
the tomatoes, &c., letting all cook together ten or fif- 
teen minutes just before removing from the fire. Stir 
in half pound whole white mustard seed. Very nice. 

Tomato. Cut one peck green tomatoes in slices, and 
put in a stone jar, cover with one pint molasses; skim 
when it ferments, and your pickles are ready for use. 

Tomato Ketchup. Take one bushel ripe tomatoes 
and five onions, boil until soft, squeeze through hair 
sieve, add one-half pint salt, one-quarter pound all- 
spice, two ounces cloves, two ounces cayenne pepper, 
two tablespoons black pepper, two quarts vinegar; 
mix and boil three hours. This will fill twelve bottles. 



JELLIES. 



" We must take the current when it serves, 
Or lose our ventures." 

The surest way to clear jelly is to let the juice drain 
through a flannel bag without squeezing it. 

The best and easiest way to cover jellies is to pour 
melted paraffine over them when they are quite cold. 
This hardens at once, when a piece of brown paper 
may be tied over the glass to keep out the dust. The 
cake of parafflne may be easily lifted off when the 
jelly is used, and if washed and put away can be 
melted and used another year. Paraffine is a clear 
white wax which is absolutely tasteless. 

In making crabapple jelly put in the juice of one or 
more lemons according to the quantity so there will 
be an acid flavor, but not enough to taste of the lemon. 

Apple. I. Pare and cut into slices eighteen large- 
acid apples, boil them in as much water as will cover 
them, when quite soft dip a coarse cloth into hot 
water, wring dry, and strain the apples through it. To 
one pint juice allow fourteen ounces sugar, add the 
peel of one lemon. Boil twenty minutes, take out the 
peel and put in jars. 

2. One-half peck good tart apples, three pints 
water, boil until done enough to run a straw through 
them, then drain through a sieve; three-quarters pound 
sugar to one pint of juice. Boil twenty minutes. 



96 JELLIES. 

Cider. One-half box gelatine with cold water suffi- 
cient to cover it, let it stand one hour, then add the 
grated rind and juice of one lemon, one-half pint or 
little more sugar, two-thirds pint of cider, pint and 
one-half boiling water, then strain into moulds. 

Catawba Grape. Take fresh grapes, wash and pick 
from stems; put into porcelain kettle with enough 
water to keep from burning. Cook until seeds are 
clear. Drain through a jelly bag. To each pint of 
juice add one pint sugar. Boil till it strings. 

Currant. Put the currants in a large preserving 
kettle without stemming them, and let them heat 
slowly; cook gently with frequent stirring, until fruit 
is well broken, will take perhaps three hours; squeeze 
them through a flannel bag; allow pound sugar to 
each pint ot juice; return juice to the fire and boil 
twenty minutes, skimming frequently; then put in the 
sugar slowly, previously heated in the oven, so it will 
not stop the jelly from boiling; let the jelly come to 
a good boil, take it up and pour into glasses. 

Orange. Dissolve one-half cup gelatine in one cup 
cold water; after standing one-half hour add a cup 
boiling water; drain this into the juice of twelve 
oranges, juice and grated rind of two lemons; sweeten 
with about two cups sugar. Strain. 

Wine. I. One box gelatine, one and one-half pints 
cold water, one-half pint good Sherry or Madeira 
wine, the peel of three lemons and their juice, nearly 
one pint white sugar, the beaten whites of three eggs, 
and the shells crushed; put it on the stove and stir 
very often, lest the gelatine should scorch; let it boil 
about five or ten minutes, then take scum and put it in 
your strainer to serve as a filterer. Pour in the jelly, 



JELLIES. 97 

and as fast as it runs out, pour back again until it is as 
clear as you wish. 

2. One pint boiling water poured on one-third box 
gelatine, one cup sugar, one cup wine, one lemon, 
strain through muslin. 

To Can Pineapples. Use quarter pound sugar to a 
pound of the cut pineapple; cut the pineapple in little 
squares or diamonds, put the sugar over it and let it 
stand over night; then pour off the juice, boil it till it 
thickens a little, pour over the fruit and boil it till the 
pineapple is tender. 

Sweet Apple Preserve. Twelve pounds sweet ap- 
ples, quartered and cored, six pounds sugar, one quart 
good vinegar. Dissolve sugar and vinegar, and cook 
apples in the syrup till done. 



BEVERAGES. 



"At one's cups." 

Chocolate. One-eighth of a pound Baker's cooking 
chocolate dissolved in hot water, cook until it thickens; 
add one-third cup sugar, one quart boiling milk, let it 
boil slowly for five minutes, beating it as a scum will 
form; this is enough for a company of eight people at 
an afternoon tea. 

Cream Soda. Three pounds white sugar, two ounces 
tartaric acid, three pints water, juice of one lemon. 
Boil five minutes, when nearly cold add the beaten 
whites three eggs, half cup flour mixed with the eggs, 
and half an ounce of checkerberry. 

Currant Shrub. Put the currants in a porcelain 
kettle to heat, in order to extract the juice; to each 
pint juice add three-quarters pound white sugar; cook 
long enough to dissolve the sugar thoroughly; bottle 
and seal tight. This is a delicious drink when used 
with equal quantity of ice water. 

Iced Tea. Early in the morning pour cold water on 
the tea, and let it stand all day; put in ice when ready 
to serve. 

Lemonade for Picnics. Take a glass can of lemon 
juice and sugar, remembering that the juice of half a 
large lemon and three teaspoons sugar make a perfect 
glass of lemonade. 



BEVERAGES. 99 

2. Lemonade. A pleasant and healthy drink is made 
by putting the juice of one lemon in a glass of water, 
without sugar. This is good for billiousness. 

3. Pineapple. Boil one cup sugar in one pint water 
ten minutes, cool slightly, and add one can grated 
pineapple and juice of three lemons; cool just before 
serving, add one quart ice water. 

Mead. i. Three pounds white sugar, five gills molasses, 
three pints water, four ounces tartaric acid, one-half 
ounce sassafras, same of checkerberry; boil and bottle. 

2. Two pounds and one-half white sugar, two 
ounces tartaric acid, whites three eggs beaten to a 
froth, two quarts boiling water poured on the mixture; 
flavor with sassafras or lemon; cool and bottle. Three 
or four tablespoons to a tumbler filled two-thirds with 
water, stir in quarter teaspoon of soda. Drink quick. 

Pop Beer. One pound sugar, one ounce cream 
tartar, ounce ginger, juice of two lemons, four quarts 
boiling water. When cold add a compressed yeast 
cake dissolved in a little water. Let it stand twenty- 
four hours and bottle. 

Raspberry Vinegar. To ten quarts berries put one 
and one-half pints good vinegar, let them stand two 
nights; to each quart of juice, put one pound white 
sugar. Boil over a slow fire fifteen minutes, skim 
thoroughly and when cool bottle it. 

Russian Tea. i. When the water boils put in the 
tea, place the lid upon the teapot and put on the table 
• to draw for a few moments, then pour into the silver 
teapot, leaving out the leaves. 

2. Many like tea served with a thin slice of lemon 
in each cup, in the Russian fashion, instead of cream 
and sugar. 



CANDIES. 



" Sweets to the sweet." 



Almond Cakes. Whites five eggs, stir in sugar 
enough to make it stiff, with just a little pinch of flour, 
half pound almonds scalded and pounded. Drop on 
buttered tins and bake in a quick oven. 

Butter Scotch, i. Two cups sugar, two tablespoons 
of water, butter the size of an egg. Bofl without stir- 
ring until it hardens when dropped into water. 

2. 'One tablespoon butter, two tablespoons sugar, 
two tablespoons water, three tablespoons molasses, 
one teaspoon vanilla; just before it is cooked enough, 
one-fourth teaspoon of soda. Pour in a shallow tin 
and crease in squares. 

Chocolate Caramels, i. One cup sugar, one cup 
molasses, one gill cream, piece butter size of an egg, 
quarter pound chocolate, cook until it ropes, pour on 
buttered tins and cut in squares just before it is cold. 

2. One cup sugar, one-third cup milk, one square 
chocolate, one-half tablespoon butter; boil hard seven 
minutes; flavor with vanilla, turn into a shallow pan, 
and when hard enough cut into squares. Do not stir 
while boiling. 

3. One-fourth pound chocolate, three cups brown 
sugar, one cup milk, piece butter the size of an agg; 
flavor with vanilla. Boil one-half hour. 



CANDIES. lOI 

4. Creamed Chocolate. Three cups sugar, one-half 
cake grated chocolate (Baker's), one cup milk, one- 
fourth cup butter, one teaspooon vanilla; boil just ten 
minutes; take off in a dish and beat until it sugars. 
Pour in pan, cool and then cut in squares. 

Checkerberry Drops. One pint sugar, five table- 
spoons water, boil four minutes; two tablespoons 
sugar, half teaspoon cream tartar, fifteen drops oil of 
checkerberry stirred into mixture after boiling. Drop 
on tin or paper. 

Chocolate Creams. The white of one egg, an equal 
quantity of water; flavor with vanilla; beat the egg to 
a froth, add water and vanilla, then stir in as much 
confectioners' sugar as will hold, roll into balls and 
drop into chocolate steamed over the tea-kettle. 

Chocolate Drops. Two cups sugar, one-half cup 
water; boil three minutes, take from the fire and cool 
in a pan of water, stirring constantly till cold enough 
to roll into small balls; place them on buttered tins; 
take one-half bar chocolate, not sweetened, and break 
into small pieces and place in a plate over the tea- 
kettle; when this is melted, take the balls on a straw 
and roll in this chocolate. Flavor the cream and 
chocolate with vanilla. 

Cocoanut. One-half pound sugar, two tablespoon.s 
water, one-half pound grated cocoanut; stir until 
boiled to a flake. Put in buttered tins and cut in 
squares when cold. 

Cocoanut Drops. One cup prepared cocoanut, white 
of one Ggg beaten to a froth, one-half cup sugar, one 
spoonful flour; mi.x, then drop on buttered tins and 
bake five minutes in a quick oven. I-^lavor to taste. 



102 CANDIES. 

Cream. One pint sugar, one-half pint water, one 
tablespoon vinegar; boil hard twenty minutes, but do 
not stir. Work in vanilla as you pull it. 

Cream Walnuts. Into the white of an egg stir 
enough powdered sugar to roll into balls; flavor to 
suit the taste. Dip halves of English walnuts into a 
syrup made by boiling two tablespoons sugar and one 
tablespoon water three or four minutes; then place 
one-half walnut on either side of each ball and press 
together. Dates may be used in the same way. 

Ice Cream. Two cups granulated sugar, scant cup 
water; as soon as this boils add one-fourth teaspoon 
cream tartar dissolved in water; then boil without stir- 
ring until brittle when dropped in water; add butter 
the size of a walnut just before taking from the stove; 
pour into a buttered dish to cool and pull as hot as 
possible until white. Flavor while pulling with lemon 
and vanilla. 

Kisses. Whites four eggs, two cups sugar. Flavor 
as you please, drop on a tin covered with paper, and 
bake in a moderate oven. 

Molasses. One pint molasses, one pound white 
sugar, large tablespoon vinegar, half coffee cup cold 
water, piece butter large as a walnut. Boil all to- 
gether in a spider without stirring twenty minutes. 

Orange Drops. Juice and grated rind of one orange, 
little lemon juice; stir in confectioners' sugar till stiff 
enough to roll out into balls. No cooking. 

Peppermints. One cup sugar, one-half cup water, 
boil, stirring often, twenty minutes. Take from the 
stove and add half teaspoon cream tartar and pepper- 
mint to taste. 



CANDIES. 103 

Taffy. I. Six cups white sugar, one cup vinegar, 
one cup water; boil without stirring one-half hour; 
when done stir in one tablespoon soda dissolved in hot 
water. Flavor with vanilla and pull. 

2. One-half pound brown sugar, three ounces 
butter, one and one-half cups cold water. Boil all to- 
gether with the rind of one lemon, adding juice when 
done. 

Stuffed Dates. One pound dates stoned, and filled 
with one-half pound peanuts salted, baked and then 
chopped up fine. After the dates are filled roll in 
granulated sugar. 



CHAFING-DISH COOKING, 



" To be good, be useful. To be useful, always be making something good." 

Cheese Fondu. Put tablespoon butter in the chafing- 
dish; when melted, add cup fresh milk, cup of fine 
bread crumbs, two cups grated cheese, saltspoon of 
dry mustard, little cayenne. Stir constantly and add, 
just before serving, two eggs, beaten light. 

Curried Fish. Cook one tablespoon of onion, cut 
very fine, in one tablespoon butter five minutes; be 
careful not to burn; mix one tablespoon curry powder 
with one tablespoon flour, and stir into the melted 
butter; add gradually one-half pint milk or cream, 
stirring constantly; then add a large cupful any kind 
of cold boiled fish; let it simmer a few minutes and 
serve very hot. 

Lobster. Chop or shred the meat of a cold, boiled 
lobster, tail and claws; pour over it the juice of two 
lemons, add one-half teaspoon cayenne and a tea- 
spoon salt; put in the chafing-dish three tablespoons 
fresh butter; when melted add the lobster. Let it 
simmer for about ten minutes stirring constantly. 

Lobster a la Newburg. Take the nicest part of two 
small lobsters, cut into small pieces like dice, put into 
the chafing-dish with a tablespoon butter; season well 
with pepper and salt, pour over it a gill of wine; cook 
ten minutes; add the beaten yolks three eggs and half 
pint cream. Let all come to a boil and serve 
immediately. 



CHAFING-DISH. IO5 

Luncheon Sardines. Select firm, medium-sized sar- 
dines, remove skin carefully, put hot water dish on 
chafing-dish frame and pour into it pint of hot water; 
now put cutlet dish on top and into it put one tea- 
spoon butter, one teaspoon lunch paste, one-half wine 
glass of wine and very little white pepper. In this 
warm up the sardines putting each one on toast and 
serve at once. 

Oysters, Maitre d'Hotel. Dry dozen oysters in a 
napkin; put tablespoon butter in the chafing-dish, and 
when very hot place the oysters in single layers; when 
brown on one side turn them upon the other, and 
brown also; season with pepper and salt. Put out the 
lights, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over the 
oysters, strew over them very little chopped parsley 
and serve with or without toast. 

Relish for Raw Oysters. Two tablespoons finely 
chopped white onion, one teaspoon English " made " 
mustard, one dozen drops of Tabasco sauce, one- 
half teaspoon salt, one tablespoon horse radish, one 
saltspoon white pepper, one gill strong white viregar; 
mix, let stand a few minutes and put very little on 
each oyster. 

Welsh Rarebit. Put a tablespoon butter in the 
chafing-dish; when nearly melted, add pound and one- 
half fresh cheese, cut small as dice, teaspoon dry mus- 
tard, little cayenne, stir all the time, add small amount 
of beer to prevent burning. Keep adding beer, about 
half pint in all. Serve hot on toast. 



DISHES FOR INVALIDS. 



Beef Tea. Fill glass can with lean beef cut in small 
pieces; cover closely and set in kettle of cold water, 
let this come to a boil, and boil till the juice is all 
extracted. 

Infant's Beef Tea. Three ounces each beef and 
veal; boil six hours in water having a quart when it is 
done, add salt and skim when cold. Take equal parts 
of milk, water and broth, boil a minute and sweeten if 
desired. 

Chicken Tea. Remove skin and fat from a chicken, 
cut in small pieces; boil in one quart water, with a 
little salt, for twenty minutes. Pour off the tea before 
the meat is quite cold. 

Baked Milk. Bake two quarts milk eight or ten 
hours in a moderate oven in a jar covered with writing 
paper tied down. It will be thick like cream. Good 
for weak persons. 

Eau Sucre. Dissolve three or four lumps loaf sugar 
in a glass of ice water, and take teaspoon every four 
minutes for a " tickling in the throat," or hacking cough. 

Lemon Moss. Put a few sprigs of moss, which has 
been well washed, to soak in water enough to make the 
drink the thickness of cream. After standing a short 
time, add lemon juice and loaf sugar. 

Toast Water. Slices of toast, nicely browned, with- 
out a symptom of burning; enough boiling water to 
cover them; cover closely and let them steep till cold; 
strain the water, sweeten to taste, and cool with ice. 
A bit of lemon juice can be added. 



I Nr)K:x:. 



BREAD. 



Bangor Corn Cake, 
Ijannock, . 
Batter, 

Blueberry Cake, 
Breakfast, 
Breakfast I'uffs, 
Brown Bread, 
Buckwheat Cakes, 
Buns, , 

Buns, 

California Biscuit, 
Cheese Sandwiches, . 
Corn Cake, . 
Corn Cake, 
Corn Bread, 
Egg Pop-Overs, 
Flannel Cakes, 
French Toast, . 
Fried Biscuits, 
draham Bread, 
<^iraham Rolls, 
Huckleberry Biscuit, 
Indian Breakfast Cake 
Indian Cake, 
Indian Drop Cake, 
Muffins, 

Mutifins, English, 
Muffins, Graham, 



Muffins, Indian Meal, 

Muffins, Raised, 

Mutfins, Rye, 

Muliins, White, 

Pancakes, 

Parker House Rolls, 

Potato Biscuit, 

Potato Cakes, . 

Potato Rolls, 

Quaker Biscuits, 

Rice Crumpets, 

Rusks, 

Raised Rye Bread, 

Raised Rye Biscuit, . 

Rye Rolls, . 

Squash Fiscuit, 

Squash Fritters, . 

Squash Gems, . 

Squash Griddle Cakes, 

Steamed Whole Wheat Loaf, 

Tea Rolls, 

Waffles 

WafHes, German, 
Wheat Gems, 
White Corn Cake, . 
Yeast, ..... 



6 
13 



SOUPS. 



Black Bean, 

Beef, 
Bouillon, 

Celery, 
Corn, 
Lobster, . 



16 

i6 
16 

17 
17 
17 



Mock Oyster, 
Noodle, . 
Pea, 

Potato, . 
Stock, 
Tomato, 



17 

17 



16 



io8 



INDEX. 



FISH. 



Baked Cod, 
Baked Fish, 
Baked Lobster, 
Baked Shad Roe, 
Devilled Crabs, 
Escaloped Oysters, 
Fillets of Halibut, 
Fish Balls, . 
Fish Croquettes, 



Lobster Croquettes, . . 23 

Oyster and Clam Fritters, 23 

Oysters, Broiled, . . 23 

Oysters, Roast, ... 23 

Oysters, Scalloped, . . 24. 

Potted Shad, ... 24 

Salmon Croquettes, . 24 

Tomato Sauce, . . .22 



Camelons, 
Croquettes, 
Devilled Ham, 
How to choose Meats, 

Meat Pie, 

Meat and Potted Pie, 

Minced Veal, 



MEATS. 

29 Potted Beef, ... 27 

-7 Roast Lamb and Mint Sauce, 28 

-'-' Sausages, .... 28 

27 .Suet, to Chop ... 29 
23 Timbales, .... 29 

28 Veal Cutlets, ... 29 

29 Veal Loaf, .... 29 



Chicken Pie, 
Chicken Croquettes, 
Chicken in Jelly, 

Maryland Chicken, . 



FOWL. 



Pressed Chicken, . 


• 31 


Potted Pigeons, 


32 


Roast Duck, 


• 31 


'J'urkey. 


• 32 



A la Cream, 
Baked Eggs, 
Dropped Kggs, 



EGGS. 



36 
36 
36 



Kgg Vermicelli, 
Omelette, 
Shirred Eggs, 



35 
35 
36 



SALADS. 



Cabbage, .... 38 

Chicken or Lobster, . 38 

Dressing for Cabbage, . 39 

Dressing for Salad, . 39 

Dressing for Lobster Salad, 39 

Egg Salad, ... 38 

Leontine's Dressing, . 39 



Mustard Dressing, . . 41 

.Salad Dressing, . . 39 

.Salad Dressing, ... 40 

Salad Dressing, Bangor, . 40 

Salad Dressing Cream, . 40 

Welsh Rarebit, . . 41 



INDEX. 



109 



PIES. 



Apple Custard, 


• 47 


Bambuiy Tart, 


47 


•Chess, 


• 44 


Cocoanut, 


44 


Cream, 


• 44 


Cream Raspbetry, 


47 


SLemon, 


• 45 


Marlborough, 


• 45 



Almond Rice, 

Apple, 

Apple Charlotte, 

Apple Cream, . 

Apple Meringue, 

Caramel Custard, 

■Carrot, 

■Charlotte Russe, 

Chocolate, . 

Coburg, 

Cocoanut, 

College, 

Columbia, 

Cottage, . 

Cracker, 

English Plum, . 
Fig, 



Sauce, 

Foaming Sauce, 
P"or Whipped Cream, 
Hard Sauce, 



Mince Meat, 

Mock Mince, 

Modern Rhubarb, 

Orange, 

Pie Crust, 

Pie Crust Glaze, , 

Rhubarb, 

Saratoga, 

Squash, 



PUDDINGS. 



53 
4S 
48 
48 
53 

54 
52 
48 
49 
54 
50 
49 
49 
49 
49 

50 

53 



Fruit, 

Fruit Salad, 
Indian, 
Lemon Jelly, 
Mountain Dew, 
Orange Cream, 
Pineapple, 
Prune Whip, 
Queen of Puddings, 
Rye, 

Scarboro Puffs, 
Snow Balls, 
Sponge, -. . , 
Strawberry Trifle, 
Tapioca Cream, 
Tipsy Tritle, 



SAUCES. 

58 Mollie's Pudding, 
eg Plain Pudding, 



Arrowroot Ice, 
Bisque Glace, . 
Cafe Parfait, 
Caramel, 

Chocolate Cream, 
Coffee Cream, . 



59 
58 

FROZEN 

. 60 
60 

. 60 
60 

. 61 
61 



Raspberry Foam, 
Wine, 

DISHES. 

Delicious Ice Cream, . 

Frozen Pudding, 

Fruit Ice Cream, 

Ice Cream, 

Ice CreBm, . 

Ice Cream, Strawberr}', 



46 
46 

47 
46 

44 
44 

47 

47 
46 



55 
55 
50 
54 
51 
52 
5- 
53 
51 
51 
51 
53 
5> 
55 
5- 
54 



58 
58 
59 
59 



61 
61 
62 
61 
62 
62 



no 



INDEX. 



Lemon Ice, 


63 


Velvet Cream, 


63 


Lemon Sherbets, 


63 


Walnut Bisque, . 


64 


Orange Water Ice, 


63 


Water Ice, 


64 




CAKE. 




Almond, .... 


65 


Doughnuts, Aunt Grant's, 


72, 


Almond Silver, 


65 


English Walnut, 


73 


Almond or White, 


66 






Angel, 

Blueberry, .... 

Boiled Icing, . 


66 
66 

85 


Feather, 

Fig, 

Filling for a Layer Cake, 
French, .... 


73 

74 
74 

74 


Boston Ginger Bread, 


66 


French Loaf, . 


74 


Boston Puffs, . 


66 


Fruit, .... 


74 


Bread, .... 


66 


German, .... 


75 


Bride's, . . 


67 


(Gingerbread, Sugar, . 


75 


Bridgevvater, 


67 


Gingerbread, Hard Sugar, 


75 


Caramel, 


67 


Gingerbread, Maggie's, . 


75 


Caramel Frosting, 


85 


Gingerbread, Molasses, 


75 


Chocolate, 


67 


Gingerbread, Simplest and Best 


,76 


Chocolate Cocoanut, . 


68 


Ginger, .... 


76 


Chocolate frosting. 


86 


Ginger Puffs, 


76 


Citron, .... 


68 


Ginger Snaps, 


76 


Clove, .... 


68 


Gold, 


76 


Cocoanut, 


68 


Golden, 


77 


Cocoanut, .... 


69 


Graham, .... 


77 


Cocoanut, One, Two, Three, 




Harrison, 


77 


Four, .... 


69 


Hartford Election, 


77 


Cocoanut Cream, 


69 


Henry, .... 


77 


Cocoanut Frosting, . 


86 


Hermits, .... 


77 


Cold Water, 


69 


Hickory-Nut, . 

Ice Cream, .... 


77 


Composition, . 

Cookies, .... 


69 

70 


78 


Cookies, Cocoanut, . 


70 


Imperial, 


78 


Cookies, Molasses, 


70 


Jelly, 


7^ 


Cookies, Rice Flour, 


71 


Jumbles, .... 


78 


Cookies, Soft Molasses, 


70 


Jumbles, Soft, 


79 


Cookies, Sugar, 


71 


Julia, . . , . 


79 


Corn Starch, 


71 


Lady, 


79 


Cream, .... 


71 


Lemon Snaps, 


79 


Cream Cakes, 


71 


Magic, .... 


79 


Crullers, 


72 


Marble, .... 


79 


Crumpets, 


72 


Marbled Chocolate, 


80 


(Jurrant, .... 


72 


Marshall, .... 


So 


Dayton, .... 


72 


Molasses, .... 


80 


Delicate, 


72 


Molasses Drop, 


73 


Delicious, .... 


72 


Molasses Drop, 


80 


Delicious, 


73 


Molasses, Mrs. Clark's, . 


80 


Doughnuts, 


7i 


INIother Hubbard, 


80 


Doughnuts, Aunt Caroline's, 


73 









INDEX. 


III 


Nice, .... 


. 8i 


Rockland, 


• 83 


Nut, 

Nut, Cream, 

Nut, Golden, 


8i 

. 8i 

8i 


Sally Jewett, 

Silver, 

Snow, 


83 

• 83 

83 


Orange, 


. S2 


Spice, 


• 83 


Plain Raisin, 


82 


Sponge, 


. 84 


Piccolomini, 
Pound, 

Quick Cream Pie, 


. 82 
82 

. 82 


Trifles, 

Walnut, 
Washington, 


84 

. 84 
. . 84 


Raised Loaf, 


• 83 


White, 


• 85 


Rice Flour, 


83 


White Mountain, 


85 



PICKLES. 



Bordeaux Sauce, . 


. 89 


Pickled Eggs, 


92 


Cauliflower, 


90 


Pickled Lemons, 


92 


Chili Sauce, . 


. 89 


Pickled Lemons,. 


92 


Chow-Chow, 


89 


Pickled Oysters, 


92 


Cucumber, 


• 90 


Pickled Peaches, 


92 


Cucumber, Sweet Ripe, 


93 


Pickled Tongue, . 


92 


Hodge Podge, 
Mustard, 


90 
90 


Pure Grape, 
Spiced Currants, 
Sweet Piccalilli, 


90 

93 
93 


Ohio Catsup, 


• 91 


Sweet Pickled Pears, . 


93 


Pickle for Beef, 


91 


Tomato, .... 


gs 


Pickle for Butter, 


• 91 


Tomato Catsup, . 


94 


Pickle for Ham, 


91 


Tomato, Sweet Ripe, 


94 


Pickle for Pork, . 


• 91 


Tomato, Sweet, . 


94 




JELLIES. 




Apple, 


• 95 


Orange, .... 


96 


Cider, . . . . 


96 


To Can Pineapple, 


97 


Catawba Grape, 


. 96 


Sweet Apple Preserves, . 


97 


Currant, . 


96 


Wine, 


96 


Directions for Making, 


• 95 


Wine.. .... 


97 



BEVERAGES. 



Chocolate, 


98 


Cream Soda, 


. 98 


Currant Shrub, 


98 


Iced Tea, 


. 98 


Lemonade for Picnics, 


98 


Lemonade for Picnics, 


• 99 



Mead, 


99 


Pineapple, . 


99 


Pop Beer, 


99 


Raspberry Vinegar, . 


• 99 


Russian Tea, 


99 



112 



Almond Cakes, . 

Butter Scotch, 

Caramels, Chocolate, 

Caramels, Creamed Chocolate, loi 

Checkerberry Drops, 

("hocolate Creams, 

Chocolate Drops, . 

Cocoanut, 

Cocoanut Drops, 

Cream, .... 102 



INDEX. 




CANDIES. 




100 


Cream Walnuts, 


102 


too 


Ice Cream, . 


. 102 


100 


Kisses, . 


102 


e, loi 


Molasses, . 


. 102 


lor 

lOI 
lOI 


Orange Drops, 
Peppermints, 


ro2 
. 102 


lOI 


Stuffed Dates, 


103 


lOI 


Taffy, 


• 103 



CHAFING-DISHES. 



Cheese Fondu, . 


104 


Luncheon Sardines, . 


. 105 


Curried Fish, . 


104 


Oysters, Maitre d' Hotel, 


105 


Lobster, .... 


104 


Relish for Raw Oysters, 


. 105 


Lobster, a la Newburg, . 


104 


Welsh Rarebit, 


105 


DISHES 


FOR 


! INVALIDS. 




Baked Milk, 


106 


Infant's Beef Tea, 


106 


Beef Tea, 


106 


Lemon Moss, 


106 


Chicken Tea, 


106 


Toast Water, 


. 106 


Eau Sucre, . . . 


106 







