TX 715 

.M363 ^^ 

Copy 1 ''.(} 



RECIPES 




\ 

\^ OLD AN D NEW. 

\ ' ' '' "" 

\ COLLECTED BY 

mrsXgharlcs marsmall 

\ rOH THE BENEriT OP 

THE 

LvjiM L^uLiRATr. Rr.Licr Bazaar, 

APRIL. 1898. 



c 




RECIPES 



OLD AND NEW. 



COLLECTED BY 




A\RS\CHARLES MARSHALL 

\ rOR THE BENEriT Of 

THE 

CoNrEDCRATE ReLIEE BaZAAR. 



APRIL. 1898. 






/ 

i 24074 M 







...rf*:/ 



vi'^'M/fSgi: -::r'^''''^^<b''ter nf cW*"-^ 



tO- 






•<;v 



7(,to 



COPYRIGHT, l8g8, BY MKS. CHARLES MARSHALL. 



PRESS OF GUGGENHEIMER, WEIL & CO. 
BALTIMORE, MD. 



I 

i 



7(i80 



INDEX. 



tit 



PAGE. 

Coffee Ice Cream 38 

Lemon Water Ice 38 

Peach Ice Cream 38 

Orange Water Ice 39 

Strawberry Mousse 39 

Cafe Mousse 39 

Ice Cream 39 

Currant Ice 39 

Lemon Sherbet 40 

Custard Ice Cream 40 

Baked Ice Cream 40 

Nesselrode Pudding (Careme's).. 40 

iSlacaroon Ice Cream 41 



PUDDINGS, PIES AND 
CAKES. 

Tipsy Cake 41 

Cream Puffs 41 

Secession Pudding 41 

Cardinal Pudding 42 

Orange Pudding 42 

Phim or Fruit Pudding 42 

Another Recipe for Fruit Pud- 
ding 42 

Plum Pudding 43 

Plum Pudding 43 

Plum Pudding 43 

Lemon Pudding 43 

Lemon Pudding 44 

Bread Pudding 44 

Manioca Pudding 44 

White Potato Pudding 44 

Sweet Potato Pudding 44 

Potato Pudding 44 

Prune Pudding 45 

Cream Pudding 45 

.A.lmond Pudding, or Hedge Hog 45 

Banana Fritters 45 

Confederate Pudding 45 

Bird Nest Pudding 45 

Secesh Pudding 46 

Gateau de Riz (Madame Chatin).. 46 

A Souffle 46 

Mincemeat 46 

Mince Pie 47 

Victoria Pudding (Chef at Ham- 
mam R'lhra) 47 



CAKE RECIPES. 

PAGE. 

Black or Fruit Cake 48 

Plain Black Cake 48 

Jumbles 48 

Mother's Jumbles 49 

Jackson Jumbles 49 

" Sally White " Cake 49 

Cup Fruit Cake 49 

Icing for Cake 49 

Marguerites 49 

Nut Sponge Cake 50 

Ginger Pound Cake 50 

White Cake 50 

Fruit Filling for Layer Cake 50 

Mountain Cake 51 

General Lee's Jelly Cake 51 

Sponge Cake (old style) 51 

Sponge Cake 51 

Pound Cake 51 

Shrewsbury Cake 52 

My Grandmother's Ginger Cakes 52 

Wafers 52 

Wee Wees 52 

BREAD, CAKES, ETC. 

Recipe for Home-Made Yeast... 52 

French Rolls 53 

Plain Rolls 53 

Muffins S3 

Quick Waffles 53 

Virginia and Maryland Biscuits. . 53 

Cookies 53 

Flannel Cakes 53 

Buckwheat Cakes 54 

Sally Lunn 54 

Batter Bread 54 

Virginia Hoe Cakes 54 

Scotch Cakes 54 

Zephyr Cakes (Breakfast) 55 

Cottage Loaf 55 

Madison Cake 55 

Drop Muffins 55 

Thin Biscuits 55 

Colonial Waffles 56 

Beacon Biscuit 56 

Virginia Wonders 56 

Beaten Biscuit 56 

Healing Springs Sally Lunn 56 



INDEX, 



PAGE. 

Rye Bread 56 

Laplanders 57 

Corn Buns 57 

Maryland Biscuits 57 

Boiled Boston Brown Bread 57 

EGGS, CHEESE, ETC. 

Beauregard Eggs 57 

Bengal Omelette 5° 

Eggs au Beune Noir 5° 

Omelette Souffle 58 

Oyster Omelette 58 

Stuffed Eggs 58 

Eggs en Timbale 59 

Baked Eggs 59 

Cheese Omelette 59 

Scalloped Eggs 59 

Eggs upon Toast 59 

Creamed Eggs 60 

Croquettes of Maccaroni and 

Cheese 60 

Cheese Straws 60 

Cheese Souffle 61 

Welsh Rarebit (for Five) 61 

PICKLES, SWEETMEATS, 
ETC. 

" Chericoke " Pickle Liquor. ... 61 

Stuffing for Forty Mangoes 62 

Green Tomato Pickle 62 

Pickled Cucumbers 62 

To Pickle Peaches (Sweet) 63 

Mango Pickles 63 

German Damsons 64 

Tomato Catsup (made without 

cooking) 64 

Tomato Catsup 64 

Sweet Pickled Peaches 65 

Sweet Pickle of Grapes 65 

Brandy Peaches 65 

Brandy Peaches 65 

Dewberry or Grape Wine 66 

Raspberry Vinegar 66 

COLOGNE 66 



CANDY. 

PAGE. 

Caramels 67 

Sugar Candy 67 

Conserve of Roses 67 

Maple Sugar Caramel 67 

Everton Toffee 67 

Molasses Candy 68 

Pop-Corn Balls 68 

Butter Scotch 68 

Peanut Candy 68 

Nougat 68 

BEVERAGES. 

Cherry Bounce 69 

One Gallon of Apple Toddy 6g 

Mint Cordial or Julep 69 

Noyau Cordial 69 

Apple Toddy 70 

New York Union League Punch 70 

A Good Punch 70 

Roman Punch 70 

Roman Punch 70 

Philadelphia Fish House Punch... 70 

Punch 71 

Confederate Punch 71 

Hot Punch 71 

Claret Cup 71 

Champagne Cup. 71 

Tea Punch 72 

Egg Nog -72 

Recipe for Egg Nog ^2 

Virginia Egg Nog 72 

Wine Whey ^2^ 

Egg Nog ■]}, 

CONFEDERATE RECIPES. 

BY WAY OF CONTRAST. 

Confederate Candle 74 

Hard-Tack Cakes 74 

Confederate Blacking 74 

Confederate Ink 74 

Raspberry Leaf Tea 74 

Sweet Potato CofTee 74 

Rye Coffee 74 



INDEX. 



SOUPS. 

PAGE. 

Bouillon I 

Green Pea Soup i 

Spinach Soup I 

Bisque of Clams i 

Oyster Bisque 2 

Colonial Oyster Soup 2 

Oyster Gumbo 2 

Okra Gumbo, New Orleans 2 

Sassafras, or File Gumbo 3 

Okra Gumbo 3 

Crab Gumbo 3 

Crab Gumbo 3 

Bisque of Lobster 4 

Bisque of Crabs 4 

Crab Soup 4 

Cat Fish Soup 5 

Battenburg Soup 5 

Queen Victoria's Soup 5 

Chestnut Soup 5 

FISH. 

Sheepshead 6 

Cusque a la Creme 6 

Cusque a la Creme 6 

Baked Red Snapper, or Sheeps- 
head 7 

Fish Timbal in Ring Form 7 

Sea Bass, or Blackfish Chowder... 7 

Baked Shad 8 

Stewed Lobster 8 

Lobster Farcie 8 

Lobster a la Newburg 8 

Lobster Bourdelaise 9 

Lobster Croquettes 9 

Deviled Lobster 9 

Pickled Oysters 9 

Deviled Oysters 10 

Oysters Deviled in the Shell 10 

Oyster Croquettes 10 



PAGE. 

Roast Oysters 10 

Fricasse of Oysters 10 

Spiced Oysters 11 

Oyster Salad 11 

Creamed Oysters 11 

Oyster Stew 11 

Terrapins (about five) 12 

To Dress Terrapins 12 

Terrapin Calapash 12 

Shrimp Stew 12 

Shrimp a la Newburg 12 

Tomatoes Stuffed With Shrimp.. 13 

Shrimp Baked With Tomatoes. . . 13 

MEATS. ENTREES, GAME. 
Filet de Boeuf a la Mexicaine. ... 13 

Spiced Beef 13 

Spiced Beef 14 

Beef Stew 14 

Brunswick Stew 14 

Hunter's Round 14 

Spiced Round of Beef for Christ- 
mas 15 

Beefsteak Rolled and Stuffed 15 

A New Ham Stuffed 15 

Cheese Souse 16 

Roast Pig 16 

Veal Rolls 16 

Veal Cutlets 16 

Veal Cutlets 17 

Larded Liver 17 

Baked Calf's Head 17 

Mock Terrapin Stew 17 

SWEETBREADS. 

Baked Sweetbreads 18 

Bewitched Veal 18 

Sweetbreads 18 

Croquettes 19 

Deviled Chicken With Sauce 19 



PAGE. 

Chicken Croquettes ^9 

Timbale of Chicken ^9 

A Ragout to Fill Pates, etc 20 

Chicken Livers 20 

Chicken Terrapin 20 

Valencian Rice 20 

Boudins ^^ 

Chicken Galatine 21 

Partridges 21 

Partridge Pudding 21 

Partridges With Oysters 22 

Soufflee de Foie Gras 22 

Larded Calf's Liver 22 

Tongue a la Terrapin (Beckie) ... 22 

Soufflee of Partridges 23 

Pimento Dulci Farci (Spanish 

Sweet Pepper) 23 



VEGETABLES. 

Spinach ^2> 

.Spinach Soufflee 23 

Cabbage Pudding 2Z 

Tomatoes and Eggs 23 

Stuffed Peppers 23 

Stuffed Tomatoes 24 

Puree of Chestnuts (to serve as 
sauce for Sweetbreads, Poultry 

or Breaded Chops) 24 

Potato Croquettes 25 

Stufifed Potatoes 25 

Potato Puff 25 

Potato Soufflee 25 

Sweet Potato and Chestnut Souf- 
flee 25 

Stewed Mushrooms 25 

Mushrooms on Toast 26 

Broiled Mushrooms 26 

Mushrooms 26 

Corn Oysters 26 

Oyster Cakes 27 

Corn Pudding 27 

A French Way to Cook Egg Plant 27 

Stuffed Egg Plant 27 

Asparagus Forced in French Roll 28 
Asparagus Pudding 28 



SALADS AND SAUCES. 

PAGE. 

Mock Pineapple Salad 28 

Lobster Salad 29 

Fruit Salad 29 

Chicken Salad 29 

Tomato Jelly 29 

Water Cress Salad 30 

Beet and Bean Salad 30 

Cauliflower Salad 30 

Bean Salad 30 

Potato Salad 30 

Asparagus Salad 31 

Lettuce Salad 31 

Chicken Salad (Careme's Recipe) 31 

Sauce Mayonnaise 31 

French Dressing for Salads 31 

Truffle Sauce 31 

Horseradish Sauce 2i^ 

Sauce for Fish 32 

Hot Spice 32 

Indian Mustard 32 

Sauce Robert ^2 

Sweet Sauce for Venison t,^ 

Sauce Tartare t,t, 

Spanish Sauce :iT, 

Sauce Hollandaise t,;^ 

Black Butter Sauce 34 

Drawn Butter Sauce 34 

Anchovy Sauce 34 

Shrimp Sauce 34 

Oyster Sauce 34 

Sauce Veloute 34 

Tomato Sauce 34 

Sauce for Fried Halibut 35 

Sauce a la Burnet for Fish 35 

Bechamel Sauce 35 

Sauce aux Fines Herbes 35 

Turkey or Chicken Dressing 36 

DESSERTS. ICES, JELLIES. 

Jelly made in an hour 36 

Blanc Mange 36 

Calf's or Pig's Feet Jelly 36 

Fruit Salad ^y 

Bian Vos ^7 

Trifle 37 

Custard 38 

Burnt Cream 33 



RECIPES^OLD AND NEW. 



SOUPS. 

BOUILLON. 

Put into a stock pot three pounds of shin of beef, one pound of a 
knuckle of veal, and three quarts of water, and simmer gently. As 
soon as the scum begins to rise, skim carefully until it quite ceases to 
appear. Then add salt, two carrots, two onions, leeks, turnips and a 
little celery. Simmer gently for four hours, strain and serve. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Take a quart of shelled peas and as much water as will make a tureen 
of soup ; boil the peas till soft ; then mash them through a cullender 
until all the pulp has passed through ; then throw away the skins, and 
return the pot to the fire. There must be a piece of meat boiled with 
the peas — either a piece of middling the size of your hand or a shin of 
cold cooked veal, or lamb. Season with salt and pepper and a little 
bunch of thyme, parsley and mint, which take out when soup is 
dished. The soup must be thickened with a little flour, egg and milk, 
as chicken soup is. After the peas are passed through the cullender 
cut up the middling into bits and return to the soup. 

SPINACH SOUP. , ^ "" * 

Half a peck of spinach ; boil half an hour without water ; chop 
very fine ; pound it to a paste ; rub it through a sieve. Add one 
quart of brown stock ; melt three tablespoonfuls of butter, three of 
flour, one tablespoonful of sugar, one tablespoonful of salt, one salt- 
spoonful of pepper, add this to the spinach and cook for ten minutes. 
Add one and a half pints of cream ; boil up once more ; rub through 
a sieve and serve very hot. 

BISQUE OF CLAMS. 

Boil fifty clams in their juice for five minutes, drain them, chop them 
fine, and pound them. Put in a saucepan on the fire four ounces of but- 
ter, two ounces of flour, add clams and juice, with salt, pepper and 
cayenne and two pints and a half of milk. Stir constantly and just 
before coming to a boil remove from the fire, strain, heat again, and 
serve. An oyster bisque can be made in the same way. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 



OYSTER BISQUE. 
Take one pint of white stock, one pint of oysters, one cup of milk, 
two eggs, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, one heaping cup of bread 
crumbs and one large spoonful of butter, rubbed in flour. Strain the 
stock, add the bread crumbs and set over the fire in a farina boiler. In 
another vessel heat the oyster liquor, and when it simmers add the 
oysters chopped fine and cook for twenty minutes. In a third vessel 
scald the milk ; stir into this the floured butter ; boil up sharply and 
pour upon the beaten eggs. Set in hot water while you turn the oysters 
and liquor into the kettle, containing the stock and crumbs and cook 
together ; then put in the parsley and seasoning. Finally pour in milk 
and eggs and let the soup stand in hot water several minutes, but it 
must not boil. Serve immediately in a hot tureen. 

COLONIAL OYSTER SOUP. 
Take a half gallon of oysters with their liquor ; stew them, and when 
half done take a piece of butter the size of a tea cup and put it into as 
much flour as will thicken it, skimming the soup well before thickening 
it. Season with pepper, salt, mace. Just before you take it off add a 
half pint of rich cream, taking care that it does not turn. 

Mrs. Carroll's Recipe. 

OYSTER GUMBO. 
Cut up a chicken, sprinkle with flour, and fry in the vessel in which 
the gumbo is made. When the chicken is nearly done, chop an onion 
and fry with it. Pour on this three quarts of boiling water and let it 
boil slowly, till the flesh leaves the bones; then add the liquor from the 
oysters; salt and pepper to taste; two tablespoonfuls of tomato 
catsup; let this boil a short time; then add one hundred oysters 
and allow them to boil only £ve minutes. When taken from the fire, 
and before pouring into the tureen, sprinkle in two tablespoonfuls of 
file or sassafras powder. Mrs. M. M. Green. 

OKRA GUMBO— New Orleans. 
Cut up a chicken, and carefully fry it ; add very little onion ; pepper 
and salt to the taste. Take a few of the young and tender leaves of the 
okra, scald them and chop them very fine. Add them to the fricasse 
with a little broth ; stir it sometimes, then add the rest of the broth, 
and let it boil till the okra becomes quite soft. Gumbo may be made 
of almost anything — cold meat will answer as well as fresh. The 
chicken and turkey, with oysters, is the best. A little ham improves it, 
when put into the gumbo. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 



SASSAFRAS or FILE GUMBO. 

Having jointed a nice fat chicken, boil well to make a nice soup ; 
season with onions, tomatoes, salt and pepper to taste ; thicken with 
a very little flour. When boiling hot, add the sassafras powder, until it 
appears to fry (shaking the powder in the soup by degrees until enough, 
stirring all the while). Serve with a dish of dry boiled rice. Adding 
oysters to the chicken gumbo long enough to cook them, before putting 
in the sassafras powder is a great improvement. Young sassafras leaves 
can be gathered in ihe summer time, dried in the shade, then pounded 
and sifted fine as flour, and bottled. 

Mrs. W. a. Fisher. 

OKRA GUMBO. 

Cut up and wash dry a large fat chicken ; flour it well ; salt and 
pepper. Fry or saute the chicken in a lump of lard as large as an egg ; 
take out the pieces of chicken and put in the skillet two dozen pods of 
sliced okra and one onion. Fry brown, but not burn ; then put all in a 
soup pot. with five quarts of water, a few tomatoes and some grated 
corn : boil slowly for three hours. Serve with a dish of dry rice. 

Mrs. W. a. Fisher. 

CRAB GUMBO. 

Six crabs boiled in two gallons of water. Strain the water the crabs 
are boiled in, add one pound beef, one quart gumbo, one dozen toma- 
toes, one onion, one pod red pepper, thyme, parsley and black pepper 
to taste. An hour before serving put in the crabs and add a piece of 
butter. This soup should cook six hours. 

A Colonial Recipe. 

CRAB GUMBO. 

Take one dozen large crabs, one cup of butter, and two or three 
onions. Wash the crabs, taking care to get them free from sand ; take 
ofif the feelers and gills and divide the crabs into quarters ; brown the 
onions in the butter, with two tablespoonfuls of flour. Put in the 
crabs with about a handful of chopped ham. Fill up the pot with three 
quarts of cold water. Just before serving, sift in about two tablespoon- 
fuls of file. Do not let it boil after the file is put in. Serve with rice. 

Mrs. M. M. Green. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 



BISQUE OF LOBSTER. 

Procure two large, live lobsters; chop them up while raw, shells and 
all ; put them into a mortar with three-fourths of a pound of butter, 
three raw eggs and a quarter of a pound of cold boiled rice ; pound to 
a paste ; moisten with a little water, or stock ; then set aside. Fry out 
two slices of bacon fat, add to it one minced onion, a tablespoonful of 
chopped celery tops, one chopped long red pepper, one sliced carrot 
and a quart of stock ; boil slowly for two hours ; strain, and rub the 
ingredients through a sieve. Return to the soup ; keep it warm, but 
do not allow it to boil. If too thick, add a little more stock ; add salt 
to taste. Boil one quart of cream, whisk it into the soup ; taste again 
for seasoning ; pour it into a hot soup tureen and send to table. 

This soup can be prepared by following recipe for bisque of crab, or 
else by adding boiled lobster to a strong veal stock, and colored red 
by pounding the coral with butter, and adding this to the soup. 

BISQUE OF CRABS. 

Boil twelve hard-shell crabs for thirty minutes, and drain ; when 
cold, break them apart, pick out the meat carefully, scrape off all fat 
adhering to the upper shell, and save these for deviled crabs. Set the 
crab meat aside ; put the under shell and the claws in a mortar, with 
half a pound of butter and cupful of boiled rice, and pound them as 
smooth as possible ; then put this into a saucepan and add a heaping 
teaspoonful of salt, a bouquet of assorted herbs, a dozen whole peppers, 
a blade of mace and three quarts of stock ; boil slowly for one hour ; 
pour it through a sieve and work as much of the pulp through the sieve 
as possible. Place the soup on the range to keep warm, but not to boil. 

Beat up the yolk of one egg and add it slowly to a quart of warm 
milk previously boiled, whisk the milk into the soup ; taste for season- 
ing. Now take the crab meat and beat it in a little boiling water, drain, 
put it into a hot soup tureen, pour the soup over it, and serve. 

CRAB SOUP. 

Boil three pints of milk ; then add the meat of a dozen picked crabs. 
Boil five minutes. Rub a tablespoonful and a half of fiour with a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter ; soften with hot milk and add a half pint of 
cream, one egg beaten up, salt and cayenne pepper. Boil for one min- 
ute before serving. 

Judge Chambers. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 



CAT FISH SOUP. 
Put the cat fish on with a piece of ham, a bunch of herbs (parsley and 
thyme), with enough water to make soup. When the fish is boiled suffi- 
ciently to thicken the soup, make up the thickening with flour, egg 
and milk. Season it with pepper, salt and tomato juice. 

BATTENBERG SOUP. 

Put one calf's foot and three pounds of round of beef into a stew pan, 
with three carrots, three onions stuck with four cloves, celery, parsley, 
a bay leaf and thyme, a small piece of mace, salt and pepper. Then 
add three quarts and a half of water. Boil all very gently ; then take 
out the foot and wash it in cold water. Take out all the bones and put 
them back in the stock. Let it simmer for three hours very gently ; 
cut up the foot in small pieces and put them into a bowl with a little 
stock. Leave this till next day ; then strain the stock, take off all the 
fat. Thicken the soup with flour and cream. Put in the pieces of foot, 
one glass of sherry, and a teacupful of cream. 

Serve very hot. 

QUEEN VICTORIA'S SOUP. 

One cup of chopped chicken meat, one pint (or more) of strong 
chicken broth, one cup of sweet cream, one half cup of bread crumbs 
(or less). 

Yolks of three eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, one half saltspoonful of 
pepper. Put the bread crumbs to soak in the cream, mash the hard 
boiled yolks of the eggs. Mix all these ingredients with the broth, add 
the chopped chicken, pour into a double boiler and cook for ten 
minutes. 

Serve very hot. 

CHESTNUT SOUP. 

Remove the outer peel or coating from twenty-five Italian chest- 
nuts ; pour scalding water over them and rub off the inner coating. 
Put them into a saucepan with one quart of soup stock, and boil for 
three-quarters of an hour, drain, rub them through a colander, then 
through a sieve, with one tablespoonful of cracker dust ; or pound to 
a paste in a mortar ; season with salt and pepper ; add gradually the 
stock in which they were boiled ; add one pint more of stock ; boil 
once and draw to one side of the fire. 

Beat up the yolks of two raw eggs ; add them to one quart of warm 
milk ; whisk the milk into the soup ; taste for seasoning ; pour into 
a hot tureen and send to the table with croutons. 



b RECIPES — OLD AXD NEW. 

FISH. 

SHEEPSHEAD. 

Put into a chafing dish a well cleaned fish cut up and salted. Put in 
enough water to cook it well and when done there should be very little 
water left. Add then a cup of tomato catsup, a tablespoonful of butter 
and a little cayenne pepper. Or in place of the catsup use half a pint 
of claret and a little spice. 

CUSK A LA CREME. 

Take a rock fish and rub it well with salt : put it into a kettle with 
enough boiling water to cover it. As soon as it boils put it on one side, 
where it will just simmer ; let it stand for an hour ; then take it up and 
draw out all its bones. Put one ounce of flour into a saucepan, to which 
add by degrees one quart of cream, mixing it very smoothly ; then 
add the juice of one lemon, one onion chopped fine, a bunch of parsley, 
a little nutmeg, salt and pepper. Put this on the fire till it forms a thick 
sauce ; stir in a quarter of a pound of butter. Strain the sauce through 
a sieve ; put a little on the dish ; then lay the fish on the dish and turn 
the sauce over it. Beat to a froth the whites of six eggs and spread over 
the whole ; set in the oven and bake half an hour. Be careful to bake it 
only a very light color. 

This is a very handsome dish for company : it is very nice without the 
eggs, but not so handsome. 

Mrs. Putnam. 

CUSQUE""A la CREME. 

Two or three pounds of halibut, one quart of milk, one teacupful of 
flour, two small onions, a quarter of a pound of butter, nutmeg, salt, 
pepper, bread crumbs. Boil the halibut in water into which a little salt 
has been thrown. When done flake it in fine flakes from the bones. Put 
the milk and onion, (chopped fine.) in a stew pan. Let the milk come to 
a scald; then add flour, made smooth with a little cold water, and sea- 
soning. Stir until it thickens ; then add butter. Strain through a sieve. 
Put some of the mixture in the dish in which it is to be served; then put 
alternate layers of fish and sauce, finishing with the sauce on top. Cover 
with bread crumbs and place in the oven to brown. A little wine added 
to the seasoning is an improvement. 

Miss Murdoch. 



RECIPES — OLD AXD NEW, 



BAKER RED SNAPPER OR SHEEPSHEAD. 
Take two or three Irish potatoes ; boil them, mash them with two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, a small onion cut very fine, black pepper and 
salt to taste. Salt the fish, put in a baking-pan and stuff it with the 
potato dressing ; sprinkle a little flour over it. Put in the pan with the 
fish two tablespoonfuls of butter, two dessertspoonfuls of sweet oil, a 
dozen tomatoes sliced, or half a can of prepared tomatoes, and a teacup 
of water. Bake in a moderate oven until done. When the fish is done, 
slice over it three hard-boiled eggs. Stir into the gravy a tablespoonful 
of tomato catsup and one of Worcestershire sauce. Pour over the fish 
and it is ready for the table. Mrs. M. M. Green. 

FISH TIMBAL IN RING FORM. 

One pound of halibut or cod, one egg, one tablespoonful of butter, 
one tablespoonful of flour, one cup of milk, whites of three eggs, pepper 
and salt to taste. 

Chop the fish very fine and serve with one whole egg and rub through 
the puree sieve. Mix flour, butter, milk, salt and pepper, and beat very 
light, as cake, about five minutes or more. Set in a cool place on ice. 
This may be done in the morning, or the day before using. Just before 
cooking, beat the whites of three eggs to a stifif froth and stir in gently. 
Put in the ring-shaped mould, cover with buttered paper and put in a 
saucepan, letting the water cover half the ring. Let simmer slowly 
twenty-five minutes. 

Sauce. — One tablespoonful of flour, one tablespoonful of butter, one 
cup of milk, one egg. Melt butter and stir in flour, letting it cook, but 
not become colored. Boil the milk and stir in gradually and beat in the 
yolk of an egg. Decorate with chopped trulifles or chopped lobster or 
shrimps and put in the centre of the ring. 

SEA BASS OR BLACKFISH CHOWDER. 
Eight pounds of fish, boned and cut thin, twenty-five small clams, two 
pounds of salt pork, well boiled and cut small, ten Boston crackers, 
toasted and split, twelve mashed potatoes, half a pound of sweet butter, 
six onions, fried brown, (sliced), three tomatoes, (sliced), half a bunch 
of parsley, cut fine, salt, red and black pepper, and a little Worcester- 
shire sauce. Squeeze in half a lemon before dishing. Fifteen minutes 
before dishing put in a glass of sherry and a bottle of ordinary claret. 
Start the stock with knuckle of veal. Begin at ii A. M. and be ready 
for 6.30 o'clock dinner. Will make enough for two dinners. 

Mrs. George Dallas Dixon. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 



BAKED SHAD. 
Lay the fish open, make a force meat of grated bread crumbs, bits of 
bacon, a Httle parsley, pepper and salt, made up with yolk of egg. After 
this is made spread it over the raw fish ; dust a little flour over that ; 
lay it in the oven, with a little water, to bake ; just before it is done pour 
wine and catsup over it. 

jNIrs. H. C. Dallam. 

STEWED LOBSTER. 

Break the shell of the lobster ; take out the vein that runs through the 
back and put the spawn in a cup by itself. Put on the fire one pint of 
milk, with very little mace. When it boils, add two teaspoonfuls of flour 
mixed with the tomalley and half a teaspoonful of salt, a little mustard, 
and butter the size of a walnut. Then cut up the lobster, put it into the 
hot sauce for a few minutes. Before serving add one teaspoonful of 
vinegar and garnish well with claws. 

LOBSTER FARCIE. 
Chop a small onion verj^ fine and put with a teacup of milk in a sauce- 
pan on the fire to cook. Add a tablespoonful of butter, creamed with a 
tablespoonful of flour, two tablespoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce and 
two cooked tomatoes or tomato sauce, and a teaspoonful of curry. Have 
for this quantity of sauce about six pounds of lobster chopped very fine. 
Pour the sauce over it, and, if there is not enough to make it very moist, 
add cream. Take two lobster shells ; slip one a little over the other : 
fill with the mixture ; put fine bread crumbs over the top, with dots of 
butter, and put in the oven to brown. 

LOBSTER Ta la NEWBURG. 
Split two good-sized, freshly boiled lobsters ; pick out all the meat 
from the shell and cut into one-inch length pieces. Place it in a saucepan 
on a hot range, with one ounce of fresh butter. Season with one 
pinch of salt and half a saltspoonful of red pepper, adding two medium- 
sized sound truffles cut into dice. Cook five minutes, and then add a 
glass of good ^Madeira wine. Reduce to one-half, which will take three 
minutes. Have three egg yolks in a bowl, with half a pint of sweet 
cream ; beat these well together and add to the lobster. Gently shuffle 
for a few minutes until it thickens well. Pour into a hot tureen and 
serve hot. 

French Recipe. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 



LOBSTER BOURDELAISE. 

Select a coral lobster of about three pounds ; plunge it into boiling 
water and cool for twenty minutes. When cold, remove the meat from 
the shell and cut in small bits. Also add a dozen mushrooms cut in bits. 

Put in a frying-pan three tablespoonfuls of olive oil. When hot, add 
three small onions cut \ery fine. Let the onions fry until a light 
brown ; then stir in a tablespoonful of flour ; mix well ; then add, 
slowly stirring all the while, half a pint of soup stock. Let the sauce 
cool well for five minutes ; then remove from the fire, and stir in the 
juice of half a lemon, and a claret glass full of white wine. Return to the 
fire and add the lobster meat. Let all cook until thoroughly hot, but 
do not allow it to boil. Serve on a hot dish, garnished with parsley. 

LOBSTER CROQUETTES. 
Chop fine the meat of two boiled lobsters and add half a pint of 
Bechamel sauce, to which you have added the yolks of two eggs well 
mixed with water enough to moisten them. Then add two tablespoon- 
fuls of tomato sauce, a little pepper, salt and a very little nutmeg, and 
put on ice until perfectly cold. This is of the utmost importance. When 
thoroughly cold, form the mixture into croquettes ; roll them in bread 
crumbs ; beat three eggs, both yolk and white, into which dip the 
croquettes ; roll them again in bread crumbs. Put about two pounds of 
lard in a frying pan and when very hot fry the croquettes until they are 
light brown ; then drain and serve. 

French Recipe. 

DEVILED LOBSTER. 
Prepare a mixture as for lobster croquettes and mix with it a tea- 
spoonful of mustard. Clean the lobster shells ; fill with mixture ; cover 
lightly with mustard, on top of which sprinkle some bread crumbs and a 
very little melted butter. Put into the oven, and, when colored a light 
brown serve. French Recipe. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 
Put one gallon of oysters with three small handfuls of salt on the fire ; 
let them stew until the edges curl ; then take all the oysters out and 
drain them on a sieve ; to the liquor add a tablespoonful of mace, all- 
spice and whole pepper, equal parts of each, and a tumbler and a half of 
vinegar ; let it boil ; then put the oysters back and let them stand a 
short time. 

Mrs. p. H. White. 



10 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 

DEVILED OYSTERS. 
Take fifty blanched oysters, four ounces of butter, one tablespoonful 
of flour, one tablespoonful of line cracker dust, one saltspoonful of salt, 
a half tablespoonful of dry mustard. Rub the butter and flour to a 
smooth cream. Put the juice of the oysters into a saucepan. Set over a 
clear fire ; stir in the butter and other ingredients, with the exception of 
the oysters, and bring to a boil ; then put in the oysters, take ofif the fire, 
let stand a minute and serve in a tureen or deep dish. 

OYSTERS DEVILED IN THE SHELL. 
Select large oysters, and when opened keep them in their deep shells 
with the liquor. Put the shells on a gridiron ; season with cayenne 
pepper and salt, and place a lump of butter on each oyster. Have a 
quick fire and they will cook in a few minutes. 

OYSTER CROQUETTES. 
Take twenty-five good fat oysters with one gill of their own liquor, 
one gill of cream, one tablespoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour ; add one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, the yolks of two eggs, 
a quarter of a grated nutmeg, with salt and cayenne pepper to taste. 
Put the oysters on to boil in their own liquor, boil and stir constantly 
for five minutes. Take them from the fire and drain. Chop the oysters 
very fine. Now put into a saucepan one gill of this liquor, and the 
cream. Put together the butter and flour. Add this and the oysters to 
the boiling liquor and cream and stir until it boils and thickens. Then 
add the yolks of the eggs : stir over the fire for one minute ; take it ofif, 
add parsley, salt, cayenne and nutmeg; mix well, and turn out to cool. 
When cold, form into cylinders, roll first into beaten egg; then in 
bread crumbs, and fry in boiling oil or fat. 

ROAST OYSTERS. 
Take the oysters from the shell, bread them, and put them with the 
liquor into tin or shell scallops (six in a shell, not more), with a little 
pepper and butter. Put the shells upon a gridiron, over a good fire, 
and serve them when plump and quite hot. Squeeze a little lemon 
juice over them when taken from the fire. 

FRICASSEE OF OYSTERS. 
Put one quart of oysters on the fire in their own liquor. The moment 
it begins to boil, turn it into a hot dish through a colander, leaving 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 11 

the oysters in the colander. Put into the saucepan two ounces of butter, 
and when it bubbles, sprinkle in one tablespoonful of sifted flour; let it 
cook a minute without taking color, stirring it well with a wire egg 
whip ; then add, mixing well, a cupful of the oyster liquor. Take it 
from the fire and mix in the yolks of two eggs, a little salt, a very little 
cayenne pepper, one teaspoonful of lemon juice and one grating of nut- 
meg. Beat it well ; then return it to the fire to set the eggs, without 
allowing it to boil. Put in the oysters. 

SPICED OYSTERS. 
Two hundred oysters, one pint of vinegar, a nutmeg grated, eight 
blades of mace, three dozen whole cloves, one teaspoonful of salt, two 
teaspoonfuls of whole allspice, and as much cayenne pepper as will lie 
on the point of a knife. Put the oysters, with their liquor into a large 
earthen vessel ; add to them the vinegar and all the other ingredients. 
Stir all well together and set them over a slow fire, keeping them cov- 
ered. Stir them to the bottom several times. As soon as they are well 
scalded, they are done. To be eaten cold. 

OYSTER SAL.\D. 
Cut a quart of oysters into bits, mix them with two-thirds as much 
blanched, tender celery, also cut, not chopped. Put into a glass dish and 
pour over it a good mayonaise dressing, serve immediately. Until the 
oysters and celery are mi.xed, keep both in a very cold place. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 
One pint of cream, one pint of oysters, a small piece of onion, a very 
small piece of mace, a tablespoonful of flour, salt and pepper to taste. 
Mix cream, onions and mace and let them come to a boil ; mix the flour 
with enough cream to smooth, and stir into boiling cream ; let the 
oysters come to a boil in their own liquor, and skim carefully. Drain 
ofif all the liquor ; take mace and onion out of the cream ; then turn the 
oysters into it. 

OYSTER STEW. 

Put in a chafing dish one cup of oyster juice, two tablespoonfuls of 
celery, chopped fine, half an onion in one piece. Season with paprica 
pepper, salt and a very little Worcestershire sauce. Cook until celery is 
done. Add half a pint of cream and let it simmer, not boil. Add five 
middle-sized oysters, (frying size,) to each portion. Take out onion, 
thicken with cracker dust. 

Mr.s. George Dall.\.s Dixon. 



12 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 

TERRAPINS (ABOUT FIVE). 

Throw the terrapins alive into a kettle of boiling water. When they 
are thoroughly cooked, so that the shell will come off easily, take them 
out and throw them into a pan of cold water for a few minutes ; then 
take off the shell and pick them very carefully, so as to separate them 
from the gall without breaking it. Pick the meat fine (do not chop it), 
and throw it into a bowl ; also the feet, after they are carefully skinned, 
and small bones to which the meat clings, and all the eggs. Then put all 
this into a kettle with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and a little 
salt ; let this stew slowly, and take a quarter of a pound more of butter 
and cream it with an ounce of sifted flour, and add to the terrapins while 
stewing. Just before they are served add one large wine glass of table 
sherry for every terrapin. The recipe is for five diamond-back terra- 
pins, and will require one quart of table sherry. 

Mrs. James Nicholson. 

TO DRESS TERRAPINS. 

One pound of butter to two large terrapins. Salt and pepper to the 
taste. 

H. D. G. Carroll. 

TERRAPIN CALAPASH. 

The terrapin must be stewed slowly and well seasoned with a little 
mace, allspice, black pepper and cayenne. Then melt one tablespoonful 
of butter which has been rolled into balls with one of flour. Cook to- 
gether slowly until thoroughly done; add one wineglass of wine, put 
back into the upper shell, cover with cracker dust, dot with bits of but- 
ter and brown in the oven. 

SHRIMP STEW. 

One quart of shrimp, one pint of milk, one tablespoonful of butter, 
one teaspoonful of flour, cayenne pepper, one wineglass of wine. Boil 
the milk, mix the flour and butter rubbed together ; then add the pep- 
per after boiling for ten minutes and place the shrimp in and boil for 
ten minutes more. Just before serving put in the wine and a few 
slices of lemon. 

SHRIMP A LA NEWBURG. 

Peel and cut in half two quarts of shrimp. Put in a saucepan on the 
fire with a heaping tablespoonful of butter, saltspoonful of cayenne and 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 



four truffles cut up, if convenient. Cook five minutes; add one glass of 
Sherry or Madeira and cook three minutes longer. Break into a bowl 
three eggs and half a pint of cream ; beat well and stir in the shrimp. 
Let it simmer, but not boil, until it thickens. Crabs can be used the 
same way. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH SHRIMP. 
Take five large tomatoes, cut off the stem end and remove carefully 
the inside. Cut the shrimp into small pieces, but do not chop them. 
Season with pepper, salt and butter, stuff the tomatoes, sprinkle with 
cracker dust and brown in an oven. 

SHRIMP BAKED WITH TOMATOES. 
Stew a little and strain one quart of tomatoes. Have ready two 
quarts shrimp. Put in a baking pan a layer of tomatoes, then a 
layer of shrimp, a spoonful of butter, a layer of cracker dust, salt and 
pepper to taste. Sprinkle the top with cracker dust, dot with butter. 
Bake slowly until thick and slightly jellied. 



MEATS, ENTREES, GAME. 

FILET DE BOEUF A LA MEXICAINE. 
Take a filet, lard and skewer it into shape and put in the dripping 
pan. Add four carrots, cut in slices, one onion, four stalks of celerj', 
cut in pieces, pepper and salt to taste put on top of the meat. Dredge 
with flour. Pour in a teacup or more of water and baste constantly. 
Chop very fine some Pimento Dulci and serve with rice cooked very 
dry, around the meat. It must be served hot. 

SPICED BEEF. 
Get a round of beef of eighteen or twenty pounds; wash and wipe 
dry. Rub into it two ounces saltpetre and four of brown sugar, and a 
pint of molasses. Rub every day until all is used. Let it stand for a 
day in a securely covered vessel. Then every other day for two weeks 
rub in the following : Two ounces ground pepper, two ounces all- 
spice, one ounce cloves, two ounces salt ; then put it on a slow fire, 
covering it with water, and all the spiced liquor in the bowl. Stew 
slowly for six hours, and let it cool in the liquor. 

Margaret A. Pegram. 



14 KECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 

SPICED BEEF. 

A recipe for preparing round of beef or fillet of veal : Take a round 
of beef or fillet of veal and take out the bone. Then make a force 
meat of stale bread grated ; some beef suet chopped fine, a little bacon 
chopped fine, a spoonful of butter, pepper and salt, an onion, a little 
parsley, and nutmeg and a little allspice to season. Beat up the yolks 
of two eggs very light ; fill the place from which the bone is taken ; 
then make the rest of the force meat into balls to be set round the 
beef when cooked. Bake the beef or veal in an oven. Make a brown 
gravy seasoned with pepper, salt, wine and catsup, and pour over the 
meat when served. 

BEEF STEW. 

Slice up the rare part of the beef, both fat and lean, and let stand in 
the dish and cover with water. Season it with pepper, salt and mus- 
tard, sprinkling a very little flour over it. Add two tablespoonfuls oi 
currant jelly ; a tablespoonful of brown sugar, and just before it is 
ready to take of? the fire add a little nutmeg, a half teacup of catsup, 
a half teacup of sweet pickle and a cupful of wine. 

BRUNSWICK STEW. 

To two quarts of water add one chicken cut up ; two slices of fat 
bacon cut in small pieces. Let it boil gently for four hours ; then 
add half a pint of ripe tomatoes, half a pint of lima beans, three ears of 
cut corn, a teaspoonful of salt, pepper and sugar, a lump of butter the 
size of a hen's egg. Let this boil one hour ; then take out all the 
bones and serve. Two and a half pounds of veal may be used instead 
of the chicken. 

Mrs. Dallam. 

HUNTER'S ROUND. 

Rub well into a round of beef weighing forty pounds three ounces 
of saltpetre, and let it stand five or six hours. Pound three ounces of 
allspice, one of black pepper and mix that with twenty pounds of 
salt and seven or eight pounds of brown sugar. Rub the beef well 
with this mixture and pack it down to stay fourteen days. Scrape off 
the spices, place it in a deep pan, cover it with a common paste, and 
bake for eight or ten hours. When cool wrap in a linen cloth and keep 
it in a cool place. This will keep well for several weeks. 

Mrs. M. M. Green. 



RECIPES — OLD A>fD NEW. 15 

SPICED ROUND OF BEEF FOR CHRISTMAS. 

Twenty-four pounds good beef, two and a half pounds beef suet, 
one tablespoonful ground saltpetre, three ounces celery seed, half an 
ounce cayenne pepper, seven ounces ground mace, two ounces ground 
allspice, one ounce ground cloves, a pound and a half light brown 
sugar. Get the beef the first week in December ; have the bone taken 
out with a very sharp knife ; make slits radiating from the centre ; cut 
to within half an inch of the bottom. Rub the centre and the slits thor- 
oughly with the saltpetre. Have the suet shredded, but keep the pieces 
la:rge. Mix the salt and spices and sugar together and fill the hole 
in the centre and the slits with alternate layers of suet and this mixture. 
It must be packed in very tight by a strong hand. It must then be 
pressed together very closely and bound round with a strip of some 
strong stuff and corded to keep in shape. The whole entirely covered 
with the cloth. Put in a strong brine (such as butchers prepare for 
their meats). Have it boiled the day before Christmas, without remov- 
ing the cloths, which are not taken off till the next day when perfectly 
cold. Have it nicely trimmed of? by cutting the dark surface on top. 
Decorate with fancy carrot shapes, sliced lemon and parsley. 

Mrs. Hugh Lee. 

BEEFSTEAK ROLLED AND STUFFED. 

Procure a good beefsteak ; sprinkle over it a little pepper and salt ; 
then over half of the steak spread a layer of good force meat. Roll 
the steak up carefully ; tie or skewer it to keep it in shape and bake in 
the oven, basting frequently with butter. Have some good brown 
gravy ; pour part in the dish around the steak and send the rest to the 
table in the gravy boat. In carving begin at the end of the roll. 

Old English Recipe. 

A NEW HAM STUFFED. 

Chop up a slice of ham, a little suet, a spoonful of onion, one dozen 
cloves, a tablespoonful of allspice and a teaspoonful of black pounded 
pepper, some thyme and a whole cup of bread crumbs. Boil a small 
ham two-thirds done and put it into cold water five minutes. Make 
stabs with a large knife into the bone. Stuff them with the dressing 
prepared very tightly ; cover the ham with the rest of the preparation, 
adding more bread crumbs, and bake three hours. 

Miss McCandlish. 



16 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 

CHEESE SOUSE. 

Take the fresh head and jowl and boil them with salt, pepper and a 
little onion until the meat is tender ; then cut it into thin slices. Skin 
and strain the liquor and season with allspice, cloves and pounded 
thyme and a little red pepper. Return the meat to the pot in which 
the liquor is, and boil down to a thick jelly; then put it into a mould. 
Mrs. George Evelyn H.\rrison Brandon. 

ROAST PIG. 

Take a pig of about eight or ten pounds ; clean well, leaving on the 
head and feet. Make a stuffing of bread, two eggs, one tablespoonful 
of butter, sugar, thyme, onion chopped, and pepper and salt. Stale 
bread is best. Soften with water, and put in a frying pan, with a table- 
spoonful of lard to brown, mixing in the eggs, butter and seasoning. 
When brown stufif the pig and sew up the opening. Truss with the 
front legs bent backward and the back legs forward. Brush the pig 
with butter or salad oil. Baste frequently. Cook till thoroughly done, 
and make the gravy, (after removing pig,) by adding a little water, 
thickened with flour, and the liver and heart of the pig, (which have 
been cooked in the pan with it), chopped fine and mixed in. Serve in 
a gravy dish. 

VEAL ROLLS. 

Take ten or twelve little thin slices of veal, lay on them some force 
meat, according to your fancy ; roll them up and tie them across the 
middle with some coarse thread ; put them on a bird spit ; rub them 
over with the yolks of eggs ; flour them and baste them with butter. 
Half an hour will cook them. Lay them in a dish and have ready some 
good gravy with a few mushrooms and truffles. Garnish with lemon. 

Old English Recipes. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Three pounds of veal for ten people. Cut the veal fillet in four parts 
rectangularly, and slice in very thin slices, shaping as prettily as pos- 
sible. Pound each piece with a potato masher ; egg and bread-crumb 
them as for croquettes and fry a light brown in a little butter and lard. 

Boil all trimmings in about a pint of water a couple of hours and 
strain. Cream butter the size of a small egg and a tablespoonful of 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 17 

flonr. Brown it and add to this stock, stirring all the while, and strain 
again. Add about a tablespoonful of the veal, of which the stock 
has been made, chopped very fine, two or three mushrooms and a 
couple of queen olives, all chopped very fine. Keep this gravy on the 
stove in a pan of water and pour on the meat after it is dished for the 
table. Slice olives, taking the two broad slices to make a garland 
round the dish and the narrow slices to decorate each fillet. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 
Cut the cutlets into convenient pieces. Dip them into well-beaten 
eggs and cover with fine bread crumbs, and fry them brown ; then 
put into a saucepan some pieces of raw veal and the bones ; on this 
carefully lay the fried cutlets. Add the rind of half a lemon, half a 
carrot, half a turnip, an onion cut very fine, a teaspoonful of walnut 
catsup, a little salt, a shade of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of capers, 
or of chopped pickles; barely cover with cold water and simmer slowly 
until tender, which will be in two or three hours. When ready to serve 
pour the gravy around them ir^ the dish and sprinkle over them the 
finely mashed yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and some capers. 

LARDED LIVER. 
Lard a sheep's or calf's liver with bacon. Cover with thin slices of 
bacon, bake it. basting well ; brown some sliced parboiled sweet po- 
tatoes in the pan at the same time. Serve with a brown gravy, and the 
sweet potatoes for a garnish around it 

BAKED CALF'S HEAD. 
Boil till tender ; remove the brains and cook them separately, but 
mix them with the meat, when it is carefully picked from the bones ; 
season with one teacup of sherry, nutmeg, celery seed, a quarter of a 
pound of butter, pepper and salt. Put it in a baking dish and let it 
bake a light brown. Garnish with sliced lemon and hard-boiled egg. 

Mrs. Hugh Lee. 

MOCK TERRAPIN STEW. 
Half of a calf's liver cut in slices ; dip the slices in flour, to which has 
been added salt and pepper, and fry brown in lard, turning very often ; 
when cold, chop rather fine together, with two hard-boiled eggs ; 
season with one teaspoonful mixed mustard, a pinch of cayenne, the 
same of ground cloves, a piece of butter the size of an egg, one 
tablespoonful of flour and one cup of hot water ; let simmer five 
minutes, and just before serving add a wineglassful of good sherry. 



18 KECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 



SWEETBREADS. 

BAKED SWEETBREADS. 

Take three large white sweetbreads ; lay them in warm water for an 
hour and a half. Then put them into boiling water and let them sim- 
mer for ten minutes. Then take them out, drain them, dip in beaten egg; 
sprinkle with bread crumbs, repeating this until they are sufficiently 
covered. Drop a little melted butter on them and bake in a moderate 
oven. Serve on toast on a hot dish, with a nice brown gravy poured 
around but not over them. 

BEWITCHED VEAL. 

Chop together three pounds of lean veal, half a pound of salt pork, 
one ounce of butter, one small onion, adding half a teaspoonful grated 
nutmeg, a little cayenne and salt to taste. When the meat is finely 
chopped, mix all together with three well-heaten eggs and a scant 
half pint of milk. Work the ingredients well together and pour into 
a loaf, pressing firmly into shape. Cover it with finely grated bread 
crumbs and bake for about two and a half hours. To be eaten cold, 
cut in thin slices. 

SWEETBREADS. 

Take a knuckle of veal, with two onions and a piece of bacon. Pour 
on it three pints of water, which must cook it. When it boils to a jelly, 
strain the meat from the gravy. You must avoid adding any more 
water. Take a spoonful of browning and add it to the gravy. Take 
the eight sweetbreads, cut off the gristle and pour on them boiling 
water, and then throw them into cold water. Then lard them on one 
side. Salt the gravy ; lay the sweetbreads in a spider or bellmetal 
saucepan — not to touch each other — the larded side down. Let them 
stew slowly, turning when they are done on one side. At first a little 
gravy must be kept back in case it dries up. They must only be 
turned once. They must be cooked slowly, so as to avoid burning 
them. After cooking an hour take them out and lay them at the back 
of the stove to simmer. They must be glazed with some of the 
gravy. The knuckle should be cooked all day or the day before. 

]^Irs. von Kapff. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 19 

CROQUETTES. 

One tongue, seven sweetbreads. Boil the tongue five hours ; boil 
the sweetbreads till quite tender. Chop them up together into a soft 
paste. Beat up two eggs quite light ; mix in with it some butter and 
a little of the water in which the sweetbreads are boiled. Season it 
with onion, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Make it up in a form. Dip each one 
in bread and egg ; fry in boiling lard. Cream improves them. 

DEVILED CHICKEN WITH SAUCE. 

The chicken is boiled tender in a little salted water. When cold it is 
cut into pieces ; these pieces are basted with butter and broiled. 

Sauce. — One teaspoonful of made mustard, two tablespoonfuls of 
Worcestershire sauce, three tablespoonfuls of vinegar ; boil all to- 
gether and pour over the chicken. Or boil the chicken, cut into pieces, 
pepper and salt them, roll them in flour, saute them in a little hot lard, 
and serve cream sauce, the same as for fried spring chicken. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Two chickens and two sets of brains, both boiled ; one teacupful of 
suet, chopped fine ; two sprigs of parsley, chopped ; one nutmeg 
grated ; an even tablespoonful of onion, after it is chopped as fine as 
possible ; the juice and grated rind of one lemon ; salt and black and 
red pepper to taste. Chop the meat very fine ; mix all well together ; 
add cream until moist enough to mould them ; dip them into beaten 
egg, and roll them in pounded cracker or bread crumbs ; fry in boil- 
ing lard. 

TIMBALE OF CHICKEN. 

Chop fine and then pound in a mortar half a pound of the white meat 
ot a chicken, removing all skin and sinews ; add to the chicken very 
gradually, while pounding, three wineglasses of very cold cream, a little 
salt, white pepper and the whites of five eggs. When the mixture is a 
fine smooth paste, press it through a sieve and fill ten little buttered 
moulds. Place them in a saucepan, in which there is the depth of an 
inch of water ; cover the saucepan and send to the oven for ten min- 
utes or until the mixture is firm enough to turn out of the moulds. 
Serve with a sauce supreme or a sauce Allemande. 

For timbale of partridge proceed exactly as for timbale of chicken. 



20 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 

A RAGOUT TO FILL PATES, ETC. 

One tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of flour, one cup and 
a half of chicken broth, half a cup of the liquor from a can of mush- 
rooms, dice of cold chicken, truffles chopped and a few small oysters (a 
cup and a half in all) ; season with salt, pepper and a little nutmeg. 
Take out of the saucepan half a cup of the broth. 

CHICKEN LIVERS. 

Chop a small onion, and fry it in butter without allowing it to color ; 
put in the livers and some parsley, and fry until they are done ; take 
out the livers, add a little hot water or stock to the onions and parsley ; 
thicken it with some flour ; strain, season and pour over the livers. 

CHICKEN TERRAPIN. 

Boil two chickens until tender. Let them get cold, then cut into 
small pieces. Take the yolks of six eggs, and, after beating well, set 
them aside. Rub together two tablespoonfuls of flour and a half pound 
of butter. Heat one pint of milk and when it has come to a boil stir 
the butter and flour into it. Take from the fire and stir in beaten yolks, 
seasoning with one saltspoonful of salt, and a dash of cayenne pepper 
and four gratings of nutmeg. Put the saucepan containing the mix- 
ture back upon the fire, and stir in the chopped chicken. Let the 
mixture heat, but not come to a boil. Before serving put in half a 
pint of sherry or madeira wine. 

VALENCIAN RICE. 

Chop six medium-sized tomatoes rather fine. Have ready some lard 
very hot in a skillet, add the tomatoes and a cup of well washed rice. 
Cook until the rice becomes a beautiful golden brown and each grain 
separate. Boil a young chicken, skin and take ofif all the fat, cut in 
pieces and put on one side to keep warm. Just cover the rice and to- 
matoes with some of the stock, the chicken was boiled in. Add some 
parsley, green peas, carrots and tender celery cut in dice, then add the 
chicken and let it cook thoroughly. When done take ofif the top and 
let the steam come out. Never touch with a spoon, only shake from 
time to time. Put it in a baking dish embedding the chicken in the 
rice arranging on the top a piece of pepper and slices of fried bananas. 
Garnish with slices of carrots and red peppers to represent the Spanish 
colors, red and yellow. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 21 

BOUDINS. 

Three pounds of turkey or chicken breast, three sweet breads, one 
coffee cup of cream, three ounces butter, one can champignons, three 
eggs. Salt and pepper to taste. Run the meat through a grinder until 
well mixed. Add the other ingredients. Use half of the liquor from 
champignons, put into small moulds and cook in boiling water half an 
hour. Make a white sauce and put into it some of the champignons 
and a few trufifles. When you take out of the moulds pour the sauce 
hot over them before using. 

White Sauce. 

One pint of chicken stock, one-half pint cream or milk, three ounces 
butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour. Mix flour and butter thoroughly 
together, then stir into chicken stock and milk, and cook until it 
thickens. 

CFIICKEN GALATINE. 

One large chicken boiled and cut fine ; quarter of a pound of fine 
smoked tongue, mix with the chicken, flavor with salt, pepper and 
celery seed. Take the water the chicken was boiled in, boil down 
until reduced to half a pint, dissolve in it two tablespoons of gelatine. 
Line a bowl with slices of hard boiled eggs, put the meat in. pouring 
the liquor over it ; put in the ice chest to harden. Serve sliced on a 
piece of lettuce and a spoonful of Mayonnaise. You can put it in a 
cakepan with a funnel in the middle. When it is turned out and served 
fill the hole with ^layonnaise. 

Mrs. Tompkins. 
PARTRIDGES. 

Cut in halves the required number of partridges. Flatten them out 
and put in the bone of the second joint to form a kind of chop. Beat 
them lightly, season with salt and pepper and dip each in butter, 
melted ; roll in truffles, chopped quite fine and broil over a clear fire 
a quarter of an hour before dinner. Serve with sliced lemon, a sauce 
Piquante, or with plain fried parsley. Bread crumbs mixed with 
salt, pepper and grated tongue or ham may be used instead of truffles. 

PARTRIDGE PUDDING. 
Line pudding dish with a good suet crust and fill with partridges, 
cut into neat joints and little pieces of ham and bacon, kidneys, 
oysters, etc. Season with pepper, salt and a little grated lemon peel 
and onion. Cover with suet crust and either boil or steam. 



22 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 



PARTRIDGES WITH OYSTERS. 

Prepare the birds as for roasting ; fill the bodies with stuffing made 
by chopping the liver with oysters, butter, parsley, chevril ; salt and 
pepper to taste. Lay them in a stewpan with one ounce of butter ; 
when heated thoroughly set them on a dish, cut three slits on each 
side of the breast bone and insert in these a little red pepper with the 
juice of one half a lemon. Roast for thirty minutes. Blanch a dozen 
and a half good, large oysters. Lay them in a stewpan with a spoon- 
ful of grated ham and a gill of good gravy. Dish the partridges and 
pour the sauce round them. Serve with raspberry or currant jelly. 

SOUFFLEE DE FOIE GRAS. 

Cut one pound of calf's liver, half pound of fat salt pork and one 
onion into dice, season with a pinch of salt and fry for four minutes 
over a quick fire, shaking all the time. Pound and rub through a wire 
sieve ; while hot add two dozen truffles chopped fine and half a pint 
of good stock. Beat the mixture about ten minutes, and place in 
mould. Let it stand on ice three or four hours. Turn and serve. This 
dish may be varied by cooling jelly in the mould before putting in the 
mixture. Also you can whip half a pint of clear consomme or chicken 
broth, which should be jellied, with half a pint of good stock jellied, till 
both are light and spongy. Add this to a pint of stiff, whipped crearn, 
cayenne and a pinch of salt and a small tin of pate de foie gras. Stir 
together lightly and use around the mould as a garnish. 

LARDED CALF'S LIVER. 

Take a calf's liver, scald and remove the skin, lard it thick with fresh 
pork ; put in a dripping-pan with an onion stuck close with cloves, a 
lump of lard, a very little water and a little sweet marjorum or thyme. 
Simmer slowly five or six hours. 

TONGUE A LA TERRAPIN (BECKIE). 

Parboil the tongue the day before ; save a little of the liquor and put 
the tongue in it the next day, to warm, about an hour before dinner. 
Make the gravy of browned flour and butter, and the water in which 
the tongue has been boiled, adding a little cayenne pepper, salt, all- 
spice, cloves and a half a cup of wine. Cut up one or two hard-boiled 
eggs. Pour gravy over the tongue. 



RECIPES — OLD AND XEW. 



SOUFFLEE OF PARTRIDGES. 
Mince very fine the remains of cold roasted partridges, pound well 
with a little butter and stock ; season with pepper, salt, cayenne and 
truffles if any. Mix all this with the yolks of raw eggs, allowing two 
to each two ounces of meat, and just at last stir in lightly the whites 
of the eggs whipped to the stififest possible froth, with a pinch of salt. 
Pour the mixture into a soufflee dish, which must be buttered and hot. 
Bake twenty minutes. Serve immediately. 

PIMENTO DULCI FARCI. (SPANISH SWEET PEPPER.) 
Heat the pepper in its own juice or a little olive oil. Have ready 
some minced chicken mixed with cut olives, blanched almonds, raisins 
stoned and cut in four pieces, pepper, salt and a little chopped parsley. 
Stuff the peppers with the mixture, bind together and serve very hot. 



VEGATABLES. 

SPINACH. 
Wash thoroughly and cut off the ends of one peck of spinach; put 
into saucepan without any water, sprinkle over a little salt, and cover 
closely; shake occasionally while cooking. When tender drain well, 
and wash through a colander; put back in a saucepan, saute it a few 
minutes with a good-sized piece of butter, pepper and salt, and a tea- 
spoonful of vinegar. Serve with hard-boiled eggs, quartered. Some 
like a little nutmeg seasoning. 

Mrs. W. a. Fisher. 

SPINACH SOUFFLE. 
The spinach must be boiled or stirred in a buttered saucepan with 
just enough water to prevent its burning. When cooked it must be 
pressed thoroughly dry, chopped very fine, rubbed through a fine 
sieve, and put in a saucepan with two ounces of butter and a gill of 
cream. To every pound of spinach add a little nutmeg, pepper and 
salt, and sugar, if desired. When it is a smooth, green paste, take it 
from the fire, let it cool slightly, and then work into it the yolks of 
three raw eggs. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, and add when the 
mixture is cold. Put it in a china souffle dish, and bake for forty min- 
utes in a moderate oven. 



24 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 

CABBAGE PUDDING. 

Select a large, firm white cabbage, and boil for twenty minutes, then 
change the water for more, from a boiling kettle. When tender, drain 
well and set aside until cold, when the cabbage must be chopped fine 
and mixed with two well beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of salt, pepper, 
and butter, and one gill of rich milk o^" cream. Stir all well together, 
and bake in a buttered dish. To be very hot when served. 

TOMATOES AND EGGS. 
One quart of stewed tomatoes, a little grated onion, half cup of grated 
bread crumbs. Beat five eggs to a froth, and stir the hot tomatoes 
into them. Cook in a double boiler, stirring it constantly in from the 
edge, and adding a little butter and a very little salt. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

Take some large, mild peppers; soak them for a few days in salt and 
water, changing constantly to make them less pungent. Cut out the 
vein. that makes hot, and stuff them with force meat. The force meat 
is best made of chicken, seasoned with salt, butter, parsley, chopped 
up with a knife, that has been drawn through an onion, some sweet 
herbs and some grated bread. Stuf? the peppers and fry them in but- 
ter. To be served with a rich gravy, or with demi-glace sauce. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 
Select large, smooth tomatoes, and slice off neatly the end of each. 
Scoop out the inside and mix with a little finely-grated bread, a dash 
of white sugar, some salt, pepper, and a tablespoonful of butter. When 
thoroughly mixed stuff the tomatoes, fit the tops on neatly, put on a 
deep dish, and bake about three-quarters of an hour, or until a light 
brown. The stuffing can be made of force meat, if desired. 

PUREE OF CHESTNUTS, TO SERVE AS SAUCE FOR 
SWEETBREADS, POULTRY OR BREADED CHOPS. 

One quart of Italian chestnuts; cut the shells once each way, and 
put them in the oven until the shells come off. Take off the broken 
skin and put the chestnuts into a pint of stock or salted water, and boil 
twenty minutes, or till tender. Then rub them through a puree sieve, 
put in a stew pan, and add a tablespoonful of melted butter, a little salt 
and pepper, and heat. 

Miss E. Holt. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 



POTATO CROQUETTES. 
Six potatoes boiled and dried; grate over them a small onion; beat an 
egg and pour over the potatoes, and beat all well together until light 
and smooth. Shape them and roll in eggs, then dried bread crumbs, 
and fry to a light brown. Particularly nice served at luncheon. 

Mrs. E. a. Jenkins. 

STUFFED POTATOES. 
Wash ten good-sized potatoes; bake them and cut the tops off with 
a very sharp knife, and with a teaspoon scoop out the inside of each 
potato. Put this in a bowl with two ounces of butter, the yolks of two 
eggs, a pinch of salt, pepper and sugar. Fill the skins of the potatoes 
with this mixture, put the tops on, heat them well in the oven, and 
serve very hot, covered with a napkin. The stuffing may be varied, 
substituting meat finely chopped for some of the potato filling. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Take two cupfuls of cold mashed potatoes, add two ounces melted 
butter, and beat all to a cream. Then add two well-beaten eggs and 
half pint of cream or milk, and salt to taste. Beat well together, pour 
into a deep baking dish, and bake in a quick oven. 

POTATO SOUFFLE. 
Wash and bake three large potatoes. Cut in halves lengthwise, and 
without breaking the skin scoop out the potatoes into a hot bowl- 
Mash and add one even tablespoonful of butter, one of hot milk, and 
salt and pepper to taste. Beat the whites of two eggs stiff, and mix 
with the potato. Fill the skins with the mixture, heaping it lightly on 
the top. Brown slightly in the oven and serve. 

SWEET POTATO AND CHESTNUT SOUFFLE^ 

Boil separately some sweet potatoes and some ripe chestnuts, put- 
ting a little sugar in the water in which the chestnuts are boiled. Mash 
all well together, and add some cream and butter, and beat until light. 
Then place for a minute or two in the oven to brown. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS. 
Take one pint of button mushrooms, cut off the stalks and pare 
neatly; put them in a bowl of water and squeeze over them a little 



26 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 

lemon juice. Then take them from the water, draining them very 
carefully, and put them into a stew pan with three ounces of butter, a 
little white pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon. Cover the pan 
tightly, and let them stew for twenty-five minutes. Then thicken the 
butter with one teaspoonful of flour, and add gradually enough cream 
or rich milk to make the sauce of a proper consistency, adding lastly 
a little grated nutmeg. If the mushrooms are not quite tender, stew 
a little longer; carefully skim ofif any floating particles of butter, and 
serve on hot dish. 

MUSHROOMS ON TOAST. 
Take one pound of large, sound mushrooms, cut ofif the ends, wash 
and clean them. Place them in a sautoire, with an ounce of good but- 
ter, and season with a little salt and pepper. Cover them and cook for 
ten minutes, tossing them well all the time. Add the juice of half a 
small lemon, and a little chopped parsley. Toast some bread well, and 
evenly place the mushrooms on the toast, and serve on a hot dish. 

BROILED MUSHROOMS. 
Take fine, fresh mushrooms, cut ofif the stems, and lay in a deep dish, 
rubbing them well with melted butter; add salt and pepper, and let 
them lie in the butter for an hour or more. Then boil over a clear fire, 
turning the broiler to let both sides brown. Serve on a hot dish. 
Squeeze a few drops of lemon juice on each mushroom, and add butter 
and pepper and salt, if required. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Cut ofif the root end of eighteen or twenty mushrooms and throw 
the latter into cold water, mixed with a little vinegar; wash, drain, 
wipe and peel them and cut oiif the stalks; put fourteen or fifteen of 
the mushrooms head downward on a buttered baking tin; then chop 
fine the rest together with the stalks, an equal amount of parsley and 
a shallot previously blanched. Fry this mince for five minutes, with 
half an ounce of butter, then add half a pint of good brown sauce and 
boil till quite thick. Divide this among the previously prepared mush- 
rooms. Cover with bread crumbs and bake fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Serve on toast. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

One pint of grated corn, one cup of flour, one teaspoonful of pep- 
per, one teaspoonful of salt, one egg. Fry by the spoonful in boiling 
lard. 



-OLD AXD NEW. 27 



OYSTER CAKES. 

One pint of grated green corn, two teaspoonfuls of pepper, three tea- 
spoonfuls of salt, four teaspoonfuls of butter, one pint of flour, half a 
pint of milk, two eggs. Bake on a griddle. 

CORN PUDDING. 
Take twelve ears of corn, split each row of grains with back of knife, 
then scrape the ears with back of knife, if they are well filled; if not, 
cut off the grains without scraping. This corn, mixed with one and a 
half pints of milk, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one spoonful 
of butter, salt and pepper to taste, makes a delicious dish for dinner. 

Mrs. H. C. Dallam. 

A FRENCH WAY TO COOK EGG PLANT. 
Select one firm and fresh; peel it with a sharp knife so that the 
smooth outline is not broken. If large the plant is then cut into quar- 
ters; if of medium size, into halves. Let it lie for half an hour in salt 
water. Then put it into boiling water with a little salt. It is cooked 
enough when it can be easily pierced with a straw. While it is boiling 
cut one medium sized onion into very small pieces, and cover it with 
salt water. In ten minutes pour off the water and put the chopped 
onion into a skillet with a little butter, and fry it brown. Drain the 
egg plant in a colander, and put it into a large earthenware bowl. 
With a silver fork stir it until it is broken up, but do not really mash 
it, or it will not be light when done. Mix with the egg plant one-half 
its bulk of bread crumbs. Add the browned onions and one well- 
beaten egg. Season with salt and pepper, and add a dessertspoonful 
of butter. Put all this into a well-buttered baking dish and bake until 
nicely browned. Serve hot in the dish in which it was baked. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT. 
Take a large egg plant and parboil it. being careful not to let it get 
soft. Take it from the fire and cut it lengthwise; take all the inside 
iiut, (leaving the skin about half an inch thick) ; chop it quite fine, with 
a little onion, salt and pepper, a teaspoonful of sugar, mixing with it 
as much bread crumbs as egg plant, and some dried herbs. Have 
ready in a skillet a tablespoonful of butter, and when hot put in the 
mixture and let it cook about ten minutes, stirring it. Then return to 
the shells, put in an oven, and let it cook for half an hour. Serve in 
the shells. Mrs. W. A. Fisher. 



28 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 



ASPARAGUS FORCED IN FRENCH ROLL. 

Take three French rolls; take out the crumbs, first cutting a piece of 
the top crust off, but be careful that the crusts fit again the same place. 
Fry the rolls brown in fresh butter; then take a pint of cream, the yolks 
of six eggs well beaten, a little salt and nutmeg, and stir well together 
over a slow fire until it begins to thicken. Have ready some boiled 
asparagus, and save enough tops to stick in the rolls, the rest cut small, 
put into the cream, and fill the loaves. Before you fry the rolls make 
holes in the top crust, and when you fit it on, after filling the loaves, 
stick the grass in, that it may look as if it were growing. 

Old English Recipes. 

These "rolls" are small loaves, not the French rolls of today. 

ASPARAGUS PUDDING. 

Half a pint of asparagus peas, four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
one tablespoonful of finely chopped ham. one ounce of butter, pepper 
and salt to taste, and milk. Cut up the nice, tender parts of asparagus, 
about the size of peas; put them into a basin with the eggs, which 
should be well beaten, and the flour, ham, butter, pepper and salt. Mix 
all these ingredients well together, and moisten with sufficient milk to 
make the pudding of the consistency of thick butter; put it into a pint 
buttered mould, tie down tightly with a floured cloth, place it in boiling 
water, and let it boil two hours; turn it out of the mould on a hot dish, 
and pour plain melted butter around, but not over the pudding. 



SALADS AND SAUCES. 



MOCK PINEAPPLE SALAD. 

Take four large apples, six oranges, one wineglass of sherry and pow- 
dered sugar to taste. Core and pare the apples and slice them against 
the grain of the fruit. Peel the oranges and remove all the outside 
white pulp. Slice them thicker than the apples and like them crosswise. 
Lay a slice of orange upon each slice of apple, and put all in a glass dish. 
Save all the orange juice for the syrup, and pour it and the wine over 
the fruit after sifting powdered sugar over it. If the salad is too sweet 
a little lemon juice can be added to the syrup. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 29 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Take three pounds of boiled lobster, cut up the meat and lay in a 
dish, seasoning with a little pepper, salt and a tablespoonful of vinegar. 
Mix well together and place in a salad bowl, in which are some lettuce 
leaves, and pour over the mixture some good Mayonnaise dressing. 
Decorate with the coral of the lobster and sliced hard boiled eggs. If 
desired a little cut up celery can be added to the lobster before the May- 
onnaise sauce is added. Shrimp salad can be made by the same recipe. 

FRUIT SALAD. 
Fruit Salads are made by piling the fruit on a dish and sprinkling pow- 
dered sugar over them. After they have stood awhile a wineglass of 
wine or brandy or some good liqueur should be poured in the centre, 
and some add a little powdered cinnamon. These salads may be made 
of strawberries, raspberries, currants, separately or mixed. Peaches 
and oranges also make a good salad. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Boil a tender chicken, let it become cold and then remove all skin and 
gristle and take the meat from the bones, cutting it in dice or little 
square pieces. Cut some fresh white celery into pieces about half an 
inch in length and mix with the chicken, stirring well into them a mix- 
ture composed of three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one tablespoonful of 
oil, and pepper, salt and mustard to taste. Set this aside for two hours 
or more to let the chicken and celery absorb the dressing. When about 
to serve mix with the chicken and celery a good sauce Mayonnaise. 
Heap the salad in a little mound, covering it with the sauce. The top 
can be decorated with sprigs of celery, and the dish garnished with slices 
or quarters of hard-boiled eggs, or with thin slices of cold cooked beets, 
or strips of anchovy. If the salad is made with lettuce instead of celery 
follow above directions, leaving out celery, and just before serving add 
to the chicken some tender leaves of lettuce, then cover all with a good 
Mayonnaise dressing. Many of the great French cooks fry the fowls 
for salad. 

TOMATO JELLY. 

Half a can or two cupfuls of tomatoes, three cloves, one bay leaf, one 

slice of onion, half teaspoonful of thyme, one teaspoonful of salt, one 

teaspoonful of sugar, one quarter teaspoonful of pepper, half ounce of 

gelatine, soaked in half a cupful of water. Boil together the tomatoes. 



yO RECIPES OLD AND NEW. 



spices and onion until the tomatoes are soft, then add the soaked gela- 
tine and stir until the gelatine is dissolved, then strain and pour it into 
a border or ring-shaped mould to set. Serve with the centre of the jelly 
ring filled with celery, cut into pieces and mixed with Mayonnaise 
dressing. Form outside the ring a wreath of lettuce. Or mould the 
Tomato Jelly in a solid piece and surround it with celery and lettuce. 

WATER CRESS SALAD. 

Take three or four bunches of fresh water cress, cut off the stalks, 
wash thoroughly and put in a dish with a pinch of salt and pepper and 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Mix thoroughly and serve. 

BEET AND BEAN SALAD. 

Take one quart of Lima beans, wash and drain them and wipe dry; 
place them in a dish with an equal quantity of pickled beets, cut into 
small squares. Try to arrange them tastefully in circles around the 
dish, and season with a teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar and six of good olive oil. Serve very cold. 

CAULIFLOWER SALAD. 

Take a cooked Cauliflower, cut off the root and place the leaves in a 
dish, seasoning with a little salt, pepper and half a teaspoonful of chop- 
ped parsley. Mix together three tablespoonfuls of vinegar and two of 
olive oil; pour over the Cauliflower and serve. 

BEAN SALAD. 

Take one quart of cold boiled string beans cut in thin slices about an 
inch long, half an onion cut into slices, a tablespoonful and a half of 
chopped parsley, four tablespoonfuls of oil, one tablespoonful and a 
half of good vinegar and a little salt and pepper. ^lix well together 
and serve. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Cut ten or twelve cold boiled potatoes into slices half an inch in thick- 
ness; put them in a salad bowl with four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, six 
tablespoonfuls of oil, pepper and salt to taste and a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley. Stir well so that all may be thoroughly mixed. 
Slices of cold ham or tongue or of cold chicken can be served with this 
salad. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 31 

ASPx\RAGUS SALAD. 
Pound to a paste the yolk of one hard-boiled egg with two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. Add a little salt and a pinch of pepper, half a tea- 
spoonful of scraped onion and two tablespoonfuls of olive oil. Pour 
this over the Asparagus and serve. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 
Take two fine heads of lettuce, cut ofif the outside leaves and stems, 
cut the leaves in two. Wash thoroughly in cold water and drain in a 
wire basket, then put in a china bowl with the hearts on top. Mix half 
a pinch of salt and a third of a pinch of pepper in one tablespoonful of 
good vinegar, and add one and a half tablespoonfuls of sweet oil. Pour 
this over the lettuce and garnish with slices of hard boiled eggs. If you 
have no olive oil substitute three tablespoonfuls of sweet cream. 

CHICKEN SALAD (CAREME'S RECIPE). 
Take some tender pullets; fry them in a saute pan or roast them; 
when cold, skin and trim neatly and cut into small pieces. Put the pieces 
into a bowl with some salt, pepper, a little onion and parsley, some oil 
and vinegar. Mix well, cover and let stand for some hours, then drain 
the salad, being careful to remove the onion; place it on lettuce leaves, 
which have been washed, and cover with Mayonnaise dressing. 

SAUCE MAYONNAISE. 
Take the yolks of two eggs, put them in a bowl with half a teaspoon- 
ful of ground dry mustard, salt, pepper and a little lemon juice. Stir 
all together with a wooden spoon and add by slow degrees a few drops 
at a time, stirring all the time a tablespoonful of vinegar. Then a few 
drops at a time add half a pint of olive oil. A little cayenne can be 
added if desired. Stir vigorously while adding the oil. 

FRENCH DRESSING FOR SALADS. 
Mix well together one saltspoonful of salt, the same of pepper, three 
tablespoonfuls of oil, one tablespoonful of vinegar, one teaspoonful 
of scraped onion. When mixed pour over the salad. 

TRUFFLE SAUCE. 
Chop very fine a half dozen truffles and a clove of garlic ; add two 
ounces of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt and a quarter of a teaspoon 
of pepper. Put the saucepan on the fire and stir and cook ten minutes; 
add a quarter of a pint of stock and a wineglass of white wine. Simmer 
for twenty minutes, and skim off the grease. 



32 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Take a handful of fresh bakers' bread, two cloves of garlic and a table- 
spoonful of horseradish flour ; pour a cup of fresh cream over all and let 
it stand three hours, then pass through a tiny sieve, then add a quarter 
of a teaspoonful of salt, then the same of sugar and two tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar. 

Mrs. Amory. 
SAUCE FOR FISH. 

]\Ielt a piece of butter in a saucepan with a tablespoonful of flour; a 
cupful of stock and two small cups of light wine, onions, salt and pepper 
and let it cook together for half an hour. Cook your fish in this mix- 
ture, take it out when done, thicken with yolks of eggs and pour over 
your fish. Serve very hot. 

Miss McCandlish. 
HOT SPICE. 

Three drachms each of ginger, black pepper and cinnamon, seven 
cloves, half ounce mace, quarter of a pound of cayenne, one ounce 
grated nutmeg, one and a half ounces white pepper. Pound the ingre- 
dients and mix thoroughly until everything is blended. Put in a per- 
fectly dry glass bottle for use. Can be added to gravy, meats, etc. 

INDIAN AIUSTARD. 

Qu.'irter of a pound of the best mustard, quarter of a pound of flour, 
half ounce of salt, four shallots, four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, four 
tablespoonfuls of catsup, quarter of a bottle of anchovy sauce. Put the 
mustard, flour and salt into a bowl and make them into a stiflf paste with 
boiling water. Boil the shallots with the vinegar, catsup and anchovy 
sauce for ten minutes, and pour the whole, boiling hot, over the mix- 
ture in the bowl. Stir well and reduce to a proper thickness. Put it 
into a bottle with a bruised shallot at the bottom, and store away for 
use. Will keep for years. 

English Receipts. 
SAUCE ROBERT. 

Two ounces of butter, three onions, one teaspoonful of flour, four 
tablespoonfuls of gravy or stock, salt and pepper to taste, one teaspoon- 
ful of made mustard, one teaspoonful of vinegar, the piece of half a 
lemon. Put the butter into a saucepan on the fire, and when browning 
throw in the onions cut into small slices. Fry brown, but do not burn; 
add the flour, shake the onions in it and give the whole another fry. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 33 



Put in til-: stock or gravy and the seasoning, and boil it gently for ten 
minutes; skim off the fat, add the mustard, vinegar and lemon juice. 
Give it one boil and pour over the steak or meat it has been prepared for. 

SWEET SAUCE FOR VENISON. 

One glass of currant jelly, one glass of port wine, stew together over 
the firo, and when melted pour into a sauce boat and serve. It should 
not come to a boil. 

SAUCE TARTARE. 

Chop up one shallot very fine with a tablespoonful of parsley, half a 
tablespoonful of tarragon leaves and twelve capers chopped fine. Put 
these in a china bowl with half a teaspoonful of ground mustard, the 
yolk of two eggs, a teaspoonful of vinegar added very slowly, a drop at 
a time, a pinch of salt and very little pepper. Pour in very slowly while 
stirring continuously, half a pint of good olive oil, and if too thick add 
a little more vinegar. 

SPANISH SAUCE. 

Melt twc ounces of butter in a saucepan, to which add two ounces of 
fiour, and cook slowly over a gentle fire until brown; then mix with the 
flour and butter one pint of good stock or consomme, an ounce and a 
half of lean raw ham, a few cloves, an onion, a little celerj', a carrot, a 
pinch of salt and pepper, and stir until it begins to boil. Then set the 
saucepan to the back of the range, and let it simmer gently for about an 
hour, when the grease must be carefully skimmed off and the mixture 
strained before serving. Madeira Sauce can be made by adding one 
wineglass of Madeira to half a pint of Spanish Sauce. 

SAUCE HOLLANDAISE. 

Put a bit of butter the size of a walnut into a saucepan, and when it 
bubbles up stir in vkrith a whisk, a tablespoonful of fiour. Let it bubble 
until the flour is cooked, then stir in half pint of veal stock. (Half a 
pi it of boiling water can be used in place of veal stock if none is at 
hand.) When it boils take it from the fire and stir into it gradually the 
w^Il- beaten yolks of four eggs. Put the sauce on the fire for a few 
moments until the eggs are set, but do not allow it to boil. Take it 
from the fire, stir in the piece of half a lemon, a piece of butter the size 
of a walnut, and mix thoroughly with a whisk. When light and smooth 
it is readv for use. 



34 RECIPES — OLD AXD NEW. 

BLACK BUTTER SAUCE. 

Warm an ounce of good butter in a frying pan until it turns brown; 
aid somo parsley, heat again for one minute, then drop in carefully five 
drops of vinegar. » 

DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE. 
Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan, stirring in two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour; moisten with one quart of water, seasoned with one table- 
spoonful of salt and half a teaspoonful of pepper. Let it simmer for 
thirty minutes or until it thickens, when add gradually half an ounce of 
butter, stirring or beating the mixture until it becomes white. Squeeze 
in tlic piece- of one lemon; stir well, strain through a fine seive and serve. 

ANCHOVY SAUCE. 
To one pint of drawn butter sauce add one heaping tablespoonful of 
An.'.hovy essence, stir well together and serve. 

SHRLMP SAUCE. 
To half a pint of drawn-butter sauce add one-third of a pint of boiled 
shrimps, either whole or cut in pieces. Let the sauce simmer, but it 
nuist not boil. Just before removing it from the fire add a little seed 
pepper and a few drops of lemon juice. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

Add oysters, strained from their liquor, to a drawn-butter sauce made 
with part cream; let it come to a boil. 

SAUCE VELOUTE. 

Melt one ounce of good butter in a saucepan, adding two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour and stir well, not letting it get brown; moisten with a pint 
and a half of good veal or chicken stock. Add a bouquet of herbs, half 
a cupful of mushroom liquor, if at hand, a pinch of salt, a very little nut- 
meg. Boil for twenty minutes, stirring continuously, then remove to 
the side of the fire, skim thoroughly and let it simmer gently for an hour. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 
Place in a saucepan one carrot, one onion, an ounce of uncooked ham, 
a little thyme, two cloves, a clove of garlic and half an ounce of butter. 
Simmer gently for ten or twelve minutes, then add half a pint of to- 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 35 

nialoos which have been mixed with half an ounce of flour and half a 
pint of stock. Season with salt and pepper, boil for half an hour; strain 
and serve. 

SAUCE FOR FRIED HALIBUT. 

Put in saucepan one pint of cream, one onion cut in half, season 
highly, thicken with flour; when done, take out onion, pour over fried 
halibut; sprinkle freely with Parmesan cheese and bake a few minutes 
uvttil browned. Have halibut cut in sizes to serve. 

^Irs. Geo. D.vllas Dixon. 

SAUCE A'LA BURNET FOR FISH. 

A rounded tablespoonful of grated onion and the same of grated car- 
rot. Quarter of a pound of butter. Teaspoonful of paprica. After 
onion and carrot are browned, add a large peeled tomato; when well 
cooked, thin with melted sugar. 

Mrs. Geo. Dallas Dixon. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

Put in a saucepan two ounces of butter, add two tablespoonfuls of 
flour and stir constantly for five minutes. Moisten with a pint and a 
half of boiling milk, being careful to pour it in gradually, then beat 
briskly with a whisk. Add half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, a little 
salt, a bunch of herbs and a little mushroom liquor, if at hand. Cool 
thoroughly for fifteen or twenty minutes, and when done pass through a 
fine sieve. Some whole peppers can be added to above ingredients if 
desired. 

SAUCE AUX FINES HERBES 

To half a pint of good stock add three tablespoonfuls of mushrooms, 
one tablc?poonful of onions, two tablespoonfuls of parsley and one shal- 
lot, all choppped very fine. Fry together in butter the onion and shallot 
until they turn to a light yellow, then add a tablespoonful of flour and 
cook it ont or two minutes. Stir in the stock and mushrooms and par- 
sley; let it cook slowly a few minutes and add pepper and salt to taste. 



36 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 



TURKEY OR CHICKEN DRESSING. 

Half a pound of sausage, half a teaspoonful of sage, half a teaspoonful 
of thyme, half a teaspoonful of parsley, one onion, of good size, one 
saltspoonful paprica pepper, one saltspoonful of black pepper, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, quarter of a pound stale bread, one-third of a box of 
mushrooms, one-third of small box of truffles, quarter of a pound of 
suet, two raw eggs, beaten a little; half a pound of French chestnuts, 
broiled and cut to dry out. Chop everything together very fine. 

Mrs. Geo. Dallas Dixon. 



DESSERTS-ICES AND JELLIES. 

JELLY MADE IN AN HOUR. 

To one box of Cox's Gelatine, (or one ounce of isinglass,) add one 
pint of cold water, the juice of three lemons and the rinds cut very thin; 
let this stand one hour, then add one quart of boiling water, one pint of 
wine, and one and a half pounds of crushed sugar. When the sugar is 
dissolved, strain the whole through a fine sieve into a bowl and throw 
into it a few of the lemon rinds, and set it away to cool. The wine 
must be table sherry. 

BLANC MANGE. 

One ounce of isinglass, one and one-half pints of cream, nine ounces 
of white sugar, one wineglass of table sherry, or one tablespoonful of 
bitter almonds. Dissolve the isinglass in a pint of boiling water by 
setting it over the fire^ stirring it all the time. Dissolve the sugar into 
the cream. Strain the hot isinglass, when thoroughly dissolved, into 
the cream and sugar and if necessary strain the whole into another 
bowl. Add the seasoning to your taste. Continue to stir it until it 
begins to congeal along the sides and pour quickly into the moulds and 
set in a cool place. (Fill the moulds previously with cold water, so 
they will be cool to receive the Blanc Mange, pouring out the water 
when you are ready to fill them.) 

CALF'S OR PIG'S FEET JELLY. 

Twelve pig's feet, put on with ten quarts water, let it boil all day, till 
reduced to four quarts. Strain out the feet and put the stock in the 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 37 

yard to stay all night. The next morning remove most carefully the 
grease that is on the top, wash it over with a napkin dipped in hot 
water, as the least particle of grease clouds the jelly. To each four 
quarts of stock, add eight eggs, very little beaten, whole mace and whole 
cinnamon. Two and one-half pints good sherry, one and one-half 
pints cider and half pint rum, the juice of eight lemons and some of 
the rind very carefully peeled. The sugar is added to each one's taste. 
Put in the liquors, as the jelly begins to boil, then stir it altogether and 
when it boils back clear, strain through a jelly strainer till perfectly 
clear. It is very important that the feet should be perfectly fresh, the 
least bit of salt spoils the jelly. The meat taken out of the jelly makes 
very good souse, either cold or to fry, take out the bones, season with 
vinegar and spices or only with salt. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Two pineapples, wine, oranges, nine to twelve bananas, the juice of 
two lemons. Any other fruit you may wish, apricots are nice. Cut 
the pineapples and oranges in small pieces ; slice the bananas ; put all 
in a colander and drain; heat the juice and add four or five tablespoon- 
fuls of dissolved gelatine; add the fruit and sweeten to taste; turn into a 
flat pan and let it stand until the next day; turn over in a platter and 
cut in squares. 

BION VOS. 

Box of gelatine, one-half pint cold water, let it stand a few minutes, 
add one-half pint of boiling water, stir until thoroughly dissolved, 
sweeten and flavor with vanilla. Whip one and one-half pints of cream 
to a stifif froth, mix together; set away to cool. Serve with cream 
whipped to a froth. 

TRIFLE. 

Take sponge cake baked the day previous, cut in squares and place in 
a cut glass bowl and pour over them as much table sherry as they will 
absorb. Make a rich custard, seasoned with vanilla and when cold pour 
over the cake and wine, then pile on top of this as much whipped 
cream as will fill the bowl. Do not put sugar in the cream. Some- 
times you may stick the cake full of blanched almonds. 



38 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 

CUSTARD. 

Nine eggs, one quart of rich milk, seven ounces of white sugar and 
vanilla to your taste. Beat the yolks and whites together very light, 
then add the sugar, boil the milk and pour slowly over the eggs and 
sugar, pour it back into the kettle and cook for five minutes, stirring it 
all the time. Season with vanilla after you take it ofif the fire. 

BURNT CREAM. 

Six eggs to two quarts of milk, beat the eggs very light and add 
one tablespoonful of sugar to every egg. As soon as the milk boils up 
stir in the eggs and continue to stir while on the fire, take it ofif and let 
it cool. Then just before dinner take the whites of the eggs and beat 
them to a froth, put them over the bowl of custard, and sift white 
sugar thick over it. then hold a red hot oven top over the bowl until 
the sugar and white of eggs are nicely browned, then let it cool for 
dinner. In cold weather this may be all prepared in the morning, as 
it will not fall before dinner. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

Put on the fire in a saucepan a pint and a half of milk, the yolks of 
eight eggs, three quarters of a pound of sugar and one cupful of strong 
black coffee, stir constantly but do not let it come to a boil. When it 
thickens strain it, set it away until cold, then pour into a mould and 
freeze. 

LEMON WATER ICE. 

Boil three pints of water and one quart of loaf sugar until reduced 
to one quart, skimming ofif the scum as it rises. Take it ofif, let it cool 
and add the juice of six large lemons and the rind of three cut very 
thin. Let it stand for an hour then strain and put into the freezer. 
Before the mixture has begun to harden stir in the whites of three 
eggs beaten to a froth, then cover tightly and freeze. 

PEACH ICE CREAM. 

Cut fresh ripe peaches, lay them on a china dish, sprinkle them with 
sugar and leave them for an hour, then add fresh cream, sweetened 
to taste, pour into a mould and freeze. The proportions are one quart 
of fruit to one quart of cream. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 39 

ORANGE WATER ICE. 

Boil together one quart of water and three quarters of a pound of 
sugar for ten or twelve minutes, then take it from the fire and let it 
cool. Squeeze the juice from twelve oranges and three lemons, strain, 
rub a lump of loaf sugar on the rind of an orange and add to the mix- 
ture; pour in sugar and water and freeze. 

STRAWBERRY MOUSSE. 

Press through a sieve a sufficient quantity of strawberries to make a 
pint of juice, add to it one and a half pounds of sugar and two quarts 
of cream, put into a freezer and when half frozen stir into it quickly a 
pint of whipped cream; then put it in a mould for two hours surrounded 
by ice and rock salt. Then turn it out and serve. 

cafe' MOUSSE. 

Take a pint of whipped cream, add three tablespoonfuls of cofifee 
essence, beat well together, put it in a china bowl and set on ice or in 
a cold ice box. When ready to serve, drop the cream with a spoon 
into the centre of a round dish, heaping it in pyramidal form if possi- 
ble. Serve as quickly as possible. Whipped cream may be added to 
any kind of plain ice cream. 

ICE CREAM. 

Scald one pint cream, add to it one-half pound sugar, dissolve one 
tablespoonful of gelatine in a little milk and add to the hot cream, which 
will give to it an exquisite creaminess. Flavor with vanilla bean, or 
any flavoring. When cold add one pint whipped cream, freeze; when 
half frozen put in a melon mould and pack in ice. This may be varied 
by adding two stale macaroons, crumbled fine, and some sherry wine. 

Mrs. W. a. Fisher. 

CURRANT ICE. 

Boil your currants and strain them; to a pint of juice put a quart of 
water and sugar to your taste. 



40 RECIPES — OED AND NEW. 

LEMON SHERBET. 

One tablespoonful of gelatine dissolved in a little cold water and 
cleared with enough boiling water to make a quart. White of one egg 
without beating. Juice of three lemons and pulverized sugar to taste, 
remembering that it is not so sweet after it is frozen. Strain altogether 
and freeze. This quantity will make a quart. It is snow white and 
very nice. 

CUSTARD ICE CREAM. 

Three pints of new milk boiled, the yolks of eight eggs beaten up, 
one pint of white sugar, the milk to be poured on the eggs and sugar 
while boiling. Put it on the fire to thicken a little, season with rose or 
peach water to your taste, or lemon. When you use lemon the whites 
of eggs must be used instead of yolks. The peel of one and the juice of 
two lemons. 

Eliza Talley. 

BAKED ICE CREAM. 

Take a flat round sponge cake, place on this a mould of very hard 
frozen ice cream, cover with a meringue of white of egg sweetened 
and flavored and brown with a red hot salamander. Serve at once. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING. (CAREME'S.) 

Ingredients: Forty chestnuts, one pound of sugar, flavoring of va- 
nilla, one pint of cream, yolks of twelve eggs, one glass of Maraschino, 
one ounce of candied citron, two ounces of currants, two ounces of 
stoned raisins. Blanch the chestnuts in boiling water, remove the 
husks and pound them in a mortar until perfectly smooth adding a few 
spoonfuls of syrup. Then rub them through a fine sieve and mix 
them in a basin with a pint of syrup made from one pound of clarified 
sugar, flavored with vanilla, one pint of cream and the yolks of twelve 
eggs. Set this over a slow fire stirring without ceasing until the eggs 
begin to thicken then take it oiT. When cold put in the freezer and 
add the Maraschino and make the mixture set. Then add the sliced 
citron, the currants and stoned raisins, (these two latter should be soak- 
ed the day before in Maraschino and sugar pounded with vanilla), to 
the whole. Then add a plateful of whipped cream mixed with the 
whites of three eggs beaten to a frotli with a little syrup. When the 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 41 

pudding is frozen put it into a mould, close the lid, place it again in 
the freezer, well surrounded with pounded ice and saltpetre and let it 
remain until time of serving. 

MACAROON ICE CREAM. 

Put six ounces of macaroons into the oven and let them dry for a 
few minutes. Then let them cool for fifteen or twenty minutes and 
when cool pound them well in a mortar and sift them over a sheet of 
white paper. Have ready some vanilla ice cream, add to it the sifted 
macaroons mixing thoroughly with the spatula. Then pour into a 
mould cover tightly and freeze. 



PUDDINGS, PIES AND CAKES. 

TIPSY CAKE. 

Make a sponge cake and bake in jelly cake pans; put a whole one in 
a large glass bowl. Have ready one pound of blanched almonds, and 
stick about in the cake. Fill the bowl three-quarters full in this way, 
and saturate the cake with good wine. Pour over this one quart of 
cold custard, and on top of this rich syllabub. Do not arrange this in 
the bowl till just before it is served. It is a beautiful dish, either for 
dessert or tea. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

Cream, one pint, perfectly sweet; milk, half pint, perfectly sweet; 
gelatine, one-third of a box. Boil the milk; stir gelatine in while hot, 
till dissolved. Let it cool; pour into the cream, and flavor with fresh 
lemon or vanilla. Beat this hard till it thickens. Make a rich pastry 
and bake in puff pans. When it is cold put a large share of the mix- 
ture into each pastry. 

SECESSION PUDDING. 

Flour, three cups; eggs, four; milk, one cup; raisins, two cups, (or 
currants); butter, one large cup; soda, a light teaspoonful. Beat just 
as cake, and boil in pudding bag for three hours.* Serve with hot wine 
sauce. 



*Leaving some room in bag for pudding to rise. Flour bag well be- 
fore pouring in batter. 



42 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 

CARDINAL PUDDING. 
Take a loaf of sponge cake; cut it through twice; put sweetmeats be- 
tween the sHces, and pour over it half a pint of wine. Then make a 
rich custard and pour over the cake and ornament the top, with citron 
cut in slices and blanched almonds. Mrs. Marshall. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Juice of two oranges and one lemon and the rind of the lemon 
grated; the whites and yolks of three eggs beaten separately; two cups 
of sugar; one of milk; one tablespoonful of melted butter; two table- 
spoonfuls, (not heaping), of flour. Bake in pie crust. This quantity 
will make two pies. Mrs. E. A. Jenkins. 

PLUM OR FRUIT PUDDING. 

One pound of grated stale bread; one small teacup of flour mixed 
with the bread; twelve ounces of butter creamed as for cake; one 
saucer of dried cherries; one saucer of preserved damsons; eight eggs, 
whites and yolks beaten very light, with one cup of brown sugar, or 
white if preferred, the bread, butter and fruit to be mixed together, 
and then made up into a stifT batter with the eggs; to be tied up in a 
towel and boiled as an apple dumpling. Raisins and citron mixed may 
take the place of the cherries and damsons if preferred. 

Virginia. 
Mrs. Braxton's Recipe. 

ANOTHER RECIPE FOR FRUIT PUDDING. 

One stale loaf of baker's bread, three pounds of currants, two pounds 
of raisins, two pounds of almonds, (blanched), twelve eggs, one pound 
of suet, one tumblerful of brandy, one tumblerful of wine, (sherry), two 
nutmegs, one pound of sugar, one teaspoonful of cloves, one teaspoon- 
ful of allspice, one teaspoonful of mace. The bread to be grated very 
fine, and mixed with the eggs, suet, fruit and other ingredients, tied up 
in towel and steamed for five hours. Half the almonds and half 
the citron stuck over it when cooked, and served with a rich wine 
sauce. Maryland, Eastern Shore. 

Mrs. Braxton's Recipe. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 43 



PLUM PUDDING. 
Two and a half pounds of stoned table raisins, chopped fine, one 
pound of butter, one pound of grated stale bread, (or half a pound of 
bread and half a pound of flour), eight eggs, one pound of white 
sugar, one wineglassful of best French brandy, one wineglassful of 
table sherry, two nutmegs, grated, one tablespoonful of mace, one 
tablespoonful of cinnamon, three-quarters of a pound of citron, cut in 
small pieces. This pudding will take six hours to boil. This quantity 
makes two puddings. Pour brandy in the dish, set it on the fire and 
serve while burning. 

]\Irs. Edward Shippen's Recipe. 

PLUM PUDDING. 
One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, six 
eggs, one teacup of milk, wine mace and nutmeg; beat the eggs separ- 
ately; sift one teaspoonful of cream of tartar with the flour. Dissolve 
one-half teaspoonful of cooking soda in the milk, cream half of the 
sugar and butter together, beat the other half of the sugar with the 
yolks of the eggs, stir in the flour last, add one pound of stoned raisins, 
one pound of currants, one pound of citron; boil for five hours in a 
pudding mould; have the water boiling when it is just in and keep the 
kettle closely covered. Eat with wine or rock sauce. 

Mrs. Hugh Lee. 

PLUM PUDDING. 
One quart of raisins, three lemons, one quart of currants, twelve 
eggs, one pint of citron, one loaf of bakers' bread, one pound of suet, 
one tumblerful of brandy, two nutmegs, one tumblerful of sherry, gin- 
ger, cloves, allspice and mace, each two tablespoonfuls, one pound of 
brown sugar, one pint of milk, four tablespoonfuls of flour, one dessert- 
spoonful of soda. Prepare the fruit and suet by flouring it the day be- 
fore. Beat the eggs and sugar very light and then add the other in- 
gredients, the fruit last. Boil in a floured cloth for five hours. 

Mrs. Winn. 

LEMON PUDDING. 
Eight eggs, beaten separately, two and a half cups of sugar, beaten 
with the yolks, butter the size of an egg, creamed with two light table- 
spoonfuls of cornstarch, one teacup of milk, rind (grated) and juice of 
three lemons; bake in paste. Mrs. Hugh Lee. 



44 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 

LEMON PUDDING. 
Boil one pint of milk, thicken it with one tablespoonful of farina; 
while hot add one-quarter of a pound of butter, eight eggs, one pound 
of white sugar; beat them well together; when nearly cold add the 
juice and grated rinds of three lemons. Bake without pastry. 

Mrs. H. C. Dallam. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Slice up a quart loaf of stale bread, put it in a deep dish and cover it 
with sweet milk, six eggs beaten light, one large spoonful of butter. 
Mash the bread and milk together. Boiled in towel. Serve with wine 
sauce. Mrs. H. C. Dallam. 

MANIOCA PUDDING. 
Three tablespoonfuls of Manioca put on to boil with one quart of 
cold milk. Stir constantly till it conies to a boil; pour out in a dish 
to cool, stirring in a tablespoonful of butter and a pinch of salt. While 
cooling a little, beat up four eggs, whites and yolks together; one cup 
of sugar and one teaspoonful of vanilla flavoring. Bake in a greased 
baking pan. Serve cold. 

Mrs. John B. Young, Westbrook. Va. 

WHITE POTATO PUDDING. 
Nine eggs, beaten light, leaving out the whites, half a pound of sugar, 
one pound of mashed potatoes, half a pound of butter, cinnamon to 
your taste, one glass of French brandy. Bake in moderate oven. 

Maryland, Eastern Shore. 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

One and a half pounds of mashed sweet potato, threc-qaurters of a 
pound of sugar (down weight), piece of butter, size of turkey egg, six 
eggs, juice and rind of three lemons, two tablespoonfuls of whiskey. 

Virginia. 

POTATO PUDDING. 

One sweet potato, mashed very smooth; as soon as boiled add 
a tablespoonful of butter while hot; five eggs beaten separately, 
six cups of sugar, one and a half cups of milk, rind and juice of two 
lemons; season with rum, wine and nutmeg. Mrs. Hugh Lee. 



RECIPES — OLD AXD NEW. 45 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

Stew two pounds of prunes, adding a cup and a half of sugar. Set 
them aside until cold, then take out the stones and chop them up fine. 
Whip the whites of six eggs and mix with the prunes. Put into a 
mould and boil twenty minutes, and when thoroughly cold serve with 
whipped cream flavored with vanilla. Miss McCandlish. 

CREAM PUDDING. 

7"ake five tablespoonfuls of flour, five eggs well beaten up with sugar 
and half a pint of cream, a little mace and nutmeg and a few raisins and 
currants; put them in cups and bake them. 

Miss Clemm. 

ALMOND PUDDING OR HEDGE HOG. 

Take one pound of blanched almonds, (keep some to stick over the 
pudding), beat those intended for the pudding very fine in a mortar, 
twelve yolks and four whites of eggs, half a pound of white sugar, four 
tablespoonfuls of peach water; put it in the skillet; keep stirring it until 
it is quite thick; when done put in the dish a piece of stale sponge cake 
or bread; pat the pudding on the cake, patting it in an oval form, and 
stick it full of one-quarter almonds, with two whole almonds for the 
ears; make a rich boiled custard and cover the bottom of the dish. The 
peach water is to be put in now and then while beating the almonds to 
prevent them from oiling. 

Mrs. Campbell's Recipe. 

BANANA FRITTERS. 

One quart of flour, one quart of milk, five eggs, one dozen bananas 
cut in bits, made with yeast powder, fried in boiling lard. 

Mrs. Hugh Lee. 

CONFEDERATE PUDDING. 

Two cups of suet, two cups of currants, two cups of flour, one cup of 
molasses, three eggs, one teaspoonful of soda. Boil four hours- 

BIRD NEST PUDDING. 

Four eggs, one pint of sweet milk, one tablespoonful of flour, one 
pint of sliced apples. Turn custard over the apples and bake slowly. 



46 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 

SECESH PUDDING. 
Three cups of flour, one cup of suet, one cup of molasses, one cup of 
milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two cups of dried apples. Boil three 
hours. 

Mrs. Green. 

GATEAU DE RIZ. 
(jMadame Chatin.) 
Mash and cook in milk six tablespoonfuls of rice. It must be very 
thick. Add butter about the size of an English walnut. After the rice 
has become almost cold add two whole eggs unbeaten, also two more 
eggs, the white and yolks of which have been beaten separately. 
Flavor with lemon, (grated rind), or vanilla. Put five or six lumps of 
sugar in a mould with just enough water to moisten them. Place over 
the fire until it takes a fine caramel color, and then turn the mould in all 
directions until it is entirely covered with the caramels. Pour in the 
mixture and allow it to boil in a double boiler for two hours. Turn it 
out and pour preserved cherries, raspberries or strawberries around it. 

Miss E. Holt. 

A souffle' 
Take six eggs, beat the yolks in a dish with a quarter of a pound of 
sugar, in which the yellow rind of a lemon has first been grated. Stir 
the mixture a good quarter of an hour until it becomes thick. Squeeze 
in the juice of a lemon and add the whites of the five eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth. Rub the dish in which it is to be baked thoroughly with but- 
ter. Let the souffle bake in a hot oven not more than fifteen minutes, 
the dish standing on a tripod or rack of any kind to prevent it touching 
the bottom of the oven. 

B.\roness Von Seckendorff, Dresden. 

MINCEMEAT. 
One quart of fresh beef, chopped fine; it must be lean and boiled 
well; one quart of beef suet, chopped fine, two quarts of Pippin apples, 
chopped fine, two quarts of raisins stoned, two quarts of currants, half 
a pound of citron, sliced very thin, two grated nutmegs, one ounce of 
powdered cinnamon, half an ounce each cloves and mace powdered, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one quart of cider, one quart of sugar, one 
quart of brandy. Put in hot- 

Miss Fairfax. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 47 



MINCE PIE. 

Two pounds of boiled beef, chopped fine, two pounds of fresh butter, 
four pounds of chopped apples, live pounds of stoned table raisins, 
chopped fine, two pounds of brown sugar, one quart of table sherry 
wine, one quart of best French brandy, two grated nutmegs, one ounce 
of cinnamon, half an ounce of cloves, half an ounce of mace, three- 
quarters of a pound of citron cut in small pieces, one teaspoonful of 
table salt; (five pounds of beef when boiled and pared will chop two 
pounds for mincemeat). Mix the meat and apples after they are 
chopped together; put in the raisins little by little, then the sugar and 
spices. Drop the butter into a kettle of boiling water and skim it oft 
in tablespoonfuls and pour into the meat, &c., stirring it in well. Con- 
tinue to do this until all the butter is mixed in, then add the brandy and 
wine, stirring all together thoroughly with a wooden spoon. 

Pastry for Mince Pie. 

Make a nice pastry and fill the pan with the mincemeat and cover it 
with a thin layer of pastry. You can make several pies at a time and 
heat them by setting in an oven a few minutes. 

Mrs. James M. Nicholson's Recipe. 

VICTORIA PUDDING. 

CHEF AT HAMMAM R'IRHA, ALGERIA. 

One quart and two gills (scant) of milk, butter size of an English 
walnut, pinch of salt, a vanilla bean, three teaspoonfuls of cornstarch, 
three teaspoonfuls of flour, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, quarter 
of a pound of seedless raisins, currants, candied fruit, etc. Put the 
cornstarch, flour, sugar, salt and vanilla bean in a saucepan, stir in 
while cold and very gradually, milk until a smooth paste, then add the 
remainder of the milk at once and stir over the fire, taking care that it 
does not scorch. Add fruit, etc. When it comes to a boil withdraw 
and let it simmer over a slow fire, stirring constantly. Add one whole 
egg and the yolks of eight more, (unbeaten), and the whites of same 
whipped to a stifif froth. Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, not al- 
lowing it to be more than three quarters full. Put the mould in a 
double boiler with very little water, and when the mixture has filled the 
mould put it in the oven to finish cooking. As soon as done remove 



48 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 



from the mould and pour over it the following sauce: Boil half a pint 
of milk, half a pound of sugar and vanilla bean in a double boiler; when 
cool or cold add four whole eggs, unbeaten, and stir constantly to pre- 
vent curdling, until the consistency of cream; serve immediately. Use 
brandy or wine instead of vanilla bean if preferred. 

Miss E. Holt. 



CAKE RECIPES. 

BLACK OR FRUIT CAKE. 

One and one-quarter pounds of sifted flour, one pound of fresh but- 
ter, one pound of white sugar, twelve eggs, half pound of citron, five 
pounds of stoned raisins, one tablespoonful of mace, one tablespoonful 
of cinnamon, two nutmegs, one large tumbler, or half pint of best 
brandy, one large tumbler, or half pint of table sherry. Beat the eggs 
very light, and beat the sugar with the eggs, cream the flour with the 
butter, leaving out two or three tablespoonfuls. Then after the eggs 
are very light, mix in the flour and butter, then the brandy and wine 
and citron and spices, and the raisins. These must be chopped fine, 
and rolled in as much sifted flour as will stick to them. Mix all to- 
gether and stir well with a wooden spoon. Put into pans and bake for 
five hours over a slow fire. 

Mrs. James Nicholson. 

PLAIN BLACK CAKE. 

One and a half pounds of sifted flour, one pound of butter, one pound 
of brown sugar, six eggs, a small tumbler of Porto Rico molasses, a 
wineglassful of table sherry, a teaspoonful of mace. Beat the sugar 
and eggs together, cream the flour with the butter, pour the eggs and 
sugar into the flour and butter, then the molasses and the wine and 
spices. Bake at once in shallow tins. 

Mrs. Harriet B. Parker. 

JUMBLES. 

One pound of flour, one pound of white sugar, one pound of butter, 
a teaspoonful of mace, one nutmeg. After these are all mixed you 
have to flour your hands. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 49 

MOTHER'S JUMBLES. 

One pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, (powdered), 
half pound of butter, whites of two eggs and j^olk of one. Beat up 
with a spoonful of rose water, which will wet the whole sufificiently. It 
must be worked up in a paste. Cut them in shape preferred, and bake 
in a moderatel}' hot oven. They must be loosened from the tin Avhile 
hot. Mrs. H. C. Dallam. 

JACKSON JUMBLES. 

Ten dips of sifted flour, six of sugar, two of butter, one teaspoonful 
of pearl ash in a cup of cream, four eggs, cinnamon or any spice you 
may fancy. Rub the flour and butter well together, then work in the 
other ingredients. From Avondale. 

"SALLY WHITE" CAKE. 
(A favorite cake in North Carolina.) 
Three pounds of citron, one pound of blanched almonds, two cocoa- 
nuts, one and a quarter pounds of sugar, one pound of flour, one pound 
of butter, one dozen eggs, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one cup of 
wine or brandy. Chop almonds fine. A little less cinnamon is better. 

Mrs. Green. 
CUP FRUIT CAKE. 
Four cups of flour, one and a half cups of sugar, one-half cup of mo- 
lasses, four eggs, one large cup of butter, one pound of currants, one 
pound of raisins, one-half pound of citron, one-half teaspoonful of 
soda, one-half teaspoonful of cloves, one-half teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
one-half teaspoonful of spices, and one-half teacup of wine or water. 

ICING FOR CAKE. 
Two cups of granulated sugar and sufficient water to dissolve it, 
about three even tablespoonfuls. Boil until it drops hard in water, 
then add this to two well-beaten eggs, (the whites), and continue to 
beat well until it becomes sufficiently stift' to spread between cakes. 

Mrs. E. a. Jenkins. 

MARGUERITES. 
Rub together a pound and six ounces of sugar and a pound and 
six ounces of butter till perfectly light; beat the yolks of eight eggs till 
very thick; sift two pounds of flour into the eggs, butter and sugar; a 



50 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 



teaspoonful of mixed spices, cinnamon, nutmeg and mace, half a glass 
of rose water. Stir the mixture well, and roll it on your pasteboard 
a quarter of an inch thick. Cut 3'our cakes and bake them in a few 
minutes. When cold spread the surface of each cake with jam or 
marmalade. Beat the whites of the eggs with sugar flavored with 
lemon. Cover the cakes, and then put them in the oven until a light 
brown. Miss McCandlisii. 

NUT SPONGE CAKE. 

Six eggs, their weight in sugar and one-half the weight in flour. The 
rind of two lemons and juice of one. Beat the yolks with sugar putting 
in a little at a time, then add the whites thoroughly beaten, then the 
lemon a little at a time. Bake in layers. Icing: One-half pound 
granulated sugar, one-half cup of water, boil till it falls like jelly from 
the spoon. Beat the whites of two eggs and pour sugar over till 
smooth. Then flavor with lemon juice adding one-fourth pound of 
pecan nuts, chopped not too fine, and one-fourth pound of seeded raisins 
also chopped. Stir well and spread over layers. Miss Smith. 

GINGER POUND CAKE. 

Four cups of flour, four eggs, half cup of ginger, one cup of milk, one 
pint of molasses, one and a half tablespoonfuls of cloves, one cup but- 
ter, one cup sugar, two teaspoonfuls of soda, dissolved in one-quarter 
of a glass of hot water. Cream, butter and sugar together, then add 
the molasses. Beat whites and yolks separately, and add a cup of flour 
to each, then add the sugar and butter, beating tlioroughly; then the 
milk, and lastly the soda. A few raisins improve it. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Whites of five eggs, one scant cup of butter, two cups of pulverized 
sugar, two and a half cups of flour, one cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. Bake in jelly cake tins. This quantity will make 
three. 

FRUIT FILLING FOR LAYER CAKE. 

Prepare one cup of currants, one cup of chopped raisins, one cup ol 
chopped citron, one cup of almonds, broken in small pieces, one cup of 
chopped figs, one cup of English walnuts, three cups of sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, three-fourths of a cup of fresh milk. Mix the 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 51 

sugar, milk and butter well, and put on stove in stew pan. Let this 
cook till it begins to rope; remove from fire and beat till it looks light 
and creamy. Pour it over the fruit, and mix well. Spread between 
the layers of cake when it has become nearly cold. This is enough for 
six or seven layers- Flavor filling with vanilla. 

Mrs. Sims. 
MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, half pound of butter, six 
eggs, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar sifted in flour, half teaspoon- 
ful of soda in half cup of milk; cream, butter and flour together. Beat 
sugar and yolks together, then add the beaten whites. Mix all with 
the butter and flour, and beat thoroughly. Last add the soda, and 
bake in mufifin pans. 

GENERAL LEE'S JELLY CAKE. 

Ten eggs, one pound of sugar, half a pound of flour, rind of one 
lemon and juice of half of one. Make a sponge cake and bake in jelly 
cake tins. Then take the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
add to them one pound of sugar, the grated rind and juice of one 
orange and the juice of half a lemon. Spread this mixture on the 
cakes before they are perfectly cold, and place one layer on another. 

SPONGE CAKE. (Old Style.) 

Take the weight of fifteen eggs in sugar, and the weight of eight 
eggs in flour. Beat the whites and the yolks separately and very 
light; then beat in the sugar and flour alternately, leaving some flour 
for the last. When all is beaten quite light, season with mace, lemon 
peel, and juice and wine. 

VlRGINI.\. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Ten eggs, the weight of the eggs in sugar, one-half the weight of the 
eggs in flour. Season to taste. Grease the tins well. It bakes di- 
rectly. M.\RYLAND, Eastern Shore. 

POUND CAKE. 

Ten eggs, one pound of sugar, one pound of butter. Cream sugar 
and butter together until smooth. Beat the eggs separately. Flavor 
to taste. 



52 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 



SHREWSBURY CAKE. 

Two quarts of flour, twelve ounces of lard, one and a half pounds of 
sugar, five eggs, seasoned with mace or nutmeg and lemon, and wine 
or brandy, teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in milk or acid, lard and flour 
mixed together and made up with the eggs and sugar after they are 
beaten light. To be made up as soft as possible to roll. Cut out with 
cake cutter. Quick oven. Pan greased. (This recipe nearly one hun- 
dred years old.) Mrs. H. C. Dallam. 

MY GRANDMOTHER'S GINGER CAKES. 

Three quarts of flour, a pound and a quarter of brown sugar, a little 
more than a pint of molasses, one pound of butter, and the grated rind 
of a fr»::'^.h orange. Melt the butter in the molasses and let it get a little 
cooked; roll the dough as thin as possible, and cook them in not 
too hot an oven. Miss McCandlish. 

WAFERS. 

Twelve ounces of sugar, twelve ounces of flour, one ounce of butter, 
and two eggs, and mace to your taste. 

Mrs. Carroll. 
WEE WEES. 

Quarter of a pound of butter, quarter of a pound of sugar, quarter 
of a pound of flour, two eggs. Beat butter to a cream, and gradually 
beat in the sugar; then the eggs well beaten, (separately). Bake in 
Laplander pans twenty minutes. Eat hot. 



BREAD, CAKES, ETC. 

RECIPE FOR HOME-MADE YEAST. 

A handful of hops drawn to a strong tea. Four good sized Irish 
potatoes boiled soft ; three peeled and mashed and run through a hair 
sieve. Stir the hop tea into the potatoes ; then add a dessertspoonful 
of brown sugar and a teacup of old yeast, or an yeast cake you can buy ; 
put this into a strong stone jug, and cork tightly ; set it near the fire 
to weaken and afterwards set it in a cool place or it will sour. 

All good bread depends on good yeast. 

Mrs. James Nicholson. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NE\V. 53 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Three eggs, three ounces of butter, one quart of flour, one pint of 
fresh milk, a teacup of yeast, a little salt. Beat the eggs very light ; melt 
the butter in the milk ; add a little flour and a little milk until all is 
mixed; then put in the yeast just before all the flour and milk are added, 
(never put the yeast on the eggs). Make out into rolls, and bake in a 
tin pan. This should be made up at night and set to rise, and baked the 
next morning. jNIrs. Harriet B. Parker. 

PLAIN ROLLS. 

A quart of flour, a teacup of yeast, a little salt ; made up with eithei 
milk or vi^ater ; set away to rise at night, and bake in the morning. 

MUFFINS. 

Three eggs, one quart of milk, one ounce of butter, a teacup of yeast. 
Beat the eggs light; melt the butter in the milk; add a little flour and a 
little milk until all is well mixed together ; add the yeast just before you 
put in all the flour and milk. Set away to rise, and bake in muffin rings 
in the morning. Mrs. Harriet B. Parker. 

QUICK WAFFLES (THE BEST KIND). 

Two eggs, one quart of milk, one quart of flour, a little salt. 
Beat the eggs very light ; then gradually mix in the milk and flour 
and salt ; then pour into the waffle irons and make at once. 

VIRGINIA AND MARYLAND BISCUITS. 

One quart of flour, a tablespoonful of lard, a little salt; make up with 
either milk or water, but the dough must be kneaded well with a strong 
arm. Make out into biscuits, printing each with a fork, and bake at 
once. 

COOKIES. 

Two eggs, one quart of milk, a pint of white cornmeal, a little salt. 
Make into a thin batter and bake at once on the griddle. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

Warm a teaspoonful of butter in a quart of milk, put in a little salt, 
and stir in two tablespoonfuls of yeast, and flour enough to make a thin 
batter; then add two well-beaten eggs. Set this away to rise, and after 
five hours' standing bake in cakes on a griddle. 



54 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 



BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Three teacups of black buckwheat, (Pennsylvania buckwheat), one 
teacup of flour, one teacup of j'east. one pint of milk, a little salt. Make 
this into a thick batter at night and set in a warm place to lighten. In 
the morning just before baking, dissolve in a tablespoonful of milk as 
much salaratus as you can hold on the point of a breakfast knife, and stir 
into the batter, and bake at once in cakes on the griddle. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Three eggs, (beaten light), one pint of milk, (warmed), half a teacup 
of yeast, half a teacup of melted butter, (drop a quarter of a pound of 
butter in boiling water and skim it into a cup), two pints of flour, a tea- 
spoonful and a half of salt. Beat the whole very light and pour into a 
buttered pan and bake at once. 

BATTER BREAD. 

One quart of cornmeal, one quart of fresh milk ; take one pint of the 
meal and pour over it one pint of the milk, which has come to a boil, 
having first put with the meal a small piece of lard ; add two eggs, 
beaten well into a meal, (not separately) ; then pour in the other pint 
of milk, cold, and make it of right consistency by adding of the other 
pint of meal a sufficient quantity. The batter must be very thin. Bake 
in earthen pans, and set in oven half an hour before the light bread 
goes in. This is excellent when properly made. 

VIRGINLA. HOE Cx\KES. 

Take of¥ a portion of the dough from your loaf bread, roll very thin, 
cut in small pieces, (do this in the morning, when you make out your 
bread), set to rise, and do not let the bread catch cold ; cover up well. 
Bake on a soapstone griddle, with a lid. The griddle should be well 
heated before beginning to bake, and the dough as thin as it can be 
rolled. Bake quickly and serve hot. Mr.s. H. C. Dallam. 

SCOTCH CAKES. 

Beat one egg well, and into it sift a good quart of flour, one table- 
spoonful of lard, half a teacupful of liquid yeast, salt and sweet milk 
enough to make a stif? dough. Work it well and set it to rise, just as 
light bread. About an hour before tea time take it out of the vessel, not 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 55 

working it at all, but handling as lightly as possible. Make it into very 
small biscuit, and roll with rolling pin to about half an inch thick. Let 
them rise on a board till your supper is ready to send in ; then put in 
biscuit pans, not touching each other, and bake as quickly as possible. 
Serve red hot. 

ZEPHYR CAKES (BREAKFAST). 

Two cups of sifted meal, three cups of sifted flour, salt to taste, half a 
cupful of yeast. Mix flour and meal well, pour in yeast and enough 
warm water to make quite a stiff batter. Make this up after tea for 
breakfast next morning and set to rise, just as buckwheat. When 
breakfast is ready beat well and stir in a third of a teaspoonful of soda, 
and bake. 

COTTAGE LOAF. 

To one quart of flour add two eggs, one tablespoonful of sugar, 
one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of yeast. Make up the 
night before, if for breakfast. Make up with water; baked in cake 
mould. 

MADISON CAKE. 

Two eggs to one quart of flour, a teaspoonful of sugar, a tablespoonful 
of butter. Make up the night before, (for breakfast,) with tablespoonful 
of yeast, and use milk instead of water, (consistency of bread). 
Roll out in the morning, cut in rortold shapes and bake as you do bis- 
cuits. This recipe was given by "' Dolly ^Madison " to Mrs. Walker 
Tomlin, mother of Mrs. Corbin Braxton of "Chericoke." 

DROP MUFFINS. 

Three eggs, one quart of milk, one tablespoonful of butter, flour 
stirred in until sufficiently stiff for the spoon to stand upright. Made up 
with yeast the night before for breakfast. Taken up in a spoon and 
dropped into the pan. Bake in a quick oven. 

THIN BISCUIT. 

One quart of flour to a tablespoonful of lard, and a teaspoonful of 
salt. Roll very thin and bake quickly. 

Miss McCandlish. 



56 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 

COLONIAL WAFFLES. 

Three pints of flour, three half pints of cream, four eggs and two 
ounces of butter. Beat them until they leave the spoon. 

Miss McCandlish. 

BEACON BISCUIT. 

One pint of flour, one teacupful of yeast, one good teaspoonful of 
lard. Rub the lard into the flour, add yeast and salt ; beat well and set 
to rise. When well risen work in a pint of flour. The dough must be as 
soft as you can well handle. Roll out about half an inch thick, brush 
over with melted butter and put one piece in the other and put in pan. 
When well risen, bake like any other roll. 

VIRGINIA WONDERS. 

One quart of milk, four eggs beaten light, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
cup of medium meal, one tablespoonful of melted butter, one teaspoon- 
ful of yeast powder. Bake in shallow pans in a quick oven. 

Mrs. Saunders. 

BEATEN BISCUIT. 

One quart of flour, lard the size of a hen's egg, two eggs. Make into 
moderately stifif dough with sweet milk. Beat thirty minutes. Make 
dough out with hands, stick with fork and bake in a quick oven. Some 
prefer the beaten biscuit without the egg. 

HEALING SPRINGS SALLY LUNN. 

To three well-beaten eggs add one tablespoonful of butter, one of 
sugar, one pint of sweet milk, a half a teacupful of yeast ; mix in a 
pound and a half of flour. Let it rise, then beat it again, and if too soft 
beat in a little more flour. It should be the consistency of muffin batter. 
Make it up at night for morning. 

RYE BREAD. 

One pint of rye flour, one of corn meal, one tablespoonful of lard, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one teacup of good yeast. Mix with water 
enough to make a stiff dough ; knead well ; set to rise. When well 
risen, knead again and form into loaves. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 



LAPLANDERS. 
One pint milk, one pint flour, two eggs. Beat the whites and yolks 
separately, and when just ready to bake, stir in the well-beaten eggs, 
(whites). Heat the pans before putting in the dough. 

Mrs. E. a. Jenkins. 

CORN BUNS. 
Two moderate-sized teacupfuls of meal, one egg, butter the size of an 
egg, mixed up with a little new milk and dropped from a spoon on the 
griddle. Mrs. von Kapff. 

MARYLAND BISCUITS. 
A quart of flour, heaping tablespoonful of lard ; both mi.xed well 
together with the hands ; thirteen tablespoonfuls of skimmed milk and 
water mixed, as stiff as it can be worked. Work ten or fifteen minutes 
until the dough cracks. Work with the hands only. 

Mrs. Robert Smith. 

BOILED BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 
Two small cups of unbolted flour, three-fourths of a cup of yellow 
cornmeal, three-fourths of a cup of wheat flour, three-fourths of a cup 
of molasses, one egg, one teaspoonful of soda, a small piece of lard, a 
little salt. Sufficient water to make it the consistency of muftin dough. 
Boil six or seven hours. Mrs. Tompkins. 



EGGS, CHEESE, ETC. 

BEAUREGARD EGGS. 

Five eggs, one tablespoonful of cornstarch, five squares of toast, half 
a pint of milk, a lump of butter the size of a walnut, salt and pepper to 
taste. Cover the eggs with boiling water and boil for twenty minutes. 
Take off their shells, chop the whites fine and rub the yolks through a 
sieve. Do not mix them. Now put the milk on to boil, rub the butter 
and cornstarch together and add to the boiling milk. Now add the 
whites, salt and pepper. Put the toast on a hot dish, cover it with a 
layer of this white sauce, then the layer of the yolks, then the remain- 
der of the whites. Sprinkle the top with a little salt and pepper. Stand 
in the oven for a moment or two and serve. 



68 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 

BENGAL OMELET. 

Six eggs, one tablespoonful of Spanish onion, chopped fine, one 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Beat the eggs until thoroughly 
mixed, add the onion and parsley and make the same as plain omelet, 
dust with salt and pepper, then serve. 

EGGS AU BEURRE NOIR. 

Fry eight eggs, then put two ounces of butter, a pinch of salt and 
pepper in a frying pan; heat on the fire until it turns black; then add 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar; let it boil up again and pour it over the 
eggs. 

OMELETTE SOUFFLE. 

The whites of six eggs and the yolks of three eggs, three tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla, a little lemon juice. 
Beat whites to a stiff froth, beat yolks, vanilla, sugar and lemon to- 
gether and add to the whites of eggs. Put on a greased dish, bake in a 
moderate oven and eat immediately. 

Miss Carson. 

OYSTER OMELET. 

Stewr six oysters in their own liquor for a few minutes, then take 
out the oysters and thicken the liquid with an ounce or two of butter 
rolled in lour; season with salt and cayenne and whisk to a cream; 
chop the oysters and add to the sauce and let it simmer until the sauce 
thickens. Beat up four eggs and add a tablespoonful of cream; turn 
out into a hot pan and fry of a light gold color. Before folding the 
omelet place the oysters and part of the sauce within and turn it out on 
a hot dish, pouring the rest of the sauce around it. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

Boil the eggs hard and cut them in two; take out the yolks and chop 
them well, adding any good force meat or chopped chicken, ham or 
tongue; season the mixture, adding a little stock or raw egg to bind 
them; fill the eggs, pressing down the stuffing, smooth them, put the 
two halves together, roll twice in beaten egg and bread crumbs, dip 
them in a wire basket into boiling lard, and when they are a delicate 
brown drain and serve, garnished with parsley or water cress. 



RECIPES — OLD AXD NEW. 59 

EGGS EN TIMBALE. 

Break twelve eggs into a bowl, add salt, pepper and a wineglassful of 
cream, beat them well, strain them and pour them into buttered moulds. 
Place the moulds in a pan with a little water in it; place it in the oven, 
and when the eggs are of a consistency to turn out of the moulds serve 
them at once on a hot dish. Bechamel sauce can be served with this 
dish, but is not indispensable. 

BAKED EGGS. 

Mince half a pound of lean boiled ham and add half a pound of 
cracker crumbs; moisten and spread the mixture on a dish; scoop out 
four round holes and drop an egg from the shell into each hole. Sea- 
son with salt, cayenne and butter; put the dish in the oven and serve 
when the eggs are cooked. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

Beat up the eggs and add to them a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan 
cheese. Before folding the omelet add a little more cheese and turn 
out on a hot dish. Grate a little cheese over the top. 

SCALLOPED EGGS. 

Make a force-meat of chopped ham, ground is better; fine bread 
crumbs, pepper, salt, a little minced parsley and some melted butter. 
Moisten with milk to a soft paste, and half fill some patty-pans or scal- 
lop shells with the mixture. Break an egg carefully upon the top of 
each, dust with pepper and salt and sift some very finely powdered 
cracker over all. Set in the oven and bake until the eggs are well set: 
about eight minutes. Eat hot. 

EGGS UPON TOAST. 

Put a good lump of butter into the frying pan. When it is hot stir 
in four or five well-beaten eggs, with pepper, salt and parsley. Stir and 
toss for three minutes. Have ready to your hand some slices of but- 
tered toast, (cut round with a tin cake-cutter before they are toasted); 
spread thickly with ground or minced tongue, chicken or ham. Heap 
the stirred egg upon these in mounds and set in a hot dish garnished 
with parsley and pickled beets. 



60 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 

CREAMED EGGS. 

CHEF AT HAMMAM R'IRHA, ALGERIA. 

Twelve hard-boiled eggs, a scant pint of milk, one medium-sized 
onion, salt, pepper and chopped parsley. Chop the onion very fine and 
put in a saucepan with a little butter over a slow fire, taking care that 
it does not become dark. Whisk three teaspoonfuls of flour and butter 
the size of two eggs in another saucepan for ten minutes, taking care 
that it does not scorch. Stir in the milk, letting it come to a boil, then 
put it over an exceedingly slow fire and let cook from fifteen to twenty 
minutes; add the onion, which must be thoroughly cooked, but white. 
Allow it to cook a little longer that the onion may be thoroughly 
blended with the sauce. Take the eggs, which must have been boiled 
twelve minutes; slice them lengthwise and add them to the sauce. 
Season the whole with salt, pepper and a little finely chopped parsley, 
adding a piece of fresh butter about the size of a walnut. Serve very 
hot. 

CROQUETTES OF MACCARONI AND CHEESE. 

Take one quarter of a pound of maccaroni, boil in salted water for 
half an hour, take it out and after carefully draining it put it in a sauce- 
pan with an ounce of butter, half an ounce of Parmesan cheese and a 
quarter of a pound of cooked, smoked tongue chopped fine. Cook all 
together, then pour into a sautoire that has been well buttered, spread- 
ing the mixture until it covers the bottom. Then cover with buttered 
paper and set it away to cool. When cool divide into six parts; roll 
each in grated Parmesan cheese and dip in beaten eggs and grated 
bread crumbs. Fry in hot lard and serve on a hot dish. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

Mix with four ounces of sifted flour, two of any dry, rich cheese, 
grated, an even teaspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, 
and a liberal dust of cayenne; add the juice of a lemon, the yolks of two 
raw eggs, and enough melted butter to form a paste, which can be 
rolled out to the thickness of about an eighth of an inch; cut the pastry 
in strips like straws, lay them upon a floured bakingpan, and place them 
in a moderate oven until they become crisp; without breaking them 
transfer them to oval dishes, covered with napkins, and they will be 
ready for service. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 61 



CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

One cup of milk, quarter of pound of cheese crumbled into it; set it 
on the fire until the cheese dissolves and stir until it thickens; add a 
little salt. Beat two eggs separately, add a little cold milk to the yolk 
to keep it from curdling; pour over this the hot milk and cheese and 
keep it warm. When ready to serve, stir in the well-beaten whites of 
the eggs. 

WELSH RAREBIT (FOR FIVE). 

Chafing-dish with bath, — pour boiling water into the water pan and 
proceed by putting a piece of butter into the dish, — a sufficient quantity 
to grease it well; — then put in two and a half pounds of American dairy 
cheese, cut into blocks; add a small quantity of salt and a dessertspoon- 
ful of dry English mustard. When the whole is melted together and 
stirred to a uniform consistency put in the yolk of an egg. Stir in then 
a quarter of a teaspoonful of Paprica, one dessertspoonful of Worces- 
tershire sauce; stir enough to keep from curdling, but not too much, 
testing it to see that it does not become stringy. Last — add a wine- 
glassful of good sherry and serve on toast or toasted soda crackers. If 
cooked on a blazer the cheese should be stirred all the time so as not to 
burn. George Snowden Andrews. 



PICKLES, SWEETMEATS, ETC. 

THE CELEBRATED " CHERICOKE " PICKLE LIQUOR 

RECIPE. 

To two gallons of good cider vinegar add one pint of mustard 
seed, eight ounces of scraped horseradish, a few cloves of garlic, four 
ounces of powdered ginger, four ounces of powdered black pepper, 
three ounces of powdered allspice, one ounce of powdered cloves, one 
ounce of powdered mace, one ounce of celery seed, one ounce of pow- 
dered turmeric, four sliced lemons, one teacup of sweet oil mixed in 
two pounds of brown sugar. When intended for yellow pickle, leave 
out the oil. New liquor should be made in May or June and stirred 
frequently, so as to mellow, for the pickles to be made later in the 
season. This liquor is generally used for making mango or cucumber 
pickle. 



62 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 

STUFFING FOR FORTY MANGOES. 

One soup plate of scraped horseradish, one pint of celery seed, one 
pint of black mustard seed, half a pint of white mustard seed, eight 
ounces ground black pepper, two tablespoonfuls of turmeric, two table- 
spoonfuls of mustard, one pound of brown sugar, one bottle of salad 
oil. All of the spices must be powdered. Mix all and stuff the 
mangoes, putting into each one a small clove of garlic, or a small piece 
of sliced onion. Should all the stuffing not be used, put the rest in 
the pickle liquor (already described). In selecting the fruit get young 
and tender cucum>bers ; one or two pecks, if you require that amount ; 
make a brine of cold water, sufficiently strong to bear an egg, and pour 
over the cucumbers, cover them with grape or cabbage leaves, with a 
weight to press the fruit down, so as to keep it well covered. Let it 
stand ten days ; then pour off the brine and scald it, pouring it back 
over the cucumbers for nine days. Then lay them in cold, fresh water 
for the night; put them in vinegar and water, not too weak for 
several days, to extract the salt, and then put them in the liquor, 
already prepared. Be sure they have lost all brackishness before put- 
ting them in the good pickle liquor. To green them, grape leaves must 
be used in boiling the brine, putting some in the brine, and laying them 
over the cucumbers before pouring the hot brine over them. Have the 
leaves fresh every day. (These recipes for pickle liquors, with the 
stufifed cucumbers or mangoes, are those from which the much re- 
nowned " Virginia pickle " has been made since the beginning of 
the century.) 

Mrs. H. C. Dall.\m. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

One peck of tomatoes, (green), cut in thin slices, a layer of the sliced 
tomatoes, sprinkled with salt. Let them stand twenty-four hours. 
Then mix together six large onions, sliced, quarter of a pound of 
mustard seed, one ounce of cloves, two ounces of ground pepper, one 
ounce of ground ginger, one ounce of allspice. Put sliced tomatoes 
in kettle, a layer of tomatoes and a layer of mixed spices. Cover them 
with good vinegar and let them simmer until they look quite clear. 

PICKLED CUCUMBERS. 

To Green Them. — Drop them into moderately strong brine for three 
days. Let them be well covered with green leaves, (grape or cabbage), 
and keep a weight on them. When they begin to turn yellow, pour 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 63 

off the brine, have it boiled and returned to the fruit boiUng. In order 
to hasten the greening, put layers of grape leaves between layers of 
fruit, sprinkled with a little pulverized alum. Then pour the hot brine 
on and in three days more they will be green enough. Take them out 
and drop them into cold water for a few hours. Then put them in 
cold vinegar for three more days, after which they are ready for the 
vinegar. 

To Make the Vinegar. — To every two gallons of good vinegar : Four 
ounces ground ginger, three ounces ground black pepper, three ounces 
ground allspice, two ounces ground mace, two ounces turmeric, one 
pint white mustard seed, half a pint black mustard seed, half a pint cel- 
ery seed, two handfuls of horseradish, two handfuls of sliced onions; the 
last two to be sprinkled with salt and kept in the sun twenty-four hours 
before dropping in the vinegar. This is to be prepared in the summer, 
sunned well, and stirred up daily. Add cucumbers in the fall, and 
sugar to the taste. 

Mrs. Braxton's Recipe. 

TO PICKLE PEACHES (SWEET). 

Wash the whole peaches in boiling water with some soda to 
take ofif the fur. Seven pounds of fruit to five pounds of sugar, one 
quart of good vinegar, half an ounce of stick cinnamon, half an ounce 
of cloves, (whole), half an ounce of allspice, (whole). Put all in a kettle 
and boil very slowly until fruit is easily pierced by a silver fork. Cling- 
stone peaches are preferred. 

Miss Doughty. 

RECIPE FOR MANGO PICKLES. 

Let them lie in brine for three or four weeks, and then soak them in 
cold water for two days, changing the water frequently. Boil them in 
vinegar for three-quarters of an hour, adding a small lump of alum. 
Let them stand in the same vinegar for a week. Then remove the seed, 
and fill the cavity with the following spices : One pound of ginger, 
soaked in sherry wine for a day or two, or until soft enough to slice ; 
one ounce each of cloves, allspice, celery seed, a quarter of an ounce of 
turmeric, quarter of a pound of garlic, (soaked for two days in brine 
and then dried), one pint of grated horseradish, one pint of black 
mustard seed, one pint of white mustard seed, two pounds of brown 
sugar. Braise all the spices and mix them with a large bottle of olive 
oil, (pure). Chop up four mangoes and a few onions fine, and mix 



64 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 

them with the other spices. Tie them up and pour over them the best 
cider vinegar. Set them in a Hght dry place, avoiding alwaj'^s darkness 
or dampness. After one month add three pounds of brown sugar to 
the vinegar or more, according to your taste. 

Margaret A. Pegram. 

PICKLES. 

GERMAN DAMSONS (TO MAKE TWENTY POUNDS). 

To five quarts of good vinegar add ten pounds of brown sugar, three 
ounces of powdered ginger, two ounces of black pepper, (powdered), 
one ounce of powdered cloves, one blade of mace, one ounce of pow- 
dered allspice, one ounce of celery seed. Tie the spices up loosely all 
together in a muslin. The mace put loose in the vinegar. Boil this 
liquor well. Then put the fruit in a jar and pour the liquor on scalding 
hot. Tie the jar closely and let stand until next day. Then pour off 
the liquor, boil it again and pour over the iruit, boiling hot. Do the 
same next day — three times in all. Then tie up the jar tight and set 
away. This recipe answers also for peaches, with a little scraped horse- 
radish added. 

Mrs. H. C. Dallam. 

TOMATO CATSUP (MADE WITHOUT COOKING). 

One peck of tomatoes, chopped fine, eight chopped onions, four 
green peppers, horse radish, tablespoonful of black pepper, tablespoon- 
ful of cayenne pepper, tablespoonful of celery seed, one cup of white 
mustard seed, one cup of black mustard seed, one cup of salt Scald 
tomatoes to peel them. Let tomatoes and onions stand all night and 
drain. The next morning squeeze well with the hand and mix the solid 
part with the above ingredients. Fill glass jars about three-fourths 
full of this and fill up with good, strong cider vinegar. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Tomatoes, one peck, cjuarter them. Onions, six large ones, sliced. 
Peppers, six green pods and four red pods. Put all of this in a porce- 
lain kettle and boil till perfectly done, then strain through a coarse 
sieve, being careful to mash all the pulp through. To one gallon of 
juice, add one pint of cider vinegar, four tablespoonfuls of salt, four 
tablespoonfuls of mustard, four tablespoonfuls of ground black pepper. 
Sugar to your taste. Boil till quite thick, bottle and seal. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 



65 



SWEET PICKLED PEACHES. 

Peaches, twelve pounds in stone, sugar five pounds, vinegar one 
quart, cider, stick cinnamon one ounce, cloves one tabiespoonful, 
spice one tabiespoonful, celery seed one tabiespoonful. Peel me- 
dium sized peaches and weigh them. Put all in a kettle together and 
cook till the fruit begins to get soft. Tie the celery seed up in muslin 
bag. 

SWEET PICKLE OF GRAPES. 

Squeeze all the pulp out of the skins and keep them separate. 
Measure them. Stew the pulp till it is soft, then pass through a 
potato masher to get out the stones. Add the skins and just cover 
with vinegar. Add as much brown sugar as you had grapes and skins, 
flavor with a teaspoonful of cinnamon, and the same of allspice, and 
half a teaspoonful of cloves. This is enough spice for six baskets of 
grapes. Concord grapes are the best. 

BRANDY PEACHES. 

Scald the peaches in hot water, then in strong hot lye. Rub them 
with a cloth and throw them into cold water. Make a syrup of one 
pound of loaf sugar and one poimd of fruit; boil and when cold add an 
equal quantity of brandy to the syrup. 

JosiAH Lee. 

BRANDY PEACHES. ' 

To ten poimds of peaches put five pounds of sugar. Have ready 
porcelain kettle, with boiling water, into which put potash enough 
to make a strong lye, let this boil a few moments, and then drop in 
six or eight peaches at a time, let them remain only long enough to 
make the skin drop off, then take them out and rub them with a coarse 
towel, and drop them into cold water as you do it. Wipe the peaches 
and weigh them. To five pounds of sugar put five small glasses of 
water and let boil until it thickens into syrup, then drop in the peaches 
and let them boil until you can stick them with a fork to the stone. 
Then take them out and lay them on dishes; pour your syrup 
into a bowl and let it remain until next morning. Put the peaches 
in another bowl and cover them over with brandy, and let them re- 
main until the next day; take the peaches out of the brandy and 
put them into jars; mix equal portions of brandy and syrup, 



66 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 



and pour it in the jars with the peaches until they are covered over. 
The syrup which is left mix with brandy and put away in bottles. It 
makes a nice liqueur for luncheon. 

"Bremo," August 12th, 1859. 



DEWBERRY. OR GRAPE WINE. 

Three gallons of juice, one gallon of water, twelve pounds of sugar, 
well mixed and put in demijohn, leaving space for effervescing, cork 
very lightly for six weeks, then cork firmly and bottle in December. 



; RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Pour on three quarts of fresh raspberries, one pint of vinegar and 
let it stand until next morning, strain off and pour the juice on three 
quarts of berries, and again on the third morning add three quarts of 
berries, then to every pint add one pound of sugar, stir well and bottle, 
cork lightly and boil fifteen minutes. One tablespoon to a glass of 
ice water, delightful beverage. 

Mrs. General Randolph. 



COLOGNE. 



One hundred and twenty drops essence of lavender, one hundred 

and thirty drops of oil of bergamot, one hundred and forty drops 

oil of orange, one hundred and thirty drops oil of lemon, six drops 

oil of neroli, one-half gallon of alcohol. 

Jennie Dulanv. 



RECIPES — OLD AXD NEW. 



CANDY. 

CARAMELS. 
Three pounds of brown sugar, one cake of Baker's chocolate, one 
teacup of cream, one-fourth pound of butter. Season with vanilla, 
two tablespoonfuls. Put the sugar in a kettle with the grated choc- 
olate, the teacup of cream and the one-fourth pound of butter, put this 
on the fire and let it boil just nineteen minutes, stirring it all the time 
to prevent it turning to sugar. Just as you take it ofif the fire, stir in 
two tablespoonfuls of vanilla extract, then pour into dishes well but- 
tered, and when cool cut into small squares. 

Miss Leila P. Nicholson's Recipe. 

SUGAR CANDY. 

Three cups of sugar, half cup of best vinegar, half cup of water, 
tablespoonful of butter put in at the last with one teaspoonful saleratus 
dissolved in hot water. Boil fast without stirring until it crisps in cold 
water. Pull it until it turns white. 

CONSERVE OF ROSES. 

Take red roses, take ofif all the whites at the bottom, take three times 
their weight in sugar, put a pint of water to a pint of roses, skin well, 
shred the roses a little before you put them into the water and cover 
them and when the leaves are tender put in the sugar. Keep stirring 
lest they burn and the syrup be consumed. Put them up and keep 
them for your use. 

Old English Recipes. 

MAPLE SUGAR CARAMELS. 

Two cups of powdered maple sugar, one cup of cream or rich milk. 
Set back of the oven to simmer slowly without stirring. No butter. 

Mrs. von Kapff. 

EVERTON TOFFEE. 

Two cups of granulated sugar, one cup hot water, four tablespoonfuls 
butter, half teaspoonful lemon juice. Put all the ingredients into a 
dish with the exception of the lemon juice, which must be added just 
before taking ofT the fire. Stir constantly until it is brittle when 
dropped into cold water, then pour on buttered dish. 



68 RECIPES — OLD AXD NEW. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

One cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, two tablespoonfuls butter. 
Boil fast. When brittle pour on buttered dish and mark in squares 
with a knife while cooling. 

POP CORN BALLS. 

Boil together two cups molasses, one cup brown sugar, tablespoonful 
of butter^ tablespoonful of vinegar. Pop some corn and when the 
candy is done stir in all that it will take, but do not let any hard 
kernels get in. Pour on a buttered dish and roll into balls. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one cup of butter, one tablespoonful of 
vinegar. Put the ingredients into a tin to melt, mixing and stirring 
with a spoon. When melted, boil without stirring until the syrup 
hardens in water; pour into buttered tins, and mark into squares. 
Lemon or vanilla maj^ be used as flavoring, if desired, just before 
taking up. 

Miss Jones. 
PEANUT CANDY. 

One pint shelled peanuts, one pint granulated sugar. Put the sugar 
into a pan, (without any water), over a moderate fire, where it will 
melt gradually. As soon as melted, turn in the peanuts and mix 
quickly; remove from the fire and spread at once into a shallow pan, 
or drop in spoonfuls on a buttered plate. Miss Jones. 

NOUGAT. 

One pound sweet almonds, three-fourths pound white sugar, one 
tablespoonful rose water. Blanch almonds in boiling water, strip of 
their skins, and put in ice water, then dry, put in oven until slightly 
brown. Melt the sugar without any water, when the syrup is a bright 
yellow, throw in the almonds, then put in a buttered pan and cut 
when warm, not hot. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 69 



BEVERAGES. 

CHERRY BOUNCE. 

Two gallon demijohn filled with Morella cherries, then fill the demi- 
john with New England rum, take one-half pint of the liquid, and put 
into it one-fourth ounce of cloves, or allspice, (whole), boil in it, and 
add three pounds of brown sugar. 

Miss Fairfax, 

ONE GALLON OF APPLE TODDY. 

One pint cognac brandy, one-half pint apple brandy, four table- 
spoonfuls peach brandy, four tablespoonfuls Curaqoa cordial, one and 
one-eighth pound of loaf sugar, one gill of Jamaica spirits, eight apples 
roasted and quartered, one-half gallon of water, one-half lemon sliced 
thin. 

JosiAii Lee. 

MINT CORDIAL OR JULEP. 

In five gallons of brandy put as much spear mint (picked when the 
dew is on it) as can be pressed in without bruising. Let them remain 
together twenty-four hours. Put into a vessel sixteen and one-fourth 
pounds loaf sugar, on which put the bulk of five gallons in good clear 
ice, or three gallons of ice water. Pour the brandy from the mint and 
mix the sugar and water with it. This makes a delicious cordial and 
when mixed with ice will make a julep superior to that made with fresh 
mint. It greatly improves with age. Two-thirds of a gill of new 
milk will clarify that, quantity of cordial. For making whiskey julep: 
two and three-fourth pounds of sugar are required for each gallon of 
whiskey. (P. S. — This is excellent for mal de mer.) 

JosiAH Lee. 

NOYAU CORDIAL. 

Steep a pint of blanched peach kernels ten days in a gallon of old 
apple brandy. Pour the brandy from the kernels, and add four pounds 
pulverized loaf sugar; clarify it by dissolving, (twelve cents worth of 
isinglass) gelatine in a little warm water, and stir it into the cordial. 
Let it stand all night to settle, then steam until perfectly clear and bottle. 
Age improves it greatly. 

JosiAH Lee. 



70 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 

APPLE TODDY. 

Twelve apples, a little tart, red streaks if possible, or wine sap, roasted 
or baked and mashed, to one gallon water; sweetened to the taste, say 
one and one-half pounds sugar, four tumblerfuls of brandy, one of rum, 
one of peach brandy, mix thoroughly and add of above liquids if neces- 
sary. 

Miss Fairfax. 

NEW YORK UNION LEAGUE PUNCH. 
One bottle claret, one bottle club soda, two lemons, a pony of Cur- 
agoa, a pony of Maraschino, and a half pony of brandy, and four table- 
spoonfuls of granulated sugar. 

A GOOD PUNCH. 

One and a half bottles of claret, half a bottle of brandy, six lumps of 
sugar, three poneys of Curaqoa. Let the peel of two oranges and two 
lemons and one blade of mace soak in the brandy all night. Add four 
slices of cucumber, after made, and let them soak only five minutes. 
Then add some mint, if it is fresh and green, for twenty minutes; ready 
for punch bowl. 

Mrs. George Dallas Dixon. 

ROMAN PUNCH. 
One and a half pints lemonade, half pint of champagne, half pint of 
rum, the juice of two oranges, the well beaten whites of two eggs into 
which you have beaten half a pound of powdered sugar. To be served 
with crushed ice or to be frozen. 

ROAIAN PUNCH. 

Purchase some good lemon water-ice. Fill your punch glasses with 
the water-ice and pour into each glass a little Jamacia rum just before 
serving. 

PHILADELPHIA FISH HOUSE PUNCH. 
One pint rum, one pint brandy, one gill peach brandy, one gill green 
tea, strong and cooled, one claret glass red Curagoa, four lemons, (the 
juice only), eight limes, one lump of ice, one quart champagne, (a dry 
wine), put in just before serving. Ornament with fruit; pineapple, 
oranges, strawberries, etc. 

Mrs. George Dallas Dixon. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 71 

PUNCH. 

One gill red Curagoa, one dozen lemons, (juice only), half pound of 
sugar, one and a half bottles of carbonic water, one bottle of brandy, 
six bottles of claret, one pineapple, (peel and sugar and let it stand be- 
fore slicing), four sliced oranges. Soak the peel of two oranges and 
three lemons in the brandy all night; then take it out. 

Mrs. George Dallas Dixon. 

CONFEDERATE PUNCH. 

' Dissolve two pounds of white sugar in one quart of water. Then add 
one quart of Sherry wine, one pint of brandy, one pint of rum, and half 
a pint of lemon juice. Rub the rinds of two fresh lemons on some lumps 
of sugar, being careful to take ofif all the yellow rind, but none of the 
white. Mix thoroughly ; fill pitcher with cracked ice well packed 
down before the punch is poured in, or it will be too strong. 

Mrs. Marshall. 
HOT PUNCH. 

Ingredients. — Half a pint of rum, half a pint of brandy, a quarter oi a 
pound of sugar, one large lemon, half a teaspoonful of nutmeg, one pint 
of boiling water. Rub the sugar over the lemon until it has absorbed 
all the yellow part of the skin ; then put the sugar into a punch bowl ; 
add the lemon juice, free from seed, and mix these two ingredients well 
together ; pour over them the boiling water ; stir well together ; add 
rum brandy and nutmeg and the punch will be ready to serve. To 
insure success the ingredients must be thoroughly mixed. 

Mrs. Beeton's Recipe. 

CLARET CUP. 

Put into a large silver cup or pitcher one bottle of claret, one bottle 
of soda water, four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, a little grated 
nutmeg, one liqueur glass of ^Maraschino and a sprig of mint. Add 
crushed ice and serve. 

CHAMPAGNE CUP. 

One quart bottle of champagne, two bottles of soda water, one liqueur 
glass of brandy or Curagoa, two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Put 
all the ingredients into a large silver or glass pitcher or silver loving- 
cup ; stir well together, adding crushed ice. Some add a few slices of 
cucumber rind or a sprig of green borage. 



72 RECITES — OLD AND NEW. 

TEA PUNCH. 

To one quart of Jamaica rum put one and a half pounds of sugar, six 
lemons and one cup of strong green tea. Peel the lemons, paring the 
rind in very thin slices, and pour tea, boiling hot, upon the peel. Mix 
the lemon juice and sugar, and mix all together, pouring the rum on 
last. When ready to serve, have a pitcher filled with crushed ice, and 
pour in the mixture. 

Mrs. Alexander Gordon. 

EGG NOGG. 

The yolks only of twenty eggs, two quarts of cream, two quarts of rich 
milk, a quart and a half of best French brandy, one pint of best 
Jamaica rum. Sweeten to your taste, (not very sweet). Beat the eggs 
very light. (You can use the whites if you like, but all must be beaten 
together.) Then pour slowly over them the brandy and rum. Dissolve 
the sugar in the cream or milk, and pour both into the liquor and eggs. 
Strain into another bowl, and it is ready for use. All cream makes it too 
rich. The white of the eggs impoverishes it slightly, but if used must 
be beaten together, and never whipped up and put on top. 

Another recipe is : Six eggs to a quart of cream, half a pint of 
brandy, half a pint of rum. Sweeten to your taste. Beat the yolks and 
whites of the eggs together. James M. Nicholson. 

RECIPE FOR EGG NOGG. 

One quart of cream, one cup of sugar, half a tumbler of brandy and 
eight eggs. Beat the yolks light, add the sugar, scald with the brandy, 
leaving a little brandy and sugar to scald the whites. When the whites 
are beaten light, stir in the cream to the well-lightened yolks and then 
mix in the whites. 

Mrs. Alexander Gordon. 

VIRGINIA EGG NOGG. 

Eight eggs, one tablespoonful of pulverized sugar to each egg, one 
wine glass of rum or brandy to each egg, — usually mix rum and 
brandy, — half a pint of milk. Beat eggs separately and very light, keep- 
ing out a portion of the whites to put on top. Sugar and eggs are 
beaten together. Stir this into the milk, next the rum and brandy, and 
beat the white of the eggs. Much depends upon the manner in which 
the ingredients are put together. 



RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 73 

WINE WHEY. 

Half a pint of new milk, half a pint of water boiled, and two wine 
glasses of good wine thrown in while boiling. Strain it, after it curds, 
through a punch strainer. 

Dr. Pue. 
EGG NOGG. 

A dozen and a half of eggs to one gallon of milk ; beat the yolks with 
a quarter of a pound of white sugar; put the yolks and sugar in the cold 
milk; put on the stove and stir till it boils and thickens like a custard. 
Then let it cool and stir in the beaten white of the eggs, (keeping out 
part of the whites). Pour in a quart of brandy and nutmeg, and sugar to 
your taste. 

. Mrs. Winn. 



74 RECIPES — OLD AND NEW. 

CONFEDEE?ATE RECIPES 

BY WAY OF CONTRAST. 



THE CONFEDERATE CANDLE. 

Half a pound of beeswax to one ounce of resin will make twelve 
yards of candle. The wick is made of three threads of number six 
cotton. 

HARD-TACK CAKES. 

Soak in boiling water, then thin with a little milk and bake like flan- 
nel cakes. These were considered a great delicacy during the war. 
The hard tack was picked up on camp grounds after the Yankees 
moved. We have eaten them days at a time, and thought them a 
luxury. 

CONFEDERATE BLACKING. 

Two tablespoonfuls of lamp black, one teaspoonful of brown sugar, 
white of one egg stirred until smooth, mixed with vinegar to proper 
consistency. 

CONFEDERATE INK. 

A strong decoction of the maple or sweet gum. This decoction, 
with copperas, makes a purple dye. 

RASPBERRY LEAF TEA. 
Dry leaves and steep in boiling water, as you would black tea. 

SWEET POTATO COFFEE. 

Wash, peel, slice and dry the potatoes. Roast a very dark brown; 
grind and allow two heaping tablespoonfuls to each cup of water; boil 
ten minutes. Sweeten with brown sugar. 

RYE COFFEE. 

Wash and dry one quart of rye and one quart of wheat; roast a nice 
brown; grind; allow two tablespoonfuls to each cup of water; boil five 
minutes. Sweeten with molasses. 



Our Receipt for Health. 



Pure milk 



It is the simplest^ healthiest and most 
nutritious article of food "which can he 
taken into the system. It digests eas- 
ily, assimilates rapidly and supplies 
nutrition to every part of the body. It 
is life for the little one, hope for the 
invalid and strength for everyone, ♦ , , ♦ 



BUTITMUSTBE 

PURE. 



Pikesville Dairy Co. 

G. W. EVANS, 

PRESIDENT AND GENERAL MANAGER. 

Established 1 87 1, BALTinORE, HD. 



21 EAST CENTRE STREET. 



iot iLattieA, ptntu'mtn and. @hd<l'iMi. 



SEND FOR CATALOQUE. 



Engagements made for Parlor and Public 
Recitals by the Principal. 



(^\.j^iizaUk(^nuui 



WM. R. HALL, 



416 N. PACA STREET. 

One door from Franklin Street. 



CARPETS Cleaned, Stored, Taken Up 

^f^ff J^^1^i/4 Carpets repaired, altered and 

— ^^^^— — — — a.Tl\4 l\f^La.m* sewed in the best manner. . . 



All WorU. Guaranteed. I^Ioderate Prices. 
Terms Casb. 

CARPETS CLEANED ON THE FLOOR BY A SAFE PROCESS. 

Estimates cheerfully given. 

Furniture Stored at reasonable rates, also, Furniture 
Upholstering. Curtains, Lambrequins 
and Portieres hung. 

76 



We shall be pleased to have you 
call and examine our 



(Xut jHciv-t\A at Veaiciiauu fi'iicei. 



Salesroom : 

MULLAN&SON. 

Artistic iV^arble Works. 

Park Ave. & Fayette St. 

Brewer's Exchange Building. 



Louis Horpel & Co. 



K1AIMUFACTURERS OF 






Baking 
Powder 



MOUNTAIN READY PREPARED 

Buckwheat 

Instantaneous Flavored Custard. 



BALTIMORE, MD. 



i3ire you a judge of good whiskey? 

THEN YOU WILL BE FULLY SATISFIED 
WITH THE USE OF 

Somerset Club 




Maryland 
Rye 



Finest Brands of Salt Water 



OYSTERS 



FRIED, 
5 DOZ. FOR $1.00 



Which from 

Mellowness of Age 
_ Exquisite Flavor 

^S and 

■ Tonical Effects 

is the 

Connoisseur's 

Choice 



USED BY FAMILIES, CLUBS, CAFES, i. HOTELS 

Sold at all first-class Grocers 
and by Jobbers. 

EDW. B. BRUCE & CO., = Balto., Md. 



Spiced and Broiled our Specialty. 

DUN LOP, 

HOWARD AND RICHMOND STS. 

Telephone 61 O^. 



77 





5TEAA 

AND WATER 

MEATINQ 

HOT AIR FURNACES, RANGES, 
FIRE PLACE HEATERS. 

Plumbing. 

15 N. How^rJ S^ reel, 

BALTIMORE. 



Guggenheimer, 
Weil & Co. 



109 E. BALTIMORE ST. 



AQENTS 
FOR THE 



Established in 1816. 

The Chas. Siinon's 
Sons Co- 

FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC 

DRY GOODS 

No. 208 
North Hoivard Street t 

BALTIMORE. 

Home Telephone 4058. 



Globe- Wernicke 
Office Furniture and 
Filing Cabinets 



OF ALL SORTS. 



"Globe goods 

are good goods." 



Monuments, 
Tombs, 
Tablets, &c. 



MARBLE ALTARS 

a Specialty. 



cMutlan&Son, 

PARK AVENUE Aso 
FAYETTE STREET. 



78 



CARE OF MILK. 



As Advised by the Filston Farm Dairy. 

J2 Y foUo'wing these feiv directions the 
best results for keeping the milk 
can be had: 



1 



Do not leave the Milk in a warm room, but put it at 
once on ice or in a cool place. 

Keep the portion for Cream undisturbed for at least 
eight hours— the longer it is kept the thicker the cream 
will be. In a cool place cream will thicken with age. 

Do not mix old milk with new, for the new milk will 
at once become as stale as the old. This holds true 
for cream. 

At all times be certain that the ice box is sweet and 
clean and that the milk vessels are rinsed with cold 
water and then with hot or scalding water. 

Do not expose the milk to any strong odor. Some veg- 
etables and meat will affect the milk very unpleas- 
antly. 



The "FILSTON FcARM'' has been most successful in deli-ver- 
ing in ^Baltimore to the 'Johns Hopkins Hospital and private fam- 
iliest a clean pure milk that has met ivith much fa'vor. It is rich 
in the fat contents and other solids, and is especially recommended 
for iveak children and infants and for daily family use* 

Address, FILSTON FARM DAIRY, 



Telephone 2357. 



220 E. PRESTON STREET. 
79 



Labor Saving Cooking Utensils 



TO MAKE YOUR COOK CONTENTED 
AND HAPPY. rVs*\^A THE LARGEST, 
BEST AND MOST COMPLETE HOUSE- 
FURNISHING DEPARTMENT IN THE 
WORLD 

Homes, Hotels, Steamboats, 
Colleges and Institutions supplied* 



J.W. PUTTS, 



COME AND BRING YOUR COOK 
WITH YOU TO SEE THE "NEW- 
FANGLED" IDEAS. 



CHARLES AND FAYETTE STREETS. 





WHISKEY.^ 






|, . 41 SOUTH GAVSTRe^' 

^>lllMAlliOLD5B0ROU6H (o- MAnmoRE,MD> 

FOR SALE BY ALL THE LEADING CLUBS HOTELS AND GROCERS 
THROUGHOUT THE UNITED STATES. 



J. G. TAYLOR & SON. 



Telephone 1825-4. 



Refrigerators t 
Boivling Alleys, 
Shuffle Boards, 
Erratic Spinners, 
Billiard, Pool and 
Combination Tables, 



ft W, Fayette Street, 



J, G, TAYLOR 
&SOK 



KSTAB1.ISHEI> 1839. 



S.B.Sexton&Son, 




Original Patentees, Inventors 
and Manufacturers of 

THE BALTIMORE FIRE-PLACE 

Heaters. 

Also Manufacturers of the best 
Stoves, Ranges and Furnaces. 
Send for testimonial book and 
be convinced. 

S.B.SEXTON&SON 

Foundry, 

511 to 527 W. Conway St. 

Warehouse, 23 E. Lombard St. 

BALTIMORE. 




Sexton's Grand Heater.— The original and 
most perfect fire-place heater ever made; eo 
acknowledged by the trade and public. 



Sexton's Improved Low Down Eadiatino 
Furnace.— Large radiating surface ; perfect 
combustion; economical in use of fuel; porta- 
ble and brick-set. 



81 



ARTHUR E POULTNEY 

Coal and 
Woodw 

Office, No. 1 W. Saratoga Street, 

BALTIMORE, MD. 

YARD. BOLTON. P. R. R. TELEPHONE No. 1916. 

J. SOUTHGATE YEATON. ROBERT TAYLOR 

YEATON & CO. 

Coal and Wood, 

MAIN OFFICE: 

ttW. SARATOGA STREET. 

YARD. BOLTON . 

Branch Office, 15 South Street. Telephone No. 1128. 

82 



JOHN H. WIGHT, 
President. 



W. H. WIGHT, d. H. S. JACKSON, 

Treasurer. Secretary. 



Tf he Sherwood Qistilling Qo. 



COCKEYSVILLE, MD. 




Sherwood Pure Rye 



BALTIMORE OFFICE: 



Nos. 604 and 605 Fidelity Building. 



spring Lake Farm 
Dairy 



Establlsbed 1S8I 



Pure Milk, Cream, Buttermilk, Skim Milk, 
and Curd delivered to its patrons promptly. 
Also manufacturers and dealers in High-grade 
Ice Cream, Water Ices, and Frozen Custard. 
Fancy Creamery Butter, the well-known S. L. 
F. D. brand — our own make. Strictly Fresh 
Eggs. Try us. 



813=815 George Street 



^^ ^X^^,c- LIGHT STREET 

£S S^i^'-^ ■ 

* ' INCORPORATED. 

PACKERS OF J-^. 

^^ Fine 
Canned Goods 



ALWAYS ASK f=OR THE 

"CLIPPER BRAND." 

84 



Baltimore Branch* 



KING AN & CO. 



INDIANAPOLIS, IND. 



225-227 South Street. 



PORK AND BEEF PACKERS. 
•* Reliable Brand'' 



^ SUGAR AND ENGLISH CURED MEATS, .. PURE LARD, 

CANNED MEATS. 
DRESSED BEEF, PORK, MUTTON AND VEAL. 



F. B. JENKINS, Manager. 

85 




^ ^ The "^ '^ 



f^eeley^ur^ 



ALCOHOL 
OPIUM . . . 
TOBACCO 
USING ... 



Produce each a disease 
having definite pathol- 
ogy. The disease yields 
easily to the Double 
Chloride of Gold Treat- 
ment as administered 
at the following Keeley 
Institutes : 



1418 Madison Ave., Baltimore, Md. 
905 E St. N. W., Washington, D. C. 



and Greensboro, N. C. 



S6 



Inebriety=A Disease 

Inebriety, Morphine and other Drug hab- 
its are dependent upon a diseased condi- 
tion of the nervous system. 

The Keeley treatment cures this disease by 
restoring the nerves to a perfectly healthy 
state. It cures by removing tne cause. The re- 
sult is that the patient is left in a normal 
and healthy condition, and he has neither 
cravingf, desire, nor necessity for stimulants. 

Over 270,000 men and women today have 
been permanently cured of the disease of 
inebriety through Dr. Keeley's treatment, 
which is administered only at institutions 
authorized by him. 

The treatment at these institutions is 
pleasant, no restraint is imposed. It is like 
taking a four-weeks' vacation. He only 
knows he is cured. 

The result in the homes of these cured inebri- 
ates is almost beyond belief. Tens of thousands 
of wives, mothers and daughters have had a new 
and blessed experience of joy through the re- 
demption of their loved ones. 

Address either institute for fuller informa- 
tion. Strictly confidential. 



$50.00 



Every Keating is a. Roadster jj 
Every Keating is a Racer , . li 

There is nothing commonplace in the 

KEATING 

In the mechanical construction of the Keating, every piece and part is 
made in our own great factory, and is of the best material obtainable. 
We have the best mechanics in the world, for we are in that section of 
the country that produces them. Our whole plant is under one roof, 
and under the constant supervision of our management. 

OUR PLAN IS TO MAKE 

THE BEST BICITCI^E OiT Eu?^I?<TKC 

THAT'S WHY 
ALL KEATINGS ARE ROADSTERS, 
ALL KEATINGS ARE RACERS. 

Send for catalog, prices, and terms. 

THE DIAMOND WHEEL CO, ] "^^LTSr/*- 

E. PERRY, General 9Ianag:er. 



WEDDING INVITATIONS, 
RECEPTION CARDS. 

Engraved or Printed 

in the best and latest style. 



CRESTS, .nONOGRAnS AND STREET DIES 



CUT AND EMBOSSED. 

Guggenheimer, Weil & Co. 
%n ^tationcrjef, 

109 E. BALT1A\0RE STREET. 

87 



J-aetory, 43 S. Jliberty St 



9 Dit 



Diploma. 'St ^^ 

., T": X Snanufacfurers of Stucco zHelief. 

Niederlaus ,jr 




Diploma. 

Leipsig ••• , 
1888 




Decorative Work, 
Fresco and House Painting^ 
Paper Hanging^ 
Windcnv Shades* 

901 MADISON AVENUE, 

BALTIMORE. 



2t5 North Hcnvard Street. 



Hildebrandt 8 Co* 



Successors to Madame Foltat. 



DESIGNING 
STcAMPING 

EMBROIDERY 
PINKING 

8S 



FLEISGHMAHH'S 

VEGETABLE VPAQT 
COMPRESSED IMOl 

HAS NO EQUAL 



'As we journey through life 




JOHN W. 

Qruett, 

^ STEAM J« 

Bread Bakery 



1H.1I6-II8S. EDENST. 



Let us live by the way." 



Baltimore, Md. 



^ 111 ^ 

EAST BALTIMORE 

STREET. 



Baltimore 
Transfer Company, — ^ 

COACHES OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. 

C FECIAL Attention to the move- ^ Xallv-HoS - - - - - 

ment of passengers and bag- f^f% ^ \. y^, 

gage and freights of all kinds. - - ^ Band WagODS - - 

Estimates made for hauling hoist- ^ BuSSCS and 

ing and shipping safes and heavy ^m^ 

machinery. Park Phactons - - 



Before Making your Summer Plans 
send for 

The Baltimore, Chesapeake and Atlantic 
Railway Company's 



^^ Summer Book 



55 



READY FOR DISTRIBUTION ABOUT APRIL 1 5th, 1898 

Write or apply to T. MURDOCH, G. P. A., 
Ill E. BALTIMORE ST. 

90 



Remember 



you can contribute wisely and 
liberally to Charity by buying 
your KINDLING WOOD . . , 
from the Friendly Inn^ you pro- 
vide work, food and shelter for 
homeless and unemployed men 
who prefer your aid in this way. 
Best pine kindling wood, any 
size delivered promptly. Solic- 
iting your patronage for the 
cause, we remain respectfully, 

30i9 S. Sharp Street. Oen'l Mauagrer. 



U.C.L.A. Employment Bureau, 

JOHN H. LEACH, MANAGER. 

NOS. 21 and 23 EAST CENTRE STREET. 



MALE AND FEMALE HELP, Furnishing Cooks, Cham- 
bermaids, Nurses, Seamstresses, Laundresses, Housekeepers, 
Waiters, or Coachmen, with reference. 



The only Bureau in the city endorsed by the State Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
See Report of Mr. A. B. Howard, Chief of State Bureau of Labor, of 
Maryland General Assembly, 1894. 



The Board of Directors have received many letters recommend- 
ing the Bureau, and the Manager will be pleased to give any infor- 
mation or reference desired. 

91 



For the best BEE BRAND FLAVORING 
EXTRACTS of Lemon, Vanilla, etc., abso- 
lutely unadulterated, also pure Spices imported 
by us and ground in our mills, favor us with a 
call at 44 S. Charles Street. 

You will receive courteous attention and 
feel satisfied with your purchases. 



McCORMICK & CO. 

Manufacturing Chemists and Spice Grinders. 

Laboratory and Salesroom: 44 S. Charles Street. 
Spice Mills: 21 E. Lombard Street. 

Philadelphia Branch: 20 N. Front Street. 

New York Office: 63 Park Place. 



^sasHsssHsasHsasssssHSEsssHSHSHSfasssHsasasa^ 



THOMAS DAVIS, 



DEALER IN THE BEST 
QUALITY OF 



Fresh Vegetables and Fruit 



stalls, 26 and 28 Rtcbmond inarket, 

BALTIMORE, MD. 

WE ARE IN DAILY ATTENDANCE. 

MARKET BASKETS DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE 

62 



CHAMPAGNE CiBER EXTRA DRT 






JOHN HRNZ'i 



v\'j-\A'irf'i'Ar,/ 



W. H. CLARK. MANAGER. 



JVlonitor Steam Qenerator JVJfg. Co. 

BREWERS' EXCHANGE BUILDING, 

FAYETTE STREET AND PARK AVENUE, 

BALTIMORE. 

Estimates furnished for Steam and Hot Water Heating. 

Send for Catalogue and Prices ^ to Home 

or Branch Offices* 

BRANCHES : — Philadelphia, 49 North Seventh Street. 
Reading, 134 North Ninth Street. 

HOME OFFICE AND WORKS : — Landisville, Penna. 

93 



Artistic Stationers^ 

ENGRAVERS 

LITHOGRAPHERS 

PRINTERS 

Office and Library Furnishings. 

BLANK BOOK MAKERS. 




Fine Art 
Pottery 



A SPECIALTY 



SOLE AGENTS FOR THE 

Globe- Wernicke Filing Cabinets of all kinds, and the 
Wernicke Co, System of Elastic Book Cases, 

NOVEL AND PRACTICAL. 

GUGGENHEIMER, WEIL & CO. 

109 EAST BALTIMORE STREET. 

Factory, 43 S. Liberty Street. 



94 



000 431 676 9 



