Left Overs 





Mrs. S. T. Rorer 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

Chap. Copyright JS'O 

sheif.n^a&a 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



LEFT OVERS 



Copyright 1898 by 
SARAH TYSON RORER 



COP«f^^ 






LEFT OVERS 

H<yiv to transform them 
into palatable and 'whole- 
some dishes^ With many 
nezu and valuable recipes 



By MRS S T RORER 

^{rector of ThiUdetphU Cooking School 
and Author of Mrs 'Hirer's Cook 'Book 
New Salads, Canning and 'Preserving 
and 'various other ^oforks on Cookery 



Published at Philadelphia by 
ARNOLD AND COMPANY 



Printed at the Sign of the Ivy 
Leaf in Philadelphia by George 
H Buchanan and Company 



M 



35927 





ISE forethought, which means 
economy, stands as the first 
of domestic duties. Poverty 
in no way affects skill in the 
preparation of food. The 
object of cooking is to draw 
out the proper flavor of each individual 
ingredient used in the preparation of a 
dish, and render it more easy of digestion. 
Admirable flavorings are given by the 
little left overs of vegetables that too often 
find their way into the garbage bucket. 
Economical marketing does not mean 
the purchase of inferior articles at a 
cheap price, but of a small quantity of 
the best materials found in the market ; 
these materials to be wisely and econom- 
ically used. Small quantity and no waste, 
just enough and not a piece too much, is 
a good rule to remember. In roasts and 
steaks, however, there will be, in spite of 
careful buying, bits left over, that, if 



economically used, may be converted 
into palatable, sightly and wholesome 
dishes for the next day's lunch or supper. 

Never purchase the so-called tender 
meat for stews, Hamburg steaks or 
soups ; nor should you purchase a round 
or shoulder steak for broiling, nor an 
old chicken for roasting. Select a fowl 
for a fricassee, a chicken for roasting, 
and a so-called spring chicken for broil- 
ing. Each has its own individual price 
and place. 

Save for stock, every bone, whether 
beef, mutton, poultry or game, as well as 
all the juices that are left in the meat 
carving dishes on the table, and the 
water in which meats are boiled and in 
which certain vegetables are boiled. Into 
this storehouse — for such a stock pot is 
— will go also the tough ends from the 
rib roasts, which would become tasteless 
and dry if roasted ; the bits that are taken 
from the PVench chops ; the bone that is 
left on the plate from the sirloin steak ; 
and every piece of the carcass left on the 
general carving plate of all sorts of 
game and poultry. After the meat has 
been taken from the roast, these bones 
will also be used. 



STOCK 

In all good cooking there is a con- 
stant demand for a half pint or a pint of 
stock. Brown sauce and tomato sauce, 
in fact, all meat sauces, are decidedly 
better made from stock than water, 
and as it comes to every household 
without the additional cost of a penny, 
there is no excuse whatever for beinsr 
without it. Save the bones collected on 
Saturday, Sunday and Monday. Chicken 
and veal bones may be kept together ; 
beef, mutton and ham in another lot ; 
one makes a white stock, the other 
brown. If the quantity is small put 
them all together. Crack the bones, 
put them in the bottom of a large 
soup kettle, cover with cold water, bring 
slowly to boiling point and skim. Push 
the kettle to the back part of the stove 
where the stock may simmer for at 
least three hours, then add an onion into 
which you have stuck twelve cloves, a 
bay leaf, a few celery tops, or a little cel- 
ery seed, and a carrot cut into slices ; 
simmer gently for another hour and 
strain. Tuesdays and Saturdays are the 



S LEFT OILERS 

best days for making stock, as they are 
the days on which you have long, con- 
tinuous fires, Tuesdays for ironing pur- 
poses, Saturdays for bread baking; in 
this way you will economize in coal, 
heat and time. 

In making tomato soup, to each 
pint of tomatoes add a pint of this stock 
instead of water ; or the stock may be 
simply heated, nicely seasoned and used 
as clear soup. By adding a little cooked 
rice or macaroni, you will have a rice or 
a macaroni soup. 

In cream soups, where stock takes 
the place of water, less milk gives equal, 
perhaps better, results. For instance, in 
cream of celery soup, cover the celery 
with cold stock instead of water, using a 
quart instead of a pint of water, and then 
use only a pint of milk, having in the end 
the same quantity of a much more tasty 
soup at a less cost. One soon learns 
that all made-over dishes are more savory 
where stock is used in place of water. 
If peas, beans or cabbage are being 
cooked, this water may be added to that 
in which beef or mutton has been boiled, 
the whole reduced carefully by rapid 
boiling, strained and put aside for use. 



MEAT 



MEAT 



As meat is the most costly and 
extravagant of all articles of food, it 
behooves the housewife to save all left 
overs and work them over into other 
dishes. The so-called inferior pieces — not 
inferior because they contain less nour- 
ishment, but inferior because the demand 
for such meat is less — should be used 
for all dishes that are chopped before 
cooking, as Hamburg steaks, curry balls, 
kibbce, or for stews, ragouts, pot roasts 
and various dishes where a sauce is used 
to hide the inferiority and ugliness of 
the dish. We have no occasion here to 
spend money on good looks. 

If one purchases meat for soup, the 
leg and shin are the better parts. This, 
however, is not necessary in the ordi- 
nary family, as there are always suffi- 
cient bones left over for daily stock. All 
meat left over from beef tea, tasteless as 
it is, may be nicely seasoned and made 
into curries or into pressed meat, giving 
again a nice dish for lunch or supper. 
Remember, that where the flavoring of 
the beef has been drawn out into the 



lo LEFT OVERS 

water, as in making beef tea, another 
decided flavor must be added to make 
the made-over dish palatable. For this 
reason, curries, pressed meats, served 
with either Worcestershire or tomato 
sauce, are chosen. 

Cold mutton may be made into pilau, 
hashed on toast with tomato sauce, 
hashed with caper sauce, made into 
escalloped mutton, barbacued mutton, 
casserole, or macaroni timbale; all 
sightly dishes, quite handsome enough 
to place before the choicest guest. Spiced 
meats, as beef a la Diode, may be served 
cold with cream horseradish sauce and 
aspic jelly. If warm, they will be made 
into ragouts, or some form of dish with 
a brown or tomato sauce. It is well to 
bear in mind that white meats will be 
served with white or yellow sauces ; 
dark meats with brown or tomato sauces. 
The coarse tops of the sirloin steak, the 
tough end of the rump steak, if broiled, 
cannot possibly be eaten, as the dry heat 
renders them difficult of mastication. 
Cut them off before the steak is broiled, 
and put them aside to use for Hamburg 
steaks, curry balls, timbale or cannelon, 
making a new and sightly dish from that 



MEAT II 

which would otherwise have been thrown 
away. 

If you use ham, and have had apiece 
boiled, after the even slices are taken off, 
chip the remaining tender pieces for friz- 
zled ham, making it as frizzled beef is 
made. The bits around the bone that 
cannot possibly be sliced, will be chopped 
and made into potted or deviled ham. 
Throw the bone into the stock pot. 

A meat chopper or grinder, which 
costs but a dollar and a half or two dol- 
lars, will save its price in the utility of 
these scraps in less than a month. 

The water in which you boil a leg of 
mutton, chicken, turkey or a fresh beefs 
tongue, or such vegetables as string 
beans, peas, rice, macaroni or barley, put 
aside and use in place of plain water to 
cover the bones for stock-making. The 
water in which cabbage is boiled should 
be saved alone and used the next day for 
a soup Crecy ; the flavor of the cabbage, 
with a carrot that has been slightly 
browned in butter, makes a delightful 
soup without the addition of meat. 



12 LEFT OVERS 



BEEF-UNCOOKED 

The uncooked tough bits or pieces 
of beef may be made into any of the 
following dishes : 

Kibbee 

Chop uncooked tough meat veiy fine ; 
put it twice through a grinder. To each 
pound, allow a tablespoon ful of grated 
onion, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
a teaspoonful of salt, just a dash of pep- 
per, and a half cup of toasted piiion nuts. 
Form into balls about the size of an egg, 
stand in a baking pan, add a half pint of 
strained tomatoes, a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, and bake slowly thirty minutes, bast- 
ing three or four times. If more than 
one pound of meat is used, all the in- 
gredients must be increased accordingly. 

Hamburg Steaks 

The genuine Hamburg steaks are 
rich in onion and very rich in fatty mat- 
ter, too much so to be wholesome ; so 
we will modify them, that they may be 
eaten even by dyspeptics or persons with 
weak digestion. Put twice through a 



BEEF— UNCOOKED 13 

meat chopper the tough ends of steaks 
or bits of the round. To each pound of 
this meat allow a half teaspoonful of 
celery seed, a teaspoonful of grated 
onion. Form into thick even cakes, 
being sure that the centre and sides are 
the same thickness. These may now be 
broiled over a clear fire, or under the 
gas Hghts in your gas broiler, or they 
may be dropped into a thoroughly heated 
iron pan. As soon as browned on one 
side, turn and brown the other. If the 
steaks are an inch thick, it will take 
eight minutes for perfect cooking. An 
exceedingly satisfactory way is to brown 
them quickly over a hot fire, then put 
the pan in the oven and allow them 
to cook for five minutes. Dust with 
salt, season with a little butter and 
pepper, and send to the table on a very 
hot dish ; or serve with brown or tomato 
sauce. If they have been cooked over 
the fire, or in the oven, put a table- 
spoonful of butter into the pan in which 
they were cooked, add a tablespoonful of 
flour, a half cup of stock, and a half cup 
of strained tomatoes. When boiling, 
add a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pep- 
per, and pour over the steaks. 



14 LEFT OVERS 

Cannelon 

Put twice through the meat chopper 
one pound of tough meat, season with a 
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, 
and, if you hke, a little celery seed or 
chopped celery top ; take this chopped 
meat into your hands, and form it into a 
roll about four inches in diameter and six 
inches long. Roll this in a piece of oiled 
paper, put it in a baking pan, bake in a 
quick oven thirty minutes, basting the 
paper with melted butter three or four 
times. When done, carefully remove the 
paper, dish the cannelon, and pour around 
plain tomato sauce. 

Brown Stew 

Cut any left-over pieces of uncooked 
tough meat into cubes of one inch. Put 
a couple of tablespoonfuls of suet into a 
saucepan ; when rendered out, remove 
the cracklings. Dust the bits of meat 
with a tablespoonful of flour, throw them 
into the hot suet, and shake until brown. 
Draw the meat to one side, and add to 
the fat in the pan a second tablespoonful 
of flour ; mix, add one pint of water or 
stock, stir until boiling, add a teaspoonful 
of salt, a bay leaf, slice of onion, a tea- 



BEEF— UNCOOKED 15 

spoonful of browning or kitchen bouquet ; 
cover and simmer gently until the meat is 
tender, about an hour and a half. The 
proportions given here are for one pound 
of beef. This may be served plain, or in 
a border of rice, or with dumplings. If 
dumplings, put a pint of flour into a bowl, 
add a teaspoonful of salt and one of bak- 
ing powder ; mix thoroughly and add 
sufficient milk to just moisten ; drop by 
spoonfuls over the top of the stew, cover 
the saucepan and cook for ten minutes. 
Do not lift the cover during the ten 
minutes or the dumplings will fall. 

Beef Timbale 

Chop fine any left-over tough bits of 
lean beef. Cook together for a moment 
a gill of strained tomatoes and one cup of 
bread crumbs ; add to the meat, rub to a 
smooth paste, season with a quarter of a 
teaspoonful of celery seed, a half tea- 
spoonful of salt and a dash of pepper ; 
mix, and then stir in carefully the well- 
beaten whites of two eggs ; fill into cus- 
tard cups, stand in a pan of boiling water, 
and cook in a moderate oven twenty min- 
utes. Serve with tomato sauce. This 
recipe is for one pound of beef. 



i6 LEFT OVERS 



BEEF— COOKED 

Ragout 

Cut pieces of cold boiled or roasted 
beef into cubes of one inch ; to each 
quart of this allow two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, two of flour and a pint of stock. 
Rub the butter and flour together, add 
the stock, stir until boiling ; add a table- 
spoonful of onion juice, a teaspoonful of 
browning or kitchen bouquet, a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a tablespoonful of tomato 
catsup, a tablespoonful chopped parsley; 
add the meat ; stand over the back part 
of the stove until thoroughly hot ; serve 
on a heated platter garnished with trian- 
gular pieces of toasted bread. A few 
left-over olives, mushrooms, or even a 
chopped truffle, may be added. 

Bresleau 

Chop sufficient cold cooked meat to 
make one pint, season it with a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a quarter of a teaspoonful 
of pepper. Put a half cup of stock 
or water, two tablespoonfuls of bread 
crumbs and a tablespoonful of butter 



BEEF— COOKED 17 

over the fire ; when hot, add to it the 
meat ; take from the fire and stir in care- 
fully two well-beaten eggs. Put this in 
greased custard cups, stand them in a 
baking pan half filled with boiling water, 
and bake in a moderate oven fifteen or 
twenty minutes ; serve with tomato sauce 
or sauce Bechamel. 



Beef Croquettes 

Chop sufficient cold cooked beef to 
make one pint ; add to it a teaspoonful 
of salt, teaspoonful of onion juice, a dash 
of cayenne, a quarter of a teaspoonful 
of pepper, and a grating of nutmeg. 
Put a half pint of milk over the fire. 
Rub together one tablespoonful of butter 
and two tablespoonfuls of flour, add 
them to the hot milk, stir until you have 
a smooth thick paste ; take from the 
fire ; mix with it the meat, and turn out 
to cool. When cold, form into cro- 
quettes. Beat one egg, add to it a 
tablespoonful of warm water, and beat 
again. Dip the croquettes first into this, 
then roll them in bread crumbs, and fry 
them in smoking hot fat. They may be 
served plain or with tomato sauce. 



i8 LEFT OVERS 

Beef Steak Pudding 

Cut cold cooked steak into cubes of 
a half inch. To each pint of these 
allow a half pint of milk, six tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, two eggs, and two table- 
spoonfuls of chopped suet. Put the 
flour into a bowl ; beat the eggs, add to 
them the milk, then add gradually 
to the flour ; make perfectly smooth. 
Cover the bottom of a baking dish 
with a layer of the batter, put in the 
bits of steak, sprinkle over the chopped 
suet, then a dusting of salt and pep- 
per, and, if you like, a few drops of 
onion juice ; now put over the remaining 
quantity of the batter, and bake in a 
moderately quick oven an hour and a 
half. 

Potato Dumplings 

Take any pieces of cold cooked meat, 
chop them fine, season carefully with 
salt, pepper, chopped parsley or celery. 
To each pint allow two tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter. For the crust you 
may use left-over cold mashed pota- 
toes ; if so, add a Httle milk and stir 
them over the fire until smooth and hot. 
If potatoes are boiled for the purpose, 



BEEF— COOKED 19 

add salt, butter and milk, and beat 
them until light. Line to the depth 
of one inch, a baking dish, put the meat 
in the centre, cover the top with mashed 
potatoes, smooth, brush with milk and 
bake in a moderate oven a half hour. 



Qobbits 

Scrape and cut into fancy pieces one 
good sized carrot and one turnip. Put 
these into a saucepan, cover with a pint 
of stock, and cook slowly until the vege- 
tables are tender. Have ready, cut into 
cubes of one inch, sufficient cold cooked 
beef to make a quart ; add ic to the vege- 
tables, simmer a few minutes until the 
meat is hot ; have ready also one cup of 
rice that has been boiled thirty minutes 
in clear water, drained and dried. Arrange 
this in a border around the meat dish. 
Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and flour 
into a saucepan ; mix. Drain the liquor 
from the meat and vegetables, Avhich 
should now measure one pint ; if not, add 
sufficient stock to make a pint; add this 
to the butter and flour, and stir until boil- 
ing. Dish the meat and vegetables in the 
centre of the rice border. Take the 



20 LEFT OVERS 

sauce from the fire, add a teaspoonful of 
salt, a dash of pepper and the yolks of 
two eggs. Reheat for just an instant, 
strain over the meat mixture, dust with 
chopped parsley, and serve at once. 

Beef Fritters 

Chop sufficient cold cooked beef to 
make one pint ; add to it a teaspoonful of 
salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
pepper. Beat two eggs until light, add 
to them a half pint of water or stock ; 
stir into this one and a half cups of flour, 
beat until smooth, add a teaspoonful of 
baking powder and the meat. Drop this 
by spoonfuls into smoking hot fat ; cook 
about three minutes, drain on brown 
paper, and serve either on a folded 
napkin, or in a dish with tomato sauce. 

Minced Beef on Toast 

Take the meat from between the 
bones of a rib roast, or any little bits 
that would not be serviceable in other 
dishes, chop them fine, and to each 
pint, allow one tablespoonful of butter, 
one of flour and a half pint of tomatoes or 



BEEF— COOKED 21 

stock. Mix the butter and flour together, 
then add the tomatoes strained or 
stock ; when boiHng add the meat, and a 
palatable seasoning of salt and pepper. 
Stand the mixture over hot water until 
smoking hot, and serve on squares of 
toasted bread. 



Barbacue of Cold Beef 

Cut cold-roasted or boiled beef into 
thin slices. Put into your saucepan two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoon- 
fuls of catsup and two tablespoonfuls of 
sherry ; stir until hot ; drop the sHces of 
beef into this, cover the saucepan, shake 
occasionally for a minute, until the beef 
is smoking hot, and send at once to the 
table. This is exceedingly nice made 
and served from a chating dish. This 
dish may be made by omitting the sherry 
and using a teaspoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce, a teaspoonful of mushroom catsup 
and two tablespoonfuls of stock. 

Salt Beef 

Cold cooked corned beef is best 
made into hash. Chop sufficient to 



22 LEFT OILERS 

make one pint. Chop the same quan- 
tity of cold boiled potatoes; mix the 
two together, put them into a sauce- 
pan, add half pint of stock, a table- 
spoonful of butter, teaspoonful of onion 
juice and a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
black or white pepper. Stir carefully 
and constantly until the mixture reaches 
the boiling point. Serve at once on but- 
tered toast. 

Hash No. 2 

Chop enough cold cooked corned 
beef to make a pint; chop the same 
quantity of cold boiled potatoes ; mix 
the two together. Put them into a stew- 
ing pan, add one pint of stock ; simmer 
for just a moment; take from the fire, 
add two eggs well beaten, a dash of pep- 
per; turn the mixture into a baking 
dish and bake in a quick oven twenty 
minutes. 



MUTT OhI— UNCOOKED 23 

MUTTON-UNCOOKED 

Tough pieces of uncooked mutton 
may be put twice through the meat chop- 
per and used for curry balls or for stuff- 
ing for tomatoes or egg plant ; in fact, in 
almost any way that one would serve 
uncooked beef. Having fewer pieces of 
uncooked scrap mutton than of beef, we 
are less accustomed to seeing them used. 

Curry Balls 

Put any pieces of tough uncooked 
mutton twice through the meat chopper ; 
season the meat with salt, pepper and 
onion juice. Form into little balls the 
size of an English walnut. Put two 
tablespoonfuls of butter into a saucepan; 
when hot, throw the balls into the butter, 
and shake until carefully browned. Lift 
them from the saucepan, and to the 
butter in the pan add a teaspoonful of 
curry, a tablespoonful of flour, mix and 
add a half pint of stock ; stir carefully 
until boiling ; pour this over the balls, 
cook slowly for twenty minutes, add two 
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and serve in 
a border of rice. Cocoanut milk may be 
used in the place of stock. 



24 LEFT OVERS 



MUTTON-COOKED 

While mutton belongs to the red 
meats, when carefully cooked it may be 
used in many ways in which you would 
use chicken or veal. Capers and tomato, 
with a slight flavoring of mint, are more 
agreeable with mutton than with almost 
any other meats. 

Bobotee 

Chop sufficient cold boiled mutton to 
make a pint. Put two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and one onion sliced into a sauce- 
pan ; stir until the onion is slightly brown; 
then add a half pint of stock or milk and 
four tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs. 
Stand this on the back of the stove for 
about five minutes while you blanch and 
chop fine a dozen almonds. Add these to 
the meat, then add a teaspoonful of curry 
powder, and a teaspoonful of salt. Beat 
three eggs until light, stir them into the 
meat, then turn the whole into the sauce- 
pan. Rub the bottom of the baking 
dish first with a clove of garlic, then 
sprinkle over a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice and put here and there a few bits 



MUTTON— COOKED 25 

of butter ; put on this the mixture, and 
bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. 
Serve in the dish in v/hich it is baked, 
and pass with it plain boiled rice. 

Boudins 

Chop sufficient cold cooked mutton 
to make a pint. Put a half cup of stock, 
two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs and 
a tablespoonful of butter over the fire. 
When hot, take from the fire, add the 
meat and three eggs well beaten ; add a 
teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. 
Put the mixture into greased custard 
cups, stand in a baking pan half filled 
with boiling water, and cook in a moder- 
ate oven fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve 
with sauce Bechamel. The bottom of 
the cups may be garnished with chopped 
mushrooms, capers, or chopped truffles, 
or dusted thickly v/ith chopped parsley. 

Klopps 

Chop sufficient cold boiled mutton to 
make a pint; add to it a half pint of 
bread crumbs and sufficient white of egg 
to bind the whole together ; add a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a dash of white 



26 LEFT OVERS 

pepper. Form into balls the size of English 
walnuts; drop into a kettle of boiling 
water ; pull the kettle to one side of the 
fire where it cannot possibly boil, and 
cook the klopps slowly for five or six 
minutes. When done they will float on 
the surface. Lift, drain carefully, put on 
to a heated dish, pour over cream celery 
or cream oyster sauce, and serve with 

them peas and boiled rice. 

^^ 

Curry of flutton 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and 
one sliced onion into a pan; cook slowly 
until the onion is perfectly tender ; add 
one clove of garlic mashed, a teaspoonful 
of curry powder and a teaspoonful of tur- 
meric ; mix thoroughly, add a half pint 
of stock, or, better cocoanut milk ; stir 
until boiling, add one quart of cold 
cooked mutton chopped fine ; heat thor- 
oughly, add a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, and pour at once into a platter that 
has been garnished with boiled rice. 

flutton with Anchovy 

Chop sufficient cold boiled mutton to 
make one pint ; mash fine three anchovies. 



MUTTON— COOKED 27 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter into a 
saucepan, add one sliced onion, cook 
until tiie onion is soft and yellow, add a 
clove of garlic mashed, add to this the 
anchovies and a half pint of stock ; sim- 
mer gently for fifteen minutes, and press 
through a sieve. Add a tablespoonful 
of capers, two or three leaves of mint 
that have been bruised, and the mutton 
chopped fine. Heat over boiling water 
for fifteen minutes, and serve on squares 
of toasted bread. This may be served 
plain or the top of each piece may be 
capped with a carefully poached ^gg. 



Pilau 

Cut into bits any pieces of cold cooked 
mutton ; put them into a saucepan, cover 
with water, add a grated onion, a bay 
leaf and two or three cardamom seeds. 
Sprinkle over a half cup of rice that has 
been carefully washed ; cover the kettle 
and simmer slowly until the rice is tender. 
Dish the mutton, putting the rice over 
the top, cover the whole w^ith a nicely 
made tomato sauce, and send at once to 
the table. 



28 LEFT OVERS 

Mutton Salad 

Any pieces of cold-roasted or boiled 
mutton may be cut into dice and used 
for an ordinary mutton salad. At serv- 
ing time arrange this neatly on lettuce 
leaves, or any accessible green ; season 
with salt and pepper, and cover with 
mayonnaise dressing to w^hich has been 
added a tablespoonful of capers. 

Where celery, lettuce or other fresh 
greens cannot be procured, canned 
asparagus may be mixed with the mut- 
ton or may be served with it as a garnish ; 
giving an exceedingly agreeable accom- 
paniment. Where asparagus cannot be 
obtained, a can of peas may be drained, 
washed, drained again, and added to the 
mutton before it is mixed with the mayon- 
naise dressing, or the mutton may be 
mixed with mayonnaise and filled into 
tomatoes that have been peeled and 
the centres scooped out. Stand each on 
a little nest of lettuce leaves or on a 
bunch of cress, and garnish the top with 
caperSo 



CHICKEN— UNCOOKED 29 

CHICKEN-UNCOOKED 

In purchasing a chicken for timbale, 
select a large one, but not an old fowl. 
After the chicken has been drawn, remove 
the white meat, which is used uncooked 
for timbales. The dark meat may be 
cooked at once and utilized for boudins, 
croquettes, salad, cecils, creamed hash, 
or served on toast with sauce Bordelaise, 
or used in chafing dish next day. Or if 
you prefer to use it raw, devil the legs 
and use the bones for soup. 

Timbale 

Chop fine the uncooked white meat 
of a chicken ; this should weigh a half 
pound. Then rub it with the back of a 
wooden spoon against the side of a bowl 
until perfecdy smooth. Put one cup of 
white bread crumbs and a half cup of 
milk over the fire; stir until boiling; 
when cold, rub this thoroughly with the 
meat, and press it through an ordinary 
flour sieve. Stir into it carefully the well- 
beaten whites of five eggs, add a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a dash of white pepper ; 
fill into greased timbale cups, stand in a 
baking pan of boiling water, cover with 
oiled paper, and bake in a moderate oven 



30 LEFT OVERS 

fifteen to twenty minutes. The bottoms 
of the cups may be garnished with 
chopped truffle, chopped mushrooms, 
chopped parsley, or nicely cooked green 
peas. Serve with the timbales either a 
plain cream sauce or a cream mushroom 
sauce. Peas are the usual accompaniment. 
Or the timbalc molds may be lined 
with this mixture, and the centres filled 
with creamed mushrooms ; put enough 
of the timbale mixture over the top to 
hold in the stuffing; they will then be 
cooked and served in the usual manner. 

Deviled Chicken Legs 

Carefully remove the bones from the 
legs of an uncooked chicken. To a half 
cup of bread crumbs add twelve chopped 
almonds, two tablespoonfuls of toasted 
pinon nuts, a tablespoonful of parsley, 
a half teaspoonful of salt and a dash 
of cayenne ; moisten with two table- 
spoonfuls of butter. Stuff this into the 
spaces from v/hich you have taken the 
bones, tie the legs top and bottom to keep 
in the stuning. Place the bones from the 
carcass of the chicken in the soup kettle, 
cover with cold water, and when the 
water reaches boiling point place the 
legs on top of the bones and cook con- 



CHICKEN— UNCOOKED Zi 

tinuously for two hours. They may be 
served hot with sauce, or cold, cut into 
thin slices garnished with aspic. 

English Chicken Balls 

Chop fine the dark meat left over 
from timbales, add a half can of finely 
chopped mushrooms, a teaspoonful of 
salt, a half teaspoonful of pepper, a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, a dozen 
blanched and finely chopped almonds and 
one raw egg ; mix thoroughly and form 
into balls the size of an English walnut. 
Arrange these over the bottom of a 
saucepan, cover with stock, add a bay 
leaf, a slice of onion and of carrot ; cook 
slowly a half to three-quarters of an 
hour ; drain, saving the stock. Dish 
the balls in the centre of a platter, put 
around the edge a row of potato bullets, 
outside of that small triangles of toast. 
Put a tablespoonful of butter and one of 
flour into a saucepan ; mix, add a half pint 
of stock in which the balls were cooked, 
stir until boiling, take from the fire, add 
the yolk of one Qg^ beaten with two 
tablespoonfuls of cream ; add a half tea- 
spoonful of salt and dash of pepper; 
strain this over the balls and serve. 



32 LEFT OVERS 



CHICKEN-COOKED 

The remains of cold chicken or turkey 
may be used in precisely the same man- 
ner, or made into croquettes, using the 
same rule as for beef croquettes. With 
an accompaniment of mayonnaise of cel- 
ery, or mayonnaise of tomato, they make 
an extremely good luncheon dish. For 
an evening entertainment they may be 
simply garnished with cooked peas. 
Meat croquettes are usually made into 
pyramid forms ; they may, however, be 
made into cylinders. Boudins of chicken 
or turkey are also exceedingly nice. 



Creamed Hash on Toast 

This is one of the tastiest of all the 
warmed-over chicken dishes. Chop the 
chicken fine, and to each pint allow one 
tablespoonful of butter, one of flour and 
a half pint of milk. Rub the butter and 
flour together, add the milk, stir over the 
fire until boiling, season the meat with a 
teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper, 
add to the milk sauce, and stir over hot 
water for fifteen minutes. The flavoring 



CHICKEN— COOKED 33 

may be changed by adding three or four 
chopped mushrooms, or, if you have it, 
a chopped truffle ; but it is exceedingly 
good plain. Heap this on squares of 
nicely toasted bread, serve at once, or 
you may garnish the tops with carefully 
poached eggs. 

Casserole 

Wash a half cup of rice ; throw it into 
boiling water, boil for twenty minutes, 
drain, add a half cup of milk, a table- 
spoonful of butter, a level teaspoonful of 
salt and a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
pepper; stir until you have a rather 
smooth thick paste. Brush custard cups, 
line them to the depth of a half inch with 
this rice mixture ; make a plain milk 
sauce, as in preceding recipe, and add 
a pint of seasoned chicken. Fill the 
space in the rice cups with this cream 
mixture, put over a covering of rice, 
stand the cups in a pan of boiling water, 
and bake in a moderate oven for twenty 
to twenty-five minutes. Turn these care- 
fully on a heated dish, pour around 
cream sauce and serve. They may be 
garnished with green peas, mushrooms 



34 LEFT OVERS 

or truffles. While this is an exceedingly 
economical dish it is at the same time an 
elegant one. 

Indian Hash 

Chop fine sufficient cold-roasted 
duck, chicken, or turkey to make one 
pint. Cut a good-sized onion into 
very thin slices. Pare, core, and chop 
fine one apple. Put two tablespoonfuls 
of butter in a saucepan, add the apple 
and the onion ; toss until brown, then 
add not more than an eighth of a tea- 
spoonful of powdered mace, a half tea- 
spoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of curry 
powder, a tablespoonful of flour, a tea- 
spoonful of sugar ; mix and add a half 
pint of stock or water ; now add the 
meat, stir constantly until smoking hot, 
then stand over hot water, covering 
closely for twenty minutes. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and serve 
in a border of rice. 



Mock Terrapin or a la Newburg 

Pieces of cold-roasted chicken, turkey 
or duck may be used for making terra- 
pin or a la Newburg. Cut the meat 



CHICKEN— COOKED 35 

into pieces of fairly good size ; meas- 
ure, and to each pint of this allow a 
half pint of sauce ; rub together two 
tablespoonfuls of butter and one of flour. 
Rub to a smooth paste the hard boiled 
yolks of three eggs ; add to the butter 
and flour a gill and a half (three-quarters 
of a cup) of milk ; stir until smoking hot. 
Do not let the mixture boil ; then add 
this a little at a time to the yolks of the 
eggs, rubbing until you have a perfectly 
smooth golden sauce ; press this through 
a sieve. Before beginning the sauce, 
sprinkle the chicken with four table- 
spoonfuls of sherry or Madeira, the latter 
preferable. Add the chicken to the 
sauce, stir until each[piece is thoroughly 
covered; add a half teaspoonful of salt, 
just a drop of extract of nutmeg or a 
grating of nutmeg, an eighth of a spoon 
of white pepper (black pepper, of course, 
may be used) ; cover and stand over hot 
water, stirring occasionally until the 
mixture is smoking hot. 



Chicken Supreme 

This may be made from either 
chicken or turkey cut into dice ; add an 



36 LEFT OVERS 

equal quantity of canned mushrooms ; 
for instance, to one pint of cold chicken, 
add one can of mushrooms. Put two 
tablespoonfuls of butter and two of flour 
in a saucepan ; mix without browning, 
then add two cups (one pint) of chicken 
stock ; stir constantly until boiling, add 
two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, and 
the yolks of four eggs ; strain, add the 
chicken and mushrooms, a level tea- 
spoonful of salt, a quarter of a teaspoon- 
ful of white pepper, ten drops of celery 
extract or just a little celery seed. Stand 
this mixture over hot w^ater, watching 
carefully until it is thoroughly heated ; 
remember that any boiling will curdle 
the egg. Serve this on a heated dish 
either in a border of rice or garnished 
with squares of toasted bread. This 
mixture is also served in bread pates, or 
it may be served in chicken muffin cases. 



Chicken Cutlets 

Chop cold cooked chicken or turkey 
very fine; to each pint allow a half can 
of mushrooms chopped fine. Put one 
tablespoonful of butter and two of flour 
into a saucepan, mix, and add a half pint 



CHICKEN-COOKED 37 

of chicken stock. When smooth and 
thick take from the fire, add the yolks of 
two eggs, the chicken and mushrooms, a 
teaspoonful of salt, quarter of a teaspoon- 
ful of pepper, a teaspoonful of onion 
juice, a grating of nutmeg and a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley ; stir over 
the fire for a moment ; turn out to cool ; 
when cold form into cutlet-shaped cro- 
quettes, dip in Qgg and bread crumbs, 
and fry in smoking hot fat. These may 
be served plain, with a garnish of peas, 
or they may be served with sauce 
Bechamel. 



Duck Bordelaise 

Portions of cold duck may be cut into 
convenient pieces, sprinkled with wine, 
about fourtablespoonfuls to the pint, and 
allowed to stand v/hile you make sauce 
Bordelaise. Put one tablespoonful of 
butter and one of flour into a saucepan ; 
mix, add a teaspoonful of browning or 
kitchen bouquet and a half pint of stock ; 
stir until boiling, add a tablespoonful of 
grated onion, a half teaspoonful of salt, a 
dash of pepper and, if you have it, a 
tablespoonful of finely-chopped ham ; 



38 LEFT OVERS 

cook for five minutes and strain ; add 
three or four fresh mushrooms or a half 
dozen canned mushrooms and the duck. 
Stand over boiling water until the mix- 
ture is thoroughly heated. Send to the 
table garnished with triangles of toasted 
bread. A few stoned olives or sliced 
olives may be added in the place of the 
mushrooms, and you would then have 
salmi of duck. 



GAME 39 



GAME 



Bits of cold broiled or roasted game 
may be chopped very fine, rubbed to a 
smooth paste either in a bowl or mortar. 
To each half pint of this mixture allow 
two tablespoonfuls of brown sauce thor- 
oughly rubbed with the game, and the 
unbeaten white of one ^gg ; press the 
whole mixture through an ordinary flour 
sieve ; then stir in the well-beaten whites 
of tw^o eggs, four mushrooms chopped 
almost to a powder, and a seasoning 
of salt and pepper. Fill this into 
little greased molds or cups ; the cups 
may be garnished with chopped truffle 
or mushrooms, or served plain. Fill in 
the mixture, stand the cups in a baking 
pan half filled with boiling water ; cook 
in a moderate oven twenty minutes. The 
little bomb-shaped molds are the better 
sort to use for these. Serve with brown 
sauce either plain or flavored with mush- 
rooms. 



40 LEFT OWERS 



BREAD 



The better way is to cut just suffi- 
cient bread for each meal so that there will 
be really no left-overs. If, however, a few 
slices are accidentally left, put them aside 
in a can or jar, never in the regular bread 
box with the bread ; one or two slices will 
invariably be missed until sufficiently old 
to mold and contaminate the remaining 
quantity of bread in the box, and then, 
too, they are more apt to accumulate in 
this way than in a separate box. The 
neater pieces may be used for toast for 
breakfast or lunch or supper. The next 
best pieces use for bread and butter cus- 
tard ; the crusts dry, roll and put aside to 
be ready for breading articles to be fried, 
or for escalloped dishes. In this way 
every piece, no matter what its condition, 
will be utilized. 

Bread and Butter Custard 

Beat two eggs, without separating, 
until light, add four tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and a pint of milk, mix and add 
a grating of nutmeg ; turn into an ordi- 
nary baking dish, cover the top with 



BREAD 41 

buttered bread, butter side up ; bake in 
a moderate oven just as you would a 
cup custard, until you can put a spoon 
handle down in the centre of the custard 
and it will come out free from milk. 

Little Puddings a la Grand Belle 

Roll slices of stale bread into fine 
crumbs. Brush small custard cups, 
or a border mold with melted butter, 
sprinkle over a few currants or raisins, or 
any fruit that you may have left over. 
Fill the cups with crumbs. Beat three 
eggs, without separating, until light ; add 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar, ateaspoon- 
ful of vanilla and a pint of milk. Pour 
this carefully over the bread crumbs, let 
them stand for about five minutes until 
the mixture has been soaked up and the 
bread crumbs soft ; then stand in a pan 
of boiling water, cover with oiled paper 
and cook in the oven a half hour. 
Turn out and serve hot with ^gg sauce. 

Bread Croquettes 

Rub suflficient stale bread to make 
one quart of crumbs ; add four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, a half cup of cleaned 



42 LEFT OVERS 

currants, or any fruit that you have left 
over, and a grating of nutmeg ; sprinkle 
over a teaspoonful of vanilla, and add 
sufficient beaten eggs (about three) to 
moisten the crumbs. Form into small 
cylinder-shaped croquettes, dip in G.gg 
and roll in bread crumbs and fry in smok- 
ing hot fat. Serve hot with sugar sauce. 

Bread fluffins 

Cover a quart of bits of bread that 
have been broken apart, with one pint of 
milk ; soak for fifteen minutes, then 
with a spoon beat until you have a 
smooth paste ; add the yolks of three 
eggs, a tablespoonful of melted butter 
and one cup of flour that has been sifted 
with a heaping teaspoonful of baking 
powder. Fold in carefully the well- 
beaten whites of the eggs, and bake in 
muffin pans in a quick oven about twenty 
minutes. 

Muffins left from breakfast may be 
pulled apart and toasted for lunch or sup- 
per. Pieces of stale sponge cake, in fact, 
any stale cake may be used for cabinet 
puddings, for cream puddings, or for 
croquettes. 



EGGS 43 



EGGS 



The soft boiled eggs that are left 
from breakfast will be at once hard boiled, 
put into the refrigerator, and when four 
have accumulated, use them for Beaure- 
gard eggs, a la Newburg dishes or gar- 
nishes. Poached eggs that are left over 
may be dropped at once into boiling water, 
cooked slowly until perfectly hard, and 
put aside for chopping, to use as a garnish 
for a curry or some vegetable dish with 
which they will nicely blend. 

The tablespoonful or two of stewed 
tomatoes left in the dish from dinner will 
be put aside to use for tomato omelet, 
or they may be added to the roasted 
beef gravy for dinner, converting a plain 
homely gravy into one of better flavor. 
The half cup of peas may be added to 
to-morrow's consomme, or used as a 
garnish for the breakfast omelet. The 
green portions of celery will be put aside 
for stewing ; the tender white part for 
serving raw ; while the leaves and roots 
will be used for flavoring soups and 
sauces. 

The yolk of egg left over, if put into 



44 LEFT OVERS 

a cup or saucer will, in less than two 
hours, become hard, dry and useless. 
This same yolk dropped into a cup half 
filled with cold water will keep for sev- 
eral days, and may be used for mayon- 
naise or added to a sauce. When needed, 
it may be carefully lifted with a spoon 
and used the same as a fresh yolk. 



Whites of Eggs 

The yolks of eggs are quite easily 
disposed of, as sauces frequently call for 
the yolk of one or two eggs ; then they 
may be used for mayonnaise dressing, or 
added to various dishes. The whites of 
eggs however accumulate. One of the 
ways of getting hard boiled yolks, without 
wasting the whites, is to separate the 
white and the yolk before the ^gg is 
cooked ; drop the yolk down into a kettle 
of boiling water ; then stand on the back 
part of the stove for fifteen or twenty 
minutes until it is hard. The yolk will 
cook in this way just as well as with 
the white in the shell. Now, you have 
the uncooked whites, which may be used 
for a simple white cake, apple float, souf- 
fles, plain or with fruit. 



EGGS 45 

Beauregard Eggs 

Separate the whites and yolks of five 
hard boiled eggs, press through an ordi- 
nary fruit press, or chop very fine. Make 
a half pint of cream sauce ; when boiling, 
add the whites of the eggs. Have ready 
on a heated platter five squares of toasted 
bread ; heap the white sauce over these 
squares, dust the top with the yolks of 
the eggs, then with a little salt and pep- 
per, and send at once to the table. 

Egg Croquettes 

Put five hard boiled eggs through a 
vegetable press, or chopper. Put one 
tablespoonful of butter and two of flour 
into a saucepan, add a half pint of milk, 
stir until boiling, add a half cup of stale, 
unbrowned bread crumbs, a teaspoonful 
of salt, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
a dash of pepper and a half teaspoonful 
of onion juice ; add the eggs, mix and 
turn out to cool. When cold form into 
cutlets, dip in egg and then in bread 
crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat. 
Serve with plain cream sauce. These 
with peas make an exceedingly nice 
luncheon dish. 



46 LEFT OVERS 



POTATOES 



Cold baked potatoes will be converted 
at once into stuffed potatoes, and put aside 
for rewarming. Two cold boiled potatoes 
will make a comfortable dish of hashed 
browned potatoes, or may be served with 
cream sauce or au gratin. 



Stuffed Potatoes 

Baked potatoes that are left over 
must be made into stuffed potatoes before 
they are heavy and cold. At the close 
of the meal at which they were first 
served, cut the potatoes direcUy into 
halves, scoop out the inside portion, put 
it through an ordinary vegetable press, 
or mash it fine ; add a httle butter, salt, 
pepper and sufficient milk to make a 
light mixture ; stand this over hot water 
and beat until hght and smooth. Put it 
back into the shells, and stand them aside 
in a cold place. When ready to serve, 
brush the top with beaten Qgg, run them 
into a quick oven until hot and golden 
brown. 



POTATOES 47 

Potato Croquettes 

Cold mashed potatoes may be made 
into croquettes by adding to each pint 
four tablespoonfuls of heated milk, the 
yolks of two eggs, a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of grated 
onion, a quarter of a teaspoonful of pep- 
per ; stir over the fire until the mixture 
is thoroughly heated ; form into cylinder- 
shaped croquettes, dip in Qgg and rolled 
bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot 
fat. Potato croquettes are more difficult 
to fry than meat croquettes ; the fat 
must be at least 365 degrees (Fahr.) and 
the rolling carefully done. 



Potato Puff 

The above mixture may have the 
whites of the eggs beaten and stirred in, 
and baked in the oven ; serve in the 
same dish in which it was baked. 



Potato Roses for Garnishing 

Cold boiled potatoes may have 
added sufficient milk to make a soft 
paste ; stir it over the fire until smooth ; 



48 LEFT OVERS 

put it into your pastry bag, using a 
star tube ; hold the bag firmly, pressing 
out on greased papers these little potato 
roses ; brown in the oven and use them 
for garnishing fish dishes. 

Potato Custards 

Stir two cups of cold mashed pota- 
toes, with four tablespoonfuls of milk, 
over the fire until they are warm and 
light ; take from the fire and add three 
eggs beaten light with four tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar. Add a teaspoonful of 
vanilla, stir in carefully a pint and a half 
of milk. Put this mixture into greased 
custard cups ; stand in a baking pan of 
boiling water and bake in a moderate oven 
until set, about twenty or thirty minutes. 

Where a Httle cooked meat and, at 
the same time, mashed potatoes, are left 
over, the meat may be seasoned with a 
savory sauce, turned into a baking dish, 
the mashed potatoes slighdy thinned 
with hot milk and then slightly thick- 
ened with flour, and used as a crust. 
This makes what we call a potato pie. 
Four tablespoonfuls of milk and four of 
flour would be a good allowance to each 
cupful of mashed potatoes. 



COLD BOILED POTATOES 49 



COLD BOILED POTATOES 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 

Chop two cold boiled potatoes rather 
fine, season with salt and pepper. Put 
a tablespoonful of butter in an ordinary 
saute-pan ; when hot, put in the pota- 
toes, smoothing and patting them down ; 
stand over a moderate fire and allow 
them to cook undisturbed for at least 
eight minutes ; then with a limber knife 
fold over one half as you would an ome- 
let ; stand again over the fire for about 
three minutes and turn at once on to a 
heated dish. These are exceedingly 
difficult to make. Directions must be 
carefully followed ; the butter must be 
hot when you put in the potatoes ; the 
whole must be packed firmly down so 
that it will not break when turning out. 

Potatoes au Qratin 

To each four good sized cold pota- 
toes chopped fine allow a pint of cream 
sauce, to which you have added four 
tablespoonfuls of grated cheese ; mix the 



so LEFT OVERS 

potatoes with the sauce, turn them into 
a baking dish and brown in a quick oven. 



Scalloped Potatoes 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into dice ; to 
each pint allow a half pint of cream 
sauce. Put a layer of the sauce in the 
bottom of a baking dish, put in the pota- 
toes, season with salt and pepper, cover 
with another layer of cream sauce, dust 
the top with bread crumbs, dot here and 
there little bits of butter, and bake in a 
moderate oven until a golden brown. 

Potatoes in Hilk 

Cold boiled potatoes may be cut into 
slices and cooked in milk in a double 
boiler until the whole is thoroughly 
heated ; season with salt and pepper and 
serve. 

Sweet Potatoes 

Cold boiled or roasted sweet potatoes 
may be mashed while warm, seasoned 
with salt, pepper and butter and formed 
at once into croquettes ; dip and fry the 
same as white potato croquettes. 



COLD BOILED POTATOES Si 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into small 
dice ; to each pint allow a tablespoonful 
of butter ; put the butter in an ordinary- 
saute pan, melt it, add a tablespoonful of 
chopped onion, shake until the onion is 
golden brown ; throw in the potatoes, 
shake or toss over a hot fire until each 
piece is slightly browned; sprinkle lightly 
with a half teaspoonful of salt, a table- 
spoonful of parsley, and a dash of pepper ; 
dish and serve. 

Broiled Potatoes 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into thin 
slices lengthwise ; dip each slice in a lit- 
tle melted butter, dust it with salt and 
pepper, and broil it over a clear fire until 
a golden brown. For dyspeptics it is 
better to broil the potato first and add 
the butter after, as the heating of the 
butter renders it indigestible. Sweet 
potatoes may be broiled after this same 
rule, and would be less greasy than when 
fried. 



52 LEFT OILERS 



CHEESE 

The shells of Edam, or pine-apple 
cheese, after all the available cheese has 
been scooped out, will be used as a bak- 
ing dish for stewed spaghetti or maca- 
roni or rice. If care is taken, one shell 
may be used for three or four bakings. 
Boil the macaroni in plain water until 
tender; then drain, cut it into small 
pieces and add it to cream sauce. Pour 
this into the cheese shell, stand the shell 
on a piece of oiled paper in a baking pan 
and run into a moderate oven for fifteen 
or twenty minutes. Lift the shell care- 
fully, put it on to a heated dish, and send 
at once to the table. After the macaroni 
has been taken out, the shell will be 
cleaned and put aside in a cold place for 
the next baking. There is just enough 
cheese imparted by the toasting of this 
shell to give an agreeable flavor to the 
macaroni. Plain boiled rice may be 
heaped into the shells and steamed, or 
baked in the oven for a few moments. 

Any scraps or bits of common cheese, 
when too hard and dry to serve on the 
table should be grated, put into ajar and 



CHEESE 53 

put aside for cheese balls to serve with 
lettuce, cheese souffle, for baked maca- 
roni, or spaghetti, or for croquettes, 
cheese sauce, or Duchess soup. 

Cheese Souffle 

Put one cup of stale bread crumbs 
with a gill of milk over the fire for just a 
moment ; take from the fire, add the 
yolks of three eggs, six tablespoonfuls of 
grated cheese, a half teaspoonful of salt 
and a dash of red pepper ; stir in the well- 
beaten whites of the eggs ; put into indi- 
vidual baking dishes ; bake in a quick 
oven about eight minutes and send at 
once to the table. 

Cheese Balls 

Grate or chop sufficient common 
cheese to make a half pint ; add to it one 
pint of stale bread crumbs, a half tea- 
spoonful of salt, a dash of red pepper 
and the whites of two eggs slightly 
beaten. Form these into small balls the 
size of an English walnut ; dip in &gg 
and then in bread crumbs and fry in 
smoking hot fat. These may also be 
made into small cylinder-shaped cro- 
quettes, and served with cream sauce. 



5^ LEFT OFERS 

Duchess Soup 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and 
a sliced onion in a saucepan ; cook until 
the onion is soft and yellow; add to this 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, mix, and 
then add one quart of milk, a level tea- 
spoonful of salt and a palatable season- 
ing of red pepper. Add six tablespoon- 
fuls of grated cheese; stir in a double 
boiler until it is smoking hot; press 
through a fine sieve ; reheat and send at 
once to the table. 

Cheese Pudding 

Toast slices of stale bread until a 
golden brown and crisp to the centre. 
This is best done in the oven. Put a 
layer of this toasted bread in the bottom 
of a baking dish ; put over a quarter of 
a cup of grated or chopped cheese, 
sprinkle with salt and red pepper ; then 
another layer of bread, another of cheese 
and the last of bread. Pour over suffi- 
cient milk to moisten the bread; bake 
in a quick oven fifteen minutes, and serve 
at once. 



SAUCES 55 



SAUCES 

All meat sauces are made after the 
same rule, changing the liquids to give 
varieties ; for instance, one tablespoon- 
ful of butter (which means an ounce), 
and one tablespoonful of flour (a half 
ounce) are always allowed to each half 
pint of liquid. The butter and flour are 
rubbed together (better without heating), 
then the hquid added, cold or warm, the 
whole stirred over the fire until boiling. 
A half teaspoonful of salt and an eighth 
of a teaspoonful of pepper is the proper 
amount of seasoning. 

White Sauce 

If you wish to make a white sauce, 
use one tablespoonful of butter, one 
tablespoonful of flour and a half pint of 
milk. Called also milk or cream sauce. 



Tomato Sauce 

Tomato sauce will have the same 
proportions of butter and flour and a 
half pint of strained tomatoes. 



56 LEFT OVERS 

Sauce Bechamel 

For sauce Bechamel, fill the cup half 
full of stock, then the remaining half 
with milk, giving again the half pint of 
liquid, and usual quantity of butter and 
flour. 

English Drawn Butter 

For English drawn butter, use a 
tablespoonful of butter, a tablespoonful 
of flour, and a half pint of water. We 
usually have the water boiling, and add 
it gradually to the butter and flour, 
stirring rapidly. As soon as it reaches 
boiling point, take from the fire and 
add carefully another tablespoonful of 
butter. This may be converted into a 
plain 

Sauce Hollandaise 

by adding with the last tablespoonful 
of butter, the yolks of two eggs, the 
juice of half a lemon, a teaspoonful of 
onion juice and a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley. 

Sauce Supreme 

This is one of the nicest of all sauces 
to use with warmed-over chicken, duck 



SAUCES 57 

or turkey. Rub together a tablespoon- 
ful of butter and one of flour, then add 
gradually a half pint of chicken stock ; 
stir constantly until boiling, take from 
the fire, add the yolks of two eggs, strain 
through a fine sieve, add the seasoning, 
and serve immediately. 

Sauces containing the yolks of 
uncooked eggs cannot be reboiled after 
the eggs are added. 

Brown Sauce 

This is made by rubbing butter and 
flour together in the above proportions, 
then adding a half pint of stock ; stir until 
boiling, add a teaspoonful of browning 
or kitchen bouquet and the usual sea- 
soning of salt and pepper. To change 
the character of this sauce add garlic, 
onion, Worcestershire sauce, mushroom 
catsup, etc. 

Brown Tomato Sauce 

An exceedingly nice sauce for Ham- 
burg steaks. After you have taken 
the steaks from the pan, add a table- 
spoonful of butter and one of flour ; mix. 
Fill your measuring cup half full of 



58 LEFT OVERS 

strained tomatoes, the remaining half 
with stock, making a half pint ; add this 
to the butter and flour, stir until boiling, 
add a seasoning of salt and pepper and 
pour over the steaks. 

Roasted Beef Qravy 

Roasted beef gravy, which really 
should be a sauce, is improved by adding 
a little tomato to the stock before adding 
it to the fat and flour. In roasting 
meats, we do not use butter for the 
sauce; there is always sufficient fat in 
the bottom of the pan. Pour from the 
pan all but one or two tablespoonfuls of 
fat (the amount required) and add to 
that the flour. A rounding tablespoon- 
ful of butter to which we refer weighs an 
ounce ; of liquid fat, as in the pan, you 
must allow two even tablespoonfuls to the 
ounce ; so, if you are going to make a 
half pint of sauce take out all but two 
tablespoonfuls of fat ; add one table- 
spoonful of flour and then the half pint 
of water or stock. 

Browning 

Plain burned sugar (caramel) may be 
used to color soups and sauces, thus 



SAUCES 59 

saving the trouble of browning the flour 
or butter. It is also used as a flavoring for 
sweets. Put one cup of sugar, dry, into 
an iron saucepan. Stand it over a hot 
fire, and stir continually until it is reduced 
to a dark brown liquid. When it begins 
to burn and smoke, add hastily a cup of 
boiling water, stir and cook until a thin 
syrup-like mixture is formed. It must 
not be too thick. Bottle, and it is ready 
for use, and will keep any length of time. 

Kitchen Bouquet 

Add one chopped onion and a tea- 
spoonful of celeiy seed to one cup of dry 
sugar, and then proceed as for ordinary 
browning. Strain and bottle. A very 
good mixture under this name can be 
purchased at the grocers. 

Mushroom Sauce 

Where just a few mushrooms are left 
over, either fresh or canned, they may 
be chopped fine and added to a brown 
sauce and served with steak or beef; or 
they may be chopped fine and added to 
a cream sauce and served with chicken 
or sweetbreads. 



6o LEFT OILERS 

Cold rieat Sauces 

It is the fashion when one is serving • 
cold meat to pass with it some condi- 
ment like Worcestershire sauce, mush- 
room, walnut or tomato catsup. Of 
course, these used in any great quantity 
are more or less injurious. A number 
of little left overs in the house may be 
used to take their place, adding zest to 
the meat, and are more economical and 
more wholesome. 

Chopped Tomato 5auce 

Peel a good-sized tomato, cut it into 
halves and press out the seeds ; chop the 
flesh of the tomato fine, add a quar- 
ter of a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of 
pepper, or, if you have it, a little sweet 
pepper chopped fine ; you may add also 
a little celery chopped very fine, or cel- 
ery seed, and a teaspoonful of onion 
juice ; rub your spoon with a clove of 
garlic, and mix the ingredients thor- 
oughly ; add a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice and dish. Pass and use as ordinary 
catsup. 



SAUCES 61 

Grated Cucumber Sauce 

Grate three or four large cucumbers; 
drain them on a sieve ; to this drained 
pulp add a half teaspoonful of salt, a dash 
of red pepper, a teaspoonful of onion 
juice, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and 
then stir in carefully two or three table- 
spoonfuls of very thick cream ; if you 
can whip the cream a little first, so much 
the better. Cream may also be added 
to the tomato. 

Chopped Celery Sauce 

Chop fine sufficient celery to make a 
half pint ; season it with a quarter of a 
teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of onion 
juice, a dash of pepper. Rub the spoon 
with garlic, mix thoroughly, stir into it 
the yolk of an ftgg that has been beaten 
light with two tablespoonfuls of cream ; 
add a few drops of lemon juice or tar- 
ragon vinegar and serve. 

Cream Horseradish Sauce 

This is one of the most delightful 
sauces to serve with left-over meats, 
especially beef Press from the vinegar 
four tablespoonfuls of horseradish, add a 
quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, and work 



62 LEFT OVERS 

in the yolk of an egg. Whip six table- 
spoonfuls of cream to a stiff froth, stir it 
gradually into the horseradish and dish 
at once. 

Pudding Sauces 

The simple method of making a pud- 
ding sauce is to add to a half cup of sugar, 
a tablespoonful of flour ; mix thoroughly, 
and then add hastily a half pint of boil- 
ing water ; boil for a moment and pour 
while hot into one well-beaten ^gg, beat- 
ing all the while. This may now be 
seasoned with any flavoring, as orange, 
lemon or vanilla. 

To change the character of this 
sauce, a tablespoonful of butter may be 
added. Where butter enters largely into 
the composition of a pudding sauce, it is 
better that it should be beaten to a 
cream, the sugar added gradually, then 
the Qgg and last the liquor. Heat it 
over a double boiler just at serving time, 
or the froth will float on the surface 
and the liquid be rather dense at the 
bottom. 

Melted sugar with lemon juice and a 
little water is called sugar sauce. 



SALADS 63 



SALADS 



There comes a time during the week, 
even in careful housekeeping when there 
is an accumulation of little things, a few 
olives, a slice or two of beet, perhaps 
two or three pieces of cooked carrot, a 
cold potato, a tiny little bit of cold fish, 
or cold meats, and not more than a table- 
spoonful or two of aspic jelly ; these may 
all be utilized in a 



Russian Salad 

Chop or cut carefully the vegetables ; 
mix together, add two or three table- 
spoonfuls of toasted pifion nuts, and the 
meat and fish ; dish on lettuce leaves, or, 
if you have tomatoes, peel and take out 
the centres, and fill the salad into the 
tomatoes. Serve with French or mayon- 
naise dressing; garnish with blocks of 
aspic jelly. 



64 LEFT OVERS 



CEREALS 



Cold boiled rice left over may be 
mixed with a small quantity of meat, 
and used for stuffing tomatoes or Qgg 
plant ; or it may be re-heated or made 
into pudding, or added to the muffins for 
lunch, or added to the corn bread. 

A cup of oat meal or cracked wheat 
or wheatlet may also be added to the 
muffins or ordinary yeast or corn 
breads. These little additions increase 
the food value, make the mixture lighter, 
and save waste. 

Southern Rice Bread 

Separate two eggs, beat the yolks 
until light, and add one cup (a half pint) 
of milk ; add a tablespoonful of melted 
butter, a half teaspoonful of salt, and 
one and a half cups of corn meal ; beat 
thoroughly, and stir in one cup of cold 
boiled rice ; add a teaspoonful of baking 
powder ; beat for two or three minutes ; 
stir in the wxll-beaten whites of the eggs, 
and bake in a thin sheet in an ordinary 
baking pan. 



CEREALS 65 

Rice Muffins 

Separate two eggs ; add to the yolks 
one cup of milk and a cup and a half of 
white flour; beat thoroughly, add a half 
teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of 
baking powder and one cup of cold boiled 
rice; stir in the well-beaten whites, and 
bake in gem pans in a quick oven twenty 
minutes. 

Rice Croquettes 

To make cold boiled rice into cro- 
quettes, the rice must be re-heated in a 
double boiler with a gill of milk and 
the yolk of an Q:gg to each cup ; you may 
season with sugar and lemon or salt and 
pepper, and serve as a vegetable. Form 
into cylinder-shaped croquettes ; dip in 
egg and bread crumbs, and fry in smok- 
ing hot fat. 

Simple Rice Pudding 

Put into a double boiler one quart of 
milk ; allow it to cook for thirty min- 
utes ; then add two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, a grating of nutmeg, and one cup 
of cold boiled rice; turn this into a baking 
pan, and bake in a quick oven thirty min- 
utes. Serve cold. Raisins may be added 
when it is put into the baking pan. 



66 LEFT OILERS 

Lemon Rice 

Into one cup of cold boiled rice stir 
one pint of milk ; beat the yolks of three 
eggs with a half cup of sugar together 
until light ; add to them the rice and 
milk ; add the grated yellow rind and 
the juice of one lemon. Turn this into 
a baking pan; bake in a moderately 
quick oven twenty to thirty minutes. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth, add three tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar, and beat again. Heap these 
over the pudding, dust thickly with pow- 
dered sugar ; return to the oven to slowly 
brown ; serve cold. 

Paradise Pudding 

Pare, core and grate three apples. 
Separate three eggs ; add to the yolks 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar ; beat until 
light ; add a grating of nutmeg and a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice ; stir in a half 
cup of cold boiled rice ; mix with this 
quickly the apples, and beat well ; add a 
half cup of milk ; turn into a baking dish, 
and bake for thirty minutes. Make a 
meringue as in preceding recipe, from the 
whites of the eggs ; heap it over the top, 



CEREALS 67 

and brown. This pudding may be served 
warm or cold. 



Compote of Pineapple 

Throw a pint of boiUng water over 
one cup of cold boiled rice ; stir for a 
moment ; drain, and stand at the oven 
door. Have ready, picked apart, one 
small pineapple ; add to it a half cup of 
sugar ; heat quickly, stirring constantly. 
Arrange the rice in the centre of a round 
dish, making it into a mound, flat on 
top ; heap the pineapple neatly on this ; 
pour over the syrup, and send at once 
to the table. Small quantities of different 
kinds of fruits that have been left over 
may be blended and used in this way. 

Monday Pudding 

Cut bits of whole wheat bread into 
dice. Use a half cup of any fruit that 
may have been left over, prunes, raisins, 
chopped dates or candied fruit. Grease 
an ordinary melon mold ; put a layer of 
the bread in the bottom, then a layer of 
the fruit, and so continue until you have 
the mold filled. Beat three eggs, without 
separating, with four tablespoonfuls of 



68 LEFT OVERS 

sugar ; add a pint of milk ; pour this care- 
fully over the bread ; let it stand for ten 
minutes ; then put the lid on the mold, 
and steam or boil continuously for one 
hour. Serve with lemon or orange sauce. 

Oat Meal fluff ins 

The ordinary muffin recipes, which are 
always about alike, no matter what flour 
is used, may have added to them a cup of 
well cooked oat meal ; for instance, sepa- 
rate two eggs as for rice muffins ; add to 
the yolks a cup of milk ; then add one and 
a half cups of whole wheat flour; beat 
thoroughly ; add a teaspoonful of baking 
powder ; beat again ; add one cup of 
well cooked oat meal, or you may sub- 
stitute wheatlet or any of the breakfast 
cereals ; fold in the whites of the eggs, 
and bake in gem pans in a quick oven 
twenty to thirty minutes. 

Sandwiches 

Little bits of fruit, crisp pieces of 
celery, cold meats of all kinds, may be 
chopped, properly seasoned, and used for 
making fruit, vegetable and meat sand- 
wiches. 



VEGETABLES 69 



VEGETABLES 

Stringf beans, cauliflower, carrots, 
beets, peas and even a cold boiled potato 
may all be cut into neat pieces, mixed 
together, and served on lettuce leaves, 
dressed with French dressing as a salad. 
One cold boiled beet may be used as a 
garnish for a potato salad. String beans, 
if you have sufficient quantity, may be 
served alone as a salad. 

Stuffed Egg Plant 

Throw a good-sized Qgg plant into a 
kettle of boiling water ; boil ten minutes ; 
when cold cut into halves and with a 
blunt knife scoop out the centre. Chop 
this scooped-out portion fine, mix with 
it an equal quantity of finely-chopped 
uncooked meat, add a grated onion, a 
clove of garlic mashed, a teaspoonful of 
salt, a little chopped parsley, if you have 
it, and a dash of pepper. Fill this into 
the tgg plant shells, stand them in a 
baking pan, add a cup of stock and a 
tablespoonful of butter, bake slowly one 
hour, basting every ten minutes. 



70 LEFT OVERS 

Cucumbers 

Raw cucumbers are easily wilted, and 
are then unfit for serving. Soak them in 
pure cold, unsalted water until serving 
time. Pass French dressing in a separate 
dish. In this way the " left-overs " may 
be placed in the refrigerator and used 
next day as an addition to the dinner 
salad. 

Left-Over Tomatoes 

A half cup of stewed tomatoes may be 
used with stock for brown tomato sauce, 
or for making a small dish of scalloped 
tomatoes, helping out at lunch when 
perhaps the family is less in number. 
The Italians boil down this half cup of 
tomatoes until it has the consistency of 
dough ; then press through a sieve, add 
a little salt, pack down into a jelly tum- 
bler and stand in the refrigerator to use 
as flavoring. A tablespoonful in a soup, 
or in an ordinary sauce, or mixed with 
the water for baked beans, or added to 
the stock sauce for spaghetti or maca- 
roni, adds greatly to the flavor as well 
as appearance. 



FRUITS 71 



FRUITS 



Small quantities of fruit that are not 
sufficiently sightly to put again on the 
table may be put aside and made into 
fruit pot-pie. All sorts of fruits may be 
blended. Put them into a saucepan, 
and to each pint of this fruit allow one 
quart of water and a palatable seasoning 
of sugar, and you may flavor it with a 
little grated lemon or orange rind ; 
bring to boiling point. During this 
time put one pint of flour into a bowl, 
add a half teaspoonful of salt and a tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Beat one 
egg until light, add to it a half cup of 
milk, then add this to the flour ; there 
should be just enough to moisten and 
make a dough. Take this out on the 
board, knead lightly, roll out and cut 
into biscuits. Put these biscuits over 
the top of the fruit ; cover the kettle 
and cook slowly for fifteen minutes ; do 
not lift the lid during the cooking. 
Serve hot with plain milk or cream, or 
with a hard sauce made from sugar and 
butter. 



12 LEFT OVERS 

Fruit Souffle 

Beat the whites of six eggs until light, 
but not dry ; add three tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar; mix quickly; line the 
bottom of the baking dish with any sort 
of fruit, such as chopped dates or figs, or 
left-over candied fruits or preserves. 
Heap over the whites of the eggs, dust 
thickly with powdered sugar, and bake 
in a hot oven for five minutes. Serve 
immediately. To give variety, where 
stale biscuits or bread, or sponge cake 
are left over, line the bottom of the dish 
with the stale bits ; pour over enough 
milk to moisten, put in a layer of fruit 
and the whites of the eggs as above. 

Plain White Cake 

Beat a quarter of a cup of butter to 
a cream ; add gradually one and a half 
cups of sugar. Sift two cups of flour 
with a teaspoonful of baking powder; 
measure a half pint of water; add a little 
water and a little flour, and so continue 
until the ingredients are used ; beat thor- 
oughly, then stir in the well-beaten whites 
of five eggs. Bake in a loaf or layers. 
Put layers together with chopped fruit, 
soft custard, or a soft icing. 



MISCELLANEOUS 73 

Chicken Muffin Cases 

Boil together a half pint of water 
and two tablespoonfuls of butter, add 
hastily a half pint of sifted flour, stir 
over fire until a smooth dough is formed. 
Take from the fire and when cool, add 
one unbeaten whole Qgg ; beat, add 
another and so continue until four eggs 
have been added. Bake in gem pans 
until light and hollow, about a half hour. 
This quantity will make twelve. Cut a 
round from the top and fill the muffin 
with any creamed mixture. 

To Make Cocoariut Milk 

Cover one quart of grated cocoanut 
with one pint of boiling water. Stir 
and mash ; strain and press. The milk 
thus produced may be used for curries. 
Throw av/ay the pulp. 



74 



INDEX 



INDEX 



Barbecue of Cold Beef 
Beauregard Eggs . 
Bechamel Sauce 
Beef— Cooked 

Barbecue of . 

Bresleau 

Croquettes 

Fritters 

Gobbits 

Hash, No. 2 

Minced on Toast 

Potato Dumplings 

Ragout . 

Salt . 

Steak Pudding 
Beef— Uncooked . 

Brown Stew . 

Cannelon . 

Hamburg Steaks 

Kibbee 

Timbale 
Bobotee 
Boudins . 
Bread .... 

and Butter Custard 

Croquettes . . . . . 

Little Puddings a la Grand Belle 

Muffins 

Southern Rice 

Bresleau, Beef 

Broiled Potatoes .... 
Browning 



PAGE 

21 

45 
. 56 
16 
21 
16 

. 17 
20 

19 
22 
20 
18 

, 16 
21 

, 18 
12 

, 14 
14 
12 
12 

. 15 
24 

. 25 
40 

. 40 
41 

. 41 
42 

• 64 
16 

. 51 
58 



INDEX 



75 



Brown Sauce . 

Brown Stew 

Brown Tomato Sauce 

Cake, Plain White 

Cannelon 

Casserole 

Cereals . 

Compote of Pineapple 
Lemon Rice 
Monday Pudding . 
Oat Meal Muffins 
Paradise Pudding . 
Rice Croquettes . 
Rice Muffins . 
Sandwiches 
Simple Rice Pudding 
Southern Rice Bread 
Cheese .... 
Balls . 
Duchess Soup 
Pudding 
Souffle 
Chicken— Cooked . 
Casserole 
Cutlets . 
Supreme 

Creamed Hash on 
Indian Hash 
Mock Terrapin, or a la Newbur 
Chicken— Uncooked 

Deviled Chicken Legs 
English Chicken Balls 
Timbale . 
Chicken Muffin Cases . 
Chopped Celery Sauce . 

Tomato Sauce 
Cocoanut Milk, To make 



Toast 



76 



INDEX 



Cold Boiled Potatoes 
Broiled 

Hashed Brown 
Lyonnaise . 
au Gratin 
in Milk 
Scalloped 
Sweet Potatoes 
Cold Meat Sauces . 
Compote of Pineapple 
Cream Horseradish Sauce 
Creamed Hash on Toast 
Croquettes, Beef 
Bread 
Egg . 
Potato 
Rice 
Cucumbers . 
Curry Balls 
Curry of Mutton 
Custard, Bread and Butter 

Potato . 
Cutlets, Chicken . 
Deviled Chicken Legs 
Duchess Soup 
Duck Bordelaise . 
Dumplings, Potato . 
Egg Plant, Stuffed 
Eggs 

Beauregard . 
Croquettes 
Whites of . 
English Cheese Balls 
English Drawn Butter 
Fritters, Beef . 
Fruits . 

Souffle . 



INDEX 



77 



lie 



Game ... 
Gobbits 

Grated Cucumber Sauce 
Hamburg Steaks 
Hash, Creamed on Toast 
Indian 
No, 2 . 
Hashed Brown Potatoes 
Hollandaise Sauce 
Indian Hash 

Kibbee .... 
Kitchen Bouquet . 
Klopps .... 
Left-Over Tomatoes 
Lemon Rice . 
Little Puddings a la Grand B 
Lyonnaise Potatoes 

Meat 

Minced Beef on Toast 

Mock Terrapin, or a la Nevvburg 

Monday Pudding , 

Muffins, Bread 

Oat Meai . 

Rice 
Mushroom Sauce 
Mutton— Cooked . 

Bobotee 

Boudins 

Curry of . 

Klopps . 

Pilau 

Salad 

with Anchovy 
Mutton— Uncooked 

Curry Balls 
Oat Meal Muffins 
Paradise Pudding . 



78 



INDEX 



Pilau of Mutton 
Plain White Cake 

Potatoes 

Croquettes 
Custards . 
Puff . . . 
Roses for Garnishing 
Stuffed . 
Potato Dumplings . 
Puddings, a la Grand Belle . 
Beef Steak 
Cheese 
Monday . 
Paradise 
Simple Rice . 
Pudding Sauces . . 
Ragout of Beef 
Rice Bread, Southern . 
Croquettes 
Muffins 

Pudding, Simple 
Roasted Beef Gravy . 
Roses for Garnishing, Potato . 
Russian Salad 

Salads 

Mutton 
Russian 
Salt Beef .... 
Sandwiches . . . . 
Sauces .... 

Bechamel 
Browning 

Brown . . . . 
Brown Tomato 
Chopped Celery . 
Chopped Tomato 
Cold Meat . 



INDEX 



79 



Sauces, Cream Horseradish 

English Drawn Butter 

Grated Cucumber 

Hollandaise . 

Kitchen Bouquet 

Mushroom 

Pudding 

Roasted Beef Gravy 

Supreme 

Tomato . 

White 
Scalloped Potatoes 
Simple Rice Pudding 
Souffle, Fruit 

Cheese 
Soup, Duchess 
Southern Rice Bread 
Stock . 
Stuffed Egg Plant . 

Potatoes . 
Supreme Sauce 
Sweet Potatoes 
Timbale of Chicken 
Timbale of Beef . 
Tomato Sauce 
Tomatoes, Left-Over 
Vegetables 

Cucumbers 
Left-Over Tomatoes 
Stuffed Egg Plant 
White Sauce .... 
Whites of Eggs . 



PAGB 

6i 

56 
61 
56 

59 
59 
62 

58 
56 
55 
55 
50 
65 
72 

53 
54 
64 
7 
69 
46 
56 
50 
29 
15 
55 
70 
69 
70 
70 
69 
55 
44 



List of Household Books 

Published by 
Arnold & Company 



Mrs.Rorers Cook Book 

A Manual of Home Economies. By 
Mrs. S. T. Rorer, Principal of the Phila- 
delphia Cooking School, author of Canning 
and Preserving, Hot Weather Dishes, etc. 
i2mo, nearly 600 pages, with portrait of 
the author and elaborate index ; water- proof 
and grease-proof covers, ^1.75. 

This is an eminently practical 
book. It embodies the experience 
and study of the author in all the 
years that she has been teaching 
and lecturing so, successfully before 
the public. The book has become 
as famous as the author. It is a 
standard of excellence, in that it 
is full of the brightest things in 
cookery ; the recipes are absolutely 
reliable, and the general instruc- 
tions to housekeepers of the most 
helpful and necessary character. 



Canning and Preserving 

By Mrs. S. T. Rorer, author of Mrs. 
Rorer's Cook Book, Hot Weather Dishes, 
etc. i2mo., with index, cloth covers, 
75 cents; paper covers, 40 cents. 

In this volume Mrs. Rorer dis- 
cusses at greater length than is 
allowed in the Timits of her work 
on cooking in general, the canning 
and preserving of fruits and vege- 
tables, with the kindred subjects 
of marmalades, butters, fruit jellies 
and syrups, drying and pickling. 
As in her Cook Book, the recipes 
are clearly and simply given, 
while an exhaustive index affords 
easy reference to every subject. 

"A useful little volume for the 
preserving season. Mrs. Rorer's 
exhaustive information on the sub- 
jects of preserves, pickles, jellies, 
syrups, and canned goods gener- 
ally, is here placed at the service 
of the public in a cheap and 
convenient form . ' ' — Philadelphia 
Inquirer. 



Hot Weather Dishes 

By Mrs. S. T. Rorer, author of Mrs. 
Rorer's Cook Book, Canning and Preserv- 
ing, etc. i2mo., with index, cloth covers, 
75 cents; paper covers, 40 cents. 

Its name tells the whole story. 
It is the only book of the kind. 
Hot weather seems to suspend the 
inventive faculty of even the best 
housekeepers, and at a season 
when the appetite needs every 
help and encouragement this book 
will be found of the greatest use. 
Full of suggestions for tempting 
and dainty dishes, with recipes 
for presenting the substantials in 
palatable forms. Contains a com- 
plete index to all the recipes. 

" A seasonable and appetizing 
book, entitled Hot Weather 
Dishes, by Mrs. Rorer, has just 
been issued. It contains table 
recipes for summer use. Salads, 
vegetables, dishes of hot, or pre- 
viously prepared meats, piquant 
sauces, fruit omelets and summer 
desserts are particularly attract- 
ive." — Philadelphia Ledger, 



Home Candy Making 

By Mrs. S. T. Rorer, author of Mrs. 
Rorer's Cook Book, Canning and Preserv- 
ing, etc. i2mo, with index, cloth covers, 
75 cents; paper covers, 40 cents. 

A veritable book of sweets, 
full of choice recipes, with com- 
plete instructions for making the 
many delicacies that delight both 
young and old. It is the result 
of careful practice in teaching 
beginners how to make attractive, 
wholesome and palatable varieties 
of home-made candies. As a rule, 
these are made from uncooked 
sugar and white of egg, and while 
they may be palatable to some 
persons, to the connoisseur they 
are coarse and heavy. The excel- 
lency of the recipes consists in 
their simplicity and faithfulness to 
minutiae. 

" The book is very simple in 
its explanations, very minute and 
full, and, all in all, by far the best 
working manual for home use of 
which we have any knowledge." — 
The Indt'pe7tdent. 



N'ew Salads 

For Dinners, Luncheons, Suppers and 
Receptions. With a group of Odd Salads 
and some Ceylon Salads. By Mrs. S. T. 
RoRER, author of Mrs. Rorer's Cook Book, 
Canning and Preserving, etc. Long i6mo, 
with index; bound in salad-green cloth, 

50 cents. 

In this book are gathered 
together a choice lot of original 
recipes for the proper making 
and serving of this important 
dish. The salad is not alone for 
the epicure, nor is it to be looked 
upon merely as a tasty bit to 
enliven a meal. It should form 
a part of the daily cuisine in 
every family. Judging from the 
statements of the author, not 
enough attention is paid to this 
matter by the average house- 
keeper. Mrs. Rorer in her 
introduction says: 

" A salad made from a suc- 
culent green vegetable and French 
dressing, should be seen on the 
dinner table in every well-reg- 
ulated household three hundred 
and sixty- five times a year. 



Six Little Cooke?y Books 

By Mrs. S. T. Rorer. A set of charming 
and beautiful volumes, designed to meet the 
special wants of a numerous class of house- 
keepers who are given to entertaining, and 
are so often at loss to know what and how 
to prepare for their guests. 24mo, each 
voknne bound in a separate color of beautiful 
linen cloth, stamped in gold ; sold separ- 
ately; 25 cents per volume. 

During her extensive lecturing 
tours, Mrs. Rorer has received 
many requests from her friends 
and admirers to issue a set of 
books touching on the topics 
contained in the following vol- 
umes. Here is the first instalment ; 
more will follow on other subjects. 
The recipes given in each of these 
dainty little books are choice and 
rare, some of them coming from old 
family records. In her usual clear 
and concise style, Mrs. Rorer 
gives full directions as to the suc- 
cessful carrying out of each 
formula. They will be found a 
useful addition to the cookery lor^ 



of any housewife, and enable her 
to excel in many dainty repasts 
not possible without some such aid. 

Colonial Recipes 

How to Use a Chafing Dish 

Fifteen New Ways for Oysters 

Twenty ^uick Soups 

Sandwiches 

Dainties 



It is hard to conceive a more 
delectable feast of good things 
than is presented in the pages 
of these delightful books. Well 
printed from clear and distinct 
type, tastefully bound, compact in 
size, they appeal very forcibly to 
the artistic sense. When, in 
addition, we consider the excel- 
lent character of the contents, 
their freshness and pleasing 
variety, the reader is forced to 
admit that cookery has its charms. 



Cakesy Cake Decorations 
and Desserts 

A Manual for Housewives. Simple and 
up to date. By Charles H. King. 
i2mo., illustrated by engravings of 
numerous decorated pieces, with a sil- 
houette chart for the guidance of the 
learner ; bound in cloth, stamped, i^i-SO. 

Mrs. Rorer says of this book : 

*' It has every virtue necessary 
for a home manual, is simple, 
plain and economical. The plates, 
so well described, will enable 
even an inexperienced person 
after a few trials to ice and 
decorate a cake, equal to an 
expert. Mr. King has covered 
the entire field of cake-baking, 
cake-decorating, sugar-boiling and 
sugar-spinning, with recipes for 
fine candies. The book con- 
tains twenty-one plates and many 
patterns. I know of no other 
book which covers this field, and 
advise those doing fancy work 
to secure its help." 



Household Accounts 

A simple method of recording the daily 
expenses of the family. Printed and 
ruled in excellent form, and bound in 
manilla boards, 25 cents. 

This is perhaps the best book 
of the kind ever introduced. With 
it there is an end to disputes 
with the butcher or groceryman on 
settling day. The book contains 
ruled pages, systematically and 
simply divided into spaces in 
which are kept the purchases for 
each day of milk, butter, eggs, 
meat, groceries, vegetables, etc. 
The daily expenses total up for 
the months, and the months for 
the year. There are other forms 
for recording expenses of help, 
light, heat and general house- 
hold expenditures in table and 
bed linens, china and kitchen 
utensils, etc. 

Mrs. Rorer says it is what 
every housekeeper ought to have. 
It is not only a satisfactory method 
of knowing the cost of maintain- 
ing the household, but it leads to 
a better economy in expenditure. 



!. t 






S^-- 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




III Hill Hill mil iiiii I 
014 488 932 





rs. S/ll Rore 



D 



oN?. Vo a 4x-5=^ 




£. 



3 



'V 



\' 



v\ 



^ 



,1 "' 



TO THE READER. 

K ^ffoJ This book is not in 
^^^ good condition. Please 
use it carefully. 

B.P.L. FORM NO. 403 ; 7 .6 .2G . 20M. 



B QNOV\ 



iwOCT 24 



M RMAY27 




^^'8 Cii '"> 






V/. B.CLARKE cTT^ 
/ark St.Church, Boston 



■^^^ 



LEFT OVERS 



i^-tii y gt ■ vrmi -^ ijk^.f.:. 



Copyright 1898 by 
SARAH TYSON RORER 



LEFT OVERS 

How to transform them 
into palatable and whole- 
some dishes* With many 
new and valuable recipes 



By MRS S T RORER 

^Director of 7'hiladetphia. Cooking School 
3.nd Author of Mrs ^rer's Cook ^ook 
Ne<TV S3.ta.ds, Canning a.nd T'reser<ving 
and 'Various other <works on Cookery 



Published d Philadelphia By 
ARNOLD AND COMPANY 



} J J } J ) 5 



1 



Printed at the Sign of the Ivy J 

L€a.f in PhiUdelphii by George I 

H B'jchajmn £Lnd Company 1 








ISE forethought, which means 
economy, stands as the first 
of domestic duties. Poverty 
in no way affects skill in the 
preparation of food. The 
object of cooking is to draw . 
out the proper flavor of each individual / 
ingredient used in the preparation of a/ 
dish, and render it more easy of digestion.! 
Admirable flavorings are given by the! 
little left overs of vegetables that too often' 
find their way into the garbage bucket. 
Economical marketing does not mean 
the purchase of inferior articles at a 
cheap price, but of a small quantity of 
the best materials found in the market ; 
these materials to be wisely and econom- 
ically used. Small quantity and no waste, 
just enough and not a piece too much, is 
a good rule to remember. In roasts and 
steaks, however, there will be, in spite of 
careful buying, bits left over, that, if 



economically used, may be converted 
into palatable, sightly and wholesome 
dishes for the next day's lunch or supper. 

Never purchase the so-called tender 
meat for stews, Hamburg steaks or 
soups ; nor should you purchase a round 
or shoulder steak for broiling, nor an 
old chicken for roasting. Select a fowl 
for a fricassee, a chicken for roasting, 
and a so-called spring chicken for broil- 
ing. Each has its own individual price 
and place. 

Save for stock, every bone, whether 
beef, mutton, poultry or game, as well as 
all the juices that are left in the meat 
carving dishes on the table, and the 
water in which meats are boiled and in 
which certain vegetables are boiled. Into 
this storehouse — for such a stock pot is 
— will go also the tough ends from the 
rib roasts, which would become tasteless 
and dry if roasted ; the bits that are taken 
from the French chops ; the bone that is 
left on the plate from the sirloin steak ; 
and every piece of the carcass left on the 
general carving plate of all sorts of 
game and poultry. After the meat has 
been taken from the roast, these bones 
will also be used. 



STOCK 

In all good cooking there is a con- 
stant demand for a half pint or a pint of 
stock. Brown sauce and tomato sauce, 
in fact, all meat sauces, are decidedly 
better made from stock than water, 
and as it comes to every household 
without the additional cost of a penny, 
there is no excuse whatever for being 
without it. Save the bones collected on 
Saturday, Sunday and Monday. Chicken 
and veal bones may be kept together ; 
beef, mutton and ham in another lot; 
one makes a white stock, the other 
brown. If the quantity is small put 
them all together. Crack the bones, 
put tliem in the bottom of a large 
soup kettle, cover with cold water, bring 
slowly to boiling point and skim. Push 
the kettle to the back part of the stove 
where the stock may simmer for at 
least three hours, then add an onion into 
which you have stuck twelve cloves, a 
bay leaf, a few celery tops, or a little cel- 
ery seed, and a carrot cut into slices ; 
simmer gently for another hour and 
strain. Tuesdays and Saturdays are the 



S LEFT OVERS 

best days for making stock, as they are 
the days on which you have long, con- 
tinuous fires, Tuesdays for ironing pur- 
poses, Saturdays for bread baking; in 
this way you will economize in coal, 
heat and time. 

In making tomato soup, to each 
pint of tomatoes add a pint of this stock 
instead of water ; or the stock may be 
simply heated, nicely seasoned and used 
as clear soup. By adding a little cooked 
rice or macaroni, you will have a rice or 
a macaroni soup. 

In cream soups, where stock takes 
the place of water, less milk gives equal, 
perhaps better, results. For instance, in 
cream of celery soup, cover the celery 
w ith cold stock instead of water, using a 
quart instead of a pint of water, and then 
use only a pint of milk, having in the end 
the same quantity of a much more tasty 
soup at a less cost. One soon learns 
that all made-over dishes are more savory 
where stock is used in place of water. 
If peas, beans or cabbage are being 
cooked, this water may be added to that 
in which beef or mutton has been boiled, 
the whole reduced carefully by rapid 
boiling, strained and put aside for use. 



MEAT 



MEAT 

As meat is the most costly and 
extravagant of all articles of food, it 
behooves the housewife to save all left 
overs and work them over into other 
dishes. The so-called inferior pieces — not 
inferior because they contain less nour- 
ishment, but inferior because the demand 
for such meat is less — should be used 
for all dishes that are chopped before 
cooking, as Hamburg steaks, curry balls, 
kibbee, or for stews, ragouts, pot roasts 
and various dishes where a sauce is used 
to hide the inferiority and ugliness of 
the dish. We have no occasion here to 
spend money on good looks. 

If one purchases meat for soup, the 
leg and shin are the better parts. This, 
however, is not necessary in the ordi- 
nary family, as there are always suffi- 
cient bones left over for daily stock. All 
meat left over from beef tea, tasteless as 
it is, may be nicely seasoned and made 
into curries or into pressed meat, giving 
again a nice dish for lunch or supper. 
Remember, that where the flavoring of 
the beef has been drawn out into the 



10 LEFT OVERS 

water, as in making beef tea, another 
decided flavor must be added to make 
the made-over dish palatable. For this 
reason, curries, pressed meats, served 
with either Worcestershire or tomato 
sauce, are chosen. 

Cold mutton may be made into pilau, 
hashed on toast with tomato sauce, 
hashed with caper sauce, made into 
escalloped mutton, barbacued mutton, 
casserole, or macaroni timbale ; all 
sightly dishes, quite handsome enough 
to place before the choicest guest. Spiced 
meats, as beef a la mode, may be served 
cold with cream horseradish sauce and 
aspic jelly. If warm, they will be made 
into ragouts, or some form of dish with 
a brown or tomato sauce. It is well to 
bear in mind that white meats will be 
served with white or yellow sauces ; 
dark meats with brown or tomato sauces. 
The coarse tops of the sirloin steak, the 
tough end of the rump steak, if broiled, 
cannot possibly be eaten, as the dry heat 
renders them difficult of mastication. 
Cut them off before the steak is broiled, 
and put them aside to use for Hamburg 
steaks, curry balls, timbale or cannelon, 
making a new and sightly dish from that 



MEAT II 

which would otherwise have been thrown 
away. 

If you use ham, and have had a piece 
boiled, after the even slices are taken off, 
chip the remaining tender pieces for friz- 
zled ham, making it as frizzled beef is 
made. The bits around the bone that 
cannot possibly be sliced, will be chopped 
and made into potted or deviled ham. 
Throw the bone into the stock pot. 

A meat chopper or grinder, which 
costs but a dollar and a half or two dol- 
lars, will save its price in the utility of 
these scraps in less than a month. 

The water in which you boil a leg of 
mutton, chicken, turkey or a fresh beef's 
tongue, or such vegetables as string 
beans, peas, rice, macaroni or barley, put 
aside and use in place of plain water to 
cover the bones for stock-making. The 
water in which cabbage is boiled should 
be saved alone and used the next day for 
a soup Crecy ; the flavor of the cabbage, 
with a carrot that has been slightly 
browned in butter, makes a delightful 
soup without the addition of meat. 



12 LEFT OVERS 



BEEF— UNCOOKED 

The uncooked tough bits or pieces 
of beef may be made into any of the 
following dishes : 

Kibbee 

Chop uncooked tough meat very fine ; 
put it twice through a grinder. To eacli 
pound, allow a tablespoonful of grated 
onion, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
a teaspoonful of salt, just a dash of pep- 
per, and a half cup of toasted pifion nuts. 
Form into balls about the size of an tgg, 
stand in a baking pan, add a half pint of 
strained tomatoes, a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, and bake slowly thirty minutes, bast- 
ing three or four times. If more than 
one pound of meat is used, all the in- 
gredients must be increased accordingly. 

Hamburg Steaks 

The genuine Hamburg steaks are 
rich in onion and very rich in fatty mat- 
ter, too much so to be wholesome ; so 
we will modify them, that they may be 
eaten even by dyspeptics or persons with 
weak digestion. Put twice through a 



BEEF— UNCOOKED 13 

meat chopper the tough ends of steaks 
or bits of the round. To each pound of 
this meat allow a half teaspoonful of 
celery seed, a teaspoonful of grated 
onion. Form into thick even cakes, 
being sure that the centre and sides are 
the same thickness. These may now be 
broiled over a clear fire, or under the 
gas lights in your gas broiler, or they 
may be dropped into a thoroughly heated 
iron pan. As soon as browned on one 
side, turn and brown the other. If the 
steaks are an inch thick, it will take 
eight minutes for perfect cooking. An 
exceedingly satisfactory way is to brown 
them quickly over a hot fire, then put 
the pan in the oven and allow them 
to cook for five minutes. Dust with 
salt, season with a little butter and 
pepper, and send to the table on a very 
hot dish ; or serve with brown or tomato 
sauce. If they have been cooked over 
the fire, or in the oven, put a table- 
spoonful of butter into the pan m v/hich 
they were cooked, add a tablespoonful of 
flour, a half cup of stock, and a half cup 
of strained tomatoes. When boiling, 
add a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pep- 
per, and pour over the steaks. 



14 LEFT OyERS 

Cannelon 

Put twice through the meat chopper 
one pound of tough meat, season with a 
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, 
and, if you Hke, a little celeiy seed or 
chopped celery top ; take this chopped 
meat into your hands, and form it into a 
roll about four inches in diameter and six 
inches long. Roll this in a piece of oiled 
paper, put it in a baking pan, bake in a 
quick oven thirty minutes, basting the 
paper with melted butter three or four 
times. When done, carefully remove the 
paper, dish the cannelon, and pour around 
plain tomato sauce. 

Brown Stew 

Cut any left-over pieces of uncooked 
tough meat into cubes of one inch. Put 
a couple of tablespoonfuls of suet into a 
saucepan ; when rendered out, remove 
the cracklings. Dust the bits of meat 
with a tablespoonful of flour, throw them 
into the hot suet, and shake until brown. 
Draw the meat to one side, and add to 
the fdt in the pan a second tablespoonful 
of flour ; mix, add one pint of water or 
stock, stir until boiling, add a teaspoonful 
of salt, a bay leaf^ slice of onion, a tea- 



BEEF— UNCOOKED 1$ 

spoonful of browning or kitchen bouquet; 
cover and simmer gently until the meat is 
tender, about an hour and a half. The 
proportions given here are for one pound 
of beef. This may be served plain, or in 
a border of rice, or with dumplings. If 
dumplings, put a pint of flour into a bowl, 
add a teaspoonful of salt and one of bak- 
ing powder ; mix thoroughly and add 
sufficient milk to just moisten ; drop by 
spoonfuls over the top of the stew, cover 
the saucepan and cook for ten minutes. 
Do not lift the cover during the ten 
minutes or the dumplings will fall. 

Beef Timbale 

Chop fine any left-over tough bits of 
lean beef Cook together for a moment 
a gill of strained tomatoes and one cup of 
bread crumbs ; add to the meat, rub to a 
smooth paste, season with a quarter of a 
teaspoonful of celery seed, a half tea- 
spoonful of salt and a dash of pepper ; 
mix, and then stir in carefully the well- 
beaten whites of two eggs ; fill into cus- 
tard cups, stand in a pan of boiling water, 
and cook in a moderate oven twenty min- 
utes. Serve with tomato sauce. This 
recipe is for one pound of beef. 



i6 LEFT OILERS 



BEEF— COOKED 

Ragout 

Cut pieces of cold boiled or roasted 
beef into cubes of one inch ; to each 
quart of this allow two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, two of flour and a pint of stock. 
Rub the butter and flour together, add 
the stock, stir until boiling ; add a table- 
spoonful of onion juice, a teaspoonful of 
browning or kitchen bouquet, a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a tablespoonful of tomato 
catsup, a tablespoonful chopped parsley; 
add the meat ; stand over the back part 
of the stove until thoroughly hot ; serve 
on a heated platter garnished with trian- 
gular pieces of toasted bread. A few 
left-over olives, mushrooms, or even a 
chopped truffle, may be added. 

Bresleau 

Chop sufficient cold cooked meat to 
make one pint, season it with a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a quarter of a teaspoonful 
of pepper. Put a half cup of stock 
or water, two tablespoonfuls of bread 
crumbs and a tablespoonful of butter 



BEEF— COOKED tj 

over the fire ; when hot, add to it the 
meat ; take from the fire and stir in care- 
fully two well-beaten eggs. Put this in 
greased custard cups, stand them in a 
baking pan half filled with boiling water, 
and bake in a moderate oven fifteen or 
twenty minutes ; serve with tomato sauce 
or sauce Bechamel. 



Beef Croquettes 

Chop sufficient cold cooked beef to 
make one pint ; add to it a teaspoonful 
of salt, teaspoonful of onion juice, a dash 
of cayenne, a quarter of a teaspoonful 
of pepper, and a grating of nutmeg. 
Put a half pint of milk over the fire. 
Rub together one tablespoonful of butter 
and two tablespoonfuls of flour, add 
them to the hot milk, stir until you have 
a smooth thick paste ; take from the 
fire ; mix with it the meat, and turn out 
to cool. When cold, form into cro- 
quettes. Beat one egg, add to it a 
tablespoonful of warm water, and beat 
again. Dip the croquettes first into this, 
then roll them in bread crumbs, and fry 
them in smoking hot fat. They may be 
served plain or with tomato sauce. 



I8 LEFT OVERS 

Beef Steak Pudding 

Cut cold cooked steak into cubes of 
a half inch. To each pint of these 
allow a half pint of milk, six tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, two eggs, and two table- 
spoonfuls of chopped suet. Put the 
flour into a bowl ; beat the eggs, add to 
them the milk, then add gradually 
to the flour ; make perfectly smooth. 
Cover the bottom of a baking dish 
with a layer of the batter, put in the 
bits of steak, sprinkle over the chopped 
suet, then a dusting of salt and pep- 
per, and, if you like, a few drops of 
onion juice ; now put over the remaining" 
quantity of the batter, and bake in a 
moderately quick oven an hour and a 
half. 

Potato Dumplings 

Take any pieces of cold cooked meat, 
chop them fine, season carefully with 
salt, pepper, chopped parsley or celery. 
To each pint allow two tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter. For the crust you 
may use left-over cold mashed pota- 
toes ; if so, add a little milk and stir 
them over the fire until smooth and hot. 
If potatoes are boiled for the purpose, 



BEEF— COOKED 19 

add salt, butter and milk, and beat 
them until light. Line to the depth 
of one inch, a baking dish, put the meat 
in the centre, cover the top with mashed 
potatoes, smooth, brush with milk and 
bake in a moderate oven a half hour. 



Qobbits 

Scrape and cut into fancy pieces one 
good sized carrot and one turnip. Put 
these into a saucepan, cover with a pint 
of stock, and cook slowly until the vege- 
tables are tender. Have ready, cut into 
cubes of one inch, sufficient cold cooked 
beef to make a quart ; add it to the vege- 
tables, simmer a few minutes until the 
meat is hot ; have ready also one cup of 
rice that has been boiled thirty minutes 
in clear water, drained and dried. Arrange 
this in a border around the meat dish. 
Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and flour 
into a saucepan ; mix. Drain the liquor 
from the meat and vegetables, which 
should now measure one pint ; if not, add 
sufficient stock to make a pint ; add this 
to the butter and flour, and stir until boil- 
ing. Dish the meat and vegetables in the 
centre of the rice border. Take the 



ao LEFT OVERS 

sauce from the fire, add a teaspoonful of 
salt, a dash of pepper and the yolks of 
two tggs. Reheat for just an instant, 
strain over the meat mixture, dust with 
chopped parsley, and serve at once. 

Beef Fritters 

Chop sufficient cold cooked beef to 
make one pint ; add to it a teaspoonful of 
salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
pepper. Beat two eggs until light, add 
to them a half pint of water or stock ; 
stir into this one and a half cups of flour, 
beat until smooth, add a teaspoonful of 
baking powder and the meat. Drop this 
by spoonfuls into smoking hot fat ; cook 
about three minutes, drain on brown 
paper, and serve either on a folded 
napkin, or in a dish with tomato sauce. 

Minced Beef on Toast 

Take the meat from between the 
bones of a rib roast, or any little bits 
that would not be serviceable in other 
dishes, chop them fine, and to each 
pint, allow one tablespoonful of butter, 
one of flour and a half pint of tomatoes or 



BEEF— COOKED 21 

stock. Mix the butter and flour together, 
then add the tomatoes strained or 
stock ; when boiling add the meat, and a 
palatable seasoning of salt and pepper. 
Stand the mixture over hot water until 
smoking hot, and serve on squares of 
toasted bread. 



Barbacue of Cold Beef 

Cut cold-roasted or boiled beef into 
thin slices. Put into your saucepan two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoon- 
fuls of catsup and two tablespoonfuls of 
sherry ; stir until hot ; drop the slices of 
beef into this, cover the saucepan, shake 
occasionally for a minute, until the beef 
is smoking hot, and send at once to the 
table. This is exceedingly nice made 
and served from a chating dish. This 
dish may be made by omitting the sherry 
and using a teaspoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce, a teaspoonful of mushroom catsup 
and two tablespoonfuls of stock. 

Salt Beef 

Cold cooked corned beef is best 
made into hash. Chop sufficient to 



22 LEFT OVERS 

make one pint. Chop the same quan- 
tity of cold boiled potatoes; mix the 
two together, put them into a sauce- 
pan, add half pint of stock, a table- 
spoonful of butter, teaspoonful of onion 
juice and a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
black or white pepper. Stir carefully 
and constantly until the mixture reaches 
the boiling point. Serve at once on but- 
tered toast. 

Hash No. 3 

Chop enough cold cooked corned 
beef to make a pint; chop the same 
quantity of cold boiled potatoes ; mix 
the two together. Put them into a stew- 
ing pan, add one pint of stock ; simmer 
for just a moment; take from the fire, 
add tv/o eggs well beaten, a dash of pep- 
per ; turn the mixture into a baking 
dish and bake in a quick oven twenty 
minutes. 



MUTTON—UNCOOKED «3 

MUTTON-UNCOOKED 

Tough pieces of uncooked mutton 
may be put twice through the meat chop- 
per and used for curry balls or for stuff- 
ing for tomatoes or egg plant ; in fact, in 
almost any way that one would serve 
uncooked beef. Having fewer pieces of 
uncooked scrap mutton than of beef, we 
are less accustomed to seeing them used. 

Ciarry Balls 

Put any pieces of tough uncooked 
mutton tv/ice through the meatchopper; 
season the meat with salt, pepper and 
onion juice. Form into little balls the 
size of an English walnut. Put two 
tablespoonfuls of butter into a saucepan; 
when hot, throw the balls into the butter, 
and shake until carefully browaied. Lift 
them fi'om the saucepan, and to the 
butter in the pan add a teaspoonful of 
curry, a tablespoonful of flour, mix and 
add a half pint of stock ; stir carefully 
until boiling ; pour this over the balls, 
cook slowly for twenty minutes, add two 
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and serve in 
a border of rice. Cocoanut milk may be 
used in the place of stock. 



24 LEFT OVERS 



MUTTON-COOKED 

While mutton belongs to the red 
meats, when carefully cooked it may be 
used in many ways in which you would 
use chicken or veal. Capers and tomato, 
with a slight flavoring of mint, are more 
agreeable with mutton than with almost 
any other meats. 

Bobotee 

Chop sufficient cold boiled mutton to 
make a pint. Put two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and one onion sliced into a sauce- 
pan ; stir until the onion is slightly brown; 
then add a half pint of stock or milk and 
four tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs. 
Stand this on the back of the stove for 
about five minutes while you blanch and 
chop fine a dozen almonds. Add these to 
the meat, then add a teaspoonful of curry 
powder, and a teaspoonful of salt. Beat 
three eggs until light, stir them into the 
meat, then turn the whole into the sauce- 
pan. Rub the bottom of the baking 
dish first with a clove of garlic, then 
sprinkle over a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice and put here and there a few bits 



MUTTON— COOKED 25 

of butter ; put on this the mixture, and 
bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. 
Serve in the dish in which it is baked, 
and pass with it plain boiled rice. 

Boudins 

Chop sufficient cold cooked mutton 
to make a pint. Put a half cup of stock, 
two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs and 
a tablespoonful of butter over the fire. 
When hot, take from the fire, add the 
meat and three eggs well beaten ; add a 
teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. 
Put the mixture into greased custard 
cups, stand in a baking pan half filled 
with boiling water, and cook in a moder- 
ate oven fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve 
with sauce Bechamel. The bottom of 
the cups may be garnished with chopped 
mushrooms, capers, or chopped truffles, 
or dusted thickly with chopped parsley. 

KIopps 

Chop sufficient cold boiled mutton to 
make a pint; add to it a half pint of 
bread crumbs and sufficient white of egg 
to bind the whole together ; add a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a dash of white 



a6 LEFT OVERS 

pepper. Form into balls the size of English 
walnuts; drop into a kettle of boiling 
water ; pull the kettle to one side of the 
fire where it cannot possibly boil, and 
cook the klopps slowly for five or six 
minutes. When done they will float on 
the surface. Lift, drain carefully, put on 
to a heated dish, pour over cream celery 
or cream oyster sauce, and serve with 
them peas and boiled rice. 

Curry of flutton 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and 
one sHced onion into a pan ; cook slowly 
until the onion is perfectly tender ; add 
one clove of garlic mashed, a teaspoonful 
of curry powder and a teaspoonful of tur- 
meric ; mix thoroughly, add a half pint 
of stock, or, better cocoanut milk ; stir 
until boiling, add one quart of cold 
cooked mutton chopped fine ; heat thor- 
oughly, add a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, and pour at once into a platter that 
has been garnished with boiled rice. 

flutton with Anchovy 

Chop sufficient cold boiled mutton to 
make one pint ; mash fine three anchovies. 



MUTTON—COOKED 27 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter into a 
saucepan, add one sliced onion, cook 
until the onion is soft and yellow, add a 
clove of garlic mashed, add to this the 
anchovies and a half pint of stock ; sim- 
mer gently for fifteen minutes, and press 
through a sieve. Add a tablespoonful 
of capers, two or three leaves of mint 
that have been bruised, and the mutton 
chopped fine. Heat over boiling water 
for fifteen minutes, and serve on squares 
of toasted bread. This may be served 
plain or the top of each piece may be 
capped with a carefully poached tgg. 



Pilau 

Cut into bits any pieces of cold cooked 
mutton ; put them into a saucepan, cover 
with water, add a grated onion, a bay 
leaf and two or three cardamom seeds. 
Sprinkle over a half cup of rice that has 
been carefully washed ; cover the kettle 
and simmer slowly until the rice is tender. 
Dish the mutton, putting the rice over 
the top, cover the whole with a nicely 
made tomato sauce, and send at once to 
the table. 



28 LEFT OFERS 

Mutton Salad 

Any pieces of cold-roasted or boiled 
mutton may be cut into dice and used 
for an ordinary mutton salad. At serv- 
ing time arrange this neatly on lettuce 
leaves, or any accessible green ; season 
with salt and pepper, and cover with 
mayonnaise dressing to which has been 
added a tablespoonful of capers. 

Where celery, lettuce or other fresh 
greens cannot be procured, canned 
asparagus may be mixed with the mut- 
ton or may be served with it as a garnish ; 
giving an exceedingly agreeable accom- 
paniment. Where asparagus cannot be 
obtained, a can of peas may be drained, 
washed, drained again, and added to the 
mutton before it is mixed with the mayon- 
naise dressing, or the mutton may be 
mixed with mayonnaise and filled into 
tomatoes that have been peeled and 
the centres scooped out. Stand each on 
a little nest of lettuce leaves or on a 
bunch of cress, and garnish the top with 
capers. 



CHICKEN— UNCOOKED 29 

CHICKEN— UNCOOKED 

In purchasing a chicken for timbale, 
select a large one, but not an old fowl. 
After the chicken has been drawn, remove 
the white meat, which is used uncooked 
for timbales. The dark meat may be 
cooked at once and utilized for boudins, 
croquettes, salad, cecils, creamed hash, 
or served on toast with sauce Bordelaise, 
or used in chafing dish next day. Or if 
you prefer to use it raw, devil the legs 
and use the bones for soup. 

Timbale 

Chop fine the uncooked white meat 
of a chicken ; this should weigh a half 
pound. Then rub it with the back of a 
wooden spoon against the side of a bowl 
until perfectly smooth. Put one cup of 
white bread crumbs and a half cup of 
milk over the fire; stir until boiling; 
when cold, rub this thoroughly with the 
meat, and press it through an ordinary 
flour sieve. Stir into it carefully the well- 
beaten whites of five eggs, add a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a dash of white pepper ; 
fill into greased timbale cups, stand in a 
baking pan of boiling water, cover with 
oiled paper, and bake in a moderate oven 



30 LEFT OyERS 

fifteen to twenty minutes. The bottoms 
of the cups may be garnished with 
chopped truffle, chopped mushrooms, 
chopped parsley, or nicely cooked green 
peas. Serve with the timbales either a 
plain cream sauce or a cream mushroom 
sauce. Peas are the usual accompaniment. 
Or the timbale molds may be lined 
with this mixture, and the centres filled 
with creamed mushrooms ; put enough 
of the timbale mixture over the top to 
hold in the stuffing ; they will then be 
cooked and served in the usual manner. 

Deviled Chicken Legs 

Carefully remove the bones from the 
legs of an uncooked chicken. To a half 
cup of bread crumbs add twelve chopped 
almonds, two tablespoonfuls of toasted 
pinon nuts, a tablespoonful of parsley, 
a half teaspoonful of salt and a dash 
of cayenne ; moisten with two table- 
spoonfuls of butter. Stuff this into the 
spaces from which you have taken the 
bones, tie the legs top and bottom to keep 
in the stufiing. Place the bones from the 
carcass of the chicken in the soup kettle, 
cover with cold water, and when the 
water reaches boiling point place the 
legs on top of the bones and cook con- 



CHICKEN— UNCOOKED 31 

tinuously for two hours. They may be 
served hot with sauce, or cold, cut into 
thin sHces garnished with aspic. 

English Chicken Balls 

Chop fine the dark meat left over 
from timbales, add a half can of finely 
chopped mushrooms, a teaspoonful of 
salt, a half teaspoonful of pepper, a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, a dozen 
blanched and finely chopped almonds and 
one raw egg ; mix thoroughly and form 
into balls the size of an English walnut. 
Arrange these over the bottom of a 
saucepan, cover with stock, add a bay 
leaf, a slice of onion and of carrot ; cook 
slowly a half to three-quarters of an 
hour ; drain, saving the stock. Dish 
the balls in the centre of a platter, put 
around the edge a row of potato bullets, 
outside of that small triangles of toast. 
Put a tablespoonful of butter and one of 
flour into a saucepan ; mix, add a half pint 
of stock in which the balls were cooked, 
stir until boiling, take from the fire, add 
the yolk of one egg beaten with two 
tablespoonfuls of cream ; add a half tea- 
spoonful of salt and dash of pepper ; 
strain this over the balls and serve. 



32 LEFT OVERS 



CHICKEN— COOKED 

The remains of cold chicken or turkey 
may be used in precisely the same man- 
ner, or made into croquettes, using the 
same rule as for beef croquettes. With 
an accompaniment of mayonnaise of cel- 
ery, or mayonnaise of tomato, they make 
an extremely good luncheon dish. For 
an evening entertainment they may be 
simply garnished with cooked peas. 
Meat croquettes are usually made into 
pyramid forms ; they may, however, be 
made into cylinders. Boudins of chicken 
or turkey are also exceedingly nice. 

Creamed Hash on Toast 

This is one of the tastiest of all the 
warmed-over chicken dishes. Chop the 
chicken fine, and to each pint allow one 
tablespoonful of butter, one of flour and 
a half pint of milk. Rub the butter and 
flour together, add the milk, stir over the 
fire until boiling, season the meat with a 
teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper, 
add to the milk sauce, and stir over hot 
water for fifteen minutes. The flavoring 



CHICKEN— COOKED 33 

may be changed by adding three or four 
chopped mushrooms, or, if you have it, 
a chopped truffle ; but it is exceedingly 
good plain. Heap this on squares of 
nicely toasted bread, serve at once, or 
you may garnish the tops with carefully 
poached eggs. 



Casserole 

Wash a half cup of rice ; throw it into 
boiling water, boil for twenty minutes, 
drain, add a half cup of milk, a table- 
spoonful of butter, a level teaspoonful of 
salt and a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
pepper; stir until you have a rather 
smooth thick paste. Brush custard cups, 
line them to the depth of a half inch with 
this rice mixture ; make a plain milk 
sauce, as in preceding recipe, and add 
a pint of seasoned chicken. Fill the 
space in the rice cups Avith this cream 
mixture, put over a covering of rice, 
stand the cups in a pan of boiling water, 
and bake in a moderate oven for twenty 
to twenty-five minutes. Turn these care- 
fully on a heated dish, pour around 
cream sauce and serve. They may be 
garnished with green peas, mushrooms 



34 LEFT OyERS 

or truffles. While this is an exceedingly 
economical dish it is at the same time an 
elegant one. 

Indian Mash 

Chop fine sufficient cold-roasted 
duck, chicken, or turkey to make one 
pint. Cut a good-sized onion into 
very thin slices. Pare, core, and chop 
fine one apple. Put two tablespoonfuls 
of butter in a saucepan, add the apple 
and the onion ; toss until brown, then 
add not more than an eighth of a tea- 
spoonful of powdered mace, a ludf tea- 
spoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of curry 
powder, a tablespoonful of flour, a tea- 
spoonful of sugar ; mix and add a half 
pint of stock or water ; now add the 
meat, stir constantly until smoking hot, 
then stand over hot water, covering 
closely for twenty minutes. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and serve 
in a border of rice. 



Mock Terrapin or a la Newburg 

Pieces of cold-roasted chicken, turkey 
or duck may be used for making terra- 
pin or a la Newburg. Cut the meat 



CHICKEN— COOKED 35 

into pieces of fairly good size ; meas- 
ure, and to each pint of this allow a 
half pint of sauce ; rub together two 
tablespoonfuls of butter and one of flour. 
Rub to a smooth paste the hard boiled 
yolks of three eggs ; add to the butter 
and flour a gill and a half (three-quarters 
of a cup) of milk ; stir until smoking hot. 
Do not let the mixture boil ; then add 
this a little at a time to the yolks of the 
eggs, rubbing until you have a perfectly 
smooth golden sauce ; press this through 
a sieve. Before beginning the sauce, 
sprinkle the chicken with four table- 
spoonfuls of sherry or Madeira, the latter 
preferable. Add the chicken to the 
sauce, stir until each'piece is thoroughly 
covered; add a half teaspoonful of salt, 
just a drop of extract of nutmeg or a 
grating of nutmeg, an eighth of a spoon 
of white pepper (black pepper, of course, 
may be used) ; cover and stand over hot 
water, stirring occasionally until the 
mixture is smoking hot. 



Chicken Supreme 

This may be made from either 
chicken or turkey cut into dice ; add an 



36 LEFT OyERS 

equal quantity of canned mushrooms ; 
for instance, to one pint of cold chicken, 
add one can of mushrooms. Put two 
tablespoonfuls of butter and two of flour 
in a saucepan ; mix without browning, 
then add two cups (one pint) of chicken 
stock ; stir constantly until boiling, add 
two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, and 
the yolks of four eggs ; strain, add the 
chicken and mushrooms, a level tea- 
spoonful of salt, a quarter of a teaspoon- 
ful of white pepper, ten drops of celery 
extract or just a little celery seed. Stand 
this mixture over hot water, watching 
carefully until it is thoroughly heated ; 
remember that any boiling will curdle 
the egg. Serve this on a heated dish 
either in a border of rice or garnished 
■with squares of toasted bread. This 
mixture is also served in bread pates, or 
it may be served in chicken muffin cases. 

Chicken Cutlets 

Chop cold cooked chicken or turkey 
very fine ; to each pint allow a half can 
of mushrooms chopped fine. Put one 
tablespoonful of butter and two of flour 
into a saucepan, mix, and add a half pint 



CHICKEN— COOKED 37 

of chicken stock. When smooth and 
thick take from the fire, add the yolks of 
two eggs, the chicken and mushrooms, a 
teaspoonful of salt, quarter of a teaspoon- 
ful of pepper, a teaspoonful of onion 
juice, a grating of nutmeg and a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley ; stir over 
the fire for a moment ; turn out to cool ; 
when cold form into cutlet-shaped cro- 
quettes, dip in &gg and bread crumbs, 
and fiy in smoking hot fat. These may 
be served plain, with a garnish of peas, 
or they may be served with sauce 
Bechamel. 



Duck Bordelaise 

Portions of cold duck may be cut into 
convenient pieces, sprinkled with wine, 
about fourtablespoonfuls to the pint, and 
allowed to stand v/hile you make sauce 
Bordelaise. Put one tablespoonful of 
butter and one of flour into a saucepan ; 
mix, add a teaspoonful of browning or 
kitchen bouquet and a half pint of stock ; 
stir until boiling, add a tablespoonful of 
grated onion, a half teaspoonful of salt, a 
dash of pepper and, if you have it, a 
tablespoonful of finely-chopped ham ; 



J 



8 LEFT OVERS 



cook for five minutes and strain ; add 
three or four fresh mushrooms or a half 
dozen canned mushrooms and the duck. 
Stand over boiling water until the mix- 
ture is thoroughly heated. Send to the 
table garnished with triangles of toasted 
bread. A few stoned olives or sliced 
ohves may be added in the place of the 
mushrooms, and you would then have 
salmi of duck. 



G/iME 39 



GAME 



Bits of cold broiled or roasted game 
may be chopped very fine, rubbed to a 
smooth paste either in a bowl or mortar. 
To each half pint of this mixture allow 
two tablespoonfuls of brown sauce thor- 
oughly rubbed with the game, and the 
unbeaten white of one egg ; press the 
whole mixture through an ordinary flour 
sieve ; then stir in the well-beaten whites 
of two eggs, four mushrooms chopped 
almost to a powder, and a seasoning 
of salt and pepper. Fill this into 
little greased molds or cups ; the cups 
may be garnished with chopped truffle 
or mushrooms, or served plain. Fill in 
the mixture, stand the cups in a baking 
pan half filled with boiling water ; cook 
in a moderate oven twenty minutes. The 
little bomb-shaped molds are the better 
sort to use for these. Serve with brown 
sauce either plain or flavored with mush- 
rooms. 



40 LEFT OVERS 

BREAD 

The better way is to cut just suffi- 
cient bread for each meal so that there will 
be really no left-overs. If, however, a few 
slices are accidentally left, put them aside 
in a can or jar, never in the regular bread 
box with the bread ; one or two slices will 
invariably be missed until sufficiently old 
to mold and contaminate the remaining 
quantity of bread in the box, and then, 
too, they are more apt to accumulate in 
this way than in a separate box. The 
neater pieces may be used for toast for 
breakfast or lunch or supper. The next 
best pieces use for bread and butter cus- 
tard ; the crusts dry, roll and put aside to 
be ready for breading articles to be fried, 
or for escalloped dishes. In this way 
every piece, no matter what its condition, 
will be utilized. 

Bread and Butter Custard 

Beat two eggs, without separating, 
until light, add four tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and a pint of milk, mix and add 
a grating of nutmeg ; turn into an ordi- 
nary baking dish, cover the top with 



BREAD 41 

buttered bread, butter side up ; bake in 
a moderate oven just as you would a 
cup custard, until you can put a spoon 
handle down in the centre of the custard 
and it will come out free from milk. 

Little Puddings a la Grand Belle 

Roll slices of stale bread into fine 
crumbs. Brush small custard cups, 
or a border mold with melted butter, 
sprinkle over a few currants or raisins, or 
any fruit that you may have left over. 
Fill the cups with crumbs. Beat three 
eggs, without separating, until light ; add 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar, ateaspoon- 
ful of vanilla and a pint of milk. Pour 
this carefully over the bread crumbs, let 
them stand for about five minutes until 
the mixture has been soaked up and the 
bread crum.bs soft ; then stand in a pan 
of boiling water, cover with oiled paper 
and cook in the oven a half hour. 
Turn out and serve hot with egg sauce. 

Bread Croquettes 

Rub sufficient stale bread to make 
one quart of crumbs ; add four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, a half cup of cleaned 



42 LEFT OVERS 

currants, or any fruit that you have left 
over, and a grating of nutmeg ; sprinkle 
over a teaspoonful of vanilla, and add 
sufficient beaten eggs (about three) to 
moisten the crumbs. Form into small 
cylinder-shaped croquettes, dip in Qgg 
and roll in bread crumbs and fry in smok- 
ing hot fat, Serve hot with sugar sauce. 



Bread fluffins 

Cover a quart of bits of bread that 
have been broken apart, with one pint of 
milk ; soak for fifteen minutes, then 
with a spoon beat until you have a 
smooth paste ; add the yolks of three 
eggs, a tablespoonful of melted butter 
and one cup of flour that has been sifted 
with a heaping teaspoonful of baking 
powder. Fold in carefully the well- 
beaten whites of the eggs, and bake in 
muffin pans in a quick oven about twenty 
minutes. 

Muffins left from breakfast may be 
pulled apart and toasted for lunch or sup- 
per. Pieces of stale sponge cake, in fact, 
any stale cake may be used for cabinet 
puddings, for cream puddings, or for 
croquettes. 



EGGS 43 



EGGS 



The soft boiled eggs that are left 
from breakfast will be at once hard boiled, 
put into the refrigerator, and when four 
have accumulated, use them for Beaure- 
gard eggs, a la Newburg dishes or gar- 
nishes. Poached eggs that are left over 
may be dropped at once into boiling water, 
cooked slowly until perfectly hard, and 
put aside for chopping, to use as a garnish 
for a curry or some vegetable dish with 
which they will nicely blend. 

The tablespoonful or two of stewed 
tomatoes left in the dish fi'om dinner will 
be put aside to use for tomato omelet, 
or they may be added to the roasted 
beef gravy for dinner, converting a plain 
homely gravy into one of better flavor. 
The half cup of peas may be added to 
to-morrow's consomme, or used as a 
garnish for the breakfast omelet. The 
green portions of celery will be put aside 
for stewing ; the tender white part for 
serving raw ; while the leaves and roots 
will be used for flavoring soups and 
sauces. 

The yolk of tgg left over, if put into 



44 LEFT Ol/ERS 

a cup or saucer will, in less than two 
hours, become hard, dry and useless. 
This same yolk dropped into a cup half 
filled with cold water will keep for sev- 
eral days, and may be used for mayon- 
naise or added to a sauce. When needed, 
it may be carefully lifted with a spoon 
and used the same as a fresh yolk. 



Whites of Eggs 

The yolks of eggs are quite easily 
disposed of, as sauces frequently call for 
the yolk of one or two eggs ; then they 
may be used for mayonnaise dressing, or 
added to various dishes. The whites of 
eggs however accumulate. One of the 
ways of getting hard boiled yolks, without 
wasting the whites, is to separate the 
white and the yolk before the G;gg is 
cooked ; drop the yolk down into a kettle 
of boiling water ; then stand on the back 
part of the stove for fifteen or twenty 
minutes until it is hard. The yolk will 
cook in this way just as well as with 
the white in the shell. Now, you have 
the uncooked whites, which may be used 
for a simple white cake, apple float, souf- 
fles, plain or with fruit. 



EGGS 45 

Beauregard Eggs 

Separate the whites and yolks of five 
hard boiled eggs, press through an ordi- 
nary fruit press, or chop very fine. Make 
a half pint of cream sauce ; when boiling, 
add the whites of the eggs. Have ready 
on a heated platter five squares of toasted 
bread ; heap the white sauce over these 
squares, dust the top with the yolks of 
the eggs, then with a little salt and pep- 
per, and send at once to the table. 

Egg Croquettes 

Put five hard boiled eggs through a 
vegetable press, or chopper. Put one 
tablespoonful of butter and two of flour 
into a saucepan, add a half pint of milk, 
stir until boiling, add a half cup of stale, 
unbrowned bread crumbs, a teaspoonful 
of salt, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
a dash of pepper and a half teaspoonful 
of onion juice ; add the eggs, mix and 
turn out to cool. When cold form into 
cutlets, dip in egg and then in bread 
crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat. 
Serve with plain cream sauce. These 
with peas make an exceedingly nice 
luncheon dish. 



46 LEFT OVERS 



POTATOES 

Cold baked potatoes will be converted 
at once into stuffed potatoes, and put aside 
for revvarming. Two cold boiled potatoes 
will make a comfortable dish of hashed 
browned potatoes, or may be served with 
cream sauce or au gratin. 



Stuffed Potatoes 

Baked potatoes that are left over 
must be made into stuffed potatoes before 
they are heavy and cold. At the close 
of the meal at which they were first 
served, cut the potatoes directly into 
halves, scoop out the inside portion, put 
it through an ordinary vegetable press, 
or mash it fine ; add a little butter, salt, 
pepper and sufficient milk to make a 
hght mixture ; stand this over hot water 
and beat until hght and smooth. Put it 
back into the shells, and stand them aside 
in a cold place. When ready to serve, 
brush the top with beaten ^gg, run them 
into a quick oven until hot and golden 
brown. 



POTATOES 47 

Potato Croquettes 

Cold mashed potatoes may be made 
into croquettes by adding to each pint 
four tablespoonfuls of heated milk, the 
yolks of two eggs, a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of grated 
onion, a quarter of a teaspoonful of pep- 
per ; stir over the fire until the mixture 
is thoroughly heated ; form into cyhnder- 
shaped croquettes, dip in Qgg and rolled 
bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot 
fat. Potato croquettes are more difficult 
to fry than meat croquettes ; the fat 
must be at least 365 degrees (Fahr.) and 
the rolling carefully done. 



Potato Puff 

The above mixture may have the 
whites of the eggs beaten and stirred in, 
and baked in the oven ; serve in the 
same dish in which it was baked. 



Potato Roses for Garnishing: 

Cold boiled potatoes may have 
added sufficient milk to make a soft 
paste ; stir it over the fire until smooth ; 



48 LEFT OVERS 

put it into your pastry bag, using a 
star tube ; hold the bag firmly, pressing 
out on greased papers these little potato 
roses ; brown in the oven and use them 
for garnishing fish dishes. 

Potato Custards 

Stir two cups of cold mashed pota- 
toes, with four tablespoonfuls of milk, 
over the fire until they are warm and 
light ; take from the fire and add three 
eggs beaten light with four tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar. Add a teaspoonful of 
vanilla, stir in carefully a pint and a half 
of milk. Put this mixture into greased 
custard cups ; stand in a baking pan of 
boiling water and bake in a moderate oven 
until set, about twenty or thirty minutes. 

Where a little cooked meat and, at 
the same time, mashed potatoes, are left 
over, the meat may be seasoned with a 
savory sauce, turned into a baking dish, 
the mashed potatoes slightly thinned 
with hot milk and then slightly thick- 
ened with flour, and used as a crust. 
This makes what we call a potato pie. 
Four tablespoonfuls of milk and four of 
flour would be a good allowance to each 
cupful of mashed potatoes. 



COLD BOILED POTATOES 49 



COLD BOILED POTATOES 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 

Chop two cold boiled potatoes rather 
fine, season with salt and pepper. Put 
a tablespoonful of butter in an ordinary 
saute-pan ; when hot, put in the pota- 
toes, smoothing and patting them down ; 
stand over a m.oderate nre and allow 
them to cook undisturbed for at least 
eight minutes ; then with a limber knife 
fold over one half as you would an ome- 
let ; stand again over the fire for about 
three minutes and turn at once on to a 
heated dish. These are exceedingly 
difficult to make. Directions must be 
carefully followed ; the butter must be 
hot when you put in the potatoes ; the 
whole must be packed firmly down so 
that it will not break when turning out. 

Potatoes au Qratin 

To each four good sized cold pota- 
toes chopped fine allow^a pint of cream 
sauce, to which you have added four 
tablespoonfuls of grated cheese ; mix the 



so LEFT OVERS 

potatoes with the sauce, turn them into 
a baking dish and brown in a quick oven. 



Scalloped Potatoes 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into dice ; to 
each pint allow a half pint of cream 
sauce. Put a layer of the sauce in the 
bottom of a baking dish, put in the pota- 
toes, season with salt and pepper, cover 
with another layer of cream sauce, dust 
the top with bread crumbs, dot here and 
there little bits of butter, and bake in a 
moderate oven until a golden brown. 

Potatoes in Hilk 

Cold boiled potatoes may be cut into 
slices and cooked in milk in a double 
boiler until the whole is thoroughly 
heated ; season with salt and pepper and 
serve. 

Sweet Potatoes 

Cold boiled or roasted sweet potatoes 
may be mashed while warm, seasoned 
with salt, pepper and butter and formed 
at once into croquettes ; dip and fry the 
same as white potato croquettes. 



COLD BOILED POTATOES 51 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into small 
dice ; to each pint allow a tablespoonful 
of butter ; put the butter in an ordinary- 
saute pan, melt it, add a tablespoonful of 
chopped onion, shake until the onion is 
golden brown ; throw in the potatoes, 
shake or toss over a hot fire until each 
piece is slightly browned ; sprinkle lightly 
with a half teaspoonful of salt, a table- 
spoonful of parsley, and a dash of pepper ; 
dish and serve. 

Broiled Potatoes 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into thin 
slices lengthwise ; dip each slice in a lit- 
tle melted butter, dust it with salt and 
pepper, and broil it over a clear fire until 
a golden brown. For dyspeptics it is 
better to broil the potato first and add 
the butter after, as the heating of the 
butter renders it indigestible. Sweet 
potatoes may be broiled after this same 
rule, and would be less greasy than when 
fried. 



52 LEFT OFERS 



CHEESE 

The shells of Edam, or pine-apple 
cheese, after all the available cheese has 
been scooped out, will be used as a bak- 
ing dish for stewed spaghetti or maca- 
roni or rice. If care is taken, one shell 
may be used for three or four bakings. 
Boil the macaroni in plain water until 
tender ; then drain, cut it into small 
pieces and add it to cream sauce. Pour 
this into the cheese shell, stand the shell 
on a piece of oiled paper in a baking pan 
and run into a moderate oven for fifteen 
or twenty minutes. Lift the shell care- 
fully, put it on to a heated dish, and send 
at once to the table. After the macaroni 
has been taken out, the shell will be 
cleaned and put aside in a cold place for 
the next baking. There is just enough 
cheese imparted by the toasting of this 
shell to give an agreeable flavor to the 
macaroni. Plain boiled rice may be 
heaped into the shells and steamed, or 
baked in the oven for a few moments. 

Any scraps or bits of common cheese, 
when too hard and dry to serve on the 
table should be grated, put into a jar and 



CHEESE 53 

put aside for cheese balls to serve with 
lettuce, cheese souffle, for baked maca- 
roni, or spaghetti, or for croquettes, 
cheese sauce, or Duchess soup. 

Cheese Souffle 

Put one cup of stale bread crumbs 
with a gill of milk over the fire for just a 
moment ; take from the fire, add the 
yolks of three eggs, six tablespoonfuls of 
grated cheese, a half teaspoonful of salt 
and a dash of red pepper ; stir in the well- 
beaten whites of the eggs ; put into indi- 
vidual baking dishes ; bake in a quick 
oven about eight minutes and send at 
once to the table. 

Cheese Balls 

Grate or chop sufficient common 
cheese to make a half pint ; add to it one 
pint of stale bread crumbs, a half tea- 
spoonful of salt, a dash of red pepper 
and the whites of two eggs slightly 
beaten. Form these into small balls the 
size of an English walnut ; dip in &gg 
and then in bread crumbs and fry in 
smoking hot fat. These may also be 
made into small cylinder-shaped cro- 
quettes, and served with cream sauce. 



54 LEFT OVERS 

Duchess Soup 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and 
a sliced onion in a saucepan ; cook until 
the onion is soft and yellow ; add to this 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, mix, and 
then add one quart of milk, a level tea- 
spoonful of salt and a palatable season- 
ing of red pepper. Add six tablespoon- 
fuls of grated cheese ; stir in a double 
boiler until it is smoking hot ; press 
through a fine sieve ; reheat and send at 
once to the table. 

Cheese Pudding 

Toast slices of stale bread until a 
golden brown and crisp to the centre. 
This is best done in the oven. Put a 
layer of this toasted bread in the bottom 
of a baking dish ; put over a quarter of 
a cup of grated or chopped cheese, 
sprinkle with salt and red pepper ; then 
another layer of bread, another of cheese 
and the last of bread. Pour over suffi- 
cient milk to moisten the bread; bake 
in a quick oven fifteen minutes, and serve 
at once. 



SAUCES 55 



SAUCES 



All meat sauces are made after the 
same rule, changing the liquids to give 
varieties ; for instance, one tablespoon- 
ful of butter (which means an ounce), 
and one tablespoonful of flour (a half 
ounce) are always allowed to each half 
pint of liquid. The butter and flour are 
rubbed together (better without heating), 
then the Hquid added, cold or warm, the 
whole stirred over the fire until boiHng. 
A half teaspoonful of salt and an eighth 
of a teaspoonful of pepper is the proper 
amount of seasoning. 

White Sauce 

If you wish to make a white sauce, 
use one tablespoonful of butter, one 
tablespoonful of flour and a half pint of 
milk. Called also milk or cream sauce. 

Tomato Sauce 

Tomato sauce will have the same 
proportions of butter and flour and a 
half pint of strained tomatoes. 



56 LEFT OVERS 

Sauce Bechamel 

For sauce Bechamel, fill the cup half 
full of stock, then the remaining half 
with milk, giving again the half pint of 
hquid, and usual quantity of butter and 
flour. 

English Drawn Butter 

For English drawn butter, use a 
tablespoonful of butter, a tablespoonful 
of flour, and a half pint of water. We 
usually have the water boiling, and add 
it gradually to the butter and flour, 
stirring rapidly. As soon as it reaches 
boiling point, take from the fire and 
add carefully another tablespoonful of 
butter. This may be converted into a 
plain 

Sauce HoIIandaise 

by adding with the last tablespoonful 
of butter, the yolks of two eggs, the 
juice of half a lemon, a teaspoonful of 
onion juice and a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley. 

Sauce Supreme 

This is one of the nicest of all sauces 
to use with warmed-over chicken, duck 



SAUCES 57 

or turkey. Rub together a tablespoon- 
ful of butter and one of flour, then add 
gradually a half pint of chicken stock ; 
stir constantly until boiling, take from 
the fire, add the yolks of two eggs, strain 
through a fine sieve, add the seasoning, 
and serve immediately. 

Sauces containing the yolks of 
uncooked eggs cannot be reboiled after 
the eggs are added. 

Brown 5auce 

This is made by rubbing butter and 
flour together in the above proportions, 
then adding a half pint of stock ; stir until 
boiling, add a teaspoonful of browning 
or kitchen bouquet and the usual sea- 
soning of salt and pepper. To change 
the character of this sauce add garlic, 
onion, Worcestershire sauce, mushroom 
catsup, etc. 

Brown Tomato Sauce 

An exceedingly nice sauce for Ham- 
burg steaks. After you have taken 
the steaks from the pan, add a table- 
spoonful of butter and one of flour ; mix. 
Fill your measuring cup half full of 



58 LEFT OVERS 

strained tomatoes, the remaining half 
with stock, making a half pint ; add this 
to the butter and flour, stir until boiling, 
add a seasoning of salt and pepper and 
pour over the steaks. 

Roasted Beef Gravy 

Roasted beef gravy, which really 
should be a sauce, is improved by adding 
a little tomato to the stock before adding 
it to the fat and flour. In roasting 
meats, we do not use butter for the 
sauce; there is always sufficient fat in 
the bottom of the pan. Pour from the 
pan all but one or two tablespoonfuls of 
fat (the amount required) and add to 
that the flour. A rounding tablespoon- 
ful of butter to which we refer weighs an 
ounce ; of liquid fat, as in the pan, you 
must allow two even tablespoonfuls to the 
ounce ; so, if you are going to make a 
half pint of sauce take out all but two 
tablespoonfuls of flit ; add one table- 
spoonful of flour and then the half pint 
of water or stock. 

Browning 

Plain burned sugar (caramel) may be 
used to color soups and sauces, thus 



SAUCES 59 

saving the trouble of browning the flour 
or butter. It is also used as a flavoring for 
sweets. Put one cup of sugar, dry, into 
an iron saucepan. Stand it over a hot 
fire, and stir continually until it is reduced 
to a dark brown liquid. When it begins 
to burn and smoke, add hastily a cup of 
boiling water, stir and cook until a thin 
syrup-like mixture is formed. It must 
not be too thick. Bottle, and it is ready 
for use, and will keep any length of time. 

Kitchen Bouquet 

Add one chopped onion and a tea- 
spoonful of celeiy seed to one cup of dry 
sugar, and then proceed as for ordinary 
browning. Strain and bottle. A very 
good mixture under this name can be 
purchased at the grocers. 

Mushroom Sauce 

Where just a few mushrooms are left 
over, either fresh or canned, they may 
be chopped fine and added to a brown 
sauce and served with steak or beef; or 
they may be chopped fine and added to 
a cream sauce and served with chicken 
or sweetbreads. 



6o LEFT OVERS 

Cold Heat Sauces 

It is the fashion when one is serving 
cold meat to pass with it some condi- 
ment like Worcestershire sauce, mush- 
room, walnut or tomato catsup. Of 
course, these used in any great quantity 
are more or less injurious. A number 
of little left overs in the house may be 
used to take their place, adding zest to 
the meat, and are more economical and 
more wholesome. 

Chopped Tomato 5auce 

Peel a good-sized tomato, cut it into 
halves and press out the seeds ; chop the 
flesh of the tomato fine, add a quar- 
ter of a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of 
pepper, or, if you have it, a little sweet 
pepper chopped fine; you may add also 
a little celery chopped very fine, or cel- 
ery seed, and a teaspoonful of onion 
juice ; rub your spoon with a clove of 
garhc, and mix the ingredients thor- 
oughly ; add a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice and dish. Pass and use as ordinary 
catsup. 



SAUCES 61 

Orated Cucumber Sauce 

Grate three or four large cucumbers; 
drain them on a sieve ; to this drained 
pulp add a half teaspoonful of salt, a dash 
of red pepper, a teaspoonful of onion 
juice, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and 
then stir in carefully two or three table- 
spoonfuls of very thick cream ; if you 
can whip the cream a little first, so much 
the better. Cream may also be added 
to the tomato. 

Chopped Celery Sauce 

Chop fine sufficient celery to make a 
half pint ; season it with a quarter of a 
teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of onion 
juice, a dash of pepper. Rub the spoon 
w'ith garlic, mix thoroughly, stir into it 
the yolk of an egg that has been beaten 
light with two tablespoonfuls of cream ; 
add a few drops of lemon juice or tar- 
ragon vmegar and serve. 

Cream Horseradish Sauce 

This is one of the most delightful 
sauces to serve with left-over meats, 
especially beef. Press from the vinegar 
four tablespoonfuls of horseradish, add a 
quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, and work 



62 LEFT OVERS 

in the yolk of an egg. Whip six table- 
spoonfuls of cream to a stiff froth, stir it 
gradually into the horseradish and dish 
at once. 



Pudding Sauces 

The simple method of making a pud- 
ding sauce is to add to a half cup of sugar, 
atablespoonful of flour ; mix thoroughly, 
and then add hastily a half pint of boil- 
ing water ; boil for a moment and pour 
while hot into one well-beaten Qgg, beat- 
ing all the while. This may now be 
seasoned with any flavoring, as orange, 
lemon or vanilla. 

To change the character of this 
sauce, a tablespoonful of butter may be 
added. Where butter enters largely into 
the composition of a pudding sauce, it is 
better that it should be beaten to a 
cream, the sugar added gradually, then 
the egg and last the liquor. Heat it 
over a double boiler just at serving time, 
or the froth will float on the surface 
and the liquid be rather dense at the 
bottom. 

Melted sugar with lemon juice and a 
little water is called sugar sauce. 



SALADS 63 



SALADS 

There comes a time during the week, 
even in careful housekeeping when there 
is an accumulation of little things, a few 
olives, a slice or two of beet, perhaps 
two or three pieces of cooked carrot, a 
cold potato, a tiny little bit of cold fish, 
or cold meats, and not more than a table- 
spoonful or two of aspic jelly ; these may 
all be utilized in a 



Russian Salad 

Chop or cut carefully the vegetables ; 
mix together, add two or three table- 
spoonfuls of toasted pifion nuts, and the 
meat and fish ; dish on lettuce leaves, or, 
if you have tomatoes, peel and take out 
the centres, and fill the salad into the 
tomatoes. Serve with French or mayon- 
naise dressing; garnish with blocks of 
aspic jelly. 



64 LEFT OVERS 



CEREALS 



Cold boiled rice left over may be 
mixed with a small quantity of meat, 
and used for stuffing tomatoes or egg 
plant ; or it may be re-heated or made 
into pudding, or added to the muffins for 
lunch, or added to the corn bread. 

A cup of oat meal or cracked wheat 
or wheatlet may also be added to the 
muffins or ordinary yeast or corn 
breads. These little additions increase 
the food value, make the mixture lighter, 
and save waste. 

Southern Rice Bread 

Separate two eggs, beat the yolks 
until hght, and add one cup (a half pint) 
of milk ; add a tablespoonful of melted 
butter, a half teaspoonful of salt, and 
one and a half cups of corn meal ; beat 
thoroughly, and stir in one cup of cold 
boiled rice ; add a teaspoonful of baking 
powder; beat for two or three minutes ; 
stir in the well-beaten whites of the eggs, 
and bake in a thin sheet in an ordinary 
baking pan. ' 



CEREALS 65 

Rice Muffins 

Separate two eggs ; add to the yolks 
one cup of milk and a cup and a half of 
white flour ; beat thoroughly, add a half 
teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of 
baking powder and one cup of cold boiled 
rice; stir in the well-beaten whites, and 
bake in gem pans in a quick oven twenty 
minutes. 

Rice Croquettes 

To make cold boiled rice into cro- 
quettes, the rice must be re-heated in a 
double boiler with a gill of milk and 
the yolk of an Qgg to each cup ; you may 
season with sugar and lemon or salt and 
pepper, and serve as a vegetable. Form 
into cylinder-shaped croquettes ; dip in 
egg and bread crumbs, and fry in smok- 
ing hot fat. 

Simple Rice Pudding 

Put into a double boiler one quart of 
milk ; allow it to cook for thirty min- 
utes ; then add two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, a grating of nutmeg, and one cup 
of cold boiled rice ; turn this into a baking 
pan, and bake in a quick oven thirty min- 
utes. Serve cold. Raisins may be added 
when it is put into the baking pan. 



66 LEFT OVERS 

Lemon Rice 

Into one cup of cold boiled rice stir 
one pint of milk ; beat the yolks of three 
eggs with a half cup of sugar together 
until light ; add to them the rice and 
milk ; add the grated yellow rind and 
the juice of one lemon. Turn this into 
a baking pan; bake in a moderately 
quick oven twenty to thirty minutes. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth, add three tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar, and beat again. Heap these 
over the pudding, dust thickly with pow- 
dered sugar ; return to the oven to slowly 
brown ; serve cold. 

Paradise Pudding 

Pare, core and grate three apples. 
Separate three eggs ; add to the yolks 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar ; beat until 
light ; add a grating of nutmeg and a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice ; stir in a half 
cup of cold boiled rice ; mix with this 
quickly the apples, and beat well ; add a 
half cup of milk ; turn into a baking dish, 
and bake for thirty minutes. Make a 
meringue as in preceding recipe, from the 
whites of the eggs ; heap it over the top, 



CEREALS 67 

and brown. This pudding maybe served 
warm or cold. 



Compote of Pineapple 

Throw a pint of boiHng water over 
one cup of cold boiled rice ; stir for a 
moment ; drain, and stand at the oven 
door. Have ready, picked apart, one 
small pineapple ; add to it a half cup of 
sugar ; heat quickly, stirring constantly. 
Arrange the rice in the centre of a round 
dish, making it into a mound, flat on 
top ; heap the pineapple neatly on this ; 
pour over the syrup, and send at once 
to the table. Small quantities of different 
kinds of fruits that have been left over 
may be blended and used in this way. 

\/ Monday Pudding 

Cut bits of whole wheat bread into 
dice. Use a half cup of any fruit that 
may have been left over, prunes, raisins, 
chopped dates or candied fruit. Grease 
an ordinary melon mold ; put a layer of 
the bread in the bottom, then a layer of 
the fruit, and so continue until you have 
the mold filled. Beat three eggs, without 
separating, with four tablespoonfuls of 



68 LEFT OVERS 

sugar ; add a pint of milk ; pour this care- 
fully over the bread ; let it stand for ten 
minutes ; then put the lid on the mold, 
and steam or boil continuously for one 
hour. Serve with lemon or orange sauce. 

Oat Meal fluffins 

The ordinary muffin recipes, which are 
always about alike, no matter what flour 
is used, may have added to them a cup of 
well cooked oat meal ; for instance, sepa- 
rate two eggs as for rice muffins ; add to 
the yolks a cup of milk ; then add one and 
a half cups of whole wheat flour; beat 
thoroughly ; add a teaspoonful of baking 
powder ; beat again ; add one cup of 
well cooked oat meal, or you may sub- 
stitute wheatlet or any of the breakfast 
cereals ; fold in the whites of the eggs, 
and bake in gem pans in a quick oven 
twenty to thirty minutes. 

Sandwiches 

Little bits of fruit, crisp pieces of 
celery, cold meats of all kinds, may be 
chopped, properly seasoned, and used for 
making fruit, vegetable and meat sand- 
wiches. 



VEGETABLES 69 



VEGETABLES 

String beans, cauliflower, carrots, 
beets, peas and even a cold boiled potato 
may all be cut into neat pieces, mixed 
together, and served on lettuce leaves, 
dressed with French dressing as a salad. 
One cold boiled beet may be used as a 
garnish for a potato salad. String beans, 
if you have sufficient quantity, may be 
served alone as a salad. 

Stuffed Egg Plant 

Throw a good-sized egg plant into a 
kettle of boiling water ; boil ten minutes ; 
when cold cut into halves and with a 
blunt knife scoop out the centre. Chop 
this scooped-out portion fine, mix with 
it an equal quantity of finely-chopped 
uncooked meat, add a grated onion, a 
clove of garlic mashed, a teaspoonful of 
salt, a little chopped parsley, if you have 
it, and a dash of pepper. Fill this into 
the Qgg plant shells, stand them in a 
baking pan, add a cup of stock and a 
tablespoonful of butter, bake slowly one 
hour, basting every ten minutes. 



70 LEFT OVERS 

Cucumbers 

Raw cucumbers are easily wilted, and 
are then unfit for servinsr. Soak them in 

O 

pure cold, unsalted water until serving 
time. Pass French dressing in a separate 
dish. In this way the " left-overs " may 
be placed in the refrigerator and used 
next day as an addition to the dinner 
salad. 

Left-Over Tomatoes 

A half cup of stewed tomatoes may be 
used with stock for brown tomato sauce, 
or for making a small dish of scalloped 
tomatoes, helping out at lunch when 
perhaps the family is less in number. 
The Italians boil down this half cup of 
tomatoes until it has the consistency of 
dough ; then press through a sieve, add 
a little salt, pack down into a jelly tum- 
bler and stand in the refrigerator to use 
as flavoring. A tablespoonful in a soup, 
or in an ordinary sauce, or mixed with 
the water for baked beans, or added to 
the stock sauce for spaghetti or maca- 
roni, adds greatly to the flavor as well 
as appearance. 



FRUITS 11 



FRUITS 



Small quantities of fruit that are not 
sufficiently sightly to put again on the 
table may be put aside and made into 
fruit pot-pie. All sorts of fruits may be 
blended. Put them into a saucepan, 
and to each pint of this fruit allow one 
quart of water and a palatable seasoning 
of sugar, and you may flavor it with a 
little grated lemon or orange rind ; 
bring to boiling point. During this 
time put one pint of flour into a bowl, 
add a half teaspconful of salt and a tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Beat one 
Qgg until light, add to it a half cup of 
milk, then add this to the flour ; there 
should be just enough to moisten and 
make a dough. Take this out on the 
board, knead lightly, roll out and cut 
into biscuits. Put these biscuits over 
the top of the fruit ; cover the kettle 
and cook slowly for fifteen minutes ; do 
not Hft the lid during- the cookingf. 
Serve hot with plain milk or cream, or 
with a hard sauce made from sugar and 
butter. 



72 LEFT OVERS 

Fruit Souffle 

Beat the whites of six eggs until light, 
but not dry ; add three tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar ; mix quickly ; line the 
bottom of the baking dish with any sort 
of fruit, such as chopped dates or figs, or 
left-over candied fruits or preserves. 
Heap over the whites of the eggs, dust 
thickly with powdered sugar, and bake 
in a hot oven for five minutes. Serve 
immediately. To give variety, where 
stale biscuits or bread, or sponge cake 
are left over, line the bottom of the dish 
with the stale bits ; pour over enough 
milk to moisten, put in a layer of fruit 
and the whites of the eggs as above. 

Plain White Cake 

Beat a quarter of a cup of butter to 
a cream ; add gradually one and a half 
cups of sugar. Sift two cups of flour 
with a teaspoonful of baking powder; 
measure a half pint of water ; add a little 
water and a little flour, and so continue 
until the ingredients are used ; beat thor- 
oughly, then stir in the well-beaten whites 
of five eggs. Bake in a loaf or layers. 
Put layers together with chopped fruit, 
soft custard, or a soft icing. 



MISCELLANEOUS 73 

Chicken Muffin Cases 

Boil together a half pint of water 
and two tablespoonfuis of butter, add 
hastily a half pint of sifted flour, stir 
over fire until a smooth dough is formed. 
Take from the fire and when cool, add 
one unbeaten whole egg ; beat, add 
another and so continue until four eggs 
have been added. Bake in gem pans 
until light and hollow, about a half hour. 
This quantity will make twelve. Cut a 
round from the top and fill the muffin 
with any creamed mixture. 

To Make Cocoanut Milk 

Cover one quart of grated cocoanut 
with one pint of boiling water. Stir 
and mash ; strain and press. The milk 
thus produced may be used for curries. 
Throw away the pulp. 



74 



INDEX 



INDEX 



Barbecue of Cold Beef 
Beauregard Eggs . 
Bechamel Sauce 
Beef — Cooked 

Barbecue of . 

Bresleau 

Croquettes 

Fritters 

Gobbits 

Hash, No. 2 

Minced on Toast . 

Potato Dumplings 

Ragout 

Salt 

Steak Pudding 
Beef — Uncooked . . . . . 

Brown Stew .... 

Cannelon . . . . . 

Hamburg Steaks . 

Kibbee ..... 

Timbale .... 

Bobotee 

Boudins ...... 

Bread 

and Butter Custard 

Croquettes . . . . . 

Little Puddings a la Grand Belle 
Muffins . . . . . 

Southern Rice 

Bresleau, Beef 

Broiled Potatoes .... 
Browning 



21 

45 
56 
16 
21 
16 

17 
20 

19 
22 
20 
18 
16 
21 
18 
12 
14 
14 
12 
12 
15 
24 
25 
40 
40 
41 
41 
42 
64 
16 
51 
58 



INDEX 



75 





PAGE 


Brown Sauce 


. 57 


Brown Stew .... 


14 


Brown Tomato Sauce 


. 57 


Cake, Plain White 


72 


Cannelon . . . . . 


. 14 


Casserole 


33 


Cereals ...... 


. . 64 


Compote of Pineapple 


. . 67 


Lemon Rice 


i 66 

. . / 67 

. /. 68 


Monday Pudding . 


Oat Meal Muffins 


Paradise Pudding . 


./ 66 

/ 


Rice Croquettes • 


. . 65 


Rice Muffins .' 


. . 65 


Sandwiches 


. 68 


Simple Rice Pudding 


. . 65 


Southern Rice Bread . 


. . 64 


Cheese 


52 


Balls 


. 53 


Duchess Soup . 


54 


Pudding , . . . 


• 54 


Souffle .... 


53 


Chicken— Cooked . 


• 32 


Casserole 


33 


Cutlets . . . . 


. . 36 


Supreme 


35 


Creamed Hash on Toast . 


. 32 


Indian Hash 


34 


Mock Terrapin, or ^ la Ne 


wburg . 34 


Chicken— Uncooked 


29 


Deviled Chicken Legs 


. 30 


English Chicken Balls . 


31 


Timbale . 


. 29 


Cliicken Muffin Cases . 


73 


Chopped Celery Sauce 


. 61 


Tomato Sauce 


60 


Cocoanut Milk, To make 


. 73 



76 



INDEX 



Cold Boiled Potatoes 

Broiled 

Hashed Brown 

Lyonnaise . 

au Gratin 

in Milk 

Scalloped 

Sweet Potatoes 
Cold Meat Sauces . 
Compote of Pineapple 
Cream Horseradish Sauce 
Creamed Hash on Toast 
Croquettes, Beef 
Bread 
Egg . 
Potato 
Rice 
Cucumbers . 
Curry Balls 
Curry of Mutton 
Custard, Bread and Butter 

Potato . 
Cutlets, Chicken 
Deviled Chicken Legs 
Duchess Soup 
Duck Bordelaise . 
Dumplings, Potato . 
Egg Plant, Stuffed 
Eggs .... 

Beauregard . 

Croquettes 

Whites of . 
English Cheese Balls 
English Drawn Butter 
Fritters, Beef . 
Fruits .... 
Souffle . 



PAGE 

49 

51 

49 
51 
49 
50 
50 

50 
60 

67 
61 
32 
17 
41 
45 
47 
65 
70 

23 
26 
40 
48 
36 
30 
54 
37 
18 

69 
43 
45 
45 
44 
31 
56 
20 

71 

72 



INDEX 



77 





PAGE 


Game 


. 39 


Gobbits 


19 


Grated Cucumber Sauce 


. 6i 


Hamburg Steaks .... 


12 


Hash, Creamed on Toast 


. 32 


Indian ..... 


34 


No. 2 . .... 


. 22 




49 


Hollandaise Sauce 


. . 56 


Indian Hash 


34 


Kibbee 


. 12 


Kitchen Bouquet 


59 


Klopps ...... 


. 25 


Left-Over Tomatoes .... 


70 


Lemon Rice 


. 66 


Little Puddings a la Grand Belle 


41 


Lyonnaise Potatoes 


. 51 


Meat 


9 


Minced Beef on Toast 


. 20 




34 


Monday Pudding .... 


. . 67 


Muffins, Bread 


42 


Oat Meal .... 


. 68 


Rice 


. 65 


Mushroom Sauce .... 


. 59 


Mutton— Cooked 


24 


Bobotee .... 


. 24 




25 


Currj' of . 


. 26 


Klopps 


25 


Pilau .... 


. 27 




28 


with Anchovy . 


. 26 


Mutton — Uncooked .... 


23 


Curry Balls 


. 23 


Oat Meal Muffins .... 


63 


Paradise Pudding .... 


. 66 



78 



INDEX 



Pilau of Mutton 
Plain White Cake 
Potatoes . 

Croquettes 
Custards . 
Puff 

Roses for Garnishing 
Stuffed . 
Potato Dumplings . 
Puddings, a la Grand Belle . 
Beef Steak 
Cheese 
Monday . 
Paradise 
Simple Rice 
Pudding Sauces . 
Ragout of Beef 
Rice Bread, Southern . 
Croquettes 
Muffins 

Pudding, Simple 
Roasted Beef Gravy . 
Roses for Garnishing, Potato 
Russian Salad 
Salads 

Mutton 
Russian 
Salt Beef 
Sandwiches 
Sauces 

Bechamel 
Browning 
Brown . 
Brown Tomato 
Chopped Celery 
Chopped Tomato 
Cold Meat . 



PAGE 
27 
72 
46 

47 

48 

47 
47 
46 
18 

41 
18 

54 
67 
66 

65 
62 
16 
64 
65 
65 
65 
58 
47 
63 
63 
28 

63 
21 
68 

55 
56 
58 
57 
57 
61 
60 
60 



List of Household Books 

Published by 
Arnold & Company 



Mrs.Rorer s Cook Book 

A Manual of Home Economies. By 
Mrs. S. T. Rorer, Principal of the Phila- 
delphia Cooking School, author of Canning 
and Preserving, Hot Weather Dishes, etc. 
i2mo, nearly 600 pages, with portrait of 
the author and elaborate index ; water-proof 
and grease-proof covers, $1.75. 

This is an eminently practical 
book. It embodies the experience 
and study of the author in all the 
years that she has been teaching 
and lecturing so successfully before 
the public. The book has become 
as famous as the author. It is a 
standard of excellence, in that it 
is full of the brightest things in 
cookery ; the recipes are absolutely 
reliable, and the general instruc- 
tions to housekeepers of the most 
helpful and necessary character. 



WDEX 



79 



Sauces, Cream Horseradish 

English Drawn Butter 

Grated Cucumber 

Hollandaise 

Kitchen Bouquet 

Mushroom 

Pudding 

Roasted Beef Gravy 

Supreme 

Tomato . 

White 
Scalloped Potatoes 
Simple Rice Pudding 
Souffle, Fruit 

Cheese 
Soup, Duchess 
Southern Rice Bread 
Stock . 
Stuffed Egg Plant . 

Potatoes . 
Supreme Sauce 
Sweet Potatoes 
Timbale of Chicken 
Timbale of Beef . 
Tomato Sauce 
Tomatoes, Left-Over 
Vegetables 

Cucumbers 
Left-Over Tomatoes 
Stuffed Egg Plant 
White Sauce .... 
Whites of Eggs , 



PAGB 
. 6l 

56 
. 61 

56 

. 59 

59 

. 62 

58 
. 56 

55 
. 55 

50 
. 65 

72 

. 53 

54 

. 64 

7 

. 69 

46 
. 56 

50 
. 29 

15 
. 55 

70 

. 69 
70 

. 70 
69 

• 55 
44 



Canning a7td Preserving 

By Mrs. S. T. Rorer, author of Mrs. 
Rorer's Cook Book, Hot Weather Dishes, 
etc. i2mo., with index, cloth covers, 
75 cents; paper covers, 40 cents. 

In this volume Mrs. Rorer dis- 
cusses at greater length than is 
allowed in the limits of her work 
on cooking in general, the canning 
and preserving of fruits and vege- 
tables, with the kindred subjects 
of marmalades, butters, fruit jellies 
and syrups, drying and pickling. 
As in her Cook Book, the recipes 
are clearly and simply given, 
while an exhaustive index affords 
easy reference to every subject. 

"A useful little volume for the 
preserving season. Mrs. Rorer's 
exhaustive information on the sub- 
jects of preserves, pickles, jellies, 
syrups, and canned goods gener- 
ally, is here placed at the service 
of the public in a cheap and 
convenient form . ' ' — Philadelphia 
Inquirer. 



Hot Weather Dishes 

By Mrs. S. T. Rorer, author of Mrs. 
Rorer's Cook Book, Canning and Preserv- 
ing, etc. i2mo., with index, cloth covers, 
75 cents; paper covers, 40 cents. 

Its name tells the whole story. 
It is the only book of the kind. 
Hot weather seems to suspend the 
inventive faculty of even the best 
housekeepers, and at a season 
when the appetite needs every 
help and encouragement this book 
will be found of the greatest use. 
Full of suggestions for tempting 
and dainty dishes, with recipes 
for presenting the substantials in 
palatable forms. Contains a com- 
plete index to all the recipes. 

" A seasonable and appetizing 
book, entitled Hot Weather 
Dishes, by Mrs. Rorer, has just 
been issued. It contains table 
recipes for summer use. Salads, 
vegetables, dishes of hot, or pre- 
viously prepared meats, piquant 
sauces, fruit omelets and summer 
desserts are particularly attract- 
ive." — Philadelphia Ledger^ 



Home Candy Making 

By Mrs. S. T. Rorer, author of Mrs. 
Rorer's Cook Book, Canning and Preserv- 
ing, etc. i2mo, with index, cloth covers, 
75 cents ; paper covers, 40 cents. 

A veritable book of sweets, 
full of choice recipes, with com- 
plete instructions for making the 
many delicacies that delight both 
young and old. It is the result 
of careful practice in teaching 
beginners how to make attractive, 
wholesome and palatable varieties 
of home-made candies. As a rule, 
these are made from uncooked 
sugar and white of tgg, and while 
they may be palatable to some 
persons, to the connoisseur they 
are coarse and heavy. The excel- 
lency of the recipes consists in 
their simplicity and faithfulness to 
minutiae. 

" The book is very simple in 
its explanations, very minute and 
full, and, all in all, by far the best 
working manual for home use of 
which we have any knowledge." — 
The Independent. 



New Salads 

For Dinners, Luncheons, Suppers and 
Receptions. With a group of Odd Salads 
and some Ceylon Salads. By Mrs. S. T. 
RoRER, author of Mrs. Rorer's Cook Book, 
Canning and Preserving, etc. Long i6mo, 
with index ; bound in salad-green cloth, 

50 cents. 

In this book are gathered 
toj![ether a choice lot of original 
recipes for the proper making 
and serving of this important 
dish. The salad is not alone for 
the epicure, nor is it to be looked 
upon merely as a tasty bit to 
enliven a meal. It should form 
a part of the daily cuisine in 
every family. Judging from the 
statements of the author, not 
enough attention is paid to this 
matter by the average house- 
keeper. Mrs. Rorer in her 
introduction says: 

" A salad made from a suc- 
culent green vegetable and French 
dressing, should be seen on the 
dinner table in every well-reg- 
ulated household three hundred 
and sixty- five times a year. 



Six Little Cookery Books 

By Mrs. S. T. Rorer. A set of charming 
and beautiful volumes, designed to meet the 
special wants of a numerous class of house- 
keepers who are given to entertaining, and 
are so often at loss to know what and how 
to prepare for their guests. 24mo, each 
volume bound in a separate color of beautiful 
linen cloth, stamped in gold ; sold separ- 
ately ; 25 cents per volume. 

During her extensive lecturing 
tours, Mrs. Rorer has received 
many requests from her friends 
and admirers to issue a set of 
books touching on the topics 
contained in the following vol- 
umes. Here is the first instalment ; 
more will follow on other subjects. 
The recipes given in each of these 
dainty little books are choice and 
rare, some of them coming from old 
family records. In her usual clear 
and concise style, Mrs. Rorer 
gives full directions as to the suc- 
cessful carrying out of each 
formula. They will be found a 
useful addition to the cookery lore 



of any housewife, and enable her 
to excel in many dainty repasts 
not possible without some such aid. 

Colonial Recipes 

How to Use a Chafing Dish 

Fifiteen New Ways for Oysters 

Twerity iluick Soups 

Sandwiches 

Dainties 



It is hard to conceive a more 
delectable feast of good things 
than is presented in the pages 
of these delightful books. Well 
printed from clear and distinct 
type, tastefully bound, compact in 
size, they appeal very forcibly to 
the artistic sense. When, in 
addition, we consider the excel- 
lent character of the contents, 
their freshness and pleasing 
variety, the reader is forced to 
admit that cookery has its charms. 



Cakes^ Cake Decorations 
and Desserts 

A Manual for Housewives. Simple and 
up to date. By Charles H. King. 
i2mo., illustrated by engravings of 
numerous decorated pieces, with a sil- 
houette chart for the guidance of the 
learner ; bound in cloth, stamped, ^1.50. 

Mrs. Rorer says of this book : 

" It has every virtue necessary 
for a home manual, is simple, 
plain and economical. The plates, 
so well described, will enable 
even an inexperienced person 
after a few trials to ice and 
decorate a cake, equal to an 
expert. Mr. King has covered 
the entire field of cake-baking, 
cake-decorating, sugar-boiling and 
sugar-spinning, with recipes for 
fine candies. The book con- 
tains twenty-one plates and many 
patterns. I know of no other 
book which covers this field, and 
advise those doing fancy work 
to secure its help." 



Household Accounts 

A simple method of recording the daily 
expenses of the family. Printed and 
ruled in excellent form, and bound in 
manilla boards, 25 cents. 

This is perhaps the best book 
of the kind ever introduced. With 
it there is an end to disputes 
with the butcher or groceryman on 
settling day. The book contains 
ruled pages, systematically and 
simply divided into spaces in 
which are kept the purchases for 
each day of milk, butter, eggs, 
meat, groceries, vegetables, etc. 
The daily expenses total up for 
the months, and the months for 
the year. There are other forms 
for recording expenses of help, 
light, heat and general house- 
hold expenditures in table and 
bed linens, china and kitchen 
utensils, etc. 

Mrs. Rorer says it is what 
every housekeeper ought to have. 
It is not only a satisfactory method 
of knowing the cost of maintain- 
ing the household, but it leads to 
a better economy in expenditure. 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 720 7 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



MHMMiiHa 



