TX 715 
.S196 
Copy 1 



1898 



an IRafael 

••• 

Cook Book 



Sfi 



COMPILED BY THE 



babies of San IRafael 



* 



San l?afael, 



-jk — m .— m--M -. w ^-. w - w . 



California 

COPYRIGHT, 18B8. 



Scbneifcer'e <3ot ']£m 



IMPORTED, DOMESTIC 
WD KEY WEST CIGARS 

Smoking and Chewing 
Tobaccos 

Smoker's Articles, Pocket Cutlery, Toilet I I 

Articles, Scissors, Fishing Tackle, Playing THE BEST TONSORIAL 
Cards, Stationery. Guitar, Violin ami ARTISTS IN TOWN 

Mandolin Strings. 

Children's Hair Catting a Specialty. 



Next to a Good Dinner 



be careful 
to get 



A small outlay when buying is 
better than a suit at court later 
on. A prudent business man 
always procures an Abstract of 
Title and examines it carefully 
before paying over his gold when 
purchasing real estate or loan- 
ing money and he always pat- 
ronizes the 



H (Soob 
Zitte 



fflarii) Qd. /Ibstraet Qo. 

San Rafael. 



Shade Trees 



Ornamental 

Trees 



Xaurel (Stove IRuteer^ 

H. SCHLUTER, Proprietor 
Gardens Planned and Laid Out. (je^era! f/urSCTV StOGr( 



Ferns and House Palms a Specialty 
All kinds of Bedding Plants . . 
Carnations, Roses, and Chrysanthe- 
mums, Fruit and Shade Trees 

bs, etc. Clematis and other 
climbing pL. 



Foot of B Street 



1kt>- 



> 



a 



y. 



San IRafael 

H 

••• 

Cook 3Book 



•$ 



COMPILED BY THE 



1898 



Xabiee of San IRafael 



♦ 



San IRafael, 



California 



A^ 



<> 



^ 



1.6397 

-The — 

MARIN 
JOURNAL 



VSTARTTSHm The leading . . . 

H&iAtfivisriiiiJ Republican newspaper 

IN 1861. of Slarin county - 

Fine 

Job Printing 

WALLLAGE CLARENCE BROWN . . . proprietor 



Preface. 



<$? 



'We may live without poetry, music, and art; 

We may live without conscience, and live without heart; 

We may live without friends; we may live without books; 

But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 

He may live without books, — what is knowledge but grieving-? 

He may live without hope, — what is hope but deceiving? 

He may live without love, — what is passion but pining? 

But where is the man that can live without dining?" 



f? 



4 ADVERTISEMENT. 

SAN RAFAEL & S. F. EXPRESS 

We transport our 

Furniture, Pianos. 
Baggage and Freight 

BY TEAM WITHOUT CHANGE 

In a SPECIAL CAR Jby broad gauge train between San Rafael and 

San Francisco. 
SanlRafael Office, | 

" 8i 9 FouRf h st.- ~ OSCAR FITCH, 

Telephone Black*!. bet.CoadD FRED H. CARROLL, 

S. F. Office, Proprietors. 

323 EAST ST. . . Telephone 496. 



San Rafael, Cal. 

Firstclass 



Family Boarding-House 

SIXTH ST., HEAD OF B. 

MRS. J. F. JORDAN, 

Beautiful View. Fine Grounds. Proprietress. 



KURTZ & MAYER S " W, &S?,, 

Specialty 

San Rafael 



French Bakery 
akd.. Confectionery.... 



Hotels, restaurants, and families PORNFR 

supplied at shortest notice . . . ^ 

All kinds of wedding cake made ^ £) AND SECOND STS. 
to order 



<f)read. * 



x x a ^rean. * x 



IRules for flDaftino 3Breao. 

Twice as much flour as wetting- is a good rule to follow, to avoid 
having the bread too stiff. By this rule, beat with a spoon for 20 
minutes, and let stand over night. In the morning add as little flour as 
possible to mold into loaves. 

For 4 large loaves, take 3 pints of liquid, (5 fresh milk and J potato 
water); in warm weather \ cake of yeast, and 3 quarts of flour, 1 table- 
spoon sugar, same of butter or lard, and salt. 

In cold weather more yeast is required. 

Bread is better when raised slowly. 

Bread should never fall, but be mixed before reaching this stage. 

Before putting into the oven, cut across the top 3 times; for a 
rich brown crust nothing equals melted butter, for brushing. The oven 
must be hot when the bread is put in, and after it is well browned a 
more moderate oven will do. Bake bread from J to 1 hour, according 
to size of loaf, and always in separate pans. 

POTATO YEAST.— Mrs. Geo. M. Dodge. 

Peel and grate 3 medium sized raw potatoes; pour 1 quart of 
boiling water over them, stirring well all the time. Let it stand on the 
back of the stove, and add 1 tablespoon sugar, and a little salt. 
"When luke-warm, add J a cup of baker's yeast or one cake of 
compressed yeast dissolved in £ cup water. Let it stand in a warm 
place in open stone jar until it ferments. Then cover and set away in 
a cool place, and it is ready for use. This yeast will keep 2 or 3 weeks 
in cool weather. 

TO MAKE YEAST WITHOUT LEAVEN.— Mrs. Geo. Bunn. 

In 2 quarts of water let 2 ounces of hops boil for \ hour; strain the 
liquid, and let it stand in a wide earthenware bowl. When luke-warm 
add a small quantity of salt — say j handful — and \ pound of sugar. 
Take some of the liquor, and well mix up in it J pound of the best flour, 
beating this up thoroughly in the whole afterwards. The next day but 
one, put in 1\ pounds of boiled and mashed potatoes; let it stand one 
more day, after which it may be bottled for use. It should be kept near 
the fire while making, so as to keep it about the temperature of new 
milk; and it should also be frequently stirred during the process of 
making. When bottled, it should be kept in a cool place. 



6 BREAD. 

SIMPLE MANNER OF MAKING GOOD BREAD.— Mrs. Wm. Alexander. 

\ cake of compressed yeast; 2 medium sized potatoes, with water in 
which they were boiled, about 1 quart; 1 tablespoon white sugar; 1 
tablespoon shortening. Mix the above at night in as much flour as is 
inquired to make a stiff dough; cover and let stand until morning. 
Knead well at night, "and also in the morning. Let it rise again in 
morning, before putting in pans. The water for bread, including potato 
water, should be 1 quart. The above will make 3 nice sized loaves. 

BREWERS' YEAST BREAD.— Mrs. W. J. Wickman. 

Take 1 quart brewers' yeast, put it in a pitcher and allow it to 
settle; pour off all but the sediment and add 1 quart of water, and 
allow it to settle again. Pour off the top again, and re-cover with 
another 1 quart of water, and allow it to settle. Again pour off the water 
and save the settlings. Into this put a small amount of sugar, about 
1 tablespoonful, or to taste; salt to taste, and 1 or li pints of water at 
blood heat. Stir this into the middle of about 2 quarts of flour. Mold 
well and allow to rise 1 or 1J hours; when light, mold into pans and 
bake 1 hour. . 

RYE BREAD.-1/cs. McMahon. 

Make a sponge of 1 quart warm water and £ cake of yeast; thicken 
with rye flour; set in warm place to rise. When light, add 2 cups of 
wheat flour, and then rye flour to make thick enough to mold: let 
rise, and bake about 1 hour in a moderate oven. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD.— Mrs. W. t\ Jones. 

1 pint of milk, 1 pint of water, both warm, 1 cup of syrup, 1 teaspoon 
of salt, 1 teacup of white flour, f of a cake of yeast in winter and h in 
■summer, and about 2 quarts of whole wheat flour. It should be a stiff 
batter; cover and let stand over night. In the morning, stir well and 
turn into 2 good sized bread pans without kneading. Bake when light 
from f of an hour to an hour in a moderate oven. 

CINNAMON BUNS.— Mrs. A. A. Curtis. 

Make a sponge of 1 pint of sweet milk, 1 heaping cup of lard. .1 
pint of yeast, h cup of sugar, 1 quart of flour; set at night. In the 
morning add 2 eggs beaten light, and salt; make up stiff as for bread. 
When light divide in two parts, roll out about an inch thick, and narrow; 
spread with the mixture, and roll as for jelly cake; cut in slices; lay in 
pan to rise again; bake 20 minutes. 

Mixture. — \ pound of butter, browned to a rich brown; when cool 
add enough sugar to absorb the butter, and about 2 tablespoons of 
water; add enough sugar to absorb both water and butter; flavor with 
cinnamon. 

RUSKS.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 pint of new milk, ] cup of sugar, 5 cup of butter, 2 eggs, 1 quart 

of flour. Cream the butter and sugar, beat the eggs well and add to 

them the tepid milk. Mix and add the sifted flour, beating well. Then 

dissolve 1 cake of yeast in a little tepid water or 1 cup of potato yeast, 



BREAD. 7 

and stir into the sponge. Put in a warm place until morning - . Then 
add enough flour to knead on the board and let rise again. When light 
make into round biscuit and drop in the center of a muffin ring, and 
when light bake a delicate brown. Before putting into the oven brush 
with melted butter. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS.— Mrs. W. J. Dickson. 

Boil 1 pint of milk with butter about the size of an egg. When cool 
add 1 teaspoon salt, \ cup yeast, and flour enough to make a thick 
batter; stir well. When light, knead fifteen minutes; roll out, cut with 
a large cutter, spread with butter, fold over, put in the pans, and when 
light, bake in a quick oven. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 coffee cup corn meal, 1 coffee cup graham, 1 coffee cup white flour, 
J coffee cup molasses, 2 coffee cups sour milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 heaping 
teaspoon soda and 1 of baking powder sifted with the white flour. 
Steam 3 hours in a funnel steamer. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD.— Mrs. E. A. Hartman. 

Made in a minute, and sure to be good; never fails! 1 cup of 
molasses, 2 cups of cold water, 2 teaspoons of soda, and mix. Stir this 
mixture into 2 cups of white flour and 2 cups of graham flour. Boil in 
pudding pail 3 hours. 

RAISED MUFFINS.— Mrs. Geo. M. Dodge. 

1 cup sweet milk scalded and a small piece of butter melted in it. 
Add to this enough flour for a stiff batter, a little salt, 1 tablespoon of 
sugar and J cup of yeast. Beat well and let it rise over night. In the 
morning beat in one egg and let it rise again in gem pans for about 20 
minutes,- Bake 15 minutes. 

WHOLE WHEAT MUFFINS.— Mrs. McMahon. 
Make batter of 1 pint sweet milk, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 of salt, 1 
tablespoon butter, 1- cup of yeast; add flour enough to make a thin 
batter; let rise When light, add 2 well-beaten eggs and \ teaspoon 
soda; let stand \ hour to rise. Bake in quick oven. 

- MUFFINS.— Mrs. W. F Jones. 
J cup of sweet milk, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon sugar, melted butter the 
size of an English walnut, salt, 1 teaspoon baking powder sifted with 1£ 
cups of flour. Bake quickly until a light brown. 

WAFFLES.— Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

2 eggs beaten separately, | cup of melted butter, 4 cups of flour, 2 
teaspoons of baking powder, milk sufficient to make a thin batter. 
3 tablespoonfuls to a medium sized waffle iron. Be sure and have the 
iron well greased on both sides and very hot. Excellent. 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Beat 2 eggs light, stir in 1 cup of boiled rice, 1 tablespoon sugar, \ 
teaspoon of salt, and 2 cups sour milk. Lastly sift in 1 cup of flour, 1 



8 BREAD. 

teaspoon soda and 1 teaspoon yeast powder. If a trifle too stiff, add a 
little milk ; or if too thin, add a little more flour. 

GRIDDLE CAKES.— Mrs. Daniel Bradford. 

1 pint of sour milk, 1 pint of flour, mix and let stand over night. 
In the morning add J teaspoon of soda and 2 eggs well beaten. Cook 
on hot griddle. 

CREAM BISCUIT.— Mrs. Daniel Bradford. 

2 cups of flour, £ cup of sweet cream, 2 teaspoons of baking powder 
sifted with the flour; salt; a little milk to make soft dough to roll out. 

DROP BISCUIT.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 quart of flour sifted with 3 heaping teaspoons baking powder, and 
1 teaspoon of salt. Rub in a piece of butter the size of an egg, and then 
stir in 1 pint of sweet milk. Drop from a spoon on buttered tins, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Sift 3 heaping teaspoons baking powder and a little salt with 1 quart 
of flour, and rub In £ cup of butter. Then wet with milk sufficient to 
roll. Cut in small biscuit, brush with melted butter, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

SALLY LUNN.— Mrs. Daniel Bradford. 

1 quart of flour and 2 teaspoons of baking powder well mixed, 3 
large spoons of sugar put in the flour, salt, J cup of cream, or butter size 
of an egg, 2 cups of milk, 2 eggs not beaten. All stirred together. 
This makes 2 cards. 

POPO VERS.— Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

Beat 2 eggs just enough to mix, add 1 cup milk and 2 level cups 
flour; beat 5 minutes; add 1 teaspoon salt and another cup of milk; be&£ 
10 minutes more and bake in quick oven. 

FAVORITES.— Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

1 J cups of milk, 1 cup of flour, 1 teaspoonful of butter, 2 eggs beaten 
separately; melt the butter and put into the milk and beaten yolks, a 
pinch of salt, whites well beaten put in last. Bake J hour in gem pans. 
CORN BREAD, OR JOHNNY CAKE.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 egg, 6. tablespoons corn meal, 3 tablespoons flour, 3 tablespoons 
sugar, 1 teaspoon of baking powder, and 1 teaspoon of soda sifted with 
the flour. A pinch of salt, J cup of sour cream, and \ cup sour milk. 
If you have no sour cream use 1 cup of sour milk and a heaping table- 
spoon melted butter. This can be made with sweet milk and 2 teaspoons 
of baking, powder, but it is not so nice. 

CALEDONIAS.— Mrs. Tharp. 

1 cup yellow cornmeal, 1} cups flour, 1 teaspoonful Royal baking 
powder, 1 tablespoonful lard, a little salt. Mix well, as you would for 
breakfast rolls. Then add 1 cup of half milk and half water. Mix into 



BREAD. 9 

a paste, and roll out thin, cutting into rather small rounds. Fry in 
boiling lard. Serve hot. Pull open and spread with butter. 
DEVILED HAM ROLLS.— Mrs. Tharp. 

Make light, rather rich pastry, roll thin and cut in squares of about 
4 inches. Spread upon each square a small quantity of deviled ham, 
leaving about £ inch around the edges uncovered. Moisten the edges 
with cold water, and roll each square compactly. Press ends together, 
brush over with white of egg, and bake. 

GRAHAM GEMS.— Miss H. Pregge. 

1 cup of sweet milk, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon sugar, a little salt, 3 tea- 
spoons of baking powder, and graham flour sufficient for a thin batter. 
CREAM TOAST.— Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

Put 2 pieces of buttered toast in a hot dish, boil f cup of milk, add 
J teaspoon of butter, season with a pinch of salt, and add sugar if liked. 
Mix the yolk of an egg with J cup of cream; add slowly the boiliug 
milk to the cream and yolk, stirring constantly. Pour over the toast. 



14 ADVERTISEMENT. 



Now you are through with your Bread, 

So before you get souped 
Go to Lorellard & Bratt's, 

Where you never get duped. 



TTh£tr ^ re ec I ua ^ *° tne Des t y° u can obtain in the City. Yon 

irsKrtt "\/t»*«if\K« no ^ on g er need to take the train and journey with 
"^ y v b es t gowns and children when you can step in at 

home while you are feeling bright, fresh, with hair nicely arranged and an 
expression of happiness, having all the attention and time desired irn 
arranging positions, etc. 

They will give you the very latest styles in carbon, platina or Gloss-. 

They make a specialty in residence and outdoor groups. 

Work done on short notice, and orders filled StUDlO 00(5 l s 2 
promptly, guaranteeing work that will not fade. jfOUttb St. 
Call and see samples. San Rafael- 



Orders Promptly Fourth St , near B, 

Attended to. San Rafael. 



oifnii 




BREAD AND FANCY genuine 

MILK AND 
CAKES. m RYE BREAD 



Ph. Voeel, 



Proprietor. 




IRules tor Stock. 

Put meat to cook in cold water; simmer slowly not less than 5 hours, 
skimming occasionally. 

A piece of liver is an addition ; or cooked meat or cooked bones will 
give the rich brown color without the use of burnt sugar. 
CARAMEL FOR COLORING SOUP. 

Melt 1 cup white sugar in a saucepan till it is dark; add slowly 1 cup 
of cold water, stirring briskly, and boil till it thickens. Keep in large 
mouthed bottle. 

TO CLEAR SOUP. 

When hot add the well-beaten white of an egg, and as the soup boils 
up, after stirring in the egg, skim well. 

All milk soups are improved by the addition of cream. 
BOUILLON.— Mrs L. A. Lancel 

Take from 4 to 5 pounds of beef, cover with cold water, add salt. 
When boiled, skim and add h teaspoon of black pepper, 2 carrots, 2; 
turnips, 2 leeks, celery and parsley; boil from 4 to 5 hours, strain, and 
set aside. When to be used, roast one good sized onion dry, in the- 
oven; stick whole cloves in it; put in the stock and boil 10 minutes. If 
liked, add half a glass of sherry. 

MARROWBALLS FOR SOUP.— Mrs W. F. Jones. 

Chop fine £ cup of marrow good and fresh, and rub with it 1 cup of 
flour and a saltspoon of salt. Wet with sufficient cold water to make- 
like pastry, and roll into tiny balls like small marbles. Drop into boiling 
soup, boil 15 to 20 minutes, and serve. 

OXTAIL SOUP.— Mrs. W Fraser. 

Chop an oxtail in slices and fry a nice brown in butter. Add 3 
quarts water, 1 carrot, a small piece turnip, 1 onion, 1 stick of celery. 
and a little salt and pepper. Let simmer 5 hours, strain' through 
colander, add a little rice, and leave in a few pieces of the oxtail. Let. 
simmer until rice is done, then serve. 

OXTAIL SOUP.— Miss H. Pregge. 

Separate the joints of 2 oxtails; put them into a frying pan with 
a, little butter and fry them nice and brown: add 1 onion and 1 carrot 



16 



SOUP. 



and fry brown also. Then put all into a soup kettle with about 3 quarts 
of water, let it simmer slowly, add a few cloves and a blade of mace r 
also a little barley, and cook well. If desired add a little sherry wine 
just before sending to the table. 

CREAM OF BARLEY SOUP.— Mrs. E. W. Newhall. 

lj pints strong chicken broth or stock, \ cup barley, 1 cup cream, 
yolks of 4 eggs; flavor with celery, lemon or onion. Wash the barley 
thoroughly, and cook slowly until soft enough to rub through a sieve. 
Put it into the strained chicken broth, and cook half an hour. Then 
add the yolks of 4 eggs, well beaten. Be sure and pour the broth on to 
the eggs, not the eggs into the broth. Lastly add one cup of cream. 
Do not boil after the cream is added. If too thick, add a little hot milk 
to the right consistency, and salt to taste. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP.— Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

This receipt is also good for cauliflower, potato, or asparagus. If 
you have roast beef bones left from the day before, break them up and 
put on to boil with soup greens and a head of celery. (If you have no 
bones, and do not wish to buy fresh soup meat, water alone will do, but 
it will not be as savory. ) Add some young onions, 5 or 6, a tablespoon 
•of butter, and some flour dissolved in water until smooth, and when 
the soup is boiling add the flour, salt, pepper, a little mace, and the 
top slice of a lime for a few minutes only, as it will make the soup bitter 
if left longer. For potato soup, leave out the mace and lime, but 
add a pinch of allspice instead. After the celery is quite soft, 
strain it through a fine sieve, add a gill of cream thinned out in as much 
milk, and the yolk of 1 egg, all beaten and allowed to come to a boil. 
Serve with fried bread cut in slices. For asparagus or cauliflower, 
<-ut off the heads and boil only the stalks before straining, as they have 
to be all mashed through the strainer; then put in the heads and flower, 
and let boil in the soup until tender. 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Fry 1 cup of rice in 1 tablespoon of butter until the rice turns white, 
then add 2 quarts of boiling milk, and cook slowly, stirring occasionally 
xmtll done. Pass through a fine wire sieve by mashing with a spoon. 
Season with salt and grated nutmeg; or instead of the nutmeg, cut up a 
small onion, and fry with the rice. Add 1 cup of cream just in time to 
warm but not boil, before serving. Lastly, add squares of bread fried 
in butter. Part stock or chicken broth may be used instead of all milk. 
If too thick, thin with milk to the light consistency. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP.— Mrs. Herbert Kellogg. 

Have a good stock. Boil 1 quart of dark beans in water until 
tender, and mash through colander. Add a pinch of cloves, allspice 
and black peppers bruised and tied in a cloth; add the stock. Chop 3 
bard boiled eggs and place in the tureen; pour the soup over, and add i 
glass of sherry at the last. Salt to taste. 



SOUP. 17 

BLACK BEAN SOUP.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

2 cups of black beans boiled until tender. Mash through a colander, 
and add to 1 quart of rich stock; when hot, strain through a sieve; 
season with allspice, cloves, pepper and salt. Just before serving, add 
a cup of cream. This is far more delicate than where pork is used. 
Fry squares of bread in butter until they are a rich brown, and add last. 

WHITE BEAN SOUP.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Put 1 cup of white pea beans to cook, and when tender mash 
through a colander and add milk until of the right consistency. Season 
with salt and pepper; and thyme fresh from the garden is preferable to 
the powdered. Tablespoon of butter and 1 cup of cream. Serve with 
squares of bread fried brown in butter. 

ONION SOUP (JOE TILDEN'S. )—Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson 

4 large onions cut up, 6 ounces butter, salt, cayenne, stock and milk, 
yolks of 4 eggs, J loaf of French bread cut in very thin slices and dried, 
and 2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese. Slowly stew the onions 
in the butter for 1 hour, stirring frequently and being careful not to 
burn. Add salt, pepper, cayenne, and stock, and cook one hour; add 
J as much milk as stock. Have in the tureen the bread and cheese; 
beat up the eggs and mix with them a ladleful of the soup. Pour this 
on the bread, cover close for five minutes, let stand, add the rest of the 
soup, and serve at once. 

PUREE OF PEAS.— Mrs. McMahon. 

1 quart fresh peas, 2 cups boiling milk, 1 small minced onion, 2 
tablespoons butter rubbed up with 1 of flour; pepper and salt, handful 
of dry bread crumbs, 1 cup of boiling water. Put peas and onions over 
the fire with the hot water; boil half an hour; strain and rub through 
a sieve, working peas to a pulp. Meanwhile boil milk, butter, and flour, 
also pepper and salt; stir in bread crumbs, and one minute later the 
thickened milk. Serve at once. 

TOMATO BISQUE.— Mrs. Geo. Bunn. 

1 quart cooked tomatoes, 2 quarts sweet milk, 1 level teaspoon 
cornstarch, salt, butter, paprika or white pepper, 1 teaspoon soda. 
Strain the tomatoes and put on to heat; when boiling put in soda, then 
add the hot milk, sugar, salt, pepper, and butter. Cook the cornstarch 
in milk before adding to tomatoes, to prevent curdling. Some prefer a 
little sugar added. 1 cup of cream is an improvement. 

CLAM CHOWDER.— Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

In the kettle in which the chowder is to be made fry several slices 
of salt pork. When nice and brown remove, and in the gravy put 4 
large potatoes and 4 onions which have been chopped; season with salt 
and pepper, add from 1 quart to 3 pints of water, and boil half an 
hour. Take 1 quart of clams or 1 can, and after cutting off the black 



18 soup. 

heads, chop and put them with the broth into the kettle about 10 
minutes before taking- up. When ready to serve, add pilot bread 
broken in small pieces. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Remove the corn from 1 can; cover with 3 cups of water; simmer 
for one hour; press through a sieve. Scald 3 cups of milk; add the 
corn and 1 tablespoon of butter well mixed with 1 tablespoon of 
flour. Cook until smooth, season with salt and pepper, add ^ cup of 
cream and stir until heated. Take from the fire, add 1 beaten egg, 
and serve at once. The egg or cream may be omitted, but the soup is 
far more delicious with the addition of both. The corn from twelve 
ears equals one can. 



22 



'ADVERTISEMENTS. 



The Best. 

SUGAR CURED, 
HICKORY SMOKED 

The mast dslicate] in ^flavor, and 
most economical in cut .... 
Ask your grocer for them . 

DodgeJjSweeney n . „_ . 

& Co |B Distributing Agents 




Orders Promptly 

Attended To. 



Telephone 

Red 15 



MARIN CENTRAL 
- BAKERY - 

and • • • • Confectionery 



Genuine 
Milk and Rye 

BREAD, 
and FANCY CAKES 



F, RIEDE, Proprietor 

FOURTH ST. 



near 
Petaluma ave 



San Rafael. 



S, HERZOG & CO. 



M. Blumenthal 
S. Herzog. 



Dealers in all kinds of 



JSC Fresh and Salt Meats 



wholesale and retail 



BEEF, VEAL, LAMB, NEW SAN RAFAEL 

MUTTON, HAM, A All Kinds of MARKET 

BACON, A: TONGUES, Vegetables D c^ncc- M ... 
SMOKED BEEF B STREET, Near 4th. 



x pish, and %\[t\\ pish- * 



BOILED FISH.— Mrs. L. A. Lancel. 
(To be served cold.) 

Put into the fish kettle enough water to cover the fish; add 1 large 
onion, small piece of garlic, 1 dozen cloves, 1 dozen allspice, 4 laurel 
leaves, 2 carrots, celery, i cup of vinegar: cover tight, and boil \ hour. 
Have the fish ready. Any fish of from 4 to 5 pounds will take from 15 
to 20 minutes. When done, serve cold. 

Sauce for same. — Make a mayonnaise; add a small piece of 
garlic; let it stand about one hour. Chop cucumbers fine. When 
ready to serve, add pepper, salt, juice of lemon, and lastly the chopped 
cucumbers. If necessary, thin with cream. 

TARTAR SAUCE FOR BROILED FISH.— Mrs. R. E. Neil. 

2 tablespoons of mayonnaise, 2 tablespoons chopped capei's, J onion 
gi'ated. Mix 1 hour before using. 

DRESSING FOR BOILED FISH.— Mrs. R. E. Neil. 

6 raw tomatoes or i can; strain through a colander; add 3 
tablespoons chopped capers, 1 large pickled cucumber, and 1 pickled 
onion chopped very fine with the capers, 4 tablespoons tomato catsup, a 
dash of cayenne, 1 teaspoon of salt, and 1 cup of stock. Simmer 10 
minutes, and pour over boiled fish. 

TURBOT A LA CREME.— Mrs. E. R. Donohoe. 

Put } pound of flour in a saucepan, mix it gently with 1 quart of 
milk, and be careful that it is not lumpy; then tie up together 2 small 
onions, a bunch of parsley or sprig of thyme, for if put in loose they 
will discolor the sauce, which must be white; add a little grated nutmeg, 
1 teaspoonful of salt, \ teaspoonful of pepper; place it on a sharp fire, 
and stir it all the time; boil it until it forms a thickish paste; take it off 
the fire and add h pound of butter rather fresh, 2 yolks of eggs; mix 
them well into the sauce, and pass through a sieve; pour some of it into 
a dish which must be well buttered, then a layer of fresh codfish which 
should be already boiled and pulled to pieces to form small flakes; season 
it highly with pepper and salt, add more sauce, then the fish until it is 
all mixed up; sprinkle the top with bread crumbs and grated Parmesan 
cheese. Put it into a moderate oven for I hour, to give it a light brown 
color. 



24 FISH AND SHELL FISH. 

HOW TO PREPARE TERRAPIN.— Mrs. A. W. Foster. 

Throw live terrapin into boiling water; after boiling fifteen minutes 
remove and take off black outside skin from the shell, the skin and nails 
from the claws; replace them in water a little salted, and cook until 
under shell cracks or feels soft to the touch. Remove the under shell 
carefully over a bowl, take out the sand-bag, remove head, gall-bag 
from the liver, and meat from upper shell. 

TERRAPIN A LA BALTIMORE.— Mrs. A. W. Foster. 

Place the meat, cloves, and eggs if any, of two terrapin in a 
saucepan; add a dash of cayenne, white pepper, a grating of nutmeg, 
small saltspoon of ground cloves, a wine glass of Madeira or sherry. 
Cook five minutes and put away to cool for future use. Place in a 
saucepan a cup of good stock, add a glass of Madeira. Blend h cup of 
butter with 2 tablespoons of flour; add this to the gravy, with a piece 
of lemon. Put in the terrapin, and heat. Have ready the yolks of '6 
hard boiled eggs mashed fine; beat and mix gradually with the ten-apin. 
The whites of the eggs can be chopped fine and added. 

Terrapin a la Maryland differs only in substituting cream for stock. 
The cream is warmed and added gradually to the eggs at the las 
minute, and not allowed to boil. Epicures prefer stock to cream. 

TERRAPIN STEW.— Mrs. W. B. Bradford. 

Boil according to size 30 or 40 minutes, so that the upper shell will 
separate from the. lower easily. Take gall-bag from liver, which is 
always found on the right lobe; avoid breaking, as it would give a bitter 
taste and spoil the dish. Strip the skin from the claws, cut off the nails 
and skin the head. Throw nothing away but the gall-bag. Cut all in 
small pieces and stew all slowly in sherry wine, with a good supply or 
butter and red pepper, for H hours, keeping closely covered all the 
time. Salt to taste. If they have no eggs in them, add two hard 
boiled hens' eggs to each terrapin just before the stew is done. Add a 
little flour rubbed in butter, just before taking from the fire. Place 
crispy toast on platter. Serve with baked potatoes and celery. 

SARDINES AND ANCHOVY SAUCE.— Mrs. Geo. Boyd. 

Put piece of butter size of an egg into saucepan; when melted, stir 
in the yolks of 2 eggs, a salt spoon cayenne, and 2 tablespoons anchovy 
sauce. Add a tablespoon of weak sherry (don't cook on a hot fire). 
Pour this sauce over the sardines which have been laid on toast with 
sardine oil poured over them, and thoroughly heated in oven. 
DEVILED CLAMS, NO. 1.— Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

Chop fine 25 clams; cook for 20 minutes in a double boiler; drain 
and save the liquor. Rub 2 tablespoons of flour and 1 of butter 
together, and add to the liquor; when boiling, add the beaten yolks of 
two eggs, a dash of red pepper, a tablespoon each of chopped onions 
and parsley, and the clams. Mix and fill into shells; dust with crumbs, 
and brown in a quick oven. 



FISH AND SHELL FISH. 25 

DEVILED CLAMS, NO. 2.— Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

Chop 50 clams very fine; take 2 tomatoes and 1 onion chopper 
equally fine, a little parsley, thymo and sweet marjoram, a little salt and 
pepper, and i cup of bread crumbs; add the juice of the clams till it is 
of the consistency of sausage; put in shells with lump of butter on each; 
cover with bread crumbs and bake \ hour. 

ESCALOPED CLAMS.— Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

Wash clean 100 clams; use only the soft part and the string part 
chopped fine; put a layer in the bottom of a buttered baking- dish 
season with salt, pepper, cayenne and a little mace; sprinkle on plenty 
of stale bread crumbs and a quantity of bits of butter; repeat the layer 
until the dish is full; put plenty of butter on top, and pour in a cup of 
the water from the clams; bake in a moderate oven for one hour, and 
when half done, pour in a good glass of sherry. 

CLAM CHOWDER.-#rs. IF. F. Jones. 

Fry i pound of salt pork cut in small bits and 1 large sliced onion 
together, until brown. Chop the necks of the clams, and add to the 
mixture, also the clams and juice, and 3 or 4 potatoes cut like dice: let 
all simmer together about i hour. Season with salt and pepper, and 
thicken with a teaspoon of corn starch. This is too thick to serve as 
soup but takes the place of a fish course. If one prefers this in soup 
add 1 quart of milk, and serve as such. 

OYSTERS AND MUSHROOMS.— Dr. C. B. Brown, S. F. 

1 tablespoon butter and 1 tablespoon of flour cooked together; mid 
J cup of mushroom liquor; when thick, add 1 quart oysters and 1 cup 
of mushrooms, 2 eggs beaten light, 1 teaspoon salt, and a dash of 
cayenne. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL.— Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 

100 California oysters, 3 tablespoons of unsweetened tomato catsup. 
4 tablespoons oyster liquor, 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, juice of 1 
large lemon, 1 dash of tobasco, salt to taste; mix well, and place on ice 
1 hour. 

CREAMED OYSTERS.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Melt a lump of butter the size of an egg in a sauce pan. Stir into 
it a heaping tablespoon of flour. Let this cook but not brown, and then 
add 1 lai'ge cup of rich cream previously warmed, a dash of cayenne, 
about 1 level teaspoon of salt, and a little Worcestershire sauce. This 
is for 3 dozen large oysters. When smooth, skim the oysters from the 
pan in which they have been heating, and add to the cream. Let them 
puff up, and when the edges curl they are done. Add a little of the 
oyster juice to thin the mixture, according to judgment and taste. 
TOASTED ANGELS.— Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

Wrap a large oyster in a very thin slice of bacon or fat salt pork, 
putting on the oyster a little cayenne and 2 drops of lime juice; fasten 



26 FISH AND SHELL FISH. 

with a string-, or pin the bacon with a wooden toothpick; broil till the 
bacon is crisp, and serve very hot on squares of buttered toast. 

OYSTERS COOKED WITH RICE.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Wash carefully 2 cups of rice and put it on to cook with the strained 
juice from a quart of fresh oysters, salt, and enough water to cook it 
until tender. When tender add J cup of butter and the beaten yolks 
of two eggs. Remove from the fire, and when a little cool stir in the 
well-beaten whites; turn into a buttered baking dish, smooth over the 
top. and then with the back of a spoon make dents deep enough to hold 
an oyster; then close together. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, J cup cracker 
crumbs, and small pieces of butter added last. Brown in oven quickly. 
Canned oysters can be used. 

FANCY ROAST OYSTERS.— Mrs. Sidney dishing. 

Put 1 tablespoon of butter in saucepan, add h saltspoon white 
pepper, 1 teaspoon salt, a little cayenne, 2 tablespoons tomato catsup. 
When hot, add 1 pint of oysters, and cook until plump and the edges 
curl; serve on toast. Can be cooked in chafing dish. 

SHRIMPS ON TOAST.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 cup of rich cream to 1 pound of picked shrimps; salt, and a dash 
■of cayenne. Cook all together and serve on buttered toast. A few 
'drops of Woi'cestershire is an improvement. 

SHRIMPS AND TOMATOES.— Mrs. McMahon. 

I large tablespoon butter and 1 tablespoon flour, browned together. 
Scrape in a little onion, 3 or 4 cloves, and a few drops of Worcestershire 
sauce. To this add a can of tomatoes strained, or an equal amount of 
fresh cooked ones, 1 pound of picked shrimps, a small wine glass of 
white wine, add a teacup of sweet cream with a pinch of soda in it. 
Cook all together 20 minutes. 

CREAMED CRAB OR SHRIMPS.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 large picked crab or 1 pint of picked shrimps, 1 cup of cream, £ 
imp of milk, 1 heaping tablespoon flour, 1 teaspoon salt, dash of cayenne, 
1 tablespoon butter, and a few drops of Worcestershire if desirable. 
Put the cream on the stove with the crab or shrimps in it. Stir the 
flour into the milk and add when the cream is hot; then the other- 
ingredients, and when well cooked put into seven individual shells; 
roll one cracker to dust over the top, and put some butter in center. 
Bake until brown. The shells can be filled the day before they are 
baked, if kept in a cool place. 

STEWED CRAB.— Mrs. Geo. Boyd. 

Take 6 cups water; a bouquet composed of 1 sprig thyme, 1 sprig 
celery, a little parsley, and 1 bay leaf; a little whole mace, 1 onion 
chopped fine, a lemon sliced, and 1 green pepper; boil at least 1 hour. 
Strain; add 2 raw eggs well beaten, let it boil; then put in half a pound 
of butter creamed, and enough flour for thickening, a tablespoon of 
powdered mace, some chopped parsley, and cayenne pepper to taste. 



FISH AND SHELL FISH. 27 

Have the crabs boiled half an hour; cut in pieces, leaving- the shells on 
excepting the back, saving the water which must be added to the gravy. 
Put in the crabs and cook for half an hour in a double kettle. This is 
nice also for soft shell crabs. 

DEVILED CRAB.— Mrs. Oge. 
Clean and shred a crab; add to it 3 tablespoons melted butter, h cup 
of clear soup stock, salt, a little red and black pepper, the crumbs from 
the inside of a milk loaf, using no crust, and 3 tablespoons of thick, 
sweet ci'eam. Put all in shells and bake until a light brown, for about 
20 minutes. 

CRAB CHOPS.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Boil 2 crabs and pick in small pieces. Melt one tablespoon of butter 
and stir into it 1 tablespoon of flour; when well mixed, add 1 cup of hot 
water. This gravy must be good and thick. Stir in the crab, add 1 
beaten egg, h a lemon, a dash of cayenne, and salt to taste. Place it on 
a board in the foi'm of a square and about \ of an inch thick. Put in 
a cool place or leave until next day; then divide your square into smaller 
squares, and cut each small square into two pieces from corner to corner; 
each piece should be about the size of a small lamb chop. Roll in egg 
and cracker crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Place around the edge of 
platter, and in the pointed end of each piece insert the sharp claw of 
the ci*ab, leaving the large end showing to look like a chop bone. 

Sauce for same. — Cook 1 quart of tomatoes until thick, season 
with butter, salt, and a dash of cayenne. Pour in the center of platter. 
CRAB FRICASSEE.— Mrs. Jas. Oliver, 
1 crab, \ pint milk, \ tablespoon mustai'd, piece butter, season with 
salt and pepper; mix well, and let it come to a boil. Then stir in crab 
and beaten yolk of an egg. Put into a dish sprinkled with cracker 
crumbs and bits of butter. 

CRAB CREOLE.— Mrs. Sidney dishing. 
(Chafing dish.) 
Rub a stewpan with a piece of garlic; then put in 2 ounces of butter, 
3 green onions, and 2 green peppers chopped fine; add salt, pepper, and 
cayenne, and stew slowly 10 minutes. Then add 1 large tomato without 
the. skin, cut in' small pieces; stew this until the tomato is dissolved; 
also add a teaspoon of flour and good cream enough to make thick as 
drawn-butter; add a picked crab, and serve on buttered toast. 
CRAB STEW.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Pick one crab to pieces, and add 1 cup of milk, a dash of cayenne, 
salt, and a heaping teaspoon of flour stirred into a little cold milk ; also 
1 tablespoon butter and 2 eggs. Pour into the center of a platter, and 
make a border of 1 cup of boiled rice that has been cooked in milk to 
which a good spoonful of butter was added. 

LOBSTER CUTLETS. -.-Mrs. W. B. Noble. 
Boil 1 large lobster for 30 minutes; remove the meat, and chop it 
rather fine. Put a half pint of milk on to boil. Rub together 1 large 



28 FISH AND SHELL FISH. 

tablespoon of butter, and 3 rounding tablespoons of flour, and stir into* 
the milk when boiling; stir, and cook until this forms a thick paste, 
then add the slightly beaten yolks of two eggs; take from the fire, and 
add 2 cups of the chopped lobster, a tablespoon of chopped parsley, 5 
teaspoon of onion juice, J of a nutmeg grated, J teaspoon of white 
pepper, and a palatable seasoning of salt and cayenne; mix, and turn 
out to cool. When cold form into chops about the size and shape of a' 
French mutton chop; dip first in beaten egg, and then in bread crumbs, 
and fry in smoking hot fat. When done, drain on brown paper; stick 
a claw of the lobster in the end of the chop to represent the mutton 
bone. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBERG.— Mrs. E. W. Newhall. 

Cut the best part of a lobster into small pieces. Rub the creamy 
fat through a sieve, and stir into this 1 teaspoon of butter blended with 
2 teaspoons of flour. Put into a hot dish 1 tablespoon of butter; when 
it creams, season with salt, pepper, and a speck of cayenne, and add 5 
cup of sherry; pour this over the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs; return to 
fire, and add gradually 1 cup of cream; pour this over the creamy fat, 
and cook a few minutes; add the pieces of lobster which must be 
seasoned with salt, pepper, and a squeeze of lemon juice; and cook ^10 
minutes. 

LOBSTER A LA MARYLAND.— Dr. C. B. Brown, S. F. 

To a pint of cream just at the boiling point add 4 lobsters (or craw- 
fish) cut in small pieces and seasoned with salt, pepper, and a pinch of red 
pepper. Add the well-beaten yolks of 4 eggs, 1 tablespoon of flour 
mixed with water to a paste, and a large wine glass of sherry. Serve 
very hot. This is a fine chafing dish recipe. 

GARNISH FOR FISH.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Cut lemons in halves, and remove all the pulp and juice. Whip 
butter to a cream, add lemon juice (not enough to curdle the butter), 
a little chopped parsley and a dash of cayenne. Place around your 
platter, alternating with sprigs of parsley. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 33 



©. M. flfeavtens & Co. 8nMM ^ c 



Cal. 



(3rocers 



Teas, coffees, <3rain, proouce, Deaetables, 

and Spices 

a specialty. tfresb ffisb ano ©asters . . . 



tfourtb St., cor. S>. Forei £" ?i 



Domestic Fruits. 



TELEPHONE NO. 82. 



mil. 1R. Hnbevson 



GENERAL 
MARKETING C 

and • • tf ine Groceries. 
a: 

COR. B AND THIRD STREET, San Rafael, 



5. 1kell£ . . . 



Orders promptly 

Attended to. 



Wholesale and Retail 
Dealer in 

MARIN CO. MARKET jjTUllS HI 10 

and Mn* 8 R block. ^ eGC tables 

Fourth St. bet. A and B. 
TELEPHONE BLACK 51. SAN RAFAEL. 



j^eafs, {ViItTj), Gan)e 



and Meats Rechauffe. 



IRules for GoofeinQ /IDeats. 

Put all salt meats to cook in cold water; all fresh meats, excepting- 
for soups, into hot water, then cook slowly. 

All roast meats, excepting veal, are put dry into a very hot oven; 
veal requiring" a little more moisture. When well browned, add hot 
water; and when about half done, salt. Never salt meat until partially 
cooked. 

Rare meat requires about 15 minutes to the pound. 

Baste all roasts frequently. 

Roast beef requires a hotter oven than any other meat. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
To be eaten with roast beef. I cup of flour, 1 egg, 1 cup of 
milk, 1 teaspoon of salt. Have the pan quite hot in which is some of 
the roast dripping; pour in the pudding, and bake in a quick oven. 
This is preferable to the old way of raising the roast and baking the 
pudding underneath. 

FILLET OP BEEP A LA ROSSINI.— Mrs. W. F. C Hassan. 

Braise a larded fillet with what vegetables are in season; moisten 
while cooking, with a bottle of good claret, some say sherry. When 
done, glaze and dish it up garnished with macaroni prepared as follows: 
Boil I pound of macaroni cut in 3 inch lengths; put in a stew pan with 
some sliced mushrooms, \ pint good stock, 3 ounces grated Parmesan 
cheese, and a pat of butter; soason with salt and pepper; toss over the 
fire till well mixed, and serve around the beef. Pour over the beef the 
gravy from the pan, with the vegetables strained out. 

FILLET OF BEEF WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE. 
— Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

The fillet is the tenderloin of beef. Have the butcher prepare and 
lard it with strips of salt pork ready for the oven; pepper, and spread 
thickly with butter; add a little salt to \ cup boiling water, and pour 
into the pan. Bake in a quick oven 30 or 40 minutes, basting 4 or 5 
times. 

Mushroom Sauce. — 1 can of French mushrooms, 1 cup of stock, 
1 cup of cream, 2 tablespoons flour, 2 tablespoons butter; salt and 
pepper to taste. Melt the butter, add the flour, stir until a dark brown, 
then gradually add the stock; when this boils up, add the liquor from 



MEATS, POULTRY AND GAME. 35 

the mushrooms; season and simmer 20 minutes; add the mushrooms 
and let cook 5 minutes more, then add the cream; let it boil up and 
remove immediately. Pour it around the fillet and serve. 

BEEFSTEAK AND MUSHROOMS.— Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

Put into a saucepan 1 ounce of butter, a small onion chopped fine, 
a little ground sage and thyme, and place over the fire. When hot, 
shake in 2 tablespoons flour, and when it becomes brown, put in 1 gill of 
water and let it boil for h hour; then add 3 tablespoons of beef stock, 
a little suet and a little nutmeg. Put in 1 can of mushrooms; let it boil 
for 10 minutes; and pour over a nicely broiled beefsteak. 
BEEFSTEAK ROLL.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Take a slice of round steak, not too thick, and spread it with a 
dressing made of 1 cup of bread crumbs, 1 small onion chopped fine, 1 
tablespoon of butter, seasoned with salt, pepper, and sage. Wet with 
a little cold water. Roll up the steak and tie securely, especially at the 
ends. Fry a couple of slices of salt pork in a pan, and in this brown the 
roll thoroughly. Pour hot water over it, cover tightly, and cook slowly 
for 2 hours. Then add thickening and seasoning. This is not so dry as 
when baked. Heart is also better cooked this way than baked. Cook 
the onion in a little butter and water before putting it into the dressing. 
PIGS IN BLANKETS.— Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

Cut a round steak into 4-inch squares; place on each square a thin 
slice of bacon, a clove, and a small bay leaf; add pepper and salt; roll 
up and skewer; put some butter in the bottom of a stewpan with a little 
minced onion; place the pigs in this, and fry brown; then add just 
enough water to stew; keep adding boiling water as it is needed, having- 
enough gravy at the last to thicken and pour over them. 

CURRY.— .4. E. Menzies. 

Brown onion and apple; for a good dish of meat take 2 onions and 3 
or 4 apples. Chop the apple, slice the onion; take these out of frying- 
pan, after being browned, and if fresh meat is used, brown it. Take 1 
tablespoon of flour, 1 dessertspoon of curry powder; mix smoothly with 
milk; add to the rest of the ingTedients with a large cup of milk. Stew 
in a saucepan for 2 hours, cooking 'very slowly, stirring now and then. 
A few cold string beans, or peas that have been cooked, are an improve- 
ment; also a little sweet pickle. 

PEPPER STEW.— Mrs. Herbert Kellogg. 

Put 3 onions into beef dripping, and cook moderately until soft, 
being careful not to scorch them. Add 1 pound of raw beef cut into 
small pieces, 3 red peppers, first removing all the veins and seeds; or if 
preferred, bell peppers can be used. £ hour before serving, add k can of 
corn or 4 ears scraped from the cob, and 3 or 4 fresh peeled tomatoes. 
Season with salt and pour over toast. It should cook slowly for at least 
1J hours. 

KIDNEY STEW.— Mrs. W. B. Bradford. 

2 beeves' kidneys cut up very fine; pour hot water over, and as it 



36 MEATS, POULTRY AND GAME. 

boils, pour off and add fresh water; then let it simmer slowly for 2 
hours. Cut up 2 large onions, add to the stew, and cook 1 hour. About 
2 minutes before serving- add a little curry, thicken with flour, add wine, 
and serve on toast. 

KIDNEY STEW.— Mrs. P. T Burtchaell. 

Parboil the kidneys and pour off the water. Have frying-pan hot, 
put in a piece of butter, and fry 1 onion in same until brown; drain 
kidneys, put in frying-pan with onion and fry brown. Put saucepan on 
with a wineglass of sherry, let boil 1 minute, then turn kidneys in with 
salt, pepper, £ teaspoon of allspice and cinnamon; add water to cover; 
thicken with a little flour. Mushrooms may be added if desired. 

VEAL CUTLETS.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Lay the cutlets on a board and chop on both sides until they are 
quite ragged; roll in egg and cracker crumbs; put into a pan where 
there is plenty of hot fat, and cook rather slowly for 20 minutes, or 
until they are a nice brown; salt them and place on a platter. Put 1 
tablespoon of flour into fat remaining in the pan, and let cook a few 
minutes, stirring constantly; then gradually add milk until the gravy is 
of the right consistency. Season, and pour over cutlets, or serve 
separately. 

VEAL LOAF, STEAMED.— J/rs Carter P. Pameroy. 
2 pounds of veal and \ pound of salt pork, put through sausage 
grinder; 2 cups of bread crumbs soaked in stock or milk; 2 eggs 
unbeaten; a little grated onion; salt and pepper; steam in pudding pail 
2 hours. This is good served hot in slices with tomato sauce; or cold 
with mayonnaise dressing; or for a cold lunch dish; very easily made, 
and sure to be good. 

VEAL CROQUETTES.— Mrs. Wm. B. Noble. 
Put h pound of bread to soak in 1 pint of cold water; \ pound of 
cold veal to be chopped fine. Press the bread through a cloth to extract 
all the water. Put into a stew pan 2 ounces of butter and 1 tablespoon 
of onion chopped very fine; fry for 2 minutes; add the bread and stir 
until rather dry. Then add the meat, a little grated nutmeg and lemon 
peel, with salt and pepper to taste.' Stir continually until very hot, 
then add 2 eggs, one at a time; mix well together, then spread on a dish 
to cool. Make into egg-shaped balls, dip into egg and bread-crumb 
them, then fry in boiling fat to a light brown. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES.— Mrs. Win. B. Noble. 
Remove the skin, fat and bones from one cold boiled chicken; then 
chop, or grind, as for mince meat. Take 2 tablespoons of butter into 
which work 1 large tablespoon of flour; to this add i pint of cream or 
rich milk, \ of a nutmeg grated, a pinch of ground mace, 1 teaspoon of 
scraped onion, 1 tablespoon of chopped parsley, with salt and pepper to 
taste. Place this mixture, with the chicken, in a pan, and stew it about 
5 minutes; remove from the fire and add the yolks of 2 eggs; mix 
thoroughly and spread on a dish to cool. When cold, take about 1 



MEATS, POULTRY AND GAME. 37 

teaspoonful and roll in flour, and shape in a mold or a wineglass. Then 
take the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon of cream, 1 teaspoon of lemon 
juice, and a little salt; mix well, dip the croquettes first in this and then 
in fine bread crumbs. Fry in boiling fat, a light brown. These may be 
warmed over by putting them in a warm oven, not too hot or they 
will dry. 

PRESSED CHICKEN OR VEAL.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Cut up a full grown chicken, or 2 pounds of veal stew; put to cook 
in a small amount of water, cover tightly and cook 4 or 5 hours. Pour 
off the liquid and strain into another saucepan; there should be a good 
cupful of rich juice. Remove all bones and the skin of the chicken; 
pull the meat apart, put it into the juice and return to the fire. Season 
highly with salt and pepper, pour into bread pan, and set away to get 
cold. A few slices of cooked carrots cut in fancy shapes and placed in 
the bottom of the pan before pouring in the meat, improve the appear- 
ance. Garnish with parsley. Nice for lunch or an entree. 

CHICKEN TERRAPIN.— Mrs. J. E. Alexander 
(For a chafing dish.) 

Cut a cold chicken into small pieces, removing all bone and gristle. 
Put into the chafing dish J pint of cream and \ pound of butter rubbed 
into a large spoonful of flour; pepper and salt to taste. Add the 
chicken, and when it boib up, add 3 hard boiled eggs chopped fine, and 
the juice of a lemon. Simmer for a moment and serve. 

FRICASSEE CHICKEN.— Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

Split the chickens down the back, dry and dredge with flour; add 
pepper and salt; put in a pan with some bits of butter, cover with 1 
quart of water; put in oven, and closely cover with another pan which 
may be removed when the chickens are nearly done, to let them brown; 
thicken the gravy; serve with mashed potatoes. 

CHICKEN AU SUPREME.— Dr. C. B. Brown, S. F. 

1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon flour rubbed together, 3 pint of 
milk; cook until thick; add 2 teaspoon onion juice. Cut into dice 2 
cups of cooked chicken or turkey which have stood from 5 hour to 2 
hours in 2 tablespoons olive oil; add J teaspoon celery salt, 2 teaspoon 
white salt, and a dash of cayenne. 

SEVERAL WAYS TO COOK CHICKEN.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Take young chickens to fry; or if old they must be steamed first, 
then jointed, rubbed dry, rolled in flour, and fried in butter; or equal 
quantities of butter and dripping can be used. There must be plenty of 
fat; and after the chicken is well browned on both sides, add salt, cover 
tightly, and remove to where it will cook slowly, for at least 5 hour; 
turn occasionally. Put 1 heaping tablespoon of flour in fat; after the 
chicken is done, pour in milk to the light consistency; season, and pour 
over chicken, or serve in gravy boat. 

White Fricassee.— Joint the chickens and put to cook in hot 
water, pouring on water about J the depth of chicken. Cover tightly, 



38 MEATS, POULTRY AND GAME. 

and cook slowly from 2 to 5 hours, according- to age of chicken. £ hour 
before serving, season, make a drawn butter gravy of the broth, and let 
the chicken simmer in this on back of stove. Serve on split biscuit or 
toast, or place boiled rice around the edge of the platter. Some prefer 
a cream gravy. 

Smothered Chicken. — Split down the back young chickens £ 
grown; spread with butter, cover with another pan, and bake $ hour. 
Season and brown before serving. Some blown the chicken on the 
broiler. 

CHICKEN SOUFFLE.— Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

1 pint chopped chicken, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon chopped 
parsley, 1 pint of milk, 2 dashes of pepper, 1 tablespoon flour, 3 eggs, 
and £ cup of stale bread crumbs; put the butter into a small saucepan, 
and when melted add the flour and mix till smooth. Then add the milk 
and stir continually until it boils, add the crumbs, cook 1 minute; take 
from the fire, add salt, pepper, parsley, chicken, and the yolks of the 
eggs well beaten. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, stir them into the 
mixture carefully. Pour into a well greased baking dish, and bake in a 
quick oven for 20 minutes. Serve immediately or it will fall. 

CREAMED CHICKEN.— Mr s.. J. E. Alexander. 

1 chicken, 4 sweetbreads, 1 can mushrooms. Boil sweetbreads £ 
hour, chicken until tender. When cold, cut up as for salad. In a 
saucepan put 4 large tablespoons of butter; when melted, stir in 5 
tablespoons of flour, add 1 quart of rich milk, or J cream and h milk; 
stir until it thickens; flavor with a little onion juice, black and red 
pepper, and a little nutmeg. Put all together in a baking dish and 
cover with bread crumbs; add a little of the chicken broth. Bake 20 
minutes. Oysters, mushrooms and sweetbreads are delicious prepared 
in the same way. 

KEYSTONE PATES.— Mrs. W. B. Noble. 

Chop cold cooked meat fine, measure, and to every pint add 1 
tablespoon of butter, 2 tablespoons of dried bread crumbs, i cup of 
stock or boiling water, 2 eggs slightly beaten, and salt and pepper to 
taste. Put all these ingredients into a saucepan, and stir over the fire 
for a moment until thoroughly mixed. Fill custard cups § full with this 
mixture, stand them in a baking pan .} full of boiling water, and bake 
in a moderate oven 20 minutes. When done, turn them out carefully on 
a heated dish, and pour around them Bechamel sauce. Remains of any 
cold moat or poultry are delightful used in this way. 

SCRAPPLE.— Mrs. T. Siralton. 

Boil 2 pounds of beef or pork in enough water to cover it well, until 
the bones can be easily removed; take out the meat and chop it line; 
skim the fat from the wator, and when it comes to a boil again, stir in 
the chopped meat; add sage, salt and pepper to taste; stir into this 
enough corn meal to make it thick as mush; add the fat, or a part of it 
as desired; stir for 5 or 10 minutes; pour into a pan, and when cold cut 



MEATS, POULTRY AND GAME. 39 

into slices and fry brown quickly. This is nice for breakfast or luncheon, 
and will keep a week in a cool place. 

BACON AND RICE.— Mrs. W. B. Bradford. 

Boil 2 pounds of bacon until tender. Boil 2 cups of rice, to which 
add while cooking J cup of raisins not chopped. Put the bacon in the 
•center of a platter, and over the rice sprinkle almonds chopped and 
blanched. 1 pound of nuts before they are shelled will be about right. 
Nice for an entree. 

DEVILED CHOPS.— Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

Mix well together 1 ounce butter, 1 teaspoon made mustard, J 
teaspoon French mustard, salt, pepper, cayenne, 1 teaspoon hot 
Chutney, 1 teaspoon grated horse-radish, a little Chili vinegar, and the 
juice of 1 lime. Rub a little of this on 2 thick mutton chops broiled 
rare, and put the rest of the sauce over them in a very hot dish. 
PORK PIE.— Mrs. V. Neale. 
(To be served cold with breakfast or lunch.) 

Cut up some cold roast pork into rather large dice; have § meat 
and £ fat; put the bones and trimmings in a saucepan, and make a good 
gravy out of them. Put the pork into a deep pie dish, season well with 
salt, pepper, a little sage, and a very little chopped onion. Fill halfway 
with part of the gravy (cooled and seasoned), cover with a good plain 
short crust, ornament with paste leaves, and bake about % of an hour in 
a moderate oven until brown; then take it out and pour the remainder 
of the gravy (hot) through the hole in the center until nearly full. 
Memorandum: Be sure to make a small hole in center before placing 
the pie in the oven, otherwise it will not be wholesome. When cold the 
gravy should be all in a jelly; and the whole should be well seasoned. 
PORK AND BEANS.— Mrs. C. F. Robinson. 

Put 1 pint of pea beans in bean pot, with 1 tablespoon of syrup, a 
dash of cayenne, and 1 pound of fat salt pork, scored, placed on top; 
<?over with cold water, and bake in moderate oven from 12 to 24 hours, 
adding hot water as it evaporates. They must not be allowed to get 
dry until the last hour, when the water must be somewhat cooked down. 
If these directions are followed, the beans need not be soaked over 
night. 

HAM, SUGAR BAKED.— Miss Parsons, Tamalpais. 

Put the ham to soak in cold water the morning of the day befoi'e 
cooking. Put it over the fire next day, and boil 6 or 7 hours, until soft, 
or until a fork can be turned partly around in the rind. Strip off the 
rind, which can be done readily if the ham is done enough. Rub over 
the surface h cup of brown sugar; put into the oven in a dripping pan, 
and bake until nicely browned, or about an hour in a slow oven. In 
serving, slice very thin. 

TO BAKE A HAM.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Soak a ham over night; in the morning scrape, clean, and cover the 
ham all over with a paste about 5 inch thick made of graham flour wet 



40 MEATS, POULTRY AND GAME. 

in cold water; as the ham bakes, fill the cracks which form with some 
reserved paste. Put it into the pan dry and bake about 5 hours in 
a slow oven, or longer if the ham is very large. Remove crust, skin 
and all, and stick the ham with cloves; rub with bread crumbs, and 
brown, or frost, and garnish the bone with fancy paper. 

TO BOIL HAM.— Mrs. L. A. Lancet. 

Wash the ham thoroughly, and soak it if necessary, Have boiling 
£ gallon of claret with enough water to cover the ham; a good-sized 
ham will need to boil 3 hours, or until a fork enters easily. When done, 
remove the skin; sprinkle the ham with bread crumbs on top, and stick 
in a few cloves; then brown in the oven. Or, if boiled in water, when 
the skin is removed, while hot pour over it champagne or brandy with 
a little sugar; keep on pouring till about 1 cupful is absorbed, letting 
the ham remain in the liquid until cold. 

STEWED FRESH TONGUE.— Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

Soak a fresh tongue in cold water 1 hour; boil 3 hours, and put on 
one side till cold. Put it in a stewpan, cover with stock, add salt, 
cayenne, 1 dozen cloves, 1 turnip, 1 carrot, 2 onions, and 5 head celery, 
all cut very small. Stew gently 1£ hours; take out the tongue and add 
to the gravy 1 tablespoon made mustard, 3 tablespoons mushroom 
catsup, 1 tablespoon Worcestershire, 3 pickled gherkins chopped fine, 1 
tumbler port or l'ed wine, and 2 ounces butter braided with) 3 table- 
spoons browned flour; boil and stir this till smooth; put back the tongue 
•and simmer A an hour; dish the tongue, and pour the sauce over it. 

SHEEP'S TONGUE, SPANISH.— Miss jI. Pregge. 

Put 8 sheep's tongues into water and boil until tender: skin while 
hot, then slice them and place in a saucepan with 1 can of tomatoes; 
add a little onion, pepper, and salt. Boil 2 hour; before removing from 
the stove, thicken with 1 tablespoon of flour. 

BOILED LAMBS' TONGUES.— Mrs L. A. Lancel. 

Take as many lambs' tongues as you like, clean and put in boiling 
water; add salt, pepper, celery, carrots, turnips, laurel leaves, a little 
green pepper, and garlic. Boil all together till done; peel, and serve 
very hot. Boiled calves' feet, same as lambs' tongues. 

Sauce for Lambs' Tongues or Calves' Feet.— Take small 
chives, eschalots, and parsley; chop fine. Mix well 2 heaping table- 
spoons of the chopped greens, 6 tablespoons of olive oil, 8 of vinegar, 
2 tablespoon of salt, J teaspoon of pepper, A cup capers; serve on hot 
tongue. 

CALVES' FEET A LA MARECHAL.— Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

Boil, bone and cut into inch pieces, 4 calves' feet. Fry till soft in 4 
ounces butter, 2 onions, a little garlic, 2 green peppers and some 
mushrooms, all chopped small; add salt, pepper, cayenne, and a little 
mace; stir in 4 tablespoons of flour, and then add boiling milk enough 
to make the mixture as thick as rich cream. Put in the feet, and mix 



MEATS POULTRY AND GAME. 41 

all well together. Take off the fire, add the yolks of 2 eggs, the juice 
of a lime, and a tablespoon of water, all well beaten together; pour this 
mixture into a buttered pan, and put it by until cold ; cut into slices, 
dip twice into egg and bread crumb, fry to a light brown in butter, and 
serve very hot. 

TRIPE, SPANISH.— Miss If. Pregge. 
Take about 2 pounds of tripe (honey-comb is the best); wash 
thoroughly and cut into small pieces; then put into a saucepan and 
scald with boiling water for 10 or 15 minutes; pour off the water and 
add 1 quart of tomatoes, a little salt, a small piece of green or red 
pepper and about 5 whole cloves, a small onion cut fine, and a lime 
thinly sliced. Boil for 1 hour and thicken with 1 tablespoon of moistened 
flour; serve hot. To be nice, the tripe must be fresh and tender. 

FROGS A LA POULETTE.— Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

Joint the hind legs and backs of 12 frogs; put in a closely covered 
stewpan with some truffles, a small can of mushrooms sliced, a glass of 
good white wine ; salt, white pepper, cayenne, mace, and 4 ounces butter; 
stew gently 15 minutes, stirring once or twice; if then tender, add 1 
teaspoon cornstarch rubbed into 1 ounce of butter; let it cook 2 minutes, 
take from the fire, and stir in the yolks of 6 eggs beat up well with \ 
pint cream. Do not put on the fire again after putting in the eggs. 
Cut the inside of a German loaf into a nice shape and fry brown; put 
into the center of the dish, and stick into it skewers decorated with 
truffles, limes, and mushrooms. Put the frogs and sauce around this, 
and serve very hot. 

CANVAS-BACK DUCKS.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Tie the skin tightly to the neck of the duck, then put inside 1 level 
tablespoon salt and 1 teacup of water. Sew up as tightly as possible, 
put in a dry pan and bake in a hot oven from 20 to 30 minutes, according 
to size of duck. As the ducks brown, turn them; when done serve 
immediately. 

STEWED SQUABS.— Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

Make a stuffing of the livers and hearts chopped fine with a little 
butter, chopped pork, the yolk of an egg, salt, cayenne, and a little 
lemon. Stuff with this 6 squabs, put them in a stewpan, cover with 
stock, and stew gently \ hour; take out the birds and add salt, cayenne. 
3 tablespoons mushroom catsup, 1 tablespoon Worcestershire, 1 table- 
spoon lime juice, 1 large glass of port or sherry, and 2 ounces butter 
braided with 2 tablespoons browned flour; put back the birds for 10 
minutes. Fry some thick slices of bread, stand a bird on each, and 
pour the sauce over all. 

SWEETBREADS.— Dr. C. B. Brown, S. F. 

Parboil 2 pairs or 1 pound of sweetbreads 15 minutes, blanch, and 
cut into dice. Melt 1 tablespoon of butter, add 1 rounded tablespoon of 
flour, and cook until thick; slowly add £ pint of cream, and 1 gill 
asparagus liquor; cook together until the sauce is thick; add the sweet- 



42 MEATS, POULTRY AND GAME. 

breads, and 1 cup of fresh asparagus cut into small pieces. Stir 
carefully until cooked, adding 1 teaspoon salt and a dash of cayenne. 
SWEETBREADS.— Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

Lay the sweetbreads in cold water for 12 hours, changing the water 
several times; then boil them 5 minutes, drop into cold water, skin 
them, and lard them with fat bacon. Put in a stewpan 1 small carrot, 2 
small onions, and a teaspoon parsley all minced, the sweetbreads and 
1 pint of stock ; season with salt, pepper, cayenne, and a little mace, and 
stew till tender. Clean and slice a dozen mushrooms, boil them 5 
minutes in water and lime juice, drain them, and put them in a stewpan 
with a pint of good brown sauce; stew till reduced \. Dish the sweet- 
breads, and pour the sauce over them. 

QUAIL PATE.— Mrs. 1. A. Lancel. 

6 quail, or same amount of chicken, 2 pounds veal, 1 pound fresh 
pork. Put into a bean pot a layer of quail, pork and veal alternately; 
season each layer with pepper, salt, a little garlic, and a few bay leaves; 
keep on until all the meat is used; add i pint of good stock; some use 
white wine. Cover tightly so that no steam can escape; mix a paste of 
flour and water to put around the cover so that the jar will be air-tight. 
Bake 2J hours in a moderate oven. The meat can also be chopped fine, 
and baked in the same way. The bones of the veal should be placed on 
top of the meat when ready to be covered for the oven. 

BRAINS A LA VINAIGRETTE.— Mrs. Walter S. Hubart. 
(Dinner entree after soup.) 

Put into a frying-pan two large tablespoons butter; make smoking 
brown. Add 1 tablespoon chopped estregon or small garlic, 1 table- 
spoon chopped eschalot, 1 tablespoon of chopped parsley, 1 cup of 
bouillon' or soup, 1 cup of white wine, 2 tablespoons of vinegar, 3 or 4 
bay leaves, black pepper and salt to taste. Boil all together 10 minutes; 
add prepared brains to the mixture, and boil 15 minutes. Let the brains 
be divided in large pieces, not chopped fine. 

HAGGIS.— Mrs. Wm. B. Noble. 

Chop the uncooked heart, tongue, and half of the liver of a sheep, 
and mix with them a little less than half their weight in chopped bacon; 
add 5 cup of stale bread crumbs, the grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 teaspoon 
of salt, \ teaspoon of white pepper, and 2 well beaten eggs; pack this 
into a buttered mold, cover, place it in a kettle partly filled with boiling 
water, and boil slowly for 2 hours. When done turn it on a dish, and 
serve it plain or with sauce Bechamel. This is a famous Scotch dish, 
and when once tried will be repeated. 

SAUCE BECHAMEL.— Mrs. Wm. B. Noble. 

Put 1 tablespoon of butter in a frying-pan; when melted add an 

tablespoon of flour; mix until smooth, add 1 gill of cream and 1 

gill of stock; stir continuously until it boils; take it from the fire, add 

the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, J teaspoon of salt, \ teaspoon of pepper, and 

it is ready to serve. Do not boil after adding the yolks. 



MEATS, POULTRY AND GAME. 43 

SAUCE HOLLANDAISE.— Mrs. \\ r . B. Bradford. 

1 heaping - tablespoon butter; when melted, add 1 tablespoon flour, 
and cook a few minutes. Then add 1 teacup of boiling water, and stir 
until smooth. Gradually add the yolks of 2 or 3 eggs, the juice of 1 
lemon, salt, and red pepper. Nice for fish or meat. 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE.— Mrs. Geo. Boyd. 
Ingredients: 3 or 4 tablespoons of cream, 4 tablespoons of grated 
horse-radish, 1 teaspoon of pounded sugar, 1 teaspoon of'salt, J teaspoon 
of pepper, 2 teaspoons of mustard, vinegar. Mode: Grate the horse- 
radish, and mix it well with the sugar, salt, pepper, and the mustard 
which has been mixed with vinegar; put in the cream, and warm in a 
double boiler; do not allow to boil, or it will curdle. With cold meat, 
serve cold. This sauce will last several days. 

DRESSING FOR CHOPS.— Mrs. R. E. Neil. 

2 pickled cucumbers, 1 pickled onion, 1 tablespoon capers; chop all 
fine and add 1 tablespoon tomato catsup. Melt 1 tablespoon butter; add 
to it 2 teaspoons flour, 1 cup of stock and the chopped pickles. Simmer 
5 minutes, and pour over the chops. This is nicest with breaded chops. 

. TOMATO SAUCE.— Mrs. W. B. Bradford. 

1 pint canned tomatoes, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 8 
cloves, and a small slice of onion. Cook tomatoes, cloves and onion 10 
minutes. Heat butter in a pan, add the flour, stir until brown; add to 
the tomatoes, and boil 10 minutes longer; season with salt and pepper, 
and strain through a sieve. 

OYSTER DRESSING.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Remove all the crust from a baker's stale loaf, and crumb up fine; 
work in 1 cup of butter, a dash of cayenne, and salt to taste. Add 1 
quart of fresh oysters and sufficient strained juice to moisten the 
dressing. Fill the craw of the turkey, and put the remainder inside. 
PLAIN DRESSING.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Make the same as above, omitting the oysters; season with sage; 
wet with nice rich milk ; chop an onion fine, cook in butter and stock or 
water, and add, if onions are agreeable, but do not brown the onion. 
A few olives added makes an agreeable variety. 

CHESTNUT DRESSING.— Mrs. V. A. Lancet 

1 pound chestnuts boiled, 1 pound beef, I pound fresh pork, chopped 
all together. Season with salt and pepper; add \ loaf of baker's bread 
soaked in water and drained, and 2 beaten eggs. 

CHESTNUT DRESSING.— Mrs. McMahou. 

1 quart chestnuts; shell, blanch, and boil them until tender; strain, 
mash or chop fine; add 1 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon salt, and a 
saltspoon of pepper. Mix, and put into the turkey. Do not mash too 
fine. I think it better to chop with a hash knife. Or 1 cup of French 
chestnuts prepared as above may be added to a rich bread and butter 
dressing. 



48 ADVERTISEMEMTS. 

Attention 
Ladies- 



If you desire to cook a meal, satisfactorily to yourselves 
and to the palates of those partaking of it, be sure 
to obtain none but the best goods, and for the . 



CHOICEST AND FRESHEST 

Meats, Sausages, 
Salted Meats, 
Lard, Etc. 

. . Go to . . 



CHRIS. KLEIN 



Wholesale and 

Retail Butcher 



*$? 



The Leading Butchering Establishment Qqv "R 311(1 SecOllfl 
of Marin County. 

Streets. San Rafael. 



IRules for CoofcinQ Degetables. 

Put all fresh vegetables to cook into boiling- water. 

Onions and string beans require more time than other vegetables, 1£ 
hours at least being required to cook them tender. 

STUFFED POTATOES.— Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

Bake good-sized potatoes; when done, cut oft" top (the long way), 
scoop out the inside and mash; season with butter, cream, salt, pepper, 
and beaten white of egg; refill the potatoes and brown in oven. Must 
be eaten immediately. 

BROILED POTATOES.— Mrs. E. B. Malum. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes, dip them lightly into the white of an egg, 
then broil; when brown, pour over them a little melted butter, pepper, 
salt, and chopped parsley. 

ESCALOPED POTATOES.— Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

Use a deep baking dish suitable to place on the table; or a granite 
pan with a napkin wrapped around it will answer. Slice cold boiled 
potatoes; place 2 slices of salt pork in the bottom of the dish, then a 
layer of sliced potatoes; over the top of this sprinkle pepper, salt, and 
a little flour with a few pieces of butter; repeat this till the dish is full; 
finish the top with flour and butter; fill with milk, and place in the oven; 
bake 1 hour. This is a nice dish for lunch. 

STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS. -Mrs. L. A. Lancet 

Cut off the tops of good fresh peppers; take out all the inside; fill 
with a mixture of sausage meat mixed with bread crumbs, egg, salt, 
and a little milk if necessary; put them in a saucepan with some nice 
stock and a good piece of butter; cover tightly and steam \\ hours. 

STUFFED ONIONS.— Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 
Boil until tender 6 medium-sized onions; take out the hearts and 
chop them up with some cold beef, reserving the outer parts to be 
stuffed. Put in a frying-pan a tablespoon of lard, add 4 tomatoes, 1 
clove of garlic, £ minced onion, and \ green pepper roasted on top of the 
stove; fry these all together, and add the minced meat and onion; cook 
a few moments, and add 4 tablespoons of olive oil, a little ground 
allspice, cloves, and oregano, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 
some salt, and enough claret to moisten thoroughly. Then add a 
handful of seeded raisins, about 6 chopped olives, and a hard-boiled egg 
chopped fine; stuff the onions with this hash. Beat 6 eggs until light, 
yolks and whites separately; mix them together, sprinkle each onion 



50 VEGETABLES. 

with flour, and dip into the beaten egg; then fry in a frying-pan with 
plenty of lard. Put in a stewpan a spoonful of lard, and when hot, add 
5 or 6 minced tomatoes, 1 chopped onion, a little green pepper, and a 
clove of garlic, some oregano, salt, and a little soup stock; let it stew a 
few minutes, put the stuffed onions in the sauce, and simmer J hour. 

GREEN CORN FRITTERS.— Mrs. R. E. Neil. 
1 dozen ears corn grated or scraped; yolks of 4 eggs; 3 tablespoons 
flour. Fry in lard and butter mixed. 

CORN FRITTERS.— Mrs. A. A. imith. 

] can of corn, the same quantity of rolled cracker, 2 eggs beaten 
separately, a pinch of salt, and pepper. Wet the mixture with milk 
sufficiently to drop from the spoon; fry in a mixture of butter and lard 
in a frying-pan. 

MACARONI, ITALIAN STYLE.— Mrs. W. F. Jam*. 

Cover 1 pound of macaroni with boiling water; salt it and let it cook 
until tender or about 5 hour. Drain in a colander and pour into the 
center of the platter. Have prepared a dressing made of 1 can of sliced 
mushrooms, 1 quart can of tomatoes, salt, a dash of cayenne. 3 table- 
spoons butter, 1 cup stock, and 1 tablespoon flour rubbed into the 
butter. Cook mushrooms and tomatoes 5 hour, -then add the other 
ingredients; cook until it is a thick sauce, and pour it over the macaroni. 
Serve as entree. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH HAMBURGER STEAK. 
—Mrs. II. 0. Howitt. 

Take 12 large, firm and ripe tomatoes; remove the tops with a 
sharp knife, also the centers; fill with the following mixture: Mix well 
some Hamburger steak with browned bread crumbs, chopped onion, 
salt and pepper, and especially butter; be sure that the firm texture of 
the steak is well broken up; then fill the tomatoes with this mixture, 
with the centers of the tomatoes added; place the tops on them, bind 
with a light string, and lay in a kettle in which are placed some strips 
of bacon; steam for f of an hour; then remove the strings carefully and 
serve. Be sure they are browned before serving. 

EGGS AND TOMATOES.— Dr. C. B. Brown, S. F. 

Mix 1 tablespoon butter and 1 dessert spoon flour; cook together 
and add ■> pint of thick tomatoes. When this is hot, add (i eggs beaten 
light, 1 teaspoon salt, and I teaspoon onion juice. 

RICE, SPANISH.— Mrs. L. A. Lancet. 

Put .] cup of rice into a pan with 1 heaping tablespoon of lard: let 
boil until all the kernels turn white; then add 1 quart of tomatoes, 1 
green pepper, 1 large onion browned in butter, and salt; if not hot 
enough, add more pepper. 

ASPERGES AUX MILANAISE.— Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

Boil large, choice asparagus till tender; put a layer of it upon the 
dish in which it is to be served. Sprinkle with salt, cayenne, and a 
little grated Parmesan; make three layers of this and pour over all a 



VEGETABLES. 51 

little melted butter; then break on top a fresh egg for each person, and 
put in the oven until set. Serve very hot. 

CREAMED MUSHROOMS.— Dr. C B. Brown, S. F. 

1 pound mushrooms, 2 tablespoons butter. Put mushrooms into 
melted butter, and cook until soft. Add 1 gill cream, 1 teaspoon salt. 
and a dash of white pepper. 

NOODLES A LA GERMAN.— Mrs. Thos. Duffy. 

2 eggs beaten light; add 2 tablespoons water. Put some flour in a. 
bowl, add the egg, beating well; add more flour to make stiff; knead 
light like bread; roll thin as possible; leave it dry; then cut in strips 2 
inches wide, lay rows together, cut very fine; shake them out on a cloth 
to dry. Boil 20 minutes in salt water; drain in colander. Fry small 
cubes of bread in butter; melt more butter, and pour over noodles. 
Serve immediately. 

CAULIFLOWER, GERMAN STYLE.— Mrs. H. 0. Howitt. 

Boil a large white head of cauliflower in salted water until tender: 
then place it in a baking dish, and pour over it this mixture: the beaten 
yolks of 2 eggs mixed with a little cream or milk, 2 heaping tablespoons 
of grated cheese, a little melted butter, a pinch of cayenne pepper, a 
pinch of salt; bake 5 minutes until brown; serve in same dish. This 
may be used as an entree. 

SAUCE FOR HOT SLAW.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 teacup of cream, butter the size of a walnut. When hot mix with 
a beaten egg, and pour over cabbage that has been cooked in vinegar 
and water. Pour the hot cream over the egg to prevent curdling. 



THP San Rafael. 

uic- — _^ CaL 



IRew €nglanfc Mia 



Ibotel ano Cottages. 



Superior Accommodations for Families ONE BLOCK FROM 

Large and shady Grounds NARROW GAUGE DEPOT. 

Table first-class. Terms $1.25 to $1.50 

per day. $7.00 to $10.00 per week. . „ /vpfkjvjNflD 

Children under 12 years, half-price . iU * W ^UIXIXUK, 

Prop. 



54 ADVERTISEMEMTS. 



GERMEA 




For Breakfast. 



Cooks in 
Three Minute* 



PREPARED FROM THE CHOICEST 



CALIFORNIA WHITE WHEAT. 



CHICKEN SALAD.— J/j-s. F. M. Angellotti. 

2 boiled chickens cut in dice; with this mix thoroughly an equal 
quantity of good crisp celery cut in small pieces, 3 chopped olives, and 2 
teaspoons of capers. Make a dressing of 6 tablespoons of best olive 
oil, 2 tablespoons of vinegar, 2 teaspoons of salt, and a dash of cayenne; 
pour over and set away. Prepare a mayonnaise as follows: 2 yolks of 
eggs in a soup plate; add little by little the olive oil, stirring steadily 
with a silver fork; as the dressing thickens, thin it with a little lemon 
juice to the consistency of cream; add salt and pepper to taste. Make 
a mound, pour over it the mayonnaise, and garnish with lettuce leaves. 
CHICKEN SALAD.— Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

Cut the white meat of the chicken into small bits (also the dark 
meat if you wish), cut the celery the same size, and use the same 
quantity of each; allow 2 hard boiled eggs to each quart of meat. 
Dressing: 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt. 2 teaspoons mustard; hot 
water to mix smooth; \ cup melted butter, 3 eggs well beaten, § cup 
cream, \ cup vinegar. After it is thoroughly cool add \ pint olive oil, 
1 drop at a time. The dressing must not be put on until just before 
serving. 

SUMMER SALAD.-J/ys. /. E. Alexander. 

Lay a few crisp lettuce leaves on each plate, then add a few slices 
ripe tomato and cucumber, cover with salad dressing and serve very 
cold. 

MOSAIC SALAD.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Prepare and boil separately in salt water, asparagus, cauliflower, 
string beans, carrots, potatoes, and beets. Cut off the asparagus tips, 
break up the cauliflower, cut the string beans in small pieces, and cut 
carrots, potatoes, and beets in any shape fancied. To these ingredients 
add a few stoned olives, capers, and tiny pickles: baste with French 
dressing, and se« away for an hour in a cold place. To 1 quart of these 
vegetables take \ box of Knox's gelatine and soak in a little cold water; 
then pour over it 1 pint of boiling water, when cool stir into it 1 cup 
of mayonnaise; pour this over the vegetables, and turn into a mold 
previously wet in cold water. When set, turn on a platter, garnish 
with nice white lettuce leaves, and serve with mayonnaise. 
ORANGE SALAD.— Mrs. McMahon. 

Slice oranges lengthwise, and fill lettuce cups same as for straw- 
berries. Pour over the following dressing: J cup vinegar, 2 tablespoons 
salad oil, 1 teaspoon sugar, a pinch of salt. 



56 SALADS. 

FRENCH SALAD.— Mrs. V. Neale. 
Wash the lettuce well and leave in cold water a couple of hours; 
then dry in a cloth. Mix in the salad towl 2 tablespoons of olive oil, 4 
or 5 drops of vinegar, h, a small green onion cut in slices, \ a mild green 
pepper (when in season), a pinch of salt, and plenty of fresh ground 
pepper; then break up the best part of 2 lettuce heads into the bowl; 
mix all well together, and serve. Do not keep it waiting long, and be 
very careful not to use too much vinegar or salt. 

CABBAGE SALAD.-Jfe Parsons, Tamalpais. 

1 cup vinegar, 3 teaspoons mustard (small), 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon 
melted butter, 1 teaspoon salt, \ teaspoon pepper, J- cup sugar. Heat 
the vinegar in a double boiler, and stir in the other ingredients which 
have been mixed together. Cook only long enough to thicken slightly, 
as it curdles if cooked too long. Use this as a dressing to pour over 
chopped cabbage. 

PINK SALAD.— Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

3 quarts of cabbage chopped very fine, 1 quart of boiled beets 
chopped, 1 cup of grated horse-radish, 1 teaspoon of black pepper, 1 
cup of sugar, 1 tablespoon of salt. \ teaspoon red pepper; cover with 
cold vinegar, and keep in air-tight fruit jars. 

GELATINE SALAD.— Mrs. Oge. 

Soak h box Cox's gelatine in 1 cup cold water 1 hour. Boil soup 
vegetables with 3 whole cloves, season with pepper and salt; put them 
into 1 quart strained tomatoes; strain the boiling mixture and stir the 
gelatine into it while heating slowly on the stove; strain again and till 
sherbet glasses h full. When cold, turn out on salad plates and garnish 
with lettuce. Serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

DEVILED EGGS.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Boil 8 eggs hard, and lay in cold water until cold. Take off the 
shells, cut in halves, slicing off a small piece of the big end to make 
them stand. Remove the yolks and rub smooth; add a little mustard, 
a tablespoon of butter, a dash of cayenne, and a few drops of vinegar 
or lemon juice, also salt; make any additions that may be liked. Fill 
the whites with this mixture and put together; stand them in a bed of 
chopped cress, lettuce or white cabbage, seasoned with salt, pepper, 
vinegar, and sugar if desirable. A little chopped ham is nice added. 
Mayonnaise alone is nice mixed with the yolks, then piled up in 
the little white cups of the eggs and served on lettuce leaves: in this way 
cut off both ends of the eggs, so the cups will stand. 

STRAWBERRY SALAD.— Mrs. McMahon. 

Choose the heart leaves of nice head lettuce; make cups of 2 leaves 
with the stems crossed; fill with firm berries. Put a spoonful of mayon- 
naise dressing on top of berries. 

CELERY SALAD.— Mrs. Oge. 

Take the white parts of a bunch of celery and cut them into pieces 
of a quarter of an inch; also cut up a little of the white part of a head 
of lettuce, and a very little of the top of an onion. Make a mayonnaise 



SALADS. 57 

dressing of \ cup of olive oil, yolks of 2 eggs, red and black pepper to 
taste; and when done add 3 tablespoons of thick sweet cream or 
whipped cream. Mix with the salad and fill small green peppers with 
the mixture: put one pepper on each plate, and garnish with small 
pieces of lettuce. 

CELERY SALAD.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Peel 1 dozen nice large tomatoes: remove the seeds and juice, leaving 
them cup shaped. Cut the nice white stalks from 3 heads of celery 
into small pieces; baste with French dressing, and set away for an hour 
in a cold place. Stuff the tomatoes with the celery, sprinkle with salt, 
and on the top put mayonnaise. Serve very cold on nice crisp lettuce. 
Celery is also nice served on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise, without 
tomatoes. 

SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL. 

1 tablespoon vinegar, the yolk of 1 egg beaten. Put on vinegar to 
boil, add yolk of egg and stir until it thickens; then add h teaspoon 
mustard, h teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, a piece of butter the size of 
a walnut. Pour all this over the beaten white of the egg, and then add 
cream until thin enough. 

SALAD DRESSING TO KEEP ON HAND.— Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

5 teaspoons of mustard, 4 teaspoons of sugar, 1 small teaspoon of 
salt, 4 tablespoons of olive oil; beat these thoroughly; then add 4 eggs, 
12 tablespoons of milk, 12 tablespoons of vinegar: stir all together in a 
quart bowl that can be placed over a boiling kettle; stir constantly till 
it becomes creamy; remove, and stir a little more lest the eggs curdle. 
This will keep two months or longer, in an air-tight fruit jar. 

CREAM DRESSING FOR SHRIMPS.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Whip 1 teacup of cream just turning sour: add very little vinegar, 
and sugar to give a rich taste but not too sweet; pour over the shrimps 
and serve on lettuce leaves. Nice where one does not like oil; also nice 
with plain salad. 

CREAM DRESSING.— Mrs. F. B. Mahon. 

1 cup of cream, 1 tablespoon of vinegar. 1 teaspoon of mustard, a 
little salt; mix together very slowly, . 

DEVILED EGGS.— Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

Boil the eggs 15 minutes, put in cold water to cool, remove the 
shells, cut them in two lengthwise, take out the yolks and rub to a 
smooth paste with 1 teaspoon of mustard and 1 teaspoon of salad oil; 
mix a tablespoon of minced ham with salt and pepper to taste, fill the 
whites with this mixture (depends on how many eggs in regard to 
mixture). 

WALNUT SANDWICHES.— Mrs. J. M. Dollar. 

Mix finely chopped walnuts with enough mayonnaise dressing to 
make a soft paste. Take thin slices of buttered bread, spread 1 slice 
with the paste, put a lettuce leaf on the other; put them together, and 
cut in any shapes desired. Keep in a cold place until ready to use them. 



58 . ADVERTISEMENTS. 



DR. G. G. VANDERLIP 



Dentist 



OFFICE HOURS: OFFICE: 

9 to 12 A.M., Over Inman's Drug Store, 

I to 4.30 P. M. 

SAN RAFAEL. « 



HEPBURN WILKINS 



.Attorney at Law 

619 FOURTH STREET, San Rafael, 

Wilkins' Building. Marin Co., Cal. 



C. ROY BARNEY 



San Rafael, 
Cal. 



Insurance and General Commission 
^^. Agent ^ 

813 FOURTH ST. - BET. C AND D. 



SARDINES WITH CHEESE.— Mrs. Carter. P. Pomeroy. 
Open a box of large sardines, drain them; cut stale bread into g-inch 
slices, then into strips a little longer than the sardines; fry in deep fat a 
bright brown, drain on brown paper. On each strip lay one sardine, 
and cover with grated Parmesan cheese. Put in hot oven on pan till 
the cheese melts and crusts over them; sprinkle with finely chopped 
parsley and a little lemon juice; serve hot. 

EGGS BAKED IN CHEESE SAUCE.— Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 

1 teaspoon of butter melted; add 1 teaspoon of flour, or more if & 
thicker sauce is liked. Cook thoroughly but do not brown; add 1 cup 
of milk, or cream preferred (use more butter if milk is used), which 
must be added slowly to make a smooth sauce; then add 4 tablespoons 
of grated cheese: stir well, and when thoroughly hot, pour into a ho' 
baking dish which can go to the table. Drop in 4 eggs as if for poaching, 
being very careful not to break the yolks. Put at once into oven, and 
when the eggs are set serve at once. Makes a very nice entree. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

2 tablespoons of butter, 1 tablespoon of flour. Rub smooth, and 
add I cup of milk, yolks of 3 eggs, and 1 cup of grated cheese. Cook 
in double boiler; let boil 2 minutes, and then cool. Add the beaten 
whites, and bake 10 minutes in muffin rings with white paper underneath. 
Remove rings and serve immediately on the paper. Delicious. 

CHEESE SCALLOP.— Mrs. Robert Dollar. 
Soak 1 cup of di*y bread crumbs in fresh milk. Beat into this 3 
eggs; add 1 tablespoon of butter and J pound of grated cheese; strew 
sifted bread crumbs upon the top, and bake in the oven a delicate 
brown. 

MACARONI.— Mrs. R. E. Neil. 

Boil macaroni until tender, and drain through a colander; then turn 
it into a pudding dish and pour over it 1 cup of rich gravy, 1 cup of 
stewed tomatoes, 1 cup of dried mushrooms that have been soaked in 
warm water 2 hours, and 1 teaspoon of salt in which has been rubbed a 
little garlic. Lastly, add 2 chopped Chili peppers and 2 cups of grated 
Parmesan cheese spread over the top. Bake \ or % of an hour. Excel- 
lent. 

MACARONI CROQUETTES.— Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 

2 ounces macaroni, butter size \ an egg, pepper and salt, 1 tablespoon 
cream, 2 ounces grated cheese. Boil macaroni in water f of an hour; 



60 CHEESE. 

strain, and cut in small pieces; put back in stewpan with the cream and 
butter; when hot, add cheese and 1 egg well beaten. Put away till cold; 
shape into croquettes, roll in egg and bread crumbs, and fry in deep 
lard. This is very good; use small macaroni; serve alone, or with a 
tomato or cheese sauce. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Boil | of a pound of macaroni in salt and water for about \ hour oi~ 
until tender, and drain through a colander. Grate % of a pound of rich 
cheese. Put a layer of macaroni in the bottom of an earthenware dish; 
add salt, a few pieces of butter, a dash of cayenne, and sprinkle with 
cheese. Repeat until your material is all used, having cheese come on 
top. Pour over this 1 pint of milk and bake about h hour. It must be 
well browned and the milk cooked away, but not too dry. Serve as 
an entree. 

CHEESE STRAWS.— Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. , 

Mix together 2 ounces grated Parmesan cheese, 2 ounces flour. 2 
ounces butter, and a little salt and cayenne; make into a stiff paste with 
the yolk of 1 egg. Roll out the paste until J inch thick and 5 inches 
wide; cut into strips J inch wide, and bake on buttered tin in a hot 
oven 10 minutes or till a pale brown. 

CHEESE STRAWS.— Mrs. W. F Jones. 

] cup of flour, J scant cup of butter, 1 cup of rich grated cheese, a 
pinch of salt. Rub flour and butter together as for pastry, then add 
cheese, 5 dashes of cayenne; wet with the whites of 2 eggs well beaten, 
and if not moist enough to roll, add a little water. The eggs can be 
omitted and all water used. Roll out as for rather thick pie-crust, and 
cut in strips 2 inches wide; then cut these into strips \ of an inch wide. 
Bake in a quick oven until a light brown. They must be crisp. Nice 
with salad or cold meats. Keep in tightly closed tins. 

WELSH RAREBIT.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Melt 1 cup of grated cheese in a saucepan; add 2 beaten eggs. 2 
tablespoons cream, and lastly a dash of cayenne and of mustard. Stir 
constantly until done, and serve immediately on hot buttered toast; it is 
best served on hot individual plates. For a Golden Buck place a poached 
egg on top of each serving. A little ale may be added at the last 
mo.nent to the plain Rarebit, and served bubbling hot. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 61 



JSurtcbaell & Co. 



. . . The . . . 



Leading Grocers 



Crockery, Glassware, 

Agate and Tinware. 622. 624 Fourth St. 

San Rafael, California. 



<L <$rosjean & Co. 

. Q ROC E RS 



KEEP THE BEST 

Baking Powder, Extracts, 

Gelatines, 

Corn Starch, Etc., Etc. 

To be be used in the following recipes. 
Telephone Red 34. 715, 717, Fourth St. 



Fggs. 



a: i rffK a: 



OMELETTE.— Mrs. Win. B. Bradford. 

Beat the whites and yolks of 6 eggs separately. To the yolks add 
3 teaspoons of corn starch or flour, salt, and 1 cup of milk. Stir in the 
whites and turn into a hot buttered pan. When it sets put it on the top 
slide of the oven for a few minutes, then fold and serve. A little 
chopped parsley or finely chopped ham makes a variety, or a few cooked 
green peas, or a few fresh oysters seasoned and cooked'in their own juice 
until the gills curl, and spread over the omelette just before serving. 
Nice for an entree. 

OMELETTE.— Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 

Sure to be good and light. 6 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separ- 
ately; \ tablespoon of butter; \ tablespoon of flour; 1 cup of milk; 
make a white sauce of milk, butter and flour, and when cold add first 
the yolks well beaten and then the whites beaten to a stiff froth; have 
the pan very hot, brown quickly, fold and serve. If possible put the 
pan in oven for a moment as it cooks more quickly. This makes a 
delicious entree with a little canned or green corn left from the day 
before, made hot and folded inside; or a little stewed tomato; or some 
asparagus tips cooked in a cream sauce; or as a dessert with lumps of 
sugar on the edge of the dish, upon which brandy or rum has been 
poured and lighted; bring it burning to the table, and with the serving- 
spoon throw the burning brandy over the omelette. 

CHOCOLATE OMELETTE.— J/, *. W. F. Jones. 

Make either of the above omelettes, and just before folding, pour 
over the following; 2 heaping tablespoons chocolate, 1 tablespoon sugar. 
and 1 of water; cook until smooth. Serve as dessert. 

SPANISH OMELETTE.— Mrs. Waller S. Hobart. 

Put 2 large tablespoons butter with 2 large bell-peppers chopped 
fine, into a frying-pan with 6 or 7 large tomatoes skinned and chopped. 
Cook till tender; add 2 or 3 large onions; cook all together until tender; 
season with salt, and red or black pepper to suit taste. Make an 
omelette of 1 or 2 eggs to each person; when partly done add the above 
filling, and make a turnover. 

SWEETBREAD OMELETTE.— Mrs. L. A. lancet. 

Boil and skin a pair of sweetbreads, and cut in small pieces; brown 
some butter; put in the sweetbreads, when brown pour over it the eggs 
prepared as for any omelette; add a little chopped green onion and 
parsley. 



SALADS. 63 

EGGS WITH MUSTARD SAUCE.— Mrs. Wm. Lichtenberg. 

Boil as many eggs as needed, 5 minutes; take off the shells and cut in 
halves lengthwise; lay on a platter. Melt a slice of butter; mix a little 
mustard with milk, and add to the heated butter; as this will curdle, 
boiling water must be added to make it smooth. Pour this gravy over 
the eggs, and serve hot for lunch. 

BAKED EGGS.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Chop very fine some cold meat; lamb or veal is preferable. Put in a 
saucepan with a good piece of butter, salt and pepper, and add enough 
gravy stock or milk to moisten. When hot, have muffin rings in a pan, 
and drop into each one enough of the mixture to about half fill the 
ling; then drop a fresh egg on the top of each, not breaking the yolks: 
put some pieces of butter with salt and pepper over the top, and bake 
until the eggs are cooked. Slip out of the rings and serve. This can 
be made in a large dish without muffin rings. 

CREAMED EGGS.— Mrs. J. L. Tharp. 

•*] eggs for 5 guests; boil 10 minutes, then lay in cold water to cool. 
Prepare toast cut in any fancy shapes desired. Put 1 pint of cream to 
heat, not boil. Separate whites from yolks of eggs; press whites 
through fruit pressor, then add to cream. Have toast arranged upon a 
platter; having pressed yolks through fruit pressor, pile upon each piece 
of toast; pour cream around; add salt and pepper to taste. Serve 
immediately. 

EGGS ON ANCHOVY TOAST.— Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy 
Cut round pieces of toast, butter them and spread with anchovy paste. 
Make a cupful of good rich cream sauce; chop the whites of 5 hard 
boiled eggs fine; put them into the cream sauce, heap it on the toast: 
squeeze the yolks of the eggs through a patent potato masher of the 
squeezing kind, and pile that on top. Serve hot on individual plates as 
an entree, or arrange with a garnish of parsley on a large platter; it is 
pretty and good, and easily made. 
EGGS WITH ANCHOVY CREAM SAUCE. ^-Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy 

Make a large cupful of cream sauce: add enough anchovy sauce to 
color it pink, about the color of shrimps, and either poach eggs in it. or 
put the sauce in a hot baking dish, drop the eggs carefully in. set in hot 
oven, and when the eggs have set. serve on same dish: or boil the eggs 
hard, cut in halves, arrange neatly on a dish, and pour the sauce around 
them; making 3 quite distinct dishes, and all good. 

ANCHOVIED EGGS.—/;/-. C. B. Brown, S. F. 

2 tablespoons butter and 1 tablespoon flour; stir until smooth; i 
pint of milk and 2 teaspoons anchovy paste. Stir until smooth and 
thick, then add 6 hard boiled eggs cut in slices, 1 tablespoon cream, and 
a dash of cayenne. Cook in double boiler. 

SMOTHERED EGGS.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Have a large spoonful of butter hot, and the pan hot: set this on 
back of stove, break in the eggs quickly, and cover; keep turning the 



•64 EGGS. 

pan so that all will get the same heat. Peep in once in a while, and 
when you see the white set, remove cover and dish up carefully. 
Delicious if done properly. 

THE MOST DELICATE AND WHOLESOME WAY TO BOIL 
EGGS.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Put them in a saucepan, pour fast boiling water over them, cover 
tightly, and remove at once to back of stove; let stand 8 minutes, or 10 
if required harder. 



PLUM PUDDING.— Mrs. Vincent Xeale. 

Ingredients: 1 pound seeded raisins, 5 pound sultanas, 1 pound 
currants, 1£ pounds moist sugar (brown), 1J pounds bread crumbs, 12 
eggs, lj pounds finely chopped suet, £ pound mixed candied peel, rind of 
1 lemon, a pinch of nutmeg and cinnamon, a few drops of almond flavor, 
1 wineglass of whiskey or brandy. Cut the raisins, but do not chop 
them; cut the candied peel in thin slices; wash and pick the currants, 
and dry them: mix all the ingredients together and moisten with the 
eggs (if too moist, sprinkle a little flour over); stir in the brandy. Scald 
and flour a pudding cloth, put in the pudding and tie up fairly tight; 
boil for 6 hours. 2 or 3 puddings may be made instead of 1, as they will 
keep for several weeks if hung up in a dry, cool place. Excellent. 

PLUM PUDDING.— Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

1 pound buttei*, 1 pound suet chopped fine and free from shreds. 1 
pound sugar, 2J pounds flour, 2 pounds raisins seeded and chopped fine 
and dredged with flour, 2 pounds currants carefully washed, \ pound 
citron finely shredded, 12 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 1 
pint milk, 1 cup brandy, \ ounce cloves, \ ounce mace, 2 grated nutmegs. 
Beat together cream, butter and sugar, and mix in the yolks when 
beaten smooth and light. Add the milk, then the flour alternately with 
the beaten whites. Then add the brandy and spice, and lastly the fruit 
well dredged with flour. Mix all thoroughly. Wring out pudding cloth 
in hot water, flour well inside, pour in the mixture, and boil 5 hours. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING.— A. E. Menzies. 

1 pound raisins, 1 pound currants, 1 pound beef suet chopped very 
fine, J pound brown sugar, £ pound flour, f pound bread crumbs (stale 
bread), I pound mixed peel (oi'ange, lemon, and citron), 1 teaspoon salt, 
1 teaspoon mixed spices, and 8 eggs. Mix all the ingredients very 
thoroughly. Wring a cloth out of boiling water, and flour it. After 
putting the pudding into the cloth, tie tightly, but allow room to swell. 
Boil 10 or 12 hours. 

PLUM PUDDING.— Mrs. Robert Dollar. 

2 pounds raisins, 1 pound currants, 1 pound beef suet, 2 ounces 
orange peel, 2 ounces lemon peel, 2 ounces sweet almonds, 2 ounces bitter 
almonds, 1 pound bread crumbs, the rind and juice of one lemon, f 
pound flour, 1 pound sugar, 1 tumbler of jelly, 8 eggs, i teaspoon soda. 
Boil 9 hours. This quantity may be made into several puddings, and 
cooked a shorter time. 



PUDDINGS. 69 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING.— Mrs. French. 
] pound suet shredded and minced, lh pounds raisins stoned and out, 
1.} pounds currants washed, 1 pound stale bread crumbs grated, 1 pound 
sugar, 5 pint brandy, 12 eggs beaten light; ] pound of citron, orange 
and lemon peel, 1 nutmeg grated, 1 spoon ginger, cloves, and cinnamon. 
Mix h hour with the hand. Flour and butter a cloth which is just 
dipped in hot water: put the pudding in and tie tightly; boil 5 to 8 
hours; blanch some almonds, put them endwise 2 inches apart over the 
top; after it is on the dish, pour some brandy over; and just as it is to 
be brought to the table, set fire to the brandy that the pudding may be 
in flames. 

ANY-DAY PLUM PUDDING.— Miss A. Gordon. 

1 cup of sweet milk, 1 cup of molasses, 1 cup each of raisins and 
currants, 1 cup of suet chopped fine (or, instead, a small cup of butter), 
1 teaspoon of salt and 1 teaspoon of soda sifted with 3 cups of flour, 1 
teaspoon each of cinnamon and allspice. Mix milk, molasses, suet, and 
spice; add flour, and then the fruit. Put in a buttered mold, and boil 
3 hours. Serve with hard or liquid sauce. 

FIG PUDDING.— Mrs. Wm. Lichlenberg. 

ij pound of grated bread, f pound of best figs, 6 ounces of suet 
chopped, 6 ounces of moist sugar, 1 egg, a little nutmeg, 1 teacup of 
milk. The figs and suet must be chopped very fine; mix the bread and 
suet first, then add the figs, sugar, and nutmeg, after that the egg and 
the milk. Put into a basin and boil i hours. Serve with brandy sauce. 
FIG PUDDING.— Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 

i cup of finely chopped suet, 2 cups of stale bread crumbs, 2 eggs 
Avell beaten, 1 teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon, and ginger, a little 
salt, 1 cup of sugar, h pound of chopped dried figs. Steam 3 hours. It 
is best served with the wine sauce given with the Cottage pudding. 
TROY PUDDING.— A. E. Mencies. 

1 c\ip of suet, 1 cup of flour, 1 cup of milk, 1 cup of currants, 2 cup 
of molasses, 1 teaspoon of baking powder, and a small pinch of salt. 
Boil for 3 hours. 

STEAMED NUT PUDDING.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Mix thoroughly together 1 cup chopped walnuts, 1 cup chopped 
raisins, 1 cup currants, 1 cup New Orleans molasses, \ cup brown sugar. 
3 eggs, 1 cup chopped suet, 1J cups sour milk; sift 1 teaspoon soda and 1 
teaspoon yeast powder with 2 cups flour, J teaspoon each of cinnamon, 
allspice and cloves. Pour into a buttered mold that will be about half 
full to allow for rising. Steam 3 hours. 

SPICE PUDDING.— Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

Put 2 cup of butter and lard mixed, into a mixing bow r l; add to this 
1 cup of sugar, 1 well beaten egg, 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon, } grated 
nutmeg, 1 teaspoon each of allspice and cloves; beat all well together. 
Pour into this 5 cup of molasses, 1 cup of cold coffee, and 1 cup of flour 



70 PUDDINGS. 

with 3 teaspoons of baking- powder sifted thoroughly; add enough flour 
to make a stiff batter; put into this mixture 1 cup of stoned raisins and 
1J cups of currants; add flour enough to barely mold with the hands, 
then turn into a floured cloth and pin loosely, giving room to swell. 
Place in boiling water and boil 1 hour. 

SUET PUDDING.— Mrs. R. E. Neil. 

1 cup of suet chopped fine, 1 cup of molasses. 1 cup of sour milk. 3 
eups of flour, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in the milk: spice highly, and 
.steam 3 hours. 

FREE CHURCH PUDDING.— Mrs. A E. Menzies. 

1 breakfast cup of beef suet; the same of flour, bread crumbs, 
raisins or currants; 1 teacup of brown sugar; 1 teacup of milk: 1 
teaspoon of soda; \ a nutmeg grated. Boil 3 hours. 

STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 cup of sweet milk, 2 tablespoons butter rubbed with 1 cup of sugar, 
2 eggs, .'5 cups of flour sifted with 3 teaspoons baking powder. Mix, and 
then add 1 cup of preserved figs, or dried figs chopped and stewed until 
tender, or any other fruit you may prefer, making- some allowance about 
the fruit being dry or juicy, as to the stiffness of the batter. Fill 
teacups about half full, and steam i hour. Turn each mold upon a 
plate, and serve hot with cream; or sauce can be used if preferable. 
COTTAGE PUDDING.— Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 

Put in mixing bowl first 3 tablespoons melted butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 
beaten egg. 1 light pint of flour with 2 teaspoons baking powder sifted 
with it, and 1 cup of sweet milk last of all. This will seem thin, but 
will make a nice loaf, light and tender. Serve hot with wine or other 
sauce 

BOILED COTTAGE PUDDING.— Mrs. W. B. Bradford. 

1 cup of sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup of milk, 3 cups of 
flour, or enough to make a stiff batter, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons 
yeast powder. Boil in buttered mold 1 hour. Serve with hard sauce. 
GOLDEN PUDDING. 

1 teacup each of finely chopped suet, and of sugar; 1 breakfast cup 
bread crumbs; 2 tablespoons orange marmalade; 3 eggs. Boil 2 hours. 
To be eaten with hard sauce. 

OLD-FASHIONED RICE PUDDING.— Mrs. Thos. Duffy. 

2 tablespoons rice to 1 quart of milk; 2 tablespoons sugar, a grating 
of nutmeg, ] cup of raisins if liked; cook slowly for 1£ hours in a 
moderate oven, stirring down crust for the first hour as fast as it forms. 
Then allow a paper-like cover to form, and the pudding is done. Serve 
cold. Can be made on Saturday for Sunday dinner. 

RICE PUDDING. 
\ cup of rice boiled in 1 cup of water with a little salt; cover tightly 
und cook slowly 20 minutes; then add 1 pint of milk, let it come to a 
boil, and add the yolks of 3 well beaten eggs, also j cup of seedless 



PUDDINGS. 71 

raisins chopped, and 5 tablespoons of sugar. Put in buttered pan; set 
in the oven until the custard sets, then cover with the well beaten whites 
with 2 tablespoons of sugar and a little vanilla; brown in oven. 
BREAD PUDDING.— airs. A. E. Menzies. 
1 quart of milk, 2 tumblers of bread crumbs, -4 eg-g-s, 2 cups of sugar, 
2 lemons, 1 slice of butter. Beat the yolks separately, and mix with 
milk and bread crumbs; add 1 cup of sugar, the rind of the lemons, 
and butter. Boil until thick as a custard. Boil 1 cup of sugar and 
juice of lemons separately. Beat whites of the eggs, add juice, and 
spread on the top for a meringue. Brown in the oven. 

CORN MEAL PUDDING. —Mrs. Darnel Bradford. 

1 pint of milk; as it comes to a boil, stir in \ cup of meal. When 
cold, add 3 well beaten eggs, § of a cup of molasses, i teaspoon of salt, 
1 wineglass of wine, butter size of half an egg, J teaspoon of soda. 
Beat well, and add less than 1 quart of cold milk. Bake 3 hours with a 
cover over it. and stir it every half hour until the last hour. Very nice. 
BATTER PUDDING.— Mrs. McMahon. 

1 quart of milk, 10 tablespoons flour, 7 eggs, 1 teaspoon salt, h 
teaspoon soda. 1 teaspoon cream tartar: bake 40 minutes: eat with hard 
sauce. 

LEMON TOAST.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Beat the yolks of 3 eggs and add 1.} cups of sweet milk. Dip thin 
slices of bread in this, and fry a light brown in butter. 

Sauce. — Beat the whites of 3 eggs stiff; add I <? U P of white sugar. 
the juice of 1 lemon and 1 cup of boiling water. Pour over the toast as 
you serve it. 

QUEEN ESTHER'S TOAST.— Mrs. A. E. Menzies. 
Cut stale bread into pieces 2 inches square and 1 inch thick. Steep 
them well in milk, then dip in beaten yolk of egg, and fry in butter. 
Make a sauce of sugar, water and cinnamon, to serve with the toast. 
BERRY PUDDING.— Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

2 eggs, 1 pint of milk, a little salt, J cup of sugar, flour to make a 
thick batter, 1 teaspoon yeast powder, 1 pint of berries (any kind) well 
dredged with flour, stirred in at the last; boil 1 hour in mold. Make 
sauce. 

BLACKBERRY OR RASPBERRY PUDDING.— M rs. W. F. Junes. 

Put a layer of berries in the bottom of a baking dish and sprinkle 
with sugar; then cover with a layer of thin bread and butter, and repeat 
until the dish is full; have the last layer of bread crumbs. If made 
from canned fruit, drain off the juice and pour it over the pudding last, 
then the sugar may not be needed. Bake in a pan of water in rather 
a slow oven about 1 hour. The blackberry pudding is best hot with 
hard sauce. The raspberry pudding is to be eaten cold with cream. 
STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE.— Mrs. W. F. Janes. 

Sieve well together 1 quart of flour, 1 level teaspoon salt, and 2 



72 PUDDINGS. 

heaping teaspoons baking- powder; rub in £ cup of butter; then wet up 
with milk just sufficient to roll out. Divide the dough into 4 parts; roll 
1 piece in a round shape, put in a deep jelly cake pan, spread the top 
with a little butter; roll out another piece and pile on top of this; 
prepare the other 2 pieces the same way in another pan, and bake in 
rather a quick oven until nice and brown. Then remove from the oven; 
open and spread both sides generously with butter. Have a drawer of 
berries cut up and well sugared ; put half between each shortcake and 
serve at once with rich cream. It is an improvement to halve enough 
of the largest berries to put around the edge of the shortcake, pouring 
berries inside; then cover the top with whipped cream. 

PEACH COBBLER.— Mrs. E. B. Mahcm. 

Fill a pie dish with peeled peaches leaving in the pits; add a very 
little cold water and sugar to taste. Cover with pie crust, prick with a 
fork; bake % of an hour. Eat with cream. 

PEACH PUDDING.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Peel and halve 1 dozen peaches, and sweeten to taste; or use 1 quart 
of canned peaches; place in a pudding dish and put in the oven. Cream 
the yolks of 4 eggs and 1 cup of sugar; add 1 tablespoon water, 1 
teaspoon lemon extract, and \\ cups of flour into which 1 teaspoon of 
baking powder has been sifted, and the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. 
Pour over the hot peaches and bake about 20 to 30 minutes. Serve hot 
with cream. 

APPLE PUDDING.— Miss A. Gordon. 

Fill a buttered baking dish with sliced apples, and pour over the top 
a batter made of 1 tablespoon of butter, \ cup sugar, 1 egg, \ cup sweet 
milk, and 1 cup of flour in which has been sifted 1 teaspoon of baking 
powder. Bake in a moderate oven till brown. Serve with cream and 
sugar, or liquid sauce. Blackberries are very nice served in the same 
way. 

STEWED APPLE PUDDING.— Miss Margaret B re inner. 

Pare and slice as thin as you would for pies 6 medium-sized 
tart apples (Northern Spies are the best), and lay them in the bottom of 
a round baking dish. Stir 1 cup of sugar and \ cup of butter to a cream; 
add 2 eggs well beaten, and 1 cup of milk. Sift together 2 cups of flour 
and 2 teaspoons of baking powder; add the flour to the mixture, and 
stir well. Cover the apples with the mixture and steam 1 hour: serve 
with a cream or foaming sauce. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 pint of flour, \\ teaspoons baking powder, salt ; butter the size of 
an egg, milk to roll. Cover each apple, or whatever fruit being used, 
with some of the crust, and put in the oven. Have the dumplings half 
covered with cold water in which you have put a little butter. Cover 
the basin and let them steam about 35 minutes; then remove the cover 
and let them brown 10 minutes, and serve with sauce. This can be 
rolled out in 1 piece and spread with fruit and made into a roll. 



PUDDINGS. 73 

BLACK BREAD PUDDING. 
Take yolks of 3 eggs and beat with 1 cup of granulated sugar; add 
1 cup of grated stale black bread gradually. Add 1 teaspoon of cinna- 
mon, a pinch of allspice, or a very little ground cloves if desired, Mix 
all together and then add the beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in a 
tube forni or pudding dish; when baked, leave it in the oven, and pour 
1 cup of red wine over it. Serve the pudding with either a Charlotte 
russe, or a rich wine sauce. 

APPLE AND TAPIOCA PUDDING.— Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

1 teacup of tapioca soaked well in water over night (about a pint); 
cook until clear — about £ hour; add 1 cup of sugar, a little salt, and 
lemon or nutmeg; when cooked, pour over the apples after paring and 
quartering them, add a few small pieces of butter over the top to help 
brown it. Hard sauce, or cream may be served with it. 

PARIS SAUCE FOR SWEET PUDDINGS.— Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 
Take 1 glass of sherry, 1 large tablespoon of powdered sugar, and 
the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs; put these in saucepan on fire and stir 
until thick; add slowly 3 tablespoons of cream, without letting it boil. 
FOAM SAUCE.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

2 eggs, butter the size of an egg, 1 cup sugar. Be;it the yolks, 
butter and sugar together thoroughly, add the whites beaten to a stiff 
froth, the juice of 1 lomon, and \ cup of boiling water; serve immedi- 
ately. Very nice with cottage pudding. 

FOAMING SAUCE.— Miss Margaret Bremner. 
Beat to a cream i cup of sugar and 1 tablespoon of butter; add 4 
tablespoons of cream and a few drops of vanilla. Beat with an egg 
beater, setting the bowl in a dish of hot water till the sauce is light and 
foamy. Serve as soon as finished. 

COMMON SAUCE.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 tablespoon flour and 1 tablespoon butter rubbed together; pour on 
boiling water until of the right consistency; add 1 cup of sugar, and 
just before serving, add h cup of wine or 2 tablespoons brandy, or any 
extract preferred. An egg beaten light and added last is an improve- 
ment. 

WINE SAUCE.— Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 

2 cups of sugar, \ cup of butter, 1 cup of sherry with a little brandy. 
Stir butter and sugar till it creams, adding, drop by drop, the wine. 
When mixed, put into the dish in which it is to be served, and set in a 
basin of hot water. Do not stir or disturb it, and when melted it will 
foam as if made of beaten eggs. This sauce is to be used with cottage, 
plum, or any hot pudding, and is delicious. 



GERMAN PUFFS.— Mrs. E. W. Newhall. 

1 pint of milk, 10 tablespoons of flour, 1 tablespoon of melted butter, 
6 eggs, leaving out the whites of 3. Bake in buttered tins half filled, 20 
minutes in hot oven. Turn them into a flat dish, and just before serving 
pour over them the following sauce: Whites of 3 eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. 1 coffee cup of sugar, juice of 2 oranges. 

CREAM PUFFS.— Mrs. Wm. Lichtenberg. 

I cup of butter, 3 eggs, i pint of water, a pinch of salt, flour about 
\ pound. Boil the butter, water and salt: add the flour quickly: boil 
until the dough loosens from the saucepan; if it does not do this quickly, 
add more flour; let the mixture cool; add the yolks and the whipped 
whites of 3 eggs. Drop into boiling lard, the size of an egg: fry till 
brown, and serve with jelly; or bake in oven, and fill with whipped 
cream. 

CREAM PUFFS.— Mrs. R. E. Neil. 

1 cup water, •} cup butter, soda the size of a pea. When boiling stir 
in 1 cup flour, and cook until the mixture will roll in a -ball in the pan. 
Spread out to cool; when cool add, 1 at a time, 3 eggs. Drop into 12 
puffs, and bake 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 
CREAM PUFF FILLING WITH WALNUTS.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

When whipped cream is not obtainable, make the following custard: 

1 pint of milk in a double boiler, 1 cup of sugar, 2 tablespoons of corn 

starch w r et in a little cold milk and added to th boiling milk, 1 teaspoon 

butter, 2 eggs beaten, 1 teaspoon vanilla and 1 teacup chopped walnuts. 

NEW ZEALAND TRIFLE.— Miss F. Alice Brown. 

Cut a stale sponge cake into slices about an inch thick; then put in 
layers raspberry jam, about 12 macaroons, 2 dozen ratafias, 2 ounces- 
sweet almonds, grated rind of 1 lemon, J pint wine, 6 tablespoons 
brandy. Cover with good custard, and then with whipped cream. For 
the whip — 1 pint cream, sugar, the whites of 2 eggs, wine to flavor: 
whip till thick. 

A LADY FINGER TRIFLE.— Mrs. McMahon. 

<i yolks of eggs beaten with a cup of powdered sugar; have on the 
stove 3J good wine glasses of sherry and a little water, into which put 1 
teaspoon of sugar and 1 of vanilla; stir in the beaten eggs and sugar, 
then add 1 large teaspoon of flour made into a paste. Have a deep 
platter lined with lady fingers and macaroons, sprinkle with wine; when 
the mixture has slightly cooled, pour over the cakes, beat the whites. 



LIGHT DESSERTS. 79 

with ti scant tablespoons of sugar, spread over top, let brown in the 
oven: to be eaten cold. 

TRIFLE.— Mrs. A. A. Adair. Riverside, Cal 
Put a layer of cake crumbed up in the dish you expect to serve it 
in on the table: if the cake is stale and dry put a little hot water over it 
to soften just a little. If the cake is fresh the fruit juice will be sufficient 
to moisten it; put in lots of walnuts chopped not very fine, and a 
generous sprinkling of cocoanut; add strawberries or raspberries; cover 
with a nice rich custard; then add another generous sprinkling oS 
cocoanut, and cover the top with whipped cream. This is very nice. 
BAKED PRUNE PUDDING.— Dr. C. B. Brown, S. F. 
Put i pound of prunes and 1 slice of bread through a meat cutter 
together. Add 1 egg, piece of butter size of an egg, milk to fill pudding 
dish, and \ cup of sugar. Bake f of an hour. 

PRUNE FLOAT.— Miss Tena Bremner. 

1 pint milk, 4 tablespoons corn starch,' J pound primes, 1 tablespoon 
sugar, A teaspoon vanilla, 4 eggs, 3 tablespoons powdered sugar. Wash 
choice prunes in several waters, and soak over night. In the morning 
add 1 tablespoon granulated sugar, and stew until tender. Cut a few in 
halves, remove the stones from all, and chop the rest very fine. Put 
milk on to heat, beat yolks of 4 eggs light with 1 tablespoon of sugar 
and syrup from prunes; add to hot milk, also the com starch moistened 
with a little cold milk; stir until it thickens: then remove from the fire 
and stir in the chopped prunes and vanilla. Pour into pudding dish in 
which it is to be served. Beat whites of eggs to a stiff froth with. 3 
spoonfuls of sugar, and put on top of the pudding through a pastry 
tube. Drop half prunes around the top. Put into a quick oven, and 
brown slightly. May be served cold with whipped cream. 

PRUNE WHIP.— Mrs. A. A. Adair, Riverside, Cal 

20 prunes cooked without sugar till very tender and very dry; stone 
and chop fine: beat the whites of 4 eggs very stiff; add a small cup 
of sugar and \ teaspoon of cream of tartar: mix all thoroughly; bake 2 
hour in a pan set in a pan of water. Serve with cream; whipped cream 
is nicest. 

PRUNE SOUF.FLE.— Mrs. J. L. Tharp 

1 pound French prunes boiled and chopped fine; add 1 teacup of 
sugar, then the well-beaten whites of 5 eggs. Bake 20 minutes after 
adding extract of lemon. When cold turn out of pan, and cover with 
whipped cream. 

APPLE SOUFFLE.— Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

Stew the apples, add a little grated lemon peel, the juice, also sugar 
to sweeten; line the sides and bottom of the dish about 2 inches thick. 
Make a boiled custard with 1 pint of milk, 2 eggs, and a little sugar; 
when cool, pour into the center of the dish; beat the whites, add a little 
sugar, spread over, and brown a few minutes in oven. 



80 LIGHT DESSERTS. 

OMELETTE SOUFFLE.— Mm. W. F. Jones. 

Beat the whites and yolks of 3 eggs separately. To the whites add 
2 tablespoons sugar; mix together, flavor with vanilla; put into a 
pudding dish, sprinkle with sugar, bake 15 minutes, and serve immedi- 
ately. 

SAGO CREAM.— plr$. W. F. Jones. 

Cook \ cup of sago in 1 quart of milk until clear. Then add 1 cup 
of sugar and the yolks of 3 eggs. When a little cool, stir in the well 
beaten whites and flavor. Some use the pearl tapioca and cook it the 
same way. 

DESSERT.— Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

Slice the ripe part of a watermelon, and cut it into diamonds, 
squares, hearts, or disks, the size of a mouthful. Put a layer of water- 
melon in a glass fruit dish, cover with sugar, then another layer of 
watermelon, and so on till the dish is full, with sugar over the top: set 
it in the ice-chest till wanted. ' To be eaten as fruit with cake. This is 
a delicious way of serving watermelon. 

CARAMEL CUSTARD.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 quart of milk, 3 eggs, 2 tablespoons corn starch, 1 cup brown 
sugar. Melt the sugar, stirring constantly; then add the milk but do 
not let it boil or it will crack. When near boiling add the corn starch, 
sugar, and yolks of the eggs. When a little cool, stir in the whites and 
1 teaspoon vanilla. Pour into a mold; to be eaten with whipped cream. 

FLOATING ISLAND.— Mrs. C. F. Robinson. 
Put 1 quart milk in double boiler; 1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon of corn 
starch wet in a little cold milk, are to be added to the milk when boiling. 
Remove from the fire, add the beaten yolks of 3 eggs; when cool add 1 
teaspoon of vanilla, and pour into a glass dish. Just before serving, 
beat the whites very stiff and drop over the top. This is nice poured 
over stale cake soaked in wine, over sliced oranges, or over strawberries 
or raspberries. 

BAKED CUSTARD..— Mrs. IV. F. Jones. 

Beat 4 eggs light; add £ cup of sugar, 1 pint of milk, and nutmeg to 
taste. When well mixed, pour into a pudding dish and drop into the 
center .1 cup of nice table syrup; do not stir again. Put into a pan of 
water and bake in a moderate oven until it sets. When cold, loosen the 
edges and turn upon a platter. The syrup forms a sauce. If properly 
made, this is very nice. The use of maple syrup or caramel syrup 
makes a nice variety. These proportions without the syrup make 
delicious cup custards, or a nice boiled custard. 

LEMON CUSTARD.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

5 eggs, the yolks beaten with 1 large cup of sugar; add the juice 
and grated rind of 2 lemons. Cook in double boiler, stirring constantly 
until if bubbles and thickens. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and 



LIGHT DESSERTS. 81 

gently stir the mixture into them. Dip into lemonade glasses, and serve 
when cold. This makes about enough for 11 people, and is very delicious. 

STRAWBERRY CREAM OR SNOW.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Whites of 4 eggs beaten to a stiff froth; 1 pint of strawberries 
passed through a colander and sweetened to taste. Stir gradually and 
gently into the eggs. Other berries and apple sauce are nice the same 
way. 

DANISH PUDDING.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Dissolve 1 cup of sago or the same of pearl tapioca in a quart of 
water, and cook until clear. Add 1 glass of sour jelly or 1 pint of stewed 
rhubarb, and when cold serve with jwhipped cream. With the rhubarb 
do not use quite so much water; but it must not be too stiff or it will be 
tough. Sweeten to taste. 

BAKED BANANAS.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Cook 1 level tablespoon butter, 2 heaping tablespoons sugar, and the 
juice of 1 lemon, in a double boiler until clear. Have 1 dozen bananas 
peeled and sliced once lengthwise on a buttered dish. Pour \ of this 
sauce over the bananas, and bake 15 minutes; then add the remainder 
of the sauce, and bake until a rich brown, basting occasionally. Nice 
either hot or cold. 

BANANAS AND APPLES.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Pare and core about 1 dozen apples; fill the centers and all the 
interstices with bananas cut in little squares and stirred into the above 
sauce. Bake until a rich brown and well done. Serve with cream. 
AMBROSIA.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Peel and slice as many oranges as needed, and fill a glass dish with 
thin layers alternately of oranges sprinkled with sugar, sliced pineapple 
and more sugar, then grated cocoanut and more sugar; repeat until the 
•dish is full. Let it stand a few hours before using. Some prefer 
bananas instead of pineapple, but both will do no harm. 

BLANC MANGE.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 quart of milk, 1 cup of sugar, 4 tablespoons corn starch wet up in 
a little milk. When cooked pour it into the beaten whites of 2 eggs, 
and mold. 

Sauce for Blanc Mange. — 1 tablespoon corn starch wet in cold 
water; pour boiling water over it until it is clear and of the right 
consistency. Add 1 tablespoon butter, f cup of sugar, the grated rind 
and juice of 1 lemon, yolks of 2 eggs; then pour around the molded 
pudding. 

Caledonia Cream for Blanc Mange. —Whites of 3 eggs well 
beaten, 3 tablespoons pulverized sugar, \ cup of whipped cream, 3 
tablespoons of currant and raspberry jelly. Nice without the cream. 

DELICIOUS BLANC MANGE.— Mrs. Wm B. Noble. 

Put 1 ounce of gelatine in a little warm water and keep it on the 



82 LIGHT DESSERTS. 

stove until dissolved; then sweeten and flavor with vanilla 1 quart of 
cream, and whip it. Strain the gelatine on the cream. "Wet the molds 
in cold water, fill them and set away to congeal. 

ARROWROOT BLANC MANGE.-J/cs. D. Whittcmore. 

1 cup milk, 4 teaspoons arrowroot, 2 teaspoons sugar. Make a 
smooth paste of arrowroot and water; stir this into the boiling milk; 
add the sugar, flavor with vanilla; stir all the time until it thickens: 
turn out, and when cold serve with cream. 

JELLIED PLUM SYRUP.— Miss Margaret Bremner. 

Take the juice of any kind of fruit desired. Put \ a box gelatine to 
soak in 1 cup of cold water for 20 minutes; add 1 cup of boiling water, 
and 2 cups of syrup from a can of plums. If the Plymouth Rock 
gelatine is used, no other acid will be needed, otherwise the juice of 5 a 
lemon will improve it. Strain all into a large jelly mold, or cups that 
have been wet with cold water; put on ice or in a cool place until stiff; 
turn out and serve with cream and sugar or whipped cream. 2 or 3 
large plums cut into pieces and put in the jelly while cooking improves 
the jelly. The writer discovered this recipe while wondering what to do 
with a can of syrup left over from canning green gages. 

EASTER PUDDING.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Make 1 quart of wine, orange or lemon jelly; mold in a round basin 
in the center of which you have three saucers turned upside down. 
Save 1 dozen egg shells opened at the small end. and put them in cold 
water. Make 1 quart of corn starch blanc mange; fill 3 of the shells, 
and stand them in a pan of bran or meal. Bruise a few spinach leaves, 
squeeze out a few drops of the color, add to a little of the mixture, anil 
fill 3 more shells. Color some with chocolate, some with the yolks of 
eggs and some pink from a little of Knox's pink gelatine. W r hilc you 
are preparing the eggs, have the skin from 2 oranges or 2 lemons boiling; 
when tender, remove all of the white inside, and cut in little strips with 
scissors; then boil in syrup until clear, and spread out to dry. The next 
day turn out the jelly; around the edge of the nest put the peel for 
straw. Remove the shells from the eggs and pile in the nest; put- 
whipped cream all around the jelly. This is a very pretty dish, and 
delights the children. 

ICED PINEAPPLE CREAM.— Mrs. W. J. Wickman. 

Take a small \ box of gelatine; place on fire with 1 cup or 1 1 cups of 
water, and allow to dissolve. After thoroughly dissolved, strain the 
same through a clean cloth into a pint of grated pineapple; stir thor- 
oughly and continuously until it commences to congeal. At this stage 
stir into it 1 pint of ice cream. Put all into a glass dish (ready for table) 
and set on ice. To be eaten with or without thick cream. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE.— Miss IT. J. Trumbull. 

1J pint-can pineapple, 1 small cup sugar, J package gelatine, 1.} cups 
water, whites of 4 eggs. Soak the gelatine 2 hours in J a cup of water. 



LIGHT DESSERTS. 8S 

Put the juice of the pineapple in a saucepan with the sugar and the 
remainder of the water; simmer 10 minutes; add the gelatine, take from 
the fire immediately, and strain into a tin basin. Add the chopped 
pineapple, and when partially cooled, add the beaten whites of the eggs, 
and beat until the mixtui'e begins to thicken. Pour into a mold, and 
set away to harden. Serve with a soft custard made as follows: 

Custard Sauce. — 2 .cups of milk, yolks of 4 eggs, 1 small cup of 
sugar. Heat the milk almost to boiling, add beaten yolks and sugar", 
stir constantly until it begins to thicken. Remove from the fire and add 
vanilla flavoring; allow it to cool, and when ready to serve, turn the 
pineapple sponge into a dish, and pour the custard around the base. 
SPANISH CREAM.— Mrs. I). Whittemore. 

1 quart of milk, yolks of 3 eggs. I package Knox's gelatine, 2 table- 
spoons of sugar: flavor with vanilla or lemon. Soak the gelatine 2; 
minutes in cold water. Beat the yolks and sugar together, add to the 
scalding milk, heat to boiling point, and add the gelatine, stirring all 
the time till it is dissolved. Pour into a mold and set on ice. 

STRAWBERRY CROQUANTE. —Mrs. J. L. Tharp. 

Dissolve 2 tablespoons of gelatine. Dip a mold in ice water; have 
large firm ripe strawberries; dip each berry in gelatine, and arrange 
around the sides and bottom of the mold. When cold, fill with whipped 
cream, and set on ice to harden. 

NARCISSUS BLANC MANGE.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

\ box of Knox's gelatine soaked in 1 teacup of cold water: when 
dissolved pour over it 1 pint of scalded milk; add % cup of sugar and the 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Set away, and when it begins to set around the 
edges, transfer a spoonful at a *irne to another dish, and beat with an 
egg whip. Then flavor, and add 1 cup of whipped cream. Turn into a 
funnel-shaped mold. I use an old-fashioned scalloped cake pan with a 
funnel. Serve with whipped cream around the edge and in the funnel. 
If short of cream beat the 2 whites, sweeten a little, and add to the 
cream. 

WINE JELLY.— Miss II. Pregge. 

Soak 1 box gelatine in I pint of cold water 2 hours; then pour on l.\ 
pints boiling water, and stir until all is dissolved, but do not set it near 
the fire. Now add the juice of 2 lemons and sweeten to your taste. 
Wring a piece of thin muslin out of hot water, and lay in a fine strainer;, 
strain the jelly through this after adding 1 pint of sherry wine to it. 
Make this jelly the day before you want to use it. 

COFFEE JELLY.— Miss Parsons, Tamalpais. 

3 pints cold coffee (such as is used at breakfast), 1 ounce gelatine. 
Boil 5 to 10 minutes. Set away in a mold after straining through a bag. 
Serve with sugar and cream. This makes 1 quart. 

COFFEE PUDDING.— Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

1 pint of cream whipped light, A package gelatine dissolved in 1 cup- 
milk, 1 large cup of strong coffee, 1 cup sugar, whites of 2 eggs. Add 



84 LIGHT DESSERTS. 

the sugar and gelatine to the boiling coffee, strain and let cool; when 
the gelatine is cold, whip it slowly into the beaten whites until it is a 
firm froth, then add the whipped cream. Mold, and serve with cream. 
CHARLOTTE RUSSE. —J/rs. J. E. Alexander. 
1 pint of cream whipped light, 1 ounce gelatine dissolved in 1 gill 
of hot milk, whites of 2 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 1 small teacup 
powdered sugar, flavor with \ teaspoon bitter almonds and 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Mix the cream, eggs, sugar and flavoring'; add to it the 
gelatine and milk when nearly cold. Line a mold with lady fingers, fill 
with the mixture. Set on ice to cool. 

ORANGE GELATINE.— Mrs W. F. Junes. 

Pare 6 oranges, cut in thin slices (rejecting the seeds), and lay in a 
glass dish; dissolve h box of Knox's gelatine in 1 cup of cold water; 
when dissolved pour over it 1 pint or 2 cups of boiling water, 1 cup of 
white sugar, and strain upon the oranges. Serve with whipped cream 
or cream and sugar. To make variety cut in h dozen bananas and a can 
of sliced pineapple cut into small pieces. To double the recipe for the 
jelly, use the juice of the pineapple and have 2 quarts of jelly instead 
of one. 

ORANGE WHIP.— Miss Tena B re inner. 

Allow 1 quart of thick, rich cream to 6 oranges; make very sweet, 
and whip. Separate the oranges into sections; cut them in dice, taking 
out all membrane, leaving soft bits of pulp. Fill a glass dish with 
alternate layers of whipped cream and pulp, making upper layer of 
cream. Sprinkle top with macaroon crumbs. 

ORANGE BASKETS.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Cut as many oranges as required, leaving half the peel whole for the 
baskets, and a strip across half an inch wide for the handle, that is, cut 
out 2 right-angled pieces each side of handle. Remove the pulp and 
juice, and use the juice for the orange jelly. Place the baskets in a pan 
with broken ice between to hold them upright. When ready to serve, 
put a teaspoon of whipped cream on top of each, and serve on orange 
leaves. It is an improvement to tie a small bow of ribbon on the center 
•of the handle. To each pint of juice dissolve J box of Knox's gelatine 
in J cup of cold water. When dissolved, pour over the gelatine 1 cup of 
boiling water, 1 cup of sugar, the juice of 1 lemon, and then the fruit 
juice; strain through a cloth and fill the baskets. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM PUDDING.— Miss Margaret Bremner. 

\\ pints milk, % cup sugar, 1} squares sweetened chocolate, 5 level 
tablespoons corn starch, | teaspoon salt, whites of 3 eggs. Boil milk, 
sugar, and grated chocolate together; then add the corn starch dissolved 
in a little cold milk; boil for 5 minutes, stirring constantly; then add the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth, and let boil 1 minute longer, stirring until 
•done; put in a mold or molds as desired; serve cold with cream or whipped 
cream. 



LIGHT DESSERTS. 85 

RUSSIAN CREAM.— Mrs. W. F. Jones 
Dissolve 2 box of Knox's gelatine in a little cold water, and when 
soft cook 20 minutes in 1 quart of milk; add 1 cup of sugar, remove to 
back of stove, and add the yolks of 4 eggs. When cool add the whites 
beaten stiff, and flavor to taste. Turn into a mold wet with cold water. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

STRAWBERRY PUDDING.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
1 box of Knox's gelatine dissolved in 1 quart of milk; set it on stove 
and let it gradually heat until the gelatine is thoroughly dissolved. Use 
1 drawer of strawberries, reserving the best for a garnish; strain the 
rest through a cloth, add to the milk, and sweeten to taste. There 
should be about 2 quarts. Set away in mold to cool; when it begins to 
set, stir in 1 cup of 'cream whipped. When stiff, turn on to platter oi £ 
any flat dish, put whipped cream all around, and drop the large reserved 
berries into the cream around the dish. Delicious. 



Suits to Gents' Furnishing 

Order. Goods. 

Houte UBecker 



Merchant Tailor 



s;ecSty ail °F:ne ad :t:ck S o"f GIESKE BLOCK, B ST., NEAR SECOND, 

Suitings always on hand. ^ Rafael 

DRY GOODS, NOTIONS AND LADIES' SUNDRIES. 



86 ADVERTISEMENTS. 



«f f9 San Rafael, 




DRUGGIST 



Prescriptions carefully and accurately 

compounded. A complete stock of Opera HoUSe Block 

Drugs, chemicals and patent medi- • 



TOILET AND FANCY ARTICLES 
AND PERFUMERY. 

None but the Best at WOLFE'S. 

R. M. Donne H. J. Koch 

R. M. DONNE & CO. 

( Successors to Jossa & DuBois ) 



pipe Stationery, 



SiSMSS*. Boo * s ai ? d Periodicals 

Fishing Tackle, Etc. agency for 

All Morning and Evening Papers. 



P. O. 

Box 674 



Hay, Flour, Grain, Coal 



Orders by mail or Telephone 
promptly attended to ... . 

Telephone Black 71. Storage and Commission. 



VANILLA CREAM.— Mrs. Arthur Crosby. 

To a 1 -gallon freezer, take the well beaten whites of 12 eggs, and 
equal parts of rich milk and cream, about 1 quart of each; add 1 table- 
spoon vanilla and 1 coffee cup of sugar. Taste, and if necessary add 
more sugar or extract. The freezer should be a little over f full before 
freezing. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM.— Mrs. Geo. Dodge. 

Hull 1 quart of berries, sprinkle with about 2 cups of sugar, and 
mash them. Let stand until the sugar is dissolved, and then squeeze 
through a cloth. Add 1 quart of cream, and if not sweet enough add 
more sugar. The pulp left in the cloth should be stirred into a little 
milk and squeezed again, in order to get all the berries but the seeds. 
Then freeze. Raspberry cream does not require so much of the fruit 
juice, as the flavor is stronger and richer. 

ICE CREAM— Miss H. Pregge. 

1 quart milk, £ box gelatine, 1 coffee cup sugar, 1 pint cream, flavor 
to taste. Put the'gelatine and milk in a double boiler, and let it dissolve; 
then add sugar, cream and flavoring, and freeze. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI ICE CREAM.— Hoover. 

2 quarts sweet cream, 6 ounces dry granulated sugar, 8 ounces 
chopped glaced fruit, 1 teaspoon extract of vanilla: mix thoroughly 
together and freeze. 

FRUIT ICE CREAM.— Mrs. J. L. Tharp. 

1 quart peaches, bananas, or berries, or a grated pineapple (1 quart 
peaches preferred); pass through a colander. 1 cup water, 2 cups sugar, 
whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff; mix and freeze. 

COFFEE FRAPPE.— Mrs. D. Whittemore. 

1 quart rich cream, 2 cups white sugar, 1 cup strong black coffee. 
Freeze the same as ice cream. 

MOUSSE.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Whip 1 quart of rich cream and add to the whites of 6 eggs beaten 
very stiff. Sweeten and flavor with vanilla to taste; put in mold and 
pack in ice and salt for 5 or 6 hours. If the cream is not rich enough to 
whip thick, whip it to a froth and keep skimming off the froth and put 
into a colander set in a bowl. Whip also that which drains into the 
bowl. When all is foamy, sweeten and flavor, and pack as above, 
omitting the egffs. 



88 FROZEN DAINTIES. 

GOLDEN MOUSSE.— Miss II. J. Trumbull. 
1 pint of cream before it is beaten; 5 eggs, yolks only, beaten stiff; 
6 tablespoons of powdered sugar; 1 teaspoon of vanilla. Mix eggs, 
sugar and vanilla together; add all to tbe cream; put into a can packed 
in salt and ice, and let stand for 3 hours. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING.— Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

1 pint of cream, 2 cups milk, 1 cup of sugar, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon of 
vanilla, and a pinch of salt, (i stale macaroons rolled fine, 12 candied 
cherries cut in quarters and soaked in \ cup sherry, | cup of nut meats 
(English walnuts, pecans, or hickory nuts), and a little citron, 
the milk and cream, add the beaten yolks of the eggs, with sugar and 
salt. Let cool and flavor. Freeze, and when nearly frozen, add the 
beaten whites of the eggs, fruit and chopped nuts. 

ROMAN PUNCH.— Mrs. C. F. Robinson. 

Juice of 2 dozen lemons or 1 dozen limes; juice of 1 can of grated 
pineapple; 1 cup cold water; white of 1 egg beaten slightly; a wineglass 
of Jamaica rum; lh cups white sugar. If not sweet enough to suit, add 
more sugar and freeze rapidly to make it creamy. To be served before 
the game course. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 pint of fresh, or 1 can of grated pineapple; 1 pint of white, sugar; 
1 tablespoon of gelatine soaked in a little cold water; juice of 1 lemon. 
Pour 1 pint of boiling water over this mixture, and* when well dissolved, 
strain through a cloth and freeze. Turn the freezer rapidly and continu- 
ously, to insure the sherbet being smooth and creamy. 

ORANGE SHERBET.— Mrs. J. M. Dollar. 

Soak 1 heaping tablespoon of Knox's gelatine in £ cup cold water 10 
minutes; add \ cup boiling water; when dissolved, add 1 cup of sugar, 1 
cup cold water, and 1 pint orange juice; when sugar is dissolved, strain 
and freeze. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



93 



You u/ill oeuer learr? to Qdo^ 



unless von buv your- 



FUEL 



from 



Yard and office, Fourth St., 
opposite Court House. 



S. H. Cheda & Co. 



Telephone Red 14. 



Telephone Red 81. San Rafael. 

DOWNING & SONS 

Wholesale and Retail 
Dealers in 



U/ood, <?oal, flay, (iraio, 



Corner 

FOURTH ST. and TAMALPAIS AVE. 

Opp. Broad Gauge Depot 



Fecft of all Kinds. 

Charcoal, Coke and Kindling. 



J. T. Cochrane 



P. H. Cochrane 



COCHRANE BROS. 

• Practkal -1bor8e8boers. 

Cor. C and Third Streets. 

Adjoining 

Murray's Livery Stable. 
Particular Attention given to Interfering, Overreaching, Corns and Quartercrac ks 



IRules for Cafee. 

Sift cream of tartar, baking- powder and soda dry with the flour. 

Never dissolve soda in a liquid as it is almost sure to leave streaks, 
and after it is dissolved the mixture cannot be as light as when fermen- 
tation takes place in the dough. 

When soda and sour milk are used always add a little baking- 
powder, and the mixture will be far lighter and will not taste of soda as 
it is almost sure to do if sufficient soda is used to make very light. 

Beat eggs separately. 

Dredge fruit with flour to prevent its sinking, and always add it last. 

Bake cake slowly at first, increasing the heat of the oven when well 
risen. Layer and sponge cakes require a quicker oven than loaf or fruit 
cake. Sponge ginger bread requires a slow oven. Cookies require a 
quick oven. 

WEDDING CAKE.— Mrs. Daniel Bradford. 

(This cake was used at Mrs. Bradford's wedding many years ago.) 

5 pounds of flour, o pounds of sugar, 5 pounds of butter, 5 pounds 

of raisins, 5 pounds of citron, 10 pounds of currants, i pint of molasses, 

2 pint of brandy, 35 eggs, 1J ounces of mace, 1 2 ounces of cinnamon. 

the same of cloves, 2 ounces of nutmeg, 1 teaspoon of soda. 

FRUIT CAKE.— Mrs. Robert Dollar. 

Flour 1 pound sifted and browned, butter 1 pound, sugar 1 pound, 
eggs 10, soda 1 teaspoon, raisins 1 pound, currants 1 pound, citron .} 
pound, orange 2 ounces, lemon 2 ounces, almonds 2 pound, walnuts * 
pound, cinnamon 1 teaspoon, mace 1 teaspoon, cloves 1 teaspoon, allspice 

1 teaspoon. 

BLACK WEDDING CAKE.— Mrs. L. A. Lancel. 

1 pound powdered sugar, 1 pound butter, 1 pound flour, 12 eggs, 1 
pound raisins seeded and chopped, 1 pound currants washed and dredged. 

2 pound citron cut into slips, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 2 teaspoons 
nutmeg, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 pint brandy. Cream the butter and sugar, 
add the beaten yolks, stir well; add the flour, then the spice, then the 
whipped whites with the flour; lastly the brandy. This quantity makes 
2 large cakes; bake at least 2 hours in deep well buttered tins; test the 
cakes well, and be sure they are well done before taking them from the 
oven; put on icing. 



CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 95 

FRUIT CAKE.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 pound of butter, 1 pound of brown sugar, 1 pound of flour, 10 
eggs, 2 pounds of raisins stoned and chopped, 2 pounds of currants 
washed carefully and dried, 1 pound of citron sliced fine, 1 teacup of 
syrup, 1 teacup of brandy, 2 nutmegs, 1 small bottle of lemon extract. 
2 tablespoons of cinnamon, 1 tablespoon of cloves, 4 teaspoons yeast 
powder, and 1 tablespoon of sugar burned and dissolved in a tablespoon 
of water. Stir butter and sugar to a cream, then add eggs well beaten. 
syrup, brandy, lemon, spices, and the fruit dredged with some of the 
flour. This will make a large and a small loaf. The large loaf should 
bake about 3 hours in a slow oven. 

FRUIT CAKE.— J/7*. IT. J. Dickson. 

1 pound of sugar, 1 pound of butter. 1 pound of flour. 10 eggs, 4 
pounds fruit (raisins, currants and citron), 1 wine glass of wine (sherry) 
or brandy, 1 cup of syrup, 1 teaspoon mace, cinnamon and cloves. Beat 
the butter and sugar to a cream with the hand; stir in the eggs, 1 at a 
time, beating well with the hand, after which add the syrup, wine and 
spires, then the fruit, and lastly the flour. Bake 1A hours in tins lined 
with buttered paper. 

MRS. HOAG'S WEDDING CAKE.-J/r... Saw] 

1.} pounds sugar. U pounds flour, 1 pound butter. 3 pounds raisins. 
2\ pounds currants. L] pounds citron, 10 eggs, 2 wine glasses brandy, 2 
glasses wine, 1 cup cold coffee, 1 tablespoon soda, 2 tablespoons cloves, 1 
tablespoon mace. 1 tablespoon allspice, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, and a 
nutmeg. Bake 4 hours. If you choose, brown part of the Hour. 
PLAIN FRUIT CAKE.— Mrs. C. F. Robinson 

1 cup butter. 3 cups brown sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup sweet milk. 
6.] cups flour, 2 teaspoons soda and 2 of baking powder, oeg^. 1 teaspoon 
each of cinnamon and cloves. 1 nutmeg, 1 pound currants. 2 pounds 
of raisins. Bake slowly 3 hours. 

QUEEN'S CAKE.— Mrs. E. R. Donohoe. 

1 pound of sugar. £ pound of butter, 1 pound of flour, 6 eggs, 1 gill 
of wine, 1 gill of brandy, 1 gill of sweet cream, 1 nutmeg; all simmered 
together; raisins and citron to taste. 

MEASURE CAKE.— Mrs. E. R. Donohoe. 

3 cups brown sugar, 2 cups butter, 1 cup sour cream, 5 cups flour. 5 
eggs, 1 teaspoon saleratus; brandy, wine, fruit and spice to taste. 

GENERAL GORDON CAKE.— Mrs. J. L. Tharp. 

i pound butter and 1 pound sugar creamed well together: break in 
1 egg at a time until you have used 10; beat well, and add a paper of 
cornstarch; add 1 teaspoon of yeast powder; flavor with vanilla. Bake 
quickly. 

CIDER CAKE.— Mrs. Daniel Bradford. 

(i cups of flour, 4 cups of sugar, 2 cups of butter, 2 cups of eider, 5 



■96 CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 

eggs, 2 teaspoons of soda in the cider, 2 nutmegs, , 2 large spoons of 
•cinnamon, same of cloves; cider added last. 

A RICH SEED CAKE. 

Mix into J pound butter beaten to a cream, 1 pound flour, 1 pound 
sifted sugar, ] pound sweet almonds blanched and cut, 1 piece each 
candied orange, lemon and citron peel also cut to taste, a little ground 
cinnamon and mace, some caraway seeds, and 8 eggs well beaten. Pour 
into a tin nicely lined with buttered paper; sprinkle some caraway seeds 
on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. 

MRS. RADER'S CAKE.-ilfe McMakon. 

1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 2 cups flour, J cup milk, \ cup chocolate, 
good measure, 1 cup chopped walnuts, 4 eggs, 1 cup mashed potatoes, 2 
teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon and 
nutmeg. Bake slowly. Delicious. 

MARSHMALLOW CAKE.— Mrs. .1. A. Smith. 

1 cup powdered sugar, 5 tablespoons butter. 1 cup milk, the whites 
4 eggs, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Frost the cake; then 
split marshmallows and place on the top of the frosting. Flavor with 
lemon. 

HONEYMOON CAKE.— M, s. Daniel Bradford. 
10 cups of flour, 6 cups of sugar, 3 cups of butter, 6 eggs, nearly 3 
cups of milk, 1 teaspoon of soda, nutmeg or lemon; and fruit if liked. 
LOAF CAKE.— Mrs. Daniel Bradford. 
3 cups of light bread dough, 2 cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter (not 
heaping), nutmeg and cinnamon, 2 eggs, \ teaspoon of soda in 1 teaspoon 
of milk; a little wine or brandy. Bake soon as mixed. 

BREAD CAKE.— J//.s. McMahon. 
1 cup loaf dough, 2 cups sugar. 1 cup butter, 3 eggs. 1 teaspoon 
soda. 2 tablespoons sweet milk, .] cup currants, nutmeg and cloves. 
Beat yolks very light, cream butter and sugar, add spice, milk, soda, 
and dough. Stir all until well mixed. Put in the beaten whites, lastly 
the fruit. Beat the mixture 5 minutes. Let rise 20 minutes, and bake. 

ANGEL CAKE.— Mrs. W. G. Corbaley. 

Sifl ] cup flour 6 times, then add 1 teaspoon cream of tartar, and 
sift 4 times. Sift H cups granulated sugar G times. Beat the whites of 
12 eggs very stiff; add 1 teaspoon vanilla, and gently stir into the flour 
and sugar. Pour into a perfectly dry, ungreased pan with a funnel. 
Bake 45 minutes in a moderate oven; on taking from the oven turn the 
pan upside down, putting 2 sticks under the edge of each side of the 
pan to permit circulation of air. When cold remove from the pan. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE.— Lulu. Stuart. 

1 cup brown sugar, ] cup butter, h cup sweet milk, yolks of 3 eggs, 
1 cup sweet chocolate, 2£ cups flour, and 2 teaspooons baking powder. 
Beat the sugar, butter and eggs; then heat the chocolate and milk; 



CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 97 

when cool, add it to the cake; then add flour and baking powder; bake 
in 3 layers. 

TEA CAKE.— Miss H. Pregge. 

£ cup butter, 1£ cups white sugar, 2 eggs, 1 cup milk, 2 teaspoons 
cream of tartar, 1 teaspoon soda, 3 cups flour, J of a nutmeg, 1 teaspoon 
cloves, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 cup stoned I'aisins. 

SPOTTED CAKE.— Mrs. W. J. Dickson. 

For the white layer mix the whites of 4 eggs, 1 cup white sugar, § 
cup butter, $ cup milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder, and flour enough 
to make a thick batter. For the dark layer mix the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 
cup brown sugar, J cup molasses, § cup butter, # cup milk, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, 1 teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg; 1 cup 
raisins chopped fine, and flour enough to make a thick batter. Put a 
spoonful of the light and dark layers alternately into the cake pan, and 
bake. 

DELICATE CAKE.— Mrs. W. J. Dickson. 

1 cup sugar, \ cup butter, 2 eggs, \ cup milk, \\ cups flour, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder. 

POUND CAKE.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 pound of flour, 1 pound of sugar, § pound of butter, 12 eggs, 2 
heaping teaspoons of baking powder, 2 teaspoons extract of lemon or 
vanilla; cream the butter, and add the flour; beat the yolks, and add 
the sugar. Whip the whites to a stiff froth and add this and the yolks 
gradually to the flour; add the baking powder mixed with a little flour, 
and then the extract. Bake in moderate oven. 

FIG CAKE.— lulu Stuart. 

White part: 2 cups granulated sugar, £ cup butter, whites of 5 eggs 
well beaten, jf cup sweet milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Dark part: 1 cup brown sugar, butter the size of a walnut, 1 cup 
chopped figs, J cup milk, 1 egg, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder. 
Bake the cake in 3 layers, putting the dark one in the center. Frost 
if desired. 

SPICE CAKE.— Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

Yolks of 5 eggs, 2 cups of brown sugar, £ pound of butter, 1 cup of 
sour cream, 2i pounds of flour, 1 teaspoon of soda, 2 of cloves, 3 of 
cinnamon, 3 of allspice, 3 of ginger, 1 nutmeg; bake same as jelly cake; 
put icing between, made of the whites of the eggs. 

WATERMELON CAKE.— Mrs. E. B. Mahon 

Whites of 3 eggs, 1 cup white sugar, J cup butter, \ cup sweet milk, 
2 even cups flour, 1 teaspoon yeast powder; flavor with lemon or vanilla. 
For red part: take the white of 1 egg and the yolks of the others; beat 
to a stiff froth; add J cup red sugar, J cup butter, J cup milk, 1 cup 
flour, and 1 teaspoon yeast powder. Take J of the white mixture for 
the bottom layer; then add red mixture; lay on 2 rows of 9eeded raisins 
so they will be an inch apart, then add the rest of the white for the top 
layer; bake in a loaf tin. 



98 CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 

WALNUT CAKE.— Mrs. Arthur Crosby. 
1J cups granulated sugar, £ cup butter, i cup milk, 2f cups flour, 
whites of 5 eggs, 3 teaspoons yeast powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 pound 
Walnuts before they are shelled. Cream the butter and sugar, add the 
flour, milk and eggs alternately ; add the yeast powder with the last of 
the flour, and dredge the nuts with flour. Chop half of the nuts, and 
put inside, reserving the halves that are not broken to put on the top of 
the cake after frosting. Bake in a sheet tin; have the cake about 1 inch 
thick before baking. 

CUP CAKE.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 cup of butter creamed with 2 cups of sugar, 1 cup of milk, 6 eggs, 
4 cups of flour sifted with 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

BRIDE'S CAKE.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
4 cups sugar, 2 cups butter, 2 cups milk, 6 teaspoons baking powder, 
7 cups flour, whites of 20 eggs. Cream butter and sugar together; then 
slowly add the milk, flour and whites of eggs, stirring constantly; add 
baking powder in the last cup of flour. Bake 3 hours. J of this recipe 
makes a large cake, and is always nice if stirred sufficiently and if the 
oven is right. 

LADY CAKE. -Mrs. Daniel Bradford. 

2 coffee cups of sugar and 2 tablespoons of butter (not heaping) 
rubbed to a cream; 1 teacup of milk, or sour cream; h teaspoon of soda 
in the milk, 2 coffee cups of flour, whites of 8 eggs, and the grated rind 
and the juice of 1 lemon. 

VELVET CAKE.-J/r«. C. F. Robinson. 
1£ cups powdered sugar, \ cup butter creamed; yolks of 3 eggs 
broken into this and beaten well; £ cup water, \ cup corn starch, \\ cups 
flour, 2 level teaspoons baking powder; then add the whites of eggs 
beaten stiff, and flavor to taste. Bake in a long tin. 

SILVER CAKE.— Mrs. Fred Sawyer. 

h cup butter, 1£ cups sugar, 2 cups flour, h cup milk, the whites of 
6 eggs, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, \ teaspoon soda. Cream butter and 
sugar, beat the whites to a stiff paste, add the rest of the ingredients a 
little at a time, reserving a little milk in a cup in which put cream tartar 
and soda, and add to the cake last; flavor to taste, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

SHORTBREAD. 

Put into a bowl 1 pound flour, \ pound rice flour, and \ pound brown 
sugar; mix well together and pour in % pound butter already melted in 
a saucepan, using a clean wooden spoon to stir the ingredients together. 
Divide into 6 cakes, and knead out quickly on the board with the hand, 
using rice flour to dust the board and hands. Prick with a fork all 
over, and slip a square of paper under each cake as it is done; put on a 
baking sheet and bake in a moderate oven until a delicate brown. The 
less kneading shortbread gets, the better; never roll it. 



CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 99 

SCOTCH SHORTCAKE.— Mrs. J. M. Dollar. 

4 ounces white sugar, i pound slightly salted butter, 1 pound of flour. 
Mix the flour and butter with the hands, then add the sugar, and work 
all into a smooth ball, then roll out until it is an inch thick ; prick over 
with a fork, cut into squares, prick around the edges, and bake for J an 
hour in an oven with a moderate fire. Caraway seed candies are nice 
sprinkled on the top before putting in the oven. 

SPONGE CAKE.— Mrs. A. E. Menzies. 

8 eggs, 1 pound sugar, i pound of flour, the grated rind of 1 lemon, 
the juice of £ a lemon. Beat the whites and yolks separately. Mix 
together yolks, sugar and lemon; when well mixed stir in the whites; 
mix in the flour very gently. 

SPONGE CAKE.— Mrs Oliver. 

6 eggs, 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 cup flour, 1 level teaspoon baking- 
powder, a pinch of salt. Beat the yolks and sugar to a cream; then 
beat the whites thoroughly; beat 1 tablespoon of the whites and the 
flour alternately into each other; put the salt and baking powder into 
the last tablespoon of flour. 

WINTER SPONGE CAKE.— Mrs. J. M. Dollar. 

4 eggs, 2 cups sugar, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup 
boiling water, 1 teaspoon lemon or vanilla flavoring, a pinch of salt. 
Beat the eggs and sugar together; add flour, baking powder and 
flavoring; lastly add the boiling water, stirring all the time; this will be 
rather thin but is delicious. It can be frosted with any kind of frosting. 
GOLDEN LETTERS.— Mrs. W. B. Bradford. 

Bake small round sponge cakes, and when the frosting is on and 
hard, dip a small brush in the beaten yolk of 1 egg, and write a word or 
name on top. 

DOMINOES.— Mrs. W. B. Bradford. 

Bake sponge cake in thin sheets, and cut into oblong pieces the 
shape of a domino. Frost the top and sides, and when hard, make the 
lines and dots with a small brush dipped in melted chocolate. Both of 
these recipes make pretty cakes for children's parties. 

SPONGE CAKE OR LADY FINGERS.— Mrs. W. F Jones. 

1 cup of sugar and the yolks of 4 eggs beaten to a cream; 1 table- 
spoon cold water or juice of \ lemon; 1 cup flour sifted with 1 teaspoon 
baking powder; the whites of eggs added last, beaten to a stiff froth;, 
flavor to taste if you use water. This can be pinched through a conical 
shaped paper into lady fingers, or baked in a loaf. For lady fingers, 
bake them on paper on a pan upside down. When baked, pour some 
cold water over the drain, and lay the paper on this damp place. As. 
soon as the lady fingers loosen, remove from paper and place 2 together. 
ICE CREAM CAKE.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Bake the above sponge cake in 3 layers or in muffin rings, and split 
them when baked. 



100 CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 

Filling. — Whip 1 pint of cream and add about \ cup of sugar or 
to taste; flavor with vanilla. Take 1 pound of almonds, shell, blanch, 
and chop very fine, and stir into the cream, reserving- some of the 
blanched almonds whole to put on top. Make soft frosting of the whites 
of 2 eggs and 4 tablespoons sugar; put the almonds on top. 

JELLY ROLL.— Mrs. Geo. Bann. 

2 eggs, \ cup sugar, \ cup flour, less than \ teaspoon baking powder. 
Bake in a quick oven; turn out upon a cloth, spread with jelly and roll 
while warm. 

WHIPPED CREAM CAKE.— Mrs. D. Whitttmore. 
1 cup powdered sugar, 3 eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately), 
li cups sifted flour, 3 large spoons cold water, melted butter the size of 
a walnut; beat well five minutes. Bake in jelly tins (three layers); when 
cold, fill with \ pint cream whipped; frost with soft frosting; flavor with 
vanilla. 

CREAM CAKE.— Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 
Beat 2 eggs and 1 cup sugar thoroughly; add 3 tablespoons cold 
water, 1| cups flour, 1 teaspoon yeast powder. When baked, split and 
put in the cream, made as follows: 1 pint milk, 2 tablespoons corn 
starch, 1 beaten egg, sugar to sweeten; add a small piece of butter; 
flavor to suit; stir while cooking. 

JAM CAKE.— Mrs. McMahon. 

3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, f cup butter, 1 cup jam (wild blackberry is best), 
2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon yeast powder, 3 teaspoons sweet 
milk or cream, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, \ of 1 nutmeg; 
bake in layers, and put together with boiled icing or with whipped 
«ream. 

SPICED FIG CAKE.— Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

Cream £ cup of butter with \ cup of white sugar and \ cup of brown 
sugar; add the yolks of 4 eggs beaten light and mixed with k cup of 
cold water, 3 tablespoons of grated chocolate, 1 teaspoon each of allspice 
and cinnamon, and £ teaspoon of cloves; the whites of 4 eggs well 
beaten should be added just before the last of the flour, and 2 teaspoons 
■of baking powder. 

Filling for this Cake. — J pound of figs chopped, and boiled in 
$ cup of water till tender; then add 1 scant cup of sugar and the juice 
of 1 lemon; boil till it is thick like jelly, and spread between layers. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE.— Mrs. A. A. Smith. 
The whites of 3 eggs, 2 cups of sugar, 1 cup of sweet milk, 2 large 
tablespoons of butter, 3 cups of flour, 2 heaping teaspoons of baking 
powder. Bake half the batter in 2 pans, and add J cup of grated 
■chocolate to the remainder, making 2 layers. When baked, pile up 
alternately dark and light, with chocolate filling between. 

MARSHMALLOW CAKE.— Mrs. McMahon. 
1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, yolks of 4 eggs, whites of 3 



CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 101 

eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 4 cups flour, 3 rounded teaspoons baking- 
powder; bake in layers. For the filling, put £ pound of marshmallows 
on an agate dish, and place in oven until they have melted and run 
together. Make a boiled icing with 1 cup of granulated sugar and J of 
a cup of hot water boiled together until the syrup hisses; then pour it 
over the stiffly beaten white of 1 egg; add the melted marshmallows, 
and beat slowly 5 minutes. Spread this between the layers and on top. 
LEMON CHEESE CAKE.— Miss A. Gordon. 

2 cups sugar, i cup butter, f cup sweet milk, whites of 6 eggs, 3 cups 
flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder; bake in jelly cake tins. 

Sauce for the Same.— Grated rind and juice of 2 lemons, yolks 
of 3 eggs, h cup butter, 1 cup sugar; mix all together, set on stove, and 
cook till thick as sponge, stirring all the time; then use like jelly between 
the cakes. 

ORANGE CAKE.— Mrs. Hoyi. 

'lh cups flour, i cup butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1£ teaspoons yeast 
powder, f cup milk. Bake. 

Filling. — 1 cup sugar, 1 cup boiling water; let boil together; add 1 
arge cooking spoon corn starch (wet up), the grated rind and juice of 2 
oranges and 1 lemon; cook until stiff; after cooling, put it between the 
layers of cake. 

LAYER CAKE.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 cup of sugar rubbed with % cup of butter, I cup of milk, any 
extract, 3 eggs, 1$ cups of flour sifted with 1 teaspoon baking powder. 
Bake in 3 layers. 

Lemon Filling. — -1 tablespoon corn starch wet in a little cold 
water; pour over this about 1 cup of boiling water, 1 tablespoon butter, 
f cup of sugar, the grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, and the yolks 
of 2 eggs. 

Soft Frosting.— Beat the whites of the 2 eggs very stiff, and 
gently sift In -4 heaping tablespoons of powdered sugar. 

MINNE-HA-HA CAKE.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Make the layer cake above, only instead of 3 eggs use the yelks of 6 
eggs for the cake. Beat the whites very stiff, and add gently 12 rounded 
tablespoons of powdei'ed sugar. Take J of the frosting and add to it 1 
cup of stoned and chopped raisins for the first layer. Shell 1 pound of 
walnuts, reserve about 1 dozen halves for the top, chop the rest and add 
to a third of the frosting for the second layer. Put the balance of the 
frosting on top, and dot the halves over. Turtles made of raisins and 
cloves are an addition on top. 

FILLING FOR NUT CAKE.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 cup of milk, h cup of sugar, butter the size of a walnut, 2 teaspoons 
corn starch, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cup of chopped walnuts. Spread while 
hot. Make soft frosting out of the whites of the eggs. 

Cream for Chocolate Cake. — 1 cup sweet milk, 1 tablespoon 
butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup grated chocolate, 1 tablespoon corn starch, 
yolks of 2 eggs and 1 teaspoon vanilla. Make soft frosting of the whites. 



102 CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 

Banana Filling. — Spread with whipped cream sweetened; over 
this put a layer of bananas cut round, with more whipped cream over 
the bananas. Soft frosting. 

Caramel Filling. — 2 cups brown sugar, J cup butter, J cup milk. 
Brown the sugar, stirring constantly; then add butter, and lastly the 
milk. Cook until quite thick, so it will not run. Lastly add 1 teaspoon 
vanilla, and spread while hot between the layers and over the top of the 
cake. 

Cqcoanut Filling. — For the cake part use the yolks of 6 eggs 
instead of 3 eggs. A fresh grated cocoanut is much nicer than any 
pi'epared cocoanut. Beat the whites of 6 eggs very stiff, and add 12 
tablespoons of sugar. Spread a layer of frosting and sprinkle thick 
with cocoanut for the inside layers, reserving a good deal of frosting for 
the top and sides. When the frosting is well spread, sprinkle cocoanut 
over the top and throw it against the sides until the cake is well covered. 
FROSTING.— Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

When eggs are dear make cake frosting by boiling 3 tablespoons of 
milk; when cool, flavor and thicken with powdered sugar; make quite 
stiff, and beat until smooth and light; dip the knife in cold water when 
spi'eading. 

• BOILED ICING.— Mrs. R E. Neil. 

Wet one cup of sugar with enough water to moisten; boil until it 
hairs from the spoon, and gradually pour it into the well beaten whites 
of 2 eggs. 

CHOCOLATE ICING.— Mrs. McMahon. 

Put into a shallow pan 4 tablespoons of powdered chocolate, and 
place it where it will melt slowly but not burn. When melted, stir in 
3 tablespoons of milk or cream, and 1 of water; mix all well together; 
add 1 scant teacup sugar; boil 5 minutes; while still hot, and when the 
cakes are nearly cold, spread on evenly, and set in a warm oven to dry. 
CHOCOLATE FROSTING.— Mrs. J. M. Dollar. 

2 cups sugar, \ cup grated chocolate, £ cup sweet milk; boil all 
together for about 10 minutes; when done, add vanilla to taste, and stir 
until nearly cool, then spread on cake. This will cut nicely. 

SOFT GINGER CAKE,.— Miss Parsons, Tamalpais. 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup boiling water, 1 cup New Orleans 
molasses, 2 eggs, 2 small teaspoons soda, 1 tablespoon ginger, flour to 
make a thick batter, or till it drops in plaits or folds from the spoon 
(more flour makes it too stiff). Excellent. 

SYRUP CAKE,— Mrs. Geo. Buna. 

1 cup sour cream, 1 cup syrup, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon ginger, 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, sufficient flour to mix pretty stiff with a spoon. 
Bake in sheets; to be eaten hot. Eggs are not needed in this recipe. 

SPONGE GINGERBREAD.— Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

2 eggs, 1 cup of sugar, 2 heaping tablespoons of butter, 1 cup of 
molasses, 1 cup of sour milk, 4i cups of flour, 2 teaspoons of saleratus 



CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS; ETC. 103 

(not soda) dissolved in hot water, 2 teaspoons of ginger, 1 teaspoon of 
cinnamon, 1 pound of seeded raisins, £ pound of currants. Mix molasses, 
sugar, butter, and spices together; warm them slightly and beat until 
light; add the yolks when beaten, then the milk; then the flour and 
saleratus; beat well 5 minutes; bake in shallow pans. 

GINGER CAKE.— Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

1 egg, 3 tablespoons of melted butter, £ cup of syrup, \ cup of brown 
sugar, scant \ cup of milk, \\ cups of flour, 1 teaspoon of ginger (more 
if liked), also cinnamon, and 1 teaspoon of yeast powder or soda. 
SOFT GINGERBREAD.— Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

1 cup New Orleans molasses, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 egg, 1 cup flour, 4 
tablespoons of melted butter, 8 tablespoons of boiling water, 1 table- 
spoon of ginger. Mix quickly, and bake from 15 to 20 minutes in a hot 
oven. 

GINGERBREAD COOKIES.— Mrs. Daniel Bradford. 

1 cup molasses, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup of part lard and part butter, g 
cup of milk, and 1 teaspoon of soda; ginger; flour to roll out; to be 
mixed soft. 

GINGER SNAPS.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

2 cups of molasses, 1 cup of butter or lard, 1 level tablespoon soda, 
2 level tablespoons ginger, a little cinnamon if liked; boil the syrup, 
butter and spices together, adding soda last when boiling; then remove 
from the fire and add about 1 quart of flour, or enough to roll. Endeavor 
to roll out without more flour; roll very thin, and bake in a moderate 
oven. When cool, pack away in tight cans to prevent getting soft. 

GINGER SNAPS.— Mrs. Wm. Alexander. 

2 cups molasses, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup melted butter or shortening. 
Let the above come to a boil, then add 2 teaspoons soda, 1 quart flour, 
1 teaspoon ginger, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, J teaspoon cloves, \ teaspoon 
allspice, 1 teaspoon salt. Dissolve the soda, and ppur it into the molasses; 
pour boiled molasses, sugar and shortening into the flour. Roll very 
thin. 

GINGER SNAPS.— Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

2 eggs, \ cup of brown sugar, \ cup of syrup, a piece of butter and 
a little lard, \ teaspoon of ginger, £ teaspoon of soda, flour to suit; roll 
thin and bake slowly. 

GINGER COOKIES.— Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

1 cup of molasses, 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of lard, 1 cup of boiling 
water ; 1 tablespoon of ginger, 2 teaspoons of soda; £ teaspoon each of 
allspice, cinnamon and cloves; roll thin, and bake in a quick oven. 
MOLASSES JUMBLES.— Mrs. McMahon. 

1 cup of sugar; butter size of an egg; mix to cream; add 1 cup of 
flour, and molasses enough to mix it. Drop in buttered pans and bake. 
When done and while hot, roll over a round stick the size of a broom 
handle. 



104 CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 

HERMITS.— Mrs. Geo. M. Dodge. 

Is cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon sour cream, \ of a 
teaspoon soda dissolved in a very little boiling water, 1 teaspoon eacb of 
cinnamon and cloves, 1 cup chopped raisins, 1 cup chopped walnuts, and 
some citron if liked. Mix with sufficient flour to roll; cut out as cookies, 
and bake in a moderate oven. Excellent, and will keep some time. 
HERMIT COOKIES.— Mrs. W. G. Corbaley. 

1 cup of chopped raisins, 1 cup of butter, 1 cup of sugar, 5 cup of 
molasses, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons sour milk, 1 teaspoon each of soda, 
cinnamon, cloves, and 1 nutmeg; flour to roll. 

OATMEAL DATE COOKIES.— Mrs. J. M. Dollar 

Take 1 quart fine oatmeal, 2 cups flour, 2 cups brown sugar, 2 eggs, 
% cup of butter or other shortening, 3 teaspoons baking powder, a pinch 
of salt, and a little milk. Mix the oatmeal, flour, baking powder, salt 
and sugar all together, then add the butter: mix well. Add the eggs 
well beaten with just enough milk to make a stiff dough. Roll out half 
the quantity thin, have some dates stoned, and spread a layer on the 
dough; roll out the other half thin and lay on the top; roll it a little. 
cut in shapes, and bake in a moderate oven. 

TEA CAKES OR COOKIES.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
3 cups of sugar and 2 of butter worked to a cream; 3 eggs, 1 cup of 
sour milk, H teaspoons soda (scant measure) sifted in with some flour, 1 
tablespoon lemon juice or extract, and flour to roll out, but not too stiff. 
Take out a large spoonful at a time, roll very thin, then sprinkle over 
with sugar and a few caraway seeds. Run the rolling pin over again, 
cut out, and bake in a quick oven. Very nice. 

SOFT COOKIES.— Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 
1 egg, 1 cup of sugar, a piece of butter, £ cup of sour milk, a few 
caraway seeds, lh cups of flour and J teaspoon of saleratus. 
COOKIES.— Mrs. t\ M. Angellotti. 
5 cup of butter, 1 cup of sugar, 2 beaten eggs, 2 teaspoons of baking 
powder, 2 tablespoons milk; mix with enough flour to roll out. 

SUGAR COOKIES WITHOUT EGGS.— Mrs. Geo Bunn. 
1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 5 cups flour, a little nutmeg; 1 teaspoon 
soda and 2 teaspoons of cream of tartar. Roll out not too thin, and 
bake quickly. 

COOKIES.— Mrs. Hoyt. 
\ cup of butter, 1 cup of sugar, 1 tablespoon of milk, 2 egg*. 1 
heaping teaspoon of yeast powder, flavor to taste; enough flour to roll 
out very thin. 

BUTTER COOKIES.— Mrs. Wm. Lir.htenberg . 

1 pound of butter, 3 eggs, \ pound of sugar, 1 pound of flour, the 

juice of \ lemon, and the grated rind. Stir the butter to a cream; add 

the sugar, eggs, and lemon gradually; after adding the flour, knead the 

dough, roll little balls, flatten them into cooky shape on the tin, making 



CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 105 

a little hole with the finger in the middle. Bake in a moderately hot 
oven. 

COOKIES.— Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 
1 cup of butter, 3 eggs, 2 cups of sugar, £ cup of milk, 2 teaspoons 
of yeast powder, a little nutmeg, and flour to suit. 

COCOANTJT COOKIES.— Miss Lulu Stuart. 
1 cup cocoanut, 1 cup granulated sugar, 1 cup butter, i cup sour 
milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 egg, flour enough to roll thin; sprinkle with 
sugar, and bake in a quick oven. 

CREAM CAKE.— Miss H. J. Trumbull 
1 scant cup white sugar, 2 eggs, 1 scant cup sweet cream, 1 even cup 
of flour, a pinch of salt, and 1 teaspoon of baking powder. Break the 
eggs into a cake dish, put in the sugar, next the cream and salt, and 
lastly the flour with the baking powder sifted in; then beat it all together 
briskly 2 or 3 minutes. Excellent for layer, loaf or drop cakes. 
WALNUT WAFERS.— Mrs. W. Locke. 
1 cup of brown sugar, 1 cup of walnuts broken into small pieces, 2 
eggs, a pinch of salt, 3 heaping tablespoons of flour. Drop on buttered 
tins, and bake in quick oven a few minutes. 

PEANUT WAFERS.— Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 
j cup sugar, 2 rounded tablespoons butter, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons 
milk, | cup flour before it is sifted, 1 teaspoon of baking powder, 1 cup 
chopped peanuts, 1 teaspoon vanilla, pinch of salt. Drop from a 
teaspoon. 

VIENNA CAKES.— Mrs. Win. IAchtenberg. 

I pound of butter. £ pound of sugar, h pound of flour. 4 eggs, | 
pound of almonds, cinnamon. Melt the butter and use only the clear 
part, as the sediment will spoil the cake. Stir it until cool and thick; 
add the sugar, flour and eggs; spread the dough on the tin with a knife 
as thin as possible; chop the almonds and mix them with some sugar 
and cinnamon as a flavor, and strew this mixture over the top of the 
dough. Bake in a good hot oven; as soon as done take a large sharp 
knife and cut in small squares or any other desired shape. 

CHOCOLATE NUT STRIPS.— Mrs. McMahon. 

6 eggs, 2 cups of sugar, 5 sticks of chocolate (or a coffee cup of the 
grated chocolate), 1 pound of shelled almonds, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 
teaspoon cloves, 1 nutmeg grated, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, flour enough to roll out, and bake in sheets. When dune cut 
in strips. Reserve the yolk of 1 egg, add a little water and sugar, and 
brush with a pastry brush before baking. 

MACAROONS.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Take 1 pound of almonds, shell, and blanch in boiling water; wipe 
dry and chop very fine; then pound in a mortar, and add while pounding- 
1 tablespoon of rose water, or use other extracts if preferred. Beat the 
whites of 3 eggs very stiff; gently add J pound of powdered sugar, and 



106 CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 

then the almonds. When well mixed, drop from a teaspoon small 
parcels on baking tins rubbed with olive oil. Put them 2 inches apart, 
sift sugar over the top, and bake in rather a slow oven. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS.— Mrs. McMahon. 
Whites of 5 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 1 pound white sugar, £ 
teaspoon of cloves, cinnamon and allspice, 2 sticks of grated chocolate, 
1 pound grated almonds; bake in a slow oven. 

MACAROONS.— Mrs. Win. Lichleuberg. 
\ pound sweet almonds, } pound bitter almonds, f pound sugar, 3 
eggs, whites only. Grate the almonds, mix them with the whipped 
whites of eggs and the sugar. Drop a teaspoonful on cake paper, and 
bake in a moderate oven. 

KISSES.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
To the well beaten white of 1 egg gently sift in 1 heaping tablespoon 
of powdered sugar, 1 of granulated sugar and a few drops of vanilla 
extract. Drop on brown paper and bake very slowly. 

CHOCOLATE KISSES.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
To the white of an egg well beaten, gently stir in 1 heaping table- 
spoon of granulated sugar and the same of grated chocolate. Drop on 
brown paper and bako very slowly. 

DOUGHNUTS.— 3Irs. F. M. Angellotli. 
1 cup of milk, and butter the size of an egg melted in; 3 eggs, 2 
teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup of sugar, nutmeg, and enough flour 
±o roll. 

DOUGHNUTS.— .Mia. W. Fraser. 
2jj cups white sugar, 3 eggs, 5 teaspoons melted butter, 3 teaspoons 
baking powder, 2 cups of sweet or sour milk; flavor with nutmeg, and 
add flour enough to roll out. Fry in hot lard to a light brown. 
DOUGHNUTS.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
3 eggs, 1 cup of sugar, £ cup of sour milk, i cup of sour cream, a 
little nutmeg, and flour to roll. Sift in with the flour 1 teaspoon soda 
and a little baking powder. Fry in hoi faL, drain from a fork and drop 
on brown paper as they come from the fat. Sprinkle with powdered 
sugar. 

CRULLERS.— Mrs. Wtn. Alexander. 
1 cup buttermilk, 2 cups sugar, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon soda, i cup 
shortening, and flour enough to roll out easily. Cook same as doughnuts. 
FRITTERS.— Mrs. W. Fraser. 
1 pint sweet milk, 4 eggs, 1 quart flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder; 
fry in fat and serve hot with maple syrup. 



ADVERTISEMEMTS. 



109 



D 
R 

IJ 
G 
S 



...Unman & Son... 



n 



y«ii \|Aanh i The best Drugs or none. 
I UU U/d l/l i The best Drugs at the lowest prices. 

Tide <3i\>e eou Botb. 

PRESCRIPTIONS Accurately compouuded day or night. 

FLAVORING ~ , ( They're pure, 

EXTRACTS Our own make j T £J, S au ^ 

LAXATIVE ANTI-GRIPPE 

CAPSULES Cure a cold in one day. 



^Ourffiotto-j, 1 ^' 



j If it's from Inman's 

COR. FOURTH AND C STS. 

IKofcafes an& Supplies. 



Telephone Red 35. 



MRS. M. COIT 



San Rafael. 

Cal. 



flIMlliner 



Dealer 



Fourth Street, 



Between C and D. 



Velvets, Satins, Flowers, Laces, 
Feathers, Tissues and Ruching. 
Dressmakers' Supplies. Hosiery, 
Mourning Goods, Etc. 



ALEX. SHEVITS 



San 

Rafael. 



Dealer in 



Ladies' and Gents' 



jf inc Sboes 



Full Line of Gents' Furnishing Goods. Boys' and Girls' 
School Shoes a Specialty. All Goods at S. F. prices. 



Cor. Fourth below C St. 



•• 



San Rafael 



PASTRY.— Mrs. Geo. M. Dodge. 

Into 1 cup flour rub 1 tablespoon lard; then wet it with enough 
ice-cold water to make a soft dough. Roll out and spread with little 
bits of butter all over. Then sprinkle lightly with flour, and fold over 
into a roll. Roll out again with rolling pin and spread again with lard. 
Then repeat as first time, and roll in bits of butter the third time. If 
this method is followed and ice water is used, and if the dough is handled 
lightly and quickly, a nice flaky crust will be obtained. 
PIE CRUST.— Mrs. Geo. Bunn. 

3j cups of flour, 1 cup of shortening (half butter and half lard), a 
scant cup of water very cold, a pinch of salt. Handle as little as 
possible. 

PIE CRUST.— Mrs. L. A. Lancel. 

| of a pint of flour, 2 heaping tablespoons lard, 1 teaspoon yeast 
powder, 2 eggs. Mix in a bowl with cold water until the dough is l'eady 
to roll out, not too stiff; roll out into a thin sheet, spread lard or butter 
over it and a little dusting of flour; then roll together; repeat this 3 
times; cover a plate, fill and bake. Spread a little lard on the top crust 
when it is put into the oven. 

LEMON PIE.— Mrs. A. A. Curtis- 

Yolks of 4 eggs, 1 cup sugar, juice of 3 lemons, whites of 2 eggs. 
Whip the whites, and mix with the yolks, sugar and lemon juice; cook 
all together in the mush boiler until thick, stirring all the time. Put 
this filling in the pie crust which should be baked first; whip the whites 
of 4 eggs for the top; and set in oven for a few seconds. Very fine. 
LEMON PIE.— Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

Beat to a cream 4 ounces butter and 2 cups of sugar; add grated 
rind of 1 lemon, and the yolks of 10 eggs well beaten; mix in thoroughly 
lime juice enough to make quite sour, line a dish with rich paste and 
bake it. Pour in the mixture and bake in a moderate oven till quite 
firm, say 10 or 12 minutes. Then spread over it the whites of 3 eggs 
beaten to a very stiff froth with 2 tablespoons sugar and a little lemon; 
smooth cai'efully and put back in the oven till a light brown. Serve 
at once. 

LEMON PIES.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 tablespoon corn starch wet in a little cold water; pour over this 
about a teacup of boiling water; when clear it ought to be pretty thick; 
then add % cup of sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, the grated rind and juice 



PASTRY AND PIEf. Ill 

of 1 lemon, and the yolks of 3 eggs. Line your pan with nice rich crust 
and bake, then pour in the filling. Beat the 3 whites to a stiff froth, 
add a few drops of lemon extract and 6 heaping tablespoons powdered 
sugar. Place in the oven for a few moments until a light brown. 
PINEAPPLE PIE..— Mrs. F. M. Angellotti. 
1 cup grated pineapple, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup cream, 1 tablespoon 
butter, 3 eggs (only the yolks); mix and bake about 45 minutes. Use 
the 3 whites of eggs for meringue. 

VINEGAR PIE.— Mrs. Prodtrottea. 
5 eggs, 2 large cups boiling water, 5 tablespoons vinegar, about 5 
tablespoons corn starch, butter size of an egg, 1 cup of sugar. Put the 
water, sugar, butter and vinegar in a pan, thicken with cornstarch, 
then add the beaten yolks, flavor with lemon and pour into the crust 
(bake the crust first); beat the whites of the eggs with 4 tablespoons of 
sugar, put over the pies, and set into the oven to brown lightly. This 
will make 2 pies. 

CUSTARD PIE.— Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 
3 eggs, 2 tablespoons of sugar, 1 pint of milk, nutmeg and a pinch 
of salt. 

BANANA PIE, NO. 1.— Mrs. A. A. Smith. 
Line a pan with good pastry; slice in very thinly 2 bananas; make a 
custard of 1 pint of milk, 2 well beaten eggs, a pinch of salt and 2 
tablespoons of sugar; pour over the bananas, and bake as a custard pie. 
BANANA PIE, NO. 2.— Mrs. A. A. Smith. 
Make a banana pie with a lower crust only ; bake the crust first, fill 
it with sliced bananas and powdered sugar; the fruit will soften in a few 
minutes; cover with whipped cream, and eat at once. 
SQUASH PIES.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Line the baking plates with nice, rich crust. Steam a Hubbard 
squash, and when done pass it through a colander. For 2 pies, beat up 
4 eggs, add 1 pint of squash, a little salt, 1 cup of sugar, 1 heaping 
teaspoon ginger, and f of a quart of milk. Bake until the mixture sets. 
1 cup of cream in place of some of the milk is a great improvement. 
LEMON CHEESE CAKES.— Mrs. V. Nettle. 
Ingredients: J pound butter, 1 pound lump sugar, 6 eggs, rind of 2 
lemons, juice of 3. Put all in saucepan, having carefully strained the 
juice of lemons and grated the rind. Keep stirring over fire till as thick 
as honey, when it is done. (Will keep in jars for 3 months). Line some 
patty pans with good puff paste, rather more than half fill them with 
the mixture, and bake in 15 or 20 minutes in good brisk oven. 
SWEDISH APPLE CAKE.— Miss A. Gordon. 
Roll out some rich pie paste, brush the edge with yolk of egg, and 
let it bake at a medium heat. Peel 6 apples, cut them into small pieces, 
and mix them with 1J ounces of sugar; cook until quite soft; mix with 
them J ounce of finely shredded orange peel, and the same of burnt 



112 PASTRY AND PIES. 






almonds; add a little cinnamon and some grated lemon, and spread this 
mixture upon the paste. Beat up the whites of 2 eggs to snow. Mix in 
2\ ounces of sugar, and put this into a conical, rolled paper bag; squeeze 
a network as well as a wreath-like edge on the cake; dust it with sugar, 
and put it in to the oven until it is a pale golden color. 

ORANGE TARTLETS.— Mrs. C. F. Robinson. 

3 large fine oranges (juice of 3 and rind 1), 1 cup sugar, 2 dessert- 
spoons butter, juice of J a lemon, 3 teaspoons cornstarch wet with lemon 
juice and 2 tablespoons of water, 1 egg\ beat to a smooth cream and let 
it boil up, then pour into patty tins lined with crust, and bake. 
FIG PUFFS.— Miss Margaret B emner. 

1 pound figs cut in small pieces, 1 cup of water, \ cup of sugar; boil 
the figs until tender; add the sugar while boiling; let cool; make a good 
rich pie crust, roll out a piece, spread the figs on, then roll out another 
piece about the same size and thin, and turn over the figs cut in bars \\ 
inches wide and 4 inches long; bake in a quick oven. These are very 
good . 

MINCE MEAT.— Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 

(From an old English recipe handed down in the Morris family.) 
I beef's tongue well boiled, skinned and chopped fine; 2 pounds of 
beef suet and 8 pounds of tart apples, both chopped fine; 1 pint of 
molasses, 3 pounds of sugar, 4 tablespoons of cinnamon, 2 nutmegs, 2 
tablespoons cloves, a little salt sprinkled on the tongue; 1 quart of rich 
boiled cider (which should be boiled down till it is as thick as syrup) — 1 
quart after boiling. Put everything together and set over a kettle of 
boiling water till the suet melts; then add 4 pounds of raisins stoned, £ 
pound of citron cut very small, and 2 pounds of currants. Wine or 
brandy if you like, and more sugar if-you like it sweeter. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING MINCE MEAT. 

• 

—Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Boil 1 fresh beef tongue and 1 beef heart until tender, in as little 
water as possible, and salt well when half done. Lean beef can be used, 
but is not so nice, for it is apt to be fibrous. Prepare the heart and 
tongue, and chop very fine. Measure, and use twice as many chopped 
apples as meat, and \ as much chopped suet as meat. 1 quart of boiled 
eider, or 1 gallon of cider boiled down to a quart; 1 quart syrup from 
sweet pickles, that from clingstone peaches is best; 1 pint of best brandy: 
the grated rind and juice of 3 lemons; 2 nutmegs,. 2 tablespoons cloves, 
2 tablespoons cinnamon, salt, 4 pounds seeded raisins, 2 pounds currants 
washed thoroughly, 1 pound citron chopped fine; brown sugar and 
syrup to taste. Cook all together in a preserving pan, stirring frequently. 
If too dry, add more syrup or pickle juice. More spices can also be 
added if liked. Put hot in fruit jars and this will keep indefinitely. 
When making the pies, add a tablespoon of brandy or wine to each pie. 



ADVERTISEMEMTS. 



113 



This is the Brand 



Each case 
contains 3 doz. 
1 lb packages. 



(0&£3&to\ 



Each package 
makes 
three pies. 



Ml 



EHCE1 Mb 



LIBBY, McNEIL & LI BBY," 8 """"■»" , 

We are the agents 

Dod^e, Su/eepey 

\J \0. San Francisco 



PSI YQUB 6H0GEH FOB IT 



5C0TT & CO. 



San Rafael 
Cal. 



re 
/Ifeercbants 



Paints and Oils, Hardware, Crockery, 



Gordon Block, Fourth St. carpenters Tools 

Bet. C and D Sts., San Rafael. 



P. E. DUFFY 

Proprietor..^ ^^ 

Carriage jFactor\> 



San Rafael, 

Cal. 



Firstclass Workmen, and Firstclass 
Work. Washers, Rubbers, Etc. 
Always on hand. All kinds of 
Carriage Work done on short notice 



Corner of 



THIRD AND C STS. 



pickles, Qtstips, Ftc. 



OIL CUCUMBER PICKLE.— Miss Parsons, Tamalpais. 

100 small cucumbers the size of a finger, sliced across in quarters; 1 
quart small onions (1 inch in diameter) sliced very thin. Put the above 
into a colander in layers, sprinkling in \ pint of salt. Put on them a 
heavy weight and let drain 6 hours. Put into a large pan the following: 
8 tablespoons of olive oil, 1 tablespoon of celery seed, 1 dessertspoon of 
black pepper; mix well, toss in the cucumbers and onions, and mix again. 
Pack in Mason jars, fill with cold vinegar, and seal (without cooking). 
Makes about 5 pints. 

OIL PICKLES.— Mrs. J. L. Tharp. 

50 small cucumbers and 200 button onions sliced; put in a colander, 
cover with salt, and a plate with weight on it. Let stand 24 hours. 
Mix with it, 1 ounce celery seed, J ounce white mustard seed and J ounce 
black, 1 cup sweet oil. Put in jars and cover with vinegar. 

FOR TWO GALLONS .OF PICKLES.— Mrs. W. F. Junes 

Put 2 gallons of small cucumbers in salt and water for 3 days; then 
wash thoroughly, and put in a jar. Boil 2 quai'ts of vinegar with a 
teacup of whole mustard, a handful each of cloves, allspice and black 
pepper, and a teacup of broken cinnamon all tied in a thin bag; to this 
add 1 pound of brown sugar. With the pickles put a few pods of red 
pepper and roots of horseradish ; pour the vinegar over the pickles, and 
if it does not cover them add more vinegar and let the bag of spices 
remain in the jar. Scald the vinegar every day for 5 days: then pour 1 
coffee cup of molasses over the top and let it gradually settle down. 
MUSTARD PICKLES.— Miss Teua Bremner. 

1 quart large cucumbers chopped, 1 quart small ones left whole, 1 
quart large onions chopped, 1 quart small ones whole, 1 large cauliflower 
pulled apart, 3 strong peppers chopped fine, 3 small ones left whole. 
Put all in separate dishes and cover with hot brine; cover closely to keep 
steam in; let stand over night; in the moiming drain them and put all 
together, adding 3 cups sugar, i gallon vinegar, } pound white mustard, 
\ ounce celery seed; put all in a kettle and scald them. Make a paste of 
'$ cup of flour, 3 ounces yellow mustard, i ounce turmeric powder mixed 
with a little vinegar; turn this in slowly, stir briskly and let it boil up; 
then bottle. 

SWEET PICKLES.— Mrs. Geo. Bunn. 

3i pounds brown sugar, 1 quart vinegar, 2 tablespoons each of 
cloves, allspice and cinnamon in small bags. Boil the syrup and spices; 



PICKLES, CATSUPS, ETC. 115 

when boiling- hot pour it over 7 pounds of fruit; let stand 2-4 hours; pour 
off, boil again, and scald again as many times as necessary, according to 
size of fruit; for peaches about 4 times is sufficient; for smaller fruits, 
such as grapes or plums, 2 or 3 times will answer. 

CHOW-CHOW.— Mrs. Robert E. Neil. 
12 large cucumbers, 4 large or 8 medium onions, 2 heads cauliflower, 
h peck green tomatoes cut in small pieces, 1 quart string beans (white 
wax beans are best) — string as for cooking, and break once; 3 large red 
peppers cut in strips, 50 small cucumbers about 2 inches long used whole, 
2 quarts small silver onions, peeled and used whole. Pack all down in 
salt over night. In the morning wash off the salt, and drain well in a 
colander. Then boil in lh gallons of good cider vinegar, adding 1 pound 
brown sugar. 2 ounces white mustard, 1 ounce celery seed whole. Into 

1 pint cold vinegar thoroughly mix 1 small box yellow ground mustard, 
4 tablespoons ground black pepper, 1 horseradish root grated, and 2 
ounces turmeric; add to the boiling liquid, and boil all together from 
2i to 3 hours. Put into glass or stone jars, while still warm. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE.— Mrs. A. E. Menzies. 
4 quarts green tomatoes after having been chopped, 2 roots horse- 
radish, 1 small teacup salt, 1 teacup black mustard seed, 1 teacup white 
mustard seed, 2 tablespoons black pepper, 2 red peppers (without seeds), 

2 or 3 celery stalks, 1 cup onions (or same of nasturtiums), 1 teaspoon 
each of cloves, mace and cinnamon, 2 cups brown sugar, 3 pints strong 
vinegar. Chop the tomatoes, sprinkle with salt called for in recipe, and 
drain for 12 hours; if onions are used, let them drain with tomatoes. 
Boil for 1 hour; add the horseradish and celery later so that they only 
boil 5 hour. Before closing the jars, fill to the brim with hot vinegar. 

CHOW-CHOW.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

25 cents' worth of green tomatoes and 10 cents' worth of green 
cucumbers, sliced and sprinkled with about 2 cups of salt; let them 
stand over night; in the morning wash thoroughly and cook until tender 
in. equal parts of vinegar and water; when tender drain, and throw 
away the liquid. Slice 10 cents' worth of di'y onions and 1 dozen bell 
peppers, and put them to cook in 3 quarts of vinegar; when tender 
drain off the vinegar, and return to the stove for the sauce. To the 
vinegar add £ cup of ground mustard, 2 tablespoons of black pepper, 1 
cup of flour wet in a little of the vinegar, 4 cups of brown sugar, 1 
tablespoon celery seed. Cook all until the sauce thickens, and pour it 
over the chow-chow. Put in the jars while hot, and seal. In this way 
it keeps for years. Delicious. 

PICCALILLI.— Mrs. W. J. Wickrnan. 

1 peck green tomatoes, 8 large onions chopped fine, 1 cup of salt 
well stirred in. Let it stand over night and in the morning drain off all 
the liquor, add 2 quarts of water and 1 quart of vinegar; boil all together 
20 minutes. Drain all through a sieve or colander, put it back into the 
kettle again, turn over it 2 quarts of vinegar, 1 pound of sugar, I pint 
of white mustard seed, 2 tablespoons of ground pepper, 2 of cinnamon, 



116 PICKLES, CATSUP, ETC. 

1 of cloves, 2 of ginger, and 1 of allspice, and J teaspoon of cayenne 
pepper. Boil all together 15 minutes or until tender. Stir it often to 
prevent scorching. Seal in glass jars. A good relish with meat or fish. 

PICKLED EGGS.— Mrs. W. J. Wickman. 

3 dozen eggs boiled hard; drop in cold water, remove the shells, and 
pack them when entirely cold in a wide-mouthed jar large enough to let 
them in or out without breaking. Take as much vinegar as will cover 
them entirely, and boil in it white pepper, allspice, and a little root 
ginger; pour this over the eggs in the jar, occasionally putting in a 
tablespoon of white and black mustard seed mixed, a small piece of race 
ginger, a garlic if liked, horseradish ungrated, whole cloves, and a very 
little allspice. Slice 2 or 3 green peppers and add in very small quantities. 
They will be fit for use in 8 or 10 days. 

TOMATO CATSUP.— Miss Parsons, Tamalpais. 

2 quarts of tomatoes skinned and chopped, \\ pints vinegar ; \ 
pound brown sugar, § pint New Orleans molasses. 1 teaspoon red pepper, 

2 tablespoons salt, 2 onions (2 inches in diameter) chopped fine, 3 table- 
spoons winter squash steamed and mashed. Mix all together and boil 
down to 5 the original quantity. Excellent. Makes about 3 quarts. 

TOMATO CATSUP.— Mrs. A. A. Sunlit. 

Scald and strain tomatoes through a sieve to remove seeds and 
skins; then add to each gallon of juice 3 tablespoons of salt, 4 of ground 
mustard, 3 of black pepper, 2 of allspice, 2 of cinnamon, 1 of cloves. 1 
teaspoon of cayenne pepper, 1 pint of white wine vinegar; simmer 
slowly for 4 hours, bottle and cork tight. 

APPLE CATSUP.— Miss Te.na Bremner. 

Stew apples in as little water as possible, and to T cups of pulp add 
1J cups sugar, 1 teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 
1 teaspoon ginger, and 2 medium-sized onions chopped very fine. Beat 
well together, and then add 1 tablespoon salt and 1 cup vinegar- Stir 
well until all the ingredients are blended, then boil 1 hour and bottle 
while hot. Fill top of jar with vinegar to exclude air and prevent 
mould. 

CHILI SAUCE.— Mrs. J. L. Tharp. 

8 large tomatoes, 4 large Chili peppers, 4 red peppers. 1 large onion, 

1 tablespoon of sugar, 1 of ginger, 1 of cloves, 1 of allspice, 1 of salt. 2 
cups of vinegar. Boil down to half the quantity. 

CHILI SAUCE.'— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
12 large ripe tomatoes pared, 2 large onions, 4 bell peppers, 1 table- 
spoon salt, 4 tablespoons sugar, and 2 teacups vinegar; chop the onions 
and peppers fine, put all together in a kettle, and let them simmer about 

2 hours when it should be quite thick. If one likes a hotter sauce, use 
the long peppers; but I prefer the flavor of the others. 

SPICED CURRANTS.— Mrs. J. L. Tharp. 
5 pounds picked currants, 4 pounds sugar, 1 pint of vinegar, £ table- 



PICKLES, CATSUPS, ETC. 117 

spoon ground cloves, \ tablespoon allspice, \ tablespoon cinnamon, 1 
dozen whole cloves. Put all together and boil \ of an hour. 
SPICED CURRANTS.— M rs. W. F. Jones. 

5 pounds of currants, 4 pounds of sugar, 1 pint of vinegar, 1 table- 
spoon ground cloves, 2 tablespoons cinnamon; cook all until quite rich. 
To make Currant Soy pass the mixture through a sieve, and cook until 
thick. 

FRENCH MUSTARD.— Miss L. P. Trumbull. 

1 egg, 1 teaspoon butter, 2 heaping tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon 
salt, 3 heaping tablespoons mustard, '{ cup vinegar and a speck of 
cayenne pepper. Reat the egg, dissolve the mustard in a little vinegar, 
and add the other ingredients; put in a double boiler or in a bowl over 
the teakettle, and stir until it thickens. This will keep a long time. 
TO PICKLE OLIVES.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Dissolve a 1 -pound can of Babbitt's Potash in 5 gallons of water. 
Wash the olives and put in only enough to have the lye simply cover 
them. Stir every few hours and taste. When the bitter is almost gone 
(the time varying from 24 hours to 9 days), pour off the lye and soak in 
clear cold water, changing frequently until the lye taste is all gone, but 
the olives must not get soft or mushy. Make a brine of 14 ounces of 
salt to a gallon of water, and pour it cold over the olives. Bottle cold, 
filling the bottles well. I have excellent results preserving ripe olives by 
this recipe. 



118 ADVERTISEMEMTS. 

HARDING. & REILLY ESf&** 

practical 

1bor8C8bocrs.ji phoueBiack 2i 






Particular attention given to 

trotting horses, flesh foundering, 

quarter cracks, pigeon toeing, THIRD STREET, 

Knee sprung, overreaching . . Bet> B &nd c 

H. A. GORLEY "****&, 

Dealer in 
Foreign and Domestic WJ«« (S00b9 

Hats and caps, ^ Gents' Furnishing Goods 

Rubber Goods, at City prices 

809 and 811 Fourth St. 

The Oldest and most reliable dry goods house in San Rafael. 

E. H. CONWAY Teleph p!ed 2I 

plumbing 

anb (Bas^jffttfng 

STOVES OF ALL KINDS 

KITCHEN UTENSILS bet. second 

San Rafael, Cal. AND THIRD. 

A. B. THOMSON 




Linens imported from Europe direct San Rafael 



x Jellies and pWiifs. x 



IRules. 

Make all jellies or preserves in granite or porcelain pans. 

Fruit for jelly should be not quite ripe. 

Fill the jars, run a knife to the bottom and then around the edge, 
that the air bubbles may rise. 

Have the fruit hot, fill the jars full, screw the covers tight (the 
rubber rings must be new each year); to test the tightness of the covers, 
turn the jars upside down and let them so remain for several hours. 

Boiling jelly after the sugar is in makes it dark in color. 

Fruit steamed in the jar, and a syrup poured over it afterwards, is 
nicest. 

CURRANT JELLY.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Cook the currants on the stems, after they have been carefully 
picked over; put into a bag and let drain; measure and return to the 
fire and boil 15 minutes; then add an equal quantity of granulated sugar 
warmed in the oven, and boil 5 minutes longer; pour into glasses. If 
the flavor of raspberries is liked, cook with the currants about 2 little 
baskets of raspberries to 1 small drawer of currants. After using the 
juice that drained off, squeeze the bag and make jelly which will not be 
so clear but does well for puddings and cakes. Skim thoroughly as 
it boils. 

QUINCE JELLY.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Wipe the quinces carefully, then quarter them, removing nothing 
but the blows or any imperfect part, put on in just sufficient cold water 
to cover the fruit; cook until tender, stirring from the bottom carefully, 
but do not break the fruit, or the juice will not run. Drain through a 
bag and squeeze (for this jelly will be clear if squeezed, and much more 
juice will be obtained); measure and return to the fire and boil from \ to 
1 hour according to whether the juice is watery or rich; add an equal 
amount of sugar which has been heated in the oven, and boil until it 
begins to jelly around the pan or drops from the spoon. Skim carefully. 
Jelly can be made from the cores and rinds left from making preserves. 
In making preserves steam the fruit until a little tender, then pour the 
syrup over, and the fruit will not be leathery. 

GRAPE JELLY.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Wash the grapes (Isabellas are the best); pick from the stem, and 
proceed as in currant jelly. To prevent crystals forming after the jelly 
gets a little old, cook a small proportion of juicy apples, as you cook 



120 JELLIES AND FRUITS. 

quinces, and add their juice to the grape juice. The apples also help to 
make a firmer jelly. Proceed as in other jelly, cooking about 1 hour 
before adding the sugar. 

TO KEEP JELLY FROM MOULDING.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Cover the jelly with thin brown paper; then melt in a saucepan 
some paraffine and pour over the paper to the depth of a quarter of an 
inch, and pour back into the saucepan immediately from the jelly glass; 
it will leave a thin coating over the top which will keep the jelly 
perfectly. I have used this with good success for many years. 
QUINCE HONEY.— Miss A. Gordon. 

5 nice quinces pared and grated, 1 pint of water, 5 pounds of 
granulated sugar; stir the grated quinces into the boiling sugar and 
water; cook 15 minutes, .pour into glasses, and let cool before covering. 
RHUBARB SAUCE.— Miss H. Pregge. 

Cut up the rhubarb into small pieces, leaving all the tender skin on; 
then put into a double boiler with sugar enough to sweeten, and cook 
until tender. This is very nice. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Put 1 quart of well picked cranberries into 1 pint of boiling water, 
and boil rapidly until done; then press through a colander, return to 
the fire, add 2 cups of sugar, and cook a short time. The flavor is more 
delicate when it is brought to a half -jellied consistency. 

ORANGE MARMALADE.— Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 

Slice 1 dozen oranges skins and all, with a potato slicer (the kind 
that comes for Saratoga potatoes); weigh the sliced fruit, and to each 
pound add H pints of water and boil for J of an hour; then let it stand 
for 24 hours; weigh it again, and to each pound add li pounds of sugar 
and the juice of 1 lemon, and boil for 25 minutes, not longer. Use 
common sour oranges, taking out the seeds as you slice them. Delicious 
and very easy to make. 

ORANGE MARMALADE.— Mrs. Oliver 

(3 pounds bitter oranges, 6 pounds sugar; peel the oranges and boil 
the skins till tender; rub the inside of each orange through a sieve to 
keep back the seeds; put the pulp and skins with the sugar, and boil 
half an hour. 

ORANGE MARMALADE.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Take about 2 dozen nice juicy oranges, grate the rind of half of 
them and pare the other half. Cook the parings until tender, in plenty 
of water, throwing away the water. Carefully separate the seeds and 
white part from the juice and pulp. When the skins are well cooked, 
remove all the white coating inside, and clip the rind with scissors into 
fine strips. Measure or weigh both the rind and pulp, and put it on to 
boil for about an hour; then add the same amount of heated sugar, and 
let this boil until the right consistency is reached, stirring constantly. 
It can be tested by putting a little in a saucer on ice or in any cool place. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



121 



KELLY BROS. 

™ e • • Xeabing 
plumbers 



And Dealers in 



Telephone 

Red 13 



Plumbing Supplies, Hardware, Garden Hose, Stoves, 

Tinware, Agateware, Bicycles, Paints, 

Oils, Electric Supplies. 



R. MAGNES 



Established 1S78. 



Dealer in 



Boots and Shoes 

Gents' Furnishing Goods 

DRY GOODS, CLOTHING AND HATS 

Opera House Block, Buying my goods for cash, i 

r can and do sell cheaper than 

Fourth St. bet. C and D anyone else. 

San Rafael 



EUGENE W.SMITH 

Practical 
Shoemaker 



Ladies' and Children's Shoes a Specialty 
All work promptly attended to ... . 



San Rafael 



B St. bet. 3rd and 4th 

REPAIRING DONE. 



Phillips "W^ire Fence 



Cheap, 
Durable, 
and Orna= 
mental 



The wire work costs from 4 to 15 cents per 
running foot according to the mesh. 




W. N. ROSS, 

Agent Marin Co. 



CREAM CANDY.— Miss Tena Bremner. 
2 cups granulated sugar, h cup cold water, \ teaspoon cream of 
tartar, 1 teaspoon vanilla, almond, or any flavoring desired. Boil sugar, 
cream of tartar and water together until it hairs from the spoon; add 
the flavoring; set it in a cool place, and when nearly cold beat it until 
light and creamy; when cold enough to handle, mold into any shapes 
desired; place on a platter to harden. Melt unsweetened chocolate in a 
double boiler, and with a long pin dip the creams into the chocolate and 
set aside to cool. A nice variety may be made by removing the pits 
from dates, and filling with plain cream shap3d to fit, or with cream into 
which chopped nuts have been mixed. Almonds blanched and placed 
on the creams before they are quite cool, or walnuts halved and creams 
put between them, make a variety. 

FRENCH CREAM CANDY.— Mrs McMahon. 
5 cups of granulated sugar, 2 cups of water, \ teaspoon of cream of 
tartar; stir all together, then put on the stove and boil without stirring 
about an hour, until it threads; with a wet cloth, constantly wipe around 
the edge to prevent it from going to sugar. When done, put the pan in 
cold water to cool, not letting it get too cold; when cool beat it until 
stiff, then knead it on a marble slab until all lumps are out; flavor and 
work into creams. 

MAPLE CREAM.— Mrs J. L. Tharp. 
2 cups of maple sugar, .} cup of cream, j cup almonds blanched and 
chopped. Boil until crisp in water. Put in the nuts after baking from 
the fire, stirring until cool. 

PEANUT CANDY.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Prepare 1 pint of shelled peanuts in a square pan, rubbing off all 
the skins. Put 2 cups of granulated sugar over the fire dry. and stir 
constantly until melted; then pour it over the candy. Great care must 
be used to prevent the sugar from burning. 

PANACHE CANDY.— Mrs. Oliver. 
4 cups brown sugar, 1 cup milk, the meats of 2 pounds of walnuts 
broken, 1 large tablespoon vanilla; boil all together over a slow fire till 
it sugars around the edge of the kettle; stir constantly; pour into a 
buttered dish, and cut into squares while warm. 

TOFFEE CANDY.— Miss Agnes I. Menties. 
2 cups of sugar, 2 tablespoons brown sugar, 1 tablespoon water, 1 
tablespoon any flavoring preferred. It is done when it has boiled 20 
minutes. 



CONFECTIONERY. 12.'] 

MOLASSES CANDY.-- Miss May Dollar. 

1 cup of molasses, 3 tablespoons of brown sugar, 1 tablespoon of 
butter, 2 tablespoons of vinegar: boil 20 minutes; flavor as you like; 
make it with New Orleans molasses. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS.— Miss May Hollar. 

1 cup of molasses, jj cup of white sugar, \ pound of chocolate, 1 
heaping tablespoon of butter; boil until hard, then pour into buttered 
plates, and when hard, cut into squares. Stir while boiling. 
VANILLA CREAM TAFFY.— Hoover. 

Weigh 4 pounds of white sugar; place it in a kettle; add to this 2 
tablespoons of vinegar, 1 pint of rich cream and 2 ounces of butter; set 
the kettle on a moderate fire, and stir and cook the batch to a slight 
crack; pour out on buttered plates or a marble slab, and let it become 
cool enough to handle; then pull the batch, and flavor with 1 teaspoon 
of vanilla extract, when it will be ready for use. 

TAFFY.-J/ws Agnes I. Menzies. 

3 cups brown sugar, 1 tablespoon molasses, 11 tablespoons butter, 1 
tablespoon cream, a pinch of cream of tartar; flavor with vanilla : put 
in a buttered pan large enough to make the candy thin. Stir all the 
time. 

TO PREPARE SALTED ALMONDS.— Miss A. Gordon. 

Blanch them by pouring hot water on them. When they are 
blanched and dry, measure them, and over each cupful of nuts pour 1 
tablespoon of best olive oil; then sprinkle with a tablespoon of salt for 
each cupful of nuts, mixing thoroughly. Put in not too hot an oven 
for about 10 minutes, or until they are nicely browned. 

SALTED ALMONDS.— Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

I have tried salting almonds in the oven, in butter, in olive oil, by 
sprinkling them over night with salt and roasting dry; but I find 
the most satisfactory way is to heat a little olive oil in a very small 
saucepan, drop a few of the almonds in and fry them as I would 
doughnuts. When brown, skim them out, throw them on brown paper 
and sprinkle with salt. As long as the olive oil is not burned, it can be 
used again by adding a little more oil to it. 



124 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



GO TO HOOVER'S 



I 



lor . . . 



fine Canutes 



Ice Cream Soda 
a Specialty 

SALTED ALMONDS. FRUIT ICES TO ORDER. 



KINSELLA & JOHNSON 



Dealers in 



Agents 
Rochester 
Lamps. 



Hardware 



Am! all 
kinds of 



HOUSE 

FURNISHING 

GOODS 




PLUMBING 

AND 

GAS=FITTING 



B Street, bet. Third and Fourth. 



Telephone Red 31. 



x IV nK<s. x x 



J)rii)ks. 



ORANGEADE.— Hoorei 



To 1 quart of iced water add 4 ounces of dry granulated [sugar, the 
juice of 2 lemons and 3 oranges; mix thoroughly together until all the 
sugar is dissolved, when it will be ready to serve. A good summer drink. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB.— Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

Cover the raspberries with best vinegar, and let them lay over night. 
In the morning mash the berries and squeeze through a coarse bag. To 
every pint of juice add 1 pint of sugar. Boil 20 minutes. When cool, 
bottle. This will make quite a thick syrup, which must be diluted when 
drank. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR.— Mrs. J. M. Dollar. 

Put 4 quarts of red raspberries into an earthen or granite vessel: 
cover with good vinegar, and let stand for 24 hours; scald and strain; 
add 1 pound of sugar to every pint of juice; boil for about 20 minutes: 
skim well, and bottle. 

CURRANT AND RASPBERRY SYRUP.— Mrs. J. M. Dollar. 

Take 8 pounds of very ripe red currants, pick off all the stems, and 
put them into a wide earthen pan; then squeeze them until the juice is 
all crushed out; leave them in the pan with the juice for 24 hours. Put 
2 pounds of raspberries in a saucepan with 2 teacups of water, and boil 
them for a few minutes until they are all crushed; then squeeze all 
through a jelly bag or hair sieve, pressing well to get all the juice out; 
weigh the juice, and for every pound put 2 pounds of loaf sugar broken 
into pieces. But the sugar into a preserving kettle with 1 pint of water, 
pour all the juice on it, let it boil for J hour, stirring frequently; then 
put it into small bottles and cork it for use. 2 tablespoonfuls in a glass 
of water makes a very refreshing drink in summer. Cherry syrup may 
be made in the same way with Morella cheries. 

NECTAR CREAM.— Miss L. P. Trumbull. 

2 quarts boiling water, 3h pounds white sugar, 4 ounces tartaric acid, 
whites of 6 eggs, .2 ounces wintergreen essence or any other preferred. 
Put sugar in water, and boil 10 minutes, then the acid and let it boil up: 
let it stand till milk-warm; beat the eggs stiff, stir them in with the 
wintergreen, and put in bottles; Mix 2 tablespoons of this cream in a 
glass of water-, with a wee bit of soda; beat and drink. 

RHUBARB WATER.— Mrs. J. M. Dollar. 

Cut up about 6 or 8 sticks of rhubard without peeling (wash well 
first), put into a stewpan, add 1 quart water, and boil for about 15 



126 DRINKS. 



minutes; then strain into a pitcher, and add sugar and lemon juice. 
When cold it is fit for use. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL.— J/,. s. 11. E. Neil 

2 quarts blackberry juice, 2 pounds granulated sugar, J- ounce 
cinnamon, J- ounce cloves, \ ounce allspice; simmer 20 minutes; when 
cold add 1 pint of the best brandy; then bottle and seal tight. 
CHOCOLATE.— Miss H. Pregge. 

With 4 tablespoons of grated chocolate mix 1 of sugar, and wet 
with 1 of boiling water; rub this smooth with the bowl of the spoon, 
and then stir it into 1 pint of boiling water; let this boil up once; then 
add 1 pint of good milk; let this boil up again, and serve. A spoonful 
of whipped cream put on top of each cupful is quite an improvement. 






G. W. CLARK & CO. &££" 

IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS 



Foreign and 
American 



Wall Paper 



•- Interior Decorators -» 

and manufacturers of 

6^3 Market St. WINDOW SHADES 

San Francisco, Cal. 
WM. SALE -^ Pian °ln dt S o a Rent. 



furniture, Carpets, 
XElttboIstctvj Paper Han s in s s ' pic ' 

Vi^lA'WVWl^ Frames. Spring Beds, 3 



Picture 
, Mat- 
tresses, Pillows 



ALL KINDS OF PLAIN AND FANCY FURNITURE 
MADE TO ORDER. 

608 Fourth Street Marin Co. Furniture Warehouse 

San Rafael Order by Telephone. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



127 



Fine Carpetings, 

-Elegant Upholstery , 

Rich Furniture. 



fPLUM % HILLS. 
Dl - 



INCORPORATE!* 

f% if 




1301^1307 



fe .....CORNER Op 

street 



Chas. M. Plum & Co. 

Upholstery Company, 



1301 to 1307 Market Street, 



Cor. Ninth, S. F 



BEEF TEA.— Mrs. D. WTdUemore. 

Rules. — 1. Never let beef tea boil. 2. Always begin with cold 
water. 3. The finer the beef is cut the better. 4. There should be no 
fat, gristle or bone. 5. The proportion of beef and water is 1 pint of 
water to 1 pound of meat. 6. After being carefully made, remove all 
fat from the surface after it gets cold. 

Put 1 pound of beef into a glass 'fruit jar with 1 pint of cold water; 
let it soak for 2 hours; screw on the top and then set the jar into a vessel 
of boiling water, and boil for 3 hours; strain and salt to taste. The last 
vestige of fat can be removed with a piece of white blotting paper. 
MUTTON BROTH.— Mrs. D. Whittemore. 

11 pounds lean mutton, ] quart of cold water, salt to taste. Cut the 
mutton into thin slices, let it simmer in the cold water for 1 hour: then 
let it boil for 1 hour longer, and strain the broth through a sieve. This 
may be thickened with a little sago, if desired; or may be eaten with 
toasted crackers. This broth is more nourishing than beef tea. 
OATMEAL GRUEL.— Mrs. D. Whittemore. 

1 cup oatmeal, 2 quarts water, h teaspoon salt. Boil slowly until 
reduced to 1 quart: strain, and thin with milk if desired. 

CORN MEAL GRUEL.— Mrs. D. Whittemore. 

1 cup corn meal, 1 quart water, 1 pinch salt. Make a thin paste of 
eornmeal, mashing out all the lumps; stir it into the boiling water, and 
let it boil i of an hour, being very careful it does not burn. Corn meal 
gruel must always be well cooked. 

ALBUMEN WATER.— Mrs. D. Whittemore. 

I pint of cold water, whites of 2 eg^'s. 1 teaspoon sugar of milk. 
Drop the whites of the eggs into the water, stir gently until well mixed, 
then sweeten; give cold. A valuable aid in nourishing a child when sick 
with diarrhea. 

UNLEAVENED WAFERS.— Mrs. D. Whittemore. 

Mix 1 quart of flour into a stiff dough with sweet milk into which a 
little salt has been stirred ; roll out very thin, cut into round cakes, roll 
these out again very thin; hake quickly. These wafers are easily 
digested and are very delicate. 

TONIC— Miss Kale O'Neill 

Yolk of 1 egg, 1 dessertspoon of best brandy, h glass of barley water, 
white of 1 egg. Beat well together the yolk of the egg and the dessert- 
spoon of brandy; add .] glass of barley water (boiled and strained), and 
S3ason to taste. Then stir in slowly the well beaten white of the egg. 
Take a wineglassful night and morning. 



BOSTON HARD SOAP. 

5 pints melted grease strained. 1 pound of Babbitt's Potash, 1 pint 
boiling- water poured over the potash, 1 quart of cold water added to 
the above. When the potash cools, pour the grease into it, stir until 
thick, then set away until the next morning. Set it on the stove, and 
add 5 quarts of hot water: when melted add 3 cup of powdered borax 
and same of sugar; let it simmer J hour; pour into dishes and let it 
stand until the next morning; then cut the soap into pieces and put 
away in a dry place for 6 months before using. In saving grease, save 
all kinds. Very good. 

LINIMENT.— Mrs. Robert Dollar. 
Equal quantities each of ether, oil of juniper, spirits of camphor 
and hartshorn. 

TO REMOVE GRASS STAINS. 
Dip the stained part in kerosene oil, and rub well between the fingers: 
then rub in clear cold water until the stains disappear. 
TO REMOVE MILDEW. 
1 ounce soap, 1 ounce starch, 1 ounce salt, the juice of 1 lemon; dip 
the spots in this mixture and lay on the grass in the sun. 
TO REMOVE IRON RUST. 
Wet the spots in lemon juice and salt, and lay in the sun. Repeat 
until the iron rust disappears. 



132 



ZTable of IKfleiQbts or /ifeeasures. 

(Selected.) 

I quart of sifted flour (well heaped) weight 1 pound 

1 " " unsifted flour weight 1 pound 1 ounce 

3 coffeecups sifted flour (level) weight 1 pound 

•4 teacups " " " 

1 pint soft butter (well packed). 

2 teacups soft " " " 

1 J pints powdered sugar 

2 coffeecups " " (level). 

2| teacups " " " 

1 pint granulated 
li coffeecups " 

2 teacups " 

1 pint best brown 
If coffeecups " 
2£ teacups ' ' 

2 tablespoons (well rounded) powdered sugar or flour 
1 " " " soft butter 

3 ' ' sweet chocolate, grated 



(heaped) 
(level) . . . 



(level) 



1 

1 
1 
1 
1 

1 " 
14 ounces 
1 pound 
1 ■• 
13 ounces 
■ 1 pound 
1 •• 
1 ounce 
1 " 
1 • 
2 teaspoons (heaping) flour, sugar, or meal, equal 1 heaping tablespoon 

Xiquios. 

1 pint contains 16 fluid ounces (4 gills). 

1 teacupful equals 8 fluid ounces or 2 gills. 
4 teaspoonfuls equal 1 tablespoonful. 

2 teaspoonfuls equal 1 dessertspoonful. 
4 teaeupfuls equal 1 quart. 

A common sized tumbler holds about J pint. 



Zo ©ur TReaDers. 

We would call attention to the advertisements that appear on these 
pages. Let us show these firms our appreciation by giving- them, in 
turn, our patronage. 

FINIS. 




Bread 

Soups, 

Fish and Shellfish 

Meats, Poultry, Game and Meats Rechauffe 

Vegetables 

Salads 

Cheese 

Eggs 

Pudding's 

Light Desserts 

Frozen Dainties 

Cakes, Cookies, Doughnuts, Etc. 

Pastry and Pies 

Pickles, Catsups, etc. 

Jellies and Fruits 

Confectionery 

Drinks 

Foods for the Sick 

Miscellaneous 

Table of weights and measures 



Page„ 

5-9) 

15-1* 

23-28: 

34-43. 

49-5] 

55— 5 T 

59-60'- 

62-64 

68-73- 

78-85 

87-88- 

94-106. 

110-112: 

114-117 

119-120' 

122-123; 

125-126. 

128' 

131 

IZ2L 




ADVERTISEMENTS. i;i.-, 

San Rafael Pharmacy Telep Bia"ki 2 

Careful and Thorough 

prescription 
IDruggists 

Fine Line of Stationery 
FOURTH STREET, HT C TV /T 1 

San Rafael. * ■ ^- Malone 

share OF YOUR trade solicited Proprietor 



H. P. WOOD, L . A . LANCEL, 

Pres and Manager. Secretary. 

Wood, Christieson & Co, 

REAL ESTATE AND 

No. 713 Fourth Street 

INSURANCE AGENTS 

KNITTEL & WILLIAMS Tekph S 22 

Interior Decorators 
and Upholsterers 

B Street, near Second San Rafael, Cal. 

KELLY BROS. TeIeph S, 3 

Ube • • Xeabtng 
plumbers 

••• 

And Dealers in 
Plumbing Supplies, Hardware, Garden Hose, Stoves, 

Tinware, Agateware, Bicycles, Paints, 

Oils, Electric Supplies. 



136 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



FURNITURE 
CARPETS 
BEDDINGS, Etc, 




Iron Enameled Beds a Specialty. 




1017, 1019, 1021, 1023 Mission St, 
above Sixth St, S, F, 



CASH OR LITTLE AT 
A TIME PAYMENTS 



J, NOONAN 

'Phone South 14. 



J. N. BRITTAIN 



x Jeweler x 

WATCHE^CLOCKS, gj^ Nove l t j es 



22 <3eaq? Street, 
San tfrancisco 



Etc. 



Special attention to flue 
watch and jewelry work 



Kasts 



San Francisco 



Shoes 



Suit the Cook 
and the Madam . 



738 Market St. 



ID6ISC0 HP NORTH PflGIFIG RAILWAY 



( BROAD GAUGE. ) 



Zhc picturesque IRoute 
of California 



♦ c 



in no section of the American Mineral Waters and of such varied 

Continent are there found so many qualities 2K* A" ^f 

Chemical Analysis and the experience of emiment travelers 
prove that the waters of the famous springs of the world are 
duplicated on the line of the SAN FRANCISCO & NORTH 
PACIFIC RAILWAY. A few of the many are 

Mark West Springs, Skaggs' Springs, 

The Geyers, in the midst of nature's most wonderful volcanic display, 

Highland Springs, Bartlett Springs, Vichy Springs, 

Blue Lakes, Laurel Dell, Saratoga Springs, Soda Bay, 

Lytton Springs, Agua Callente, Springs, Orr's Hot Springs, Duncan Springs 

Cold, warm and hot, Iron, Sulphur, Soda, Seltzer, Appollinaris, 
Vichy, Magnesia, Etc. . 



CLEAN, COMFORTABLE HOTELS, 

Within reach- of all 



MODERATE PRICES 



For detailed information, apply at 



Ticket office, 650 Market St. (Ch ^ n ffJ e 



Building.) 



Or General Office, 
Mutual Life Building, Sansome and California Sts., S. F. 



A. W. FOSTER, 

Pres. and General Manager. 



R. X. RYAN, 

General Pass, and Freight Agent. 




1 1 1 J- J . 



I 

year> tn no other 



