TX 715 

.W347 

Copy 




THE 



'"^ May 6 i«y» * 






RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Six Hundred Tested Eecipes for Delicious and 

Inexpensive Dishes for Breakfast, 

Dinner and Supper. 



COMPILED BT 



NIARCIA L. WATSON. 



iPB 141898 



H. FRANKLIN JONES, Publishes, of 
669-671 Gates Avenue, Brooklyn, NTYT 

The Central Square Series.— Published Quarterly. By 
Subscription— $1. 00 per year— No, 83, July, 1808.- Entered 
at the Brooklyn, N. Y., Post Office as second-class matter. 



2nd COPY, 
1898. 



TWO COPIES RECEIVED. 



iO 



^"'^■'^l 

V"^ 



r>226 



Copyright, MDCCCXCVlll, by 

H. Franklin Jones. 
English Copyright Secured. 



The Reliable Cook Book. 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK, 



PART I. 

Brown Bread, Muffins, Gems, Rolls, etc. 

Raised Sour Milk Bread. — Three cups of thick sour milk; 
dissolve one heaping teaspoonful soda in a little warm water, add 
a teaspoonful salt, and flour enough to mould like biscuit. Fill 
the pan two-thirds full. When fully risen bake about half an 
hour. 

Butter-Milk Biscuit.— Add to one quart sifted flour, one 
teaspoonful soda, some salt and mix well. Then rub a table- 
spoonful of lard into the flour and pour in slowly two tea-cups 
moderately sour buttermilk. Do not make too stiff; bake in a 
quick oven. 

Breakfast Cake. — Two eggs, two cups of sugar, two des- 
sertspoonfuls of butter; beat well; add one cup of sweet milk, 
four teaspoonf uls cream tartar and two teaspoonfuls soda mixed 
with five cups of flour and a little salt. 

Rye Muffins. — Two eggs, two cups milk, one-half cup mo- 
lasses, four cups rye meal, one teaspoonful soda, salt. 

Oatmeal Muffins. — One cup of oatmeal, one and one-half 
pints of flour, one teaspoonful salt, two of baking powder, one 
tablespoonful of lard, two eggs, one pint of milk. Sift together 
meal, flour, salt and baking powder; rub the lard in cold; and 
then add beaten eggs and milk. 

Breakfast Gems. — One pint of sweet milk, one cup wheat 
flour, one cup graham flour, one egg, a little salt and sugar. 
Heat and grease tins before putting in the dough. 

Buckvrheat Pancakes. — For a family of four take one quart 
sour buttermilk, two-thirds teaspoon soda in buttermilk and beat 
well, a little salt, then stir in flour and not too stiff, and they will 
be splendid. 



6 THE EELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

French Rolls. — Work one pound of butter into a pound of 
flour, put to it one beaten egg, two tablespoons of yeast, one tea- 
spoon of salt and as much warm milk as will make a soft dough, 
strew flour over it, cover with a cloth and set in a warm place for 
an hour or more until light, flour your hands well, make in small 
rolls, bake in a quick oven. 

Parker House Rolls. — Rub one tablespoon of lard into two 
quarts of flour. Scald one pint of milk; let it cool. Then add 
half a cup of yeast, and a very little sugar, and pour into the mid- 
dle of the flour without stirring. Let it stand over night. In the 
morning knead well, and set in a warm place. Knead again, and 
roll out half an inch thick. Cut with biscuit cutter. 

Muffins. — One quart of milk, two eggs, melt butter size of 
egg in the milk, one pound of flour and two teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder. Bake in gem irons in a hot oven. 

Graham Bread. — Two and one-half cups of sour milk, four 
cups of graham flour, one-half cup of sugar, two tablespoonf uls of 
Orleans molasses, one teaspoon of soda, one teaspoon of salt, set 
in a warm place to rise three-fourths of an hour, then bake three- 
fourths of an hour. I hope some of the readers will try this and 
report. 

Federal Bread. — To one pint of cream, or new milk warm, 
ed, add a large spoonful of good butter. Then take a large din- 
ing plate of sifted flour, and stir in with a knife. Add two eggs 
well beaten, a little salt, and two tablespoons of good yeast. Stir 
these well together, then put into the tins to rise. Do not disturb 
it after it has risen. Bake in the same tins three-fourths of an 
hour. When done cut off the top of each loaf. Spread thickly 
with butter, and serve immediately. 

Corn Bread. — One large teacup Indian meal, one large tea- 
cup of flour, three eggs well beaten, one teaspoon of salt, one 
heaping tablespoon of butter melted but not hot, one heaping 
tablespoon of white sugar, one teaspoon of soda, two and one-half 
cups of milk, two teaspoons of cream tartar. Mix meal, flour, 
salt and cream tartar thoroughly. Stir the melted butter into the 
milk, also the sugar and soda. Add this mixture to the flour, 
meal, etc., then stir in the well-beaten eggs. Bake in a deep pan 
nearly an hour. 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. I 

Brown Bread. — One cup of white meal, one cup of rye, one 
cup of flour, one of molasses, two teaspoons soda, one teaspoon 
salt, mix with cold water, quite thin. Steam three hours. 

Steamed Indian Loaf. — One cup flour, two cups corn meal, 
three-fourths cup molasses or hrown sugar, one pint of milk, sour 
or sweet, a little salt, one-half teaspoonful soda; takes two hours 
to steam. 

Brown Bread. — One and one-half cups of graham, two cups 
of corn meal, one cup of molasses, one teaspoonful each of salt 
and saleratus, add enough sour milk to mix stiffly, put in a cover- 
ed pail and set in a kettle of boiling water and let it boil one and 
one-half hours. 

Corn Bread. — Three cups sour milk, one cup of flour, one- 
half cup sugar, one scant teaspoonful of soda, a little salt, and 
corn meal enough to make a batter. 

Brown Bread. — Four cups sifted Indian meal, two cups flour, 
one cup molasses, one teaspoon soda, salt, sweet milk enough to 
make a thin batter. Steam three hours, then set in the oven to dry. 

Milk Yeast Bread. — Take one pint of wheat flour or mid- 
dlings, stir into it one tablespoonful of sugar, salt and ginger, and 
one teaspoonful of saleratus, mix well and sift, then put this dry 
mixture in a glass jar and keep air tight. The day before you 
want to bake, take two tablespoonfuls of this mixture and pour on 
three-fourths of a cup of boiling water, stir well, then set in a 
warm place until the next morning, then take one pint of new 
milk and same of boiling water, and a half teaspoon of salt, add 
the yeast and stir in flour until quite thick, then keep this quite 
warm and in a few hours it will be a light foam, then dissolve one 
half teaspoonful saleratus in a little hot water and stir it into the 
sponge, stir in more flour and mould into loaves as soft as can be 
handled and rise again and bake. 

Graham Bread. — One gill of yeast, one gill molasses, three 
quarts graham flour, one teaspoon soda, pinch of salt, one quart 
of warm water; stir together and let rise, then steam two hours 
and bake in a moderate oven thirty minutes. 

Brown Bread (Raised). — One pint of Indian meal scalded 
in one pint of water, one pint of wheat meal, one-half cup of mO- 



8 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

lasses, one-half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it, one-half cup 
of yeast, a little salt. When risen, steam three hours. 

Brown Bread. — Four large cups sweet skimmed milk (scald- 
ing improves it), one cup sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, one 
teaspoonful salt, equal quantities Indian and rye meal; bake one 
hour and a-half in a stove oven, then steam two hours. 

Cinnamon Rolls. — Make a biscuit dough of one pint of flour, 
one and a-half teaspoonf uls of baking powder, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, and a full tablespoonful each of butter and lard. Rub 
the shortening into the flour, having first thoroughly mixed in 
the salt and baking powder. Use enough new milk to make into 
a soft dough. Roll it out very thin and sprinkle on a cup of coffee 
crushed sugar, well mixed with a small teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
Then roll it up tightly, and cut across in slices from three-quar- 
ters to an inch thick. Lay them upon a biscuit pan and bake 
quickly. 

Noodles. — Mix a very stiff dough out of three eggs, a little 
salt and flour, roll into very thin sheets, allow to lay a few mo- 
ments, then roll all up together and cut into shreds with a sharp 
knife, shake apart and allow to dry, (one can dry thoroughly, put 
away in a paper poke and use at any time). These can then be 
added to beef broth, chicken soup or may be cooked about fifteen 
minutes in salt water, dipped from the water and browned, but- 
ter poured over for seasoning, or they are very good seasoned 
with plenty of milk, butter and cream with a little thickening. 

French Toast. — Take three eggs, beat well, and add one- 
teacupful milk, dip the slices of bread in this batter and fry in 
butter till a good brown, eat while hot. 

Nice Light Dumplings. — One cup flour, one tablespoon 
baking powder, a little salt, mix this well with the flour and then 
add sweet milk enough to make a stiff batter; drop in small 
spoonfuls into boiling soup and boil twenty minutes. 

Cold Short-Cake. — Make a nice short-cake, and after it is 
cool or cold, split and spread with butter, then spread thickly 
with fruit, if peaches cut them up in rather small pieces and 
sprinkle plenty of sugar over them, then spread the fruit thickly 
vrith whipped cream. The two layers of short-cake can be used 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 9 

separately or piled one over the other as desired. This way of 
preparing short-cake is considered more digestible than to be 
eaten warm. Of course any fruit can be used. 

Best Oatmeal Gems.— One cup raw oatmeal soaked over 
night in two cups sour milk. In the morning add two eggs, 
sufficient soda, a little salt, and enough graham flour to make a 
pretty stiff batter. Have gem pans on the stove, and when filled 
bake in a very hot oven about fifteen minutes. 

Delicate Breakfast Rolls.— Take one quart sifted flour, two 
teaspoonfuls Hors ford's baking powder, one teaspoon ful salt, 
three and a-half gills sweet milk and water, or milk alone; drop 
with a spoon into the " Gem " baking pan. Before mixing the 
above, set the " Gem" pan on the stove, and let it get very hot 
before filling, so that the rolls will begin to bake as soon as they 
touch the pan. 

Corn Cake. — One cup of corn meal, one cup of milk, one- 
fourth cup of sugar, two eggs, one and one-fourth cup of flour, 
one teaspoonful of soda, and two of cream of tartar, three table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter. Beat np the eggs and sugar, dis- 
solve the soda in the milk and add it, then stir in the corn meal. 
Mix the cream of tartar and flour together, and add. Put in the 
melted butter last. Bake in a flat pan. 

Buckwheat Johnny Cake. — Take one pint buttermilk, or 
sour milk, break in an egg, add a little salt, but not thicken to a 
stiff batter, put in a large spoonful of melted lard or butter, and 
last thing put in half teaspoon soda, or more according to sour- 
ness of milk. This is very nice for breakfast or tea, with maple 
syrup. 

Breakfast Cakes. — One cup sour milk, one cup sour cream, 
one-half cup sugar, two small teaspoonsful soda, one-half cup 
currants, well washed, a little salt, flour enough to roll thin. 
Cut with the biscuit-cutter, and bake in a quick oven. To be 
eaten cold. 

English Muffins.— Take yeast-bread dough that has risen 
over night, roll into thin, round cakes, as large as a small break- 
fast plate. Bake on a hot griddle, turning them over once. 
When done split them open and butter. 



10 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Cakes for Breakfast. — One cup of Indian meal, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one tablespoon of sugar, scald the meal, then 
add two tablespoonf uls of milk or water, one egg, and one table- 
spoonful of flour, stir well, butter your griddle, put on large 
spoonfuls of the batter and fry a light brown. 

Graham Gems. — Two cups graham, one cup milk, one-half 
cup sugar, one egg, two teaspoons Congress yeast powder or any 
other baking powder. Have gem pans heating while mixing above. 

Sour Cream Biscuit. — One pint sour cream, one teaspoon 
soda, one of salt, flour to make a soft dough. Roll to half inch 
thick, put in a pan not allowing to touch each other. Bake them 
in three minutes' oven. Try them, they are delicious. 

Sugar Biscuits. — Three eggs, two cups sugar, one sour 
cream, half pound butter, half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream 
tartar, nutmeg. Bake as soft as you can handle. 

Sour Cream Biscuit. — One teacup sour cream, one-half 
teacup buttermilk mixed together, one teaspoon saleratus dissolv- 
ed in a teaspoon of hot water and beaten into the cream, one-half 
teaspoonful of salt, flour enough to knead soft. Bake quickly. 
This will make twelve biscuits. 

Flannel Cakes. — Cut dry, light bread in pieces, put over it 
enough sour milk to cover, let it stand over night, in the morn- 
ing wash it well, and to every quart of bread add one egg well 
beaten, a teaspoonful of soda, a pinch of salt and flour to make a 
moderately thin batter ; bake on a griddle. 

Rice Muffins. — Two cups of milk, one cup of boiled rice, 
one-quarter cup of sugar, one-half cup of yeast, a small piece of 
butter, flour to make stiff batter. Rise over night. In the morn- 
ing drop into muftin rings without stirring. 

Rye Gems. — One egg, one cup sweet milk, one-fourth cup 
of sugar, one heaping teaspoon cream tartar, one- half teaspoon 
soda, one cup flour, one cup rye meal. 

Graham Gems. — Three eggs, three cups of milk, three cups 
of graham flour, and some salt. Beat thoroughly. 

Parker Rolls. — One quart of new milk, scalded, one cup of 
sugar, stirred in while hot, when cool stir in one-half cup of 



*rHE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 11 

yeast, make a hole in a pan of flour, put in two tablespoons of 
lard, one-half teaspoon of saleratus and a little salt, then pour iu 
the milk and let it rise without stirring. When light make into 
dough aud let rise again, then work w^ell and roll out thin and 
spread with butter ; cut out with cake cutter and lap together 
and rise and bake. 

Potato Biscuits. — Two cups of mashed potato, one teaspoon 
of salt, one half pint of warm water, one quart of flour, a small 
piece of lard, one cup of yeast ; knead all together and let rise 
over night. In the morning roll out and cut same as biscuits, rise 
and bake for breakfast. 

Mush Biscuit — One and one-half cups of (corn) mush, one 
cup of yeast, a little salt, flour to knead thoroughly. Let rise 
over night, in the morning make into biscuits for breakfast. 

Waffles. — One quart of sour cream, four eggs, one-half tea- 
spoonful of soda and flour enough to be as thick as batter cakes. 
Sour milk can be used if cream is scarce by putting in a piece of 
butter the size of an egg. 

Fried Cakes. — Two-thirds cup sugar, one- half cup butter 
milk, three tablespoons lard, one egg, one-half teaspoonful soda. 
Mix soft. 

Sally Lunn. — One quart flour, two eggs, one pint milk, two 
tablespoons of sugar, piece of butter size of two large sized 
eggs, one-half teaspoonful salt, two teaspoons cream of tartar, one 
teaspoon of soda. Beat butter and sugar together. Add eggs, 
well beaten. Mix the soda with the milk, and the cream of tartar 
with the flour. 

Nice Corn Cake. — One cup of flour, one half cup of corn 
meal, one cup of sour milk, one-half teaspoon of soda, one table- 
spoon of sugar, a little melted butter, and a very little salt. Bake 
in a quick oven. 

Breakfast Gems. — Two cups of rolled oats soaked over 
night iu one and a-half cups of sour milk, then add ahalf cup of 
molasses, one cup wheat flour, one teaspoon of soda, one of salt, 
two eggs. Mix thoroughly and bake quick. 

A Good Breakfast Dish. — Toast slices of bread, as many 
as you need. For two persons take two eggs, a good half cup ot 



1^ THE llELiABL:^ COOK BOOK 

milk, butter half as big as an egg, salt to taste ; let the milk come 
to a boil, beat the eggs in and cook until it thickens ; butter the 
bread, turn the egg upon it while hot. 

Flour Gems.— One egg, tablespoonful of sugar, two of but- 
ter, one and a-half cups of sweet milk, two and one-half cups of 
flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, beat well. Have the 
gem tins buttered and hot, put in and bake quick. 

Spanish Buns. — One pint sugar, one cup milk, one pint 
flour, one pint butter, four eggs, one tablespoonful cloves and one 
of cinnamon, three teaspoons baking powder. Bake in square 
tins and ice thinly. 

Muffins. — Beat two eggs into a quart of buttermilk, stir in 
flour to make a thick batter, one teaspoonful salt, and the same 
of soda, bake in a hot oven in well-greased tins. Mufims of all 
kinds should only be cut just around the edge, then pulled apart 
with the fingers. 

Sally Lunn. — One cup each of milk and sugar, two eggs, 
tablespoon butter, two teaspoons cream tartar, one of soda (or 
two heaping teaspoons baking powder instead of cream tartar and 
soda), flour for thick batter. Bake quickly. 

Virginia Muffins, — One and one-half cups of milk, one-half 
cup of sugar, one egg, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
bakiug powder, butter the size of a hen's egg; beat until very 
light and bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. Brooks' Nice Rye Biscuit. — Take a cupful of mo- 
lasses, and a cupful and a half of milk, a teaspoonful of soda^ 
stir about as stiff as gingerbread, with rye meal three parts and 
flour a fourth part. Bake in hot gem pans and serve with butter 
for breakfast. 

Best Jolinny Cake.— One cup sour milk, one cup sweet, 
one good egg well beaten, three cups Indian, one cup wheat 
half cup molasses, add thereto, half cup of sugar with one spoon 
of butter, now, salt and soda each a spoon, mix up quickly and 
bake it soon. 

Buttermilk Muffins. — Beat well two eggs, into one pint 
fmd three gills of buttermilk, stir in flour to make a thick batter, 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 18 

add a teaspoonful of salt, and the same of soda, !)ake in a hot 
oven, in well greased tins. Nice for breakfast. 

Drop Biscuits. — For a family of three, take two cups flour, 
two large teaspoon fuls baking powder, small pinch salt. Sift all 
together and stir in as much sweet milk, cream and all, as will 
make it as stiff as can be stirred. Drop on greased tins and bake 
in a quick oven. 

Fried Cakes — One cup sour milk, three big spoons cream 
or lard, three teaspoons cloves, one and one-half teaspoons ginger, 
one teaspoon soda, flour enough to make a soft paste and fry in 
hot lard. 

Corn Muffins. — Three cups of corn meal, one-half cup of 
sifted wheat flour, three eggs well beaten, two tablespoons of 
butter, one teaspoon of soda, dissolved in one pint o*" buttermilk, 
and a little salt. Beat them well together, pour into rings, and 
bake a nice brown in the oven. 



14 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

PART II. 

Meats, Fowl, Soups, Etc. 

Chicken Pie. — Two young chickens boiled tender, line the 
sides of baking dish with puff paste, put a layer of chicken, 
place strips of pastry over with lumps of fresh butter, pepper and 
salt sprinkled over, then cover the top with rich puff paste, bake 
in slow oven, don't let it get dry, keep juicy with soup from 
chicken. 

Southern Chicken Pie. — Boil a chicken until it is tender, 
then take a deep earthen dish and put into it a layer of the chick- 
en, well seasoned with butter, pepper and salt, then put a layer 
of cold boiled rice on this, and so on until you have exhausted 
your resources, taking care to have a layer of rice on top. Put 
this Into the oven and let it remain there until it is very hot and 
then serve. 

Chicken Pie. — Crust, one quart of flour, three heaping tea- 
spoons of baking powder, one small teaspoon of salt. Mix these 
well together with the hand. Rub into this mixture one table- 
spoon of butter, and one tablespoon of lard. When thoroughly 
mixed, add just enough milk to make a soft dough. Stir with 
hand quickly, without much kneading. Then roll out about 
three-fourths of an inch thick. Inside, take a chicken. Clean 
and cut up. Cut thin slices of salt fat pork. Put a thick la3'er 
of pork slices in the bottom of a stew pan. On these lay the 
fowl. Add a very little salt and pepper. Just cover the chicken 
with water and close the pan tightly. Let it stew very slowly 
for half an hour. Then take out the pieces of chicken and place 
into a pie dish. Take some of the gravy and stir in a large 
spoonful of flour. Season, and pour over the chicken. Cut a 
piece of butter in thin slices and lay on top of the fowl. Cover 
with the crust. Bake half an hour and serve hot. 

Chicken Ste^AT. — Cut up two fov* Is, fry ou*^^ three slices of 
pork, add a small onion, sliced, and cook until done. Lay in the 
chicken, and season each layer with salt and a little pepper, 
cover with water. When nearly tender add fivfi ^ six potatoes, 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 15 

sliced. Cover with dumplings. When the chicken is taken up, 
there should be just liquid enough left to thicken for a gravy. 

Fricasseed Chicken. — Put the chicken, cut up, into a 
saucepan with barely enough water to cover it, and stew gently 
till tender. Have a frying pan with a few slices of salt pork in 
it; drain the chicken and fry with the pork until of a rich brown ; 
then remove from the pan, and put in the broth in which the 
chicken was stewed; thicken with browned flour mixed smooth 
in a little water, and season with pepper. Put the chicken and 
pork back into the gravy, let it simmer a few minutes and serve 
hot. 

Chicken Pie. — Boil chickens in water, barely to cover them, 
forty minutes. Skim the water carefully. Take them out in a 
dish, and cut them up as they should be carved if placed upon 
the table. If the skin is very thick, remove it. Have ready, 
lined with a thick paste, a deep dish of a size proportionate to 
the number of chickens you wish to use; put in the pieces, with 
the hearts and livers, in layers; sprinkle each layer with flour, 
salt and pepper, and put on each piece of chicken a thin layer of 
butter; do this until you have laid in all the pieces; put rather 
more of the spice, flour and butter over the top layer than on the 
previous ones, and pour in as much of the liquor in which the 
chickens were boiled as you can without danger of its boiling 
over. Lay on the upper crust, and close the edges very carefully 
with flour and water; prick the top with a knife; cut leaves of 
crust and ornament it. Bake two hours. The crust for chicken 
pie should be twice as thick as for fruit pies. Use mace and nut- 
meg if you wish. 

Chicken Salad. — Take the chicken off of the bones. Cut 
it into dice like pieces. Wash a head of celerj-, and, also, cut 
into dice like pieces. Mix with the chicken. Pour over it May- 
onnaise dressing. Garnish with olives and cold boiled eggs, and 
serve. 

Salmi of Duck. — Cut up colo duck, as for fricassee. Put 
it in a pan with one ounce of butter. Fry brown quickly. When 
done add a pint of onions. Just cover with boiling water. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper. Take some stale bread. Cut in heart 
shaped pieces. Brown them in a quick oven. When the salmi 



16 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

is done, pour it upon a hot dish. Garnish it with the bread, and 
serve. 

Broiled Bacon. — Dip slices of thin bacon in bread crumbs, 
fry on a hot gridiron, turn when done. Serve with gravy made of 
sweet cream, parsley, season with pepper and salt. 

Fried Apples and Bacon. — Core and slice round, without 
paring, some tart, well-flavored apples. Cut into thin slices some 
middlings of excellent bacon or pork, and fry in their own fat al- 
rriost to crispness. Take out the meat and keep hot while you fry 
the apples in the fat left in the pan ; add a little sugar to taste. 
Drain, and lay upon the slices of meat. 

Cold Beef. — One cup of cold beef, chopped fine, one egg, 
one-third cup bread crumbs ; season with pepper, salt and sage 
and make into balls and fry in butter or lard. 

Beef Cakes. — Chop up some beef that is partly cooked with 
a little smoked pork fat and season with salt, pepper and onions; 
mix well and form into small cakes. Fry them light brown and 
serve with a good gravy made of soup stock thickened with 
brown flour. 

Beef Fritters. — Good for breakfast. Chop pieces of steak 
or cold roast beef very flne. Make a batter of milk, flour and an 
egg, and mix the meat with it. Season with pepper, salt and a 
little parsley. Put a lump of butter into a saucepan, let it melt, 
then drop the batter into it from a large spoon. Fry until brown. 

Cold Beef. — Mince it fine, with pepper, salt and onions, 
some rich gravy, and put it into tins three parts full, fill them up 
with mashed potatoes and brown in oven. 

A Breakfast Dish. — Take cold beef, pork or veal, the more 
variety the better, and hash it fine, mix with two eggs, and a 
little grated onion (or not as preferred), a little melted butter, two 
pounded crackers and pepper and salt to taste; roll in balls, and 
fry in butter flavored with lemon juice. 

Breakfast Dish No. 2. — Take some cold boiled or baked 
meat, chop it fine, then put in about the same amount of toma- 
toes, either canned or fresh, and chop them fine and mix well to- 
gether. Put a layer of bread crumbs in a buttered pan, put the 
meal and to^natoes in, seasoned with salt and pepper, then an- 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 17 

Other layer of bread crumbs. Pour a cup of water, or the water 
iu which meat has been boiled is better, over the top and bake 
one hour in a moderate oven. 

Ham Balls.— Take two well-beaten eggs and half a cup of 
bread crumbs, mix well together and add some tine chopped 
ham. Make into cakes and fry in hot fat. 

Rissoles. — To make rissoles take any kind of nice cold roast 
meat, chop it fine, salt and spice it to taste. Roll a tablespoon- 
ful in very thin pastry crust, and fry quickly in butter or lard. 

Spiced Beef. — Five pounds of the shank boiled five hours 
with celery seed. Drain off the gelatine and then chop the meat 
very fine, and pepper and salt to taste, and put it into a cloth on 
a platter. Cover with a cloth and press. 

Spiced Beef. — Boil a piece of beef in a quart of water until 
very tender, take from the water, chop fine, season with salt, 
pepper, a half teaspoonful of cloves; add water in which the 
meat was boiled, place in a mould, place weight on and press. 
When well pressed together, cut it into slices. Any piece of 
beef will answer for spiced beef, unless too fat. 

Beef Shank.— Boil till the meat will slip off the bones readi- 
ly, takeout bones, chop up meat and season to taste; we generally 
only use salt and pepper; put back the liquid in which it was 
boiled, let it boil, and then turn out in a deep dish to cool; when 
cold slice and serve. 

Beef Tea.— Chop a piece of lean beef, put in an earthern 
jar, cover close and set in a kettle of water; boil four or five 
hours, or until juice is all extracted; salt and strain. 

Stewed Beef with Onions.— Cover the bottom of a frying 
pan with thinly shaved slices of fat pork. When the fat is all 
tried out, lay in a thick steak cut from the round, and let it 
brown upon both sides; then take it off and add one tablespoon- 
ful of flour to the pork; stir it till it is smooth, then put in a pint 
of water, a tablespoonful of catsup, a teaspoonful of currant 
jelly and a large onion, chopped fine. Add salt and pepper to 
the taste, and put the steak back in the gravy to boil slowly for 
two hours and a-half , covering closely and adding more water 



18 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

ft-om the teakettle if necessary. When done lay the steak upon a 
dish, put a piece of butter upon it, and pour the gravy over. 

Roast of Calf's Liver.— Wash thoroughly and wipe dry; 
cut a long, deep hole in the side, stuff with crumbs, onion and 
bacon, chopped; salt and pepper to taste, a bit of butter and one 
egg; sew or tie together the liver, lard it over and bake in the 
oven, basting often; serve with gravy and currant jelly. 

Dried Beef in Cream.— Shave the beef very fine, pour over 
it boiling water and let stand a little while. Pour off the water 
and pour off good rich cream and let come to a boil. If you 
have not cream use milk and butter thickened with a little flour, 
season with pepper and serve on toast. 

Fresh Pork and Potatoes.— Take a roast of -)ork, sprinkle 
it with sage and salt, and put into the oven to roast. Two hours 
before dinner have prepared enough potatoes for the family; put 
them in the dripping-pan under the pork; when done they should 
be nicely browned. 

Mock Duck.— Take some round steak, make a stuffing as 
for turkey, spread over the steak, roll it up and tie it, roast about 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Veal Pie.— Stew small pieces of veal until tender ; sea- 
son with butter, pepper and salt. Thicken the broth (of which 
have plenty), with batter made of milk, flour and a well-beaten 
egg. Pour into a deep pan and cover with a rich biscuit dough, 
bake until a nice brown. 

Rabbit Pie— Cut up, soak in salt water half an hour, and 
boil nearly tender. Cut some fat pork in strips, and boil two 
eggs hard ; put in the pie dish, lined with paste, a layer of the pork, 
then rabbit, slices of egg, salt, pepper, butter, mace, and lemon 
juice; thicken with flour the water the rabbit was boiled in, 
pour over, cover with paper, and bake one hour. 

Beefsteak and Onions.— Cut up six onions very fine ; put 
tnem in a saucepan with two cupf uls of hot water, about two 
ounces of good butter, some pepper and salt ; dredge in flour. 
Stew until the onions are quite soft ; then have the steak broiled; 
put into the saucepan with the onions ; simmer about ten minutes 
and send to the table very hot. 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. ^19 

Stuffed Beefsteak. — Take a rump steak about an inch 
thick, make a stuffing the usual way, spread over the steak, roll 
up and tie securely, put in an iron kettle with not too much water 
and stew slowly about two hours, when done thicken the gravy 
and pour over, carve in slices through the steak and stuffing. 

Hamburg Steak with Onions. — Take of the upper cut 
of a round of beef one and one-half pounds. Add to it a small 
bit of fat. Have the butcher chop it fine. Form it with the 
hands into a flat oval shape about an inch thick. Place it 
carefully on the broiler (do not break it), and broil just as you 
would a steak, turning often. It is much nicer if left a little rare. 
When done remove to the platter and pour over two tablespoon- 
f Ills of melted butter, a little salt and pepper, and the onions pre- 
viously cooked. Clean six onions. Chop fine. Put a table- 
spoonful of suet in an iron spider ; one teaspoonf ul of sugar and 
the chopped onions, with a little salt and pepper. Cook one-half 
hour or until tender, turning occasionally. Keep them closely 
covered. When done pour over the steak. 

Hamburg Steak.— Chop one pound of round steak fine, sea- 
s^fl with a tablespoonful of onion juice, a little black pepper and 
half a teaspoonf ul of salt ; mix well, form in small, flat cakes and 
fry in hot lard. Make gravy and pour over. 

- Rolled Beefsteak.— Take two pounds of round steak, cut 
in a thick slice. Make a stuffing of a cup of bread crumbs and a 
teaspoonful of melted butter. Season with sage, salt and pepper. 
Lay the steak on a board, trim off the fat and hack one side of 
it thoroughly with a knife. Do not cut through the steak. 
Spread the stuffing on the chopped side, roll the meat over and 
fasten with wooden toothpicks to keep it. Put over it a few thin 
slices of salt pork. Then tie all up nicely with twine. Lay in a 
saucepan with a pint of water and a piece of carrot and onion 
cut fine, a saltspoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of vinegar. Let 
this simmer for three hours ; then take it up, remove the string 
and toothpicks, sprinkle flour over it and set in the oven to 
brown. Skim gravy, and when meat is browned pour over it and 
serve. This is very nice when well cooked. The success of the 
dish depends on simmering slowly and browning quickly. 



20 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Steak Rolled and Baked — Dust a little pepper and salt 
over a nice steak cut not more than half an inch thick. Prepare 
a forcemeat by mixing a quarter pound of sifted bread crumbs 
with two dessertspoonfuls finely chopped suet, one deesertspoonf ul 
chopped parsley and a small piece of lemon peel shred very fine. 
Season with salt and pepper, and bind the mixture with a well 
beaten egg. Place this forcemeat on one end of the steak, roll up 
tightly as possible, bind securely with twine, ends and all, to pre- 
vent the escape of the forcemeat. Wrap the rolled steak in a 
well-greased paper and lay it in a dripping pan in which is two 
ounces of hot dripping. Bake in a hot oven, basting frequently. 
Allow twenty minutes for each pound of steak. Ten minutes 
before taking from the oven remove the paper to let the outside 
brown. Serve with hot boiled potatoes and brown gravy. 

Pea Soup. — Use one pint of dried peas for every four quarts 
of soup. Wash the peas well, then put them in six quarts of 
cold water. Let them come slowly to a boil. Add some kind of 
a meat bone, with a carrot and an onion. Simmer for three hours. 
Strain through a sieve. Place on the fire again, and put in one 
tablespoon of flour, and the same of butter, mix together. Cut 
some bread into dice-like pieces, and brown in the oven. Place 
them in the bottom of a tureen, and pour the soup over them. 

Pea Soup. — Take one-third of a pound of split peas. Put 
into three pints of water. Cut the pork into pieces the size of 
dice, with one onion, one-half bunch of parsley chopped fine. 
Boil all two hours. Add water, so that when done there will be 
three pints. 

Tomato Soup. (Equal to oyster). — Cook till done one quart 
of tomatoes, add first one teaspoon saleratus, then pepper freely, 
half cup butter, then add two quarts new milk, let boil till it 
boils to the top of kettle, then set ofif and add salt to taste. 

Tomato Soup. — Take one-half can tomatoes, stew and strain 
through a sieve ; season to taste with pepper, salt, a little sugar 
and butter 

Tomato Soup. — One quart tomatoes, one small onion cat 
fine, one quart water, one level tablespoon of salt, black pepper 
or red pepper. Boil forty-five minutes. Sift it. Wheij it comes 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 21 

to boiling again put in three tablespoons of browned flour stirred 
with a little cold milk, a pinch of soda and a pint of milk and let 
it boil twenty minutes. Butter the size of an egg. 

Tomato Soup. — One quart of tomatoes, two heaping table- 
spoons flour, one tablespoon butter, one teaspoon sugar (some use 
twice as much), one teaspoon salt, one pint hot water. Let the 
tomatoes and water come to a boil ; rub the flour, butter and one 
spoonful of the tomatoes together, and stir into the boiling mix- 
ture. Season to taste, and boil fifteen minutes longer. Rub 
through a sieve, and serve with a piece of butter and nicely -toast- 
ed bread. Extra nice. 

Green Corn Soup is one of the most delicious of vegetable 
soups for Summer. Scrape or cut the thinnest possible shaving 
from each row of corn on the cob, and with the back of a knife 
press out the pulp, leaving the hull on the cob. There should be 
about a pint of this pulp. Break the cobs and put on to boil in 
enough cold water to cover them, boil thirty minutes and strain. 
There should bs about a pint of this corn water, and when it boils 
again add the corn pulp, and cook fifteen minutes. Add salt, 
pepper, a half teaspoonful sugar, and a pint of boiling milk or 
cream. Thicken with a teaspoonful of flour cooked in a table- 
spoonful of butter. Boil a minute or two and serve at once. 

Spinach Soup. — Wash and trim one quart of spinach and 
put into a saucepan holding three quarts of boiling water and 
three tablespoonfuls of salt. Boil rapidly with the cover off till 
tender, which will be in about eight minutes. Next drain through 
a colander, run plenty of cold water on it, chop fine and rub 
through a sieve with a wooden spoon. While the spinach is boil- 
ing prepare the soup as follows : Put the milk over the fire to 
boil, first putting into the saucepan two gills of cold water to pre- 
vent burning. Mix together over the fire one ounce of butter, 
the same of flour, till they bubble ; then slowly add the boiling 
milk, season with salt to taste, half a saltspoonf ul of white pepper, 
one-quarter of a saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, stir in enough 
spinach to color a light green and serve hot. 

Lobster Stev^. — Select two medium sized lobsters, pick out 
all the meat, also all the inside dressing and chop all together; 
have milk, butter, pepper and salt all hot and add the lobster 



23 THE KELIABLE COOK BOOK, 

with one small tablespoon of sugar, let boil up once and serve 
with oyster crackers, just the same as oyster stew. 

Julienne Soup. — Make a stock as for clear soup. Finely 
shred half an ounce of onion, quarter of an ounce of celery leaves, 
and three ounces each of cabbage, string-beans, carrot, and white 
and yellow turnips. Gently simmer all together till ihe vegeta- 
bles are tender. Season. Chop up the yolk of a hard boiled egg, 
and put in just before serving. 

Calf's Head Soup. — Put the head on in water enough to 
cover it entirely, and let it boil until the bones will slip out. Then 
take it out on a dish, throw the bones back into the pot, lay the 
brains on a plate, chop the head and tongue quite fine and season 
highly with pepper, salt and onions. Then take the bones out 
again, put back the meat and throw in a dozen grains of allspice. 
Take the brains, with a small portion of the tongue chopped very 
fine; season with salt, pepper and parsley and add stale bread 
crumbs sufficient to make into balls the size of a walnut. Then 
beat well the yolk of an egg, roll the balls in it, dust them with 
flour, fry them a nice brown and put them in the soup dish before 
putting in the soup. This soup is greatly improved by adding 
a gill of wine, one of mushroom and one of walnut catsup, just 
before serving. Thicken with browned flour. 

Rival Soup. — Allow a quart or more sweet milk to come to 
a boil. Rub an egg into about a pint of flour till it is in fine 
crumbs, then stir slowly into boiling milk, add salt, and serve 
immediately. 

Vermicelli Soup. — Blanch the vermicelli by putting the 
paste into plenty of boiling water, with one tablespoon of salt to 
each quart of water. Boil until tender. Drain it, and put into 
cold water until wanted. To every quart of stock add one ounce 
of vermicelli. Put into the hot soup long enough to heat thor- 
oughly, before serving. Season. 

Mock Turtle Soup.— Take a calf's head which has been 
thoroughly cleaned. Remove brains and boil separately. Put 
the head in a pot with more water than will cover it. Let it boil 
for an hour and skim frequently. Take it out and when cool cut 
the meat into pieces about an inch square. Scrape and cut the 
tongue in the same manner. Lay nil these pieces aside, then put 



The RfiLIABLE COOK BOOK. 



^i 



into the water in which the head was boiled about three pounds 
of leg of beef and a knuckle of veal, the meat cut small and the 
bones broken. Add four or five onions, a small bunch of herbs, 
a carrot and turnip sliced and some whole black pepper. Boil 
slowly four or five hours, take off, cool, and strain, remove all 
fat. Put a good sized lump of butter in a stew pan, add two 
handf uls of flour, let it brown, stirring all the time. Add a little 
of the soup, a sprig or two of parsley and boil fifteen minutes, 
strain and add to the rest of the soup, with the brains pounded, 
and boil for thirty minutes. Add a glass of sherry, if liked, and 
when in tureen put in some force meat balls. 

Celery Soup. — One pint of milk and a little over a pint of 
boiling water; rub together one tablespoonful of butter and two 
of flour; stir into boiling milk until smooth; add one teaspoonful 
of salt and one of celery extract; use one-half a bunch of celery, 
boiled (leaves and all) in the water given in the recipe; boil one 
hour. 

Bean Soup. — One pint of soup beans, one medium sized 
onion, one large tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper to suit 
the taste. Pick over the beans, wash clean, and soak over night; 
in the morning drain off the water and put them in a kettle with 
two quarts of cold water. Let them boil slowly until they are 
tender; slice the onion very thin and add to the soup with the 
butter, pepper and salt. When the onion is tender, pass the soup 
through a coarse sieve, and serve very hot. A few hard boiled 
eggs sliced in the soup just before serving is an improvement. 

Potato Soup. — For this use three potatoes boiled soft in 
salted water or a pint (two cupfuls) of mashed potato left from 
dinner. Cook a small onion and a stalk of celery with a pint of 
milk in a double boiler, add to the potatoes with salt and pepper, 
celery salt and a pinch of cayenne pepper, rub through the 
strainer and put on to boil. Thicken with half a tablespoonful 
of butter, and let it boil five minutes, adding more hot milk if too 
thick, and serving very hot. An ornamental effect and an agree- 
able flavor to many is gained by adding a tablespoonful of finely 
chopped parsley just before serving. 

Potato Soup. — Wash and pare three potatoes and let them 
8oak in cold water for half an hour. Put them into boiling water 



24 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

and cook very soft. Put a pint of milk on to boil in the double 
boiler with a teaspoonful of chopped onion and a stalk of celery. 
When the potatoes are done drain and mash them. Add the 
boiling milk and season with one teaspoonful of salt and a little 
pepper. Rub through a strainer, and put on to boil again. Melt 
a teaspoonful of butter in a small dish. Stir into it one half 
tablespoonful of flour, and when well mixed stir into the boiling 
soup. Let boil five minutes and serve very hot. 

Brunoise Soup. — Put one quart of soup meat over the fire 
in two quarts of cold water, and bring it slowly to a boil. Skim 
it clear. Peel a carrot, onion and leek, cut in dice, and with a 
little celery, put over the fire to brown with an ounce of butter, 
a teaspoon of powdered sugar, and a quarter of a saltspoon of 
pepper. Take the meat from the soup; put it with the vegetables; 
strain the broth into them. Season with salt. Simmer till meat 
and vegetables are tender. Take out the meat. Serve hot. 

Clam Cho-wder. — Brown some pork scraps and three onions 
together until a light brown. Into a large pot put a large layer 
of sliced potato, then a layer of soft clams, sprinkling a little 
salt, pepper, mace, cloves and allspice; then another layer of po- 
tatoes, clams and seasoning. When boiled put on the back part 
of the stove and let simmer ten minutes. Before serving add a 
quart of milk. Let it all boil. Then put in the pork scraps and 
onions and half a tumbler of sherry wine, 



PART III. 

Fish and Oysters, 

Salmon Salad No. 1. — Take one can salmon and the white 
part of a large bunch of celery, chop fine and mix with mayon- 
naise dressing. 

Salmon Salad No. 2.— Yolks of three eggs, half cup cream, 
half cup vinegar, two teaspoonfuls brown sugar, salt, pepper and 
celery seed to taste; let this mixture boil thick like custard, and 
pour over one can of salmon. This dressing makes a splendid 
potato salad. 

Scalloped Lobster. — Line a baking dish with small pieces 
of butter, put in a layer of lobster picked in small pieces. Sprin- 
kle over a little salt, pepper, lemon juice and a layer of bread 
crumbs, repeat having the crumbs on top. Pour over two cups 
of milk and bake half an hour. Serve hot. 

Scalloped Salmon. — Take two cups of milk and when boil- 
ing thicken with a tablespoonful of cornstarch, wet with cold 
milk ; this is for the sauce. Then lay in an earthen dish a layer 
of salmon, sprinkled with salt and pepper; then a layer of cracker 
or bread crumbs, moisten with the sauce, and so on in this way 
fill up the dish, having the last layer of bread crumbs. Put bits 
of butter over the top in a hot oven and bake about twenty min- 
utes. Serve hot. This makes a very nice dish to get up in a hurry 
for unexpected company on a day when the larder is lean. Can- 
ned salmon is as good for the purpose as fresh. 

Baked Halibut. — Have it sliced as for frying ; lay one 
slice in baking pan with a few bits of salt pork (a very few) be- 
neath it to keep it from sticking. On this put a bit or two of 
sweet butter and such seasoning as you like ; be wary of over- 
doing it ; on this place a second piece, treating it the same 
and continue to lay the fish in piles of three slices until all are 
prepared. Moisten occasionally with water until nearly done, 
then pour over it a cup of sweet cream or new milk and serve 
with egg sauce or mock cream for gravy. A nice egg sauce is 
made by taking one pint of milk, beating in one tablespoonful of 



26 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

farina or cornstarch or common flour, first evenly moistened in a 
little milk ; add two well-beaten eggs and boil five minutes and 
pour over the fish as it lies on the fish-platter or serve apart as 
you choose. 

Boiled Salmon with Sauce. — Slice one onion in boiling 
water, add a little salt, put in three pounds of salmon, with whole 
cloves, allspice, pepper and let them simmer for three quarters of 
an hour ; keep well covered. When done take up with great care 
on a platter ; let drain well. For sauce, put butter size of an egg 
in a frying pan with one tablespoonful of flour ; when light 
brown add part of the water the fish has been boiled in until it 
forms a nice gravy ; this should boil up in a few minutes, then 
remove from the fire ; stir in briskly a well-beaten egg, pour the 
gravy over the fish ; set away to cool. This dish should be eaten 
cold. A little cream added to the gravy gives it a nice flavor. 

To Fry Small Fish. — Make two or three deep gashes in 
the fish on each side, and rub salt and pepper over them, even 
into the cuts you have made. Roll in flour or Indian meal, and 
fry in butter or salt pork, tried out. As soon as the fish cleaves 
from the bone, remove to a hot platter, as too much cooking is as 
bad as too little, and this rule is a sure test of the correct cook- 
ing of fish. A tablespoonful of fat is enough to use, and will 
brown a spider full of fish well, although from time to time little 
pieces of butter may need to be added to prevent burning. 

Baked Fish. — Dress your fish nicely, salt to taste, and lay 
it out flat in vour nicely greased dripping-pan, leaving the flesh 
side up. Scatter small pieces of butter on the fish, and then 
bake until done — from twenty minutes to half an hour, according 
to the size of fish. Then pour over the fish a teacupful of sweet 
cream, and return to the oven until nicely browned. A very hot 
oven is required to cook fish in this way. 

Salt Codfish. — Pare your potatoes, and lay the codfish, 
nicely skinned, on top of them. Boil and serve with a simple 
gravy of flour and water well cooked, seasoned and heavily but- 
tered. For breakfast " pick up " finely what is left, and, in the 
morning, heat over in just water enough to moisten it, butter and 
pepper it well, and spread like sandwiches on thin slices of bread 
made into egg-toast. Moisten your slices of bread in cold water, 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 27 

then dip in beaten egg and milk and lay on a nicely-buttered fry- 
ing-pan over a quick fire; turn bread quickly, spread on your 
fish and serve hot. 

Baked Bass. — Wash well a fresh bass. Wipe dry. Stuff it 
with stuffing as for roast turkey. Then lay it in a dripping-pan. 
Cover the fish with slices of pork; season with salt and pepper. 
Bake in a moderate oven a little over half an hour. Baste occa- 
sionally with a little butter. When done put on a dish and keep 
hot. Make a sauce of the drippings, and adding one tablespoon 
each Worcestershire sauce, walnut catsup, chopped capers and 
parsley. Pour some of this on the dish with the fish, and serve 
the rest in a bowl. 

Fried Filets of Flounder. — Wash the flounder. Wipe it 
dry, and lay it on the table. AVith a sharp knife cut down to the 
bone in the centre of the fish, from head to tail. Lay the blade 
flat against the bone, and cut outwards toward the fin, and so 
take off the whole filet, without breaking it. Then skin each 
filet carefully. Lay the filet on the bread crumbs and turn till 
completely covered. Beat up one egg with a tablespoon of cold 
water. Dip the filet into the egg, and lay again on the bread. 
Heat enough fat until it begins to smoke. Drop the filets into it. 
Fry them a light brown. Take them up with a skimmer. Serve 
with parsley around them. 

Fish Croquettes. — Remove all the skins and bones from a 
pound of any cold fish. Chop fine, mix with equal parts of 
mashed potatoes, season highly with salt and pepper, and one 
egg; form in small balls, roll in flour and fry brown in boiling 
lard. Serve hot, with walnut pickles. 

Baked Codfish. — Take a cup of codfish picked fine, two 
cups potatoes chopped fine, one beaten egg, half cup butter, 
pepper; mix well and bake half an hour. 

Fried Scallops.— Roll the scallops in cracker dust, then 
dip into the beaten yolk of one egg. Then into the cracker. 
Throw into hot lard, and fry like doughnuts. Dry on brown 
paper. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. 

Clam Pie. — In a deep pie-dish lay a layer of thin-sliced po- 
tatoes, a few pieces of partially cooked onion, a few chopped raw 
clams, pepper and some salt (celery salt, if you like the flavor), 



28 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

then another thin layer of potatoes, onions and clams, and sea- 
soning until the dish is within an inch or so of being full; then 
pour in a teacupf ul of the clam liquor, and fill up with hot water 
until you can see it coming up between the upper pieces. Sav3 
the remainder of the clam liquor, if there is any left. For crust, 
use any good recipe that gives you invariably a light biscuit; 
mix as usual, mould slightly and spread it with shortening quite 
thickly, sprinkle on some flour, roll up and work it well; then 
roll out till about three-quarters of an inch thick and the size re- 
quired, cut three air holes and lay over the pie. Put in oven; 
when partly cooked, butter the crust. Heat up your clam liquor 
and add, if the broth has cooked away too much. 

Oyster Pie. — Line a dish with a crisp paste, put in a layer 
of oysters, salt, pepper and butter size of a walnut, half a cup of 
cream, one hard boiled egg sliced, cover with grated bread crumbs, 
put a little butter over them and bake brown. 

Fried Oysters. — Dry them first thoroughly by draining, after- 
ward laying on a napkin, covering with another until all juice i^ 
absorbed. To every quart allow the well-beaten yolks of two 
small eggs ; stir in the oysters until they are covered; grate over 
them a suspicion of nutmeg, if preferred; turn into a dish of 
cracker crumbs, and toss around until well coated. Brown in a 
spider of boiling lard or butter, and salt when done, otherwise 
they will not brown. 

Fried Oysters. — Take fine, large oysters, put in a colander 
and drain oif the liquor. Have a beaten egg on one plate and 
cracker dust on another. Lift the oysters, one at a time, with a 
fork, dip first in the egg, then in the cracker dust ; lay them two 
together, making them look like one, place them in the palm of 
your hand and pat them together, so that they will not come 
apart ; lay them on a dish until you have them all ready to fry ; 
place on the fire a frying-pan, with a tablespoonful of lard, and 
one of butter in it ; as soon as it is boiling hot, lay in the oys- 
ters ; sprinkle a little salt on them, and fry them a nice brown : 
when done, lift them out and put them in a colander and set 
them in the oven until wanted ; serve on a warm dish. 

Oyster Sandwich. — Split small fresh crackers, and butter 
the inside, being careful to keep those pieces which belong to- 



TfliE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 29 

gether side by side, as they fit much more neatly. Lay on each 
bottom half, one large, or two small oysters which you have pre- 
viously examined to see that they are free from shell. Season 
with bits of butter, a little salt, and a dash of black pepper ; 
cover with the upper half. Place these prepared crackers in a 
dripping-pan, and bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty- 
five minutes. The cracker must be thoroughly heated through, 
but not in the least burned. Send to the table as soon as taken 
from the oven. These should be served on a hot platter, and 
served with a hot pie-knife. They are very nice to serve in the 
evening with hot coffee or chocolate, and should be accompanied 
by pickles. 

Stewed Oysters. — Set the broth over the fire to come to a 
boil. Mix together over the fire one ounce each of butter and 
flour, until they bubble. Gradually stir this into the broth, and 
season with a teaspoonful of salt, and aquarter of asaltspoon of 
white pepper. Stir in the yolks of three raw eggs, one at a time, 
and the juice of one lemon. Put the oysters into the sauce. Let 
them heat until the edges begin to curl. Then serve at once. 

Oyster Patties. — Two eggs beaten thoroughly, one teacup 
sweet milk, one teacup raw oysters chopped a little, five milk 
crackers rolled fine, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon 
of soda sifted with two tablespoons of flour, salt and pepper. 
Bake on a griddle as you would griddle cakes. 

Oyster Sandwiches. — Take large stewing oysters, pound 
them in a mortar (having previously cut off their beards) with a 
little cayenne and lemon ! juice. Spread this mixture on thin 
slices of brown bread and butter, cut into rounds the size of a 
silver dollar. 

Oyster Fritters. — Drain off the liquor from two dozen oys- 
ters and put in a sauce-pan, set on the stove. Beat three eggs in 
a cup of cream; add salt, pepper and flour to make a stiff batter, 
add the oyster liquor with the oysters; fry a spoonful at a time, 
dropped in boiling lard. Serve very hot. 

Escalloped Oysters. — Butter your dish, strew with bread or 
cracker crumbs containing the seasoning pepper, salt and butter, 
then a layer of oysters and a little milk, large piece of butter; set 
in a hot oven for half an hour. 



30 THE RELIABLE COOK: BOOK. 

Escalloped Oysters. — Roll one pound of crackers very fine 
and to this add two quarts of oysters, grease an earthen baking 
dish sides and bottom with butter, put a layer of the cracker dust 
and season with butter, salt and pepper and moisten with milk 
warmed with a little boiling water, then a layer of oysters and 
season them a little, then another of crackers, . season well as be- 
fore, and so on till the dish is full, put the cracker dust on the 
top, season and moisten well, bake one hour; a little baking 
powder added to the cracker dust will make it lighter. 

Oyster Salad. — Take a dozen and a-half of oysters; scald 
in their own liquor, with the addition of a-half cupful of strong 
vinegar, a pinch of red pepper, a pinch of white pepper and a 
little salt. Drain. When cold, cut the hard part of the oysters 
off and chop fine. Care should be taken not to hurt the appear- 
ance of the soft part of the oyster. Cut a head of celery into 
small dice, scraping the greenish stalks and only wipe off the 
white ones; mix the oysters and celery lightly together, and just 
before they go to the table pour over the following dressing: 

Dressing. — To the yolk of one egg beaten well add slowly, 
drop by drop, a wineglassful of olive oil, a pinch of mustard, salt 
and pepper, dissolved in a teaspoonful of vinegar, added at the 
last. Keep the dish and oil very cold while making. Put on ice 
in a cold place and pour it over the salad just before sending to 
table. 

Fancy Roast Oysters. — Toast your bread, butter the 
slices and lay in a shallow dish. Put the liquor from the oysters 
to heat, add salt and pepper, and just before it boils add the oys- 
ters; let them boil up and pour over bread. 

Pickled Oysters. — Scald the oysters \n their own liquor; 
make some vinegar boiling hot, with some whole pepper, allspice, 
mace and a little salt. Take the oysters from their liquor with a 
bowl, and pour the hot vinegar over them. Serve celery with 
them. They are tit to eat as soon as cold. 

Oysters and Macaroni, — Boil a-half pound of macaroni 
until tender. Into a deep earthen dish put a layer of the maca- 
roni, adding small pieces of butter, a little pepper and salt. From 
one pint of oysters make alternate layers with the macaroni and 
season each layer as above. When the dish is filled pour over it 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 31 

the liquor from the oysters, with quarter of a pint of milk. Bake 
in a hot oven one-half hour, covering the dish with a pan while 
baking, to preserve the flavor of the oysters, but remove it five or 
ten minutes before they are done, and let them brown. Wrap a 
napkin around the dish and serve. . 

Devilled Oysters is a dish too highly seasoned to find favor 
with many, but we give the recipe in case some would like to 
try it. Put a layer of raw oysters in a deep pan; then a layer of 
bread crumbs, black and red pepper, salt, butter, mustard and 
vinegar; mix together. Alternate the layers until the pan is 
full. Bake and serve with sliced lemon. 

Oyster Sauce. — This is made of a solid pint of oysters, half 
a pint of chicken stock, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, four 
tablespoonfuls of butter; two of flour, and salt and pepper in 
quantities to suit the taste o\' the makei* 



PART IV. 
Vegetables, 'Eggs, Salads, etc. 

Fried Omelet. — Beat separately the whites and yolks of six 
eggs. Add to the yolks a tablespoonful of milk for each egg, a 
scant teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, and, if liked, two 
or three tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. Stir the whites lightly 
into the beaten yolks and turn the whole into a hot skillet into 
which has been melted (care being taken not to let it brown) a 
tablespoonful of butter. During the frying move the skillet to 
and fro, shaking it gently, and if bubbles form prick them. When 
the omelet is nicely browned on the bottom, set it in the oven an 
instant to dry the top ; then fold it over with a cake turner and 
serve at once in a hot platter. If cheese is used, an extra table- 
spoonful may be sprinkled over the top before folding the omelet 
in half. 

Plain Omelet. — Beat six eggs very thoroughly, the yolks to 
a cream and the whites to a stiff froth ; add to this one table- 
spoonful of flour or corn starch mixed smooth in one cup of sweet 
milk, salt and pepper and a piece of butter as large as an English 
walnut ; now pour this on to the white froth and without stirring 
at all pour the whole into a hot, buttered omelet-pan or ordinary 
deep frying-pan. Cook on top of stove or over a brisk fire for 
about five minutes and it will " rise " beautifully ; gently remove 
it to the hot oven and let it brown, and serve hot. 

Baked Omelet. — Six eggs, whites and yolks beaten separate- 
ly. Six tablespoons milk with enough flour stirred in to make a 
batter. Take a cup of milk, put on the stove, stir in the batter, 
and cook till like starch, add a piece of butter size of a walnut 
and a pinch of salt. Take from the stove, pour into a dish to 
cool, then stir in the yolks of the eggs. Beat whites to a stiff froth, 
add, mix well. Bake ten minutes. Eat while hot. Serve from 
the same dish it is baked in. 

Baked Omelet. — Heat three teacupsful of milk, melting in 
it a bit of butter as large as a walnut. Beat well togethei five 
eggs, one teaspoonful of flour and a scant teaspoonful of salt, and 
add to the hot milk, stirring as rapidly as possible. Turn into a 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 83 

hot, well buttered frying-pan and bake in a quick oven one-quar- 
ter of an hour. Break your eggs in an earthen platter, which has 
been well buttered, salt them slightly and pour over a cup of 
cream. Will bake in a hot oven in about ten minutes. 

Pickled Egrgs. — Boil eggs hard, remove shells, put one 
spoonful each cinnamon, allspice and mace into a rag and boil in 
a pint of water, add vinegar enough to cover and pour over eggs. 

Poach.ed Eggs. — Place a shallow pan over the fire, half fill 
it with water. Add one teaspoon of salt, and two tablespoons of 
vinegar. Let it get scalding hot. Drop in the eggs, one by one, 
and let them stand five minutes without boiling. Take slices of 
buttered toast, and lay upon a dish. Take up the eggs, one by 
one, on a skimmer. Trim each evenly, and slip off on the toast. 
Sprinkle lightly with pepper and salt, and serve. 

Ham Omelet. — Chop fine four ounces of cooked ham. 
Heat the omelet-pan. Put in a bit of butter the size of an Eng- 
lish walnut. Then put in six eggs, broken separately. Then the 
ham. Finish as directed for plain omelet. 

Oyster Omelet. — Stew half a dozen large, plump oysters over 
a clear fire in their own liquor, take them off at the first boil ; 
drain them, cut them in halves and spread them over the omelet 
before turning. If large and solid the half dozen will suffice for 
two small omelets. 

Celery Salad. — Stir briskly the yolk of one egg and sweet 
oil, by drops, until the consistency becomes stiff . Add two table- 
spoonsful of prepared mustard, a pinch of salt and pepper, three 
tablespoonsful of vinegar. Have ready three bunches of celery 
chopped fine, washed and well drained, then pour the above 
sauce over the celery. 

Tomato Sauce — Cut up fresh tomatoes and stew them in 
their own juice for half an hour, then put in a little onion, salt 
and pepper. Strain through a coarse sieve so that all will go 
through except the skins ; then thicken with flour and add a small 
piece of butter. This is used as a sauce for chops, etc. 

Fried Evaporated Apples.— Wash thoroughly and pick over 
carefully two handfuls evaporated apples ; let soak twenty min- 
utes in lukewarm water. Turn into frying-pan, add one tea- 



34 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

spoon butter, and two tablespoons sugar ; spread apples to cover 
pan evenly ; enough water to cover or float them. Cover and do 
not touch them until they are brown ; turn out carefully, and 
serve for breakfast. Can hardly be told from fresh apples. 

Celery Toast. — Cut up stalks of celery, boil in a little water 
until tender, add a little cotfee, a cup of sweet milk, cook a little 
longer, salt and pepper to suit the taste, thicken slightly with 
flour. Pour over toasted bread ; serve hot. 

Creamed Parsnips. — While the parsnips are boiling, pre- 
pare in a double boiler a sauce of half a cupful of hot milk, thick- 
ened with a tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour and seasoned 
to taste. When smoking hot, lay the cooked parsnips, scraped 
and sliced, in the sauce for five minutes, turning them two or three 
times. Serve very hot. 

Fricasseed Potatoes. — Pare and slice half an inch in 
thickness. Put into cold water. Wash w^ell. Put into a 
sauce-pan. Pour over them enough cold water to half cover 
them. Close the pan tightly, and let them cook fifteen minutes. 
Then drain off every drop of water. Have ready half a pint of 
cream or new milk, a large spoonful of good butter, a teaspoon of 
chopped parsely, and some salt. Pour this over the potatoes, 
shake them around, and just heap up. Serve hot. 

Potato Croquettes. — Mash one quart of potatoes through 
a fine colander. Mix with them one ounce of butter and the 
yolks of two eggs. Season with salt to taste, and a saltspoon of 
white pepper. Dust the board thickly with bread crumbs, and 
beat up an egg with a tablespoon of water. Dip the hands in 
cold water. Form the potatoes in little rolls, and toss them upon 
the bread dust. Dip them into the beaten egg, then into the 
bread. Fry like chicken croquettes. 

Fried Apples. — Beat two eggs, add a tablespoonful of sugar 
and three of sifted flour; slice tart apples, dip in the batter and 
fry in butter; take up, sprinkle with sugar and serve hot. 

Stewed Parsnips. — Wash and scrape the parsnips, and 
slice them in pieces half an inch in thickness, then put them in a 
frying-pan with half a pint of hot water and a tablespoonful of 
butter. Add salt to taste; cover closely, and let them stew until 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK, 36 

the water is cooked out, then stir to prevent tliem from burning 
until they are a ilght brown color. 

Macaroni a L'ltalienne. — Boil the macaroni as for baked 
macaroni. Put the macaroni in a baking dish, in alternate layers 
with Parmesan cheese and canned tomatoes. Brown quickly in 
a hot oven. Serve hot. 

Potato Pancakes. — One pint buttermilk, one egg, a little 
salt and soda, two teacups mashed potatoes and just enough flour 
to make them turn well. 

Potato Pancakes.— Peel and grate, we will say, a dozen 
large potatoes, add about two tablespoon fuls flour, one teaspoon 
salt, and two eggs. Have hot greise in the frying-pan, and fry 
until brown. Should be eaten hot. 

A Delicious "Way to Cook Tomatoes. — Cut them in halves, 
place pulp side down in a spider with a bit of butter, for a mo- 
ment or two, then turn and finish cooking without breaking the 
skin. Serve hot with butter, salt and pepper, like beefsteak, 
which in taste it resembles. 

S-weet Potatoes in Sugar. — Two sweet potatoes boiled un- 
til tender, peel and cut into slices half an inch thick, sprinkle 
with sugar and fry in ^easpoouful of hot butter to a light brown. 

Celery Mayonnaise. — Cut the celery into inch pieces. 
Then cut the pieces into strips. Put them into a salad bowl and 
add plain salad dressing of oil, vinegar and mustard. Drain off 
the surplus dressing, and cover the celery with Mayonnaise 
sauce. Mix and serve. 

Warm Slaw. — Take the best part of a cabbage and slice it 
fine, take two eggs well beaten, one cup of vinegar, one cup sweet 
cream, put the vinegar on the stove and when boiling hot stir in 
the cream and eggs, press it down with a plate, add a little salt 
ftnd butter. 

Green Corn Cakes. — Mix a pint of grated green corn with 
0, teacupful of flour, half a teacupful of milk, half a teacupful of 
melted butter, one egg, a teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper. 
Drop on a buttered pan by the spoonful and bake or fry for ten- 
or fifteen minutes. 

Corn Pudding.— Four ears of corn, oue pint of milk, twp 



36 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

eggs, butter the size of an egg, three tablespoon fuls of flour, salt, 
and pepper. Grate the corn very fine, add the beaten eggs, milk 
and butter, the flour wet in a little cold milk, with the pepper 
and salt, beat well. Bake about an hour in a pudding dish and 
serve as a vegetable. 

Baked Parsnips. — Scrape, and put in a deep pan with 
water, lay slices of pork over, and set in a slow oven over two hours; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

Tomatoes and Corn are very nice cooked together in this 
way. Cut the kernels from six ears of good, large, ripe corn; 
mix well with eight large tomatoes as for stewing. Put in three 
pounded crackers, season with salt and pepper and one teaspoon- 
ful of sugar, and bake half an hour in a pudding dish. The top 
should be covered with little strips of buttered bread which will 
toast nicely in the oven. 

Potatoes a la Provencale. — Cut one quart of cold boiled 
potatoes in little balls. Chop one onion, and fry it brown in one 
ounce of butter. Put the potato balls into the frying-pan with 
the onion and butter. Shake over the fire till of a light brown. 
Sprinkle with salt and serve hot. 

Fried Potatoes.— Take four good-sized potatoes, pare and 
and slice (not very thin,) have frying-pan hot, put in lump of but- 
ter, size of an egg, and put potatoes in with a pinch of salt, cover 
and stir from bottom of pan once or twice so they will not burn, 
let them brown. 

Potato Saute a la Barig-oule. — Cut cold boiled potatoes 
in the shape of olives. Toss them over the fire in hot olive oil 
with a tablespoonful of chopped green parsley. When brown, 
drain on brown paper and serve hot. 

Potato Salad. — Peel and boil eight good sized potatoes. 
"When cold, slice and lay on a flat dish a layer of the potatoes, a 
thin layer of finely minced onions (raw), and so on until potatoes 
are all used, pepper and salt. Boil two or three eggs hard, and 
slice over top of salad. Prepare one teaspoonful mustard with 
one half cup vinegar, also one-half cup melted butter, and pour 
over all. Eat when perfectly cold. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Whip up while hot enough mealy po- 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 37 

tatoes to make a good dish. Do this with a silver fork. When 
fine and mealy beat in two tablespoonfuls of cream, one table- 
spoonful of butter, salt and pepper. Whip up into a creamy 
heap and mix in with a few strokes the whites of two well beaten 
eggs. Pile irregularly upon a buttered pie dish, spread with the 
beaten yolks and brown quickly in the oven. 

Boiled Spinach.— Wash and pick well. Put it into a bag 
of coarse muslin. Pour over it plenty of hot water with a little 
salt in it. Boil fifteen minutes. Take it out and shake off the 
water. Chop it finely. Put it into a sauce-pan with a large 
spoonful of good butter and a little pepper. Stew it five min- 
utes. Dish and garnish with a hard boiled egg sliced. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes — Slice a pound of cold boiled potatoes. 
Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in a sauce-pan with a small onion, 
chopped fine. Set the pan over the fire, and when the onion has 
fried to a delicate brown, add the potatoes, and turn and toss 
them till they begin to color, then stir in a little minced parsley, 
and serve immediately. 

Scalloped Sweet Potatoes. — Boil, peel and slice. Put 
in a deep pan a layer of sweet potatoes and a layer of butter and 
sugar, until the pan is full. Set in the oven and bake brown. 
Sift sugar and nutmeg over the top. 

A Nice Supper Dish.— One cup mashed potatoes, one cup 
milk, oue egg, two tablespoonfuls butter; pepper and salt to 
taste; mix thoroughly, and bake a delicate brown. 

Cabbage Salad. — One-half pint of vinegar, hot, but not 
boiling; stir two beaten eggs, two teaspoons sugar, one teaspoon 
of salt, piece of butter size of an egg, beaten all together; also 
two tablespoons of flour, mixed with one- half cup of milk, and 
stir into the hot vinegar when it commences lo thicken. Take 
from the fire and put in a small tablespoonful of mustard, first 
mixing the mustard with a little water; use about one quart of 
cabbage chopped fine; stir the cabbage into the mixture on the 
stove, and cook a little without the mustard. Better to eat a day 
or two after making. 

A Favorite Vegetable Dish.— One-third pound salt pork, 
one-half peck green peas, six or eight new potatoes, one-half doz- 



38 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

en onions, two heads lettuce, a sprig of parsley; time required for 
cooking, three hours. Boil the pork for one hour in one quart 
water, then add peas and cook one hour more, when the onions 
and potatoes can be added. In fifteen minutes add parsley and 
lettuce. The lettuce must be washed carefully and tied together. 
Just before serving drop in a piece of butter the size of an egg, 
salt and pepper to suit the taste, and serve separately. The let- 
tuce makes a most delicious dish of greens. 

Baked Turnips. — Pare and slice. Boil until tender. Drain. 
Make a white sauce by stirring over the fire one ounce of butter 
and one ounce of flour, until they bubble. Stir in gradually half 
a pint of boiling water. Season with one saltspoonful of salt, 
and a quarter of a saltspoonful of pepper. Put the turnips into 
a baking dish, suitable to send to the table. Pour the sauce 
over them. Dust thickly with bread crumbs and seasonings. 
Brown in a quick oven. 

Cauliflower. — Trim a cauliflower nicely. Let it lay in cold 
salted water for an hour. Let it boil about twenty minutes in 
boiliug water, with a tablespoon of salt. Take it up carefully. 
Pour over it a sauce made of one ounce each of butter and flour, 
a gill of rich cream, and a half pint of milk. Season with pep- 
per and salt. Sprinkle over the top a little grated cheese. 

Escalloped. Tomatoes. — Peel tomatoes and cut in slices 
one-half inch thick, then place them in a baking dish in alternate 
layers with bread crumbs, butter, pepper, salt and a little sugar. 
Bake from one- half to three-quarters of an hour. 

Hot Sla-w. — Break two eggs into a sauce-pan, beat thorough- 
ly, add one teaspoon of mixed mustard, one tablespoon of sugar 
and one of butter, and one teacup vinegar, place over the fire and 
let boil, and pour hot over one head of cabbage chopped fine; 
just before serving salt to taste; if the salt is put in very long 
before it is eaten the slaw will be found to be watery. 

Stuffed Potatoes. — Wash the potatoes, and bake only till 
they begin to soften, not more than fifteen minutes. Cut off one 
end. Scoop out the inside with a teaspoon into a sauce-pan con- 
taining two ounces of butter, one saltspoonful of white pepper, 
one teaspoonful of salt, and two ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese, Stir all these over the fire till they are scalding hot. 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 39 

Then fill the potato skins "with the mixture. Put ori the ends. 
Press the potatoes gently into shape. Finish baking them in the 
oven, and serve. 

Scalloped Potatoes. — Peel raw potatoes. Slice them thin. 
Put a layer in baking dish, season with pepper and salt. Another 
layer till dish is full. Put over top a little bread crumbs and 
small pieces of butter. Bake one hour. Serve hot. 

Egg and Spinach. — Boil and prepare some spinach. Poach 
some eggs, trim and lay them on the spinach. Very nice for tea. 

Stewed Celery. — It is a good dish to use the roots and 
coarser stalks of celery as a vegetable; cut them into slices, and 
inch long pieces; boil till tender, and then turn otf the water and 
pour over the celery a hot white sauce made by stirring a table- 
spoonful of melted butter into a heaped tablespoon of flour, and 
then adding to this by degrees a cup of boiling milk, stir till 
thickened; if the sauce becomes too thick, as it will with some 
flour, add more hot milk; add also silt and pepper to the sauce. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. — Peel the tomatoes and prepare the 
same as scalloped potatoes, with the exception of putting bread 
crumbs between the layers as well as on top. Nicely brown in 
the oven. Canned tomatoes may be used in the same way. 

Cold Slaw. — Two-thirds cup vinegar, one egg, two table- 
spoonfuls sugar, one teaspoonful salt, half teaspoonful mustard, 
butter size of an egg. Put on the stove, stir till it boils, then 
pour over the shaved cabbage when cold. 

Stuffed Cabbage. — Cut out the heart of a large fresh cab- 
bage by gently pressing back the leaves. To do this without 
breaking the cabbage pour boiling water over it. Fill the hole 
with finely chopped veal or chicken rolled into balls with the 
yolk of an egg. Tie up in a cloth and boil in a covered kettle. 

Tomato Shortcake.— Cook ripe tomatoes until perfectly 
done, after scalding and peeling them, then add a generous lump 
of butter, sweeten quite sweet and use the same as berries, only 
serve hot. 



PART V. 

buddings, Delicacies, etc. 

S'avorite Pudding. — One-half cup sugar, one egg, two table- 
spoonfuls butter, one-half cup water, one and one-half cups flour, 
Steam one -half hour. Sauce for same. One-half cup sugar, but- 
ter size of an egg, one heaping tablespoonf ul flour. Rub well 
together, add three tablespoonsful apple jelly, any spice preferred, 
then slowly pour on boiling water, stirring till it thickens. Serve 
hot. 

Peach. Fritters. — Make a batter of two well-beaten eggs, 
one-half a pint of milk and a little salt ; pour half this mixture 
on a pint of flour ; beat very smooth and light and then pour in 
the remainder of the milk and eggs, to which is added a table - 
spoonful of butter or olive oil. Peel and cut the peaches in half; 
stir them in the batter and fry them in boiling fat until they are 
a delicate brown. Serve on a hot dish and sprinkle with pow- 
dered sugar. 

Tapioca Cream Pudding.— Three tablespoonf uls tapioca 
soaked three hours in one cup of cold water. Boil one quart of 
milk, and add the yolks of three eggs, beaten with one cup of 
sugar and the tapioca. Let this cool and then cover the top with 
the whites of the eggs beaten with three teaspoonfuls of powder- 
ed sugar ; brown in the oven ; flavor to taste. 

Fruit Puffs. — One pint flour, two teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der, one-half teaspoonf ul salt. Sift all together, then stir in sweet 
milk till a stiff butter is formed. Put a tablespoonf ul of batter 
into teacups till half the batter is used, place on it a spoonful of 
any kind of canned fruit, of preserves, or of stewed apples with- 
out the juice ; preserved blue plums are nice, and color the sauce 
a lovely pink; put a spoonful of butter on top of the fruit in each 
cup ; set the cups in a steamer, and steam twenty minutes. For 
sauce take one-half cup sugar, two spoonfuls butter, stir to a 
cream, add the fruit juice and a little grated nutmeg, or the 
sweet cream sugar and a little nutmeg. 

Dutch. Pudding. — One pint flour, one cup sour milk, one 
egg, one-half teaspoon soda, four apples, peeled and sliced; add 



tME RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 41 

^o the batter and stir smooth, then stir in a teaspoon of butter. 
3ake in shallow pan and serve with cream and sugar. 

Snow Pudding. — One pint of milk, one-half cup of sugar, 
one-half cup of coru -starch; let come to a boil and stir in three 
beaten eggs. Boil till thick and set away to cool. 

Cabinet Pudding. — One-half ounce of gelatine, (Peter 
Cooper's is best), one pint milk, three ounces powdered sugar, 
two ounces citron, one-fourth pound macaroons, one-fourth 
pound candied cherries, one lemon, one sponge cake. Soak the 
gelatine in two tablespoons of cold water till soft. Then put it 
over the fire in a sauce-pan with the sugar, milk, and rind of a 
/emon cut very thin. Let it heat very thoroughly. Stir occa- 
eionally until the sugar and gelatine are dissolved. Cut the 
citron in thin slices. Butter a pudding mould, thickly, wdth 
butter. Place the fruit and cake in alternate layers, and strain 
the milk into the mould. Set it in a cold place. Serve it when 
hard and firm. 

Indian Pudding as our grandmothers made them. Boil one 
quart of milk, sprinkle in while hot, one-half a pint of cornmeal; 
have it free from lumps. Add one-half pint molasses, one tea- 
spoon salt, lump of butter size of an egg. Mix thoroughly. Pour 
over all a pint of cold milk, stir well cogether and bake two hours 
in an earthen dish. 

Favorite Plum Pudding. — One pint each flour, suet mixed 
well in flour : bread crumbs, raisins and currants, two cups 
da-rk brown sugar, spice to suit taste ; all well mixed before put- 
ting in three eggs, one-half cup sweet milk, a little water if re- 
quired to make of a lumpy state, a small pinch of salt. Put in a 
pudding dish and tie tightly over top of dish and boil four hours. 

Appla Pudding. — Make a biscuit crust, i. e., one quart of 
flour, three small teaspoonf uls of baking powder, butter or lard 
the size of an egg, teaspoon ful salt, (less if butter is used), and 
milk enough so make a soft dough. Fill a deep baking dish with 
sliced apples, sweetened with molasses, and flavored with cinna- 
mon, and pounded dried lemon peel. Cover with the crust and 
bake in a moderate oven. 

Sago Pudding. — Steam four tablespoonfuls of sago in one 
quart of milk; when soft add one egg, two-thirds of a cupful of 



41 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

sugar, a little salt, raisius or not, according to taste. Good, hot 
or cold. 

Cracker Piidding'. — Soak four crackers in one qurt of milk 
add the yolks of three eggs, three tablespooufuls of sugar and a 
pinch of salt. Flavor and bake the same as custard ; when cook- 
ed spread with canned fruit or jelly, put on a meringue made 
from the beaten whites of the three eggs. Set away to cool. 

Indian Pudding. — One quart of milk, half a teacup of chop- 
ped suet and five teaspoonfuls of Indian meal. Scald half the 
milk and stir in the meal. To the remainder of the milk add 
one egg, one tablespoonful of tiour, one small teacup of molasses, 
one small teaspoonful ginger, and one cup of raisins; mix to- 
gether ; bake slowly two hours ; serve hot. 

Apple Dumplings. — Take some finely sifted flour, say one- 
half pound, and half the quantity of suet, one-fourth pound, 
very finely shred, and well freed from skin. Mix the suet and 
flour, add a pinch of salt, and a-half teaspoonful baking powder, 
with sufficient cold water or milk to make it of the right consist- 
ency. Knead it well, and roll it out to the thickness required. 
Divide this paste into as many pieces as are required for the 
dumplings. Take some large-sized apples, peel, core, sprinkle 
them with moist sugar, then insert into the cavity of each some 
butter, sugar and cloves. Cover them with the paste, and join 
the edges carefully. Tie each dumpling up in a floured cloth, 
and boil about an hour. Untie them carefully, and turn them out 
without breaking them. Serve with cream and sugar. A little 
currant jelly may be substituted for the butter, sugar and clove. 

Rice Pudding-. — One-half cup of rice, one and a-half pints 
milk, one-half cup of sugar, large pinch of salt, one tablespoonful 
lemon rind chopped fine. Put rice washed and picked, sugar, salt 
and milk in a quart pudding dish. Bake in a moderate oven two 
hours, stirring frequently first one and a quarter hours, then per- 
mit it to finish cooking with light colored crust. Eat with cream. 

Indian Pudding. — Take one pint milk, one-half cup molas- 
ses, two-thirds cup meal, scald the milk and stir into the others 
with a little salt, then add the rest of the milk cold. 1 put this 
in the oven after breakfast and let cook slowly till supper time, 
then it comes out looking red and all jellied. 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 43 

Delicate Indian Pudding*. — One quart of milk scalded, two 
heaping tablespooufuls of meal, cook twelve minutes; stir into 
this one tablespoonful of butter, then beat three eggs with four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, one half tablespoonful of ginger, salt to 
taste, mix all thoroughly, and bake one hour. 

Cooking' Rice. — One cup of rice, one and one-half cups boil- 
ing water, little salt, boil rapidly, well covered, set on back of 
stove and steam one-half hour or more. 

Puff Pudding.— One pint of sweet milk, four eggs, four 
tablespoons flour, mix flour with just enough milk to beat 
smoothly, gradually stirring in until all the milk is mixed, beat 
the yolks, then slowly pour the mixture into the yolks, beating 
all the time, lastly, the whites well beaten; bake in a quick oven. 
Eat with hard or wine sauce. 

Rasin Puffs. — Two eggs, one-half cup butter, three tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, two tablespoonfuls sugar, two cups 
flour, one cud chopped raisins; steam one-half hour in small cups. 

Potato Starch Pudding*. — To one quart of milk boiling hot, 
put four tablespoonfuls of potato starch, three eggs, and a little 
salt well mixed and beaten together, and your pudding is made. 
To be served with rich sauce. 

Baked Indian Meal Pudding. — Take one cup of meal, 
moisten with cold water, then pour on one pint of boiling water, 
while this is cooling take two eggs, one cup sugar, beat, add but- 
ter the size of an egg, then stir together and add sweet milk ac- 
cording to family. 

Steamed Pudding. — One-half cup of molasses, two-thirds 
cup of browned sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup sour milk, 
two level teaspoons of soda, one quart of flour, one cup of raisins, 
spices, any sauce can be used to suit the taste; steam one and one- 
half hours. 

Cocoanut Pudding. — Carefully grate one cocoauut. Beat 
to a cream one pound of powdered sugar and half a pound of 
good butter. Beat the whites of eleven eggs to a stiff froth. 
Stir the cocoanut, butter and sugar well together. Add one 
wine glass of rose water, one wine glass of wine and brandy 
mixed. Beat this mixture well. Grate one-half a rind of a lemon. 



44 THE RELIABLli COOK BOOK. 

Lastly add the whites of the eggs. Have a baking dish lined 
with paste and bake half an hour. Paste.— One cup of lard, one- 
half cup of water, one-half teaspoon salt. The above is a deli- 
cious pie crust. 

Apple Fritters.— Make a batter of the yolks of three eggs 
well beaten, one gill milk, four heaping tablespoonfuls flour and 
a saltspoonful salt, well mixed. The apples, which have been 
peeled, cored and cut in round slices, are dipped in this batter 
and fried a delicate brown in boiling fat; sprinkle with powdered 
sugar and serve. 

Lemon Rice Pudding.— One cup boiled rice, one pint 
milk, grated rind of a lemon, butter size of an egg, yolks of three 
eggs; bake twenty minutes; frost with the whites of the eggs, 
beaten with one-half pound white sugar and juice of the lemon; 
add just after taking from the oven; return and brown lightly; 
moderate oven; very nice. 

Pineapple Pudding.— Line a deep and buttered pudding 
dish with slices of sponge cake ; slice some pineapple in very 
thin slices and put it into the dish ; cover a layer of pineapple 
with a layer of cake, and so on until the dish is full ; scatter 
sugar plentifully over the pineapple ; the top layer of cake should 
be moistened with water and have sugar scattered over it. If you 
are the happy possessor of a pudding- dish with an earthen cover, 
put this over the pudding, otherwi-e cover it with a dinner plate 
and bake slowly one and three- fourths hours. The covei or plate 
should be buttered. 

Indian Custard Pudding.— One quart new milk, four tea- 
spoons fine Indian meal, one egg, salt, spice and sweeten to taste; 
beat tbe eggs and meal together, pour in the milk, stir twice while 
baking. 

Corn-starch Custard. — Six tablespoonfuls of corn-starch boil- 
ed in one quart of milk, sugar to taste, peel of two lemons grated 
and the juice of one. When thick, pour into a wetted dish. Beat 
one cup of sugar with the whites of five eggs and pour over the 
corn-starch; set in the oven until slightly browned. Serve hot 
or cold with a custard made of the yolks of the eggs. 

Frozen Pudding. — Ingredients : One and one-half pints of 
custard, composed of the yolks of four eggs, a pint of boiled milk. 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 45 

four tablespoonfuls of sugar, a flavoring of vanilla, eight ounces of 
fruits, consisting of equal parts of dried cherries, pineapple, dried 
pears or apricots, all cut into very small squares. These fruits may 
be selected, or perhaps it would be more convenient to purchase 
half a pound of the French preserved dried fruits ; or add one 
ounce of candied citron sliced, two ounces of currants, two ounces 
of chopped raisins, and half a pint of cream, whipped. Freeze 
the custard in the usual manner, then mix in the fruits and whip- 
ped cream. Put into a mould, and place it on ice and sat. Serve 
with whipped cream. 

Baked Apple Pudding:.— Fill earthen pudding-dish with 
pared and quartered apples. Prepare a crust of sweet cream, a 
very little soda and salt. Cover the apples, and put them in to 
bake one hour before dinner. It can be eaten with sugar or any 
kind of pudding sauce. 

Virginia's Plum Pudding. — One cup of molasses, one tea- 
spoonful soda, mix it into it well; one cup of suet chopped tine, 
or three-fourths of a cup of butter, one cup of milk, one teaspoon- 
ful of cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg, one cup of raisins, currants 
and citron, three cups of flour, a little salt ; boil about five hours. 

Farmers' Pudding. — Two eggs, one cup sweet milk, one 
pint flour, two tablespoons each melted butter and sugar, two tea- 
spoons baking powder. Steam from twenty to twenty-five min- 
utes, and serve with sauce. 

Prune Pudding.- Scald one pound French prunes, let them 
swell in hot water until soft; extract stones; spread on a dish and 
dredge with flour; take a gill of milk from one quart, stir in grad- 
ually eight tablespoonfuls sifted flour; beat six eggs light, and 
stir by degrees into remainder of the quart of milk, alternating 
with the batter; add prunes, one at a time, stir very hard, boil two 
hours and serve with cream or wine sauce. 

Southern Potato Pudding. — One pint of grated raw pota- 
toes, one-half pound brown sugar, one-quarter pound butter, two 
eggs; stir constantly while baking, when done leave in stove long 
enough to brown a little. 

Steamed Pudding. — Half cup each sugar and butter, three 
eggs, one cup sweet milk, three heaping teaspoons baking powder 
two cups flour. Steam one hour, serve with sauce. 



46 THE KELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Puff Pudding — Eight eggs, one quart sweet milk, eight 
tablespocnfuls of flour, wet the flour with enough milk to beat 
smooth, then gradually stir in the whole quart, beat the yolks 
and stir them in slowly, then lastly the whites; bake in buttered 
dish. Eat with hard sauce. 

Tapioca Pudding. — Take ten tablespoonfuls of tapioca, 
wash it in warm water, drain off the water, and put the tapioca 
in a pan with a quart of rich milk, set the pan over a kettle of 
boiling water and stir it till it thickens, then add two tablespoons 
of butter, six of white sugar, one grated lemon or flavor to suit 
the taste with good lemon or vanilla extract; remove the pan 
from the fire, aud having beaten four egijs very light stir them 
gradually into the mixture, pour it into a buttered dish and bake 
three-fourths of an hour. Serve with rich cream or custard 
sauce. 

Pop Overs. — Two cups sweet milk, two cups sifted flour, 
two eggs, two teaspoons butter, one-half teaspoonful salt; beat 
eggs, add milk, then the flour and salt and after beating thor- 
oughly stir in the butter which has been melted, use no soda or 
baking powders. Have the oven hot, bake in well-buttered roll 
pans (which should be heated) about one-half hour. 

French. Tapioca Pudding. — Two ounces of tapioca, one- 
half pint of water, one-half pint of milk, one well-beaten egg, one 
teaspoonful of lemon extract. Boil the tapioca in the water until 
it begins to melt and then slowly add the milk, egg and flavoring. 
Bake for twenty minutes. 

Cottage Pudding. — Two eggs, one cup sweet milk, two 
tablespoons of sugar, two tablespoons of melted butter, one pint 
of flour, two teaspoons of baking jDowder, flavor with nutmeg. 
Steam one hour and serve with sweetened cream. 

Rice Meringue Pudding. — Put a teacup of rice in a pint 
of water. When the water is boiled away, add a pint of milk, a 
piece of butter the size of an egg, the yolks of three eggs and the 
grated rind of one lemon. Mix well. Pour into a pudding dish, 
spread over the top the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth 
with a teacup of sugar. Set in the oven and brown a little. 

Mountain Snow Pudding. — One and a-half pints milk, two 
milk crackers rolled, beaten yolks of three eggs; flavor, and bake 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 47 

twenty minutes, then spread the beaten whites and three table- 
spoons sugar over the top, and return to the oven until slightly 
browned. Very nice and delicate. 

Brown Betty. — Place in a pudding-dish first a layer of finely 
sliced apples, sugared to taste and dusted over with powdered 
cinnamon, next a layer of coarsely crumbed bread, scattered with 
bits of butter. Alternate these layers until the dish is full, let- 
ting the last layer consist of apples. Pour on sufficient water to 
moisten the whole, cover, and place in the oven. When the ap- 
ples on the top are tender, remove the cover and bake until brown. 
Serve hot, without sauce. 

Chocolate Pudding. — One quart of milk, three ounces of 
chocolate, grated; four eggs, one cup of sugar, two teaspoonfuls 
of vanilla. Boil milk with chocolate; when dissolved, take from 
fire and add yolks of eggs, beaten well with sugar. Bake like 
custard in a dish of hot water; when cold frost with the whites 
and brown; to be eaten cold. 

Berry Pudding. — One cup molasses, one cup milk, one egg, 
one teaspoonful cream tartar, one teaspoonful soda; flour to make 
a stiff batter, and berries. Steam one and one-half or two hours. 

Spong-e Pudding. — Use three-quarter cup of flour, one-half 
cup of sugar, one pint sweet milk, six eggs, beaten separately. 
Blend the flour with a little of the milk, put the rest with the 
sugar on the stove until it begins to boil, then add the blended 
flour. Have the yolks well beaten in the dish you are to bake it 
in. Pour the hot mixture on it, blend thoroughly, then add the 
beaten whites. Set the dish in a pan of water and bake from one- 
half to a quarter of an hour. Serve with liquid sauce. 

Steamed Pudding-. — Two eggs, one cupful sugar, one cup- 
ful sour milk, one- half teaspoonful soda and three cupf uls flour; 
one cupful of fruit if you like. Steam two hours. To be eaten 
with sweetened cream or sauce. 

Baked Indian Pudding. — Five tablespoonfuls of Indian 
meal, two tablespoonfuls of flour, two eggs, one cup of molasses, 
one teaspoonful of salt. Mix well together and pour on one 
quart of boiling milk. When mixed well together pour in one 
quart of cold milk, but do not stir it. 

Steamed Indian Pudding.— Three cupf uls of Indian meal, 



48 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

a cupful of flour, three cupf uls of sweet milk, a cupful of sour 
milk, three-fourths cupful of molasses, a teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in the sweet milk, the flour and meal stirred too'ether to 
prevent lumps, a teaspoonful of salt; steam four hours, and eat 
with hot butter or cream sweetened a little, and flavored with nut- 
meg. 

Rhubarb Pudding is made in this way. Use an earthen 
dish and line with slices of bread and butter, cover with cut up 
rhubarb, over which put a layer of sugar, then another layer of 
bread and butter, then rhubarb and sugar, and so on until the 
dish is full, having the top layer rhubarb and sugar. Cover 
tightly and bake half an hour. Serve while warm with a sweet 
sauce. 

Cracker Pudding. — A plain but very nice pudding. Soak 
in one quart warm milk, one pint cracker crumbs, add yolks two 
beaten eggs, one-half cup sugar, small piece butter, pinch salt 
(nutmeg or without, to suit taste); bake one-half hour; beat 
whites of two eggs to a froth, add two tablespoonf uls sugar and 
flavor with lemon, spread on pudding, brown in oven. 

Fried Bananas. — Take firm bananas, peel and slice, sprin- 
kle with a little salt, dip the slices in a thin batter and fry in but- 
ter. Must be eaten hot. 

Orang-e Ambrosia. — Take two large oranges, peel and 
slice ; put in a deep glad's dish a layer of orange and sprinkle with 
sugar. Then add a layer of grated cocoanut and again sprinkle 
with sugar; keep on until all is used, finishing with a thin layer of 
cocoanut ; buy a cocoanut and grate it, which is cheaper than 
using the prepared. 

Velvet Cream. — Soak one-half box gelatine in a cup of cold 
water, scald one quart of milk, beat the yolks of five eggs with 
ten tablespoonf uls sugar. Add all to milk and boil, beat whites 
to froth, and stir in when cool ; add two tablespoonf uls wine and 
one of vanilla. Pour into moulds and set away to freeze. 

Banana Pudding.— Place a layer of cake, then of bananas, 
in a dish, until nearly full, leaving bananas on top. Then make 
a custard of three eggs, a pint of milk, and pour over tliem. Whip 
cream and put on top. 

Trifle. — Take slices of cake, and place in the bottom of a 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 49 

glass dish. Pour over it whipped cream. First dip the cake 
in sherry. 

Lemon Jelly. — Juice and grated rind of one lemon, one 
large sour apple grated, one egg, one cup sugar. Stir constantly 
till it boils. 

Lemon Jelly. — One lemon, one cup of sugar, one egg, one 
tablespoonful cold water, grate the rind, squeeze out the juice, 
beat all together and boil until it thickens. 

Orang-e Jelly (French). — Swell two ounces of gelatine in 
two quarts of cold water, with twelve spoonfuls of sugar, and the 
whites of two eggs beaten to a froth ; strain through a wet nap- 
kin into an earthen dish ; add the rind of four very fair oranges, 
pared very thin ; cover, and partly cool ; add the juice of eight 
oranges and two lemons ; strain, and mix with the other ingre- 
dients. A few drops of yellow coloring is an improvement. It 
is then ready for cooling. 

Apple Compote. — This is a delicious dish. Cut up, skins 
and all, six apples and boil in one pint water until apples are soft. 
Drain off the juice, and add to it one cup sugar, and a little grat- 
ed lemon rind (only the yellow, none of the white, ever). Boil this 
mixture one minute, put six apples pared and cored (with a patent 
corer that leaves the apples whole) into the sauce thus prepared 
and cook until tender. Then remove the apples, and fill centres 
with orange marmalade. Boil the sauce in which they were 
cooked until it jellies, and pour it over the apples. This is an 
ornamental dish when daintily served, and most delicious to the 
taste. 

Coffee Jelly. — One- half box gelatine dissolved in one-half 
cup of cold water, two hours, pour over this one pint boiling cof- 
fee; stir thoroughly, add one cup sugar when this is dissolved, 
pour over one- half cup boiling water. 

Blanc Mang-e. — Four tablespoons of corn-starch to one quart 
of milk, beat the corn-starch thoroughly with two eggs, and add 
to it the milk when near boiling, with a little salt, boil a few min- 
utes stirring it briskly, flavor to taste and pour into a mould ; 
sweeten while cooking or use a sauce of cream and sugar. To be 
eaten cold. 



50 THE llELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Orange Pudding-. — One quart milk, three tablespooufuls 
corn-starch, yolks four eggs, one-hUf cup sugar. Pare and slice 
the oranges, and place in a dish in layers alternately with sugar, 
make a custard of the other ingredients and pour over tliem. Beat 
the wliites of the eggs and three tablespooufuls of sugar together, 
put on top, and set in the oven to brown. Peaches may be used 
the same way. 

Wine Jelly. — Dissolve in a little warm water, one ounce is- 
inglass, add a pint of port wine, two ounces sugar, one ounce gum 
arabic and one-half nutmeg grated, mix all well, then boil ten 
minutes or until dissolved, strain and set away to cool. 

Sno"w Pudding. — Soak half a box of gelatine (white) in half 
pint warm water until it is dissolved ; then add half pint boiling 
water, when cold add the whites of three eggs, two cups sugar, 
juice of one large lemon, beat the whole well, one-half hour will 
not be too long, and put in a mould to cool. Make a boiled cus- 
tard and the yolks and a pint of sweet milk, sweeten to taste and 
pour over the pudding. It is good, as well as very pretty. 

Corn-starch, Blanc Mange and Chocolate Sauce. — Take 
two tablespoonfuls of corn-starch and mix with cold milk very 
smooth ; warm to boiling point two points of milk, in which 
some lemon rind, sugar and a few drops of essence had been put 
and pour into the corn-starch without the lemon peel, while stir- 
ring all the time. Let simmer a few minutes while stirring, and 
pour into a shape. Melt a little fresh butter in sauce-pan, stir in 
half a spoon of corn flour and some chocolate finely scraped, with 
sugar to taste, pour in warm milk, stirring all the time, and beat 
up with the yolk of an egg. Having turned out the blanc mange 
at serving, pour the chocolate sauce over it. 

Apricot Cream. — Take a jar of preserved apricots. Turn 
out the contents into a sauce-pan. Add two ounces of sugar. Let 
them boil for a-quarter of an hour. Pass them through a tammy. 
Dissolve an ounce of gelatine in a little cold milk. Whip to a 
froth a pint of cream. Mix the gelatine with the apricot pulp, 
then quickly work into it the cream. Pour the mixture into a 
mould, and put it on the ice to set. 

Tapiooa Cream. — Soak three tablespoonfuls of tapioca in a 
pint of cold T^ater over night. In the morning drain, put the tap- 



THE RELIABT'E COOK BOOK 51 

ioca, yolks three eggs, well beaten, and a large three-fourths cup 
of sugar into one quart of boiling milk. Let it all boil a few min- 
utes, then take from the fire. Flavor with lemon or vaui la. Beat 
the whites of the eggs and mix through. Pour in a dish to cool. 

Boiled Custard.— One quart of milk, the yolks of four eggs, 
four large tablespoonfuls of powdered or granulated sugar, one 
teaspoonful of wheat flour, a small pinch of salt; beat the eggs, 
sugar and flour together, thinning it with a little of the milk; 
boil the milk and pour it while boiling on the eggs, etc., stirring 
it, and return it to the .skillet; keep stirring it carefully until the 
eggs are thoroughly cooked; after pouring into bowl, continue 
stirring until nearly cold, then flavor to taste. The whites of the 
eggs beaten very light with any well flavored firm fruit jelly, and 
dropped in spoonfuls over the custard, make a very palatable 
dish. 

A Nice Dessert. — Soak two cups of bread or crackers in 
water, squeeze dry; add the yolks of three well beaten eggs, one- 
half cup sugar, cinnamon to taste; stir well, then add the whites 
of three eggs. Fry in small cakes in hot lard or butter. Should 
be served hot with stewed prunes. 

Spanish Cream. — One quart milk, four eggs, one- half box 
gelatine. Pour half the milk on gelatine and let it stand an hour; 
add the rest of the milk, and boil all together. Separate the eggs, 
adding twelve tablespoons sugar to the beaten yolks and four to 
the whites. When the milk and gelatine have boiled add the 
yolks. When the cream is thick and smooth, take off the fire and 
let it get quite cool, then add the whites. Use vanilla, or a lit- 
tle wine gives it a good flavor. 

Neapolitan Blanc Mange. — Heat one pint milk, stir in two 
tablespoonfuls corn-starch dissolved in a little milk, two table- 
spoonfuls sugar, letting it boil a few minutes, add strawberry 
coloring. Set away to cool. Heat another pint and make the 
same way, using vanilla for flavoring, and to a third pint grated 
chocolate. When cool put together in layers so when dipped out 
there will be the three colors, which makes a very pretty dish 
served. 

Sno-w, Ice and Tha-w. — Put one-half package of gelatine in 
a little cold water, then pour over one pint of boiling watexr, when 



53 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

cool add the juice of two lemons, and a scant pint of sugar, when 
cold add the whites of two eggs well beaten. Beat all to a stiff 
fro h, pour into moulds and let it stand till next day. Make a 
soft custard of one egg and the yoU^s of three, one cup sugar and 
one pint milk. Beat up the whites of the eggs with sugar, and 
put over the top. 

Bananas and Cream. — Slice eight or ten bananas thin into 
a glass dish, sprinkle with powdered sugar, then pour over a 
cupful of whipped cream and serve with cake. 

Ice Cream.— Four eggs, one quart milk, one tablespoonful 
corn-starch, six tablespoonfuls sugar. Boil iu a pan over a kettle 
of water, flavor and freeze. 

"White Mountain for Dessert. — Tliree cups milk, four eggs, 
one cup sugar, one small tablespoon corn -starch or flour, and one 
teaspoon extract lemon; put milk on stove to boil, beat the whites 
with three tablespoons Miiite sugar, one teaspoon lemon; put 
them in the boiling milk to cook, turn them with a large ladle, 
and lift carefully out; beat the yolks, sugar and starch smooth, 
stir in milk, let boil, take from stove and stir in one teaspoon 
lemon- cool so as not to break the dish; put in dish, and put on 
top the cooked whites. Keep in a cool place until wanted; set 
on table, and sprinkle red sugar over top. 

Macedoine of Fruits. — One-fourth pound of candied grapes, 
one-fourth pound of candied oranges, one-fourth pound of can- 
died cherries, one-fourth pound of candied currants, one-half 
pint of wine jelly, one-half pint of currant jelly, one-half pint of 
lemon jelly, one-half pint of orange jelly. Melt each jelly sepa- 
rately. Pour the wine jelly into a mould. Set away to become 
hard. Then put the oranges on top of it, and the currant jelly 
on top of that. Let it set. "When firm, put on it the grapes, and 
on top of that pour the lemon jelly. When firm pile on the cher- 
ries. Lastly pour over the orange jelly, and pile with the cur- 
rants. Set upon the ice, till perfectly firm. Turn out and serve. 

V's Cup Custards. — Yolks of four eggs, four tablespoons- 
ful of sugar, one pint of milk, warm the milk, beat eggs and su- 
gar together, stir into the warm milk a little vanilla, put into 
cups, add nutmeg, put cups into a pan of warm water and bake 
in a slow oven. 



THE KELIABLE COOK BOOK. 53 

A Nice Dish, of Apples.— One pint of the pulp of roasted 
apples, strained; one-half pint of pulverized sugar; the whites of 
three eggs. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, then add 
a spoonful of apple, and a spoonful of sugar alternately, beating 
all together until the mixture stands perfectly stiff on the spoon. 
It will swell very much. Make a boiled custard of the three 
yolks of eggs, one piut of milk, two tablespoonf uls of sugar, and 
flavor with vanilla. Place the custard in saucers, and cover with 
the apple sauce, and serve. 

Lemon Cream. — Take the grated rinds and juice of three 
lemons with three-quarters of a pound of sugar; add to a box of 
Cox's gelatine dissolved in a piut of sherry wine. Stir it well 
over the fire, then strain and stir it carefully into a quart of 
cream. Mould when cool. For orange cream substitute three 
juicy orauges and add a wineglass of brandy. 

Prune "Whip. — Sweeten and stew three-quarters of a pound 
of prunes; when perfectly cold add the whites of four eggs beat- 
en stiff; stir together and bake twenty minutes; when cold serve 
to be eaten with cream. 

Caramel Custard. — One quart of new milk, six eggs, one 
cupful brown sugar, one cupful white sugar, a teaspoonful and a 
half of vanilla. While the milk is heating put the brown sugar 
in a hot spider and stir till it is quite browu ; add this to the hot 
milk, and proceed as with any custard. When thick, strain and 
set in a cool place. It is nicest when made the day before using. 

Salted Peanuts. — Shell the peanuts or almonds, remove the 
skins, put in a dripping pan with just enough butter to make 
them glossy and then brown them in a hot oven, shaking the pan 
frequently to make them brown evenly, when the nuts are brown 
sprinkle them with salt. 

Chocolate Jelly. — Take seven spoonfuls of grated chocolate, 
the same of white sugar, one cup of sweet cream; mix together 
and set over the fire and let come to a boil. Pour it over corn- 
starch pudding, or put between layers of cake. 



PART VI. 

Cakes. 

Orange Cake.— Teacup of sugar, oue-half cup butter, one- 
half cup of water, two cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der, yolks of three eggs, juice of an orange. Bake in four tins 
like AVashington pie, and place one above the other with the fol- 
lowing icing spread between : Teacup granulated sugar, one-half 
cup boiling water. Boil until a little dropped in water will hard- 
en and can be rolled into a ball. Beat the whites of two eggs to 
a froth, pour the syrup on the eggs, slowly beating all the time 
until the mixture is creamy. Add the juice and grated rind of 
an orange and spread. Be careful not to cook the syrup too much. 
It will be coarse if cooked longer than necessary. 

Orange Cake. — Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, four 
eggs, juice of two oranges, and grated peel of one, the grated peel 
of half a lemon, three cups of flour, one teaspoon baking powder. 
Mix the juice and peel with the sugar, add the butter, then the 
yolks, and lightly sift in the flour, whisk in the white of the egg, 
and hurry the cake into the oven. Bake in three cakes. Be- 
tween each layer and on top spread frosting made of the whites 
of two eggs, two cups of sugar, and the grated peel and juice of 
one small orange. 

Orange Cake. — Two cups sugar, one and one-half cups 
melted butter, one cup of milk, three cups of flour, yolks of four 
eggs, white of three, two teaspoons baking powder, grated rind' 
of orange. Filling. — White of one egg, juice of two oranges, ^ 
rinds of two, sugar to make thick enough to spread smooth. 
Bake in two tins and spread filling between and on the top. 

Excellent Orange Cake. — Two cups of sugar, half a cup 
of water that has been boiled, yolks of five eggs, two cups of flour, 
grated rind and juice of one orange, one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, a half teaspoonful of soda and a litt'e salt ; bake in layer. 
Icing for the cake : Beat the reserved whites of four eggs to a 
froth, stir in powdered sugar until quite stiff, add grated rind 
and juice of an orange. Put the cakes together with this. If 



THE KELIABLE COOK BOOK. 55 

you wish to cover the xop of the cake with the icing make stiffer 
with powdered sugar. 

Cocoanut Cake. — Two eggs, two cups of sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, one cup of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, one and one-half cups 
of flour, flavor to taste. Take the white of one egg, beat to a 
stiff froth, add one-half cup of granulated sugar, spread between 
the layers and on top, and sprinkle with grated cocoanut. 

Cocoanut Cake. — One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
two eggs, one cup of milk, one and one- half teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, two cups of flour, bake in layers. Filling. — Boil one 
pint of milk, add when boiling a-half cup of Schepp's cocoanut, 
take a tablespoonful of corn-starch, two of sugar, one egg, beat 
all together, in a-half cup of cold milk and then stir in the boiling 
milk, when cool spread between layers. 

Cocoanut Cake. — One cup sugar, half cup butter, one egg 
and yolks of two, half cup milk, two cups flour, half teaspoon 
cream tartar, quarter teaspoon soda, flavor with lemon, bake in 
two layers. Filling. — Beat two whites to a froth, two tablespoons 
sugar, spread between and on top, sprinkle with cocoanut, 

Cocoanut Cake. — Two cups sugar, three cups flour, two- 
thirds cup butter, one cup sweet milk, whites of five eggs, two 
teaspoons baking powder. Bake in layers. For filling. — One 
pint sweet milk, one-half cup sugar, one egg, three teaspoonfuls 
corn-starch, cook thoroughly, stir in one grated cocoanut. 

May's Cocoanut Cake. — The whites of six eggs, two cups 
of powdered sugar, three-fourths of a cup of butter, one cup of 
sweet milk, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, one of lemon essence, spread this cake top and sides with 
cocoanut icing when done- 
Nut Cake.— Two and one-half cups of sugar, one cup of but- 
ter, one cup of milk, four cups of flour, four eggs, whites and 
yolks beaten separately, three teaspoons of baking powder. This 
makes three layers and six small round cakes. For Summer only 
use three-fourths of a cup of butter. Between the layers. — 
Whites of two eggs, one tablespoon of powdered sugar to an egg 
well beaten, one coffee cup of chopped hickory nuts. Frost the 



56 THEi keliable cooit BOOit. 

top with plain frosting and lay on whole meats. English walnuts 
can be used instead. 

Hickory Nut Cake. — Two eggs, one cup sugar, one-half 
cup each of butter and sweet milk, one cup flour, one teaspoon 
baking powder and one cup of hickory nut meats or any other 
kind of uuts. 

Nut Cake.— One cup butter, two cups sugar, four eggs, one 
cup milk, two teaspoons baking powder, sifted through with 
three cups flour, one and a-half cups shagbark meats. Frost the 
top, and before marking it off put rows of English walnut meat 
(broken in halves) across on every side. 

Nut Cake. — One cup sugar, half cup butter, half cup milk, 
two cups flour, two eggs, one cup chopped raisins, one cup 
chopped English walnuts, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half 
teaspoonful soda. 

Chocolate Cake.— One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
two eggs, one-half cup of milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one 
teaspoonful cream tartar, two cups flour. The cream is made 
thus: One-third cake of chocolate, one-lialf cup of milk, yolk 
of one egg, sugar to taste; boil until stiff; when cold spread over 
the cake. 

Chocolate Cake.— One cup butter, two of sugar, five eggs, 
(leaving out the whites of two), one cup sweet milk, oae teaspoon 
cream tartar, one half of soda, both dissolved in milk, three and 
one-half cups of flour, scant measure. For frosting take the 
whites of two eggs, one and one-half cups of powdered sugar, six 
large tablespoons grated chocolate, two teaspoons vanilla; frost 
while the cake is hot. 

Chocolate Cake. — Two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, three 
cups of flour, one-half cup of butter, three teaspoons of baking 
powder, three eggs, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla, make four lay- 
ers. Filling. — Two squares of chocolate grated, one cup of pul- 
verized sugar, one half cup of boiling milk, stir all together and 
add one heaping teaspoonful of cornstarch stirred in a little cold 
milk. Flavor with vanilla. 

Chocolate Marble Cake. — One cup of butter, two cups of 
sugar, one of sweet milk, three of flour, M'hites of five eggs, three 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 57 

teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Take out one teacupful of the 
batter, add to it five tablespoons of grated chocolate, moistened 
with vanilla. Pour a layer of the white batter into the baking- 
pan, then drop the chocolate batter with a spoon in spots and 
spread the remainder of the white batter over it. 

Chocolate Cake. — Two cups sugar, half-cup butter, three 
eggs, one cup milk, three cups flour, two teaspoons baking pow- 
der; bake in jelly tins. Make caramel as follows: Butter size of 
an egg, pint brown sugar, half a cup milk or water, half a cake 
chocolate; boil until thick enough and pour over cakes while 
warm. 

Chocolate Cake. — Whites of four eggs, two cups of sugar, 
one-half cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, 
two teaspoons of baking powder. Filling: One cup chocolate, 
one cup sugar, one cup milk, yolks of four eggs. 

Chocolate Cake. — Two cups sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one cup milk, three cups flour, one teaspoon cream of tartar, one- 
half teaspoon soda, two eggs; take two squares chocolate grated, 
dissolve in a little boiling water, one-half cup sugar, add three 
large spoonfuls cake dough, mix well and marble. Chocolate 
frosting. 

Chocolate Cake.— One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, beat- 
en to a cream, the whites of four eggs, whipped stiff, one-half 
cup sweet milk, one heaping teaspoonful of baking powder, mixed 
in one good cup of flour. Take half of the mixture and grate in 
one square of chocolate, add one teaspoon of vanilla, then dip to- 
gether the same as marble cake. 

Raised Cake. — One heaping pint bowl of bread dough as 
soon as it is ready to mould into loaves, four eggs beaten separ- 
ately, one cup butter, two cups sugar, two tablespoons cinnamon, 
one nutmeg, one-half teaspoon soda, one pint bowl of stoned 
raisins, mix by hand; put the dough in a large bowl ; first work 
in the butter, then the sugar and spice, next the yolks of the 
eggs, then the beaten whites, then the soda dissolved in a little 
warm water, and lastly the raisins. Bake in two loaves after 
raising fifteen minutes. 

Loaf Cake. — Three cups of milk, two cups of sugar, and 
one and one-third cups of lard and butter mixed or all lard. 



58 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

whites of threo eggs, one yeast cake. Make a sponge of yeast 
first. Stir in flour as thick as you can with a spoon. Rise over 
night. Add in the morning the sugar, lard, eggs, together witli 
raisins, two nutmegs, citron, and brandy. Work all together, 
and rise again. Then put into pans and bake, leaving the oven 
open just a few moments. This makes four loaves. 

Buttermilk Cake.— Four eggs, two cups sugar, one cup 
butter, one cup sour or buttermilk, teaspoon soda, four cups sifted 
flour, cream butter and sugar together, then add the eggs well 
beateu and milk and last flour, beat well, do not stir. Bake in 
moderate oven. 

Iiemon Cake. — Two cups of sugar, one-half cup butter, 
three eggs, three cups flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Jelly for cake. — The rinds of two lemons, juice of same, one cup 
of sugar, one egg, one-half cup of water, oneteaspoonful of butter, 
one tablespoonful of flour ; mix the latter with a little water, boil 
till a little thick and spread between cakes when cool. 

Caramel Cake. — For the cake : Two eggs, one cup of sugar, 
one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, two cups of flour, 
one teaspoon of cream tartar, one-half teaspoon of soda. Bake 
in layers. Filling : One cup of sugar, the white of one egg and 
one large sour apple, pared and grated ; beat all together until 
you can turn the dish upside down, then spread on top and be- 
tween the layers. 

Layer Cake.— One cup sugar, two eggs, two-thirds cup of 
milk, three tablespoonfuls butter, two cups flour, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder. For the filling, one cup each of walnut meats 
and raisins chopped in frosting, with half meats of English wal- 
nuts on top. Try this and see how pretty and good it is. 

Fig Layer Cake.— One cup sugar, three even tablespoons of 
butter, one egg and the yolks of two, two-thirds of a cup of milk, 
two cups of flour, one teaspoon of soda, two of cream tartar, 
bake in threo layers. Fig paste : One cup sugar, one-fourth cup 
water, boil till thick ; test by dropping a little in cold water, like 
candy ; beat the white of one egg to a stiff froth ; chop eight figs 
very fine, take the sugar from the stove, cool five minutes, add 
the white of egg, beat fiv^ minutes and add the figs. Spread on 
the cake ; delicious. 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 59 

Date Cake. — Make a plain loaf cake as follows : One aud 
one-half cups sugar, two eggs, reserving white of one for frost- 
ing, butter size of an egg, one cup water, two heaping teaspoons 
baking powder and flour to mix rather soft. Prepare dates by 
washing and removing stones, cut each one in four pieces, flour 
well and stir in cake. Bake quickly in middling hot oven. 

Pineapple Cake. — One cup of butter, two cups sugar, one 
cup of milk, three cups of flour, whites of six eggs and yolks of 
four, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder well mixed through 
flour ; I ake in layers, grate a pineapple, sprinkle with sugar, 
spread between the layers, pineapple jam may be substituted ; 
frost the outside, beat two tablespoonfuls of pineapple into the 
frosting. 

Banana Cake. — One cup butter, small cup sweet milk, two 
cups sugar, two teaspoons baking powder, three cups flour. Bake 
in layers, spread the whites of four eggs. Boiled frosting between 
layers. Slice bananas (three good sized ones) thin and distribute 
over frosting and sprinkle fine white sugar over bananas. 

Banana Cake. — Half cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups 
flour, three eggi, one cup sweet m Ik, one and one-half teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder. Mixture for cake between layers ; Two 
cups sugar, one-fourth cup of water, whites of two eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth, boil the sugar and water till it threads, then pour 
over the beaten whites and beat until cold ; spread icing on each 
layer and on top of icing the slices of three large bananas. 

Ribbon Cake. — Three eggs, one and one-half cups of sugar, 
one-half cup of butter, two-thirds cup of sweet milk, three cups 
of flour, and two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder, mix all 
thoroughly, take out one-third for the dark loaf, add to it one-half 
cup of raisins, two tablespoonfuls of molasses and spices to taste; 
bake the light in two loaves, the dark in one and put together 
with jelly or frosting. 

Ribbon Cake. — One cup of sugar, three-fourths cup of but- 
ter, two cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
whites of five eggs, mixed. Take from tnis mixture a large table- 
spoon of batter, to this add one-half cup of chopped raisins, one- 
half cup chopped citron, one-half cup flour, one-half cup molasses, 
two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, one-half teaspoonf ul of cloves, one 



60 THE BELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

wine-glass of brandy. Bake in layers like jelly cake with frost- 
ing between one layer of the light batter and one layer of the 
dark. Place a pan of water in the stove while baking to keep the 
cake soft. 

Harlequin Cake. — Take one cup sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, two-thirds cup of milk, whites of three eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, two small cups 
flour. After mixing this, divide into three parts, leaving one of 
the parts white; add to one part the yolks of two eggs, and one 
tablespoonful of flour; to the third part add enough red sugar to 
color it. Put it together with frosting. 

Dolly Varden Cake.— One cup granulated sugar, one-half 
cup butter beaten to a cream, add one egg and the yolks of two 
more well beaten, one teaspoon of vanilla (or any essence you 
prefer), two-thirds cup sweet milk, one teaspoon baking powder, 
and flour to make good consistency for layer cake. Put one- 
third dough in one jelly tin, one-third in another and add spices 
and chopped raisins and citrons to remainder. Use this for mid- 
dle layer, putting together with frosting made from whites of two 
eggs and half cup pulverized sugar. 

Corn-Starch. Cake. — Two cupfuls sugar, one cupful butter 
rubbed to a cream with sugar, one cupful sweet milk, two cup- 
fuls flour, three eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, one- 
half cupful corn-starch, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar sifted 
well through the flour, one teaspoouful soda dissolved in hot 
water. Sift the corn-starch with the flour and add the last thing. 
This makes a perfectly delicious cake and is a large loaf. 

Apple Cake, — Cut into eighths five apples; take two cups 
of flour, one cup of water, half a cup of lard, one cup sugar. 
Mix together and roll out into dough, large enough to cover an 
ordinary baking pan. Grease the pan before putting in the 
dough, with the cut apples on top, and bake slowly for a-half 
hour. 

Dried Apple Cake. — Soak one and one-half cups dried ap- 
ples in as little water as possible over night. In the morning 
drain, chop and boil half an hour in one cup of syrup. Add, 
when the apples are slightly warm, one-half cup of butter and 
two-thirds cup of sugar beaten to a cream, then two well-beaten 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK, 6l 

eggs, two heaping cups of flour, a teaspoon and a- half of yeast 
powder, one-half cup of raisins, small teaspoonful cloves, one 
cinnamon and one nutmeg, salt and lemon. Bake slowly in a 
moderate oven. 

Pound Cake. — One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, 
one pound of flour, nine eggs, nutmeg to taste. 

One Pound Cake.— One pound seedless raisins, one pound 
currants, one-half pound citron, one-half pound almonds, one 
pound coffee sugar, three-fourths pound butter, one pound flour, 
two teaspoonfuls cinnamon, one teaspoonful cloves, two teaspoon- 
fuls allspice, one teaspoonful baking powder, vanilla to taste. 

One, Two, Three, Four Cake. — One cup butter, one cup 
buttermilk, two cups sugar, three cups flour, four eggs, one tea- 
spoon soda, two teaspoons cream tartar, lemon essence to taste. 

Fruit Cake. — One-half cup of butter, one-half cup of brown 
sugar, one-half cup of molasses, one-half cup of sour milk, the 
yolks of four eggs, one-half teaspoon of soda, one teaspoon d 
cref>m tartar, one and one-half cups of flour one cup of raisinv 
chopped fine, one cup of currants, one teaspoon each of cloves, 
cinnamon and nutmeg. The whites can be used for Delicate 
Cake. 

Cheap Fruit Cake. — One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, 
one cup of molasses, four eggs, one-half pound chopped raisins, 
one-half pound currants, one-fourth pound citron, one-half tea- 
spoonful cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg, one-half teaspoon soda/ 
three and one-half teacups flour. 

Fruit Cake — Two cups of sugar, one-half cup molasses. 
two eggs, one and one-half cups sour milk, one cup butter, one 
teaspoonful saleratus, one and one-half cups raisins, one cup cur- 
rants. 

White Fruit Cake. — Two cups of white sugar beaten to a 
cream, with one cup of butter, one cup of milk, two and one-half 
cups of flour, whites of seven eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Mix thoroughly and add one pound each of sliced cit- 
ron, raisins, blanched almonds and figs. 

White Fruit Cake. — Two eggs, one-half cup butter, one- 
half cup sweet milk, one cup sugar, one cup raisins, two teaspoons 
baking powder. 



62 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Tumbler Fruit Cake.— One tumbler of butter, one turn 
bier of sugar, one tumbler of molasses, one tumbler of eggs, one 
pound of raisins, one pound of currants, one-half pound of citron, 
one-fourth teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of all kinds of 
spice and salt. 

YellQ-w Pound Cake. — One cup butter, two cups sugar, 
three cups flour, one-half cup sweet milk, yolk of six eggs and 
one whole one, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, 
one-quarter pound citron, one cup ralsius stoned. 

Wedding Fruit Cake. — One pound butter, one pound sugar, 
eight eggs, one pound flour, one pound currants, one pound 
raisins, one-half pound citron, one ounce cinnamon, two nutmegs, 
one ounce cloves, one wineglassful brandy, three teaspoonfuls 
baking powder mixed in the flour. 

Cup Cake.— Four cups flour, two cups sugar, one cup but- 
ter, one cup cream, one cup raisins, one cup currants, four eggs 
one lemon, two teaspoons baking powder. Beat the butter and 
sugar to a cream. Stir in slowly a little flour, after it has been 
thoroughly mixed with the baking powder. Then pour in the 
cream, the raisins and currants, the beaten eggs, and the grated 
rind of one lemon. Stir in the rest of the flour. Bake in quick 
oven. 

Cream Cake.— Break two eggs into a coffee cup, fill with 
cream, one cup white sugar, one and one-half cups flour, one tea- 
-spoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda and a little lemon ; 
make it in the usual way ; very nice. 

Gold Cake. — One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup 
butter, one cup sweet milk, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one tea- 
spoonful soda, nutmeg, three cups flour, yolks of six eggs. 

Silver Cake. — One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup 
butter, one cup sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one tea- 
spoonful of cream tartar, whites of six eggs beaten to a froth and 
three cups flour. 

Mountain Cake. — Two eggs, two cups flour, one cup white 
sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, one teaspoon cream 
tartar in the flour, one-half teaspoon saleratus in the milk. 
Flavor to taste. Two teaspoons of baking powder may be used 
in place of cream tartar and saleratus. 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 63 

White Mountain Cake, — Two cups sugar, two eggs, one 
cup sweet milk, three and one-half cups flour, one- half cup but- 
ter, one teaspoonful soda, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, and one 
teaspoonful lemon. 

White Mountain Cake.— Two cups of sugar, one cup of 
butter, one cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, four large eggs, 
one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful of saleratus. 

Poor Man's Cake. — One cupful of cream, one of sugar, two 
of flour, one egg, one teaspoonful of soda and two of cream tar- 
tar. 

Bridgeport Cake. — One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, 
four eggs, three and one-half cups of flour, one cup of milk, two 
cups of currants, one-half pound of citron, one teaspoon of salera- 
tus, juice and grated rind of one lemon. 

Delicious Cake. — Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, 
three cups of flour, one cup of milk, four eggs, one teaspoonful 
of cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful of ex- 
tract of lemon. 

Buttermilk Cake.— One cup buttermilk, one cup molas- 
ses, one tablespoon shortening, spice to suit the taste, flour to 
make a thick batter. Bake slowly. 

Plain Tea Cake.— Rub together four teaspoonfuls of but- 
ter, one cup of sugar, and one well-beaten egg, and one table- 
spoonful of cream, sift two teaspoonfuls of baking powder into 
two cups of flour. Bake in small pans and eat the cakes while 
they are fresh. 

Pork Cake.— One cup each of chopped fat pork, raisins, 
sugar, molasses, hot water, one teaspoon each of cloves, cinna- 
mon, nutmeg and soda ; stir rather thick. 

Pork Cake. — One pound salt fat pork, chopped fine, one pound 
each of raisins and currants, one-fourth of citron or lemon peel, 
one cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, one teaspoon allspice, 
cinnamon and cloves, one teaspoon saleratus, one cup cold coffee 
or sour milk, six eggs, (is good without), enough flour to make 
stiff batter. Bake from two to three hours in a moderate oven. 

Easter Cake. — One cup white sugar, one and one-half cups 
butter, two eggs, two small teaspoonfuls yeast powder, two cups 



64 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

flour. Lemon and salt. It would be well to bake a little of the 
batter to see that there is sufficient flour in the cake. 

Dayton Cake. — Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, four 
eggs, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls 
of cream tartar, three cups flour. Flavor, mix cream tartar and 
soda in the flour. 

Coffee Cake. — One cup cold coffee, one cup molasses, one cup 
sugar, one cup butter, three cups flour, one egg, one-half pound 
raisins, one-fourth pound citron, one tablespoon soda, one-half 
nutmeg, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon cloves. This 
makes two loaves. Bake slowly. 

Coffee Cake. — One cup of brown sugar, one cup of molasses, 
one cup of butter, one cup of black coffee, five cups of flour, two 
eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful each ground cin- 
namon, cloves, and nutmeg, one cup of raisins. This will make 
two cakes. 

German Coffee Cake.— Two teacupfuls light dough bread, 
one teacupful of sugar, one-half teacupful of butter, one egg; 
mix well together, let it rise, then roll out upon the molding board 
place sheets in baking pans after ro ling not too thin; cover top 
of each cake with this mixture ; roll very fine one teacupful al- 
monds, add one-half cupful cream, one-half cupful of sugar; 
when cakes are half baked spread this over the top of each. Bake 
very carefully. 

Coffee Cake. — One cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, one 
cup of coffee, two-thirds of a cup of butter, two cups of chopped 
raisins two teaspoons soda, one teaspoon of all kinds of spice. 
Bake one hour in a moderate oven. This makes two loaves. 

Spice Cake. — One cupful butter, two cupfuls sugar, one- 
half cupful milk, five eggs, three teaspoonfuls baking powder, one 
teaspoonful each of cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, one-half cloves, 
flour to make quite stiff. This makes a large loaf, and will keep 
some time if wrapped in a cloth. 

Ginger Cake (Excellent.) — One cup butter, two of sugar, 
four eggs, one cup milk, two teaspoonfuls ginger, three cups flour, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Sift sugar over top before put- 
ting it in the oven. 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 65 

Tumbler Cake. — One tumbler of molasses, one of sugar, 
one of eggs, one of butter, two of raisins, four of flour, two tea- 
spoons of soda, one teaspoon of all kinds of spice. This makes 
two loaves. Bake one hour. 

Mrs. Hasting's French. Cake. — One-half cup butter, three 
eggs, two cups sugar, one cup milk, three cups flour, two tea- 
spoons cream tartar and one teaspoonful soda. Beat the yolks 
of eggs in the milk, add butter and sugar, then flour and cream 
tartar, then the whites of eggs, and last of all the soda. Use no 
flavoring. 

Watermelon Cake. — White part, two cups of white sugar, 
two-thirds cup of butter, two-thirds cup of milk, three cups of 
flour, whites of five eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoon- 
fuls of cream tartar. Red part, one cup of red sugar, one-half 
cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, two cups of flour, one cup 
of raisins, whites of five eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, and two 
teaspoonfuls of cream tartar. Stone and roll the raisins in pow- 
dered sugar, stir into the cake, and turn into the middle of the 
pan, and pour the white part over and around it. 

Watermelon Cake. — One cup of white sugar and half a cup 
of butter, beaten to a cream; whites of three eggs beaten to a 
froth, half a cup of sweet milk, half a teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in the milk; two cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of cream 
tartar in the flour; stir the whites of the eggs in last. Take a 
little more than one-third of the batter in another dish, add to it 
a teaspoonful of liquid cochineal, and a handful of seeded raisins; 
bake in a round loaf with the pink part in the centre of it. Make 
a frosting colored with green sand sugar or spinach. Flavor the 
cake with vanilla. 

Surprise Cake. — One-half cup of butter creamed, one cup 
of sugar, a few drops extract of lemon or almond, one egg well 
beaten, one-half cup sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful soda, one 
teaspoon cream tartar, two cups of flour. 

M. J. V. C.'s Spice Cake. — One cup sugar, one cup molas- 
ses, one cup sour milk, two-thirds cup shortening, three eggs, 
three large cups flour, one and one-half teaspoons soda, one of 
cloves, two of cinnamon, one of grated nutmeg, raisins or cur- 
rants, many as you please. 



66 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Spice Cake,— One cup molasses, one cup sugar, two-thirds 
cup butter, one cup sour milk, three eggs, teaspoon soda, one nut- 
meg, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, three cups of 
flour. 

Astonishment Cake. — One cup sugar, two cups flour, three 
eggs, three tablespoons cream, one teaspoon cream tartar, one- 
half teaspoon soda, spice to taste. 

Pound Cake. — Three cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup 
sweet milk, four eggs, one teaspoon cream of tartar, one and one- 
half teaspoons soda, three and one-half cups flour. 

Mrs. J. Richardson's A Cake. — One cup of sugar, half 
cup of butter, cream butter and sugar, two eggs, (beaten separate- 
ly), half cup of milk, two cups of flour, one teaspoonf ul of cream 
tartar, half a teaspoonf ul of soda. 

Good Plain Cake. — One cup of sugar, one-half cup of milk, 
one and one-half cups of flour, one egg, one Leaping teaspoonful 
of butter, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Snow Cake. — One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one- 
half cup of milk, two cups of flour, whites of three eggs, one-half 
teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful cream tartar, sifted with the 
flour; beat butter and sugar together; add whites of eggs, beaten 
to a foam; flour, milk and soda last. Flavor with nutmeg or 
lemon. Use the yolks for frosting. 

Delicate Cake. — The whites of four eggs well beaten, one 
cup of white sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of sweet 
milk, two cups of flour, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half tea- 
spoon of soda. 

Silver Cake. - One cup sugar, one-half cup of shortening 
beat to a cream, then add one-half teaspoon of soda, dissolved in 
half cup of sweet milk, two cups of sifted flour, mixed with one 
teaspoon of cream tartar, season with nutmeg and lemon or vanilla. 
Now add the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Good 
and cheap. For gold cake make the same as silver, using the 
yolks of the two eggs. 

Snow Cake. — One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, two cups 
flour, whites of four eggs, one-half cup of sweet milk, one tea- 
spoon baking powder, flavor with lemon. 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 67 

Virg^inia's Snow Cake.— Two full cups of flour, one-half 
cup of milk, whites of four eggs, one-half cup of butter, one and 
one-half cups of sugar, one -half teaspoon ful of soda, one tea- 
spoonful of cream tartar; flavor with almond or lemon. 

Lady Cake. — Three cups of flour, two cups of sugar, one 
cup of milk, one-half cup of butter, whites of four eggs; two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder; add lemon extract. 

White Cake. — One cup of butter, two cups sugar, one cup 
sweet milk, whites of five eggs, three cups of flour, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, flavor to taste. 

Angel Cake. — Whites of five eggs, one cup of sugar, small 
teaspoonf ul of cream tartar, one teaspoonful lemon. Beat this 
quantity to a stiff froth with a fork; one cup of flour, after sifted. 
Bake in a quick oven fifteen minutes. 

Sunshine Cake. — Whites of eleven eggs, yolk or six eggs, 
one and one-half cups of granulated sugar, measured after one 
sifting; one cup flour, measured after one sifting, one teaspoon 
of cream tartar, one teaspoon of extract of vanilla. Beat the 
whites to a stiff froth, and gradually beat in the sugar, beat yolks 
in a similar manner. Add tJie whites, sugar and flavor to the 
yolks, mix quickly and well, bake fifty minutes in a slow oven. 
Do not grease the pan. 

Delicate Cake. — Whites of seven eggs, two cups white sugar, 
one cup butter, one cup sweet milk, three and one-half even cups 
flour, two teaspoons baking powder, lemon extract to taste. 

Custard Cake. — Four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of water, 
one cup sugar, one and one-half cups flour, two heaping teaspoou- 
fuls of baking powder. Bake in three layers. Filling: One cup 
sweet milk, butter size of an egg, two heaping tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, set this in boiling water and let it come to a boiling point; 
stir in one tablespoonf ul of corn starch, dissolved in cold water. 
When this thickens let it cool and add flavoring. 

Cream Pie. — Cake: Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup 
of flour, one teaspoonful of yeast powder or baking powder, and 
a teaspoonful of hot water the last thing. Beat the eggs and sugar 
to a cream, then add hot water and flour. Bake in three layers 
in a hot oven. Cream for inside: One pint of milk; put it on to 



68 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

boil, beat an egg with a tablespoonful of corn starch, and stir in; 
sweeten to taste; let it boil up thick; flavor with vanilla, and 
spread on the layers of cake. 

Cream Cake. — One egg beaten separate, one cup sugar, five 
tablespoons melted butter, two-thirds cup of milk, two cups flour, 
three teaspoons baking powder, flavor with one tablespoon lemon 
Cream for cake: Put a cup and a-half sweet milk on to boil, take 
one egg, one-half cup sugar, two tablespoons flour, beat egg, 
sugar and flour well together, stir into the milk when boiling, 
flavor with a tablespoonful of lemon when done, let it boil till 
thick. Let the cake get cold before putting together, but have 
the cream hot. 

Layer Cake. — Two cups flour, two large teaspoons baking 
powder, one egg, one cup sugar, small half cup butter, three- 
fourths cup sweet milk. For filling take thick sweet cream from 
one pan of milk, beat it until it becomes thick, sweeten and flavor 
with whatever suits the taste. Spread it between the layers when 
the cake is cold. 

Jelly Roll. — Three eggs well beaten, one cup sugar, one and 
one-half cups flour, one teaspoon baking powder. 

Jelly Cake. — Four eggs, two cups sugar, one scant cup but- 
ter, one cup milk, one small teaspoon soda, two small teaspoons 
cream tarter. Beat the whites and yolks separately. Beat the 
butter and sugar very light, thin add the eggs and other ingredi- 
ents, and stir in just enough flour to stiffen, about two cups. Bake 
in jelly cake tins. When cold, spread with currant or grape jelly 
and ice. Flavor with rind of one lemon. 

Velvet Sponge Cake. — Two cups sugar, six eggs, leaving 
out the whites of three, one cup of boiling water, two and one- 
half cups flour, one teaspoon baking powder. Beat the yolks a 
little, add the sugar and beat fifteen minutes. Add the three 
beaten whites, and the cup of boiling water just before the flour. 
Flavor with a teaspoonful of lemon, and bake in three layers, 
putting them together with an icing made of the three beaten 
whites, with six dessert spoons of sugar to each egg. One tea- 
spoon of lemon. 

Sponge Cake. — One pound of sugar, one-half pound of 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 69 

flour, ten eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately. Beat yolks 
and sugar together. Flavor to taste. 

Sponge Cake. — One egg well beaten, one cup sugar, one 
tablespoon ful of butter, nearly cup cold water, oneteaspoon bak- 
ing powder, one cup flour, season to taste. 

German Sponge Cake. — One heaping cup granulated sugar, 
seven eggs, beat together one-half hour, stir in heaping cup flour, 
slowly, flavor to taste. 

Sponge Cake. — Two cups sugar, two cups flour, four eggs, 
two heaping teaspoons baking powder, and last stir in two-thirds 
cup boiling water and bake. 

Sponge Cake. — Four eggs, one coffee cup white sugar, one 
coffee cup sifted flour, a little rose prepared as follows: Beat the 
whites to a very stiff froth with a little salt, cover and set in a 
cool place, while you beat the yolk to a cream, then add sugar 
and rose and beat to a froth, then whites, beat again, then flour, 
beating all thoroughly; baka in pound-cake tins, twelve in a set 
in a quick oven, but do not burn; very nice. 

Sponge Cake. — One cup of sugar, one cup of flour, one- 
quarter cup of cold w^ater, three eggs, beat yolks and sugar to- 
gether, then put in water and stir in flour lightly; beat the whites 
to a stiff froth and stir in. Do not beat anything but yolks and 
sugar. 

Sponge Cake. — Beat the whites of four eggs fifteen minutes; 
stir in one cup granulated sugar thoroughly; stir into this the 
beaten yolks lightly; one cup of flour after it is sifted; one tea- 
spoon extract lemon. 

Cream Cakes.— One-half cup butter, one cup cold water 
boiled together, add a cup flour, simmer a short time; when partly 
cool add three eggs, one at a time, without beating; drop on a 
pan a dessertspoonful. Bake thoroughly in a very hot oven, 
when cool fill with cream made as follows: Two cups milk, three- 
quarter cup sugar, two eggs, two small tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Flavor with lemon. 

Cream Puflfs. — One cup boiling water, one-half cup butter, 
boil together, and while boiling stir in one cup dry sifted flour. 
Take from stove and stir to a paste; when cool break in three eggs, 



70 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

unbeaten, and stir five minutes; then drop in spoonfuls on a but- 
tered tin, and bake in a quick oven twenty-five minutes. The 
puffs must not touch each other in the pan. When the puffs are 
cold, fill with one-half pint of sweet cream, whipped to a stiff 
froth, sweetened and flavored to taste. 

Berry Bake.— One pint of flour before sifted, one cup sugar, 
one cup milk, one large spoonful butter, two eggs, one pint blue- 
berries, one teaspoonful saleratus, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 
Beat the sugar and butter together and then the two eggs; stir 
the milk with them; then the flour with the saleratus and cream 
tartar thoroughly mixed; turn into shallow pans about an inch 
deep; bake in a quick oven; to be eaten warm. 

Blueberry Cake. — One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
three eggs, one cup of milk, four cups flour, one and one-half tea- 
spoonfuls cream tartar, one teaspoonful soda; rub one pint of ber- 
ries in the flour; bake in two tins. 

Berry Cake.— One cup sugar, two-third cup butter, two 
eggs, one cup milk, one-half teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful 
cream tartar, enough flour to hold berries, or as stiff as ordinary 
cake. 

Feather Cake. — Take three cups sifted flour, one and one- 
half cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, two teaspoons baking pow- 
der and a little essence of lemon, one egg, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter ; beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the milk, 
the egg well beaten and the essence; mix with the above two cups 
of flour and lastly add the third into which the baking powder 
has been stirred, bake in jelly tins in quick oven, putting icing 
between and on top. 

Feather Cake. — Beat to a cream a-half cup of butter; add 
two of sugar and beat well; add one cup of milk with one tea- 
spoonful of soda in it; beat together; then add one cup of sifted 
flour with two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar rubbed in it, add next 
the beaten yolks of three eggs; beat the whites until stiff; add 
them and then two more cups of flour; beat well between each 
successive addition; butter two medium-sized tins, put in the bat- 
ter and bake for a-half hour in a moderate oven. 

Feather Cake. — Take two cups sugar, one- half cup butter, 
two-thirds of a cup milk, three cups flour, three eggs, and three 



THE HELIABLE COOK BOOK. 71 

teaspoonfuls Horsford's baking powder. Flavor with lemon or 
vanilla. This is a very nice plain cake. 

Feather Cake. — One cup of white sugar, one teaspoonful 
of butter, one egg, two-thirds cup of milk, two even cups of flour, 
two even teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one of soda, flavor with 
lemon. It is delicious. 

Hurry Cake. — One cup sugar, one egg, half a cup cold 
water, butter size of an egg, and two teaspoons baking powder 
and one cup flour sifted together. Flavor to taste, nice for tea. 

Tea Cake. — One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups 
of flour, four eggs, (whites and yolks beaten separately), one cup 
sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, flavor with lemon. Mix the in. 
gredients thoroughly together, and add whites of eggs, w^hich 
have been previously beaten to a stiff froth. 

Cream Sponge Cake. — Beat together a cupful of sugar and 
the yolks of three eggs, add a-half teaspoonful of soda, a teaspoon 
cream tartar, a cupful of flour and the whites of the eggs; bake 
in three layers and put between them the following: One egg, a- 
half cupful of cream, a cupful of sugar, a piece of butter the size 
of a walnut, boil until like cream, when cold season to taste. 

Swiss Cake. — One quarter cup of butter, one and a-half 
cups of sugar, two and a-half cups of flour, one cup of sweet 
milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, half teaspoonful 
of soda; stir the butter and sugar to a cream, and add the eggs 
last well beaten; flavor with lemon. 

Cottage Cake. — One cup sugar, one tablespoon of butter, 
two eggs, one-half cup milk, one teaspoon cream tartar, one and 
one-half cups of flour, nutmeg or lemon; this is good baked in 
three shallow tins, with layers of chocolate or cocoanut and 
cream between the layers. 

Eggless Cake. — One cup sugar, three tablespoonfuls but- 
ter, one cup sweet milk, two cups flour and two spoons baking 
powder; a very good cake when eggs are scarce and high. 



PART VII. 
Pies, etc. 

Lemon Tarts.— Juice and rind of one lemon, one cup sugar 
and yolk of an egg, beat well and add one cup water in which is 
stirred a dessertspoonful corn-starch. Put over the fire and Jet 
come to a boil. Have some nice pastry shells and fill when cold. 
Frost with the white of the egg and sugar. 

Brambles. -One cup raisins chopped fine, one cracker pound- 
ed fine, one lemon, grate the rind, chop the pulp; three-fourths 
cup of sugar, butter size of an egg. For the crust, two and one- 
half cups of flour, one egg, one-half cup lard. Roll thin, cut 
with a pint pail cover, wet the edges and put on a teaspoonful of 
the above mixture, fold over one-half and press the edges to. 
gether, prick holes in the top. 

Lemon Raisin Pie. — One cup chopped raisins, one lemon, 
one cup cold water, onetablespoonful flour, one cup sugar. Bake 
with upper and under crust. 

Cream Pie.— Stir smooth two large teaspoonfuls of flour in 
ft cup of new milk, add another cupful of very rich cream, three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, a dash of salt and little flavoring. Bake 
with one crust. 

Boiled Cider Pie. — One egg, one cup dry sugar, two table- 
spoons corn-starch, beaten together; half cup boiled cider, two- 
thirds cup cold water, one teaspoon extract lemon— this can be 
baked with two crusts, like.a custard pie. 

Raisin Pie. — One cup of raisins, stoned and chopped fine, 
one cup of hot water, juice of one lemon and grated rind, one 
cup of rolled crackers. Boil the raisins in just water enough to 
soften, add a pinch of salt and a cup of sugar, or half a cup sugar 
and half a cup of molasses. 

Lemon Pie. — Put two large cups water in a basin, set it 
over a kettle of water on the stove. Take a nice lemon, grate it 
all, remove seeds and add the yolks of three eggs, two cups brown 
sugar, butter size of thumb, three tablespoons corn-starch mixed 
smooth in a little water, stir until thickened, and set away to 



TfiE KELIASLE COOK BOOK. 7^ 

cool. Now make a rich crust, put upon two pie tins and bake. 
Then fill with mixture: Beat whites of three e^i^gs stiff and three 
tablespoons fine sugar, spread equally on two pies and brown 
slightly in oven. 

Vinegar Pie. — One egg, one heaping tablespoon flour, one 
teacup sugar, beat all well together; add one tablespoon sharp 
vinegar, one teacup cold water, flavor with nutmeg; bake in two 
crusts. 

Cnimb Pie. — Soak in a little warm water, one teacup bread 
crumbs for half an hour; three tablespoons sugar, one-half table- 
spoon butter, one-half cup of cold water, a little vinegar, and nut- 
meg to suit the taste; bake with two crusts. 

Mock Mince Pies. — One large cup powdered cracker, two 
cups sugar, one cup molasses, one cup vinegar, one cup chopped 
raisins, one cup warm water, one-half cup of butter, one teaspoon 
each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice, nutmeg, a little salt, a few 
drops of essence of lemon, two eggs. This will make two pies. 

Lemon Custard. — Six eggs, beaten separately; one and one- 
half cups sugar, tablespoonful of butter, juice (only) of one large 
or two small lemons, mix the whites in last, bake immediately. 
For two custards, on putf paste. 

Lemon Pie. — Two and one-half tablespoons of corn-starch, 
mix thoroughly in a little cold water, add a pint and one-half of 
boiling water, while this is partially cooling, prepare the juice 
and grated rind of two and one-half lemons, one and one-third 
cups of sugar and yolks of four eggs, mix well then pour in the 
corn- starch; line two pie-dishes with pastrj^ fill them with the 
mixture and bake half an hour, then beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth, add two spoonfuls of white sugar, spread over the 
pies and return to the oven to brown. 

Potato Custard. — One quart of well-mashed sweet potatoes, 
three-fourths of a pound of butter, one and one-fourths pounds of 
sugar, six eggs, well beaten; flavor with lemon. Bake on puff 
paste. 

Lemon Pie. — Put the yolks of three eggs in a bowl, add one 
teacupf ul of sugar, one teaspoon of butter, grate in the yellow 
rind of one lemon, (be careful to keep seeds out) squeeze out all 



74 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

the juice of lemon throwing away the white peel, add two table- 
spoons of flour and one half cup of milk or water, beat well, then 
put a rich crust on pie tin, then pour in this mixture and bake, 
when done beat the whites of three eggs stiff, with two table- 
spoons of sugar, put over top, brown slightly. 

Vinegar Pie. — One cup of sugar, one cup of vinegar, (not 
too sour) and boil; then add the yolk of one egg and four table- 
spoonfuls of flour to the above. Then fill in a crust already baked. 
For frosting use the white of an egg and two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, and return to the oven and brown lightly. 

Imitation of a Lemon Pie.— One cup of choppeil rhubarb, 
scalded, one and one-half cups of sugar, yolks of three eggs, fla- 
vor with lemon, bake with one crust; beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth with two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, spread 
over the pie; then brown. 

Cream Pie — One pint of sweet milk, white of one egg and 
yolks of three; two tablespoonfuls of sugar, two of corn-starch; 
beat all together; let it cool and flavor. Make a rich crust and 
bake separate and fill; beat the whites of two eggs to a froth, 
spread over the top and set in the oven to brown. 

Grandma's Fried Pie.— One cup sour milk, a very little 
shortening, one teaspoonful soda, and a little salt. Mix with flour 
to the consistency of biscuit dough. Roll into round cakes and 
fry in hot lard, turning over soon as browned. Have your ber- 
ries sugared and mashed. Pui together same as shortcake. This 
is excellent with cranberries and splendid with any kind of fruit. 
This will make four layers. 

Prune Pie. — three cups prunes, one cup sugar, one teaspoon- 
ful extract of lemon, two tablespoonfuls vinegar. Stew, seed 
and mash prunes; add sugar, lemon, and vinegar. Have mixture 
rather juicy and bake with two crusts. 

Sweet Apple Pie. — One and one-half large sweet apples, 
grated, one egg, one cup of sweet cream, milk to fill pie plate. 
Bake in one crust. 

Banana Custard Pie. — Take two bananas, rub through a 
colander and have them perfectly smooth; mix the bananas with 
one pint of milk, two tablespoons of sugar, two eggs and a little 
salt. Bake in a medium sized plate in a slow oven. 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 75 

Mince Pie. — One quart meat, one pint suet, two quarts of 
apples, one pint of sugar, one quart of raisins, one pint of molas- 
ses, boiled, two large spoonfuls cinnamon, one spoonful cloves, 
two nutmeg, teaspoonf ul of allspice, pint boiled cider, butter and 
salt to taste. 

Lemon Meringue Pie.— One tablespoon of corn-starch, one 
cupful of boiling water, one cupful of sugar, piece of butter size 
of nutmeg, one lemon, two eggs. AYet the starch with cold 
water, and rub smooth. Stir it into the cup of boiling water on 
the stove. Let it boil up once, and then pour upon the butter 
and sugar. Stir well. When cold add the juice and grated rind 
of the lemon. Beat the eggs, reserving the white of one, and 
mix them in. Pour into a pie plate, lined with crust. Bake in a 
moderate oven for twenty minutes. "When cool cover with a 
frosting made of white of egg reserved, and brown delicately. 

Date Pie. — One pound of dates, one quart of milk and three 
eggs. Season the same as for squash pie. It needs no sweeten- 
ing. Put the dates in the milk and heat until they are soft 
enough to sift. This makes t\^ o good-sized pies. Use one crust, 
the same as for squash. 

Rhubarb Pie. — One and one-half teacups rhubarb cut fine, 
pour boiling water over and turn off; one-half teacup raisins cut 
in two, three-fourths teacup granulated sugar. Mix all together, 
sprinkle with flour, beat one egg and spread over top, put on up- 
per crust and bake. 

Mock Mince Pies with. Bread Crumbs. — Bread crumbs, 
sugar, molasses, vinegar, boiling water, raisins and currants, each 
one cup; butter, one-half cup; spices to taste. 

Lemon Pie. — One lemon, yolks of three eggs, one cup sugar, 
two tablespoons flour, one pint sweet milk, save whites for frost- 
ing. 

Molasses Pie. — One pint molasses, one-half pint thick milk, 
one teacup lard or butter, three tablespoons flour, half teaspoon 
soda, one tablespoon of cinnamon. Will make four or five pies. 
Cover with strips. 

Virginia Lemon Pie. — Squeeze the juice of two lemons on 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar, add one tablespoonful of butter. 



76 The reliable cook book. 

two eggs, and beat all together thoroughly, then add one small 
glass of milk and one teaspoonful of flour, beat the flour smooth- 
ly with a little of the milk; pour this in a crust being just sufficient 
for one pie. Bake about twenty minutes. 

Sugar Pie. — Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half 
cup cream, three eggs, flavor with lemon extract, bake. 

Lemcn Pie. — One lemon, one egg, one cup of sugar, bake 
with two crusts. 

Buttermilk Pie. — Buttermilk just churned one and one-half 
cups, one cup of sugar, one teaspoon of melted butter, one table- 
spoon of flour, one egg, mix the flour in a little of the buttermilk. 
Bake in a quick oven, flavor with nutmeg. 

Mock Mince Pie,— One cup bread crumbs, one cup molasses, 
one cup sugar, one cup vinegar, one cup water, one-half cup but- 
ter, raisins and spices to taste. This makes three pies. 

Cream Pie. — Two eggs, three-quarters of a cup of sugar, 
one cup of flour, one-quarter of a cup of cold water, one heaping 
teaspoonful of baking powder, beat the eggs light, add sugar, 
water, flour and baking powder, sift flour before measuring; bake 
in one tin, split and put in cream. Cream: — One-half pint of 
milk, one-half cup of sugar, one-fourth cup of flour, one-egg, 
pinch of salt, one teaspoon of vanilla; break egg on flour and 
sugar and mash, then stir into boiling milk until thick. 



PART VIII. 

Doughnuts, Cookies, Gringerbreads, etc. 

Doughnuts. — One cup of sugar, two eggs, one cup of milk, 
one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonf uls cream tartar, one-half 
teaspoonful of butter. Sift the soda and cream tartar into the 
flour. 

Plain Doughnuts. — One cup sugar, one egg, one pint sweet 
milk, two teaspoons cream tartar, one of soda, three tablespoons 
of sour cream. 

Doughnuts. — One quart of flour, one cup of sugar, one cup 
sour milk, one egg, one teaspoonful of saleratus, and a pinch of 
salt, fry in hot lard. 

Fannie's Doughnuts.— One cupful of sugar, two eggs, 
beaten thoroughly, a cupful of sweet milk, two teaspoonf uls of 
cream tartar sifted through the flour, a teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in the milk, a teaspoonful of salt, a little nutmeg and cin- 
namon; flour enough just to handle, roll out, cut with a dough- 
nut cutter, and fry a nice brown in hot lard. 

Delicious Doughnuts. -Take one quart of flour, one cup 
of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, one egg, a pinch of salt, one 
teaspoonful of saleratus, and two of cream tartar. Fry in lard. 

Crullers.— One egg, one cup of sugar, one cup of sour 
cream, one small teaspoonful of soda, one small pinch of salt, 
spice with nutmeg to suit the taste, mix soft, roll nearly an inch 
thick, cut out with a cake cutter that has a hole in the centre. 
Fry in hot lard. 

Excellent Doughnuts.— Three well beaten eggs, one teacup 
sugar, one teacup cream, nutmeg as desired, one teacup new milk, 
one teaspoonful salt and one of soda in the new milk, flour to 
mould soft. 

Cocoanut Jumbles.— One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, 
two eggs, one large cup grated cocoanut. Use flour enough to 
make a dough that can be rolled. Bake the cakes in a quick 
oven. 



78 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Jumbles. — One-half cup of butter, oue cup of sugar, two 
eggs, and one-fourth teaspoon ful of soda, roll thin and sprinkle 
sugar over them. 

Rich. Jumbles, — Oue pound butter, one pound sugar, one 
and one-half pounds flour, four eggs, roll in powdered sugar and 
bake. These are good to keep a long time and be nice. 

Drop Cakes. — Four eggs, well beaten separately, one cup of 
sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup of corn-starch, two tea- 
spoons of baking powder, bake in tins same as the above recipe, 
place a large raisin in the top of each one after they are put in 
the tins. 

Almond Cakes. — Into one pound of flour, rub six ounces of 
butter, add salt, one-half pound sugar, ten drops of essence of 
almond. Whisk three eggs and mix with the ingredients into a 
stiff paste. Roll and cut into cakes with a tin cutter and bake 
slowly. Keep in a tin canister. 

Fruit Cookies. — One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup 
butter, two eggs, one and one-half cups chopped raisins, one- 
quarter cup currants, one-half teaspoon cinnamon, cloves and 
allspice, one teaspoon nutmeg, one-half cup milk, flour to roll. 
Cut in thin cakes. 

Raisin Cookies. — Two eggs, one cupful of sugar, one half 
cupful of butter, one cupful chopped raisins, one-half cupful of 
milk, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one half teaspoonful of soda, 
spice. 

Fruit Cookies — Two cups of sugar, one and one-third cups 
of butter, three eggs, one cup of chopped raisins, one cup of cur- 
rants, oue teaspoonful each of cloves, cassia and soda, one nut- 
meg, flour to make quite stiff. 

Cocoanut Cookies.— One cupful of butter, two cupfuls 
of sugar, two cupsfuls prepared or grated cocoanut, two eggs, 
flour enough to make a stiff batter, and one teaspoonful of soda; 
drop on buttered paper in tin pans. 

Cinnamon Drops. — One egg, one cup of sugar, one cup of 
molasses, one-half cup of butter, one cup of water, two teaspoon- 
f uls of cinnamon, heaping teaspoonful of soda, five small cups of 
flour, bake in "pattypans." 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 79 

Egg-less Cookies. — Two cups sugar, one of sweet milk, oue 
teaspoon soda, oue cup of butter or shortening. This recipe will 
be found convenient when eggs and cream are scarce. Season 
with nutmeg. 

Cream Cookies. — One cup rich sour cream, one tablespoon - 
ful butter, one cup sugar, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half tea- 
spoonful soda, flavor with nutmeg. 

Cream Cookies. — One cup of sour milk, one of sugar, one- 
third teaspoon of soda, a pinch of salt, nutmeg, flour, stir the 
cream, sugar, soda together, and then the flour, make soft, bake 
quickly. 

Cookies. — One teacup sugar, one egg, one-half cup butter, 
nutmeg for spice, one even teaspoon of soda dissolved in two 
spoonfuls of sweet milk, flour to mould. 

Farmer's Cookies. — One cup white sugar, one egg, one cup 
good, thick, sour cream, one-half teaspoonful salt, one teaspoon 
saleratus, mix with dough quite stiff. 

Sugar Cookies. — Two cups of sugar, oue cup of butter, two 
eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonf uls of cream tartar, 
one- fourth of a cup of water, one-half of a grated nutmeg, and 
flour to thicken. 

Cookies. — Two cups sugar, one cup butter mixed with sugar 
with the hand thoroughly, two tablespoonfuls of milk, three tea- 
spoons baking powder, flavor with lemon or nutmeg, flour to 
roll out. 

Cookies. — Two eggs, three cups white sugar, rolled fine and 
well beaten together, two cups lard, one cup sour milk, two tea- 
spoonfuls soda. 

Cookies. — Two eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one-half teaspoonful soda dissolved in a teaspoonful of milk, one 
teaspoonful cream tartar and flour to roll out. Flavor to taste. 

Cookies. — Two cups sugar, one cup butter, or meat fryings, 
one cup buttermilk, teaspoonful soda, cream the butter and sugar 
together first, then add milk, soda and flour to roll, do not knead 
but mix thoroughly before taking on the board, flavor to taste, 
use nutmeg, two teaspoons of lemon extract, roll thin, bake in 
quick oven. 



80 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Hickory Nut Cake. — One egg, one half cup flour, on© cup 
sugar, one cup nuts sliced fine, drop on buttered tins two inches 
apart. 

Soft Gingerbread.— One cup of molasses, half cup of milk, 
one-third cup butter, one teaspoon ginger, three and one-half cups 
flour, one teaspoon soda dissolved in the milk. 

Soft Gingerbread. — One cup molasses, one cup boiling hot 
water, one tablespoon lard, one of ginger, one teaspoon soda, mix 
very soft, and add one egg. Bake quick. 

Soft Gingerbread. — One cup of molasses, one cup of waier, 
two and one-half cups flour, one teaspoon soda in water, three 
tablespoons melted butter, ginger and allspice to taste. 

Hard Gingerbread.— One cup butter, two of sugar, one egg^ 
one cup milk, teaspoonf ul ginger, two of baking powder, flour to 
roll out. 

Drop Ginger Cookies. — One cup molasses, one cup sour 
cream, one half cup sugar, one egg, one teaspoon soda, one tea- 
spoon ginger, one teaspoon cinnamon. 

Ginger Cookies. — Two eggs, one cup molasses, one-half 
cup sugar, one cup butter or lard, two teaspoonfuls soda, dis- 
solved in one-fourth cup of cold water, one teaspoonful ginger, 
flour to mix soft. 

Ginger Cookies. — One cup of sugar, two cups of molases, 
one cup of lard, two-thirds cup of sour milk, two eggs, one tea- 
spoon ginger, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, one 
teaspoon soda, one tablespoon salt, flour enough to roll. 

Excellent Ginger Snaps. — Two cups of molasses, one cup 
lard, one teaspoon soda, salt and ginger, flour to stiffen, roll thin 
and bake quickly. 

Ginger Snaps. — One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one scant 
cup lard, one egg, tablespoon ginger, one teaspoon soda. 

Ginger Snaps, — Two-thirds cup butter, one cup molasses, 
one cup sugar, one heaping teaspoonful ginger, one [of cloves, 
one of soda, dissolved in hot water. Flour to mould. Bake 
quick. 

Ginger Snaps. — One cup molasses, heated, one-half cup 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK, 81 

sugar, one egg, one tablespoon ginger, one tablespoon soda, three 
tablespoons vinegar, one-half teaspoon salt. 

Sallie's Ginger Snaps. — One coffee cup each of lard, molas- 
ses and sugar, three teaspoonfiils of vinegar, six teaspoonfuls of 
water, one heaping teaspoonf ul of soda, one teaspoonf ul of ginger 
or cinnamon, flour to roll easily, lloll very thin. 

Ginger Snaps. — One pint molasses, one cup shortening, 
(drippings, lard or butter, if plenty,) one teaspoonfulof soda, one 
teaspoon ful of ginger. Boil up thoroughly, mix stiff while warm, 
not hot, roll thin and bake quickly. 

Springfield Rumville Snaps. — Three-fourths cupful lax^d, 
three-fourths cupful butter, one cupful sugar, one pint molasses, 
one teaspoonf ul soda, one tablcspoonful ginger, one tablespoonful 
spice, then enough flour to roll soft and very thin in rings. 

Ginger Drops. — One cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, 
one-half cup butter, two eggs, one teaspoon cinnamon, one tea- 
spoon ginger, two teaspoons soda, stir stiff. This makes about 
forty drops. 

Ginger Snaps. — One cup molasses, one-half cup sugar, one 
cup butter, and lard mixed, one teaspoon soda, dissolved in water, 
one teaspoon ginger and cinnamon each, boil all together and 
when cool, stir in flour enough to mould and bake. 



PART IX. 

Frostings and Sauces- 

' Berry Sauce (for Puddings.) — One and one-half teaspoon- 
fuls corn-starch, wet in a little cold water. Pour over it one 
pint of boilins: water, add one cup of sugar, and butter size of a 
nutmeg, boil till it begins to thicken then pour over a pint of 
chopped berries. 

Pudding Sauce. — Beat the white of one egg stiff, the yolk 
to a cream; mix with one cup of sugar, add boiling water till the 
sauce is as thick as custard ; flavor with lemon. 

Excellent Pudding Sauce. — Beat the white of an egg to a 
stiff froth, the yolk to a cream, and mixing it with one cup of 
pulverized sugar. Add boiling water till the sauce is of the con- 
sistency of boiled custard. Flavor with lemon, rosewater or van- 
illa, or with any other extract. 

Sauce for Pudding. — A half-cup of sugar rolled till fine and 
beaten to a cream with half a cup of butter is very good; with 
vanilla, it is better. Plain cream, taken from sweet milk, is ex- 
cellent. 

Pudding Sauce. — Delicious pudding sauce is made of mix- 
ed fruits, chopped fine and cooked until soft. Thin properly with 
water and sweeten, and lastly add a well-beaten egg. Serve hot 
or cold. 

"Wine Sauce.— Beat a cupful of butter till it is creamy; then 
gradually beat into it two cupf uls of powdered sugar, and when 
this is done, add a gill of sherry by spoonfuls. Beat the mixture 
until it becomes a smooth, light froth; then set the bowl in a 
basin of boiling water and stir for a minute and a-half . Have the 
sauce bowl or boat heated by means of boiling water. When the 
sauce is finished, empty the bowl of water and put the sauce into 
it. Grate a part of a nutmeg over the sauce and send to the table 
hot. 

Pudding Sauce. — A tablespoonful of corn-starch wet up 
evenly in a I'ttle cold water and stirred into a pint of boiling water 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. .83 

and a-half cup of molasses is nice. A different flavor can be given 
by adding the juice of a lemon or a tablespoouful of vinegar. 

A Rich Sauce. — Rub one small cup of butter, and two of 
sugar, to a cream, then stir in three eggs, beaten very light, and 
twotablespoonfuls of boiling water, and flavor with lemon or wine. 

Pudding Sauce for Steam Pudding. — One cui)ful of 
brown sugar, one-half cupful butter, or if less is used, a pinch of 
salt, one dessertspoonful corn-starch, one-half teaspoonful cinna- 
mon, less of cloves and a little nutmeg, stir all together thorough- 
ly, pour on boiling water, stirring all the time until the sauce is 
as thick as desired. 

Pudding Sauce.— One-half cup butter, two-thirds cup sugar, 
three spoons flour thoroughly mixed, add slowly, so as not to get 
il lumpy, enough boiling water to make it the thickness of good 
thick cream. Boil long enough to cook flour, add nutmeg and a 
spoonful of vinegar. 

Recipe for Sauce. — One cup of water, one cup of white 
sugar, one tablespoouful of butter, one tablespoouful of vinegar, 
one tablespoouful of flour, a little salt, flavor with essence of 
lemon. Mix all well together except water; when beaten pour 
the water on boiling hot, and let the whole come to a boil. 

Sauce for Pudding. — One cup butter, two cups sugar beat- 
en to a cream, two eggs well beaten, put in a bowl and steam 
one hour. Just before using add one cup boiling water, one cup 
raspberry vinegar. 

Salad Dressing. — One egg, two tablespoons sugar, one-half 
cup vinegar, butter size of half an egg, one teaspoon mustard, 
one-half teaspoon salt. Mix mustard, salt, sugar and vinegar, 
and pour on beaten egg, simmer all ten minutes, stirring all the 
time. 

Salad Dressing. — One egg beaten, one-half teaspoonful 
each of mustard, salt and sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful of pep- 
per, one-half a cup of vinegar, two tablespoonf uls of cream or 
butter. Set over boiling water to thicken. 

Mayonnaise Sauce. — Two eggs, one-half teaspoon raw 
mustard, scarcely blended with vinegar. Mix with oil, drop by 



84 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

drop, thoroughly. Use plenty of oil, till the mixture is hard 
enough to be cut with a knife. Add yolks of two eggs stiffly 
beaten. Mix all together, and add half a teaspoon of salt, and 
the juice of one lemon. Place on ice till ready for use. 

"Egg Sauce. — Stir one ounce of butter and flour together 
over the fire till they bubble. Gradually add half a pint of boil- 
ing water, stirring the sauce with an egg-whip until smoo h. 
Season with pepper, salt and a little chopped parsley, and juice 
of one lemon. Chop the yolk of hard boiled egg and put in the 
sauce just before using. 

Mint Sauce is an improvement to a roast of mutton or lamb. 
Take the youngest leaves of the spearmint, cut away all the 
stems, chop very fine, put a teaspoonf ul of sugar to two or three 
of the mint, and use sufficient vinegar to be thoroughly flavored 
by the mint. Make at least an hour before it is to be used. 

Caper Sauce. — Mix together two large tablespoonfuls of 
butter and one tablespoouful of flour; put into a saucepan with 
two cups water; set on the fire, cook till it thickens, then add 
capers to taste and salt. Take from the fire and add the yolk of 
an egg beaten. This sauce can be varied by using chopped cu- 
cumbers, hard boiled eggs or mushrooms. 

Onion Sauce. — Boil one cup of milk, add a small piece of 
butter and a tablespoonf ul of flour, salt and pepper. When thick 
pour over three onions boiled and chopped fine. 

French. Dressing.— Two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, one 
tablespoouful vinegar, saltspoouful of red pepper and half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, all mixed together thoroughly. 

Chocolate Icing. — Boil one and a-half cupfuls of sugar 
with three tableapoonfuls of cream, and a half a cake of choco- 
late, grated, then pour this over the beaten whiles of two 
eggs, add a teaspoonf ul of vanilla, beat until it thickens. 

Caramel Frosting^. — Boil two minutes one cup sugar, one- 
half cup milk, flavor and beat to a cream. When nearly cool, 
spread over the cake, then spread on a layer of melted chocolate. 

Clieap Frosting. — One even teaspoonf ul of gelatine, one 
even teaspoonful of cold water, soak one-half hour, add one 
tablespoouful of hot water, and one cup of pulverized sugar. 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 85 

Cooked Icing, — One pound of granulated sugar, one-half 
tumbler of water, whites of three eggs. Boil sugar and water 
together, until it drops like candy from spoon, then pour hot over 
the eggs, beating rapidly. 

Icing-. — Four tablespoon fuls of water, juice of half a lemon, 
sufficient sugar to make a stiff paste. Spread all over the cake. 
It will harden in a short time. 

To Color Icing. — Lemon juice will whiten frosting, while 
cranberry or strawberry will color it pink, and the grated rind of 
an orange strained through a cloth will color it yellow. 

Chocolate Frosting. — Beat the whites of three eggs to a 
stiff froth, gradually add three cups of white sugar, beat very 
hard and add grated chocolate to suit taste. This is excellent for 
layer cake. 

White Frosting. — The white of one egg, and five table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Break the whites of two eggs into 
a bowl, without beating, and one tablespoonful of corn-starch, 
and pulverized sugar enough to make it quite stiff, it will dry in 
a few minutes. 

Chocolate Frosting. — One cup white sugar, enough water 
to moisten good, boil till a drop hangs like a thread from the 
spoon and snaps. Have ready one egg, beaten stiff; pour boiling 
syrup over egg and stir in grated chocolate about two tablespoon- 
fuls; put on the top of cake while hot. 

Fig Paste for Cake Filling. — Wash and chop fine one 
pound figs, then put with a cup each of sugar and water and cook 
till you have a thick paste; spread between the layers of cake 

Caramel Frosting. — One cup brown sugar, one square 
Baker's chocolate, scraped fine, one tablespoonful water. Simmer 
twenty minutes; spread on cake while hot. 

Milk Frosting. — One cup white sugar, five tablespoons of 
sweet milk; boil together four or five minutes; stir hard until 
cold and spread on cold cake. 

Chocolate Icing. — One cup sugar, yolk of four eggs, one- 
fourth cup milk, one-third cake chocolate. Mix all together and 
boil; when cool add a teaspoon vanilla and spread between layers. 



PART X. 

Pickles, Preserves and Confectionery. 

"Winter Chili Sauce.— One quart can tomatoes, six large 
onions; cook the onions until tender, pour in tomatoes, three 
teaspoonsful salt, two of cloves .and allspice, and pepper, four 
cups vinegar, one and one-half cups sugar. 

Conserves Peaches. — Weigh the fruit to one pound, use 
one-fourth pound sugar, steam fruit one-fourth hour until you 
can pierce with a straw, the fruit makes its own juice, put on 
dishes, cover with syrup, set in sun to dry, in a day or two turn 
each piece over, when half dry put on clean dishes with the rest 
of syrup and roll in granulated sugar and put in glass jars 

Damsons.— Put the fruit in stone jars, set in hot water to 
steam; when soft and pulpy pap through a sieve. To one pound 
of fruit use one fourth pound sugar. Stew till thick, pour on 
dishes not too thick; when nearly dry cut in squares, roll in gran- 
ulated sugar. 

Cherries.— Stone the fruit and scald, using one-fourth pound 
sugar to one pound fruit; then proceed as in peaches, 

Raspberries. — Wash, vv^eigh, stew as damsons, put on dishes 
when nearly dry, cut in squares as for damsons. Any or all fruit 
done in this way equals the French conserves. 

Blackberry Jelly. — Boil the berries till soft, and strain. 
To one pint of juice add one pint of granulated sugar, and boil 
together fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Preserved Watermelon Rind or Citron. — Having pared 
and cut the rind, to each pound allow one and one half pounds 
white sugar, and one pint of water. Heat the syrup sufficiently 
to strain easily, return to kettle and put in the rind, after having 
been in salt water, that will bear an egg, for three days, then in 
fresh water all night to remove the salt taste. Boil rapidly till 
nearly done, then more mcderately till clear entirely through. If 
the rind is boiled in water without the sugar, it will not be clear 
and sweet all through. No need of alum water, ginger tea, vines, 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 87 

leaves, etc., only use lemon, vanilla, strawberry, any one flavor- 
ing you like best. 

Currant Jelly.— Put your fruit into a stone jar, which must 
be placed in a pot of hot water, and keep it boiling until your 
currants are easily squeezed. This method gives less trouble and 
obtains more j nice. Measure one pound of sugar to every pint 
of juice and put upon the fire; let it boil for twenty minutes. 
Don't paste up while hot. 

Prune Jelly.— Stew two quarts of prunes slowly until very 
soft. Strain through a colander and save the prunes. Put the 
juice in a kettle and add half a package of gelatine which has 
been dissolved in cold water and a large cupful of sugar, boil fast 
twenty minutes and pour in tumblers. The prunes can be used 
for sauce, by adding a cup of sugar and a little water, and cook- 
ing as usual. 

Stewed Pears.— Put them, well mashed, into a tight vessel, 
with sugar enough to sweeten, and water to keep from burning, 
a little stick cinnamon, or two or three whole cloves. Stew a long 
time. 

Baked Pears.— Prepare as for stewing, but add no spice; 
set your dish in the oven and let it bake till the pears are dark and 
in a rich syrup. 

Peaches. — Soft peaches preserved with the skins on are 
splendid. Open any freestone peaches you may happen to have, 
weigh them, and allow nearly one pound of white sugar to each 
pound of fruit. Place in a dish a layer of peaches and one of 
sugar, alternately, let stand over night, and in the morning boil 
in their own sj'-rup till done. Peaches done in this way keep 
nicely. 

Pumpkin Preserves.— Take a good round ripe pumpkin, 
peel and cut in inch squares, le<" stand over night in a weak solu- 
tion of alum water, and in the morning spread on platters, set in 
the sun or in the oven for two hours, take three-fourths pound of 
sugar to a pound of pumpkin, one cup raisins and a lemon, cook 
till pumpkin is done, then skim out and cook juice until thick 
enough to keep as any other preserves, if made right can't be told 
from citron. 



88 THE RELIABLE COOlC BOOIC. 

Gooseberry Jam. — To every pound of gooseberries add a 
pound of sugar. Bruise the gooseberries well in a mortar or ket 
tie and boil them well. When cold put the jam in pots and seal 
over. 

Tomato Honey. — Take six peach tree leaves to each pound 
of tomatoes, add a little water, and boil tender, strain off and 
weigh the juice, add one pound of sugar and one-half lemon to 
each pound of juice. Boil till thick as good molasses and put 
away for use. Does not have to be sealed. 

Grape Jelly. — Pick the grapes, either green or ripe, from 
the stem; wash and drain them and mash them with a spoon. 
Put them in your preserving kettle and cover them with a plate. 
Boil ten minutes, then pour them into your jelly bag and squeeze 
out the juice. Put back into the kettle, with one pound of sugar 
to every pint of juice, and boil again for twenty minutes, skim- 
ming well. 

Wild Grape Jelly. — Stew wild grapes until soft, then press 
through a flannel jelly bag. Boil juice twenty -five minutes, if a 
bright, clear day, if rainy or cloudy it will take fifteen minutes 
longer, then add sugar at the rate of one teacupful of sugar to 
four teacupfuls of juice, and boil until it jellies, when dropped 
on a cold plate. Place in jelly glasses, and keep in a dry, cool 
cellar. 

Preserved Oranges. — Boil the oranges in clear water until 
you can pass a straw through their skins; then clarify three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit, and pour over 
the oranges while hot. Let them stand one night, then boil them 
in the syrup until they are clear and the syrup thick. Take them 
from the syrup, and strain it clear over them. 

Preserved Citron. — Prepare the rind in any form desired, 
boil very hard in tolerably strong alum water for thirty or forty 
minutes, then take out and put into clear, cold water to stand 
over night; in the morning change the water and put on to boil, 
let cook until the citron has entirely changed color and is quite 
soft; then make a syrup, allowing one and one-half pounds of 
white sugar to one pound of fruit, put in the fruit, which needs 
but little more cooking; mace, ginger or lemon flavors nicely. 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 89 

Canned Rhubarb.— Take fresh, tender stalks, pare them, 
cut into pieces about an inch long. Pack these pieces solidly in 
preserving jars. Fill the jars with cold water and let them stand 
over night. In the morning pour off all the water and fill the 
jars with fresh cold water. Put on the rubber bands, being care- 
ful that they fit perfectly. Now place the jars one at a time, under 
a stream of cold water and keep them there until the water over- 
flows. Put on the cover, and seal while the water is still flowing 
over the jar. When all the jars have been sealed, wipe them and 
tighten the covers. 

Ground. Cherry Preserves. — Ground cherries or golden 
husk tomatoes, as they are sometimes called, make a very fine 
preserve. Select ripe fruit, make a syrup by dissolving in a lit- 
tle water one-half pound of sugar for each pound of fruit; when 
the cherries are cooked, remove with a perforated skimmer, boil 
syrup one-half hour, then pour over the fruit. 

Apple Ging-er. — Four pounds apples, four pounds light 
brown sugar, three lemons, one ounce white ginger root. Pare 
and chop apples fine; use the juice and grated rind of the lemons; 
get the ginger root in root form (it is fresher when procured at a 
druggist's); cook all together slowly three or four hours, or until 
it looks light and clear. This is delicious, and will keep for 
years as well as foreign sweetmeats. A little ginger root will 
give common apple sauce a most delicious flavor. 

Apple Sauce. — Stew slowly, with a little water, three 
quarts of apples till soft; then add one teaspoon of salt, one full 
coif ee cup of sugar, a piece of butter the size of an egg, and the 
grated rind and juice of two lemons. Stir well, cover and stew 
slowly a long time, till of a deep red color. 

Lemon Taffy. — One cup of granulated sugar, one-fourth cup 
of water, and a pinch of cream tartar. Boil until it hardens when 
dropped in water; pour on buttered, pans and when cool enough 
so that it will not burn the hands pull until it is a silvery white. 
Twist in a rope and cut with a sharp shears, 

Horehound Candy.— Three cups granulated sugar, one cup 
water. Boil until very brittle. Boil a spoonful of horehound in 
a little water; strain into the sugar while cooking. Pour on 
greased pan or marble, and cut in squares or sticks. 



90 THE EELTABLE CA^OK BOOK. 

Lemon Drops,— Sugar and water same as for Iiorehound. 
Pour out on well-greased tin or marble. Spread over the candy 
while hot one small tablespoonful of powdered citric acid, one 
teaspooufnl oil of lemon; work until absorbed, flatten, cut in 
small pieces, with thimble or as you like. 

Cocoanut Candy. — Three cups granulated or pulverized 
sugar, one cup water, pinch of cream tartar, boil from ten to fif- 
teen minutes; when nearly done add one cup of cocoanut. Set 
the dish in a pan of cold water, and stir until it begins to thicken; 
pour on buttered plates to dry; an earthen dish is best; tin will 
do if new and bright. 

Cocoanut Candy. — Grate the meat of a cocoanut and mix 
with it two pounds of sifted white sugar, the beaten whites of two 
eggs, and the milk of the nut. Make into little cakes, and in n 
short time it will be ready for use. 

Honey Candy. — Two cups white sugar, one cup water, foui 
tablespoonfuls of honey, boil until brittle on being dropped int<i 
water. Pull when cooling, and eat in any shape. 

Ice Cream Candy.— One cup sugar, one-third cup of water, 
one-fourth teaspoonful of cream tartar, butter the size of an egg. 
Boil all together about fifteen minutes, not stirring till taken 
from the fire, when the extract is added. 

Molasses Candy. — One cup of molasses, one-half cup ot 
sugar, one teaspoonful of vinegar, butter two-thirds as large as ^ 
nutmeg. When boiled stir in a little soda. 

Molasses Candy. — Three cups of sugar, one of water, pincli 
of cream tartar, butter one-half size of an egg. Flavor, pour on 
greased plates; pull on hook or with hands, and cut in any shape 
you wish. 

Peppermints. — Two cups of sugar, one cup of water. Boil 
five minutes, then flavor with one spoonful of peppermint. Stir 
until thick, then drop. 

Taffy. — Take a cup of good molasses, cup of granulated 
sugar, cup of sweet milk, butter the size of half an egg, then place 
them in a large spider over the fire, and stir constantly until hard; 
try some in a little cold water, and just before taking it from the 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 91 

fire add a quantity of English walnuts or shagbarks, or, if pre- 
ferred, a little grated chocolate. 

Cocoanut Drops. — To one cup of cocoanut add one-half cup 
of confectionery sugar and the white of one egg cut to a still 
froth, mix thoroughly and drop on buttered white paper. Bake 
fifteen minutes. 

Chocolate Cream, — Two cups sugar, one-half cup cream 
and milk, small piece of butter; boil four minutes, set in cold 
water and stir until can mould ; dip them in melted chocolate, but. 
ter and sugar. 

Chocolate Creams.— Two and a-half cups granulated sugar, 
one-half cup cold water, boil four minutes in tin sauce-pan, set 
pan in dish cold water; stir till it creams, make into little balls; 
cut one-half cake Baker chocolate into bits, melt in a bowl set in 
hot M^ater, stick a knitting needle in each cream ball, dip in choc- 
olate; this makes eighty; lay on buttered paper. 

Chocolate Creams. — One cup of sugar, one-half cup of 
water, one-half teaspoonf ul corn-starch. Boil about eight minutes 
and stir to a cream. Mould into little balls, place on paper, and, 
when cool, dip in dissolved chocolate. 

Horehound Candy. — Boil two ounces dried horehound in 
one and one-half pints of water for half an hour, strain and add 
three and one-half pounds brown sugar, boil over a hot fire until 
sufficiently hard, pour out in flat well-greased tins, and mark in 
squares or sticks as soon as cool enough to retain its shape. 

Chocolate Caramels. — Boil together for twenty minutes, 
one cup each of molasses, sugar, chocolate, sweet cream or milk, 
and a piece of butter size of an egg. Flavor with vanilla; try in 
water, stir a few minutes, pour out, cut in squares before cold. 

Chocolate Caramels. — One teaspoonful of butter, two table, 
spoonfuls of grated chocolate dissolved in a little hot water, 
one large cup of granulated sugar, one half teaspoonful of cream 
tartar, and enough water to dissolve the sugar. Boil until it is 
brittle when dropped in water, pour on buttered pans, when cool 
cut it into squares and break apart when cold. Vanilla caramels 
are made in the same way by omitting the chocolate and substi- 
tuting one tablespoonful of extract of vanilla. 



92 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Cream Candy. — This is made without cooking; the white 
of one egg, teaspoon ful of sweet cream; stir in sugar enough so 
you can handle it with the hands, then make it in any shape you 
wish, cut witli a thimble or make in balls, or in the shape of 
chocolate drops, and when cold dip in melted chocolate and lay 
on greased plates to dry. Season the ones to be made into choc- 
olate drops or to cocoanuts, with vanilla; it can also be flavored 
with cinnamon, rose, peppermint, wintergreen, etc. 

Cocoanut Drops. — One pound of cocoanut, one pound of 
powdered sugar, scant one-fourth pound of flour, whites of six 
eggs. Bake in a quick oven. 

Cream Walnuts. — Crack English walnuts carefully, so as 
to take the meats out whole. Take the white of one egg, half as 
much water, and stir in powdered sugar till the paste is stiff. 
Put the paste between the pieces of walnut. 

Peanut Candy. — Chop a quart of shelled peanuts. Butter 
a broad, shallow pan in the bottom and on the sides and spread 
the nuts evenly around. Boil one pound of sugar with half a 
teacup of water, add a pinch of cream tartar, and let boil until it 
cracks. Pour over the nuts and set aside; when half cool, cut in 
flat, broad sticks with a sharp knife. 

Homemade Candy. — Boil together for half an hour one 
large teaspoonf ul of water, two of butter, four of molasses, and 
nine of sugar. Stir briskly and cool in thin sheets. 

Kisses. — Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, add five 
spoonfuls of fine white sugar and flavor with lemon. Drop with 
a spoon on buttered paper, sift sugar over, and bake half an hour 
in a slow oven. 

Vinegar Candy. — Two cups of sugar, one-hall cup of water, 
four tablespooufuls of vinegar. Stir before putting on the stove, 
but not after. 

St. Louis Butter Taffy. — One cup of sugar, one-half cup 
of water, one teaspoonf ul of molasses, two teaspoonfuls of vine- 
gar, butter size of an egg. 

Chocolate Caramels. — One cup of grated chocolate, one cup 
of milk, one cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, butter the size of 



I'ltE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. OS 

an egg. Boil all together till it thickens, then cool in shallow 
pans. 

Molasses Tafly. — One-half pint New Orleans molasses, one 
teaspoonful of soda. Boil, test in water, and when done stir in 
the soda, pour ou plates to cool, and pull until of a pale buff color. 
If nut candy is desired, stir the kernels in the hot taffy, pour it 
on plates and cut in squares. 

Butter Scotch.. — One pound of light brown sugar, one-fourth 
pound of fresh butter. Boil, but do not stir, when done pour it 
on plates and cut in squares. 

Pickled Watermelon Rind. — For pickles cut into strips 
about two inches long, soak over night in water with a little salt 
added, in the morning pour off the water and add one quart of 
vinegar and one pint of sugar for every gallon of pickles. Cook 
slowly and stir often till they look clear. Add allspice, cinna- 
mon and cloves to suit the taste. Pickles from ripe cucumbers 
can be made in the same way. 

S-weet Apple Pickles. — Take seven pounds of sweet apples; 
pare and steam until tender. Place in a pan with three pints of 
vinegar, three pounds of sugar and half a piut ground spices in 
equal Quantities (cloves, cinnamon and allspice tied loosely in a 
cloth); cook them as you would preserves. When done, place in 
a jar, boil down the liquid, and pour over. If there is not enough 
to cover nicely, make more syrup in the same proportion. The 
pickles must be well covered. 

S-weet Cucumber Pickles. — Take a green cucumber, pare 
and clean seeds out, soak them in salt brine over night, then in 
the morning rinse with cold water, to one pint of vinegar add 
one pinch of brown sugar. Put in as many cucumbers as the 
vinegar and sugar will take, then take a bag of allspice and 
put in with the pickles while cooking. Cook all clear, put in jars 
and cover with greased paper. 

Excellent Catsup. — Put tomatoes in a tin kettle, cover 
close until hot enough to burst, then drain and pass through a 
sieve. To one quart of pulp add salt, two-thirds wine glass (or 
less), mustard seed, one-half a teaspoon; ginger, one-half a tea- 
spoon; cayenne pepper to the taste; brandy, a wine glass; vinegar. 



94: THE KELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

two-thirds tumbler; whole cloves, one-half wine glass; whole all- 
spice, one-half wine glass; two onions to be taken out whole. 
Shut tight and boil until of desired thickness. 

Walnut Catsup. — Walnut shell juice, three gallons; salt, 
seven pounds; ginger, eight ounces; garlic, eight ounces; horse 
radish, eight ounces; essence of anchovies, one quart. Mix. 

Pickled Cabbage. — Four large crisp cabbages chopped fine, 
one quart of onions, enough vinegar to cover, two pounds of 
brown sugar, two teaspoonfuls of mustard, black pepper, cinna- 
mon, tumeric, celery seed, allspice, mace, pulverized alum. Pack 
cabbage and onions in alternate layers with a little salt between. 
Let stand over night; scald vinegar, spices together and pour 
over cabbage. Do this three mornings, the fourth morning put 
over the fire and boil five minutes. 

Mixed. Pickle. — Cut into thin slices half a peck of green 
tomatoes, one small, hard head of cabbage, six green peppers, one 
dozen onions, one large root of horse-radish. Put all into a jar, 
sprinkle thoroughly with salt and let stand for twelve hours, then 
press the liquor from the mass,, and add to the pickle, black and 
white mustard seed, little ginger root, one ounce of whole all- 
spice, one tablespoonful of ground mustard, pack into a stone jar, 
and add one quart of good cider vinegar. Ready for use in a 
week. 

Blackberry Pickles. — Seven pounds of berries, three pounds 
of sugar, one pint of vinegar; cloves and cinnamon to taste, let 
all come to a boil, then skim out the berries into a jar, boil down 
the juice, pour on the berries and seal while hot with the white 
of an egg and flour sack, or put in cans and seal. 

Mint Vinegar. — Put into a wide-mouthed bottle fresh, clean 
mint leaves, enough to fill it loosely; then fill up the bottle with 
good vinegar, and after it has been stopped close for two or 
three weeks, it is to be poured off clean into another bottle, and 
kept well corked for use. Serve with lamb when mint cannot 
be obtained. 

Raspberry Vinegar. — Fill a jar with red raspberries, cover 
with best cider or apple vinegar. Let it stand ten days, strain 
through a cloth or sieve, don't press the berries, just let the juice 
run through; add one pound loaf sugar to every pint of juice; 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 95 

boil twenty minutes, skim, and bottle when cold. Use a tea- 
spoon to a glass of water. 

Pickled Onions.— After pouring boiling water on tbem, 
peel; put them in weak brine, changing it every day for five 
days; then drain dry. Take vinegar to cover, add pepper, cin- 
namon, a few cloves, some pieces horseradish; boil all in the 
vinegar; pour on when cold. 

Chili Sauce. — Eighteen ripe tomatoes, one onion, three 
green peppers, all chopped fine, one cup sugar, two and one half 
cups vinegar, two teaspoons salt, one teaspoon each of all kinds 
of spices. Boil two hours. 

Grape Catsup. — Five pounds ripe grapes, two and one-half 
pounds white sugar, one pint vinegar, one tablespoouful each 
ground clove, allspice, cinnamon, white pepper, and one-half salt, 
a saltspoon of cayenne pepper. Pick the grapes over carefully, 
wash them, put into a porcelain kettle (six or eight quart) with 
a pint of water, place over a moderate fire; when heated through, 
with a potato masher mash thoroughly, boil until the pulp is 
dissolved, stirring often to prevent burning; when the pulp is soft 
press through a fine pressed tin colander (there should be nothing 
left but seeds), return to the pot and boil, adding other ingre- 
dients; boil until quite thick, stirring continually; when cool bot- 
tle and seal. 

Pickled Cauliflower. — One cauliflower, boil in salted water 
until tender; place in an earthen dish; boil one pint vinegar, one 
cup sugar, six cloves, six whole black peppers, six allspice to- 
gether, and pour over the cauliflower; to be eaten cold. 

Blackberry Pickles.— To four quarts of blackberries, take 
two quarts of sugar and one pint of vinegar, with three teaspoou- 
fuls each of ground cinnamon and cloves; tie the spices in a 
cloth, boil all together one hour, then skim out the berries; boil 
the juice down about one-third, turn over the berries, and keep in 
a closely covered jar. 

Mustard Pickles.— Peel them well, cut them in slices, then 
take the seeds out, mix them well with salt, and leave them 
in a dish or bowl all night. The next morning lay them single 
on a table, let the salt water run off, and then dry each with a 
clean cloth, then put them in a stone jar, and always put be- 



96 THE KELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

tween cloves, onions, allspice, bay leaf, and mustard seed, then 
boil strong vinegar and let it cool off, then pour it over the pickles. 
Mango Peppers. — Cut the ends off the peppers and clean 
out; soak two days in clear water; one week in salt water; fill 
with cabbage and inclose. 

Grape Catsup. — Wild grapes make delicious catsup, and 
jelly. Boil grapes until soft, then press through a coarse sieve. 
To five pounds of grape pulp, add three pounds of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful each of cloves, pepper and 
allspice, one grated nutmeg, one quart of vinegar. Boil slowly 
until thick as tomato catsup, then bottle. 

Piccalilli. — One-half peck of smooth green tomatoes (about 
two inch dameter nicest size); two medium firm heads of cab- 
bage; slice all as thin as possible, rejecting the stem and blossom 
parts of the tomatoes, and the coarse leaves of the cabbage. 
Equal quantities can be taken, or more cabbage than tomatoes, as 
one prefers. Put into a stone jar alternate layers of tomatoes and 
cabbage, sprinkle every layer or two with salt (allowing about 
pint salt to two gallons of pickle). Let stand twelve or fourteen 
hours, then press and drain out the pickle as dry as possible. Put 
into a stone jar, putting in cayenne pepper, whole cloves, mustard 
seed, grated horse radish to suit one's taste, and a little sliced or 
chopped onion if one likes. Heat boiling hot enough of the best 
vinegar to cover the pickle, weighting it down with saucer. Re- 
heat the vinegar two or three times, and it will be sure to keep 
well. 

Chili Sauce. — One peck of ripe tomatoes, skinned, six green 
hot-peppers, six small onions, two teaspoonfuls each of ground 
allspice, cloves and cinnamon, one cup of sugar, five cups of 
vinegar, salt to taste. Chop the onions and peppers fine, boil all 
together slowly four or five hours, then seal up in wide-mouthed 
bottles. 

Mushroom Catsup. — Put a layer of full grown, freshly 
gathered mushrooms, at the bottom of a deep pan. Sprinkle 
thickly with salt. Then mushrooms, and salt till all are in the 
pan. Let them stand three hours. Then mash them well, with 
the hands, and cover over. Let them stand for two days, stirring 
up each day well. Put them into a large stone jar. To each 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 97 

quart of mushrooms allow one ounce and a half of black pepper- 
corns, and half an ounce of whole allspice. Close the jar tightly, 
and set in a pot of hot water, and let it boil for three hours. Then 
take out the jar. Pour the juice clear from the settlings, through 
a hair sieve, without pressing, into a clean pan. Let this juice 
gently simmer a-half or three-quarters of an hour. Skim it well 
while cooking. Then pour it through a cloth, and add one table- 
spoon of good brandy to each pint of catsup. Let it stand as be- 
fore. Bottle it in half pint bottles. Closely cork. Dip each bot- 
tle in cement. 

Chow Chow. — One peck of green tomatoes, four heads of 
cabbage, one-half pint small peppers, one dozen medium sized 
onions, one pint horse radish; grind all together in a sausage 
grinder, if you have one; if not chop ver}'' fine; put in a layer of 
the ingredients in a dish, then a layer of salt, let stand all night, 
then drain thoroughly; while draining, put in your porcelain- 
lined preserving kettle one gallon of good vinegar, a quantity of 
cloves and allspice tied in a bag, one teacup of sugar, the same of 
white mustard seed, a little celery seed, one-half ounce of tu- 
meric acid, and a little salt, if necessary. Let this come to a boil, 
then add your ingredients, letting all boil together about five 
minutes, stirring well. When done, pack in a stone jar; this rule 
will make about two and one-half gallons. 

French Pickle.— Twenty four large cucumbers, six red pep- 
pers, one-fourth peck of beans, one-fourth peck of oniois, two 
large heads of cabbage, one ounce of celery seed, one-fourth 
pound white mustard seed; one-fourth pound of dry mustard, one 
cup of sugar, one ounce of tumeric. Boil the cucumbers, etc., in 
vinegar and water, with salt thrown in, for fifteen minutes, then 
drain and cool; when cold, add cold vinegar, with the mustard, 
sugar, tumeric, etc. 



PART XI. 

Ice Cream, Sherbets and Water Ices. 

Neapolitan Ice Cream. — One quart cream, four eggs, one 
cup sugar, flavoring. Under this name may be included all the 
varieties made with eggs and cream. The foundation is the 
same for all, the varieties taking their name from the flavoring 
used. Directions for preparing the flavoring will be found un- 
der each special head. 

No. 1. Scald* the cream; beat the yolks till thick and 
creamy, add the sugar and beat again. Beat the whites stiff, and 
beat them well into the yolks. Pour the hot cream into the eggs, 
and when well mixed turn back into the double boiler and cook 
like a boiled custard. Stir constantly until the foam disappears 
and the custard has thickened enough to coat the spoon. Strain 
at once, and when cold add the flavoring and freeze. 

No. 3. Make the custard as in No. 1, using the yolks only. 
Beat the whites unjtil just foamy but not stiff, strain the hot 
custard into them, beating thoroughly. Or, add the beaten 
whites when the custard is partly frozen. 

Plain Ice Cream. — One pint milk, one cup sugar, two 
scant tablespoonfuls flour, one pint cream, two eggs, one salt- 
spoonful salt, two tablespoonfuls flavoring. Boil the milk and 
cream, reserving a quarter of a cup of milk. Mix the sugar, 
flour and salt thoroughly. Beat the eggs till light, add the cold 
milk and the sugar mixture, and when well mixed add the boil- 
ing milk. Turn back into the double boiler and cook twenty 
minutes. Stir constantly till smooth, and after that occasionally. 
Strain through a gravy strainer, add more sugar if needed, and 
when cold add the flavoring. Freeze as usual. This is a good 
foundation for an inexpensive cream, and if a larger quantity be 
desired, more cream and sugar may be added with the flavoring. 
If the milk be boiling when the flour is added, and cooked 



* Scald means to heat over hot water till hot, but not boiling. The cup 
used in this receipt holds half a pint. 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 99 

thoroughly, there will be no taste of the flour. If you have no 
cream, use all milk, four eggs, and add one rounding tablespoon- 
ful of butter when you take the thickened milk from the fire. 
The amount of sugar needed will vary with the flavoring. 

Hollipin Ice Cream. — Make the Neapolitan ice cream and 
flavor it with vanilla or almond. When ready to serve cut several 
vanilla cigarette wafers into two-inch pieces and stick them into 
the cream. 

Maraschino Ice CreaiA.— Make the Neapolitan ice cream 
and flavor it with vanilla and a few drops of rose and almond ex- 
tract. "When ready to serve pour a gill of maraschino over the 
cream, and serve a spoonful of the liquor with each portion of 
cream. 

Macaroon Ice Cream. — Dry one dozen stale macaroons, 
roll or pound them fine, and sift through a fine gravy strainer. 
Add them to ice cream made after either receipt and flavored 
with extract of dmond or sherry wine. Stir them in when the 
cream is partly frozen. Scald the cream if you wish a firm, 
solid cream. 

Ice Cream with. Gelatine. — One quart milk, eight eggs, 
one saltspoon salt, one pint cream, one and a half cups sugar, 
one-quarter box Nelson's Gelatine, lemon, coffee, wine, or any 
strong flavoring. Soak the gelatine in half a cup of the measure 
of cold milk. Boil the remainder of the milk and cream. Beat 
the eggs till creamy, add the sugar and salt and beat again. Add 
the hot milk, then put into the double boiler, stir constantly, and 
cook till it thickens and coats the spoon. Add the soaked gela- 
tine, and more sugar if needed, and when dissolved strain it and 
set away to cool. When cold, flavor highly with lemon, wine, 
or any flavoring strong enough to disguise the taste of the 
gelatine. 

Frozen Custard.— One quart milk, one cup sugar, one salt- 
spoonful salt, six or eight eggs (yolks), flavoring. Scald the 
milk. Beat the yolks till thick and creamy, add the sugar and 
salt and beat again. Pour the hot milk over them, and when 
well mixed turn into the double boiler and cook until thick and 
creamy. Stir constantly and lift the boiler up from the fire 



100 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

occasionally, to check the cooking. Strain at once, and when 
cool, flavor to taste. This will be greatly improved, by adding a 
little cream (even if it be but half a cupful) just before freezing. 
When eggs and milk are used without cream in making ice 
cream, they should always be cooked before freezing. Then 
the ice cream will be rich, smooth, solid, and fine-grained; but 
when made without cooking, it will be snowy, mushy, or full of 
icy particles, and be thin and watery when melted. 

Baked Apple Ice Cream.— No. 1. Bake and sift six nice, 
sweet apples. Add one quart of rich cream and sugar to taste. 
When the sugar is dissolved, freeze as directed. 

No. 2. Bake and sift six tart apples. Add one saltspoonful 
of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of rose water, one tablespoonful of 
lemon juice, and sugar to sweeten. Add one quart of cream, 
scalded, with one cup of sugar. When cool, freeze as usual. 

Banana Ice Cream. — Peel six ripe bananas, split and re- 
move the seeds and dark portion in the center. Kub the pulp 
through a puree strainer. Add to it the juice of one lemon, a 
saltspoonful of salt, and sugar to make it quite sweet. Add this 
pulp to either receipt for ice cream, and freeze as usual. 

Vanilla Ice Cream. — No. 1. The simplest way to make 
vanilla ice cream is to make either of the five kinds given as a 
foundation, and just before freezing flavor with from one to two 
tablespoonfuls of the vanilla extract. The amount will depend 
upon the strength and purity of the extract. 

No. 2. Make whichever foundation cream is preferred and 
use a quarter less than the sugar given in the receipt. Just before 
freezing add from one to two tablespoonfuls of vanilla sugar, or 
enough to give the flavor desired. 

Frozen Pudding. — Any rich ice cream highly flavored with 
wine, brandy, Jamaica rum, or maraschino, and made quite thick 
with a variety of fruits, nuts, etc., and served with a cold, rich 
sauce, may be called a " frozen pudding." Sometimes the cream 
is molded in cake-lined molds, or served in a hollow loaf of cake 
(a cake with the inside cut ont, leaving an inch thickness of crust 
on the bottom and sides) and ornamented with whipped cream. 

Follow the receipt for ice cream with gelatine. While the 
crearii is cooling prepare the fruit and nuts, and make the sauce. 



^ THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 101 

Use one pound of assorted French fruit; or one pint of brandy 
peaches; or one pound of mixed raisins, currants and citron; use 
figs and dates, if you like, or use half fruit and half nuts, 
almonds, walnuts, or pistachios; or use half fruit or half crumbs 
of macaroons, dry cake, etc. French fruit should be cut fine 
and softened by soaking in hot syrup. Canned fruit should be 
drained and sprinkled with sugar. Dried fruit should be washed, 
picked over, stoned or seeded, and fine cut. Raisins Bhould be 
steeped in boiling water, enough to cover, till swollen and tender, 
then drained, seeded and cut in quarters. Citron should be 
shaved in small, thin slices, and if very hard, steeped before 
cutting. 

Mix half the fruit and nuts with the frozen cream. Butter 
a melon mold slightly and line it with lady-fingers or thin sponge 
cake. Fit it in tightly, then sprinkle a layer of mixed fruit over 
the cake. Pack the frozen cream in nearly to the top, then the 
remainder of the fruit, and cover with cake. Cover closely and 
bind a strip of buttered cloth round the edge of the cover, or 
cover the edge thick with butter. Pack in ice and salt for one 
or two hours. When ready to serve dip quickly into warm 
water and turn out carefully and serve with sauce. 

Sauce for Frozen Pudding. — No. 1. Sweeten and flavor 
a pint of cream. Chill it, and just before serving whip it and 
skim off the froth. 

No. 2. Make a rich boiled custard with one pint of hot 
cream, the yolks of four eggs, and half a cup of sugar. Flavor 
with lemon, caramel, or vanilla. Serve it very cold. 

Coffee Ice Cream.— Make a quarter of a cup of filtered 
coffee, or, if you have no filter coffeepot, put two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of fine ground coffee in a fine strainer placed in a bowl. 
Then pour through it one-third of a cup of boiling water. Pour 
the liquid through a second time, and if not clear strain it through 
a fine cloth. Add this clear liquid to the hot cream or custard, 
and make the ice cream after either receipt. 

No. 2. Steep one-fourth cup of coarsely ground coffee in 
one pint of cream or milk twenty minutes. Remove it, let it 
settle, and pour off carefully, then strain it and add it to the re- 



102 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

mainder of the cream or custard. This is sufficient for one quart 
of ice cream, made according to either receipt. 

Nut Ice Cream. — Filbert, Hazelnut, or Chestnut. — Shell and 
blanch the nuts, then either boil till soft, mash to a pulp and 
press through a strainer; or roast slightly, chop, pound to a paste 
and sift; pound again all that does not go through ; then cook 
the nut paste with the cream or custard. Allow one cup of nuts 
to either receipt for ice cream. 

English Walnut. — Shell, blanch, chop fine, sift, and stir into 
the cream when partly frozen. 

American Walnut or Shellbark, and Pecan Nuts. — Shell, chop 
fine without blanching, sift, and stir them into the cream just 
before freezing, or as soon as thoroughly chilled. In using pecans 
avoid taking any of the puckery brown substance which often 
adheres to the meat. Rinse them quickly in hot water and dry 
them before chopping. 

Butternuts and the three-sided cream nuts are too oily to use 
in ice cream. 

Ice creams made with nuts should be salted more than other 
creams. 

Frozen Apricots. — Cut one can of apricots into small 
pieces, add one pint of sugar and one quart of water. When the 
sugar is dissolved, freeze. "When it begins to harden, add one 
pint of whipped cream, measured after whipping. This is de- 
licious without the cream. 

Peaches, pineapples, cherries and strawberries are delicious 
when frozen. Yary the amount of sugar as the fruit requires. 
These differ from the sherbets in that the fruit is cut in small 
pieces and not sifted. They may be made with equal parts of 
fruit and water, with sugar to taste, and a little cream or not, as 
you please. 

Iiemon Sherbets. — Four lemons, one pint sugar, one quart 
boiling water, bhave off the peel from two lemons in thin, wafer- 
like parings, being careful to take none of the light-colored rind 
below the oil cells. Put the parings into a bowl, add the boiling 
water and let it stand ten minutes, closely covered. Cut the 
lemons in halves, remove the seeds, squeeze out the juice and add 



THE RELIABLE COOS: BOOK. 103 

it with the sugar to the water. Add more sugar if needed. When 
cold strain it through a fine strainer into the can and freeze. 

Pineapple Sherbet. — One pint of fresh or one can of 
grated pineapple, one quart sugar, one pint water, one table- 
spoonful gelatine, one lemon. Pare the pineapple, remove all 
the eyes, and pick off the tender part with a fork, rejecting all 
the hard core. If still too coarse, chop it a little. Add the sugar, 
water, lemon juice, and gelatine, which should be first soaked in 
cold water and then dissolved in boiling woter. Freeze as usual. 

Strawberry or Blackberry Sherbet.— One quart berries, 
or enough to make one pint juice, one pint sugar, one lemon. 
Mash the berries, add the sugar, and after standing till the sugar 
is dissolved, add the water and lemon juice. Press through fine 
cheese cloth and freeze. Vary the sugar as the fruit requires. 
All of these fresh fruits are improved by the addition of the 
lemon. 

Lemon Ginger Sherbet. — Cut four ounces of candied gin- 
ger in fine pieces and steep it with the lemon, as directed in lemon 
sherbet. 

Lemon Sherbet (with gelatine.) — One tablespoonful gela- 
tine, six lemons, one pint sugar, three and a half cups cold 
water, half cup boiling water. Soak the gelatine in half a cup 
of cold water twenty minutes. Put the sugar and the remaining 
cold water into a large lip bowl or pitcher. Pare the lemons, cut 
in halves, remove all the seeds, and press out the juice with a 
lemon-squeezer; add it to the syrup. Dissolve the soaked gela- 
tine in the boiling water, add it to the other mixture. If liked 
sweeter, add more sugar. When the sugar is dissolved strain 
through fine wire strainer or cheese-cloth, turn into the freezer 
can and freeze as directed. Sherbet made in this way has none 
of the volatile lemon oil, which to a delicate stomach often 
proves indigestible. 

Lemon Sherbet (with white of egg.) — Two quarts boiling 
water, eight lemons, one egg (white), one quart sugar. Spread 
part of the sugar on a shallow plate or board, and af ler wiping 
the lemons with a clean, damp cloth, roll them in the sugar to 
extract the oil. Then cut in halves, remove the seeds, and 



104 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

squeeze out the juice. Boil all the sugar and water until clear. 
Remove the scum as it rises. Add the lemon juice to the syrup, 
strain it, and pour it gradually into the beaten egg. Then freeze 
as usual. 

Shaddock, or Grape-Fruit Sherbet. — One tablespoonful 
gelatine, three cups sugar, one pint water, six shaddocks. Soak 
the gelatine in a little of the cold water fifteen minutes; add the 
sugar to the remainder, and boil five minutes. Dissolve the 
soaked gelatine in the boiling syrup. Divide the shaddocks 
across the sections, remove the seeds, and scoop out the pulp 
with a teaspoon. Leave all the membranous walls of the sec- 
tions in the skin. Add the pulp to the cold syrup. Freeze until 
hard, or only until mushy, as preferred. 

Frozen Beverages. — Coffee. Prepare two quarts of strong, 
clear coffee, and sweeten to taste. When cold put it in the freezer 
and turn the crank until it is like soft mush. 

Tea. Prepare one quart of tea, sweeten to taste, and when 
cool add a little lemon juice. Freeze until mushy. 

Eggriog. Beat two eggs till light and creamy, add two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar and beat again. Add two tablespoonfuls of 
wine or brandy and one cup of cream or milk. Put in the freezer 
can and turn the crank until half frozen. 



PART XII. 

Miscellaneous. 

Potato Yeast. — Grate six potatoes, add one cup sugar, one 
cup salt, pour boiling water until it thickens, about four quarts. 
When cool, add one pint good yeast. Set in a warm place till 
well raised. Put away in a stone or glass jar, with thin cloth 
cover. Set in a cool place and will keep two months. In mak- 
ing bread with this yeast use a little more than of hop yeast. 

Egg- Plant. — No, 1. Peel it, cut it in slices about half an inch 
thick, spread salt over each slice, putting one slice on top of the 
other; let it lie two hours, then wash the salt off of it in cold 
water, dry it with a towel. Beat two or three eggs, then dip each 
slice in rolled cracker; fry in boiling hot lard the same as you 
would doughnuts. 

No. 2. Cut the egg plant in slices an inch thick, and let it 
lie for several hours in salted water to remove the bitter taste. 
To fry it put the slices in the frying pan with small quantity but- 
ter and turn them when one side is done. 

Scrappel. — Take four pigs' feet, singe, scrape and wash 
thoroughly; boil soft, take from the fire, pick out the bones, 
mash fine, season with salt and pepper, pour all back in the pot, 
bring to a boil, and thicken with oatmeal or cornmeal; then pour 
into a net square pan, set aside to cool, cut in slices, to use cold, 
or, better yet, dip in flour and fry in butter; it is simply delicious; 
it is also nice made of either veal or chicken. 

Baked Macaroni. — Put the macaroni into boiling water, to 
every quart of which a teaspoon of salt has been added. It will 
be boiled tender in about twenty minutes. When done, drain, 
rinse, and lay in cold water. Then place it in a baking dish. 
Pour over it the following sauce: One ounce each of butter and 
flour. Stir on the fire till they bubble. Gradually add half a 
pint of boiling water. Stir the same with an egg-whip until 
smooth and then season with one teaspoon of salt, and a quarter 
of a saltspoon of pepper. Dust bread crumbs over the top, put a 
few pieces of butter on that, and brown quickly in a very hot 
oven. 



lv)6 The keliable cook book. 

Ham Toast. — Mince boiled ham from yesterday dinner very 
fine, stir in a pint of cream, prefer butter, and mustard and two 
eggs beaten, boil and pour over nicely browned toast; serve hot. 

Ham Toast.— Mix with one taWespoouful of finely chopped 
or grated ham the beaten-up yolk of an egg, and a little cream 
and pepper, heat over the fire, and then spread the mixture either 
on hot, buttered t -last, or on slices of bread fried quite crisp in 
butter; serve very hot. 

Egg Sandwiches. — The yolks of two hard-boiled eggs 
pounded in a mortar with a little chopped, 'parsley, butter, salt 
pepper. When of a fine paste, spread on the sandwich bread, and 
put slices of chicken and small salad chopped. 

Ham Sandwich.. — Take the pieces of boiled ham which are 
left after the best of the slices have been cut, and chop fine. 
Spread this on slices of buttered bread with pepper or mustard 
according to taste. 

Turkey Dressing. —Take two-thirds bread crumbs and one- 
third fresh mashed potatoes, two eggs, a small piece of butter; 
season with onions, sage, salt and pepper, stir lightly with a fork. 

Dressing for Turkey. — Four crackers, one tablespoonful 
of sweet marjoram, half a teaspoonf ul of pepper, a very little 
clove; add salt and butter the size of an egg. 

Raspberry Salad. — Of sweet fruit salads few are more deli- 
cious than raspberry, the fruit that more than any other seems to 
need a syrup or dressing to bring out its delicious flavor. To a 
quart of raspberries you need half a pint of red currant juice and 
a gill of clear syrup, made by dissolving a gill of sugar into a 
saucepan with a tablespoonful of hot water; Avhen melted add the 
currant juice, [;when cold poyr this over the raspberries, and set 
on ice till morning. 

Tomato Salad. — Take six round, smooth ripe tomatoes, pour 
over them some boiling water and let them stand in it about two 
minutes. Then take a sharp knife and peel off all the skin — 
which has been loosened by the hot water. Set them on ice until 
they are cold and firm. Then, with a sharp knife, cut them in 
even round slices, but do not separate; let each tomato, though 
cut, remain in its original shape. Set each on a round scalloped 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 10) 

dish in a little nest of the inner leaves of a crisp lettuce, about 
three leaves to each tomato. Then pour over them a nice mayon- 
naise sauce. 

Mince Meat.— One-half pound of raw beefsteak (no skin o^ 
fat) well chopped, one-half pound of beef suet chopped, one 
pound of stoned raisins, one pound of cleaned currants, one and 
one-fourth pound apples peeled, cored and chopped, one-half 
pound of citron and orange peel chopped fine, one and one-half 
pounds of brown sugar, one dessert spoon of salt to draw out 
the flavor, one small nutmeg, one tablespoon of allspice, a little 
brandy ia liked by some, an extra half pound of sugar will keep 
the mince meat as well as brandy. This is ready for immediate 
use, but keeping improves it. 

Mince Meat. — Four pounds chopped meat, one pound suet, 
nine pounds apples, three pounds raisins, two pounds currants, 
five pounds sugar, three teaspoons cloves, ten teaspoons cinnamon, 
two nutmegs, two teaspoons black pepper, five tablespoons salt, 
one quart boiled cider, one quart molasses. 

Mince Meat. — Boil solid piece of beef till very tender, add 
salt while boiling, chop very fine. To one bowl of meat add two 
heaping bowls of chopped russet apples, sweeten with sugar to 
taste. Mix with good strong cider, one and a-half pounds of 
seeded raisins, one-half pound of currants washed thoroughly. 
Pour over them cider enough to boil slowly about fifteen minutes; 
when cold add them to the mince meat. Flavor with cloves, all- 
spice, nutmeg and cinnamon. In using the cider put only enough 
to mix the ingredients, then moisten thoroughly with good French 
brandy. The pies should be baked slowly one hour. 

Rice a la Fromage. — Boil one cupful of rice, strain and 
dry. In a baking dish put a layer of rice, pepper and salt. Grate 
one-fifth of a pound of mild cheese, sprinkle some over the rice 
in layers until all is used. Beat an eg^^ with one-half cup of milk 
and pour over the contents of the dish. Spread bread crumbs on 
top, drop a teaspoonful of melted butter over. Bake until nicely 
browned. 

Mince Meat. — Two pounds fresh lean beef, boiled, and 
when cold chopped fine, three-fourths pound beef suet chopped 
very fine, four pounds of apples, pared and chopped, one and one- 



108 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

half pounds of raisins, one pound of currants, well washed; three- 
fourths pound of citron shaved fine, mace, clover, cinnamon, nut- 
meg, allspice, sugar and salt to taste, one pint of boiled cider, 
mix thoroughly, using enough of the liquor in which the meat 
was boiled, to moisten it, heat all together, and when done, pour 
in a stone jar, keep closely covered in a cool, dry place; if a larger 
batch is required, double the receipe; you can add a little brandy 
if preferred to the last. 

Chow Chow. — One quart large cucumbers, one quart small 
cucumbers, two quarts onions, four heads cauliflower, six green 
peppers, one quart green tomatoes, one gallon vinegar, one pound 
mustard, two cups sugar, two cups flour, one ounce turmeric. 
Put all in salt and water one night; cook all the vegetables in 
brine until tender, except large cucumbers. Pour over vinegar 
and spices. 

Pickling Cauliflowers. — Take whitest and closest cauli- 
flowers in bunches ; spread on earthen dish, cover them with 
salt, and let stand three days to draw out all the water. Then put 
in jars, pour boiling salt and water over them, let stand over 
night; then drain with a hair sieve, and put in glass jars; fill up 
jars with vinegar; cover tight. 

East India Pickles.— One hundred cucumbers (large and 
small) one peck green tomatoes, half peck onions, four cauli- 
flowers, four red peppers (without seeds), four heads celery, one 
pint bottle horse-radish. Slice all, stand in salt twenty-four 
hours; then drain, pour over weak vinegar, stand on stove until 
it comes to a boil, then drain again. One ounce ground cinna- 
mon, one ounce ground turmeric, pound mustard, quarter pound 
brown sugar; wet these with cold vinegar; add sufficient vinegar 
to moisten all the pickles. Cook all together ten minutes. Seal 
in bottles while hot. 

Pickled Red Cabbage. — Slice it into a colander, sprinkle 
each layer with salt; let it drain two days, then put into a jar, poui 
boiling vinegar enough to cover, put in a few slices of red beet- 
root. Choose purple red cabbage. Those who like flavor of 
spice will boil it, with the vinegar. Cauliflower cut in bunches, 
and thrown in after being salted, will look red and beau- 
tiful. 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 109 

French. Pickles. — One peck green tomatoes, sliced; six large 
onions, teacup salt thrown on over night. Drain thoroughly, boil 
in two quarts water and one quart vinegar fifteen cr twenty 
minutes; drain in colander; then take four quarts vinegar, two 
pounds brown sugar, half pound white mustard seed, two table- 
spoonfuls cloves, two tablespoonfuls cinnamon, two tablespoon- 
fiils ginger, two tablespoonfuls ground mustard, teaspoonful 
cayene pepper; put all together, cook fifteen minutes. 

Mangoes. — Take small musk melons and cut an oval piece 
out of one side; take out the seeds with teaspoon, and fill this 
space with stuffing of chopped onion, scraped horse-radish, 
mustard seed, cloves, and whole pepper; sew in the piece. Put 
in jar. pour boiling vinegar, with a little salt in it, over them. 
Do this three times, then put in fresh vinegar, cover close. 

Pickles. — Use glass bottles for pickles, also wooden knives 
and forks in preparation of them. Fill bottles three parts full with 
articles to be pickled, then fill bottle with vinegar. Use sauce- 
pans lined with earthenware, or stone pipkins, to boil vinegar 
in. 

Pickled Peaches. — Take ripe, but not too soft peaches, put 
a clove into one end of each peach. Take two pounds brown sugar 
to gallon of vinegar, skim and boil up twice; pour it hot over 
peaches and cover close. In a w^eek or two pour off and scald 
vinegar again. After this they will keep any length of time. 

To Pickle Cucumbers. — Take two or three hundred, lay them 
on a dish, salt, and let them remain eight or nine hours; then 
drain, laying them in a jar, pour boiling vinegar upon them. 
Place near the fire, covered with vine-leaves. If they do not 
become sufficiently green, strain off the vinegar, boil it, and again 
pour it over them, covering with fresh leaves. Continue till they 
become green as you wish. 

To Pickle Tomatoes. — Always use those that are thoroughly 
ripe. The small round ones are decidedly the best. Do not 
prick them, as most books direct, Let them lie in strong brine 
three or four days, then put down in layers in jars, mixing with 
small onions and pieces of horse-radish. Then pour on vinegar 
(cold), which should be first spiced ; let there be a spice-bag to 



110 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

throw into every pot. Cover carefully, and set by in cellar full 
month before using. 

Sweet Pickles for Plums, Peaches or Tomatoes. — Four 
quarts cider vinegar, five pounds sugar, quarter pound cinna- 
mon, two ounces cloves to seven pounds fruit. Scald the vinegar 
and sugar together and skim, add spices, boil up once, and pour 
over the fruit. Pour off and scald vinegar twice more at inter- 
vals of three days, and then cover all close. A less expensive 
way: Take four pounds sugar to eight pounds of fruit, two ounces 
cinnamon, one ounce cloves, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoonful 
allspice. 

Brandy Peaches. — Drop peaches in hot water, let them re- 
main till skin can be ripped off; make thin syrup, let it cover 
fruit; take it out, make very rich syrup, and add, after it is taken 
from the fire, while it is still hot, an equal quantity of brandy. 
Pour while still warm over the peaches in the jar. Peaches must 
be covered with it. 

Canned Pineapple. — Pare fruit — be very particular to cut 
out eyes. Weigh and chop fine. Add same weight of sugar. 
Mix thoroughly in large crock, let it stand twenty-four hours. 
Then put in cans, fill full, seal tight. After leaving them about 
three weeks look and see if any signs of working. If so, pour 
into pan, warm through, then replace in cans. 

Spiced Tomatoes. — Twenty pounds of ripe tomatoes scalded 
and peeled, two quarts vinegar, eight pounds sugar, four table- 
spoonfuls each of cinnamon, cloves, and allspice. Boil till 
thick, stirring often. 

Spiced Currants.— Five pounds currants, four pounds brown 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls cloves, two tablespoonfuls cinnamon, 
one pint vinegar; boil two hours or till quite thick. 

Spiced Peaches. — Seven pounds fruit, one pint vinegar, 
three pounds sugar, two ounces cinnamon, half ounce cloves. 
Scald together sugar, vinegar and spices; pour over the fruit. 
Let stand twety-four hours; drain off, scald again and pour over 
fruit, letting it stand another twenty-four hours. Boil all to- 
gether until fruit is tender. Skim it and boil liquor until 
thickened. Pour over fruit and set away in jar. 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. Ill 

Spiced Grapes.— Seven pounds grapes, three pounds sugar, 
one pint vinegar, one tablespoonful cloves, one tablespoonful 
cinnamon. 

Spiced Elderberries. — Take nine pounds cleaned elder 
berries, three pounds brown sugar, one pint vinegar, one ounce 
cloves, one ounce allspice, one ounce cinnamon; put sugar and 
vinegar in a two-gallon brass or copper kettle, and place it on the 
stove; let it come to a boil, then add berries and let it boil 
two-and-a-half hours; when done grind spice, and tie in little 
bags and put in; simmer a few minutes, take off and seal in 
cans. 

Pickled Peaches or Pears. — One quart vinegar to four-and- 
a-half pounds sugar, half pound sugar to little over one 
pound fruit; place all the sugar and vinegar over the fire till it 
comes to a boil; then lay a layer of fruit and cook it until soft 
enough to run a fork through; then remove the fruit and fill the 
same way until all are done; the syrup needs no more cooking; 
before cooking the fruit, stick four cloves in each. 

To Roast a Fowl. — Time, one hour. One large fowl, two 
or three large spoonfuls bread crumbs, pepper and salt, half pound 
butter. Prepare fowl for roasting; put into inside bread crumbs, 
seasoned with pepper, salt, and piece of butter size of large wal- 
nut. Roast at a clear fire, basting well with butter; just before 
done, dredge with flour, and baste again with butter. When 
done, add little warm water to butter in dripping-pan, or a little 
mry thin melted butter, and strain over fowl. Serve with bread 
sauce, or little gravy in tureen if preferred. 

Goose. — This requires keeping, the same as fowls, some days 
before cooking. The goose is best in the Autumn and early part 
of Winter— never good in Spring. What is called a green goose 
is four months old. It is insipid after that, though tender. Pick 
well and singe the goose, then clean carefully. Put the liver and 
gizzard on to cook as a turkey's. When the goose is washed, and 
ready for stufllng, have boiled three white potatoes, skin and 
mash them; chop three onions very fine, throw them into cold 
water; stir into the potatoes a spoonful of butter, a little salt and 
black pepper, a tablespoonful of finely-rubbed sage leaves ; drairi 



113 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

off the onions and mix with the potato, sage, etc. When well 
mixed, stuff the goose with the mixture. Have ready a coarse 
needle and thread, and sew up the slit made for cleaning and in- 
troducing the stuffing, A full-grown goose requires one-and- 
three-quarter hours. Roast it as a turkey, dredging and basting. 
The gravy is prepared as for poultry, with the liver and gizzard. 
Apple-sauce is indispensable for roast goose. 

Hoast Goose or Duck. — Singe, draw and truss fowl; if an 
old one parboil it; best stuffing for a goose is sage and onions. 
If a strong flavor of onions is liked, they should be chopped raw. 
If this is not the case, should be boiled in one or two waters, and 
mixed with bread crumbs, powdered sage, salt, pepper, and ex- 
tract of nutmeg to taste. Fill bird with stuffing, sew up with 
coarse thread, sprinkle salt over, and set in pan with a little warm 
water. Baste frequently, and do not take from oven until thor- 
oughly cooked. 

Chicken Pates. — Chop meat of cold chicken fine and season 
well. Make large cupful rich drawn butter, and while on fire 
stir in two eggs, boiled hard, minced very fine, also a little 
chopped parsley, then chicken meat. Let almost boil. Have ready 
some pate-pans of good paste, baked quickly to light brown. Slip 
from pans while hot, fill with mixture and set in oven to heat. 
Arrange upon dish and serve hot. 

Boned Chicken. — Boil a chicken in little water as possible 
until meat will fall from bones ; remove all skin, chop together 
light and dark parts; season with pepper and salt. Boil down 
liquid in which chicken was boiled, then pour it on meat; place 
in tin, wrap tightly in cloth, press with heavy weight several 
hours. When served, cut in thin slices. 

Chicken Pot-pie. — Two large chickens jointed and boiled in 
two quarts water ; add a few slices salt pork, season. When 
nearly cooked, add crust made of one quart flour, four teaspoon - 
fuls Royal Baking Powder, one saltspoonful salt; stir in stiff 
batter with water; drop into kettle while boiling; cover close and 
cook twenty-five minutes. 

Turkey Hash and Poached Eggs.— Cold fowl may be 
turned into hot breakfast dish as follows: Chop meat very fine, 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 113 

put half pint gravy into stew-pan with little piece of butter rolled 
in flour^ teaspoonful catsup, some pepper, and salt, and peel of 
half lemon, shred very fine; put in turkey or chicken, and shake 
over clear fire till thoroughly hot. Above proportions are for 
cold turkey. It may be served with two or more poached eggs. If 
there are not eggs enough to allow one for each guest, they should 
be broken with spoon and mixed with hash just before serving. 
Serve hot. 

Hints on Cooking Vegetables.— First — Have them fresh as 
possible. Summer vegetables should be cooked on same day 
they are gathered. Second — Look them over and wash well, cut- 
ting out all decayed or unripe parts. Third — Lay them when 
peeled in cold water for some time before using. Fourth — Always 
let water boil before putting them in, and continue to boil until 
done, 

Turnips. — Should be peeled, and boiled from forty minutes to 
an hour. 

Beets. — Boil from one to two hours; then put in cold water and 
slip skin off. 

Spinach. — Boil twenty minutes 

Parsnips. — Boil from twenty to thirty minutes. 

Onions. —Best boiled in two or three waters ; adding milk the 
last time. 

String Beans. — Should be boiled one hour. 

Shell Beans. — Require half hour to an hour. 

Green Corn. — Boil twenty or thirty minutes. 

Green Pe^s. —Should be boiled in little water as possible; boil 
twenty minutes. 

yl«^ara^ws.— Same as peas ; serve on toast with cream gravy. 

Winter Squa.s7i.— Cut in pieces and boil twenty to forty 
minutes in small quantity of water; when done, press water 
out, mash smooth, season with butter, pepper and salt. 

Cabbage. — Should be boiled from half hour to one hour in 
plenty of water; salt while boiling. 

Asparagus on Toast. — Cut stalks of equal length, rejecting 
woody portions and scraping the whiter parts retained. Tie in 
bunch with soft tape and cook about thirty minutes, if of fair 
size; if small, twenty minutes. Have ready six or eight slices 



1^4 THE KELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

nicely toasted bread. Dip in asparagus liquor, butter well and 
lay on hot dish. Drain the asparagus; untie and arrange on 
toast. Pepper and salt to taste. 

Food for the Sick.— Always prepare food for the sick in the 
neatest and most careful manner. In sickness the senses are un- 
usually acute, and far more susceptible to carelessness, negligence 
and mistakes in the preparation and serving of food then when in 
health. Special wants of the body show themselves in special 
cravings for certain articles of food. These should be gratified 
when possible. 

Infants' Food.— Let one quart of milk stand over night ; skim 
off the cream, and upon it pour one pint of boiling water. In one 
quart of water let one tablespoonful of oatmeal boil about two 
hours and then strain. To one gill of the cream and water add 
two tablespoonfuls of the oatmeal water. Sweeten it when given. 
This receipt comes from an experienced nurse, and has been well 
tested. 

Flaxseed Tea.— Upon an ounce of unbruised flaxseed and a 
little pulverized liquorice root pour a pint of boiling (soft or rain) 
water, and place the vessel containing these ingredients near but 
not on, the fire for four hours. Strain through linen cloth Make 
it fresh every day. An excellent drink in fever accompanied bv 
a cough. ■^ 

Mint Tea. -In an earthen vessel put a handful of the young 
shoots of mint, pour over them boiling water, cover closely and 
letit set near the fire for an hour. Other herb teas are made 
in the same way. Mint tea is useful in allaying nausea and 
vomitmg. 

Mutton Broth.-Three pounds of lean mutton, two turnips 
one carrot, two onions, one bunch parsley, one cup milk one 
tablespoonful corn starch, three quarts water. Boil meat cut into 
strips, and the vegetables, sliced, in the water two-and-a-half 
hours. The water should be reduced one-third. Strain taking 
out the meat, and rubbing the vegetables to a pulp through the 
colander. Cool, skim, season, and return to the fire. Heat stir 
in the corn starch, wet up with water, and pour into the tureen 
Add the milk boiling hot. Stir well and serve. 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



115 



Welsh Rarebit. — Select richest and best American cheese, 
the milder the better, as melting brings out strength. To make 
five rarebits, take one pound cheese, grate and put in tin or porce- 
lain lined saucepan; add ale (old is best) enough to thin the 
cheese sufficiently, say about a wineglassful to each rarebit. 
Place over fire, stir until it is melted. Have slice of toast ready 
for each rarebit (crusts trimmed) ; put a slice on each plate, and 
pour cheese enough over each piece to cover it. Serve while 
hot. 

Chicken a I'ltalienne. — Common Batter, remains of chicken, 
twelve tomatoes, one cup broth, two tablespoonf uls onion chopped, 
one tablespoonful parsley, one saltspoonful each salt, white 
pepper, Royal thyme, and Summer savory, one tablespoonful 
butter. Cut remains of chicken into small pieces ; dip into batter, 
and fry crisp in plenty of lard made hot for the purpose; serve 
with Tomato Sauce. 

Onions, Fried. — After clearing off tops and tails, slice them 
with a sharp knife ; place in pan with beef dripping or good 
butter. Stir and shake them until they begin to brown. If 
served with steak, dish and lay the onions on top of the steak; 
cover, and let stand where they will keep hot, for five minutes, 
then serve. 

Beets. — Use care in cutting off the tops and washing them 
not to break the skins, or they will bleed away their color in the 
water. Cook in boiling water one hour. Scrape, slice, salt, 
pepper and butter, and pour a few spoonfuls of boiling vinegar 
upon them after they are dished. 

Eggs and Asparagus.— Cut about two dozen stalks of 
asparagus, leaving out the hard parts, into inch lengths, and boil 
tender. Drain; pour upon them a cupful drawn butter; stir 
until hot, then turn into a bake dish. Break six eggs upon the 
top; put a bit of butter upon each; salt and pepper, and put into 
a quick oven until the eggs are " set." 

Eggs with Mushrooms. — Slice the mushrooms from cans 
into halves. Stew ten minutes in a little butter seasoned with 
pepper and salt, and a very little water. Drain, put the mush- 
rooms into a pie dish; break enough eggs to cover them over the 



116 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

lop ; pepper, salt, and scatter bits of butter over them ; strew 
with bread crumbs, and bake until the eggs are " set." Serve in 
the dish. 

Ragout of Vegetables. — Parboil one carrot, one turnip, two 
potatoes, two ears of corn, one cup of Lima beans, and ^the same 
of peas, one onion, and with them quarter pound of fat salt pork. 
Drain off the water and lay aside the pork. Slice carrots, turnips, 
potatoes and onion. Put into a saucepan with a cup of some 
good meat soup before it has been thickened. Season well ; cut 
the corn from the cob and add with the peas, beans, and a sliced 
tomato as soon as the rest are hot. Stew all together half hour. 
Stir in a great lump of butter rolled in flour. Stew five minutes, 
and serve in a deep dish. 

Baked Macaroni. — Break half pound of macaroni in pieces 
an inch long, cook in boiling water, slightly salted, twenty 
minutes. Drain, and put a layer in bottom of a greased bake 
dish, upon this some grated cheese and tiny bits of butter ; then 
more macaroni, and so on, filling dish, with grated cheese on top. 
Wet with a little milk and salt lightly. Cover and bake half 
hour ; brown, and serve in a bake dish. 

Boston Brown Bread. — Set a sponge over night with potatoes, 
or white flour, in the following proportions: 

One cup yeast; six potatoes, mashed fine with three cups of 
flour; one quart warm water; six level teaspoonfuls Cottolene 
{or, if you leave out the potatoes, one quart of warm water to 
three pints of flour); two tablespoonfuls brown sugar. 

Beat up well, and let it rise five or six hours. When light sift 
into the bread-tray — 

One quart rye-flour; two quarts Indian-meal; one tablespoon- 
ful salt; one teaspoonful soda or saleratus. 

Mix this up very soft with the risen sponge, adding warm 
water, if needed, and working in gradually half a tea-cupful of 
molasses. 

Knead well, and let it rise from six to seven hours. Then 
work over again, and divide into loaves, putting these into weP- 
greased, round, deep pans. The second rising should last an 
hour, at the end of which time bake in a Immoderate oven about 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 117 

four hours. Rapid baking will ruin it. If put in late in the day, 
let it stay in the oven all night. 

To Bake a Turkey. — Let the turkey be picked, singed, and 
■washed, and wiped dry, inside and out; joint only to the 
first joint in the legs, and cut some of the neck off if it 
is all bloody; then cut one dozen small gashes in the fleshy 
parts of the turkey — on the outside and in different parts — 
and press one whole oyster in each gash, then close the 
skin and flesh over each gash as tightly as possible; then stuff 
your turkey, leaving a little room for the stufiing to swell. 
When stuffed, sew it up with a stout cord, rub over lightly with 
flour, sprinkle a little salt and pepper on it, and put some in your 
dripping-pan; put in your turkey, baste it often with its own 
drippings; bake to a nice brown; thicken your gravy with a little 
flour and water. Be sure and keep the bottom of the dripping- 
pan covered with water or it will burn the gravy and make it 
bitter. 

Stewed Cranberries. — Wash and look over carefully. Place 
in saucepan, little more than covered with water. Cover sauce- 
pan and stew until skins are tender, adding more water if neces- 
sary; add one pound sugar to each pound of berries. Let them 
simmer ten or twelve minutes, then set away in a bowl or wide- 
mouthed crock. 

Fried Spring Chicken. — Clean and joint, then soak in salt 
water for two hours. Put in frying-pan equal parts of lard and 
butter — in all enough to cover chicken. Roll each piece in flour, 
dip in beaten egg, then roll in cracker crumbs, and drop into the 
boiling fat. Fry until browned on both sides. Serve on flat 
platter garnished with sprigs of parsley. Pour most of fat from 
frying-pan, thicken the remainder with browned flour, add to it 
cup of boiling water or milk. Serve in gravy-boat. 

Apple Sauce. — Pare, core, and slice tart apples, stew in water 
enough to cover them until they break to pieces. Beat to a pulp 
with a good lump of butter and plenty of sugar; serve cold. 



PART XIII. 

Little Secrets, Kinks and Wrinkles. 

" Cooking means the knowledge of Medea, and of Circe, and 
of Calypso, and of Helen, and of Rebekah, and of the Queen of 
Sheba. It means the knowledge of all herbs, and fruits, and 
balms, and spices, and of all that is healing and sweet in fields 
and groves and savory in meats; it means carefulness and inven- 
tiveness, and watchfulness, and willingness and readiness of ap- 
pliance; it means the economy of your grandmothers and the 
science of modern chemists; it means much tasting and no wast- 
ing; it means English thoroughness, French art, and Arabian 
hospitality; and it means in fine, that you are perfectly and 
always ladies—' loaf givers '—and as you are to see imperatively 
that everybody has something pretty to put on, so you are to see, 
yet more imperatively, that everybody has something nice to 
eat." — Buskin. 

Economy counts nowhere for so much as In the kitchen. 

For the management of household work, it is the ignorance 
of minor details and the neglect of little things that causes loss 
of time, patience and money. Women, therefore, can have no 
higher aim in life than to acquire a knowledge of the proper per- 
formance of the tasks before them. 

The information here given of the many little secrets of house- 
hold management, the Kinks and Wrinkles of Kitchen lore, will 
be of value to housekeepers seeking aid on the subject. 

For making cake, success is only possible when attention is 
given to details. Accuracy in proportioning the ingredients is of 
first importance, and everything should be weighed or measured 
before beginning, as well as the oven heated at the proper tem- 
perature. 

Butter and sugar must be creamed together; the whites and 
yolksof eggs beaten separately; the flour sifted twice, and al- 



THE HELIABLE COOK BOOK. llO 

ways measured after sifted ; the baking powder added the last 
time; currants require to be washed, dried and floured before 
using; raisins seeded, citron thinly sliced and freely floured. 

Pans and moulds should be greased with lard or cottolene in- 
stead of butter. Sweet milk is always used for mixing with 
baking powder, and makes firm, solid cake; sour milk with soda 
makes light, spongy cake. An earthen crock should be used for 
mixing cake batter, and a wooden spoon for beating; sponge 
cake requires a quick oven, cakes made with butter a moderate 
oven. A pan of cold water set in the oven will prevent cakes 
burning or baking too rapidly. 

Butter should not be melted before adding to cake. A pinch 
of salt put in the whites of eggs will make them froth more 
readily. The oven door should not be opened and closed while 
a cake is baking. If necessary to look at it, the cake should not 
be moved until well set. When a cake is done, it should be 
turned out gently on an inverted sieve, and allowed to cool with- 
out handling. 

After icing a cake, if it is set in the oven for one or two 
minutes it will be smooth and white. 

Milk makes a whiter bread than water, and bread made with 
it retains moisture longer. 

A fourth of a cake of compressed yeast is equal to two table- 
spoonsful of liquid yeast. 

Compressed yeast, when fresh, is more satisfactory in making 
bread than home-made yeast. 

To test the quality of flour, press a little in the hand; if good 
it will be light and elastic; the best grades of flour are of a 
yellowish tinge. In mixing bread use one measure of liquid to 
three of flour to make a soft dough. Equal quantities of flour 
and liquid is required for batter. If a sponge is first made and 
let rise, less flour will be needed in making bread. When set to 
rise, bread dough should be kept at an even temperature. After 
being moulded in the pan, the dough should be allowed to double 
in bulk before putting in the oven. 

In making light rolls, kneading will not be necessary if the 
dough is rolled with the rolling pin, and cut out. Rolls will be 
lighter if brushed over freely with butter, instead of shorting 



120 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

"when mixing. Rolls, buns and rusks require a quick oven and 
rapid baking. A loaf of bread when done will not burn the 
hands when turned out of the pan; the crust of a well baked loaf 
of bread should be a rich brown. 

Bread as soon as baked should be taken from the pans, and 
placed uncovered in such a position as will expose the greatest 
possible amount of the surface to the air in order to prevent the 
crust from being hard, as well as permit the rapid escape of gas 
involved in the process of fermentation. 

Stale bread makes excellent pan cakes, griddle cakes, muffins 
and puddings, and if rolled and sifted can be used instead of 
crackers for rolling oysters, croquettes, fish or other articles in 
before frying. 

Meat for making soup should always be put on in soft, cold 
water, which should simmer, not boil ; when vegetables are used, 
they should be added only in time to cook done. For soup, 
potatoes and cabbage require to be boiled in separate water be- 
fore being put in the soup; onions will impart a better flavor if 
first fried in butter. Salt should never be added to soup until it 
is done, as it hardens the water. For seasoning soups, herbs, 
spices, cayenne and black pepper are used. Lemon juice gives a 
slight piquancy, and aids in blending other flavors. 

Quenelles and force meat balls are an addition to soup, giving 
it a pleasing variety. If egg thickening is added to soup, it should 
be taken up at once, or it will curdle. Croutons or fried bread 
sippets are served with all clear soups. 

A variety of delicious cream soups are made without meat or 
stock. 

In, buying beef, select that which is a clear red color, and the 
fat straw color. AVhen meat pressed by the fingers rises up 
quickly it is prime. Good mutton is fat, hard and white; the 
best hams have a thin skin and solid fat. 

Young ducks and geese feel tender under the wings, and the 
web of the feet is supple. 

Turkeys and chickens when fresh are white and plump, with 
moist skin. 

Pork at its best must be fine grained, with both fat and lean 
white. 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 121 

For boiling fresh meat of any kind the water should be boil- 
ing hot, and suflacient to entirely cover the meat; the pot should 
be amply large, giving room for the water to entirely surround 
as well as cover the meat. If kept closely covered time and fuel 
will be saved in boiling meat. 

Meat should not be washed before cooking, as the flavor is 
injured, and the nutriment decreased. Soft water should be 
used for boiling meat. Salt should not be added to boiling meat 
until well done. Freshly butchered meat requires a longer time 
to cook than that killed for a day or two. Meat should never be 
pierced with a fork in taking up. A stout string should be tied 
around the joint when first put in the water to keep it in shape, 
and to lift it when done. 

For stews stone jars are better than saucepans. 

Rapid cooking and intense heat are injurious to meats. 

In seasoning roast or boiled meats add pepper and herbs in 
the beginning, salt when the meat is nearly done. 

Salt meats should be put on to boil in cold water. Ham to be 
served cold should be allowed to cool in the water in which it is 
boiled. The time for boihng is usually about twenty minutes to 
the pound for fresh meat, and thirty minutes to the pound for 
salt meat, the time varying, of course, according to the quality 
of the meat. For roasting meat the oven should be hot ; fifteen 
minutes for every pound is allowed for beef and mutton, twenty 
minutes to the pound for veal, lamb and pork. All meals should 
be frequently basted while baking. For broiling meat have the 
fire bright, turn often, and do not season until done. To prop- 
erly fry meat it should be immersed in boiling fat. To fry in a 
little grease is sauteing; the latter is the usual mode, and is better 
for cooking meats than frying. To thaw frozen meat, place in 
a warm room over night, or lay for a few hours in fresh spring 
water. Meat once frozen should never be thawed until ready to 
cook. To keep meat fresh in warm weather sprinkle with a little 
powdered borax, fold in a cloth and hang up in a cool cellar. 

The most suitable garnishes for meats are sliced lemon, 
pickled beets, parsley, currant, cranberry and grape jellies. 

For dressing game and poultry, they should never be washed, 
but wiped with a damp towel. Birds should be dry picked. 



123: THE KELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

White meated game should be cooked well done, dark meated 
rare. 

All varieties of game are improved in flavor and rendered 
more tender by keeping. 

The usual garnishes for game are sliced oranges, apple sauce, 
cucumber pickles, preserved barberries and currant jelly. 

All green vegetables are better cooked in soft, freshly boiled 
water, to which a little salt is added. If hard water must be 
used, half a teaspoonful of soda added to every gallon of water 
will make it soft. Potatoes should be pared sparingly; when old 
they are improved by soaking in cold water before boiling; new 
potatoes are best baked; onions should be soaked in warm salt 
water for half an hour before cooking. Turnips, carrots and 
onions should never be split lengthwise, but sliced in rounds, cut 
across the fibre. Green peas should be shelled, and cooked at 
once. If green vegetables must be used after wilting, they may 
be freshened by soaKing for an hour or two in clear, cold water. 
A little sugar added to pease, young corn, turnips and squash is 
an improvement. 

For preparing asparagus for cooking, do not break, but cut 
off the stalks. 

Sweet potatoes require a longer time to cook than white 
potatoes. When vegetables are to be cooked with salt meat, the 
meat should be cooked nearly done first, and the vegetables put 
in the water. 

Vegetables should always be thoroughly cooked, and require 
a longer time late in the season than in Summer. 

A half a pod of red pepper dropped into the kettle will 
destroy the unpleasant odor of cabbage and greens. 

Rice should be put on to cook in boiling salt water, and 
boiled rapidly until done, without stirring. 

Macaroni should be cooked in boiling salt water, drained and 
thrown in cold water for ten minutes to bleach. 

For mixing salad dressing use a silver or wooden spoon or 
fork; vegetables used for salad are, asparagus, cabbage, lettuce, 
celery, dandelion, water cress, cauliflower, potatoes, tomatoes, 
string beans, cucumbers and beets. French dressing is used for 
all vegetable or light salads. Some cooks prefer mayonnaise 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 123 

dressing for tomatoes, celery and cauliflower. Mayonnaise is 
appropriate for all meat and fish salads. Melted butter or rich 
cream may be used as a substitute for oil in making salad 
dressing if preferred. The crispness of vegetables for salads may 
be preserved by throwing them into ice water for half an hour. 
Salads should never be mixed with the dressing until ready to 
serve, and should be very cold. Hard boiled eggs cut into rings, 
sliced boiled beets, tiny radishes, celery tips, water cress and 
pickles are suitable garnishes for salads. The usual proportion 
of oil and vinegar for salad dressing is three parts of oil to one of 
vinegar. 

To ascertain the freshness of an egg before breaking it, hold 
up toward the sun ; if fresh the yolk is round, the white clear. 
The shell of a fresh egg always looks porous and dull. 

A teaspoonful of vinegar added to the water in which eggs 
are poached will make them set properly, and prevent the whites 
spreading. 

A perfectly fresh egg will require a longer time to boil than 
one kept for a day or two. 

For soft boiling eggs require from two to three minutes; for 
hard boiling ten minutes. 

For omelets, give the eggs after breaking into a bowl, twelve 
vigorous beats. 

Always use a smooth pan for cooking omelets. 

Ham, tongue, oysters or vegetables may be added to a plain 
omelet to give variety to the breakfast or luncheon table. 

A supply of stock should always be kept on hand for making 
sauces and gravies. 

For thickening sauces, the butter and flour should be well 
mixed, and cooked together before adding the liquid. All flavor- 
ing should harmonize and be perfectly blended. 

Sauces should be continually stirred while cooking. Brown 
and white sauces are the foundations of most sauces, which are 
given their individuality by various seasoning. 

Pastry should be mixed with ice water, and handled as little 
as possible. A marble slab is the best pastry board, and a glass 
rolling pin the best for rolling out. Puff paste may be kept on ice 
for two or three days. All pastry is improved by keeping on 



124 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

ice until perfectly chilled, but should never be allowed to freeze. 

To prevent the juice of fruit pies from soaking into the under 
crust, rub over with well beaten egg before filling the crust. To 
prevent the juice escaping from very juicy filling, pass an inch 
wide strip of white cotton around the pie when ready for the 
oven. 

To glaze pastry, when half baked take it out of the oven, 
brush it over with the beaten yolk of an egg and put back until 
the glaze is set. 

For making cream pies, the crust should be baked before the 
cream is put in it. 

Rhubarb if scalded for a few minutes before being put in the 
crust will require less sugar. 

Chess pie should be cut as soon as baked, when it will not 
fall. 

Patty cases should always be baked before filling. 

Boiled puddings are lighter when boiled in a cloth, room be- 
ing allowed for the pudding to swell. Boiled puddings require 
double the time needed for baking puddings. 

For freezing ices allow two quarts of coarse salt to eight 
pounds of ice. Cream should never be frozen too rapidly. Fruit 
and flavoring should never be added to cream until half frozen. 
For making water ices the sugar and water should be boiled 
until a syrup is formed. It requires a longer time to freeze water 
ices and sherbets than cream or puddings. 

Fruit jellies may be used in the place of fresh fruit juices in 
making sherbets and water ices. 

Mousses are lighter and more spongy than ice creams, and are 
moulded on ice instead of frozen. 

Sorbets should be frozen to a less solid consistence than other 
ices, and are firm enough when they can be piled in glasses. 

In making gelatine jellies the gelatine should be soaked in 
cold water for one hour before using. 

A bag through which to strain jelly is best made of very thin 
flannel. 

The fruit for jellies should be a little under rather than over 
ripe, and freshly gathered. 

Berries and all juicy fruits will require no water in cooking. 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 125 

One quart of ripe berries will yield one pint of juice. 

Jelly should be kept in a cool, dark place. 

In making preserves small fruits should be cooked slowly for 
half an hour, large fruits pared, quartered and boiled slowly in 
syrup until tender and transparent. 

The vinegar for pickles should not be boiled, but simply 
scalded. A small piece of alum added to pickles will make them 
crisp and green. 

The flavorings for pickles are onions, horseradish, garlic, 
cayenne, mace, cloves, cinnamon and ginger. 

All pickles should be put in glass or stone jars, and kept in a 
cool, dark place. 

Mangoes are best made from peaches and small melons. 

Tomatoes for catsup should be gathered in dry weather. 

Walnuts for catsup should be young and tender. 

A little powdered assafetida added to ripe tomato catsup im- 
parts a delicious flavor. 

To make good coffee use water at the first boil. If boiled 
coffee is used, one minute is the time it should be allowed to 
boil. 

Tea should be drawn, not boiled. A china tea pot is better 
than a metal one. 

Russian tea is made by putting a slice of lemon in the bottom 
of each cup and pouring boiling tea over it. 

Iced tea should be made very strong, allowed to cool after be- 
ing poured off the leaves, and poured in glasses half filled with 
shaved ice. 

Chocolate is best served with whipped cream. 

To blanch almonds, shell, throw them in boiling water, and 
let stand on the back of the range for five minuti/s, then take up, 
drain, put in cold water and rub off the skins. To salt almonds, 
blanch and spread them on a tin dish, add a teaspoonful of but- 
ter and stand in a moderate oven for ten minutes, or until a light 
brown. Peanuts may be salted in the same way. 

To make caramel for coloring soups and sauces, stir a cup full 
of granulated sugar in an iron saucepan over the fire until brown, 
add a cup full of boiling water, let boil one minute, pour into a 
bottle and cork tightly. 



126 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

To clarify sugar put the sugar and water on to boil, mix the 
white of an egg with a little water, add to the boiling syrup, let 
come to a boil and skim. 

To scald milk put it in a doable boiler or a small tin bucket, 
stand it in a deep pan of boiling water over the fire; when it be- 
gins to steam take it up. 

To clarify fat put the scraps of fat and the drippings to be 
clarified into a saucepan, set over a moderate fire until melted, 
strain into a saucepan; to every two pounds add a teacup of 
boiling water and a small pinch of soda. Stand over the fire and 
let boil until the water has evaporated and the grease is clear. 
Skim, strain and set away to cool. 

To keep berries cover with cold water, changing it every 
day. 

To keep cheese moist dip a linen cloth in wine vinegar, and 
wrap the cheese in it. 

To freshen salt fish, soak in sour milk over night. 

To make old fowls and tough meat tender add a spoonful of 
vinegar to the water in which they are boiled. 

To remove the smell of onions, cabbage and greens from 
kettles, put wood ashes in them, fill with boiling water and let 
stand until cool; or add powdered borax to the water in the place 
of ashes. 

To clean a frying pan, wipe out with a piece of soft paper ; it 
will absorb all the grease, then wash in borax water. 

A pinch of salt added to milk will make it more palatable, 
and more easily digested. A grain of salt added to cream will 
make it whip more readily. 

Doughnuts, cookies, ginger snaps, and crackers stale from long 
keeping may be freshened by heating through in a moderate 
oven, and cooling in a dry place. 

Parsley may be preserved by taking the green sprigs, washing 
them and scalding in salt water, then laying on a sieve before the 
fire to dry as quickly as possible. Put away in a tin box or can 
it will keep all winter. 

Coffee and tea keep best in glass jars. 

Doughnuts cut out some time before they are fried and 
allowed to rise will be much lighter. 



THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



127 



If sponge cake is mixed with cold water it will be yellow, if 
mixed with boiling water it will be white. 

To grate a lemon evenly begin at the end and work round it. 

Nutmegs should be grated at the blossom end. 

Celery for Winter use keeps best buried in dry sand, onions 
spread out on the floor, cabbage packed in a box or cask, stems 
upward, and covered with leaves. 

Apples will keep on shelves in the cellar, or packed in dry 
sawdust. 

To clean brass kettles scour with vinegar and salt. 

To make quick vinegar fill a jug with cider, add a little 
molasses, a liquid yeast, set uncorked near the fire; for two or 
three days draw off in bottles. 

Spices and pepper should be ground fine, put in large mouthed 
bottles and corked, for use when wanted. 

Brown sugar is best for rich puddings and all cooked sweet 
sauces. 

The fishy flavor of wild ducks, if disliked, may be destroyed 
by scalding the fowls in salt water. Some cooks skin them, as 
the flavor is in the oil next the skin. 

A little borax in the dish water will make glass, china, silver 
and all tin kitchen utensils clean and bright, and if a pinch is 
added to the water boiled in the coffee pot twice a week, it will 
sweeten and purify it. 

To chop herbs for seasoning pick the leaves from the stems; 
if wilted throw them in cold water for a few minutes, then shake 
free of moisture and chop on a small board with a very 
sharp knife. Herbs for drying should be gathered in warm, dry 
weather, picked carefully from the stems, spread on papers and 
laid in the sun until dry, then packed in paper bags and hung in 

a dry place. 

To clean dried currants for cakes and puddings sprinkle with 
flour and rub well between the hands, after which turn them 
into a colander and shake until the stems sift through; put them 
in a pan, cover with cold water, wash through it and drain, wash 
again, take from the water, spread on papers or a board and stand 
in the sun or a cool oven to dry. 



128 THE RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

To mix mustard use water which has boiled and been allowed 
to cool; hot water destroys its properties. 

To extract the juice of an onion skin a large white onion, 
grate it on a coarse grater and squeeze in a coarse cloth. 

Tough celery unfit for table use may be chopped and put in 
vinegar for seasoning salads, sauces and soups. 

To chop suet for puddings first sprinkle it freely with flour to 
prevent the pieces adhering. 

To keep milk sweet in warm weather add half a teasponful of 
grated horseradish to a pan of milk. 

When eggs are scarce and high use corn starch as a substitute 
in cakes, puddings and for all thickening purposes. A table- 
spoonful of corn starch being equal to one egg. 

Walnuts which have become dry from long keeping may be 
freshened by soaking the meats in milk over night. Hickory nuts 
blanched and pounded are an excellent substitute for almonds in 
making macaroons and cake fillings. 

If cold coffee is kept over for a second serving it should be. 
drained off the grounds, put in a pitcher or stone jar, and added 
to the fresh coffee in the coffee pot. 

The juices of all canned fruits can be used for flavoring and 
coloring desserts. 

Every housekeeper should know that one quart of sifted flour 
weighs one pound. 

Three coffee cups of sifted flour weighs the same. 

One pint of soft butter weighs one pound. 

One and a half cups of granulated sugar weighs one pound. 

Two coffee cups of powdered sugar weighs one pound. 

One table spoonful of granulated sugar weighs one ounce. 

Ten eggs weighs one pound. 

One pint of liquid contains four gills. Four teaspoonsful 
equal one tablespoon. One wineglass full equals four tablespoons, 
or two fluid ounces. One common sized tumbler holds half a pint. 
Four gills make one pint. One large tablespoonful of butter 
weighs one ounce. One pint of chopped meat weighs one pound. 
One pint of liquid weighs one pound. Three cups of corn meal 
weighs one pound. 

ELIZA R. PARKER. 



