
CfflO'S 4f 



+ DINNER 4 






♦ ♦♦♦♦♦< 



G 

E 









Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis bool< is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924001786981 



TRIMALCHIO'S DINNER 




A Roman Revel. 



TRIMALCHIO'S 
DINNER 

BY 

PETRONIUS ARBITER 

TRANSLATED FROM THE ORIGINAL LATIN WITH 

AN INTRODUCTION AND BIBLIOGRAPHICAL 

APPENDIX 

BY 

HARRY THURSTON PECK 
Illustrated 




NEW YORK 

DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY 

1913 






Copyright, 1898, 
Bv DoDD, Mead and Company. 



dSm 



John VTilson'and Soit, CAMffurDGs, U.S'.A,- 



VIRO • PERILLVSTRI 

NICOLAO • MVRRAY • BVTLER 

NON • PRAESIDI • TANTVM • SED • AMICO 

HOC • QVALECVNQVE • SIT • OPVSCVLVM 

D • D • D 

SCRIPTOR 



Table of Contents 





Page 


Preface 


• . V 


Introduction — 




I. Prose Fiction in Greece and Ro 


me . I 


II. The Novel of Petronius . . 


• • 45 


III. The Cena Trimalchionis . . 


. . 62 


Trimalchio's Dinner '. " . . . 


• • 73 


Bibliographical Appendix . . . 


. . 189 


Index to the Introduction . . 


. . 197 



Illustrations 



Page 
A Roman Revel Frontispiece 

" Beware of the Dog " (Pompeian Mosaic) 76 

Interior of Roman House 92 

Roman Cookshop 100 

Roman Barber-shop 106 

Gladiatorial Contest no 

Roman Youth 114 

Interior of Roman House 128 

Peristyle in Roman House 136 

Roman Actors 140 

Restoration of Interior of Pompeian 

House 148 

Toilet of a Roman Lady 158 

Roman Chariot Race 166 

Cistern in Roman House 172 



Preface 

IT is obvious that the ordinary canons 
of the translator's art cannot be applied 
to one who undertakes to render into Eng- 
lish a production so absolutely unique as 
the Cena Trimalchionis, This curious frag- 
ment, containing as it does the most perfect 
specimens that we have of the so-called ple- 
beian Latinity, — the idiom of the Roman 
rabble as distinct from the literary language 
of cultivated men, — is so filled with words 
and phrases that find no parallel elsewhere 
in existing Latin literature, and the conver- 
sation of the characters introduced in it is 
so coloured with argot and with slang, as to 
make anything like a literal translation quite 
impossible. I have endeavoured, therefore, 
to give in the English version a rendering 



vi Preface 

that shall faithfully reproduce the spirit of 
the original, while adhering as closely to its 
actual form of expression as its peculiarities 
allow. This is often easier than one might 
at first imagine ; for the coincidences existing 
between the slang of ancient Rome and the 
slang of modern England and America are 
at times extremely striking, — a fact which 
at some future time I hope to make the 
subject of a special monograph. But where 
there exists in the vernacular of to-day no 
exact equivalent of the Roman idiom, I 
have endeavoured to find a modern phrase 
that shall be at any rate a cognate one ; and 
this has in almost every instance been 
entirely feasible. Yet the task as a whole 
has been not unlike the task of one who 
should endeavour to turn the Chimmie 
Fadden stories into Spanish or Italian. 

Again, apart from the colloquialisms so 
abundant in the Latin, there are many 
allusions to matters and things which are 
not only peculiar to the time at which the 



Preface vii 

Cena was written, but which are very local 
and ephemeral in their nature ; and with 
these I have had to deal as best I might. 
One short passage (§ 56) has been entirely 
omitted because of the utter impossibility of 
representing in an English form the string 
of puns which it contains and which if not 
satisfactorily imitated in the English would 
leave the translation wholly void of mean- 
ing. Here and there I have modified a few 
sentences so as to soften the unnecessary 
coarseness of the original. 

The translation is based principally upon 
the Latin text as edited by Biicheler {editio 
minor, Berlin, 1895); but I have had before 
me also the text of Friedlander (Leipzig, 
1 891) as well as all the early variorum edi- 
tions. The French version by De Guerle 
and the English version by Kelley have 
likewise been compared, though with very 
little profit. 

The book is given to the public in the 
hope that it will prove of interest both for 



viii Preface 

the first-hand picture which it contains of 
some curious phases of Roman private life 
under the Empire, and for the value which 
it possesses in representing one stage in the 
evolution of realistic fiction. 

HARRY THURSTON PECK 
New York : August I, 1898. 



Preface to the Revised Edition 

OINCE this translation first appeared, the 
*^ study of Petronius has become very gen- 
eral in American colleges and universities, 
thanks to the excellent annotated edition of 
the Latin text, prepared by Professor W, E. 
Waters. Hence a demand has arisen for a 
reissue of the present work. In response 
to that demand it is now put forth with some 
essential revision. The translator hopes that 
the book will be found useful to those who 
are beginning the study — too long neglected 
— of the prose fiction of classical antiquity. 

H. T. P. 
Columbia University: October I, 1908. 



Introduction 
I 

PROSE FICTION IN GREECE 
AND ROME 

AMONG the ancient Greeks, prose fic- 
tion never attained to the importance 
which it possesses in the literature of modern 
times. The reasons which explain this fact 
are not difficult to discover. In the first 
place, the genius of the Greeks in the sphere 
of the imagination found its most natural 
expression in those forms of literature that 
are poetical. The true fiction of that re- 
markable people is to be discovered, there- 
fore, in their heroic verse, in the Homeric 
epics, in the national myths of the Cyclic 
writers, and in the great masterpieces of the 
tragic poets ; for the Greek fancy was too 



2 Introduction 

lively, too vivid, and too unrestrained, to 
confine itself to the I'mits of even the finest 
prose. In the second place, the emotional 
life of the Hellenes lacked one important 
element that has vivified and given beauty 
and significance to the fiction that is written 
for the modern world. The one unfailing 
theme around which our modern novelists 
build their imaginative work is romantic 
love, — that feeling for woman, blended of 
reverence and tenderness and affection, which 
is not a casual impulse or an incidental man- 
ifestation of temperament, but which is ex- 
tremely fundamental, in that it lies so close 
to our whole conception of domestic life and 
social stability as to be interwoven to a cer- 
tain extent with the very fabric of our 
society. But among the Greeks, to all in- 
tents and purposes, it had no existence 
whatsoever. The Greek, on that side, was 
essentially an Oriental. In his home life, 
woman was an inferior being, the manager 
of his household, the mother of his children. 



Introduction 3 

a domestic necessity, but nothing more. 
He kept her secluded from the world at 
large, and she never influenced his thought 
nor shared his serious preoccupations. The 
women who were to some extent his com- 
panions and confidantes were the hetara, and 
with these he enjoyed something of the intel- 
lectual companionship and sympathy which 
all men crave, and which in its perfec- 
tion can come to them only from congenial 
association with the other sex. Yet the 
hetara, whatever may have been their clever- 
ness, their knowledge of the world, and 
their personal charm, were still women 
whom, from the very circumstances of 
their lives, their male companions could not 
reverence and respect; and therefore, here 
again, the love that forms the staple of all 
modern fiction had no real place. Finally, 
the use of prose as a medium for imagina- 
tive work of this description was not 
seriously attempted until Greek genius had 
entered upon the period of its decline. 



4 Introduction 

and until not only taste and morals, but 
creative imagination, had equally fallen into 
the beginnings, at least, of an accelerated 
decadence. 

Therefore we find in most of the prose 
fiction that has come down to us from 
antiquity three characteristic traits, — a lack 
of variety in its themes, a lack of interest in 
its treatment, and a lack of originality in its 
form. There are exceptions to this general 
statement, and these will be exhibited here- 
after ; but their existence serves only to 
accentuate and bring into a stronger and 
more pronounced relief the truth that has 
been here enunciated. 

The origin of prose fiction is to be 
sought in the history of the Fable, and the 
Fable grows out of a desire to explain the 
phenomena of nature and to give to the ex- 
planation a concrete form. It represents 
also a childish love of the picturesque that 
endows rocks and stones and trees with life, 
and gives the power of speech to animals ; 



Introduction 5 

and it also mirrors forth a fondness for alle- 
gory and apologue whereby some truth, 
some fact, is photographed upon the 
memory through the fascinating medium of 
a story. Pure fiction, therefore, as distinct 
from religious and semi-religious myth, first 
took on a definite shape in the Beast Fable, 
which is the one form of story to be found 
in every quarter of the earth, at every period 
of history, and in the lore of every race, 
from Egypt to the South Pacific, and from 
the savage Indian of our Western plains to 
the still more savage African of the Bantu 
tribes. 

It is probable that it is from Asia that 
the Greeks and Romans first derived their 
models for this form of literature, and that 
it was the Hindus who first evolved the 
very famous stories which bear the name of 
Bibpai, and which in after times ^sop, 
Babrius, and Phaedrus made so popular in 
Europe. 

It is not alone, however, the Beast Fable 



6 Introduction 

that arose out of humanity's ignorance in 
the days of its childhood. A swarm of 
superstitions that are as universal as human 
life itself all found their utterance in the 
folk-lore of Greece and Rome. Man in the 
world's first centuries, before he was gathered 
into tribes and clans, and before he had begun 
to feel the social instinct strong upon him, 
lived in an infinite solitude amid the unbroken 
forest and illimitable desert, with only two 
or three companions at the most, his mate 
some savage woman whom he had seized and 
carried off and made his captive, and about 
him his fierce young brood, who threaded with 
him the lairs of beasts in the dark jungles of 
the forest. In this profound loneliness, his 
unfettered imagination — the imagination of 
a child — peopled the desert with a myriad 
living creatures. In the whisper of the wind 
among the leaves at dead of night, he heard 
the sibilant voices of beings who dwelt in 
the heart of the forest trees. In the half- 
seen shadows moving to and fro in the 



Introduction 7 

dimly lighted glades, he saw strange creatures 
who evaded him at his approach. His 
dreams at night were as real to him as what 
he saw by day, for he had not learned as yet to 
distinguish between subjective and objective 
happenings. In sleep there came to him 
the forms of those companions who had died ; 
and these visions convinced him that death 
is but another form of sleep, and does not 
really put an end to all. When the fever 
of the jungle laid its hot hand upon him, and 
he tossed about upon his bed of leaves in 
the delirium of disease, and strange shapes 
and monstrous images flitted before his sight 
and brooded over him, he remembered them 
as real, and on recovering told his vision to 
his unquestioning fellows. Thus arose the 
primitive belief in wood nymphs and fountain 
goddesses, in fauns and satyrs, in ghosts and 
fairies, in demons and vampires. It is a 
subject for infinite regret that the classic 
literatures, as we possess them now, are almost 
wholly silent here, and give us only the most 



8 Introduction 

tantalising half glimpses and vanishing sug- 
gestions of the curious and fascinating nature- 
myths of the common people, and of the 
stories in which these myths were handed 
down. The writers whose works we now 
possess, the makers of literature in its con- 
ventional meaning, despised these legends of 
the ignorant, these old wives' tales and 
peasant lore ; so that it is only here and there 
that we detect a trace of what has been 
irrevocably lost. Such are the stories of the 
Nymphs, as for instance that which tells of 
the love of Echo for Narcissus, and the 
legend of Hylas and the Naiads. Such again 
is the exquisite narrative of Cupid and Psyche 
which, as preserved in Apuleius, still begins 
with the good old formula, " Once upon a 
time in a certain city there lived a king and 
queen." But these, as we have them now, 
are very far from being fairy-stories of the 
primitive sort. They are too artistic, too 
highly coloured, and too artificial ; and they 
serve only to give us a clue to the existence 



Introduction 9 

of the wonder- tale in remote antiquity. 
Our modern conception of a fairy seems to 
contain a blending of two ancient ideas that 
are quite distinct, — that of the Nymphs, and 
that of the Fates, to which fact the word 
" fairy " (or more correctly " fay") bears wit- 
ness in its derivation, through the French 
fee., from the Low Latin fata and the classical 
fatum. 

The household fairy of the Romans was 
the Lar, who watched over the home as did 
the English Robin Goodfellow, but more 
especially the exterior of the home, as the 
Penates guarded the interior. The belief 
in the Lares has a close connection with 
ancestor-worship, since the Lares were the 
souls of the ancestors of the family hovering 
about the family abode with friendly pur- 
pose. The converse of the Lar is the Larva, 
the ancient prototype of our modern nursery 
bugaboo, — a malignant spirit who prowled 
about in some hideous form, such as that of 
a skeleton, to strike with madness all living 



lo Introduction 

persons who gazed upon him. Identified 
with the Larvae were the Lemures, whom in 
May of each year the head of every house- 
hold propitiated by going forth at midnight 
to wash his hands three times in fresh spring 
water, after which, taking three black beans 
into his mouth, he pronounced a formula 
and cast the beans upon the ground for the 
Lemures to gather up. The ceremony was 
ended by beating together brazen vessels, and 
crying out nine times an exorcism to the 
spectres, the whole, bearing a striking resem- 
blance to the rites now practised by the 
Chinese at the burial of their dead. Still 
another form of elf or fairy was the Incubo, 
an inhabitant of the depths of the earth, 
where it lived among the veins of gold and 
silver in the heart of great mountains, its 
abode being supported by columns of jasper 
and glittering with the precious metals. The 
Incubo is the mythological ancestor of the 
Scandinavian Black Fairy, of the German 
Kobold, and of the Irish Leprechaun. 



Introduction 1 1 

Little allusion is made to it in ancient liter- 
ature, but from a passage in Petronius there 
seems to have been a story that if one could 
steal the hat of an Incubo, the treasure over 
which he watched could easily be found ; and 
this myth finds a modern parallel in the 
German story of John Dietrich which Miss 
Mulock has made familiar to the children of 
America and England. 

Belonging to the purely horrible are the 
legends of Lamia, the traditional bugbear of 
the nursery, who was invoked to terrify dis- 
obedient children. Some remnants of these 
tales survive, and are preserved by Diodorus 
Siculus, Suidas, Plutarch, Strabo, and the 
scholiast on Aristophanes. The popular 
account makes her to have been a Libyan 
princess whose beauty was so great as to 
attract the love of Zeus himself, whereupon 
Here destroyed her children. Frenzied by 
this loss, she became transformed into a cruel 
demon who prowled about at night to rob 
mothers of their children, whose blood she 



1 2 Introduction 

sucked. She ceased to be a living woman, 
and became a spectre of hideously distorted 
face, and having also the power of taking out 
her eyes and then replacing them. This 
tale or series of tales finds a gradual develop- 
ment in a second stage of myth in which the 
Lamiae are spoken of in the plural, and are 
depicted as phantoms in the shape of women 
of extraordinary beauty who lure young men 
into their abodes in order to drink their 
blood and consume their flesh. These 
Lamiae are evidently the prototypes of the 
vampires of Slavonic and German folk-lore ; 
and they appear also in Greek legends under 
other names, such as Empusa, the spectre 
with one brazen leg and the hoof of an ass, 
and as Mormolyce, another nursery bugbear. 
The Ghost Story, as might be expected, is 
one that has left its traces more perceptibly 
upon written literature. Ghosts flit through 
both Greek and Rome prose and verse, 
appearing as early as Homer and Herodotus. 
In fact the eleventh book of the Odyssey is 



Introduction 1 3 

filled with spectral forms, so that the Alex- 
andrian commentators gave to it the title 
Nekyia or " Invocation of Ghosts." The 
Greek dramatists allude continually to the 
appearance of departed spirits, and Latin 
literature is no less permeated by the same 
general belief Attius, in a striking passage, 
represents a ghost as rising from the shades 
whence, as he says, " Spectres appear amid 
dense gloom, with unreal blood, mere 
shadows of those who have died." One of the 
best of the plays of Plautus gets its name 
{Mostellarid) from the ghost of a murdered 
man that is described in it as haunting a 
house. In the sixth book of the jEneid 
many spirits pass in review before ^neas. 
Roman history also has its legends of the 
dead returning, such as that of the apparition 
which appeared at midnight to Brutus in his 
tent and warned him of his approaching death 
at Philippi, — a story which possibly suggested 
to Sir Walter Scott the impressive episode 
of the Bodach Glas in Waverley. In Latin 



14 Introduction 

prose, however, the best specimen of the Ghost 
Story quite simple and unadorned is that 
which is given by the Younger Pliny in one 
of his letters to a friend, which contains all 
the features of the most modern ghost tale, 
and has a hundred parallels in modern litera- 
ture, the closest perhaps being found in Wash- 
ington Irving's story oi Dolph Heyliger. 

All these legends, tales, myths, and records 
of superstition, however, are the precursors 
and accompaniments of prose fiction rather 
than a department of it. They are, in their 
primitive form, not conscious fiction at all, 
being told in good faith by those who 
implicitly believed them ; nor did they 
appear as episodes in pure fiction until 
man had become sophisticated by experi- 
ence. But this sophistication is found only 
after fiction in its literary sense has become 
definitely recognised as a department of 
letters. We must, therefore, look elsewhere 
than to the fireside tale of the peasant and 
the strange imaginings of the forester for 



Introduction 1 5 

the true source of prose fiction in ancient 
literature. 

Among the Greeks, the oldest form of 
literary production that we have remaining 
is the epic, and the epic is in poetry the 
representative of the historical romance in 
prose. But of course the Iliad and the 
Odyssey, so far from giving us a primitive 
type of poetry, in reality represent the epic 
in its last perfection, — the edition definitive 
of the rhapsode's art, elaborated by centuries 
of experiment and written in an artificial 
language evolved from all the dialects of 
Greece, and wrought into a marvel of elastic- 
ity, expressiveness, and sonorous power. 
The Homeric epic, as we have it, is in 
reality a callida iunctura, a clever dovetailing 
of brilliant episodes. There are the episodes 
of Achilles and Briseis, of Ares and Aphro- 
dite,' of Circe and Odysseus, and a hundred 
others. It is, in fact, in all these episodes, 
rather than in the epic as a whole, that we 
are to see a suggestion at least of the earliest 



1 6 Introduction 

efforts of conscious fiction, which began 
where it seems likely to end, in the Short 
Story. 

A still closer approach to the archetype 
can be found in Herodotus, with whom the 
history of Greek prose begins, and who, 
himself a born story-teller, sprinkles his 
pages with the anecdotes that he gathered 
in his travels. The story of Candaules, who 
showed his wife naked to the guardsman 
Gyges, of Arion and the Dolphin, of 
Rhampsinitus and the Robber, of Poly- 
crates and the Ring, and of Pheron's remark- 
able recovery of his sight, — these are all 
instances of the Short Story in its early 
form, extremely brief, simply told, with , a 
naiveti like that of Mandeville or Defoe, 
and each embodying a single incident. 

One cannot doubt that it was from Syria 
and Persia that the Greeks received their 
earliest models of literary fiction. It is one 
more debt to be recorded in favour of the 
East, the mysterious East which, if not the 



Introduction 17 

cradle of the human race, was, at any rate, 
the birthplace of philosophy, of history, of 
poetry, and of art. All these the Greeks of 
Europe owed to Asia through their brethren 
of Asia Minor, whose close contact with the 
purely Oriental peoples proved at once a 
stimulus and an intellectual inspiration. 
The East has always been the home of 
story-telling, and there the art of fiction 
first became a distinct profession. 

That this is true — that the suggestion 
when it came to Greece came from without 
rather than from within — is reasonably to be 
inferred from the fact that the earliest writers 
of Greek romances were not Greeks of 
Greece, but of the Orient. Of the four 
Xenophons whose names belong to the 
history of ancient fiction, one was a native 
of Antioch, one of Ephesus, and one of 
Cyprus. Achilles Tatius and Severus were 
Alexandrians. Heliodorus wrote at Emesa 
in Syria, Chariton and Longus at Aphro- 
disias in Caria, Parthenius at Nicasa in 



1 8 Introduction 

Bithynia, Dio Chrysostomus at Prusias in 
Bithynia, Lucian at Samosata in Syria, 
lamblichus at Babylon, Clearchus at Soli. 
Theodorus Prodromus was an Asiatic, and 
Eumathius an Egyptian. Hellas Proper, 
then, has scarcely anything in common with 
her romancers. She lends to them her 
language, but most of them belong to her 
neither in birth, nor in education, nor in 
manners. 

Even more striking is the internal evi- 
dence of the romances themselves. On 
every page, in every plot, in the whole spirit 
and sentiment of the stories, there are unmis- 
takable traces of Orientalism. The adven- 
tures of lovers in undefined and unknown 
countries, the surfeit of marvels, the strange 
and improbable happenings, the magical 
rites, the metamorphoses of men into beasts, 
— all these savour of the East, and claim 
kinship with the Thousand and One Nights 
rather than with the simpler and more con- 
gruous narratives of the literature that we 



Introduction 19 

know to be truly Greek. The style is 
equally significant, being florid, highly 
wrought, and loaded with an excess of orna- 
ment, — in short, bearing all the marks of 
that diction which the Greeks and Romans 
both characterised as Asiatic, and distin- 
guished from the more reserved, more terse, 
and much more manly style of Athens and 
Bceotia. Asiatic, too, is the languorous 
movement and nervelessness of these curious 
novels. In reading them one breathes an 
atmosphere heavy with attar of roses and the 
scent of pastilles, an atmosphere in which 
sensuality thrives and virility expires. All 
are as unlike the rapid, vigorous, and bracing 
movement of what the Greeks of Greece 
wrote down, as the soft skies and perfumed 
air of Asia Minor are unlike the gray clouds 
and driving snows of Thrace, — as Miletus 
is unlike Marathon. 

To the Oriental example, therefore, must 
be ascribed the first known appearance of 
pure prose fiction in Greek literature in the 



20 Introduction 

so-called Milesian Tales of Aristides and 
otherSj famous in antiquity and the fore- 
runner of a swarm of similar productions in 
mediaeval and modern times. The date at 
which they were written is uncertain, though 
it was unquestionably previous to the second 
century b. c. ; nor is their form now posi - 
tively known beyond the fact that they were 
in prose, and that they were brief, witty, and 
indecent. The choice of subjects in these 
early novelettes can be seen by examining the 
existing collection of Parthenius of Nicaea, 
who, though a Greek, lived at Rome in the 
first century b. c, where he taught his 
native language. Among his pupils was 
the poet Vergil, and the poem entitled More- 
turn, which is often ascribed to Vergil, is a 
translation into Latin of a Greek original 
by Parthenius, as may be also the pseudo- 
Vergilian poem entitled Ciris. Parthenius, 
in fact, was very popular among the educated 
Romans, so much so that in the following 
century the Emperor Tiberius set up his bust 



Introduction 2 1 

in the imperial library, and himself con- 
descended to write imitations of his verse. 
From Parthenius there has come down to us 
a curious little book with the title Erotic 
Experiences, dedicated by the author to the 
Latin man of letters, Cornelius Gallus, well 
known as the friend of Vergil, who has 
handed down to us in his Tenth Eclogue the 
memory of an unfortunate love-affair of 
Gallus. The Erotic Experiences is a collec- 
tion in prose of thirty-six skeleton stories, or 
hints for stories, gathered by Parthenius from 
various sources, and offered to Gallus as 
suggestions for poetical treatment by him. 
They are extremely brief, mere sketches, 
often containing little more than a hint, and 
may be compared with the fragmentary 
suggestions and hastily gathered impressions 
which Southey and Dickens also, made with 
the purpose of developing them at some 
future time. The chief interest of the col- 
lection of Parthenius lies in the fact that the 
plots given by him are all derived from 



2 2 Introduction 

earlier writers, whose names he, in nearly 
every instance, has prefixed to his synopsis ; 
and in the insight that we thus have given 
to us of the subjects usually chosen by the 
writers of the Milesian Tales. Many are 
taken from the mythologists, and a cer- 
tain number of them are studies in the 
abnormal manifestations of sexual love, 
reminding one in a way of the imaginings 
of Catulle Mendes. 

To show how bald and bare these outline 
stories are, the literal translation of a single 
one is here given. It was drawn by Parthe- 
nius from Philetas, and is entitled Polymela. 

" Odysseus, in his wanderings about Sicily and 
the Tyrrhenian and Sicilian Seas, came to the 
court of iEolus in the island of Meligunis. ^olus, 
out of respect to his guest's reputation for wisdom, 
made much of him, questioning him about the 
downfall of Troy and how, on the return of the 
Greeks from Troy, their ships had been scattered. 
In fact, in his hospitable spirit, he detained him for 
a long time, and Odysseus found his stay extremely 
pleasant ; since Polymela, a daughter of iEolus, hav- 



Introduction 23 

ing fallen in love with him carried on with him a 
secret amour. When, however, Odysseus, having 
found a favourable breeze, sailed away, the girl was 
caught weeping bitterly over some Trojan keep- 
sakes, and thus exposed her secret. Then iSolus 
cursed the absent Odysseus, and cast about for 
some way to punish Polymela. As his brother 
Diores had fallen in love with her and asked for 
her in marriage, the father was persuaded to give 
Polymela to him as his bride." 

This is bare enough in all conscience, yet 
one can readily discern how effectively the 
hints here given could be worked up by a 
sympathetic imagination, and how readily 
the salient points are to be seen, — the subtle 
Odysseus coming with all the prestige of 
novelty to the simple island girl, a second 
Princess of Thule, and with all the romance 
of his Trojan exploits about him; his easy 
conquest of the trustful ignorance of 
Polymela; his careless departure; the ex- 
posure of her secret in a burst of grief; the 
anger of the father ; the necessity for a hasty 
marriage after the fashion of Viviette in 



24 Introduction 

Hardy's 'Two on a Tower ; the unsuspecting 
ardour of Diores ; the bride carrying her 
guilty secret to her new home, — it is all 
excellent material, and abounds in very 
strong situations. 

Parthenius gives us only the faintest clue to 
the nature of the subjects dealt with in the 
Milesian Tales. If we wish to get a good 
notion of the general manner of treatment 
employed by their writers, no better illus- 
tration can be found than the extremely 
famous " Story of the Ephesian Matron," 
which is told by one of the characters in the 
novel of Petronius. No anecdote of the kind 
has ever had so great a vogue as this, whose 
antiquity and universality are remarkable, 
and which has been handed down and imi- 
tated for century after century. Huet says 
that it exists in the oldest Chinese literature ; 
it was certainly very popular in classical 
times. After Petronius, Apuleius para- 
phrased it in his Golden Ass, though at the 
expense of the piquant crispness of the 



Introduction 25 

Petronian version. It was the first part of 
Petronius to be made known in the Middle 
Ages, being translated into Old French by 
the priest Hebert about the year 1200. It 
forms the basis of one of the fabliaux entitled 
La Femme ^i se Fist Putain sur la Fosse de 
son Mart. It is cited by John of Salisbury. 
La Fontaine has expanded it into one of his 
most successful poems, eliminating the 
gruesome features of the original. Voltaire 
has made it the basis of his celebrated story 
Zadig. It is even quoted by so grave a 
divine as Jeremy Taylor in his Rule and 
Exercise of Holy Dying, where it forms, incon- 
gruously enough, a part of the fifth chapter 
on the proper way of treating the dead. As 
this story is not contained in the portion of 
Petronius translated in the present volume, 
it may be given here by way of illustration. 

" There lived at Ephesus a certain lady in such 
high repute for her chastity, that women, even 
those of the neighbouring countries, used to come 
to see her as a miracle. When her husband was 



2 6 Introduction 

carried to the grave, she was not content to follow 
the corpse, after the usual custom, with dishevelled 
hair, and beating her bosom in presence of all 
beholders ; but accompanied the dear departed even 
to his last home ; and when his body had been 
laid in the sepulchre in the Greek manner, she 
made herself its guardian, and wept over it both 
night and day. While she was thus afflicting her- 
self, and threatening her own death by starvation, 
neither her parents nor her relations could dissuade 
her from her purpose ; even the magistrates failed 
in the same attempt ; and all Ephesus bewailed 
this exemplary and incomparable woman, who was 
now dragging through the fifth day without tasting 
food. 

" A faithful maid sat with the sorrowing woman, 
mingled her tears with those of her mistress, and, 
when occasion required, trimmed a lamp that was 
burning in the tomb. Nothing else was talked of 
throughout the city, and all men declared that never 
had there before been seen so shining an example 
of chastity and affection. 

" It happened just then, that the governor of the 
province had ordered certain robbers to be crucified 
near the dismal vault where the lady was weeping 
over her newly-buried husband. On the following 
night, the sentinel who watched the crosses lest 



Introduction 27 

the bodies should be stolen for burial, seeing a light 
glimmering among the tombs, and hearing the 
moans of some one in sorrow, was led by the 
curiosity common to all mankind to discover who 
or what it might be. He descended, therefore, into 
the tomb, where seeing a very beautiful woman, he 
stood amazed at first as though he had beheld some 
unearthly apparition; but presently observing the 
corpse, the lady's tears, and her face torn by her 
nails, he rightly concluded that she could not 
support the yearning sense of her recent loss. 
Upon this he went back, carried his humble meal 
into the tomb, and began to implore her to desist 
from superfluous sorrow and from rending her 
bosom with unavailing sobs ; telling her that death 
was a necessary end, that the grave was the home 
of all, and repeating all the arguments that are 
usually employed to soothe an anguished soul. 
But she, shocked by such unlooked-for attempts to 
console her, began to beat her breast with redoubled 
violence, to tear her hair, and to strew it over the 
dead body. 

" The soldier, however, did not desist, but with 
the same prayers endeavoured to prevail on her to 
take some nourishment, till at last the servant, 
seduced, no doubt, by the odour of the wine, con- 
fessed her defeat by holding out her hand to the 



2 8 Introduction 

charitable consoler, and, after refreshing herself 
with food and drink, began herself to combat the 
obstinacy of her mistress. ' What possible good 
will it do you,' she said, ' to starve yourself in this 
way, to bury yourself alive, and to draw your last 
breath before the Fates demand it ? Do you think 
that such things give pleasure to the dead ? Will 
you not cast off this whim of our sex, and enjoy 
the good things of this world whUe you can ? The 
very corpse that lies before you ought to warn you 
to make the most of life.' 

" No one ever listens reluctantly when he is 
pressed to take food or to live. The lady, ex- 
hausted by an abstinence of several days, suffered 
her obstinacy to be overcome, and satisfied her 
hunger with no less eagerness than the maid who 
had been the first to yield. We all know to what 
temptations mortal flesh is exposed after a hearty 
meal. The very same arguments which the 
soldier had used to combat her despair he now 
employed against her chastity. The young man, 
thought this virtuous lady, is neither ill-looking 
nor lacking in address ; and the maid also spoke 
in his behalf. 

" In a word, the lady observed the same absti- 
nence in this respect as in the other, and the 
gallant soldier was a second time successful in his 



Introduction 29 

persuasions. They passed not only that first 
evening together, but the next night also and the 
next night after that, the doors of the tomb being 
of course carefully closed, so that if any one, friend 
or stranger, should come thither, he would conclude 
that this most virtuous of wives had died over the 
body of her husband. Meanwhile the soldier, 
delighted with the beauty of his mistress and with 
the mystery of the intrigue, bought for her all the 
good things his means could procure, and, as soon 
as night came, carried them into the tomb. 

" In the mean time, the relatives of one of the 
malefactors, observing the carelessness of the guard, 
carried ofF the body during the night and buried it. 
On the next day, when the circumvented soldier 
saw one of the crosses without a body, he was dis- 
mayed at the consequences to himself; telling her 
that he would not await the sentence of the judge, 
but that his own sword should punish his negli- 
gence, would she only afford him sepulture, and 
join the lover to the husband in that fatal place. 

" ' Nay,' replied the no less compassionate than 
chaste matron, ' the gods forbid that I should have 
before my eyes at the same time the dead bodies 
of the two men who were most dear to me ! I 
will rather hang up the dead than be the death of 
the living.' And in accordance with these senti- 



30 Introduction 

ments, she ordered the corpse of her husband to 
be taken out of its coffin and affixed to the vacant 
cross. The soldier availed himself of the expe- 
dient suggested by the ingenious lady ; and the next 
day every one wondered how it was that the dead 
man had found his way to the cross 1 " 

In emulation of Aristides and his school, 
there sprang up a host of story-writers who 
gave to their collections the titles Ephesian, 
Babylonian, Cyprian, Egyptian, Sybaritic, 
Naxian, Pallenian, Lydian, Trojan, and 
Bithynian Tales, many of the writers of 
which are among those quoted by Parthe- 
nius. These stories do not seem to have 
differed, except in name, from those of 
Miletus ; and they find their descendants 
and literary parallels in such products of 
pornographic ingenuity as the Cent Nouvelles 
Nouvelles of Louis XI. of France and the 
Contes DrMatiques of Honore de Balzac. 
The same themes were repeated again and 
again with an infinity of variations in detail 
which did not, however, preserve them from 



Introduction 3 1 

becoming monotonous when read consecu- 
tively ; and if one continues his study of 
them it is rather because of their socio- 
logical interest, as giving a realistic picture 
of the morals and manners of the Asiatic 
Greeks, than for their literary value. Their 
subjects had a very limited range. There 
appeared over and over again the mistress 
who exploits her lover, the lover who cheats 
his mistress, husbands who sell the favours 
of their wives, fathers who abandon their 
children, — slaves, parasites, jockeys, actors, 
— a kaleidoscopic whirl of sensual life and 
sordid cynicism, indicative of the decay of 
the sterner virtues of the older Greeks, who, 
though they worshipped beauty, coupled it 
always in their thoughts with strength and 
vigour. Yet it need not be supposed that 
the pictures given in the Milesian Tales 
were so sweepingly indicative of wholesale 
corruption as might at first appear to be the 
case. The Greeks, even to the last, kept 
their home life as a thing apart, — a thing not 



3 2 Introduction 

only secluded from the world at large, but 
also, to a great extent, from the pages of 
literature. Behind the veiled doors of the 
gynaceum the painter of contemporary char- 
acter did not venture to intrude ; and pub- 
lic sentiment would not have tolerated these 
scandalous stories if told about the homes 
and households of the free Greeks. Hence 
it is that the bedraggled heroes and heroines 
of the Milesian Tales were either mythical 
personages of legend and story, or else for- 
eigners, slave girls and courtesans, freedmen 
and freedwomen, or individuals of still 
humbler station. The public for whom the 
tales were written was also a very special 
public, — a public such as that for which 
Maupassant and Mendes have written in 
our own time, — a public of libertines and 
kept-women, whose jaded senses found a 
stimulus only in the most subtle refinements 
of depravity. 

In the third and fourth centuries b. c. 
Greece came into definite and permanent 



Introduction 33 

contact with a larger world than it had re- 
cognised before. The wars with Persia led 
men to shake off something of the old Hel- 
lenic exclusiveness which had made them 
so self-centred and so indifferent to ex- 
traneous influence. The brilliant victories 
at Marathon and Salamis and Plataea, and, 
later, the conquering march of Alexander the 
Great stirred all imaginations. Like Rome 
in the time of the Punic Wars, and like 
England in the days of Elizabeth, Greece 
tasted of the inspiration that comes from 
battle and foreign conquest; and this new 
spirit in Greece, as in Rome and in England, 
finds a distinct reflection in its later litera- 
ture. There was something in the air that 
stirred men's minds, a growing fondness for 
adventure, for exploration, for discovery, and 
hence we find the development at this time 
of a new tendency in the history of prose 
fiction, which now begins to witness the 
evolution of the historical romance and the 
novel of adventure. Instances of the former 
3 



34 Introduction 

are to be seen in the Atlantis of Plato and 
the Cyroftedia of Xenophon which served as 
models in modern times for the Utopia of 
Sir Thomas More and the New Atlantis of 
Francis Bacon. In the Cyropadia we find 
the first romantic love-story that can be dis- 
covered in the existing remains of Greek 
literature ; yet these works of Plato and of 
Xenophon are chiefly political in their in- 
terest and have little place in any purely 
literary category. 

The romance of adventure finds an illus- 
tration in the novel written by one Antonius 
Diogenes and entitled The Marvels beyond 
Thule. It tells of the adventures of a young 
Arcadian, Dinias, whose love for a Tyrian 
girl, Dercyllis, furnishes a slender plot upon 
which are strung together a series of short 
stories or episodes which have little connec- 
tion with each other, but which afford the 
author an opportunity to display his lively 
imagination and his mastery of the im- 
probable; for the book is filled with the 



Introduction 3 5 

niost extravagant incidents, one of which, a 
journey to the moon, recalls the somewhat 
similar fancy embodied in the popular story 
written by Jules Verne. More homoge- 
neous and less wildly improbable are the 
later romances by Lucius of Patrae, of un- 
certain date, called Metamorphoses ; by lam- 
blichus, a Syrian who wrote the story called 
Babylonica, which has to do with the adven- 
tures of a married couple, Sinonis and Rho- 
danes, and contains a double plot; and by 
Xenophon of Ephesus, whose novel Ephes- 
iaca is the ultimate source of Romeo and 
Juliet. Most famous, however, of all the 
novels of this class is the Mthiopica written 
by Heliodorus, the Christian bishop of 
Emesa in the fourth century a. d. This is 
usually considered the very best novel of 
adventure produced by the ancient Greeks. 
It is in ten books, and relates the adventures 
of two lovers, Theagenes and Chariclea. It 
has some merit because of its regular con- 
struction, and several of its episodes are, 



36 Introduction 

when read apart from the context, of con- 
siderable interest ; while at the very outset 
of the book there is one rather curious 
passage which has to do with the influence 
of pre-natal conditions upon the unborn 
child. This novel was very popular in its 
own time, and on the revival of classical 
learning at the end of the Middle Ages it 
came once more into vogue, so that it is said 
to have been the favourite reading of the 
French dramatist, Racine, All these stories, 
however, taken as a whole, are greatly lack- 
ing in intrinsic worth. They show abso- 
lutely no conception of character-drawing, 
the personages introduced are mere dummies, 
and the incidents themselves are of a baldly 
conventional . type, giving us an endless 
round of captures and escapes, of adventures 
with robbers and pirates, and of battles and 
single combats, until one wearies of the 
poverty of invention which the writers 
manifest. 

More purely romantic are the story by 



Introduction 37 

Achilles Tatius of Alexandria, entitled The 
Loves of Leucippe and Clitophon, the Chareas 
and Callirrhoe, by Chariton of Aphrodisias, 
and the novelette called Apollonius Tyrius, of 
which the author is unknown and the Greek 
original lost. It survives, however, in a 
Latin version which was much read during 
the Middle Ages and suggested a portion of 
Gower's Confessio Amantis and perhaps the 
Shakespearian play Pericles, Prince of Tyre. 
Some of the incidents recorded in it give us 
curious pictures of low life, and thus possess 
a genuine sociological interest. Much later 
in date and distinctly inferior in every way 
are two Greek novels, one by Theodorus 
Prodromus of Constantinople, and the other 
an imitation of this by Nicetas Eugenianus, 
both of them written in doggerel verse. 
Last of all, is the story which relates the 
adventures of Hysmine and Hysminias, 
which some have regarded as being the origi- 
nal source of the story of Don Juan. 

The novel of character, or perhaps one 



38 Introduction 

might better say the subjective novel, has 
few representatives in the history of Greek 
fiction. It is found, however, in the work 
of Alciphron, a Greek sophist who flourished 
in the second century a. d. From him 
we have left one hundred and eighteen 
imaginary epistles, which give us most val- 
uable pictures of Bohemian life at Athens. 
They are among the very best things that 
can be found in the history of later Greek 
literature, being extremely vivacious and 
entertaining, and showing a very real mas- 
tery and understanding of character. The 
glimpses which they afford of both middle- 
class life and of the artistic world are so good 
as to make it remarkable that they have 
never yet been translated into English. To 
the same class of writings belong two books 
of erotic letters by Aristaenetus, composed in 
a cynical spirit that suggests some of the 
touches to be found in the Lettres de Femmes 
of Marcel Prevost. By Theophilus of 
Simocatta, who flourished in the seventh 



Introduction 39 

century a. d., are eighty-five epistles that 
have some epigrammatic merit, but are of 
little value as literature. 

The novel of pastoral life is represented 
in Greek by the very famous romance called 
Daphnis and Chloe which is one of the most 
original and interesting stories in ancient 
literature. It is usually ascribed to one 
Longus, though this is probably not the 
author's name, and its theme is the uncon- 
scious growth of the sexual instinct in a 
boy and a girl who have been brought up 
together from their earliest infancy in a state 
of perfect innocence. The working out of 
this motive gives to the book a very unique 
and unusual character, and it has also a 
certain mastery of description as applied to 
natural scenery, that is sometimes both beau- 
tiful and striking, in that the author seems 
to recognise a sort of subtle relation between 
the external environment of man and the 
incidents of his life ; and this is occasionally 
developed in a manner that suggests one of 



40 Introduction 

the theories everywhere to be found illus- 
trated in the novels of Emile Zola. The 
book has been frequently translated into most 
of the modern languages, and has been obvi- 
ously imitated in Bernardin de St. Pierre's 
Paul et Virginie, by Allan Ramsay in his 
Gentle Shepherd, and by many other less 
known modern writers. 

Roman fiction, like nearly all of Roman 
literature, sprang directly from an imitation 
of the Greek, and came into existence during 
the first century b. c, when a number of 
the literary men at Rome began writing 
short stories after the fashion of the Milesian 
Tales. The best known of these imitators 
was Sisenna, whose writings, however, have 
not been preserved, nor have we any other 
specimens of the Short Story as composed 
in Latin at this period. There are, indeed, 
still surviving only two examples of gen- 
uine prose fiction written in the Latin lan- 
guage, which can be ascribed to the classical 
and semi-classical periods. These are the 



Introduction 4 1 

Satira of Petronius Arbiter, and the Meta- 
morphoses (sometimes called the The Golden 
Ass) of Apuleius. They are, however, far 
superior to anything of the kind preserved 
to us in Greek. The Satira, though incom- 
plete, is in its way one of the greatest novels 
of all time, and is remarkable for its modern 
tone, its unsparing realism, its subtle touches 
of character, its wit, and its vivid pictures of 
life in the Roman provincial towns, no less 
than for the point and elegance of its style. 
The novel of Apuleius, which is in eleven 
books, was drawn by its author from the 
Metamorphoses of Lucius of Patrae already 
mentioned, and perhaps from a similar story 
narrated by Lucian, who was a contemporary 
of Apuleius. The Metamorphoses is a rather 
remarkable book. It tells the story of one 
Lucius who accidentally swallowed a magic 
potion which turned him into an ass, in 
which shape he passed through a series of 
curious and amusing adventures until he 
finally regained his natural form. The 



42 Introduction 

author of this book was an African ; 
his imagination was deeply coloured by 
Oriental influences ; and it is probably from 
Oriental sources that he has drawn the 
charming story of Cupid and Psyche, which 
forms an episode of the Third Book, and 
which has inspired, both in ancient and in 
modern times, innumerable works of art. 
Other episodes of this novel are interesting 
in a different way, the most striking of 
all being perhaps the tale introduced in the 
first part of the novel as told by a com- 
mercial traveller, and blending in a remark- 
able fashion the elements of the horrible, 
the grotesque, and the supernatural. The 
novel, indeed, is marked throughout by 
great ingenuity and conspicuous cleverness, 
though some of its incidents are gross and 
shameful beyond belief 

After the fall of Rome and during the 
Dark Ages, when all accurate knowledge of 
ancient literature and history, as well as the 
endre classical tradition, were lost to West- 



Introduction 43 

ern Europe, there still existed in men's minds 
some faint and shadowy recollection of them. 
These, in the course of time, became blended 
with the popular tales of the Teutonic peoples, 
until at last they took on a definite form 
in the celebrated collection of stories known 
as the Gesta Romanorum, — a perfect mirage 
of odds and ends drawn partly from the classic 
past, and partly from Northern traditions, 
so that they jumble together the characters of 
antiquity in the most extraordinary fashion, 
without any sense whatever of chronological 
and historical accuracy, making Vergil, 
Homer, Alexander the Great, the Roman 
Caesars, Romulus, Remus, and the personages 
of ancient mythology appear and reappear 
side by side with the knights and wizards 
and dragons of mediaeval legend. These 
tiles were immensely popular, and circulated 
all over Europe, being used by the clergy to 
illustrate and give point to their sermons ; 
and in this way they have a certain value in 
general literary history, since they form a 



44 Introduction 

connecting link between the fiction of Greece 
and Rome and the fiction of modern times, 
which, for a century or two after its inception, 
drew very largely on these monkish stories 
for its themes. 



II 

THE NOVEL OF PETRONIUS 

^ I^HE author of the Satira is usually 
-*- identified with the Gaius Petronius 
who is mentioned by Tacitus in his Annals re- 
lating to the year 66 a. d. In this passage, 
after mentioning the death of one Petronius, 
Tacitus goes on to say that he was a man of 
pleasure who turned night into day and who 
became as famous for his indolence as other 
men for their activity. Yet he was not a 
vulgar debauchee, but a man of culture and 
refined luxury, the very absence of restraint 
in his language and life adding to his popu- 
larity by giving him a character for frank- 
ness. Though naturally indolent, he was at 
the same time a man of capacity, since when 
proconsul of Bithynia, and afterward when 
consul, he proved himself to be a person 
of much administrative ability; yet when 



46 Introduction 

released from those duties he went back to 
his life of dissipation among the most inti- 
mate circle of Nero's friends, and became to 
the emperor his maitre de flaisirs {elegan- 
tiarum arbiter), — an earlier Beau Brummell 
to an earlier George the Fourth. This pref- 
erence having roused the jealousy of Tigelli- 
nus, this former favourite worked upon a 
vein of cruelty in the emperor's nature, — a 
passion even stronger with him than his love 
of pleasure, — charged Petronius with being 
a friend of the traitor Scsevinus, suborned a 
slave to testify against him, and contrived to 
prevent him from being present to defend 
himself Petronius was journeying from 
Rome to Cumae in Nero's own retinue when 
he was arrested. He did not wait for a 
formal condemnation, dreading the suspense, 
but took his own life by opening his veins ; 
yet not instantaneously, for he caused his 
veins to be bound up, and again reopened, 
so that he died by inches, conversing mean- 
while and jesting with the friends who were 



Introduction 47 

with him, and listening to loose songs and 
verses, rewarding some of his slaves and 
punishing others, taking part in banquets, 
enjoying naps, — all this, so that to the 
world at large his death might appear to 
have been accidental. He did not in his 
will, like most men who died at the 
command of the emperor, flatter Nero or 
his favourite Tigellinus ; but, in place of 
the usual complimentary codicil, set forth 
the hideous vices of the emperor under the 
names of lewd men and women, describing 
in blunt language the monstrosity of their 
strange and unnatural excesses ; and this 
exposure he sent to Nero himself. He then 
broke his seal-ring, lest it should serve to 
bring others into danger. Nero, in trying to 
discover how the secrets of his debauches 
could have become known, remembered one 
Silia, a woman of some social position, the 
wife of a senator, and herself at once a par- 
taker of the emperor's shameful secrets and 
an intimate of Petronius. Nero, therefore, 



48 Introduction 

fixed upon her as the guilty person, and 
executed her for revealing the secrets of 
which she had become cognisant. 

The identification of this Petronius with 
the author of the Satira has been almost 
universally accepted, and it seems to us for 
excellent reasons. In the first place, the 
Satira was surely written in that part of the 
first century in which Petronius lived, as is 
established by the language of the book and 
by the allusions which it contains ; in the 
second place, the novel is precisely such a 
work as a man of the character described by 
Tacitus, brilliant, cultivated, cynical, and 
familiar with every kind of life, would be 
admirably fitted to write ; and in the third 
place, there is absolutely no evidence that 
can discredit the identification. It is inter- 
esting, also, to remember that the name 
" Arbiter," which is applied to Petronius by 
Tacitus, is also applied to the author of the 
Satira by one of the Roman grammarians as 
early as the end of the first century. 



Introduction 49 

Some scholars have tried to discover in 
the Satira the libellous book which Petronius 
at his death sent to Nero, and they have 
therefore regarded this work as being a dia- 
tribe against Nero and his court. This 
theory, however, which is usually called the 
Neronian Hypothesis, has little or nothing 
in its favour when examined in the light of 
reason and common sense ; for it is unlikely 
that so extensive a work (it originally ex- 
tended through at least sixteen books) could 
have been written in the interval between the 
arrest of Petronius and his death ; or that 
Nero would have permitted the continued 
existence of the book ; and there is so much 
in the book itself that cannot possibly relate 
to the emperor and his friends as to render 
the hypothesis absolutely untenable. 

The Satira is, properly speaking, neither a 
romance nor a satire. So far as it is a 
romance this character is only a pretext, 
a skeleton whose frame the author has 
clothed with a great diversity of material, — < 
4 



50 Introduction 

serious discussions, moral teachings, scenes 
of refined pleasure, beautiful thoughts, 
sentiments of the most revolting cynicism, 
amusing descriptions, biting criticisms, enter- 
taining anecdotes, and even one epic frag- 
ment. This variety of subject is wedded to 
an equal variety of style which is chameleon- 
like in its rapid changes, and which shifts 
with perfect ease from the language of litera- 
ture to the patois of the provinces and the 
dialect of the rabble. 

The episodic character of the narrative 
and the curious features of its language are 
responsible for two facts in the history of the 
text : (i) that it was largely used for excerpts 
and selections in the scrap-book period of 
Latin literature, which led to its final loss as 
a whole ; and (2) that the grammarians con- 
tinually cite it, which fact enables us to trace 
its existence as a whole or in part down to the 
end of the sixth century. The quotations 
from it and the allusions to it in Macrobius 
(a, d. 400), Servius (a. d. 400), Lydus 



Introduction 5 1 

(a. d. 520)5 St. Jerome (a. d. 410), Fulgen- 
tius (a. d. 500), Priscian (a. d. 450), Dio- 
medes (a. d. 500), Victorinus (a. d. 350), 
Isidorus (a. d. 636), and Sidonius Apolli- 
naris (a. d. 475), all serve as indications of 
its existence, at least upon the shelves of 
scholars. In the seventh and eighth cen- 
turies we hear no more of Petronius ; but in 
the ninth, the poetical fragment usually 
known as the Carmen de Bella Civili, of 295 
hexameter lines, is found to have been used 
for reading in the schools. A manuscript 
of the tenth century is now in existence and 
is the oldest known. It contains, however, 
only a part of the present text, substantially 
all except § 26 (middle), venerat tarn tertius 
dies — §78, — that is, all except the Cena 
'trimalchionis. In the same century the 
ecclesiastic Eugenius Vulgarius cites the 
Satira ; and so, too, in the twelfth century, 
the English scholar John of Salisbury. In 
the thirteenth century, Vicentius of Beau- 
vais quotes Petronius. 



52 Introduction 

There are now known to exist twenty-one 
manuscripts of the Satira, distributed among 
eleven European libraries, — five in the Na- 
tional (Imperial) Library of France, one in 
the Bibliotheque Mazarin,four in the Library 
of the University of Leyden, two in the 
Royal Library of Munich, two in the Im- 
perial Library at Vienna, one in the Royal 
Library at Dresden, one in the Ambro- 
sian Library at Milan, two in the Lauren- 
tian Library at Florence, one in the Vatican 
Library at Rome, and one in the Library of 
the Benedictine Convent of St. Placidius at 
Messina, besides the oldest of all, the Codex 
Bernensis, usually spoken of as No. 357. 
This is written on fine parchment (quarto), 
and consists of 43 leaves or 86 pages, con- 
taining, besides the fragment of Petronius, a 
number of other things, — a Greek glossary, 
a Latin glossary, and a part of the Catiltna 
of Sallust. The whole Cena is missing, as 
are also a number of other chapters. 

The most important manuscript is the so- 



Introduction 53 

called Codex Traguriensis, now in the Bib- 
liotheque Nationale at Paris. This which 
alone contains, in addition to other portions of 
the Satira, the whole of the Cena Trimalchio- 
nis, was discovered in the Dalmatian town of 
Trau (the Roman Tragurium) by one M an- 
nus Statilius (Pierre Petit, a Frenchman) in 

1663. It was contained in the library of 
Nicolaus Cippi, an Italian gentleman, bound 
up with the poems of Catullus, Tibullus, 
and Propertius. The news of its discovery 
created a sensation through Europe. It was 
reported that the whole of Petronius had 
been recovered, and great was the general 
anxiety to see it. Before Marinus, who 
was a scholar of much ability, had finished 
his work upon the manuscript, a Paduan 
printer named Frambotto in some way got 
access to it and made a hasty and necessarily 
careless copy which he printed at Padua in 

1664. So rude and imperfect was the copy 
made by Frambotto, and so many were the 
errors of his printed edition, that Wagenseil 



54 Introduction 

and others pronounced the discovery a 
fraud, and the whole fragment an impu- 
dent forgery. To this attack, Marinus put 
forth two very able and convincing replies, 
and followed them by printing an accurate 
edition of the manuscript at Paris later in 
the same year (1664). This, and a careful 
examination of the manuscript itself, which 
proved its great age, soon put an end to the 
controversy, though it was not until the end 
of the century that the Tragurian fragment 
was universally accepted as genuine. 

The Codex Traguriensis is a small folio 
bound in leather containing 237 written and 
1 1 blank pages, the latter being ruled in con- 
formity with the rest. The Satira begins 
at page 185. From page 185 to page 205 
is found the part contained in the ordinary 
editions. On page 205 is the statement in 
red ink : Petronii Arbitri Satyri Fragmenta 
Explici . . . ex Libra ^into Decimo et Sexto 
Decimo. Then on page 206 follows the Cena 
Trimalchionis. The end of the manuscript 



Introduction 55 

contains the Moretum of Vergil and the poem 
of Claudianus on the PhcEnix. 

The intense interest and furious con- 
troversy aroused by this discovery of Mari- 
nus, and the suggestions of fraud that were 
made by so many, were undoubtedly respon- 
sible for a very remarkable attempt on the 
part of one Fran9ois Nodot in 1693 to foist 
a real forgery upon the learned world. No- 
dot, who was a French soldier of fortune and 
possessed of a fair education, came forward 
with what professed to be an entire copy 
of Petronius. The story told by him was 
this : That one Du Pin had been present at 
the storming of Alba Graeca (Belgrade) in 
1688, and in the sack of the town had secured 
a manuscript of great antiquity written in 
characters very difficult to decipher; that 
this manuscript had been copied by some 
person not named, and by him brought in 
the copy to a merchant of Frankfort-on-the 
Main (also not named) who had in the 
course of time sent it to Nodot in France, 



56 Introduction 

This story, though somewhat dubious on 
the face of it, was ingenious in one respect, 
in that it absolved Nodot from the necessity 
of producing the original manuscript itself. 
The copy was laid before the provincial 
Academies of Nimes and Aries, and after 
examining the text, and listening to Nodot's 
story, the Latinists of those institutions were 
convinced of the genuineness of both. The 
text of Nodot was presently published at 
Paris by Charpentier with the punning 
motto. Nodi solvuntur a Nodo. 

It is fortunate for the reputation of French 
classical scholarship, so seriously compro- 
mised by the credulity of the faculties of 
Nimes, and Aries, that the fraudulent char- 
acter of Nodot's production was at once 
detected and exposed by a Frenchman, P. D. 
Huet, best known as the author of the work 
De Origine Fabularum. It is difficult, in- 
deed, to see how even a third-rate Latinist 
could have been imposed upon ; for the 
Latin of Nodot's text was not merely bad. 



Introduction 57 

not merely not the Latin of Petronius, but 
very evidently the Latin of a seventeenth- 
century Frenchman. So when we find such 
phrases and words as ad scientias explicandas 
moles ti impetri, and castella for villa, it is 
very clear indeed that the language is the 
Latin of Paris and not the Latin of Rome. 
It was also a suspicious circumstance that 
Nodot's manuscript supplied every omission 
in the existing text with the exception of 
those found between chapters 26 and 73, 
i. e. in the Cena Trimalchionis, a fact which 
seemed to show that he shrank from the 
attempt to fill in the text where a minute 
knowledge of archaeological detail was abso- 
lutely essential. 

Nodot's fraud never had the slightest 
chance of success, and soon ceased to be dis- 
cussed ; though as it supplies a continuous 
narrative in place of what would otherwise 
be a fragmentary and broken one, several 
editors have printed his additions as a part 
of the authentic text, distinguishing it some- 
times by the use of a different type. 



^S Introduction 

One other attempt at forgery was that of 
a learned Spaniard, Marchena, who, simply 
as an amusement and to test the acumen of 
the critics, published at Strasburg, in 1800, a 
small fragment purporting to be the part of 
the text missing from the twenty-sixth chap- 
ter after the words subinde osculis verberabat. 
This fragment, which would make in Biich- 
eler's text some 34 lines, and which Mar- 
chena claimed to have found at St. Gallen in 
Switzerland, had absolutely no internal 
marks of fraud. It was an altogether perfect 
imitation of the style and manner of Petro- 
nius, and was of an indecency that if anything 
surpassed the indecency of the original text. 
The only objection that scholars could make 
to it was the objection based upon the fact 
that Marchena would not produce the man- 
uscript copy which he professed to have 
found. Having received this tribute to his 
Petronian knowledge, however, Marchena 
promptly acknowledged that he had himself 
written the fragment as a pure hoax. Since 



Introduction 59 

that time there have been no additions to 
the accepted text, either genuine or fraudu- 
lent ; though the lost books of Petronius, 
like the lost books of Livy, continue to tan- 
talise contemporary Latinists with the hope 
of their ultimate recovery. 

There is a passage in Sidonius Apollinaris 
in which the poet, addressing Petronius in 
company with Cicero, Livy, and Vergil, 
associates him with Marseilles : 

" Quid vos eloquii canam Latini 
Arlinas, Patavine, Mantuane ? 
Et te Massiliensium per hortos 
Sacri stipitis. Arbiter, colonum 
Hellespontiaco parem Priapo ? " 

Servius, again, in his commentary, dealing 
with a line of the Mneid, cites Petronius as an 
authority regarding a certain usage of the 
people of Marseilles. It is a tempting sug- 
gestion that one finds in these two stray 
allusions which imply a Gallic nativity for 
the author of the greatest novel of antiquity. 
There is probably no other people except 



6o Introduction 

the Jews that have kept, down to the pres- 
ent day, their early racial traits and mental 
characteristics so completely as the Gauls. 
The passages of Caesar, and even those of 
Cato, that describe them, are as true to-day 
as the observations of Philip Gilbert Hamer- 
ton or Mr. W. C. Brownell. The nervous 
eagerness for something new, the lack of 
political stability, the rash bravery, the im- 
pulsiveness, the love of warfare and of la 
gloire, the intellectual quickness, the fond- 
ness for brilliant talk, — all these were noted 
down for us two thousand years ago, and 
they still remain the most striking character- 
istics of the modern French. Upon the orig- 
inal stock some other elements have been 
grafted, but they have been absolutely as- 
similated. The Norseman and the Teuton, 
on French soil, have become thorough Kelts. 
It is, therefore, a tempting hypothesis 
that makes Petronius the literary prede- 
cessor of those preternaturally clever writers 
of modern France whose spirit at least is 



Introduction 6 1 

that which breathes in every page of the 
Saiira. Perfect precision and firmness of 
stylistic touch are theirs and his. A per- 
vasive cynicism — not the cynicism that 
makes men bitter, but the far more hopeless 
cynicism that makes them utterly contempt- 
uous — they share with him. The versatility, 
the keen observation, the unerring strokes 
of the great literary artist, are conspicuous 
in both. The sexual instinct, pervasive, 
always present, and manifested at the most 
unexpected times, this, too, Petronius shares 
with the school of Gustave Flaubert and 
Guy de Maupassant. If he was a Roman 
by race, a Roman as Cicero and Tacitus 
were Roman, it is strange indeed that he 
had no predecessors and no true successor, 
but that to seek a fitting parallel for his 
strangely brilliant fiction we must pass over 
the intervening centuries and find it only in 
our own century and in the literary art of 
modern France. 



Ill 

THE CENA TRIMALCHIONIS 

TRIMALCHIO'S dinner party is one 
of the great masterpieces of comic 
literature. Wholly apart from the picture 
it gives — one of the very best that have 
come down to us from ancient times — of 
the typical life of the Roman bourgeoisie, 
apart from the archaeological value of the 
wealth of minute details in which it abounds, 
and apart also from its unusual linguistic 
interest in giving us connected specimens of 
the plebeian Latinity of daily life, it is from 
beginning to end a bit of character-drawing 
and sustained fun to be ranked with the 
creations of Fielding and Dickens in Eng- 
lish, of Stinde in German, and of Daudet in 
French. Trimalchio himself is a grotesque 
composite of Tittlebat Titmouse and 
Tartarin; his point of view, and what 



Introduction 63 

painters might call his atmosphere, are 
those of the immortal Familie Buchholz. 

The two companions, Encolpius and 
Ascyltus, are invited to a dinner given by 
this personage, and the narrative of their 
experiences there is given in full. Trimal- 
chio is a freedman who, having secured his 
start in life by no very dainty practices, has 
amassed an enormous fortune and is now 
enjoying it. He is a bald, red-faced old 
fellow, fond of eating and fonder of display, 
inordinately conceited, forever bragging of 
his money, and anxious also to seem a man 
of literary attainments, though his ignorance 
of everything is unbounded. His compan- 
ions at table are nearly all men of his own 
rank ; and there is his wife Fortunata, a 
sharp, practical, shrewish little woman, to 
whose fidelity and care Trimalchio, who has 
some good points, frankly ascribes a large 
share of his success. 

The details of the dinner are given in full, 
and the mixture of lavish profusion and utter 



64 Introduction 

lack of taste and savoirfaire recall the descrip- 
tion by Horace of the dinner which the snob 
Nasidienus gave in honour of Maecenas 
(Sat. ii. 8). Trimalchio does not come to 
the table until his guests have been seated 
and the dinner is well under way. When he 
does enter, somewhat after the fashion of the 
Duke of Omnium in Framley Parsonage, he 
takes care to let his guests know that he is a 
good deal inconvenienced by having to keep 
his engagement with them. Taking the 
chief place at table, he ostentatiously picks 
his teeth with a pin, and for a time plays 
checkers with a friend instead of taking any 
part in the conversation. Eggs are served 
under a wooden hen, and when opened prove 
to be only paste with a bird inside. Wine 
is served which is labelled, " Opimian : 100 
years old," though the genuine Opimian 
would have been much older. Trimalchio 
brags of it and politely adds : " It is even 
better than what I put on my table yesterday, 
when I had guests who were of much higher 



Introduction 65 

social standing than you." A remarkable 
medley of rich food is presently set upon the 
table : capons, hare, sow's paunch, fish, 
kidneys, roast beef, meat pie, cheese, lobster, 
goose, honey, and bread. The guests begin 
to talk ; one of them describes in an under- 
tone, for the enlightenment of Encolpius, 
the different personages at the table, and tells 
tales of the hostess Fortunata. Trimalchio 
makes jokes and begins to display his learning. 
More dishes appear. A whole boar is served 
up with sucking pigs of pastry. A slave 
rips up the boar with a knife, and a number 
of little birds fly out into the room. A slave 
boy recites some of Trimalchio's poetry to 
the company, and receives his freedom as a 
reward. Presently Trimalchio gets up from 
the table to visit the next room, and con- 
versation becomes general. One of the 
guests deplores the practice of bathing every 
day. They praise drink, and tell anecdotes 
of friends who have lately died. Another 
laments the degeneracy of the times, and 

5 



66 Introduction 

recalls the days when he first came over from 
Asia. Gladiators and the races are talked 
over. One of the freedmen gives his views 
on education. 

" My son," he says, " is getting to be 
quite a scholar. ... I 've just been buying 
the boy some law-books, as I want him to 
get a snack of that for use in business. 
This sort of learning makes bread and butter; 
but as for literature, he 's daubed himself up 
enough with that already. The fact is, I 'm 
going to have him learn a real trade, either 
barbering or auctioneering, or law, which 
will stick to him till he dies. I keep dinning 
into his ears every day, ' My boy, don't 
forget that whatever you learn is your own. 
Just look at Phileros the lawyer. Why if 
he had n't been educated he 'd have starved. 
Only the other day he was a pedler with 
his wares on his shoulder. Now he's as 
rich as Norbanus himself I tell you a 
good trade never goes hungry.' " 

Trimalchio presently returns and dis- 



Introduction 67 

courses on the state of his bowels, with a dis- 
quisition on the most efficacious cathartics. 
Later he lectures on Corinthian bronzes', 
glass, and bric-a-brac. He has a slave come 
in and read the official report of what had 
happened on Trimalchio's estates the pre- 
ceding day, — this in imitation of the Roman 
Acta Diurna. Trimalchio then discusses 
poetry, writes an impromptu verse himself, 
and, growing somewhat dogmatic with wine, 
uttersa number of aphorisms. 

" Of all dumb brutes the ox and the sheep 
are the most laborious ; to oxen we owe the 
bread we eat and to the sheep the clothes we 
wear. What a shame, then, it is that any one 
should eat mutton or wear a tunic ! As to 
bees, I think them almost divine, for they can 
spit honey. . . . That 's why they sting, too, 
for there 's no rose without its thorns." 

The guests now begin to feel the effects of 
the wine. Ascyltos quarrels with one of the 
freedmen, and gets a flood of Billingsgate, 
which is checked by Trimalchio. A troop 



68 Introduction 

of declairaers enter who recite from Homer, 
in costume. Trimalchio tells the story of 
the Trojan War. 

" Diomede and Ganymede were two 
brothers, whose sister was Helen. Aga- 
memnon carried her off and surreptitiously 
substituted a hind in her place, for Diana. 
So, as Homer tells us, the Trojans and 
Tarentines fought together, but Agamemnon 
conquered, and married his daughter Iphi- 
genia to Achilles, which drove Ajax mad, as 
you shall presently see." 

At this, a boiled calf is brought in, and an 
actor followed to represent Ajax. Simulating 
madness, he rushes at the calf with drawn 
sword, slashes it into sHces, and then presents 
a piece to each of the astonished guests. 
The dessert follows : sweetmeats, pastry, 
apples, grapes, and other fruits, and then more 
wine. Those present begin to tell stories. 
Niceros relates his adventures with a were- 
wolf; Trimalchio, a witch story. A friend 
of Trimalchio's with his wife enters and takes 



Introduction 69 

his place at table. Trimalchio, becoming 
maudlin, has his will brought in and read, 
and, after telling what arrangements he has 
made for his burial, begins to weep. All 
rise from the table and follow him to the 
bath-house for a hot bath, after which they 
proceed to another dining-room where a 
second elaborate meal is ready. Trimal- 
chio has a chicken stewed in the room as a 
special dish for himself; and presently falls 
to quarrelling with Fortunata, flings a cup at 
her head, and abuses her in a volley of invec- 
tives. Peace is restored, more wine is drunk, 
and finally Trimalchio stretches himself 
out as though lying in state, the horn- 
blowers play a funeral march, and with this 
the dinner ends. 



TRIMALCHIO'S DINNER 



Trimalchio's Dinner 

^ I ^HE day at last arrived with its promise 
-■- of a free dinner for us ; but we were 
so much done up that we really thought of 
getting out of the whole affair. While we 
were thinking the matter over, however, one 
of Agamemnon's servants came in and said : 

" Don't you really know at whose house 
the dinner is to be ? Why, it 's at Trimal- 
chio's, and a most sumptuous sort of person 
he is. He keeps a time-piece in his dining- 
room and has a man blow on a horn every 
hour of the day, so as to remind him just 
how much of life he 's losing." 

At this we forgot all our troubles and 
started to dress for dinner, telling our young 
friend Giton to follow us to the baths in the 
character of our attendant, — a part which he 



74 Trimalchio's Dinner 

very willingly assumed. And so, after dress- 
ing, we took a preliminary stroll, and pres- 
ently espied a bald-headed old man, in 
reddish clothes, playing tennis In the midst 
of a number of long-haired slaves. It was 
not the slaves, however, that attracted us so 
much as the old gentleman himself who, 
with slippers on his feet, was serving a green 
ball. As soon as a ball fell to the ground 
he refused to touch it again, but took a fresh 
one from a bag which a slave by his side 
held out to the players. While I was 
watching his luxurious manner of playing, 
up comes Menelaus and says he : 

" This is the gentleman at whose house 
you are going to dine ; and, in fact, this 
game is really a preliminary to the dinner." 

Before long, we entered the public bath 
and, after remaining a while in the hot water, 
we changed to cold. Trimalchio, after being 
carefully perfumed, was rubbed down, though 
not with towels, but with mantles made of 
the very softest wool ; while three atten- 



Trimalchio's Dinner 75 

datits who stood there drank Falernian wine, 
of which they spilled a good deal in their 
wrangling ; whereupon Trimalchio remarked 
that this was all his treat. Afterwards, 
wrapped up in a scarlet dressing-gown, he 
took his seat on a litter preceded by four 
gorgeously decorated footmen, and by a 
wheeled chair in which was his favourite 
slave, a blear-eyed old fellow, homelier even 
than his master. Then Trimalchio was 
carried off home, a musician marching beside 
him with a pair of shrill pipes and playing 
all the way as though he were saying some- 
thing privately in his master's ear. We 
followed along, filled with admiration, and 
in Agamemnon's company we reached 
Trimalchio's front door, on one of whose 
posts was fastened a notice with this in- 
scription : 

•'If any Slave shall leave the House without his 

Master's Permission he shall Receive a 

Hundred Lashes," 



76 Trimalchio's Dinner 

At the entrance to the house was the 
doorkeeper, dressed in green with a cherry- 
coloured belt around his waist, and engaged 
in shelling peas into a silver dish. Above 
the threshold hung a golden cage in which a 
magpie kept saying, " How do you do ? " to 
us as we entered. I fell to staring at all 
these things until I bent over backwards so 
far that I nearly broke my legs ; for on the 
left as we entered, and not far from the 
janitor's room, was a great dog fastened by 
a chain and painted on the wall, while over- 
head in capital letters was th.e inscription : 

" Beware of the Dog ! " 

My friends laughed at me; but I soon re- 
covered my presence of mind and let my 
eyes rove over the entire wall ; for on it was 
painted, first a slave auction, and then Tri- 
malchio himself, with long hair and holding 
a wand in his hand, entering Rome guided 
by Minerva. Another painting represented 
him learning arithmetic, and another showed 




Beware of the Dog." (Pompeian Mosaic.) 



Trimalchio's Dinner 77 

him as promoted to a stewardship. The 
meaning of all these things the thoughtfiil 
artist had carefully explained by legends 
pamted under each. At the other end of 
the entrance, Mercury was represented as 
raising Trimalchio aloft by the chin, and 
there was also Fortune with her horn of 
plenty, and the three Fates twisting their 
golden threads. I observed in the portico a 
number of running footmen who were prac- 
tising with their trainer, and in one corner I 
saw a large closet in a recess of which were 
household gods made of silver, a marble 
statuette of Venus, and a large gold box in 
which they said the master of the house kept 
his beard after it had been shaved off. 

I fell to questioning the janitor as to 
what were the pictures in the middle, and he 
told me that they represented scenes from 
the Iliad and the Odyssey, and also the glad- 
iatorial contests of a certain Laenas. I had 
very little time to gaze on them, however, for 
presently we entered the dining-room, near 



78 Trimalchio's Dinner 

the door of which a bailiff was making up 
the accounts. What I most wondered at 
was that on the door-posts was a bundle of 
rods with axes, one end of which tapered off 
into the semblance of the beak of a ship 
with the legend : 

" To Gaius Pompeius Trimalchio, Augustan Com- 
missioner, CiNNAMUs, HIS Steward, has 
Consecrated this." 

Beneath the inscription a double lamp was 
suspended, and tablets were afExed to each 
door-post, one, if I remember rightly, bear- 
ing this announcement : 

"On the 30TH AND 3 1 ST OF December, our Master 
dines out." 

On the other were painted the moon and 
the seven stars, and on a calendar a little 
knob served to indicate which days were 
lucky and which were unlucky. 

Imbued with all these delightful facts, 
just as we were entering the dining-room a 
slave who had been assigned to this office 



Trimalchio's Dinner 79 

called out, " Right foot first ! " It quite 
upset us for a moment for fear lest any one 
of us should cross the threshold in an ill- 
omened way contrary to orders ; but we 
managed to get our right feet In first, and 
just at this moment a slave, stripped of his 
outer clothing, threw himself at our feet and 
begged us to save him from punishment. 
He explained that the offence for which he 
was in peril was no great one ; that he had 
simply allowed the steward's clothes to be 
stolen from the bath-house; and that these 
were worth only ten thousand sesterces. So 
we went back, right foot first, and begged the 
steward, who was counting his money in the 
outer hall, to let the slave off from punish- 
ment. The steward looked up disdainfully 
and replied : 

" It is n't the loss that I 'm vexed about, 
so much as the carelessness of this confounded 
slave ! The clothes that he lost were my 
dinner-clothes which a dependent of mine 
gave me on my birthday. To be sure, they 



8o Trimalchio's Dinner 

were of Tyrian purple, but they 'd already 
been washed once. Well, well, I '11 let him 
off for your sake." 

Greatly impressed by this mark of favour, 
we had no sooner entered the dining-room 
than the slave whose punishment we had 
begged off rushed up to us, and to our sur- 
prise showered kisses upon us and thanked 
us for our kindness, saying finally : 

" You '11 find out pretty soon what sort 
of a man he is to whom you have done a 
favour. You know the master's wine is 
always the butler's gift." 

Presently we took our places, and Alexan- 
drian slaves poured water cooled with snow 
over our hands, while others approached our 
feet and with great skill began paring our 
corns ; nor were they silent even over this 
rather disagreeable task, but kept singing all 
the time. I wanted to find out whether the 
whole household sang ; and so I asked for 
something to drink ; whereupon a slave 
served me, singing the while, like the others, 



Trimalchio's Dinner 8 i 

a shrill ditty ; and in fact, every slave who 
was asked for anything did exactly the 
same, so that you would have imagined 
yourself in the green-room of a comic opera 
troupe rather than in the dining-room of a 
private gentleman. 

A very choice lot of hors SHceuvres was then 
brought in ; for we had already taken our 
places, all except Trimalchio himself for 
whom the seat of honour was reserved. 
Among the objects placed before us was 
a young ass made of Corinthian bronze and 
fitted with a sort of pack-saddle which con- 
tained on one side pale green olives and on 
the other side dark ones. Two dishes 
flanked this ; and on the margin of them 
Trimalchio's name was engraved and the 
weight of the silver. Then there were little 
bridge-like structures of iron which held 
dormice seasoned with honey and poppy- 
seed ; and smoking sausages were arranged 
on a silver grill which had underneath it dark 
Syrian plums to represent black coals, and 
6 



82 Trimalchio's Dinner 

scarlet pomegranate seeds to represent red- 
hot ones. 

In the midst of all this magnificence Tri- 
malchio was brought in to the sound of 
music and propped up on a pile of well- 
stufFed cushions. The very sight of him 
almost made us laugh in spite of ourselves ; 
for his shaven pate was thrust out of a scar- 
let robe, and around his neck he had tucked 
a long fringed napkin with a broad purple 
stripe running down the middle of it. On 
the little finger of his left hand he wore a 
huge gilt ring, and on the last joint of the 
next finger a ring that appeared to be of 
solid gold, but having little iron stars upon 
it. Moreover, lest we should fail to take in 
all his magnificence, he had bared his right 
arm, which was adorned with a golden brace- 
let and an ivory circle fastened by a glit- 
tering clasp. 

As he sat there picking his teeth with a 
silver toothpick, he remarked : 

" Well, friends, it was just a bit incon- 



Trimalchio's Dinner 83 

venient for me to dine now ; but, so as not to 
delay you by my absence, I have denied my- 
self a considerable amount of pleasure. You 
will allow me, however, to finish my game." 

A slave came in carrying a backgammon- 
board of polished wood and also crystal dice ; 
and I noted, as a very dainty detail, that instead 
of white and black pieces, he used, in playing, 
gold and silver coins. While he went on with 
his game, uttering as he played all sorts 
of Billingsgate, and while we were still eat- 
ing the hors iTxuvres, a tray was brought in 
with a basket on which a wooden fowl 
was placed with its wings spread out in a 
circle after the fashion of setting hens. 
Immediately two slaves approached and 
amid a burst of music began to poke around 
in the straw, and having presently dis- 
covered there some pea-hens' eggs, they dis- 
tributed them among the guests. 

Trimalchio looked up during this opera- 
tion and said, " Gentlemen, I had the hens* 
eggs placed under this fowl ; but I *m rather 



84 Trimalcliio's Dinner 

afraid they have young chickens in them. 
Let 's see whether they 're still fit to suck." 

So we took our spoons, which weighed not 
less than half a pound each, and broke the 
egg-shells, which were made of flour paste. 
As I did so, I was almost tempted to throw 
my egg on the floor, for it looked as though 
a chicken had just been formed inside ; but 
when I heard an old diner-out by my side 
saying : " There 's bound to be something 
good here," I thrust my finger through the 
shell and drew out a plump reed-bird, 
surrounded by yolk of egg well seasoned 
with pepper. 

Trimalchio had now given up his game 
and called for the same dainties that we had 
had, inviting us with a loud voice to take a 
drink of honeyed wine also. Just then, 
however, at a signal given by music, all the 
dishes were swept off at once by a troop of 
slaves who sang over their work. Amid the 
bustle, a silver dish happened to fall on the 
floor, and when one of the servants started 



Trimalchio's Dinner 85 

to pick it up, Trimalchio ordered him to 
be soundly cuffed, and told him to throw 
it down again ; and presently there came in 
a servant, broom in hand, who swept up the 
silver dish along with the rest of the rubbish 
that lay upon the floor. After this, there 
entered two long-haired ^Ethiopian slaves 
carrying little bags such as are used for 
sprinkling the sand in the amphitheatre, and 
from these they poured wine over our hands ; 
for water was not good enough to wash in at 
that house. 

We complimented Trimalchio on all these 
elegant little details, and he observed 
complacently : 

" Mars loves a fair field ; so I had a 
separate table given to each guest. Inciden- 
tally, too, these wretched slaves will not 
overheat us by their crowding." 

Immediately glass wine-jars were brought 
in, carefully sealed with plaster, and on their 
necks there were little tags with this legend : 
" Falernian Opmian, one hundred years old" 



86 Trimalchio's Dinner 

While we were reading the tags, Trimalchio 
clapped his hands, and presently began to 
hold forth : 

" Oh dear, see how much longer-lived 
wine is than any poor mortal ! Let 's drink, 
then, and make merry, for wine is really life. 
Just look ; here 's genuine old Opimian. I 
did n't put nearly such good liquor as this 
on the table yesterday, and yet the people 
who dined with me then were socially very 
much superior to you." 

As we were drinking the wine, and noting 
very carefully all his evidences of good taste, 
a slave brought him a silver skeleton ingen- 
iously put together so that its limbs could be 
thrown out of joint and made to turn in any 
direction. This Trimalchio kept throwing 
again and again upon the table and making 
it assume all sorts of shapes, until at last 
he observed : 

" Alas and alack ! what a nothing is man ! 
We all shall be bones at the end of life's, span : 
So let us be jolly as long as we can." 



Trimalchio's Dinner 87 

We were still complimenting him on his 
philosophy, when a course was served whose 
peculiarity attracted every one's attention ; 
for the double tray in which it was set had 
the twelve signs of the Zodiac arranged in a 
circle and over each sign the chief butler had 
arranged some kind of food that was appro- 
priate to it, — over the Ram, some chick-peas 
with tendrils that curled like a ram's horns ; 
over the Bull, a bit of beef; over the Twins, 
a pair of lamb's fries and kidneys ; over the 
Crab, a garland ; over the Lion, an African 
fig ; over the Virgin, a sow's paunch ; over 
the Balance, a pair of scales on one of which 
was placed a tart and on the other a cake; 
over the Scorpion, a crab ; over Aquarius, a 
goose ; over the Fish, two mullets. In the 
middle was a piece of fresh turf supporting 
a honeycomb. An Egyptian slave passed 
us some bread in a silver bread-plate, while 
Trimalchio croaked out a popular song from 
the musical farce called "The Garlic Eater. 

We were making ready to attack these 



88 Trimalchio's Dinner 

absurd viands, though with no great eager- 
ness, when Trimalchio remarked : 

" Come, let 's dine. This is really the 
very sauce of the dinner." 

As he said this, four slaves came forward 
with a solemn dance-step to the sound of 
music and took oiF the cover from the upper 
part of the tray. As soon as they had done 
this we saw, underneath the cover, capons 
and sows' breasts, and a hare with feathers 
stuck in its back so as to represent Pegasus. 
We observed also in the corner of the tray a 
figure of Marsyas, holding a wine-skin from 
which highly peppered fish-sauce flowed out 
over the fish, which swam in it as though 
they were in a brook. The slaves began to 
applaud, and we all joined in vigorously, 
laughing as we fell to, over these choice 
dainties. Trimalchio, equally delighted at 
this culinary surprise, called out : " Carver ! " 
and at once a man provided with a knife and 
making elaborate gestures in time to the music, 
hacked up the meat in such a fashion that 



Trimalchio's Dinner 89 

you would have imagined him to be a chariot- 
fighter slashing about to the sound of a 
water-organ. Trimalchio in a drawling tone 
kept up his exclamation, " Carver ! Carver ! " 
so that suspecting the repetition of this word 
to have some humorous intention, I did not 
hesitate to question the guest who sat beside 
me. He was quite familiar with the whole 
thing, and explained it by saying : 

" Do you see the man who has carved the 
meat ? His name is Carver. And so, as 
often as Trimalchio says : ' Carve her ! ' he 
calls the slave by name and at the same time 
tells him what to do." 

I was unable to eat another mouthful ; and 
so, turning to my companion, I tried to draw 
as much information out of him as possible, 
and to get the run of the gossip of the 
house, asking, in the first place, who the 
woman was who was darting here and there 
about the room. 

" Oh ! " said he, " that 's Trimalchio's 
wife. Her name is Fortunata. She has 



go Trimalchio's Dinner 

money to burn now, but a little while ago 
what do you suppose she was ? Your 
honour will excuse me for saying so, but 
really in those days you wouldn't have 
taken a piece of bread from her hand. And 
now, without any why or wherefore, she 's at 
the top notch and is all the world to Trimal- 
chio, — in fact, if she should say it was night 
at noonday, he 'd believe her. As for Tri- 
malchio himself, he 's so rich that he does n't 
know how much money he 's got ; but this 
jade has an eye to everything, even the things 
that you wouldn't think about yourself. 
She does n't drink, she 's as straight as a 
string — in fact, a really smart woman ; but 
she has an awfully sharp tongue, a regular 
magpie on a perch. If she likes any one, she 
likes him way down to the ground, and if she 
does n't like him, she just hates him ! Tri- 
malchio's estates are so large that it would 
tire a bird to fly over them, and he has 
heaps on heaps of cash. Take his silver 
plate, for instance. Why, there 's more of 



Trimalchio's Dinner 91 

it in his janitor's office than most persons 
have in their entire outfit; and his slaves, — 
well, sir, they 're so numerous that I don't 
think that a tenth part of them would recog- 
nise their own master. In fact, when it 
comes to money he can buy up any of these 
chumps here ten times over; and there 's no 
reason for his paying out money for any- 
thing at all, because he produces everything 
on his own place — wool and cedar wood 
and pepper, — why, if you were to ask for 
hens' milk, you 'd get it ! To give you an 
instance : he found that he was n't getting 
very good wool ; so he bought some rams at 
Tarentum and changed the breed of his 
sheep. Again, because he wanted to have 
Athenian honey right here on his estate, he 
imported bees from Athens, and incidentally 
these improved the breed of the native bees 
also. Only a few days ago he wrote and 
ordered mushroom-seed to be sent him from 
India. He has n't a single mule on his place 
that was n't sired by a wild ass. Just see 



9 2 Trimalchio's Dinner 

how many cushions he has here. Every 
single one of them has either purple or scar- 
let stuffing. That 's what I call being rich. 
But you 're not to suppose that his associates 
here are to be sneezed at, for they've got 
plenty of rocks too. Just look at that man 
who has the last place at the table. Even 
he has to-day his little eight hundred thou- 
sand, and yet he started out with nothing. 
It was n't very long ago that he was a porter 
carrying wood on his back through the 
street. But, as the saying goes, he found a 
fairy wishing-cap. I never grudge a man 
his good luck. It only means that he knows 
how to look out for himself; and this chap 
over here not long ago put up his shanty for 
sale with this sort of an advertisement : 

" ' Gaius Pompeius Diogenes will let this 
lodging from July first, having just bought 
a large house for himself.' 

" Now take the case of that other man over 
there who has the freedman's place at the 
table. How well off do you suppose he is ? 




Interior of Roman House. 



Trimalchio's Dinner 93 

I don't know anything against him, but he 's 
seen the time when he had his little million ; 
only somehow or other he went wrong. 
To-day I don't imagine he has a hair on his 
head that is n't mortgaged, and it is n't his 
own fault either, for there 's no better man in 
the world; but it's the fault of his con- 
founded freedmen who made way with every- 
thing that he had. You know the saying, 
' Too many cooks spoil the broth,' and the 
other saying that ' He who loses money loses 
friends.' And what a fine profession he had, 
too, just as you see him now ! He was an 
undertaker. He used to dine like a king, 
on wild boar, with pastry and birds, and he 
had cooks and bakers by the score. They 
used to spill more wine under his table than 
most men have in their whole wine-cellars. 
In fact, he was a fairy vision rather than a 
man. When his affairs got into Queer 
Street and he was afraid his creditors would 
think that things were in a bad way, he 
wanted to raise some money on his goods 



94 Trimalchio's Dinner 

and chattels ; so he advertised an auction of 
them in this fashion : 'Julius Proculus will 
hold an auction for the sale of his superflu- 
ous property.' " 

Trimalchio interrupted this pleasant gos- 
sip, for the course had already been removed, 
and the guests, growing lively, had begun to 
give their attention to the wine and to gen- 
eral conversation. So, resting on his elbow, 
he remarked : 

" I hope that you will compliment this 
wine by drinking a plenty. You know the 
fish that you have eaten ought to have some- 
thing to swim in. Did you really suppose, 
I should like to know, that I was satisfied 
with the sort of dinner that you saw in the 
lower part of the tray ? Did you take me 
for that sort of a hairpin ? Well, well, a 
man has got to have some scientific knowl- 
edge in dining. God bless my former 
owner who was bound to make me a man of 
the world; for now I can encounter nothing 
that really surprises me, not even such 



Trimalchio's Dinner 95 

things as this tray had on it. The heaven 
represented here, in which the twelve gods 
dwell, is divided into the same number of 
signs ; and now, for example, it falls under 
the dominion of the Ram, and so whoever is 
born under that sign owns many flocks and 
much wool, and has himself moreover a hard 
head, a brow without shame, and a sharp 
horn. Most debaters are born under the 
Ram, and so are rambunctious people." 

We warmly praised the elegant learning 
of the astrologer and so he went on : 

" Next, then, the whole heaven comes 
under the dominion of the Bull, and so at 
that season kickers are produced and herds- 
men, and men who know how to browse for 
a living. Under the Twins are born those 
who are affinities and good yoke-fellows, 
and those who can kill two birds with one 
stone. I myself was born under the Crab, 
and so I have many feet to stand on, and 
many possessions both on sea and land ; for 
the crab squares with both : and that 's the 



96 Trimalchio's Dinner 

reason why I placed nothing over that sign 
lest I should obscure my own horoscope. 
Under the Lion, great eaters and high- 
spirited fellows are born ; under the Virgin, 
women and runaway slaves, and people who 
are controlled by others ; under the Balance, 
butchers and dealers in ointment, and all 
those who sell things by weight ; under the 
Scorpion, poisoners and cut-throats ; under 
the Archer, cross-eyed men who when they 
look out of the window see up the chimney; 
under Capricorn, moody chaps who have 
strength given them in proportion to their 
misfortunes ; under Aquarius, innkeepers 
who water their wines, and cabbage-heads ; 
under the Fish, caterers and also rhetoricians 
who cater to our ears. Thus the orb turns 
like a mill and always brings some misfor- 
tune, because at every moment men are 
either being born or else are dying. But as 
to your seeing a turf in the middle and a 
honeycomb on the turf, I had a reason for 
that arrangement. For Mother Earth is in 



Trimalchio's Dinner 97 

the middle, round as an egg, and she contains 
within herself all sorts of good things, like the 
honeycomb." 

" Learnedly expounded ! " we all cried out ; 
and lifting our hands toward the ceiling we 
swore that the astromomers Hipparchus and 
Aratus were not to be compared with our 
host ; and we kept up this eulogy until the 
servants came and hung pieces of tapestry 
along the front of our couches, with hunt- 
ing nets embroidered on them and huntsmen 
armed with spears, and all the paraphernalia 
of the hunt. We hardly knew what these 
preparations foreboded, when outside the 
dining-room a great hubbub began, and, lo 
and behold, Spartan dogs began dashing 
around the table. A tray followed them in 
which was set a boar of great size with a 
liberty-cap above him, while there hung 
from his tusks two little palm-leaf baskets, 
one full of nut-shaped dates, and the other 
full of Theban dates. All around were little 
pigs made of pastry and intent on the breasts, 

7 



98 Trimalchio's Dinner 

this signifying that the boar was supposed to 
represent a sow. These were intended for 
keepsakes to carry away. 

The slave called Carver, who had mangled 
the capons, did not come in to cut up the 
boar ; but instead, a big fellow with a beard, 
wearing leggings and with a light cloak on 
his shoulders, slashed the side of the boar 
vigorously with a drawn hunting-knife, till 
out of the gash live thrushes flew forth. 
Bird-catchers were at hand with long rods, 
and they caught the birds very quickly as 
they were fluttering around the dining-room. 
After Trimalchio had ordered a bird to be 
given to each guest, he added : 

" Just see what a fine big acorn this wild 
boar had eaten ! " 

Directly after, the slaves went to the little 
baskets which hung from the boar's tusks, 
and distributed the dates among the guests 
to the accompaniment of music. 

Meanwhile I in my remote corner was 
much distracted in mind as to why the boar 



Trimalchio's Dinner 99 

had come in with a liberty-cap set upon 
him ; so after I had eaten up all my sweet- 
meats, I resolved to question my informant. 

" Oh," said he, " the slave here waiting on 
you can easily tell you that, for it is n't a 
puzzle but a perfectly obvious thing. This 
boar was brought on in the last course of 
yesterday's dinner, and was allowed by the 
guests to go untouched. So, you see, he 
comes back to-day to dinner like a freedman." 

I fell to cursing my own stupidity, and 
asked no more questions lest I should appear 
never to have dined among gentlemen before. 

While we were having this talk, a hand- 
some young slave crowned with ivies and 
taking the part of Bacchus, the Free Father, 
passed grapes about in a basket and rendered 
his master's poems in a very shrill voice. 
Trimalchio turning in his direction said : 

" Dionysus, I give you your freedom." 

The slave at once took the liberty-cap off 
the boar and set it on his own head, upon 
which Trimalchio inquired of us all — 



lOO Trimalchio's Dinner 

" Why am I of honourable birth ? Be- 
cause I have a Free Father." 

We all commended this witty saying, 
and as the slave went around the table we 
kissed him warmly by way of congratulation. 

After this course, Trimalchio got up to go 
to the lavatory ; so that, feeling a certain 
freedom in the absence of our master, we 
began to draw each other into conversa- 
tion. Dama, first of all, calling for a goblet, 
remarked : 

" A day is nothing. Night comes before 
you can turn around. That 's why I think 
there 's nothing better than to go from your 
bed straight to the dining-room. It 's a cold 
climate we have here. Even a bath scarcely 
warms me up. In fact, a hot drink is my 
wardrobe. I 've had several stiff drinks 
already, so that I 'm loaded for bear ; for the 
wine has gone to my head." 

At this point Seleucus interrupted him, 
remarking, — 

" Well, for my part, / don't take a bath 




Roman Cookshop. 



Trimalchio's Dinner loi 

every day. The cold water nips you so that 
when you bathe every day your courage all 
oozes out of you. But after I 've swigged a 
toby of booze, I tell the cold to go to the 
devil. But I could n't take a bath to-day, 
anyhow, for I was to a funeral, Chrysan- 
thus, a fine man and such a good fellow, 
kicked the bucket. I saw him only . the 
other day, — in fact, I can hear him talking 
to me now. Dear me ! we go around like 
blown-up bladders. We're of less conse- 
quence than even the flies, for flies have some 
spirit in them, while we are nothing but mere 
bubbles. But as to Chrysanthus, what if he 
was n't a total abstainer .? Anyhow, for five 
days before he died, he never threw a drink in 
his face nor ate a crumb of bread. Well, 
well, he's joined the majority. It was the 
doctors that really killed him or perhaps 
just his bad luck ; for a doctor is nothing 
after all but a sort of consolation to your 
mind. He was laid out in great style on 
his best bed, with his best bedclothes on. 



I02 Trimalchio's Dinner 

and he had a splendid wake, though his wife 
was n't sincere in her mourning for him. But 
I say, what if he did n't treat her very well ? 
A woman so far as she is a woman is a regu- 
lar bird of prey. It is n't worth while to do 
a favour for a woman, because it 's just the 
same as though you 'd chucked it down a 
well. But love in time becomes a regular 
ball-and-chain on a man." 

He was getting to be rather boresome 
when Phileros chimed in : 

"Oh, let's think of the living. Your 
friend has got whatever was his due. He 
lived an honourable life and he died an 
honourable death. What has he to com- 
plain of? From having nothing, he made a 
fortune, for he was always ready to pull a 
piece of money out of a muck-heap with 
his teeth ; and so he grew as rich as a honey- 
comb. By Jove ! I believe the fellow left 
a cool hundred thousand, and he had it all 
in cash. I 'm giving you this straight, for I 
have a rough tongue. He was a man of 



Trimalchio's Dinner 103 

unlimited cheek, a tonguey fellow, and he 
always had a chip on his shoulder. His 
brother was a good sort of chap, a friend to 
a friend, a man with an open hand and a 
generous table. At the start he had a hard 
road to hoe, but his first vintage set him on 
his legs again, for he sold his wine at his 
own price. But what especially kept his 
head above water was this, that he got hold 
of a legacy, and waltzed into a good deal 
more of it than had been really left him. But 
this friend of yours, because he had quar- 
relled with his brother, left his fortune to 
some outsider. I tell you a man has to go 
mighty far to get away from his relatives ! 
Unfortunately he had slaves who blabbed all 
his secrets and harmed him, A man makes 
a mistake who trusts others too readily, 
especially if he 's a business man. Never- 
theless, while he lived, he enjoyed what he 
had ; and, after all, he is the luckiest man who 
has things given to him and not merely 
promised to him. He was really Fortune's 



I04 Trimalchio's Dinner 

favourite, for in his hand even lead turned 
to gold. Of course that 's easy enough when 
your affairs run on all-fours. How old 
do you think he was when he died ? Why, 
he was over seventy ; but he was hard as 
nails, he bore his years well, and his head 
was as black as a crow. I knew the fellow ; 
he was a gay bird, — ready to play Jack to 
any woman's Jill. But I don't blame him, 
for that 's the only thing that he *s been able 
to take away with him." 

After Phileros had finished, Ganymedes 
started in : 

" All this talk of yours is n't the least bit 
to the point. No one here seems to care 
about the high price of grain. By Jove, I 
could n't get a mouthful of bread to-day ! 
And how the drought keeps on ! We 've 
had a sort of famine for a year. Confound 
the officials anyhow, who are standing in 
with the bakers ! ' Scratch my back, and 
I 'II scratch yours,' as the saying goes. So 
the public has to suffer for it and their jaws 



Trimalchio's Dinner 105 

get a long vacation. Oh, if we only had 
those roaring blades that I found here 
when I first arrived from Asia ! I tell you, 
that was life ! If the flour sold was n't equal 
to the very best, they used to go for those 
poor devil officials as if Jupiter himself 
was angry with them. I remember Safinius. 
In those days he used to live down by the 
old archway, when I was a boy. He was 
hot stuff! Wherever he went he used to 
make the ground smoke. But he was per- 
fectly straight, a man to rely on, a friend 
to a friend, a chap with whom you could 
safely throw dice with your eyes shut. In 
the court-room too, how he used to make 
things hum ! And he did n't talk in figures 
either, but straight to the point, and 
when he was arguing his voice used to 
swell like a trumpet. He never used to 
hem and haw, and I think he had a touch 
of the Asiatic about him, — he was so fluent. 
How affable he was, bowing to everybody, 
and calling everybody by name just as 



io6 Trimalchio's Dinner 

though he was one of us ! In those days, 
I tell you, grain was as cheap as dirt. If 
you bought a loaf of bread for a penny, you 
could n't eat it up even if you hired an- 
other man to help you ; whereas nowadays, 
I 've seen buUs'-eyes that were bigger than 
the loaves. Dear, dear, every day things 
are getting worse ! The town is growing 
backward like a calf's tail. And why do we 
have a mayor who 's no good and who thinks 
more of a penny piece than of the lives 
of all of us ? He has a soft snap in private, 
for he takes in more money in a day than 
most of us have in our whole fortunes. / 
know one source from which he got a thou- 
sand gold pieces. If we had any spunk 
he would n't be so stuck on himself. But 
our people are lions in private and foxes 
in public. As far as I 'm concerned, I' ve 
already eaten up my wardrobe, and if this 
sort of a harvest keeps on I '11 have to sell 
my shanties. What 's going to happen if 
neither gods not men take pity on this 




Roman Barber-shop. 



Trimalchio's Dinner 107 

place? So help me gracious, I think that 
all this trouble comes from the gods, for 
nowadays nobody believes in Heaven and 
nobody cares a straw for Jove ; but every 
man-jack of them shuts his eyes and just 
keeps thinking about his own aifairs. In 
the good old days the married women used 
to go bare-footed up the Sacred Hill with 
their hair down their backs, and with pure 
souls prayed to Jupiter for rain. And then 
it used to rain by the bucketful — or if it 
did n't then, why, it never did ; and they all 
came back like drowned rats. That 's why 
the gods are stealthily dogging us to-day. 
It 's because we have n't any more religion. 
The fields are — " 

" Oh, I say," said Echion, the rag dealer, 
" do be a little more cheerful ! Sometimes 
it 's one way and sometimes it 's another, as 
the countryman said who had lost a spotted 
pig. What you don't get to-day, you '11 get 
to-morrow ; that 's the way life shogs on. 
This country 'd be all right enough if it only 



io8 Trimalchio's Dinner 

had real men. To be sure, it 's in trouble 
just at this time, but it is n't unique in that. 
We ought n't to be too finical, for Heaven 
is just as near to one place as to another. If 
you lived anywhere else, you'd be saying that 
the pigs were walking around here ready 
roasted. I tell you, we 're going to have a 
first-class show of gladiators on the next 
holiday, to last for three days. The fighters 
are not professional gladiators, but most of 
them freedmen. My friend Titus, who is 
paying for the thing, is a generous, high- 
spirited fellow. With him it 's always either 
one thing or the other, and something 
anyhow ; and I know this, for I visit at 
his house, and he 's not a changeable 
person. He 's going to provide a splendid 
bit of fighting for us with no quarter 
given, — a regular slaughter-house, so that 
every one present can see it. And he has 
the means to do it, too, for his father, who 
just died, left him thirty million sesterces, 
so that he can easily blow in four hun- 



Trimalcliio's Dinner 109 

dred thousand without his fortune's feel- 
ing it, and he '11 win an immortal reputation 
by it. He 's got together some country 
jays and a woman charioteer and Glyco's 
steward who was found to be on too inti- 
mate terms with his master's wife. You 
will see a great popular outbreak between 
the jealous husbands and the lovers, for 
Glyco, a real cad, has given his steward to 
the wild beasts, thereby giving himself away. 
How was the slave to blame who was obliged 
to do what he did ? It is really Glyco's 
slat of a wife who deserves to be tossed by 
a bull ; but when a man can't beat his mule, 
he whacks the saddle. How on earth did 
Glyco ever suppose that a daughter of 
Hermogenes could come to a good 
end ? Why, old Hermogenes would steal 
the pennies off a dead man's eyes, and you 
know that like begets like. The fact is, 
Glyco has fouled his own nest, and as long 
as he lives he will have the disgrace of it, 
so that nothing but death can ever take it 



no Trimalchio's Dinner 

away. But every man sins to his own hurt. 
I have a sort of suspicion, by the way, that 
Mammaea is going to give us a feast with a 
present of money at the end of it. If he 
does, he '11 take the wind out of Norbanus's 
sails and beat him hands down. For the 
matter of that, Norbanus never did much 
for us anyhow. When he gave a show he 
brought out some tupenny-ha'penny gladi- 
ators so feeble that if you 'd blown on them 
they would have fallen flat. I 've seen far 
better men fed to the wild beasts. His 
mounted fighters were as much like the real 
thing as a lot of dissolving views ; you 'd 
have taken them for barnyard fowls. One 
was a regular dummy, another was lame, and 
the third was as good as dead already, for he 
had been hamstrung. There was one fellow, 
though, of some spunk, a Thracian, but even 
he fought only to order in a mechanical 
sort of way. In fact, all of them afterwards 
were soundly flogged, for the spectators all 
called out : ' Beat them and brand them ! ' 







Gladiatorial Contest. 



Trimalchio's Dinner 1 1 1 

They were every one of them quitters. Of 
course Norbanus would probably say, 'I 've 
given you an entertainment anyhow.' Then 
I should answer, ' Yes, and I 've given you 
my applause. Reckon the thing up and 
you '11 see that I 've given you more than 
I got from you.' One good turn de- 
serves another. Well, Agamemnon, you 
look as though you were saying, ' Why is this 
bore babbling ? ' Why, simply because you, 
who know how to talk book talk, won't 
speak at all. You don't belong to our set, 
and so you make fun of everything a poor 
man says. I know you 're cracked on 
account of your learning, but what good is 
it all to you ? Some day I '11 persuade you 
to come out to my country place and look 
at my humble dwelling. We '11 find some- 
thing there to chew on, — chickens and eggs, 
— and it '11 be rather nice there even 
though the drought this year has burnt 
everything brown. Still, we '11 find some- 
thing to fill our bellies with. My little 



112 Trimalchio's Dinner 

shaver is growing up to be a pupil of yours. 
Already he can say his table of four times ; 
and if he lives, you '11 find him a very 
faithful pupil, for when he has any time to 
himself he never takes his head out of a 
book. He's clever and has good stuff in 
him, though he 's crazy after pet birds. 
I 've already killed three goldfinches of his 
and told him that the weasel ate them up ; 
but he took up some other nonsense, and 
just now he 's very fond of painting. He 's 
just given Greek the go-by, and he's 
begun to take hold of Latin very well, even 
though his teacher is too easy-going and 
does n't stick to one thing, but just comes 
and sets him a lesson to learn, and never 
wants to take any pains himself. I 've also 
another tutor for him who does n't know 
very much, to be sure, but who 's very dili- 
gent and teaches more than he understands 
himself. On the quarter-days he comes to 
the house and is perfectly satisfied with what- 
ever you pay him. I 've just bought the 



Trimalchio's Dinner 113 

boy some law-books, because I want to have 
him get a little snack of law for home use, 
for this is a practical, bread-and-butter sub- 
ject. The boy has really pottered over 
literature long enough, and if he does n't 
care about it in the end, I 've decided to 
teach him a trade, — either the barber's, or 
the auctioneer's, or else the lawyer's, — and 
then nothing but death can take it from him. 
That 's why I say to him every day, ' My 
dear boy, believe me, whatever you learn 
you learn for your own good. Just look at 
Phileros, the lawyer. If he had n't learned 
law, he would n't be able to-day to keep the 
wolf from the door. Why, not very long 
ago he was carrying around goods for sale 
on his back, whereas now, he matches him- 
self even against Norbanus.' Yes, learning 
is a treasure ; but still a trade never 
dies." 

The talk was passing back and forth in 
this way when Trimalchio returned, and, 

after wiping his forehead, washed his hands in 
s 



114 Trimalchio's Dinner 

perfumed water. Then, after a moment or 
two of delay, he said : 

" You will excuse me, my friends, but 
my stomach for a good many days has been 
out of sorts, and the doctors don't know 
where they are at. However, I have been 
helped by pomegranate rind and a mixture 
of pitch and vinegar. I trust that my 
internal economy will soon feel ashamed 
of itself. Moreover there is a rumbling in 
my stomach so that you would imagine it 
to be a bull. And so if any of you wish 
to go out don't be bashful. You 'II find all 
the conveniences. Flatulence goes to the 
head and kicks up a disturbance all through 
the body. I know of a good many persons 
who have died because they were too modest 
to speak the truth." 

We thanked him for his kind generosity 
and concealed our laughter by taking numer- 
ous drinks. We had no idea, after all the 
rich things already eaten, that we had n't yet, 
as they say, reached the top of the hill ; but 







Roman Youth. 



Trimalchio's Dinner 115 

now, as soon as the table had been cleared 
off to the sound of music, three white swine 
were brought into the dining-room, deco- 
rated with muzzles and little bells. The 
slave who announced the guests said that 
one of the pigs was two years old, another 
three years old, and a third already six years 
old. I thought that rope dancers were com- 
ing in and that the pigs, as is often the case 
in the side-shows, were going to perform some 
remarkable tricks. But Trimalchio, putting 
an end to our suspense, said : 

" Which of these pigs would you like to 
have served up at once on the table ? 
Country cooks can prepare a fowl or a piece 
of beef and other trifles of that sort, but my 
cooks are accustomed to serve up whole 
calves boiled ! " 

Immediately he had the cook summoned ; 
and not waiting for us to make a choice, he 
ordered the oldest pig to be slaughtered. 
Then he asked the slave in a loud voice : 

" Which of my slave-gangs do you belong 
to?" 



1 1 6 Trimalchio's Dinner 

" The fortieth," said the cook. 

" Were you purchased for me," said Tri- 
malchio ; " or born on my estate ? " 

"Neither," replied the cook. "I was 
left to you in Pansa's will." 

" See then," said Trimalchio, " that you 
set the pig before us in good style. If you 
don't, I shall have you transferred to the 
gang of running footmen." 

So the cook, after receiving this hint of 
his master's power, led the pig away to the 
kitchen. Trimalchio, looking at us with a 
genial countenance, then remarked : 

" If the wine does n't suit you, I '11 have 
it changed; but you really must relish it. 
Thank God, I don't have to buy it ; but 
everything that can make your mouth 
water is now produced on that estate of mine 
just outside the city, which I myself have 
not yet seen. It is said to be near Tar- 
racina and Tarentum. I have a notion to 
add Sicily to my estates, so that when I 
take it into my head to go to Africa, I can 



Trimalchio's Dinner 117 

sail between my own possessions. But tell 
me, Agamemnon, what rhetorical debate did 
you take part in to-day ? For even though 
I don't plead cases myself, I have, neverthe- 
less, some learning for home use. You are 
not to suppose that I think little of study. 
I have two libraries, one in Greek and one 
in Latin. So tell me, please, the subject of 
your debate." 

"The subject," said Agamemnon, "is 
this, — ' A poor man and a rich man were 
enemies — ' " 

" What on earth is a poor man ? " in- 
terrupted Trimalchio. 

" Oh, how witty ! " cried out Agamemnon ; 
and he went on to explain the subject of his 
argument. But Trimalchio at once inter- 
rupted him again and said: 

"If all this really happened, there is no 
question to debate. If it didn't really 
happen, then there is nothing in it at all." 

We received these and other sallies of his 
with the most effusive compliments. 



1 1 8 Trimalchio's Dinner 

" Tell me," said he, " my dear Agamem- 
non, do you remember the Twelve Labours 
of Hercules, or the story of Ulysses, and 
how the Cyclops twisted his thumb after he 
had been turned into a pig ? When I was 
a boy I used to read these things in 
Homer ; and with my own eyes I once saw 
the Sibyl at Cumae hanging in a great jar, 
and when the young men asked her, * Sibyl, 
what do you want ? ' she said, ' I want to 
die.' " 

He had not yet finished blowing, when 
a tray was placed upon the table containing 
an immense pig. We fell to wondering at 
the rapidity with which it had been cooked ; 
for we vowed that not even a barnyard fowl 
could have been thoroughly done in so 
short a time ; and we wondered all the more 
because the pig seemed to us to be consider- 
ably larger than the live pig had appeared to 
be a little while before. Then Trimalchio 
looking more and more intently at it said : 

"What? What? Hasn't this pig been 



Trimalchio's Dinner 119 

drawn ? No, by Jove, it has n't ! Just call 
the cook in." 

Then when the cook, looking very much 
disconcerted, came to the table and admitted 
that he had forgotten to draw the pig, Tri- 
malchio called out, — 

" What ? Forgotten ? One would imagine 
that this fellow had never handled pepper 
and salt. Strip him ! " 

Immediately the cook was stripped of his 
outer garments, and took his place in a de- 
jected way between two slaves whose duty it 
was to administer a flogging. All the guests 
began to beg him off and said, — 

" This sort of thing often happens. We 
beg you, let him off, and if he should 
ever do it again, none of us will plead for 
him." 

I, however, being a man of unflinching 
sternness, could not restrain myself, but 
putting my mouth to Agamemnon's ear, 
said, — 

" Really, this must be a most worthless 



I20 Trimalchio's Dinner 

slave. Could any one really forget to draw 
a pig ? By Jove, I would n't forgive him if 
he had forgotten to clean even a fish." 

But not so Trimalchio, whose countenance 
relaxed into a genial expression as he said, — 

"Well, since your memory is so bad, just 
draw him here in our presence." 

So the cook put on his tunic and, seizing 
his knife, cut into the pig's stomach this way 
and that way with a careful hand. Instantly, 
after the cuts had been made and by reason 
of the pressure from within, sausages of 
various kinds came tumbling out. The 
whole company broke out into spontaneous 
applause and called out : 

" Good for Gaius ! " 

The cook was rewarded with a drink, a 
silver crown,, and a cup on a salver of Cor- 
inthian bronze. As Agamemnon began to 
examine this salver very closely, Trimalchio 
remarked : 

" I 'm the only person who has genuine 
Corinthian bronze." 



Trimalchio's Dinner 121 

I imagined that, in accordance with the 
rest of his conceit, he was going to say that 
his bronze had been brought to him from 
Corinth ; but he gave the thing a better turn 
than that by saying : 

"Perhaps you would like to know why 
I 'm the only man who has true Corinthian 
bronze. Well, it 's because the bronze- 
dealer from whom I buy it is called Corin- 
thus ; for how can anything be Corinthian 
unless one has a Corinthus to make it ? 
And lest you imagine that I 'm an ignorant 
person, I '11 let you know that I under- 
stand how Corinthian bronze first came to 
be made. When Troy was taken, Hannibal, 
a clever fellow, and a sly dog, had all the 
bronze and gold and silver statues heaped 
up into one pile and built a fire under them. 
The various metals all melted down into a 
single one, and then from the blended mass 
the artisans took metal and made dishes, and 
plates, and statuettes. That 's the way that 
Corinthian bronze was first produced, — a 



122 Trimalchio's Dinner 

single metal made out of all the others and 
itself neither one nor the other. You will 
excuse me for what I am going to say, but 
for my part I prefer vessels of glass, for they 
have no smell to them. Indeed, if they 
could n't be broken, I should prefer them 
even to gold. But now, of course, they 're 
cheap. Nevertheless, there once lived an 
artisan who made a glass bottle that could n't 
possibly be broken. He gained admission to 
the emperor's presence with his invention; and 
making as if to hand it over to Caesar, he let 
it fall on the stone floor. Caesar naturally 
supposed that it had been broken, but the 
artisan picked up the bottle from the floor, 
and, lo and behold, it was simply dented like 
a vessel of bronze. Then, taking a little 
hammer from his pocket, he straightened the 
bottle out with perfect ease. He naturally 
thought that he had made a great hit, espe- 
cially after Csesar asked him, — 

" * Does any one else understand this man- 
ner of making glass ? ' 



Trimalchio's Dinner 123 

" Listen now : when the workman had 
said no, Caesar ordered him to be beheaded, 
because if the secret of this manufacture 
should leak out, gold would becomes as 
cheap as dirt. I 'm a good deal of a con- 
noisseur in silver. I have a hundred large 
goblets, more or less, made of that metal, 
on which Cassandra is represented as killing 
her sons, and the dead boys are depicted so 
vividly that you would think they were 
alive. I have also a thousand sacrificial 
bowls which Mummius left to my former 
owner, and on which is shown Daedalus 
shutting up Niobe in the Trojan Horse. I 
have, too, the battles of Hermeros and of 
Petrais depicted on drinking-cups, all of 
them very heavy. In fact, I would n't sell 
my special knowledge for any money." 

While he was saying this, a boy let a cup 
fall on the floor. Looking at him Tri- 
malchio said: 

"Be off quickly and commit suicide, for 
you 're a fool ! " 



124 Trimalchio's Dinner 

Immediately the boy, with quivering lip, 
began to beg. Trimalchio asked : 

" Why do you beg of me as though / 
had done anything to you ? I advise you to 
beg of yourself not to be such a fool." 

At length, however, persuaded by us, he 
let off the boy, who at once ran about the 
table, while Trimalchio exclaimed, — 

" Out with the water and in with the 
wine ! " 

We applauded his witty geniality, and 
especially did Agamemnon applaud it, for 
he knew by what sort of services he would 
get another invitation to dinner. Trimal- 
chio, after having been duly flattered, fell to 
drinking merrily, and now being nearly 
drunk, he said : 

" Are n't any of you going to ask my 
Fortunata to dance for you? Believe me, 
no one can do the coochee-coochee better than 
she." 

And spreading his hands above his head, 
he gave us an imitation of Syrus, the 



Trimalchio's Dinner 125 

actor, while all his slaves droned out 
together, — 

" Well done, by Jove ! Well done ! " 
In fact he would have stood forth in the 
midst of us to give his exhibition, had not 
Fortunata said something in his ear, and, as 
I imagine, reminded him that such trifling 
follies did not befit his dignity. He was 
really very inconsistent ; for at one moment 
he seemed to be in awe of Fortunata, and at 
another moment to revert to his own natural 
ways. Presently, however, the keeper of his 
official records checked Trimalchio's desire 
for dancing by coming in and reading these 
records aloud as though they were the 
annals of the city. 

" July 26th : on the estate at Cumae 
which appertains to Trimalchio, born thirty 
male slaves and forty female slaves ; trans- 
ferred to the granary from the threshing 
floor, five hundred thousand measures of 
wheat; broken in, five hundred oxen. On 
the aforesaid day : the slave Mithridates 



126 Trimalchio's Dinner 

suffered crucifixion as having in conversation 
been guilty of lese majesty against our master 
Gaius. On the aforesaid day : placed in the 
safe, as having been found impossible to in- 
vest, one hundred thousand sesterces. On 
the aforesaid day : a fire took place in the 
gardens at Pompeii, originating in the house 
of the steward Nasta." 

" How ? " exclaimed Trimalchio. " When 
were gardens at Pompeii purchased for 
me ? " 

" Last year," replied the keeper of the 
records ; " and sa they have not yet been 
entered upon your accounts." 

Trimalchio grew hot with anger. 

" Unless I shall be informed within six 
months of any estates that have been pur- 
chased for me," cried he, " I forbid them to 
be carried to my account." 

Presently, also,, there were read aloud the 
proclamations of Trimalchio's agents, and the 
wills of his rangers by which Trimalchio 
received no legacy but a very eulogistic 



Trimalchio's Dinner 127 

mention; and there were further read the 
names of his stewards, and how a freed- 
woman who had been caught with a bath- 
ing attendant had been divorced by her 
husband, the watchman ; and how a jan- 
itor had been exiled to Baias ; and how a 
steward had been put on trial ; and how a 
judgment had been rendered with regard to 
the chamberlains. 

After this, acrobats were introduced. A 
most uninteresting performer took his stand 
by a ladder and caused a boy to mount the 
rungs and to do a song-and-dance on the top 
one, after which he leaped through blazing 
hoops holding a wine jar in his teeth. Tri- 
malchio was the only one of the company 
who admired these feats ; and he remarked 
that it was a thankless occupation, but that 
there were just two things in the world that 
gave him the very greatest pleasure to 
witness, — acrobats and quail-fights, — while 
all other diversions were idle follies. 

" I myself purchased," he said, " some 



128 Trimalchio's Dinner 

slaves who were good actors of Greek 
comedies ; but I prefer to have them take 
part in Latin plays, and I have given in- 
structions to my Greek flute-player to per- 
form only Latin music." 

At the moment that he was saying this, 
the performing boy fell from above and 
struck Trimalchio on the neck. Both 
slaves and guests cried out, not for the sake 
of their absurd host whose neck they would 
gladly have seen broken, but because the 
accident seemed to involve an unfortunate 
ending to the dinner and to make it neces- 
sary for them to lament a death. After 
Trimalchio himself had groaned deeply and 
had bent himself double over his arm as 
though it had been injured, his medical 
attendants rushed in ; and Fortunata especi- 
ally, with dishevelled hair and carrying a 
pitcher in her hand, declared herself the 
most unhappy and unfortunate of women. 
The boy who had fallen went about and, 
kneeling at our feet, begged forgiveness. 




Interior of Roman House. 



Trimalchio's Dinner 129 

What struck me most unpleasantly was 
the thought, in the midst of his prayers, that 
some absurd proceeding was intended at the 
critical moment; for I had still a lively 
recollection of the cook who had forgotten 
to draw the pig. And so I began to let my 
glance rove over the dining-room lest some 
automaton should come through the wall ; 
and my suspicion was enhanced after I 
noticed one of the slaves get a beating for 
wrapping up his master's injured arm with 
plain white, rather than with purple-dyed, 
wool. Nor was I very far astray ; for, in 
place of punishment, Trimalchio issued an 
order that the boy should immediately re- 
ceive his freedom lest any one should after- 
wards be able to say that so great a man as 
Trimalchio had been injured by a slave. 

We admired this act of his, and then 
Segan chattering on the subject of the muta- 
bility of human fortune. 

" Really," said Trimalchio, " we must not 
let this accident pass without an epigram." 
9 



130 Trimalchio's Dinner 

And immediately he called for tablets, 
and after racking his brains for a little while, 
read us out the following lines : 

" What you expect turns out some other way. 
For Chance it is that rules us day by day. 
Then fill the cup, my boy, and let 's be gay! " 

This epigram of his led us to mention 
the poets ; and for some time perfection 
in poetry was ascribed to Mopsus, the 
Thracian, until Trimalchio observed : 

" Tell me, Agamemnon, wherein do you 
find the chief distinction between Cicero and 
the comic writer, Publilius Syrus ? For my 
part I think that Cicero was more elegant 
and Publilius more noble. Can anything be 
better than these lines ? 

" ' The walls of Ronle are crumbling to decay. 
Fated to fall while Luxury holds sway. 
The gorgeous peacock, tipped with feathery gold, 
Now for thy palate must be bred and sold ; 
The pheasant also and the capon rare — 
Are all for thee who knowest naught to spare. 
E'en the poor stork, that welcome foreign guest. 
Must in thy ketde build its final nest, — 



Trimalchio's Dinner 131 

Haunter of temples, graceful on the wing. 
Exile of winter, harbinger of spring. 

" ' Why dost thou make the Indian pearl thy care ? 
Is it alone for modest maids to wear ? 
Lustrous it gleams upon the matron's head. 
While she goes shameless to a stranger's bed. 
Why dost thou prize the emerald's vivid green ? 
Canst thou learn Virtue from its lucent sheen ? 
Why dost thou seek the ruby's- worth to know ? 
Does Honour sparkle in its fiery glow ? 

" ' Nay, the young bride, of stainless race and proud. 
Clothed like a harlot in a flaxen cloud 
Or woven wind, goes forth with sullied name. 
Bold-eyed to tread the path of public shame ! ' 

" What are we to suppose," said he, 
" next to literature, to be the most difficult 
trade ? / think the doctor's trade and the 
money-changer's. The doctor's, because he 
knows what we poor mortals have in our 
insides, and when a fever is going to come 
on. To be sure, I hate doctors awfully 
myself, because they so often put me on a 
diet of duck's meat. And I think the 
money-changer's trade is difficult, because he 



132 Trimalchio's Dinner 

has to look through silver and see the brass 
underneath. The most painstaking of the 
dumb beasts are oxen and sheep, — the oxen, 
through whose kindly toil we have bread to 
eat, and the sheep because by their wool they 
clothe us so splendidly. It 's really a great 
shame that any one ever eats mutton and 
wears a coat. As for bees, I think that these 
creatures are really divine, because they can 
spit up honey, although the general opinion 
is that honey is given them by Jupiter ; and 
they have a sting because, according to the 
saying, ' There 's no rose without thorns.' " 

My friend Ascyltos, a fellow who never 
restrains himself, made fun of all this pros- 
ing, stretching out his hands and laughing 
until he cried, whereupon one of Trimal- 
chio's fellow freedmen, who was placed next 
to me, grew very angry and called out, — 

" What are you laughing at, you mutton 
head? Doesn't his honour's elegant style 
satisfy you ? I suppose you are richer than 
he and are accustomed to dine in better 



Trimalchio's Dinner 133 

style ! So help me Heaven, if I were next 
to this fellow I 'd have stopped his blatting 
long ago. He 's a daisy, is n't he, to be 
laughing at other men, this tramp, this 
fly-by-night, who is n't worth his salt ! 
I 'm not accustomed to get angry easily, 
but in tender meat maggots are easily pro- 
duced. He 's laughing, is he ? What has 
he got to laugh at ? He is n't so preci- 
ous, is he, that his father had to buy 
him for money ? Oh yes, you 're a Roman 
knight ! Well, I 'm the son of a king. I 
suppose you ask, then, why I was ever a 
slave. I '11 tell you. I became a slave of 
my own free will and then had myself set free, 
because I preferred to be. a Roman citizen 
rather than a tributary king ; and now I 
imagine that I 'm living such a life as to be 
nobody's fool. I 'm as good as any other 
man and I go about with my head in the 
air. I don't owe any one a red cent. I 've 
never had a summons served on me. No 
one has ever had to say to me in the Forum, 



134 Trimalchio's Dinner 

'Pay up.' I've bought a little ground, 
I 've scraped together a little cash, and now 
I keep twenty slaves and a dog. I bought 
my sweetheart's freedom too, so that no one 
should have the right to wipe his hands on 
her head. I paid a thousand denarii for her. 
I was made a commissioner without having 
to buy the honour ; and I think that when I 
come to die I '11 not have to blush for myself 
after I 'm dead. But you are such a Paul 
Pry that you don't have time to see your own 
faults. You see a mote in another man's eye, 
but you never see the beam in your own. 
You 're the one and only person to whom we 
seem laughable. Here 's your teacher, a 
man better born than you, and we are quite 
good enough for him. You great baby ! you 
have n't sense enough to say boo to a goose 
— a cheap creature, a regular thong-in-water, 
softer than we but not sounder. You 're very 
rich, are you ? Very well, can you eat more 
meals on that account ? I regard my credit 
as far better than riches, and I should like to 



Trimalchio's Dinner 135 

know whether any one has ever had to dun me 
for his money. I was a slave for forty years, 
but now no one cares whether I was a slave or 
a freeman. I came to this town when I was 
a long-haired boy, before the town hall was 
built, and I worked diligently to please my 
owner who was a very majestical and digni- 
ferous man. His little finger was worth more 
than your whole body. I had enemies in his 
house who tried to trip me up now and 
then ; but nevertheless, thanks to him, I came 
out all right in the end. These things are 
real tests, for it 's just as easy to be born 
a gentleman as it is to say Jack Robinson. 
Well, what are you gaping at now like a goat 
in a garden ? " 

At this outbreak, Giton, who was standing 
behind us and who had for a long time been 
suppressing his laughter, now burst into a 
most unbecoming guffaw. When the guest 
who had been reviling Ascyltos noticed this, 
he directed his invective upon the boy, and 
called out, — 



136 Trimalchio's Dinner 

" And you 're laughing, too, are you, you 
curly onion ? Well, I should like to know 
whether it 's the month of December when 
the slaves are allowed to do as they please. 
When were joa set free ? What have you got 
to do with this affair, anyhow, you gallows 
bird, — you food for crows ! May Jupiter 
confound you and this master of yours who 
does n't restrain you ! May I never have 
bread to eat if I 'm not really repressing 
myself out of regard to Trimalchio. If it 
had n't been for his presence, I 'd have given 
you your deserts long ago. There 's really 
nothing the matter with us, but only with 
these worthless fools here who don't keep 
you in check. The old saying is very true, 
' Like master, like man.' It 's hard for me 
to control my feelings, and yet I 'm not 
naturally hot-headed ; only, when I once get 
started, I 'd throw stones at my grand- 
mother. All right ! I '11 see you outside, you 
rat, you toadstool ! May I never grow 
another inch if I don't knock your master 




s 
o 

OS 



Trimalchio's Dinner 137 

into a cocked hat; and I won't let up on 
you, either, even if you should pray to 
Olympian Jove. I '11 knock your head off 
and your worthless master's too. Yes, yes, 
I '11 put you under the harrow. Either I 
don't know myself, or else you'll have to 
stop laughing at us, even though your beard 
should be gilded like a god's. I '11 do you 
up and the man who brought you here, too. 
Maybe I don't know geometry and criticism 
and all those senseless follies, but I can read 
print and I understand fractions, and weights, 
and coinage. In fact, if you want to, I 'II 
make a little bet with you and put up the 
money, and you shall find out that your 
father wasted whatever he spent on making 
you a scholar. I say this to you : 

" ' What do you want of me ? I have a long 
reach and a wide sweep. Mind your eye ! ' 

That's what I say to you when you go 
scurrying around and yet don 't gain an inch. 
You pufF yourself up and yet you look 



138 Trimalchio's Dinner 

meaner and meaner all the time. You dart 
here and there, you gape, you bustle about 
like a mouse in a match-box, so you 'd better 
shut up or else stop annoying a man who is 
better than you are and who does n't take 
the trouble to think of you. Perhaps you 
imagine that I 'm impressed by those wooden 
armlets of yours which you swiped from 
your mistress ! Just let 's go to the Forum 
and try to borrow money, and then you '11 
find out that my name has some value. 
Pah ! a sick chicken like you is a fine thing, 
is n't it ? May I never make another cent, 
and may I die in disgrace, if I don't run you 
out of the place ! And this master of yours, 
who puts you up to all these things, he 's a 
daisy, is n't he ? He 's more of a mug than 
a master. I 've had some education myself, 
for my teacher used to say to me, * Is every- 
thing all right? Straight home now. See 
that you don't go staring around or speaking 
disrespectfully to your betters, or stop and 
look in the shop windows ! ' No second- 



Trimalchio's Dinner 139 

rate person ever graduated from that school. 
I thank God that my trade has made me 
what I am." 

Ascyltos was starting in to answer this 
tirade when Trimalchio, greatly tickled by 
his friend's flow of language, said : 

" Oh, come ! stop your quarrelling and 
let's have things pleasant. And you, Her- 
meros, let up on the young fellow. He 's hot- 
blooded, but you ought to be more sensible. 
The man who comes off best in this sort of 
thing really comes off worst. And when you 
were a young rooster you, too, used to crow 
away and had n't any sense. So let 's all be 
happy from the word go, which is much more 
sensible, and listen to the Homeric actors." 

A troupe immediately came in, clattering 
their shields and spears. Trimalchio sat up 
on his couch, and while the Homeric actors 
in a pompous fashion began a dialogue in 
Greek verse, he read a book aloud in Latin 
with a singsong tone of voice. Presently, 
when the rest had become silent, he said : 



140 Trimalchio's Dinner 

" Do you know what play they 're acting ? 
Diomede and Ganymede were two brothers. 
Their sister was Helen. Agamemnon carried 
her off and put a deer in her place for Diana, 
and so now Homer explains how the 
Trojans and the Parentines are waging war. 
Agamemnon, you must know, came off victor 
and gave his daughter Iphigenia to be the 
wife of Achilles. Thereupon Ajax went 
mad, and presently now will show us the 
denouement." 

As Trimalchio said this, the Homeric 
actors set up a shout, and while the slaves 
bustled about, a boiled calf was brought on 
in an enormous dish and with a helmet placed 
upon it. The actor who took the part of 
Ajax followed with a drawn sword, fell upon 
it as though he were mad, and hacking this 
way and that he cut up the calf and offered 
the bits to us on the point of his sword, to 
our great surprise. 

We had no time to admire these elegant 
proceedings, for all of a sudden the ceiling 




s 

o 

(A 



Trimalchio's Dinner 141 

of the room began to rumble and the whole 
dining-room shook. In consternation I 
jumped up, fearing lest some acrobat should 
come down through the roof; and all the 
other guests in surprise looked upward as 
though they expected some miracle from 
heaven. But lo and behold ! the panels of 
the ceiling slid apart, and suddenly a great 
hoop as though shaken off from a hogshead 
was let down, having gold crowns with jars 
of perfume hanging about its entire circum- 
ference. These things we were invited to 
accept as keepsakes, and presently a tray 
was set before us full of cakes with an image 
of Priapus as a centre-piece made of con- 
fectionery and holding in its generous bosom 
apples of every sort and grapes, in the usual 
fashion, as being the god of gardens. We 
eagerly snatched at this magnificent display, 
and suddenly renewed our mirth at discov- 
ering a novel trick ; for all the cakes and 
all the apples, when pressed the least bit, 
squirted forth saffron-water into our faces. 



142 Trimalchio's Dinner 

Thinking that there was something of a 
religious turn to a course that was so suggest- 
ive of divine worship, we all rose up together 
and pronounced the formula, " Success to 
Augustus, Father of his Country ! " But 
some of us, even after this solemn act, 
snatched up the apples and filled our napkins 
with them to carry away, — a thing which 
I did myself, for I thought that I could 
not heap up enough presents in Giton's 
lap. 

While this was going on, three slaves 
dressed in white tunics entered, two of whom 
placed images of the household gods upon 
the table, and the other one carrying around 
a bowl of wine called out : " God bless us 
all ! " Trimalchio told us that one image 
was the image of the God of Business, the 
second the image of the God of Luck, and 
the third the image of the God of Gain. 
There was a very striking bust of Trimalchio 
also, and as everybody else kissed it, I was 
ashamed not to do the same. 



Trimalchio's Dinner 143 

Presently, after all of us had invoked 
health and happiness for ourselves, Trimal- 
chio, looking in the direction of Niceros, 
said : 

" You used to be better dinner-company. 
Somehow or other now, though, you 're 
absolutely mum and don't open your head. 
I beg you, if you wish to oblige me, tell me 
some of your experiences." 

Niceros, flattered by the notice of his friend, 
said: 

" May I never make another farthing if 
I am not bursting with joy to see you in 
such good form ; so let 's be as happy as we 
can, though I am awfully afraid of these 
learned persons present for fear they should 
laugh at me. However, that 's their affair. 
I '11 spin my yarn all the same ; for what 
harm does any one do me who laughs at me ? 
It's a great deal better to be laughed at, 
than to be laughed down." 

And then he began the following story : 

" When I was still a slave I used to live 



144 Trimalchio's Dinner 

in a little street where Gavilla lives now. At 
that time, as the gods would have it, I fell 
in love with the wife of Terence, the inn- 
keeper. You must have known her, — her 
name was Melissa, a native of Tarentum, 
and a very kissable girl, too. Yet there 
wasn't anything wrong in my love for her, 
but I just liked her because she had such 
nice ways. Whatever I asked of her she 
gave me. If she made a penny she gave me 
half of it, and whatever I had I turned over 
to her to keep for me, and never was cheated. 
As it happened, her husband died at his 
place in the country and so I tried by hook 
and by crook to get to her, for you know a 
friend in need is a friend indeed. As chance 
would have it, my master had gone to Capua 
to look after some wares ; and so, seizing the 
opportunity, I asked a man who was staying 
with us to go with me as far as the fifth mile- 
stone. He was a soldier, as bold as hell. 
We set off about cock-crow, while the moon 
was still shining as bright as mid-day. At 



Trimalchio's Dinner 145 

last we came to a cemetery and my com- 
panion went off among the tombstones, 
while I took a rest, humming a tune 
and counting the monuments. Presently, 
when I looked at my companion, he had 
undressed and had put all his clothes by the 
roadside. My heart was in my mouth, and 
I sat there like a dead man ; but he walked 
around his clothes and all of a sudden was 
turned into a wolf. Now don't imagine that 
I 'm fooling you, for I would n't tell any lies 
for the world. But, as I was going on to say 
just now, he was turned into a wolf, and began 
to howl, and then ran off into the woods. At 
first I did n't know where I was at, but when 
I went up to his clothes to pick them up, — 
lo and behold, they had all been turned into 
stone ! Well, I was about ready to die of 
fright, but I drew my sword and all along 
the road I cut and thrust at every shadow 
until I reached my friend's house. When I 
entered as pale as a ghost I almost fainted. 
The sweat was running down my crotch, my 



146 Trimalchio's Dinner 

eyes were fixed, and it was with the greatest 
difficulty that I was brought to. Melissa 
wondered at me to think that I was out so 
late and she said, ' If you 'd only come sooner 
you might have been of some help to us; 
for a wolf has just entered the grounds and 
attacked our flocks and made them bleed 
like a butcher. He did n't get off unhurt, 
however, for one of my slaves stuck him in 
the neck with a spear.' After I had heard 
this I could n't close my eyes ; but as soon as 
it was bright daylight, I hurried home like a 
plundered pedlar ; and when I came to the 
place where the clothes had been turned into 
stone I found nothing there but a pool of 
blood. But when I reached home, there lay 
my friend the soldier, in his bed like a stuck 
pig with the doctor putting a plaster on his 
neck. Then I knew that he was a were- 
wolf, and from that day on I could n't have 
eaten a mouthfiil of bread with him even if 
you had killed me. I leave it to others to 
say what they think of this ; but if I 've lied 



Trimalchio's Dinner 147 

to you I hope your honours will have noth- 
ing more whatever to do with me." 

After we had all expressed our wonder, 
Trimalchio remarked : 

"If you '11 believe me, my hair stood on 
end, because I know that Niceros never tells 
any idle yarns, but he 's a straightforward 
fellow, and by no means fond of hearing 
himself talk. Now I 'm going to tell you a 
frightful thing myself, as strange as an ass 
on the house-tops. When I was still a long- 
haired boy — for even from early youth I 
led a pretty gay life — my master's favourite 
died, a regular jewel, a rare fellow, and one 
that could turn his hand to anything. His 
poor mother was mourning over him and we 
were all of us in a very sad state of mind, 
when suddenly we heard witches shrieking so 
that you would imagine that it was a pack of 
hounds chasing a hare. We had with us 
at <-hat time a Cappadocian, a tall fellow, 
very bold and so strong that he could have 
picked up a mad bull. He drew his sword 



148 Trimalchio's Dinner 

valiantly, rushed out of the house, and, wrap- 
ping his left arm carefully in his cloak, he 
thrust a hag right through the middle. We 
heard a groan yet, (really, I 'm not lying) we 
could n't see the witches themselves. Pre- 
sently, however, our man came in again 
and threw himself down on the bed, and — 
lo and behold, his body was all black and 
blue as though it had been scourged because, 
no doubt, an evil hand had touched him ! 
Closing the door, we went on about our 
business, but when the mother went to em- 
brace her son's body, she touched it and 
found nothing but a dummy made of litter, 
with no heart, no vitals, nothing at all. So 
you see that the witches had swooped down 
on the boy and put a puppet in his place. 
Believe me, there are witches, real night hags, 
and they turn everything upside down. But 
as for this stout fellow of ours, after what had 
happened he never came to himself again, 
and after a few days he died raving crazy." 
We all expressed alike our wonder and 




o 

2 
< 



s 

o 



O 



Trimalchio's Dinner 149 

our entire belief, and we touched the table 
with our lips, begging the night hags to stay 
in their own haunts when the time came for 
us to go home from dinner. Then the 
lights seemed to me to blaze up in an uncom- 
mon way and the whole dining-room to be 
transformed in appearance, when Trimalchio 
observed : 

" I say, Plocamus, have n't you anything 
to tell us ? Are n't you going to contribute 
to our entertainment ? You used to be bet- 
ter company and ready to chat delightfully, 
and you were quite ready also to sing a 
song. Dear, dear, ' where are the snows of 
yester-year ? ' " 

"Well," said Plocamus, "my sporting 
days were over as soon as I had the gout. 
Before that, and when I was a young man, 
I used to sing so much that I almost got 
consumption. And as to dancing and talk- 
ing and gossiping, I never met my match 
except in Apelles." 

And putting his hands up to his mouth 



150 Trimalchio's Dinner 

he wheezed forth some tiresome thing which 
he afterwards said was Greek. 

Trimalchio himself then gave us an imita- 
tion of trumpet-blowing, and after he had 
finished he cast his eyes on his favourite 
slave whom he called Croesus, but who was, 
in fact, a blear-eyed fellow with discoloured 
teeth, and at this moment occupied with 
a small dog, black and disagreeably fat. 
This beast he was rolling on the couch in a 
green rug and was stuffing him with a great 
hunk of bread until the animal refused to 
swallow another mouthful. The sight of 
him reminded Trimalchio of a dog of his 
own, and he directed his Scylax to be led 
in, describing him as " the guardian of my 
house and home." Immediately a dog of 
monstrous size and fastened by a chain was 
led in, and after having been kicked by 
the door-keeper to make him lie down, he 
took up his place before the table, where- 
upon Trimalchio, throwing a piece of white 
bread to him, observed : 



Trimalchio's Dinner 151 

" There is no one in my house that loves 
me more." 

On this the slave, enraged to think that 
his master was praising Scylax so efRisively, 
put his own little dog on the floor and 
"sicked" him on to fight. Scylax in the 
usual canine fashion filled the whole dining- 
room with the most terrific barking, and 
almost tore in pieces the smaller dog belong- 
ing to Croesus and named by him " Pearl." 
The noise, however, was not restricted to 
the combat, but at the same time a branched 
candlestick was upset on the table breaking 
all the glass dishes and spattering a number 
of the guests with hot oil. Trimalchio, 
however, not wishing to seem troubled by 
the loss of the dishes, kissed the slave who 
was responsible for the uproar and made him 
climb up on his back as if to play horse, 
which he immediately did, and struck Tri- 
malchio's shoulders with his clenched fist, 
calling out with a laugh : 

" Button, button, who 's got the button ? " 



152 Trimalchio's Dinner 

After a while, however, Trimalchio made 
him get down, and had a huge bowl of wine 
mixed which he caused to be divided among 
all the slaves who were on duty, adding this 
proviso : 

" If any one is n't willing to drink this, 
then pour it over his head. There 's a time 
to play and a time to be serious." 

After this refined exhibition, some special 
dainties were put upon the table, the very 
recollection of which, if you will believe me, 
makes me ill ; for in place of dainty little 
thrushes there were fat hens, and also goose 
eggs prepared with pastry, all of which Tri- 
malchio earnestly begged us to eat, saying 
that the fowls had been boned. "While this 
was still going on, a lictor knocked on the 
dining-room door, and, immediately after, a 
guest clothed in white and with a long retinue 
entered. Impressed by the dignity of his 
appearance, I imagined that the praetor of 
the city had arrived ; and so I tried to get 
up and set foot on the floor even though 



Trimalchio's Dinner 153 

I had not my slippers on. Agamemnon, 
however, laughed at my excitement, saying : 

" Hold on, you fool ! It 's Habinnas, 
the commissioner, a stone-cutter by trade, 
who is thought to make a superior quality of 
tombstones." 

Reassured by this explanation, I resumed 
my place and gazed at Habinnas, as he en- 
tered, with profound admiration. He, being 
about half seas over, leaned his arm on his 
wife's shoulder ; and wearing several crowns 
on his head and with ointment streaming 
down his forehead into his eyes, he took a 
place at the table and immediately called for 
wine and hot water. Tickled by his jovi- 
ality, Trimalchio himself called for a still 
larger goblet than the one he had, and asked 
Habinnas what sort of a reception he had 
met with at the house from which he had 
just come. 

"Oh," said Habinnas, "we had every- 
thing there that we wanted except you ; for 
my heart was here all the time. But, by Jove, 



1 54 Trimalchio's Dinner 

it was n't a bad lay-out ! Scissa was giving a 
funeral dinner in honour of a slave of his 
whom he had freed just as the poor fellow 
was dying ; and I imagine that he is getting 
quite a neat sum for his share of the dead 
man's property, for they say that he was 
rated at fifty thousand sesterces. Anyhow, 
everything went off well, even though we 
were obliged, according to custom, to pour 
half of all the drinks that we took over the 
dead man's bones." 

" Yes, yes," said Trimalchio ; " but what 
had you for dinner ? " 

" Oh, I '11 tell you if I can. I have such 
a memory that sometimes really I can't re- 
call my own name. Let 's see. We had 
for the first course pork washed down with 
wine, and cheese cakes and chicken livers, 
mighty well cooked, and also beets and 
graham bread, which for my part I prefer 
to white for it makes you strong and helps 
along your digestion. The next course con- 
tained little tarts with a hot sauce of honey 



Trimalchio's Dinner 155 

and first-rate Spanish wine. As for the tarts, 
I didn't eat a mouthful of them, but I just 
smeared myself up with the honey, I can 
tell you ! At the same time, there were 
peas and nuts, and apples for each of us. 
I carried off two of these last, and I have 
them here in my napkin. Just look, for if 
I should n't carry away home something for 
my pet slave, I should get a blowing up, 
and my wife here reminded me of it just in 
time. We had set before us also a piece 
of bear's meat. When Scintilla had unwisely 
eaten some of this, she nearly threw up 
her insides. For my part, however, I ate 
more than a pound, for it tasted like wild 
boar ; and if, says I, a bear eats a man, all the 
more ought a man to eat a bear when he gets 
a chance. Finally we had pot-cheese, and 
jelly, and snails, and a dish of heart and 
liver, and eggs and turnips, and some kind 
of a dish fixed up with mustard, — but 
so much for that. There were also oflFered 
to us in a dish pickled olives, of which 



156 Trimalchio's Dinner 

some one who had no manners took three 
fistfuls, for we gave the go-by to the ham. 
But tell me, Gaius, please, why is n't For- 
tunata at the table ? " 

" Oh," said Trimalchio, " you know her 
ways. Unless she gets the silver together 
and divides scrapings from the plates among 
the slaves, she won't drink a drop." 

" Well," repHed Habinnas, " unless she 
does come to the table, I 'm going to clear 
out. 

And he would have started to get up 
had not Fortunata, as soon as a signal was 
given, been called for four times by all of 
the slaves present. On this she came in 
with a bright yellow belt on, fastened in 
such a way that her cherry-coloured tunic 
and twisted anklets and gilded shoes were 
plainly visible. 

Wiping her hands on her handkerchief 
which she wore tucked into her neck, she 
went to the couch on which Scintilla, the 
wife of Habinnas, was reclining ; and when 



Trimalchio's Dinner 157 

Scintilla began to admire her clothes, she 
kissed her, saying: 

" Well, so I see you again, do I ? " 

Their talk presently became so intimate 
that Fortunata began drawing off the brace- 
lets from her pudgy arms and showed them 
to the admiring Scintilla. Finally she even 
took off her necklace and her gold hair- 
net, which she said was eighteen carats 
fine. Trimalchio, observing this, ordered 
all these ornaments to be brought to him, 
and remarked : 

" You see here a woman's fetters. That 's 
the way we merchantmen are robbed. She 's 
bound to have six pounds and a half of 
gold on her. I myself have a bracelet of 
no less than ten pounds' weight, bought out 
of the profits dedicated to the god Mercury." 

And then, lest he should seem to be 
exaggerating, he called for a balance and had 
it carried around so that the weight might 
be verified by all of us. With equal taste. 
Scintilla, taking from her neck a little gold 



158 Trimalchio's Dinner 

case which she called her mascot, extracted 
from it a couple of ear-rings, which in her 
turn she gave Fortunata to look at, saying : 

"Thanks to my husband's kindness, no 
woman has finer ones." 

" Yes, yes," said Habinnas ; " you 
wheedled me into buying you these glass 
beans. Really, if I had a daughter I would 
cut her ears off. In fact, if there were no 
women, everything would be as cheap as 
dirt ; but now we have to buy dear and sell 
cheap." 

Meanwhile the women, being a little 
affected by the wine which they had drunk, 
giggled together, and in their hilarity began 
kissing each other, while one boasted of her 
carefulness as a housekeeper, and the other 
complained of the luxury and neglect of her 
husband. While they had their heads to- 
gether in this way, Habinnas slyly rose, and 
seizing Fortunata by the feet, tipped her up 
on the couch. 

" Ow, ow ! " she cried as her skirt slipped 




I 



x 



Toilet of a Roman Lady. 



Trimalchio's Dinner 159 

over her knees ; and presently, having ar- 
ranged her dress, she hid her face, which 
flamed with blushes, on Scintilla's breast and 
covered it with a handkerchief. 

A little later, after Trimalchio had ordered 
the second part of the dinner to be brought 
in, his slaves took away all the tables and 
brought in new ones, sprinkling the floor 
with red and yellow sawdust, and also with 
mica ground to powder, a thing which I had 
never before seen done. Straightway Tri- 
malchio observed: 

" I could be perfectly satisfied myself 
with this course alone, for you now have 
really a second dinner. Still, if there 's any- 
thing else especially choice, bring it on." 

Meanwhile an Alexandrian slave who was 
serving the hot drinks, began to imitate the 
song of the nightingale, Trimalchio calling 
out from time to time : 

" Change your tune ! " and then, lo and 
behold, came another diversion ; for the 
slave who sat at Habinnas' feet, having got 



i6o Trimalchio's Dinner 

the hint, I imagine, from his master, sung 
out all of a sudden in a droning voice these 
lines from the Mneid: 

" Meanwhile ^neas, with majestic sweep. 
Skimmed with his fleet the waters of the deep." 

A more excruciating sound never struck 
my ears ; for, apart from the crescendo and 
diminuendo of his barbarous rendering, he 
interpolated other lines, so that for the first 
time I found even Vergil tiresome. When 
he had finished, however, Habinnas ap- 
plauded him, remarking : 

" He never had to learn these things, but 
I educated him up to it by sending him out 
to listen to the performances in the street, 
with the result that he has n't his match 
at imitating the mule-drivers and the moun- 
tebanks. He's awfully clever, for he can 
take the part of a cobbler, or a cook, or a 
baker ; in fact, he is a perfect Jack-of-all- 
trades. To be sure, he has two, faults, apart 
from which he is really out of sight, — he 
has been circumcised and he snores, for as to 



Trimalchio's Dinner i6i 

the fact that he 's squint-eyed, I don't mind 
that, for they say that Venus herself has a 
cast in her eyes. These two faults, however, 
have this result : he is never silent and he 
keeps an eye on everything. I paid three 
hundred denarii for him." 

Scintilla interrupted him in the midst of 
his talk, observing : 

"Yes, but you don't tell all the accom- 
plishments of this wretched slave. He is a 
pimp, and I shall see that he gets branded 
for it." 

Trimalchio laughed at this. 

"I recognise in him," said he, "a real 
Cappadocian. He 's very good to himself, 
and, by Jove ! I praise him for it, for this is 
the only way for a man to do. But don't 
be jealous, Scintilla. Depend upon it, I 
understand you both. As sure as I 'm alive, 
I used in my time to be aux petits soins with 
my master's wife, so that even my master 
had a sort of inkling of it, and that 's why 
he had me transferred to the stewardship of 



1 62 Trimalchio's Dinner 

his country place. But least said, soonest 
mended." 

On this the miserable slave, precisely as 
though he had received high praise, pulled 
a clay lamp out of his pocket, and for half an 
hour or more gave us an imitation of trum- 
peters, Habinnas chiming in, flipping his 
lower lip with his finger. At last the slave 
sat up in the midst of us and gave us an 
imitation of flute-players with their instru- 
ments, and later, putting on his cloak and 
taking a whip, he took the part of mule- 
drivers, until Habinnas called him and kissed 
him and offered him a drink, saying : 

"Bully for you, Massa ! I'm going to 
give you a pair of brogans ! " 

These tiresome proceedings would never 
have come to an end had not a dessert been 
brought in, consisting of thrushes made of 
pastry and stuffed with nuts and raisins. 
Following these came quinces stuck full of 
thorns so as to represent hedgehogs. One 
could have stood these things, had not the 



Trimalchio's Dinner 163 

disgusting abundance of the course made us 
prefer to die of hunger ; for after there had 
been set before us, as we supposed, a fat 
goose surrounded by fish and every kind of 
birds, Trimalchio remarked : 

" My friends, whatever you see set before 
you here has been made out of one single 
kind of material." 

Thereupon, I, being a man of great insight 
immediately understood what it was, as I 
thought, and looking at Agamemnon I 
said : 

" I should n't be surprised if all these 
things were made out of filth, or at any rate, 
out of mud, for I have seen at Rome at the 
time of the Saturnalia the very same thing in 
the way of a dinner." 

But before I had finished speaking, 
Trimalchio observed : 

" As I hope to grow in wealth and lose 
in flesh, this cook of mine made all these 
things out of pork. There cannot be a more 
valuable fellow to have around than he. 



164 Trimalchio's Dinner 

Should he take a fancy to do so, he could 
make you fish out of a sow's paunch, and 
pigeon out of bacon, a turtle-dove out of ham, 
and a chicken out of a knuckle of beef And 
that 's why, by a happy thought of mine, I 
have given him a first rate name, for he is 
called Daedalus ; and because he has his wits 
about him I brought him from Rome a pres- 
ent of some knives made of Noric steel." 

These he at once ordered to be brought out, 
and after we had looked at them he expressed 
his admiration. He even made us test the 
edges of the knives on our cheeks. 

All of a sudden there came in two slaves, 
who had been quarrelling apparently at 
the town-pump ; for they still carried their 
water-jars on their necks. While Trimal- 
chio was hearing the case between these two 
brawlers, neither one of them accepted his 
decision, but each broke the other's water- 
jar with a club. In our surprise at the rude- 
ness of the drunken pair, we fixed our eyes 
on them as they quarrelled, and I noted that 



Trimalchio's Dinner 165 

out of the broken vessels came tumbling 
oysters and scallops which a slave collected 
in a dish and carried around. The clever 
cook matched these dainties, for he had 
served up snails on a silver gridiron, sing- 
ing all the time himself with a quavering 
and disagreeable voice. 

It is unpleasant to relate what followed, 
for boys wearing their hair long, brought in 
ointment in a silver dish and anointed the 
feet of the reclining guests after they had 
bound their legs and ankles with garlands. 
Then they poured a quantity from the same 
ointment into the wine-cooler and the lamp. 

Fortunata now expressed a desire to dance, 
while Scintilla applauded more often than 
she talked, when Trimalchio observed: 

" Philargyrus and Cario, although you 
always bet against me in the circus games, 
come and invite your concubine Menophila 
to take her place at table." 

Not to make a long story of it, we 
were almost crowded off the couches, so 



1 66 Trimalchio's Dinner 

rudely did the whole body of slaves take 
possession of the entire dining-room. At 
any rate, I noticed beside me the cook who 
had made the goose out of pork, reeking 
with pickle-brine and spices. Nor was he 
satisfied with having a place at the table, but 
he at once began to give an imitation of 
Ephesus, the tragic actor, and from time to 
time challenged his master to bet as to 
whether the jockeys who sported the green 
would carry off the first prize at the next 
circus games. 

Roaring with laughter at his familiarity, 
Trimalchio observed : 

" Really, my friends, slaves too are human 
beings, and they have drunk the same milk 
as ourselves, even though they have had 
hard luck. Nevertheless, if I live, mine 
shall soon breathe the air of freedom. In 
fact, I 'm going to set them all free in my 
will. I bequeath to Philargyrus a farm, and 
the freedom of his wife, and to Cario a dwell- 
ing-house and the amount of his emanci- 








o 

< 

U 

< 

s 

o 



Trimalchio's Dinner 167 

pation-tax, and a bed with bedclothing. 
I 'm making Fortunata my heir and I com- 
mend her to the care of all my friends. 
And I let these things be known now, 
so that my slaves may love me just as 
much at the present time as if I were 
already dead." 

At this they all began to express their 
thanks for their master's kindness ; where- 
upon he, putting aside his trifling, had a 
copy of his will brought in, and caused it to 
be read aloud from beginning to end while 
the , slaves all groaned. Then looking at 
Habinnas, he said : 

"What do you think of that, my dear 
friend ? Are you going to construct my 
monument as I have directed? I ask you 
particularly to put a little dog at the foot of 
my statue with crowns and ointments and 
the contests of Petrais, so that through your 
goodness I may be able to live even after 
death ; and take care to have the plot one 
hundred feet front and two hundred feet 



1 68 Trimalchio's Dinner 

deep. And I want to have every kind of 
fruit tree around my remains, and lots of 
vines, for it's a great mistake that houses 
should be carefully attended to for a man 
when he is alive, but that the house where 
we have to dwell a great deal longer should 
be neglected. And so, above all, I want to 
have this inscription placed upon it : 

"'This Monument does not Descend to Heirs.* 
" Moreover, I shall take care to have it 
provided in my will that when I am dead I 
shall suffer no harm ; for I shall set one of 
my freedmen over my tomb to watch it, so 
that no one may commit any nuisance there. 
I ask you also to depict on the front of my 
monument ships under full sail, and myself 
sitting on the judgment-seat with my best 
toga on, and wearing my five gold rings, and 
pouring money out of a bag for the benefit 
of the people. For you know that in my 
will I have provided a public dinner with 
a present of two denarii for each guest. 
Just represent that, please, and represent 



Trimalchio's Dinner 169 

also the public having a good time. Put, 
also, at my right hand a statue of my wife 
Fortunata holding a dove, and let her be 
leading along a little dog with a blanket 
on ; and introduce also my favourite young 
slave, and wine-jars carefully sealed up so 
as not to leak. And you might also carve 
a broken urn and a youth weeping over 
it. In the middle of it place a clock, so 
that whoever comes to see what time it is 
will have to read my name whether he wants 
to or not. Consider also, whether this in- 
scription seems to you entirely suitable : — 

" ' Here lies Gaius Pompeius Trimalchio, a second 
m^cenas. a commissionership was bestowed upon 

HIM WITHOUT HIS SOLICITATION. ThOUGH HE MIGHT 
HAVE BEEN ENROLLED ON THE BeNCH WITH THE JuDGES 

AT Rome, he did not desire this. Loyal, Brave, 
AND Faithful, he rose from Poverty to Wealth, 

he left BEHIND HIM ThIRTY MiLLION SeSTERCES, AND 
yet he NEVER STUDIED PHILOSOPHY. FaREWELL ! 
Go THOU AND DO LIKEWISE ! ' " 

As Trimalchio repeated these words, he 
began to weep copiously. Fortunata also 



lyo Trimalchio's Dinner 

wept, and Habinnas wept, and the slaves 
wept ; and as though invited to his funeral, 
they filled the whole dining-room with the 
sound of their mourning. Nay, even I 
had begun to weep when Trimalchio briskly 
said: 

" Well, since we know that we all have to 
die in the future, why should n't we live in 
the present ? Bless your hearts ! let 's all 
take a plunge in the bath-tub at my expense. 
It won't do any harm. It 's as hot as a 
furnace." 

" Yes, yes," said Habinnas ; " I like 
nothing better than to make two days out 
of one." 

And with bare feet he got up and began 
to follow Trimalchio, who applauded his 
sentiments. 

"What do you think of this?" said I, 
looking at Ascyltos. " For my part if I 
shall even see a bath, I shall die on the 
spot." 

" Oh, let 's follow them," said he, " and 



Trimalchio's Dinner 171 

while they 're on the way to the bath-room, 
we '11 make our escape in the crowd." 

As this seemed a good scheme, we 
approached the door, following Giton through 
the portico where a dog chained up received 
us with such a barking that Ascyltos fell into 
the cistern. I, too, being rather affected by 
drink, and being the same man also who had 
feared even the painted dog before dinner, 
while I was now attempting to assist my sub- 
merged friend, was dragged into the same 
pool. We were both rescued, however, by 
the janitor, who, on his arrival, quieted the 
dog and dragged us shivering to the dry 
floor. Giton had already preserved himself 
from the dog by a very shrewd device ; for 
when the animal barked, the boy had thrown 
to him everything that had been given him 
by us from the table, and the dog, attracted 
by the food, had stopped his barking. But 
when, suffering from the cold, we had begged 
the janitor to let us out through the doorway 
he said : 



172 Trimalchio's Dinner 

"You are mistaken if you imagine that 
you can leave by the same way that you came. 
No guest has ever been let out through 
the same door ; for they enter by one and 
depart by another." 

What on earth were we poor fellows to 
do, shut up in a new sort of labyrinth, and 
already beginning to experience a desire for 
a hot bath ? So we next gladly asked the 
man to conduct us to the bath-room ; and 
there, throwing aside our clothing, which 
Giton set himself to dry at the entrance, we 
entered the bath. It was very narrow, like 
a cistern, and in it Trimalchio was standing 
upright. Not even in this situation could 
he stop his absurd boasting, for he kept 
saying that there was nothing better than to 
bathe apart from the mob, and that once 
upon a time in this very place there had been 
a bakery. Presently, growing weary, he sat 
down ; and attracted by the echo of the 
bath-room, he opened his drunken mouth 
toward the ceiling and began to murder the 





7 J '^'^^.— -1* 






Cistern in Roman House. 



Trimalchio's Dinner 173 

songs of Menecrates, as those present who 
understood what he was saying informed us. 
The other guests joined hands around the 
bath and made a great uproar by their gig- 
gling. Still others, with hands clasped be- 
hind them, tried to pick up rings from the 
floor, or else, kneeling, attempted to bend 
backward and touch the tips of their toes. 
While the others were disporting themselves 
in this way, we went down to the warm bath 
which was being heated for Trimalchio. 

Having dispelled the fumes of wine, we 
were next led into a second dining-room 
where Fortunata had so arranged her table 
ornaments that I observed lights and bronze 
statues of fishermen, and tables of solid 
silver, and gilded earthenware cups set 
around and wine before us flowing from a 
wine-bag. 

Trimalchio at once remarked : 

" My friends, a slave of mine has to-day 
celebrated the first shaving of his beard. 
He 's a thrifty fellow and one who never 



174 Trimalchio's Dinner 

wastes a crumb. So let 's moisten our clay 
and not go home till morning ! " 

As he said this a cock crew. Somewhat 
perturbed by the sound, which he thought a 
bad omen, Trimalchio ordered wine to be 
poured out under the table and to be sprin- 
kled also on the lamp. Nay, he even shifted 
a ring to his right hand and remarked : 

"It is n't for nothing that chanticleer 
has sounded his signal ; for either a fire is 
bound to break out, or some one in the 
neighbourhood is going to die. I hope it 
is n't any of us. And so whoever brings me 
that bird shall get a present. " 

Immediately the cock was brought in 
from the neighbourhood, and Trimalchio 
ordered it to be killed and cooked. There- 
fore, as soon as it has been cut up by the 
accomplished cook who a little while before 
had made birds and fishes out of pork, it 
was thrown into the pot, and while Daedalus 
tossed off a hot drink, Fortunata ground up 
some pepper in a wooden pepper-box. 



Trimalchio's Dinner 175 

After some trifling dainties had been 
consumed, Trimalchio, looking around at 
the servants, said : 

" Well, have n't you had your dinner yet ? 
Go and get it, and let other servants come 
here and wait upon us." 

Directly, then, another set came in, those 
who went out exclaiming, " Farewell, Gaius ! " 
and those who came in saluting him with, 
" Hail, Gaius ! " Soon after, for the first 
time, our mirth was checked ; for when a 
young slave who was by no means bad look- 
ing had come in among the new servants, 
Trimalchio pounced upon him and began to 
kiss him for a long time. Whereupon 
Fortunata, in order to prove her equal right 
in the household, began to abuse Trimalchio, 
styling him the scum of the earth and a 
disgraceful person. At last she called him 
a dog. Taking offence at this vitupera- 
tion, Trimalchio threw a cup in her face, 
and she, as though she had lost an eye, 
shrieked and placed her trembling handi 



176 Trimalchio's Dinner 

before her face. Scintilla also was very 
much disturbed and hid the cowering woman 
in her robe. A slave at once in an officious 
manner placed a cold jug against her cheek, 
leaning upon which Fortunata began to 
moan and cry. 

On his side Trimalchio exclaimed, — 
" How now? The jade doesn't remem- 
ber that I took her off the stage and made 
an honest woman of her ; she puffs herself 
up like a frog and fouls her own nest, — a 
faggot and not a lady. But, as the say- 
ing goes, one who was born in a garret 
does n't fit a palace. So help me gracious, 
I '11 see that this clodhopping tragedy queen 
is brought up with a round turn. I, when I 
was only a poor devil, had a chance to marry 
a fortune of ten million sesterces, and you 
know I 'm not lying about it. Agatho, who 
sold perfume to a lady who lived next door, 
took me aside and said : ' I beg you not to 
let your race perish from the earth ; ' but 
just because I was a good fellow and did n't 



Trimalchio's Dinner 177 

•want to seem fickle, I fastened this ball-and- 
chain to my leg. Very well, now, I '11 teach 
you to claw me, and just to show you on the 
spot what you 've brought upon yourself, I 
order you, Habinnas, not to put her statue 
on my tomb, lest even after my death I 
should be having scraps with her. In fact, 
to teach her how severe I can be, I forbid 
her to kiss me when I am dead." 

After this thunderous blast, Habinnas fell 
to begging him not to be angry, saying : 

" None of us is perfect. We are men, you 
know, not gods." 

And Scintilla also, weeping, addressed him 
in the same way and exhorted him by his 
better nature to be mollified, calling him, 
" Gaius." On this Trimalchio could not 
keep back his tears and remarked : 

" I beg you, Habinnas, as you hope to be 
lucky, if I have done anything wrong, just 
spit in my face. I kissed this excellent 
young slave, not because of his good looks 
but because of his intelligence. He can say 



178 Trimalchio's Dinner 

his table of ' ten times,* he can read a book 
at sight, and he's saved up some money 
for himself out of his daily food allowance, 
and bought a little stool and two ladles 
with his own money. So doesn't he de- 
serve to have me keep my eye on him ? 
But of course Fortunata won't have it. 
Is n't that so, you bandy-legged creature ? 
You 'd better be thankful for your blessings, 
you bird of prey, and not make me show 
my teeth, you dainty darling, or else you shall 
find out what my anger is like. You know 
me ! What I 've once decided on is as sure 
as fate. But come, let 's think of something 
more cheerful. I hope you 're all comfor- 
table, my friends. I used to be myself the 
same sort of person that you all are, but, by 
my own merits, I became what I am. It 's 
brain that makes men, and everything else 
is all rot. One man '11 tell you one rule of 
life, and another '11 tell you another. But 
/ say, • Buy cheap and sell dear,' and so you 
see I 'm just bursting with wealth. (Well, 



Trimalchio's Dinner 179 

grunter, are you still crying? Pretty soon 
I '11 give you something to cry for !) Well, 
as I was going on to say, my clever manage- 
ment brought me to my present good fortune. 
When I came from Asia, I was about the 
height of this candle-stick here, and, in fact, 
I used to measure myself against it every day. 
And so as to get a beard on my mug, I used 
to smear my lips with lamp-oil. I was a 
great favourite with my master for fourteen 
years, and I was on pretty good terms with 
my master's wife. You understand what I 
mean. I 'm not saying anything about it, 
because I 'm not one of the boastful kind ; 
but, as the gods would have it, I was really 
master in the house myself and I took his 
fancy greatly. Well, there's no need of a 
long story. He made me his residuary 
legatee, and I came into a fortune fit for a 
senator. But nobody never gets enough. 
I became crazy to go into business ; and, not 
to bore you, I had five ships built, loaded 
them with wine (and wine at that time was 



i8o Trimalchio's Dinner 

worth its weight in gold), and sent them to 
Rome. You'd imagine that it had been 
actually planned that way, for every blessed 
ship was wrecked, and that's fact and not 
fable. On one single day the sea swallowed 
down thirty million sesterces. Do you think 
I gave up ? Not much ! This loss just 
whetted my appetite as though it had bgsn 
a mere nothing. I had other ships built, 
bigger and better, and they were luckier too, 
so that everybody said I was a plucky fellow. 
You know the proverb, that it takes great 
courage to build a great ship. I loaded 
them with wine once more, with bacon, 
beans, ointment, and slaves, and at that crisis 
Fortunata did a very nice thing, for she sold 
all her jewelry and even all her clothes, and 
put a hundred gold pieces in my hand. And 
this was really the germ of my good fortune. 
What the gods wish happens quickly. In a 
single round trip I piled up ten million 
sesterces, and immediately bought in all 
the lands that had belonged to my former 



Trimalchio's Dinner i8i 

owner. I built me a house and bought all 
the cattle that were offered for sale, and 
whatever I touched grew as rich as a honey- 
comb. After I began to have more money 
than my whole native land contains, then, 
says I, enough. I retired from business and 
began to lend money to freedmen. A 
fortune-teller, a young Greek named Serapa, 
a man who was on very good terms with the 
gods, gave me some points when I was mak- 
ing up my mind to go out of business. He 
told me of things that even I had forgotten. 
He set them forth down to the finest pos- 
sible point. He knew my very insides, 
and the only thing he did n't tell me was 
what I had had for dinner the day before. 
You would imagine that he had lived in the 
same house with me. I say, Habinnas, you 
were there, I think. Didn't he say this? 
* Tou have married a wife from such-and-such 
a position. You are unlucky in your friends. 
No one is ever as grateful to you as he ought to 
be. You have great estates. You are cherishing 



i82 Trimalchio's Dinner 

a viper in your bosom.' And he also told me 
something that I have n't mentioned, — that 
there remains to me now of life just thirty 
years, four months, and two days. More- 
over, I 'm going to come into a legacy pretty 
soon. That's what my horoscope tells me. 
But if I shall be so lucky as to unite my 
Apulian estates, I shall not have lived in 
vain. In the mean time, while my luck 
held, I built this house which, as you know, 
was once a mere shanty, but is now a palace. 
It has four regular dining-rooms, twenty 
bed-rooms, two marble porticoes, an upstairs 
dining-room, a bed-room in which I sleep 
myself, a, sitting-room for this viper here, 
and an excellent janitor's office. It holds as 
many strangers as a hotel. Indeed, when 
Scaurus came here, he would n't put up any- 
where else, even though he has his father's 
house to go to, on the seashore. There are 
a good many other things that I 'm going to 
show you presently ; but, believe me, a man 
is worth just as much as he has in his 



Trimalchio's Dinner 183 

pocket ; and according to what you hold in 
your hand so will you be held in esteem by 
others. This is what your friend has to say 
to you, a man who once, as they say, was a 
cat, but now is a king. Meanwhile, Stichus, 
bring out my grave-clothes in which I want 
to be buried, and bring out also some oint- 
ment, and a snack from that wine-jar there 
from which I wish to have my bones 
washed." 

Stichus immediately complied and brought 
a white coverlet and a purple tunic into the 
dining-room ; whereupon Trimalchio asked 
us to feel whether they were all wool or not, 
and then, smiling, he said, — 

" See to it, Stichus, that neither the mice 
nor the moths get hold of these ; for if they 
do I '11 have you burnt alive. I want to be 
buried in a glorious fashion, so that all the 
people will bless me." 

Then he opened a jar of ointment and 
anointed us all, saying as he did it, — 

" I hope that everything will please me as 



184 Trimalchio's Dinner 

much when I 'm dead as it does while I 'm 
alive." 

Then he ordered wine to be poured into a 
wine-cooler and observed, — 

" Consider that you have received an 
invitation to my funeral." 

The thing had gone to a disgusting ex- 
treme, when Trimalchio, sodden with drink, 
hit upon a new sort of exhibition, and 
had hornblowers brought into the dining- 
room. Then, having been propped up on a 
number of pillows, he sprawled himself out 
upon the lowest couch and said, — 

" Imagine that I am dead. Say some- 
thing nice about me." 

The hornblowers blew a funeral march ; 
and one of them, the slave of the under- 
taker, who was really the most respectable 
man in the crowd, blew such a tremendous 
blast that he roused up the whole neigh- 
bourhood. The police who were on duty 
in the vicinity, thinking that Trimalchio's 
house was on fire, suddenly broke down the 



Trimalchio's Dinner 185 

door, and rushed in with axes and water, as 
was their right. Seizing this very favourable 
opportunity, we gave Agamemnon the slip, 
and made our escape as hastily as though 
we were really fleeing from a conflagration. 

There was no light in front of the house 
to show us the way as we wandered about, 
nor did the intense stillness of the night 
give us any hope of meeting wayfarers with 
torches. The effects of the wine, moreover, 
and our ignorance of the locality would have 
confused us even had it been in the day- 
time; and so, after we had dragged our 
bleeding feet for almost an hour over the 
sharp stones and bits of broken pottery that 
lay in the street, we were at last saved by 
the ingenuity of Giton ; for he, fearing to 
lose his way even in daylight, had cleverly 
marked all the pillars and columns of the 
houses with chalk, and these marks were 
visible even in the thick darkness, and 
by their whiteness showed us the way 
as we wandered about. Nevertheless, we 



1 86 Trimalchio's Dinner 

had considerable trouble even after we 
reached our inn ; for the old woman who 
kept it, having passed a good deal of time in 
drinking with her various guests, would not 
have known it even though the place had 
been on fire. We might very well, there- 
fore, have spent the entire night on the 
doorsteps had not Trimalchio's courier with 
ten wagons come upon us, and after clamour- 
ing for a little while, at last smashed the door 
of the inn and thus enabled us to enter. 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL APPENDIX 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL APPENDIX 

SELECTED LISTS OF BOOKS 

I. On Primitive Forms of Fiction Tyler, Primi- 
tive Culture (London, 1871); Fergusson, Tree 
and Serpent Worship (London, 1868) ; Dorman, 
Origin of Primitive Superstitions (Philadelphia, 
1 881); Lee, Ghostly Visitants (London, 1882); 
Sterne, Naturgeschichte der Gespenster (Weimzr, 
1863) ' Sayce, Introduction to the Science of Lan- 
guage^ch. ix. (London, 1 880) ; Lang, Custom and 
Myth, pp. 103-120, 212-242 (London, 1885); 
Frazer, Totemism (London, 1887); Mannhardt, 
fVald- und Feldkulte (Berlin, 1875); Gubernatis, 
Zoological Mythology (London, 1874); Clouston, 
Popular Tales and Fictions, vol. i., p. 275 foil. 
(London, 1887); Khys-DzxiAs, Buddhist Birth- 
Stories (London, 1 880) ; Benfey, Introduction to 
the Panchatantra (1859); Rutherford, Intro- 
duction to his edition of Babrius (London, 
1883) ; Keller in the Jahrbiicher fUr Klassische 



I go Bibliographical Appendix 

Philokgie (1861-67); Sir Richard Burton's 
" terminal essay " (section iii.) in vol. x. of his 
Thousand Nights and a Night (1886); Keith- 
Falconer, Fables of Bidpai (London, 1885); 
Jacobs, " A Short History of the ^Esopic Fable " 
in The Fables of jEsop (New York, 1894), this 
volume also containing (pp. 196 foil.) some 
valuable notes on the origin of the different 
;Esopic fables; id. The Fables of Msop with 
an introduction, 2 vols. (London, 1889); and 
Bedier, Les Fabliaux (Paris, 1893). 

II. On Greek and Roman Fiction. — A. Lang, 
Homer and the Epic (London, 1893) ; Dunlop, 
History of Fiction (last ed. London, 1 890) ; 
Nicolai, Ueber Entstehung und Wesen des 
griechischen Romans (Berlin, 1867); Rohde, 
Der grieahische Roman und seine Vorlaufer 
(Leipzig, 1876) ; Paldamus, Romische Erotik 
(Greifswald, 1833); Chauvin, Les Romanciers 
Grecs et Latins (Paris, 1862) ; Chassang, Histoire 
du Roman dans FAntiquit'e Grecque et Latine 
(Paris, 1862); Warren, A History of the Novel 
prior to the Seventeenth Century (New York, 
1895) ; and Salverte, Le Roman dans la Grece 
Ancienne (Paris, 1893). 



Bibliographical Appendix igi 

in. On Roman Life in the Fetronian Age. — 
Friedlander, Sittengeschichte Roms (Leipzig, 
1888-90); Marquardt-Mau, Privatleben der 
Romer (Leipzig, 1886); Menard, La Fie Privet 
des Anciens (Paris, 1880); Thomas, La Societi 
Romaine d'apres P'etrone (Paris, 1892); Inge, 
Roman Society under the desars (New York, 
1888) ; Preston and Dodge, The Private Life of 
the Romans (Boston and New York, 1894); 
Lanciani, Ancient Rome in the Light of Recent 
Discoveries (Boston and New York, 1888); id. 
Ruins and Excavations of Ancient Rome (1897); 
Becker-Goll, Gallus (Leipzig, 1880-82); 
Overbeck-Mau, Pompeii (Leipzig, 1884). 
Works of fiction that help the reader to an 
understanding of this period are : Sienkiewicz, 
^0 Vadis (Boston, 1896); and Farrar, Dark- 
ness and Dawn (London, 1892). See also Bar- 
ing-Gould's Tragedy of the Caesars (London, 
1892). 

IV. Texts, Translations, etc. — The Greek ro- 
mances are printed in the Courier-Larcher 
collection, 12 vols. (Paris, 1824), and are 
edited with a Latin version by Westermann 
and Hercher in the Didot collection (Paris, 



ig2 Bibliographical Appendix 

1856). English translations of the principal 
ones are printed in the Bohn Library (London, 
1856). Of Petronius, the standard Latin 
text is that of Biicheler (editio maior, Berlin, 
1862; editio minor, Berlin, 1895). There is a 
recent edition of the Cena Trimalchionis with a 
German translation and commentary by Fried- 
lander (Leipzig, 1 891); and a text with 
English notes by W. E. Waters has been 
announced but has not yet appeared. There 
is an English translation of the whole of 
Petronius by Kelly (London, 1856). A French 
version was made by De Guerle (Paris, 1886) ; 
and by Nisard (Paris, 1882); an Italian ren- 
dering by Cesareo ; and German ones by 
Heinse (Schwabach, 1783) and Schliiter (last 
ed. Stuttgart, 1873). German versions of the 
Cena Trimalchionis alone are by Wellauer in 
Jahn's Archivy vol. x. 194; and Merkens 
(Jena, 1876). 
For an account of the MSS. of Petronius, see 
Beck, The Age of Petronius (Cambridge, 
Mass., 1856) ; id. The MSS. of Petronius (Cam- 
bridge, Mass., 1863); and the introduction to 
Bucheler's larger edition. On the plebeian 
Latinity in general, see Cooper, The Roman 



Bibliographical Appendix 193 

Sermo Plebeius (Boston and New York, 1895); 
and, with especial reference to Petronius, 
Cesareo, De Petronii Sermone (Rome, 1887). 
There is a lexicon to Petronius {Lexicon 
Petronianum by Segebade and Lommatzsch 
(Leipzig, 1898). As to the locality where 
Trimalchio's dinner may be supposed to have 
taken place, see H. W. Hayley in Harvard 
Classical Studies^ vol. ii. (Boston, 1896). For 
some general remarks on Petronius see Petre- 
qmn, Rkherches sur Pkrone (Paris, 1869); Col- 
lignon, Atude sur Petrone (Paris, 1892); id. 
Petrone au Moyen Age (Paris, 1893); ^^• 
Petrone en France (Paris, 1905); and a paper 
by M. Gaston Boissier in the Revue des Deux 
Mondes for November, 1874. 

Addendum 

The annotated edition of the Cena Trimalchionis 
mentioned on the preceding page as in course of 
preparation by Professor W. E. Waters has now 
been published (Boston, 1902). Two translations 
of the Cena have lately appeared in England, — one 
by Lowe (Cambridge, 1905) and the other by Ryan 
(London, 1905). See Professor R. Y. Tyrrell in 
The Academy for January 13, 1906. 



INDEX TO THE INTRODUCTION 



INDEX TO THE INTRODUCTION 



Achilles Tatius, 17. 
^sop, 5. 

^thiopicaof}r[e]AodoTns, 35. 
Alciphron, 38. 
Antonius Diogenes, 3 ^. 
Apollonius Tyrius, 37. 
Apuleius, 8, 24, 41, 42. 
" Arbiter," the name, 46, 48. 
Aristsenetus, 38. 
Aristides of Miletus, 20. 

Babrius, 5. 
Babylonica, 35. 
Babylonian Tales, 30. 
Balzac, H. de, 30. 
Beast Fables, 5. 
Bidpai, 5. 

Bithynian Tales, 30. 
Bodach Glas, the, 13. 

Carmen de Bella Civili, 5 1 . 

Cena Trimalchionis, synopsis of the, 62-69. 

Cent Nouvelles Nouvelles of Louis XI., 30. 

Ch areas and Callirrho'e, 37. 

Cippi, Nicolaus, 53. 



1 98 Index to the Introduction 

Codex Bernensis, 52. 

Codex Traguriensis, 52, 53, 54, 55. 

Confessio Amantis, source of the, 37. 

Contes DrSlatiques of Balzac, 30. 

Cupid and Psyche, 8, 42. 

Cyprian Tales, 30. 

Cyrij^<*</w of Xenophon, 34. 

Daphnis and Chlo'e, 39, 40. 

Dark Ages, the, 42, 43. 

Bolph Heyliger, 14. 

Don Juan, source of the story of, 37. 

Du Pin, 55. 

Egyptian Tales, 30. 

Empusa, 1 2. 

Ephesiaca, 35. 

Ephesian Matron, story of the, 24, 25, 26, 27. 

Ephesian Tales, 30. 

Epic as representing the true Greek fiction, 15. 

£rflf/V« of Parthenius, 21, 22. 

Eugenius Vulgarius, 5 1 . 

Fable, development of the, 4, 5. 

" Fairy," origin of the name, 9. 

Fairy Stories, 8, 9. 

Fictitious letters, 38, 39. 

Folk-lore of Greece and Rome, 6. 

Frambotto, 53. 

Fraudulent aaditions to Petronius, 55, 56, 57, 58. 

Gentle Shepherd of Ramsay, 40. 
Gesta Romanorum, 43, 44. 



Index to the Introduction 199 

Ghost Stories in antiquity, 12, 13, 14. 
Golden Ass of Apuleius, 24, 41, 42. 
Gower, John, 37. 
Greek Fiction, i, 2, 3. 

Hardy, Thomas, cited, 24. 

Hebert, 25. 

HeliodoruS, 17. 

Herodotus, 16. 

Hetaeraj in Greece, 3. 

Huet, P. D., 56. 

Hysmine and Hysminias, 37. 

Incubo, legend of the, 10, ii. 
Irving, Washington, 14. 

John Dietrich, story oi', il. 
John of Salisbury, 25, 51. 

KoBOLD, legend of the, 10. 

Lamia, legend of, 11, 12. 
Lares, 9. 
Larva, 9, 10. 
Lemures, 10, 
Leprechaun, 10. 
Leucippe and Clitopbon, 37. 
Longus, 39, 40. 
Lydian Tales, 30. 

Manuscripts of Petronius, 52-59. 
Marchena, forgery by, 58. 



200 Index to the Introduction 

Marinus Statilius (Pierre Petit), 53. 

Marvels beyond Thule, 34. 

MedijEval fiction, 42, 43, 44, 

Mendes, Catulle, zz. 

Metamorphoses, of Lucius of Patrae, 41 ; of Apuleius, 

41, 42. 
Milesian Tales, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24. 
Mormolyce, 12. 
Mulock, Miss, II. 

Nature myths, origin of, 6, 7, 8. 

Naxian Tales, 30. 

Nero, 46, 47, 49. 

Neronian hypothesis in the Hatira of Petronius, 49. 

Nicetas Eugenianus, 37. 

Nodot, Fran9ois, forgery by, 55, 56, 57. 

Odysseus and Polymela, 22, 23. 
Oriental origin of Greek fiction, 16, 17, 18, 19. 
Orientalism in ancient fiction, 42. 
Orientalism in Greek character, 2. 

Pallenian Tales, 30. 

Parthenius, zo, 21, Z2, 23, 24. 

Paul et Virginie, 40. 

Pericles, Prince of Tyre, source of the play, 37. 

Persian influence in Greek fiction, 1 6. 

Persian Wars, their influence on Greece, 33. 

Petronius Arbiter, 41 , 45, 46, 47, 48 j nationality of, 

59, 60, 61. 
Phaedrus, 5. 
Plautus, 13. 



Index to the Introduction 201 

Pliny the Younger, 14. 
Polymela of Parthenius, 22, 23. 
Prevost, Marcel, 38. 
Primitive superstitions, 7. 
Prose fiction, late origin of, 3. 
Prose fiction in Greece, I, 2, 3. 
Prose fiction in Rome, 40, 41. 

Ramsay, Allan, 40. 

Roman fiction, 40, 41. 

Romantic love among the Greeks, 2. 

Romeo and Juliet, source of the story, 35. 

St. Pierre, Bernardin de, 40. 

Satira of Petronius, the, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50 j 
episodic character of, 50 ; history of the MSS., 50, 
51, 52, 53, 54; fraudulent addition to, 55, 56, 

57. 58. 
Scxvinus, 46. 
Scott, Sir Walter, 13. 
Severus, 17. 
Short Story, the, 16. 
Silia, 47. 
Sisenna, 41. 

Subjective novel, the, 39. 
Superstitions, 14. 
Sybaritic Tales, 30. 

Tacitus, 45, 46, 48. 
Taylor, Jeremy, 25. 
Theodorus Prodromus, 37. 
Theophilus of Simocatta, 38. 
Tigellinus, 47. 



20 2 Index to the Introduction 

Tragurian Fragment, the, 52, 53, 54, 55. 
Trojan Tales, 30. 

Utopia of Sir Thomas More, 34. 

Vampires, legend of the, 1 2. 
Vergil, a pupil of Parthenius, 20. 
Verne, Jules, 35. 
Vicentius of Beauvais, 51. 
Voltaire's Zadig, 25. 

Waver ley, cited, 13. 

Xenophon of Antioch, 17; ofEphesus, 17; of Cyprus, 
17 ; of Athens, 34. 

Zola, £mile, 40. 



ill 



ii 



^lir'^' 



ll!l!!l!n!!i| 






! ililii 



""■liiiiiiiil 



IIHIIIilll 'lllll'l 



iiili 



