# 
© 
# 
# 



Epicurean; »■ 
Connoiggeur 
/Iftanual 



\ffi^ 



W 



CONTAINING MANY 

ORIGINAL AND VALUABLE RECIPES 

FOR HOUSEKEEPERS* 



BY 

MISS LILIE C. THOMPSON, 

WACO, TEXAS, 

I89r. 




GlassJTX 'VLSI 
Rnnk T^^- 



THE 



"EPICUREAN" 



OR 



CONNOISSEUR MANUAL 



Embracingf a Choice Selection of Ori§final Receipts for the Delight 

of Housekeepers, with Numerous Valuable Su§f§festions 

as to Menus, Entertainments, Etc« 



BY 

MISS LILIE C. THOMPSON, 

WACO, TEXAS, 
1898. 



^t 



preface or Introbuctorij^ 



My apology for this addition to the list is a sincere desire to 
present a cook book which shall contain a moderate number of 
recipes, all of which are practical working receipts. In brief, 
the aim has been to make the book eminently practical for the 
average housekeeper. 

Some of the receipts contained herein have been gathered 
from practical housekeepers. Many of them are of my own origin, 
but have never before been in print. Having faithfully done 
the work, I commit the Manual to the masses of housekeepers 
who are engaged in the work of modern cooking. 

Respectfully, 

Miss Ltlie Thompson, 

Copyright 1898. 



THE EPICUREAN. 



Dinner-Giving; and the Etiquette of 
Dinners 



"To feed were best at home; 

Prom thence, the sauce to meat is ceremony, 

Meeting- were bare without it." 

— Shakespeare. 

A dinner party may be considered as holding the highest rank 
among entertainments. In no other social function is etiquette 
so strictly observed. There are prescribed rules for the form 
of the invitation, the manner of assigning each guest his place 
at the table, the manner of serving the dinner, etc., and when 
these rules are followed there need be no embarrassments. 

It should always be remembered that the social part of the 
entertainment is on a higher plane than the gastronomic one, 
though the latter must by no means be slighted. "A fig for your 
bill of fare, give me a bill of your company," is generally felt, 
and the hostess should bring together only such people as she 
believes will be mutually agreeable. 

The hostess should give her instructions for, and the details 
of, the entertainment so explicitly that the hostess, on the ar- 
rival of her guests, will have no other care than their pleas- 
ure. If she is nervous, has wandering eyes, or shows con- 
straint, it affects sensibly the ease of her guests. The spirit of 
pleasure is infectious, and upon the demeanor of the host the 
success of the evening largely depends. Much tact may be 
shown in placing the right people together at the table. If one 
is a great talker, let the other be a good listener; if one is dog- 
matic, let the other be without positive views, and so on, for as 
everyone is happiest when appearing well, it is wise to consider 
the idiosyncrasies of the guests. 

'Tis a great point in a gallery how you hang your pictures, 
and not less in society how you seat your party. A round or 
square table five feet across is a convenient size for ordinary 
use, giving ample room for six people and leaving space for 
decoration. Large round tops are made to fit over extension 
tables which will seat from twelve to twenty or more people, 
and when the size of the room will permit, this is thepleasantest 
form of table for entertainments and best lends itself to deco- 
rative effects, giving to each person a complete picture of the 
table and of the company assembled. 

The linen should be as fine as the purse will allow. Handsome 



THE EPICUREAN. 



linen will give elegance to a table where ornamentation is very 
simple. It should be ironed without starch, or with a very lit- 
tle, if it is not sufficiently heavy to take polish without it. It 
should be folded perfectly square, so that the lines will be 
straight, and should be of spotless and dazzling whiteness. You 
may use embroidered linen drawn-work, lace, plain silk or 
satin. But wash materials are preferable, and effects of color, 
when desired, can be obtained in the embroidery or linings. 
The fashion of a center-piece of linen is, however, a passing one, 
as they are not at present so generally used. 

First lay your cloth on smooth and whatever decoration you 
prefer. The plates are next put in position, attention being 
given to the decoration — the china, if it be a monogram, that it 
is right side up; if flowers, that they are in natural position, etc. 
Where there are an uneven number of covers it is better to 
place the plates at equal distances around the table without re- 
gard to the place of the hostess being opposite that of the host. 
In other cases, the places at the head and foot of the table, and 
those on the side, should be directly opposite each other. Under 
no circumstances must the plates be omitted. On the left of 
the plates place the forks, three or four may be put on and laid 
in the order in which they will be used. Three knives (one of 
them being a silver knife for the tish course) and the oyster 
fork are placed on the right of the plate. The soup spoon may 
go in front of the plate or with the knives on the right. The 
bowls of the forks and spoons should be right side up, the edges 
of the knives turned toward the jDlate. Salt and pepper boxes 
are placed at the corners of the table, or within easy reach of 
every two people; if more, then four are used. After the deco- 
ration of the table is completed as far as possible, the glasses 
are put on; there is danger of their being broken if put on be- 
fore. They are placed in uniform groups at the right of the 
plates, the water glass nearest the plate and the wine glass to 
be first used nearest the edge of the table. Port and Madeira 
glasses are not put on until the time of serving those wines, 
which is at the end of the dinner. The napkin, folded in tri- 
angular shape, the embroidered monogram on top, is laid on 
the plate, and a piece of bread cut two inches long and one and 
one-half inches thick, or more generally, a dinner roll, is laid in 
the fold, but left in full sight so that it will not be shaken onto 
the floor when the napkin is lifted. 

Everything that will be needed in serving the dinner should 
be convenient to. hand. The plates to be warmed should be in 
the hot closet; those for the cold courses, the finger-bowl, extra 
small silver and cutlery, extra rolls and cracked ice should be 



THE EPICUREAN. 



on the sideboard, so that there will be no delay in getting them 
when needed. 

Foot-stools placed under the table add much to their comfort. 



MENU FOR DINNER: 



SOUP. 

Cream of celery (colored green.) 

FISH. 

Brook Trout, Butter Sauce. 

ENTREE. 

Mushrooms on Crusts. 

ROAST. 

Saddle of Venison, Wild Plum Sauce. 
Saratoga Potatoes. 

Green Peas, served in Pastry shells. 

Salpicon of Fruits au Rhum. 

GAME AND SALAD, 

Quails in Nests of Puree of Chestnuts. 

English Walnuts and Celery Mixed with Green Mayonnaise in 

Cups of Molded Tomato Jelly. 

CHEESE, 

Small Balls of Cream Cheese, colored green to imitate Bird's 
Eggs, in nests of Shredded Lettuce. 

HOT ENTREMET. 

Individual Nut Puddings (burning.) 

DESSERT. 

Pistache Ice Cream Pralinee, molded in a ring, the center filled 

with Whipped Cream. 

White Cake with Green Icing, Fruits. Coffee. 



THE EPICUREAN. 



MENUS FOR LUNCHEON. 



No. 1. 

Grape fruit. 

Bouillon. 

Oyster Patties. 

Chops and Peas. 

Quail, Lettuce Salad. 

Ice Cream. 

Cake. 

Tea. 



No. 2. 

Melon. 

Clams on half shell. 

Cold Salmon, Sauce Tartare. 

Filets Mignons, Sauce Bearn- 

naise. 
Omelet Souffle. 
Cheese. 
Coffee. 



No. 3. 

Grapes, Fruit. 
Bouillon." 
Shad Roe. 

i Broil Chicken. 

] Green Peas 
Russian Salad. 

j Ice Cream and Jelly 

] Angel Food. 
Tea. 



No. 4 

Bouillon. 

Lobster, alaNewburg. 
Eggs Villerol. 
Sweetbreads and Peas. 
French Chops, Potato Straws. 
Russian Salad of Chicken. 
Aspic, Celery and Walnut. 
Plum Pudding Glace. 
Coffee. 



No. 5. 

Chicken Consomme. 
Lobster Chops. 
Mushrooms on Toast. 
Sweetbreads and Peas. 
Frozen Punch. 
Quails on Toast. 
Charlotte Russe. 



No. 6. 

Salpicon of Fruit. 

Cream of Clams. 

Salmon Culets, Cucumbers. 

Curried Eggs. 

Chicken Salad. [Dressing. 

Asparagus on Toast with Cream 

Fruit Tart, Chocolate. 



No. 7. 

Little Neck Clams. 
Bouillon. 

Broiled Chicken, Peas, 
Mushrooms. 
Lobster Salad. 

Strawberries served on natural 
leaves with powdered sugar. 



THE EPICUREAN. 



BREAKFAST MENU. 



Iced Cantaloupe, Bedded in Natural Leaves. 
Creamed Brains in Boucle Boxes, Garnished with Parsley and 

Lemon. 

Saratoga Chips. Lettuce Sandwiches, 

Broiled Chicken on Toast. Lemon and Parsley. 

French Peas in Pastry Cases. Apple Glace. Venetian Rolls. 

Coffee. 
Tomatoes with Mayonnaise, Lettuce Mat. 

Wafer With Grated Cheese. 
Peach Ice in Natural Peach Baskets, 

Garnished with Natural Leaves. 
Sweet wafers. 



Prepare the brains as usual by pouring boiling water over 
them, season with pepper and salt, put into a hot skillet with 
plenty of butter and broil slowly until well done. Serve on toast 
with a cream dressing made as follows: Put two tablespoons- 
f ul of butter into a saucepan, stir in two level spoonsful of flour 
and cook well, but do not let it brown; stir into this very slowly 
one cup of milk or cream, season with salt and pepper and stir 
until it thickens. 

MONDAY MENU. 

BREAKFAST. 

Fruit, Wheatena, Sugar and Milk, Pork Chops. 

LUNCHEON. 

Mock Terrapin, Boston Brown Bread, Cheese, Cakes, Tea. 

DINNER. 

Onion Soup, Eoast Beef, Mashed Potatoes, Succotash, Celery 
Salad, Strawberry Short Cake, Coifee. 



TUESDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Hominy Grits, Sugar and Cream, . Hash on Toast, Stewed 
Potatoes, Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Meat Balls, Fried Potatoes, Jelly Cake, Nuts, Tea. 



THE EPICUREAN. 



DINNER. 



Vegetable Soup, Porterhouse Steak, 

Roast Potatoes, Spinach, Canned Corn, 

Watercress, Pineapple Pie, Cheese, Coffee. 



WEDNESDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Oranges, Fried Hominy, Cakes, Poached Eggs on Toast, Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Meat Turnovers, Tomato Sauce, 

Gingerbread, Apple Pudding, Cocoa. 

DINNER. 

Tomato Soup, Veal Cutlets, Apple Sauce, 

Mashed Potatoes, Peas, Pried Parsnip, Lettuce Salad, 
Mayonnaise Dressing, Banana Cream, Cake, Coffee. 



THURSDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Shredded Wheat, Sugar and Cream, Bacon 

and Eggs, Fried Potatoes, Muffins, Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Creamed Eggs, Potato Salad, Baked Bananas, Crackers, Tea. 

DINNER. 

Clear Soup, Fricassee of chicken. 

Mashed Potatoes, Peas, Wafers, Cheese 

Lettuce Salad, Brown Betty Pudding, Coffee. 



FRIDAY. 



BREAKFAST. 

Bananas, Wheat Gems, Fish Cakes, Rice Muffins, Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Clam Broth, Fried Codfish, Cakes, 

Cut Custard, Sponge Cake, Chocolate. 



10 THE EPICUREAN. 



DINNER. 



Tomato Soup, Planked Shad, Mashed Potatoes, 

Creamed Oyster-Plant, Cold Slaw, Wafers, 

Cheese, Lemon Jelly, Cake^ Coffee. 



SATURDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Oatmeal, Sugar and Cream, Bread Omelet, Toast, Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Lamb Chops, Lyonnaise Potatoes, Pickles, 

Brown Bread and Butter, Apple Dumplings. 

DINNER. 

Bouillon, Roast Lamb, Caper Sauce, Mashed 

Potatoes, Green Peas, Baked Maccaroni, Crackers, 
Cheese, Home Made Apple Pie, Coffee. 



MENU FOR DINNER. 

Consomme or Gumbo, 

Pish a la Creme, Potato Balls, 

Roman Punch. 

White Fricassee of Chicken, 

Spring Lamb, Mint Sauce, 

Green Peas, 
Fresh Tomatoes, Served Whole, Mayonnaise Dressing, 

Strawberries and Cream, 
White Cake, Bisque Ice Cream, 

Mikado Cake, 
Egg Kisses, Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Bouillon, 

Sweet Breads and Mushrooms with Cream Sauce, 

Tomatoes with Mayonnaise Dressing, 

Boneless Turkey with Currant Jelly, New Potatoes 

and Peas, Salad. 
Ice Cream with Strawberries, White Sponge Cake, 

White Caramel Cake, 
Coffee Cheese Straws 



THE EPICUREAN. 11 



A MENU FOR TEN O'CLOCK BREAKFAST. 

1. 
Iced Cantaloupe, bedded in natural leaves. 

2. 

Creamed Brains in boucle boxes, garnished 

with Parsley and Lemon, 

Saratoga Chips, Lettuce Sandwiches. 



Broiled Chicken on Toast, Lemon and Parsley 

French Peas in Pastry Cases, 

Apple Glace, Venetian Rolls, Coffee, 

Tomatoes with Mayonnoise, Lettuce Mat, 

Wafer with Grated Cheese, 

Peach Ice, in Natural Peach Basket Garnished with 

Natural Leaves, Sweet Wafers. 



Strawberries with the Stem, Served on Leaves with Powdered 

Sugar on one side of the Plate, 

Broiled Chicken on Parsley, Saratoga Chips, 

Venetian Rolls, Coffee. 

Frozen Sherbet. 
Tomatoes on Lettuce Leaf with Mayonnaise Dressing 
with a Wafer. 



MENU FOR BREAKFAST. 

Strawberries served in their own Leaves. 

Coffee. Chocolate. 

Hot Rolls. Toasted Muffins. 

Lamb Chop Breaded. 

Sweetbread. Croquettes. Tomato Sauce. 

French Fried Potatoes. 

Fried Bananas with Fruit Sauce. 



12 • THE EPICUREAN. 



HOW TO MAKE COFFEE 



DRIP COFFEE. 

One heaping tablespoonful of coffee to a cupful, or half pint 
of water will make black coffee. Put the coffee powder into a 
felt bag or on a thick flannel laid on a strainer and pour the boil- 
ing water over it. The flannel must be thick and close enough 
to prevent the tine powder straining through. If enough coffee 
is used to make it of much depth in the strainer, the water will 
pass through very slowly and the coffee will be cold, there- 
fore have the pot hot before beginning, and stand it in a pan of 
hot water while it is dripping. Coffee will not be right unless 
the water is violently boiling when poured on the grounds. 
Serve the coffee at once 

BOILED COFFEE. 

Put the ground coffee into the pot, pour over it boiling water, 
let it come to the boiling point, remove and stir into it the 
slightly beaten white of an egg and the crushed shell, replace it 
on the fire and let boil one minute. This is to clear the cof- 
fee of the fine particles held in suspension; pour a tablespoonful 
of cold w^ater down the spout and place it on the side of the 
range where it will be perfectly still for five minutes, then pour 
off carefully the liquid coffee. Do not let the coffee boil three 
minutes altogether. The aroma of the coffee is the escaped 
volatile oils — all that is lost detracts just so much from the 
flavor of the drink. 

ICED CAFE AU LAIT. 

Add enough black coffee to milk to give it the desired 
strength and flavor, sweeten to taste and let stand on ice until 
ready to serve, serve it in glasses instead of cups. Any coffee 
left from breakfast, prepared in this ways makes a refreshing 
and acceptable drink for luncheon in summer. 

COCOA. 

Dissolve a teaspoonful of cocoa in half a cupful of boiling 
water, then add a half cupful of boiling milk and boil it for one 
minute, stirring vigorously all the time, sweeten to taste. 
Brioche or Bath buns are good to serve with chocolate or cocoa 
for a light lunch. 

COFFEE PUNCH. 

Mix together a quart of black coffee a cupful of cream, three 



THE EPICUREAN. 13 



quarters ^pf ul of sugar, freeze and then mix in a half cupful of 
brandy or rum and a half pint of cream, whipped, and let it 
stand half an hour. Stir it well before serving. 

CAFE FRAPPE. 

Mix a quart of black coffee with a quart of cream and a cupful 
of sugar, or, better sweeten with syrup. Freeze the same as 
ice cream and serve in glasses. A little brandy may be mixed 
in just before serving, if desired. 



Breads^ 

CORN BREAD. 

Half pint of corn meal, teaspoon of salt, tablespoon of lard, 
and then scald with boiling water. Add one egg, a little sweet 
milk, teaspoon baking powder. 

SPOON BREAD. 

One cup of cold grits, half cup corn meal, half teaspoon salt, 
one tablespoon butter or lard, mix with boiling water, one egg, 
a little sweet milk, one teaspoon baking powder. Cook about one 
hour. 

FRENCH TOAST. 

Take cold bread and beat up about three eggs and a little 
sweet milk, pinch of salt, slice the bread and dip in the egg 
and milk. Fry in hot lard a light brown. ^ 

RUSKS. 

One pint milk, one pint of rising, two full tablespoons of sugar, 
butter the size of two eggs, melted, flour to make a thin dough, 
a little salt; after rising work well. Bake in moderate oven. 

OLD FASHION CORN BREAD. 

One pint corn meal, one teaspoon salt, one tablespoon lard, 
pour boiling water to wet meal, add a little sweet milk. Make 
out into pones and bake. 

FRIED CRACKERS. 

Two eggs, half cup sweet milk, a little salt, beat all together, 
dip crackers in this mixture. Fry in hot butter; serve at once. 

VENETIAN ROLLS. 

One quart flour, two heaping teaspoons baking powder, half 



14 THE EPICUREAN. 



teaspoon salt, small tablespoon of lard, sift flour twice, mix 
with sweet milk, not too soft, knead well, roll out, cut as for bis- 
cuit, butter and fold. Bake in hot oven. 

FLOUR MUFFINS. 

Two eggs, one and a half cups buttermilk, little salt, flour to 
make stiff batter, beat until smooth, pinch of soda, two teaspoon 
baking powder. Have rings red hot; bake first at top then on 
bottom. 

HOE-CAKES. 

Mix one pint of corn meal with a half teaspoon of salt, in a 
bowl, add enough boiling water to moisten the meal and let it 
stand ten minutes; then add boiling water until the batter will 
drop from the spoon. Bake in cakes on a hot griddle greased 
with lard. When done put a piece of butter on the top of each 
cake and serve. 

CORN DODGERS. 

To one pint of corn meal put a pinch of salt and a large spoon- 
ful of lard and a desert spoonful of brown sugar, pour over this 
very slowly, stirring all the time, enough water (boiling) to 
moisten the meal, set this aside at least two hours, then grease 
a pan and add milk to make the dough soft, then add a teaspoon 
of baking powder, make out into dodgers and bake in a hot oven. 

RICE MUFFINS. 

With rice left from dinner a delicious muffin can be served 
for breakfast. Take about one pint of boiled rice, pour a little 
hot water over it and let it simmer a few minutes, adding a 
tablespoonful of butter, let it cool and add one teacup of sweet 
milk and three well beaten eggs, stir these thoroughly, then 
add one pint of flour with one teaspoonful of yeast powder. 
Bake in muffin rings in a quick oven. 

BISCUIT. 

One quart of flour, half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon yeast 
powder, one tablespoon of lard, one good cup of buttermilk. 

CRIMINIES. 

Make up dough as for biscuit and take a little piece as big as 
a marble and roll out as thin as paper and then bake a light 
brown. They are good to serve with salads instead of crackers. 

BEATEN BISCUIT. 

One quart of flour, one teaspoon of salt, half cup of lard, one 



THE EPICUREAN. 



cup of milk, make a stiff dough, beat twenty minutes and roll 
out and cut and stick with a fork before baking. 

FLOUR MUFFINS. 

Two eggs, one and a half cup of buttermilk, a little salt, and 
enough Hour to make a stiff batter, and a pinch of soda, two 
teaspoonf ul of baking powder. Have your muffin rings red hot 
and bake in the top of the stove and when brown put at the 
bottom. 

WAFFLES. 

Three eggs beaten separately, add to the yolks one pint of 
sour milk in which a teaspoonf ul of soda has been dissolved, 
a tablespoon of melted butter, one teaspoon of salt and a 
heaping pint of flour or enough to make a thick batter, lastly 
the whites of the egg. 

SALT RISING BREAD. 

Take one pint of warm water or boiling sweet milk, a table- 
spoon of meal, teaspoon of salt, five tablespoonful of flour, stew 
two or three raw potatoes and add, set to rise in moderately 
warm water, one hour before baking stir in a little flour, when it 
rises, take out the potatoes before making up the bread, add five 
pints of flour, three tablespoons of lard, one teaspoon salt, add a 
little water if necessary to make soft dough, knead well and 
make in rolls or loaves, set to rise in a warm place; when hght 
put in to bake. 

ORANGES FOR BREAKFAST. 

To serve oranges for breakfast, cut open and put crushed ice 
in, eat with a spoon. 



COTTOLENE RECIPES. 



In many of the following recipes Cottolene is used for short- 
ening and frying. 

Cottolene is made of 80 per cet triple refined Cottonseed Oil 
and 20 per cent of choice beef suet, assuring users the purest 
possible shortening and frying fat, palatable and digestible. It 
can be used for many purposes in place of butter when it is im- 
possible to use lard. 

For the benefit of the uninitiated, we give the following direc- 
tions for using this delectable product: 

In using Cottolene for shortening, all rules for lard or butter 
hold good except in quantity — one-third less of Cottolene being 



16 THE EPICUREAN. 



required. This must be strictly observed or the food will be 
too rich. 

In frying, use the same amount of Cottolene as you would of 
lard, but care must be exercised in heating. Always i^ut it on 
in a cold vessel — Cottolene heats without sputtering or smoking 
and quicker than lard, with same heat. Never allow it to smoke, 
as it is then burning. Cottolene should be tested according to 
the nature of the food to be fried: viz: for croquettes, fish-balls, 
oysters, etc., drop a small piece of bread in the hot fat. If it 
browns quickly on coming to the top, the fat is hot enough. 
Doughnuts, potatoes, fritters, etc., require slightly lower tem- 
perature as they must be cooked through while browning. Test 
the fat for these by dropping in a piece of dough. If it rises 
to the top and browns in one minute, the fat is hot enough. 

MINUTE BISCUIT. 
(Marion Harland.) 
One pint of sour or buttermilk, one teaspoonf ul soda, one and 
one-third teaspoonf uls Cottolene, flour to make soft dough. 
Have dough just stiff enough to handle; mix, roll and cut out 
rapidly, with as little handling as possible, and bake in a quick 
oven. 

BUTTER CRACKERS. 
(Marion Harland.) 
One quart of flour, two tablespoonfuls Cottolene, one-half 
teasponful soda dissolved in hot water, one saltspoonful salt, 
two cups sweet milk. Rub the Cottolene into the flour, or, what 
is better, cut it up with a knife or chopper, as you do in pastry: 
add the salt, milk and soda, mixing well . Work into a ball, 
turning and shifting the mass often. Roll into an even sheet a 
quarter of an inch thick, or less, prick deeply with a fork, and 
bake in a moderate oven. Hang them up in a muslin bag in the 
kitchen for two days to dry. 

GRAHAM WAFERS. 
(Mrs. Lincoln.) 
One-third cup Cottolene, one-third cup sugar, one-half tea- 
spoonful salt, one pint white flour, one pint graham flour. Mix 
the Cottolene with the sugar and salt. Rub the mixture into 
the white and graham flour mixed. Wet it with cold water into 
a very stiff dough. Knead it well and roll out very thin. Cut 
in squares and bake quickly. 

RICE WAFFLES. 
(Mrs. Owens.) 
One cup boiled rice, one pint milk, two eggs, one scant table- 



THE EPICUREAN. 17 



spoonful Cottolene, one-half teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonf ul 
cream tartar. Flour for thin batter, to bake in waffle irons. 

OYSTER-PLANT FRITTERS. 
(Mrs. Rorer.) 
One dozen roots, one tablesponf ul flour, one teaspoonful salt, 
one saltspoonful pepper, two eggs well beaten. Scrape the 
oyster-plant or salsify, and as fast as you do so throw the pieces 
into cold water to prevent discoloration. When all are done, 
cut them into slices and boil thirty minutes. Drain and mash 
through a colander; add to the flour, salt, pepper and eggs. Mix, 
form the mixture into oyster-shaped cakes. Fry in very hot 
Cottolene on both sides. 

RUSKS. 
(Mrs. F. L. Gillette.) 
Two cups of raised dough, one cup of sugar, one-third cup of 
Cottolene, two well beaten eggs, one-half teaspoonful of soda, 
flour. Mix all together thoroughly with the hands, adding suf- 
ficient flour to make it stiff enougla to mold. Set it to rise, when 
light make into biscuits and place on greased tins. Pierce the 
tops with a fork, then glaze them with sugar and milk. Bake 
in a moderate oven. Some add dried currants and a teaspoon- 
ful of grated nutiAeg while mixing. 

SALLY LUNN. 
(Mrs. F. L. Gillette.) 
One-third of a cup of Cottolene, one pint of milk, four eggs, 
one tablespoonful of sugar; one teaspoonful of salt; one-half cup 
of yeast, or one-third cake of compressed yeast; seven cups of 
sifted flour. Scald the milk, when cool, add the Cottolene, 
sugar, salt and yeast. Beat thoroughly, and set it to rise over 
night. In the morning dissolve the soda in a spoonful of water, 
stir it in the batter with the well- beaten eggs. Turn all into a 
well greased cake dish to rise again. Bake about forty- five 
minutes, and serve warm from the oven. 

POP-OVERS. 
(Mrs. F. L. Gillette.) 
Two cups of milk; two cups of flour; one teaspoonful of salt; 
three eggs; one small teaspoonful of melted Cottolene. Beat 
the eggs until very light, then add them to the milk and salt. 
Add this little by little to the flour to prevent its being lumpy. 
Strain it through a sieve, fill well-greased gem-pans half full. 
Bake in a quick oven about twenty-five minutes. 



18 THE EPICUREAN. 



FIRH CUTLETS. 

(Mrs. Rorer.) 

Half pint milk, three teaspoonf ul Cottolene, three even table- 
spoonful flour, one egg yolk, one tablespoonful parsley chopped, 
one-quarter spoon grated nutmeg, ten drops onion juice, two cups 
of cold boiled fish, seasoning, put the milk on to boil, rub together 
the Cottolene and flour, then stir them into the boiling milk, 
stir and cook until a thick paste is formed, add the yolk of egg, 
parsley, onion juice, mix and add the boiled fish, mix again and 
add a "balatable seasoning of salt and cayenne, turn out to cool, 
when cold, form into cutlets or croquettes, dip first in beaten 
egg then in bread crumbs and fry in very hot Cottolene, drain 
on brow paper and serve very hot with cream sauce. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

(Miss Parloa.) 

Oysters for frying should be large and plump, spread them 
on a towel to drain, and after seasoning them with pepper and 
salt, roll them in fine dry bread or cracker crumbs, dip them in 
beaten egg, and again roll in plenty of crumbs; have Cottolene 
about four inches deep in the frying kettle, and when hot, test 
as directed, cover the bottom of the frying basket with a single 
layer breaded oysters and plunge into the fat, cook for one 
minute and a half, drain and serve immediately. For a dozen 
and a half oysters there will be required two eggs, one-fourth 
of a teaspoonf ul of pepper, one level tablespoonful of salt and 
one pint of crumbs, use one half the salt and pepper to season 
the oysters and the rest to season the crumbs. If the flavor be 
liked, two tablespoonful of tomato catsup may be mixed with 
egg. Remember that there are few fried things that require 
the fat so hot as oysters or that spoil so quickly if allowed 
to stand after frying. 



^f^^fi 



THE EPICUREAN. 19 



Poultry and Game* 



CHICKEN PIE. 

Boil your chickon until tender, season highly with plenty of 
pepper, salt and butter. Make a rich pie crust and line your 
pan well, then pour in your chicken and liquor, take some of 
the dough and cut in pieces and mix in with the chicken, 
put a top crust on and bake. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Cut the chicken in pieces, lay it in salt and w^ater, which 
change several times; roll each piece in egg and thin flour, fry 
in hot lard. Make a gravy of cream seasoned with salt, pepper 
and a little chopped parsley: 

TO BROIL QUAIL. 

After dressing, split down the back, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper and lay them on a broiler the inside down; broil slowly 
at first. Serve on toast with cream gravy. 

TO ROAST WILD DUCK. 

After dressing soak them over night in salt and water to 
draw out the fishy taste, then in the morning put them into fresh 
water, changing several times before roasting. Stuff, or not, as 
desired. Serve with currant jelly. 

BROILED STEAKS- 

Take a nice Tenderloin steak about an inch thick, beat well, 
grease with lard, have your broiler red hot, then put your steak 
on, let it cook on one side, turn over, season with salt and pep- 
per very highly then turn over and season the other side and 
when done take off and put in a steak dish and put plenty of 
good butter, put in the stove for a few minutes for the butter to 
melt, and garnish the dish with parsley and lemon. 

BROILED STEAK WITH TOMATOE SAUCE. 

Have your steak broiled nicely and take one can of tomatoes 
or fresh tomatoes, one onion chopped fine; when the steak is 
done, pour this over the steak and put in the stove for a while 
and it is nice to put a little parsley and serve. 

BAKED MEAT. 

Take cold roast beef and slice, take a pudding pan put a 
layer of meat, salt and pepper and butter, then a layer of toma- 
toe and a few cracker crumbs and keep on this way until the 
pan is full and on top put cracker-crumbs and butter, a litte 
parsley chopped fine, add a little water and put in the stove to 



20 THE EPICUREAN. 



bake. It is nice way to get rid of your cold meat you have left 
from a meal. 

CHICKEN HASH. 

Take your chicken and chop up real fine, have ready on 
the stove a .saucepan with some water, take about three po- 
tatoes and peel, cut up in squares and cook for a while before 
you put your chicken, then put your chicken and season very 
highly with black pepper, salt and red pepper, take one ta- 
blespoon of butter and mix a little flour together and when the 
hash is nearly done put the flour and butter and let it cook a 
little longer, and if you like put a little chopped onion, or instead 
of the potato you can use old biscuit. 

BEEF HASH. 

You can take a soup bone and make soup of it for dinner and 
for supper make hash, chopped fine with potatoes and onions, 
season with pepper, salt and butter, with a little flour to make 
iti thick; be sure and season highly. 

When you are keeping house and don't want to waste, save all 
of your old cold meat and if you don't want to make hash you 
can make croquettes; chop the meat very fine and season with 
salt and pepper, pickle mustard, two eggs and some cold rice or 
grits, some bread crumbs or cracker crumbs and mold out, dip 
in meal and fry in hot lard a light brown. You can use any 
kind of meat in this way. 

BREADED VEAL CUTLETS. 

Take nice piece of steak, trim and beat well, season well with 
pepper and salt, have some bread crumbs ready and one egg, 
dip the veal in the egg and then in the bread crumbs, fry in 
hot lard. Make gravy with a little flour and brown in the grease 
you have when the veal is done. You can put water or milk and 
put salt and pepper, add a little parsley. 

MOCK DUCK. 

Take a good sized round steak, trim and beat well, make a 
dressing of cold bread season highly with pepper, salt, butter 
and one egg, chop one onion very fine, mix together, have your 
steak all ready and put the dressing on the steak, roll up 
and tie, put in a pan with a little water, sprinkle some flour over 
your mock duck and some salt and pepper; put in the stove to 
bake. 

BROILED CHICKEN. 

Have the broiler red hot, have your chicken well cleaned, 
season well with pepper, salt and put some lard on the chicken, 



THE EPICUREAN. 21 



put on the broiler and turn from one side" to the other until 
done, baste once in a while with butter. When done take off 
and put plenty of butter, and put in the stove to melt, and serve 
on toast with parsley. 



Shell Fish, 



OYSTER PATTIES. 



Stew the oysters, take the broth and allow the yolk of one egg 
to every dozen oysters, turn off the broth and add the eggs; let 
it come to a boil, then turn back the oysters and fill the crust. 



OYSTER DRESSING. 



One quart of milk, put in kettle on the stove, take nearly half 
a cup of butter, salt and pepper to taste, break in crackers 
enough to thicken; when hot put in one pint of oysters, stir well 
and then it is ready for use. 



ROASTED OYSTERS. 



Take oyesters in the shell, wash the shells clean and lay care- 
fully on hot coals; when they are done they will begin to open; 
remove the upper shell and serve the oysters in the lower shell 
with a little melted butter poured over each. 

OYSTERS ON THE SHELL. 

Wash the shells and put them on hot coals or upon the top of 
a hot stove, or bake them in a hot oven; open the shells with an 
oyster knife, taking care to lose none of the liquor and serve 
quickly on hot plates with toast. Oysters may be strained in 
the shells, and are excellent eaten in the same manner. 

BOILED WHITE FISH. 

Lay the fish open, put it in a dripping pan with the back 
down, nearly cover with water; to one fish put two teaspoonf uls 
salt, cover tightly and simmer (not boil) one-half hour, dress 
with gravy, butter and pepper, garnish with sliced eggs. For 
sauce, use a piece of butter the size of an egg, one tablespoon of 
flour, one-half pint boiling water; boil a few minutes and add 
three hard boiled eggs, sliced. 

BROOK TROUT. 

If small, fry them with salt pork; if large, boil and serve with 
drawn butter. 



THE EPICUREAN. 



BAKED FISH. 

Let the fish remain in cold water shghtly salted for an hour 
before time to cook it, place the gridiron on a dripping pan with 
a little hot water in it and bake in a hot oven. Just before done 
butter it well on top and brown nicely. The time of baking de- 
pends upon size of fish, A small fish will bake in about half an 
hour^a large one in an hour and a half. They are very nice 
when cooked as above and served with a sauce which is made 
from the gravy in the dripping pan, to which is added a table- 
spoonful catsup and another of some pungent sauce, and the 
juice of a lemon. Thicken with brown flour moistened with a 
little cold water; garnish handsomely with sprigs of parsley 
and currant jelly. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

Scald the oysters in their own liquor until the edges curl, 
make a white sauce, using oyster liquor instead of milk, or use 
half milk and half oyster liquor; add the oysters just before 
serving. One dozen oysters are enough for one pint of sauce. 

BAKED SHRIMP. 

Butter well a deep dish, upon which place a layer of biscuit 
crumbs, having picked and boiled your shrimps, put a layer of 
stewed tomatoes with a little butter, pepper and salt, put 
alternate layers of bread and shrimp, and so on till you fill the 
dish, and last layer being of the crumbs. Bake a light brown 
and serve hot; parsley added is nice. 

TO PREPARE BREAD CRUMBS. 

Dry the crumbs or crackers, pound, sift and put away for use; 
have a beaten egg ready for the fish, oysters, etc, dip in first, 
then into the rolled crumbs, to make them adhere. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Keep your oysters ice cold until your are ready for them, take 
out and lay on a cloth, have your grease boiling hot, dip your 
oysters in meal and drop them in the grease, fry a light brown, 
have your dish ready with a folded napkin, and sprigs of pars- 
ley and serve, 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Butter a pudding dish, roll crackers very fine, put a layer of 
crackers then a layer of oysters, season with salt and pepper, 
put small bits of butter over the oysters, fill the dish nearly 
full, having crackers on top; pour in sweet milk enough to soak 
the crackers. Bake nearly one hour. If too dry while baking 
add a little more milk and butter. 



THE EPICUREAN. 23 



FRICASSEED OYSTERS. 

For a quart can, drain the oysters dry as possible, put a piece 
of butter the size of an egg into your spider and let it get quite 
brown, put in your oysters; as soon as they commence to cook 
add as much more butter, which has been previously well mixed 
with a teaspoonf ul of flour, let it cook a moment and add one 
egg-, beaten with a teaspoonf ul of cream. Cook this a moment 
and pour all over toasted bread. 

TO FRY OYSTERS. 

Use the largest and best oysters; lay them in rows upon a 
clean cloth and press another upon them to absorb the moisture; 
have ready several beaten eggs, and in another dish some finely 
crushed crackers. In the frying pan heat enough butter to en- 
tirely cover the oysters, dip the oysters first into the eggs then 
into the crackers, rolling it or them over that they may become 
well encrusted, drop into the granite frying pan and fry quickly 
to a light brown. Serve dry and let the dish be warm with a 
napkin folded in it — it will absorb the grease — and garnish with 
parsley. 



Sauces^ 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Cut one-half cupful of celery into small pieces, boil it in 
salted water until tender. Add the cooked celery to one cupful 
of white sauce- 

EGG SAUCE FOR BOILED FISH. 

To a pint, or two cupf uls, of wite sauce add three hard-boiled 
eggs cut into slices or small dice and, if liked, a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley. 

WHITE SAUCE FOR FISH. 

Make a white sauce, using with the milk two tablespoonf uls 
of the water in which the fish is boiled; boil in the water with 
the fish five clover, three bay leaves, one onion, eight pepper 
corns and two tablespoonf uls of salt. This will give flavor to 
the fish and to the sauce. 

MINT SAUCE. 

One bunch of mint, one tablespoonful of sugar, three-fourths 
cupful of vinegar.' Rinse the mint in cold water, chop it very 
fine, dissolve the sugar in the vinegar, add the mint and let 
stand for an hour to infuse before using. If the vinegar is too 



24 THE EPICUREAN. 



strong, dilute it with cold water. If the ' sauce is wanted hot 
heat the vinegar and sugar and stir in the chopped mint just 
before serving. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

One quart of cranberries, two cupfuls of sugar, just enough 
water to cover them; pick over the berries carefully and wash 
in cold water, put them in a saucepan (graniteware) with enough 
water to cover them. Cook until tender and when done put 
through a colander and put in a mold, put on ice to jelly. You 
can cut in blocks or serve whole, as you like. 

JELLY SAUCE. 

(Game and Mutton.) 

Melt in a saucepan one tumblerful of currant or of grape jelly, 
add slowly one tablespoonf ul of butter. Let boil one minute, 
remove and just before serving add one tablespoonf ul of sherry 
or of red wine. 

MUSTARD SAUCE. 

Make a roux of one tablespoonf ul of butter and one teaspoon- 
ful of flour; add to it one cupful of stock, one tablespoonf ul of 
French mustard, one tablespoonf ul of vinegar, one teaspoonf ul 
of dry English mustard, one-half teaspoonf ul salt, oneteaspoon- 
ful of sugar, dash of cayenne. Cook slowly for forty minutes. 

CURRY SAUCE. 

Put a tablespoonf ul of butter in a saucepan; when it bubbles 
add a teaspoonful of onion juice and a tablespoonful of curry 
powder mixed with two tablespoonf uls of flour. Let it cook a 
few minutes, add slowly two cupfuls of milk; stir constantly. 

CREAM SHERBET. 

Three quarts of water, whites of six eggs, four lemons, one 
pound and two ounces of sugar, one pint of sweet cream. Mix 
half the sugar with cream and beaten eggs. Mix the rest of the 
sugar with water and lemons. Add all together and freeze. 

CREAM CAKE. 

The whites of six eggs, two-thirds of a cup of sweet milk, one- 
half cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, one 
teaspoonful of baking powder. Bake the cake in large stove 
pan and cut in three portions, putting the custard between the 
layers when the cake is cold. 



THE EPICUREAN. 25 



CUSTARD FOR CAKE. 

One pint of sweet milk, three tablespoonsf ul corn starch, 
yolks of four eggs, half cup of sugar. Flavor the cake with 
lemon, the custard with vanilla. 

MAYONNAISE. 

Yolk of one egg, one-half teaspoonf ul of salt, dash of cayenne, 
one cupful of salad oil, oneandone-halfteaspoonsful lemon juice. 
Let the oil and egg be thoroughly chilled before beginning to 
make mayonnaise. In summer it is well to stand the soup- 
plate in which the dressing is being mixed in a dish of cracked 
ice, stir constantly with a silver fork or a wooden spoon. Have 
the yolk entirely free from any white of the egg, add the salt 
and pepper to the egg and mix them well, then add, drop by 
drop, the oil. The success depends on adding the oil slowly at 
first. It is well to spend half the time incorporating the first 
two spoonsful of oil; after that it can be added in larger quanti- 
ties. After the dissolving has become a little thick, alternate 
a few drops of lemon juice or of vinegar with the oil; a little tar- 
ragon vinegar gives good flavor. If mustard is liked, add one- 
quarter teaspoonf ul of dry mustard with the salt at the begin- 
ning. If the sauce curdles take another yolk, mix it with salt 
and add slowly the curdled mayonnaise. A few drops of ice 
water or a small bit of ice added to the mixture when it begins 
to curdle will sometimes bring it back. This dressing will 
keep for some time in a closed jar in the icebox. The propor- 
tions given are right, but it is usually desirableto make a larger 
quantity. With care more oil can be added to the egg, which 
will give more sauce. A very safe mixture, and one recom- 
mended for summer, is made by using the yolk of a hard-boiled 
egg with a raw yolk. With this the dressing is more quickly 
made and seldom curdles. Lemon juice makes a whiter dress- 
ing than vinegar, but it also makes it a little softer. 

WHITE MAYONNAISE. 

Just before serving add to the above quantity of mayonnaise 
one-half cupful of very stiff whipped cream, or the white of 
one-half an egg whipped very stiff. 

RED MAYONNAISE. 

Dry some lobster coral, pound it to a powder and rub it 
through a sieve, mix it with a litte lemon juice and add it to the 
mayonnaise. Use a little carmine color if deeper shade is 
wanted, or color with well- strained tomato sauce. 



26 THE EPICUREAN. 



Salads* 



TURKEY OR CHICKEN SALAD. 

One bottle of pickle cho wchow, one pound of butter, four lemons ' 
juice, two dozen eggs boiled hard, one-half bunch of celery cut 
fine, season with salt, pepper, mustard, and red pepper, one 
teaspoonf ul of sugar and a little vinegar. Cut your meat up 
with the scissors in coarse blocks, melt the butter, (use butter 
instead of oil) make the dressing with the yolks of the eggs, 
mash while hot and put in the melted butter, juice of the lem- 
ons, pepper, salt, mustard; season to taste and then mix the 
turkey and celery and chop up fine the whites of the egs and 
mix all together. Put on the ice. If you can't get fresh cel- 
ery get can celery, and boil two Irish potatoes and mix with 
the can celery, and you can't tell the difference. 

SALMON SALAD. 

One can of salmon will make enough salad for ten people. 
One can of salmon, little celery chopped fine, some pickle 
chopped fine; season with salt, mustard, pepper (black and red) 
one cup of butter melted, one-half dozen hard-boiled eggs. You 
can serve on lettuce leaves or in parsley shell. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Can be made in the same way asSalmond Salad. You can use 
mayonnaise dressing. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Take nice lettuce, w^ash thoroughly and pick over well, chop 
or cut very fine. Put a nice mayonnaise dressing and cut up 
up some hard boiled eggs. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Take nice large red tomatoes, wash well, cut off the top and 
scrape out the inside, chop up some apples, a little onion and 
the tomato very fine, put a little sugar and a little salt; mix well, 
put back in the cup tomato and serve on a lettuce leaf with may- 
onnaise dressing. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Wash your celery well, cut up with scissors, with some pickle 
and a little parsley chopped fine. Serve with a mayonnaise 
dressing. 



THE EPICUREAN. 27 



POTATO SALAD. 

Boil about six large potatoes well done, mash well, chop one 
onion fine, two hard boiled eggs chopped up fine; make a dress- 
ing of two eggs, one-half cup of vinegar, teaspoonful of butter, 
pepper, salt, and put on the stove and cook until thick, stirring 
all the time; when done pour over the potato and mix w^ell, cut 
up a hard boiled egg in slices and decorate the top of the salad. 
Be sure and put a little sugar. 

POTATO SALAD NO. 2. 

Take boiled potato and shce very thin and also an onion sliced 
very thin, put a layer of potato and a layer of onion and keep on 
until you have your salad dish full; make a dressing like the 
above receipe, or you can make a nice mayonnaise dressing. 

COLD SLAW. 

Take your cabbage, wash thoroughly, cut up very fine, make 
a dressing as follows: Two eggs, one tablespoonful butter, 
little vinegar, pepper, salt, mustard and one teaspoonful sugar. 
Don't put it on the cabbage until cold and then mix well. 

EGG SALAD. 

Twelve hard boiled eggs, peel and cut in slices, some pickle 
cut in the same way, put a layer of egg and a layer of pickle; 
make a dressing as for potato salad, garnish with parsley. 



Desserts* 



LEMON JELLY. 

To one package of gelatine add one pint of cold water, and the 
juice of four lemons. Let it stand one hour, then add one pint 
of boiling water, one-half teaspoon extract of cinnamon and 
three cups of sugar. Let come to a boil, strain through a cloth 
into a mould, set away to cool and serve with whipped cream. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Make the same as lemon jelly, using one lemon and three 
oranges. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

One pint of cream, one pint of sweet milk, one large cup of 
sugar. Whip the cream to a stiff froth, add sugar and milk, 
flavor with tw^o tablespoons extract of coffee and freeze. 



28 THE EPICUREAN. 



ITALIAN CREAM. 

One-half box of gelatine, one half pint of milk. Soak gela- 
tine in milk one half hour, add one pint of milk and the yolks of 
four eggs. Stir well while boiling, and sweeten to taste. Re- 
move from the stove and flavor with one teaspoonf ul of vanilla 
and one wine glass of brandy. Stir in the whites well beaten. 
Pour into a mould to harden. 

WINE JELLY. 

Soak one package of gelatine in a cup of cold water for two 
hours, add three cups of sugar and the juice of three lemons. 
Pour over this one quart of boiling water, stir until dissolved 
then add one pint of sherry wine. Strain through a cloth into 
a mould. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One and one-half pints of rich cream, whipped to a stiff froth, 
one-half cup of powdered sugar, two teaspoons nectarine. Line 
a glass dish with lady fingers or small pieces of cake and pour 
over the whipped cream. 

LEMON SHERBET. 

Four lemons, one quart of sugar, one-half quart of cold wa- 
ter. Freeze. 

FRUIT SHERBET. 

Mix one quart of fruit, one quart of sugar, one and one-half 
quarts of water and two lemons together, then freeze. 



PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM. 



Two quarts of milk, or cream, three tablespoons of arrow- 
root, the whites of eight eggs, well beaten, one pound of pow- 
dered sugar. Boil the milk, thicken with arrowroot, add the 
sugar, pour into the eggs, flavor with vanilla and freeze. 



STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 



Strain one pint of ripe strawberries through a sieve, add one 
pint of cream and four ounces of powdered sugar and freeze. 



APPLE ICE 



Take finely flavored apples, grate them fine, make them very 
sweet and freeze them. They are delicious, prepared thus. 
Pears, peaches or quinces are also very fine served in this 
manner. They may be either grated fine or stewed and run 



THE EPICUREAN. 



through a sieve, then sweetened very sweet and frozen. The 
flavor is much better preserved when the fruit is grated. 

LEMON OR ORANGE CREAM. 

Squeeze a dozen lemons and make the juice thick with sugar, 
then stir in slowly three quarts of cream and freeze. Oranges 
require less sugar. 

WHIPPED SYLLABUB. 

One pint of cream, sifted white sugar to your taste, half a 
tumbler of white wine, the grated rind and juice of one lemon. 
Beat all to a stiff froth and serve. 

ICE CREAM, WITHOUT CREAM. 

One vanilla bean or lemon rind boiled in one quart of milk. 
Take out the bean, or rind, and add the yolks of four eggs, well 
beaten. Heat it scalding hot, but do not boil. Stir in white 
sugar until very sweet, and when cold, freeze. 

FRUIT ICE CREAM. 

Make rich boiled custard, mash into it the soft, ripe fruit, 
either grate or cook the fruit, rub all through a sieve, sweeten 
very sweet and then freeze. 

LEMON ICE. 

To one quart of lemonade add the whites of six eggs, beaten 
to a stiff froth, and freeze. The juice of any other fruit may 
be used the same way. 

ORANGE SHERBET. 

Juice of six oranges and two lemons, one pint of sugar, two 
tablespoonf uls of gelatine, soaked in water. Mix the juice with 
one pint of cold water and add the sugar and pulp of fruit 
Stir in the gelatine and flavor with orange. Freeze solid. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

One can of grated pineapple, one pint of sugar, one pint of 
water, one tablespoonf ul of gelatine, dissolved in hot water, one 
teaspoonf ul of extract of lemon. Mix well and freeze. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

One-half box of gelatine, one quart of milk, yolks of three 
eggs, one cup of sugar. Soak the gelatine in milk for one hour, 
put on the stove and stir until warm. Beat the yolks and the 
sugar together and stir into the boiling ..milk, flavor with vanilla 
and pour into a mould. Serve with cream. 



30 THE EPICUREAN. 



ORANGE ICE. 

One and one-half pints of sugar, three pints of water, the 
juice of eighteen large sized oranges, and two large lemons. 
Boil the sugar and water together thirty minutes. Strain the 
orange juice and add to the other mixture after it has become 
lukewarm. When cold freeze like ice cream. 

LAWN PUNCH. 

Put one pound of sugar and one quart of water on to boil, add 
the grated rind of one orange and lemon, skim and boil for five 
minutes. Strain when cold and add a quart of chopped ice, the 
juice of two lemons, two oranges and one pint of raspberries, 
blackberries, cherries or other fruit. 

ROMAN PUNCH. 

Three cups of good lemonade, one glass of champagne, one 
glass of rum, two tablespoonf uls of orange extract, the whites 
of two eggs and one-half pound of sugar. Mix well and serve 
in glasses half filled with broken ice, or, freeze if preferred, 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET. 

One quart of berries, crushed to a paste, three pints of water, 
the juice of one lemon and one teaspoonful of orange extract. 
Mix and let it stand for three hours then strain out the juice 
and add one pound of sugar. Stir w^ell and set on ice until 
ready to freeze. 

CREAM A LA ROSE. 

Two quarts of fresh cream, two cups of sugar, one teaspoon- 
ful of fruit coloring, two teaspoonfuls of Price's Red Rose, the 
yolks of twelve eggs. Heat the cream boiling hot, stir the su- 
gar, flavoring and coloring in, beat the eggs light and pour into 
the cream, stirring slowly all the time. Boil in a double boiler 
until the consistency of paste and when cool freeze. 

RASPBERRY ROYAL. 

Put four quarts of berries into a stone jar, pour one quart of 
cider vinegar over them, add one pound of sugar and mash to 
a paste. Let stand in the sun four hours then strain and add 
one pint of brandy. Put into bottles, seal and lay in the cellar. 
Stir two tablespoonf uls into a glass of ice water when used. 



THE EPICUREAN. 31 



SWANSDOWN CREAM- 

Whip stiff one pint of cream, then beat to a froth the whites 
of three eggs; sweeten with one cup of sugar, flavor with tw^o 
teaspoons extract of ahnond. Beat all together, pour into a 
dish, set in a bowl of cracked ice and send to the table. Eat 
with sponge cake. 

FROZEN PUDDING. 

One pint cream, yoJks of four eggs, make syrup of one pound 
sugar and one pint of water, put on stove and when it comes to 
a boil, stir in forty blanched almonds, pounded fine, two ounces 
each of chopped citron, raisins and currants, one ounce each of 
candied orange and lemon peel, one glass brandy and freeze. 

PUDDING GLACE. 

Thicken one pint of fresh milk with two tablespoons of ar- 
rowroot, boil three pints milk, pour in the thickened arrowroot, 
also three eggs and three cups of sugar, stir in half a pound 
each of chopped tigs, raisins and citron, flavor with vanilla and 
freeze . 

FROZEN PEACHES. 

One can or twelve large peaches, two cups sugar, one pint 
water and the beaten whites of three eggs, break the peaches 
and stir all ingredients together. Freeze the whole into a form. 

AMBROSIA. 

One dozen oranges, one cocoanut, grated, one and a half cups 
of sugar, layer of each until filled. This will make a rather 
large dish. 

WINE SAUCE. 

Two-third pound butter, melted, three cups sugar, two cups 
Madeira wine with little water in stewpan and boil, roll butter 
in little flour and stir it in the boiling water quickly, add sugar 
and lastly the wine. 

TRANSPARENT PUDDING. 

Four eggs, beaten separately, one cup butter, creamed, one 
cup sugar, add yolks and two tablespoons jelly, flavor to taste, 
add the whites as a meringue. 

TEA CUP PUDDING. 

One cup grated bread, one cup stoned raisins, one cup chopped 
apples, one cup suet, three eggs well beaten, one gill cream, one 
glass brandy, spice and sugar to taste and bake. 



32 THE EPICUREAN. 



CITRON PUDDING. 

Half pound sugar, half pound butter, yolks of six eggs, one 
wine glass brandy, half pound chopped citron. Bake on puffed 
paste, 

SNOW PUDDING. 

One ounce gelatine, dissolved in one pint water, six eggs, 
whites well frosted, one pint boiling water, pour over the dis- 
solved gelatine, one pound sugar, juice of four lemons, beat all 
together until it thickens, pour into a bowl and serve with 
sweetened cream, seasoned with wine and nutmeg. 

FROST PUDDING. 

Dissolve one box gelatine in one pint of water, the whites of 
four eggs to a stiff froth, juice of two large lemons, add all to- 
gether, mix well and pour in mould to cool, the froth will rise 
to the top and make a fresh looking and attractive dish. Serve 
^ith whipped cream or custard. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One pint flour, one and a half tea cups sugar, one cup sweet 
milk, one egg, well beaten, two and a half spoons butter, one 
and a half spoons baking powder. Serve with lemon sauce. 

CORN STARCH PUDDING. 

One pint rich cream, two tablespoons corn starch, half a cup 
sugar, four eggs, whites only, salt and flavoring, beat eggs to 
stiff froth, dissolve the corn starch in alittle milk, stir the sugar 
into the remaining, which place on stove, when it boils add corn 
starch, stir constantly until it becomes a-smooth paste, then stir 
in the beaten whites and let it remain a little longer to cook the 
eggs, flavor with vanilla and pour into the mould. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

With the same receipt for corn starch pudding, first flavor 
the whole with vanilla, take out one-third and flavor the re- 
mainder with chocolate, soften and dissolve with a little milk, 
put one half of the chocolate into a mould dipped in cold water, 
smooth the top, next makea layer of the white pudding, smooth 
also, then the remainder of the chocolate. Serve with whipped 
cream or custard. 

SAND TARTS. 

One pound butter, one pound sugar, five eggs, two nutmegs, 
grated, two pounds flour, one pound almonds blanched and cut 
into thin pieces, beat three whites of the five eggs to a stift" froth; 



THE EPICUREAN. 33 



roll out the dough as thin as possibe and cut into shapes, put 
into pan and with a feather wash them with the whites of the 
egg, then put on each as many almonds as you may fancy, 
sprinkle with pulverized sugar and ground cinnamon, bake in 
moderate oven. The dough is hard to roll thin, but must be as 
it is only good prepared in this way. 

COLD SAUCE FOR PUDDING. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, cream butter and sugar to- 
gether until perfectly white, add w^hite of one egg, beaten thor- 
oughly, Havor with brandy or wine. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Four grated lemons, four eggs, bread crumbs to thicken, 
one cup suet, half cup sweet milk, sugar to taste, steam four 
hours 

SPONGE CAKE PUDDING. 

Six eggs, three cups flour two cups sugar, one cup water, 
one and a half teaspoons baking powder. Serve with hot sauce. 

KISS PUDDING. 

One quart sweet milk, six eggs, leaving out whites of four, 
one cup sugar, beat eggs and sugar together and put milk on to 
boil, and two teaspoons corn starch with eggs, pour this into 
the milk, cook until thick and take off and flavor with vanilla, 
put into pudding pan, beat w^hites and cup sugar and put in 
stove and brown. It is delicious. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak one cup tapioca in milk or water, (enough to cover) soak 
for two hours, beat three eggs with one cup of sugar. Mix all 
together and add one cup of milk, flavor with lemon or vanilla 
and bake. 

GINGER PUDDING. 

Six eggs, four cups sugar, two cups butter, two spoons all- 
spice, two spoons ginger, two spoons yeast powder, six cups of 
flour. Beat all thoroughly together, then bake. Serve with hard 
or liquid sauce. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Dissolve one box gelatine in a pint of cold water, let it stand 
twenty minutes, then pour over it one pint boiling water, which 
will dissolve the gelatine, then sweeten very sweet and add 
juice of three lemons and break into the whites of three eggs, 
take in the cool air and whip with an egg beater until it becomes 



34 THE EPICUREAN. 



white jelly. Pour immediately into a mould and. serve with 
boiled custard. 

POOR MAN'S PUDDING. 

One pint of milk, four eggs, two teaspoons yeast powder, flour 
enough for a thin batter and bake. 

EXCELLENT SAUCE FOR PUDDING. 

Quarter cup butter, one cup sugar, one egg, one wine glass of 

wine or brandy. Cook until it becomes thick. 

« 

DELICIOUS PUDDING. 

Bake a common sponge cake in a layer pan, when ready for 
use, cut in pieces, split and butter, return to the dish, make 
a custard with four eggs to one quart milk, flavor to taste, pour 
over cake and bake half hour. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Three tablespoons melted butter, one cup white sugar, two 
eggs, one pint flour, two teaspoons yeast pow^der, mix in one 
cup sweet milk. Bake three-quarters of an hour. Serve with 
sauce. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One-quarter pound chocolate, grated, three soda crackers 
rolled fine, yolks of six eggs stirred in quarter pound sugar, one 
teaspoon butter, grated rind of four lemons, whites of eggs well 
beaten. Boil one hour in close form. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Half a pound stoned raisins, half a pound currants, four lem- 
ons, juice and grated rind, half a nutmeg, half teaspoon salt, 
half teaspoon cinnamon, one pound bread crumbs, half pound 
brown sugar, seven eggs, three-quarter pound finely chopped 
suet, quarter p^ound citron, two wine glasses brandy two wine 
glasses wine. Boil four hours and serve with rich wine sauce. 

A PRETTY DISH. 

Scoop out the pulp of oranges, fill the hollow skin with wine 
jelly, pUe whipped cream on top and serve. 

ANGEL'S PUDDING. 

Into one quart of fresh milk put half a box of gelatine and 
let it dissolve, beat the yolks of three eggs, one cup of sugar, 
juice of one lemon, add this to the milk and put on stove to boil: 
it must be constantly stirred to keep from curdling. One good 



THE EPICUREAN. 35 



boil is enough. Then season with vanilla and set away to cool. 
When cold, beat the whites of three eggs and add one spoon of 
sugar and stir into'custrad. Dip a mould into cold water and 
pour the mixture into it. Set on ice to congeal and serve with 
whipped cream. 

BUTTERMILK PUDDING. 

Three eggs, three cups buttermilk, one and a half cups sugar, 
two cups of flour, half a cup of butter, one teaspoon soda, flavor 
with nutmeg. Bake a nice brown, and serve with sauce. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Mix one pound suet, one pound flour, one pound currants, one 
pound stoned raisins, rind of one lemon cut flne, four eggs, 
glass of brandy, little salt, little sweet milk. Make it of a proper 
consistency and put in a flowered cloth and boil for twelve hours. 
Serve with sweet sauce and take to the table burning with 
brandy. 

SAUCE TO USE WITH PUDDING. 

One tablespoonf ul fresh butter creamed well, about two cups 
sugar creamed until perfectly smooth, then beat the white of 
one egg into it, flavor with vanilla or brandy, with a little grated 
nutmeg on top. 

HOME-MADE MINCE MEAT. 

Two pounds fresh beef boiled, when cold chop fine; one pound 
beef suet cleaned and strained and minced, five pounds apples 
peeled and chopped, one pound raisins washed and picked, two 
pounds currants, three-fourth pound citron cut fine; one half 
teaspoon cinamon, grated nutmeg, one tablesj^oon ground cloves, 
allspice, mace, one teaspoon fine salt, two and one-half pounds 
sugar, white or brown; one quart sherry, one pint brandy. 

FRUIT SHERBET. 

One dozen lemons, one can grated pineapple, one-half gallon 
water sweetened to taste, one quart rich cream. Freeze. 

SHERBET. 

Two tablespoonsful corn starch dissolved in one and one-half 
pints cold water, pour into three quarts boiling water. Cook 
until thick and clear like starch, stir into it while hot two pints 
sugar; when cold add the juice of six lemons strained, take the 
rinds and boil into three-fourths pint of water and strain into a 
larger amount. When beginning to freeze add one and one-half 
pints milk or cream, 



36 



THE EPICUREAN. 



FROZEN PEACHES. 

Take one-half bucket of soft yellow peeled peaches, put 
through a collander, sweeten to taste, add one quart rich cream. 
Freeze. 

LEMON FLOAT. 

Boil one quart of fresh milk and three tablespoonsf ul sugar, 
mix one tablespoonf ul of corn starch stirred smoothly, and the 
grated rind of one lemon. When the whole has boiled ten min- 
utes add the yolks of three eggs well beaten and stir constantly 
for five minutes. Put the sauce pan in which it was cooked into 
pail of ice water and stir some time, then strain into a pudding 
dish. Thoroughly beat the whites of the eggs, add the juice of 
the lemon and two tablespoonful of sugar, pour over the pud- 
ding and serve ice cold. Grated cocoanut can be added to the 
whites with advantage. 

LEMON MERINGUE PUDDING. 

One quart of fresh milk, two cups of bread crumbs, four eggs, 
half a cup of butter, one cup of sugar, juice of one large lemon 
and half the rind grated. Soak the bread crumbs in milk, add 
the beaten yolks of the eggs, with the butter and sugar rubbed 
to cream, also the lemon. Bake in a buttered dish until firm 
and slightly brown, draw to the open door and cover with me- 
ringue of the whites whipped to a froth, with three tablespoons- 
f ul of powdered sugar over the whole and serve cold. 

QUEEN PUDDING. 

Sift two cups of fiour and add one tablespoonful of butter, 
two tablespoonsful of sugar, three eggs well beaten, one and 
one-half pints of milk; flavor with extract of lemon, turn in a 
greased pudding pan, and set in a quick oven to bake for tw^enty 
minutes. Serve with hard sauce. 

APPLE FLOAT. 

Put ten large apples in a biscuit pan and put them in the oven 
to bake with a little water. When baked mash them, taking the 
core and peeling away, put aside. Take eight whites of eggs 
and beat to a stiff froth with about five tablespoons of sugar. 
Mix with apples just before serving. If not sweet enough add 
sugar while mixing with apple. Add apple by degrees and 
flavor with vanilla. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 

Blanch the almonds by putting them in boiling water a min- 
ute then throwing them in cold water and rubbing between the 



THE EPICUREAN. 37 



hands. For each cupful of nuts put into a bowl oil or butter 
melted, stir the almonds well and let stand an hour, then 
sprinkle with salt, allowing a tablespoonful for each cupful of 
nuts . Put the almonds into a clean baking pan and in a mod- 
erate oven, stirring until a delicate brown. In a quarter of an 
hour they should be crisp. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

Gra.te a quarter of a pound of cheese and melt in the oven? 
when melted add one egg and a quarter of a cup of sweet milk 
well beaten together. Pepper and salt to taste, beat all until it 
resembles custard and bake in a hot oven until brown. 

EGG ROLLS. 

Take two eggs well beaten, one small teacupful of milk, one 
teaspoonful of lard or melted butter, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder and enough flour to make as stiff as biscuit. Roll out 
and bake in a hot oven. 

GINGER CAKE. 

One cup butter, five cups flour, two cups molasses, one and 
one-half cups sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, one teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in the milk, three eggs, two teaspoonsful cinna- 
mon, two of allspice. Cream the butter then add molasses and 
sugar, then spices, then egg well beaten, and flour and milk 
alternately. 

LEMON JELLY. 

One-half cup of gelatine soaked in one-half cup cold water 
for two hours, two cups of boiling water, one cup sugar, one 
half cup lemon juice, strain and put in a mould and serve with 
cream. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One quart cream, whites of six eggs, yolks of four eggs, thir- 
teen ounces of sugar, one-half ounce gelatine, one-half pint 
milk, vanilla flavoring. Dissolve gelatine in milk then add yolks 
of eggs and sugar, then when cold mix it with the cream, 
then add the whites of the eggs. Put into a mould with layers 
of sponge cake or lady fingers alternately. 

BANANA CHARLOTTE. 

Makes a good desert and one capable of being prepared in a 
hurry. Line the sides of a quart mould with slices of sponge 
cake. Cover the bottom of the mould with a layer of thinly 
sliced banana. Fill the mould with stiff whipped cream and set 



38 THE EPICUREAN. 



it aside in the ice box until wanted, then remove carefully from 
the mould and serve. 

APPLE-RICE PUDDING. 

Pare, quarter and core three tart apples and spread loosely in 
a buttered pudding dish, add three - quarters cupful of sugar 
and three tablespoonsful rice to one quart of milk; turn the mix- 
ture over the apples, spread a few bits of butter over the top 
and bake in a moderate oven four hours. Serve hot with sweet- 
ened whipped cream. 

A DELICATE PUDDING. , 

Cream a pound of butter and sugar, add eight well beaten 
eggs, flavor the mixture with nutmeg. Line a pudding dish 
with thin puff paste, pour in the pudding and set in a very hot 
oven for ten minutes. Serve without sauce. 

HOME-MADE FLAVORING. 

A most delicious home-made flavoring may be prepared by 
grating into one pint of alcohol the yellow rind of four lemons; 
shake this daily for three or four weeks and at the end of that 
time it will be ready for use. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One quart of fresh cream and one box gelatine — put a httle 
cold water on the gelatine — when it is soft pour enough boiling 
water on to dissolve thoroughly, then put on fire and boil about 
fifteen or twenty minutes, take off and let cool. Whip the cream 
to make light, sweeten and flavor to taste. When the gelatine is 
cold, pour with the cream and before it becomes too thick pour 
over the sponge cake which you have already prepared in slices 
in a dish, and set on ice. 

STRAWBERRY ICE. 

A quart of ripe strawberries, add a pound of sugar and the 
juice of two lemons to them; mash and mix well, let stand one 
hour, strain; add a quart of ice water, turn into a freezer and 
freeze. 

AMBROSIA. 

Two dozen bananas, half a dozen oranges, slice and sweeten 
with sugar. Serve with cream. 



THE EPICUREAN. 39 



ROYAL STUFFED TURKEY. 

Take a large fat turkey and prepare it as usual for baking; 
next a good fat duck with which you stuff the turkey, then a 
medium size broiled chicken with which you stuff the duck, 
next a quail or woodcock for stuffing the chicken, then with a 
ricebird you stuff the quail or woodcock, then comes one 
good plump oyster for stuffiing the ricebird, using as much 
well seasoned dressing as may be necessary. Each bird should 
be partially cooked before the stuffing process to be sure they 
are thoroughly done. This will insure you a very unique and 
stylish dish, and one not often seen. 

FRIED BRAINS. 

First scald them, then remove the skin, salt and pepper, cut 
them in slices, roll in meal and fry in hot lard. Serve on white 
napkin in dish garnished with parsley. 

RICE CROQUET. 

One quart milk, one cup rice, one tablespoonf ul chopped pars- 
ley, salt and pepper to taste, yolks of four eggs. Wash the 
rice and put in a small boiler with the milk; boil about one hour 
until thick, then beat until smooth, add the yolks of eggs and 
cook ten minutes longer; take from the fire, add the parsley and 
seasoning, mix well and turn out on a plate, let stand till very 
cold, then form into cylinders, dipped first in beaten egg and 
bread crumbs, fry in hot oil or lard. 

EGG ROLLS. 

Take two eggs well beaten, one small teacup of milk, one tea- 
spoon of lard or melted butter, two teaspoons baking powder, 
enough flour to make as stiff as biscuits, roll out the desired 
size and bake in a hot oven. 

FRIED FISH. 

Take nice fresh fish, clean them thoroughly, washing and 
scraping in three or four waters; beat up eggs sufficient, satu- 
rate the pieces with the egg and dip in corn meal. Have your 
grease boiling hot and place the fish flesh side down, and fry 
until brown. 

TO BROIL FISH. 

Rub over with- melted butter and broil over a hot clear fire. 
When done sprinkle with pepper and salt, a little lemon Juice, a 
little parsley and some melted butter. 



40 THE EPICUREAN. 



DEVILED CRABS. 

Boil until pink then take off shell, grated crust of toasted 
light bread, cut the meat very fine, season highly with butter, 
pepper and salt, then fill the shells and sprinkle with grated 
bread crumbs on top and then bake until light brown. 

FRIED FROGS. 

The hind legs only are used. Put them in salted boiling water, 
a little lemon juice, and boil them three minutes, dry and dip 
them in cracker dust, then in eggs; half a cup of milk mixed in 
two eggs seasoned with pepper and salt, then in the bread 
crumbs again. When they are breaded clean off bone at the 
end, put them in a wire basket and dip in boiling lard to fry. 
Place them on a hot plattter and serve while hot and crisp. 

MOCK OYSTER. 

One pint of stewed tomatoes, into which stir soda (a small 
spoon) until it ceases to foam, three pints of boiling milk which 
has been thickened by two tablespoonsful of corn starch, one 
tablespoonful butter, and add salt and pepper to taste. Mix. 
Let boil and serve. 

PATATE A LA ARISTOCRAT. 

Take smooth potatoes and wash them clean and put into bake, 
and when done take them out and cut one end off and take the 
inner portion out and season with butter, salt and a little pep- 
per, and sweet milk, and then put it back in the peeling and put 
back in the stove and brown. 

POTATO BALLS. 

Peel, clean neatly and boil in salted water for thirty minutes 
eight good sized, sound, round yellow potatoes; drain and re- 
turn them to the same pan and wash them well, adding two egg 
yolks and the whites beaten to a froth, three tablespoonsful of 
cream and a teaspoonf ul of chopped parsley, very little cloves, 
half a pinch of salt, and a third of a pinch of nutmeg. Mix well 
together for two minutes, and dip about a half a tablespoonful 
at a ti^e into frying batter, slide them into very hot fat and 
leave them in for three minutes — this swells them and forms 
them in to species of fritters — place in a very hot dish with a 
folded napkin and serve. 



THE EPICUREAN. 41 



How To Carve* 



This is an art that but few possess, and one that should not 
be overlooked by heads of families, as they are often placed 
in a very embarrassing position by not being master of the situ- 
ation, and a few hints upon this subject will not be out of place, 
and I give them from the pen of one who has had thirty years 
experience at the head of his table. 

TURKEYS, CHICKENS OR DUCKS. * 

Lay the fowl on its back, stick your fork firmly into its breast 
bone, commence by removing the wing and leg on first one side 
and then the other. This can be easily done without removing 
the fork by a little care in striking the joints. You then proceed 
to cut carefully the breast into thin slices, commencing at the 
front of the breast and working back until you have removed 
the flesh from that side, and the same with the other side; you 
can then take off the side bone and back, and nothing remains 
but the carcas. Next you can dissect the legs and wings. Then 
you are prepared to serve your guests to such as they may pre- 
fer. 

For an ordinary family a turkey is rather more than they can 
consume at one meal, and I would suggest that in this caseonly 
one side of the fowl be disturbed, leavingthe other intact, which 
presents a very nice appearance for the next meal. 

Birds are generally served whole; if not, it is only necessary 
to carve them in the center. 

Ham — Commence near the hock and carve in thin slices, 
straight to the bone, making an undercut which will leave the 
slices separate. 

Saddle of mutton, lamb or venison the same as ham. 

Roast beef. — This is carved according to the cut. Rib roast 
should be carved in thin slices down the bone with a slight un- 
dercut to separate them. Round roast, in thin slices from out- 
side. 

All meat should be cut across the grain if possible, which is 
far more tender when carved in this way. 

CHICKEN CHARTREUSE. 

Mix one cupful of cooked chicken minced very fine with one 
teaspoonf ul chopped parsley, one-half teaspoonf ul onion juice, 
one-fourth teaspoonful salt, two tablespoonsful tomato juice, one 
beaten egg, dash of pepper. Grease well a charlotte russe or 



THE EPICUREAN. 



pudding mould, li*ne it one inch thick with boiled rice, fill the 
center with the chicken mixture and cover the top with rice so 
the chicken is entirely encased and the mould is full and even. 
Cover and cook in steamer for forty-five minutes. Serve with 
it a tomato sauce. Pour a little of the sauce on the dish around 
the form, not over it. 

GIBLET SAUCE. 

Boil the giblets until tender, chop them but not very fine, add 
a tablespoonf ul of flour to the pan in which the chicken was 
roasted, let it brown — stirring constantly, add slowly a cupful 
of water in which the giblets were boiled, season with salt and 
pepper, strain and add the chopped giblets. Serve in a sauce- 
boat. The liver is a tidbit and should be roasted and served 
with the chicken, instead of being used in the sauce. 

TO BONE A FOWL. 

Wash and singe the fowl, take off the head and legs and re- 
move the tendons as directed for drawing. When a fowl is to be 
boned it is not drawn. The work of boning is not difficult but 
requires care and a little practice. The skin must not be broken. 
Use a small pointed kinife, cut the skin down the full length of 
the back, then beginning at the neck carefully scrape ' the meat 
away from the bone, keeping the knife close to the bone. When 
the joints of the wings and legs are met break them back and 
proceed to free the meat from the carcass. When one side is 
free, turn the fowl and do the same on the other side. The 
skin is drawn tightly over the breast bone, and care must be 
used to detach it w^ithout ]3iercing the skin. When the meat is 
free from the carcass, remove the bones from the legs and 
wings, turning the meat down or inside out, as the bones are 
exposed and using care not to break the skin at the joints. The 
end bones of the wings cannot be removed and the whole end 
joint may be cut off or left as it is. 

GRILLED BONES. 

Take the wings, second joints, and drumsticks of cold cooked 
chicken, dip them in melted butter, sprinkle them with salt and 
pepper and broil them until they are very hot and browned. 

BAKED CRABS 

Take the meat of the crabs and season very highly with salt, 
pepper and butter, two eggs, some crackers or bread crumbs, 
mix well all together, mustard pickle all together, put back into 
the shells and sprinkle cracker crumbs over the top and a piece 



THE EPICUREAN. 43 



of butter on each one. Pat in the stove to brown, serve with 
parsley and lemon. 

BAKED PISH. 

Take a large white fish or any fish you wish to bake, rub 
thoroughly inside and out with salt and cayenne pepper. Make 
a dressing as follows: Put in all the fish will contain of stuf- 
fing and the remainder on top of the fish. Serve in the dish you 
baked it in. 

DRESSING. 

One can tomatoes, one can of shrimps, one can mushrooms, 
one can of oysters, without the liquor, one large onion, chopped 
tine. Season with salt and cayenne pepper. 

FRIED FISH. 

Take nice fresh fish, clean them thoroughly, washing and 
scraping in three or four waters. Beat up eggs sufficient, sat- 
urate the pieces with the egg and dip in flour. Have your 
grease boiling hot, and place the fish, flesh side down and fry 
until brown. Serve on a napkin garnished wath parsley. 

PISH, A LA CREME. 

Boil your fish, remove the bones, and pick in small pieces, 
mix together one pint cream, two tablespoons of flour, one 
onion chopped fine, one teacup of butter. Set on the fire and 
stir untill thick as custard. Pill a baking dish alternately with 
the fish and pounded crackers and bake half an hour. 

TO BROIL FISH. 

Rub over with melted butter and broil over a hot clear fire, 
when done sprinkle with pepper and salt, a little lemon 
juice, a little jjarsley, and some melted butter. If you can, al- 
ways decorate your dishes w^ith parsley, it looks more temptitg. 

TURBOT A LA CREME. 

Boil a large fish with plenty of salt until the skin slips. 
When cool flake it off, throwing aw^ay the bones and skin. 
(Cut off carefully the head and tail so that you can use them 
again if desired. ) Boil one quart rich milk or cream and stir 
into it three tablespoonsf ul of flour, making it perfectly smooth. 
Then add one onion, a bunch of parsley tied up in mustard bag. 
When boiled take out the bag, and melt one-fourth pound of but- 
ter and mix with the boiled cream, butter a deep dish and put 
in first a layer of fish, then one of the sauce alternately uiitil 
the dish is full, making the sauce come last, strew over the top 
a layer of crackers, rolled fine, and grated cheese. Bake one 



44 THE EPICUREAN. 



hour and garnish with parsley, boiled eggs, sliced, and lemons 
cut in slices. Serve hot with mayonnaise sauce. It is a nice 
way to mould the fish with your hands into the shape of fish, 
and after it is baked replace the head and tail and bring it to 
the table. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

For three pounds of chicken take two and a half heaping table- 
spoonsful of butter and cream, stir into this slowly one half pint 
of boiling milk until it becomes thick. When cold mix with 
the minced chicken and add pepper, salt, a little celery salt and 
juice of one lemon, roll in egg and cracker crumbs and fry in 
hot lard. Brains croquette can be made the same way. 



How to Cook Chicken* 



FRIED CHICKEN 

It is nicer to clean your chicken a day before you use them 
and lay them away in salt. They are sweeter and taste a good 
deal better. Well, have your chicken all prepared, wash salt off 
well and season with pepper and a little salt, dip in an egg and 
flour, have your lard red hot, then put your chicken and fry 
a dark brown, have your dish ready with a napkin. Garnish 
the dish with a little parsley. 

GRAVY. 

Put a little flour in the grease and brown it, season with pep- 
per and salt, you can either put milk or water and a little 
chopped parsley. 

BAKED CHICKEN. 

Have your chicken nicely cleaned. Make dressing out of cold 
corn bread and cold biscuit, pour boiling water to soften them, 
chop a little onion, season with pepper and salt and a lump of 
butter and an egg, mix well together, season very high and put 
on the stove to get thoroughly heated, you can add oysters, 
which are very nice, then stuff your chicken, sprinkle a little flour 
over the chicken, salt and pepper and put a slice of bacon on 
the chicken, put some water, hot water and put in the stove. 
Baste once and awhile. 

BROILED CHICKEN. 

Have your chicken ready, cut open in the back, wash well, 



THE EPICUREAN. 45 



season with pepper and salt, have your broiler hot, put your 
chicken on and turn from one side to the other until done, then 
take off and put a good deal of butter and serve. Garnish the 
dish with parsley. 

CHICKEN MOULD. 

Boil a chicken till thoroughly done, bone and chop line, sea- 
son with pepper, salt drawn butter and celery, slice four hard 
boiled eggs and line a dish or bowl, pour in the prepared chicken 
and if necessary to moisten, add a little of the broth. When 
cold turn out of the mould and slice for tea. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Cut up the chicken and boil until tender. Mix a little flour, 
smooth with water, season with salt, pepper and butter and let 
it come to a boil. Line a deep pan with rich pie crust, dredge 
the bottom with flour, lay the chicken in and season with pep- 
per, salt and thin bacon, then a layer of oysters alternately. 
Finally pour in gravy and cover with crust. * 



Cooked Eggs* 



BOILED EGGS. 

For soft boiled, place the ^^^ in clear, cold water in a vessel 
over a hot fire and let it remain for five to six minutes. For 
hard boiled let them remain from ten to twelve minutes. 
This you will find a great improvement upon the usual method 
of placing them in boiling water. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Pour a cup of cream into a frying pan, wiien hot pour in a 
dozen eggs, previously broken in a dish, cook slowly; stirring 
constantly, season with butter, pepper and salt and serve hot. 

BAKED EGGS. 

Break eight eggs into a well buttered dish, sprinkle with pep- 
per and salt, bits of butter and three tablespoons of cream. 
Bake about twenty minutes and serve hot. 

PICKLE EGGS. 

Take about one dozen nice fresh eggs and boil them hard and 
peel them, cut round and take out the yellow^ and season with 
pepper, salt and butter and a little vinegar and then put back 



46 THE EPICUREAN. 



in the white and stick together with toothpick and tie with baby 
ribbon on one end. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Place on the fire a shallow stew-pan with boiling water, season 
with one tablespoon of vinegar and a little salt; break the eggs 
on a plate, a few at a time, let them slip into the water without 
mixing, when done take up gently with a strainer and serve on 
delicate slices of bread toasted. Garnish with parsley and 
serve hot. 

EGG FRICASIE. 

Break a couple of eggs in a buttered individual dish, season 
with salt and pepper, bake until the w^hites are set, serve in same 
dish and garnish with water cresses. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Melt about two or three ounces of fresh butter in the pan, 
break into it one dozen fresh eggs, season with teaspoon of salt, 
about half teaspoon of pepper, and flavoring of nutmeg, mix 
thoroughly for two or three minutes, having the pan on a hot 
stove. A flavoring of fresh lemon is very nice. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

Take as many egg as you like and boil them hard and then 
peel them and cut in half and take out the yolks and have some 
grated ham and a little pickle and season with butter, salt, and 
pepper and mix all together and put back in white, and serve in 
a dish garnished with parsley. They are nice for a picnic or 
lunch. 

BLANC MANGE. 

One quart of fresh milk, three tablespoonful of corn starch, 
put the milk to boil and then put in corn starch dissolved in a 
little, milk and then put one-half cup of sugar and a pinch of salt, 
then flavor to taste and pour in a mould and serve with boiled 
custard or cream. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

Take as many eggs as you desire and boil hard, when done 
pour off hot water aud put some cold water and peel, cut into 
and take out the yolk and mash, season with pepper, salt and 
butter melted, some chopped ham mixed alltogether and put 
back in the whites. They are good for picnics. 

PICKLED EGGS. 

Prepare as for stuffed eggs, but leave out the ham, put 



THE EPICUREAN. 47 



chopped pickle and a little vinegar, and sprinkle a little bread 
crumbs over the top and put in the stove to brown. 

YOLKS OF EGGS. 

Yolks of eggs can be used by beating them thoroughly and 
putting milk or cream and season with pepper and salt. Have 
your . ]3an hot with some butter and scramble. You can 
not tell them from brains. 

SCALLOPED EGGS. 

Take hard-boiled eggs and half a cup of drawn butter, one cup 
of bread crumbs, three-fourths cup of minced cold meat or a 
box of deviled tongue or chicken. Butter the dish and put al- 
ternate layers of meat and sliced eggs, and pour over the drawn 
butter, sprinkle the crumbs over the top, seasoning with a lit- 
tle salt, pepper and bits of butter. Bake ten minutes until 
brown. 

BAKED EGGS. 

Break eighteggs in a buttered individual dish with pep- 
per and salt, bits of butter and three tablespoonsf ul of cream. 
Bake about twenty minutes and serve hot. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Pour a cup of cream into a frying pan, when hot pour in a 
dozen.eggs previously broden in a dish, cook slowly stirring con- 
stantly. Season with butter, pepper and salt, and serve hot. 

FRENCH OMELETTE. 

Six eggs, two teaspoons of butter melted, one cup of boiling 
milk, one cup of bread crumbs, salt and pepper to taste — suffi- 
cient for two cakes. Fry in butter and when nearly done turn 
each one together in shape of half moon, garnish with parsley 
and serve hot. 

WASHINGTON OMELET. 

Six eggs beaten twelve times, put on your omelet pah, put a 
little butter — not very much — and when hot put your well 
beaten eggs iii and have ready some chopped ham — about a half 
a cup — and when it begins to rise sprinkle the ham over the top 
and a little salt, take a knife and cut around the sides, and have 
ready a dish red hot and roll your omelet over and turn out in 
the dish. Must be eaten at once. Delicious. 



EGG OMELET WITH OYSTERS. 



Allow one egg for each person. Beat whites and yolks sep- 
arately, very light, season with butter and pepper and just be- 



48 THE EPICUREAN. 



fore cooling add the oysters which have been previously scalded 
in their liquor. 

OMELET WITH RUM. 

This is a delicious omelet. Add a little sugar to the eggs, 
make as a plain omelet. When turned on the hot dish sprinkle 
a little sugar over the top, pour a little rum and set on fire. 
Serve on the table while the rum is burning. 

GREEN CORN OMELET. 

Cut the grains from a dozen ears of sweet corn, season with 
salt and pepper and stir into it five well beaten eggs. Take a 
tablespoon of it and roll in bread crumbs and fry brown. 



Sandwiches* 



If bread is used for sandwiches it should be made especially 
for the purpose in good sized square loaves that the slices may 
be cut into fancy shapes, without waste. Butter may be used 
perfectly plain or it may be seasoned or worked into a soft condi- 
tion, and lemon juice, parsley or paprika added. 

For caviar sandwiches the bread may be toasted or it may be 
carefully fried in oil. 

CANNIBAL SANDWICHES OF RYE BREAD. 

Put half a pound of raw beef through a meat chopper, add a 
teaspoonf ul of salt and a dash of red pepper and a tablespoon- 
f ul of onion juice. Spread this over buttered rye or brown 
bread, L cover with another piece of bread and trim oif all 
the crust. 

SANDWICHES MADE WITH COLD MUTTON. 

Chop cold cooked mutton very fine: to each pint add a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of capers, a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice. Spread this quickly over buttered whole wheat 
bread. Cover with another slice, trim off the crust and serve 
on a bed of lettuce leaves. 

CHICKEN AND TONGUE SANDWICHES. 

Chop cold boiled tongue and chicken, take equal quantities 
and mix with each pint of meat a quarter of a cup of melted but- 
ter, the yolk of one egg beaten, a little black pepj)er and a tea- 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Spread this over the but- 
tered bread and trim off all the crust. 



THE EPICUREAN. 49 



WATER CRESS SALAD. 

Select fresh, crisp, well cleaned cress, cut fine, mix with the 
following dressing: Mix very slowly one-half teaspoonf ul each 
of salt and dry mustard. Oae teaspoonful sugar, with beaten 
yolks of two eggs; then very gradually pour on this, beating con- 
stantly, four tablespoonfuls of soft melted butter; then as grad- 
ually add six tablespoonfuls of vinegar; stir smooth and cook 
in double boiler until thick. Then pour over whipped whites 
of two eggs. When cold add one small cup of whipped cream. 
With this salad should be served a cheese ball, for which this 
is the receipe: Grate one cup of cheese and put into it the 
whipped white of one egg, make into small balls and plunge into 
smoking fat. Very delicious. 

VIRGINIA SALAD. 

Choose a large head of curly lettuce, open and press apart 
and remove with a sharp knife the inner leaves, wash and let it 
serve as a case or mould from which to serve the following 
salad: Chop cabbage fine and mix with a cooked dressing made 
as follows: Mix until smooth one tables poonful of butter, one 
teaspoonful of Hour, fifteen drops onion oil, one-half cup hot 
vinegar. Beat with wooden spoon, cook ten minutes, pour onto 
one egg beaten with one-half teaspoonful each of salt, sugar, 
mustard and a pinch of cayenne. Cook three minutes and cool. 
Thin at time of serving with one cup of thick sour cream. 

BAKED HOMINY. 

The hominy may be fresh boiled for this dish, or it may be 
left over from the morning meal. If so, it must be warmed be- 
fore mixed with one egg, a piece of butter the size of a hickory 
nut. Salt to taste, add milk or cream to form a batter of me- 
dium consistency. Put into a shallow baking dish and bake a 
delicate crisp, brown on top and sides. It should not be over 
two inches deep in the pan, 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Shoestring potatoes cut in long strips, lay in salt water for 
about one hour, put out on a cloth to dry and fry in hot lard. 
When fried put in a colander — will keep them from being greasy. 

POTATO CHIPS. 

Slice your potatoes and put in ice cold water with salt, let 
stand for an hour. Then put on a cloth, then fry in red hot lard. 



50 



THE EPICUREAN. 



IRISH POTATO BALLS. 



If you have any cold potatoes left from dinner save them 
for breakfast. Mash them, season with pepper, salt, an egg, 
make out in balls and fry in hot lard. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Put boiling water on potatoes and a little salt. 

NICE WAY TO FIX IRISH POTATOES. 

Peel them, cut in dice shape, put on to boil until tender, take 
off, pour water off, have some grated cheese and put a layer of 
potatoes , salt and pepper and a layer of cheese until you have 
your pan full, and on top put cheese and a little butter and 
sweet milk. Bake. 

STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS. 

Take out the seeds at the top or side, make a stuffing of any 
kind of cold meat chopped fine, some bread crumbs, onions and 
Irish potatoes, butter, pepper and salt. Stuff the peppers and 
bake. Pour a little hot water in the pan after peppers are ar- 
ranged. 

TO DRESS CUCUMBERS. 

Gather early in the morning the young and tender cucum- 
bers, peel and lay in ice water. Just before dinner slice the 
cucumbers and put alternate layers of thinly sliced onions 
sprinkled with salt and pepper. Pour over a cup of vinegar, 
and lay a lump of ice on top. 

CAROLINA BOILED RICE. 

Pick clean and wash well, allowing it to stand in last water 
until ready to put on the fire. Prepare a saucepan with water 
and a little salt a.nd when it boils sprinkle in the rice. Boil hard 
for twenty minutes, keeping it covered. Take off the fire, pour 
off the water and set on the back of the stove with the lid off to 
allow the rice to separate. It should be dry and white and the 
grains unbroken. To be sure of success use one cup of rice 
and two cups of water, let it boil without stirring, and when the 
water is dried out the rice is ready for serving. 

BAKED EGG PLANTS. 

Cut the egg plants half in two, put them on to boil, when done 
take the inside out and season with pepper, salt, butter, cracker 



THE EPICUREAN. 51 



crumbs or grated bread crumbs, put a pinch of red pepper, 
put back in the peeling, sprinkle crumbs over the top and a 
piece of butter. Put in the stove to bake. 

FRIED EGG PLATS. 

Slice the egg plants and peel, first lay in salt water for half 
an hour, make a batter, dip egg plant in, fry either in butter 
or lard. Ought to be eaten at once. 

FRIED APPLES. 

Cut apples in slices, fry in butter or lard, when done sprinkle 
sugar and serve. 

CORN PUDDING. 

Grate your corn, beat up about three eggs, and a little sweet 
milk, salt, pepper, mix all together, and put in the stove and 
bake for about half an hour. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

Make a batter of two eggs, sweet milk, salt, put some corn 
and mix well. Fry in hot lard a spoonful at a time. 

RICE FRITTERS. 

Take cold rice left from dinner, make a batter and put your 
rice in and fry a spoonful at a time in hot lard. 

VEGETABLES. 

All vegetables should be cooked with boiling water, and a lit- 
tle salt in the water. 

RICE. 

Rice is better steamed. Wash your rice and let set for about 
an hour with fresh water on it, pour off the cold water and pour 
boiling water enough to cover it well and dont add water — put 
enough in the first place to cook — and a little salt. It shoulb be 
cooked in sistern water. By putting a little vinegar or lemon 
juice will whiten the rice. 

• FRIED GRITS. 

Take cold grits and cut into slices, dip in eggs and fry in hot 
lard. 

FRIED APPLES. 

Take large nice apples and fry in butter, when done sprinkle 
with sugar. Serve for dinner or breakfast. 



52 THE EPICUREAN. 



Tomatoes* 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Take fresh tomatoes and wash them, cut off one end and take 
out the inside and season them with pepper, salt, butter and 
some cracker crumbs, mix all together and put back in the 
shell, sprinkle cracker crumbs over the top and a lump of but- 
ter. Put in the stove to brown. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Wash your tomatoes, slice, then make a batter of one egg, a 
little sweet milk, salt, dip your tomatoes in the batter and fry 
hot lard and serve- 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

(No. 1.) 

Six large tomatoes; remove the insides. Season with salt, 
pepper and butter. Add a few bread crumbs. Place in the 
peeling, sprinkle with bread crumbs and put a lump of butter 
on each tomato. Bake to a light brown and serve on lettuce or 
parsley leaf. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

(No. 2.) 

One can tomatoes or fresh, two hard boiled eggs, one onion 
chopped fine, season with salt, pepper and butter, add a few 
bread crumbs. Place in pan and bake half hour. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Take old biscuits and cut half in two, dip in egg and milk and 
fry ia hot lard. If desired sprinkle little suggar. 



COLOGNES. 

SACHET POWDERS.. 

One ounce calamus root, one ounce arris root, rose leaves and 
coriander, two ounces lavender flowers, one-fourth drachm of 
mace and cinnamon, five grains musk. Reduce to a coarse 
powder. 

LAVENDER WATER. 

One-half ounce oil lavender, one-eighth ounce oU bergamot, 



THE EPICUREAN. 



53 



one-fourth ounce extract musk, ei^ht ounces water, twenty -four 
ounces cologne spirits. Mix. Agitate occasionally for two or 
three weeks, then lilter. 



Ess. Bergamont, 


10 parts 


" Orange, 


6 " 


" Lemon, 


6 '' 


" Nerole, 


2 " 


Ext. Orris, 




'' Ambergris, 


2 '' 



FLORAL COLOGNE. 

Ess. Cassia, 4 parts. 

" Lavendar, 2 " 

'' Santel, 2 " 

" Rose Geranium, 4 " 

Ext. Monqua, 2 " 

• Cologne Spts. 200 
Rose Water, 50 " 

Mix essence with cologne spirits and gradually add the rose 
water. If milky after standing, add enough cologne spirits to 
make clear. 

MUSK COLOGNE. 

Ess. Bergomont 2 parts. 

" Lavender 2 

" Lemon 4 

" Nerole 1 

Musk 4 

Cologne Spirits 60 

Rose Water 10 

Mix the essences with cologne spirits, add the rose water 
gradually, and then enough cologne spirits to make it clear if 
milky. 

LAVENDER WATER OR COLOGNE. 

Ess. Lavender 3 parts. 

" Lemon 2 

" Cassia 1 

Cloves 1 

Santal 1 

Cologne Spirits 60 

Water 10 

Mix the essences with the cologne spirits, add the water 
gradually, and then enough cologne spirits to clear if milky. 



Wedding Anniversaries. 



First year, cotton wedding. 
Second year, paper wedding. 
Fifth year, wooden wedding. 
Tenth year, tin wedding. 



54 THE EPICUREAN. 



Twelfth year, silk and linnen wedding. 
Fifteenth year, crystal wedding. 
Twentieth year, china wedding. 
Twenty-fifth year, silver wedding. 
Thirtieth year, pearl wedding. 
Fortieth year, ruby wedding. 
Fiftieth year, golden wedding. 
Seventy-fifth year, diamond wedding. 



FIG SANDWICHES IN ROLLS. 

Split a dozen figs, scrape out the soft portion, rejecting the 
skins; rub this to a paste. Butter either white or brown bread, 
then cut the slices from the loaf as thin as possible; remove the 
crust, spread over the paste; roll the bread carefully, press for 
a moment until there is no danger of the roll opening, then roll 
it in a piece of tissue paper, twisting the ends as you would an 
old-fashioned motto, or it may be tied with narrow baby ribbon 
of any color. 

CRAB AND LOBSTER SANDWICHES. 

Have the crabs boiled, and the meat nicely picked out. Cut 
the crust from a loaf of bread and cut off slices one-half inch 
thick and cover them thickly with the picked crab meat, put 
over a tablespoon of French dressing mayonnaise. Cover with 
another slice of bread, cut into fancy shapes and serve. 

For lobster sandwiches you may use Boston Brown bread. 
Remove the meat from a nicely boiled lobster, cut into dice an 
hour before using. Dust with salt, red pepper, either lemon 
juice or vinegar near serving time. Put a goodly layer of lob- 
ster ov^r bread, cover with another, press together and serve. 

CELERY SANDWICHES WITH MAYONNAISE. 

Boil slowly for fifteen minutes four eggs, remove the shells, 
chop the whites very fine or put them through a vegetable 
press, mixing with them a little shredded celery. Cut the crust 
from the end of a loaf of bread, cut off in slices one-fourth of an 
inch thick and butter. Pour over it a goodly layer of white of 
egg and celery, layer of mayonnaise, then a layer of the yolk of 
egg put through a sieve, and over all another slice bread, press- 
ing the whole together gently. With a sharp knife cut the crust, 
leaving the sandwiches perfectly square. Cover a meat plate 
with lettuce leaves, put sandwiches on, then cover with damp- 
ened lettuce leaves and stand aside for twenty minutes. 



THE EPICUREAN. ' 55 

• _ 



TURNIP GREENS. 

Wash in about four watters and pick over thoroughly. Have 
a pot of boihng water with a piece of bacon, let the bacon cook 
for half an hour before you put your greens in, cook slowly for 
three hours, cook thoroughly and there will be no danger of it 
making you sick. Corn dodgers for greens: One quart of 
corn meal, one tablespoon of salt, scald the meal well and then 
make out in balls and drop down in the greens and cook an 
hour and serve wath the greens. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash the potatoes and cut off the ends, and put in the stove 
to bake until soft. When the potatoes first come in if you will 
grease them when they get thoroughly heated it will make them 
so much better. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Soak the beans for three or four hours. You • can put them 
in w^ater over night, then put a piece of bacon in boiling water 
and cook for half an hour, then put your beans in and cook un- 
til well done. Then put in a bowl or pan and bake for an hour. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Three large sweet potatoes will make a nice dish. Peel the 
potatoes, then put on the stove to boil, boil thorodghly done, 
drain off the water, mash well, sweeten to taste, tablespoon 
butter, mix together, j)ut in a round pan or a bowl, smooth and 
put a lump of butter on top, brown a light brown, 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

Take nice large peppers, cut open,make a dressing of chicken, 
bread crumbs, a little onion, season very highly with pepper 
and salt. Take chicken that has been cooked, chopped fine, and 
then put the mixture and fill the pepper, put in the stove to get 
thoroughly heated and brown. 

CREAM IRISH POTAEOES. 

Take some Irish potatoes, peel and cut into dice shapes, boil 
till done. Make a cream gravy of milk, butter and a little flour, 
season with salt and pepper and pour over the potatoes. 

BOILED CABBAGE. 

Wash your cabbage well and cut in quarters, have the water 
boiling hot with a piece of bacon. Put the cabbage in and boil 
for about three hours, and to prevent it from smelling put in a 
little soda. 



56 * THE EPICUREAN. 



Preserves* 



To prevent preserves from sugaring, add a little tartaric acid 
when cooking. 

Stone jars are the best for preserves and in case of ferment- 
ing heat them over again and cover with a wax cloth. 

Put up all fruits and vegetables in glass or stone jars. Al- 
ways, if possible, get cider vine^^ar for pickles, dilute with salt 
water. Never let your pickles freeze. 

To preserve strawberries in their natural state: One quart 
berries, one and a quarter pounds of sugar. Select ripe, fresh 
and sound strawberries, put the berries in glass jars, a layer of 
fruit and a layer of sugar, heat and seal. Pack jars (top down 
with sand.) 

QUINCE PRESERVES. 

One pound fruit, one pound sugar. After preparing the fruit, 
boil in clear water until tender, make a rich syrup, adding water 
sufficiently to cover the fruit. They require some time to cook) 

DAMSON PRESERVES. 

One pound fruit, one pound sugar. With a penknife make a 
long slit in each damson, and place in the sun until each seed 
comes out readily, boil until done in a thick syrup. Greengage 
and other plums made by the same receipt. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Take off the peelings and skin, cut the peel and boil until 
tender; make a rich syrup, put in the oranges and tender peel 
and boil two hours. 

CANDIED FRUIT. 

One teacup water, one pound sugar. Boil peaches, plums, 
apricots, in a thick syrup made with water and sugar, until 
tender. Don't let them remain in the syrup longer than two 
days, take out and drain. Sprinkle sugar on each piece and 
dry in the sun. 

BLACKBERRY JELLY. 

Squeeze the juice from the berries, strain and add equal 
quantity of sugar, boil for thirty minutes. Pour in glasses and 
cover with paper dipped in brandy; tie tightly. 



THE EPICUREAN. 



PEACH MARMALADE. 



One pound fruit, three-quarter pound sugar, one egg, (white.) 
Mash fine thoroughly ripe peaches, clearify sugar with the 
egg, add the fruit and stir constantly until done. 



PEACH PRESERVES. 



One pound Heath peaches, one pound sugar. Pare and halve 
peaches, make into a syrup and skim, scald the peaches in hot 
water to preserve the light color; make a rich syrup of the 
sugar, drop in the fruit and cook until soft. Seal. 



PEAR PRESERVES. 



One pound fruit, one pound sugar. Scald the fruit until 
tender, boil the syrup and put in the fruit. Seal securely 

TOMATO BUTTER. 

Five quarts tomatoes, five quarts of apples, six pounds sugar, 
two tablespoons ground cloves, three tablespoons cinnamon. 
Stew the tomatoes and apples separately, mix well, put in a 
kettle and add the sugar, cloves and cinnamon. 

BLACKBERRY PRESERVES. 

Two quarts of berries, one quart cooked apples, two quarts 
sugar. Boil twenty minutes. 

DEWBERRY JAM. 

One pound fruit, quarter pound sugar. Put a small quantity 
of water in a preserving pan, add the fruit, boil and stir con- 
stantly. When the fruit has boiled an hour and simmer one 
half an hour longer. In this way the jam is superior in flavor 
and color. 

RASPBERRY JAM. 

Use raspberries instead of dewberries, and make same as 
above. 

WATERMELON CITRON PRESERVES. 

Select sound fruit, not to ripe and cut into any shapes you 
like; to every pound of fruit allow one pound of sugar; put 
on to cook in water, until it is quite clear, draw and discard the 
water; make of the weighed sugar a rich syrup; add three large 
lemons and flavor with ginger; add the citron and cook fifteen 
minutes, fill the jar, pour over the hot syrup and seal. 

APPLE PRESERVES. 

Pare and core and allow to one pound of apples, half pound 



58 THE EPICUREAN. 



quinces, one pound sugar, one lemon; scald the fruit until soft, 
in clear water and keep them over night; make a ricli syrup, 
then add the apples, quinces and lemons, cooking until clear; 
take out and boil the syrup until thick. Then seal. 

LEMON PRESERVES. 

Put the peel in boiling water, cook until quite tender and then 
put into a rich syrup and boil some minutes, pour over the sy- 
rup and when cold will be jellied. 

PINE APPLE PRESERVES. 

Parboil the fruit, then cut into slices ond take out the core, 
otherwise they will ferment, put one pound of sugar, to one 
pound of fruit and let remain over night to extract the juice, 
boil until done, and put up in glass jars. 

PLUM PRESERNES. 

One pound of sugar to one pound of fruit. Stone some of the 
fruit but not all, let stand over night and cook until done. 

CHERRY PRESERVES. 

One pound of sugar to one pound of fruit, cook well and then 
seal. 

JELLY. 

For jelly select ripe fruit. It should be heated to more easily 
extract the juice. Strain tirst through a wire seive to crush 
the fruit, then through a flannel bag kept for the purpose. 
Strain twice to make it clear. Jelly should not boil longer than 
fifteen or twenty minutes. Pill the jelly glasses and set in the 
sun to congeal, cover with a paper dipped in alcohol and confine 
the top paper with a rubber band. If mould accumulates lift it 
off and it will not return. Corn starch added to the sugar will 
make it clear, two teaspoonf uls to three pints of juice. A tea- 
spoon of sugar put on top of the jelly glass will prevent mould. 

PLUM JELLY. 

One pint of juice, one pint sugar, boil thirty minutes, put 
in jelly glasses and put out in the sun for about four or live 
hours. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Make the same way, you may have to boil it a little longer. 

PEAR PRESERVES. 

Peel your pears and drop them in cold water, then put on your 



THE EPICUREAN. 59 



sugar, a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit, just cover your su- 
gar with water, put on the stove and let it boil for some time 
and then beat up white of an egg, and put in the syrup, it makes 
it clear and then skim, then put your fruit in and cook, until a 
pretty red and the syrup is thick, put away in jars and seal up 
tight. 

PEACH PRESERVES. 

Peach preserves are made the same way, only when the 
peaches are nearly done take out and put on a dish and put them 
in the sun for about an hour, and let the syrup cook, put back 
the peaches and cook until done. 



Vegetables* 

ASPARAGUS. 

Scrape the roots, tie in small bunches and boil in water with 
a little salt. Let the asparagus lay in water about fifteen min- 
utes before cooking. Toast some nice slices of bread, lay the 
asparagus on the toast and make a cream dressing of some milk, 
butter, salt and pepper; thicken with a little flour. Garnish the 
dish with parsley. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Boil in water with a teaspoon of salt, and add very little sugar 
when young; boil fifteen minutes; drain them and season with 
butter and cream; pepper and salt to taste. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil in water for one hour, then add two cups of milk and boil 
gently one hour longer. Put in a deep dish and turn over it 
drawn butter. 

BAKED SV^EET POTATOES. 

Boil or steam sweet potatoes; peel and slice them and place a 
layer of potatoes in a baking dish; sprinkle sugar and butter, 
then another layer of potatoes and keep on until you have the 
disV full, put some sugar on top and a lump of butter; put one 
and one-half cups of hot w^ater and put in the stove to cook. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Select round tomatoes of equal size, peel and scoop from the 
stem end a part of" the center. Place them on ice until ready to 
serve. Then fill them with celery, cut fine, and mixed with 



()0 THE EPICUREAN. 



mayonnaise. Let it rise above the top of the tomato. Put a 
httle mayonnaise on small lettuce leaves, and place a stuffed 
tomato on the dressing in the center of each leaf. Arrange 
them in a circle on a flat dish. Tomatoes may be stuffed in the 
same with chopped veal, celery and veal, or chicken, celery and 
sweetbread, or chopped birds, boiled eggs and shredded 
lettuce. 

TOMATOES AND EGGS. 

Prepare the tomatoes as above; partly fill them with mayon- 
naise and press into each one the half of a hard-boiled egg, 
letting the rounded top rise a little above the tomato; serve on 
lettuce. 



Soup* 



NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

Take two eggs a little salt, beat thoroughly and add flour 
enough to mould, roll thin, sprinkle the top with flour, and be- 
ginning at one edge roll in a long roll, cut in fine strips, sprinkle 
flour on each, shake it off again and it will straighten the noodles 
out. Lay on the pie board to dry. They are then ready for 
soup. Put in and boil for twenty minutes. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Mix three pints each of milk and the liquor. Half pound but- 
ter, crackers or soda biscuit rolled fine should be added with a 
pint of oysters chopped fine. When the milk and water come 
to a boil, let it boil until the flavor of the oysters is given to the 
soup and the crackers are well swelled. Then add salt and 
pepper to taste. 

MOCK OYSTER SOUP. 

Take one can of tomatoes, put in a pinch of soda, cook down 
to a mush. Put in a separate vessel one quart of milk, let come 
to boil and then mix the two, season to taste. Serve at once. 

LOUISIANA GUMBO. 

Take one chicken and cut into pieces, roll each piece in flour 
and fry brown in lard, as for the table. When done lift out of 
the frying pan with a fork into a kettle and cover the chicken 
with boiling water, adding a small red pepper. In the mean- 
time have ready two quarts of okra sliced thin and one onion. 
Put the okra in the frying pan and cook until tender, turning 



THE EPICUREAN. 61 



and Stirring constantly to prevent burning. Wlien done pour 
into the kettle with the chicken, adding more water if neces- 
sary. Boil all together an hour stirring frequently. It is bet- 
ter to set the kettle on the top of the stove and boil slowly, as 
the gumbo burns easily. Season highly with salt and pepper. 
It should be quite thick when done. Serve a spoonful of' hot 
boiled rice in each soup plate. 

MOCK OYSTERS. 

One pint stewed tomatoes into which stir small spoonful soda 
until it ceases to foam, three pints milk thickened with two ta- 
blespoons corn starch, one tablesoon butter, add salt and pep- 
per to taste, mix well, let boil and serve. 

Season with salt, white pepper and a dash of cheyenne. 
Boil about five minutes, then serve very hot with crackers, 
which have been browned in the oven. 

POTOTO SOUP. 

Six large potatoes, peared and sliced fine, put into a kettle 
with a quart of water. When done beat up an egg into which 
put one pint of milk and one teaspoonful of flour, add two po- 
tatoes; lastly, one tablespoon of butter. Boil ten minutes and 
serve hot. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

In boiling chicken for salad, the broth may be used for soup. 
To this add one can of tomatoes, one thinly sliced onion. Boil 
twenty minutes and season with salt, pepper and two well 
beaten eggs. 

CHEAP SOUP. 

Take the bones and trimmings of your stake and put on to 
boil. Then put in a few potatoes, one can of tomatoes, one 
onion, one cup of rice. Season with salt pepper and butter. 

MEATLESS TOMATO SOUP. 

One quart of water, one of tomatoes; stew until soft; add a 
teaspoonful of soda, allow to foam and add salt, pepper and 
quart of boiling milk, a little rolled cracker and butter. Boil a 
few minutes and serve. 

POTATO SOUP. 

To one gallon of water, add a lump of butter the size of 
an egg, six large potatoes chopped fine, one tablespoon of 
flour, one teacup of rice. Work butter and flour together. 



62 THE EPICUREAN. 



and add one teacup of sweet cream, just before taking from 
the fire. Boil one hour. 

CORN SOUP. 

Take of beef or mutton one pint, one can of corn, one 
stick of celery cut up in dice and tie in a 
thin woolen cloth. Let this mixture boil for half an hour, 
taking care that it does not burn. Heat slowly by a quart 
of milk, from which half a cup has been unused and in tliis cold 
milk wet one tablespoonf ul of corn-starch. Add slowly to the 
warm milk and stir until it thickens. Then add the stock and 
corn. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

One soup bone, boiled to rags, then chop fine, one gallon of 
water, one onion, a few cloves and allspice, salt and pepper and 
a httle parsley. Just before serving add one pint claret. In 
tureen have bard boiled eegs chopped fine and few slices of 
lemon— if too thin thicken with little flour. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

One quart of boiling water, one quart of rich milk, stir in one 
teacup rolled cracker crumbs, season with pepper and salt to 
taste. When this comes to a boil add one quart fresh oysters, 
stir well to prevent scorching, then add butter the size of an 
egg, let it come to a boil, dish up and serve. 

SWISS POTATO SOUP. 

Six large potatoes pared and sliced, three small turnips pared 
and sliced, five pints water. Boil five or six hours until per- 
fectly dissolved and of the consistency of pea soup. If it boils 
away too fast add a little boiling water, when thick enough add 
butter, pepper and salt, a piece of pork or veal and a small onion 
may be added to vary the soup if desired. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One pint tomatoes canned or four large raw ones cut fine, add 
one quart boiling water and let them come to a boil, then add 
one teaspoon soda, when it will foam, immediately add one pint 
sweet milk, with salt, pepper and plenty of butter. When this 
boils add eight small crackers rolled fine and serve. This is 
equal to oyster soup. 

CELERY SOUP. 

One shank of beef, one large bunch celery, one cup rich cream, 
make a good broth of beef shank, strain off the grease and 



THE EPICUREAN. 63 



thicken the broth with httle flour and water, cut into small 
pieces the celery, boil them in the soup until tender, add the 
cream and salt and pepper to taste. 



Cooking for the Sick. 



MILK PUNCH. 



Sweeten a glass of rich cream; add two tablespoons of 
brandy and grate over it a little nutmeg. 



PANADA. 



Take some light bread or fresh crackers, sprinkle over them 
a little sugar and nutmeg, pour over boiling water, add a 
little salt and season with wine. 



POTATO SOUP, 



Make of very thin slices of Irish potato, boil in water until 
thoroughly tender; then drain off the water and add a little 
milk, a sprinkle of flour, and a small lump of butter. Very 
delicate and palatable. 



BEEF TEA. 



Take a slice of beef as if for steak, put it on a hot broiler 
until the color is dimmed on either side, remove from the 
fire, cut into small sized pieces and press through a lemon 
squeezer, add a pinch of salt, and a little lemon juice. 

MUSTARD PLASTERS. 

If molasses is used to mix a mustard plaster it will remain 
more flexible and less dry than when mixed with water, vine- 
gar is also good. Lay on thin muslin over the plaster, which 
prevents blistering 

TOMATO BISQUE. 

Into two quarts of any kind of soup stock put one quart of 
ripe tomatoes, boil up ten minutes, strain through a fine 
strainer, replace in the kettle or stew pan and add one quart of 
cream or rich milk, and bring to a boil, then add a large table- 
spoonful of corn starch well smoothed in milk, stir until smooth 
and creamy, and just before serving, add half a teaspoonf ul of 
soda, season to taste, serve with large cackers that have been 
split and browned in the oven. Serve one on each plate. 



H4 THE EPICUREAN. 



BEAN SOUP. 

Boil a pint of beans 'till tender, drain and mash or put 
through a fine colander, add two quarts of water, a bit of salt 
pork, an onion chopped fine, one cup of chopped cabbage, a 
small carrot cut fine, a little celery, and one potato minced, 
cook an hour and serve. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Chop fine two turnips, two carrots, four potatoes, one onion, 
and a little celery or parsley. Let it boil three hours in three 
quarts of water, strain through a course sieve and replace on 
fire. Add a large tablespoonful of butter and half a cup of 
cracker crumbs, let it boil up and serve at once. 

TURTLE BEAN SOUP. 

One quart of black beans, soak over night. Put them in a 
kettle with a gallon of cold water, boil slowly until well done, 
rub through a colander and return to the kettle, season with 
salt and a little thyme, slice hard boiled eggs and drop into the 
soup, add butter and serve hot. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Put to cook in a porcelain stew pan one can of tomatoes, one 
pint of hot water, a tables^Doonf ul of sugar, a teaspoonf ul of salt, 
pepper and six whole cloves. When boiUng add one tablespoon- 
ful of butter, thicken onions and butter with one tablespoonful 
of cornstarch. When all have boiled up together, strain and 
serve with croutons. 

CROUTONS FOR SOUP. 

Cut slices of bread into one-half inch squares, fry brown in 
hot butter, sprinkle with salt and serve in a deep dish. What- 
ever you fry, have the butter or fat smoking hot to begin with. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

To three pints of milk just at the boihng point add two table- 
spoonfuls of cracker crumbs, one pint of tomatoes into which 
has been stirred half a teaspoonf ul of soda, butter the size of an 
egg, salt to taste. When all comes to a boil, serve at once. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

To three pounds of beef add four quarts of cold water, place 
over the fire and let it come to a boil slowly. Let it simmer for 
two hours. When the liquid should have been reduced to 
about half the original quantity, remove the meat and add one 



THE EPICUREAN. Go 



quart of tomatoes, let them stew slowly for forty-live minutes. 
Salt and season to taste. Strain and serve piping hot. 

PEA SOUP WITH TOMATOES. 

This may be made with either split or green peas., as per 
recipes just given by adding a quart of meaty tomatoes, and 
letting all come to a good boil before straining. 



Summer Salads* 



BEET SALAD. 



Bed on torn lettuce, red beets cut into cubes. Over this pour 
a spoonful of mayonnaise and place on top a small square of 
cottage cheese. Serve with wafers. 



STRAWBERRY SALAD. 

Choose the heart leaves of head lettuce., heap a few straw- 
berries on each and dust them lightly with powdered sugar; lay 
a teaspoonf ul of mayonnaise on each portion and serve cut lemon 
with it; delicious for lunch. 

ORANGE SALAD. 

For six persons four rather acid oranges. . Slice them very 
thin, cutting down the sides instead of across, and sprinkle very 
sparingly with powdered sugar. Mix one tablespoonful of 
sherry with one of yellow chartreuse, and one of lemon juice. 
Pour over fruit, set on ice an hour before serving, and use be- 
fore a game course. 

NARRAGi\NSETT SALAD. 

Take equal parts of hickory nuts, walnuts, and almonds, 
blanching the latter, and throwing the walnut meats for ten 
minutes in water, in which onions are boiling. Add tiny bits 
of celery, and pour over a good cream salad dressing. Put a bit 
of sweet, whipped cream on top and garnish with round slices 
cut from a long radish. Do not peel, as dainty, pink rim adds 
much to the appearance. 

CELERY AND WALNUT SALAD. 

Mix with the celery, cut into small pieces one-third the 
quantity of English walnut meat broken in two, and enough 
mayonnaise to well moisten it. Garnish with lettuce. 



THE EPICUREAN. 



ORANGE SALAD. 

Use for this salad sour oranges; if these cannot be obtained, 
strain over sweet oranges after they are sUced a Uttle lemon 
juice. Cut the oranges in thick slices, remove the seeds care- 
fully, arrange them in rows and turn over them a dressing made 
of one tablespoonful of lemon juice to three of oil, with salt and 
cayenne pepper, paprica to taste. Serve with game. 

Grape fruit may be used the same way, and walnut meats 
used with either. 

Pies. 

CHESS PIE. 

Two eggs, one-third cup sugar, one-half cup of butter. Gream 
all together and bake with one crust, using white of one egg for 
frosting. 

DELICATE PIE. 

Whites of two eggs, four tablespoonfuls of cream, one large 
spoonful of flour, one cup of sugar, one cup of cold water, flavor 
with lemon. Line a pie plate with pastry, pour in the mixture 
and bake at once. 

MOCK LEMON PIE. ' 

One egg. a heaping tablespoonful of flour, one cup of sugar, 
one tablespoonful of vinegar, one cup of cold water, grated rind 
of one lemon. Bake with crust, using whites of an egg for 
frosting. 

APPLE PIE. 

Stew green or ripe apples, when you have pared and cored 
them, mash to a smooth paste, sweeten to taste and while hot 
stir in one teaspoon butter for each pie, season with nutmeg. 
When cold fill your crust, and either cover your crust with 
strips or bake plain. 

MOCK MINCE PIE. 

One egg, three or four large crackers, one-half cup molasses, 
one-half cup sugar, one-half cup vinegar, one-half cup strong 
tea, one cup chopped raisins, small piece butter, spice and salt. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Line dish with good crust and fill with ripe cherries, sprinkle 
little sugar, cover and bake. Eat cold with white sugar sifted 
on top. 



THE EPICUREAN. 



CREAM PIE. 

Pour one pint of cream on one and one-half cups powdered 
sugar, let stand until the whites of three eggs have been beaten 
to a stiff froth, add this to the cream and beat thoroughly, grate 
a little nutmeg over the mixture and bake in two pies without 
upper crusts. 

LEMON TARTS. 

Mix well together the jaice and grated rind of two lemons two 
cups sugar, two eggs and crumbs of sponge cake. Beat all to- 
gether until smooth, put into twelve patty pans lined with puff 
paste and bake until crust is done. 

JELLY PIE. 

Four egg, one cup sugar, one cup jelly, one tablespoon butter. 
Beat all together. Make a rich pie crust, bake with bottom 
crust. This makes two pies. 

PEAR PIE. 

Peel and slice six medium sized, round i)ears, put in vessel 
with three ounces powdered sugar, put this over a lined plate 
and proceed the same as for mince pie. 

BLACKBERRY PIE, 

To be prepared the same as for strawberry pie. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

Prepare and proceed the same as for custard, pies and before 
putting in stove spread grated cocoanut. 

LEMON PIE. 

Six eggs, leave out the whites of four, two cup sugar, half 
cup butter, lemon juice to taste, beat the eggs well, add the 
sugar, beat until light, add the butter and spread on a crust to 
bake. When cooked, spread over the top a meringue made of 
the whites of four eggs, two spoons sugar. Return to stove 
and brown. 

SLICED APPLE PIE. 

Make rich crust and cover with a thin layer, the pie pan, slice 
thinly the cored apples, without peeling, spread over the apples 
sugar butter and nutmeg, let there be alternate layers until the 
pie pan is sufficiently full, let the sugar and butter be last and 
brown without crust. 



()K THE EPICUREAN. 



GRAHAM GEMS. 

One quart Graham flour, three teaspoons baking powder, two 
eggs beaten light, butter the size of an egg, melted, one table- 
spoon brown sugar, a little salt and milk enough to make a 
batter. 

MOLASSES PIE. 

One teacup molasses, one teacup sugar, four eggs, four table- 
spoons butter, two tablespoons vinegar, little grated nutmeg, 
enough for pies. 

SWEET POTATO PIES. 

Boil the sweet potatoes thoroughly done, mash well; two large 
potatoes will make two large pies, two eggs and s^weeten to 
taste, and thin out with sweet milk, lump of butter; make a rich 
pastry, put top of pastry, beat up the whites of three eggs and 
a little sugar; spices to taste. 

PUMPKIN PIKS. 

Stew and mash a quarter of a small pumpkin, add tw^o table- 
spoons butter, one cup of cream or milk, four eggs, yolks 
well beaten, spice with nutmeg and sweeten to taste, half 
cup good brandy. Mix and add white of the eggs frothed, and 
the pie is ready for use. 

IRISH POTATO PIES. 

Grate your potatoes, beat up two eggs, a little sweet milk and 
sweeten to taste, put some nutmeg or other spices if desired, 
put in rich pastry. 

PIE CRUST. 

Four cups of flour, two cups of lard and butter mixed, one 
cup of ice water, one pinch of salt. This is sufficient for four 
pies. 

SHOO FLY PIES. 

Part first — One cup each of boiling water and molasses, one 
and a half teaspoon soda, one and a half teacup of vinegar. 
Part second — Two cups of flour, two-third cup of sugar, one 
quarter cup of butter. Mix or rub part second together well, 
then cover the bottom crust with it, pour on the first part and 
cover with part second and bake. 

CHESS CAKES. 

One cup of sugar, half a cup butter, beaten as for cake, three 
eggs, reserve the whites of two for frosting, one cup seeded 
raisins chopped fine, put a little flour. Bake in pastry shells. 



THE EPICUREAN. 09 



MINCED MEAT. 

Two pounds fresh beef, boiled, and when cold, chop fine. One 
pound beef suet, clear of strings, and minced. Five pounds 
apples, pared and chopped. One pound raisins, washed and 
picked. Two pounds currents. Three fourth pound citron, cut 
up fine. One and one-half teaspoonful cinnamon. One grated 
nutmeg. Ond tablespoonful ground cloves allspice. Two table- 
spoonful ground mace. One pound pecans chopped fine. One 
tablespoonful of fine salt. Two and one-half pounds sugar, white 
or brown. One quart of cherry. One pint of brandy. 

MINCED MEAT PIES. 

Two cups minced meat. Add to this some more apples and 
sugar and more brandy. Make a rich pastery, cover bottom 
and top. This will make three good pies; add a little butter. 



Cakes* 



CHOCOLATE. • 

Five eggs, two and one-half cups fiour, two cups sugar, one 
cup butter, scant teaspoon soda in cup of sour milk, one-half 
cake (quarter pound) baker's chocolate melted. 

Filling — One-half cake chocolate, three eggs lightly beaten, 
two pints of sugar with enough water to moisten, stir in eggs 
and chocolate, cook thick. Season with vanilla. Spread when 
cool. 

GOOD GINGERBREAD. 

One pint of molasses, one pint sugar, one teacup of butter or 
lard, one teacup sour milk, two teaspoons soda, two of ginger, 
three eggs, flour to make a batter stiff as pound cake. Either 
raisins or currents are good in this cake. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup of molasses, half a cup of sugar, half cup of butter 
and lard mixed, two teaspoon of ginger, one teaspoon of soda, 
dissolved in one half cup of warm water, a little salt, flour 
enough to mix stiff, roll thin and bake in a quick oven. 

HARTFORD ELECTION CAKE. 

One and one-half cups butter, two cups sugar, one and one- 
half pints of flour, three eggs, one and one-half teaspoons baking 
powder, two cups of stoned raisins, one cup currents, one-half 



THE EPICUREAN. 



cup chopped citron, one-half cup chopped lemon peel, one-half 
cup chopped almonds, twenty drops extract of bitter almonds, 
twenty drops vanilla, one cup milk. Rub the butter and sugar 
to a light cream; add the eggs and beat a few minutes. Then 
stir in the flour and baking powder, sifted together. Add the 
raisins, citron, currents, extract of almond and milk. Mix to a 
batter, place paper in a tin and bake for an hour and a half in a 
moderate oven. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, w^hites of 
eight eggs, half a wine-glass of white wine, two teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, one-fourth pound citron cut tine, one-half pound 
almonds, one teacup desicated cocoanut. Beat the butter to a 
cream and gradually beat in the sugar, and then the wine. 
Beat the eggs to a stiff froth and stir this into the butter and 
sugar, add flour which is thoroughly mixed with the baking 
powder, and lastly the fruit. Bake in two loaves for forty min- 
utes in a moderate oven. 



COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, two eggs well beaten, one cup butter, two- 
thirds cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda. Mix very stiff and 
bake in a quick oven. Flavor with vanilla, lemon or sprinkle 
with cocoanut. 

MY MOTHER'S ENGLISH FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound sugar, one pound butter, one pound flour, twelve 
eggs, two pounds raisins, two pounds currants, one-fourth 
pound candied citron, one-fourth pound candied lemon peel, 
wineglass brandy, one teaspoon allsx^ice, one-half teaspoon 
cloves, one whole nutmeg. This quantity will make one large 
cake or two small ones. CreS^m the butter then add sugar, 
beat thoroughly, then add the yolks of eggs, next a little flour, 
then part of the whites of eggs well beaten, adding whites and 
flour until all are in. Mix the fruit and spices all together. Add 
the brandy last. It will be very stiff but will come out al right. 

FIG CAKE. 

Three-fourths pound fresh figs chopped, one-half cup sugar, 
one cup boiling water. Simmer to a jelly, make a layer of icing 
and then figs between the layers. 

LEMON PASTE. 

Six eggs, one pound sugar, the juice of three large lemmons 
and rinds of two, one-fourth pound of butter. Beat yolks, sugar 



THE EPICUREAN. 71 



juice, and rind together, beat whites and add lastly. Butter, 
mix well and boil in a double vessel constantly stirring. When 
of the consistency of honey take off. When cold spread be- 
tween the layers of cake and ice. 



LEP KUCHEN. 

Ten eggs^ — leave out two whites — one and one-half cup sugar, 
one and one-half cakes chocolate, one and one-half cups raisins, 
one and one-half cups currants, one cupcitron, orie cup chopped 
nuts, four cups flour, one and one-half teaspoons baking pow- 
der, one teaspoon each cloves, alspice, cinnamon, one cup of 
molasses, one tablespoon of whiskey. 

CHOCOLATE TARTARS. 

Three-fourths cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, one 
teaspoon of cinnamon, one-half teaspoon cloves, nutmeg, four 
eggs, one-half cup milk, one cup chocolate, one teaspoon yeast- 
powder, two cups flour, two teaspoons vanilla. 

WHITE LOAF CAKE. 

Twelve eggs, two cups sugar, three-fourths cup butter (good 
measure) two-thirds cup milk, four cups flour, two teaspoons 
yeast powder, flavor to taste, cream butter and sugar, add whites 
one at a time, beat IJioroughly, add milk, then flour, beat well, 
then add yeast powder. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One egg, one scant cup sugar, one cup milk, two tablespoons 
melted butter, a little salt, nutmeg, cinnamon, flour to roll out. 

bride's cake. 

The whites of twenty one eggs, four and a half cups of sugar, 
sifted three times, seven cups of flour sifted five times, (full 
measure) four teaspoons of yeast powder, two cups of butter, 
(scant measure) one and one half cups of sweet milk, two tea- 
spoons of lemon extract. After the butter is well creamed, add 
the sifted sugar and beat ten minutes, next add the milk grad- 
ually then the eggs well beaten, and then the flour, with the 
last cup of flour put in the yeast powder. 

WHITE CAKE. 

The whites of ten eggs, two cups of sugar, three and a half 
cups of flour, one cup of butter, one cup of milk, two teaspoons 
of yeast powders. 



THE EPICUREAN. 



WHITE CAKE. 

The whites of fourteen eggs, beaten thoroughly, three cups 
of sugar sifted three times, five cups of flour (scant measure) 
sifted five times, three teaspoon of yeast powder, one and one- 
half cups of butter, one and one-half teaspoons lemon extract, 
one and one-half teaspoons of lemon extract, one and one half 
cups of sweet milk, add the sugar and beat ten minutes, then 
add gradually the milk, then the eggs, and flour last. 

JEFF DAVIS PUDDING. 

Three cups of flour, one cup of molasses, one cup of beef 
suet, spice to taste or a little ginger, put in one half gallon 
bucket, boil three or four hours, serve hot with sauce. 

SAUCE. 

Two cups of best New Orleans sugar, one cup of butter, one 
white of egg, creamed together, a little wine or whiskey or nut 
meg. 

WALNUT CAKE. 

The whites of six eggs, three cups of sugar, three spoons of 
corn starch, chop the kernels of the walnuts and mix in the 
sugar, etc. Grease the pans with butter and drop inby spoons- 
ful to brown. 

PHILADELPHIA CAKE. 

The whites of eight eggs, 3-4 of a cup of butter, two cups of 
white sugar, two cups of sweet milk, one cup of corn starch, 
two cups of flour, two teaspoonsful of baking powder. 

ENGLISH WALNUT CAKE. 

Six eggs, well beaten, one half cup of butter, well creamed, 
one half cup of sweet milk, one and one-half cup of sugar, two 
cnps of flour, well sifted, two teaspoons of baking powder, mix 
the cake as usual, add one and one fourth pounds of chopped 
walnuts, one-fourth pound of kernels, reserve for top. Bake 
and frost with boiled icing. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Ten white eggs, well beaten; one and one half tumblers of 
sugar, well beaten into the eggs, one heaping tumbler sifted 
flour, one teaspoonful cream of tartar sifted into the flour. 
Flavor with one-fourth of a lemon, bake quickly. 



THE EPICUREAN. 73 



CREAM CAKE. 



Two eggs, one cup sugar, one cup cream, two cups flour, one 
teaspoon of cream of tartar and half teaspoon of soda. 



DOUGHNUTS. 



One cup sugar, two eggs, two tablespoons melted butter, two- 
third cup milk, two even teaspoons of cream of tartar, one tea- 
spoon soda, a little salt and nutmeg, flour enough to roll. 



^^ELVET SPONGE. 



Pour eggs, two cups of sugar, two cups of flour, one cup of 
boiling water. Bake in a biscuit pan and then ice. 



COMPOSITION CAKE, 



Five cups of flour, two cups of butter, three cups of sugar, 
one cup of milk, five eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar; just as you please, cinnamon, nut- 



meg and cloves to taste. 



WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, half cup of butter, half cup of sweet milk, 
half cup of cornstarch, one cup of flour, whites of six eggs, a 
little vanilla, two teaspoonsf ul of baking powder. Bake in layers. 

FROSTING. 

Whites of five eggs, twenty tablespoonf ul of sifted sugar, 
beaten very light, a little vanilla, spread between the layers and 
outside of the cake. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Whites of eight eggs, cup of butter, two and a half cups of 
pulverized sugar, four cups of flour, one cup of sweet milk, two 
teaspoons of baking powder. Flavor. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Six eggs, tw^o cups of sugar, three cups of flour, two teaspoons 
baking powder. Flavor. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Three cups of flour, two cups of sugar, three quarter cup of 
sweet milk, whites of six eggs, half cup butter, one teaspoon of 
cream of tartar, half teaspoon soda. Flavor with lemon. 

CALIFORNIA CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of milk. 



74 THE EPICUREAN. 



two eggs, three teaspoon of baking powder, put in three' cups 
of sifted flour. Flavor and add fruit. This receipt makes two 
cakes. 

ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, four 
eggs, (whites,) one teaspoon cream of tartar, half teaspoon of 
soda. 

bride's cake. 

Whites of twenty eggs, one and a half pounds of flour, one 
pound granulated sugar, one quarter glass good whiskey, one 
pound butter, half a glass of wine, two teaspoons of baking 
powder. Delicious. 

PERFECTION CAKE. 

Three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of milk, three 
cups of flour, one cup of cornstarch, whites of twelve eggs, two 
teaspoons cream of tartar and one of soda. 

Jelly roll. 

Make a sponge cake of six eggs, two cups of sugar, three cups 
of flour, one cup boiling water. Flavor with lemon, add two 
teaspoons of baldng powder; the batter must be thinner than is 
necessary for pound cake. Place part of the batter (enough to 
cover the bottom,) in a long pan slightly greased. Bake in a 
moderately quick oven, until light brown. Spread a fresh cloth 
on the table and sprinkle with powdered sugar. Turn the cake 
out on the sugar, leaving the bottom up, spread with any good 
acid jelly and roll while hot. 

TEA CAKES. 

Three eggs, two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one tea- 
spoon of soda, dissolved in a half cup of buttermilk and two tea- 
spoons of cream of tartar. Flour sufficient to roll. Flavor to 
taste. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Six eggs, two cups sugar, one cup of boiling water, two and 
one-half cups flour into which is sifted one teaspoon of baking 
powder. For a small one, half the quantity of all the ingre- 
dients, except egg, of which you use tw^o. Makes a lovely cake 
for sauce. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Four eggs, one cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, 
one cup milk, one-half teaspoon baking powder. Beat whites 



THE EPICUREAN. 75 



and yolks of eggs to a stiff froth separately, cream butter and 
sugar, sift flour and baking powder, mix all together and bake 
in jelly tins. Put together with chocolate icing. 

RIBBON CAKE, 

White of four eggs, two cups sugar, one cup of butter, one 
cup sweet milk, four cups flour (rather scant), two teaspoons 
baking powder. After the above is thoroughly mixed take out 
one-third and add four tablespoons cinnamon, one cup currants 
and about one-eighth pound of citron cut fine. Bake in moder- 
ate oven. 

SURPRISE CAKE. 

One egg, one cup sugar, one tablespoon butter, one cup water, 
two cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one teaspoon 
flavoring. 

ANGELS' FOOD. 

Whites of twenty-two eggs, two cups flour, three cups sugar, 
tvv^o teaspoons cream of tartar, one teaspoon yeast powder, two 
teaspoons vanilla. Sift flour five times, put cream of tartar in 
whites and a pinch of salt. When cake is done cut in three 
layers. 

Filling — One pint sweet milk or cream, yolks of four eggs, 
two tablespoons corn starch, two tablespoons sugar. 

Take one-half cup milk and add sugar and corn starch with 
eggs well beaten; add this to the remainder of the milk. Put on 
in double vessel and cook until thick, stirring all the time — 
when done add butter the size of an egg and teaspoon vanilla, 
and put between layers and ice. 

ANGELS' FOOD. 

Whites of eleven eggs, one cup flour sifted five times, one- 
half cup sugar sifted twice, one teaspoon cream tartar, one- 
half teaspoon baking powder, one teaspoon vanilla. Bake in 
slow oven. 

CARAMEL CAKE. 

Whites of eight eggs, one-half cup butter, two cups sugar, 
three cups flour, one cup milk, two teaspoons yeast powder, 
cream, butter and sugar together. Add milk, then flour and 
whites of eggs last. Flavor to taste and bake in three layers. 

Filling — Three cups white sugar, one cup milk or cream. 

Put on the stove and let cook until thick, then take off and 
put one-half cup of butter and two teaspoonsful of caramel col- 
oring and one teaspoon vanilla and let get cold and spread on 
cake. 



76 THE EPICUREAN. 



TEA CAKE. 

One and one-half pints sugar, one pint butter, six eggs, four 
teaspoons ammonia or hartshorn, four teaspoons cream of tar- 
tar or two of soda, flour enough to make a stiff dough. The 
ammonia must be dissolved in hot water. Roll very thin, cut 
and sprinkle with granulated sugar or sugar and cinnamon. 
Bake in a very hot oven. Don't use both cream of tartar and 
ammonia. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One pint molasses, one-half teacup sugar, two tablespoons 
lard, two heaped teaspoons soda, use either ginger or mixed 
spices, flour enough to make into balls size of marbles, lay on 
greased pan and bake in a moderate oven. Lay the balls far 
enough apart to flatten if you had rather. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Four eggs — white only — two cups sugar, three cups flour, 
one cup sweet milk, one-half cup butter, two teaspoons baking 
powder. 

BABY RUTH CAKE. 

Whites of ten eggs, two cups sugar, one cup butter, three and 
one-half cups flour, one cup sweet milk, two teaspoons yeast 
powders. Cream the butter and sugar together — add the whites 
last. Stripe each layer with pink coloring, and put together 
with cream icing. 

TEA CAKES. 

Three cups of sugar, two cups of butter, one cup of cream, 
four eggs, one teaspoonf ul of soda, two teaspoonf uls of cream of 
tartar and season with mace and cinnamon. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Two cups powdered sugar, three-fourths cup of butter, four 
eggs, one-half cup milk, three tablespoons of baking powder 
and three cups flour. Bake in thin layers as for jelly cake, and 
spread between them, when cold, the following mixture: One- 
half pint milk, two small teaspoons cornstarch, one egg, 
one teaspoon vanilla extract, one-half cup sugar. Heat to 
boiling and then stir in the cornstarch wet with a little cold 
milk. Take out a little and mix gradually with beaten egg and 
sugar, return to the rest of the custard and boil, stirring con- 
stantly until quite thick; let it cool before you season and spread 
on the cake. Season the iceing also with vanilla. 



THE EPICUREAN. 77 



CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, three cups 
flour, whites of eight eggs, two teaspoons baking powder and 
one teaspoon of vanilla. 

Pilling — Boil two ounces of chocolate, one cup sugar, one-half 
cup milk and one teaspoon vanilla until thick, let cool and 
spread. 

LADY CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, three-fourths pound sifted flour, six 
ounces of butter, the whipped whites of eight eggs, flavor with 
bitter almond and bake in square, not very thin tins. Flavor 
the frosting with vanilla. The combination is very pleasant. 

COCOANUT COOKIES. 

Two well beaten eggs, one cup butter,one cup sugar, one-half 
cup milk, one teaspoon baking powder, one cup grated cocoanut. 
Use enough flour to roll. 

EGG KISSES. 

Whites of eight eggs, three cups sugar, one teaspoon vanilla. 
Beat all together until perfectly stiff. Bake on brown paper in 
slow oven. 

TEA CAKES. 

Three cups sugar, two cups butter, one cup cream, four eggs' 
one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream tartar. Season with 
mace and cinnamon. 

COOKIES. 

Three eggs, one cup lard, one cup sour milk, two cups sugar, 
one teaspoon soda and flavor with lemon. Add flour to kneed 
well. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One quart molasses, one pound brown sugar, three-fourths 
pound lard or lard and butter mixed, one tablespoon soda, two 
tablespoons ground cinnamon, two tablespoons ginger. Flour 
sufficient to make rather a stiff dough, roll very thin and bake. 

TEA CAKES. 

Two well beaten eggs, two cups sugar, one cup butter, two- 
thirds cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda. Mix very soft, flavor 
with vanilla or lemon and bake in a quick oven. 

•SPICE CAKE. 

Five eggs, two cups sugar, one cup butter, three cups flour, 
one cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, three teaspoons cinnamon. 



THE EPICUREAN. 



one teaspoons cloves, two teaspoons allspice one teaspoon grated 
nutmeg and one teaspoon ginger. 

RIBBON CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one and one-half cups of 
milk, three eggs, one and two-thirds cups flour, two teaspoons 
baking powder. To one- third of this add the following: One 
teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon cloves, one-half teaspoon 
allspice, one-half teaspoon nutmeg,one teaspoon black molasses, 
one-half cup chopped raisins and citron, one tablespoon grated 
chocolate. Bake in three layers. 

DRIED FRUIT CAKE. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one cup of black syrup, 
six eggs, one wineglass full of whiskey and wine, one tea- 
spoon of cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg and ginger, one cup of 
dryed apples, apricots peaches, prunes, raisins and currants, 
one half cup of citron, three cups of flour. 

FRENCH CRULLERS. 

Three eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, flour to thicken, three 
tablepoonsfulof milk, six tablespoonsfuU of melted butter, six 
tablespoonsful of sugar. Rub the butter, salt, and sngar to- 
gether, add the well beaten eggs and the milk and flour enough 
to roll out the dough. Roll half an inch thick, cut out with a 
very small cake cutter having a hole in the center and fry in 
hot lard. 

POUND CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, 3-4 pound of butter, 
and ten eggs. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Four eggs, one and one half cups of sugar, one half cup of 
butter, two and a half cup>s of flour, one half cup of sweet milk, 
one teaspoon of baking powder. Flavor to suit taste with 
vanilla. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

One cup of white sugar, one half cup of butter, two cups of 
flour, one half cup of cold water, live eggs and whites of four; 
tw^o teaspoons of baking powder, juice and rind of one orange. 
Bake in layers, make frosting of remaining whites. 



THE EPICUREAN. 



CUP CAKE. 

Five eggs, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, one of but- 
ter, one of milk, two teaspoons of baking powder, flavor to 
taste. 

COFFKE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, one cup of brown sugar, one half cup of 
molasses, one cup of strong coffee, two eggs, one teaspoon of 
baking powder, one teaspoon of cinnamon, one teaspoon of 
cloves, one cup of raisins or currants, five cups of sifted flour. 
Add the fruit last, sprinkle with a little of the flour. Bake 
about one hour. 

GERMAN PUFFS. 

Two cups of sweet milk, two cups of flour, three eggs and a 
little salt. 

MOLASSES PIES. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one teaspoon of butter. 
Cook together until it thickens. Let it cool and then stir in 
four well beaten eggs. Bake on a rich crust, flavor with spice 
and cinnamon. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One and one half cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, two 
eggs, one scant teaspoonf ul of melted lard, one half of a nut- 
meg, (grated,) one large teaspoon of cinnamon, one large tea- 
spoon of salt, two teaspoons of baking powder. Make batter 
stiffer than biscuit dough, fry in hot lard. 

CRISP COOKIES. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three eggs well beaten, 
one teaspoon of soda, two teaspoons cream of tartar, one tea- 
cup of milk, one teaspoon of nutmeg, one teaspoon of cinna- 
mon and flour enough to make a soft dough just stiff enough to 
roll out. Try a pint of flour to begin with, working in grad- 
ually, spread a little sweet milk over each and sprinkle with 
sugar. 

GINGER BREAD. 

One cup brown sugar, one cup black molasses. Two-thirds 
cup butter, one cup cold water, four cups flour, two teaspoon 
ginger, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon cinnamon. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup brown sugar, one cup molases, one-half cup butter, 



80 THE EPICUREAN. 



one-half cup lard, one-half cup water, one tablespoonful ginger, 
one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon nutmeg, 
one teaspoon cinnamon. 

CAKES. 

One egg, one-half cup sugar; four tablespoonsful butter, one 
cup sweet milk, one teaspoon of salt, two teaspoonsf ul cream of 
tartar, one teaspoonful soda, three cups flour. 

LEMON LAYER CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup of sweet 
milk, three eggs, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder . Bake in layers. 

JELLY FOR CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one egg, one teaspoon of butter, the rind and 
juice of one lemon. Boil together till thick. 

CREAM COOKIES. 

One egg, two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup 
of sour cream, one teaspoon of soda, a little salt and flour enough 
to make stiff. Use caraway seed for flavoring if you have it. 



Icing For Cake* 



BOILED FROSTING. 

One pint of sugar with enough water to dissolve it, let boil 
until it threads from a spoon. Beat the whites of two eggs 
stiff and pour the boiling sugar into it, beating all the time. Put 
in a pinch of cream tartar. 

ALMOND ICING. 

Three cups of sugar, one pound of almonds blanched and 
pounded to a paste, beat the whites of three eggs and stir into 
the sugar and almonds. Flavor with extract of rose. 

ice CREAM ICING. 

Three cups of sugar and enough water to cover the sugar, 
put on to boil, let boil until thick. Beat the whites of four eggs 
stiff; pour sugar syrup into eggs beating all the time, one-half 
teaspoon cream of tartar, one teaspoon of vanilla. 



THE EPICUREAN. 81 



CHOCOLATE ICING. 



Make boiled icing, melt a quarter of a pound of chocolate and 
pour into the egg and sugar, with a teaspoon of vanilla. 



CARAMEL FILLING. 



One and one-half cups of white sugar, one cup of fresh cream 
or milk. Put on stove, boil until thick. Burn one teaspoon of 
white sugar, put three tablespoons of water into burned sugar, 
and pour into milk and sugar. When done put one-half cup 
butter, one teaspoon vanilla, then spread on cake when cold. 



WHITE CAKE. 



Twelve eggs, two cups sugar, three-fourths cup butter (good 
measure), three-fourths cup milk,four cups flour, two teaspoons 
baking powder, flavor to taste. Cream, butter, and sugar, add 
whites one at a time, beat thoroughly, add milk, then flour. 
Beat well, then baking powder. 

DEVIL'S FOOD. 

Four eggs, two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup 
sour milk, one teaspoon soda dissolved in the milk, three-fourths 
cake bakers chocolate makes two thick layers, and put together 
with iceing. It is very nice to put fruit in. 

sallie's cake. 

Two eggs, the whites reserved for icing. One and one-fourth 
cups sugar, one-fourth cup butter, one cup sweet milk, two and 
one-half cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Six eggs, one and one-half cups sugar, one cup flour, one-half 
teaspoon cream tartar, a pinch of salt, and flavor to taste. Put 
in molds and bake in a moderate oven at once; will bake in 
twenty to forty minutes. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Five eggs, one and one-half cups sugar, one and one-half cups 
flour, one-half teaspoon cream tarter, pinch salt, flavor to taste. 

GOLD CAKE. 

Yolks of eight eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one- 
half cup sour milk, one and three-fourths cup flower, two tea- 
spoons baking powder, cream butter sugar. Thoroughly beat 



82 THE EPICUREAN. 



yolks to a very stiff froth, add milk then flour, flavor to taste. 
Bake in a slow oven. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup lard, one-half cup water, one tablespoon ginger, 
one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon. 

LAZY DOUGHNUTS. 
(Mrs. Owens.) 

One-half cup sugar, two eggs, one cup sour milk, six level 
teaspoons melted cottolene, one-half teaspoon soda. Stir as stiff 
as possible with flour. Drop from a teaspoon in hot cottolene, 
and fry brown. Dip spoon in cottolene after each time, and 
they will not stick to the spoon. 

CRULLERS. 
(Mrs. Parker.) 

Two cups sugar, six eggs, two tablespoons cottolene, three 
teaspoons baking powder, six cups flour. Mix, cut half an inch 
thick and drop into hot cottolene. When brown sprinkle with 
sugar. 



Punch* 



CLARET PUNCH. 

One quart of good claret, two quarts of water, half a dozen 
lemons, one pint Maderia or Sherry wine, half a pint of rum, 
half a pound sliced pineapple, sugar to taste. Make very cold 
with large lumps of ice. 

CHERRY CORDIAL. 

Take three pounds of Molella cherries, stone half and prick 
the rest, throw into a jar, adding the kernels of half slightly 
bruised, add one pound sugar, cover with brandy and let it 
stand a month. 

FRUIT DE LIMEADE. 

Fifteen gallons of water, two ounces tartar acid, four dozen 
lemons, one pint blood orange juice, one pint pineapple juice, 
one pint cherry juice, two dozen oranges, one bottle cherries 
Messina, sugar or sugar syrup to suit the taste. Take water, 
add acid and lemons and sugar, stir well, then add fruit juices. 



THE EPICUREAN. 83 



stir again, slice oranges and add them ; make in a large vessel, 
and as it is put in the bowl to be served, add a few Messina 
cherries and a can of pineapples. 

STRAWBERRY WINE. 

Three pounds of sugar to one gallon of juice, strain through a 
flannel and put away in a jug, cover with a muslin cloth and not 
to be opened until, spring. 

ORANGE CORDIAL 

Pare the thin yellow peel from a dozen oranges, steep it in a 
quart of alcohol or good whiskey for two weeks, then make a 
thick rich syrup of crushed sugar, v/hen cool add liquor to taste. 

TOM AND JERRY. 

Four eggs, six spoonful of granulated sugar, beaten thor- 
oughly together, six small wineglasses rum one pint of boiling 
water, stir the water into the mixture and turn back and forth 
between two hot pitchers, grate nutmeg and drink hot. 



Miscellaneous* 



Ointment to Soften the Hands.— One-half pound mutton 
tallow, one ounce camphor gum, one ounce glycerine, melted; 
when thoroughly mixed put away to cool. Rub on hands at 
night. 

P^'resh milk mixed with oatmeal is very beneficial to a sun- 
burned complexion. Many use buttermilk with success. Sul- 
phur mixed with fresh milk is also excellent for washing the skin. 

Parsley eaten with vinegar will remove the unpleasant effects 
of eating onions. 

Cold boiled potatoes used as soap will clean the hands and 
keep the skin smooth and soft. 

Straw mattings can be cleaned with coarse salt and water. 
Wipe dry. 

To Remove Fruit Stains. — Pour boiling water over the 
fresh stain before washing. 

For Cleaning Jewelry.— One teaspoonful of ammonio ap- 
plied with a rag will clean silver or gold jewelry. 



84 THE EPICUREAN. 



A teaspoonf ul of borax put in the last water in which clothes 
are rinsed will whiten them. Pound the borax so it will dis- 
solve easily. 

To Keep Cockroaches Away. — Scatter cucumber peelings 
around where they frequent. 

To prevent sea-sickness, put apiece of writing paper on your 
chest. 

To Preserve Eggs. — Pack in salt with ends down, and turn 
every few days. 

A few drops of ammonia will loosen the stoppers in jars or 
bottles. 

Pulverized borax sprinkled on shelves is a safeguard 
against ants. 

To Clean Carpets. -Scatter either salt, meal or tea leaves 
and sweep hard. 

Mildew. — Dip the stained cloth in buttermilk and lay in sun. 

Cure for Nose Bleed. — Take a pinch of powdered alum and 
snuff it up the nose or blow it through a quill. Another Cure. 
Put a small ball of cotton under the upper lip, pressing it up 
against the nose. It never fails. 

Cure for Toothache. — Fill the cavity with a mixture of 
salt and soda. 

To Wash Woolen Goods. — Use water beaten to a lather, 
with yolk of an egg instead of soap. 

For Sore Eyes. — Bathe repeatedly with tepid salt water. 
This will also strengthen the sight 

Earache. — A few drops of chloroform in a few drops of 
sweet oil, dropped in the ear is an instant relief for earache. 

Cure For Burns. — Seven or eight applications of whites of 
eggs sooth the pain and effectually excludes the burn — will re- 
move all pain. 

Grape Stain. — Put on the fresh stain some fresh cream and 
let stand. 



CREAM PECAN CANDY (MEXICAN.) 

Two cups of sugar, three fourths cups of sweet milk, cook 



THE EPICUREAN. 85 



until thick; take off stove and beat. Add one cup of pecans 
and beat until stiff. Pour into buttered dish. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Three cups of brown sugar, three fourths of a cup of water, 
butter the size of a walnut, a pinch of soda. Flavor to suit the 
taste. Cook until it hardens when dripping from spoon. Pour 
into buttered dish and as it cools mark into squares by dipping 
knife into cold water to prevent from sticking. 

LEMON CANDY. 

Three pounds of granulated sugar, two tablepoons of vinegar, 
one teaspoon of cream tartar, juice of four lemons. When 
done, add a spoon of cream and pull. 

CARAMEL CANDY. 

Three pounds of brown sugar, one half pound of Baker's 
chocolate, one pint of cream, a lump of butter, the size of an 
egg. Boil thirty minutes and pour in grease pan. Square off 
before cold. 

SUGAR TAFFY. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of water, one teaspoon of cream 
tartar, one teaspoon of baking powder, one teaspoon of butter. 
Cook until it hardens by testing in cold water. Then pour in 
buttered dish. Flavor to taste and pull. 

MOLASSES TAFFY. 

Three cups of molasses, one tablespoon of butter, one table- 
spoon of vinegar. When done add a teaspoonf ul of soda and 
stir until white. Pour into buttered dish and pull. 

CHOCOLATE TAFFY. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of water, one teaspoon of cream 
tartar, one teaspoon of yeast powder, one teaspoon of butter. 
When done, melt a little chocolate and add to it. Flavor with 
vanilla and pull. 

TUTTI FRUTTL 

Five cups of sugar, two cups of milk, boil until thick, takeoff 
the stove, add half cup of raisins, half a cup of currants, half a 
cup of pecans, three ligs chopped line, three dates, beat until 
stiff and white and put into a buttered dish. 



86 THE EPICUREAN. 



CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

Two cups of white sugar, half a cup of w^ater, half a cup corn- 
starch, cook, sugar and water three minutes, stirring constant- 
ly, stir in the cornstarch. Flavor with lemon, work into cone 
shapes, stick in a pin and dip into melted chocolate. Put on 
greased paper to cool. 

SUGAR TAFFY. 

Three cups of sugar, one cup of water, boil until it begins to 
rope, add half a cup of vinegar, tablespoon butter, and a pinch 
soda. Flavor with vanilla. 



A Word on Fruit 



The bountiful earth brings forth fruits in their season. They 
are wholesome, but should be eaten with the sauce of discretion. 
Apples is at the head of the list. It is more easily digested 
than any other fruit, but the skin should always be aiscarded, 
for it irritates the bowels. 

Fresh figs are good, but dried ones should always be carefully 
cooked. 

Grate the pineapple or cut it into tiny bits, for its fiber is 
tough and resists the juice in the stomach. 

The common banana is a deceptive thing and children should 
never be allowed to eat it raw. Baked bananas are highly 
praised. 

Never should the skin of any fruit be swallowed, the skin is 
an armor to the pulp. It is as unfit for food as a piece of 
chalk is. 



Suggestions to Housekeepers^ 

If you have only a little cream and a great need of butter, try 
churning in a glass jar; shake up and down; if it gets too thick 
add a little sweet milk. 

If you want to have chopped jelly for garnished dishes, re- 
member to chop or cut it with a knife which has been dipped in 
ice water, and have the jelly on paper which has also been 
dipped in water. 



THE EPICUREAN. 



Oatmeal water has a very softening effect on the skin, and 
many persons use this in preference to soft water. It is made 
as follows: Boil five ounces of oatmeal in one and one-half pints 
of water for about forty minutes, then strain off the liquid and 
use. 

When sifting flour for cake it is more convenient to sift it on 
a large sheet of paper, then into a bowl; especially when sifted 
several times. It can be quickly gathered up in the paper and 
turned into the sifter again. 

When you wish to freshen salt fish, like mackerel or codfish 
to be broiled whole, put it in the water with the skin side ui3, 
otherwise the salt, more dense than the water, settles against 
the skin and it takes longer to freshen. 

SOAP RECIPE. 

Six gallons of rainwater, boiling, six pounds of grease, one 
and one-half boxes concentrated lie. Boil three hours, add one 
teacup of salt and one quart of water and boil one hour longer. 

BOTTLE STOPPERS. 

A few drops of ammonia will loosen stoppers in jars or bottles. 

To clean kid gloves, laces aad ribbons, the following is said to 
be most excellent: One quart deodorized benzine, one drachm 
sulphuric ether, one drachm chloroform, two drachms alcohol. 
Pour the fluid in a bowl and wash the articles as in water, rins- 
ing in a fresh supply. 

A brass kettle must be cleaned with salt and vinegar. 

One pound of green coperas dissolved, in one quart of water 
will destroy all offensive odors. 

LIQUID SAPOLIO. 

Two ounces yellow ochre, two pounds whiting, one-fourth 
pound sal soda, two ounces burnt amber. Add water to make 
the mixture thin enough to pour into a bottle; apply to glass, 
wood, silver or brass with a woolen cloth slightly; wipe dry with 
canton flannel. 

An excellent furniture iDolish is made by mixing two parts of 
boiling linseed oil with one of turpentine; this must be well 
rubbed in and wiped dry and used on oiled furniture. 



88 THE EPICUREAN. 



Grates and registers that look well may be improved by a 
coating of asphaltum varnish. This must be made thin with 
turpentine. 

Salt water is very good to take in the morning if you feel like 
you are going to have a headache. Salt water is good for the 
eyes. Bath them night and morning. 

VALUABLE FOR AN INVALID. 

Beat the yolk of an egg in a glass with a teaspoon of sugar 
until very light, stir in a teaspoon of cherry, port or brandy,add 
the whites beaten to a froth and mix well. If wine is not de 
sired, lemon juice may be used in its place. This is strengthen- 
ing and valuable for an invalid, 

COMMON PIE CRUST. 

One pint of sifted flour, one teaspoon of baking powder, one 
heaping spoon of lard, a little salt and milk to make dough; 
roll thin. 

PUFF PASTE. 

One pound of flour; one pound of butter, use half the butter 
with the flour, and ice water to mix; roll it out quite thin, and 
put on half the remaining butter in small bits; dredge with 
flour, roll up the paste and roll out again, thin; repeat this until 
all is used. Do quickly and handle as little as possible. Put in 
a cool place until ready to bake. 

TO MAKE TEA. 

One teaspoonful of green tea is sufficient for two persons. 
Boil the water quickly; scald the teapot, and pour over the tea 
one cup of water. After five or ten minutes pour over another 
cup of water, or more, according to the strength desired. 
Black tea should be boiled, but green tea only drawn. A mix- 
ture of the black and green tea is excellent. 

ICED TEA. 

Prepare in advance and make as other tea, but stronger when 
served hot. Serve with sugar, but without milk, and keep on 
ic8. Use a mixture as for hot tea. The best iced tea is made 
by pouring freshly steeped hot tea over plenty of ice, serve 
with lemon. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Put as much milk on to boil as you like, for one gallon of 
sweet milk it takes one half pound of chocolate dissolved with 



THE EPICUREAN. 89 



hot water until smooth, when the milk comes to a boil pour 
your chocolate in slowly and stirring all the time, sweeten to 
taste, let it cook until it gets thick, served with whipped cream. 

TO TOAST COFFEE. 

Pick over your coffee. Put in large pan stir often and give 
it constant attention. Toast dark brown but let not one grain 
overglaze as this destroys the aroma. 

PORK ROAST. 

Get a nice cut of pork, wash well, rub salt and pepper over 
it well; it is nice to put just a little onion to give it a good flavor, 
you can put some tomato catsup and a little mustard and vine- 
gar, then sprinkle some flour over the top, put some boiling 
water, and you can -add more water if needed, it will take about 
four hours slow cooking for a six pound roast, bast every once 
and awhile, and a nice way to cook sv/eet or Irish potatoes is to 
peel them and cook with the roast and serve them on the same 
dish, and if you have parsley or celery you may garnish the dish 
before taking to the table. 

COLD ROAST. 

Slice it and season with pepper and salt, have your gritiron 
on, put a lumjD of butter, and when hot put the meat in and let 
it get thoroughly heated, it is nice for breakfast or supper, you 
can add some parsley or garnish the dish with parsley. If you 
garnish your dishes, no matter how little you have, it is more 
tempting Now with a six pound roast you can have three or 
four meals, first have the hot roast for dinner, and for supper 
have cold roast, and for breakfast have hash, then for dinner 
the next day have soup, and then for supper you can get enough 
meat off of the bones to make croquettes for supper, by adding 
some bread crumbs, pickles, eggs and any other cold meat you 
may have on hand chopped fine, and mixing alltogether, form 
into balls and fry in hot lard. 

HOME-MADE BREAD. 

One pint of water, one yeast cake, one teaspoon salt, one ta- 
blespoon sugar, one tablespoon lard, flour to make a soft dough. 
Let set over night. The first thing in the morning make the 
bread. Don't have it too stiff — it will make better bread when 
not so stiff. Make it with some more flour and set it to rise 
again, and the next time make it into loaves or rolls and let rise 
again, then bake with rather a slow fire, and while baking grease 



90 THE EPICUREAN. 



on top with lard or butter. If the fire is too hot the bread will 
brown too fast and won't be done in the middle. If the bread 
seems the least bit sour add a little soda. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Two cu]3fuls of white cornmeal, two cupfuls of yellow cornmeal, 
two cupfuls of graham flour or of rye meal or of white flour, 
two cupfuls of milk (one of them being sour m^lk, if convenient) 
two cupfuls of boiling water, one cupfuls of molasses, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one teaspoonf ul of soda. Mix well the flour, meal 
and salt, add to them the boiling water; mix the sweet milk 
and molasses together and add them to the scalded meal. Dis- 
solve the soda in the sour milk and add it last. Turn the mix- 
ture into a covered cylindrical mold or into a covered pail, and 
steam it for three hours, then uncover and bake in the oven for 
half an hour. Slices of this bread buttered, and covered with 
cream makes a good breakfast or luncheon dish. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Two eggs, tw^o cups of sweet milk. This will make one dozen 
muffins . One-half teaspoonf ul of salt, and a little sugar if you 
desire it, and enough graham flour to make a stiff dough, two 
teaspoons baking powder .Have the tins red hot with some lard 
in them, bake m the top of the stove until brown, then put in 
the botton until brown on the bottom. You can make them with 
buttermilk and soda, but if you do use buttermilk use one tea- 
spoon of baking powder; Buttermilk muffins should be eaten 
at once and not let stand. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Two cupfuls of graham flour, one cupful of milk, one cupful 
of water, two eggs, one-half teaspoonf ul of salt, one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar. Mix the dry ingredients together, mix the milk 
with the salt and sugar, add the water, then the flour, and 
lastly fold in the whipped whites and put at once in very hot 
greased gem pans, filling them half full. Bake in a hot oven 
thirty minutes. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Two cups of flour, one cup of milk, one level tablespoonful of 
butter, three eggs, beaten separately, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, two even teaspoonf uls of baking powder. Bake in a cake 
pan. In this form it is served for luncheon or for tea. 

SAVE THE "PIECES." 

Now don't throw away any cold meat you may have on hand. 
You can always use it either in making croquettes or hash, or 



THE EPICUREAN. 91 



soup. There is always a way to use it. You can take any kind 
of meat, or two or three different kinds, and chop fine and you 
can have a nice dish of croquettes. You can form them in any 
shape you hke and dip them either in meal or bread crumbs and 
fry in hot grease. Now if you should have a turkey and have 
too much for one meal, have cold turkey, then you can 
make hash or salad, and out of the bones make soup — by adding 
a little butter you can have a nice soup. There is always a way 
to use up cold meats or cold bread. Make bread pudding or fry 
the bread. And you can make a delicious meat pie out of scraps 
of meat; make a nice rich pastry and stew the meats and season 
very highly, then line the pan with pastry and put a top on, 
bake in the stove for half an hour, and you will have a nice pie. 
It is all in the seasoning. If you don't season things up high 
they will not be good. You can take a tuff piece of steak and 
season it up well and put plenty of butter and it will be all 
right. If you have cold Irish potatoes left over, make potato 
balls or make potato pies. Be economical and don't waste what 
you can't use in one day. You may be able to use it the next 
day. 




ADVERTISEMEOSrrS. 






TlJhite's Cotton 
% ^own 9/?attress 

a/ 



ONE OF THE GREATEST 
LUXURIES OF THE AGE. 



The most reliable and the cheapest of all first- 
class mattresses. It is superior in both com- 
fort and durability to either hair or wool mat- 
tresses. Every mattress is guaranteed to give 
perfect satisfaction or money refunded. 



(fl THIS IS ONE OF WACO'S NEW INDUSTRIES 

MATTRESSES MADE TO ORDER 
«\ ALL ORDERS PROMPTLY EXECUTED 

A\ ANY SPECIAL SIZE DESIRED 

% 

/\ 

'i Waco Mattress Factory^ 

No. 204 BRIDGE ST.— EAST WACO. 
TELEPHONE No. 493. 




ADVERTISEMENTS. 



t 



"="s*HSMGER BR08r"'"=- 



♦!♦ 



y ( Contributed by Experience. ) V 

J^ow to Save vlfoney. 

\ — I 

♦^» Mix common sense with economy, and when you mxist >^ 
♦|* spend money, spend it where 'twill buy the most of the ^^ 
♦!♦ best, and if your wants are within the precincts of its 55 ♦> 
♦ Departments, 'tis always at ♦!* 

% X 

y^ The Great Department Store of It; 

I SANGER BROTHERS, I 

T X 

*S^ where Dry Goods, Clothing, Men's Furnishing Goods, 1:1 

y^ Ladies' Suits, MusUn Underwear, Millinery, Kid Gloves ^ % 

X Hosiery, Gloves, Boys' Clothing, X 

% % 

•IF Carpets, Curtains and Mattings, % 

V V 

X X 

♦!♦ assisted by all the other various departments, do price- }^ 

X talking that draws large patronage to the great store. X 

% % 

t PRICES ARE ALWAYS RIGHT, | 

:^: :% 

♦|* made so by large experience in merchandising and great ^^ 
\ purchasing power in the markets of the world. ♦!♦ 

I ___ \ 



Solicited ! i i ki i ^ i i i i\ i 1 1 \ i Ji i i FREE 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



..GO TO.. 


WM. 


HERZ BROS'. 


CAMERON 

& CO. 


FOR 


o 


FINE 


MANTELS, 
TILING, 


CIGARS 


GRATES, 
SCREEN DOORS 


AND 

THE LATEST 

IN 


AND WINDOWS. 
O 


LITERATURE. 


611 FRANKLIN STREET 



Established 1867. 



E. ROTAN, President. H. H. Shear, Vice-President. 

W. W. Davis, Secretary-Treasurer. 



capital; $250,000. 



THE ROTAN GROCERY COMPANY, 



headquarters for 



STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES, 



31H26 SOUTH FIFTH STREET. 



.WACO, TEXAS. 



Orders from Home or Abroad receive our 
careful attention. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



AT LEVY'S 



405 Austin St. 

The Ladies can 
always count on seeing 
tlie very latest and 
swellest styles 
as fast as tl^ey appear. 
We sell noticing but 
Dry Goods, 
and tliat of tine 
very best qualities, 
at the rr[ost reasonable 
prices; every article 
guaranteed and 
your rnoney bacK 
if you want it. 



JOHN E. HfiRRlGflN, 

PROPRIETOR 

WACO 

BOTTLING 

WORKS 



Location, Suspension Bridge, 
Telephone 123. 

SPECIALTIES 

Iron Brew, 

Cherry Phosphate, 

Cider and 

Ginger Ale. 



PKEE CITY DELIVERY. 



Do Away with the Danger of an Oil Stove. 

m RANGES ¥IOT EXPLODE 

There is no tank to fill, no dirt, no ashes, 
it is clean, cool and quick. 

GET A STOVE THAT IS ALWAYS READY, 



AND HAVE MEALS ON TIME. 



We will take pleasure in explaining the working of the Stove, 

showing that with intelligent handling it can be 

used as cheaply as other fuel. 



WACO GAS COMPANY, 

Corner Fourth and Washington, 
WACO, TEXAS. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 




TF^^i^ Tt^E:; 



TEXAS STEAM LAUNDRY, 

Ladies' Shirt Waists and Dresses 
A Specialty. 

TWENTY-FIVE PIECES BED AND TABLE LINEN 

Made Beautifully White for only 25 cents. 

Phone 159. ....W. H. WOOD, Proprietor. 



ESTABLISHED 1866. 



THOS. GOGGAN & BRO., 

412 Austin Avenue, 

LARGEST PiflNO,ORGflN«NDMUSIC HOUSE 

We have Houses in Waco, Galveston, Dallas, Houston, 
Austin and San Antonio. 

LAZENBY'S EXTRACTS 

have been thoroughly tested and found equal to any on the 
market. Do not use too much. 

ASK YOUR GROCER FOR THEM. 

Prepared Exclusively by 

THE RRTESIAN MFG. 8 BOTTLING CO. 



ADVERTISEOVIENTB. 



J\ mmm 


COMFORT 


gm^^£r^ 


IN SHOES 


AT ^^V [• V ^gsH 


COMBINED WITH 


HJite^T^yL aj^ *^Coa.l 




I^^^B Oil 


ELEGANCE and LOW PRICES 




EJ^^Wk y— >^ vjfiSSf 


MAKES THE 


"^1/^ >^/ John^^ 


MAMMOTH SHOE HOUSE 
OF 


\. / ^ /Cgr^ 




Uk3l* 


SLEEPER, CLIFTON 


OIL.GIISOLINE AND TURPENTINE 


& CO., 


Machine Oil of all kinds 


...SO POPULAR... 


in any quantity. 




McGAUGHEY BROTHERS, 


CC)RNER Fourth and Austin Sts.. 


612 Austin St. ...WACO, TEX. 


WACO, TEXAS. 


1)% ifp fe flj^ ^\rc[Ki> 


W. E. DUPUEE, 


What would be your opinion 


C©n:\n:\i^^i©t\ M^rc}]^t\f, 


of the farmer who would insist 




on reaping- his lield with a sickle 


...SELLS... 


or mowing his hay with a 




scythe ? Yet you women con- 


DOMESTIC 




tinue to ignore our machines 


SEWING 


for laundry work and waste 


STANDARD 


time and muscle over wash- 






boards ? Wake up ! Let the 


WHEELER 5 WILSON • • 


MUCH NE8 


twentieth century machinery 


WHITE 


help you, as it helps the men. 






Bring us your laundry work. 


ALTj 




FIRST-CLASS 


A^i^^i^tl Q>U^rr\ lMx\iry 


MACHINES 


Geo. E. Cannon, Proprietor, 






The Dupree Building, 


211 South Fourth Street, 




WACO, TEXAS. 


WACO, T 


EXAS. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



I AM THE MAN"S 

BUSINESS EDUCATION ».oney w.ll procure. 

BOOK-KEEPING, BANKING, STENOGRAPHY, TYPEWRITING, PEN- 
MANSHIP, PREPARATORY AND ACADEMIC DEPARTMENTS. 

BEST METHODS. BEST BUILDING. BEST TEACHERS. Send fof Hanilsoni8 lllustratfld Calaiogw. 




o^'*^ 



..._.. ^^^ ^^^.^.^- Ws Practical Business College 

WACO, TEXAS. 



If you desire to sell farms, ranches, vacant lots or improved property 
in any part of this State or elsewhere, we will procure a purchaser for you. 

Do you wish to purchase property anywhere — we will procure for you 
just what you desire. 

Have you any kind of property that you wish to exchang-e — we will pro- 
cure for you a fair offer. 

Do you desire to borrow or to loan money on real estate security — we 
will negotiate the loan. 

We now have on our books numerous fine residences and business 
properties to exchang-e for farms and ranches: we have also farms and 
lands to trade for city property, cattle and merchandise. 

We have an extensive correspondence, and can, without doubt, serve 
you in any transaction you may wish to undertake. 

We have good rigs, nice teams, no trouble to show property. 
J. E. HORNE & Co., 109 S. 5th St., Hotel Royal block, Waco, Texas. 



FALL & PUCKETT, 

XDinbertakers anb lEmbalmers, 

423 FRANKLIN STREET, 
WACO, TEXAS. 

GEYSER ICE COMPANY, 

e^^PURE CHRYSTAL ICE^^e^ 

FACTORY, RETAIL STAND, 

Tenth and Jackson Sts. Eighth and Washingfton 



SAM TRUBSHAW. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



'*o3 i_i 1-1 r^r^r^FtF? o 403 

AUSTIN AVENUE ■ «• » *• "^w-* "^^-^ a—^ ■—»■—/■ -^ » AUSTIN AVENUE 

Snffraved i/isitinff Cards and SnvitationSy 

Books, Stationery and Holiday Goods, 



BEAUTIFYING 
COMPLEXION 



ROHRER'S ARTESIA CREAH, ThI 

Positively removes Freckles, Pimples, Sunburn, Tan, 
and also Chapped Faces and Hands. 

Prevents Wrinkles, Beautifies and Purifies the Skin and produces results 
which no other remedy has or can. Any lady having- used the beauti- 
fying- cream "Artesia" once will not think her toilet complete without it. 
Can be sent by mail to any address on receipt of 25 cents. 

MANUFACTURED ONLY BY 

GEYSER DRUG CO., PRESCRIPTION DRUGGISTS, 

WACO, TEXAS. 

WEST & SEARCY, 

jfire anb Hccibent "ffnsurance, 

Phone 272. Ill SOUTH FIFTH STREET. 

Xlhe iProuident *Druff Companj/y 

The Best Prescription House in the City^ 
1:23 SOUnrH i^OURTH STREET. 

FREE DELIVERY. 

J. H. /v\/\ck:ey. 

Real Estate ^ Loans ^ Investments, 

WAC», TEXAS. 

HILL. BROTHEPLS. 

School anb flDiscellaneous jBooks, 

FiNE^ Stationery a Specialty. 
A Full Line of Artists' Materials. . . . 3'2S J^ustin j^vanuo. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



Have Your Husband and 
Your Boys 

WEAR S.-K. PANTS, 

And you will never have a button to sew on. 

MANUFACTURED BY 

THE SLAYDEN-KIRKSEY WOOLEN MILL 







ICEandCOAL 

COLD STORAGE 



EG^f^rst. 



tHE WACb 

ELECTRICAL SUPPLY AND PLUMBING 

COMPANY 

5l6^Austin Avenue, Waco, 

Have the most complete stock of Electrical and Gas Chande- 
liers in the State. We are prepared to furnish you with any 
style that you may call for, fr.om $4.00 to $40.00 each. Call and 
see us when you wish anything in the electrical or plumbing 
hne. Phone 261. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



J. W. Winfrey. A, B. Piper. 

J. W. WINFREY & COMPANY 

Livery, Sale and Carriage Stables, 

BUYING AND SELLING HORSES A SPECIALTY. 

109 South Eighth Street, W A T H TF Y A Q 

Telephone 369. ....Vv/iL'U, iCAAo. 

WflCO STERM LAUNDRY, 

Crow Bros., Proprietors. 

Bank of River, WAPO TFYA^ 

Near Suspension Bridge. VV /Av_><W, 1 CArVO. 

SPECIAL RATES BY MAIL OR EXPRESS. 

Telephone No. 3, Prompt Attention and First-Class Work 



Tt^JB^ F».A.r^j^c:;E:; 



DELICATESSEN RESTAURANT, 

is the place to bring- your Ladies and get 
all things of the Season. 

EVERYTHING SERVED IN FIRST-CLASS STYLE 

408 Austin Avenue, 
waco, texas. 

'Soros/s'^^ 2/ff^y ^^^11 are "Sorosis," 

The .... S Daintily Shod are Those who Wear Them. 

Smartest . . ^ EXTREME OF STYLE, 

< ACME OF FASHION, 

} PERFECTION OF COMFORT. 

^ What is more attractive than a handsome foot? 

\ "Sorosis" will make yours so, no matter what size you wear. 

^'^T^o \ so^^^?";'!^,,^.^^- C. B. HARMAN & CO. 



Boot . 
On. . 

Earth 
For . 

Women 



ADVERTISBMEiNTS. 



DR. W. 0. WILKES, 

Physician and Surgeon, 

OFFICE, 52012 AUSTIN AVENUE. 



Telephone 
No. 58 



Office Hours, 
11 to 12 a.m. 3 to 5 p.m. 



Attorney at Law. City Attorney 



TOM L. MGCULLOUGH, 



405^ Austin St. 



JAGO, TEXAS. 



Office. 
ROOM 11 CHALMERS BLOCK 



Telephone 
341 



DOCKERY & CO., 

FIRE INSURANCE AGENTS, 

Representing the Leading Com- 
panies OF THE World. 



C. Guy Rbily, 



J. R. Ferrell. 



DRS. REILY & FERRELL, 

EYE, Ear, Nose and Throat, 

OFFICE, 600j^ AUSTIN STREET. 



DR. J. O. HOWARD, 

PAINLESS DENTIST, 



FINE GOLD FILLINGS, ' ^^^ WORK guaranteed first-class 

CROWN, BRIDGE AND PLATE WORK ® Office over Citizens National Bank, 

I 



A SPECIALTY. 



Waco, Texas. 



ADVERTISEIMENTS. 



E. E. THOMPSON 



FOR.. 



UP-TO-DATE 



PAINTING 

...A^D... 

PAPER-HANGING. 



SEEGAR 

GOAL X WAREHOUSE CO. 



WHOLESAI^E AND 
RETAIL, 



MGALESTER, COLORADO. ANTHRACITE 
AND PIEDMONT 



Railroad Storage Warehouse 



EDdorsed by merchants and bank- 
ers as the only great Business Uni- 
versity of high g-rade and wide rep- 
utation in the South. Strongest 
faculty South of Chicago. Its meth- 
ods are up-to-date, practical, pro- 
gressive, short and to the point. 
Recognized by the business world 
as the equal of any in the United 
States, and far superior to all oth- 
ers in the South. Its unsurpassed 
advantages enable the student to 
complete in less time and at less ex- 
pense than elsewhere, and its grad- 
uates always get the best positions 
at '^he highest salaries, because 
they know how to do the work. 

Address, R. H. Hill, Pres., 

Waco, Texas. 



HOPKINS BROTHERS, 

South Fifth Street, 

MflNUFETURERS OF BUGGIES. 

FARM AND DELIVERY WAGONS 

Do all kinds of repairing and 
blacksmithing on short notice. Set 
tires without taking them off the wheel, 
with their great hydraulic machine, 
put on RUBBER TIRES by the latest 
improved methods. They make a 
specialty of horse-shoeing, having 
a separate department fitted up with 
rotary fans, and free from obstruc- 
tions of every kind. Your patron- 
age is respectfully solicited. 



Manufacturers of and 
Dealers in 

Agricultural Implements, 

Wagons aqd Vehicles, 



North-East Corner Square 
and Second St" , 



%j. K. f^k la G©.. 

RELIABLE GROCERS, 



108-111 South Sixth Street, 



We carry a full line of Battle 
Creek Food. 



ADVEIRTISEMENTB. 



THE EQUITABLE ASSURANCE SOCIETY 

OF THE UNITED STATES, 

Equitable Building, New York City. 



HE LARGEST COMPANY IN THE WORLD... 



Assets, January 1, 1898 $236,876,308.04 

Surplus, New York Standard 50,543,174.84 



A Very Attract hx Line of Policies for i8gS^ Embracing Many 

Nczv Features. 



Ordinary Life Cash and Loan Values 

10, 15 and 20 Payment . . 

Endowments 

Installments 

Term 10, 15 or 20 Years 

5 per cent. Gold Debenture Bonds 



IN MAKING PROVISION FOR YOUR FAMILY 

THE BEST IS ALWATS THE CHEAPEST 



See me before placing- your Insurance. 

WACO, TEXAS. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



...QUADRUPLE... 

jflavoving Bx tracts, 

are the purest and best for Ice Cream, Ices and all kinds of 
cooking, such as Cakes, Pastry, etc., etc. 

Vanilla, Lemon, Pineapple, Raspberry, 

Orange, Banana, Strawberry, Etc., etc. 

Large Bottles Retail for 25 Cents. 

FOR SALE BY ALL DRUGGISTS AND GROCERS. 

Be sure and get the "Empire" Brand. 

W. B. MORRISCN & CO., Manufacturing Druggists, 

Sole Proprietors, Waco, Texas. 

W. W. SELEY, Proprietor. T. H. GLANCY, Manager 

OPENED JULY, 1898. 

THE NEW STATE HOUSE, 

WACO, TEXAS. 
RATES $2 00 AND $2.50 PER DAY 



W. W. SELEY. MEREDITH A SULLIVAN, C. M. SELEY, 

President. Cashier. Assi. Cashier 

ORGANIZED 1877. 

WACO STATE BANK, 

W. W. SELEY, Proprietor. 

Capital $100,000. Individual Responsibility $300,000 

TRANSACTS A GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS- 

YOUR ACCOUNTS, LARGE OR SMALL SOLICITED. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



rNSUR/^JNCE; 



GEO. WILLIG S CO JlRE,PLflTE GLflSS,T0RNM0,8TEMB0ILERflNDLlMLITY 

WACO, TEXAS. 

WALTER V. FORT & CO,, 

Fire Insiara^noe, Siarety Bonds 

WACO, TEXAS. 

AC. PRENDERGAST, Attorney at Law, 
• over Citizens National Bank, Waco, Texas. 

BUXTON & KIRK, Attorneys at Law, 
J B. BUXTON. 113| South Fourth st, Waco, Texas. 



BRANT H. KIRK. 



c 



LARK & BOLINGER, Attorneys i\T Law, 
GEO. CLARK. Clark Building, Waco, Texas. 

D. C. BOLINQER. 

BAKER & ROSS, Attorneys at Law, 
411i Austin St., Waco, Texas. 

HENRY & STRIBLING, Attorneys at Law, 
R >- HENRY. Clark Building, Waco; Texas. 



O. L. STRIBLING. 



p B. BA K I, Attorney at Law, 



over First National Bank, Waco, Texas. 



522 AUSTIN STREET, WACO, 



INDEX. 

PAGE 

Breads 13-89 

Coffee 12 

Cottolene Receipts 15 

Cooked Eggs 45 

Colognes 53 

Cooking for the sick 63 

Cakes 69 

Candy ^. 84 

Dinner-Giving Etiquette 4 

Deserts 27 

How to Carve 41 

How to Cook Chickens 44 

Icing 80 

Menus for Dinner 6 

Menus for Luncheon 7 

Menus for Breakfast 8 

Menus for 10 o'clock Breakfast . . ' 11 

Mayonnaise Dressing 25 

Miscellaneous 83 

Poultry and Game 19 

Preserves 56 

Punch 82 

Pies 66 

Salads 26 

Sauces 23 

Shell Fish 21 

Sandwiches 48-59 

Soups 60 

Summer Salad 65 

Suggestions for Housekeepers 86 

Tomatoes 52 

Vegetables • 59 

Weddinsr Anniversaries 53 



