bJl& 




/iDOLPHE /i^EYlR, 




MEMORIAL POULTRY LIBRARY 



"f/ZE Gift qy 
W-. r. Termojilen 



•i. n M n w A R ii n «; Si K Si n n n m « « 



Cornell University Library 
TX 745.M61 

Eggs, and how to use the^i;;* 9"''J,^|||?,'i|'*' 




3 1924 003 579 020 




The original of tliis bool< is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003579020 



E^GGS, 



1bow to XDlse TLhcm. 



A GUIDE FOR THE PREPARATION OF EGGS IN 

OVER FIVE HUNDRED DIFFERENT STYLES 

WITH SOME REFERENCE TO THEIR 

IMPORTANCE IN THE PAST 
, AND PRESENT TIMES. 



ADOLPHE MEYER, M.C.A. 

Many years Chef of the Union Club: Corresponding Member of the 
' Cookery and Food Association^ London. 



PUBLISHED BY THE AUTHOR, 

New York, 1898. 



TO 

ALL, WHO ACKNOWLEDGE 

THEIR INDEBTEDNESS TO THE EGG; 

THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED. 



Copyright, 1898, by Asolphe Meyer. 




SI CDat witi) tDe Reader. 



THIS modest little book scarcely deserves the 
dignity of a formal preface. Indeed, it 
seems as though prefaces have gone out of 
fashion in recent years. They have proven very 
useful, however, to authors desirous of placing 
themselves and their subject on a proper footing 
with their readers, before the latter begin the 
task of critically examining their literary wares. 
In the present instance, the writer has ventured 
to call attention to the prominent part which, that 
most common yet most useful article of diet, the 
egg, has played in the development of the science 
and art of cookery, ever since primeval man first 
realized the possibilities of fire and water in the 
proper preparation of food. These pages also 



€i$s, and Row to Use Cl>eni. 



contain a complete guide, showing the many 
different ways in which the egg can be treated, 
so as to please the eye as well as the palate. It 
can be justly claime4 for the egg that it is as 
popular among the vast multitude of those who 
merely eat to live, as it is with that select brother- 
hood of don vivanfs, who only live to eat. 
. When all is said, however, the egg must stand 
alone upon its intrinsic merits. Like woman, 
when an egg is good, there is nothing better; 
when it is bad, there is nothing worse. 

The Author. 




PART I 



a l^istoricaK CDeoretical and Practical 
Cbaptcr on eggs. 

IN all times and in all ages, among all races and 
in all lands, as far back as written history and 
tradition can be traced, the egg has ever been 
regarded as chief among Nature's most precious 
gifts to mankind. 

This universal popularity has been due not 
merely to the fact that the egg is found: in every 
corner of the earth, and that it is a most whole- 
some and nutritious article of food, but also, to 
the additional and very important fact, that it is 
continuously and abundantly reproduced, ready 
for immediate use, without the aid or assistance 
of those who benefit by its production. 



(> €j5s, and Row to Use Cbem. 

Famous cooks, in the past as well as the pres- 
ent, have been fully aware how much they are 
indebted to the egg, in the creation of the various 
sauces and delicacies, that have made their repu- 
tation as masters in the art of cookery. In fact, 
without the aid of eggs, the artistic cook would 
have to abandon his profession in despair. 

In ancient times the life-giving quality of the 
egg was recognized by the philosophers of those 
days, who regarded it as the symbol of awaken- 
ing life, and many of them advised their disciples 
and followers to abstain from the use of eggs as 
food, so as not to destroy a germ, which Nature 
had destined for the production of a new life. 
The egg was also regarded as an emblem of the 
material world, representing the four elements 
which compose it, as follows: — the shell indicat- 
ing earth ; the white, water ; the yolk, fire ; and 
the capula (between shell and white) being typical 
of the air. 

Hutchinsori, in his history of Northumberland, 
says: " Eggs were held by the Egyptians as a 
sacred emblem of the renovation of mankind after 
the deluge. The Jews adopted it to suit the cir- 
cumstances of their history, as a type of their 
departure from the land of Egypt, and it was used 
in the feast of the Passover as a part of the furni- 
ture of the table, with the Pascal lamb." 

Greeks and Romans used eggs in their sacri- 
fices, and carried them with great pomp, in honor 
of Ceres,' the Goddess of Agriculture. 



€S3s, and Row to Use Cbeni. 7 

Pliny, in his natural history, tells the story of 
Livia, the wife of Nero, who, during her preg- 
nancy, consulted a fortune teller; and the latter 
advised her, " Warm in your bosom a new-laid 
egg until hatched ; if a male chicken comes forth, 
thank the Gods, who will grant you a son." The 
Empress followed the advice, as given, with the 
result that her wish was gratified, as she gave 
birth to Tiberius. Her example was followed by 
many of the foremost women of Rome, greatly to 
the amusement of those who watched these proud 
matrons devote themselves to the incubation of 
chickens. 

Once upon a time eggs played an import- 
ant part in the interpretation of dreams, as is 
shown by the following legend: A man, who 
dreamed that he had eaten an egg, consulted a 
soothsayer, and that wise man informed him that 
the white of the egg signified that the dreamer 
would, before, long, come into the possession of 
some silver, and the yolk meant that he would 
soon receive some gold. The fortunate dreamer 
soon afterward received a legacy consisting partly 
of those two precious metals. He hastened to 
thank the fortune teller, and offered him a piece 
of silver. "This is very well for the white," said 
the latter, "but is there naught for the yolk ? " 

Athenaeus mentions a certain Nichomachus, 
who said, "My father left me very little property. 
In a few months I made it as round as an egg; and, 
then breaking the shell, I made but one gulp of 



3 €SSs, and I70W to Use Cbem. 

it." This shows clearly that the ancients were 
partial to soft boiled eggs. 

The Romans were very fond of new laid 
eggs, which formed the first course of every 
dinner. 

They asserted that it was necessary to remain 
at the table " from the egg to the apple," if one 
wished to maintain himself in health. Hence the 
adage, " ai ovo usque ad mala," or "from the be- 
ginning to the end." 

In speaking of this custom, the author of the 
Tabella Cibaria, cynically remarks, " This expres- 
sion, '■abovo,' — from the beginning — alludes also 
to those prolix narrators, who would begin the 
history of the siege of Troy by recalling the cir- 
cumstance of Castor and Pollux, as well as Helen 
and Clytemnestra, having been hatched out of 
Leda's egg." This fable is thus alluded to in the 
Hexameter: " Pollux and Castor were hatched 
out of a couple of eggs," says our poet (Horace), 
"yet, you boldly call for them, as if you were 
not afraid of finding there, not the Dioscuri, but 
some half-formed chickens." 

It was a Roman custom to mark the beginning 
of the New Year, which then occurred in March, 
by presents of bright colored eggs in honor of 
Castor and Pollux. This custom still prevails in 
some countries on New Year's Day, but it is more 
commonly followed during Easter tide. The eggs 
are then often made of sugar, chocolate, or paste- 
board covered with silk, and richly decorated 



esss, ana Row to Use CD«m. 9 

with artificial flowers, and, sometimes, they have 
presents of considerable value inside of them. 

Brand, in his Popular Antiquities, has much to 
say as to the origin of Easter eggs. He quotes 
from Douce's manuscript notes as follows : ' ' The 
author of Le Voyageur h Paris supposes that the 
practice of painting and decorating eggs at Easter 
among the Catholics, arose from the joy which 
was occasioned by their returning to their favor- 
ite food after so long an abstinence from them 
during Lent." 

Elsewhere he speaks of Efnilianne's Frauds of 
Romish Monks and Priests, in which are found the 
following passages: " On Easter Eve and Easter 
Day all the heads of families send great chargers 
full of hard eggs, to the church to get them 
blessed, which the priests perform by saying 
several appointed prayers, and making great signs 
of the cross over them and sprinkling them with 
water. The priest, having finished the ceremony, 
demands how many dozen eggs there be in every 
basin." 

"These blessed eggs have the virtue of sanctify- 
ing the entrails of the body, and are to be the 
first fat, or fleshy nourishment they take after the 
abstinence of Lent. The Italians do not only 
abstain from flesh during Lent, but also from 
eggs, cheese, butter and all white meats. As soon 
as the eggs are blessed, every one carries his por- 
tion home, and causeth a large table to be set in 
the best room in the house, which they cover with 



10 6^3$, and Row to Use tl)eni. 

their best linen, all bestrewed with flowers, and 
place around it a dozen dishes of meat and the 
great charger of eggs in the midst. 'Tis a very- 
pleasant sight to see these tables set forth in the 
houses of great persons, when they expose on 
side tables (round about the chamber) all the 
plates that they have in the house, and whatever 
else they have that is rich and curious, in honor 
of their Easter eggs, which of themselves yield a 
very fair show, for the shells of them are all 
painted with divers colors and gilt. Sometimes 
there are no less than twenty dozen in the same 
charger, neatly laid together in the form of a 
pyramid. The table continues in the same pos- 
ture, covered all the Easter week, and all those 
that came to visit them, in that time, were invited 
to eat an Easter egg with them, which they must 
not refuse." 

As a regular article of diet, eggs, and especially 
hens' eggs, have always been appreciated. The 
long shaped eggs were considered the best, and 
to give better nourishment, as they were cock- 
eggs (that is a cock would be hatched from them). 
The Romans did not confine themselves to hens' 
eggs, but they sought those of the partridge and 
the pheasant, and Quintus Hortensius introduced 
the use of peacocks' eggs. 

Galen, the first known of physicians, considered 
those of the partridge and the pheasant as the 
most delicate. 

Dr. Muffett, in his quaint book. Health's Im- 



€3Ss, and Row to Use Cbem. n 

provement, published in London in 1655, has the 
following to say as to the choice of eggs: 

" First; that they be rather Pullet's eggs, than 
laid by an old Hen. 

"Secondly; that they be not self-begotten, but 
gotten by the Cock upon the Hen. 

"Thirdly; that they be new, white and long; 
for such eggs nourish plentifully, and quickly 
clear the voice and breast, strengthen the stom- 
ach, recover men out of consumption, and in- 
crease nature so much, that in continuance of 
time they make us wanton. They nourish quick- 
ly, because they are nothing but liquid flesh; they 
nourish much, because their heat and moisture is 
proportionable unto ours. They are wholesomest 
in the morning, because they are then newest. 
They are best in winter, because hens are then 
fattest, strongest, and best relished; they are 
worst in summer, because hens feed then upon 
flies, snails, cadlocks, and many ill weeds, which 
rather scours than nourishes their bodies. They 
are best being eaten alone, because being mingled 
with other meats, they corrupt in the stomach, 
filling many men's faces full of pimples, mor- 
phens, and freckles. They are ill for young chil- 
dren (especially being often eaten), for that their 
bodies turn them into over hot nourishment, 
whence itch, scabs, inflammations and corruptions 
do arise. They are also bad for old men, because 
they are hardly digested of a cold stomach. Fittest 



12 £g$s, and Row to Use Cbetn. 

they are for temperate young persons, and such 
as are consumed without any notable fever." 

The learned doctor thus discourses upon the 
digestibility of eggs: "A rare egg anyway dressed 
is lightest of digestion ; a hard egg is most rebel- 
lious ; an egg betwixt both is of strongest nour- 
ishment. Eggs poached into water, or verjuice, 
are fittest for hot complexions, or men distem- 
pered with agues ; sodden rare in the shell, they 
are soonest converted into blood; but being rare 
roasted in embers they make thickest and strong- 
est blood, and are fittest for weak, cold and wa- 
terish stomachs. " 

In those days, strange as it may seem at this 
time, it was customary to roast eggs. John Dry- 
den, the old English poet, tells in rhyme of — 

" New laid eggs, with Baucis' busy care 
Turned by a gentle fire, and roasted rare." 

This custom is thus alluded to in Tabella Cibaria: 
" In countries where wood fire is constantly used, 
the cottager half buries his eggs in an upright po- 
sition in hot ashes, upon the hearth, and when a 
clear dew drop oozes on the top of the shell the 
eggs are fit to be eaten. Gastrqlogers are of the 
opinion that when done in this way, they have a 
much better flavor than when boiled. Fancy goes 
far in matters of taste. " 

The most singular method of cooking eggs is 
that attributed to the Egyptian shepherds, who, it 
is said, were able to cook eggs without fire, by 
placing them in a sling, and whirling them 



€gss, and fiow to Use Cbem. 13 

around so rapidly that the friction of the air heat- 
ed them to the exact degree desired. 

Giles Rose, chef of Charles the Second of Eng- 
land, gives a recipe for making a giant egg, which 
was often enough served upon the supper tables 
of the nobility and gentry in the seventeenth cen- 
tury. In the words of the recipe, " If you would 
have an egge so bigge, there is an art how it may 
cover other egges in it, and be not known from a 
natural egge. You shall part fifty, or more, yelks 
of egges and whites, one from the other; mingle 
the yelks gently and put them into a bladder, and 
bind it round as you can ; put it into a pot full of 
water, and when you see it buble, or when they 
are grown hard, take them out and add the white 
to them ; so filling the yeiks that they stand in the 
middle, and boil them again so you shall have an 
egge made without a shell, which you shall frame 
thus : 

Powder the white egge shells, clean washed, 
that they may fly into dust ; steep this into strong, 
or distilled vinegar, till they grow soft ; for if an 
egge be long in vinegar the shell will dissolve and 
grow tender that it may easily be passed through 
the small mouth of a glass; when it is thrust in 
with fair water it will come to its former hard- 
ness, that you will wonder at it; when the shells 
are dissolved like an unguent, with a pencil make 
a shell about your egge that is boiled, and let it 
harden in clear water, so shall you have a natural 
egge." 



14 €.&$s, and Row to Use Cbetn. 

In making this giant egg a feature of the royal 
table, Giles Rose desired to show in a material 
way the value and importance of eggs in the esti- 
mation of those who regard the preparation of 
food as something more than a mere matter of 
routine drudgery. 

The world-wide popularity of the egg has made 
it part of the folk-lore of every land; and there 
are few languages in which it is not used to ex- 
press a homely truth, or give point to some wise 
axiom. 

The French say : " // /aui casser des oeufs pour 
faire une omelette " (to make an omelette it is 
necessary to break eggs) ; or, in other words, one 
must oftentimes make some small sacrifice in 
order that an enterprise should be successful. 

A German adage is, '■'■Aenlich wie ein Ei dem 
anderen " ; which means a resemblance such as 
one egg has for another. 

The Latin phrase, "Ab ovo usque ad mala" 
(from the egg to the apple), or "from the begin- 
ning to the end," has been already alluded to. 

In English we say, "As full of meat as an egg," 
which is founded on the familiar saying that an 
egg contains as much nutriment as half a pound 
of meat. 

In preparing eggs for the table, the Romans 
cooked them in water, in hot ashes, on charcoal, 
in the frying pan, and also pickled them ; in fact, 
they had twenty different ways of making the egg 



€S$$. and fjovo to Use CDetn. 15 

pleasing to the eye as well as the taste of the ion 
vivants of those days. 

Apicius, a famous epicure of ancient Rome, left 
many recipes, that are still extant, and among 
them we find these: 

Eggsh la Romaine. — Cook several eggs; cut them 
and throw over them a seasoning composed in the 
following manner: bruise some pepper, alisander, 
coriander and rue, to which add garum, honey 
and a little oil. 

Hard Eggs a V Athenienne. — Cut each egg in four 
parts, and sprinkle them with garum, oil and 
wine. 

Fried Eggs a V Epoenete. — Fry several eggs, place 
them in a dish and season with a mixture of pep- 
per, alisander, pine nuts, garum and benzoin. 

Egyptian Egg Pudding. — Take the yolks of a 
number of hard eggs, reduce them to a paste with 
crushed pine nuts, an onion, a leek, some gravy 
and pepper ; add a little wine and garum ; stuff an 
intestine with the pulp, and cook. 

Dish of Eggs a la Macedonienne. — Put into a 
mortar some pepper, mint, parsley, pennyroyal, 
cheese and pine nuts ; when these are well crushed 
add honey and vinegar, fresh water and garum, 
and then a large number of yolks of eggs ; mix 
well with the rest, and throw the whole into 
a saucepan; add bread soaked in vinegar and 
water, which must be well squeezed out, some 
fresh cows' milk cheese, cucumber, almonds, 
chopped onions, fowls' livers and garum. 



1 6 €.iis, and Row to Use Cbem. 

Lesbian Eggs with Roses. — Pluck the leaves of 
several roses, taking only the whitest part, and 
put them into a mortar with garum ; stir a long 
time, add half a small glass of gravy; stir and 
strain; put into the liquor the brains of four 
fowls and eight scruples of ground pepper; stir a 
long time, and then add to it eight eggs, half a 
small glass of wine, and as much cooked wine, 
and lastly a little oil. Grease well the inside of 
a dish, pour the whole into it, and place it over a 
very slow charcoal fire, cook, sprinkle with pep- 
per, and serve. 

In the "Forme of Cury" we find a recipe for 
poached eggs, with a sauce of yolks of eggs and 
milk seasoned with saffron and salt. There is also 
an egg soup (brewet of ayren) composed of eggs, 
water, butter, cheese and saffron, mixed together 
and heated, but not boiled, with verjuice added 
before serving. 

In cookery books of the fifteenth century we 
find three recipes for eggs, two of vi\i.\chA-potag& 
de eggs and eyron enpoche — are merely poached 
eggs. The third is called eyroun en Lentyn, which 
probably means "eggs in Lent." In accordance 
with this recipe, the eggs are taken out of the 
shell and replaced together with milk of almonds, 
colored and seasoned with saffron and cinnamon, 
and then roasted. 

■[Jp to the seventeenth century there was very 
little improvement in the art of cookery, food be- 
ing just as much overspiced as in the days of the 



€SSs> and l70w to I5se Cbem. 17 

Romans. There was a marked change for the 
better during the seventeenth and eighteenth cen- 
turies, but the cookery books of that period are 
evidence of the lavish manner in which spices 
continued to be used, in spite of the greatly im- 
proved methods. 

Robert May, in his " Accomplished <Cook," 
(1665), gives sixty-two different styles of cooking 
eggs, among which he includes the recipe for the 
giant egg of Giles Rose. His recipes are nearly 
all very good, especially for making omelettes, of 
which he mentions twenty-one "divers wayes. " 
Although he does not give a name to each of 
these omelettes, the reader readily recognizes the 
familiar "omelette aux fines herbes," "au from- 
age," "au lard," "^ la Bonnefemme," "aux rog- 
nons et champignons," "aux oignons," "aux as- 
perges," etc. 

His " sixteenth way, or according to the Turkish 
mode of making an omelette," is curious enough 
to be mentioned here. The omelette is garnished 
with the "hinder part of a hare, or any other 
venison, " bacon minced small, pistachio nuts, hazel 
nuts, chestnuts, crusts of bread cut in slices, and 
sweet herbs, the dish being decorated with fried 
sippets of bread and slices of lemon. 

The "one and twentieth way " is an omelette 
with onions and apples, and a sauce of vinegar, or 
verjuice, butter, sugar and mustard. 

"To dress eggs in the Spanish fashion, called 



1 8 esss, and Row to ISse Cbeiti. 

wivos me guidos," is something of a sabaillon served 
on toast. 

Eggs a la HuguenoUe, or the Protestantway," is 
mentioned in many latter day cook books, and 
consists of scrambled eggs with mutton, or beef 
gravy, mushrooms, orange juice and grated nut- 
meg. 

Among the queerly named recipes are "eggs 
fried as round as a ball," "eggs in moonshine," 
"eggs, or quelquechose" "egg bisk," "a great 
dish of farced eggs," "egg caudle," and many 
others of similar quaintness and oddity of ex- 
pression. 

As the science of cookery developed, new re- 
cipes for the preparation of eggs were published 
from time to time. Vincent de la Chappele, in 
his "Modern Cook," mentions seventy-eight dif- 
ferent ways in which eggs could be cooked, and 
it is certain that many of them were very extrava- 
gant in their requirements.. In the matter of 
extravagant recipes, Mrs. Glasse, an English 
authority on the subject, expresses her opinion in 
the most emphatic manner. She says: "A French- 
man in his own country will dress a fine dinner 
of twenty dishes, and all genteel and pretty, for 
the expense he will put an English Lord to for 
dressing one dish. I have heard of a cook that 
used six pounds of butter to fry twelve eggs, 
when everybody knows (that understands cook- 
ing) that half a pound is full enough, or more 
than need be used, but then it would not be 



€s$s, and Row to Use Cbem. 19 

French. So much is the blind folly of this age, 
that they would rather be imposed on by a French 
booby than give encouragement to a good Eng- 
lish cook! " 

The absurdity of the above needs no comment, 
yet it is a positive fact that the imagination of 
many cooks knows no limit. To render a dish 
expensive is not always to make it taste better or 
more appetizing. 

Viard, in his Cuisinier Imperial, gives a recipe 
that recalls the extravagance of LucuUus. Here 
it is: "Roast twelve ducks underdone; score 
them down to the bone, press all the juice out of 
them, and put the juice under fifteen poached 
eggs." This dish was called, '■'■ Oeufs pochds a 
r essence de canards." It reminds one of Brillat- 
Savarin's famous dish, "eggs in gravy," and the 
circumstances under which he first prepared it. 

" One day," said this famous authority on gas- 
tronomy, in telling the story, "I was conducting 
two ladies to Melun, and on reaching Montgeron, 
after several hours travelling, we felt hungry 
enough to eat an ox. Alas ! the inn we stopped 
at, though it was decent enough looking, had 
nothing but an empty larder. Three stage coaches 
and two post chaises had been before us, and, 
like the Egyptian locusts, had devoured every- 
thing. 

Looking into the kitchen, however, I saw, turn- 
ing on the spit, a leg of mutton, the very thing 
wanted. The longing glances of the ladies were 



20 €sss, and Row to Use Cbem. 

in vain, for it belonged to three Englishmen, 
who had bought it, and who were now patiently 
waiting and chatting over a bottle of champagne. 

" But, surely," said I to the cook, in a mingled 
tone of entreaty and annoyance, "you might fry 
us some eggs in the gravy of this roast. With 
that and a cup of coffee with country cream in it, 
we shall be resigned to our fate." 

"Certainly," answered the cook, "the gravy I 
have a right to dispose of, and in two minutes 
you will have your dish." 

While he was breaking the eggs I went to the 
fire-place, and, with my travelling knife, made a 
dozen deep wounds in the forbidden " gigot,'' 
letting every drop of the gravy run out. Then, 
watching the preparation of the eggs, lest any- 
thing should spoil my plot, I took possession of 
the dish and carried it to our room. We, of 
course, made a capital meal, laughing loudly 
every time we thought of ourselves having the 
best part of the roast, and our friends, the Eng- 
lish, chewing the remainder." 

The recipe of the lively author of the Physi- 
ologic de GoAt, has nothing in common with that of 
Viard. Brillat Savarin proved that a true gas- 
tronomist will always find a way to render food 
agreeable to the taste, while Viard was ambitious 
to shine as a cook of great merit, when in reality 
the chief feature of his recipe was its costliness. 

In modern cookery the eggs most commonly 
used are those of hens and ducks, and more rare- 



€.sss, and Row to I5se Cbem. 2t 

ly those of turkeys and geese; though the eggs of 
certain fishes and reptiles are also in demand. 

Verdot, in his Historiographie de la Table, claims 
that ducks' eggs are best for pastry from the fact 
that they give a brighter color, better taste, and 
require less butter, which may be due to the fact 
that the oil in a duck's egg exceeds that of a hen's 
egg by so much as one-fourth. 

In Europe, more than in the United States, the 
eggs of the plover are by many looked upon as a 
great delicacy. They are highly esteemed by 
"Bon vivants," and often fetch fancy prices. 
They are usually served as Hors-d'oeuvres, and 
eaten hard boiled. 

In many countries, especially islands and along 
the sea shores, the inhabitants feed on the eggs of 
the different water birds, many of which, in spite 
of their fishy diet, are said to be of good taste. 

"For many kinds of cooking the eggs of wild 
birds are less valuable, though in the preparation 
of some sauces, where only the yellow portion of 
the egg is used, and where high color and high 
flavor are both esteemed, two wild bird eggs are 
considered equal to three domestic ones. The 
flavor of an egg is determined by the food of 
the bird, all or most of it resting in the yellow 
portion." (Simmonds. ) 

The collection of the eggs of wild birds form 
a branch of considerable industry in many coun- 
tries. 

During the season, the Jutten and Dassen Is- 



22 €sss, and Row to Use Cbent. 

lands send a daily average of 30,000 Penguin 
eggs to Cape Town, and at the little Island of 
Stylt some 50,000 gulls' eggs are collected an- 
nually, and quite as many of other sea birds. 

In Africa ostrich eggs are eaten, of which one 
is considered equal to twenty-four eggs of our 
domestic hen. 

Alexandre Dumas pere, the great novelist, also 
author of the Grand Dictionaire de Cuisine, describes 
therein a recipe given him by the cook of a Bey 
in Arabia, for the preparation and making of an 
omelette of ostrich eggs. 

Emeu eggs are nearly as large as those of the 
ostrich, and are frequently eaten by hunters and 
settlers in the bush of Australia. 

In the way of reptiles' eggs those of different 
species may be mentioned. 

Turtles' eggs are said to be far more nutritious 
than those of the hen. They are in the best eating 
condition when taken from the slain animal ; and 
again those, which are only imperfectly devel- 
oped, are supposed to be the choicest ; they then 
consist chiefly of the yolk and taste somewhat 
like terrapins' eggs. 

I know of a prominent man about town who 
orders three portions of terrapin stew for himself 
merely to partake of the eggs and liver. He is 
certainly a great lover of terrapins' eggs, and 
would be a good companion, for that gourmet 
who ordered six woodcocks just to obtain the 
brains and intestine of the birds. 



€gg$, ana fiow to Use Cbem. 23 

Alligators' eggs are eaten by natives. Travel- 
ers, who have eaten sbme, stated to have found 
them very good. 

Brown, in his work on Guiana, relates a story 
of a lizard which was killed and cut for cooking, 
and which contained ten shelUess eggs, midway 
in size between a pigeon and a hen's egg. They 
were boiled for about five minutes and allowed to 
get cold, and then eaten with salt. The yolk had 
the "consistency of butter" and was found to be 
excellent eating. 

Of fish eggs, an enormous quantity of those of 
the shad, more commonly known as shad roe, are 
consumed in this country. 

The eggs of the sterlet, a species of sturgeon 
found in Russian rivers, are used in the prepara- 
tion of the finest cavaire. 

Although there is plenty of caviare made in 
America exported to Europe and shipped back to 
us as the genuine article from Russia. 

Other kinds of eggs largely used in cookery, 
and of which ninety per cent, of ordinary people 
have no knowledge, are the spawn of the Crusta- 
cea, as lobsters, crabs and shrimps. They are 
pounded in the mortar mixed with butter and used 
for coloring and flavoring sauces. 

The coral out of the body of the lobster is used 
for the same purpose and is also employed for 
decorating. 

The Chinese regard eggs which are partly 
hatched as the most dainty of tid-bits; and, con- 



24 €i$s, and Row to Use Cl)em. 

trary to what most people would think, eggs in 
that condition are odorless. 

As to the different ways of eating eggs, the old 
adage, ' ' De gustibus non est disputandum, " reigns 
supreme. It is true that " Fancy goes far in mat- 
ters of taste." The simplest way, and the one 
most generally followed, is to have the eggs 
boiled. Here again, however, many conflicting 
ideas are encountered. Dumas asserts that the 
best way to eat a fresh egg is a la coque, that is to 
say, soft boiled in that fashion it loses none of 
its qualities. His recipe is to put the egg into 
cold water, which must be gently heated until it 
comes to the boiling point, at which instant the 
e.gg will be properly cooked. 

From experience it can be stated that this is an 
uncertain method, as it all depends upon the 
quantity of water and the degree of heat under- 
neath the vessel containing the egg. 

Mattieu Williams, in his Culinary Chemistry, rec- 
ommends the boiling of eggs in the "bain marie," 
or water bath. " In this case," he says, " a ther- 
mometer should be used, and the water surround- 
ing the egg must be kept at, or near, i8o degrees, 
Fahrenheit, the time of immersion being ten or 
twelve minutes." 

The results of this method are superior to any 
other, it is claimed, and eggs cooked in this way 
are "tender and delicate, evenly so throughout; 
no part being hard, while another part is semi- 
raw and slimy." 



€,S&s, and Row to Use Cl)em. 25 

The third method, and the one usually prac- 
tised by cooks, is the plunging of eggs into boil- 
ing water. Although not adopted by everybody 
as the true and only method, it is the one on 
which the cook can most safely depend to satisfy 
consumers. A standing law in cookery is that an 
egg, immersed as stated above, from two to two 
and a half minutes, is very soft boiled; from 
three to four minutes, it is soft ; five minutes, it 
is medium, that is the white is firm and the yolk 
is soft; from eight to ten minutes immersion 
makes the egg hard. 

In plunging eggs, especially fresh eggs, into 
boiling water, the shell is liable to burst. This is 
caused by the sudden exposure to the heat, which 
expands the albumen and causes the shell to give 
way. To prevent the breaking of the shell, only 
a small quantity of water should be used. The 
eggs will thus lower the temperature of the water 
sufficiently to allow a little of the inner liquid of 
the egg to force its way through the shell, so that 
the latter will not burst. Stale eggs are not like- 
ly to burst, as the shell being porous has per- 
mitted the evaporation of the fluid. 

There are different ways in which to judge the 
freshness of eggs. The most popular method is 
to test their translucency, by holding them in 
front of a bright light. If the eggs are fresh, 
they will be clearly transparent ; if they are stale, 
or decomposed, the light will seem dull and 
cloudy. 



26 €$$s, and l^ow to Use CDetn. 

Another way of testing an egg is to place it in 
a solution of salt and water, in which there are 
ten ounces of water to one ounce of salt. If the 
egg is fresh, it will sink slowly to the bottom. 
The older the egg, the more slowly, it will sink, 
and a bad egg will float on the surface. 

There is still another way of testing the fresh- 
ness of an egg, and that is by touching the larger 
end of the egg with the tip of the tongue. If the 
egg is fresh, it will feel cold ; if stale, it will feel 
warm. This is due to the air bubble between the 
shell and the skin, which in stale eggs is much 
larger than in fresh ones, owing to the evapora- 
tion of the fluids. The eggshell is perforated with 
innumerable small pores, which, though too mi- 
nute to be seen with the naked eye, are large 
enough to permit air entering them, and by taking 
the place of the evaporated fluids causes the decay 
of the egg. 

Many different methods are used to prevent this 
evaporation, and thereby preserve eggs in good 
condition for a long time. The most effectual 
method is by covering the egg with some greasy 
substance. Sometimes they are dipped into melt- 
ed mutton and beef suet, but these are liable to 
become rancid. It would be better to use wax, or 
parafine; even olive oil would answer better. An 
excellent way to preserve eggs is to cover them 
with a solution of gum arable and gelatine. Some 
dealers, I have been told, immerse eggs in oil of 
vitriol diluted with water, with the result that a 



a&Ss, and Row to ISse tbeni. 27 

part of the shell is dissolved in the acid, thus 
forming sulphate of lime, which fills up the pores. 
Great quantities of eggs are preserved by liming. 
These, however, are not fit for boiling as they 
generally have a disagreeable taste. 

The Scotch method of preserving eggs is to 
plunge them into boiling water, heated to 140 
degrees, keep them there five seconds in order to 
coagulate the albumen next to the shell, and 
afterwards rub them with oil or suet. 

"The Chinese fashion of preserving eggs is as 
follows : — They are covered with a paste of quick- 
lime, sea salt and oak ashes, and thus packed 
away for three months in boxes separated by 
each other by rice husks. As a matter of taste 
they are not nice, the white being coagulated and 
the yolks having turned green, while the smell is 
anything but pleasant. " 

A better method of preserving eggs would be 
to pickle them. In England and the United 
States this is done often enough. When eggs are 
plentiful, as in Spring or the early part of Sum- 
mer, they are boiled hard, the shells removed, 
put into earthen jars, and boiling vinegar seasoned 
with whole-pepper, allspice, bayleaves, thyme, 
onions and garlic is then poured over them ; and 
in this way they will keep for quite some time, 
even for years. Thus pickled they form an 
agreeable accompaniment to cold meats. 

The dessication of eggs comes more and more 
into practice. They are prepared in three forms, 



28 eggs, and Bow to lise Cftem. 

the first containing all the principles of the whole 
egg, while the others contain but the yolk or the 
white only. 

It is claimed that dessicated eggs are just as 
palatable and just as nutritious as when in their 
fresh state. If this is really so they would be 
very useful to the traveler and soldier. At the 
present time dessicated eggs are only used by 
bakers and those who have more the point of 
economy than quality in view. 

When eggs are stored away, the small end 
should be uppermost, as the yolk is liable to 
adhere to the shell if they are laid on the side. 

The packing of eggs in bran, wood ashes, or 
salt, is likely to prove unsatisfactory, as the air will 
find its way through these substances to the eggs. 

Eggs should never be packed away in musty 
straw, as it is liable to impart an unpleasant 
flavor to them. This susceptibility of eggs to sur- 
rounding odors can be used to advantage when 
fresh truffles are in season. Eggs placed in con- 
tact with these tubers for forty-eight' hours, will 
absorb the agreeable perfume of the truffle. A 
soft-boiled egg flavored with truffle would delight 
the most exacting of gourmets. 

The mention of soft boiled eggs brings to mind 
the many, seemingly, endless arguments that have 
arisen as to their digestibility. 

According to Dr. Beaumont's Table of Digestion, 
the soft boiled egg requires three hours for diges- 
tion ; the hard egg taking thirty minutes longer. 



€3^6, and Row to Use Cbem. 29 

The reason for this difference in time is that the 
white of the egg, being almost pure albumen, is 
more readily acted upon by the gastric juices 
when it is soft. For this same reason a raw egg 
needs only two hours for digestion. 

Persons of sedentary habits, or those whose 
stomachs are easily affected, should only eat eggs 
that are soft boiled, or poached ; while those for- 
tunate individuals who have plenty of exercise, 
can eat any kind of cooked eggs without fear of 
injuring their digestive powers. 

Raw eggs mixed with sugar and sherry, or 
brandy, are an excellent stimulant and restora- 
tive, and, at the same time, they are slightly 
laxative. Hard eggs, on the contrary, are said to 
cause constipation. On this point. Dr. Mufiett 
must be quoted once more, where he tells in 
quaint language, that " Brassavola reporteth a 
monk to have been made costiff with hard eggs 
that no art was available to give him on stool." 

Johnston, in his Chemistry of Common Life, says: 
"The e.%%, as a whole, is richer in fat than fat 
beef. It is equalled in this respect, among com- 
mon kind of food, only by pork and by eels. It 
is of interest to remark, however, that the white 
of the egg is entirely free from fat, and that 
albumen is a very constipating variety of animal 
food, so that it requires much fat to be eaten with 
it, when consumed in any quantity, in order that 
this quality may be counteracted. It is no doubt 
because experience has long ago proved this in 



30 €S$s, and Row to Use Cl)em. 

the stomach of the people, that 'eggs and bacon' 
have been the popular dish among Gentile nations 
from time immemorial." 

Eggs are certainly very nutritious, as they con- 
tain fourteen parts, in a hundred, of albumen. 
They are therefore, weight for weight, almost as 
valuable for strengthening and tissue making as 
muscular flesh. Eggs are also regarded by many 
as an excellent brain food, owing to the large 
percentage of phosphorus which they contain. A 
story is told of a German scholar who took refuge 
in a barn from the infuriated soldiery. During two 
weeks this man lived on one egg a day, innocent- 
ly furnished by a hen, whose nest was within his 
reach. This shows not only that a man can sub- 
sist on a small amount of nourishment, but also 
that eggs are among the most perfect foods pos- 
sessed by mankind. 

It is true, however, that eggs are not beneficial 
to every one. Some persons of a very delicate 
digestion may find eggs a satisfactory and pleasant 
article of diet, while others far more robust may 
find them extremely hurtful. 

A few figures as to the number of eggs con- 
sumed each year in the United States, will show 
the widespread popularity of the egg as an article 
of food. 

Dr. E. Atkinson, in T/ie Science of Nutrition, 
says, " In our factory boarding houses in Massa- 
chusetts the consumption of eggs per adult is one 
every other day. One egg every other day, at 



€Sjs, and Bow to Use Ct)em. 31 

sixteen and a half cents a dozen, comes to three 
dollars a year per adult. We may compute our 
present population as being equal to fifty million 
adults; fifty million adults, at three dollars each, 
would spend one hundred and fifty million dollars 
a year for eggs." 

Simmonds, in his book. Animal Food Resources 
of the World, says "the &%% traffic of the United 
States is exceedingly large." 

"The aggregate transactions in the City of New 
York are said to amount f8, 000, 000 in value." 

The same authority says that "over 20,000 car- 
loads of live and dressed poultry are carried into 
New York City yearly, and 25,500,000 dozen of 
eggs go to the same market. " " According to the 
best authorities the United States produce nine 
thousand million of eggs annually." 

Figures are facts, and the above, which is far 
from being exaggerated, tends to prove that eggs 
play a greater part in the preservation of mankind 
than many persons are willing to admit. 




FRIAR O'MEARA'S SONG. 

BY FATHER PROUT (rEV. FRANCIS MAHONY). 

Why then, sure it was made by a learned owl, 

The "rule" by which I beg. 
Forbidding to eat of the tender fowl 
That hangs on yonder peg. 
But, rot it! no matter: 
For here on a platter, 
Sweet Margaret brings 
A food fit for kings; 
And a meat 
Clean and neat — 
That's an egg! 
Sweet maid, 
She brings me an egg newly laid! 
And to fast I need ne'er be afraid! 
For 'tis Peg 
That can find me an egg. 

Three different ways there are of eating them; 

First boiled, then fried with salt, — 
But there's a particular way of treating them. 
Where many a cook's at fault: 
For with parsley and flour 
'Tis in Margaret's power 
To make up a dish. 
Neither meat, fowl, nor fish; 
But in Paris they call't 
A neat 
Omelette. 
Sweet girl ! 
In truth, as in Latin, her name is a pearl. 

When she gets 
Me a platter of nice omelettes. 



f,iis, and Row to Use Cbem. 33 

Och! 'tis all in my eye, and a joke, 
To casting a sorrowful yoke; 

Sure, of Dublin-bay herrings a keg, 

And an egg. 
Is enough for all sensible folk! 
Success to the fragrant turf-smoke, 
That curls round the pan on the fire; 
While the sweet yellow yolk 
From the egg-shell is broke 
In that pan. 
Who can, 
If he have but the heart of a man, 
Not feel the soft flame of desire. 
When it burns to a clinker the heart of a friar? 




" There is a best way of doing everything:, 
even if it be to boil an egg." — Emerson, 




PART II. 



ALTHOUGH most cook books contain a large 
number of recipes for the preparation of 
eggs in a variety of styles, yet there are really not 
more than a dozen distinctly different methods of 
cooking eggs ; and they may be classified as fol- 
lows : boiled, poached, mollet ; shirred, or au mi- 
roir; scrambled, fried; in cocottes, or cases; mould- 
ed in timbales; hard, stuffed, cold, omelettes, 
sweet; and a few miscellaneous styles which can 
not be very well specially classified. 

In writing this little book, it has not been my 
intention to produce a long and learned treatise 
upon the art of cookery, but simply to give, in 
the fewest possible words, directions for the proper 
preparation of eggs in any of the above mentioned 
styles. By this means a person, who orders eggs 



36 6SSs> and Row to Use tl)tm. 

prepared in a certain way, can have some idea of 
the manner in which they are made ready for his 
use; and at the same time these directions maybe 
of service to the professional cook by explaining 
briefly the details of preparation in each of the 
widely varying styles of egg cookery. 

As no other article of food offers so much scope 
for the inventive genius of a thoughtful cook as 
the egg, it may be that there is still greater diver- 
sity of styles of preparing it for the table than 
those I have mentioned. If so, I ask the kind in- 
dulgence of such of my readers as may, per- 
chance, know of some excellent way of cooking 
eggs that has not come to my knowledge. 

"To err is human," said the old Latin poet, 
who also hastened to add, "but to forgive is 
divine." 




BoiUd €SSS, 



IN the first part of this book allusion was made 
to the various ways in which eggs can be 
boiled, and it is surprising that, in what is seem- 
ingly so simple a matter, so many questions can 
arise for serious consideration before a final de- 
cision is reached as to which of several methods 
should be adopted. Under circumstances where 
the saving of time is no consideration, and where 
the man who orders his eggs boiled expects to 
get them, as they ought to be, "tender and deli- 
cate," the following method should be employed: 

For six eggs have one quart of boiling water; 
plunge in the eggs and leave them for five to 
eight minutes without boiling. The eggs will 
lower the temperature of the water, and bring it 
to about 1 80°, that is 30° less than the boiling 
point. The whit? will then be of a creamy con- 
sistencey, and more apt to blend with the yolk, 
and also be easier of digestion. 

Another method, commonly adopted in hotel 
and restaurant kitchens, is to plunge the eggs 
into boiling water; and after an immersion of 
two to two and a half minutes the eggs are re- 
garded as very soft; after three to four minutes, 
soft; after five to six minutes, medium; and after 
Qight to ten minutes, hard. 



3S €^s, and Row to lise Cbetn. 

I do not consider this method as the best, 
though hotel and restaurant cooks rely upon it as 
the safes't, in spite of the fact that oftentimes the 
result has been disappointing, even when, watch 
in hand, exactitude in time has been observed. 
Few are aware of the fact that the cause of such 
disappointment is due largely to the freshness of 
the eggs. Mention has been previously made of 
the fact that the fluids of the egg will evaporate 
day by day, leaving greater density to the white 
of the egg, which therefore will coagulate more 
quickly than the white of a fresh laid egg, which 
is very watery in substance. 

Another important factor to be considered in 
boiling eggs is their temperature. Eggs taken 
from an ice box will cool the water much more 
than those that have been in the usual kitchen 
temperature several hours, and the former there- 
fore require longer time to cook than the latter. 
Every cook should adopt a certain system, found- 
ed upon his personal experience in boiling eggs, 
so as to suit the different tastes which he endeav- 
ors to satisfy. 

Still another system of Boiling eggs is to put 
them into a sufficient quantity of cold water and 
cover them. When the water begins to boil, the 
eggs are ready to be served. This, in the writer's 
opinion, is the second best method. 

Eggs can also be steamed, and that method has 
been adopted in a number of hotels. 

Some few years ago a mechanical device for 



egjs, and Row to Use CDem. 39 

correctly timing the boiling of eggs was intro- 
duced into many restaurant and hotel kitchens, 
and was warmly welcomed by many cooks, as it 
relieved them of all blame if the eggs were not 
satisfactorily cooked. It consisted of a wire bas- 
ket with an automatic attachment, by means of 
which the basket came out of the "water when the 
eggs had been in the boiling water the number of 
minutes desired by the person ordering them. 




poacfted gggs. 



POACHED eggs are nothing more nor less 
than eggs boiled without the shell. 

The most important requisite is that the eggs 
should be fresh, as stale eggs will never poach 
well, even if the greatest care is used in handling 
them. 

There are two distinct methods of poaching 
eggs, and that the reader may judge for himself 
which is the more preferable, the recipes for both 
are appended. The first meth-od, in accordance 
with the directions given by most of the French 
authors on the art of cookery, is as follows: 

Have three quarts of boiling water in a shallow 
pan, and for each quart add a tablespoonful of 
vinegar and a teaspoonful of salt. Break three or 
four eggs into the water, just where it is boiling, 
and with a skimmer gently turn the egg so that it 
may take an elongated shape. As soon as the 
eggs are firm take them out with the skimmer, 
and put them into cold water; before serving put 
them, for a few minutes, into hot water again. 

The second method, usually followed in Amer- 
ica and England, is the following : 

Have three quarts of boiling water in a shallow 
pan; salt it slightly, and drop into it three or 
four eggs; do not allow the water to boil any 



€.$$i, and R«w to Use Cl)em. 41 

longer, and leave the eggs in it about three 
minutes, until the white is firm ; then take them 
out, trim them, and serve on toast, or as directed. 

There is very little difference between the above 
two recipes save the omission of vinegar in the 
second one. Many French cooks claim that vine- 
gar possesses the property of giving a good shape 
to the egg while it is being poached. I claim, 
however, and I do so from experience, that vine- 
gar (or verjuice, which was used in bygone days) 
has no other effect than to make the white of the 
egg tough; and, therefore, I prefer the second 
method, as it does not allow the water to boil 
after the eggs are put into it. In this I follow the 
theory of Mattieu Williams, and the result is 
more satisfactory to the cook and more beneficial 
to the eater. 

Poached eggs are often ordered by physicians 
for convalescent patients. In such cases the eggs 
should always be served perfectly plain, without 
sauces or condiments. They are usually served 
on toast, or on crusts of bread shaped like the 
egg. These crusts are scooped out, fried in butter, 
and filled with divers garnishings. Crusts of 
puff-paste can be substituted advantageously for 
those of bread ; they are then shaped into round 
or oval tartlet moulds, according to the taste of 
the cook. 



42 €ggs, and Row to Use Cbcm. 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poches 

d la Agostini — Agostini. 

Eggs served on a bed of plain boiled rice 
surrounded with tomato sauce prepared as 
follows : chop one large onion very fine, and 
smother in olive oil until thoroughly cooked, 
then add six tomatoes which were previously 
peeled, the seeds pressed out and cut in small 
pieces ; when the tomatoes are reduced to a 
pulp add a little rich gravy and a taj)le- 
spoonful of beef extract; season lightly with 
red pepper. 

a V Aigre-doux — with Sour- Sweet Sauce. 

Eggs served on toast; Madeira sauce mixed 
with currant jelly poured over them. 

d, V Ahacienne — Ahacian Style. 

Eggs served on slices of fat goose liver; 
Madeira sauce over them. 

ci V AmMcaine — American Style. 

Cut tomatoes in halves ; squeeze out the seeds ; 
season with salt and pepper; besprinkle with 
butter and bake in the oven, then fill with a 
lobster hash cooked with cream; put the eggs 
on top, and cover with cream sauce. 

a I'Amiral — Admiral's Fashion. 

Fill some crusts, made of puffpaste, with a 
chicken hash and truffles in cream; put the 
poached eggs on top and cover with cream 
sauce. 



€33s, and Row to Use Vnitn. 43 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poch6s 

d I'ArUquin — Harlequin's Fashion. 

Eggs served on toast; cream sauce poured 
over; besprinkle with chopped beeftongue, 
truffles and parsley. 

a V Aurore — Aurora. 

Eggs coverd with half tomato and half cream 
sauce mixed; besprinkle with chopped hard 
boiled yolk of egg. 

a la Bayonnaise. 

Cut round slices of bread and some of pump- 
kin of the same size, just a little larger than 
the poached egg ; fry them both in butter, put 
the pumpkin on the bread and the egg on 
the pumpkin ; pour over a cream sauce mixed 
with puree of onions. 

a la Bayard — Bayard. 

Eggs served on pate de f oie gras toast, covered 
with a garnishing of shredded ham, truffles, 
and mushrooms heated in Madeira sauce. 

a la Bearnaise — with Bearnaise Sauce. 

Eggs served on toast and covered with Bearn- 
aise sauce. 

a la Benedict — Benedict. 

Split and toast some small muffins; put on 
each a nice round slice of broiled ham, and 
on the ham the poached egg ; pour over some 
HoUandaise sauce. 



44 €SS$> and Row to Us« Cbem. 

Poached Eggs— Oeufs Poches 

^ /a Bignon — Bignon. 

Have some light chicken cream forcemeat, 
with which dress (with the aid of a pastry bag) 
some rings on the dish on which the eggs are 
to be served ; cover them with white buttered 
paper, and cook for four or five minutes in a 
slack oven. In the centre of each ring put 
the eggs and pour over a veloute sauce re- 
duced with some good chicken stock and cream 
and besprinkle with chopped tarragon leaves. 

a la Bohimienne — Bohemian Style. 

Eggs served on halves of tomatoes stuffed 
with gooseliver and chopped mushrooms; 
pour over a cream sauce mixed with puree of 
tomatoes. 

h la Boieldieu — Boieldieu. 

Fill some bread crusts with fresh tomatoes 
which were previously pealed, squeezed and 
cut in eighths (or if the tomatoes are large 
still smaller) and cooked in oil until perfectly 
dry; put on each crust an egg and cover with 
veloute cream sauce. 

h la Bonnefoy — Bonnefoy. 

Make a puree of half game and half pate de 
foie gras to which add some chopped truffles; 
heat the pur6e and put in some china cases ; 
serve the poached eggs on top and cover 
with velout6 sauce reduced with game stock. 



£i$s, and Row to Use Cl)em. 4S 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poch€s 

d la Bonvalet — Bonvalet. 

Gut some round slices of bread, fry them in 
clarified butter and place on each a poached 
egg ; cover the eggs with a well-reduced vel- 
out6 sauce; on the outer rim of the crust put 
some Bearnaise sauce mixed with tomato 
pur6e. 

a la Bostonienne — Boston Style. 

Eggs served on small round fish cakes sur- 
rounded with cream sauce. 

au Bouillon — in Broth. 

Eggs served in broth or consomme. 

ct la Bourguignone — Burgundy Style. 

Eggs poached in Burgundy wine and served 
on fried slices of bread; with the remaining 
wine and a little beef extract the sauce is pre- 
pared by thickening it with a little butter 
kneaded with flour. 

d. la BrSant — Brdbant. 

Crusts of pu(ff-paste filled with a pur^e of 
quails and pate de foie gras ; poached eggs on 
top and covered with Maderia sauce. 

h, la Bretonne — Britanny Style. 

Eggs served on oval shaped slices of smoked 
beeftongue heated in Madeira, covered with 
brown sauce mixed with a puree of onions. 
Instead of brown sauce one made of cream 
may be served. 



46 €$gs, and Row to I5se Zi>tm. 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poches 

d la CafS Anglais — Cafd Anglais. 

With a chicken and lobster forcemeat dress 
rings on a dish the same as for eggs d, la 
Bignon; cook them for a few minutes, put 
in the eggs and cover with crayfish sauce. 

d la Cardinal — Cardinal's Fashion. 

Eggs served on toast and covered with lobster 
sauce besprinkled with chopped lobster coral. 

& la Cdlestine — Cdlestine. 

Muffins split and toasted are covered with a 
slice of broiled ham upon which poached 
eggs are laid ; pour over some cream sauce 
mixed with cheese, and gratinate under a 
salamander or in a very hot oven. 

aux Champignons — with Mushrooms. 

Mushrooms sliced and heated in Madeira 
sauce poured over the eggs. 

<J la Chantilly — Chantilly. 

Crusts of bread filled with shredded truffles 
in cream; eggs on top; cream sauce with a 
little beef extract poured over. 

d la Colbert — Colbert Style. 

Eggs on fried slices of bread covered with 
Colbert sauce; or serve in rings of chicken 
forcemeat with the above sauce. 

d la Comtesse — Countess Style. 

Puff-paste crusts filled with asparagus tips; 
eggs on top covered with cream sauce. 



€ jjs, and Bow to Use Cbem. 47 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poches 

d la Crime — with Cream. 

Eggs served on toast and covered with cream 
sauce. 

h la Crime d'Asperges — with Cream of Asparagus. 
Crusts of bread, or of puff-paste, filled with a 
pur6e of asparagus mixed with cream sauce ; 
eggs served on top. 

d la Crime de Celeri — with Cream of Celery. 

Served the same way as the aforegoing; use 
a puree of celery instead of asparagus. 

Sur Create — on Crusts. 

Crusts for poached eggs can be either made 
of plain bread or puff-paste. 
Bread Crusts. — Cut slices of sandwich bread 
about three-eighths of an inch to one inch in 
thickness ; give them an oval shape, or they 
may be cut round ; with a small pointed knife 
make an incision on the top all around the 
border ; then fry in clarified butter ; after the 
crusts are cooled off slightly, take off the cover 
and scoop out all the soft part of the bread; 
this hollow part is generally filled with the 
diverse pur6es, garnishings^ etc. 
Puff-paste Crusts. — Roll out some puff-paste 
trimmings to a thickness of about one-eighth 
of an inch; line with some tartelet moulds 
and fiJl them up with split peas or dried white 
beans; bake in a quick oven from twelve to 
fifteen minutes; take out the peas and beans 
and the crusts are ready for using. 



48 ES^s, and Row to Use Cl)eni. 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poch6s 

d la Cussy — Cussy. 

Bread crusts filled with a ragout of breast erf 
quail, fat goose liver and truffles, all cut in 
squares and mixed with brown sauce; eggs 
on top and covered with veloute cream sauce. 

d. la Daumont — Dauniont. 

Eggs served in chicken forcemeat borders, 
as eggs h la Bignon, and covered with onion 
cream sauce. 

d. la Dauphine — Dauphine. 

Bread crusts filled with asparagus tips; eggs 
on top and Madeira sauce with sliced mush- 
rooms poured over. 

a la Diable — Devilled. 

Eggs on fried slices of bread; devilled sauce 
poured over them. 

a la Dumas — Dumas. 

Eggs covered with horseradish cream sauce, 
besprinkled with grated parmesau cheese and 
a little melted butter; gratinated under the 
salamander or in a hot oven. 

h V Ecarlate — Ecarlate. 

Eggs on slices of smoked or pickled beef- 
tongue and cream sauce. 

aux Ecrevisses — with Crayfish. 

Eggs on toast covered with crayfish sauce, 
mixed with crayfish tails. 



(.$$&, and Row to Use CDent. 49 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poches 

aux Epinards — with Spinach. 

Eggs on a bed of finely chopped and well- 
seasoned spinach, surrounded with a rich 
gravy. 

a V Espagnole — Spanish Style. 

Eggs on a layer of risotto seasoned with on- 
ions, safEron and tomatoes, surrounded with 
tomato sauce. 

a I' Estragon — with Tarragon. 

Rich veal gravy with chopped tarragon leaves 
poured over the eggs. 

a la Florentine — Florence Style. 

Eggs served on artichoke bottoms; cream 
sauce with chicken and mushrooms cut in 
small squares poured over. 

a la Georgette — Georgette. 

Large baked potatoes cut in halves and scooped 
out; put one poached egg in each half and 
cover with a cream sauce mixed with par- 
mesan cheese and melted butter, then gratinate 
under the salamander or in a very hot oven. 

h la Germaine — Germaine. 

Eggs on large-sized fresh mushrooms covered 
with a sauce colbcrt, to which chopped tar- 
ragon leaves are added. 

des Gourmet — Gourmet's Fashion. 

Eggs on pat6 de foie gras toast, covered with 
Bearnaise sauce. 



50 C$5s> and How to Use Cbem. 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poches 

d la Gounod — Gounod. 

Eggs on mushrooms, cooked in oil, and 
covered with a well-reduced and buttered to- 
mato sauce. 

a la Hiloise — Hiloise. 

Puff-paste crusts filled with a ragout of square 
cut truffles, chicken and smoked beeftongue 
in cream; eggs on top with thick tomato 
sauce. 

a. la Hussard — Hussard. 

Halves of tomatoes stuffed with chopped ham 
and mushrooms; eggs on top covered with 
cream sauce. 

a, I'ImpMale — Imperial Fashion. 

Eggs on f oie gras toast ; veloute cream sauce 
over the eggs and besprinkled with shredded 
truffles. 

h, rindienne — Indian Style. 

Eggs on abed of plain boiled rice; cream 
curry sauce surrounding it. 

au Jambon — with Mam. 

Eggs on broiled or fried slices of ham. 

au Jus — with Gravy. 

The best gravy to use with eggs is veal gravy ; 
however, it can be substituted by some other 
kind, and if none at hand some light brown 
sauce, to which a little beef extract is added, 
may be used. 



€S3s> and Row to Use Cbent. 51 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poch^s 

a la Karolyi — Karolyi. 

Eggs on broiled slices of ham, covered with 
tomato sauce, seasoned with Paprika pepper. 

au Lard — with Bacon. 

Eggs served on toast, garnished with broiled 
or fried strips of bacon. 

a la Lyonnaise — Lyonese Style. 

Eggs on artichoke bottoms; brown sauce with 
onion puree poured over. 

a la Magenta — Magenta. 

Eggs on crusts filled with crayfish tails in 
cream; cream sauce, finished with crayfish 
butter, poured over the eggs, garnished with 
asparagus tips. 

en Matelote — Mariners' Fashion. 

Eggs on fried slices of bread; claret sauce 
garnished with small glazed onions and mush- 
rooms poured over them. 

a la Mazarin — Mazarin. 

Halves of tomatoes stuffed with liver force- 
meat mixed with chopped truffles, mush- 
rooms, beef tongue and breast of partridge or 
chicken; eggs on top and brown tarragon 
sauce poured over. 

a la Mornay — Mornay. 

Eggs covered with cream sauce mixed with 
cheese, and then gratinated. 



52 eggs, ana Bou) to Use Cbem. 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poch6s 

a la Moutarde — with Mustard Sauce. 

Eggs served on toast and covered with mus- 
tard sauce. The best mustard sauce for eggs 
would be to mix either some English or 
French mustard with Hollandaise sauce. 

a la Moscovite. 

Eggs on fried slices of bread; cream sauce 
poured over and besprinkled with chopped 
parsley, truffles and lobster coral; garnish 
with small puff-paste cresents filled with 
caviare. 

d la Nationale — National. 

Cream sauce mixed with tomato puree and 
grated cheese, poured over the eggs and then 
gratinated. 

a la Neptune — Neptune. 

Eggs on fried slices of bread, garnished with 
lobster cut in small squares and stewed in 
cream. 

a la Normande — Normandy Style. 

Bread crusts filled with onion puree mixed 
with chopped ham ; eggs on top and tomato 
sauae poured over. 

a la d' Orleans — d' Orleans. 

Forcemeat made with cooked pheasant and 
fat goose liver heated with some thick veloute 
sauce. Borders of the above are dressed on 
the diih, and a poached egg is laid in each; a 
veloute cream sauce reduced with game stock 
poured over. 



€.$$5, and Bow to Use Cbem. 53 

Poached Eggs — Oeuf Poches 

d rOseille—with Sorrel. 

Eggs dished up over a puree of sorrel. 

aux Pointes d'Asperges — with Asparagus Tips. 

Eggs garnished with asparagus tips, previous- 
ly cooked in water and then tossed in butter. 

ct la Portugaise — Portuguese Fashion. 

Halves of tomatoes fried in oil, put on fried 
slices of bread; eggs on top and tomato sauce 
poured over. 

a la Prince EgO'ti — Prince Egon Fashion. 

Cream sauce with truffles and crayfish cut in 
small dice poured over the eggs. 

a la Provenfale — Provencial Fashion. 

Eggs on fried slices of bread ; a thick tomato 
sauce with a supgon of garlic poured over. 

a la pur^e d'Artichauts — with purie of Artichokes. 

d la pur/e d'Asperges — with pur/e of Asparagus. 

a la piir^e de Champignons — with purde of Mushrootns. 

d la pur/e de Gibier — 'with pur/e of Game. 

a la purSe de Lentilles — with pur/e of Lentils. 

d la pur/e de Marrons — with pur/e of Chestnuts. 

d la pur/e de Pois — with pur/e of Peas. 

a la pur/e d' Oignons — -with pur/e of Onions. 

d la pur/e d'Oseille — with pur/e of Sorrel. 



54 €.iSs, and Row to ISse Cbem. 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poches 

d la purie de Tomates — with pur^e of Tomatoes. 

h la purie de Volatile — with pur^e of Chicken. 

Besides the above named purees eggs can be 
served with quite a number of others. The 
purees used for garnishing can either be served 
in bread or puff-paste crusts and the egg served 
on top of these; or, the puree can be put on 
the dish and the eggs laid upon it; however, 
the former way is more elegant and generally 
adopted in first-class houses. 

a la Renan — Renan. 

Garnish some china cases with minced chicken 
in cream ; put a poached egg in each and pour 
over a velout6 cream sauce finished with a 
pur6e of chicory or spinach. 

d, la Rossini — Rossini. 

Eggs on slices of fat gooseliver; truffle sauce 
poured over. 

h la Rothschild — Rothschild. 

Puff-paste crusts filled with a puree of truffles 
and pat6 de foie gras; eggs on top with 
Madeira sauce. 

d la Russe — Russian Fashion. 

Eggs on caviar toast, garnished with bone- 
less anchovies, and surrounded with Madeira 
sauce. 



€$$s, and Row to Use Cbetti. 55 

Poached Eggs— Oeufs Poches 

d la Sagan — Sagan. 

Eggs on fried slices of bread; a cream velout^ 
sauce with curry, garnished with shredded 
chicken and cepes poured over. 
Boiled rice may be served separate. 

h la Sivigni — S^vign^. 

Puff-paste crusts filled with chicken hash and 
truffles in cream ; eggs on top covered with 
cream sauce. 

a la Sicilienne — Sicilian Fashion. 

Eggs on bread crusts filled with puree of 
chicken livers ; tomato sauce poured over. 

a la Soubise — Soubise. 

Eggs on toast ; cream sauce mixed with puree 
of onions poured over. 

a la Stuers — Stuers. 

Eggs on pat6 de foie gras toast ; cream sauce 
with essence of truffles poured over; a glazed 
slice of truffle on each Q%^. 

aux Truffes — with Truffles. 

Eggs on toast, covered either with Madeira 
or ci^am sauce with sliced truffles. 

d, la Turque — Turkish Style. 

Eggs on fried slices of egg plant and tomato 
sauce. 



50 €iis, and Row to Use Cbem. 

Poached Eggs— Oeufs Poches 

d la d' Uxelles — d' Uxelles. 

Eggs on fried slices of bread, covered with a 
sauce made of chopped shallots, mushrooms 
and fine herbs cooked in butter, reduced with 
white wine, finished with half brown, and 
half tomato sauce mixed. 

d, la Valois — Valois. 

Eggs on crusts filled with lobster and truffles 
cooked in cream. Tomato sauce poured over. 

h la V^four — V^four. 

Eggs on tartelet crusts filled with crayfish 
tails stewed in cream ; cream sauce finished 
with anchovy and lobster butter poured over 
the eggs. 

a la V^ron — Viron. 

Artichoke bottoms filled with chopped beef- 
tongue and truffles; eggs on top and covered 
with cream sauce and cheese ; then gratinated. 

h la Victoria — Victoria. 

Bread crusts filled with crab meat cooked in 
cream ; eggs on top covered with cream curry 
sauce finished with lobster butter. 

a la Walter Scott — Walter Scott. 

Eggs on toast, garnished with lobster cut in 
squares and cooked in cream ; tomato sauce 
finished with lobster butter poured over the 
eggs. 



Csss fttom. 



EGGS MOLLET should properly be classified 
among soft-boiled eggs, as is clearly indi- 
cated by the meaning of the word " mol/et." 

In preparing eggs mollet, it is absolutely neces- 
sary that the eggs be very fresh. Plunge them into 
boiling water, cover the vessel they are in, and 
bring it to the corner of the range, not permitting 
the water to boil, and, after an immersion of ten 
minutes, take them out, and put them into cold 
water to cool off. Then take off the shell very 
cautiously, as the eggs being quite soft are liable 
to break. When they are fresh from the shell, 
put them back into clean cold water, and when 
ready to use heat them in water or broth for a few 
minutes. . 

Eggs mollet can also be prepared by cooking the 
eggs for five minutes in boiling water, and then 
proceeding as stated above. 

Eggs mollet are usually served on toast, crusts, 
etc. 



s8 €ggs, and Bow to I5se Cbem. 

Eggs Mollet (soft)— Oeufs MoUet 

h la Bechamel — Bdchamel. 

Eggs on toast ; cream sauce poured over. 

h la Berlioz — Berlioz. 

Mushrooms and breast of partridge cut in 
small squares and stewed in cream; eggs 
served on top. 

h la Bordelaise — Bordeaux Style. 

Eggs on fried slices of bread; Bordeaux sauce 
poured over. 

a la Bourguignone — Burgundy Style. 

Puff-paste crusts filled with scrambled eggs 

with asparagus tips and truffles; an egg 

mollet on each crust. 
d. la Bruxelloise — Brussel Fashion. 

Eggs on fried slices of bread, garnished with 

Brussel sprouts; cream sauce poured over the 

eggs. 
& la Catalane — Catalane. 

Eggs on bread crusts filled with crab meat 

stewed in cream. 
h la Chantilly — Chantilly. 

Eggs on small puff-paste crusts filled with 

puree of onions ; thick tomato sauce over the 

eggs. 
h la Chicor/e — with Chicory. 

Chicory chopped fine, mixed with cream, and 

well seasoned; eggs on top. Serve good rich 

gravy around the chicory. 



€gss, and Bou) to ISse Cbetn. 59 

Eggs Mollet (soft)— Oeufs Mollet 

d la Chasseur — Hunter's Fashion. 

Eggs on a pur^e of chestnuts mixed with 

pur6e of game; Madeira sauce reduced with 

game stock. 
en Demi-deuil — Demi-deuil. 

Eggs covered with cream sauce, besprinkled 

with chopped truffles. 

aux i^crevisses — vaith Crayfish. 

Eggs over crayfish tails stewed in cream. 
aux Epinards — with Spinach. 

Eggs on a bed of spinach chopped fine, mixed 

with cream and well seasoned, surrounded 

with rich gravy. 

a la Frangaise — French Style. 

Eggs on puff-paste crusts filled with a ragout 
of cocks' combs and cocks' kidneys in velout6 
cream sauce. 

h la Garlin — Garlin. 

Eggs on artichoke bottoms; cream sa«ce with 
shredded chicken and truffles poured over. 

a la du Guesclin — du Guesclin. 

Eggs on bread crusts filled with curried lob- 
ster; cream sauce with paprika poured over 
the eggs; chopped truffles, lobster coral and 
parsley sprinkled over. 

d. la Hdoise — Hdoise. 

Eggs on fried slices of ham ; Hollandaise 
sauce with shredded beeftongue and truffles 
poured over the eggs, and around them serve 
a well-reduced tomato sauce. 



6o (.s&s, and Bow to Use Cbem. 

Eggs Mollet (soft)— Oeufs Mollet 

d rindienne — Indian Fashion. 

Eggs on a bed of rice with cream curry sauce. 

a V Italienne — Italian Style. 

Broiled slices of ham on risotto, and eggs on 

the ham; surrd<unded with tomato sauce. 
h la Montebello — Montebello. 

Eggs on pate de foie gras toast; thick Bearn- 

aise sauce mixed with puree of tomatoes 

poured over. 
d. la Montglas — Montglas. 

Eggs on crusts filled with a brown ragout of 

mushrooms, truffles, beeftongue, and chicken 

cut in squares. 
(J la Nantua — Nantua. 

Eggs on crusts, filled with crayfish tails 

stewed in cream. 
h rOseille — with Sorrel. 

Eggs served on a bed of sorrel. 
a V Ostendoise — Ostend Fashion. 

Eggs on crusts, filled with oysters in cream 

sauce. 
a la Parisienne — Parisian Fashion. 

Eggs on artichoke bottoms; cr»am sauce 

with truffles poured over. 

h la Persanne — Persian Fashion. 

Eggs on a bed of plain boiled rice, surround- 
ed with a brown curry sauce with onions, 
ham, and stewed prunes cut in small squares. 



€3Ss> and Row to I5se Cbem. 6i 

Eggs Mollet (soft)— Oeufs Mollet 

a la purde d' Artichauts — with purde of Artichokes. 

a la purSe d' Asperges — with purde of Asparagus. 

a la purde de Celeri — with purde of Celery. 

k la purde de Marrons — with purde of Chestnuts. 

a la purde de Tobinambours — with purde of Girasoles 
or Jerusalem Artichokes. 
Eggs can be served right on the puree; or 
these can be served in crust and eggs on top. 

h la Raphael — Raphael. 

Eggs covered with .anchovy sauce with cray- 
fish tails or lobster cut in squares. 

d, la Ravigote — Ravigote. 

Eggs covered with veloute sauce, finished 
with green butter — (taragon, chervil, parsley, 
etc., parboiled and pounded with butter). 

a la Reine — Queen Style. 

Eggs on crusts filled with puree of chicken ; 
cream sauce. 

cL la Royale — Royal Fashion. 

Eggs on crusts filled with truflBes and beef- 
tongue cut in small squares and stewed in 
cream. 

a la Sidney — Sidney. 

Eggs with cream curry sauce with shredded 
chicken and ham. Rice may be served 
separate. 



62 €sgs, and Row to Use CDent. 

Eggs Mollet (soft)— Oeufs MoUet 

a la Vatel — Vatel. 

Eggs on fried slices of bread, covered with 
cream sauce mixed with shredded mushrooms 
and beeftongue. 

a la Verdi — Verdi. 

Eggs with cream sauce mixed with puree of 
onions. In the centre of eggs serve fresh 
mushrooms sauted in butter. 

a la Zurlo — Zurlo. 

Eggs on flat and oval-shaped potato cro- 
quettes; cream sauce with chopped ham, 
trufHes and parsley around them. 



Scrambled £sss. 



OF all the many ways in which eggs can be 
prepared for the table, there is none 
which, as a rule, is liable to be so unsatisfactory 
as when they are scrambled. In order that a dish 
of scrambled eggs should appear at its best, it 
ought to be served immediately after leaving the 
hands of the cook, as eggs in that form are liable 
to rapid deterioration in tastefulness and quality. 

Some cooks use cream, or cream sauce, to keep 
scrambled eggs in good condition for a reasonable 
period of time. I do not recommend the use of 
sauce unless it be absolutely necessary, as I con- 
sider cream more satisfactory. It should be re- 
membered that the most important point in cook- 
ing eggs is never to overcook them. Scrambled 
eggs, that are dried up when served, are not only 
lacking in tastefulness, but they are also difficult 
of digestion. Here is a recipe that will give satis- 
faction if the directions are strictly followed out : 

Butter a flat saute pan liberally, put into it six 
well beaten eggs, season with salt and pepper, and 
put on the fire. Keep stirring continually with 
an egg whisk, or wooden spoon, until the eggs 
become creamlike in consistency; when they are 
sufficiently done add about two ounces of good 
butter, and serve immediately. If scrambled eggs 



64 eggs, and Bou) to Use Cbem. 

cannot be served as soon as cooked, a little cream, 
about one tablespoonful to two eggs, may be 
added; cooked this way they are more custard- 
like in appearance. 

Oeufs Brouilles — Scrambled Eggs 

aux Anchois — with Anchovies. 

Boneless anchovies cut in small pieces mixed 
with plain scrambled eggs. 

aux Artichauts — with Artichokes. 

Artichokes cut into dices mixed with scram- 
bled eggs. 

h, la d'Aumale — d'Aumale. 

Scrambled eggs with kidneys, garnished with 
small puff-paste crusts filled with thick puree 
of tomatoes. 

ct la Balzac — Balzcu. 

Scrambled eggs with shredded beeftongue 
and truffles, garnished with crusts filled with 
soubise. 

h la Bordelaise — Bordeaux Style. 

Scrambled eggs with fried cubes of bread and 
cepes ; chopped fine herbs added when cooked. 

h la Bretonne— Brittany Style. 

Scrambled eggs served on toast, with minced 
onions in thick brown sauce in the centre. 

^ la Cervelle de Veau — with Calf's Brains. 

Calf's brains cut in cubes mixed with the eggs. 



€jSs> and Row to Use Cbem. 6s 

Oeufs Brouilles — Scrambled Eggs 

aux Champignons — with Mushrooms. 

These can be served either with or without 
sauce. In the first case, if fresh mushrooms 
are used they are cooked in butter and mixed 
with sufficient brown sauce, which must be 
of good consistency; the scrambled eggs are 
dished up and the stewed mushrooms put in 
the centre. If no sauce is required the mush- 
rooms are cut in cubes, cooked in butter and 
mixed with the eggs. 

a la Comtesse Uruska — Countess Uruska Style. 

Scrambled eggs with asparagus tips, and' 
crayfish or lobster cut in cubes, served on 
toast; surrounded with tomato sauce. 

aux Crevettes — with Shrimps. 

Shrimps cut in squares mixed with the eggs. 

en Croustade — in Crusts. 

These crusts can be made either of bread 
or puff-paste. (See with poached eggs. ) 

a la Dieppoise — Dieppe Style. 

Scrambled eggs with oysters and mushrooms, 
served in small puff-paste patties. 

a V Espagnole — Spanish Style. 

Onions, green peppers, ham and tomatoes 
cooked in oil or butter, mixed with the eggs, 
or if preferred, can be dished up in the centre 
of the eggs. 



66 €SJs, and Row to ISse Cbem. 

Oeufs Brouillfes — Scrambled Eggs 

a V Estragon — with Tarragon. 

Tarragon leaves are parboiled, chopped, and 
then mixed with the eggs. 

aux Fines Herbes — with Fine Herbs. 

The professional cook knows of two kinds of 
fine herbs, the raw and the cooked ; the raw 
consists of chopped parsley, chervil and 
chives, sometimes tarragon; the cooked fine 
herbs are prepared with mushrooms, shallots 
and parsley, all chopped fine and cooked in 
butter. 

For scrambled eggs, or omelette with fine 
herbs, the raw herbs are generally used unless 
otherwise specified. 

h la Frangaise — French Style. 

Artichoke bottoms, previously heated in 
broth, are filled with scrambled eggs mixed 
with chopped truffles, sprinkled over with 
grated cheese and melted butter; put in the 
oven for a minute; served with brown sauce. 

au Frontage — with Cheese. 

Plain scrambled eggs, to which, when they 
are cooked, some grated Parmesan or Gruyere 
cheese is added. 



esss, and Row to Use CDeiti. 67 

Oeufs Brouill^s — Scrambled Eggs 

ci la Geo. de Forest Grant — Geo. de Forest Grant. 
Plunge some good sized green peppers into 
very hot fat, so that the outer skin may be 
detached by rubbing with a napkin, cut off 
the stalk end and empty out the seeds, boil 
for about ten minutes, in salted water, and 
then fill them with scrambled eggs; serve 
them upside down with a glazed slice of 
truffles on each, and Madeira sauce on the 
dish. 

au Hareng saur — with Smoked Herring. 

Skinned and boned smoked herring cut into 
small pieces, tossed in butter for a few min- 
utes, and mixed with the eggs. 

aux Huitres — with Oysters. 

The bearded oysters are cooked with a little 
of their own gravy; when cooked, cream 
sauce is added in proportion and dished up 
in the centre of the eggs. 

Or, the soft part of the oysters are cut into 
squares and cooked, the liquid strained and 
the oysters mixed with the eggs. 

au Jambon—with Ham. 

Ham cut in small cubes, fried in butter and 
mixed with eggs. 

au Jus — with Gravy. 

Eggs served on toast, surrounded with good 
veal gravy. 



68 Eiis, and Row to Use ti)tm. 

Oeufs Brouilles — Scrambled Eggs 

d la Livingstone — Livingstone. 

Eggs on toast spread with puree of goose 
liver, or pate de foie gras. 

a la Lyonaise — Lyonese Style. 

Onions minced finely, smothered in butter 
and mixed with the eggs. 

a la Marseillaise — Marseille Style. 

Tomatoes cooked in olive oil, mixed with 
scrambled eggs, which, previously to being 
cooked, were beaten in a bowl rubbed with 
garlic. 

d la Montglas — Montglas Style. 

Truffles, mushrooms, cooked breast of chicken 
and smoked beeftongue, cut in small squares, 
stewed for a few minutes in well reduced 
Madeira sauce, dished up in the centre of the 
eggs. 

d la Mornay — Mortiay Style. 

Mushrooms and shrimps cut in dice, mixed 
with eggs. 

d la Offenbach — Offenbach Style. 

Tunny, crayfish tails and anchovies cut in 
small squares mixed with the eggs, gar- 
nished with small puff-paste crusts filled with 
thick tomato puree. 

aux Oignons — with Onions. 

Eggs mixed with chopped onions previously 
smothered in butter. 



Eggs, and Row to I5s« Cbem. 69 

Oeufs Brouilles — Scrambled Eggs 

d la Orientale — Oriental Style. 

Eggs cooked with anchovy butter dished up 
over tomatoes cut in halves and baked in the 
oven. 

au Pain — with Bread. 

Small squares of fried vsrhite bread, mixed 
with the eggs. (In German-Switzerland this 
dish is called Vogelheu.) 

au Parmesan — with Parmesan Cheese. 

Scrambled eggs mixed with grated Parmesan 
cheese. 

aux Petit Pais — with Green Peas. 

Green peas mixed with the eggs. 

au Petit Said Fumd — with Bacon. 

Thin rashers of bacon cut in small strips, fried 

and mixed with the eggs; or, the bacon may 

be broiled and served as garnishing around 

the eggs. 
aux Piments Verts — with Green Peppers. 

Chopped green peppers cooked in butter and 

mixed with the eggs. 
aux Pointes d'Asperges — with Asparagus Tips. 

Cooked asparagus tips cut small and mixed 

with the eggs. 
a la Princesse — Princess Style. 

Scrambled eggs with truffles, served in crusts 

made of puff-paste; a little veal gravy served 

over the eggs. 



70 €SSs> and Row to lise Cbem. 

Oeufs Brouill6s — Scrambled Eggs 

a la Provengale — Provencial Style. 

Onions and tomatoes smothered in oil, mixed 
with the eggs, and garnished with small stuffed 
mushrooms. 

a la Purde de Celeri — with Pur^e of Celery. 
Eggs mixed with puree of celery. 

a la Heine — Queen Style. 

Cooked breast of chicken and truffles cut in 
very small cubes, mixed with the eggs. Hard 
eggs are hollowed, heated in salted water and 
filled up with the scrambled eggs; served on 
cream sauce. 

a la Ribot — Ribot Style. 

Firm fresh tomatoes are scooped out with the 
vegetable spoon, seasoned and cooked in the 
oven, then filled up with scrambled eggs, 
covered with a nice slice of truffle glazed 
over, and set on light cream sauce. 

h la Caf^ Riche — Cafd Riche Style. 

Eggs with lobster and truffles cut in cubes, 
served on toast; tomato sauce finished with 
lobster butter on the di^. 

au Ris de Veau — with Sweetbread.' 

Sweetbread, previously parboiled, is cut in 
dices and cooked in butter; it may be mixed 
thus with the eggs, or either brown or white 
sauce may be added; if this is done the sweet- 
bread must be dished up in the centre of the 
eggs. 



€g3s, and Roto to Use Cl}tm. yi 

Oeufs Brouilles — Scrambled Eggs 

aux Rognons — with Kidneys. 

Veal or lamb kidneys, cut in cubes, cooked 
in very hot butter over a brisk fire. When 
sufficiently cooked they are put into a well 
reduced Madeira sauce and dished up in the 
centre of the eggs. The kidneys should not 
be allowed to boil in the sauce, nor should 
they be overdone lest they become tough and 
indigestible. 

aux Rognons et Champignons — with Kidneys and 
Mushrooms. 
Same as above with the addition of mush- 
rooms. • 

au Saumon Fumi — with Smoked Salmon. 

Smoked salmon cut into thin strips, cooked 
in butter for a few minutes and mixed with 
the eggs. 

d, la Suisse — Swiss Style. 

Gruy^re cheese cut in small cubes, mixed 
with the eggs when they are done. 

aux Tomatoes — with Tomatoes. 

Fresh tomatoes are peeled and the seeds 
pressed out, then cut in small pieces and 
cooked with butter and mixed with the eggs. 



72 €jgs, and Row to Use CDem. 

Oeufs Brouill6s — Scrambled Eggs 

aux Truffes — with Truffles. 

These can be served like scrambled eggs with 
mushrooms, either with or without sauce; 
truffles are cut into cubes, and if served with 
sauce, put into Madeira sauce and dished 
up in the centre of the eggs; the other way 
the truffles are mixed with the eggs, and nice 
slices of glazed truffles are laid on top of 
them. 

a r Union Club — Union Club Style. 

Pimentos morrones, or red sweet peppers, are 
heated in salt water and filled up with scram- 
bled eggs and truffles; Madeira sauce on the 
dish. 




Sbirrca gsss (Oeufs sur le piat)— 

MANY persons have asked the writer what 
the difference is between shirred eggs and 
eggs au miroir. According to the modern school 
of cookery, the difference is as follows: shirred 
eggs are cooked in a small china dish, especially- 
made for the purpose, and are served therein; 
while eggs au miroir are also cooked in the same 
kind of dish, but when done they are cut with a 
round paste cutter, and served either on toast, 
crusts, or the garnishing directly. These are the 
teachings of the overrefined modern school. In 
the good old days no difference was made between 
a shirred egg and an egg au miroir. 

In cooking shirred eggs, butter the dish lightly, 
break into it either three or four eggs, pour hot 
melted butter over the yolks, and cook in a slow 
oven for a few minutes, until the yolk looks as 
though it was covered with a veil. 

The seasoning of eggs, if no sauce accompanies 
them, should be left to the eater, as salt and 
pepper destroy the beauty of a well cooked egg. 

The following description of garnishings can 
be adapted to either shirred eggs on the dish 
directly, or eggs cut out and served on toasts. 



74 €g$s, and Row to Use Cbctn. 

Shirred Eggs (Oeufs sur le Plat) — Oeufs 
au Miroir 

a I'aigre doux — with Sweet- Sour Sauce. 
(See poached eggs.) 

a V Alsacienne — Alsatian Style. 

Slices of boiled salt pork on the dish, grated 
Gruyere cheese sprinkled over; eggs broken 
on top covered with a little thick cream and 
cooked for a few minutes in a slow oven. 

aux Anchois — with Anchovies. 

Chopped anchovies on the dish, eggs over 

them. 

h r Anglaise — English Fashion. 

Broiled strips of bacon on the dish, eggs 
over them, or the eggs may be cooked plain 
and the bacon served on top. 

CI. la Bayonnaise — Bayonne Style. 

Slices of ham on the dish, eggs on top ; when 
cooked cover with tomato sauce. 

cL la Bercy — Bercy. 

Eggs cooked plain, garnished with small 
sausages and tomato sauce. 

au Beurre noir — luith brown (black) Butter. 

Eggs cooked plain, brown butter poured over. 
Brown Butter : put two ounces of butter in a 
frying-pan, turn the latter gently until the 
butter becomes brown, then add atablespoon- 
ful of vinegar. 



€SSs, and Row to I5sc Cbetn. 75 

Shirred Eggs (Oeufs sur le Plat) — Oeufs 
au Miroir 

aux Champignons — with Mushrooms. 

Eggs cooked plain, garnished with mush- 
rooms cut in squares and stewed in Madeira 
sauce. 

& la Chipolata — Chipolata. 

Eggs cooked plain, garnished with chestnuts 
cooked in broth, glazed small onions, small 
sausages, and Madeira sauce. 

d, la Colbert — Colbert. 

Eggs cooked plain, covered with Colbert 
sauce. 

d. la Crime — with Cream. 

Good thick cream on the dish, eggs broken 
into the same, and cooked in a slow oven. 

h la Crdole — CrMe Style. 

Ham cut in small squares, onions, green pep- 
pers and mushrooms sliced and all smothered 
in butter, fresh tomatoes peeled, squeezed and 
cut in quarters, and a little beef extract are 
added, and the whole cooked for 15 minutes; 
put this on the dish, break the eggs over it, 
and cook in a slow oven. 

d, la Derby — Derby. 

Eggs cooked plain, garnished with fat goose 
liver, and mushrooms cut in squares, with 
brown sauce. 



76 €.$is, and Row to Use CDent. 

Shirred Eggs (Oeufs sur le Plat)— Oeufs 
au Miroir 

d la Diable — Deviled. 

Eggs cooked plain, deviled sauce poured over. 

a r Etudiante — Student's Fashion. 

Eggs cooked plain, garnished with stewed 
kidneys and truffles in thick tomato sauce. 

a la Fermiire — Farmer' s Fashion. 

Eggs cooked plain, garnished with chicken 
livers stewed with onions and mushrooms. 

a la Gouffd — Gouffe. 

Same as a la Crime, with the addition of 
grated Parmesan cheese. 

au Jambon ou Lard — with Ham or Bacon. 

Fried or broiled slices of ham or bacon on 
the buttered dish, eggs broken on top, and 
cooked in a slow oven. 

a la Jockey Club — Jockey Club Style. 

Eggs cooked plain, garnished with veal kid- 
neys, mushrooms, and truffles cut in squares 
and stewed in Madeira sauce. 

a la Jules Janin — Jules Janiii. 

Eggs on slices of fat goose liver with tomato 
sauce. 

au Jus — with Gravy. 

Eggs cooked plain, with rich gravy poured 
over when done. 



€S3s, and Row to Use Cbeni. 77 

Shirred Eggs (Oeufs sur le Plat)— Oeufs 
au Miroir 

a la Lorraine — Lorraine Fashion. 

Same as h la Crime, with the addition of 
chives and grated cheese. 

a la Meyerbeer — Meyerbeer. 

Eggs cooked plain, with broiled lamb's kid- 
neys and truffle sauce. 

a la Montagnarde — Mountaineer s Fashion. 

Eggs garnished with stewed veal, kidneys, 
mushrooms, and small sausages in Madeira 
sauce. 

a la Montargis — Montargis. 

Eggs around a ragout of shredded chicken 
livers (previously cooked), mushrooms, and 
beef tongue, mixed with thick cream sauce, 
besprinkled with cheese and gratinated ; when 
done a little tomato sauce is poured around 
the eggs. 

a la Mousquetaire — Musketeer Fashion. 

Eggs garnished with finely sliced lamb's kid- 
neys and onions in cream. 

ci la N^gus — Ndgus. 

Eggs garnished with small chicken or game 

croquettes and truffle sauce. 
aux Oignons — with Onions. 

Sliced onions smothered in butter are put on 

the dish, or the eggs are cooked plain and 

onion sauce is served with them. 



78 €$Ss, and Row to Use Cbem. 

Shirred Eggs (Oeufs sur le Plat) — Oeufs 
au Miroir 

a la Omer Pacha- — Omer Pacha. 

Sliced onions and quartered tomatoes cooked 
together in butter are put on the egg dish, 
the eggs broken on top, and cooked in a slow 
oven. 

au Parmesan — with Parmesan Cheese. 

The grated cheese is strewn on the buttered 
egg dish and also some over the eggs, and 
then cooked in a slow oven. 

a la Provengale — Provencial Fashion. 

Eggs garnished with halves of tomatoes 
cooked in oil. 

a la Reine — Queen Style. 

Eggs garnished with breast of chicken, mush- 
rooms and truffles cut in small squares and 
stewed in cream. 

a la Rossini — Rossini. 

Eggs garnished with slices of fat goose liver 
and truffle sauce. 

aux Sardines — with Sardines. 

Sardines are skinned, split and boned and 
put on the dish, the eggs broken on top, and 
cooked in a slow oven. 

aux Saucisses — with Sausages. 

Eggs cooked plain, garnished with small sau- 
sages. 



€SS$> and Bow to l$s« Cbeni. 79 

Shirred Eggs (Oeufs sur le Plat) — Oeufs 
au Miroir 

aux Tomates — with Tomatoes. 

Eggs garnished with tomatoes stewed in 
butter. 

d, la Turbigo — Turbigo. 

Eggs garnished with small broiled sausages 
and Bordelaise sauce. 

a la VMtienne. 

Anchovies and sweet peppers are cut in small 
squares, mixed with tomatoes stewed in butter 
and put on the dish; eggs broken on top 
and cooked in a slow oven. 




frm gsss. 



THERE are two distinctly different methods 
of frying eggs, one of which may be termed 
the French, and the other the English or Ameri- 
can method. 

The French cook includes under the head of 
frying, anything that is immersed and cooked in 
very hot fat, either oil, lard or butter; while the 
English and American cooks apply the term to 
anything that is cooked with the aid of a fatty 
substance. A French cook, to whom the English 
or American customs are unknown, will, there- 
fore, when asked to serve a fried egg, plunge the 
egg into a large quantity of fat, similar to the 
way eggs are poached in water. The English or 
American cook would simply melt a little butter 
in a frying-pan, break the eggs into it, and cook 
them only on one side; or, as many do, when 
cooking ham, or bacon and eggs, cook the meat 
first and then fry the eggs in the remaining fat. 

In addition to those two ways, poached eggs or 
eggs mollet can also be fried; they simply need to 
be breaded with beaten eggs and bread crumbs, 
and then be immersed in some hot fatty substance. 

It lies with the cook, or the consumer, to have 
the eggs fried just as his taste directs. The gar- 



€S$s, and Row to Use Cl)em. 8i 

nishings described later on can, with few excep- 
tions, be adapted to any way in which eggs are 
fried. 

RECIPES FOR FRYING EGGS. 

First or French method: Put a half pint of olive 
oil, lard or clarified butter into a frying-pan and 
place over a good fire; when hot, break gently 
one by one (without bursting the yolk) into the 
pan ; with a wooden spoon turn the white gently 
over the yolk, so as to envelop the latter. When 
sufficiently cooked, take the egg out with a skim- 
mer, and put it on a napkin so that the latter 
may absorb all the fat, then turn the egg, and 
place over the garnishing. It is always best to 
fry only one egg at a time. 

Second method: Melt one ounce of butter in a 
frying-pan, and when it begins to hiss break into 
it, gently, three or four eggs, scald the yolk with 
a little hot melted butter, and cook in a slow 
oven for two or three minutes. 

The second method is the one most commonly 
followed by our domestic cooks. Many persons, 
who have an aversion to fried food, can eat eggs 
fried in this way, when it would be impossible 
for them to do so if the eggs were fried according 
to the first, or French method. 



82 ms, and Row to Use Cbem. 

Fried Eggs — Oeufs Frits 

A la Anglaise — English Fashion. 

Eggs on fried or broiled ham or bacon. 

a la Bayonnaise — Bayonne Fashion. 

Eggs on broiled Bayonne ham, tomato sauce 
over the ham. 

h la Bdrenger — Birenger. 

Artichoke bottoms covered with stewed toma- 
toes, an egg fried in oil on each artichoke and 
between each egg a small slice of broiled 
ham. 

a la Bordelaise — Bordeaux Fashion. 

Eggs on Bordeaux sauce garnished with mar- 
row and mushrooms. 

h la Condd — Condd. 

Eggs on a puree prepared of ^ haricots, 
beans, and yi spinach; broiled ham as garn- 
ishing. 

h la Creole — Creole Style. 

Eggs on sauce as prepared for '^Shirred Eggs 
d. la Creole. " 

h I ' Espagnole — Spanish Style. .^ 

Slices of bread are dipped in beaten egg and 
fried in oil, the ham also fried in oil is put 
on the bread, the eggs on the ham ; tomato 
sauce is poured over the whole. 

aux Epinards — with Spinach. 

Eggs served on a bed of chopped spinach. 



€Sgs, and Bow to Kst Cbem. S3 

Fried Eggs— Oeufs Frits 

d I'huile — in Oil. 

Eggs fried in oil. 

au Jambou — with Ham. 
Eggs served on ham. 

a la Jules Janin — Jules Janin. 

Eggs on Pat6 de foie gras toast; tomato 
sauce poured over. 

d, la Proven(ale—Provencial Fashion. 

Egg fried in oil, served on halves of tomatoes 
baked in the oven ; tomato sauce with a 
supgon of garlic on the dish. 

a la R^forme — Reform. 

Eggs fried in oil served on a garnishing of 
shredded truffles, mushrooms, beef tongue, 
gherkins and the white of a hard boiled egg, 
stewed in brown sauce mixed with a little red 
currant jelly. 

Fried Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poches, Frits 

h. la Cdcile — Cecil. 

Poached eggs dipped into beaten eggs and 
fresh bread crumbs, then plunged into very 
hot fat for one minute and a half; tomato 
sauce finished with lobster butter served 
separate. 

d. la Colbert — Colbert. 

Eggs cooked as above, served with Colbert 
sauce. 



84 €.i&s, and Row to Use tbem. 

Fried Poached Eggs— Oeufs Poches, Frits 

d la Montebello — Montebello. 

Eggs prepared as "<J la CMlej" Bearnaise 
sauce mixed with puree of tomatoes served 
separate. 

a la Villeroi — Villeroi. 

Poached eggs coated with Villeroi sauce. 
When very cold they are rolled into fresh 
bread crumbs and then dipped in beaten eggs, 
rolled once more in bread crumbs and then 
fried in very hot fat ; served with tomato or 
Bernaise sauce. 

Villeroi Sauce : Reduce some veloute sauce 
with rich veal stock and some cream, until of 
good- consistency, thicken with a few egg 
yolks and pass through a sauce towel ; when 
cold use for the eggs. Villeroi sauce must 
be gelatineous or else it will not become firm 
when cold; we therefore recommend the use 
of veal stock. 



~J^I^*^^*'\^" 



tSSs in C^<^^Jte$ or (ases. 

THE preparation of eggs in cocottes, or in 
cases, is entirely the same, the difference be- 
ing merely in the cocottes or cases themselves. 
Cocottes have, generally, the shape of a small sauce- 
pan, deep enough to contain one e^^ and the 
garnishing. They are made of porcelain, and 
have a handle attached ; however, there are some 
of different shapes and designs. Cases are made 
either of paper or porcelain; if the former are 
used they should be slightly oiled on the outside, 
and dried for a few minutes in a slow oven. This 
is done to make them resist the humidity. To 
handle cases easier when serving them to guests, 
they should be put in silver stands similar to 
those in which the glasses containing soda water 
are served. 

-Eggs cooked in china cases, or cocottes, should 
be put in a pan surrounded with water ; they re- 
quire to be in the oven from six to ten minutes, 
according to the heat and the preparation. 

In many recipes the cocottes, or cases, are lined 
with a coating of forcemeat; and these certainly 
require longer time to cook than those where 
only a garnishing is laid on the bottom. 



86 €$$s, and Row to lise Cbetn. 

Eggs in Cocottes— Oeufs en Cocottes 

(t la Bedford — Bedford. 

The cocottes are lined with liver forcemeat 
leaving a hollow space in the centre in which 
the raw egg is broken ; they are cooked in the 
oven for eight to ten minutes, and before 
serving, besprinkled with chopped beeftongue 
and truffles. 

a la Cherbourg — Cherbourg Style. 

The cocottes are lined with fine fish forcemeat 
and mixed with chopped truffles and lobster, 
the eggs are put in the centre and cooked 
in the oven ; when done a little tomato sauce 
is poured on the top. 

a la Crime au Gratin — Baked in Cream. 

A spoonful of thick cream is put on the bot- 
tom of the cocotte, the egg broken into it, 
seasoned with salt and pepper, and covered 
with more cream, and then cooked in the oven 
from six to eight minutes. 

a la Criole — Criole Style. 

See Shirred Eggs a la CrMe. 

aux Fines Herbes Cuites — with Cooked Fine Herbs. 
Chopped shallots and mushrooms are cooked 
in butter, when done a little chopped parsley 
and chervil is added, this is put on the bot- 
tom of the cocottes, the eggs broken on top 
and cooked in the oven ; when done a little 
rich gravy may be poured over the eggs. 



es^s, and Bow to I5se Cbetn. 87 

Eggs in Cocottes — Oeufs en Cocottes 

d, la Gouffe- — Gouffe. 

Same as "Cocottes h la Crime au Gratinj" in- 
stead of sweet cream sour cream is used, and 
the eggs besprinkled with grated cheese. 

a V Italienne — Italian Style. 

Chopped shallots, onions and mushrooms are 
cooked in butter and reduced with white 
wine, half brown and half tomato sauce is 
added and cooked for a while; this sauce is 
put on the bottom of the cocottes, the eggs on 
top and cooked in the oven for six or seven 
minutes. 

a la Leontine — Leontine. 

Cocottes are lined with fish forcemeat mixed 
with crayfish tails and truffles cut in small 
squares, eggs broken into the centre, cooked 
in the oven, and when done covered with 
tomato sauce. 

a la Marly — Marly. 

Two spoonfuls each of chopped crayfish tails 
or lobster, chopped mushrooms and bread- 
crumbs are mixed with one ounce of butter 
and two yolks of eggs so as to form a smooth' 
paste, season well, and with this line some 
cocottes and break an egg into the centre 
of each; cook in the oven and cover with a 
little cream sauce before serving. 



ss e$ss, and Row to ISse CDent. 

Eggs in Cocottes — Oeufs en Cocottes 

a la Reine — Queen's Fashion. 

Breast of cooked chicken, mushrooms and 
truiHes are cut into small squares, mixed with 
cream sauce and put on the bottom of the 
cocottes, the eggs on top; cooked in the oven 
for six to seven minutes. 

a la Victoria — Victoria. 

Lobster, mushrooms and truffles cut into 
small squares are mixed with cream sauce 
finished with lobster butter; this is put on the 
bottom of the cocottes, eggs on top and 
cooked in the oven ; when done covered with 
tomato sauce. 

Eggs in Cases — ^Oeufs en Caisses 

a la Bonnefemme — Bonnefemme. 

Prepare a paste of two spoonfuls each of fresh 
bread crumbs and cooked fine herbs, two 
yolks of eggs and one ounce of butter; line 
the cases with this mixture, leaving a hollow 
space in the centre, break one egg into each 
and cook in the oven from eight to ten min- 
utes; when done' garnish with finely-cut an- 
chovy fillets. 

a la Carola — Carola. 

Cases are lined with cream chicken force- 
meat mixed with shredded mushrooms and 
beeftongue, the eggs broken into the centre 
and cooked in the oven; when done they 
are besprinkled with chopped trulHes. 



€g$s, and Bow to Use Chetn. 89 

Eggs in Cases — Oeufs en Caisses 

a la Colbert — Colbert. 

The cases are lined with chicken forcemeat 
mixed with chopped truffles, the eggs put in 
the centre and cooked in the oven ; when 
done covered with Colbert sauce. 

aux Crevettes — with Shrimps. 

Shrimps cut in squares and stewed in cream 
are put on the bottom of the cases and the 
eggs on top ; cooked from six to eight min- 
utes. 

a la Czarine — Czarina Style. 

Cases lined with game forcemeat and chopped 
truffles, eggs in the centre; when cooked 
covered with brown sauce reduced with game 
stock. 

aux Ecrevisses — with Crayfish. 

Prepared in the same manner as "with 
Shrimps." 

(J la Edison — Edison. 

Cases lined with chicken forcemeat mixed 
with puree of goose liver; on the bottom of 
the case comes a layer of brown truffle sauce, 
the egg on top of it and covered with the rest 
of the forcemeat; cooked in a slow oven; 
when done glazed over with beef extract. 



go €S$s, and Row to Use Chem. 

Eggs in Cases — Oeufs en Caisses 

atcx Huitres — with Oysters. 

The soft part of oysters is cut in two and 
stewed in cream sauce; this is put on the bot- 
tom of the cases, the &^^ broken over it and 
cooked in the oven. 

a la Jaure's — Jaures. 

Ham, truffles and crayfish tails cut in small 
squares, stewed in Madeira sauce, put on the 
bottom of the cases, eggs over it and covered 
with a little lobster butter; when cooked a 
glazed slice of truffle is laid on each egg. 

a la Lorraine — -Lorraine Style. 

Eggs in cream mixed with grated cheese and 
chives. 

a la Lucullus — Lucullus. 

Puree of foie-gras mixed with chopped 
truffles on the bottom of the cases, eggs 
broken on top, and when cooked covered 
with Madeira sauce. 

a la Marignan — Marignan. 

The cases are lined with chicken forcemeat 
mixed with chopped mushrooms, fresh bread 
crumbs, yolks of eggs and butter; eggs are 
put in the centre, and when done besprinkled 
with chopped beeftongue and truffles. 



€3gs, and Row to l$s« Cbem. gi 

Eggs in Cases — Oeufs en Caisses 

d la Monte Carlo — Monte Carlo Style. 

Chopped truffles and mushrooms mixed with 
a little beef extract put on the bottom of the 
cases, eggs broken on top, and when cooked 
covered with slices of truffles glazed over. 

a la Montfort — Montfort. 

The cases are lined with fish forcemeat mixed 
with chopped lobster, eggs broken into the 
centre, and when cooked covered with lob- 
ster sauce. 

a la purde de Tomate — with purde of Tomatoes. 

The eggs are broken on a layer of puree of 
tomatoes, and when cooked covered with 
another layer of the same puree. 

au Ris de Veau — with Sweetbread. 

Sweetbread cut in squares and stewed in 
cream put on the bottom of the cases, eggs 
on top, and when done covered with a little 
cream sauce. 

aux Truffles — with Truffles. 

Truffles cut in squares mixed with Madeira 
sauce put on the bottom of the cases, eggs 
on top, and when done covered with a slice 
of truffle glazed over. 

a la Vatel — Vatel. 

Sweetbread and truffles cut in squares mixed 
with pur6e of tomatoes ; eggs broken on top 
and covered with thick cream; besprinkle 
with breadcrumbs and cook in the oven. 



THE term timbale, in cookery, is applied to any- 
thing having the shape of a small goblet ; the 
meaning, however, has been greatly extended in 
the course of time, so much so, indeed, that many 
moulds of different shapes are termed timbales. 

The preparation of eggs moulded in timbales re- 
quires the same treatment as for eggs in cocottes, 
or eggs in cases, with this difference only, that 
they are not served iji moulds, but are turned out 
upon the dish or plate, retaining the form of the 
mould. 

Eggs prepared in this manner should always 
be cooked in the bainmaire or water bath. 

Eggs Moulded in Timbales — Oeufs 
Moulds en Timbales 

a V ArUquin — -Harlequin Fashion. 

Buttered timbale moulds are besprinkled 
with chopped beeftongue, truffles and pars- 
ley, and then lined with a thin layer of 
chicken forcemeat, an &^^ broken in the 
centre, and cooked in the oven from six to 
eight minutes; served on tomato sauce. 



€$Ss, and l^ow to Use them. 93 

Eggs Moulded in Timbales — Oeufs 
Moul6s en Timbales 

^ la Cardinal — Cardinal Style. 

Buttered timbale moulds besprinkled with 
chopped lobster coral, an egg broken in each, 
and cooked for six minutes; served with lob- 
ster sauce. 

a la Colbert — Colbert. 

Buttered timbale moulds, fancifully decor- 
ated with truffles, are lined with a thin layer 
of chicken forcemeat; eggs in the centre; 
cooked as usual and served with Colbert 
sauce. 

b, la Comtesse — Countess Fashion. 

Timbale moulds are lined as d, la Colbert, and 
filled with scrambled eggs with asparagus 
tips, cooked just long enough until the force- 
meat is done ; served on veloute cream sauce. 

d, la Coquelicot — Coquelicot. 

Parboiled sweet red peppers are put into 
buttered timbale moulds so that they adopt 
the shape of the mould, eggs broken into 
them and cooked as usual ; served with cream 
sauce. 

h la Henri IV. — Henry IV. 

Eggs cooked in moulds and served with Ber- 
naise sauce. 



94 esss, and Boiu to Use Cbent. 

Eggs Moulded in Timbales— Oeufs 
Moules en Timbales 

a la Maintenon — Maintenon. 

Moulds besprinkled with chopped beef- 
tongue, truffles and parsley; eggs cooked as 
usual ; served with truffle sauce. 

a la Mardchale — Mar^chale. 

Timbale moulds buttered with anchovy but- 
ter, one &%,%, and the yolk of one e.^% put in 
each mould, cooked very soft and served 
with anchovy sauce. 

h la Polignac — Polignac. 

Timbale moulds besprinkled with chopped 
truffles; eggs cooked as usual; served with 
Hollandaise sauce. 

a la purie d'Asperges — with purie of Asparagus. 

d. la purSe de Marron — with purde of Chestnuts. 

d. la purde de Tomates — with purde of Tomatoes. 

Eggs moulded in timbales can be served with 
a, great variety of pur6qs; the moulds can be 
decorated according to the eaters or the cook's 
own taste. 
The pur6e is served under the eggs. 

h la Scobeleff — Scobeleff. 

Eggs cooked in moulds and served with rich 
taragon gravy. 



para gsss. $tuma ggss. 
O^^ €sss. 

IN order that eggs should be properly hard 
boiled, they should be put into boiling water 
and allowed to remain there ten minutes, and 
then cooled off in cold water. If cooked longer 
than ten minutes the yolk will acquire a blackish 
tint, and the white will exhale a disagreeable 
odor. A peculiar fact, which few persons are 
aware of, is that eggs which are cooked and 
cooled off, and then prove to be not sufficiently 
done, cannot be cooked any more if put back 
again into the boiling water. Hard boiled eggs 
can be kept a long time without decomposing, 
and they are therefore a very handy article of 
food for travelers. 

Stuffed eggs are usually prepared from hard 
eggs; the yolk is taken out and mixed with some 
sauce and other ingredients, and then put back 
into the egg. 

Eggs cooked in any style can be eaten when 
cold, though hard boiled eggs are most common- 
ly eaten in that way. 



96 €Sds, ana Bow to Use Cbem. 

Hard Eggs— Oeufs Durs 

^ r Aurore — Aurora. 

Hard eggs, of which the yolk is retained, are 
cut in slices and mixed with cream sauce, put 
into a dish and besprinkled with the yolks 
which are squeezed through a wire sieve, and 
some melted butter; put in the oven for a few 
minutes and served before they are browned 
too much. 

a la Bechamel — Bdchamel. 

Hard eggs cut lengthwise in four; cream 
sauce poured over and gratinated. 

h la Bernardine — Bernardine. 

Hard eggs cut in slices and covered with cray- 
fish sauce mixed with pur6e of onions. 

a la Chicor^e — with Chicory. 

Hard eggs cut in quarters, served on a bed of 
chicory, surrounded with rich gravy. 

En Coquille — in Shells. 

Most of the different styles in which hard 
eggs are cooked can be served in shells; this 
way of serving them is especially recom- 
mendable to facilitate the service. 

h la Dreux — Dreux. 

Sliced hard boiled eggs mixed with cream 
sauce and garnished with sliced truiBes, 
mushrooms and ham, put in shells and grati- 
nated. 



esss, and Bow to lise Cl)em. 97 

Hard Eggs — Oeufs Durs 

aux Epinards — with Spinach. 

Hard eggs cut lengthwise in quarters on a 
bed of chopped spinach surrounded with rich 
gravy. 

a la Hongroise — Hungarian Fashion. 

Same as "£ggs ti la Tripe," with the addition 
of fine herbs and Paprika pepper. 

h. I' Indienne — Indian Style. 

Eggs cut in halves on a bed of boiled rice 
surrounded with cream curry sauce. 

^ la Mattre d'BStel—Maitre d'Hdtel. 

Hard eggs cut in slices arranged on a dish 
and covered with maitre d'hotel butter. 

a la Mathurin — Mathurin. 

Hard eggs cut in slices, arranged on a dish 
by layers, alternated with the soft part of oys- 
ters cooked in white wine, and sliced onions 
smothered in butter and mixed with matelote 
sauce. 

ci la Norfolk — Norfolk Fashion. 

Hard eggs cut lengthwise in halves, dipped 
into beaten eggs and rolled in fresh bread 
crumbs, fried in hot fat and served with 
piquant sauce. 

aux Nouilles A la Italienne — with Noodles, Italian 
Fashion. 
Border of noodles with hard eggs cut in 
quarters and covered with tomato sauce in 
the centre. 



g8 Ei$s, and l70w to ISse Cbem. 

Hard Eggs — Oeufs Durs 

a V Oseille- — with Sorrel. 

Eggs cut in quarters on a bed of sorrel sur- 
rounded with rich gravy. 

a la Religieuse — Nun's Fashion. 

Hard eggs cut in slices, covered with butter 
mixed with cheese and lightly gratinated. 

a la Robert — Robert. 

Hard eggs cut in quarters with onions and 
mustard sauce. 

a la Soubise — Soubise. 

Eggs cut in quarters served with cream onion 
puree. 

a la Tripe- — as Tripe. 

Minced onions are lightly smothered in but- 
ter and mixed with cream sauce; hard eggs 
cut in slices added to it and heated without 
boiling. 

Stuffed Eggs (hard) — Oeufs Farcis 

a V Allemande — German Fashion. 

Eggs cut in halves, the yolk taken out and 
mixed with a stuffing" prepared with bread 
soaked in milk ; two whole eggs and the 
yolk of three raw ones, seasoned with pepper, 
salt, and nutmeg; the eggs are stuffed with 
this mixture, the rest is diluted with cream 
and put on a dish, the eggs on top, besprinkled 
with bread crumbs and melted butter and 
baked in the oven. 



€3^5, and Row to Use Cbem. 99 

Stuffed Eggs (hard) — Oeufs Farcis 

d la d'Ann/cy — d' Annecy. 

Eggs cut in halves, the yolks cut up and 
mixed with chopped onions and mushrooms 
previously cooked in butter, some raw yolk 
of egg is added, and the mixture put back in 
the eggs and gratinated ; serve with cream 
sauce. 

a la Bennet — Bennet. 

Eggs cut in halves or in the shape of a barrel, 
the yolk taken out and mixed with chopped 
anchovies, fine herbs and some cream sauce; 
the eggs are filled with this and put on a shir- 
red egg dish, besprinkled with bread crumbs 
and melted butter; baked in the oven. 

h la Carmelite — Carmelite. 

Eggs stuffed with onions, parsely, sorrel, and 
the chopped yolks, baked in the oven. 

aux Champignons — with Mushrooms. 

Mushrooms cut in small squares, mixed 
with the chopped yolks of eggs and some 
white sauce; the eggs stuffed with this mix- 
ture, dipped in beaten eggs and rolled in 
bread crumbs and fried in hot fat. 

'7 la Chassevr^Hvnter s Fashion. 

Eggs stuffed with game forcemeat; served 
with brown sauce. 



TOO eggs, and Bow to Use tDem. 

Stuffed Eggs (hard) — Oeufs Farcis 

a la Comtesse — Countess Style. 

Eggs cut lengthwise in halves, the yolk taken 
out and pounded with cooked chicken, some 
butter and a little cream sauce; baked in the 
oven, and served over a pur^e of cauliflower. 

a la Constance — Constance. 

Eggs stuffed with chicken, ham and mush- 
rooms cut in small cubes, mixed with the 
chopped yolk and some cream sauce; grati- 
nated and served with cream sauce. 

a la Dauphine — Dauphine. 

Eggs stuffed M'ith chicken, and the yolks of 
eggs pounded together with cream sauce, 
baked in the oven; served with Maderia 
sauce. 

aux Epinards — with Spinach. 

Eggs cut in barrel shape, the yolk taken out, 
filled with spinach, a round slice of beef- 
tongue of the same circumference as the egg 
is placed on top of each; served with a rich 
gravy. 

a la Fedora — Fedora. 

Eggs stuffed with a puree of gooseliver mixed 
with the chopped yolk served with truffle 
sauce. 



€.S$s, and Row to Use Cbcm. loi 

Stuffed Eggs (hard) — Oeufs Farcis 

(i la Garfield — Garfield. 

Eggs stuffed with forcemeat made of cooked 
chicken, ham and the yolk of eggs mixed with 
cream sauce, dipped in beaten egg, rolled in 
bread crumbs and fried in hot fat; served 
with piquant sauce. 

aux Huitres — with Oysters. 

Soft part of oysters cut in four, cooked with 
white wine, mixed with cream sauce and the 
chopped yolks of eggs. Eggs stuffed with 
this, besprinkled with bread crumbs and 
melted butter and then gratinated. 

a V Indienne — Indian Style. 

Eggs stuffed with curried rice mixed with the 
chopped yolk and cream sauce. 

a V Italienne — Italian Fashion. 

Eggs cut lengthwise into halves, stuffed with 
shallots, mushrooms and fine herbs cooked 
in butter and mixed with the chopped yolks 
of eggs, dipped in beaten eggs rolled in bread 
crumbs, fried in hot fat and served with to- 
mato sauce. 



[02 eggs, and Bou) to Use Cbem. 

Cold Eggs — Oeufs Froids 

Ell Aspic — ill Jelly. 

Jelly may be obtained from many different 
materials, but what is most commonly used 
nowadays, and which fully covers the purpose 
is prepared gelatine. Science has given ample 
proof that jelly contains no substantial nutri- 
ment even if made exclusively with calf's feet. 
Prepare with one pint of good stock and with 
one ounce of Keystone Silver White Gelatine , 
some jelly well seasoned and perfumed with 
half glass each of Maderia and white wine, 
fine herbs, spices, etc. Put some tartelet or 
small oval pudding moulds on ice, and with 
a round soft brush apply some of the cold 
though not stiffened jelly; after a coating of 
one-eighth of an inch of jelly is applied, 
decorate it to your fancy with ham, beef- 
tongue, truffles, green peas, white of hard 
boiled egg, gherkins, tarragon leaves, chervil, 
lobster coral, etc. Have some hard boiled 
eggs peeled and cut lengthwise into halves, 
lay half of an egg in each pan and fill up b}'^ 
degrees with the remaining jelly; leave stand 
until quite firm; dip the moulds into warm 
water and turn out its contents on a dish. 
Egg mollet, or poached eggs, maybe used in- 
stead of the hard boiled, or in place of using 
small moulds one large one may be employed. 

En Belle-vue — in Belle-vue. 
Same as the above. 



€SS$> and Row to lis« CDem. 103 

Cold Eggs — Oeufs Froids 

au Beurre d'Anchois — with Anchovy Butter. 

Eggs cut lengthwise into halves put on oval 
shaped toasts and decorated with anchovy- 
butter. 

au Beurre de Montpellier — with Montpellier Butter. 
Same as the aforesaid; instead of anchovy- 
butter use butter pounded with parsley, 
tarragon, chervil, chives, capers, gherkins 
and some yolks of hard boiled eggs passed 
through a fine hair sieve ; if not green 
enough, color with spinach green or Breton 
coloring. 

h la Boulonaise — Boulogne Style. 

Egg mollet dished around a salad prepared of 
cauliflower, crayfish, crabmeat, mussels, well 
seasoned with French mustard and fine herbs. 

a la Cumberland — Cumberland. 

Equal quantities of cooked chicken breast, 
ham, pate de foie gras and fresh grated Par- 
mesan cheese pounded together and passed 
through a fine sieve; put some of this force- 
meat on oval shaped slices of toast and place 
on each part of an egg cut lengthwise into 
half, and then cut in slices; between each 
slice put some finely cut beeftongue and gher- 
kins, and decorate with jelly. 

h la Danoise — Danish Fashion. 

Eggs cut lengthwise into halves, filled with 
lobster salad covered with Mayonaise sauce 
and decorated. 



I04 esss, and Row to Use Cl)em. 

Cold Eggs — Oeufs Froids 

a I 'Estragon — with Tarragon. 

Eggs cut lengthwise into halves, decorated 
with parboiled tarragon leaves and covered 
with jelly flavored with tarragon. 

a la Justine — Justine. 

Eggs cut lengthwise into halves scooped out 
and stuffed with a puree of pheasant mixed 
with whipped cream and covered with Cham- 
froid sauce, reduced with game stock ; when 
cold decorate with truffles and gherkins. 

Ma rines — Pickled. 

Hard eggs peeled and put into a jar; boiling 
vinegar flavored with spices and fine herbs 
poured over; ready for use in three or four 
days. 

a la Mayonaise—with Mayonaise. 

Hard eggs sliced and covered with May- 
onaise sauce. 

d, la Mentonnaise — Menton Style. 

Eggs cut lengthwise into halves, the yolk 
taken out chopped with anchovies and capers. 
Eggs are filled with this stuffing and a slice 
of tunny laid on each ; decorated with jelly. 

a la Moscovite — Moscow Style. 

Eggs stuffed with Russian salad. 



€gSs, ana How to Use Cl>tm. 105 

Cold Eggs — Oeufs Froids 

i la Norvegidnne — Norvegian Fashion. 

Eggs cut lengthwise into halves, yolks chop- 
ped with anchovies; white part of the eggs 
filled with this stuffing and decorated with 
stuffed olives and anchovies cut in strips. 

a la Polonaise — Polish Style. 

Egg filled with salad prepared of lobster, 
pickled oysters, and gherkins mixed with 
Mayonaise sauce. 

a la Russe — Russian Style. 

Eggs cut lengthwise into halves, the yolks 
scooped out, white part stuffed with caviare, 
and decorated with strips of anchovies and 
the chopped yolks. 

en Salade — Salad. 

Hard eggs cut lengthwise into quarters sea- 
soned with salt, pepper, vinegar, and oil, 
dressed on nice leaves of lettuce, and before 
serving besprinkle with fine herbs. 

en Sandwich — Sandwich. 

Buttered slices of bread with eggs cut in slices 
between. 

Any variety of q^^ sandwiches can be served, 
using Mayonaise or anchovy butter for mois- 
tening the bread, adding watercress, lettuce 
leaves, fine herbs, etc., to the eggs. 

a la Strassbourgeoise — Strassbourg Style. 

Eggs filled with puree of pate de foie gras 
and served on Madeira jelly. 



BRILLAT SAVARIN remarked very justly 
that, for an omelet to be exellent, it should 
never be made of more than twelve eggs. The 
writer goes still further, and says that, not more 
than eight eggs — and if the cook is not an adept 
in his profession, not more than six — should be 
used, as the production of an omelet, worthy of the 
name, is more difficult than many persons sup-' 
pose, or than some are willing to admit. 

Three most important rules are to be followed 
in the preparation of an omelet. 

First: the omelet pan must be extremely clean, 
and never used for any other purpose. When not 
in use, it should always be left a little greasy; 
neither water nor any other liquid should ever 
come in contact with it. To clean the pan it 
should be slightly heated, and then rubbed with 
fine kitchen salt and a coarse towel, care being 
taken that the pan never ^becomes red-hot, as 
otherwise it is liable to become rough. 

Second: the eggs should be well beaten. Cooks 
who have a reputation for exactness of method, 
strain the eggs through a towel or a strainer, which 
gives the most satisfactory result, as the whites 
and the yolks become well mixed, and the omelet, 
when cooked, will not show those little white 



eggs, and Row to Use Cbem. 107 

spots which are so often seen in omelets, and 
which prove either the ignorance of the cook or 
his negligence in the preparation of them. 

Third: an omelet must always be cooked over 
a brisk fire; and here is where the ability of the 
cook is fully tested, as "the quicker the omelet is 
made the better it is. 

Some cooks take pride in cooking omelets 
without stirring the eggs with a fork or a spoon, 
and it is true that some may succeed in this way; 
but, as a rule such omelets are not so delicate as 
when the eggs are stirred while cooking. It is 
advisable to use a kitchen spoon for that purpose, 
as forks or other sharp utensils are likely to 
scratch the pan. 

RECIPE FOR OMELETS. 

Break six fresh eggs into a bowl, add a suffi- 
cient quantity of salt and pepper, and for every 
three eggs add one tablespoonful of thick cream ; 
beat the egg well with an egg whisk, or a fork, 
and strain into another bowl. Put tv/o ounces of 
butter into the omelet pan, and when it is melted 
without being browned, turn in the eggs; stir 
continually with a kitchen spoon so that all the 
eggs are equally well cooked and are of the same 
consistency, keeping it very soft; leave it for two 
or three seconds without stirring, and then fold 
it into three layers, beginning with the side near- 
est the handle; this can be done with the spoon. 
Knock the bottom of the pan gently over the 



io8 €SSs, and Boio to lise tl)em. 

range so as to make the omelet move towards the 
outer part of the pan, and then fold the other part 
so that the omelet is a long oval in shape. 

To turn it out upon the dish, grasp the handle 
of the pan with the right hand, the thumb being 
uppermost and the palm of the hand underneath; 
hold the dish in the left hand, place the edge of 
the pan on the inner side of the dish, and turn the 
pan upside down, moving from right to left. 

AH this should take but three or four minutes, 
and at the same time exercising the greatest care 
not to overcook the omelet, as it is so much 
more diflficult to fold when too greatly solidified. 

Some persons like omelets of a golden hue, and 
to attain this it is only necessary, when the ome- 
let is folded, to leave it over the fire for a few 
seconds. Fiat omelets are served occasionally, 
but they are not so delicate by far as those made 
according to the above recipe. 

In the following recipes the terms filled and 
garnished are applied. Filled means that the 
omelet should be stuffed inside before folding, 
and garnished means that the omelet when folded 
and on the dish should be adorned with the gar- 
nishing. Sweet omelets are described under a 
special heading. 

Omelette — Omelet 

d I' Ail — with Garlic. 

The bowl in which the eggs for the omelet 
are beaten is previously rubbed with garlic. 



€$$s, and Row to list Cbem. 109 

Omelette — Omelet 

d i'Alge'rienne — Algerian Style. 

Omelet filled and garnished with artichoke 
bottoms cut in squares, and stewed in tomato 
sauce. 

a V Americaine — American Fashiofi. 

Omelet filled and garnished with lobster cut 
in cubes, and stewed with tomatoes and fine 
herbs. 

a I'Anglaise — English Style. 

Plain omelet garnished with broiled strips 
of bacon. 

aux Asperges — with Asparagus Tips. 

Omelet garnished with cooked asparagus tips 
tossed in butter. Asparagus tips may also be 
mixed with the omelet. 

a la Bayonnaise — Bayonne Style. 

Omelet filled with ham and red pepper cut in 
squares, surrounded with tomato sauce. 

a la B^arnaise — Bifarnaise. 

Omelet filled with mushrooms and artichoke 
bottoms cut in squares and stewed in tomato 
sauce. The top of the omelet garnished with 
rings of anchovy fillets into which some cold 
Bernaise sauce is put. 

aux apes — with Cipes. 

Omelet filled and garnished with c^pes cut in 
dice, fried in oil and stewed in brown sauce. 



no €SSs, and Row to I5se Cl)em. 

Omelette — Omelet 

a la Cervelle — with Brains. 

Omelet filled and garnished with calf's brains 
cut in squares and stewed in cream sauce. 

aux Champignons — with Mushrooms. 

Omelet filled and garnished with mushrooms 
cut in squares and stewed in Madeira sauce. 

(X la Charcutiere — Pork Butchers' Fashion. 

Omelet with bacon and onions, garnished 
with slices of bloodpudding and surrounded 
with mustard sauce. 

des Chasseurs — Hunter' s Fashion. 

Omelet filled with puree of game, surrounded 
with Madeira sauce reduced with game stock. 

a la Chdtelaine — Chatelaine. 

Omelet filled with mushrooms, truffles, breast 
of partridge and salt pork cut in squares and 
stewed in brown sauce. 

a la Ciboulette — with Chives. 

Chives mixed with the beaten eggs. 

aux Clams — with Hard Clams. 

Omelet filled and garnished with the belly 
part — i. e., the soft. part of clams stewed in 
cream. 

aux Concombres — with Cucumbers. 

Omelet filled and garnished with cucumbers 
stewed in cream. 



€Sgs, and Boio to lisc Chem. m 

Omelette — Omelet 

aiix Crabes Dtirs — with Hard Crabs. 

Omelet filled and garnished with crab meat 
stewed in cream. 

aux Crabes d'Huitres — with Oyster Crabs. 

This omelet may be served in three different 
ways. 

1. Plain omelet garnished with fried oyster 
crabs. 

2. Oyster crabs fried in butter and mixed 
with the beaten eggs. 

3. Omelet filled and garnished with oyster 
crabs stewed in cream. 

aux Crevettes — with Shrimps. 

Omelet filled and garnished with shrimps 
stewed in cream. 

d. la Derby — Derby. 

Omelet filled and garnished with fat goose- 
liver and mushrooms cut in squares and 
stewed in Madeira sauce. 

a la Dieppoise — Dieppe Style. 

Omelet with fine herbs, filled with mussels 
and mushrooms stewed in white wine sauce. 

h la Durand — Durand. 

Omelet filled with asparagus tips and truiBes 
tossed in butter, garnished with artichoke 
bottoms and mushrooms cut fine and stewed 
in cream. 



112 eggs, and Bow to Use CDem. 

Omelette — Omelet 

a I ' Ecarlate — Ecarlate. 

Thick puree of tomatoes well beaten up with 
the eggs in order that they may obtain a red 
tint; omelet covered with tomato sauce. 

aux Ecrevisses — with Crayfish. 

Omelet filled and garnished with crayfish 
stewed in cream. 

a V Egyptienne — Egyptian Fashion. 

Omelet filled and garnished with sliced 
breasts of quails and truffles stewed in brown 
sauce. 

aux Epinards — with Spinach. 

Omelet filled with spinach and surrounded 
with rich gravy. 

d, r Espagnole— Spanish Style. 

Finely shredded onions and green peppers 
smothered in oil with ham cut in squares; 
when sufficiently cooked add some peeled 
and squeezed tomatoes cut into eight parts, 
or if the tomatoes are large, in still more 
parts; stew gently for ten to twelve min- 
utes, add some beef extract and fill and gar- 
nish the omelet with this preparation. Some- 
times shrimps, oysters or sweetbread are 
added to the above. 

^ V Estragon — 7i'ith Tarragon. 

Chopped tarragon mixed with the eggs. 



€$Ss, and Row to Use Cbctn. 113 

Omelette — Omelet 

aux Fines Herbes — with Fine Herbs. 

Eggs for omelet mixed with finely chopped 
parsley, chives and chervil 

aux Fines Herbes Cuites — with Cooked Fine Herbs. 
Eggs for omelet mixed with previously cooked 
and chopped shallots, mushrooms, parsley 
and chervil. 

a la Flamande — Flemmish Fashion. 

Omelet filled with spinach and garnished 
with calf's brains and brown sauce. 

aux Fleurs de Courge — with Pu?npkin Buds. 

Pumpkin buds cut small, fried slightly in 
butter and mixed with the beaten eggs. 

aux Foies de Volailles — with Chicken Livers. 

Omelet filled and garnished with chicken 
livers cut in squares and stewed in Madeira 
sauce. 

aux Fonds d' Artichauts — with Artichoke Bottoms. 
Artichoke bottoms cut in squares, fried in 
butter and mixed with the beaten eggs. 

au Frontage — with Cheese. 

Grated cheese mixed with beaten eggs; the 
best sorts of cheese for this purpose are Par- 
mesan or Gruyere. 

ail Hareng Saur — with Smoked Herritig. 

Smoked herring, boned and cut in small 
squares, fried in butter and mixed with the 
beaten eggs. 



114 esss, and Bow to Use Cbem. 

Omelette— Omelet 

a la Hollandaise — Dutch Style. 

The yolk of the eggs mixed with fine herbs, 
the whites well whisked to froth and mixed 
with the yolks; flat omelets are prepared 
from this mixture and served with sliced 
smoked salmon. 

au Homard — with Lobster. 

Omelet filled and garnished with lobster cut 
in squares and stewed in cream. 

aux Huttres — with Oysters. 

Omelet filled and garnished with the soft part 
of the oysters stewed in white wine and cream 
sauce. 

h V Imperatrice — Empress Fashion. 

Omelet filled and garnished with soft part of 
oysters and sliced breast of chicken stewed 
in cream. 

a rindienne — Indian Style. , 

Onions finely sliced, smothered in butter and 
mixed with the beaten eggs; seasoned with 
curry powder; omelet filled with boiled rice 
and served with curry cream sauce. 

au Jamhon — with Ham. 

Ham cut in small squares, fried in butter and 
mixed with the beaten eggs. 



esjs, and Row to ISse Cbem. 115 

Omelette — Omelet 

d la Jardiniire — Gardener s Fashion. 

Onions sliced fine, smothered in butter and 
then mixed with the eggs; omelet filled and 
garnished with carrots, turnips, peas, beans, 
artichokes and mushrooms cut in squares and 
stewed in cream ; tomato sauce around the 
omelet. 

au Jus — with Gravy. 

Plain omelet surrounded with rich gravy. 

a la Lanque de Boeuf Fum^e — -with Smoked Beef- 
tongue. 
Same as ^'Omelet au Jambon." 

au Lard — with Bacon. 

1. The beaten eggs mixed with small pieces of 
fried bacon. 

2. Omelet garnished with broiled strips of 
bacon. 

h la Lyonnaise — Lyonese Fashion. 

Onions sliced finely and smothered in butter, 
mixed with the beaten eggs and some grated 
parmesan cheese. 

a la Macidoine — MacMoine. 

Omelet filled and garnished with different 
kinds of vegetables stewed in cream. 

a la Maitre d'Jfdtel — Maitre d'H6tel. 

Omelet filled and garnished with sweetbreads 
cut in squares, cooked in butter with fine 
herbs and beef extract. 



ii6 €SSs, and Roio to Use tbem. 

Omelette — Omelet 

ties Matelots — Sailors' Fashion. 

The bowl in which the eggs for the omelet 
are beaten is rubbed with garlic; anchovies 
cut in small squares mixed with the eggs, 
omelet garnished with slices of smoked sal- 
mon and surrounded with tomato sauce. 

a ta MMicis — Mddicis. 

Omelet filled and garnished with breast of 
quail, truffles, and mushrooms cut in squares 
and stewed in Madeira sauce. 

a la M^xicaine — Mexican Fashion. 

Omelet filled and garnished with shrimps 
and sweet peppers cut small and stewed in 
shrimp sauce. 

a la Milanaise — Milanese Fashion. 

Omelet filled and garnished with spaghetti 
cut one inch long and mixed with shredded 
truffles, ham, mushrooms, tomato sauce and 
grated parmesan cheese. 

a la Moelle de Boeuf — with Beef Marrow. 

Omelet filled and garnished with beef marrow 
cut in squares, parboiled and stewed in brown 
sauce. 

h la Monselet — Monselet. 

Omelet filled and garnished with truffles and 
artichokes cut in squares and stewed in cream ; 
tomato sauce with beef extract around the 
omelet. 



€.S&s, and now to Use CDem. 117 

Omelette — Omelet 

d la Montglas — Montglas. 

Omelet filled and garnished with ragout as 
for poached eggs. (See "Poached Eggs 
Montglas."^ 

a la Mornay — Mornay. 

Omelet filled and garnished with sliced truf- 
fles and chicken stewed in cream sauce. 

aicx Monies — with Mussels. 

Omelet filled and garnished with mussels 
stewed in white wine and cream. 

a la Moussline — Foam Omelet. 

The whites of eggs are well whisked to a stiff 
froth and mixed with the yolks; cooked as 
usual. 

a, la Mousseline au Parmesan — Foam Omelet with 
Parmesan Cheese. 
Same as above with the addition of grated 
parmesan cheese to the eggs. 

a la Nantua — Nantua Fashion. 

Omelet filled and garnished with crayfish 
and trufHes stewed in cream sauce with cray- 
fish butter. 

a la Normande — Norman Style. 

Omelet filled with oysters and shrimps and 
garnished with very small fried smelts. 



n8 eggs, and Bow to Use Chem. 

Omelette — Omelet 

aux Oeufs d'Alose — with Shad Roe. 

1. Shad roe cut in small squares, fried in 
butter and mixed with the omelet. 

2. Omelet filled and garnished with shad roe 
previously cooked and then cut in squares 
and stewed in cream. 

aux Oignons — with Onions. 

Onions sliced very fine, smothered in butter 
and then mixed with the beaten eggs. 

aux Oignons Nouveaitx—with Spring Onions. 

Omelet garnished with small glazed spring 

onions. 
aux Olives — with Olives. 

Omelet filled and garnished with small olives 

stewed in brown sauce. 

aux Olives Farcies — with Stuffed Olives. 

1. Same as above only use olives stuffed with 
chicken forcemeat and chopped trufHes. 

2. Stuffed olives mixed with beaten eggs; 
omelet cooked in the usual way. 

a rOseille — with Sorrel. 

Sorrel cleaned and cut fine; cooked in butter 
until dry, and then mixed with the beaten 
eggs. 

a la Parisienne — Parisian Style. 

Omelet as "a la Mousseline" with the addition 
of chopped shallots, mushrooms, parsley, and 
ham cooked in butter. 



eggs, and Roiu to I5se CD«m. ng 

Omelette — Omelet 

au Parmesan — with Parmesan Cheese. 

Beaten eggs mixed with grated parmesan 
cheese. 

ct la Paysanne — Farmers' Fashion. 

Tomatoes peeled and well squeezed, cut up 
and cooked in butter until all humidity is 
evaporated ; then mixed with the beaten eggs 
and the omelet cooked as usual ; served 
with brown sauce or rich gravy and garnished 
with little crusts, filled with puree of onions. 

au Persil — with Parsley. 

Chopped parsley mixed with eggs. 

aux Petits Pais — with Green Peas. 

Green peas mixed with beaten eggs. 

aux Piments Verts — with Green Peppers. 

Chopped green peppers cooked in butter and 
mixed with beaten eggs. 

aux Pointes d'Asperges — with Asparagus Tips. 

1. Cooked asparagus tips cut in small pieces 
and mixed with the eggs. 

2. Omelet filled and garnished with cooked 
asparagus tips stewed in cream sauce. 

aux Pointes de Houblon — with Hop Sprigs. 
Can be prepared as the above. 

aux Pommes de Terre — with Potatoes. 

Raw potatoes cut in small squares fried in 
butter and mixed with the eggs. 



I20 ms, and Row to Use Cbem. 

Omelette — Omelet 

A la Portugaise — Portuguese Style. 

Chopped fine herbs, olives, and anchovies 
mixed with the eggs; omelet surrounded 
with tomato sauce. 

des Prelats — Prelate Fashion. 

Omelet garnished and filled with herrings' 
soft roe, crab meat, crayfish tails, mushrooms 
and truffles stewed in white wine sauce. 

a la Provenfale — Provencial Style. 

Omelet filled with minced onions and garlic 
smothered in oil, and surrounded with tomato 
sauce. 

a la pur ^e d'Artichauts — with pur ^e of Artichokes. 

a la puree d'Asperges — with puree of Asparagus. 

a la puree de Champignons — with purSe of Mushrooms. 

a la puree de Chouxfleiirs — with puree of Cauliflower. 

h la pur ^e d'Oseille — with pur^e of Sorrel. 

a la purSe de Tomates — with pur^e of Tomatoes. 

h- la purde de Volaille — with pur^e of Fowl. 

Omelets like poached eggs, or egg mollets, 
can be served with a great variety of purees; 
the omelet is filled with the puree and sur- 
rounded with gravy or brown sauce. 

a la RSforme — Reform Club Style. 

Same garnishing as for '■'■Fried Eggs a la Re- 
forme." 



€$$s, and Row to lise Cbeni. 121 

Omelette — Omelet 

aux Ris de Veau — with Sweetbread. 

Omelet filled and garnished with sweetbread 
cut in squares and stewed in cream. 

a la Robert — Robert Fashion. 

Omelet with onions and bacon. 

aux Rognons de Mouton — 7mth Mutton Kidneys. 

Omelet filled and garnished with mutton kid- 
neys cut in squares and stewed in Madeira 
sauce. 

aux Rognons de Veau — with Veal Kidneys. 
Same as above. 

a la Russe — Russian Style. 

Small omelet filled with caviare; generally 
served cold; but it can be served hot also. 

aux Soft Clams — with Soft Clams. 

Prepared as with "Hard Clams;" should the 

soft clams be too large, they may be cut into 

halves, but it is preferable to have them small. 
a la Soubise — Soubise. 

Omelet filled with white puree of onions. 
d, la Suisse — Swiss Style. 

Guyere cheese cut in small squares and 

mixed with the eggs. 
Tricolores — in Three Colors. 

Small omelets of which one is cooked plain; 

one mixed with thick puree of tomatoes and 

one as explained for ^^ omelette verte" or green 

omelet. 



122 es$s, ana Row to Use CDeiti. 

Omelette — Omelet 

au Thon a la Brillat-Savarin — with Tunny Brillat- 
Savarin Style. 
The soft roe of carp cooked in water for a 
few minutes is chopped with some tunny, 
then cooked in butter with chopped shallots 
and mixed with the beaten eggs. Omelet 
cooked as usual and served on a dish with 
melted maitre d'hotel butter. 
(See Brillat-Savarin's Omelette du Curd in his 
Physiologie du Goiit.) 

aux Tomates — with Tomatoes. 

Omelet filled and garnished with tomatoes 
previously peeled, squeezed, cut in quarters 
and then stewed in butter. 

aux Truffes — with Truffles. 

1. Truffles cut in squares and mixed with the 
beaten eggs; omelet surrounded with gravy. 

2. Omelet filled and garnished with truffles 
cut in squares and stewed in Madeira sauce. 

Verte — Green Omelet. 

Chopped parsley, chervil, tarragon, chives, 
spinach and sorrel (the two latter previously 
cooked in butter) are mixed with the eggs; 
omelet cooked as usual. 

des Voyageurs — Travelers' Omelet. 

Omelet cooked flat, put on a plate until cold 
and then filled with a puree prepared of 
cooked ham, chicken, and butter, seasoned 
with pepper, salt, and mustard; the omelet is 
rolled like a French pancake and eaten cold. 



€$3s, and Row to Use Cbem. 123 

Omelette — Omelet 

des Zouaves — Zouave Fashion. 

Chopped truffles, mushrooms, ham, and tar- 
ragon mixed with eggs; omelet cooked as 
usual and garnished with small crusts filled 
with puree of onions. 

Omelettes Sucrees — Sweet Omelets 

aux Bananes — with Bananas. 

Omelet filled and garnished with bananas 
cut in slices and cooked in syrup. Omelet 
bestrewn with powdered sugar and glazed 
with a red hot omelet iron. 

a la Ctihtine — C^ldstine. 

Small omelets alternately filled with Frangi- 
pane cream, apple and strawberry marmelade, 
etc., glazed as above. 

aux Confitures — with JPreserves. 

These omelets with souffl^e and rum omelets 
are most commonly known and served among 
sweet omelets. 

A- sweet omelet before serving should always 
be strewn over with powdered sugar and 
glazed with the omelet iron, which must be 
red hot and dipped in water before using. 
Omelets can be filled with many different 
marmalades, jams, and jellies, and preserves 
as can be seen from the following: 



124 esss, and Boiu to Use Cbcm. 

Omelettes Sucrees — Sweet Omelets 

aux Abricots—with Apricot Jam. 
diix Coings — ivith Quince Marmalade, 
aux Fraises — with Strawberry Jam. 
aux Framboises — with Raspberry Jam. 
a la GeUe de Groscille — with Fed Currant Jelly, 
a la GeUe de Guava — with Guava Jelly, 
aux Groseilles de Bar le Due — with Bar le Due Cur- 
rants, 
a r Orange — with Orange Marmelade. 

a la Dauphine — Dauphine Style. 

Omelet filled with apple marmelade and gar- 
nished with whipped cream flavored with 
vanilla. 

a la Frangipane — with Frangipane Cream. 

Omelet filled with Frangipane cream pre- 
pared as follows: 

Frangipane Cream : Mix together three egg 
yolks and one whole egg, two ounces of 
powdered sugar, one ounce of butter, a little 
vanilla or lemon flavoring, four ounces of 
flour, and one gill each of milk and cream; 
put in a saucepan and set on the fire to boil, 
stirring continuously. As soon as it com- 
mences to boil take ofi the fire and add one 
ounce of nut butter; it is then ready for use. 
If desired some crushed macaroons mav be 
added. 



€.$$&, and Row to Use Cbem. 125 

Omelettes Sucr6es — Sweet Omelets 

aux Fruits Confits — with Preserved Fruits. 

Omelet filled and garnished with assorted 
preserved fruits, as peaches, pears, green 
gages, cherries, etc. Cut into small pieces 
and mixed with apricot marmelade diluted 
with syrup, flavored with Kirschwasser, rum 
or other liquors. 

au Kirschwasser — with Kirschwasser. 

Sweet omelet cooked plain, glazed as usual ; 
before serving Kirschwasser is poured over 
the omelet and fire set to it. 

mix Pommes — with Apples. 

Omelet filled with apples peeled and cut in 
quarters, then minced fine and cooked with 
butter and sugar; omelet cooked and glazed 
as usual. 

aux Pommes — h I' Alsacienne — with Apples ., Alsatian 
Fashion. 
This is more a pancake than omelet ; in Alsace, 
however, it is called omelet and we shall 
therefore append it. Apples cooked as above 
are mixed with a batter prepared with one 
spoonful of flour, two whole eggs and one 
gill of cream seasoned with a pinch of salt 
and sugar; cooked on both sides like a pan- 
cake; before serving besprinkled with pqw- 
dered sugar. 



126 eggs, and Bow to Use tbem. 

Omelettes Sucrees — Sweet Omelets 

au Rum — with Rum. 

Prepared as '■'■Omelette au Kirsch;" instead of 
the latter rum is used. 

Souffl^e Nature — Plain Puff Omelet. 

There are four principal facts to observe if 
one desires to have success when preparing 
puff omelets, ist. The yolks of eggs must be 
well mixed with the sugar until they become 
quite foamy. 2d. The whites must be whisked 
to a stiff froth. 3d. The omelet must be cooked 
in a hot oven. And 4th, the omelet must be 
eaten immediately without delay if its quality 
should not deteriorate. 

recipe: 
The yolks of three eggs are gradually mixed 
with six tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, 
until it becomes smooth and light; the whites 
of six eggs are whisked to a stiff froth and 
then mixed with the yolks and the sugar; this 
must be done gently but quick, only taking a 
small part of the egg froth to commence with. 
A dish is buttered and bestrewn with pow- 
dered sugar, the egg mass put on it in an 
oblong shape, besprinkled with powdered 
sugar and cooked in a hot oven. 
Some cooks find pleasure in decorating the om- 
elet; but this is optional and left to the cook. 
PufiE omelets can be flavored with various 
essences and perfumes as can be seen from 
the following: 



€$is, and How to Use Cbem. 127 

Omelettes Sucrees — Sweet Omelets 

Soufflee aux Amandes — with Almonds. 

Same as above with the addition of pounded 
bitter almonds, or extract of almonds. 

Soufflee au Citron — witk Lemon. 

Same as plain puff omelet with the addition 
of lemon flavoring; either finely chopped 
rind of lemon, or lemon extract. 

Soufflee au Chocolat—with Chocolate. 

Tablets of vanilla chocolate are heated in the 
oven until they are soft, then crushed and 
mixed with the sugar and yolks of eggs, the 
same proceedings as for plain puff omelet. 

Soufflee au Confitures — with Preserves. 

Same as "Vanilla Puff Omelet," with pre- 
serves in the centre of the omelet. 

Soufflee au Fleurs d' Granger — with Orange Blossom. 
Same as "Plain Puff Omelet" with the addi- 
tion of orange blossom water. 

Soufflee aux Macarons — with Macaroons. 

Crushed macaroons are mixed with plain puff 
omelet and cooked as usual. 

Soufflee a la Vanille — with Vanilla. 

Plain puff omelet flavored with vanilla ex- 
tract or the inner part of vanilla beans. 



128 eggs, and Row to Use Cbem. 

Oeufs Sucres — Sweet Eggs 

Crime t V Anglaise — JEnglish Cream. 

Five yolks of eggs mixed with four ounces of 
powdered sugar are diluted with one pint of 
boiling milk, brought to the fire to thicken 
without boiling, stirring constantly. Flavor 
to taste, either with vanilla, almonds, lemon, 
or orange flavor. 

Crime au Cafi — Coffee Custard. 

Half pound of roasted coffee thrown into one 
quart of boiling milk ; covered hermetically, 
and infused for a half hour, then strained 
through a fine sieve; mixed with the yolks of 
six and the whites of three eggs, and six 
ounces of powdered sugar, all previously 
beaten together; strained once more and then 
filled into moulds — these are put into a pan 
with boiling water and pushed into a slack 
oven without permitting the water to boil; 
when cooked put away to cool off; unmold 
and serve when cold. 

Crime au Caramel — Caramel Custard. 

Put a few lumps of su'gar with the juice of a 
lemon, into a copper pan, and put on the 
range; cook until of a light golden brown, 
and then pour into the mould in which the 
custard is to be cooked; when cold fill up 
with the same preparation as for Crime au 
Caf^, with the omission of coffee and cook 
as stated above. 



e,i&s, and Row to lise Cl>eni. 129 

Oeufs Sucr6s — Sweet Eggs 

Crime au Citron — Lemon Custard. 

Same proportions as for coffee custard, but 
flavored with the rind of lemon instead of 
coffee. 

Crime Meringuies — Meringue Custard. 

1. Custards cooked in small moulds, placed 
on round slices of sponge cakes, covered and 
decorated with meringue preparation. 

2. Pie dish lined with short paste or puff- 
paste trimmings, filled with custard and 
baked in a slack oven, then covered and deco- 
rated with meringue mass. (See '■'■MMngue.") 

Crime a I' Orange — Orange Custard. 

Same proportion as stated above, flavored 
with orange rind. 

Crime h la Vanille — Vanilla Custard. 

Vanilla beans put into the milk before boil- 
ing, the same proceeding as for other custards. 

MMngue — Meringue. 

In cooking and confectionery two different 
sorts of m6ringue are prepared, which have 
this in common, that they are exclusively pre- 
pared with whipped whites of eggs and sugar. 

MMngue Ordinaire — Plain MMngue. 

The whites of twelves eggs are beaten to a 
stiff froth and gradually mixed with one 
pound of sifted powdered sugar. 



130 eggs, and Bow to Use Cbetn. 

Oeufs Sucres— Sweet Eggs 

MMngue Italienne — Italian MMngue. 

One pound of sugar cooked to the blow de- 
gree is mixed and vigorously beaten with 
the froth of six e.^^ whites. 
This preparation is not quite as light as 
'■'■Plain MMngue" but will be found useful 
on many occasions. 

MMngues d, la Chantilly — Chantilly MMngues. 

Fill a pastry bag, into which a round tube of 
a half inch in diameter is slided, with plain 
meringue and press it out in the shape of a 
half egg on to some strips of paper cut about 
two inches wide; besprinkle with powdered 
sugar ; place them on a thick board previously 
dampened, and bake in a very moderate oven 
with the door open until they are of a light 
color; meringues should be rather dried than 
baked. When they are sufficiently cooked, 
take them off the paper, and with the thumb 
make an impression on their flat side; put 
them in a warm place to finish drying. 
When cold they are served with whipped 
cream flavored with vanilla. 
Meringues can be served with creams of dif- 
ferent flavors, or with a sweet puree of chest- 
nuts mixed with whipped cream; they can 
also be served with ice creams. 



€jjs, and now to Use Cbem. 131 

Oeuf Sucr6s — Sweet Eggs 

Oeufs d, la Neige — Snow Eggs or Floating Islands. 
Have two quarts of boiling milk in a flat 
shallow pan ; with a tablespoon drop in some 
meringue preparation in the shape and size 
of an egg, then cover the pan and draw it to 
the edge of the range so that the meringue 
will cook without the milk boiling; when 
firm enough take out the m6ringues and lay 
them on a hair sieve. With the rest of the 
milk prepare an English cream, and when 
cold put on a dish and the m6ringue on top. 

Oeufs en Surprise au Blanc-manger — Surprise Eggs 
with Blanc-mange. 
Make little holes on both sides of raw eggs 
and blow out their contents into a bowl for 
further use. Close up one of the holes with 
paste and through the other opening fill the 
^?,%, with Blanc-mange prepared as follows : 
Pound together half ounce of bitter and eight 
ounces of sweet almonds with two table- 
spoonfuls of orange flower water ; dilute with 
one pint of hot milk and one of cream; 
add nine sheets of Keystone Silver White Gel- 
atine previously soaked in water, and when 
melted strain into a bowl. 
When the eggs are filled with this, set them 
on ice, and when firm, they are ready for 
serving. 



Z32 €3Ss, and fyow to Use Cl)£m. 

Oeufs Sucr^s — Sweet Eggs 

'Oeu/s en Surprise au Chocalat — Surprise Eggs with 
Chocolate. 
Same proceedings as above; instead of al- 
monds chocolate is used for flavoring. 

Pudding h la Moscovite — Moscow Pudding. 

Fill a pudding mould with plain meringue 
and cook in the water-bath as custard. When 
cold unmould and serve with English cream. 

.Sabayon — Sabayon. 

vSabayon is most commonly served as a sauce, 
^although it is often enough served in glasses, 
vas an entremet by itself. It is generally made 
with white wine, a dry wine being preferable, 
but it can also be prepared with sherry, Ma- 
deira, rum, Kirschwasser, brandy, etc. 
Put in a copper pan or basin five yolks and 
the white of one egg, with four ounces of 
powdered sugar, and a half wineglassful of 
dry white wine. Set it on a slow fire and 
whip vigorously until of the consistency of 
Tivhipped cream, then serve in glasses or 
.•spread over the pudding as desired. 



-^^•-^ 



Becasse Ecossaise — Scotch Woodcock. 

Many cooks when serving this dish simply 
dish up scrambled eggs on anchovy toast;; 
but this is an error, only the egg yolks should 
be used and be mixed with cream. Proceed 
as follows : 

Beat four egg yolks with one gill of cream^ 
season with salt and pepper, put in a sauce- 
pan over the fire and stir continuously until 
thick without boiling, then pour this prepar- 
ation over some anchovy toasts and serve^ 

Beignets d'Oeufs — Egg Fritters. 

Hard boiled eggs cut lengthwise into halves^ 
stuffed with some kind of cooked forcemeat^ 
dipped in frying batter and fried in hot fat; 
served on a napkin. 

Bouchees d'Oeufs d, la Crime — Small Patties of Eggs 
in Cream. 
Small patties filled with hard eggs cut in 
squares and tossed in cream sauce. 



134 €SSs, and Bow to Use Cftem. 

Miscellaneous Recipes — Continued. 

Cromesquis d'Oeufs aux Truffes — Egg Cromesquis 
with Truffles. 
Hard eggs and trufHes cut in squares, tossed 
in cream sauce, thickened with raw egg yolks 
and set aside to cool; when cold wrap up 
some of this egg preparation in thin pan- 
cakes, then dip in frying batter and fry in 
hot fat; serve on a napkin. 

Croquettes d'Oeufs — Egg Croquettes. 

Same preparation as ''''Egg Cromesquis;'' in- 
stead of wrapping them in pancakes give 
them a nice oval shape, and dip in beaten 
eggs ; roll in bread crumbs, fry in hot fat 
and serve on a napkin. 

Fricassi d' Oeufs h V Anglaise — English Egg Fricassee. 
Same as Hard Eggs " a la Tripe," with the 
addition of sliced mushrooms. 

Fritdt d'Oeufs a la Frangaise — Fritdt of Eggs, 
French Fashion. 
Cold poached eggs coated with thick truffle 
sauce put on an oiled dish and set on ice; 
when very cold, dip them in frying batter 
and fry in very hot fat; serve on a napkin. 



Egjs, and Row to Use Cl)em. 135 

Miscellaneous Recipes — Continued. 

Fondue a la Brillat Savarin. 

Fondue is a mixture of cheese, eggs and cream, 
and prepared a^ follows : 

Put eight egg yolks in a pan with a half 
pound of butter broken into little pieces, 4 
ounces each of grated Parmesan and Gruy^re 
cheese; season with salt and cayenne pepper; 
put on the fire and whisk continuously until 
of good consistency, then add two table- 
spoonfuls of thick cream ; serve with toasted 
bread separate. 

The same can be made with ordinary Ameri- 
can cheese. 

Huitres du Bengale — Bengal Oysters. 

Eggs broken into cleaned and buttered oyster 
shells, seasoned with pepper and salt, be- 
sprinkled with bread crumbs and butter, and 
cooked in the oven for a few minutes. 

Huttres de Bombay — Bombay Oysters. 

An egg with only half of its white is broken 
into a goblet seasoned with salt, pepper, and 
lemon juice, or if liked with Worcestershire 
or Tabasco sauce, and swallowed with one 
draught. These eggs are sometimes called 
Prairie oysters. 



136 eggs, and Bow to Use Cbem. 

Miscellaneous Recipes — Continued. 

Oeufs Filds pour Garnitures — Spun Eggs for Gar- 
nishing. 
Urbain Dubois in his '■'■Cuisine de Tous les 
Pays," gives this recipe for spun eggs as a 
garnishing for Spanish ham. 
Beat the egg yolks of fifteen eggs and pass 
tliem through a sieve. Boil some light syrup 
in a copper pan, and pour the egg yolks 
through a funnel into the boiling syrup. 
This funnel, especially made for this pur- 
pose, should have several small tubes attach- 
ed at the bottom, which have an opening, 
about the size of large vermicelli. 
When the eggs are cooked they are taken out 
of the syrup, laid on a hair sieve to strain, 
and besprinkled with a little cold water that 
they may not stick to each other. 

Oeufs Fi Us pour Potage — Spun Eggs for Soup. 

Eight egg yolks mixed with 4 ounces of 
grated Parmesan cheese and one tablespoon- 
ful of flour ; put this pr^aration into a pastry 
bag affixed with a round tube of a small open- 
ing and press the contents into boiling salted 
water. 

Oeufs a la Gambetta — Eggs, Gambetta Style. 

One poached egg and one fried egg, both on 
toast, are garnished with calf's brains and 
truffle sauce. / 



eggs, and Bow to lJs« Cbcm. 137 

Miscellaneous Recipes — Continued. 

Oeufs d. la Niceoise — Eggs, Nice Style. 

Whites of eggs whipped to a stiff froth and 
mixed with thick cream and grated parmesan 
cheese, put on a buttered dish and arrange 
nicely with small cavities large enough to 
lay in the yolks of eggs from which the 
whites were separated and whipped ; cook in 
an oven of moderate temperature. 

Oeufs d, la Totnery — Eggs, Tomery Style. 

Soak a piece of bread, the size of an t.^^ in 
one gill of boiling milk, after it has absorbed 
all the liquor stir it well with a spoon, until 
a pulpy mass; add a little piece of butter, 
season with pepper, salt and grated nutmeg, 
add four spoonfuls of white chicken meat 
cut very fine, two spoonfuls of thick cream 
and four whole eggs well beaten; put this 
preparation into cocotte dishes and cook in 
a slow oven from twelve to fourteen minutes; 
before serving pour over some rich gravy 
mixed with tomato sauce. 

Pat^ d'Oeufs a I' Anglaise — English Egg and Ba- 
con Pie. 
Lay some rashers of bacon on the bottom of a 
china pie dish ; pour over eight eggs beaten 
with a pint of cream and seasoned with salt 
and pepper, cover the dish with short crust 
or puffpaste trimmings baked in a moderate 
oven : serve when cold. 



138 €.&$s, and Row to Use tbem. 

Miscellaneous Recipes — Continued. 

His soles d'Oeufs — Egg Rissoles. 

Roll out some puS-paste trimmings to the 
thickness of ^ of an inch; with the paste 
cutter stamp out some sound pieces of 2)^ 
inches in diameter, and in the centre lay a 
preparation of hard eggs as for "-Egg Cro- 
quettes;" wet the border of the paste with a 
brush dipped in water or in beaten eggs, and 
double it over so as to form a half circle; 
fry in hot fat and serve on a napkin. 

Jioyale Jaune pour Potage — Yellow Custard for 
Soups. 
Beat together four egg yolks and one whole 
egg, mix with one gill of cream, season with 
salt, cayenne pepper and grated nutmeg; fill 
up some small buttered moulds, or one large 
mould, with the above preparation, and cook 
in the water bath as described under "Cus- 
tard." When cooked and cold cut the cus- 
tard in dice or fanciful shapes. 
Green Custard is made in the same manner, 
but colored with spinach green or green 
Breton coloring. 

Red Custard is colored by mixing a thick 
tomato pur6e with the eggs, but then a little 
less cream is used. 



tSS Drinks. 



Egg Flip. 

Egg Flips can be prepared with different kinds 
of liquors, to satisfy all tastes, we append sev- 
eral recipes: 

With Ale and Rum. — Heat one pint of ale, when 
nearly boiling put into a jug; while the ale is 
heating beat twelve whole eggs with two ounces 
of brown sugar and a wineglassful of rum, a 
little grated nutmeg and powdered ginger, and 
pour into another jug; then add the ale, stirring 
all the time, and turn several times from jug to 

jug. 

With Beer. — Pour into a saucepan one gill of 
beer, three well beaten eggs, and two ounces of 
sugar; set on the fire, beat with an egg whisk 
until nearly boiling; then add another gill of 
beer, a little nutmeg and ginger, and serve. 

With Milk and Brandy. — One teacupful of boil- 
ing milk mixed with the stiff froth of the white 
of an egg and a pony of brandy, stir well, and 
sweeten to taste. 

Egg Lemonade. 

Put the juice of one lemon, one ounce of 
sugar, the white of an egg and a small quantity 



140 eggs, ana Boio to lise Cljem. 

of crushed ice into a tumbler; mix well with a 
shaker; add a little ice water, and drink with 
straws. The yolk of an egg may also be added 
if desired. 

Egg Nogg, Baltimore Style. 

Beat up the yolks of three eggs, and ^ of a 
nutmeg grated, with two ounces of prowdered 
sugar, to the consistency of cream; add, pouring 
in quietly the while, }4 gill of brandy or rum, 
and one glass of Marsala or brown sherry; add 
the whites of the eggs (beaten to a stiff froth), 
and, when well incorporated, gill of cream and 
pint of milk. This is not a warm drink and is 
easily digestible; it forms a nourishing dietetic 
beverage for debilitated persons. 

Egg Nog, Iced. 

Beat up the yolk of one egg with a tablespoon- 
ful of water and same of pounded white sugar; add 
one gill of sherry or half gill of brandy, ditto of 
rum, quarter pint of milk; mix together; add 
half gill of shaven ice. 

Egg Nog, Hot; or, " Auld Man's Milk." 

Heat a pint of Scotch ale; add while warming, a 
pinch each of powdered cinnamon, grated nutmeg 
and powdered ginger; beat up the yolks of two 
eggs with a little brown sugar; pour in the ale 
gradually; when well amalgamated add a glass 
of whiskey. 



€jSs, and l^ow to Use Cbem. 141 

Lait de Poule— Hen's Milk. 

The yolks of two eggs mixed with two ounces 
of powdered sugar and two tablespoonfuls of 
orange flower water; beat up well and add half 
pint of boiling milk. 

Mulled Egg Wine. 

Beat up an egg with three glasses of sherry and 
a teaspoonful of sugar; add some grated ginger, 
and carefully half pint of boiling water, stirring 
the while ; grate on a little nutmeg before serving. 

White of Egg Emulsion. 

Beat the whites of two fresh eggs with a few 
tablespoonfuls of milk or cream, half a teaspoon- 
ful of powdered gum-arabic and a small quantity 
of honey or sugar. This is very efficacious to 
swallow gently in sore throat. 

Yolk of Egg Emulsion. 

Is made the same way, substituting the yolks 
of eggs for the whites ; but being more sickly, it 
requires more flavoring. 




MULLED WINE, WITH EGGS. 

First, my dear madam, you must take 

Nine eggs, which carefully you'll break; 

Into a bowl you'll drop the white. 

The yolks into another by it. 

Let Betsy beat the whites with a switch. 

Till they appear quite froth'd and rich. 

Another hand the yolks must beat 

With sugar, which will make them sweet; 

Three or four spoonfuls maybe '11 do. 

Though some, perhaps, would take but two. 

Into a skillet next you'll pour 

A bottle of good wine, or more; 

Put half a pint of water, too. 

Or it may prove too strong for you: 

And while the eggs by two are beating. 

The wine and water may be heating; 

But, when it comes to boiling heat, 

The yolks and whites together beat. 

With half a pint of water more — 

Mixing them well — then gently pour 

Into the skillet with the wine, 

And stir it briskly all the ttme. 

Then pour it off into a pitcher; 

Grate nutmeg in to make it richer; 

Then drink it hot for he's a fool 

Who lets such precious liquor cool. 



BOOKS OF REFERENCE. 



The Deipnosophists Athenaus 

Natural History Pliny 

Tabella Cibaria 

Health Improvements Dr. Muffct 

Popular Antiquities Brand 

The Pantropheon Soyer 

The Book About the Table Jeaffreson 

Antiquitates Culinary Warner 

The Modern Cook de la Chapelle 

Two Fifteenth Century Cook Books 

The Accomplished Cook May 

Art of Cookery Mrs. Glasse 

Culinary Chemistry Williams 

Animal Food Resources of the World Simmonds 

Chemistry of Common Life Johnston 

A Treatise on Food and Dietetics Pavy 

The Science of Nutrition Atkinson 

Historiographie de la Table Verdot 

Grand Dictionaire de Cuisine Dumas 

La Cuisine d'Aujourdhui Dubois 



144 esss, and Bow to Use tljem. 

Meisterwerke der Speisen & Getr'Ai^ke. Bin Aer&'I'etermann 

Le Cuisinier Imperial P'iard 

Physiologie du Got>T Brillat-Savarin 

Cooling Cups and Dainty Drinks Terrington 



MM 



INDEX. 



Part I i 

A Chat with the Reader . . . ; 3 

A Historical, Theoretical and Practical Chapter 

ON Eggs 5 

Friar O'Meara's Song 32 

Part II 34 

Boiled Eggs 37 

Poached Eggs 40 

Eggs Mollet 57 

Scrambled Eggs 63 

Shirred Eggs 



} 



Eggs au Miroir .' 

Fried Eggs 80 

Eggs in Cocottes or Cases 86 

Eggs Moulded in Timbales 93 

Hard Eggs ^ 

Stuffed Eggs y 95 

Cold Eggs ) 

Omelets 106 

Sweet Omelets 123 

Sweet Eggs 128 

Miscellaneous Recipes 133 

Egg Drinks 139 

Mulled Wine, with Eggs (Poem) 142 

Books of Reference 143 

Index i45 



146 eggs, and Bow to ISse Cbem, 

.NOTES. 



esss, and Bow to Use Cbem. 147 

J^OTES. 



^48 eggs, and Bow to Use Cbem. 

NOTES. 



€Sjs, and Row to !Sse CDeni. 149 

NOTES. 



150 esss, and Pouj to lisc Cbem. 

NOTES. 



iiil i i iHl i^^^^^ '.i'l 1 ! : 1 tl 'i 





Hate QlnlUge of Agriculture 

At OforneU ItttaerBttH 
atliaca, ^. $. 



Cornell University Library 
TX 745.M61 



Eggs, and how to use ••'^'T!,:?!.,?.];!'.?.? ,f S!" ' 




3 1924 001 883 929 




The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924001883929 



EGGS, 



How to Use Them. 



A GUIDE FOR THE PREPARATION OF EGGS IN MORE 
THAN FIVE HUNDRED DIFFERENT STYLES 
WITH SOME REFERENCE TO THEIR'" 
IMPORTANCE IN THE PAST 
AND PRESENT TIMES. 



•BY 



ADOLPHE MEYER, M.C.A. 

Author of ''The Post-Graduated Cookery Book," "Dainty Dishes" etc. 



PUBLISHED BY THE CATERER PUBLISHING CO., 

New York. 

third edition. 



TO 

ALL, WHO ACKNOWLEDGE 

THEIR INDEBTEDNESS TO THE EGG; 

THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED. 



Copyright, 1898, by Adolphe Meyes. 



A Chat With the Reader. 



'T'HIS modest little book scarcely deserves the dignity 
of a formal preface. Indeed, it seems as though 
prefaces have gone out of fashion in recent years, though 
they have been proved very useful to authors desirous of 
placing themselves and their subject on a proper footing 
with their readers, before the latter begin the task of 
critically examining their literary wares. 

In the present instance, the writer has ventured to call 
attention to the prominent part which that most common 
yet most useful article of diet, the egg, has played in the 
development of the science and art of cookery, ever since 
primeval man first realized the possibilities of fire and 
water in the proper preparation of food. These pages 
also contain a complete guide, showing the many differ- 
ent ways in which the egg can be treated, so as to please 
the eye as well as the palate. It can be justly 'claimed 
for the egg that it is as popular among the vast multitude 
of those who merely eat to live, as it is with that select 
brotherhood of bon vivants, who only live to eat. 

When all is said, however, the egg must stand alone 

upon its intrinsic merits. Like woman, when an egg is 

good, there is nothing better; when it is bad, there is 

nothing worse. 

The Author. 



INDEX. 



A Chat with the Reader 3 

A Historical, Theoretical and Practical Chapter on Eggs, s 

Friar O'Meara's Song 23 

Part II 25 

Boiled Eggs 26 

Poached Eggs , 28 

Eggs Mollet 45 

Scrambled Eggs So 

Shirred Eggs 



\ 



59 
Eggs au Miroir 

Fmed Eggs 67 

Eggs in Cocottes or Cases 72 

Eggs Moulded iisr Timeales 78 

Hard Ecgs \ 

Stuffed Eggs > 81 

Cold Eggs J 

Omelets 93 

Sweet Omelets 109 

Sweet Eggs 114 

Miscellaneous Recipes 118 

Egg Drinks 124 

Mulled Wine^ with Eggs (Poem) 127 

Books of Reference 128 



PART I. 



A Historical, Theoretical and Practical 
Chapter on E^^s. 

IN all times and in all ages, among all races and in all 
lands, as far back as written history and tradition 
can be traced, the egg has ever been regarded as chief 
among Nature's most precious gifts to mankind. 

This universal popularity has been due not merely to 
the fact that the egg is found in every corner of the 
earth, and that it is a most wholesome and nutritious 
article of food, but also to the additional and very im- 
portant fact that it is continuously and abundantly re- 
produced, ready for immediate use, without the aid or 
assistance of those who benefit by its production. 

Famous cooks, in the past as well as the present, have 
been fully aware how much they are indebted to the egg, 
in the creation of the various sauces and delicacies that 



6 Egg^, o.nd How to Use Them. 

have made their reputation as masters in the art of cook- 
ery. In fact, without the aid of eggs, the artistic cook 
would have to abandon his profession in despair. 

In ancient times the life-giving quality of the egg was 
recognized by the philosophers of those days, who re- 
garded it as the symbol of awakening life, and many 
of them advised their disciples and followers to abstain 
from the use of eggs as food, so as not to destroy the 
germ which Nature had destined for the production of a 
new life. The e^g was also regarded as an emblem of 
the material world, representing the four elements which 
compose it, as follows: — the shell indicating the earth; 
the white, water; the yolk, fire; and the capula (between 
shell and white) being typical of the air. 

Hutchinson, in, his history of Northumberland, says: 
"The egg was held by Egyptians as a sacred emblem of 
the renovation of mankind after the deluge. The Jews 
adapted it to suit the circumstances of their history, as a 
type of their departure from the land of Egypt, and it 
was used in the feast of the Passover as a part of the 
furniture of the table, with the Pascal lamb." 

Greeks and Romans used eggs in their sacrifices, and 
carried them with great pomp, in honor of Ceres, the 
Goddess of Agriculture. 

Pliny, in his natural history, tells the story of Livia, 
the wife of Nero, who, during her pregnancy, consulted 
a fortune teller; and the latter advised her: "Warm in 
your bosom a new-laid tgg until hatched; if a male 
chicken comes forth, thank the Gods, who will grant you 
a son." The Empress followed the advice, as given, 
with the result that her wish was gratified, as she gave 
birth to Tiberius. Her example was followed by many 
of the foremost women of Rome, greatly to the amuse- 
ment of those who watched these proud matrons devote 
themselves to the incubation of chickens. 

Once upon a time eggs played an important part in 
the interpretation of dreams, as is shown by the following 
legend: A man, who dreamed that he had eaten an 
egg, consulted a soothsayer, and that wise man informed 
him that the white of the tgg signified that the dreamer 



Eggs, and How to Use Them. ■ 7 

would, before long, come into the possession of some sil- 
ver, and the yolk meant that he would soon receive some 
goM. The fortunate dreamer soon afterward received a 
legacy consisting partly of those two precious metals. 
He hastened to thank the fortune teller, and offered him 
a piece of silver. "This is very well for the white," said 
the latter, "but is there naught for the yolk?" 

Athenaeus mentions a certain Nichomachus, who said, 
"My father left me very little property. In a few months 
I made it as round as an egg; and, then breaking the 
shell, I made but one gulpi of it." This shows clearly 
that the ancients were partial to soft boiled eggs. 

The Romans were very fond of new laid eggs, which 
formed the first course of every dinner. 

They, asserted that it was necessary to remain at table 
"from the egg to the apple," if one wished to maintain 
himself in health. Hence the adage, "ab ovo usque ad 
mala," or "from the beginning to the end." 

In speaking of this fcustom, the author of the Tabella 
Cibaria cynically remarks, "This expression, 'ab ovo'— 
from the beginning — alludes also to those prolix narrators 
who would begin the history of the siege of Troy by 
recalling the circumstance of Castor and Pollux, as well 
as Helen and Clytemnestra, having been hatched out of 
Leda's egg." This fable is thus aluded to in the Hexa- 
meter: "Pollux and Castor were hatched out of a cou- 
ple of eggs," says our poet (Horace), "yet, you boldly 
call for them, as if you were not afraid of finding there, 
not the Dioscuri, but some Jialf-formed chickens." 

It was a Roman custom to mark the beginning of the 
New Year, which then occurred in March, by presents 
of bright colored eggs in honor of Castor and Pollux. 
This custom still prevails in some countries on New 
Year's Day, but 'it is more commonly followed during 
Easter tide. The eggs are then often made of sugar, 
chocolate, or pasteboard covered with silk, and richly 
decorated with artificial flowers, and, sometimes, they 
have presents of considerable value inside of them. 

Brand, in his Popular Antiquities, has much to say 
as to the origin of Easter eggs. He quotes from Douce's 



8 Eggs, and How to Use Them. 

manuscript notes as follows: "The author of Le Voya- 
geur a Paris supposes that the practice of painting and 
decorating eggs at Easter among the Catholics arose 
from the joy which was occasioned by their returning 
to their favorite food after so long an abstinence from 
them during Lent." 

Elsewhere he speaks of Emilianne's Frauds of Romish 
Monks and Priests, in which are found the following 
passages : "Oh Easter Eve and Easter Day all the heads 
of families send great chargers full of hard eggs to the 
church to get them blessed, which the priests perform by 
saying several appointed prayers, and making great signs 
of the cross over them and sprinkling them with water. 
The priest, having finished the ceremony, demands how 
many dozen eggs there be in every basin." 

"These blessed eggs have the virtue of sanctifying 
the entrails of the body, and are to be the first fat or 
fleshy nourishment they take after the abstinence of 
Lent. The Italians do not only abstain from flesh during 
Lent, but also from eggs, cheese, biitter and all white 
meats. As soon as the eggs are blessed, every one car- 
ries his portion home, and causeth a large table to be set 
in tfee best room in the house, which they cover with 
their best linen, all bestrewed with flowers, and place 
around it a dozen dishes of meat and the great charger 
of eggs in the midst. 'Tis a very pleasant sight to see 
these tables set forth in the houses of great persons, when 
they expose on side tables (round about the chamber) 
all the plates that they have in the house, and whatever 
else they have that is rich and curious, in honor of their 
Easter eggs, which of themselves yield a very fair show, 
for the shells of them are all painted with divers colors 
and gilt. Sometimes there are no less than twenty dozen 
in the same charger, neatly laid together in the form of 
a pyramid. The table continues in the same posture, 
covered all the Easter week, and aH those that came to 
visit them, in that time, were invited to eat an Easter 
egg with them, which they must not refuse." 

As a regular article of diet, eggs, and especially hens' 
eggs, have always been appreciated. The long shaped 



EggSj and How to Use Them. 9 

eggs were considered the best, and to give better nour- 
ishment, as they were cock-eggs (that is, a cock would 
"be hatched from them). The Romans did not confine 
themselves to hen's eggs, but they sought those of the 
partridge and pheasant, and Quintus Hortensius intro- 
.<iuced the use of peafowls' eggs. 

Galen, the first known of physicians, considered those 
of the partridge and the pheasant as the most delicate. 

Dr. Muffett, in his quaint book. Health's Improvement, 
published in London in 1655, has the following to say 
as to the choice of eggs : 

"First ; that they be rather Pullet's eggs, than laid by 
an old Hen. 

"Secondly; that they be not self-begotten, but gotten 
by the Cock upon the Hen. 

"Thirdly; that they be new, white and long; for such 
eggs nourish plentifully, and quickly clear the voice and 
"breast, strengthen the stomach, recover men out of con- 
sumption, and increase nature so much that in continu- 
ance of time they make us wanton. They nourish quick- 
ly, because they are nothing but liquid flesh ; they nourish 
much, because their heat and moisture is proportionable 
Tinto ours. They are wholesomest in the morning, because 
they are then newest. They are best in winter, because hens 
are then fattest, strongest, and best relished; they are 
worst in summer, because hens feed then upon flies, snails, 
cadlocks, and many ill weeds, which rather scours than 
nourishes their bodies. They are best being eaten alone, 
because mingling with other meats, they corrupt the 
stomach, filling men's faces with pimples, morphens and 
freckles. They are ill for young children (especially be- 
ing often eaten), for that their bodies turn them' into 
over hot nourishment, whence itch, scabs, inflammations 
and corruptions do arise. They are also bad for old 
men, because they are hardly digested of a cold stomach. 
Fittest they are for temperate young persons, and such 
as are consumed without any notable fever." 

The learned doctor thus discourses upon the digesti- 
"bility of eggs : "A rare &gg anyway dressed is lightest 
of digestion"; a hard tgg is most rebellious ; an &gg be- 



10 Eggs, OAid Hoiv to Use Them. 

twixt both is of strongest nourishment. Eggs poached 
into water, or verjuice, are fittest for hot complexions, 
or men distempered with agues ; sodden rare in the shell, 
they are soonest converted into blood; but being rare 
roasted in embers they make thickest and strongest blood, 
and are fittest for weak, cold and waterish stomachs." 

In those days, strange as it may seem at this time, it 
was customary to roast eggs. John Dryden, the old Eng- 
lish poet, tells in rhyme of — ■ 

"New laid eggs, with Baucis' busy care 
Turned by a gentle fire, and roasted rare." 

This custom is thus alluded to in Tabella Cibaria: "In 
countries where wood fire is constantly used, the cot- 
tager half buries his eggs in an upright position in hot 
ashes, upon the hearth, and when a clear dew drop oozes 
on the top of the shell the eggs are fit to be eaten. Gas- 
trologers are of the opinion that when done in this way, 
they have a much better flavor than when boiled. Fancy 
goes far in matters of taste." 

The most singular method of cooking eggs is that at- 
tributed to the Egyptian shepherds, who, it is said, were 
able to cook eggs without fire, by placing them in a sling, 
and whirling them around so rapidly that the friction .of 
the air heated them to the exact degree desired. 

Giles Rose, chef of Charles the Second of England, 
gives a recipe for making a giant egg, which was often 
enough served upon the supper tables of the nobility and 
gentry in the seventeenth century. In the words of the 
recipe, "If you would have an eggt so bigge, there is 
an art how it may cover other egges in it, and be not 
known from a natural egge. You shall part fifty, or more, 
yelks of egges and whites, one from the other; mingle 
the yelks gently and put them into a bladder, and bind 
it round as you can ; put it into a pot full of water, and 
when you see it bubble, or when they are grown hard, 
take them out and add the white to them ; so filling the 
yelks that they stand in the middle, and boil them again 
so you shall have an egge made without a shell, which 
you shall frame thus : 

"Powder the white egge shells, clean washed, that 



Eggs, and How to Use Them. 11 

they may fly into dust; steep this into strong or distilled 
vinegar, till thiey grow soft ; for if an sggt be long in vin- 
egar the shell will dissolve and grow tender that it may 
easily be passed through the small mouth of a glass ; when 
it is thrust in with fair water it will come to its former 
hardness, that you will wonder at it; when the shells 
are dissolved like an unguent, with a pencil make a shell 
about your zgge. that is boiled, and let it harden in clear 
water, so shall you have a natural egge." 

In making this giant egg a feature of the royal table, 
Giles Rose desired to show in a material way the value 
and importance of eggs in the estimation of those who 
regard the preparation of food as something more than 
a mere matter of routine drudgery. 

The world-wide popularity of the &gg has made it part 
of the folk-lore of every land; and there are few lan- 
guages in which it is not used to express a homely truth, 
or give point to some wise axiom. 

The French say : "// faut casser des oeufs pour faire 
line omelette^' (to make an omelette it is necessary to 
break eggs) ; or, in other words, one must oftentimes 
make some small sacriiice in order that an enterprise 
should be successful. ■ 

A German adage is, "Aenlich wie ein Ei dem ander- 
en" ; which means a resemblance such as one egg has 
for another. 

The Latin phrase, "Ab ovo usque ad vvala" (from the 
tgg to the apple), or "from the beginning to the end," 
has been already alluded to. 

In English we say, "As full of meat as an egg," which 
is founded on the familiar saying that an tgg contains 
as much nutriment as half a pound of meat. 

In preparing eggs for the table, the Romans cooked 
them in water, in hot ashes, on charcoal, in the frying 
pan, and also pickled them; in fact, they had twenty 
different ways of making the egg pleasing to' the eye as 
well as the taste of the bon vivamts of those days. 

Apicius, a famous epicure of ancient Rome, left many 
recipes that are still extant, and among them we iind 
those on the page following : 



12 Eggs, and How to Use Them. 

Eggs a la Remain e. — Cook several eggs; cut them 
and throw over them a seasoning composed in the fol- 
lowing manner: bruise some pepper, alisander, corian- 
der and rue, to which add garum, honey and a little oil. 

Hard Eggs a I'Athenienne. — Cut each egg in four 
parts, and sprinkle them with garum, oil and wine. 

Fried Eggs a I'Epoenete. — ^Fry several eggs, place 
them in a dish and season with a mixture of pepper, 
alisander, pine nuts, garum and benzoin. 

Egyptian Egg Pudding. — ^Take the yolks of a number 
of hard eggs, reduce them to a paste with crushed pine 
nuts, an onion, a leek, some gravy and pepper; add a 
little wine and garum ; stuff an intestine with the pulp, 
and cook. 

Dish of Eggs d, la Macedonienne. — Put into a mortar 
some pepper, mint, parsley, pennyroyal, cheese and pine 
nuts ; when these are well crushed add honey and vine- 
gar, fresh water and garum, and then a large number of 
yolks of eggs ; mix well with the rest, and throw the 
whole into a saucepan ; add bread soaked in vinegar and 
water, which must be well squeezed out, some fresh 
cows' milk cheese, cucumber, almonds, chopped onions, 
fowls' livers and garum. 

Lesbian Eggs with Roses. — Pluck the leaves of several 
roses, taking only the whitest part, and put them into a 
mortar with garum; stir a long time, add half a small 
glass of gravy; stir and strain; put into the liquor the 
brains of four fowls and eight scruples of ground pep- 
per; stir a long time, and then add to it eight eggs, half 
a small glass of wine, and as much cooked wine^ and 
lastly a little oil. Grease well the inside of a dish, pour 
the whole into it, and place it over a very slow charcoal 
fire, cook, sprinkle with pepper, and serve. 

In the "Forme of Cury" we find a recipe for poached 
eggs, with a sauce of yolks of eggs and milk seasoned 
with saffron and salt. There is also an ^gg soup (brewet 
of ayren) composed of eggs, water, butter, cheese and 
saffron, mixed together and heated, but not boiled, with 
verjuice added before serving. 

In "Two Cookery Books of the Fifteenth Century^' we 



Egg^, <^nd How to Use Them. 13 

find three recipes for eggs, two of which — potage de eggs 
and eyron enpoche — are merely poached eggs. The third 
is called eyroun en Lentyn, which probably means "eggs 
in Lent." In accordance with this recipe, the eggs are 
taken out of the shell and replaced together with milk 
of almonds, colored and seasoned with saffron and cin- 
namon, and then roasted. 

Up to the seventeenth century there was very little im- 
provement in the art of cookery, food being just as much 
overspiced as in the days of the Romans. There was a 
marked change for the better during the seventeenth and 
eighteenth centuries, but the cookery books of that period 
are evidence of the lavish manner in which spices con- 
tinued to be used, in spite of the greatly improved meth- 
ods. 

Robert May, in his "Accomplished Cook" (1665), 
gives sixty-two different styles of cooking eggs, among 
which he includes the recipe for the giant egg of Giles 
Rose. His recipes are nearly all very good, especially 
for making omelettes, of which he mentions twenty-one 
"divers wayes." Although he does not give a name to 
each of these omelettes, the reader readily recognizes 
the familiar "omelette aux fines herbes," "au fromage," 
"au lard," " a la Bonnefemme," "aux rognons et cham- 
pignons," "aux oignons," "aux asperges," etc. 

His "sixteenth way, or according^ to the Turkish mode 
of making an omelette," is curious enough to be men- 
tioned here. The omelette is garnished with the "hinder 
part of a hare, or any other venison," bacon minced 
small, pistachio nuts, hazel nuts, chestnuts, crusts of 
bread cut in slices, and sweet herbs, the dish being dec- 
orated with fried sippets of bread and slices of lemon. 

The "one and twentieth way" is an omelette with on- 
ions and apples, and a sauce of vinegar, or verjuice, but- 
ter, sugar and mustard. 

To dress eggs in the Spanish fashion, called "wivos me 
quidos," is something of a sabaillon served on toast. 

Eggs d la HuguenoUe, or "the Protestant way," is men- 
tioned in many latter day cook books, and consists of 



14 Eggs, and Hozv to Use Them. 

scrambled eggs with mutton, or beef gravy, mushrooms, 
orange juice and grated nutmeg. 

Among the queerly named recipes are "eggs fried as 
round as a ball," "eggs in moonshine," "eggs, or quel- 
quechose," "egg bisk," "a great dish of farced eggs," 
"egg caudle," and many others of similar quaintness 
and oddity of expression. 

As the science of cookery developed, new recipes for 
the preparation of eggs were published from time to 
time. Vincent de la Chapelle, in his "Modern Cook," 
mentions seventy-eight different ways in which eggs 
could be cooked, and it is certain that many of them 
were very extravagant in their requirements. In the 
matter of extravagant recipes, Mrs. Glasse, an English 
authority on the subject, expresses her opinion in the 
most emphatic manner. She says: "A Frenchman in 
his own country will dress a fine dinner of twenty dishes, 
and all genteel and pretty, for the expense he will put 
an English Lord to for dressing one dish. I have heard 
of a, cook that used six pounds of butter to fry twelve 
eggs, when everybody knows (that understands cooking) 
that half a pound is full enough, or more than need be 
used, but then it would not be French. So much is the 
blind folly of this age, that they would rather be im- 
posed on by a French booby than give encouragement 
to a good English cook!" 

The absurdity of the above needs no comment, yet it 
is a positive fact that the imagination of many cooks 
knows no limit. To render a dish expensive is not al- 
ways to make it taste better or more appetizing. 

Viard, in his Cuisinier Imperial, gives a recipe that 
recalls the extravagance of Lucullus. Here it is : "Roast 
twelve ducks underdone; score them down to the bone, 
press all the juice out of them, and put the juice under 
fifteen poached eggs." This dish was called "Oeufs 
poches a Vessence de canards." It reminds one of Bril- 
lat-Savarin's famous dish, "eggs in gravy," and the cir- 
cumstances under which he first prepared it. 

"One day," said this famous authority on gastronomy, 
in telling the story, "I was conducting two ladies to Me- 



Eggs, and How to Use Them. 15 

lun, and on reaching Montgeron, after several hours 
travelling, v/e felt hungry enough to eat an ox. Alas! 
the inn we Stopped at, though it was decent enough look- 
ing, had nothing but an empty larder. Three stage 
coaches and two post chaises had been before us, and, 
like the Egyptian locusts, had devoured everything. 

Looking into the kitchen, however, I saw, turning on 
the spit, a leg of mutton, the very thing wanted. The 
longing glances of the ladies were in vain, for it belonged 
to three Englishmen, who had bought it, and who were 
now patiently waiting and chatting over a bottle of cham- 
pagne. 

"But surely," said I to the cook, in a mingled tone of 
entreaty and annoyance, "you might fry us some eggs 
in the gravy of this roast. With that and a cup of cof- 
fee with country cream in it, we shall be resigned to our 
fate." 

"Certainly," answered the cook, "the gravy I have a 
right to dispose of, and in two minutes you will have 
your dish." 

While he was breaking the eggs I went to the fireplace, 
and, with my traveling knife, made a dozen deep wounds 
in the forbidden "gigot," letting every drop of gravy run 
out. Then, watching the preparation of the eggs, lest 
anything should spoil my plot, I took possession of the 
dish and carried it to our room. We, of course, made 
a capital meal, laughing loudly every time we thought 
of ourselves having the best part of the roast, and our 
friends, the English, chewing the remainder." 

The recipe of the lively author of the Physiologie de 
Gout, has nothing in common with that of Viard. Bril- 
lat Savarin proved that a true gastronomist will always 
find a way to render food agreeable to the taste, while 
Viard was ambitious to shine as a cook of great merit, 
when in reality the chief feature of his recipe was its 
costliness. 

In modern cookery the eggs most commonly used are 
those of hens and ducks, and more rarely those of tur- 
keys and geese; though the eggs of certain fishes and 
reptiles are also in demand. 



16 E.ggs, and How to Use Them. 

Verdot, in his Historiographie de la Table, claims that 
ducks' eggs are best for pastry from the fact that they 
give a brighter color, better taste, and require less but- 
ter, which may be due to the fact that the oil in a duck's 
egg exceeds that of a hen's egg by so much as one- fourth. 

In Europe, more than in the United States, the eggs 
of the plover are by many looked upon as a great deli- 
cacy. They are highly esteemed by ban vivants, and 
often fetch fancy prices. They are usually served as hors 
d'oeuvre, and eaten hard boiled. 

In many countries, especially islands and along the sea 
shores, the inhabitants feed on the eggs of the different 
water birds, many of which, in spite of their fishy diet, 
are said to be of good taste. 

"For many kinds of cooking the eggs of wild birds 
are less valuable, though in the preparation of some 
sauces, where only the yellow portion of the egg is 
used, and where high color and high flavor are both es- 
teemed, two wild bird eggs are considered equal to three 
domestic ones. The flavor of an egg is determined by 
the food of the bird, all or most of it resting in the yel- 
low portion." (Simmonds.) 

The collection of the eggs of wild birds forms a 
branch of considerable industry in many countries. 

During the season, the Jutten and Dassen Islands send 
a daily average of 30,000 penguin eggs to Cape Town, 
and at the little Island of Stylt some 50,000 gulls' eggs 
are collected annually, and quite as many of other sea 
birds. 

In Africa ostrich eggs are eaten, of which one is con- 
sidered equal to twenty-four eggs of our domestic hen. 

Alexandre Dumas pere, the greaf novelist," also author 
of the Grand Dictioncdre de Cuisine, describes therein 
a recipe given him by the cook of the Bey of Arabia, for 
the preparation and making of an omelette of ostrich 
eggs. 

Emu eggs are nearly as large as those of the ostrich, 
and are frequently eaten by hunters and settlers in the 
bush of Australia. 



Eggs, and How to Use Them. 17 

In the way of reptiles' eggs those of different species 
may be mentioned. 

Turtles' eggs are said to be far more nutritious than 
those of the hen. They are in the best eating condition 
when taken from the slain animal ; -and again, those 
which are only imperfectly developed are supposed to be 
the choicest; they then consist chiefly of the yolk and 
taste somewhat like terrapins' eggs. 

I know of a prominent man about town who orders 
three portions of terrapin stew for himself merely to 
partake of the eggs and liver. He is certainly a great 
lover of terrapins' eggs, and would be a good companion 
for that gourmet who ordered six woodcocks just to 
obtain the brains and intestine of the birds. 

Alligators' eggs are eaten by natives. Travelers who 
have eaten some stated to have found them very good. 

Brown, in his work on Guiana, relates a story of a 
lizard which was killed and cut for cooking, and which 
contained ten shellless eggs, midway in size between a 
pigeon and a hen's egg. They were boiled for about 
five minutes and allowed to get cold, and then eaten 
with salt. The yolk had the "consistency of butter" and 
was found to be excellent eating. 

Of fish eggs, an enormous quantity of those of the 
shad, more commonly known as shad roe, are consumed 
in this country. 

The eggs of the sterlet, a species of sturgeon found 
in Russian rivers, are used in the preparation of the finest 
caviare. 

Although there is plenty of caviare made in America 
exported to Europe and shipped back to us as the 
genuine article from Russia. 

Other kinds of eggs largely used in cookery and of 
which ninety per cent, of ordinary people have no knowl- 
edge, are the spawn of the Crustacea, as lobsters, crabs 
and shrimps. They are pounded in the mortar mixed 
with butter and used for coloring and flavoring sauces. 

The coral out of the body of the lobster is used for 
the same purpose and is also employed for decorating. 

The Chinese regard eggs which are partly hatched 



18 Eggs, and How to Use, Them. 

as the most dainty of tid-bits; and, contrary to what 
you would think, eggs in that condition are odorless. 

As to the different ways of eating eggs, the old adage, 
"De gustibus nan est disputandum," reigns suprenie. It 
is true that "fancy goes far in matters of taste." The 
simplest way, and the one most generally followed, is 
to have the eggs boiled. Here again, however, many 
conflicting ideas are encountered. Dumas asserts that 
the best way to eat a fresh egg is a la coqiM, that is to 
say, soft boiled in that fashion it loses none of its quali- 
ties. His recipe is to put the egg into cold water, which 
must be gently heated until it comes to the boiling point, 
at which instant the egg will be properly cooked. 

From experience it can be stated that this is an un- 
certain method, as it all depends upon the quantity of 
water and the degree of heat underneath the vessel con- 
taining the tgg. 

Mattieu Williams, in his Culinary Chemistry, recom- 
mends the boiling of eggs in the "bain marie," or water 
bath. "In this case," he says, "a thermometer should 
be used, and the water surrounding the egg must be 
kept at or near 180 degrees Fahr-enheit, the time of im- 
mersion being ten or twelve minutes." 

The results of this method are superior to any other, 
it is claimed, and eggs cooked in this way are "tender 
and delicate, evenly so throughout; no part being hard, 
while another part is semi-raw and slimy." 

The third method, and the one usually practiced by 
cooks, is the plunging of eggs into boiling water. Al- 
though not adopted by everybody as the true and only 
method, it is the one on which the cook can most safely 
depend to satisfy consumers. A standing law in cookery 
is that an egg, immersed as stated above, from two to 
two and a half minutes, is very soft boiled; from three 
to four minutes, it is soft; five minutes it is medium, 
that is the white is firm and the yolk is soft ; from eight 
to ten minutes' immersion makes the egg hard. 

In plunging eggs, especially fresh eggs, into boiling 
water, the shell is liable to burst. This is caused by the 
sudden exposure to the heat, which expands the albu- 



Eggs, and Hozv to Use Them. ' 19 

men and causes the shell to give way. To prevent the 
breaking of the shell, only a small quantity of water 
should be used. The eggs will thus lower the tempera- 
ture of the water sufRciently to allow a little of the in- 
ner liquid of the egg to force its way through the shell, 
so that the latter will not burst. Stale eggs are not 
likely to. burst, as the shell being porous has permitted the 
evaporation of the fluid. 

There are different ways in which to judge the fresh- 
ness of eggs. The most popular method is to test their 
translucency by holding them in front of a bright light. 
If the eggs are fresh, they will be clearly transparent; 
if they are stale, or decomposed, the light will seem dull 
and cloudy. 

Another way of testing an egg is to place it in a so- 
lution of salt and water, in which there are ten ounces 
of water to one ounce of salt. If the egg is fresh, it will 
sink slowly to the bottom. The older the egg, the more 
slowly it will sink, and a bad egg will float on the sur- 
face. 

There is still another way of testing the freshness 
of an egg, and that is by touching the larger end of the 
egg with the tip of the tongue. If the egg is fresh, it will 
feel cold ; if stale, it will feel warm. This is due to the 
air bubble between the shell and the skin, which in stale 
eggs is much larger than in fresh ones, owing to the 
evaporation of the fluids. The eggshell is perforated 
with innumerable small pores, which, though too minute 
to be seen with the naked eye, are -large enough to per- 
mit air entering them, and by taking the place of the 
evaporated fluids causes the decay' of the egg. 

Many different methods are used to prevent this evap- 
oration, and thereby preserve eggs in good condition 
for a long time. The most effectual method is by cover- 
ing the egg with some greasy substance. Sometimes 
they are dipped into melted mutton and beef suet, but 
these are liable to become rancid. It would be better 
to use wax, or parafine ; even olive oil would answer bet- 
ter. An excellent way to preserve eggs is to cover them 
with a solution of gum arable and gelatine. Some deal- 



20 ^SS^, <^^ How to Use Them. 

ers, I have been told, immerse eggs in oil of vitriol di- 
luted with water, with the result that a part of the shell 
is dissolved in the acid, thus forming sulphate of lime, 
which fills up the pores. Great quantities of eggs are 
preserved by liming. These, however, are. not fit for 
iDoiling, as they generally have a disagreeable taste. 

The Scotch method of preserving eggs is to plunge 
them into boiling water, heated to 140 degrees, keep them 
there five seconds in order to coagulate the albumen next 
to the shell, and afterwards rub them with oil or suet. 

"The Chinese fashion of preserving eggs is as follows : 
They are covered with a paste of quicklime, sea salt and 
oak ashes, and thus packed away for three months in 
boxes separated by each other by rice husks. As a mat- 
ter of taste they are not nice, the white being coagulated 
and the yolks having turned green, while the smell is any- 
thing but pleasant." 

A better method of preserving eggs would be to pickle 
them. In England and the United States this is done 
often enough. When eggs are plentiful, as in Spring 
or the early part of Summer, they are boiled hard, the 
shells removed, put into earthen jars, and boiling vinegar 
seasoned with whole-pepper, allspice, bayleaves, thyme, 
onions and garlic is then poured over them; and in this 
way they will keep for quite some time, even for years. 
Thus pickled they form an agreeable accompaniment to 
cold meats. 

The dessication of eggs comes more and n;ore into 
practice. They are prepared in three forms, the first con- 
taining all the principles of the whole egg, while the 
others contain but the yolk or the white only. . 

It is claimed that dessicated eggs are just as palatable 
and just as nutritious as when in their fresh state. If 
this is really so they would be very useful to the traveler 
and soldier. At the present time dessicated eggs are 
only used by bakers and those who have more the point 
of economy than quality in view. 

When eggs are stored away, the small end should be 
uppermost, as the yolk is liable to adhere. to the shell if 
thev are laid on the side. 



Eggs, and How to Use Them. 21 

The packing of eggs in bran, wood ashes, or salt, is 
likely to prove unsatisfactory, as the air will find its way 
through these substances to the eggs. 

Eggs should never be packed away in musty straw, 
as it is liable to impart an unpleasant flavor to them. 
This susceptibility of eggs to surrounding odors can be 
used to advantage when fresh truffles are in season. 
Eggs placed in contact with these tubers for forty-eight 
hours will absorb the agreeable perfume of the truffle. 
A soft-boiled egg flavored with truffle would delight the 
most exacting of gourmets. 

The mention of soft boiled eggs brings to mind the 
many, seemingly, endless arguments that have arisen as 
to their digestibility. 

According to Dr. Beaumont's Table of Digestion, the 
soft boiled egg requires three hours for digestion; the 
hard egg taking thirty minut'es longer. The reason for 
this difference in time is that the white of the egg, being 
almost pure albumen, is more readily acted upon by the 
gastric juices when it is soft. For this same reason a raw 
egg needs only two hours for digestion. 
, Persons of sedentary habits, or those whose stomachs 
are easily affected, should only eat eggs that are soft 
boiled, or poached ; while those fortunate individuals who 
have plenty of exercise, can eat any kind of cooked eggs 
without fear of injuring their digestive powers. 

Raw eggs mixed with sugar and sherry, or brandy, 
are an excellent stimulant and restorative, and, at the 
same time, they are slightly laxative. Hard eggs, on 
the contrary, are said to cause constipation. On this 
point. Dr. Muffett must be quoted once more, where he 
tells in quaint language, that "Brassavola reporteth a 
monk to have been made costiff with hard eggs that no 
art was available to give him on stool." 

Johnston, in his Chemistry of Common Life, says : 
"The egg, as a whole, is richer in fat than fat beef. It 
is equalled in this respect, among common kind of food, 
only by pork and by eels. It is of interest to remark, 
however, that the white of the egg is entirely free from 
fat, and that albumen is a very constipating variety of 



22 Eggs, and How to Use Them. 

animal food, so that it requires much fat to be eaten with 
it, when consumed in any quantity, in order that this 
quahty may be counteracted. It is no doubt because 
experience has long ago proved this in the stomach of 
the people, that 'eggs and bacon' have been the popular 
dish among Gentile nations from time immemorial." 

Eggs are certainly very nutritious, as they contain 
fourteen parts, in a hundred, of albumen. They are 
therefore, weight for weight, almost as valuable for 
strengthening and tissue making as muscular flesh. Eggs 
are also regarded by many as an excellent brain food, 
owing to the large percentage of phosphorus which they 
contain. A story is told of a German scholar who took 
refuge in a barn from the infuriated soldiery. During 
two weeks this man -lived on one egg a day, innocently 
furnished by a hen, whose nest was within his reach. 
This shows not only that a man can subsist on a small 
amount of nourishment, but also that eggs are among 
the most perfect foods possessed by mankind. 

It is true, however, that eggs are not beneficial to every 
one. Some persons of a very delicate digestion may find 
eggs a satisfactory and pleasant article of diet, while 
others far more robust may find them extremely hurtful. 

A few figures as to the number of eggs consumed each 
year in the United States will show the widespread popu- 
larity of the egg as an article of food. 

Dr. E. Atkinson, in The Science of Nutrition, says, "In 
our factory boarding houses in Massachusetts the con- 
sumption of eggs per adult is one every other day. One 
Qgg every other day, at sixteen and a half cents a dozen, 
comes to three dollars a year per adult. We may com- 
pute our present population as being equal to fifty million 
adults; fifty million adults, at three dollars each, would 
spend one hundred and fifty million dollars a year for 

eggs." 

Simmonds, in his book, Animal Food Resources of the 
World, says "the egg traffic of the United States is ex- 
ceedingly large." 

"The aggregate transactions in the City of New York 
are said to amount $8,000,000 in value." 



Eggs, and How to Use Them. 23 

The same authority says that "over 20,000 carloads of 
live and dressed poultry are carried into New York City 
yearly, and 25,500,000 dozen of eggs go to the same 
market." "According to the best authorities the United 
States produce nine thousand million of eggs annually." 

Figures are facts, and the above, which is far from 
being exaggerated, tends to prove that eggs play a greater 
part in the preservation of mankind than many persons 
are willing to admit. 



FRIAR O'MEARA'S SONG. 

BY FATHER PROUT (rEV. FRANCIS MAHONy). 

Why then, sure it was made by a learned owl. 

The "rule" by which I beg. 
Forbidding to eat of the tender fowl 
That hangs on yonder peg. 
But, rot it ! no matter : 
For here on a platter. 
Sweet Margaret brings 
A food fit for kings ; 
And a meat 
Clean and neat — 
That's an egg! 
Sweet maid. 
She brings me an egg newly laid! 
And to fast I need ne'er be afraid ! 
For 'tis Peg' 
That can find me an egg. 

Three different ways there are of eating them; 

First boiled, then fried with salt, — 
But there's a particular way of treating them. 



24 Eggs, and How to Use Them. 

Where many a cook's at fault : 
For with parsley and flour 
'Tis in Margaret's power 
To make up a dish, 
Neither meat, fowl, nor fish; 
But in Paris they call't 
A neat 
Omelette. 
Sweet girl ! 
In truth, as in Latin, her name is a pearl, 

When she gets 
Me a platter of nice omelettes. 

Och ! 'tis all in my eye, and a joke. 
To casting a sorrowful yoke; 

Sure, of Dublin-bay herrings a keg, 

And an egg. 
Is enough for all sensible folk ! 
Success to the fragrant turf-smoke. 
That curls round the pan on the fire ; 
While the sweet yellow yolk 
From the, egg-shell is broke 
In that pan, 
Who can, 
If he have but the heart of a man. 
Not feel the soft flame of desire. 
When it burns to a clinker the heart of a friar? 



PART II. 



ALTHOUGH most cook books contain a large num- 
ber of recipes for the preparation of eggs in a 
variety of styles, yet there are really not more than a 
■dozen distinctly different methods of cooking eggs ; and 
they may be classified as follows : boiled, poached, mollet ; 
shirred, or mi miroir; scrambled, , fried ; in cocottes, or 
<;ases ; moulded in timbales; hard, stuffed, cold, omelettes, 
sweet; and a few miscellaneous styles which can not be 
very well specially classified. 

In writing this little book, it has not been my inten- 
tion to produce a long and learned treatise upon the art 
of cookery, but simply to give, in the fewest possible 
words, directions for the proper preparation of eggs in 
any of the above mentioned styles. By this means a per- 
son, who orders eggs prepared in a certain way, can have 
some idea of the manner in which they are made ready 
for his use; and at the same time these directions may 
be of service to the professional cook by explaining briefly 
the details of preparation in each of the widely varying 
styles of egg cookery. 

As no other article of food offers so much scope for 
the inventive genius of a thoughtful cook as the egg, 
it may be that there is still greater diversity of styles of 
preparing it for the table than those I have mentioned. 
If so, I ask the kind indulgence of such of my readers 
as may, perchance, know of some excellent way of cook- 
ing eggs that has not come to my knowledge. 

"To err is human," said the old Latin poet, who also 
hastened to add, "but to forgive is divine." 



26 Egg-s, and Hozv to Use Them. 



Boiled Eggs. 



IN the first part of this book allusion was made to the 
various ways in which eggs can be boiled, and it is 
surprising that, in what is seemingly so simple a matter, 
so many questions can arise for serious consideration 
before a final decision is reached as to which of several 
methods should be adopted. Under circumstances where 
the saving of time is no consideration, and where the 
man who orders his eggs boiled expects to get them, 
as they ought to be, "tender and delicate," the following 
method should be employed : 

For six eggs have one quart of boiling. water; plunge 
in the eggs and leave them for five to eight minutes 
without boiling. The eggs will lower the temperature 
of the water, and bring it to about 180°, that is 30° less 
than the boiling point. The white will then be of a 
creamy consistency, and more apt to blend with the yolk, 
and also be easier of digestion. 

Another method, commonly adopted in hotel and 
restaurant kitchens, is to plunge the eggs into boiling 
water; and after an immersion of two to two and a half 
minutes the eggs are regarded as very soft; after three 
to four minutes, soft; after five to six minutes, medium; 
and after eight to ten minutes, hard. 

I do not consider this method as the best, though hotel 
and restaurant cooks rely upon it as the safest, in spite 
of the fact that oftentimes the result has been disappoint- 
ing, even when, watch in hand, exactitude in time has 



Eggs, and How to Use Them. 27 

been observed. Few are aware of the fact that the cause 
of such disappointment is due largely to the freshness of 
the eggs. Mention has been previously made of the fact 
that the fluids of the egg will evaporate day by day, leav- 
ing greater density to the white of the egg, which there- 
fore will coagulate more quickly than the white of a fresh 
laid egg, which is very watery in substance. 

Another important factor to be considered in boiling 
eggs is their temperature. Eggs taken from an ice box 
will cool the water much more than those that have been 
in the usual kitchen temperature several hours, and the 
former therefore require longer time to cook than the 
latter. Every cook should adopt a certain system, 
founded upon his personal experience in boiling eggs, 
so as to suit the different tastes which he endeavors to 
satisfy. 

Still another system of boiling eggs is to put them 
into a sufficient quantity of cold water and cover them. 
When the water begins to boil, the eggs are ready to be 
served. This, in the writer's opinion, is the second best 
method. 

Eggs can also be steamed, and that method has been 
adopted in a number of hotels. 

Some few years ago a mechanical device for correctly 
timing the boiling of eggs was introduced into many 
restaurant and hotel kitchens, and was warmly welcomed 
by many cooks, as it relieved them of all blame if the 
eggs were not satisfactorily cooked. It consisted of a 
wire basket with an automatic attachment, by means of 
which the basket came out of the water when the eggs 
had been in the boiling water the number of minutes 
desired by the person ordering them. 



28 Egg^j <^wd How to Use Them. 



Poached Eggs. 

POACHED eggs are nothing more nor less than eggs 
boiled' without the shell. 

The most important requisite is that the eggs should 
be fresh, as stale eggs will never poach well, even if the 
greatest care is used in handling them. 

There are two distinct methods of poaching eggs, and 
that the reader may judge for himself which is the more 
preferable, the recipes for both are appended. The first 
method, in accordance with the directions given by most 
of the French authors on the art of cookery, is as fol- 
lows : 

Have three quarts of boiling water in a shallow pan, 
and for each quart add a tablespoonful of vinegar and a 
teaspoonful of salt. Break three or four eggs into the 
water, just where it is boiling, and with a skimmer gently 
turn the egg so that it may take an elongated shape. As 
Soon as the eggs are firm take them out with the skimmer, 
and put them into cold water; before serving put them, 
for a few minutes, into hot water again. 

The second method, usually followed in America and 
England, is the following: 

Have three quarts of boiling water in a shallow pan; 
salt it slightly, and drop into it three or four eggs ; do 
not allow the water to boil any. longer, and leave the eggs 
in it about three minutes, until the white is firm; then 
take them "out, trim them, and serve on toast, or as 
directed. 

There is very little difference between the above two 



Eggs, and How to Use Them. 29 

recipes save the omission of vinegar in the second one. 
Many French cooks claim that vinegar possesses the 
property of giving a good shape to the tgg while it is 
being poached. I claim, however, and I do so from ex- 
perience, that vinegar (or verjuice, which was used in 
bygone days) has no other effect than to make the white 
of the egg tough; and, therefore, I prefer the second 
method, as it does not allow the water to boil after the 
eggs are put into it. In this I follow the theory of 
Mattieu Williams, and the result is more satisfactory to 
the cook and more beneficial to the eater. 

Poached eggs are often ordered by physicians for con- 
valescent patients. In such cases the eggs should always 
be served perfectly plain, without sauces or condiments. 
They are usually served on toast, or on crusts of bread 
shaped like the egg. These crusts are scooped out, fried 
in butter, and filled with divers garnishings. Crusts of 
puff-paste can be substituted advantageously for those 
of bread; they are then shaped. into round or oval tartlet 
moulds, according to the taste of the cook. 



30 Eggs, and Hozv to Use Them. 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poches 

a la Agostini — Agostini. 

Eggs served on a bed of plain boiled rice surrounded 
with tomato sauce prepared as follows : chop one 
large onion very fine, and smother in olive oil until 
throughly cooked, then add six tomatoes which were 
previously peeled, the seeds pressed out and cut in 
small pieces ; when the tomatoes are reduced to a 
pulp add a little rich gravy and a tablespoonful of 
beef extract; season lightly with red pepper. 

a I'Aigre-doux — imth Sour-Sweet Sauce. 

Eggs served on toast; Madeira sauce mixed with 
currant jelly potired over them. 

a I' Alsacienne — Alsatian Style. 

Eggs served on slices of fat goose liver; Madeira 
sauce over them. 

(2) Tartlet crusts filled with puree of sorrel ; a round 
slice of lean ham placed on top of the sorrel and 
the eggs dished up on top of the ham, with rich 
gravy poured over all. 

a I' Americaine — American Style. 

Cut tomatoes in halves; squeeze out the seeds; sea- 
son with salt and pepper ; besprinkle with butter and 
bake in the oven, then fill with a lobster hash cooked 
with cream; put the eggs on top, and cover with 
cream sauce. 

a I'Amiral — Admiral's Fashion. 

Fill some crusts, made of pufifpaste, with a chicken 
hash and truffles in cream ; put the poached eggs on 
top and cover with cream sauce. 



£gg^j <^nd Hoiv to Use Them. 31 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poches 

a I'Arlequin — Harlequin's Fashion. 

Eggs served on toast; cream sauce poured over; 
besprinkle with chopped beeftongue, truffles and 
parsley. 

a I'Aurore — Aurora. 

Eggs covered with half tomato and half cream sauce 

mixed ; besprinkle with chopped hard boiled yolk of 

egg- 
a la Baron Brisse — Baron Brisse Style. 

Eggs dished up on round flat chicken croquettes; 

cream sauce poured over and streWn with finely 

chopped truffles. 

a la Bayonnaise. 

Cut round slices of bread and some of pumpkin of 
the same size, just a little larger than the poached 
Ggg; fry them both in butter, put the pumpkin on 
the bread and the egg on the pumpkin ; pour over a 
cream sauce mixed with puree of onions. 

a la Bayard — Bayard. 

Eggs served on pate de foie gras toast, covered with 
a garnishing of shredded ham, truffles, and mush- 
rooms heated in Madeira sauce. 

a la Bearnaise — with Bearnaise Sauce. 

Eggs served on toast and covered with Bearnaise 

sauce. 
a la Belle-Helene — Belle Helena Style. 

(1) Eggs served on flat, round chicken croquettes, 
cream sauce poured over and garnished with 
asparagus tips tossed in butter. 

(2) Another method is to dish up the eggs on 
croquettes made with asparagus tips ; cream sauce 
poured over. 

a la Belloy — Belloy Style. 

Eggs on a thick sHce of smoked beeftongue heated 
in Madeira; pour over cream sauce blended with 
puree of spinach. 



32 Eggs, and Hoiv to Use Them. 

Poached Kggs — Oeufs Poches 

a la Benedict — Benedict. 

Split and toast some small muffins; put on each a 
nice round slice of broiled ham, and on the ham the 
poached egg; pour over some Hollandaise sauce. 

a la Bignon — Bignon. 

Have some light chicken cream forcemeat, with 
which dress (with the aid of a pastry bag) some 
rings on the dish on which the eggs are to be served ; 
cover them with a white buttered paper, and cook for 
four or five minutes in a slack oven. In the centre 
of each ring put the eggs and pour over a veloute 
sauce reduced with some good chicken stock and 
cream and besprinkle with chopped tarragon leaves. 

a la Blanchard — Blcmchard Style. 

Have muffins split and toasted; put a slice of 
broiled ham on each half, poached eggs on top 
and truffle sauce over all. 

a la Bombay — Bombay Style. 

Eggs dished up on a bed of plain boiled rice. 
Cream curry sauce, to which has been added some 
finely minced green and red peppers, poured on 
the dish around the rice. 

d la Bohemienne — Bohemian Style. 

Eggs served on halves of tomatoes stuffed with 
gooseliver and chopped mushrooms; pour over a 
cream sauce mixed with puree of tomatoes. 

a la Boieldieu — Boieldieu. 

Fill some bread crusts with fresh tomatoes which 
were previously peeled, squeezed and cut in eighths 
(or if the tomatoes are large still smaller) and cooked 
in oil until perfectly dry; put on each crust an egg; 
and cover with veloute cream sauce. 

a la Bonnefoy — Bonnefoy. 

Make a puree of half game and half pate de foie 
gras to which add some chopped truffles; heat the 
puree and put in some china cases ; serve the poached 
eggs on top and cover with veloute sauce reduced 
with game stock. 



Eggs, and Hozv to Use Them. 33 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poches 

d la Bonvalet — Bonvalet. 

Cut some round slices of bread, fry them in clarified 
. butter and place on each a poached egg; cover the 
eggs with a well-reduced veloute sauce; on the 
outer rim of the crust put some Bearnaise sauce 
mixed with tomato puree. 

a la Bostonienne — Boston Style. 

Eggs served on small round fish cakes surrounded 
with cream sauce. 

au Bouillon — in Broth. 

"Eggs served in broth or consomme. 

a la Bourguignone — Burgundy Style. 

Eggs poached in Burgundy wine and served on fried 
slices of bread ; with the remaining wine and a little 
beef extract the sauce is prepared by thickening it 
with a little butter kneaded with flour. 

a la Brebant — Brebant. 

Crusts of pufif-paste filled with a puree of quails 
and pate de foie gras ; poached eggs on top and cov- 
ered with Madeira sauce. 

d la Bretonne — Britanny Style. 

Eggs served on oval shaped slices of smoked beef- 
tongue heated in Madeira, covered with brown sauce 
mixed with a puree of onions. Instead of brown 
sauce one made of cream may be served. 

d la Cafe Anglcds — Cafi Anglais. 

With a chicken and lobster forcemeat dress rings 
on a dish the same as for eggs d la Bignon; cook 
them for a few minutes, put in the eggs and cover 
with crayfish sauce. 

d la Cardinal — Cardinal's Fashion. 

Eggs served on toast and covered with lobster sauce 
besprinkled with chopped lobster coral. 



34 Eggs, and How to Use Than. 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poches 

a la Celestine — Celestine. 

Rd^uffins split and toasted are covered with a slice 
of broiled ham upon which poached eggs are laid; 
pour over some cream sauce mixed with cheese, 
and gratinate under a salamander or in a very hot 
oven. 

aux Champignons — with Mushrooms. 

Mushrooms sliced and heated in Madeira sauce 
poured over the eggs. 

a la Chantilly — Chantilly. 

Crusts of bread filled with shredded truffles in cream ; 
eggs on top ; cream sauce with a little beef extract 
poured over. 

a la Colbert — Colbert Style. 

Eggs on fried slices of bread covered with Colbert 
sauce ; or serve in rings of chicken forcemeat with 
the abo.ve sauce. 

a la Comtesse— Countess Style. 

Puff-paste crusts filled with asparagus tips ; eggs on 
top covered with cream sauce. 

a la Conde — Condi Style. 

Eggs on puree of foie gras toast; Veloute cream 
'sauce poured over; garnished with chicken cro- 
quettes in ithe shape of small balls (2 to each 

a la Coquelin — Coquelin Style. 

Eggs served on broiled ham and garnished with 
quartered artichoke bottoms tossed in butter; 
Hollandaise sauce poured over the eggs and on 
top a slice of truffle. 

d la Creme — with Cream. 

Eggs served on toast and covered with cream sauce. 



Eggs, and How to Use Them. 35 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poches 

a la Creme d'Asperges — with Cream of Asparagus. 

Crusts of bread, or of puff-paste, filled with a puree 
of asparagus mixed with cream sauce; eggs served 
on top. 

a la Crhne de Celeri — ivith Cream, of Celery. 

Served the same way as the aforegoing ; use a puree 
of celery instead of asparagus. 

sur Croute — on Crusts. 

Crusts for poached eggs can be either made of plain 
bread or puff-paste. 

Bread Crusts. — Cut slices of sandwich bread about 
three-eighths of an inch to one inch in thickness; 
give them an oval shape, or they may be cut round ; 
with a small pointed knife make an incision on the 
top all around the border ; then fry in clarified butter ; 
after the crusts are cooled of? slightly, take off the 
cover and scoop out all the soft part of the bread; 
this hollow part is generally filled with the diverse 
purees, garnishings, etc. 

Puff-paste Crusts. — Roll out some puff-paste trim- 
mings to a thickness of about one-eighth of an inch ; 
line with some tartelet moulds and fill them up with 
split peas or dried white beans ; bake in a quick oven 
from twelve to fifteen minutes ; take out the peas 
and beans and the. crusts are ready for using. 

d, la Cussy — Cussy. 

Bread crusts filled with a ragotit of breast of quail, 
fat goose liver and truffles, all cut in squares and 
mixed with brown sauce; eggs on top and covered 
with veloute cream sauce. 

d la Danton — Danton Style. 

Eggs on toasit, Venetian sauce poured over, gar- 
nished with calf's brain fritters a la Villeroi. 

a la Daumont — Daumont. 

Eggs served in chicken forcemeat borders, as eggs 
a la Bignon, and covered with onion cream sauce. 



36 Eggs, and How to Use Them. 

Poached Eggs — Oeiifs Poches 

a la Dauphine — Dauphine. 

Bread crusts filled with asparagus tips ; eggs on top 
and Madeira sauce with sliced mushrooms poured 
over. 

a la Diable — Deviled. 

Eggs on fried slices of bread; deviled sauce poured 
over them. 

d la Ducliesse — Duchesse Style. 

Eggs served on small flat Duchess potato cakes 
covered with Colbert sauce. 

d la Dumas^-Dumas. 

Eggs covered with horseradish cream sauce, be- 
sprinkled with grated Parmesan cheese and a little 
melted butter; gratinated under the salamander or 
in a hot oven. 

a I'Eca/rlate — Ecarlate. 

Eggs on slices of smoked or pickled beef-tongue 
and cream sauce. 

aux Ecrevisses — with Crayftsh. 

Eggs on toast covered with crayfish sauce, mixed 
with crayfish tails. 

aux Epinards — with Spinach. 

Eggs on a bed of finely chopped and well-seasoned 
spinach, surrounded with a rich gravy. 

a I'Espagnole — Spanish Style. 

Eggs on a layer of risotto seasoned with onions, 
saffron and tomatoes, surrounded with tomato sauce. 

a I'Bstragon — with Tarragon. 

Rich veal gravy with chopped tarragon leaves 
poured over the eggs. 



^Si^i o^d Hoiv to Use Them. 2)7 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poches 

a la Fedora — Fedora Style. 

Egg served on artichoke bottoms filled with puree 
of foie gras; Bordeaux sauce with small cubes of 
parboiled marrow poured over. 

d, la Florentine — Florence Style. 

Eggs served on artichoke bottoms; cream sauce 
with chicken and mushrooms cut in small squares 
poured over. 

& la Georgette — Georgette. 

Large baked potatoes cut in halves and scooped out ; 
put one poached egg in each half and cover with a 
cream sauce mixed with Parmesan cheese and melted 
butter, then gratinate under the salamander or in a 
very hot oven. 

a la Gerifiaine — Germaine. 

Eggs on large-sized fresh mushrooms covered with 
a sauce colbert, to which chopped tarragon leaves 
are added. 

des Gourmets — Gourmet's Fashion. 

Eggs on pate de foie gras toast, covered with Bear- 
naise sauce., 

d la Gounod — Gounod. 

Eggs on mushrooms, cooked in oil, and covered 
with a well-reduced and buttered tomato sauce. 

a la Heloise — Heloise. 

Puff-paste crusts filled with a ragoiit of square cut 
truffles, chicken and smoked beeftongue in cream; 
eggs on top with thick tomato sauce. 

d, la Hussard — Hussard. 

Halves of tomatoes stuffed with chopped ham and 
mushrooms; eggs on top covered with cream sauce. 



38 Eggs, and Hoiv to Use Them. 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Podies 

d I'Imperiale — Imperial Fashion. 

Eggs on foie gras toast; veloute cream sauce over 
the eggs and besprinkled with shredded truffles. 

d I'Indienne — Indian Style. 

Eggs on a bed of plain boiled rice; cream curry 
sauce surrounding it. 

au Jambon — with Ham. 

Eggs on broiled or fried slices of ham. 

d la lean Bard — Jean Bard Style. 

Eggs served on itoast with a slice of ham. Mix 
minced shallots and mushrooms (cooked in but- 
ter) with Supreme sauce; finish with lemon juice 
and chopped parsley and pour over eggs. 

a la Jeanette — leanette Style. 

Eggs served on small crusts filled with artichoke 
bottoms and truffles (cut in small squares and 
added to brown sauce) ; Veloute cream sauce 
poured over and on each egg a small round slice 
of smoked beeftongue (heated). 

au Jus — mth Gravy. 

The best gravy to use with eggs is veal gravy ; how- 
ever, it can be substituted by some other kind, and 
if none at hand some light brown sauce, to which 
a little beef extract is added, may be used. 

a la Karolyi — Karolyi. 

Eggs on broiled slices of ham, covered with tomato 
sauce, seasoned with paprika pepper. 

au Lard- — with Bacon. 

Eggs served on toast, garnished with broiled or 
fried strips of bacon. 

d la Lyonnaise — Lyonese Style. 

Eggs on artichoke bottoms ; brown sauce with onion 
puree poured over. 



Eggs, and Horv to Use Them. 39 

Poached Eggs. — Oeufs Poches 

a la Magenta — Magenta. 

Eggs on crusts filled with crayfish tails in cream; 
cream sauce, finished with crayfish butter, poured 
over the eggs, garnished with asparagus tips. 

a la Marec.hale — Marshal Style. 

Round slices of ham (coated on one side with 
cream-chicken forcemeat and cooked in a slack 
oven) placed on a dish; on each slice one egg; 
cover with Supreme sauce mixed with chopped 
truffles. 

en Matelote — Mariners' Fashion. 

Eggs on fried slices of bread ; claret sauce garnished 
with small glazed onions and mushrooms poured 
over them. 

a la Maximilien — Maximilian Style. 

English muffins split and toasted and spread with 
a thick layer of puree of chicken; eggs placed on 
top and covered with cream sauce mixed with a 
puree of red peppers. / 

a la Mazarin — Masarin. 

Halves of tomatoes stuffed with liver forcemeat 
mixed with chopped truffles, mushrooms, beeftongue 
and breast of partridge or chicken ; eggs on top and 
brown tarragon sauce poured over. 

a la Melba — Melba Style. 

Eggs on toast garnished with oyster crabs a la 
Newburg and small anchovy fritters. 

a la Mignon — Mignon Style. 

Pastry crusts filled with asparagus tips tossed in 
butter; eggs served on top and Hollandaise sauce 
poured over. 



40 £gS^' ^'^^ Hozv to Use Them. 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poches 

d la Mirabeau — Mirabeau Style. 

Eggs on toasit with fine strips of anchovy fillets 
laid over them in star shape ; garnish with stoned 
and sliced Spanish olives and Julienne potatoes; 
Madeira sauce. ■ 

a la Monthoicm — Montholon Style. 

Eggs dished up on anchovy toast; cream sauce 
with shredded mushrooms and chicken poured 
over. 

a la Mornay — Mornay. 

Eggs covered with cream sauce mixed with cheese, 
and then gratinated. 

d la Moutarde — with Mustard Sauce. 

Eggs served on toast and covered with mustard 
sauce. The best mustard sauce for eggs would be 
to mix either some English or French mustard with 
Hollandaise sauce. 

d la Moscovite — Moscow Style. 

Eggs on fried slices of bread; cream sauce poured 
over and besprinkled with chopped parsley, truffles 
and lobster coral; garnish with small pufif -paste 
crescents filled with caviare. 

d la Nationale — National. 

Cream sauce mixed with tomato puree and grated 
cheese, poured over the eggs and then gratinated. 

a la Nelson — Nelson Style. 

Eggs served on fish cakes ; Hollandaise mixed with 
puree of onions poured over. 

a la Neptune — Neptune. 

Eggs on fried slices of bread, garnished with lobster 
cut in small squares and stewed in cream. 



Eggs, and How to Use Them. 41 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poches 

a la Nesselrode — Nesselrade Style. 

Crusts filled with puree of chestnuts, egg on top, 
Colbert sauce poured over. 

d la Normande — Normandy Style._ 

Bread crusts filled with onion puree mixed with 
chopped ham ; eggs on top and tomato sauce poured 
over. 

d la d'Orleans — d'OrUams. 

Puree made with cooked pheasant and fat goose 
liver heated with some thick veloute sauce. Bor- 
ders of the above are dressed on the dish, and a 
poached egg is laid in each; a veloute cream sauce 
reduced with game stock poured over. 

d I'Oseille — with Sorrel. 

Eggs dished up over a puree of sorrel. 

d la Parisis — Parisis Style. 

Eggs served on pastry crusts; eggs covered with 
thick Hollandaise sauce and tomato sauce poured 
on the dish around. 

aux Pointes d'Asperges — with Asparagus Tips. 

Eggs garnished with asparagus tips, previously 
cooked in water and then tossed in butter. 

d la Portugaise — Portuguese Fashion. 

Halves oi tomatoes fried in oil, put on fried slices 
of bread ; eggs on top and tomato sauce poured over. 

d la Prince Egon — Prince Egon Fashion. 

Cream sauce with truffles and crayfish cut in small 
dice poured over the eggs. 

d la Provengde — Provencial Fashion. 

Eggs on fried slices of bread ; a thick tomato sauce 
(with a suspicion of garlic) poured over. 



42 Egg^j (^'^d Hozv to Use Them. 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poch.es 

a la puree d'ArtichoMts — imth puree of Artichokes. 

a la puree d'Asperges — ivith puree of Asparagus. 

a la puree de Champignons — ivith puree of Mushrooms. 

a la puree de Gibier — with puree of Game. 

a la puree de Lentilles-^-^itnth puree of Lentils. 

a la puree de Marrons — zinth puree of Cliestnuts. 

a la puree de Pais — with puree of Peas. 

a la puree d'Oignons — vuith puree of- Onions. 

a la puree d'Oseille — zvith puree of Sorrel. 

a la puree de Tomates — zmth puree of Tomatoes. 

a la puree de Volaille — with puree of Chicken. 

Besides the above named purees eggs can be served 
with quite a number of others. The purees used for 
garnishing can either be served in bread or puff- 
paste crusts and the eggs served on top of these ; or, 
the puree can be put on the dish and the eggs laid 
upon it; however, the former way , is more elegant 
and generally adopted in first-class houses. 

a la Renan — Renan. 

Garnish some china cases with minced chicken in 
cream; put a poached egg in each and pour over a 
veloute cream sauce finished with a puree of chicory 
or spinach. 

(2) Eggs served on pate de foie gras toast; cream 
sauce mixed with puree of spinach poured over. 

a la Rossini — Rossini. 

Eggs on slices of fat gooseliver ; truffle sauce poured 
over. 

a la Rothschild — Rothschild. 

Puff-paste crusts filled with a puree of truffles and 
pate de foie gras; eggs on top with Madeira sauce. 

d la Rou,gemont — Rougemont Style. 

Eggs on a bed of a Risotto a la Milanaise, covered 
partly with cream sauce and partly with tomato 
sauce so as to give it a marbled appearance. 



Eggs, and How to Use Them. 43 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poches 

a la Russe — Russian Fashion. 

Egs on caviare toast, garnished with strips of bone- 
less anchovies, and surrounded with Madeira sauce. 

a la SagoM — Sagan. 

Eggs on fried slices of bread ; a cream veloute sauce 
with curry, garnished with shredded chicken and 
cepes poured over. 
Boiled rice may be served separate. 

a la Sevigne — Sevigne. 

Puff -paste crusts filled with chicken hash and truffles 
in cream; eggs on top covered with cream sauce. 

a la Siciliewne — Sicilian Fashion. 

Eggs on bread crusts filled with puree of chicken 
livers ; tomato sauce poured over. 

a la Soubise — Souhise. 

Eggs on toast; cream sauce mixed with puree of 
onions poured over. 

a la Stuers—Stuers. 

Eggs on pate de foie gras toast; cream sauce with 
essence of truffles poured over; a glazed slice of 
truffle on each egg. 

aux Truffes — with TruMes. 

Eggs on toast, covered either with Madeira or cream 
sauce with sliced truffles. 

a la Turque — Turkish Style. 

Eggs on fried slices of tgg plant and tomato sauce. 

a la d'U xelles-^d'U xelles. 

Eggs on fried slices of .bread, covered with a sauce 
made of chopped shallots, mushrooms and fine herbs 
cooked in butter, reduced with white wine, finished 
with half brown, and half tomato sauce mixed. 



44 Eggs, and How to Use Them. 

Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poches 

a la Valois — Valois. 

Eggs on crusts filled with lobster and truffles cooked 
in cream. Tomato sauce poured over. 

a la Vefour — Vefour. 

Eggs on tartelet crusts filled with crayfish tails 
stewed in cream ; cream sauce finished with anchovy 
and lobster butter poured over the eggs. 

a la Veron — Veron. 

Artichoke bottoms filled with chopped beeftongue 
and truffles; eggs on top and covered with cream 
sauce and cheese ; then gratinated. 

a la Victoria — Victoria. 

Bread crusts filled with crab meat cooked in cream ; 
eggs on top covered with cream curry sauce finished 
with lobster butter. 

a la Volney — Volney Style. 

Small crusts filled with foie gras and truffles (cut 
in squares and mixed with Madeira sauce) ; eggs 
on top and Veloute cream sauce poured over. 

d la Waldorf — Waldorf Style. 

Egg on foie gras toast, fresh mushroom on top of 
the egg and Perigueux sauce poured over. 

d la Walter Scott — Walter Scott. 

Eggs on toast, garnished with lobster cut in squares 
and cooked in cream; tomato sauce finished with 
lobster butter poured over the eggs. 

d la Zaza — Zaza Style. 

Egg served on anchovy toast; pour over pepper 
and tomato sauce blended — previously adding 
equal parts of finely shredded gherkins, sweet red 
peppers, mushrooms, ham and breast of chicken. 

a la Zingara — Zingara Style. 

Served on fried crusts of bread and covered with 
thick tomato sauce mixed with finely shredded 
ham. 



Eggs, and How to Use Them. 4S 



Eggs Mollet. 



EGGS MOLLET should properly be classified among 
soft-boiled eggs, as is clearly indicated by the mean- 
ing of the word "mollet." 

In preparing eggs mollet, it is absolutely necessary that 
the eggs be very fresh. Plunge them into boiling water, 
cover the vessel they are in, and bring it to the corner of 
the range, not permitting the water to boil, and, after an 
immersion of ten minutes, take them out, and put them 
into cold water to cool ofif. Then take ofiE the shell very 
cautiously, as the eggs being quite soft are liable to break. 
When they are fresh from the shell, put them back into 
clean cold water, and when ready to use heat them in 
water or broth for a few minutes. 

Eggs mollet can also be prepared by cooking the eggs 
for five minutes in boiling water, and then proceeding as 
Stated above. 

Eggs mollet are usually served on toast, crusts, etc. 



46 EggSj and Hozv to Use Them. 

Eggs. MoUet (soft) — Oeufs MoUet 

a la Bechamel — Bechamel. 

Eggs on toast ; cream sauce poured over. 
a la Berlioz — Berlioz. 

Mushrooms and breast of partridge cut in small 

squares and stewed in cream; eggs served on top. 

poured over. 

a la Bordelaise — Bordeaux Style. 

Eggs on fried slices of bread ; Bordeaux sauce poured 
over. 

a la Bourguignone — Burgundy Style. 

Puff-paste crusts filled with scrambled eggs with 
asparagus tips and truffles; an egg mollet on each 
crust. 

a la Bruxelloise — Bnusel Fashion. 

Eggs on fried slices of bread, garnished with Brus- 
sel sprouts ; cream sauce poured over the eggs. 

d la Catalane — Catalane. 

Eggs on bread crusts filled with crab meat, stewed 
in cream, covered with tomato sauce. 

d, la Chantilly — Chamtilly. 

Eggs on small puff-paste crusts filled with puree of 
onions ; thick tomato sauce over the eggs. 

d la Chicoree — with Chicory. 

Chicory chopped fine, mixed with cream, and well 
seasoned; eggs on top. Serve good rich gravy 
around the chicory. 

a la Chasseur — Hunter's Fashion. 

Eggs on a puree of chestnuts mixed with puree of 
game; Madeira sauce reduced with game stock. 

a la Constance — Constance Style. 

Set the eggs on small crusts filled with asparagus 
tips tossed in butter. Pour over Bechamel sauce, 
besprinkled with grated Parmesan cheese, and grat- 
inate quickly. 



EggSj and Hozv to Use Them. 47 

Eggs MoUet (soft) — Oeufs MoUet 

en D emi-deuil — Demi-deuil. 

Eggs covered with cream sauce, besprinkled with 
chopped truffles. 

aux Eprevisses — with Crayfish. 

Eggs over crayfish tails stewed in cream. 

aiLv Epinards — zinth Spinach. 

Eggs on a bed of spinach chopped fine, mixed with 
cream and well seasoned, surrounded with rich 
gravy. 

a la Frangaise — French Style. 

Eggs on puff-paste crusts filled with a ragout of 
cock's combs and cock's kidneys in veloute cream 
sauce. 

a la Garlin — Garlin. 

Eggs on artichoke bottoms ; cream sauce with 
shredded chicken and truffles poured over. 

a la du Guesclin — du Guesclin. 

Eggs on bread crusts filled with curried lobster; 
cream sauce with paprika poured over the eggs ; 
chopped truffles, lobster coral and parsley sprinkled 
over. 

a la Heloise — Heloise. 

Eggs on fried slices of ham ; Hollandaise sauce with 
shredded beef tongue and truffles poured over the 
eggs, and around them serve a well-reduc'ed tomato 
sauce. 

a I'Indienne — Indian Fashion. 

Eggs on a bed of rice with cream curry sauce. 

a ritalienne — ItalidM Style. 

Broiled sHces of ham on risotto, and eggs on the 
ham; surrounded with tomato sauce. 



48 Eggs, and How to Use Them. 

Eggs MoUet (soft) — Oeufs Mollet 

d la Mexicam. — Mexican Style. 

Eggs served in crusts filled with shrimps (stewed 
with onions, tomatoes and red sweet peppers), with 
Cream sauce poured over the eggs. 

a la Montebello — Montebello. 

Eggs on pate de foie gras toast; thick Bearnaise 
sauce mixed with puree of tomatoes poured over. 

a la Montglas — Montglas. 

Eggs on crusts filled with a brown ragoiit of mush- 
rooms, truffles, beeftongue, and chicken cut in 
squares. 

a la Nantua — Nantua. 

Eggs on crusts, filled with crayfish tails stewed in 
cream. 

a I'Oseille — with Sorrel. 

Eggs served on a bed of sorrel. 

d I'Ostendoise — Ostend Fashion,. 

Eggs on crusts, filled with oysters in cream sauce. 

a la Parisienne — Parisian Fashion. 

Eggs on artichoke bottoms ; cream sauce with truffles 
poured over. 

d la Persanne^-Persian Fashion. 

Eggs on a bed of plain boiled rice, surrounded with 
a brown curry sauce with onions, ham, and stewed 
prunes cut in small squares. 

d la puree d'Artichauts — with puree of Artichokes. 
d la puree d'Asperges — with puree of Asparagus, 
a la puree de Celeri — zvith puree of Celery, 
a la pwree de Marrons — with puree of Chestnuts. 



EggSj and Hozv to Use Them. 49 

Eggs MoUet (soft) — Oeufs MoUet 

d la puree de Topinatnbours — mith puree af Girasoles 
or Jerusalem Artichokes. 
Eggs can be served right on the puree ; or the puree 
can be served in crust and eggs on top. 

a la Raphael — Raphael. 

Eggs covered with anchovy sauce with crayfish tails 
or lobster cut in squares. 

a la Ravigote — Ravigote. 

Eggs covered with veloute sauce, finished with, 
green butter — (tarragon, chervil, parsley, etc., par- 
boiled and pounded with butter). 

d la Reine — Queen Style. 

Eggs on crusts filled with puree of chicken; cream 
sauce. 

d la Royale — Royal Fashion. 

Eggs on crusts filled with truffles and beeftongue 
cut in small squares and stewed in cream. 

a la Sidney — Sidney. 

Eggs with cream curry sauce with shredded chicken 
■ and ham. Rice may be served separate. 

d la Vatel — Vatel. 

Eggs on fried slices of bread, covered with cream 
sauce mixed with shredded mushrooms and beef- 
tongue. 

a la Verdi — Verdi. 

Eggs with cream sauce mixed with puree of onions. 
In the centre of eggs serve fresh mushrooms sauted 
in butter. 

d la Zurlo — Zurlo. 

Eggs on flat and oval-shaped potato croquettes; 
cream sauce with chopped ham, truffles and parsley 
around them. 



50 Eggs, and How to Use Them. 



Scrambled Eggs. 



OF all the many ways in which eggs can be prepared 
for the table, there is none which, as* a rule, is 
liable to be so unsatisfactory as when they are scrambled; 
In order that a dish of scrambled eggs should appear 
at its best, it ought to be served immediately after leav- 
ing the hands of the cook, as eggs in that form are liable 
to rapid deterioration in tastefulness and quality. 

Some cooks use cream, or cream sauce, to keep 
scrambled eggs in good condition for a reasonable period 
of time. I do not recommend the use of sauce unless it 
be absolutely necessary, as I consider cream more satis- 
factory. It should be remembered that the most im- 
portant point in cooking eggs is never to overcook them. 
Scrambled eggs, that are dried up when served, are not 
only lacking in tastefulness, but they are also difficult 
of digestion. Here is a recipe that will give satisfaction 
if the directions are strictly followed out: 

Butter a flat saute pan liberally, put into it six well 
beaten eggs, season with salt and pepper, and put on the 
fire. Keep stirring continually with an egg whisk, or 
wooden spoon, until the eggs become creamlike itj con- 
sistency; when they are sufficiently done add about two 
ounces of good butter, and serve immediately. If 
scrambled eggs cannot be served as soon as cooked, a 
little cream, about one tablespoonful to two eggs, may 
be added; cooked this way they are more custardlike in 
appearance. 



Eggs, and Hozv to Use Them. 51 

Oeufs Brouilles — Scrambled Eggs 

aux Anchois — with Anchovies. 

Boneless anchovies cut in small pieces mixed with 
plain scrambled eggs. 

aux Artichauts — mth Artichokes. 

Artichokes cut into dices mixed with scrambled 
eggs. 

a la d'Aumale—d'Aumale. 

Scrambled eggs with kidneys, garnished with small 
puff-paste crusts filled with thick puree of tomatoes. 

a la Balzac — Balzac. 

Scrambled eggs with shredded beeftongue and 
truffles, garnished with crusts filled with soubise. 

a la Bordelaise — Bordeaux Style. 

Scrambled eggs with fried cubes of bread aftd cepes ; 
chopped fine herbs added when cooked. 

a la Bretonne — Brittany Style. 

Scrambled eggs served on toast, with minced onions 
in thick brown sauce in the centre. 

a la Cervelle de Veau — with Calf's Brains. 

Calf's brains cut in cubes mixed with the eggs. 

aux Champignons — with Mushrooms. 

These can be served either with or without sauce. 
In the first case, if fresh mushrooms are used they 
are cooked in butter and mixed with sufficient brown 
sauce, which must be of good consistency; the 
scrambled eggs are dished up and the stewed mush- 
rooms put in the centre. If no sauce is required 
the mushrooms are cut in cubes, cooked in butter 
and mixed with the eggs. 

o la Conitesse Uruska — Countess Uruska Style. 

Scrambled eggs with asparagus tips, and crayfish 
or lobster cut in cubes, served on toast; surrounded 
with tomato sauce. 



52 E^^s, and How to Use Them. 



^i>i> 



Oetifg Brouilles — Scrambled Eggs 

aux Crevettes — with Shrimps. 

Shrimps cut in squares mixed with the eggs. 

en Croustade — in Crusts. 

These crusts can be made either of bread or puff- 
paste. (See with poached eggs.) 

a la Dieppoi^e — Dieppe Style. 

Scrambled eggs with oysters arid mushrooms, served 
in small puff-paste patties. 

d la Dumas — Dumas Style. 

Eggs scrambled with fine herbs, served on toast and 
garnished with small grilled mushrooms and slices 
of bacon. 

a I'Ecarlate — Ecarlate Style. 

Serve the eggs on buttered toast, make a hollow in 
the center and fill with beef tongue, cut in small 
squares and added to thickly reduced Madeira sauce. 

a I'Espagnole — Spanish Style. 

Onions, green peppers, ham and tomatoes cooked 
in oil or butter, mixed with the eggs, or if preferred, 
can be dished up in the centre of the eggs. 

d I'Estragon — with Tarragon. 

Tarragon leaves are parboiled, chopped, and then 
mixed with the eggs. 

aux Fines Herbes — with Fine Herbs. 

The professional cook knows of two kinds of fine 
herbs, the raw and the cooked ; the raw consists of 
chopped parsley, chervil and chives, sometimes tar- 
ragon ; the cooked fine herbs are prepared with mush- 
rooms, shallots and parsley, all chopped fine and 
cooked in butter. 

For scrambled eggs, or omelette with fine herbs, the 
raw herbs are generally used unless otherwise speci- 
fied. 



Eggs, and How to Use Them. S3 

Oeufs Brouilles — Scrambled Eggs 

d la Forestiere — Forester's Fashion. 

Scrambled eggs mixed with previously cooked mush- 
rooms and bacon (both cut in small cubes). 

a la Frangaise — French style. 

Artichoke bottoms, previously heated in broth, are 
filled with scrambled eggs mixed with chopped 
truffles, sprinkled over with grated cheese and melted 
butter; put in the oven for a minute; served with 
brown sauce. 

au Fromage — with Cheese. 

Plain scrambled eggs, to which, when they are 
cooked, some grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese is 
added. 

a la Geo. de Forest Grant — Geo. de Forest Grant. 

Plunge some good sized green peppers into very 
hot fat, so that the outer skin may be detached by 
rubbing with a napkin, cut off the stalk end and 
empty out the seeds, boil for about ten minutes in 
salted water, and then fill them with scrambled eggs ; 
serve them upside down wifh a glazed slice of truffles 
on each, and Madeira sauce on the dish. 

a la Georgette — Georgette Style. 

Scrambled eggs with shrimps, served in scooped out 
halves of baked potatoes. 

a la Gordon — Gordon Style. 

Crusts filled with scrambled eggs with truffles. With 
slices of parboiled marrow dipped in meat glaze 
placed on top. 

au Hareng Saur — with Smoked Herring. 

Skinned and boned smoked herring cut into small 
pieces, tossed in butter for a few minutes, and mixed 
with the eggs. 



54 £SS^' ^"^ Hoiv to Use Them. 

Oeufs Brouilles — Scrambled £ggs 

(mx Huitres — zi'ith Ovsters. 

The bearded oysters are cooked with a Httle of their 
own gravy; when cooked, cream sauce is added in 
proportion and dished up in the centre of the eggs. 
Or, the soft part of the oysters are cut into squares 
and cooked, the liquid strained and the oysters mixed 
with the eggs. 

au Jambon — with Ham. 

Ham cut in small cubes, fried in butter and mixed 
with eggs. 

au Jus — zvith Gravy. 

Eggs served on toast, surrounded with good veal 
gravy. 

a la Livingstone — Livingstone. 

Eggs on toast spread with puree of gooseliver, or 
pate de foie gras. 

a la Lyonaise — Lyonese Style. 

Onions minced finely, smothered in butter and 
mixed with the eggs. 

d la Marseillaise — Marseille Style. 

Tomatoes cooked in olive oil, mixed with scrambled 
eggs, which, previously to being cooked, were beaten 
in a bowl rubbed with garlic. 

a la Montglais — Montglas Style. 

Truffles, muslirooms, cooked breast of chicken and 
smoked beeftongue, cut in small squares, stewed for 
a few minutes in well reduced Madeira sauce, dished 
up in the centre of the eggs. 

a la Mornay — Mornay Style. 

Mushrooms and shrimps cut in dice, mixed with 
eggs. 



Eggs, and Hozv to Use Them. 55 

Oeufs Brouilles — Scrambled Eggs 

a la Nerac — Nerac Style. 

Eggs served on Pate de foie gras toast, with glazed 
slices of truffles on top and surrounded with truffle 
sauce. 

a la Offenbach — Offenbach Style. 

Tunny, crayfish tails and anchovies cut in small 
squares mixed with the eggs, garnished with small 
puff-paste crusts filled with thick tomato puree. 

au.v Oignons-^uith Onions. 

Eggs mixed with chopped onions previously smoth- 
ered in butter. 

a. la Orientate — Oriental Style. 

Eggs cooked with anchovy butter dished up over 
tomatoes cut in halves and baked in the oven. 

an Pain — with Bread. 

Small squares of fried white bread, mixed with the 
eggs. (In German-Switzerland this dish is called 
Vogelheu.) 

au Parmesan — with Parmesan Cheese. 

Scrambled eggs mixed with grated Parmesan cheese. 

au.v Petits Pois — with Green Peas. 
Green peas mixed with the eggs. 

au Petit Sale Fume — with Bacon. 

Thin rashers of bacon cut in small strips, fried and 
mixed with the eggs; or, the bacon may be broiled 
and served as garnishing around the eggs. 

aux Piments Verts — with Green Peppers. 

phopped green peppers cooked in butter and mixed 
with the eggs. 

aux Pointes d'Asperges — with Asparagus Tips. 

Cooked asparagus tips cut small and mixed with 
the eggs. 



56 Eggs, and How to Use Them. 

Oeufs Brouilles — Scrambled Eggs 

a la Princesse — Princess Style. 

Scrambled eggs with truffles, served in crusts made 
of puff-paste; a little veal gravy served over the 
eggs. 

a la Provencale — Provencial Style. 

Onions and tomatoes smothered in oil, mixed with 
the eggs, and garnished with small stuffed mush- 
rooms. 

a la Puree de Celeri — with Puree, of Celery. 
Eggs mixed with puree of celery. 

a la Reine — Queen Style. 

Cooked breast of chicken and truffles cut in very 
small cubes, mixed with the eggs. Hard eggs are 
hollowed, heated in salted water and filled with 
the scrambled eggs ; served on cream sauce. 

a la Ribot — Ribot Style. 

Firm fresh tomatoes are scooped out with the vege- 
table spoon, seasoned and cooked in the oven, then 
filled up with scrambled eggs, covered with a nice 
slice of truffle glazed over, and set on light cream 
sauce. 

d la Cafe Riche — Cafe Riche Style. 

Eggs with lobster and truffles cut in cubes, served 
on toast; tomato sauce finished with lobster butter 
on the dish. 

au Ris de Veau — with Sweetbread. 

Sweetbread, previously parboiled, is cut in dices and 
cooked in butter; it may be mixed thus with the 
eggs, or either brown or white sauce may be added ; 
if this is done the sweetbread must be dished up in 
the centre of the eggs. 



Eggs, and How to Use Them. 57 

Oeiifs Brouilles — Scrambled Eggs 

aux Rognons — with Kidneys. 

Veal or lamb kidneys, cut in cubes, cooked in very 
hot butter over a brisk , fire. When sufficiently 
cooked they are put into a well reduced Madeira 
sauce and dished up in the centre of the eggs. The 
kidneys should not be allowed to boil in the sauce, 
nor should they be overdone lest they become tough 
and indigestible. 

aux Rognons et Champignons — with Kidneys, and 
Mushrooms. 

Same as above with the addition of mushrooms. 

d la St. Denis — St. Denis Style. 

Eggs served on artichoke bottoms and surrounded 
with small round croquettes of sweetbread. 

au Saumon Fume — ■with Smoked Salmon. 

Smoked salmon cut into thin strips, cooked in but- 
ter for a few minutes and mixed with the eggs. 

a la Suisse — Swiss Style. 

Gruyere cheese cut in small cubes, mixed with the 
eggs when they are done. 

aux Tomates — with Tomatoes. 

Fresh tomatoes are peeled and the seeds pressed 
out, then cut in small pieces and cooked with but- 
ter and mixed with the eggs. 

a la Tosca — Tosca Style. 

Equal pai-ts of cooked breast of chicken, parboiled 
oysters and braised celery (cut in small cubes and 
mixed with cream sauce) placed in the center ot the 
scrambled eggs. 



58 Eggs, and How to Use Them. 

Oeufs Brouilles — Scrambled Eggs 

aux T ruffes — with Truffles. 

These can be served like scrambled eggs with mush- 
rooms, either with or without sauce; truffles are cut 
into cubes, and if served with sauce, put into Ma- 
deira sauce and dished up in the centre of the eggs ; 
the other way the truffles are mixed with the eggs, 
and nice slices of glazed truffles are laid on top of 
them. 

a la Turque — Ttwkish Style. 

Eggs served on fried slices of tomatoes and gar- 
nished with fried eggplant, cut out in crescents. 

a I' Union Club — Union Club Style. 

Pimentos morrones, or red sweet peppers, are heated 
in salt water and filled up with scrambled eggs and 
truffles ; Madeira sauce on the dish. 

a la Valencienne — Valencia Style. 

Scrambled eggs with red sweet peppers, served in 
artichoke bottoms. Tomato sauce on the dish. 

a la Volontaire— Volunteer Style. 

Truffles, olives, mushrooms and red peppers (cut 
in small squares and mixed with thickly reduced 
Madeira sauce), served in the center of the scram^ 
bled eggs. 



E-ggs, and HoTV to Use Them. 59 



Shirred Eggs(Oeufs sur le Plat) 
— Eggs au Miroir. 



MANY persons have asked the writer what the dif- 
ference is between shirred eggs and eggs au 
miroir. According to the modern school of cookery, the 
difference is as follows : shirred eggs are cooked in a 
small china dish, especially made for the purpose, and 
are served therein ; while eggs au miroir are also cooked 
in the same kind of dish, but when done they are cut with 
a round paste cutter, and served either on toast, crusts', 
or the garnishing directly. These are the teachings of 
the overrefined modern school. In the good old days no 
difference was made between a shirred egg and an egg 
au miroir. 

In cooking shirred eggs, butter the dish lightly, break 
into it either three or four eggs, pour hot melted butter 
over the yolks, and cook in a slow oven for a few min- 
utes, until the yolk looks as though it was coveted with 
a veil. 

•The seasoning of eggs, if no sauce accompanies them, 
should be left to the eater, as salt and pepper destroy 
the beauty of a well cooked egg. 

The following description of garnishings can be 
adapted to either shirred eggs on the dish directly, or 
eggs cut out and served on toasts. 



60 Eggs, and Hozv to Use Them. 

Shirred Eggs (Oeufs sur le Plat) — Oeufs au Miroir 

a la A dele — A dele Fashion. 

Eggs (when cooked) garnished with mushrooms 
(cut in squares and atewed in Madeira sauce) and 
broiled sausages cut in halves lengthwise. 

o I'aigre doux — with Sweet-Sour Sauce. 
(See poached eggs.) 

a I'Alsacienne — Alsatian Style. 

Slices of boiled salt pork on the dish, grated Gruyere 
cheese sprinkled over; eggs broken on top covered 
with a little thick cream and cooked for a few min- 
utes in a slow oven. 

aM.ii; Anchois — with Anchovies. 

Chopped anchovies on the dish, eggs over them. 

a I'Angladse — English Fashion. 

Broiled strips of bacon on the dish, eggs over them, 
or the eggs may be cooked plain and the bacon 
served on top. 

a la Bayonnaise — Bayonne Style. 

Slices of ham on the dish, eggs on top ; when cooked 
cover with tomato sauce. 

a la Bercy — Bercy. 

Eggs cooked plain, garnished with small sausages 
and tomato sauce. 

au Beurre noir — with brown (black) Butter. 

Eggs cooked plain, brown butter poured over. 
Brown Butter : put two ounces of butter in a frying- 
pan, turn the latter gently until the butter becomes 
brown, then add a tablespoonful of vinegar. 

aux Champignons — with Mushrooms. 

Eggs cooked plain, garnished with mushrooms cut 
in squares and stewed in Madeira sauce. 



Eggs, and Hoiv to Use Them. 61 

Shirred Eggs (Oeufs sur le Plat) — Oeufs au Miroir 

d la Chasseur — Hunter's Style. • "^ 

Eggs garnished with chicken livers sauted with 
mushrooms and shallots in Madeira sauce mixed 
with a dash of Tomato sauce. 

a la Chipolata — Chipolata. 

Eggs cooked plain, garnished with chestnuts cooked 
in broth, glazed small onions, small sausages, and 
Madeira sauce. 

a la Cluny — Cluny Style. 

Same as Bercy Style, but instead of sausages use 
small chicken croquettes. 

a la Colbert — Colbert. 

Eggs cooked plain, covered with Colbert sauce. 

a la Creme — vuith Cream. 

Good thick cream on the dish, eggs broken into the 
same, and cooked in a slow oven. 

a la Creole — Creole Style. 

Ham cut in small squares, onions, green peppers 
and mushrooms sliced and all smothered in butter, 
fresh tomatoes peeled, squeezed and cut in quarters, 
and a little beef extract are added, and the whole 
cooked for IS minutes ; put this on the dish, break 
the eggs over it, and cook in a slow oven. 

a la de Lesseps — De Lesseps Style. 

.Eggs garnished with calf's brains. Brown butter 
poured over. 

a la Derby — Derby. 

Eggs cooked plain, garnished with fat gooseliver, 
and mushrooms cut in squares, with brown sauce. 

a la Diabie — Deviled. 

Eggs cooked plain, deviled sauce poured over. 



62 EggSj and How to Use Them. 

Shirred Eggs (Oeufs sur le Plat) — Oeufs au Miroir 

a la DucJiesse — Duchess Style. 

Proceed as for Nesselrode Style, but use mashed 
potatoes instead of puree of chestnuts. 

a I' Etudiante — Student's Fashion. 

Eggs cooked plain, garnished with stewed kidneys 
and truffles in thick tomato sauce. 

a la Fermiere — Farmer's Fashion. 

Eggs cooked plain, garnished with chicken livers 
stewed with onions and mushrooms. 

a la Florentine — Florence Style. 

Cover shirred egg dishes with a thin layer of plain 
spinach and sprinkle with grated cheese. Set the 
eggs on top of ithe spinach, cover them with a thin 
Cream sauce (mixed with grated cheese) and bake 
in a brisk oven. 

a la Folette — Folette Style. 

Spread puree of sorrel on the dish, make a hollow 
and lay the yolks in. Whip the whites to a stiff 
froth, place over the sorrel, sprinrkle with grated 
cheese and melted butter and bake in a medium 
oven. 

d la Gouife — Gouffe. 

Same as a la Creme, with the addition of grated 
Parmesan cheese. 

a la Grecqu^ — Greek Style. 

Eggs garnished with &gg plant, cut in squares and 
sauted in butter. Tomato sauce poured around. 

ail Jambon ou au Lard — with Ham or Bacon. 

Fried or broiled slices of ham or bacon on the but- 
tered dish, eggs broken on top, and cooked- in a slow 
oven. 



^■ggs, and How to Use Them. 63 

Shirred Eggs (Oeufs sur le Plat) — Oeufs au Miroir 

a la Jockey Club — Jockey Club Style. 

Eggs cooked plain, garnished with veal kidneys, 
mushrooms, and truffles cut in squares and stewed 
, in Madeira sauce. 

a la Jules Janin — Jules Jcmin. 

Eggs on slices of fat goose liver with tomato sauce, 

au Jus-^with Grbvy. 

Eggs cooked plain, with rich gravy poured over 
when done. 

a la Knapp — Knapp Style. 

Eggs with brown butter, garnished with sausages 
(split and broiled). 

a la Lorraine — Lorraine Fashion. 

Same as a la Crane, with the addition of -chives and 
grated cheese. 

a la Marchamd de Vin — Wine Merchants' Style. 

Eggs garnished with small sausages (split and 
broiled). Marrow sauce poured over. 

a la Marigny — Marigny Style. 

Put stewed tomatoes on the egg dish; break the 
eggs on top and cook. Pour Lobster sauce on the 
white part of the eggs. 

a la Meyerbeer^Meyerbeer. 

Eggs cooked plain, with broiled lamb's kidneys and 
truffle sauce. 

d la Montagnarde — Mountaineer's Fashion. 

Eggs garnished with stewed veal, kidneys, mush- 
rooms, and small sausages in Madeira sauce. 



64 Eggs, and How to Use Them. 

Shirred Eggs (Oeufs sur le Plat) — Oeufs au Miroir 

d la Montwrgis — Montargis. 

Eggs around a ragout of shredded chicken livers 
(previously cooked), mushrooms, and beef tongue, 
mixed with thick cream sauce, besprinkled with 
cheese and gratinated; when done a little tomato 
sauce is poured around the eggs. 

a la Mousquetadre — Musketeer Fashion. 

Eggs garnished with finely sliced lamb's kidneys 
and onions in cream. ' 

a la Negus — Negus. 

Eggs garnished with small chicken or game cro- 
quettes and truffle sauce. 

a la Nesselrode — Nesselrode Style. 

Butter the dish and with a channelled tube affixed 
to a pastry bag make on it a border of puree of 
chestnuts. Pour two tablespoonfuls of thick cream 
on the dish, break the eggs into the cream and 
bake in the oven. 

aux Oignons — with Onions. 

Sliced onions smothered in butter are put on the 
dish, or the eggs are cooked plain and onion sauce 
is served with them. 

a la Omer Pacha — Omer Pacha. 

Sliced onions and quartered tomatoes cooked to- 
gether in butter are put on the egg dish, the eggs 
broken on top, and cooked in a slow oven. 

a r Opera — Opera Style. 

Garnish the eggs with clusters of stewed chicken 
livers and asparagus tips tossed in butter. 

au Parmesan — with Parmesan Cheese. 

The grated cheese is strewn on the buttered egg dish 
and also some over the eggs, and then cooked in a 
slow oven. 



Eggs, and Hozu to Use Them. 65 

Shirred Eggs (Oeufs sur le Plat) — Oeufs au Miroif 

a la Provengale^Provencial Fashion. 

Eggs garnished with halves of tomatoes cooked in 
oil. 

a la Reine — Queen Style. 

Eggs garnished with breast of chicken, mushrooms 
and truffles cut in small squares and stewed in cream. 

d la Rossini — Rossini. 

Eggs garnished with slices of fat goose liver and 
truffle sauce. 

d la St. Germain — St. Germain Style. 

Proceed as for the Nesselrode Style, but instead 
of puree of chestnuts use puree of peas. 

a la Geo. Sand — Geo. Sand Style. 

Eggs garnished with broiled mushrooms and as- 
paragus tips tossed in butter. 

aux Sardines — ztdth Sardines. 

Sardines are skinned, split and boned and put on 
the dish, the eggs broken on top, and cooked in a 
slow oven. 

aux Saucisses — with Sausages. 

Eggs cooked plain, garnished with small sausages. 

a la Suisse — Swiss Fashion. 

Strew grated Gruyere (Swiss) cheese over the 
eggs, pour nut butter over and cook in the oven. 

aux Tomates — with Tomatoes. 

Eggs garnished with tomatoes stewed in butter. 

d la Turbigo — Turbigo. 

Eggs garnished with small broiled sausages and 
Bordelaise sauce. 



66 Eggs, and Hozv to Use Them. 

Shirred Eggs (Oeufs sur le Plat) — Oeufs au Miroir 

d la Venitienne. 

Anchovies and sweet peppers are cut in small 
squares, mixed with tomatoes stewed in butter and 
put on the dish; eggs broken on top and cooked in 
a slow oven. 

d la Vicomtesse — Viscountess Style. 

Eggs garnished with asparagus tips tossed in but- 
ter. Pour over Hollandaise sauce and strew 
chopped or finely shredded truffles. 

d la Victoria — Victoria Style. 

Lobster and truffles cut in small squares added to 
lobster sauce and poured over the white part of 
the eggs. 



Eggs, and How to Use Them. 67 



Fried Eggs. 



THERE are two distinctly different methods of fry- 
ing egfgs, one of which may be termed the French, 
and the other the EngHsh or American method. 

The French cook includes under the head of frying, 
anything that is immersed and cooked in very hot fat, 
either oil, lard or butter ; while the English and American 
cooks apply the term to anything that is cooked with 
.the aid of a fatty substance. A French cook, to whom 
the English or American customs are unknown, will, 
therefore, when asked to serve a fried egg, plunge the 
egg into a large quantit)' of fat, similar to the way eggs 
are poached in water. The English or American cook 
would simply melt a little butter in a frying-pan, break 
the eggs into it, and cook them only on one side ; or, as 
many do, when cooking ham, or bacon and eggs, cook the 
meat first and then fry the eggs in the remaining fat. 

In addition to those two ■vy^ys, poached eggs or eggs 
mollet can also be fried ; they simply need to be breaded 
with beaten eggs and bread crumbs, and then be im- 
mersed in some hot fatty substance. 

It lies with the cook, or the consumer, to have the 
eggs fried just as his taste, directs. The garnishings de- 
scribed later on can, with few exceptions, be adapted to 
any way in which eggs are fried. 



68 E.ggs, and How to Use Them. 

RECIPES FOR FRYING EGGS. 

First or French method : Put a half pint of olive oil, 
lard or clarified butter into a frying-pan and, place over 
a good fire; when hot, break gently one by one (without 
bursting the yolk) into the pan) with a wooden spoon 
turn the white gently over the yolk, so as to envelop the 
latter. When sufficiently cooked, take the egg out with 
a skimmer, and put it on a napkin so that the latter may 
absorb all the fat, then turn the egg, and place over the 
garnishing. It is always best to fry only one egg at a 
time. 

Second method : Melt one ounce of butter in a frying- 
pan, and when it begins to hiss break into it, gently, three 
or four eggs, scald the yolk with a little hot melted but- 
ter, and cook in a slow oven for two or three minutes. 

The second method is the one most commonly followed 
by our domestic cooks. Many persons, who have an 
aversion to fried food, can eat eggs fried in this way, 
when it would be impossible for them to do sO if the 
eggs were fried according to the first, or French method. 



Eggs, and Horn to Use Them. 69 

Fried Eggs — Oeufs Frits 

d I' AUenumde^— German Style. 

Eggs on a bed of spinach with shredded smoked 
cooked beef tongue in Madeira sauce around on 
the dish. 

a I'Anglaise — English Fashion. 

Eggs on fried or broiled ham or bacon. 

d la Bayonnaise — Bayonne Fashion. 

Eggs on broiled Bayonne ham, tomato sauce over 
the ham. 

a la Berenger — Berenger. 

Artichoke bottoms covered with stewed tomatoes, 
an egg fried in oil on each artichoke and between 
each tgg a small slice of broiled ham. 

& la Bordelaise — Bordeaux Fashion. 

Eggs on Bordeaux sauce garnished with marrow 
and mushrooms. 

a la Conde — Conde. 

Eggs on ■ a puree prepared of % haricots, beans, 
and Yi spinach; broiled ham as garnishing. 

a la Creole — Creole Style. 

Eggs on sauce as prepared for "Shirred Eggs & la 
■:reole." 

& I'Espagnole — Spanish Style. 

Slices of bread are dipped in beaten tgg and fried 
in oil, the ham also fried in oil is put oh the bread, 
the eggs on the ham; tomato sauce is poured over 
the whole. 

aux Epinards — with Spinach. 

Eggs served on a bed of chopped spinach. 



70 Egi^j ond How to Use Them. 

Fried Eggs — Oeufs Frits 

a I'huile — in Oil. 

Eggs fried in oil. 

au Jamhon — with Ham. 
Eggs served on ham. 

d la Jules Janin— Jules Janin. 

Eggs on pate de foie gras toast; tomato sauce 
poured over. 

a la Proz'engale — Proveneial Fashion. 

Eggs fried in oil, served on halves of tomatoes baked 
in the oven ; tomato sauce (with a suspicion of garlic) 
on the dish. 

d, la Reforme — Reform. 

Eggs fried in oil served on a garnishing of shredded 
truffles, mushrooms, beef tongue, gherkins and the 
white of a hard boiled tgg, stewed in brown sauce 
mixed with a little red currant jelly. 

Fried Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poches, Frits 

d, la Cicile — Cecil. 

Poached eggs dipped into beaten eggs and fresh 
bread crumbs, then plunged into very hot fat for one 
minute and a half; tomato sauce finished with 
lobster butter served separate. 

d la Colbert — Colbert. 

Eggs cooked as above, served with Colbert sauce. 

d, la Montebello—Montebello. 

Eggs prepared as "a la Cecile;" Bearnaise sauce 
mixed with puree of tomatoes served separate. 



Eggs,- and Hozv to Use Them. 71 

Fried Poached Eggs — Oeufs Poches, Frits 

a la Villeroi — Villeroi. 

Poached eggs coated with Villeroi sauce. When 
very cold they are rolled into fresh bread crumbs 
and then dipped in beaten eggs, rolled once more 
in bread crumbs and then fried in very hot fat; 
served with tomato or Bearnaise sauce. 
Villeroi Smice: Reduce some veloute sauce with 
rich veal stock and some cream, until of good con- 
sistency, thicken with a few &gg yolks and pass 
through a sauce towel; when cold use for the eggs. 
Villeroi sauce must be gelatinous or else it will not 
become firm when cold ; we therefore recommend the 
use of veal stock. 



72 Eggs, and How to Use Them. 



Bggs in Cocottes or Cases. 



THE preparation of eggs in cocottes, or in cases, is 
entirely the same, the difference being merely in 
the cocottes or cases themselves. Cocottes have, gen- 
erally, the shape of a small saucepan, deep enough to 
contain one egg and the garnishing. They are made of 
porcelain, and have a handle attached; though there 
are some. of different shapes and designs. Cases are made 
either of paper or porcelain ; if the former are used they 
should be slightly oiled on the outside, and dried for a 
few minutes in a slow oven. This is done to make them 
resist the humidity. To handle cases easier when serv- 
ing them to guests, they should be put in silver stands 
similar to those in which the glasses containing soda 
water are served. 

Eggs cooked in china cases, or cocottes, should be put 
in a pan surrounded with water ; they require to be in the 
oven from six to ten minutes, according to the heat and 
the preparation. 

In many recipes the cocottes, or cases, are lined with 
a coating of forcemeat; and these certainly require 
longer time to cook than those where only a garnishing 
is laid on the bottom. 



^Si^) '^^'^ Hozv to Use Them. 73 

Eggs in Cocottes — Oeufs en Cocottes 

a la Bedford — Bedford. 

The ccx:ottes are lined with liver forcemeat, leaving 
a hollow space in the centre in which the raw egg 
is broken ; they are cooked in the oven, for eight to 
ten minutes, and before serving, besprinkled with 
chopped beeftongue and truffles. 

a la Cherbourg — Cherbourg Style. 

The cocottes are lined with fine fish forcemeat and 
mixed with chopped truffles and lobster, the eggs 
are put in the centre and cooked in the oven; when 
done a little tomato sauce is poured on the top. 

a la Creme au Gratin — Baked in Cream. 

A spoonful of thick cream is put on the bottom 
of the cocotte, the egg broken into it, seasoned with 
salt and pepper, and covered with more cream, and 
then cooked in the oven from six to eight minutes. 

& la Creole — Creole Style. 

See Shirred Eggs a la Creole. 

a la Du Barry — Du Barry Style. 

Line the cases with chicken forcemeat mixed with 
chopped beef tongue and truffles ; ■ break in the 
eggs and cook in the oven. When done, cover 
with puree of cauliflower. 

aiiji^ Fines Herbes Cuites — with Cooked Fine Herbs. 
Chopped shallots and mushrooms are cooked in 
butter, when done a little chopped parsley and 
chervil is added, this is put on the bottom of the 
cocottes, the eggs broken on top and cooked in the 
oven; when done a little rich gravy may be poured 
over the eggs. 

d, la Gouffe — Gouife. 

Same as "Cocottes a la Creme au Gratin;" instead 
of sweet cream sour cream is used, and the eggs 
besprinkled with gfated cheese. 



74 EggSj and How to Use Them. 

Eggs in Cocottes — Oeufs en Cocottes 

a I'ltalienne — Italian Style. 

Chopped shallots, onions and mushrooms are cooked 
in butter and reduced with white wine, half brown 
and half tomato sauce is added and cooked for a 
while ; this sauce is put on the bottom of the cocottes, 
the eggs on top and cooked in the oven for six or 
seven minutes. 

a la Leontine — Leontine. 

Cocottes are lined with fish forcemeat mixed with 
crayfish tails and truffles cut in small squares, eggs 
broken into the centre, cooked in the oven, and 
when done covered with tomato sauce. 

a la Mo/rly — Marly. 

Two spoonfuls each of chopped crayfish tails or 
lobster, chopped mushrooms and bread crumbs are 
mixed with one ounce of butter and two yolks of 
eggs so as to form a smooth paste, season well, and 
with this line some cocottes and break an egg into 
the centre of each ; cook in the oven and cover with 
a little cream sauce before serving. 

a la Reine-^Queen's Fashion. 

Breast of cooked chicken, mushrooms and truffles 
are cut into small squares, mixed with cream sauce 
and put on the bottom of the cocottes, the eggs on 
top; cooked in the oven for six to seven minutes. 

a la Victoria — Victoria. 

Lobster, mushrooms and truffles cut into small 
squares are mixed with cream sauce finished with 
lobster butter; this is put on the bottom of the 
cocottes, eggs on top and cooked in the oven ; when 
done covered with tomato sauce. 



Eggs, and Hoiv to Use Them. 75 

Eggs in Cocottes^ — Oeufs en Cocottes 

d la Voltaire — Voltaire Style. 

Line the cases with chicken force meat, break in 
the eggs and cook in the oven. When done, cover 
with puree of asparagus. 

Eggs in CaseSi — Oeufs en Caisses 

d la Bonnefemme — Bonnefemme. ' 

Prepare a paste of two spoonfuls each of fresh bread 
crumbs and cooked fine herbs, two yolks of eggs and 
one ounce of butter ; line the cases with this mixture, 
leaving a hollow space in the centre, break one egg 
into each and cook in the oven from eight to ten 
minutes ; when done garnish with finely-cut anchovy 
fillets. 

a la Cairola — Carola. 

Cases are lined with cream chicken forcemeat mixed 
with shredded mushrooms and beeftongue, the eggs 
broken into the centre and cooked in the oven ; when 
done they are besprinkled with chopped truffles. 

a la Colbert — Colbert. 

The cases are lined with chicken forcemeat mixed 
with chopped truffles, the eggs put in the centre and 
cooked in the oven ; when done covered with Colbert 
sauce. 

aux Crevettes — with Shrimps. 

Shrimps cut in squares and stewed in cream are put 
on the bottom of the cases and the eggs on top; 
cooked from six to eight minutes. 

a la Czarine — Csarina Style. 

Cases lined with game forcemeat and chopped 
truffles, eggs in the centre; when cooked covered 
with brown sauce reduced with game stock. 

aux Ecrevisses — with Crayfish. 

Prepared in the same manner as "with Shrimps." 



76^ ^SS^y ^^^ How to Use Them. 

Eggs in Cases — Oeufs en Caisses 

& la Edison — Edison. 

Cases lined with chicken forcemeat mixed with 
puree of goose liver ; on the bottom of the case comes 
a layer of brown truffle sauce, the egg on top of it 
and covered with the rest of the forcemeat; cooked 
in a slow oven; when done glazed over with beef 
extract. 

a la Florentine — Florence Style. 

Line the cocottes with plain spinach tossed in but- 
ter, break the eggs into the center, and put in the 
oven. When half done, cover with Cream sauce, 
strew over grated cheese and finish to cook in the 
oven. 

aux Hultres — with Oysters. 

The soft part of oysters is cut in two and stewed 
in cream sauce; this is put on the bottom of the 
cases, the egg broken over it and cooked in the oven. 

a la Jaures — laures. 

Ham, truffles and crayfish tails cut in small. squares, 
stewed in Madeira sauce, put on the bottom of the 
cases, eggs over it and covered with a little lobster 
butter; when cooked a glazed slice of truffle is laid 
on each egg. 

a la Lorraine — Lorraine Style. 

Eggs in cream mixed with grated cheese and chives, 

d la Lucullus — Lucullus. 

Puree of foie gras mixed with chopped truffles on 
the bottom of the cases, eggs broken on top, and 
when cooked covered with Madeira sauce. 

a la Ma/rignam, — Marignan. 

The cases are lined with chicken forcemeat mixed 
with chopped mushrooms, fresh bread crumbs, yolks 
of eggs and butter; eggs are put in the centre, and 
when done besprinkled with chopped beeftongue and 
truffles. 



EgS^, o/nd Hoiv to Use Them. 77 

Eggs in Cases — Oeufs en Caisses 

d, la Monte Carlo — Monte Carlo Style. 

Chopped truffles and mushrooms mixed with a little 
beef extract put on the bottom of the cases, eggs 
broken on top, and when cooked covered with slices 
of truffles glazed over. 

d la Montfort — Montfort. 

The cases are lined with fish forcemeat mixed with 
chopped lobster, eggs broken into the centre, and 
when cooked covered with lobster sauce. 

a la Perigoiirdine — Perigord Style. 

Line the cocottes with puree of foie gras, add the 
eggs and cook in the oven. When done, cover 
with Perigueux (truffle) sauce. 

d, la Puree de TomAte — with pitree of Tomatoes. 

The eggs are broken on a layer of puree of toma- 
• toes, and when cooked covered with another layer 
of the same puree. 

au Ris de Veau — with Sweetbread. 

Sweetbread cut in squares and stewed in cream put 
on the bottom of the cases, eggs on top, and when 
done covered with a little cream sauce. 

aux Trulfes — with Truffles. 

Truffles cut in squares mixed with Madeira sauce 
put on the bottom of the cases, eggs on top, and 
when done covered with a slice of truffle glazed over. 

a la Vatel — Vatel. 

Sweetbread and truffles cut in squares mixed with 
puree of tomatoes ; eggs broken on top and covered 
with thick cream ; besprinkle with bread crumbs and 
cook in the oven. 



78 £gS^> '^"'^ Hozv to Use Them. 



Eggs Moulded in Timbales. 



THE term timbale, in cookery, is applied to anything 
having the shape of a small goblet; the meaning, 
however, has been greatly extended in the course of time, 
so much so, indeed, that many moulds of different shapes 
are termed timbales. 

The preparation of eggs moulded in timbales requires 
the same treatment as for eggs in cocottes, or eggs in 
cases, with this difference only, that they are not served 
in moulds, but are turned out upon the dish or plate, 
retaining the form of the mould. 

Eggs prepared in this manner should always be cooked 
in the bainmarie or water bath. 



Egg^i (^lid Hozv to Use Them. 79 

Eggs Moulded in Timbales — Oeufs Moules en 
Timbales 

a I'Arlcquin — Ha/rlequin Fashion. 

Buttered timbale moulds are besprinkled with 
chopped beeftongue, truffles and parsley, and then 
lined with a thin layer of chicken forcemeat, an tgg 
broken in the centre, and cooked in the oven from 
six to eight minutes; served on tomato sauce. 

a la Cardinal — Cardinal Style. 

Buttered timbale moulds besprinkled with chopped 
lobster coral, an egg broken in each, and cooked 
for six minutes ; served with lobster sauce. 

a, la Colbert — Colbert. 

Buttered timbale moulds, fancifully decorated with 
truffles, are lined with a thin layer of chicken force- 
meat ; eggs in the centre ; cooked as usual and served 
with Colbert sauce. 

a la Comtesse — Countess Fashion. 

Timbale moulds are lined as a la Colbert, and filled 
with scrambled eggs with asparagus tips, cooked just 
long enough until the forcemeat is done; served on 
veloute cream sauce. 

a la Coquelicot — Coquelicot. 

Parboiled sweet red peppers are put into buttered 
timbale moulds so that they adopt the shape of the 
mould, eggs broken into them and cooked as usual; 
served with cream sauce. 

d la Georgette — Georgette Style. 

Cook the eggs in buttered moulds (besprinkled with 
truffles), serve them on broiled mushrooms and pour 
over tarragon gravy^. 

a la Henri IV. — Henry IV. 

Eggs cooked in moulds and served with Bearnaise 
sauce. 



80 Eggs, and Hozv to Use Them. 

Eggs Moulded in Timbales — Oeufs Moules en 
Timbales 

a la Maintenon — Maintenon. 

Moulds besprinkled with chopped beeftongue, 
truffles and parsley; eggs cooked as usual; served 
with truffle sauce. 

& la Marechale — Marechale. 

Timbale moulds buttered with anchovy butter, one 
egg and the yolk of one egg put in each mould, 
cooked very soft and served with anchovy sauce. 

a la Polignac — Polignac. 

Timbale moulds besprinkled with chopped truffles; 
eggs cooked as Usual; served with HoUandaise 
sauce. 

a la Portugmse — Portugiiese Fashion. 

Besprinkle the buttered timbale moulds with chopped 
parsley, break in the eggs, cook in the bainmarie and 
serve on halves of tomatoes (previously broiled). 
Tomato sauce on the dish. 

a la puree d'Asperges — with puree of Asparagus. 

a, la puree de Marrons — zvith puree of Chestnuts. 

a la puree de Tomates — with puree of Tomatoes. 

Eggs moulded in timbales can be served with a great 
variety of purees; the moulds can be decorated ac- 
cording to the eater's or the cook's own taste. 
The puree is served under the eggs. 

a la Renaissance — Renaissance Style. 

Proceed as for ct la Colbert; serve with green Hol- 
landaise sauce. 

d la Scobeleif — Scoheleff. 

Eggs cooked in moulds and served with rich tar- 
ragon gravy. 

a la Vicom^tesse — Viscountess Fashion. 

Besprinkle the buttered moulds with truffles, add the 
eggs and cook; serve on small artichoke bottoms, 
pour over Cream sauce (blended with puree of aspa- 
ragus) and place on top of each timbale a glazed 
slice of truffle. 



Ei^gSj and Hoiv to Use Them. 81 



Hard Eggs. Stuffed Eggs. 

Cold Eggs. 



IN order that eggs should be properly hard boiled, they 
should be put into boiling water and allowed to re- 
main there ten minutes, and then cooled off in cold water. 
If cooked longer than ten minutes the yolk will acquire 
a blackish tint, and the white will exhale a disagreeable 
odor. A peculiar fact, which few persons are aware of, 
is that eggs which are cooked and cooled off, and then 
prove to be not sufficiently done, cannot be cooked any 
more if put back again into the boiling water. Hard 
boiled eggs can be kept a long time without decomposing, 
and they are therefore a very handy article of food for 
travelers. 

Stuffed eggs are usually prepared from hard eggs; 
the yolk is taken out and mixed \yith some sauce and 
other ingredients, and then put back into the egg. 

Eggs cooked in any style can be eaten when cold, 
though hard boiled eggs are most commonly eaten in 
that way. 



82 Eggs, and Hoiv to Use Them. 

Hard Eggs — Oeufs Durs 

a I'Aurore — Aurora. 

Hard eggs, of which the yolk is retained, are cut 
in sUces and mixed with cream sauce, put into a 
dish and besprinkled with the yolks which are 
squeezed through a wire sieve, and some melted 
butter ; put in the oven for a few minutes and served 
before they are browned too much. 

a la Bechamel — Bechamel. 

Hard eggs cut lengthwise in four; cream sauce 
poured over and gratinated. 

a la Bernardine — Bernardine. 

Hards eggs cut in slices and covered with crayfish 
sauce mixed with puree of onions. 

d la Chicoree — with Chicory. 

Hards eggs cut in quarters, served on a bed of 
chicory, surrounded with rich gravy. 

en Coquille — in Shell. 

Most of the different styles in which hard eggs 
are cooked can be served in shells ; this way of 
serving them is especially recommendable to facili- 
tate the service. 

a la Dreux — Dreux. 

Sliced hard boiled eggs mixed with cream sauce 
and garnished with sliced truffles, mushrooms and 
ham, put in shells and gratinated. 

aux Epinards — ivith Spinach. 

Hard eggs cut lengthwise in quarters on a bed of 
chopped spinach surrounded with rich gravy. 

a la Haz'anaise — Havana Style. 

Proceed as for Eggs, Chiinay style. Place each half 
egg on. a half tomato (previously cooked in the oven), 
pour Mornay sauce over the egg and gratinate in the 
oven. 



Eggs, and Hozv to Use Them. 83 

Hard Eggs — Oeufs Durs 

di la Hongroise — Hungarian Fashion. 

Same as "Eggs a la Tripe" with the addition of 
fine herbs and paprika pepper. 

a I'Indienne — Indian Style. 

Eggs cut in halves on a bed of boiled rice sur- 
rounded with cream curry sauce. 

a la Mmtre d' Hotel — Maitre d' Hotel. 

Hard eggs cut in sHces arranged on a dish and cov- 
ered with maitre d'hotel butter. 

d la Mathurin — Mathurin. 

Hard eggs cut in sHces, arranged on a dish by lay- 
ers, alternated with the soft part of oysters cooked 
in white wine, and sliced onions smothered in butter 
and mixed with matelote sauce. 

d la Norfolk — Norfolk Fashion. 

Hard eggs cut lengthwise in halves, dipped into 
beaten eggs and rolled in fresh bread crumbs, fried 
in hot fat and served with piquant sauce. 

aux Nouilles a la Italienne — zvith Noodles, Italian Fashion. 
Border of noodles with hard eggs cut in quarters 
and covered with tomato sauce in the centre. 

a I'Oseille — with Sorrel. 

Eggs cut in quarters on a bed of sorrel surrounded 
with rich gravy. 

<J la Reine — Queen's Fashion. 

SHce the eggs, add to Cream sauce with sliced mush- 
rooms and truffles, put in cases or shells, besprinkled 
with bread crumbs, grated cheese and melted butter, 
and bake in the oven. 

d la Religieuse — Nun's Fashion. 

Hard eggs cut in slices, covered with butter mixed 
with cheese and lightly gratinated. 



84 Eggs, and Hoiv to Use Them. 

Hard Eggs^ — Oevifs Durs 

a la Robert — Robert. 

Hard eggs cut in quarters with onions and mustard 
sauce. 

d, la Soubise — Soubise. 

Eggs cut in quarters served with cream &nion puree. 

d la Tripe — as Tripe. 

Minced onions are lightly smothered in butter and 
mixed with cream sauce; hard eggs cut in slices 
added 'to it and heated without boiling., 

d la Tyrolienne — Tyrolean Style. 

Eggs stuffed with the bruised yolks to which have 
been added finely chopped smoked beef tongue, 
mushrooms and a little Bechamel sauce. Give the 
eggs their natural shape, egg and bread crumb them, 
fry in hot lard and serve with tomato sauce. 

a la Verdi — Verdi Style. 

Place the quartered eggs on a bed of rice cooked with 
broth (to which has been added grated Parmesan 
cheese and foie gras cut in small cubes). Pour over 
Mornay sauce and bake in the oven. 

Stuffed Eggs (hard)— Oeufs Farcis 

a I' Allemande — German Fashion. 

Eggs cut in halves, the yolk taken out and mixed 
with a stuffing prepared with bread soaked in milk; 
two whole eggs and the yolk of three raw ones, 
seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; the eggs 
are stuffed with this mixture, the rest is diluted 
with cream and put on a dish, the eggs on top, be- 
sprinkled with bread crumbs and melted butter and. 
baked in the oven. 



Eggs, and Hoi^' to Use Them. 85 

Stuffed Eggs (hard) — Oeufs Farcis 

& la d'Annecy — d'Ann^cy. 

Eggs cut in halves, the yolks cut up and mixed 
with chopped onions and mushrooms previously 
cooked in butter, some raw yolk of egg is added, 
and the mixture put back in the eggs and gratinated ; 
serve with cream sauce. 

a la Bennet — Bennef. 

Eggs cut in halves or in the shape of a barrel, the 
yolk taken out and mixed with chopped anchovies, 
fine herbs arid some cream sauce ; the eggs are filled 
with this and put on a shirred egg dish, besprinkled 
with bread crumbs and melted butter; baked in the 
oven. 

a la Carmelite — Carmelite. 

Eggs stuffed with onions, parsley, sorrel, and the 
chopped yolks, baked in the oven. 

a la Celerini — Celerim Style. 

Eggs quartered, laid on a bed of spinach (covered 
with Cream sauce, mixed with grated cheese) and 
baked in a brisk oven. 

aux Champignons — zt^jV/t Mushrooms. 

Mushrooms cut in small squares, mixed with the 
chopped yolks of eggs and some white sauce; the 
eggs stuffed with this mixture, dipped in beaten 
eggs and rolled in bread crumbs and fried in hot fat. 

a la Chasseur — Hunter's Fashion. 

Eggs stuffed with game forcemeat; served with 
brown sauce. 

a la Chimay—Chimay Style. 

Cut the eggs in halves lengthwise. Chop the yolks 
very fine and mix with d'Uxelle or cooked fine 
herbs. Fill the eggs with this mixture, place on "a 
buttered dish, pour over Mornay sauce and bake 
in a brisk oven. 



86 Eggs, and Hoiv to Use Than. 

Stuffed Eggs (hard) — Oeufs Farcis 

a la Cointesse — Countess Style. 

Eggs cut lengthwise in halves, the yolk taken out 
and pounded with cooked chicken, some butter and 
a litle cream sauce; baked in the oven, and served 
oyer a puree of cauliflower. 

a la Constance — Constance. 

Eggs stuffed with chicken, ham and mushrooms cut 
in small cubes, mixed with the chopped yolk and 
some cream sauce ; gratinated and served with cream 
sauce. 

d la Dauphine — Dauphine. 

Eggs stuffed with chicken, and the yolks of eggs 
pounded together with cream sauce, baked in the 
oven; served with Madeira sauce. 

aux Epinards — ivith Spinach. 

Eggs cut in barrel shape, the yolk taken out, filled 
with spinach, a round slice of beeftongue of the 
same circumference as the egg is placed on top of 
each; served with a rich gravy. 

a la Fabri — Fabri Style. 

Eggs cut in quarters and placed on a buttered 
toast with chopped ham ; Veloute blended with 
Tomato sauce poured over. 

a la Fedora — Fedora. 

Eggs stuffed with a puree of gooseliver mixed with 
the chopped yolk served with truffle sauce. 

d la Garfield — Gariield. 

Eggs stuffed with forcemeat made of cooked 
chicken, ham and the ' yolk of eggs mixed with 
cream sauce, dipped in beaten egg, rolled in bread 
crumbs and fried in hot fat; served with piquant 
, sauce. 



Eggs, and Hozv to Use Thcni. 87 

Stuffed Eggs (hard) — Oeufs Farcis 

a la Gibson — Gibson Style. 

Proceed as for stuffed eggs, Tyrolean Fashion, but 
instead of Tomato sauce serve with puree of cel- 
ery. 

aii.Y Huitres — with Oysters. 

Soft part of oysters cut in four, cooked with white 
wine, mixed with cream sauce and the chopped 
yolks of eggs. Eggs stuffed with this, besprinkled 
with bread crumbs and melted butter and then 
gratinated. ' 

a I'Indienne — Indian Style. 

Eggs stuffed with curried rice mixed with the 
chopped yolk and cream sauce. 

a I'ltalienne — Italian Fashion. 

Eggs cut lengthwise into halves, stuffed with 
shallots, mushrooms and fine herbs cooked in butter 
and mixed with the chopped yolks of eggs, dipped 
in beaten eggs rolled in bread crumbs, fried in hot 
fat and served with tomato sauce. 

a la Leda — Leda Style. 

Proceed as for eggs a la tripe, fill some artichoke 
bottoms, sprinkle over with grated cheese, bread 
crumbs and melted butter and bake in a brisk 
oven. 

a la MagdU — Magda Style. 

Cut the eggs in halves. Mix the finely chopped 
yolks with half the amount of grated Swiss cheese, 
chopped fine herbs and a little French mustard. 
Stuff each egg with this mixture and give it the 
shape of a whole tgg; bread and fry in hot lard. 
Serve with Piquant sauce. 



88 Egi^, ('nd Hozu to Use Them. 

Stuffed Eggs (hard) — Oeufs Farcis 

a la Marius — Marius Style. 

Have ready some hard boiled eggs, cut off both 
ends so as to give the eggs the shape of a bairel 
and remove the yolks. Chop the yolk coarsely, 
add an equal amount of finely cut lobster, season 
to taste and bind with Mayonnaise sauce with 
chopped fine herbs and some partly melted jelly. 
Fill 1;he eggs with this preparation and besprinkle 
the top with chopped parsley, truffles and lobster 
coral. 

a la New Yorkaise — Nciv York Style. 

Cut six hard eggs in squares and mix with half 
the amount of fresh mushrooms (cut up the same 
size and cooked in butter) and enough Cream 
sauce to bind the eggs ; season well and fill into 
good sized green peppers from which the skins 
have been removed; heat well in the oven and 
serve with Madeira sauce. 



Eggs, and How to Use Them. 89 

Cold Eggs— Oeufs Froids 

En Aspic — in Jelly. 

Jelly may be obtained from many different materials, 
but what is most commonly used nowadays, and 
which fully covers the purpose is prepared gelatine. 
Science has given ample proof that jelly contains no 
substantial nutriment even if made exclusively with 
calf's feet. Prepare with one pint of good stock 
and with one ounce of Keystone Silver White Gel- 
atine-, some jelly well seasoned and perfumed with 
half glass each of Madeira and white wine, fine 
herbs, spices, etc. Put some tartelet or small oval 
pudding moulds on ice, and with a round soft brush 
apply some of the cold though not stiffened jelly; 
after a coating of one-eighth of an inch of jelly is 
applied, decorate it to your fancy with ham, beef- 
tongue, truffles, green peas, white of hard boiled 
&gg, gherkins, tarragon leaves, chervil, lobster coral, 
etc. Have some hard boiled eggs peeled and cut 
lengthwise into halves, lay half of an tgg in each 
pan and fill up by degrees with the remaining jelly; 
leave stand until quite firm ; dip the moulds into 
warm water and turn out its contents on a dish. 
Egg mollet, or poached eggs, may be used instead 
of the hard boiled, or in place of using small moulds 
one large one may be employed. 

En Belle-vue — in Belle-vue. 
Same as the above. 

au Beurre d'Anchois — with Anchovy Butter. 

Eggs cut lengthwise into halves put on oval shaped 
toasts and decorated with anchovy butter. 

au Beurre de Montpellier — with Montpellier Butter. 

Same as the aforesaid ; instead of anchovy butter 
use butter pounded with parsley, tarragon, chervil, 
chives, capers, gherkins and some yolks of hard 
boiled eggs passed through a fine hair sieve; if not 
green enough, color with spinach green or Breton 
coloring. 



. 90 Eggs, and How to Use Them. 

Cold Eggs — Oeufs Froids 

a la Boulonaise — Boulogne Style. 

Egg mollet dished around a salad prepared of cauli- 
flower, crayfish, crahmeat, mussels, well seasoned 
with French mustard and fine herbs. 

a la Cumberland — Cumberland. 

Equal quantities of cooked chicken breast, ham, pate 
de foie gras and fresh grated Parmesan cheese 
pounded together and passed through a fine sieve; 
put some of this forcemeat on oval shaped slices of 
toast and place on each part of an egg cut length- 
wise into half, and then cut in slices ; between each 
slice put some finely cut beeftongue and gherkins, 
and decorate with jelly. 

a la Danoise — Danish Fashion. 

Eggs cut lengthwise into halves, filled with lobster 
salad covered with Mayonnaise sauce and decorated. 

a rEcarlaiB — Ecarlate Style. 

Proceed as for "a la Lucullus," but instead of 
sliced goose liver and truffles, use sliced beef 
tongue. 

a I'Estragon — with Tarragon. 

Eggs cut lengthwise into halves, decorated with par- 
boiled tarragon leaves and covered with jelly fla- 
vored with tarragon. 

a la Justine — Justine. 

Eggs cut lengthwise into halves scooped out and 
stuffed with a p^uree of pheasant mixed with whipped 
cream and covered with Chaudfroid sauce, reduced 
with game stock; when cold decorate with truffles 
and gherkins. 

a la Lucullus — Lucullus Style. 

Coat some small timbal molds with jelly; fill them 
up with alternate slices of truffle, fat goose liver 
and hard boiled egg and fill with partly melted 
jelly; allow to get thoroughly stiff and serve with 
chopped jelly around. 



Eggs, and Hozu to Use Them. 91 

Cold Eggs — Oeufs Froids 

Marines — Pickled. 

Hard eggs peeled and put into a jar; boiling vinegar 
flavored with spices and fine herbs poured over; 
ready for use in three or four days. 

d la Mayonnaise — zvith Mayonnaise. 

Hard eggs sliced and covered with Mayonnaise sauce. 

& la Mentonnaise — Menton Style. 

Eggs cut lengthwise into halves, the yolk taken out 
chopped with anchovies and capers. Eggs are filled 
with this stuffing and a slice of tunny laid on each ; 
decorated with jelly. 

a la Moscovite — Moscow Style. 

Eggs stuffed with Russian salad. 

a la Normande — Norman Style. 

Remove the skin from one dozen sardines, break 
them up in small pieces, lay in shells and place a 
cold poached egg on the top of each ^hell. Gar- 
nish the border of ithe shells with finely shredded 
lettuce leaves and over the eggs pour some Ravi- 
gote sauce and sprinkle over chopped fine herbs. 
Lay a few fresh shrimps around the egg and serve 
cold. 

a la Norvegienne — Norwegian Fashion. 

Eggs cut lengthwise into halves, yolks chopped with 
anchovies; white part of the eggs filled with this 
stuffing and decorated with stuffed olives and an- 
chovies cut in strips. 

d, la Polonaise — Polish Style. 

Egg filled with salad prepared of lobster, pickled 
oysters, and gherkins mixed with Mayonnaise sauce. 



92 Eggs, and Hoiv to Use Them. 

Cold Eggs — Oeufs Froids 

a la Ravigote — Ravigote Style. 

Prepare some poached eggs (have ithem rather 
hard so as to be able to handle them without fear 
of breaking them), place them (when cooked) in 
cold water, and, when thoroughly cold, drain and 
trim them. Cut slices of cold beef tongue the 
same shape as the eggs. Then lay the eggs on top 
of the tongue and coat with green Chaudfroid 
sauce. When set, brush over with jelly and allow 
to get very cold before serving. 

a la Russe — Russian Style. 

Eggs cut lengthwise into halves, the yolks scooped 
out, white part stuffed with caviare, and decorated 
with strips of anchovies and the chopped yolks. 

en Salade — Salad. 

Hard eggs cut lengthwise into quarters seasoned 
with salt, pepper, vinegar, and, oil, dressed on nice 
leaves of lettuce, and before serving besprinkle with 
fine herbs. ' 

en Sandwich — Sandwich. 

Buttered slices of bread with eggs cut in slices 

between. 

Any variety of egg sandwiches can be served, using 

Mayonnaise or anchovy butter for moistening the 

bread, adding watercress, lettuce leaves, fine herbs, 

etc., to the eggs. 

a la Strassbourgeoise — Strasshurg Style. 

Cut some hard boiled eggs lengthwise in halves 
and take out the yolks. Make a puree of the yolks, 
adding the same amount each of pate de foi gras 
and butter, then season to taste and fill up the 
eggs, giving them their original shape and mak- 
ing them stand on the thicker part. 
Coat the eggs with brown Chaudfroid sauce, deco- 
rate nicely and brush over with partly melted 
jelly. Serve on a border of jelly. 



Eggs, and How to Use Them. 95 



Omelet. 



BRILLAT SAVARIN remarked very justly that, for 
an omelet to be excellent, it should never be made 
of more than twelve eggs. The writer goes still further, 
and says that, not more than eight eggs — and if the 
cook is not an adept in his profession, not more than six 
— should be used, as the production of an omelet, worthy 
of the name, is more difficult than many persons sup- 
pose, or than some are willing to admit. 

Three most important rules are to be followed in the 
preparation of an omelet. 

First: the omelet pan must be extremely clean, and 
never used for any other purpose. When not in use, it 
should always be left a little greasy; neither water nor 
any other liquid should ever come in contact with it. To 
clean the pan it should be slightly heated, and then 
rubbed with fine kitchen salt and a coarse towel, care 
being taken that the pan never becomes red-hot, as 
otherwise it is liable to become rough. 

Second: the eggs should be well beaten. Cooks who 
have a reputation for exactness of method, strain the 
eggs through a towel or a strainer, which gives the most 
satisfactory result, as the whites and the yolks become 
well mixed, and the omelet, when cooked, will not show 
those little white spots which are so often seen in omelets. 



94 Eggs, and How to Use Them. 

and which prove either the ignorance of the cook or his 
negligence in the preparation of them. 

Third : an omelet must always be cooked over a brisk 
fire; and here is where the ability of the cook is fully 
tested, as the quicker the omelet is made the better it is. 

Some cooks take pride in cooking omelets without 
stirring the eggs with a fork or a spoon, and it is true 
that some may succeed in this way; but, as a rule, such 
omelets are not so delicate as when the eggs are stirred 
while cooking. It is advisable to use a kitchen spoon 
for that purpose, as forks or other sharp utensils are 
likely to scratch the pan. 

RECIPE FOR OMELETS. 

Break six fresh eggs into a bowl, add a sufficient 
quantity of salt and pepper, and for every three eggs 
add one tablespoonful of thick cream; beat the egg well 
with an tgg whisk, or a fork, and strain into another 
bowl. Put two ounces of butter into the omelet pan, 
and when it is melted without being browned, turn in 
the eggs; stir continually with a kitchen spoon so that 
all the eggs are equally well cooked and are of the same 
consistency, keeping it very soft; leave it for two or 
three .seconds without stirring, and then fold it into 
three layers, beginning with the side nearest the handle ; 
this can be done with the spoon. Knock the bottom of 
the pan gently over the range so as to make the omelet 
move towards the outer part of the pan, and then fold 
the other part so that the omelet is a long oval in shape. 

To turn it out upon the dish, grasp the handle of the 
pan with the right hand, the thumb being uppermost and 
the palm of the hand underneath; hold the dish in the 
left hand, place the edge of the pan on the inner side of 



Eggs, and How to Use Them. 95 

the dish, and turn the pan upside down, moving from 
right to left. 

All this should take but three or four minutes, and at 
the same time exercising the greatest care not to over- 
cook the omelet, as it is so much more difficult to fold 
when too greatly solidified. 

Some persons like omelets of a golden hue, and to 
attain this it is only necessary, when the omelet is folded, 
to leave it over the fire for a few seconds. Flat omelets 
are served occasionally, but they are not so delicate by 
far as those made according to the above recipe. 

In the following recipes the terms fiUed and garnished 
are applied. Filled means that the omelet should be 
stuffed inside before folding, and garnished means that 
the omelet when folded and on the dish should be 
adorned with the garnishing. Sweet omelets are de- 
scribed under a special heading. 



96 Eggs, and Hozv to Use Them. 

Omelette — Omelet 

a rAfricaiiic — African Style. 

Omelet filled with rice cooked in broth flavored 
with onions and green peppers. Tomato sauce 
around the omelet. Garnished with small slices 
of fried eggplant. 

a I'Ail — ivith Garlic. , 

The bo'wl in wliich the eggs for the omelet are 
beaten is previously rubbed with garlic. 

a I'Algerienne — Algerian Style. 

Omelet filled and garnished with artichoke bottoms 
cut in squares, and stewed in tomato sauce. 

it V Americaitu — American Fashion. 

Omelet filled and garnished with lobster cut in 
cubes, and stewed with tomatoes and fine herbs. 

a I'Aimral — Admiral Style. 

Omelette filled with oysters in cream surrounded 
with shrimp sauce and garnished with fried mus- 
sels a la Villeroi. 

a I'Anglaise — English Style. 

Plain omelet garnished with broiled strips of bacon. 

au.v Asperges^-with Asparagus Tips. 

Omelet garnished with cooked asparagus tips tossed 
in butter. Asparagus tips may also be mixed with 
the omelet. 

a la Bayonncdse — BcDyonne Style. 

Omelet filled with ham and red pepper cut in 
squares, surrounded with tomato sauce. 

a la B earnaise—B earnaise Style. 

Omelet filled with mushrooms and artichoke bot- 
toms cut in squares and stewed in tomato sauce. 
The top of the omelet garnished with rings of an- 
chovy fillets into which some cold Bearnaise sauce is 
put. 



Eggs, and Hozv to Use Them. 97 

Omelette — Omelet 

a la Bertini — Bertini Style. 

Omelette filled with risotto and garnished with 
celery (cut small and stewed in Veloute sauce). 

a la Bretonne — Brittany Style. 

One finely-sliced onion, the white of one leek and 
three well-cleaned fresh mushrooms sauted in but- 
ter and mixed with the eggs. 

aux Cepes — with Cepes. 

Omelet filled and garnished with cepes cut in dice, 
fried in oil and stewed in brown sauce. 

a la Cervelle — with Brains. 

Omelet filled and garnished with calf's brains cut 
in squares and stewed in cream sauce. 

aux Champignons — mth Mushrooms. 

Omelet filled and garnished with mushrooms cut in 
squares and stewed in iMadeira sauce. 

a la Charcutiere — Pork Butcher's Fashion. 

Omelet with bacon and onions, garnished with slices 
of bloodpudding and surrounded with mustard sauce. 

des Chasseurs — Hunter's Fashion. 

Omelet filled with puree of game, surrounded with 
Madeira sauce reduced with game stock. 

a la Chatelaine — Chatelaine. 

Omelet filled with mushrooms, truffles, breast of par- 
tridge and salt pork cut in squares and stewed in 
brown sauce. 

a la Chesapeake — Chesapeake Style. 

Fill and surround the omelette with oysters, celery 
and oyster crabs stewed a la Maryland. 

a la Ciboulette — with Chives. 

Chives mixed with the beaten eggs. 



98 Eggs, and Ho7v to Use Them. 

Omelette — Omelet 

aux Clams — with Hard Clams. 

Omelet filled and garnished with the belly part — i. e., 
the soft part of clams stewed in cream. 

aii,x Concombres — with Cucumbers. 

Omelet filled and garnished with cucumbers stewed 
in cream. 

aux Crates Durs — with Hard Crabs. 

Omelet filled and garnished with crab meat stewed 
in cream. 

aiix Crates d'Hmtres — with Oyster Crabs. 

This omelet may be served in three different ways. 

1. Plain, omelet garnished with fried oyster crabs. 

2. Oyster crabs fried in butter and mixed with the 
beaten eggs. 

3. Omelet filled and garnished with oyster crabs 
stewed in cream. 

aux Crevettes — zvith Shrimps. 

Omelet filled and garnished with shrimps stewed in 
cream. 

a la Derby — Derby. 

Omelet filled and garnished with fat gooseliver and 
mushrooms cut in squares and stewed in Madeira 
sauce. 

a la Diep poise — Dieppe Style. 

Omelet with fine herbs, filled with mussels and mush- 
rooms stewed in white wine sauce. 

a la Durand — Durand. 

Omelet filled with asparagus tips and truffles tossed 
in butter, garnished with artichoke bottoms and mush- 
rooms cut fine and stewed in cream. 

d I'Ecarlate — Ecarlate. 

Tliick puree of tomatoes well beaten up with the eggs 
in order that they may obtain a red tint; omelet 
covered with tomato sauce. 



Esg■s^ <^»d How to Use Them. 99 

Omelette^ — Omelet 

mix Ecrevisses — luith Crayfish. 

Omelet filled and garnished with crayfish stewed in 
cream. 

a I'Egyptienne — Egyptian Fashion. • 

Omelet filled and garnished with sliced breasts of 
quails and truffles stewed in brown sauce. 

aux Epinards — with Spinach. 

Omelet filled with spinach and surrounded with rich 
gravy. 

a I'EspagnoIe — Spanish Style. 

Finely shredded onions and green peppers smothered 
in oil with ham cut in squares; when sufficiently 
cooked add some peeled and squeezed tomatoes cut 
into eight parts, or if the tomatoes are large, in still 
more parts; stew gently for ten to twelve minutes, 
add some beef extract and fill and garnish the omelet 
with this preparation. Sometimes shrimps, oysters 
or sweetbread are added to the above. 

a I'Estragon — with Tairragon. 

Chopped tarragon mixed with the eggs. 

aux Fines Herbes — with Fine Herbs. 

Eggs for omelet mixed with finely chopped parsley, 
chives and chervil. 

aux Fines Herbes Cuites — with Cooked Fine Herbs. 

Eggs for omelet mixed with previously cooked and 
chopped shallots, mushrooms, parsley and chervil. 

d, la Flamcmde — Flemish Fashion. 

Omelet filled with spinach and garnished with calf's 
brains and brown sauce. 

aux Flews de Co-urge — zvith Pumpkin Buds. 

Pumpkin buds cut small, fried slightly in butter and 
mixed with the beaten eggs. 



100 Eggs, and How to Use Thciii. 

Omelettei — Omelet 

a la Florentine — Florence Style. 

Omelette filled with plain spinach tossed in butter 
and surrounded with cream sauce. 

aux Foies de Volcdlles — with Chicken Livers. 

Omelet filled and garnished with chicl^en livers cut 
in squares and stewed in Madeira sauce. 

aux Fmids d'Artichmcts — with Artichoke Bottoms. 

Artichoke bottoms cut in squares, fried in butter and 
mixed with the beaten eggs. 

au Fromage — with Cheese. 

Grated cheese mixed with beaten eggs ; the best sorts 
of cheese for this purpose are Parmesan or Gruyere. 

a la Grand-Due — Grand Duke's Fashion. 

Omelette with asparagus tips tossed in butter. 
Surrounded with truffle sauce. 

d, la Grecque — Greek Fashion. 

Omelet filled with egg plant (cut in cubes, sauted in 
butter and added to Madeira sauce). Tomato sauce 
flavored with onions and green pepper around the 
omelet. 

au Hareng Sour — zvith Smoked Herring. 

Smoked herring, boned and cut in small squares, 
fried in butter and mixed with the beaten eggs, 

a la Havanaise — Havana Style. 

Omelette with chicken livers and red peppers 
(sauted in Madeira sauce). 

a la Hollandaise — Dutch Style. 

The yolk of eggs mixed with fine herbs, the whites 
well whisked to froth and mixed with the yolks ; flat 
omelets are prepared from this mixture and served 
with sliced broiled smoked salmon. 



Eggs, and How to Use Them. 101 

Omelette — Omelet 

an Homard — with Lobster. 

Omelets filled and garnished with lobster cut in 
squares and stewed in cream. 

a la Hongroise — Hungarian Style. 

Fill the omelette with onions smothered' in butter, 
cream sauce added, and season highly with pap- 
rika. 

aux HuUres — with Oysters. 

Omelet filled and garnished with the soft part of the 
oysters stewed in white wine and cream sauce. 

a la Ifalienne — Italian Style. 

Add to the eggs (before the omelette is cooked) 
some grated Parmesan cheese and garnish the 
omelette with stewed tomatoes. 

a I'Imperatrice — Empress Fashion. 

Omelet filled and garnished with soft part of oysters 
and sliced breast of chicken stewed in cream. 

a I'Indienne — Indian Style. 

Onions finely sliced, smothered in butter and mixed 
with the beaten eggs; seasoned with curry powder; 
omelet filled with boiled rice and served with currj 
cream savice. 

mi Jambon — with Ham. 

Ham cut iu small squares, fried in butter and mixed 
with the beaten eggs. 

a la Jasrdiniere — Gardener's Fashion. 

Onions sliced fine, smothered in butter 'and then 
mixed with the eggs ; omelet filled and garnished with 
carrots, turnips, peas, bean's, artichockes and mush- 
rooms cut in squares and stewed in cream; tomato 
sauce around the omelet. 



102 ESi^> ^'^^- fioiv to Use Thcin. 

Omelette — Omelet 

au Jus — lidth Gravy. 

Plain omelet surrounded with rich grav}-. 

a la Lanque de Boeuf Funue — with Snwked Becf-fongue. 
Same as "Omelet au Jambon." 

au Lard — with Bacon. 

1. The beaten eggs mixed with small pieces of fried 
bacon. 

2. Omelet garnished with broiled strips of bacon. 

a la Lorenzo — Loi'enso Style. 

Garnished with creamed crab flakes, mixed with 
chopped green peppers. The top of omelette gar- 
nished with glazed slices of truffles. 

a la Lyonaise — Lyonese Fashion. 

Onions sliced finely and smothered in butter, mixed 
with the beaten eggs and some grated Parmesan 
cheese. 

a la Macedoine — Matcedoine. 

Omelet filled and garnished with different kinds of 
vegetables stewed in cream. 

a la Maitre d' Hotel — Maltre d' Hotel. 

Omelet filled and garnished with sweetbreads cut in 
squares, cooked in butter with fine herbs and beef 
extract. 

a la Malako'ff — Malakoif Style. 

To four raw eggs add one tablespoonful of thickly- 
reduced tomato puree. Garnish the omelette with 
stewed fresh tomatoes, mixed with plain boiled 
rice. 

des Matelots — Sailors' Fashion. 

The bowl in which the eggs for. the omelet are beaten 
is rubbed with garlic; andiovies cut in small squares 
mixed with the eggs, omelet garnished with slices of 
smoked salmon and surrounded with tomato sauce. 



Egg^, (ind Hozv to Use Them. 103 

Omelette — Omelet 

a la- M edicts — M edicts . 

Omelet filled and garnished with breast of quail, truf- 
fles, an'd mushrcxjms cut in squares and stewed in 
Madeira sauce. 

a la Mexicaine — Mexican Fashion. 

Omelet filled and garnished with shrimps and sweet 
peppers cut small and stewed in shrimp sauce. 

rt la Milanaise — Milanese Fashion. 

Omelet filled and garnished with spaghetti cut one 
inch long and mixed with shredded truffles, ham, 
mushrooms, tomato sauce and grated Parmesan 
cheese. 

a la Moelle de Boeuf — with Beef Marrow. 

Omelet filled and garnished with beef marrow cut 
in squares, parboiled and stewed in brown sauce. 

a la Monselet — Monselet. 

Omelet filled and garnished witli truffles and arti- 
chokes cut in squares and stewed in cream; tomato 
sauce with beef extract around the omelet. 

a la MoMglas—Montglas. 

Omelet filled and garnished with ragout as for 
poached eggs. (See "Poached Eggs Montglas.") 

a la Mornay — Mornay. 

Omelet filled and garnished with sliced truffles and 
chicken stewed in cream^ sauce. 

aux Moules — with Mussels. 

Omelet filled and garnished with mussels stewed in 
white wine and cream. 

a la Mousseline — Foam Omelet. ■ 

The whites of eggs are well whisked to a stiff froth 
and mixed with the yolks ; cooked as usual. 



104 ^SS^) ('"d Hozv to Use Them. 

Omelette — Omelet 

a la Moicsseline cm Parmesan — Foam. Omelet with Par- 
mesan Cheese. 
Same as above with the addition of grated Parmesan 
cheese to the eggs. 

a la Nantim — Nantua Fashion. 

Omelet filled and garnished with crayfish and truf- 
fles stewed in cream sauce with crayfish butter. 

a la Normande — Norman Style. 

Omelet filled with oysters and shrimps and garnished 
with very small fried smelts. 

a la Nouvelle Orleans — Nezu Orleans Style. 

Omelette made with finely-sliced onions and green 
peppers, both previously cooked in butter. Gar- 
nish with okra stewed with fresh tomatoes. 

aux Oeufs d'Alose — with Shad Roe. 

1. Shad roes cut in small squares, fried in butter and 
mixed with the omelet. 

2. Omelet filled and garnished with shad roe pre- 
viously cooked and then cut in squares and stewed 
in cream. 

aux Oignons — zvith Onions. 

Onions sliced very fine, smothered in butter and then 
mixed with the beaten eggs. 

aux Oignons Nouveaux — with Spring Onions. 

Omelet garnished with small glazed spring onions. 

aux Olives — with Olives. 

Omelet filled and garnished with small olives stewed 
in brown sauce. 

aux Olives Farcies — with Stuffed Olives. 

1. Same as above only use olives stuffed with chicken 
forcemeat and chopped truffles. 

2. Stuffed olives mixed with beaten eggs; omelet 
cooked in the usual way. 



Eggs, and Hoiv to Use Them. 105 

Omelette — Omelet 

a I'Oseille — with Sorrel. 

'Sorrel cleaned and cut fine; cooked in butter until 
dry, and then mixed with the beaten eggs. 

a la Parisienne — Parisian Style. 

Omelet as "a, la Moiisseline,"' with the addition of 
chopped shallots, mushrooms, parsley, and ham 
cooked in butter. 

au Parmesan — mth Parmesan Cheese. 

Beaten eggs mixed with grated Parmesan cheese. 

a la Paysanne — Fairmers' Fashion. 

Tomatoes peeled and well squeezed, cut up and 
cooked in butter until all moisture is evaporated; 
then mixed with the beaten eggs and the omelet 
cooked as usual; served with brown sauce or rich 
gravy and garnished with little crusts, filled with 
puree of onions. 

au Persil — with Parsley. 

Chopped parsley mixed with eggs. 

au.v Petits Pais — with Green Peas. 

Green peas mixed with beaten eggs. 

a la Piemontaise — Piedmont Style. 

Omelette garnished with small timbals of risotto. 
Tomato sauce. 

aux Piments Verts — with Green Peppers. 

Qiopped green peppers cooked in butter 'and mixed 
with beaten eggs. 

aux Pointes d'Asperges — with Asparagus Tips. 

1. Cooked asparagus tips cut in small pieces and 
mixed with the eggs. 

2. Omelet filled and garnished with cooked asparagus 
tips steAved in cream sauce. 



106 E,ggs, and Hozv to Use Them. 

Omelette — ^Omelet 

mix Pointes de Houblon — with Hop Sprigs. 

Can be prepared as "with asparagus tips.'' 

aux Pommes de Terre — ivitk Potatoes. 

Raw potatoes cut in small squares fried in butter and 
mixed with the eggs. 

a la Portugaise — Poi'tuguese Style. 

Chopped fine herbs, olives, and anchovies mixed with 
the eggs ; omelet surrounded with tomato sauce. 

des Prelats — Prelate Fashion. 

Omelet garnished and filled witli herrings' soft roe, 
crab meat, crayfish tails, mushrooms and truffles 
stewed in white wine sauce. 

d la Princesse — Princess Fashion. 

Omelette filled with asparagus tips in cream. Top 
of the omelette garnished with glazed slices of 
truffles. Surrounded with cream sauce. 

d la Printaniere — Spring Omelette. 

A handful of well-cleaned sorrel (finely-shredded 
and cooked in butter), chopped parsley, chives 
and chervil mixed with eggs. Parsley sauce. 

d la Provencale — Provencial Style. 

Omelet filled with minced onions and garlic smoth- 
ered in oil, surrounded with tomato sauce. 

a la puree d'Artichauts — with puree of Artichokes. 

a la puree d'Asperges — with puree of Asparagus. 

a la puree de Cliampignons — with puree of Mushrooms. 

d la puree de Chouxfleurs — with puree of Cauliflower. 

h la puree d'Oseille — with puree of Sorrel. 

d la puree de Tomates — with puree of Tomatoes. 



^SS^> o-nd Hozv to Use Them. 107 

Omelette — Omelet 

d la puree de Volaille — imfh puree of Fowl. 

Omelets like poached eggs, or tgg mollets, can be 
served with a great variety of purees; the omelet is 
filled with the puree and surrounded with gravy or 
brown sauce. 

a la Reforme — Reform Club Style. 

Same garnishing as for "Fried Eggs a la Reforme." 

a la Reine — Queen Style. 

Fill the omelette with puree of chicken and place 
on top glazed slices of truffles. Cream sauce 
around the omelette. 

aux Ris de Veau — with Sweetbread. 

Omelet filled and garnished with sweetbread cut in 
squares and stewed in cream. 

a la Robert — Robert Fashion.. 

■ Omelet with onions and bacon. 

aux Rognofi-s de Monton — ivith Mutton Kidneys. 

Omelet filled and garnished with mutton kidneys cut 
in squares and stewed in Madeira sauce. 

aux Rognofis de Veau — zvith Veal Kidneys. 
Same as above. 

d, la Rossini — Rossini Style. 

Eggs mixed with fat goose liver and truffles cut in 
small squares. The top of the omelette may be 
garnished with glazed slices of truffles. Madeira 
sauce on the dish. 

a la Royale — Royal Style. 

Fill the omelette and garnish on the outside with 
truffles, sweetbreads, breast of chicken ,and mush- 
rooms (all previously cooked), cut in small 
squares and added- to supreme sauce mixed with 
one-third tomato sauce. 



108 Eggs, and Hozv to Use Them. 

Omelette — Omelet 

a la Russe — Russian Style. 

Small omelet filled with caviare; generally served 
cold ; but it can be served hot also. 

au.v Soft Ckmts — with Soft Clams. 

Prepared as with "Hard Clams;" should the soft 
clams be too large, they may be cut into halves, but it 
is preferable to have them small. 

a la Soubise — Soubise. 

Omelet filled with white puree of onions. 

d, la Suisse — Swiss Style. 

Gruyere cheese cut in small squares and mixed with 
the eggs. 

au Thon a la Brillat-Savarin — with Tunny Brillat-Savarin 
Style. 
The soft roe of carp cooked in water for a few min- 
utes is chopped with some tunny, then cooked in but- 
ter with chopped shallots and mixed with the beaten 
eggs. Omelet cooked as usual and served on a dish 
with melted maitre d'hotel butter. 
(See Brillat-Savarin's Omelette du Cure in his Physi- 
ologie du Gout.) 

aux Tomates — with Tomatoes. 

Omelet filled and garnished with tomatoes previously 
peeled, squeezed, cut in quarters and then stewed in 
butter. 

d, la Trafalgar — Trafalgar Style. 

Omelette surrounded with cream sauce and gar- 
nished with fried deviled whitebait. 

Tricolores — in Three Colors. 

'Small omelets of which one is cooked plain; one 
mixed with thick puree of tomatoes and one as ex- 
plained for "omelette verte" or green omelet. 



Egg-^j and Hozv to Use Them. 109 

Omelette — Omelet 

aux Truifes — with Truffles. 

1. Truffles cut in squares and mixed with the beaten 
eggs ; omelet surrounded with gravy. 

2. Omelet filled and garnished w^th truffles cut in 
squares and stewed in Madeira sauce. 

d, la Tyrolienne — Tyrolean Style. 

Omelette filled with stewed tomatoes and gar- 
nished with fried onions. 

Verte — Green Omelet. 

Chopped parsley, chervil, tarragon, chives, spinach 
and sorrel (the two latter previously cooked in but- 
ter) are mixed with the eggs ; omelet cooked as usual. 

des Voyageurs — Travelers' Omelet. 

Omelet cooked flat, put on a plate until cold and then 
filled with a puree prepared of cooked ham, chicken, 
and butter, seasoned with pepper, salt, and mustard ; 
the omelet is rolled like a French pancake and eaten 
cold. 

a la Zingara — Zingara Style. 

Omelette filled with shredded truffles, mushrooms 
and ham mixed with thickly reduced tomato 
sauce. The omelette surrounded with brown 
sauce. 

des Zouaves — Zouave Fashion. 

Chopped truffles, mushrooms, ham, and tarragon 
mixed with eggs; omelet cooked as usual and gar- 
nished with small crusts filled with puree of onions. 

Omelettes Sucrees — Sweet Omelets 

aux Bananes — with Bananas. 

Omelet filled and garnished with bananas cut in slices 
and cooked in syrup. Omelet bestrewn with pow- 
dered sugar and glazed with a red hot omelet iron. 



110 EggSj and How to Use Them. 

Omelettes Sucrees — Sweet Omelets 

a la Celestine — Celestinc. 

Small omelets alternately filled with Frangipane 
cream, apple and strawberry marmalade, etc., glazed 
as above. 

fiux Confitures — with Preserves. 

These omelets with souffle and rum omelets are most 
commonly known and served among sweet omelets. 
A sweet omelet before serving should always be 
strewn over with powdered sugar and glazed with the 
omelet iron, which must be red hot and dipped in 
water before using. Omelets can be filled with many 
different marmalades, jams, and jellies, and preserves 
as can be seen from the following: 

mix Abricots — with Apricot Jam. 

aux Coings — with Qidnce Marmalade. 

aux Praises — witJi Strawberry Jam. 

aux Pramboises — with Raspberry Jam. 

d la Gelee de Groseille — xmth Red Currant Jelly. 

a la Gelee de Guava — with Guava Jelly. 

aux Groseilles de Bar le Due — with Bar le Due Currants. 

d I' Orange — with Orange Marmalade. 

d la Dauphirte — Dauphine Style. 

Omelets filled with apple marmalade and garnished 
with whipped cream flavored with vanilla. 

a la Prangipame — with Prangipane Cream. 

Omelet filled with Frangipane cream prepared as fol- 
lows: 

Prangipane Cream: Mix together three egg yolks 
and one whole &gg, two ounces of powdered sugar, 
one ounce of butter, a little vanilla or lemon flavor- 
ing, four ounces of flour, and one gill each of milk 
and cream; put in a saucepan and set on the fire to 
boil, stirring continuously. As soon as it commences 
to boil take off the fire and add one ounce of nut but- 
ter ; it is then ready for use. If desired some crushed 
macaroons mav be added. 



EggSj and How to Use Them. Ill 

Omelettes Sucrees — Sweet Omelets 

aux Fruits Confits — with Preserved Fruits. 

Omelet filled and garnished with assorted preserved 
fruits, as peaches, pears, green gages, cherries, etc. 
Cut into small pieces and mixed with apricot marma- 
lade diluted with syrup, flavored with Kirschwasser, 
rum or other liquors. 

ail Kirschwasser— with Kirschwasser. 

Sweet omelet cooked plain, glazed as usual; before 
serving Kirschwasser is poured over the omelet and 
fire set to it. 

aux Pormnes — with Apples. 

Omelet filled with apples peeletj and cut in quarters, 
then minced fine and cooked with butter and sugar ; 
omelet cooked and glazed as usual. 

aux Pommes, d I'Alsacienne — with Apples, Alsatian 
Fashion. 
This is more a pancake than omelet; in Alsace, how- 
ever, it is called omelet and we shall therefore append 
it. Apples cooked as above are mixed with a batter 
prepared with one spoonful of flour, two whole eggs 
and one gill of cream seasoned with a pinch of salt 
and sugar ; cooked on both sides like a pancacke ; be- 
fore serving besprinkled with powdered sugar. 

au Rhum — with Rum. 

Prepared as "Omelette au Kirsch;" instead of the 
' latter rum is used. 

Souffle e Nature — Plain Puff Omelet. 

.There are four principal facts to. observe if one de- 
sires to have success when preparing puff omelets. 
1st. The yolks of eggs must be well mixed with the 
sugar until they become quite foamy. 2d. The 
whites must be whisked to a stiff froth. 3d. The 
omelet must be cooked in a hot oven. And 4th, the 



112 ^Sg^, O'^d How to Use Them. 

Omelettes Sucrees — Sweet Omelets 

omelet must be eaten immediately without delay if 
its quality should not deteriorate. 

RECIPE : 

The yolks of three eggs are gradually mixed with 
six tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, until it becomes 
smooth and light; the whites -of six eggs are 
whisked to a stiff froth and then mixed with the 
yolks and the sugar; this must be done gently but 
quick, only taking a small part of the egg froth to 
commence with. A dish is buttered and bestrewn 
with powdered sugar, the e.gg mass put on it in an 
oblong shape, besprinkled with powdered sugar and 
cooked in a hot oven. 

Some cooks find pleasure in decorating the omelet ; 
but this is optional and left to the cook. Puff ome- 
lets can be flavored with various essences and. per- 
fumes, as can be seen from the following: 

SovMee omx Amandes — ivith Almonds. 

Same as above with the addition of pounded bitter 
almonds, or extract of almonds. 

SoufHee au Citron — imth Lemon. 

Same as plain puff omelet with the addition of lemon 
flavoring; either finely chopped rind of lemon, or 
lemon extract. 

SoiiMee au Chocolat — with Chocolate. 

Tablets of vanilla chocolate are heated in the oven 
until they are soft, then crushed and mixed with 
the sugar and yolks of eggs, the same proceedings 
as for plain puff omelet. 

SouMee aux Confitures— with Preserves. 

Same as "Vanilla Puff Omelet," with preserves in 
the centre of the omelet. 



Eggs, and How to Use Them. 113 

Omelettes Sucrees^ — Sweet Omelets 

SouMee aux Fleurs d'Orange — with Orange Blossom. 
Same as "Plain Puff Omelet" with the addition of 
orange blossom water. 

SoufHee mi Macaroons — with Macaroons. 

Crushedmacaroons are mixed with plain pyff omelet 
and cooked as usual. 

SouMee a la Vanille — with Vanilla. 

Plain puff omelet flavored with vanilla extract or the 
inner part of vanilla beans. 



114 EggS; and How to Use Them. 



Oeufs Sucres — Sweet Eggs. 



Crenie a I'Angiaise — English cream. 

Five yolks of eggs mixed with four ounces of 
powdered sugar are diluted with one pint of boiling 
rnilk, brought to the fire to thicken without boiling, 
stirring constantly. Flavor to taste, either witli 
vanilla, almonds, lemon, or orange flavor. 

Creme au Cafe — Caifee Custard. 

Half pound of roasted coffee thrown into one quart 
of boiling milk; covered herm,etically, and infused 
for a half hour, then strained through a fine sieve ; 
mixed with the yolks of six and the whites of three 
eggs, and six ounces of powdered sugar, all pre- 
viously beaten together ; strained once more and then 
filled into moulds— these are put into a pan with 
boiling water and pushed into a slack oven without 
permitting the water to boil ; when cooked put away 
to cool off ; unmold and serve when cold. 

Crem£ au Caramel — Caramcel Custard. 

Put a few lumps of sugar with the juice of a lemon, 
into a. copper pan, and put on the range; cook until 
of a light golden brown, and then pour into the 
mould in which the custard is to be cooked; when 
cold fill up with the same preparation as for Crime 
au Cafe, with the omission of coffee and cook as 
stated above. 

Creme au Citrofih— Lemon Custard. 

Same proportions as for coffee custard, but flavored 
with the rind of lemond instead of coffee. 



Eggs, and Hozv to Use Them. 115 

Oeufs Sucre? — Sweet Eggs 

Creme Meringuees — Meringue Custard. 

1. Custards cooked in small moulds, placed on round 
slices of sponge cakes^ covered and decorated with 
mdrisigue preparation. 

2. Pie dish lined with short paste or puff-paste trim- 
mings, filled with custard and baked in a slack oven, 
then covered and decorated with meringue mass. 
See "Meringue." 

Creme d, I'Orange — Orange Custard. 

Vanilla beans put into the milk before boiling, the 
same proceeding as for other custards. 

Crime a la Vanilla — Vanilla Custard. 

Same proportioa as stated above, flavored with 
orange rind. 

Meringue — Meringue. 

In cooking and confectionery two different sorts of 
meringue are prepared, which have this in common, 
that they are exclusively prepared with whipped 
whites of eggs and sugar. 

Meringue Ordinaire — Plain Meringue. 

The whites of twelve eggs are beaten to a stiff froth 
and gradually mixed with one pound of sifted 
powdered sugar. 

Meringue Italienne — Italiam Menw-^w^. 

One pound of sugar cooked to the blow degree is 
mixed and vigorously beaten with the froth of six 
egg whites. 

This preparation is not quite as light as "Plain 
■ Meringu£," but will be found useful on many oc- 
casions. 



116 Eggs, and How to Use Them. 

Oeufs Sucres — Sweet JJggs 

Meringues a la Chantilly — Chaniilly Meringites. 

Fill a pastry bag, into which a round tube of a half 
inch in diameter is slided, with plain meringue and 
press it out in the shape of a half tgg on to some 
trips of paper cut about two inches wide ; besprinkle 
with powdered sugar; place them on a thick board 
previously dampened, and bake in a very moderate 
oven with the door open until they are of a light 
color; meringues should be rather dried than baked. 
When they are sufficiently cooked, take them off 
the paper, and with the thumb make an impression 
on their flat side ; put them in a warm place to finish 
drying. 

When cold they are served with whipped cream 
flavored with vanilla. 

Meringues can be served with creams of different 
flavors, or with a sweet puree of chestnuts mixed 
with whipped cream; they can also be served with 
ice creams. 

Oeufs a la Neige — Snow Eggs or Floating Islands. 

Have two quarts of boiling milk in a flat shallow 
pan; with a tablespoon drop in some meringue 
preparation in the shape and size of an Ggg, then 
cover the pan and draw it to the edge of the range 
so that the meringue will cook without the milk boil- 
ing; when firm enough take out the meringues and 
lay them on a hair sieve. With the rest of the milk 
prepare an English cream, and when cold put on 
a dish and the meringue on top. 

Oeufs en Surprise au Blanc-manger — Surprise Eggs 
with Blanc-mange. 
Make little holes on both sides of raw eggs and 
blow out their contents into a bowl for further use. 
Qose up one of the holes with paste and through the 
other opening fill the tgg with Blanc-mange prepared 
as follows : Pound together half ounce of bitter and 



Eggs, and Hoiv to Use Them. 117 

Oeufs Sucres — Sweet Eggs 

eight ounces of sweet almonds with two tablespoon- 
f uls of orange flower water ; dilute with one pint of 
hot milk and one of cream; add nine sheets of Key- 
stone Silver IV kite Gelatine previously soaked in 
water, and when melted straip into a bowl. 
When the eggs are filled with this, set them on ice, 
and when firm, they are ready for serving. 

Oeufs en Surprise au Chdcolat— Surprise Eggs with 
Chocolate. 
Same proceedings as above; instead of almonds 
chocolate is used for flavoring. 

Pudding a la Moscovite — Moscow Pudding. 

Fill a pudding mould with plain meringue and cook 
in the water-bath as custard. When cold unmould 
and serve with English cream. 

Sabayon — Sabayon. 

Saybayon is most commonly served as a sauce, al- 
though it is often enough served ill glasses, as an 
entremet by itself. It is generally made with white 
wine, a dry wine being preferable, but it can also be 
prepared with sherry, Madeira, rum, Kirschwasser, 
brandy, etc. 

Put in a copper pan or basin five yolks and the white 
of one egg, with four ounces of powdered sugar, and 
a half wineglassful of dry white wine. Set it on a 
slow fire and whip vigorously until of the consistenc% 
of whipped cream', then serve in glasses or spread 
over the pudding as desired. 



118 EggSj and How to Use Them. 



Miscellaneous Recipes. 

Becassc Ecossaise — Scotch Woodcock. 

Many cooks when serving this dish simply dish up 
scrambled eggs on anchovy toast; but this is an er- 
ror, only the egg yolks should be used and be mixed . 
with cream. Proceed as follows : 
Beat four eggs with one gill of cream, season with 
salt and pepper, but in a sauce-pan over the fire, and 
stir continuously until thick without boiling, then 
pour this preparation over some anchovy toasts and 
serve. 

Beignets d'Oeufs — Egg Fritters. 

Hard boiled eggs cut lengthwise into halves, stuflfed 
with some kind of cooked forcemeat, dipped in fry- 
ing batter and fried in hot fat ; served on a napkin. 

Bouchees d'Oeufs a, la Creme — Small Patties of Eggs 
in Creaxm. 
Small patties filled with hard eggs cut in squares 
and tossed in cream sauce. 

Chomesquis d'Oeufs ainx Truffes — Egg Crovtesquis with 
TruMes. 
Hard eggs and truffles cut in squares, tossed in 
cream sauce, thickened with raw egg yolks and set 
aside to cool ; when cold wrap up some of this egg 
preparation in thin pancakes, then dip in frying bat- 
ter and fry in hot fat; serve on a napkin. 



Eggs, and Hozu to Use Them. 119 

Miscellaneous Recipes — Continued 

Cromesquis d^Oeufs a la Colbert — Eggs Cromesquis, Col-- 
bert Sauce. 

Prepare a mixture as for Egg Croquettes and' 
spread it on strips of pancakes about 2 inches 
wide by 3 long, roll up, dip in frying batter and 
fry in hot lard. Serve on a napkin with Colbert 
sauce separate. 

Croquettes d'Oeitfs — Egg Croquettes., 

Same preparation as "Egg Cromesquis;" instead of 
wrapping them in pancakes give ' them a nice oval 
shape, and dip in beaten eggs ; roll in bread crumbs, 
fry in hot fat and serve on a napkin. 

Croquettes (TOeufs a I'ltaliemie — Egg Croquettes, Italian 
Style. 
Cut eight hard boiled eggs in small squares and 
mix into one pint of thickly reduced cream sauce, 
season to taste with salt, pepper and grated nut- 
meg, add a good handful of grated Parmesan 
cheese and then put away to get cold. When 
cold, shape some croquettes, tgg and bread crumb 
them and fry in hot lard. Serve on a napkin with 
Tomato sauce separate. 

Fricasse d'Oeiifs a I'Anglaise — English Egg Fricassee. 
'Same as Hard Eggs "a la Tripe," with the addition 
of sliced mushrooms. 

Fritot d'Oeufs a la Frangaise — Fritot of Eggs, French 
Fashion. 
Cold poached eggs coated with thick truffle sauce 
put on an oiled dish and set on ice ; when very cold, 
dip them in frying batter and fry in very hot fat; 
serve on a «apkin. 

Fondue a la Brillat Savarin. 

Fondue is a mixture of cheese, eggs and cream,- and 

prepared as follows: 

Put eight tgg yolks in a pan with a half pound of 



120 EggSj and How to Use Them. 

Miscellaneous Recipes— Continued 

butter broken into little pieces, 4 ounces each of 
grated Parmesan and Gruyere cheese; season with 
salt and cayenne pepper; put on the fire and whisk 
continuously until of good consistency, then add two 
tablespoonfuls of thick cream; serve with toasted 
bread separate. 

The same can be made with ordinary American 
cheese. 

Hmtres du Bengale — Bengal Oysters. 

Eggs broken into cleansed and buttered oyster shells, 
seasoned with pepper and salt, besprinkled with 
bread crumbs and butter, and cooked in the oven for 
a few minutes. 

Huitres de Bombay— Bombay Oysters. 

An egg v/ith only half of its white is broken into a 
goblet seasoned with salt, pepper and lemon juice, 
or if liked with Worcestershire or Tabasco sauce, 
and swallowed with one draught. These eggs are 
sometimes called Prairie oysters. 

Oeufs Deu.v Freres — "Two Brother" Eggs. 

Prepare some scrambled eggs with Parmesan 
cheese and serve in tartlet crusts. On top of each 
lay one poached tgg, pour over rich veal gravy 
and serve. 

Oeufs Files pour Garnitures — Spun Eggs for Garnishing. 
Urbian Dubois in his "Cuisine de Tons les Pays," 
gives this recipe for spun eggs as a garnishing for 
Spanish ham. 

Beat the tgg yolks of fifteen eggs and pass them 
through a sieve. Boil some light syrup in a copper 
pan, and pour the tgg yolks through a funnel into 
the boiling syrup. This funnel, especially made for 
this purpose, should have several small tubes attach- 
ed at the bottom, which have an opening, about the 
size of large vermicelli. 
When the eggs are cooked they are taken out of the 



Eggs, and Hozv to Use Them. 121 

Miscellaneous Recipes — Continued 

syrup, laid on a hair sieve to strain, and besprinkled 
with a little cold water that they may not stick to 
each other. 

Oetifs Files pour Potage — Spun Eggs for Soup. 

Eight egg yolks mixed with 4 ounces of grated Par- 
mesan cheese and one tablespoonful of flour ; put this 
preparation into a pastry bag affixed with a round 
tube of a small opening and press the contents into 
boiling salted water. 

Oeiifs a la Gmnbetta — Eggs, Gambetta Style. 

One poached egg and one fried egg, both on toast, 
are garnished with calf's brains and truffie sauce. 

Oeiifs a la N'igoise — Eggs, Nice Style. 

Whites of eggs whipped to a stiff froth and mixed 
with thick cream and grated Parmesan cheese, put 
on a buttered dish and arrange nicely with small 
cavities large enough to lay in the yolks of eggs 
from which the whites were separated and whipped; 
cook in an oven of moderate temperature. 

Oeiifs a la Tomery — Eggs, Tomery Style. 

Soak a piece of bread the size of an egg in one 
gill of boiling milk; after it has absorbed all the 
liquor stir it well with a spoon, until a pulpy mass ; 
add a little piece of butter, season with pepper, salt 
and grated nutmeg*, add four spoonfuls of white 
chicken meat cut very fine, two spoonfuls of thick 
cream and four whole eggs well beaten; put this 
preparation into cocotte dishes and cook in a slow 
oven from twelve to fourteen minutes ; before serv- 
ing pour over some rich gravy mixed with tomato 
sauce. 

Oeu-fs en Robe de Chambre — Eggs Cooked in Potatoes. 
Cut off one end of some raw potatoes, s,tand them 
upright and bake in the oven. When cooked, cut 
off the other end, scoop out the potato and pour 
in some cream or Italian sauce, breajc a raw egg 



122 EgS^j '^'^'^ How to Use Them. 

Miscellaneous Recipes — Continued 

medium oven. When done serve on a folded 
into each, place the covers on top and cook in a 
napkin. 

Oeitfs SouMes a la Parmesanne — Eggs SouMed, Parme- 
san Style. 
Put into a bowl 5 egg yolks, and two tablespoon- 
fuls of thick creain, 1 ounce of butter, 5 table- 
spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, salt and a 
pinch each of grated nutmeg and cayenne pepper ; 
blend all these ingredients thoroughly, then whip 
the 5 egg whites and mix into the yolks, etc. 
Fill up some small entree cases ^ of their height 
with ithe souffle prepai-ation, strew over some 
grated cheese and cook in a slow oven from 5 to 8 
minutes. Serve on a folded napkin. 

Pate d'Oeufs a I'Anglaise — English Egg and Bacon Pie. 
Lay some rashers of bacon on the bottom of a china 
pie dish ; pour over eight eggs beaten with a pint of 
cream and seasoned with salt and pepper, cover the 
dish with short crust or pufi'paste trimmings baked 
in a moderate oven; serve when cold. 

Rissoles d'Oeufs — Egg Rissoles. 

Roll out some puffpaste trimmings to the thickness 
of y% of an inch ; with the 'paste cutter stamp out 
some sound pieces of 2j4 inches in diameter, and in 
the centre lay a preparation of hard eggs as for 
"Egg Croquettes;" wet the border of the paste with 
a brush dipped in water or in beaten eggs, and double 
it over so as to form a half circle ; fry in hot fat and 
serve on a napkin. 

Royale Jaune pour Potage — Yellow Ciistard for Soups. 
Beat together four egg yolks and one whole egg, mix 
with one gill of cream, season with salt, cayenne 
pepper and grated nutmeg; fill up some small but- 
tered moulds, or one large mould, with the above 
preparation, and cook in the water bath as described 



Eggs, and Hoiv to Use Them. 123 

Miscellaneous Recipes — Continued 

under "Custard." When cooked and cold cut the 
custard in dice or fanciful shapes. 

Green Custard is made in the same manner, but col- 
ored with spinach green or green Breton coloring. 
Red Custard is colored by mixing a thick tomato 
puree with the eggs, but then a little less cream is 
used. 



124 Eggs, and How to Use Them. 



Egg Drinks. 



Egg Flip. 

Egg Flips can be prepared with different kinds of 
liquorSj to satisfy all tastes, we append several recipes : 

With Ale and Rum. — Heat one pint of ale ; when near- 
ly boiling put into a jug; while the ale is heating beat 
twelve whole eggs with two ounces of brown sugar and 
a wineglassful of rum, a little grated nutmeg and pow- 
dered ginger, and pour into another jug ; then add the ale, 
stirring all the time, and turn several times from jug to 
jug- 

With Beer.^-Four into a saucepan one gill of beer, 
three well beaten eggs, and two ounces of sugar; set on 
the fire, beat with an egg whisk until nearly boiling ; then 
add another gill of beer, a little nutrneg and ginger, and 
serve. 

With Milk and Brandy. — One teacupful of boiling 
ing milk mixed with the stiff froth of the white of an 
egg and a pony of brandy, stir well, and sweeten to taste. 

Egg Lemonade. 

Put the juice of one lemon, one ounce of sugar, the 
white of an egg and a small quantity of crushed ice into 
a tumbler, mix well with a shaker; add a little ice water, 
and drink with straws. The yolk of an egg may also be 
added if desired. 



Eggs, and How to Use Thepi. 125 

Egg Nog, Baltimore Style. 

Beat up the yolks of three eggs, and J4 of a nutmeg 
grated, with two ounces of powdered sugar, to the con- 
sistency of cream; add, pouring in quietly the while, yi 
gill of brandy or rum, and one glass of Marsala or brown 
sherry; add the whites of the eggs (beaten to a stiff 
froth), and, when well incorporated, gill of cream and 
pint of milk. This is not a warm drink and is easily di- 
gestible; it forms a nourishing dietetic beverage for de- 
bilitated persons. 

Egg Nog, Iced. 

Beat up the yolk of. one egg with a tablespoonful of 
water and the same of pounded white sugar; add one 
gill of sherry or half gill of brandy, ditto of rum, quarter 
pint of milk; mix together; add half gill of shaven ice. 

Egg Nog, Hot; or, "Auld Man's Milk." 

Heat a pint of Scotch. ale; add while warming, a pinch 
each of powdered cinnamon, grated nutmeg and pow- 
dered ginger; beat up the yolks of two eggs with a little 
brown sugar ; pour in the ale gradually ; when well amal- 
gamated add a glass of whiskey. 

Lait de Poule — Hen's Milk. 

The yolks of two eggs mixed with two ounces of pow- 
dered sugar and two tablespoonfuls of orange flower 
water ; beat up well and add half pint of boiling milk. 

Mulled Egg Wine. 

Beat up an egg with three glasses of sherry and a tea- 
spoonful of sugar; add some grated ginger, and careful- 
ly half pint of boiling water, stirring the while ; grate 
on a little nutmeg before serving. 



126 Eggs, and How to Use Them. 

Yolk of Egg Emulsion. 

Is made the same way, substituting the yolks of eggs 
for the whites; but being more sickly, it requires more 
flavoring. 

White of Egg Emulsion. 

Beat the whites of two fresh eggs with a few table- 
spoonfuls of milk or cream, half a teaspoonfiil of pow- 
dered gum-arabic and a small quantity of honey or sugar. 
This is very efficacious to swallow gently in sore throat. 



Eggs, and How to JJse Them, 127 



MuUed Wine, with Eggs. 

First, my dear madam, you must take 
Nine eggs, which carefully you'll break; 
Into a bowl you'll drop the white. 
The yolks into another by it. 
Let Betsy beat rhe whites with a switch. 
Till they appear quite froth*d and rich. 
Another hand the yolks must beat 
With sugar, which will make them sweet; 
Three or four spoonfuls maybe'Il do. 
Though some, perhaps, would take but two. 
Into a skillet next you'll pour 
A bottle of good wine, or more; 
Put half a pint of water, too. 
Or it may prove too strong for you: 
And while the eggs by two are beating, 
The wine and water may be heating; 
But, when it comes to boiling heat, 
The yolks and whites together beat. 
•With half a pint of water more — 
Mixing them well — then gently pour 
Into the skillet with the wine, 
And stir it briskly all the time. 
Then pour it off into a pitcher; 
Grate nutmeg in to make it richer; 
Then drink it hot, for he's a fool 
Who lets such a precious liquor cool. 



128 Eii^j i^^d How to Use Them. 



Books of Reference. 



The Deipnosophists Athenaeus 

Natural History Pliny 

Tabella Cibaria 

Healthj Improvements Dr. Muifet 

Popular Antiquities Brand 

The Pantropheon Soyer 

The Book About the Table Jeaffreson 

Antiquitates Culinarae Warner 

The Modern Cook de la Chapelle 

Two Fifteenth Century Cook Books 

The Accomplished Cook Mwy 

Art of Cookery Mrs. Glasse 

Culinary Chemistry Williams 

Animal Food Resources of the World. . . .Simmonds 

Chemistry of Common Life Johnston 

A Treatise on Food and Dietetics Pavy 

The Science of Nutrition Atkinson 

Historiographie de la Table Verdot 

Grand Dictionaire de Cuisine Dmnas 

La Cuisine d'Aujourdhui Dubois 

Meisterwerke der Speisen & Getraenke 

Bliiher & Petermann 

Le Cuisinier Imperial Viard 

Physiologie du Gout Brillat-Savarin 

Cooling Cups and Dainty Drinks Terrington 



