TX 715 

.H972 

Copy 1 :|^ 

IN BUY 

DOUBT or 

7'a 7 15 OSGOOD 



WV^ 



w 



THE c. i mm CO., 



New England's Largest Housefurnishers, 



744-756 WASHINGTON STREET, 



^osTon^. 



lyiEQATHLIN'S DRUG STORE as you know, 
^ ^Always carries quite a show 
Of Medicines to cure all ills, 
From powders fine to Quinine pills. 

The rarest sweets in town you'll find I 
Huyler's! Foss' and the famous twenty-nine. 
Soda I A wondrous drink indeed. 
That ten-cent chocolate with cream. 

Our spices did you ever try? 
Pure and fresh for cake and pie. 
Our llavorin«;s are the very best. 
Vanilla, Strawberrj^, and all the rest. 

Prescriptions tilled with greatest care, 
At prices that are right and square. 
There's nothing in the Druggist line 
But what at Megatiilin's you will find. 



MURPHY'S DINING ROOMS, 

MAIN ST., HYANNIS. 

FIRST-CLASS BOARD BY THE DAY OR WEEK 



Ice Cream, wholesale and retail. Catering for parties 
and socials a specialty. 

Oysters in their season. Pure Candies, Soda, Cigars 
and Tobacco. 

W. T. MURPHY, Prop. 



THE lYANOUGH COOK BOOK 



SECOND EDITION, ENLARGED AND IMPROVED. 
IMBLISIIED RV THE I.A1>IES OF THE 



Hyannis Public Library Association. 



Price 25 Cents. 



Copyright 7899 hy F. B. <f- F. P. Gosft. 



HYANNIS, MASS.: 

T. B. A P. P. n088, PUBLISHERS. 

1899. 



Off 

PREFACE. 4 

51013 

The sale of the entire edition {i\vo hundred copies) of the Iyan- 
OUGH Cook Book and the call for more, prove it a wage- earner 
for the library, and is the excuse for publishino; a second, and 
enlarged edition. 

To those who have responded to the call for recipes, the Asso- 
ciation wishes to express its appreciation ; also to the advertisers, 
whose patronage has largely defrayed the expenses of printing, etc. 



ScCOND COPY, 



MENU. 



It is the bounty of nature that we live! but of philosophy that wc live well. 

— Stneca. 

Soups and Chowders. 

Bkown Soup Stock. — 6 pounds hind shin of beef, 6 quarts cold 
water, 10 whole cloves, 10 pepper corns, 1 large tablespoonful 
salt, 3 small onions, 1 carrot, 2 stalks celery or 1-4 teaspoonful 
celery seed, 1 turnip, 2 sprigs of parsley. Wipe and cut the meat 
into pieces. Put the marrow bones and half the meat into the 
cold water in the kettle. Soak half an hour. Before heating, add 
spices and herbs, 2 teaspoonfuls mixed. Brown the onions and 
the remainder of the meat and add to the stock, then add the veg- 
etables, cut fine. Simmer six or seven hours and strain. After 
taking off the fat, the next day clear with whites and shells of 
3 eggs put in when cold. When it comes to a boil, let it cool 
for three minutes, then strain through a cloth. --[Mrs. E. F. Smith. 

Soup from Beek Extract. — 1 teaspoonful of beef extract, 
1 quart of boiling water, a small onion, 2 sticks of celery, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, a shake of pepper. Let all cook three- 
quarters of an hour and then strain. — [Mrs. E. F. Smith. 

Beef Soup. — 4 pounds beef, little more than cover with water, 
3 onions, 1 teacup of rice, salt and pepper to taste. 

— [Mrs. Ernest Harlow. 

Prescriptions filled at Guyer's, Hyannis. 



6 

Sherry Bouillon. — 4 pounds of juicy beef, 1 knuckle of veal, 
2 small turnips, 2 carrots, 1 soup bunch, 1 small red pepper, 2 
small white onions, salt, six quarts of water. Boil six hours and 
strain through a sieve. Let it stand over night, skim off the 
grease, put in a kettle to heat, and add sherry to taste. 

— [Mrs. Sara T. Hammond. 

Lamh Soup. — 2 pounds lamb, 2 quarts water, 4 medium 
spoonfuls of salt, little pepper. Cook one hour. Add 3-4 cup 
rice; add potatoes and turnips; add macaroni. 

— [Mrs. Ernest Harlow. 

Mock Turtle Soup. — Take half a calf's head, remove the 
brain and skin, wash thoroughly, soak over night in salted water, 
boil until tender in two quarts of beef stock and two quarts of 
water, skim carefully. Take up the head, remove the bones, chop 
line, set in a cool place; add to the liquor 1 onion, 1 carrot, 1 
small turnip, 1 cup of chopped cabbage, a sprig of parsley, a 
few stalks of celerj', a little mace, the grated rind of a lemon, a 
small bunch of sweet herbs, salt and pepper. Let simmer one 
hour, strain through cheese cloth, reheat, add a few fine bread 
crumbs, thinly sliced lemons, tablespoonful Worcestershire sauce, 
and a gill of port wine. The more it is warmed over the better it 
is. — [Mrs. F. I. Storer. 

Cream of Celery Soup. — 1 head of celery, cut tine, and 1 
onion. Boil till soft. Put through a colander, add 1 (piart boil- 
ing milk, 1 tablespoonful cornstarch,! tablespoonful butter, salt and 
pepper to taste. Boil a few minutes. Put 1-2 cup whipped cream 
in tureen and pour the soup over it. — [Mrs. C. E. Harris. 

Celery Soup. — Delicious soup is made in this way : Boil a 
small cup of rice in a little over a quart of milk. Boil until it is 
so soft that it will pass through a sieve with but little effort on 

For Drugs, visit Guyer's, Hyannis. 



your part. Grate the nicely bleached parts of "2 heads of celery, 
and add to the strained rice ; add to this 1 (luurt of stronj^ beef 
stock, or that made from mutton or veal may be used ; it should 
be strained, and be clear and free from lumps when it is put in 
with the rice. Let this boil until the celery is tender. Season 
with a dash of cayenne pepper, or a little curry powder, and plenty 
of salt. If it is dilllcult to obtain celery when 3'ou wish to have 
this soup, celery salt may be used, or even celery seed or extract. 

— [Mrs. W. A. Baldwin. 

Cauliflower Sour. — Take the water in which a caulitlower has 
been boiled, add half as mucli milk and butter size of an egg, 
pepper and salt to taste, and thicken slightly. Serve very hot. 

— [M. P. C. 

Mock Bis^>ue Soup. — Place over Ih-e 1 can of tomatoes. Stew 
until soft, then strain, and add 1-2 saltspoonful soda, returning 
to fire. Have ready 1 quart hot milk ; to this add 1 tablespoonful 
cornstarch, dissolved in 1-3 of a cup of melted butter. Cook for 
ten minutes. Stir frequently. Add tomatoes, and season with 
salt and pepper. Serve very hot. — [Mrs. E. L. Chase. 

Tomato Soup. — 2 quarts milk, juice from 1 can tomatoes. Let 
milk come to a boil, put in tomato juice, and at same time a pinch 
of soda. Set back, put in a piece of butter, salt and pepi)er to 
taste. Avoid boiling. — [Mrs. Edwin Baxter, Jr. 

Potato Soup. — Take cold meat and boil about one hour, then 
put in about a dozen potatoes, an onion, and half a bunch of celery 
if obtainable. Boil until the potatoes are cooked, then strain, put 
in parsley, chopped fine, and serve. This makes a cheap and 
healthy soup. — [Mrs. E. A. Baxter. 

Potato Soup. — 1 quart milk, 6 potatoes, 2 onions, 1-2 pint 
water, 1 tablespoonful parsley, 1-2 saltspoonful white pepper, or 1-4 

Flavoring Extracts at G oyer's Dnnj Store, Hyannis. 



8 

teaspoonful black, 1 teaspoonful salt, 3 teaspoonfuls butter, 1 
teaspoonful celei^ salt. Boil G large potatoes (peeled) with 2 onions. 
Have the milk and water hot, and put in it the potatoes and onions, 
mashed. A potato ricer is the better thing to use instead of a 
masher. Stir constantly so the soup will be smooth. When 
thickened a little, beat 1 egg very ligiit, and put into the tureen ; 
turn soup over it. — [Mrs. William Lovell, Jr. 

Green Corn Soup. — 6 ears of sweet corn, water to cover the ears, 
1 pint milk or cream, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful each of sugar, 
Hour and butter, 1-2 saltspoonful white pepper. Remove the i)ulp, 
leaving hull on the cob, cover with cold water and boil thirty 
minutes ; after straining there should be a pint of water. To this 
add the pulp and boil fifteen minutes, then add salt, pepper, sugar 
and the boiling milk. Thicken with 1 teaspoonful flour and 1 
tablespoonful butter, cooked together. Boil five minutes, and 
serve at once. — [Mrs. Henrietta E. Chase. 

Green Pea Sour. — 2 quarts green peas, 1-4 pound butter, 2 
small onions, a little parsley. Cook until tender in enough water 
to cover, add 2 quarts of stock, pepper and salt to taste, 1 large 
spoonful sugar. Let this boil once and strain through hair sieve, 
then add 1 pint of boiling milk and cook five minutes. 

— [Mrs. C. A. B. 

Si'LiT Pea Soui'. — 1 1-2 pounds peas; put to soak over night 
in 4 quarts of cold water. In the morning add a ham bone or a 
few salt pork ribs, an onion, 3 cloves, salt and pepper to taste. 
Cook until soft, strain through coarse sieve, and serve hot. 

—[Mrs. F. I. Storer. 

Bean Soi p. — 1 pint black beans, 2 quarts of cold water. Boil 
five hours. Add a ham bone or a few salt pork ribs, 1 onion, 
pepper, salt, 3 cloves, a pinch of mustard. Be sure there are two 

Kodaks and Kodak Supplies at Guyer's Drug Store. 



quarts wlieu done. When ready to serve, i)OMr over tlie croutons, 
sprinkle on top tlie pulverized yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs and a 
little lemon juice. — [Mrs. F. I. Storer. 

Loi5>:ter Sorr avith IMii.k. — INIeat of a small lobster chopi)ed 
fine, 3 crackers rolled fine, butter size of an egg. salt and pepper 
to taste, and a speck of cayenne. Mix all in the same pan and 
add gradually a pint of boiling milk, stiiring all the time. Boil 
up once and serve. — [Miss Barry. 

Cl.v:m Socr. — 25 small clams, 1 cpiai't of milk, half cu[) of but- 
ter, 3 potatoes, 2 large tablespoonfuls of Hour, salt, pepper. The 
clams should be chopi)ed fine and put in a colander to drain. Fare 
the potatoes and chop rather fine. Put them on to boil witli the 
milk, in a double kettle. Rub the butter and flour together until 
perfectly creamy, and when the milk and potatoes have been boil- 
ing fifteen minutes, stir this in and cook eight minutes more. Add 
pepper and salt, and cook three minutes longer. Now add the 
clams. Cook one minute longer. — [Mrs. F. W. Kingman. 

Clam Bisque. — I quart milk, 1 pint clams and the water of the 
clams, 1 good-sized onion, sliced. Put these on in a double boil- 
er, let stand 3-4 of an hour, stirring occasionally, then stir in for 
thickening 1 tablespoonful flour and 1-2 tablespoonful cornstarch 
in 1-2 cup cold milk. After ten or fifteen minutes, it is ready for 
serving. Pour into a dish in which are 2 well-beaten eggs, a piece 
of butter, salt and pepper to taste. — [Mrs. William H. Pierce. 

Croutons for Soup. — Cut stale bread in little scpiares and fry 
in drippings a golden brown. Put in soup tureen and pour hot 
soup over. — [Mrs. F. I. Storer. 

Puree of Clams. — 1 pint boiled clams. Chop hard i)arts fine. 
Cook 1 tablespoonful flour in 1 heaping tablespoonful hot butter, 

The latest in Stationery always at Guyer's. 



10 

and add a little at a time 1 pint hot milk. Then add chopped 
clams, soft parts, salt and pepper. If the puree is too thick, add 
more milk or a little clam liquor. Remove from fire as soon as 
hot.— [Mrs. G. E. Till son. 

H. Y. C. Clam Chowdeu. — 1 potato for each person, 1-2 as 
many onions, medium size, 1-2 pound pork, I quart milk, 1 quart 
clams to 12 potatoes. Fry the pork, then add the onions, sliced, 
and fry, then sliced potatoes and small quantity of salt and pep- 
per, cover with hot water, and boil until potatoes are nearly done. 
Separate the clams and chop the rims fine, add to the vegetables, 
and bring to a boil, then add clam water and milk and scald. 
Season to taste. 

Clam Chowder. — Separate 1 quart of clams, chop heads and 
straps, clean stomachs, and proceed as for fish chowder, using 
half clam juice and half water to boil the chowder, adding the 
milk when ready to serve, and seasoning after the milk is added. 

Fisii Chowder. — Cut some nice, fat salt pork into slices, fry a 
delicate brown, now put with the drippings into a kettle, adding 
in alternate layers sliced onions, potatoes, and nicely dressed fish, 
cut in square pieces, salt and pepper ; cover with the water in 
which the bones and skin, also head of the fish have been previ- 
ously boiled and strained out, to strengthen the chowder. Boil un- 
til vegetables are tender, then add boiling milk, and let it boil up 
once, and serve. If pork is not liked, add butter to season, when 
the milk is added. 

Salt Fish Chowder. — Fry out 3 slices salt pork ; fry 1 
large onion in the fat; put in 1 quart sliced potatoes, cover with 
boiling water and cook. When done add 1 pint picked fish, 
freshened, and 1 quart hot milk ; thicken with tablesixwnful corn- 
starch. — [L. T. C. 

Family Medicines at Ginjer's Drug Store. 



niPTQ i'f\r WEDDINGS. 

vJlrl^ lUr CHRISTMAS, 

ANNIVERSARIES. 



TABLE FURNISHINGS 



IN 



CUT GLASS AND SILVER. 



CHAPING DISHE5, TEA KETTLES. 



MODERATE PRICES. 



A.STOWELLcS^Co., 

24 Winter Street, 

BOSTON, HASS. 




Copyright, Boston, 1898, REVERE by Cybus Cobb, Sculptok. 
"The Midnight Ride of Paul Revere," Alto Relievo Panel, in old ivory or bronze 
Actual size, 22 x 30 inches. 



S P TJ R R 'S 
Mocha i^EVERE COFFEE. J^^« 

Triule-niarks redeeiiKihle for T^il'e of P;uil Revere, 2 vols, and the 
Paul Revere Panel. 

BEST COFFEE IN THE WORLD. 

Tested and endorsed by American Jonrnal of Health. Send for 
Paul Revere Letter, No. 8, eontalnluj? 100 niessaj>'es from consumers to 
consumers re^ardinij; the satisfyiui:; quality of Revere ("oft'ee. 

HOWARD W. 8PURR COFFEE CO., 

BOSTON, IvI^SS. 



13 

Salt Fish Chowder. — Pick up small pieces of fish, soak in 
cold water until soft, pour off this water, add suflicient cold water 
to cover fish, put in half pint of tomatoes, let this come to a scald, 
then add to this 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and butter, evenly mixed 
with milk. After this comes to a boil, add 1 quart of hot milk. 
Put in tureen piece of butter liefore sending to table. 

—[Mrs. W. J. Wyer. 

QuAiiAUG Stew. — 1 quart quahaugs chopped very fine ; boil 20 
minutes, then add 3 pints of milk, thicken with butter size of an 
egg, 1 teaspoonful flour, 1-2 dozen oyster crackers rolled fine, 
mixed together. Do not let it boil after milk is added, or it will 
curdle. Serve with oyster crackers. — [Mrs. fluliiis Ilowlaud. 

Fish Stew. — Cook 2 1-2 or 3 pounds of fresh cod or bass in 
sufficient boiling water to cover it, until nearly done. Add pep- 
per, salt, butter, aud a little thickening, also 1 quart of hot milk. 
Boil up once. Serve with oysters like oyster stew. — [L. T. C. 

Clam Stew. — Separate 1 quart clams, chop heads and should- 
ers, boil 2 hours. Clean stomachs and add. Have 1 quart of rich 
milk scalding hot, add to the clams, which have been boiled in 1 
pint each of clam juice and water. Season with salt, pepper, and 
butter. — [Mrs. F. I. Storer. 

Corn Chowder. — 6 ears of corn cut from the cob, 6 small 
potatoes cut in slices, 1 onion. Fry 3 slices of pork, then add the 
vegetables in alternate layers until all are used. Cover with boil- 
ing water, cook twenty minutes, stirring occasionally. Add 1 
pint of milk, and let boil up once ; salt and pepper to taste. 

—[Mrs. C. E. Harris. 

Fish Chowder. — 5 pounds of codfish or haddock, 1-2 pound 
pork, 2 large onions, 1 quart of sliced potatoes, 1 quart of milk, 1 

Guyer's Digest cures indigestion ; 50 cents a bottle. 



14 

pint of water, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, salt and pepper. Skin 
fish and cut all the flesh from the bones. Put bones in to cook in 
water ; simmer gently ten minutes. Fry pork, cut in dice, then 
add onions, cut in slices. Cover and cook five minutes. Then 
add flour, cooking 8 minutes longer, stirring often. Strain on this 
the water in which the fish bones were cooked, and boil gently five 
minutes, then strain all on potatoes and fish. Season with salt 
and pepper, and simmer fifteen minutes. Add milk, and 6 Bos- 
ton crackers, which have been split and soaked for three minutes 
in the milk. Let it boil up once, and serve. — [Miss Barry. 

Gnyer, the Druggist, Hyanyiis. 



15 



Fish. 

"The silvery fish, 
Grazing at hirge in meadows submarine, 
Fresh (Vom the wave, now elicer our festive board." 

To Boil Fish. — The fish should be thoroughly cleaned, put in 
boiling, salted water, and kept boiling until done ; if it stops be- 
fore it is done the skin will break. In the absence of a fish kettle, 
it is best to boil the fish in a net ; a new piece of mosquito netting, 
well washed, will do ; it will greatly assist in its removal from the 
kettle and can be drained while in the net. If it be a kind of fish 
without decided flavor, it will be improved by adding to the water 
a small piece of onion, a bit of spice, or a dash of lemon juice. 
Serve with it drawn butter, with 1 or 2 hard-boiled eggs chopped 
fine and added the last thing. 

Boiled Fish. — Any fresh fish weighing between 4 to 6 pounds 
should be first washed in cold water, then put into boiling water, 
enough to cover it, and containing 1 tablespoonful of salt, simmer 
gently thirty minutes, then take up. A fish kettle is a great con- 
venience, and when you do not have one, keep a strong white cot- 
ton cloth in which pin the fish before putting into the boiling 
water; this will hold in shape. Hard boiling will break the fish, 
and of course there will be a great waste, and the fish will not look 
appetizing. There should be a gentle bubbling of the water, and 
nothing more all the time the fish is in it. A fish weighing 
more than 6 pounds should cook ten minutes longer for every ad- 
ditional 2 pounds. Boiled fish can be served with a great variet}'^ 
of sauces, which change the whole character of the fish. 

— [Miss Barry. 

Sauce for Boiled Fish. — 1 pint of milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
Bicycles and Sundries, Oiiyer Cycle Co., Hyannis. 



16 

flour, 2 of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 2 hard boiled eggs ; 
mix the butter and flour together until smooth. When the milk 
boils stir 2 tablespoonfuls of it into the butter and flour, when well 
mixed stir into boiling milk slowly, then cook eight minutes, 
strain, then add the hard boiled eggs, which must be chopped very 
fine. Serve always with boiled fish. 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped 
parsley is a pleasant change from the hard boiled eggs. 

— [Miss Barry. 

Bkoiled Fresh Mackerel. — Remove head and dark skin from 
inside, wash, and wipe dry. Butter bars of broiler and broil fish 
over bright fire, taking care not to burn. When done through, 
dip gridiron with fish on quickly into boiling water, remove fish to 
hot platter, and serve with a dressing made of 4 tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice, a bit of chopped pars- 
ley, and a little pepper. Serve very hot, with either nice mealy 
baked or mashed potatoes. — [Mrs. F. I. Storer. 

Baked Fish. — Clean the fish thoroughly, wipe dry, salt inside. 
Stuff with any kind of dressing preferred and confine l)y passing 
coarse thread around it to hold it firmly. When ready lay it upon 
a buttered paper iu baking pan, sprinkle with pepper and salt, 
then lay slices of sweet salt pork on top to season it. A good, 
steady heat should be kept up aud the fish basted often until near- 
ly done, then stop to allow the outside to become crisp and a deli- 
cate brown. If basted often the fish will be moist and delicious 
and done clear through. 

Baked Fish. — Clean and wipe fish, rub with salt, stufl' and sew 
up. Cut gashes in sides of fish and put narrow strips of pork in 
each gash. Rub with butter, salt, and pepper. Dredge with flour. 
Bake in a hot oven one hour. StuflUng for fish : 1 cup cracker 
crumbs, 1-4 cup melted butter, 1 saltspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful 

Giiyer C>jcle Co., Ihjannis, Motor Carriages. 



17 

chopped onion, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful 
chopped capers, 1 teaspoonful chopped pickles. Mix well. 

—[Mrs. Lydia F. Crowell. 

Baked Fish. — A fish weighing about 5 pounds, 3 large or 5 
small crackers, 1-4 of a pound of salt pork, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
salt, 1-4 of a teaspoonful pepper, 1-2 of a tablespoonf ul of chopped 
parsley, 2 tablespoonfuls of fiour. Roll the crackers very fine, 
and add to them the parsley, 1 tablespoonf ul of chopped pork, 1-2 
tlie pepper, 1-2 a tablespoouful of salt, and cold milk to moisten 
well. Put this into the body of the fish, and fasten with skewers. 
Cut gashes across fish about 1-2 inch deep, and 2 inches long, cut 
rest of pork in strips, and put these in the gashes. Put the fish 
into baking pan and dredge well with salt, pepper and fiour, cover 
bottom of pan with water and put into a rather hot oven ; bake 
one hour, basting often with gravy in pan, dredging each time with 
fiour, salt and pepper. The water in the pan must be often re- 
newed, as the bottom is only covered each time. Baste fish every 
fifteen minutes. When fish is cooked, lift carefully from })an, 
placing in centre of dish on which it is to be served. Make a 
brown grav}', garnish fish with slices of lemon and sprigs of pars- 
ley. — [Miss Barry. 

Baked Halihut Steaks. — Trim the steaks, lay them in a roast- 
ing pan, and for 2 pounds use 1 cup cream, (or milk if neces- 
sary) 1 teaspoonful of flour, 1 tablespoouful of butter, 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper. Dredge the steaks 
with the flour, add the seasoning and dot with the butter. Pour 
over the cream and bake fifteen miuutes in quick oven. — [P. C. P. 

Baked Sea Trout. — Split fish, removing back-bone, lay the 
fish, skin on bottom of pan that is well buttered, cover with thin 
slices of salt pork and sliced onions, pepper and salt. Bake ac- 

Acetylene Lujhting by the Guyer Cycle Co. 

—2— 



18 

cording to size of fish. Just before taken from oven pour over 
the fish 1-2 cup of milk.— [Mrs. W. J. Wyer. 

Mackerel Baked in Milk. — Put a split mackerel in pan, sea- 
son with pepper and salt, and nearly cover with milk. Bake three- 
quarters of an hour in a quick oven, or until done. After remov- 
ing the fish, add a little water to the milk, and thicken for gravy. 
If a richer gravy is desired, add a scant half-teaspoonful of Wor- 
cestershire sauce and 1 teaspoonful tomato ketchup. — [M. P. C. 

German Stuffed Fish. — 1 small bluefish, 1 sea trout and 1 
perch, cut into pieces of three or four inches each; take a small 
quantity of fish out of each end of the slice, put the pieces in a 
chopping dish, than add 2 of bread, 1 egg, pepper and salt to 
taste, 1 small onion, then chop very fine and fill the cavities you 
have made in the slices of fish. Put fish in a porcelain kettle, 
season with a little salt, slice half an onion over the fish, cover 
with water ; let it cook very slowly for one hour, and do not stir 
the fish, as it will break it ; shake the kettle to keep it from burn- 
ing on. — [Mrs. L. Arenovski. 

Finnan Haddie. — Cut the fish in several pieces, put into astew- 
pau, cover with half sweet milk and half cold water, set on stove 
where it will not burn, let simmer until tender, then flake the fish, 
removing skin and bones, dress with dots of butter, pepper, and 
a very little of the milk in which it was boiled, set in oven 
long enough to melt the butter, and serve. 

A Delicious SurrER Dish. — Have half a dozen white perch nicely 
cleaned, but left whole; any small sized firm fish will do. Slice 
a medium size carrot, a small onion, and cover with water, boil 
until tender, add the fish, with salt, and a teaspoonful of sugar; 
simmer until well done, but not broken ; carefully remove the fisii 
onto a deep platter, then with the beaten yolks of 4 eggs, thicken 

Summer Houses Lighted ivith Acetylene, Gayer Cycle Co. 



IF MONEY SAVING IS AN OBJECT 



This Recipe holds good. Do not keep your old 
Range after it is worn out. 

BHY n NEW eiiENweeD 



and be happy. Also buy of us 

Crockery, Glassware, Tinware, Furnishings, 
Aluminum Ware, 

(every piece warranted for three years.) 



We have one of the largest lines of Goods to be 
found on the Cape. Everything will come out right if 
you buy your goods of 

LEWIS BLOCK, 

HYANNIS, MASS. 



THE MOST POPULAR, 

THE MOST SATISFACTORY, 

THE MOST RELIABLE. 

''NORTn STAR" BRAND 

PURE LEAF LARD, 

HAMS, BACON, 

AND SAUSAGES. 

NORTH PACKING & PROVISION CO., 

33 & 34 North Market Street, 
BOSTON, MASS. 



SANDY POND ICE. 



Sandy Pond is noted for its Pure Spring Water, 
making the Ice especially desirable for family use. Sup- 
plied regularly and promptly at wholesale and retail at 
all seasons of the year. 

HYANNIS, MASS. 



21 

the broth, heating but not boiling, lest it curdles, pour over the 
fish and serve hot or cold. 

Fkied Fish. — Fry pork enough so fish can float. Wash fish 
and dry with cloth, then roll in meal mixed witli salt and pepper, 
and fry to a brown in boiling fat. Serve hot. — [O. H. C. 

Dropped Fish Balls. — 1 pint bowlful of raw fish, 2 heaping 
bowlfuls of pared potatoes, (let them be under medium size), 
2 eggs, butter the size of an egg and a little pepper. Put the pota- 
toes into the boiler, and place the fish, which has been picked very 
fine and measured lightly in the bowl, on top of the potatoes, cover 
with boiling water and boil 1-2 hour. Drain ot¥ all the water and 
mash fish and potatoes together until fine and light, then add the 
butter and pepper, and egg, well beaten. Have a deep kettle of 
boiling fat, dip a tablespoon in it, and then take up a good 
spoonful of the mixture, keeping it in as good shape as possible ; 
drop into the boiling fat and cook until brown, which should be in 
a few minutes. Do not crowd the balls, and be sure the fat is hot 
enough. Tlie spoon should be dipped in the fat every time you 
take a spoonful of the mixture. — [Miss Barry. 

Fish Balls. — Flake very fine 1 cup of boiled salt fish or any 
kind of tender fish that has been boiled will do. Have ready 2 
cups of mashed potatoes, mix the fish and potatoes thoroughly, 
then add 1 well beaten egg, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, a bit of 
butter and dash of pepper, beat all well, roll in small balls, dip in 
beaten egg, dust with crumbs, fry a golden brown in hot pork fat ; 
have the fat boiling and three minutes will cook them. 

Sadce for Fish Balls. — 2 teaspoonfuls dry mustard, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, 1 teaspoonf ul sugar, 1 teaspoonful flour, 1 teaspoon- 
ful soft butter, 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. Mix in order given in a 

liepainng in all its branches, Guyer Cycle Co. 



22 

sauce pan, add 1-2 cup boiling water; stir over the fire till it is 
smooth. — [Mrs. George F. Crocker. 

EscALLOPED Salmon. — 1 can salmon, remove bones, spread 
between layers of cracker crumbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, but- 
ter, as for escalloped oysters. Layer of cracker crumbs on top, 
moisten whole with milk, bake in hot oven about half hour. 

— [Mabel L. Baker. 

Salmon on Toast. — Heat a cupful of cream, (or milk thicken- 
ed with flour, and butter added), to which has been added a dessert- 
spoonful of butter, and pinch of salt ; stir into can of salmon and 
pour over rounds of buttered toast. — [Miss Esther L. Baxter. 

Salmon Croquetpes. — 1 can of salmon, half as much fine bread 
crumbs, the juice of 1 lemon, a little salt and pepper, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of cream ; mix all together, form into croquettes, roll in egg 
and cracker crumbs and fry. — [Mrs. Ruth Bennett. 

Salmon CkO(^uettes. — Stir 1 tablespoonful butter and 1 of flour 
together until smooth, over the fire ; add 2-3 cup of hot milk, (water 
will do), boil up once, add 1-2 teaspoonful salt, 1-4 as much 
pepper ; remove, stir in the yolks of 2 eggs ; cool, then stir in 1 
cup chopped salmon. Make into small rolls or cones, roll in sift- 
ed cracker crumbs, then in beaten egg, again in crumbs, and fry 
brown in deep, boiling fat. — [Mrs. Parker. 

Codfish Toast. — Flake and wash 2 teacupfuls salt codfish ; 
place in a saucepan with 2 tablespoonf nls flour and same of butter, 
mix thoroughly, and add gradually 2 cupfuls boiling water. Have 
ready several slices of hot buttered toast, pour the fish over, and 
serve. — [Mrs. Lot Crocker. 

Motor Bicycles Repaired, Guyer Cycle Co., Hyannis. 



23 

Eels. — Take the small round eels, cut in finger lengths, score 
them, season with salt and pepper, drop in boiling pork fat, fry 
until done through and a crisp brown. 

Fried Frogs. — Wash and boil ten minutes in salted water, 
drain, when cool dip in crumbs, then egg, and again in crumbs, 
fry a delicate brown in hot bitter; b3 sure thay aro (piite done; 
serve hot, garnished with parsley and slices of lemon. 

—[Mrs. F. I. Storer. 

Reme7nher the name, Guyer Cycle Co., Ilyannis. 



24 



Shellfish. 

Oyster Stkw. — I quart oysters, 1 quart water, 1 quart milk, 
good sized piece butter, salt and pepper. Put the oysters in a 
stewpan with a little flour sprinkled over them, add butter, salt, 
and pepper. Put in quart of boiling water, let it come to a boil, 
then add milk and let it boil up and it is ready for the table. 

— [Mrs. Osborn Crowell. 

EscALi.oPED Oysters. — To a 3-pint dish take a quart of oysters 
and 1 pound of crackers. Roll the crackers fine, a layer of crack- 
ers, a layer of oysters, pepper, salt and butter, until the dish is 
nearly full, then soften with milk. Let it stand an hour and bake 
in a hot oven about an hour. — [Mrs. Osborn Crowell. 

Broiled Oysters. — Drain the required number of large oysters 
on a napkin. Rub the wires of broUer with melted butter, arrange 
the oysters on the broiler, and broil over a quick fire until the 
edges curl, turning often to keep the juice from escaping. Lay 
the oysters on crisp, well-buttered toast, dressing with salt, [)ep- 
per, and melted butter. Serve at once. — [Mrs. F. I. Storer. 

Oyster Pie. — 1 (luart oysters, season the oysters with mace, 
1-2 glass of white wine, 1-2 cup of very fine cracker crumbs, a 
few pieces of butter. Put thein into a pie dish lined with paste, 
and add 1-2 the liquor, fill dish (luite full, and cover with a rich 
paste. Bake till the crust is nicely done. 

— [Mrs. Sara T. Hammond. 

Creamed Oysters. — Drain, wash, then boil 1 (juart oysters; 
drain again, this time saving the liciuor drawn out by the heat. 
Measure the licpior, adding enough milk to make a pint. Have 
hot, ready to add to a mixture of 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, and 



25 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour — as for drawn butter — making a thick 
cream. To this add the oysters, seasoning witli butter and pepper. 

— [Mrs. John Frost. 

QuAiiAiG Pie. — Make a crust as for meat pie and line a deep 
pie plate. Remove 1 pint quahaugs from their water and chop 
tine. Place tliem in a plate and sprinkle over them finely rolled 
cracker crumbs, pepper and butter to taste. Over all put a crust. 

— [Mrs. Franklin Crocker. 

Creamed Lobster. — 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 tablespoonful 
flour, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful mustard, 1 cup cream, a 
2 1-2 pound lobster cut in small pieces. Heat the butter, add the 
flour, salt and mustard, stir till smooth ; add cream gradually till 
smooth and thick ; add the lobster. Serve hot. 

—[Mrs. C. E. Harris. 

Creamed or Clrried Lobster. — 2 cupfuls of chopped, boiled 
lobster meat, 2 cupfuls of cream or milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 2 
tablespoonfuls of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Melt the butter 
without browning, add the flour, stir until smooth, add cream or 
milk, and stir until it thickens. Take from the fire, add lobster 
meat, and season. Turn into the farina boiler and serve when 
hot. For curried lobster, add one teaspoonful curry powder to 
sauce given above. — [Mrs. Lot Crocker. 

Fried ScAixors. — Wash well, dip in cracker crumbs, then in 
beaten egg, again in crumbs, fry in hot butter, or butter and sweet 
lard mixed, season with salt and pepper. Cook well a delicate 
brown, garnish with cress or parsley. 

EscALLOPED Clams. — Separate 1 quart of clams, choj) heads 
and shoulders, clean the stomachs, use alternate layers of clams 
and cracker crumbs, bits of butter, salt and pepper, moistening 
all with equal parts of clam juice and milk, having the top layer 
of crumbs. Bake in moderate oven about an hour. 

— [Mrs. F. I. Storer. 



26 



Meats. 

"In selecting beef choose that of a fine, smooth grain, of a bright 
red color and white fat. The sixth, seventh and eighth ribs are the 
choicest cuts for a roast. Have the bones removed and the meat 
rolled, but have the butcher send the bones for soup. The flesh 
of good veal is firm and dry, and the joints stiff. The flesh of 
good mutton or lamb is bright red, with the fat firm and white. 
If the meat of pork is j^oung, the lean will break on being pinched ; 
the fat will be white, soft and pulp^'." 

Roast Turkey. — Singe (if needful) and remove pin-feathers. 
Wash thoroughly inside and out, and rinse with cold water. Turn 
the skin back from the neck and cut neck off quite short, replace 
the skin and tie with soft white twine or cotton yarn. Fill the 
breast and body with dressing and sew up with the yarn. Fasten 
the wings behind the back with a long skewer, or tie with yarn. 
Also tie the legs together at the joints where the feet were cut off. 
Sprinkle with salt and rub butter all over the turkey, then dredge 
thickly with flour. Cover the bottom of pan with flour, place tur- 
key in and set in the oven until the flour is browned, then pour in 
water enough to rather more than cover the bottom of pan. Baste 
about every twenty minutes, adding hot water and dredging with 
salt, pepper and flour at each basting. Slices of raw salt pork 
may be laid on turkey instead of rubbing with butter, if preferred. 
If cooked in a patent baker of course the basting is unnecessary. 
For the dressing, boil (all together) and chpp, the liver, heart, 
gizzard, 3 medium sized potatoes and 1 onion. Add 6 rolled 
crackers, butter size of an egg, 1-2 to 3-4 pound of raw salt pork, 
chopped very flue, powdered sage, savory, salt and pepper to 
taste. — Mrs. N. A. Bradford. 

Chicken Stew. — Clean and cut up the chicken, and cut up 



KEVENEY & BEARSE, 

Main Street, 

DEALERS IN ^PROVISIONS. 



Constantly on hand Beef, Pork, Mutton, Lanil), Poultry, Tripe, Ilani, 
Sausage, Pigs Feet, Liver, Butter, Tjard autl Eggs. 
Also Vegetables of all kinds in their season at lowest cash prices. 



U. A. HULL, 

Mi^WOOD AND C0AL3»4 



Grain and Hay Dealer, 



SOUTH AND OCEAN STREETS, 



Hyannis, =:= =:= Mass. 



Wholesale and Retail Dealer in 

Beef, Pork, Mutton, Poultry, 

^ HAM, VEAL, LAMB, ETC., ^ 
HYANNIS. 



Orders by Mail or Telephone Promptly Filled. 



^^ ISEIOI 



Recipe foi- making the home pleasant and comfortable : Have . j'our 
furniture re-upholstered in new material in late and handsome de- 
sij^ns; have your carpets taken up, cleaned and relaid, by a mod- 
ern and the best method. IMattresses will wear much 
longer by being occasionally renovated. 

4^L. J. CANNON, ^-f- 

HYANNIS, MASS., 

Upholstering, Cabinet Worl( & General Repairing 



Carpets Taken Up. Cleaned by Machinery, and Relaid. Mattresses 
Renovated, Curtain Hanging, Picture Framing, Etc. 



29 

small bits of pork with it. Put in water to nearly cover it. Cook 
until about done, allowing twenty minutes for dumplings. Thicken 
gravy a little if needed. Serve vegetables cooked separate. 

—[Mrs. C. C. Crocker. 

Fricasseed Chicken. — Take a chicken of about 4 pounds, fry 
out 2 slices of pork, cover with water and stew the chicken until 
tender. Gravy: Take 2 eggs and a medium sized piece of but- 
tei-. Toast bread and lay the chicken on it and pour the gravy 
over it. — [Mrs. George H. Smith. 

Broiled Chicken. — Take a chicken, split it down the back, and 
place it in a kettle of boiling hot water, cook it until tender, then 
place it in a roasting pan, dredge it with salt and flour, and cook 
until a nice brown. Baste it every few minutes with melted butter 
from the pan. — [Mrs. Sara T. Hammond. 

Cottage Cheese. — Boil 2 chickens until tender, take out all the 
bones and chop the meat fine, season it to taste with salt, pepper 
and butter, pour into it enough of the liquor to make it moist, put 
into any mould you wish, and when cold cut in slices. 

— [Mrs. M. L. Bcarse. 

Potted Pigeon. — Clean, then stuff the pigeons with a dressing 
made as for turkey. Sew them up and truss. Put them in a ket- 
tle with water enough to cover them, and boil one-half hour, then 
take up and drain them, roll in flour, and fry brown in pork fat. 
Thicken the liquor in which they were boiled with flour, pepper, 
salt, cloves, mace, and catsup. Put the pigeons in this gravy and 
simmer two hours. Serve in the gravy. Add 1-2 glass of claret 
if you choose. — [M. P. C. 

A Delicious Stlfking. — 2 dozen oysters chopped very fine, 
mixed with 2 cups of bread ciumbs or cracker crumbs, an ounce 
of melted butter, a tablespoonful chopped parsley, a little grated 



30 

lemon peel, salt and black pepper, and a little cayenne, a table- 
spoonful chopped celery, moisten witli a little oyster liquor, a lit- 
tle cream and the well beaten yolk of one egg. 

— [Mrs. E. H. Davis. 

Roast Beef. — Always wipe with a wet cloth. Dredge on all 
sides with flour, salt, and pepper, and have a little flour in the pan. 
"When the flour in the pan is brown, add a pint of hot water and 
baste very often, dredging with salt and flour after each basting. 
Roast a piece of beef weighing 8 pounds 50 minutes, if to be rare, 
but if to be medium, roast one hour and a quarter, and ten min- 
utes for each additional pound. The heat for roasting must be 
very great at Hrst, to keep in the juices. After the meat is crusted 
over it is not so necessary to keep up so great a heat, but for rare 
meat the heat nuist of course be greater than for meat that is to 
be well done. Putting salt on fresh meat draws out the juices, 
but by using flour a paste is formed which keeps in all the juices 
and also enriches and browns the meat. — [Mrs. C. C. Howe. 

Braised Beef. — Take 6 or 8 pounds of the round of beef. Put 
6 slices of fat pork in the bottom of the braising pan, and as soon 
as it begins to fry add 2 onions, a carrot and a turnip, all cut 
fine. Cook these until they begin to brown, then draw them to one 
side of the pan and put in the beef, which has been well dredged 
with flour, salt and pepper. Brown on all sides, then add 1 quart 
of boiling water. Cover and cook slowly four hours, basting every 
twenty minutes. Take up meat, and finish gravy as for any roast; 
strain, pour around the beef and serve. — [Mrs. C. C. Howe. 

Pot Roast of the Shoulder of Lamh. — Put the lamb in a 
large, deep spider with a tight-fltting cover ; salt and pepper it ; 
keep about a pint of water in the spider and let it cook slowly on 
top of stove until almost done, then let water all boil out and 
brown it on both sides, then take out the lamb and turn off all the 
fat. Put in about 1 pint of water in spider and let it boil up to 



31 

get the browned juice off the bottom aud thicken with cornstarch. 
This makes a nice brown gravy. — [Mrs. J. S. Nicholson. 

Roast Hxm. — Wash the ham very clean and put on with cold 
water to cover and simmer gently for four hours, if ham weighs 12 
pounds. Remove the skin aud put ham in baking pan, cover with 
bread crumbs and 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Let it cook two 
hours in a moderate oven. Make a brown gravy as for all roast 
meats. — [Mrs. C. C. Howe. 

New Way to Cook Ham. — The ham is first thoroughly washed 
and dried, then coated with a paste composed of flour, spices, and 
water, placed in oven to bake for three' hours, basting ever}' twen- 
ty minutes. Remove from oven, remove skin, trim off burnt crust, 
skewer on slices of lemon, and dot whole with cloves, after which 
the ham is placed in a dry pan and allowed to bake for another 
hour. A fruit salad to serve with the ham is made of oranges, 
bananas, grapes, and preserved pineapple. The juices are drained 
off, blended, aud spiced. — [Mrs. J. J. C. 

Veal Birds. — Slices of veal from the loin, cut very thin; re-' 
move the bones, skin, and fat, aud pound until 1-4 of an inch 
thick, trim into pieces 2 1-2 x 4 inches, chop the trimmings fine 
with 1 square inch of fat salt pork for each bird, add half as much 
fine cracker crumbs as you have meat, season highly with salt, 
pepper, lemon, cayenne, and onion, moisten with 1 egg and a lit- 
tle hot water, as for veal loaf. Spread the mixture on each slice 
nearly to the edge, roll up tightly, aud tie or fasten with skewers. 
Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour, fry slowly in hot butter until 
a golden brown, but not dark or burned. Then half cover with 
cream and simmer fifteen or twenty minutes. Remove the strings 
and serve on toast ; pour the cream over them, garnish with points 
of toast and lemon. — [Mrs. Sara T. Hammond. 

Pressed Beek. — Boil a [)iece of beef until tender, slip out the 



32 

bones, cool, chop fine, season with salt, pepper, a little onion 
juice, a dash of cayenne ; moisten with some of the stock, put in- 
to a deep dish, cover with weight. Slice carefully, garnish with 
parsley or curled celery. — [Miss Carrie Crowell. 

Spiced Beef. — 4 to 6 pounds from the middle cut of the shin. 
Wash the meat and cut into several pieces, cover with boiling 
water. Skim carefully as it boils, then simmer until the meat falls 
to pieces and the liquor is reduced to half a pint. Remove meat 
and season the liquor with salt, pepper, and sage, add it to the 
meat and mix with a fork until the meat is all broken. Pack in a 
brickloaf pan. When cold, cut in thin slices. 

— [Mrs. Henrietta E. Chase. 

Bkeksteak. — If your beefsteak is too tough for broiling, chop 
in chopping bowl vei-y fine, season with pepper and salt, make in- 
to patties, and broil or fry in a dry, hot spider. — [Mrs. R. Bennett. 

Beef au Gratin. — Have some good slices of underdone beef 
and lay them in a well-buttered rather deep dish, sprinkling each 
slice as you put it into the dish with a little onion juice, pepper, 
salt, and chopped parsley. Alternate layers of sliced beef with 
layers of sliced ripe tomatoes. Moisten well with stock, sprinkle 
breadcrumbs over the top, and sprinkle breadcrumbs with grated 
cheese. Set in a hot oven until thoroughly heated and browned. 

— [Mrs. C. F. Sleeper. 

Veal Loaf. — 3 pounds veal, 1-4 pound salt pork, chopped fine, 
2 teaspoonfuls salt, 1-2 teaspoonful pepper, 2 teaspooufuls sage, 
2 eggs, 1 teacup of powdered crackers. Mix well together, put in 
a bread pan, bake one hour. Serve cold in slices. 

—[Mrs. H. C. Bacon. 

Meat Loaf or Balls. — G pounds beef or veal, chop and pound 
until like dough ; 1 pound chopped suet, 3-4 quart bread crumbs 



33 

sodked in 1 quart soup stock or milk, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful pep- 
per, little ginger, 1-2 teaspoonful salt, little mace. Work all well 
together, make loaf, bake from one-half to one hour, baste often 
with stock or butter. Can be made into balls for soup, or to fry, 
or rolled in cabbage leaves that have been partly cooked, placed in 
an iron kettle with a little gravy and browned. 

— [Mrs. C. A. Bursley. 

Beef Roll. — Take 2 pounds of raw, tender beefsteak, chop it 
very fine, season with salt, pepper, and a little chopped onion ; add 
3 rolled crackers, 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, and 1 well- 
beaten egg. Make into roll and bake about one hour ; baste with 
butter and water before baking. — [Mrs. Edward L. Chase. 

Shepherd's Pie. — 1 quart of any kind of cold meat, 8 large po- 
tatoes, 1 small onion, 1 cupful of boiling milk, salt, pepper, and 
nearly a pint of gravy or stock, thickened with 1 tablespoonful of 
flour. Season the meat, which has been cut into dice, and put in 
a deep earthen dish. Grate the onion into the gravy and pour 
over the meat. Pare, boil, and mash the potatoes, add the salt, 
pepper, and milk, and 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Cover the meat 
with this and bake gently half an hour. — [Mrs. A. G. Guyer. 

Steak Pie. — Cut meat in small pieces and season and cover 
with water. Let cook until tender, then thicken with a little flour. 
Make a good biscuit crust and bake in oven. Any good, juicy 
meat will answer. — [Mrs. Simeon Eldridge. 

Beefsteak and Oyster Pie. — Take 3 pounds round steak and 
cut in thin slices. Mix 3 tablespoonfuls flour with pepper and 
salt, sprinkle over oysters, and roll them in beefsteak, then place 
them in deep pie dish and place a cup in centre. Cover with rich 
pastry, quite thick, and cook slowly one hour and a half. 

—[Mrs. E. A. Baxter. 



34 

A Nice Breakfast Dish. — Chopped cold meat well seasoned, 
wet with gravy ; then take cold rice made moist with milk and 1 
egg, season with pepper and salt ; place in a platter quite thick, 
set in oven to heat and brown or fry in cakes in a frying pan. 

— [Mrs. Lizzie Johnson. 

To Cook Cold Meat. —Chop fine, add salt, pepper, put in a 
dish, cover with chopped onion, then cover with hot, creamed, 
mashed potatoes. Bake forty-five minutes. Very nice. 

— [Miss Carrie L. Crowell. 

Hamburg Steak. — Chop a slice of pork with the steak, season, 
and brown quickly in a hot frying pan. 

Hamburg Toast. — 1 pound Hamburg steak, butter size of an 
egg, 1 cup milk, salt and pepper to suit. Put butter in spider, 
when hot put in steak, cook until done, add milk, salt, and pep- 
per. Serve very hot on slices of nicely browned toast. 

—[Mrs. E. S. Gibbs. 

French Hash. — Chop very fine any kind of meat, put in stew- 
pan, season with butter, pepper, and salt, put in some water and 
allow it to cook well; just before it is done add some cream. 
Have some bread nicely toasted, place in a large dish, and put a 
spoonful of hash on each slice, pouring any gravy that may be left 
over it. This makes a nice breakfast dish. — [M. S. C. 

Meat Hash. — Chop rather fine any kind of cold meat; corned 
beef is, however, the best. To each pint add 11-2 pints of cold 
boiled potatoes chopped fine, 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 cupful of 
stock; or, if no stock is on hand, 2-3 of a cupful of hot water and 
a heaping tablespoonful of butter. Season with salt and pepi)er 
to taste. Put a little butter in the bottom of the frying pan and 
when very hot put in the mixture and stir over the fire for about 
eight minutes, being careful not to burn. Spread smoothly ; cover 



HiJatoi Son's Departient Store, 

HYANNIS, MASS. 

For well cooked food 

Have Good Cooking Utensils. 

For a pleasing table 

Have Pretty Dishes. 

For the right things to appease the demands of hunger 

Have the Right Things to Cook. 

For all these wants 

Go to H. H. Baker & Son's Department Store, 

Hyanuis. The Cooking Utensil, the Materitd to cook, and the 
Dish to serve it in, all found at their Department Store. 



pSE^BflRII'5 



BE SURE AND GO TO THE STORE OF 

HYANNIS, MASS., 



— : FOR THE : — 



Best Groceries and Provisions. 



We sell Nicholson's Electric Light Flour; call for trial package free. 
Also Faucy Plate Beef, Smoked Hams, Shoulders, Pork, Frankfort 
Sausages, Bologna, Pressed Ham, etc.. Canned Goods, Teas and Cof- 
fees, Tobacco and Cigars, Confectionery. All kinds of fruit and vege- 
tables in their season. 

You will always find best goods and lowest prices at my store. 



J. K. & B. SEARS & CO., 

...SOLE AGENTS FOR... 

THE H. ^W. JOHN^S' 
PAINTS AND ROOFING. 



These materials have an international reputation and the paints have 
proven to be peculiarly ada])ted to our atmosphere in the lasting quality 
of the difTerent shades and tlieir freedom from mildew and stain. 

AVe claim for these paints superiority over lead and oil or any mixed 
paint on the market. Put up in packages from 1-2 pint to one gallon in 
all the different shades. Send for sample card. 



37 

the pan, set back where the hash will biowu slowly. It will take 
about one-half hour. When done fold it like au omelet and tuin 
onto a hot dish. Garnish with points of toast and parsley. 

— [Miss Barry. 

Baked Hash. — Use 1 part meat, 2 parts potatoes, grate 1 onion, 
a little butter. Bake thirty minutes. 

Creamed Dried Beef. — For a family of six take 1-2 pound of 
beef, cover with cold water and gradually heat to boiling point. 
Drain and return to stove, stirring to dry off all the water. Add 
2 tablespoonfuls butter and cook until brown, stirring all the time. 
Put in 2 teaspoonfuls flour, cook a minute, then add 2 cupfuls of 
milk, which will thicken quickly and form a creamy dressing. Dust 
with pepper before serving. — [Mrs. H. H. Baker. 

Calf's Liver and Bacon. — Slice the liver, let stand a moment 
in boiling water, drain on napkin. Brown a few slices of sweet 
breakfast bacon, remove to a hot platter, drop the liver into the 
bacon fat, cook until tender but not hard, serve with the bacon 
and baked potatoes. — [Mrs. Storer. 

Deviled Ham. — Use pieces of cooked ham at least one-quarter 
fat; chop very fine. For a pint of this make a dressing of 1 ta- 
blespoonful sugar, 1 tablespoonful mustard, a little cayenne pep- 
per, 1 teacup vinegar. Mix sugar, mustard, and pepper thorough- 
ly and add vinegar gradually. Stir into ham and pack in small 
molds. — [Mrs. H. H. Baker. 



38 



Vegetables. 

Now gooJ digestion wait on appetite and health on both. 

— Shakespeare. 

"There is one thing upon which too great a stress cannot be 
laid : When the vegetable is cooked perfectly tender and ready 
to be removed from the fire, drain it thoroughly. Any amount of 
seasoning you may add will not give them the proper flavor if the 
water from the boiling is allowed to remain in them. Certain veg- 
etables, like peas, string beans, spinach, brussels sprouts, should 
always be boiled uncovered. Be generous with good butter; it is 
the one great addition to a delicately cooked vegetable." — [E. P. T. 

Scalloped Cheese Potatoes. — Put in dish layer of sliced po- 
tatoes, add dots of butter, little salt, layer of grated cheese, then 
layer of potatoes ; add milk to cover, and bake one hour. Serve 
when hot. — [Mrs. W. J. Wyer. 

Creamed Potatoes. — Heat 1 cup milk, stir in 1 heaping table- 
spoonful butter in which 1 tablespoonful flour has been mixed 
smoothly, stir until smooth and thick, add pepper and salt and 2 
cups cold boiled potatoes sliced. Set over the fire until potatoes 
are thoroughly hot. Serve at once, as this is one of the dishes 
that is "spoiled by waiting. "--[Mrs. E. S. G. 

Prepared Celery. — Cut celery into inch pieces and boil in 
salted water until tender (one hour and a half sure). Make a 
sauce of 1-2 pint milk, 1 tablespoonful butter, a little pepper, and 
flour sufficient to make it the consistency of thick cream, pour over 
the celery and serve with roast beef. 

— [Miss Carrie L. Crowell. 

Macaroni and Tomato. — I pint macaroni broken in inch 
pieces, 1 coffee cup of tomato strained, 1 tablespoonful chopped 



39 

onion, 1 tablespoonful melted butter, 1 heaping tablespoonful of 
floui', 2-3 cup cracker crumbs, 1-3 cup melted butter. Boil maca- 
roni twenty minutes, heat tomato, and fry the onion in the butter, 
stir flour in well and add to strained tomato, pour over macaroni, 
and put the cracker crumbs and butter mixed together well over 
the top and brown. — [Mrs. Sara T. Hammond. 

Macaroni Sauce. — Brown in a saucepan 1-4 pound veal with 1 
cut-up onion, put into 1 quart of tomatoes with 5 cloves ; season 
with salt and pepper, let simmer three hours, put through sieve. 
Boil macaroni half an hour in salted water, skim out and mix well 
with melted butter, pour over the tomato sauce, sifting grated 
cheese well through the whole. — [Mrs. C. A. Bursley. 

Boiled Rice. — To boil rice so that all the grains will be sepa- 
rate and the mass perfectly dry, pick it over anfl take out any 
husks there may be in the rice ; wash it in cold water and drain it, 
and then put it into plenty of boiling water salted. Boil it for 
twelve minutes ; then drain it and cover it with the lid of the ket- 
tle or a thick towel. Let it stand ten or twelve minutes longer, 
until it is dry and the grains crack just a little. Then it will be 
ready to use. 

Rice Croquettes. — To 2 cups of boiled rice put 1-2 of a well- 
beaten egg, the other half for the breadcrumbs. Roll in the bread- 
crumbs and boil in hot fat, the same as doughnuts. 

— [Mrs. Simeon Eldridge. 

Carrots. — Wash and scrape them well. If large, cut them in 
two, three, or four pieces. Put them in boiling water, with a lit- 
tle salt in it. Full-grown carrots will re(piire three hours boiling; 
smaller ones two hours, and young ones an hour. Try them with 
a fork, and when thoroughly tender take them up and dry them in 
a cloth. Divide them in pieces and split them, or cut them in 
slices. Season with butter, pepper, and salt. They should ac- 
company boiled beef or mutton. — [Mrs. S. A. Hinckley. 



40 

Boiled Pausnii'S. — If young, scrape before cooking. If old, 
pare carefully, ami if large, split. Put iuto boiling water, salted, 
and boil, if small and tender, from half to three-quarters of an 
hour ; if full grown, more than an hour. When tender, drain and 
slice lengthwise, butter well, and put in oven to brown. 

— [N. C. Hinckley. 

Sweet Pickle Beets. — Slice 6 well-boiled beets, sprinkle over 
them 6 large spoonfuls of sugar, a little salt, a cup of hot water, 
1-2 cup of vinegar, and a few pieces of cinnamon bark. 

— [Mrs. Ruth Bennett. 

Corn Oysters. — 1 can corn, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoonful baking 
powder, 2 tablespoonfuls milk, 1 egg, salt. Drop from spoon in 
hot lard and fry brown. — [Mrs. Irving Cook. 

Baked Beans. — Parboil 1 quart of small white beans, throw off 
the water, slice 1 onion and place in bottom of pan or pot, add the 
beans, with a little salt, a tablespoonful of sugar if sweetening is 
desired, and a generous piece of butter ; cover with rich milk. 
Bake several hours ; watch carefully, and if more wetting is neces- 
sary, boiling water may be used. — [Mrs. James Otis. 

Creamed Cabbage. — 1 small cabbage cut in quarters and 
plunged into kettle of water boiling very fast. Add 1 scant salt- 
spoon of soda and a teaspoonful of salt. Boil with the cover off, 
and there will be no odor. Be sure that the water covers the cab- 
bage all the time and boils very fast. Cook 25 minutes ; remove 
the hard stems and pour over it a white sauce made with 1 cup 
milk, 1 tablespoonful each butter and flour. — [Mrs. C. E. Harris. 

Cold Slaw. — Remove the outer green leaves from a firm head 
of white cabbage, cut the cabbage through the centre, cut out the 
tough stalk, put the cabbage into a large pan of salted cold water 
and let it stand for at least half an hour ; then drain it, shave it 



41 

on a cabbage-cutter, or chop it rather fine, and dress it with any 
of the salad dressings for which recipes are given. 

— [Mrs. S. A. Hinckley. 

DuTCHED Lettuce. — Wash carefully 2 heads of lettuce, sepa- 
rate the leaves and tear each leaf in two or three pieces; cut 1-4 
pound ham or bacon into dice, and fry until brown; while hot, 
add 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar ; beat 1 egg until light, add to it 
2 tablespoonfuls of sour cream, then add it to the ham, stir over 
the fire one minute until it thickens, and pour, boiling hot, over the 
lettuce ; mix carefully with a fork and serve immediately. 

— [Jennie Kent Paine. 



42 



Salads and Dressings. 

To make a perfect salad there should be a spendtlirift for oil, a miser for vinegar, a wise 
man for salt, and a uiad cap to stir the ingredients up and mix them well together. 

— Spanish Proverb. 



Chicken Salad. — Boil, bone, and chop 1 chicken. Mix the 
meat with the same amount of chopped celery and salad dressing. 
Salad dressing without oil : 1 egg well beaten, then add 1 scant 
teaspoon salt, 1 scant teaspoon mustard, 1 large spoonful sugar, 
1-3 cup vinegar added slowly, 1-2 cup milk or cream, 1 teaspoon- 
ful flour, small piece of butter. Cook in double boiler until thick 
and creamy. — [Mrs. H. C. Bacon. 

Lobster Salad. — 1 can lobster (Bird Rock brand best) ; pour 
boiling water over lobster and let stand about five minutes ; drain 
off this water, and repeat the same — this will take away the canned 
taste. Set away until very cold, then break (not cut) into small 
pieces, place in a salad dish, first a layer of lobster, then of quite 
finely cut celery, pour salad dressing over this, another layer of 
lobster, celery, and dressing, and so on, pouring dressing over last. 
For the salad dressing, use 2 tablespoonfuls hot butter, into which 
stir 1 large tablespoonful flour and add 1 cup milk, stirring to a 
smooth paste ; mix 1 egg, 1 heaping teaspoonful mustard, 1 full 
teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, a pinch of red pepper, 1-3 
cup of vinegar, stir into the hot milk or paste, and cook about five 
minutes or until the consistency of thick cream. This will keep 
several weeks in a cool place if placed in a covered glass jar. 

—[Mrs. W. L. Case. 

Potato Salad. — 3 pints of cold boiled potatoes cut in cubes, 1 
teaspoonful of grated onion, 2 tablespoonfuls chopped parsley ; 
shake salt over all. Dressing for potatoes : Yolks of 2 raw eggs, 



43 

1-2 teaspoonful salt, 1-2 teaspoonful mustard, pinch of cayenne, 1 
cup of oil, 1 teaspoonful vinegar, 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 

—[Mrs. E. H. Davis. 

Dltcii Salad. — 4 quarts green tomatoes, 1 quart small onions, 
1 quart small pickles, 1 head cauliflower, 1 bunch celery, G medium 
green peppers ; chop all together and let stand twenty-four hours, 
covered with large cup of salt and water, then boil thirty minutes 
and drain very dry. Dressing: 6 teaspoonfuls mustard, 1 table- 
spoonful tumeric, 2 cups white sugar, 1 cup flour, mix with water 
to form a paste. Have 2 quarts vinegar to a boiling point, pour in 
the paste and stir until a thin custard. — [Miss E. H. Crowell. 

Oyster Salau. — Half fill a salad bowl with white and finely cut 
lettuce leaves. On top of the lettuce place some oysters prepared 
in this way : Put the strained liquor from 2 dozen oysters into a 
saucepan, boil and skim it, add to it a tablespoonful of vinegar, 
with pepper and salt. Put the oysters in this to cook for three 
minutes; take them out, drain them, and set on ice to cool. Cover 
the oysters after they have been put on the lettuce with a layer of 
maj'onnaise. Decorate the top with olives and capers. 

— [Mrs. C. F. Sleeper. 

Green Pea Salad. — Have a pint of cold, cooked peas. Wash 
and drain a head of lettuce, pull leaves apart, and arrange in a 
salad bowl. Chop cold bits of lamb or fowl into small pieces, 
spread over the top of the lettuce, and then put the peas on top. 
Prepare a plain salad dressing with tarragon vinegar and serve, 
poured over the salad. A sprig of mint boiled with the peas im- 
proves this salad if cold lamb is used. — [Mrs. C. F. Sleeper. 

Cabbage Salad. — 1 small head cabbage chopped fine, 1 cup 
vinegar heated to very near boiling, beat 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls 
sugar, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful mustard together, pour in- 
to vinegar, stir until it tliickens ; add 1-2 cup milk iu which 2 ta- 



44 

blespoonfuls flour have been stirred, stir all together, and add 
small piece of butter, pour over cabbage. Serve cold, garuished 
with parsley and small pieces of cold boiled beets. 

—[Mrs. E. S. Gibbs. 

CABBA(iE Salad. — Mix together about an hour before serving 
1-2 white cabbage, 6 hard-boiled eggs, chopped quite fine. Make 
a dressing of 1 scant tablespoon mustard, 1 of sugar, 1-2 tea- 
spoonful salt, pepper to taste, piece of butter size of an egg, melt- 
ed.' Mix dry ingredients, then add melted butter and 1-2 cup 
vinegar. Let all heat on the stove, then turn over the eggs and 
cabbage about an hour before using. — [Mrs. N. B. H. P. 

Banana Salad. — Take 4 bananas and slice through the centre, 
juice of a large lemon poured over them ; pour sugar over. 

— [Mrs. John C. Bearse. 

Waldorf Salad. — Pare and cut into small blocks any kind of 
tart apples. Mix with them an equal quantity of celery. Dust 
with salt and pepper, sprinkle over a little lemon juice, mix with 
mayonnaise dressing, and serve on lettuce leaves. 

— [Miss Florence B. Hinckley. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. — 1-2 pint olive oil, 1 teaspoonful mus- 
tard, 1-2 teaspoonful salt, 1-2 teaspoonful sugar, 1 tablespoonful 
lemon juice, 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar, yolks of 2 uncooked eggs, a 
grain of cayenne. Put the yolks of the eggs into a bowl with the 
dry ingredients, beat these until thick and light, add the oil a few 
drops at a time ; when the mixture gets thick you can add a larger 
quantity of oil ; when too thick add a few drops of vinegar ; the 
last thing add lemon juice. The secret of success is in having 
everything cold. — [Mrs. E. F. Smith. 

Salad Dressing. — 1-2 cup vinegar, 1-2 cup cold water, 1 table- 
spoonful sugar, 1 teaspoonful salt and a little pepper, boiled to- 



"Weigh all things and hold fast to that which is good." 

EBEN A THACHER, 

^^^m QeDeral In^uraDce. 

^^aS(E3ia^tf^ 159 Devonshire Street, 



SPECIAL AGENT BOStOll, Md^S. 

NATIONAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., 
MONTPELIER, VT. 



Established 1817. 

JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO., 

CGrpetings and Upholstery 

WHOLESALE and RETAIL. 

646 to 658 Washington Street, 
BOSTON. 



If You Want 



First-Class StajleanJ Fancy Groceries 



...CALL AT... 



P. n. BASSETT»S, 

Central Store, ^ ^ ^ HYANNIS. 

"Quality and Not Quantity" is what we advocate. 

WHITMAN, SPARROW & CO, 

^ ^ niDDLEBORO ^ J^ 

Dealers in all kinds of 

Staple and Fancy Dry Goods 



Eecent improvoments have made our store the Best T>ighted and one 
of the Largest in the southeastern jiart of tlie State. A personal visit 
will easily prove the truth of this assertion, and at same time show that 
our Stoek shoidd not be overloolced in your Dry (Joods imrchases. 
Wouldn't it be well to give us a trialy 

Mail orders promptly attendtnl to. 



47 

gether iu a double boiler. When hot add 3 eggs, well beaten, 1 
teaspoonful mustard, 2 teaspoonfuls flour. — [Mrs. E. E. Field. 

Plain Salad Dressing. — Beat the yolks of 3 eggs, add a little 
salt, a sprinkling of cayenne, and half a saltspoonful of white pep- 
per. Now- beat in a few drops at a time, 5 or 6 tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil, and then just as gradually 3 teaspoonfuls of vinegar. If 
there is no celery in your salad, put half a teaspoonful of celery 
essence into the dressing. The mixture should be as thick as cold 
cream when ready for the salad. This is an excellent dressing. 

— [Mrs. Lot Crocker. 

Salad Dressing. — 3-4 cup of milk, heat wnth 1 tablespoonful of 
butter, pour over yolk of 1 egg well beaten, added to a table- 
spoonful of flour moistened with a little cold milk, salt, sugar, 
pepper, and mustard to taste. Boil all together until it thickens, 
not too long, as it will curdle. Remove from fire and add 3 well- 
beaten whites of eggs and vinegar to taste. Use double boiler, 
and if one objects to oil think it will be liked. 

—[Mrs. W. F. Orrasby. 

Salad Dressing. — 2 teaspoonfuls mustard, 6 teaspoonfuls su- 
gar, 2 teaspoonfuls salt ; mix together until smooth, then add just 
hot water enough to make it creamy, beat in 1-2 cup melted butter 
and add the yolks of 6 eggs, 1 1-3 cups of milk, 1 cup of vinegar, 
lastly add the beaten whites of the 6 eggs. Cook in double boiler 
until it just comes to a boil, stirring constantly. This makes 1 
quart of very thick dressing. — [Mrs. Osborn Crowell. 

Salad Dressing. — 1 egg, beaten, 1-2 teaspoonful mustard, 1-2 
teaspoonful salt, 1-2 teaspoonful sugar, 1-4 teaspoonful pepper, 
2 tablespoonfuls cream or butter, 1-2 cup vinegar. Set over boil- 
ing water to thicken. — [Mrs. Lydia F. Crowell. 



48 

Curry Sauce. — Chop 1 large onion fine, and cook in a table- 
spoonful of butter five minutes. Stir together 1 tablespoonful of 
curry powder and 2 of flour; add to onion and butter. Stir 
thoroughly and add 1 pint hot milk. Cook until smooth. Put in 
either fish, meat, or fowl as you prefer. — [Mrs. C. H. Allyn. 



49 



Luncheon and Chafing Dish. 

Isn't this a pretty dish to set before the king. 

— Old Nursery Rhyme. 

Sardines a la Parker. — Select 20 good-sized sardines, (im- 
ported), and remove their "jackets," using a knife with small, thin 
blade, lay them on tissue paper to remove the oil, taking care not 
to break the fish ; then melt a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing 
dish and add thereto 1-2 gill sherry, the juice of half a lemon, and 
a dash or two of Worcestershire sauce ; lay in the fish and cook 
about three minutes, turning them once. Serve on very thin slices 
of toasted brown bread. 

Chafing Dish Oysters a la Maryland. — 1 dozen oysters 
opened from the shell to the chafing dish, (this secures all the nat- 
ural juice necessary) salt to season, a strong pinch of black pep- 
per, a good generous dash of red or cayenne pepper, a teaspoon- 
ful of Worcestershire sauce, a generous lump of fine table butter, 
and a large wineglass (not less than 4 ounces) of good sherry 
wine. Light the spirit lamp, and when it is heated all through and 
simmers (boils) all over the dish, it is done. The oyster will be 
just plumped and the juice found to be fit for the gods. During 
the heating up to the boiling point they should be stirred occasion- 
ally with a silver spoon. This dish, carefully prepared, is no trou- 
ble whatever and when done far surpasses any other form of prep- 
aration that is open to the luscious bivalve. 

— [Mrs. Sara T. Hammond. 

Oyster Pan Roast. — Dozen large oysters, tablespoonful butter, 
half pint oyster juice, 2 slices toast, salt and pepper. Put butter 
in the chafing dish, as it creams add oysters and juice, seasoned 
with salt and pepper. Cover and cook two minutes. Serve on 
hot toast moistened with juice. — [Miss Mabel Penniman. 



50 

Curried Oysters. — Cook 1 pint oysters until plump, drain, re- 
serve liquor, and strain through cheese cloth. Melt 3 tablespoon- 
fuls butter, add half tablespoonful onion, and cook until yellow. 
Add 4 tablespoonfuls flour, mixed with 1 teaspoonful curry pow- 
der, 1-2 teaspoonful salt, 1-8 teaspoonful pepper. Pour on 
gradually oyster liquor and enough milk to make thick sauce. 
Add oysters, and soon as heated serve with toasted crackers. 

— [E. E. field. 

Oyster Rarebit. — Parboil 1 cup oysters, drain liquor, melt 2 
teaspoonfuls butter, add 1-2 pound cheese cut very fine, 1-4 tea- 
spoonful salt, and a few grains of cayenne pepper ; beat 2 eggs, 
add liquor, and add gradually to cheese, add oysters, and serve on 
toast. — [Miss E. H. Crowell. 

Welch Rarehit. — Cut into small dice a pound of cheese ; put 
into the chafing dish pan a piece of butter the size of a small egg. 
When it begins to melt put the cheese on it with a saltspoonful of 
salt, the same quantity of mixed mustard and cayenne pepper to 
taste. Stir with a heated spoon until the cheese begins to melt, 
then add 4 tablespoonfuls of beer or ale, then briskly and lightly 
beat, as much beer or ale again, and stir until it becomes a smooth, 
thick cream. Serve on hot buttered toast. — [Mrs. E. H. Davis. 

Welsh Rareuit. — Heat 1 cup milk to boiling pint, add 1 cup 
crumbed bread, 3-4 cup cheese. As soon as cheese is melted add 
1 egg, well beaten, and salt to season. Serve on toasted crackers, 
hot. — [Mrs. George F. Crocker. 

Shrimp Wicgle. — Melt 4 tablespoonfuls butter, and add 4 
tablespoonfuls flour, mixed with 1-2 teaspoonful salt and 1-8 tea- 
spoonful pepper. Pour on gradually enough milk to make sauce 
thicken. As soon as sauce thickens, add 2 cans shrimp, broken 
in pieces, and 1 cup canned peas, drained from their liquor and 
thoroughly rinsed. — [E. E. Field. 



51 

Shrimp Wriggle. — 1 can shrimps, 1 can French peas, 1-2 pint 
thick cream, 1 level tablespoonful flour, 1 tablespoonful butter. 
Put butter in first, then cream, then flour, and stir until smooth, 
then add the shrimps and peas. Cook about fifteen minutes in a 
double boiler, then put in chafing dish and cook five minutes, stir- 
ring all the time. Serve with hot rolls. — [Mrs. George F. Baker. 

Cheese Fondu. — Tablespoonful butter, cup of fresh milk, 
cup of fine bread crumbs, 2 cups of grated cheese, 
saltspoonful of dry mustard, 2 eggs, cayenne. Put butter in 
chafing dish; when melted, add milk, bread crumbs, cheese and 
mustard. Season with cayenne. Stir constantly and add just be- 
fore serving, the 2 eggs, beaten light. — [Miss Mabel Penniman. 

Creamed Tripe. — Parboil the tripe, cut into small pieces. Cook 
together over hot water a tablespoonful butter and a scant one of 
flour; add 1-2 pint milk and when the sauce is smooth put in the 
tripe. Cook three minutes, salt and pepper, and stir in slowly the 
beaten yolk of 1 egg, stirring constantly. Cook two minutes and 
serve. — [S. H. S. 

English Toast. — Cut bread into square pieces and toast; take 
eggs out of shell, keeping yolks whole; beat the whites to a stiff 
froth, lay them around nicely on the toast, drop yolks in centre of 
white ring, and put in hot oven to bake a few minutes. When 
taken out of oven, pour little melted butter over toast. 

— [Miss Carrie L. Crowell. 

GoLDEN-ROD. — Boil 3 eggs thirty minutes, cut the whites in 
small pieces ; make a white sauce with 1 cup milk, 1 heaping tea- 
spoonful each of butter and flour ; season with salt and a dasli of 
pepper. Cook until thickened and stir into it the whites of the 
eggs, pour over 3 slices of toast ; rub the yolks through a potato 
ricer and sprinkle over tlie top. Garnisli with parsle}'. 

—[Mrs. C. E. Harris. 



52 

Cheese Souffle. — White sauce of 1 tablespoouful butter, 1 of 
flour, 1-2 cup milk, salt; add 4 tablespoonfuls grated cheese; take 
from fire and add beaten yolks of 2 eggs, then stir in lightly the 
whites beaten stiff and bake in hot oven about twenty minutes. 

—[Mrs. F. Thacher. 

Ham Relish. — 1 cupful of cold boiled ham chopped fine, 1-2 
cupful cream, 3 hard-boiled eggs, salt and pepper to taste. Scald 
the cream, rub the yolks of 2 eggs smooth with a little of the 
cream, add to the cream in the farina boiler with the ham. Press 
the whites of the 2 eggs through a sieve, add to the mixture ; when 
thoroughly heated put on a heated dish, slice the remaining egg 
over the ham and serve. — [Mrs. Lot Crocker. 

Bread and Cheese Omelet. — Pour 1 cup boiling milk over 
cup bread crumbs ; when latter has absorbed all the milk, season 
with salt and pepper and add 1-2 cup grated cheese with 4 beaten 
eggs. Fold and cook like ordinary omelet. — [MissE. H. Crowell. 

Cottage Cheese. — Take 1 quart sour milk, set on back of stove 
until the whey is thoroughly separated from the curd ; remove all 
whey by straining through cheese cloth. Add 1-2 teaspoonful of 
salt, piece of butter size of a walnut, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 
Form into shape. — [N. C. H. 



Bicycle Lunches. 

Devilled Eggs. — Take as many eggs as desired. Boil twenty 
minutes. Put immediately into cold Avater. When cold cut in 
halves and remove yolks. Rub the yolks smooth with pepper, 
salt, and mustard, a little melted butter and vinegar to taste, then 
press prepared yolks into the whites. — [Mrs. Geo. W. Doane. 

Egg Sandwich. — Boil eggs hard, discard the whites, raasli the 



53 

yolks fine, add tomato catsup, Worcestershire sauce, salt, pepper, 
mustard, to taste. Spread between very thin slices of graham 
bread. 

E<;g Sandwich. — Boil eggs hard, separate the whites and yolks, 
chop whites very fine, press the yolks through a sieve and mix with 
mayonnaise or French dressing. Spread and cut rectangular. 

Fig Sandwich. — Scrape out the soft portion of a dozen figs, re- 
jecting the skins ; rub this to a paste. Cut the thinnest slices pos- 
sible from a loaf of either white or brown bread ; butter and re- 
move the crusts, spread over the paste, roll the bread carefully, 
pressing for a moment until there is no danger of the roll opening, 
then roll it in a piece of tissue paper, twisting the ends as you 
would an old-fashioned motto, or it may be tied with a piece of 
baby ribbon. 

Chicken Sandwiches. — 2 cups chicken chopped fine, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, 2 tablespooufuls melted butter. Heat over the fire, 
and while heating mash the chicken to a paste. Cool and spread 
between very thin slices of bread, then cut in squares, triangles, 
or any fancy shape. — [Mrs. N. B. H. Parker. 

Cheese Filling for Sandwiches. — 1 cup grated cheese, 1 egg, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 1 cup milk. Cook in double boiler until it 
thickens, set awa}^ to cool. — [G. B. H. 

Russian Sandwiches. — Spread thin slices bread with slices of 
cream cheese or Neuchatel cheese, cover with chopped olives, 
mixed with a mayonnaise dressing. Cover and press together. 

— [S. H. S. 

Cheese Straws. — Sift G heaping tablespooufuls flour on the 
pastry board, make hole in the centre and put into it 2 tablespoon- 
fuls milk or cream, 3 tablespooufuls dry grated cheese, 4 table- 
spoonfuls butter, 1-2 saltspoonful salt, dust of cayenne pepper, 



54 

and yolks of 2 eggs. Mix all these ingredients to a smooth paste 
with the tips of the fingers, roll it out one-quarter of an inch thick, 
cut in narrow straws, and bake them light yellow on a buttered 
pan in a moderate oven. These straws make an excellent relish 
with plain salad. — [Miss Carrie L. Crowell. 

Snow Balls. — 3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls milk, scant 
teaspoonful powder or cream of tartar and soda, pinch salt, flour 
to roll. Make in round balls, drop in hot lard ; when done roll in 
white of an egg and sugar. — [M. B. Hallett. 

Fruit Tcrnovers. — 2 ounces preserved orange and lemon peel, 
2 cups raisins, 1 ounce citron. Cook the orange and lemon until 
soft, scald the raisins, chop all together fine, moisten with syrup, 
teaspoonful lemon juice, tablespoonful brandy, mix thoroughly. 
Chop cup of lard and butter into cup of flour, mix 1-2 cup of cold 
water or more if needed, pinch salt if butter is fresh. Flour the 
board, roll out 1-2 inch thick, spread with butter, fold over, roll 
out again, spread with butter, roll out, cut in strips 7 inches long, 
5 wide, put in spoonful of the fruit, fold over the sides, cut the 
ends in a point, fold over, baste over with milk or beaten egg, sift 
on little sugar. Bake from fifteen to twenty minutes, golden 
brown. Nice dessert. 

Sardine Canapls. — Mix yolks of hard ])oiled eggs with equal 
quantity of sardines, rubbed to a paste. Season with lemon 
juice and spread on thin slices of bread. Cut in narrow strips. 

Walnut Sandwich. — Chop English walnuts rather fine. Mix 
with mayonnaise dressing to make a soft paste. Butter thin slices 
of bread, spread with the walnut paste, press together and cut 
into any desired shape. 

Olive Sandwich. — Mince cold chicken, tongue or lamb very 
fine and add equal quantity chopped olives. Mix with mayou-. 
naise and spread. 



Our Ulord . . . 

. . , Stands Guard 

Over every transaction in our house, insuring you satisfaction not 
nierely for the worth of your money, but to the full limit of values. 
Our word is behind every advertised statement, insuring you of its 
absolute truth. The people who daily visit our store speak of our 
methods better than we can. If j^ou have nothing else to do — 
even if j^ou do not care to buy — come and look. 



ALL KINDS OF MEN'S AND BOYS' 

FINE CLOTHING 



^ND FURNISHINGS. 



COLE'S 

ONE PRICE CLOTHING HOUSE, 

ODD FELLOWS' BLOCK, 

HYANNIS, M^SS. 



T. CROCKER & SONS 



...DEALERS IN... 



Ice, Coal, Ulood and Groceries. 

Wholesale Dealers and Packers of Fresh Fish. 
Ship Shores and Ship Chandlery* 

Railroad Wharf, SOUTH HYANNIS, Mass. 

BOOTS and SHOES 

FOR MEN, LADIES AND CHILDREN. 

T^M The Knickerbocker Shoe, 

For Ladies, Manufactured by 

.^ .^ E. W. BURT & CO. ^ ^ 

Warranted Hand-sewed, and Sold by 

JAMES E. BAXTER, Hyannis. 



57 

Cheese Wafers. — 1 tablespoonful butter lo 2 tal)IoHi)o<)nfiils of 
grated cheese; beat to a cream, put on crackers ami brown in the 
oveu. — [S. H. S. 

Potted Meats. — An excellent substitute for the expensive pot- 
ted meat fillings may be made from the odds and ends of cold meat 
minced and seasoned with "Worcestershire sauce. Another appe- 
tizing sandwich is made from cold sausage crushed fine and spread 
on the buttered side of a biscuit. Boiled fresh cod or salmon 
made into a mince or paste used in combination with egg is always 
palatable. Thin slices of cucumber that have been upon the ice an 
hour or more are an addition to this filling. Good saijdwiches can 
be made from all kinds of salads and their name is legion. 



58 



Sauces and Pickles. 

Variety aloue gives joy, 

The sweetest meats the soonest cloy. 

— Prior. 

Cranbekuy Sauce. — 1 quart cranberries, 1 pint boiling water, 1 
pint sugar. Wasli berries in Liot water and have saucepan or spi- 
der very liot. As soon as tliey begiu to boil, cook just five min- 
utes. — [Mrs. Teresa Crowell. 

Sthawf.erry Sauce. — Rub 1-2 cup butter and 1 cup sugar to a 
cream, add the beaten white of an egg and 1 cup of strawberries 
thoroughly mashed. — [Miss E. L. Baxter. 

ToLMAN Sweet Apples are very nice boiled in sufficient water 
to cover them and when cooked soft add sugar and cook awhile 
until syrup thickens. Flavor with extract of vanilla. 

—[Mrs. H. H. Baker. 

Ginger Apple. — 5 pounds sour apples chopped fine as for 
mince pies; equal parts apple and sugar; cut off outside of 3 
lemons, using the juice to taste; 1-2 pound preserved ginger. 
Dissolve sugar, put in apples, lemon, and ginger, and cook until 
soft and clear. — [Mrs. Henrietta E. Chase. 

Ginger Pears. — 1 peck hard pears sliced very thin, 5 pounds 
sugar, 6 lemons, peel 4 and slice very thin, slice other two with- 
out peeling; 1-2 pound preserved ginger. Put in kettle in layers 
and let it stand over night; in the morning put it on the stove 
and let it simmer five or six hours. Slice ginger. 

— [Mrs. Elkanah Crowell. 

Ripe Tomato Preserve. — Ripe tomatoes skinned and broken, 
not cut, half as much sugar as tomato, 2 tablespoonfuls ground 



59 

ginger in 2 separate bags, 4 to G lemons, grated rind, white part 
cut off and lemon sliced. Put all together and cook quite thick. 

— [Mrs. Henrietta E. Chase. 

To Preserve Citron. — Cut into pieces 1 1-4 inches thick the 
round way of the citron, take out the seeds and pare, then put in 
some water and cook until soft, then take it out and drain and 
throw water away. Weigh the citron and put a scant pound of su- 
gar to each pound of citron. Put in dish in layers and let it stand 
over night, or a day and night, until the sugar is dissolved, then 
put on the stove and let it cook until the syrup seems a little thick. 
If sliced lemons are used, put them in a little while before the cit- 
ron is done ; if extract, after it is done. Seal in glass jars. 

—[Mrs. Obed Baxter. 

Sapson Apple Jelly. — Cover the apples with water and cook 
until soft, then strain through a cloth, taking nothing but the juice. 
Take not quite so much sugar as juice and place in a pan in the 
oven until heated through. Let the juice boil twenty minutes, then 
add the sugar and keep trying a little on ice until it hardens. 

—[Mrs. Obed Baxter. 

Preserved Barberries. — Put berries in kettle, cover with cold 
water and bring to the boiling point, then drain ; allow a pint of 
molasses to a pint of barberries ; boil the molasses, then put in the 
berries, and take off immediately. — [Mrs. Obed Baxter. 

Rhubarb Jelly. — The following recipe for rhubarb jelly has 
been well tested : Wash the stalks thoroughly, cut into pieces one 
inch long, boil to a soft pulp, and strain through a jelly bag. To 
each pint of juice add I pound of loaf sugar and boil again, skim- 
ming often. When the juice "jellies" on the skimmer, remove it 
from the fire and pour into jars. — [Mrs. Obed Baxter. 

Spiced Grapes. — 7 pounds ripe grapes freed from the stems 
and washed, 5 pounds sugar, 3 teaspoonfuls each of cinnamon and 



60 

allspice, 1-2 teaspoonful cloves, 1 pint of good vinegar. Squeeze 
the pulp from the skins and rub through a sieve to free it from the 
seeds. Cook the skins until tender in barely water enough to 
cover, then add the strained pulp, sugar, vinegar, and spices. 
Boil for one-half hour, or until thick and clear. 

— [Mrs. Lot Crocker. 

Mustard Pickles. — 1-2 peck onions, 3 heads cauliflower, 4 
dozen large pickles cut up, 1-2 cup salt, 1-2 cup sugar, 1 gallon 
vinegar, 1-4 pound mustard, 1 cup cornstarch, 2 tablespoonfuls 
tumeric. — [Mrs. Geo. Smith. 

Chili Sauce. — 1 can of tomatoes, 1 large onion chopped fine, 2 
cups vinegar, 1 tablespoonful salt, 1 cup brown sugar, 1-2 tea- 
spoonful cayenne pepper, 1-2 teaspoonful clove, 1 teaspoonful gin- 
ger, 1 teaspoonful allspice, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon. Boil all to- 
gether one and a half to two hours. Chop the tomatoes. Instead 
of canned tomatoes you may use 1 quart of ripe tomatoes, peeled 
by pouring boiling hot water on them. — [Mrs. Julius Howland. 

Sweet Pickles. — For apples, pears, peaches, quinces, stick a 
few cloves in the fruit, cook in a syrup of 3 pounds sugar, 1 pint 
vinegar, to 6 pounds fruit. — [Mrs. Wm. P. Lewis. 

Sliced Cucumbers. — Slice thin 1 dozen cucumbers, leaving the 
rind on. Scatter salt over them and let them stand three hours, 
then turn off the liquor. Put to them 1-4 as many raw onions. 
Make a dressing of 1-4 teacup oil, the same of yellow mustard 
seed, 1-8 cup black mustard seed, 1-2 tablespoonful celery seed, 
and 1 pint vinegar. Mix this all together. No cooking. 

—[Mrs. T. W. Nickerson. 

Pear Chips. — Pare and slice in small pieces 8 pounds of pears, 
6 pounds sugar, 6 lemons, sliced, 1-4 pound preserved ginger. 
Mix and let it stand over night in preserving kettle. In the 
morning cook until tender. — [Mrs. E. H. Davis. 



61 

Jellied Peaches. — Provide first a dozen good sized peaches, 
and then half a box of gehitine, a cupful and a half of sugar, and 
a pint and a half of water. Soak the gelatine for two hours in 
half a cupful of water. At the end of that time put the sugar and 
the remaining water into a stewpan, and then let them boil for five 
minutes. Pare the peaches and cut them in halves, then cook 
them gently in the boiling syrup for ten minutes. On taking the 
stewpan from the fire turn the soaked gelatine into it ; then set 
it in another basin containing cold water and stir occasionally un- 
til the mixture becomes cool. Before the jelly has had time to 
congeal, dip a mould into cold water and turn the mixture into it. 
Set in a cool place for three or four hours. At serving time dip 
the mould into warm water and turn the contents out on a flat 
dish. Serve with whipped cream or soft custard heaped upon the 
jelly. Many people will think the flavor improved by the addition 
of a tablespoonful of brandy of maraschino when the gelatine is 
put with the fruit. — [Mrs. Charlotte C. Bassett. 



62 



Bread. 

It was a common saying among the Puritans : Brown bread and the gospel is good fare. 

White Bread. — 4 quarts bread flour, 1 teacupful sugar, 3 1-2 
level tablespoonfuls salt, 1 yeast cake, 1 teacupful lard. Mix 
with 1-2 milk, 1-2 water to quite a stiff dough. Makes 4 loaves 
of bread.— [Mrs. Fred A. Hallett. 

Rolls. — Fill cup 2 1-2 times full of milk; white of 1 egg aud 2 
tablespoonfuls sugar beaten very light, then stirred into milk ; 
small piece butter rolled into flour, 1-2 yeast cake ; mould as other 
bread ; mould down in morning, when raised light mould again, 
roll out and dip in butter and set to rise until light. This makes 
34 rolls.— [Mrs. C. A. Bursley. 

Parker House Rolls. — 2 cups scalded milk, 3 tablespoonfuls 
butter, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 yeast cake 
dissolved in 1-4 cup lukewarm water, flour. Add butter, sugar, 
salt, to milk, and when lukewarm add dissolved yeast cake and 
3 1-2 cups flour. Let rise until light, then add flour enough to 
knead, roll, brush over with melted butter, and shape. Place in 
pan one inch apart, let rise again, bake in hot oven fifteen min- 
utes. — [Mrs. Irving Cook. 

Parker House Rolls. — 1 quart of cold boiled milk, 2 quarts 
flour, 1 large tablespoonful lard rubbed into the flour ; make a 
hole in the middle of the flour, take 1 cupful yeast, 1-2 cup sugar, 
add the milk and pour into the flour with a little salt; let it stand 
as it is until morning, then knead it hard and let it rise, knead 
again at 4 in the afternoon, cut out ready to bake and let it rise 
again. Bake twenty minutes. — [Mrs. Dennis O'Neil. 



HARTSON HALLETT, 

Main Street, HYANNIS, Dealer in 

Choice ra wm I y G roce-riGS, 

Grain and Flour, Dry Goods, Small Wares, and 
Paper Hanging 



ORDERS CALLED FOR AND PROMPTLY DELIVERED. 



...M. B. ELDRID6E... 



DEALER IN 

Small Wares, Germantown and Saxony Yarns. 

Headquarters for Low Prices in Gloves, Hosiery, Corsets, Etc., Etc. 
LADIES' AND GENT'S FURNISHING GOODS. 

NEXT DOOR EAST OF DEPOT, - - HYANNIS, MASS. 



H. C. HALLETT, 

Cash Grocery and Provision Store 

801JTI1 I1YANNI8, MASS. 



The Cheapest Place to get Groceries and 
^ ^ Provisions on the Cape. ^ ^ 

BICYCLES AND REPAIRING A SPECIALTY. 



PREPARED BY THE 

n ARVARD EXTRACT Co. 

are the be-st, being pure and genuine, they cost no 

more than some inferior brands. Housekeepers, 

don't fail to ask your grocer to sui)ply 

you witli them. 

L A. BOR, A.TO R^i", 

12 PEARL STREET, CAMBRIDGEPORT, MASS. 

E. H. MacDONALD, Prop., 



65 

Brown Bread. — It is made of Franklin Mills flour, to be had at 
any of the grocers in town, in 6 1-8 pound packages: 5 cups flour, 
1 cup molasses, 1 pint milk, if milk is sweet 1 teaspoonful soda, 
if sour 2 teaspoonfuls soda, pinch salt. Steam three hours in 
Royal baking powder 1-lb. cans about two-thirds full, and cover. 

— [Mrs. E. M. Sprague. 

Brown Bread. — 1 cup rye meal, 1 cup graham, 1 cup Indian, 
1-2 cup molasses, 1-4 cup flour, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 pint sour 
milk, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

— [Miss Susie Smith. 

Prune Bread. — 1 quart whole wheat flour, 1 pint graham flour, 
1 heaping coffee cup chopped prunes, even teaspoonful salt, table- 
spoonful sugar. "Wash prunes and soak a few minutes; they 
should be of prime quality and soft; chop fine. Put all materials 
together; dissolve a Fleischman's compressed yeast cake in a lit- 
tle warm milk, add enough warm milk to make a soft dough. Let 
rise, when light stir briskly and pour into pan ; let rise again, and 
bake in moderate oven. — [Mrs. James Otis. 

Corn Bread. — 1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 tablespoonful melted 
butter, and 1 egg beaten together ; add 1 heaping cup flour with 1 
heaping teaspoonful baking powder and 1 heaping cup bolted 
meal. Mix quite soft with part milk and part water and bake in a 
hot oven. — [Mrs. W. G. Davis. 

Muffins. — 3 cups sifted flour, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful cream of 
tartar, 1-2 teaspoonful saleratus, tablespoonful sugar, a little salt. 
Stir up with milk and water the thickness of plain cake. 

—[Mrs. H. K. Hallett. 

Breakfast Gems. — 1 egg, 2 cups flour, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
1 teaspoonful baking powder, 2 cups milk. Bake twenty minutes. 

— [Mrs. Lizzie C. Johnson. 



66 

Gems. — 2 cups flour, pinch of salt, 1 egg, tablespoonful sugar, 
2 teaspoonfuls powder. Stir up with milk about as for cake. Bake 
in hot gem pans. — [Mrs. M. B. Hallett. 

Graham Gems. — 1 1-2 cups sour milk, 1 teaspoouful soda, 1-2 
teaspoonful salt, 2 tablespoonfuls molasses, 1-2 cup white flour, 
enough graham flour to make a stiff batter. They are not so good 
with sweet milk. — [Mrs. Lot Crocker. 

Rice Gems. — Take 1 cup boiled rice and moisten with 1 cup of 
milk, 1 well-beaten egg, 1 great spoonful sugar, a little salt, 2 
cups flour in which has been added 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Sift flour and powder into the mixture the last thing. Have gem 
pans hot and oven the right temperature. — [Mrs. S. Eldridge. 

Spider Corn Cake. — 3-4 cup corn meal, flour to fill the cup, 1 
tablespoonful sugar, 1-2 teaspoonful salt, scant 1-2 teaspoonful 
soda, 1 egg, 1 cup sweet milk, 1-2 cup sour milk, 1 tablespoonful 
butter. Mix the meal, flour, sugar, salt and soda, beat the egg, 
add the sour milk and one-half the sweet milk, stir this into the 
dry mixture, melt the butter in a hot spider or shallow round pan 
and pour the mixture into it; pour the other half cup of sweet 
milk over the top, but do not stir it in. Bake twenty minutes in a 
hot oven. — [Mrs. E. H. Davis. 

Apple Johnny Cake, (without eggs). — 1 pint white meal, 2 ta- 
blespoonfuls sugar, salt, 1-2 teaspoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful cream 
of tartar, milk enough to mix quite soft, add 3 apples pared and 
sliced. — [Mrs. George F. Crocker. 

Breakfast Wafers. — 1 pint flour, 1 teaspoonful baking pow- 
der, 1-2 teaspoonful salt, 3 eggs, 1 1-4 cups milk, 1 tablespoonful 
melted butter. Mix in order given, add beaten yolks of eggs with 
milk, then melted butter, aud whites last, well beaten. 

— [Mra. George F. Crocker. 



67 

Tka Gems. — 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoonfuls Ro^'jil hakinj^ powder, 
2 tablespoon fills sugar, a little salt, 2 eggs. Mix with milk and 
beat well ; have it so you can drop from a spoon into your hot gem 
pan. Bake twenty minutes. — [Mrs. C. B. Marcliant. 

Tea Cakes. — 2 1-2 cups flour, 1-2 teaspoonful soda, 1 teaspoon- 
ful cream of tartar, 1-2 cup sugar, 1-2 teaspoonful salt, 1 egg, 1 
cup milk, tablespoonful melted butter. Mix in order given, bake 
in gem pans. Add 1 cup of berries and it makes delicious berr}' 
cake. — [Mrs. George F. Crocker. 



68 



Cake. 

Would ye both eat your cake and have your cake? 

— lleywood. 

Angels' Food. — The secret in making angels' food lies in the 
baking of it. Sift 1 cup flour and 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar 
several times through a fine sieve. Beat the whites of 9 eggs to a 
stiff froth and to them add 1 1-2 cups sifted granulated sugar; 
mix carefully into this, stirring constantly, the sifted flourandadd 
1 teaspoonful extract of vanilla. Pour this batter into an un- 
greased pan and bake in a slow oven for forty-five minutes. When 
baked, turn the pan upside down on something that will admit of 
the air passing under it, and allow it to stand until the cake falls 
from the tin. Ice with white icing. Be careful in making this 
cake to have all the ingredients as light as possible. 

— [Mrs. Eleazer Baker. 

Mock Angel Cake. — 1 cup sugar, 1-2 cup butter creamed to- 
gether, 1-2 cup milk, 1 cup flour, 1-2 cup cornstarch, 1-2 teaspoon- 
ful baking powder, the whites of 4 well-beaten eggs, 1 teaspoon- 
ful vanilla. Frosting : 1-2 square chocolate, 1 cup confectionery 
sugar, butter size of a nutmeg ; melt together, then moisten with 
milk, flavor with vanilla. — [Mrs. Hattie A. Hopkins. 

Plain Cake. — Mix well together 1 cup sugar, 1-2 cup butter; 
add 2 eggs, and mix well, 1-2 cup milk, 1 even teaspoonful Royal 
baking powder, sift with the flour ; I never measure flour, use 
your own judgment; vanilla or lemon. Have your oven the right 
heat, as there is as much in baking as making. Beat until your 
arm aches. Use hands for mixing sugar and butter. 

— [Mrs. Emeline Bearse. 

Plain Cake. — 2 eggs, 2 cups sugar, 2-3 cup butter, 3 cups sift- 



JAMES F. KENNEY, 

Mauufacturer of High-grade 

HARNESSES 




Repairing and Carriage Trim- 
ming promptly done. 



Dealer in Sale Harnesses, Whips, 
Blankets, Robes, Etc. 



Stores at Hyannis and Yarmouthport, Mass. 

EVERETT P. CHILD5, 

CONTRACTOR AND GRADER. 



FIRST-GLASS LIVERY ST^qBLE. 



HYANNIS POKT, MASS. 



H. B. CHASE & SONS, 

(Established 1S4S) 

GRAIN, HAY AND COAL. 

STORE OPPOSITE DEPOT. 

EDWARD L. CHASE. 



EDWARD L. CHASE, 

CONVEYANCER, 

NOTARY PUBLIC, 

JUSTICE OF THE PEACE. 

FIRE, MARINE AND LIFE INSURANCE. 



lYANOUGH HOUSE, HYANNIS, HASS. 




T. H. SOULE, Jr., Prop'r. 
FIRST-CLASS LIVERY STABLE CONNECTED. 



71 

ed flour, 1 teuspoonful cream of tartar, 1-2 teaspoonful of salera- 
tus. Stir up with milk. Lemon or vanilla to flavor, 

—[Mrs. H. K. Hallett. 

LiGHTNiNc; Cake. — 1 cup sugar, into that sift 1 1-4 cups flour 
and 1 scant teaspoonful yeast powder; melt 1-2 cup butter and 
break 2 eggs into it, then fill the cup with milk, turn this into tlie 
flour and sugar, mix well and flavor. — [Mrs. W. P. Saint. 

One Egg Cake. — 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 2-3 cup milk, 1-2 cup 
butter, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, 1-2 teaspoonful saleratus, 
salt, 1 teaspoonful extract, 11-2 good cups flour. 

— [Mrs. Esther A. Baker. 

Cake "Without Crp:am Taktar. — Cream 1 cup butter and 2 
cups sugar together, then add 1 cup of milk and 3 eggs. Stir all 
together. Lastly 3 cups pastry flour and a piece of soda about 
as large as a pea. Very nice and will keep any length of time. 
Flavor with whatever you choose. — [Mrs. Simeon Eldridge. 

Original Nut Cake. — Cream 1 small cup sugar and small 1-2 
cup butter, add small 1-2 cup milk, 1 teaspoonful vanilla and 3 
drops almond, 1 1-4 cups flour and the beaten whites of 2 large or 
3 small eggs, 1 teaspoonful baking powder. After beating until 
very smooth and fine, spread in shallow pan and cover the top with 
a small cup of walnut meats chopped fine ; bake in slow oven. It 
is best to try a little to make sure that the nuts do not sink into 
the cake ; in case the}' do, a little more flour is needed. 

— [Mrs. C. W. Megathlin. 

Delicate Spice Cake. — Rub 2-3 cup of butter and 2-3 cup of 
sugar together, then add 3 well-beaten eggs and 2-3 cup molasses, 
and stir well ; then 2 1-2 generous cups flour, 2 teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder, 1 tablespoonful mixed spices, a little salt, and lastly 1 
cup milk. Bake slowly in a shallow pan. Fruit may be added if 
desired. — [Mrs. E. C. Baker. 



72 

Ribbon Cake. — 1 1-2 cups sugar, 1-2 cup butter, 3 eggs, 1-2 
cup milk, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, 1-2 teaspoon- 
ful saleratus. Take out 1 cup of the above mixture and add to it 
2 tablespoonfuls molasses, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 teaspoon- 
ful clove, 1-2 cup of raisins well floured. Bake in three layers 
with fruit in the middle.- -[Mrs. Obed Baxter. 

Harlequin Cake. — 1 cup sugar, 1-2 cup butter, 1-2 cup milk, 
2 full cups flour (after sifting several times), 1 heaped teaspoonful 
baking powder sifted in the flour, little salt and flavor ; now add 
the whites of 4 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, beat this several min- 
utes, and divide into three parts, reserving the largest part for the 
white ; to one part add a small square of melted chocolate, to the 
other add a few drops of pink or other color. Drop in cake pan 
large spoonfuls of the white, and on this first a small spoonful of 
chocolate, then of pink, then of white, and so on. If baked in a 
moderate oven about thirty minutes it should be fine and light. 
Frost with white or chocolate. A very pretty cake cut in squares. 

—[Mrs. W. L. Case. 

Sunshine Cake. — Whites of 7 small eggs, yolks of 5, 1 cup 
granulated sugar, 3-4 cup flour, 1-3 teaspoonful cream of tartar 
and a pinch of salt added to whites before whipping. Sift, meas- 
ure, and set aside flour and sugar; separate the eggs, putting 
whites in mixing bowl and yolks in small bowl; beat yolks to a 
very stiff froth ; whip whites about one-half, add cream of tartar, 
whip until very stiff ; add sugar to whites and beat in, then yolks 
and beat in, then flavor and beat in, then flour and fold lightly 
through. Bake at once 20 to 40 minutes. — [Mrs. H. H. Baker. 

Pork Cake. — 1 cup salt pork chopped very fine, add 1 cup boil- 
ing water, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, 1-2 teaspoonful clove, 2 cups raisins, 1 cup 
currants, 3 cups flour. This makes 2 loaves. 

—[Miss Esther H. Coffin. 



73 

White Sponge Cake. — "Whites of 5 eggs, 1 ciii) tloiir, 1 cup su- 
gar, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, flavor with vanilla. Bake in 
quick oven. — [Mrs. W. F. Ornisby. 

Cornstarch Cake. — 1 cupful each butter and sweet milk, 1-2 
cup cornstarch, 2 cupfuls each sugar and flour, whites of 5 eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, 2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, 1 of soda, 
flavor to taste. Bake in gem tins. — [Miss Hattie Ormsb}'. 

Raise Cake. — 1 quart flour, (sifted), 2 1-2 cups sugar, tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, half one of cloves and allspice. Mix all together 
dry, then add 1 cup thick sour cream, (any shortening can be 
used), 1-2 cup molasses, teaspoonful soda, salt, and sour milk to 
make about as stiff as pound cake. This makes three small 
loaves. — [Mrs. F. Thacher. 

Chocolate Cake, — Cream 1 cup sugar and a small half cup of 
butter, add 1-2 cup milk, 1 teaspoonful vanilla and 5 drops lemon, 
1 cup flour, (measure before sifting) and sift three or four times 
with a teaspoonful baking powder, the whites of 4 eggs beaten 
stiff". Put flour, powder, and eggs in together and stir until very 
smooth, bake in shallow pan or Washington pie tins. Chocolate 
filling or frosting: 1 1-2 cups sugar, 1-2 cup water; boil until it 
will drop from a spoon thick but not quite string ; take from fire, 
add 2-3 cup Baker's chocolate, stir until smooth, add teaspoonful 
vanilla and the beaten yolks of 3 eggs, beat again and spread. 
This should be a smooth, soft mixture that will spread and glaze, 
but not grain or run. — [Mrs. C. W. Megathlin. 

Orange Cake. — 2 cups sugar, 1-2 cup w^ater, 2 cups flour, 5 
eggs, leaving out the whites of 2, juice and rind of 1 orange, 1 
teaspoonful cream of tartar, 1-2 teaspoonful soda; beat the yolks 
stiff', add sugar, then the whites of the eggs after beating to a stiff' 
froth, then water Avith soda, the orange and flour with cream of 
tartar. Bake in two good-sized pans, slice oranges and put in be- 



74 

tween. Frosting : Whites of 2 eggs, 2 cups sugar, juice and rind 
of 1 orange. — [Mrs. E. F. Smith. 

Orange Cream Cake. — 1 cup sugar, 1-2 cup butter, the yolk 
of 1 and whites of 2 eggs, 1-2 cup milk, 11-2 cups flour and 1 
heaping teaspoonful baking powder. Cream : 1-2 cup boiling 
water, 1 tablespoonful cornstarch, 1 cup sugar, juice and rind of 1 
large or 2 small oranges, and yolk of 1 egg. When cool spread 
between the three layers. — [Mrs. Alma L. Bearse. 

White Cake. — 2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, whites 6 eggs, 1-2 
cup milk, 3 cups flour, 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Flavor with 
almond. Ice thickly with white icing. — [Miss Mabel L. Baker. 

White Fruit Cake. — 1 cup of butter beaten to a cream, add 2 
cups of sugar, 3 cups of flour in which 2 teaspoonfuls of cream 
tartar and 1 of soda have been sifted, and the stitlly beaten whites 
of 6 eggs. Bake in jelly cake tins, and when done, but still hot, 
put between the layers tiie following filling : Chop fine 1-4 pound 
each of figs, seeded raisins, citron, preserved ginger and blanched 
almonds, and stir them into whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff, a tea- 
cup of powdered sugar, and the juice of 1 lemon. Put this be- 
tween the layers, and frost the whole thickly with the white of 1 
egg beaten with the juice of 1-2 lemon, and I cup of powdered 
sugar. — [Mrs. Albert Bacon. 

Wedding Cake. — 1 pound flour, 1 pound butter, 1 pound sugar, 
2 pounds currants, 2 pounds raisins, 1 pound citron, 1 cup molas- 
ses, 9 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls brandy, 1 teaspoonful soda, cloves, 
cinnamon, and nutmeg to taste. Makes 3 loaves. 

—[Mrs. Wm. C. Baker. 

Lily Cake. — 1-2 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1-2 cup milk, 1 3-4 
cups flour, 2 1-2 teaspoonfuls powder, whites of 3 eggs, 1-2 tea- 
spoonful lemon, 2-3 teaspoonful vanilla. Cover with chocolate 
frosting. — [Mrs. M. Bacon. 



75 

Dutch Apple Cake. — 1 pint Hour, 1-2 teaspoonfiil salt, 1-2 
teaspoonfiil soda, 1 teaspoonfiil cream tartar, 1-4 cup butter, 1 
egg, scant cup milk, 4 sour apples, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Mix 
dry ingredients in order given, rub in butter. Beat egg, mix with 
milk, then stir all together. Slice apples, place on top, and put 
on sugar; to be eaten with sauce. — [Mrs. George F. Crocker. 

Cream Cakes. — Shells: Boil 1-2 cup butter and 1 cup hot wa- 
ter, stir in 1 cup sifted flour; cool, then add 3 eggs. Bake in 
drops. Cream : 2 cups milk scalded, stir in until thick 3 eggs, 
2-3 cup sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls wet cornstarch ; mix together ; fla- 
vor. — [Mrs. Imogen Crocker. 

Marshmallow FiLLiNi;. — 3-4 cup sugar, 1-4 cup milk, 1-4 
pound marshmallow, 2 tablespoonfuls hot water, a little vanilla ex- 
tract. Heat sugar and milk to nearly boiling ; do not stir ; melt 
the marshmallow by breaking up and adding the hot water. Cook 
until smooth, then add the hot milk and sugar slowly, and beat. 
Remove, and stir until cool, then add vanilla and till. Good for 
frosting if desired. — [Miss Carrie L. Crowell. 

CoKFEK Frostinc;. — 1 cup coffee boiled with a cup of sugar, 
drop a little into water, if it hardens pour it slowly on the well 
beaten whites of 2 eggs; when cold put between cakes and on 
top. — [Miss Carrie L. Crowell. 

FuriT Filling. — White of 1 egg well beaten, 1 cu}) of powder- 
ed sugar, 1 cup of any kind of fruit, such as grated apple, pear, 
etc. — [Mrs. John C. Bearse. 

Caramel Filling. — 1 cup sugar, 3-4 cu^) milk, butter size of an 
egg. Boil fifteen minutes, stir while boiling, until right quantity 
to spread between cakes. — [Mrs. John C. Bearse. 

Raisin Filling for Cake. — Boil 1 cup sugar and 4 tablespoon- 
fuls of water until it threads from a fork. Pour the hot syrup over 



76 

white of one egg beaten stiff, stirring all tiie time. Add 1 cup 
cliopped raisins, or 1-2 cup chopped raisins and 1-2 cup chopped 
nuts. — [Mrs. G. E. Tillson. 

Nut Cakes. — 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup English walnut meats 
slightly broken, not chopped, 3 heaping tablespoonfuls flour, 1-4 
teaspoonful baking powder, 1-3 teaspoonful salt, 2 eggs. Beat 
the eggs, add the sugar and salt, flour and powder, and lastly 
meats. Drop in buttered tins. Bake until brown. Remove from 
tins immediately after baking. — [M. S. C, 

Soft Gingerbread. — 1-2 cup molasses, 1-2 cup sugar, 1-2 
cup hot water, 3 cups flour, large tablespoonful butter, teaspoon- 
ful ginger, teaspoonful soda, little salt. — [Mrs. K. R. Bearse. 

Spiced Snaps. — 1 pint flour, 1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon 
and ginger, 1-2 teaspoonful of nutmeg, 1 cup molasses, 1-2 cup 
brown sugar, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1-2 cup butter. Heat the mo- 
lasses and sugar together till sugar is melted. Dissolve the soda 
in a little warm water and stir quickly into molasses, add the but- 
ter, then the flour mixed with the spices. Add enough more flour 
to roll thin. Cut out and bake in a quick oven. 

— [Miss Esther L. Baxter. 

Ginger Snaps. — 1 coffee cup New Orleans molasses, 1 cup but- 
ter, 1 cup sugar. Place them on the stove and let it come to a 
])oil, then take off immediately and add a teaspoonful of soda, a 
tablespoonful of ginger and 1 egg. Roll thin and bake quickly. 

—[Mrs. W. A. Baldwin. 

Ginger Snaps. — 1 cup molasses, 1-4 cup sugar. Boil together 
fifteen minutes. While boiling stir in 1-2 cup butter or lard, 1 
tablespoonful ginger. When cool add 1 teaspoonful soda, and 
flour enough to roll. Roll very thin and bake quickly. 

— [Mrs. Daniel Bearse. 



p^thois'ize: 








Foi" shipping all kinds of jjoods to 'Boston, and any other places, 

as we are in direct connection with all the popular Expresses 

and can give the lowest through rates. Personal 

attention given to all orders. 

AUG. 1. 1874. SEPT. 1, 1899. 

lATIVI. F. ORMSBY^ Manager. 

BOSTON OFFICE, 105 ARCH ST. Telephone, Boston, 906. 

HYANNIS CARRIAGE & TEAMING CO. 

Does all kinds of moving. Has comfortable Carriages to mec^t all trains 
at railroad station. Closed Carriages for Funeral or Wedding Parties. 
Please give your orders in good season. 

WILLIAM F. ORMSBY, MANAGER. 

Sep t. 1st, 1899. 

THOS. W. NICKERSON, 

IIYATVTVIH, 

Marble and Granite Work*. 



A collection of the latest designs in Marble and Granite constantly on 
hand. 



aEORQE ^W. H^LTLETT, 

AGENT FOR 

AMERICAN FIRE IXSURANCE CO., of Phila., 

PIItENIX IXSURANCE CO., of Brooklyn, 
HOLYOKE MUTUAL, of Salem, 

DORCHESTER, of Boston, 

ABIXGTON, of Abington, Mass. 

ALSO JUSTICE OF THE PEACE. 



CHAS. E. HARRIS, M. D., 

HYANNIS, MASS. 



Office at Hallett House, Hyannis Port, Daily. Telephone 
Connection. 



ALFHEB C. DREW, 

Electric Bells, Battery Materials, Electric Supplies. 



General Re|iair Work. 

Bicycle Repairs, Lathe Work & Brazing, Bicycle Sundries, Fittings, &c. 



S. A. PUTNAM, 



HYANNIS, MASS. 

J^ortraits and Landscapes, Crayon, Pastel, and Water Color Portraits 
made to order. Please call and examine specimens. 

Frames and Fittings on hand or furinshed at short notice. 

DEVELOPING AND PRINTING FOR AMATEURS. 



JOHN H. SMITH, 

Ice, Milk, Etc., 
HYANNIS PORT, - - MASS. 



79 

Ginger Cakes. — 1 cup of shortening, 1 cup of sugar, 1 of mo- 
lasses, 1 of milk, 1 teaspoonful of saleratus, 1 tablespoonful of 
ginger, flour enough to roll out. — [Mrs. J. R. Hall. 

Fruit Cookies. — 1 1-2 cupfuls of sugar and 1 of butter, work- 
ed to a cream; add 3 eggs well beaten, 1-2 cu[)ful molasses, 1 tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in a little cold w^ater, 1 cupful of raisins, 
seeded and chopped, 1 of currants, 1 teaspoonful of all kinds of 
spices, flour to roll. — [Mrs. A. G. Guyer. 

Good Doughnuts. — While the doughnut question is being agi- 
tated, I'll send in ni}^ ideas concerning them, also my recipe. I 
have tried all kinds of recipes and am thoroughly convinced that 
too much shortening and fat that is not real hot are the principal 
causes for their soaking fat. I have found one that is just right : 
2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 2-3 cup new milk (which contains about the 
right amount of shortening), 2 even teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, 
1 even teaspoonful soda, flour enough to roll easily, salt and nut- 
meg. Have the fat real hot. — [Mrs. B. F. Crocker. 



80 



Pastry. 

No flippant, sufiared notion 
Shall my appetite appease, 
Or bate mj' soul's devotion 
To apple pie and cheese. 

—Eugene Field. 

Pastry. — 1 pound butter, 1 pound flour, 1 teaspoonful salt; 
wasli tlie butter, then sift the flour, adding the salt, take half the 
butter and mix into the flour with the hands, afterwards wetting it 
with ice water — use a knife for that purpose — make it soft but not 
sticky ; put dough on a board and roll twice, making it an inch 
thick, roll up, and put in ice chest over night, also the other half 
of the butter ; next morning put butter where it will soften, roll 
out the dough half an inch thick, and spread with the butter, re- 
peating this twice, then roll up and put in a pan, placing where it 
can be chilled. It will then be ready for use. — [Mrs. E. F. Smith. 

Mince Pie Meat. — 2 quarts chopped meat, 1 quart suet, 3 1-2 
quarts chopped apples, 1 1-2 cups chopped citron, 1 lemon, juice 
and grated peel, 4 teaspooufuls vanilla, 3 cups raisins, currants, 
salt and sugar to taste, 2 teaspooufuls clove, 3 teaspooufuls nut- 
meg, 6 teaspoonfuls cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful allspice, 1 cup mo- 
lasses, 1-2 cup brandy, 2 teaspoonfuls vinegar. — [M. P. C. 

PiMPKiN Pie. — 1 quart pumpkin, 1 quart milk, 1 1-3 cups su- 
gar, 1 teaspoonful ginger, cinnamon and salt, 4 eggs, butter the 
size of an egg. Heat half of the milk and pour over pumpkin and 
spices; add cold milk and eggs last. — [Mrs. J. S. Nicholson. 

Sqiasii Pie. — 1 pint squash cooked and sifted, 1 quart milk, 1 
cup sugar, small piece butter, 1 teaspoonful ginger or cinnamon, 
little salt. Scald milk and pour over mixture, then add 3 eggs 
well beaten. Enough for 2 large pies. — [G. B. H. 



61 

Squash Pie without E«gs. — 1 1-2 cups squash, 1 small tea- 
spoonful salt mixed into the squash, 1 quart milk, G crackers 
rolled fine, sugar to taste, 1 teaspoonful ginger, 1 teaspoonful cin- 
namon. This makes 2 pies. — [Mrs. J. W. Drew. 

PixEAi'FLE Pie. — 1 can pineapple chopped fine, 1 1-4 cups su- 
gar, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 2 eggs, 1 1-2 cups of the juice. This 
makes 2 pies. — [Mrs. Chas. H. Carney. 

Cranberry Pie. — 2 cups cranberries chopped quite fine, 1 cup 
raisins chopped, 1 1-2 cups sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch, 
1 1-2 cups boiling water, 1 teaspoonful vanilla, small piece butter. 
Makes 3 pies.— [L. T. C. 

Cranberry Pie. — 1 quart berries chopped quite fine, 2 cups su- 
gar, 1-2 cup molasses, 1 tablespoonful cornstarch dissolved in 
just a little cold water, to which add 11-2 cups boiling water. 
Bake with top crust. It makes, I think, 3 pies. Very good. 

— [M. J. Hall. 

Lemon Pie. — 1 whole lemon grated, taking out seeds, 1 cup su- 
gar, yolks of 3 eggs, 1 small teaspoonful salt, 1 large or 2 small 
potatoes grated. Turn on the potatoes 1 cup boiling water and 
add to the rest, well beaten. Frost with the white of the eggs, and 
brown. This makes 1 large pie. — [Mrs. J. W. Drew. 

Lemon Pie. — 3 lemons, 7 eggs, 2 1-2 cups sugar. Leave out 
the whites of 4 eggs and 1-2 cup sugar for frosting. Beat whites 
to a stiff froth. This makes 2 pies.— [Mrs. C. II. Eldridge. 

Lemon Pie, — 1 heaping tablespoonful cornstarch, mix with a 
little cold water, then add 1 teacup boiling water ; set on the top 
of teakettle to cook ; take a bowl, break in 2 eggs, and whip ; add 
1 cup sugar, juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 tablespoonful 
melted butter, stir in cornstarch ; make a nice crust. A nice pie. 

— [Mrs. P^meline Bearse. 



62 

Lemon Pie. — 2 lemons, 2 cups sugar, 5 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls 
cornstarch, 1 pint railk ; grate the lemons, add the juice, stir to- 
gether ; scald the cornstarch with milk. This will make 2 pies, 
which must be baked in rich puff paste. — [Mrs. John O'Neil. 

Raisin Pie. — 1 cup raisins stoned and chopped fine, 1 table- 
spoonful flour mixed with raisins, juice of 1 lemon, 1 small cup wa- 
ter, 1 cup sugar. This makes 1 pie. Use top crust. 

—[Mrs. C. A. Bursley. 

Rhubarb Pie. — 1 large coffee cup chopped rhubarb, 2 heaping 
teaspoonfuls cornstarch, 1 cup sugar, yolks of 2 eggs. Bake with 
one crust and frost with the whites. — [Mrs. C. E. Harris. 

Tart Shells. — 1 cup lard and butter. 1 tablespoonful white su- 
gar, white of 1 egg, 3 tablespoonfuls cold water, flour to make 
stiff paste, roll out. Cut with a round cutter. 

Lemon Cheese. — 1-4 pound butter, 1 pound sugar, 6 eggs, rind 
of 2 lemons and juice of 3. Put all the ingredients into a sauce- 
pan, carefully grating the lemon rind and straining the juice. 
Keep stirring the mixture over the fire until the sugar is dissolved 
and it begins to thicken ; when of the consistency of honey it is 
done. Make tart shells of rich pastry and fill with the cheese. 

—[Mrs. E. S. Bradford. 



83 



Puddings and Light Desserts. 

The iiroot'of the pudding is tlie eating. 

— Cervantes. 

Indian Pudding. — 3 tablespoonfuls meal, 1 tablespoonful flour, 
2 eggs, 3-4 cup molasses, 1 quart milk, 1-2 teaspoonful salt, 1-2 
teaspoonful ginger, 1-2 cup suet. Scald the milk in a double 
boiler, mix the meal and flour with a little cold milk and put it in 
the hot milk, stirring constantly until it thickens, then pour into a 
pudding dish with the molasses, eggs, etc., and bake two or three 
hours in a moderate oven. 1 or 2 sweet apples sliced fine and 
mixed with it improve it very much. — [Mrs. J. S. Nicholson. 

Haktford PiDDiNC. — 1-2 loaf or pieces of stale cake, pour over 
1 wineglass of wine ; beat 3 eggs with 3 tablespoonfuls sugar and 
pour on them 1 pint boiling milk ; pour over cake, beat well, steam 
in a mould 1 1-2 hours. — [Mrs. Wra. P. Lewis. 

Prune Pudding. — 1 pound prunes, whites 4 eggs, 1 cup sugar; 
cook prunes day before, draining the liquor ; cut in small pieces in 
pudding dish ; beat eggs to stiff froth, stir in cup of sugar and put 
into the prunes ; beat all together. Bake twenty minutes or half 
hour. — [Miss Flora Ilallett. 

Snow Pudding. — 1 box Cox's gelatine dissolved in 1 pint cold 
water, afterwards pour in 1 pint boiling water, then flavor with 1 
teaspoonful lemon extract, stand it in a cool place until it begins 
to jellify; in the meantime take the whites of 8 eggs, beat stiff, 
then take the jelly and beat both together thoroughly until you are 
sure that the two will not separate when put away to harden ; then 
take the yolks of the 8 eggs, mix wuth 1 cup sugar ; have 1 quart 
milk boiling in a double boiler, then stir in the eggs and sugar; 
stir it until it begins to thicken, then let it cool, and flavor with a 
teaspoonful of lemon extract. The white part must be stiff so it 



64 

can be cut, then pour the yellow sauce over it. This is very nice. 

— [Miss Rebecca E. Blau. 

Fig Pudding. — 1 cupful suet, 1 pound figs, 3 eggs, 2 cupfuls 
bread crumbs, 1 cupful sugar, 2 cupfuls milk. Wash, pick over 
the figs, and chop ; chop the suet ; beat the eggs light witiiout sep- 
arating; mix all the ingredients thoroughly, turn into a well- 
greased mould, cover and boil three hours. Serve hot. 

— [Mrs. Lot Crocker. 

Queen of Puddings. — 1 pint nice bread crumbs, 1 (juart milk, 
1 cup sugar, yolks of 4 eggs, grated rind of 1 lemon, piece of but- 
ter size of egg cut in small pieces and put on top. Bake like cus- 
tard ; when baked spread over the top the whites of the eggs beat- 
en to a stiff froth with 1 cup sugar and juice of 1 lemon. Brown 
lightly in oven. Real nice. — [Mrs. J. R. Hall. 

Gen. Hancock Pudding. — 3 cups flour, 1 coffee cup chopped 
raisins, 1-2 cup dried currants, 1 teacup suet chopped fine, 1-2 cup 
molasses, 1-2 cup sugar, 2 cups sweet milk, 1 teaspoonful soda, 
little salt. Mix, and steam three hours. Sauce : 1 cup sugar, 1 
egg beaten very light, 1-2 cup hot milk. — [Mrs. Geo. Penniman. 

Lemon Puddinc;. — 6 crackers rolled fine, yolks of 6 eggs, 2 cups 
sugar, grated rind and juice of 2 lemons, 1 pint milk, 1 small cup 
butter. Soak the crackers in the milk. Frosting : The whites of 
6 eggs beaten to a stiff froth and 3 tablespoonfuls sugar. Then 
set back in the oven to brown. — [Mrs. E. E. Field. 

Sponge Pudding. — 4 tablespoonfuls flour, 4 tablespoonfuls su- 
gar, yolks of 4 eggs, 1 quart milk, a little salt. Stir the milk 
scalding hot into the flour, sugar, and yolks of eggs. When ready 
to put in oven add the whites beaten stiff and fold them in. Bake 
one-half hour and serve immediately. Serve with foamy sauce, 
flavored with sherry wine. — [Mrs. George F. Baker. 









* ^ >» 

/|S \ X / K are prepared at all times to fill orders for wedding itif 

/|\ If V invitations, reception invitations and cards. We em- ^ 

/l\ w 

4^ ploj'^ the best copper plate engravers in Boston and New York, iy|^ 

4S and can give results that no young lady need be ashamed of {^ 

% (the kind of work vve are proud to claim with our imprint). yf/ 

ifk If a lower priced grade of work is desired, our imitation of xl/ 

% plate printing is unsurpassed, and we can give you the latest v(> 

4ii styles in shapes, finish and tints. \t/ 

% VISITING CARDS. I 

I ADDRESS CARDS, ^1^ 

I CAKE BOXES, | 

I JAP. NAPKINS, I 

I WAXED PAPER, | 

/jv or anything you may need in the printing line can be secured ^ 

M of us. y|/ 

* t 

I Pleasant Mreet, ^ ^ I1YANNIS. | 

\ I 



r. B. e> r. p. oo»», 



SOLID SILVER.... 

....SILVER PLATE 



For the table are specialties with us. Our business is growing, 
through earnest efforts with reliable well-known goods. 

J. A. QUYER & CO., JEWELERS, HYANNIS. 



F. M. WEBER, 

F=Ulatcbmaker-- 



HYANNIS, -:- -:- -:- MASS. 



"Watches, Clocks, Jewelry, Spectacles, Eyeglasses, etc., put 
in order. First-class work only. 



QM'^^S^^ 




yM" ' ' Hyannis. Mass. 



L. K. PAINE & SON, 
CONTRACTORS and BLILDERS 

HYANNIS PORT, MASS. 



.lOBHING PROMI'XL.Y ATTENDED TO. 



87 

Sponge Puddin(;. — 1-2 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 1 pint tlour, 1 
egg, little salt, teaspoonful yeast powder. Steam one hour. 

— [Mrs. K. R. Bearse. 

Snowball Pudding. — 2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch dissolved in 
a little cold water ; add a pint of boiling water, beat the whites of 
4 eggs stiff and beat into the cornstarch after removing from the 
fire; add a pinch of salt; put in cups to cool. Take yellow and 
beat in 2-3 cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful cornstarch, put into a quart 
of boiling milk, let it thicken up, and remove from the stove ; fla- 
vor to taste. Drop the balls into the custard. 

— [Mrs. Osborn Crowell. 

Moonshine Plddinc;. — Whites of 6 eggs beaten very stiff, beat 
into this 6 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, take 1 cup fruit and stir 
in. Pack with ice until wanted. Eat with sweetened cream ; va- 
nilla.— [Mrs. E. O. Bond. 

Cheap Friit Pudding. --1 cup molasses, 1 cup milk, 2 eggs, 
1-2 cup melted butter, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup currants, small piece 
citron, 3 cups flour, salt, spice to taste, teaspoonful powder or 
cream of tartar and soda. Put the batter in a tight covered pail, 
set in water, steam nearly three hours. — [S. L. H. 

Rice Pudding. — Cook in a double boiler 1-2 cup rice in 1 pint 
water until the water has all cooked away, then add 1 quart milk 
and cook one hour. Beat together 1 cup sugar, 3 eggs, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls salt; stir this into the rice and add raisins and a little nutmeg. 
Turn into a buttered pudding dish and bake about thirty minutes 
in a slow oven. — [Mrs. A. G. Guyer. 

Rice Puddinc;. — 1 quart milk, 3 tablespoonfuls rice, 1-2 cup su- 
gar, 1-2 teaspoonful cinnamon or nutmeg, butter the size of a 
small egg. — [Mrs. Lizzie C. Johnson. 

Cekealine Pudding.— 2 quarts skim milk, 5 cups cerealine, 
J 1-2 cups molasses, and a little salt. Bake very slowly four hours 



88 

or more, stirring occasionally, and adding more cold milk as it 
cooks away. Similar to an Indian pudding. Serve with butter or 
cream. — [Mrs. G. E. Tillson. 

Cottage Pudding. — 1 cup milk, 1-2 cup sugar, 1 egg, 2 table- 
spoonfuls melted butter, 1 1-2 teaspoonfuls baking powder sifted 
with 1 pint flour; add 1-2 cup raisins seeded and chopped. Bake 
slowly one-half hour. Serve with sauce. Sauce : 1 pint boiling 
water, 1 cup sugar, thicken with 4 teaspoonfuls flour; cook about 
five minutes ; strain, add a piece of butter the size of a walnut and 
flavoring. — [Mrs. Minnie L. Snow. 

Lemon Sauce. — 2 cups hot water, 1 cup sugar, 3 heaping tea- 
spoonfuls cornstarch, tablespoonful butter, flavor. 

— [Mrs. George F. Crocker. 

French Toast. — 1 baker's loaf of bread sliced in inch slices; 
make a batter of 6 eggs and 1 quart milk, soak three hours ; fry in 
butter brown. To be eaten warm with cold sauce. Very good. 

—[Mrs. W. A. Hallett. 

Apple Fritters. — Beat 2 eggs without separating until light, 
add 1-2 pint milk, 1-2 teaspoonful salt, sufficient flour to make a 
thin batter that will pour from a spoon ; pare and chop (not fine) 
2 good-sized apples, mix these into the batter, and add 2 teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder ; mix and drop by spoonfuls into smoking hot 
fat ; when brown turn. Take out with skimmer and drain on 
brown paper. Serve very hot, dusted with powdered sugar. 

— [Mrs. George W. Hallett. 

Banana Fritters. — 1 cup flour, 1-4 cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful 
baking powder, 2 eggs, little salt. Beat all together, add sliced 
bananas, drop in hot lard with teaspoon. — [Mrs. Geo. F. Crocker. 

PopovERS. — 1 cup milk, 1 cup flour, 1 egg, salt. Bake in cups. 
Serve with sauce, — [Mrs. Wm. P. Lewis, 



89 

Lemon Sauce. — 1 cup sugar, 1-4 cup water, 1 teaspoonfiil but- 
ter, 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. Boil sugar and water until it 
thickens slightly, add butter and lemon juice ; serve as soon as 
butter is melted. Serve with wafers. — [Mrs. George F. Crocker. 

Banana Cream. — 1 1-2 pints of milk on the stove to scald. 
Beat together 1-2 cupful of sugar, 1 tablespoonful of cornstarch, 
yolks of 4 eggs, and add to the milk when it is hot, stir until it 
thickens, but do not let it boil. Slice 4 bananas thin, 1-3 cupful 
sugar over them. Turn on the custard and sprinkle cocoanut on 
the top. — [Mrs. Chas. H. Carney. 

Coffee Cream. — Soak half a box of gelatine for two hours in 
1 cup of cold water. Put half a cupful of the best coffee, finely 
ground, into a pint of boiling milk and let it stand five minutes, 
then strain the milk thj-ough a thick cloth upon a cupful of sugar, 
and add to it the well beaten yolks of 4 eggs. Stir the whole over 
the fire until creamy, then take from the fire and add the gelatine. 
Stir the gelatine well, and pour the cream through a soup strainer, 
set away in a cool place ; when it begins to thicken stir briskly 
into it a pint of whipped cream and turn into a wet mould. 

— [Miss Carrie L. Crowell. 

Chocolate Blanc Mance. — 3 cups milk, 1-2 cup sugar, 2 
squares Baker's chocolate, 3 (heaping) spoonfuls cornstarch. Boil 
milk, add cornstarch and sugar, cook well, stirring all the time. 
Melt chocolate on teakettle, add to milk and cornstarch, stir hard, 
flavor.— [Mrs. Geo. W. Hallett. 

Floating Islands. — 1 quart milk and boil, 1-2 dozen eggs 
beaten stiff, dip into boiling milk and remove ; put into a dish ; 
beat the yolks with 1 cup sugar and stir into the boiling milk to 
thicken, remove and put over whites which are beaten. 

— [Mrs. Vim. Sherman. 

Stuawbebry Custard. — Make a custard of 1 quart milk and 



90 

yolks of 5 eggs, sweeten to taste. A gill of sugar and pint of 
ripe strawberries, crush together and pass through a strainer. 
Take whites of eggs, and while beating to a stiff froth add a gill of 
sugar, little at a time ; then to sugar and eggs add the strawberry 
juice. Serve with custard. — [Mrs. O. H. Crowell. 

Fruit Jelly. — 3-4 of a box of gelatine dissolved in 1-2 pint 
cold water one hour, then add 1-2 pint of boiling water, the juice 
of 2 lemons and 2 cups of sugar, strain and let it stand until it be- 
gins to thicken, then stir in fruit and nuts cut in small pieces. 
This will make two moulds. Serve with w-hipped cream. 

— [Mrs. Minnie L. Snow. 

Fruit Jelly. — Cut 6 bananas in lengthwise slices, slice 6 
oranges, dissolve a little more than 1-2 box Cox's gelatine in 1-2 
pint cold water, then add 1-2 pint boiling water, the juice of 2 or 
3 lemons, and sweeten to taste. In any vegetable dish place a 
layer of the cut bananas, then a layer of tbe sliced oranges, sprin- 
kle a little sugar over them. Fill the dish in this order, when the 
gelatine has cooled a little pour it over the bananas and oranges, 
and set away to harden. Turn out of the mould and serve very 
cold. — [Mrs. Obed Baxter. 

Jellied Prunes. — Soak 1-2 box of gelatine in 1-2 cup cold 
water. Cook 1-2 pound prunes until soft in 1 quart of cold water. 
AVhen they are done drain them and cut in pieces, and pour the 
hot prune water over the gelatine, adding 1 cup of granulated su- 
gar, rind and juice of 1-2 a lemon. Serve with whipped cream. 

—[Mrs. E. E. Field. 

Strawberry Jelly. — Soak 1 box of gelatine in 1-2 pint cold 
water twenty minutes, add 1 pint boiling water, stir until dis- 
solved, add scant half pint sugar, strained juice of 1 1-2 pints 
of strawberries, and juice of 1 lemon. Strain and cool. 

—[Mrs. E. E. Field. 



eHAS. B. MARGHANT, 
5??55i^^ Holstein = Fresian Cattle, 

,jt Ji AND MILKMAN. ^ J^ 



We take every precaution to furnish clean, pure milk to our customers. 
P. O. ADDRESS, HYANNIS. 

NOAH BRADFORD. N. ALFONSO BRADFORD. 

N. BRADFORD 6L SON^ 

-Mc Contractors and Builders 3|:^ 

HYANNIS, MASS. 

Plans and Specifications for all classes of construction furnished 
when desired. JOBBING PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. 



FRANK P. HALLETT, 

I COAL !® AND !® WOOD | 

PARK SQUARE, HYANNIS. 



-%^ 



Summer cottagers supplied promptly. Orders by mail given 
personal attention. 

Bill beads, Letter heads, Envelopes, 
Statements, Etc., -can be bad at the 
PATRIOT OFFICE, Pleasant street; 
or in fact anytlung else in the printing 
line you may be in need of. 

This Cook Book was printed by us. 

f. B. ^ F. P. (i088, Pleasant St., llyanDb. 





92 

Pineapple and Oranges. — Cut off the top of the pineapple, 
pare away the bottom so it may stand firm, then with a spoon 
scoop out the pulp, leaving the shell whole. Cut the pulp into 
small pieces and mix with 3 oranges cut in small pieces, sweeten, 
put in a jar and pack in ice and salt, let stand for two hours ; 
when frozen and ready to serve turn mixture into pineapple shell, 
garnish dish around the shell with leaves from the top of the pine- 
apple, serve with whipped cream. Very dainty. — [J. B. C. 

Banana Charlotte. — Line a mould with slices of banana, soak 
1-4 box gelatine in 1-4 cup cold water, then dissolve in 1-4 cup 
boiling water, add 1 cup sugar and juice of 1 lemon, strain through 
cheese cloth and add pulp of 2 bananas cut in slices ; stir the mix- 
ture over ice-cold water until it begins to thicken, then beat in the 
whites of 3 eggs well beaten, until dry; when the charlotte becomes 
stiff as a sponge cake batter turn into lined mould and let stand 
until thoroughly cold and set. Serve with whipped cream or boiled 
custard of the yolk of the eggs. Oranges may be used in place of 
bananas ; line the mould with quarters and add 1 cup of pulp and 
juice in the charlotte. Excellent. — [J. B. C. 

Mousse. — 1 quart thick cream ; add to a scant cup of powdered 
sugar 1-2 pint black coffee or fruit juice, place dish in ice water 
and whip to froth ; skim off froth and whip the thin again. Pour 
carefully into freezer and leave three or four hours packed in ice 
and salt. — [Mrs. Franklin Crocker. 

Ice Cueam. — 1 can condensed milk, 2 cans of cream, 2 cans of 
hot water, 1-2 cup sugar, 2 or 3 eggs, flavor to taste. Beat eggs 
and sugar, add milk and cream, then hot water ; scald, but do not 
boil. — [Mrs. Julius Rowland. 

Ice Creaji. — 1 pint of cream, 1 pint of milk, 1 teaspoonful of 
gelatine dissolved in water. Sweeten and flavor to taste. Fine. 

— [Sallie Hallett. 

Ice Cream. — 1 cup cream, 2 cups milk, 1 small can condensed 
milk. Sweeten and flavor to taste. — [Mrs. Wm. J. Wyer. 



93 



Sweets to the Sweet. 

Stuffed Dates. — Remove the stones of the dates and fill with 
the following : Beat the white of an egg with confectioner's sn- 
gar, have chopped fine the required amount of English walnuts or 
peanuts, mix the chopped nuts and egg and sugar together, and 
stuff the dates. — [ALrs. John C. Bearse. 

Stuffed Raisins. — Cut open choice raisins on one side and re- 
move the seeds ; fill with bits of blanched almonds, English wal- 
nuts, or candied cherries ; close each raisin thus filled and wrap in 
another seeded raisin. Roll in fine granulated sugar. 

Candied Almonds and English Walnuts. — Boil 1 cup granu- 
lated sugar, 1-8 teaspoonful cream of tartar, and 3-4 cup of water 
over a very hot fire ; do not stir after the boiling has begun ; re- 
move from fire as soon as there is a very faint yellow tinge to the 
syrup. Take the shelled nuts (almonds having been blanched) on 
the point of a large needle, dip them in syrup, then drop on oiled 
paper. 

To Blanch Almonds. — Pour over boiling water and let them 
remain until the skins will remove easily. — [Mrs. Albert Bacon. 

FouDANT. — Place a porcelain basin over the fire in a pan of wa- 
ter ; dissolve in it 2 cupfuls granulated sugar, 1 cupful boiling wa- 
ter, 1 teaspoonful vinegar, a pinch of cream of tartar, and cook all 
together twelve minutes. Do not stir ; test by dropping a little in 
cold water ; when it congeals into a soft ball it is ready to pour 
onto a plate to cool. Do not scrape the pan. "When cool enough 
to handle stir one way only, and then put away for twenty-four 
hours; it is then ready to mould into candies'. If it should have a 
tendency to stick, work in raw sugar. It can be flavored as de- 
sired, when moulding. For a pretty variety, stone some dates, fill 
the cavities with the cream, cut the dates into small pieces and 



94 

cover with cream. One maj' conceal in the foudant candied fruits, 
nut meats, figs, fresh fruits. 

Panoche. — Boil together 2 pounds of brown sugar and a cupful 
of milk until the mixture hardens when dropped into cold water. 
Add to this a pound or more of chopped walnuts, a piece of butter 
size of an egg, and a teaspoonful vanilla. — [L. F. H. 

Fudge. — 2 cups sugar, 2 squares chocolate, 1-2 cup cream (or 
milk), small piece butter (size of walnut), teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Boil fifteen minutes without stirring; remove from lire and beat 
until it begins to tiiicken. Turn out to cool. 

— [Mrs. F. W. Kingman. 

Fudge. — 2 cups sugar, 2-3 cup milk (or cream better), butter 
size of an egg, chocolate to suit, say 2 squares; add nuts or figs 
or dates, or anything else desired. Cook until it forms a soft ball 
in water ; take off and beat until it nearly sugars, and pour in cool- 
ing pan. Can be made in chafing dish. Cocoa may be used in- 
stead of chocolate; use 2 tablespoonfuls. — [E. C. Wheeler. 

Vanii,la Taffy. — 1 cup vinegar, 3 cups sugar, butter size of a 
walnut, 1-2 teaspoonful vanilla. — [Miss Fanny A. Snow. 

Butter Scotch. — 3 cups sugar, 3-4 cup water, butter size of a 
walnut, a pinch of soda, flavor to suit the taste. When cooling 
mark off into squares with a knife. — [Miss Fanny A. Snow. 

BuTTEu Scotch. — 1 cup butter, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup mo- 
lasses. Boil until hard in water, from ten to twenty minutes. 
Turn on buttered tins and score. — [Mrs. PL O. Bond. 

Chocolate Caramels. — 2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 1-4 pound 
chocolate. Boil in frying pan twenty minutes, add 1-2 cup butter, 
boil four minutes, take from fire, stir until just before it turns to 
sugar. — [Mrs. E. O. Bond. 

A Simple Syrup. — To 1 cup water add 2 cups granulated su- 
gar. Remove the instant it begins to boil. — [Peter Pineo Chase. 



95 



Wrinkles. 



Table of Measures and Weights. — 

1 quart of flour=l pound. 

2 cupfuls of butter=l pound. 

1 generous pint of liquid=l pound. 

2 cupfuls of granulated sugar=l pound. 

2 heaping cupfuls of powdered sugar^l pound. 

1 pint of finely chopped meat packed solidly=l pound. 

— [Miss Barry. 

A principle which the Iyanoltjh Cook Book strongly advocates 
is the use of pure baking powders. ''The only pure baking pow- 
ders are made from cream of tartar in which are combined the most 
useful leavening agencies and healthful food qualities. In imita- 
tion powders alum is used, which is poisonous and seriously affects 
the health." To this matter our ladies should give attention — the 
difference in price between the cheap powders and the pure, best 
powders not being worthy of consideration. 

To Clean Silver. — To 1 gallon of soft water add piece of 
washing soda size of an egg. Place silver in clean agate kettle 
with soda water enough to cover and set over fire and let boil fif- 
teen minutes ; take from kettle and rinse immediately in hot soap 
suds and dry on clean towel. — [G. B. H. 

To DO UP Shirt Bosoms. — Take 2 ounces of fine white gum- 
arabic powder, put it in a pitcher and pour in a pint of water; 
having covered it, let it stand all night ; in the morning pour it 
carefully from the dregs into a bottle, cork it, and keep it for 
use. A tablespoonf ul of gum water poured in a pint of starch made 
in the usual manner will give to lawn, either white or printed, a 
look of newness. — [Mrs. M. L. Bearse. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




QA mill II III! 

014 485 533 4 e 
Melted parafine poured over jellies and jams is the surest safe- 
guard against air. 

Beeswax and salt will make rusty flatirons as clean and smooth 
as glass. 

Table cloths should be frequently altered in the folding for iron- 
ing. This prevents their wearing at the crease. They may be 
folded double part of the time and then in triple folds. 

To Stone Raisins. — Put them in a dish and pour boiling water 
over them ; cover and let them remain in it ten minutes. It will 
soften them so that by rubbing each raisin between the thumb and 
finger, the seeds will come out clean. Then they are ready for cut- 
ting or chopping if required. 

Lay sardines on tissue paper to free them from oil. 

Salt will curdle new milk. Hence in preparing dishes from the 
latter, add salt after it is taken from the fire. 

Never keep a furiously hot fire ; a gentle and sustained heat is 
alwaj's best. 

If you are troubled with ants, ask your druggist for a strong so- 
lution of corrosive sublimate ; wipe your shelves with it and they 
will disapi)ear. This is unfailing. 



TO OUR READERS. 

It is regretted that owing to the limited number of pages, which 
the committee was not allowed to exceed, all the excellent recipes 
contributed could not have been embodied in this book. 

A number of recipes given by former residents are appreciated. 

We would call the attention of our patrons to the advertisements 
that appear on these pages. Let us show these firms our appreci- 
ation by giving them, in return, our patronage. 



