Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 






THE DICTIONARY OF DAINTY BREAKFASTS 



ABERDEEN UNIVERSITY PRESS. 



I 






THE DICTIONARY 



OF 



DAINTY BREAKFASTS 



\ 



BY 



PHYLLIS BROWNE 



WITH A TABULAR INTRODUCTION 



BY 



A MERE MAN 



. / 



^ - \ 



\ "^ < 



.J 



I (. 



^ J -J J J J ^ ^ 



',, (Vw.*< U « tt 



:£ 



\ V/ 









C A S S E L L AND COMPANY, Limited 

LONDON, PAHIS, NEW YORK &> MELBOURNE 

1899 



^ 



- Kp7 3>OS 



.3-5 



/ 



.\ 



/7 ) i (. 



HARVARD 

UNIVERSITY 

LIBRARY 

MAR S »»♦*. 



I 

( 



I 



• •• • • ••• 

•• ••• • 

••• • • • 



• -• 



• • 



• • • 

• • • • 

• • • 



•••••• I I • •• • !.•• 

• • • • •• ••• •• 



• •• • 

• • • 
• •• • 



'• • • •* 






I* • •• • 

• • 

• • 

• ••• 



• • • • • 
• • • •* 



INTRODUCTORY. 



i 

1 

, m 

It. 



A breakfast should consist : — 

A. Of a fundamental dish. 

B. Of one or more trifling accessories for the 

benefit of ( i ) those who are so hungry that 
the fundamental dish does not suflice, and 
(2) those who feel so sick that they cannot 
touch it. 

C. Of fresh fruit, stewed or tinned fruit, jam or 

marmalade. 

D. Of drinks. 

E. Of bread, toast or scones. 

A. FUNDAMENTAL DISHES. 

These may he considered under the heads of : — 

1. Ham or bacon, alone, or in combination 

with other articles. 

2. Eggs cooked in various ways. 

3. Fish and allied products. 

4. Certain internal portions of the animal 

economy. 

5. Meats of different kinds, hot or cold. 

I. Ham or bacon. 

(a) A cold ham or gammon of bacon may 
serve as the fundamental dish or as 
an accessory dish. 



'^ 



vl iNTRODUCTOkV, 

{V) Fried or broiled ham, or bacon, alone. 
This cannot be recommended as a 
primary dish, except for those who are 
feeling chippy as the result of the 
evening previous. 
{c) Combinations of fried ham or bacon 
with other substances. These are much 
to be commended : the more important 
substances with which bacon may be 
combined are as follows : — 
(a) Poached or fried eggs. 
(j8) Sheep's kidneys, stewed, with a thick, 

nourishing gravy, 
(y) Liver : the pieces should be small and 

very well cooked. 
(8) Mushrooms, 
(c) Tomatoes, or even bananas (not much 

to be commended). 
(0 Oysters or scallops. 

2. Eggs cooked in various ways. 

{a) Simply boiled : these are more properly 
to be regarded as accessory trifles. 

{V) Poached, on toast. 

{c) Fried : these are impossible, apart from 
bacon. 

{d) Scrambled or buttered. They should 
never taste of vaseline. 

{e) Tomatoed eggs : much to be commended. 

(/) Omelettes. A perfectly plain omelette is 
not sufficiently nourishing as a piece de 
resistance. It is better to add fragments 



' \ 



Introductory, vii 

of bacon, chicken, kidney, or tongue. 
Or it may appear as : — 

Savoury omelette. 

Omelette aux fines herbes. 

Sweet omelette \ (not very Suitable at 

Cheese omelette J breakfast)* 

Tomato omelette. 
{g) Eggs may also be cooked in recondite 
and fancy ways, such as " ceufs a 
rAurorey^ " sunshiny^ eggs," " hashed 
eggs with gravy," and last, but not 
least, " curried eggs '\ 

Fish and allied products. 

{a) Real fish. The following kinds are suit- 
able : — 

Salmon cutlets (when salmbn is down to is.). 

Trout (when you can get it). 

Fried soles (if expense is no object). 

Lemon soles, filleted. ^ 

Fried plaice or brill. 

Cod cutlets. 

Fresh herrings (in season). 

Bloaters : these should be gently smoked 
and not salted. It is best not to split 
them, or remove the backbone, as by 
these processes the natural anatomy of 
the fish is disarranged, and you get 
your mouth full of bones. It takes 
ten minutes longer to eat a bloater the 
backbone of which has been removed; 
and there is an added risk to life. 

Kippers : the same remarks apply to these ; 



viii Introductory, 



there is. risk in eating them, and they 
are usually too dry and too salt. 

Whiting : these should be quite fresh. 

Mackerel : split and fried, or better stuffed 
and baked.- 

Smelts : these should be quite fresh. 

Sardines : 1 ^i ^ • n 

* 1 . h these are accessory trines. 
Anchovies : J ^ 

Dried haddock : not too often. 

Skate : an unpleasant dish, rather to be 

; deprecated. 

Sprats : excellent, if you don't mind the 

smell all over the house. 

[V) Crustacea. 

Lobster, if you can afford it in London. 
Dressed crab. 

Curried prawns : perhaps the best break- 
fast known to man. 

{c) Molluscs. 

Oysters, even tinned ones, stewed in cream : 
many will avoid fresh oysters on ac- 
count of the dangers of typhoid. 
Good scalloped. 

Scallops. 

{d) Products of fish ^ etc. 

Cod's roe : excellent. 

Herring's roe, on toast : an admirable 

accessory. 
Kedgeree, from the remains of yesterday's 

fish (not very good). 



t 



I 



Introductory* ix 

4. Certain internal portions of the animal 
economy. 

{a) Sweetbreads : too dear in London as a rule. 
The proper sweetbread is the thymus 
\ gland ; the pancreas is frequently foisted 

j, upon the unwary, but it is tough ; it 

1 may be known by its elongated shape. 

{V) Kidneys (sheep's or even pigs') : these 
may be fried, but are better stewed with 
gravy. They may be eaten with bacon. 
Kidneys stewed with mushrooms are a 
dream. 
{c) Liver : with bacon, vide^ supra, 
{d) Brains : lamb's brains fried in bread 
crumbs are not bad, but rather cloying. 
(<?) The heart is scarcely suitable for break- 
fast. 
No other viscera are suitable. 

5. Meats of different kinds. 

The very robust are willing to eat chops and 
steaks at breakfast. Men in training commonly 
do so. A joint of cold meat may often be seen 
* ^. ovi' the sideboard in country houses ; your hunting 
man eats this. The ordinary person eschews 
butchers' meat at breakfast. 

The following meats are suitable : — 

{a) Cold tongue — tinned or otherwise. Ox 

or sheep. 
(Ji) Cold pheasant or grouse, when a present 

of game has arrived, 
(r) Grilled or devilled fowl : principallv the 
bird', leg,. ^ 



i 



t 

\ 



\ 

\ 



X Introductory. 

(d) Cold fowl or duck, left over from the 

night before. 
{e) Fricasseed fowl with bacon round the 

edge. 
(/) Any sort of fowl or game (or rabbit) 

may be served as a curry. 
(^) Sausages (pork or beef), 
(i) Fried or grilled. 

(2) Sliced and curried. 

(3) As sausage rolls. 
{h) Meat pies, of sorts. 

(i) Pork pie — cold. Those imported 
from Yorkshire and Northampton- 
shire are the best. They should be 
large : the smaller varieties contain an 
undue proportion of crust. 

(2) Cold pigeon pie — containing also steak 

and egg. 

(3) Cold veal and ham pie — containing 

egg. 

(4) Cold beefsteak and kidney pie — con- 

taining egg. 

(5) Game pie. 

(6) Lamb pie. 

(/) Hot cutlets : veal or mutton — with or 
without tomatoes. 

Fried or chip potatoes may be served with any 
hot meaty breakfast dish, and, indeed, also with 
certain varieties of hot fish. 

B. ACCESSORY DISHES. 

1. Boiled eggs. 

2. Cold ham or gammon. 



Introductory, xi 

3. Sardines, in the tin or on toast. 

4. Anchovies : the best are filleted ones in oil. 

5. Potted meats of all kinds, tinned, or home- 

Aiade when the tongue gets too low to 
be cut any longer. The works of a 
tongue, such as the lymphatic glands 
embedded in the fat at its root, pass 
unnoticed in the potted article. 

6. Shrimp, bloater, or anchovy paste. 

7. Mushrooms on toast. 

8. Herring's roe on toast. 

9. Porridge and its allies, Quaker Oats and 

other farinaceous foods. These may be 
eaten at the beginning of breakfast, as 
a foundation, or at the end, to fill up 
the cracks. 
10. Cold sausages of sorts. 

C. FRUITS AND VEGETABLE PRODUCTS. 

Fresh fruit — especially oranges — apples, pears 
and other fruit in season. These are 
best eaten at the beginning of break- 
fast, in large quantities. They are 
better at breakfast than at any other 
meal of the day. 
Tomatoes. 
Stewed rhubarb. 

Tinned pears, peaches, apricots, etc. 
Jam and marmalade. 
Honey or honeycomb. 
Cream is good with them all, especially 
Devonshire cream. The best way of 
eating Devonshire cream is, however, 



xii Introductory, 

unquestionably with cheap, black, 
highly-flavoured treacle. 

D. DRINKS. 

Tea or cojfFee. Cocoa. 

When fresh fruit is taken at the beginning of 

breakfast, a glass of hock is a suitable 
^ accompaniment. 

A glass of good light beer is excellent after 

breakfast, as they know very well at 

Westminster school. 

E. BREAD, ETC. 

Stacks of hot buttered toast at each corner of 

the table. 
Racks of dry toast. 

Tea cakes and scones — hot and buttered. 
Cut bread and butter. 
White and brown bread. 
Vienna and other fancy breads. 
Hot rolls (for the reckless). 
Hot cross buns on Good Friday. 

Recipes for the preparation of these foods will 
be found in the following pages. For convenience 
of reference they are arranged in alphabetical 
order, and an exhaustive index will be found at 
the end of the work. In this, the attention of 
housewives is directed to the lists of dishes found 
under the headings : Made-up Breakfasts (that is 
breakfasts made from cooked fragments), Night- 
before Breakfasts (or breakfasts wholly or partially 
prepared overnight) and Ten-minute Breakfasts 
(or breakfasts which can be quickly prepared). 



THE DICTIONARY OF 

DAINTY BREAKFASTS. 

Anchovies give a flavour to many appetising dishes 
suitable for breakfast. They are to be bought either in 
a bottle or in a cask ; also in the form of prepared paste. 
The best are filleted anchovies in oil. They will keep for 
a long time. 

Anchovies and Egg Toast. — Ingredients : Two slices 
of toast, two eggs, six anchovies and a teaspoonful of 
chopped gherkin or chopped parsley. Time required : 
Ten minutes in the morning. (Eggs boiled, anchovies 
filleted (see Anchovies, To Fillet) and gherkins chopped 
overnight.) Fillet anchovies and cut into strips. Chop 
gherkins. Boil eggs hard. Divide the yolks of eggs into 
halves, cut the whites into slices. Toast and butter the 
bread and cut into rounds three inches across. Arrange 
strips of anchovies in an open trellis with egg in the 
centre, white and yellow alternately. Sprinkle chopped 
gherkins on the top. 

Anchovies and Eggs. (See also Eggs.) 

Anchovies, To Fillet. — Soak the anchovies in cold 

water for an hour, then wipe them dry gently with a 

cloth. Open the fish with the thumb and finger, and, 

beginning at the tail end, loosen the bone and the tail 

with it. Each anchovy will of course furnish two fillets, 

and small as these are the^ should be cut into thin strips, 

because anchovy has a very strong taste. 

1 



2 The D/ctjoxarv of Dajxty Breakfasts. 

Anchovies with Eggs. — Ingredients: One egg, one 
anchovy, a quarter ounce of ancho\y butter or anchovy 
paste, for each square of toast. Tinu required : Ten 
minutes. Take as many squares of toast as there are 
persons. Butter with anchovy butter {see Axchovy 
Butter), or anchovy paste (see Axxhovy Paste), or 
salmon and shrimp paste (to be bought of the grocer). 
Lay a poached egg on the top, and ornament with strips 
of fillets of anchovy. 

Anchovy Butter. — Mix together two ounces of butter, 
a teaspcx>nful of essence of anchovy, and a tablespoonful 
of lemon-juice. 

Anchovy Butter, Toast, and Buttered Eggs. — 

Ingredients : A slice of toast, two eggs, a teaspoonful of 
essence of anchovy, ditto of lemon-juice, one ounce of 
Dutter. Time required : Fifteen minutes. Work anchovy, 
emon-juice, and butter to paste. Spread on toast ; pile 
buttered eggs on top. {See Buttered Eggs.) 

Anchovy Paste — Home-made, for sandwiches. — Boil 
two eggs twenty minutes. Shell, and beat the yolks to 
powder. Beat two ounces of butter to cream. Add the 
yolks, a little salt, and essence of anchovy to make a stiff 
paste. Press into small jars, and cover with dissolved 
butter. The paste will keep some time. 

Anchovy Toast for Breakfast. — Ingredients : Two 

slices of hot buttered toast, twelve anchovies, a gill of 
salad oil, chopped parsley. Time required : Fifteen 
minutes in the morning. (Anchovies and parsley chopped 
overnight.) Fillet anchovies and mince the fillets. Warm 
in oil, spread on toast, sprinkle parsley on the top. Make 
hot in the oven, and serve hot. {See Anchovies, To 
Fillet.) 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 3 

Apples, Baked. — Cooked apples are a valuable ad- 
dition to the breakfast-table. Wash, but do not pare, 
any number of good, sound, well-flavoured baking apples, 
and stamp out the cores without breaking the fruit. Put 
the prepared apples into a baking dish with a teaspoonful 
of sugar, and either a shiall piece of stick cinnamon or a 
strip of thin lemon-rind in the holes. Pour boiling water 
to the depth of an inch round the apples, and bake until 
they are soft throughout without having fallen. Pour 
the syrup that remains over the apples (there will not be 
much), and 3erve in a glass dish with cream. The apples 
will need to be baked two hours or more according to 
quality, but they must be slowly cooked. 

Apples, Stewed. — Pare, core and quarter six good 
baking apples. Make a syrup by boiling half a pound of 
sugar in half a pint of water. When it boils, skim it, 
and add the juice of half a lemon or of an orange, and a 
pinch" of powdered cinnamon. Cook five minutes, put in 
the apples and stew gently until each portion is soft 
throughout, but whole. Cool before serving, or serve 
cold. 

Bacon and Eggs. (See Eggs.) 

Bacon and Kidney. {See Kidneys.) 

Bacon and Mushrooms. — Ingredients : Half a pound of 
good sized mushrooms, half a pound of bacon cut into 
very thin rashers, a gill of stock slightly thickened with 
flour, six small rounds of buttered toast, chopped 
parsley. Time required : Fifteen minutes. Peel and 
trim the mushrooms. Stew gently in a covered saucepan 
with an ounce of butter, pepper and salt for six minutes, 
add the thickened stock and stew four minutes longer. 
Cook the rashers of bacon and make the toast. Serve 



4 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

the mushrooms on the toast, with a rasher in alternation 
with each round. Sprinkle chopped parsley over, pour 
the sauce round, and serve hot. 

Bacon, Boiled. — Boiled bacon goes farther than bacon 
cooked in rashers. The middle cut of a gammon of 
bacon is excellent for boiling, and it can be used as ham. 
The corner piece of the gammon is lower in price, but 
it is less profitable than the middle cut. Amongst 
other favourite parts for boiling is a piece weighing 
two pounds and a half from the end of the loin for a 
small family, or a part of the thick flank or the back ribs. 
If the piece of bacon chosen is very salt and hard it 
should be soaked for some hours before being cooked. 
If fresh and mild it may be sufficient to wash it and scrape 
the flesh, trimming away any parts that look dark and 
uninviting. Put it into lukewarm water, bring gently to 
the boiling point, skim the broth, and simmer gently till 
done. Bacon requires long boiling, but the precise time 
depends upon quality and thickness. The thicker side 
of a flitch would need to boil half an hour longer than 
the thinner side. It is fairly safe to allow twenty-five 
minutes per pound, and twenty-five minutes over, for a 
thick piece. Smoked bacon also needs to boil longer 
than unsmoked bacon. If it is to be eaten cold, bacon 
may with advantage be left in the liquor in which it was 
boiled until both are cool. The skin should then be 
drawn off and the fat side covered thickly with fine rasp- 
ings or glazed and decorated. 

Bacon, Choice of. — Bacon is a very usual dish at 
English breakfast-tables, and it may be cooked in many 
ways, toasted or baked or broiled or boiled or fried. 
When of good quality and daintily cooked it is an excel- 
lent dish, and it is worthy to have pains bestowed upon 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 5 

it. Choose bacon that has thin rind, firm pink fat, bright 
red lean that adheres to the bone, and a pleasant smell. 

Bacon, Cold. — Slices of cold boiled bacon may be egged, 
breaded and toasted for breakfast. 

Bacon, Rashers of, Baked. — Time required: Ten 
minutes. Cut streaky bacon or slices taken from/ 
the back very thin. Before slicing trim away rind, bone 
and all smoky parts. Place them in a large baking tin 
overlapping each other, and in such a way that each strip 
of lean shall rest on the fat of the rasher underneath. 
Bake in a gentle oven. 

Bacon, Rashers of, VneA.—Time required : Ten 
minutes. It is a mistake to put rashers of bacon into a 
cold frying-pan and place them on the stove till done. 
Rather put a little bacon or other fat into the pan, when 
hot lay the slices in it and cook slowly over a slow fire, 
turning repeatedly. On no account let the bacon frizzle 
over a quick fire. 

Bacon, Rashers of. Rolled and Baked. — Time re- 
quired : Six or seven minutes. Cut the bacon free from 
rind, bone and smoky parts into very thin slices about 
two inches wide and four inches long. Roll these up and 
run a skewer through them, place the skewer with the 
bacon upon it on a tin, and bake. Remove the rolls from 
the skewer and serve. 

Bacon, Rashers of. Toasted or Broiled. — Time re- 
quired : Six or seven minutes. The streaky covering of 
the ribs is generally chosen for cutting into rashers, or 
when lean bacon is preferred slices may be taken from 
the back. The readiest method of cooking rashers is to 
fry them ; perhaps the best way is to toast them, and it 
is worth while to buy a Dutch oven if it is to be used for 



6 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

this purpose only. Have the rashers freshly cut and as 
thin as possible, less than a quarter of an inch in thick- 
ness. Trim away the bone, rind and smoked part. Hang 
the slices on the toaster, put them before a clear fire, 
and turn frequently till done. 

Bacon Rashers with Potatoes. — Ingredients: Cold 
potatoes, bacon. Time required : Ten minutes. When 
cold potatoes are left from the previous day^s dinner they 
may be used to make a very tasty dish for breakfast. 
Chop the cold potatoes into dice. Toast the bacon in 
the usual way. When cooked take it up and fry the 
potatoes in the fat which has run from it. Pile on a 
dish and put the bacon round. 

Batter, Frying. — Put two ounces of flour into a bowl 
with a pinch of salt. Mix very smoothly with half a gill 
of lukewarm water and three dessertspoonfuls of salad 
oil. The batter may be made several hours before it is 
wanted. 

Beef, Frizzled. — A homely breakfast dish. Ingredi- 
ents : Half a pound of cold boiled salted beef, three eggs, 
two ounces of butter, flour, pepper and salt. Time re- 
quired : Fifteen minutes. Shave the meat into thin 
slices and simmer these in half a cupful of stock or water 
for a minute or two to freshen the meat. Pour off the 
water. Melt the butter, and curl or frizzle the meat in 
it. Stir in the beaten eggs, season with pepper and salt, 
dredge lightly with flour and serve hot. 

Beef, Glazed. — {See Glaze.) 

Beef Hash au Gratin. — Ingredients : Remnants of 
hashed meat. An ounce of butter. Half a cupful or 
more of bread crumbs, Time required : About twenty 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 7 

minutes. Put the hash into a buttered dish and 
sprinkle bread crumbs over its surface. Moisten with 
the butter and bake till hot through. 

Beef, Jellied. — Proceed as for Beef, Pressed (^.«^.)' 
After taking the meat out of pressure, trim it neatly, and 
put it into a deep dish of about its own size. Pour over 
it some clear liquid stock strong enough to jelly firmly 
when cold. Leave it all night. When turned out, it will 
be found that the stock has run under the meat, thus 
causing it to be encased in jelly. 

Beef, Potted. — Potted beef not to be despised can be 
made of fragments of cooked meat mixed with a due pro- 
portion of fat, which has been cut into small pieces, 
pounded and seasoned judiciously. If superior potted 
beef is wanted, proceed as follows : Take the required 
weight of fillet steak, cut it into small pieces, salt them 
and put them in a jar, cover closely, place in a saucepan 
of water and stew very gently for about two hours. Pour 
off nearly all the gravy and pound the beef till smooth 
with a fourth of its weight in fresh clarified butter ; 
whilst pounding add from time to time a seasoning of 
salt and pepper, with enough essence of anchovy to bring 
out the other flavours. Put the preparation again into 
the jar and let it get hot through in the oven. When 
cold put it into the small pots that it is to be kept in 
and cover with melted fat. 

Beef, Pressed. — Pressed beef is an excellent standing 
dish for breakfast use, and it is not expensive, because it 
is made of the cheaper and coarser parts of meat. If 
fat mingled with the lean is not disliked the thin flank of 
beef could be taken. If fat be disliked the thick flank 
would be better, or a good piece of brisket might be 
obtained. In any case get a good piece of nine or 



8 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

ten pounds and have the bones removed. Pound to- 
gether in a mortar a pound of common salt, a pound of 
bay salt, a pound of moist sugar and one and a half 
ounces of saltpetre. Rub this mixture into the beef for 
ten minutes, then lay it with the salt in a deep pan, and 
turn and rub it every day for ten days or a fortnight. 
(The salt mixture can be used again and again.) When 
the meat is to be boiled wash it quickly in cold water to 
free it from salt, roll it as tightly as possible and bind it 
securely with tape. Put it in a stew-pan with lukewarm 
stock or water to cover it, an onion and a bay leaf with 
it, bring it gently to the point of boiling, skim the liquor, 
draw the pan back and simmer gently till done, allowing 
five and twenty minutes to each pound. Take it up, lay 
it on a dish, put another dish on the top with two or 
three flat irons, and* let it remain under pressure all 
night. Next day remove the bindings, trim the meat 
neatly and glaze or jelly. (See Glaze, and Beef, Jellied.) 
Put a silver skewer through it and garnish it prettily 
for serving. 

Beef, Spiced. — Proceed as in the above recipe, adding 
an ounce of powdered cloves, half an ounce of mixed spice, 
a pinch of black pepper and one or two grates of nutmeg 
to the salting mixture. 

Bloaters are very often served for breakfast, and they 
furnish a very tasty dish. They are cooked in various 
ways. The most usual way of dealing with them is 
either to grill them over a slow fire, or to toast them. 
They have a very strong odour which clings to any utensil 
that is used for them, and they should be kept apart from 
other food. They should be perfectly cleansed without 
being cut open. To this end make a slight cut in the 
back of the head, then twist the head off with the fingers 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 9 

and the inside will come with it. Hold the fish under 
the tap, and let the water run through it. Wipe it dry. 
The fish may be grilled over a slow fire, and turned 
frequently until it begins to smoke, when it is done 
through ; it needs only to be a little more than well 
warmed. A knob of butter may then be melted over 
it, and it should be served very hot. 

Bloaters, Baked. — Time required : A few minutes. 
Prepare the fish in the way already described and press 
the fleshy portions together to make it look plump. Put 
it in a lightly buttered frying-pan or baking-tin, cover 
with a sheet of buttered paper and cook in a moderate 
oven till done. 

Bloater Cakes. — Time required : With preparation 
overnight, a few minutes in the morning. Lightly cook 
the bloaters, and take up the meat free from skin and 
bone. Mix with it its bulk of mashed potatoes, and bind 
with butter or cream (potatoes left from dinner may be 
used), and pepper well. Form the preparation into 
balls, egg and crumb them, and fry in hot fat. 

Bloater on Toast. — Time required : A few minutes. 
Put the bloaters into boiling water and let them simmer 
gently for two or three minutes, till the skin can be 
drawn from them easily. Skin them and lift the flesh 
from the bones in fillets. Brush them with butter, and 
pepper lightly, then lay them between slices of buttered 
toast. Cut them into neat squares, place them in the 
oven till very hot, and serve. 

Bombay Toast. {See Toast, Bombay.) 

Brains. — Sheep's brains can be had all the year 
round, and an excellent dainty dish for breakfast can be 
made with them. It is important^ however, that they 



10 The Dictionary oP Dainty Breakfasts. 

'Should be quite fresh. In summer they deteriorate in 
quality very quickly. However they are to be cooked 
first put them in water to which a few drops of vinegar 
have been added, and let them lie for an hour, then drain 
them, boil them in stock for ten minutes and let them 
get cold. Handle them carefully as they easily break. 
When sheep's brains are fried for breakfast, the rest of 
the head can be converted into brawn. {See Brawn.) 

Brain Cakes. — Ingredients : The brains of a sheep 
or a calf. Bread crumbs, one egg, pepper, salt and flour, 
half a pound of bacon. Time required: Ten minutes 
to boil the brains. Form into cakes overnight. After 
the usual preliminary treatment mince the brains and 
mix them with double their bulk of well-seasoned bread 
crumbs, with sufficient egg to bind the preparation. 
Form it into cakes and lightly flour them. Fry to a light 
brown, and serve in a hot dish in alternation with rashers 
of toasted bacon. This is a good way of dealing with 
cooked brains left from the previous day. 

Brains, Caifs. — Calf's brains are excellent cooked as 
directed for brains. 

Brains, Fried. — Ingredients: Sheep's,. lamb's, or calPs 
brains, egg and bread crumbs. Time required : A few 
minutes for frying. After the preliminary treatment, 
cut the brains into slices or form them into rounds by 
gentle pressure, then dip in well-beaten egg, and after- 
wards into seasoned bread crumbs. Fry carefully on 
both sides and serve hot. 

Brains Fried in Batter. — Ingredients : Sheep's or 
calfs brains, frying batter (q.v.), parsley. The brains 
can be prepared and the batter made overnight. Time 
required : A few minutes for frying. After the preliminary 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 11 

treatment {see Brains) cut the brains into thin slices. 
Make ready a little frying batter (5^^ Batter, Frying) and 
make some fat in a deep saucepan so hot that it is still. 
Take up the slices of brain one at a time, dip them into 
the batter, take them out singly with a tablespoon, and 
turn the slice of meat with as much batter as can be 
held in the spoon into the boiling fat. Let it remain for 
less than a minute till the ball of batter is lightly browned, 
and do not attempt to fry more than two balls at once. 
Have close at hand a dish covered with kitchen paper, 
place each ball on this when done to free it from grease. 
Take out any little pieces of batter which remain with 
the skimmer, and finish all the slices in the same way. 
Garnish the dish containing the balls with fried parsley 
and serve. 

Brains in White Sauce. — Ingredients : Sheep^s or calf's 
brains. A cupful of good white sauce, two tablespoonfuls 
of crumbs, one spoonful of grated ham. Time required : 
Ten minutes for baking. After the usual preliminary 
treatment chop up the brains and stir the mince into 
double its measure of good white sauce. Put the mixture 
into china souffle cases, sprinkle bread crumbs, finely 
minced ham or grated tongue on the top, and bake in a 
quick oven. {See Sauce, White.) 

Brawn.' — A clever cook can make brawn of almost 
anything ; yet nothing that is not absolutely dainty 
should be put into it. Calf's head, pig's head and feet, 
or ox cheek are suitable for making it. Whatever meat 
is chosen the method of preparation is the same. 

Suppose that brawn is to be made of half a pig's head 
and two pig's feet. Cleanse the meat and let it lie in 
salt for three or four days. Then wash and simmer in 
cold water to cover until the meat is tender and will 



12 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

leave the bones easily. Cut it while hot into neat pieces 
and season with salt and allspice. Put it into a basin, 
pour a breakfastcupful of the liquor in which the head 
was cooked over it, place a weight upon it, and turn out 
when cold. Sometimes slices of hard boiled egg are put, 
when hot, between the layers of meat. 

Breads, Fancy. (See Fancy Breads.) 

Bread Patties, sometimes called Dresden and German 

Patties. — Ingredients : Stale bread, a cupful of milk, an 
egg, bread crumbs, savoury preparation made of the 
remains of cooked fish, poultry or meat, or of whipped 
cream flavoured with shrimp or anchovy paste. Time 
required : Five or six minutes to make hot the mince and 
to heat the patties in the oven. They may be prepared 
overnight. Take the remains of any kind of cooked fish, 
free it from skin and bone and flake it. If scraps of meat 
or poultry are used, remove skin and gristle and mince 
finely. Season well and stir the mince into its measure 
of thick white sauce. Take a slice or more of stale crumb 
of bread two inches thick. Stamp into rounds with 
a pastry cutter about three inches across, or with the 
round top of a flour dredger, and mark a smaller circle 
in the centre of each. Mix a beaten egg with halt 
a pint of milk and a pinch of salt. Put the patties into 
this and let them stand for about an hour or till soaked 
through. Take them up with a slice and let them drain. 
Afterwards either flour them or egg and crumb them, 
turning them with a slice, for they will break if handled. 
Put them into a frying- basket, lower them into hot fat 
and let them cook about six minutes or till brown. Scoop 
out the centre, leaving about half an inch of crust all 
round, fill with the savoury preparation and serve. 

Bread Patties with Sweetbread. {See Sweetbread.) 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 13 

Bread Patties, Cold. — Instead of bread use farthing 
rolls for the patties. Slice off the top, scoop out the 
crumb, put in the savoury mince and serve cold. 

Brill, Fried. (See Fish, Fried.) 

Brown Butter Sauce. {See Sauces.) 

Calf s Liver. {See Chickens' Livers.) 

Carp, Kippered. {See Salmon, Kippered.) 

Chicken. — A chicken may be cooked in various ways 
for breakfast. For a small family it is sometimes con- 
venient to cut the bird in halves and dress one half one 
way and the other half differently on the following 
morning. The flexibility of the end of the breastbone is 
a certain way of determining the age of a chicken. If 
the bone be hard and firm the bird is old, if it be soft 
like gristle the bird is young. 

Chicken, Baked (in imitation of grilling). — Ingredients : 
A chicken, a little butter. Time required : Twenty to 
thirty minutes, according to size. Prepare the bird as 
in Chicken, Broiled {q.v.), lay it in a warm dripping-tin 
and bake it in a moderate oven. Turn it two or three 
times and baste it by rubbing it all over with butter tied 
in muslin each time it is turned. 

Chicken, Broiled. — Ingredients : One chicken, oil or 
butter for basting. Time required : Twenty or thirty 
minutes, according to size. Select a young chicken for broil- 
ing. Unless the bird is quite young it should be partially 
roasted before being grilled. Pick and singe the bird 
and divide it evenly quite through, cleanse it thoroughly, 
cut off the head and neck, and the first joints of the feet, 
wash it quickly in cold water, and be sure to dry it 
perfectly with a napkin. Put the half chicken in good 



14 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 

position, and make it as flat as possible so that the heat 
of the fire may reach every part equally, and that there 
may be no danger of its sprawling in the dish. A little 
while before cooking it oil it all over, or brush it all over 
with butter that has been softened till it runs, put it on a 
gridiron over a clear fire, bones downward, and keep it 
well basted. Turn it three or four times during the pro- 
cess of cooking, and begin to turn as soon as the gravy 
oozes out. Sprinkle with pepper and salt and serve. 
Cook quickly at first and more slowly towards the end. 
Be careful that the flesh is well cooked at the thick 
joints of the wing and Jeg. The bird will be more easily 
cooked in a hanging grill in front of the fire than it 
will be over the fire. This method of cooking a chicken 
is not easy, but when successfully managed it is always 
liked. 

Chicken, Broiled (easy method). — When it is not con- 
venient to grill a chicken in the usual way, proceed as 
follows : Prepare the bird as described above, brush it 
over with oil and put it in a buttered stewpan. Three 
parts cook it and b^te it frequently, then finish it on the 
gridiron or in the oven. 

Chicken's Legs, Devilled. — Ingredients : Cold dressed 
legs of bird, materials for devil mixture. Time required : 
Preliminary preparation overnight. Ten or twelve min- 
utes to broil. Skin the cold dressed legs of the chicken 
overnight, and score the flesh deeply parallel to the bone. 
Make a hot sauce by working together a tablespoonful 
of oil, a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, a 
few drops of anchovy, and if liked a tablespoonful of good 
chutney. Insert this sauce into the scores of the flesh 
and spread it over and about. In the morning grease the 
bars of the gridiron and make them hot, put on the 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 15 

devilled legs, and broil over a clear but not fierce fire, 
turning the legs every minute till the flesh is hot through 
without being either burnt or hardened. Serve very hot. 

Chickens' Livers. — Ingredients : One or two livers, 
pepper, a quarter of a pound of bacon, a little butter 
or oil. Time required : Ten minutes. The livers of 
chickens or turkeys if not wanted for other purposes may 
be used to make a dainty breakfast dish for one or two 
persons. Clean the livers by cutting away the galls, 
wash them, dry them well in a clean cloth and cut each 
liver in two lengthwise. Take a number of very thin 
slices of rather fat bacon of the same shape and size, 
cooked or uncooked. Thread bacon and liver on a 
skewer as closely as possible, and roll them in liquid fat. 
Melt a slice of butter in a frying-pan, lay the skewer con- 
taining the slices in it, put the pan on the fire, and turn 
the skewer round once or twice to secure equal cooking 
and browning. In about ten minutes they will be done. 
Sprinkle the slices with pepper and serve very hot. If 
chickens^ livers cannot be obtained, a slice of calf s liver 
may be treated in the same way. 

Chicken, Pieces of. Devilled. — Ingredients : Cold 
dressed chicken, devil mixture. Time required : Ten 
or twelve minutes. Pieces of dressed chicken can be 
utilised to make a modified " devil " as follows : Trim 
the joints neatly, score the flesh deeply and insert the 
savoury mixture mentioned in Chicken's Legs, Devilled. 
Dip each joint into melted butter, lay the pieces when 
done in a buttered dripping-tin and sprinkle fine even 
bread raspings over th^m. Place them in a quick oven 
till hot through. When it is not convenient to use the 
gridiron, legs and pieces of chicken may also be 
devilled in a stewpan. Divide the remnants into neat 






16 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

and rather small pieces. Score the flesh and insert the 
hot mixture (see Chicken's Legs, Devilled) overnight. In 
the morning melt half an ounce of butter in a shallow 
pan, put in the pieces of chicken and turn them over a 
low fire for ten or twelve minutes until they are hot 
through and dry without being burnt. Serve hot. 

Chicken, Remains of. — See Rabbit, Cold, Re- 
warmed.) 

Chicken, Remains of. Fried in Batter. — Ingredients : 
Cold chicken, marinade, frying batter. Time required : 
Preparation overnight. Less than a minute will cook 
each piece of meat. Cut the remains of cold chicken 
into neat pieces, and lay them overnight in a marinade 
made of an onion, chopped finely, and mixed with a pinch 
of mixed herbs, pepper and salt, two tablespoonfuls of 
oil and one tablespoonful of vinegar. Make also overnight 
some frying batter (see Batter, Frying). In the morning 
drain the pieces of chicken, dip them in batter and fry 
according to the recipe given for frying brains in batter. 

Chicken, Remains of. Minced with Eggs. — Ingredi- 
ents : Cold chicken, stock, milk, butter, flour, one egg 
for each person, chopped parsley, toast. Time required : 
Principal preparation overnight. A very good breakfast 
dish may be made with the fragments of cold cooked 
chicken as follows : Overnight take all the flesh from the 
bones of a cooked chicken left at dinner, cut it into dice, 
and put it away between two plates in a cool place. 
Stew the bones with water and an onion to make stock. 
When good skim away the fat, strain the broth, and 
season it. In the morning melt two ounces of butter in 
a daintily clean saucepan, mix with it one ounce and a 
half of flour to make a smooth paste, and add gradually 
a gill of the chicken stock and a gill of milk. Let the 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 17 

sauce boil for three or four minutes, then put in the 
chicken mince, and set the preparation in a jar sur- 
rounded with boiling water to keep hot until the requisite 
number of eggs have been poached. When all is ready 
put eggs and mince in the middle of a dish, arrange the 
eggs neatly round with triangles of toasted bread be- 
tween the eggs. ' Sprinkle chopped parsley over the eggs 
and serve hot. This dish sounds elaborate, but it can he 
prepared so much overnight that it is not very trouble- 
some. 

Chicken, Remains of, SauW. — Ingredients : Cold 

chicken, four or five rashers of bacon, sauce. Time re- 
quired : Sij^ minutes to fry the chicken. Cut up the 
remains of cold chicken and fry in a gill of boiling oil till 
brown. To make sauce melt half an ounce of butter 
and sprinkle a dessertspoonful of flour into it, stirring 
and beating it well to make a smooth paste. Add gradu- 
ally half a pint of stock and boil well. Last thing add 
a finely shred shalot, five button mushrooms, a squeeze 
of lemon-juice and a tablespoonful of cream. Have 
ready four or five rolls of bacon (see Bacon, Rashers 
OF, Rolled and Baked). Arrange the chicken and rolls 
round a dish,, pour the sauce into the centre and serve. 

Chicken Saut^. — Ingredients : One chicken, three 

ounces of oil, three ounces of butter, shalots, gravy. 

Titne required : Ten minutes to fry the joints of fowl. 

Divide the chicken into ten pieces, that is, two legs, two 

wings, two pinions, two back pieces and two breast pieces. 

The wings should be taken with the muscle belonging to 

them, and cut from the body slantwise. Put in a pan 

equal quantities of oil and butter (about three ounces 

of each). Warm the fat and arrange the pieces of 

chicken in the pan, the legs with the skin downwards. 

2 



18 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

Cook softly over a not too quick fire, and without boiling. 
Turn the wings first, then the remainder. Turn fre- 
quently, but do not stick the fork into the flesh when 
doing so. When turning the legs take up the wings, 
and put them between two plates in the oven ; the legs 
must be taken out last. Cover the whole and put in 
the oven. Fry in the fat two or three shalots sliced 
till yellow without letting them get dark. Arrange in 
pyramid form in a hot dish, with a little gravy if re- 
quired. 

Chicken Saut^ with Chives. — Ingredients: One young 
fowl, a bunch of chives, three ounces of oil, three ounces 
of butter, gravy. Time required : Ten minutes to fry 
the joints of fowl. A young fowl only is suitable for this 
dish and should be cut into six parts, or the legs only 
can be taken. Prepare the chicken and make it quite 
dry, and dredge lightly with flour, then wash thirty 
chives, cut them into thin rings, throw them into a bowl 
containing boiling water, let them lie for five minutes, 
drain them and spread them on a cloth. Cook the 
chicken according to the directions given for Chicken 
Saute, and fry the chives separately in a small quantity 
of fat till they are yellow, not brown. Arrange the 
pieces of fowl on a dish, scatter the chives over them 
and serve. 

Chocolate. — Daintily made chocolate is an agreeable 
beverage and very nutritious. The quantity required 
depends upon the quality of the article, and upon the 
degree of thickness approved. Speaking roughly it may 
be said that a stick or square of chocolate, or one ounce, 
would be needed for half a pint of milk or milk and water. 
Two ways of making chocolate are here given : 1. 
Grate the chocolate, stir it into the boiling milk, whisk 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 19 

it briskly and take off the foam as it rises. Continue 
whisking till all is done. 2. Put half a pint of water into 
a daintily clean saucepan, drop into it half a stick of 
chocolate and a lump of sugar, and stir now and again 
until the chocolate is dissolved. As soon as it boils add 
a cup of milk, boil up again and serve. If chocolate is 
kept boiling it becomes indigestible. 

The chocolate of different tnakers varies so much in 
strength that it is well to experiment with one sort until 
it has been ascertained how much chocolate is needed 
for a cup. 

Chops, Mutton, Broiled. — Mutton chops are best 
when broiled, and it is perhaps scarcely necessary to give 
directions for this mode of cooking. The points to re- 
member are that the fire should be clear, the gridiron 
hot, and the portion of meat should be turned every 
minute till done. A chop takes eight to ten minutes 
according to thickness. 

Chops Broiled in a Stewpan.— In the early morning 
it is not possible in every household to broil chops over 
the fire, and when this is the case chops may with care 
be fairly well broiled in a stewpan, according to the fol- 
lowing American recipe. Make the stewpan or saute- 
pan very hot without fat, drop into it the trimmed chop, 
and count ten slowly, turn it, and count again, turn once 
more and leave it for about a minute, then draw the 
pan to the back and finish slowly. A chop one inch 
thick will be done in from five to seven minutes. If the 
pan is hot enough at first, there will be but a trifling loss 
of gravy or flavour. Season and serve as for broiled 
chops. 

Cod, Creamed. — Ingredients : A cupful of dressed cod 



20 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

broken into flakes, a cupful of white sauce, lemon-juice, 
bread crumbs, seasoning. Time required : Preparation 
overnight. Bake twenty minutes. Take the remains 
of cooked cod. Remove skin and bone and break the 
white flesh into flakes, with two forks. Season well with 
pepper and salt, and sprinkle a few drops of lemon -juice 
over. Procure as much white sauce as there is fish. Mix' 
gently so as not to crush the flakes, pour the preparation 
into a dish that will stand the fire, sift bread crumbs on 
the top, and bake in a hot oven. To make the sauce, 
melt two tablespoon fu Is of butter in a small stewpan, mix 
a tablespoonful of flour smoothly w^ith it, and pour on 
half a pint of milk. Let the sauce boil for tw^o or three 
minutes, stirring it well, season it with salt, pepper and 
a tiny grate of nutmeg. The fish should be sent to table 
in the dish in which it was baked. If liked, the prepara- 
tion can be baked in scallop shells. 

Cod's Roe. — {See Roe.) 

Cod, Slices of. — Ingredients : A piece of the tail-end 
of a good-sized cod, an egg, bread crumbs, seasoning. 
Time required : Preparation overnight. About four 
minutes for frying. Cut the tail-end of cod into slices 
half an inch thick, season them rather liberally with 
pepper and salt. Beat an egg in a plate and turn the 
slices about in the egg, and powder all over with finely- 
sifted bread crumbs, or flour. Fry in a good depth of fat, 
and serve. 

Cocoa Made from Nibs. — This beverage is quite unlike 
cocoa made from the soluble powder, and it is much more 
nourishing. When well made it is clear and bright and 
has a peculiar taste to which the palate soon becomes 
accustomed. It is necessary to let it simmer for some 
hours, and in households where it is regularly used a 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 21 

special saucepan should be set apart for its preparation, 
and this may be kept constantly simmering by the sid^ 
of the stove. 

Allow a teacupful of cocoa nibs for each quart of water. 
Crush the nibs to small pieces under the rolling-pin, soak 
them all night in the requisite quantity of cold water, and 
next day let them simmer gently in the same water for 
six or seven hours. As the water boils away add more to 
keep up the measure. When sufficiently boiled, strain 
the liquid, let it get cold, skim the fat from the top, and 
the cocoa is ready. For economy's sake the old nibs are 
sometimes boiled again with the fresh ones. The cocoa 
produced is stronger but less bright than would otherwise 
be the case. Cocoa shells are sometimes substituted for 
cocoa nibs. The mode of preparation is the same. 

Cocoa Made from Prepared Powder. — There are many 
sorts of powdered cocoas in the market. When cocoa is 
sold in a packet, directions for making are usually given 
on the label, and these should be followed, especially when 
any special mode of preparation is recommended. When 
no directions are given, the quantity of cocoa required 
should be mixed to a paste with cold water, boiling milk 
or boiling milk and water or boiling water should then 
be poured in gradually with one hand, while the prepara- 
tion is stirred with the other. • Boil- for two minutes. 
Sugar can be added at discretion. 

Coffee. — It is quite easy to make good coffee with the 
proper appliances and materials. These are : a sufficiency 
of freshly roasted and freshly ground coffee berries, boil- 
ing water, and a cafetiere such as is sold by any iron- 
monger. No chicory is needed, indeed if genuine coffee 
is required chicory must not be used. Chicory gives 
brilliancy to the appearance of the beverage produced, 



22 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 

and it saves money, for it gives a semblance of strength 
at a lower price than coffee unadulterated, but it does not 
possess the qualities of true coffee. 

The fragrance of coffee escapes from the berry very 
quickly, and, therefore, as it is rarely possible to have it 
roasted at home in private houses, it is desirable to buy 
it in small quantities, being careful to obtain it in good 
condition, and then to keep it in a canister with a tightly 
fitting lid. If after this the berries are gently heated in 
the oven for a few minutes before being ground, to revive 
the flavour, and if the berries are not ground until wanted, 
the coffee will be everything that could be wished. 

The state of the pot used in making coffee has much 
to do with its excellence. Vessels used for making coffee 
call for most careful attention, and they very soon get 
out of order if neglected. There is an oily property about 
coffee which adheres in spite of rinsing, which clogs the 
holes of the strainer, and not only keeps the coffee from 
running out, but spoils its flavour. It is not enough to 
rinse out the ordinary cafetiere or metal pot every day. 
The vessel should be washed, not merely rinsed with 
boiling water, and the pieces should be taken apart and 
dried separately. If packed away wet and left to dry by 
themselves, they will impart a metallic taste to the liquid. 
Cold water is worse than useless for washing a coffee 
pot, because it sets the oil. Because they can be 
thoroughly cleansed more easily, porcelain cafetieres are 
to be preferred to metal ones. 

Coffee, Quantity of the Product Needed. — The quality 

of this beverage depends very much upon the amount of 
material used. If coffee *' really good" is desired, plenty 
of the ground powder must be used. Ideas differ very 
much as to what the v^ord plenty in this connection implies. 
Thrifty housewives have been known to maintain that a 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 23 

teaspoonful of ground coffee is enough for half a pint of 
water. The usual allowance, however, is a heaped table- 
spoonful of coffee to half a pint of water. Very black 
coffee is sometimes made with a heaped tablespoonful of 
coffee to a quarter of a pint of water, and the Turks, 
we are told, use three tablespoonfuls of coffee for each 
small cup. When, however, it is wished that coffee 
should be really strong, it is better to decrease the 
measure of water rather than to increase largely the 
quantity of coffee used. If too much coffee be put into 
a cafetiere the water does not filter through readily. 
Moreover, no one can drink a large quantity of very 
strong coffee. One way of securing a supply of strong 
coffee is to preserve a little of the beverage should any 
be left from one day to another, and make coffee for the 
second day from a weak solution of coffee and water, 
instead of plain water. We are told that the gargons in 
the French cafes always do this when they can. The 
cold coffee should not, however, be left standing in the 
cafetiere ; it should be drained off, and kept in a glass 
bottle closely stoppered. 

Coffee, Various Ways of Making. — To Make ifi a 

Cafetiere, — Fill the vessel with boiling water, let it stand 
a minute or two, then pour the liquid away. Place the 
approved amount of coffee upon the perforated bottom 
of the upper compartment, put the strainer in its place, 
and pour in gently and gradually as much boiling water 
as is needed. Cover the cafetiere and leave it in a hot 
place until the water has filtered from the upper compart- 
ment into the lower one. If it is to be served in another 
pot, the vessel which is to receive it must be made hot 
with boiling water before the coffee is poured into it. 

Coffee Made in an Ordinary Coffee Kettle, — Measure 
the quantity of coffee to be used. Make it hot in the 



I _ 

24 The Dictionary op Dainty Breakfasts. 

oven to revive the flavour, then put it into the kettle and 
pour the boiling water slowly over it. Let it stand a 
minute or two ; put it on the fire and bring it gently to 
the point of boiling. Take it off^ the fire, pour out a 
cupful of the infusion, and return it to the kettle from a 
good height. Repeat this process twice. Throw a table- 
spoonful of cold water into the coffee, let the kettle 
stand by the side of the fire for three or four minutes, 
strain the beverage through muslin into the vessel from 
which it is to be served, and send it at once to table. 

Coffee, to Make in the Pot from which it is to be 
Served, — Make a small bag of unbleached calico to be 
used as a strainer, and fix it so that it shall be suspended 
in the middle of the cofFee-pot. Allow an ounce of 
ground coffee for each quart of the beverage. Heat the 
coffee, put it into the bag, and pour on boiling water to 
cover the bag entirely. Let the pot stand in a warm 
place for ten minutes, and serve. , , 

Coffee, to Make itp a jfug. — Fill the jug with boiling 
water, let it stand a minute or two, then empty it. For 
a pint of the beverage put two tablespoonfuls of ground 
coffee into the jug, pour the water, which should be 
actually boiling, over it, and stir with a spoon. Cover 
with a cloth pressed into the top, and set the jug on the 
hot plate for five minutes. Have the vessel in which the 
coffee is to be served made hot, lay a piece of muslin 
over it, and pour the coffee gently through the muslin. 

Coffee Made with Chicory, — When it is preferred 
that chicory Should be employed in making coffee, the 
proportions usually taken are from three to four ounces 
of chicory to one pound of coffee. These quantities are, 
however, subject to great variation. An overdose of 
chicory will make coffee undrinkable. 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 25 

Crab, Mock. — {See Mock Crab.) 

Crab Dressed and Served Cold, — Serve the meat of 
two crabs in one shell. Mix the soft creamy part from 
the cart with all the white meat that can be picked from 
the claws, and season if liked with vinegar, oil and pepper, 
but the flesh will look better without any dressing. Put 
the mixture into the shell, garnish with chopped parsley 
and serve on a dish covered with a napkin. 

Croquettes. — {See Rissoles.) 

Cutlets. — Trim loin chops away from the bone until 
there is nothing left but the lean round of meat with 
very little fat. Divide into cutlets about half an inch 
thick, egg and bread crumb these and fry until well 
browned in a little butter. Cutlets thus prepared are 
very dainty for breakfast, and the trimmings need not be 
wasted, they can be utilised separately. 

Curry of Meat, Fish, etc. — Any kind of cooked meat, 
fish, game or poultry, can be cut into small pieces, sim- 
mered for a quarter of an hour in a good curry sauce and 
served for breakfast. 

Curried Prawns. — {See Prawns, Curried.) 

Curry Sauce. — {See Eggs, Curried.) 

Devilled Drumsticks. — {See Pheasant's Legs, 
Devilled.) 

Devilled Meat. — Ingredients : Underdone cooked 
meat, fowl or kidneys. Devil mixture. Time required : 
Preparation overnight. Five or six minutes if grilled ; 
fifteen minutes if made hot in the oven. 

The remains of a joint of beef or mutton which has 
been underdressed may be devilled for breakfast as 



26 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 

follows : Cut thick slices of the underdone meat, and 
make deep gashes on both sides with a sharp knife. Put 
into a plate a teaspoonful of mustard, a tablespoonful of 
oil, a teaspoonful of vinegar, a teaspoonful of Harvey's 
Sauce, a few drops of lemon-juice and a grain of cayenne. 
Work these ingredients smoothly together and rub the 
paste into the meat. Grease and make hot the gridiron, 
lay the meat upon it, put it over a clear fire, and turn the 
slices often that they may get hot through. If more 
convenient a glass of claret can be added and the meat 
and mixture can be made hot in the oven. Serve on a 
hot dish, with maitre d'hotel butter (see MaTtre d'H^tel 
Butter) as a garnish. 

Devilled Toast. — {See Toast, Devilled.) 

Devonshire Stew, — A homely breakfast dish. In- 
gredients : Fragments of mixed dressed vegetables to fill 
a half-pint measure. A herring, salt or fresh, a cupful 
of stock. Time required : A quarter of an hour. 

Take any boiled vegetables there may be in the larder — 
especially potatoes — carrots and turnips, or potatoes alone 
may be used. Cut small and season with pepper and 
salt. Take also one herring which has had the head cut 
ofi^, been boned and cleaned. Melt a slice of dripping in 
a stewpan, and put the various ingredients into it, and 
add a cup of broth to moisten the whole. Shake over the 
fire till the gravy is absorbed, and the stew hot through, 
and serve hot. 

Dormers (Cold Meat). — Ingredients: Fragments of cold 
meat freed from skin and sinew and finely chopped to fill 
half a pint measure, an equal bulk of cold boiled rice, two 
ounces of finely-chopped suet, gravy to make a stiff paste. 
Time required : Preparation overnight. Three or four 
minutes for frying. Mix the ingredients to a stiff paste, 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 27 

form into cakes or rolls and fry in plenty of hot fat. 
Serve either alone or with sauce. 

Dried Haddock. — Time required ^ etc, : According to 
size. Wash the haddock and dry it. Make the gridiron 
hot and grease the bars, lay the fish on it, and grill it from 
six to ten minutes according to the size ; or if preferred 
toast it. Rub a little butter over the surface before send- 
ing it to table, flesh upwards. Or, wash the haddock, put 
it into a pie-dish with boiling water to cover it, lay a plate 
over it, and let it stand by the side of the fire for twenty 
minutes or so according to size, but do not let it lie too 
long in the water or it will be soft and sodden. Drain it, 
spread butter on it, and serve hot. 

Dried Haddock, Remains of. — Pick the flesh from skin 
and bone and break it into flakes. Toss it over the fire 
in a little butter till hot through. Have ready as much 
good fish sauce (see Sauce, Fish) as will cover the fish. 
Put the hot haddock in a dish, pour the sauce hot over it, 
and serve. 

Eggs k Bonne Femme. — higredients : Six eggs, half a 
pint of onion sauce. Time required : Fifteen minutes or 
more to bake the preparation. Sauce to be made over- 
night. The remains of sauce used the day before may 
be employed. Stir the beaten yolks of the eggs into the 
sauce, afterwards add the whisked whites. Butter well 
or oil two large sheets of white paper. Lay these on a 
baking-tin, pour the egg mixture over them, and bake in 
a good oven till set. Turn the preparation upon a hot dish, 
drawing the paper from it, and serve hot. If a cupful of 
brown gravy is available it may be made hot and poured 
round. 

Eggs k I'Aurore. — higredients : A gill of good white 



28 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

sauce, two hard-boiled eggs, a tablespoonful of browned 
bread crumbs, fried bread. Time required : Preparation 
overnight. Ten minutes or so to make everything hot in 
the morning. The remains of sauce used at dinner may 
be taken for this dish, or a little sauce may be made 
specially for the purpose. (See Sauce, White.) Shell the 
eggs, reserve the hard-boiled yolks, and cut the whites 
into dice. Make the sauce hot and stir the whites into 
it. Pour it into a dish, and set it in the oven in a tin with 
hot water round it to make it very hot. Just before send- 
ing it to table sprinkle the bread crumbs upon the top and 
rub the hard-boiled yolks of eggs through a wire sieve over 
it and garnish with croutons and parsley. This dish looks 
very pretty when garnished with slices of tomato. 

Eggs and Anchovy. — Ingredients : Six anchovies, two 
eggs, oil and vinegar, toast. Time required : To boil the 
eggs, ten minutes. Fillet four or six anchovies {see An- 
chovies, To Fillet). Boil also two eggs till hard. Thus 
far the breakfast can be prepared overnight. In the 
morning cut the fillets into very thin strips, arrange them 
on a plate crosswise and put oil and vinegar over them. 
Shell the hard-boiled eggs and cut them into slices. Place 
these round the anchovies and baste them with the dress- 
ing. If a little salad can be put with the fish all the 
better. This dish is merely a relish, but it is tasty and 
generally liked. Sometimes the filleted anchovies and a 
slice of hard-boiled egg are put on small rounds of toast, 
and one round is given to each person. (See also Ancho- 
vies AND Eggs : Anchovies and Egg Toast ; and Eggs 
Buttered, with Anchovy.) 

Eggs and Bacon. — This may be called a " standing 
breakfast dish," but, though popular, it is sometimes 
indifferently cooked. The points to remember are to 
have the bacon cut very thin, less than a quarter of an 



The^ Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 29 

inch in thickness, have the rind cut off, let it be slowly 
cooked and turned frequently in a pan that has been 
made hot before being used. It is better to be toasted 
than fried. The eggs may be poached separately or fried in 
the fat that has run from the bacon. In this case care 
must be taken that the fat is quite free from burn before 
the eggs are slipped into it. {See Eggs, Fried ; Bacon, 
Rashers of, Fried.) 

Eggs and Bacon with White Sdiuce,— Ingredients : 
Eggs, bacon, white sauce, toast, parsley. Time required : 
A>few minutes. Sauce prepared overnight. Poach some 
eggs neatly and lay them on a dish on rounds of toast. 
Have ready and pour over them a little good white sauce. 
{See Sauce, White.) Send small rolls of bacon to table 
on a separate dish. {See Bacon, Rashers of, Rolled and 
Baked.) 

Eggs and Fish. — Ingredients : Four ounces of cooked 
fish, four ounces cooked potatoes, two hard-boiled eggs, 
a gill of milk or cream, an ounce of butter, pepper, salt. 
Time required : Preparation overnight. Ten minutes for 
baking. Free the fish from skin and bone and break it 
into flakes, pass the potatoes through a wire sieve and mix 
the two. Boil two eggs till hard, and cut into slices. Fill a 
buttered pie dish with alternate layers of the ingredients, 
pepper and salt well, and put knobs of butter here and 
there. Moisten with cream or milk, cover closely, and 
bake gently till hot through. 

Eggs and Ham on Toast. — Ingredients : Eggs, cooked 
ham, squares of toast, gravy or cream, a little butter. 
Time required : About a quarter of an hour. Take as 
many squares of fried bread as there are eggs to be 
served, and two ounces of lean ham for each egg. Mince 
the ham, make it hot in a small saucepan with a little 



\ 



\ 



30 The Dictionarv of Dainty Breakfasts. 

butter, and, moisten it with gravy or cream. Lay the 
savoury mixture on the squares of bread, put a poached 
egg on each and serve hot. 

Eggs and Kidneys. — (See Kidnevs anh Eggs.) 

Eggs and Mushrooms. — Ingredients: Eggs, mush- 
rooms, toast, butter, pepper and salt. Time required : ' 
Ten minutes. Take as many squares of toast as there 
are eggs to be served, with half a large mushroom or one 
small one for each square. Skin and clean the mush- 
rooms and mince them coarsely. Melt a slice of butter 
in a stewpan, put in the mushrooms, season with pepper 
and salt and cook gently for seven or eight minutes. 
Poach the eggs, lay them on the toast, pour the mush- 
rooms over and serve hot. !f preferred, the eggs can be 
buttered (see Eggs, Buttered), the cooked mush- 
rooms can be mixed with them, and the preparation 
served on rounds of toast. 

Eggs and Peas, — Ingredients : Cooked peas, eggs, 
butter. Time required : About a quarter of an hour. 
When fresh green peas are left from the previous day's 
dinner, a good dish for breakfast may be made by tossing 
the peas in butter over the Are, and serving them in a 
silver dish, with poached eggs on the top. 

Eggs and Shrimp Sauce. — Ingredients ,■ Three eggs, 
three rounds of toast, two ounces of butter, one ounce of 
flour, half a pint of stock or water, a pint of shrimps, 
anchovy essence. Time required : About a quarter of 
an hour. Take as many squares of fried bread as there 
are eggs to be served. Poach the eggs, trim them neatly, 
lay one on each square and pour shrimp sauce (q.v.) over 
all. 

Eggs au Miroir, — Ingredients .- Eggs, salt, butter. 
Time required : Three minutes. Proceed as for H^s 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 31 

au Plat, but sprinkle salt over the whites only, and pour 
a spoonful of butter melted ©ver the yolks. Cook for one 
minute on the hot stove, then place the dish in the oven 
for a minute and a half, and serve. 

Eggs au Plat, called also Eggs on the Dish. — In- 
gredients : Eggs, a little butter, sometimes for the sake 
of variety a little cream, a knob of bloater paste, or a 
slice of pate. Time required : Four or five minutes. 
Take a small enamelled dish that will stand the fire, and 
that can be sent to table, also one that is of a size to 
hold the required number of eggs together and keep them 
from spreading. Butter the dish well and let it get hot 
in the oven, then break the eggs into it carefully to keep 
the yolks whole. Sprinkle, salt and pepper lightly and 
evenly over them, and set the dish either in the oven or 
on the range in a tin containing boiling water, so that 
the contents can be slowly cooked. This dish will be 
improved if a teaspoonful of thick cream be poured over 
the eggs before cooking. For the sake of variety a knob 
of bloater paste or a small slice of pate de foie gras may 
be put on each egg. 

Eggs, Boiled. — Time required : According to age 
and quality. If there is any doubt about the con- 
dition of an egg it should not be boiled for breakfast. 
What are known as ** shop eggs," purchased in winter, 
are not suitable for the purpose. Eggs that are put into 
boiling water should be quite covered therewith, or they 
will not be equally cooked. Also they should be gently 
cooked, or the shells may crack and the white will 
be tough. The accepted rule that an egg should boil 
for three minutes does not answer for all eggs, fresh 
and stale alike. Eggs that have been laid some days 
need only three minutes, but quite new-laid eggs need 



32 The Dictiqnarv of Dainty Breakfasts, 

four minutes. Bggs with very thin shells are less likely 
to crack in boiling if they are put into cold water and 
brought to the boiling point. When the water boils 
they will be lightly cooked ; if wanted well done they 
should be left in the water off the fire for another minute. 
An excellent way of boiling eggs for breakfast so that they 
shall be well done and hot, yet not overdone, is the 
following. Put enough water into a saucepan to cover 
the eggs freely, and let it fully boil. Lower the eggs 
gently into it, and place the saucepan without the lid on 
the hearth or at the back of the stove, or in some place 
where the water will cease to boil, yet not lose its heat. 
In ten minutes the heat will. have penetrated to the centre 
of the egg, the white will be ** done," yet tender, and the 
yolk will be thick and delicate. Yet unless the tempera- 
ture of the water is raised, the egg will not become hard, 
even though it cannot be served immediately, but has to 
remain longer in the water. 

Eggs, Buttered or Scrambled. — Ingredients : Two 
eggs, an ounce of butter, half a gill of liquid, chopped 
parsley. Time required : About fifteen minutes. Melt 
a slice of butter in a stewpan, and turn into it two 
eggs which have been broken into a basin and beaten 
slightly with half a gill of milk or cream, or half milk 
and half stock. Keep stirring over a gentle heat for a 
couple of minutes or so until the eggs begin to thicken, 
then draw the pan back and continue stirring off the 
fire till the mixture is very lightly set. Have ready a 
slice of hot buttered toast, pour the egg mixture upon 
it, sprinkle a little chopped parsley on the top, and serve 
at once. The chief point in making buttered eggs (an 
excellent breakfast dish, making a pleasant variety from 
boiled eggs) is to see that they are gently cooked, and 
that they are turned out early. If left on the fire 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 33 

too long, they will be hard and leathery. Some house- 
keepers, for the purpose of ensuring gentle cooking, are 
accustomed to cook the eggs in a double boiler, others 
turn the eggs into a basin and back again during the pro- 
cess of cooking. In order to make a change, bloater or 
shrimp paste may be spread thinly on the buttered toast 
before the eggs are poured over it, or a tablespoonful of 
finely minced smoked beef or chopped mushrooms or ham 
which has been made hot by being fried in butter for one 
minute can be mixed with the eggs. It is safer to cook 
buttered eggs in a double boiler than in an omelette pan. 

Eggs, Buttered, and Fines Herbes. — Ingredients : 
Three eggs, a gill of milk, herbs, butter, pepper and 
salt. Time required : A few minutes. Melt an ounce 
of butter in a saucepan ; whisk three eggs, add to 
them a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, a slice of 
shalot, chopped small if liked, a gill of milk, pepper and 
salt. Pour the mixture into the saucepan, and stir over 
a slow fire till the eggs are set, then remove from the fire 
and whisk a minute or two. Serve in a dish with pieces 
of fried bread round. 

Eggs, Buttered, Curried. — Mince half a small onion 
till as fine as sand, then stir it over the fire for a couple 
of minutes till yellow, and mix with it a dessertspoonful 
of curry powder or paste. Let it cool and add three eggs 
and half a gill of cream or milk. Proceed as for buttered 
eggs, serve piled in a hot dish with rice boiled for curry 
round. {See Rice Boiled for Curry ; also Eggs, 
Buttered.) 

Eggs, Buttered, with Anchovy. — Mix a little essence 
of anchovy with the eggs and proceed as for buttered eggs. 

Eggs, Buttered, with PiX6 de Pole Gras.— Spread a 

3 



34 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 

little pate de foie gras upon buttered toast ; pile buttered 
eggs on the top, and pour a little good brown gravy 
around. 

Eggs, Buttered, with Tomatoes. — Allow one ripe 
tomato for each egg. Skin the tomatoes and remove the 
seeds. Melt a slice of butter in an enamelled pan, when 
it crackles put in the tomatoes and stir over the fire till 
tender. Add pepper and salt and the requisite number of 
eggs beaten without milk, and proceed as for buttered 
eggs. Tinned tomatoes may with advantage be used for 
this dish. 

Eggs, Buttered, with Vegetables. — Vegetables left 

from the previous day's dinner may be utilised for break- 
fast and served with buttered eggs. Mince the vegetables 
or break them up neatly, season with pepper and salt and 
make them hot by tossing them over the fire with a little 
butter. Spread them on buttered toast and pile buttered 
eggs upon them. Serve hot. {See Eggs, Buttered.) 

Eggs, Convent (Mrs. Earle). — Ingredients : Four 
eggs, one onion, an ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of flour, 
half a pint of milk, toast, pepper and salt. Time required : 
Ten minutes to boil the eggs. Boil four eggs for ten 
minutes ; put them in cold water. Peel and slice thinly 
one onion. Put into a frying-pan one ounce qf butter : 
when melted add the onion and fry white. Then add a 
teaspoonful of flour, and mix well. Stir in half a pint of 
milk till it forms a good white sauce, also half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and a quarter ditto of pepper. W^hen nicely 
done add the eggs cut crosswise into six pieces each. 
Toss them in the sauce, and when hot serve on toast. 

Eggs, Curried. — Ingredients : Eggs, curry sauce, 
rice. Time required : Ten minutes to boil the eggs, five 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 35 

minutes to simmer them in the sauce. Boil as many 
eggs as are required for ten minutes and put them into 
cold water. Make some curry sauce. Shell the eggs 
when cold, and simmer them gently either whole or cut 
into halves or round slices in the sauce until hot through, 
but do not let them boil, or they will break. Serve on 
a hot dish with a border of dry rice. (See Rice Boiled for 
Curry.) An easy and excellent way of making the sauce 
is to take a sixpenny tin of Halford's or Cross and 
Blackwell's curry sauce, thin it with a gill of stock and 
use it as directed. One tin would furnish sauce for two 
dishes of moderate size, but when the tin has once 
been opened, the sauce should not be left therein. If 
tinned sauce is not available fry two chopped onions, 
two bay leaves and a sprig of thyme in butter. Add a 
dessertspoonful of curry powder, a dessertspoonful of 
curry paste, a little pepper and salt, and by degrees a 
gill of stock, a gill of milk and a tablespoonful of cream. 
Boil and stir till thick and smooth. Let the sauce cool 
a little and use. 

Eggs, Curried (another way). — Prepare the sauce, 
poach the eggs and pour the sauce over them. Serve 
with rice. 

Eggs, Devilled. — Ingredients : Eggs, toast, sauce. 
Time required : About fifteen minutes. Poach six or 
eight eggs and trim them neatly. Lay each one on a 
round of toast in a dish, and pour over a sauce made as 
follows : Put in a small saucepan a slice of butter and 
half a gill of milk, boil, and add two raw yolks of eggs, 
pepper and salt. Stir the sauce till it thickens, and add 
a teaspoonful of chutney. 

Bggs, Devilled (another way). — Ingredients : Eggs, 
salad, seasoning, garnish. Time required : Ten min- 



36 ' The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

utes to boil the eggs. Boil as many eggs as are required 
till hard. Shell, and when cold cut them into halves the 
short way with a sharp knife. Put the yolks into a bowl, 
and pound them with a little butter. Add salt and cayenne 
and a few drops of essence of anchovy. Cut a little piece 
off the ends of the eggs to make them stand, and fill the 
hollow space with the prepared yolks, piled high. Put the 
eggs on a dish, and arrange watercress or small salad or 
finely shred lettuce or aspic jelly between and around. 
If approved three or four young radishes may be put with 
the green stuff. 

Eggs I Fried. — Ingredients : Eggs, fat, salt and pepper. 
Time required : A minute or two. To be propefly fried 
eggs should be turned into boiling oil or fat. If strained 
each time the oil can be used again and again. Make 
the oil hot in the frying-pan. Break the eggs one by one 
into a cup, and when putting the eggs into the fat turn 
the cup over, to keep the white from spreading. The 
egg can be lifted in a minute when it is set. As each 
egg is done, take it up with a slice and sprinkle salt 
and pepper evenly over it. Fried eggs are often served 
with rashers of bacon. 

Eggs in Brown Butter. — Ingredients .• Eggs, season- 
ing, butter, vinegar. Time required : Five minutes. 
Put an ounce of butter in a frying-pan, and break the 
requisite number of eggs into it, and cook gently till set. 
Or the eggs may be poached. Have ready a hot dish 
and slide the eggs carefully upon it, being careful not to 
break them. Keep them warm, and into the pan used for 
cooking them put two ounces of butter. Put it again 
on the stove for about three minutes till the butter has 
acquired a good brown colour. Stir in two teaspoonfuls 
of vinegar, pour the sauce over the eggs and serve. 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 37 

Eggs in Cases. — Ingredients : Eggs, savoury mixture, 
butter, rounds of fried bread. Time required : A few 
minutes. Small tins or little white china souffle cases 
should be used for this dish. Butter the cases, and 
half fill them with a mixture of bread crumbs, chopped 
ham and chopped parsley. Break an egg into each case 
and poach gently in a saucepan with water just below 
the rim. Serve either in the cases or on small circles 
of fried bread or ham. 

. Eggs in Gravy. — Ingredients : Eggs, gravy, toast. 
Time required : Ten minutes to boil the eggs. Hard- 
boiled eggs are very good cut into thick slices, and made 
hot in as much well-seasoned gravy as will cover them. 
They should be dished on toast. Cooked eggs left from 
the previous day can be utilised thus. If it is necessary 
to make a gravy for this purpose, mince finely a small 
onion and fry it in a tablespoonful of hot fat till yellow. 
Mix a teaspoonful of flour smoothly with it, and add a 
gill of stock, a bay leaf, half a blade of mace, pepper and 
salt. Stir the sauce till it boils, strain it into a clean 
saucepan, put the sliced eggs into it and serve on toast. 

Eggs in Moonshine. — Ingredients : Eggs, grated par- 
mesan. Time required : Three or four minutes. Choose 
a dish which will stand the fire and can be sent to table, 
and not too large. Melt a slice of butter in it, and 
sprinkle grated parmesan over the bottom. Break the 
eggs in carefully, not to injure the yolks, and sprinkle 
grated cheese with pepper and salt on the surface. 
Bake gently till set. 

Eggs in Sunshine, sometimes called Eggs in Purga- 
tory. — Ingredients : Eggs, tomato sauce, toast. Time 
required : Three or four minutes with the sauce made 
beforehand. Take a dish that will §tand the fire, and 



38 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

that is of such a size that the eggs will not spread 
overmuch. Break the eggs in carefully, and let 
them cook gently till set. Have ready a cupful of hot 
tomato sauce. Pour it over the eggs at the last mo- 
ment and serve hot. If preferred the eggs can be 
poached, placed on rounds of hot toast and served with 
the tomato sauce poured over. (See Sauce, Tomato.) 

Eggs on the Dish. — (See Eggs au Plat.) 

Eggs, Poached. — Put into a deep saucepan as much 
water as will freely cover the eggs, a good spoonful of 
salt and a little vinegar. Have the eggs at hand, and 
bring the water to the boil ; when, and only when, the 
water boils, crack the eggs rapidly, handle them carefully 
not to break the yolks, and drop each one just on the 
spot where the water bubbles. At first the egg will cool 
the water a little, but should it begin to boil again draw 
the pan back a little and let it remain until the white 
is set. Have ready some squares or rounds of freshly 
buttered toast, lift up the eggs with a skimmer, and place 
one egg on each. Season each egg with a speck of 
pepper and salt and put a knob of butter on each yolk. 
Serve immediately. Sometimes small rings are used 
to keep the eggs in shape. 

Eggs Poached St la Mattre d'Hotel. — Poach the eggs 
as above, and put a spoonful of maitre d'hotel butter on 
each yolk. 

Eggs, Poached, and Anchovy. — Ingredients: Eggs, 
anchovy paste or filleted anchovy, buttered toast. Time 
required : A few minutes. Spread a little anchovy or 
bloater paste thinly on rounds of buttered toast, and put 
a poached egg on each round. O^* lay a poached egg 
on a round of buttered toast, and put thin strips of 
filleted anchovy crosswise over the egg. 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 39 
Eggs, Poached, and Mince. — Ingredients: Eggs, 

mince toast. Time required : A few minutes, with the 
mince, prepared overnight. Spread a layer of minced 
ham or chicken on a round of toast and place poached 
eggs on the top. 

Eggs, Poached, and Potatoes. — Ingredients: A pint of 
' cold boiled new potatoes, six eggs, a gill of cream, lemon- 
juice, pepper, salt and nutmeg. Time required : A 
quarter of an hour. Take a pint of cold cooked new 
potatoes. Cut them into slices the round way, and put 
them in a saucepan with a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, 
pepper, salt, a little nutmeg and a gill of cream. 
Cover the saucepan closely, and shake it over the fire for 
ten minutes. Turn the potatoes carefully on a hot dish 
not to break the slices, and garnish with poached eggs. 

Eggs, Relish of. — To be spread on hot buttered toast. 
Pound the yolks of hard-boiled eggs to a smooth paste 
with butter. A piece of butter the size of a hazel nut 
will be enough for each yolk. Add two or three drops of 
essence of anchovy as a flavour. 

Eggs, Savoury. — Ingredients : Four eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls of chopped ham, ditto of chopped mushrooms, 
an ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
seasoning, aspic jelly or salad as garnish. Time required : 
Ten minutes to boil the eggs. Boil the eggs for ten 
minutes ; when cold shell them and cut them into halves 
the short way. Take out the yolks, and after mixing them 
with the other ingredients, heat over a gentle fire, stirring 
well. Fill the whites with the preparation and pile it in 
a mound, keeping back a little to* fix the eggs on the 
toast. Garnish prettily. This forcemeat is very tasty 
for sandwiches. 



I 



40 The Dictioi/ary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

Eggs, Scalloped. — Ingredients : Cold boiled potatoes, 
hard-boiled eggs, a little thick white sauce, pepper and 
salt, gravy. Time required : Ten minutes to boil the 
eggs, ten minutes to bake the preparation. Sauce can 
be made and- eggs boiled overnight. Butter some scallop 
shells, and line each one with a layer of smoothly mashed 
potatoes. Cut the hard-boiled eggs into quarters length- 
wise, dip each piece either into melted butter or into a 
little thick sauce, and arrange neatly on the top. Cover 
with another layer of potatoes, and rough the surface 
with a fork. Make hot in the oven and serve with hot 
gravy. 

Eggs, Scrambled. — (5^^ Eggs, Buttered.) 

Egg Toast. — Ingredients : Three slices of toast, an 
egg) a cupful of milk or cream, salt, sugar and powdered 
cinnamon. Time required : An hour to soak the toast, 
ten minutes to fry it. Break an egg on a plate, beat it 
well, add a cupful of milk or cream and a little salt. 
Soak in this mixture three slices of bread till soft 
throughout. Take them up carefully with a slice, lay 
them in a buttered omelette pan, and fry slowly till brightly 
browned. Place a little butter on the upper side of each 
slice, turn and brown that side. Spread a little butter, 
powdered cinnamon and sugar on the slices, put them 
one on another and serve very hot. 

Egg Toast (another way). — Ingredients ; A round of 
buttered toast, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of anchovy 
sauce. Time required : Ten minutes to boil the eggs. 
Take two eggs boiled hard, shell and chop small. Mix 
the mince with half a gill of anchovy sauce (hot), and stir 
over the fire till the preparation is hot through. Pile on 
buttered toast, and serve. 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 41 

Egg Toast (another way). — Ingredients : Two eggs, 
an ounce of butter, toast, anchovy essence, chopped 
capers. Time required : Five minutes. Melt an ounce 
of butter in an omelette pan. When it bubbles stir into 
it briskly two eggs which have been beaten with six drops 
of essence of anchovy and half a teaspoonful of chopped 
capers. In half a minute pour the preparation upon a 
round of freshly made buttered toast, and serve at once. 

Escalopes. ^-(S^^ Scallops.) 
Fancy Breads : — 

General Rules. — The following general condensed in- 
formation for the making of bread and one or two of the 
recipes are from a book which was published in America 
some years ago by the late Mrs. Nitsch. It applies to 
fancy bread as to plain bread. 

To make good bread you need fine, dry, warm flour, 
fresh yeast and dough of the right consistency. 

It is impossible to give the exact proportions of water 
and flour for bread on account of the difi^erence in quality 
of the latter, but as a general rule two pounds of flour to 
a scant pint and a half of water will make a soft dough. 

To each pound of flour allow one scant teaspoonful of 
salt, and two full ones of sugar if compressed yeast is 
used. Sugar may be omitted with slow-working yeast. 

The chief rules to remember are : To have the dough 
just as soft as you can handle. 

To" dry and warm the flour in all but really warm 
weather. 

To dissolve the yeast in water only blood warm. 

Water that seems far from scalding will yet be too hot 
for yeast. 

Knead faithfully, using as little flour as possible. The 
dough can be worked very soft without sticking if you 



42 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 

only just dust your hand for the first few minutes with 
flour. 

Set to rise in a moderately warm place, — about OS*', 
not hotter, — and keep from draught. 

Do not attempt to make bread by any arbitrary rule 
as to time. The only safe rule is to let the dough rise till 
light. Experience will enable you lo judge by touch and 
sight when the dough is ready for the oven. You may, 
however, notice the size of each loaf when you set it to 
rise. It should not be put into the oven until it is double 
that size. You may also tell by lifting a corner of the 
dough : if it looks swelled and is very tender to the touch, 
if it is full of fine little holes like a very fine sponge, it is 
light enough. If these holes are large and coarse it is 
too light, and you must knead it down well and let it rise 
again. But if you do not let it rise to more than double 
the original bulk, the holes will not be too large. 

Hot Cross Buns. — Take three pounds of fine flour, 
mix a pinch of salt with it, and rub in eight ounces of 
good butter. Turn an ounce of German yeast into a 
basin and beat it with a little moist sugar till it is liquid. 
Add a pint and a half of lukewarm water or milk and two 
well-beaten eggs, and mix all with the flour to make a 
batter. Sprinkle a little flour over the dough, coyer the 
dough with a cloth, and let it rige before the fire until it 
is double its original bulk. {See General Rules.) Then 
knead it well with ten ounces of sugar, half a pound of 
washed and dried currants and a little nutmeg. Let the 
dough rise again, divide it into buns, lay these on rows on 
baking-tins with an inch or two between them, cut them 
across on the top with a knife, and let them rise before 
the fire for about ten minutes. Bake in a quick oven. 

Muffins (recipe for home manufacture). — Put a 
pound of flour in a four-quart-sized pan and hollow out 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 43 

the centre. Dissolve half an ounce of yeast and half an 
ounce of baking powder in a little tepid water, and add 
more tepid water gradually to make the quantity up to a 
quart. Thoroughly work the whole well together until 
incorporated. The batter when finished should be of the 
consistency of thick cream, somewhat elastic, and per- 
fectly smooth. Cover the pan with a cloth and keep it 
in a warm temperature to enable it to rise in the pan to 
about twice its original bulk. It must then be quickly 
worked for a minute to reduce it to its original bulk, and 
allowed again to rise. It is then to be baked in the 
following manner. 

Have ready a dozen tin hoops of the size of small 
- saucers, placed on a baking sheet and made quite hot in 
the oven. Pass a paste brush dipped in oiled butter all 
round and about the insidies of the hoops, and immedi- 
ately and while quite hot half fill each with the well- 
risen light batter without stirring it. Push into the oven, 
sharp heat, and when the muffins are very slightly 
coloured underneath, turn them over, remove the tin 
hoops and bake on the other side. The above is M. 
Francatelli's recipe. 

Oatmeal Muffins. — Take a cupful of cooked oatmeal 
(cold oatmeal porridge left over that is thoroughly well 
boiled and rather dry will do for the purpose), and beat 
the oatmeal well with a cupful of milk, added gradually. 
Stir into it a saltspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, a pint of flour that has been well mixed with two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and a lightly beaten egg. 
Add more milk if necessary, a moderately thick batter is 
required. Last of all stir in a tablespoonful of butter 
melted. Beat for half a minute, and bake immediately 
in well-greased pans or muffin rings in a hot oven for half 
an hour. These muffins are to be eaten hot 



44 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

Rolls. — Take as much bread dough as will fill a pint 
basin. (Bakers often sell uncooked dough.) Put with it 
two level teaspoonfuls of sugar, with butter the size of an 
egg and the yolk of an egg. Warm the butter, sugar and 
egg together, by stirring them in a cup set in hot water. 
When thick as cream add them to the bread dough, and 
with your hand work to a smooth soft mass. This will 
not seem easy at first, the dough being so much stifiFer 
than the cream, but a few minutes' manipulation will 
bring it about ; when quite smooth, but much softer than 
the bread dough, set it to rise in a warm, not hot, place, 
in a two-quart bowl. When very light, ** nearly three 
times its first bulk," knead it down well, and let it rise 
again till very light, and this time do not knead it, simply 
push it down with the fingers. It will quickly come up 
again, push it down once more, and when again light 
butter the hands, break the dough into pieces about the 
size of a small egg, and roll well between the buttered 
palms. Form the rolls and put them as done close to- 
gether on a greased baking-tin, and let them rise till 
light. In very cold weather they will take about half an 
hour. Bake in a hot oven. When they begin to brown, 
have ready some syrup and warm water, brush them over 
and put them back in the oven. At this stage handle 
them very lightly, for if they shrink they will not come 
up again. If preferred the egg may be omitted in this 
recipe. 

Rolls Made with Baking Powder. — Rub two ounces 
of butter into a pound of flour, add a small pinch of salt 
and a heaped teaspoonful of baking powder. Stir in 
enough milk to make a stiff smooth elastic dough and do 
not handle this more than is necessary. Divide into 
small balls as quickly as possible, or roll into a paste 
about half an inch thick, cut into oval-shaped pieces and 



7iiR ^Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 45 

wet one edge and fold the other over it, so as to leave the 
under side slightly projecting. Bake immediately on a 
buttered tin in a brisk oven. When half baked brush the 
top with milk. 

Sally Lunns. — By adding a tablespoonful of sugar and 
a little more milk to the ingredients used for tea cakes 
sally lunn mixture will be produced. For these cakes the 
dough should be very soft, too soft to handle, though not 
a batter. Let it rise in the same way, and bake in round 
upright tins or Charlotte Russe moulds. They should be 
an inch and a half to two inches high, and four and a 
half in diameter. 

Scones Made with Baking Powder. — Rub two ounces 
of butter into a pound of flour, Vnd add a small pinch of 
salt and a heaped teaspoonful of baking powder. Stir in 
enough milk to make a stiff, smooth, clastic dough, roll 
this out till about the third of an inch thick, and cut into 
three-cornered pieces, each one of which measures about 
four inches. Bake in a quick oven. 

Scones Made with Sour Milk. — Mix thoroughly a 
pound and a half of flour, a pinch of salt, a heaped tea- 
spoonful of carbonate of soda, and the same of cream of 
tartar. Mix to a light paste with a pint of sour milk, 
knead the dough a little, and make up as in the recipe 
for scones made with baking powder. 

Tea Cakes. — Rub six ounces of butter into two pounds 
of flour which has been mixed with half a teaspoonful of 
salt. Beat two eggs well, mix them with a pint of luke- 
warm milk and a little yeast, either German or ordinary 
yeast. If German yeast is used rather less than an ounce 
will be required. Pour the preparation into the flour to 
make a soft dough, knead well, and let the dough rise to 
double its original bulk. Knead again and divide into ten 



\ ' 



46 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

cakes, put these on a baking sheet, prick them with a 
fork, and let them again rise till very light before the fire. 
Bake the cakes in a quick oven, and on no account turn 
them when baking. 

Twists and Fine Rolls. — Make some dough by follow- 
ing the recipe given for Vienna bread. Take three pieces 
the size of an egg and roll into strips of equal length. 
Pinch the three ends together, and plait the strips one 
over another. Place them on a greased baking-tin, let 
them rise again and bake. 

Vienna Bread. — Take one pound of Vienna flour, one 
pound of best biscuit flour and a pinch of salt. Choose 
a bowl that will hold three times the quantity of flour. 
Rub in two ounces of butter, dissolve an ounce of 
'^erman yeast by mixing it with a spoonful of brown 
sugar and add gradually a pint of lukewarm milk and two 
well-beaten eggs. Knead well till the dough is smooth 
and lithe. When risen to double its original bulk make 
into rolls, horns or twists. 

To make crescents or horns, roll the dough into pieces 
six inches square and a quarter of an inch thick. Each 
square will make two crescents. Cut the squares across 
the middle cornerwise, and roll each one lightly from the 
wide side, by doing which the middle part of the roll will 
be thicker than the ends, then draw the two ends towards 
each other to make a sort of horseshoe. Lay these on a 
floured tin with the point uppermost, and bake in a quick 
oven. 

Fish, Boiled. — All sorts of white fish can be cooked 
thus, and will be excellent and tasty if served hot. 
Fillet the fish, cut it into neat pieces, pepper and salt 
these and lay them in boiling salted water to which two 
or three drops of lemon-juice have been added. Draw 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 47 

the pan back and let the fish simmer for a few minutes 
till done. Lift the fillets with a slice and sprinkle chopped 
parsley on the top. Pour off three parts of the liquid in 
which they were boiled, and 'carefully stir a beaten egg 
into the rest for sauce. The fish will be improved in 
flavour if stock made of the fish bones and trimmings be 
used instead of water. 

Fish Cakes. — Ingredients : One pound of cooked fish, 
one pound of dressed potatoes, two eggs, half a gill of milk, 
pepper and salt. Time required : Three or four minutes 
to fry the cakes after the fat is hot. Both cold fish and 
cold potatoes can be used for this dish ; there should be 
equal weights of both. Break the fish free from skin and 
bone into flakes, and rub the potatoes through a sieve. 
Mix the two and season rather highly with salt and 
cayenne, adding two or three drops of essence of 
anchovy. Put the mixture into a bowl, and make it into 
a stiff paste with the milk, butter and beaten egg. Flour 
the hands lightly. Make the paste into cakes about an 
inch and a half across, and three quarters of an inch 
thick. Use as little flour as possible in doing this. Up 
to this point the cakes can be prepared overnight. In 
the morning brush the cakes with egg, toss them in 
bread crumbs, and if necessary repeat the process a 
second time. If the cakes are not perfectly covered they 
will burst in frying, as they will be in danger of doing 
also if too much flour is used in shaping them. Fry the 
cakes in deep fat in a frying basket. They will be done 
in about three* minutes. Serve garnished with fried 
parsley, and very hot. 

Fish, Cold, Creamed. Ingredients: Half-pint of flaked 
fish^ sauce, seasoning. Time required : About twenty 
minutes for baking. Preparation overnight. Take the 



48 The DicriONARv of Dainty Breakfasts, 

remains of any sort of cooked white fish. Remove bones 
and skin and break the flesh into flakes. Season with 
salt, cayenne, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Pour the 
sauce over the fish, roll both together to mix thoroughly 
without breaking the flakes, arrange on a dish that will 
stand the oven, sprinkle bread crumbs on the top, and 
bake till lightly browned. To make the sauce melt two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, mix a tablespoonful of flour 
smoothly with it and add half a pint of milk, salt and 
cayenne. Boil for three minutes. 

Fish, Cold, Curried. — Ingredients : Remnants of cold 
cooked fish to fill a pint measure, a sixpenny tin of 
Halford's curry sauce, or home-made curry sauce, rice. 
Time : A few minutes to warm the sauce. The fish 
may be prepared and the rice boiled overnight. Divide 
the cold cooked fish into neat pieces and remove the 
bones. Take a tin of Halford's curry sauce, turn the 
contents into a saucepan, add a spoonful or two of stock, 
and make it hot. Put in the fish, and let it get warm 
through and stir gently until the fish is enveloped in a 
thick sauce. Serve on a hot dish with rice boiled for 
curry around. If the tinned sauce is not available melt 
an ounce of butter in a stewpan and mix smoothly with 
it a dessertspoonful of curry paste and the same of curry 
powder, or if this is too hot a dessertspoonful of curry 
paste and the same of flour may be used. Add also half 
a pint of stock, stir the sauce till it boils and season with 
salt and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Remnants of all sorts 
of meat and mixed vegetables can be curried in this way. 

Fish, Cold, " Picked up". — Ingredients : One pound 
of cold dressed white fish, half a pint of white sauce, three 
cold potatoes sliced, three hard-boiled eggs sliced, a 
spoonful or two of milk, pai/sley. Time required : Pre- 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 49 

paration overnight. A few minutes to simmer the fish. 
Take the remains of cold dressed white fish, free from 
skin and bone, and either divide into neat pieces or break 
into flakes. Put as much white sauce as is required 
(half a pint for a pound) into a saucepan with the fish and 
add three cold potatoes sliced and three hard-boiled eggs 
sliced. If too thick add a little milk. Simmer for about 
five minutes, turn upon a hot dish, and sprinkle chopped 
parsley on the surface. The addition of a few picked 
shrimps will convert cold fish rewarmed into a dainty 
dish. 

Fish, Cold, Pie. — Ingredients : Ohe pound of cooked 
fish, six or eight cold potatoes, butter or sauce, seasoning. 
Time required : Half an hour. The remains of cooked 
fish both fresh and dried, made into potato pie, furnish 
a cheap and wholesome breakfast dish. Pick the flesh 
from the bones, remove the skin, season the fish with 
pepper and salt and moisten it slightly with a little butter 
or fish sauce. Put a layer of mashed potatoes at the 
bottom of a pie dish, place the prepared fish on this and 
cover with another layer of potatoes and bake in a 
moderate oven till hot through. If more convenient 
bread crumbs can be employed instead of potatoes. 

Fish, Cold, Potted.— Lift the flesh of the fish from 
the bones, remove the skin and all unsightly portions, 
and pound the flesh till smooth. Put the paste in a jar 
and set it in a saucepan of boiling w^ater. As soon as it 
is hot mix with it butter to moisten it, a little essence of 
anchovy to strengthen the flavour, with pepper and salt if 
required. When almost cold press the preparation into 
small pots, and cover with clarified fat. Fish potted thus 
will keep for some days. 

Fish, Cold, Scalloped. — [See Scalloped Fish.) 

4 



50 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

Fish, Filleted. — Fish that has been filleted is excellent 
for breakfast. To fillet fish make a slit through the flesh 
from the tail to the head and lift it from the bone on both 
sides. 

Fish, Filleted, with Champignons. — Ingredients : 
One pound of any sort of white fish cooked or uncooked, 
a dozen champignons, two eggs, half a pint of sauce. Time 
required: A quarter of an hour. Lift the flesh of the fish 
from the bones in neat pieces and remove the skin. Melt 
an ounce of butter in a saucepan and mix half an ounce 
of flour smoothly with it. Add a gill of milk and a gill of 
water or stock, and stir the sauce till it boils. Put in the 
champignons and let them simmer for a few minutes, 
then put in the fish and simmer till hot through. Just 
before serving take the pan off' the fire and stir in the 
yolks of two eggs lightly beaten. Put the champignons 
in the centre of a hot dish with the fish round, and the 
sauce over all. 

Fish, Fresh, and also Dried and Cured in good con- 
dition are excellent for breakfast. Recipes for dealing 
with the different varieties of fish will be found under 
their distinctive names. It may be remarked here, 
however, that when small whole fish, such as codling, 
perch and haddock, which have been procured the day 
before are kept for breakfast it is not advisable to lay 
the fish directly on ice. When this is done the juices of 
the fish are dissolved by the water which is formed as the 
ice melts, and the delicate flavour is impaired. A better 
way of dealing with it is to open and empty it, wash it 
quickly in cold water and wipe it dry, then pepper it 
and rub vinegar over it and hang it open by the head in 
a cool airy place till morning, or if there is danger of its 
being attacked by flies hang it in a wire safe in a current 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 51 

of air. Even mackerel, the worst keeping fish that we 
have, will remain sweet if treated thus excepting in very 
sultry weather. 

Fish, Fried. — Skin and fillet the fish, and divide it into 
neat pieces convenient for serving. Dip these in egg and 
bread crumbs ; or in flour, egg and flour again ; or in 
batter (see Frying Batter), and fry in hot fat till brown. 
{See Brains Fried in Batter, also Sole, Fillets of, 
Fried.) 

Fish Roes. — {See Roes.) 

Fish, Tainted, to Sweeten. — When the fish is but 
slightly tainted mix a wineglassful of vinegar with two 
of water, pour it over the fish, and rub the parts aff^ected, 
leave it untouched for a few minutes, then wash it in 
two or three waters, cold. If fish is strongly tainted 
burn it. 

Fish Sauces. — {See Sauces.) 

Frying Batter. — Used for kromeskies, fish, etc. Put 
a quarter of a pound of flour, a pinch of salt, three table- 
spoonfuls of salad oil, and a gill of lukewarm water into 
a bowl. Mix smoothly and thoroughly. When batter is 
made without egg, it should be made some hours before 
it is wanted. It may seem to ferment, but it will be all 
right 

Game of various sorts is always acceptable when 
served at breakfast, and it is cooked in the usual way. 
Recipes, therefore, are not necessary. Special recipes 
will be found under their distinctive headings. 

Game Pie. — A well-made game pie is an excellent 
breakfast dish. It may be made either with one sort of 
game or with a mixture of game, such as pheasant, 



52 T^E Dictionary of Daixty Breakfasts. 

grouse, hare and even rabbit. Pheasant and hare mix 
together well. Although rabbit, strictly speaking, is not 
game, what is called game pie is very often made from it. 
A pie of this sort may either be made with a raised crust, 
in a pie-dish covered with an ordinary crust, in a deep 
dish which fits into an outer dish of ornamental ware, or 
in a dish covered with clarified butter. Two or three 
recipes are given. (See also Venison Pasty.) 

Game Pie Made in a Dish and Covered with Pastry. — 

Cut the game into neat joints, take out the larger bones, 
and stew them well with a very little knuckle of veal, an 
onion, a carrot and a head of celery Simmer the bones 
for three or four hours until a strong stock has been 
obtained that will jelly when cold, skim it occasionally, 
and free it from grease. Line the bottom of a deep pie- 
dish with slices of bacon, arrange the joints of the game 
on the top, moisten with stock, and sea^n them well with 
pepper, salt and a sprinkling of herbs. If approved, mush- 
rooms and hard-boiled eggs can be interspersed with the 
other ingredients. Put more slices of bacon on the top, 
cover with pastry, and stick a bone into the centre orna- 
ment. This bone should be removed when the pie is 
baked, and the gravy can be introduced through the hole 
by means of a funnel. Bake in a good oven for three 
hours, and introduce the gravy at the last moment. 

Game Pie Served in an Ornamental Dish. — Many 
epicures are of opinion that a better pie is produced from 
a mixture of game than from one sort of game only. In 
any case the game for a pie should be free from taint. 
Cut the flesh off the bones into neat pieces. Scrape the 
bones, and pound the fragments with half their bulk of 
partially cooked bacon. Season this forcemeat with 
pepper, salt and a pinch of mixed herbs. Stew the 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 53 

bones for a long time to make a small quantity of strong 
stock. Put the pieces of game in a dish, filling the 
cavities with forcemeat. Moisten with stock. Cover 
the dish with a coarse paste of flour and water, and bake 
in a steady oven for three hours. Let the pie get cold, 
remove the crust, place the dish in its ornamental' case, 
pile chopped savoury jelly on the top, and garnish with 
squares of aspic and parsley. 

Game Pie, Economical, Served in Small Game Dishes, 
and Covered with Clarified Butter. — Take a mixture of 
game, hare with one or two rabbits, also good aromatic 
seasoning herbs. Roast the game carefully, basting it 
well, and take care of the dripping. When cold cut the 
meat off^ the bones in neat portions convenient for serving, 
and scrape the bones. Put these bones into, a stockpot 
with the dripping, cold water to cover them, a small 
carrot, a large onion and a bunch of celery. Simmer for 
several hours until the stock is reduced to one fourth, 
and is strong enough to jelly firmly when cold. Whilst 
it is stewing skim it every now and again, and free it 
from grease. Weigh the meat that is to be used, and for 
every pound take a fourth of the weight of calf's liver, 
and half as much fat bacon as liver — supposing there 
to be a half-pound of calf's liver, use a quarter of a pound 
of bacon. Soak the liver in cold water to get rid of the 
blood, and chop also the bacon, a small carrot, and a 
shalot or small onion. Fry all together till the onion is 
tender and the liver cooked ; turn the whole into a 
mortar and pound to a smooth paste. Add a pinch of 
mixed aromatic herbs and press the whole through a wire 
sieve with a wooden spoon. Mix this forcemeat with the 
pieces of game. Season the stock well with salt and 
cayenne, and with it moisten the mixture to a moist pulp. 
Fill some small game pies therewith to the depth of 



54 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 

about four inches, and put these dishes in a hot oven till 
they begin to simmer ; this gets rid of the air bubbles. 
Take them out, press the meat together as closely as 
possible and pour clarified butter on each to the depth of 
a quarter of an inch. Store in a cold place. Game pie 
thus made will keep for a long time. 

Game, Minced, au Gratin. — Ingredients .- Fragments 
of dressed game, an ounce of butter, an ounce of flour, a 
gill of strong stock, a few drops of sherry, two table- 
spoonfuls of bread crumbs. Time required : Preparation 
bieforehand. A quarter of an hour in the morning. Pick 
the meat from the remains of dressed game and mince it. 
Stew the bones to make strong stock. Thus far the 
mince can be prepared overnight. In the morning melt 
an ounce of butter, mix half an ounce of flour smoothly 
with it, add a gill of the stock, and stir the gravy till it 
boils. Put in the minced game with plenty of pepper and 
salt and a few drops of sherry. Have ready some well- 
buttered scallop shells covered with a layer of fine crumbs. 
Pour a small portion of the mince into each, cover with 
bread crumbs, and make hot in the Dutch oven. 

German Sausage is a favourite breakfast relish. It is 
usually cut into slices and served cold, or it may be pre- 
pared as follows. Cut the sausage into thick pieces. Put 
two slices on a piece of toasted or fried bread, then a 
little cooked mushroom trimmed neatly, then a small 
piece of butter. Make hot in the oven, dish, and pour 
tomato sauce over all. Decorate with hard-boiled egg ; 
glaze. 

Glaze. — A small quantity of glaze for immediate use 
may be made by mixing together dissolved Liebig and 
dissolved gelatine to make a liquid jelly. The glaze of 
commerce can be bought in skins by the pound ; it looks 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 55 

like a thick brown sausage. It will keep a long time, 
and when wanted should be melted by being put in ajar 
in a saucepan of warm water, as glue is, and brushed 
while in a liquid state over the meat. 

Grouse. — Time required k Twenty to thirty minutes. 
Let the bird hang as long as possible. Pluck it carefully, 
draw and wipe it, but do not wash it, then truss it like 
a fowl, and roast or bake it. Baste as much as possible. 
Serve on toast with fried bread crumbs. (See also Par- 
tridge, Game.) 

Haddock, Baked. — Ingredients : Thick fresh haddock 
(see Fish, Fresh), sauce. Time required : About twenty 
minutes. Wash the fish, empty it, remove the bone, and 
dry it well. Pepper and salt the inside- and lay it open 
in a well-buttered tin. Pour a tablespoonful of dissolved 
butter over it, cover it with a buttered paper, and stand 
the tin which contains it in a larger one half full of hot 
water. Cook gently for about a quarter of an hour. 
Serve on a hot dish with anchovy, shrimp or egg sauce 
as an accompaniment. 

Haddock, Boiled. — Time required: According to size 
and thickness. A thick piece will need to simmer six 
minutes per pound and six minutes over. Put the fish 
on a strainer and drop it into a pan of boiling salted 
water. Draw the pan back, and simmer gently till done. 
If it cooks quickly it will break. Serve with fish sauce! 

Haddock, Boiled (Scotch recipe). — Ingredients : Had- 
dock, sauce, egg, parsley. Time required : About ten 
minutes to boil the fish. Lift the fillets from a fresh 
haddock, free from bone and skin, and cut them into 
strips about an inch wide. Season them with pepper 
and salt and leave them for a while. Boil the bone, skin, 
etc., in water to make fish stock, and thicken this with a 



56 The Dictionary of Daixtv Brkakfasts, 

little flour. Have a beaten egg and a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley put into a tureen. When the thickened 
sauce is on the point of boiling put the fillets of haddock 
into it and simmer gently till done. Stir a little of the 
sauce into the tureen with the egg and parsley, add the 
fish and serve hot. 

Haddock, Cold, CroQtes of. — Ingredients : Dressed fish, 
a little butter, cream or milk, lemon-juice and seasoning. 
Time required : About fifteen minutes. Free the remains 
of cold dressed haddock, or any white fish, from skin and 
bone, and flake it. Then put it in a stewpan with a little 
butter, cream or milk to moisten it, salt, lemon-juice and 
cayenne to flavour it. Mix all together and warm through. 
Pile the preparation on pieces of fried bread, and decorate 
prettily. 

Haddock, Dried. — {See Dried Haddock.) 

Haddock, Fillets of (Fresh), Baked. — Ingredients : 
Haddock, lemon-juice, seasoning, niaitre d' hotel butteV, 
toast. Time required : About a quarter of an hour. 
Strips of fresh haddock as in the Scottish recipe for 
boiled haddock. Lay the fillets on a baking-tin, season 
with pepper and salt and squeeze lemon-juice over. 
Cover with oiled paper and bake in a moderate oven for 
ten minutes or so. Serve the fillets upon toasted bread 
with a knob of maitre d' hotel butter {see Maitre d'HStel 
Butter) or a little essence of anchovy on each. Put 
in the oven for a minute or two and serve hot. 

Haddock, Fillets of, Fried. — Ingredients : A fresh 
haddock, marinade, flour. Time required : Preparation 
overnight. A few minutes for frying. Cleanse and 
empty the haddock, raise the flesh from the bones in 
fillets, and divide these into neat pieces about three 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 57 

inches long. Lay them in a marinade made of two table- 
spoonfuls of oil, one of vinegar, a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley,, a slice of onion, and a little pepper and salt. 
Leave them all night. In the morning take them up, 
dry them, dip them in flour, and fry in hot fat. Serve 
on a hot dish. 

Haddock, Grilled. — Ingredients : A fresh haddock not 
over large, butter. Time required : A haddock of a size 
that can be grilled whoje will take about a quarter of an 
hour. Empty the fish and remove the bone, pepper and 
salt the haddock inside, and leave it hanging all night in 
an airy larder. In the morning brush dissolved butter 
thickly over it ; lay it skin downwards on the gridiron, 
and cook it over a slow fire. 

Halibut may be cooked according to the recipes given 
for cod. 

Ham and Egg Toast. — Ingredients : A slice of ham 
cooked or uncooked, eggs, parsley, seasoning, toast. 
Time required : Preparation overnight. Ten minutes 
in the morning. Mince finely a slice of ham or the re- 
mains of a piece of boiled ham, and put with it a pinch 
of pepper and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Have 
ready as many neat round pieces of toast as are required 
and butter them well. Sprinkle on the toast first a little 
grated parmesan, and then a spoonful of the savoury 
mince. Lay a poached egg on the top, sprinkle with 
cheese and ham once more, and serve at once. The 
cheese and the mince can be prepared overnight, and 
kept covered in a cool place. If convenient the cheese 
can be omitted. The remains of boiled ham or tongue 
are valuable additions to croquettes, rissoles, and all 
preparations of the sort. A ham bone greatly improves 
the flavour of stock. 



58 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

Ham and Veal, Pressed. — Ingredients : From two to 
three pounds of veal, half as much ham with very little 
fat, seasoning. Time required : Bake about three hours. 
Take a piece of veal from which the bones have been 
removed (the breast, the best end of the neck, and a 
slice from the fillet are all suitable for the purpose), 
Choose a deep pie-dish of moderate size, and cut the 
meat into slices the size of the dish, and about an inch 
thick. Have ready som^ seasoning made of a dessert- 
spoonful of salt, half as much white pepper, and a tea- 
spoonful of powdered mace. Put a wineglassful of stock 
or water at the bottom of the dish, then fill it with 
alternate layers of veal, and of uncooked lean ham, let 
veal form the uppermost and undermost layers, and 
sprinkle a little seasoning on each slice. Put a small 
dish upon the meat to press it down, place a saucer con- 
taining a heavy weight on the top, and bake the meat 
while under pressure till tender. Let it remain un- 
touched till cold, when it can be turned out and served. 

Ham, Devilled. — Slices of cold boiled ham that are not 
too much cooked are sometimes grilled and served hot. 
They should be dipped in dissolved butter or oil until 
coated all over, have curry powder sprinkled over them, 
be broiled over a clear fire, and turned frequently. A 
little devil sauce can be poured under the meat, but 
should not be allowed to moisten the upper surface. 

Ham Omelette. — {See Omelette, Ham.) 

Ham, Piece of, To Boil. — A small ham is never so 
excellent as when boiled whole. When more convenient 
however it can of course be cut in two, or handsome 
portions may be boiled separately. Follow the directions 
given for boiling a ham, and allow half an hour per 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 59 

pound for simmering after the water has reached the 
boiling point. Cover the fatty surface with fine even 
raspings, put it in front of the fire for a few minutes 
that the crumbs may set without becoming much 
browned. 

Ham, Potted. — (See Potted Meats.) 

Ham, Slices of, Broiled. — Slices of uncooked ham 
should be soaked in hot water in a covered vessel for 
half an hour, have the water poured off and be soaked in 
a second water, then laid in cold water for five minutes, 
dried and dipped in oil before being broiled. The fire 
must be clear. Cold boiled ham not too much cooked is 
better for broiling than uncooked ham. It is unnecessary 
to soak dressed ham before broiling it. 

Ham, Slices of. Fried. — Unless freshly cured and not 
dry, also carefully cooked, slices of ham fried in a frying- 
pan will be hard and indigestible. They should be the 
third of an inch thick, the rind cut off, should be placed 
in a warm pan in which a small quantity of butter or 
bacon fat has been made hot, should be fried gently and 
turned constantly. If the frying-pan is old and burnt the 
ham will be spoilt. 

It is to be remembered that ham for frying should be 
nearly half an inch thick. Bacon for frying should be 
cut as thin as possible. 

Ham Toast. {See Toast, Ham or Tongue.) 

Ham, To Boil. — All hams need to be soaked for a while 
before being boiled, the length of time being determined 
by their age and quality. A freshly cured, "green " ham 
would need to lie in water long enough to free it from 
dust and salt and no longer ; a highly salted, hard and 
old ham would need to be soaked a day and a night or 



60 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

even longer, and the water which covered it would have 
to be changed now and again. The majority of hams 
would be sufficiently softened if they were to lie in water 
all night. The drier a ham is, the longer it needs to be 
soaked. 

When taken out of the water a ham should be drained, 
brushed, and, if necessary, trimmed, any rusty blackened 
portions being removed. Unless necessary it is best not 
to cut the surface for fear of letting out the juices of the 
meat. Put the ham into a saucepan and cover it with 
cold water, bring it slowly to the boil, carefully remove 
the scum as it rises, and put with it two onions each one 
stuck with two cloves, a head of celery, a carrot and a 
bunch of herbs. As soon as the stock boils, draw the 
pan back and simmer very gently for the time required 
according to the quality, thickness and weight. A re- 
cently cured ham of moderate size would need to simmer 
twenty minutes per pound ; a large, old, highly salted 
ham would need to simmer half an hour per pound, and 
half an hour over. There is always more danger of a 
ham being overcooked than there is of its being under- 
cooked. If there is fear of mistake a skewer may be 
pushed into the thickest portion of the flesh. If it comes 
out clean the ham is done. A ham that is to be eaten 
cold should have the outer skin removed, then be put 
back into the water in which it was cooked and left till 
quite cold. A superior way of finishing a boiled ham is 
to take it out of the water when three parts cooked, let 
it go cold, and next day put it into the oven till hot 
through. A ham that is finished in the oven has a crisp 
shortness which is generally much approved. 

To garnish a ham for the table either sift fine bread 
raspings over the surface while it is hot, or brush it over 
wMth liquid glaze. After glazing it may, if liked, be 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 61 

further decorated with butter which has been pressed 
through a forcer, or small shapes of vermicelli can be 
dropped upon the glaze at intervals. A ruffle of white 
paper may be put round the knuckle bone. The dish 
containing the ham may be ornamented with firm aspic 
jelly cut into shapes. 

Ham, To Choose a. — Look out for a ham with a 
smooth skin, sweet smell and with the flesh adhering 
firmly to the bone. It is best to probe it with a clean 
knife or skewer, both at the knuckle and at the centre. 
If the implement comes out clean and smelling fresh and 
savoury the ham is good. If the contrary is the case it 
is bad or inferior. 

Hare, Potted. — (5^^ Potted Meats.) 

Hash of Salted Beef with Eggs. — Ingredients : Half 
a pound of cold salt beef, a pint of mashed potatoes, four 
eggs, an ounce of butter, half a gill of stock, an onion, 
parsley. Time required: Preparation overnight. A 
quarter of an hour. Chop finely half a pound of cooked 
salt beef and mix it with a pint of cold mashed potatoes. 
Melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan and in it fry a 
small sliced onion till yellow. Moisten with a gill of 
stock, put in the hash, stir and cook well over the fire 
till hot through. Lay the hash on a hot dish, place three 
poached eggs on the top, and sprinkle chopped parsley 
over all. 

Herrings, Dried. — (See Bloaters.) 

Herrings, Fresh, Boiled. — Ingredients: Fresh herrings, 
sauce-garnish. Time required : About eight minutes. 
Herrings thus cooked are delicate and less rich than 
when fried or broiled. To prepare them wash, scale and 
empty the fish overnight {see Fish, Fresh), and skewer 



62 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 

them in a ring with their tails in their mouths. Lower 
them gently into boiling salted water, draw the pan 
immediately to the side of the fire, and simmer very 
softly till done. They will be cool^ed enough in eight to 
ten minutes, and should be taken up the instant they are 
ready, as even a little overboiling will spoil them. Drain 
and serve 6n a hot dish, garnish with fennel, parsley or 
scraped horseradish and send any of the usual fish sauces 
to table with them. 

Herrings, Fresh, Broiled. — Time required : About a 
quarter of an hour. Herrings cooked thus furnish an 
appetising breakfast dish. Cleanse the fish overnight, and 
either split and bone them or remove the inside through the 
gills without opening. Put half a cupful of best salad 
oil into a dish, and draw the herrings through it, leave 
them for a while, then draw them again through the oil. 
Put them on a gridiron the bars of which have been 
greased and heated, and cook over a slow fire, turning 
them frequently. They will take about a quarter of an 
hour. The roes may be fried and used as a garnish. 
{See Herrings' Roes.) Serve as soon as ready. The 
herrings may either have the juice of a lemon squeezed 
over them, or they may have mustard sauce as an ac- 
companiment. 

Herrings, Fresh, Fried. — Time required : Four or 
five minutes. Cut the heads, tails and fins from a couple 
of fresh herrings, empty and scale them and remove the 
roes and the bone. To accomplish the latter process, take 
the fish in the left hand and press the bone with the 
thumb and finger of the right hand to detach it from its 
position, when it can be readily taken out. Season the 
fish with salt and pepper and flour them. Put in a 
frying-pan as much fat as will cover the herrings ; when 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 63 

quite hot lay them in it, and fry till done. Have ready 
a dish covered with kitchen paper, let the fish drain well 
on this and serve hot. They will probably be cooked in 
four or five minutes, but their condition can easily be 
ascertained from their appearance. Herrings cooked 
thus in a good depth of Ijot fat will be less greasy 
than they would be if cooked in a small portion of fat, 
because the heat will form a crisp unbroken surface, and 
keep the fat from penetrating the flesh, while at the same 
time a roasted appearance and flavour will be developed. 
If liked, of course, the fish can be egged and breaded, but 
will be excellent if simply floured. The roes of the 
herrings after being taken out should be either floured 
or egged and breaded and fried separately, or baked. 
(See Herrings' Roes.) If left inside the fish they will 
keep the heat from crisping the flesh. 

Herrings, Fresh, Pickled or Soused. — Ingredients .- A 
dozen herrings, half a pint of vinegar, pepper and salt. 
Time required : Two hours. This is a popular way of 
preparing fresh herrings. Take a dozen fresh herrings, 
half soft and half hard roes ; scrape, wash and split in 
halves, taking out the bone. Rub each half with salt and 
pepper, roll separately, with the skin outwards, and pack 
the rolls in a stone jar ; one that has had table salt in it 
will be about the right size. Pound the soft roes, and 
put with them half a pint of vinegar, and a gill of water ; 
throw this sauce over the herrings. Cover the jar 
closely and bake in a slow oven for about two hours. 
If the flavour is liked a couple of bay leaves may be laid 
on the top of the fish. 

Herrings, Kippered. — Time required : About ten 
minutes, but the more slowly the kippers are cooked the 
better.* Scald the kippers in boiling water for a second, 



k: 



64 The Dictionary ctf Dainty Breakfasts. 

then drain them. Put a slice of butter and a spoonful 
of water in a frying-pan, lay in the kippers flesh upwards 
and cook as slowly as possible, basting the flesh well with 
the broth. When ready pass a little butter over the fish, 
pepper lightly and serve. 

Herrings' Roes. — Ingredients : Soft roes of herrings, 
vinegar, seasoning, buttered toast, lemon-juice. Titne 
required : A quarter of an hour. The soft roes of fresh 
herrings make a tasty dish apart from the fish. Wash 
the roes well, and simmer till done in vinegar and water 
with salt, pepper and a bay leaf. Drain them, place 
each one on a slice of well-buttered toast, and set them 
in the oven for a minute or two. When very hot, squeeze 
lemon-juice over them, sprinkle chopped parsley on them, 
and serve. Or put the roes in a shallow baking-tin, with a 
little butter, pepper and salt on each, and bake in the oven. 

Hot Cross Buns. — (See Fancy Breads.) 

Kabobs. — Short silver skewers are wanted for this 
dish, but if they are not available wooden or metal 
skewers can be employed, though they should not be 
more than about four inches long. When silver skewers 
are used the savoury morsels can be sent to table on the 
skewer. But if ordinary household skewers are taken, 
the slices of meat, etc., should be simply slipped upon the 
dish. Viands of various sorts can be used for kabobs. 
Small and tender pieces of beef, mutton, veal or poultry, 
and also remains of dressed meat, seasoned highly and 
strung on a skewer in alternation with slices of bacon, 
onion and apple, are excellent prepared thus. The slices 
should be about a quarter of an inch thick, uniform in 
shape and size, and about an inch and a half square. 
They should be daintily seasoned, and left to imbibe the 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 65 

flavour of the seasoning for a couple of hours, after 
which they should be strung on a skewer, wrapped in 
buttered paper, and either baked in the oven, or cooked 
in front of the fire till done. Gurried kabobs are' usually 
stewed in curry sauce, and served with boiled rice round 
the dish. 

Kedgeree of Fish. — To half a pint of fish allow a gill 
of boiled rice, four hard-boiled eggs, two ounces of butter, 
salt and cayenne. Time required : With rice and eggs 
boiled overnight — about a quarter of an hour. Take 
the remains of any sort of cold boiled fish, remove the 
skin, pick the flesh carefully from the bones, and break 
it into flakes. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and put 
in the fish, rice, the whites of the eggs cut small, pepper 
and salt. Stir all over the fire till the preparation is 
very hot, then pile it on a hot dish, rub the yolks of the 
eggs through a wire sieve over the surface, and serve 
very hot. 

Kidney Omelette. — {See Omelette, Kidney.) 

Kidneys. — When we speak of kidneys for breakfast, 
we generally mean sheep's kidneys, or lambs* kidneys. 
Veal kidneys and pigs' kidneys are also available in their 
season, and they can be cooked according to the recipes 
given for sheep's kidneys, regard being given to their 
size. But they are less delicate than sheep's kidneys. 
Dainty eaters usually prefer to have the core removed 
from the kidneys before cooking. Kidneys should always 
be gently cooked, and they should be perfectly fresh. 

Kidneys and Bacon. — Ingredients : Two plump kid- 
neys, a quarter of a pound of bacon, flour, seasoning, 
bacon fat. Time required : About fifteen minutes. 
Trim away the fat from the kidneys and remove the 

skin and core, then cut them into thin slices the round 

5 



66 The Dictionary of Daixty Breakfasts. 

way. Mix on a plate a tablespoonful of flour, a salt- 
spoonful of salt, and half a saltspoonful of pepper. Dip 
each slice into the mixture. Melt a little bacon fat or 
butter m a frying-pan, and put in as many rashers of 
bacon as there are persons to be served. Fry gently in 
the usual way. When the bacon is done, take it up, put 
it on a hot dish which can be sent to table, and lay the 
slices of kidney in the same fat. Turn them when the 
gravy rises on the uppermost side ; in about three 
minutes when the grayy again rises they will be suf- 
ficiently cooked and may be dished with the bacon. 
Pour away most of the fat in the pan, and stir into it a 
little thin flour and water. Stir till it boils, and scrape 
the bottom of the pan to make the gravy brown: Add a 
few drops of liquid browning if required, pour the sauce 
through a strainer over the kidney and serve hot. Fried 
potatoes, cooked tomatoes, spinach and cooked potatoes 
warmed may all be served with the kidneys. 

Kidneys and Bacon a la Brochette. — Ingredients : 
A plump kidney, about three ounces of bacon, dripping. 
Time required : About a quarter of an hour. Skin and 
core a kidney, and divide it into rounds a quarter of an 
inch thick, and take an equal number of rounds of bacon, 
cooked or uncooked, and rather fat. Put bacon and 
kidney rather tightly in alternation on a skewer and push 
them well together. Melt a couple of ounces of clarified 
dripping or butter in a frying-pan, lay in the skewer, and 
cook slowly in a Dutch oven, basting the rounds well 
with the fat. When the meat is cooked on one side turn 
the skewer. Slip the slices upon a hot dish, and serve 
hot. 

Kidneys and Eggs. — Ingredients : Allow two poached 
eggs for each kidney, two tablespoonfuls of brown sauce. 
Time required : About ten minutes. Skin and core the 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 67 

requisite number of sheep's kidneys, cut each one in 
halves lengthwise and broil or stew according to the 
recipes given. Serve with the poached eggs on a hot 
dish, and pour the gravy over all. 

Kidneys and Fried Bread. — Ingredients : Two kidneys, 
four rounds of fried bread, a gill of gravy, seasoning. 
Time required : About twenty minutes. Skin and core 
the kidneys, free them from fat, and split them in halves, 
separating them entirely. Prepare a round of bread for 
each half of kidney. The rounds should be free from 
crust, of uniform shape and size, about four inches 
across, and half an inch thick. Fry these in fat till they 
are brightly browned ; if they can be dpne in deep fat 
they will be cooked the more quickly. Keep them hot. 
Melt a good slice of butter or bacon fat in a frying-pan, 
season the kidneys with pepper and salt, put them in, 
and fry them gently for a few minutes. Do not let them 
be overdone. Dish the pieces of toast in a circle, and 
put a half kidney on each. Pour a little gravy into the 
frying-pan, stir and boil for a minute, and pour through 
a strainer round the kidneys. If there is no gravy, water 
thickened with a little flour may be used instead. 

Kidneys and Mushrooms. — Ingredients : Two or three 
sheep's kidneys, half a pound of mushrooms or two 
dozen champignons, half a gill of stock, flour, butter, 
seasoning, parsley. Time required : About twenty 
minutes. Melt an ounce and a half of butter in a stew- 
pan, throw in the mushrooms, prepared for cooking, and 
sinjmer gently for about ten minutes. Add half a gill 
of stock and the kidneys skinned and cored, and simmer 
again, but on no account quite boil, for five or seven 
minutes. Thicken the gravy with a teaspoonful of flour 
and serve hot. 



SS The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

Kidneys and Mushrooms (another way). — Ingredients : 
A dozen moderate sized mushrooms, three kidneys, half 
a pint of stock, flour, seasoning, lemon-juice, half a gill 
of cream. Time required : About twenty minutes. 
Skin the mushrooms, cut off the stems, rinse them 

• 

quickly, and dry them between the folds of a cloth. 
Skin and core the kidneys, and cut them into rounds 
the short way. Each kidney should furnish about ten 
slices. Brown the kidneys in a little butter, but do not 
cook them, then put them with the mushrooms and half 
a pint of stock into a saucepan, and simmer very gently 
for about a quarter of an hour. If the gravy boil the 
kidneys will be hard. Take the kidneys up, thicken the 
gravy with sl little flour, boil it for a minute or two, 
stirring the while, and season well. Add off the fire a 
little cream and a squeeze of lemon-juice and serve hot. 

Kidneys and Potatoes. — (See Potatoes and Kidneys.) 

Kidneys, Bacon and Liver k la Brochette. — Ingre- 
dients : Two kidneys, a quarter of a pound of bacon, 
two chickens' livers, herbs, seasoning, bread crumbs and 
butter, fried potatoes if liked. Time required : About 
twenty minutes. Prepare kidneys and bacon as in the 
recipe {see Kidneys and Bacon), with two or three 
chickens' livers also cut into rounds. Mix on a plate a 
saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, and 
a pinch of chopped herbs. Dip the slices first into 
melted fat or butter, then into the mixture, and sprinkle 
browned bread crumbs over all. String the rounds on a 
skewer, putting each slice of meat between two rounds 
of bacon, press tightly and cook as in Kidneys and Baaon 
a la Brochette. Serve with fried potatoes. 

Kidneys, Breaded. — Ingredients : Kidneys, oil or 
butter, bread crumbs, toast. Titne required : About 



r 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 69 

eight minutes. Skin and core the kidneys, and cut them 
open very evenly lengthwise, so that they will open like 
a book, but do not separate the halves. Season them 
with salt and pepper, dip them in oil or melte^i butter, 
and immediately into fine even bread crumbs. Run a 
small iron or wooden skewer through the halves of the 
kidneys to keep them flat, threading the skewer twice 
through each kidney under the white part, put them 
on a gridiron, the inside downwards, and broil over a 
moderate fire. Turn when half done. They ought to 
be slightly undercooked. 

Kidneys, Broiled, k la Mattre d'Hotel.— Follow the 
recipe for Kidneys, Breaded, omitting the bread crumbs. 
Have ready some maitre dhotel butter {q.v,). Put half 
an ounce in the centre hollow of each kidney and serve 
immediately. 

Kidneys, Broiled, Whole. — Ingredients : Kidneys, but- 
ter, pepper and salt. Time required: Ten to fifteen 
minutes. Skin the kidneys without cutting them, dip 
them in warm butter, place them on a gridiron over a 
gentle fire and turn them every minute. When the 
gravy begins to run they will be done. 

Kidneys, Curried. — Ingredients : * Three or four kid- 
neys, half a pint of curry sauce. Time required : About 
a quarter of an hour apart from the time needed for 
making the sauce. Provide the curry sauce. Either 
Halford's curry sauce can be used {see Eggs, Curried), 
or sauce can be made specially overnight. In the latter 
case skin and mince three large onions and a tomato. 
Fry them in two ounces of good dripping or butter and 
add half a pint of stock, mixed smoothly with a table- 
spoonful of curry paste and the same of flour. Simmer 
gently for about hs^lf an hour, stir in the juice of a large 



70 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

lemon, and salt if required, and rub the sauce through a 
sieve. In the morning skin, core and slice the kidneys 
very thin ; fry them in hot butter, turning them when 
half done, and put them in the sauce. Stir over the fire 
till hot through, and serve with rice. (See Rice Boiled 
FOR Curry.) • 

Kidneys, Deviiledi — Ingredients : Kidneys, devil mix- 
ture, bread crumbs, butter, maitre d^hotel butter. Time 
required : About eight minutes. Skin and core the 
kidneys, and prepare them as directed for Kidneys, 
Breaded. Broil lightly for one minute on each side. 
Have ready mixed on a plate one teaspoonful of mustard, 
two tablespoonfuls of Worcester sauce, a teaspoonful of 
salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and a pinch of cayenne. 
Roll the kidneys in this, then in bread crumbs, and broil 
for three or four minutes on each side. Serve with 
maitre d'hotel butter poured over all. 

Kidney, Stewed. — Ingredients : Six plump kidneys, 
herb mixture, two ounces of butter, the third of a pint of 
stock, flour, lemon-juice, Harvey's sauce, sippets. Tijne 
required : About twenty minutes. Skin and core six 
fine kidneys, slice them rather thinly, and strew over them 
a large dessertspoonful of minced herbs, of which two 
thirds should be parsley, and the remainder thyme, with 
a liberal seasoning of salt, pepper and cayenne. Melt 
two ounces of butter in a pan, put in the kidneys and 
brown them on both sides. When nearly done, stir 
amongst them a dessertspoonful of flour, and shake them 
well in the pan. Pour in the third of a pint of gravy, 
the juice of half a lemon, and a little Harvey's sauce. 
Bring these to the point of boiling and pour them into a 
dish garnished with fried sippets, or lift out the kidneys 
first ^ give the sauce a boil, and pour it on them- 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 71 

Kidney Toast. — Ingredients : Two sheep's kidneys, 
the yolk of an egg, four rounds of toast, lemon-juice, 
seasoning. Time required : About seven minutes. Skin 
and core two sheep's kidneys, and cut them into small 
pieces. Melt one ounce of butter in a stewpan, boil, then 
add pepper, salt and cayenne. Stir briskly over the fire 
for about five minutes, or until the pieces look cooked, 
then take the pan off the fire, drop in the yolk of an egg 
and mix. Add a few drops of lemon-juice. Spread the 
preparation on buttered toast and serve hot. 

Kromeskies. — Ingredients : Cooked meat, fat bacon, 
frying batter. Time required : Preparation overnight, a 
few minutes in the morning. Kromeskies may be made 
with the remains of any kind of cooked poultry, game, fish, 
shell fish, veal or mutton. Whatever the material used 
the process is the same. Take a small piece of fat bacon, 
which has been boiled and allowed to become quite cold. 
Cut very thin slices about three inches long and two 
inches wide. Cut the cold meat from the bones and dis- 
card all skin and sinewy portions. Mince finely and 
season pleasantly and rather highly. Supposing there is 
a quarter of a pound of meat, melt an ounce of butter in 
a stewpan, mix with it an ounce of flour and add a gill 
of stock. Stir over the fire till smooth and stiff, then add 
the mince. Turn the preparation on a plate and put it 
aside. Mix also the frying batter. {See Frying Batter.) 
TJius far the kromeskies can be prepared overnight. In 
the morning spread a spoonful of the forcemeat upon 
each slice of bacon, roll to the shape of a cork, dip in the 
batter, and fry in hot fat. The kromeskies will not be 
good if the bacon is not cut thin. 

Lamb Pie (a Cornish dish). — Ingredients : A pound 
and a half of lamb, parsley, pastry, milk, a gill of cream. 



72 The Dictionary of Dainty- Breakfasts. 

Take a pound and a half of the neck, loin or breast of 
lamb and cut it into squares, bones and all. Line the 
edges of a pie-dish with pastry and fill it to within an 
inch of the top with alternate layers of parsley leaves 
and meat, and let parsley form the uppermost and under- 
most layers. Season liberally with pepper and salt and 
cover the meat with milk. Lay a good crust on the top 
and bake. Serve cold, and pour a gill of cream in last 
thing. If liked, sliced potatoes can be substituted for 
the parsley. 

Lambs' Sweetbreads. — Ingredients : Equal quantities 
of sweetbread and bacon ; gravy. Time : Preparation 
overnight. Ten to fifteen minutes in the morning. 
When lamb is in season a dainty breakfast dish may be 
made of the sweetbreads cooked with bacon. Wash the 
breads and boil them very gently in flavoured stock till 
firm. Take them up, dry them, trim them neatly, slice 
thin, dust them with flour. Thus far preparation can 
be made overnight. Melt a little bacon fat in a frying- 
pan, fry some rashers of bacon gently in this, and when 
clear take the bacon up and fry the sweetbreads in the 
same fat. A little gravy may be made in the pan if 
liked. 

Liver, Calf's or Chicken's. — (See Chickens' Livers.) 

Lobster, Curried. — (See Prawns, Curried.) This 
dish may be made with tinned lobster of a good brand. 

Mackerel is a fish that very quickly becomes tainted, 
and therefore it is not always available as a breakfast 
dish, excepting in places where it can be bought early 
in the morning. If treated as follows, however, mackerel 
can be kept in good condition all night, that is, if the 
weather is favourable. Cut off^ the heads and split the 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 73 

fish open, wipe them inside, pepper and salt them, then 
hang them open in a cool airy place till morning. 

Mackerel, Baked. — Ingredients : A moderate sized 
mackerel, fish sauce, lemon-juice. Time required : About 
ten minutes. Cleanse the fish, remove the « backbone, 
and divide each side into halves or, if large, into three 
pieces. Trim these evenly. Lay them in a single layer 
in a greased baking-tin, season with pepper and salt, 
squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and cover them 
with buttered paper. Bake until they feel tender 
throughout when pierced with a skewer. Dish them in 
a circle upon a hot dish, and send a little sauce to table 
with them. {See Sauce for Fish.) 

Mackerel, Baked with Forcemeat. — Ingredients : Two 
mackerel, savoury mixture. Time required : Half an 
hour. Cleanse two mackerel, cut off their heads, remove 
the fins and the backbone, and lay them open. Grease 
a baking-tin, and place one fish in it, skin downwards. 
Sprinkle over it a savoury mixture, made of one dessert- 
spoonful of chopped parsley,' a shred of onion finely 
chopped, a pinch of mixed herbs, a tablespoonful of 
bread crumbs, pepper and salt; Having distributed the 
mixture evenly on one fish, lay the other fish prepared 
in the same way on it, skin upwards ; pour two ounces 
of melted dripping over all, cover with an inverted dish, 
and bake in a moderate oven, basting occasionally, till 
they can be pierced easily, Serve on a hot dish. 

Mackerel, Broiled. — Ingredients : A moderate sized 
fresh mackerel with a soft roe, butter or bacon fat, 
maitre d'hotel butter. Time required : Fully twenty 
minutes. Empty and open the fish and hang in a cool 
airy place. In the morning melt a little butter or bacon 
fat and draw the mackerel through it till coated all over. 



74 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfas^ts, 

Grease the bars of the gridiron, lay the fish on it, and 
cook over a gentle fire. Be sure that the fish is cooked 
slowly ; if quickly done it will be spoilt. Turn frequently, 
and baste every now and again. When done, put maitre 
d'hotel butter inside, and serve hot. A double gridiron 
is the best for this purpose, as frequent turning is neces- 
sary, and the flesh of the mackerel is very delicate. 

Mackerel, Kippered, are much liked by some people ; 
but they are too often hard and dry. 'They should be 
cooked like kippered herrings. 

Mackerel, Pickled. — Ingredients : Any number of 
mackerel, vinegar to cover the fish, seasoning. Tipue 
required : Three hours. Take as much vinegar as will 
cover the fish to be pickled, and for every gill allow a 
shalot, a bay leaf, twenty peppercorns, a bouquet and a 
little salt. Clean and bone the mackerel, remove head 
and tail, and divide into pieces of a convenient size. 
Take a stone jar, put in a few pieces, sprinkle salt 
and a portion of the seasoning upon them, lay in more 
fish, and repeat until the materials are .used. Pour 
vinegar over all, and coyer the jar tightly. Bake in a 
gentle oven for three hours. If turned every day in the 
liquor, and kept in a cool place, mackerel thus prepared 
will keep in good condition five or six days. 

Mackerel, Remains of. Pickled. — Ingredients : Rem- 
nants of cooked mackerel, vinegar, seasoning. A fairly 
good breakfast dish may be made of remnants of cooked 
mackerel. Lift the flesh from the bones in neat fillets, 
put them in a pie dish overnight with a few peppercorns 
and a bay leaf, and cover with pickle made of one part 
of vinegar to two parts of broth. In the morning serve 
with brown bread and butter. 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 75 

Mattre d'Hotel Butter. — Ingredients : Allow a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley and a dessertspoonful of 
lemon-juice to two ounces of butter. Pick parsley 
leaves from the stems, wash and chop finely. After 
chopping, wash a second time by putting the herb in the 
corner of a cloth, dipping it in cold water, and wringing 
it dry. This second washing will remove the objectionable 
acrid taste which belongs to uncooked parsley. Put the 
parsley on a plate with its bulk in fresh butter, a little 
pepper, salt and a few drops of lemon-juice. Work the 
ingredients together with the point of a knife till the 
mixture is smooth and thick like very thick cream, when 
it is ready. If made before it is wanted, keep it in a 
cool place.' If melted it would turn oily, and be spoilt. 

Mattre d'Hotel Sauce. — {See Sauce, Parsley.) 

Meat Cakes. — Ingredients : Remnants of cold meat, 
egg, bread crumbs. Time required : Preparation over- 
night. A few minutes for frying. Mince very finely any 
sort of cold dressed meat or poultry, being careful to 
discard all portions that are not dainty. Add one fourth 
of the bulk in fine bread crumbs. Season agreeably to 
make the preparation tasty, then bind the mixture 
together with a beaten egg. Form into small balls, 
flatten by pressing these on the top, egg, bread crumb 
and fry. • 

Meat, Curried. — {See Eggs, Curried.) Meats must be 
cut into neat pieces, and simmered gently in the curry 
sauce. 

Meat (Underdressed), Grilled. — Ingredients : Frag- 
ments of cooked meat, oil, waz^r^ d^hotel butter. Time re- 
quired : About ten minutes. An acceptable dish for break- 
fast may be made of cold meat underdressed. Cut the meat 



76 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

into neat and thick slices, brush these with oil, lay on a 
gridiron over a clear fire and turn often till hot through. 
Serve on a hot dish, with a knob of maitre d'hotel butter 
{see Maitre d' Hotel Butter) and a squeeze of lemon- 
juice over them. 

Meat, Minced. — Ingredients : Fragments of cooked 
meat, gravy, fried bread, eggs. Time required : Prepara- 
tion overnight. About twenty minutes in the morning. 
Almost any kind of boiled or roast meat, game or poultry 
can be converted into an appetising breakfast dish. Cut 
the meat from the bones, removing skin, gristle and all 
uninviting portions and mince it finely. Season daintily, 
and add, if approved, a mere suspicion of onion chopped 
till it is as fine as sand. Put the preparation into a stew- 
pan with as much gravy as will moisten it, and let it get 
hot through. Toast or fry rounds of bread. Lay a heap 
of the mince on each and serve hot. Mince of this kind 
may be prepared overnight, and in the morning made 
hot in a double pan. It will be all the better for having 
been in the gravy all night. It looks inviting when 
served in the small white porcelain dishes sold for this 
and similar purposes, and a poached egg laid on the top 
is generally approved. 

Meats, Potted. — [See Potted Meats.) 

Mock Crab. — Ingredients : Fragments of dressed fish, 
poultry or meat to weigh half a pound, salad dressing, 
egg. Time required : Preparation overnight. Ten minutes 
in the morning. Take fragments of dressed fish, and 
break the fish into flakes free from skin and bone, or 
mince finely. For half a pound of this mince allow a 
hard-boiled egg, a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of 
white sugar, the same of made mustard, a tablespoonful 
of vinegar, a tablespoonful of $alad oil and half a te^- 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 77 

spoonful of pepper. Rub the yolk of the egg to paste 
with the oil, add the dry ingredients gradually, and lastly 
the vinegar. Serve in a crab shell, or wanting this in 
small cases. 

Mock Oysters. — Ingredients : Six sardines boned and 
skinned, six large Jerusalem artichokes boiled and rubbed 
through a sieve, two tablespoonfuls of cream, one ounce 
of butter, pepper and salt, bread crumbs. * Time required : 
Preparation overnight. Ten minutes in the morning. 
Prepare the ingredients, mix well, put lightly into small 
ramequin cases or oyster shells, sprinkle bread crumbs on 
the top, brown in the oven, and serve hot. 

Mock Cutlets. — Ingredients : Fragments of dressed 
meat or poultry, gravy, eggs and bread crumbs. Time 
required : Preparation overnight. A quarter of an hour 
in the morning. Mince fragments of cooked meat or 
poultry and season agreeably. Moisten the mince with 
a sptoonful or two of thick sauce or gravy, and add the 
yolk of a raw egg. Stir the mixture over a slow fire to 
cook the egg, but do not let it boil. When thick spread 
it upon a dish, making it a quarter of an inch thick, and 
•leave it till cold. Thus far the cutlets can be prepared 
overnight. In the morning cut the paste with a sharp 
knife to the shape of cutlets, egg and bread crumb them 
and fry till brown. 

Muffins. — {See Fancy Breads.) 

Mushrooms, Baked. — Ingredients : A pint of mush- 
rooms, an ounce and a half of butter, pepper and salt. 
Time required : Twenty to thirty minutes. Melt the 
butter in a baking-dish ; put in the mushrooms, peeled 
and trimmed, stalk upwards, with pepper and salt on 
each. Cover closely and bake very gently. Serve on 
toast. 



\ .1 



78 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

Mushrooms, Curried. — Ingredients : Mushrooms, curry 
sauce, rice. Time required : Rice boiled overnight about 
a quarter of an hour. Make as much curry sauce as is 
required for the mushrooms. (For sauce, see Eggs, 
Curried.) Cleanse, peel and trim the mushrooms, sim- 
mer gently till tender, and serve with rice round the dish. 
{See Rice Boiled for Curry.) 

Mushrooms, Fried. — Ingredients : A pint of mushrooms, 
two ounces of butter, fried bread, seasoning. Time 
required,: About a quarter of an hour. Cleanse from 
grit, peel and trim a pint of fine flap mushrooms, and be 
sure that they are fresh. Melt a good slice of butter in 
a large frying-pan or thick saucepan, and when hot put 
in the mushrooms. Shake the pan to keep them from 
sticking, and in three or four minutes sprinkle salt, 
cayenne and a pinch of powdered mace over them and 
let them cook as gently as possible for ten or twelve 
minutes until tender. When cooked, pile on a hot dish 
and garnish with fried bread. 

Mushrooms, Grilled. — Ingredients : Mushrooms, sea- 
soning, butter, oil, toast. Time required : According to 
size and freshness. The fresher and finer they are the 
more quickly they will cook. Take three large mushrooms 
with black gills. Peel and trim them carefully, sprinkle 
pepper and salt on them and lay them in salad oil to 
cover them for about twenty minutes. Drain them, put 
them on a hot gridiron and broil them first on one side 
then on the other. When tender put them on a hot 
dish, lay a knob of butter on each, sprinkle pepper and 
salt over once more, and add a squeeze of lemon -juice. 
Serve with buttered toast. 

Mushrooms, Potted. — Ingredients : Mushrooms, butter. 
Time required : About half an hour. Either flaps or 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 79 

buttons may be prepared thus, and will furnish an 
acceptable breakfast relish. Cut away the stems, and 
without wetting the mushrooms clean them with great 
nicety with a little flannel dipped in salt. Spread them 
on a cloth for ten minutes to dry, and stew them in a 
good thick saucepan. Allow an ounce and a half of 
butter for each pint of mushrooms. First make the 
butter very hot, throw in the mushrooms and let them 
simmer for three or four minutes. Season with salt, 
cayenne and pounded mace, and stew till tender. Drain 
well. When quite cold press into small potting jars, 
pour cool clarified butter over and keep in a cool place. 
If not to be used immediately they should have first 
paper then melted mutton fat poured over the tops. 

Mushrooms, Stewed (in their own juice).— /w- 

gredients : A pint of mushrooms, salt, half a gill of cream 
or butter and gravy, pepper and salt, toast. Time re- 
quired : Preparation overnight. A quarter of an hour. 
Cleanse, peel and trim the mushrooms overnight, and put 
them stalk uppermost in a dish, with a little salt among 
the gills. In the rtiorning put them into a small saucepan 
with the juice that has oozed from them, and simmer 
gently. Add two tablespoonfuls of cream ; if this is not 
to be had take a knob of butter and a spoonful of gravy. 
Put a slice of bread an inch and a quarter thick, which 
has been either fried or toasted and slightly hollowed in 
the centre, on a hot dish, pour the mushrooms over and 
serve hot. 

Mutton Collops. — Ingredients : Underdressed mutton, 
egg, bread crumbs, seasoning, pepper and salt, creamed 
potatoes. Time required : About ten minutes. Cut the 
lean of underdressed roast or boiled mutton into thin 
slices, egg and bread crumb them. Melt a cupful of 



80 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts,  

dripping in the frying-pan. When hot lay in the slices 
of meat gently, and cook slowly till brown. When done 
on one side, turn to the other with a slice. Serve hot 
with creamed potatoes. {See Potatoes, Creamed.) » 

Mutton Pies. — Ingredients ; Underdressed muttpn, 
short pastry, seasoning, gravy. Time required : To be 
made beforehand. Ten minutes to make hot in the morn- 
ing. Trim away fat, skin and sinew from underdressed 
mutton, and mince it finely, season well with pepper and 
salt, and moisten with good gravy ; that found under 
the dripping from a roasted joint is excellent for the pur- 
pose. Line some patty-pans, half fill them with the 
mince, put a lid of pastry on the top and bake. 

Oatmeal Muffins, — {See Fancy Bread.) 

Oatmeal Mush. — Ingredients : Oatmeal, salt, water. 
Time reqtiired : Five hours the day before. Half an hour 
in the morning. To be eaten with cream, sugar and 
baked apples, or with treacle and milk. Put half a cup- 
ful of coarse oatmeal and a little salt into a porridge pan, 
or double boiler, and pour on a pint of boiling water. 
Let it boil for two minutes, then put the upper pan into 
the lower one (already half filled with boiling water) set 
the double pan at the side of the stove and cook for five 
hours. Thus far the mush must be prepared the day 
before it is wanted. In the morning set the double pan 
on the fire and stir it until quite hot. Pour out and 
serve. 

Oatmeal Porridge. — {See Porridge.) 

Omelettes. — These very convenient preparations fur- 
nish an endless variety of wholesome tasty breakfast 
dishes. The following hints for making them may be 
acceptable. One pan should be kept specially for ome- 



The Dictionary, of Dainty Breakfasts. 81 
> 

lettes, and it should not be used for any other purpose. 

This pan should never be washed or touched with water. 

After each time of using it should be wiped out with 

clean white paper, and kept where it will be safe from 

damp and dust. If through inadvertence it should be 

employed in ordinary cooking or wetted it must be 

" doctored" thus. Put a good slice of dripping into the 

pan, and set it on the fire till the fat froths, moving the 

pan about meanwhile, so that the fat may flow equally 

all over. Before it has time to burn pour it off, and rub 

the greasy inside of the pan vigoi:ously with a knob of 

white paper. The ideal omelette pan is shallow with 

sloping sides, and from six to ten inches in diameter. A 

great authority has said that the best omelettes are made 

with six eggs. It is wiser to make two omelettes of six 

eggs rather than one omelette of twelve eggs, because an 

omelette made with a small number of eggs is more 

likely to be successful than one made with a large number 

of eggs. The actual number of eggs used must, however, 

be determined by the number of persons to be served. 

Beginners should not attempt to deal with more than 

four eggs. 

The whites and yolks of eggs for omelettes should be 
thoroughly mixed and rendered light, but should not be 
overbeaten. Eggs overbeaten make a watery omelette. 
Moderate though the beating is, it should not take place 
until the moment before cooking. 

Omelettes require a clear fire and a good heat. 

The distinguishing name of an omelette is determined 
either by the flavouring or by some addition that has been 
made to it. If this addition is of a sort that requires 
cooking, it must be cooked before being added to the 
omelette ; if it is soft and requires little cooking, it must 
be finely shred. Sometimes the distinctive ingredient is 

6 



i 



82 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 

> 

mixed with the eggs, sometimes it is introduced into the 

centre of the omelette. As much butter as will lubricate 

the inside, of the pan thoroughly should be employed, and 

no more. Not until the butter has melted and is on the 

point of beginning to turn brown should the eggs be 

poured in. 

To Make a Simple Omelette, — When the pan is 
buttered all over and quite hot and everything is prepared 
pour the egg mixture into the pan and let it spread all 
over. At once begin to scrape it from the sides and 
bottom, working the butter into it while doing so, and 
remembering that the aim is to keep the egg from stick- 
ing to the pan. Shaking the pan now and again will 
help to keep the preparation free. In a very short time 
it will begin to thicken and get lumpy in parts, but keep 
on scraping it and when it is nearly set all over, but not 
quite, tilt the handle of the pan and let the mixture fall 
to the lower end, thus doubling itself over to make a 
sort of thick cushion. Hold it a few seconds, and as 
soon as it ceases to run, lower the handle of the pan and 
let the omelette roll to the opposite side, slip the knife or 
spoon behind it to prevent its breaking, and keep it as 
thick as possible. Turn it upon a hot dish and serve 
instantly. Experts say that an omelette ought to be 
made and eaten in three minutes. 

OmeletteauxFinesHerbes. — (5^^0melette,Savoury.) 

Omelette, Bread, — Ingredients : Two tablespoonfuls 
of bread crumbs, four eggs, an ounce of butter, pepper 
and salt. Time required : Half an hour. Soak the 
bread crumbs in hot milk, and pour off the milk that is 
not absorbed. Beat the mixture to a paste, add the yolks 
of four eggs, and an ounce of butter, and beat over the 
fire until very hot. Have ready the whites of the eggs. 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 83 

I 

beaten to a froth, mix them in lightly, fry and serve as 
an omelette. 

Omelette, Chicken. — /n^re<^eVw^5; Remnants of chicken, 
eggs, seasoning. Time required : Preparation overnight. 
Five minutes. Mince and season the chicken meat over- 
night and put it between two plates in a cool place. In 
the morning stir the mince into the eggs, before making 
the omelette. 

Omelette, Chickens' Livers. — Ingredients : A set of 
chickens' livers, four eggs, seasoning. Time required : 
Twenty to thirty minutes. Take a set of chickens' livers 
and cut into small pieces. Melt an ounce of butter in a 
shallow pan, put with it a piece of shalot or onion the 
size of a p^a chopped finely, a teaspoonful of chopped 
mushrooms, pepper and salt. Turn the meat over and 
about to prevent burning, fry it till cooked, pour four 
eggs over and finish the omelette in the usual way. 

Omelette, Creamy. — Ingredients : Four eggs, four 
tablespoonfuls of milk or cream, pepper and salt. Time 
required : Five minutes. Mix the ingredients, and make 
the omelette in the usual way. 

Omelette, Good Wife's (an American recipe). — In- 
gredients : One ounce of cold boiled pork cut in dice, two 
tablespoonfuls of crust from a fresh loaf cut in dice, an 
ounce of butter, a cold boiled potato chopped small, six 
eggs, parsley, chives, onion, pepper and salt. Time re- 
quired : Preparation overnight. Six or eight minutes in 
the morning. Fry the minced pork and crust of bread 
in the butter for two minutes. Add the other ingredients, 
stir well with the eggs and cook as an omelette. 

Omelette, Ham. — Ingredients : A tablespoonful of lean 
ham chopped, half an ounce of bacon fat or butter, four 



84 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

eggs. Time required : Ten minutes. Melt the fat and 
fry the ham in it for about two minutes. Have the eggs 
ready, throw them over the ham and finish the omelette 
in the usual way. Sometimes the minced and cooked 
ham flavoured with mustard is sprinkled over the eggs 
just before the omelette is rolled over. 

Occasionally also a thin slice of cooked ham is laid 
between the folds of an omelette. 

Omelette, Kidney. — Ingredients : Two sheep's kidneys, 
an ounce of butter, shalot and mushrooms, a spoonful of 
cream and three eggs, peppier and salt. Time required : 
About ten minutes. Skin and core the kidneys and cut 
into dice or slices. Melt the butter and stew in it a piece 
of shalot and two or three mushrooms chopped small for 
seven or eight minutes. Mix the cream with the eggs, 
make an omelette in the usual way, and put the cooked 
kidney in the centre. Serve hot. 

Omelette, Mock. — Ingredients : One egg, a tablespoon- 
ful of milk or cream, bacon fat, pepper and salt. Time 
required : About five minutes. Sufficient for one person. 
Beat the egg lightly and mix the cream or milk with it. 
Season agreeably and bake in a saucer well greased with 
butter or bacon fat till lightly set. 

Omelette, Savoury or aux Fines Herbes. — Ingredients : 
Four eggs, minced herbs. Time required : About ten 
minutes. Mix four eggs with half a teaspoonful of shalot 
minced till it is as fine as sand, add an even tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Proceed in the usual 
way. 

The green tips of cooked asparagus, a slice of cold 
boiled bacon or salt beef minced and made hot, some 
green peas boiled, fresh oysters bearded and chopped, 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 



85 



lobster meat, sweetbread, sausages, etc., may all be in- 
troduced into omelettes served at breakfast. 

Oysters and Bacon. — Ingredients : Half a dozen 
freshly opened oysters, half a dozen small squares of 
cooked bacon, bread crumbs, sauce. Time required : 
Five or six minutes. Season the oysters and stew them 
in their own liquor for a couple of minutes. Thread on 
a skewer, alternating each oyster with a piece of bacon, 
sprinkle freshly grated bread crumbs over them and broil 
for a minute and a half on each side. Serve with two 
tablespoonfuls of parsley sauce poured over, and a bunch 
of parsley leaves on each side of the dish as a garnish. 

Oysters, Broiled. — Ingredients : Any number' of plump 
fresh oysters, bread crumbs. Tinie required : Two or 
three minutes. Drain the oysters on a cloth and make 
them as dry as possible. Melt a little butter in a plate, 
and season a cupful of fine dry crumbs with pepper and 
salt. Take up each oyster on a fork. Dip first into the 
crumbs, then into the butter and again into the crumbs, 
arrange them in a double broiler with closely fitting wires, 
and broil over a quick fire for about two minutes, turning 
them frequently during the time. They should not be 
rendered dry and hard, but be plump and juicy. 

Oysters, Creamed. — Ingredients : Oysters, white sauce, 
seasoning. Time required : Ten minutes to cook the 
oysters. Open as many oysters as are required, and pour 
a cup of cold water over them to wash them, drain and 
dry them on a cloth, spread them on a dish and season 
with pepper and salt. Make the sauce, and whilst it is 
still warm roll the seasoned oysters in it ; put each one 
into a scallop shell and bake for ten minutes in a hot 
oven. If preferred the oysters can be put in a single 



86 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

layer in a small dish. They will then need to be baked a 
minute or two longer. 

Oysters, Curried. — Ingredients: Oysters, bread crumbs, 
curry sauce, z^* Time required : Preparation overnight. 
A few minutes in the morning. Scald plump, fresh 
oysters in their own broth, drain dry, flour lightly, egg 
and bread crumb them twice overnight. In the morning 
fry in hot fat ; pile in the centre of a dish, and pour hot 
curry sauce round but not over them. If the oysters are 
dry, they will turn brown very quickly. If moist, they 
will be spoilt. (For curry sauce, see Eggs, Curried.) 

Oysters, Fried. — Ingredients : Fresh oysters, salt, 
pepper and butter, toasted sippets. Time required : To 
be accomplished as quickly as possible. Take the oysters 
out of the shells, and spread them on a cloth to drain and 
dry them. Melt a small piece of butter in an omelette 
pan, drop the oysters in one by one and turn each before 
putting in the next. Work quickly. When the pan is 
full shake it a minute, turn the oysters gently into a hot 
dish and garnish with toasted sippets, or with toasted 
rashers of bacon. Season with salt, pepper and a little 
butter and serve very hot. If the butter is not very hot 
when the oysters are put in the pan, or if the business 
is not quickly done, the gravy will escape from the 
oysters and the dish will not be a success. 

Oysters, Mock. — {See Mock Oysters.) 

Oysters, Scalloped. — Ingredients : Any number of 
oysters, bread crumbs, butter, pepper, salt. Time re- 
quired : About fifteen minutes. Scald the oysters in 
their own liquor and beard them neatly. Butter some 
scallop shells and cover the inside with a thin layer of 
fine bread crumbs. Fill them with alternate layers of 
oysters, bread crumbs and fresh butter in bits, moisten 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 87 

with the oyster liquor strained and put a thick smooth 
layer of bread crumbs intermixed with butter on the top. 
Put into a Dutch oven before a clear fire till the surface 
is well browned, and serve hot. 

Oysters Stewed in Cream. — Ingredients : As many 
good fresh oysters as will fill a pint measure unshelled. 
A gill of cream ; an ounce of butter ; three-quarters of 
an ounce of flour ; a blade of mace ; a teaspoonful of 
lemon -juice ; half a dozen* peppercorns. Time required : 
Ten minutes. Open and beard the oysters and scald 
them in their o\vn liquor. When plump add the cream 
already thickened with seasoning, and simmer five 
minutes. Do not let the oysters boil, or they will be 
hard. Just before taking the pan from the fire add a 
few drops of lemon-juice. Serve on a hot dish, and 
garnish with toasted sippets. 

Ox Cheek Brawn. — Ingredients : The whole or a 
portion of an ox cheek with (if liked) an ox heel or a 
couple of pig's feet, seasoning. Tipne required : About 
four hours to boil the cheek. Wash the cheek well and 
scald it, then put it into cold salted water to cover it, 
and boil till the bones can be drawn out easily. Take 
away the bones, cut the meat into neat portions, season 
with pepper and salt and put it while hot into a brawn 
tin (see Brawn) and turn out when cold. If liked an ox 
heel or a couple of pig*s feet can be stewed with the 
cheek. 

Partridge, Broiled. — Ingredients : A young and well- 
hung partridge, butter, brown sauce. Time required : 
Fifteen to twenty-five minutes. Split the bird down the 
back, empty it and wipe it inside and out. Season it 
with salt and cayenne, flatten it and skewer it down, 
rub a little fresh butter over it and set it in a hanging 



SS The DicrioxARv of Dai sty Breakfasts. 

grill in front of a clear fire. Baste frequently. Serve 
hot with a little good broiii-n sauce. Pheasant or chicken 
can be treated in the same way. [^ee also Chicken, 
Grilled.; 

Pat^ of various kinds can now be obtained in tins of 
every grocer. They furnish convenient preparations for 
breakfast, and may either be ser\'ed as they are, or cut 
into thin slices and alternated with slices of cold chicken 
or cold turkey. Their acceptability' depends very much 
upon their being prettily dished. 

Patties, German. — {See Bread Patties.) 

Pears, Stewed. — People who like fruit for breakfast 
usually approve highly of stewed pears. The hard " iron " 
pears are excellent for the purpose. In order to get 
them a good colour, it is necessarj- to stew them gently 
a long time. Many good managers put them in a jar 
and set them in the oven after the cooking for the day 
is done, then leave them all night or put them in the 
cool oven for two nights. Ordinary pears should be 
stewed very gently and slowly with water to cover them, 
till tender. Half a pound of sugar and the juice of half 
an orange or lemon should be allowed for each pint of 
water. A saltspoonful of ground cinnamon can also be 
added. 

Pheasant. — (See Partridge.) 

Pheasant's Legs, Devilled. — Ingredients : Pheasant's 
legs, devil mixture, butter. Time required : About a 
quarter of an hour. The legs must be prepared over- 
night. With a sharp knife remove the skin, and score the 
flesh twice crosswise on each side of the bone. Melt two 
ounces of butter and mix with it a dessertspoonful of 
salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, a pinch of cayenne and half 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 89 

a teaspoonful of anchovy essence. Spread this mixture 
on the legs and get it between the scores as much as 
possible, cover and leave till morning. About a quarter 
of an hour before breakfast lay the joints on a gridiron 
which has been rubbed all over with mutton fat and 
made hot and put them over a gentle fire. Broil slowly, 
turning them every minute. When done enough, serve 
immediately on a very hot dish, with hot plates. If 
properly cooked, the flesh though crisp and hot will not 
be at all burnt. A little dissolved butter should be 
poured over them before they are sent to table, and if 
wanted very hot they may be peppered once again at 
the last moment. 

Pickled Pork, — {See Pig's Cheek and Pickled Pork.) 
Pie, Beef or Mutton, to imitate Venison Pasty. — 

Ingredients : Meat, pickle, butter, pastry. Time required : 
For pickling, four or five days ; for baking, four hours. 
Five pounds of boned meat, the undercut of the rump 
of beef, or the loin of mutton boned will answer the 
purpose. Rub two ounces of sugar into the meat, and 
pour on a glass of port and vinegar mixed. Set the 
pickling jar in a cool place, and turn every day for four 
or five days. 

Put the bones and trimmings into a stewpan with 
salt and pepper, barely cover them with water and stew 
till the gravy is strong. Pour it into the pie after cooking. 
Drain and dry the meat, cut into small neat pieces, and 
arrange in a raised crust. (See Pies, Breakfast, Raised 
Pastry for.) Season with salt and cayenne, press the 
meat well, and put a layer of butter over the top to moisten 
it. Bake in a slow oven for four hours. Serve cold. 

Pies, for Breakfast. — Meat pies of sorts are usually 
liked by people accustomed to make hearty breakfasts. 



90 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

The ingredients may be varied to any extent. Rump 
steak and kidney with egg^ mutton, veal and ham, veal 
and sausage or ham, lamb and parsley, game, chicken, 
pigeon with steak and egg, hare, calfs head, venison, 
duck, goose, giblets, pork, are all suitable for the purpose. 
Pies baked in a dish may be served either hot or cold ; 
those baked in a raised crust are served cold, and they 
are usually filled with gravy strong enough to jelly when 
cold. The flavourings must suit the ingredients, but the 
method of procedure is the same. One or two specimen 
recipes are here given (Chicken Pie and Beef Pie to 
Imitate Venison). Directions for making a raised pie 
will be found under Pie, Raised. When a meat pie 
is baked in a dish it is usual to have the crust and 
the strips that line the edges fully half an inch thick. 
{See Pies for Breakfast, Raised Pastry for.) 

Pie for Breakfast, Pastry for. — Put half a pound 
of fine flour on a board with six ounces of good butter, 
and chop the butter in the flour with a knife. A 
dexterous cook who has light cool hands may break (not 
rub) the butter in the flour. Make a well in the centre 
of the flour, and drop into it half a teaspoonful of lemon- 
juice, a pinch of salt and the yolk of an egg. The latter 
may be omitted. Mix the pastry lightly with water ; the 
water should be added gradually and mixed in with the 
fingers. Keep the board and the hand floured to prevent 
the pastry sticking to either. The pastry should not be 
too stifle. Flour the rolling pin, and give the pastry three 
good rolls ; after each roll fold the pastry in halves, and 
turn the rough edges to the front. If the pastry bladders 
or cracks as it is rolled it is a sign of excellence. It 
should be baked in a well-heated but not fierce oven. 
When the pastry is done, the pie should be put in the 
top or cooler part to cook the inside. 



f 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 91 

Pie, Chicken. — Ingredients : Fowls, pastry, seasoning. 
Take one or two fowls according to the size of the dish, 
skin and cut into joints, and season these with salt, white 
pepper and nutmeg or pounded mace. Stew the trimmings 
and giblets in veal stock, or water, with salt, pepper, a blade 
of mace and a pinch of herbs and two or three strips of 
bacon rind to make gravy. Arrange a layer of chicken 
at the bottom of the pie dish, then put in thin slices of 
ham or bacon, and repeat till the dish is full ; then pour 
in the gravy. If a superior pie is desired put the yolks 
of two or three hard-boiled eggs and some forcemeat 
balls in the crevices of the layers. Line the edges of the 
dish with pastry half an inch thick, wet the strip and put 
on a cover half an inch thick. Ornament the pie as 
tastefully as may be and bake in a good oven for an hour 
and a half or two hours. Keep a little of the gravy to 
pour into the pie after it is baked. When convenient, a 
few mushrooms may be chopped small, and strewn over the 
chicken. 

Pie, Lamb. — (See Lamb Pie.) 

Pie, Rabbit.— (S^^ Rabbit Pie.) 

Pie, Raised. Method of Making. — Pies raised by hand 
are daintier than pies baked in a mould. When once 
the business is begun, however, it should be com- 
pleted quickly, whilst the pastry is hot and conse- 
quently workable. On this account it is well to 
collect all materials and make everything ready at the 
beginning. All sorts of raised pies may be made accord- 
ing to the following recipe. The quantities given are 
sufficient for one large or two small pies. Small pies 
are, however, much more easily manipulated than large 
ones. Weigh one pound of flour and put it into a bowl. 
Put a quarter of a pound of lard and half a pint of 



■-» 



92 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

water into a saucepan. When boiling hot pour it into 
the flour and mix with a wooden spoon till it is a firm 
smooth paste. In a minute or two it will be so hot that 
it cannot be handled, but as soon as possible it must 
be taken and shaped, for as it gets cold it becomes 
unworkable. Take one fourth of the quantity, therefore, 
and set it on a plate over a saucepan of hot water to keep 
soft for a while. It is to be used for the lid of the pie. 
Press the remainder into a round or oval lump, and set 
it on the table. Press the centre with the knuckles of 
the right hand to make it hollow. Then put the thumb 
of the right hand into the hole thus made, keep the 
fingers of the same hand outside, and with the left hand 
keep turning the shape round and round, pressing the 
outer wall meanwhile, until the sides are of equal thick- 
ness all round. The object to be aimed at is to get the 
walls thin and yet whole and even. The beginner will* 
probably find that the pastry has a tendency to bag out- 
wards. It should, however, incline inwards, so that it 
shall be narrower at the top than at the bottom. If 
notwithstanding all efforts it will widen out, it will be 
well to fold it over in one or two places, then press the 
folds to make them smooth. If any weak, thin places 
appear, they must be patched as one would patch the 
fabric of a garment by laying a little piece of pastry over 
the thin spot on the inside of the pie and making it fit ; 
this is not an easy operation. If before everything is 
complete the pastry has become so cold and stiff as to be 
unmanageable, it may be put over hot water for a while 
to soften it. Pastry thus softened, however, will not be 
as good as that which is used straight away. 

When the pie is shaped it must be filled to within half 
an inch of the top with the meat moistened and seasoned. 
The piece set aside for the lid must be rolled to the right 




The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 



93 



size, stamped to the shape and laid over the meat, the 
edges being egged and pressed securely to the walls. 
The trimmings may then be rolled rather thinly and used 
for decoration, and it is generally understood that a raised 
pie may be ornamented rather elaborately. It should be 
brushed over with beaten egg and left to become cool 
before being baked. A moderate oven will be required 
for it, and when the gravy boils out it is done. After it 
has become cold the centre ornament may be lifted, and 
gravy made of bones and scraps strong enough to jelly 
when cold may be poured into it through a funnel. 

Pigeons, Stewed. — Ingredients : Three pigeons, four 
ounces of lean bacon, butter, flour, pepper, salt and a 
pint of stock. Time required : Three quarters of an 
hour. This dish may be prepared overnight, and made 
hot in the morning. Truss three plump young pigeons 
with their legs inside. Cut a quarter of a pound of lean 
bacon into small dice. Put these into a stewpan with 
half an ounce of butter and fry over the fire for a few 
seconds. Place the pigeons with them breast downwards, 
and move them around until they are lightly browned all 
over. Take them up, mix a tablespoonful of flour smoothly 
with the bacon and butter, and work to a paste. Add 
gradually a pint of stock, then the pigeons, pepper and 
salt to taste and a bunch of parsley, and simmer gently 
three quarters of an hour. Dish the pigeons on toast, 
pour the sauce over and serve. 

Pig's Cheek or Pickled Pork, To Boil. — Put the meat 
into a saucepan, cover it with cold water, and bring it 
gently to the boil. Draw the pan back, and simmer 
gently for about twenty minutes to the pound, for a thin 
piece of meat, or more if thick. For a pig's cheek, peel 
the skin off when done, shake bread raspings through a 






94 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 

strainer over it, and leave it near the fire for a few 
minutes, that the raspings may set without being much 
browned. These raspings may be made of scraps of 
bread dried in the oven and pounded fine, or they may be 
bought at the baker's for a trifle. Pickled pork should 
be served with the skin on, and without raspings. 

Pig's Feet. — Ingredients : A set of pig's feet, flavours, 
bread crumbs. Time required : Ten or twelve hours. 
Wash a set of feet well in boiling water, and scrape off 
any hairs that may remain. Put them into a saucepan 
with cold water to cover them, and add an onion stuck 
with two cloves, a carrot, six peppercorns,, a bay leaf and 
salt. Simmer gently nearly all day, that is till the bones 
can be drawn out easily; when done enough, split each 
foot in halves, bone them and let them get cold. Melt a 
little butter in a plate, pass each half through it, and 
cover with fine and perfectly dry bread crumbs. Broil 
over a slow fire until hot through and brightly browned. 
Serve cold with brown sauce. If quickly boiled the flesh 
will be hard and leathery; if gently boiled it will be tender 
and gelatinous. The feet of large pigs are better than 
those of small ones for this dish. 

Pork, Pickled. — {See Pig's Cheek or Pickled Pork.) 

Porridge. — Oatmeal porridge as a breakfast dish fur- 
nishes more nourishment for the money than almost any 
other food. It is most valuable when very thoroughly 
cooked. Three methods of preparation are here given. 
The first recipe is recommended. 

No. 1. Put six tablespoonfuls of coarsest oatmeal into 
a double porridge pan with a pinch of salt on the morning 
of the day before the porridge is wanted. Cover it with 
cold water and let it stand until after tea ; pour on about 
a pint of boiling water, stir well, and boil at least four or 



The. Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 95 

five hours, stirring occasionally. Last thing stir once 
more and leave the preparation covered in the pan all 
night. In the morning let it get hot through and it is 
ready. 

No. 2. Put as much water as is likely to be needed 
into a saucepan with a little salt and let the water boil. 
Take &. knife (or spurtle) in the right hand, and some 
Scotch or fine oatmeal in the left hand, and sprinkle 
the meal in gradually, beating briskly all the time. If any 
lumps form draw them to the side of the pan and crush 
them out. When the porridge is sufficiently thick (the 
degree of thickness must be regulated by individual taste) 
draw the pan back a little, put on the lid and let the 
contents simmer gently till wanted. If it can have one 
hour's simmering all the better, but in thousands of 
households it is served when it has simmered ten minutes 
or so. Less oatmeal is needed when it can boil a long 
time. When, done enough, pour into a basin or plate, 
and serve hot with treacle or sugar and milk or cream. 

No. 3. Allow four ounces of oatmeal for a pint of 
water. Put the meal and a pinch of salt into a bowl, 
mix it with the water (cold) gradually. When smooth, 
put it in a pan, bring it to the boil, and boil for at least 
half an hour, stirring frequently. 

Potato Chips. — Peel kidney potatoes into very thin 
slices the round way, throw them as they are done into 
cold water, as this helps to make them brown properly, 
then spread them on a cloth and dry them. Put them 
in a single layer into a frying-basket and plunge them 
into a stewpan one third full of fat fully hot. When 
lightly browned, dry them on kitchen paper and serve. 
If the fat is not very hot the chips will be greasy. 

Potatoes and Bloater with Toast. — (See Toast and 
Potatoes with Bloater.) 



96 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 
Potatoes and Kidneys with Bacon. — Ingredients : 

Three kidneys, six medium-sized potatoes, six thin rashers 
of bacon. Time required : Preparation overnight, and 
about twenty minutes in the morning. Take three kid- 
neys, six moderate-sized potatoes, and six thin rashers of 
bacon. (See Potatoes, Fried.) Meanwhile make a little 
fat hot in the frying-pan and cook the slices of* bacon 
in this very gently, turning them frequently till the fat 
looks clear. Wipe the kidneys, split them in halves 
lengthwise and core them. Fry them also gently in 
the bacon fat, and be careful that they are not over- 
cooked. Put the fried potatoes on a dish, and arrange 
the kidneys and bacon around. This dish is somewhat 
troublesome to prepare, but it is very good when done. 

Potatoes and Salt Pork (an American dish called 
Potatoes au Cochon,) — Ingredients : Two ounces of 
cold boiled salt pork, two large cooked potatoes, a gill 
of cream, pepper, a dessertspoonful of parmesan. Time 
required : About half an hour. Take a slice of cold 
boiled salt fat pork and cut it into small pieces. Cut 
the potatoes into dice, put them into a saucepan, pepper 
them and add cream to cover them. Now add the salt 
pork and simmer gently until the ingredients are blended. 
Pour the preparation into a shallow dish, grate parme- 
san cheese over it, and add a little butter. Make hot and 
lightly brown in the oven, and serve. These quantities 
would be enough for one person. 

Potatoes, Creamed. — Ingredients : Cold boiled pota- 
toes, a little cream, pepper and salt. Tijne required : 
About five minutes. Fragments of cooked potatoes may 
be used for this dish. Cut the potatoes into dice, put 
them into a shallow pan, season with pepper and salt 
and moisten with cream. Stir with a wooden spoon till 
well heated, then serve. 



The JDictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, '97 

Potatoes, Fried. — Prepare the potatoes overnight by 
cutting them into square plugs the length and thickness 
of the little finger ; throw them as they are ready into 
cold water. In the morning dry them on a cloth and 
fry them in a wire basket in a good depth of fat till they 
are soft and lightly browned. 

Potatoes, Hashed. — Ingredients : Half a dozen cold 
boiled potatoes, an ounce and a half of butter, pepper 
and salt. Time required : About eight minutes. Cold 
potatoes hashed are usually much approved at breakfast 
when served as an accompaniment to the meat dishes 
provided. Cut the potatoes into dice. Melt an ounce 
and a half of butter or bacon fat in a frying-pan. Put 
in the potatoes, season with pepper and salt and toss 
over the fire for two minutes, then slide the potatoes to 
the lower part of the pan and let them brown, which they 
will do in about five minutes. Take up the superfluous 
fat in a spoon, and serve the potatoes in a hot dish. 

Potted Meats. — Almost all sorts of cooked meat, 
poultry, game and fish can be satisfactorily used for 
potting, provided always that the meat is of good quality 
and in good condition and is judiciously seasoned. It 
must be cut through, well minced and thoroughly 
pounded. It must be mellowed with butter, added when 
melted, but cold. The quantity of butter needed will 
depend upon the nature of the meat. Very dry meats 
such as salt beef and ham will need at least four ounces 
of butter or fat per pound ; for salted meat fresh butter 
will be better than its own fat, which may be too salt. 
Soft meats will need three ounces of butter to the pound 
or rather less. 

The seasoning of potted meats is a very important 

matter. White meats and game are frequently seasoned 

7 



98 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 

with spices, such as nutmeg or mace, as well as with 
salt and pepper. Dark meats may be improved by the 
addition of a few drops of essence of anchovy to the 
ordinary flavours. The essence should be put in very 
sparingly, there should not be enough to giv^ the sug- 
gestion of anchovy, but simply enough to bring out other 
flavours, and impart that impression of savour which is 
always welcome in preparations of this kind. 

After being minced, pounded and mixed, potted meat 
should be pressed into small potting pans covered to the 
depth of an eighth of an inch with cool clarified butter, 
and kept in a cool dry place. (See Shrimps, Potted ; 
Mushrooms, Potted.) 

Prawns, Curried. — Ingredients : Prawns, curry sauce, 
rice. Time required : An hour if the curry sauce is 
made specially; long enough to make the prawns hot 
through if Halford's curry sauce is used. Prawns are 
in season in April, May, June and July. They are 
scarce and dear in many places, but in some districts 
they are plentiful. The prawn has a long smooth sabre 
projecting from its head, staring eyes fixed at the end of 
stalks, and fine double claws like a lobster. When caught, 
prawns should be thrown into plenty of fast boiling salted 
water, and boiled from seven to ten minutes according 
to size. If not sufficiently boiled, prawns are unwhole- 
some. They are usually sold already boiled. 

Make some good curry sauce. If liked, Captain Hal- 
ford's tinned curry sauce can be used (see Eggs, Curried), 
and then sauce and shelled prawns may be made hot in 
a double boiler and served on a hot dish upon a bed of 
rice boiled for curry. (See Rice Boiled for Gurry.) If 
the sauce is to be made on purpose put a cupful of stock, 
half a blade of mace and a gill of cream into a stewpan 
and thicken it with a teaspoonful of curry powder and 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 99 

the same of curry paste. When thick and smooth lay 
in the prawns, add salt if required, and make all hot 
together. Squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice in and 
serve with boiled rice. Tinned curried prawns are to 
be bought. Crabs and shrimps may be curried in the 
same way. 

Prunes, Stewed, — Wash a pound of prunes in luke- 
warm water, and soak for a quarter of an hour if soft, 
three or four hours if very dry. Look over carefully and 
reject all that are not quite sound (cheap prunes are 
sometimes worm-eaten). Stew very gently in a covered 
saucepan with a pint and a half of water and four ounces 
of white sugar for about two hours, or till plupip, soft 
and tender to the stone and yet whole. The time re- 
quired will depend upon the quality. Just before taking 
them from the fire put in two tablespoonfuls of lemon- 
juice. Sometimes the zest of a lemon and two or three 
inches of stick cinnamon are stewed with the prunes, and 
a glass of claret is added to the syrup at the last. This 
method does not recommend itself so well for breakfast 
as for luncheon or dinner. 

Ptarmigan. — Time required for roasting, twenty to 
twenty-five minutes. Ptarmigan or Norwegian grouse are 
sometimes very abundant and are to be bought at a low 
rate. They are excellent for breakfast ; they need, how- 
ever, to be judiciously chosen, for if they have been fed on 
unsuitable food they have an unpleasant taste. They 
should therefore be bought of a respectable dealer. It is 
said that inferior birds have a slight odour of turpentine, 
and that when cooked they taste of turpentine. Ptarmi- 
gan can be trussed like fowl, and roasted or baked ; or 
they may be dealt with as game. They are very good 
served as a salmi and cooked as follows : Roast a pair 



100 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

of ptarmigan and take them up when slightly under- 
dressed. Let them get cold, then divide them into neat 
joints. Reserve the breasts, the wings and the legs, 
break up the remainder and stew for gravy with three 
quarters of a pint of stock, an onion fried in slices, a 
clove, a pinch of herbs, pepper and salt. Boil gently for 
an hour, then strain the gravy and thicken it with flour. 
Thus far the sahni can be made ready overnight. In the 
morning put the reserved portions into the gravy, let all 
gently heat together and serve. 

Rabbit, Cold, Rewarmed. — Ingredients : Cooked rabbit, 
sauce, bread crumbs. Time required : About half an 
hour. The remains of rabbit which has been boiled and 
served with onion sauce may be made into a tasty dish 
for breakfast as follows : Pick the meat from the bone 
in neat pieces and lay these in a shallow fireproof dish, 
pour the sauce that is left over them, and sprinkle bread 
raspings on the top. Bake till hot through. If there is 
not enough sauce to moisten the meat well, a little stock 
must be added. The remains of dressed chicken may be 
prepared in the same way. 

Rabbit Pie. — Ingredients : A young rabbit, pastry, 
half a pound of bacon, two onions, pepper and salt. If 
liked two hard-boiled eggs and forcemeat balls. Time 
required : Two to three hours. Cut a rabbit into ten or 
twelve pieces, lay these in a pie-dish with the liver and 
half a pound of bacon cut into thin slices free from rind, 
two onions, a sprig of thyme and parsley, pepper and salt 
and enough cold water or stock to moisten but not quite 
cover the meat. Lay a plate on the top of the dish, and 
set it in the oven for about an hour or till the meat is 
three parts cooked. Turn the joints occasionally. When 
done take the dish out of the oven and let it get cold. 



n 



The Dictionary vf Dainty Breakfasts, 101 

]?ut some hard-boiled yolk of egg between the pieces of 
rabbit, and if a few small forcemeat balls are allowed also 
the pie will be so much tastier. Take the fat ofiF the 
gravy, and if there is enough to spare pour off some of 
it, and stew the head, ribs and inferior portions in the 
liquor a while longer to make the gravy strong. It must 
be understood, however, that if the rabbit pie is to be a 
success, there must be plenty of well-seasoned gravy, 
but that the dish must not be over full. Cover with 
pastry in the usual way and bake. 

Rhubarb Stewed and Served Cold. — Champagne or 
forced rhubarb is the best for this dish. Wash the 
stalks and cut them into three-inch lengths. For one 
pound of fruit make a syrup by boiling a quarter of a 
pint of water with six ounces of loaf sugar till the syrup 
is clear. Lay in the rhubarb and simmer very gently till 
it is soft without having fallen. As the pieces become 
tender lift them one by one into a glass dish, and 
when all are done let the syrup boil quickly a few minutes 
and pour it out to cool. Colour it with a few drops of 
cochineal and pour it over the fruit. Early in the season 
the rhubarb need not be peeled, but when it gets old and 
firm the skin must be removed. Stewed rhubarb served 
with cream makes an excellent breakfast dish. 

Rice Boiled for Curry. — Patna rice is the best for this 
purpose. Wash the rice well in three waters to take 
away the raw taste, pick out any discoloured grains there 
may be, and throw the rice into plenty of fast-boiling 
water, slightly salted, and let it boil quickly about fifteen 
minutes or until a grain taken between thumb and finger 
feels tender. It should on no ac5count be allowed to boil 
till it forms a pulp ; it is an object to keep the grains of 
rice separate. When don^ drain in a Qolander ^nd let 



102 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

cold water run on it a minute or two to separate the 
grains. Dry the stewpan inside, put the rice again into 
it, let it stand on the range with a cloth over it instead of 
the lid of the pan and shake it occasionally until hot. 
Pile it round the curry like a wall and serve. 

Rissoles and Croquettes. — Ingredimts : Fragments of 
meat, fish, etc., seasonings, egg, bread crumbs, pastry. 
Time required : Preparation overnight. A few minutes 
in the morning. Fragments of meat, poultry, game, 
fish and shell fish of all varieties can be converted into 
croquettes and rissoles, and they can be made ready for 
frying the day before they are wanted. The method of 
preparation is simple. Supposing there is meat to weigh 
half a pound — first, the meat should be cut into slices, 
and all skin, gristle and portions that are not dainty 
should be discarded ; if a slice of tongue or ham can be 
put with the meat so much the better ; mince finely and 
season rather highly with pepper, salt, a thin slice of 
shalot very finely minced, and a few drops of essence of 
anchovy. Melt an ounce of butter in a small saucepan, 
mix with it one ounce of flour, and beat till smooth. 
Add gradually two tablespoonfuls of stock, milk or water, 
put in the mince, and when the ingredients are well 
blended lift the pan off the fire and €tir in the yolk of an* 
egg. Pour the preparation on a dish and let it get cold. 
To make Croquettes. — Flour the hands, take up a spoon- 
ful of the mixture and roll it gently. into balls or corks. 
Egg and bread crumb these and lay them aside. Be 
very sure that the coating of egg and crumbs is perfect. 
If there is any doubt of this, a second coating may be 
given. In the morning lay the croquettes side by side 
in a frying basket, plunge into hot fat and fry. When 
brown, which will be in rather more than a minute if 
the fat is properly hot, drain on kitchen paper and serve, 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 103 

To make Rissoles. — Roll out a small quantity of good 
pastry to the thickness of an eighth of an inch and divide 
into two parts. Put little balls of the mince upon one 
half, leaving about two inches distance between each. 
Moisten the pastry round each ball with water and cover 
the whole with the unused piece of pastry. Press the 
edges of the pastry closely together round each ball of 
meat, stamp them in rounds with a cutter and fry as the 
croquettes are fried. If liked, the rissoles can be brushed 
over with beaten egg and dipped into bread crumbs or 
crushed vermicelli before being fried. 

Roe. — Very excellent relishing dishes for breakfast 
may be made of the roe of salmon, turbot, cod, haddock, 
carp, mackerel, herring, red mullet and other fish. The 
roe of sturgeon is caviare, largely used as a savoury. 
The roe of the red mullet is botargo. There are two 
sorts of roe, hard roe, or spawn and soft roe or milt. 
Both are used, but it is probable that nine out of every 
ten people would prefer hard to soft roe. The latter 
resembles brains, and may be cooked according to the 
various recipes given. {See Brains.) One or two typical 
recipes for cooking hard roe are here given. 

Roe, Dried and Smoked. — Ingredients : Smoked roe, 
toast, seasoning. Time required : Two or three minutes 
to fry the slices. Choose roe that is brown, not pink, and 
cut it into very thin shavings slantwise, not straight down. 
Make the butter hot, and fry the slices in it till crisp, 
or soak the iroe in stock for a couple of hours. Have 
ready some slices of fried bread, lay the roe on them, 
pepper well and squeeze the juice of a lemon on the roe. 
Anchovy or piquante sauce is sometimes served with 
cooked roe. Smoked roe may also be cut into thin 
shavings and used for making sandwiches. 



• 104 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

Roe, Hard. — Ingredients : A fresh roe, marinade, egg, 
bread crumbs, sauce, brown bread and butter, sliced 
lemon. Time required : Preparation overnight. Five 
minutes for frying. Procure the fresh roe the day before 
it is wanted and boil it in salted water till firm. Let it get 
cold and then cut it into slices a quarter of an inch thick 
and lay these in a marinade made of a dessertspoonful of 
vinegar, a little pepper, salt and mixed spice. Leave until 
next day and turn the slices once or twice. Drain, dry, 
egg and bread crumb or dip in frying batter, and fry a 
good brown. Serve either with piquante sauce {q.v,) or 
with brown bread and butter and sliced lemon. 

Roe, Hard, and Bacon. — Ingredients : Six slices of roe, 
six thin rashers of bacon. Time required : Preparation 
overnight. Ten minutes in the morning. Prepare the roe 
as in Roe, Hard {q-v,). Cook rashers of bacon, fry the 
slices of roe in the bacon fat and put roe and bacon on 
the same dish. 

Roes, Herrings', Soft. — Ingredients : Soft roes, hot 
buttered toast, maitre d'hotel butter. Time required : 
Ten minutes. Put the soft roes of herrings in a shallow 
pan with a little butter, pepper and salt on each and 
bake in the oven. Have ready slices of hot buttered 
toast, place the roes on these and garnish with maitre 
d'hotel butter. 

Roes, Herrings', Soft, Stewed. — Ingredients: Herrings' 
roes, white sauce. Time required : Preparation overnight. 
A quarter of an hour in the morning. Parboil the soft 
roes in salted water mixed with a teaspoonful of vinegar. 
Drain well. In the morning make the roes hot in good 
white sauce flavoured with nutmeg and a little lemon- 
juice. 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 105 

Salmon and Shrimp Toast. — Ingredients : Two slices 
buttered toast, salmon and shrimp paste (to be bought 
in small jars of grocers), sauce. Potted salmon {q.v.) 
may also be used. Time required : A quarter of an hour. 
Make two slices of toast, butter well, spread a layer of 
salmon and shrimp paste on one and put the other slice 
of buttered toast on top to make a sandwich, then cut 
into fingers and arrange crosswise. Pour over a sauce 
made as follows : Stand a gallipot in a stewpan of hot 
water and put in it a raw egg, two tablespoonfuls of 
cream, half an ounce of butter, pepper and salt. Mix 
with a spoon over the fire till the sauce thickens. Serve 
hot, garnished with plenty of chopped parsley. 

Salmon Cutlets. — Ingredients : Salmon, butter. Time 
required : Ten to fifteen minutes. Cut the salmon into 
neat pieces not more than half an inch thick. Pepper 
and salt them lightly, melt an ounce of butter in a stew- 
pan, lay in the cutlets, cover the pan closely and cook 
them as slowly as possible till done. Turn when half 
cooked. Serve very hot, with the butter that is in the 
pan poured over the fish. An excellent breakfast dish 
can be made of a small piece of the tail of a salmon, the 
flesh of which has been lifted from the bone, divided into 
neat pieces and cooked thus. 

Salmon, Kippered or Smoked.— When salmon is not 

in season, kippered salmon is to be had. Various break- 
fast dishes can be made of it, and it is to be noted that 
those who like it at all generally like it very much. It 
is to be bought by the pound, and will keep for some 
time if hung in a cool airy place. Slices can then be 
taken as they are wanted. The Dutch salmon prepared 
by the Jews is the best, and the most expensive. 

Kippered salmon that has undergone the curing pro- 



106 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 

cess for some time and that is hard and dry should be 
soaked for a while before being used, according to con- 
dition. The best kippered salmon is that which has 
been slightly kippered. Objectionable saltness may be 
modified by pouring boiling water over the fish to cover 
it, draining the slices quickly and drying them on a cloth. 
The following recipes have been approved. They can 
be followed for other kippers than salmon : — 

1. Cut the kipper, which has been soaked if necessary, 
into very thin slices, butter or oil and pepper them and 
broil over a clear fire. Rub with butter, squeeze over 
them the juice of a lemon and serve hot. 

2. Cut the salmon into strips instead of into slices, 
wrap each one in oiled paper, and broil, turning oc- 
casionally. Take off the paper before dishing. 

3. Cut the kipper into strips, lay these in a pan with 
a good slice of butter and a tablespoonful of boiling 
water. Simmer very gently, and baste frequently until 
the fish is hot and the liquor^ absorbed. Pepper well, 
put a knob of butter over the fish and serve very hot. 

4. Cut into wafer-like slices and serve in the form of 
sandwiches. 

Salmon, Pickled or Soused. — Ingredients : The whole 
or a portion of a salmon, or fragments of cooked fish, 
pickle. Time required : Soak twelve hours before using. 
Boil a salmon, split it open, and leave it till cold, or take 
neat pieces from the remains of cold boiled salmon. Put 
the fish in a deep dish, and cover it with a pickle made 
of equal quantities of the liquor in which it was cooked 
and vinegar, boiled together with salt, pepper, one or 
two bay leaves, and a sprig of lemon thyme and allowed 
to get cold. Cover the salmon. It will keep good for 
several days, and if neatly dished will constitute an ex- 
cellent cold dish for breakfast. 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts: 107 

Salmon, Potted. — Ingredients : Fragments of dressed 
salmon, seasoning, butter. Pound cold dressed salmon 
in a mortar with pepper and salt and dissolved butter to 
moisten the pulp. Press into small jars, cover with 
clarified butter. Tinned salmon may be utilised for this 
dish. 

Salmon, Smoked.— (5^^ Salmon, Kippered.) 

Salmon, Soused. — (See Salmon, Pickled.) 

Salmon^ Tinned. — The best brands of tinned salmon 
may be utilised with advantage for breakfast. Tinned 
salmon is specially suitable for pickling. Flaked and 
seasoned agreeably it may be put as a border round fried 
potatoes. 

Sandwiches, Indian, — Ingredients : Fragments of 
cooked meat, white or brown sauce, curry paste. Time 
required : Preparation overnight. Ten minutes in the 
morning. Prepare overnight a paste made of fragments 
of cooked game or poultry and an equal quantity of ham 
or tongue chopped and pounded. Moisten the mince 
with a spoonful or two of good white or brown sauce 
and add a teaspoonful of curry paste, or use instead one or 
two spoonfuls of Halford's curry sauce. In the morning 
make two slices of thick buttered toast. Whilst they are 
hot spread the paste between them, and cut the sand- 
wich into fingers. Pile crosswise on a hot dish and 
serve. 

Sandwiches, Savoury, for Breakfast. — Ingredients : 
Two long slices of cooked meat and three of bread, 
seasoning. Time required : About ten minutes. Cut 
two long slices of cold meat and three of bread about 
the same shape and size. Season the meat with pepper 
and salt and a little finely chopped parsley. Lay one 



/■ 



108 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

slice of bread between two of meat, and have the other 
two slices outside. Fasten the sandwich securely in 
position with short wooden skewers. Fry the sandwich 
in hot fat till the bread is' crisp and brown and serve 
very hot. 

Sardines are much used for breakfast, and it is wise 
to keep two or three tins of sardines in the house for 
use in an emergency. Sometimes the fish are served 
cold in the tin and enclosed in an ornamental box. 
Sometimes they are lifted from the tin and drained, 
arranged neatly on a dish, and garnished with chopped 
capers or chopped parsley ; fresh salad oil is then poured 
over them. 

Sardines, Broiled. — Ingredients : Half a dozen sardines, 
seasoning, hot buttered toast, maitre (Vhotel butter. 
Time required : Five minutes. Skin half a dozen good- 
sized sardines, season them with salt and cayenne, and 
put them in a double broiler. Broil for two minutes on 
each side over a brisk fire. Have some hot buttered 
toast ready on a hot dish, lay the sardines on the top, 
sprinkle some drops of lemon-juice on them, or better 
still put some maitre d' hotel butter on them and serve 
at once. 

Sardines, Curried. — Ingredients : Half a dozen sar- 
dines, curry sauce, rice. Time required : Sauce pre- 
pared and rice boiled overnight. Ten minutes. Skin and 
bone six or eight firm sardines, season them with salt and 
cayenne and sprinkle a few drops of lemon-juice over 
them. Heat them thoroughly in a gill of good curry 
sauce. {See Sauce, Curry.) Place the preparation on a 
hot dish with a border of rice and serve hot. (»S^^ Rice 
Boiled for Curry.) 

Sardine^ in Cases* — {See Oysters, Mock.) 




The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 109 

Sardines, Savoury. — Ingredients : Half a dozen sar- 
dines, a dessertspoonful of Worcester sauce, toast. Time 
required : Five minutes. Skin, bone and trim the sar- 
dines, make them hot in the sauce, and serve on toast. 

Sardine Toasti — Ingredients : Toast, sardines, sauce 
and eggs. Time required : About a quarter of an hour. 

1. Toast a slice of bread a third of an inch thick, and 
divide into fingers. Lay upon each one a sardine that 
has been boned, skinned and made hot in the oven. 
Have ready and pour over all a sauce made as follows : 
Mince a piece of onion the size of a thumb nail as finely 
as possible and toss over the fire in a little butter till 
soft and yellow but not brown. Put three well -beaten 
eggs into a double saucepan, or into a gallipot standing 
in a saucepan of boiling water. Add a slice of butter, a 
tablespoonful of cream, the onion, a teaspoonful of 
anchovy essence, pepper and salt. Stir the ingredients 
together till the sauce thickens. It must not be put in 
an ordinary saucepan and allowed to boil. 

2. Fry neat rounds of bread in enough hot fat to float 
them. When bright brown on one side turn to the other. 
Skin and bone four sardines. Beat to a paste with one 
ounce of butter and a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy. 
Mix a teaspoonful of flour to a smooth paste with a 
dessertspoonful of milk. Stir into half a gill of boiling 
water and keep stirring over the fire till thick. Add the 
sardine paste and stir again till hot. Spread the prepara- 
tion on the rounds of buttered toast, and sprinkle a few 
drops of essence of anchovy or a few drops of dissolved 
meat glaze on the top. 

3. Skin and bone three sardines and break into flakes. 
Put them in a saucepan, dredge a teaspoonful of flour 
over them, and add two raw eggs well beaten, a teaspoon- 
ful of Worcester sauce, half an ounce of butter, pepper 



110 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 

and salt. Stir over the fire till thoroughly hot, spread on 
buttered toast and serve. 

Sauce, Anchovy. — {See Sauce, Melted Butter.) 

Sauce, Brown Butter. — Put from two to three ounces 
of fresh butter into an omelette pan, and stir over a quick 
fire until it is brown without being at all burnt. Skim 
off the froth, add salt and pepper, and take it from the 
fire. Mix with it a wineglassful of vinegar which has 
been already boiled quickly till reduced to a tablespoonful. 
Serve immediately. If there is not time to reduce the 
vinegar, two teaspoonfuls of tarragon or Chili vinegar 
may be used instead. 

Sauce, Caper. — Add a teaspoonful of crushed capers, 
and half a teaspoonful of vinegar to half a pint of sauce — 
melted butter (q.v.). 

Sauce, Curry. — Fry two chopped onions and a sour 
apple, two bay leaves, a sprig of thyme, and a little 
scraped carrot and celery in two ounces of butter. When 
soft mix in smoothly one ounce of flour, one ounce of 
curry paste and a pint of stock or milk. Stir the sauce 
and boil for a quarter of an hour, then fub through a 
sieve. Use as required. (For an easy way of making 
the sauce see Eggs, Curried.) 

Sauce, Dutch (simple), — Add the yolk of an egg, and 
a teaspoonful of lemon-juice or vinegar to a gill of melted 
butter. Stir over a slow fire till the sauce is as thick as 
cream, but do not let it boil. 

Sauces, Fish. — 1 (A simple sauce for broiled fish). 
Beat a dessertspoonful of butter to cream, and mix with 
it a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a teaspoonful of vinegar, 
a little salt and cayenne, and if liked a pinch of finely 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, \\\ 

minced pickled gherkin or chopped parsley. Lay the 
sauce upon the fish. 

2. Melt half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, and mix 
smoothly with it three quarters of an ounce of flour. 
Add gradually half a pint of stock. Boil for a minute, 
then pour in half a gill of cream, salt and pepper and a 
tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley. 

Sauce, Melted Butter. — Melt an ounce of butter in a 
small saucepan. Draw the pan back and mix in gradually 
half an ounce of flour. Cook the paste for a minute, beat- 
ing it all the time with the back of a wooden spoon, then 
add half a pint of cold water a little at a time and stir the 
sauce till it boils. Boil for three minutes and serve. A 
dessertspoonful of essence of anchovy, or a teaspoonful 
of fennel, washed, dried and chopped small, and a little 
vinegar added to melted butter will convert it into anchovy 
or fennel sauce. 

Sauce, Mustard. — Add a teaspoonful of mixed mustard 
to half a pint of sauce — melted butter (^.i^.)* 

Sauce, Parsley, or Mattre d'HStel Sauce. — Wash a 
few sprigs of parsley and dry well, then chop finely. If 
chopped while wet the particles will not separate properly. 
Stir a heaped teaspoonful into half a pint of sauce — 
melted butter (f/.^.), add a squeeze of lemon-juice, pepper 
and salt, and serve. If after being chopped the parsley 
is put into the corner of a napkin dipped in water and 
squeezed dry it will be all the better. 

Sauce, Piquante. — Simmer a tablespoonful of crushed 
capers, the same of chopped gherkins, and the same of 
finely chopped shalot in a gill of vinegar till soft. Stir 
into half a pint of ordinary brown sauce, boil and serve. 

Sauce, Shrimp. — Pick half a pint of shrimps and stew 



112 The DrcriONAnv of Dainty Breakfasts. 

the heads and shells in stock. With this stock make half 
a pint of sauce — melted butter (q-v,), add a few drops of 
anchovy and the picked shrimp§. 

Sauce, Tomato. — Break up four or five tomatoes and 
put them into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, a good- 
sized onion sliced, pepper and salt, ^nd enough stock or 
cold water to cover the tomatoes. Stew gently for 
about three quarters of an hour, then rub them through 
a sieve fine enough to keep back the seeds. Make 
thoroughly hot and serve. This sauce ought to be rather 
thicker than thick cream. It can be made quite well 
with tinned tomatoes by simply rubbing them through a 
sieve arid boiling the pulp with a little brown sauce. 

Sauce, White. — Melt an ounce of butter in a sauce- 
pan, and mix smoothly with it an ounce of flour. Cook 
well. Pour on half a pint of well-flavoured white stock. 
Boil till smooth and thick, then add two tablespoonfuls 
of thick cream. 

Sausages. — High-class sausages constitute a very 
popular breakfast dish. To be satisfactory however they 
ought either to be made at home, or to be bought of a 
respectable dealer. They are excellent either fried or 
baked, and served on toast or curried. Those who object 
to the skins are advised to try the recipe Sausages, Fried 
(Superlative). 

Sausages and Apples. — Ingredients : Six sausages, 
three large apples, sugar, nutmeg. Time required : 
Preparation overnight. Ten to twenty minutes. Peel 
and core the apples, and cut them into slices the third 
of an inch thick. Lay them in a dish, sift white sugar 
and grated nutmeg over them, cover them with another 
dish, and let them remain till morning. Melt a little fat 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 113 

in a stewpan, put in the sausages with the apples between 
them, and fry gently till both are well cooked. Lift out 
the apples when soft before they have time to fall. 

Sausages, Baked. — Ingredients : Six sausages, six 
pieces of bread, sauce. Tune required : Preparation 
overnight. Fifteen minutes. Take the required number 
of sausages, put them in a baking-tin and separate them 
from each other by pieces of bread cut the same shape 
and size. Bake as gently as possible for about three 
quarters of an hour, and baste them now and again. 
In the morning make them hot through. Serve with 
or without brown sauce, and with the bread as a 
garnish. 

Sausages, Curried. — Ingredients : Sausages, curry 
sauce, rice. Time required : Preparation overnight. 
About a quarter of an hour in the morning. Bake the 
sausages overnight. In the morning prepare some curry 
sauce. {See Eggs, Curried.) Make it hot, lay in the 
sausages which have been cut in halves lengthwise, and 
let them get hot through. Serve on a hot dish with a 
border of rice round the dish. (See Rice Boiled for 
Curry.) 

Sausages, Fried. — Ingredients : Sausages, fat. Time 

required : Ten to twenty minutes. Melt as much butter 

or dripping in a frying-pan as will just cover the bottom, 

and no more. If there is too much fat the sausages wifl 

burst. As soon as it is melted and before it gets hot put 

in the sausages. Shake the pan for a minute, and keep 

turning them, be careful not to break them or prick 

them in so doing. Fry them over a very slow fire till 

they are nicely browned on all sides. The secret of 

frying sausages is to let them get hot very gradually. 

8 



114 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

Sausages, Fried (Superlative). — Ingredients : Saus- 
ages, egg, bread crumbs. Time required : Preparation 
overnight. Two or three minutes for frying in the morning. 
Plunge the sausages into boiling water, and boil gently 
for ten or twelve minutes, then take off the skin. Thus 
far the sausages can be prepared overnight, and bread 
crumbs can also b,e made ready for use in the morning. 
A little while before they are to be cooked brush the 
sausages all over with beaten egg and roll them in bread 
crumbs to coat them entirely. Lay them in a frying 
basket, plunge into hot fat, and cook till brown. Serve 
very hot. 

Sausages, German. — (See German Sausages.) 

Sausages, Home-made. — Ingredients : Equal quanti- 
ties of pork, veal and fat, seasoning. Take equal quantities 
of pork, veal, and firm fat, remove all skin, sinew and 
inferior portions, and chop finely. Mix perfectly and 
season with pepper, salt, a little grated nutmeg and 
pounded mace. Form the preparation into cakes rather 
less than an inch thick, flour and fry till brown. If the 
mince is pressed into a potting pan and kept in a cool 
place it will keep good for some days. Good sausage 
rolls may be made from it. 

Sausage Rolls. — Ingredients : Sausages, pastry. Time 
to bake : Fifteen to twenty minutes. Boil some sausages 
for about ten minutes, skin them, cut them in halves, 
and let them cool. Roll some pastry into four-inch 
squares. Lay a slice of sausage on one half of each piece 
of pastry, fold the other half over, moisten the edges, and 
press them together. Place the rolls on a baking sheet 
and bake. 

Scallops. — Ingredients : Scallops, bread crumbs, pars- 
ley, seasoning, butter. Time required : Preparation 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 115 

overnight. Ten to twenty minutes in the morning. 
Take some fresh fish and make them ready for cooking 
the day before they are wanted. For this open the shells 
and trim away the beards and the black portions, leaving 
only the yellow part and the white, which looks something 
like the flesh of a crab's claw. Rinse the portion that 
is to be used and drain it. Mince the meat well and 
mix with it a third of its bulk of finely grated bread 
crumbs, a little chopped parsley and plenty of pepper 
and salt. A heaped tablespoonful of chopped parsley 
will suffice for' a dozen scallops. Wash thoroughly and 
dry the deeper scallop shells and allow one shell for three 
fish. Butter the inside of the shells thickly, sprinkle a 
layer of bread crumbs in them, put in the prepared fish, 
cover it again with bread crumbs and lay small knobs of 
butter here and there on it. Place the shells in a hot 
oven or in a Dutch oven before the fire, and let them re- 
main until the preparation is cooked through and brow^n 
on the surface. Serve very hot in the shells on a dish 
covered with a napkin, and garnished with slices of lemon 
or with parsley. The scallop shells should be taken care 
of, as they can be used for scalloped fish. Toasted 
rashers of bacon may suitably accompany this dish. 

Scalloped Fish, etc. — Fragments of any kind of cooked 
food can be scalloped, that is minced, made savoury and 
made hot in shells with bread crumbs. Metal shells 
known as "coquilles" are sold for the purpose. Real 
scallop shells can however be used again and again. 

Scones. — (See Fancy Bread.) 

Shriijips, Curried. — [See Prawns, Curried.) 

Shrimps, Potted. — Ingredients : One pint of shrimps, 
one ounce of butter, seasoning. Time required : About 



116 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

ten minutes to make hot. Fresh shrimps may be con- 
verted into a tasty and not unwholesome breakfast dish. 
Brown shrimps are to be preferred. Take a pint of fresh 
shrimps, shell them and put them into a small saucepan 
containing one ounce of butter melted with a tiny dust 
of cayenne and powdered mace and a pinch of salt. 
Toss over the fire till the shrimps are very hot and well 
mixed with the butter, turn them into a small jar, press 
them down and send to breakfast next day. If liked, the 
shrimps can be covered with clarified butter, but when 
they are to be used at once this is scarcely necessary. 

Shrimps, Scalloped. — Ingredients : A pint of shrimps, 
a cupful of milk, cornflour, seasoning, bread crumbs. 
Time required : About a quarter of an hour. Shell a 
pint of fresh shrimps. Mix a dessertspoonful of corn- 
flour to a smooth paste with cold water and stir into it 
a cupful of boiling milk. Stir over the fire for a few 
minutes till the sauce is thick and smooth, then add the 
shrimps, some salt and cayenne and half an ounce of 
butter. Prepare some scallop shells, fill them with the 
shrimp sauce, cover with bread crumbs and make hot in 
the oven. (See Scalloped Fish.) 

Shrimp Toast. — {See Salmon and Shrimp Toast.) 

Smelts, Fried. — Ingredients : Required number of 
smelts, flour, egg, bread crumbs and sauce. Time required: 
For frying, five or six minutes. Cut ofi^ the fins with 
scissors, clean the smelts through the gills and wipe 
carefully. Roll in flour, then dip in egg and bread 
crumbs or fine oatmeal, fry in a basket in a good depth 
of boiling fat till crisp and lightly browned. Serve on a 
napkin, two and two at right angles, garnish with fried 
parsley and cut lemon and send anchovy or any suitable 
fish sauce to table as an accompaniment. 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 117 

Sole au Gratin. — Ingredients: A thick sole, savoury 
mixture, bread crumbs, stock. Time required :' About 
fifteen minutes. Choose a thick sole, skin and trim it, 
and score the flesh in two or three places. Prepare a 
savoury seasoning by rubbing a slice of stale bread 
through a wire sieve and mixing with the crumbs a shalot 
finely minced, two large or eight small mushrooms, a 
piece of fat bacon, chopped small, pepper and salt. 
Butter the inside of a dish which will stand the fire, 
spread half the seasoning on it and add a few drops of 
lemon-juice. Lay the sole, the scored side uppermost, on 
the seasoning, and sprinkle the remainder of the mixture 
on it with a little more lemon -juice. Put little pieces of 
butter here and there on the top and pour over last of all 
a gill of strong stock. Bake in a good oven for ten or 
fifteen minutes until a knife pushed into the thickest part 
of the fish will pierce easily to the bone. Serve hot. 

Soles (Small), Baked. — Ingredients : Three or four 
slips for a dish, butter, bread crumbs, seasoning. Time 
required ;. About twenty minutes. Small soles (commonly 
called slips) furnish an excellent breakfast dish. Scrape 
the slips but do not skin them, roll them in a soft cloth to 
dry them, then brush them over on the white side with 
melted butter, and sprinkle bread crumbs, pepper and 
salt on the top. Lay them, the breaded side uppermost, 
in a greased baking tin and bake in a good oven for about 
twenty minutes. 

Sole, Filleted. — Soles, and indeed all flat fish, are 
excellent for breakfast when filleted, as by this means 
the bones are got rid of, and early risers often object to 
have to deal with bones. The fishmonger will fillet the 
fish if asked to do so, but the business can easily be 
managed by the cook according to the following method. 



118 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

Prepare the fish overnight. Wash it and lay it on a 
board. Cut off with a sharp knife the head, tail and 
outer fins, cut through the skin near the tail in order to 
get a hold of it, and draw off the skin from the tail to the 
head. Make a deep incision down the spinal bone, dex- 
terously slip the knife between the flesh and the bone, 
and raise the flesh entire, as free from jags as possible. 
Do this to both sides of the fish alike, thus obtaining 
four long fillets from each sole. Soles thus filleted may 
be curried, fried, saute or boiled and served on toast. 

Sole, Fillets of, Curried. — Ingredients : Fillets of sole, 
curry sauce, rice. Time required : Preparation over- 
night. Ten minutes in the morning. Cook the soles over- 
night, and at the same time boil the rice (see Rice Boiled 
FOR Curry) and prepare the sauce. In the morning heat 
the rice and the sauce. Put the slices of fish in the 
sauce and let them get hot through. Serve with a 
border of rice. In warm weather an acceptable dish 
may be made of curried sole served cold. Cook the sole 
and when cold spread curry paste lightly on one side. 
Pile the rice in the middle of the dish, and lay the slices 
of cold sole artistically round it, alternating them with 
slices of raw tomato. Garnish with chopped parsley, or 
with hard-boiled yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve. 

Sole, Fillets of, Fried. — Ingredients : Fillets of sole, 
egg, bread crumbs. Time required : Five or six minutes 
for frying. Prepare the fish {see Sole, Filleted) and 
dry the fillets perfectly, then egg and bread crumb them. 
Unless they are thoroughly dried the crumbs will not 
adhere. Arrange in a single layer in a frying basket, and 
immerse in hot fat till brown. If preferred the fillets 
may be floured lightly, egged and floured again. 

Sole, Fillets of, on Toast. — Ingredients : Sole, toast, 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 119 

egg, lemon-juice and seasoning. Time required: Ten 
minutes. Fillet a sole {see Sole, Filleted) and twist the 
fillets neatly. Put them into a saucepan with a gill of " 
cold water or stock, a few drops of lemon-juice, pepper 
and salt. Bring to the boil, draw the pan back, put on 
the lid and simmer five minutes. Lift the fillets carefully 
and lay each on a square of toast. Stir the yolk of an 
egg in the liquid, off the fire, stir and simmer till thick, 
and pour a little over each fillet. 

Soles cooked thus are very good served with brown 
butter sauce. (See Sauce, Brown Butter.) 

Sole, Fillets of, Sa,ui4,— Ingredients : Sole, egg, bread 
crumbs, sauce. Time required : Preparation overnight. 
About five minutes for frying. Fillet a sole {see Sole, 
Filleted), and dry the fillets, egg and bread crumb them. 
Melt a slice of butter, in the frying-pan, put in the fillets 
and cook gently until brown on one side, then turn them 
till brown on the other. Drain on kitchen paper, and 
dish like cutlets, with the fillets overlapping each other. 
Sejrve with sauce. 

Sole, Fried. — higredients : Sole, egg, bread crumbs. 
Time required : About eight minutes for frying. A sole 
weighing one pound or rather less should be chosen for 
frying w^hole. Very large thick fish are best when filleted. 
Skin the sole and be sure that it is perfectly dry. Flour 
it or cover it with egg and bread crumbs, or dip it in 
batter, then lay it in a frying-pan with plenty of hot fat. 
Shake the pan gently for about four minutes, then stick 
a fork into the head of the fish, lift it, turn it over, and 
let it cook about four minutes longer. Lift it again, 
drain and serve hot. 

Fried sole can be served with or without sauce. Pi- 
quante sauce or shrimp sauce, the recipes for which are 



/ 



120 The Dictionary of Dainty ^Breakfasts. 

given, or any of the sauces to be found under Sauces, 
Fish, are suitable for the purpose. 

Sprats. — Do not buy the fish ^unless they are quite 
fresh. If obtained, however, when newly caught they 
can be kept in a cool place and served at breakfast. 
They should be cooked a few at a time. 

Sprats, Dried. — Pour boiling water over the fish, cover 
them, let them remain five minutes, then take away the 
skins, pass them through dissolved butter on a hot dish, 
pepper lightly and serve at once. 

Sprats, Fried. — Ingredients : Sprats, flour, cayenne, 
cut lemon, brown bread and butter. Time required : 
Two or three minutes for one layer. Wash the sprats 
gently with cold water, lift them out carefully, drain 
them^ lay them between the folds of a cloth, and dry 
them. Sprinkle a little salt over them, put a cupful of 
flour into a sheet of paper, throw the sprats into*it, and 
toss them about until coated with flour. Put a single 
layer of the fish in a wire basket, lower them into a good 
depth of hot fat, and keep moving the basket till the fish 
are crisp. A few only should be cooked at once. Put 
them on paper to free them from grease, and serve with 
cut lemon, cayenne, and brown bread and butter. Sprats 
are oily in their nature, but they are less greasy when 
fried in a good depth of fat than in a small quantity. 
If, however, sprats for one or two persons only are 
needed, the fish can be dried, floured, run on skewers, 
and cooked in the frying-pan. 

Sprats, Grilled. — Ingredients : Sprats, flour, brown 
bread and butter, lemon, cayenne. Time required : Two 
or three minutes for each layer. Wash, dry and flour the 
sprats, lay them between the folds of a double gridiron. 
Turn once during the cooking and serve hot. 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 121 

Sprats, Pickled. — Ingredients: Sprats, vinegar, season- 
ing. Time required : Two hours. Clean the sprats, 
put them in a pie dish, cover with a pickle composed of 
two parts water and one part vinegar, and for each quart 
of liquid allow a teaspoonful of peppercorns, and two bay 
leaves. Bake gently for two hours. Serve cold. 

Sweetbreads. — Ingredients : Sweetbreads, white sauce, 
fried bread. Time required : Preparation overnight. 
Put the sweetbreads into salt and water for an hour, then 
throw them into boiling water, and simmer gently for 
about twenty minutes. Drain them, pour cold water 
over them, trim away gristle and skin, cut into small 
pieces, egg and bread them. Thus far the sweetbread 
can be prepared overnight. In the morning egg and 
bread them again, put them in the Dutch oven, and toast 
till well browned, basting well. Serve with brown gravy. 
Or if more agreeable, simmer them in a little white sauce 
till tender. Or having cooked the sweetbreads in good 
white sauce pile the preparation in the centre of bread 
patties (q.v.). 

Sweetbreads, Curried. — Ingredients: Sweetbreads, 
egg, crumbs, curry sauce. Time required : Preparation 
overnight. Ten minutes in the morning. Prepare the 
breads as in the last recipe. Egg and bread them twice 
if approved, but take care that the coating gets dry. Fry 
in hot fat to a rich brown, dish and pour curry sauce 
round the base. Lambs' sweetbreads are very good 
when daintily curried. 

Tea. — A good old rule known to every one is that the 

water used for making tea should be boiling. 

Unless the kettle boiling be, 
Filling the teapot spoils the tea. 

Yet it is not sufficient that the water should be actually 
boiling ; it should be used the instant it has reached the 



122 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

boiling point. Water that has boiled for a while becomes 
flat and therefore unfit for making tea. 

The kettle too that is used for boiling the water should 
be clean both inside and out. When water is at all hard 
(and much of the water used in towns is generally more 
or less so) the kettle quickly becomes furred, therefore 
the inside of a kettle should be washed out frequently 
with soda and hot water, and either an ** octopus '* or an 
oyster shell which has been well scrubbed should be kept 
in it, to which the fur may adhere, instead of clinging to 
the bottom and sides of the vessel. 

It is impossible to make good tea of inferior material, 
therefore the first thing to be done in order to secure ex- 
cellence is to choose good tea. This is not easy, because 
teas vary very much in quality. To determine whether 
tea is genuine or not requires an expert. All that the 
average purchaser can do is to buy of a respectable 
dealer, and give a fair price. Cheap tea, recommended 
because it is cheap, is nearly always inferior tea, and it 
proves dear in the end, because there is much waste 
belonging to it. It is largely composed of stalk and dust, 
and the leaves are not well twisted. 

Because the soluble properties of tea are best ex- 
tracted by soft water, and because in towns water is often 
somewhat hard, many make a practice of putting a pinch 
of bicarbonate of soda into the teapot with the tea leaves. 
Only under very exceptional circumstances is this method 
to be recommended. Soda draws out the strength of 
tea, while destroying its flavour, and it favours the extrac- 
tion of the harmful principle which exists in tea. 

The length of time which tea should be allowed to 
draw varies with the quality of the tea, therefore no rule 
for general application can be given. Coarse tea yields 
its strength more quickly than fine tea, and young leaves 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 123 

need to draw longer than old ones. Tea is never whole- 
some, however, when allowed to draw longer than neces- 
sary, and when it has become strong and bitter with 
standing it is most injurious. 

The following is the method recommended for making it 
in an ordinary teapot. Half fill the teapot with hot water, 
let it stand a minute or two till hot then empty it. Put 
in the requisite quantity of good tea, and pour on gently 
about half a pint of freshly boiling water. Let it stand 
two or three minutes with the tea cosy over it, then fill 
the teapot and pour out the tea. 

Good tea may be made in vessels either of silver, 
granite or earthenware, not of tin. The leaves yield 
their goodness most freely in metal teapots. An adr 
vantage belongs however to the use of china and earthen- 
ware, that is, that the teapots can be readily cleaned 
and easily kept clean. It is impossible to make daintily 
flavoured tea in a dirty pot, and it should be remembered 
that the inside of a teapot should be as clean and bright 
as the outside. After being used the inside of a teapot 
should invariably be rinsed out with boiling water, then 
dried thoroughly. 

In households where the members of the family come 
down irregularly, one after another, then want breakfast 
on the instant, there is sometimes a difficulty in provid- 
ing tea hot and good for each one. There is now in the 
market a vessel called the Chandler's patent teapot, 
which makes everything simple and easy. This teapot 
is supplied with a case or infuser of wire gauze, which 
can be lowered or raised at will, being attached to a 
chain passing through the knob of the lid. The leaves 
are put into this infuser, the teapot, previously heated, 
is filled with fresh boiling water and the infuser is 
lowered into it. Having stood the requisite length of 



124 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 

time it is raised quite clear of the liquid, and there fixed 
by means of a slit in the knob at the top. If now a cosy 
, is put over the teapot the infusion will remain hot for 
an hour or two, without any change taking place in 
the character of the liquid. Thus the poisonous tannin 1 

found in tea that is overdrawn is entirely avoided, while I 

the quality of the tea is retained. This idea was recom- j 

mended by the late Sir Andrew Clark many years ago. j 

When the leaves are left in the liquid the use of a cosy . j 

is obviously to be deprecated. It simply helps to keep 
the tea hot, while it becomes dark, strong and poisonous. 
But when the leaves are no longer in contact with the 
liquid, the cosy maintains the heat, while the tea pre- 
serves its original strength and flavour. 

In cases where delay is unavoidable and where the 
Chandler^ s. patent infuser is not available, it is a good 
plan to use two teapots for making tea — draw it in 
one, then pour it off into the other (made hot to receive 
it) and keep it hot under a cosy. By this simple means 
also tea can be kept hot for a long time without detri- 
ment. No reasonable objection can be made to the 
employment of a cosy used thus. 

Tea Cakes. — {See Fancy Bread.) 

Toast. — Bread used for toast should be not less and 
not more than two days old, and it should be about the 
third of an inch thick, so that it can be made crisp 
throughout. When it is so thick that raw bread re- 
mains between the toasted sides, the raw piece is less 
digestible than the bread from which it was made. To • 
make toast put the bread on the fork and hold it at a 
little distance in front of a clear bright fire. When it is 
hot and dry on the surface, without having taken any 
colour, turn it, and bring the other side to the same 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 125 

condition. Now turn it again and let it slowly become 
richly brown on both sides all over, without being in the 
least black. Serve it at once. The art of making toast 
well consists in drying it slowly, browning it equally 
without burning it, and serving it as soon as done. 

If toast is to be buttered, the butter should be spread 
lightly with the edge of a knife. To press butter into toast 
makes it heavy and spoils it. Dry toast is very easy of 
digestion. 

Toast, Anchovy. — {See Anchovy Toast, Anchovy and 
Egg Toast, Anchovy Butter Toast and- Buttered 
Eggs.) 

Toast and Eggs with B\o?LiQT.— Ingredients : Eggs, 
bloater, toast. Time required : Ten minutes. Split 
open down the back a bloater that is not too dry, pour 
boiling water over and soak for five minutes, then dry 
in a cloth. Lift the flesh from the bones and make the 
fillets hot in the oven or on the gridiron. Lay the 
prepared bloater upon a slice of toast, pour buttered 
eggs over them, and serve hot. 

Toast and Potatoes with Bloater. — Ingredients : 

Bloater, toast, potatoes. Time required : Ten minutes 
(apart frpm the mashed potatoes). Prepare the toast 
and the bloater as in the last recipe ; lay the fillets of 
fish on the toast and cover with mashed potatoes. 

Toast, Bombay. — Ingredients : Two eggs, toast, 
butter, essence of anchovy, capers. Time required : 
Ten minutes. Prepare slices of buttered toast cut into 
rounds or fingers. Melt a little butter in an omelette pan. 
As it dissolves stir into it two beaten eggs, half a tea- 
spoonful of essence of anchovy and half a teaspoonful 
of chopped capers and pepper. Spread the mixture on 
the toast and serve hot. 



I < 



126 The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

Toast, Devilled. — Ingredients : Toast, butter, mustard 
and Worcester sauce. Time required : About ten 
minutes. Cut the crust from a slice of toasted bread. 
Beat a teaspoonful of butter to cream, mix with it a tea- 
spoonful of mustard and a teaspoonful of Worcester 
sauce. Spread on toast and serve. 

Toast, Egg. — {See Egg Toast.) 

Toast, Ham and Egg. — {See^ Ham and Egg Toast.) 

Toast, Kidney.— (5^^ Kidney Toast.) 

Toast, Salmon and Shrimp. — (See Salmon and Shrimp 
Toast.) 

Toast, Sardine. — (See Sardine Toast.) 

Toast, Tomato. — Ingredients : Two eggs, two toma- 
toes, two ounces of ham, onion, buttered toast. Time 
required : About a quarter of an hour. Skin and chop 
two small tomatoes. Mince a piece of onion about the 
size of a thumb nail, also two ounces of ham. Put an 
ounce of butter in a small stewpan, add the mince and 
cook ten minutes. Remove the pan from the fire and 
add two well-beaten eggs and stir over the fire till thick, 
but not at all hard. Cut a large slice of hot buttered 
toast into neat squares, spread the mixture on these and 
serve hot. 

Toast, Tomato, Savoury. — Ingredients : Half a 
dozen tomatoes, tvo eggs, toast, butter, ham, onion, 
parsley, bread crumbs, grated parmesan. Time re- 
quired : About twenty minutes. Skin six ripe tomatoes 
and remove the seeds. Melt an ounce of butter in a 
stewpan, put in the tomatoes and crush them as 
they cook. When smooth, add a teaspoonful of finely 
chopped onion, a slice of cooked ham finely minced, a 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 127 

dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, a tablespoonful of 
bread crumbs, an ounce of grated parmesan, pepper, 
salt and cayenne. Stir Well over the fire, cool a minute, 
add gently two eggs and stir again for a minute till the 
eggs are set. Place the preparation on hot toast, sprinkle 
grated parmesan and chopped parsley on the top and 
serve. 

Toast, Tongue. — {See Tongue Toast.) 

Tomatoes and Buttered Eggs. — {See Eggs, Buttered, 
WITH Tomatoes.) 

Tomato Salad. — An excellent and wholesome break- 
fast relish. Ingredients : Ripe tomatoes, oil, vinegar, 
pepper, salt, a little onion. Time required : A couple of 
minutes. Cut any number of ripe tomatoes into slices 
of an inch thick. Lay these in a dish, and a few minutes 
before breakfast sprinkle them liberally with salt and 
lightly with pepper and baste well with a dressing of 
two parts of oil and one of vinegar. The flavour of 
tomato salad will be much improved if a small piece 
of onion be finely minced and sprinkled over the salad 
before mixing. People who like onions might wish to have 
a small proportion of onion rings mixed with the salad, 
but as a rule a mere suggestion of the flavour of onion 
will be preferred. 

Tomatoes, Stewed. — Ingredients : Tomatoes, butter, 
pepper, salt, sugar. Time required : About half an hour. 
Scald half a dozen ripe tomatoes, skin and slice them. 
Put them into a saucepan with two ounces of butter, 
pepper and salt. Simmer gently for about twenty 
minutes and stir well. When almost cooked add half a 
teaspoonful of powdered white sugar. Serve in a deep 
dish. Thin rashers of bacon may be served with the 
tomatoes. 



128 The Dictioxary of Dainty Breakfasts. 

Tomato Toast. — {See Toast, Tomato.) 

Tongue, Calf s and Sheep's.^When ox tongues are 
too large for the requirements of the household, calf s 
tongue or sheep's tongue may be bought in tins. 

Tongue, Pickled and Boiled. — Ingredients : A fresh 

tongue, salt mixture. Time required : Three weeks for 
pickling, four hours for boiling. Trim away the unsightly 
parts of the root of the tongue. If the tongue is to be 
rolled, leave the fat on ; if not, take it off. Rub the 
tongue well in every part with salt, in twelve hours wipe 
it and rub with a salt mixture composed of one pound of 
salt, one ounce of saltpetre and two ounces of brown 
sugar. (The ingredients used for the pickle should be 
thoroughly dried and well mixed.) Place the tongue 
in a deep jar or pickling pan and turn and rub it every 
day. If not to be boiled immediately hang it in a cool 
airy place to dry, and when dry soak it before cooking it. 
If it is to be boiled at once put it in a large pan, cover 
with cold water and boil gently. When the skin' will 
come off easily it is ready. It may be fixed firmly on a 
board with a skewer in the narrow end and a fork at the 
broad end, till firm. Or it may be rolled lightly, begin- 
ning at the tip, and put into a mould whilst hot, with a 
weight on the top. In either case it can be glazed. {See 
Glaze.) 

Tongue, Potted. — Fragments of tongue potted con- 
stitute a delicate and appetising relish for breakfast. 
{See Potted Meats.) 

Tongue, Tinned. — Tongues for breakfast are sold in 
tins ready cooked and they need only to be turned out, 
to have a serviette or a frill pinned round them and to be 
garnished with parsley. They are excellent. 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts, 129 

Tongue Toast. — Ingredients : Pag end of a tongue, 
seasoning, gravy, egg, toast. The fag end of a tongue 
may be utilised for breakfast as follows : Pass the tongue 
through the mincing machine, season it with pepper 
and mix a piece of onion the size of a thumb nail well 
chopped with it. Moisten it with a little gravy. Stir 
over the fire till hot through, pile on buttered toast and 
lay a poached egg on the top and serve quite hot. The 
fag end of a ham may be used in the same way. (See 
also Eggs, Savoury.) 

Tunny is a fish the flesh of which is firm and close, 
something like veal, but which possesses a peculiar rich 
taste, much liked by epicures. It is sold in oil. The 
best way of serving it for breakfast is to cut it in thin 
slices and dish it in rows, surrounded with chopped 
parsley and capers in small heaps. A little fresh salad 
oil should be poured over it just before sending the 
dish to table. 

Twists. — (See Pancy Bread.) 

Veal and Ham Pressed. — (See Ham and Veal 
Pressed.) 

Veal, Gateau of. — Ingredients : Veal, boiled rice, 

seasoning, bread crumbs, tomato sauce. Time to bake : 

About an hour. Mince together equal quantities of cold 

veal and cold boiled rice. Flavour with lemon, parsley, 

thyme, pepper and salt. Butter a basin, shake fine 

bread crumbs into it to cover the inside and put in the 

mince. Bake in a moderate oven, turn out and serve 

with tomato sauce. The cake should be of a fine brown 

colour. If cooked in a hot oven it will be spoilt. Any 

kind of dressed meat or poultry can be prepared and 

served thus. 

9 



130 The Dictionary of 'Dainty Breakfasts, 

Vegetables, Curried. — Ingredients : Dressed vege- 
tables, curry sauce, rice. Time required : Preparation 
overnight. Ten minutes in the morning. T^ke vegetables 
left from the previous dinner and cut them into dice. 
Put them with an equal measure of curry sauce [see 
Sauce, Curry) and make all hot together in a stewpan. 
. Serve in a hot dish with a border of rice. If liked, hard- 
boiled eggs cut into slices can be put into the sauce also. 

Venison Pasty. — Ingredients : Venison, pastry, gravy. 
Time required : Preparation beforehand. About four 
hours for baking. The neck and the breast of venison 
are the parts to be ^chosen for a pasty. It should be 
understood that the introduction of other meats or of 
hard-boiled eggs, mushrooms or anything of the sort 
would be a mistake. Wipe the meat and cut it into neat 
pieces, lay these in a pie dish, pour gravy over, cover the 
dish with a plate and bake in the oven for six or seven hours. 
Season with pepper and salt only and leave the meat 
until the next day, then remove the fat from the top. 
While the meat is cooking stew down the bones with 
water to cover them, a dozen peppercorns, a little salt 
and spice. When strong and well flavoured skim off the .^ 
fat, strain the broth and squeeze a few drops of lemon- 
juice into it. Put the meat in a fresh dish with a thin 
slice of fat over each piece of lean so that when the pie 
is cut fat and lean may alternate right through. Line 
the sides but not the bottom of the dish with good thick 
pastry, pour some of the cold gravy over it and lay small 
pieces of butter here and there upon it. Cover with a 
thick crust and bake in a slow oven. Add more gravy 
by means of a funnel put through the hole in the centre 
and serve cold. A well-made venison pasty is considered 
a delicacy. 



The Dictionary of Dainty Breakfasts. 131 . 
White Sauce. — {See Sauce, White.) 

Whiting au Gratin.— (5^^ Sole au Gratin.) 

Whiting, Baked. — Ingredients: Whiting, butter, gravy, 
seasoning. Time required : About twenty minutes. Cut 
the heads off the fish, and empty them, opening them 
no more than can be helped. Put them flat in a buttered 
baking dish, the heads one way and the tails another 
and the backs downwards, and put with them a table- 
spoonful of gravy, a knob of butter mixed smoothly with 
flour, a squeeze of lemon-juice, salt and cayenne. Cover 
with buttered paper an^ bake gently for about twenty 
minutes. Serve hot with their own sauce poured over 
them. 

V^hiting^BoWed.— Ingredients : Whiting, sauce. Time 
required : About five minutes for boiling. Empty and 
cleanse the fish, and lift the flesh from the bone in fillets. 
Trim these neatly, then put them into salted boiling 
water with a few drops of vinegar in it, and simmer gently 
for about five minutes. Serve with Dutch or parsley 
sauce. 

Whiting^ Fried*— Ingredients : Whiting, egg, crumbs, 
sauce. Time required : Four to eight minutes, according 
to size. Empty the fish, and fasten them with their tails 
in their mouths, egg and bread crumb them. Fry in 
plenty of hot fat ; when brown they are done. Drain 
on kitchen paper. Send a tureen of fish sauce to table 
with them. (See Sauce, Fish.) 



\ ^ 



INDEX. 



Anchovies, 1. 

— and egg toast, 1. 

— to fillet, 1. 

— with eggs, 2, 28, 33, 38. 
Anchovy butter, 2. 

— paste, 2. 

— toast, 2. 

— toast and buttered eggs, 2. 
Apples, baked, 3. 

— stewed, 3. 

Bacon and eggs, 28-9. 

— and kidney, 65-6, 68, 96. 

— a|id mushrooms, 3. 

— boiled, 4. 

— choice of, 4. 

— cold, 5. 

— liver and kidneys d la bro- 

chette^ 68. 

— rashers of, baked, 5. 

— — fried, 5. 

— — rolled and baked, 5. 

— — toasted or broiled, 5. 

— — with potatoes, 6, 96. 
Batter, frying, 6, 51. 
Beef, frizzled, 6. 

— glazed, 54. 

— hash, 6. 

— jellied, 7. 

— potted, 7. 
-7-' pressed, 7. 

— spiced, 8. 
Bloaters, 8. 

— baked, 9. 

— cakes, 9. 

— on toast, 9. 
Bombay toast, 125. 
Brain cakes, 10 
Brains, 9. 

— calf s, 10. 

— fried, 10. 



Brains fried in butter, 10. 

— — in white sauce, 11. 
Brawn, 11. 

Bread, fried, and kidneys, 67. 

— patties, 12, 121. 

— — cold, 13. 

Breads, fancy (see Fancy breads), 

41. 
Brill, fried (see Fish, fried), 51. 
Brown butter sauce, 110. 

Calf's ' liver (see Chicken?' 
livers), 15. 

Carp, kippered (see Salmon, kip- 
pered), 105. 

Chicken, 13. 

— baked, 13. 

— broiled, 18-4. 

— pieces of, devilled, 15. 

— remains of, 16-7. 

— saute 17. 

— — with chives, 18. 
Chicken's legs, devilled, 14. 

— livers, 15. 
Chocolate, 18. 

Chops, mutton, broiled, 19. 
Cod, creamed, 19. 

— slices of, 20. 

Cod's roe (see Roe), 103. 
Cocoa, from nibs, 20. 

— from powder, 21. 
Coffee, 21. 

— made in cafetiere^ 23. 

— — coffee kettle, 23. 

— — coffee pot, 24. 
jug. 24. 

— made with chicory, 24. 

— quantity needed, 22. 

Crab, curried (see Prawns, cur- 
ried), 98. 

— dressed and served cold, 25, 



134 



Index, 



Crab, mock, 76. 

Croquettes^ 102. 

Curried prawns [see Prawns, 

curried), 98. 
Curry, 25. 

— sauce, 110. 
Cutlets, 25. 

Devilled drumsticks (sec Pheas- 
ant), 88. 

— meats, 25. 

— toast, 26. 
Devonshire stew, 26. 
Dormers, 26, 
Dresden patties, 12, 121. 
Dried haddock, 27. 

— remains of, 27. 

t 

I 

Egg toast, 40-1. 

Eggs, a bonne femme, 27. 

— a Vaurorc, 27. 

— and anchovy, 1, 2, 28, 33, 38. 

— and bacon, 28-9. 

— and fish, 29. 

— and ham on toast, 29, 57. 

— and kidneys, 66. 

— and mushrooms, 30. 

— and peas, 30. 

— and shrimp sauce, 30. 

— au miroir, 30. 

— au plat^ 31. 

— boiled, 31. 

— buttered, 32. 

— — and fines herbes, 33. 

— — curried, 33. 

— — with anchovy, 33. 

— — with pate de/oie gras^ 33. 

— — with tomatoes, 34. 

— — with vegetables, 34. 

— convent, 34. 

— curried, 34-5. 

— devilled, 35. 

— fried, 36. 

— hash with salt beef, 61. 

— in brown butter, 36. 

— in cases, 37. 

— in gravy, 37. 

— - in moonshine, 37. 

— in sunshine, 37. 

— on the dish (see Eggs au plat). 

— poached, 38. 



Eggs, poached, a la maltre 
d'hotel, 38. 

— — and anchovy, 38. 

— — and mince, 39. 

— — and potatoes, 39. 

— relish of, 39. 

— savoury, 39. 

— scalloped, 40. 

— scrambled {see Eggs, but- 

tered). 
Escalopes {see Scallops). 

Fancy breads, 41 ^^ seq. 

Fine rolls, 46. 

General rules, 41. 

Hot cross buns, 42. 

Muffins, 42. 

Oatmeal muffins, 43. 

Rolls, 44. 

Sally Lunns, 45. 

Scones, 45, 

Tea cakes, 45. 

Twists and fine rolls, 46. 

Vienna bread, 46. 
Fish, boiled, 46. 

— cakes, 47. 

— cold, creamed, 47. 

— — curried, 48. 

— — " picked up," 48. 

— — pie, 49. 

— — potted, 49. 

— — scalloped (see Scalloped 
fish). 

— cured [see Fish, fresh), 50. 

— dried [see Fish, fresh), 50. 

— filleted, 50. 

— — with champignons, 50.^ 

— fresh, 50. 

— fried, 51. 

— roes (see Roes), 103. 

- tainted, to sweeten, 51. 

— sauces {see Sauces). 
Frying batter, 6, 51. 

Game, 51. 

— pie, 51-3. 

— minced au gratin, 54. 
German patties, 12, 121. 

— sausage, 54. 
Glaze, 54. 
Grouse, 55, 



•^ V 



Index, 



135 



Haddock, baked, 55. 

— boiled, 55. 

— cold, croutes of, 56. 

— dried, 27. 

— - fillets of (fresh), baked, 56. 

— — fried, 56. 

— grilled, 57. 
Halibut, 57. 

Ham and egg toast, 57. 

— and veal, pressed, 58. 

— devilled, 58. 

— omelette (see Omelette, ham). 

— piece of, to boil, 58. 

— potted [see Potted meats). 

— slices of, 59. 

— toast (see Toast, ham or 

tongue). 

— to boil, 59. 

— to choose, 61. 

Hare, potted (see Potted meats). 
Hash of salted beef with eggs, 61 . 
Herrings, dried (sec Bloaters). 

— fresh, boiled, 61. 

— — broiled, 62. 

— — fried, 62, 

— — pickled, 63. 

— — soused, 63. 

— kippered, 63. 
Herrings' roes, 64. 

Hot cross buns (see Fancy 
breads), 42. 

Kabobs, 64. 
Kedgeree of fish, 65. 
Kidneys, 65. 

— and bacon, 65. 

— — a la brochette^ 66. 

— and eggs,, 66. 

— and fried bread; 67. 

— and mushrooms, 67-8. 

— and potatoes (see Potatoes 

and kidneys), 96. 

— bacon and liver a la brochette, 

68. 

— breaded, 68. 

— broiled, a la maitre d^hotel, 69. 
whole, 69. 

— curried, 69. 

— devilled, 70. 

— omelette (sec Omelette, kid- 

ney)., 



Kidneys, stewed, 70. 

— toast, 71. 
Kromeskies, 71. 

Lamb pie, 71. 
Lambs' sweetbreads, 72. 
Liver, calf's or chicken's (sec 
Chickens' livers). 

— kidneys and bacon, 68. 
Lobster, curried, 72. 

Mackerel, 72. 

— baked, 73. 
~ broiled, 73. 

— kippered, 74. 

— pickled, 74. 

— remains of, pickled, 74. 

Made-up breakfasts, or break- 
fasts made wholly or in part 
from fragments of cooked 
food : — 

Bacon, cold, 5. 

— with potatoes, 6, 96. 
Beef, frizzled, 6. 

— hash, 6. 

— potted, 7. 
Bloater cakes, 9. 
Brawn, 11. 

Bread patties, 12-3, 121. 
Chicken, pieces of, 15. 

— remains of, 16-7. 
Chicken's legs, devilled, 14. 
Cod, creamed, 19. 

Crab, mock, 76. 
Croquettes, 102. 
Curry of meat, fish, etc., 25. 
Devilled drumsticks (sec Pheas- 
ant's legs, devilled), 88. 

— meat, 25. 
Devonshire stew, 26. 
Dormers, 26. 

Dried haddock, remains of, 27. 
Eggs and fish, 29. 

— and ham on toast, 29, 57. 

— and peas, 30. 

— buttered, with vegetables, 
34. 

— poached, and mince, 39. 

— scalloped, 40. 
Fish cakes, 47. 

— cold, creamed, 47. 



136 



Index. 



Fish, cold, curried, 48. 

— -- •' picked up," 48. 
.— — pie, 49. 

— — potted, 49. 

— — scalloped (s^^ Scalloped 
fish). 

Game, minced, 54. 
Haddock, cold, croutes of, 56. 
Ham, devilled, 58. 

— potted {see Potted meats). 
* — toast (see Toast, ham). 
Hare, potted (see Potted 

meats). 
Kabobs, 64. 
Kedgeree, 65. 
Kromeskies, 71. 
Mackerel, remains of, 74. 
Meat cakes, 75. 

— underdressed, grilled, 75. 

— minced, 76. 
Mock crab, 76. 

— cutlets, 77. 
Mutton collops, 79. 

— pies, 80. 
Omelette, chicken, 83. 

— good wife's, 83. 

— savoury, 84. 
Pheasant's legs, devilled, 88. 
Potatoes and salt pork, 96. 

— creamed, 96. 

— hashed, 97. 
Potted meats, 97. 

Rabbit, cold, rewarmed, 100. 
RissoleSj 102. 

Salmon, pickled or soused, 
106. 

— potted, 107. 
Sandwiches, Indian, 107. 

— savoury, 107. 
Scalloped fish, 115. 
Tongue, potted, 128. 

— toast, 129. 
Veal, gateau of, 129. 
Vegetables, curried, 129. 

Maitre d'hotel butter, 75. 

— — sauce (see Parsley sauce), 
111. 

Meat cakes, 75. 

— curried, 75. 

— underdressed, grilled, 75. 

— minced, 76. 



Meat meats, potted (see Potted 

meats). 
Mock crab, 76. 

— oysters, 77. 

— cutlets, 77. 

Muffins (see Fancy breads), 42. 
Mushrooms, baked, 77. 

— curried, 78. 

— fried, 78. 

— grilled, 78. 

— potted, 78. 

— stewed in their own juice, 79. 
Mutton collops, 79. 

— pies, 80. 

NiGHT-BEFORE breakfasts, or 
breakfasts which can be al- 
together or partially made 
ready overnight:— 

Anchovies and egg toast, 1. 

Anchovy toast, 2. 

Bacon, boiled, 4. 

Beef, potted, 7. 

— pressed, 7. 
Bloater cakes, 9. 
Brains, 9 et seq. 
Brawn, 11. 

Bread patties, 12, 121. 
Chicken, 13-4. 

— pieces of, devilled, 15. 

— remains of, 16-7. 
Chicken's legs, devilled, 14. 
Cod, creamed, 19. 

— slices of, 20. 

Cocoa made from nibs, 20. 

Crab, dressed, 25. 

Croquettes^ 102. 

Devilled meat and game, 25. 

Dormers, 26. 

Dried haddocks, remains of, 

27. 
Eggs d honne femmey 27. 

— cL Vaurore^ 27. 

— and anchovy, 28. 

— and bacon with sauce, 29. 

— in sunshine, 37. 

— scalloped, 40. 
Fancy breads, 41. 
Fish cakes, 47. 

— cold, creamed, 47. 

— — curried, 48. 



Index, 



137 



Fish, cold, " picked up," 48. 

— — pie, 49. 

— — potted, 49. 

— — scalloped (5^^ Scalloped 
fish), 115. 

Game pie, 51 et seq. 

— minced, 54. 
Haddock, cold, 56. 

— grilled, 57. 

Ham and veal, pressed, 57. 

— potted(s^^Potted meats), 59. 

— boiled, 59. 
Hash, 61. 

Herrings, pickled, 63. 
Kedgeree, 65. 
Kromeskies, 71. 
Lamb pie, 71. 

Lambs' sweetbreads, 72. 
Mackerel, 72 et seq. 
Meat cakes, 75. 

— minced, 76. 
Mock crab, 76. 

— oysters, 77. 

— cutlets, 77. 
Mushrooms, curried, 7o. 

. — potted, 78. 

— stewed, 79. 
Mutton pies, 80. - 
Oatmeal mush, 80. ^ 
Oysters, curried, 86. 
Ox cheek brawn, 87. 
Pheasant's legs, 88. 
Pies, 89 et seq. 
Pigeons, stewed, 93. 
Pig's cheek, 93. 

— feet, 94. 
Porridge, No. 1, 94. 
Potatoes and kidneys, 96. 
-— fried, 97. 

Potted meats, 97. 
Prawns, curried, 98. 
Rice boiled for curry, 101. 
Rissoles and croquettes^ 102. 
Roe, hard, 104. 
Roes, herrings', soft, 104. 
Salmon, pickled, 106. 

— potted, 107. 
Sandwiches, Indian, 107. 
Sardines, curried, 108. 

. Sausage rolls, 114. 
Sausages, baked, 113. 



Sausages, currifed, 113. 

— fried, superlative, 114. 

— home-made, 114. 
Scallops, 114. 
Scalloped fish, 115. 
Shrimps, curried (see Prawns), 

98. 
Shrimps, potted, 115. 
Sole fillets, 117 ^^ ^^^. 
Sweetbreads, 121. 
Tongue, boiled, 128. 

— potted, 128. 
Veal, gateau of, 129. 
Vegetables, curried, 129. 
Venison pasty, 130. 

Oatmeal muffins {see Fancy 
breads), 43. 

— mush, 80. 

— porridge {see Porridge), 94. 
Omelettes, 80. 

— aux fines herbes (see O. 

savoury), 84. 

— bread, 82. 

— chicken, 83. 

— chickens^ livers, 83. 

— creamy, 83. 

— good wife's, 83. 

— ham, 83. 

— kidney, 84. 

— mock, 84. 

— savoury, 84. 

— simple, 82. 
Oysters and bacon, 85. 

— broiled, 85. 
—p creamed, 85. 

— curried, 86. 

— fried, 86. 

— mock {see Mock oysters), 77. 

— scalloped, 86. 

— stewed in cream, 87. 
Ox cheek brawn, 87. 

Partridge, broiled, 87. 
Pates, 88. 

Patties, German, bread, or Dres- 
den, 12, 121. 
Pears, stewed, 88. 
Pheasant {see Partridge), 87. 
Pheasant's legs, devilled, 88.. 
Pickled pork {see Pig's check), 93. 



9* 



138 



Index, 



Pie and pies, various, 89 et seq. 

— fish, cold, 49. 

— game, 51. 
T- lamb, 71. 

— mutton, 80. 

— pastry for, 90. 

— raised, 91. 
Pigeon's, stewed, 93. 
Pig's cheek, 93. 

— feet, 94. 
Pork, pickled, 93. 
Porridge, 94. 
Potato chips, 95. 

Potatoes and bloater (see Toast 
and potatoes), 125. 

— and kidneys, 96. 

— and salt pork, 96. 

— creamed, 96. 

— fried, 97. 

— hashed, 97. 
Potted meats, 97. 
Prawns, curried, 98. 
Prunes, 99. 
Ptarmigan, 99. 

Rabbit, cold, rewarmed, 100. 

— pie, 100. 
Rhubarb, stewed, 101. 
Rice boiled for curry, 101. 
Rissoles and croquettes^ 102. 
Roe, 103. 

— dried and smoked, 103. 

— hard, 104. 

— — and bacon, 104. 
Roes, herrings', soft, 104. 

— — — stewed, 104. 

Salmon and shrimp toast, 105. 

— cutlets, 105. 

— kippered, 105. 

— pickled, 105. 

— potted, 107. 

— smoked {see Salmon, kip- 

pered), 105. 

— soused (see Salmon, pickled), 

106. 

— tinned, 107. 
Sandwiches, Indian, 107. 

— savoury, 107. 
Sardines, 108. 

— broiled, 108. 



Sardines, curried, 108. 

— savoury, 109. 
Sardine, toast, 109. 

Sauce, anchovy (see Sauce, 
melted butter). 111. 

— brown butter, 110. 

— caper, 110. 

— curry, 110. 
Sauce, Dutch, 110. 

— fish, 110. 

— melted butter. 111. 

— mustard. 111. 

— parsley, or maitre d* hotels 111. 

— piquante. 111. 

— shrimp. 111. 

— tomato, 112. 

— white, 112. 
Sausages, 112. 

— and apples, 112. 

— baked, 113. 

— curried, 113. 
-- fried, 113-4. 

— German (see German sau- 

sage), 54. 

— home-made, 114. 

— rolls, 114. 
Scalloped fish, 115. 
Scallops, 114. 

Scones (see Fancy breads), 45. 
Shrimps, curried (see Prawns, 
curried), 98. 

— potted, 115. 

— scalloped, 116. 

— toast (see Salmon and shrimp 

toast), 105. 
Smelts, fried, 116. 
Sole au gratin, 117. 

— filleted, 117. 

— fillets of, curried, 118. 

— — fried, 118. 

— — on toast, 118. 

— — saute ^ 119. 

— fried, 119. 

Soles, small, baked, 117. 
Sprats, 120. 

— dried, 120. 

— fried, 120. 

— grilled, 120. 

— pickled, 121. 
Sweetbreads, 121. 

— curried, 121. 



Index, 



139 



Tea, 121. 

Tea cakes (s^^ Fancy breads), 45. 

Toast, 124. 

— anchovy, 125^ 

— and eggs with bloater, 125. 

— and potatoes .with bloater, 

125. 
Toast, Bombay, 125. 

— devilled, 126. 

— egg {see Egg toast), 40-1. 

— ham and egg {see Ham and 

egg toast), 57. 

— kidney {see Kidney toast), 71. 

— salmon and shrimp {see 

Salmon and shrimp toast), 
105. 

— sardine {see Sardine toast), 

109. 

— tomato, 126. 

— tongue (see Tongue toast), 

129. . 
Tomato salad ^ 127. 
Tomato toast {see Toast, tomato), 

126. 
Tomatoes and buttered eggs 

{see Eggs, buttered, with 

tomatoes), 34. 
Tomatoes, stewed, 127. 
Tongue, calf's and sheep's, 128. 

— pickled and boiled, 128. 
— • potted, 128. 

— tinned, 128. 

— toast, 129. 
Ten-minute breakfasts : — 

Anchovies with eggs, 2. 
Bacon, rashers of, various, 5. 
Bloaters, various, 9. 
Bombay toast, 125. 
Chicken, pieces of, devilled, 15. 
Chicken's legs, devilled, 14. 

— livers, 15. 

Chops, mutton, broiled, 19. 
Haddock, dried, 27. 
Eggs and bacon, 28. 

— and mushrooms, 30. 

— on the dish, 31. 

— au miroiry 30. 

— boiled, 31. 

— fried, 36. 

— in brown butter, 36. 

— in gravy, 37. 

— in moonshine, 37. 



Eggs, poached, 38. 

— toast, 41. 
Ham, devilled, 58. 

• — slices of, fried, 59. 
Herrings, fresh, various, 61-2. 

— kippered, 63. 
Kidneys and eggs, 66. 

— breaded, 68. 

— devilled, 70. 

— toast, 71. 
Mackerel, baked, 73. 

Meat, underdressed, grilled, 75. 
Mutton collops, 79. 
Omelette, creamy, 83. 

— ham, 83. 

— kidney, 84. 

— mock, 84. 

— savoury, 84. 
Oysters and bacon, 85. 

— broiled, 85. 

— creamed, 85. 

— fried, 86. 

— stewed, in cream, 87. 
Potatoes, creamed, 96. 

— hashed, 97. 

Roe, dried and smoked, 103. 
Roes, herrings', soft, 104. 
Salmon, kippered, 105. 
Sandwiches, savoury, 107. 
Sardines, broiled, 108. 

— savoury, 109. 

Toast and eggs with bloater 

or potatoes, 125. 
Toast, Bombay, 125. 

— devilled, 126. 
Tunny, 129. 

Twists (see Fancy breads), 46. 

Veal and ham, pressed {see Ham 
and veal, pressed), 57. 

— gateau of, 129. 
Vegetables, curried, 130. 
Venison pasty, 130. 

White sauce {see Sauce, white), 

112. 
Whiting au gratin (see Sole au 

gratin), 117. 

— baked, 131. 

— boiled, 131. 

— fried, 131. 



r. .--r. 



1 



The Largest, Cheapest, and Best Cookery Book. 

Cheap Edition, price $2.50, 

CASSELL^S 

Dictionary of Cookery. 

ILLUSTRATED THROUGHOUT. 



Containing: About 9,O0O Recipes. 

"Cassell's Dictionary of Cookery is one of the most thorough and 
comprehensive works of the kind. To expatiate on its abjindant contents 
would demand pages rather than paragraphs." — The Times, 

''One of the most handsome, practical, and comprehensive books of 
cookery." — Saturday RevUw. 

" It seems to us that this book is absolutely what it claims to be — tl^at is, 
the largest and most complete collection of the kind ever produced in this 
country ; an encyclopaedia, in fact, of the culinary art in all its branches. It 
is a dici()nary which should be in every household, and studied by every 
woman who recognises her true mission in the world," — Christian World. 

" Cassbll's Dictionary of Cookery is not only full of solid and 
valuable information as to the best method of preparing food in an endless 
variety of forms, but it will enable a housekeeper to grasp principles on which 
food may be cooked to the greatest perfection. It supplies the reason why 
one method is right and another wrong. An estimate of the cost of each 
recipe is given, which is valuable information. The recipes themselves are 
given in terms intelligible to the meanest capacity." — Athenctum, 

" Cassell's Dictionary of Cookery contains about 9,000 recipes* and 
is preceded by a treatise on the Principles of Culinary Art and Table Manage- 
ment, which ^ill simply be found invaluable not only by cooks, as those most 
interested in such instructions, but by every mistress of a household, large or 
small. . . . The woodcuts dispersed through the pages not only illustrate 
some of the various species of Hsh, game, fruit, vegetables, and herbs to which 
the recipes refer, but serve to make the directions for carving more intelligible, 
while the coloured plates represent appetising dishes elaborately garnished, or 
fruit tastefully arranged, with several less inviting pictures of ' bad and good 
joints of meat' contrasted with each other side by side." — Morning Post, 

**The best Cookery book extant. We know of no equal, either in the 
arrangement of its contents, the number of its recipes, or the elegance of its 
illustrations." — York Herald, 

''Being; complete, it tells us how to dress a table for the smallest dinner, 
but what I value more in it is that it reminds us of the simplest and cheapest 
of dishes, and gives their cost. There are more shilling or sixpenny prepara- 
tions in this book than those of greater cost." — Western Morning News, 

CASS£LL & COMPANY, Limited, LudgaU Hill, London, 



ISStb Thousand, price 50cts. 

CASSELL'S 

Shilling Cookery. 

This New and valuable Work contains 388 pages, 
crown 8vo, bound in limp cloth. 

"This 18 the largest and most comprehensive work on the subject of 
cookery ever yet published at the price." — Christian Age^ 

** Housekeepers will save many shillings if they follow the practical sug- 
gestions and excellent advice given.*' — Bazaar, 

**Cassbll's Shilling Cookery is certainly the cheapest manual for 
the kitchen we have ever received. There are 360 pages of recipes, the book 
is serviceably bound, and should prove a treasure to any young wife."— 
tVifkfy Times atui Echo, 

CASSELL & COMPANY^ Limitbd, Li44gaU Hill, Lmhn. 



Cheap Edition, ihOO, 
THE 

Lady's Dressing- Room. 

Translated from the French of Baroness Staffs hy 
LADY COLIN CAMPBELL. 

** This is a work which no member of the unbeautified sex should 
be permitted to glance at— except for purposes of review, and no 
member of the beautified should admit that she has glanced at — 
except under the same saving clause. A large circulation amongst 
persons of both sexes is, then, a foregone conclusion. To reveal the 
mysteries of The Lady's Drkssing-Room to the public gaze would 
appear to us to be a betrayal of sacred confidence, but the book has 
been sent to us for review, therefore we are exonerated." — TAe Queen, 

''A book which every woman ought to have, and hide.'' — Th$ 



CASSELL & COMPANY. Limited, Lf$48aie Hill, Lottdm. 



Cheap Edition, limp cloth, SOcts.; cloth boards, %1M0. 

A Year's Cookery. 

Giving Dishes for Breakfast^ Luncheon^ and Dinner for every day 
in the y ear ^ with Practical instructions for their Preparation^ 
and a Special Section on Food for Jnvcilids. 

By PHYLLIS BROWNE. Crown 8vo, 480 pages. 

"A Year's Cookery, by Phyllis Browne, with bills of fare 
for every day in the year, with directions for cooking, for market- 
ing, and for making arrangements for the next day, makes up an 
invaluable present for young housekeepers." — Athenaum, 

" There are many excellent books on cookery, but none that 
contain such a variety of recipes, with such a felicitous arrange- 
ment of things practicable and possible for young housekeepers." — 
Glasgow Daily Mail. 



Cloth gilt, 75et8. 

Cassell's Popular 
Cookery. 

With Four Coloured Plates. 

Vegetarian Cookery. 

By A. G. PAYNE. Cheap Edition, SOcts. 
78th Thousand. Stiff covers, SOcts. ; cloth, 75ct8. 

Etiquette of Good 

Society. 

Edited and Revised by LADY COLIN CAMPBELL. 

''A book which may feirly be coDsidered a recognised anthority. It 
covers the whole of our lives in all their varying phases, and is as pleasantly 
written as it is instructive." — Tki Queen, 

CASSELL & COMPANY, Limitbd, Ltk/gaie ffHt, L^tidm, 



^^ 






v^-^ ^ 



.-■y 









I* 






>;^;''^ 



u */''<' 

^^**/ 



x!^.  



The New Up'to- Date Cookery Book. 

: Strongly bound in clotli, with 
leather back, $2.50. 

OASSELL'S 

ITew Universal Cookery Book. 

By LIZZIE HERITAGE, 

Solder of First- CUiss Diplomas m Cookery and Domestic Economy. 

With Preface by LEONARD GRONENFELDER, 

Chef Grand Hotels London {formerly Chef of the Reform Club), 

Containing 12 Coloured Plates, and numerous Illustrations in 
the Text, Extra crown Svo, ^,344 Pages. 



"This useful cookery book is on the same lines as Mrs. 
Beeton's, though a great improvement on that well-known, 
but now ancient, household treasure, as it is thoroughly 
modern and up to date, not only as to the art of cooking, 
which has made great strides since Mrs. Beeton's days^ 
but as to the look of the dishes and the dec3ration of the 
table. . . . . We think Cassells Kew Cookery Book 
bids fair to become universal in ordinary English house- 
holds." — Saturday Review, 

** * CasselFs New Universal Cookery Book ' is fall of sound 
practical instruction and information, which cannot fail 
to be of the greatest service in all those households in 
which, while good cooking and dainty fare are appre- 
ciated, expense is a matter of consideration, and the 
presiding genius of the kitchen is something less than 
dk cordon bleu," — The World, 

CASSELL & COMPANY, Limited, Ludgate HUl, London. 



Cheap Edition, 75et8. 

Tlie Art of Cooking by (ras. 

By Marie Jenny Sugg. Illustrated. Crown 8vo. 

SOME OPINIONS OF THE PEESS 

" A most useful handbook. . . . Parties about to furnish will 
do well to see what Mrs. Sugg has to say on the subject. Besides 
giving an account of the latest types of gas-stoves, the author 
explains how they are to be used for the production of all the 
dishes likely to be required even in an epicure's family, while the 
recipes will be found equally serviceable where high tJiinking is 
combined with plain living." — St James's Gazette. 

" This book should find a place in all houses where gas stoves 
are used in the kitchen." — Literary World. 

f' The application of gas-heat to food is certainly one of those 
branches of cooking which every woman nowadays would find it 
useful to master. If everyone understood it as well as Mrs. Sugg, 
the prejudice against gas-cooking would soon die out. It is more 
economical, it is cleaner, it is far less trying to the cook, and in 
competent hands it is much more equal and certain in its results 
than the cooking on the old-fashioned ranges. In every recipe in 
this capital and varied collection the management of the gas is 
included, but the recipes themselves^ apart from that speciality, 
are so sound and good that the book will be a valuable guide in 
many a kitchen where there is no gas." — Bradford Observer, 

" * The Art of Cooking by Gas '- is treated in an exhaustive 
and intelligent manner by Marie Jenny Sugg. An introduction 
discusses the merits of gas as a cooking agent. Then the various 
appliances are fully described with diagrams, and general directions 
follow as to operations. The larger portion of the book contains 
carefully compiled menus, with ample special instructions for 
cooking them by gas. The book appears to be excellent for its 
purpose." — Scotsman, 

" Nothing, indeed, ever can or ever will equal the open coal, 
charcoal, wood, or even peat fire for roasting and grilling. But 
even for these the gas stove is far superior to the ordinary roaster 
of the ordinary closed coal range; while for stewing, frying, 
braising, and boiling it cannot be beaten." — Manchester Guardian, 

CASSELL & COMPANY, Limited, LudgaU HUl, Lmdotu 



\ 



Complete in One Volume, clolh, ^5*00; roxburgh, S0,^^« 

The Book of Health. 

A "Volume upon the Science and Preservation of Health in 
every condition and I'elation of life. 

Wifh Practical lUustrations. 

** A standard work of reference to every member of the com- 
munity who is anxious to secure the highest possible d^ree of healthy living 
for himself and for his family." — Lancet. 



Cheap Edition, Revised and Enlarged, %1.25» 

The Ladies' Physician. 

A Guide for Women to the Treatment of their Ailments, 
By A Lqndon Physician, 



Nursing Handbooks. 

By Catherine J. Wood, Lady Superintendent at the Children's 

Hospital, Great Ormond Street. 

A iHlandbook for the Nursinsr of Sick 

Children. %i.OO. 



A iHlandbook of Nursinsr for the 

Home and for the Hospital. 60ct8.; cloth, 
f6ct8. 

- -  111 -  ^.— T^— .i 

Hettsi's; Btartefii* 

Published exclusively by Cassell & Company, embrace over 500 Varieties, 

the prices ranging from 2lfct8» to %3*00m 

Letts' s Publications include: — 

Letts's Daily Housekeeper. Flush, 75cts. 
Letts's Cellar Book. $1.25. 

Letts's Poultry Keeper's Account Book. $1.25. 

New Edition. Edited by Lewis Wright. 

Letts's Family Washing Book, socts. 
&c. &c. &c. 

CASSELL & COMPANY, Limited, Ludgaie Hill, London. 



Entirely Neuu and Up-to-date Work. 

Casseirs Family Doctor. 

A New and Original Work. 
By a medical MAN. 

Demy 8vo, 768 pages, IS. 50. 

'•The arrangement of the contents can scarcely be better, for the diseases 
are arranged according to the age of the patient ; in other words, the pb3rsical 
perils of infancy, childhood, maiarity, and old age. The booh is packed with 
clear and practical hints and directions, and many of them are concerned 
as much with prevention as with core.'' — Shaker, 

" We have the utmost pleasure, as well as complete confidence in recom- 
mending Cassell's Family Doctor, written by a medical man, as a perfect 
mine of valuable information respecting food, water, drink,' ventilation, and a 
hundred o^her things which affect our health. Not only is instruction afforded 
as to the best way to preserve health, but almost every kind of disease is 
dealt with — symptoms, development, and treatment are described in plain 
language, free from technical phraseology as far as possible. The chapters 
dealing with children's diseases, their detection and treatment, will be of special 
value to teachers in their work. Chapters on sick nursing, household surgery, 
accidents, bandaging, prescriptions — all add greatly to the value of the book. 
There is a very copious index. If information such as is here contained were 
only possessed by people generally, much suffering would be prevented, and 
many precious lives would be saved." — Schoolmistress, 

**A most invaluable help and counsellor in all time of individual or 
family illness. The plan of the work is systematic, while the explanations 
are full and simple, and the prescriptions popular in style. No household 
need now be without guidance in the -event of any emergency, and the com- 
moner ailments of life may be warded off without external aid." — 7^ Christian, 

"There can be no more useful book for a country house than Cassell's 
Family Doctor. It is a new book, written, so we are told, by a medical 
man of wide experience and brilliant attainments as a practitioner, and it cer- 
tainly bears evidence of an extended and intimate knowledge of the causes 
and treatment of disease. The book lacks nothing in clearness or conciseness, 
and its directions can easily be followed in any emergency that may arisep "— 
Pail Mall Gazette. 

*'A work of great value to the general public." — Christian Age. 
CASSELL & COMPANY, Limited, Ludgate HUl, Undm. 



"i 






i 



^ 



A FINE . I^ INCURRED IF OntflSTOgp. IS 
BELOW. 



. ,'z ^ A-yn I 




