





, t?-- - 



^ 't^. -.'SS 



/{'^ ^^, 







-■^''f,T*\^^^ -^X^^^r^^'w' ^•^f.'!.^^ 











vV. 



















l' « • • » 














. ^-t 








°o 












^•'- X/ --^i 















rtV . o •• • 



• "^ ♦* 'is 




GUADALOUPE DAIRY COMPANY 



Depot and Creamery 

Fifteenth Avenue and San Bruno Road 



SOME IMPORTANT POINTS FOR CONSUMERS: 

THE GUADALOUPE DAIRY, which is one of the largest Dairies supply- 
ing milk in this City, is conducted with the sole idea and purpose of furnishing 
to its patrons the purest, cleanest and most healthful article that can be pro" 
(juced. To accomplish this it is first essential that the milk shall be taken 
from healthy cows. It is equally essential that the cows should be fed on 
clean and wholesome food. We guarantee these to be facts relative to our cows. 

It is quite as important that the Dairy and all its appliances should b^ 
scrupulously clean. Greater cleanliness than that which marks every de. 
partment of our immense Dairy is not p 




^^^W^^"^' 



sK- - ^'^• 




Partial View of the Extensive Farm and Buildings, and a Small Portion ol the 
Immense Herd of Fine Milch Cows, Quadaloupe Dairy. 



We, the undersigned, Physicians of San Francisco, take pleasure in testi- 
fying to the purity and excellent quality of the milk produced by the Guada- 
loupe Dairy Company, and from our knowledge of the milk, we can con- 
scientiously recommend it as an article of diet. 

D. Albert Hiller. M.D., ion Sutter Street. 

lyuke Robinson, M.D., 2506 Fillmore Street. 
Geo. B. Somers, M.D., 533 Sutter Street. 

W. H. Mays, M.D., 1118 Sutter Street. 

Chas C Wadsworth. M.D., 1104 Van Ness Avenue. 
John Townsend. M.D., iioi Valencia Street. 

Wm. W. Kerr. M.D., 1200 Van Ness Avenue. 



Ceal I^oeK Qoffee apd 5piGe /Hill$ 



Importers aud Manufacturers of 




Highest Gfades of 
Coffees 
Teas and Spices 

All Good Housekeepers Use 
Our 

Vienna Coffee Flavor 



SealMMiMPowfter 



fTRADE MARK. '^ H. 



Ask Your Grocer for it 



GRANDJEAN, Prop. 



419-^421 Jackson St. 



Telephone Black 685 



Eppler's Npw Process Brend.the 
Best Bread Obtainable 

Purity— Cleanliness 



Fppler' 



s 



and 



Bal^ery 
(^09fe(;tioQery 

2806-2808 California St. 

Near Devisadero 
Te\ West 987 San Francisco, Cal, 



Our Baking Room is open io the 
public view, tne ouly one of its kind. 
Ice Cream. Fancy Cakes. Orders for 
Parties and Weddings carefully ex- 
cuted at current prices. 



)\lo.2C|a$5f;i(^If 




Can be attached to any coal or wood 
range. Handsomely tinished in pol- 
ished nickel with sawed burners and 
needle values. Size 11x20 inches. 

Call or Address 

WIESTE^ St CO. 

17 NEW MONTGOMERY ST. 

SAN FRANCISCO 



Established J 872 Telephone Grant 38 

mmt ScDillcr # 

PORK 



A. L. VERMEIL 

Dealer in 

CORNED BEEF 

BEEF TONGUES 

(Schiller's Celebrated Cure) 

FINE SAUSAGES Of Every Description 



Country Homes Supplied 
and Quality Guaianteed 

Stalls: 57 and 59, Union Square Market 

San Francisco, Cal. 

OUR SPECIALTIES: 

Cold Boiled Meats for Picnics, Hunting Parties, Overland 
Lunches, Teas, Luncheons, Evening Parties, Etc. 

Ask Your Grocer for 

HAMS 







Ddicious 
Always Fresh Smoked 

LARD 

Purest, Sweetest, Best 
for family Use 



SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO 

PACKING AND PROVISION CO. 

218-220 FRONT STREET 

SAN FRANCISCO, CAL. 



Frank J. Symmes 

President 



Vandkrlyn Stow 

Secretary 



THOMAS 

DAY 

COMPANY 



GAS and 
ELECTRIC 
FIXTURES and 
SUPPLIES 



THE ONLY 

COMPLETE FACTORY 
ON THE COAST 



A FULL LINE OF GAS AND ELECTRIC STOVES 

Agents 
UrLited States WLail Chiuite 
American IVIeter Company 



725 /r\i8sio9 St., pear 3d, 



San P'rancisco, Cai,. 



VIC. SARTORI I. SARTORI 

I. SARTORI & CO. 







WHOLESALE PRODUCERS AND DEALERS IN 

Pare ]VIilk, Cpeam, Butter and Eggs 

,^^|| Sweet Butter a Specialty 
*''^|| Our Butter Churned Here Daily 

OFFICE AND DEPOT 

411 Taylof Street, San Ffanciseo 

TELEPHONE MAIN 5824 

RANCH— FAIRVILLE, SONOMA COUNTY, CAL. 

Butter and Eggs delivered to families on Mondays.Wednesdays and Saturdays 
This is the only place in the City to get pure Buttermilk 



WHEATINE 



The Cream of Breakfast Foods 



Healthful 



F»ALAXABIvE 



F*URE 



More than 97 per cent. Nutriment 
Highest of any Breakfast Cereal in the Market 

ANALYSIS ON EVERY PACKAGE 



FOR SALE BY ALL FIRST-CLASS GROCERS 

KMPIRB NlIIvLINO CO. 

Proprletora SAN KRANCISCO, CAIv. 



TPhe I^igtit Rtanning 





LOCK STITCH AND 
CHAIN STITCH 

Pre-eminently the 

SEWING MACHINE fOF 

family use. 

Cheap machines, new, 
|2o and upward. 

Second-hand at any 
price you want to pay. 



J. V/. EVANS, 1021 Market St. 



PHONE SOUTH 296 



SOUTH SIDE^ NEAR SIXTH 



THE OTHER WAY 



Respectfully 
Dedicated 
to all good 
Housewives^ 



BY 



ERNEST i^ORBES 



WITH THE COMPUMENTS OF THE 



Published by 

ERNEST FORBES 

415 Post Street, San Francisco 



31202 



COPVRIOHT 1**» 
lY CRNCST FORars 



ALL NIGHTS RCSCRVCO 



TWO ©<>■'•?« »5C!:iV£0. 



( 



MAY 101899 

•5r of Co^f^^'' 



FROM THE PRESS OF 
THE M VSCLL-ROLLINS CO. 
SAN FRANCISCO 



^t^^"^ 



coN'rrzN'rs 



Preface ^ 

The Spoiler ^ 

The Old and the New Way 7 

In Plague Time ^4 

Burners and Valves— Their Use and Abuse 20 

Black Ivory ^3 

Heating by Gas 34 

Mahommet versus Vishnu 3^ 

Instantaneous Heaters 43 

The Power of Luchniee 45 

Broilers 5^ 

Some "Other Ways" 5^ 

An Artistic Innovation 64 

'Awkins at 'Ome • 66 

Table of Comparison between Cost of Cooking by Coal and 

Gas 73 

Table of Comparison of Per Centages in Loss After Cooking. 75 

The Passing of a Landmark 77 

Wrinkles ^^ 

How to Read the Statement of your Gas Meter 82 

Wrinkles '"^4 

Hanuman's Servants 85 

" Don't " 92 

In the Land of the Lamas 93 

Wrinkles 103 

Dainty Dishes 105 

A Plot that P'ailed 1 1 1 



Cojitejits 

PAGE 

Spanish Dishes. 117 

Famine Facts 119 

Bread Baking by Gas 124 

Among the Dacoits 128 

Sweetmeats 135 

A Prison in Paradise 137 

Recipes: — 

Soups r45 

Fish 148 

Meats 151 

Salads 156 

Pickles, Catsup, etc 158 

Puddings 160 

Pastry 168 

Cakes 173 

Ice Cream 1 83 




*__Pis£ 



ace 4 * « 



^e 



OR many years, and continuing through the earlier 
^ centuries, the thought of the inventor has been 
~ turned toward labor saving devices for the benefit 

of man, and in an effort to produce every article of value 
with the least possible labor. It remained for modern 
genius to come to the rescue of the housewife, the 
queen of our American home, and provide her with 
every convenience which would lighten the burdens of 
housekeeping, making pleasant occupation of what was 
once drudgery; producing happier hearts and sweeter 
homes. No greater advancement in lessening cares of 
the kitchen has ever been made than the introduction 
of gas cooking devices. Always ready for use, easy to 
care for, simple, efficient, and economical in operation, 
the Gas Range has ceased to be a luxury, and is now 
generally classed as a necessity by those who are so 
fortunate as to be able to procure gas for fuel. 

The true value of gas as a fuel for domestic purposes 
is known and appreciated alone by those who have used 
it, and cannot well be overestimated. 

The work of introducing gas cooking ranges to the 
public is one of much effort, owing to the popular fallacy 
that its use is accompanied by great expense, and that 
the viands so cooked are tainted by gas. These delu- 
sions are quickly dispelled. As a matter of absolute 
fact, the price at which gas is now sold for fuel clearly 



4 Preface. 

demonstrates that it costs actually less than coal. 
Added to this, its numerous advantages over a coal fire 
make it a most desirable heating agent, as the educated 
public are beginning to discover. Gas for cooking 
recommends itself because it is convenient, clean and 
economical; there is no dust, no soot, no ashes, no 
smoke, no waste heat, and abolutely no danger. 

With thousands of people over the country using gas 
for cooking purposes, the common belief that coal or 
wood is cheaper is being rapidl}' dissipated. 

Facts demonstrate that the use of gas in gas ranges 
is not only a saving, nearly one-half the cost of wood 
or coal, but is also the saving of the food as well. The 
slow, dry process of the coal stove causes a great shrink- 
ing in meats, while the rapid, quick action of the process 
of cooking by gas reduces shrinkage to a minimum. 

The use of gas in gas ranges, saves labor, saves time, 
saves worry, saves money. 

It w411 not be long until artificial gas will not only 
be universally used for cooking purposes, but bed-rooms, 
sitting-rooms and parlors will be heated by it also. The 
extreme rapidity with which heat can be produced on 
necessary occasions is the best argument in favor of its 
use. 

In the winter you have no great desire to disrobe in 
a cold bed-room, but if you have a little gas stove 
attached by a flexible tube to the gas fixture in your 
room, you can heat it in five minutes, so that 3'ou can 
undress comfortably; then turn out the gas, "jump into 
bed, cover up 3'our head," and in the morning the process 
can be repeated. The same rule applies to your sitting 



Preface. 5 

rooms and parlors. If you are going out shopping or 
calling, turn ofi the gas, and when you come back turn 
it on again, and before your wraps are laid aside you 
have the same heat as before, and your house will 
always be neat and clean — and "Cleanliness is next to 
Godliness." You can procure a more even heat with 
gas than with coal. In case of sudden sickness at night, 
and hot water is needed, you have a fully developed 
fire burning at your hand in an instant. 

If you want to save money, an honest investigation 
will convince you that artificial gas is the cheapest and 
safest, cleanest and most economical fuel in use, and 
that after the beginning of the Twentieth Century its 
use will be universal. 




"^7^ 



The S p oiler^ 

(Aftt-r the manner of Rudy^rd Kipling) 

A woman there was and she wrote for the press; 

(As you and I might do.) 
She told how to cut and fit a, dress, 
And how to stew many a savory mess, 
But she never had done it herself, I guess. 

(Which none of her readers knew.) 

O the hour we spent and the flour we spent, 

And the sugar we wasted like sand, 
At the 'hest of a woman who never had cooked, 
(And now we know that she never could cook), 
And did not understand. 

A woman there was, and she wrote right fair, 

(As you or I mig'ht do), 
How out of a barrel to make a chair, 
To be covered with chintz and stufifed with hair, 
'Twould adorn any parlor, and give it an air! 

(And v.-e thought the tale was true). 

O the days we worked and the ways we worked, 

To hammer and saw and hack, 
In making a chair in which no one would sit, 
A chair in which no one could possibly sit, 

Without a crick in his back, 

A woman there was. and she had her fun, 

(Belter than you and I); 
She wrote out receipts, and never tried one. 
She wrote about children — of course, she had none- 
She told us to do what she never had done, 

(And never intended to try). 

And it isn't to toil and it isn't to spoil 

That brims the cup of disgrace — 
It's to follow a woman who didn't know beans, 
(A woman who never had cooked any beans), 

But wrote and was paid to fill space. 

6 



The Old, and the New Way. 

lyD things must give way to new and modern 
science and ingenuity can produce nothing more 
gratefully accepted than those contrivances and 
devices calculated to reduce the labor of the housewife. 
How often, after all, the old saying applies: ^'Man works 
from sun to sun, but woman's work is never done." 
Why is it? Because in the monotonous round of her 
duties she finds her kitchen demands two-thirds of her 
time, most of which is required for culinary work. 

She has kindling and coal to handle, ashes to clean 
up, she must watch her stove constantly that her 
cooking may be right, and it is not strange that in the 

handling of the or- 
dinary coal stove the 
housewife considers 
half her time is spent 
in drudgery. All this 
however is changed 
by the advent of that 
simple and most per- 
fect of all cooking 
devices: The modern 
gas range. 

L<ife is no longer a 

a burden to her. In- 

stead of trudging 

down stairs for coal or wood, all she has to do now is to 

walk over to the matchbox. Instead of going through 




,8 The Other Way. 

that tiresome process of preparing kindling, she simply 
turns on the gas and applies the match. Instead of 
waiting a quarter of an hour for her fire to attain the 
proper cooking heat, she is able to begin cooking at 
once. The meal is prepared in a jiffy and then the gas 
is turned off — there is no more waste of fuel. If her 
son comes in an hour later than her husband for his meal, 
she does not have to keep up a roaring fire in order 
that he may be provided for, but instead, she only 
awaits his arrival and then lights her gas again. His 
meal, too, is prepared in a moment. 

Gas is clean, for there is no smoke, no soot and no 
ashes. It is quick, because the heat is concentrated 
and intense, and it goes right to work. It is econ- 
omical, because it saves dirt and labor; because it does 
in half an hour that which a coal range can barely 
accomplish in two hours, and because it is used 
only when actually needed, while coal burns long after 
its heat is required. Gas is always available and 
operates instantly, a great contrast to the disagreeable 
and time losing process of paper, kindling and coal, 
which attend the starting of a coal range each morning. 
It may safely be stated that an ordinary breakfast can 
be prepared on a gas range in the actual time required 
to get a coal range ready for cooking. 

Another most important point, and one which is 
quickly appreciated by the housewife, is the fact that 
the gas range has two ovens operated with the same 
heat and expense, thus permitting baking to be done 
in the upper oven while roasting is done in the lower. 
To roast meat and bake bread in the ordinary coal 



The Other Way. 



range requires at least two hours' time. Witli a gas 
range, both ovens being used at once, the time neces- 
sary will not exceed three-quarters of an hour. In the 
question of economy this is a most important consicUr- 
ation — here is a saving of time, a saving of labor and 
certainly a saving of fuel. The heat from a gas range 
burner is formed by a mixture of air and gas in propor- 
tions of about 70 and 30. This forms a perfect, smokeless 
combination and blue heat. There are, perhaps, many 
who have in, mentally estimating the expense of a gas 

range, not understood this 
feature and have based 
their calculations on the 
consumption of gas as used 
for lighting. 

It is the design of this 
little work to thoroughly 
explain the theory and 
proper management of the 
gas range, under all con- 
ditions that would ordin- 
arily prevail. As in all things mechanical there 
are certain principles which should be followed in 
the handling of a gas range to secure perfect results. 

A sewing machine cannot do first-class sewing 
unless it is kept in proper condition, nor could we 
expect perfect cooking from a gas range unless 
care is taken to keep it in good order — above all 
things a gas range should be kept clean. One half 
of the labor that is ordinarily spent in cleaning a 
coal range would keep a gas range in perfect order. 




lo TJie Other Way. 

Care should be used to keep the burners and valves 
free from grease — a little soda or benzine used each day 
will be found a quick and easy means for properly 
cle.ining a stove. 

All gas ranges of modern styles are constructed on 
the same principles and are subject to the same condi- 
tions and directions. 

As before explained the heat from the burner of a gas 
range is obtained by the proper mixtures of gas and 
air. 

Each burner is supplied with a valve and air mixer, 
the latter being connected with the valve and having 
openings through which the air is drawn in and 
is mixed with the gas passing to the burner in pro- 
portii)ns of 70 parts air and 30 parts gas. This produces 
a very hot blue flame which is smokeless — were the 
air not mixed with the gas the result would be a 
soft, yellow flame similar to the illuminating flame of 
an ordinary gas jet. 

In order to carry ofif any cooking or combustion odors 
created in the ovens, a flue pipe 3 inches in diameter 
should, if possible, be carried from the range to the 
chimney flue or other outlet from the room. 

The following directions if carefully followed will 
insure perfect results in the use of any modern range. 

Watch your water back burners. 

Don't turn them too high. 

Gas ranges should be cleaned frequently One-halt 
of the labor and time usually devoted to polishing a coal 
stove, would keep a gas range clean and sweet. 

Grease should not be allowed to accumulate about 



The Other Wav. 



II 




A " RELIABLti ' 
The Best Range on Earth 



12 The Other Way, 

the burners and air mixers. These especially should 
be kept free from all matter which would be apt 
to clog or prevent the free passage of air to the 
burner. On this largely depends the perfect combus- 
tion and proper efficiency of the range. Drip pans are 
furnished to catch any overflow or liquid boiling over 
when cooking. These should be frequently and 
thoroughly scoured and all parts of the stove occasionally 
rubbed over with a strong solution of washing soda 
which will quickly remove all grease and other accumu- 
tation 

Gas ranges are made with and without boiler heating 
attachment. The water backs being constructed similiar 
to that in a coal stove, the pipe coil being heated by 
direct heat from two burners which consume on an aver- 
age 30 feet of gas per hour. 

Many people greatly magnify the cost of heating a 
boiler with gas. 

Boilers are usually either 30 or 40 gallon capacity, 
and should heat to a temperature of 120° in from forty- 
five to eighty minutes if the range is properly connected 
and properly handled. 

Many consumers greatly increase their gas bill by 
frequently heating a boiler full of hot water when only 
a few gallons are required for dish washing. 

This amount of water could be heated by a kettle on 
the top of the stove much quicker and with a trifling 
expense. 

It would be difficult to estimate the number of flat 
stoves without ovens, (called hot plates) now in use in 
this city. 



The Other Way. 



13 




These are made with 
one, two and three burn- 
ers, and are supplied by 
tubing connected to the 
kitchen gas jet. 
<^as Shelf They are also made so 

as to be permanently bolted to French ranges and 
other coal burning stoves, in these cases being connected 
with iron pipe. 

Ask your friend who has one, whether she could 
afford to dispense with it. 

She will say that without it she would not feel able 
to keep house, and it is easy to understand why. 




A Household Necessity. 

To Destroy ^n<s.— Sprinkle powdered borax or powdered cloves 
around the infected places. This is also good for cockroaches. 

To Clean Brass.— Mi^ i oz. soft soap, and 2 oz. rotten stone. 

To Clean Gilt Frames— Moisten a sponge with oil of turpentine, 
brush gently, and allow to dry. 

To Clean Gloves —I'lsice in vessel with benzine, shake thoroughly, 
and warm the gloves until benzine has all evaporated. 



^ In Plague Time ^ ^ 

|f/ N the thickly populated towns and districts of India the out- 
I break of cholera is often so sudden and virulent that the 
^ slight precautionary measures taken by the authorities dur- 
ing the summer months are practically worse than useless. 

Although experience has shown that, like other diseases, the 
extent of the diffusion of choilera is in no small degree depend- 
ent on local sanitary conditions, and it is therefore essential that 
every town and district should be presesrved in a state of con- 
stant preparation to meet a danger which may come at any time 
like a thief in the night, the Government of India has only seen 
fit, up to date, to place its two great sea-port towns in good 
sanitary order, and has entirely neglected all the large inland 
cities. 

I think it will be generally conceded by people who have lived 
long in India that the most virulent and destructive epidemic of 
cholera that ever visited India was the Purnea epidemic of July, 
1SS7. 

I had been staying in Purnea for a few weeks in June of that 
year and had packed up preparatory to leaving for Darjeeling 
for the summer months, when as I rode over to see Dr. Sanders, 
the civil surgeon of the station, I heard the monotonous chant 
of some coolies who were carrying a palki (palanquin) and com- 
ing in my direction. I stopped the coolies and asked them who 
was inside the palki, when to my surprise, they told me that they 
were carrying the "burra hakim sahib," or in other words, Dr. 
Saucers himself, over to my bungalow, as he was sick with 
cholera. I at once ordered them to proceed with all possible 
haste and galloped on ahead to make preparations for his ar- 
rival. Within a very short time the palanquin arrived, but when 
we opened the curtains to lift the poor fellow out of the palki, 
the native hearers drew back with fright and horror depicted on 
their faces. The doctor was dead, and they, Hindoos of a good 
raste. had been carrying a dead man. Imagine my position, left 

'4 



The Other Way. 15 

alone with a dead friend, with not a soul to help me lift his body 
from the palki, where it was standing in the blazing noonday 
sun and the flies settling in myriads upon his face and body. 
Thus began the dread plague of Purnea, with the doctor for its 
first victim. 

I at once sent runners with the information to the magistrate, 
commissioner and commanding ofifiicer of the district and dis- 
patched a man on horseback to a neighboring indigo planter 
with a note, asking the planter to come over as fast as his horse 
would carry him. Mr. Murray, the planter, arrived within two 
hours and with his help I managed to carry the body into the 
house to await burial. In the evening the commissioner arrived 
and we made arrangements to bury the doctor in the little con- 
tonment cemetery; but so great was the terror among the 
natives, who had all been informed of the outbreak of cholera, 
tihat we could not find one who would even help to dig the grave. 
Importunities, threats, the ofifer of money, all were of no avail. 
They absolutely refused to go into the cemetery, still less would 
they dig a grave, and at eleven o'clock at night Mr. Murray, the 
assistant superintendent of police, the deputy conservator of the 
Forest and I made a start to dig the grave and by five o'clock in 
the morning we had placed reverently in the grave the body of 
one of the most self-sacrificing men who ever lived. On our 
arrival at the town in the morning, we heard from the Doctor's 
servants that he had been called by a poverty stricken native, 
whose son was ill, at about ten o'clock at night, and that the 
Doctor had stayed with the bo}^ who was suffering from chol- 
era, all night long. The boy recovered, but at the expense of 
the Doctor's life. 

During the day of our arrival in the town after burying the 
Doctor, our ears were assailed with the horribly mournful death 
chant of the Hindoos, "Ram! Ram! Sita Ram!" and with the 
constant monotonous dirge of the Mahommedans: "La Allah 
illah Allah!" We could see the Hindoos hurrying their dead 
along to the burning ghauts and the Mahommedans carryingtheir 
dead brethren to the mosque, where the muezzins blessed them 
from the minarets. The plague was raging, and as there was no 



1 6 The Other Way. 

doctor in the town, the commissioner asked me if I would take 
the duty until another surgeon of the civil service, who had been 
telegraphed for arrived. I assented, little knowing what a ter- 
rible time I should have before the other doctor arrived. 

Indigo factories, barns, any buildings that could be obtained 
for the purpose, were speedily converted into emergency hospi- 
tals, but only the very lowest castes of natives took advantage 
of European medical treatment. It was impossible to induce a 
high caste Hindoo to enter the hospital. Directly he was at- 
tacked with the dread disease a Brahmin priest was sent for, and 
the incantations and ceremonies necessary, according to the 
Hindoo idea, for salvation, were performed, and the wretched 
victim was left to die. With some of the Mahommedans the 
case was difTerent. They would send to the dispensary for 
medicine, and having obtained it, they would at once carry it to 
the moolah of a neighboring mosque, who would pronounce it 
good or bad as he saw fit. If he pronounced it good, he would 
scribble a verse from the Koran on a piece of paper and then tie 
it around the neck of the bottle to act as a charm, and so insure 
the efficacy of the drugs.. If, on the other hand, the moolah 
pronounced the medicine bad, the natives would destroy it, the 
while cursing the hated feringhees who had given it to them. 

But still, there was work enough for twenty doctors, had they 
been there. The natives were dying like flies, and during the 
first five days of the epidemic, more than three thousand people 
had succumbed. Those of them who were poor and had no 
friends were left unburied, and an awful stench began to per- 
vade the whole native quarter of the town. The burying ghauts 
were sending up their thick, horrible smoke day and night, the 
Mahommedan cemeteries were full of unburied corpses, and a 
black cloud of hawks and vultures hovered over head all day. 
At every available plot of ground the Hindoos were performing 
poojahs, (religious ceremonies) to Kali, the goddess of cruelty, 
whose vengeance they imagined the plague to be. The mosques 
were crowded by ^Mahommedan natives, who thought that by 
taking shelter in the sacred edifies they would escape the death 
which awaited them if they remained at home in their own huts. 



The Other Way. ty 

But the mosques soon became veritable charnel houses. Men 
who had been stricken rushed to the mosque to pray that God 
and his prophet would cure them, but the disease was stronger 
than their prayers, and they died as they prayed. 

No one would bury them or carry tbeir dead bodies out of the 
mosques, and at last, owing to the dreadful stench of the fast 
decomposing bodies, the very moolahs and muezzins deserted 
their posts. 

I shall never forget one dreadful incident of that plague. I 
was riding at a fast pace from one emergency hospital to an- 
other some two miles distant, when I passed a small clearing 
which was crowded with Konds, who are a very low-caste of 
natives from the Kond-Mahals, near Orissa. They were yelling 
and shouting in a fiendish manner, and seemed terribly excited. 
I pulled up and questioned one of them as to what was taking 
place. The only answer I could obtain, was that it was a "fine 
sight." I pushed my way into the crowd and saw a kind of 
wooden altar erected in the middle of the clearing, on which lay 
a boy of about four years of age. A Kond priest stood near the 
altar with a long knife in his hand, and before I realized what 
was going to take place, the fiend plunged his knife into the 
child's heart. The men were worked up to such a pitch of 
fiendish excitement that it was highly dangerous to say a word 
to any of them. But I recognized one of them, who was a 
coolie on a neighboring indigo plantation, and later in the day 
he confessed, on being threatened with death, that the child's 
mother had died that morning and the Konds had stolen the 
child to ofTer it up as a sacrifice to their deity. The principals 
were never arrested, as within two days nearly every Kond, 
owing to their filthy habits of eating putrid fleshy etc., had suc- 
cumbed to the plague. 

The misery and destitution of the natives was indescribable. 
The stores were all closed, and food had to be brought from 
long distances by bullock carts; sometimes carts going from 
Purnea to obtain supplies were met on the road with the drivers 
laying dead with the reins in their hands. But, in the midst of 
all the horrors of the terrible pestilence, there were men who 



1 8 The Other Way. 

thought only of gain. For instance, on my way to town one 
morning, I saw some native women who were washing clothes 
that had been worn by their children who had died of cholera. 
They were standing up to their waists in a large pond, and a 
milkman who was passing stopped and chatted with them for 
some time. I watched him, as all milk coming into the town 
was eagerly bought up by the natives, and the hospitals were 
very short of that indispensable article of diet; so I thought 
that when he had finished his conversation I migUt induce him 
10 sell his milk to the hospitals instead of selling it in the 
bazaar. To my horror and disgust, I saw him take his vessels 
of milk to the water's edge and dilute the milk with water from 
the pond in which the women were washing infected clothes. 

I need hardly say that the milk never went into the town, but 
the man did go to jail for fifteen years. 

About eight days after the first outbreak of the pestilence the 
deaths became fewer and the natives began to come into the 
town again from the surrounding country, but they could not 
remain, for the stench of decaying bodies was so awful that it 
was a matyrdom for any man to have to endure it for a day. 
In one day on the outskirts of the town I counted no less than 
seven hundred and three unburied bodies. Matters could not go 
on in this way, and the government was wired to for instruc- 
tions for the disposal of the dead. The only answer we re- 
ceived was: "Burn and bury as fast as possible." 

It was all very well to say burn and bury, but who was going 
to do it? Not a native for miles round could be obtained for 
this work, and at last the Deputy Conservator of Forests pro- 
posed that his elephants should knock the huts down on the 
top of the bodies, &*nd that the huts should then be set on fire. 
To get rid of the fearful odor and the annoyance of the myriads 
of vultures which settled on every housetop, gorged to satiety 
with human flesh, the Commissioner was almost compelled to 
adopt the Deputy Conservator's suggestion. At any rate, 
twenty-five elephants came down from the kheddah that after- 
noon, and about sixty low caste Sonthals, forest department 
employees. Under threats and promises of large backsheesh 



The Other Way. 19 

the Sonthals were induced to stick a hook which was attached to 
a long chain into the bodies of victims which v/ere lying some 
distance from their huts, and then the chain was attached to the 
elephant who drew the corpse to the door of the hut. Time 
and time again the hook would come away from the decomposed 
body to the intense disgust of the Sonthal and the elephant. At 
last a mass of bodies about three feet high, and thirty feet long 
had been piled up, and the elephants then set to work to push 
the huts down onto the seething mass of corruption. The noble 
brutes seemed to know what was required of them and worked 
with a will. They dragged tons of wood and brush and piled 
it on the heap, and I saw one old tusker, who could not get 
some tree trunks into place, obtain help from a younger elephant 
who was working near by. At last the dreadful work was 
finished and about a dozen barrels of petrol>eum were emptied 
over the heap, and the Sonthals then set fire to it. The vultures 
who had seen all that had been done, moved away from the 
place, their horrible croak soon fading away into the distance. 
jSut at night the jackals made the place resound with their 
fiendish noise as they quarrelled among them selves over the 
remains of some dead child or man. 

As the plague diminished, the natives returned to their old 
occupations, some richer, some poorer, but not any of them 
mounring for those they had lost. 

But what would you, Sahib? Kismet! 



1— 

r 







A ' Sick-Room " Hot Plate. 



Burners and Valves — ^Their Use 
and Abuse^ 

^:^ 

HE accompanying sketch shows the usual style of 
valve and the air mixer, through which the gas 
is supplied to burner. It will be seen that 
the gas passes through and on to the burner in a small 
stream, the pressure of the gas and the small orifice 
through which it is forced, causing it to pass with 

great velocity. 

With it is drawn the air, 
generally in the proportion 
of seven parts to one of 
gas. It is this combination 
which forms the blue, 
smokeless flame, and the greatest efl&ciency of heat. 
The gas is controlled by the valve. 
The air is governed by the shutter which is shown 
on the face of the mixer. 

As a rule, the shutter should be open. 
Bad combustion, or, in other words, a yellow, smoky, 
odorous flame, results from an imperfect mixture of the 
gas and air. 

This may come from several causes, viz. : Lack of air 
supply, shutters closed too much, lack of velocity of the 
gas, the pressure being reduced by devices on the meter 
which cuts off" the gas. 

Stoves cannot be efficient without proper supply. It 





The Other Way, 21 

often happens with a lack of gas, and with air shutters 

entirely open that 

a burner "fires 

back," or, in other 

words, the flame 

b ack s up and 

ignites in the air mixer where gas enters, the light 

shooting through to the burner, causing a disagreeable 

odor, and a smoky flame. 

When this occurs, turn off" gas and re-light. If the 
hurner continues to fire back, close the shutters slightly 
until burner works right. It may be mentioned that 
in many instances firing back and other burner troubles 
result from burners being allowed to get covered with 
matter which clogs burner holes, and prevents free exit 
of gas, or grease and other accumulations on the air 
mixer, preventing full supply of air to mix with gas 
as it enters. 

Cleanliness is absolutely necessary for the perfect and 
satisfactory usage of a gas range. Clean often with hot 
soda and water. 

A soft, blowing sound sometimes emanates from a 
burner, especially when but one is lighted on the stove. 
This is the result of an abundance of air, and need not 
alarm the operator. If the burner does not fire back, it 
will make the flame all the hotter. Do not turn on too 
much gas. 

A clean, blue flame, moderately high, will do more 
work than a large, yellow one, and is far cheaper. 

It is true that here, too much haste makes waste. 

Don't expect too much. 



22 



The Other Way. 



Give the stove a chance. 

Small leaks are sometimes reported near the valve 
wheels, or front of the stove. These usually are caused 
by the packing nut of the valve loosening by con- 
stant use, and can be quickly and easily tightened up 
with a turn of a small wrench, with which most modern 
ranges are supplied. 

All ranges are fitted with a very small burner called 
a simmering burner. For all long boiling — vegetables, 
soups, stews, etc., this will be found a most economical 
feature. 




A Tailor's Perfect Iron Heater. 



To Clean Marble.— Mix three parts each of powdered chalk and 

pummice stone, with six parts of soda; then rinse with soap 

and water. 
To Clean Matting.— W&sh with weak solution of salt and water. 

Dry well with cloth. 
To Prevent Mildew.— Vlacc earthen dish full of quick lime in the 

damp closets, or other places, where it occurs. 



Black Ivory* 

ESPITE the strenuous exertions of the commanders of the 
gunboats which are sent by the different nations to cruise 
about the Persian Gulf to suppress the slave trade, the e 
is to-day just as much slaving done there as ever there 
has been. From Muscat to Bussorah on the Shat-el-Arab there 
are slave markets in every town of importance, and it is impos- 
sible to visit the house of any merchant of standing without 
finding distinct and conclusive evidence that the traffic in black 
flesh and blood still exists. 

I left Kurrachee on a journey to Bagdad on the S. S. Purulia. 
Our first port of call was Muscat, the ruler of which city is a 
Bedouin Arab who styles himself a Sultan. He is known to 
possess a very large number of slaves, and although the port 
and its maritime approaches are carefully watched by the gun- 
boats, the capture of a slave dhow is an uncommon event. And 
yet there are hundreds of slaves in the place; how are they 
smuggled in? 

My visit to Muscat was the first to a place where slavery 
really existed, and as I looked at the negroes working about the 
place, I could hardly believe that they were owned by the people 
for whom they worked. The first day I was ashore, I was 
leisurely wending my way in the direction of the Sultan's palace, 
and I was considerably astonished when an old and very cour- 
teous Arab approached me and invited me to visit his home. 
I had never seen the man before and I naturally enquired of him 
why he did me so much honor, seeing that we were utter 
strangers to each other. The Arab, whose name I subsequently 
found was Sheik Hassan-ben-Ezra, gravely and courteously re- 
plied: "that he had heard that the efifendi was a servant of the 
British Government and would be likely to make a stay of some 
months in Muscat. Would not the effendi require servants? 
Naturally. Who could supply him so well as Sheik Hassan- 
23 



24 The Other Way. 

ben-Ezra? Would not the effendi mount a well trained ass and 
journey to the house of his servant, where Allah be praised, 
there was sweet, cool water to drink and dates of the finest to 
eat? Surely. The prophet would direct the steps of the eflfendi 
aright and turn his footsteps in the direction of the house of his 
servant." 

My curiosity (or was it the courteous insistence ot Hassan- 
ben-Ezra?) got the better of me, and I mounted the well train- 
ed ass, which, by the way, bit at me like a vicious bull dog as 
I mounted, and journeyed to the house of the supplier of ser- 
vants. 

When we arrived at the door of his dwelling, I dismounted, 
and an enormous negro approached and took charge of the ass. 
Hassan-ben-Ezra with dignified Eastern politeness invited me to 
enter his abode. The outside of the house consisted of mud 
walls of great thickness, and was altogether unprepossessing; 
but as we entered the courtyard, I was struck with the truly 
beautiful appearance of the interior. Around the courtyard were 
p&lms and fig trees, and a magnificent vine trellised from pillar 
to pillar, formed a grateful green wall, which sheltered the occu- 
pants of the house from the heat of the sun, which is intense 
during the day time. In the center of the courtyard was the 
usual well, this one being hewn out of solid rock to a great, 
depth. A slave came to draw water and my friend, Sheik Has- 
san-ben-Ezra, invited me to watch the vessel sink to the bottom 
of the well. The depth was so great that it was impossible to 
see the bucket at the bottom, but as soon as it was brought to. 
the surface, the Arab offered me a brass cup and told me, in the 
name of God, to drink of the coolest and sweetest water in Mus- 
cat — and he spoke the truth. The water was icy cold and de-, 
liciously sweet, and I then understood that the possession of 
such a well in that country meant wealth to the owner thereof, 
for the water always sold at a good price. 

A carpet was now brought into the courtyard and on this we 
seated ourselves. The inevitable cofTee, cigarettes, and hookahs- 
were brought to us, and we then began to discuss the question 
of servants. "No doubt," said Sheik Hassan, ''the effendi will 



The Other Way. 25 

require a maid servant to prepare coffee, and also a strong man 
to attend to his horses; also a body servant; all of whom he had 
present in the house. Would the effendi have the goodness to 
look at the very best kind of servants?'* 

I signified my willingness to oblige him in this direction, and 
clapping his hands loudly as a signal to his servants, a young 
w^oman was brought out for inspectiorL She was a negress, and 
could not have been more than sixteen years of age. She was 
marked on each arm with three long scars, the Sheik's private 
mark of possession. Her owner went into ecstacies over her 
"good points;" she was good-tempered, strong and willing, and 
Holy Prophet! what coffee she could make! He finished up by 
addressing her thus: "Would you not like, oh Ayesha, my sweet 
lamb, to serve the effendi? He is even like unto the faithful, for 
does he not drink coffee, and use that best gift of God, tobac- 
co, and wilt thou not prepare the grateful hookah with clever 
fingers?"- 

Poor Ayesha smirked and smiled and looked exceedingly un- 
comfortable, but answered something in very broken Arabic, 
which I took to mean that she would serve anybody so that she 
might escape from her master's clutches. The Arab then or- 
dered her to retire, and two negroes were brought out to go 
through their paces for my edification. They were certainly 
magnificent specimens of physical manhood, but I could see 
immediately that their fetters had only just been taken off, as 
fheir ankles were sore, and in some places bleeding. The old 
Sheik expatiated at great length on the condition of these "ser- 
vants," and after they had retired, I asked him to name the 
\ rice he wanted for them. The old rascal was much too wily to 
be caught or tricked into admitting himself to be a slave dealer, 
and he explained to me that the law did not allow him to sell 
them., but that as he had contracted for their labor for a long 
term of years he could, and was anxious, to "lease" them to me 
for a- like period, in consideration of his receiving a stipulated 
sum, to be paid to him in Indian rupees or Turkish liras. After 
a lot of haggling about the price, which I kept at such a figure 
that I knew he would not accept, I left him and made my way 



26 The Other Way. 

to the office of the British Consul, to whom I related what I 
had seen at the Shiek's house, and asked him if he could not 
procure the release of the slaves. He informed me that he had 
no power to do so, and even if he had the power, it would be 
an almost impossible job to prove that they were slaves, for the 
Sheik would, no doubt, have papers, duly authenticated, show- 
ing that he had "leased" the "servants" from some Arab of po- 
sition in the interior. The consul further told me of a mission- 
ary who had tried to stop the buying and selling of slaves, more 
especially young girl slaves, but had met with no success, the 
very food sellers refusing to supply him with tlie necessaries of 
life, for interfering with matters, which, they said, did not con- 
cern him. "So," said the consul quoting an old Arab proverb, 
"he is high minded but empty bellied." 

It was not until we arrived at Lingha, some two days later, 
that I learned how the slaves were smuggled into the towns 
from the slave dhows. At this place I met a young Greek who 
rejoiced in the p?lronymic of Negroponti. He was a dealer in 
pearls, and Lingha i"? the principal port of shipment of all pearls 
taken in the Persian Gulf pearl fisheries. Whether he dealt in 
slaves as well, is, with me, quite an open question; for he 
seemed exceedingly well posted on all the doings of the local 
slave dealers. He informed me that the captains of the slave 
dhows, some of whom, to their eternal shame, be it said, were 
Greeks and Levantines, who had become converted to Mahom- 
medanif^m, landed heir cargoes at night, and kept the wretched 
slaves in caves and rocky fastnesses along the coast sometimes 
for weeks together, the dhows meanwhile, making their way into 
port, where they landed three parts of their crews. The dhows 
were then sailed back short handed to where the slaves had been 
put ashore and there made up the full complement of their 
crews with slaves. They then returned to port. Had they been 
overhauled by a gunboat, they could not have been seized, for 
there was only the crew and apparently no slaves on board. By 
making a good many trips of this kind, the slave dealers could 
pass into he country large cargoes of slaves with absolutely no 
feai of detection. Of course, there was great risk of their be- 



The Other Way. 27 

ing captured if they tried to land a whole cargo at once at any 
of the Gulf ports, and it was quite risky eniough, so Negroponti 
declared, to land the slaves at the different points where the 
caves and hiding places were situated. So enthusiastic did he 
become about the profits which were to be made in the "busi- 
ness," that I had severe doubts as to whether some of his very 
evident prosperity was not in some measure due to 'his having 
at odd times engaged in the illicit traffic. However, this might 
be, he had no less than nine "servants" at his very small house 
where he could not possibly have employed them, for he lived 
like an arab as regards both food and clothing, and as all the 
"servants" were marked with numerous cicatrices on arm and 
back, I have no doubt that they had been, if they were not at 
that time, slaves. 

At Lingha, as at Muscat, it was possible to buy, or rather, I 
should say, "lease" any number of "servants," and at this port 
the traffic is carried on even more openly than at Muscat. I went 
to see some of the servants here, and one old arab had for sale 
a negress with red hair and blue eyes. She would have made a 
fortune for an enterprising showman. Her owner was quite 
willing to dispose of her very cheaply, for she was not to the 
taste of arab buyers. I thought her rather a fine looking 
woman, and said so to her owner. He did not agree with mc, 
and after saying that perhaps unbelievers would think she was 
beautiful, he ended his remarks, arab-like, with a proverb: "that 
even a worm was a beauty in the eyes of its mother." This 
same old boy was rather a sharp wag, for on Negroponti ques- 
tioning him as to where he procured the "servants," and making 
remarks the reverse of complimentary about them, the arab re- 
plied, "My son my hair is white with the weight of years, and 
you are but a child. Listen to my words. Do not place your- 
self between the onion and its skin, for you will not escape there- 
from without being tainted with the odor," meaning to say, that 
Negroponti should not know anything, or profess to know any- 
thing, about either slaves or slaves dealers, or he might be ac- 
cused of being in the "business" himself. 

After leaving Lingha, our next port of call was Bushire, the 



28 The Other Way, 

sea-port of he land of the Lion and the Sun — Persia. At anchor 
in the roads here I had the pleasure of seeing Persia's only man- 
of-war. She had been an old Englir.h cargo steamer, and had 
been bought and lransforiT>ed into a parody of a fighting vessel 
by the Shah. She was commanded by an old German sea-dog 
who had to be carried jJ>out by "servants'* owing to a terrible 
attack of gout, fie informed me that he had "leased" these ne- 
groes, and that they had been with him for some years. As to 
his vessel, he could get five knots of speed out of her if he took 
a great risk of the boilers bursting, and as the man-of-war had 
been in commission, and he in command of her, for nine years, 
and during that time she 'had never once been in dry-dock, it was 
conceivable that the vessel was practically useless for stopping 
slaving. At this place I experienced considerable difficulty in 
finding men who had servants to lease. Bushire is a very large 
town, and there are a considerable number of Europeans living 
there; consequently the arabs keep the trade as secret as pos- 
sible. One Persian Arab offered me some young negroes, but 
I only saw one oi them and he was a eunuch. Nevertheless, this 
town is a great center of the slave trade in the Persian Gulf. 

Leaving Bushire at five o'clock one afternoon, we arrived at 
the mouth of the Shat-el-Arab, a branch of the Euphrates, the 
next morning at nine. We had taken an Arab pilot at Bushire, 
but he was nearly, or quite useless, to the captain of our vessel. 
Ilf, was a "hadji," or a man who had made the pilgrimage to 
Mecca, and consequently, a very holy individual. Every two or 
three hours he would flop down on his knees and recite sundry 
prayers to the prohpet in a very high pitched voice, to the in- 
tense disgust and annoyance of the captain. Now and again, the 
pilot's "servant" would bring his master a hookah and some 
cofTee, when the pilot, with true Arab hospitality, would invite 
the captain to share the good things. I need hardly say that 
our skipper promtply declined the invitation every time, to the 
apparent astonishment of the pilot. At last, however, we an- 
chored just outside the bar, and a small steamer came alongside 
to relieve our vessel of some two hundred tons of ca'-go, so that 
we might be light enough to pass up the river to Bussorah. 



The Other Way, 29 

Here again I noticed that a great many of the stevedores labor- 
ers were marked with scars on arms and backs as a sign that 
they were slaves. I enquired of one of them as to whether he 
was really a slave or only a contract laborer, but his Arabic was 
so broken and incoherent, that I was unable to obtain any in- 
formation from him. 

The quarantine officer at Bussorah was a Greek, and from 
him I learned that all the men and women who were disfigured 
with scars on their backs and arms were, in reality, slaves, work- 
ing for their owners and receiving only the food which they eat, 
and the few filthy rags they wore in return for their labor. 

I should be inclined to say that Bussorah, the sea-port of 
Turkish Arabia, has changed very little, if at all, since the days 
of the first of the Caliphs. The bazaars are situated in immense 
tunnels, on each side of which are niches about six feet square. 
These very small spaces are occupied by arab storekeepers, with 
here and there a Yahoudi, or Jew money-changer, clothed in the 
yellow gaberdine which his race are here forced to wear. A most 
unpleasant odor is at all times prevalent in the bazaars, owing 
to decomposed fruit and fish which is thrown out into the mid- 
dle of the road. Camels, donkeys, and horses rush down the 
middle of the tunnel scarcely giving one time to step aside to 
avoid being run down. Occasionally one sees a band of fierce 
looking Bedouins passing along, stopping here and there to 
make purchases, mostly gunpowder and caps, or cheap Man- 
chester goods. At each corner of the several bazaars stands a 
Turkish policeman, a very dirty, slipshod looking individual for 
a guardian of the peace, armed with rifle, bayonet and sabre. 
These police officers seemed to have a very summary manner 
of enforcing their orders to "clear the roads." I noticed a very 
old Jew crossing the bazaar when a Turkish official, preceded 
by the two regulation eunuchs was riding along. The police- 
man yelled to the Israelite to get out of the way, but I suppose 
that he was deaf and did not hear. At any rate, the officer did 
net speak a second time, but crossing over to the Jew, he hit 
him a most unho'ly whack with the stock of his rifle right in the 
middle of the back, and sent the poor fellow sprawling. No no- 



30 The Other Way. 

tice f»f this was taken by the bystanders, and it did not appear 
to be anything out of the common. 

The brokers for the slave dealers in Bussorah were mostly — 
save the mark — chemists and druggists, of whom there were a 
great many in the bazaars. I wandered into one of these drug 
stores, the proprietor of w*hich was a very grave looking Arab, 
tie told me that he was the best "hakim" in the town, and had 
performed numberless cures little short of miraculous, and 
would, if I so desired, prepare me a charm to guard me against 
all sickness and evil. On the other side of the bazaar there was 
also a drug store, the proprietor of which kept his eyes fixed 
upon us intently. I paid no attention to him, but listened to 
what my friend the hakim had to say. 

We were still engaged together in "melancholy but energetic 
conversation," when suddenly I saw the other druggist assume 
an expression of respect, mingled with intense expectancy. He 
made toward me, pressed my arm, and with a confidential wink, 
invited me to enter his store. I went. My departure consider- 
ably disturbed the equanimity of my friend the "hakim." and af- 
ter hurling insult after insult with gatling-gun rapidity at my 
new friend, he finished by saying, in a very grave voice: "God 
bless your mother. She was a great deal more profligate than 
>our father." This last insult seemed to settle the matter, and 
I then turned to look at my new friend. 

What a queer looking devil he was! Encased in a loose, gin- 
ger-bread colored burnouse, which no doubt harbored a colony, 
en his feet a wretched pair of slippers, most tragically cracked 
in sundry places, a pair of gloomy looking eyes rolling beneath 
the undulating folds of a "KafTeah." or turban, which had once 
been white, while the hollow notes of a doleful voice wound 
their way out of his throat through a reed pen which he was 
champing between his teeth. 

"Look there!" said my new friend, Omar-ben-Achmet, point- 
ing a long, lean forefinger in the direction of his opponent, "look 
there, and the efTendi, who can sift truth from lies, will see the 
greatest liar in all the realms of the Padishah!" He told me 
that the account given by the medicine vender opposite of the 



The Other 'Way. 31 

miraculous cures he had effected was a long tissue of lies. His 
opponent, he said, was an empirical shoemaker and a liar; but 
that he! Omar-ben- Achmet! was the hakim par excellence of 
Bussorah. He possessed innumerable recipes for the cure of 
cataract, and he could allay fever with a verse from the Koran 
and a piece of burnt cork. He knew, also, how to concoct a 
variety of apocryphal beverages under the name of cooling 
drinks, but nobody but an Arab could by any possibility swallow 
them, for the odor from them was fearfully disgusting. Heaven 
alone knew the formulae of those horrible potions. According 
to himself, this Omar-ben-Achmet was a universal panacea. For 
every disease he knew a remedy, and if anything could surpass 
his science, it was his desire to make himself useful to me. 

At last it came to the all important question of "servants," 
and Omar-ben-Achmet pressed me to accompany him to the 
house of a friend of his, who, he said, had splendid "servants" 
to "lease." Calling to a neighbor to attend to his "dukhan" or 
store, Omar-ben-Achmet and I sallied forth together. Now, 
Omar's opponent had not quite recovered his good temper yet, 
and he called to me, "Follow the owl, effendi, and he will lead 
thee to a ruined place!" At this, a lot more bickering oc- 
curred, until at last, Omar became tired of it and limped toward 
me. Up till this time I had not noticed that he was lame, but 
my attention was quickly drawn to the fact by our old friend 
hurling another Arab proverb at Omar: "Among wonderful 
things is a sore-eyed person who is an oculist." This was too 
much for Omar, and he made his way at such a rapid rate that 
I could hardly keep up with him. 

After a walk of about half a mile we arrived at the house 
where the "servants" we«-e on view. There were two women 
and five men, all of them suffering from that scourge of Arabia 
— opthalmia. Of course, this was a very good excuse for my 
not doing any "business," and Omar, rather crestfallen, begged 
me to accompany him to another "friend's" house. This I de- 
clined to do that day, and suggested that we should refresh our- 
selves at a coffee shop instead. Omar cheerfully acceded to my 
proposal, more especially as it was not going to cost him any- 



32 The Other Way. 

thing. The coffee served at these establishments is certainly de- 
licious, but excessively strong, and only one accustomed to 
drink it can partake of three or four cups. A fragrant hookah 
is served to you with your coffee, and one can pass a very de- 
lightful hour in the coffee shop divan watching the tide of life 
pass by. 

It was at this coffee shop that I saw my first Arab troubadour. 
The profession of ballad singing appears to have superseded, as 
a means of parasitical existence, the old family poets ^.nd Arab- 
ian story tellers. The troubadour is now the lion of all coffee 
houses he has his hookah and coffee at a multitude of divans. 
He enjoys the privilege of entrance into all courtyards, whether 
great or small. He is considered and treated as a neutral be- 
ing, of no possible consequence to anybody. The trade of 
troubadour requires, moreover, no other capital, or stock in 
trade than an ancient burnouse, and a voice a great deal the 
worse for wear. My troubadour was a short, thick-set man, 
with huge rounded shoulders, fat black cheeks, ornamented 
with old cicatrices of small pox, and an abdomen protruding 
like that of a captain in the National Guard. Nothing on earth 
could be more amusing than to watch the pains this corpulent 
minstrel took with himself, in order to impart to his black, joy- 
ous face a melancholy, languishing, or die-away expression, so 
as to harmonize with the songs which he sang. I could hardly 
refrain from laughing outright to hear him complaining of his 
"misery," his "despair," "his journey towards the tomb," and 
the "frail tenure of his existence." Of a verity, Hercules with 
the distaff is not a whit more ridiculous than Hercules singing 
love songs. 

His songs, to Arab ears, must have been much above par^ for 
the audience all gravely applauded when he finished, and one 
noble looking old Arab invited him to drink coffee with him, 
and smoke his hookah. At ihis, the troubadour, unable to con- 
ceal his gratitude, burst forth into song, eulogising the Arab and 
his family for their "magnificent generosity." During my stay 
in Bussorah, which lasted two weeks, I made a point of seeing 
my minstrel every day, so much did I enjoy watching his nat- 



The Other Way. 



33 



urally joyous face, wrinkle into sad and melancholy curves 
when he sang. 

At last we steamed up the Euphrates to Bagdad. What a 
hot, scorching journey it was, too. No ice, bad food, myriads 
of sand flies and mosquitos, all these combined to make the 
journey as unbearable as it could well be, and we were all un- 
speakably glad when Bagdad was in sight. The trade in slaves 
at this city is not conducted in such an open manner as at Bus- 
sorah, but it is possible to "lease" "servants" with very little 
difficulty. All the high Turkish officials own slaves and are 
quite cognizant of the fact of the slave dealing whidh takes 
place. I spoke to one old Jew slave dealer whom I knew had 
''servants" to "lease," and asked him how it was that he was 
never caught, or at least, heavily blackmailed by the minor offi- 
cials. He answered me, as usual, with a proverb: "If the moon 
be with thee, thou needest not to care about the stars" — mean- 
ing that he had squared the highest authorities and had no need 
to trouble himself about officials of lower grades. 




A Popular Two-Hole Hot-Plate. 



Heating by Gas. 



'HE matter of heating is equally as important as 
cooking. Both are necessities, and it is justly 
claimed that gas heat is unequalled for a steady, 
reliable, and uniform temperature. 

This fact has been thoroughly established by the 
introduction of this domestic fuel throughout the cities 
of the United States, and its application in many forms, 
and on a large scale, in churches, hotels, schools and 
hospitals, also in various manufacturing establishments. 
The great popularity and increasing demand for 
ordinary, portable cylinder heaters and radiators for 
home and office use is responsible 
for a great variety of styles and 
designs in this line, some most 
ornamental and artistic. The 
accompanying cut shows the ordin- 
ary Russia-iron cylinder heater, 
which can be purchased from $i.oo 
up. We also show cut of a very 
popular radiator. Both heaters and 
radiators are made in different 
sizes to suit needs of consumer, 
the ordinary size being ample for 
heating a room 14 feet square, 
with a gas consumption of from 
10 to 20 cu. ft. per hour — certainly an inexpensive, a 




Gas Radiator 



The Other Way. 



35 



most convenient and satisfactory method of quickly- 
heating a room. 

Portable heaters, as a rule, are attached to the gas 
fixture by a tubing. This permits its use in any room 

where it may be needed, the 
gas supply from an ordinary 
jet being sufficient to supply 
a heater of standard size. 

In connecting a heater, a 
brass neck attached to the tub- 
ing, and usually furnished with 
it, fits snugly into the pillar 
of the fixture after the lava 
tip is removed. The hook 
should be carefully inserted in 
order to prevent any leak, and 
tubing should not be trodden 
on, as it is lined with a fine 
wire coil, which, when flatten- 
ed, stops supply of gas and 
renders the tubing useless. 
Always keep cock on heater 
closed, until prepared to light it. 

Where a heater or radiator is to be stationary, it 
should, by all means, be substantially connected with 
iron pipe, and a stop cock provided whereby the gas 
may be shut off", and heater removed when not needed. 
In using heaters do not turn on at jet and allow gas to 
accumulate in the heater before lighting; and when 
you turn off heat, shut both the cock on the heater, 
and the key at the fixture. 




Mahommet versus Vishnu< 



e 



^v?i5^ 



>jjjHITPORE, the scene of many serious riotings between 
Hindoos and Mahommedans, is a suburb of India's 
greatest city — Calcutta — and has always borne a most 
unsavory reputation, not only for disloyalty, but for 
crime of every description. 

The Chitpore district is inhabited principally by a low class of 
Hindoos and Mussulmans, who, when they are not engaged in 
internecine strife, work in the local jute and rice mills; but 
there are many very wealthy merchants, both Hindoo and Ma- 
hommedan, who carry on their different commercial enterprises 
in the Chitpore road. This road leads direct from Calcutta to 
Chitpore, a distance of four and one-half miles, and with its old 
and shabby native houses, whose wooden verandahs face the 
street, is a fit scene for an artist who can portray Oriental life, 
for mere words can convey no accurate impression of the mar- 
velous incongruities of a native Indian business thoroughfare. 

The dark and murky dens which constitute the ground floors 
of the houses are filled with goods of every description from all 
countries. Here are to be found elephant tusks from Nepaul, 
Persian Jewelry, rich shawls from Cashmere, piece goods of 
every description and of every vulgar color from Manchester, 
idols from Burma and Birmingham, cheap perfumes from 
France and Germany, silks from Japan and China, and the en- 
tire road is pervaded with the pungent odor of essential oils, 
such as sandal and attar of roses, which are being sold by the 
Mahommcdan perfume venders from Kabul. 

Let us watch the "soona," or native jeweler, as he sits cross- 
legged before hs charcoal fire with no tools, except a small 
hammer and blow pipe. What splendid work he is turning out 
in the shape of anklets, bracelets, toe-rings, nose-rings and 
other articles with which the Indian maiden, be she Hindoo or 
Mahomm.edan, delights to deck herself. From near by comes 
36 



The Other Way. 37 

the peculiar sound made by the engraver of brass "lotahs," or 
drinking vessels, as he engraves on them the image of Hanu- 
Tunu, the monkey god, or of Kali, the four-handed, the goddess 
of cruelty, the sound of his small chisel reminding one of the 
sharp, musical din of the jungle cricket. 

Here is a store for crockery and water vessels, all made in the 
district of Chitpore, and for a few — a very few — small copper 
coins you can purchase a terra cotta vase or drinking vessel, the 
artistic design and proportion of which could not be produced 
in a European or American city by the same class of craftsmen 
for a hundred times the amount. At the stall on the edge of the 
sidewalk stands a native vender of drugs. Watch the mother 
holding up her sick infant to the venerable looking quack who 
presides at the stall. She is a Mahommedan, and is asking 
for a "jadoo" or charm to ward off evil from her child; the quack 
scribbles a verse or two from the Koran on a piece of papyrus 
and binds it on the baby's arm; the mother, after paying the 
""hakim," goes away superbly confident in the >ef^cacy of the 
remedy. The next drug stall is in charge of a Brahmin. There 
is an old man with badly ulcerated legs, asking for medicine. 
The Brahmin daubs the patient's forehead with some horrible 
looking paint, prostrates himself two or three times before an 
idol which is on the stall, mumbles a few incantations, and the 
patient goes away happy. If a Brahmin cannot cure him, who 
can? 

Listen to the "bheesti" or water carrier. "Oh, brother of 
mine, buy water! Sweet it is, and cool as the melons of Agra. 
Do I not carry it in the skin of a goat that was without blemish? 
Buy water, brother of mine!" What a strange tide of life is eb- 
bing through the street; the Mahommedan beggar and the Hin- 
doo fakir pass along, stopping at each store to hold up a dried 
gourd into which the charitably disposed may drop their alms; 
the sleek, calm and cunning looking "bunnia," or money lender 
from Marwar slinks along like an embodied wickedness, look- 
ing from side to side out of the comers of his eyes as if he were 
(and he is) constantly on the watch for some poor, defaulting 
debtor; here come venders of fruit and vegetables with heavy 



38 The Other Way. 

baskets on their heads, followed by a bustling Bengali broker^ 
who fills the air with the voice of cheap bargains. What is that 
noise you hear, like the beating of a side drum? Look! It is 
a Leper who is rattling a small tomtom as he crawls along. Don't 
be frightened; he will not approach you. See, he is holding out 
a long bamboo with a tin cup fastened to the end of it. That 
is for money. 

Let us turn away from the disgusting sight and move along 
the Chitpore road a little faster so as to get away from the over- 
powering odor of boiling "ghee" and sugar which emanates 
from the shop of the "meethai walla" or sweet meat seller. 
Yonder is the office of the "Bengali Patriot," a native news or- 
gan, which is largely responsible for the present trouble between 
the Hindoos and Mahommedans. There has been no bubonic 
plague in Chitpore, and the authorities never at any time, except 
plague time, mteriere with the domestic life of the natives; even 
if u search warrant is required by the police, the magistrate wha 
issues it invariably gives strict orders that it is to be used only 
by an officer of the same caste as the inmate of the dwelling 
that is to be searched. Why, then, has there been any rioting? 

Let us interview the editor of the Bengali Patriot; he may be 
abl to inform us as to the cause of the trouble. We make our 
way over to the office and present our cards to the "durwan'^ 
or porter, who with a grave salaam assures us that he will de- 
liver them at once to Babu Mohendra Lall Dutt, who is thi 
editor. Will the sahibs rest themselves in the meantime? The 
sahibs do ,not rest themselves, as the chairs with string seats 
have an appearance of being colonized by a species of small 
gam.e which shall be unmentioned. The porter is gone some time. 
The reason of this is not far to seek. Some three years ago^ 
Mohendra Lall's brother was a redacteur en chef of the Bengali 
Patriot. At that time the mango trees were being smeared 
throughout Bengal with cow-dung and the unleavened "chupatti"^ 
or cake was being sent with alarming rapidity from village to 
village. There was not the slightest doubt that this was a sign 
to 'devout Hindoos to hold themselves in readiness to rise 
agc-inst their hated feringhi conquerors, and Mohendra Lall's 



The Other Way. 39 

brother had spurred on the malcontents by appealing to their 
leliglous ardor, at the same time assuring them that once the 
English were driven from the country the Hindoos would, with 
the aid of Vishnu, conquer those sons of Belial, the Mahom- 
medans, and reinstate the old Hindoo "Raj" again, with a nat- 
ural sequence, that all Hindoos would then have a good time. 

Now, Her Imperial Majesty's Government of India did not 
think that such an advanced education was good for the masses 
and called on the editor of the Bengali Patriot to show cau&e 
why he should not be prosecuted for sedition and treason. It 
is to be presumed that his showing was unsuccessful for the 
authorities invited him to spend a twenty years vacation at Port 
Blair, in the Andaman Islands, where he no doubt has ample 
opportunity to improve his physical, if not his moral condition. 

What is that man reading to his companions? It is a scur- 
rilous article penned by Mohendra Lall Dutt in the Bengali 
Patriot. Hear the murmurs of the crowd round the newspaper 
oflfice; listen to their angry comments on the attitude ol the 
government as set forth by Mohendra Lall Dutt. No wonder 
the editor is so dilatory in coming out to see us. He has, no 
doubt, a vision of m^Tmidons of the law, escorting him to the 
thannah or police station in the Chitpore road, the said thannah 
more than likely being his first halt on the road to Port Blair 
to join his brother. 

At last the porter returns and informs us that the editor sahib 
sends us salaams, this being equivalent to an invitation to enter. 
We proceed along a dark musty-smelling passage at the end of 
which we find Babu Mohendra Lall Dutt duly ensconced in an 
office, he floor of which is literally covered with the long round 
pillows so dear to the heart of the Bengali. The editor is lolling 
about among the pillows as we enter, but promptly springs to 
his feet when he sees us and salaams. He is honored greatly by 
the visit of the sahibs to his poor ofifice. What can he offer the 
sahibs for refreshment? Nothing? Will the sahibs mot drink 
tobacco? We declined all kinds of refreshments and inform 
Mohendra Lall Dutt of the object of our visit. He is very 



40 The Other Way. 

si'spicious of us at first, but this gradually wears off as \Ye assure 
him of our friendly feelings toward him. 

To what does he ascribe the ill-feeling which has arisen 
among the natives against the government? "Will the sahibs 
give ear unto his voice for a few minutes?" 

"The sahibs must know that our sons are now being educated 
in the English fai.hion, and as a consequence have learned the 
art of government. Why should not they have a voice in the 
affairs ^[ their own country? Are they not Hindoos of a good 
caste? Do not they pay taxes to the great white queen? Are 
they not intellectual men, capable of governing the miserable 
Mahommedans?" 

To this we answer that the Mahommedans will a!so want a 
voice in the council, as evidenced by the articles being published 
daily in the *Tslami-ka-Beta." or "Sons of Islam." 

"Sahibs. :he Mahommedans are jackals; their fathers were 
pigs and their mothers the servants of sin. Why should they 
want anything to say about the government of the country? We 
Hindoos are men of good caste, and would be contaminated by 
associating with the meat-eating brutes of Mahommedans." 

Any real information Mohendra Lall Dutt may possess he 
evidently declines to give us, and we rise to depart, the editor 
clotlKd only in a greasy waist-cloth, escorts us to the door, 
where the angry, noisy crowds are still congregated. We hear 
remarks passed about "pigs of mahommedans" and "feringhies 
of no caste" as we walk through the crowd to the office of the 
*Tslami-ka-Beta." 

We present our cards to the Mahommedan porter at the door, 
and almost immediately are ushered into the presence of Sheik- 
ben-Hossei-ben-Achmet. the editor. With a grave and courtly 
salaam he asks in what manner he can serve us. We inform 
him of the object of our visit and ask him to give us his version 
of the matter. 

"The sahibs are nobles and they know that a follower of the 
holy prophet cannot lie. Will their lordships, the noble sahibs, 
open wide their ears and listen to the words of Ben Hossein ben 
Achmet, who is a doctor, learned in the law? Sahibs, the miser- 



The Other 14^ ay. 41 

able infidels of Hindoos are responsible for the whole trouble. 
Do they not daily insult us in the columns of their journals? 
Do they not revile our holy religion? It is only yesterday 
morning, sahibs, that Mohendra Lall Dutt, the editor of the 
Patriot, (he is the son of Shitan and a sow) sent some low caste 
Hindoos (chamars they were, sahibs and the sons of burned 
fathers) with a crowd of pigs to the holy mosque of Hassan and 
Hossein which the sahibs have just passed in the road. These 
low caste brutes drove the pigs into the door of the musjid, and, 
of course, sahibs, the Mahomnicdans could no less than protect 
the holy shrine from such desecration. This was the cause of 
yesterday's trouble, and the followers of the prophet, in revenge, 
killed a cow at the gate of the temple of Durga. Sahibs, we Ma- 
hommedans have no grievance against the government of our 
great mother, the empress^ but we will have the same privileges 
that are accorded to the pig-eating Hindoos. Of course 
Sahibs, when men's passions are inilamed as were those of my 
brethren yesterday, they would attack anybody who came be- 
tween them and their revenge, but we are not a disloyal people, 
sahibs, although there are some men who call themselves Ma- 
homnicdans mixed up in the agitation. They are bringing dis- 
credit on our holy religion. Have we not eaten the salt of the 
Sircar? Then why should we, sons of Mahommed, be unfaith- 
ful to our salt?" 

Ben-Hossein-ben-Achmet's view of the matter is really the 
correct one. The Hindoos, for purposes of their own, are con- 
stantly stirring up caste against caste, religion against religion 
in India. The authorities are compelled to crush all such petty 
risings, and then the peaceable but ignorant Mahommedans 
imagine that the Government of India is responsible for any 
bloodshed which may occur. The editor who is a reverend 
looking Mahommedan with a long, white beard, bows us out of 
the ofifice. In the Chitpore road the crowd is growing larger 
and larger every minute and we hasten to our gharri to get away 
before the inevitable fight occurs. At the town end of the road 
we see two companies of Highland Light Infantry with two 
Maxim guns marching down to the scene of the trouble. Be- 



42 The Other Way. 

hind them come two or three magistrates who are riding down 
the road to read the riot act before ordering the troops to clear 
the streets. All the stores have been hastily closed, and in 
many instances strongly baricaded. Women crouch in the doors 
of the temples and mosques, children huddle closer to their 
mothers, who are trembling with fear for their offspring. Now 
we hear it begin, like thunder a long way ofif. Allah Ackbar! 
La Allah ilia Allah! comes clear and strong from the minaret 
of the mosque. The muezzin himself, with his hands placed 
over his ears in the orthodox manner, has by calling the faith- 
ful to prayer, given the signal for the fight to commence. La 
Allah ilia Allah! Allah Ackbar! Mohammed dao, dossul ilia. 
Listen to the fierce war cry of the Mahommedans! Now comes 
the answering cry of the followers of Vishnu. Ram! Ram! Sita 
Ram! Gunga Ma! How horrible it all sounds. 

Suddenly we hear the bugle ring out for the troops to advance 
at the double, and then commences a series of shrieks and 
shouts as the bayonets of the Highlanders do their awful work. 
Our driver has galloped his horses all the way, and we are now 
fast approaching the city of Calcutta, glad to get away from the 
scene of the tumult. 

The next morning's newspaper tells us how many killed and 
wounded. 

Hindoos and Mahommedans were taken away in the ambu- 
lance wagons. We stroll slowly down the Chitpore road during 
the day, but beyond a few stores having been demolished, there 
i« no apparent difference in the appearance of the place. 

Enquire of any native who may be standing near how many 
were killed. He will reply: "Allah only knows, Sahib. Kismet. 
God is great." That is the way of the Indian native. 

To Drive Out the Ea's. — Place a little corossive sublimate in their 
holes. Handle carefully. Poisonous, 

To Remove Fly Spec.". — Use alcohol or ammonia. 



Instantaneous Heaters. 

HE accomj)anying cut shows an Acme instantan- 
1^^ eous water heater for bath rooms. The quickest, 
cheapest, and most convenient and reliable of all 
appliances designed to furnish instant and unlimited 
hot water supply. Too much cannot be said as to the 
merit and popularity of this heater, which for less than 
2 cts. will furnish hot water enough for a bath in five 
minutes after lighting. 

Ready at all hours, always available, and never 
failing in its efficiency, this 
ornamental appliance is placed 
at the head of the bath tub, and 
needs only the application of a 
match to the burner, and the 
turning on of the water. Simple 
in construction, once lighted, it 
needs no attention, and will 
run itself until gas cock is 
closed. 

These heaters, like all other 
gas appliances, are made in 
various sizes according to the 
water flow desired, From one 
to three gallons per minu'-e at a 
temperature of 120° can be 
obtained. An especially orna- 
mental heater sixinches in diam- 
eter is manufactured for the use 
of physicians, and for bed rooms, 
43 




44 The Other Way, 

where instantaneous water is needed. These are placed 
on the wall above the wash basin^ are handsomely 
nickeled, and afford a most convenient and quick 
means of obtaining instantaneously a small flow of 
water at any temperature desired. The less water 
turned on, the greater the heat. 

To Remove Wine Stains on Tablecloths. — Drop a little salt on the 
spot. It will absorb the wine. 

To Clean Kid Shoes. — Rub well with cream and ink mixed. 

Tea and Coffee Stains. — Use boiling water and powdered borax 
Do not use soap or other alkali. 

Salt and Lemon Juice. — Will remove iron rust. Drop on the salt, 
and squeeze the lemon on it. Allow to dry in the sun. 

To Remove Glass Stoppers. — Warm neck of bottle. 

To Disinfect Sinks and Drain Hoppers — Use copperas, 2 lbs., to 
gallon of water; pulverize and dissolve. 




The Power of Luchmee* 

^^ 

URING the year 1884, I was stationed with my regiment, 
the I2th Bengal Lancers, at Chanda, a small town in the 
Central Provinces of India. In June of this year, quite 
a number of rich natives of the town had been decoyed 
away and strangled by thugs, and the station was thrown into 
such a state of terror by these frequent atrocities, that no resi- 
dent would venture to leave his house or store after sunset, 
without providing himself with a strong escort. 

This condition of affairs naturally had a very bad effect on the 
general business and trade of the town, and the leading mer- 
chants and tradesmen at last petitioned the "Burra Lat Sahib," 
or Commissioner of the district, to offer large rewards for the 
capture of the thugs, the petitioners being willing to pay the 
amounts necessary from their own private funds. 

Society at Chanda was made up almost entirely of military 
and civil officers and their wives, and as is customary in India, 
the courtesies of our mess were extended to the commissioner 
of the district, the superintendent of police, the civil surgeon, 
and sundry others who occupied official positions in Chanda, it 
being quite a recognised custom that they should dine at mess 
once or twice a week. 

We had all dined together one evening in the terribly hot 
month of July and were taking our ease on the verandah of the 
mess-bungalow, some of us lolling in hammocks, others laying 
at full length in the long cane chairs so dear to the heart of the 
Anglo-Indian, when suddenly we heard the sharp challenge of 
the sentry on guard at the gate ring out on the clear night air. 

The answer to the challenge evidently did not satisfy the sen- 
try for his stern command to "halt" was followed in a few mo- 
ments by his appearance before us, driving in front of him a 
native, whose only clothing was a white "dhoti," or waist cloth, 
such as is usually worn by the native police. The sentry's pris- 

45 



46 The Other Way. 

oner proved to be the "havildar," or sergeant of the native pol- 
ice of Chanda, and he appeared to be extremely uncomfortable 
owing to the very close proximity of the sentry's bayonet to the 
small of his back. With profound salaams the prisoner in- 
formed us that we were ''his father and mother," and that he 
also was a servant of the great "Sirkar," or Indian Government, 
and his duty had required him to come to the mess-bungalow 
at this late hour, as he had news of the greatest importance to 
communicate to the "Burra Police Sahib," or superintendent of 
police. 

Now, Major Holmes, the superintendent of police, was a gen- 
tlemen w'ho had a hankering after the good things of this life, 
and he by no means enjoyed being disturbed in such a delight- 
ful siesta, as he was taking in a hammock on a cool part of the 
verandah, and when he made his appearance to listen to the ha- 
vildar's story, his temper was the reverse of angelic. The sen- 
try, on seeing the superintendent of police, returned to his post, 
and Hira Lall, the havildar, feeling intensely relieved at the re- 
moval of the sentry's bayonet, saluted his superior ofificer and 
at once began to pour forth with great volubility, a long account 
of a fight which was raging between Hindoos and Mahom- 
niedans at a village called Ranigunge, about twenty miles dis- 
tant from Chanda. The major very quickly cut short the havil- 
dar's story, telling him not to stand chattering there "like an 
owl, cr a man ot a monkey's caste," but to deliver his report 
quickly and clearly and return to his duty; but the major knew, 
as did we all. that for a native police officer to deliver a report 
quickly was an impossibility, and it was with a feeling of ennui 
that we settled down to listen to the policeman's story. 

The havildar, with another deep salaam, began his report 
anew. "The sahib is a great lord. May it please the sahib, as 
I was sitting in the Thannah (police-station) writing my report 
for the day, there entered one, Nilkunto Rai, a constable of the 
district of Ranigunge. He was wearied with travel, and no food 
or water had touched his lips since he left his post to bring the 
information to the burra sahib, who is a great lord and will have 
many sons. Moreover, sahib, he is a Brahmin, a pure man of 



The Other Way. 47 

high caste, and can speak no lies. Therefore, the sahib can open 
wide his ears and believe the report which his servant, Nilkunto 
Rai, the constable, has brought unto him, the same being a true 
version of affairs at Ranigunge, Sahib, Nilkunto Rai is a 
Brahmin and a holy man. 

"The sahib knows that the village of Ranigunge is mostly in- 
habited by Mahomm.edans, whose fathers are dogs and whose 
mothers are servants of sin, and that the Hindoos who live in 
the same village are a law-abiding people. It has happened, 
sahib, that Hassan Ali, the hide merchant of Ranigunge, has 
taken unto himself the daughter of Mahomet Ismail, the tailor, 
for a wife. Yesterday was the day set for the marriage feast, 
and the brethren of Hassan Ali — men of no caste and whose 
prophet was a jackal — brought a bullock for the feast near to 
the sacred temple of Krishna, which the sabih knows is a shrine 
of great sanctity, and they there slew the bullock and defiled the 
holy shrine with blood. The burra sahib knows that we Hin- 
doos are a law-abiding people, but sahib, how greatly was the 
blood of the holy Brahmins inflamed at such an outrage! Krish- 
r?. had to be appeased by religious ceremonies and offerings, 
and moreover, it was but just that the mosque of the dogs of 
Mahommedans should be defiled. 

"As the sahib knows, there are some men of low caste living 
in Ranigunge; the words of the constable, Nilkunto Rai, who is 
a Brahmin, a pure minded man, who can speak no lie, are, that 
a holy sonneshi, or jogi, I know not which, commanded these 
low caste men to take a pig — who is the father of Mahom- 
medans — and slay it in the musjid of the sons of Mahomet. Now, 
sahib, these Mahommedans, sons of burnt fathers, armed them- 
selves with sticks and resisted the men who were driving the pig 
into the mosque, but the Hindoos, having given much prayer 
to Kali, would not be denied, and they also armed themselves 
with heavy sticks, and in the name of Krishna, struck against 
the bestial sons of meat-eating jackals. Sahib, you will hear 
what wicked men are these followers of Mahommed — may their 
g;raves be defiled with pork — they have killed nine Hindoos, 
among whom was a holy jogi who was greatly revered; whereas 



48 The Other Way. 

the Hindoos have killed only two Mahommedans — may their 
souls be everlastingly burnt. Sahib, the request of the havildar 
of Ranigunge is that your highness may send ten men of good 
caste to Ranigunge to protect the people of our holy religion. 
Nilkunto Rai, the constable, a man of high caste, a Brahmin 
who cannot lie, says also, sahib, that ten men are required." 

Having arrived at the end of his long-winded report, the hav- 
ildar saluted and enquired if the burra-sahib had any orders for 
him. The major, who semed greatly perturbed at the havildar's 
report, replied in the negative and dismissed him to his duty. 

"Well, this is a fine state of affairs^" exclaimed the major, "on 
top of this thugee business, the cow killing has started again. 
Dalrymple, I am afraid I shall have to ask you to run over to 
Ranigunge and settle matters there if possible. As to sending 
ten men from here, that is impossible, and entirely out of the 
question. All our men are urgently wanted here on this cursed 
thug duty, but you can take an orderly and ride over to-night 
to see if matters have really gone as far as the havildar would 
have us believe. If you think that his report is true, you can 
send a runner in with your news in the morning, and I will ask 
the colonel to send a troop of lancers to keep order there. You 
had better send out your extra horse at once to the tenth mile, 
and you can start about midnight. There is a full moon and it 
will be a delightful ride for you." 

"Glad you think so, chief," replied Harry Dalrymple, the as- 
sistant superintendent of police, "I don't feel very keen about it 
myself; but needs must when the devil drives, I suppose. I will 
be ofT about twelve o'clock and let you have all the news by the 
morning's post runner." 

Harry Dalrymple was a fair-haired young fellow of twenty- 
two, whose winning manners and proved courage had made him 
a universal favorite. He had been in India only about a year 
and a half, and already his superior officers were predicting for 
him a rapid rise in the service. Had the major had any pre- 
sentiment that his sub's journey would end disastrously, nothing 
on earth could have induced him to allow the lad to proceed to 
Ranigunge that night. 



The Other Way. 49 

A few minutes before midnight, Dalrymple ordered his groom 
to bring his horse to the bungalow, and while he was making 
ready to depart, he remarked to the major that he did not think 
he would take an orderly with him, as there were no horses in 
the police stables which could keep up with his own horse 
Rajah, and besides, an orderly was a nuisance, anyhow. The 
major replied that he left the matter entirely in the hands of his 
sub, warning him at he same time, not to proceed on such a 
journey unarmed. Dalrymple assured his chief that he was ful- 
ly armed, and after bidding everybody goodnight, he sprang in- 
to the saddle and cantered down the avenue en route to Rani- 
gunge. 

The road to Ranigunge was fairly good to the tenth mile, but 
from there onward to the village of Muttrapore, a bridle path 
through the jungle was the only route open to him. Having 
arrived at the tenth mile, he changed horses and had ridden a 
couple of miles or so farther towards his destination, when he 
thought he heard a shout for help. The sound seemed from the 
direction of a small clearing about two hundred yards ^head of 
him, and putting spurs to his horse he galloped toward the place 
from whence he imagined the cries for help had proceeded. As 
he turned the corner of the path, he was forced to pull up sud- 
denly to avoid riding over a man who was lying prostrate on 
the ground,. Near the man stood four burly natives. They were 
unarmed, but if Dalrymple had inspected them closely, he would 
have found that they were covered from head to foot with 
f;rease. 

The man on the ground was moaning piteously, and from time 
to' time he cursed the men who had injured him, as well as their 
female ancestors. For these last, he, in true Hindoo fashion, 
reserved his choicest anathemas. Dalrymple questioned him as 
to what had happened, and with many groans the man began 
to relate his scory. 

"Oh, protector of the poor! this night was I journeying from 
Ranigunge to Chanda. I had sold my paddy crop to Golab 
Rai, the Bunnia of Ranigunge, who also sells sweet-meats near 
the gate. As I journeyed, sahib, I met two men, accursed be 



The Other Way. 

their sons, who asked me to give them my company as far as 
Chanda for safety's sake. Sahib, I swear by the holy cow that 
I am a poor man, and in my waist-cloth I carried two hundred 
and eight rupees which I had this day received from Golab Rai, 
the Bunnia. Do I not owe it to the money lender at Chanda, 
whose name is Jagnarain? We had arrived at tliis -spot, sahib, 
which is but three miles from Muttrapore, when the two men 
who were with me demanded the money from me, the same 
money which I had this day received from Golab Rai. the Bun- 
nia of Ranigunge. I swear by Kali, the four-handed, sahib, that 
I am a poor nian. a chamar of Chanda. So I told them that I 
bad no money, but when we reached Chanda I would buy 
sweet-meats for them. With much bad talk did they revile me, 
oh sahib, and at once fell to beating me with their staves, say- 
ing. "Oh. chamar of an accursed mother and a burnt fathe*-, wilt 
thou now give us the money, or shall we beat thee, oh skinner 
of dead cows, until the blood runs from thine ears? Again did 
I swear, sahib, on the cow's tail, that I had no money, but the 
unbelieving sons of Shitan and a sow put no faith in my words, 
and again fell to beating me until I fell and knew no moT-e. 
Sahib, the sons of theives took away my two hundred and eight 
rupees, which I owe to Jagnarain, the marwari of Chanda. The 
Presence will see the four men standing here. These men are 
Brahmins, sahib, who are journeying from Chanda to Muttra- 
pore. They found me here, and the Presence knows that they 
ore holy men. Ahi! Ahi! Sahib, my pain is great, and no water 
have I to drink. Can these holy men touch me? Can they give 
drink from their lotahs to a chamar and a man of low caste? 
The sahib is my father and my mother and will give me to 
driiik. Ahi! Ahi! Great is my pain, and my legs are broken un- 
de.-- me! Sahib, in the name of Ram. give me water, for I am 
burning with fever and cannot move. Ahi! Ahi!" 

Ualrymplo. heartily cursing the four Brahmins for their un- 
feeling conduct, dismounted, and taking his flask of brandy from 
his saddle bag. knelt by the injured man's side and proceeded 
to pour some of the liquid down his throat. Paying no atten- 
tion to tht men who were standing near, he lifted the flask to 



The Other Way. 51 

the man's lips, when like a flash of lightninig, ooe of the four 
men threw a white cloth round Dalrymple's neck and the other 
three precipitated themselves upon him. The wretch who had 
thrown the cloth was a big powerful ruffian, and as Dalrymple 
struggled desperately but ineffectually with his murderous as- 
sailants, the cloth was drawn tighter and tighter until the poor 
lad, whose grasp upon the greasy throats of tlie thugs was 
growing weaker every moment, gave up the struggle and fell 
to the ground a corpse. 

The sacred roomal of the thugs had done its work only too 
well. 

As soon as the man whom poor Dalrymple had thought to be 
injured saw that t'he dastardly deed was accomplished, he sprang 
to his feet and broke out in a wild kind of an anthem to the 
goddess L.uchmee. "Hail, oh Luchmee, goddess of the thugs. 
All powerful art thou and greatly to be feared. Victory is to 
thy servants and the hated feringlhi is delivered imto our hands. 
Thy shrine this night shall be bright with many lights, and the 
adorations of thy servants shall be accompanied by sacrifices. 
Thy protection we ask, oh Luchmee. Hail! goddess of the 
thugs. Muc'h joy shall be with thy servants this night." 

Meanwhile the four thugs had been standing near Dalrymple's 
body, and when the fakir had brought his anthem to a close, 
they lifted the body and carried it about fifty yards into the 
jungle. The fakir then produced the sacred "furruck" or Thug 
spade, and a very shallow grave was made. After stripping the 
body of all valuables, they flung it into the grave, and hastened 
to Muttrapore. 

Tlie superintendent of police waited in vain for his assistant 
until three o'clock the following day, and then becoming ex- 
tremely anxious for his sub's safety, he requested the colonel in 
command to send a troop of lancers to Ranigunge, as he sur- 
mised that something untoward had happened, and that a dis- 
play of force would be likely to quell any disturbance which 
night be going on. 

The colonel promptly complied with the major's request, and 



52 The Other Way. 

within ten minutes a troop of the finest cavslry in India were 
clattering along at a fast pace toward Ranigunge. 

At ten o'clock that night, the major received information from 
the officer in conmiand of the troop of lancers that Dalrymple's 
horse had been found at Muttrapore, but the assistant superin- 
tendent of police had not been seen by anybody at Ranigunge 
or Muttrapore; moreover, there was not at present, nor had 
there been, any fighting or riot at Ranigunge. 

With a terrible fear at his heart, the major ordered the con- 
stable, Nilkunto Rai, the man who had brought the news from 
Ranigunge, to be brought before him. In a few moments, Hira 
Lall, the havildar, shaking with fright, appeared, and in answer 
to the chief's enquiry for the constable, he stated that Nilkunto 
Rai had disappeared soon after the havildar had taken his report 
the night previous. 

With an oath, the major bade him begone to his duty, and 
ordering his horse, he rode over at once to the mess-bungalow 
with the terrible news. Search parties were immediately organ- 
ized to search the surrounding district for some trace of Dal- 
rymple, and native spies were at once set upon the track of Nil- 
kunto Rai, but it was not until some three days had elapsed that 
any trace of Dalrymple or the constable was brought to light. 
On the evening of the third day after Dalrymple's disappear- 
anse, we were sitting on the verandah of the mess-bungalow dis- 
cussing his fate, when a man, with his hands tightly bound be- 
hind his back, was led in by two police spies. The major asked 
them who their prisoner was, and they assured him that he was 
Nilkunto Rai, the n.issing constable. The havildar was at once 
sent for, and on his arrival, hew as asked if he recognised the 
prisoner as Nilkunto Rai, who had brought the report from the 
havildar at Ranigunge. He replied that he was not certain, as 
it was dark when the constable had arrived. The major imme- 
diately ordered the prisoner to be taken to the cells, where, no 
doubt, under threats of torture from the police spies, he soon 
confessed that one. Ram Kissum, a taylee, or oil-presser of 
Muttrapore, had given him the police uniform and had sent him 
to the chief of police at Chanda, with the information of the 



The Other Way. 53 

fighting at Ranigunge. For this service he had received the 
srm of ten rupees from Ram Kissum. A strong detachment of 
police was sent to Muttapore that night to arrest Ram Kissum, 
and the next morning he was brought in, heavily manacled, and 
locked up under a strong guard. 

On being told by the superintendent that he would be charged 
v.'ith the murder of Dalt^ymple, Ram Kissum at once confessed, 
and gloried in his crime, saying that he was under the protec- 
tion of the great and powerful goddess Luchmee, and was se- 
cure from the punishment of the Sirkar. He described the spot 
•vherc the body had been buried, but he absolutely refused to 
implicate any others in the crime. 

After Dalrymple's body had been exhumed from its jungle 
grave, and had been given a Christian burial in the little ceme- 
lery attached to the garrison church, Ram Kissum was speedily 
brought to trial. Nilkunto Rai turned Queen's evidence, and 
as the oil-pre.-^ser had confessed to murdering Dalrymple, the 
trial occupied but a very short space of time. He was found 
guilty, and Colonel Thompson, the commissioner, who had sum- 
mary powers, promtply sentenced him to be hanged at six 
o'clock the next morning, his body to be wrapped in the skin of 
a freshly killed cow before he was hanged. 

At this sentence Ram Kissum was observed to shiver slightly, 
for he was a Hindoo, and to touch the flesh of the sacred cow, 
or to have any of the blood of the cow on his body, was equiva- 
lent to eternal damnation. He soon recovered his sang-froid, 
liov/ever, and in a calm voice he informed the commissioner that 
the sentence would never be carried out, as the goddess Luch- 
mee was more powerful than the great white queen, and ihe was 
a favored servant of Luchmee. 

The trial over, the commissioner adjourned to his bungalow, 
;and, as was his custom, after he had dined, he was taking his 
ease in a long chair on the verandah. He had been reading for 
some time, when happening to glance up, he saw standing" upon 
the topmost step leading to the verandah, a wild, dishevelled 
figure, with matted hair hanging nearly down to his feet, and 
liis body clothed with a leopard skin. 



54 rhe Other Wav. 

The connissoner saw that the tigure was that of a fakir, or a 
religious devotee, and asked him why he was there. The fakir 
in n hollow, sepulchral voice replied: "Oh Lord. Saliib, thott 
hast this day sentenced to a disgraceful death a servant of the 
greut goddess Luchmee. whose priest I am. Oh, sahib. I swear 
to thee that unless the release of Ram Kissum is ordered by the 
Presence, evil will happen to the commissioner sahib. This I 
swear by the blue-throated Mahadeo." 

Colonel Thompson ordered him to leave the vicinity of the 
town at once, or he would have him arrested. The fakir quiet- 
ly salaamed and went down the steps into the darkness. 

Tl-e iail at Chanda was a heavy, stone structure, surroimded 
by a deep moat and completely guarded by English soldiers. No 
ingress or egress was possible after sunset. 

About ^ve o'clock in the morning following the day of trial, 
the warder of the jail, accompanied by two Mahommedan 
guards carrying the skin of a newly killed cow. proceeded to 
the cell of Ram Kissum. An officer opened the door ot the cell 
pnd called to Ram Kissum to come forth. He obeyed, but his 
body was so mufHed up in his blankets that it was impossible to 
see his face. The cow's skin was fastened round his body and 
he was led out to execution. 

When the party arrived at the scaffold, the h.angman pulled the 
blanket away from the culprit's face in order to adjust the noose, 
when, to the astonishment of all the officials present, there stood 
revealed to them, not Ram Kissum. but Xilkunto Rai. The 
prison was imm.ediately searched, but no trace of Ram Kissum 
or of the mode by which he escaped was found. 

Information was at once sent to the superintendent of police 
T'.nC. the magistrate, and together they went to inform the com- 
missoner of what had happened. On their arrival at his bun- 
g-alow, what a fearful sight met their eyes! The commissioner 
and his two Mahommedan servants were lying strangled on the 
verandah. The prophecy of the fakir had come to pass. 

No trace of the murderers was ever discovered, despite the 
exertions of the police of the whole province. Nilkunto Rai was 



The Other Way. 



55 



hanged soon afterwards, other charges of thuggee having been 
brought home to him. Hira Lall, the havildar, was dismissed 
from the force, and as he bought himself a fine farm in a good 
<li-trict, it has often been a matter of conjecture among Chanda 
society, as to whether he was privy to the many murders which 
had been committed by thugs in the Chanda District. 




The "Ideal" Wafllle Cooker— cooks six at onetime 



Broilers^ 

feature of a gas range is more appreciated and 
enjoyed than the facility for perfect broiling. 
No one will enjoy fried steaks after once try- 
ing a gas broiler. The lower oven on all modern ranges 
is intended for roasting and broiling. In roasting, the 
ovens should be lighted a few minutes before putting in 





the meat and then when roast begins to brown, heat 

should be reduced in order that the surface of the meat 

is not too rapidly cooked. 

In broiling, heat oven first, then place steak on rack 
56 



The Other Way, 57 

as near burners as is safe, turning the steak in one 
minute, broil other side, then again turn and finish first 
side. The object of this first brown being to close pores 
of meat in order that all juices may be retained. 

Separate broilers of various sizes and styles are also 
made to suit all needs of residences, restaurants and 
hotels; one of the most popular of separate broilers 
being that shown in the accompanying cut. 

This is a most excellent appliance; broiling both 
sides of meat at once, turning out a steak perfectly 
broiled in in four minutes, at an expense of one cent. 
What can equal this for a saving of time and money? 

What could be more convenient and desirable? 

Fish, birds, oysters, faultlessly broiled in less than 
five minutes after lighting and at one cent's expense 
for gas! 

Is not this worthy of your attention and trial? 

A little pulverized soapstone, or cornstarcli, put on the hands, will 
save your gloves from perspiration stains. 

In the absence of ice.y you can get a "cold bottle" by wrapping 
about it tightly a wet cloth, and placing it in the open air 
for a lew minutes. 

To Soften and Whitsn the Hands.— y^ glycerine, yi best cider 
vinegar. 

To Clean Windows.— M.\:s. alcohol and prepared chalk; then rub 
off with dry, clean cloth. 

To Clean Gas Stove. — Is very easy, by the use of hot soda. 



Some ''Other Ways/^ 

Few explorers and travelers have given accounts of the vari- 
ous kinds of capital punishment suti"ered by criminals in semi- 
barbarous countries. 

For horrible and unbridled cruelty in modes of putting crim- 
inals to death the chief dishonor should be awarded to the land 
of the lion and the sun — Persia. 

In Bagdad in July, iS88 ,1 was ordered to proceed to Teheraji, 
the capital of Persia, on business connected with the British 
P-mbassy at that city. Leaving Bagdad on a Monday, after four 
cays' journey in a boat down the Euphrates to Bussorah; I met 
Captain White, the British Consul there, and we proceeded on 
oi\^ journey. 

Crossing the Shat-ei-Arab river, we left the land of the Turk 
and were on Persian soil. Directly we landed we met our es- 
cort, a troop of Kurdish cavalry, and after three days' hard 
riding we arrived at Shiraz, a small town, where I saw for the 
first time a Persian execution. At this town Lynch & Co. of 
London had an agent of the name of Fleming, who bought 
date.^. hides, etc.. for the firm and shipped them to England. 
For attacking this agent with a sword, Yacoob Khan, a Persian 
date merchant, suffered death. Although Mr. Fleming did not 
die, the Vice-Consul for England at Bushire. himself a Persiaji, 
had demanded that an example should be made of Yacoob 
Kahn. The culprit had been taken to Teheran, loaded with 
chains, had there been tried for his offense and was sent back 
to Shiraz to be executed. 

At about 3 o'clock in the afternoon we saw some burly Arabs 
carn.-ing a huge cauldron toward the town square, in t^e center 
of which was an iron grating, raised about two feet. On this 
the cauldron was deposited and the Arabs proceeded to chain 
it securely to large stakes. A few minutes more and the culprit, 
bent with the weight of chains, moved into sight between two 
58 



The Other U^ay. 59 

monster Nubian eunuchs, who were carrying scimitars at least 
forty pounds eac^h in weight. Behind the prisoner came about 
sixty Arab coolies, some of them carrying bundles of brush and 
wood, others bearing buckets of oil. The proceission ended with 
the Cadi, or Judge of Shiraz, and a few guards and soldiers. On 
the arrival of the Cadi at the center of the square the two 
eunuchs delivered the prisoner to the guards, as the eunuchs 
themselves were simply officers sent from Teheran with the pris- 
oner to see that the death sentence was carried into efifect^ and 
were debarred by virtue of their office from assisting in any way 
at the execution. The guards at once seized the prisoner and, 
after tying his feet, lifted and put him in the cauldron. His 
hands were then chained to two rings on the edge of the huge 
kettle and the coolies began to move forward. Those of them 
who were carrying oil emptied it into the cauldron, the others 
piled the wood and brush under and around the big vessel. 

The Cadi then took a lighted torch and pushed it into the 
heap of fuel under the cauldron and the flames began to dance, 
to the intense enjoyment of the assembled crowd. 

Shouts of "Lah! Lah! illa'h Allah!" rent the air when the 
flames leapt and singed the victim's beard. Altogether it 
seemed a gala day for the Persians. 

In half an hour the oil became so hot that the yells of the man 
were agonizing. 

Captain White and I approached the Cadi and begged for the 
release of the prisoner, or that he should be shot immediately 
and so end his sufferings. The Cadi replied that he had to carry 
out the orders of the court at Teheran, significantly remarking 
that if he did not do so we might have the pleasure of seeing 
him boiled alive also. 

Ten minutes later the victim's cries began to grow fainter and 
fainter, till at last they ceased. 

The man was dead. 

What became of the body I do not know, as we were too sick 
at heart to remain. That same afternoon we left Shiraz, and 
after days of arduous traveling on camels and horses, arrived 
at Teheran. This city is the seat of the Persian Government 



6o The Other Way. 

and of the Shah^ but a more miserable place it is impossible to 
imagine. 

On our arrival at the British Embassy we were told that an 
execution was to take plae the next morning and were invited 
to witness it. We promptly declined; but owing to the persist- 
ent efforts of the Embassy dragoman to assure us that it would 
not be anything approaching the Shiraz affair, and that at 
Teheran cruelly was unknown, we decided to see the manner of 
humane executions at the capital. 

The following morning about lo o'clock we visited the public 
execution ground, about three miles out of the city, and were 
surprised to see that preparations were going on for two exe- 
ciiticns. The culprits had been guilty of highway robbery with 
vio"ence. 

The public executioner had devised a new form of torture 
which he hoped would gain 'him considerable kudos with the 
judges of the city, and at the same time provide an hour or two 
oi amusement for the populace. 

Two circular pits had been dug, about four feet eight inches 
in depth by about two feet in width, and the culprits, with their 
arms rigidly bound to their bodies and their legs tied tightly 
together, were placed upright in the pits. We had noticed a 
great number of baskets filled with a white substance standing 
near the pits, and thought that they contained lime for the pur- 
pose of filling the graves after the execution. 

We were very soon undeceived as to their contents, however, 
wh€n we baw an assistant executioner pitch the contents of a bas- 
ket into one pit while another assistant poured in a "mussuck" 
or goat's skin full of water on top of the plaster, for such it was. 
These unholy myrmidons filled the two pits in the manner de- 
scribed, while the two culprits, evidently thinking that they were 
being disgraced in some grotesque manner before the final 
catastrophe, grinned naively to the great amusement of the exe- 
cutors. We stood and watched the proceedings for a half hour, 
not really knowing what form the execution was going to take, 
when at the end of that time we noticed an uneasy look upon 



The Other Way. 6i 

the faces of the condemned which gave us an inkling of what 
was about to occur. 

Tiie plaster had begun to tighten and set about the feet and 
legs of the poor wi etches! 

With diabolical ingenuity the chief executioner had devised a 
punib>hment which not only equalled the execution at Shiraz, but 
surpassed it, so far as demoniacal cruelty was concerned. Such 
a Imgering, agonizing death is impossible to imagine, unless one 
had seen it suffered. For two hours and a half did those poor 
wretches bear the horrible torture until death released them. 

The plaster had set tighter and tighter, until their eyeballs 
were protruding out of their sockets and blood was streaming 
from ears, eyes, nose and mouth. Surely no other more painful 
death than this was ever devised. 

It is a far cry from Persia to Nepaul. Nevertheless we will 
take a look at an execution in the country of the Goorkas. 

I was on a hunting trip in the north of Bengal in April and 
May, 1892. when Mr. Maxwell, who is the Deputy Commission- 
er of he Dargeeling district, and I decided to cross the river 
Mechi, which divides the kingdom of Nepaul from Bengal, the 
Napaulese commander of the troops in that district having 
given us a cordial invitation to join him in a "shikar" or hunt. 
After two days' shooting, we arrived at a small town called 
Gunga Hat. 

The place was in a great state of excitement over a trial of a 
man for the crime of assault. After a trial, the quiet and decor- 
ous proceedings of which would do honor to a court in any 
civilized country, the accused was convicted and sentenced to 
die the death of the "Hati ka pao." or elephant's foot. 

There is no Court of Appeals in Nepaul. One hour after the 
trial the condemned was led out for execution. 

A very fine elephant was brougTit up and the wretched culprit 
was attached by each leg to each hind leg of the elephant by a 
length of iibout twelve feet of chain. 

The elephant was then sent at a jog trot for about a quarter of 
a m-lt. with the wretch of a victim dragging at his beels. The 
beast was then stopped and the condemned man, more dea^ than 



62 The Other Way. 

alive, and groaning with agony, was released from his chains. 
Then began the rttinement of cruelty. 

The culprit was revived with copious draughts of milk and 
arrack and was brought back on a stretcher to the starting 
point. After he had revived sufficiently to be able to speak, his 
victim, of about twleve years of age, was brought forward and 
identified the assailant. 

Then the last act began. A large, fiat^ circular stone was 
rolled forward and the condemned man, with his arms and legs 
tied, was laid at full length on his back on the ground, with his 
head on the stone. 

The elephant then came up with his mahout, or keeper, on his 
back, and at the word of command placed one of his enormous 
forefeet on the condemned man's face. One instant, and the 
mighty brute threw the whole of his weight on to the foot, and 
all that was left of the wretched victim's head was an unrecog- 
nizable pulp. 

\To conlude, let us visit the island of Borneo and take a look 
at a trial and execution in the land of the Dyaks and ourang- 
outangs. In January, 1894, I was at the small settlement of 
Siteh, in Borneo, and witnessed a Chinaman's trial for murder 
and his subsequent execution. He had murdered another 
Chinaman in a peculiarly atrocious manner, having first blinded 
him with red-hot ashes and then stabbed him to death with a 
"krisse" or Malay dagger. The evidence against the accused 
was overwhelming and he was duly convicted by the Malay 
Judge and sentenced to death; the sentence being "that he 
should be eaten by the krisse." This was the Malay idiom for 
being stabbed by the horrible dagger used by all inhabitants of 
the Malay archaepelago. 

The day following the trial was the day set for execution, and 
Ht about 10 o'clock in the forenoon the condemned man was 
taken down to the wharf, embarked in a small boat and rowed 
to the execution ground, about two miles up the river. Wishing 
to see if this execution was more humane than others I had wit- 
nessed. I followed the procession of boats, on horseback, along 
the river bank. 



The Other Way, 63 

On arrival at th^ landing place a most curious scene took 
place. The condemned man was dressed entirely in new silk 
clothes, even his boots being new and spotless, and, as the river 
bank was muddy, he refused to walk. At last the boatmen we e 
forced to carry him to the top of the bank. 

A few yards from the river bank a strong stake had been 
driven into the ground, to which, after being made to kneel, the 
culprit was tied, so that the only part of his body he could move 
was his head. 

The assistant executioner pulled the prisoner's head back by 
his queue, while the chief executioner placed the point of a long, 
uigly-looking "krisse" just above the collar-bone on the left side 
and sliowly worked it downward until it passed completely 
through the victim's heart. 

It was a horrible sight, but certainly the most humane form 
oi execution I had hitherto seen in a semi-civilized country. 

Although we live in a civilized country, I think it would do 
no 'harm if we executed a few criminals after the manner of the 
Persians. If one or two were so executed their fates would act 
as a deterrent to others contemplating crimes of an atrocious 
character. After all, they should be supremely grateful that 
they live in a land which recognizes the fact that, if criminals 
have to die, they are entitled to a painless death. 




Lauudrj' Gas Stove 




An Artistic Innovation, 

lyL modern houses are now furnished with gas 
grates instead of dirty, sooty coal fires; and a 
^ reference to the building records will show that 
today the number of gas grates furnished far 
exceed that of coal;— a most convincing evidence of the 
growing popularity and advantage of gas fuel, and this 
is easily understood when we compare the clean, quick, 

ever-ready gas to the 
sooty slow process of 
the ordinary coal 
grate. 

Beautiful mantle 
draperies are quickly 
ruined by smoke and 
soot and coal dust, in 
spite of the watchful- 
ness of the neatest 
housekeeper, seems to 
be found everywhere 
— and as to economy 
— for instance, a lady 
has an afternoon 
^ caller — parlor chilly 



_i^j — fire ordered — before 
the fire is fairly well 
started, caller departs. 
Result — a grate full of coal gone to waste. This is 




^ 



64 



The Other Way. 65 

the *'old way.'* How dififerent with gas — a match — and 
you have a brilliant fire; when no longer required, gas 
is shut oflf and expense stopped. This is the ^^new way.'. 
Gas grates are made to fit all modern mantle openings, 
and can be placed and connected at very little expense. 

As in all lines of gas stoves these are made in many 
styles and vary in prices according to construction, 
design and material. An excellent gas grate can be 
purchased for from Eight to Ten Dollars — a grate hand- 
some enough for any parlor, and which will, in ten 
minutes raise the temperature of an ordinary room to a 
good comfortable heat. 

All gas grates have the same principle as to mixture 
of air and gas as have the gas ranges; the burner being 
fed in the same way. 

In lighting, do not apply match simultaneously with 
turning on the valve; for should there be air in the 
burner it might fire back into the mixer and blacken the 
asbestos. 

Allow gas to escape a few seconds in order that the 
air may be expelled from the burner ; then sweep the 
match quickly across the asbestos. You will find this 
the easiest way to light a gas grate. 

Should, however, the grate fire back into the mixer, 
immediately turn it ofifand re-light. 

Many artistic styles of gas logs are also used, these 
being placed on andirons in large fire places, and when 
lighted resemble very much the old-fashioned wooden 
logs 



'Awkins at 'Ome. 



EVERYBODY who visits New York and San Francisco 
goes to see the Bowery and Chinatown, but I make 
bold to say, without fear of contradiction, that not one 
out of ten thousand tourists who visit London ever 
think it worth their while to make a voyage of discovery to 
the East End, the home of costermonger 'Awkins and his 
"donah." 

And yet the costermonger is one of the sights of London — a 
quaint, romantic figure, absolutely unique and inimitable, living 
among his own people, whose customs and manners, I might 
almost say language, differ entirely from those of the rest of 
the community. The costermonger, as a rule, is a hardwork- 
ing, law-abiding citizen. Four o'clock in the morning sees him 
on his way to one of the great London markets, perhaps 
Spitalfields or Covent Garden for "wegetables" or to Billings- 
gate for the toothsome "bloater," or the succulent "haddick," 
his "moke" trotting along cheerfully, knowing that he will get 
his breakfast on his arrival at the market, and perhaps a "chew" 
of his master's "baccy" when the meal is finished — for the 
"moke," as a rule, shares beer and "baccy" with his master, and 
is considered by him as being quite "one of the fambly." It 
is amusing to see a "moke" swallow his "arf pint of 'arf an 'arf." 
His master pours the beer into a small bucket, and the donkey 
drinks it with evident gusto, as can be seen by the fetching 
manner in AVhich he winks his eyes. Having, in coster 
language "mopped it darn," the "moke" lets out a bray or two, 
as much as to say, "Gawd blimey, that 'ere beer's a knock out." 
Having completed his purchases at the market, the coster 
makes his way to the part of the town where his "round" is 
situated. This "round" is a certain number of streets and 
squares where the coster sells his fish or vegetables, and to him 
is a very valuable possession; for although he has no legal 



The Other Way, 67 

right or title to the sole possession of the "round," and any 
other coster can sell goods there if he is so inclined, yet there 
is an unwritten law among costers against interfering with an- 
other's "rounds," and 'Awkins can and does sell 'his "round" 
as an ordinary store-keeper sells the good-will of a business, 
sometimes asking as much as $5000 for it if the "round" is a 
profitable one, situated in a densely populated part of the town. 

On his arrival at his "round," the coster begins to cry his 
wares in a not unmusical voice. "Flowery ware!" "Fine in- 
guns!" "Large cowcumbers and marrers!" sings the "tater" 
merchant. "Fine Yarmouth bloaters and fresh smoked had- 
dicks!" "Kippers, a penny a pair!" "Buy a pair of live 
soles!" sings the "whelk broker," this last line of his song 
sounding to uninitiated ears very much like "buy a paralysed 
soul." Vegetables and fish are the principal wares of the Lon- 
don costermonger, though in summer time he derives con- 
siderable profit from the sale of cheap fruit. 

As soon as he has sold his stock, 'Awkins jumps into his 
"barrer," and, with many a strange oath, admonishes his 
"moke" to make a fast pace for home. On reaching home, the 
"moke" is attended to first, the coster realizing that the suc- 
cess of his business is absolutely dependent on his "moke's" 
good health. When the donkey has been made comfortable for 
the nigiht, his master retires into his "diggins" to "clean hisself 
up." And what a transformation there is in his appearance 
after he has "cleaned up." In his ordinary suit of workaday 
corduroy, the coster is anything but picturesque, but in his 
"Sunday best" he is as quaint a figure as the peasant of the 
Roman Campagna. Behold 'Awkins "cleaned up" and dressed 
in his gala suit. His pants fit quite tightly as far as the knee, 
but from the knee downward bulge out in the shape of a bell, 
and are striped on each side by long strips of velvet. On each 
side of the velvet stripes again are long rows of pearl buttons, 
and round the edge of the huge bell-shaped bottoms of the 
pants are sewn innumerable half-moon shaped pieces of mother- 
of-pearl. His coat is a wonder, a masterpiece of velvet and 
pearl buttons, the flaps of the pockets being of lighter colored 



68 The Other Way, 

velvet than the rest of the coat, half-moon shaped and literally- 
covered with pearl buttons. His costume is completed by a 
"Bill Sykes" cap, a creation of the "Worth" of the East End. 

With a jaunty step 'Awkins moves along the street, perhaps 
stopping to take "a 'arf pint 'o thick" (porter) at a public house 
on the way, or perhaps stopping to buy a pint of periwinkles for 
his "donah," whom he is on his way to visit. On his ckan 
shaven face there is a look of sublime self-satisfaction, for he 
without doubt considers himself one of the best and most 
fashionably dressed lads in London town. 

Sunday is the coster's day of days. Early in the morning the 
"moke an barrer" are made ready for a jaunt to some place of 
resort in the suburbs. 'Awkins and his "donah," she in a cos- 
tume fearfully and wonderfully conceived and fashioned, he 
habited in the East End's latest creation, take their seats in 
the "barrer" and drive ofif to Epping Forest, Tottenham, or 
perhaps to 'Ampstead 'Eath, and wherever the place may be, the 
coster and his maid plentifully bestrew the ground with fish 
bones, winkle, whelk, mussel, or cockle shells, ginger beer 
bottles, and scraps of bread and paper. Whenever the coster 
goes for a holiday he leaves a trail of this sort behind him. 
During the ride home, every public house is visited, and it is not 
an uncommon sight on Sunday evening in the East End of 
London to see 'Awkins and his "donah" in a state of semi-in- 
toxication, and the "moke" more intoxicated than either of 
them. The "moke" is as a rule, inordinately fond of beer, and 
when the coster is out on a holiday jaunt 'he treats the "moke'* 
to all the "swipes" he can swallow. 

As soon as 'Awkins begins to get at all noisy, a stalwart, blue- 
coated custodian of the public peace invites him to visit the 
nearest police-station. As Sunday is the coster's day of days, 
so IMonday is his day of reckoning. After having been lodged 
on Sunday night at the expense of her majesty he is brought up 
on Monday morning to offer his excuses to the sitting "beak." 
Many and wonderful are the excuses that he can offer. Often- 
times he has been "striked wiv a wikness in the 'ead," or has 
been "out in the sun," and on one occasion I heard a coster tell 



The Other Way. 69 

the "beak" that he had been "ipnitzed" by his "moke," for the 
^'bloomin hanimal" had turned end for end in the shafts of the 
*'barrer" and had trotted all the way home "tail fust." 

On another occasion I saw a coster being tried by Montague 
Williams, the Magistrate at the Thames police court. The 
charge against the coster was that he had stolen a pair of pants 
which were exposed for sale outside a clothier's store. The 
magistrate enquired whether the prisoner had anything to say 
or any excuse to offer before he sentenced him for the offense 
he had committed. The following was the coster's answer: — 
"Strike me bloomin' pink, guvnor, I'll tell yer the 'ole troof, 
s' elp me Gawd I will. As I was a comin' home in the barrer, 
I sees my pal Bill. Wot cher, says 'e, 'ullo says I. Wot d'yer 
say to a pot o' black an' tan, says 'e. Awl right, says I, an' in 
we goes. An' as we was a moppin' darn the swipes, I 'ears a 
bloomin' row outside, so I picks up my little stick wot I keeps 
for keepin' of the dawgs from a-worrying of the wegetables, an' 
out I goes. Jus' then, up comes one of them 'ere bloomin' om 
Hbusses — you knows 'em, yer wasshup, — an' 'ead over 'eels goes 
the moke an' barrer, an' 'ead over 'eels goes me. An' as a 
drownin' man ketches at a strawer, I ketched at them 'ere 
kicksies. Jus' then, up comes one of them bloomin' bluebottles, 
— you knows 'em yer wasshup, — Ah! says 'e, I aint a-doing 
nuffin' says I. ' Ennyow, ses 'e, you comes alog o' me! An* 
in corse I comed ,an' 'ere I is. But if I aint as hinnercent as a 
hunborned kid, I 'opes as 'ow yer bloomin' wasshup '11 never 
see 'evin. Gawd blimey, I does." 

The magistrate awarded him six months' hard labor as a trib- 
ute to his ingenuity and eloquence. The prisoner retorted that 
he could "do that 'ere lot on 'is 'ead." 

Sometimes 'Awkins takes a holiday during the week and of 
course takes 'Liza with him. He, like most Englishman, takes 
his pleasure sadly. The two most prominent places of amuse- 
ment for him and his "donah" are the cemeteries and the crim- 
inal and divorce court, especially the latter. Having settled 
with his "dutch" that they will go to 'ear the 'ole bear di-worce 
the appy cupples," they wend their way to the great palace of 



yo TJic Other Way. 

justice in the Strand. At last they are within the doors, and are 
confronted with the wonderful labyrinths of corridors into 
which innumerable staircases lead, and they feel that they have 
entered into a terra incognito indeed. The "handwriting upon 
tihe wall" does not convey much to 'Awkins. He can read that 
this is "Chancery Court, No. 3 and that, "Queen's Bench 
Court, No. 4, but the hurrying, bustling, throng of bewigged 
barristers, solicitors, witnesses, jurors and clerks, makes it no 
very easy matter to procure admission into many of these 
tribunals. Especially is this so of the divorce court, for the 
sturdy janitor who guards the doors, sternly refuses admission 
to all and sundry unless they are capable of such a transparent 
subterfuge as to declare that they are "in the case." 'Awkins 
eventually finds his way to the corridor leading to the Divorce 
Court and en passant he stops to listen to an indignant wife who 
is relating with all the volubility of despair the tale of her con- 
jugal wrongs to a crowd of her sympathising friends. 

At last he reaches the door of the court and 'he turns round 
to 'Liza and tells her "that he is going to chawnce 'is arm and 
get in. Gawd blimey, he is." He approaches the janitor and 
without a moments hesitation he informs him that he, 'Awkins, 
is "in the case," and so is his "dutch." The janitor allows them 
to pass into the court, where they sit until the court rises and 
do not scruple to show their interest in the grewsome narra- 
tives which are there unfolded. 

There is an old story told of one of the Judges, Sir Cresswell 
Cresswell, that in cne case he was trying, all women were or- 
dered out of court. In spite of the edict, some few "blimey 
gals" stuck to their seats. "All respectable women," thundered 
the Judge, "will leave the court." "The blimey gal?," however, 
still remained. "Since all respectable women have left the 
court," said the Judge, "the case can proceed." 

Then up rose one of the coster girls and asked the Judge if 
he thought that "they were all bloomin' sardines an' had bin 
tinned up all their lives? She'd 'ave 'im to know that she was 
a respecable woman, wiv eleven kids, an' if that didn't make 
'er respecable,' wot did?" "Wot right ad an' 'ole 'orse-'air- 



The Other Way. 71 

'eaded rip like 'im to talk about their characters? Wait till he 
was the father of eleven kids an' then he cud talk about respeca- 
bility." After a tirade lasting until the marshal of the court 
could make his way to where she was sitting, she concluded by 
saying that " 'e looked like wot 'e was— one of Sating's himps 
wiv a wig on, cos 'e couldn't be no man, as Gawd said that na 
man was to part marrid cupples, and no man would hinsult re- 
specable, 'elpless wimmin. A Sating's himp an' a hold un at 
that." 

The Judge was dumbfounded for a minute or so, but quickly 
recovered his self-possession. He then told her that, according to 
her philosophy, he was eminently disreputable, as he had the 
misfortune to be childless. It is needless to say that the woman 
was severely punished for her gross contempt of court. 

Under any and all circumstances of poverty and prosperity, 
health and sickness, happiness and trouble, the coster is a very 
interesting study. Even their weddings and funerals are char- 
acterised by a quaintness peculiar to themselves. I remember 
seeing a coster wedding at St. Paul's Churchy Whitechapel. The 
coster and his "dutch" had listened decorously to the vicar as 
he read the marriage service to them. At length the clergyman 
arrived at that portion of the service where he is required to ask 
the b:idegroom, "Wilt thou have this woman to be thy wedded 
wife;" the vicar having asked the question, he and the small 
congregation who were witnessing the ceremony were fairly 
electrintd by the coster's answer: "Gawd blimey, guvnor, if it's 
all the same to vcu, I'd sooner 'ave 'er sister!" The parson 
duly married the couple, but history tclleth not of the fate of the 
ccster at the hands of his bride. 

Let us change from the spectacle of a coster's marriage to the 
solemn scene of a coster v/oman's death in a hospital. About 
LWtnty-five years ago I was junior house su'-geon at the L )ndon 
hospital ir \h^ Whitechapel Road. One morning a coster 
woman was brought into the accident ward, she having been 
run over by a brewer's dray. Her injuries were severe, and 
both of her legs were amputated. After the operation, she be- 
cran to sink rapidly, and as I saw she was dying I ordered the 



72 The Other Way. 

screen to be placed round her bed in the open ward, and, at her 
request, sent for her husband. On his arrival, I took him 
lehind the screen to see his wife. It was necessary for me to- 
remain near to administer stimulants, etc., and while I was there 
I could not help overhearing the following conversation: 

Bill — Gawd blimey, Marfa, me 'cart's broke, strike me 'and- 
some it is, Marfa. 

Martha — Yuss, Bill, I knowed it wud be, but I wants yer to- 
do sutthing for me, Bill. 

Bill — Ennyfing in the wuld. Marfa, yer knows I'd do for yer; 
now don't yer? 

Martha — Yuss. Bill. I finks so. But I wants yer to promise 
me one fing, Bill. 

Bill— Wot's that. Marfa? 

Martha — I wants yer to promise me yer won't git marrid 
ag'in, cos o' the kids. Bill. 

Bill — I promise yer I won't. Marfa. s'elp me Gawd, I won't. 
I don't want no noo wife, I don't! 

Martha— Well, Bill. I o'ny wish I cud bleeve yer, but yer 
allers was sich a bloody liar! . 

And so she died, with the faithful 'Awkins. liar though he 
might be. holding fast her hands as she passed through the 
shadows of the dark valley. I believe 'Awkins did eventually 
marry again, but that, as a "rag, and a bone, and a hank of hair"" 
would say. is another story. 




Table of Comparison between Cost of 
Cooking by Coal and Gas» 



We submit the following Table of Comparison, showing the 
result of a careful test made by us, between articles cooked on a 
Range and on a Gas Stove. 

RECORD OF COAIv RANGE. 





HOW 
COOKED 


WEIGHT 


Loss 
Per 

Cent 




ARTICLE 


BEFORE 
COOKING 


AFTER 
COOKIN'G 


TIME 


Blue Fish 

Rib of Beef. . . 

Chicken 

Beefsteak 

Ivamb Chops. , 
Sweet Potatoes 


Baked. . . 
Roasted . 
Roasted.. 
Broiled 
Broiled. • 
Steamed . 
Steamed. 
Boiled. . . 
Stewed.. 
Raked. . . 


3 lbs 

9 lbs. 8 oz . . 

3 lbs 

I lb. 2 oz. . . 
I lb. I oz . . 
T, lbs. =; oz. . 


2 lbs. I OZ. . 
,6 lbs. 8oz.. 

2 lbs. 2 oz . . 

13K OZ-- 
II oz . . 


32 
32 
30 
25 
32 


31 min 
I h 37 m 
£ hr 6 m 

11 min 

12 min 


White Potatoes 
Cauliflower. 


3 lbs. 8oz .. 
3 lbs. 12 oz . 








Tomatoes 


4 lbs 








Bread 




5 lbs. 2 oz. . 
3 lbs. 5 oz . 
2 lbs. 12 oz. 




46 min 
27 min 
30 min 


Sago Pudding. . 
I/emon Pie 


Baked...! 

Baked ... 

i 1 



Sauces for Fish, Beef and Cauliflower. 

Total time from lighting of fire until everything was ready to 
serve, 2 hours and 40 minutes. Of this time 30 minutes were 
required to heat the oven, leaving 2 hours and ten minutes actual 
cooking time. Weight of coal including lighting of fire 44 lbs. 
At the end of the time the fire was ready for more coal. Cost of 
coal, 44 lbs., at $600 per ton, 11.80 cents. Kindling, i cent. 
Total, 12.80 cents. 
73 



74 



The Other Way, 





RECORD OF GAS RANGE. 








HOW 
COOKED 


WEIGHT 


Loss 
Per 
Cent 




ARTICLE 


BEFORE 
COOKING 


AFTER 
COOKING 


TIME 


Blue Fish 

Bib of Beef 

Chicken 

Beefsteak 

I^amb Chops. . . 
Sweet Potatoes 


Baked... 
Roasted . 
Roasted . 
Broiled . . 
Broiled . . 
Steamed . 


3 lbs 

9 lbs. 4 oz. . 
3 lbs. I oz. . 
I lb. 2 oz. . . 

I lb 

3 lbs. 5 oz. . 


2 lbs. 6 oz. . 

7 lbs. II oz. 

2 lbs. lo oz. 

15 oz. 

13 j^ oz. 


20 
15 


35 min 
ih 25 m 
I hr 
8 min 

10 min 


White Potatoes 


Steamed. 
Stewed.. 


3 lbs. 8 oz . 

4 lbs 








Cauliflower. . 








Tomatoes 


Boiled. . . 
Baked.. 


3 lbs. 12 oz. 








Bread 


5 lbs. 7 oz.. 
3 lbs. 3 oz. . 
2 lbs. 14 oz. 




37 min 
28 min 


Sago Pudding. . 
Ivemon Pie 


Baked... . 




Baked.... 




22 min 













Sauces for Fish, Beef and Cauliflower. 

Total time from lighting of gas until everything was ready to 
serve, i hour and 50 minutes. Consumption of gas by test meter, 
38 feet. At $1.50 per thousand feet, cost 5 70 cents. 

Cost of Coal 12. 80 cents. 

Cost of Gas 5.70 cents. 

Saving over Coal 7. 10 cents— 55X per cent. 




Sad Iron Heater 
DotCi forget that a gas iron heater will heat 4 irons for 2 cents per hour 



The Other Way, 75 

Table of Comparison of Per Centa§:es in Loss After 
Cookingf. 

GAS STOVE FISH RANGE 

Cost 35c Cost 35c 

Product 28)^c Product 24^0 

Loss 6>^c lyoss loXc 

Saving of gas stove over range, 3^ cents. 

BEEF 

Cost i.66>^c Cost i.69^c 

Product i.38>^c Product 1.17c 

Loss 28^80 Loss 52^c 

Saviug of gas stove over range, 24^^ cents. 

CHICKEN 

Cost 61 Xc Cost 60C 

Product 52 ^c Product 60c 

Loss S^c Loss i7Xc 

Saving of gas stove over range, 8^ cents. 

STEAK 

Cost 24XC Cost 24XC 

Product 2o5^c Product i8r\c 



Loss 4>sc Loss 6/^^ 

Saving of gas stove over range, 2jV cents. 

CHOPS 

Cost 20c Cost 21^0 

Product i6^c Product i3J4^c 

Loss 3>^c Loss y^c 

Saving of gas stove over range, 4^ cents. 

The total saving in the cost of food cooked over Coal Range, 43 ^c. 

Saving in cost of gas over coal : 

(Cost of coal over gas, 46 per cent. ) 3tVoC. 

Total saving 47io%c. 



76 



The Other Way. 






Wk^^ 



iiliaiiii 




A Perfect Radiator for Office or Hall. 



The Passing of a Landmark* 



\F ONDON'S most famous criminal court, the Old Bailey, 
I (©* is doomed and the great Central Criminal Court of the 
t * — ^ city and county of London will in future be held at the 
Royal Courts of Justice in the Strand. 

The building itself is wretchedly plain and monstrously ugly 
and so far as the appointments of the interior are concerned it 
is safe to say that there is not a Justices' Court in the whole of 
the United States that could not compare more than favorably 
with this, the chief criminal court of the greatest city in the 
world. Badly ventilated, badly lighted and unutterably mis- 
erable in every way, one can imagine what a terrible damper 
must be put on the prisoner in the dock by his wretched sur- 
roundings and almost forgive the rather frequent attacks of 
choler and spleen with which the Judges are afflicted. 

Let us take a peep at the court on the day of a great trial. 
Having procured the necessary passes from the Sheriff, or 
anointed the itching palm of the "bobby" on duty at the door 
with some golden oil, you pass through the doors of the court 
and find yourself standing on the ledge of what appears to be a 
deep well, the sides of which are terraced with seats. At the 
bottom of the well is a long table for members of the bar, a 
smaller table in front of the long one for Queen's counsel, or 
barristers who have taken "silk," and in front of and dominating 
the bar and the dock is the bench, on which a kind of a throne 
is built, its only ornament being a huge sword of justice, which 
is suspended just over the Judge's head. At the back of the 
bar and facing the Judge is the prisoners' dock, which is con- 
nected by an underground passage with the ancient prison of 
Newgate, where prisoners awaiting trial are detained. 

At about half-past 9 in the morning the court begins to fill, 
and despite the vigilance of police and ushers a motley crowd 
finds its way into the seats of this dreadful theater, where the 

77 



78 The Other Way. 

curtain has be€n rung down at the end of hundreds of horrible 
tragedies. The public in this court is unlike any other public. 
\¥orkmen out of work, loose women, hunters of taverns and 
hells, thieves at the commencement or close of their career, con- 
victs just released from prison, the lazy, the good-for-nothing and 
the good-for-nothing-else squeeze their way to the foot of the 
staircase which leads to the best seats. No sooner is the stair- 
case wicket opened than they rush down. They press each 
other, they elbow, they jostle, they stand on tip-toes and look 
from a distance like a black living mass, which sends forth rude 
exclamations^ stifled cries, coarse jokes and a brutal hubhub of 
ofifended decency, angry oaths and strange slang. The swindler 
and the assassin have come here to learn how a witness may be 
thrown out, how a question may be evaded, how an alibi may 
be invented, how a fact may be distorted and how the criminal 
code may be interpreted. Another man comes in there from 
mere curiosity, and goes out with the temptation of crime in his 
heart, a fruitful though tainted seed. The mania of imitation 
drives more people into crime than all the machinery of the 
law and the terrors of punishment can deter from it. The Cen- 
tral Criminal Court is a detestable school of immorality. 

By 10 o'clock the barristers in wigs and gowns have filed 
into their places at the bar, their clerks carrying brief bags and 
legal volumes, which they deposit on the table. The clerk of 
arraigns takes his seat immediately beneath the Judge's bench, 
and the ushers, in stentorian tones, call for "order in the 
court." Having quieted the din, the ushers proceed to open 
wide the door through which the Judge passes to take his seat 
on the bench, and the head usher orders everybody in court to 
stand up as the Judge enters the court, at the same time calling 
out the Judge's title and dignity in the following manner: "Sir 
Forrest Fulton, Knight, one of her Majesty's counsel. Common 
Sergeant of the City of London, and Judge of this present 
Court of Assize!" As soon as the Judge is seated, following an 
ancient custom, a small bowl of flowers is placed before him. 
This custom is a relic of the period when Newgate and the Old 
Bailey were wihout any sanitary system^ and the whole district 



The Other Way. 79 

was constantly afflicted with the deraded jail fever — typhus. 
The rosemary and thyme, which were then placed on the Judge's 
desk, were supposed to have the power of keeping the disease 
away from him. 

The clerk of arraigns now rises and call the first case, and like 
a jack-in-the-box, the accused springs up literally out of the 
ground, for he comes up through a trap-door in the floor of the 
dock. 

The clerk then pleads the indictment, and asks the prisoner — 
guilty or not guilty. The accused having pleaded, the first wit- 
ness is called and sworn, the oath being administered in the fol- 
lowing phraseology: "In this case between our sovereign 
lady the Queen and the prisoner at the bar, I swear to speak the 
truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help me, 
God!" And then the trial commences. 

Women of the world are not cruel, but they are the most 
curious creatures in the universe; they live on emotions; they 
die of emotions every five minutes; they have lovers for their 
verses and verses for their lovers; they must, forsooth, suffer to 
enjoy rUd enjoy to suffer. Your woman of the world dreads 
nothing so much as regular hours, a sleepy existence and the gen- 
ial indolence of the boudoir and the easy chair. She is forever 
on the wing from noon to night; at the theater, at the Senate, 
at church, in the park, at balls — she is always in search of what- 
ever may excite^ or amuse, or shake, or convulse, or upset her 
wretched body or her still more wretched soul. Everything she 
touches multiplies her existence. She ru&hes, with all her pas- 
sion and all her spirit, into every sensation that chances to cross 
her. Obstacles are nothing to her. She has made up her mind 
to see a thing and she will see it. She will write a dozen three- 
cornered notes on pink, perfumed paper to the Sheriff to obtain 
the favor of an adm^ission and a seat — a chair — nay, a stool — at 
the trial. 

At daylight she leaves her soft and warm bed to wait at the 
door of the court. There she stands, with a keen northeaster 
in her teeth and he: feet in the mud. She shivers all over. The 



8o The Other Way. 

door opens; she darts on; she presses forward, she crowds, she 
pushes, and at last she gets in through the ushers and the police 
and tne black gowns of the bar. She hangs on to the skirts of 
a policen^an's coat, talks to him softly in his ear, and does not 
let him go till she is placed and squatted at her case, with her 
eyeglass at her eye, close to the prisoner and near the Judge. 

If a woman in court faints she rushes up. cuts the lace and 
offers her smelling-salts — another sort of emotion. But unless 
the solid pillars of the court give way she will not give up her 
seat. Her eyes are riveted to the eyes of the prisoner; she clings 
to his lips; she feasts upon the ineffable terrors of a human 
soul. The hours fly. night is coming on. the jury has retired — 
still she waits — she waits to hear the fatal sentence and the 
wretched convict's sigh; she catches the last flutter of that tat- 
tered conscience; she listens for his slightest exclamation — for 
his stifled groan; she follows him with one long look when he 
is removed from the dock till the prison doors turn upon their 
hinges, and then she falls back on her chair, absorbed, over- 
powered by what she has seen. The usher is obliged to tell her 
that the court is cleared and to show her the way out. She 
drags herself along the passages of the building; she gets home 
— worn out, tired to death. 

The public prosecutor has accomplished his task, the Judge 
has done his duty and passed sentence, and the court is cleared. 
Not quite. Do you see that man dressed in black, resting his 
head on his hands? Pie is the prison chaplain, who has attend- 
ed the trial that the culprit might see that he had one friend on 
whom he could lean for strength and consolation. Verily, this 
minister is a father to his flock. In his pious attendance at the 
scaffold, where he will accompany the criminal who will in a few 
days suffer the pain of death, what resignation, w'hat courage, 
what strength of mind are required, to comfort, with looks and 
words of hope and peace, that miserable being who has almost 
irretrievably lost all hope of pardon from his offended Maker. 
Is there one among us, even moved by the most Christian feel- 
ings, and endowed at the same time with the pow-er of resisting 
the strongest agitation, who could bear — nay, who would under- 



The Other Way. 8i 

take by choice, that terrible duty which the pastor accomplishes 
with such majesty, even when his nature, betraying the torture 
of his mind, drops of cold sweat appear on his forehead? I 
think not. 



Wrinkles. 

POLISHING PASTE FOR TINS, BRASSES, AND 
COPPER. 

This is composed of rotten stone, soft soap^ and oil of tur- 
penjne; the stone must be powdered and sifted through a 
muslin or hair sieve; mix with it as much soft soap as will bring • 
it to t!ie st'fifness of putty; to half a pound of this add two ounces 
ol oil of t'lipentine: it may be made into balls; it will soon be- 
come hard, and will keep any length of time. Method of using: 
The articles to be polished should be perfectly free from grease 
and dirt; moisten a little of the paste with water, smear it over 
the metal, rub briskly with a dry rag or leather, and it will soon 
bear a beautiful polish. 

A good stove polish may be made with black lead mixed with 
the white of an ^%g; put on with a brush, and polish with a dry, 
hard brus'h. 

TO MEND BROKEN CROCKERY. 

We have used lime and the white of an egg for mending 
earthen-ware, and find it most satisfactory. It is a strong 
cement easily applied, and generally at hand. Mix only enough 
to mend one article at a time, as it soon hardens, when it cannot 
be used. Powder a small quantity of the lime and mix to a paste 
with the white. Apply quickly to the edges, and place firmly 
together. It will soon become set and strong, seldom breaking 
in the same place again. 



How to Read the Statement of Your 
Gas Meter* 




EACH division on the right hand circle denotes loo 
feet, and on the center circle i,ooo feet, and on 
the left hand circle 10,000 feet. To take a state- 
ment from the meter, begi7i at the left a7id write down 
the lowest figure next to the hand on each circle ^ which in 
the diagram are 3, 2 and 3, showing the statement to be 
32,300. If at a former observation the hands w^ere at 
the dotted lines, the statement the7i was 20,200; the 
difference between the two statements is the amount of 
gas consumed; viz.: 12,100 cubic feet. 

The small circle at the top shows more perceptibly 
than the others the passing of a small quantity of gas, 
and is useful in ascertaining leakage in the house-pipes 
or fixtures. 

All gas stoves should be connected with pipe not less 
than one-half inch (inside measurement) for short con- 
nections; where the line is long, three-fourths inch 
83 



The Other Way. 83 

pipe should be used in order to insure a good supply to 
stove. 

In many of - the older houses the pipes are very small 
and in some cases it is found difficult to get sufficient 
supply for lighting without frequent cleaning out. In 
such houses separate supply pipe should be run for 
cooking or heating gas. 

This pipe, to which a separate meter could be 
attached, should be run from the front of the house 
direct to the gas range in the kitchen with branches to 
other heating appliances, grates, etc., used. 

This permits the company to make two separate bills 
— one for lighting, and one for gas used for cooking 
and heating purposes. 

A lower rate is charged where the consumer ow^ns 
stoves and heaters and has a separate pipe and meter 
for their supply. Many consumers do not understand 
why they are not entitled to a reduced rate where 
meters are attached to ranges or heaters in rooms. These 
are intermediate meters — are simply for the accommo- 
dation of the stove user. No bills are made by company 
from meters other than those outside of the house, which 
meters must be accessible at all times to the statement 
taken, from whose report the bills are made. 

Intermediate meters are useful in determining con- 
sumption of gas as between landlord and tenant, there 
being many houses rented in apartments for light house- 
keeping. In these cases, the gas bill being made by the 
company to one party, (the house holder) for all gas 
passing into the building. Meters are attached to the 



84 The Other Way. 

gas stoves in order that he may collect from the tenant 
for such gas as may be used. 

Intermediate meters should be connected to stoves or 
heaters with iron pipe. Never use flexible rubber tubing 
for this purpose, as it is unsafe. Tubing is only intended 
to be used where connection is made from gas jet and 
where portable stoves, iron heaters, etc., of small con- 
sumption, are required. Do not connect gas ranges or 
large hot plates with tubing and expect good results. 
The tubing will not supply gas enough for large stoves, 
ranges, etc. It is far more satisfactory' to connect all 
stationary appliances with one-half inch iron pipe. You 
are then sure of ample supply when you need it and by 
shutting off the gas at the stop cock, which should be 
provided in tU cases, the stove can be conveniently 
removed when desired. 

Wrinkles, 

To niake an excellent furniture polish: Take turpentine, lin- 
seed oil. and vinegar, in equal proportions; apply and rub with 
riannel. 

A li.tle soap put on the hinges or latch of a door will stop 
creakiUfc. 

Salt will curdle milk; hence in preparing gravies, porridge, 
€tc., the salt should not be added till the dish is prepared. 

Il your flat-irons are rough or soiled, lay some salt on a flat 
surface, and rub the face of the iron well over it. 

Rub your griddle with fine salt before you grease it, and your 
cakes v;ill not stick. 



Hanuman^s Servants^ 



'J^^^ HE lives we need to have written for us are of the people 

^^ whom the world has never thought of, far less heard 

of," says Ruskin, and if he is right, there could not be 

a more fitting story to tell than this of a race of men 

-adorned — or rather disfigured — with tails. For certainly very 

few have ever heard or thought of them. 

In the northeast of Assam, in India, there are a race of people 
who term themselves Ahoms. The word "Ahom" is derived 
irom the Sanskrit and means unequaled. These Ahoms declare 
that they are descended from the god Indra, to whom all other 
^ods are subordinate, and they say that they, and they alone, can 
lead one to the country of the men with tails. Be this as it may, 
it was not until after the annexation of Upper Burmah, on the 
1st of January, 1896, that living specimens of the tailed tribe 
■were seen by white men. Colonel Philip Stevens, an officer of 
the British force, sent to aid the Rajah of Assam against the 
Mogul Emperor in 1770, writes that "here in this ungodly coun- 
try do the men and women possess tails like unto the tail of an 
ape:" but it is difficult to believe that in those times the natives 
had confidence enough in the white men to allow him to see the 
beings, who, according to the native idea, are the real servants 
cf the ape god, Hanuman. 

In April, 1896, the Fourth Ghoorkas were sent from Mandalay 
in Burmah to Shillong in Assam, and as they marched through 
the ountry of the Ahoms some slight difficulty arose between 
the British officers of the regiment and the priests of the Ahoms. 
It was very wet weather at the time and the officers wished to 
quarter some of the troops in a large barnlike structure on the 
outskirts of a village. The priests strenuously objected to hav- 
ing the Ghoorkas quartered there at all, but as a storm was rag- 
ing at the time the priests were ordered to open the barn and 
3.11f \v the soldiers to take shelter. They refused to obey the oi- 
■dcr, and the officers immediately ordered the soldiers to force 
an eni.ran:e. 
85 



86 The Other Way. 

The door having been opened, two officers entered the place 
to see what grain, etc., was stored there and to take an inven- 
tory, so that if any was stolen or damaged by the troops, due 
compensation could be made to the owners. But to their sur- 
prise, the barn was fitted up inside as a temple, and contained 
no rice or grain of any kind. At one end of the place wa:> erect- 
ed a large platform, on which stood an immense idol of the 
monkey god Hanuman. Smaller idols of the same god were 
ranged round the barn, together with horns, cymbals, tom-toms- 
and all the necessary accessories of the priests who conducted 
the religious services of the temple. 

On the platform, near the great idol, sat a man and woman 
and two children. To all appearances, they were only ordina y 
natives, but they were absolutely unclothed. Not a waistcloth 
or covering of any kind hid their nakedness, and frighten*:d, a& 
they evidently were at the appearance of white men, they did not 
move from their position near the idol. Their faces were hor- 
ribly painicd with ochre, and they kept up a monotonous kind 
of chant, which sounded weird and uncanny to their European- 
visitors. The officers spoke to them and asked them to come 
into the light, so that they might be seen. They still remained 
near the iaol, however, and returned no answer to the questions 
of the officers. At length, the high priest of the place arrived,, 
and he was appealed to for the removal of the four persons on 
the platform. 

At first he declined to have them removed, as he said they 
were very holy people, servants and favorites of the great god 
Hanuman; but after considerable argument he at length decided 
to obey the orders of the white officers. He advanced toward 
the platform, making deep salaams and reverences as he went 
along. When he was about three paces from the edge of the 
platform he suddenly stopped, and prostrating himself on the 
g-ronnd, in a mournful tone he implored the man and woman to 
accompany him to his house for the night, as the holy temple 
of Hanuman had been desecrated by low-caste Ghoorkas and 
unbelieving Feringhis, and it would not be safe for the servants 



The Other Vlay. 87 

O'f the god to remain in the temple, while it was occupied by the 
troops. 

Still keeping up their weird chant, the man and woman rose 
to their feet and descended from the platform. They then lifted 
the two children to the ground, and together with the high 
priest, made their way to the door. As they passed out into the 
li^ht, the officers were thunderstruck to see that each and all of 
the four, man, woman and two children, possessed tails. The 
man and woman seemed to have perfect control of their tails, 
wagging them slowly from side to side, keeping time to the 
tune, if it could be called a tune, of their uncanny hymn. The 
children, on the contrary, seemed to possess no control over 
their caudal appendages, and with the exception of some slight 
involuntary, spasmodic wags, their tails hung loosely down. All 
the tails were covered with hair, and terminated in a small bul- 
Idous formation. The man and woman were dwarfish, not ex- 
ceeding four feet six inches in height, and their toes were pre- 
hensile and unduly developed. This peculiarity was not so 
marked in the children, although it was noticed that they walked 
with a peculiar ape like tread and stoop. The little ones were 
rather pretty, and gazed around with a look of wonderment at 
the officers and soldiers who were congregated around the door. 

When they were out in the open it was seen that the man was 
a leper, part of one hand already having disappeared, and the 
other hand and arm being badly affected. The woman with him 
was not uncomely, except for the simiam-like manner in which 
she carried herself. She was scrupulously clean, and had her 
face not been daubed with ochre and powdered sandalwood, she 
would have had quite a pleasing appearance. 

The Ghoorkas are a very superstitious people, and as the 
tailed ones pa'^sed out of the barn, many remarks were passed 
by the soldiers, some of them going so far as to propO'Se the in- 
stant killing of parents and babes, so that bad luck would not 
■come upon the troops. It was amusing to see the little wiry 
Nepaulese soldiers searching knapsack and pockets for a "jadoo" 
or charm of some kind to ward off any evil influence which 



88 The Other Way. 

might result from being in sncli close contact with the "bunder 
ka bhodt" or n'cnkey spirits 

The four tailed ones had been duly installed in the high 
priest's hut, and the troops had taken up their quarters in the 
barn, when the high priest appeared before the officers begging 
for "dwei" or medicine for the leper. One of the senior officers 
invited th^ priest into the barn and asked him for some infor- 
mation about the people with tails — where they came from, who 
they were what caste they were, etc. The priest then told the 
following stcry: 

"Sahibs, for tlie last twelve months a demon has been among 
us. It is the demon *Oop.' sahibs, and he has a snake's body 
and a man's head. Tusks also has he like an elephant, and a 
great red flaming tongue about five feet long. Every night he 
prowls around the village, and two or three nights a week he 
takes one of our wives or children as they go to the well to draw 
water. He is here now, sahibs, and we send our women folk 
to draw water in the daytime, for it is dangerous to go to the 
well when the sun is dead. Many poojahs did we perform, O 
sahibs, but Hanuman has been angry and has turned his face 
from us. After much prayer, our priests went to the country 
of Hanuman's servants, who all have tails, as the sahibs have 
seen, and there they found the holy man and woman and their 
two offspring. They are the true servants of Hanuman, and 
our priests brought them hither, that they might by their minis- 
trations propitiate our god, who is angry. The country of these 
people is far north from here, and all the inhabitants have tails, 
even as the people whom the sahibs have seen. But the demon 
*Oop' has not departed from among us. and last night the 
daughter of Dukhee, the herdsman, was taken away from the 
jungle where the demon devoured her. The 'bhoot' (demon) 
lives in a big tree, in the jungle, and Kandoora, the daughter 
of Dukhee. spat under the tree as she walked through the jungle. 
Therefore, the demon has destroyed her. The rain has now 
stopped. Will the sahibs order that the low-caste Ghoorkas 
leave the temple so that we may perform our evening poojahs?" 

Of course, the troops were ordered to vacate the place for the 



The Other Way, 89 

time being,, and five or six fakirs, accompanied by the man and 
woman and their two children, filed into the temple, chanting 
as usual their monotonous, weird hymn to Hanuman. With 
incessant clashing of cymbals and blowing of horns, the priests 
performed the "poojah" or religious ceremony, and having fin- 
ished, departed silently. But not so the tailed ones; they squat- 
ted down against the big idol and absolutely refused to move. 
At last the curiosity of the Ghoorkas overcame their superstition 
and they filed into the temple, gaping with awe at the spectacle 
on the platform in front of them. And a strange sight it was. 

Sitting in the lurid light of some half-dozen torches, the man 
and woman were looking .'ingiily in the direction of the soldiers. 
Their painted fi'ccs gave ther; a demoniacal appearance, and the 
constant thumping of their tails on the platform struck fear into 
the hearts of the bravest soldiers in the world. Every now and 
again the man vv'ould prostrate himself before the idol, at which 
time the woman would raise her voice to a higher and more 
weird cadence than usual. The children were as all children are 
— child-like; one moment laughing together, and the next quar- 
reling over a flower or a cowrie or something of the kind. 

The soldiers were almost terrified at the sight, and it was with 
difficulty ihat the officers could induce them to stop in the tem- 
ple at all. One of the soldiers, more venturesome than the rest, 
gave the children some fruit, which they devoured with gusto, 
and then another Ghoorka gave them some "chupatties" or pan- 
cakes. The father and mother then held out their hands for 
some food, and the officers gave them fruit and rice pudding 
from their own table. The father would not eat the food, but 
the mother devoured it as quickly as possible. While the poor 
creatures were eating, two of the priests made their way into the 
temple, and on seeing the woman and children eating food 
which had been given to them by low-caste Ghoorkas and Fer- 
inghis, they set up such a howl that all the village was quickly 
gathered round the temple door to see what the matter was. 

"Listen, my brothers, listen!" said one of the priests. "It was 
not enough that the low-caste Ghoorkas should invade the 
sanctity of the god's temple, but they have taken away the caste 



go The Other Way. 

of Hanuman's servants. Cursed be she who accepted their 
food. Cursed be her offspring. May they be eaten by 
demons. Ho, thou she-wolf, come away from the sacred place 
and bring thy cubs with thee!" 

The wretched leprous man also cursed his wife and children 
and told them to be gone, and so great did the uproar become 
that the officers ordered the men to form up and clear the place 
of the fanatical devotees of Hanuman. The woman was struck 
by the priests several times, but gathering her children to her, 
she tried to pass out of the temple unobserved. One of the offi- 
cers, however, saw her, and fearing for her life, ordered her to 
be placed under arrest. The brutal husband and father was or- 
dered to quit the temple forthwith, and the priests, taking him 
in charge, led him to the high priest's hut to pass the night. A 
strong guard Vv^as placed round the temple, and soon the whole 
village was quiet again. 

At about 2 o'clock in the morning a shot was heard, and was 
immediately succeeded by a frightful howling. The troops at once 
turned out, only to be informed by one of the sentries that he had 
shot a tiger near the village well. The officers proceeded tow^ards 
the well, and there saw an old mangy tigress in the throes 
of death, while beside her lay the dead daughter of the high 
priest. The beast had seized her while she lay on the veranda 
of her father's dwelling, and, having killed her by one blow of 
her powerful paw, was dragging her towards her lair when the 
sentry fired. Words cannot adequately describe the father's 
grief when he was informed of his daughter's death, and he 
ascribed all the trouble of that night to the god's anger at his 
temple having been desecrated and his servants outcasted. The 
sentry had, however, rid the village of the demon "Oop," for 
no doubt the man-eating tigress was responsible for the disap- 
pearance of all the missing women and children, but so high 
was the feeling against the tailed woman and her offspring that 
the officers decided to carry them in a bullock cart to Shillong. 

The troops moved away from the village at about 7 a. m., the 
woman and her children being closely guarded in the bullock 
cart. Before their arrival at Shillong one of the children died 



The Other Way. 91 

from malarial fever, and it was more than pitiful to see the 
grief of the remaining little one. The mother had lapsed into a 
stony silence, and neither the tears of the babe nor the constant 
kindness of the officers, had power to move her to utter one 
word. She remained in this condition until she reached Shil- 
long. 

The Commissioner ordered the woman and child to be sent 
to Calcutta, to be taken care of by the Roman Catholic Sisters, 
and after a long journey they duly reached their destination. 
Lord Dufferin, the then Viceroy of India, requested that photo- 
graphs of the tailed woman and her little one be secured, but 
no amount of coaxing or persuasion could induce the woman to 
enter the photographer's studio. At last a strong opiate was 
administered to her in some brandy — of which she was inor- 
dinately fond — and another attempt was made to get her into 
the studio. She walked into the studio very quietly and ap- 
peared to be in a dazed condition, owing to the opiate, until the 
photographer in adjusting the camera placed his head under a 
black cloth. When she saw him do this she became terrified, 
and with a piercing shriek she rushed to the window and threw 
herself out. She fell a distance of sixty-three feet to the ground 
and was quite dead when picked up. The only photograph 
taken was that of her little son, who died shortly afterwards in 
Calcutta. 

That there is a race of human being who possess tails is un- 
doubted, for it would be impossible for the ignorant natives of 
Assam to collect mere freaks for exhibition purposes. They 
have no use for such things. But just where the country the 
tailed tribe inhabit is situated, it is impossible to say. Certain 
it is that the priests of the hill tribes of Assam can find tailed 
men and women for service in their temples when they want 
them, but not for all the gold of India would they catch these 
human apes and sell them to become the sport and playthings of 
the white man. They are the true servant of Hanuman, the 
monkey god of the Hindoos. 



Don't waste your gas aud blame the meter. 

DonH light your stove and then take a kettle to the sink to filK 

Fill it first. 
Don't let your stove become dirty, aud expect economical results. 
Don't let the burners under the water back run indefinitely. 

When boiler is hot turn it off, aud — 
Don't heat a boiler full of water, when you need only a gallon 

for dishes. 
Don't let 3'our lights burn all night and charge it to the gas range^ 
Don't allow your flame to get j'ellow; admit more air, not 

too much. 
Don't light your ovens and let them go. Regulate them carefully, 

using a hand glass. Scorched meat or bread is not the fault 

of the range. 
Don't light your ovens, and then delay using them for a half hour. 
Don't kick about your bill, and quote your friend's small cooking 

expense. She is probabl}- more careful. (May be she is a 

better cook.) 
Don't forget that So per cent of your coal is wasted; 20 per cent 

only (the gas in it) is heat; the balance goes up chimney, 

settles on j-our carpets aud hangings, and helps make house- 
keeping drudgery. 
Don't fail to learn how to read your meter. It may save you 

many a false alarm and nervous shock. Meter cards supplied 

on demand 
Don't expect a gas range to be efficient when you have insufficient 

supply from the meter. Regulate your pressure with the 

stop cock behind stove. 
Don't neglect to read the instructions in this book carefully and 

comprehensively. Learn all about your range. It is far less 

complicated than your sewing machine, every piece of which 

you doubtless thoroughly' understand. 
92 



^ In the Land of the Lamas ^ 

HE return of Mr. Landor from far Thibet, with twenty- 
^^ two wounds and an injured spine as the result of his 
temerity in penetrating into the heart of the country 
of the Lamas, does not tend to reassure travelers and 
explorers whose ambitions would lead them to visit the realms 
where Mahatmas are said to reign supreme; but it must be 
borne in mind that many travelers, both experienced and inex- 
perienced, have penetrated far into Thibet and returned in 
safety to give the world the benefit of their geographical and 
scientific researches. 

We have not yet been informed in what part of Thibet Mr. 
Landor met with such savage treatment. More than likely, 
some of the many wandering bands of banditti are responsible 
for his injuries; but these bands are only to be met with in far 
Eastern Thibet, on the Chinese frontier. So far no European 
explorer jias ever been seriously injured in Thibet. And al- 
though the Lamas have an intense hatred of any foreigner en- 
tering their sacred towns and temples, they would hardly go 
so far as to torture, although they would, and do, sternly in- 
sist on the traveler leaving the vicinity of the towns or monas- 
teries, and will absolutely refuse to supply him with the bare 
necessities of life, even if he is in sore straits. 

The Thibetans are a very social people, and all possible cir- 
cumstances, especially marriages and births, are made oc- 
casions for feasting and enjoyment. And occasions of this kind 
are many, for polyandry has been practiced among them from 
the earliest times, and as a consequence, there is always a 
marriage feast going on in any village one may happen to 
strike on the road of travel. Polyandry has been carried by the 
spread of the Thibetan race into more genial countries, such 
as Bhutan, Sikkim, Eastern Turkestan and Nepeul, but it is 
only by the most ignorant classes of these countries that it is 
practiced. 



94 The Other Way. 

The joint husbands are usually, but not always, brothers. 
The wedding ceremony takes place at the house or tent of the 
bride's parents, after adequate presents have been offered by the 
elder brother, husband or bridegroom, and without the as- 
sistance of any priest. It consists chiefly in the engagement 
of the intending spouses, and the placing of a piece of butter 
by the bride's parent on the head of the bridegroom, and by 
his parent on the head of the bride. Unless otherwise stated 
by the mother in each case, the elder husband is the putative 
father of the children, and the others are "uncles." Temporary 
marriages are recognized throughout Thibet, whether con- 
tracted for six months, or perhaps a week, or perhaps two days, 
and that these unions are not held immoral, one, may safely as- 
sert that, as regards their marriage relations, this people are 
little removed from promiscuity, which is only indefinite 
polyandry joined with indefinite polygamy. 

If the marriage customs of the Thibetans are strange, their 
burial customs are even more peculiar. First the hair is 
plucked out from the top of the head in order to facilitate trans- 
migration. The corpse is not disposed of everywhere or always 
in the same way (lack of fuel sometimes preventing cremation), 
and the Lamas decide whether it is to be put away by interment, 
by throwing into the river, or by exposure to beasts and birds 
of prey. The last named mode (regarded as very honorable) 
has almost disappeared in the west, but is still practiced in the 
east and central provinces; the body is cut in pieces and the 
bones broken into fragments by professional corpse butchers, 
and when all the flesh has been devoured at the selected spot, 
called "dur krod." to which the body has been previously 
carried, it is not unusual to throw the remaining fragments of 
the broken bones into the river; sometimes the phalanges of 
the fingers are preserved to be used in rosaries. The Lamas 
are generally inhumed in a sitting posture, the knees being 
brought up to the chin and corded together as tightly as pos- 
sible. In the case of distinguished high priests, the body is 
burned in a metal vessel, the ashes being afterward carefully col- 
lected to be made into an image of the deceased. 



The Other Way, 95 

The funeral services take place before the crops are gathered, 
except in the case of very poor people, whose corpses are 
thrown into the streams at once after death. All those bodies 
which are to be disposed of by cremation or by being fed to the 
birds or dogs are put in wicker baskets, well salted, and kept 
until the time of the funeral. When the body is to be de- 
voured by birds of prey and dogs, the usual method is to lay 
the naked corpse on the ground, fastening it by a rope tied to 
a stake, so that it cannot be dragged about. But there is an- 
other more rec'herche and desirable mode followed, as was done 
some years ago with the body of the "living Buddha" at Lit'ang. 
This was carried out of the lamaserai or monastery on a stretch- 
er, which was followed by the abbot and his 3500 monks. Many 
of the latter (probably ri-tru-ba, or ascetics) had human jaw- 
bones fastened to their left arms, and skull bones hanging from 
their sides. The procession marched slowly to the top of a hill 
outside the town. The corpse was laid on the ground, and the 
abbot took his seat on a stone near by. 

Then some Lamas stripped the flesh off the body, commenc- 
ing with the arms, and handed the pieces to the abbo^t. These 
he held at arm's length in the air, when vultures and other 
birds of prey, which were sailing around in expectation of the 
feast, swooped down and snatched them from his hand. In 
this manner all but the bones were disposed of; then these 
were pounded into pulp, and the abbot mixed them with tsamba 
(parched barley) in his eating bowl and fed the balls thus made 
to the birds, reserving for his own private delectation the last 
ball of the unsavory mess. With this the ceremony was at an 
end. This form of obsequies, known as "celestial interment," 
is the most esteemed. 

The reason for the preference given to this "celestial inter- 
ment" is, I believe, found in the lamaist theory of the "inter- 
mediate state" between death and regeneration, which it is most 
desirable to shorten. Its length depends on the time requisite 
for the complete dissolution of the body, which here means its 
digestion by the birds, dogs or fishes. So, by feeding it to the 
birds, the period of "intermediate state" is reduced to a mini- 



96 The Other Way. 

mum; dogs come next, and nibbling fishes last in the line of 
professional resurrectionists. In the case of some of the high- 
est Lamas the body is mumified in the dry air of the country, 
wrapped in silks and satins, and placed in a monument. Mortu- 
ary services are held by the Lamas at the houses of the de- 
ceasedj to propitiate the judge in Hades, who weighs in his bal- 
ance the good and evil deeds of the dead. The length of these 
services, as of the services held by priests of any and all other 
religions, is regulated by that of the purse of the deceased's 
relatives. 

The Thibetans are generally farmers, no other occupation 
being open to them, if we except the priesthood; but they are 
at the same time keen traders, and he would be a very smart 
man who would get the better of them in a bargain, ignorant 
as they are of the Western modes of doing business. In the 
main, they are simple, truthful and honest, and were it not for 
the tyrannous power exercised over them by the Lamas there 
is every reason to believe that they would emerge from their 
present semi-savage state and attempt the development of their 
country. They are powerless, however, to do this so long as 
their country remains in its present priest-ridden state. 

The export of wool and hides from Thibet is growing en- 
ormously year by year, and it cannot be very long before these 
exceed in value the present most valuable export of Thibet — 
musk. Some conception of the magnitude of the export of 
musk may be had from the fact that the agent of one foreign 
firm of Shanghai purchases over $150,000 worth annually. 
Nearly all the musk before it is brought over the frontier is 
adulterated by the Thibetans with blood, liver, etc., so that of 
one "cod" they make four or five. Concerning musk and its 
adulterations Caesar Fredericke says: "There is a certaine 
beaste in Tartaria which is wilde and as big as a wolfe, which 
beaste they take aliv and beat him to death with small staves, 
that his blood may be spread through his whole body; then 
they cut it in pieces and take out all the bones and beat the 
flesh in a mortar very small, and dry it and make purses to put 
it in of the skin, and these be the cods of muske." And 



The Other Way. 97 

Hokluyt, the editor, adds: "This muske the Jewes doe coun- 
terfeit and take out halfe the good muske and beat the flesh of 
an asse and put in the room of it," 

And it is not only musk that these people adulterate. Every- 
thing salable is adulterated if it will admit of it. I recollect 
seeing a caravan of wool merchants coming through the Yalap 
pass with about 200 mules loaded with wool packed in skins. 
At the end of the pass they camped and prepared the midday 
meal. The meal finished, the men unloaded about fifty mules 
and deliberately placed the wool in a small running stream so 
that it might become soaked with water, and so weigh much 
heavier when they sold it at Gnatong, their next halting place. 
Again, the wool merchants will not open any of the skins so 
that tbe purchasers may see the quality' of the wool. It has to 
be bought as it stands, unopened, and it is no uncommon thing 
for the European buyer to find that about 30 per cent, of the 
weight is made up of stones, skins and bones. Of course, the 
buyer naturally cannot pay as much for this kind of material as 
he could for good wool, and so he in turn cheats by making 
his weights a good deal heavier than the supposed correct 
weights. If the Thibetan by any chance ever found out that 
the weights were incorrect, the European wool buyer would 
speedily have to make tracks from that region, for he would 
be unable to procure food to eat or water to drink, so bitter 
would be the feeling against him. The white man is known to 
the Thibetans as the man "who holds the balance even," and if 
their ideal is shattered nothing on earth would ever induce 
them to trade with a European again. 

The Thibetans are people after Darwin's own heart, for they 
firmly believe they are descended from the apes. According to 
their legend, Thibet was originally inhabited by animals and 
demons. At a certain period God sent to Thibet the king of 
the monkeys, who led there the life of a hermit. This hermit's 
exclusive occupation was .the performance of religious duties, 
and he was absorbed in the pursuit of the knowledge of 
nonentity. When he was just on the point of attaining the ob- 
ject of his pursuit he was disturbed in his contemplations by the 



98 The Other Way. 

visits of a female Manggus. The Manggus, whose Sanskrit 
name is Rakshas, are ugly demons who can, however, adopt 
any figure they please. The Manggus who came to the king 
of the monkeys had assumed a beautiful figure and proposed to 
the king to marry her. The king at first alleged his monasti- 
cal duties, but at last he married the Manggus, and their de- 
scendants are the people of Thibet. This account, however, 
ridiculous it may appear to a western mind, is all-important to 
a nation which believes in the metempsychosis and is proud of 
its descent from a monkey, because he is one of the most cun- 
ning of animals. 

In Thibet proper I should say thtre are ten Lamas or priests 
to every six laymen, and so much power do these men possess 
that no layman's life would be safe did he not implicitly obey 
the dictates of his spiritual instructor. These priests are strictly 
enjoined by the rubrics of their faith to lead celibate lives, but 
a visit to any lamaserai or monastery will disclose the fact that 
each Lama has four or five wives — in reality slaves. These 
women, the priests will tell you, are the servants of the mon- 
astery, but, as a matter of fact, they never do any work, and are 
much better dressed, and exhibit considerable more jewelry 
than the ordinary Thibetan woman. ^Moreover, all the work 
is done by real slaves, for slavery is rampant in Thibet. If a 
poor man owes money his creditor can seize him as a slave 
until the money is paid. Even in the event of the money being 
tendered in payment, the creditor is not bound to accept it as a 
principal, but pockets it as interest on the principal, and still 
holds on to the slave. This custom is one most religiously 
guarded and observed by priests and laymen alike. The master 
has power to punish and even to put to death any slave who 
displeases him, and very often exercises it. But this is not all. 
The master supplies his slaves with wives, and any issue of these 
marriages belongs to the master, to do with as it may please 
him — keep or sell for slaves. 

A great deal has been written by travelers about the position 
occupied by woman in Thibet. Her position is not what it ap- 
pears to be to the traveler, except in the far east of Thibet, 



The Other Way. 99 

where polyandry- is quite common. Here she is certainly more 
than the equal of man. But in Southern and Western Thibet 
she is simply a slave. There is one astonishing thing about the 
Thibetan husband. He will never, by any chance, do any busi- 
ness without consulting his wife, and although he may ^reat 
ber in the most brutal manner, he will not conclude any bargain 
without her consent. Bright, cheery and hard-working, the 
Thibetan woman most certainly deserves to be treated well; 
but her lord looks upon her as an item of live stock, and does 
not treat her with nearly so much consideration as he would 
■one of his beasts of burden — yak or mule. To illustrate this. 
In August, 1892, I was staying at Darjeeling, a hill station in the 
north of Bengal, when I was ordered to proceed to Yatong, a 
small town at the northeast end of Yalap pass. After con- 
siderable difficulty I engaged carriers, mostly Thibetan women, 
and having procured provisions, I made a start on a Wednes- 
day morning and reached Kalimpong, a village twenty-seven 
miles distant from Darjeeling, that same night. The women 
had each of them carried a load of about sixty pounds weight, 
and their husbands had trotted behind, mounted on the small 
muJes of the country, but when a halt had been called, the tents 
pitched and the men had fed and watered their mules, they 
ordered their wives to prepare tea immediately. 

The tea having been prepared, with butter in it, it was 
served to the husbands, the wives waiting, and with eager eyes 
watching their lords and the teapots to see whether any tea 
would be left for their own enjoyment. Some of the men left 
-some tea for their wives, others again drained the teapots dry, 
but all of them, when they had finished their tea drinking, 
threw themselves at full length upon the ground, and their 
wives, with the skill of professional masseuses, knelt down and 
-proceeded to knead the limbs of their lords and masters to 
eliminate any soreness or fatigue which these dignified 
Thibetans may have possessed. 

This performance was at times varied by one of the men 
l<;nocking his wife down, she having kneaded a trifle too 
roughly for his liking. The wife would make no outcry but 



loo The Other Way, 

would get on her knees again and rub away at her husband's 
limbs until he pronounced himself satisfied. 

Then came the preparation of the evening meal. The wives 
had to fetch wood and water for some distance up the hillside, 
the men meanwhile lounging about the place, smoking and chat- 
ting. As soon as the meal was cooked the wives served it ta 
their husbands when, but not until the men ihad finished, and 
were literally gorged to satiety, the women quietly collected the 
remains of the meal and sat down' apart from their husbands to 
eat the little that was left for them. 

This kind of thing went on every day until we reached 
Gnatong, the extreme British outpost on the Thibetan frontier. 
At this place I met a Miss Taylor an American medical mis- 
sionary who was stationed at Yatong, and had only arrived at 
Gnatong the day prior to my arrival there. Having procured 
drugs, of which she was badly in need, from the British medi- 
al officer at that place, she decided to join my caravan on the 
following day and journey with me so far as Yatong. But, un- 
fortunately for both of us. Miss Taylor possessed a temper, 
and although at all times she was tender and sympathetic to her 
patients, yet, if any of them did do a little' pilfering, and the 
goods pilfered belonged to Miss Taylor, they always heard 
about it. And this was what happened the night previous to 
our departure: Miss Taylor had caught a Thibetan stealing 
some sugar from the tent and had cut him sharply across the 
hand with her riding whip. The man said nothing, but prompt- 
ly sent his wife to interview the lady missionary. Now, if there 
is one person in the world more than another who can use the 
most disgusting and filthy language, that person is a Thibetan 
woman. The innired man's wife arrived, and for a period of 
twenty minutes constant volleys of oaths and vituperation were 
poured out upon the devoted head of Miss Taylor. Her female 
ancestors were cursed from generation to generation, and at 
last Miss Taylor herself was introduced into the argument as 
a barley-faced, ugly, white devil, whose mother was the servant 
of sin, and who is so ugly that she has grown old without being 
able to find a husband for herself." Miss Taylor certainly was 



The Other Way. loi 

a lady of uncertain age^ and was not as comely as the majority of 
her countrywomen, and the Thibetan woman's remarks ap- 
peared to rouse t"he missionary's ire, for all at once she raised 
her riding whip, and swish, swish, the Thibetan lady had two 
beautiful marks across her cheeks. Her language then became 
s£) awful that 1 had to interfere and have the woman sent back 
to her husband's tent. On the following morning there was 
not a Thibetan in sight, nor was there any food left for us to eat. 
All our stores had disappeared with the Thibetans. My Ma- 
hommedan servant, AH Bux, had remained faithful, and when 
he found that his rice and his hookah had also disappeared he 
called his prophet to witness that the Thibetans were a race ol 
thieves, whose fathers were pigs and whose mothers were the 
daughters of burnt jackals. 

Of course Miss Taylor apologized very prettily for the 
trouble her little ebulition of temper had caused, and we had 
to make the J^est of a very bad job. We traveled for two whole 
days without food, and on the morning of the third day we were 
able to purchase enough tasmba, brick tea and dried meat to 
carry us to the end of our journey. 

On our arrival at Yatong there was a great festival in pro- 
gress there. Sheep, pigs and goats were being slaughtered in 
great numbers for the feast, and a more brutal mode of killing 
animals I have never seen. They were killing pigs in the fol- 
lowing manner: A Lama, with a long rosary and praying wheel 
in his left hand, would take a long, sharp-pointed stake in his 
right hand, and, mumbling an incantation, would drive the 
stake with great force into the pig just under the left shoulder. 
The wretched beast would then run for some distance with 
blood gushing from its nose and mouth, the bystanders, mean- 
while, making wagers on the distance the pig would be able 
to run before falling to the ground. Miss Taylor informed me 
that she was obliged to witness such scenes eight or ten times 
a year — in fact, whenever there was a feast or festival being 
celebrated. 

At this place I noticed seven bullock carts, each cart having 
on it a wooden cage about three feet square, in which was 



I02 The Other Way. 

huddled a most miserable looking man dressed in red rags and 
with chains on his hands and legs and neck. These men, I was 
informed, were criminals w^ho had committed some heinous of- 
fence at Yatong and had been sent to Lhassa for trial. They 
had been convicted and had been sent back to Yatong for exe- 
cution. The execution took place in the afternoon, each man 
being beheaded, and their bodies were at once thrown into the 
river. The heads, with long papers covered with Thibetan 
characters attached to them, were placed upon posts just out- 
side the gates of the town. 

Miss Taylor was certainly a very good Samaritan here, for 
she visited each cage and supplied its occupant with food and 
tea, and did all in her power to comfort and help the poor 
>vretches who wcie so soon to be dispatched to the land of 
spirits. 

At Yatong I left this self-sacrificing woman, and, having pro- 
cured guides and servants, made my way by easy stages to 
Cbetang, near the great Yamdok lake. I say easy stages ad- 
visedly, for both guides and servants had undoubtedly mastered 
the intricacies of the piano e sano mode of traveling. If they 
wanted tc go two miles a day, they went two miles a day — and 
no more. Nothing that I could say or do would induce them 
to go one-half mile further; but, withal, they were quite a 
jolly lot of men, always smiling, even when they had had no 
food for twelve hours — which means purgatory to a Thibetan, 

At Chetang I was politely informed that I must retrace my 
steps at once, and that the sooner I put a long distance be- 
tween the town and myself the better it would be for me. To 
eiforce his request, the Lama trotted out eight of the most 
villainoiis looking wretches I have ever set eyes upon. These 
men were Chinese^ and, as I was told, soldiers. They were 
accoutercd only witlh bows and arrows, but heavens, what a 
murderous looking set they were. These men were to be my 
escort as far as the Lhabrok river, and I, by no means, fancied 
bemg in such close proximity to these warriors for a month; 
so the first day on our return march, I proposed to the guides 
that as we were mounted, we could make a bolt for it, for the 



The Other Way. 103- 

soldiers could not possibly catch us up, as they were on foot. 
At first the guides demurred to my proposition, saying that if 
we were by any chance caught it would mean certain death to 
us. 

I had rather a shrewd idea that it meant death to us anyway, 
and I informed them that they had a certain amount of money, 
rugs and blanketr- of which the soldiers could make good use. 
This settled it and when we came to a small stream which we 
had to ford, we put spurs to our horses and placed a good 
thirty miles between ourselves and the soldiers before we laid 
down to rest at all. We never saw any more of our escort, 
and nine weeks later I had the pleasure eating a good, English 
dinner at that clubs of clubs, the Planters, Darjeeling. 



e^Wrinklese^ 
^^ 

When clothes have acquired an unpleasant odor by being kept 
in a close place charcoal laid in the folds will soon remove it. 

Powdered charcoal placed around roses and other flowers adds 
to their richness. 

Camphor gum placed on shelves or in drawers will effectually 
drive away mice. 

HOME-MADE CAMPHOR ICE. 

Melt half a teacupful of mutton tallow with a piece of cam- 
phor-gum the size of a large hickory-nut; pour into a little cup 
or mold. 



104 



The Other \\\:\ 




The Studio China Kiln, for Firii-g Decorated China 



§) Dainty Dishes (§ 

PRESSED VEAL OR CHICKEN. 

Put four pounds of veal, or two chickens into a pot; cover 
with water, stew slowly until the meat drops from, the bone, 
take out and chop it; let the liquor boil down until there is a 
cupful; put in a small cup of butter, a tablespoonful of pepper, 
a little allspice and a beaten egg; stir this through the meat; 
slice a hard-boiled egg; lay in your mold, and press in the meat, 
when sent to table garnis'h with celery tops or parsley. 

SWEETBREADS WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Parboil sweetbreads, allowing eight medium-sized ones to a 
can of mushrooms; cut the sweetbreads about half an inch 
square, stew until tender; slice mushrooms and 
stew in the liquor for one hour, then add to the sweet- 
breads a coiTee cupful of cream, pepper and salt, and a table- 
spoonful of butter. Sweetbreads boiled and served with green 
peas make a very nice dish. 

VEAL CROQUETTES. 

Mince veal fine, mix one-half cup of milk with one teaspoon- 
ful of flour and a piece of butter the size of an egg; cook until 
ii thickens; stir into the meat; roll into balls; dip in egg, with 
a little milk stirred in, roll in brown bread crumbs; set in a cold 
place for two or three hours and fry in hot cottolene. 

CROQUETTES. 

Cut cold veal, chicken or sweetbreads, a little of each, or sep- 
arately, very fine, add a little fat and lean ham, half the quan- 
tity of the whole of bread crumbs, two eggs, butter the size of 
105 



io6 The Other Way. 

an t^%, pepper, salt and a little mustard. Knead like sausage 
meat, adding a little cream; form in any shape, dip in o-zz, and 
then roll in cracker c.rumbs; set in a cold place for several 
hours; fry in lard until a light brown. Dry them in the oven. 
Celery or mushrooms are an improvement. 

RAGOUT A LA CHATEAUBRIAND. 

Cut three pounds of veal from the neck or breast into small 
pieces, and fry in butter or dripping to a light brown; remove 
from the pan, and to the butter add a tablespoonful of flour; 
coc-k a few minutes, then add two cups of warm water, one 
onion, a spiig each of thyme and parsley, a carrot sliced, salt 
and pepper, then the meat, and cover; when done, place the meat 
on the dish, strain with gravy around it, and garnish with small 
cnions fried. 

RAGOUT A LA MOLIERE. 

Cut pieces of mutton, veal, beef, or rabbit into any size and 
5hape desired; heat a tablespoonful of drippings or cottolene in 
a saucepr.n, and when hot fry the meat until almost done. Take 
out the meat and add a tablespoonful of browned flour, wet up 
with Ir.kewarm v ater, mix well and stir into a quart of boiling 
water, season with salt and cayenne pepper, add the meat, three 
cr four onions, and six or seven potatoes — partially boiled be- 
fore they are put into the ragout; cover closely and stew untiJ 
the vegetables are done. Take out the meat and vegetables and 
skim ofi" all the fat from the gravy, season more, if necessary, 
pour over the ragout anO serve. 



SWEETBREADS. 

Put two large parboiled sweetbreads into a stew-pan with one 
and one-half gills of water, season with salt, black and cayenne 
pepper and set over a slow fire. Mix one large tablespoonful of 
browned flour with a piece of butter, stir butter and gravy well 



The Other Way. 107 

together. After stewing slowly for half an hour set the pan in 
the oven of the gas stove, and when nicely browned place in a 
dish, pour the gravy into one-half pint stewed tomatoes, thicken 
with one dessertspoonful of flour, butter, salt, and pepper, strain 
thr« ugh a sieve into a stew-pan, let it come to a boil, stir until 
done, pour over the sweetbreads and send to the table hot. 



TO BROIL SWEETBREADS. 

Soak an hour in salt and water; drain, parboil, then rub well 
\\\ butter and broil; turn often, and each time they are turned 
rcll them in a plate of hot melted butter, so that they will not 
become hard and diy. 



SWEETBREADS FRIED. 

Wash in salt and water, parboil, cut into pieces the size of large 
oyster, season, dip in rolled cracker crumbs and fry to a light 
brown in lard or butter. 

SWEETBREADS STEWED. 

Wash, remove all the bits of skin, soak in salt and water one 
hour, then parboil; when half cooked, take from he fire, cut into 
small pieces, stew in a little water until tender, add a piece of 
butter, a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of flour, and boil up 
once. Serve hot on toast. Another way is to prepare as above 
and serve with tomato sauce. 



SWEETBREAD FRITTERS. 

Parboil the sv/eetbreads; cut into small pieces, and season with 
salt, pepper and parsley; dip into batter and fry in hot lard. 



loS The Other Way. 

WELSH RARE-BIT. 

One-quarter pound cream cheese, quarter cup of cream or milk, 
one teaspoonfi.l of mustard, half-teaspoonful of salt, a few grains 
of cayenne pepper, one egg, one teaspoonful of butter, four 
slices of toast. This quantity will require to be doubled for a 
large family. Break the cheese in small piieces, or, if hard, 
grate it. Put it with the milk in a double boiler. Toast the 
bread and keep it hot. Mix the mustard, salt, and pepper, add 
the egg, and beat well. When the cheese is melted, stir in the 
eggs and cook two minutes, or until it thickens a little, buit do 
not let it curdle. Pour it over th>e toast. 



CROQUETTES OF CALF'S BRAINS. 

Lay the brains in salt water for an hour or until they look per- 
fectly white. Boil in salted water until tender. Boil also a 
sweetbread. When cold, mince fine together. Stir into a white 
sauce and boil up well. When cool enougfh, shape, crumb and 
fry. The sweetbreads can be omitted. 



BEEF CROQUETTES. 

Use cold meat of any kind. Chop or grind fine, and add to 
the brown sauce tor croquettes, one pint of meat to one cupful 
of sauce. Boil together well, cool and mould. Crumb and fry. 
This is an especially nice way to use up cold soup meat. 



FISH CROQUETTES. 

Use any kind of cold boiled fish. Free it from skin and bone. 
Mince fine. To one pint of minced fish use one cup of well- 
seasoned mashed potatoes, two eggs well beaten. Mix well, 
season to ta3te, shape, crumb and fry. One cupful of white 
sauce can be tised in place of masihed potatoes. 



The Other M^ay. 109 

CUSTARD FRITTERS. 

Half-pint of milk, five eggs, half-cupful of sugar, one gill of 
cream, common batter. Beat milk, cream, sugar and eggs to- 
gether, strain, put into small bowl, set in sauce pan, with boil- 
ing water, to reach half-way up the sides of the bowl ; steam very 
gently until set, about twenty minutes. Place on ice until cold, 
cut into pieces about O'ue and a half inches long by one inch 
square, dip into common batter and fry in plenty of hot lard, 
a deep fawn color. Serve sprinkled with powdered sugar. 

CLAM FRITTERS. 

Twenty-five clams, dried well with a clean towel, one pint 
flour, one even teaspoon baking powder, two well-beaten eggs, 
half-pint milk, and about the same of the clam liquor. Beat 
until smooth and stir in the clams. It is better to chop the 
clams before putting them in the batter. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

Six ears of corn,. three eggs, one teaspoon baking powder, half 
teaspoon salt, one cup flour, half-cup milk. Grate the corn, beat 
the eggs very light, then add the flour, with salt and powder 
s.ifted with ;t, then the milk, and lastly the grated corn. Have 
the frying pan very hot and put a little lard in it and when that 
is hot drop the batter in with a spoon and bake a light brown. 
Serve hot. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Make a batter with one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful 
sugar, two eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, two 
cupr. flour, one teaspoon baking powder, mixed with the flour. 
Chop a half dozen good tart apples, mix in the batter, and fry 
in hot lard. 



no The Other Way. 

RICE FRITTERS. 

One cup rice, one pint milk, three eggs, )ne tablespoon butterr 
two tablespoons sugar. Boil rice in milk until soft, and all the 
milk is absorbed; then remove from the fire and add yolks of 
eggs, fugar and butter; when cold add whites whipped to dry 
ffoth; drop in a spoonful at a time in plenty of lard made hot 
for that purpose, fry them light brown. Serve with cream, wine 
or lemon sauce. 

BLACKBERRY FRITTERS. 

One cupful blackberries, one cup and a half common batter; 
mix berries in batter, and drop by tablespoonfuls in plenty of 
hoc lar J. Serve with sauce. All berry fritters can be made as 
directed for the above. 




^A Plot That Failed^ 



NE of the strangest criminal plots on record is the 
*' "Patlala" case, which occurred in India a few years ago. 
It will be seen how fatally it ended for the plotters and 
their victims. 

In December 1891, the Maharajah of Patiala, one of India's 
wealthiest princes, was attending the great race meeting of the 
year in Calcutta. His partner in racing matters was at that 
time Lord William Beresford, who was Military Secretary to 
the Viceroy, and who has since married an American lady — 
the dowager duchess of Marlborough. "Ulundi Bill," as Lord 
William was called by the troops, was a magnificent jockey 
himself, but being unable to ride at the weight required, he 
was forced to secure the services of a professional jockey to 
ride a horse in the race for the Viceroy's Cup, a trophy the 
Maharajah was very desirous of winning. 

His choice fell upon one, Arthur Taylor^ an Australian jockey 
of some note, who, after a hotly contested race, had the good 
fortune to pilot his horse to victory. So pleased was the 
Maharajah with the jockey's services that he made him a mag- 
nificent present and at the same time offered him the post of 
superintendent of the princely stables of Patiala. Taylor ac- 
cepted the appointment, and shortly after the race meeting had 
closed he proceeded to Patiala where he was duly installed as 
"master of the horse." 

A few months later Taylor was joined by a woman whom 
he introduced to the few European residents of Patiala as his 
sister. She was an extremely beautiful woman, a pure blonde 
with a wealth of golden hair and a Juno-like figure — a woman 
in every way likely to excite and inflame the passions of such 
an Oriental as Suddanath Singh, Maharajah of Patiala. 

Soon after her arrival, the native and European residents of 
Patiala began to comment on the numerous visits which the 



112 The Other Way. 

Maharajah paid to his stable superintenden't's bungalow, and 
the British resident of the Court of Patiala, Colonel Greer felt 
it his duty to remonstrate with Taylor, and seriously advised 
him not to encourage the Prince's visits. Meanwhile, the na- 
tive press, especially the "Amritsar Bazaar Patrika," a native 
organ always on the qui vive to obtain any news of a scandal in 
which Europeans were involved, began to publish articles in 
which they insinuated that Miss Taylor was the mistress of the 
Maharajah, and that she should feel highly honored at being 
chosen by a Sikh prince of such long and unblemished lineage 
to be his concubine. 

This kind of thing continued until August, 1892, when the 
European and native press published the news that Suddanath 
Singh, Maharajah of Patiala was engaged to be married to 
Florence Taylor, sister of the erstwhile jockey. 

The native press were intensely bitter upon the subject, and 
published article after article of seditious character calculated 
to inflame the minds of the natives against their English con- 
querors. The "Amritsar Bazaar Patrika," prophesied that the 
house of Patiala would fall in the event of its prince entering the 
holy bonds of matrimony with an accursed feringhi, and was 
so far from being complimentary to Miss Taylor as to call her 
"the spawn of Nichada, the slayer of the sacred ox." 

The legend runs that Mahadeo, the great-god, was wandering 
through the forest, when he met a young girl of surpassing 
beauty, whom he married. Several children were the result of 
this union, among them being a son who was called Nichada. 
This son was remarkable for his great strength, his coal black 
skin, his terrible ugliness and satyr-like bestiality. This 
Nichada in a fit of passion one day killed Nandi, the sacred ox 
of the god Mahadeo. As a punishment for his crime he was 
held accursed, banished to the forests and received the name of 
Nichada — i. e., unclean, parish and outcast. The Bheels, a 
wild tribe in India, claim to be direct descendants of Nichada. 
Could any insult have been more terrible to native ideas, than 
to be called, as the native press called Miss Taylor, "the spawn 
of Nichada?" 



The Other Way, 113 

The Indian government applied to Colonel Greer^ the resi- 
dent at the Court of Patiala, for the facts of the case, and 
meanwhile prohibited the issue of the "Amritsar Bazaar 
Patrika." Lord Lansdowne, the Viceroy of India, brought 
great pressure to bear upon the Maharajah in the hope that he 
would abandon his matrimonial project. But the viceroy's ef- 
forts in this direction were in vain, notwithstanding the fact 
that he had the very strong support of all the souneshies, or 
priests of the Sikh caste, who warned the Maharajah that his 
alliance with a feringhi would be productive of evil, and on the 
14th of September, 1892, Suddanath Singh^ the lion of Patiala, 
was legally married at the British residence to the woman who 
deiscribed herself as Florence Taylor, spinster, of Melbourne, 
Australia. 

At the time of his marriage to Miss Taylor, his Highness had 
no legal wife living, although his harem contained about fifty 
women of the Sikh caste. Some of these women had borne him 
children, but none of these infants could inherit his throne, as 
they were not born of a reigning maharanee, and although the 
prince had been married three times and had made pilgrimages 
and endowed temples in the hope that his devotions would 
propitiate his various deities, and induce them to grant him 
an heir male to reign after him, all of his three wives had died 
childless. 

This state of affairs had led to endless intrigue at his court, for 
in the event of his death there would be many claimants for his 
throne, and everybody having a knowledge of the intrigue com- 
mon to oriental courts will know how long a team of assassina- 
tions and sudden deaths follow in its wake. 

The Maharajah had been married for a year or so, and with 
Oriental fickleness had begun to tire of his English wife, and 
took himself off on a long hunting tour, being absent about 
eight months. 

During his absence, some of the nobles of the Court induced 
the Maharanee, who no doubt felt greatly incensed against her 
dusky spouse for his speedy desertion of her, to enter into a 



114 The Other Way. 

conspiracy with them to foist a spurious heir upon the 
Marahajah. 

Arthur Taylor^ whose sister the Maharanee was supposed to 
be, is said to have been one of the prime movers in the plot; 
be this as it may, certain it is that he knew of the designs against 
l.'i.^ employer, and more than certain that the woman, Florence 
T?ylor, was not his sister, but his paramour. Arrangements 
were made by the parties to the plot to obtain possession of an 
infj^nt born of a native woman by a European father, shortly 
before the Maharajah's return. The plot succeeded so well that 
on her husband's return he was presented with a whitey-brown 
infant boy who was, according to the Maharanee, his own son 
and beir. The Prince's joy knew no bounds, and Patiala was 
the scene of a succession of fetes and festivities the equal of 
which had never been witnessed in the state. 

If the Maharajah had only reasoned with himself a little^ he 
would have found that his festivities, etc., were rather out of 
place. Given that the child was his own son, born in wedlock, 
the Indian Government in the first place, and the fanatical 
sounchies or priests of the Sikh caste in the second place, 
would 'never have allowed a half-breed or Eurasian to ascend 
the princely throne of Patiala. A sikh, and a Sikh only, could 
ever rule that turbulent, warlike race, and as it is necessary to 
be born a Sikh, — for by no earthly means can one be received 
int( that caste if born of parents of another religion — it will 
easily be seen how futile ultimately would be the efforts of the 
conspirators. Doubtless this view of the matter did not present 
itself to the Prince or to the plotters. 

The Maharanee was now in high favor with her husband, and 
the conspirators began to make demands upon her purse which 
she was v.'t.ll able to satisfy so long as they kept within bounds. 
Matters went on fairly smoothly until January, 1896. In that 
month, ',ne of tbe plotters, the Thakour Durga Singh, a noble 
of Patiala, took unto himself the daughter of a neighboring 
chieftain to wife and, as is the common custom among Orientals, 
he expectea a very rich present from tbe Maharajah and his 
Ranee. 



The Other Way. 115 

The present which they sent him evidently did not come up 
to his expectations for soon after his marriage he demanded 
an interview c'bout the matter with the Maharanee, and she 
■complied with his demand. 

The interview took place in an avenue in the grounds of the 
palace, and after much mutual recrimination, Durga Singh de- 
manded a very large sum of money from the Maharanee under 
pain cf exposure of the whole plot to which they had both 
been privy. At this demand the lady lost her temper, and al- 
though not speaking Hindustani v^rell, she had learned enough 
of the language to be able to abuse Durga Singh soundlv. 
Such vituperation and insult did she heap upon him that he 
left her presence utterly cowed and unnerved. 

This interview was the cause of the undoing of all the parties 
to the plot. Behind one of the large trees on the avenue a 
yogi, or native priest, had been sitting. He had heard all that 
Tiad passed at the interview. Priest-like, he determined to take 
a hand in the game himself, and he lost no time in proceeding 
to a neighboring temple and convening an audience of Sikh 
priests to whom he unfolded his tale. After some deliberation 
the high priest decided to go to the Prince and acquaint him 
with the yogi's ^tury. 

At first the Maharajah refused to credit a word of the yogi's 
story^ for he was kept pretty well informed, as a rule, of all the 
intrigue which went on in his court, he, like all other native 
Princes, having a very efificient system ol espionage in force 
in his palace. But the yogi was very insistent, and he was also, 
to the Maharajah's thinking, a very holy man, and the Prince 
agreed at last to enquire int d the matter. 

He at first sent for the Thakour Durga Singh. On his arrival 
at the palace, the noble was ushered into a room in which sat 
the Maharajah, his Ranee and the yogi. Neither the 
Maharanee nor Durga Singh had seen the yogi on the day of 
their interview^ and were completely in the dark as to the 
object of his presence in the room; but as soon as the Prince 
Ijpgan to question Durga Singh, the two schemers must have 
felt that the game 'vas up. 



ii6 The Other Way. 

Durga Singh denied everything that the yogi stated had 
taken place. His mere denial did not satisfy the Maharajah, 
and as the Lions of Patiala have never been famous for mercy 
or compassion, the Prince no doubt ordered him to undergo 
torture in order to extract the truth from him. At any rate, 
the Maharaiah became cognizant of the plot in all its details,, 
and fo; the next few days there was quite an epidemic of snake 
bites, cholera and sunstroke among the nobles of the Court of 
Patiala, Durga Singh being one of the first victims. 

On the c^nd February, 1896, the press of Calcutta and Bombay 
published the information that Florence, Maharanee of Patiala,. 
was seriously ill of malarial fever, and that an Engish military 
surgeon was on hi? way from Calcutta to attend her. 

Before the doctor arrived at Patiala the Maharanee expired,, 
and as is the custom of the Sikhs, was burned on a pyre of san- 
dalwood. There was no opportunity for a post mortem exam- 
ination of the body, and it will never be known if the disease 
ohe was said to be suffering from was the true cause of her 
death. The chances are that she was poisoned by her hus- 
band's concrbines. 

Her pseudo brother, Arthur Taylor the jockey, was said to 
have committed suicide while he was intoxicated by throwing 
himself from the roof of his bungalow. At any rate, his body 
was found, with his neck broken, on the ground near the steps 
of his bungalow on the very morning of the day that the re- 
mains of his paramour were given to the flames. 

The Indian Government has now given the native princes to 
understand that they will never be allowed to contract any 
matrimonial alliances with a European lady, as her life would 
be in constant jeopardy. The caste system which prevails in 
India is not conducive to the mixing of the two races^ and na- 
tive nobles who had marriageable daughters would not only 
scheme and intrigue to bring about the white woman's death, 
but would, in the end, lose all respect for their English con- 
querors who permitted such a state of affairs to exist. 



Spanish Dishes %h ^ ^ 



TAMALES. 

Five pounds Indian meal, one-half pint hot water, one pint 
olive oil, or melted lard, salt to taste. Mix and heat with the 
hands until very light. Have ready some dry and clean husk. 
On each husk put a large tablespoon of the mixture with an- 
other husk, tie up the ends with two strips of husk, and steam 
for two hours. 

TAMALE STUFFING. 

To four pounds of chicken, pork or beef, cooked and chopped, 
add one quart of chile sauce, and a little chopped onion and 
garlic. Boil for ten minutes. One pint of stoned olives, and 
one pound of seeded raisins may be added if desired, but they 
are not absoultely necessary. 

ENCHILADAS. 

Take freshly made tortillas, dip into boiling olive oil, or lard, 
then into chile sauce. Sprinkle with grated cheese mixed with 
finely mixed cocked meat, or hard boiled eggs. Roll and 
sprinkle on more cheese, or arrange in layers of three or four. 
After preparing, set them in the oven for two or three minutes, 
so as to serve as hot as possible. Garnish with lettuce, rad- 
ishes, and small green cnions. 

CHILE SAUCE. 

Get your dry chile peppers from some reliable place doing a 
good business, so as tc be sure they are grown the year you get 
them. Break them open and let them stand in a little warm 
water, until thoroughly softened, remove the seeds and veins, 
and pass the pulp through a coarse sieve; add a little grated cin- 
namon, the water in which the peppers stood, and the same 
117 



ii8 The Other Way. 

quantity of soup stock. Bring the whole to a boil and remove 
at once. The sauce will be a great deal better if the peppers are 
first toasted, but great care must be taken not to burn them. 



TORTILLAS. 

Corn meal, water, salt to taste. The meal should be made 
from ripe corn, which has been boiled in lye made from wood 
ashes, or a little lime, until the skins are loosened. It is then 
ground in a mortar or on a metate, a flat sLone raised at one 
end, the grinding being done with a stone rolling pin. A very 
good substitute, however, is Indian meal. ]\Iix the meal with 
hot water to a stiff paste, add, a little salt, pat the paste into fiat 
cakes, and bake on a griddle. Tortillas are seldom eaten alome 
being the basis for many of the other Spanish dishes, but they 
are very nice eaten in place of our hot cakes, with butter, honey, 
maple syrup, etc. 

FRIJOLES. 

Bcil brown beans until thoroughly done, usually about five 
hours, then mash thoroughly with a potato masher. Stir a little 
chopped onion and two or three pepper pods into some boiling 
olive oil, or lard. Strain off the oil, or lard, and put it into a 
frying pan. When boiilng, pour in the mashed beans, and fry 
until the oil is entirely absorbed by the beans, and they are 
(juite dry. Serve on tortillas. 

CHILES CON GUISO. 

Brown some green peppers on top of the stove, or on a hot 
pan. Peel them, and take out the seeds and veins, unless you 
prefer them very hot. Stuft with cooked meat, either pork or 
beef, chopped fine, with a little onion, powdered clove, and salt 
to taste. Boil in a batter of ^^% and liour, or cracker crumbs, 
and fry in boiling olive oil, or lard. Serve with tomato sauce 
or brown flour sauce. 



.^Famine Facts^ 



^ 



ti T luay be interesting to Americans to become acquainted 
with the manner in which the generous gifts of food and 
grain which were sent from the United States to the starv- 
ing natives of India during the last famine in that country- 
were distributed. The men who had the handling of the grain 
for distribution were the native magistrates and deputy magis- 
trates of the subordinate Indian Civil Service. It is hardly 
necessary to say that the deserving poor received very little if 
any of the bountiful supply of food which reached India from 
all parts of the world, without paying for it in some manner, 
sooner or later. 

In the first place, the native magistrates and the subordinate 
native ofificials are always of high caste, either Brahmins or 
Kachetrias, and the starving poor are certainly of the lowest 
castes. Among the victims of the famine were found, no doubt, 
a considerable number of Mahommedans, who, from long as- 
sociation with their Hindoo brethren, have become as much 
imbued with the caste system as the Hindoos themselves. 

The native dispensers of justice, by virtue of their position 
stand at the head of the community of the district to which they 
are posted, and are the recipients of the most idolatrous adula- 
tions of the low caste people. These magistrates, being of high 
caste, naturally never make any friendships among the low 
caste people, but invariably have a number of high caste rela- 
tions, dependents and hangers-on living about them, and, 
mirabile dictu, the village "Kyah," or money lender^ is gener- 
ally very much in evidence on the verandah of the "Dipty 
Sahib's" (as the natives call the deputy magistrates) bungalow 
and in the precincts of the "Kutcherri," or district courthouse. 

Now, the "Kyah" is also the principal grain merchant of the 
Indian village, besides being the "avuncular relative" of the 
numerous poor husbandmen employed by the local zemindars 
iig 



I20 The Other Way. 

or farmers. These men, like their fathers before them, are never 
out of the "Kyah's" debt, and for every rupee they can induce 
him to lend them, it is safe to say that they will eventually pay 
back fifty. It is no uncommon thing to find that a native ryot, 
or cultivator, having borrowed, say, one hundred rupees for 
his marriage feast, has by the time of his death paid the Kyah 
some three or four thousand rupees, besides leaving a large 
legacy of debt to his widow and sons, who in turn have to slave 
all their lives to satisfy the insatiable greed of the Kyah. In 
fact, the Kyah is a human vampire, taking advantage of the 
poverty and ignorance of the ryot or cultivator class, keeping 
them poor and needy all their lives, and a burden to the govern- 
ment of their country. 

The Kyah, therefore, as the wealthiest and most influential 
member of the village community, comes more in personal con- 
tact with the native magistrate than any other inhabitant of the 
place^ and there can be no doubt that he is consulted by the 
magistrate on all the affairs of village government, and when 
consignments of grain are forwarded to the native magistrate 
for distribution to the wretched victims of the famine, the Kyah 
will certainly be consulted as to its distribution, at this con- 
sultation, the high-caste relatives and dependents of the 
"Dipty Sahib" will also have a hearing, and they will 
bring to the notice of the magistrate the names of 
men of their own caste, who are poor, but not really 
in want, to whom it is a duty, religious and social, to send a 
few maunds of wheat or rice. This proposition will be acceded 
to by the "Dipty Sahib," who, as a high-caste man and a Brah- 
min, dares not ofifend the high-caste men of his district. This 
is the thin end of the wedge. The Kyah then will suggest that 
the magistrate shall have all the applicants for relief brought to 
the "Dipty's" bungalow or the Kutcherri. Now the fat, 
oleaginous "Dipty Sahib," who is invariably a Bengali babu, 
loves nothing better (save gold mohurs) than the dolce far 
niente; and the suggestion of the Kyah conjures up in his mind 
horrible visions of a horde of "cho ta jat," or low caste pariahs 
invading the sacred privacy of his bungalow, defiling the steps 



The Other Way. 121 

of his dwelling, and doing away with his five or six hours ol 
luxurious lounging on his verandah among innumerable 
cushions, placidly watching the blue wreaths of smoke from his 
fragrant hubble-bubble, or hookah, curling and floating away 
to ward the brilliant noonday sky. The "Dipty Sahib" views 
with horror this impending calamity, and very promptly gives 
orders to have the chief clerk of his Kutcherri brought into his 
presence. 

With a lordly air, and much unnecessary gesticulation he ad- 
monishes the clerk that the grain will only be distributed to the 
poor creatures who hold orders for the small portions to be 
doled out to them, the said orders to have the signature of his 
lordship, the "Dipty Sahib," upon their face. Here is the 
Kyah's opportunity, of which he is not slow to take advantage. 
He promptly makes a visit to the chief clerk's dwelling, and 
with many expresisions of good will and friendship, he proceeds 
to squat upon the verandah. After a minute or so of mutual 
salaaming, the Kyah suggests to his "bhai," or brother, the chief 
clerk, that a few whiffs from the fragrant hookah would not be 
out 01 place on such a warm day. The clerk acquiesces in this 
proposition and summons his servant to prepare a hookah, and 
perchance bring some "parn," or betel-nut with which to regale 
his visitor. 

With Oriental subtletly, the Kyah does not go straight to the 
subject of his visit but begins to talk about the weather and 
other kindred subjects until at last, seeing upon the countenance 
of his host a look of extreme expectation, he begins to expatiate 
to his "bhai," ot brother, (this word "bhai" being simply an ex- 
pression of great friendship) on the numerous shortcomings of 
one Bhugwan Dass, who is a small holder of land, and is not 
in the Kyah's debt, but who is really starving with his family 
in his small bamboo hut, a few rods from the Kyah's dwelling, 
and whose land the Kyah would willingly acquire for himself. 

Up to date Bhugwan Dass has resolutely refused to accept 
financial aid from the Kyah, knowing full well that if he gets 
into the vampires clutches it can only be a matter of a very short 
time when the land which he owns will become the property of 



122 The Other Vvay. 

the Kyah. He, Bhugwan Dass, has preferred to subsist on 
roots, the pith of the bannana tree and wild berries^ sooner than 
become the Kyah's debtor, and this is a very sore thorn in the 
side of the money-lender, who, for the purpose of future profit, 
or may be for the sake of making his zemindari, or estate of 
agricultural land, of a symmetrical form, earnestly desires to be- 
come the proprietor of Bhugwan Dass' land. 

The Kyah now remarks to the clerk that Bhugwan Dass must 
have money buried in his hut; how else, says he, could he sub- 
sist in these days of short crops and famine? And if he really 
has money buried, what a wretch is he not to dig it up and give 
relief to his starving wife and children? Surely no grain should 
be given to such a man as that. And how many others, says 
the Kyah, are like unto Bhugwan Dass? 

The clerk then has his say upon the matter, his remaks being 
simply a reiteration of those of the Kyah. The clerk then in- 
cidentally remarks that Bhugwan Dass (who is a low-caste 
man) had a jackal for a mother, a pig for a father, and is with- 
out caste, beauty, or honor. 

Having propitiated his brother the Kyah in respect to Bhug- 
wan Dass, the clerk continues his conversation and says that 
he knows many others who are like unto Bhugwan Dass, and 
that he does not think grain should be distributed indiscrimi- 
nately to such men as he has named. "Would it not be better," 
says he, "to draw up a list of deserving poor and submit the 
orders for the grain for them to his honor the "Dipty Sahib?" 
And, of course, who could know better who really are the 
deserving poor than his brother, the Kyah, and himself? 

The Kyah, with salaams to the clerk for the conception of a 
very worthy project, surmises that the poor people would not 
like his brother and himself to take all this trouble for them 
without some slight remuneration, and suggests that they inti- 
mate to the deserving poor that they can obtain orders for grain 
by calling upon the money lender or the clerk. The poor» 
credulous creatures, suffering the pangs of starvation in all their 
horrible forms, are only too glad to avail themselves of this 
opportunity and pay the requisite visits. Once arrived at the 



The Other W^ay. 123 

house of the Kyah or clerk, they are inveigled into putting their 
crude signatures to a piece of paper, perhaps mortgaging their 
small holdings to the money-lender, perhaps giving a note of 
hand to the clerk, both deeds carrying enormous interest, to be 
paid when better times arrive. 

Ignorant of all forms of law, absolutely reckless of future 
consequences if they can only relieve their present distress, these 
poor, hard-working, home-loving people, have perhaps assigned 
away their birthright, and most certainly have laid up for them- 
selves a store of future misery which no court of law in the 
country can relieve them of. 

The "Dipty Sahib" has a large number of papers put before 
him daily for signature, and rarely glances at the unimportant 
documents which are placed before him for that purpose; so 
that when the orders for grain are placed before him, he is only 
too glad to get through with the business of signing them, and 
makes no inquiries as to whom the orders are in favor of. 

When the grain is all distributed the magistrate draws up a 
long report 10 the Lieutenant-Governor of the province, stating 
that he has distributed the grain to the most deserving cases 
of distress, and that the people of his district are in a slightly 
better condition than before the arrival of the grain. Thus ends 
the horrible farce of the distribution of food stufifs to the starv- 
ing natives of India. 

There are far too few European administrative officers in the 
different provinces oi India, and it would be impossible for them 
to leave their posts to superintend the distribution of grain in 
the afflicted districts; consequently the Government of India is 
obliged to delegate this duty to the subordinate officers of the 
judicial department, with what result is shoAvn in the foregoing. 



-^S 



Bread Baking by Gas 



Bread in tlie oven of a gas range will bake brown evenly, top 
and bottom, the <• .ives will be twenty-five per cent larger than 
'■f baked in a coal range, and will always be found light, porous 
and wholesome. 

BREAD BAKING. 

Heat oven ten minutes. After putting bread in, turn gas down 
low, in most instances one burner being sufficient. Ordinary 
baking time, one hour. 

BISCUITS. 

Allow oven to get very hot before putting biscuits in, then 
turn down gas a trifle. Biscuits should bake in from 12 to 15 
minutes. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups Indic-n meal, two cups graham meal, one cup flour, 
one cup molasses, one teaspoon soda, a little salt. Pour hot 
water over the meaJ to scald it, then add the molasses, then the 
flour with the salt and soda sifted in it. Steam four hours and 
a half. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Three cups of corn meal, one cup flour, three cups of sweet 
milk, one cup sour milk, half cup molasses, one teaspoon of 
soda, one teaspoon of salt. Steam three hours. 
124 



The Other Way. 125 

BUTTER BISCUIT. 

One quart of flour, half cup lard, three teaspoons baking pow- 
der. Mix quite soft, bake on griddle slowly, say about fifteen 
minutes; do not grease the griddle. 

WAFER BISCUITS. 

Rub a teaspoonful of butter into a pint of sifted flour, add a 
little salt, and with the white of an egg, and a little warm milk, 
mix into a smooth, stiff paste. Beat with a rolling pin for a 
half hour, the longer the better; form into little, round balls 
(size of a pigeon egg), and roll very thin. Sprinkle on the pans 
a little flour, and bake with care in a hot oven. These may be 
made with oat meal or different grains. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUITS. 

One quart flour, two tablespoons baking powder, two heap- 
ing teaspoonfuls of lard, half a teaspoonful of salt, about one 
pint of milk, or enough to make a soft dough. Mix the lard 
well through the flour, into which has been sifted the baking 
powder and salt; then add the milk, and have the dough just as 
soft as you can handle it, flour the pastry board, and roll about 
a half-inch thick, cut with a round tin, and bake in a hot oven. 

BREAKFAST MUFFINS. 

Two cups flour, one egg, one cup milk, two even teaspoons 
baking powder, one tablespoonful sugar, one tablespoon but- 
ter. Put the butter in the oven until it melts, then add to the 
flour, with the milk and sugar; sift the baking powder with the 
flour. After it is all well mixed beat for ten minutes, then put 
in gem tins and bake in a hot oven. In a gas range, it should 
not take them over ten minutes to bake. 



126 The Other Way. 

PERFECT ROLLS. 

One quart flour, half teaspoonful salt, two teaspoons baking- 
powder, one tablespoonful lard, three-quarters pint milk, or 
water. Sift together, flour, salt, and powder, rub in the lard^ 
add the milk, and mix into a smooth dough, so as to be easily- 
handled without sticking. Flour the board, turn out the dough 
and give it a quick knead or two to equalize it; then roll it out 
with a rolling pin to the thickness of half an inch; cut it out 
with a large, round cutter, fold one-half over on tihe other by- 
doubling it; grease where it folds over; lay them on a greased 
baking sheet v/itho'it touching; wash them over with a little milk 
to glaze them. Heat the oven for ten minutes before putting 
the rolls in, and leave the heat on nearly full. 

SALT-RISING BREAD. 

I. Take newly-ground middlings; put six heaping teaspoon- 
fuls of it into a coffee-cup; add one teaspoonful of sugar, one 
saltspoonful of salt, one-half saltspoonful of soda; mix thor- 
oughly, pour boiling water into the mixture, stirring it well to- 
gether until it will nearly All the cup; remove the spoon; cover 
the cup of dough; set where it will keep warm, not scald; set it 
Friday morning, and it will be light for Saturday's baking; if in 
a hurry, set in a dish of warm water. Now put into the bread- 
pan flour enough for bread; add salt; take one quart of boiling 
water for three loaves, and turn into the middle of your flour, 
stirring it slovvjy: put enough cold water or milk until you can 
bear your finger in it; then add middlings; stir in well; cover 
with some of the flour, and set in a warm place. When light 
enough mix soft into loaves, grease bread-pans, also the top of 
the loaves, which makes a tender upper crust; cut gashes quite 
deep across, and they will rise evenly; set on the gas stove, with 
very low flame and when light enough bake three-quarters of 
an hour. 2. In the morning take a quart dish and scald it out; 
put in a pint of warm water and a teaspoonful of salt; stir flour 
enough in to make a thick batter; set the dish in a kettle of 



The Other Way. 127 

■warm vvater, and where it will keep of the same temperature, a 
l.'ttle more than blood-warm. If the flour is good it will be at 
the top of the dish in two hours; then put flour enough into a 
pan to make three loaves of bread; make a hole in the middle; 
put in the yeast, and a quart of warm water; stir it p thick with 
■a spoon, cover it up with flour, and set it to rise. When light 
mold into loa^es. and set it in a warm place to rise again. 
When light enough, bake three-quarters of an hour. 

ROLLS. 

'Mix one quart of flour quite soft with warm milk and one-half 
cup of yeast; mix in the morning and set to rise until noon; 
then break into it two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, one 
tablespoonfuil of butter, and a teaspoonful of salt; mix up well 
together with hands, and set to rise again until about an hour 
before tea. Then knead a little, and cutting oflf a piece about 
the size of a common biscuit, roll out to the size of a 
saucer, spread thinly with butter and turn over. 
After they are molded let them stand until lig'ht enough, and 
bake in a very quick oven, with full flame on the gas stove. 

BREAKFAST PUFFS. 

One pint of milk, one pint of flour, two eggs, a lump of but- 
ter the size of an egg, and a pinch of salt; put the flour after 
sifting into a pan, and the butter in the middle of the flour, 
break in the eggs; work the butter and eggs thoroughly into the 
flour, then gradually add the milk until you have a smooth bat- 
ter. Bake them in French roll pans. They take but a few min- 
utes to bake. 



Among the Dacoits 



H 



ANDALAY, the capital of King Theebaw of Burmah, 
was occupied by the British and Indian troops on the 
^ 27th of November, 1885. Theebaw surrendered as a 
State prisoner to General Prendergast and was shortly 
afterward sent on to Madras. That arch-fiend ami schemer, 
Soofayah-Lat, Theebaw's wife, accompanied her husband in his 
exile, no doubt to his intense disgust, after having been cunning 
enough to parcel out most of the very valuable crown jewels 
among her relatives. These were nearly all recovered by Mr. 
Bernard, who was made commissioner of Upper Burmah, and 
are now to be seen in the jewel room at the Tower of London. 
At this time the whole of Upper Burmah was in an intensely 
lawless condition, no man's life being safe from the wandering 
bands of dacoits or banditti. The bohs, or chiefs, of the differ- 
ent tribes levied blackmail on all the villages in their district, 
and on a refusal to pay generally razed the village to the ground 
and put to death most of the inhabitants. So terror-stricken 
were the pcopic, they sent their head men to place the matter 
before the English General, and he decided that as the country 
had been annexed it was time to attempt its pacification; so on 
the 8th of December we were ordered to resume our march to 
the north. 

On the 4th c<f January, 18S6, we entered the town of Bhanio, 
the most northerly town of any consequence on the Irrawaddy, 
but not until twenty-seven of our poor fellows had been sent to 
the land' of spirits. There were plenty of half-breed Chinese, 
Shans, Kashins and other ruffians gathered together in the town, 
and altogether they made a pretty good fight of it. But they 
couJd not stand the big rockets being fired through their stock- 
ades, and when a shell went screaming over their heads they 
bolted for dear life. When the native troops charged through 
the breach which had been made in the stockade the Burmans 
128 



The Other Way. 129 

stood their ground, even the women, and these last inflicted 
many an ugly wound on our men, as they were busily engaged 
giving the coup de grace to an adversary. 

At last, however, it was all over, and the ihead men of the 
town begged for an audience with the senior officer in com- 
mand, in the hope of being able to make terms. The only 
terms v/ere, of course, the absolute submission of the Burmese 
army and the complete surrender of the town, with all of its ad- 
jacent fortifications. This they at last agreed to, as they were 
powerless to avoid it, but they did not do so with a good grace. 
For some days afterward there were constant little emeutes at 
right time, and we lost a considerable number of men in sup- 
pressing these outbreaks. Our sentries were brought in, night 
after night, having been stabbed in the back or decapitated by 
the enemy, until at last four sentries were posted together to 
prevent this happening. Such heavy guard duty told severely 
on the troops, and the dreaded enteric fever began to make its 
appearance among them with appalling frequency. Deaths from 
this awful scourge were of daiJy occurrence, and at last, as 
chief medical officer in charge, I decided to move nine of my 
convalescent cases to the town of Shweego Myo, about thirty 
miles from Bhamo, trusting that the Ihill climate would hasten 
their recovery. 

We started on a Saturday morning — how well do I recollect it 
— ^as tlie sun was rising and casting his beams on the gilded 
spires of the pagodas and monasteries. As we passed down to 
the wharf we met a long file of phoongyees, or Buddhist 
monks who had been to the river to perform their matutinal 
ablutions. Their curses were both loud and deep, as they no 
doubt did not know that I understood their language. At heart 
they were all dacoits, and so far as their appearance went they 
would have done credit to any rogues' gallery in the world. As 
we embarked on one of the big country boats I heard their ab- 
bott consign us to the tender mercies of the great Ye oh Nat — 
one of the terrible spirit powers or ogres whom they worship. 
Looking back on it all, I am half inclined to believe that the 



I30 The Other Way. 

Nat did hear the abbott's prayer, for it was not long before ht 
began to look after us in his own peculiar way. 

We dropped anchor in the stream on Saturday night intend- 
ing to reach Shweego Myo by ii o'clock on Sunday morning. 
It was the old, old story. Man proposed — but the Nat disposed 
of us this time. We got under way at about 6 o'clock on Sun- 
day morning, and were about six miles from our destination 
when, as we ix)unded a small promontory which jutted out into 
the river, we were covered by about lOO Burmese rifles and 
prompty ordered to come ashore. This I at first refused to do, 
and it was not until two of our boatmen had been shot dead and 
I saw a big boat full of Burmese soldiery shoot out from the 
other side of the promontory that I gave the helmsman the or- 
der to steer the boat inshore. When we arrived within talking 
distance of the shore, a boh, or chief, of the Burmese dacoits, 
came down to the water's edge and asked me who I was and 
who gave me permission to bring white devils down the river 
in a boat. I tried to parley with him, but it was of no use. We 
were ordered to come ashore as quickly as possible if we did 
not wish to be shot to pieces in the boat. Many a time during 
the day did I wish that I had chosen the boh's alternative, both 
on my own account and on account of the sick men of whom I 
had charge. 

The boat drew too much water to come close to the shore, so 
I was obliged to jump into the water and wade ashore to inter- 
view the boh. I exhausted all my powers of persuasion in try- 
ing to induce him to allow the sick men to remain in the boat, 
but it was to no purpose. Some Burmans waded into the river, 
boarded the boat and dragged the sick men ashore, and were by 
no means gentle in the dragging process. At last they were all 
ashore and the Burmans crowded round us like flies 
round a honey pot, some of them demanding the men's 
accoutrements^ others clamoring for their clothes. The 
boh at once relieved me of my sword and revolver 
and strutted about with them, thinking himself a field 
marshal at the very least. All this time I was on tender hooks 
as to what our fate was to be. The men, sick as they were^ 



TJie Other Way. 131 

seemed to h^ve no idea of what was in store for them and kept 
up a pantomime of gesticulation with the Burmans. I knew 
that we would not be allowed to escape scot free, even if we de- 
livered up all the arms and stores we had with us, but thought 
that we would probably be kept as hostages for some of the 
chiefs in the hands of the British. We were certainly detained 
— but not as hostages. 

The boh and the head men now drew away to some distance 
from their men and appeared to be holding a council among 
themselves as to what was to be done with their prisoners. This 
council lasted about half an hour, and at the end of that time 
two men advanced toward me and ordered me to strip. Most 
unwillingly I divested mysdf of coat and vest, but this did not 
satisfy them, and I had to give them every article of clothing 
which I was wearing. Some more men then came up and fas- 
tened my hands and arms behind my back with rawhide ropes, 
and then dragged me up to the place where the boh was squat- 
ting on the ground. He then informed me that he had decided 
to n^ake an example of the prisoners and myself — an example 
which he hoped would be an example to any and all other Eng- 
lishmen who came prowling about the country where the illus- 
trious boh was chief. The men then escorted me to a very fine 
betelnut palm, at the foot of which was a log of wood. Upon 
this log I was ordered to stand. During all this performance I 
bad earnestly endeavored to appear as calm and collected as pos- 
sible, for I did not think it probable that with our troops only 
thirty miles distant the boh would dare to carry out any sinister 
designs he might have against our safety. But when I was told 
to stand up on the block of wood I must confess I had severe 
qualms about the boh's good intentions. 

I stood up, as ordered, and immediately a rope was thrown 
round my body and another round my legs, and I was tied 
<iuite tightly to the tree. A Burman then approached me, hold- 
ing some iron nails in one hand and a small mallet in the other. 
He immediately seized my right foot, and, placing the point of 
a nail in the center of it, proceeded with all the pleasure in the 
world to nail me down to the block I was standing on. This 



132 The Other Way. 

done, he arose from his squatting posture and surveyed his 
handiwork with quite a critical eye. He evidently did not think 
that I was quite safely nailed, for again stooping down he se- 
lected a long, slender nail, and this time nailed me through the 
fleshy part of the ankle to the tree trunk. This appeared to sat- 
isfy him, for he left me and went off to report progress to the 
boh. 

Although I was suffering most dreadful agony, I shall never 
forget the ihopeless look of despair upon the faces of the sick 
men. Their hands and feet tied, they were utterly helple^ss to 
assist me or themselves, and with only the prospect of a horrible 
death before them they yet raised enough courage to shout to 
me: "Cheer up, sir; we'll soon be with you." They were with 
me, but not in the same punishment, for the boh had evidently 
had changed his mind about the nailing business, and his men 
were busy erecting triangles of bamboos. Across the tops of 
these triangles a large bamboo was fastened, and I imagined 
I saw preparations for crucifixion on a large scale. But I was 
mistaken. 

The gentleman who had nailed me now came to unnail me by 
drawing the nail out of the ankle and knocking off the block 
of wood from the bottom of the foot, still leaving the nail in the 
flesh. They then invited me to step across the bamboo ar- 
rangement they had fixed up. Never, as long as I live, shall I 
forget the agony of that walk. I taunted them, their wives, sis- 
ters and mothers, in the hope that they would finish their work 
by a swift blow from a dah or a prod from a spear, but they only 
smiled. As I limped, hopped and stumbled across the rough 
earth, each movement giving me such agony that I was tempted 
to break down and make them carry me, they only smiled. They 
knew, and I did not, what was in store for us. 

At last I w.^s at the triangles, and they released my arms and 
hands. Now the nailing gentleman was standing very near me, 
and I was suffering, and in a moment of agony I treated him to 
a good stiff punch square between the eyes. The next instant 
I regretted it, for I received a c-ashing blow on the side of the 
head (whether it was a right or left "hook" which did it I have 



The Other Way. 133 

never been able to discover), and the nail, whiah was still stick- 
ing out a few inches underneath my foot, caught in the ground 
and I went down — and was kept down. My arms and hands 
were again tied, this time in front of me, and seizing my thumbs, 
the brutes began tying them together with deer sinews. Into 
these sinews, between the thumbs, they inserted a piece of bam- 
boo, which they twisted until the thongs cut into the flesh. They 
then tied a long rawhide rope to the sinews, and having lifted 
me on to my feet, the rope was thrown over the bamboo, which 
rested on top of the triangles, and I was drawn up until my big 
toes touched the ground. The other men were treated in like 
manner, and in fifteen minutes or so the whole ten of us were 
hanging by our thumbs to the bamboo. The time was now 
about 9 o'clock, and by 10:30 or 11 o'clock the sun had become 
almost unbearable. To make matters worse, the man hanging 
next to me had become delirious, and to have, to .listen to his 
ravings was almost worse than the punishment I was undergo- 
ing. At about 2 o'clock he died. Oh, the agony of it all! 
Hanging there by the thumbs, and feeling as if every nerve in 
your body was being drawn out by red-hot pincers, tongue and 
lips swollen and almost bursting from want of water, almost 
blind from the sun's terrible rays, and ihideous, grinning Bur- 
mans taunting and laughing at you. Could any punishment be 
more terrible? 

Before 4 o'clock two more men had died, and their heads had 
fallen backwards over their shoulders. Their glazed eyes, wide 
open, the swollen tongues hanging out from their mouths and 
the look of agony on their dead faces, almost drove the rest of 
us mad. Water, water, was the cry of all. But there is no 
mercy in a Burman. Once, and once only, did I think that we 
should receive a little mercy at their hands. Soon after the 
n:an hanging next to nie had died, a stalwart Burman strode up 
in front of me, and swinging his dah round his head, he made 
as if he were going to cut me in halves. But it was only play- 
fulness. He simply had a slash at the poor dead fellow and 
disemboweled him. 

It was about 5 o'clock, as near as I could guess, when the 



134 ^/'^ OtJier Way. 

Burmans retired to some distance from us and began to cook 
their evening meal. They were enjoying it after their day's 
pleasure, when suddenly a volley rang out, followed by the pe- 
culiar rattling noise of a couple of Catling guns, and many Bur- 
mans who had that day had their fun with us were sent to their 
account. A couple of loud cheers rang out, and a company of 
Ghoorkas and a detachment of the Somersetshires charged 
down upon the astonished Burmans. The nailing gentleman 
was making his way past the triangles at a very good pace, when 
he took it into his head to stop and give me a nasty poke with a 
spear. That sealed his fate, for a little Ghoorka was on him 
in an instant, and in another had severed the nailer's head from 
his body with the terrible Ghoorka kookri. Not many Burmese 
escaped that night, and I am afraid not a few were treated by the 
Ghoorkas to a little entertainment the very reverse of pleasant. 
Of course, we were very promptly cut down, and everything 
th.at could be done to ease our pain was do'Ue. The nailing gen- 
tleman's head wiis placed upon a stick, which was stuck in the 
ground outside the door of my tent by the Ghoorka whose 
troph}' it was. It was there until it became unbearably unpleas- 
ant, and then it was buried in an ant hill, where those indus- 
trious insects cleaned it thoroughly. The skull afterwards or- 
namented my study in Rangoon. 

Our rescue was s matter of luck. Spies had proceeded to 
Bharao two or thiee days before and had informed the com- 
manding ofncer that there was a band of marauding soldiers in 
the Shweego Myo district, and the troops who rescued us had 
been dispatched to attend to the band who had attended to us. 
One of the officers of the force had seen us hanging up through 
his field glasses^ and had made a detour with his men and had at- 
tacked the enemy on both flanks and in the rear, and most cer- 
tainl.i' made a ve^-y good job of it. 

After all, annexing countries like Upper Burmah is not all 
beer and skittles, is it? 



t^SweetmeatSi^ 



PENOCHI. 

Four cups brown sugar, one-haif cup of milk, one teaspoon 
vanilla, two cups walnuts, cut in small pieces, butter size of a 
walnut. Boil all together im a frying pan for fifteen minutes, 
then add butter, vanilla and nuts, let all come to a boil for two 
m.inutes then remove from the fire and pour on buttered dishes, 
when cold or hard cut in squares with a sharp knife. 

EVERTON TAFFY. 

One and one-half lb. brown sugar, three oz. butter, one and 
one-half cups cold water. Boil all together with rind of one 
lemon adding the juice when done. 

SUGAR CANDY. 

Six cups of sugar, one cup of vinegar, one cup of water, 
tablcspoonfuJ of butter, put in at the last, with one teaspoonful 
saleratus dissolved in hot water. Boil without stirring, half an 
hour, or until it crisps in cold water. Pull white with the tips 
of your fingers. 

CREAM CANDY. 

Two cups of sugar, half cup of water, one tablespoon vinegar. 
Boil all together until it ropes when dropped from the spoon. 
Just before removing from the fire add one teaspoon cream 
tarter, one teaspoon vanilla, butter size of a walnut. Pull white 
with the tips of your fingers. 
135 



136 The Other Way. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

One pint good molasses, quarter cup of vinegar, half cup of 
sugar, butter the size of a walnut, half teaspoonfud soda. Dis- 
solve the sugar in the vinegar, mix with the moQasses, and boil 
stirring frequently, until it hardens when dropped from the 
spoon into cold water; then stir in the butter and soda, the 
latter dissolved in hot water. Flavor to your taste, give one 
hard final stir, and pour into buttered dishes. As it aools, cut 
into squares for "taflfy," or, while soft enough to handle, pull 
into white sticks, using only the buttered tips of your fingers 
for that purpose. 

SUGAR CARAMELS. 

Two cups of granulated sugar, one cup of milk, quarter 
pound of choco'late. Boil in a frying pan for eleven minutes. 
Then add butter the size of an ^ZZ, and boil four minutes 
longer. Take from the stove, add a teaspoonful of vanilla 
and stir until it begins to harden, then pour into buttered pans 
to harden. Cut with sharp knife into squares when cold or 
hard. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Half pound of bakers' chocolate, two cups brown sugar, one 
cup of moilasses, one cup of milk. Boil all ogether until it 
hardens when dropped in cold water. Just before removing 
from the fire add half teaspoonful of soda, piece of butter the 
size of a walnut and a teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour on but- 
tered pans and when nearly cold or hard cut in squares with 
a sharp knife. 



-^ 



A Prison in Paradise«^«^v^ 



HE Andamans are a group of thickly wooded islands to- 
ward the east side of the Bay of Bengal, about 680 miles 
south of the Hooghly mouth of the Ganges. The is- 
lands consist of two groups— the Great and Little 
Andamans, and are surrounded by many smaller islands. The 
Great Andaman group is more than 150 miles long and 20 miles 
broad, and comprises four islands — the North, Middle and South 
Andaman and Rutland island. The Little Andaman, which lies 
about thirty miles south of the larger group, is twenty-eight 
miles long by seventeen miles broad. This is sufficient explan- 
ation of the geographical position of the Andaman islands. 

It was the time of the northeast monsoon when we left Cal- 
cutta in the convict ship Maharanee. Our destination was Port 
Blair, the penal settlement on Chatham Island, or, as it is now 
called, the South Andaman, and although it is one of the love- 
liest islands in the world, few, very few, other than officials and 
convicts ever set foot on its shores. 

On a Wednesday morning we had taken our last convict on 
board at Garden Reach, Calcutta, and we steamed down the 
river Hooghly to Saugor Island, where the heavy monsoon swell 
was more than perceptible. Our cargo of 380 convicts, on feel- 
ing the ship roll about in the rough sea, began a dirgelike wail, 
which only ceased as the wallers became prostrate with mal de 
nier. Despite the bad weather, we made Rangoon, the princi- 
pal seaport of Burma, on the following Saturday, and after tak- 
ing on board some 200 more convicts we made our way down 
the Irrawaddy and out into the Bay of Bengal, and on Tuesday 
afternoo-n dropped anchor in one of the finest harbors in the 
world, that of Port Blair, and proceeded at once to unload our 
cargo. 

And what a strangely mixed cargo it was! Here were Path- 
is? 



138 The Other Way. 

ans from Delhi rubbing shoulders with the burly natives of the 
Shan States in Burma; Coringhies from Southern India look- 
ing askance at small wiry Ghoorkas from Nepaul; delicate look- 
ing Mohammedan women from Southern Bengal standing near a 
group of Thibetan women whose gigantic proportions were in 
strong contrast to those of the graceful Bengal beebees. Mur- 
derous Manipuris, Sonthals and Nagas were chained to sleek 
and cunning Hindoos, and all seemed to be cowed and utterly 
without hope. Occasionally a stifled sob would be heard and a 
plaintive cry of "La Allah, Kureem!" (Oh, God, have mercy!) 
from one of the Mussulman women would disturb the silence of 
the 'tween decks, but otherwise there was no sound save the 
monotonous clinking of the chains and fetters, which were worn 
by all male convicts. 

We had no sooner anchored when the prison launch came off, 
towing four great barges astern. The male prisoners were es- 
corted into the barges by burly Sikh warders, and, after being 
securely fastened by chains to the ringbolts in the decks of the 
boats, a signal was given and they were at once taken ashore to 
the receiving prison. The women convicts were rowed ashore 
in the ship's lifeboats, some of them sobbing as if their hearts 
were breaking; others making no moan, but gazing back at the 
ship with a pathetic, yearning look upon their faces, as if they 
even dreaded to see the last of the vessel that had brought them 
so far from the homes they would never see again. But when 
they turn their eyes shoreward, surely even they must feel a 
momentary sense of satisfaction at having been sent to such a 
lovely spot — a veritable Garden of Eden — to serve out the sen- 
tence which the law had imposed upon them for the crimes they 
have committed. 

The sun is setting and throws his myriad beams of color over 
the white and cream-colored bungalows of the settlement as the 
small, busily puffing ship's launch takes us ashore. Not a rip- 
ple is on the water, and the view strikes one as being a scene 
in fairyland. White bungalows covered with masses of tropical 
flowers; green, velvety lawns reaching down to the water's edge; 
stately palms and giant bamboos towering in the background; 



The Other Way. 139 

the dying suii shedding a quivering amethyst haze over the 
scene — this was the view we had of Port Blair as we landed at 
the little Government pier. 

We are not allowed to dream over the beauty of the scenC; 
however. A soldierly looking Sikh orderly steps up, and after 
profoundly salaauiing, informs us that he had been sent by the 
Governor of the inlands, Major Temple, to see that our baggage 
WDS sent up to tlic bungalow at once. 

"Had he not brought coolies to do the will of his father, the 
Governor? The sahibs were also his father and his mother, for 
be, too, was a servant of the great Sirkar?" and with sundry 
cuises he admonishes the coolies (who, he tells us, arctobacco' 
drinking jackals and the sons of burnt fathers) to carry the bag 
gage careliiliy if they do not wish to feel the weight of his rat 
tan on their bare shoulders. 

The little pier is now quite crowded with officials and their 
wives and daughters, who are anxious to receive their mail. Two 
months is a long time to wait to hear from relatives and friends 
who are on!y a few hundred miles distant from you, and, conse 
qucntly, mail day at Port Blair is looked forward to by every- 
body with :i considerable amount of eagerness. The Governor 
has considerately sent down chairs, in which we can sit and be 
carried up to our quarters. There are four men to carry each 
chair, and they are all life-term convicts. Each man has an iron 
ring riveted round his neck^ and attached to this ring is a metal 
tag on which is engraved the convict's number, the date on 
which he was convicted and the term of his sentence. These men 
appear extremely healthy and by no means uncomfortable, as 
they are well fed, well housed, and are by no means over- 
worked. 

We decline the ride up to the bungalow, as we prefer to walk 
through the crowd of officers and officials, many of whom we 
have known when they were stationed in India. They have 
many a joke at cut expense, some of them asking us the terms 
of our sentence; others inquiring how soon it will be conven 
ient for us to receive the attentions of the prison armorer, whose 
duty it is to rivet the iron rings round the convicts' necks. With 



140 The Other Way. 

many a laugh and jest we stroll along the lovely avenues of 
eucalyptus trees until we reach the bungalow of the Lat Sahib, 
or High Commissioner of the Andaman Islands, Major Temple. 

The Major was there to receive us, and our reception was all 
that could be der.ired, for is not the Major an old Anglo-Indian, 
and what is more characteristic of an Anglo-Indian than cour- 
tesy and hospitality? After a tub we light one of the Major's 
cheroots and stroll about the magnificent grounds surrounding 
the bungalow until the gong sounds for dinner. And w!hat a 
dinner it was! Fresh turtle and delicious fish caught by the 
Mincopies and Andamanese, game of every description, fiery 
curries and fiuit from the Garden of Eden itself. 

During the dinner we ply the Major with innumerable ques- 
tions about the islands, the convicts, the aboriginees, etc., until 
he is obliged to call a halt, saying that he will answer all ques- 
tions about his "shop" on the morrow. To-night we will eat, 
drink and be n eiry. And we did — and were. 

After a rather sleepless night, owing to the savage onslaught 
of millions of mosquitos, which, despite mosquito curtains and 
eucalyptuo oil, found their way into bed, we rose early and pre- 
pared for a long day's sightseeing, for our amiable host ;had 
promised to be our guide on this day, at any rate. We had fin- 
ished breakfast and had embarked on the launch before we 
had thought to ask our guide whither he was taking us. To this 
query he replied that he had received information that a camp 
of Mincopies, as the aboriginees are called, were squatting at a 
small cove about twenty miles along the coast, and as this camp 
was composed oi about fifty men and women of the most war- 
like and barbarous tribe on the islands, it would be a good op- 
portunity for us to see Mincopies in their savage state. We had 
steamed along the coast for about two hours without seeing a 
solitary sign of human life or habitation, when we rounded a 
small promontory and came upon a camp of natives. The camp 
consisted of holes dug in the ground to a depth of about eight- 
een inc'hes. Over the tops of these holes leaves and branches 
of trees were spread and made some sort of rude shelter from 
the heavy dew which falls there at night. Not a native was to 



The Other Way. 141 

be seen^ however, until the steam whistle of the launch let out an 
unearthly shriek. Tlhen we could see the little fellows crawl- 
ing out of the pits, all the men being armed with a bow about 
five and a half feet long. We all got into the boat and were 
rowed ashore to see what a Mincopie locked like. 

Not a man or woman among them was over four feet six 
inches in height. Their bodies w€re covered with a thick, yel- 
low m.ud, made from turtle oil and clay, and their faces were 
decorated with red paint, made from a ferrugimous red earth 
which is found on the island. They plaster their bodies with 
mud for two reasons — first to protect themselves against the 
vicious insects which abound in the jungles, and second, because 
they believe that by so doing they will ward off the severe mal- 
aria which is so prevalent there. The men had no hair on their 
faces, and both men and women were utterly destitute of eye- 
lashes. With both sexes all the hair on the head is s'haven off 
with the exception of a narrow strip from crown to nape, and 
even this is kept cut quite close'. Their arms reach down to 
their knees, they .have a slight stoop when they walk, and as 
both men and women were stark naked, they presented an ap- 
pearance disgustingly simian. Settled homes they have none. 
They wander about from island to island, subsisting on fish, wild 
fruits, grubs, worms and clay. They have enormous appetites, 
and both men and women will easly consume about eight pounds 
of fish or grubs at one sitting and then soon be ready for more. 
They do not spin or cultivate any kind of corn, and monogamy 
seems to be the rule with them, with this exception — that if a 
woman loses her husband she immediately becomes the wife of 
her husband's father. 

One peculiar custom they have — a custom unknown among 
any savage races of to-day. If an adult dies he is sometimes 
sold to another tribe for food, but more often he is buried, and 
his tribe then migrate about twenty miles from the place of his 
death for about two months. Some months later, when the 
bones are dry, they are disinterred by his relatives and carried 
about for some time, the period being determined by his posi- 



142 The Other Way. 

tion in the tribe. These ape-like people have no religion, and 
are not afraid of anything, human or supernatural. 

The Mincopies only approach the settlements when their num- 
bers are being decimated by disease, malaria being the princi- 
pal cause ci death among them. They have learned to appre- 
ciate highly the quinine of the white man, but that is about the 
only drug they will take, seeming to like the intensely bitter 
taste it creates. The malarious influence of newly cleared jun- 
gles seem to affect them much more violently than it does 
Europeans, for they are mostly an unhealthy race of people, not 
one of them ever reaching the age of forty. 

To what races of people do they belong? They have been 
called by some writers "Oriental Negroes," but their hair, al- 
though close and woolly, is utterly unlike the hair of the Afri- 
cans; they have not the thick, protruding lips of negroes, nor 
have they the same formation of the skull. Other writers again 
affirm that the Mincopies are descendants of cargoes of African 
slaves which were wrecked on the Andaman islands, but When 
it is known that races of somewhat like character are found in 
the mountains of the Malay peninsula and are there called 
"Semangs," and also in the islands of the Philippine group, 
where they are termed "Ajitas," it is difficult to believe that they 
are in any way allied to the African negro. Their history has 
yet to be written, and as the natives themselves know nothing- 
about their forefathers and have not preserved any history even 
in legendary form, it is safe to say that the future :history will 
have to be purely hypothetical. 

Their weapons are beautifully primitive. The bows they use 
are made of a peculiar kind of redwood indigenous to the islands 
— th€ strings being long strips of bamboo. The arrowheads are 
made of fish bones or flint, and the arrows themselves are un- 
feathered, that is, so far as feathers are concerned, but they cut 
two small slits in the butt of the arrow, into which they insert 
pieces of dried bamboo leaf. Every man carries a short, heavy 
spear with a flint head, and they are singularly dextrous in the 
use of their primitive weapons. They are all cannibals, although 
they strenuously deny this when spoken to about it, but some 



The Other Way, 143 

few years since some English soldiers who were out boating 
were blown on to one of the smaller islands, and the search 
paity which was sent out to find them came on to their bones, 
picked beautifully clean, and their heads were still cooking in 
the embers. 

We made our way back to the launch, pondering deeply on 
the vagaries enjoyed by nature in fashioning her children- The 
little steamer began to puff and shriek to the great consterna- 
tion of the pigmy Mincopies, who stood on the beach watching 
our departure. We had seen enough of savages for one day. 

The next point of interest we visited was Viper Island. This 
was the is'and on which the penal settlement was first estab- 
lished in 1858. Here were sent mutinous Sipahis, thugs and 
desperadoes from all over India, and it was here that Lord 
Mayo, the Viceroy of India, met his death at the hands of a 
fanatical Pathan in 1872. 

The island rises shee^ out of the water to a height of 300 feet 
en three sides, and on the east side it has a precipitous descent 
into the water of about 100 feet. This island is the home of 800 
of the most desperate convicts in the world. Murderers, mutin- 
eers, thugs are all congregated here, and will never leave the 
place until they die. This is the punishment prison to which ill- 
behaved convicts are sent from the prison at Port Blair. The 
discipline here is terribly severe, as it needs to be to keep in sub- 
jection such a hard crowd. Escape is impossible, as the island 
is guarded by white troops, and there is only one boat of any 
sort allowed near the place, and that is an armed Government 
cutter. 

We were glad to leave Viper Island, with its murderous in- 
habitants and make our way back to Port Blair. The largest 
prison in the world is at Port Blair. It can accommodate 15,000 
prisoners, and is nearly always filled to overflowing. But the 
Government certainly treats the prisoners well. If a man has a 
long sentence to serve, and behaves himself for the first four 
years, he is released on parole, land is given to liim to cultivate, 
farming implements and stock are supplied to him at cost pnce, 
and he has a chance which not a few take advantage of to be- 



144 The Other Way. 

come a respectable member of society once more. His sins are 
not remembered against him if he keeps straight, and in times 
of bad crops, etc., money is lent to him free of interest to tide 
over his difficulties. In fact, all the stores in Port Blair are 
owned entirely by convicts. The caste system has no place at 
the Andamans, as is proved by men who were Brahmins be- 
fore conviction and transportation to Port Blair having married 
low-caste women who have also been released on parole. 

The prisoners who were in the prison workshops making bas- 
kets, jute bags, boots, etc., seemed quite a happy, contented 
crew. Why should they not be? Your average Indian native 
is a philosopher in his own way, and as ihe gets two good meals 
a day, a good bed and one day's idleness every week, he would 
be an idiot not to make the best of things, for it is more than 
probable that he was never so well looked after before. Of 
course, if he does not behave himself well, there are the triangles 
before him, to which he will be inevitably tied and flogged if 
he gives reasonable cause for the same. He knows this, and 
consequently guides his conduct so as to avoid it. 

After a pleasant stay of one week we went on board the 
Maharanee again to return to Calcutta, almost commiserating 
our fates in not being convicts so that we might remain in that 
veritable Garden of Eden, the Andaman islands. 




RECIPES^^oe^ 



Soups 



GREEN PEA. 

Two qts. veal or beef broth, one-half teaspoon sugar, one 
tablespoon butter, one qt. shelled peas. After broth boils put 
in peas, boil for twenty minutes. Add the sugar and little mint. 
Boil quarter of an hour longer, then stir in the butter with pep- 
per and salt. 

CELERY SOUP. 

One shank of beef, one large bunch of celery, one cup of rich 
cream. Make a good broth of a shank of beef, skim oflf the fat 
and thicken the broth with a little flour mixed with water. Cut 
into small pieces one large bunch of celery, or two small, boil- 
ing them in the soup till tender. Add a cup of rich cream with 
pepper and salt. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Chop the ox-tail into small pieces, with a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, and stir until brown, and then pour ofif the fat; add broth 
to taste, and boil with a medium flame until the pieces of tail 
are well cooked; season with pepper, salt and three or four to- 
matoes; boil fifteen minutes and then serve. This soup can be 
made with water, in which case, season with turnip, onions, 
carrot and parsley. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One quart of tomatoes, one quart of milk, one pint of water; 
boil water and tomatoes together twenty minutes, then add the 
145 * 



146 The Other Way. 

milk and one teaspoonful of soda. Season as you would oyster 
soup, with butter, salt, and pepper. Rub through a colander 
into a tureen 

VEAL BROTH. 

Pick and wash a teacupful of rice, and put it into your dinner 
pot; cut up three or four small onions and add to the rice; next, 
add your meat, which should be cut into inch pieces; let the 
whole be covered with water from two to three inches above the 
n.eat. When it has boiled an hour, add a few small turnips and 
carrots sliced, with a tablespoonful of salt; a little before it is 
served stir in minced parsley. This is a favorite broth with 
many people. It is very nice without the carrots. 

NOODLES SOUP. 

Beat one ^ZZ ligbt, add a pinch of salt, and flour enough to 
make a stifif dough; roll out into a very thin sheet, dredge with 
flour to keep from sticking, then roll up tightly. Begin at one 
end and shave down fine like cabbage for slaw. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

To the broth in which chickens have been boiled for salad, 
etc., add one onion and eight or ten tomatoes, season with pep- 
per and salt; boil thirty minutes; stir in two well beaten eggs 
just before sending to the table, 

POTATO SOUP. 

Peel six large potatoes and four good-sized onions; cut up 
same, put just water enough to boil them in; when well done 
mash through colander; put back in the kettle with two 
cuarts of good sweet milk, a piece of butter the size of an t^^, 
salt and pepper to taste; set on the fire again and let it boil up; 
then put in one and a half pints of canned oysters and serve. 
This is enough for fifteen persons. 



The Other Way. 147 

EGG BALLS FOR SOUP. 

Rub two hard-boiled yolks of eggs to powder; mix with the 
raw yolk of one t^^ and a little flour; roll to the size of a hazel 
nut. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One can or quart of tomatoes, one pint of milk, one pint of 
boiling water, half-teaspon salt, quarter teaspoon pepper, butter 
size of a walnut. Boil tomatoes soft, about half an hour; strain 
through a sieve, pouring water through to prevent waste; re- 
turn to stove, let it come to a boil, stir in the soda, then the 
milk and seasoning; put the butter in when ready to serve. 

TOMATO SOUP NO. 2. 

One quart of tomatoes, one onion, two ounces of flour, four 
ounces of butter, two teaspoonfuls of sugar, two of salt, one- 
fourth of a teaspocnful of cayenne pepper, three pints of water, 
one-half pint of milk. Boil the tomatoes and onion in water 
for three-quarters of an hour. Add salt, pepper, sugar, butter, 
and flour; rub smoothly together like thin cream. Boil ten min- 
utes, separately. When both are boiling, pour the milk into the 
tomatoes, to prevent curdling. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Six boiled and mashed potatoes, one quart of milk, one-fourth 
pound of butter. Season to taste with pepper and salt. While 
mashing add the butter and pour in gradually the boiling milk. 
Stir well and strain through a sieve, heat once more. Beat up 
an egg, put in the tureen and pour it over the soup when ready 
to serve. 



148 The Other Way. 

Fish 

RULE FOR BOILING FISH. 

Any fish weighing from four to six pounds should be put in 
boiling water enough to cover it, add one tablespoonful of salt; 
and boil for thirty-five minutes. After the fish has got to boil- 
ing, turn the gas down very low so as just to keep the fish boil- 
mg gently all the time it is over the fire. 

LOBSTER SAUCE FOR BOILED FISH. 

One lobster, four tablespoons of butter, quarter of a teaspoon 
of cayenne pepper, two tablespoons of lemon juice, one pint of 
boiling water, cut the lobster in small squares, pound the coral 
with one tablespoon of butter, make a drawn butter sauce with 
the rest of the butter and one tablespoonful of floor; then add 
the lobster and lemon juice and serve. 

CREAMED LOBSTER. 

One lobster, tablespoon of butter, pepper and salt to taste,. 
Cut the lobster in small pieces, put a half cup cf water on the 
stove and when this is hot add the lobster, butter and season- 
ing, just before serving stir in a little flour to thicken it. This 
will be found a very enjoyable breakfast dish. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Line small patty-pans with puff-paste, into each pan put six 
oysters, bits of butter, pepper, and salt, sprinkle over a little 
flour and hard boiled eggs, chopped (allowing about two eggs 
for six patties), cover with an upper crust; notch the edges and 
bake. Serve either in the pans or remove them to a large 
platter. 



The Other Way. 149 

CODFISH BALLS. 

Pick fine one quart bowl of codfish; let it simmer on the back 
of thf stove for an hour; boil six good-sized potatoes, mash 
fine, and m'x, while hot, with the fish thoroughly; season with 
pepper, salt and butter; add three eggs, well beaten, and drop 
in hot cottolene; serve in a napkin; lay the napkin on a platter, 
and the balls on the napkin to absorb the grease. 

BAKED FISH. 

Open the fish, wash, wipe perfectly dry, and rub over with 
salt; lay in a dripping pan with a little butter and water, and 
bake thirty minutes in a hot oven, with a full flame on the Gas 
Stove. 

FISH STUFFING. 

Take about half a pound of stale bread ajid soak in water, 
and when soft press out the water; add a very little chopped 
suet, pepper, salt, a large tablespoonful of onion minced and 
fried, and, if preferred, a little minced parsley ; cook a trifle, and 
after removing from the fire add a beaten ^%%. 

CODFISH ON TOAST. 

Soak a cupful of shredded codfish in cold water for an hour; 
let it come to a boil, drain through a colander; turn into the 
skillet again with a little cold milk; season with butter and pep- 
per, stir smooth a tablespoonful of flour with a little cold milk; 
add, and let it boil for a moment; pour over buttered toast on a 
platter. 

SPICED SHAD. 

Split and rub with salt, and let it stand for three or four hours; 
put into a pot with boiling water to cover, adding a teaspoonful 



150 The Other Way. 

of salt to eviery quart of water; boil twenty minutes, then drain; 
sprinkle with two tablespoonfuls of allspice, and one teaspoon- 
ful of cayenne pepper; cover with cold vinegar. 



SALMON STEAKS. 

To Broil Salmon — The steaks from the center of the fish are 
the best; sprinkle with salt and pepper, spread on a little but- 
ter, and broil in medium hot oven. 

BROILED SALMON. 

Wash and dry slices of salmon, and half an hour before cook- 
ing sprinkle over them a little cayenne pepper, salt, lemon juice 
and salad oil; grease the gridiron with a piece of pork, and broil 
carefully; ierve with any sauce suitable for fish. 

CREAM BAKED TROUT. 

Clean tlie trout, put in pepper and salt and close them. Place 
the fish in the pan, bake fifteen minutes, and cover with hot 
cream before serving. 

CODFISH A LA MADRID. 

Soak codfish from four to six hours in cold water, changing 
water occasionally. Cut in two-inch squares. Fry in sweet oil 
with two cloves, garlic and one small onion. Put in a can of 
tomatoes and stew slowly until fish is thoroughly cooked. 

SALMON SAUTE. 

Cut one and one-half pounds of salmon into pi-eces one inch 
square; put the pieces in a chafing-dish with half a cupful of 
water, a little salt, a little white pepper, one clove, one blade of 
mace, three pieces of sugar, one heaping teaspoonful of mustard 



The Other Way, 151 

mixed smoothly with half a teacupful of vinegar, one shalot; let 
this boil up once and add six tomatoes peeled and cut into tiny 
pieces, a few sprig-s of parsley minced, and one wineglassful 
of sherry. Let all simmer gently for three quarters of an hour. 
Serve very hot and garnish with dry toast cut in triangular 
pieces. This dish is also very good cold for breakfast or 
luncheon. 

Meats 

RULES FOR BOILING MEATS. 

All fresh meat should be cooked in boiling water, that the 
outer part may contract and the internal juices be preserved. 
For making soup, put on in cold water. Salt meat should be 
put on in cold water, that the salt may be extracted in cooking. 
In boiling meats, it is important to keep the water constantly 
boiling, otherwise the meat will absorb the water. This can 
be done by cooking by gas to bettter advantage than by using 
any other fuel, as the heat is perfectly even. 

Salt meat should be put into cold water and boiled slowly. 

ROASTING MEATS. 

Light oven burners full for at least ten minutes before meat 
is put in. The burners should then be turned down to about 
one-half the heat; allow as a rule fifteen minutes to each pound 
of meat. In cases where gas pressure is heavy, on© burner 
turned down is often sufficient. Where too much heat is used 
the meat is apt to scorch on top and not have a chance to cook 
through. When the oven is thoroughly heated and meat put 
in, very little gas is necessary to perfectly roast it. Meat should 
be placed about four inches below burners. 



152 The Other Way. 

BROILING MEATS. 

Heat the ovenis ten minutes. Leave heat on full, and put 
steak or chops on pan rack and as close to burners as possible, 
care being taken that flame does not come in contact with it. 
In this way broiling may be done faultlessly. The heat closing 
the pores of the meat and thus allowing none of the juices to es- 
cape. Turn the meat on the first side just as soon as the pores 
are closed. Allow second side to brown, then turn and brown 
first side. 

BEEF STEW. 

Cut cold beef into small pieces, and put into cold water; add 
one tomato, a little onion, chopped fine, pepper and salt, and 
cook slowly; thicken with butter and flour browned and pour 
over toast. 

A RAGOUT OF COLD VEAL. 

Cut the veal into slices, put a large piece of butter into a fry- 
ing-pan, and as soon as it is hot dredge the meat well with flour 
and fry a nice brown. Remove the meat and put into the pan 
as much cold gravy as you think proper, season with pepper and 
salt, and a wine-glass of tomato ketchup, then lay a few slices 
of cold ham in the gravy and add your slices of veal. It must 
be sent to the table hot. 



IRISH STEW. 

Cover mutton chops well with water; and let them come to 
a boil; pour this ofif and add more water; then a lump of 
butter the size of an egg, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one tea- 
cupful of milk, season; potatoes, and two small onions. Boil 
until the rx tatoes are done. 



The Other Way. 153 

BEEF HASH. 

Chop fine cold steak or roast beef, and cook in a little water; 
add cream or milk, and thicken with flour; season to taste, and 
pour over thin slices of toast. 

PIGEON COMPOTE. 

Truss six pigeons as for broiling. Crumb a small loaf of 
bread, scrape one pound of fat bacon, chop thyme, parsley, an 
onion and lemon peel fine, and season with salt and pepper, mix 
it up with two eggs; put this force-meat into the craws of the 
pigeons, lard the breasts and fry brown; place them in a stew- 
pan with some beef stock and stew them three-quarters of an 
hour; thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour. Serve 
with force-meat balls around the dish and strain the gravy over 
the pigeons. 

VEAL PATTE. 

Mince z^k lbs. veal very fine;. six butter crackers rolled fine; 
one tablespoon salt; one teaspoon black pepper; one-half tea- 
spoon ground cloves; four oz. butter; two eggs. Mix well to- 
gether; shape like a loaf of bread; lay on top a small piece of 
butter and grated bread; bake in gas oven two hours. While 
baking baste with water. 

WASH DAY MEAT PIE. 

This is original and very nice, made from cold veal and 
chicken left over from Sunday. Chop the veal, but not too 
fine; season with a little salt, pepper and nutmeg and the juice 
of one lemon; separate the chicken from the bones and chop it; 
season with half bunch finely-chopped celery, a piece of butter 
the size of an ^z^, cut in small pieces; have the chicken gravy 
hot; half dozen hard-boiled eggs, cold cut in quarters. For 
the crust: Two cups of flour, two tablespoons of cottolene, a 



154 The Other Way. 

little salt, nearly a teaspoonful of baking powder and one egg 
enough milk to make a soft dough; line the sides of the pie- 
dish (it is to be sent to the table in the dish it is cooked in) 
with a crust, one-fourth inch thick, place the veal in the bottom 
of the dish; then a layer of the eggs, then the chopped chicken; 
pour the gravy over the pie, enough to make it quite moist; 
cover with a crust one-fourth inch thick; bake in a slow oven 
one-half hour. 

KIDNEY STEW. 

Remove fat from two beef kidneys, cut in dice shape; let 
stand in boiling water two minutes; then drain and dredge with 
flour; put tablespoonful of butter in frying pan and fry brown. 
Take half can tomatoes, season with salt, pepper and Worces- 
tershire sauce, put in saucepan with kidneys and boil half hour. 
Serve upon squares of toast. 

MUTTON STEW. 

Take two pounds of good mutton of the rib, cut up in small 
pieces and stew with pepper, salt and one onion; when cooked 
tender make some dough of milk, baking powder, salt and flour; 
cut into small pieces and drop into the kettle with the mutton; 
let them cook just three seconds, lift out and put in a dish; make 
a hickening of flour and put in with the mutton. This makes 
a nice gravy to pour over the mutton and dumpling. Serve 
while hot. 

PEPPER POT. 

Boil two pounds of beef; when done take out the beef, cut 
in pieces as large as a walnut and place it in a dish; strain the 
liquor and pour it back. Cut up a pound of tripe the same as 
the meat, and three or four potatoes. Chop one large onion, 
add a little celery and parsley; chop together. When you have 
all in readiness, put everything in the pot except the meat. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper; put in some chile peppers — small 



The Other 14^ ay. 155 

ones. When thoroughly done, add small dumplings; then the 
meat. Serve hot. 



LAMB CHOPS A LA PRINCESSE. 

Broil the chops in the usual manner, and when partially cold 
d'p each one separately in some strong allemande sauce, flavored 
with mushrooms. Place each chop flat on a baking dish and 
set on the ice until the sauce is firm; then dip them in tgg and 
bread crumbs and fry them in hot lard. Garnish them with 
some boiled csparagus and cover with a good gravy. 

BEEF TONGUE. 

Mrs. L. Reilly, Turlock, Stanislaus County, California. 

Choose a moderate sized tongue, boil in salt water until ten- 
der, remove from the water, strip the skin and trim nicely 
around the roots; put into a saucepan one-quarter pound of 
butter, one tablespoonful of flour; half an onion cut into small 
pieces, salt and pepper to taste; let these dissolve gently near 
the fire until the butter boils, place the tongue into these in- 
gredients, and let remain until it is browned, when browned take 
it out and place on a hot dish near the fire; then add to the 
giavy two wineglassfuls of red wine, (claret is preferable), one 
large teaspoonful of made mustard, and one of walnut catsup, 
mix well; return the tongue into the gravy and simmer ten 
riinutes, keeping all well covered; when served, cut the tongue 
into thick pieces. 

MEAT PATTIE. 

Mix sausage meat with three eggs, with little brandy and 
sherry; make nice rich paste for bottom of pan. Slice all your 
meat in thin slices while raw. First a layer of fresh pork, sea- 
soned with salt and pepper and a little nutmeg, after which 
layer of young veal; season same as fresh pork; next layer of 



156 The Other Way. 

sausage meat, well beaten; next layer of chicken and quail; 
mix with truffles between all the layers; cover same tightly 
with paste, with small airholes; yolk of ^ZZ on surface to 
polish same; all bones extracted; put on the fire, cook slowly 
all day to make jelly; have your stove hot, or rather medium 
heat for four hours with even heat. When you take pattie out 
of stove cut small hole in the top and fill with jelly all it 
will hold. Place in cold place until ready to serve. When ready 
to serve cut in slices like cheese. Fit for a poor man as well as 
a prince. 

Salads 

MAYONNAISE SAI.AD DRESSING. 

The yolk of one ^^z, raw; stir into this all the olive oil it will 
h*>ld, in as fine a sfeam as possible. Season with lemon juice, 
cayerne pepper, salt and mustard. 

SALAD DRESSING MADE WITH BUTTER. 

Four tablespoons of butter, i tablespoon flour, i tablespoon 
salt, I tablespoon sugar, i teaspoon dry mustard, a slight 
sprinkle cayenne pepper, i cup milk, half-cup vinegar, 3 eggs. 
Let the butter get hot in a saucepan, add the flour, stir until 
smooth, but do not let it brown, then add the milk, and boil up 
to a cream, place the saucepan in another vessel of hot water, 
beat the eggs, add the salt, pepper, sugar, mustard and vinegar; 
stir into the boiling mixture till it thickens like a soft custard, 
which will be in about five minutes. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Boil one egg very hard, rub the yolk to a pulp, add one raw 
yolk, one teaspoon flour or corn meal, one teaspoon vinegar. 



The Other Way. 157 

one of sweet oil, one of butter, half-spoon mustard, a little 
cayenne pepper and salt. Beat all to a cream and pour over cold 
sliced potatoes. One small raw onion chopped fine is by many 
considered a great im.provement. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mince the meat of two cooked fowls, with a little ham or 
tongue; cut up fine a nice head of lettuce; put it in a dish, with 
the chicken in the center; for the dressing, take the yolks of four 
eggs well beaten, two teaspoonfuls mixed mustard, two table- 
spoonfuls Of vinegar and four of oil, half a teaspoonful of 
cayenne pej. per; boil the mixture, and when cold pour it over 
the chicken, and ornament it with sliced white of ^^z arid beets. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Boil six good sized potatoes, peel and slice while hot, and 
pour over the following: Cut one-half pound lean bacon in 
sm.all dice and fry brown. Season potatoes witht salt, pepper, 
and finely sliced onion. Mix thoroughly with the bacon fat 
and dice, and then add one-half cup white vinegar. Garnish 
v/ith sliced hard boiled eggs. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

One can shrimps. Wash and cut in halves. Make a dressing 
of two eggs, whites beaten first then yolks added, one table- 
spoonful salad oil added slowly, one teaspoonful each salt and 
pepper, one-half cup vinegar, a little mustard. Stir all to- 
gether on stove until it thickens, and when cold pour over the 
shrimps, to which has been added celery or finely cut lettuce. 

CRUMED OYSTERS. 

One pint of cream, one quart oysters, half of small onion, one 
bla.le of mace, one tablespoon of flour, one tablespoon of butter, 



158 The Other Way. 

salt and pepper to taste. Mix flour and butter together in a lit- 
tle milk ar-d stir in the boiling cream, with the mace and onion; 
when done, strain, scald the oysters in their own liquor; strain 
and pour on the sauce. 

Pickles, Catsup, Etc. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Two pecks of ripe tomatoes, one ounce of salt, one ounce of 
mace, one tablespoon of black pepper, one teaspoonful cayenne 
pepper, one tablespoonful cloves (powdered), seven table- 
spoonfuls ground mustard, one tablespoonful celery seed (tied 
in a thin muslin bag). Cut a slit in the tomatoes, put them 
into a metal or porcelan kettle, and boil until the juice is all 
extracted and the pulp dissolved. Strain and press through 
a colander then through a hair sieve. Return to the fire, add 
the seasoning, and boil five hours, stirring constantly for the 
last hour, and freiiuently all the time it is on the fire. Let it 
stand twelve hoars in a stone jar in a cool place. When cold 
add a pint of strong vinegar. Take out the bag of celery seed, 
and bottle, sealing the corks. Keep in a dark, cool place. 



TO PICKLE RED CABBAGE. 

Cut the cabbage and slice it very thin, shake on salt and leave 
it twenty-four hours to drain. Boil an ounce of black pepper 
and an ounce of allspice in a quart of vinegar, and when cold 
pour it over the cabbage, then pack it close and keep it well 
covered, a couple of sliced onions mixed in improves it. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

To two and a half quarts of ripe raspberries put one pint of 
best cider vinegar, bruise them well and let them stand three 



The Other Way. 159 

days, then strain the juice and add its weight in sugar, boil it, 
skim well and bottle closely. This will be found most excel- 
lent. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

Chop equal quantities of green tomatoes and cabbage quite 
fine, sprinkle a little salt between the layers, put a layer of green 
peppers with the tomatoes and cabbage, let it stand in the salt 
over night, and then if too salt squeeze a little. Put of spice a 
handful of mustard seed, teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, tea- 
spoonful of ground cloves, scald for a short time in vinegar, 
about a couple of hours. 

CHILI SOI. 

Twelve ripe tomatoes, one green pepper, one onion, one cup 
of vinegar, one tablespoon of salt, one tablespoon sugar. Boil 
all together for four hours. 

CURRANT CATSUP. 

Five pounds currants, three pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, 
one teaspoonful ground cinnamon, one teaspoonful allspice, one 
teaspoonful whole cloves. Boil all together for one hour. 



PICKLED WALNUTS. 

Choose the walnuts when a pin will go through them with 
ease, put them in salt and water for a week, changing brine 
twice in that time. Then drain off the water, and set them over 
the fire with as much vinegar as will cover them, in which let 
them boil a quarter of an hour, then add black pepper, ginger, 
mace, bay leaves, mustard seed, and garlic, till you have them 
seasoned to taste. 



i6o The Other Way. 

Puddings 

PLUM PUDDING. 

I. One pound of raisins, stoned, one of currants washed and 
dried, one of rich beef suet minced, one of stale breadcrumbs, 
one of flour. Mix bread-crumbs, flour and suet together; beat 
six eggs well, and add to them a pint of sweet milk (a teaspoon- 
ful of soda in the milk); beat the eggs and milk with the suet 
and flour for some time, then stir in the currants and raisins, 
mixing well as you proceed. Mix in also one-fourth of a pound 
of candied orange and lemon peel cut into small pieces, one 
ounce of powdered cinnamon, one-half ounce of powdered gin- 
ger, one grated nutmeg, and a little salt. Either bake or boil, 
according to taste; bake nearly two hours; if boiled, pour into 
a cloth; tie the cloth, allowing a little room to swell, and boil 
for six hours. It is better boiled. Serve with vanilla sauce. 
2. To half a pound wheat flour add half a pound of raisins 
stoned and chopped, and the same of currants picked, washed, 
and dried; use milk enough to stir easily with a spoon, add half 
a pound of suet chopped fine, four well-beaten eggs, and a large 
teaspoonful of mace, cinnamon and allspice; mix all well to- 
gether, and boil for two hours and a half in a cloth or tin; serve 
with butter or sugar, or wine sauce. Plum pudding, if cold, may 
be warmed in a pan with some of the sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Three cupfuls of flour, or sufficient to make the batter; one 
tablespoonful of butter, one cupful of sugar, two eggs, one cup- 
ful of milk, half a teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful each 
of cream of tartar and salt; mix the cream of tartar with the 
flour; beat the whires of the eggs; put the butter, sugar and 
yolks of the eggs together; then work in the milk, soda and 
salt, adding gradually the flour and whites of thg eggs; there 
should be flour enough to make a fairly stiff batter; butter a 



The Other Way. i6i 

njold or dish and bake; it may be turned out or served from 
the dish; to be eaten with any liquid sauce. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Scald together one quart of milk and three ounces of grated 
chocolate, and set it aside to cool; then add nearly a cup of su- 
gar and the yolks of five eggs; bake, and when done spread the 
whites on top, beaten stiff with sugar, and brown. 

DELMONICO PUDDING. 

Stir three tablespoonfuls of corn starch into one quart of boil- 
ing milk, and lor ii boil two minutes; beat the yolks of five eggs 
with six tablespoonfuls of sugar, flavor and stir in the corn 
starch. Put the whole into a dish, and bake it. Beat the whites 
of the eggs, stir into them three tablespoonfuls of sugar, and 
when nicely done, spread on the top and bake a light brown. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

One-quarter of a pound of butter, yolks of five eggs, one- 
quarter of a pound of sugar; beat butter and sugar together; 
add a little of the cocoanut at a time, and one-half teacupful of 
cream. Do not bake too long, as it will destroy the flavor. Use 
one cocoanut. After it is baked, beat the whites of the eggs 
with four or five tablespoonfuls of sugar. Spread over the pud- 
ding, and bake a light brown. 

VELVET PUDDING. 

Five eggs, beaten separately, one cup of sugar, four table- 
spoonfuls of corn starch, dissolved in a little cold milk, and 
added to the yolks and sugar; boil three pints of milk and add 
the other ingredients while boiling; remove from the gas stove 
when it becomes quite thick; flavor with vanilla, and pour into 



i62 The Other Way. 

a bakii g-dish; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add 
half a cup of sugar, turn ov>er the pudding; place in the oven and 
let it brown slightly. To be eaten with this sauce: Yolks of 
two eggs, one cup of sugar, and a tablespoonful of butter; beat 
well; add one cup of boiling milk, set on the stove until it 
comes to boiling heat; flavor with vanilla. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

I, Cut up oranges in small pieces to make a thick layer on 
the bottom of a pudding dish. Make a thick boiled custard, and 
when cool pour over the oranges. Use the whites of the eggs 
(two or three), make a meringue of the whites, spread over the 
top, and slightly brown in the oven. 2. Scald one pint of milk. 
While it is heating, pare and separate three or four oranges, 
place them in a two-quart dish, and put one teacup of sugar 
over them. Take the yolks of two eggs, half a teacup of sugar, 
three teaspoonfuls of corn starch; beat together, and add to 
milk; let it boil, and pour over the oranges; beat the whites of 
two eggs stiff with a little pulverized sugar, and pour over the 
whole; bake until the whites are of a light brown. 3. One quart 
of milk, three eggs, two dessertspoonfuls of corn starch; use 
the yolks, corn starch, and milk to make a boiled custard; let 
it stand until cold, pare and slice four oranges in a dish, with 
two cups of sugar, pour the custard over the oranges, stir all 
together, put the whites, well beaten with a little sugar, on the 
top; set in the oven for a few moments to brown; let it get very 
cold before serving. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

I. One cup of tapioca, soaked two hours on the gas stove in 
one quart of water. Have only a quarter flame, sufficient to 
keep it hot. Butter a pudding-dish well, and line the bottom 
with pared and cored apples; season the tapioca with a spoonful 
of sugar, a very little cinnamon, or nutmeg, and salt; pour it 



The Other Way. 163 

over the apples, and bake until the apples are thoroughly done. 
Bat with sugar and cream. 2. Take ten tablespoonfuls of tap- 
ioca, wash it in warm water, drain off the water, and put the 
tapioca in a pan with a quart of rich milk; set the pan over a 
kettle of boiling water, and stir till it thickens, then add two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, six of white sugar, one lemon grated 
(or flavor to suit the taste with good lemon or vanilla extract), 
remove the pan from the fire, and having beaten four eggs very 
light, stir them gradually into the mixture. Pour it into a 
buttered dish, and bake three-fourths of an hour. Serve with 
rich cream or custard sauce. 

SUET PUDDING. 

I. One teacup of molasses, one of suet, one of sweet milk, 
two cu])S cf raisins, two and a half cups of flour, one teaspoon- 
ful of ginger, one of cinnamon, a half teaspoonful of allspice, 
a half teaspoonful of nutmeg, one teaspoonful of soda. Boil or 
steam. Make sauce as for plum pudding. 2. One cup of 
chopped beef suet, cne cup of molasses, one cup of milk, three 
cups of flour, one ^^z^ one teaspoonful of salt, and three quar- 
ters of a teaspoonful of soda, one cup of raisins; mix well, 
and steam two hours. Serve with liquid sauce, flavored with 
nutmeg. 3. One pint of bread sponge, one cup of chopped 
suet, one cup oi brown sugar, one cup of sweet milk, one large 
cup of raisins, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, one 
of cloves, one of salt, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of soda, 
f:cur to make stiff batter. Put into a two-quart pan, and 
steam twc hours .nnd a half. Do not lift the cover until done. 
Make any kind of sauce you like best and serve hot. 

PLAIN BOILED PUDDING- 

One cup cf sour cream, one-half cup of molasses, one-half cup 
of melted butter, two and one-half cups of flour, one teaspoon- 
ful of scda, a little salt. Mix molasses and butter together, and 



164 The Other Way. 

heat until very light; stir in the cream and salt, and then the 
flour gradually, until it is a smooth batter; beat in the dissolved 
soda thoroughly, and boil in a buttered mold an hour and a 
half. To be eaten hot v.ith sweet liquid sauce. 



COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One cup of sugar, butter the size of a walnut, one-half cup 
of milk, two eggs t>^aten separately, one and one-half cups of 
flour, two teaspocnfulj: of baking powder. Serve with lemon 
sauce. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One-qi arter pound of figs chopped fine, one-quarter pound 
of bread crumbs, one- quarter pound of sugar (brown), one- 
quarter pound of suet, one-quarter pound of candied lemon peel 
and citron, one nutmeg and five eggs; mix thoroughly, put into 
a mold, and boil or steam four hours. 



VENOISE PUDDING. 

Five ounces of bread crumbs, four ounces of sugar, three 
ounces of raisins, two ounces of citron, O'ne teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla, half pint of milk, yolks of four eggs,, 
one ounce of brown sugar. Add the milk to this^ 
pour over the yolks, add the vanilla last, and steam one 
■hour and twenty minutes. 



SUET PUDDING. 

Half pound of chopped suet, one pound of flour, two eggs^ 
half pint of water, quarter teaspoonful of salt. Beat all well to- 
gether. Have your pudding cloth rung out of hot water and 
well floured, place in a kettle of boiling water and boil an 
hour and a half. 



The Other Way. 165 

SPANISH CREAM. 

Dissolve half a box of gelatine in one quart of milk, let it 
come to a boil just as in making custard. While one is stir- 
ring this to prevent it from burning let another beat the yolks 
of four eggs with seven tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, 
when the milk has come to a boil pour it lOver the eggs and 
sugar, then return to the stove to be cooked to the consistency 
of custard. After you have taken it off the stove aboiut one 
n.inute, have the whites oi the eggs well beaten whidh will nofw 
be stirred in. Flavor to taste with vanilla, then poutr into 
mould, f^.rst dipped into cold water. To be €aten cold with 
cream. 

WARM SAUCE. 

One cup of sugai, one-quarter cup of butter, one egg, on-e 
wine glass of wine or brandy, one teaspoonful of cornstarch, 
one-half pint of boiling water. Let it simmer for ten minutes, 
then remove from the fire and serve with any desired pud- 
ding. 

BAKED FLOUR PUDDING. 

One Quart of milk, five eggs, one tablespoonful of flour to 
each egg, half cup of sugar. Scald the flour in the milk, let it 
cool, then add the eggs; having saved the wihites of two for a 
nieringue. Test the pudding by putting a knife in it, when the 
ki.ife comes out clean it is done. For the meringue — take one 
tabiespooi ifu] of fiue-powidercd sugar to the white of each ^%Zy 
beat until it will drop from a spoon and add the juice of one 
lemon. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One pint of fiour, one cup of sugar, half cup of butter, two 
eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one cup of milk. 
Cream butter and sugar together until light then add the other 
ingredients. Bake in a moderate oven. 



1 66 The Other Way. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Half pound of suet, half pound moist sugar, half pound of 
currants, half pound of rais.rs, half pound of sultana raisins, 
half pound mixed candied i.eel, quarter pound bread crumbs, 
half teaspoon salt, quarter teaspoon mixed spices, four eggs, 
one-eighth pint of br.'mdy. Finely ohop the suet, stone the 
raisins, thoroughly wash I'.vA clean the currants and dry them, 
chop the peel, and sift the bread crumbs; mix all in the fol- 
lowing order. Tlcur, salt, spices, sugar, raisins, peel, bread- 
crumbs, sultanas and currents. Beat the eggs and strain them 
for ten minutes; add the brandy to them and pour over the 
mass, stii- for twenty-five minutes until the ingredients are 
thoroughly mixed. Eutter a mould and fill it; scald a clean 
cloth and llour it, tie the juddiiig down, and boil seven houis. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Grate one cocoanut, saving the milk if perfectly sweet, boil 
a quart of milk, and pour upon it, adding five eggs beaten wdth 
one cup of sugar and one tablespoonful of butter, add a little 
salt, two teaspoons vanilla extract, and milk from nut, and 
bake in a pudding dish lined W'ith rich paste. This is excellent 
baked like pie with under crust only. A plainer yet good pud- 
ding is made by pouring one and one-half pints boiling milk 
over one pint breadcrumbs and one dessicated cocoanut mixed; 
add tw'O tablespoons sugar and nutmeg to flavor. Bake in a 
moderate overi. 

SNOW JELLY. 

Take half box of gelatine and soak it in half pint of cold 
water; add one quart of boiling w^ater, one cup of sugar, the 
juice of one large lemon. Put in a dish to cool and w*hen stiff 
add the whites oi three eggs beaten very light and beat the 
mixture very light. Serve with custard sauce, made wnth the 
yolks of the three eggs one teaspoonfnl of corn starch and one 



The Other Way, 167 

quart of rr.ilk. In sninmer it is advisable to make it the day 
before it is to be used. 



PRUNE PUDDING. 

Scald 011c pound of prunes, let them swell in the water till 
soft, drain and extract stones, spread on a dish and dredge with 
flour. Take one gill of milk from a quart, stir it gradually with 
eight tablespoons sifled f^our, beat six eggs very light, stir in 
by degrees the remainder of the quart of milk, alternating with 
the batter, add prunes gradually and stir briskly. Boil two 
hours, and serve with wine sauce. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Whilts of two eggs and two cups of sugar. Cream well to- 
gether, and wiien very light add one quart of fresh straw- 
berries, that have been washed and hulled, and beat all to- 
gether for ten minutes or until very light. Then set in a cold 
place until ready to use. This will be found excellent with 
most any kind of a batter or baked pudding. 



TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

One cup best tapioca, cue pint milk. Place it over the fire 
and stir ten minute? or uulI ii thickens; add one pint milk, 
one cup sugar, two beaten CL'g-, one tablespoonful butter, a 
little salt and flavoring to taste. Mix thoroughly, and bake in 
a slow oven until brown. 



BLANC MANGE. 

One quart of milk, one cup best tapioca, one cup sugar. Stir 
briskly and boil until it thickens. Pour into a form or mould. 
Eat with syrup, jelly or cream. 



1 68 The Other Way. 

RICE CUSTARD. 

Three tablespoonfuls of rice flour made into a pap with cold 
milk, then stir it into one quart of boiling milk, and let it boil 
again, stirrinp^ to prevent burning, then remove and stir in at 
once a tablespoonful of butter, and a little salt, let it cool a little, 
then add a wine glass of brandy, four well beaten eggs, and two- 
thirds of a cup of sugar, flavor to taste. Bake in a deep dish 
twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, four tablespoons of sugar, and 
flavoring to taste. Beat the eggs very light and add to the 
milk, then put in the sugar and flavoring, and stir until the 
sugar is well dissolved. Have the oven lit for about ten min- 
utes before putting the pudding in, so as to have it good and 
hot. 

Pastry 

STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE. 

1. Make a biscuit paste, only using more shortening; roll 
thin, and put a layer into a baking-pan, spread with a little 
melted butter, and dust with flour, and add another layer of 
crust, spread as before, then another layer of crust, until all is 
used; bake in a quick oven, and when done spread straw- 
berries between the layers, turning the upper one crust-side 
down, spreading with strawberries, and pour over all charlotte 
russe or whipped cream. Orange short-cake can be made by 
simply substituting sliced oranges for strawberries. 

2. Make a nice soda-biscuit dough, bake in deep jelly-cake 
or pie-pans, split i.he cakes, and between the layers spread the 



The Other Way, 169 

strawberries, sprinkled with sugar. Eat with cream. Other 
berries or peaches sHced and put between the layers are nice. 

TWO-CRUST LEMON PIE. 

Line your pie-dish with a good crust; roll your lemons to 
soften them, grate the rind of one large ar two small lemons, 
cut the lemons into thin slices, pick out the seeds, spread evenly 
one layer over the crust, and one cup of sugar over the lemon; 
add one cup of paste, made by taking four tablespoonfuls of 
flour, wetting it with cold water, as you would to make starch; 
turn boiling water on it, stirring while cooking on the stove for 
a few moments, adding a pinch of salt, with the grated rind of 
the lemons. When thickened enough pour it over the sugar 
and lemon; cover with a crust, cutting slits in it to let out the 
air. Bake slowly. 

LEMON PIE. 

1. Two lemons, half cup of sugar, yolks of four eggs, one 
quart .of milk, two-thirds cup of flour; whites beaten; put over 
the top when the pie is done. 

2. Three eggs, one grated lemon, one cup of sugar, one- 
half cup of water, two spoonfuls of flour; bake; beat the whites 
separately, and add sugar, not quite as much as for frosting; 
put into the oven and brown a little. 

3. Two lemons, juice, and rind grated, two cups of white 
sugar, one cup of cream or rich, sweet milk, two tablespoonfuls 
of corn starch mixed with the yolks of six eggs; bake in a rich 
crust; beat the whites to a stiff froth with eight tablespoonfuls 
of pulverized sugar; spread on the top of the pies, and brown. 
This will make two pies. 

4. Grate two lemons, two cups of sugar, two eggs, half a cup 
of water, one tablespoonful of butter, one of flour. This will 
make half a dozen pies. 

5. Grated rind and juice of one lemon, to which add nearly 
a cup of sugar, and a piece of butter half the size of an egg; 



lyo TJie Other. Way. 

into one cup of boiling water stir one tablespoonful of corn 
starch beaten with the yolks of two eggs; bake with an under 
crust, and when done spread over the top the whites, beaten 
stiflf, with a little powdered sugar, and return to the oven to 
brown. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

Open the eyes of a cocoa-nut with a pointed knife or gimlet, 
and pour out the milk into a cup; break the shell, take out the 
meat and grate it fine. Stir the same weight of sugar and of the 
grated nut together; beat four eggs, the whites and yolks sepa- 
rately, to a stifT foam; mix one cup of cream and the milk of the 
cocoa-nut with the sugar and nut, then add the eggs and a few 
drops of orange or lemon extract. Line deep pie-tins with a 
nice crust, fill them with the custard, and bake carefully one-half 
an hour. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Stew rhubarb; add the grated rind and juice of a lemon, the 
well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and sweeten with white sugar; 
line pie-tins with a good crust, and fill with the rhubarb; bake 
until the crust is brown; beat the whites to a stiflf froth; it will 
be necessary to add three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; 
flavor with vanilla, and spread over the tops of the pies; return 
to the oven until of a light brown. The eggs and lemon given 
are enough for two pies. 



FRUIT PIE. 

Line a soup plate with a rich paste, and spread with a layer 
of strawberry or raspberry preserves; over which sprinkle two 
tablespoonfuls of finely-chopped almonds (blanched of course) 
and one-half ounce of candied lemon peel cut into shreds. 
Then mix the following ingredients: one-half pound white 
sugar, one-quarter pound butter, melted, four yolks and two 



TJie Other Way. 171 

whites of eggs, and a few drops of almond essence. Beat well 
together and pour the mixture into the soup plate over the 
preserves, etc. Bake in a moderately warm oven. When cold, 
sprinkle or sift a little powdered sugar over the top. A little 
cream eaten with it is a g**eat addition. 



TARTS. 

Use the best of pufT paste; roll it out a little thicker than for 
pie-crust, and cut with a large biscuit-cutter twice as many as 
you intend to have tarts; then cut out of half of them a small 
round in the center, which will leave a circular rim of crust; lift 
this up carefully and lay on the large pieces; bake in pans, and 
fill with any kind of preserves, jam, or jelly. 



PUMPKIN PIE. 

1. Cut the pumpkin into large pieces, and bake with the 
skins on; when done scoop out the pulp, add to it two quarts 
of milk, four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of ginger, two table- 
spoonfuls of cinnamon, and one teaspoonful of salt; sugar to 
taste. 

2. A small pumpkin baked; scoop out the pulp, and add two 
quarts of milk, sugar to taste, one-half cup of molasses, table- 
spoonful of salt, and ginger and cinnamon to taste. 



MARLBOROUGH PIE. 

Six tart apples, six ounces of sugar, six ounces of butter or 
thick cream, six eggs, the grated peel of one lemon, and one- 
half ihe juice; grate the apples after paring and coring them, 
stir together the butter and sugar as for cake, then add the other 
ingredients, and bake in a rich under-paste only. 



172 Ihe Other Way. 

PEACH PIE. 

Line a deep dish with soda-biscuit dough, or pie-crust rolled 
one-fourth of an inch thick, fill with peaches pared, sprinkled 
with sugar and a little flour, and, if not too juicy, add about two 
tablespoonfuJs of water, put on the upper crust, secure the 
edges, and bake. Eat with cream. 

CREAM TARTLETS. 

Make a paste with the white of one and the yolks of three 
eggs, one ounce of sugar, one ounce of butter, a pinch of salt, 
and flour sufficient to make into a paste; work it lightly; roll out 
to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, line some patty-pans 
with it. fill with uncooked rice, and bake in a moderate oven 
until done; remove the rice, fill with jam or preserves, and on 
top of all place a spoonful of whipped cream. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

.Melt one-half cup of butter in one cup of hot water, and while 
boiling, beat in one cup of flour, then take ofT the gas stove and 
cool; when cool, stir in three eggs, one at a time, without beat- 
ing; drop on tins quickly, and bake about twenty-five minutes 
in a moderate oven. 

For the cream: — Half a pint of milk, one egg, three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, two large teaspoonfuls of flour; boil as you 
would any mock cream, and flavor with lemon. When baked, 
open the side of each puff, and fill with cream. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

One pint of water, one-half cup of lard, one-half cup of flour. 
Boil the water and lard together and stir in the flour while boil- 
ing. Let it cool and add five eggs well beaten. Drop on tin 
sheets, bake twenty minutes. When cold, open and put in filling. 



The Other Way. 173 

FILLING. 

One cup of flour, two cups of sugar, one pint 0%- milk, four 
n-'g^s, boil milk, beat flour, sugar and eggs together and stir into 
the milk while boiJing. Flavor to taste. 

A^FLOATING ISLAND OF APPLES. 

Bake or scald nine large apples; when cold, pare them and 
pulp them through a sieve. Beat up this pulp with sugar, and 
add to it the whites of five eggs previously beaten up with a 
half teaspconful of rose water. Mix this into the pulp a little at 
a time, and beat it until quite light. Heap it upon a dish, with 
a rich custard oi jelly round it. 

APPLE MERINGUE. 

Pare and core twelve apples, fill them with butter and sugar 
alternating the butter and sugar till the hole left from the core 
is filled; put a little water in the pan, and bake upon the top 
•of the stove, with a cover over them to preserve their whiteness. 

Make a very soft custard o^f the yolks of four eggs, and pour 
■over the apples When serving them. Make the meringue of the 
whites of the four eggs, pour over the apples, and put in the 
■oven a few moments to brown. 

Cakes 

WHITE CAKE. 

Three-fourths cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup of flour, 
one cup milk, one cup flour, ten eggs (whites), one cup flour, 
two scant teaspoons baking powder. In measuring the flour 
scant each cup and sift. One teaspoonful baking powder. 



174 ^/^^ Othei' Way. 

Cream the butter and sugar by hand until it is a white cream 
very soft, and thin, then add one cup flour, mix well, then the 
milk, anothc cup of flour, then the whites of the eggs, then 
another cup flour, with two scant teaspoons baking powder, 
and one teaspoon flavoring. Bake in a moderate oven, before 
putting the cake in be sure your oven is right, so as not to open 
the oven door until the cake is nearly done, as opening the door 
often is apt to fpoil the cake making it heavy. This is also the 
case with most ioaf cakes, many of them are spoiled by opening 
the oven to often while they are baking. 



BANANA LAYER CAKE. 

One cup milk, one cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups 
flour, six eggs. Leave the whites of three eggs for the icing 
and filling, to which add a cup of powdered sugar. Stir in the 
banana, but do not put any on the top of the cake. 



CREAM CAKE. 

Four eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately), one cup and 
a half of sugar, seven tablespoons melted butter, three cups 
flour, two teaspoons baking powder. Bake in two layer tins, in 
a hot oven. 

FILLING FOR CAKE. 

One teacup of milk, one tablespoon corn starch, one t^^^ 
quarter cup of sugar. When the milk is boiling add the corn 
starch, dissolved in a little milk, when it thickens remove from 
the stove, and add t^Z, sugar and flavor. 

FIG CAKE. 

One and a hall cups sugar, two cups flour, two-thirds cup 
milk, half cup butler, two eggs, two teaspoons baking powder. 



The Other Way. 175 

C'-esm butter and sugar together, then add the eggs well beaten, 
next the milk and a teaspoonful flavoring extract, then the 
flour with the baking powder sifed into it. 



FOR FILLING. 

Half pound figs, half cup water, quarter cup sugar. Let figs, 
water and sugar boil four or five minutes, not too hard, and 
stir until well mixed, then spread between the layers of the 
cake, but do not put any on the top. 



GINGERBREAD. 

Six cups flour, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, one cup but- 
ter, four eggs, two tablespoons ginger, two teaspoons saleratus, 
one cup milk (sour). Beat very light and bake in a hot oven. 

COCOANUT LAYER CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, six eggs, 
one cup milk. Leave the whites of three eggs for the icing and 
filling, to which add a cup of powdered sugar, stir in the co- 
coanut. For the top of cake make it stififer with cocoanut than 
for layers, and sprinkle a little over the top. 

NUT CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, four eggs, 
one cup milk. Cream the butter and sugar well then add the 
eggs and milk and lastly the flour, into which sift two teaspoons 
of baking powder. Bake in jelly tins. For the filling, get a 
pound of English walnuts, take out thirty halves, leaving them 
whole for top of cake, take the remainder of nuts, chop them 
fine and mix with icing for layers. Use the directions given 
for icing for cocoanut cake. 



176 The Other Way. 

PLAIN CAKE. 

Half cup butter, one cup sugar, half cup milk, two eggs, one 
heaping teaspoon baking powder. Flavor with vanilla. 
Cream butter and sugar well, then add the eggs well beaten, 
then the milk and lastly two cups flour. Bake in a moderate 
oven. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

Half cup butter, two cups sugar, four eggs, half cup almonds, 
blanched by pouring hot water on them until skin is easily re- 
moved, and then cut in fine shreds, half teaspoon extract bitter 
almond, one pint flour, one and a half teaspoon baking pow- 
der, one glass brandy, half cup milk. Rub butter and sugar 
to smooth white cream; add eggs one at a time, beating three 
or four minutes between each. Sift flour and powder together; 
add to butter, and other ingredients. Bake carefully in rather 
hot oven twenty minutes, in a fluted mould. 



CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, butter size of an t^z^ two 
teaspoons baking powder, one egg, two cups of flour. Cream 
butter and sugar together then add the ^z^ well beaten, next the 
milk, then the flour with the baking powder sifted into it. Bake 
in a hot oven, and when cold fill with the following: One pint 
of milk, one tablespoon butter, one cup sugar, half cup grated 
chocolate, yolks of three eggs, one teaspoonful vanilla. 
Bring the milk to a boil, stir in the chocolate, 
the sugar and corn starch, boil five minutes, take from the fire. 
Add the eggs stirring all the time; return to the fire to set the 
eggs, then add the butter and vanilla. 



The Other Way. 177 

LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

Four eggs, two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, five ounces of 
butter, three cups of flour, three heaping spoonfuls of baking 
powder. Flavor to taste. 

FILLING. 

One cup of sugar, one ^^z, butter the size of a walnut, four 
tablespoonfuls of cold water. Grated rind and juice of two 
lemons. Stir butter and sugar together and cook on back of 
range. 

NUT DROPS. 

Two heaping cups of hickory nuts, two cups sugar, one cup 
flour, two tablespoonfuls of cold water, two small or one large 
t^%. Drop on buttered pan. Do not ma^h them as they will 
spread while baking. 

CREAM CAKE. 

One teacupful of sugar, two eggs, one and half cups of 
flour, half cup milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Cream butter and sugar together until very light, then add eggs, 
milk and flour; sift the baking powder into the flour. 

CUSTARD FOR FILLING. 

Two-thirds of a pint of milk, one t^Zy oi^e tablespoonful of 
corn starch, half cup sugar, a pinch of salt and flavor to taste. 

GOLDEN CAKE. 

One and a half cups of flour, one teaspoon baking powder 
three-quarter cup of butter, one cup sugar, yolks of eight eggs, 
half cup sweet milk. Flavor to taste. Cream the butter and 



178 The Other Way. 

sugar together, then add the eggs beaten very light. Bake in 
a moderate oven. 

COOKIES. 

One cup white sugar, one-third cup butter, one egg, two 
tablespoons milk or cream, one teaspoon baking powder. 
Cream butter and sugar well together then add the t^z and 
milk, sift the baking powder into a small quantity of the flour 
and stir in, add flour enough to make quite stiff and roll very 
thin. Cut with a cake cutter, and bake in a hot oven. 

CHOCOLATE WAFERS. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter three cups of flour, four 
eggs, two cups grated chocolate, one teaspoon cream-tartar, half 
teaspoon soda, half cup milk. Baking powder can be substituted 
for the cream-tartar and soda, using two teaspoons of the bak- 
ing powder. Cream butter and sugar well, then add the eggs 
and milk, then the grated chocolate. The soda, cream-tartar 
and salt are to be sifted with the flour. Put on a well-floured 
pastry board and roll thin. Bake in a hot oven. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup of molasses, half cup of sugar, half cup of butter, half 
cup of boiling water, one teaspoon soda, half teaspoon cloves, 
half teaspoon ginger, flour enough to roll, but leave the dough 
as soft as you can handle it. Beat the molasses. sui;,ar and butter 
well together, then add the other ingredients. Roll as thin as 
possible, and bake in a very hot oven. 

BRANDY SNAPS. 

Quarter pound of butter, one pound of molasses, one pound 
of flour one teaspoonful ginger, one teaspoorful of mace, one 



The Other Way, 179 

teaspoonful of cloves, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, quarter of 
a glass of brandy. Beat all well together, roll very thin and 
bake in a hot oven. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of eggs, one pound of sugar, 
three-quarters pound of butter, one and one-half pounds 
raisins, half pound blanched almonds chopped fine, one tea- 
spoonful of ground cloves, one teaspoon of ground cinnamon, 
one teaspoon of nutmeg. Cream the butter and sugar well, 
beat the eggs separately adding tlie whites last. Flour the 
fruit well before putting it in. Bake in a moderate oven. 

FILLING FOR CREAM CAKE. 

Bring the milk to a boil with the sugar, add the corn starch 
dissolved in a little water, as soon as it boils take from the fire; 
beat in the egg yelks; return to the fire two minutes to set the 
^ZZ yelks, add the butter. When cold spread beween the 
cake which has already been prepared. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One and a half cup of sugar, one cup of sour milk, two eggs, 
small piece of butter, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a little 
salt and a little nutmeg, fiour enough just to make dough stifT 
enough to roll out. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cup very strong coflfee, one cup butter, two cups sugar, 
three eggs, one and a half pints flour, one teaspoon baking pow- 
der, one cup of raisins seeded, one and a half lbs. currants, one- 
half cup milk, little allspice, nutmeg and cinnamon. Cream the 
butter and sugar together, then add the coffee and milk, next 
+he eggs beaten very light, then the flour with the baking pow- 



i8o. The Other Way. 

der, with the flour sifted in it, lastly the fruit well dredged in 
flour. Bake in a moderate oven, with the gas turned down 
about one-half. 

BATH BUNS. 

Half-cup butter, one and a half cups sugar, two eggs, one and 
a half teaspoons baking powder, half-cup candied lemon peel, 
cut in small thin slices, one and a half pints flour, half-pint ilk. 
Rub the butter and sugar together to a smooth light cream, add 
the eggs, beat a few minutes longer; then add the flour, with 
the powder sifted in it, then the lemon peel and milk. Mix into 
a moderately firm batter. Lay greased muffin rings on a greased 
baking tin, and put a large spoonful into each. Sift sugar on 
mem, and bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Soak a cupful of best tapioca in a quart of milk over night. 
Next morning stir thoroughly until dissolved. Add one-half 
teaspoonful salt, one beaten egg, one teaspoonful baking pov/- 
der. Stir in a pint cf fltiii to a thick batter. Bake v<x\ a not 
giindle. 

INDIAN PANCAKES. 

One pint of Indian meal, one teaspoonful salt, mixed with 
enough boiling water to make a little thinner than mush. When, 
cool add the yolks of four eggs, half a cup of flour sifted with 
three teaspoons baking powder, enough sweet milk to make bat- 
ter as for griddle cakes, and the beaten whites of four eggs added 
just before baking. 



The Other Way. 



i8i 




A Handy Heater for Batirooms, for Bedrooms— for any room 



l82 



The Otke?' Way, 




For Your Halls 



The Other Way. 183 



Ice Cream 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

Scald a pint of new milk, and add gradually a cup and a half 
cf sugar, two beaten eggs, and two-thirds of a cup of grated 
chocolate rubbed sincolh in a little milk; beat and set on the 
gas stove until th'ck, stirring continually; take ofT and add table- 
spoonful of dissolved gelatine; when cold put into the freezer; 
as it begins to set add two cups of cream, and two cups of cream 
whipped to a froth. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. 

Squeeze any quantity of lemons desired; make the juice thick 
with sugar; stir it into cream, allowing nearly three quarts to a 
dozen lemons, and f'-ecze. 

LEMON ICE. 

One gallon of water and four pounds of sugar, well boiled and 
skimmed; when cold, add the juice of a dozen lemons, and the 
sliced rind of eight, and let them iiifuse an hour; strain into 
the freezer without pressing, and stir in lightly the well-beaten 
whites of twelve eggs. 

ORANGE ICE. 

Boil a cup and a. half of sugar in a quart. of water,, skimming 
when necessary; when cold add the juice of half a dozen or- 
anges;. steep the rinds in a little water^ and strain into the rest; 
add the rind and juice of a lemon, strain into the freezer and 
freeze like ice cream. 



r84 The Other Way. 

PEACHES AND CREAM FROZEN. 

Peel and quarter the peaches; mix with sugar and cream; line 
a Charlotte mold with some of the quarters and fill; freeze solid. 
Line a mold with ice cream, and fill the center with berries or 
sliced fruit; cover with ice cream; cover closely and pack in ice 
for half an hour. The fruit must not be frozen. 

LEMON ICE. 

Six lemons — juice of all. and grated peel of three, one large 
sweet orange — juice and rind, one pint of water, one pint of su- 
gar. Squeeze out every drop of juice, and steep in the rind of 
orange and lemons one hour. Strain, squeezing the bag dry; 
mix in the sugar, and then the water. Stir until dissolved, and 
freeze by turning in a freezer — opening three times to beat all 
up together. 

ORANGE ICE. 

Six oranges — juice of all, and grated peel of three, two lemons 
— the juice only, one pint of sugar dissolved in one pint of water. 
Prepare and freeze as you vc uld lemon ice. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

( ne quart of cream, one pint milk, two cups sugar, two eggs 
beaten very light, five tablespoonfuls chocolate rubbed smooth 
in a littie milk. Heat the milk almost to boiling, and pour, by 
degrees, in with the beaten ^^^ and sugar. Stir in the chocolate, 
beat well three minutes, and return to the inner kettle. Heat 
until it thickens well, stirring constantly; take from the fire and 
set aside to cool. Many think a little vanilla an improvement- 
When the custard i.s cold, beat in the cream, and pour into the 
freezer. 



The Other Way. 185 

ICE CREAM. 

Two f^uarts ci milk, one pint of cream, one pint of sugar, six 
eggs. Flavor to t£*sle and freeze. 

TUTTI FRUTTI ICE CREAM. 

One pint of milk, cr.e quart of cream, yolks of five eggs — 
beaten light with the sugar, three cups of sugar, one lemon — 
juice and grated peel, one glass of pale sherry, and one-half lb. 
crystallized fruits, chopped. Heat the milk almost to boiling; 
pour by degrees over the eggs and sugar, beating all together 
well. Return to the fire, and boil ten minutes, or until set into 
a good cusii.rd. When cold, beat in the cream, and half-freeze 
before you ?tir in the crystallized fruit — peaches, apricots, cher- 
ries, limes, etc., chopped very fine. Beat in with these the 
lemon and wine; cover again, and freeze hard. In all fruit ice 
creams the beating of the custard should be very hard and thor- 
ough, if you would have them smooth. 

FROZEN CUSTARD WITH THE FRUIT FROZEN IN. 

One quart of milk, one quart of cream, six eggs, and three 
cups of sugar beaten up with the yolks, one pint fresh peaches, 
cut up small, or fresh ripe berries. Heat the quart of milk al- 
most to boiling, and add gradually to the beaten yolks and su- 
?"ar. Whip in the frothed whites, return to the custard kettle, 
and stir until it is a thick, soft custard. Let it get perfectly cold, 
beat in the cream and freeze. If you let it freeze itself, stir in 
the fruit after the second beating; if you turn the freezer, when 
the cuslard is like congealed mush. 

ICE CREAM. 

Two cans condensed milk, one pint of cream, one-half cup 
sugar, five eggs, one can twice filled with skimmed milk or cold 
water; pour into the tin and freeze. 



1 86 



The Other Way. 



ITALIAN CREAM. 

Two pints of cream, two cups of sugar, two lemons — juice and 
grated peel, two tablespoonfuls of brandy. Sweeten the cream 
and heat in tbe lemons gradually not to curdle it; add the brandy 
and freeze in a patent freezer, or by turning quickly. In turn- 
ing the freezer, open twice during the operation,to stir and beat 
the contents smooth. 

RASPBERRY OR STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

One quart of ripe sweet berries, one pound sugar, one quart 
fresh cream. Scatter half the sugar over the berries and let 
them stand three hours. Press and mash them, and strain them 
through a thin muslin bag. Add the rest of the sugar, and when 
dissolved beat in the cream little by little. Freeze rapidly, op- 
ening the freezer (if it is not a patent one) several times to beat 
and stir. 




TTHE NEXT 

THING TO DO 



r 



After reading this book is to call and see 
the interesting variety of labor and money 
saving gas appliances at the 

STOVK DKF^ARTIVIKNT 
415 F*ost Street 

SAN KRANCISCO 



^ 



"Sperry's" 
''Drifted Snow" 
''Golden Gate" 

"TnRKK CKIvKBRAXED 
BRANDS THAT NIAKE 




GOOD BREAD 



Why 



Pay high prices for Baking Powder 
when one equally good in every 
respect can be obtained at your 
Grocers for less than half the price 



25 Ounces 



FOR 



25 Cents 



This is the price of " K. C." Baking 
Powder, every can of which is 
guaranteed by the manufacturer. 
As an evidence of the wholesomeness 
and strength of 

*'K. C." BAKING POWDER 

IT HAS JUST 

RECEIVED THE GOLD HEDAL 



the highest award, over all competitors, at 
the recent Trans-Mississippi Exhibition 
held in Omaha. Beware of all imitations 
and substitutes, and insist upon having the 
original " K. C." which is manufactured 
only by 



JAQUES MANUFACTURING CO, 

CHICAGO, ILL. 



IF YOU WANT GOOD 



^=:^4is^ 




Ginger Bread 

Boston 
Brown Bread 

Boston 
Baked Beans 

...USE... 

PeilGaQ 




It has the richest 
flavor and is the 
most sugary . . . 
molasses that comes 
from Louisiana . . 

FOR SALE IN CANS 
ONLY 



CANNED BY 



Pacific Coast Syrup Co. 



713-719 Sansome St. 



San Francisco, Cal. 



F. M. PERSINGER 

{Succeeding Marshall (5" Jones) 



o n o 
oflo 

oOo 
oQ o 






Rooms 115 and 117 



HIGH GRADE 


I35.00 SUITS ON 


OF WORK AT 


^^ $r.oo WEEKLY 


REASONABLE 


(^ PAYMENTS A 


PRICES 


SPECIALTY 


THE 


SARTORIAN 



Brooks-Follis 
Electric Corporation 



Electrical Supplies 
and Construction 



523-52B MISSION STREET 

TEL. MAIN 861 SAIST FRANCISCO, CAL. 



* i 




appreciating the modern effort to minister 
to their fellow-men in times of bereave- 
ment, have completely rebuilt and refitted 
their premises at 2429 Mission Street, pro- 
viding the most elegant and convenient 
Offices, Parlors and Mortuary Chapel on the 
Coast; and they take this means of 
respectfully inviting you to call and inspect 
their improvements, assuring you that any 
member of the Company will take pleasure 
in showing you through the apartments, 
and pointing out their adaptation to the 
purposes of the establishment. 
Respectfully, 

H. E. SNOOK 
G. W. KEELER 
G. P. PRECHTEL 



FIRE MARINE 

CaniiEiBrcial Unipn 

Assurance Cninpany^ Ld. 

OF LONDON 

Total Cash Assets .... ^2^,730,000.00 

Alliance 

Assurance CDinpany 

OF LONDON 

Total Cash Assets .... $22,643,^41.00 



Pacific Coast Branch 
ALLIANCE BLDG., 416-418 CALIFORNIA ST. 

SAN FRANCISCO, CAL. 

C. F. MULLINS, Manager 



U141 














♦' 




•.%^«V,o* *o.-*7«^.' -v' ">^ *i?.^i' .O^- 








c-^ 



















. ^ - 



, ^^-^^ '°^.'. /\. \^-' ^'^^ 




