
BOSTON 
PUBLIC 
LIBRARY 




^:^ 



.^^^ 




The 

Gorham 

Chafing Dijh 

Book 



^ 



Gorham Mfg. Co. 

.. Silversmiths .. 

Broadway ^ iqth St. -\j ri^ i 

o i\/r J T JMew 1 ork 

23 Mataen Ljane 





. QORHAM 


MFG 


. CO. 






COPYRIGHTED 


1899 




BY 


LIVERMORE 


& KNIGHT 


CO. 




PROVIDENCE, 


R. ,. 






^HFj previous publications on the chafing dish issued 
by the Gorham Co., Silversmiths, have met with 
such universal favor that it has seemed wise to publish 
a third book. This is probably the most complete com- 
pilation of simple recipes ever printed. The aim has 
been to embody in these recipes only such ingredients as 
would be found in the average well-regulated household; 
in fact many of the recipes mentioned herein are sim- 
plicity itself as far as their demand on the larder is 
concerned. 

The demand for chafing dishes has grown to very 
large proportions and there are good reasons for this. 
The convenience of the chafing dishy the palatableness ofi 
the dishes produced — everything hot^ and right from the 
fire to the plate — the opportunity for showing one's grace 
and ability in cooking and serving, the possibility of little 
experiments and changes in conditions and proportions, 
the personality and interest attaching to the actual 
culinary operations, all these combine to make the chafing 
dish a favorite utensil in every family. 




Much time will be saved and confusion prevented by 
filling the lamp before the chafing dish is placed before the 
host or hostess, and by having all necessary materials on 
the table before being seated. 

Heat the milk, stock or water if possible, before using 
in the chafing dish. 

Never allow the prepared dishes to boil after eggs are 
added. 

In the recipes given, the seasoning should be measured 
level. 

The butter and flour should be measured rounded like 
the bowl of a spoon. 

The cup used for measuring should hold one-half pint. 

The butter may be made into balls, one or two balls 
representing a rounded tablespoonful ; these can be arranged 
on an attractive dish at the right. 

The cream, stock or gravy used, should be measured 
and put in a small pitcher at the left. Catsups, wine and 
large materials should also be arranged as daintily as possi- 
ble at the left. 

The heat from different lamps in chafing dishes varies 
somewhat and judgment must be used as to the time given 
in these recipes. 

When using the chafing dish to saute or fry do not 
use the hot water dish, and in all other cases do not use it 
unless there is danger of burning the ingredients. The hot 
water dish may be used with water to keep all dishes hot 
after they are prepared. 




Scrambled Eggs 



6 eggs. 

I saltspoonflil pepper. 

y^ teaspoonful salt. 



6 tablespoonfals milk. 
I tablespoonful butter. 



Beat the eggs slightly with a fork ; add the salt, pep- 
per and milk. Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the 
eggs, stirring all the time till the egg is firm but soft. Serve 
on a hot platter. 



Scrambled Eggs with Mushrooms. 



I teaspoonful salt. 

I saltspoonflil pepper. 

I tablespoonful sherry if liked. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

y^ can mushrooms. 

6 eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls cream. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, put in the mush- 
rooms, which have been previously sliced ; when heated 
add the eggs, well beaten, and the cream. Cook until the 
proper consistency, stirring all the time. Season and serve. 
If the sherry is desired, put in before adding the eggs. 



Scrambled Eggs with "Tomatoes 

I tablespoonful butter. 6 tablespoonfiils of solid part of 

6 eggs. canned tomatoes. 

4 tablespoonfiils cream or milk. i ceaspoonfiil salt. 

^ teaspoonfiil paprika. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish and when hot put 
in the eggs, which have been slightly beaten with the 
cream ; when the eggs begin to thicken, put in the 
tomatoes, and cook to the proper consistency, stirring all 
the time. Season and serve. 

Asparagus points may be used in place of tomatoes. 



Scrambled Eggs with Artichoke Hearts 

6 eggs. I tablespoonfiil butter. 

3 canned artichoke hearts. Salt. 

4 tablespoonfiils cream. Pepper. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the artichoke 
hearts previously cut into dice pieces ; when heated put in 
the beaten eggs with the cream. Cook until smooth and 
thick, stirring all the time. Season to taste and serve. 



Scrambled Eggs with Sausage 

6 eggs. 1 tablespoonfiil butter. 

2 sausages. 4 tablespoonfiils milk or cream. 

Cook the sausage in the chafing dish until done, pour 
off all the fat and cut the sausage into small pieces. Add 
the butter, the eggs well beaten, and the milk. Mix with 
the sausage, stir constantly, and cook until thick and smooth. 
Season to taste and serve. 



10 



Scrambled Eggs with Oysters 

6 eggs. I tablespoonfiil butter. 

12 oysters. Toast. 

Anchovy paste. 

Cut the oysters In moderately fine pieces. Beat the 
eggs slightly. Rub the bottom of the chafing dish with 
anchovy paste, put in the butter, and when melted add the 
the eggs. Stir until the eggs begin to thicken, put in the 
oysters and stir until cooked. Serve on toast lightly spread 
with anchovy paste. 

The anchovy paste may be omitted if desired. 



Eggs with Anchovies 

6 eggs. I tablespoonful butter. 

I dozen anchovies. Speck of cayenne. 

6 tablespoonfuls milk. Buttered toast. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the milk and 
the beaten eggs. When, they begin to thicken put in the 
anchovies, skinned and chopped, add the cayenne, and cook 
until the mixture is the consistency of scrambled eggs. 
Serve on buttered toast. 



Eggs with Sardines 

6 eggs. 2 tablespoonfiils lemon juice. 

Small box sardines. ^ teaspoonflil salt. 

I tablespoonful butter. Speck of cayenne. 

Remove the skin and bones from the sardines, and flake 
them with a fork. Melt the butter in the chafing dish, put 
in the sardines, and when they are heated, add the eggs 
slightly beaten, and cook until a thick, smooth mass is 
formed ; then add lemon juice, salt and cayenne. 



IX 



Eggs with Melted Cheese 

1 ounce Parmesan cheese. I saltspoonfiil nutmeg. 

2 tablespoonfuls white wine. I tablespoonfiil butter. 
I teaspoonfiil chopped parsley. 6 eggs. 

I saltspoonfiil pepper. 

Grate the cheese and put it into the chafing dish, adding 
the wine, parsley, pepper, nutmeg and butter. Stir well 
while cooking, and as the cheese melts, break in the eggs ; 
cook five minutes longer. Serve very hot. 



Eggs with Macaroni 



i^ cupful milk. 


2 eggs. 


I tablespoonfial butter. 


y^ teaspoonfiil salt. 


^ cupfiil canned mushrooms. 


I saltspoonful pepper. 


I cupful cold boiled macaroni. 





Heat the milk in the chafing dish ; add the butter, the 
mushrooms cut fine, and the macaroni ; then the eggs, 
which have been beaten. Stir over boiling water ten 
minutes, and season. 



Curried Eggs 



6 hard boiled eggs. y^ tablespoonfiil curry powder. 

1 pint cream or milk. y^ saltspoonful pepper. 

2 tablespoonfiils butter. l teaspoonfiil salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. A few drops onion juice. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour and 
curry powder, add the cream gradually, stirring until smooth. 
Add the salt, pepper and onion juice. Quarter the eggs, 
and put these in the sauce ; simmer three minutes. Serve 
hot with toast. 



12 



Eggs a la Newburg 

6 hard boiled eggs. Y^ teaspoonflil salt. 

I tablespoonflil butter. A dash of cayenne. 

I tablespoonflil flour. 2 tablespoonflils sherry. 

1 cupful milk. Yolks of two eggs. 

Remove the shells from the hard boiled eggs ; cut the 
eggs into halves ; arrange them on a warm dish, white side 
up. Put the butter in the chafing dish ; when melted, stir 
in the flour, mix well, add the milk gradually, stirring con- 
stantly. When smooth add the salt, cayenne and sherry. 
Add the beaten yolks of the eggs. Pour the sauce around 
the eggs and serve at once. 

Eggs a la Caracas 

i^ pound shaved dried beef. Speck cayenne. 

1 cupful tomatoes. Speck cinnamon. 

2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese. 2 tablespoonfiils butter. 
Few drops of onion juice. 4 eggs. 

Cover the beef with boiling water, let it stand ten 
minutes, drain, and add to it the butter previously melted 
in the chafing dish, stir a moment, then add the tomatoes, 
cheese, onion juice, cinnamon and cayenne. When heated, 
add eggs well beaten. Cook until the eggs are of a creamy 
consistency, stirring all the time. 

Fried Eggs 

Eggs. Ham drippings or lard. 

Melt a sufficient quantity of ham drippings or lard in the 
chafing-dish ; when drippings are hot, break four eggs in a 
soup plate, being careful to keep yolks whole, and put them 
gently into the chafing dish. Dip the fat over them to cook 
them on top. Serve when the white of the eggs is firm. 

'3 



French Omelet 

6 eggs. Salt. 

4 tablespoonfuls warm water. Pepper. 

Butter. 

Beat the eggs slightly. Add the warm water and one 
teaspoonful of butter. Put one tablespoonful butter in the 
chafing dish. When hot, pour in the eggs. When the 
edges are set, with a limber knife lift the edge, and let the 
uncooked ^^^ run under. When firm, let It brown on the 
bottom. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over the top. 
Fold over, and turn gently on to a heated platter. 

Cheese Omelet 

1 tablespoonful butter. ^ teaspoonful salt. 

6 eggs. I saltspoonful pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls grated Swiss cheese. Parmesan cheese. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish. Beat the eggs 
thoroughly, adding the Swiss cheese, salt and pepper. Pour 
the whole into the chafing dish and cook like the French 
omelet ; turn it on a hot dish, and sprinkle the top lightly 
with a little Parmesan cheese. 



T'omato Omelet 



I 



eggs. I tablespoonful butter, 

teaspoonful salt. y^ pint stewed tomotoes. 

saltspoonful pepper. 



Break the eggs in a bowl, season them with the salt and 
pepper, and beat thoroughly for four minutes. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, then pour into it the 
stewed tomatoes, drained as dry as possible. Cook for two 
minutes, then spread the beaten eggs over the mixture, and 
with a fork mix the whole gently for three minutes ; let it 

H 



rest for one minute. Fold over the two opposite sides, 
turn carefully on to a hot dish, and serve. 

Salt Cod Omelet 

6 eggs. Butter. 

4 tablespoonfuls warm water. 4 tablespoonfiils shredded codfish. 
I saltspoonful pepper. 

Beat the eggs without separating; add to them the 
shredded codfish, water and pepper. Melt the butter in an 
omelet pan, add the mixture, cook and fold over as in the 
preceding recipe. 

Lobster Omelet 

1^ pound lobster meat. 6 eggs. 

I tablespoonful white wine. ^ teaspoonful salt. 

^ tablespoonful butter. i saltspoonful pepper. 

^ cupfiil milk or cream. 

Previously cut the lobster into small pieces ; cook it 
with the butter, wine and milk until heated through, and 
keep hot until wanted. 

Make an omelet in the chafing dish with the eggs, pep- 
per and salt, and when sufficiently cooked drain the lobster 
and place in centre of omelet. Fold over opposite sides. 
Turn omelet on a hot platter. Pour around it the sauce 
from which the lobster was drained, and serve. 

Sardine Omelet 

5 sardines, i saltspoonful salt. 

I tablespoonful butter. i saltspoonfiil pepper. 

6 eggs. 

Melt the butter In the chafing dish. Carefully skin 
the sardines, put three of them in the chafing dish with 
the butter ; cook for two minutes. 

Beat the eggs in a bowl, season with salt and pepper, 
add them to the sardines in the chafing dish ; make an 

15 



omelet as in the preceding recipe, fold over one side, place 
the two remaining sardines in the centre, fold the other side 
over, turn on a hot dish, and serve. 

The CurP s Omellette a la Savarin 



Roes of two carp. 

A piece of fresh tunny. 

A little minced shallot. 


Parsley. 
Chives. 
Lemon. 


2 tablespoonfuls butter. 


12 eggs. 



Carefully bleach the roes, chop them with the tunny 
and shallot Throw them in a saucepan with one table- 
spoonful butter, and stir well till the butter is melted. In 
an oval dish mix separately the remainder of the butter with 
parsley and chives, squeezing over it the juice of the lemon. 
Make an omelet of the eggs, pouring in the roes and 
tunny, mix well and cook. Spread it out on the oval dish, 
and serve up to be eaten at once. 



Orange Omelet 



Grated rind of one orange. i tablespoonfiil powdered sugar. 

3 tablespoonfuls of the juice. i tablespoonful butter. 

3 eggs- 
Separate the whites and yolks of the eggs. 
To the well beaten yolks add sugar, rind and juice. 
Beat the whites of the eggs very stiff and fold (not beat or 
stir) into this. Melt the butter in the chafing dish and 
when hot turn into it the mixture. Cook very carefully 
until a delicate brown on the bottom, then invert the serving 
plate on top of this, inverting the whole again so that the 
serving plate will be underneath, remove the chafing dish 
carefully. Cover the omelet with powdered sugar and score 
it with a clean, red hot poker so that the sugar will caramel. 
This will be found very delicate if made right. ■ 

i6 



Sweet Omelet 

6 eggs. 6 teaspoonfiils powdered sugar. 

4 tablespoonfula warm water. 3 tablespoonfiils jam or jelly. 

Butter. 

Beat the eggs, add the sugar, warm water and one tea- 
spoonful butter. Put into the chafing dish one tablespoon- 
ful butter. When hot pour in the eggs ; shake until set 
on the bottom, then lift the edge with a limber knife, let 
the soft part run under. Put the jam in the centre. Fold 
over, turn on to a hot dish, and dredge with sugar. Glaze 
it with a hot shovel or salamander if liked. 

Omelet C'elestine 

6 eggs. 4 macaroons. 

4 tablespoonfiils warm water. 1 tablespoonful apple jelly. 

Butter. I cupful whipped cream. 

6 teaspoonfiils powdered sugar. 3 lady fingers. 

Pulverize the macaroons, adding the jelly and one table- 
spoonful of the whipped cream ; mix well. Make a sweet 
omelet as in the preceding recipe ; fold one side up, pour 
the mixture in the centre, fold the other side up, turn the 
omelet on a hot dish, sprinkle the top with powdered sugar. 
Decorate it with lady fingers cut in two and the remainder 
of the whipped cream. 

Halibut Steak 

Halibut steak. 1 tablespoonful water or milk. 

Salt. Flour. 

Pepper. Sliced lemon. 

1 egg. Butter or fat salt pork. 

Cut the steak about three-fourths of an inch thick and 
four inches square. Sprinkle them with salt and pepper, 
dip them in the beaten egg and water, lay them in the flour. 

17 



Put the butter or pork in the chafing dish and when hot 
saute the steaks in this over a moderate flame until brown 
and well cooked through. Serve sliced lemon with it. 

Curried Halibut 

2 cupfuls cold boiled or baked halibut. i teaspoonfiil curry powder. 

I tablespoonfiil butter. I teaspoonfiil salt. 

I tablespoonfiil flour. I teaspoonful minced onion. 

I cupflil milk. 2 tablespoonfiils lemon juice. 

^ cupflil cream. Speck cayenne. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish and when hot cook 
the onion in it. Add the curry-powder mixed with the 
flour ; when these bubble stir in the milk and cream grad- 
ually. Put in the fish, salt and cayenne ; when it is hot 
enough to serve add the lemon juice. Fresh cod may be 
used instead of halibut if desired. 

Smelts 

Smelts. Pepper. 

Indian meal. Salt pork. 

Salt. 

Carefully open the smelts at the gills, drawing each one 
between your finger and thumb, beginning at the tail. 
Wipe and drain them. Season the fish with salt and pep- 
per, and roll them in the meal. Cut the pork into strips, 
and put in the chafing dish and when hot drop in the smelts 
and fry brown. 

Smelts J Saute 

1 dozen smelts. i tablespoonfiil chopped parsley. 

2 tablespoonfiils butter or olive oil. Salt. 

I tablespoonfiil lemon juice. Pepper. 

Melt the butter or heat the oil in the chafing dish and 
when hot put in the smelts previously boned. Cook ten 
minutes turning once, add the lemon juice and parsley. 
Season to taste and serve. 



i8 



Brook "Trout 

Brook trout. Pepper. 

Indian meal. Butter or lard. 

Salt. Lemon or parsley. 

Clean the fish carefully and dredge with salt, pepper 
and meal. Put the butter in the chafing dish, and when 
hot put in the fish and fry until brown. Drain on paper 
and serve on a heated dish. Garnish with parsley or slices 
of lemon. Salt will not be needed when fried in butter. 



Fresh Codfish Saute 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. I teaspoonfiil lemon juice or vinegar. 

I pound fresh codfish. I teaspoonfiil chopped chives. 

Salt. I teaspoonfiil chopped parsley. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, and when hot put 
in the codfish, cut lengthwise, and boned ; sprinkle a little 
salt over the top, add lemon juice and vinegar. Cook 
thoroughly about fifteen minutes, being careful not to let it 
stick to the pan ; add the chopped chives and parsley. 
Season to taste and serve. 



Codfish Tonguei 



4 cold boiled codfish tongues. i tablespoonfiil flour. 

A clove of garlic. i pint light white wane. 

I tablespoonfiil butter. Salt. 

Bruise a clove of garlic, put it in the chafing dish with 
the butter, when melted add the flour, then the wine grad- 
ually, stirring all the time until smooth. Yut in the 
tongues, when hot add a little salt, and serve. 



19 



Salmon Strips 



Yi pound salt smoked salmon. Flour. 

Butter. 

Soak the salmon one hour in cold water, then boil 
gently twenty minutes. Drain, lay in very cold water for 
ten minutes, wipe dry, and with a sharp knife cut into strips 
about as long as your middle finger and half an inch wide. 

Melt some butter or olive oil in the chafing dish ; roll 
each strip of fish in flour, and fry until a nice brown. 
Serve hot and dry, piled like sticks, on a warm plate. 

Creamed Salmon 

3^ pound canned, or fresh cooked i cupful milk. 

salmon. ^ teaspoonful salt. 

I tablespoonful butter. Speck cayenne. 

I tablespoonful flour. z tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 

Break the fish into flakes with a fork, removing all 
bones, skin and liquid. Melt the butter in the chafing 
dish, stir in the flour, when smooth add the milk gradually, 
stirring constantly. Add the seasoning and salmon. When 
thoroughly heated serve. 

Thackeray^ s Bouillabaisse 

^ cupful olive oil. Bay-leaf, 

1 tablespoonful chopped onion. 3 slices of lemon. 

2 cloves. 1 pint tomato. 

6 peppercorns. I saltspoonful curry powder, 

I can salmon. 1^ cupful Rhine wine. 

Salt, Toast. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the onion, 
cloves and peppercorns, when browned put in the salmon 
with its liquid. Add a little salt, the bay leaf, lemon, 
tomato, curry powder, wine and water enough to cover the 



fish. Simmer for twenty minutes. Line a deep dish with 
toast, remove from the pan all seasoning in sight, then pour 
the contents of the pan over the toast. 

This dish was made famous by Thackeray. 

Fish with Anchovy Paste 

z cupfuls cold boiled flaked fish. 2 cupfiils milk. 

1 tablespoonfiil anchovy paste. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Yolks of three hard boiled eggs. I ^ tablespoonftils flour. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, add 
the hot milk gradually, until a smooth sauce is formed. 
Mash the yolks of the eggs and mix them with the anchovy 
paste, add it to the sauce, then add the fish. When thor- 
oughly heated serve. 

Sardines Saute 

Boneless sardines. Lemon juice. 

I tablespoonfiil butter. Toast. 

Cayenne. 

Select good-sized, boneless sardines, lay them on tissue- 
paper to free them from oil, and scrape off the skin, being 
careful not to break the fish. Melt the butter in the chafing 
dish, put in the fish and cook about four minutes, turning 
them once. When they are cooked squeeze over them a 
few drops of lemon juice, sprinkle very lightly with cayenne, 
and serve on toast. 

Sardines a la George Trimble Davidson 

Sardines. Pepper. 

I tablespoonfiil butter. Tabasco. 

Cheese. Cream. 

Salt. Toast. 

Have the sardines broiled and placed on individual 
pieces of toast, and keep hot until needed. Melt the butter 
in the chafing dish, add the fresh cheese cut fine, a Httle 



salt, pepper, and a dash of tabasco. Stir the melting cheese 
in one direction, adding a little cream, enough to make it 
the consistency of molasses. When the cheese is melted 
and creamy, pour it over the broiled sardines and serve hot. 

Creamed Sardines 

I small box sardines. i y^ cupfiils milk or cream. 

I tablespoonful butter. Speck of cayenne. 

I large tablespoonful flour. 2 tablespoonflils lemon juice. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, 
add the cream or milk gradually. When smooth add the 
sardines, previously skinned, boned and flaked with a fork. 
Heat, add cayenne and lemon juice. 

The beaten yolks of two eggs may be added if desired. 



Salt Codfish 



1 cup raw salt fish. i cupful cream or milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. Pepper. 
I tablespoonful flour. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the flour, when 
smooth add the cream gradually, stirring constantly. Add 
the codfish, which has been previously soaked in tepid water, 
and shredded. Let all simmer ten minutes, stirring often. 
Season with a little pepper. 

Shad Roe 

I pair shad roe. Flour. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. Juice of one-half lemon. 

Salt. I teaspoonfiil chopped parsley. 

Pepper. 

Before cooking in the chafing dish, cook the roe in 
boiling water twenty minutes, drain, dredge well with salt. 



pepper and flour. Melt the butter in the chafing dish, and 
when hot saute the roe in the butter, and just before serv- 
ing add the lemon juice and parsley. 

Eels 



Eel (two pounds). 
Salt. 


1 bay leaf. 

2 cloves. 


Flour. 

I tablespoonful butter. 

I tablespoonful chopped onion. 


Celery leaf. 
Hot water. 



Cut the eel into two-inch pieces, sprinkle with salt and 
let it stand five minutes in boiling water, drain, and when 
dry, dredge with flour. Put the butter in the chafing dish 
with the onion, bay leaf, cloves and celery leaf. Cook three 
minutes, add the eel and a pint of hot water. Cook from 
twelve to fifteen minutes, and serve. 

Fricasseed Eelsy (Thomas y. Murrey) 



2 pounds medium sized 
White wine vinegar. 
I stalk celery. 
I onion, quartered. 
I slice lemon. 


salt water eels. 


i^ pound salt pork. 

1 pint hot milk. 

2 saltspoonfuls salt. 
I teaspoonful flour. 
I dozen oysters. 


6 peppercorns. 




I tablespoonflil chopped onion, 



Cut the eels into two-inch pieces, sprinkle with salt, let 
them stand ten minutes, then scald them. Boil them one- 
half hour in two-thirds water and one-third white wine 
vinegar, with the celery, onion, lemon and peppercorns 
added. Remove from liquid when cool, and send to table. 
Cut the pork in dice and cook with the chopped onion in 
the chafing dish four minutes, add the milk, the cold eels, 
salt and the flour dissolved in a little cold water or milk. 
Simmer five minutes, now add the oysters, simmer a moment 
and serve. Cubes of potato may be used instead of oysters. 



23 



Frogs^ LegSy Saute 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. i dozen frogs' legs. 

Salt. Lemon juice. 

6 mushrooms. i tablespoonful chopped parsley. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, and when hot add 
a little salt, the lemon juice and mushrooms, skinned and 
sliced thin, and the frogs' legs. Cook fifteen minutes, 
being careful not to burn. Sprinkle with chopped parsley 
and serve. 

Frogs'^ Legs a la Poulette 



2 dozen medium sized frogs' legs. 


i^ saltspoonfial cayenne. 


2 tablespoonfuls butter. 


Yolks of two eggs. 


2 tablespoonfuls flour. 


I tablespoonful lemon juice. 


2 cupfuls cream or milk. 


2 tablespoonfuls of sherry if de 


1 teaspoonfiil salt. 


sired. 



Melt the butter in the chafing dish and stir in the 
flour until smooth, then add the cream gradually. Put in 
the frogs' legs , cover and cook about twenty minutes, being 
careful not to burn. Add the seasoning and the beaten 
yolks of the eggs. 

Mow to prepare Terrapin for the 
Chafing Dish 

Drop the terrapin in boiling water. Boil fifteen min- 
utes, then cook in cold water. Place it on its back and re- 
move the entrails, gall bag, claws, and rub off the outer skin 
on the legs. Divide the meat into nice pieces, put these 
in a stew pan with water enough to cover, season with salt 
and pepper only, and cook slowly one hour. When done, 
cool and put it in the ice box until wanted for the chafing 
dish. 



24 



Terrapii 



in 



2 terrapin. Salt. 

Yi cupfiil butter. Cayenne. 

Glass of sherry. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the terrapin, 
which have been previously boiled and cut into neat pieces. 
Season with salt and cayenne ; when thoroughly heated 
through add the sherry. Serve on hot rather deep plates. 

The sherry rnay be omitted if desired. 



Club Terrapin 



2 terrapin, l teaspoonfiil salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. Yolks of three eggs. 

I cupful cream. Glass of sherry. 
Speck cayenne. 

Have ready the terrapin cleaned and cooked as in pre- 
ceding recipe, and cut into dice. Make a sauce by melt- 
ing the butter in the chafing dish, adding the terrapin, then 
the cream gradually, and lastly the beaten yolks of the eggs, 
seasoning and sherry. 



Terrapin a la Maryland 

2 terrapin. I tablespoonful butter. 

3 tablespoonfuls Madeira wine. i cupful cream. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 2 trufHes. 

Speck cayenne. Yolks of two eggs. 

Clean and cook the terrapin as previously directed. 
Carefully cut up the terrapin ; place them in the chafing 
dish with the wine, salt, cayenne, butter and truffles. Mix 
the cream well with the beaten yolks of the eggs, and add 
it to the terrapin, stirring constantly, while thoroughly 
heating, but without letting it boil. Serve very hot. 

25 



Turtle Steak a la Henry Guy Carleton 

I tablespoonful butter. Speck cayenne. 

1 tablespoonful mushroom catsup. Salt. 

2 tablespoonfols currant jelly. Turtle steak. 

1 gill Port wine. Juice of one-half lime. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the mushroom 
catsup, currant jelly, wine, cayenne and a little salt. In 
this simmer the steak until tender. Add the lime juice, 
and serve hot. 

Escargots a P Italienne 

2 tablespoonftils olive oil or butter. 2 sprigs of celery. 
2 carrots. 1 dozen snails. 

I onion. 4 minced mushrooms. 

I sprig thyme. Salt. 

6 peppers. Glass of warmed white wine. 

4 cloves. Dry toast. 

1 small piece of ham. 

Place the butter or oil, carrots, onion, thyme, peppers, 
cloves, ham and celery in a stew-pan and cover with water. 
Stew for fifteen minutes, and strain. This can be either a 
part of one cooking, or can be prepared and set aside until 
wanted. Put a tablespoonful of this stock into the chafing 
dish, add the snails, which have been removed from the 
shells and procured from a reliable delicatessen store, put 
in the mushrooms, season with salt as required. Cook 
slowly five minutes. Add the wine, and serve in tiny 
dishes with sippets of thin, dried toast. The edible snails 
are those with large white shells, sent here from France. 

Oysters (Pan Roast) 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. i saltspoonful pepper. 
I pint oysters. Buttered toast. 

T-/i teaspoonfiil salt. 

Put the butter, oysters and their liquor into the chafing 
dish ; add the seasoning, cover and cook until the edges of 

26 



the oysters curl. Have ready hot plates, each containing a 
square of buttered toast ; put six oysters on each and pour 
over it enough of the juice to moisten it. 



Oyster Stew 



I pint oysters. ' I saltspoonful pepper. 

I pint milk. i tablespoonflil butter. 

I teaspoonfiil salt. 

Heat the milk, add the oysters, and the moment the 
edges curl, add the butter and seasoning. Serve as soon as 
possible. 



Creamed Oysters 



1 pint oysters. yi teaspoonflil salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. ^ teaspoonflil celery salt. 

2 tablespoontuls flour. ^ saltspoonful white pepper. 

I pint cream or milk. A dash of cayenne. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the flour, 
when smooth add the cream gradually, stirring constantly. 
When the sauce is smooth, add the oysters, which have 
been cleaned, and cook until the edges curl. Add the 
seasoning and serve at once. 



Creamed Oysters a la Eugene McCarthy 

I pint oysters. 2 drops tabasco. 

I cupful cream. i tablespoonfiil butter, 

i^ cupful sherry. i stalk celery cut fine. 

I tablespoonfial Worcestershire. }^ teaspoonflil salt. 

Put all the ingredients in the chafing dish, and stew 
until the gills of the oysters curl. 

27 



Curry of Oysters 



I pint oysters. l teaspoonful curry powder. 

I tablespoonful butter. J^ teaspoonful salt. 

I tablespoonful flour. ^ pint oyster liquor. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the flour and 
curry powder, when smooth add the oyster liquor gradually, 
stirring constantly ; add the oysters, simmer four minutes. 
Season with salt and serve. 



Oysters a la Poulette 

I pint oysters. i tablespoonful leraon juice. 

^ teaspoonful salt. i^ saltpoonful cayenne. 

1 tablespoonful butter. Yolks of two eggs. 

1 cupfiil creanv. I teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, and 
add the oyster liquor and cream gradually, stirring con- 
stantly. Put in the oysters and cook until the edges curl. 
Add the salt, cayenne and lemon juice. Add the beaten 
yolks of the eggs and parsley. 



Oysters with Mushrooms 



2 dozen oysters. 

T/i cupful sliced mushrooms. 


y^ cupful mushroom liquor. 
Yolks of two eggs. 


I tablespoonful butter. 
I tablespoonful flour. 
1 cupful cream. 


I teaspoonful salt. 

Speck of cayenne, or white pepper. 



Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, 
pour upon them the cream and mushroom liquor, stirring 
all the time until perfectly smooth. Add the oysters and 
mushrooms, and when the edges of the former begin to curl, 
stir in the beaten yolks of the eggs, very slowly. Cook 
until thoroughly heated, season, and serve. 



Oysters a la George Trimble Davidson 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 


I dash tabasco. 


I quart oysters. 


2 tablespoonfuls chopped celery, 


I teaspoonflil salt. 


The juice of one-half lemon. 


1 saltspoonflil pepper. 


2 tablespoonfiils sherry. 


1 teaspoonful paprika. 


Hot toast. 



Melt the butter In the chafing dish, pour in the oysters 
with their liquor. Season with salt, pepper, paprika and 
tabasco. Add the celery, lemon juice and sherry. Cook 
about four minutes, and serve on toast. A pint of rich 
cream added to the broth of the oyster makes the dish 
richer, though it is not necessary 



Fried Oysters 



Oysters. 


Fine bread ot cracker crumbs, 


Salt. 


2 tablespoonfuls milk. 


Pepper. 


One egg. 


Olive oil or butter. 





Clean and drain large oysters. Sprinkle them with salt 
and pepper. Roll them first in crumbs, then dip them in 
beaten ^gg mixed with two tablespoonfuls milk ; roll in 
crumbs again. Cover the bottom of the chafing dish with 
olive oil, when hot put in the oysters. Brown them care- 
fully each side, and drain on paper. 



Pigs in Blankets 



Oysters. Pepper. 

Salt. Fat bacon. 

Clean and season large oysters with salt and pepper. 
Wrap each oyster in a slice of thin bacon, pinning it with a 
wooden tooth-pick. Cook them in the chafing dish until 
the bacon is crisp. 

29 



Stewed Little Neck Clams 

z dozen small clams. i tablespoonflil butter. 

I cupful milk. y^ saltspoonful white pepper. 

Heat the milk in the chafing dish, add the butter, pep- 
per and clams. When the clams are heated through, serve 
at once. Long cooking will make them indigestible. 

Stewed Soft Clams 

1 dozen soft clams. ^ teaspoonfiil salt. 

2 teaspoonfiils butter. Speck cayenne. 
I cupful milk. 

Remove the shells and trim off the tough part of the 
clams. Heat the milk in the chafing dish, add the butter, 
clams and seasoning. Simmer three minutes. 



Clams a la Boston 

i/^ of a pound of fat salt pork. Boston brown bread. 

I dozen soft clams. 

Cut the pork into thin slices and fry until crisp in the 
chafing dish, add the clams, which have been freed from the 
tough part, and saute them in the pork fat. 

Serve on or with Boston brown bread. 



Soft Clams a la Newburg 

25 soft fresh clams. 2 finely chopped truffles. 

1 tablespoonflil butter. I cupful cream. 
^ saltspoonful white pepper. Yolks of two eggs. 

2 tablespoonfiils Madeira wine. 

Use only the body of the clams. When they are pre- 
pared, place them in the chafing dish with the butter, pep- 



per, wine and truffles. Put on the cover and cook gently 
five minutes. Beat the yolks, add the cream, then pour it 
over the clams ; cook gently two or three minutes, being 
careful not to let it boil. 



Soft Clams Camp Style 

^ pound fat salt pork. Brown bread. 

I dozen and a half soft clams. 

Cut the pork into dice pieces. Cook it in the chafing 
dish until crisp. Free the clams from shell and tough parts, 
saute them in the fat, and serve with brown bread. 



Stewed Scallops 



I ^ dozen scallops. Speck cayenne. 

1 cupful milk. 2 teaspoonfuls butter. 

y^ teaspoonflil salt. 

Scald the scallops by pouring boiling water over them. 
Heat the milk in the chafing dish, add the scallops, salt, 
cayenne and butter. Serve at once. 



Creamed Scallops 



1 pint scallops. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

2 cupfiils milk. ^ teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. I saltspoonful white pepper. 

Cover the scallops with boiling water, and let them stand 
five minutes, and drain them. Melt the butter in the chaf- 
ing dish, stir in the flour, add the milk gradually and sim- 
mer until smooth. Add the scallops, cook five minutes, 
season and serve. 



3> 



Fried Scallops 



I pint scallops. Salt. 

Butter or olive oil. Pepper. 

Pour boiling water on the scallops, let them stand five 
minutes. Drain and dry them. Sprinkle with pepper and 
salt, roll them in flour, and fry them in the chafing dish in 
the butter or oil. 



Creamed Shrimpi 



Yolks of two eggs. Bottle of shrimps. 

1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce. Toast, 

j^ cupful cream. 

Place the hot water dish over the lamp. Put in a pint 
of hot water and place chafing dish over it. Mix in the 
chafing dish the yolks of the eggs, with the anchovy sauce 
and cream; put in some of the bottled shrimps, let them 
get hot, not allowing the eggs to curdle. Serve on strips of 
toast. 



Curried Shrimps 



1 can shrimps. j^ teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. i teaspoonfiil Chutney sauce. 
2 tablespoonfuls flour. 2 cupflils milk. 

2 teaspoonfiils curry powder. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the flour and 
the curry powder, then the hot milk gradually, and then 
the salt. Stir constantly, and when smooth, put in the 
Chutney and the shrimps. They should cook about five 
minutes. 



3* 



Shrimps a la Poulette 

I cup shrimps. ^ teaspoonfol salt. 

I tablespoonful butter. Speck cayenne, 

I tablespoonful flour. Yolks of two eggs. 

I cupful cream or milk. i tablespoonful lemon juice. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the flour, then 
the cream gradually, stirring all the time. Season. Stir in 
the beaten yolks of the eggs; add the shrimps. When hot 
serve. 

Hard Crabs Saute 

Boiled hard crabs. Salt. 

Butter. Pepper. 

Remove the shells, claws, etc., from the crabs, split them 
in two, then saute in butter in the chafing dish. Season 
and serve. 



Oyster Crabs 



2 tablespoonfiils butter. Cayenne. 

2 cupfuls oyster crabs. i tablespoonful lemon juice or a 

Salt. glass of white wine. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, and when hot put 
in the oyster crabs, cook from three to five minutes, season 
with salt and cayenne. The lemon juice or wine may be 
used if desired. Serve at once. 



Crabs a la Creole 

I tablespoonful butter. i cupful chicken broth. 

I small chopped onion. 4 soft shell crabs. 

I chopped Spanish pepper. ^ teaspoonful salt. 

1 cupfial tomato pulp. i^ teaspoonful celery salt. 

Cook the butter, onion and pepper five minutes in the 
chafing dish, add the tomato pulp, broth and crabs, which 

33 



have been previously cleaned, and each one cut in two. 
Season with salt and celery salt. Cook slowly ten minutes 
and serve. 

Creamed Crabs 

1 dozen crabs. Speck cayenne. 

I tablespoonful butter. Yolks of two eggs and two table- 

1 tablespoonful flour. spoonfuls sherry can be used if 

I cupful cream. desired. 

i^ teaspoonful salt. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the flour; mix; 
add the cream gradually, when smooth add the meat of the 
boiled crabs. Season with salt and cayenne. If the eggs 
and wine are used, add them just before the nlixture is 
served. 



Stewed Lobster 



Lobster. 


Salt. 


Milk or cream. 


Pepper, 


I tablespoonfiil butter. 





Cut the lobster into pieces ; put it into the chafing dish, 
with enough milk or cream to cover it. Boil up once ; add 
the butter and season with salt and pepper. Cook lobster 
just long enough to heat it, longer cooking makes it tough. 



Creamed Lobster 

2 pounds lobster. i tablespoonfiil flour. 

1 cupfial milk. I tablespoonfiil lemon juice. 

y^ cupfiil cream. I teaspoonfiil salt. 

I tablespoonfiil butter. Speck cayenne. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, add 
gradually the milk and cream, when smooth put in the 

34 



lobster, cut in small pieces, salt and cayenne. Stir until 
heated through, add the lemon juice and serve. 

Curried Lobster may be prepared the same as Creamed 
Lobster by adding one teaspoonful of curry powder to the 
flour. 



Devilled Lobster 

Lobster. Speck cayenne. 

y^ teaspoonful salt. i tablespoonfol oil. 

^ teaspoonful curry powder. 2 tablespoonfiils butter. 

^ teaspoonful mustard. Juice of one-half lemon. 

Cut the lobster meat into as large pieces as possible. 
Mix together the salt, mustard, curry powder, cayenne and 
oil. Spread it over the lobster. Put the butter in the 
chafing dish, when it is melted add the lobster and cook 
until thoroughly heated. When done squeeze the lemon 
juice over the lobster and serve. 



Lobster a la Newhurg 

2 pounds of lobster meat. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

I tablespoonfial butter. i^ saltspoonflil cayenne. 

^ tablespoonful flour. 2 tablespoonfiils sherry. 

I cupful cream. Yolks of two eggs. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, 
when well mixed add gradually the cream, stirring con- 
stantly. When hot and smooth, add the nicest part of 
the lobster, cut into medium small pieces, cook until the 
lobster is heated. Add the salt, cayenne and sherry; add 
the beaten yolks of the eggs and serve at once. 

35 



Lobster New Orleans Style 

2 pounds lobster meat. I tablespoonful butter. 

1 sweet green pepper, chopped fine. I cupful stock. 

2 tomatoes. 2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

I teaspoonflil chopped onion. ^ pint fresh mushrooms. 

Peel the tomatoes, remove the seeds and chop quite 
fine. Put the butter, tomatoes, pepper and onion into the 
chafing dish. Cook all about three minutes, add the stock 
and the lobster cut in small pieces. When the lobster is 
heated through, season with salt and serve. The mush- 
rooms can be used if desired. 



Lobster Bordelaise 

2 lobsters. i saltspoonfial pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. Speck cayenne. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. A few drops of onion juice, 

i^ pint stock. I pint fresh mushrooms. 

y^ teaspoonful salt. 3 tablespoonfuls sherry. 

Cut the lobster into pieces. Brown the butter in the 
chafing dish, add the flour ; brown again, add the stock 
gradually, stirring all the time, when smooth add the salt, 
pepper, cayenne and onion. Add the lobster and mush- 
rooms. Simmer ten minutes. Add the sherry, and serve. 



Pan Broiled Steak 

Porterhouse steak. Chopped parsley. 

Salt. Butter. 

Paprika. 

Heat the chafing dish quite hot. Lay the steak in the 
hot dry dish, cover instantly. Turn the steak quickly 
every half minute, keeping it covered as much as possible. 

36 



Cook about five minutes or till done. When done sprinkle 
with salt and a little paprika, put a piece of butter on top 
and sprinkle with parsley. 



Beef Steak with TVine Sauce 



Steak. 


Salt. 


J^ cupful consomme. 
i^ cupful sherry. 
Juice of one-half lemon. 


Pepper. 
Butter. 



Pan broil the steak as in the preceding recipe, season 
with a little salt and pepper, add a little butter, pour over 
it the wine and consomme. When thoroughly heated add 
the lemon juice and serve. 



Beef Steak with Onions 

Steak. Pepper. 

Butter. Parsley. 

3 tablespoonfuls sliced onions. 4 tablespoonfiils bouillon. 

Salt. 

Heat the chafing dish quite hot. Put in the steak and 
sear both sides quickly. Add the butter and onions and 
cook about five minutes, or until the meat is done and the 
onions a light brown. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and 
add the bouillon and a little chopped parsley. 



Beef Steak with Oysters 

Rump or Porterhouse steak. Pepper, 

zo oysters. Butter. 

Salt. 

Pan broil the steak, remove from chafing dish and put 
It on a hot platter. Put the juice of twenty oysters in the 

37 



chafing dish, let it come to a boil, skim off the froth, add 
the butter and the oysters. When the oysters are shrivelled, 
season to taste, and pour them over the steak and serve. 



Beef Balls 



Steak. 


I tablespoonful flour. 


Salt. 


y^ pint stock. 


Paprika. 


Onion juice. 


2 tablespoonfuls butter. 





Take the long or flank end from the steak and put it 
twice through a meat chopper. Season with salt, paprika 
and onion juice, and form into small balls. Dust them 
lightly with flour and have them brought to the table on a 
pretty dish. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter into the 
chafing dish, when hot put in the balls, turn them often 
until nicely browned. Draw them to one side of the dish, 
add the flour, stir in the stock. Add one-half teaspoonful 
salt. Cover the dish, cook about two minutes, then serve. 



Cold Roast Beef with 'Tomato Sauce 

6 slices of cold rare beef, I tablespoonful Worcestershire 
I cup stewed tomatoes, or one cup sauce. 

canned tomatoes. ^ teaspoonful salt. 

I tablespoonfiil butter, y^ teaspoonful paprika. 
I tablespoonful chopped onion. 

Put the butter and onion in the chafing dish and stew 
for three minutes. Add the tomatoes, Worcestershire 
sauce and paprika. When the sauce is smooth, add the 
beef, and when heated through, serve. 

38 



Roast Beef Devilled 

1 pint cold roast beef. i tablespoonfiil butter. 

2 teaspoonfuls dry mustard. Speck nutmeg. 
Yz saltspoonflil cayenne. y^ cupful water. 

1 teaspoonflil salt. ^ cupful Madeira. 

Juice of one-half lemon. 

Put the butter, salt, cayenne, mustard and lemon juice 
in the chafing dish. Mix well, add the water and wine 
gradually, and stir till smooth, then add the beef cut in pieces 
one inch square. Grate the nutmeg over the top. Cook 
until the meat is heated through. More seasoning can be 
added if liked. 



Curry of Cold Roast Beef 

Cold roast beef. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Flour. ^ cupful stock or gravy. 

' small onion. ^ tablespoonful curry powder. 

Cut the beef into small square pieces, and dredge them 
with flour. Chop the onion and fry it in the butter in the 
chafing dish until brown ; add the meat, stock and curry 
powder, and let all simmer ten or fifteen minutes. Add salt 
and pepper if needed. 



Beef or Mutton Stew 

2 cupfuls cold cooked beef or mutton. 2 tablespoonfiils brown flour. 

4 cold boiled potatoes. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Salt. I tablespoonful Worcestershire 
Pepper. sauce. 

I pint hot water or stock. 

Brown the butter and flour in the chafing dish, add the 
water or stock gradually, stirring until smooth, season and 

39 



put in the meat and potato cut fine into dice pieces. When 
thoroughly heated through, season to taste and serve. 

One tablespoonfiil of chopped onion may be cooked 
with the butter if desired. 



Beef a la Kelpie 



Fillet of a roast sirloin of beef. J^ teaspoonfiil pepper. 

Flour. I anchovy. 

Butter. I tablespoonful port wine. 

^ pint gravy. i tablespoonful lemon juice. 
I teaspoonfiil salt. 

Cut the fillet into pieces about two inches square ; 
dredge them with flour. Fry the pieces in butter in the 
chafing dish until brown. Add the gravy, salt, pepper, 
anchovy and wine, and let it simmer five minutes ; serve 
on hot dish and pour the gravy over, adding the lemon 
juice after the meat is dished. 



Luncheon Gollasch (Thomas J, Murrey J 

J^ pound raw tenderloin steak. J^ teaspoonful paprika. 

2 raw potatoes. ^ pint brown sauce. 

1 tablespoonful olive oil. A little salt. 

I teaspoonfiil chopped onion. 

Cut the steak into inch pieces, and the potatoes into 
dice. Put into the chafing dish the oil ; when it is smoking 
hot add the onion. When this is a golden brown add 
the paprika, steak and the potato dice, stir to prevent burn- 
ing, add the brown gravy and salt, cover ; cook a total of 
ten minutes. 



40 



Dried Beef 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. i tablespoonful flour. 

y^ pound chipped beef. I beaten egg. 

I cupful milk. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the beef. 
Cook until the edges curl, add the milk, when hot stir in 
the flour, which has been mixed with a little cold milk. 
Add the beaten egg and serve. 



Corned Beef Hash 



I cupful meat. I saltspoonful pepper. 

I cupful mashed potato. l tablespoonful butter. 

Salt to taste. Hot water. 

Remove the gristle and skin from the meat. Chop 
fine. Add hot mashed potato, or cold potato chopped 
finely ; season. Cover the bottom of the chafing dish with 
hot water. Melt butter in it ; add the hash. Let it sim- 
mer until it absorbs the water, and is covered with a brown 
crust. Fold like an omelet. 



Ox Tongue Devilled 

Ox tongue. 2 teaspoonfuls salad oil. 

Mustard. l tablespoonful butter. 

Cayenne. 

Cut into slices a canned, or cold boiled tongue; put a 
layer of them on a large plate, sprinkle over with dry mus- 
tard, a little cayenne, and the oil ; place over this another 
layer of tongue and season as before. Repeat this until a 
sufficient quantity of tongue has been used; let it stand 
three or four hours. Put the butter in the chafing dish, 
let it get hot, add slices of tongue, and brown quickly. 

4» 



Ox Tail Ragout 



Ox tail. I teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. I saltspoonful pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. i teaspoonful lemon juice. 

1 pint hot water, or stock. l tablespoonfiil chopped onion. 

1 tablespoonfiil Worcestershire sauce. 

Divide the tail at the joints, cook in salted water until 
tender and remove. Brown the butter in the chafing dish, 
stir in the onion and flour and brown again, add the water 
or stock gradually, stirring until smooth. Add the season- 
ing and heat the meat in the sauce. 

A glass of sherry may be added if liked. 



Tripe a la Lyonnaise 

I pound tripe. l tablespoonfiil chopped parsley. 

1 large onion. I tablespoonfiil vinegar. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Clean and scald the tripe. Cut the tripe in small pieces, 
also the onion, and brown them in the chafing dish with the 
butter until yellow. Add the vinegar, salt and pepper. 
Simmer two minutes longer, and serve with the chopped 
parsley sprinkled over. 

T'ripe with Tomatoes 

2 tablespoonfiils butter. i tablespoonfiil Worcestershire 
I can tomatoes or i qt. fresh tomatoes. sauce. 

3 cupfiils of tripe. i teaspoonful salt. 

I saltspoonful pepper. 

Clean and scald the tripe. Melt the butter in the chaf- 
ing dish, add the tomatoes, the tripe cut into dice, and the 
Worcestershire sauce. Simmer ten minutes, and season 
with salt and pepper. 



Tripe with Oysters 



i^ pound tripe. y^ tablespoonful flour. 

2 dozen oysters, ^ teaspoonfiil salt. 

2 cupfuls soup stock. I saltspoonful pepper. 

y^ teaspoonfiil celery salt. Toast. 

y tablespoonful butter. 

Clean and scald the tripe. Cut it into two-inch strips, 
simmer an hour in the soup stock and set aside until 
wanted. Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the 
flour, and when smooth add gradually the tripe and soup 
stock, season with salt, pepper and celery salt. Add the 
oysters and simmer until the edges curl. Serve on thin 
slices of toast. 



Tripe with Cream Sauce 

y pound honey-comb tripe. i cupful cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. y teaspoonfiil salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls chopped onion. I saltspoonful pepper. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish ; when hot put in 
the tripe, which has been previously boiled, and cut into 
strips about three inches long. When brown on both sides, 
take out the tripe, adding the onion just before removing 
the tripe. Stir in the flour and the cream thoroughly, being 
careful to make a smooth sauce. Season with salt and 
pepper, then return the tripe to the chafing dish, and serve 
when hot. 



Calp s Liver 



Calf's liver. Pepper. 

Bacon. Flour. 

Salt. 

Cut the liver in thin slices ; dip these in boiling water a 
moment, dry them on a napkin and dredge with a little 

43 



flour, then shake it off gently. Cut the bacon in thin slices, 
put it into the chafing dish ; when cooked a little add the 
slices of liver, sprinkle with a little salt and pepper. Turn 
often ; when the edges curl serve. 



Calf s Livery Minced 

1 pint cold cooked calf's liver. i teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonflils butter. y^ teaspoonful paprika. 

1 tablespoonful flour. A little onion juice if liked. 

^ pint hot water. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, 
add the water gradually, stirring until smooth. Season, add 
the liver, which has been cooked and chopped. Simmer 
five minutes. Serve on pieces of bread cut round with the 
biscuit cutter and toasted a delicate brown. 



Calf* s Liver Stewed a P Italienne 

2 pounds fresh calf's liver. 3 tablespoonflils white wine. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 6 chopped mushrooms. 

I chopped onion. I teaspoonfiil chopped parsley. 

I teaspoonful salt. ^ cupful stock. 

i^ teaspoonfiil pepper. 

Cut the liver into small pieces. Put them with the 
butter into the chafing dish, add the chopped onion. 
Season with salt and pepper. Cook five minutes, then 
moisten with the wine and stock. Add the chopped mush- 
rooms, and cook three minutes. Serve with the chopped 
parsley. 



Calf^s Brains 



Calf's brains. i teaspoonful salt. 

I cupful milk. Speck cayenne. 

Yolks of two eggs. A few drops onion juice. 

I tablespoonful butter. J^ teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

I tablespoonful flour. I tablespoonful lemon juice. 

Boil the brains and send to table cold, cut into small 
pieces. Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the flour. 
Stir until smooth ; then add gradually the milk. When 
this mixture is smooth and boils, add the seasoning, and the 
cold boiled brains ; when thoroughly heated add the well 
beaten yolks of the eggs. 



Calf^s Brains with Eggs 

Calf's brains. 5^ teaspoonfial salt. 

I tablespoonful butter. i^ teaspoonful paprika. 

4 eggs- 
Cut the brains into pieces. Cook them in the chafing 
dish with the butter. Beat the eggs ; add them to the dish, 
stir until firm, season and serve. 



Ca/f^s Head with Oysters 

I cupful each of cold boiled calf's 1 1^ tablespoonfuls flour. 

tongue and head. I teaspoonful salt. 

I cupful oysters. i saltspoonful pepper. 

1 pint hot milk. i tablespoonful sherry. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, 
then the milk gradually, when smooth add the seasoning, 
the meat cut into inch pieces, and the oysters. Cook until 
the edges of the oysters curl. 

45 



Curried Calf* s Head 

\ calf's cheek. J^ teaspoonful salt. 

I cupful gravy or soup stock. 2 tablespoonfuls sherry. 

J^ teaspoonful curry powder. 

Cut the cheek, previously boiled, into dice pieces. Put 
it in the chafing dish with the gravy or stock, add salt, 
curry powder and sherry, and serve. The beaten yolks of 
one or two eggs may be added if liked. 



Calf s Head J Sauce T" art are 

4 pieces of cold boiled calf's head. i tablespoonfiil chopped olives. 

Butter or fat salt pork. 1 tablespoonful chopped capers. 

I cupfiil mayonnaise dressing. i tablespoonfiil chopped parsley. 

Cut the meat into pieces about two inches square. Cook 
them in the chafing dish with the butter or pork fat until 
crisp. Serve with a Sauce Tartare made by mixing the 
olives, capers and parsley with the mayonnaise dressing. 



Calps Feet, No. 



Cold boiled calf's feet. 


Yolks of two eggs, 


I tablespoonful butter. 


I cupful cream. 


J^ tablespoonful flour. 


Salt. 


y^ cupful sherry. 


Pepper. 



Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, 
when smooth add the sherry. Beat together the yolks of 
the eggs and the cream, reduce the heat, and stir this mix- 
ture into the chafing dish ; season with salt and pepper ; 
when hot add the feet, which have been previously cleaned, 
split and boiled five hours. 

46 



Calps Feet^ No. 2 

4 halves of cold boiled calf's feet. i cupful water or broth. 

I tablespoonflil chopped onion. ^ teaspoonful celery salt. 

I chopped Spanish pepper. i^ cupful sherry, 

I dozen mushrooms. Toast. 

I tablespoonful butter. 

Remove the bones from the calf's feet, and cut the 
flesh into neat pieces. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish; in this cook the 
onion and pepper, add the water or broth ; then add the 
mushrooms and the meat, season with celery salt and sherry. 
Serve on toast. 

A sliced truffle may be added if desired. 



Ca/fs Feet Saute 



2 tablespoonflils butter. Pepper. 

4 halves of cold boiled calf's feet. 2 tablespoonflils chopped parsley. 

Salt. Juice of half a lemon. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, when hot add the 
calf's feet. Cook them a few moments on both sides, 
season with salt, pepper, and the parsley; add the lemon 
juice and serve. 



Chitterlings 



Calf's chitterlings. Pepper. 

I tablespoonful butter. 3 tablespoonflils sherry. 

Salt. Toast. 

Soak the chitterlings in salted water twelve hours, scald 
them, cut them in pieces, and simmer one hour in water 
enough to cover them. When cold drain, cook them in 
the butter in the chafing dish a moment, add salt, pepper 
and sherry ; when hot serve on toast. Codfish chitterlings 
can be used if desired. 



47 



Lamb Chops ^ Breaded 



Chops. 


Pepper, 


I egg- 


• Salt. 


Fine cracker or bread crumbs. 


Fat. 



Sprinkle the chops with salt and pepper. Roll in 
crumbs, beaten egg, and crumbs again, and fry in the chaf- 
ing dish in hot fat, four to six minutes if liked rare, eight 
to ten if well done. 



Mutton Chops 



Mutton chops. Salt. 

Clean the chops, remove the skin and extra fat; have 
the chafing dish pan hissing hot, without any fat ; put in 
the chops and cook five minutes, turning often. When 
nearly done, sprinkle with salt. Drain on paper, and serve 
hot. 



Sliced Mutton 

Thin slices of cold rare mutton. i^ teaspoonful dry mustard. 

I cupful gravy from the roast. i tablespoonful butter. 

I tablespoonful Worcestershire sauce. Salt and pepper to taste. 

1 tablespoonful currant jelly. Sherry glass of sherry. 

Cream the butter and mustard together. Mix it with 
the gravy in the chafing dish, add the jelly, Worcestershire 
sauce, salt and pepper, and heat. Put in the mutton. 
When heated through add the wine and serve. 

Brown bread heated, sliced and buttered, goes well with 
this dish. 



48 



Mock Venison 

I slice raw mutton. Cayenne. 

J^ tablespoonfiil butter. i tablespoonful currant jelly. 

Salt. '^^ cupful Madeira or Port. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, and when hot, put 
in the mutton and cook a few minutes, season with salt and 
cayenne. Add the currant jelly and wine. Simmer a few 
minutes and serve. 



Mutton J Minced 



Cold cooked mutton. 


Salt. 


Gravy or soup stock. 


Lemon, 


Butter. 


Toast. 


Pepper. 





Chop the mutton very fine; put it into the chafing dish, 
with some of the gravy, if you have it; or put in a little 
soup stock, enough to moisten it, season it with butter, 
pepper and salt. Stir and cook until hot. Serve on slices 
of toasted bread; garnish with lemon. 



Curry of Mutton and Rice 

2 cupfuls mutton broth. 2 teaspoonfuls curry. 

2 tablespoonflils butter, I cupful boiled rice. 

2 tablespoonfuls brown flour. 2 cupfvils cold cooked mutton. 

1 teaspoonfiil salt. 

Cook the butter and flour until nicely browned in the 
chafing dish, add the broth gradually, when smooth put in 
the seasoning, the mutton cut into dice pieces, and the rice. 
When the mutton and rice are warmed through, serve. 



49 



Kidney Saute 



2 mutton kidneys. y^ teaspoonflil salt. 

I tablespoonful minced onion. ^ teaspoonflil celery salt. 

Yi tablespoonful butter. I tablespoonful sherry. 
Speck cayenne. 

Scald the kidneys, skin them, cut them into three or 
four pieces, dry in a napkin. Put them in the chafing dish 
with the butter and onion, stir carefully a moment, add the 
salt, celery salt, cayenne and sherry. Cook three minutes 
and serve. 



Kidneys with Mushrooms 

z pairs lamb kidneys. i cupful stock. 

I dozen mushrooms. i teaspoonful Worcestershire 

I tablespoonful butter. sauce. 

I tablespoonful flour. ^ teaspoonful salt. 

A few drops onion juice. i saltspoonfiil pepper. 

Brown the butter in the chafing dish, add the flour, and 
brown again; stir in the stock gradually, add the Worces- 
tershire sauce and seasoning. Put in the mushrooms, 
cook five minutes, add the kidneys and cook three minutes 
longer. Serve on toast if desired. 



Kidneys with Potatoes 

3 raw potatoes. i tablespoonful butter. 

4 lamb kidneys. i cupful rich brown gravy. 

I tablespoonful chopped celery. i tablespoonful mushroom catsup. 

Peel and cut the potatoes into dice. Scald and skin 
the kidneys, and cut them into quarters. Melt the butter 
in the chafing dish, and when hot stir in the potatoes, add the 

50 



celery, the kidneys and the gravy. Season if necessary with 
salt and pepper, put in the catsup, cover and cook, until the 
potatoes are soft. 



Brown Fricassee of Veal 

I pint cold cooked veal. ^ of a pound of fat salt pork or 

Salt. bacon. 

Pepper. i pint veal stock. 

Flour. Chopped parsley or celery leaf. 

Cut the veal into thin slices, then into dice. Dredge 
with flour, pepper and salt. Slice the bacon or pork and 
fry it in the chafing dish until it is crisp, remove it, and to 
the fat remaining in the dish, add two tablespoonfuls of 
flour and cook until brown, add gradually the stock. Season 
with a little more salt and pepper, add the meat and a tea- 
spoonful of either chopped parsley or celery leaf. When 
hot serve with boiled rice, mashed potato, or small hot soda 
biscuits and the fried bacon. 



Veal Devilled 

1 pint cold roast veal. 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. i tablespoonfiil Worcestershire 
I teaspoonfiil chopped parsley. sauce. 

1 teaspoonful mixed English mustard. 1 teaspoonfiil salt. 

I tablespoonfiil chopped onion. y^ saltspoonflil cayenne. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, and when hot add 
the parsley, mustard, onion and vinegar. Cook three 
minutes, stirring well; add the Worcestershire sauce, salt, 
cayenne, and the veal cut into pieces one inch square. 
Cook until the meat is heated through. Lamb may be 
used in place of veal. 

51 



Veal with Mushrooms 

I pint sliced veal. i tablespoonfal flour. 

^ pint mushrooms. i small onion sliced. 

I cupful veal stock. Yolks of two eggs. 

y2, cupflil mushroom liquor. ^ teaspoonful salt. 

I tablespoonfiil butter. i saltspoonful pepper. 

Brown the onion in the butter, add the flour, and cook 
until it browns. Stir in the stock and mushroom liquor, 
add the slices of cold roast veal. When these are hot, put 
in the mushrooms, seasoning and the beaten yolks of the 
eggs. Cook two minutes more, and serve. 

The yolks of the eggs may be omitted if desired. 



Veal with Oysters 



I cupfiil cold sliced veal. i saltspoonful pepper. 

I tablespoonfiil butter. i cupfol cream. 

I teaspoonflil chopped onion. y^ tablespoonful flour. 

^ teaspoonflil salt. i 2 oysters. 

Put the butter, onion, salt and pepper into the chafing 
dish. When the onion browns slightly add the flour, then 
the hot cream gradually ; stir until smooth. Add the veal ; 
simmer three minutes ; add the oysters, simmer a moment 
and serve. 

Veal with Asparagus 

I cup cold cooked veal. ^ cupfiil water asparagus has been 

Tops of a large bunch of boiled aspara- boiled in. 

gus, or same quantity of canned ^ teaspoonflil salt. 

asparagus. Speck cayenne. 

I tablespoonful butter. Yolks of two eggs. 

I tablespoonful flour. i teaspoonful lemon juice. 
y^ cupful cream. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, add 
the cream and water gradually, when smooth add the veal, 

52 



which has been cut in small pieces, the asparagus tops, salt, 
and cayenne. When thoroughly heated, add the lemon 
juice and beaten yolks of the eggs and serve. 



Veal with Small Onions 

Thin slices of cold cooked veal. ^ cupfUl chopped celery. 

2 cupfbls hot milk. 6 small onions. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. i teaspoonfiil salt. 

2 tablespoonfiils flour. I saltspoonfiil white pepper. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, 
add the hot milk gradually; when smooth, add the onions, 
which have been previously parboiled, and stew five min- 
utes with' the cover on. Add the celery, slices of veal, salt 
and pepper. Cook five minutes more and serve. 



To Prepare Sweetbreads 

Put them in cold water ; remove the pipes and mem- 
branes. Cook them in boiling salted water, with one table- 
spoonful lemon juice, twenty minutes, then put them in 
cold water to harden. They should be kept on ice until 
wanted for the chafing dish. 



Sweetbreads Saute 

Sweetbreads. Salt. 

Bread crumbs. Pepper. 

Egg. Butter. 

Prepare sweetbreads as previously directed. Sprinkle 
salt and pepper on the sweetbreads, roll them in fine crumbs, 
then in beaten egg, and again in crumbs, and saute in the 
chafing dish in a little butter. Serve with French peas. 

53 



Creamed Sweetbreads 

Sweetbreads. i teaspoonfiil salt. 

2 tablespoonfiils butter. i saltspoonflil white pepper. 

2 tablespoonfiils flour. i pint milk or cream. 

Prepare the sweetbreads as previously directed. Melt 
the butter in the chafing dish, add the flour, mix ; add the 
milk gradually, stirring constantly until smooth. Add the 
sweetbreads, which have been cut in small pieces. Season, 
and when thoroughly heated, serve. 



Larded Sweetbreads^ Saute 

Sweetbreads. Salt. 

Fat salt pork. Pepper. 

I tablespoonful butter. 

Parboil and blanch the sweetbreads, and run through 
each four or five thin strips of fat salt pork with a larding 
needle. Melt the butter in the chafing dish, and cook the 
sweetbreads in this, turning often. Season with salt and 
pepper. 



Sweetbreads Larded 

2 sweetbreads. 3 cupfuls rich thickened gravy. 

Bacon. I tablespoonful mushroom catsup. 

Lemon peel. 2 teaspoonfuls lemon juice. 
Cucumber. 

Parboil the sweetbreads. When cold lard them down 
the center with strips of bacon, on each side with thin shreds 
of lemon peel, and on each side of the lemon with very 
small pieces of pickled cucumber. Put them in the chafing 
dish with the gravy and cook. When done add the mush- 
room catsup and lemon juice ; serve very hot. 

54 



Scrambled Sweetbreads 

4 eggs. Yi saltspoonful pepper. 

I pair sweetbreads. ^ cupful milk. 

i^ teaspoonful salt. 

Beat four eggs slightly, add the salt, pepper, milk and 
the sweetbreads, which have been parboiled and cut in dice. 
Turn into a hot buttered chafing dish and stir till firm but 
soft. 



Sweetbread and Mushroom Ragout 

I dozen mushrooms. i cupful cream. 

1 sweetbread. J^ teaspoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful butter. ^ saltspoonful white pepper. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, put in the flour, 
stirring constantly. Season with salt and pepper ; add the 
cream gradually ; when smooth add the cold cooked sweet- 
bread, and the mushrooms cut into dice. Simmer for about 
ten minutes. The beaten yolks of two eggs and two table- 
spoonfuls of Madeira wine may be added if liked. 



Sweetbreads with Asparagus 

2 sweetbreads. ^ teaspoonful salt. 

I can or bunch of asparagus. i saltspoonful white pepper. 

I tablespoonful butter. i saltspoonful celery salt. 

I tablespoonful flour. Yolks of two eggs. 

I cupful milk. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, 
then add the milk gradually. When smooth add the sweet- 
breads and the asparagus tops, which have been previously 
cooked. Simmer six or eight minutes. Season and add 
the beaten yolks of the eggs. 

55 



Sweetbreads a la Roumage 

4 sweetbreads. 4. crushed peppercorns. 

y^, can mushrooms. Speck mace. 

4 truffles. y^ tablespoonful flour. 

1 pint broth or water. i gill port or claret. 

2 tablespoonfiils butter. i tablespoonfiil mushroom catsup. 

2 tablespoonfiils chopped onion. 1 teaspoonfiil salt. 

I bay leaf. y^ teaspoonful kitchen bouquet. 

3 cloves. 

Put the butter, flour, onion, mace, bay leaf, cloves and 
peppercorns into the chafing dish. When the onion is 
brown, add the broth or water; boil until reduced to one- 
half, strain if the bits of onion and seasoning are objected 
to. Add the mushrooms and truffles, which have been 
sliced, the mushroom catsup, kitchen bouquet and salt ; lay 
in the sweetbreads, which have been parboiled, and simmer a 
few minutes. Add the port or claret and serve hot. 

Pork Tenderloin 

A medium sized pork tenderloin. i tablespoonfiil vinegar. 

3 tablespoonfiils butter. 4 tablespoonfiils freshly grated 

I tablespoonful chopped onion. horse-radish. 

Cut the pork tenderloin into half inch slices, and cook 
it in the chafing dish with one tablespoonful of the butter 
and onion ; it must be well cooked, which will take about 
ten minutes. When done, add the vinegar and reduce the 
heat, put in the remaining two tablespoonfiils of butter, 
and when melted stir into this the horse-radish. 



Bacon 

Cut the bacon in even thin slices. Put them in the chafing 
dish and when they begin to cook turn them, continuing to do 
so until they are well cooked, being careful not to burn them. 

56 



Barbecued Ham 

Cold boiled ham. J^^ teaspoonful mustard. 

1 tablespoonfiil vinegar. i saltspoonful pepper. 

Lay the ham, cut in sHces, in the chafing dish, and let 
them fry in their own fat. When they are shghtly crisp, 
draw them to the side of the dish, and add to the fat in the 
pan the vinegar, mustard and pepper. Mix well, put the 
meat into the sauce, cook from three to five minutes and serve. 

Pi^s Feet 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. Salt. 

4 halves of pig's feet. Pepper. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, put in the pig's 
feet and cook about five minutes on each side, with the dish 
covered. Season to taste and serve. This recipe is for 
feet previously prepared by the butcher. 

Two parts tomato catsup and one part horse-radish, not 
heated, makes a nice sauce. 

Sausage a la " D. Tf^.^^ 

Sausage. Paprika. 

Butter. Toast. 

Celery. Anchovy paste. 

Slice the sausage, and fry quickly in butter in the chaf- 
ing dish. Add chopped celery and paprika, and serve 
without any fat, on toast, previously spread while hot with 
anchovy paste. 

Imported Frankfurter 

I can imported Frankfurter. 

Open tin, and put the contents into the chafing dish. 
Cover with hot water and boil three minutes, and serve. 



57 



spring Chicken 



Spring Chicken. Salt. 

Oil. Pepper. 

A dainty and tender spring chicken can be split and 
cooked in the chafing dish. Saute it in the best oil, in- 
stead of butter; it will be delicious if carefully cooked. 



Chicken Hollandaise 

1 pint cooked chicken. i pint boiling water or chicken 
^ cupful chopped celery. stock. 

2 tablespoonfiils butter. l teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfiils flour. l saltspoonflil pepper. 

1 teaspoonfvil chopped onion. 2 eggs. 

Juice of one-half lemon. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the onion and 
cook until yellow, stir in the flour, and add the water or 
stock gradually. Add the celery, salt, pepper, lemon juice 
and white meat of the chicken cut into small pieces. When 
well heated add the yolks of the eggs well beaten. 



Devilled Chicken Bones 

Cold cooked chicken. i teaspoonfiil made mustard. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. i^ teaspoonful paprika. 

1 tablespoonfiil Chili sauce. i tablespoonfiil chopped parsley. 

I tablespoonfiil Worcestershire. i cupfiil stock. 

I tablespoonfiil mushroom catsup. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, and when hot, add 
the Chili sauce, Worcestershire, mushroom catsup, mustard 
and paprika. Cut little gashes in the drum sticks, wings 
and side bones of the chicken. Dredge with salt, pepper 

58 



and flour. Cook in the seasoned butter till brown. Pour 
on the stock and simmer five minutes. Sprinkle with 
chopped parsley. 



Chicken 'Terrapin 



Dark meat of cold cooked chicken. Yolks of two eggs. 

turkey or grouse. I teaspoonful dry mustard. 

I cupful cream or stock. Speck of cayenne. 

I tablespoonful butter. I teaspoonful salt. 

I tablespoonful flour. jE^ cupful Madeira, 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, 
add the stock or cream gradually, add the chicken cut in 
small slices and the seasoning. Let it simmer a few minutes, 
add the beaten yolks of the eggs and the Madeira. Serve 
as soon as heated. 



Curry of Chicken 



Cold roast or boiled chicken. I tablespoonful curry powder. 

1 tablespoonfiil chopped onion. I teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. I saltspoonful pepper. 
2 tablespoonfuls flour. i pint milk. 

Put the onion and butter in the chafing dish, and cook 
until the onion is light brown ; add the flour, curry pow- 
der, salt and pepper, stir until smooth, add the milk 
gradually, stirring constantly. Add the chicken cut in 
squares or slices, cook five minutes or until heated through. 

Chicken with Mushrooms 

I pint of cold cooked chicken or i cupflil milk, 

turkey. l cupful chicken broth. 

1 can of mushrooms. Yolks of two eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. I teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. I saltspoonful white pepper. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour ; 
when smooth, add the milk and chicken broth gradually. 

59 



Add the chicken, which has been sliced, cook three min- 
utes; add the mushrooms, salt and pepper, cook two 
minutes longer. Add the beaten yolks of the eggs very 
slowly, stirring all the time. Serve as soon as the sauce is 
creamy. 



Pepper Pot 



2 teaspoonfiils salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped parsley. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

I tablespoonful chopped onion. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

2 cupfiils bouillon. 

Meat of one-half cooked chicken. 



Same quantity of honey-comb tnpe. 
The same of cold boiled potatoes. 
^ can mushrooms. 
4 leaves of tabasco. 
I saltspoonflil cayenne. 
^ teaspoonful paprika. 



Melt the butter in the chafing dish ; add the onion 
and flour ; when this is cooked, pour in gradually the 
bouillon. When smooth add the chicken, the tripe and 
potatoes, all cut in large dice pieces, the mushrooms, 
tabasco and cayenne. Heat the mixture thoroughly, 
season with paprika, salt and parsley. Mix and serve. 



Chicken Livers stewed in Madeira 

JVine 



pint chicken livers, 
tablespoonfuls butter 
teaspoonful salt, 
saltspoonflil pepper. 



I tablespoonful flour. 

1 cupfiil stock. 

2 tablespoonfiils wine. 
Juice of one-half lemon. 



Clean and dry the chicken livers, then fry them in the 
butter in the chafing dish five minutes. Add the flour, 
which has been previously browned in the oven. Season 
with the salt and pepper, add the stock gradually, then the 
wine. Cook for three minutes, then add the lemon juice. 
Serve very hot. 



6o 



Hashed Turkey a la Royal 

1 pound cooked turkey. 2 truffles. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. l saltspoonful pepper. 
1 pint milk. A little nutmeg. 

3 tablespoonfuls mushroom liquor. 6 heart-shaped pieces of toast. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, 
add the milk gradually, stirring constantly. Add the turkey 
cut in dice-shaped pieces, the mushroom liquor, and 
truffles cut in square pieces. Season with salt, pepper and 
nutmeg. When thoroughly heated, serve on the toast. 



Turkey or Chicken Newhurg 

Cold cooked turkey or chicken. ^ teaspoonful salt. 

I tablespoonfiil butter. Speck of cayeime. 

I tablespoonfiil flour. 4 tablespoonfuls wine. 

1 cupful cream. Yolks of two eggs. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, 
add the cream gradually, stirring all the time. When 
smooth add the turkey or chicken cut in small slices, salt 
and cayenne. Add the wine and the yolks well beaten. 
When thoroughly heated serve. 



Breast of Grouse 



1 plump grouse. Speck cayenne. 

2 tablespoonfiils butter. i tablespoonfiil currant jelly. 
Yi teaspoonfiil salt. 2 tablespoonfuls claret or port. 

Cut the breast of the grouse into two pieces. Put the 
butter into the chafing dish ; when smoking hot, add the 
grouse. If liked "well done" cook three minutes on each 
side, season with salt and pepper. Add the currant jelly 
and wine. Cook one minute and serve. 



61 



Breast of Duck Braised 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. Pepper. 

2 ducks. Jeliy. 

Salt. 

Cut the breasts of the ducks in four pieces, and remove 
the skin. Melt the butter in the chafing dish, when hot 
put in the breasts. Cook five minutes ; turn and cook 
five minutes more. Season to taste and serve. 

One tablespoonful of jelly may be added if liked just 
before the duck is done. 



Domestic Duck 

Cold cooked duck. 6 olives. 

I cupful gravy left from the roast. 2 tablespoonfuls currant jelly. 

I tablespoonful butter. Speck of^ cayenne. 

I teaspoonfiil flour. Small glass claret. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, 
add the gravy gradually, stirring all the time. Add the 
olives cut into small pieces, cayenne, jelly, claret and the 
sliced duck. Cook until thoroughly heated and serve. 



Devilled Duck 

1 pint cold roast duck. i tablespoonful butter. 

2 teaspoonfuls dry mustard. Speck of nutmeg. 
J^ saltspoonfiil cayenne. i^ cupful water. 

I teaspoonfiil salt. ^ cupful Madeira. 

Juice of one-half lemon. 

Put the salt, cayenne, mustard and lemon juice in the 
chafing dish. Mix well, add the water gradually, then the 
Madeira and the duck, which has been cut in nice 

62 



pieces, free of bone, fat and skin. Grate the nutmeg over 
this. Stir and cook about six minutes. Add the butter, 
and serve as soon as it is melted. 



Salme of Grouse 



Cold cooked grouse. y^ teaspoonful salt. 

Toast. i^ saltspoonful pepper. 

tablespoonfiil butter. Speck cayenne. 

tablespoonful flour. A few drops onion juice. 

cupful stock. I tablespoonful chopped mush- 
i^ cup wine. rooms. 

tablespoonful Worcestershire sauce. 2 truffles. 

Brown the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, 
when brown add the stock gradually, stirring until smooth. 
Put in the cold cooked grouse cut in pieces. Add the 
seasoning, wine, mushrooms and truffles cut fine. Serve 
with toast points. 



Partridge or Grouse 

Partridge or grouse. Speck mace. 

Salt pork. I tablespoonfiil white wine. 

^ cupfiil broth or hot water. I dozen chopped mushrooms. 

Salt. Toast. 

Pepper. 

Cut the meat free from bone into narrow strips; cut 
pieces of salt pork into narrow strips the same size. Roll 
the meat up and wrap the pork around each piece, then pin 
with a wooden toothpick. Put a small piece of pork into 
the chafing dish, when it is nearly crisp add the rolls, and 
cook about five minutes, or until the pork is well cooked ; 
add the hot water or broth, season and add the wine. Add 
the mushrooms, cover; when the liquid is nearly all 
evaporated serve on thin toast. 

63 



Partridges 



3 partridges. J^ can chopped mushrooms. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 2 tablespoonfuls stock. 

I teaspoonful salt. 2 tablespoonfuls port wine. 

1 saltspoonful pepper. 

Remove the breasts from the partridges ; arrange them 
neatly on a plate at the left. Put two tablespoonfuls of 
butter into the chafing dish ; when hot, add the breasts and 
turn until cooked ; season with salt and pepper. Put in 
the mushrooms, stock and wine. 



Stewed Reed Birds 



4 Reed birds. 

4 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Flour. 

Salt. 


1 cupful rich stock. 

I teaspoonfiil lemon juice. 

1 tablespoonful chopped parsley, 

Toast. 


Pepper. 





Melt the butter in the chafing dish, and when hot put 
in the birds, which have been dredged with salt, pepper and 
flour ; cook six minutes, turning them often. Add the 
stock and lemon juice, cook four minutes and serve hot on 
toast. Sprinkle the parsley on the top. 



English Snipe 



4 snipe. 

I clove of garlic. 


I teaspoonful brovj^n flour. 
Water. 


2 cloves. 


J^ cupful claret. 


4 peppercorns. 
1 sprig parsley. 
I tablespoonful butter. 


I tablespoonfial chopped truffle. 

Toast. 

Currant jelly. 



Cut off the breast carefully from the snipe, put the 
frames of the snipe in a press with the clove of garlic, 
cloves, peppercorns and parsley, turn the screw and obtain 

64 



all the juice possible. Put the butter and flour into the 
chafing dish, stir till well mixed, and add the breasts. Cook 
about two minutes and add the extracted juice and an equal 
quantity of water. Simmer a moment, add the claret and 
truffle. Cover and simmer two minutes longer. Spread 
jelly on thin slices of toast, and on these serve the breasts 
of snipe. 



JVoodcock 

Woodcock. Pepper. 

Olive oil. Toast. 

Salt. Currant jelly. 

Select a fat bird, remove the legs, split down the back 
and take out the entrails, stick the long bill into the breast 
on the right-hand side, rub the bird all over with olive oil, 
and flatten out. Heat a tablespoonful of oil in the chafing 
dish, and put in the bird, cook it five minutes on the inner 
side first, then about the same time on the breast side. 
Season, and serve on toast with currant jelly if liked. 



Scotch TVoodcock 

Bread, cut in small slices. Yolks of four eggs. 

Butter, I cupful hot cream. 

Anchovies, chopped. 

Toast and butter the bread on both sides, spread on 
this some chopped anchovies. Pour the hot cream on to 
the beaten yolks of the eggs, and cook in the chafing dish 
until thickened like custard. 

Arrange the pieces of toast into a pyramid and pour 
the hot mixture over it. 



65 



Venison Steak 

1 y^ pounds venison; cut in slices, i^ saltspoonful cayenne. 

one inch thick. I teaspoonfiil lemon juice. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 2 tablespoonfuls currant jelly. 

I teaspoonful salt. 4 tablespoonfiils claret or Madeira. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish ; when hot put in 
the steak, cover and cook three minutes, turning frequently. 
Add the other ingredients and simmer all together six 
minutes. Serve on hot plates. 



Venison Ragout 



^ pound venison. i^ teaspoonful salt. 

I tablespoon fill butter. I saltspoonful pepper. 

I tablespoonful flour. i gill sherry. 

I cupful water or stock. 

Pieces which will not make a neat steak can be used 
for this. Brown the butter in the chafing dish, add the 
flour, brown again, stir in the water or stock gradually. 
When smooth add the seasoning, the venison cut into 
even pieces and the sherry. Cook five minutes. 



Venison Cutlets with Apples 

4 apples. I slice venison. 

Powdered sugar. Salt. 

Yl cupfijl port wine. Pepper. 

Butter. I dozen candied cherries. 

Wipe, core, and cut the apples in one-fourth inch slices. 
Sprinkle with powdered sugar, and add the wine ; cover, 
and let stand one-half hour. Drain and saute in butter. 
Remove from dish. Cut the venison into cutlets one-half 



66 



inch thick. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cook from 
three to five minutes in a very hot chafing dish, using only 
enough butter to prevent sticking. Remove from dish. 
Melt three tablespoonfuls of butter, add wine drained from 
apples, and the candied cherries cut in halves. Reheat cut- 
lets in sauce thus made, and serve with apples. 



Rabbit — German Style 

1 rabbit. l cupful vinegar. 

2 slices of onion. 2 tablespoonfuls olive oil. 
I green pepper. I tablespoonful butter. 

6 cloves. 2 cupfuls beef broth. 

1 teaspoonflil salt. 1 tablespoonful brovv^n flour. 

I bay leaf. J^ cupful sherry. 

Blade mace. 

Cut the rabbit into neat pieces; put into a deep dish 
the onion and pepper cut up, cloves, salt, bay leaf, mace, 
rabbit, vinegar and olive oil. Let it stand in a cool place 
over night. Melt the butter in frying pan. Cook the 
rabbit in it five minutes, add the brown flour and beef 
broth, simmer an hour and a half Put it away to cool. 
When wanted, remove the fat from the top, add the sherry 
and warm it up in the chafing dish. Add more seasoning 
if necessary. 



Stewed Mushrooms 

1 pint fresh mushrooms. yd teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. i saltspoonful pepper. 

Peel the mushrooms, remove the stems. Melt the 
butter in the chafing dish, add the mushrooms, salt and 
pepper. Simmer for ten minutes and serve on a hot dish. 

67 



Stewed Mushrooms on Toast 

^ pound fresh mushrooms. ^ saltspoonful pepper. 

I tablespoonful butter. y^ saltspoonful nutmeg. 

I tablespoonful flour. I cupful cream. 

y^ teaspoonful salt. Toast. 

Clean the mushrooms, and break In pieces. Put them 
into a chafing dish with the butter, salt, pepper and nut- 
meg. Cook five minutes, then add the flour made into a 
smooth paste with one-fourth cup water. Simmer ten 
minutes; add the cream. When hot serve on toast and 
garnish with toast points. 



Mushrooms with Bacon 

8 slices of bacon. i y^ dozen mushrooms. 

Fry the bacon in the chafing dish until crisp. Just 
before it is done put in the mushrooms, which have been 
cleaned, pared and the stems removed, and fry slowly until 
they are cooked. Serve very hot. 



Mushrooms a la Sabine 



y^, pound mushrooms. 
Flour. 


Butter. 

Hot water or stock. 


Salt. 
Pepper. 


3 tablespoonfuls grated cheese. 
Toast. 



Wash the mushrooms, remove the stems, and peel the 
caps. Dredge them with salt, pepper and flour, and cook 
them in the chafing dish, with two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
from three to four minutes. Add one cupful brown sauce, 
previously prepared by browning one tablespoonful of 
flour and one tablespoonful of butter together, and adding 
gradually one cupful hot water or stock, seasoned with salt 

68 



and pepper. Let the mushrooms cook in the brown sauce 
three or four minutes. Sprinkle with the cheese. As soon 
as it is melted, arrange the mushrooms on toast, pour the 
brown sauce over and serve. 



Creamed Potatoes 

I pint cold boiled potatoes. l teaspoonflil salt. 

Milk. I saltspoonfiil pepper. 

I tablespoonfiil butter. i tablespoonful chopped parsley. 

Cut the potatoes into cubes. Put them into the chafing 
dish, cover with milk, and cook until the potatoes have 
absorbed nearly all the milk. Add the butter, salt, pepper 
and parsley. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

I pint cold boiled potatoes, cut into I tablespoonful butter. 

dice. I tablespoonful chopped parsley. 

Salt and pepper. l tablespoonful vinegar. 
I tablespoonful chopped onion. 

Fry the onion in the butter in the chafing dish until 
yellow. Add the potatoes, seasoned with salt and pepper, 
and stir with a fork until they have absorbed all the butter, 
being careful not to break them. Add the parsley and 
serve hot. The vinegar heated with the butter gives the 
potatoes a nice flavor. 



Sweet Potatoes 

4 cold boiled sweet potatoes. Salt. 

Fat salt pork. Pepper. 

Cut the potatoes in slices an inch thick, season with salt 
and pepper. Cut the pork in thin slices; put it in the 

69 



chafing dish and fry until crisp, remove it and put in the 
potatoes. Brown on one side, then turn and brown the 
other. Place on a hot dish, and serve with the slices of 
pork laid around the potatoes. 



Fried Tomatoes 

Tomatoes. Salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Cut the tomatoes into thick slices, without removing the 
peel. Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the tomatoes. 
Turn them quite often, and cook until tender. Sprinkle 
with salt and serve with cold meat. 



Curried Tomatoes 

Tomatoes. i teaspoonful curry powder. 

1 teaspoonful chopped onion. Salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the onion and 
curry powder. When this is well blended put in the 
tomatoes and cook as directed in the recipe for Fried 
Tomatoes. 

Devilled Tomatoes 

Tomatoes. ^ teaspoonful mustard. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. l teaspoonful salt. 
y^ teaspoonful onion juice. Speck cayenne. 

I tablespoonful vinegar. Yolks of two eggs. 

I tcaspoonflil sugar. 

Fry the tomatoes in the chafing dish in two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, remove from dish, and keep them hot. Add 
to the butter in the chafing dish another tablespoonful of 

70 



butter, the onion juice, vinegar, sugar, mustard, salt and 
cayenne. When well blended, pour in very slowly the 
beaten yolks of the eggs, stirring all the time, and as soon 
as it is all in, extinguish the flame beneath. Lay the 
tomatoes in this sauce, and serve at once. 



"Tomatoes and Mushrooms 

1 pint tomatoes. i saltspoonful pepper. 

^ pint mushrooms. i tablespoonful butter. 

1 teaspoonful salt. Toast. 

Cook the tomatoes in the chafing dish, add the mush- 
rooms, butter, salt and pepper ; simmer a few minutes, long 
enough to cook the mushrooms, and serve on buttered 
toast. 

Tomato Cutlets 

Tomatoes. Salt. 

Bread crumbs. Pepper. 

2 eggs. Olive oil. 

Cut firm, ripe tomatoes into rather thick slices ; season, 
and roll them first in crumbs, then in eggs, and again in 
crumbs. Fry these cutlets in olive oil in the chafing dish 
until a light brown. Serve with mayonnaise dressing. 



String Beans 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. Salt. 

1 can string beans. Pepper. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, put in the string 
beans, which have been washed in cold water and drained. 
Cook until thoroughly heated and tender. Season to taste 
and serve. 



7« 



JLima Beans 

I pint cold cooked young Lima beans. ^ gill cream. 
i^ pint freshly gathered mushrooms. Salt. 
Butter. Pepper. 

Add to the Lima beans, previously boiled, and seasoned 
with butter, salt and pepper, the mushrooms. Put a table- 
spoonfiil of butter in the chafing dish ; when melted, add 
beans and mushrooms with the cream ; let all simmer for 
about ten minutes, and serve hot. 



Succotash 

1 can or one pint cold cooked corn. Cream or milk. 

1 can or one pint cold cooked Lima Salt. 

beans. Pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, put in the corn and 
beans. If canned beans are used, wash and drain them 
before cooking. Add cream or milk, salt and pepper as 
desired. Cook ten minutes or until the corn and beans 
are heated through. 



Corn Oysters 



1 pint corn pulp. i saltspoonfiil pepper. 

2 eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 
I teaspoonfiil salt. Butter. 

Mix the corn, beaten eggs, salt, pepper and flour 
thoroughly and fry in small cakes in a well buttered chafing 
dish. 

If canned corn be used it should be chopped and 
moistened with two tablespoonfuls of milk. 

72 



Asp 



sparagus 

2 bunches asparagus. Yolks of two eggs. 

I tablespoonftil butter. i teaspoonful salt. 

I tablespoonful flour. 2 tablespoonfiils lemon juice or 

I cupful cream or milk. vinegar. 

Cook the tender part of the asparagus in boiling salted 
water twenty minutes. Drain, and keep hot. Melt the 
butter in the chafing dish, add the flour, then the milk 
gradually, stirring until smooth. Pour this mixture on to 
the beaten yolks, beat well, and add the salt and lemon 
juice. Reheat in chafing dish and pour over the asparagus. 



French Peas 

1 can French peas. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfiils butter. 1 saltspoonfiil pepper. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the peas, which 
have been washed in cold water and drained. Cook until 
the peas are thoroughly hot. Add the salt and pepper. 



Green Peppers j Saute 

Green peppers. Salt. 

2 tablespoonfiils butter or olive oil. 

Slice the peppers, remove the pungent seeds. Heat the 
butter or olive oil in the chafing dish, add the peppers and 
cook until they are brown and tender. Season with salt 
and serve with cold meats or steak. 



73 



Braised Onions 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. Salt. 

4 onions. Pepper. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the onions, 
peeled and cut into strips. Cook until the onions are ten- 
der and light brown. Season to taste and serve. 



Tf^elsh Rarebit 

1 J^ pounds soft American cheese. i tablespoonful Worcestershire 
I tablespoonful butter. sauce. 

I teaspoonful dry mustard. l gill beer. 

^ saltspoonful cayenne, or one Toast or crackers, 
teaspoonful paprika. 

Put the seasoning, butter, and some of the beer in the 
chafing dish ; when the butter is melted add the cheese cut 
in small dice. Stir all the time ; add more beer if needed; 
when the cheese is melted and creamy serve at once on 
toast or crackers. Milk may be used in place of beer if 
desired. 

Golden Buck 

Follow the same directions as for Welsh Rarebit, and 
just before serving add a poached egg. 



Boston Rarebit 

I pound fresh cheese. I teaspoonful dry mustard. 

1 tablespoonfiil butter. Speck of cayenne. 
J^ cupful cream. y^ teaspoonful salt. 

2 eggs. Toast. 

Cut the cheese in very small pieces, put it in the chaf- 
ing dish with the butter, mustard, salt and cayenne. When 

74 



well mixed add the cream, stir until smooth and melted, 
then add beaten eggs and stir hard for a moment, let it stand 
a moment, and serve on nicely browned toast, dipped for a 
second in hot milk. 



A Scotch Rarebit 

6 hard boiled eggs. i cupful milk. 

2 tablespoonfiils butter. Speck of cayeiuie. 

I tablespoonflil flour. Toast. 
I tablespoonful anchovy paste. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, 
add the milk gradually, and stir until smooth. Put in the 
anchovy paste and cayenne, one minute later add the 
coarsely chopped eggs. Simmer three minutes, and serve 
on toast. 



Oyster Rarebit 



y^ pint oysters. y^ teaspoonful mustard. 

^ pound cheese. y^ teaspoonful paprika. 

I tablespoonful butter. 2 eggs. 

I saltspoonful salt. Toast. 

Clean and remove the hard muscle from the oysters ; 
parboil them in the chafing dish in their own liquor, until 
their edges curl, and remove to a hot bowl. Put the 
butter, cheese (broken in small bits), salt, mustard and 
paprika into the chafing dish; while the cheese is melting, 
beat the eggs slightly, and add to them the oyster liquor. 
Mix this gradually with the melted cheese in the chafing 
dish, add the oysters and turn at once over hot toast. 



75 



The ^eefis Toasted Cheese 

Yz pound cheese. Speck of cayenne. 

3 tablespoonfiils ale. ^ teaspoonful salt. 

A small glass of champagne. Toast. 

This is the recipe from the Royal Lodge at Windsor. 
Grate the cheese fine and add the ale and champagne. Put 
in the chafing dish and stir well until the mixture is smooth 
and creamy. Add the seasoning, and serve from the chaf- 
ing dish on toast. 



Warren* s Prune Toast 

Vienna bread. Sugar. 

Butter. Glass of sherry. 

Yi pound Warren's prunes, cooked Cream, 
and stoned. 

Cut the crust from quite thick slices of bread ; put 
butter in the chafing dish, and when hot, brown the bread 
on both sides. Pour over this the prunes, which have been 
previously boiled until soft enough to remove the pits. 
Sweeten to taste. Add a glass of sherry, and serve with 
cream. 



Bread Saute 

1 thick slice of bread. i^ cupful cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. Speck of cayenne pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese. 2 tablespoonfuls grated ham. 

Cut the crust from a thick slice of bread ; put the 
butter in the chafing dish ; when hot, brown the bread on 
both sides, take it out, and put in the ham, cheese and 
cream; add the cayenne pepper. Mix all well together, 
and when hot spread the mixture on the toast. 

76 



Rice Compote^ (Mrs, Rorer.J 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar. 4 tablespoonfuls cold boiled rice. 

4 tablespoonfuls sherry or claret. ^ a pineapple shredded. 

I sliced banana. 

Put into the chafing dish the sugar, sherry and banana. 
To this add the cold boiled rice. Cover and cook until 
the banana is tender, add the pineapple, which has been 
shredded with a silver fork, and cook two minutes. 



Fig Cups 



y^ pound washed figs. 2 teaspoonfuls lemon juice. 

Chopped salted almonds. ^ cupfiil wine. 

3 tablespoonfvils sugar. 

Stuff the figs with the almonds. Heat the sugar, lemon 
juice and wine in the chafing dish ; add the figs, cover, and 
cook until the figs are tender, turn and baste often. Serve 
with Lady Fingers. 



Fried Bananas 

6 bananas. Flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. Powdered sugar. 

Put the butter in the chafing dish, keep it hot but not 
boiling for fifteen minutes. Peel the bananas, cut in two 
lengthwise and roll lightly in flour. Put the slices of 
banana in the hot butter and fry brown on both sides. 
Place on a hot dish and sprinkle with sugar. Serve hot. 



n 



Beignets de Pommes 

Tart apples. Cinnamon. 

Lemon juice. Flour. 

Granulated sugar. 4 tablespoonflils butter. 

Powdered sugar. Brandy. 

Remove the peel and cores from the apples ; cut in 
round thin slices ; dip them in a mixture of brandy, lemon 
juice and granulated sugar, drain and dust them with flour. 
Put four tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing dish; and 
when hot, fry the slices on both sides, sprinkle powdered 
sugar and cinnamon over them, and serve hot. 



Salted Almonds or Peanuts 

Almonds or peanuts. Salt. 

Olive oil. 

Shell the almonds, and blanch by pouring boiling water 
over them, letting them stand in it for a moment, then 
throwing them into cold water, and finally rubbing them 
between the fingers. Heat the olive oil in the chafing 
dish, add the nuts, stir until a light brown, take them out 
with a skimmer, drain on paper and sprinkle with salt. 



78 




INTRODUCTION 

SUGGESTIONS 

BEEF 

Beef Balls 

Beef k la Kelpie 

Beef or Mutton Stew 

Beef Steak with Onions 

Beef Steak with Oysters 

Beef Steak with Wine Sauce 

Calf's Brains 

Calf's Brains with Eggs 

Calf's Feet, No. i 

Calf's Feet, No. 2 

Calf's Feet Saute 

Calf's Head with Oysters 

Calf's Head, Sauce Tartare 

Calf's Liver . 

Calf's Liver Minced 

Calf's Liver Stewed a I'ltalienne 

Chitterlings 

Cold Roast Beef with Tomato Sauce 

Corned Beef Hash 

Curried Calf's Head 

Curry of Cold Roast Beef 

Dried Beef 

Luncheon Gollasch 

Ox Tail Ragout 

Ox Tongue Devilled 

Pan Broiled Steak 



36-47 

38 
40 

39 
37 
37 
37 
45 
45 
46 

47 
47 

45 
46 

43 
44 
44 

47 
38 

41 

46 

39 
41 

40 

42 

41 
36 



79 



BEEF— Continued. 




Roast Beef Devilled 


39 


Tripe wath Cream Sauce . . , 


43 


Tripe a la Lyonnaise 


42 


Tripe with Oysters 


43 


Tripe with Tomatoes 


42 


CHEESE .... 


. 74-76 


A Scotch Rarebit 


75 


Boston Rarebit 


74 


Golden Buck 


74 


Oyster Rarebit 


75 


The Queen's Toasted Cheese 


76 


Welsh Rarebit 


74 


EGGS .... 


. 9-17 


Cheese Omelet 


14 


Cure's Omellette a la Savarin 


16 


Curried Eggs 


12 


Eggs with Anchovies 


II 


Eggs a la Caracas 


«3 


Eggs with Macaroni 


12 


Eggs with Melted Cheese 


12 


Eggs a la Newburg 


>3 


Eggs with Sardines 


II 


French Omelet 


14 


Fried Eggs 


13 


Lobster Omelet 


»5 


Omelet Celestine 


17 


Orange Omelet 


17 


Salt Cod Omelet 


»5 


Sardine Omelet 


>5 


Scrambled Eggs . . . . 


9 


Scrambled Eggs, with Artichoke Hearts 


10 


Scrambled Eggs, with Mushrooms 


9 


Scrambled Eggs, with Oysters 


II 


Scrambled Eggs, with Sausage 


10 


Scrambled Eggs, with Tomatoes . . . 


10 


Sweet Omelet . . . . 


16 


Tomato Omelet . , . . 


H 



80 



FISH 



ene McCarthy 



Brook Trout . 

Clams a la Boston 

Club Terrapin 

Codfish Tongues 

Crabs a la Creole 

Creamed Crabs 

Creamed Lobsters 

Creamed Oysters 

Creamed Oysters a la Euge 

Creamed Salmon 

Creamed Sardines 

Creamed Scallops 

Creamed Shrimps 

Curried Halibut 

Curried Shrimps 

Curry of Oysters 

Devilled Lobsters 

Eels 

Escargots a I'ltalienne 

Fish with Anchovy Paste 

Fresh Codfish Saute 

Fricasseed Eels (Thomas J. 

Fried Oysters 

Fried Scallops 

Frogs' Legs a la Poulette 

Frogs' Legs Saute 

Halibut Steak 

Hard Crabs Saute 

How to Prepare Terrapin 

Lobster Bordelaise 

Lobster i la Newburg 

Lobster, New Orleans Style 

Oyster Crabs 

Oysters a la George Trimble Davidson 

Oysters with Mushrooms 

Oysters, Pan Roast 

Oysters ^ la Poulette 

Oyster Stew 

Pigs in Blankets 



Murrey) 



for the Chafing Dish 



8i 



FISH— CoKtiNued. 








Salmon Strips . . . . .20 


Salt Codfish . 






22 


Sardines I. la George Tamble Davidso 


n 




21 


Sardines Saute 






21 


Shad Roe 






22 


Shrimps a la Poulette 






33 


Smelts 






i8 


Smelts Saute . 






18 


Soft Clams, Camp Style . 






31 


Soft Clams i la Newburg . 






30 


, Stewed Little Neck Clams 






30 


Stewed Lobsters 






34 


Stewed Scallops 






31 


Stewed Soft Clams 






30 


Terrapin 






25 


Terrapin a la Maryland 






25 


Thackeray's Bouillabaise . 






20 


Turtle Steak a la Henry Guy Carleton 




16 


MISCELLANEOUS .... 76-78 


Beignets de Pommes 






78 


Bread Saut^ 






76 


Fig Cups 






77 


Fried Bananas 






77 


Rice Compote (Mrs. Rorer) 






77 


Salted Almonds or Peanuts 






78 


Warren's Prune Toast 




76 


MUTTON AND LAMB .... 48-50 


Curry of Mutton and Rice 






49 


Kidneys, with Mushrooms 






50 


Kidneys, with Potatoes 






50 


Kidney SautI 






50 


Lamb Chops, Breaded 






48 


Mock Venison 






49 


Mutton Chops 






48 


Mutton Minced 






49 


Sliced Mutton 






48 



82 



PORK . 
Bacon 

Barbecued Ham 
Imported Frankfurter 
Pigs' Feet 
Pork Tenderloin 
Sausage a la " D. W." 

POULTRY AND GAME 
Breast of Duck Braised 
Breast of Grouse 
Chicken Hollandaise 
Chicken Livers Stewed in Madeira Wine 
Chicken with Mushrooms 
Chicken Terrapin 
Curry of Chicken 
Devilled Chicken Bones 
Devilled Duck 
Domestic Duck 
English Snipe 
Hashed Turkey a la Royal 
Partridge or Grouse 
Partridges 
Pepper Pot 

Rabbit, German Style 
Salme of Grouse 
Scotch Woodcock 
Spring Chicken 
Stewed Reed Birds 
Turkey or Chicken, Newburg 
Venison Cutlets with Apples 
Venison Ragout 
Venison Steak 
Woodcock 

VEAL 

Brown Fricassee of Veal 
Creamed Sweetbreads 
Larded Sweetbreads Saute 
Scrambled Sweetbreads 



83 



VEAL — Continued. 








Sweetbreads with Asparagus . . • 55 


Sweetbreads Larded 






54 


Sweetbreads and Mushroom Ragout 






55 


Sweetbreads a la Roumage 






56 


Sweetbreads Saiite 






53 


To Prepare Sweetbreads . 






53 


Veal with Asparagus 






52 


Veal Devilled 






51 


Veal with Mushrooms 






52 


Veal with Oysters 




, , 


5» 


Veal with Small Onions 






53 


VEGETABLES . 






. 67-74 


Asparagus 






73 


Braised Onions 






74 


Corn Oysters 






72 


Creamed Potatoes 






69 


Curried Tomatoes 






70 


Devilled Tomatoes 






70 


French Peas 






73 


Fried Tomatoes 






70 


Green Peppers Saute 






73 


Lima Beans 






72 


Lyonnaise Potatoes 






69 


Mushrooms with Bacon . 






68 


Mushrooms a la Sabine 






68 


Stewed Mushrooms 






67 


Stewed Mushrooms on Toast 






68 


String Beans . 






71 


Succotash 






72 


Sweet Potatoes 






69 


Tomato Cutlets 






71 


Tomatoes and Mushrooms 






71 



84 



1 v^ie Ti 



% 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 715 7 



mm 



WM\ 



mm 



m 



iiis 



^tm 



Wm. 



IMM 



w. 



i-liirt 



m 



m 



'^mWm 



MM 



w)f¥ 



