Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



1 






I 












1 


^p-^w^,^ 


} 








v-W 



SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM 

SCIENCE HANDBOOKS. 

BRANCH MUSEUM, DETHXAI. CRF.EN. 



FOOD 



, SOME ACCOUNTS OF ITS SOURCES, 
CONSTITUENTS, AND USES. 

A. H. CHURCH, M.A., Oxon. 




Prepared al ilu request of the Lords of the Committee of 
Cowieil Oh Editeatioh, tind publistieii for them 



CHAPMAN AND HALL, 193, PICCADILLY. 




PURNISH YOUR HOUSE 

niTD TBB BEST ABTICIES 

^v PEANE'S. 

ESTABLISHED A.D. 1700. 

DEAHE'S — Celebrated Tabla CntlBiy, Bvery 
v^-.-. . -.T-rn,™ mrioEy Of aCrlH and aalah. 
DEANE S — Eleeuu-plaled SpooDi and Forks. 

DEAHE'S— EldolrS^WTe^andC^eSeu; 

BEANE'S— IliH."uova™^?duif5'i;&*uVe9, 

DEANE'S-p.^^^ng^^^T™",.'^'"^^^^^ ^ 

DEANE'S— B™I^P™T^Q'!^d°offi^n™,mih j DEANE'S — TSn''''anJ"L™^neil'Go->i1., In 



DEAfiE'S — DjmwUoBattii'terwwj'pnrpol 
DEANE'S— FBnderB^^d FireSE,"ta_. 

DEANE'S — B°«'Si1te'S 

DE AHE'S — Rii»<leler BlayeB,'iiupioveil E,aaiI<I 

DEANE'S— 0.:^"°"""" "" 



lerior qnnllty. 



lEANE'S- 

DEANE'S— M°dor» 
BBAHE'S— G«'^' 



I DEAHE'3- 

iu"^": a DEANE'S— H^ 
=»i^ed DEANE'S— hm 



B.Aire'W^r 



/ 



■^t^ y^tu^vud Catalogue vnth J'riced Jumulang Liats Groiu omI Poat^/ni 



A Dlteoaa l <tf fl pw cant, fo r CuK Paymeuis ol ta a.n\ v^titn 






SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM SCIENCE HANDBOOKS. 

[BRANCH MUSEUM, BETHNAL GREEN.] 



FOOD. 



FOOD 



SOME ACCOUNT OF ITS SOURCES, CONSTITUENTS 
AND USES. 




^>rA- H!' CHURCH, M.A., OXON., 

Prefiisar of ChaMstry in the Agricultural Celltge, Cirmaiter. 




Published for the Committee of Council on Education 



CHAPMAN AND HALL, 193, PlCCK\i\\A71. 
1876. 



CHARLBS DICKBNS AND EVANS, 
CRYSTAL PALACE PRESS. 



/^' 



/ 



PREFACE. 

Scope and Uses THIS book is meant to serve two ends. In the first 
Volume. place it is intended for the instruction of those visitors 

to the Bethnal Green Museum who may wish to study the collection 
of food-products there displayed. Secondly, it has been so written 
that its pages may be read, it is hoped with profit, apart from any 
such exhibition of the actual materials of food. 

Origin of the A fcw words conceming the origin and character 
Food coDection. ^f ^^ p^^^ CoUection may fitly here be given. The 

first suggestion of such a series was made by Thomas Twining, Esq., 
of Perryn House, Twickenham, who planned an Economic Museum, 
illustrative of the materials and processes of every-day life. The Food 
Collection was first arranged in 1857, when it became part of the 
General Museum of the Science and Art Department For some 
time it was under the direction of the Rt. Hon. Lyon Playfair, C.B., M.P., 
who has himself done much good service through his studies of the 
relations between Food and Work. The late Dr. Lankester was 
subsequently entrusted with the management of the collection. It has 
been recently re-arranged, enlarged, and re-described by the author of 
the present volume. 
Nature of the The Food Collection contains two distinct classes of 
Food CoUection. gpecimens. One of these comprises all the usual and 
important articles of human food, whether derived from animals or 
plants. The other class of specimens illustrates, by what may be 
termed displayed analyses^ the chemical composition of many indi- 
vidual food-materials, such as breadstuffs, pulse, milk, eggs, and 
j butchers' meat Moreover, in this part of the collection the uses of 
food are shown in relation to the nutrition and work of the human 
^dy. An attempt has been made to let the Food Collection tell its 
own story. For while each important specimen atvd VV^m^Xx^Xaotv vs^ 
labelled m the usual way, longer and fiiUer descriptions, m cons^ioxciw.^ 



vi PREFACE^, 

type, accompany each g^oup of related specimens. Statistics as to 
the production, imports, and consumption of foods are also exhibited, 
together with numerous drawings and diagrams. Besides these aids 
to a thorough grasp of the subject, a set of tables has been prepared, 
showing at a glance the positions, in the kingdoms of Organic Nature, 
of the chief animals and plants used as food. 

Han of the The arrangement adopted in the present volume 
Book. corresponds with that of the Food Collection ; it is based 

on the chemical composition, and physiological functions of food. 
Both collection and book are confessedly imperfect : in each there 
are deficiencies to be supplied, redundancies to be removed. The 
collection of necessity continually grows, but the regulation of its 
growth is difficult. Not only are the defects of the collection reflected 
in the present Guide, but there are some sections of the subject where 
our exact knowledge fails. We may note in illustration of this point 
the imperfection of our published chemical analyses of butchers' meat, 
fish, and poultry. Such deficiencies will be slowly made good, but 
the work involved is difficult and tedious. It should be stated in this 
place that the Guide to the Animal Products Collection will afford to 
the reader of the present volume the zoological details concerning 
the most important animals used as food. In the case of vegetable 
products the following pages give a certain amount of botanical in- 
formation ; here the nomenclature adopted in Professor Oliver's Guide 
' to the Kew Museums has been almost invariably followed. 

Authorities con- In the present volume there have been incorporated 
oftafo'r^tion."'*^** some parts of the "Guide to the Food Collection" com- 
piled by Dr. Lankester, in 1863. Advantage has also been taken of 
such portions of the former " Inventory of the Food Collection " as 
had been revised by Professors Huxley and Frankland. The well- 
known works and papers of Liebig, Fresenius, Payen, Gorup-Besanez, 
Beaunis, Moleschott, Dupr^, Bouchardat and Quevenne, Lawes and 
Gilbert, Frankland, Playfair, Pavy, E. Smith, Lankester, Hassall, 
Johnston, and many other writers on Food, Dietetics, and the 
Chemistry of Plants and Animals have been consulted, but the 
responsibility of a large proportion of the numerical results given in 
the present volume rests with the author, inasmuch as they have been 
derived from or checked by hundreds of new analyses performed in 
his laboratory. 



CONTENTS. 

PART L—Of Food in General 

§ I. The Uses of Food ....,.•.. i 
§ 2. Cqmposition of the Human Body • . • • . 3 

§ 3. The Classification of Food 9 

§ 4. Water as Food 10 

§ 5. Salts or Mineral Matter in Food 23 

§ 6. Carbon Compounds or Heat-Givers 26 

§ 7. Nitrogenous Compounds or Flesh-Formers ... 40 

§ 8. A Day's Ration 48 

PART IL—Of Vegetable Foods. 

§ I. The Cereals or Bread Stuffs 57 

§ 2. Pulse, &c 82 

§ 3. Roots and Tubers 87 

§ 4. Leaves, Stems, Stalks, and Whole Plants • • . 97 

§ 5. Saccharine and Oily Fruits 112 

PART IIL—Of Animal Foods. 

\ I. Milk and Dairy Produce .132 

§ 2. Eggs 146 

§ 3. Butchers* Meat 148 

§ 4 PotJLTRY, Game, &c. i55 

8 5. Fish, &c . . \'^^ 

1 6. Bacojv and Fresekveb Meats ....•* ^^"^^ 



viii CONTENTS, 



PART IV,— Of Food-Adjuncts. 



TACK 



§ I. Beer, Wine, and Spirits 169 

§ 2. Condiments, Spices, and Flavourers 184 

§ 3. Vinegar, Pickles, and Acids . . . . • .193 

§ 4. Tea, Coffee, and Cocoa 196 

§ 5. Tobacco and Opium 203 

PART V.—Of Diet and Dietaries, 

§ I. Food-equivalents . . 208 

§ 2. Public Dietaries 213 

§ 3. National Foods • . * 216 

§ 4. Ancient Foods .•••••••. 218 

Index. •••••••••••• 221 



FOOD. 



PART I.-OF FOOD IN GENERAL. 



§ I. — The Uses of Food. 

In order to show clearly what is the nature of the food of man, 
and what the work which it has to perform in the body, we may 
make use of a comparison which will be familiar enough to our 
readers. Let us compare the complex, living machine of the 
human body with a locomotive engine. In the case of the 
engine, we have, first, its material structure ; secondly, the fuel 
in the form of coke or coal with which it is constantly supplied; 
thirdly, the air which enables the coke to bum ; fourthly, water; 
and fifthly, waste, in the shape of ashes, cinders, and gases. 
In the case of the human body we likewise have, first, a 
material structure ; secondly, fuel, in the form of our daily 
rations of food ; thirdly, air, which enters into the lungs, and 
serves to consume the food ; fourthly, water ; and fifthly, the 
waste-products, which are thrown out of the body by different 
channels. In both cases the fuel is burnt by the aid of air, 
the oxygen of which unites with the combustible part of the 
fuel, and in so doing the power of doing work or potential 
energy in the materials which combine is set free as heat 
and motion. In the steam-engine this heat is chiefly used to 
change water into steam, and then, by the expansion vf\v\c\\ 



2 THE USES OF FOOD. 

accompanies this change, motion is produced. In the human 
body, the heating of water and its conversion into steam or 
vapour is a quite subordinate part of the work done by the heat 
given out during the burning of substances contained in or made 
from the food taken. What happens in the body is briefly this. 
The greater part of the carbon and hydrogen in the dry matter of 
food, after undergoing certain changes, becomes quietly and 
steadily burnt in the body into carbonic acid gas and water. This 
combustion may go on in all parts of the body whither oxygen 
has been carried from the lungs by the blood, but it occurs chiefly 
in the muscles. The force or energy laid up in the compounds 
thus burnt is given out partly as heat, which keeps the tem- 
perature of the body up to blood heat (98*^*4 Fah.), and partly 
in other forms, as that of mechanical motion. All the internal 
and external work of the body is thus done by the stored-up 
force or energy of the food which is burnt or oxidized therein. 
This food, by digestion and assimilation, becomes indeed first 
of all a part of the body, and then, but not till then, to any 
extent, does it burn and give rise to heat and motion. There 
are, therefore, many differences between combustion as it goes 
on in a locomotive and combustion as it goes on in the body. 
In both structures carbon and hydrogen are burnt by oxygen, 
but in the body the oxidation is slow, and takes place in the 
very midst of water and wet matters. In the body, too, its parts 
are themselves, to some extent, consumed by this oxidation, and 
so the food has the new and additional office to perform of con- 
tinually rebuilding the very machinery which it keeps warm and 
in motion. We have said that there are waste matters thrown 
out by the locomotive and by the human body. These, too, are 
not all the same, though they are alike in the animate and the 
inanimate machine. In the engine the fuel gives rise, by union 
with oxygen, to carbonic acid gas and water-vapour, which 
escape into the air ; and at the same time those small portions 
of the fuel which escape oxidation and those which are incapable 



COMPOSITION OF THE HUMAN BODY. 3 

of being oxidized, together form ashes and cinders. In the 
human body carbonic acid gas and water-vapour are Hkewise 
produced, and then got rid of in the air which we breathe out 
and in the exhalations from the skin ; but a good deal of the 
carbon and of the hydrogen of our food remains in the various 
substances excreted by the bowels and the kidneys. In other 
words, the burning or oxidation of food is not so thorough as 
the burning which we have assumed to take place in the locomo- 
tive engine. But we need not further contrast and compare the 
actions which go on in the two cases, for we have said enough 
to give some notion about the work which food has to do in the 
body, and to illustrate, or rather to indicate, the way in which it 
is done. 

§ 2. — Composition of the Human Body. 

We. may now consider the composition of the human body. 
Everyone will allow that the body contains different kinds of 
materials — that it is built up of skin, and flesh, and bone, and 
blood, and other sorts of substances. But when we look a little 
more closely into these things, we soon learn that under the 
name of bone, for example, we have a complex, and not a simple 
material — it is complex as to the way in which it is constructed, 
and complex as to the chemical composition of its constituent 
parts. Here we attend to the latter point chiefly, and taking 
into account all the diflerent solids and liquids which make up 
the mass of the body, we find that these consist of a large 
number of substances which are chemical compounds. The 
compounds contain sometimes two, but oftener three or four, 
elements^ united together by chemical attraction in definite pro- 
portions. These compounds are very numerous, something like 
tvs'^enty of them having been discovered in the brain alone ; but 
we intend here to name only those which are best known or 
most abundant. 



4 COMPOSITION OF THE HUMAN BOD Y. 

As yet no complete chemical examination of the total con- 
stituents of a healthy human body has been made ; we cannot, 
therefore, state the amounts of the several ingredients which it 
contains, with exactness, but the figures which follow will afford 
some notions on this interesting subject. In making our cal- 
See Case i. culations, we assume that we are analysing (that 
is, chemically pulling to pieces) a man in perfect health, 25 to 
30 years of age, 5 feet 8 inches in height, and weighing 11 stone, 
or 154 pounds. Throwing out of our list the minuter and less 
certain details, we find that 

The human body is made up of the following compounds : 

lb. oz. gr. 

1. Water : which is found in every tissue and secretion, and 

amounts altogether to 109 o o 

2. Fibrin, and similar substances, forming the chief solid 

material of muscular flesh, and also occurring 

in blood 15 10 o 

3. Phosphate of Lime : in all tissues and liquids, but 

chiefly in the bones and teeth - - - 8 12 o 

4. Fat : a mixture of three chemical compounds ; dis- 

tributed throughout the body - - - 480 

5. Ossein : the organic framework of bones, and the chief 

constituent of connective tissue ; it yields 

gelatin when boiled 473 50 

6. Keratin, with other similar nitrogenous compounds, 

forms the chief part of the skin, epidermis, 

hair, and nails, and weighs about - - - 420 

7. Cartilagin : a nitrogenous substance, is the chief con- 

stituent of cartilages ; it resembles the ossein 

of bone, and amounts to---- 180 

8. HAEMOGLOBIN, a very important nitrogenous substance 

containing iron ; it gives the red colour to 

the blood, and amounts to- - - - 180 

9. Albumen, a soluble nitrogenous substance, is found in 

chyle, lymph, blood, and muscles - - I i o 

10. Carbonate of Lime is found chiefly in bone - - 10 350 

11. Kephalin, with myelin, cerebrin, and several other 

nitrogenised, sulphurised, or phosphorised 

compounds, is found in brain, nerves, &c - O 13 o 

12. Fluoride of Calcium is found chiefly in bones and 

teeth , - - - 07 175 



ELEMENTS IN THE HUMAN BODY. i 

lb. oz. gr. 

13. Phosphate of Magnesia, chiefly in bones and teeth 070 

14. Chloride of Sodium, or common salt, occurs through- 

out the body - 070 

15. Cholesterin, Inosite, and Glycogen are compounds 

containing carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, 

found in brain, muscle, and liver - - - 030 

16. Sulphate, Phosphate, and Organic Salts of 

Sodium are found in all liquids and tissues - 02 107 

17. Sulphate, Phosphate, and Chloride of Potassium 

are found in all tissues and liquids - - 01 300 

18. Silica occurs in hair, skin, and bone - - - . o o 30 

154 o o 



In giving the foregoing list we do not pretend to do more 
than approximately represent the quantities of the several com- 
pounds present in the body ; indeed, these quantities are for ever 
changing. Nor does this catalogue include every kind of mate- 
rial necessary to the human organism, or found in it at any given 
time. There will be present food in different stages of digestion ; 
carbonic acid gas with free oxygen; and a great number of com- 
plex organic compounds, each occurring, it may be, in very small 
quantity, but still not on that account without importance. All 
these matters are either omitted from our list, or else must be 
considered as included under the names given to better known 
or more abundant compounds. 
Specimens of Now that we havc seen of what materials, or 

all the important . • • , , f n j .1 

compounds which proximate pnnciplcs, as they are often called, the 

are constituents ,,.,., . . 

of the Human human body IS built, we must pass on to inquire 

Body arc shown , "^ 

in Case 2. mto the nature of these materials themselves. 

They are compounds^ that is, are made up of two or more 
separate and distinct sorts of matter — that is of two or more 
elements. Water, for example, is a compound ,of two elements 
— hydrogen and oxygen; fibrin contains, besides these two 
elements; three others, namely, carbon, nitrogen, and sulphur; 
yet no one of the compounds contains all the sixteen eleTxve.xM% 



6 ELEMENTS OF THE HUMAN BOD K 

necessary to the body as a whole — ^indeed, no single compound 
present has in it more than six of these. Before trying to find 
out how much of each element is present in the body, let us see 
in what compounds the several elements occur. 



Water consists of hydrogen and oxygen^ 

Fibrin, Albumen, Ossein, Keratin, CArtilagin, contain carbon, 

hydrogen^ oxygen^ nitrogen, and sulphur. 
Haemoglobin, all the above elements with iron as well. 
Kephalin and Myelin contain carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, phosphorus, and 

oxygen, 
Cerebrin and Kreatin contain carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen. 
Fat, Cholesterin, Inosite, and Glycogen, contain carbon, hydrogen, 

and oxygen. 
Phosphate of Lime contains calcium, phosphorus, and oxygen. 
Carbonate of Lime contains calcium, carbon, and oxygen. 
Fluoride of Calcium contains calcium and fluorine. 
Phosphate of Magnesia contains magnesium, phosphorus, and oxygen. 
Chloride of Sodium contains sodium and chlorine. 
Sulphates contain different metals with sulphur and oxygen. 
Silica is a compound of silicon and oxygen. 



The following is a list of all the elements that are invariably 
found in the human body. It will be seen that there are sixteen 
of them in all, seven of these being metals, and the remainder 
(which we place first) non-metallic : 



Case X. Elements of the Human Body. 



lb. 02. gr. 



1. Oxygen : a permanent gas, the great supporter of com- 

bustion. This gas constitutes f ths of the 
weight of water and -^th of the air. The quan- 
tity in the human body would fill a space of 
some 1,290 cubic feet, and would weigh 
about 

2. Carbon : a solid, occurs nearly pure in charcoal. The 

carbon in the body is variously combined 
with other elements, and by its burning sets 
free heat, and produces caTbonic add gas - 18 11 150 



109 2 335 



ELEMENTS OF THE HUMAN BODY, 7 

lb. oz. gr. 

3. Hydrogen : a gas and the lightest substance known. 

It occurs mainly in water ; the quantity in 
the human body would fill a space of some 
2,690 cubic feet, and would weigh about - 14 3 150 

4. Nitrogen : a gas without energetic properties. It is 

an essential part of all bone, and blood, and 
muscle. The quantity in the body would 
occupy about 66 cubic feet, and would weigh 
about 4140 

5. Phosphorus : a solid. It occurs specially in various 

compounds of the bones and of the brain. 
It bums so readily in air, that it is here kept 
under water. In the human body we find 
about I 12 25 

6. Sulphur : a yellow combustible solid, often called brim- 

stone. Like all the preceding elements, it is 
foimd in all the tissues and secretions of 
the body, but always in combination. It 
amounts to 080 

7. Chlorine : a greenish-yellow gas, found in the body 

chiefly in union with sodium, the compound 
being common salt. The chlorine in the 
human body would, if free, fill a space of I 
cubic foot and 772 cubic inches, and would 
weigh 04 150 

8. Fluorine : hardly known in the separate state, but 

probably a gas. It is found united with 
calcium in the bones and teeth. The quantity 
in the body would probably fill a space of 2 
cubic feet and 510 cubic inches. It would 
weigh 03 300 

9. Silicon : a solid, occurring in union with oxygen, in hair, 

bones, blood, bile, saliva, and skin - - o o 14 

10. Calcium : a metal, the basis of lime. It occurs chiefly 

in bones and teeth 3 13 190 

11. Potassium : a metal, the basis of potash. It is lighter 

than water, and when placed on it bums with 
a lilac flame. It occurs mainly as phosphate 
and chloride 03 34© 

12. Sodium : a metal, the basis of soda. It is lighter than 

water, and must be kept from the air. It 
occurs chiefly in union with chlorine as com- 
mon salt, but also in other compounds in bile o % 21^ 
'3. Magnesium : this metal is found, in union with pVios- 

phoric acid, mainly in bones - - - 02. a^<^ 



8 NATURE OF FOOD. 

lb. oz. gr. 

14. Iron : this metal is essential to the colouring matter of 

the blood. It occurs everywhere in the body o o 65 

15. Manganese : a metal much like iron. Faint traces occur 

in the brain, and decided traces in the blood. 

16. Copper : traces of this metal are invariably found in the 

human brain, and probably also in the blood. 

Lithium and lead have been frequently found, but not in 
quantities that could be weighed, in both muscles and blood. 
It is not certain, however, that these elements are absolutely 
essential parts of the human body. 

We have now seen of what compounds and elements the 
human body is made up, and, therefore, we may now inquire 
what must be the quantity and character of the food which has 
to furnish these compounds. But our inquiry must also include 
another point — namely, the materials with which the machinery 
of the human body is kept in action. In short, we must study 
food not only as a constructive and reparative material, but as 
fuel — as the source of heat and force. 

The materials of the human body, that is, tlie compounds 
of elements of which it is constructed, are, in most instances, 
either identical with, or similar to those compounds which are 
contained in food. Naturally we should expect this to be the 
case with animal food, but it is also true to a great degree in 
the case of vegetable products. And here it must be recollected 
that, with rare exceptions, compounds, and compounds only, 
not the separate elements, are capable of nourishing the body. 
Oxygen, indeed, is used in the free or uncombined state as an 
element, but the office performed by oxygen, as we have before 
explained, is quite different from that of the materials usually 
called food. 

It will be convenient to introduce here a classified list of 

the several compounds which occur in the vegetable and animal 

products used as food. A classification which takes into account 

both the chemical composition of these compounds and the 

purposes which they serve in the body m\\ "be sAo^v^^. 



COMPOUNDS IN FOOD, 



§ 3. — Chemical and Physiological Classification of Food. 



Class I. — Nutrients. 
Division i. — Incombustible Compounds. 

Group i. Water — The carrier of nutritive materials and waste products : 

forms an essential part of all tissues. 
Group ii. Salts or Mineral Matter — such as common salt and phosphate 
• of lime, which serve to effect changes and build up certain tissues. 

Division 2. — Combustible Compounds. 

Group iii. Carbon Compounds, such as starch, sugar, and fai, which serve 
to keep up the heat and movements of the body by the discharge 
of their potential energy during oxidation in the organism. The 
fat of the body is formed in part from fat or oil in the food. The 
members of this group are often called in the following pages 
"heat-givers," a term which is equivalent to "force-producers." 

Appendix to Group ni. Gum, mucilage, pectose, and cellulose, approach starch 
in chemical composition, and probably serve, in some measure, the 
same end. 

Group iv. Nitrogen Compounds, such as fibrin, albumen, and casein, the 
chief formative and reparative compounds of food : they also may 
yield fat, and by their oxidation set free heat and motion. Here- 
after we shall name them ** flesh-formers," except where we set 
them down as albumen, &c., or as albuminoids. 

Appendix to Group iv. TYit ossein oi hones zndi gelatin; cartilage 2x16, chondrin; 
keratin and elastin from skin and connective tissue, — approach the 
albuminoids in composition, and may serve, in a measure, similar 
purposes in the body. 



Class II.— Food Adjuncts. 

Group i. Alcohol, as contained in beers, wines, and spirits. 

Group ii Volatile or Essential Oils, and other odorous and aromatic 

compounds, as contained in condiments, like mustard and pepper, 

and in spices, as ginger and cloves. 
Group iii. Acids, as citric acid in lemons, malic in apples, tartaric in grapes, 

oxalic in rhubarb, and acetic in vinegar and p\ck\es. 
Group iv. Alkaloids, as caj^eine in coffee and tea, ihtohromwit vn. coco^, ^t^^ 
nicotine in tobacco. 



lO 



WATER. 



Specimens of We mav DOW procecd to give a brief account 

the compounds • x o 

found in Foods of cach Nutrient, following the order in which 

are shown in 70 

Cases 2 and 3. thesc compouuds are classified in the preceding 
Table ; the Food Adjuncts will be considered further on. 



§ 4. — Water. 

Cases 4, s, and 6. This important constituent of food is the 
carrier of food into and through the system, and forms more 
than two-thirds of the whole body. Water is contained not 
only in the liquids drunk as beverages, but in all kinds of 
solid foods. Here is a list of the 



Quantities of Water in ioo lb. of Different Kinds of Food. 



Fresh oatmeal 
Maize meal 
Wheaten flour 
Barley meal 
Peas - 

Haricot beans 
Rice - 
Bread 
Potatoes - 



Vegetable Food, 



lb. 
5 

14 
14 
14 
14 
14 

15 

40 

75 



lb. 
Grapes - - . - - 80 

Parsnips 81 

Beetroot 82 



Apples 

Carrots 

Cabbages 

Onions 

Lettuce 



83 
89 
89 

96 



Butter 
Bacon 
Cheese 
Eggs 



Animal Food, 

lb. 

- 10 

- 22 



34 
72 



Lean of meat 
Fowl 
Fish - 
Milk - 



lb. 

73 

73 

74 
86 



Although the above proportions of water seem generally large, 
these foods do not suffice alone to supply all the water required 
by man. As every pound of perfectly dry food should be accom- 
panied by four pounds of water, it is found necessary to consume 
water itself, or some beverage containing little else but water. 



TESTING WATERS. ii 



Drinking Water. 



Water for drinking must fulfil certain conditions. It must 
have no smell, even when warmed, but its taste must be pleasant 

and fresh. Seen in bulk it must not be cloudy 
beseentfTecoK or yellowish, but of a pale blue or bluish-green 
and of various colour. Drinking water must always contain air 

dissolved in it. This air consists of three gases — 

nitrogen, oxygen, and carbonic acid gas. Boiled water, having 

lost its gases, is insipid and flat. loo cubic inches of water 

should have from 2 to 5 cubic inches of gas in solution. Water 

should likewise contain certain mineral matters dissolved in it» 

Of these tlie chief is carbonate of lime, but there are also 

sulphates, chlorides, and nitrates of sodium, magnesium, &c., 

present. But these dissolved mineral matters need not exceed a 

few grains, and should not amount to as much as 30 grains in the 

imperial gallon of water, which weighs 10 lb., or 70,000 grains. 

It is usual to call all the different matters left behind when a water 

is boiled down to dryness, impurities, and in a chemical sense this. 

is correct. And it may further be stated that the larger the residue 

left by a water on its being evaporated, the less suitable that 

water will prove for most of the usual purposes to which water is 

put. It will be "harder" than waters leaving less residue, and 

so will consume more soap in washing without producing a lather ; 

it will leave more fur, or deposit, in kettles or boilers, and thus 

cause the waste of more fuel ; and it will extract the goodness of 

tea, coffee, &c, less thoroughly. By evaporating a pint of any 

particular water carefully down in a glass dish we see what 

iflCasesseve- residue it leaves, and can compare it with the 

are shown. ' residucs left by other waters. But this residue 

may be made to teach us more about the water. Boil down a 

pint, or better, a quart, of the water in a porcelain dish, and then 



C2 WATER. 

heat the dry residue gradually hotter and hotter. If the original 
residue is white and powdery in appearance, that is, so far, a 
good sign; but if it is partly white and partly yellowish or 
greenish, and especially if there are gum-like stains round the 
residue, then on heating these parts of the residue we shall 
probably see them darken, fuse, and burn away in part, giving 
Such strongly- out fumes haviug a disagreeable smell. If the 
oi good and bad blackening is considerable, much prganic matter 

^'^sitcrs sure sliown 

in Case 5, is present ; but if the smell is offensive (like burnt 

feathers), then it is certain that the organic matter is of animal 
origin, and is, therefore, more likely to be unwholesome, or even 
poisonous. 

Another test for organic matter in water may be used witl: 
some facility. If a water contains substances derived from the 
decay of animal or vegetable matters, such as those in sewage 
and manure, and the refuse of plants, then it is found that such 
a water will destroy the beautiful purple colour of a chemical 
substance called Jtermanganate of potash. The reason for this 
is as follows : The decaying organic matters of the water attract 
oxygen strongly when it is presented in certain states or forms. 
Now, a solution of the above permanganate contains much 
oxygen just in the right state to be so attracted and removed. 
By its removal from the permanganate the composition of that 
substance is altered, and its colour destroyed. The more organic 
matter in the water, the more permanganate will be decolourized. 
The test may be thus applied. Fill a clean white teacup with 
the water to be tested. Add about 60 drops, or a drachm, of 
weak sulphuric acid ; stir with a clean slip of window glass ; 
now pour in enough of a weak solution of permanganate o\ 
potash to render the water a rich rose colour. Cover the cup witl: 
„ . a clean glass plate. Now, if there be much oreani* 

For specimens o r- 7 o 

latere* *\«t^^ matter in the water, the colour will go in a fe'V 

sec Case 5. miuutes, and more permanganate njay be addec: 

and still lose its colour. It must be recollected in using this t^^ 



SALT IN WATER. ij 

that peaty matters and iron salts, which are not necessarily 
unwholesome, give the same result* 

Another mode of testing drinking waters is the following : 
„ . Nearly fill a clean tumbler with the water, and 

For specimens ■' 

watere* 'lestecf ^^^^ ^^^ ^° drops of nitric acid, and 5 of a 
see Case s- solution of nitrate of silver (lunar caustic), or else 

a small crystal of that substance. Stir with a clean slip of glass,, 
and if there is more than a slight bluish-white cloudiness, if 
there is a solid curdy substance found, then there is too much 
common salt in the water. It may be said, What harm is there 
in common salt? We answer, none in the common salt as 
such, but only in the common salt as evidence of some kinds of 
pollution. We will explain. Common salt (chloride of sodium) 
does not occur in rain-water, or pure well-water, except to the 
extent of a little over a grain per gallon. Of course there is 
more in waters from salt-bearing rocks, and in waters near the 
sea. But generally, at all events in a chalk or limestone district, 
where common salt is found in any quantity exceeding ij4 grain 
per gallon, which gives a mere cloudiness with nitrate of silver, 
the salt is derived from sewage ; in other words, from the salt 
consumed in human food, and voided chiefly with the urine. If 
a water be found to contain both organic matter and common 
salt, it is probably contaminated by house or town sewage. If 
organic matter be abundant, but accompanied by a smaller quan- 
tity of common salt, then the source of pollution is rather the 
excrement of farm animals than of man — or it may arise merely 
from vegetable refuse. 

Phosphates, shown by the molybdic acid test, are another 
sign of animal pollution in a water. 

Before considering the other impurities of water, it will be 
better if we briefly state the several sources of drinking water. 

* Rain and pure waters contain very little ammonia, sei^^i^m^. Biany 
"bad waters much. " Nessler's " test strikes a yellow or/'^§Bpir<rtcg8Dt^ "^'wv 
aumonia occurs in sufficient amount " ' -^"*-^*^ 



14 SOURCES OF DRINKING WATER. 

Water Supply. 

Water for drinking purposes is derived from five sources : — 
I. Rain-water ; 2. Rivers ; 3. Surface-water, and Shallow wells ; 
4. Deep wells ; 5. Springs. 

I. Rain-water always contains some impurities, both sus- 
pended and dissolved. As it falls through the air it acquires a 
little ammonia, as well as nitrous and nitric acids ; it dissolves 
nitrogen, oxygen, and carbonic acid gas; and if there be any 
sulphurous acid gas, or hydrochloric acid, or compounds of arsenic, 
&c., present in the air — ^as in and near large towns and manufac- 
turing districts, it will carry these down with it. But it will also 
remove from the air much of the suspended matter which is 
always floating therein — the dust which is seen to be so abundant 
in air when a beam of sunlight falls across an otherwise darkened 
room. Thus it is that rain-water, or ever it touches a roof or 
the land, contains of solid impurities, organic and inorganic, 
nearly 2 grains in the gallon. This is the average result in the 
country, but the rain-water of London and large towns is far 
more loaded with impurities. 

Here it will be as well to state that the amount of rain 
falling in the London district averages less than 25 inches in 
the year : it is less than this on the eastern coasts of England, 
and gradually increases towards the west till there are found some 
excessively rainy places, as in North Wales, Cumberland, and the 
north-west of Scotland, where the annual rainfall is greater than 
75 inches. Let us consider what one inch of rain really means. 
If an acre of land were covered with water to the depth of only 
the tenth part of an inch, that layer of water would weigh more 
than 10 tons : thus i inch of rain is ten times that amount — iix 
fact, very nearly 10 1 tons. A rainfall during the year of 25 
inches corresponds, then, to 2,525 tons of water per acre. 

If we collect rain-water as it falls in the country, we may easily 
render it impure in many ways. If it falls on a slate roof 



SURFACE AND SHALLOW WELLS, 15 

suffers little change ; if on one of tiles, it will take up scarcely 
anything save a little decaying vegetable matter from the mosses 
and lichens usually found on such a surface ; but if it falls on a 
limestone roof it dissolves calcareous as well as decaying organic 
matters. Further, rain-water acts on leaden pipes and cisterns, 
becoming charged with this injurious metal. 

2. River-water, — Directly rain-water comes into contact with 
the land it acquires fresh impurities. Even rain-water stored 
in tanks or cisterns may become decidedly unwholesome ; but 
when, as in most parts of England, rain falls upon pasture land, 
arable land, or inhabited places, then its character is altogether 
altered for the worse. From the bones and other manures applied 
to farm lands, from vegetable and animal refuse, particularly the 
sewage-matter from human habitations, rain-water takes up, not 
only mineral matters, but decaying organic matters. If the water 
thus polluted does not have to pass through thick layers of 
chalk, or limestone or sandstone rock, but runs off the surface 
or through drain-pipes, it is charged with injurious matters. It 
often passes directly into rivers, which generally receive also the 
direct inflow of sewers, the foul discharges of factories, and the 
droppings of the farm animals which are pastured on the banks. 
Thus the use of river-water for drinking and cooking is not to be 
recommended. It is fraught with risk to health. 

3. Surface-well water resembles river-water, but is likely to 
be still more loaded with dangerous impurities. For in a river 
the decaying animal and vegetable matters present become, in 
part at least, oxidized and rendered harmless by the dissolved 
oxygen of the water, aided by the suspended earthy or mineral 
matters. It will not, indeed, be safe to trust to such natural 
purification, for it is only partial at the best, and may wholly fail 
to remove the most deadly of the organic matters, the special 
poisons, for instance, of typhoid fever and cholera. With greater 
force the same statement may be made in regard to surface-wells. 
These merely receive surface soakage from the imia^^\a\.^\oc.'aXv\:^ \ 



1 6 DEEP- WELL WATERS, 

they are often near privies and pigsties, and not infrequently they 
are in communication with a neighbouring sewer or cesspool. 
Many years ago the writer of these pages discovered, by means of 
spectrum analysis, that if a salt of the metal lithium was put into 
certain privies, cesspools, and leaky sewers, it could be soon 
detected in the water of neighbouring shallow wells in which it 
was not naturally present. In fact, wherever a clay or other 
water-bearing material keeps up the water, and there is a loose 
soil or gravel above, it is pretty nearly certain that the shallow 
wells dug in the earth will be in communication with the neigh- 
bouring cesspools. Often the level of the liquid in both will be 
the same. True, the sewage-water will not pour in unfiltered and 
turbid, but it will pour in for all that, and mingle with the natural 
water of the well. We cannot depend upon the purifying effect 
of the few feet of gravel or sand that may separate the well from 
the cesspool. To the eye, and even to the taste, there may be 
no signs of the disgusting and dangerous pollution, but the 
pollution may be there, nevertheless. Sometimes these waters 
may be taken — it may be for years — without bad results, but an 
epidemic may come, and then these waters may spread, and often 
have spread, death around. The poisons producing cholera and 
typhoid fever are contained in the discharges from the bowels of 
persons suffering from these diseases, and a small quantity of such 
discharges finding its way into water used for drinking, has been 
clearly proved to have been the cause of a frightful mortality 
amongst persons using these waters. There is scarcely a single 
shallow well in London which can be pronounced safe. 

4. Deep-well waters are generally palatable as well as free 
from injurious substances. The organic matters which the rain- 
water has carried down with it into the rocky layers below the 
surface, have been so altered by their passage through great thick- 
nesses of stone, that they have become oxidized, or in common 
language burnt It may seem strange to talk of burning taking 
place in water ; but the process of oxidation^ whether slow or fast. 



HARDNESS OF WATER. 17 

whether it occurs when a candle bums in air, or food in the body, 
or animal and vegetable matter in water, is essentially the same 
process. The new products formed are harmless, indeed they 
may be even useful, but the oxidation must be complete. The pro- 
cess is not completed in shallow-well waters ; it generally is in 
deep-well waters. The final and harmless products are there. 
The nitrogen of the animal matters appears at last in the form of 
nitrates and nitrites ; the carbon, as carbonic acid gas ; and the 
hydrogen, as water. The nitrates and nitrites may be regarded as 
a sign of previous pollution, but they are quite harmless, and must 
occur in all the deep-well waters of a country like England, where 
so much of the land which receives the rainfall is under cultivation, 
and consequently manured. Most farm lands in England receive 
yearly in farm-yard manure alone, nearly 30 pounds of nitrogen 
per acre, and this must find its way into rivers, wells, and springs. 
Deep-well waters are usually harder than any of the waters before 
considered, for they will have dissolved out much calcareous, 
magnesian, and alkaline salt during their long course underground. 
They will probably, on the average, contain about 30 grains per 
gallon of total dissolved substances. 

5. Spring waters are generally palatable and wholesome. 
They vary in hardness and as to total solid matters dissolved^ 
according to the more or less insoluble nature of the rocks 
through which they have passed or which throw them out. The 
Rabate Fountain at Balmoral contains less than i grain per gallon 
of dissolved matter, while the average of the springs of the Lias 
shows 2554 grains. 

Hardness of Water. 

This may, perhaps, be the best place to introduce a few 
words about that quality of water which is usually called hard- 
ness^ and to which we have before frequently alluded. In ordi- 
nary waters the chief hardening ingredients are salts of lime and 
naagnesia. These decompose soaps, forming white, curdy, and 



i8 HARDNESS OF WATER. 

insoluble compounds — ^lime and magnesia soaps, in fact, which 
contain fatty acids united with these earthy bases. The alkali in 
the original soap imites with the carbonic or sulphuric constituent 
of the lime and magnesia salts, forming carbonate of soda, which 
has cleansing properties, or sulphate of soda, which is quite 
useless. If then a water be hard from earthy carbonates, how- 
ever disagreeable washing with it becomes, still the soap, though 
it will not lather, cleanses. But if earthy sulphates predomi- 
nate, then neither lathering nor cleansing can take place until 
the soap has destroyed these salts. In using a hard water 
for washing the hands, we instinctively use but little water, 
rubbing the soap between the hands wetted with water but not 
immersed in it But in soft water we find that a very little soap 
will cause the whole of the water to lather. It is not ascertained 
that hard waters are unwholesome because of their hardness, 
though much mineral matter dissolved in a water is objectionable. 
But for washing linen and for baths hard waters are objectionable, 
because of the white, useless, curdy matter which is formed with 
soap, and which wastes much soap, aUd may, if not removed 
Case 4 con- bv rinsiug and rubbing, stick to the skin. The 

tains illustrations J Q o? 

stro^^ed ^iT^ dif- ^^o^^^t of soap dcstroycd or curdled by 100,000 lb. 
Sso°o7^th"'dS^ (10,000 gallons) of various waters is seen in this 

solved matt 
they contain. 



solved matters ^^^^^ 



Waters. Soap destroyed, lb» 

Thames 212 

Lea 204 

Kent Company's 265 

Caterham 84 

"Worthing 285 

Leicester 161 

Manchester 32 

Preston 80 

Glasgow (Loch Katrine) - - - 4 

Lancaster I 

The hardness of water may be tested by a standard solution 
of soap, known as Clark's Soap Test. 



IMPURITIES OF WATER. 19 

Organic Pollution of Water. 

The organic impurities of water are even more important than 
the mineral impurities. Organic impurities, such as sewage con- 
tains, and to which reference has been already made more than 
once, should never be allowed to enter into a water used for 
drinking purposes. If they have entered, we can prove their 
actual presence by the amount of carbon and nitrogen in organic 
combination which the polluted water contains ; while we can 
trace their previous entrance by the nitrates and nitrites which 
they yield. If we assume that average London sewage contains 
7 grains of combined nitrogen per galk)n (or 10 parts in 100,000), 
then if we find 3 J^ grains in a gallon of water, it may be considered 
that the particular sample of water examined had received animal 
pollution equal to just half its bulk of sewage. This pollution 
may not have arisen from actual house sewage, but from animal 
matters in decay, farmyard manure, guano, &c. Nor can we say 
that water which has been thus polluted is necessarily now un- 
wholesome. Such changes may have occurred to the offensive 
and unwholesome nitrogenous deca)dng' matters as to have turned 
them into harmless mineral compounds — mere signs of previous 
contamination. The preceding remarks will, it is hoped, render 
clear the meaning of the expressions and numbers used in the 
monthly reports conceming the metropolitan water supply which 
are published by the Registrar-General. 

So far, little has been said about the visible suspended matters 
found in many water supplies, attention having been drawn chiefly 
to the invisible dissolved impurities. In settling-tanks, and by 
passing through filter-beds, the muddy water of the Thames and 
Lea may be rendered bright and clear. For if the impurities of 
water were suspended in it, but not dissolved, thorough filtration 
would remove them. But, unfortunately, perfectly clear or bright 
waters may be as unwholesome, or more so, than muddy ones. 
Yet filtration does effect some change for the better even in the 

e 7. 



20 FILTERS. 

worst waters, provided that the water filters slowly, and that the 
material of the filter is of the right sort and not rendered inert by 
previous use. An old filter, in which the charcoal, &c., has not 
been properly renewed, may give impurities to a water instead of 
removing them.* 

The best materials for filters are these three : — 

1. Gravel and sand, if sharp and clean. 

2. Charcoal, especially burnt bone. 

3. Spongy metallic iron. 

The water supplied to London is filtered by means of gravel 
and sand, which generally cause the removal of i grain per 
gallon of dissolved matter and all the suspended particles. 
Animal charcoal, prepared by heating bones to redness in closed 
iron retorts, is very effective, when fresh, in removing much 
organic dissolved matter and mineral salts from water filtered 
through it. But its softening effect is not of long continuance. 
A cheap and simple filter may be made by taking a large 
common flowerpot, thoroughly soaking it in clean water first, and 
then filling it up in the following way: — Plug the hole at the 
bottom with a piece of sponge, not too tightly; put on this a 
layer of animal charcoal, then a layer of clean sand, and on the 
top a layer of coarse clean gravel. Many of the filters now 
manufactured are constructed in a similar way. Wherever 
possible it is best to let the water ascend through the filter. 
This may be done in cisterns and siphon filters. 

As a filtering material, nothing equals spongy iron. This 
was introduced by Mr. G. Bischof, and is most effective in 
reducing the hardness of water (often by two-thirds its original 
amount), and in removing the dissolved organic matter. There 

* Filters of different kinds are shown in the collection. The actual process 
of filtering water through sand, gravel, and charcoal is exhibited, together with j 
samples of the materials used in the construction of filters. 



SOFTENING WATER. 21 

is, of course, much risk in trusting to any method of filtration for 
removing deadly or unwholesome matters from drinking waters, 
but if reliance can be placed on any material for this purpose, it 
would probably be on spongy iron. 

There are two metallic impurities which may be found in 
water used for drinking. One of these is iroriy which cannot be 
considered injurious to health, though its presence may render 
the water unpleasant to the taste and unsightly. This iron 
arises from the iron mains through which the water is conveyed. 
These ought always to be coated inside and out, when freshly 
cast, with a mixture of pitch and heavy coal or mineral oil 
The pipes are heated to 500° Fah., and then dipped into the 
hot mixture. The black shining varnish thus produced protects 
the pipes from change and the water from contamination. 

The other metal occurring in some waters is 

For examples ° 

of the action of jg^d. This is derived from leaden pipes and 

water on lead, see -^ ^ 

^^® 5. leaden cisterns, but it is scarcely ever found except 

in rain-water and very soft water : in these it may be present in 
dangerous amount. It may be detected by the brown tint 
produced on adding a drop of hydrochloric acid and some 
hydrosulphuric acid water to the suspected water. 

We may now consider the only truly chemical process 
adopted on a large scale for improving the quality of water, for 
filtration is, in the main, a mechanical operation. 

There is a plan of softening hard water by the use of lime ; 
it was invented by the late Dr. Clark, of Aberdeen. Waters 
from the chalk, limestone, and oolite may be made to lose 
most of their hardness by this process, just as effectually as by 
boiling. But if a water is not softened by boiling it cannot be 
softened by Clark's process, which is competent to remove the 
carbonates of lime and magnesia, but not the sulphates. Clark's 
For aiustra- proccss may be thus carried out in the case of the 
pti^ess of soften- East Loudou Company's water. Slake 18 ounces 
Case 5. * oi iies\i\y-humt quicklime in a \\U\e >Na\.^x -^ x^V^tl 



22 WATER-SUPPLY OF LONDON. 

the lime has fallen to powder, add enough water to make a thin 
cream with this powder, and stir the mixture in a pail. Then 
pour this cream into a cistern containing 50 gallons of the water 
to be softened, rinsing the pail out with more water, but not 
pouring out any lumps of lime that may have settled. Let into 
the cistern the remainder of the 700 gallons of water which 18 
ounces of lime can soften, and take care that a thorough mingling 
of the water and lime occurs. The added lime seizes the carbonic 
acid gas which held the carbonate of lime in solution, and so both 
the original carbonate of lime and that formed in the process fall 
together as a white sediment This takes some time to settle — 
from 12 to 24 hours — but the water may be used for washing 
before it has become quite clear. This process is carried out on 
a large scale at Canterbury, Tring, and Caterham. At Canterbury 
110,000 gallons are softened daily by the addition of 11,000 gallons 
of lime-water, the total impurities of the water being thus reduced 
from 23 J^ grains per gallon to less than 8J^. And not only are 
hardening matters thus removed, but organic substances as well. 
The process purifies, to some extent, as well as softens ; and the 
method is not only effective, but cheap. It would require 
20 J^ cwt. of soap, costing ;^47 ij*. 8//., or 4^^ cwt. of carbonate 
of soda, costing ;^2 lyj. 6//., to soften the same quantity of 
water which could be treated by Clark's process for 8^., the cost 
of I cwt. of quicklime. 



London Water. 



London, with its suburbs, may be assumed to contain about 

four millions of inhabitants — or four persons out of every thousand 

now living on the whole globe. London is supplied with water 

by eight private companies, which provide a daily supply of about 

X14 millions of gallons. The following U\A^ ^\e^ \Vve w-amas of 



SALTS IN FOOD. 23 

these companies, the sources of the water which they supply, and 
the daily amount : — 

Water Companies. Sources of Supply. ^^^}^\o^^ ^ 

East London - - Thames above Sunbury, and Lea 21,000,000 

West Middlesex - - Thames above Hampton - - 9,700,000 

Grand Junction - - Thames near Hampton - - 12,300,000 

Southwark and Vauxhall Thames near Hampton - - 17,500,000 

Lambeth ... Thames near Moulsey - - - 12,500,000 

Chelsea - - - - Thames near Moulsey - - - 10,000,000 

New River - - - Lea, and springs, and deep wells - 22,000,000 

Kent - - - - Deep wells in chalk - - - 9,000,000 



Some idea of the vastness of the quantity of water supplied to 
Ijondon may be obtained by comparing its bulk with that of a 
familiar building. A day's water supply would require a tank 
equal in area to Westminster Hall, but the walls would have to 
be carried up to the height of 1,140 feet, or nearly three times the 
height of the cross on St. Paul's Cathedral. And this quantity of 
water will not suffice for the increasing population as years go by. 
In 1850 the gross daily delivery was 44,500,000 gallons; in 1856 
it had reached 81,000,000 gallons, and now stands at 114,000,000 
gallons. 



§ 5- — Salts, or Mineral Matter, in Food. 

The importance of water as a constituent of food has obliged 
Tis to dwell upon the subject of water supply at some length. 
Turning again to the classified Hst of Nutrients on p. 9, we 
find next to water a group of oxidized or incombustible ingre- 
<iients, called salts, or mineral matter. These occur, as we have 
seen, in most drinking waters, and are found also in all parts of 
plants and animals used as food ; while one of them, common 
salt, the chloride of sodium, is added purposely to food — \tA^^^ 
IS the only solid mineral substance so added and coiiSMxa&d. 



24 SALTS IN FOOD. 

The quantity of mineral matter contained in some important 
articles of vegetable and animal food is shown in this table :-*" 

Mineral Matter in i,ocx) lb. of 13 Vegetable Products. 



lb. 

Apples 4 

"Wheaten flour - - - - 7 

Turnips - - . - - 8 

Potatoes 10 

Barley 11 

Cabbage 12 

Bread 12 



lb. 

Watercress - - - - '3 

Maize 20 

Oatmeal 21 

Peas 30 

Cocoa nibs - - - - 36 

Wheaten bran - - - - 60 



Mineral Matter in 1,000 lb. of 4 Animal Products. 



lb. 



Cow*s milk - - - - 7 
Lean of mutton - - - 17 



lb. 
Eggs (without shells) - - 18 

Gloucester cheese - - - 50 



It is not to be supposed that the mineral matter entered in 
these tables is in all cases of the same composition. It varies 
greatly in the different products named. In most seeds and 
fruits there is much phosphate in the mineral matter, and in most 
green vegetables much potash. One important kind of mineral 
matter alone is deficient in vegetable food, and that is common 
salt. This compound must be added in large quantity to the 
food of persons living exclusively on vegetables ; while, on the 
other hand, there is no better way of counteracting the bad effects 
on the human body of a salt-meat diet than the use of lemon- 
juice and fresh green vegetables, which are rich in potash salts. 

The mineral matters found in different sorts of vegetable food 
are not always the same as those which form part of the body, 
their constituents being more or less re-arranged and re-combined 
For salt and ^^^^ *^^"" cousumption as food. A list of the 
mauers i"foS?^ '^^^^ important kinds of mineral matter or salts 
see Case 7. found in Or taken with food may be fitly given here. 

I. Common salty chloride of sodium, appears to be essential 
to the life of the higher animals. Some plants contain little or 
the merest trace of it. Salt is diffused evetywheie^ 2xA acevmui- 



PHOSPHATES IN FOOD. 25 

lates in the ocean, rain steadily washing it out of soils and rocks, 
and rivers then bringing it to the sea. Salt occurs as rock salt 
and in brine springs, both of which usually contain many other 
saline substances or impurities. By boiling down and crystal- 
lising its solution, salt may be purified and obtained of various 
degrees of fineness — ^bay salt, kitchen salt, and fine salt Salt 
should be fine-grained, white and dry, and without bitter 
taste, the latter defect being due to chloride of magnesium. 
Common salt suffers certain changes in the human body, and is 
not merely taken to be excreted. Its chlorine helps to furnish 
the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice, and the chlorine of the 
chloride of potassium found in red blood-corpuscles and in 
muscle. Its sodium forms part of the soda salts which are the 
characteristic constituents of the bile, and of the phosphate of 
soda of the blood. Salt is much used in the preservation of 
animal food ; sometimes nitre is added as well.* 
For spedmens 2. Potdsh sdits. such as the phosphatc, the car- 

of potash salts, ' r c ^ 

see Case 3. bonatc, the chloride, and the nitrate, are either 

contained ready-formed in vegetable and animal foods, or are 
produced from other potassium compounds. Dry seeds, for in- 
stance, usually contain much phosphate of potash, while fleshy 
fruits and the growing parts of plants are rich in potash salts of 
organic acids, such as the oxalate, tartrate, citrate, and malate* 
These are changed by oxidation in the body into carbonate of 
potash, &C. &c Potash salts in small doses are stimulating ; in 
large doses they prove unmistakably poisonous. Nitrate of potash 
(saltpetre) is present in many plants, as lettuce and watercress. 
3. Phosphate of lime^ with small quantities of carbonate of 
For salts of limc and fluoride of calcium, is an essential mineral 

lune and mag- , f r ^ -r-ki 1 *• i* • ■\% 

ncsia, see Case 3. COUStltUeut Of food. PhOSphatC Of lime IS WCU 

known as bone-earth; it is a white, earthy-looking substance, 
nearly insoluble in water. It is always associated in all three 

• In Case 7 is a small sample of the salt soil which occurs near the city of 
Mexico ; also, salt obtained firom this earth by extraction with water and boiling 
down. 



26 HEAT-GIVERS IN FOOD. 

kingdoms of nature with the carbonate, fluoride, or chloride of 
calcium. It is contained in seeds and fruits chiefly, and is 
essential to the bones and teeth, which it hardens and strengthens. 
But phosphate of lime is doubtless concerned in the formation, 
not only of bone, but of most other tissues. Magnesia salts 
resemble and accompany lime salts. 

4. Iron occurs in nearly all articles of food, though in very 
minute quantities. The ashes of all plants used for food contain 

For iron salts 4istinct tKices of pcroxide of iron. In vegetables it 
see Case 3. probably occurs in combination' with organic acids. 

Milk has been found to contain i part of iron in 57,000 parts. 

5. Of most of the acid constituents of the mineral nutrients we 
have already spoken ; but the sulphates have not been mentioned. 

For sui hates ^"^ ^^ Considered that a part of the sulphuric con- 
see Case 3. stituent of the sulphates of the body is contained 
in the sulphates of drinking waters and vegetable food, but that 
some may be formed from the sulphur of the albuminoid and 
gelatinous matters consumed. 

One of the main functions of mineral nutrients is to aid in 
the transference, absorption, and elaboration of the oxidizable 
nutrients — somewhat after the same manner that a scaffolding aids 
the construction of a building. The same or similar offices are ' 
performed in plants by the mineral matters they contain. 

§ 6. — Carbon-compounds or Heat-givers. 

The third group of nutrients contains a number of oxidizable 

carbon-compounds, the chief of which are starch, sugar, and fat. 

I. Starch is, perhaps, the most important of the heat-givers 

or force-producers in human food. It occurs abundantly in the 

cereal grains, especially in rice, Indian corn, and wheat ; about 

15 per cent, may be obtained from potato tubers j it is also found 

in most leaves and stems, and in many succulent fruits. Starch 

See Drawings occurs in peculiar forms called granules^ which are 

niies, often quite characteristic of different plants. Starch 



STARCH. 27 

id a white, glistening powder, insoluble in cold water, but nearly 
completely dissolved by hot water. Its solution, when cold, 
becomes an intense blue when a solution of iodine is added to it 
Starch forms about 83 per cent, of the whole weight of tapioca, 
from the root of ManiJiot ntilissima and M^ aifi, the mandiocca 
or cassava plants, natives of South America, a^d belonging to the 
Euphorbiaceae, or Spurge order. The roots of the bitter cassava 
For tapioca and {M, uHUssimd) contain prussic acid as well as 
see Case 8. ' starch, the former being separated by washing the 
grated roots, and allowing the starch granules to settle. Another 
well-known starch is that which goes under the name of arrow- 
root It is obtained chiefly from the the rhizome, or root-stock, of 
Mdranta arundifuuea^ a native of the West Indies, largely culti- 
vated in Barbadoes, St Vincent, and Bermuda. Tous-les-mois 
is another starch, obtained from the tubers of Canna edulis. Sago 
For arrowroot is likcwisc a starch, mainly produced by the sago 
Case 9. ' palms {Sagus rumphii and S, Icevis), The trees 

are felled, split, and the starch washed out from the central parts. 
In the Moluccas sago cakes are a common article of food. In 
Ceylon and some parts of the East Indies a coarse sago is made 
from the nuts of Cycas revoluta, &c. The most common starches 
used in England as food are those from the tubers of the potato, 
from wheat, from rice, and from Indian com, this latter often going 
under the name of corn-flour. Portland sago, or Portland arrow- 
root, is a starch obtained from the tubers of a species of arum j 
while salep or saloop, once largely consumed, and still used in 
For saicD see Turkey and the East as food in Europe, is a starch 
^' derived from the tubers of eleven kinds of Orchis, 

such as O. mascula, O. maculata, and O. morio. The salep sold 
in London mostly comes from Smyrna. 

Inulin, from the roots of elecampane {Inula Helenium) and 
Jerusalem artichokes {Helianthus tuberosus\ has the same com- 
position as starch, and closely resembles it in most oi \\.% y^o- 
peities. 



28 



STARCH. 



The following table gives the quantities of starch in 
I GO lb. of several kinds of vegetable products and prepara- 
tions : — 



lb. 
Sago, tapioca, arrowroot, com- 

flour, maizena -^ - - 83 

Pearl barley - - • - 76 

Rice 76 

Fine wheaten flour - - - 74 

Wheat 71 

Rye 71 

Buckwheat, without busks - • 64 

Maize 64 



lb. 
Scotch oatmeal - - "63 

Millet, witbout busks - - 61 

Peas 51 

Haricot beans - - - - 49 

Wbeaten bread - - - 48 

Wbeaten bran - - - - 44 

Potatoes 15 

Parsnips 3 

Vegetable marrow . • • oj 



Some of these numbers include with the starch small quantities 
of dextrin, sugar, and gum — substances which subserve the 
same purposes in the animal system. 

Starch, like all the compounds of the group of nutrients now I 
under consideration, contains carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen only. ' 
It is never met with in commerce quite pure and free from 
moisture — arrowroot, for instance, containing from 12 to 16 per 
cent, of water, with traces of mineral and nitrogenous matters. 
Neither arrowroot nor any other starch can furnish the materials 
for the building up and repair of flesh or muscle ; it is, how- 
ever, next to oil and fat, the most concentrated, heat-giving, and 
force-producing of all the nutrients. To be digested, starch 
must be dissolved, or at least softened. These changes are 
effected by boiling in water, or baking in the presence of 
moisture. Thus the digestion of starch may be said to com- 
mence in its preparation by cooking. It proceeds further 
through the action of the saliva during mastication, a peculiar 
ferment called ptyalin which exists in the saliva being capable of 
changing starch into glucose, a variety of sugar. In the stomach, 
such parts of the starch as have escaped previous change do not 
alter much ; but these are finally transformed into sugar in tl^-^ 
small intestine ; thence the sugar is absoib^d itvto the blood. 



SUGAR, 29 

For spedmens Dextrin has the same composition as starch, 

Cas^*?f"°potato but it is soluble in cold water. It may be made 
preparauons. ^^^ heating starch to 320*^ Fah., and by acting 

upon it with a small quantity of malt flour, or of nitric or 
sulphuric acid, for a short time. Thus prepared, dextrin often 
goes imder the name of British gum. It is at least of equal 
value with starch as a food, and requires less alteration to change 
it into sugar previous to its absorption. It occurs to a con- 
siderable ambunt in bread, especially in the crust, in biscuits, 
and in some prepared infants' foods, as those of Liebig and 
Nestle. Beer contains a little dextrin. Starch, during digestion, 
is partly and temporarily changed into dextrin. 

2. Sugar is distinguished from starch by its solubility in cold 
water and its sweet taste. Its composition is slightly different 
also. But there are several kinds of sugar, which must be con- 
sidered separately. 

For specimens The bcst known sort of sugar is that which 

Cases 10 to 16. is sold Under the name of cane sugar. Much of 
that consumed in England is derived from the sugar beet, a 
variety of Beta vulgaris, a plant believed to have originated in 
the sea beet The roots of this plant, when of good quality 
and small size (2 to 3 lb.), contain from 10 to 13 per cent, of 
a sugar identical with that of the sugar-cane. Sugar beet is 
largely grown in France, Belgium, and Germany. It has also 
been raised successfully in England on a small scale. 

The oldest and best-known source of this kind of sugar is 
the sugar-cane (Saccharum offidnarum), a handsome plant of 
the grass order, a native of Southern Asia. It grows to the 
height of 12 or even 15 feet. It has been long cultivated in 
most parts of tropical and sub-tropical Asia, and in the islands 
of the Indian and Pacific Oceans. From India it was brought 
to Europe, many centuries ago, and was afterwards introduced 
to and largely grown on the American continent Our present 
supplies of cane sugar come from Brazil, Mauritius, and the 



30 SUGAR, 

West Indies. To prepare this sugar the canes are cut down when 
they begin to flower, close to the ground, the juice thoroughly 
expressed from them, clarified and boiled down. " Raw " or 
" brown " sugar is the first product, along with molasses (except 
where the ingenious process called concreting is adopted, when no 
molasses are formed). By refining brown sugar — that is, re- 
crystallising and purifying by the aid of charcoal and lime, &c. — 
cleaner, purer, and drier crystalline sugars are got, and it is in 
these* later refining processes that treacle and golden sirup 
are obtained. These sirupy liquids contain about 65 per cent. 
of uncrystallisable sugar, with some saline Ynatters and other 
impurities, while the remainder is. water. Sugar-candy is the 
purest form of sugar; white loaf sugar comes next; then the 
pale, dry, large-grained crystallised sugars ; while all the coloured 
moist sugars are of inferior purity, invariably containing not 
only water and uncrystallisable sugar, but also mineral and 
organic compoimds. They aire not unfrequently largely infested 
by a small insect, the sugar-mite (Acarus sacchari\ many thou- 
sands of which have been frequently detected in a single pound 
of brown sugar. Whatever may have been the case formerly, 
sugar is not now adulterated, save, perhaps, with the kind of 
artificial sugar called glucose; but sugar is often insufficiently 
purified. 

Many other grasses besides the sugar-cane contain large pro- 
portions of sugar. For instance, sugar has been made from the 
stalks of maize or Indian com, cut just before flowering. The 
Chinese sugar-grass, or sugar-millet {Sorghum saccharatum)^ is 
another sugar-producing plant It has been introduced into 
and successfully grown in France, Italy, Southern Russia, the 
United States, and Australia. A closely-allied species, called 
Imphecy is grown by the Zulu Kaffirs, and yields not only 
sugar in its stems but much valuable starchy food in its seeds. 
The seeds, indeed, of all the kinds of Sorghum are very 
nutritious, and are used, amongst ot\vei p\xr^o^e^, for feeding 



SUGAR. 31 

oultry. All the derivatives of sugar — molasses, rum, wine, 
inegar, &c. — have been obtained from the sugar-grass ; the 
lanufacture of sugar, &c., from this plant in the States is, how- 
iver, declining. 

Another source of sugar is the sugar maple, Acer saccharinuniy 
w^th other allied species, as A, pennsylvanicum^ A. negundo^ and 
A. dasycarpum. These trees of Canada and the northern United 
States contain a sap in which about 2 per cent, of cane sugar 
occurs. In the spring the sap is collected and boiled down. 
It is stated that 1,546,000 lb. of maple sugar were produced in 
Pennsylvania in 1870. 

Jaggary is a sugar obtained chiefly from the flowering shoots of 
two Indian palms, Phxnix sylvestris and Caryota urens. But many 
other palms, as the coco-nut and the Palmyra palm, yield abun- 
dance of a sugary juice known as " toddy " when freshly drawni 
or fermented, and " arrack " when distilled. From these palms, 
and from the Arengo saccharifera and Nipa fruticans, palms of 
the Indian Archipelago, as well as from the date palm, Fhosntx 
dactylifera, jaggary sugar is made. 

It has been stated that 700,000 tons of sugar, from beet-roots,. 
are annually prepared in Europe, an amount which is about half 
of the total European import of sugar from the sugar-cane. 

Many other plants besides those named above contain cane- 
sugar. The expanding buds of trees, as of the birch {Betula alba), 
yield a sap which by fermentation becomes birch wine, formerly 
made to some extent in Scotland. The following list gives, 
approximately, the proportions of ordinary sugar contained in a 
few important vegetable products, &c. 

Sugar (Saccharose or Sucrose) in 100 lb. of 





lb. 




lb. 


IWed carob beans 


- 51 


Chinese sugar-grass - 


- ^ 


Sugar-cane juice 


- 18 


Maize-stem juice - 


- n 


^■root - 


- II 


Sugar maple sap - 


- 1. 



32 SUGAR. 

It may be added that the solubility of cane sugar is such that 
two ounces require but one ounce of cold water to dissolve thenL 
Sugar has the specific gravity i '59. It is not absorbed into the 
blood as cane sugar, but is previously converted, both by the acids 
of the gastric-juice and by the nitrogenous matters of the food 
during digestion, into the variety of sugar called grape sugar, or 
glucose. 

Sugar is extensively used to preserve fruits. Fruits boiled 
with sugar yield jams, preserves, and fruit jellies. Many fruits 
may also be preserved whole in sirup of sugar, or they may be 
subsequently dried, when they become "candied" or "crystal- 
Jised."* 

Grape sugar comes next in importance to cane sugar. Just 

• Collections of fruits preserved by the aid of sugar are shown. 

The following specimens of sugar are shown in Cases 10 to 18 : — Raw 
-sugar of the crop of 1871, manufactured at the Colonia de San Pedro 
Alcantara, Malaga, Spain. — A series of raw and refined sugars from various 
parts of the world, illustrating the process of sugar-refining ; also a diagram 
of a sugar-refinery. — Two specimens of sugar-cane grown on the Grove Estate, 
Montserrat, West Indies.— A series of specimens of the various products ob- 
tained in the manufacture of sugar from sugar-beet, from Valenciennes. — 
White and brown sugar from Formosa. — Confectionery: Almonds, comfits, 
candy, and a variety of table ornaments made of sugar. — ^Various specimens of 
ornamental sugar-work, with samples of the materials used in making the 
^ame. — A series of fruits preserved with and without sugar, sugar confectionery, 
ornamental sugar- work, &c — Lozenges of different sorts. — Samples of maple 
sugar. — Samples of raw and refined sugar from Cuba, Penang, Jamaica, Porto 
Rico, Mauritius, Bengal, and Demerara; also refiners* sugar, termed "pieces," 
and refuse sugar from refineries. — A collection of raw and refined sugars from 
the French colonies of Reunion, Martinique, Guiana, Guadaloupe, Mayotte, 
Tahiti, and Cochin- China. — Also a series of samples of raw sugars from Java. 
— Samples of raw sugar from sugar-canes grown in the neighbourhood of the 
Clarence River, New South Wales, Australia. 

The specimens named above illustrate not only the numerous sources of the 
chief kind of sugar, known as sucrose or saccharose to scientific chemists, but 
they also show to some extent the processes of the manufacture, and the by- 
products obtained in the treatment of the raw material. Many of the uses to 
which sugar is put, such as the preservation of fruits, the manufacture of 
lozenges, confectionery, cordials, sirups, and wines, may also be studied in the 
collection. 



GRAPE SUGAR. 33 

as the latter sugar is found in many plants besides the sugar-cane, 
so grape sugar is abundantly distributed through the vegetable 
kingdom. More than this, it may be readily made from starch, 
dextrin, and cane sugar, by the action of weak acids. But, 
perhaps, a still more remarkable mode of obtaining this sugar 
is by means of the action of strong sulphuric acid or oil of 
vitriol, upon cellulose, the compound which forms the main 
substance of paper, cotton, linen rags, and some woods. Thus 
it happens that all these substances are now used for the manu- 
facture of grape sugar, or glucose as it is called. This glucose, 
being immediately fermentable, may be used to strengthen the 
worts in brewing, and for the direct production of alcohol. 
So spirit may be made from old rags and waste pawnbrokers* 
tickets 1 

Grape sugar, or glucose, exists in three forms at least. Two 
Honey from ^^ these, dextrose and laevulose, make up the main 

ities 

I by 

dif. 

5, is 

showninCaseM. (Jextrose exists largely in sweet fruits, as the grape, 
and crystallises out in hard warty masses when ripe grapes are 
dried, as in the case of raisins and French plums. The laevulose 
of honey and of acid fruits will not crystallise, but can only be 
dried up into a glassy or resinous mass. These sugars, as well as 
maltose, are less sweet than cane sugar. They are immediately 
absorbed into the circulation when taken into the stomach. They 
are valuable nutrients, especially for the young, but may give rise 
in some disordered conditions of the stomach to an unusual pro- 
duction of lactic acid, two proportions of which are producible 
from one proportion of any of these sugars. 

The quantities of glucose or similar sugars present in a few 



♦ In Case 20 will be found a series of specimens of honey from France and 
French Colonies. Also Russian specimens of honey, collected by bees from 
different plants, chiefly wild. 



Sd^SiiS^d'by ^^^ o^ \iOXi^y ;* the third, maltose, occurs in malt, 
^t flowersf is ^ sprouted grain. The variety of glucose called 



34 OILS AND FATS. 

important vegetable products may be seen in the following 
table : — 

Glucose (that IS, Dextrose, LiEvuLosE, Maltose, &a) in ioolb. of 



lb. 
Honey, or nectar of flowers - 80 
Dried Turkey figs - - - 57 
.Grapes 13 



lb. 
Tomatoes - - - - - 6 
Malted barley - . - - 5 
Cucumbers - - - - - 2 



Milk sugar has the composition of cane sugar, but many of the 
properties of grape sugar, into which it is converted when consumed 
as food : it also yields butyric and lactic acids. Milk sugar has 
comparatively little sweetness, and is less soluble than the pre- 
viously-named sugars : its crystals contain one proportion of water 
of crystallisation. This sugar is often called lactose, and is found 
as one of the characteristic ingredients of the milk of mammals. 
In 100 parts of cows' milk there are over 5 parts of lactose. 

A few other sugars of minor importance remain to be men- 
tioned. There is Inosite, or muscle sugar, which has been found 
in the human body, in ox brain, and extract of meat. There is 
Mannite, the sugar-like substance of manna, a substance pro- 
duced by several kinds of ash, chiefly by Fraxinus ornus. We 

Preparations havc also the sweet substance, glycyrrhizin, found 
Case 19. in the liquorice plant {Glycyrrhiza glabra)^ which is 

used as a sweetmeat and flavourer. Pomfret, or Pontefract, cakes 
are made from native-grown liquorice, the plant being cultivated 
at Pontefract, in Yorkshire. It is doubtful whether the ktet- 
named sugar-like substances, mannite and glycyrrhizin, are true 
nutrients. No experiments have been made with these compounds> 
nor with the sugar-like bodies from some seaweeds, pine-needles, 
&c. &c., which have been found to differ from the well-known 
sugars already noticed. 

3. The Oils or Fats form a very distinct and important section of 
the group of heat-givers. Like starch and sugar, they can form 



OILY SEEDS AND FRUITS. 



35 



Case 21 con- 
tains specimens 
of oils and fats. 



no muscular tissue, but their power of maintaining the heat 
and activity of the body is nearly 2j^ times, that of the starchy 
nutrients. So far as their feeding properties are concerned, oils 
are identical with fats, the distinction between the substances 
thus named referring chiefly to their condition of liquidity or 
solidity. Wax^ on the other hand, though probably of similar 
value as a nutrient, differs somewhat from oils and fats, notably in 
not yielding glycerin. 

Oils and fats may be considered as formed from 
a fatty acid on the one hand, and glycerin on the 
other. Indeed, if three proportions of one of these acids, say 
palmitic acid, be heated with one proportion of glycerin in a 
closed tube, these substances disappear, palm oil or palm fat and 
water being produced. This palm fat, which is a glyceride, is 
called palmitin, and forms, mth two similarly-constituted com- 
pounds, known as stearin and olein, most of the important fixed 
oils and fats, whether vegetable or animal. In many of these, 
however, other glycerides occur, as small quantities of butyrin and 
caproin in butter. 

The quantities o .oil or fat contained in some important vege- 
table and animal products are quoted in the following table : — 



Oil or Fat in ioo lb. of 



lb. 

Palm-nut (pulp) - - - 72 

Brazil-nuts (seeds) - - - 67 

Almonds (kernels) - - - 53 

Ground-nut (seeds of Arachis 

hypogcsa) - - - - 52 

Sesame (seeds) - - - - 51 

Palm-nut (kernels) - - - 47 

Poppy (seeds) - - - - 45 

Olives (kernels) - - - - 44 

Cacao (whole seeds) - - - 44 

Olives (pulp) - - - "39 

Linseed - - - - - 38 



Coco-nut (kernels) 
Hemp seed 
Walnuts (kernels) 
Gold of pleasure (seeds) 
Cotton (seeds) - 
Sunflower (seeds) 
Fresh Scotch oatmeal 
Maize (seeds) 
MiUet (seeds) 
Wheaten bran - 
Peas (seeds) 
Wheaten io\it - 



lb. 

- 36 

- 32 

- 32 

- 32 
. 24 

- 22 

- 10 

- 5 

- 5 

- 4 

- S 



"D a 



36 DIGESTION OF FATS. 

Fat in Animal Products. 



lb. 

Butter 87 

Bacon 65 

Mutton-chop (average) - - 35 



lb. 
Cheese (Gloucester) - - - 30 
Eggs (yolk and white) - - 11 
Cows' milk - - - • 4 



Oils are most abundant in the fruits and seeds of plants, and 
are present in insignificant quantities in their roots, stems, and 
leaves. 

Of the vegetable oils extracted and used as oil in preparing 
and cooking food, olive oil, expressed from olive pulp, is the 
most important, at all events, in Europe. It is obtained from 
the fleshy exterior of the fruit of the olive {Olea Europea). 
Walnut oil (from yuglans regid) is also an agreeable and whole- 
some substitute for olive oil. Many kinds of fruits, nuts, or 
Case 21 contains seeds are eaten mainly on account of the oil they 

samples of many . , ji i j 

vegetable and contaiu. Amongst these may be named : almonds, 

animal oils, but- 11, -r^ -• 

ters, and fats.* chestuuts, waluuts, hazel-uuts. Brazil-nuts, pecan- 
nuts, hickory-nuts, pistachio-nuts, beech-nuts or mast, cashew- 
nuts, sapucaya-nuts, souari-nuts, pine seeds, &c. 

Oils and fats are but little changed during digestion. They 
are divided into minute particles or globules, and then form what 
is called an emulsion — such as may be produced by shaking some 
olive oil and gum water in a bottle together. This emulsification 
is mainly caused by the pancreatic juice; the finely-divided 
globules of oil and fat are then absorbed by the villi of the small 
intestine. These structures (which are limited to the region in 
question) seem to pick out from the chyme, or intestinal contents, 
the fatty globules, which are then transferred to the branches of 
the lacteals in the villi \ thence the fat reaches the alkaline blood, 
where it becomes saponified. 

* Black and white sesame seed from Formosa, with samples of oils obtained 
from each. In the same case is a sample of the oil firom the Dugong {Hdlicare 
ausiralis), from Brisbane, Australia ; with other important animal and vegetable 
oils used as food. 



GUMy ETC. 37 

Besides its great use as a giver of heat, and therefore of 
mechanical force or energy, fat performs an important function in 
the body as the chief material of the adipose tissue. This fatty 
layer, where it exists beneath the skin, keeps in the warmth of the 
body ; while such stores of fat as exist in this form throughout 
the organism may be re-absorbed into the blood, and keep up 
the animal heat and activity during abstinence from food. 

Appendix to Group III. — In the different parts of plants which 
are eaten as food there will be found many oxidizable or com- 
bustible carbon compounds which are neither starchy, saccharine, 
nor oily. As some of these compounds are known to be closely 
related to starch or sugar, and, indeed, have the same com- 
position in IOC parts^ there is some ground for believing that 
they may serve the same purpose in the animal economy. 
And this conjecture is confirmed by many experiments, especially 
upon the lower animals. 

Cases. Guniy met with in many trees, as the apple, the 
plum, and some sorts of acacia, is near cane sugar in its com- 
position. It is usually accompanied by a little lime and potash, 
and is found dissolved in the juices of many stems and fruits. 
Gum arabic and gum Senegal are two good examples of this 
substance. Gum arabic is considered to be a mixture of arabate 
of lime and bassorin. 

Cases. Mucilage is found in the bulbs of the onion, in 
quince seeds, and in linseed. It forms a jelly with water, but 
does not dissolve to a thin liquid like gum arabic. As the 
mucilage of linseed suffers changes resembling those of starch 
when the seed is allowed to sprout, it may be that it undergoes 
solution and absorption in the body also. 

Case 3. Pectose is found in many roots, as the turnip, and in 
many fruits as the pear and peach, especially while they are 
unripe. When boiled with water, it rapidly changes into vege- 
table jelly, to one variety of which the name of pectin has been 
given. Similar changes occur in the ripening of fruits, Tha 



38 CELLULOSE. 

firmness of various jams and preparations of firuit — ^as damson, 
plum, and red-currant jelly — is due to substances belonging to 
the pectose series. In the present handbook we have given these 
substances under the single name of "pectose;" partly to avoid 
needless complexity, and partly because of the imperfection of 
our methods of analysis, which do not yet enable us to give 
exacter particulars. There is good reason for believing that the 
substances belonging to the pectose group are capable of digestion 
and absorption in the human body. 

Cases. Cellulose has the same composition as starch and 
dextrin, and is nearly related to these compounds. It is, how- 
ever, insoluble even in hot water. Cellulose is nearly pure in 
cotton, and in the cell-walls of many of the fruits, stems, and 
roots which are eaten as food. It is doubtful whether cellulose 
is digestible in the human organism, though it has been shown 
that it is digested by herbivora. But cellulose varies much in 
softness, texture, &c., and it is very likely that newly-formed 
cellulose may be changed and absorbed in part in the digestive 
process, while the firmer and older tissues containing the same 
substance may not be altered. These firmer tissues are, more- 
over, often of a different composition, for the cellulose is asso- 
ciated in many of them with certain yellowish substances, whidi 
are richer in carbon than cellulose, though their exact nature is not 
yet made out. It will be convenient to group them together 
under the name Itgnose. Lignose is specially abundant in hard 
woods, like box, while cellulose makes up the greater part of soft 
woods, like pine. The fruit of the apple contains a good deal of 
cellulose and a mere trace of lignose; while in wheaten bran both 
compounds are abundant. 

We are now in a position to consider the relative values of 
the several heat-giving and force-producing nutrients which have 
been described ; but a few words may be first introduced as t^ 
some points of difference between these compounds. 

The rate at which these different heat-givers are digested and 



STARCH, SUGAR, AND OILS COMPARED. 39 

assimilated differs greatly; and, as we have already seen, these 
processes of digestion are not performed by the same agencies 
and in the same regions of the organism. The greater part of 
the alimentary canal is the seat of such changes, yet portions of 
certain nutrients — especially when they are consumed in undue 
proportions and quantities — escape digestion. To give an ex- 
ample of how an important nutrient differs according to its source 
in the vegetable kingdom we may cite the case of starch. It has 
been found that uncooked starch from Indian com may be com- 
pletely turned into sugar by the action of the saliva in 3 minutes, 
oat-starch in 6 minutes, wheat starch in 40 minutes, and potato 
starch in 3 hours — the quantities, &c., being the same in each 
case. But after thorough cooking all starches require nearly the 
same time. Common sugar is rapidly and perfectly changed into 
grape sugar before assimilation ; while the latter, of course, needs 
no alteration to fit it for absorption. Fats, we have seen, are 
modified mechanically rather than chemically. 

The following numbers represent the proportions by weight 
of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen in 100 parts of the several 
members of this, the third group of nutrients : — 





Starch, 

Dextrin, 

Inulin. 


Cane Sugar, 

Milk Sugar, 

Mucilage, Gvun. 


Grape Sugar, 

Fruit Sugar, 

Muscle Sugar. 


Oils and 

Fats 
(Average). 


Carbon 


44*4 


42*1 


40*0 


76-4 


Hydrc^en - 


6-2 


6-4 


67 - 


12*3 


Oxygen 


49*4 


51*5 


53-3 


II '3 



The weight of carbon in i lb. of each of the above substances 
is shown as follows : — 

Carbon in I lb. of — oz. gr. 

Starch and allied compounds - - - - 7 52 

Cane sugar and allied compounds - - - 6 322 

Grape sugar and allied compoimds - - - 6 1 75 

Oils and allied compounds - - - - 12 98 

It should be recollected that in the case of the oUs ^xA ia\.^^ 
not only is the carbon available for tVie pioducUoxv 0I \\esl "a.^^ 



40 FLESH-FORMERS. 

force within the body, but the hydrogen, or most of it, may be 
similarly used. A good notion of the relative values of the 
above-described four classes of carbon<ompounds in their heat- 
giving and force-producing capacity may be gathered from the 
results obtained in Dr. Frankland's experiments. He burnt these 
compounds in oxygen, and determined the actual amounts of heat 
they severally set free. Now, we know that heat and mechanical 
energy or work may be changed the one into the other. And 
it has also been proved that heat and work have a definite quan- 
titative relation to one another, so that the heat requured to warm 
I lb. of water i*' Fah. may be changed into the amount of 
mechanical power requisite to lift 772 lb. i foot high. Thus, we 
may express the total heat producible by the complete combustion 
or oxidation of i lb. of these food-constituents in the form of so 
many pounds or tons raised i foot high : — 

Tons raised 
X ft. high. 

Starch (arrowroot) ------ 2,427 

Cane sugar ---.--- 2,077 

Grape sugar 2,033 

Oil (cod-liver) ------- 5,649 

According to Helmholtz, the greatest amount of mechanical 
work, outside the body, which a man could be enabled to perform 
by the combustion within the body of i lb. of each of the 
above substances would be about one-fifth of the amount given 
in the above table. This subject has been already referred to 
on p. 2, and will be again the occasion of some further remarks 
when the questions of the daily supply of food and of different 
dietaries are under discussion. 

§ 7. — Nitrogenous Compounds or Flesh-formers. 

The fourth group of nutrients in food is marked out frotn 
those previously considered by the presence of the elemea^ 
fu'/rc^M — the element which foims 79 ^aiXs, \i^ TCksaswx^,\xi 1.0O 



ALBUMEN. 41 

of common air; which is present in nitre, nitric acid, and 
ammonia; and which is so much more abundant in animals 
than in vegetables. These nitrogenous compounds have been 
variously termed — 

Albuminoids, 

Proteids, 

Flesh-formers. 

When, in the following pages, we are speaking of the con- 
stituents of different foods in their relations to the nutrition of 
the body, the term "flesh-formers" will be used; when these com- 
pounds are referred to from a merely chemical point of view, 
they will be described under the general name of " albuminoids," 
except in those instances where the prevailing kind of albuminoid 
in any food-stuff is characteristic and well known, when its specific 
name will be used. Thus the chief albuminoid in wheat grain will 
be called y^r///, on account of that name having been assigned to 
that one of the three kinds of albuminoids which specially abounds 
in the cereal grains. So -casein, another kind of albuminoid, will 
be given in the analysis of peas, and albumen in that of the turnip. 
Where the nature of the albuminoid is not precisely known, the 
general term " albuminoids " will be employed. And where the 
nitrogenous matter is not proved to be actually and truly albumi- 
noid, then It will generally be described as " nitrogenous matter " 
simply. But it is time to give an account of the several members 
of this group. 

Case 3, I. Albumen, the main solid constituent of white of ^gg, 
gives its name to the whole group. The blood of many animals 
contains this component. It is a common ingredient of most 
vegetable juices, and is found in considerable quantity in certain 
seeds. It exists in two states, one soluble in water, the other 
insoluble. The soluble form may be easily changed into the in- 
soluble by heating its solution to about 120*^ Fah., or by 
the addition oimtnc acid. It is consideied \5y ^o^^ ^V^^v^^'^^^ 



42 FLESH-FORMERS. 

to be the most easily digested of all the flesh-formers. loo parts 
of pure dry albumen contain, carbon 53*5, hydrogen ^'o, 
nitrogen 15*5, sulphur i*6, oxygen 2 2 '4. 

Case 3. 2. Fibrin^ like albumen, occurs in vegetables as well as 
animals. Wheat grain, for instance, contains about 10 or 11 per 
cent, and beef muscle, free from fat, &c., about 15. The clot of 
blood contains much fibrin. The fibrin from different sources 
is not identical in properties or composition; indeed, some so- 
called fibrins may really be mixtures of two or more slightly 
different compounds. The most important animal fibrins are 
blood-fibrin, and the myosin and syntonin of muscle. 

Case 3. 3. Casein is the third albuminoid of general occurrence. 
Three-fourths of the nitrogenous matter in milk are casein ; there 
is casein in the yolks of eggs ; the so-called legumen of peas and 
other pulse is either identical with, or nearly related to, casein. 
Casein is distinguished from other albuminoids by the ease with 
which even acetic or other weak acids coagulate it ; and by its 
less easy and rapid digestibility when of animal origin : vegetable 
casein is now said to be quickly digested. 

In the muscular tissue or flesh of many animals eaten as food, 
and in the various liquids of their bodies, other albuminoids 
besides the three named are to be found. For the purpose now 
in view, it is sufficient to know that these matters are in all like- 
lihood of equal value with the better-known albuminoids, as flesh- 
forming nutrients. One of them, however, is of peculiar character, 
on account of the presence in it of a small quantity of iron (0*42 
per cent.). This compound is the red colouring matter of the 
blood — hcBmoglobin^ a most important substance, intimately con- 
cerned in the nutrition and aeration of the blood. Perhaps the 
digestive ferment of the saliva {ptyalin) and that of the gastric 
juice {pepsin) may also be ranged amongst the albuminoids. 

Appendix to Group IV. — Amongst the nitrogenous nutrients 

found in the parts of animals consumed as food are seveml com- 

pounds, of which we cannot affirm t\val iW^ ax^ \xm^ ^^^-lorcaet's^ 



GELATIN. 45 

They are probably turned to some account in the human body^ 
but every constituent in that complex organism may be made 
without their aid ; for persons living wholly on vegetable foods do 
not consume these substances at all. These nitrogenous nutrients, 
are familiar to us under such names as gelatin and isinglass (which 
are indeed the only nitrogenous nutrients separately sold), but 
there are other varieties of them, which should be briefly noticed 
here.* 

Cases. Ossein is that constituent of bones to which their 
strength and elasticity is due; it is found also in connective 
tissue. It is insoluble in cold water and weak acids — ^indeed the 
best way of preparing ossein is to place a dean piece of fresh ox 
or sheep bone in a mixture of i part of hydrochloric acid and 
9 of water. After some time all the earthy matter of the bone 
will have been dissolved out, nothing being left but an elastic mass 
of ossein (with a little fat), retaining the shape of the original 
bone. 

Ossein contains rather less carbon, and rather more nitrogen, 
than the true albuminoids. Though insoluble in cold water, it is 
slowly dissolved by boiling water, becoming thereby converted 
into gelatin, a substance of the same composition, but slightly 
different properties. The change of ossein into gelatin takes- 
place more readily when the water in which the bones are boiled 
is heated a few degrees above the boiling-point. This can be 
done by preventing the escape of steam — that is by heating the 
bones and water under pressure. The simple arrangement 
known as Papin's Digester answers this end perfectly, and enables 

* Isinglass is most prized when obtained from the sound or swimming 
bladder of the sturgeon {Acipenser of several species). It is chiefly 
imported from Russia. Varieties of this substance, illustrating its qualities, 
manufacture, and application to ornamental purposes, are exhibited. — 
Ivory dust and shavings are sometimes used for making jellies. — Samples 
of these substances and of others used for similar purposes are shown in the 
collection. — Samples of jelly made from calves' feel, 2iiA ^^-a.Noxsx^ ^NJ^ 
various fruits. 



44' PEPSIN. 

the full amount of nutritive matter to be dissolved out of bones 
which are intended to be used as stock for soups. 

Many other substances besides bones may be made to yield 
gelatin by long boiling with water. These are tendons, con- 
junctive tissue, calves* feet, fish scales, stag's horn. Isinglass, 
though not actually gelatin, is rapidly transformed into that sub- 
stance by boiling water, yielding one of the purest and most 
characteristic forms of gelatin known. Isinglass consists of the 
membrane of the swimming bladder of the sturgeon {Acipenser 
of various species). Much so-called isinglass is merely gelatin 
prepared from some of the materials we have named, or from 
the cuttings of parchment and vellum. Thus ** Warranted Calves' 
Foot Jelly" may have been made from old legal documents! 
Gelatin sometimes contains sulphuric acid. 

Case 3. Cartilage does not yield gelatin when boiled, but aa 
analogous substance called chondritu This material contains less 
nitrogen (4 per cent less) than gelatin ; it possesses somewhat 
different properties, and yields different products. 

Elastin and keratin, and similar matters from elastic tissue, 
skin, epidermis, &c., are included in the present sub-group j they 
are of small or doubtful value as nutrients. They, as well as 
mucin, the nitrogenous constituent of mucus, are almost entirely 
unacted upon by the gastric juice. 

We are now in a position to compare the relative values of 
the several flesh-formers and allied compounds included in the 
nitrogenous nutrients. 

The albuminoids suffer no chemical change during masti- 
cation. But when they come in contact with the gastric juice in 
the stomach, their digestion commences. This juice contains 
two active ingredients, an acid or a mixture of acids, together 
with a neutral nitrogenous substance called pepsin. 

This pepsin is a digestive ferment ; by its aid, if acid be 

present and the temperature be suitable (about 98^), albuminoids 

are all converted into substances beaniv^ \3[v& x^-axa^ ot peptones. 



NITROGENOUS NUTRIENTS, ,45 

These are all soluble in water, and are not removed from the solu- 
tion by acids, alkalies, or salts ; they are all soluble, even in alcohol, 
if not very strong ; and they are diffusible. Casein before it 
becomes a peptone, is curdled; vegetable casein is rapidly 
changed and dissolved by gastric juice deprived of its pepsin. 
Fibrin, whether animal, as that in muscular flesh, or vegetable, as 
the so-called gluten of wheat grain, is rapidly broken up by the 
gastric juice, swelling up, and finally becoming a ropy, opaline 
liquid. Albumen, when soluble, is transformed into peptones 
without being previously curdled by the gastric juice; when 
insoluble, it is more slowly acted upon. The conversion of 
albuminoid nutrients into peptones, which can be absorbed into 
the circulation, is completed in the intestine, where several 
secretions aid in the processes of change. 

Little is kno^vn about the digestion and uses of gelatin and 
allied compounds. It is, however, certain that solution of gelatin, 
after having been acted upon by gastric juice, no longer solidifies to 
a jelly •n cooling. Before these compounds can enter the circu- 
lation, they must be altered, since when introduced into the blood 
artificially they are excreted unchanged. 

The composition of the several nitrogenous nutrients is com- 
pared in the following table, where the weights of the carbon, 
hydrogen, nitrogen, sulphur, and oxygen in 100 parts of each 
important variety are shown : — 

Albumen. Jg^, of mSe. Casein. Gelatin. Chondrin. 

Carbon - 53-5 - 527 - 54*0 - 53*8 - 50*8 - 50*0 

Hydrogen - 7*0 - 6-9 - 73 - 7*1 - 7*1 - 6*6 

Nitrogen - 15*5 - 15 *4 • 16 -i - 157 - 18*3 - 14*5 

Sulphur • 1*6 - 1*2 - I 'I - o'9 - o*6 - 0*4 

Oxygen - 22*4 - 23*8 - 21-5 - 23*5 - 23*2 - 28*5 

Thus the actual weight of carbon in i lb. of any average 
albuminoid may be set down as 8 oz. 245 gr. Before con- 
sidering what amount of work or actual energy this caxVicya. ^xA 
the hydrogen present correspond to, it would bt as'^^to ^\aX.^ 



46 USES OF ALBUMINOIDS. 

the various uses to which the albuminoids are put in the human 
body. For they serve — 

1st. For the building up and repair of the nitrogenous tissues of the body, espe- 
cially of the basis of flesh, that is, muscular fibre. As no [other ingre- 
dient of food can fulfil this office, it is right that the albuminoids should 
bear the expressive name of flesh-formers. 

2nd. The albuminoids contain lo per cent, more carbon than starch and 
sugar, and some part at least, though never the whole, of this carbon 
is available as a source of heat and work in the body, especially when 
the supply of the usual heat-givers is deficient. 

3rd. The albuminoids serve for the formation of a large number of nitrogenous 
substances which are found in most parts of the body, but especially in 
brain and nerve-substance. These compounds are rich in nitrogen, and 
sometimes contain sulphur and phosphorus as welL 

4th. The albuminoids may contribute fat to the body. It is easy to obtain 
artificially the main constituents of fat by the action of chemical agents 
upon the albuminoids, compounds rich in nitrogen being formed at the 
same time : similar changes may and do occur in the body. 

The variety of offices performed by the albuminoids, when 
-compared with the carbon compounds called heat-givers, which 
have been studied in the preceding section, is due in part to their 
•complex character. This complexity arises from two causes — 
for these compounds are made up of 5 different elements instead 
of 3, while a very much larger number of atomic proportions of 
their elements are present than is the case with starch — ^probably 
several hundreds, instead of 21. But another reason for the 
variety of uses to which the albuminoids are put. in the body 
arises from the presence of nitrogen, an element which confers a 
character of instability, of proneness to change, upon most of the 
compounds of which it forms part. The processes of life and 
growth, as well as of putrefaction and decay, occur in the presence 
•of nitrogen compounds. 

There is no need to enlarge further now upon the ist, 3rd, 

and 4th items of service named in the foregoing list as rendered- 

by the albuminoids. But it may be useful if we introduce here a 

fi^w remarks as to the relation oi tiie albuminoids to the per- 



FLESH AND FORCE-PRODUCERS. 47 

formance of work. It used to be thought that work — ^hard bodily 
exertion, as in ascending a mountain, in pedestrian feats, or in 
hammering iron — ^was done by the actual destruction of muscular 
substance itself. If this be true, we ought to find the proof of 
that destruction of muscle in an excessive excretion of the waste 
nitrogenous product known as urea, which is got rid of by the 
kidneys. But this is not the case, the excretion of urea not 
corresponding in amount to the work done. Yet during the per- 
formance of hard work an ample supply of albuminoids is found 
to be needed, probably by reason rather of the rate than of the 
extent of chemical change which violent exercise and hard work 
cause in the body. 

As to the function of nitrogenous matter in furnishing supplies 
of heat, and, therefore, of actual energy to the body, we have to 
remark that Dr. Frankland has experimented with pure albumen. 
Birnit in oxygen it set free an amount of heat which may be 
expressed in this way : — i lb. of this nitrogen-compound, during 
complete oxidation, liberates an amount of heat corresponding to 

Tons raised x ft. high. 

Albumen -------- 2,643 

At first sight it would seem from this number that the albu- 
minoids are more efficient force-producers (when so used in the 
body) than most of the true heat-givers, whose main office it is to 
furnish heat and energy to the system. But a 'special deduction 
must be made from these figures, for when nitrogenous matters 
are oxidized in the body, a small portion of the carbon and hy- 
drogen which they contain is carried away, with its potential 
energy unexpended, in the urea, &c., formed in the organism and 
excreted by the kidneys and intestine. Now, by determining the 
amount of pptential energy remaining in that amount of urea 
which I lb. of albumen may be assumed to yield, Frankland 
conclnded that a deduction of one-seventh must be made frotxv 
the above number. Thus the available Vieat stt it^^ itotCL \ia& 



48 DAILY FOOD, 

oxidation of i lb. of albuminoid matter within the body cor- 
responds to 2,266 tons raised i ft. high, not to 2,643 *ons. 
Albumen, then, ranks between starch and sugar as a heat-giver 
and force-producer. It may be well to remind our readers once 
more that only about one-fifth of this energy at the utmost can be 
available for work outside the body (see p. 40). 



§ 8.— A Day's Ration. 



Thus far we have considered the uses of food, the composition 
of the human body, and the several compounds which are neces- 
sary for its nutrition. Let us now go on to study in some detail 
a da/s ration — its composition, its work, and the changes which 
it undergoes in the body. 

The daily supply of food and the daily waste of the human 
body have been often made the subject of experiment. It will 
be understood at once that even with healthy adults the amount 
of food required will vary according to many circumstances. 
To begin with, there are peculiarities belonging to each individual ; 
then there are differences in the amount of work performed ; the 
heat or cold of the weather, as well as the condition and quality 
of the several kinds of food taken — all these things will influence 
the total quantity of food required in the twenty-four hours, as 
well as the proportions of the chief components which it should 
contain. But we may arrive at something like an average daily 
diet by taking the case of an adult man in good health, weighing 
1541b., and measuring 5 feet 8 inches in height. Simply to 
maintain his body, without loss or gain in weight, his ration of 
maintenance, or food, during the twenty-four hours should, under 
ordinary conditions, contain at least something like the following 
proportions and quantities of its main ingredients : — 



DAILY FOOD. 



49 



The Average Daily Diet for an Adult should contain- 

Case 22. 



Water 

Albuminoids, or flesh-formers 

Starch, sugar, &c. 

Fat 

Common salt . . . 
Phosphates, potash salts, &€. 



In 

zoo parts. 



8i-5 

3*9 
io*6 

3*0 
o*7 

0*3 



Each 24 hours. 



lb. oz. gr. 

5 8 320 

04 no 

o n 178 

o 3 337 

o o 325 

o o 170 



On adding the figures of the second column together it will 
be seen that the total daily ration is here assumed to weigh 
(meat and drink included) 61b. 130Z. laSgr. Of this amount 
I lb. 4 oz. 245 gr. is actual dry food substance, the remainder, 
more than 5 J^ lb., being water. In reality, the weight of dry 
food substance eaten will exceed that just named, chiefly for the 
following reason. We eat our food in the shape of a number 
of mixed animal and vegetable products, which contain many 
ingredients besides the water, albuminoids, starch, sugar, fat, and 
mineral salts named above. There is, for instance, always some 
fibrous material, called cellulose and lignose, in the parts of plants 
on which we live; there are also present other substances, as 
colouring matters, which have little or no feeding value. These 
are excluded from the above table, but always present in our 
food. Even in animal food, materials like membranes, connec- 
tive tissues, and gelatin are present ; but these are not to be 
regarded as essential or necessary components of a daily ration, 
as their use in nourishing the body is limited and doubtful. 

This seems the proper place to give an example of an actual 
dietary — that is, to show what amounts of common articles of 
food must be taken each day in order to furnish the body with its 
average supply of necessary aliment. Were we to mix the pure 
water, albumen, starch, fat, and salts, shown ixv o\ix Xak^a 



so DAIL V FOOD. 

together, even in the right proportions, the mixture would not be 
a perfect food, for it would be wanting in at least one particular- 
it would not be pleasant in taste. Our food must be palatable, 
that we may eat it with relish and get the greatest nourishment 
from it. The flavour and texture of food — ^its taste, in fact-^ 
stimulates the production of those secretions — such as the saliva 
and the gastric juice — by the action of which the food is digested 
or dissolved, and becomes finally a part of the body, or is 
assimilated. As food, then, must be relished, it is desirable that 
it should be varied in character — it should neither be restricted 
to vegetable products on the one hand, nor to animal substances 
(including milk and eggs) on the other. By due admixture of 
these, and by var)dng occasionally the kind of vegetable or meat 
taken, or the modes of cooking adopted, the necessary con- 
stituents of a diet are furnished more cheaply, and at the same 
time do more efficiently their proper work. Now, if we were to 
confine ourselves to wheaten bread, we should be obliged to eat, 
in order to obtain our daily supply of albuminoids, or " flesh- 
formers," nearly 41b. — an amount which would give us nearly 
twice as much of the starchy matters which should accompany 
the albuminoids — or, in other words, it would supply not more 
than the necessary daily allowance of nitrogen^ but almost twice 
the necessary daily allowance of carbon. Now, animal food is 
generally richer in albuminoid, or nitrogenous constituents, than 
vegetable food ; so by mixing lean meat with our bread, we may 
get a food in which the constituents correspond better to our 
requirements; for 2 lb. of bread may be substituted by 12 oz. 
of meat, and yet all the necessary carbon as well as nitrogen be 
thereby supplied. As such a substitution is often too expensive, 
owing to the high price of meat, cheese, which is twice as rich 
in nitrogenous matters (that is flesh-formers) as butchers' meat^ 
may be, and constantly is, employed with bread as a complete 
diet, and for persons in health, doing hard bodily work, it aflbrds 
litable nourishment Even some vegetable products, rich in 



A DAY'S RATION. 



51 



nitrogen, as haricot beans, may be used in the same way as meat 
or cheese, and for the same purpose. 

Such a mixed daily diet as we have been referring to might 
be fumished by the following foods if consumed in the quantities 
here given : — 



1. Bread 

2. Butter 

3. Milk 

4. Bacon 

5. Potatoes 

6. Cabbage 

7. Cheese 

8. Sugar 

9. Salt 
10. Water, alone, and in Tea, 

Coflfee, Beer - - -. 



oz. 
18 



I 

4 
2 

8 

6 

I 



Altogether these quan- 
tities will contain about 

I lb. sH <^' 9f ^ry ^' 

stance^ though they weigh 
in all d lb. i^}ioz. 



It will be seen that the weight of this daily ration exceeds 
by I oz. — even when the solid matter contained in beverages 
is omitted — ^that given before (on p. 49) ; this excess is mainly 
owing to the fact, previously mentioned, that in all articles of food 
actually used there are small quantities of matters (cellulose, &c.) 
which cannot be reckoned as having a real feeding value. And 
it must not be forgotten that the several common proximate 
principles which can and do supply the greater part of the heat of 
the body have not all the same value for such a purpose. Of 
starch and dextrin we should require rather less than of sugar for 
the production of the same amount of force, while i oz. of fat 
or oil will go nearly as far as 2}i oz. of starch. This allows 
of much variation in our daily food, since we may replace, to a 
certab extent, a portion of the fat in our rations by its equivalent 
quantity of starch or dextrin or sugar — or we may diminish the 
starch and increase the fat. In the former case the dry substance 
of our food might come to weigh 4 or 5 oz. more than the. 
20 J^ oz. mentioned hefoiQ'^ in the latter case \l ^ovA^ ^€v^ 



-R a 



52 DAILY WASTE OF THE BODY. 

Suppose, for instance, we were to take, daily, no more than 
3 oz. of fat in any form, we should have to add about 2}^ oz. 
of starch or sugar to compensate for this reduction, thus con- 
suming 14 oz. of the latter instead of it J^. 

Here it may be asked — " Which of the articles of the above 
mixed diet give the several components of food which we require 
each day ? " A sufficient answer to this inquiry may be gained 
by referring to the composition of the several articles of food 
named, as given in this Guide, and as shown in the Cases of the 
Food Collection. Here it will be enough to state that the bread 
consumed chiefly supplies starch, but along with this a good deal 
of albuminoid substance ; the milk gives fat, albuminoids, and a 
sugar, having nearly the same value as starch ; the cheese contains 
much fat and albuminoid substance ; the bacon and butter chiefly 
furnish fat; while the other articles in the list either give further 
supplies of these food-components, or else the mineral matter or 
salts which are required. The first seven articles in the list will 
likewise contain about i lb. 6J^ oz. of water, which, with that 
supplied in various beverages, will furnish the 5 lb. 8J^ oz. daily 
necessary. 

Before considering different foods and dietaries, it will be as 
well if we now pay some attention to the waste of the body. We 
will endeavour to answer the question : What becomes of our 
food after it has been digested and assimilated, and has done its 
work in our bodies? We have seen what is the amount, and 
what the composition of the daily in-goings, or food ; let us see 
what is the amount and the nature of the out-goings, or waste. 
Before we can make the comparison, we must recur for a moment 
to the general nature of the final change which food undergoes in 
the body. That change, we have before shown, is in the main 
one of burning, or, as it is called in chemical language, oxidation* 
It is the uniting of certain elements contained in the food — chiefly 
carbon and hydrogen — with oxygen, brought into the lungs by the 
act of breathing. The air, then, is, in a sense, part of our food, 



DAILY SUPPLY OF THE BODY. 



53 



and forms a large part of the daily in-come of the body. As the 
oxygen taken in unites with the carbon and hydrogen of the food, 
we must not expect to find that the proximate principles consti- 
tuting the main mass of our daily food will be found in any 
quantity in the daily waste. How then can we compare the 
in-goings and the out-goings ? Why, by considering the amounts 
of the chief elements of which the proximate principles consist, 
and comparing them with the amounts of the same elements which 
are discharged in the oxidized waste of the body. In accordance 
with this way of representing the facts, we now give in a tabular 
form the daily supply and waste of the human body. First, we 
set down the weight of the several elements which make up the 
necessary daily food or 

Case 23. 

Daily Supply. 

lb. oz. gr. lb. oz. gr. 
Oxygen in the air breathed - - - i 10 115 
Oxygen in starch, albuminoids, and fat - o 7 370 

* Mil I ■ I 

Total oxygen - - - - 2 2 47 

Gurbon in fat, starch, albuminoids 09 400 

Hydrogen in the same oil 70 

Nitrogen in albuminoids 00 291 

Common salt 00 325 

Phosphates, potash salts, &c. 001 70 

Water 5 8 320 

Total daily supply ... 87 410 

It will be here seen that four elements only are set down in the 
separate form as elements in the above table. These are oxygen, 
carbon, hydrogen, and nitrogen, so far as these elements enter 
into the composition of, that is, form part of, the proximate prin- 
ciples which we consume as our food, and which we change into 
new compounds in the body. The salt and other minerals of the 
food, together with the water we consume, are not so changed, 
and therefore these substances are not resolved into their elements 
in the table of Daily Supply, nor in that whidi ioWo^^^ x^^x^- 



54 DAILY WASTE OF THE BODY. 

Case 23. 

Daily Waste, 

lb. oz. gr. lb. oz. gr. 
Oxygen in the carbonic acid gas given out by the 

lungs 17 325 

Oxygen in the carbonic acid gas given out by the 

skin o o III 

Oxygen in the organic matter given out by the kid- 

nejrs and intestine 00 357- 

Oxygen in the water formed in the body - - - o 9 130 

Total oxygen in waste - - - - 2 2 47 

Carbon in the carl)onic acid gas given out by the 

lungs 08 320 

Carbon in the carbonic acid gas given out by the 

skin 00 40 

Carbon in the organic matter given out by the 

kidneys 00 170 

Carbon in the organic matter given out by the in- 
testine 00 308 

Total carbon in waste 09400 

Hydrogen in the water formed in the body, and 

given out by the lungs and skin - - - o I 70 

Hydrogen in the organic compounds given out by 

the kidneys and intestine 00 100 

Total hydrogen foimd in the water formed, 
and in the organic matter of the waste - o I 170 

Nitrogen in urea and other waste given out by 

the kidneys 00 245 

Nitrogen in waste given out by the intestine - - o o 46 

Total nitrogen in waste _ - . . o o 291 

Common salt given out by the skin - - - -ooio 
Common salt given out by the kidnejrs - - -00315 

Total common salt in waste - - - - o o 325 

Phosphates and potash salts given out by the kidneys 

(chiefly) o O 170 

Water taken in as such, and given out by the lungs, 
skin, kidneys, and intestine, in addition to that 
formed in the body S^ V-^ 

Total daily waste 8 7 410 

These figures, then, represent the daily balance-sheet of the 
income and expenditure of a human body — not exactly and per- 
fectly, but with a fair approach to truth. During the changes, 
mainly of oxidation, or burning, -wYiidi ai^ ^Vvomi \yj iVva new 



RECAPITULATION. 55 

compounds found in the waste and not in the supply, it is cal- 
inilated that an amount of force is available, in one form or another 
of heat or mechanical work, which may be expressed as 3,950 tons 
raised i ft high. 

Let us briefly restate the main facts concerning the food of 
man which we have been discussing in the preceding pages. 

1. Food is required to increase or repair the materials of the 
body; to keep it warm, and to endow it with a renewal of working 
power. 

2. The materials of the human body are arranged in many 
compound substances. These are made up of 16 elements; the 
same elements generally arranged in similar compounds being 
found in food. 

3. Food substances, or nutrients, fall into two groups — the in- 
combustible or oxidized, and the combustible or oxidizable. 
Water and salts belong to the former ; starch, sugar, fat, and com- 
pounds like the albumen of eggs, to the latter. 

4. Incombustible nutrients serve several purposes, forming a 
permanent part of the body, and also acting as a means of 
carrying on the processes of nutrition. 

5. Combustible nutrients are burnt more or less completely 
within the body by means of the oxygen taken into the lungs. 
The power of doing work, or potential energy, stored up in these 
nutrients and in the oxygen, is thus changed into the actual 
energy of heat and mechanical power. Thus the warmth of the 
body is maintained, and work done both internal and ex- 
ternal 

6. Combustible nutrients increase or replace the fat, muscle, 
fe., of the body. 

7. The daily waste of the body must be met by a dajly 
^pply of nutrients in the daily ration of food. In an adult the 
supply and waste are equal in amount, but different in the nature 
of the compounds, though identical if the e\eix\eti\.^ ^^ cciw- 
sidered 



56 RECAPITULATION. 

8. The daily ration must contain the various nutrients re- 
quired in due proportions of flesh-formers, heat-givers, saline 
matter, and water. The ratio may be expressed in numbers 
thus : — 



Water. Flesh-formers. ^rs^ch"' ^*^^*- 

25 iX 5K oX 



PART IL-OF VEGETABLE FOODS. 



THOUGH repeated reference has been made already to different 
etable products, we have not given as yet any account of the 
mical composition of particular kinds of plants, or of those 
ts of plants used for human food. But as the compounds 
ch make up nearly the whole of every vegetable have been 
cribed, and their respective uses as nutrients discussed, the 
^ has been cleared for the study of some of the most im- 
tant actual foods, such as wheat, peas, cabbage, and turnips. 
t review of these vegetable foods having been completed, 
ds of animal origin — ^milk, cheese, eggs, bacon, and butchers' 
It — ^will also be described in Part III, from a chemical point 
view. And then in Part IV. will be given some account of 
composition and characteristics of alcoholic liquors, tea, to- 
co, and various condiments and spices — of the accompani- 
Its of food or " food-adjuncts," as we have named them. 

§ I. — The Cereals. 

Naturally we give the first place to the breadstuffs — wheat, 
5, rice, and other grains — the fruit of certain plants belonging 
the Grass Order, or Graminacecs* 

• Cases 24 to 36 inclusive. A collection of many of the varieties 
wheat, oats, and barley cultivated in Great Britain, and various 
ign countries — in the straw and ear, and also in grain. — A collection of 
pies of wheat, barley, maize, oats, &c., from the Argetvt\iw& Bjt^xiJcXv:., 
th America. — Samples of wheat, barley, oats, rye, and Ta.a\2.^, ^qtwtwVcl 
hties bordering on the line of the North Pacific Railwaty, \Sm\.^d SVaXftS- 



58 VARIETIES OF WHEAT. 

Wheat. 

French, Ble, German, Wetzen. Italian, Frummto, 

{Triticum vulgar e?^ 

Wheat is an annual grass, of unknown origin. Numerous 
varieties of it are now in cultivation in nearly all temperate 
countries. It flourishes between the parallels of 25 and 60 
degrees of latitude. It is more extensively grown in the northern 
than in the southern hemisphere. 

There are more than 150 named varieties of wheat, but in 
many cases the distinctions between them are very slight. The 
most important differences are those which refer to the composition 
of the grain ; but it will be found that these do not always agree 
with the outward characters of the grain or the ear. Wheats are 
generally characterised by some such terms as the following : Red 
or white, in reference to the colour of the grain ; bearded or 
beardless, that is with or without an awn ; winter or summer, 
the former being sown in autumn, the latter in spring ; soft or 
hard, the soft wheats being tender and floury, the hard being 
tough, firm, and horn-like in appearance. This last distinction is 
the most important, as it corresponds to a real diflerence of 
chemical constituents and of feeding value. We shall recur to 
this point presently. 

Cases 34 to 29.* 

The average yield of an acre of land should be about 30 
bushels of wheat grain, the bushel weighing 60 lb. In wet seasons 
the weight of a bushel of wheat grain may be as low as 55 lb. ; 
while in good years it may rise to 64 lb. A plump, rounded, white, 
smooth grain, without wrinkles, gives the heaviest weight per 

• Various samples of wheat grown in South Australia in 1872. — Frame con- 
taining 104 varieties of wheat cultivated in Great Britain and elsewhere. — 
Samples of the various products obtained from wheat, and the quantities of 
flour, pollard, and bran obtained from half a peck of wheat Wheat is 
subject to the attacks of several forms of fungi, as seen in the diagrams. They 
are known to the farmer by the name of rust^ mildew^ smut, and bunt. 



COMPOSITION OF WHEAT. 59 

bushel. Wheat grain varies in specific gravity between i'29 and 
I '41, the harder wheats being the denser. The proportion of 
grain to straw is greatest in dry years — ^perhaps the average may be 
stated as 4 to 10. 

The composition of wheat grain shows some variations, but 
they are limited to the relative proportions of starch and nitro- 
genous matters. Soft, white, and tender varieties of wheat, con- 
sisting entirely of opaque grains, may not contain more than 8 or 
9 per cent albuminoids ; while hard and translucent sorts, such 
as those grown for the manufacture of macaroni, have been found 
to contain from 18 to 20 per cent. The starch in these latter 
grains is proportionately reduced. But differences in the com- 
position of wheat grain show themselves with the same variety of 
wheat, when it has been grown under different conditions, in 
fine, dry seasons the starch being increased and the albuminoids 
diminished, and the reverse being the case in wet summers. 
Even in the grains from a single ear, the same differences may be 
often seen — analysis showing sometimes 4 per cent, more albu- 
minoids in some of such grains than in others. 

It is difficult to fix upon a set of figures which shall fairly 
represent the average composition of wheat grain. But the 
following analysis may be taken as showing the proportions of the 
main constituents in a good sample of white English wheat : — 



Composition of Wheat. 

Case 37. In xoo parts. 

Water 14-5 

Albmninoids, chiefly fibrin ii'o 

Starch, with trace of dextrin 69*0 

Fat 1*2 

Cellulose and lignose 2*6 

Mineral matter, or ash 17 



According to this analysis, wheat contains i part of flesh- 
fomiers to 6^ parts of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. And if 



In 


lib. 


oz. 


gr. 


2 


140 


I 


332 


II 


17 





84 





182 





119 



6o WHEAT. 

we assume that all the albuminoid matter present could be so 
used, not more than i^ oz. of the dry nitrogenous substance of 
muscle or flesh could be produced from i lb. of wheat grain, sudi 
as is represented by the above analysis. The long, hard, trans- 
Cases 40 and 4i.» lucent wheats grown in some of the hotter parts of 
Europe, might furnish twice as much flesh-forming material from 
an equal weight of grain. Macaroni, vermicelli, p^tes d'ltalie, 
and similar preparations are made from highly nitrogenous wheats. 

Some notion of the importance of wheat as a food-stuff" may 
be gathered from the following figures. In 1875 there were 
about 3,350,000 acres under wheat in Great Britain. But the 
produce of all this land did not suffice for the needs of the 
people, and the produce of about 4,500,000 acres in foreign 
countries had to be brought to the United Kingdom — the United 
States and Russia contributing most of this foreign supply. Alto- 
gether, something like 5,000,000 tons of wheat are annually con- 
sumed in Great Britain. Then, too, it should be remembered 
that large quantities of wheaten flour and other preparations of 
wheat reach this country from abroad. 

There are several reasons why wheat is preferred to other 
cereal grasses for use as food. The grain is easily separated 
from the palece or chaff", which do not adhere to it as in the 
case of barley, oats, rice, &c. Then the yield of fine white flour, 
when wheat is ground in the mill, is very large. Wheaten flour, 
too, is readily made into a light and spongy bread. The chemical 
constituents of the wheat grain are likewise so proportioned as to 
render this food well fitted for the general sustenance of man^ 
both as regards its flesh-forming and heat and force-producing 
character. 

Mill-Products. 

But wheat grain is nearly always prepared by some mechanical 

• Samples of macaroni, vermicelli, and other Italian pastes, made from th^ 
£our of hard wheat, grown in Algeria, — Macaroni, vermicelli, semolina, &Cy 
prepared from wheaten flour, from Port\iga\, WsIVyj'FTaitfifc, %lc. 



MILL-FROnUCTS FROM WHEAT. 6i 

process or other before it is eaten as human food. Frumity, 
however, once popular in England, and still occasionally seen in 
Yorkshire, was made from whole wheat grains soaked in water 
and then boiled in milk. By grinding wheat between millstones 
meal is produced ; and this, by sifting, winnowing, and re-grinding, 
is separated into a number of mill-products differing, not only in 
the size of the particles of which they are made up, but also 
in their chemical composition. To understand this we must 
examine the structure of the wheat grain, which is in reality a 
fruit, consisting of a seed and its coverings. All the middle part 
of the grain is occupied by large thin cells full of a powdery sub- 
stance, which is nearly white and opaque in soft wheats. This 
part contains much starch — indeed, nearly all the starch of the 
grain. Outside the central starchy mass is a single row of squarish 
cells, filled with a yellowish material very rich in nitrogenous — 
that is, flesh-forming — ^matter. Beyond this again there are six 
thin coverings or coats containing much mineral matter. This 
mineral matter contains both potash and phosphates. It should 
be added that the outermost coat of the above-named six coats is 
the least valuable, and in some processes of milling is removed by 
a previous operation. In Child's " Decorticator," for example, 
this thin bran, together with the germ of the grain, is first of all 
removed. In the process of M^ge Mourids, also, this thin and 
poor outer coat is removed, but by a different plan — the grain 
being first damped and then rubbed. What then will be the 
effect of grinding upon grain having the structure just described ? 
Grinding may be described as a process in which squeezes and 
blows are imited. In pressing or squeezing wheat you may 
powder the interior, and yet not break up the exterior part ; by 
blows you may divide the grain into a number of small fragments 
—a coarse meal, in which the white central portion of the grain is 
not reduced to powder. Now there are several modes of milling 
or grinding wheat, differing mainly in the prepondeiaaxc^ o^ oxi^ 
or other of these two actions of squeezing and cx3lc^\xv.%. ^^ 



62 FLOUR AND BRAN. 

alterations in the distance between the stones, and by differences 
in the modes of scoring them, as well as in their direction and 
rate of motion, mill-products of different qualities are obtainable. 
The methods of "high-milling" have, indeed, become so com- 
plicated that it would be impossible to describe here the scores of 
operations, including many re-grindings and siftings, to which the 
grain is submitted. But we may at least say that, though a very 
fine white flour is certainly produced by this system, it is 6r 
smaller in quantity and less nutritious than fine white flour ob- 
tained by the ordinary English system. However, one advantage 
is said to belong to the more elaborate system, and that is that 
the various mill-products are not injured by over-heating during 
the treatment to which they are subjected. 

In the ordinary process of milling the wheat meal is produced 
in one grinding, and is then separated into three or more different 
products. In some flour mills the separation of the various 
qualities is far more thoroughly carried out than in others. The 
following is a classified list of the chief products of a flour mill, 
with the average quantities of each product obtained from loo lb. 

of good white wheat : — 

ib. 

1. Finest flour 42 

2. Seconds flour 18 

Flour ^ 2. Biscuit flour 9 

4. Tails, or tailings 3. 

5. Middlings, or fine sharps 8 

6. Coarse sharps 3 

Bran -^ 7- Fine pollard 3 

8. Coarse pollard ------- -6 

9. Long bran ---.3 

It must be recollected that the above quantities are merely 
given as rough approximations, while the names applied vary in 
different parts of the country and in different mills. The first 
three qualities, or wires, for instance, are often sold together as 
" fine flour," while the quantity of this product is further raised 
(to 80 per cent, of the wheat ts-ken) by re-dressing the tailings 
ODd re-grinding the middlings — w\vic\i \aXl^i iccac^ \i^ ^^^^ \Si\ssns^ 



FINE FLOUR. 



63 



kind of link between flour and bran. There are some mills 
rhere only three different degrees of fineness are recognised — 
our, middlings, and bran. 

As the chemical differences between the various mill-products 
ire not all of equal value, we may select a few facts regarding 
heir components from the number which have been accumulated. 
The cellulose and lignose, as well as the mineral matter and fibrin, 
u:e least in the fine flour. The fibrin is greatest in the pollard, 
and the mineral matter in the long bran. It will thus be evident 
that fine flour is inferior to pollard in bone-forming and flesh- 
foraiing nutrients. The following table makes this clear, showing 
how rich in these nutrients all those mill-products are which 
consist chiefly of the coverings of the seed. The toughness of 
these coverings is, of course, the reason why they are not reduced 
to a fine powder during the processes of milling. 

Case 37. 

One pound of 



fine flour contains 
Tails 

Middlings 
Coarse sharps 
Fine pollard 
Coarse pollard „ 
Long bran 
Thin bran 



>». 



>» 



»> 



»f 



»> 
>» 



Fibrin. 


Mineral Matter. 


02. gr. 


oz. 


gr. 


I 297 





50 


I 389 ... 





76 


2 105 





147 


2 246 





294 


2 210 





399 


2 196 


I 


ir 


2 182 


I 


6a 


I 290 





182 



The thin bran named in this table is not obtained in ordinary 
Qour mills ; it forms the outermost coating of the grain, and may 
be removed by damping and then peeling the grain. 

It may be useful to give a more complete analysis of fine flour 
as obtained from white soft wheat : — 

Case 37. 

Water 

Fibrin, &c 

Starch, &c 

Fat 

Cellulose - 

Wneral matter . - . . . 



1 

I 



In 100 parts. 


In J 


clb. 




oz. 


gr. 


13*0 


2 


35 


10-5 


I 


297 


74-3 


II 


388 


08 





ST 


07 





Ar9 


07 





Ar^ 



64 BRAN. 

One pound of good wheaten flour, when digested and oxidize 
in the body, might liberate force equal to 2,283 tons raised i f 
high. The greatest amount of external work which it coul 
enable a man to perform is 477 tons raised i ft. high. 

For one part of flesh-formers in fine wheaten flour there ar 
7^ parts of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

One pound of wheaten flour cannot produce more than abou 
I Yz oz. of the dry nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 

Instead of giving analyses of all the other mill-product! 
before named, we will cite one additional analysis only, that of { 
rather coarse bran : — 

Case 37. In loo parts. In x lb. 

oz. gr. 

Water 14 ... 2 105 

Fibrin, &c. 15 ... 2 175 

Starch, &c. 44 ... 7 17 

Fat 4 ... O 280 

Lignose and cellulose - - - - 17 ... 2 316 

Mineral matter 6 ... o 422 

In comparing these numbers with those before given as repr 
senting the composition of fine flour, it will be seen that br^ 
not only contains more fibrin and mineral matter than fine flou 
but also more fat. The fibrous matter, which is indigestibl 
forms ]4i of the bran, but not ^ of the fine flour. 

For I part of flesh-formers in bran there are not quite 4 par 
of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

One pound of wheaten bran contains flesh-formers equal 1 
rather more than 2}^ oz. of the dry nitrogenous substance < 
muscle or flesh. 

In bran there is a remarkable substance called cerecUin^ whic 
acts like a ferment in causing the change and solution of otht 
substances, and it may therefore aid in the processes of digestio 
when brown or whole-meal bread is eaten. 

There are many preparations of wheat which we can do littl 
more than mention. Such are semolina and semola, which ai 



WHEATEN BREAD, 65 

made in grinding wheat (and other grains also, as those of the 
oat). They consist of small fragments of the interior of the 
grain, and are usually prepared from hard wheat rich in flesh- 
formers. It is from the same kinds of wheat that the macaroni, 
vermicelli, and the infinite variety of Italian pastes are prepared. 
Wheat groats,' or grits, are distinguished from semola by the 
presence of the husk of the grain in large or small proportion. 

Bread. 
French, Pain, German, Brod. Italian, Pane, 

Of all the cereals wheat yields the best bread. This is due 
mainly to the peculiar character of the nitrogenous matter of 
wheat. This nitrogenous matter, of which the main constituent 
is a kind of fibrin, may be obtained in a separate form by making 
a little flour into a thick dough with water, and then washing the 
starch out of the mass by means of a stream of water. A gra)dsh- 
yellow, tough, and elastic mass is left, which can be drawn out into 
threads. This substance is often called gluten ; it is a mixture, but 
its chief ingredient is the albuminoid, or flesh-forming matter, 
fibrin. It confers upon a prepared mixture of flour and water, or 
dough, the property of yielding a sponge, which becomes firm, or 
sets, at the heat of the baking-oven. The bubbles which make 
the dough light are produced in different ways, but they are 
always filled at first with carbonic acid gas. The bubbles be- 
come larger as the dough begins to get hot in the oven, and 
finally they are fixed in shape and size by a higher degree of 
heat 

Theie are three ways of turning dough into bread. In the 
first of these the carbonic acid gas necessary to produce the 
^ongy texture is made within the dough by means of leaven, or 
ymt, leaven is not much used in this country — its action is 
similar to that of yeast. Leaven consists of flour and water — 
sometimes mixed with salt and boiled potatoes — \\. \s V^^\. >C^*^ 



66 WHEATEN BREAD. 

has begun to suffer change. This change commences in the fibrin, 
which produces a substance — 2l kind of ferment — ^which turns some 
of the starch of the flour into glucose, and then this into alcohol 
and carbonic acid gas. According to some authorities, it is the 
small quantity of glucose previously existing in the flour which 
is thus fermented. The action of beer yeast is the same. Yeast, 
whether fresh or partially dried, has the power of decomposing 
a warm solution of glucose or maltose — ^the sugars of fruits and 
malt. In its growth, the yeast plant, mixed with the dough, 
breaks up these sugars, changing them into carbonic acid gas and 
alcohol. The alcohol escapes during baking, and so does most 
of the carbonic acid gas ; but the latter has made innumerable 
bubbles in the dough previous to its escape, and thus the bread 
has been vesiculated. Leaven, assisted by a little yeast, is much 
used abroad, as in Paris, for making bread. Immense and 
increasing quantities of German, or dried yeast — carefully pre- 
pared by washing, &c. — are now imported into England. From, 
a sack of flour weighing 4801b. about 95 quartern or 4-lb- 
loaves may be obtained. These will lose weight, much water 
being given off" from the bread after it has left the oven till it i5 
cold — ^but the loss continues for long, the 4-lb. loaf at last being" 
reduced to little more than 3 lb. New bread contains fronL 
38 to 43 per cent, of water, sometimes even 45 per cent., and 
usually at least 40 per cent. The flesh-formers in white bread 
amount to 7 or 8 per cent ; the starch, gum, and sugar, to 48 
or 50 per cent.; and the mineral matter (which includes tha 
common salt added to the dough) to i^ per cent. The chief 
chemical difference between bread and the flour from which it 
has been made consists in the presence of much dextrirl in the 
bread, along with some soluble starch. The crust contains more? 
dextrin than the crumb. 

But it is easy to make bread without yeast or leaven, the 

carbonic acid gas necessary being set free within the dough by 

means of the chemical reaction betw^^xi a. strong acid and 3l 



BREAD-MAKING. 67 

carbonate. This process yields unfermented^ or chemical bread ; 
and one plan of this kind, which was patented by Dr. Whiting in 
^^37> has been much used. The materials used to produce the 
carbonic acid gas are bicarbonate of soda and hydrochloric acid 
(spirits of salt). But it is necessary to make sure that these 
materials are free from injurious impurities ; and it must also be 
remarked that the quantity of salt which is produced by the 
union of the bicarbonate of soda and the hydrochloric acid is 
excessive. It is true, however, that with care in the preparation 
of the dough less soda and acid will suffice, so that we may pro- 
duce a light and agreeable loaf with about half the quantities of 
these substances usually recommended. Unfermented bread 
may also be made with sesqui-carbonate of ammonia without 
any acid, this compound expanding or raising the " sponge " and 
then escaping at the heat of the oven. 

Baking powders contain tartaric acid and carbonate of soda, 
and the bread made with them differs only from the unfermented 
bread of Dr. Whiting in the presence of tartrate of soda — an 
aperient salt — instead of common salt Similar powders, coloured 
yellow with turmeric, are sold under the name of egg powders. 
It is scarcely necessary to say that they have nothing in common 
with eggs save colour. 

There is another process of making bread without leaven or 
yeast, or even any saline matter. It is known as Dr. Dauglish's 
process, the bread produced being called " aerated." Here the 
requisite carbonic acid gas is prepared beforehand in a condition 
of perfect purity, and in a separate vessel. This gas is then 
forced into water, which becomes highly charged with it, like 
soda-water. The flour is mixed with this aerated, or carbonated 
water in a strong iron vessel, under pressure. The dough thus 
formed rises when introduced into the oven, for the gas with 
^hich it has been charged expands and escapes on being with- 
drawn from the pressure of the mixing vessel, awd ?X\VV ixvot^ era. 
beifl^lzeated AeiaXed bread differs much in tasle fcoxa ot^va^rj 



6S BROWN BREAD. 

fermented bread. Perhaps it is less generally liked, but it 
certainly preserves, in a remarkable d^ree, the odour and 
flavour of the original pure wheaten flour from which it was 
made. 

Before leaving this extremely important subject of bread, a 
few words on brown bread may not be out of place. Brown 
bread, as usually made and sold by bakers, is merely ordinary 
white bread, containing a dash of pollard or fine bran. Now, 
this is not a satisfactory mixture, for the more valuable middlings, 
sharps, and fine pollard should not be excluded. Indeed, whole 
wheaten meal is now specially prepared by grinding up these 
products again and adding them to the flour, and the mixture is 
used for the manufacture of a true brown bread, preserving a& 
the valuable constituents of the grain in due proportion. But it 
must not be thought that whole-meal bread or any other kind of 
brown bread does actually furnish more nutriment than white 
bread. It may be, and often is, richer in nutrients, but the 
presence of numerous rough, branny fragments so stimulates the 
action of the intestines, that the material is hurried along the 
digestive tract without that complete digestion and absorption of ' 
its nutritive matters which white bread undergoes. Thus bread 
from flour from which all coarse particles have been excluded is 
preferred, not unreasonably, by men who have hard bodily labour 
to perform. But there are, on the other hand, many persons to 
whom whole-meal bread and biscuits are exceedingly useful i^ 
aiding the action of the bowels. Any deficiencies in the amoui^^ 
of phosphates, &c., in white bread, are made up by the use o^ 
eggs, milk, and other foods of animal origin. 

According to Dr. Frankland's experiments, i lb. of brea^' 
crumb, if digested and oxidized in the human body, might libera*^ 
force equal to 1,333 tons raised i ft. high. The greatest amou^^ 
of external work which it could enable a man to perform is 26 ^ 
tons raised i ft. high. 
Case 35. The following leeipe^ ^n^ ^lOtajt Tk.Q>i<sa qC tt*^ 



DIFFERENT KINDS OF BREAD. 69 

quantities of the several materials required to make a 2-lb. loaf, 
by the different processes just described : — 

I. — Ordinary or Fermented Bread. 

lb. oz. 
Flour I S}4 

Water, about 010 

Yeast o oj4 

Potatoes 01;^ 

Salt - o o>i 

It may be noted that more water than the above is often 
employed : that the small quantity of boiled potatoes here named, 
though generally thought to improve the bread, is not necessary ; 
and that ^ oz. of salt is not an unusual proportion in the 2-lb. 
loaf. 

II. — Aerated or Dr. Dauglish's Bread. 

lb. oz. 
Flour I 7>^ 

Carbonated water - * o 10 

Salt - - 00% 

III. — Unfermented Bread. 

lb. oz. gr. 
Flour 180 

Water - - - o 10 o 

Bicarbonate of soda 00 220 

k Hydrochloric acid 00 246 

IV.— Whole-Meal Bread. 

lb. oz. 
Whole wheaten meal '9 

Water - » o 10 

Yeast o 0% 

Salt o o>^ 

There are several substances found in bread, or, rather, in the 
bread of some bakeries, which have no business there. They 
are chiefly introduced to whiten the loaf, to enable damaged or 
inferior flour to be used, or to cause the bread to retain more 
water than usual. Alum and sulphate of copper (blue vitriol) arc 
employed for the former purposes, boiled rice and potatoes foi 
the latter. The two chemical substances, aXuta 2ltA ^xiN.-^^^ <• 



70 ADULTERATION OF BREAD. 

copper, are dangerous adulterants when added to a material in 
daily use like bread. A little pure lime-water answers the same 
purposes, and there is no reason to think it can be productive of 
the least harm. The case of boiled rice and potatoes is less 
serious. These materials are, of course, perfectly wholesome in 
themselves, indeed the latter material is often advantageously 
employed in making bread at home, on the small scale ; but when 
these substances are used in order that loo loaves may be got 
from a quantity of flour which should yield no more than 95, and 
when we know that this difference is caused by the larger quantity 
of water in the bread prepared with the addition of potatoes or 
rice, then these additions are justly described as adulterations. 

From what we have just said, it must not be assumed that the 
adulterants found in bread are the additions, in all cases, of the 
baker. Millers are known to employ several substances for the 
purpose of whitening, or otherwise improving the flour, or for 
fraudulently increasing its weight Rice meal, bean meal, corn- 
flour, or Rivett wheat flour, and the flour of Dari (a sort of millet), 
have been frequently detected in the products of the flour mill. 
But these materials, though cheaper than wheaten flour, cannot 
be said to be such serious adulterations as those of a mineral 
character. Chalk, dolomitic limestone, powdered gypsum, china 
clay, and even heavy spar or barytes have been employed for this 
purpose. All of these mineral matters are useless, having no 
value as food ; some are even injurious. Fortunately they can all 
be easily detected by chemical tests, while the adulterants named 
before (rice, &c.), require very careful examination in a good 
microscope. The mere fact that a sample of wheaten flour left, 
on being burnt, more than its proper proportion of ash would 
point to adulteration with some of the earthy matters which have 
just been named. 

Case 38. In times of scarcity, all sorts of vegetable matters 

have been mixed with wheaten flour and meal in order to eke out 

a limited supply of these nutritious maXXets. T>mt\xv^\5w^ ^ia^e df 



BISCUITS. 7 1 

Paris a coarse bread was made containing but little wheat, the 
main ingredients being potatoes and beans, with oats, rice, and 
rye, together with a good deal of fibrous vegetable matter in the 
shape of chaff and straw. In Norway and Sweden the sawdust of 
non-resinous woods, like beech and birch, is boiled in water, 
baked, and then mixed with flour to form the material for bread. 
And in England, during the seventeenth century, a very tolerable 
bread was made from a mixture of the pulp of boiled turnips with 
wheaten flour. 

Biscuits. 

Csae 39. Biscuits are usually distinguished from bread by two 
diflerences : they are not vesiculated, and they are baked until 
tliey contain scarcely any water, sometimes not even 5 per cent. 
There are, of course, some exceptions to this rule, especially in the 
case of fancy biscuits. The word *' biscuit '' means twice cooked 
Or baked, and is thus not applicable to the generality of biscuits 
How made. There are, however, some biscuits which have really 
t>een twice in the oven ; such are rusks, which are made from flour, 
iriill^ butter, and sugar, first lightly baked as a kind of bread, then 
cvit into slices and again put into a sharp oven, so as to scorch 
both sides. Afterwards they are thoroughly dried by a lowet 
<iegree of heat continued for some hours. 

Most kinds of biscuits consist of a basis of flour and water, 
with slight additions of butter, sugar, and flavouring sub- 
stances. Unleavened, or Passover cakes, consist of flour and 
'Water alone. Diet, digestive, and bran biscuits contain or consist 
of bran. Abemethy biscuits contain caraway seeds. Cracknels 
are glazed with white of egg. Macaroons and ratafias are flavoured 
^th sweet and bitter almonds. Ginger, lemon, and orange-peel, 
and many other flavourers and spices, are used as ingredients in 
^cy biscuits and cakes. All plain biscuits may \i^ coxs.€\^et^^ 
ssmore nutritious than bread, in the propoitioiv oi ^^ X.o v TV^-i 



72 OATS. 

are most digestible when not very dense, and when they have 
been browned by baking, so as to turn much of their starch into 
dextrin, 

Oats. 

French, Avoine, German, Hafer, Italian, Avena, 

{Avena sativa,) 

The oat belongs to the same order as the wheat — that of the 
grasses or graminacese. The native country of the plant from 
which our cultivated varieties are derived is unknown. The oat 
is hardier than wheat, and ripens in higher latitudes. In Great 
Britain there were, in the year 1875, no less than 2,664,000 acres 
devoted to this crop, as against 3,342,481 under wheat Thougl3- 
chiefly grown as food for horses, there are two forms in which £^ 
is largely used for human food — these are oat-cake and oatmeaL^ — 
porridge. As the husk adheres to the oat grain firmly, it i^ 
necessary to dry it in a kiln, in order to loosen it Afterward^ 
the kiln-dried oats are submitted to a process of milling, whidr"*- 
removes the husk, and leaves the nutritive part of the grain, a^ 
groats or grits, which are then ground and constitute oaimeaf^ 
Oatmeal varies in composition a good deal, especially as regards 
the proportions of water, fat, and fibrin, or flesh-forming matter'— 
When quite fresh, and before exposure to the air, its water 
not exceed 5 per cent and may be less j the fat or oil amounts U 
7, and in the best samples to 10 per cent ; while the fibrin ma] 
be 14 to 17 or 18 per cent Scotch oatmeal is the best anc 
richest ; it forms as porridge or oatcake a very nourishing thougl 
somewhat laxative food. It is much richer in flesh-formers thj 
ordinary wheaten flour. Oat flour cannot alone be made int< 
bread. As oats in the husks are not used as human food, we m 
not give the complete analysis of the whole oat grain, which differ^^ 
£rom that of oatmeal, mainly in eoivXamm^ tclqx^ c€^od\s^^j^ ^ac 



oz. 


gr. 


O 


350 


2 


252 


lO 


352 


I 


269 


o 


259 


o 


147 



OATMEAL. 73 

lignose. * A careful analysis of a fresh sample of Scotch oatmeal 
showed the following results ; — 

Composition of Oatmeal, 

Case 49. In xoo parts. In z lb. 

Water - 5-0... 

Fibrin, &c. i6-i 

Starch, &c. 63'o 

Fat lo-i 

Cellulose and lignose - - - - 37 
Mineral matter 2'i 



According to Frankland, i lb. of oatmeal, when digested 
and oxidized in the body, might liberate force equal to 2,439 tons 
raised i ft. high. The greatest amount of external work which it 
could enable a man to perform is 488 tons raised i ft high. It 
is, however, probable that the sample which was used in this 
experimental trial was decidedly inferior to fine Scotch oatmeal, 
the composition of which is given above. 

For one part of flesh-formers in Scotch oatmeal, there are 
5j^ parts of heat-givers, reckoned as starch, but the actual quan- 
tities of both flesh-formers and heat-givers are unusually large. 

One pound of oatmeal cannot produce more than about 
2% oz. of the dry nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 

One hundred pounds of oats (weighing 45 >^ lb. the bushel) 
commonly yield the following proportion of oatmeal, &c. : — 



From 100 lb. of oats. 

Oatmeal 60 lb. 

Husks 26 ,, 

Water 12 „ 

Loss 2,, 



• Samples of oats in the straw, and of different vanelVes ol ^^t ^nc«i, tdo:^ 
^ seen in Cases 30, 31, and 32. 



74 COMPOSITION OF BARLEY. 

Barley. 

French, Orge. German, Gerste. Italian, Orzo. 

(Hordeum vulgare,) 

Case42.» Barley belongs to the natural order of the grasses. 
The plant was originally a native of western temperate Asia. It 
is hardier than wheat or oats, and may be grown in high northern 
latitudes. It is not extensively cultivated in America ; in Great 
Britain, 2,509,701 acres were devoted to this crop in the year 1875. 
Barley was largely used in ancient times as human food. Most 
of that grown in England is now converted into malt for making 
beer. Some is ground into meal and used for feeding pigs ; while 
much is milled, yielding pot or Scotch barley and pearl barley. 
The whole grain is subjected to a rasping or paring process, by 
which the fibrous coats of the grain are more or less completely 
removed. Pot barley is the coarsest product, and retains some- 
thing of the original shape of the grain. Of this product about 
63 lb. are obtained firom 100 lb. of barley, but only half this 
amount of the finest pearl. Patent barley is pearl barley ground 
into flour. Pot and pearl barley are used in soups, puddings, &c. 
It will be seen from the annexed analysis that pearl barley is 
inferior to wheaten flour in flesh-formers. 

Composition of Common Pearl Barley. 

In 100 parts. 

Water 14*6 

Fibrin, &c 6-2 

Starch, &c 76*0 

Fat 1*3 

Cellulose o'8 

Mineral matter i 'i 

For I part of flesh-formers in pearl barley there are no less 
than 125^ parts of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

* In Cases 33 and 34 samples of \»x\cv we ^ovm. 



In 


lib. 


oz. 


gr. 


2 


147 





434 


12 


70 





91 


3 


56 





77 



COMPOSITION OF RYE. 75 

One pound of pearl barley cannot produce more than i oz. of 
e dry nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 

Barley flour does not peld a light bread, but it may be used 
r bread-making when mixed with wheaten flour. 

Rye. 

French, SeigU, German, Roggen, Italian, Segale, 

(Secale cereaie,) 

Case 4a. Rye, like wheat, oats, and barley, belongs to the 
•asses. It was formerly extensively grown in Great Britain, and is 
ill cultivated to some extent, especially in the eastern counties of 
ugland ; but in most parts of this country rye is used as green 
►dder only. The grain of rye is employed mainly for malting 
iirposes, but its flour may be made into bread. Rye bread is 
ark-coloured, heavy, and sourish, but it keeps moist for a long 
me. It is a favourite food in many parts of Northern Europe, 
Qd is known as black bread. A palatable bread may be made 
om a mixture of 2 parts of wheaten flour and i part of rye 
our. 

Rye grain is peculiarly liable to the attacks of a fungus, which 
reduces the ergot of rye. The whole substance of the grain is 
Itered and blackened, while a remarkable compound called 
r^oHne is produced. This substance renders ergoted grain 
inwholesome, and sometimes even dangerous. 

The following table shows the 

Composition of Rye Flour. 



Water 

Fibrin, &c - 
Starch, &c * 
Fat 

Cellulose 
Mineral matter 



In 


100 parts. 




Inx 
oz. 


lb. 
gr- 




130 


• • • 


2 


35 




10 '5 


• •• 


I 


298 




71*0 


• • • 


II 


157 




1-6 


• •• 





66 




2-3 


% % • 





\^\ 




1-6 







Wi 



76 RICE. 

For I part of flesh-formers in rye flour there are (i% parts of 
heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

One pound of rye flour cannot produce more than i y^oz, 
of the dry nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 






Rice. 

French, Riz, German, Reis, Italian, Riso, 

{Oryza sativa.) 

Cases 43 and 44' R^cc is a grass, a native of India. It is extensively 
grown in India, China, and the East generally ; also in Carolina 
and Central America. It is likewise cultivated with success in the 
southern parts of Europe. Rice requires a high temperature arid 
abundance of water to bring it to perfection ; indeed the fields in 
which the crop is grown are irrigated. Many varieties of rice 
are cultivated, but they do not differ materially, as far as the com- 
position of the grain is concerned. Rice is more largely grown 
and consumed as human food than any other cereal. It is said 
to be the main food of one-third of the human race. Alone, 
however, it is not a perfect food, being deficient in flesh-formers 
and mineral matters. 

Rice is imported into this country from Carolina, Patna, 
Bengal, Arracan. When enclosed in the husk rice is known as 
paddy. By careful milling this husk is removed, and the pearled 
grain thus cleaned is what is generally known as rice. The rice 
husk, or shudCy is harsh and fibrous in texture, and contains much 
lignose and silica. It is largely used in adulterating many articles 
of human and cattle food. Rice is used both in the form of the 
cleaned rice of the shops and ground into flour. Much starch 
is extracted from rice. Rice starch is readily changed into a kind 
of sugar, accompanied by some dextrin, when it is warmed with 
very weak sulphuric acid. 



RICE. 77 



Tni 
oz. 
2 

I ^ 


lb. 
g'. 

147 
87 


12 


70 


O 
O 


35 
63 


O 


35 



Composition of Cleaned Rice. 

In 100 parts. 

Water ------- 14*6 

Fibrin, &c 7*5 

Starch, &c - .... 76X) 

Fat 0-5 

Cellulose 0*9 

Mineral matter 0*5 



For I part of flesh-formers in rice there are more than 10 parts 
of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

One pound of rice cannot produce more than I'/s oz. of the 
dry nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 

According to Frankland, i lb. of rice, when digested and 
oxidized in the body, might liberate force equal to 2,330 tons 
raised i ft. The greatest amount of external work which 
it could enable a man to perform is 466 tons raised i ft. 
high. 

Rice is most usefully employed as food when it is consumed 
along with substances rich in nitrogenous or flesh-forming 
matters. Thus it may be used with meat, eggs, and any kind 
of pulse, as peas or beans. Rice should not be boiled, but 
merely steamed till tender, for it yields to boiling water a con- 
siderable part of its nitrogenous and mineral constituents — those 
compounds, in fact, in which it was already deficient. But this 
objection to boiling rice does not, of course, apply to its use in 
soups. Rice cannot be substituted for green vegetables for any 
length of time without an unhealthy condition of the body, and 
sometimes scurvy, being the result.* 



• Samples of rice are shown in Case 44 from Central Africa, Carolina, 
Cochin China, Damietta, Egypt, Greece, India, Java, Madagascar, Peru, 
I*ortugal, Russia, Spain, and Turkey ; also a specimen gco^iv \xi \>a& '^o^A 
Botanic Qoxdens, Ktw, 



78 COMPOSITION OF MAIZE. 

Maize, or Indian Corn. 

French, Bit de Turquie. German, Mais, Italian, Graniurco, 

(Zea Mays,) 

Case 43.* Maize belongs to the grasses. It is a native American 
plant, but was soon introduced into the Old World. It is now largely 
grown in Southern Europe, North Africa, and North America. 
It is the com of the United States, where numerous preparations 
of the grain are in use. The whole ear is spoken of as dicob] 
the pearled grains are called samp. Broken or split maize is 
known as hominy , while grains which have been heated or roasted 
so as to burst them are designated by the term pofhcorn. Ground 
maize forms, when boiled, a very common and favourite food in 
the United States, being called mush. In Italy it goes imder 
the name oi polenta^ while the more finely prepared meal is 
ttrmtd poieniina. Maize will grow and often ripen its cobs in 
England, but it cannot be relied on as a field crop. Several 
varieties, and possibly more than one species, of maize are 
in cultivation. These differ much in the size, shape, and colour 
of the grain, and in other particulars as well ; but in their com- 
position there is not much variation — 

Composition of Maize. 

In icxj parts. In i lb. 

oz. gr. 
Water - - - - - - - 14-5 ... 2 140 

Fibrin, &c. 90 ... i 193 

Starch, &c 64*5 ... 10 140 

^at 5-0 ... o 350 

Cellulose and lignose - - - - 5*0 ... o 350 

Mineral matter 2-0 ... o 140 

* Numerous varieties of maize, including the whole ear or cob, the 
separated grain, and many preparations therefrom, are shown in Case 35. 
The following is a list of the countries furnishing most of these specimens: 
British Guiana, Egypt, France, Greece, New South Wales, Peru, Portugal, 
Queensland, Russia, Senegal, Spain, United States, Venezuela. Some 
specimens of maize grown near London are aXso ^Qwii"YQ.^Y& C^at, 



MILLET. 79 

For I part of flesh-formers in maize there are Z% parts of 
jat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

One poimd of maize cannot produce quite \% oz. of the dry 
itxogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 

Maize was not consumed to any great extent in the British 
iles till the year of the potato famine, 1846, when considerable 
aantities of the grain and meal were imported. Since then 
urge and increasing quantities of maize reach England, to be 
sed, not only as human food, but for horse keep. Many pre- 
larations of maize are now popular articles of food under the 
lames of corn-flour, oswego, maizena, comena, &c It must be 
listinctly understood that these products are not flour, but nearly 
)iire starch, and that they contain mere traces of bone-forming 
ind flesh-forming materials. When used with milk, however, 
heir deficiencies are to some extent supplied, although, even 
hen, there must necessarily be an excessive proportion of heat- 
^ving to flesh-forming nutrients in the mixture. In i lb. of the 
JO-called "corn-flour" from maize, we found but 18 grains of 
iesh-formers ; in i lb. of the similar preparation known as 
'oswego," 69 grains were present. 

Maize is poorer than wheat in flesh-formers, but richer than 
rice. It contains more fat than wheat, barley, or rice. Mixed 
with wheaten flour, it yields an agreeable bread. It may be 
used for biscuits, puddings, porridge, cakes, &c. 



Millet. 

French, Millet, German, Hirse. Italian, Miglio. 
{Fanicum miliaceum, &a) 

Caae 43. Very many different plants belonging to the grasses 
yield the grain known as millet The Fanicum spectahilt oS.'^x'aai^ 
grows seven or eight feet high, while otliet speda^ ot^ ^^ 



8o MILLET AND DARL 

Amazon are quite as luxuriant P, cernuum is the millet of . 
Texas ; in India, P, pilosum and P, frumentosum are grown. In 
Central and Southern Europe several other species are cultivated. 

Millet grain is used for human food chiefly in hot countries. 
It may be made into a kind of bread, quite equal, as far as its 
composition goes, to wheaten bread.* 

A sample of one of the millets grown in Europe, the grain of 
Panicum miliaceum^ gave, when the husk had been removed, the 
following results on analysis : — 



Composition of Millet. 

In xoo larts. 

Water 13*0 

Fibrin, &c. 15*3 

Starch, &c. - - - - - 61 '6 

Fat 5-0 

Cellulose 3*5 

Mineral matter 1*6 



For I part of flesh-formers in millet there are about 5 parts of 
heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

One pound of millet cannot produce more than i Yz oz. of the 
dry nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 

Case 43. Dari or Durra is the grain of certain species of 
sorghum, and is largely consumed as food in some countries. 
It is imported into this country in some quantity, and used for 
feeding cattle, poultry, &c. The grain is white, and larger than 
millet 

Composition of Darl 



In 


lib. 


oz. 


V' 


2 


105 


I 


283 


... 10 


231 





31S 





280 





98 



In xoo 
parts. 

Water 12*2 

Fibrin, &c - - - - 8-2 
Starch, &c. - - - - 70-6 



In 100 
parts. 

Fat 4*2 

Cellulose and lignose - - 3'i 
Mineral matter - - - 17 



• In Cases 31 and 43 are various samples of millet from Canada, Gennany» 
Persia, Portugal, Spain, India, ^gypt, Seii^ega.l,TTi^U, Bohemia^ and Russia. 



BUCKWHEAT, 8i 

The grain of many other grasses is used as food. We may- 
cite as an instance the Russian preparation known as manna 
kroup, consisting of groats from the grain of the common grass, 
Poa Auitans. 

Buckwheat. 

French, Sarrasin, German, Buchweizen, Italian, Grano Saraceno, 

{Polygonum Fago^yrum,) 

Case 43. This plant, though not a grass, may be fitly con- 
sidered here. It is largely grown in temperate countries for its 
starchy seeds, which resemble the grain of the grasses in com- 
position. Buckwheat is probably a native of Western Asia or 
Russia : it belongs to the order Folygonacece, which includes the 
rhubarb and the dock. 

Buckwheat is an annual of quick growth and easy cultivation. 
It is sown in Britain for feeding game and poultry, and is also 
grown for green fodder. 

The seed of buckwheat is enclosed in a husk containing much 
indigestible fibre. When this husk, amounting to about 20 per 
cent, has been removed, the richness of the seed in nutritive 
matters is very considerable. ^ 

The published analyses of buckwheat deprived of its husk 
being very discordant, new analyses have been made with the 
following results : — 



Water . - - 
Fibrin - - - 
Starch - - . 
Fat ... 

Cellulose and lignose 
Mineral matter 



In xoo parts. 


In X lb. 




oz. gr. 


13*4 


2 63 


15*2 


... 2 189 


63-6 


.. 10 77 


3*4 


.. 238 


2*1 


147 


23 


161 



For I part of flesh-formers in cleaned buckwheat llaex^ ^^^ 
about 4^ parts of heat-givers, reckoned as staicK 



82 FEAS. 

One pound of cleaned buckwheat contains flesh-formers equal 
to rather more than 2^ oz. of the dry nitrogenous substance of 
muscle or flesh. 

§ 2. — Pulse — Peas, Beans, &c. 

There is a marked difference in chemical composition between 
the seeds of leguminous plants on the one hand, and the grain 
of the cereals on the other. This difference mainly consists in 
the far higher proportion of albuminoids, or flesh-formers, in the 
former. In consequence of this difference, the ratio of flesh- 
formers to heat-givers in the seeds now under consideration is 
about I to 2j^, instead of i to 5, as in wheat, or i to 10, as in 
rice. This fact suggests the proper mode of using pulse, which 
should generally be eaten with other foods rich in starch, sugar, 
fat, oil, or non-nitrogenous nutrients. Beans and rice, beans and 
bacon, are examples of such mixtures. 

The albuminoid which predominates in pulse is called kgumin 
or vegetable casein. It occurs in leguminous plants generally, boA 
in their green parts and in their ripe seeds. It appears to be more 
soluble and more easily digested in the unripe fresh seeds than 
after they have become ripe and dry ; but it is usually considered 
a less valuable flesh-former than albumen or fibrin. Its resem- 
blance to the animal casein of milk is so decided, that in some 
parts of China cheeses are made from the seeds of beans and 
peas. . The resemblance between different species of pulse is so 
great that we need not describe in detail all the cultivated sorts,* 
but may select as examples the garden pea, the haricot bean, and 

the lentil 

Peas. 

French, Fats. German, Erbsen. Italian, FisellL 

{Fisum sativum^ 

Case 46. The cultivated garden pea is probably derived from a 

plant native of countries bordering the Black Sea. It has been long 

* In Cases 31, 32, and 34 are samples of different kinds of beans, peasy 
chick peaf^ vetches, and lentils, from many countries. 



PEAS, Zi 

pfown in England, and, like the French bean, is eaten unripe and 
jreen, as a fresh vegetable, and ripe, in the form of dried peas, 
plit peas, and pea meal Split peas have had the tough envelope 
)f the seed removed. 

Unripe or green peas contain a considerable quantity of sugar, 
vhile the albuminoid matter in them is more easily digested than 
hat in the same seeds when quite ripe. Dry, ripe peas, even when 
ground, require long but slow boiling, to render them fit for use ; 
they constitute a valuable food, however, when properly cooked, in 
the form of pease-pudding and pea-soup. In common with other 
leguminous plants, and indeed with all products, animal as well as 
vegetable, which are rich in casein, peas are liable to occasion 
flatulence and colic Peas and many other legumes contain a 
Ktter substance, which predominates in some varieties so greatly 
as to render them unpalatable. This substance may, however, be 
removed in some measure by soaking the seeds or coarse meal in 
water containing a little common washing soda for some time v^^ 
the liquor is then poured away. 

Composition of Peas. 

In loo parts. In z lb. 

02 gr. 

Water I4*3 ••• 2 126 

Casein, &c. 22-4 ... 3 255 

Starch, &c 51*3 ... 8 91 

Fat 2*5 ... o 175 

Cellulose and lignose - - - - 6*5 ... I 17 

Mineral matter -'---- 3*0 ... o 210 

For I part of flesh-formers in peas, there are only 2 J^ parts of 
heat-givers, reckoned as starch. One pound of peas contains flesh- 
formers equal to sj4 oz. of the dry nitrogenous matter of muscle 
or flesh. 

According to Frankland, i lb. of dry peas, when digested and 
oxidized in the body, might liberate force equal to 2,341 tons 
raised i ft high. The greatest amount of external woik yiVds:fe. Ss. 
could enable a man to perform, is 468 tons raised x^ \i\^« 

o 1 



84 FEA'SOUP. 

One of the most economical and nutritious articles of diet is 
pea-soup. One gallon may be made from — ^peas, i6 oz. ; meat, 
1 6 oz. j pot barley, i oz. ; onions, ij^ oz. ; salt, i)4 oz, ; sugar, 
i}4 oz. ; black pepper, 40 grains ; and water, 4 quarts. The peas 
should be first steeped in 3 pints of the water (cold) for 12 houis; 
the meat should be gently simmered in 5 pints of the water for 
3 hours. The peas should then be put in a bag and boiled with 
the meat for i hour. The contents of the bag should then be 
pressed into the liquor, the skins which remain in the bag being 
removed. The salt, pepper, onions, and barley should now be 
put in, and the whole boiled for i hour, water being added, firam 
time to time, to make up the gallon. Water in which bones, 
fresh meat, or such vegetables as carrots and parsnips have been 
boiled, may be substituted for the whole or part of the fresh water 
used, and the resulting soup will be still more nutritious. But 
even the best soups cannot be regarded as complete substitutes 
for the more solid foods — bread, cheese, potatoes, and meat. 

One pint of this soup will contain something like the following 
quantities of — 

Case 47. or. gr. 

Water 17 o. 

Casein, &c. o 270 

Starch, &c. i o 

Sugar 056 

Fat o 257 

Gelatin -- o 147 

Mineral matter o 103 

The field pea is Pisum arvense^ and is generally thought to be 
the origin of all our cultivated varieties, although these are now 
grouped under the generic name of P, sativum. But there is a 
very distinct kind of pea, known as the chick pea, which belongs 
to a different genus — it is the Cicer arietinum. Chick peas are 
eaten in Spain, and very extensively also in the East, being 
generally parched or lightly roasted* 

• Chick peas from Moldavia, Turkey, Portugal, Spain, and India arc 
shown in Case 31. 



BEANS. Zs 

Haricot and French Beans. 

French, Haricots. German, Wdlschen Bohnen, Italian, Fagiuoli. 

{Phaseolus vulgaris,) 

Case 46. The French bean, the kidney bean, and the numerous 
varieties of haricots, are all derived from a plant which was in- 
troduced from India. This vegetable was and is largely grown in 
Italy and France, where its pods are usually allowed to ripen and 
the seeds to dry. In this country the pods are gathered when 
green and unripe, and eaten as a fresh vegetable ; this is the case, 
also, to some extent, on the Continent, where the green pods are 
preserved in several ways so as to be available throughout the 
year. The dried seeds of this plant, known as haricot beans, when 
« carefully and thoroughly cooked, are worthy of more extended 
use in England; they are universally appreciated in France. 
They should be eaten with starchy foods, like rice, or with bacon. 

Composition of Haricot Beans. 

In 100 parts. In i lb. 

oz, gr. 

Water I4'0 ... 2 105 

Casein, &c. 23*0 ... 3 297 

Starch, &c 52*3 ... 8 161 

Fat 2*3 ... o 161 

Cellulose and lignose • • - - 5*5 ••• ^ 3^5 

Mineral matter 2*9 ... o 203 

For I part of flesh-formers in haricot beans there are only 2 J^ 
parts of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

One pound of haricot beans might produce nearly 3^ oz. of 
the dry nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 

The scarlet-runner {Phaseolus multiflorus) closely resembles 
the French bean, and is used green in the same way. It is 
believed to be a native of Mexico. The ripe beans are not 
wholesome. 

The broad or Windsor bean is, when young, an agreeable and 
wholesome food. It is the seed of a dislincl p\ati\. ^era^^ ^\q>\sn. 
^e Md bean, or JFada vulgaris. 



86 COMPOSITION OF LENTILS. 

Lentils. 

French, Lentilles, German, Ltnsen. Italian, Latti, 

(Ervum lens,) 

Case 46. This leguminous plant is extensively grown for human 
food in the southern parts of Europe. Numerous varieties exist, 
but they do not differ much in composition and nutritive value. 
This plant was cultivated by the Hebrews and other ancient 
nations. It is thought that the red pottage of Esau was made 
from the well-known red variety of lentil. 

Besides a bitter substance there is a good deal of useless 
fibrous material in the covering of lentil seeds. When this 
covering is removed the meal which lentils yield is of great rich- 
ness. It generally contains more casein than either peas or 
beans, but rather less than lupines. The preparations so much 
advertised under the names of " Revalenta," " Ervalenta," &c., 
contain lentil-meal, generally mixed with some barley or other 
flour, and common salt. They are sold at many times the value 
of the meals of which they are composed. 

Composition of Lentils. 

In 100 parts. In i lb. 

oz. gr. 
Water 14*5 ... 2 140 

Casein, &c 24*0 ... 3 367 

Starch, &c. 49*0 ... 7 408 

Fat 2*6 ... o 182 

Cellulose and lignose - - - - 6*9 ... i 45 

Mineral matter 3*0 ... o 210 

For I part of flesh-formers in lentils there are about 2^ parts 
of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

One pound of lentils contains flesh-formers equal to 35^ oz. 
of the dry nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh.* 

•Many samples of lentils, from Algeria, Egypt, France, Portugal, 
Reunion, Spain, Tripoli, and Turkey, axe s\vovitvVft.C^^t'>>V 



ROOTS AND TUBERS. 87 

Ground or Pea Nuts. 
{Arachis hy^ogcea,) 

Case 46. The pods of this most curious leguminous plant are 
ripened below the soil. The plant is probably of American origin, 
but is grown in many hot countries, and is widely cultivated 
along the West Coast of Africa. It flourishes in a rich soil, and 
may grow to 2 feet in height. The Arachis somewhat resembles 
a large kind of clover in appearance ; it has small bright yellow 
pea-like flowers, borne on long stalks; these, after flowering, 
curl down and force the immature pod into the soil 

The seeds of the ground nut when green and unripe are 
roasted, and have a very pleasant taste. When ripe they, are 
extremely oily, and require an admixture of starchy matter. 

Composition of Ground Nuts (shelled). 



Water - • . 
Casein - - - 
Starch, &c. - 

oa - - - 

Cellulose and lignose 
Mineral matter 



100 parts. 

7'5 


In I lb. 
oz. gr. 

I 97 


24*5 

117 


3 403 

I 382 


50-0 


8 


4*5 
1-8 


315 
126 



Ground nuts, after the greater part of the oil has been ex- 
pressed, yield a cake much used in this country for feeding cattle. 
But in many tropical countries these nuts are consumed as 
human food. 

Many other leguminous seeds and pods are eaten besides 
those named above. Such are, the pigeon pea {Cajanus tndicus), 
of India ; a plant nearly allied to the ground nut ( Voandzeia 
subterraned) 'y and numerous Indian and Chinese species of 
I>olicJws. 

. § 3. — Roots and Tubers 

Cases ^«, 5x, and 52. It wiU have been noticed that the vegetable 
products (com and pulse) already considei^di coTv\a\xv \sviX ^ 



88 POTATOES. 

moderate portion of water, generally something like 14 per cent, 
or 2 oz. in the pound. But it will presently be seen that all fresh 
and moist vegetables, whether roots, leaves, or fruits, contain 
much more water. Potatoes, indeed, are richer in nutrients than 
many other moist vegetables, but even they contain 75 per cent 
of water, or 12 oz. in the pound. White turnips, on the other 
hand, contain from 91 to 93 per cent, or nearly 15 oz. in 
the pound. Another point of difference between the drier foods 
already studied, and those to which attention is about to be 
directed, lies in the presence of more considerable proportions of 
albumen amongst the flesh-formers of moist roots and tubers. 
We give the first place to the potato. 

Potatoes. 

French, Pomtnes de terre, German, Kartoffeln, Italian, Pomi di terra, 

{Solatium tuberosum,) 

The potato belongs to the nightshade order, which includes a 
very large number of poisonous plants. The tubers, which are 
enlargements of the underground stem, form, next to the grain 
of the cereals, our most important vegetable food. The potato 
plant has been found wild in Chili, Peru, and Mexico. It was 
brought to Ireland by Sir John Hawkins, in 1565 ; to England by 
Sir Francis Drake in 1585, and in the following year by Sir W. 
Raleigh. Gerarde figured the plant in his " Herbal," published 
in 1597. But this vegetable did not become popular until 
towards the close of the eighteenth century. 
"^^ Many varieties of the cultivated potato exist, but variations 
in chemical composition shown by this tuber depend more upon 
its size and maturity than upon the variety. Since the year 1845 
the potato has been the subject of a disease, known as the 
potato murrain, which causes the foliage to die off suddenly and 
the tubers to decay. The muTiam pxev^A^s m d-acov^ warm sum- 



POTATOES. 89 

mers, when there is a heavy rainfall in June or July, and when 
the rain falls on many days. Such conditions are favourable to 
the growth of the parasites, mildew, or fungus, which is the 
immediate cause of the disease. Good drainage, with plenty of 
air for the plants, and no excess of decaying matter in the soil, 
are amongst the best means of moderating the attacks of the 
fungus, which generally goes by the name of Peronospora infestans, 
but has been lately described as a Phytophthora, 

Slightly diseased potatoes may be utilised in many ways. If 
cut at once in thin slices or granulated, they may be dried in hot- 
air chambers, and will keep for years. They again absorb water 
when placed in it, and may be cooked in the usual manner. 
The starch, even in badly diseased potatoes, is but little affected, 
and may be obtained from the pulped tubers by washing them on 
a cloth in a stream of water. 

From potatoes many products are obtained. These are made 
from the starch of the tuber, which is a good and cheap substitute 
for arrowroot. This starch, by roasting, becomes dextrin, or 
British gum. By boiling with weak sulphuric acid, potato starch 
is changed into glucose or grape sugar, and this, by fermentation, 
yields alcohol. Large quantities of spirits are made from potato 
starch, and are sold under the name of British brandy. 

The peel or rind of potato tubers contains a poisonous sub- 
stance called solanine. This is destroyed or dissipated when the 
potatoes are boiled or steamed.. 

Large quantities of potatoes are now imported into EnglancJ. 
from abroad. 

The potato being rather deficient in flesh-formers, cannot be 
used as a complete food, but is best employed as an addition to. 

pulse, lean meat, or other nitrogenous foods.* \ >. .^ 

^ 
< 

* Numerous specimens of starch and starchy preparations made from the 
potato are shown in Cases 49 and 50. These inchide imitation sago, tapioca, 
macaroni, and vermicelli. Glucose, and dextrin from potato starch are also- 
shown. The specimens are from Brazil, France, Holland, Prussia, and 
Sweden. 



• 1 '} y 



^/■ • 



Tn 


lib. 


oc 


gr- 


12 


O 


O 


i6i 


2 


2IO 


O 


140 


O 


21 


o 


70 


o 


70 



90 TURNIPS. 

Composition of Potatoes. 

Case 49 In too paxts. 

Water 75"° 

Fibrin and albumen - - - - 2*3 

Starch I5'4 

Dextrin and pectose' - - - - 2*0 

Fat 0-3 

qpllulose I'D 

Mineral matter ... - - ix> 

For I part cf flesh-formers in potatoes it would appear that 
there are 10 parts of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. But it is 
doubtful whether the flesh-formers are not much exaggerated in 
the above, as in all published analyses. Recent experiments 
tend to show that the ratio of flesh^brmers to heat-givers is nearer 
I to 20 than I to 10. According to Frankland,] i lb. of potatoes, 
when digested and oxidized in the body, might liberate force 
equal to 618 tons raised i ft high. The greatest amount of 
external work which it would enable a man to perform is 124 tons 
raised ift. 

TURKIPS. 

French, Naveis. G^noian, Wdssm Ruben, Italian, Navoni, 

{Brassua rapaJ) 

Cast4gL Tbe tnmip bek»^ to die Ordar of die Cross-flowers, 
or Ormc^artt^ so called because of their four petals being arranged as 
a CIQ6& The Swedish turnip, which is radier more nutritious tiian 
Aeoonunon tiimq>, is said to have spnmg, not firom Brasstca rafa, 
\mk fiNMn aoodier plant, B. c a m p e siiis ^ which also gaTe rise to rape 



TlietnmqvlikeiDany other plants of die same Older, CO 

fswmtial oiL The root is \txj watery, and contains 



Unlike tiie potato, the turnip contains no 
a jdlf4ike matt^, bdongii^ to what is called 



CARROTS. 



91 



turnips contain no more than one-half per cent, of flesh-formers, 
instead of the i per cent, usually assigned to them. 





Composition of 


White Turnips. 










In 


100 parts. 


In 
oz. 


lib. 
gr- 


Water - 


« • M • 


- 


928 


14 


371 


Albumen 


« • • • 


- 


05 





35 


Pectose 


- 


- 


4-0 





210 


Fat 


- 


- 


O'l 





7 


Cellulose and 


lignose 


m 


1-8 





126 


Mineral matter 


- 


0-8 





56 



For I part of flesh-formers in turnips there are 8 parts of 
heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 



Carrots. 

French, Carottes, German, Mohren. Italian, Carotie. 

(JDaucus caroia.) 

Case 48. The wild carrot grows abundantly on our southern 
coasts. It belongs to the Umbellifer Order, which includes many 
edible plants, as celery, parsnip, and parsley ; and many poisonous 
ones, as hemlock. The wild carrot, which is of pungent odour and 
disagreeable taste, has become much milder and more succulent 
by cultivation. The cultivated plant is said to have been intro- 
duced into England during the reign of Elizabeth. 

Carrots, unlike parsnips, contain no starch. They are more 
watery than parsnips of the same size, but they are more generally 
liked. The carrot is grown in all the quarters of the globe. /^ '• ■ 

Well-grown carrots (weighing about 8 oz.) contain — 



Water - 

Albumen 

Sugar - 

Gtmi and pectose - 

Fat - - - 

Cellulose and lignose 

Minerai matter 



In zoo parts. 




In I lb. 
oz. gr. 


89-0 




14 105 


0-5 




35 


4*5 




315 


0-5 




35 


0'2 




14 


4*3 




TJ^\ 


I'O 


••% 


10 



(. / 



)'■"■ 



92 PARSNIPS, 

For I part of flesh-formers in carrots there are lo of heat- 
givers, reckoned as starch. 

One pound of carrots cannot produce more than y^^oz, of the 
dry nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 

According to Frankland, i lb. of carrots, when digested and 
oxidized in the body, might set free a force equal to 322 tons 
raised i ft. high. The greatest amount of external work which 
it could enable a man to perform, is 64 tons raised i ft high. 

Parsnips. 

French, Pandis, German, Pasiinaken, Italian, PasHnache, 

(Pastinaca sativa,) 

Case 48. The garden parsnip is a cultivated variety of the 
wild parsnip, a native umbelliferous plant, like the carrot The 
cultivated variety has been grown since Roman times. 

The parsnip contains less water than the carrot. There is a 
good deal of starch, with some sugar, present in this root. 

The parsnip is often eaten with salt fish and salt beef, but its 
peculiar taste and texture are disliked by many persons. 

Both spirits and beer are occasionally prepared from parsnips- 

The chief constituents of parsnips are shown in accordance 
with the following analysis : — 



Water • 
Albumen 

Sugar - - - 
Starch - - - 
Pectose and dextrin 
Fat - - - 
Cellulose and lignose 
Mineral matter 



In 100 parts. 


In X lb. 




oz. gr. 


81 -0 


12 420 


1*2 


84 


30 


210 


3*5 


245 


2*2 


154 


IS 


105 


5-6 ... 


392 


i-o 


70 



For I part of flesh-formers in parsnips there are 10 parts ^ 
heat-givers, reckoned as statch. 

One pound of parsnips cannot produce quite J^ oz. of t^*' 
dry nitrogenous substance of muscle 01 ^e^. 



JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 93 

Beet Root. 

French, Betteraves, German, roihen Ruben, Italian, Barbahtetole. 

(Beta vulgaris.) 

Casesz. The sea-bcct {B. maritima), common on our southern 
shores, is thought to be the origin of the garden-beet, the sugar- 
beet, and the field-beet or mangold-wurzel. The red garden-beet 
has been long grown in England. Its root, which is of a rich red 
colour, is boiled, and then sliced and eaten in salads or alone. 
The plant belongs to the Goose-foot Order ( Chenopodiacece). 

The garden-beet contains nearly as much sugar as the best 
sugar-beet, which is so largely grown for making sugar in France, 
Belgium, Gennany, &c.* 

The quantity of flesh- formers in beet-root is but one-third of 
the amount usually assigned to this food, the greater part of the 
nitrogen present existing as nitrates, &c. 

Roots of garden-beet contain — 



In zoo parts. 


In z lb. 




oz. gr. 


82-2 


13 67 


0-4 


28 


lO'O 


I 262 


3*4 .. 


238 


O'l 


7 


3'o 


210 


0-9 


63 



Water 

Albumen 

Sugar 

Pectose 

Fat 

Cellulose and lignose - - - 
Mineral matter - - - - 

For I part of flesh-formers in beet-root there are more than 
30 parts of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

Jerusalem Artichokes. 

French, Topinambours. German, Erddpfel. Italian, TartufoU. 

(Helianthus tuberosus.) 

Case sz. Jerusalem artichokes are the tubers of a kind of 
sunflower, which is thought to have been a native of Mexico 

* A series of products obtained in the manufacture of sugar from beet-root 
is shown in Case la 



94 ONIONS. 

or Brazil. The plant has been cultivated in England, though 
not largely, since the beginning of the seventeenth century. Jeru- 
salem artichokes may be grown for many successive years on a 
poor, dry soil, and yet give a fair crop. The tubers should be left 
in the ground till required for use. 

There is no starch in the Jerusalem artichoke ; on this ac- 
count, imlike the potato, it does not become floury when boiled 
Instead of starch, the tubers of this plant contain a substance 
resembling starch known as inulin, as well as much sugar. 

The tubers of Jerusalem artichokes contain — 

In loo parts. In z lb. 

oz. gr. 

Water 80*0 ... 12 350 

Albumen 2*0 ... o 140 

Sugar, inulin, and pectose - - - 14*4 ... 2 135 

Fat 0-5 ... o 35 

Cellulose - - - - - - 2*0 ... o 140 

Mineral matter I'l ... ©77 

For I part of flesh-formers in Jerusalem artichokes there are 
7 parts of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

One pound of Jerusalem artichokes cannot produce more than 
about Yz oz, of the dry nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 

Onions. 

French, Oignons, German, Zwiebeln, Italian, Ctpolk. 

{Allium Cepa,) 

Case SI. The onion is a native of the Levant. It belongs to 
the Lily Order. The large and mild onions imported from Spain 
and Portugal are used as a vegetable food, but this bulb is com- 
monly regarded as a mere flavourer. The strong smell and taste 
of onions, as of the garlic and the leek, are due to a pungent 
volatile oil, rich in sulphur ; but the quantity of this oil is very 
minute, and is not represented in the analysis given here. 
Onions have a feeding value very near that of white turnips. 

Burnt, or rather scorched, omoiis aie >as^^iox c^^qnxcvxv^^q^ 



SWEET POTATO. 95 

Moderate-sized English onions contain on an average the 
lowing proportions of their chief constituents : — 

In zoo parts. In z lb. 

02. gr. 

Water 91*0 ... 14 245 

Albumen i*5 ... o 105 

Mucilage and pectose - - - - 4*8 ... o 336 

Fat 0-2 ... o 14 

Cellulose and lignose •• - - - 2'o ... o 140 

Mineral matter o'5 ... o 35 

For I part by weight of flesh-formers in fresh onions there 
are about 3^^ parts of heat-givers. 

One pound of onions cannot produce quite % oz. of the dry 
nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 



Sweet Potato. 
Batatas edulis. 

Case sz. This plant belongs to the Convolvulus Order. It is 
probably a native of the warmer parts of the American continent,, 
where it has long been extensively grown. It is also cultivated 
in Algeria and in Southern Europe. It has been called the 
Spanish potato. 

The chief difference between the tubers of this plant and 
those of the true potato lies in the presence of sugar in the 
former. 

The tubers of the sweet potato, and those of the different 
kinds of yam, resemble one another somewhat closely as to their 
constituents and feeding value, but they are the produce of 
plants belonging to widely different natural orders. 

The sweet potato contains — 



Water - 
Albumen 
Starch - 
Sugar - 
Pectose and gum 
Cellulose 
Mineral matter 



In zoo parts. 




In z lb. 
02. gr. 


74-0 




II 368 


1-5 




105 


15 'O 




2 17s 


3-0 




210 


2*2 




154 


2-8 




196 


IS 


••• 


\o«j 



WfN^^IS. 



96 VAM. 

For I part of flesh-formers in the sweet potato there are 13 
parts of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

One pound of sweet potatoes cannot produce quite ^ oz. 
of the dry nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 

Yam. 
(Dioscorea alaia.) % 

Case Si. The tubers of several species of twining shrubs be- 
longing to the genus Dioscorea are known as yams. The yam is 
grown in most tropical and some sub-tropical countries. It 
flourishes in Japan, the East and West Indies, the South Sea 
Islands, and is an important article of food. The tubers some- 
times weigh 30 and even 40 lb. 

A kind of yam from China {D, batatas)^ called in French 
Ignatne de Chine^ is cultivated with some success in France and 
Algeria; the produce has been known occasionally to exceed 
23 tons of tubers per acre. 

There is much resemblance both as to chemical composition 
and taste between the yam and the common potato. 

Yams contain on an average — 

In zoo parts. 

Water 79*6 

Albumen 2*2 

Starch 16*3 

Fat 0-5 

Cellulose 0*9 

Mineral matter - - - - 1*5 

For I part of flesh-formers in the yam there are 7>i parts of 
heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

One pound of yams cannot producemore than Yi oz. of the 
dry nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 

A few other roots of less importance, which are sometimes 
used as accompaniments of meat, may be named here. 



In 


X lb. 


oz. 


gr. 


12 


322 





154 


2 


196 





35 





63 





IDS 



/• .; •••••• • • 

• • • • • 



CABBAGE, 97 

The parsnip-chervil {Anthriscus bulbosus), a native of France, 
has an edible root like a small carrot. 

Rampion {Campanula rapunculus) is much grown in France, 
for the sake of the roots, which, are boiled till tender. 

Skirret consists of the small tuberous roots of a large, coarse, 
umbelliferous plant {Siutn Sisarum) from China. They are boiled 
for use. 

§ 4. — Leaves, Stems, Stalks, and whole Plants. 

The cabbage, with the numerous plants botanically connected 
with it, does not differ widely in nutritive value from the turnip. 
But it should be recollected that important mineral matters, as 
potash salts and phosphates, together with vegetable acids, 
flavouring substances, and a variety of active principles, are 
present in notable quantities in many of the succulent vegetables 
which we are abqut to consider. The asparagine in asparagus, 
the nitrate of potash in lettuces, and the pungent essential oil in 
watercress are instances in point It will, therefore, be con- 
venient to group these and many other plants together, not 
because they resemble one another much, but because they all 
form agreeable and wholesome accompaniments to more solid 
and nutritious articles of food. It should be added, that the great 
majority of the plants in this section are distinguished from those 
previously considered by the presence of chlorophyll, the green 
colouring matter of leaves ; its nutritive value is not known, how- 
ever, as yet 

Cabbage. 

French, Chou, German, Kohl, Italian, Cavolo, 

(Brassica oleracea.) 

Case 5a. The wild plant, one of the Cruciferce, from which 
the cabbage spmng, grows upon the southern and western coaste 
of England^ Wales, and Ireland. The same ivatwe ^\a.xv\. \s» ^^o 

-a 






In 


lib. 


oz. 


gr. 


14 


105 





105 





406 





35 





140 





84 



98 CABBAGE, 

the origin of Scotch kail, Brussels sprouts, savoys, red cabbage, 
and the cauliflower and broccoli. 

The popular German food, sauer-kraut, is made from ^iced 
cabbage, sprinkled with salt, pressed and fermented. 

The inner and younger leaves of the cabbage contain much 
more water than the older leaves outside. On the whole, this 
vegetable may be considered more nutritious than the turnip. 

The chief constituents of cabbage are shown in accordance 
with the following analysis ; — 

In 100 parts. 

Water 89*0 

Albumen 1*5 ... 

Sugar, starch, and gum - - - - 5*8 

Fat 0-5 

Cellulose and lignose - - - - 2*0 

Mineral matter 1*2 

For I part of flesh-formers in cabbages there are about 
4^ parts of heat-givers, reckoned as starch ; broccoli and cauli- 
flower are rather richer in flesh-formers than cabbage. One pound 
of cabbage contains flesh-formers equal to nearly ^ oz. of the dry 
nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 

According to Frankland, i lb. of cabbage, when digested and 
oxidized in the body, might set free force equal to 261 tons 
raised i ft high. The greatest amount of external work which it 
would enable a man to perform is 52 tons raised i ft. high. 

Besides the cabbage and its many varieties, the green leaves 
of several other plants are eaten after having been boiled. Spinach 
{Spinaaa oleracea), a. native of Western Asia, is used in this way^ 
and is a wholesome vegetable; it contains much nitre. The 
leaves of some of the smaller varieties of beet {Befa vulgaris) are 
sometimes substituted for spinach. The mountain spinach, or 
orache {Airiplex hortensis)^ was once much grown in this country, 
and is still cultivated in France ; it is a native of Tartary. The 
young shoots or tops of the common s\.\ii^iv^Tvft\xift<^C/rftV-a dioicay 



%,^. 



SEA'KALE. 99 

are not unlike spinach when properly boiled and dressed. The 
leek {Allium Porrum) is another green and succulent vegetable, 
which is esteemed especially by the Scotch and Welsh. The 
whole plant, bulb and leaves, is eaten. It should be blanched by 
earthing up. It may be simply boiled, or introduced in place of 
onions (which it resembles in flavour and composition) into soups 
and stews. 

The next plant in this section, and one which we may describe 
more fully, is sea-kale, which is rendered mild and agreeable in 
taste by being earthed up. 

Sea-kale. 
{Crambe tnarttima,) 

Cases*. The sea-kale is a native perennial Crucifer. It is 
found, though rarely, in a wild state, upon some of our sandy and 
shingly coasts. It has been cultivated in England for more than 
200 years, and was introduced to the Continent from this country. 

Cultivated sea-kale is larger and more succulent than the wild 
plant, and has a more agreeable taste. It is earthed up, and the 
blanched stems and leaf-stalks then produced are eaten, after 
having been boiled. 

Sea-kale usually contains no sugar, but a good deal of mucilage 
and some starch. 

Freshly-cut sea-kale contains — 

In zoo parts. In z lb. 

. oz. gr. 

Water 93'3 ... 14 406 

Albumen 2*4 ... o 168 

Mucilage and starch .... 2*8 ... o 196 

CeUulose o'9 ... o 63 

Mineral matter - - / - • - . 0*6 ... o 42 

Sea-kale contains a good deal of nitrogenous matter of one 
kind or another, but it is probable that the proportion of flesh- 
foitners to heat-givers is not exactly shown in our analysis, which^ 
indeed, gives the ratio i to i, or thereabouts. 



- ^ 



loo VEGETABLE MARROW. 

The Cardoon is a perennial composite {Cynara Carduncuius), 
3, native of Southern Europe. It is much like the common 
artichoke, but the part eaten is the blanched stalk of the young 
leaves. It is a very handsome plant 

The Artichoke {Cynara Scolymus) is a native composite from 
Barbary and Southern Europe. The fleshy receptacle of the 
flower, the fleshy scales of the involucre, and the blanched leaf 
stalks are eaten after having been boiled. They have a delicate 
flavour and agreeable textiure, but contain little nutritive matter. 
The young buds are sometimes pickled. 

Asparagus {Asparagus officinalis) is a wild seaside English 
plant, made more succulent by cultivation. It is remarkable as 
containing a crystalline alkaloid, asj[>aragine^ which is thought to 
possess diuretic properties. 

The next articles of vegetable food which we shall notice in 
the present section are the vegetable marrow and the tomato. In 
both these plants it is the fruit which is eaten, but as these fruits 
are not valued because of that usual ingredient of fruits — sugar- 
but are used to accompany meat and other foods with which salt 
is eaten, they may be suitably considered here. 

Vegetable Marrow. 
{Cucurbita ovifera.) 

Case S3. The vegetable marrow is thought to be a variety of 
the common gourd {Cucurbita maxima'), a plant which appears 
to have given rise also to the pumpkin and the squash. The 
vegetable marrow is now largely grown in England. It delights 
in a rich and open soil, with abundance of moisture. 

Although the fruit of the vegetable marrow is very watery, 
yet it contains more nutritive matter than its close ally, the 
cucumber. In vegetable marrows, when fit for cooking, starch 
as well as sugar occurs. 

Peeled and properly cooked, young vegetable marrows form 
a irholesome and agreeable food, oi d^\\caA.^ ^-acsciMt a.nd pleasant 
consistence. 






TOMATOES. 



lOX 



Peeled vegetable marrows contain — 

In zoo parts. 

Water 

Albumen 

Sugar - - ' 

Starch 

Fat 

Cellulose 

Mineral matter 



94-8 
0-6 

2*0 

0*6 

0*2 

1*3 
0*5 



Inzlb. 
oz. gr. 

15 
o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 



73 

42 

140 

42 
14 
91 
35 



For I part of flesh-formers in the vegetable marrow there are 
about 4 parts of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

Tomatoes. 
French, Pommes d* amour. German, Liehesdpfd. Italian, Pomid'oro, 

{Lycopersicum esculenium.) 

Case 53- The tomato, or love apple, is a plant belonging to the 
Nightshade Order — an order which includes the potato, the 
capsicum, and tobacco. It is most probably a native of Mexico. 

The fruit of the tomato requires a good deal of heat to ripen 
it thoroughly. The plant should be trained on a sheltered wall. 
They require good soil, and abundance of water. The tomato 
is now much more grown in England than formerly, several 
varieties, some with yellow and others with red fruit, being 
cultivated. 

Ripe tomatoes, which have a pleasant acidulous taste, are 
used in sauce and in other ways with cooked meat Unripe 
tomatoes make a good pickle. 

Ripe tomatoes contain — 



Water - - - 

Albumen 

Sugar - - - 

Madic acid 

Cellulose and pectose 

Mineral matter 



In 100 parts. 

89-8 
14 


In 
oz. 

14 




lib. 

161 
98 


6-0 





420 


07 





49 


1*3 
08 






91 
56 



For I part of flesh-formers in tomatoes tVieie aie ^owX. a^^^xXs. 
oF heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 



102 MUSHROOMS. 

Fungi and Mushrooms. 

The value of cryptogamic plants generally as food is ill under- 
stood j and especially is the real nature of the several consti- 
tuents in the numerous kinds of fungi which have been eaten 
safely, still in some measure doubtful. A delicate and agreeable 
flavour is possessed by the common mushroom {Agaricus campes- 
tris), and by several allied species — by the morel {Morchella escu- 
lenta), and by the truffle, an underground species {Tuber ctbarium)) 
but none of these plants can be regarded as substantive articles 
of diet. They are used chiefly as flavourers in the form of 
sauces, like ketchup, or, as in the case of truffles, as stuffing for 
animal food. The truffle, it should be stated, is sought for by 
means of dogs trained to scent it ; in France pigs are employed. 
Amongst other edible fungi (many of which are often called 
toadstools) may be named the champignon {Marasmitis oreades\ 
the chanterelle \{Cantharellus cibarius), the orange agaric {Lac- 
tarius deiictosus), the edible boletus (Boletus edults), and many 
other species. But it is hazardous for persons who are not well 
acquainted with fungi to attempt to distinguish between those 
which are harmless and those which are poisonous. Serious and 
even fatal mistakes have thus arisen. We give some details 
concerning the common mushroom, as an example of tliis kind of 
food.* 

Mushrooms. 

French, Champignons. German, Schwdmme. Italian, FungJu. 

{Agaricus campesiris.) 

Case 54. This is the fungus or mushroom generally eaten in 
England, although several other species are used as food on the 
Continent, and occasionally in this country also. 

* In Case 54 are shown two specimens of a fungus {Mylitta australis) called 
"native bread," from Tasmania ; also dried edible fungi from Tahiti, preserved, 
fungi, and various preparations of the common mushroom. Numero*^^ 
drawings of Bntish edible and poisonous i\m^ sti^ exbSc^Xfc^ueax iVsis Case. 



When salted 


In 


lib. 


oz. 


gr. 


14 


175 





350 





266 





49 





35 



ICELAND MOSS, 103 

The common mushroom, the champignon, and the morel, are 
nearly identical in chemical composition ; the truffle contains 
moite than twice as much solid matter. Mushrooms are highly 
nitrogenous ; they also contain much fat. 

Mushrooms may be stewed, broiled, or pickled, 
and pressed, they yield ketchup, an agreeable sauce. 

The chief constituents of mushrooms are — 

In 100 parts. 

Water 90*0 

Albuminoids, &c. - - - - 5*0 

Carbohydrates, &c. - - - - 3*8 

Fat 07 

Mineral matter 0*5 

Though mushrooms contain, when dry, about half their weight 
of nitrogenous matter, its nature and feeding value have not been 
ascertained. 

Lichens. 

Case 55. 

Although several kinds of lichen have been turned to account 
in the arts (as in dyeing), very few are used as food. Tripe de 
roche, or rock tripe, is one of these, however — or we should say 
that the several plants to which this name is given have been 
occasionally used as food by distressed Arctic voyagers. Lung 
lichen {Siicta pulmonaria), several kinds of Peltidca^ and the 
reindeer moss {Cladonia rangifertna), are also edible. But the 
best known of all these cryptogamic plants is the lichen com- 
monly called Iceland moss. It may be taken as illustrating the 
composition of all the edible species. 

Iceland Moss. 
{Cetraria islandica,) 

Case 55. This plant is not a. moss, but a lichen. It grows 
abundantly in high northern latitudes, upon otherwise barren 
rocks: it is also found in the mountainous d\sU\cX^ ol Qx\^'a5^ 
Britain, Ireland, and even oi Southern Europe. 



I04 SEA' WEEDS. 

Iceland moss is but little used in Iceland. When employed 
there, it is ground, mixed with flour, and added to soups. 

Iceland moss chiefly consists of a substance called lichenin, 
which closely resembles starch. One part of lichenin yields a 
jelly with twenty parts of boiling water. There is an acid in 
Iceland moss, to which its bitter taste is due ; this may be 
removed by soaking the moss in a weak solution of carbonate 
of soda. 

Iceland moss. yields much sugar when boiled with weak sul- 
phuric acid ; the sugar thus formed may be fermented, and a 
spirit distilled from the fermented liquor. 

Iceland moss contains — 



Water 

Albuminoids 
Lichen-starch 
Lichen-acids, &c. 
Cellulose 
Mineral matter • 



For I part of flesh-formers in Iceland moss there are 8 parts 
of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

One pound of Iceland moss cannot produce more than V\^ oz. 
of the dry nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 

Sea-weeds. 

Sea-weeds belong, like the fungi and the lichens, to the great 
sub-kingdom of the Cryptogamia, or flowerless plants. The exact 
nutritive value of those kinds which are eaten is not made out, 
but they are not capable alone of sustaining life for any length of 
time. They have proved useful in times of scarcity to the poorer 
inhabitants of some maritime countries ; they have been used in 
Txdmi Hrhen the potato crop Yvas ia\\^d. ^xx\. %^^.>n^^^^ ^t^ 



In TOO parts. 


In I lb. 




oz. gr. 


lO'O 


I 262 


8-7 ... 


I 172 


70*0 


II 88 


6-3 ... 


I 3 


3*5 


245 


1-5 


105 



SEA- WEEDS, 105 

rather to be regarded as occasional dainties, and as affording an 
agreeable substitute for ordinary vegetables. One kind described 
more fully further on, is made into a jelly for consumptive 
patients. Besides this we name, 

Laver or sloke (Porphyra la^iniata and P, vulgaris) is found 
on the English coast. It is salted, and dressed with vinegar, 
pepper, and oil. 

Green laver {Uiva lactuca and U, iatissima) resembles the 
purple laver, but is inferior. 

Tangle, or red ware, also called by other names, is Laminaria 
digitata and Z. saccharina. It requires thorough boiling, and is 
then to be eaten with butter, pepper, and lemon-juice. 

Badderlochs, hen ware, honey ware, murlins {Alaria esculenta). 
The part of the plant which is eaten is the thick midrib which 
runs through the frond and the fruit-bearing appendages. 

The dulse of the south-west of England is the Iridcea edulis 
of botanists. It is said to resemble in its flavour roasted oysters. 

Dulse of the Scotch, dellisk, dellish, duileisg, water-leaf 
{Rhodymenia palmata). The Icelanders use it as an article of 
diet, under the name of the sugar fucus. It is also used to 
flavour soups, ragouts, and other dishes. 

Several other sea-weeds are employed as food Ceylon moss 
is Plocarta Candida, In China the people are very fond of them, 
and many kinds are collected and added to soups, or are eaten 
alone with sauce. One of these, a species of Nostoc, the Plocaria 
tenax, is called Chinese moss. The Corsican moss should be 
Gracilaria Helminthocorton^ but is generally Laurenda obtusa. It is 
found on the coasts of the Mediterranean. Another sea-weed was 
recently imported into London under the name of Australian 
moss (Eucheuma speciosum), but it tastes too strongly of the sea to 
be pleasant. Durvillaa utilis is another sea-weed, used at Val- 
paraiso as food. Spharococcus lichenoides is found on the south 
coast of England, and has been used in pickles and so\r^^. 

The commonest edible seaweed is called 



io6 SALAD PLANTS. 

Irish Moss. 
{Chondrus crispus.) 

Cast S5. Irish moss (really a sea-weed) is one <^ the few marine 
plants which is commonly used as human food in Eorope. It is 
abundant on our rocky coastSw Irish moss is collected on the 
north and north-west shores of Ireland ; some is imported from 
Hamburg. 

The trae Irish moss, or carraigeen, is Chondrus crispus^ but 
other species, such as Gigartina mamiUasa^ are frequendy col- 
lected with it Both these kinds, as well as several similar edible 
sea-weeds, have about the same nutritive vahie^ whidii is con- 
siderable. 

The chief constituent of Irish moss is a kind <^ mucilage, 
which dissolves to a stiff paste in boiling water. There is also a 
htde iodine and much sulphur in it. Before boiling it in water or 
milk, Irish moss should be soaked in cold water for an hour 

Irish moss is used as a food, and as a remedy in chest 
diseases It is sometimes given to isnsL animaK 
Irish moss, as sold, contains — 

Ib xoo ports. 

Water iS-S 

Albaminoids ..... 9*^ 

MncOage, &c. - - • . . 55-4 

CeOnlose ..... 2-2 

Mincnd matter .... 14-2 

For I part of fleshformers in Irish moss there are about 5^ 
ports <^ heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

SAija>s. 

Salad plants are very numerous ; but in former times many 
green v^etables were eaten uncooked which are now entirely 
io^gotten. In 1669, Evelyn gave a list of 73 plants so used. His 



In 


ilh. 


OK. 


V- 


3 


3 


I 


221 


8 


378 





154 


2 


119 



SALAD PLANTS. 107 

"Discourse of Sallets" includes a large number of weeds, the 

present neglect of which is not to be regretted ; yet some few of 

the green, fresh herbs which he names, might be introduced again 

with advantage. In France, the variety of salads in common use 

is much greater than in England, and it must be added, that the 

skill in preparing them for consumption is more marked. Too 

much care cannot be bestowed in the thorough cleansing of salad 

herbs, especially in the case of watercresses, with which many 

internal parasitic or entozoal animals are often introduced into the 

human body. Salad plants generally contain but little nourishing 

food of the heat-giving and flesh-forming-ikinds. But they are 

useful as being comparatively rich in salini matters, especially in 

potash salts, which are generally extracted from cooked vegetables 

in the process of boiling. They serve also to introduce large 

quantities of water into the system, and are refreshing additions 

to richer foods, especially in hot weather, when their " crisp, cool 

succulence " is peculiarly acceptable. In order to be thus juicy 

and crisp, lettuces and other salads, such as cucumbers, must not 

be gathered when wilted and drooping after a hot day ; too often 

this is the case, or else subsequent partial drying causes toughness. 

To obviate this defect, the root of lettuce or celery, &c., when 

dug up, should be trimmed under water, so as not to expose the 

cut stem or leaf-stalks to the air. The plants will then, if left in 

the water, imbibe more fluid very readily till their tissues are well 

filled. The stalk of the cucumber should be cut under water, and 

remain in it just in the same way. In addition to lettuce, celery^ 

watercress, and cucumber, which are more fully described further 

. on, the following salad plants may be here noted : 

Cress (Lepidium sativum) is a small cruciferous annual, 
probably a native of Persia. Its seeds may be grown very readily 
Upon any moist surface, and are commonly sown with those of 
White mustard, to yield the familiar spring salad known as mustard 
and cress. 

The Radish {Raphanus saHvus)^ like most cruciferous plants. 



io8 CELERY. 

has a pungent taste. When small and quickly grown, it is adapted 
for use in salads. It may be cooked with advantage. 

Endive {Cichorium Endivia) belongs to the Compositce : it is a 
native of Northern China. It is much used in salads, but its 
leaves, even when blanched, are rather bitter. 

Succory or Chicory {Cichorium Intybus) is a wild English 
plant, near the endive. Its leaves, when blanched, are used as 
salad. 

Borage, is Borago officinalis) it is used in claret and cider cups 
chiefly. Its leaves have a taste resembling that of cucumber. 

Burnet {Poterium sanguisorbd) belongs to the Rosacea ; its 
leaves, like those of borage, have much the taste of borage, and 
are used similarly. 

Samphire {Crithmum maritimum) is an aromatic and saline 
umbelliferous plant, common on many sea shores and cliffs. Once 
it was much used in salads ; now its leaves, gathered in May, are 
employed only in pickles. 

Sorrel {Rumex scutatus)^ a hardy perennial, native of Southern 
Europe, is much grown in France as a salad herb. The English 
species {R, acetosa and R, acetoselld) are less juicy and more sour. 
All the kinds of sorrel contain oxalic acid and oxalates in 
abundance. 

Beet-root has been already described (p. 93). 

A fair idea of the composition of the fresh and juicy vegetables 
commonly used as salads may be gathered from the following 
analysis. It is necessary to state, however, that the flavour of 
these plants, depending, as it generally does, upon traces oi 
volatile oils too small to be weighed, is not explained by the 
figures representing the chief components of these vegetables. 

Celery. 

French, Celeri. German, Sellerie, Italian, Sedano. 

{ApiuM graveolens,) 
Case 56. Celery is a native biennial umbellifer, common in 



LETTUCE. 109. 

sandy marshes. The wild plant has a very strong and disagree- 
able taste and smell ; the cultivated varieties are tender, mild, and 
succulent, when earthed up and supplied with abundance of water. 
The blanched leaf-stalks of celery are eaten uncooked, as a salad 
lierb, and are also introduced into soups; they may also be 
stewed in the same manner as onions or sea-kale. The fruits of 
celery contain more than the other parts of the plant of the 
peculiar essential oil to which its characteristic odour and flavour 
are due. The quantity of this oil in celery as eaten is too minute 
to be represented in the analysis. 

Celery, it will be seen, contains some sugar. Freshly-cut 
celery has the following composition : — 

Water 

Albumen 

Mucilage and starch .... 

Sugar 

Cellulose 

Mineral matter- .... 

For I part of flesh-formers in celery there are about 3 parts of 
heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

Lettuce. 

French, Laitue. German, Lattich, Italian, Lattuga, 

{Lactuca sattva.) 

Cascsfi. The cultivated lettuce may have originated from 
Lactuca scartola, a wild form common in Europe. 

The lettuce is the most generally used of all the vegetables 
which are eaten in the uncooked state. The varieties grown may 
be included in the cos or upright lettuce, and the cabbage or 
spreading lettuce. 

Lettuces contain but little nutriment of any kind, except 
mineral salts, especially nitre. This and other soluble salts are 
removed from vegetables which require cooking by the water in 
which they are boiled. A small quantity of a sleep-producing 



In 100 parts. 


In I lb. 




oz. gr. 


93'3 


14 406 


1*2 


84 


1-6 


112 


2*2 


154 


0-9 


63 


08 


56 



no WATERCRESS. 

substance, called lactucartn, is found in the stem of the lettuce, 
particularly when the plant is flowering. 

Lettuces are a refreshing addition to more solid food. 

The lettuce contains — 

la xoo parts. In x lb. 

at, gr. 
Water 96*0 ... 15 157 

Albumen o*7 ••• O 49 

Starch, sugar, and gum - - - I'o ... o 112 

Leaf-green and fat - - - - 0*2 ... o 14 

Cellulose 0*5 ... ©35 

Mineral matter - - - - i*o ... o 70 

The quantity of heat-givers and flesh-formers in the lettuce is 
insignificant. 



Watercress. 

French, Cresson (Teau, German, Wasserkresse, Italian, Cresdont 

{Nasturtium officinale.') 

Case 56. The watercress is a native cruciferous plant, which 
grows freely in wet places, especially in shallow streams. It is 
one of the most popular and most wholesome of all salad plants. 
It is generally assumed to owe its pungent taste and medicinal 
value to the presence of an essential oil, containing, like that of 
mustard, a considerable quantity of sulphur. But it has been 
shown that the chief constituent of the essential oil of watercress, 
though rich in nitrogen, contains no sulphur j there is, however, 
much sulphur, in one form or another, in this plant. Watercress 
is also remarkable for the quantity of mineral matter which is 
found in it. 

The younger shoots of the watercress should be selected ; they 
have a pleasant acidulous yet warm taste. Great care should be 
taken that they are perfectly dean and free firom adhering animal 
matters. 



CUCUMBERS. 



Ill 



Watercress contains — 

Water - 
Albuminoids - 

Starch, gum, &c 
Leaf-green and fat - 
Cellulose and lignose 
Mineral matter 



The dietetic value of the watercress cannot be judged of by 
the proportion or amount of flesh-formers and heat-givers present, 
as it depends mainly upon the mineral matters, aromatic oil, and 
other minor ingredients. 



In xoo parts. 


In X lb. 




oz. gr. 


93*1 


14 392 


17 


119 


27 


189 


0-5 


35 


07 


49 


1*3 


91 



Cucumbers. 

French, Coneomhres, German, Gurken. Italian, Cocomeri, 

{Cucumts sativus,) 

Cast 56. The cucumber, like the melon, the vegetable marrow, 
and the pumpkin, is a tropical plant, belonging to the Gourd 
Order {CucurbitacecR), 

These plants flourish best in a rich but open soil ; they 
require much water. When the fruit of the cucumber is grown 
quickly under glass it is more juicy and digestible than when 
grown slowly in the open air. 

Yoimg cucumbers are pickled in vinegar, and are known as 
gherkins. 

The rind of the cucumber fruit is indigestible. The fruit 
itself contains little else besides water, some grape sugar, and a 
trace of volatile flavouring matter. 

Peeled cucumbers contain — 



Water - 
Albumen 
Sugar (glucose) 
Pectose and gum 
Cellulose 
Mineral matter 



In xoo parts. 
962 




Inx 
oz. 

15 


lb. 

gr- 
171 


0*2 







14 


2'0 







140 


07 







49 


0-5 


• • « 






3S 
1^ 



112 FRUITS, 

§ 5. — Saccharine and Oily Fruits. 

Many of the vegetable products in this section are esteemed 
rather for their pleasant or refreshing taste than for any nutritive 
value which they may be assumed to possess. But though this 
is the case in our country, the statement is not true generally. 
The banana and the fig, among fruits rich in sugar, and the 
coco-nut, among those which abound in oil, are of vital import, 
ance as substantive articles of diet to the populations of many 
countries, where the fruits we have just named may be grown 
easily and abundantly. But, of course, there are some fruits 
which could never prove of much service as food, owing to the 
large quantities of water and small quantities of flesh-forming 
matter which characterise the more juicy and succulent sorts. 
Yet such fruits are especially valuable on account of their potash 
salts, the citrate^ malate, and tartrate. When fish or meat which 
has been preserved with common salt, the chloride of sodium, 
forms the chief article of diet, the blood loses much of its 
potash compounds, and becomes unhealthy, unless the loss be 
made up. Now, fresh vegetables and fruits, notably the lemon 
and the lime, effect this, for the reason above stated. But fiiiits 
have a nutritive value, if a small one ; and besides that, their 
flavour and juiciness may serve to stimulate a weak appetite, to 
give variety and lightness to an otherwise solid diet, and to 
contribute, in a palatable and refreshing form, much of the water 
required for the daily needs in digestion and assimilation. 

In the analyses of fruits which are here given, we have not 
pretended to enter into all those differences, often very minute, 
which distinguish fruits from one another. Sometimes the scent 
and flavour of a fruit altogether defy the powers of chemical 
analysis; sometimes the same odorous substance is detected in 
two products of decidedly different fragrance. And then so much 
of the character of fruits depends upon their texture — b. quality 
that cannot be analysed— that we must rest content with a rather 






APPLES, ' 113 

■imperfect account of the chief nutrients and characteristic com- 
pounds present It should be added, that many fruits contain 
when ripe/^/«, the jelly-like substance into which the pectose of 
unripe fruits is changed ; that most fruits, especially those which 
are soft and watery, rapidly suffer decay and fermentation ; that 
the substances to which fruits owe their colour are insignificant 
in amount, and of no known dietetic importance ; and that the 
dianges which succulent fruits undergo, and the frequent presence 
of much acid or acid-salt in them, renders them liable to cause, 
especially when unripe or over-ripe, diarrhoea and other derange- 
ments of the digestive tract. Irritation, and even fatal inflam- 
mation of the intestine, have resulted from the indigestible skin^ 
of certain firuits, as plums. 

Before describing the oily fruits, most of which are commonly 
spoken of as nu/s, a few examples of characteristic and important 
fiiiits containing sugar will be given. The apple and pear may 
take precedence; and then we may consider other fruits which 
are natives of this country, or ripen in our climate. Foreign 
fiiiits will afterwards be noticed, especially those which — ^like 
oranges, grapes, and figs — are imported in large quantities into 
Great Britain. No strict arrangement, either botanical or che- 
mical, will be followed. 



Apples. 

• * 
French, Pommes, German, Ajfe/. Italian, MeU. 

(Pyrus Ma/us,) 

Gate 57. The apple — ^like the pear, the quince, and the 
medlar — ^belongs to the Rose Order. The numerous varieties 
of cultivated apples have sprung firom the wild apple or crab, a 
native of Great Britain. The apple is one of the hardiest of 
trees, but the fruit requires a considerable degree of summer heat 
to bring it to perfection. In the southern hemisphere, as in New 

I 



114 PEARS. 

Zealand and Australia, it ripens well; yet good English appleS 
have not been excelled in flavour and firmness. 

The fermented liquor called cider is made from the expressed 
juice of apples. This fruit is also extensively used in pies^ 
puddings, sauces, and confectionery. Dried or pressed apples 
are known as Normandy pippins, Norfolk biffins, &c. 

The apple is an agreeable fruit j it is made very wholesome 
by baking or boiling. 

Apples contain a small quantity of a fragrant essential oil, not 
represented in the following analysis : — 



Water 

Albumen - - - 

Sugar . - - 

Malic acid - - - 

Pectose, pectin, and gum 

Cellulose - - - 

Mineral matter - 



In xoo parts. 


In I lb. 




ox. gr. 


830 


13 122 


0-4 


28 


6-8 


I 39 


1*0 


70 


S'2 


364 


3'2 


224 


0-4 


.. 28 



For I part of flesh-formers in apples there are 20 parts of 
heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

Pears. 

French, Poires, German, Birnen. Italian, Pere, 

(Pyrus commums,) 

Case 57. where ^^^ P^^' ^^^ ^^^ ^PP^^' ^^ qUlUCC, and the 

itIifciS ^^L^ medlar, belongs to a section of the Rose Order, 
of Pears." Called PomocecB. The wild pear-tree is a native of 

England j it is the origin of the many improved kinds now in 
cultivation. 

Some pears are hard and tasteless when gathered^ requiring to 
be stored several months before they become fit for eating. Other 
varieties ripen early, and very soon afterwards begin to decay. 

Some pears are adapted for baking, others for stewing. From 
some kinds the strong fermented liquor known as perry is made. 



In I 


lb. 


oz. 


gr. 


13 


203 





21 


I 


52 





7 





322 





259 





21 



GOOSEBERRIES. 1 1 5 

An artificial " Essence of Jargonelle Pears " is much used for 
flavouring " pear-drops," and other sweetmeats j it is a solution in 
spirit of amyl acetate. It is thought that the flavour of pears is 
partly due to this substance. 

Pears contain — 

In xoo parts. 

Water 84*0 

Albumen 0*3 

Sugar 7*o ... 

Malic acid o'l ... 

Pectose and gum 4*6 

Cellulose 37 ... 

Mineral matter 0*3 

The Quince {Cydonia vulgaris) is a native of Southern Eiu*ope. 
Its strongly-flavoured fruits are sometimes added to apple-pies and 
puddings j they make an excellent marmalade, and also a very 
agreeable jeUy. Quince seeds are rich in mucilage. 

The Medlar {Cydania germanica) is a common European 
plant. Its fruit is not eatable imtil it has undergone a 
singular natural change, which is not in reality a process of decay, 
though it may appear to be so. 

Some other fruits of the Pomacea^ a division of the Rose 
Order, are eaten. 

Gooseberries. 

French, Groseilks. German, Stachelbeeren. Italian, Uve spine, 

{Ribes Grossularia,') 

Ooe 57. The gooseberry grows wild in Great Britain and in 

* many parts of Northern Europe. It belongs to the same order 

of plants as the red currant and the black currant. Numerous 

varieties of the gooseberry have arisen in cultivation. The 

fruits of these sorts do not differ much in chemical composition, 

although imlike in size, colour, and flavour. 

In the North of England this fruit is eyteriSwA-^ cxi^>c«^^^^ 



ii6 CURRANTS, STRAWBERRIES, RASPBERRIES. 

and has been brought to a great degree of perfection. It is a 
wholesome fruit, especially when cooked; it makes a good 
preserve and a tolerable wine. Large quantities of gooseberries 
are bottled for winter use. 

The gooseberry contains from 6 to 8 per cent of sugar, 
together with about i J^ per cent, of citric and malic acids. 

Gooseberries contain, as an average — 

In loo parts. In x lb. 

oz. gr. 

Water 86x) ... 13 33* 

Albumen 0*4 ... o 28 

Sugar 7X) ... I 52 

Citric acid I'S ••• o 105 

Pectose and gum 1*9 ... o 133 

CeUulose 27 ••• o 189 

Mineral matter O'S ... o 35 

For I part of flesh-formers in ripe gooseberries there are 
about 20 parts of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. The quantity 
of flesh-formers in i lb. of gooseberries is insignificant 

The Black Currant is Ribes nigrum, while the Red and 
White Currant both belong to another species, R. rubrum. 
Cultivation has greatly improved the quality and increased the 
size of these fruits. Many varieties of red currant are grown. 
In composition these fruits do not differ much from the goose- 
berry. They are not nearly related to the small dry fruits called 
currants, which are produced by a small vine. 

The Strawberry, though containing more water than the 
gooseberry or the currant, has a richer fragrance and flavour. 
The cultivated varieties have arisen from several species of 
Fragraria, but mainly from the wild F. vesca, the conmion straw- 
berry of our English woods. 

The Raspberry {Rubus idceus) is a native of Britain. 
Several varieties of the cultivated plant are grown, the fruits being 
either red or pale amber. From the raspberry, as well as from 
the gooseberry and currant, jam, jelly, and wine of good quality 



GRAPES, 117 

are made. Strawberries are often preserved with sugar, but this 
fruit is perhaps better appreciated as a dessert fruit 

The Blackberry {Ruhus fruticosus) and the Dewberry 
{R,c(Bsius) are wild fruits which would repay cultivation. The 
flavour of some of the wild sorts is decidedly superior to that of 
others, and these may be made to yield a good preserve and a 
full-flavoured wine. 

The Barberry {Berberis vulgaris) is a native of Britain. Its 
bright red fruit has an acid taste, but makes a pleasant preserve. 

The Bearberry {Arctostaphylos uva-urst) is a British plant 
belonging to the Heath Order. Its red berries are eaten by 
grouse. 

The Bilberry {Vaccinium myrtillis) and Whortleberry 
( V, uliginosurn) are common in many woods. Their fruits may 
be made into a preserve. 

The Cranberry is nearly related to the bilberry. The fruits 
of several species are used in the form of jams and in tarts. Large 
quantities of cranberries are imported from Russia and North 
America, 

The Elderberry is the fruit of Sambucus nigra^ a native tree. 
A richly-flavoured wine is made from elderberries. 

Grapes. 

French, Raisins. German, Weintrauben, Italian, Uve, 

( Vitis vinifera,) 

Case 58. The vine was very probably originally a native of 
Western Asia and the region south of the Caspian. It is pro- 
fitably grown between 30*^ and 40? north latitude. 

By long-continued cultivation of the original plant in difierent 
soils and climates, numerous varieties of the vine have arisen. 
Most of these kinds are grown for wine-making in France, Ger- 
many, Southern Europe, the Cape, Australia, &c. Some varieties 
3deld fruits, which are simply dried. These are known as Valentia, 



ii8 PLUMS, 

muscatel, and sultana raisins — the last, from Turkey, have no 
seeds. Raisins are rich in sugar. The dried currants of the 
shops are merely very small raisins from a variety of the vine 
grown in the Ionian Isles ; they are indigestible. 

Fresh ripe grapes contain much sugar, sometimes nearly 20 
per cent The acid of grapes is chiefly tartaric, part of which is 
combined with potash. 

Fresh grapes, of average quality, contain — 

In 100 parts. In i lb. 

oz. gr. 

Water 80*0 ... 12 35^ 

Albumen 07 ... o 49 

Sugar (glucose) 13*0 ... 2 35 

Tartaric acid 0*8 ... o 56 

Pectose and gum 3'i ... o 217 

Cellulose 2*0 ... o 140 

Mineral matter 0*4 ... o 28 

For I part of flesh-formers in grapes there are about 20 parts 

of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. Grapes are twice as nutritious 

as gooseberries.* 

Plums, &c. 

The cherry, the plum, the apricot, and the peach are the 
chief " stone-fruits." They all belong to the same section (JDru- 
pacecz) of the Rose Order, and are characterised by the presence 
of a hard seed with the fleshy pericarp. This seed contains an 
edible kernel, generally rich in oil, and having an aromatic some- 
what bitter taste. 

The cherry is Prunus Cerasus, This fruit is generally richer 
in sugar than many other fruits which ripen in this country, 
often containing 10 per cent, and sometimes more. One variety 
rather less sweet than the morello, is specially used in preparing 
the liqueur cherry brandy. 

Many kinds of plums, as damsons, prunes, French plums, 

* In Cases 14, 15, and 37 will be found bunches of currants from Cepha- 
lonia, with raisins, muscatels, sultanas, and currants from Patras, Cephalonia, 
Zante, Gulf of Salonica, Vostizza, Spain, Naples, Persia. Turkey, and South 
Australia ; also illustration of French modes of cultivating^the grape-vine. 



PEACHES. 119 

greengages, are now extensively grown here or on the Continent 
There is less sugar in plums generally than in cherries, but they 
contain a very large amount of pectose and pectin, the chief sub- 
stances to which the gelatinizmg character of these fruits is due. 
In the greengage, for instance, Fresenius found i j4 per cent, of 
sugar only, but not less than loj^ per cent, of pectous substances, 
or vegetable jelly. 

The peach is here described more at length, as an example of 
this class of fruits, which, it must be noted, are generally less 
wholesome than most of those already considered in these pages. 

Peaches. 

French, Piches, German, Pjirsiche, Italian, Pesche, 

{^Amygdalus persica, ) 

Case 59. The pcach and the nectarine are produced by varieties 
of the same tree. It belongs to the almond group of the Rose 
Order. 

The peach is now grown in many temperate climates. American 
peaches are said to be inferior to the English in richness of 
flavour ; they are imported into this country dried, and also in tins. 

The kernels of peach-stones yield an oil identical with that of 
bitter almonds ; they are used in flavouring liqueurs. There is 
not much nutritive matter in the peach, but it is an agreeable and 
refreshing fruit. The quantity of sugar it contains is but small, 
yet the acid present is masked by much vegetable jelly, included 
in the analysis below imder " pectose and gum." The skin of the 
peach is indigestible. 

Peaches contain, after removal of the stones — 

In 100 parts. In x lb. 

oz. gr. 

Water •..---- 85-0 ... 13 363 

Albumen - - - ^ - - 0*5 ... o 35 

Sugar ------- 1*8 ... o 126 

Msdic acid ------ 07 ... o 49 

Pectose and gum ----- 8*o ... i 122 

Cellulose 3*4 ... o 238 

Mineral matter o'6 ... o t^ 



I20 RHUBARB. 

Apricots (the fruit of Prunus armmiaca) closely resemble 
peaches and nectarines in composition, but generally contain 
rather more sugar. 

Rhubarb. 

( Rheum rhqponiicum,) 

Case 59. Although used as a fruit, it is scarcely necessary to 
say that rhubarb is the stalk or petiole of the leaf. The plant 
furnishing this agreeable and succulent food is a hardy perennial, 
from the Volga river, and has been grown in this country since 
1573. There are several varieties of Rheum rhqponticum in culti- 
vation, and it is possible that R, undulatum may also be amongst 
the different kinds of rhubarb in use. The rhubarb belongs to 
the Buckwheat Order (^Polygonaced), 

The agreeable taste and odour of rhubarb are not brought out 
till the leaf-stalks are cooked. But when the expressed juice of 
these is allowed to ferment, it yields, with proper treatment, a 
delicious wine. The chief nutrient in rhubarb is the sugar 
(glucose), which amounts to about 2 parts in 100 of the fresh 
stalks. Its sour taste is due to oxalic acid, or rather to the 
acid oxalate of potash ; oxalate of lime is also present There 
are some conditions of the human body (the oxalic-acid diathesis) 
in which it is probably wiser to avoid eating rhubarb and other 
plants, as sorrel, in which oxalic compounds predominate. 

The composition of the freshly-cut leaf-stalks of a red variety 
of rhubarb which had been grown in the open air, and were in 
good condition for use, is here shown : — 

Composition of Rhubarb. 

In 100 parts. In i lb. 



Water 95*1 

Albumen 0*9 

Sugar (glucose) and gum - - - 2*1 

Oxalic acid 0*3 

Cellulose I'l 

Mineral matter 0*5 

As I lb. of rhubarb contains less than i oz 



oz. gr. 

15 94 

o 63 

o 147 

O 21 

o 77 

o 35 

of solid matter, 



FIGS. 



121 



and as even of this solid matter more than one quarter is not 
nutritive, it is obvious that the food value of this vegetable is very 
small. It is, indeed, esteemed mainly for its pleasant flavour, 
which is due to a trace of some volatile matter, too small to be 
identified, along with a little grape sugar and the acidulous com- 
pound already mentioned. 

Figs and dates next* claim attention. They are imported in a 
partially dried condition, and consequently are far more nutri- 
tious, weight for weight, than any of the fresh fruits we have been 
considering. 

Figs. 
French, Ftgues, German, Feigen, Italian, Fichi, 

(Fiats carica.) 

Case 59. The Fig Order includes several important trees, such 
as the mulberry and the banyan : one kind of fig-tree {F, elasticd) 
3nelds much of the india-rubber of commerce. The sycamore fig 
{F, sycomorus) is a small fruit, common in Egypt, from another 
species. 

The edible fig is a native of the Eastern Aral, the Caucasus, 
Syria, Persia, Asia Minor, and perhaps of South-Eastern Europe 
and Northern Africa ; it has been long grown in the regions of 
the Mediterranean. The fig is cultivated in warm and sheltered 
situations in the south of England. 

Large quantities of dried and pressed figs are imported into 
England. They contain much sugar, and but little water. The 
numerous so-called seeds in the fig are indigestible, and some- 
times have an irritant action. 

Dried Turkey figs contain — 

Water 

Albumen 

Sugar (glucose). .... 

Starch 

Pectose and gum - . - - 
Fat .----- 

Cellulose 

Mineral matter .... 



zoo parts. 


In z lb. 




oz. gr. 


175 ... 


2 3SO 


6-1 


o 427 


57*5 


9 88 


3'o 


210 


5*4 ... 


378 


o'9 


63 


7-3 ... 


I 83 


2'3 


\6\ 



122 DATES, 

For I part of flesh-formers in dried figs there are quite lo 
parts of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

One pound of dried figs might produce at the most nearly 
I oz. of the dry nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 

Mulberries are the fruit of a beautiful tree {Moms nigrd) 
belonging to the Fig Order, of Western Asia, extensively grown in 
Europe, Mulberries contain more acid than most dessert fruits, 
but possess a very characteristic flavour. 

Dates. 

French, Daites, German, Datteln, Italian, Datteri, 

{Phanix dactylifera,) 

Case 59. Dates are the fruit of a palm. The tree has been 
introduced into Southern Europe, but it is a native of North 
Africa. The cultivation of the date-palm is of great antiquity. 

The fruits of this palm grow in clusters, weighing 20 lb. or 
more ; they form an important food in Egypt and Arabia. Dates 
pounded and pressed into a kind of cake are much used by the 
inhabitants of Northern Africa, and by travellers through the 
Sahara Desert. 

Dates contain more than half their weight of sugar, but there 
is a fair amount of flesh-formers present as well. 

Dates, without the stone, contain — 



Water - 
Albumen 
Sugar - 
Pectose and gum 
Fat 

Cellulose 
Mineral matter 



zoo parts. 


In 1 lb. 




oz. gr. 


20-8 


3 143 


6-6 


I 25 


54 -o 


8 280 


12*3 


I 424 


0'2 


14 


5*5 


... 385 


1-6 


112 



For I part of flesh-formers in dates there are 10 parts of heat- 
givers, reckoned as starch. 

One pound of dates might produce about i oz, of the 
nitrogenous substance of muscle 01 ^es\v. 



CAROB OR LOCUST BEANS. 123 

Bananas. 
{Musa sqpientum,') 

Csat 6a The banana is the fruit of a handsome plant, grown 
almost ever3nyhere in the tropics ; it is a most important article of 
food in many hot countries. Bananas have been cultivated in 
India and China from very remote ages. Another species or 
variety of this plant {M, paradisiacd) yields the plantain, a fruit 
almost identical witji the banana. 

The banana is a nutritious food, having less water and more 
nitrogenous matter than is commonly found in fresh fruits. It 
contains, when ripe, much sugar, but very little starch. 

The banana is a very productive plant. Its fruit grows in 
clusters of 100 to 200 ; a bunch of them will often weigh 50 lb. 
They are imported, to some extent, into this country, as a dessert 
fruit 

Fresh-peeled bananas contain — 



In xoo parts. 


In z lb. 




02. gr. 


73 '9 


II 361 


4-8 


336 


197 


.. 3 66 


06 


42 


0'2 


14 


0-8 


56 



Water 

Albumen 

Sugar and pectose - - 

Fat 

Cellulose 

Mineral matter - . - - 

For I part of flesh-formers in fresh-peeled bananas there are 
4 parts of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

One pound of bananas might produce, at the most, ^ oz. of, 
the dry nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 

Our next fruit is scarcely used at all in this country, except as 
food for cattle and horses ; but it is of interest as a legume con- 
taining much sugar. 

Carob Beans. 
{Ceratofiia siliqua,) 
Case 6a Carob beans or locust beans, called also ^^^o\i^.^sA 
^^* John's bread, are really entire pods, not laeidY \>e^.T^^ ox ^^^^^ 



124 ORANGES. 

They are the fruit of a leguminous tree, a native of South Europe 
and the Levant. 

Carob pods contain a soft pulp, rich in sugar ; they are by no 
means deficient in flesh-formers. They are used chiefly for feeding 
cattle in England, but in some of the countries bordering on the 
Mediterranean they are employed also as human food. They 
contain a small quantity of a peculiar volatile acid, known as 
butyric acid — this gives them a rather rancid smell. Carob pods 
attract moisture from the air, and are liable to become mouldy on 
keeping. 

Imported carob pods, as met with in the London market, 
contain — 

In zoo parts. lu z lb. 

oz. gr. 

Water 14*6 ... 2 147 

Albumen 7'i ... i 60 

Sugar 51*8 ... 8 126 

Pectose and gum 16 'i ... 2 252 

Fat I'l ... o 77 

Cellulose and lignose - - - - 6*4 ... i 10 

Mineral matter 2*9 ... o 203 

For I part of flesh-formers in carob pods there are 8J^ parts 
of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. One pound of carob pods 
cannot produce much over i oz. of the dry nitrogenous sub- 
stance of muscle or flesh. 

Oranges. 

French, Oranges, German, Apfelstnen, Italian, Melarancie. 

{Citrus AuranttumJ) 

Case 60. The tree which yields this delicious and wholesome^ 
fruit is a native of India, but it has been long grown in Southern- 
Europe. Many varieties exist, as the mandarin orange, with an 
easily detached and very fragrant rind ; the Malta blood orange, 
with red flesh ; and the bergamot, which yields an essential oil 
much used in perfumery. The bitter or Seville orange {Citrus 



ORANGES, ETC. 125 

BigaradicL) ; the lime (C Limetta) ; the citron (C medico) ; the 

lemon (C Limonum) ; the shaddock, pomaloe, or forbidden fruit 

(C decumana) ; and the cumquat (C.japom'ca), are all species of 

the same genus, and are all characterised by the presence of 

similar fragrant essential oils in the peel or rind, and by varying 

quantities of citric acid, citrate of potash, and sugar in their fleshy 

pulp. Besides the flavours they impart to other foods, many of 

the fruits we have named are of direct alimentary and medicinal 

value. The orange and its various products, in the form of 

orange marmalade (into which Seville oranges are generally 

introduced), orange wine, and candied orange-peel are the best 

known. This fruit is imported into England in vast quantities 

from Malta, the Mediterranean coasts, Lisbon, and the Azores — 

very fine fruit being brought from the island of St. Michael. The 

orange can, however, be enjoyed in perfection only when taken 

perfectly ripe from the tree. The imported fruits are always 

gathered in an unripe state. The orange-tree yields another 

essential oil besides that in the fruit — the oil of neroli being 

obtained from orange-flowers. The tree is evergreen, and its rich, 

green, glossy leaves, and masses of golden fruit, form a beautiful 

feature in the landscape of many parts of Italy. 

An orange of good quality should not lose more than one-fifth 
its weight by the removal of the peel. The peeled fruit contains 
about 86 per cent, of water, 8 to 10 per cent, of sugar, and small 
quantities of citric acid, citrate of potash, albumen, cellulose, &c. 
We shall have to recur to the subject of the Orange Order 
when discussing the "flavourers," in the Fourth Part of this book, 
on Food Adjuncts. 

The pomegranate {Punica Granata), the prickly pear {Opuniia 
vulgaris), the jak fruit of Ceylon {Artocarpus integrifoUd), the 
bread-fiiiit of the Moluccas and other islands (Artocarpus incisa), 
the tamarind, the mangosteen, and many other fruits, which we 
have.no space to describe, are of considerable importance in 
different parts of the world — some of these fruits forming the 



2ri» 



TTAJLJ^rrrs, 



d le 3iad£ ic ±e zm&-szzi& Enrnsam Amwmmf\ wtiA of 

Ac 



«. .iSi 










tge qnanfitics aie 
inqxxtied seen Spain r-d Islj. vosrs. xs fn Sinithcin Europe 
genexzZy. i: fociss an zzpcctxn xnSoe cc' iwxL Its meal is made 
ixuD cak£s^ cc rv nrs sze bcLJed or rais^ied. 

In ds oEIy seeds cr xins v^5d: are zmv to be desrribed, we 
have fiDod-prodsos cf Teinr giesi vaj^e. Tber mntain little or no 
stardi, bet mixn ni^rogezxKs or albciiiinoHi matter, together with, 
in mai^ cases^ 50 per cent, ot £xed oQ or ut. Tlicy are rather 
nch food, and somcvba: drnWrrT 01 dkestkxL. iznless groond into 
meal, or cooked, or mixed with %hter kinds of food. The oil in 
somenntsisTciTliaiUe to becoEoeiaDcidandmiwfaolesosne. We 
sdect for desciiptioa die wahmt, die niben, die almond, and two 



Walxuis. 
French, 3au: Gcnnan, WaDfMssc. Italian, Nbd. 

wt^ The walnut-tree is a nativie of die Himalayas, Peisia, 
die sondiem prarinces of die Cancasos^ It was introdnced 
&cece and Italy some centmies before die Christian ea 
vabmt is now grown throaghont temperate Europe. 
"Wpe wafanit fruits, when die shell is stDl soft, make an 



FILBERTS. 



127 



excellent pickle; a delicate sweetmeat is prepared by boiling 
them^ in sirup. 

Walnuts contain a sweet oil much used in Southern Europe 
for food, and, under the name of nut-oil, for painting. The marc 
of walnut-kernels, or walnut-cake, is a good cattle food. 

Wahiuts in the shell yield one-third their weight (about 36 per 
cent) of peeled kernels, which are the crumpled cotyledons, or 
seed-leaves. These when quite fresh contain — 

In zoo parts. In z lb. 





02. 


gr. 


44*5 


7 


53 


12 '5 


2 





8-9 


I 


185 


31*6 


.. 5 


24 


0-8 





56 


17 





119 



Water 

Albumen 

Mucilage, &c. 

OU 

Cellulose 

Mineral matter 

For I part of flesh-formers in walnut-kernels there are about 
65^^ parts of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

One pound of walnuts cannot produce more than 2 oz. of the 
dry nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 

Case 63. The Hazel-Nut, the Filbert, and the Cobnut 

are produced by Coryhis avellana, and the cultivated varieties of 

this native tree. The best hazel-nuts come from Spain, and are 

known as Barcelona nuts. Cobnuts and filberts are largely grown 

in Kent Fine filberts, freshly gathered and ripe, contain rather 

more than half their weight of edible kernel. This, if analysed 

before drying, just as it is taken from the shell, gives the following 

results : — 

Composition of Filbert Kernels. 



Water - 
Albumen, &c.- 
Oil - - - 
Mucilage, starch, &c. 
Cellulose 
Mineral matter 



00 parts. 


In X lb. 




oz. gr. 


48-0 


7 297 


8-4 


I 151 


28-5 


4 245 


II'I 


I 340 


2*5 


... 175 


I '5 


105 



For I part of flesh-formers there are here about 10 parts of 
heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 



1 28 GEO UND'NUTS—PISTA CHIO-NUTS. 

Cases 61 k 63. Another well-known oily nut is the Sweet Almonp, 
the produce of a small Mediterranean tree {AmygdcUtis communis)^ 
belonging to a section of the Rose Order. The so-called Jordan 
almonds come from Malaga.* The almond does not ripen pro- 
perly in this country. The brown coat of the almond kernel is 
indigestible, and should be removed by pouring boiling water 
on the kernels and peeling them. Almonds correspond in general 
character to filbert kernels, but are much drier when imported 
than when gathered. The bitter almond is produced by a mere 
variety of the same tree, but it contains a peculiar ferment called 
emulsin, which is capable of changing a nitrogenous matter, 
present in the bitter almond and the sweet, into prussic acid, the 
essential oil of bitter almonds, and glucose. This change occurs 
when bitter almond meal is mixed with water and gently wanned. 

Case 46. The Ground-Nut, or pea-nut {Arachis hypogad)^ 
though an oily seed, really belongs to the leguminous plants, and 
has been already described in the section on pulse. In addition 
to 50 per cent of oil it contains about the same amount of 
nitrogenous matter (24*5 per cent.) which usually occiU3 in 
beans and peas. 

Composition of Ground-Nuts (shelled). 

In zoo parts. 

Water 7'S — 

Casein, &c. 24*5 

Oil 50-0 

Mucilage, &c. 11*7 

Cellulose and lignose - - - - 4*5 

Mineral matter 1*8 ... 

For I part of flesh-formers in these seeds there are 5 parts 
of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

Case 63. The PiSTACHio-NuT (Pistocia vera) is the produce <^ 
a small Mediterranean tree. The fruit resembles a small almon^ 

• In Case 61 are shown fifty varieties of almonds cultivated in France. 



In 


lib. 


oz. 

I 


% 


3 


403 


8 





I 


3S2 





31S 





126 



COCO-NUTS. 129 

but has a bright green kernel, which owes its colour to chloro- 
phyll, or leaf-green. The kernels possess a taste not unlike that 
of the sweet almond ; they are much used in French confec- 
tionery. The following analysis represents the 

Cqmposition of Pistachio-Kernels. 

In zoo parts. In i lb. 

oz. gr. 

Watet 7*4 ... I 80 

Albuminoids 227 ... 3 272 

Pil 51 'I - 8 77 

Mucilage, &c i3'o ... 2 35 

Cellulose 2*5 ... o 175 

Mineral matter 3*3 ... o 231 

« 

For I part of flesh-formers in pistachio-kernels there are 
6 parts of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

One pound of Pistachio-kernels might produce at the utmost 
35^^ oz. of the dry nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 

Case 64. The Olive {Olea europaa) contains most of its oil 
outside the seed, in the green fleshy pericarp, which is sometimes 
eaten, the whole fruit being preserved in brine. 

Case 64. The Hickory-Nut is produced by a North American 
tree {Carya alba), which belongs to the yuglandacecB, It re- 
sembles a small walnut. Another species of the same genus, 
C. olivcBformis, yields a similar nut, the pecan or picary nut. 

Case 64. The nut of the Cocos nucifera, commonly called cocoa- 
nut, but which we shall here term the coco-nut (to distinguish 
it from cacao), is a very characteristic fruit, rich in oil. 

Coco-NuT. 

French, Coco, German, Cocosnuss, Italian, Cocco. 

{Cocos nudfera,) 

The lofty and most useful tree which yields the coco-nut is a 
palm, now largely cultivated in many tropical islands, and on 
^•^any tropical coasts. A single tree will bear from 80 to 100 
ftuts. 



I30 DIKA BREAD. 

The outer husk of the coco-nut affords a strong fibre called 
" coir," from which mats, brushes, and cordage are made. The 
shell of the nut is formed into bottles and drinking-cups, and 
gives, when properly burnt, a very valuable charcoal. The spirit 
called " arrack " is distilled from the fermented juice, or " toddy," 
of the flowering branch of the coco-nut palm, while the milk or 
liquid part of the kernel is, when fresh, a nourishing and pleasant 
beverage. 

The solid white kernel of the coco-nut is rich in oil, which is 
expressed and used for many purposes. The solid kernel weighs, 
when fresh, about i lb., and has the following composition : — 

Case 64. 

Water -•••-- 
Albumen, &c! - - . - 
Oil 

Sugar, &c. 

Cellulose 

Mineral matter - - . . 



zoo parts. 


In I lb. 




or. gr. 


46-6 


7 200 


5 -5 


.. 385 


35*9 


5 325 


81 


I 130 


2*9 


203 


1*0 


70 



For I part of flesh-formers in this kernel there are about 
15 parts of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

One pound of coco-nut kernel could form, at the utmost, 
about ^ oz. of the dry nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 



DiKA Bread. 
{Irvingta Barter L) 

Case 64. The food known as dika bread is made from the 
fruit of a tree belonging to the Quassia Order. This tree grows 
in profusion on the west coast of Africa, from Sierra Leone 
to the Gaboon : although not related to the mango-tree of India 
it is called the wild mango. 

The fruit from which dika bread is made is about the size of 

wan's egg. It contains a large white almond-shaped kernel. 



OILY NUTS. 131 

The bruised kernels, warmed and pressed, form the so-called dika 
bread, which is largely consumed by the natives of the Gaboon, 
who use it,, when scraped or grated, in stews. 

Dika bread contains three-fourths of its weight of a solid fat. 
Its taste is said to resemble tnat of a mixture of roasted cocoa 
and roasted flour. 

Dika bread contains — 

In zoo parts. In i lb. 



Water S*o 

Albumen - - ' - - - - 9'S 

Starch, &c. 7*2 

Fat 73'o 

Cellulose 3'o 

Mineral matter ----- 2*3 



oz. gr. 

350 

1 227 
I 66 

II 29$ 

o 210 

o 161 



For I part of flesh-formers in dika bread there are 18 parts of 
lieat-givers, reckoned as starch ; but it must be remembered that 
100 parts of this food contain heat-givers equal to at least 170 
parts of starch. 

One pound of dika bread might produce 1% oz, of the 6xy 
nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 

Cases 61 and 6a. The uamcs^of a few other nuts remarkable for their 
xichness in oil are given below : — 

Brazil-nuts, seeds of Bertholldia eouelsa, 

Sapucaia-nuts, seeds of Lecythis zabucaijo^ and other species. 

Double Coco-nuts, Loidicea seychdlarum. 

Palm-nut, Elais gutnensis. 

Candle-nut, seeds of Aleurites triloba. 



YL -i 



133 MILK AND DAIRY PRODUCE. 



PART III -ANIMAL FOODS. 



In the various parts of animals, and in the products of animal 
origin which are used as food for man, there are present many 
kinds of nutrients identical, or practically identical, with those 
found in vegetables. In both kingdoms albuminoids, oil or 
fat, and phosphates and potash salts abound. But, on the 
other hand, neither starch nor cellulose occurs in animal foods, 
while sugar is generally absent, or else exists in mere traces, 
with the solitary exception of milk. Yet there are some sub- 
stances which are distinctive of animal tissues, not occurring at 
all in plants. Such are the ossein of bones, the cartilagin of 
cartilages, and the similar nitrogenous compounds of connective 
tissue and skin. Add to these the haemoglobin of the blood, 
and some of the rarer and less thoroughly understood con- 
stituents of the brain and bile, and we have the chief distinctive 
compounds of animal structures. It will be seen further on 
that animal foods are usually richer in nitrogenous matters and. 
in fat than vegetable foods; and also, that on the average, they^ 
contain a smaller percentage of water, when the comparison if 
made with materials in the fresh state. 

§ I. — Milk and Dairy Produce. 

As the natural food of the young of the mammalia, it i: 
found that milk may be regarded as a model food. It furflishe 



MILK, 133 

all the nutrients required by the growing immature animal; and 
it furnishes these nutrients in due proportion. 

Cows' milk is nearly opaque under ordinary conditions of 
light ; it has a faint tinge of straw-yellow, which becomes 
more marked when the animal has abundance of green food. 
Milk has a soft, slightly sweet taste, it has also a faint animal 
odour when warm and fresh. When milk is allowed to stand 
some time the first change which occurs is the rising of the cream, 
owing to the lower specific gravity of the globules of milk-fat, 
which at first are scattered uniformly through the milk. These 
minute globules — easily seen under the microscope — are the 
main cause of the white opacity of milk; but there are also 
many still more minute globules of casein, the chief nitrogenous 
nutrient of milk. The amount of cream which rises depends 
upon many conditions. The first of these is the richness of 
the milk in the milk-fat ; other conditions are : temperature — a 
low temperature being favourable to the separation of the cream 
— ^a considerable bulk of liquid, a wide vessel, and complete 
fireedgm firom agitation, are also favourable conditions. The 
chief losses which milk suffers when skimmed are the removal 
of most of the fat, and about one-sixth of the cisein. 

The next change which milk suffers on keeping is that of 

turning sour. This occurs specially in hot weather, and first 

affects milk which has not been kept in clean vessels and in pure 

air. The souring of milk, however brought about, is marked by 

the presence of an acid — lactic cu:id, which is formed from the 

peculiar sugar of milk known as Ictctose. It may be retarded by 

the addition of a little carbonate of soda, or, as has been recently 

•discovered, by a small quantity of boracic acid. As casein is 

separated from solutions by lactic acid, as well as by nearly all 

otter acids, milk which has turned ceases to be of uniform 

appearance and opacity. Curds separate — these curds consist- 

'^S of casein, but entangling also, as the substance becomes 

isoluble^ much of the milk-fat and of t\ie p\vo^^>MX^^. 'Wa^ 



134 COIVS' MILK. 

separation of curds is aided by heat. The liquor in which they 
float — ^the serum of milk, or whey — contains about one-fourth of 
the nitrogenous matter of the milk, all its sugar, and some of its 
mineral matter. 

Case (is- The chief constituents of milk — ^whether cows' milk, 
human milk, goats' milk, asses' milk, or the secretion of other 
mammals — are casein, lactose, or sugar of milk, milk-fat, and 
phosphates. The nature and variations in composition of cows' 
milk are the most important part of the chemical study of this 
subject. Cows' milk, from a herd of healthy animals properly 
fed, presents a remarkable uniformity of composition. But the 
total amount of nutrients in it will vary within certain rather 
narrow limits with the following circumstances^ Morning milk 
will often be poorer in total solids than evening milk; much 
watery food, as brewers' grains, &c, will impoverish the milk; a 
small daily supply of oil-cake will add about i per cent to the 
total solids of milk; milk from cows pastured upon poor and 
overstocked land will be poor in quality and reduced in quantity y 
milk drawn last from the udder — the "strippings" — will be 
richest, especially in cream, and consequently in milk-fat 01^ 
butter. The following may be taken as the average compositioi^- 
of cows' milk : — 



In xoo parts. 




In z pint, 
oz. gr. 

17 330 


4*1 




370 


37 




333 


51 




I 22 


0-8 




72 



Water 

Casein and other albuminoids 
Milk-fat - - - - 
Lactose, or milk-sugar - 
Mineral matter - - - 



Thus the total solids of milk amount to 137 per cent. ; th^- 
solids, other than fat, being 10 per cent. It is very rare to find 
genuine and healthy milk showing a percentage lower than 9 0^ 
solids not fat, but some instances have been recorded wher^^ 
these constituents were found to be as low as 8J4^ per cent ^ 
but in these cases the food of the cows must have been deficien'* 
in solid nutrients, or very walety. 'I^v^ x^.\!\o ol ^^'^-IwxsiKr''^ 



ASSES' MILK, ETC. 135 

to heat-givers, reckoned as starch, in average cows' milk is as 
I to 3^. 

One pint of cows' milk weighs about i lb. 4^ oz. : if one 
pound of milk be digested and oxidized in the body, it is 
capable of yielding a force equal to 390 tons raised i ft. 
high. The greatest amount of external work which it could 
enable a man to perform is 78 tons raised i ft. high. One 
pound of milk can produce at the most about yi^ oz. of the 
dry nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 

So far cows' milk only has been considered. Now we may 
introduce the milk of other animals, comparing the composition 
of the most important kinds. 

Case 65. Human Milk. — The milk of woman is less rich in 
solids generally, and in milk-fat and casein specially, than cows' 
milk. The latter requires the addition to each pint of about 
10 oz. of warm water, and of about ij^ oz. of sugar (pre- 
ferably milk-sugar), in order that it may approach human milk 
in composition. The following figures show the average 
composition of human milk : — 



Water 

Casein and other albuminoids 
Milk-fat - - - . 
Lactose, or milk-sugar - 
Mineral matter . . . 



In zoo parts. 


In X pint. 




oz. gr. 


89-0 


18 146 


1-6 


144 


2*3 


207 


6-9 ... 


I 184 


0*2 


18 



The average specific gravity of human milk is 1031. The ratio 

of flesh-formers to heat-givers, reckoned as starch, is as i to 7. 

Asses' milky goat^ milk, &c. — The average composition of 

the milk of several other animals is shown in the following 

table : — 

Constituents of Milks (in 100 parts). 

Sheep. Pig. 

... 83-8 ... 84-8 

5*8 ... 4*3 

4*8 ... ^o 
o-% ... o**^ 



Ass. 




Mare. 


Goat. 


Water - - 887 


• • • 


89-8 . 


.. 86-4 


Casein, &c - 2*4 


• • • 


2*1 


.. 4-8 


Milk-fat . - 1*5 


• • • 


1-6 . 


4-2 


Milk-su^r - yi 


• • • 


6-1 . 


4-1 


Mineral matter O'j 


• • • 


0-4 . 


OS 



136 CREAM. 

In Sweden, Norway, and Denmark sheep's milk is used ; in 
Switzerland, much goats' milk ; in Tartary, mares' milk ; camels' 
milk amongst the Arabs, and reindeer's milk in Lapland. In 
many of these countries milk, from one source or another, forms 
a very important part of the food, not only of children, but of 
adults, and a much greater quantity is consumed than is the case 
with the labouring classes in the British Isles. There are many 
parts of the rural districts of England where milk is seldom seen, 
not being used generally even with tea. It is consumed more 
extensively in Ireland than in England, in proportion to the 
population. 

In Tartary, mares' milk is allowed to ferment, whereby 
alcohol and carbonic acid gas are formed from some of the sugar 
present; the casein separates at the same time in curds. Such 
fermented milk is called koumiss, and is found to be a wholesome 
and generally nutritious food. It is said to possess even some 
special value in consumption. An imitation of it is prepared in 
London from sweetened cows' milk. 



Cream. 

The cream which rises from cows' milk when the liquid i^ 
cooled and at rest, is not constant in amount or composition^ 
If water be added to milk the cream rises more quickly, bo-'^ 
is not increased in absolute amount The cream usually 
measures 12 per cent., pr ranges within 10 and 15 in averag"^ 

Case 65. samples of milk — the milk being placed in tuber - 
half-an-inch in diameter, where it remains twenty hours befor^ 
the degrees occupied by the cream are read off. Some notion 
of the average composition of cream may be gathered fron^ 
the following analysis, but the range of variatiou is great:^ 
the water alone varying between 45 and 65, 



CONDENSED MILK. 137 

Constituents of Cream. 

In zoo parts. 

Water 55-0 

Casein 6'o 

Milk-fat 36-3 

Milk-sugar 2*5 

Mineral matter 0*2 

Skim Milk. 

When the cream which has risen on milk is removed, the 
liquid which remains is poorer in milk-fat and in total solids, but 
its percentage of milk-sugar is increased. It is a light and 
digestible food, but the ratio between its flesh-forming and heat- 
giving nutrients is different from that of fresh milk, the heat-givers 
being much lower. Its composition will vary much according to 
the extent to which the cream has risen and been removed. The 
following is an analysis of skim milk : — 



Composition of Skim Milk. 

In zoo parts. 

Water - 89*0 

Casein - - 4*3 

Milk-fat o*4 

Milk-sugar 5*5 

Mineral matter 0*8 



Preserved and Condensed Milk. 

Case 65. Although there are several ways of treating milk so 
that it may be preserved sweet and wholesome for some time, 
or reproduced for use very easily and simply, yet there is but one 
preparation of this kind which is extensively used. This is called 
condensed milk ; but in reality the milk has not only been con- 
densed by the removal of a large proportion of its original water, 
but it has received a considerable addition of cane-sugar, to pre- 
serve it Thus it happens that this condensed imVVL, 01 Y^^'sfcXN^^ 



138 ADULTERATION OF MILK. 

milk, cannot take the place of milk as a model food, the proportion 
of heat-givers to flesh-formers being too high. Preserved milk is 
generally prepared by evaporating milk, after the addition of cane- 
sugar, till it acquires a thick consistence. The pale straw-coloured 
sirup is poured into tins, which are then closed from the air by 
soldering. During evaporation some of the fatty matter is dissi- 
pated along with the vapour of water. The milk presents these 
results on analysis : — 

Composition of Preserved Milk. 

In zoo parts. 

Water 24*0 

Casein I5'2 

Milk-fat 11*5 

Milk-sugar 177 

Cane-sugar 27*6 

Mineral matter 2'0 

For I part of flesh-formers in this preserved milk there are 6 
parts of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

Adulteration of Milk. 

Case 66. The removal of cream and the addition of water 
are the only ways in which milk is commonly impoverished. 
The removal of cream shows itself in the thinner and less opaque • 
appearance of the milk ; the addition of water produces the same 
effect. As milk-fat, the chief part of cream, is lighter than water, 
its partial removal from the milk makes the specific gravity of the 
remaining milk greater : by the subsequent addition of water the 
specific gravity may be lowered down to that of the original milL 
Thus it is clear that the specific gravity of milk, taken alone, is 
valueless as a test of its quality. The indications of the " gravity 
lactometer" should be combined with the use of a set of gra- 
duated tubes in which to ascertain the number of measures of 
cream which rise from 100 measures of milk in 24 hours. And 
it is also advisable to ascertain the opacity of the sample by 
means of the lactoscope. Chemical analysis, of course, affords a 



BUTTER. 139 

more complete proof of the sophistication of milk. The total 
solids, and also the solids not fat, should be ascertained. A 
hundred grains of milk should leave, when carefully dried up, 
from 12 to 14 grains of solid substance, including milk-fat, casein, 
milk-sugar, salts, &c. ; and the solids other than fat ougfit to 
amoimt to 9 or 10 grains. 

It has been argued that the removal of cream from, and the 
addition of water to milk, are not adulterations injurious to health* 
As, however, these operations lower the feeding value of the milk 
considerably, and also seriously alter the relation between the 
heat-givers and flesh-formers of this model food, the above posi- 
tion cannot be maintained. It must also be borne in mind that 
there are many children whose daily allowance of milk, supposing 
it to be of good quality, barely suffices to sustain life : when this 
milk has been lowered by one-fourth or one-third of its original 
feeding value, it is not difficult to foretell the results. 

The statements that chalk, brains, gypsum, &c., are used to 
thicken milk are almost entirely devoid of foundation. 

Milk has sometimes been the means of spreading disease, 
either through its direct contamination with the specific poison 
of disease during the milking of the cows, or by means of the 
water used in rinsing the vessels employed, or in diluting the 
milk. The milk itself is sometimes unwholesome from the 
outset, owing to the imhealthy condition of the cow. 

« Butter. 

French, Beurre, German, Butter. Italian, Burro. 
Although butter consists chiefly of milk-fat, yet it contains by 
no means inconsiderable quantities of the other constituents of 
milk. It may be obtained from cream most readily, but also by 
the direct churning of milk. Butter made from sweet cream has 
a more pleasant taste and keeps good longer than that made from 
som: cream : this difference is caused mainly by the presence o£ 
much casein or curd in the butter from sour cream. 



I40 BUTTER. 

Much butter is now made in factories, in the United States of 
America, in Sweden, and elsewhere. By scrupulous attention to 
the purity and healthiness of the milk received, to the absolute 
cleanliness of the vessels used, and to the temperature and other 
conditions essential for a successful result, an excellent quality of 
butter is uniformly produced. The exact temperature, both in 
the rising of the cream and during the churning process, is 
always maintained ; ice and currents of warm water being used 
as required. The taint, or unpleasant and peculiar taste which 
so much butter possesses, can be avoided when all necessary 
precautions are taken to prevent the access of any kind of 
odorous vapours to the milk or cream. Nothing is so strongly 
absorptive of odours or volatile flavours as butter. It absorbs 
and retains the vapours from cheese, from meat, and especially 
from every kind of decaying vegetable or animal matter. If 
improper or strongly-flavoured food has been given to the cows, 
it is in the butter made from the milk that the taste of that food 
will be most clearly perceived. 

The best temperature for churning lies between 57** and 61' 
Fah. : 60^ is a fair degree of heat. Sometimes cream is heated 
to a much higher temperature first — say 180° Fah. — and then 
cooled down to 60° Fah. before being churned. Butter thus 
made keeps well. It is generally considered that i lb. of butter 
can be made from 23 pints of milk. 

Butter always has some salt added to it : this salt must be 
quite pure. If it be not free from magnesium compounds, it will 
give a bitter taste to the butter. Even fresh butter has some salt 
in it — from J^ to 2 parts in the 100. Salt butter ought not i^ 
contain as much as 8 per cent, but more has been found in 
inferior samples. If butter is to be kept some time or exported, 
it receives, besides salt (2 to 5 per cent.), a small addition of 
sugar — not, however, more than 8 oz. to the hundredweight. 

The purity and goodness of butter can be ascertained by 
means of the microscope, chemical axval^^As, aicid certain special 



BUTTER. 141 

ests of melting points and specific gravity. But these tests 
:annot be applied except by experienced analysts. Still it is easy 
;o learn a good deal about some of the adulterations practised on 
butter, by simply melting a portion of it in a glass tube plunged in 
hot water. After a time the water, the curd or casein, and the 
true butter or milk-fat, separate into layers. The water remains 
lowest : on its surface, and mingled with a portion of the melted 
fiit, lies the curd j while the remainder of the fat constitutes a 
layer resembling oil, and remaining at the top. Now, as there 
should not be more than 8 to 13 per cent, of water in good 
butter, the watery layer should not exceed in volume one-eighth 
of the whole butter. Nor should the casein, or curd, be very 
conspicuous. Water has, however, been found to the extent of 
30 per cent, or more in some samples of butter, while salt often 
occurs also in great excess. Unfortunately, also, imitations of 
butter are now made on a large scale, and may be used to 
adulterate butter without being easily recognised. If they are 
sold imder the names of " butterine " and " oleo-margarine," pur- 
chasers know that they are not buying butter, though they may 
be purchasing a wholesome and cheap substitute for it. But 
these purified fats (bone-fat, horse-fat, &c.) are sometimes imported 
into England as Brittany or Normandy butter, and are also used 
for the fraudulent spphistication of genuine butter. The flavour 
of the true product is given to them by working them up with 
butter-milk, and it is difficult to recognise their origin. 

Case 67. We cannot give an exact analysis of firesh butter which 
shall fully represent its components ; but we may take the follow- 
ing figures as showing the average proportions of its most 
xnportant constituents when of good quality : — 



Water - 
Casein - 
Milk-fat - 
Milk-sugar 
Common salt 



In xoo parts. 


In I lb. 


lO'O 


02. gr. 
I 262 


IX) 


70 


877 ... 


14 14 


o*3 


21 


1*0 


10 



ii42 CHEESE. 

It is scarcely necessary to say that butter contains too small a 
quantity of flesh-forming material for it to be reckoned in com- 
parison with its high amount of heat-giving substance. If we 
change the latter into the corresponding amount of starch, it will 
be found that i lb. of butter corresponds to a'/xo lb. of starch. 

French, Fromage. German, Kdse, Italian, Formaggio. 

The manufacture of cheese depends upon the peculiar pro- 
perty possessed by casein of being curdled by acids. On the 
addition of an acid to milk, the casein present, which constitutes 
three-fourths of the nitrogenous matter present, is separated from 
the liquid, which is straightway resolved into a mixture of irregular 
masses of separated casein, in which most of the globules of 
milk-fat are entangled, with a slightly cloudy liquid called 
whey^ which holds the milk-sugar in solution, as well as some 
nitrogenous matter in the form of albumen and lacto-protein. 
This separation of milk into curds and whey is the first step in the 
preparation of cheese. It is usually made to occur, not through ] 
the use of an ordinary acid, but by means of rennet Rennet is 
prepared from the fourth stomach of the calf, by first cleansing 
the stomach and the curd contained therein, and then leaving 
some brine in contact with its lining membrane for a few days. 
The salt liquid will thus acquire very active properties, so that a 
small quantity will curdle a large bulk of milk. Before adding the 
rennet, the milk is warmed to a temperature which varies accord- 
ing to the quality of cheese to be made. Generally, however, in 
cheese factories, where the regulations as to temperature are 
carefully carried out, the milk is heated to 84^ Fah., then the 
rennet is added, and after the curd has been once cut, the heat is 
raised to 98** j at this stage the complete souring of the mass 
takes place. The subsequent treatment of the curd, and the 
pressing and ripening of the shaped cheeses, cannot be described 



CHEESE. 



143 



here. In the cheese factories which are so numerous in the 
United States, and which are being established in England also, 
the whole process of cheese manufacture is carried out very 
quickly and uniformly. In this country factory cheese is of 
more uniformly good quality, and fetches a higher price, than the 
produce of the ordinary dairies of the several districts in which 
both kinds of cheese are made and can be compared. Some idea 
of the quantity of cheese made in factories in the United States 
may be gathered from the statement that the exports of this 
cheese from New York amounted in 1874 to nearly 97,000,000 lb., 
most of this coming to England. There are no less than 500 
cheese factories in the State of New York, 
There are three chief kinds of cheese : 

Whole-milk cheese, 
Skim-milk cheese, 
Cream cheese, 

but these sorts pass by insensible gradations from one to the 
other. So-called whole-milk cheeses are often produced in dairies 
where some small quantity of butter is also made, and where 
some cream is abstracted from the the milk. If evening milk 
be skimmed, and then mixed with the morning milk, half-skim 
cheese will be the product. The skimming of milk, too, may be 
carried out so completely as to leave very little milk-fat for the 
cheese, or else it may be done so imperfectly as to affect very 
slightly the richness of the product Cream cheese, also, is very 
variable in composition, according to the quantity of cream which 
is added to the milk used for its production. Neufchitel and 
some other soft kinds of cream cheese are very riclj in milk-fat. 
Stilton cheese contains a smaller proportion of this constituent, 
but still is much richer than Cheddar cheese, which generally 
represents the average composition of a whole-milk cheese made 
from rich milk. Cheshire, and single and double Gloucester 
cheese show a slight reduction in the propoxtioti oi \)[i€\x xo^-Sax. 



144 CHEESE. 

American cheese is generally lower still in its proportion of this 
ingredient, while Dutch cheese is a good illustration of a true 
skim-milk cheese. It may be stated generally that cream cheese 
contains less water and casein and more fat than whole-milk ot 
skim-milk cheese ; that whole-milk cheeses are made up of about 
equal proportions of milk-fat, casein, and water ; and that skim- 
milk cheeses contain less fat but more water than either of the 
other sorts. But it must be recollected that these observations 
apply to those cheeses which are eaten in a ripened and 
hardened condition ; for in many newly-made cream cheeses the 
water may amount to ^/^ths or more of the whole weight of the 
cheese. 

Case 67. The chief constituents of a fair sample of double 
Gloucester cheese are shown in the following analysis : — 

In zoo parts. In z lb. 

oz. gr. 

Water 34-3 ... 5 214 

Casein 29*2 ... 4 294 

Milk-fat 29*6 ... 4 322 

Milk-sugar 2*0 ... o 140 

Phosphates 3*1 ... o 217 

Common salt I '8 ... o 126 

For I part of flesh-formers in the above kind of cheese there 
are little more than 2 J^ parts of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 

One pound of this cheese could form nearly 5 oz. of the 
dry nitrogenous substance of muscle or flesh. 

Cheese is naturally of a pale yellow or straw colour. The 
darker yellow and orange hues which it often shows are due to 
the colouring matter known as Amatto or Annatto. This dye 
is obtained from the pulp in which the seeds of Bixa Oreliana, 
a small South American tree, are embedded. Amatto is too 
often adulterated, sometimes with injurious substances. It is 
introduced into the heated milk, before the addition of rennet, 
in making cheese. Butter also is often coloured by it ; and it 
1ms been found in milk and cream. It is to be regretted that 



CHEESE. 145 

popular prejudice still demands a high colour in cheese, as the 
entire abandonment of the use of annatto is very desirable ; its 
employment introduces impurities into the cheese, and does not 
improve the flavour in any way. 

The digestibility of cheese varies with its texture, its age, 
and its composition. Generally speaking, it cannot be said to 
bo easily attacked by the gastric and intestinal secretions. But 
a moist, crumbly cheese, fairly rich in fat, is more rapidly and 
completely digested than the drier and more nitrogenous skim- 
milk kinds. By various modes of preparation, such as grating 
and admixture with starchy matters, cheese may be made more 
useful and available for food. It should be eaten along with 
bread, rice, or other kinds of food rich in heat-giving nutrients, in 
which cheese is deficient It requires some time before persons 
unaccustomed to eat cheese as a substantive article of the daily 
diet can derive full advantage from its nutritive properties. The 
presence of much bone-forming material in cheese is worthy of 
remark. 

Some kinds of cheese, especially those which contain most 
milk-fat, and are not of a very close texture, acquire a strong 
odour and flavour by keeping. Both the casein and the milk-fat 
are then partly decomposed, the former yielding ammonia and 
ammonium sulphide, and the latter giving rise to butyric, caproic, 
and other acids. The blue mould, or mildew, which makes its 
appearance in old and very ripe cheeses, such as Stilton, is a 
v^etable fungoid growth. Cheeses are also liable to the attacks 
of minute animals. The common cheese-mite is Acarus domesticus\ 
the cheese-fly, Piophilus casei^ deposits its eggs in the cheese, 
where they reach the larval stage, becoming the cheese-maggots 
known as " jumpers." It is scarcely necessary to state that all 
these forms of animal and .vegetable existence cause a con- 
siderable consumption of the food-substance of the cheese on 
which they live, lowering its nutritive value. Usually, however, 
the decayed cheeses to which these remarks ap^\^ ai^ cotss^xsn^^ 



146 EGGS. 

in small quantities as food-adjuncts merely, on account of their 
rich flavour, or supposed power of aiding in the digestion of 
other articles of food* 

§ 2. — Eggs. ' 

French, (Eufs, German, Eier. Italian, Uova, 
Eggs of course contain all the necessary constituents of food. 
Those of different kinds of birds, especially of the common hen,' 
are largely consumed by man. 

A bird's ^gg consists of several parts, which may be briefly 
comprised under the three terms of shell, white, and yolk. The 
shell consists mainly of earthy or mineral matter ; when free from 
moisture it contains in loo parts about 91 parts of carbonate of 
lime, 6 of phosphate of lime, and 3 of nitrogenous organic matter. 
Inside the shell there is a delicate membrane, which forms a kind 
of sac for the white of the egg. This part consists of a thick, 
ropy liquid, nearly transparent, and of a very pale straw tint, or 
almost colourless, when fresh, but becoming quite white, opaque, 
and nearly solid when sufficiently heated. These changes are 
due to the coagulation of the substance called albumen, which is 
contained in a soluble state in the unchanged white of the egg, 
but becomes insoluble on being boiled. The dissolved albumen 
occurs in large, thin, membranous cells in the white. Within the 
white lies the yolk, enclosed in a thin membrane, and tethered by 
two cords {chalazce) to the membranes of the white. The yolk is 
yellow, and nearly opaque. 

Case 68. In a vcry large hen's tgg, weighing 1,000 grains (rather 
over 2]^ oz.), the shell and membranes will weigh about 100 gr., 
the white about 610 gr., and the yolk about 290 gr. The 
average weight of a hen's egg, shell and contents, is about ij^ oz. 
It becomes rather lighter by being boiled, losing a little water. 

* Some specimens of diflferent kinds of cheese, &c., will be found to 
Case 67, 



JSGGS. i^y 

The white of a hen's egg has about the following composition :— 

--. In zoo parts. 

Water 84-8 

Albumen 12*0 

Fat, sugar, extractives^ and membranes - - - - 2*0 

Mineral matter i*2 

The yolk of a hen's egg shows a much greater degree of 
richness than the white. It contains — 

In 100 parts. 

Water 51-5 

Casein and albumen jr. . 1^*0 

Oil and faX -.-. 30*0 

Pigment, extractives, &c. 2*1 

Mineral matter *.. 1*4 

The mineral matter of the contents of hens' eggs, though 
small in quantity, is rich in quality, consisting, as it does, mainly 
of phosphates of lime, potash, soda, magnesia, and iron. 

The mixed whites and yplks of hens' eggs (the shells being 
excluded) contain — 

In zoo parts. In z lb. 

oz. gr. 



Water 717 

Albumen and casein - - - - 14*0 

Oil and fat 11*0 

Membranes and extractives - - - 2*0 

Mineral matter I *3 



II 207 

2 105 

I 332 

o 140 

o 91 



Eggs are very nutritious articles of food. They contain about 
as much flesh-forming and heat-giving substances as an equal 
weight of butchers' meat. For i part of flesh-formers present in 
them there are nearly 2 parts of heat-givers, reckoned as starch. 
One poimd of the mixed yolks and whites can produce at the 
most a little more than 2 oz. of the dry nitrogenous substance 
of muscle or flesh. 

One pound of hard-boiled eggs, if completely oxidized, could 
set free a force equal to 1,415 tons raised i ft high. The greatest 
amount of work outside the body which it could enable a maxv 1^ 



148 BUTCHERS MEAT. 

perform is 283 tons raised i ft. high. The remainder of the 
stored-up force in this amount of food will be in part unexpended, 
but much of it will be used in keeping up the heat and internal 
activity of the body, and in the repair of its tissues. 

One pound of white of egg can set free force equal to no more 
than 357 tons raised i ft. high, and can enable a man to perform 
external work equal to only 71 tons raised i ft. high, whilst i lb. 
of yolk of ^gg can set free force equal to 2,051 tons raised 
I ft. high, and could enable a man to perform external work 
equal to the raising of 410 tons i ft. high. 

The number of eggs imported into Great Britain is enormous. 
During the first quarter of 1876 it was something like 17 j( 
millions. It has been calculated that 18 eggs would contain an 
amount of flesh-forming substance and of other nutrients suffi- 
cient for the various needs of life in an adult man for one day. 
It would be necessary, in order to provide the same amount of 
albumen from such a fruit as the pear to consume no less than 
70 lb. It would be difficult to find a more striking illustration 
than this of the concentrated character, so far as nitrogenous or 
flesh-forming substance is concerned, of the tg^. 



§ 3. — Butchers' Meat. 

The variations in composition between different joints from 
the same animal are considerable. Add to this the fact that 
there are numerous additional differences, due to peculiarities 
of individual animals, to race, to age, and to the modes and 
materials of feeding, and we shall find it easy to account for 
the great discrepancies between different analyses of the same 
kind of meat The variations in the amount of fai are the 
most conspicuous, and influence, of course, the proportions of 
other meat-components greatly. A piece of meat may con- 



butchers: meat, 149 

tain but 5 per cent of fat, when it will be found to possess 
70 per cent, or perhaps 75 per cent, of water. But should 
50 per cent, of fat be present (a fat mutton or pork chop may 
contain more) then the water may not be higher than 38 — the 
rule being, the more fat the less water. If, then, nitrogenous 
or flesh-forming material be wanted, the leanest meat will furnish 
this, along with a considerably greater proportion of saline or 
mineral naatter than is found in fat meat. Where heat-givers and 
force-producers are in demand, as in cold countries, and during 
fairly hard work, then the fatter meats and bacon are at once 
more suitable and more economical. 

There are some signs by which the good quality of butchers' 
meat may be generally judged. Amongst these, in the case of 
mutton and beef, we may name a rich, bright, and uniform 
colour, and a firmness of texture, quite free from flabbiness, 
though moderately soft and elastic. Damp and clammy meat? 
with a tendency to exude moisture is generally unwholesome. 
Very young meat, from animals forced to a large size in a very 
short time, is neither agreeable in taste, nor easily digested. 
The rapid rearing and fattening of animals, though profitable to 
the farmer, produces a poor and inferior quality of meat. The 
flesh, or true muscular fibre, is not properly developed, while the 
connective and other gelatinous tissues are present in super- 
abundant proportion. 

Meat is tender, if properly cooked, before the rigor mortis 
has set in, but it must be kept some days after that rigidity of 
the muscles has occurred if it be required to possess this 
valuable quality. Still, it is better for meat to be somewhat tough 
rather than unwholesome owing to the commencement of putre- 
faction, which so readily occurs in hot weather. 

A word should be said here concerning measly and braxy 
meat* The former condition, when well marked, is easily 

* For a model of a piece of measly pork, see Case 71. 



150 BUTCHERS' MEAT. 

detected by the eye. It is caused by the presence of paiaaitic 
animals — species of Trichina and Cysticercus. It is believed that 
these embryonic forms of animals, in part belonging to the genus 
Tcenia (tapeworms, &c.), are destroyed by the heat of boiling or 
roasting meat C^e should be taken to avoid imperfectly 
cooked pork, or ham, or sausages ; as well as any vegetables, as 
salad plants, which have not been thoroughly washed. Flesh- 
meat which is measly is also peculiarly liable to decomposition, 
and becomes objectionable on that score. The same may be 
said of braxy meat — the flesh of unhealthy or diseased animals 
which have been slaughtered in order to anticipate their imminent 
death, and the consequent total loss of their flesh as human food. 
Moreover, braxy meat may contain the specific poisons of various 
diseases, as well as the medicinal agents administered to the sick 
animaL 

The various processes of cooking meat influence its com- 
position and digestibility differently. Roasting before an open 
fire is far preferable to baking. If meat be boiled, it should be 
plunged in boiling water for a few minutes, and then such an 
amount of cold water added as will sufiice to lower the heat of 
the water to about 170^ Fah., which temperature should not be 
much exceeded during the whole time of cooking. Meat loses 
considerably both in digestibility and flavour when twice cooked. 
Salt meat is less nutritious and wholesome than fresh, except 
in the case of bacon and ham. The liquor in which mutton has 
been boiled contains valuable mineral and organic matters which 
ought not to be wasted. The liquor in which salted beef has 
been boiled is not available for food, except to a small extent, 
owing to the immense quantity of common salt which it contains. 
This salt in excess has an indirect injurious action on the human 
system, as explained on p. 24. The chemistry of those changes 
which occur during the processes of cooking cannot be dwelt upon 
here. But those changes are mainly the following : the removal of 
much water in the form of vapoui and as ^acvy^lVv^laAtet containing 



MUTTOiSr. 151 

<3ie soluble (wganic and inorganic matters of the joint. Much 
gelatin, too, is found in the gravy, this substance being produced 
from those tissues of the meat which are not true muscular fibre, 
and which are rendered soluble by a moist heat. Much fat is 
melted out of the adipose tissue, and certain slightly carbonised 
matters, or dark-coloured substances, are formed out of the 
carbonaceous and nitrogenous constituents of the meat. To 
these dark-coloured materials, which are but little understood, 
the aroma, or flavour and odour, of a roasted joint are greatly 
due. They may be compared to the similar products found in 
the crust of bread, and in baked pastry and puddings. The 
general tendency of the process of roasting meat is to render it 
more soluble, digestible, and nutritious. 

We now come to the question of the composition of the 
differeat kinds of meat in general use as food. Our information 
on this subject being still imperfect, it will probably be best to 
give somewhat minute details about a single kind of butchers' 
meat which we have lately submitted to special examination, and 
then to present a more general view of the composition of the 
other kinds of flesh-meat. 

Case 69. A mutton-chop shall be the subject of our illustration. 
It contained, when quite fresh, a proportion of bone amounting to 
3 per cent — perhaps a rather lower proportion than usual. 
When submitted to careful analysis, it gave the following results 
when the flesh and fisit were taken together in the fresh state for 
analysis : — 



Water - - ^ 
Albumen 

Fibrin (true muscle) 
Ossein-like substances 
Fat - - . 
Oiiganic extractives « 
Mineral matters 
Other substances - 



In xoo parts. 




In I lb. 
oz. gr. 


44*1 




7 24 


17 




119 


5*9 




413 


1*2 




84 


42*0 




6 315 


1-8 




126 


i*o 




70 


2'3 




161 



JS2 



MUTTON. 



The bone of this mutton-chop was analysed, and gave the 
following results : — 



Water - 

Ossein ... 
Fat ... 

Phosphate of lime - 
Carbonate of lime, &c. 



In zoo parts. 


Inxlb. 


^^'^ 


r &• 


187 


2 434 


90 


1 193 


34*1 


5 200 


6-0 


420 



A recently-published analysis of a mutton-chop described as 
"lean" showed very different results to those we have given 
above. "The more lean, the more water;" and consequently 
the number representing the percentage of water was 75*5 ; the 
fat was set down as 8*6 ; the albuminoids as 10*5 ; the ossein-like 
substances as 1*9 ; and the mineral matter as 3*5. 

To show the influence of cooking upon a mutton-chop, we 
may cite two analyses, in one of which {a) the gravy and dripping 
were carefully preserved and analysed with the lean cooked meat 
of the chop ; while in the other case (p) they were excluded : 

In zoo parts. 

a h 

Water , - - 54*0 ... 51*6 

Nitrogenous matter 27*6 ... 36*6 

Fat 15-4 ... 9'4 

Mineral matter 3"0 ... i'2 

Other substances — ... 1*2 

The useful lessons to be drawn from the above analyses will 
be best studied by a reference to the composition and properties 
of the several nutrients, as described in the First Part of the 
present Handbook ; it would require too much space to enlarge 
upon these matters here. 
Cases 69 & 70. Before giving some analyses of other kinds of meat, 
it would be well to remind our readers of what was said on p. 148 
about the great variation in composition which different animals 
and parts of animals present Thus, the following figures must not 



MEAT AS A FORCE'PRODUCER. 



153 



be looked upon as representing a series of standards. They have 
been drawn up from the numerous analyses* (of the carcasses of 
various animals) which have been carried out by Messrs. Lawes 
and Gilbert. We quote them from the former " Inventory of 
the Food Collection." 

The Composition of i lb. of 



Beef. 


Mutton. 


Pork. 


Veal. 


LamK 


oz. gr. 


oz. gr. 


or. gr. 


02. gr. 


oe. gr. 


Water - - 8 


... 7 16 


... 6 69 . 


.. 10 .. 


. 8 44 


Albuminoids - i 122 


... 0385 


... 315 . 


.. I 199 .. 


. 360 


Ossein-like substances i 62 


... I 52 


... 385 . 


.. I 82 .. 


. 400 


Fat - - . 4 340 


... 6 176 


... 8 . 


.. 2 281 .. 


. 5 263 


Mineral matter • 350 


... 24s 


... 105 . 


.. 312 .. 


. 244 



According to Frankland, i lb. of the lean of beef, if digested 
and oxidized in the body, might produce an amount of force 
equal to 885 tons raised i ft. high. The greatest amount of 
external work which it could enable a man to perform is 177 tons 
raised i ft. high. One pound of lean mutton-chop can produce at 
the utmost rather less than 2 oz. of the dry nitrogenous substance 
of muscle or flesh, that is, assuming the analysis by M^ne given 
on p. 152 to be a fair representation of this article of food. 

The following further data relate to other meats, &c., as force- 
producers, the higher figures representing the total amount of 
force capable of being set free by the digestion and oxidation 
within the body of those animal foods, and the lower numbers 
representing the force available for external work — both in tons 
raised i ft high, or " foot-tons : " — 



I lb. of beef &it 
I lb. of lean of veal 
I lb. of boiled ham 



Foot-tons. 
5,626 ... 1,125 

726 ... 145 

1,041 ... 208 



* A series of photographs of French breeds of oxen, sheep, and pig* 
will be found in the Collection ; also a series of stuffed and mounted heads 
of some of the chief breeds of British oxen. A head of the eland, a large 
kind of antelope, is also shown. This African animal has been successfiiUy 
bred in England. Its flesh is tender and of excellent flavour. 



154 TRIPE AND SWEETBREAD. 

This seems the proper place to introduce a '^ord or two con- 
•ceming some of the internal parts of animals (or viscerc^ which 
are consumed as food. These often require careful cleansing 
and thorough cooking, and are more likely to be diseased than 
^e muscular flesh. In most cases they are of very close texture, 
and they do not always contain the same kinds of nutritive 
nitrogenous matters as are present in ordinary meat. 

Calves' Liver, according to Payen's analysis, contains the 
following proportions of its constituents : — 

In zoo parts. 
Water 72*3 

Nitrogenous matter 20 'i 

Fat, &C. 6-1 

Mineral matter - - - - - I *5 

Here the ratio of flesh-formers to heat-givers, reckoned as 
•starch, is as i to 7-ioths — a proportion which shows the pro- 
priety of the use of fatty or starchy food with liver, as illustrated 
in the familiar dish of " liver and bacon." 

Case 70. Tripe is the cleansed paunch or first portion of the 
ruminant stomach of the ox. The exact nutritive character of 
tripe is not known. It generally contains much fat A sample 
as sold by the butcher, but freed from the lumps of fat present, 
showed the following composition : — 

In zoo parts. In z lb. 
oz. gr. 
Water 79*5 ... 12 216 

Nitrogenous matter 10 'O ... i 262 

Fat lo'o ... I 262 

Mineral matter 0*5, ... o 35 

These numbers show a high percentage of water and a low 
percentage of mineral matter, due to the cleansing and boiling in 
water which tripe undergoes before it is sold. 

Sweet-bread should be the th5mius gland of the ox: the 
pancreas goes under the same name, kn\oxi% ofCciet N\^c:<5xa. or in- 



POULTRY AND GAME. 155 

temal organs of animals which are eaten are the heart and the 
kidne3r& Both of these organs are of very dense and firm tex- 
ture and cannot be regarded as of easy digestibility. They are 
highly nitrogenous articles of food, but the heart generally contains 
some fat 

Case 71. Reference has already been made to the composition of 
bone. Blood, especially pigs' blood, is sometimes used as food in 
the form of black-pudding. It requires a considerable admixture 
of starchy and oily matter to afford a complete nourishment : it 
contains about 78 per cent of water, the remainder being chiefly 
nitrogenous matter with some mineral salts. 

Case 71. Bullocks' tougues, horses' tongues, rein-deer tongues, 
and sheeps' tongues are commonly used as food, and are nutritious 
and digestible. Some of these kinds are dried and imported in 
that condition : these require long soaking in cold water before 
being cooked. 



§ 4. — ^Poultry and Game. 



One of the chief characteristics of the flesh of fowls, notably 
those which are wild, is the almost entire absence of fat. A^Hien 
much fet is present the flavour of the meat is often less delicate, 
and its digestibility, especially when roasted, decidedly difficult. 
It does not seem that game, even when " high," and therefore to 
some extent decomposed, is really imwholesome when properly 
cooked. A very large number of birds furnish food to man, in 
of^°ir«5*va«d'°* different quarters of the globe. The flesh of those 
7?to 77^* ^^** birds which feed on grain or other vegetable pro- 
ducts is less strongly flavoured than that of carnivorous birds. A 
mere list of names of the most important kinds of poultry and 
game would not be very useful, in the absence of details con- 
cerning their relative values as food, and ftve e\vem\ca\ co\k^<^'ss5c\ss^ 



iS6 EDIBLE BIRDS NESTS. 

of their flesL But we give here an analysis of the flesh of the 
common fowl as representing this kind of animal food : — 

Inxib. 
oz* gr. 

Water 12 107 

Albuminoids 2 104 

Ossein-like substances ... i ^z 

Fat traces 

Mineral matter o 174 

About thirty different species of birds are commonly used as 
food in Great Britain.* 

Case 78. The flesh of the hare and the rabbit approaches 
somewhat nearly in textu|Fe and composition to that of poultry. 

We may now introduce a strange example of the out-of-the-way 
products of animal origin which have been used as food for man. 
That the eggs of birds and the flesh of birds should be so used 
is familiar enough to us, but that their nests should be regarded 
as suitable for eating, and even as a great delicacy, is certainly 
somewhat surprising. Such, however, is the case ; and we may 
therefore here give a brief account of — 

* For the place in the animal kingdom of the edible birds, see the 
diagrams, above the Cases. 

Stuffed and mounted specimens of the common pheasant, a native of 
Asia Minor ; of the ringed-pheasant, a native of China ; of the parti-colouicd 
pheasant, a native of Japan ; and of varieties and hybrids of the above, are 
shown in Case 72. All the above have been introduced or successfully bred 
in this country. 

Case 73 contains specimens of the capercailzie, grouse, and ptarmigan. 

Case 74 contains a collection of specimens of native Australian waterfowl 
such as are commonly sold in the markets of Melbourne, South Australia. 

Case 75 contains specimens of some of the game-birds of Nova Scotia- 
wood-grouse, prairie-grouse, ptarmigan, and American woodcock. 

Eggs of various breeds of domestic poultry are shown in Case 68 ; also 
eggs of the swan, pheasant, pea-fowl, partridge, plover, redshank, snipe, 
pigeon, turtle-dove, heron, moorhen, guillemot, emu, and ostrich. 



REPTILES. 157 

Edible Birds' Nests. 

Case 77. Edible birds' nests may certainly rank amongst the 
curiosities of food. They are considered great delicacies in 
China, where they form part of all ceremonious feasts, being 
dissolved in soups. They reach China from the Southern Archi- 
pel^o, chiefly from Java, Borneo, Celebes, and the Sulu Islands. 
It has been estimated that no less than 8,400,000 of these nests 
are annually imported into Canton. The finest and whitest kind 
sells for as much as £$ or £6 the lb., but it requires about 
fifty nests to make up one pound. In reality these singular 
structures are rather the brackets upon which the birds afterwards 
build their nests than the nests themselves. The bird — 2l kind of 
swift known as the salangan {Collocalta esculenta) — builds both 
in marine and inland caverns, first forming, mainly with its saliva, 
a number of loops, which it subsequently works up into the 
shell-shaped support for its nest. The nest itself is made of 
grass, leaves, and seaweed, but the edible bracket or support 
consists almost exclusively of the salivary secretion of the bird. 
It is a mistake to suppose it to be made of seaweed, which the 
salangan neither eats as food nor uses in the building of these 
brackets, though the nests are often made of it The salangan 
builds and breeds four times in the year. The brackets are 
removed three times, the best being obtained in July and August* 

Reptiles. 

Case 79- In this coimtry the reptiles used as food are few in 
number. Their flesh is regarded as a luxury. It is, however, 
wholesome and digestible. The green turtle of the West Indies, 
and of some parts of the South American coast, is the best known 

* Spedmens of these nest-brackets, cleaned and in their natural state, and 
of the salangan swift, are shown in Case 77. 



IS8 FISH. 

and most highly appreciated of the reptiles used as food. These 
animals sometimes weigh as much as 700 lb. They aie 
imported alive into this country. Their flesh is the basis of 
turtle-soup. Sun-dried turtle, cut into convenient pieces for 
culinary purposes, are now received in this country from the West 
Indies and other places. They are an excellent substitute for 
live turtle. The land tortoise, which is common on the Medi- 
terranean coasts, is eaten by the inhabitants of Italy and the 
Levant. A small fresh-water turtle, the terapin, is eaten in 
America, and is imported into this country. 

A large frog (Rana esculenta) is eaten in many parts of Europe. 
The hind legs are selected as the best part to be consumed 
Various other reptiles are eaten in different countries — the iguana 
in Guayaquil, the tegu or tequixin in Brazil, the axoloti in Mexico, 
and the green lizard in Rome. 

§ 5. — Fish, &c. 

Cases 80 to 87. The kinds of fish commonly available for food in 
England are numerous. The muscular flesh of the same fish 
differs in different parts of the animal and in different seasons 
of the year. Those fish which are least oily and fat are the 
most wholesome ; but their highly nitrogenous character demands 
the abundant use of starchy foods, in order that a due propor- 
tion of heat-givers may be consumed along with the flesh- 
formers they contain. A dry, woolly, or tough textiure in 
the muscular fibre of fish is an indication of indigestibility. 
Thorough cleansing and thorough cooking of fish is essential 
to its wholesomeness. Lemon juice is one of the best sauces 
that can be used with fish : some of the compound sauces in 
vogue are of very doubtful composition and purity. The least 
oily fish are whiting. They are the most easily digested, 
especially when boiled. Flounders, soles, plaice, and several 
other kinds, are nearly equally available for the invalid. Eels, 



FISH. 159 

salmon^ herrings^ and even mackerel, are far more oily and less 
digestible.* 

The published chemical analyses of fish are very discordant 
This arises in great part from the condition of the fish varying 
at different times of the season. An analysis of a mackerel in 
good condition gave — 

In zoo parts. 

Water 687 

Nitrogenous matter - - - - 13*5 

Oil or fat 12*5 

Common salt 2*2 

Phosphates, potash - salts, and other 

mineral matter , - - - 3.1 

In the nitrogenous matter named above is included a sub- 
stance known as creatine ; it abounds in skate and cod. 

Cases 80 &8x. We quotc (undcr all necessary reserve) the following 
figures from the former " Inventory of the Food Collection" : — 



In 


lib. 


oz. 


gr. 


10 


434 


2 


70 


2 








154 





217 





Composition of i lb. of 






Salmon, 
oz. gr. 

Water- - 12 143 
Nitrogenous ^ 
matters - ] ^^ 


Mackerel Sole. Conger-eel. 
oz. gr. oz. gr. oz. gr. 

... ID 374 ... 13 374 ... II 208 ... 
... 3 387 •• I 350 — 3 233 ... 


Pike. 
02. gr. 

12 281 

3 23 


Herring, 
oz. gr. 

... 12 406 
... I 270 


Fat - - 301 
Mineral matter 387 


... I 56 ... 14 ... 350 ... 
... 57 ... 136 ... 84 ... 


42 
91 


... I 6O' 
... 145 



* Mounted specimens of the common sorts of fish brought to the London 
markets are shown in Case 82. A painted plaster-cast of a full-grown salmon,, 
a mounted specimen of a male salmon (Case 82A), and a set of earthenware 
troughs, to illustrate the method of artificially hatching out the ova of salmon 
and other fish, are exhibited. 

Specimens of dried fish of various kinds may be seen in Cases 83 to 87. 
Amongst these is a collection of edible fishes from Victoria, Australia ; and 
many sorts of dried fish, &c., from the French colonies of St Pierre, Tahiti, 
and Cochin-China. These latter specimens include capelins, herrings, cods' 
tongues, shrimps, prawns, trepangs, &c Specimens of the Bummeloh fish of 
the Chinese Seas and Indian Ocean are aJso shown. These fish, known in 
Bei^^ as " Bombay ducks," are of delicate flavour when fresh, but by drying 
and salting acquire a very strong smell and taste. 

Diagrams presenting a tabular view of the families and orders of fi.shfi& «s,'^ 
shown in the collection. 



i6o OYSTERS. 

According to Frankland's experiments, the following figures 
represent the force, expressed in foot-tons, which could be liberated 
by the digestion and oxidation in the body of i lb. of whiting 
and mackerel : 



Whiting 
Mackerel 



Total work. 


£xtonud WOK 


491 


98 


lyOCX) 


200 



The consumption of fish in London is very large ; the chief 
market is Billingsgate. 

Fish are preserved for subsequent use in several ways— by 
drying, by smoking, by salting, and by the use of oil. The removal 
of moisture or the exclusion of air is the chief condition of success. 
Most kinds of dried and salted fish are rendered more palatable 
and wholesome by being soaked for some hours in cold water. 
The fish which are most easily preserved are those of firm texture, 
or of moderate size, and particularly those which are naturally 
rich in oil or fat. Herrings, anchovies, pilchards or sardines, 
and salmon, are familiar examples. The dried bummeloh fish, 
known in India as " Bombay ducks," are highly esteemed. 

Caviare, the roe of the sturgeon, is generally con- 

For specimens , . , , , , , 

of dried fish, Ac, sumed m a decomposed state, and then cannot be 

see Csise 87. . 

considered wholesome. Fresh caviare is a very 
different article, and does not demand an acquired taste for its 
appreciation. 

Case 88. Oysters and other molluscs may be briefly noticed here. 
Oysters are most digestible when eaten raw, much of the nitro- 
genous matter they contain being rendered tough and insoluble 
by heating. Oysters are often improved in flavour and whole- 
someness by being kept for a day in a shallow dish with some 
weak brine, a little oatmeal being given to them. Oysters con- 
tain about T4 per cent, of flesh-formers and 80 of water. Mussels 
are more frequently found in an unwholesome condition than 
oysters. 



BACON AND PRESERVED MEATS. i6i 

On the continent of Europe there is one kind of snail which 
is often eaten as food. It is common in some parts of southern 
France, and is also found rather abundantly in many of the 
southern parts of England. It is called the Roman or apple 
snail (Helix pomatid). When properly cleansed and properly 
cooked it is a nutritious article of food. It can be collected only 
for a short period during the summer, but then is found in large 
numbers in some districts in Gloucestershire, Kent, and Surrey. 
It occiurs abundantly on the site of many Roman stations in 
England, and is believed to have been introduced by the 
Romans. 

Cases 89 to 91. Lobsters and crabs are not very easy of digestion. 
The latter should be cleansed with the greatest care before being 
eaten. These Crustacea are very coarse feeders, and it is probably 
for this reason that they so frequently disagree even with healthy 
persons. Other Crustacea commonly eaten in Great Britain are 
the fresh-water cray-fish, the shrimp, and the prawn.* 

§ 6. — Bacon and Preserved Meats. 

By salting, or by the exclusion of air, many animal products 
used as food may be preserved for a long time free from decom- 
position. It is not to be supposed that no changes in com- 
position occur, but the decay to which meat of all kinds is so 
prone does not take place. In most cases the digestibility of 
the meat is not improved but rather diminished, at all events 
by salting, though this is probably not equally true of " tinning," 
and is not the case when the process of freezing is employed. 
We will first describe the salting process, as applied to pork, 
giving this instance as an illustrative example; afterwards we 
will notice other methods of preserving meat 

, * Specimens of many different crabs, lobsters, and other Crustacea^ «s^ 
shown in Cases 89 to 92. 



i62 CURING OF BACON. 

Bacon. 

French, Lard, German, Speck. Italian, Lafdo. 

When curedy or preserved by salting and drying, and generally 
by the process of smoking in addition, pork becomes bacon. 

The preparation of bacon is now carried on very extensively 
and systematically in factories specially constructed and fitted 
up for the purpose. The following sketch may give some notion 
of the plan commonly adopted. 

After being fasted 24 hours, the pig is taken to the slaughter- 
house and killed. It is then hung up by the hind legs, singed 
by means of gas, scraped, opened, cleansed by powerful jets of 
water, and dressed. When the carcass has become cool and 
firm, which is generally the case after about 12 hours, it is 
ready for boning or cutting up. This is done by placing the 
pig on a strong table and cutting off the head close to the ears. 
The fore feet are then removed, and the hind feet so as to leave 
a shank td the ham. The carcass is then divided straight 
along the back and the shoulder blade taken out. The sides 
are now ready for salting. Each side is laid singly on the floor 
of a cool cellar, and dressed with a mixture of saltpetre (nitrate 
of potash) and salt, 4 ounces of saltpetre being used for each 
side, together with a quantity of salt corresponding to the size 
of the side. Brine is also forced into the flesh by means of a 
force-pump and jet. The next day the sides are piled one 
above the other, and remain so for four days, when they are 
turned over and sprinkled with more salt Thus they remain 
for 12 days, when they are washed and dried. The next day 
they are taken to the "smoking house," where they hang for 
three days, being continuously smoked during that time with the 
fumes of burning oak sawdust; thus they acquire the desired 
colour and flavour. The sides, when cold, are ready fpr market 
Cured bacon sometimes become rancid or resty through exposure 
to air : this may be avoided by keeping it in dry bran. Another 



COMPOSITION OF BACON. 163 

injury to which bacon is subject arises from the attacks of a 
small fly, the larvae of which are known as jumpers. 

For domestic use pork may be cured as follows : — Stir some 
salt with hot water till no more of the substance is dissolved : this 
forms the brine or pickling liquor. Then mix, for a pig of mode- 
rate size, one pound of brown sugar and half-a-pound of nitre ; 
rub this mixture well into the meat, which is then to be put into 
the pickle, remaining there two days. After this take it out and 
rub the pieces with salt alone. Return it to the pickle. It will 
be ready for use, after drying and smoking, in six or eight weeks. 
It is scarcely necessary to say that bacon varies greatly in compo- 
sition. It always contains less water and more mineral matter 
than the pork from which it has been prepared, while the fat in it 
is more digestible. Highly smoked and dried bacon sometimes 
retains but 12 or 14 per cent, of moisture ; but a fair sample of 
streaky bacon, such as would be selected for the breakfast table, 
would be nearly represented, both as to moisture and its other 
chief constituents, by the following numbers : 

Case 93. 



Water - 

Nitrogenous matter 
Fat - - - 
Salt - - - 
Phosphates, &c. 



In 100 parts 
22*3 


In z lb. 
oz. gr. 
.. 3 248 


8-1 . 

65-2 . 

3-8 . 


.. I 130 
.. 10 189 
.. 256 


06 . 


.. 42 



For one part of flesh-formers in the bacon examined there 
are nearly 20 parts of heat-givers, reckoned as starch, the 65 '2 
per cent of fat being equivalent to nearly 160 parts of starch : 
and it must be further noted that the whole of the 8*1 per cent, 
of nitrogenous matter shown in the analysis cannot be reckoned 
as true albuminoids or flesh-forming nutrients, but, being in part, 
related to gelatin, is of less value. On this account we must 
reckon the amount of dry muscular substance producible from 
I lb. of bacon as under i oz. 

The unsalted trimmings and offal of a bacoTi la.cX.oTj ^^ 

\\ '2. 



i64 PRESERVED MEATS. 

utilised in the form of sausages, the minced materials being 
mixed with bread, fat, and condiments, and then preserved in the 
previously prepared small intestine of the pig. The surplus fat is 
melted, strained, and poured into cleaned pig-bladders; it is 
known as lard. 

Considerable quantities, both of bacon and of lard, are 
imported into this country from British colonies and from foreign 
countries. In 1875 the imports of bacon and hams amounted to 
131,495 tons; the imports of lard to 26,967 tons; and the 
imports of salted pork to 11,639 ^^^s. During the first three 
months of 1876 the imports of bacon and hams showed an 
increased value of ;£^4oo,ooo over the corresponding period of 

1875- 

Preserved Meats. 

Case 94 and 95. There are several plans of preserving meat 
and animal food products generally. Simple drpng is one of the 
most effective of these, but the flavour and other qualities of the 
meat are not improved thereby in most instances ; still this plan is 
available for some substances, and has long been in use. Drying 
in wood-smoke has the further advantage of preserving the sub- 
stance, to some extent, from further change even should it become 
moist This effect is due to the creasote or carbolic acid which 
is present in the smoke. It has even been found that a piece of 
fresh meat which has been dipped in a watery solution of carbolic 
acid will dry up without becoming offensive in odour or taste. 

Salt, sugar, and many substances of a saline nature may be 
used to preserve meat from decomposition. They act by re- 
ducing the proportion of water present, and by preventing the 
development of those lower forms of vegetable and animal life 
which accompany and aid, if they do not originate, decay. But 
the most important methods of preserving animal products depend 
upon the exclusion of the air. This result may be achieved in 



TINNED MEATS. 165 

several ways, which do not appear at first sight to have much in 
common. In all of them, however, the objects in view are the 
removal of the air originally present in the food, and the preven- 
tion of any subsequent entrance of air. To accomplish these 
ends numerous plans have been devised. For the air may be 
excluded or removed by a high temperature or by a low one, or 
by the introduction of a substance like oil or fat, which mechani- 
cally excludes the air. Of the later method, sardines and 
pilchards preserved in oil, and then closed or hermetically sealed 
in tin cases, afford an illustration. Of the former method, the 
Australian meats are good examples. The meat, freed from 
bone, is placed in the tins, which are usually surrounded by a 
boiling solution of chloride of calcium, capable of being heated 
several degrees above the boiling point of water. The air in the 
meat is expelled by the heat, and finally by the rush of steam. 
When, by experience, this expulsion of air is judged to be com- 
plete, the tins are quickly soldered up and will then keep sound 
a great length of time. It should be stated that the tins often 
receive an addition of gravy, or, rather, of jelly, with a little salt, 
and occasionally some condiment or spice. Other processes for 
preserving meat have not proved equally available. Such pro- 
cesses are briefly noted here. The joints to be preserved have 
been coated with collodion, with solid paraffin, or with a mixture 
of gelatin and treacle, or gelatin and glycerin. Solutions of 
the sulphites of lime, . magnesia, or soda, which absorb oxygen 
readily, have been employed. The sulphite of lime in powder, 
sometimes sold as a " meat preserver," has been successfully used 
for preventing meat from becoming tainted in hot weather, and in 
removing any taint which may have been acquired. Powdered 
charcoal, if freshly burnt, has the same properties. But the pre- 
viously described method of enclosing meat in sealed vessels — 
generally of tinned iron, but sometimes of glass — is tmdoubtedly 
the most generally applicable of all meat-pte?keiv\Tv^ Y^oc&'s.'s>fc^. 
The same method is used, also, for the piesexvaXxoxi oil x^^'s^^ 



1 66 A USTRALIAN ME A TS. 

every kind of moist vegetable and animal products used as food, 
but prone to decay under ordinary conditions. The tinned 
Australian meats are gradually becoming more appreciated in 
England. They are moderate in price, agreeable in flavour, and 
perfectly wholesome. They generally have one defect, it is true, 
that of having been over-cooked. But during the last year or 
two several improvements have been devised in the process of 
tinning meats, by which the considerable heat and length of time 
necessary to secure complete expulsion of the air, before the tins 
in which the meat is contained can be sealed up by soldering, 
have been reduced. It has been found that a little sulphite of 
soda enclosed in the tins may be used to absorb the last traces of 
oxygen — ^that constituent of the air which causes decay. And 
even gases, such as carbonic acid, carbonic oxide, and sulphurous 
acid have been introduced into the vessels containing preserved 
foods, for the same purpose. Then, too, methods of injecting 
antiseptic gases or solutions into the carcasses of animals used 
for food have been experimented with. Further progress will 
doubtless be made during the next few years in these directions ; 
much, for instance, may be expected from the application of cold 
and of condensed gases in the preservation of provisions. We 
also regard the processes of drying and smoking as worthy of 
more extended use in connection with the preservation of butchers' 
meat. 

From Australia we already receive smoked and dried legs of 
mutton of excellent quality. 

Cases 94 and 95. The importation of tinned Australian meats has 
assumed very considerable proportions since its origination ten 
years ago. During the last few years the annual value of these 
Australian tinned meats has often exceeded ;£^5 00,000 sterling. 
It may be well to state that the prejudice against these tinned 
meats has been partly of the usual unreasonable sort, which 
revolts against all novelties in food; and has partly arisen 
from ignorance as to suitable laod^s ol cooY\w.% ^^^^ isksass 



MEAT EXTRACT AND FIBRIN, 167 

They may be properly used in Irish stews, in soups, and in many 
other ways, provided they be duly flavoured with condiments and 
are not re-cooked further than is necessary to heat them where 
they are not preferred cold. One caution about the tinned meats 
is necessary. Sometimes — though rarely — they have been found 
to contain a little lead in solution in the gravy; sometimes a 
large number of small globules of soft solder, containing much 
lead, at the bottom of the tin. This caution applies to all tinned 
provisions, vegetable as well as animal. They should be care- 
fully examined for metallic globules, which may prove injurious 
if swallowed with these foods. 

Meat Extract and Fibrin. 

Case 93, When raw meat is thoroughly extracted with cold 
water, a liquid is obtained which contains creatine and a 
number of other crystallised nitrogenous matters, together 
with such mineral salts as the phosphate, sulphate, and chloride 
of potassium. So long as the extract remains at a low temper- 
ature, it will also retain in solution some at least of the soluble 
albumen of the meat. If the liquor be now boiled down, the 
albumen will curdle and separate, while the filtered liquor, if 
further concentrated, will become a nearly solid brown mass, rich 
in the permanently-soluble constituents of muscular flesh. Such a 
preparation does not contain more than a very small proportion 
of the true nutrients of meat, but is little more than a food- 
adjunct Thus it is, that Liebig's Extract of Meat cannot be re- 
garded as a food, though its use as a flavourer and as a medicine 
is not unimportant; it also furnishes some of the minor food 
constituents. An extract of meat prepared with boiling water 
contains gelatin. The fibrin of meat which is used in the 
preparation of these extracts is valuable when dried and powdered, 
or made into fibrin biscuits, &c., as a rich flesh-forming nutritive 
material. 



wSA CS£S OF iOCB-^mjUSCIS. 



PART nr.-OF FOOD-ADJOCTS. 



2s cnfJTg 2irr ^'-Tgr wcrk ix rie icct- Bar liese j3Lqizn£& in 

sood 2^ss2cie. ^g'^rrffTrrrri^ x ^^T^mr jccecT*- 2af TfiJTr ac:^ sa die 
^^»w^-:#uT g£ zne immeix^ xui lefu 3:2 rsiosr ^slhiisbMe food 

5ao(5-a^iBcs scrzsllj rnr-M'^rr — sjGm^ wa± rrgyr cnzxractenstic 

db2£ oe scdve |^r"Hr-"-ft*«g cf oc:25i iQci5raqiim:T:> bxine some 

r^gm^T cf trwiit*, &E^ iv^Dcs: ^ <ar ni i±e bzor. I]x general 

s£ov cpcB^ i^ ^DDSEve ^ise et :2i& Z!ne iZ33tiieiits 
cf Ae bo^x TTgn^ BGEC wil ^s be c^ case v35l ^^^ food- 




^gTI cQBs&r tair sevesi g?oaps of 

S2e££5r TJEnsSrEeif ^p^ ^'^ Tbe first 



»»A^-\«»-. %«.,■-■ ♦;;i'*». 



ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS. 169 

§ I. — Beer, Wine, and Spirits. 

The- food-adjunct which is present in all fermented liquors, 
and in the different kinds of distilled spirits prepared therefrom, 
is a liquid known as alcohol and as spirits of wine. This liquid 
bums readily when a flame is applied to it, but it is very doubtful 
whether it is ever completely burnt or oxydised in the human 
body. Contrary to the general impression, it now appears that 
alcohol in any form lowers the temperature of the body. To 
many constitutions it is decidedly injiuious, even when consumed 
in very moderate quantities and in the weakest or most dilute 
liquors. Its use throughout the day is nearly always fraught 
with danger. It is probable that it is best taken, not as a 
stimulant before work, but as a restorative after work, and as 
an accompaniment to the substantial meal of the day. Much,, 
too, depends upon the form in which the alcohol is taken. Light 
wines, perfectly natural and not fortified with spirit, and pure 
beer or ale, are probably the most desirable liquors for general 
use. The worst kinds are distilled spirits, not only because of 
their strength, but because of the absence of those other con- 
stituents which modify the effect of alcohol in other beverages. 
But there is another bad quality in most spirits — that is the 
presence of a liquid called fusel oil. The exact physiological 
action on the human organism of fusel oil is not ascertained, but 
there is good reason to believe this liquid (in reality itself a kind 
of alcohol) to be more active than ordinary alcohol. We shall 
recur to this subject in the paragraph on distilled spirits. Here,, 
however, a few further words about ordinary alcohol may not be 
out of place. The term " absolute alcohol " is used to designate 
pure spirits of wine wholly unmixed with water. It is chemically 
pure alcohol, the hydrate of ethyl, a liquid boiling at 173^ Fah.^ 
and having the specific gravity 794 (water being 1000). Proof 
spirit is a mixture containing 49 J^ per cent of its weight of 
absolute alcohol ; its specific gravity is 920. 



I70 MALT AND MALTING. 

Beer. 

French, Bilre, German, Bier. Italian, Birra, 
Case 96. The most commonly used of all fermented liquon 
in England is beer, under which term we include ale and porter. 
These liquors are prepared from malted grain by simple fer- 
mentation, without concentration, dilution, or distillation of the 
fermented liquor. 

The three materials employed in the manufacture of beer are 
malt, hops, and water. 

The malt is made of sprouted or germinated grain, usually 
barley or rye. To prepare malt the grain is first placed in the 
" cistern," where it remains 50 hours, absorbing a large quantity 
of water and swelling considerably. It is then shifted into what 
is called the " couch," where, according to excise regulations, it 
remains 20 hours, and where the duty is taken by gauge. After 
this it is removed to the " floors," where the process of growth 
soon makes itself evident by the appearance of the slender rootlet 
of the seed. Barley in this stage of its conversion into malt is 
shown in specimen 3 ; while 4 shows the grain when it is six days 
old, the sprout, or acrospire, as it is called, being now much longer. 
The next specimen (No. 5) is of the grain when 10 days old, and 
No. 6 shows the grain when the sprouting has gone on to the full 
extent desired. Most maltsters and brewers dry the grain when 
it is from 10 to 12 days old, but occasionally 14 days elapse 
before the process of malting is considered sufficiently complete. 
These variations depend partly upon the quality of grain em- 
ployed, partly upon the temperature during malting, and partly 
upon the special purpose for which the malt is intended. When 
the germinated grain is considered sufficiently grown, further 
sprouting is stopped by drying it in the malt-kiln. The heat used 
causes other changes, and is different according to the kind of 
beer for which the malt is to be used. Some idea of the tem- 
peratures may be gathered from this list : — No. 7, pale malt, for 
the palest ales, at about 100*^ Fah. No. 8, amber malt, for other 
ales, at about 120® Fah. l^o. 9,\iioviTiia2X\.,loT'^cpc\et,^\.^cwfc 



HOPS. 171 

160*^ Fah. No. 10, black malt, for colouring, at 380^ or 400*^ Fah. 
When malt has been finished by drying, it differs a good deal from 
the original unmalted grain. Instead of 15 per cent, of water, it 
contains only five ; but the chief change which it has undergone is 
the conversion of some of its starch into a kind of gum called 
dextrin, and into a species of sugar. It is found that screened 
malt contains, moreover, a substance capable of changing both 
dextrin and soluble starch into sugar. We say " screened " malt 
because the malt after kiln-drying is always sifted, to remove the 
rootlets or acrospires, which, under the name of malt dust or malt 
coombs (No. 11), form a very valuable food for cattle, containing, 
as they do, about one quarter their weight of flesh-formers. The 
substance in malted grain which has the power of changing starch 
into dextrin and sugar is sometimes spoken of as diastase or 
maltin — it is a nitrogenous substance belonging to the albuminoid 
group. When malt is used for brewing it is first crushed (see 
specimen No. 1 2) and then infused in water, by which its soluble 
constituents are dissolved out, "wort" being produced, and 
brewers' grains are left (see No. 13). The wort is usually fer- 
mented at temperatures ranging between 60^ and 90^ Fah. 
During the fermentation sugar changes into alcohol, which re- 
mains in the liquor, and carbonic acid gas, which partly remains, 
giving briskness and frothiness to the beer, and partly escapes. 

Hops are added to the wort to give an agreeable bitter taste 
and keeping quality to the beer. Hops are the cones or strobiles 
of the hop {Humulus LupuluS)^ called houblon by the French, and 
Hdpfen in German. They were condemned in Henry VI.'s reign 
as an "imwholesome and wicked weed." In mediaeval times 
other plants were used for the same purpose, as ground ivy 
{Nepda Glechoma), sweet gale {Myrica Gale)^ and sage {Salvia 
officinalis^. Hops contain about 4 per cent, of the astringent 
substance tannin, ij^ per cent, of a fragrant essential oil, and 
much resin. These substances are chiefly found in the yellow 
glandular sccrt^ion of the hop cones, caXi^di lujulin, Q>n^x 



172 BREWING. 

60,000 acres are devoted to the culture of this plant in England, 
chiefly in Kent, Sussex, and Worcestershire, while increasing 
quantities are yearly imported from Bavaria, Wurtemberg and 
Belgium. Specimens of hops from different localities are shown 
in the case (Nos. 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19). The exhausted or 
spent hops (No. 20) axe useful as manure. 

Of the water used in brewing beer little need be said. It 
should of course be free from all injurious impurities, and espe- 
cially from any organic matters undergoing change. But it must 
be noted that there is one mineral substance which exercises a 
decidedly beneficial effect upon beer, both during the progress of 
the brewing and on the* finished product — this is sulphate of lime 
or gypsum. When the water available for brewing is deficient in 
this compound, it is introduced by allowing the water to pass 
over or through blocks of this mineral, or by stirring in the sul- 
phate of lime in fine powder or crystals. 

To make three barrels of ale (108 gallons), the quantities of 
the several materials required will be somewhat as follows : — 

I quarter of Malt ; 

8 pounds of Hops ; and 

5 barrels of Water — the barrel being 36 gallons. 

In brewing, one barrel of water — that is, 36 gallons — is lost 
by evaporation, and 14 gallons in the fermentation and racking; 
18 gallons are absorbed by the grains, and 4 gallons by the hops. 

The process of brewing is begun by crushing the malt, and 
then pouring hot water (180^ Fah.) upon it, with constant stir- 
ring. This mashing yields the liquor called nveet wort, which is 
then boiled with hops, and afterwards rapidly cooled. The liquor 
is now fermented by the aid of yeast from a previous brewing. 
The fermentation is stopped before it is complete by separating 
the yeast and drawing the beer off into casks. The fining of beer 
may take place naturally, 01 \l ma^ \i^ ^^^cX&d \yj means of 



BREWING. 



173 



isinglass dissolved in tartaric acid, in sour beer, or in weak 
sulphuric acid. There are many other fining materials which 
may be used. 

The finished beer holds in solution a large number of sub- 
stances^ but the quantities of these substances present are not 
large — this fermented liquor always containing between 80 and 
90 per cent of water. The following is a list of the chief com- 
pounds known to occur in beer : — 

1. Alcohol, or spirits of wine, from 8 to 3 per cent 

2. Dextrin, about 4*5 per cent 

3. Albuminoids, about 0*5 per cent 

4* Sugar, about 0*5 per cent. \ 

5. Acetic, Lactic, and Succinic Acids, about 0*3 per cent 

6. Carbonic Acid Gas, about 0*15 per cent 

7. Mineral Matter, about 0*3 per cent 

In the following analyses only some of the above constituents 
are separately entered, the items 2, 3, and 4 above being, for 
instance, set down as " extractive matter," a term which includes 
also several substances not named above (glycerine, caramel, 
hop-extract, &c.). 

An imperial pint of the beers named contains — 



Beers. 


Water. 


Alcohol. 


Acetic 
acid. 


Extractive 
matter. 


Mineral 
matter. 




oz. gr. 


oz. gr. 


gr. 


oz. gr. 


gr- 


London Stout 


18 342 


I 74 


22 


I 25 


22 


London Porter 


iS 412 


I 10 


16 


I 3 


18 


Pale Ale 


18 409 


I 12 


17 


372 


10 


Strong Ale - 


17 399 


2 iS 


21 


2 42 


30 



A few words may not be out of place here as to the intro- 
duction of other materials (besides those already named) into 
beer. 

But it should be at once stated that maxv^ ot ^'fe ^\i5a?Naxss:.^^ 



174 WINE. 

supposed to be used for the purpose of adulterating beer and 
malt liquors are rarely so employed, and that some of these 
substances have never been so used. Thus, the rumour that 
strychnine (from the seeds oiStrychnos nux-vomica) had been exten- 
sively used to give bitterness to beer was entirely devoid of foun- 
dation. There is also reason to think that the employment of 
" Cocculus Indicus " — the fruits of Anamirta Cocculus — in brewing 
has been very limited and exceptional: other bitter vegetable 
products have however been detected in some samples of ale. 
Caramel, or burnt sugar, liquorice, and salts of iron have been 
found in porter. A very common adulteration is salt — the object 
of this addition being not so much to develop the flavour and 
preserve the liquor, as to produce a craving for more drink in 
the frequenters of the beer-shop. Much artificial sugar (glucose) 
is also used in brewing, for the purpose of strengthening the wort 
The use of gypsum, of which we have before spoken, can hardly 
be regarded as an adulteration. 

Beer which is sour or hard, or that which is thick and muddy, 
is not wholesome. The decided sourness of some beers is due 
to the alteration of a good deal of the spirit, which by ex- 
posure to air acquires oxygen, becoming changed into vinegar or 
acetic acid. The cloudiness of beer is often due to a second 
fermentation. 

Wine. 

French, Vin, German, Wein. Italian, Vino, 

When the sugary juice of any fruit is left to itself for a time, 
at a moderately warm temperature, the change known as fermen- 
tation occurs. This fermentation is generally brought about by 
the growth of a low form of vegetable life, an organised ferment. 
It consists of a splitting up of the sugar present in the liquid (or 
at least of a large part of it) into alcohol, which remains in the 
liquid, and carbonic acid gas, which escapes more or less com- 
pletAy, 



CONSTITUENTS OF WINE. 175 

Case 96. Although the fermented juice of all fruits may be 
regarded as wine, yet the term is generally limited to the al- 
coholic liquor prepared from the grape. But we have in England 
at least two familiar native wines — perry, or pear wine, and 
cider, or apple wine. Other so-called British wines are usually 
made-up or compound liquors, into which a large quantity of cane 
or beet sugar has been introduced. They cannot be regarded 
as true wines, nor are they generally wholesome. 

By a reference to the analysis of grapes (p. 118) it will be 
seen that the chief ingredient in their juice is glucose, a kind of 
sugar. There is also some albuminoid matter and a little tartaric 
acid, chiefly in combination with potash ; other minor ingredients 
also exist in grape-juice. The seeds of the grape contain the 
astringent substance, tannin, with some bitter principles, while in 
the skins not only does colouring matter exist, but also some 
flavouring matters and tannin. From these facts it will be clearly 
seen that very different qualities of wine may be made from the 
same quality of grape, according to the method of operating upon 
the fhiit The colour, the bouquet or volatile flavour, the 
astringency, &c., of a wine may thus be varied according to the 
admission or exclusion of the characteristic ingredients of the 
skins and stones of the grapes. 

Case 97. The main difference between grape juice and grape 
wine is the substitution of the sugar in the former by the alcohol 
which is characteristic of the latter. But other changes occur in 
the fermentation and ripening of wines. Much of the acid tartrate 
of potash is deposited from the liquid on being kept, this deposit 
being called argol. Argol consists chiefly of the above-named 
tartrate, but with it a little colouring matter and some tartrate of 
lime are always found. In the stronger but natural white wines 
small floating crystals of cream of tartar often occur ; they are nearly 
pure acid tartrate of potash. A small quantity of free acetic acid 
is found in wines. When they become sour it is this acid to 
which the sourness is due ; it is formed by iVve otsa.^^.\-\oxv q>^ '5»<3vsNa. 



176 ALCOHOL IN WINES. 

of the alcohol present, a change which occurs more readily in 
weak natural wines than in those which contain much alcohol. 
Another important characteristic of wines is the presence, in small 
quantity, of certain compounds called ethers. They are usually 
fragrant oily liquids, of which traces are present in all wines. 
These ethers are compounds formed by the union of the ordinary 
alcohol or spirit of wine with some of the acids which are con- 
tained in the fermented liquor — at least this is usually the case. 
Much, then, of the flavour and perfume of a wine is due to these 
ethers, some of which existed, ready-formed, in the grape itself, 
while others were slowly formed on keeping the fermented liquor. 
Different varieties of grape yield differently-flavoured wines, but 
the alcoholic strength of a wine depends mainly upon the pro- 
portion of sugar in the grapes and in the degree of completion to 
which the process of fermentation is carried. The same kind of 
grape gives a very different wine as to flavour and alcoholic 
strength in accordance with the climate in which it is grown, the 
season, and the soil. 

The quantity of true or absolute alcohol in natural wines 
varies from 7 per cent, in some hocks, clarets, and other light 
wines, to 13 per cent in many Greek and Hungarian vintages. 
When the quantity of absolute alcohol exceeds 13 or 13)^ per 
cent, it may usually be considered that the wi^e has received 
an addition of distilled spirit, or has been fortified. Wines of 
delicate flavour will not bear fortifying, the alcohol added being 
usually derived from the fermentation of artificially-prepared grape 
sugar, and containing the coarsely-flavoured alcohols known as 
fusel oiL A fortified wine may contain a good ddal of sugar, for 
the addition of spirit to a fermenting liquid checks, more or less 
completely, the further change of the sugar. 

Wines under 26^ of proof spirit pay on importation a duty of 

I J. a gallon; those over 26? and under 42^ pay 2s, 6d, Large 

and increasing quantities of natural wines now come into this 

country. Even of Spanish wmes so \m^oi[\.^d ^o\it half are of 



FOREIGN AND ENGLISH WINES. 



177 



natural strength, while the average of all Spanish wines does not 
show much over 28 per cent, of proof spirit — ^rather less than 
14 per cent, of absolute alcohol. 

Case 97. The following table shows the quantities of alcohol, 
of fixed acids — calculated as tartaric acid — of acetic acid, of sugar, 
of ethers, and of mineral matter or ash, contained in fair average 
samples of eight different kinds of wines commonly consumed 
in Europe. One imperial pint of each of the following wines 
contains about — 



1 

Name of Wine. 


Alcohol 
(absolute). 


Tartaric 

and other 

fixed acids. 


Acetic 
acid. 


Sugar. 


Ethers. 


Mineral 
matter. 

1 


Hock 
Claret 
Champagne 
Burgundy - 
Carlowitz - 
Sherry 
Madeira - 
Port - 


oz. gr. 
I 219 

I 306 

1 343 

2 18 

2 35 

3 147 
3 218 
3 218 


gr« 

39 

31 
20 

24 
36 

24 
26 

23 


gr. 
18 

18 

10 

17 

19 
12 

18 

12 


oz. gr. 
none 

9 

1 120 
10 

none 
236 
175 

359 


gr. 

4 
6 

5 
6 

5 

4 

5 
6 


1 

gr. 
16 

18 

20 

18 

16 

38 

33 
20 



The different wines made in this country from rhubarb stalks, 
gooseberries, currants, cowslips, elderberries, oranges, &c., con- 
tain oxalic, malic, and other acids, besides the tartaric acid which 
is the chief acid of the grape. Now these acids are not thrown 
out of the liquor after fermentation, as is the case to a great extent 
with the wine from grapes. Thus sugar has to be added to mask 
the acidity of tBese liquors, and in consequence they are not so 
wholesome as the natural imported wines. But it must not be 
supposed that grapes are entirely free from all acids save tartaric, 
or that the analyses above given represent every constituent of 
the wines we have included in the table.* 

* Specimens of grapes, &c, will be found in Case 58. A.ixiQds^NSae^^x'^ 
15 labelied 101, Samples of British wines are shovm itx C2&^ cj^. 



178 DISTILLED SPIRITS. 

The ethers of wine previously alluded to include a number of 
compounds not yet completely analysed or understood. Some 
of them, however, have been examined pretty fully, and even 
exactly imitated by chemical means. CEnanthate, butyrate, and 
acetate of ethyl are the names given to some of the best known of 
these ethers. These ethers enter into the composition of the 
artificial " oil of cognac " and various flavouring essences. 

Cider, the fermented juice of apples, contains from 25^ to 4 J^ 
per cent, of absolute alcohol, together with some malic acid, gum, 
mineral matter, &c. The quantity of sugar present varies with 
the less or more complete fermentation of the apple-juice. 

Perry, made from pears, closely resembles cider in flavour and 
composition. 

Distilled Spirits. 

When any kind of fermented liquor is warmed, the vapour 
which first comes off contains much of the spirit or alcohol 
present. If the vapour be collected and cooled it assumes the 
form of a liquid, which originally received the name of spirits of 
wine. The operation is known as distillation, and the promict is 
called distilled spirits. As the heat is continued the distilled 
liquid becomes weaker and weaker, containing more water and 
less alcohol. The cause of the differences in flavour between 
distilled spirits from different sources lies not in the alcohol, but 
in the traces of ethers or essential oils which accompany this 
alcohol — which are volatile, like alcohol, and which are easily 
dissolved by it. The flavours of distilled spirits origmate in the 
substances which by their fermentation have given rise to the 
alcoholic liquors which have been distilled. But it is usual, in 
many cases, to add flavouring matters of many kinds to distilled 
spirits. Indeed, from the same batch of spirits obtamed by the 
distillation of a fermented solution of grape sugar or malt sugar, 
either gin, or whisky, or brandy may 'b^ ^x^^^x^d^ The spirit 



GIN. 179 

used must be pure — zt least it must have no very pronounced 
flavour of its own — if it has to be used as the basis of several 
distinct kinds of ardent spirits. It must tell no tales of its origin 
— of the starch, old rags, paper, or woody fibre, from which, by 
the action of sulphuric acid, it has been derived. It must in fact 
deserve the name often given to it of silent spirit. 

Case 99. The following are the chief varieties of distilled 
spirits in common use : — 

Gin, which is obtained, or should be obtained, from the dis- 
tillation of fermented grain, is flavoured with the essential oil of 
juniper berries, and other aromatic substances. Many recipes for 
the preparation of this liquor are in use by the distillers, but the 
general plan is to introduce into the still the essential oil (which 
is often turpentine), the aromatic seeds and fruits, the creasote, 
and other materials of strong taste which are in vogue, and to 
distil the spirit once or more from this complex mixture. The 
less residue there is left when a pint of gin is boiled down till 
nothing more can be driven off at the heat of boiling water the 
more likely it is to be wholesome. Another test for the quality 
of this and all other distilled spirits is the following : Get a 
straight glass tube, about three feet long, about half an inch 
wide, open at both ends, and perfectly clean and dry. Hold 
it upright, and pour the spirit to be tested down it, so that the 
inner surface of the tube is thoroughly wetted. Then move the 
tube to and fro till the ordinary alcohol has become vaporised. 
There will remain behind most of the odorous substances present 
in the original spirit. Thus the fusel oil, so abundant in the 
spirit distilled from fermented beet-root sugar or potato-starch 
sugar, will remain in the tube, and may be detected by its powerful 
and choking smelL This fusel oil contains what are called the 
higher alcohols of the same series as that to which ordinary 
alcohol belongs. Amongst these we may name butyl, propyl, and 
amyl alcohol. On keeping a spirit which contains these alcohols 
they will often be found to diminish m quanXxt^, ^n\xv%tss& \» 



i8o BRANDY. 

compound ethers like acetate of butyl and amyl. These ethers 
are more agreeable in taste and smell, and probably less ob- 
jectionable, from a physiological point of view, than the fusel oil 
from which they originate. 

Gin is sold at very var3ning strengths, so far as alcohol is con- 
cerned — z. common strength being 17 under proof. It is often 
lowered still further by the addition of water. The water used 
is too often itself unwholesome and charged with impurities. 
Nothing but carefully prepared and filtered distilled water should 
be used— ithis is the case in the best distilleries. But the dis- 
tillers are not to blame in most cases for the bad quality of the 
gin sold in public-houses. The retailers, not infrequently, having 
lowered the alcoholic strength of the liquor by means of water, 
restore the fiery character of the spirit by means of natural and 
artificial preparations of a heating character. 

A sample of London gin was found to be 22 under proof, 
and contained 1 1 3^ gr. of solid matter per pint. 

Cordial gin is flavoured with additional spices and essential 
oils, as cinnamon, cloves, &a Gin containing sugar is sold as 
sweetened gin. 

The words " gin " and " geneva " are believed to be derived 
from the French word genihrre^ juniper. 

Brandy^ when genuine, is the spirit distilled from wine. 
Imitations are sold under the name of British brandy. Cognac 
and other genuine French brandies are flavoured with prunes or 
dried plums, and always contain some sugar. Caramel, or burnt 
sugar, and many other substances are used to colour and flavour 
the spirit from potatoes, &c., which receives the name of brandy 
in England. True brandy contains some oenanthic and acetic 
ether from the wine ; the imitation brandy is flavoiured with the 
so-called essence of cognac, an artificial mixture of certain chemi- 
cally-prepared ethers. 

A good sample of true cognac, of pale colour, was found to 
contain 136 gr. of solid dissoVv^d ^>3to^'UTiKft^ ^x SsK^isial pint, 



RUM. i8i 

74 gr. being sugar. It was of proof strength, but is usually 
sold at 15 under proof. A fair sample of dark brown " British 
brandy" was found to contain 6iJ^ gr. of solid fixed matter 
per pint, i8j^ gr. being sugar. Its strength was 17 under proof. 

True brandy improves in flavour by being kept. 
Whisky^ when genuine, is distilled from fermented grain. It 
has a smoky taste, owing to the presence of traces of creasote, 
&c., from wood or peat smoke. By the addition of artificial 
flavourers, any distilled or silent spirit may be made into whisky. 
A good sample of Scotch whisky, two years old, was 10 over 
proof (but it is often sold at 10 under proof). The same sample 
was found to contain 6 gr. of solid matter per pint, 3 gr. of 
this being sugar. Whisky is sometimes put into sherry casks. 
If it becomes thick it should be filtered through paper-pulp 
filters; too often it is fined by chemical preparations, such as 
the following: First, a little carbonate of soda in solution is 
thoroughly mixed with the liquor, and then a corresponding 
quantity of Epsom salts is added. The precipitate of carbonate 
of magnesia which then forms carries down with it any floating 
particles. But salts of several kinds, and other impurities, are 
thus introduced into the spirit. 

A sample of so-called Scotch whisky supplied by a large 
London firm was found to be rather impure so far as fixed 
matter is concerned. The total residue firom one pint amounted 
to 50 gr., 42 of which were sugar. 

Rum is made from the molasses, or dark uncrystallisable 
liquid sugar, which is obtained in the preparation of solid sugar 
firom cane juice. The skimmings from the vats in which the cane 
juice is clarified and boiled down are used in the same way. 
White rum is the pure distilled spirit, but ordinary Jamaica rum 
has been coloured with caramel. 

A genuine sample of rum fi:om the West Indies was found 
to contain 36^^ gr. of solid residue per pint, 18 gr. b^ing 
sugar, and i^ gr^ being mineral mattei. TYifc cJKwel TiaJossa^ 



i82 LIQUEURS. 

flavouring material of ram is butyric ether, but this spirit some- 
times receives in addition the flavour of the pineapple. 

Case 99. Besides gin, brandy, whisky, and rum, there are 
many kinds of spirits from sources other than those already 
named, and possessed of different flavours, artificial or natural. 
Amongst these we may name the following, premising that all the 
products are obtained by the distillation of a fermented solution 
of sugar — that sugar being naturally present in the original fruit, 
root, &C., or else produced by a change of starch into sugar. 
Distilled spirits are obtained from oranges, cashew-nuts, apricots, 
Jerusalem artichokes, sugar-millet, potatoes, flowering branch and 
sap of many palms (arrack), cider, cider lees, maize, honey, 
refuse of starch manufacture, &a &c. A Japanese spirit, called 
" saki," is distilled from rice. 

The peculiar and often disagreeable odour and taste of dis- 
tilled spirits may be removed by careful and repeated distillation, 
and by very thorough filtration through animal charcoal. Some 
chemical substances are also found to be useful in aiding the 
separation of the fusel oil and other substances upon which the 
odour and flavour of different distilled spirits depend.* 

Liqueurs. 

Case 99. When a considerable quantity of sugar is added to a 
flavoured spirit, a cordial or liqueur is the product. The flavour- 
ing materials used in liqueurs are named in the next section of 
the present part of this volume : they are very numerous, and 
include natural products, as fruits, seeds, bark, and roots, as well 
as the essential oils and separated aromatic principles of these 
parts of plants. Orange bitters contain the essential oil of orange- 
peel and the bitter substance which accompanies it. Noyau is 

* In Case 100 there are numerous specimens of distilled spirits or alcohol 
from new or unusual sources. They have been rendered potable by filtration 
through charcoal, &c 



CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL. 183 

flavoured with the essential oil of bitter almonds, which is iden- 
tical with that distilled from peach kernels, laurel leaves, &c. 
Chartreuse contains a peculiar kind of turpentine, with the essen- 
tial oil of angelica. The names of other liqueurs sufficiently 
indicate the nature of the flavoiuring substances to which their 
taste and some other qualities are due. Absinthe is wormwood, 
and gives its name to a bitter liqueur much consumed in France. 
Tea, coffee, cocoa, and vanilla are also employed in the pre- 
paration of liqueurs or flavoured spirits. 

Some notion of the amount of spirits annually consumed in 
Great Britain may be gained from the following figures, which 
represent the total Customs and Excise duties on spirits paid in 
the year ending 31st March, 1876 : — 

England ;f 13,206,64? 

Scotland- - - 4;C4i,4i9 

Ireland 3»328,752 

Total - ;f20,576,6i2 

The total value of these distilled spirits amounted tO;;^43,o67,o22. 
If to this figure we add ;£'7 2,785,921 as the cost of the malt 
liquor consumed in one year, ;^i3, 112,029 for the foreign wines, 
and ;£^ 1, 000,000 for other alcoholic liquors, we arrive at a grand 
total of ;£^i 30,000,000 or more as the annual value of the alco- 
holic beverages made in or imported into the United Kingdom. 
It is estimated that the above annual quantity of distilled spirits 
contains 21,000,000 gallons of absolute alcohol, the total quan- 
tity in all the beverages being at least 80,000,000 gallons. The 
number of gallons of spirits paying duty in the year 1875 was 
as follows : — 

Gallons. 
British spirits ------- 30, 106, 107 

Colonial spirits ..---. 5,361,486 

Foreign spirits ------ 6,421,164 

Total • ^\,^^^nVl 



1 84 MUSTARD. 

The duty payable on imported spirits is loj. 5//. per gallon. 
Most of the rum imported came from British Guiana and the 
British West Indies. From France 3,250,000 gallons of brandy 
were received, and from Holland a small quantity of Geneva. 

§ 2. — Condiments, Spices, and Flavourers, 

The taste of many vegetable products is so definite and so 
strong that they cannot be used as substantive articles of diet 
These fruits and seeds, &c., are, however, very useful as means 
of imparting agreeable flavours to the simpler food materials, 
which thus become not only more palatable but more wholesome. 
Still, the condiments, spices, and flavourers must be used with 
moderation, or their action on the processes of digestion and 
assimilation may become injurious. 

The chief active and efficient ingredients of this group of 
food-adjuncts are volatile — that is, they may generally be dissi- 
pated by a moderate heat. Most of them are known as essential 
oils, but some are solid crystalline bodies or resinous matters. 
We shall here first describe the chief condiments, then the spices, 
and afterwards the group to which the name of flavourers has 
been given. 

Mustard. 

French, Moutarde. German, Senf, Italian, Mostarda. 

Case 102. Black Mustard is the seed of Brassica nigra, a plant 
found wild in most parts of Europe. It is cultivated in Elsass, 
Bohemia, Italy, Holland, and England. It flourishes in the rich 
alluvial soils of Lincolnshire and Yorkshire. It was in common use 
in the Middle Ages as a condiment. Black mustard seeds are but 
one-fifth the size of white mustard seeds : they contain one-third 
of their weight of a bland fixed oil, while the pungent essential oil 
is not produced till the ground seeds are wetted. This pungent 
oil contains both nitrogen and sulphur. The best flour of 
mustard contains nothing but b\ac\L axvd \«\v\\.^ TaM"5.t^xd seeds : 



PEPPER. 185 

some manufacturers, however, produce an inferior material con- 
taining flour, turmeric, and capsicum. The seeds of another kind 
of mustard (Brassica juncea) are largely substituted for the true 

black mustard ; no less than 790 tons of this kind having been 

* 

imported from British India into the United Kingdom in 1872. 

White Mustard^ the seeds of Brassica alba, does not yield a 
pungent oil. Its cultivation is extending in England, as in Essex 
and Cambridgeshire. 

Pepper. 
French, Poivre, German, Pfeffer, Italian, Pepe, 

Case loa. Pepper consists of the fruits (twenty to thirty of whic^ 
grow on one flower-stalk) of Piper nigrum, a. perennial climbing 
plant, a native of Travancore and Malabar, but introduced into 
Sumatra, Java, Siam, West Indies, &c. Pepper owes its pungency 
to about 2 per cent, of an essential oil : it contains also 2)4 per 
cent, of piperin. 

White Pepper is prepared from the above-named fruits when 
ripe by removing the dark pericarp or covering ; it thus becomes 
less pungent. 

Long Pepper consists of the unripe spike or fruit produced 
by two other species of Piper, namely : P, longum, a native of 
Malabar ; and P, officinarum, a native of the Indian Archipelago. 
Cayenne Pepper is prepared from the pods of one or more 
kinds of Capsicum, The small pods are called chillies, and are 
produced by C fastigiatum, a. plant which is wild in South India, 
and cultivated in tropical Africa and America. Chillies have 
been termed Spanish pepper, red pepper, and pod pepper. 
Another species of capsicum {C. annuum) yields the larger pods, 
generally called " capsicums " (the poivrons of the French) ; of 
these several varieties exist This plant was grown in England by 
Gerarde in 1597 : our supplies are derived chiefly from Zanzibar, 
Natal, &c The capsicum belongs to the Solanacece, the Order 
which includes the ^otaXo, the tomato, and to\ia.cco. 



i86 FENNEL. 

Horse-radish. 
French, Raifort. German, Meer Rettig, Italian, Rafano, 

Horse-radish is the root of a common European perennial 
plant {Cochkaria Armoracid)\ it has been used as a condiment in 
England from the 17 th century. It yields a pungent essential 
oil, which seems to be the same as that from black mustard. The 
poisonous roots of aconite, Aconitum Napellus^ sometimes called 
monk's-hood or wolfs-bane, have been mistaken for those of 
horse-radish.* 

Parsley. 

French, PerciL German, Petrosilie, Italian, Prezzamolo, 

Parsley is Apium Petroseltnum, a. native umbellifer of Sardinia; 
the leaves of which are used not only as a garnish, but are eaten 
fresh or dried as a flavourer. 

Mint. 

French, Menihe, German, Munze, Italian, Menta, 

Mint or Spearmint is Mentha viridis^ a pleasant aromatic 
labiate herb, used in seasoning and for boiling with green peas. 

Thyme. 
French, Thym, German, Thimian, Italian, Timo. 

Thyme is Thymus vulgaris^ a small labiate shrub of South 
Europe, not a native of England. Its odour and taste are due to 
an essential oil known in trade as origanum oil. Wild English 
thyme (2%. Serpyllum) is a different plant. 

Fennel is an umbelliferous plant, Fxniculum vulgare^ found 
wild in the countries bordering on the Mediterranean : it has a 
perennial root stalk, while the Indian plant is an annual. The 
fruits of fennel (commonly called seeds), as well as the leaves, 
contain a peculiar aromatic essential oil, which is also found in 

* Compare the specimens of the roots of these two plants as shown m the 
coUectioiL 



CONDIMENTS. 187 

anise-seeds. Chopped fennel leaves are used in the melted butter 
eaten with mackerel : the fruits give flavour to certain cordials. 

Marjoram {Origanum vulgare), Sweet Marjoram {O, Ma- 
jor ana) y Sweet Basil {Ocymum basilicum\ and Sage (Salvia 
officinalis), are all labiate plants, and are known as pot-herbs. 
Their aromatic leaves are used either fresh or dried for seasoning 
food. 

Cumin is an umbelliferous plant {Cuminum Cyminuni) which 
has been known from very early times. Its fruits contain an 
essential oil of very strong odour and taste : they are used in the 
preparation of some spirits and cordials, and form a constituent 
of curry-powder. Dutch cheese is sometimes flavoured with 
cumin. 

Turmeric is the root-stock of Curcuma longa. It is used as a 
yellow dye as well as a condiment : it is one of the chief ingre- 
dients of curry-powder. Our supplies come mainly from Bengal 
and Pegu — the Cochin turmeric is from another species of Cur- 
cuma. The odour of turmeric is due to an essential oil, present 
to the extent of i per cent Curcumin is the yellow colouring 
matter. 

Chervil {Anthriscus Cerefolium) is an umbelliferous plant, 
the young leaves of which are used in France for flavouring soups 
and salads. 

Dill is an umbelliferous plant {Anethum graveolens) resembling 
fennel Its fruits are aromatic, but it is little used for culinary 
purposes in Europe. 

Anise, or Pimpinella Anisum, is a native of Asia Minor, 
Egypt, &c. : it is cultivated in many parts of South Europe. The 
fruits contain about 2 per cent, of an essential oil, which is used 
in flavouring cordials. 

Capers are the flower-buds, and sometimes the unripe fruits 
of Capparis spinosa, a wall plant of South Europe. Our supplies 
are chiefly from Italy and France. Capers are prepared ^SLd ^^^- 
served by pickling them in vinegar. A cototcvoiv ?»\3^^>Cv\:\\.^ '^'^sc 



i88 GINGER. 

them is found in the unripe fruits of the garden nasturtium 
{TropcBolum niajus)\ other substitutes are also in use on the 
Continent 

Garlic is a native of Southern Europe and is closely related 
to the onion, but has a much stronger taste. Its bulb consists of 
ten or twelve parts called " cloves." It is Allium sativum. It is 
used in sauces. 

Shallot, or Eschalote {Allium ascolonicum), is a native of 
Palestine. Its cloves are milder than those of onions : it is used 
in pickles, salads, and seasoning, and to flavour vinegar. 

Chives (^Allium Scluenqprasum) are a native of Britain. They 
form a favourite addition to soups in Scotland. 

Tarragon is Artemisia Dracunculus, one of the Composite^, 
It is closely related to the well-known aromatic plants, common 
wormwood and southernwood; but, unlike them, its leaves are 
undivided. It is a native of Siberia, but is cultivated to some 
extent in France as an ingredient in salads and pickles, and for 
flavouring vinegar. 

Savory is of two kinds : summer savory is Satureja hortensis^ 
a most aromatic annual plant, a native of Southern Europe ; the 
other is an evergreen, S. monta?ia. They are used for sauces and 
seasoning, and admit of being dried. 

Spices. 

Spices are usually added to articles of food containing sugar, 
while condiments are eaten with meat, and generally with any 
foods which contain common salt. But it is impossible to draw 
any very distinct line between condiments and spices. Amongst 
the latter we may include — 

Case 103. Ginger is the rhizome or root-stock of Zingiber 

•officinale, a reed-like plant now grown in most hot countries : it 

has been long known and esteemed. Most of our ginger comes 

from the East and West Indies, and has been scraped. Its 

-odour is due to an essential oil, lis \iol \asX^ Vo z. ^^c>\\br resin. 



SPICES. 1 8^ 

Fresh or green ginger, consisting of the young shoots of the 
rhizome, forms, when boiled in syrup, an agreeable preserve. 

Cardamoms are the aromatic fruits of many plants belonging 
to the Ginger Order. Common cardamoms are the produce of 
Ekttaria CardamomuMy a reed-like perennial common in the 
moist mountain forests of Malabar : " Grains of Paradise " are the 
fruits of Amomum Melegueta^ an allied plant of West Africa ; they 
are used to give pungency to spirits, &c., also in veterinary medicine. 

Cinnamon consists of the true bark or liber of a small ever- 
green tree of Ceylon, Cinnamomum zeylanicum : it was known in 
very ancient times as a spice. The crop is gathered about 
May and November, the two-year-old shoots being stripped and 
slightly fermented. Cinnamon contains a fragrant essential oil. 

Cassia is the bark of a Chinese species of Cinnamomum^ while 
"Cassia buds" are the unripe fruits of the same tree. 

Sassafras is produced by Sassafras officinale^ a tree of North 
America. 

Nutmegs are the seeds of Myristica fragrans, a handsome 
evergreen tree, wild in the Banda Isles, New Guinea, &c, and 
cultivated elsewhere with some success. The long nutmeg is the 
produce oi M.fatua. The nutmeg contains about 6 per cent, of 
an aromatic and pungent essential oil. 

Mace is a covering of the nutmeg, and is termed an aril in 
botany. It contains about 4 J^ per cent, of an aromatic oil. 

Cloves are the dried calyx and flower-buds of Eugenia caryo- 
fhyllata^ an evergreen tree belonging to the Myrtle Order. Our 
supplies come from Zanzibar and the West Indies. Cloves are 
used in flavouring cordials and apple tarts and puddings. They 
contain a pungent aromatic oil in considerable quantity. 

Allspice or Pimento is a small dry berry, the fruit of Pimenta 
officinalis^ an evergreen tree of the Myrtle Order common in the 
West Indies. Pimento contains about 4 per cent, of an aromatic 
pungent oil much like that of cloves. Our supplies cotxve \* W&>j 
from Jarmica. 



ipo OIL OF LEMON. 

Caraway, or Carum Carvi, is a biennial umbelliferous plant 
something like a carrot It is cultivated to some extent in Kent 
and Sussex ; much is imported from Holland. An acre )delds 
from four to eight hundredweight of tlie fruits. They contain an 
•essential oil, and are used to flavour cakes, confectionery, biscuits, 
and cordials. 

Peppermint is a labiate plant {Mentha Piperita). It is grown 
in Surrey and Cambridgeshire, and is common, as a wild plant, 
in many parts of England. The whole plant, especially just 
before flowering, is rich in an essential oil of aromatic and even 
burning taste, which is used to flavour sweetmeats and cordials. 

Coriander {Coriandrum sativum) is an umbelliferous plant of 
the south of Europe, and is cultivated largely in France. The 
fruits of this plant contain a small quantity of essential oil : they 
are used in flavouring cordials. 

Angelica (Archangelica officinalis) is an umbelliferous plant 
common in most parts of Europe. Its roots, though of somewhat 
medicinal taste, are used as food in Norway and Lapland ; the 
stems, boiled in sirup, yield a pleasant sweetmeat ; the fruits are 
used in flavouring some cordials, as Chartreuse. 

Flavourers. 

Some artificial and some natural products of strong taste and 
smell are included in this group of flavourers. In many instances 
flavourers are prepared by the* distillation of seeds, fruits, &c., 
when the fragrant essential oil comes over and is condensed. 
Such essential oils dissolved in spirit of wine constitute the 
extracts or flavouring essences so much used in cookery. But 
the compound ethers, many of which may be prepared artificially, 
are now used for similar purposes. The following flavourers are 
in common use : — 

Case 103. I. Essential Oil of Lemon, and of other fruits of the 
genus Citrusy as the orange and the citron. These oils occur in 
the rind of the fruits, wYience lYve^ laa:^ \i^ T^moved not only by 
distillation but by pressure. TYve iT^^\v ^^^ ol >^«t's>^ lT>i\\&\^NiSR^ 



VANILLA. 191 

for flavouring, but it may be preserved by careful drying. It is 
also eaten after having been boiled in sirup as candied peel, 
and in several other forms. 

Case 104. 2. Oil of Bitter Almonds is obtained — ^by means of 
maceration in water, and subsequent distillation — from the bitter 
almond, a variety of Amygdalus communis. The same essential oil 
may be got from peach and plum kernels and from laurel leaves. 
The crude oil, as obtained by distillation, always contains prussic 
acid in considerable quantity. This most poisonous substance 
ought always to be removed from the bitter-almond flavouring 
used in cookery. No preparation of bitter almonds, no essence 
of " ratafia " or peach-kernels, should be employed in the kitchen 
unless it is guaranteed to be free from prussic acid. Cakes, 
custards, and blancmange are flavoured with oil of bitter almonds. 
The odour and taste of this oil are approached in two artificial 
products — nitrobenzol and benzonitriL Nitrobenzol, which is 
incorrectly termed artificial oil of bitter almonds, and sometimes 
essence of mirbane, is obtained by acting upon benzol (a liquid 
constituent of coal-tar) with nitric acid. It is poisonous, and has 
a much less agreeable odour and taste than the true oil. Benzo- 
nitril is obtained by the distillation of hippuric acid, a substance 
contained in the urine of horses and oxen. 

Case 104. 3. Vanilla. — The flavourer known under this name 
consists of the fruits of an orchid belonging to the genus Vanilla, 
The most highly-prized sort is obtained from V, planifolia^ a plant 
indigenous to hot regions of Eastern Mexico. It was brought to 
Europe by the Spaniards.* Other species of vanilla are also 
used, but are thought to be of inferior quality. The pods of the 
various kinds of vanilla owe their rich and agreeable aroma to the 
presence of a white crystalline substance called vanillin. This 
substance is now made artificially from another natural product — 
coniferin, which is contained in the sapwood of pines. The 

• Specimens oi vaniJia from the French coVomes oi "^bsxvviTL V^x&tQS>»KR.^ 
there in 181;), Gmdaloupe, and Guiana, are placed m CsiS^ \ov 



192 SAFFRON. 

artificial vanillin is oot a mere imitation of the natural substance, 
but is absolutely identical with it. Vanilla is used to flavour 
cocoa, chocolate, ices, biscuits, creams, and even coffee and tea. 

Case X04. 4. Artificial Fruit Essences, — ^Although there are few 
cases in which the exact nature of the delicate flavours of fruit 
has been ascertained, yet there can be little doubt that the dis- 
covery has been made in some instances. Even were this not so, 
still there are now known many artificial products, chiefly the 
so-called compound ethers, which resemble very closely indeed in 
taste and smell the natural flavours of certain fruits. One of tiie 
most extensively used of all these is the acetate of amyl, a com- 
pound ether which may be regarded as derived from vinegar and 
potato oil by the removal of the elements of water. The so-called 
essence of Jargonelle pears is a spirituous solution of the acetate 
of amyl : it is employed in flavouring confectionery, especially 
pear-drops. Unfortunately it is used too freely, and is seldom 
sufficiently pure for this purpose. Other compound ethers impart 
the flavour of other fhiits to articles of confectionery, liqueurs, 
and foods. Apple oil is chiefly valerate of amyl, pineapple oil is 
butyrate of ethyl and butyrate of propyl, and grape or cognac oil 
is a mixture of several compound artificial ethers. Many other 
flavourers of similar character have been artificially prepared: 
they are much used by the makers of cheap confectionery. 

There are some natural products used as spices, condiments, 
or flavourers, which we have not described; indeed, a volume 
would be required for the adequate treatment of this subject, for 
the details connected with these products are very numerous. 
Take one example. Saffron has long been used for colouring 
and flavouring confectionery, fancy biscuits, &c. The plant which 
yields it, the Crocus sativus, was grown in the reign of Edward IIL 
The part used consists of the stigmas only of the flower, and the 
colouring substance they contain is so intense that one grain of 
the commercial saffron will colour yellow ten gallons of water* 
Our supplies of saffron novr come c\{\e^^ feomS^^ia and France, 



VINEGAR AND ACIDS. 193 

but the plant was once largely grown in England between Saffron 
Walden and Cambridge. To give similar details as to other 
flavourers would obviously occupy an amount of space much 
greater than the importance of the subject warrants : we cannot 
therefore further dwell upon these numerous minor flavourers. 
But we may name in passing that sauces should be included 
here, for they usually contain mixtures of several condiments 
dissolved in weak vinegar and other liquids, and that there 
are some materials of animal origin used in part for the same 
purposes. 

Case 94. Of these latter the extract of meat invented by Liebig 
is the most important. It contains nitrogenous matters, such as 
creatine, with large quantities of potash salts — in fact, all the 
constituents of flesh which can be dissolved by hot water. Still, 
it is a stimulant and flavourer chiefly, and cannot be regarded as 
a substantive food. 



§ 3. — ^Vinegar, Pickles, and Acids. 

Case 108. There are several acids in most vegetable products. 
They exist partly in the form of salts, and partly in the free state. 
The most common and most important vegetable acids are 
these four ; Citric Acid, Tartaric Acid, Malic Acid, and Oxalic 
Acid. To these must be added a fifth acid, the Acetic ; which, 
however, is mainly produced artificially by the change or oxida- 
tion of alcohol or even of sugar, but which occurs also to a 
small extent in some fruits, especially when they are over-ripe or 
decaying. 

All the acids probably act in the processes of digestion and 
nutrition in much the same way. They exert a solvent action 
upon many of the nutrients, but their own nutritive power is very 
small, for they cannot be consumed in suSideoX. Q^^xi>L\\:^ \a ^^ 



194 ACIDS. 

out aiiy appreciable amount of heat or force. More than this, 
they are ahready highly oxidized products, and require but a small 
further addition of oxygen to be converted into the final products 
of oxidation — carbonic acid and water : this is especially the case 
with oxalic acid. 

Case io8. CiTRic AciD and its salts — the citrates — are particu- 
larly abundant in the fruits of some plants of the orange tribe, 
more particularly in the lemon. From this fruit the crystallised 
citric acid of commerce is separated on a large scale. The 
expressed juice is boiled down, and imported into this country 
in a concentrated form. Citric acid is an acid of agreeable taste 
and quite wholesome, even when taken in rather large quantities. 
It is found in the free state in many unripe English fruits, as 
gooseberries; but it is also present in the form of citrates of 
potash, lime, and other bases. 

Case 108. Tartaric Acid is the characteristic acid of grapes. 
It occurs mainly in the form of the acid tartrate of potash. This 
substance is the main constituent of argol^ the crust which is 
deposited from wine. When purified, argol yields tartar, or cream 
of tartar, which is identical with the acid tartrate of potash. 
Tartaric acid is a solid crystalline substance, which, like citric 
acid, is easily soluble in water. It is a less pleasant and whole- 
some acid than citric acid. 

Malic Acid is present in many fruits, especially in those of 
the Rose Order. It may be extracted from apples and pears. 

Oxalic Acid, more particularly in the form of the acid-oxalate 
of potash, is present in the common sorrel {Rutnex acetosa\ in the 
wood sorrel {Oxaiis acetosella\ in the garden rhubarb {Rheum 
rhaponticum), and in many other plants. It is the least wholesome 
of all the acids we have named ; indeed, it acts, even in moderate 
doses, as an irritant poison. 

Acetic Acid is best known in the form of vinegar, which is a 

weak mixture of real acetic acid and water, usually flavoured with 

burnt sugar, or malt extract, ot some coii'^\icieTL\si\\v<^'£<i^^s. \axx3jgon 



VINEGAR. 195 

■or chillies. Four kinds or varieties of vinegar are commonly 
used in Europe. These are — r, Malt Vinegar ; 2, Wine Vinegar ; 
3, Wood Vinegar ; 4, Vinegar from starch, sugar, &c. The acid 
in all of these products is identical, but there are evident dif- 
ferences in flavour and odour between the different sorts. It is 
usual, however, by the addition of colouring matter and flavouring 
essences, to render the detection of the sources of the inferior 
vinegars very difficult. All the varieties of vinegar, save that 
obtained by means of the destructive distillation of wood, are 
formed by the oxidation of alcohol. This compound, however 
formed, whether by the direct fermentation of sugar or from 
starchy materials, may be readily oxidized, gaining one additional 
proportion of oxygen and losing two proportions of hydrogen. 
The oxidation of weak alcohol into acetic acid may be accom- 
plished by simple exposure of the liquid to warm air, but the 
change is usually accompanied and greatly aided by the presence 
of a vegetable organism such as yeast and the so-called vinegar- 
plant. 

Grood vinegar contains 5 per cent of real or glacial acetic 
acid. Sulphuric acid is sometimes found in it to a larger extent 
than allowed by law, which is i part in 1,000. A solution of 
chloride of barium produces a more or less dense white precipitate 
only in vinegar containing sulphuric acid. 

Case 108. Vinegar is extensively used not only as a condiment 
in sauces and salads, but for the preparation of a great variety of 
pickles. The vegetables thus preserved in vinegar include the 
greater number of those which* we have described in the second 
part of this volume. Among them we may name unripe walnuts, 
onions, cauUflowers, gherkins, French beans,, red cabbage, capsi- 
cums, samphire, mushrooms, and small unripe maize-cobs. Care 
should be taken that pickles are free from copper, a poisonous 
metal which sometimes finds its way into the vinegar through the 
solvent action of that acid upon the vessels u^ed m Y^^-^-sfsssj^ 

pickles, 

o 'J. 



196 TEA. 

§ 4. — Tea, Coffee, and Cocoa, 

The group of food-adjuncts which we are now about to study 
is distinguished from all the preceding groups by the presence of 
a peculiar class of active principles called alkaloids. These con- • 
tain the element nitrogen, which is absent from nearly all the 
essential oils, from all the kinds of alcohol, and from all the acids 
which occur in articles of food. Many of these alkaloids act 
powerfully on the nervous system, generally as sedatives and 
narcotics. Some of them are not only medicinal, but, even in 
small doses, actually poisonous. But the action of tea, coffee, 
and of many other food-adjuncts which owe their properties mainly 
to the presence of certain alkaloids, is often greatly modified by 
the other constituents of these food-adjuncts. Tea, for instance, 
contains a fragrant essential oil which is stimulating; while the 
presence of tannin, an astringent substance, further modifies the 
general result produced by the theine contained in an infusion 
of tea.* 

We will first examine into the chemistry of the ordinary 
beverages — tea, coffee, cocoa, &c, which closely resemble one 
another in the peculiarity of their active alkaloids ; afterwards a 
few notes on tobacco and opium shall be given. 

Tea. 

French, TTit. German, Thee. Italian, Ti. 

(Thea sinensis.) 

Cases X09 to 1x3. The plant which yields the tea of commerce is a 
native of Bengal : it is a shrub nearly allied to the camellia. It 
has been long grown in China, and may indeed be indigenous to 
parts bf that empire. Our supplies come mainly from China, 
but a good deal of tea is grown in British India and in Japan. 

* A fine specimen of tlieme ma.7 \ift sfeea.*\EL>Cafc ^^^^^\q\!u 



TEA. 197 

There are three varieties of the tea-plant, from each of which 
both green and black tea may be prepared. Black tea is made 
from leaves which have been allowed to ferment before drj'ing ; 
green tea from leaves which have been quickly dried However, 
large quantities of tea are still artificially coloured or faced, 
though the practice is a very deceptive one, even where the 
colouring materials used are not injurious to health. Old leaves, 
damaged leaves, and exhausted or spent leaves may be so faced 
with black-lead, indigo, Prussian blue, French chalk, or turmeric, 
that a fictitious bloom is imparted to them ; and the four last-named 
materials are used in imitating or enhancing the tint of green tea. 
Different qualities of strength and flavour in tea are due to the 
varieties of the plant, to the soil and climate, to the age of the 
leaves, and to the mode of curing and drying them. The younger 
leaves yield teas of the highest quality and the most delicate 
flavour. These kinds contain more soluble matters than the older 
leaves. Black tea contains less theine, essential oil, and tannin 
than green tea. Exhausted or spent leaves and leaves which 
have been accidentally damaged by water are often re-dried, 
gummed, and faced with colouring matters ; such teas and those 
adulterated with mineral matters and the leaves of other plants, 
are known in China as lie tea. One good test of the genuineness 
of a sample of tea consists in crushing 100 grains, and boiling it 
with water till nothing more is thus extracted. When this liquor 
is boiled down to dryness, the residue of fixed soluble matters 
thus separated should weigh about 35 grains, certainly not less 
than 26, for in the latter event the sample consists of or contains 
damaged, spent, or old leaves.* 



* Dried specimens of varieties of the tea-plants cultivated in Assam, with 
nmnerous samples of prepared teas from Brazil, China, East Indies, Java, 
Formosa, Trinidad, Victoria (Australia), are shown in Cases 109 to 113. 
Samples of broken tea, consolidated by hydraulic pressure, are also shown, 
together with similar preparations of tea and coffee, to which milk and sug^r 
have been added. 



In xoo parts. 


lax lb. 




oz. gr. 


8-0 ... 


I 122 


2-5 ... 


o 175 


i4'o 


2 105 


0-4 ... 


28 


i5'o 


2 175 


54*4 .-. 


8 308 


57 •.. 


399 



198 COFFEE. 

Good average black tea, as imported, may be fairly represented 
by the following figures : — 



Water 

Theine 

Tannin 

Essential oil - -. - 

Minor extractives - . - - 

Insoluble organic matter - 

Mineral matter - - - - - 

Although the infusion of tea has little actual nutritive value, 
it increases respiratory action and excites the brain to greater 
activity. The stimulating effects of tea upon the nervous system 
are due to the essential oil and the theine : the tannin is an 
astringent. It has been estimated that half the hmnan race now 
use tea either habitually or occasionally. 

Coffee. 

French, Cafe, German, Kaffee. Italian, Caffe, 

t,(Coffea Arabtca,) 

The shrub or small tree which yields the seed coffee is 
a native of Abyssinia. This plant belongs to the Rubiacese, an 
extensive order, including the Peruvian bark, ipecacuanha, and 
madder plants. Coffee is now grown throughout the tropics. 
Our principal supplies* come from Ceylon, but Java, the West 
Indies, Brazil, and Central America produce large quantities. 

* Specimens of raw coffee berries, and branches of the coffee tree, are 
shown in Cases 114 and 115, together with samples of roasted coffee, coffee 
essence, and substitutes for and adulterants of genuine coffee. The specimens 
ot coffee berries come from the following countries : Yemen (Mocha) ; 
Colombo, and other parts of Ceylon ; Neilgherry Hills, Bombay ; Cape Verde 
Islands, St. Thomas, Madeira, Costa Rica, Madras, Mozambique, Angola, 
Bahia, Venezuela, Java, Sandwich Islands; and the French Colonies of 
Reunion, Martinique, Guiana, Guadeloupe, Gaboon, Senegal, Tahiti, 
Pondicherry, and Mayotte. 



COFFEE. 199 

It appears that more than one distinct species of coffee plant 
yields the berries met with in commerce, and that the Coffea liberica 
is superior to the ordinary kind or variety. Originally the coffee 
plant was introduced into Arabia in the fifteenth century, while it 
was not till the year 1652 that the first coffee-shop was opened 
in London. 

The fruit of the coffee tree, which presents a superficial 
resemblance to a red cherry, contains two seeds. The soft pulp 
and the parchment-like covering of the seed having been removed, 
the imported coffee " beans," as they are now called, are roasted. 
Thus moisture is driven off and a fragrant oil produced, to a mere 
trace of which the strong aroma of roasted coffee is due. 

Many cheap vegetable matters, as acorns and chicory and 
parsnip roots, are used, when roasted, to adulterate ground coffee. 

Caie 114. Roasted coffee generally contains — 

In 100 parts. In z lb. 

oz. gr. 

Water 5*o ... o 350 

Albuminoids 15*0 ... 2 175 

Theine (Caffeine) o*6 ... o 42 

Tannin 4*0 ... o 280 

Minor extractives 34*4... 5 220 

Cellulose 38*4 ... 6 ^-t^ 

Mineral matter - 4*6... o 322 

Coffee owes its stimulant effect on the circulatory and nervous 
systems to the theine and aromatic oil present. In order that 
coffee may be enjoyed in perfection, not only must it be free from 
admixture with the cheap and miserable adulterants commonly 
stated to improve its taste, but it must be freshly roasted to 
the right extent, freshly groimd, and so made into a beverage that 
its soluble constituents are extracted without its aroma being 
dissipated. 

Cocoa. 

{Theobroma Cacao.) 

The chocolate tree occurs both wVld audi cxiXJcvn^X.^^ va. "^^ 



200 COCOA. 

northern parts of South America, and also in Central America, as 
far north as Mexico. It is grown chiefly in Brazil, Guiana, and 
Trinidad. There are four species of Theobroma known. 

A single fruit of this tree contains many seeds closely packed 
in a little pulp. The cleaned cocoa seeds, after drying, roasting, 
and winnowing from their husks, are broken into coarse fragments 
known as nibs. These, after long boiling in water and removal of 
the floating cocoa-butter, yield a light beverage, milder in its 
action upon the respiratory and nervous system than tea or coffee. 

Case ii6. Good cocoa-nibs contain — 



Water - 
Albuminoids - 
Fat - 

Theobromine - 
Cacao-red 
Gum, &c. 

Cellulose and lignose 
Mineral matter - 



Theobromine is the active principle of cocoa ; the taste and 
aroma of cocoa are due mainly to an essential oil and to tannin. 
For general use cocoa is a milder and less stimulating beverage 
than tea or coflee. 

Prepared Cocoa. 

Most of the cocoa consumed in Europe is prepared for use 
by admixture with other substances, or by removing part of the 
fat or " cocoa-butter." Cocoa-nibs, if simply ground, would yield 
a rich but heavy food, not a beverage. It may, indeed, be shown 
that 100 parts of cocoa-nibs contain heat-givers equivalent to 
132 parts of starch, while the flesh-formers present amount to no 
less than 17 parts — the ratio of the latter to the former being thus 
as I to 8. One pound of cocoa-nibs might in fact produce as 
much as 2^ oz, of the dry n\tTogeiiou"s s\Ai^Va.xv.Qfc oil \xw&cl^. 



In xoo parts. 


In 


lib. 




oz. 


gr. 


S'O ... 





350 


17*0 


2 


315 


51*0 


8 


70 


1*5 ... 





105 


3'o ... 





210 


io*9 


I 


326 


80 ... 


I 


122 


3-6 ... 





252 



PARA G UA Y TEA. 201 

The chief forms of prepared cocoa are — 

Case 116. Soluble Cocoa, Mixtures of ground cocoa, with starch, 
&c., are called soluble cocoa. With boiling water a thick 
mucilage is produced, in which the finely-ground cocoa remains 
suspended — it does not dissolve. 

Chocolate is cocoa ground up with sugar and flavoured with 
vanilla, sometimes with bitter almonds as well, or with cinnamon 
and other spices ; it generally contains some starch or flour. 

Flake and Rock Cocoa are made from the whole seed, nib and 
husk being ground together to a paste. 

Pressed Cocoa (such as Van Houten's) is prepared from cocoa- 
nibs — 2i small proportion of the cocoa-butter having been pre- 
viously expressed so as to leave about 33 per cent 

Mat£, or Paraguay Tea, 
{Ilex Paraguay ensis. ) 

Case 113. In Paraguay, North Corrientes, Chaco, and South 
Brazil, the leaves of a small tree are used just in the same way 
that tea is employed in China, India, and Japan. The infusion 
of these leaves contains tannin, an aromatic oil, and some theine. 
Indeed, it is a singular and most instructive fact that the chief 
characteristic constituent of tea, coffee, mate, guarana-bread, and 
the African kola nuts, is identical — the alkaloid theine or caffeine. 
Even cocoa contains a very nearly-related substance — theobro- 
mine. Naturally, all these plants have come into general use 
amongst the inhabitants of the countries where they flourish ; and 
now it is ascertained that their chief physiological properties 
depend upon the presence of a substance which is identical in 
five of them, and closely allied in the sixth. 

Mat^ is prepared by drying, and then gently roasting the 
leaves, still attached to their stems and branches : the whole tte^ 
being often cut doivn for this purpose. 'WYv^n \lc\& ^t^\xs% ^xvSs. 



202 GUAR ANA-BREAD. 

roasting have rendered the leaf brittle, and developed the aromatic 
oil which gives the peculiar flavour and odour to mat^, then the 
branches are removed to large rough mortars, which are merely 
pits dug in the ground, where it is beaten and bruised till the 
leaves are reduced to fragments. The mat^, after sorting, is next 
placed in fresh bullock-skins, well rammed, !ind placed in the sun 
to dry. 

The composition of mate' is somewhat variable. Several sorts 
are known in the South American markets : caa-cuys, the head of 
the leaf; caa-miri, the leaf torn from its mid-rib and veins with- 
out roasting ; and caa-guaza, or yerva de palos of the Spaniards, 
which contains the whole leaf with leaf-stalks and small branches 
roasted. In consequence of these different qualities, and the 
crude mode of preparation in general use, it is found that the 
quantity of mineral matter in matd is twice as great in some 
samples as in others. The average amount of tannin may be set 
down as 1 6 per cent., while the theine is present to the extent of 
about I '3 per cent. 

Mat^ does not yield a wholesome beverage fit for habitual 
use. It acts upon the nervous system mainly, but it affects the 
digestive tract also, and often injuriously. The habitual use of 
hot, strong infusions of matd is very prejudicial to the general 
health, although the occasional employment of this food-adjunct 
after great fatigue is refreshing and restorative. But confirmed 
mate-drinkers, like opium-eaters, prefer to give up their food 
rather than their daily allowance of matd. 

Mate is prepared for drinking by pouring boiling water upon 
a teaspoonful of the powdered leaves in a cup or calabash, 
adding a little sugar, and sucking up the infusion through a 
small tube or " bombilla." 

GuARANA-BREAD is another substitute for tea. It is used 

extensively in Brazil and other parts of South America. It is 

prepared from the seeds of a small climbing plant (Faullinia 

Si^h7is), The seeds are loasled, ^OMtvd, mixed with a little 



HERB TEAS, 205 

water, and pressed into sausage-like forms. Pieces broken from 
one of these rolls have merely to be infused in cold water to 
form a refreshing and grateful beverage, said also to be a valuable 
remedy in sick-headache. It contains no less than 5 per cent of 
theine. 

Case 124. Coca, the leaves of Erythroxylon Coca, may perhaps 
be appropriately named in this section. This plant, which is 
used as a stimulant in Peru, contains an alkaloid called cocaine. 
It is believed to possess the power of sustaining strength and 
endurance during unusual bodily exertion. This plant, the coca,, 
is perfectly distinct from the Cocos nucifera and the Theobroma Cacao, 

Case 113. Under the designation of " tea substitutes " we may 
group many vegetable products which are, or have been, used in 
different parts of the world. With the exception of the kola-nut 
of Central Africa, none of these minor tea-substitutes are known 
to contain the same alkaloid as tea, coffee, and matd. We name 
a few of the different plants yielding such herb teas.* 

Swiss tea, from several Alpine plants ; 

Bosjes and Boer tea ( Cliffortia ilicifolia and Cyclopia vogelit) ; 

Hottentot tea (Helichrysum serpyilifolium) \ 

Mountain tea (fiaultJieria procumbens) \ 

Lime tea (flowers and leaves of Tilia europcea) ; 

Labrador tea {Ledum palustre and Z. latifolium) 3 

Kola tea (nuts of Cola acumitiata) ; 

Appalachian tea {Fnrns glaber) ; 

Corossal tea {Anona muricata) ; 

Sumatra tea (leaves of Cojia arabica), 

§ 5. — Tobacco and Opium. 
Amongst the food-adjuncts we give the last and lowest place 

* Samples of the teas here named and of many other kinds are shown in. 
Case 113. The specimens include New Jersey tea, Heidelberg tea, Siderita 
tea from Greece, Faham tea of Mauritius, and many substances used as tea in 
the French colonies of Reunion, Guiana, Guadaloupe, Gaboow^ MasNxcCva^^^ 
and St Pierre. 



204 TOBACCO. 

to tobacco and opium. If there be difficulty in fixing the exact 
position which we should assign to tea or to spices, such difficulty 
is more decided still in the case of tobacca But although we 
cannot regard tobacco as a true food, we should remember that 
there are many circumstances under which really nutritious sub- 
stances cease to be nutritious. The work done by the various 
nutrients which we have considered is not always the same, for it 
varies with the quantities consumed, and the modes in which they 
are used. Thus a nutrient taken in excess may become, in part, 
at least, a food-adjunct; while a food-adjunct may become a 
medicine or even a poison. Water itself aiffords a good illustration 
of some of these points. A due daily supply of it is necessary 
as a nutrient ; but a considerable excess of it will act medicinally, 
and it becomes hurtful and in some sense poisonous when still 
larger quantities are consumed. And we see that while all the 
true nutrients are equally necessary to the human body, provided 
that they are given in due proportion and quantity, the food- 
adjuncts have very variable values. Alcoholic liquors afford 
a characteristic instance of this fact. Taken in limited quantity, 
they may justly be regarded as belonging to that section of the 
food-adjuncts which perhaps best deserves the name of accessory- 
food. But it is too easy to pass this limit, and to change the 
office performed by alcohol into that of a poison. Tobacco and 
opium must be ranked either as medicines or poisons. Tobacco 
is the less baneful of the two, but its excessive use is followed by 
a disordered state of the nervous system, and may lead to 
dangerous and even fatal diseases. 

Tobacco. 

French, Tabac. German, Tabak. Italian, Tabaccho, 
{Nicotiana Tabacum, and other species.) 

This plant furnishes the most generally used of all the 

narcotics. A native of America, it was introduced thence into 

many other parts of the wotVd, aiid\i3j&\i^etv oiltivated in Europe 



TOBACCO. 205 

for more than three centuries. Sir Walter Raleigh much promoted 
its use in England. In the year 1872 nearly 20,400 tons of 
unmanufactured tobacco were imported into this country, half of 
this quantity being from the United States of America. The 
duty paid on the tobacco for home consumption amounted to 
;^6,694,ooo in the above-named year. 

It appears that there are several species of plants which yield 
the tobacco of commerce, although they are all included in the 
genus Nicotiana, The most abundant sort is furnished by 
N, Tabacum; Nl rustica is said to yield the East Indian tobacco, 
as well as Latakia and Turkish ; while N. persica is the tobacco of 
Shiraz. Other species are N. quadrivalvis, N. muitivalvis, and 
iV. repanda. But the distinctions between these plants, and the 
several sorts of prepared tobaccos which they are assumed to 
furnish, are not yet accurately known. 

Case 1x7. The composition of dried tobacco leaves varies 
greatly with the conditions of their growth, as well as with the sort 
of plant grown. The mineral matter is considerable (13 to 2S 
per cent.) and includes much nitre, the presence of which gives 
to the dry leaf its peculiar property of slowly smouldering away 
with slight deflagrations, like amadou or tinder. The most 
important principle or constituent of tobacco is, however, the 
nicotine^ 2l nitrogenous substance of the group of the alkaloids. 
This nicotine has a very powerful action upon the nervous system, 
being a narcotic, like the morphine, narcotine, &c, found in 
opium. Some of the more delicate tobaccos of Havannah contain 
less than 2 per cent, of nicotine; the stronger tobaccos, as 
Virginian shag, contain 6 per cent. As much as 10 per cent, has 
been found in some samples grown in Europe. When the 
tobacco is burnt in the operation of smoking, the nicotine is in 
great part destroyed, other volatile alkaloids (picoline, &c) being 
produced from it. These are contained in the smoke, are liquid, 
like nicotine, and are also poisonous. The average amount of 
water in commercial tobacco is 13 pet cent. 



2o6 OPIUM. 

The preparation of tobacco leaves for use by drying, fermen- 
tation, and other processes, alters very much their natural 
character and flavour. Sometimes various " liquors " and " spices " 
or " pickles " are used in this treatment of the leaves, different 
flavours being developed thereby. Snuff is prepared chiefly from 
the stalks and ribs of the tobacco leaf.* 

Opium. 

Case 124. Opium is the dried latex or milky juice of the opium- 
poppy (Papaver somntferum). It is procured by making cuts in 
her unripe capsule, and collecting the juice Which exudes. The 
half-dried juice is moulded into small masses, and then finally 
covered with leaves of different plants, or with thin protective 
coverings of other materials, such as mica. The opium-poppy is 
extensively grown in Egypt, Asia Minor, Persia, Algeria, and the 
East Indies. The large Chinese demand for opium is supplied 
mainly from British India; in the European market the best 
opium (known as Turkey or Smyrna opium) is the produce of 
Asia Minor. 

Opium contains a large number of different alkaloids or active 
principles, fifteen of these having been already described. The 
most important of these constituents is morphine, to which alka- 
loid most of the characteristic properties of opium are due. The 
quantities of morphine present in different samples of opium differ 
much: Smyrna opium sometimes contains as much as 14 and 
sometimes less than 7 per cent. Most of the alkaloids of opium 
are poisonous : thebaine is the most virulent 

Opium is very valuable as a medicine, acting in small doses 

* Samples of tobacco in the raw and manufactured state, including snuff, 
cigars, cigarettes, negrohead, cavendish, &c., are shown in Cases 117 to 122. 
The samples are from the following countries : Brazil, Corsica, France, French 
Colonies, Germany, Greece, Havannah, Hungary, East Indies, Java, Kurdistan, 
New South Wales, Queensland, Sweden, SMraz, Victoria, and United States 
of America, 



OPIUM. 2C7 

as a sedative and anodyne, alleviating pains, and producing a 
quiet sleep. Wlien smoked, as in China and many other parts of 
the world, it is generally consumed with tobacco or some other 
leaf in a pipe.* Indeed, many of the Chinese tobaccos contain 
opium. It produces a peculiar soothing effect, but the habitual 
use of opium is most hurtful to mind as well as body. After all it 
is doubtful whether opium should find a place in a food-collection. 
The same observation applies also to hemp. 



* Chinese opium, opium-pipes, and prepared tobaccos are shown in 
Case 139 (see National Foods). 



2o8 FOOD-EQUIVALENTS. 



PART V.-OF DIET AND DIETARIES. 



The work and offices performed by human food have been 
already discussed in the First Part of this hand-book. What we 
propose to describe in the few pages which remain at our dis- 
posal is the nature of various actual dietaries. But we will first 
look at the relative values of different constituents and articles of 
food before we pass on to consider how these food-materials are 
actually employed in the daily rations of individuals, of groups of 
persons engaged in similar occupations, and of nations. 



§ I. — Food-equivalents. 

As several different kinds of compound nutrients are necessary 
to sustain life and activity, to calculate the amount of carbon and 
the amount of nitrogen, &c, in a day's ration will not alone 
suffice to show the dietetic value of that ration. We must first of 
all be sure that the carbon and the nitrogen are present in such 
forms as are practically available for nutrition. This being the 
case, we may assume that about 75 per cent of the fat present in 
a dietary is carbon ; 42 per cent, of the other heat-givers, and 
5j per cent, of the flesh-formers, also consisting of the same 
element If we take the hydio^eti ol ^}\ xJcvs.'s*^ \s»ta\ftX!Lts into 



CARBON IN A DAY'S FOOD. 2cp 

account, and calculate it into its equivalent quantity (so far as 
heat-giving power is concerned) of carbon, we shall find that all 
the above figures must be increased. It will not lead us into 
serious error if we assume that hydrogen is equivalent to thrice 
its weight of carbon. Thus we may calculate the weight of carbon 
or its equivalent in any given daily allowance of food of which 
the composition is known. As the nitrogenous nutrients contain 
on an average nearly i6 per cent of nitrogen, the quantity of this 
element present in a day's ration may also be ascertained without 
diflftculty. Now, an adult man weighing 154 lb. will require — ^under 
ordinary conditions of living, and if performing a fair amount of 
work and taking moderate exercise — something like the following 
amounts per diem : — 

Of carbon .... 4,900 grains. 

Of nitrogen .... 300 „ 

These, at least, are round numbers easily remembered and useful 
for our present purpose — ^the calculation of food-equivalents ; that 
is, the weights of different kinds of* food which can furnish in an 
available form the above amounts of carbon and of nitrogen. 

Case 125. The following table shows approximately the quantities 
of various vegetable and animal products which would be capable 
of furnishing the supply of carbon requisite for one day : — 

lb. oz. 

1. Bacon 10 

2. Scotch oatmeal '9 

3. Ripe dry peas • - i 10 

4. Cleaned rice -Ill 

5. Gloucester cheese i 1 1 

6. Wheaten flour I 13 

7. Wheaten bread 28 

8. Eggs, mixed yolks and whites - • • -53 

9. Potatoes 6 6 

10. Lean of beef 6 6 

11. Cows* milk 8 ii 

12. White turnips 10 ^ 



2IO FOOD AS A FORCE-PRODUCER. 

The necessary nitrogen for one day would be furnished by — 

lb. oz. 

1. Gloucester cheese - - - - - -015 

2. Ripe dry peas -------13 

3. Scotch oatmeal iio 

4. Eggs, mixed yolks and whites - - - -20 

5. Lean of beef 21 

6. Wheaten flour 28 

7. Bacon --------34 

8. Cleaned rice 37 

9. Wheaten bread 3 13 

10. Cows* milk --------68 

11. Potatoes ---240 

12. White turnips ------- 54 4 

A glance at the preceding table will show that no one article 
of food taken alone can furnish the exact quantities, both of 
nitrogen and of carbon requisite for the day's nourishment ; cows' 
milk, however, occupies nearly the same position in both sections 
of the table. Potatoes, on the other hand, are so deficient in 
available nitrogen that nearly four times the weight of these 
tubers necessary to furnish Ijie requisite quantity of carbon must 
be eaten in order that the former element may be taken in 
sufficient amount. To bring out the full meaning of the preceding 
table it should be studied in connection with the two tables 
which we now proceed to give. 

The quantities of different articles of food requisite for a da/s 
ration, so far as the important elements, nitrogen and carbon, are 
respectively concerned, having been now discussed, we may 
proceed to consider the relative amounts of work producible from 
I lb. of different important articles of food. The following table 
contains the results furnished by some of Dr. Frankland's 
experiments : — 



Name of food. 


Tons raised 


Name of food. 


Tons raised 




I ft. high. 




X ft, high. 


Beef fat - 


- 5,649 


Oatmeal - - - 


- 2,439 


Butter 


- 4,507 


Arrowroot starch 


- 2,427 


Cheshire cheese - 


- 2,70^ 


\ 'Wi'esi'e.xi flour - 


- 2,385 



FOOD AS A FORCE-PRODUCER. 



211 



Name of food. 


Tons raised 
I ft. high. 


Name of food. 




Tons raised 
X ft. high. 


Pea meal - - - 


- 2,341 


Lean of veal 


m 


726 


Ground rice 


- 2,330 


Guinness's stout- 


- 665 


Gelatin - 


- 2,270 


Potatoes - 


- 


- 618 


Cane sugar 


- 2,077 


Whiting - 


- 


- 491 


Yolk of t^ 


- 2,651 


Bass's ale - 


m 


480 


Grape sugar 


- 2,033 


Apples 


- 


400 


Hard-boiled e:g% 


- 1,415 


Milk 


• « 


390 


Bread crumb 


• 1,333 


White of tgg 


- 


• - 357 


iLean of boiled ham - 


- 1,041 


Carrots 


- 


322 


Mackerel - - - 


- 1,000 


Cabbage * 


m 


261 


Lean of beef 


- 885 









We may here remind the reader that the greatest amount of 
work outside the body which the oxidation within the body of 
I lb. of each of the above substances could enable a man to 
perform, would be about one-fifth of the amounts mentioned in 
the above list 

The relative cost of the several quantities of the above sub- 
stances which would contain the same energy, and so be capable 
of performing the same amount of work, is given in the following 

Table op the weight and cost of various articles of food 
required to be oxidized in the body, in order to raise i40 lb. 
to the height of i0,000 feet : — 



Name of food. 






Weight in lb. 


Price per lb. 


Cost. 










s. d. 


s. 


d. 


Ground rice 


• 




1*341 


2 





2H 


Bread 


- 




2-345 


I>^ 





zYz 


Oatmeal - 


- 




1-281 


2% 





z% 


Flour 


- 




1*3" 


2% 





zH 


Pea meal - 


- 




1*335 


3X 





4K 


Potatoes - 


- 


- 


5-068 


I 





5X 


Beef fat - 


• 


- 


- 0-5S5 


10 





sVz 


Commercial grape sugar 


1*537 


3}i 





SVz 


Cod-liver oil 


- 




o*553 


I 2 





1K 


Cane sugar 


m 




1-505 


4 





syi 


Cocoa-nibs 


- 




- 0735 


I 





m 


Cheshire cheese 




1*156 


10 





ii>^ 


Apples 


- 




- 7*815 


iK 





iiH 


Cabbages - 


- 




I2'020 


I 


I 


o'/C 


Butter . 


• 




0*693 


1 e> 


1 


. oVx 

^ "i 



212 FOOD AS A FORCE-PRODUCER. 



Name of food. 


Weight in lb. 


Price 


i per lb. 


Cost. 






8. 


d. 


s. d. 


Carrots - - - 


9*685 





IK 


I 2>^ 


Hard-boiled egg? 


2 '209 





6K 


I 2}^ 


Milk 


8-02I 





5 per quart I 1% 


Arrowroot 


1*287 


I 





I 3>^ 


Mackerel - - - 


3-124 





8 


2 I 


Guinness's stout 


6^ bottles 





6 per 


botUe 3 4>^ 


Lean beef- 


3*532 


I 





3 en 


Lean veal- 


4 300 


I 





4 3K 


White of egg - 


- 8745 





6 


4 4)4 


Bass's pale ale - 


9 bottles 





6 


» 46 


Lean ham, boiled - 


3-001 


I 


6 


4 6 


Whiting - 


6-369 


I 


4 


9 4 


Isinglass - 


1*377 


16 





22 o}4 



The above table does not take the element nitrogen into 
account ; and thus many articles of food which appear the most 
economical, are quite unequal to the task of suppl)dng the whole 
needs of the body. Beef-fat, for instance, is destitute of nitrogen, 
or nearly so, while on the other hand pea-meal contains too large 
a proportion to be utilised completely were this article of food to 
be consumed alone. But a reference to preceding pages of this 
volume, especially to the data given under the analyses of the 
several foods as to the ratio of flesh-formers to heat-givers, will 
enable the reader to obtain the necessary information for the 
complete comprehension of this table; he will then be in a 
position so to adjust the proportion of the several articles of food 
to one another as to construct useful dietaries in which there 
will be no marked excess of carbon over nitrogen, or of nitrogen 
over carbon — that is, no marked excess beyond the quantities 
respectively required of each element 

In the above table the force-producing value of the fermented 
liquors named is exaggerated, for the alcohol they contain is very 
imperfectly utilised in the body. 



PUBLIC DIETARIES, 213 

§ 2. — Public Dietaries. 

The experience of governments and local authorities in the 
supply of food to persons depending upon dietaries furnished at 
the public cost, has led to very conclusive results as to the nature 
and amount of nutrients requisite for varpng amounts of work 
and for various conditions of bodily health. The dietaries of the 
army and navy, as well as of hospitals, prisons, and workhouses, 
will generally be found to correspond with the amount and 
character of the work demanded from the persons concerned. 
In the former " Inventory of the Food Collection " the following 
figures are given as representing the nitrogenous, or flesh-forming 
nutrients, and the carbon in the daily diet of soldiers, sailors, 
pensioners, and other persons subsisting on public or ascertainable 
dietaries. 

Case 126. I. The English soldier requires, both in this country 
and in India, about 5 oz. of flesh-formers in his daily food ; he 
must receive likewise 10 oz. of carbon. 

2. The English sailor receives 5 oz. of flesh-formers and 
10 oz. of carbon. 

3. The English sailor, in his salt-meat dietary, receives nearly 
6 oz. of flesh-formers daily, and 1 2 oz. of carbon. These larger 
amounts may be necessary owing to the less digestible nature of 
his food. 

4. The Dutch soldier, in war, receives daily 5 oz. of flesh- 
formers with 10^ oz. of carbon. 

5. The Dutch soldier, in peace, or in garrison, has a lower diet, 
containing only 3j^ oz. of flesh-formers and 10 oz. of carbon. 
With this diet he is below fighting condition. 

6. The French soldier, although his diet is made up with 
articles of food very different from those eaten by the English 
soldier, receives nearly the same amount of flesh-formers — 4^^ 
oz., with 12 oz. of carbon. The French soldier is thus alwa.^^ 
kept in fi^\mg condiiion. 



214 PUBLIC DIETARIES. 

7. The Royal Engineers, when occupied in the South Ken- 
sington Museum, were found to eat an amount of food contain- 
ing 4t^ oz. of flesh-formers, and 13 oz. of carbon daily. 

When the sailor or soldier retires from active work he 
naturally requires less ambunts of flesh-forming and heat-giving 
nutrients in his food. It is found, however, that the carbon 
actually consumed is but little lower under these circumstances. 
Paupers in workhouses, of whom but little labour is expected, 
require less flesh-formers and carbon than active soldiers and 
sailors and artisans. Boys 10 years of age, at school, receive 
about half the flesh-formers required by active men, and about 
three-fourths the quantity of carbon. Ladies in luxurious repose 
consume about the same amount as young schoolboys. It must 
always be remembered that flesh-formers can be, and constantly 
are, used in the human body as force -producers ; but, on the 
other hand, the heat-givers or force-producers (starch, sugar, and 
fat) cannot be applied to the formation of flesh. The dietaries of 
some of the classes of persons named in this paragraph are 
illustrated below : 

Casex27. 8. Grecuwich pensioners receive 3j4 oz. of flesh- 
formers and ID oz. of carbon in their daily rations. 

9. The Chelsea pensioners have 4 oz. of flesh-formers and 
9^ oz. of carbon. 

10. The old men of Gillespie's Hospital, Edinburgh, have 3 oz. 
of flesh-formers and 10 oz. of carbon daily. 

11. Paupers in our workhouses receive, on the average, 
Sji oz, of flesh-formers and Sj^ oz. of carbon only. 

12. The boys of Christ's Hospital in London receive 2 J^ oz. 
of flesh-formers and 7 oz. of carbon daily. 

It will be instructive to give the details of a few other dietaries 

in a somewhat different and more extended form. In the table 

which follows, we show the amounts of flesh-formers and of the 

two chief groups of heat-givers in eight dietaries of widely dif- 

ferent characters. No great degcee oi ^.ccx\\^.c:j Is attainable in 



FOOD AND HARD WORK. 215 

such tables, but the figures we have adopted will be found near 
enough to the truth for our present purpose. It may be repeated 
here that it requires about 4 oz. 1 50 gr. of albuminoids to furnish 
300 gr. of nitrogen. 

Cases 128 and 129. The daily rations of Public Dietaries will 
contain about the following quantities of — 

T.,„^ Albuminoids. Fat. c^'"^^ ^^"f*^^ 

Diet. Sugar, &c. matter. 

oz. gr. oz. gr. 



Prisoners' Punishmen ) 
(-lib. bread) - \\ 


I 


130 ... 





112 


... 


70 


... 


162 


Prisoners for seven days \ 


















{ I lb. bread and > 


I 


350 ... 





210 


... 10 


312 


... 


262 


% lb. oatmeal) - -1 


















Subsistence or famine 


2 


145 ... 





368 


... II 


302 


... 


280 


Prisoners' light labour 


3 


222 ... 


I 


138 


... 16 


318 


... I 


25 


Prisoners' hard labour 


4 


36 ... 


I 


244 


... 18 


353 


... I 


145 


Healthy adults with mo- ) 
derate exercise - -S 


4 


94 ... 


I 


174 


... II 


302 


... 


312 


















Hard-working artisans 


5 


35 ... 


2 


400 


... 22 


96 


... 


408 


Navvies, blacksmiths, \ 


















and others working > 


5 


280 ... 


2 


150 


... 20 


180 


... 


420 


very hard - - - ) 



















The above numbers illustrate the necessity for largely-increased 
quantities of nitrogenous compounds or flesh-formers when really 
heavy work has to be done. Practical experience points unmis- 
takably to this conclusion, but it is not yet clearly ascertained in 
what way these greater quantities and higher proportions of nitro- 
genous matter are utilised in the body. As the albuminoids may 
perform many functions, we are at a loss to know upon which of 
these functions there is the most decisive call during hard bodily 
labour. The notion that the nitrogenous constituents of muscle 
are extensively consumed during hard work is inexact ; but it is 
probable that the non-nitrogenous heat-givers and force-producers 
cannot do their work fully unless there be a commensurate 
increase in the amount of flesh-formers which accompany them. 
Muscles which have to be exercised or used much increase, re- 
quiring fbr that increase additional svl^^\\^^ ol ^<i^-'lQ«sNgxi 



2i6 NATIONAL FOODS. 

over and above those used for other purposes in the nutrition 
of the body. 

We have not space to discuss the dietaries of children and 
invalids, and of athletes in training, although these subjects are 
important and interesting particularly through the light which 
they derive from chemical and physiological investigations. 
Attempts have been made to prepare foods suitable for infants 
from the common bread-stuffs by converting much of their starch 
into dextrin and glucose. This has been done by heat or by the 

Case 96. action of malt. Still, there is often a deficiency of 
flesh-formers in such substitutes for mothers' milk. In the die- 
taries considered suitable for invalids, attempts have been made 
to devise food-preparations from which certain nutrients are 

Case 39. wholly cxcludcd. For diabetic patients gluten bread 
and biscuits, bran biscuits, as well as cakes made with sweet 
almonds and eggs, have been prepared. In such preparations 
both starch and sugar are partially or wholly excluded. Fluid 

Case 77. extract of meat is another article which is capable of 
being used in conjunction with the above vegetable preparations 
so as to complete the dietary of a day. This extract must not 
be confused with Liebig's Extract, which is a stimulant and 
restorative, not a nutrient or substantive food. The fluid extract 
of meat contains all the constituents of lean meat in a soluble 
condition : indeed, an artificial process of digestion has been 
already accomplished before the material is consumed as food. 

§ 3. — National Foods. 

It must not be imagined that the vegetable or animal products 
which are used as the staple articles of food in different countries 
are in all instances perfectly adapted to the needs of the 
inhabitaAts. Some at least of the national foods and dietaries 
are too bulky, and thus lead to an excessive distension of the 
stomach and abdominal viscera. Such a result may ensue, if 
twice, thrice, or four times as much as is necessary of the other 



NATIONAL FOODS. 217 

nutrients has to be eaten in order to provide the requisite quantity 
of flesh-formers. But we may often trace several elements at 
work in the construction of national dietaries. Besides the local 
peculiarities of the vegetable and animal foods which are most 
abundant and attainable, we have the influence of those instinctive 
appetites for particular articles of food, which certainly exist 
however difiicult of explanation they may be. Religious or super- 
stitious us^es are also most important factors in the result in 
many instances, although they will not always serve to explain the 
abstention from certain perfectly wholesome and nutritious foods, 
or the consumption of absolutely noxious or useless materials like 
clay. But this aspect of the subject before us, though interesting 
as a study, could not be discussed without entering into very 
voluminous details as to the curiosities of food. We may, how- 
ever, give a few illustrative examples of national foods, citing 
those which are in common use in India, China, Japan, and 
Siam. 

Cases 130 to 132. Indian Foods, These include cereal grains, 
pulse, salep, arrowroot, fungi, oils, sugar, coffee, condiments, 
spices, and narcotics. 

Cases 133 to 139. Chinese Foods, These include wines and spirits, 
oils, confectionery, preserved fruits and vegetables, dried fruits and 
grains, bamboo shoots preserved, cinnamon and cassia buds, 
tobacco, teas and flowers for scenting them, brick-tea, gelatinous 
substances, condiments and spices ; nor must we omit pipes for 
tobacco and opium smoking, chopsticks, &c. Amongst these 
products may be noted soy and an oil prepared from the soy bean ; 
tea-seed oil ; cakes not unlike some of those made by European 
confectioners; various preserved fruits and vegetables in sealed 
canisters — for in the art of thus preserving such perishable pro- 
ducts, the Chinese have long been skilful. The Chinese preserve 
some of their fruits, roots, flowers, &c., in brine or salt ; some in 
treacle, and some in sugar. Arrowroot is largely made from the 
root of a water-lily in China, in the Tae-Vioo \2Ika ^\^\xvcX^. K\$\'2fw^\. 



2i8 ANCIENT FOODS. 

other Chinese foods, we may name several kinds of sea-weed, fish- 
maws, trepang, hkhe-de-mer^ sharks' fins, and edible birds'-nests. 

Cases 140 to X43. yapanese Foods. Amongst these are wheat, rice, 
and many other cereals; gelose, a gmnmy substance prepared 
from seaweed, gelatinous in character, but free from nitrogen; 
dried and salted fish \ sea-slugs, confectionery, &c. &c. 

Cases X44, 14s. Stamesc Foods, Amongst these may be named 
various beans and seeds, ground nuts, betel nuts, sugarS, tobaccos, 
spices, dried fish, dried meat, fish-maws, edible birds*-nests, sea- 
^lugs, sharks' fins, and deer sinews. 

§ 4. — Ancient Foods. 

The tombs of Eg}^t have furnished us with specimens of 
grain and other products consumed as food by the ancient in- 
habitants. Olive oil has been found still liquid in a vase carefully 
closed up, which was recently discovered at Thebes ; but the 
statement as to wheat, from a mummy case, having germinated is 
not authenticated. The best insight into the food of Roman 
towns and times is furnished by the wonderful series of vegetable 
products discovered from time to time at Pompeii, and now for the 
most part preserved in the National Museum at Naples. This 
collection includes even loaves of bread, blackened by the separa- 
tion of their carbon, yet still retaining their shape, and inscribed 
with details of their manufacture. Were such tangible evidence 
•of the nature of ancient Roman food wanting, we should still be 
able to obtain some acquaintance with the subject from the descrip- 
tive writings which are extant, and from the pictorial representa- 
tions of articles of food which remain on the walls of the Pompeian 
houses. But even in England we find relics of Roman food in 
the bones of the pig, and in the oyster, mussel, and snail shells 
which abound near our Roman stations. Similar evidence with 
regard to other ancient European peoples is afforded by the waste 
heaj^s or kitchen middens so a\i\siidaxv\. m ^ovxi^ parts of the 



ANCIENT FOODS. 219 

Continent, in the debris of bones discovered during recent years 
in many caves once inhabited by man, and in the lake-dwellings 
of Switzerland, Savoy, and Denmark. In these last instances the 
Case 146. evidence of the use of many fruits and grains has been 
furnished by the perfect preservation of these substances. Fish- 
hooks have also been found, together with other proofs of the use 
of animal foods. One of the most productive of all the Swiss lakes 
is that of Pfaffikon, in the canton of Zurich. Here remains of 
many kinds of food were disinterred from the peat of the lake- 
dwellings of Robenhausen. These lake-dwellings were built on 
piles, covered above with planking. In the case of some of these 
structures, no evidence of the use of metals by their builders has 
been detected ; they belong to a stone age, locally anterior to 
those of bronze and iron. The food remains of these very early 
inhabitants of Europe are of high interest 







INDEX. 










PAGE 


PACK 


Acids • • 


. 193 


Beer 


. 169 


Adulteration of brej 


id . .69 


Beetroot . 




• 


• 93 


Aerated bread 


. 67,69 . 


Bilberry . 




• 


. 117 


Albumen 


. 41 


Birds'-nests, edible 






. 157 


„ in human 1 


x>dy . . 4 


Biscuits . 






. 71 


Albuminoids 


. 41 


Bitter-almond oil 




• 


. 191 


„ digesti 


on of '44 


Blackberry 


• 




. 117 


,, as fore 


e-producers 47 


Black currant 






. 116 


„ uses ol 


. . 46 


Blood . 






155 


Alcohol . 


. 169 


Bran • • 






64 


„ in wmes 


. 176 


• 

Brandy . 






180 


Allspice 


. . . 189 


Brazil-nuts 






131 


Angelica 




. 190 


Bread . 






65 


Animal foods . 




. 132 


„ adulteration c 


)f , 




69 


Anise 




. . . 187 


„ aerated 




67,69 


Apple oil 




. 192 


„ fermented . 




66, 69 


Apples , 




. 113 


,, fruit 




• 125 


Apricots 




. 120 


„ substitutes . 




. 70 


Arrowroot 




. . . 27 


,, unfermented . 




67,69 


Asses' milk 




. 135 


Brewing , 




. 172 


Australian meats . 


. 166 


Buckwheat . 
Burgundy 




. 81 
. 177 


Bacon . 


. 161 


Butchers' meat , 




. 148 


Baking powder 


. . 67 


Butter . 




• 139 


Bananas 


. 123 








Barberry 


. 117 


Cabbage • • 




. 97 


Barley • . . 


. 74 


Candle-nuts . 




. 131 


Bearbeny 


. 117 


Cane sugar 




. 29 


3eef . 


• 


. 153 


\ Ca^w^ • 


• 


• 


187 



INDEX. 



221 



Caraway 

Carbon in daily food 

Cardamons 

Carlowitz • 

Carob beans . 

Carrots , , 

Cartilage 

Casein . , 

Cassava . , . 

Cassia . . 

Caviare . • 

Celery . , 

Cellulose 

Cereals . 

Champagne . 

Cheese . 

Chervil , 

Cherries . 

Chick peas 

Chives . 

Cinnamon . 

Citrons . 

Claret . 

Cleaned rice . 

Cloves . 

Coca 

Cocoa . 

Coco-nut 

Coco-nut, double 

Coffee . 

Compounds . 

Condensed milk 

Condiments . . 

Conger eels . 

Coniferin 

Consumption of spirits 

Coriander 

Cornflour 

Cost of food . 



PAGE 

190 
209 

189 

177 

123 

91 

44 

42 
27 

189 

160 

108 

38 

57 

177 
142 

187 
118 

84 
188 
189 

125 

177 

77 
189 

203 

199 

129 

131 

198 

3 
137 
184 

159 
191 

183 
190 

27» 79 
. 211 



Crabs 

Cranberries 

Cream . 

Cress 

Cucumbers 

Cumin . 

Currants, black, red, and 



»> 



dried 



Daily food . , 

„ supply . 

,, wasce ■ • 
Dairy produce • 
Dari . 
Dates 

Deep-well water 
Dextrin . 
Diet . 
Dietaries, public 
Digestion of albuminoids 
Dika bread . 
DiU . . . 



Eggs . 
Elastin . 
Elderberries . 
Elements 

„ in human body 
Endive . 
Eschalote 



Fat . . . 

„ in foods . 

„ in human body. 
Fibrin . 

„ in human body 
Figs . . . 
Filberts . 
¥\\lex5 • • 



PAGE 

161 



"7 

136 
107 

III 

187 
white 116 
. 118 

48,208 

53 
54 

132 
80 

122 
16 
29 

213 

216 

44 
130 
187 



213 



146 

44 
117 

3 
6 

108 

188 

34 

35 

4 
42 

4 
121 



1.^ 



222 




INDEX. 










PAGB 


PAGB 


Flavourers • • 


. 190 


Inulin . 




. 27 


Flesh-formers . 




> 14 


Irish moss 




. 106 


Food and fuel compared . 




I 








„ adjuncts 




168 


Jaggary . 




• 31 


ff ancient . 




, 218 


Jak fruit . 




- 125 


„ as a force-producer 




210 


Japanese foods 




. 218 


„ Chinese. 




217 








„ classification of . 




• 9 


Lamb • 




. 153 


„ Indian • . . 




. 217 


Lead in water. 






. 21 


y, Japanese . , 




, 218 


Leaven . 






. 65 


„ national • • 




. 216 


T^emon oil 






. 190 


„ Siamese • 




. 218 


TiCntils . 






. 86 


,y uses of . 




i»55 


Lettuce . 






. 109 


French beans . 




. 85 


lignose . • 






. 38 


Frogs . . . . 




. 158 


Limes . 






. 125 


Fruits . . . . 




, 112 


Liqueurs 






. 182 


Fungi . . . . 




. 102 


Liquorice 
Liver, calves* 






. 34 
. 154 


Garlic . . • . 




. 188 


London water-supply 


. 22 


Gm . . . . 




► 179 






Gloucester cheese . 




. 144 


Macaroni 


. 65 


Gluten . . . . 




. 65 


Mace 






. 189 


Glycerides 




. 35 


Madeira . 






. 177 


Goats' milk . 




. 135 


Maize . 






. 78 


Grapes . . • . 




. 117 


Malt . 






. 170 


Gum • • • < 




. 37 


Mannite . 






. 34 


Haricots . • . 




. 8s 


Maple sugar . 


^ 




. 31 


Haemoglobin . • 


4,42 


Mares* milk 






. 135 


Heat-givers . 


. 26, 208 


Marjoram 






. 187 


Herrings 


. 159 


Meat . 






. 153 


Hickory-nuts . 


. 129 


„ fluid extract of 


. 216 


Hock . 


• 177 


„ Liebig*s extract of . 


. 193 


Honey . 


• 33 


Medlars .... 


. 115 


Hops 


. 171 


Milk .... 


. 132 


Human body, compositio 


•n of . 3 


„ adulteration of 


. 138 






Millet . 


. 79 


Iceland moss . 


. 103 


Mill products . 


. 60 


Indian foods . 


. 217 


Mineral matter in food 


. 33 


Jnosite . 


» 


• Z\ 


\ -MmV • 


% 


% 


. 186 



Mucin . 
Mushrooms 
Mustard. 
Mutton , 



National foods 
Nitrogen in daily food 
Nitrogenous matter 
Nutm^s 

Oatmeal . i 



Oil or fat in foods 
Oils and bts . 
Olive . 



Onions . 
Opium . . 
Oranges 
Organic matter in 

„ in human body 
Oswego . 
Oysters , 



Paddy . 
Pale ale , 
Palm-nuts 
Paupers' diet . 
Pea-nuts. 
Pears . 



Peas 
Pea soup 

Pensioners' diet 
Pepper , 
Feppeimint . 
Pepeb . 



Peptones 
Pickles . 

Pigs' milk 
Pike . 
Pistachio-nuts 
Phosphate of lime ii 
Plums , 
Pomegranates . 
Pork . 
Port 

Porter . 
Potash salts in food 
Potatoes. 
Potato starch . 
Poultry and game 
Preserved meats 
„ milk 
Prickly pear . 

Proof spirit . 
Ptyalin . 
Public dietaries 
Pulse . 

Radish . 

Rain water . 

Rations . 

Red currants . 

Residues of water 

Rhubarb 

Rice 

River water , 

Roots and tubers 

Rye . . 



SafGron . , , . , v^ 



224 


INDEX. 






PAGB 




PAGB 


Sailors' diet • • • 


. 213 


Surface wells • • • . 


► 15 


Salads . . • • 


. 106 


Sweetbread . 


. 154 


Salep . • • • 


. 27 


Sweet potatoes 


. 95 


Salmon . . • • . 


. 159 


Swiss lake-dwellers, food of . 


219 


Salt .... . 


• 24 






„ in water . • • . 


. 13 


Tarragon 


. 188 


Salts in food . • • . 


. 23 


Tartaric acid . . . . 


194 


Samphire . . • . 


. 108 


Tea 


196 


Sapucaia-nuts . 


131 


„ substitutes 


203 


Savory .... 


. 188 


Tobacco . . . . 


204 


Seakale 


99 


Tomatoes . . . . 


Id 


Sewage-pollution of water 


19 


Tripe 


154 


Shaddock . . . . 


125 


Turnips 


90 


Shallot 


188 


Turtle 


157 


Sheep's milk . 


135 






Sherry . . . . . 


. 177 


Vanilla 


191 


Siamese foods . 


218 


Veal 


153 


Skim milk . . . . 


137 


Vegetable foods 


57 


Soap wasted by hard water . 


18 


,, marrow . • 


100 


Softening water 


21 


Vinegar 


194 


Soldiers' diet . . . . 


213 






Soles 


159 


Walnuts. . , . , 


126 


Sorrel 


. 108 


Watercress . . . . 


no 


Spices 


188 


Water, filtration of . 


19 


spinach . . • . . 


98 


„ in human body . 


4 


Spirits . . . . . 


. 178 


,, in food 


. 10 


Spring water . . . . 


17 


„ hardness of. 


17 


Starch 


26 


,, softening of. 


21 


,, in foods 


28 


„ supply . . 


14 


Strawberry . . . 


116 


Wheat . . . . 


58 


Succory . ' . 


108 


„ grain, structure of 


61 


Sugar 


29 


Whisky 


. 181 


Sugar from rags 


33 


Wine . . . . . 


. 174 


,, millet . . . . 


30 


• 




„ uses of. • 


32 


Yam . , • . , 


. 96 




THE 


END. 





CHARLES DICKEHS AUD EVA1*S» CRXStM- YK\-KC«. Y^XS&. 



South Kensington Museum Handbook Advertiser, March, 1878. 1 

ORIENTAL ART MANUFACTURES. 



FEBSIAN, IHSUir, CmHESE, AHD JAPANESE 

SPECIALITIES AND OBJECTS D'ART 

TWELVE SHOW ROOMS, 

COMPMSINa THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE SELECTION. 



LIBERTY & CO., 

REaENT 

And 42 & 43, KING STREET, LONDON, W. 

)IRECT COBRESPONDENTS IN PERSIA, INDIA, CHINA, AND JAPAN. 




i Special Lot of Indian Cotton Bugs, 6ft. by 8ft. 4in., ds. 6d. dacli. 
Oriental Vases for Cabinet decorations, 7s. 6d. pair. 
Chinese Gongs from 21s. Japanese Folding Screens firom d6s. 
Blue and White Vases, 1,000 at one price. Is. each. 

DBBCBXPTZTTB CATALOOUB, WZTB FBZOBB^ POST FBSB. 

r.B. — ^The exquisite Oriental Art Manufactures are especially adapted for Wedding 

and Birthday Presents and Complimentary Gifts. 

rHE WONDER OF THE AGE ! 

W. STEWARD'S 

ALUMINIUM MACHINE-MADE 

W^ATCHES AND CHAINS. 

Good Sound Watches 21s. 

Superior Finished 30s. 

Best Quality 42s. 

Keyless ditto, 80s., 42s,, and 68s., Warranted. 

IHAINS and ALBEBTS, 4s. 6d., 10s. 6d., and 16s. 6d., 

AccordiBg to Quality and Pattern. 

. Large Assortment of GOLD AND SILVEB WATCHES, all kinds of 
CLOCKS, and every description of JEWELLERY eq[ually chea^. 

QXrALXTX OITABJikXmS&l>. i 

80UTR SIDE OF ST. CLEMENT'S -DXS^^ CffT^^^^ 



South Kemington Mmeuni Handbook Advertiser^ March, 1878. 



In the Easter, Kidsnmmer, and Christinas Holidays Six Elementary 
leotfires on Geology and Palsaontology (adapted to a Jnvenile A.n£enoe; 

Will be delivered by Frof. Tbnnant, at his residence, 149, Strand, W.O., at 10 a.m. 

and 3 p.nL Terms, IDs. 6d. each, 

DsscBiFTiyB Geoloot. — Classification of Books into Aqueous, Yolcanio, Flutonie, 
and Metamorphio. 

Mineral Composition of Strata, — ^Arenaceous, Argillaceous, Calcareous. — Chronological 
Classification of Sedimentary Books, with descriptions of the principal Fossils belonging 
to each great deposit. 

Te&tiaby, or Cainozoio Skbiss,<— Cave-Deposits, Crag, Isle of Wigbt and Bagsh^t 
series, London Clay, Woolwich beds. 

Segondart, or Mesozoig Sebibs. — Cretaceous, Wealden, Oolitio (Upper, Middle, and 
Lower), Triassio Groups. 

F&iMABT, or FALiBozoio Sebisb. — ^Fermian, Carboniferous, Devonian, Silurian, and 
Cambrian Groups. 

Tlie mode of collecting, cleaning, and arranging Fossils, Minerals, and Bock-specimens 
will be described. 

Syllabus of Lectures on Mineralogy, 

ADAPTED TO FACILITATE THE StuDY OF GEOLOGY AND OF MINEBAL SUB- 

STAKCES USED IN THE ABTS, which will be given by J. TENNANT, F.G.S., 
Frofessor of Geological Mineralogv, at King's College, London, on Wednesday and 
Friday mornings from 9 to 10, and on Thursday evenings from 8 to 9. 
The Course will commence with a description of the Fhysical and Chemical Characters 
ef Minerals in general. 

Fhysical Chabacters. — Crystallization, Cleavage, Fracture, Frangibility, Hardness, 
Lustre, Colour, Flexibility, Double Befraction, Touch, Taste, Odour, StreaJc, Fowder, 
Adhesion to the Tongue, Magnetic and Electric Properties, Fhosphorescence, Specific 
Gravity. 

Chemical Chaeactebs. — ^Use of the Blowpipe, Action of Acids, &c. 
The principal simple Minerals will be next separately considered, and tbe readiest 
mode 01 distinguishing them described. The following is the order adopted : — 

A. JEarthy Minerals, — Eock-Crystal, Amethyst, Cairngorm, Avanturine, Cat's-eye, 
Opal, Chalcedony, Flint, Onyx, Agate, Camelian, Heliotrope, Jasper, Homstone, Chert, 
Garnet, Idocrase, Axinite, Epidote, Augite, Hornblende, Asbestos, Tremolite, Actinolite, 
Felspars, Zeolites, Mica, Talc, Chlorite, Calcite, Fluor, Selenite, Baiyta, Strontia, Salt, 
Cryolite, &c. 

B. Combustible Minerals. — Sulphur, Bitumen, Coal, Jet, Amber, &c. 

C. Minerals used in Jewelry, — ^Diamond ; coloured Tarieties of Corundum— Sapphire, 
Ruby, Topaz — called Oriental Stones; Spinal, Turquoise, Topaz, Emerald, Beryl, 
HTacinth, Tourmaline, Lapis-lazuli, &c. • 

I). The Metalliferous Minerals will be folly described in the Fractical Course. I 

The Course of Instruction will include a minute description of all the substances 
entering into the composition of Bocks, and of those Minerals which, are also used in 
the Arte, illustrated by an extensiye collection of characteristic specimens and diagrams 
of the principal crystalline forms, &c. 

The above Lectures commence at King's College early in October and end at Christmas* 

To be followed by Lectnres on Bocks and Metallio UineraLs.. 

The Lectures delivered on the subject of Geological Mineralogy are intended to have 
especial reference to the important practical applications of that science to Engineerini^ 
Mining, Architecture, and Agriculture. The Granites, Syenites, Forphyries, Greea- 
stones. Clays, &c., will be described, and the Minerals peculiar to each noticed. 

The application of Geology to pursuite connected with Tnim'Tig operations for Coal, 
Lx)n, Copper, Tin, Silver, Gold, Mercuiy, Antimony, Zinc, Cobalt, &c., will be specially 
considered. The student is directed how to proceed in the examination of a nev 
countiT, how to collect and record his observations, and to mark his specimens, in order 
to Tender them useful to more experienced G^logists at home. 

In order more folly to exemplify tke applications of the Science, Mr. Temuoi 
ccompanies Ms Classes to variouB 'M.ufieivmi% in. licm^^sii^ mcluding the Moaeum of 
ractical Qeology and the Britiah. l/Luaeuxn; «2^o on evsvscn&icnA \x^ Hh!k& ^^untry, i> 
ilch the actual £eld-work of the Geolo^^tia crK^^iy^^sv^^S^ksffi^sAisj^. 

^^ above Lectures commence at Xtng' a College in JoiKMSt^ oM wft q^ ^<Hftw> 



South Kensington Museum Handbook Advertiser, Matehf 1878. 9 



I-. 



THE ART AT HOME SERIES. 

In orown 8vo, oloth, with numerouB Illustrations, price 2s. 6d. eaclii 

" In these decorative days the volumes bring calm cotmsel and kindly suggestions, with information for 
the ignorant and aid for the advancing, that ought to keep many a feeble if .well-meaning pilgrim along 
the weary road, at the end whereof, far off, lies the Hoase BeantifnL ... If the whole series but continues 
as it has begun— if the volumes yet to be rival the two initial ones— it will be beyond praise as a library of 
househdd arU^^—Examiner. 

A Plea for Art in the Souse. With special 

reference to the Economy of Collecting Works of Art, and the Importance of 
Taste in Education and Morals. By W. J. Loftie. Third Edition. 

Souse Decoration, in Painting, Wood- 

WORK, AND FURNITURE. By Rhoda and Agnes Gahrett. Fourth 
Edition. 

Music in the Souse. By John Hullah. Third 

Edition. 

Uie Drawing -room ; its Decorations and Furni- 

TVBE. By Mrs. Orbinsmith. Second Edition. 

The Dining-room. By Mrs. Loftie. 

The Bedroom and Boudoir. By Lady Barker. 

OTHERS TO FOLLOW. 
MACMILLAN & CO., LONDON. 



TO BE COMPLETED IK ABOUT 12 QUABTEBL7 PARTS. 

A DICTIONARY OF MUSIC 

AND MUSICIANS. 

By eminent WRITERS, ENGLISH AND FOREIGN. 

Edited by GEOEGE GROTS, Ti.^\.. 

Part X., pttblislied Ja]lua)^y, 1B?I%, TS^Aft^ ^^- ^^ 



4 South J^ensingtm Museum Itandibooh Advertiser, March, l678. 

SMITH, E LDER, & CO.'S PUB LICATJONST 

The follomng Works may he seen in the Library of the Educational 

Collection^ South Kensington Museum. 

WOBKS BY JOHN MABSHALL, F.B.S.» F.B.C.S., 

^BOPESSOB OF SXJBOBBT, TJNIYBB8ITT COLLEGB ; SURGEON TO THE UNITEBSITT GOLLIQB 
hospital; and FBOFESSOB of anatomy TO THE ROYAL ACADEMY. 

Prepared for the Department of Science and Art. 

PHYSIOLOGICAL DIAGEAMS. An Entirely New 

Edition, extended and revised by the Author. Eleyen Diagrams, life-size,' each on 
paper 7 feet by 3 feet 9 inches, Coloured, price 12s. 6d. each Sheet ; or selected 
Proo&, more Highly Coloured, Mounted on Canyas, vith EoUers, and Varnished, 
price £1 Is. each. 
EXPLANAT0B7 KEY. 16pp.8vo,l8. 

A SEKIES OE LIFE-SIZE DIAGRAMS OF THE 

HUMAN BODY, specially adapted for Art Students, Schools of Art, &c., price 
12s. 6d. each sheet, coloured ; or &l Is. each, selected Proofs, mounted on canvaa^ 
with rollers, and yarnished. 
BXFLANATOBT EE7, price Is. 

A DESCKIPTION OF THE HUMAN BODY: Its 

structure and Functions, Illustrated by Physiological Diagrams, designed for the 
Use of Teachers in Schools and Young Men destined for the Medical Profession, 
and for Popular Instruction generally. 

Th6 Work contains 260 quarto pages of Text, hound in eloth, and 240 Coloured lUustrttUons, arranged in 
11 FoKo Plates, measurinff 15 inches by 7^, in a limp Cover. Price of the Quarto Volume and fftnaU F§li0 
Adas, 21s, 

LONDON: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15, WATEKLOO PLACE. 

Demy 8vo, illustrated. Is. each. 

HENRY BLACKB URN'S AR T HANDBOOKS. 

Academy Notes for 1878. 

With Illustrations of the Principal Pictures at Burlington House ; more than One 
Hundred being Facsimiles of Sketches drawn by the Artists. 

\* Academy Notes for 1875, 1876, and 1877 may also be had, price One Shiiling each. 
*< We at once take an opportunity of offering onr thanks, as well as those of all visitors to the Exliibition, 
to Mr. Blackburn for his very carefully executed Beview of tlie Academy pictures, illustrated by some 100 
woodcut memoranda of the principal pictures, almost half of them from the pencUa of the painters them- 
selves. A cheaper, prettier, or more convenient souvenir of tbe Exhibition it would be difficult to cmiceive 
and unreasonable to expect."— Ttm«<. 

Pictorial Notes in the National Gallery. 

The British School. With upwards of 100 Illustrations of the Principal Pictures 
at Trafalgar Square, and Plans of the Galleries ; forming a complete Catalogue of 
the British Section. 

The Old Masters at Trafalgar Square. 

With 100 Illustrations. 

Picttires at South Kensington. 

With 80 Illustrations of the Baphael Cartoons, the Sheepshanks Collection, &C/ 

The Dudley Oallery. 

With 64 niustratione. 

Oroavenor JSTotes tor 1878. 



South Kensington Museum Handbook AdveHiser^ Marchy 1878. 



CHAPMAN AN D HALUS P UBLICATIONS. 

SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM 

ART HANDBOOKS. 

TAPESTBY. By Alfbed de Champeaot. With Woodcuts. Large 

oiown Sto, 2i, M. 

BBONZES. By C. Dbtoy E. Foetnum, F.S.A. With nnmerous 

Woodcnta. I^oge crown 8ro, 3a. fld. 

PERSIAN ABT. By Major R. Murdoch Smith, R.E. New Edition. 

With Map and Additional IlluBtrations. Large Crown 8to. [Inthepreis. 

TEXTILE FABBIOS* By the Very Rev. Daniel Rock, D.D. 

With numeroiu Woodcoti. La^g^e crown 8vo, 2s. 0d. 

IVOBIES : Ancient and Mepmival. By William Maskell. With 

uameroofl Woodcuts. Large crown 8to, 2s. 6d. 

ANCIENT AND MODEBN FUBNITirBE AND WOOD- 

WOKX« By JoHir HuireEBFOBD Polueit. With numerous Woodcuts. Large crown Svo, 28. 6d. 

MAIOLIOA. By C. Drxjry E. Fobtnum, F.S.A. With numerous 

Woodcuts. Large crown Svo, 28. 6d. 

MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. By Carl Engel. With numerous 

Woodcuts. Large crown Svo, 28. 6d. 

MANUAL OF DESIGN, compiled from the Writings and Addresses 

of RiCHABD Redgrave, R.A., Surveyor of Her Majesty's Pictures, late Inspector-General for Art, 
Science and Art Dq;>artment. By Gilbert R. Redgbave. With Woodcuts. Large crown Sw, 
2s. 6d. 

ECONOMIC ENTOMOLOGY. By And^w Murray, F.L.S. 

Apteba. With numerous Illustrations. Published for the Commiftee of Council on Education. 
Large Crown Svo, 7s. 6d. 

FOOD : a Short Account of the Sources, Constituents, and Uses of Food ; 

intended chiefly as a Guide to the Food Collection in the Bethnal Green Museum. By A. H. 
Chubcb, M.A.. Oxon., Professor of Chemistry in the Agricultural College, Cirencester. Published 
for the Committee of Council on Education. Large crown Svo, 8b. / 

ANIMAL PRODUCTS : their Preparation, Commercial Uses, and 

Value. By P. L. SlMMOVDS, Editor of the Journal of Applied Science. Published for tlie 
Committee of Council on Education. 1 vol. large crown Svo, cloth, 78. 6d. 

PLAIN WORDS ABOUT WATER. By A. H. Church, M.A., 

Oxon., Professor of Chemistry in the Agricultural College, Cirencester. Large crown Svo, 6i. 

THE INDUSTRIAL ARTS; Historical Sketches. With 242 

niostrations. Demy Svo, 78. 6d. 

HANDBOOK TO THE SPECIAL LOAN COLLECTION 

OF SCIENTIFIC APPARATUS. Large crown bvo, 3s. 

SCIENCE CONFERENCES— Physics and Mechanics. Delivered 

at the South Kensington Museum. Crown Svo, 6s. 
asApsT, MnncBALOQrt and Mictboboi.oqy. 6s. 

FREE EVENlNa LECTTJB."ES. I>6\\^«6a.m 'iwasnis.^" 

ae4>ec(dX<wnOi)UeotloiiofSi!ieatUloAimuatus.l816. liK«» «(W-™ '^'" "' 






ANGEL PASSAGS, 93, DPPEK THAMES ST., 
PESPUMEES, FINE SOAP MAZERS, 

FANCY BRUSH 'iuNUFACTUREHS 

Sa^ic^ajtsta^^.StJ.t^t princess dE mates. 

nhLctl Dal' be obUlned or ill Portunwrs snd Diuegiila ihrDueh- 
F£BFnUE3 FOB THE HAHDEEBCRIEF, Ik., 

BXTRACT OF JASlIINj ORANGE 



T E G T II 





PEARL LIKE ' 
WHinSESS 

For PromoUng tl Oiowib ot ilit Holr, h 2 /fi t B/a p E ttlo 
AGDA AtlARBLL 
Ab»1uul;Rigt(iin the Hsic to lu Oltgliul Cc 

PSEPASATIONS FOR THE COMFLEXtOH 

Ottq oy BosB Cold CaKiu, 1/- i B/ 

EitrtHigblrPernuDed Violet and MiUsflsarTdlotPerdsr, 

, PINE TOIUET 

HeilOld BHOTrv WIHDBOR, Id PKkru or 9 a 

IjU & ?/e : LA N0BLI9SE. l/S ; L>£TCCE, ]/«. 

Handflome Wrappar. 
SUPBRIOn, HkIR, TOOTH, AN AIL 

JOHN OOBNELL b C 

QRAFHIO THEATHIOAL PKOORAMME. 

''-Ting Eoom TiWo, All oommnnlMiloiie lo be itWtotied to 

Ilr. £. H. Bpbgoimk, G3, Upper Tbames Si., London, 



South Kmtington Museum Handbook Advertmr, March, 1678> ' 7 

ASSEE & SHERWIN. 

ART MANUFACTURES, 

WEDDING AND BIRTHDAY PRESENTS. 




Inkstands 10/6 to £4 

Candlesticks 18/- to £5 

Card Trays 10/6 to £5 

Book Slides 7/- to £5 

Envelope Cases.... 25/- to £10 
SmeUlng Bottles .. 6/6 to £7 10/- 

puraes J/- to 25/- 

Cigar Cases 2/6 to 30/- 

Glove Boxes 10/6 12/- 21/- 

Handkerchlef do... 8/6 10/- 20/- 
'Work Boxes £1 to £6 



Portrait Frames . . 2/6 to 42/- 
Letter Balances . . 36/- to 105/- 
Dressing Cases .... 12/- to £50 
Do. Bags .... 40/- to £30 

Albums 4/- to £12 

Blotting Books .... 10/- to £6 

JewelCases 7/6 to £6 

Dispatch Boxes 21/- to £10 

Desks 10/6 to £10 

■Work Baskets 9/- to £5 

Scent Boxes 7/6 to £10 10/ 



NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE 



SUMMER AND WINTER GAMES, PRIZES AND PRESENTS, 

CONTAIHING 200 ENGRAVINGS. 
7BEE ON AFFIICATION. 



AS8ER & SHEST^^?;^- 



8 South Kemington Museum Handbook Advertiser, March, 1878. 

LESLIE'S 

ALMONDISED COD LIVER OIL 

(BEQJSTERBB), 

USED IN THE BROMPTON CONSUMPTION HOSPITAL. 



This Oil is the purest Cod Liver Oil obtainable, manufactared entirely from 
perfectly fresh livers of the fish^ and free from any adulteration ; it has 
a slight almond flavour, obtained by an infusion of amygdal oil, entirely 
free from hydrocyanic acid. This infusion renders the oil digestible (the 
disagreeable rising or repeating which generally follows the taking of the 
less pure and untreated oil being entirely avoided). The flavour remaining 
on the palate when taken with milk is that of delicate custard. Unlike 
the so-called palatable Oils, this is not an emulsion, or a mixture of oil 
and syrup, but Cod Liver Oil. 

For Children and ^persons of a weak stomach this preparation is invaluable, 
OPINIONS OF THE MEDICAL PRESS. 

<^This is a preparation in whicli the naturally nauseous taste of the oil is disguised 
vith considerable art. Such, preparations possess real importance." — Lancet, 

" The Oil has been treated by a process of almond-flavouring, successfully removing: 
the impleasant smell and taste, and causing it to be readily digestible. We are pleased 
to record that, whilst securing the beneficial results traceable to Cod Liver Oil as a 
valuable tonic and dietetic, we have found no difficulty in inducing our little patients to 
take it." — British Medical Journal, 

*' The Almondised Oil has an agreeable smell and flavour, and is almost entirely free 
from the nauseous taste inseparable from any oil. We can testify that the result is 
satisfactory." — Medical Frexs and Circular. 

** Cod liver Oil of the best quality, with an agreeable almond flavour. It may be 
confidently reconmiended where the ordinary forms of Cod^Liver Oil are found distaste- 
ful." — Medical £ecord. 

" This is an agreeably flavoured Cod Liver Oil, introduced by Messrs. Leslie & Co, 
The taste is decidedly masked by the almond flavouring, but it is still Cod Liver Oil. 
Great credit is due to those who render a nauseous medicine palatable and agreeable." — 
Medical Times and Gazette, 

"This is an excellent specimen of Cod Liver Oil of fine quality and delicate flavour, 
which, in its combination with almond flavour, is among the most creditable examples 
of elegant pharmacy to which our attention has been directed. We have tried its 
eflect upon the most delicate constitutions with marked success. So well are the odour 
and taste of the oil disguised that children will take the preparation with avidity. 

"For all purposes where Cod Liver Oil is generally made use of, we would strongly 
advise a trial of Leslie's Almondised Cod Liver Oil." — Sanitary Mecord. 

Soldon/y in Capsuled Bottles, mth Lkbd tearing t/ie Signature of the Firm. 

^^ICS—JPinta, 4:8. 6d. ; Half-piat»,2».«L.\qsa»bT^x-^\s^^^ 

MMTAHs OF AIjL CHEMISTS AND BB.T3QQTBTO, KSY> -TTaSSlSEKilE. OT 

'''' * CO. aiMITED\ BOND COW^-X Wm^^^VvV^^^ 



AND 




Ivle 



SIR HENRY 



iiiuni 



'V/x^'vVrJr-N/v^V 






Ienu 



MORS DCZUVRES 



POTAGE 

POISSON 

RELEVL 

ENTREES 

ROT 

ENTREMETS 

BOUT 



5^ 


>• 


5^ 


f ', 


5^ 



x!TH EDiTiON, 



BOUGHT WITH THE INCOME 
FROM THE 

SAGE ENDOWMENT FUND 

THE GIFT OF 

Benrg W, Sage 

1 891 

,A-MkM//. ^/H^?'! 



RETURN TO 
ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 

ITHACA, N. Y. 



Cornell University Library 
TX 651.T47 1899 



Food and feeding, 




3 1924 000 672 570 




The original of tliis bool< is in 
tlie Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000672570 



FOOD AND FEEDING 




1220 
210 

1 200 
190 

1 180 

|l70 

I leo 

iiso 

illO 
I 150 



= E 




Sz 



rig^.2. 




THERMOMETERS USED IN COOKING. 



THERMOMETERS USED IN COOKING. 



Fig. 1 is used in large braising pots, as for a ham. Range 
of temperature from 60° to 220° Fahr., so as to safely 
cover the boiling point 212° when required. The usual 
range for "slow cooking " is marked on the scale as lying 
between 130° and 175.° Its length is eight inches not 
reckoning the ring at the upper end. 

Fig. 2. (A) is a smaller instrument with a range of tem- 
perature from 120° to 220° Fahr. for use in a small 
saucepan or shallow stewpan. 

(B) represents a metal socket in which it stands 
upright, so that the temperature may be read with ease. 
In hashing a few slices of meat, for example, the 
temperature should never exceed 135° to 140°, at which 
heat no hardening takes place, and this is the best kind 
of instrument to employ. In its socket it is five-and-a- 
half inches in length. 



FOOD AND FEEDING 



SIR HENRY THOMPSON, Bart. 



F.R.C.S., M.B. LOND., ETC. 



WITH AN APPENDIX 




TENTH EDITION 



LONDON 
FREDERICK WARNE AND CO. 

AND NEW YORK 
1899 

iAll rights reserved) 

^ ,3 



PREFACE TO THE NINTH 
EDITION 

ENLARGED AND REVISED 



During the last few years several large editions of 
this book have been called for, and much new matter 
has been added to three or four of them. 

The last edition has, however, been exhausted, and 
the work is out of print. I propose in this, my final 
edition, to bring the subject up to the present date, 
and to utter my last words respecting it. For 
scientific research, never ceasing to progress, has 
naturally added something to our knowledge of the 
digestive processes, during the last few years, as well 
as of the value to man of certain food-principles from 
which his body derives nutrition. 

The art of cooking also has, like other arts, been 
sedulously cultivated by a few, leading to improve- 
ments in appliances and in the methods to be adopted 
for the preparation of a wholesome and agreeable 
diet. Moreover, the selection of food and the pre- 
paration of it for the table are far more widely 
understood and appreciated now than they were 
when the little volume first appeared nearly twenty 
years ago. 



6 Preface. 

In the present and enlarged edition I have 
attempted to classify the various processes employed 
in cookery and its staple products in a more complete 
and natural order than heretofore, and to explain 
more fully the principles on which they are employed, 
the objects aimed at, and the rationale of each 
procedure. 

The subject of " slow cookery " is one which I 
have practically studied of late with much interest, 
and I have recorded the result of various experiments. 
I am satisfied that in cooking food, especially that 
derived from the animal kingdom, the longer applica- 
tion of low temperatures will render it more easily 
digestible and nutritious, as well as more agreeable 
than the old methods. By these latter I mean the 
long-established custom of cooking "joints" by the 
highest temperature obtainable through boiling water, 
or radiation from a fire in the course of two or three 
hours, viz. the familiar processes of "boiling" and 
" roasting " respectively. 

I venture to hope that the numerous elementary 
observations and practical hints relating to the very 
wide subject of Food and Feeding which have thus 
been brought together may prove useful, and tend 
to promote a still wider appreciation of one of the 
most important and interesting branches of inquiry 
demanded by the necessities of life and social 
intercourse. 

35, WiMPOLE Street, 
June, 189& 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER I. 

PAGE 

Importance of proper selection and preparation of food — Improper 
feeding common among all classes, and at all periods of life 
— The purpose and the elements of food — To repayr the waste 
of the body, to maintain the animal heat, and provide a store 
of energy for activity — i. The proteids, or nitrogenous 
elements — 2. The hydro-carbons, or fats — 3. Carbo-hydrates 
— 4. Inorganic elements : water, various salts — AU these 
obtainable from animal and vegetable kingdoms — Comparison 
between elements derived from the two sources — Difference 
between digestive organs in animals eating only vegetables 
and those consuming animal food also — Man accustomed to 
" a mixed diet " — In some regions can live only on animal food 
— Climate decides proportion of animal food necessary — Few 
persons can live solely on vegetables in temperate zone — 
Mixed diet of monkey tribes — Personal peculiarities in 
diet — Desirable to utilize all sources of food from both 
kingdoms 13 



CHAPTER II. 

Materials at man's command for food from the vegetable kingdom 
— Seeds cultivated becoming grain, or cereal foods, as wheat 
and its derivatives, flour, wheaten bread — Oats and oatmeal — 
Maize and Indian corn meal, polenta — Rice — Legumes : 
haricots and lentils, etc. — Potato — Roots, the carrot, etc., 
arrowroot — Fatty matters from seeds, nuts, etc. — Green 
vegetables — Gourds — Fungi — Fruits and bananas — Analyses 
of their composition, showing comparative amounts of proteids, 
carbo-hydrates, fats, salts, and water — Sugar — Tea, coffee. 



8 Contents. 



and cacao — Common salt — Importance of perfect mastication 
of food by the teeth in relation to digestion explained and 
insisted upon 42 

CHAPTER III. 

Foods from the animal kingdom — Domestic animals and their 
derivatives, milk, butter, and cheese — Deer and its varieties 
— Ground game — Large foreign game — Birds, domestic and 
other— Fish in great variety—" Shell-fish "—Reptiles— Man 
omnivorous ; nature of food largely determined by circum- 
stances ; prone to consume too much animal food, or to be 
careless in regard to selection of diet — Table showing the 
proportion of food-principles necessary to the daily dietary of 
an average adult, taking a moderate amount of exercise, in a 
temperate climate ... 51 

CHAPTER IV. 

Food of the English peasant — Food of the middle class generally 
too solid or stimulating — Tending to corpulence as age advances 
— The cause of chronic complaints in later years — The produce 
of land in grain with pigs and poultry larger than when devoted 
solely to grazing — Value of fish as an article of diet — Supply 
ought to be more abundant and cheaper — Regimen suited to the 
sedentary and those who are chiefly brain-workers — Elementary 
principles in selecting, combining, and cooking different forms 
of food— That of the agricultural labourer and other hard 
workers — The legumes : haricots, lentils — Various modes of 
cooking them — Also hints for their use at middle-class tables — 
Bread made of whole wheat-meal and its use — Receipts for 
making it — Combination of elements to produce a complete 
food — Cheese as diet for the working man : its use by the 
Swiss guides — Rice, and the necessary additions to make with 
it palatable, nutritious dishes — The potato, and similar com- 
binations 61 

CHAPTER V. 

Food of the middle-class Englishman, and its routine — Cookery, 
the process of rendering food digestible and nutritious by heat 
— First, heat applied through water — (a) Boiling — ^The process 



Contents. 



PAGE 

described —The effect of temperature in coagulating albumen — 
Treatment of meat in cooking depends solely on this action — 
Temperatures observed by thermometer during process of 
boiling and roasting — System of slow cooking at low tempe- 
ratures — The "Bain Marie" — Captain Warren's pot — The 
Norwegian cooker — Boiling of vegetables — {}>) Steaming — (c) 
Stewing and braising — The distinction between them — Slow 
cooking at low temperatures and its value — Receipt for cooking 
a ham thus in thirty-six hours — Boeufh la mode . . .90 



CHAPTER VI. 

Secondly, cooking by dry heat in hot air — (a) Baking — In dry 
compartments heated by steam — Becker's process and others 
— Atkinson's American oven — The English kitchener — {b) 
Roasting — The " taste of the fire " — Its attractive peculiarity 
— (1:) Broiling, another illustration of this — The process ex- 
plained — The third method, cooking by high temperature in 
heated oil or frying — Process explained — A careful attention 
to minute particulars necessary to insure success — The omelette 
— Opposite principles in French and English cookery con- 
sidered — Superiority of each in certain particulars . . -US 



CHAPTER VII. 

Soups — Not sufficiently esteemed — Better understood in France — 
Poi-au-feu—T:hs "stock-pot " — Bouillon — Consommi — Endless 
varieties produced from these — Three distinct classes of soup — 
I. The clear : of meat, fowl, and game ; and vegetables or 
maigre — 2. The thick or /a^-^ej; of the same — ^Various illustra- 
tions of these — 3. More substantial soups : turtle, ox-tail, and 
other examples — Bouillabaisse — Soups, gras and maigre — 
Receipts for vegetable soup — Practical hints in making the 
above 136 



CHAPTER VIII. 

Sauces — The two chief foundation sauces, the brown or £spa- 
gftole, the white or Velouti — Their derivatives — English melted 
butter — Mattre cC Hotel— Ravigotte, etc. — Author's receipt 
for Bigarade sauce — Garnishes — Their variety and use in 



10 Contents. 



supplementing dishes — Cookery of vegetables d VAnglaise and 
h la Franfaise — The tomato — Macaroni — Best modes for pre- 
paring for the table — Rice : various ways of preparing — The 
value of mincing in preparing flesh for food — Cold meats, the 
service of— Aspic jelly — Salads, in variety . . . .150 



CHAPTER IX. 

Fish, and its value as food — The various constituents of flesh, of 
wheaten bread, and of fish compared — Analytic table, showing 
the same — Fish is desirable food for many persons — Ought to 
be less costly than it is — Varieties of fish, and their distinctive 
characters as food — Some contain large proportion of fat — The 
conger and the sturgeon — Preparation of fish for the table — 
Value of head, bones, and fins for sauce making — Fish sauces 
— Salmon in perfection — Crimping of ditto — Mode of cooking 
it — Baking of fish — Roasting and broiling — Boiling and steam- 
ing — Fish soups and stews, excellent — Receipts — Bouillabaisse 
— A working man's stew 178 



CHAPTER X. 

Milk, an example of a natural " complete " food — That of the cow 
is its type — Its use as food almost univfersal — Essentially an 
animal food — Most important that it should be pure and un- 
contaminated — Being very susceptible of injury, in distribu- 
tion and otherwise, thus becomes a fertile source of 
disease — Many epidemics of fever, etc., caused by the milk 
trade — Tuberculous milk — Analysis, and nutritive value — 
Milk essentially food for the young growing animal — Whey 
— Koumiss — Strict sanitary measures employed to ensure the 
purity and wholesomeness of milk — Prudence requires it to 
be generally regarded as a raw product, to be taken only 
after boiling, especially by travellers abroad .... 202 



CHAPTER XI. 

The combination of dishes to form a meal — Three typical systems 
of arranging daily meals — The French or Continental — The 
provincial (Great Britain)— That of town life (London) — 



Contents. 1 1 



PAGE 

Characteristics of each meal — Breakfast — Lunch — Dinner, of 
two kinds : the family meals, the dinner of invitation — The 
rationale of the initial soup — Plan of dishes to follow dis- 
cussed — Hon-cCauvres — More in vogue on the Continent than 
in this country — Most of all in Russia — As a dietetic habit, it 
is undesirable for reasons given 214 



CHAPTER XII. 

Dinners of invitation — Two kinds : small and select ; large but 
complete — The old pretentious style described — Scheme of a 
rational dinner-party — Priority in the service of various courses 
or dishes discussed — Dessert — The quart oCheure after dinner 
— Turtle and fish dinners — Curry — Sketch for a small dinner. 225 



CHAPTER XIII. 

The question of wine with dinner — Remarks on the habitual use 
of alcoholic drinks of any kind — Wine should be taken chiefly 
during dinner, never before, not much, if any, after — Should 
be sound and pure, and without pretence — How to attain 
this — Relation of various wines with certain dishes — Cigarettes 
after dinner — Tobacco suggests coffee, and is incompatible 
with fine wine — The supply of water at dinner — Aerated 
waters — Foreign mineral waters — Their use at home and 
abroad — Sweet drinks at dinner objectionable . . . 237 



CHAPTER XIV. 

In order to arrange a dinner some practical acquaintance with food 
is necessary — Also of the season at which various kinds are 
in perfection — The art of menu writing — The scheme or 
elementary outline of a dinner — Menus should be written 
in French — Examples of simple menus for each month in the 
year — Some in English, chiefly in French, for comparison — 
Mentis of higher character — Further remarks on the order in 
which dishes should be presented — And on other matters 
arising out of the subject 2^9 



1 2 Contents. 



CHAPTER XV. 

PAGE 

The public dinner — Its undue length — Toasts too numerous — 
Suggestions for shortening the proceedings — Good cookery 
independent of pedantic and complicated receipts — Schools 
of cookery — Elementary scientific teaching wanted to make 
cookery interesting and a progressive art — Better food, in 
better condition, and in more abundant supply, a pressing 
want for London — Conclusion 272 



APPENDIX. 

On the Pot-au-Feu, Soups, etc. 

Pot-au-feu : Jules Gouffe's instructions for making it — Gouffe's in- 
structions for braising — Bauf h la mode — Vegetable Soup — 
Author's directions for beef-tea — Table of French equivalents 
for the English words denoting fish, as a guide in writing 
menus — Table showing when fish is in season — Children's 
dinner tables — Author's receipt for cheap, nutritious soup — 
The dinner of the working man, and Mr. Atkinson's sug- 
gestions respecting it 285 



INDEX 301 



FOOD AND FEEDING 



CHAPTER I. 

Importance of proper selection and preparation of food — 
Improper feeding common among all classes, and at all 
periods of life — The purpose and the elements of food — To 
repair the waste of the body, to maintain the animal heat, 
and provide a store of energy for activity — i. The proteids, 
or nitrogenous elements — 2. The hydro-carbons, or fats — 
3. Carbo-hydrates — ^4. Inorganic elements : water, various 
salts — All these obtainable from animal and vegetable 
kingdoms — Comparison between elements derived from the 
two sources — Difference between digestive organs in animals 
eating only vegetables and those consuming animal food 
also — Man accustomed to " a mixed diet " — In some regions 
can live only on animal food — Climate decides proportion 
of animal food necessary — Few persons can live solely on 
vegetables in temperate zone — Mixed diet of monkey tribes 
— Personal peculiarities in diet — Desirable to utilize all 
sources of food from both kingdoms. 

I THINK I shall not be far wrong if I say that there 
are few subjects which deserve more choice of 
careful study by man than the selection important 
and preparation of his food. Our fore- study, 
fathers in their wisdom have provided, by ample and 
generously endowed organizations, for the dissemina- 
tion of moral precepts in relation to human conduct, 



14 Food and Feeding. 

and for the constant supply of sustenance to meet 
the cravings of religious emotions common to all 
sorts and conditions of men. In these provisions no 
student of human nature can fail to recognize the 
spirit of wisdom and a lofty purpose. But it is not a 
sign of ancestral wisdom that so little thought has 
been bestowed on the teaching of what we should eat 
and drink ; or on the relations necessarily existing 
~ not only between food and a healthy population, but 
between food and a virtuous life. 

Indeed, the process of digestion and the influence 
it exerts on the sources of mental and moral power, 
have received little attention in any scheme for 
fitting men and women for the practical duties of 
life. No doubt the truth has long been accepted, at 
all events by intelligent persons, that a man's temper, 
and consequently the character of his actions, often 
depend on the contingency that what he eats is pro- 
perly converted, or not, into healthy material, suitable 
for the ceaseless work- of building up both muscle 
The relation and brain. But the truth of that fact 
foorind ^^^ never been generally admitted to an 

character. extent at all comparable with its exceed- 
ing importance. It produces no practical result 
on the habits of men in the least degree com- 
mensurate with the claim it has to be believed and 
acted upon. For it is certain that an adequate prac- 
tical recognition of the value of proper food to the 
individual in maintaining a high standard of health, 
in prolonging healthy life (the prolongation of 



Its Influence in Childhood. 15 

unhealthy life being small gain either to the individual 
or to the community), and thus largely promoting 
cheerful temper, prevalent good nature, and improved 
moral tone, would achieve almost a revolution in the 
habits of a large part of the community. 

The general outlines of a man's mental character 
and physical tendencies are doubtless influence of 
largely determined by the impress of ''**^^* 
race and family. That is to say, the scheme of the 
building, its characteristics and dimensions, are in- 
herited ; but to a very large extent the materials 
and filling in of the individual's framework depend, 
in regard of their quality, upon his food j - 
and training. By the latter term may of food and 
be understood all that relates to mental 
and moral and even to physical education, assumed 
to be fairly provided for, and not to be considered 
here. No matter, then, how consummate the scheme 
of the architect, nor how vast the design, more or 
less of failure to rear the edifice results when the 
materials are ill chosen or for the most part un- 
worthy to be used. Other sources of failure there 
may be which it is no part of my business to note ; 
but the influence of food is not only itself cardinal 
in rank, but, by priority of action, is the source of 
various forces, injurious or the reverse, as the case 
may be. 

A very slight sketch of the course of development 
observed in the most ordinary types of human life will 
suffice to illustrate this truth. 



1 6 Food and Feeding. 

To commence, then, I fear it must be admitted that 

_ . the majority of British infants are reared 

Errors in , -n /• j 

feeding in- on imperfect milk by weak or ill-fed 

fonts. mothers. And thus it follows that the 

signs of feeble vitality, of fretful disposition or of 
disease, may be observed at a very early age, and 
are apparent in symptoms of indigestion or in the 
cravings of want manifested by the " peevish " and 
sleepless child. In circumstances where there is no 
want of appropriate nutriment, over-feeding or com- 
plicated forms of food, suitable only for older persons, 
produce for another infant troubles which are no less 
grave than those of the class whose supply is impure 
or deficient. 

In the next stage of life, when infancy has been 
Children passed and childhood is attained, among 

often Ul-fed, the poor, the little one takes his place 
at the parents' table, where lack of means, as 
well as of knowledge, deprives him of food more 
suitable than the rough fare of the adult, and more- 
over obtains for him, perchance, his little share of 
tea, or even of beer or gin. On the whole, perhaps 
he is not much worse off than the child of the well- 
to-do, who becomes a pet, and is already familiarized 
with complex and too solid forms of food, as well as 
with stimulating drinks, which custom and self- 
means indulgence have placed on the daily 

frequent in- table. And soon afterwards commence 
disposition ; 

in consequence — and entirely in conse- 
quence, a fact it is impossible too much to emphasize 



During Period of Growth. 17 

— the " sick headaches " and " bilious attacks," which 

pursue their victim through half a lifetime, to be 

exchanged for gout or worse at or before the 

grand climacteric. And so common are these evils 

that they are regarded by people in general as a 

necessary appanage of " poor humanity," and together 

with measles or hooping cough, to be part of the 

natural and necessary development of the full-grown 

and complete man ! No notion can be 

.... , most com- 

more erroneous, smce it is absolutely true plaints so 

that the complaints referred to are self- *^*"^^°' 
engendered, form no necessary part of our physical 
nature, and for their existence are dependent almost 
entirely on our habits in relation to food and drink. 
I except, of course, those cases in which hereditary 
tendency is so strong as to produce certain evils, 
some special care notwithstanding, exercised on be- 
half of the unfortunate victim of an ancestor's self- 
indulgence. Equally, however, on the part of that 
little-to-be-revered progenitor were ill-chosen food 
and drink, or more probably an excessive indulgence 
in the quantity thereof, the cause of his disease, and 
not the physical nature of man. 

The next stage of boyhood transfers the child just 

spoken of to a public school, where too , 
^ '^ Improper 

often insufficient or inappropriate diet, food at 
at the most critical period of growth, has 
led to the habit of supplementing the supply from 
other sources. It is almost unnecessary to say that 
chief among them are those unsuitable purveyors, the 

B 



1 8 Food and Feeding. 

pastrycook and the vendor of portable provisions, 
with their wares of questionable character consumed 
not at meal times, but at irregular hours. Many an 
unhappy dyspeptic owes his complaint to a confirmed 
habit of taking such, or indeed any food in the 
intervals between regular meals, when the stomach 
ought to be at rest. 

After this period arise the temptations to drink, 
among the youth of all classes, whether 
habits of at beerhouse, tavern, or club. For it 

ng. j^^^ been taught in the bosom of the 

family, by the father's example and by the mother's 
precept, that wine, beer, and spirits are useful, nay, 
necessary to health, even for young persons, and that 
they augment or sustain the strength. And the 
lessons thus inculcated and too well learned have 
proved to be the steps which lead to wider experience 
in the pursuit of health and strength by larger use 
of the same means. Under such circumstances it 
often happens, as the youth grows up, that a flagging 
appetite or a failing digestion habitually demands a 
dram before or between meals, and that these latter 
are regarded rather as occasions to indulge in variety 
of liquor than as repasts for nourishing the body. It 
is not surprising, with such training, that the true 
object of both eating and drinking is entirely lost 
sight of The gratification of acquired tastes usurps 
the function of that zest which healthy appetite pro- 
duces ; and the intention that food should be adapted 
to the physical needs of the body and the healthy 



Eml of Drinking Habits. 19 

action of the mind is forgotten altogether. So it 

often comes to pass that at middle age, r -i r 

when man finds himself in the full earljrindi- 

, , ,.r I ^.' ^ ,. gestionthus, 

current of life s occupations, struggling 

for pre-eminence with his fellows, indigestion has 
become persistent in some of its numerous forms, 
shortens his "staying power," or impairs his- judg- 
ment or temper. And, besides all this, how apparent 
it is that few causes are more potent than an incom- 
petent stomach to engender habits of selfishness and 
egotism. A constant care to provide little personal 
wants of various kinds, thus rendered necessary, 
developes the growth of these sentiments, and they 
influence the man's whole character in consequence. 
On the other hand, the poor man, ad- ^nd other- 
vancing in years, shows signs of damage '''^^ caused, 
to his constitution from continuous toil with inade- 
quate food, the supply of which is often diminished 
by his expenditure for beer, which, although not 
seldom noxious, he regards as the elixir of life, 
never to be missed when fair occasion for obtaining 
it is offered. Many of this class are prematurely 
crippled by articular disease, etc., and become per- 
manent inmates of the parish workhouse or infirmary. 
It must be obvious to every one how much more 
of detail might be added to fill in the outlines of this 
little sketch. It is designed rather to be suggestive 
than complete, and thus it amply suffices for my 
purpose ; other illustrations will occur to any ob- 
server who cares to pursue the subject further. 



20 Food and Feeding. 

But it is necessary to say here, and I desire to 

say it emphatically, that this question of 
"Taste" in ^ ', , •'.,,. . , 

food to be food need not, even with the views just 

cultivated. enunciated, be treated in an ascetic spirit. 
The selection of food is to be considered in relation 
to a principle, in which we may certainly believe, 
, . namely, that aliments most adapted to 

ing subject develop the individual, sound in body 
and mind, shall not only be acceptable 
to the palate, but that they may be selected 
and prepared so as to afford scope for the exercise 
of a refined taste, and produce a fair degree of an 
innocent pleasure naturally associated with the act 
of eating, and derived from a study of the table. 
For it is certain that most of the results of culinary 
taste met with in English society until late years, has 
often been the result of faith without knowledge ; and 
no more a source of gratification to the eater's gusta- 
tory sense than of digestible sustenance to his body. 
The subject of this little work will therefore take 
the following form in regard of the 
food to the matter, and the method of considering 
" ^' it. Food must first be regarded in re- 

lation to its value as material to be used for building 
up and sustaining the activity of that composite 
structure, the human body, under the varied con- 
2. Modes of '^'^'°"s ^" w^ich it may be placed. 

preparing Secondly, the selection of food, and the 
a dish." , 

best modes of preparing it, resulting in 

the production of "the dish," a subject of oreat 



Uses of Food. The Proteids. 21 

extent and importance, must be dealt with so far 
as the limits of my design will permit. 3. Art of 
Lastly, the exercise of taste in relation d?shei"fo^ 
to the serving of food and drink, or "a meal." 
the art of combining dishes to form " a meal," must 
also be considered in relation to various purposes. 

We have to consider, first, what constitutes food 
for man. Its objects are threefold — to xhe objects 
repair the daily waste of the body itself, "^ ^°°^' 
a necessary consequence of life and its activity; to 
maintain the natural heat of the body, always in our 
climate a temperature many degrees above that of 
the surrounding media, whether earth, air, or water ; 
lastly, to provide the means of supplying energy to 
support an active existence. 

For this purpose, fresh elements similar to those 
of which the body is composed, must be Necessary 
furnished to it in such form and pro- elements, 
portions as to repair the loss. Additional elements 
must be supplied, by the oxidation of which more 
heat and energy are produced in proportion to the 
existing demand. All these are only to be obtained 
through digestion, and must be acquired in response 
to the instinctive demands of hunger and thirst. 

These elements are regarded as divisible into four 
distinct classes, as follows : — 

I. The Proteids. — This group contains an essential 
element for renewing the tissues of the j_ xi,e p^g. 
body, named "protein," without which teids: 
life is impossible, since starvation must take place 



22 Food and Feeding. 

unless a sufficient quantity is supplied by food. It 
is a definite compound of carbon, oxygen, and 
hydrogen with nitrogen, but often associated with 
a little sulphur and phosphorus also. " Proteids " 
fromani- ^r^ found in all animals used as food 

mals ; j^y jjj^n ; and also in many produc- 

tions of the vegetable kingdom — from which two 
sources the body can alone be supplied. We find 
the proteid element abundantly in lean meat, the 
muscle of animals, where it is known as " myosin," 
also in the blood and other parts as " fibrin." There 
are, moreover, two modifications of nitrogenous com- 
pounds allied to, but not identical with, true proteids, 
viz. " gelatin " and " chondrin," in bones and cartilage 
respectively. Proteids are largely present in eggs, 
forming " albumen," or what is familiarly known as 
the " white of eggs ; " and in milk" as " casein," the 
nitrogenous constituent of cheese. Again, in wheat, 
from vege- and existing therefore in bread, in smaller 
*^" proportion, as " gluten ; " and in the 

leguminous seeds (peas and beans) abundantly, as 
" legumin," which is almost identical with " casein." 

2. The hydro-carbons, or fatty matters, carbon, 
2. The hydro- hydrogen, and oxygen, in a certain pro- 
carbons, portion, are also necessary for nutrition ; 
and these may be obtained also from both animals 
and vegetables. 

3. Carbo-hydrates, also carbon, hydrogen, and 
3.Thecarbo- oxygen, but in different proportions 
hydrates. {^^^ t^ogg ^f ^j^^ preceding class, not 



Fats, Carbo-hydrates, Salts. 23 

absolutely essential to life like the proteids, although 
they are most desirable elements of food. They 
are largely furnished by the vegetable kingdom, 
consisting chiefly of the starches of all grain, roots, 
and tubers, with the sugars and the gums ; in milk 
they exist as milk sugar, or " lactose." 

4. Lastly, there are certain products no less essential 
than the first class, all belonging solely 4. inorganic 
to the inorganic or mineral kingdom, ^|ter"saits 
namely, water in large quantity, with etc. 
various salts of soda, lime, magnesia, potash, traces 
of iron, and other metals. All these must be present 
in the food supplied, and are obtained in all ordinary 
forms of food from both animal and vegetable sources. 

Meantime, as a result of chemical changes which 
take place in every portion of the body How 
through the assimilation of all these "t'^'^ed- 
elements, chiefly by oxidation, heat is produced ; 
while not only the proteids, but also the fatty matters 
and the carbo-hydrates of our food, as well as the 
inorganic constituents, are utilized in the repair of 
wasted tissues. 

Thus we may regard the human body as a complex 
and highly organized machine, adapted ^ comolex 

to execute work of varied but specific machine, 

self -supply- 
kind, but one which is self-supplying ingand 

by means of food, and also automatically '■ep^"''°&' 

regenerates itself in order to maintain a condition of 

good repair. 

Thus, any material which is competent to supply 



24 Food and Feeding. 

these requirements is a complete or perfect food. 
Examples of complete food exist in milk and the 
egg, sufficing as these do for all the wants, of the 
young animal during the period of early growth. 
Nevertheless, a single animal product like either of 
the two named, although complex in itself, is not 
more perfect than an artificial combination of various 
simpler substances, provided the mixture (dish or 
meal) contains all the elements required in due pro- 
portion for the purposes of the body. 

Now, as above seen, all these constituent elements 
of the food, the proteids, the fats, arid the carbo- 
hydrates, together with the inorganic salts, may be ob- 
tained both from the animal and vegetable kingdoms. 

The wide range of animals available in the endless 
Animal forms of " flesh, fish, and fowl," to name 

sources, them in popular terms, need not be 

further enumerated at present. This subject will be 
more fully considered hereafter. 

The vegetable kingdom may be held to corn- 
vegetable prehend the following list : the cere^s, 
sources, namely, wheat, oats, barley, maize, rice, 

etc. ; the legumes ; the nuts and their oil ; roots and 
tubers ; starches, gums, and sugars j green vegetables, 
herbs, and fruits. 

But there is a marked difference in the kind of 

vary in value P^'o^is^o" afforded on comparing the 

and in products of the two kingdoms. While 

the vegetable kingdom is conspicuous 

for the plenty and value of the carbo-hydrates present, 



Vegetable Food, its Components. 25 

it will be seen that the proteids, as well as the fats, 
are not only less bountifully supplied, but exist in 
a form generally not so well adapted for man's 
digestion as those which are obtained from the 
animal kingdom. The most valuable proteid of the 
vegetable kingdom, since it is easily assimilated by 
the human stomach, is furnished in moderate quantity 
by certain members of the cereal class 
above named, viz. " gluten," and is con- 
sumed for the most part here in the form of wheaten 
bread. Next comes the extensive order of leguminous 
plants, beans, peas, and lentils, which, containing a 
very considerable amount of the proteid 
" legumin," or " vegetable casein," furnish ^Sumin. 
cheap and excellent food, although inferior to wheaten 
bread, which contains less of the nitrogenous element. 
It is quite true that chemical analysis shows the 
presence of a larger proportion of that element, the 
legumin, in dried peas, lentils, or haricots, than is 
found in an equal weight of butcher's meat, of its 
corresponding proteid. But, on the other hand, 
none of the former furnish a proteid in so digestible 
a form as that of beef or mutton, many human 
stomachs failing to digest easily the leguminous 
product.* From the flesh of animals man acquires its 

* For further information respecting this indubitable fact, 
see the work below named, where it is attentively and impartially 
considered. The tabulated result is given of carefully made 
experiments by Fr. Hofmann, on the power of man's digestive 
organs to assimilate the nitrogenous elements (albumen) from 
animal and vegetable sources respectively. From the data 



26 Food and Feeding. 

products readily, and if he happen to be a delicate 

invalid, unable to digest solid food, an 
Superiority . , . , , , -^i 

of animal infusion of the meat, together with some 

proteids. ^^^^^ ^j ^j^^ ^^^y^^ ^jjj yj^jj sustenance 

of the greatest value in an easily assimilated form. 

No such treatment of the beans will produce an 

equivalent, and their special proteid "casein," like 

cheese, its congener in milk, is then quite unsuitable. 

The lower animals, living on vegetables only, have 

stomachs and allied organs widely differing from our 

own, specially adapted to deal with vegetable foods, 

and to convert them into flesh. Thus it is that oxen 

and sheep, exclusively vegetable feeders as they are, 

consuming only grass and a few roots, produce 

largely and rapidly the necessary proteids in the 

form of flesh, as man himself is wholly incapable of 

doing, and meat thus becomes for him a concentrated 

food of exceeding value, admirably adapted to his 

digestive system. The need for an 
Valuable 
to the abundant supply of easily digestible 

a ourer. proteids to sustain the hard-working 

inhabitants of the British islands is obvious. And 

hence it is, that almost all those who ordinarily 

supplied, it appears that while four-fifths of the albumen con- 
sumed from animal sources are digested (Si parts in the loo), 
not quite half (46'6 in the loo) is digested of albumen derived 
from vegetable sources, cereals, legumes, etc. This is cor- 
roborated by other experiments made by Rubner. 

" Food in Health and Disease,'' by I. Burney Yeo, M.D. 
F.R.C.P., Physician to King's College Hospital, etc. (Cassell! 
1896), p. 148, et seq. 



The Child Reared on Milk, 27 

classify themselves as "vegetarians," a numerous 

body of earnest adlierents to a rule which Hence 

forbids them to eat flesh, are mostly T^?^^'. 

' ' tanans" use 

compelled to consume not only milk, them largely, 
butter, and cheese, but also eggs,* all of which are 
nevertheless choice foods from the animal kingdom. 
In these the proteids are largely present, 
also fats in abundance, and in forms 
better adapted to the human stomach than are olive- 
oil, cotton-seed oil, and various nut-oils, the fats of 
the vegetable world. 

It is most desirable, therefore, that an intelligible 
definition should be framed to indicate nve^e- 

accurately the diet thus erroneously de- tarian,"a 

. misleading 

scribed as " vegetarian. This can only and inaccu- 

denote a dietary containing foods pro- used by a 

duced by the vegetable kingdom, and '^""^^ c\a.%s. 

can by no possibility be accurately, that is, honestly, 

used to include anything else. At any rate, it must, 

before all things, exclude the use of the specific 

proteids and fats, which animals have produced in 

a concentrated form (milk) for the pur- ,,.„ 

^ / ^ Milk, con- 
pose of insuring a healthy, rapid, and centrated 

^, r ^, . rt • animal food, 
generous growth for their offspring, 

when they are too young to eat any vegetable food, 

and could not digest it if they did. In no single 

* Every egg contains a chicken ! that is, the entire material 
wherewith to make one ; and requires nothing to produce a 
living animal but a little rise of temperature, 103° or 104° Fahr., 
either naturally or artificially apphed. 



28 Food and Feeding. 

instance is the young of the mammals, to which 

necessary for ^'^^^'^ "^^^ belongs, capable of feeding 

infant life on any vegetable product, whether 

through- , .-.„,, , , , . 

out the natural or artificially blended, during in- 

mammals. ^^^^ ^^^ ^^^.j^. childhood. And when 
the mother's milk is deficient, or naturally ceases, that 
of the cow, slightly modified, but containing animal 
proteids, fats, carbo-hydrates, and salts, best serves to 
maintain healthy condition, and confer full growing 
power on the young and active animal. All forms 
of vegetables are non-digestible by the infantile 
organs, and when given too early, as they not 
infrequently are, produce great disturbance, diarrhoea, 
colic, and, by no means rarely, fatal results. Not 
until some teeth have appeared is the child, as a 
rule, ready to make its first trial of vegetable food ; 
and, for the first year, or even more, of life, it will 
generally thrive better on wholesome milk than on 

.. . any substitute. Thus man is born into 

Man bom 

an animal the world a consumer of animal food, 

and it is for the "vegetarian" to show 

cause for determining at what age, if at any, he 

should henceforth be compelled to restrict himself 

to a diet from the vegetable kingdom. 

In another form of abstention — viz. that from 

alcohol in all its forms — which has been of great 

service, and might be far more largely extended, 

with incalculable advantage to the community, the 

practice is clear and defined. The " total abstainer " 

means what he says, and does not take his daily or 



Which is an Animal Food. 29 

occasional glass of wine or beer unless strongly 

advised by his doctor, and by no means always then. 

The term "vegetarian" will, assuredly, 

"Vege- 
soon cease to have a meaning, if clearly tarian," 

drawn definitions be not adopted to dis- ^^g^for^those 

tinguish the man who consumes only who consume 

, . , , a mixed diet, 

products of the vegetable kingdom, from 

the man who adds thereto the animal proteids and 
fats which exist richly in eggs, in milk and its 
derivatives. The two individuals support really means 
life on wholly different dietetic principles ; "» n">re than 
the latter being certainly a " mixed feeder " and not 
a vegetarian. It is no part of my duty to discover 
an appropriate definition ; but, in view of the present 
loose practice in regard to dietary, the terms " a 
vegetarian" and simply "a flesh ab- «flesh 
stainer," appear correctly to indicate abstainer." 
respectively the two classes I have described. 

And here let it be remarked that there are indi- 
viduals, a few perhaps, in this country, Many are 
who are strictly vegetable-eaters ; while vegetarians 
large populations exist on little else in inthetropics. 
the tropics, where a small proportion of animal food 
only is consumed, and that mostly fat. On the other 
hand, in northern latitudes, little or in high 
nothing besides animal food is attainable, v^*g"<^rfa^^ 
and a vegetarian diet, if procurable, would cannot exist, 
not sustain life in those regions. For climate is an 
important factor in relation to food. Man, wherever 
he exists, has to maintain his body at a constant 



30 Food and Feeding. 

temperature of at least 98° Fahr. ; and it is obvious 
that an enormous difference must exist between the 
needs of the individual who lives near the equator 
with all surrounding objects, at a constant tempera- 
ture of 85° to 95°, and those of one who inhabits 
northern latitudes, where it is continuously below the 
freezing-point, 32°, often to the extent of many 
degrees. In each case the temperature of the body 
must be maintained at 98°, or a little more, or man 
will cease to exist. In the large and populous zone 
we inhabit, which forms so extensive a portion of 
Europe, Asia, South Africa, America, and Australasia, 
and very few and is known as the "Temperate Zone," 
tSnperate*^ there are very few persons, indeed, who 
zones. can sustain their health and a fair amount 

of strength for many years on a strictly vegetable 
diet. I have met with a few, but a very few, indi- 
viduals who have been able to assure me that they 
have long enjoyed continuous good health and 
strength upon a diet of bread, made solely from 
flour or meal of any kind, and water, the best green 
vegetables, roots, and fruits, avoiding all milk, butter, 
cheese, and eggs. Hence, it is only possible to 
regard man — considered as an inhabitant of the 
world at large — and manifesting as he does a strong 
and increasing impulse to explore and colonize in 

Man i ^"^ ^^"^ °^ ^^ globe, as now naturally 

naturally omnivorous ; in other words, possessed 

omnivorous. r ^-i. ^. , . , 

01 a constitution which requires a mixed 

diet of animal and vegetable foods for his well-being, 



Man naturally Omnivorous. 31 

in relative proportions varying according to tempera- 
ture and activity of life. 

This conclusion is not to be determined by 
inferences drawn from the nature of his teeth, which 
may perhaps offer some indications, but by no 
means any decisive evidence respecting the question, 
although the character of his stomach and intestinal 
canal prove the accuracy of the state- Anatomical 
ments here made. In any case, evidence, 
anatomical evidence only indicates the results of 
a long course of development in the organs of a 
given animal, adapting it to the circumstances by 
which it has been surrounded, with the accommoda- 
tions of structure which have enabled it to survive 
in its struggle for existence, to occupy a prominent 
place in the fauna of its country. The history of 
man's passage through the stages of what is under- 
stood by civilization, indicates that he has gradually 
extended his resources in the matter of food, and 
has long been omnivorous to the extent which cir- 
cumstances have permitted. The present condition 
of his digestive organs as a whole is but the expres- 
sion of what his environments and his energy through 
long ages of evolution have made him. 

In the same manner, the great vegetable feeders 
have acquired special arrangements Anatomical 
already referred to in the "compound Sf^evS" 
stomachs" of the numerous and im- table feeders, 
portant varieties of " ruminating " animals ; and some, 
like the rabbit, for example, have an enormously large 



32 Food and Feeding. 

caecum, which is utilized for the digestion of the 
bulky green food they consume ; while the corre- 
sponding organ in the human subject exists in little 
more than name, being merely a slight dilatation of 
the large intestine. 

For it is a significant and important physiological 
fact, that the digestive apparatus of an animal must 
correspond to the extent of change which its food 
has to undergo in order to convert it into the flesh 
which constitutes the animal consuming it. 

Thus if grass, which is very low in the scale of 
vegetable growths, has to be converted into the 
highly composite animal fibre constituting beef and 
mutton, a long and complicated apparatus is required. 
It consists of four stomachs, from the first of which 
after eating, the food is returned into the mouth 
during the act of "chewing the cud," after which it 
is transmitted in turn through the other three, a 
process which confers the characteristic distinction 
of " ruminant " upon the animals referred to. No 
human stomach under any circumstances has the 
power of effecting the changes in question. 

The carnivore, living exclusively on flesh, requires 
for his purpose nothing more than the digestion and 
assimilation of animal tissues identical with those 
already composing his own body. This process, com- 
pared with that above described, is a very simple 
one; and accordingly the stomach and digestive 
organs are far less complex in structure. 

Man holds a position between the two extremes, 



The Diet of Monkeys. 33 

with his varied surroundings and his ability to select 
and adapt ; for he possesses the power to support 
life by consuming the best products of the vegetable 
kingdom, and also all animal foods, suitable to his 
purpose and tastes. The animal fibres of fishes, birds, 
and tender meat, with the concentrated extracts of 
the latter, being identical in nature and form with 
the structures of his own body, are assimilated with 
greater ease than the nitrogenous products of the 
vegetable kingdom. His digestive apparatus is more 
highly developed than that of the carnivore, but more 
closely resembles it than the complicated apparatus 
of the exclusively vegetable feeder. 

Man is therefore manifestly adapted for a mixed 
diet from the animal and vegetable kingdom, and 
must be regarded beyond all controversy as an 
omnivorous animal. 

In respect of teeth, stomach, and intestine, the 
human type closely corresponds with that which 
predominates among the various species of monkey, 
the caecum being rather larger in monkeys than it 
is in man. Monkeys are often spoken The monkey 
of as living exclusively on vegetable ^i^ed 
diet, but this is very far from the truth, feeders. 
Moreover, the four genera of anthropoid apes which 
more nearly approach man than any other, viz. the 
gibbons, the orang-outang, gorilla, and chimpanzee, 
in a state of nature obtain their sustenance from 
both animal and vegetable sources.* The numerous 

* See " Anthropoid Apes," by Robert Hartmann, Prof. Univ. 



34 Food and Feeding. 

species of smaller monkeys, as well as the great 
baboons, all ranking lower in the scale of approach 
to man, live largely on insects * and small lizards, 
which abound in the African and South American 
forests ; the baboons preying on eggs and young 
Thelarg-e birds. The large anthropoids, just re- 
anthropoids, ferred to, also eat eggs and birds as 
well as small mammals, whenever they can get them, 
in addition to the fruits and nuts which form the 
great staple of their diet. Their mode of life, largely 
spent on the branches and higher parts of lofty trees, 
affords them great facilities for obtaining such food. 

Few people are aware that the large chimpanzee, 
The chim- so popular and well known as " Sally," 
and^r ''"^ i" t^i<^ Zoological Gardens, was not in- 
Berlin. frequently supplied with animal food, 

which she evidently consumed with great satisfaction. 
It has been observed also that the gorillas and 
chimpanzees in the Zoological Gardens at Berlin 
have a marked preference for animal food, of which 
they enjoy a small proportion. As above noticed, 
their organization indicates that while they are 
certainly " mixed feeders " — that is, obtain their food 
from both the animal and vegetable kingdoms — they 
have been accustomed to consume a larger proportion 
of vegetable matter than is now usually adopted by 

Berlin. Translated as vol. liii. in " International Scientific 
Series." London : Kegan Paul and Co., 1885. Pp. 227-255. 

* Hence the small monkeys at the Zoological Gardens have 
a daily supply of meal worms, to afford the necessary small but 
important animal contribution to their dietary. 



Too much Flesh often Eaten. 35 

man. And lastly, having regard to the evidence 
which inquiries into pre-historic records m^n's early 
of man's life have revealed, as well as to progenitors, 
our knowledge of his existence since, with what we 
have learned respecting the habits of savage tribes 
of recent date, it is impossible to doubt that his 
diet has long been derived from both animal and 
vegetable kingdoms. The chase was a favourite pur- 
suit and supplied a certain quantity of animal food, 
always regarded as a welcome addition to the roots 
and fruits which must doubtless have largely con- 
tributed to sustain his daily life. 

At the same time, I cannot doubt that more flesh 
is consumed by a large part of our existing population 
than is absolutely necessary or desirable. But this 
is mostly to be observed among those who possess 
ample means, and whose employments do not neces- 
sarily demand great muscular exertion, „, 

■^ *= The use of 

exposure in all weathers, or other causes flesh liable 

of wear and tear to the animal tissues. 
Where exercise is very largely taken and manual 
labour is hard and prolonged, the concentrated and 
easily digested proteids of flesh are the most valuable 
food for man's purpose. Where there is but little 
physical labour or activity, a smaller proportion is 
mostly advisable ; and a better state of bodily health 
may be generally assured by adopting an animal 
food— fish, poultry, and game, for example — less rich 
perhaps in proteids, and especially so in fat, than 
are beef or mutton, together with a considerable 



36 Food and Feeding. 

proportion of the products of vegetable origin. The 

selection, however, has to be judiciously made. 

Theoretically, the vegetable eater, pure 

tarianism ' ^nd simple, can doubtless find in his 

lomlln"'^""^ dietary all the principles adapted for 

certain the growth and support of the body as 

conditions. . , 

well as for the production of neat and 

energy, provided that he selects vegetable growths 

that contain all the essential elements named ; but 

he should also possess that precious but somewhat 

rare endowment, an unimpaired and naturally strong 

digestion, capable of assimilating enough to support 

a fair average amount of activity. His life should 

be largely spent in the pure open air of the country, 

and he should select certain proportions of wheaten 

bread, oatmeal, and dried lentils, peas and beans, 

say with macaroni as a change, for the staple of his 

diet, chiefly to supply proteids, some carbo-hydrates 

and salts ; moderate quantities of potato, rice, sago, 

fruits, and vegetables as supplementary carbo-hydrates 

and salts ; and maize in the form of polenta, and 

olive oil with salads to furnish additional fats. In 

this way all the necessary elements are obtained and 

in due proportion, so that the total sum of food per 

diem is not too bulky, which a strict vegetarian diet 

Example of is prone to become ; otherwise he must 

hydrates in swallow and digest a large weight of 

excess. vegetable matter of less nutritive value, 

and therefore containing at least one element in 

large excess, in order to obtain all the elements he 



Many thrive on Cereals and Milk. 2)1 

needs. Thus the Irishman, if confined solely to a 

potato diet, would require for his support from twelve 

to fifteen pounds daily, which contain chiefly starch 

— a superfluous quantity, and an overload for any 

stomach — in order to obtain a barely sufficient 

quantity of nitrogen of which this tuber contains 

so little, with scarcely any fat. Hence he eats less 

of the potatoes, and obtains when he can milk, lard, 

bacon, or a herring to supply the deficiency. The 

Highlander, living mainly on oatmeal, requires a 

very much smaller weight, since this grain contains 

not only starch, but a moderate amount of nitrogen 

and fat, although not sufficient for his purpose ; hence 

it is usually supplied by adding milk, and fish or 

bacon also when he can obtain them. 

No doubt there is, as all observation in every 

department of natural history testifies, 

a great variety of results in comparing there is great 

the individuals of any species, their ^^i^^^^ 

wants, qualities, and endowments, etc. tastes of 
A , ,.,, . , individnals. 

And no differences are greater m regard 

to such particulars than those which are manifested 
by man himself, the famous dictum notwithstanding, 
which declares his " equality " with his fellows, what- 
ever that inay be taken to signify. And thus it may 
be admitted that some persons are stronger and 
more healthy who live very largely on vegetables, 
while there are many others for whom a proportion 
of animal food appears not merely to be desirable 
but absolutely necessary. On the other hand, the 



38 Food and Feeding. 

man who lives on a well-chosen mixed diet con- 
The perfect taining about the due proportion of pro- 
diet is an teids, fats, carbo-hydrates, and mineral 
adequate , , ., 
supply of constituents to support the daily require- 

fn due^'^°^°* ments of an average activity, without stint 
proportion. ^^ ^^ ^^^ hand, or over supply on the 
other, will require a total of only two or three pounds 
of solid food as a perfect equivalent.* In studying this 
matter, individual habit must be taken into account. 
Again, an animal feeder may by slow degrees accustom 
himself to a diet chiefly vegetable, without loss of 
weight or strength, not without feeling some incon- 
venience in the process ; but a sudden change in diet 
in this direction is for a time almost equivalent to 
starvation. The digestive organs require a consider- 
able period to accommodate themselves to the per- 
formance of work different from that to which they 
have been long accustomed ; while many persons, 
although able to diminish considerably the proportion 
of animal food, cannot relinquish it altogether without 
manifest injury to health. 

Moreover, in matters of diet essentially, many 
persons have individual peculiarities ; and while cer- 
tain fixed principles exist, such as those already laid 
down as absolutely cardinal, in the detail of their 
application to each man's wants, an infinity of 
stomach-eccentricities will be encountered if the 
sphere of observation is considerable. The old 
proverb expresses the fact strongly but truly : " What 
* See tables on pp. 59, 60. 



Individual Peculiarities. 39 

is one man's meat is another man's poison." Yet 

nothing is more common — and one rarely 

, . , ,. , , . , No universal 

leaves a social dmner table without rule appli- 

observing it — than to hear some good- ^ etoal. 

natured person recommending to his neighbour, with 

a confidence rarely found except in alliance with 

profound ignorance of the matter in 

, J • T /■ r /■ 1 Great indi- 

nand, some special form of food, or vidualvariety 

drink, or system of diet, solely because dli^'?*'"'' ^^ 

the adviser happens to have found it power and 

useful to himself. More rationally might 

the adviser recommend the universal use of a hat 

moulded to the form of his own head, or of a boot 

made on the last contrived for his own tender foot ! 

For the differences between the parts just named in 

different individuals are far less, and are also much 

more easily estimated than the differences to be met 

with in their digestive organs, and in the capabilities 

with which these organs are endowed. 

Finally, I think we should carefully consider the 

question whether it is prudent or desir- ,„, ,. .^ 
^ Why limit 

able to accept vegetarian limitations to man's 

, . 1 I.- i r J • resources? 

man s resources in relation to food m 

face of the world's rapidly increasing populations. 
Flesh, as heretofore shown, is a most useful concen- 
trated form of nutritious elements, easily portable in 
small compass, already cooked, and easily digestible 
under many conditions, in which vegetable foods 
cannot be readily obtained, or are too bulky for 
transport, or more difficult to cook than the former. 



40 Food and Feeding. 

Would any commander be justified in accepting the 
responsibility of chartering a large 
siScS'in vessel freighted with passengers and 
which animal ^rew for a three months' voyage, with a 
absolutely commissariat solely supplied with vege- 
tarian produce ? Even with the additions 
of those animal foods, milk, butter, cheese, and eggs, 
which are so much used and so unwarrantably in- 
cluded under the denomination of vegetarian diet, it 
would be a rash proceeding. Still more the attempt 
to sustain an army in the field with similar rations. 

And why should man be required to reject alto- 
Why reject gether the entire animal life of the sea, 
produce oT* where Nature affords bounteous supplies 
the sea? of wholesome food on every habitable 

shore? The limitation of our food resources is in 
no sense desirable, but on the contrary is at this 
stage of the world's progress a flagrant anachronism. 
Man's enormously increased travelling facilities tend 
to render him naturally more cosmopolitan, more 
versatile in his tastes, appetites, and capabilities, and 
he can only gain advantage from a widened ex- 
perience of new foods from both kingdoms, which 
modern enterprise must in time develop. The very 
idea of restricting our resources and supplies is a 
step backwards— a distinct reversion to the rude and 
distant savagery of the past, a sign of decadence 
rather than of advance. 

Let us have all the world can be made to produce ; 
it will yet yield new and useful, possibly even better 



Why limit Sources of Food? 41 

foods than those of the past, to the scientific inquirer, 
be he animal-breeder, agriculturist, or gardener, and 
furnish additional proof that wisdom lies in accepting 
every form of wholesome food from whatever source, 
and without limiting the bounty of Nature in any. 



CHAPTER II. 

Materials at man's command for food from the vegetable 
kingdom — Seeds cultivated becoming grain, or cereal foods, 
as wheat and its derivatives, flour, wheaten bread — Oats 
and oatmeal — Maize and Indian corn meal, polenta — Rice 
— Legumes : haricots and lentils, etc. — Potato — Roots, the 
carrot, etc., arrowroot — Fatty matters from seeds, nuts, etc. 
— Green vegetables — Gourds — Fungi — Fruits and bananas 
— ^Analyses of their composition, showing comparative 
amounts of proteids, carbo-hydrates, fats, salts, and water 
— Sugar — Tea, coffee, and cacao — Common salt — Import- 
ance of perfect mastication of food by the teeth in relation 
to digestion explained and insisted upon. 

It will be interesting now to take a general but brief 
The survey of the vast range of. materials 

mln'in^rela- which civilized man has at his command 
tion to food, for the purpose of food : the foregoing 
remarks on the chemical constituents of food and 
their relation to the needs of the human body having 
been intended to aid us in further appreciating the 
value of different kinds. 

Commencing with the vegetable kingdom, the 

The cereals, ^^^^^^^^ ^"^^5 of man, during long ages, 

as already seen, obtained much of their 

sustenance from seeds, herbs, roots, and fruits, in 

addition to their gains by hunting and fishing. As 



Vegetable Foods, the Cereals. 43 

the art of cultivating the first-named was acquired, 
the cereals appeared as improvements on the seed- 
bearing grasses, and now conspicuously take the first 
place, as containing nearly all the elements necessary 
to life, and being therefore the most largely con- 
sumed. Wheat and its congeners, which rank 
highest in quality, had been distinguished, in the 
form of bread, as " the staff of life," long before 
the physiological demonstration of the fact had been 
attained. Wheat, oats, rye and barley, maize and 
rice, are the chief members of this group, wheat 
containing most of the nitrogenous or flesh-forming 
material, besides abundance of starch, a very small 
amount of fat, together with sufficient saline and 
mineral elements. 



I. Composition of Wheat. 

Proteids 12 '42 

Carbo-hydrates 70'S3 

Fats 170 

Salts 179 

Water .... . . I3'S6 



lOO'OO 



2. Flour. 

Proteids io-8 

Carbo-hydrates 7o'S 

Fats 2-0 

Salts 17 

Water iS'o 

1 00-0 



44 Food and Feeding. 

3. Composition of Wh eaten Bread. 

Proteids 8-1 

Carbo-hydrates 5i'o 

Fatty matter i -6 

Mineral matter 23 

Water 37-0 

loo-o 



4. Oatmeal. 

Proteids I2'6 

Carbo-hydrates 63"8 

Fats 5-6 

Salts 3'o 

Water 15-0 

lOO'O 



5. Indian Corn Meal. 

Proteids ii-i 

Carbo-hydrates 65 'i 

Fats 8-1 

Salts i"j 

Water 14-0 

ICXJ'O 



6. Rice. 

Proteids 6-3 

Carbo-hydrates 70-5 

Fats 07 

Salts o"5 

Water 13-0 

vxro 



Legumes, Tubers, Roots. 45 

7. Legumes— Haricots and Lentils (almost alike). 

Proteids 25 •; 

Carbo-hydrates 58'6 

Fats 2-8 

Salts 3-2 

Water 9-9 

lOO'O 

8. Tubers— Potato. 

Proteids 2-1 

Carbo-hydrates 22-0 

Fats o'2 

Salts 07 

Water 75-0 

lOO'O 

9. Roots — Carrots and Parsnips (almost alike). 

Proteids 1-3 

Carbo-hydrates .... 14-5 

Fats 0-2 

Salts I'o 

Water 83-0 

1000 
Turnips are almost the same, but water no less than go'o.* 

Rice, on the other hand, contains but a moderate 

share of proteids, almost no fats and 

. that which 

mineral constituents, but starch in great the cereals 

abundance ; while maize, with a good "™'^ ' 

supply of proteids and starchy matter, contains the 

most fatty material of the whole group. As derived 

* I am indebted for the above analyses, etc., to Dr. Pavy's 
encyclopEEdic work, entitled "A Treatise on Food and Dietetics." 
Churchill. 



46 Food and Feeding. 

from wheat must be named those valuable aliments, 
macaroni, vermicelli, and all the Italian pastes. De- 
rived from barley is malt-saccharine, parent of the 
large family of fermented liquors known as beer. 
And from various other grains are obtained by 
fermentation and distillation, several forms of ardent 
spirit. Vinegar, best when produced from the grape, 
is also largely made from grain. Millet, dhoora, and 
buckwheat are all lower but useful members of the 
cereal group, and feed large populations in Eastern 
Africa and India. 

The legumes, such as beans, lentils, and peas, 

„. form a valuable aliment, containinsf more 

The legu- . , / , . „x , 

minous proteids ("legumm ) even than the 

^ ^" ■ cereals, but with fat in small proportion, 

while starchy matter and the mineral elements 

abound in both groups. 

The tuber finds its type in the potato, which 

Tubers contains far less of proteids than rice, 

and roots. rnuch starch, and almost no fat, few 

mineral salts, no less than three-fourths of the 

weight being water ; the same may be said of the 

yam also. The roots may be illustrated by the beet, 

carrot, parsnip, and turnip, all containing little 

nitrogen, no fat, but much sugar, and water in very 

large proportion. Derived from roots and stems of 

foreign growth, we have arrowroot, tapioca, and sago, 

all pure starches and destitute of nitro- 
Oils and fat. „ 

gen. Fatty matter is abundantly found 

in the olive, which supplies a large part of the world 



Oils, Greens, Nuts,, Bananas. 47 

with an important article of food. The almond and 
other seeds, as rape, cotton, mustard, are also fruitful 
sources of oil. 

Under the term " green vegetables," a few leading 
plants may be enumerated as types of The green 
the vast natural supplies which every- vegetables, 
where exist : — The entire cabbage tribe in great 
variety ; lettuces, endive, and cresses ; spinach, sea- 
kale, asparagus, celery, onions, artichokes, and tomato, 
all valuable not so much for nutritive property, which, 
is not considerable, as for admixture with other food, 
chiefly on account of salts which they contain, and 
for their appetizing aroma and varied flavours. 

Thus condiments are useful, as the 

... Condiments, 

sweet and aromatic spices, the peppers, 

mustard, and the various potherbs, so essential to 
an agreeable cuisine. Seaweeds, under Seaweeds, 
the name of laver, and the whole tribe -"^jg nuts 
of mushrooms, should be named, as breadfruit, 
ranking much higher in nutritive value than green 
vegetables ; while truffles contain a still larger amount 
of the nitrogenous element. Pumpkins, gourds or mar- 
rows, and cucumbers are useful adjuncts to the dietary, 
especially in warm countries ; while chestnuts and 
other nuts contribute to the support of life in Spain and 
the eastern shores of the Mediterranean, and acorns 
also are still serviceable in some parts. The bread 
fruit is of high value ; so also are the cocoanut and 
the banana in tropical climates, all containing valuable 
proteids and carbo-hydrates. 



48 Food and Feeding. 

Lastly must be named all those delicious but not 
very nutritive products of most varied 
and their kind and source, grouped under the 

enva ives. name of fruits. These are characterized 
chiefly by the presence of sugar, acid, vegetable 
jelly, the principle of which is known as " pectine," 
and valuable saline matters, often combined with 
scent and flavour of exquisite quality. Most contain, 
e.g. apples and pears, grapes, cherries, strawberries, 
gooseberries, plums and peaches, about 80 to 86 
per cent, of water with free acid, and varying pro- 
portions of sugar. Derived from grapes as its chief 
source, stands wine in its innumerable varieties, so 
closely associated by all civilized nations with the 
use of aliments, although not universally admitted 
to rank in technical language as a food. Next may 
be named sugar itself in its various forms, a non- 
nitrogenous product of great dietetic value, and, in 
a less degree, honey. No less important, from a 
Tea, coffee, different point of view, are the tea plant, 
cacao. the coffee berry, and the seeds of the 

cacao tree, source of cocoa and chocolate, owing to 
the presence in each of the two former of an element 
known as " caffeine," a mild and agreeable stimulant 
promoting mental activity. An analogous element, 
theobromine, distinguishes the cacaonut. 

There is a single element belonging to the mineral 
Common kingdom which is taken in its natural 

salt. state as an addition to food, namely, 

common salt ; and it is so universally recognized as 



The Act of Mastication. 49 

necessary, that it cannot be omitted here. The 
foregoing list possesses no claim to be exhaustive, 
only to be fairly typical and suggestive; a few 
omissions, which some may think important, doubt- 
less exist. In like manner, a rapid survey may be 
taken of the animal kingdom. 

Before quitting this, however, I shall add a few 
observations on the process of eating, Pfocessof 
which is in itself too important to be eating, 
left without some consideration. For it has a 
special relation to the great classes of cereal foods 
and tubers, not popularly known as it deserves to 

be. The act of mastication by means „ 

, , , , . Mastication, 

of the teeth and tongue, exerts an m- 

fluence of two kinds on the food during its transit 

through the mouth. Primarily, of course, 

4.1, • ^u u • 1 ffl 1 First object, 

there is the mechanical process of finely 

dividing all solid matters before they are swallowed. 
And that is the sole effect produced on flesh of all 
kinds, and is essential to good digestion, so that it can 
be acted upon easily when it arrives in the stomach, 
where it is exposed to the chemical action of the 
gastric juice and prolonged moist heat about 98°. 
But with another class of foods, the carbo-hydrates, 
chiefly starch, largely derived from grain of all kinds, 
and, therefore, all forms of bread, biscuit, and fari- 
naceous pudding, the act of mastication performs 
much more than merely mechanical second 
division. For by means of the saliva object; 
poured out during that process, and the peculiar 

D 



50 Food and Feeding. 

principle, "ptyalin," which it contains, a specific 

digestive action takes place on the starch, which, 

^03t being naturally insoluble in water, is 

important. t-jjus converted into a soluble material 

called "glucose," and so prepared for absorption 

into the system. In fact, by a proper amount of 

mastication, all starches should have undergone this 

change, or nearly so, before they arrive 

does not in the stomach, which does not deal 

taffefo^oT^" ■^ith them. Any resulting deficiency 

nor any of which may have occurred through hasty 
the starches. ' , 

or inefficient mastication in the mouth, 

cannot be remedied until after they have left the 

stomach and entered the first intestine, where they 

meet with the juices of the pancreas, which complete 

the process. 

These facts should never be forgotten, and to 

Mastication *^^ ^"'^ °"Sht to be taught, among 

the neces- other elementary rules of health, in very 
sary prelimi- , ,.. . . . 

nary to early life, smce thorough mastication of 

iges ion. ^jj j-^^j jg essential to our well being. 
The child should be made to practice this, not only 
when eating meat, but for soft foods, such as 
potatoes, bread, and even farinaceous puddings, in 
order to ensure the easy performance of digestion, 
the failure of which, in later life, is so often due to 
the early habit of swallowing rapidly and thought- 
lessly large masses of unchewed food. 



CHAPTER III. 

Foods from the animal kingdom — Domestic animals and their 
derivatives, milk, butter, and cheese — Deer and its varieties 
— Ground-game — Large foreign game— Birds, domestic 
and other — Fish in great variety — " Shell-fish " — Reptiles — 
Man omnivorous ; nature of food largely determined by 
circumstances — Prone to consume too much animal food, 
or to be careless in regard to selection of diet — Table 
showing the proportion of food-principles necessary to the 
daily dietary of an average adult, taking a moderate amount 
of exercise, in a temperate climate. 

I SHALL here offer a brief sketch of man's chief 
resources in the matter of food derived from the 
animal kingdom. 

First, the flesh of domestic quadrupeds : the ox 
and sheep, both adult and young ; the Animal 
pig ; the goat ; the horse and ass, chiefly ^°f "f°" 
in France. Milk, butter, and cheese in milk and its 
great variety are derived chiefly from derivatives, 
this group. More or less wild are the red deer, 
the fallow deer, and the roe-deer. As 
ground-game, the hare and rabbit ; while 
abroad, the bison, wild boar, bear, chamois, reindeer, 
and kangaroo are esteemed for food among civilized 
nations ; but many other animals are eaten by 



52 Food and Feeding. 

half-civilized and savage peoples, among which are 
the buffalo, elephant, beaver, whale, seal, tortoise, and 
crocodile ; also locusts and many other insects may 
be named. All these are rich in proteids, fatty 
matters, and saline materials. 

Among birds, we have domestic poultry in great 
Poultry. variety of size and quality, with eggs 

Eggs. in abundance furnished chiefly by this 

class ; all the wild fowl and aquatic birds ; the 
pigeon tribe, the quail, and the smaller birds ; winged 
game in all its well-known variety. 

Of fish it is unnecessary to enumerate the enormous 
supply and the various species which 
exist everywhere, and especially on our 
own shores, from the sturgeon to whitebait, besides 
those in fresh-water rivers and lakes. All of them 
furnish nitrogenous matter largely, but, and par- 
ticularly the white fish, possess fat in very small 
quantity, with a fair proportion of saline materials. 
The salmon, mackerel, eels, and herring tribes, in- 
cluding the pilchards, sprats, sardines, and anchovies, 
have more fat, the last-named in considerable 
quantity, forming a useful food well calculated to 
supplement cereal aliments, and largely adopted for 
the purpose both in the south and north of Europe. 
The cod-fishery furnishes an important source of 
food ; like some other fish, the cod contains large 
quantities of oil in its liver only, its flesh, when in 
season, containing a very small proportion. 

The so-called reptiles furnish turtle, tortoise, and 



Animal Foods used by Man. 53 

edible frog. Among articulated animals are the 
lobsters, crabs, and shrimps, which fur- Reptiles and 
nish a large amount of proteids, but are articulata. 
not generally very easily digested. Among molluscs, 
the oyster and all the " shell-fish," so- Molluscs or 
called, which, as well as the above- "shell-fish." 
named, closely resemble, in chemical composition, 
that of fish properly so-called. 

Amidst this profusion of supply from the varied 
products of the animal and vegetable ]yia„'searl 

kingdoms, man's selection must have experience 

,.,.,. , . in selecting 

been made, in different climes, almost material for 

entirely by individual experiment with °° ' 

the materials nearest to his hand. Having no certain 

knowledge of the structure and functions of his body, 

or of the relation of food thereto acquired other than 

empirically, the process must have been progress 

often marked by failure, sometimes with ®'°^" 

injury to the experimenter. And progress has 

doubtless been extremely slow. 

At the present time, man appears for the most 

part to consume more in quantity than „ . 

is necessary for the healthy perform- persons eat 

, , ... . , , too much, 

ance of the animal functions. More- 
over, he has little knowledge of, or interest in, the 
processes by which food is prepared for Few men 
the table, or the conditions necessary to ^iiowleJge 
the healthy digestion of it by himself, of food, 
Until a tolerably high standard of civilization is 
reached, he cares more for quantity than quality, 



54 Food and Feeding. 

desires little variety, and, if immersed in engrossing 
pursuits as so many must be, is disposed to regard 
any innovation in the shape of a new aliment as 

impertinent, preferring the same food at 
in its the same hour daily, his enjoyment of 

which apparently depends greatly on his 
ability to swallow the portion with extreme rapidity, 
that he may apply himself to other and more im- 
portant occupation without delay. Eating is treated in 
fact by multitudes much as they are disposed to treat 
religious duty — for eating is indeed one of the most 
important of all duties if my opening remarks are 
true — namely, as an observance which is generally 
irksome, but unfortunately necessary to be performed. 
Men even boast of their ignorance of so trivial a 
subject, regard it as unworthy the exercise of their 
powers, and — small compliment to their wives and 
sisters — fit only for the occupation of women. 

We shall find it an interesting inquiry to ascertain 

what materials, under the empirical con- 
Food 
depends ditions named, have furnished the staple 

on climate. r j r ^i i i- • 

food of the common people of various 

climates and races — what, in short, supports the life 

and labour of the chief part of the world's population. 

In the tropics and adjacent portions of the tem- 

Foodinthe perate zones, high temperature being 

tropics. incompatible with the physical activity 

familiar to northern races, a very little nitrogenous 

material suffices, since the expenditure is small. 

Mostly only a moderate quantity of fat is taken, the 



His Food in Warm Regions, 55 

demand for heat and for force being inconsiderable. 
The starchy products supply nearly all the nutri- 
ment required, and such, with a moderate amount of 
proteids but almost no fats (see pp. 44-5), are found 
in rice, millet, etc. Rice by itself is the principal 
food of this wide zone, including a large part of 
China, part of Africa, America, also the East and 
West Indies ; and as temperature decreases by dis- 
tance from the equator, some fish, fowl, or other 
animal food in the form of soups or broth, are added. 
All adopt to some extent "a mixed diet." Yet in 
the islands of tropical Polynesia are many fine native 
races who consume freely some animal food. 

In the north of Africa, Arabia, and some neighbour- 
ing parts, the date, which contains sugar 
in abundance, is largely eaten, as well as 
maize and other cereals. The variety of millet known 
as "Doura" is largely cultivated in Egypt, as are 
lentils, and flesh is generally used in small proportion. 

Crossing to Europe, the southern Italian is found 
subsisting on macaroni, legumes, rice, j^ southern 
fruits, and salads, with oil, cheese, fish, Europe. • 
and small birds, but very little meat ^' 

More northward, besides fish and a little meat, maize 
is the chief aliment, mostly in the favourite form of 
"polenta," the meal well boiled in water producing 
a substantial porridge ; rye and other cereals take a 
second place. The chestnut also is largely eaten by 
the poorer population, both it and maize containing 
more fatty matter than wheat, oats, and legumes. 



56 Food and Feeding. 

In Spain, the inhabitants subsist chiefly on maize 

and rice, with some wheat and legumes. 
Spain. 

Among the latter the garbanzo, or "chick- 
pea " {cicer arietinum), is one of the principal vege- 
table components of the national olla, which contains 
also a considerable proportion of animal food in 
variety, as bacon, sausage, fowl, etc. The chick-pea 
is cultivated in the East, and being roasted is known 
as "parched pulse," as portable food for travellers 
there. Fruit is fine and abundant ; especially so are 
grapes, figs, and melons. There is little or no butter, 
the universal substitute for which is olive oil, pro- 
duced in great quantity. Fowls, meat broths, and the 
pig furnish the chief animal food, and garlic is the 
favourite condiment. 

Going northward, flesh of all kinds occupies a 

„.„ , more considerable place in the dietary. 

Different '^ ■' 

foodneces- In France the garden vegetables and 

Northern legumes form an important staple of diet 

Europe. f^^ ^jj classes ; the very numerous small 

land proprietors subsist largely on the 
direct products of the soil, with some milk, poultry, 
and eggs, the produce of their small farms. Beef is 
employed for their national pot-au-feu, an admirable 
mixed dish, in which a small portion of meat is 
made to yield all its nutritive qualities, and to go 
far in mingling its odour and savour with those of 
the fragrant vegetables, including sweet and savoury 
herbs, which are largely added to the stock. The 
beef, which is an essential portion of the dish, is 



Food in Colder Regions. 57 

often eaten hot after the soup, but sometimes cold, 
with plenty of green salad and oil, doubtless the 
most palatable mode of serving, while it furnishes 
a source of fat, if not otherwise provided for by- 
butter, cheese, etc.* 

Throughout the German Empire, the cereals, 
legumes, greens, roots, and fruits supply 
an important proportion of the food con- 
sumed by the common population. Wheaten bread 
chiefly, but also black bread made from rye, is largely 
used throughout the north of Europe ; it is somewhat 
inferior in nutritious quality to the former, although 
by not so much as some have supposed ; also beans 
and peas are used abundantly. Potatoes and green 
vegetables of all kinds are served in numerous ways, 
but largely in meat-soup, a favourite dish. Sauer-kraut 
is a preparation of the cabbage-leaf after fermentation 
in salt brine, by which it is preserved for use at all 
seasons of the year, and is largely used and esteemed 
as a wholesome and palatable addition to other food. 
Meats, chiefly pork, are greatly esteemed in the form 
of sausage, and appear also in small portions or joints, 
but freely garnished with vegetables, on the tables of 
those who can afford animal diet. Moreover, sweet 
farinaceous dishes, containing more or less butter or 
lard, abound. Going further north, where the climate 
is no longer adapted for the production of wheat, 
as in Norway and Sweden, the common people rarely 

* For full details as to the nature and preparation of the 
poi-au-feu, see the Appendix. 



58 Food and Feeding. 

see bread, living on oat and rye meal porridge, pota- 
Norway and t°ss> adding much bacon and herrings 
Sweden. foj- necessary fat and more proteids. 

Hard rye cakes hanging in the cottage rafters half 
the year are esteemed, as are sour milk in summer, 
and coffee or weak beer at all times. In northern 
Russia the same cereals, salted fish, and 
bacon form the staple foods, while much 
coarse-grain spirit is consumed. 

Lastly, it is well known that the inhabitants of the 
The Arctic Arctic zone are compelled to consume 
Circle. large quantities of oily matter, in order 

to generate heat abundantly ; and also that animal 
food is necessarily the staple of their dietary. Vege- 
tables, which moreover are not producible in so 
severe a climate, would there be wholly inadequate 
to support life. As a matter of fact, the considerable 
populations here which may be classed as Esquimaux, 
Greenlanders, and others, owe their existence and ex- 
tremely active life to their ability to thrive on animal 
food alone ; while inhabitants of Iceland, northern 
Siberia, and some tribes of North American Indians, 
live almost solely on the flesh of animals. 

Before closing this chapter, the present appears to 
be a fitting place in which to give a brief rhumi 
of particulars relating to the practical application, 
suitable to our own portion of the temperate zone, 
of those principles which scientific research has 
established concerning nutrition. 

As affording a typical example of the relative 



Dietary of Average Adult. 59 



quantities of the four classes named as essential for 
human food, I offer the following table, from Dr. 
Pavy's work named below : — * 

"A diet containing the requisite combination of 
alimentary principles for just maintain- 
ing health, in a person of average height 
and weight, under exposure to a tem- 
perate climate and a moderate amount 
of muscular work. It must be of course 
understood that very considerable deviation from the 
proportions here named may be regarded as suitable 
for different constitutions ; in some cases, less of the 
proteids and more of the fats, in others, more or less 
of the carbo-hydrates, etc. 



Average 
requirement 
for adult male 
of each class 
of food- 
principles. 



Dry food. 


In ozs. avoir. 


In grains. 


In grammes. 


Proteids .... 

Fatty matter . 

Carbo-hydrates 

Salts .... 


4-587 

2-964 

14-250 

1-058 


2006 

1296 

6234 

462 


404 
30 


Total 


22-859 


9998 


648 



" Thus about 23 ozs. form the quantity of dry solid 
matter contained in this standard diet, and a fifth of 

* " A Treatise on Food and Dietetics," by F. W. Pavy, M.D., 
Consulting Physician to Guy's Hospital, etc. London : ChurchiU. 
Second Edition, p. 452. 

See also the latest views on this subject in "A Text-Book 
of Physiology," by M. Foster, M.A., M.D., F.R.S., etc.. Professor 
of Physiology in the University of Cambridge. Part II, 
Macmillan. 1895. 



6o Food and Feeding. 

it is composed of nitrogenous matter. If we reckon 
that our ordinary food contains, say, 50 per cent, of 
water, these 23 ozs. will correspond to 46 ozs. of solid 
food in the condition in which it is consumed. To 
complete the alimentary ingesta, a further quantity 
of from 50 ozs. to 80 ozs. of water may be put down 
as taken, under some form or other, daily." * 

Such a scheme may be practically represented as 
realized in the following allowance of food for a day's 
consumption by an individual, as above described, of 
the male sex, recalling, of course, the remarks just 
quoted in respect of " considerable deviation " neces- 
sary " for different constitutions " and tastes : — 

Daily Dietary. 

1. Bread 7 to 10 ozs. 

2. Butter, bacon, including the former used in 

cookery 3 „ 

3. Fish, cooked 4 to 5 „ 

4. Meat, cooked, including poultry, game, and for 

soup 7 or 8 „ 

5. Eggs, 2 or 3, including those used in cookery. 

6. Rice, macaroni, oatmeal, or other farinaceas, 

and flour in cookery 4 to.5 „ 

7. Potatoes, cooked 4to6 „ 

8. Sugar, including cookery 1 „ 

g. Green vegetables and fruits . . . . 4 to 6 „ 

10. Milk, including that used in cookery, | pint. 

11. Mineral salts, mostly included in foregoing food. Except 

salt used in cookery and at table. 

12. Water in tea, coffee, and other forms of drink, about 3 

or 4 pints. 

* " A Treatise on Food and Dietetics," by F. W. Pavy, M.D., 
p. 452. 



CHAPTER IV. 

Food of the English peasant — Food of the middle class gene- 
rally too solid or stimulating — Tending to corpulence as age 
advances — The cause of chronic complaints in later years — 
The produce of land in grain with pigs and poultry larger 
than when devoted solely to grazing — ^Value of fish as an 
article of diet — Supply ought to be more abundant and 
cheaper — Regimen suited to the sedentary and those who 
are chiefly brain-workers — Elementary principles in select- 
ing, combining, and cooking different forms of food — That 
of the agricultural labourer and other hard workers — The 
legumes : haricots, lentils — Various modes of cooking them 
— Also hints for their use at middle-class tables — Bread 
made of whole wheat-meal and its use — Receipts for making 
it — Combination of elements to produce a complete food — 
Cheese as diet for the working man : its use by the Swiss 
guides— Rice, and the necessary additions to make with it 
palatable, nutritious dishes — The potato, and similar com- 
binations. 

We will now consider the food which the English 
peasant and artisan provide. The former Foods con- 
lives, for the most part, on wheaten bread ^"aboJring 
and cheese, with occasionally a little classes, 
bacon, some potatoes, and perhaps garden greens ; 
it is only occasionally indeed that he can obtain fresh 
meat. To this dietary the artisan adds meat as a 



62 Food and Feeding. 

rule, mostly beef or mutton, and some butter. A 
ften ill piece of fresh, and therefore not tender 

selected beef, is baked, or cooked in a frying- 

pan, in the latter case becoming a hard and not 
very digestible morsel ; by the former 
wastefully process a somewhat better dish is pro- 
prepare . duced, the meat being usually surrounded 
by potatoes or by a layer of batter, since both con- 
tain starchy products, and absorb the fat which leaves 
the meat The food of the peasant might, however, 
be cheaper and better ; while the provision of the 
artisan is often extravagant and badly cooked. At 
this period of our national history, when food is 
scarce, and the supply of meat insufficient to meet 
the demand which our national habits of feeding 
perpetuate, it is an object of the first importance to 
consider whether other aliments can be obtained at a 
cheaper rate, and at the same time equal in quality 
to those of the existing dietary. Many believe that 

this object may be accomplished without 
Susceptible 
of much im- difficulty, and that the chief obstacle 

provemen ^.^ improvement in the food-supply, not 

only of the classes referred to, but in that of the 

English table generally, is the common prejudice 

which exists against any aliment not yet widely 

known or tried. The one idea which the working 

classes possess in relation to improvement in diet, 

and which they invariably realize when wages are 

high, is an abundant supply of butcher's meat. To 

make this the chief element of at least three meals 



English Middle-Class Diet. 63 

daily, and to despise bread and vegetables, is for 
them no less a sign of taste, than a declaration of 
belief in the perfection of such food for the purposes 
of nutrition. This belief doubtless arises from 
observing the habits of those who are better pro- 
vided than themselves with pecuniary resources. 

For I have already intimated that Englishmen 
of the middle classes generally have Englishmen 
adopted a diet adapted for a somewhat too much 
more northerly latitude than that which animal food, 
they occupy ; that their food is mostly richer in fats 
and proteids than it need be, and that their numerous 
forms of indigestion and much resulting chronic 
disease are further necessary consequences of the 
same error. They indulge, not necessarily in quantity, 
but in a kind of food generally reputed " simple and 
wholesome," which nevertheless for them creates a 
condition of corpulence, not merely inconvenient, but 
prejudicial to health, and to their prospects of 
longevity. Such tendencies existing, and especially 
if the individual does not, or cannot take much 
exercise, the choice of food, free from fatty con- 
stituent, or from fat-producing elements, is a matter 
of no small importance. Then, again, it is absolutely 
certain, contrary to the popular belief as this is, that 
while a good supply of food is essential q ,. , 
during the period of growth and active food to be 
middle life, a diminished supply is desir- in advancing 
able in relation to health and prolonga- 'S^'^^- 
tion of life during declining years, when physical 



64 Food and Feeding. 

exertion is small, and the digestive faculty sometimes 
becomes less powerful also. I shall not regard it 
as within my province here to dilate largely on this 
topic, but I desire to point out that the system of 
" supporting " aged persons, as it is termed, with 
increased quantities of food and stimulant, is an 
error of cardinal importance, and, without doubt, 
tends to shorten, or to embitter life. This erroneous 
Serious evils practice ignores the important fact that 
neefert*of ^^ ^S^ increases, the ability to eliminate 
this course. food unnecessarily consumed notably 
diminishes. The functions by which surplus and 
effete matters are thrown off from the system are 
less active than in youth and middle age; and the 
results of over-feeding, which a robust constitution 
can get rid of without obvious evil, become a source 
of dangerous embarrassment to the feebler organiza- 
tion of one advanced in years. Hence numerous 
chronic disorders, often regarded as peculiar to the 
latter third of life, are to a great extent avoidable. 
So far from continuing to select the strong nourish- 
ment which may have been necessary during the 
toil and anxieties of thirty years or more of adult 
energy and activity throughout the prime of life, the 
elderly man who desires to preserve fair health, and 
to attain to longevity, should gradually diminish his 
use of strong nitrogenous and especially of much 
fatty food. He should substitute a lighter dietary, 
as he subsides naturally, and more or less gradually, 
into the class of the sedentary, and adopts the 



National Resources of Food. 65 

regimen best adapted thereto, hereafter to be con- 
sidered.* 

These things being so, a question also inviting 
consideration arises in relation to the 
economical management of the national national 
resources. For it is generally under- ref^ed^to 
stood that every acre of good arable the subject 
land devoted to the production of grain 
is capable of becoming the source of a much larger 
amount of produce of equivalent value as food, than 
if applied to the feeding of sheep and oxen. In 
other words, a given area of such land cropped with 
cereals and legumes, will support a more numerous 
population than that which can be sustained on 
pasture land, mostly of inferior quality, devoted 
solely to the growth of cattle. And for another 
reason, because the corn-land will also produce, 
without much extra cost, a considerable quantity of 
animal food, in the form of pigs and poultry, upon 
the offal or coarser parts of vegetable produce which 
are unsuitable for human consumption. Moreover, 
the animals are useful to a considerable extent to 
the land, by destroying injurious insect life, and by 
depositing valuable manure. 

But owing to our increasing population, and to the 
uncertainty of the climate, this country has to pur- 
chase every year a large and increasing quantity of 

* See " Diet in Relation to Age and Activity," where the subject 
is discussed at length. Kegan Paul, Trench and Co., Paternoster 
Row. By the Author. 



66 



Food and Feeding. 



corn and flour from foreign countries, while more 
of our own land is yearly devoted to 
grazing purposes. The increased import 
of corn and flour and other agricultural 
produce by Great Britain during the last 
twenty-six years (that is, previous to the 
end of 1 895, which is the latest information at present 
obtainable), is exhibited in the following table : * — 



Large meat 
production 
here causes 
large import 
of foreign 
grain. 



Consumption of IMPORTED Foods PER HEAD on 
Population in the United Kingdom. 


Articles. 


1869. 


1888. 


1895- 


Com and flour . 

Butter 

Cheese 

Bacon and hams . 

Eggs . 


155-85 pounds 

4-52 ,, 

3-52 „ 

2-68 „ 

14-38 number 


220-14 pounds 
8-16 „. 
5-56 „ 
10-25 .. 
30-0 number 


285-09 pounds 

7-92 „ 

S'93 .. 
14-63 „ 
38-97 number 



At the same time our importation of meat has 
been enormously increasing during the last ten years. 
Thus the value of dead meat and of animals has now 
reached the annual amounts here quoted : f — 



1887. 



1889. 



1896. 



Dead meat 

Animals 

Butter and margarine 

Cheese 

Eggs . 



£ 
14,662,100 

6,346,727 



18,601,309 
10,360,807 



24.753.002 

10,438,699 

17,842,508 

4,900,428 

4,184,567 



* Statesman^ Year Book, 1897, p. 86. And what might be 
the extra cost of obtaining this supply in time of war ? — a 
contingency we ought seriously to reckon on. We should then, 
perhaps, draw much more largely than we do at present on the 
enormous resources which exist on all our shores, referred to in 
the succeeding paragraph. 

t Statesman's Year Book, 1897, pp. 84-86. 



Inadequate Supply of Fish. 67 

Lastly, those who are interested in the national 

supply of food must lament that, while 

^ T, - . , , Our fish 

Great Britam possesses perhaps the best supply 

opportunities in the world for securing a °*^ ^^ ^ ' 
large and cheap supply of fish, she fails to attain it, 
and procures so little only, that it is to the great 
majority of the inhabitants an expensive luxury. 
Fish is a food of great value ; nevertheless it ought 
in this country to be one of the cheapest aliments, 
since production and growth cost absolutely nothing, 
only the expenses of catching, and of a short transport 
being incurred. This is a question which must sooner 
or later be solved by the public themselves, unless 
some persons in the trade, more enterprising than 
those who now pursue it, will abandon existing con- 
ventional rules and habits, and venture on the 
assuredly safe and profitable enterprise of supplying 
fish, good and fresh, at prices far lower than those 
which it is agreed shall rule at present* 

* Something has been done to meet the wants of fish consumers 
by the fish dealers at the docks of Grimsby, Lincolnshire, to 
afford a regular, prompt, and cheap supply of fresh fish to families 
in London, and also in the country for those who reside at no 
great distance from a railway station. The result I believe to 
be tolerably satisfactory ; but, with enterprise, it might be 
rendered more so. For a regular and varied kitchen supply — 
and I believe- a weekly fish-dinner is a welcome as well as a 
wholesome change for the " servants' hall " — it may be depended 
on as fresh in quality and reasonable in price. But for " live 
salmon " or a choice turbot, as well as for " the pick of the 
market " in soles and other fish, a town fishmonger of the highest 
repute should be always applied to. 



68 Food and Feeding. 

A very large proportion of our town population 
Fish would profit by exchanging some of their 

food'fo'r nieat, as an article of daily diet, for fish, 

many, Where occupation is chiefly of an in- 

tellectual kind, and demands little physical exertion, 
fish is often much more suitable than butcher's meat. 
Without active exercise in the open air, the digestive 
system is apt to become overloaded and oppressed 
by meals consisting chiefly of meat ; and even if the 
primary digestion of it is, in these circumstances, 
fairly accomplished, many a constitution suff'ers from 
an over-supply of nutritive matters, which cannot 
be disposed of easily without considerable habitual 
muscular activity. 

There is no doubt that the obvious and admitted 
value of a highly nitrogenous food, of which meat is 
a concentrated form, to the labouring man, has oc- 
casioned the almost universal belief that such meat, 
of which let beef and mutton be the type, is the most 
desirable food staple for all. " If you wish to be 
strong, eat plenty of meat;" "If you are feeling 
weak, eat more meat, and at every meal ; " such are 
the well-known articles of a creed which is deeply 
graven in the popular mind. Nevertheless, few state- 
ments relating to diet can be more misleading, and 
this is, as already intimated, one which often gives 
rise to serious ill-health. 

It is this habit of adopting meat as the chief ele- 
ment of his dietary, which the sedentary man, with 
little opportunity for bodily exercise, the man who 



Prevention Better than Cure. 69 

uses his brain more than his muscles, should avoid, 
But especially, also, should he abstain and 
from fatty matters in large quantity, §esh ^^the" 
taking only a moderate proportion, sedentary, 
which is not only permissible, but to a small extent 
necessary. For if he habitually consumes for whom 
these two classes of food freely, materials f^od^'ig*'*^ 
are introduced into' the system which it undesirable, 
cannot eliminate under the conditions named, and 
which must ultimately obstruct the function of some 
internal organ. Thus the periodical bilious attack, 
or the recurring fit of gout, or some other relentless 
tormentor, clears the system for a time of the offend- 
ing matter which the daily error in diet is perpetually 
reproducing and accumulating. Those who are thus 
affected often endeavour to ward off their troubles by 
systematic muscular exercises, fencing. Effect of 
rowing, and the like, and they do so ^ercise'^ 
with a certain amount of success. It is etc- 
for the purpose of getting rid of superfluous nutritive 
materials that others (who may be wholly unconscious 
of the need which impels them) secure their yearly 
shootings, make Alpine excursions, or seek the 
mineral springs of a foreign spa — more or less agree- 
able contrivances, all of them, for effecting the required 
elimination once or twice a year, but which would not 
be necessary had food suitable to a sedentary life only 
been taken. On the other hand, the pleasurable 
pursuits named would — the proviso as to diet having 
been obeyed — be more enjoyed for their own sake \ 



yo Food and Feeding. 

and the considerable amount of training essential for 
the over-loaded constitution would not be a trouble- 
some preliminary. Many a man might indeed safely 
pursue a sedentary career, taking only a small 
amount of exercise, and yet maintain an excellent 
standard of health, if only he were careful that the 
_. „.jj_ "intake" in the form of diet corresponded 

take " and with the expenditure which his occupa- 

the "out- . ,,,.,, , -T 

put" should tions, mental and physical, demand. Let 

correspon . j^j^^ j^y ^jj jjje^j,s gnjoy his annual 

pastime, and profit by it, to rest his mind and 
augment his natural forces, but not for the mere 
purpose of neutralizing the evil effects of habitual 
dietetic wrong-doing. 

It is for this large and increasing class of the com- 
Fish diet and munity, who are emphatically brain- 
brain work, workers, that a fair proportion of fish 
furnishes an appropriate food ; and as the tendency 
of civilization is slowly but surely to develop mental 
activity, and to dispense with laborious handicraft, a 
good supply of cheap fish becomes every day more 
important to the community. 

For the sedentary man, whatever his calling in life, 
whose engagements permit him only to take just that 
moderate amount of muscular exercise which is in all 
circumstances essential to health ; for a great propor- 
tion of women, whose engagements are incompatible 
with much activity in the open air, — the nutritive 
elements afforded by fish admirably supply an im- 
portant part of the wants of the body. The moderate 



Changes in Diet to be Gradual. 71 

amount of flesh-forming material present in fish, and 
in a form which entails little labour on the digestive 
organs — for most persons certainly less than meat — 
and the facility with which fish may be associated 
with other elements — some fatty matters, with cereals 
and vegetables, as well as fruits — place it in the first 
rank of foods in that mixed dietary which is suitable 
to those who lead more or less the kind of life 
referred to. I by no means say that it should 
supersede the use of meat altogether, although it 
may do so sometimes with advantage ; a point only 
to be determined in each individual instance after 
some observation and experiment. For in all cases, 
it is to be remembered — and I repeat the statement 
on account of its importance — that a person who has 
habitually eaten meat two or three times daily cannot 
at once exchange it for fish and cereals or vegetables, 
without some discomfort, to say the Changes in 
least. All radical changes in diet, even ^ be made 
in the right direction, require to be by degrees, 
gradually made ; the stomach conforms slowly, when 
long accustomed to deal with highly nitrogenized 
animal food, to the task of deriving from unac- 
customed materials the support necessary to the 
body. Given time for such modification of function, 
and it is remarkable — at least, it appears so to those 
who have not practically studied the subject — that a 
diet which, if adopted suddenly might fail to be either 
digestible or nutritious, may become the most whole- 
some and appropriate which the individual can adopt. 



72 Food and Feeding. 

I may here advert to a belief which appears to be 
Fish diet widely entertained, viz. that fish con- 

ww-k'^*'" tains certain elements which adapt it in 
continued. an especial manner to renovate the brain, 
and so to support mental labour. There is no 
foundation whatever for this view : the value of fish 
to the brain-worker is due simply to the facts already 
referred to, viz. that it contains, in smaller pro- 
portion than meat, those materials which, taken 
abundantly, demand more physical labour for their 
complete consumption, and which without this pro- 
duce an unhealthy condition of body, more or less 
incompatible with the easy and active exercise of 
the functions of the brain. 

Having enunciated some general principles, which 
The dietary it is important should first be estab- 

°^*'j^. lished, I shall offer some illustrations of 

man. the manner in which they may be applied. 

This brings us to the second division of the subject, 
viz. the selection of food and the best modes of 
preparing it for general use ; in other words, a sketch 
of the elementary principles of cooking with typical 
illustrations. Dealing first with that of the agri- 
cultural labourer, our object is to economize his small 
pittance ; to give him, if possible, a rather more 
nutritive, wholesome, and agreeable dish — and it is 
assumed that he can have but one — than his means 
have hitherto furnished. But here there is little scope 
for change ; already said to live chiefly on bread and 
cheese, with bacon occasionally, two indications only 



Food of Outdoor Labourer. 73 

for improvement can be followed, viz. augmentation 
of nitrogenous matter and of fatty matter, to support 
the body and to furnish heat and force. A fair pro- 
portion of meat, one of the best means of fulfilling 

them, is not within his reach. First, his 
,.,;,, . ,, , Bread, 

daily bread ought to contam all the con- 
stituents of the wheat, instead of being made of flour 
from which most of the mineral elements have been 
removed ; a subject to be considered at some length 
hereafter (see pp. 78-80). But beans and Legumin- 
peas are richer in nitrogen than wheat, °"® foods, 
although not so easily assimilated, and contain less 
fat, the last being in small quantity, while maize has 
three times their proportion of fat. Hence all of 
these would be useful additions to his dietary when 
they can be well digested, being cheaper than wheat 
in the market, although the retail demand being at 
present small, they may not be so in the small shops. 

It may be remembered how well the ^, „ ^ , 

■^ The"Erbs- 

" Erbswurst," which derives its value, for wurst" and 

, r J- i- its value, 

men whose powers of digestion are 

sharpened by hard labour in the open air, from the 
legumes combined with animal fat, supported the 
work of the German armies during the winter of 
1870-71. It consisted of a well-cooked purie of peas, 
mixed with a considerable proportion of bacon or lard, 
and dried so as to be portable, constituting in small 
compass a perfect food, especially suitable for sup- 
porting muscular activity and exposure to cold. It 
probably nearly equalled in value preserved meat, 



74 Food and Feeding, 

prepared by salting or other processes for transport, 
being not only less bulky, but more convenient for 
use without delay at any time. By no means to be 
depended on as a staple, or to take the place of 
fresh meat, it was a most valuable supplement 
when the latter was not available. It was better 
also, because it was relished cold, or could be con- 
verted in a few minutes into good soup with boiling 
water. But for our labourer probably the best of 
the legumes is the haricot bean, red or white, the 
dried mature bean of the plant whose pods we eat 
in the early green state as " French beans." * For 
this purpose they may be treated thus : Soak, say, 

a quart of the dried haricots in cold 
Haricots. , /• i , • , 

water for about sixteen to twenty-four 

hours, after which place them in a saucepan, with 

two quarts of cold water and a little salt, on the fire ; 

when boiling remove to the corner and simmer slowly 

until the beans are tender ; the time required being 

about at least three hours.f This quantity will fill 

* What we call " French beans " may be the product of several 
kindred varieties of the kidney bean, dwarf or climbing, varying 
according to locality and soil, and distributed over a very large 
part of Europe. When gathered early, before it is fully grown, 
the bean is green, hke a green pea, and forms an admirable 
dish, known in France a.^ flageolets. When the ordinary French 
beans (immature green pods) are mixed in about equal propor- 
tions with ikis. flageolets, the dish, which is a very palatable one, 
is well known in France as haricots verts panaches (variegated), 
and might be served at our tables with advantage. 

t If the water is hard, a httle soda should be added to 
soften it. 



The Legumes: Simple Cookery. 75 

a large dish, and may be eaten with salt and pepper. 

It will be greatly improved at small „ . 

Various 
cost by the addition of a bit of butter, methods of 

or of melted butter with parsley, or if *^°'' '"^' 
an onion or two have been sliced and stewed with 
the haricots. A better dish still may be made by 
putting all or part, after boiling, into a shallow 
frying-pan, and lightly frying for a few minutes with 
a li.ttle lard and some sliced onions. With a few 
slices of bacon added, a comparatively luxurious and 
highly nutritive meal may be made. But there is still 
in the saucepan, after boiling the haricots, a residue 
of small value, which the French peasant's wife, who 
turns everything to account, utilizes in a manner quite 
incomprehensible to the Englishwoman. The water 
in which dried haricots have stewed, and also that in 
which green French beans have been boiled, contains 
a proportion of nutritive matter. The Frenchwoman 
preserves this liquor carefully, cuts and fries some 
onions, adds to it these and some thick slices of 
bread, a little salt and pepper, with a potherb or two 
from the corner of the garden, and thus serves hot an 
agreeable and useful cro^lte au pot. It ought to be 
added that the haricots so largely used by the work- 
ing classes throughout Europe are not precisely either 
"red" or "white," but some cheaper local varieties, 
known as haricots du pays. These are now supplied 
here at about twopence a pound, and in large quantity 
might be obtained at a somewhat cheaper rate, their 
quality as food being not inferior to other kinds. 



76 Food and Feeding. 

But haricots — let them be the fine white Soissons — 
The finest ^""^ good enough to be welcome at any 
haricots ; table ; and our artisans, whose means are 

much larger than those of the class above named, 
might improve their dietary by adopting some of 
the foregoing hints, as well as those which follow. 
A roast leg or shoulder of mutton may be garnished 
by a pint boiled as just directed, lying in the gravy 
of the dish ; and some persons think that, with a good 
their place supply of the meat gravy, and a little 
furnished ^^^^ ^^^ pspps''i " the haricots are by no 

tables. means the worst part of the mutton." 

Then with a smooth /«r/g of mild onions, which have 
been previously sliced, fried brown, and stewed, served 
freely as sauce, our leg of mutton and haricots become 
the gigot d. la bretonne well known to all lovers of 
wholesome and savoury cookery. Next, white haricots 
stewed until soft, made into a rather thick pur^e, deli- 
cately flavoured by adding a small portion of white 
purie of onions (not browned by frying as in the pre- 
ceding sauce), produce an agreeable garnish for the 
centre of a dish of small cutlets, or an entree of fowl, 
etc. Again, the same haricot purh blended with a 
Haricot ^^^ stock, well flavoured with fresh 

soups, vegetables, furnishes an admirable and 

nutritious white soup. The red haricots, in like 
manner, with a beef stock make an excellent brown 
soup, technically known as potage d la Condi, and 
usually served with small fried croutons. The same 
may be said of lentils, known as " Chantilly," which 



The Legumes: at their Best. 77 

have much the same nutritive value, and often an 
agreeable change, especially in winter, when these 
as well as split peas are usually met with in the 
well-known form of a purie. If, instead of meat, we 
employ a good vegetable stock, agreeably flavoured 
with carrot, turnip, onion, and savoury herbs, a first- 
rate soup maigre is produced. When, in place of 
meat, a broth chiefly made from game — especially 
from the remains of a hare, the prime parts of which 
have been consumed at table — is thickened with red 
haricot purde, the result is an excellent and other 
soup, which in texture and in flavour "ombina- 
would by many persons not be distin- t'ons. 
guishable from a common purde of game itself. A 
hint for those who do not despise economy in cuisine, 
when the value of the product is unquestionable. 
Stewed haricots also furnish, when cold, an admirable 
salad, improved by adding slices of tomato, etc., the 
oil supplying the one element in which the bean is 
deficient ; and a fairly nutritious food is produced 
for those who can digest it in this form. The same 
dietetic principle, it may be observed, has, although 
empirically, produced the well-known dishes of beans 
and bacon, ham and green peas, boiled pork and 
pease-pudding, all of them old and popular but really 
scientific combinations. Thus also the French, serving 
petits pais as a separate dish, add butter freely and 
a dash of sugar, the former making the compound 
physiologically complete, the latter agreeably height- 
ening the natural sweetness of the vegetable, especially 



78 Food and Feeding. 

when the peas are a little old, insipid, or have lost 
their accustomed flavour. 

I have just adverted to the bread of the working 
Remarks on nian, and recommended that it should 
meal bread. ^jg made from entire wheat meal ; but 
it should not be too coarsely ground. Extreme 
coarseness in "whole wheat meal," as it is usually 
termed, is a condition designed to exert a specific 
effect on the digestion for those who need it, and, 
useful as it is in its place, is not desirable for the 
average population referred to. At the same time, 
no portion of the husk of the grain should be removed 
J, , from the wheat when ground, whether 

not removing coarsely or finely, into meal. That a 
the husk. . , , . - ,, , 

partial removal is systematically advo- 
cated by some as an improvement, is one of the 
numerous illustrations of the modern and almost 
universal craze which just now exists among food 
purveyors of almost every description, for eliminating 
all inert or innutritions matter from the food we eat. 
This extraordinary care to employ nothing in our 
diet but matter which has nutritive value, that is, 
can be absorbed into the system, is founded upon 
want of elementary knowledge of the first principles 
of digestion ; and yet, strange to say, the mistaken, 
indeed mischievous, practice is supported, probably for 
want of thought, by many who ought to know better. 
It seems now to be almost overlooked that no 
proper action of the intestines can take place unless 
a very considerable quantity of inert matter is present 



Whole Meal Wheaten Bread. 79 

in our daily food, existing as material which cannot 
be digested. By this character we are ^ , 
not to suppose that it is in the least inert matters 
degree " indigestible " in the sense of 
that term when employed to signify " difficult diges- 
tion," but only that it passes unchanged through the 
body, neither receiving nor exciting any action. 
When there is a considerable proportion of this in 
the food, the bowels can act daily and regularly, 
having a mass which they can transmit. When, on 
the other hand, the food is so " nutritious " as to be 
almost entirely absorbed, there is very little solid 
matter to transmit, and the action of the bowels is 
therefore scanty, irregular, and insufficient. This is, in 
fact, a very extensively recognizable cause of a great 
deal of the habitual constipation so prevalent among 
the middle classes at the present time. To return to 
the subject of coarse wheat meal, let me observe that 
it does not readily produce light agreeable bread 
when made in the form of ordinary loaves : a solid 
mass of this meal being a bad conductor of heat, will 
have a hard flinty crust if baked sufficiently to cook 
the interior ; or it will have a soft dough-like interior, 
if the baking is checked when the crust is properly 
done. Consequently the form of a flat Best form 
cake, resembling that of the ordinary for baking, 
tea-cake, is preferable, about i\ inch, or at most ij 
inch thick, since it admits of the right amount of 
heat operating equally throughout the mass. 

The following receipts will be found successful, 



8o Food and Feeding. 

probably after a trial or two, in producing excellent, 

light, friable, and most palatable bread in the form 

recommended. 

The first directs the mode of making it with baking 

Receint for powder. — Take two pounds of coarsely 

whole-meal ground whole wheat meal, and add half 
cakes, using , . . _ , .,, , 

baking a pound of fine flour, or, better still, the 

pow er. same weight, or more if preferred, of 

fine Scotch oatmeal. Mix thoroughly with a suf- 
ficient quantity of baking powder and a little salt ; 
then rub in two ounces of butter and make into 
dough — using a wooden spoon — with cold skimmed 
milk or milk and water, soft in consistence, so that 
it can almost be poured into the tin ring, which gives 
it form when baked. In this manner it is to be 
quickly made into flat cakes (like tea-cakes), and 
baked on a tin, the rings used being about an inch 
high and seven or eight inches in diameter, each 
enclosing a cake. Put them without delay into a 
quick oven at the outset, so that the external surface 
may be instantly hardened or sealed to prevent the 
gas formed by the baking powder from escaping, 
otherwise the result will be a dense, thin, and heavy 
cake instead of a light and spongy one. This is a 
cardinal point in the process which is often over- 
looked. When the object is accomplished, which will 
occupy some five or seven minutes, the temperature 
should be lowered to complete the process gently and 
completely.* 
' The following is a simple and excellent formula for " baking 



Receipt for making It. 8i 

If made with yeast, which is for general purposes 
preferable, when either good German or 
the fresh home product can be obtained, ' ^^^ ' 
add the necessary quantity to the dough, made as 
above directed with the two meals, butter, salt, and 
warm milk and water ; make the cakes and put them 
on the tin with their rings, and set near the fire to 
rise, which they will do in an hour or little under. 
Then bake in a medium oven in_ the same way as 
for any other fermented bread. When yeast is 
used and not baking powder, a medium coarse oat- 
meal may be added to the wheat meal instead of fine 
oatmeal, which is necessary in the foregoing receipt. 

The butter and milk supply fatty matter in which 
the wheat is somewhat deficient ; all the saline and 
mineral matters of the husk are retained ; and thus 
a more nutritive form of bread cannot be made, 
combined with a desirable proportion of inert matter. 
Moreover, it retains the natural flavour of the wheat, 
in place of the insipidity which is characteristic of 
fine flour, although it is indisputable that bread 
produced from the latter, especially at Paris and 
Vienna, is unrivalled for delicacy, texture, and colour. 

powder ; " one which has been long used for this and other 
purposes. It may be obtained at any chemist's and in any 
quantity, based on the following proportions : — 

Tartaric acid, 2 ozs. 

Bicarbonate of soda, 3 ozs. 

Common arrowroot, 3 ozs. 
Mix well ; place in a wide-mouthed corked bottle, and keep 
perfectly dry. 

F 



82 Food and Feeding, 

Whole wheat meal may now be bought in most 
towns, but by no means always in such perfect 
condition as it ought to be. When it cannot be 
Domestic obtained, a useful corn mill, the cutting 
erindin? P^*^* *° ^^ made of steel, is now con- 

wheat, structed cheaply for home use ; the best 

white wheat should be procured, and the grain can 
be ground so as to supply a meal of any degree of 
coarseness desired.* 

An important object in furnishing the foregoing 
details is to illustrate how combinations 
binationof of the nitrogenous, starchy, fatty, and 
Mc™lsary for ™i"eral elements may be made, in well- 
*, l"^°?i' J proportioned mixtures, in order to pro- 
duce what I have termed a " complete " 
dish — that is, one which supplies every demand of 
the body, without containing any one element in 
undue proportion. For it is obvious that one or two 
of these elements may exist in injurious excess, 
especially for delicate stomachs, the varied peculi- 
arities of which, as before insisted on, must some- 
times render necessary a modification of all rules. 
Thus it is easy to make the fatty constituent too 
large, and thereby derange digestion, a result fre- 
Result of quently experienced by persons of seden- 

port^on^of" tai^y habits, to whom a little pastry, 
one element a morsel of foie gras, or a rich cream 
is a source of great discomfort, or of a "bilious 

* Kent & Co., the well-known makers of domestic appli- 
ances, in High Holborn, supply such mills. 



" Complete " Food or Dish. 83 

attack ; " while the outdoor labourer, who requires 
much fatty material for his work, would have 
no difficulty in consuming a large quantity of 
such compounds with advantage. 

Cheese as a supplement to bread is largely used by 
the labouring man, especially in agri- 
cultural districts. It is a food well valuable diet 
adapted to his wants ; while his digestion, 
unlike that of many a factory operative who works 
under cover, generally deals with it easily. Cheese 
is one of the most concentrated forms of nitrogenous 
food, and admirably supports hard labour in the open 
air. Thus it is that Swiss guides and Use of it 
mountaineers always demand a good n^jw^afn. 
supply of cheese and butter among the ^ers. 
provisions when a long day's work is planned. When 
taken at the end of a full meal as a savoury morsel, 
the flavour only is required, and the quantity should 
be small. Many persons whose daily life affords 
little opportunity for muscular activity find cheese, at 
all events when uncooked, not easily digestible. 
And when such do employ it as an article of food, 
it should be regarded as taking the place of meat, 
which is not so rich in nitrogen. Mr. Mattieu 
Williams has some good remarks on this subject,* 
from which it appears that when properly improved 
cooked, cheese is probably more easily by cooking, 
assimilated by an ordinary stomach, than when eaten 

* *' The Chemistry of Food," by Mattieu Williams, pp. 135-40. 
London : Chatto & Windus. 1885. 



84 Food and Feeding. 

in the raw condition. The well-known "cheese 
The fondu " is an example. Here is the 

^'^dheese* Swiss peasant's form as he gives it, and 

fondu." of the dish thus produced he speaks 

highly, from observation as well as from personal 
experience, in relation to its sustaining power, and 
its right to form the staple dish of a substantial meal, 
appropriately adding, " It is rather too good — over- 
nutritious — for a man only doing sedentary work." 

Mix grated cheese and eggs beaten as for an 
omelette, adding a little new milk or butter. Place 
the mixture in a saucer-shaped pan which bears the 
fire, over which it is to be gently cooked, stirring well 
until the whole is dissolved, and the mixture is homo- 
geneous ; serve it in the pan, and eat it with a good 
supply of bread, and with salt and mustard to taste. 
. Mr. Williams further suggests that a 

Williams' small quantity of bicarbonate of potash 
may be added with advantage to the 
ingredients before cooking — say 15 or 20 grains 
for a dish sufficing for two persons. It appears to 
facilitate solution of the casein, and at all events 
cannot be an unwholesome addition. Indeed, as he 
observes, it supplies potash salts, which are naturally 
present in meat, but which are wanting in cheese. 
By adding bread crumbs, or slices of bread, and more 
milk, an excellent savoury pudding may be made, 
and baked in a pie-dish, or in a shallower one if pre- 
ferred. This preparation may be easily rendered an 
elegant one for other tables if required. 



Rice, Modes of sewing. 85 

Quitting the subject of wheat and the leguminous 
seeds, it will be interesting to review 
briefly the combinations of rice, which 
furnishes so large a portion of the world with a 
vegetable staple of diet. Remembering that it con- 
tains chiefly starch, with nitrogen in small proportion, 
and almost no fat or mineral elements, and just 
sufficing perhaps, with a small quantity of the former, 
to meet the wants of an inactive population in a 
tropical climate, the first addition necessary for the 
people who dwell on the temperate margin of this 
limit, and just beyond it, will be a notable proportion 
of fat, and with it a little addition of nitrogen. 
Hence an illustration of one of the first efforts to 
make a dish of rice " complete," is afforded by the 
addition of butter and a little Parmesan cheese, in 

the simple risotto, from which, as a start- 
Needful ad- 
ing pomt, improvement, both for nutri- ditions in the 

"risotto " 
tive purposes and for the demands of the ' 

palate, may be carried to any extent (see p. 164). 
Fresh additions are made in the shape of marrow, of 
morsels of liver, etc., of meat broth with onion and 
spice, which constitute the mixture, when well pre- 
pared) nutritious and highly agreeable. The analogue 

of this mainly Italian dish is the pilau 

, . . asa "pilaff." 

ox pilaff oi\h& orientals, consistmg, as it 

chiefly does, of rice lightly boiled in the broth of a 
fowl, a basis susceptible of various slight modifica- 
tions and additions (see p. 167). The curry of 
rabbit or of poultry and the kedgeree of fish are 



86 Food and Feeding. 

further varieties which it is unnecessary to describe. 

Following the same combination to Spain, we find it 

a popular national dish, not greatly differing from the 

" Fowl with foregoing, in the polio con arroz, which 

"ce." consists of abundance of rice, stewed 

with meat-broth and containing morsels of fowl, 

bacon, and sausage, with appetizing spices, and 

sufficing for an excellent meal. 

Another farinaceous product of world-wide use is 

the maize or Indian corn. With a fair 

amount of nitrogen, starch, and mineral 

elements, it contains also a good proportion of fat, 

and is made into bread, cakes, and puddings of 

various kinds. It is nearly complete, but capable of 

improvement by the addition of nitrogen. Hence, in 

the United States, where it is largely used, it is often 

eaten with beans, under the name of " succotash." 

In Italy it is ground into the beautiful yellow flour 

which is conspicuous in the streets of almost every 

town ; when made into a firm paste, by boiling in 

water, and sprinkled with Parmesan cheese, a nitro- 

„ . genous aliment, it becomes what is known 

Polenta. ^ , , . , , 

as polenta, and is largely consumed 

with some relish in the shape of fried fish, sardines, 

sausage, little birds, or morsels of fowl or goose, by 

which, of course, fresh nitrogen is added. Macaroni 

has been already alluded to in connection with wheat, 

from which it is made ; although rich in nitrogenous 

and starchy materials, it is deficient in fat. Hence it 

is boiled and eaten with butter and Parmesan (i 



Potato^ how Made Complete. 87 

Vltalienne) and with tomatoes, which furnish saline 
matters, with good meat gravy or with milk (see p. 
163). 

Nearer home the potato forms a vegetable basis, in 
composition resembling rice in abundance 
of starch, but with much less proteids, 
and requiring therefore additions of nitrogenous and 
fatty elements. The Irishman's inseparable ally, the 
pig, is the natural, and to him necessary, complement 
of the tuber, making the latter a complete and 
palatable dish. The everyday combi- requires 
nation of mashed potato and sausage is ^^'*3 matter, 
an unconsciously made illustration of the sapie 
principle. In the absence of pork, the potato eater 
substitutes a cheap oily fish, the herring. The com- 
bination of fatty material with the potato is still 
further illustrated in our baked potato and butter, 
in fried potatoes in their endless variety of form, in 
potato mashed with milk or cream, also as served 
in the ordinary way with Maitre d" hotel butter ; finally 
arriving at the most perfect and finished combination 
in the pommes de terre sauties au beurre of a first-class 
French restaurant, where it becomes almost a plat de 
Itixe. Even the simple bread and butter Bread 
or bread and cheese of our own country ^„'i[te^^oj 
equally owe their form and popularity cheese, 
to physiological necessity ; the deficient fat of the 
bread being supplemented by the fatty elements of 
each addition, the cheese supplying also its proportion 
of nitrogenous matter, which exists so largely in its 



88 Food and Feeding. 

peculiar proteid, caseine. So again, all the suet 
puddings, "short cake," plum cakes, pie-crust, or 
pastry, whether baked or boiled, which consist simply 
of farinaceous food rendered stronger nutriment by 
the addition of fatty matters contained in the butter, 
lard, milk, and eggs, inevitably used in making them. 
All are illustrations of the same principle practically 
applied by their inventors, without the slightest 
consciousness that they were fulfilling a natural and 
essential law of life. 

In the same way almost every national dish might 
be analyzed, up to the pot-au-feu of our neighbours, 
the right management of which combines the nutritious 
quality of flesh with the abundant aroma and flavour 
of fresh vegetables, together with their useful saline 
constituents, which enter so largely into this 
economical and excellent mess (see pp. 138, 139). 
Among the poorer classes this dish is, of course, 
intended to supplement a considerable quantity of 
bread, which contains the efficient complement 
of carbo-hydrates. 

It will be apparent that, up to this point, our esti- 
AU the fore- ™ate of the value of these combinations 

going dishes has been limited, or almost so, by their 
are the . . ' ■' 

simplest physiological completeness as foods, and 

"complete" by their economical value in relation to 

food. tiig resources of that great majority of all 

populations, which is poor. But when the inexorable 

necessity for duly considering economy has been 

complied with, the next aim is to render food as 



Food to be Agreeable also. 89 

easily digestible as possible, and agreeable to the 
senses of taste, smell, and sight. 

The hard labourer with simple diet, provided his 
aliment is complete and fairly well cooked, will suffer 
little from indigestion. There may be a sameness 
in the small range of foods within his reach ; but he 
eats with appetite and zest, for, after all, "hunger 
is the best sauce." He cannot be guilty, for want 
of means, of eating too much, fertile source of 
deranged stomach with those who have an unlimited 
supply ; physical labour being also in many circum- 
stances the best preventive of dyspepsia. " Live 
on sixpence a day and earn it," attributed to Abernethy 
as the sum of his dietary for a gluttonous eater, is 
a maxim of value, endorsed by millions. But for the 
numerous sedentary workers in shops, offices, in 
business and professions of all kinds, the dish must 
not only be " complete ; " it must be so prepared as 
to be easily digestible by stomachs of moderate 
power, and it should also be as appetizing and agree- 
able as circumstances admit. 



CHAPTER V. 

Food of the middle-class Englishman, and its routine — Cookery, 
the process of rendering food digestible and nutritious by 
heat — First, heat applied through water — (a) Boiling — The 
process described — The effect of temperature in coagulating 
albumen — Treatment of meat in cooking depends solely on 
this action — Temperatures observed by thermometer during 
process of boiling — System of slow cooking at low tempera- 
tures — The " Bain Marie " — Captain Warren's pot — The 
Norwegian cooker — Boiling of vegetables — (J?) Steaming— 
{c) Stewing and braising — The distinction between them — 
Slow cooking at low temperatures and its value — Receipt 
for cooking a ham thus in thirty-six hours — BcBuf d la mode. 

On questioning the average middle-class Englishman 
as to the nature of his food, the all but universal 
Indifference answer is, "My living is plain, always 

to cookery roast and boiled " — words which but too 
among , , . ,. , , 

middle clearly indicate the dreary monotony, 

c asses. ^^^ ^^ ^^^ unwholesomeness, of his 

daily food ; while they furthermore express his satis- 
faction, such as it is, that he is no luxurious feeder, 
and that, in his opinion, he has no right to suffer from 
an indigestion. Joints of beef and mutton, of which 
we all know the very shape and changeless odours, 
follow one another at his table in the same unvarying 
order, six roast to one boiled, and have done so ever 



^^ Roast and Boiled.'" 91 

since he began to keep house some five and twenty 
years ago ! I am not sanguine enough to suppose 
that this uniform routine, which rules the dietary of 
the great majority of British families of moderate 
and even of ample means, will be disturbed by any 
suggestions of mine. Nevertheless, in some younger 
households, where habits, gradually forming through 
the force of example, have not yet hardened into 
law, there may be a disposition to adopt a healthier 
diet and a more agreeable variety of aliment. And 
this, it may be safely affirmed, will probably not be 
discovered by any researches for new forms of animal 
food. Often as the lament has been uttered, that 
some hitherto unknown product in the shape of meat 
or bird, cultivated or wild, is not to be found, seeing 
that the butcher's shop affords so small a range for 
choice, it is not from such a source that whole- 
some and pleasing additions to the table will be 
obtained. 

But the consideration of variety, and the method 
of attaining it, will occupy us hereafter. "Roast and 
At present we must deal with the " Roast Boiled." 
and Boiled " already referred to. These are, in fact, 
the Alpha and Omega, not as two terminal items in 
a series, but as constituting the sum total of the 
culinary forces known to our respected paterfamilias, 
excepting that he may, perhaps, admit with more 
or less hesitating approval, that the frying-pan, as 
a kitchen utensil, is certainly not to be entirely for- 
gotten. 



92 Food and Feeding. 

But of these processes, the principles which govern 

their application, and the elementary rules of the art 

in making it, he knows nothing, having never felt 

, interest therein. His cook probably 
Ignorance of 
the principles knows little more. She learned by 

"rule of thumb," and has always found 
its light suffice for the limited requirements hitherto 
made on her powers in such service. When she has 
to prepare one of the aforesaid joints, whether by 
"boiling" or by "roasting," it has probably never 
occurred to her to inquire what temperature the meat 
should attain in order to achieve her purpose, by 
either method ; nor, to tell the truth, was she ever 
curious about the matter. And there are not many 
mistresses who could inform her respecting the 
principles referred to, whatever familiarity they may 
possess with the practice of the culinary art. But 
No true art an acquaintance with principles tends 
Mderetand- largely to facilitate the perfect exercise 
ingthem, of all art; hence I shall very briefly 

sketch those which should be known, and are happily 
now being taught to the pupils who pass through 
a really efficient school of cookery. Completely 
yet rarely ignored by all the old kitchen manuals 
explained in and receipt books, being, in fact, un- 
known to their writers, they are equally 
wanting in some of the most popular modem guides 
to cooking. A few teachers and authors have learned 
to insist on their importance and expound them j 
but these are at present exceptions to the rule. 



Definition of Cookery. 93 

First, in order to illustrate what I mean by prin- 
ciples, I will define cookery as almost rnnkerv a 
invariably implying a process of render- process of 
ing various foods, whether animal or food attrac- 
vegetable, which cannot be agreeably or nuta-itious 
safely eaten in their natural state, attrac- ^"3 heat, 
tive, digestible, and nutritious, by the application of 
heat through different means or media, and at greatly 
differing degrees of temperature. 

I shall briefly consider, first, the process of cooking 

food through the medium of water, „ . 

Various 
employed at a temperature of 212 Fahr., methods 

as («) boiling ; by the steam only of 
boiling water, as {p) steaming ; afterwards as (c) 
stewing and braising, in which lower temperatures 
than boiling are adopted, while the process is con- 
tinued for a much longer period. 

Secondly, will follow the process of cooking food 
in dry heated air, as in («) baking ; or by radiation 
of heat from a clear fire, as in (5) roasting ; or on 
a grill above it, commonly known as (c) broiling. 

Lastly, the process of cooking by immersion in oil 
at a much higher temperature than can be obtained 
by any boiling in water, which is " frying.'' 

First, the cooking of meat by means of boiling 
water, although this is really effected in By means 
the interior of the portion or joint con- ^^t^j.. " 
siderably under the boiling temperature, "boiling." 
Water "boils" when heated to 212° Fahr. at the sea- 
level; but to attain the best results from cookery, 



94 Food and Feeding. 

a much lower temperature may be employed, as we 
shall learn hereafter ; " boiled meat " being, in fact, 
never really boiled throughout. It should also be 
remembered that the heat obtained by the act of 
boiling varies in proportion to the elevation of the 
spot above the level just named, at which the process 
takes place. Thus, water boils at a temperature 
several degrees lower for every thousand feet of 
elevation ; therefore in mountain climbing, it is quite 
possible to reach a height at which water boils when 
not sufficiently hot even to cook an e%'g efficiently, 
which can be done at i8o°. 

Now, in the culinary treatment of flesh of all kinds 
Two modes and of fish, by water, the object to be 
coSg attained by the process must first be 

°ieat ; distinctly apprehended. If from a given 

portion of flesh it is desired to extract as much of 
the soluble portions as possible, as for the purpose 
of making soup or beef-tea, the course pursued will 
be directly opposite to that which is necessary when 
the object is to prepare the portion for a dish to be 
consumed at the table. In the latter case, we desire 
to retain all the nutritive and sapid qualities of the 
meat within the portion, leaving none in the water 
used for cooking. In the former case, we leave the 
flesh, if possible, exhausted of flavour and nourishino- 
juices, nearly all of which we desire to find in the 
water employed. 

The principle relied on to accomplish our aim in 
each case is based on the fact that the albumen, 



Cooking Meat by Hot Water. 95 

which pervades both flesh and fish, is fluid and soluble 

at low temperatures, say above the 

depending on 
freezing-pomt up to about 1 50° Fahr., effect of heat 

, ., .. J 11 1 1- 1- on albumen, 

while it gradually becomes more solidi- 
fied and insoluble at temperatures of about 160° and 
upwards. Hence, if we desire to realize the first- 
named object, for stock soup or beef-tea, some meat, 
previously cut fine, is macerated for two i_ por 
or three hours in cool or tepid water, beef-tea; 
after which the temperature is very slowly raised to 
about 150°, and maintained there for some time. 
At the end of the process, not only much soluble 
nutritive matter referred to as albumen, but other 
valuable constituents, "extractives," and salts, will 
be found dissolved in the liquid also. See the 
process for making beef-tea, which will be found in 
the Appendix. 

If, on the contrary, we desire to retain within the 
portion, say a leg of mutton, all its 2. For cook- 
nutritive quality and its natural juices ins a joint, 
and its flavour, for a dish at table, the joint is to be 
immersed in a capacious pot of boiling commence 
water, to which a little salt has been with boiling 
added, and kept boiling for from five to seven 
minutes. The object of this is to solidify or coagu- 
late, as it is usually termed, a thin layer of albumen 
on the entire surface of the joint. By a few 
this means, the meat is enclosed in ^aUhl*" 
an impervious casing, which effectually surface; 
prevents the escape of all the fluid albumen of the 



96 Food and Feeding. 

interior, and of the salts into the surrounding water, 

however long the joint remains there. When the 

boiling has continued for the short time named, 

nothing will be gained by maintaining that high 

then a con- temperature ; it is, on the contrary, rather 

tinuous lower injurious than otherwise. The meat will 
temperature; , . , ,. . , , .. , 

"simmer- be m better condition at table if the pot 

^^' is removed a little from the fire, so that 

a temperature of six or eight degrees below boiling 
is sustained for the usual period of time required, 
which, of course, varies according to the size of the 
joint. This is what is understood by the term "sim- 
mering." Maintaining the water in a state of con- 
stant ebullition involves a large waste of fuel, and 
does not raise the temperature, either of the liquid 
or the meat a single degree. 

In order to ascertain what is the maximum tempe- 

„ . rature attained by " boiling " a lee of 

Experiment 00 

to ascertain mutton in the usual way, I have several 

interior of times pushed a self-registering thermo- 

joint while meter, provided with a pointed metal 

end, closely alongside the central bone 

to the middle of the joint ; and have never found, 

however thoroughly the meat has been cooked, that 

the mercury has risen above 186° or 187°; it has 

generally been a little below that limit. Let me say 

that such experiments have been made many years 

ago, I believe thirty or forty. At least twelve or 

fifteen years have elapsed since it was repeated by 

myself in both boiled and roasted meats in order to 



Experiments on Temperature. 97 



ascertain by personal observation that in eacii case 
meat could be well cooked at the temperature named. 
During the last winter, 1897-98, I have repeated 
these experiments very carefully, expressly for this 
edition, taking note of the exact result on each of the 
trials, twenty-four in number. They are as follows : — 



No. 


How- 
cooked. 


Name of joint. 


Time of 
cooking. 


Temp, 
found. 








hours. 


Fahr. 


I 


Boiled 


The top side of the round : beef . 


2j 


I87i° 


2 


Braised 


Ham, slow process, p. no . 


36 


170° 


3 


Boiled 


The top side of the round : beef . 


2i 


182° 


4 


Roast 


Sirloin of beef .... 


2i 


186° 


5 


Boiled 


Tongue 


S 


193° 


6 


J, 


The top side of the round : beef . 


2j 


i85° 


7 


)) 


Leg of mutton .... 


2i 


185° 


8 


Roast 


)> )»•••• 


2 


187° 


9 


ji 


Sirloin of beef .... 


2 


1901° 


10 


)» 


Leg of mutton .... 


2 


i87§° 


II 


>> 


Ribs of beef, rolled . 


2 


184° 


12 


J} 


Turkey 


I 


184° 


13 


Boiled 


Top side of the round : beef 


2i 


i86J° 


14 


Roast 


Sirloin of beef .... 


2i 


i87r 


15 


,t 


Saddle of roe venison from Black 










Forest, Germany . 


I 


176° 


16 


)i 


Leg of mutton .... 


2 


187° 


17 




Top side of the round : beef 


2i 


iSSi" 


18 


)i 


Saddle of mutton 


li 


185° 


19 


jj 


Leg of pork .... 


2 


183° 


20 


a 


Leg of mutton .... 


2 


184° 


21 


,, 


Sirloin of beef .... 


2 


188° 


22 


1, 


Fillet of veal .... 


2j 


I84i° 


23 


)) 


Top side of the round : beef 


2 


185° 


24 


j» 


Sirloin of beef .... 


2 


i8sJ° 



But it has long been known that for the purpose of 
thoroughly cooking flesh of any kind, Lo^^gy 
there is no necessity to maintain so 
high a temperature as that adopted by 
the ordinary method above described, 



temperatures 
cook best if 
enough time 
is given. 



98 Food and Feeding. 

provided that the time of exposure to the lower 
degree of heat is considerably prolonged. There is 
a generally accepted table, current in all cookery 
books, indicating the time which every joint requires, 
grounded on its weight ; but this always presupposes 
the boiling point of water, of course to commence 
with, and almost boiling sustained by continual com- 
bustion of fuel afterwards. The flavour of animal 
food is, by the system of prolonged low temperature 
referred to, better, and the meat itself more tender 
and more digestible ; a result which will inevitably 
bring into favour the practice of slow cooking 
when the best methods of conducting it have been 
adopted. 
That flesh so treated is easily digested is due to the 

Whv cook- ^^'^'^ ^^^ ^* *^^ temperature of 170° to 

ingatlow i8o° the albumen contained therein is 

heat makes „ . , , , , 

flesh sufficiently cooked but not overheated 

iges 1 e. g^j^^ hardened. Any temperature higher 
than the above-named tends to solidify it, and when 
exposed to too much heat, as often happens to a fried 
or over-broiled steak, it then becomes diminished in 
thickness and curved instead of being plump and 
tender, while the shrunken and indurated fibres of 
the over-cooked portion are difficult of digestion by 
an average stomach. 

An excellent mode of securing the desired object 
in boiling is to move the pot containing the portion 
of meat, as soon as the initial boiling of six or 
seven minutes is completed, to a small gas ring or 



Bain-marie : Warrens Pot. 99 

lamp, by which a gentle heat, that is, between i8o° 
and 190°, can be maintained for five or six hours 
or more, instead of the two hours usually required, 
say for a joint weighing twelve pounds or there- 
about. 

The " Bain-marie " is an old and very simple appli- 
cation of the principle chiefly employed i^^ "Bain- 
for the heating of sauces and for other "narie." 
purposes where it is desirable to avoid a temperature 
which might injure a delicate product, and especially 
any burning of it. It is simply a small thin saucepan 
suspended within a larger one adapted for the fire, 
and containing water which, when boiling, or nearly 
so, suffices to heat to a few degrees below its own 
temperature the contents of the inner vessel. This 
resembles the method on which the carpenter's 
glue-pot is constructed, with which most persons 
are familiar. * 

Captain Warren's cooking-pot is a further develop- 
ment of the same principle, which has 

long been a favourite with many who Warren's 

,, , cooking-pot. 

appreciate excellence and economy com- 
bined in the work which it is capable of doing. It 
is constructed on the plan of the "Bain-marie" just 
described, but is associated with a steam chamber 
on the top, to be used or not when required. This 
latter may be used for the cooking of vegetables, fish, 
and other foods, thus utilizing the steam formed by the 
boiling water contained in the larger outside vessel, 
which heats the inner one. But the inner is used not 



loo Food and Feeding. 

only for stewing and boiling purposes, but also as a 

dry cooker ; for no steam can enter it 
Its use in 

" drjr " from without, however used ; that is to say, 

a fowl or a portion of meat being placed 
therein can be slowly cooked without water by a pro- 
cess occupying about twice or three times as long 
as that employed for ordinary boiling or roasting. 
In this case the flesh furnishes a quantity of liquid, 
slowly disengaged by low temperature, rising as 
vapour at first, and becoming condensed, with its 
own natural juices, into a broth or gravy, in which, 
at the conclusion of the process, the flesh is found 
partially or wholly immersed. On the top of this 
floats more or less fat in a melted state, and this 
No loss by ^^" ^^ removed in the usual manner, 
this process. ]\Jq Jqss whatever takes place by this 
method. All the albumen, extractives, and juices of 
the flesh will be found in the inner saucepan when 

the process is completed. Thus a most 
How to cook ^ '^ 

an Irish admirable and tender Irish stew may be 

made by placing, say about three pounds 
of neck of mutton, cut chiefly from the lower half 
of it in the usual way, or improved, of course, by 
including some cutlets from the upper, with most of 
the fat removed, a little onion, sliced, adding no 
liquid whatever, only a little black pepper and salt 
Example of to taste. The outside pot should con- 
figlit low *^*" sufficient water to form a shallow 
temperature, bath for the inner pot which contains 
the meat ; the water should be boiling at the 



Value of Warren's Pot. loi 

commencement of the process, and for about a 
quarter of an hour afterwards, to antagonize the effect 
of the cold meat introduced. Then the pot should 
be removed to the corner of the fire, or over a gas 
ring, so as to maintain the external bath water at 
or about boiling point. At the end of five or six 
hours or so the meat will be found perfectly tender, 
delicately cooked, full of flavour, and amply supplied 
with its own excellent gravy. In fact, the cooking 
has been finally completed by means of a braise 
consisting of the gravy thus produced. When the 
melted fat has been removed, the potatoes, which 
have been partially cooked in the upper chamber or 
steamer, or in some other vessel separately, should 
be added to the meat in the inner chamber for about 
half an hour before serving in the usual manner, and 
a little stock added if required. 

The meat has been cooked at a temperature of 
about 185° or 190° at most, never approaching 200° : 
hence its digestibility from the circumstances ex- 
plained above. If the potatoes for the stew are 
cooked in the steamer, above the meat, the water 
must be kept boiling during the latter part of the 
process, about an hour, to supply steam for the 
purpose. The above, or a good-sized Cooking of 

fowl, can be cooked in a Warren pot of Ff"'*'^ '" 
' ^ same 

the smallest or least expensive size; but manner. 
I advise that a fowl should be first boiled in a 
separate vessel for five minutes only for reasons 
already given. Some think it an improvement to 



I02 Food and Feeding. 

add about half a pint of warm stock, to make, with 
the juices which escape, the basis of an excellent 
sauce when skimmed and thickened. And on the 
whole I think that poultry may be generally " boiled " 
with advantage in about a quart of light stock, when 
the ordinary process with a saucepan is used ; in 
either case adopting the slow process by low tem- 
perature, i.e. about 170° Fahr,, any of the liquor not 
required for sauce going to the stock-pot for white 
soups and sauces. And larger portions of meat may 
be cooked in the same manner in Warren pots of 
appropriate size. 

But still lower temperatures suffice if more time 
be devoted to the cooking ; and this is advantageous 
where the material to be cooked is unusually tough. 
An illustration of this principle has been familiar 

.^ . to some for many years, in the action 

Norwegian ■' ■' 

cooking of the Norwegian cooking apparatus ; 

but few people know how effective a 
prolonged moderate temperature is in producing 
tender and well-cooked viands of various kinds. 

This apparatus consists of a stout tinned iron cylin- 
Construction der 12 ins. high and 10 ins. in diameter, 
described. ^jj.jj ^ handle like that of a pail, which 
renders it portable, and a well-fitting cover. It is 
lined with a close packing of woollen materials i\ ins. 
thick, to prevent the escape of heat from the inner 
vessel, which contains the portion to be cooked. This 
vessel, also a cylinder, is made of tin, and has a " hot- 
water jacket " to be filled with boiling water, the only 



Norwegian Cooker. 103 

source of heat for the entire cooking operation. And 

its cavity, measuring 7 ins. in depth and 5J ins. in 

diameter, will hold a fowl weighing over two pounds 

in the vertical position, or the best end of a neck 

of mutton containing five bones when neatly trimmed ; 

and this latter should be accompanied with a few 

slices of onion and a little black pepper and salt, 

nothing else. 

The following mode of using it has been employed 

in my own kitchen, and the temperatures taken 

by myself. A fowl weighing two or two and a half 

pounds is put into a four or five quart saucepan, 

boiling on the fire or gas stove. Ebul- 

° Practical 

lition ceases for half a minute, owing to directions 

the coldness of the body introduced, ^'"^"singit. 

and then reappears : it should be continued actively, 

but for five minutes only. Then remove at once and 

place it without addition of any kind in the central 

cavity of the Norwegian cooker. Boiling water is 

next to be poured in to fill the hot-water jacket 

which surrounds it, and the lid made fast. But no 

fluid of any kind is put into the cavity with the 

fowl. The apparatus is now accurately closed, and 

set aside in a corner, screened from draughts, but 

not near to any source of heat, after which it is 

to remain untouched for eighteen or twenty hours. 

On opening it the fowl will be found perfectly 

cooked and tender throughout, and the „ . 

... , . Results, 

temperature of the liquor will be from 

about 80° to 90°. This should be skimmed from all 



104 Food and Feeding. 

fat, and serve as a basis for the sauce. The initial 
No waste boiling is of course intended to seal 
possible. |-jje surface, and to prevent the Juices 

of the bird from escaping ; but some portion will of 
course find its way out into the cavity, and is to be 
utilized in the manner suggested, so that no particle 
is lost. The fowl can be served at once, masked 
with a good white sauce or otherwise, according to 
Process for taste. The same process and time will 
mutton. cook mutton admirably. It will be quite 

tender, and its juice is also served as gravy in the 
dish. Vegetables can be cooked apart to garnish, 
chosen either for the purpose of a "haricot" or for 
an " Irish stew." 

A most useful lesson is thus afforded to illustrate 
the power of a low temperature, if continued long 
enough, to cook meat thoroughly, and at the same 
time to render it tender and digestible. It is not 
necessary, however, to adopt this apparatus for 
ordinary purposes. Equal results can be obtained 
in a shorter time by the Warren pot for all practical 
purposes, following the directions before given. 

A few words are necessary here respecting the 

Boiling of boiling of vegetables ; some of these are 

vegetables. perhaps better steamed, a question which 

will be considered below. For the most part, green 

vegetables are better boiled. They should be first 

thoroughly washed, to free them from 
Preparation. ,. , . , 

dn-t and msects, but not allowed to soak 

for an hour or more in water, which only does harm. 



Boiling Vegetables : Steaming. 105 

When ready to be cooked, they should be put into 

a saucepan of boiling water, to which salt has been 

added at the rate of a tablespoonful to half a gallon ; 

and if the water be hard, a very small 

Use of soda, 
quantity of soda should be used also ; 

if rain or any other soft water can be obtained, no 

soda should be employed. They should be kept 

briskly boiling during the time required, and generally 

without the saucepan-lid ; and the cooking should 

commence so as to be finished exactly at the time 

they are required at table, as they take injury by 

being kept standing for any length of time before 

they are served. It is best to transfer them at once, 

after careful draining, into hot vegetable dishes. 

Nothing looks more slovenly and disagreeable than 

water drained from the vegetables occupying the 

bottom of the vegetable dish. It should 

,. , , Boilingpeas. 

be remembered m boiling peas that soda 

is never to be used ; it destroys their delicate flavour ; 
if any addition is made, besides the usual quantity 
of salt, it should be a little sugar. 

b. Steaming, for various purposes, especially for 
cooking fish and some vegetables, is pre- 
ferable to boiling, because so much of 
their best constituents is lost by the latter process. 
Respecting its applicability to fish, see the chapter on 
the subject. Vegetables are deteriorated by the loss 

of their saline elements in boiling water : 
, . . ., . , . , • ,, ,- potatoes, 

this IS strikingly evident in the case of 

potatoes, which, peeled and boiled as they usually 



io6 Food and Feeding. 

are, become insipid, in comparison with those which 
are steamed or boiled in their "jackets." The value 
of the jacket is well-known to the Irish peasant, who 
rarely or never removes it until the tuber is cooked, 
and other ^^"^ other vegetables, such as cauliflower, 

vegetables. broccoli, brussel-sprouts, etc., should be 
steamed for the same reason, although the colour 
is not so bright and clear as when boiled, as 
they usually are, with a little soda added to the 
water. 

A simple steamer consists of a saucepan half- 
Tljg filled with water kept at boiling, and 

steamer. replenished as it wastes, with a cylin- 

drical receiver for the fish or vegetable, of about 
equal capacity, fitting to its top when the lid is 
removed, to take its place at the top of the 
receiver instead. This receiver admits through its 
base, which is perforated with small holes, a constant 
atmosphere of steam' at 212°. The cooking is thus 
ciTected with but very slight loss of the saline 
elements referred to. 

c. Stewing and Braising, processes by which meat 
and poultry are prepared and served in the most 
tender condition possible, and in an attractive form 
for the table, are somewhat neglected in this country. 
There is a marked distinction between "braising" 
and " stewing " not sufficiently recognized here ; 
hence, probably, the infrequency with which a true 
braise appears at our tables. 

Stewing. This consists in nothing more than a 



stewing, Bcettf a la Mode. 107 

long cooking in water at low temperature. Appli- 
cable to either beef or mutton, from which most 

of the fat should be removed, the 

,,,,,, , Stewing, 

meat should be placed, more or less 

divided into small portions with the bones belonging 

thereto, in an enamelled saucepan with a moderate 

quantity of water, a few vegetables for flavour, very 

little salt, and some pepper to taste. ^ „ 

^ '^^ On the pnn- 

The cover being put on, it should be ciplebylow 
1 , ,, . , , temperature, 

placed over a small gas rmg or charcoal, 

or on a portion of the hot plate, where it cannot rise 
to boiling-point. In fact, the temperature should 
never be above 170°, and continue three, four, or 
six hours according to the quantity ; at all events, 
until the meat is quite tender. The coarser and 
even tougher portions become by this process very 
digestible, appetizing, and nutritious. Much the 
same result may be obtained in the "Warren's 
cooking-pot " already referred to. 

A standard illustration of effective stewing or 
common braising exists in the produc- . 

tion of a well-known French dish, boeuf " boeuf a la 
d la mode, which is always good, when 
served in a simple, inexpensive manner for the 
people, and may be rendered most excellent with 
more care and refinement, so as to be suitable 
at a table of the highest rank. I shall subjoin 
Gouffd's receipt ; he regards the process as an im- 
portant and typical one, and gives it at length. See 
Appendix, p. 288. 



io8 Food and Feeding. 

Braising. Of this there are two methods, one 

simple, another more complex. In the 

' former, the meat may be just covered 

with a strong liquor of vegetable and animal juices 

(technically called braise or mirepoix) in a closely 

t^Q covered vessel, from which as little 

methods; evaporation as possible is permitted, 

and is cooked in the same manner as that above 

recommended here for stewing. By this treatment 

tough fibrous flesh, even if old, whether 
what it ^ ' 

accom- of poultry, of cattle, or meat unduly 

^'^ ' fresh, such as it is difficult to avoid 

during the summer heat in towns, is made tender 
and easily digestible. Moreover, it becomes im- 
pregnated with the odours and flavour of fresh 
vegetables (carrots, turnips, celery, onions) and sweet 
herbs, while the liquor itself, slowly reduced in the 
process, furnishes the most appropriate, fragrant, and 
delicious sauce, with which to surround the portion 

, ... when served at table. Thus, also, meats 

should be ' ' 

more popular which are dry, or with little natural 
flavour, as veal, become saturated with 
vegetable juices, and combined with sapid substances, 
which render the food succulent and delicious to the 
palate. Small portions sufficing for a single meal, 
however small the family, can be thus dealt with ; so 
that a r^ckauffi, or cold meat for to-morrow, is not a 
thing of necessity, but only of choice when preferred. 
To judge by the braised products which rarely 
appear on English tables, and by such descriptions of 



Braising, two Modes. 109 

it as exist in our cookery books, the process itself is 
scarcely understood. Certainly it is not one uniform 
method, to which the term is applied, and conse- 
quently an ordinary cook's conception of it is apt to 
be somewhat loose and indefinite. 

The first principle essential to a braise is, that the 
meat so to be treated must be very principles 
slowly cooked, that is, at a comparatively °^ braising, 
low temperature, and in a closely covered vessel, and 
with a small quantity of liquid. 

The second principle is, that the meat shall be im- 
pregnated in this process with the flavours of vege- 
tables, herbs, of highly flavoured cured meats, and 
some spices, and, if desired, with wine. This may be 
done without the mirepoix above described, namely, 
by placing in the braise-pot around the meat, slices of 
ham, smoked sausage, or bacon, cut carrots, parsnips, 
turnips, onions, various herbs, a bay leaf, cloves or 
other spices, together with a small quantity of good 
meat stock. Another way of conducting the braise, 
as already intimated, is to make beforehand a strong 
decoction of all these materials, with stock and wine, 
serving in part to flavour and in part to preserve the 
liquor or mirepoix, so that it may be kept for a time, 
ready for use when wanted. A small quantity of this 
is then to serve as the fluid in which the portion of 
meat or bird, etc., is to be braised. 

Perhaps no better illustration of the process can 
be afforded than the method of cooking a ham, 
which I have adopted for a good many years, with 



no Food and Feeding. 

results known to not a few of my friends, as successful 
in producing this favourite dish as a hot entremet, 
full of flavour, while the lean portion is absolutely 
tender and digestible. 

I have carefully formulated the steps of the process 
here, after experiments at different temperatures, and 
times devoted thereto. 

Receipt for cooking a ham at a low temperature 
Recent fo ^°"S continued. — I prefer a thick, plump 
cooking a ham, say from lo to 12 lbs. for a 
moderate sized party (12 to 16), York 
or Cumberland by choice. It must first lie some 
hours in cold water; if a highly smoked one, and 
you desire to retain the flavour, 8 or 10 hours will 
suffice ; if it is not much smoked, but has been fully 
salted, it should remain 12 hours or more. This 
to occupy process should be concluded at least 36 
36 hours. hours before the hour fixed for dinner. 

As soon as it is removed from the cold water, 
Previous scour with a softish scrubbing brush, so 

preparations. ^3 ^^ remove all dirt from the surface. 

You will have already prepared the day before a 
good meat stock well flavoured with vegetables, 
carrots, turnips, parsnips, onions, and a faggot of 
kitchen herbs. 

The ham is to be placed in an oval cooking-pot just 
adapted to its size ; sufficient of the above stock to 
cover the ham is to be added, allowing room for a 
few slices of the fresh vegetables just named to be put 
in also. Place the pot on the fire, and bring the stock 



Slow Cooking; for a Ham. 1 1 1 

soon to the boiling point, maintaining this for five 

minutes only, no more. Then withdraw the pot from 

the fire so that the stock may gradually cool to a 

temperature about 170°, but not exceed- Temoerat 

ing that. Keep it thus 12 hours. For never to 
, . ... , . exceed 170°- 

this purpose it is best to place it over a 

gas ring, which is easily regulated ; and to have a 
thermometer which ranges up to 212°, the boiling 
point, precisely like a "bath thermometer," that is, 
with a tin receptacle at the lower end guarding the 
bulb, only that the bottom of the receptacle should 
be cut away for kitchen use, otherwise organic matter 
would lodge there, soon decompose, and become 
noxious.* 

Suppose at the end of this time that by means of 
the thermometer, and by adjustment of the gas, that 
the temperature has been steadily maintained, pre- 
paration must be made for leaving it for the night, so 
that the temperature shall not henceforth exceed 
1 50° ; on the other hand, it shall not fall below 1 30°, 
With a little observation, it is easy to ascertain how 
much gas suffices to do this during the night ; and a 
small quantity of fresh stock to fully cover the ham is 
added the last thing. The cover of the pot being 
always on, the loss by evaporation is very small ; but 
towards the close of the process, the stock may be 
allowed to diminish one-third or so of the original 
quantity. 

* Negretti & Zambra, Regent Street, supply these made as 
described. See frontispiece for thermometer used. 



112 Food and Feeding. 

You will examine the thermometer on arriving at 
the kitchen in the morning. It may be found perhaps 
a little less than 130° which is a smaller error than a 
rise above 170°. With a sharp skewer ascertain in two 
places at least whether the ham is becoming tender. 
If it is quite so, all you have to do is to let the tem- 
perature be about 140° or so during the day until the 
next step in the proceeding. If still not tender 
enough, let it be 160°. If quite tender, let it be 130° 
or so. 

Supposing you have arrived at about four hours 
The wine before the time for serving, the ham is 
added. jjq^ taken out and skinned in the usual 

manner, then returned to the pot, together with a 
bottle of good wine emptied into it, which, of course, 
reduces the temperature. Raise this gradually to 
140° as before. If a red wine, let it be a good 
mid-quality Burgundy ; or a good red Italian wine 
may suffice. If white be preferred, a bottle of fair 
Sauterne or Graves. 

The temperature last named is to be continued 

„. until the ham is served. The remaining 

The SciucCi 

contents of the pot are now to be care- 
fully skimmed to remove fat, a portion strained 
through a tammy without addition, reduced to a 
glaze in a small saucepan, and served in a sauce-boat 
apart. Or, if preferred, a cherry or other acid-sweet 
sauce may be substituted. I strongly recommend 
the former for a ham which is served hot. 

It is very easy to overcook a ham in 36 hours, so 



Braising, the Complete Process. 113 

that the flesh falls from the bones, and can scarcely 

be cut. It is equally certain that it 

Ml . 1 , , . .,t , Caution, 

will not be so, although it will be 

deliciously tender, provided that the rules above 

given respecting the temperature are followed. 

The third principle in braising is not generally 
considered essential to the process, although it is un- 
doubtedly the last refinement necessary to produce a 
first-rate example. It is that of partially browning or 
half-roasting the portion also ; and this may be accom- 
plished in two ways. The legitimate or original way 
of doing this, is, to have well fitted to the braise-pot a 
sunk copper or iron cover, in which some hot cinders 
or charcoal are placed, towards the end of the process, 
when the braise is nearly finished, in order to transmit 
downwards a scorching heat to the top of the portion 
which is uncovered by the liquid in the pot below. 
The upper surface of the meat thus obtains that 
browning of the surface which is the crowning addi- 
tion to other flavours, before referred to as " the taste 
of the fire." In treating it thus, the portion should be 
covered, especially if a fowl, with a piece of white 
paper, which serves to shield a delicate morsel from 
a too fierce heat. The other and inferior way is to 
very lightly roast the meat, before putting it into the 
pot to braise, and so dispense with the hot cinders or 
charcoal on the cover ; but this hardens the flesh, and 
tends to prevent the juices penetrating it, and cannot 
be recommended. 

It may be seen, then, that a braise in which no 

H 



114 Food and Feeding. 

roasting is employed, does not, after the necessary 
materials have been prepared, require a great deal of 
attention, if the cook knows the corner of the fire or 
hot plate, where the slow and very gentle temperature 
will maintain itself regularly for three or four hours, 



CHAPTER VI. 

Secondly, cooking by dry heat in hot air — (i^) Baking — In dry 
compartments heated by steam — Becker's process and others 
— Atkinson's American oven — The Enghsh kitchener — (fi) 
Roasting — The " taste of the fire " — Its attractive peculiarity 
— (c) Broiling, another illustration of this — The process 
explained — The third method, cooking by high temperature 
in heated oil or frying — Process explained — ^A careful atten- 
tion to minute particulars necessary to insure success — The 
omelette — Opposite principles in French and English 
cookery considered — Superiority of each in certain par- 
ticulars. 

This chapter will be devoted to the application of 
heat in dry air for various processes of cooking 
ordinarily thus conducted, being the second method 
referred to at the opening of the last chapter, leading 
finally to the third and last method, viz. the use of 
the highest temperatures, obtained by "frying" in 
heated oil. 

Secondly, the application of heat in dry air by 
the processes known as "baking," "roast- ii_ cooking 
ing," " broiling." '" d""? ^'■■ 

(a) Baking. — Cooking in closed vessels, ovens or 
other compartments in dry heated air, whether the 
heat is obtained from adjacent fires, or from steam 



ii6 Food and Feeding. 

at a high temperature externally applied, may be 
regarded as a process of baking. The latter mode in 
which successful cooking is thus accomplished, with- 
out hardening the albuminoid tissues of meat, has 
been adopted on a large scale for institutions where 
the demand is constant and uniform in kind. A 
good example of this is the apparatus patented 

„ , , by Becker, of Berlin (1882). The 

Becker's ^ ' 

process; principle consists in ascertaining the 

temperatures best adapted for cook- 
ing each kind of food — for example, for making 
soup ; for producing tender flesh, juicy, and not 
over- dried ; and for serving vegetables in a condition 
adapted for digestion. The highest temperature of 
the three is generally demanded for the last-named, 
or the longest exposure to heat ; for the starch cells 
throughout the tissue must be burst to scatter their 
contents, before the required condition is attained. 
Different compartments in the apparatus are main- 
tained at varied temperatures by regulating the steam 
supplied to each, and the economy in fuel thus 
effected on the large scale on which this method is 
applied is considerable. This plan was adopted and 
systematically applied a few years ago by my friend, 
Mr. L. O. Smith, of Stockholm, for the operatives 
and their families in that city ; and detailed accounts 
of it were published at the time (1884) in this 
country. And the results were accepted as demon- 
strating the efficiency and the economy of cookery 
at low temperatures. 



Cooking in Hot Air. 117 

The Rev. Canon Moore Ede, of Gateshead, was 

attracted by Mr. Smith's successful use „ 

, Rev. Moore 

of Becker s apparatus, and visited Stock- Ede's 

holm for the purpose of testing its value. ^^P^'®" ^• 

He embodied his observations, which were in the 

highest degree favourable, in an admirable lecture 

on cheap food and cooking at Sunderland in 1884, 

which has since been cheaply printed, and had a 

deservedly large sale.* He employed for his cheap 

dinners for children a large box of sheet-iron, felted 

throughout inside, two and a half inches thick, and 

lined with tin-plate. Two gas jets will raise the 

contents (thirty gallons) to the boiling point, and a 

very small amount of flame suffices to maintain the 

lower temperatures preferred for as many hours as 

are required. 

Some twelve years or more ago, a very complete 

and efficient apparatus, adapted for all Mr. E. At- 

the uses of a small or large family, ••Aladdin 

was designed and thoroughly tested in Oven." 

America by Mr. Edw. Atkinson, of Brookline, Mass. 

He first introduced the apparatus to the public as 

the "Aladdin Cooker," for boiling, stewing, etc., and 

has rendered it more useful and efficient for all 

methods of cooking, except broiling and frying, 

under the name of the "Aladdin Oven." 

* " Cheap Food and Cheap Cooking." London : W. Scott, 
14, Paternoster Square. Price id. 1884. There are excellent 
hints on the management of penny dinners for school children. 
See also " Children's Dinner Tables," in the Appendix. 



1 1 8 Food and Feeding. 

Much is often said of the economy effected by all 

„ . , these methods of slow cookery, on the 
Question of , . , 

economy ground of the smaller loss m weight 

consi ere . produced by them, as compared with 
roasted meats. This is much less than would appear 
at first sight to be the case. It is quite true that 
a joint weighing fourteen pounds when roasted or 
baked may weigh only eleven, and if cooked in the 
low-temperature chamber may be finished at twelve 
pounds and a half. The difference in weight is due 
to loss of water only ; the far-reaching cooking odours 
amount to nothing. These are produced by slight 
scorching of the surface, one result of which is a highly 
appreciated and appetizing flavour in a very thin 
superficial layer, giving character to roasted and 
broiled meats, which cannot be obtained by any slow 
or closed-chamber process. Mr. Atkinson cleverly 
imitates the appearance of a roast in colour and dry- 
ness of surface by slightly buttering the outside of 
the joint to be "roasted," and covering it with fine 
crumbs, or better still, the raspings of a French roll, 
which will give a browner and a crisper covering. 
But a true roast which " tastes of the fire " can only 
be really produced in front of a well-prepared open 
range. 

The principle on which all of them act is to 
prevent the escape of heat by constructing the oven 
of materials which are thoroughly non-conducting, 
and therefore do not consist of metcil, invariably em- 
ployed for kitchen ranges. Metal conducts heat away 



Various Modes: Atkinson's. 119 

rapidly, and requires constant supplies of fresh heat, 
a process which renders difficult the maintenance of 
an equable temperature, besides being costly through 
wasteful consumption of fuel. The thick Construc- 
sides of the Aladdin oven are made of *'°°' 
indurated and incombustible papier mdcM, or of a 
wood pulp, desiccated, which is practically almost the 
same thing, one of the best non-conductors of heat 
known, with a thin metallic lining ; the interior cavity 
available for cooking, which is divided by movable 
horizontal partitions for different dishes, measuring 
from a foot to a foot and a half in every direction, 
in the sizes at present mostly used. The heat is 
supplied to the oven by means of an oil lamp below, 
or by gas ; in either case the amount supplied being 
always under the control of the cook. The whole 
of this heat, or nearly so, is conveyed into the interior 
of the chamber — no admission of the products of 
combustion from the lamp or of gas with the air 
there being possible — to be utilized for culinary pur- 
poses. A chimney is unnecessary, as the waste pro- 
ducts of the small flame required are inconsiderable, 
and may escape into the apartment. There being 
so little loss of heat, the plan is admirably adapted 
for hot summer weather, since the stove radiates no 
perceptible warmth into the surrounding air. It is 
not intended for cooking rapidly, but at Mode of 
a rate during the day requiring fully "^'"S- 
double the time consumed by the common kitchen 
range, while for soup-making, stews, or any other 



I20 Food and Feeding. 

procedure which it is desired to accomplish at a low 

temperature, and by which the best results are 

attained, it should be left at work all night with a 

small jet of gas beneath as the only source of heat. 

Bread may be made in it very successfully when the 

boiling and baking processes necessary for a meal 

have been completed, and much heat remains still to 

be utilized.* 

ip) Roasting, or the cooking of meat by heat through 

Cooking radiation, and by heated dry air in front 

meat by qj- ^ clear, bright fire : the heat radiating 

radiation. » t> > t> 

(b) " Roast- from which into the " roaster,'' a metallic 
'"S- enclosure open towards the fire only, and 

containing the joint, turned therein by means of a 
bottle-jack. The fire, being at its best, the joint, 
poultry, or game, is placed very near at first — an 
analogous proceeding to the initial step in boiling — 
in order to seal the entire surface by coagulating its 
albumen at the outset, and so enclose the fluids 
securely within (see p. 95). This is accomplished in 
about eight to ten minutes for a large joint, or in four 

* " The Art of Cooking," by E. Atkinson, LL.D. New York : 
Appleton. 1889. A paper reprinted from the Science Monthly 
for November, 1889, and other reports and papers subsequently. 

Since that date Mr. Atkinson has carried his researches much 
further, embracing the economic and scientific bearings of food- 
production, the nature of man's wants in relation thereto, with 
their results in the form of dietetics appropriate under varied 
circumstances, in a work full of information on all these subjects, 
entitled " The Science of Nutrition, and the Art of Cooking by 
the Aladdin Oven," with directions and receipts. Boston : 
Damrell & Upham. 1896. 



Roasting : Taste of the Fire. 121 

or five for a piece of poultry. The roaster is then 

drawn half a foot to a foot further back, so as to 

diminish the heat thenceforward. The „. 

Gives oppor- 

opportunity of basting the joint, which, tunity for 

especially towards the close of the pro- ' 

cess, should be frequently done with dripping from 

the pan below, is one of the advantages of this mode 

of cooking, which cannot be secured by any process 

of baking in an oven. The surface would 

value of. 
become over-dried by the heat, cracked, 

thus permitting vapours to escape, and even charred, 

were it not for the basting, which preserves it moist 

and flexible, and ensures only that precise degree of 

browning, with its agreeable aroma, which is found 

by a connoisseur so precious for its peculiar flavour 

and scent. Want of diligence in using the ladle, and 

of care in regulating the fire, occasions the fat to be 

decomposed and burnt with much evil odour and 

savour. Certainly the proper roasting of poultry 

and game is quite unattainable by any other 

method. 

The well-known " taste of the fire," so appreciated 

by the gourmet, is produced by actual xhe " taste 

carbonization of the surface of the of the fire." 

roasting portion of the food, and may be largely 

recognized as precious to man, far beyond the domain 

of cookery, strictly so-called. Within it, however, this 

specific quality gives character and value to the 

surface of all broiled and grilled meats ; to those 

also which are well browned in frying ; to a slice 



122 Food and Feeding. 

of well-made toast (bread) ; to a thoroughly baked 
potato, the coat of which is partly browned and 
crackled ; to the "black onion," which develops a 
marvellous sweetness by the same process ; and 
almost always its peculiar charm to the pancake, 
which without it would be flabby and flavourless. 
All the character possessed by caramel, or browned 
sugar, is derived from the carbonization being carried 
so far only that a little sweetness should still linger, 
although a delicate aromatic bitter is produced, each 
flavour enhancing the attraction of its associate ; 
while a new beauty, that of colour, also results. All 
the inimitable fragrance of coffee is an effect of the 
same remarkable change of which partial carboniza- 
tion by heat is the agent. Then the burning of 
almonds, and the roasting of nuts in all their variety, 
furnish further illustrations of the principle. 

So, carbonized wood, for the sake of the essential 
oils which are burned and volatilized in the rising 
smoke, the odours of which are thereby changed and 
communicated to salted meats and fish, thus con- 
ferring upon them a peculiar aroma with a slight 
bitterness of taste, as we all so well know, in 
smoked bacon, hams, tongues, herrings, haddock, 
and salmon. 

Thus it is also to the sense of smell, so closely 
allied as it is with that of taste — of which I shall 
have to say something hereafter — that the odour of 
burning weeds and other vegetable matters is so 
delightful on a fine quiet evening in the country 



The Range: Baking, Broiling. 123 

as it floats in an atmosphere undisturbed by the 
breeze. 

To return after this I hope permissible digres- 
sion ; a joint of meat may, however, be well cooked 
in the oven of an ordinary kitchener or complete 
cooking range, as now usually made, so as closely to 
resemble the result obtained by true roasting. The 
conditions are a good supply of heat, ^s , 
far as possible from the top and both to roast in 
sides of the oven, the ability to ventilate ^ °'^°* 
when desired, a pan to catch the dripping beneath 
the grating on which the joint rests, that pan resting 
on another an inch or two deeper, containing water 
below, the evaporation of which maintains the dripping 
at a moderate temperature, rendering impossible its 
decomposition or burning with its all-pervading 
offensive odour. In this way the nearest approach 
has been made to accomplish in an oven the results 
achieved by roasting; and for joints of meat it is 
almost successful. It is not possible thus to acquire 
the effect which constant basting of the roast attains, 
and for game certainly the latter process should be 
employed. Those who desire to pursue j^ . 
this subject further are strongly advised Williams' 
to make themselves acquainted with a 
work, already referred to, by Mr. M. Williams. It 
deals with the subject very fully, while its lucid and 
interesting style renders it very attractive ; moreover, 
it abounds in quaint and suggestive hints, and is 
valuable, particularly to those who desire to avoid 



124 Food and Feeding. 

needless expenditure, and to preserve an intelligent 
method in the exercise of the household economies.* 

(c) Broiling. — Respecting this, I shall say no more 
, > BroUine- ^^"^^ *^^" *^^^ ^^ operation resembles 
directions that of roasting, but is applicable to a 

' small portion of flesh, and can be rapidly 

conducted on the gridiron over a clear fire or upon 
a gas grill, which latter can be made available at a 
moment's notice. A clear and smokeless fire is often 
not to be had without considerable delay and pre- 
paration, and then must be exclusively devoted to 
the grill as long as this is required, to the exclusion 
of other processes, except those which are to be 
conducted on the adjacent hot plate. The object 
is to seal the surface of the meat by heat at first, not 
permitting the temperature of the interior to rise to 
a higher point than just suffices to render it tender, 
as it becomes filled and expanded by its own juices, 
which are yielded abundantly in the form of rich red 
gravy when the meat is cut by the consumer a few 
minutes afterwards. Hence the morsel, plump and 
rounded by the action of the heat, must not be touched 
by a fork, the perforations thus made permitting the 
rich natural juices of the meat to escape, but be 
turned when necessary with a pair of light tongs. 
The value of the grill is, perhaps, nowhere better 
understood than in England, especially in relation 
to chops, steak, and kidney ; portions of fowl, or a 

* " The Chemistry of Cooking," by Mattieu Williams. 
London : Chatto & Windus. 1885. 



Broiling and Frying. 125 

split chicken, the bladebone, or even a small shoulder 
of mutton — all of which may be thus served in per- 
fection by a competent hand. Still, it is not quite 
so widely appreciated as it deserves to be in the 

preparation of many a small dish of .. ,, 

. , ^ , , „ available for 

fish, fowl, and meat, or " a bone, to say many little 

nothing of a grilled mushroom, either 
alone, or as an accompaniment to any of them. And 
it may be worth while, perhaps, remarking that the 
sauce par excellence for broils is mushroom ketch- 
up ; and the garnish cool lettuce, watercress, or 
endive. 

Lastly, Frying. — Cooking by immersion in oil 

or melted fat at temperatures greatly 

FrvinsT 
exceeding that of boiling water, and 

popularly known as frying. This process is rarely 

understood, and is generally very imperfectly practised 

by the ordinary English cook. The products of our 

frying-pan are often greasy, and there- 

and the 
fore for many persons indigestible, the rationale 

shallow form of the pan being unsuited Process, 
for the process of cooking at a high temperature in 
oil, that is, at a heat of about 350° to 390° Fahr., 
that of boiling water being 212°. This high tempe- 
rature produces results, which are equivalent indeed 
to quick roasting, when the article to be cooked is 
immersed in the nearly boiling fat Frying, as gene- 
rally conducted, is rather a combination of broiling 
and toasting or scorching; and the use of the deep 
pan or bath of heated oil or dripping, which is 



126 Food and Feeding. 

essential to the right performance of the process, 
and especially in order to prevent greasiness, is the 
exception, and not the rule in ordinary kitchens. A 
Practical ^^'^ words of explanation are necessary 

directions. jjj relation to the temperature of the fat 
which forms the frying bath, a matter of importance 
to ensure satisfactory results. When a bath of melt- 
ing fat is placed on the fire and the temperature has 
risen to 212°, some bubbles come to the surface with 
a hissing sound ; these are due to a small portion of 
water, inherent in the solid dripping, especially if it 
has been clarified previously with hot water, so fre- 
quently necessary, which, being converted into steam, 
rise until all is got rid of This is not the boiling 
of the fat, which is now tranquil, and when the 
temperature has advanced much higher, to something 
like 340°, a slight vapour is given oflf. If the fat is 
permitted to become much hotter, smoke appears, 
indicating a degree of heat to be avoided, and that 
the fat has reached what is called the boiling point, 
when it decomposes and spoils. Before this is reached, 
the heat should be tested by putting in a slip of 
bread, which if browned in a few seconds, a sufficient 
temperature has been attained, and the bath is ready 
for use. The above remarks apply equally to the 
temperature of any oil used for the same 
of high purpose. The principle on which suc- 

cess depends is, that at the moment of 
contact with the almost boiling fat or oil, a thin film 
of every part of the surface of the fish or other object 



Process of Frying. 127 

to be fried is coagulated, so that the juices with their 
flavours, etc., are at once locked up within, and nothing 
can escape. The bath should therefore contain 
quantity sufficient to permit the complete immersion 
of the portion to be fried, and also be hot enough 
to effect this result in an instant, after which, and 
during the short time requisite to cook the interior, 
the heat is often slightly lowered with advantage. 
The fish or other material employed emerges when 
done, with a surface to which a little oil adheres, 
but this will drain off owing to its extreme fluidity 
when hot, if left on a napkin slanting a minute or 
two before the fire — better still, on white blotting- 
paper ; and thus it may be served absolutely free 
from grease. The film of egg often applied to the 
surface of an object to be fried, is in the same manner 
instantly coagulated and forms an impermeable case ; 
while the fine bread crumbs adhering to it take a bright 
yellow colour, being slightly charred or toasted by 
the high temperature they are exposed to. In order 
to be free from grease when served the Avoid 
bread or biscuit crumbs should be very gi^ease; 
fine, adhering by means of a very thin layer of &gg 
previously applied by the brush. If the crumbs are 
coarse anji the egg is used too abundantly, grease 
will adhere to the surface or be absorbed by it ; 
thus a thick indigestible case covers the fish, a con- 
dition in which, unhappily, it commonly appears 
at table, even in the better class of hotels in this 
country. 



128 Food and Feeding. 

Excellent and fresh olive oil, which need not be so 

the value of perfect in tint and flavour as the choicest 

olive oil ; kinds reserved for the salad-bowl, is the 

best available form of fat for frying, and is sold at 

a moderate price by the gallon for this purpose at 

the best Italian warehouses. Nothing, perhaps, is 

, ,, , better than well-clarified beef dripping, 
and of beef ^^ ^' 

fat or such as is produced, often abundantly, 

ripping. .^ most English kitchens ; but the time- 
honoured traditions of our perquisite system some- 
times enable an English cook to sell this for herself, 
at small price, to a little trader round the corner, 
while she buys, at her employer's cost, a quantity of 
pork lard for frying material, at double the price 
obtained for the dripping. Unfortunately, however, 
lard is the worst menstruum for the purpose, the 
most difficult to work in so as to free the matters 
fried in it from grease ; and we might be glad to 
buy back our own dripping from the aforesaid little 
trader, at a profit to him of cent, per cent., if only 
the purchase could be diplomatically negotiated. 
But so sweet is acquisition by way of perquisite, 
that few of the present race of cooks appeared willing 
to part with this particular one for any consideration 
which can be off"ered. I am glad to learn, since the 
foregoing was written in an early edition, that a 
more honest system is coming into vogue. Well 
clarified dripping, consisting of the fat or suet about 
the kidney especially, with a small proportion of fat 
from cooked pork (not the lard of the shop), is said 



The Omelette. 129 

by some of the first practitioners of the art to be the 
best menstruum to employ. 

There is one dish which may be mentioned here 
appropriately, of which English cooks 1^,5 
have not much practical knowledge; omelette; 
very few can make a tolerable omelette: and thus 
one of the most delicious and nutritious products of 
culinary art, with the further merit that it can be 
more rapidly prepared than any other dish of equal 
value, especially to the traveller, must really at present 
be almost regarded as an exotic. The method of 
proceeding is one which it is almost impossible to 
describe in writing, and no cookery book instructions 
which I have ever seen convey a notion of the neces- 
sary manipulation in which the whole art consists — 
to the uninitiated. Competent instruction at first 
and some practice are undoubtedly required, in order 
to attain a mastery in producing an omelette ; but 
these given, there ought to be no difficulty in turning 
out an excellent specimen. The ability to do this 
may be so useful in the varied circumstances of 
travel, etc., that no young man destined for foreign 
service, or even who lives in chambers, the making 
should fail to acquire so desirable an practic^y 
accomplishment It can only be done learned, 
by learning it practically from an efficient teacher. 

I have an observation to make relative to the 
general treatment of flesh in cookery (butcher's meat, 
poultry, and game), which finds its place appro- 
priately here. It relates to one of the fundamental 

I 



130 Food and Feeding. 

principles of the culinary art, and should be con- 
sidered by all who are interested in the subject 
before regarding questions of detail. I ask attention 
to it because I do not know that any writer has 
explained the origin of widely differing methods in 
the practice of culinary art, adopted in France and 
England respectively. These two distinct systems 

have been produced as the result of 
character- circumstances, the force of which may 
English ^^ easily recognized, dominating the 

and French treatment of flesh provisions particularly, 

on principles directly opposed to each 
other. One of these characterizes the best English 
cookery, while the other has been, and still is, to a 
large extent, the ruling principle of French cookery. 
Both are rational — each system, perhaps, the better 
of the two in its own place ; and only illogical 
products and examples of defective taste can arise 
in practical cookery by confounding the two, an 
error, however, which is far from uncommon. In 
spite of the admiration which it is impossible to 
withhold for the talent of the French cook, it is 
nevertheless in France that the confusion I speak of 
is chiefly to be met with. And it is only in our own 
country, I venture to affirm, that the principle or 
system in question is carried out to perfection. The 
The English English principle is, that our own meat 
'^^* > and game shall be presented at table in 

the highest state of perfection attainable, so far as 
breeding, feeding, and keeping can accomplish it, 



French and English Cookery. 131 

each animal, when served, to be characterized by 
its own proper flavour, which is on no account to 
be masked or disguised by others, which are adven- 
titious. Delicate additions tending to , , 

^ perfect 

heighten the natural flavour, or agree- within its 
ably subordinated to it, shall alone be 
admitted. It is a principle which can be successfully 
followed only where these meats exist in high per- 
fection : where meat is inferior or insipid, an opposite 
treatment is the better one. And I do not hesitate 
to claim for the intelligent English consumer, that 
it has long been essentially his aim to cultivate the 
best meat and game in the world, and to enjoy its 
intrinsic qualities for their own sake, unalloyed by 
any of those additions in the form of finely flavoured 
sauce, which are so valuable for improving materials 
which do not possess their own distinctive fine 
qualities and flavours ; while his proximity to the 
seashore and numerous streams enables him to enjoy 
fish of all kinds absolutely fresh and in the finest 
condition. 

The opposite principle is that which has been 
developed in association with the pro- xhe French 
duction of meats and poultry which are '*^^ ! 
naturally somewhat insipid. Since it has not been 
the custom to rear in France fine mature beef or 
mutton, as we understand those meats here, but 
rather to consume almost exclusively an immature 
product, veal, as well as poultry, much of which 
although the best of its kind, is naturally wanting 



132 Food and Feeding. 

in sapid characters, these have become, and rightly 
so, the vehicles of various delicious adventitious 
flavours, for the purpose of displaying which the 
its value white meats are valued, rather than for 

and utility. ^q;^^ inherent qualities. This character 
of veal is illustrated in a passage occurring in the 
first number of the famous Almanack des Gourmands, 
which appeared in Paris at the commencement of the 
present century : — " Veal lends itself to so many 
metamorphoses that we may fairly term it 'the 
chameleon of cookery.' " * Precisely the same view 
is held by Brillat-Savarin, but in relation to poultry, 
when he says, " Poultry is for cookery what canvas is 
to the painter." t In such conditions, therefore, it is 
natural that the French cuisine should be essentially 
distinguished for its sauces, by which it adorns and 
transforms material in itself somewhat uninteresting 
or uninviting. 

The Englishman loves the flavour of three or four 

„ . years' old mutton (unhappily almost a 

Con^arison •' \ rr .» 

of the two tradition now), mature beef, the wildest 
game, both winged and ground ; and he 
cares not how little of " sauce " is supplied — he 
demands only " gravy " — so that these are in fine 
condition, sufficiently, not over-kept, and simply 
cooked, for the most part carefully roasted. To 
lard fine full-flavoured tender mutton or venison is, 
for him, to desecrate them ; to lard or farce a grouse 

* Almanack des Gourmands, p. 17. Paris : 1803. 
t " Physiologic du Goftt," p. 30. Paris : 1843. 



Comparison of Methods. 133 

or partridge is the reverse of a compliment equally 
to the game, if mature, and to the guest, if a con- 
noisseur. A young and tender English partridge is 
not improved, I venture to submit, even by larding, 
although the reverse is true of quail. 

The French chef treats the white meat, veal and 
domestic poultry, with so many ingeniously contrived 
sauces, as to render those two meats as good as six. 
So successful is the achievement, that he is too often 
tempted to extend his art to dark-fleshed game, and 
seeking to adorn it with new flavours, destroys the 
original savour and aroma, in which consists for us 
the value of the dish. 

During the last few years, however, I have been 
happy to observe signs of a change in French 
the practice of the best French cooks appreciation, 
in this respect, as well as sometimes to find meats 
of better and more mature kind in Paris than 
formerly. One of the best illustrations of the value 
of the principle I have above referred to as that of 
old English cookery, I met with a few years ago, 
served to myself and a friend, in an excellent and 
well-known restaurant very near the Place de I'Op^ra. 
It was brought to me as a novelty, and a happy 
the method of realizing the idea I con- illustration, 
cede to be so, and in its way perfect in execution. 
It consisted of a very fine wild duck, simply but 
lightly and delicately roasted, and served without 
an atom of sauce. The maitre d' hotel having placed 
the bird before us on a dish heated by a spirit lamp 



134 Food and Feeding. 

below, cut three long handsome slices on each side 
of the breast-bone, beautifully red although perfectly- 
cooked, and full of natural juice, removing thus, in 
fact, all that is prime and really worth eating. Leaving 
these in the hot dish and replacing the cover, he 
placed on the table before us a powerful nickel- 
silvered press, the size of a tea-urn or samovar, put 
the whole of the remains of the bird into it, and with 
a few turns of the lever, applied the screw so as to 
express when the tap was turned a sufficient quantity 
of hot, rich, red juice to serve as our only, and indeed 

most exquisite sauce. The only admis- 
additions sible additions would be the scent of 

a fresh lemon and a few drops of its 
juice with a grain or two of Nepaul pepper; or a 
little well-made Bigarade sauce (see my receipt at 
p. IS4)- 

The pinions, legs and back, indeed all but the 
sliced breast, had been thus compelled to yield all 
their fluids, in the form of about a coffee cupful of 
what might be called the very essence of the bird. 
Such treatment precisely accords with our own view 
of what is the best, and was most admirably realized. 
Let us continue to cultivate the finest meats and 
game, presenting them when in the most perfect 
condition for the table, and serve simply, or with 
only such subordinate adjuncts as tend to heighten, 
not to obscure, the natural character of the original. 
We shall then have no cause to be ashamed of the 
course in which they appear at an English table. 



IVild Duck in Perfection. 135 

But I freely concede that in making the best of 
second-rate and insipid morsels, we have still a good 
deal to learn, on the score of sauces, garnish, and 
serving, from the great school of culinary art in 
France. 



CHAPTER VII. 

Soups — Not sufficiently esteemed — Better understood in France 
— Pot-au-feu — The " stock-pot " — Bouillon — ConsomrrU— 
Endless varieties produced from these — Three distinct 
classes of soup — i. The clear : of meat, fowl, and game ; 
and vegetables or maigre — 2. The thick or purdes : of the 
same — Various illustrations of these — 3. More substantial 
soups : turtle, ox-tail, and other examples — Bouillabaisse — 
Soups, gras and maigre — Receipts for vegetable soup — 
Practical hints in making the above. 

I THINK it may be said that soups, whether clear 

(that is, prepared from the juices of 

neglected meat and vegetables only) or thick (that 

^ *" is, purees of animal or vegetable matters), 

are far too lightly esteemed by most classes in 

England, while they are almost unknown to the 

working man. For the latter they might furnish an 

important cheap and savoury dish ; by the former 

they are too often regarded as the mere prelude to 

a meal, to be swallowed hastily, or disregarded 

an important altogether as mostly unworthy of atten- 

formofdiet tion. The great variety of vesretable 
for all. , ... , ., 

purees, which can be easily made and 

blended with light animal broths, admits of daily 



Soup Making. 137 

change in the matter of soup to a remarkable extent, 
and affords scope for taste in the selection and com- 
bination of flavours. The use of fresh vegetables in 
abundance — such as carrots, turnips, parsnips, arti- 
chokes, celery, cabbage, sorrel, leeks, and onions — 
renders such soups wholesome and appetizing. The 
supply of garden produce ought in this utilizing 
country to be singularly plentiful ; and, adf^'''^ 
owing to the unrivalled means of trans- tageously. 
port, all common vegetables ought to be obtained 
fresh in every part of London. The These should 
contrary, however, is unhappily the fact. ^^ fresh. 
It is a matter of extreme regret that vegetables, 
dried and compressed after a modern method, should 
be so much used as they are for soup by , hotel- 
keepers- and other caterers for the public. Un- 
questionably useful as these dried products are on 
board ship, and to travellers camping out, to employ 
them at home, when fresh can be had, is the result 
of sheer indolence or of gross ignorance. All the 
finest qualities of scent and flavour, with some of the 
fresh juices, are lost in the drying process ; and 
the infusions of preserved vegetables no more re- 
semble a freshly made odoriferous soup, than a cup 
of that thick brown, odourless, insipid mixture, con- 
sisting' of some bottled "essence" dissolved in hot 
water, and now supplied as coffee at most railway 
stations and hotels in this country, resembles the 
recently made infusion of the freshly roasted berry. 
It says little for the taste of our countrymen that 



138 Food and Feeding. 

such imperfect imitations are so generally tolerated 

without complaint. 

How different is the result of intelligent cookery, 

„ , as we find it exemplified in the simple 

Example: ^ 

the national national soup of France. Here the 

appetizing odours of fresh meat and 

vegetables are discerned with pleasure, the moment 

a pot-au-feu enters the room. Relative to this dish 

so much has of late appeared in public prints, failing 

to explain what is understood in France by it, that 

I think an accurate description of what it really is 

may prove acceptable here. 

"Y^iG. pot-au-feu is a composite dish which produces, 
"Pot-au- ^'^^'^> ^ simple, but not strong, beef broth 
^^' {bouillon), well flavoured by fresh vege- 

tables ; secondly, a somewhat over-cooked and ex- 
hausted piece of beef {bouilli), which is served after 
the soup ; and, lastly, the vegetables themselves. 

This is a different thing from the common " stock- 
differs from P°* " °^ *^^ French peasant, so frequently 
the " stock- termed a pot-au-feu, and confounded 
^° ' with it. The primary object of a " stock- 

pot" is to make a decoction or basis for soup — of 
animal food, if possible — and every morsel of flesh, 
poultry, trimmings from joints, bones well bruised, 
etc., which are available for the purpose, are reserved 
for it. To the pot of the peasant, who wastes 
nothing whatever, all things are welcome ; and every 
atom of nutritive material — solid or liquid — goes into 
it, to which are always added herbs and vegetables, 



The Pot-au-Feu. 139 

together with the liquor in which any of the latter 
may chance to have been boiled. But sometimes 
it is a pot maigre, no meat of any kind "gras," or 
having been procurable ; and very good "maigre." 
vegetable soups, moreover, are educible therefrom, 
of which more hereafter. Then again, besides, or 
instead of the slices of bread which are usually put 
into the broth when served, the good wife now and 
then cleans a fresh cabbage, boils it in water, as 
much as possible of which she removes by pressure 
in a cloth, then puts the cabbage for a few minutes 
into her pot, and finally serves it as a welcome 
addition to the dish. But in none of these forms can 
the true pot-ati-feu be recognized ; and no Frenchman 
who has the least acquaintance with the national 
cookery will allow it to rank as one. 

The pot-au-feu has for its object, as already stated, 
not only the making of a well-flavoured p j i. f 
fe^ broth, but the cooking of a portion the"pot- 
of the beef to be eaten separately after, 
either cold or hot, according to taste, together with the 
vegetables necessarily associated with it. Formerly, 
this bouilli always appeared at an ordinary French 
table immediately after the bouillon; but although 
still retaining some nutritious elements, it is not 
much esteemed, certainly by those who can aiiFord 
better food, and it has gradually disappeared during 
the last few years. So the pot-au-feu has come to 
signify at ordinary tables only a soup, and it may 
appear at the best tables in that capacity; still, 



140 Food and Feeding. 

strictly as a beef broth, but of the most perfect 
kind, well seasoned and flavoured by herbs and 
vegetables. The well-known soups so admirably 
served at a good Paris restaurant as paysanne and 
croute-att-pot respectively, are but slight modifications 
of the original pot-au-feu. 

To return to the family stock-pot. This has, on 
-j-jjg the Continent, especially in families of 

stock-pot ^.jjg middle class, another use beside that 
of preparing a basis for soup. Thus when a boiled 
fowl is required, it is a common practice to conduct 
the process in the liquor of the stock-pot. Any 
nutritive matter, however small, which might have 
been lost in the water used in ordinary boiling, is 
saved for the soup, while a fowl boiled in stock is 
certainly preferable when it comes to table, to one 
which has been boiled in water. And so with many 
other articles ; for example, a small and well cleaned 
ham may be cooked — and this is an affair of several 
hours — in a capacious stock-pot, with advantage 
equally to the soup and the ham, provided, of course, 
that the latter has previously been soaked some 
hours to remove superfluous salt ; nor should any 
salt be put into the stock-pot itself when required 
for this operation. 

But besides the bouillon of ^'^ pot-au-feu there is 
"Grand the grand bouillon also, a distinct and 

bouillon." elementary product of French cookery. 

This is a decoction, stronger than the preceding, of 
the flesh of beef and veal, together with a portion 



Bouillon and Consommd. 141 

of supplementary bone and sinew, all fresh and 
uncooked, in order to add gelatine ; and this is 
combined also with vegetables. Lastly, » q_q^. 
there is the consommd, which is a decoc- somme." 
tion of beef, veal, and fowl, the two latter partially 
roasted for the purpose of heightening flavour ; and 
it is made, not with water, but with bouillon — GoufiK 
orders the grand bouillon just described — and with a 
few more vegetables. This is, therefore, the highest 
form of soup from beef, veal, poultry, and vegetables 
which can be produced (see Appendix, "Consomme "). 

Now, as the mode of making pot-au-feu is an 
important initial step in the art of soup-making, I 
shall place in an appendix at the end of this volume, 
a carefully made epitome of the very complete in- 
structions given by Gouff^. The right management 
is with him a matter of the highest importance ; and, 
simple as the dish is, he devotes several pages to 
the task of illustrating the elementary principles of 
cookery which are involved in the process. 

It is not at all surprising that many persons should 
be somewhat bewildered by the almost soup nomen- 
endless variety of appellation under clature; 
which the single article of soup is presented at table. 
It has been estimated that the titles varieties 
which denote these numerous varieties endless, 
number altogether not less perhaps than five hundred. 
And proceeding on the principle on which these are 
produced, there appears to be no reason why even 
the present list should not be doubled in length. In 



142 Food and Feeding. 

reality, the number of species is very limited; but 
species very the slightest addition to a soup having 
limited, been held sufficient to confer upon it 

a distinctive name, the idea of complexity and 
number has been unnecessarily fostered. Regarded 
analytically, all soups may be considered as belonging 
to three chief classes — the clear ; the thick, or puries ; 
and a more substantial form, in which the soup 
approximates somewhat to that of a stew, containing 
solid matter in considerable quantity. In each of 
these classes there are four or five species, from 
which all varieties are produced by slight additions 
and combinations of flavour. 

First class, the clear soups, viz. — 

1. A clear decoction (weak, or "broth ;" strong, or 

consommi') of meat : of beef, veal, some- 
to wit ; . , . , . , ^ 

times mutton ; and of pork in the form 

of ham or bacon. 

2. A clear decoction of fowl. 

3. A clear decoction of game. 

4. A clear soup made from various kinds of turtle, 

but always garnished with portions of turtle 
itself. 

5. A clear decoction of vegetables only, as the 

basis of a soupe maigre. 

Any of these may be used as made at first hand ; 

but great variety may be obtained by 

varieties making some slight addition, such as 

with the well-known dried Italian pastes 

in numerous forms, also specially made paste {nouillei 



Clear Soups and PurSes. 143 

and quenelles) ; or with freshly made custard, cut 
into diamonds, circles, etc., in various 
colours ; cut fresh vegetables, in rounds, 
in squares, in long strips, fresh, or lightly fried before 
adding them ; with crusts of bread, with an tgg, etc. ; 
each single addition denoted by a distinctive appella- 
tion, which will suggest itself in each example named 
above, to any one who has the least acquaintance 
with cookery. 

Second class, the thick soups, or purees. — The 
consommi of beef, or of veal, beef, and Second 
fowl mixed, or of game, may be thickened << Pur'ees." 
by addition of a flesh, fowl, and game Animal. 
purie respectively ; white soups, commencing with a 
consommi Qi veal and poultry, thickened with 2. puree 
of the white meat of fowl, with a portion of cream 
or milk added ; and brown puries following, from 
consommi of beef and veal, and of game. 

The same consommi, or the weaker broth, furnish 
bases for vegetable puries in like manner, Vegetable 
either white or coloured. Many of these, P^i^ees. 
like the others, have their distinctive names ; e.g. 
purie of carrot as Crecy, of potatoes as Parmentier, 
of fresh green peas as St. Germain, of red haricots 
as Conde, of lentils as Conti, or adding vegetables 
prepared as for a julienne, it becomes Faubonne ; 
while a purie of Jerusalem artichokes, curiously 
enough, and by virtue of a bad pun, is called 
Palestine. The last named should, of course, have a 
basis of fowl or veal broth, and added milk or cream. 



144 Food and Feeding. 

And the same stock, blended with a well-prepared 
purh of pearl barley, will furnish a very agreeable 
crime d'orge. Many soups in ordinary use assume 
a pleasant change, if a small quantity of tapioca is 
incorporated by long and gentle simmering, until 
almost dissolved, from the fulness and softness thus 
communicated to the original. 

Thirdly, a class of more substantial soups, con- 
taining a considerable amount of solid matter ; 
examples of these may be named as follows : — 

Mock- turtle soup ; containing, large portions of the 
calf's head, garnished with balls of seasoning, the 
liquid portion being thick, not clear. 

Ox-tail ; containing a considerable amount of 
meat in a more or less clear broth or consommi. 

The well-known '" giblet soup " and the " cock-a- 
leekie" of North Britain are examples of poultry 
thus treated ; the latter, doubtless designed originally 
to present the patriarch of the poultry yard in an 
eatable form. Another Scotch soup, " hotch-potch," 
like an Italian '' minestre," or " minestrone," may con- 
tain almost a meal of fragrant combinations of flesh, 
vegetables, and herbs in variety. Another to be 
named here is a thick mulligatawny soup, which is, 
in fact, a diluted curry, of which, by the way, there 
is now a clear variety. 

An important group of the thick soups have their 

origin in a pur^e and decoction of fish, 

Fish purees. ^ . , . , ,, , „ ' 

of various kmds, as well as of so-called 

shell-fish, which of course are not fish at all, but 



Fish Soup and Turtle. 145 

animals of other and totally distinct species. The 

former have a basis of liquor obtained by stewing 

the heads, bones, fins, and other cuttings from inferior 

parts of the fish, garnished with fillets from the 

choicest parts, and also with oysters, mussels, etc. 

The latter kind, from "shell-fish," are oyster soups, 

besides purees of prawns, crayfish, etc.. 

Bisques, 
and known as bisques ; often very 

finished products of the culinary art. 

The thick turtle soup is also more or less 2,piirie, 

to begin with, to a certain extent, but „ . . 

^ ' , . , V Thick turtle, 

its distinctive character is derived from 

its garnish, consisting as it does of the choicest parts 

of the animal. 

The edible turtles belong to the class of reptiles, 
and there are varieties, large and small, all highly 
esteemed as food in various parts of the world. 

Real turtle, clear, is made either in part or wholly 
from the live animal ; a large proportion is prepared 
from the imported dried flesh ; in either case the 
stock is almost invariably made from veal and 
beef.* 

* A rather keen but amusing controversy took place in conse- 
quence of my having stated in a paper read at the Fisheries 
Exhibition in 1 883 that turtle soup when "a? its best" was 
composed of a stock made from the conger eel, the turtle 
furnishing the garnish and the name. The turtle-soup makers 
rushed into print, especially some well-known artists at the East 
End of London, who used language which was more remarkable 
for force than for elegance. Never was there a more striking 
illustration of the proverb, '' qui ^excuse s'accuse." No accusa- 
tion had been brought against any turtle-soup maker : I had 

K 



146 Food and Feeding. 

Finally, I must not omit some mention of that 
" Bouilla- delicious dish, bouillabaisse, eaten in per- 
baisse." fection at Marseilles, as among the most 

agreeable products of French cuisine in this direction. 
Thackeray's well-known rhymes do not exaggerate 
Thackeray's '^^^ good qualities, and enumerate its 
description. component elements almost with suffi- 
cient accuracy to direct the cook.* See chapter ix. 
on the subject of fish as food, for remarks on its 
selection and preparation for' receipts or fish soups 
and stew, including directions for preparing a Mar- 
sellaise bouillabaisse. 

Then there is an important distinction, referred 

„. . . to above, recognized chiefly on the 

Distinctions ' ^ ^ 

in soups for Continent, and related to the demands 
''fasting " 

of religious observance, between soups 

which have meat for their basis {potage gras), and 

those which have fish, or exclusively vegetable basis 

{potage maigre) ; into the latter class also, eggs are 

admitted. All these take rank of course among the 

merely expressed the opinion given above ; one which I still 
think is correct. Much less had I anywhere affirmed that the 
artists above alluded to had ever made turtle soup " at its best ! " 

' " This Bouillabaisse a noble dish is — 
A sort of soup, or broth, or brew, 
Or hotch-potch of all sorts of fishes 

That Greenwich never could outdo : 
Green herbs, red peppers, mussels, saffern, 

Soles, onions, garlic, roach and dace ; 
All these you eat at Jerrd's tavern 
In that one dish of Bouillabaisse." 

The Ballads. 



Vegetable Soups. 147 

classes named ; but they are referred to separately 
here in order to draw attention to a fact not generally 
recognized in this country, that tolerably good soups 
may be made without employing meat. 

Vegetable soups, both clear and thickened, may be 
made extremely palatable ; the former Vegetable 
being agreeable and wholesome, espe- soups, 
cially in the warm season when fresh vegetable 
growth is abundant, and full of juice and fragrance. 
And the latter, or thick soup, may be made nutritious 
also, as already shown, since they contain a consider- 
able quantity of barley, peas, beans, haricots, Indian 
corn, rice, etc. 

The following is a good receipt for a clear, purely 
vegetable stock : — 

Slice two carrots, two turnips, a head of celery, 
two onions ; put into a frying-pan with clear vege- 
a {^"^ sweet herbs and half a pound of *-*^'^ ®°"P- 
butter. Fry until well browned, then put them with 
three or four cloves, some salt and black pepper, 
into six pints of cold water in a saucepan ; bring to 
the boil and gently simmer for two or three hours, 
reducing to four pints, not less ; strain off into a 
vessel, letting it stand for use. When required, pour 
off the clear liquor, leaving the deposit, and you will 
have a fair vegetable stock. If it is to be used 
as a clear vegetable soup, heat, adding at the close 
two tablespoonfuls of "cornflour" previously mixed 
smooth in some of the liquor, and letting the whole 
boil ; if any scum arises remove it. The cornflour 



148 Food and Feeding. 

gives to the decoction an agreeable body. Or, five 
or six ounces of tapioca may be added at the outset, 
which will thicken without interfering with the trans- 
parency of the decoction. The soup may be garnished 
with vegetables freshly cooked for the purpose, in 
slices or other forms (see Goufif^'s receipt in the 
Appendix). 

To convert this into a meat consommi add after 
boiling, and just before serving, two full 
make a teaspoonfuls of the Liebig Company's 

meat soup. Extract of Meat. 

Another mode of giving body when a soup maigre 
A gelatine ^^ "°* required, is to make a decoction of 
l^°<*y- beef-bones without meat, which have 

been thoroughly broken and allowed to simmer 
gently at least six hours ; then cooled, and skimmed 
from fat. The result, which is a strong jelly, can 
be warmed, strained clear through flannel, and used 
instead of water with which to make the vegetable 
soup as above directed ; it adds substance and quality, 
but of animal matter in place of the cornflour employed 
for the preceding. 

Thickened vegetable soups may be made with 
Vegetable these stocks, or with a weak meat stock, 
puree. by rubbing in smooth, well-made purees 

of almost any vegetable matter. Those most com- 
monly used are from green peas, potato, spinach, 
carrot, turnip, artichoke, tomato, salsify, etc., or from 
dried vegetable products, as split peas, lentils, hari- 
cots, rice, arrowroot, semolina, etc. A potato piiit'e, 



Importance of Consommd. 149 

garnished with well-boiled leeks cut in sections, is 
a very palatable dish, and worthy of the esteem it 
has long enjoyed among our Dutch and Flemish 
neighbours. 

I may conclude this brief sketch of soups by 
observing that the ability to make a The title of 

good, fragrant, and clear consomm^, yet "cook" does 

^ . ° ^ not belong 

fine in colour with a certain softness and to one who 

. , r i_ 1 1 ii • - cannot make 

smoothness of body — and nothmg is a good 

easier, granted a moderate intelligence '^onso™™^. 
and the power of executing simple details with care 
— affords the key to almost all. The preparation of 
vegetables and the making of purhs are merely 
mechanical processes, easily attained. The judg- 
ment necessary to add and combine spices, essences, 
and other sources of flavour, for soups, sauces, and 
sweet entremets, is the one element which when 
possessed, in addition to the character of an attentive, 
dexterous, and painstaking workman, essential to 
success in every profession, constitutes a finished 
cook, and denotes his or her rank. And thus it is 
that the department of sauces especially gives oppor- 
tunity to develop and illustrate these qualities ; and 
here it is that the artist's skill is most clearly 
manifested. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

Sauces — The two chief foundation sauces, the brown or 
Espagnole, the white or VelouU — Their derivatives — 
English melted butter — Maitre d'Hotel — Ravigotte, etc. — 
Author's receipt for Bigarade sauce — Garnishes — Their 
variety and use in supplementing dishes — Cookery of vege- 
tables a- rAnglaise and d la Fraiiqaise — The tomato- 
Macaroni — Best modes for preparing for the table — Rice : 
various ways of preparing — The value of mincing in pre- 
paring flesh for food — Cold meats, the service of — ^Aspic 
jelly — Salads, in variety. 

I SHALL commence with a brief sketch of the system 

on which the numerous list of sauces, 
Sauces. 

which are offered for our service in 

cookery, is constructed. This will at all events give 
the tyro an idea of order and arrangement which 
presides over the practical management of the 
various sauces used in hot dishes of meat, game, 
and poultry. But the reader who desires to become 
thoroughly acquainted with the principles and 
practice of sauce-making, a subject too recondite 
to be dealt with at length here, should consult a first- 
rate French authority, as unquestionably the highest 
on this subject.* 
* I can scargelv recommend a better than the classical work 



Two Foundation Sauces. 151 

Sauces are numerous, although less so than are 

soups, for each must have a real and distinct quality, 

to which it owes its existence, and is required to 

impart to some article of food for which additional 

flavour is desired. It may be said that there are but 

two chief foundation sauces, or " mother- Only two 

sauces," as the French term them, a tion sauces: 

brown sauce termed Espagnole, and a ^'ofgS^j 

white one named Velout^, ox AUemande. "Veloute," 

or "AUe- 
Bechamel is reckoned as a " sauce mhre " mande." 

also by some, but it is merely a variety of Velouti 

with an addition of cream, making the sauce richer ; 

while Allemande differs chiefly by the addition of 

of Gouffi^ before referred to. But it may,'perhaps, be a little out 
of date in some details, although the leading principles must 
remain unchanged, and it is still an admirable guide to practice. 
For the purposes of the best English kitchens, " La Cuisine 
d'Aujourd'hui," by Urbain Dubois, E. Dentu, Paris, 1889, 
pp. 760, is a storehouse of trustworthy information, and it is 
well illustrated. Price 12 francs. But for a modern encyclo- 
paedic work on the subject, including la haute cuisine, the 
following, by Dubois and Bernard conjointly, is beyond question 
the most complete : — 

• ' Cuisine classique : Etudes raisonndes et demonstratives de 
I'Ecole Frangaise ; " deux grands volumes, ']^ planches gravees ; 
Dubois et Bernard. 14 Edition. E. Dentu, Paris. Prix 
40 francs. 

Since the last edition of this work appeared, a useful epitome 
of the subject has been made in a small and handy volume 
which should be in the hands of any mistress who desires to 
understand it, and is an excellent guide for the cook who has 
not been practically or systematically taught. It is entitled, " A 
Book of Sauces," by Mrs. Beaty PownaU. Chapman & Hall: 
1896. 



152 Food and Feeding. 

yplks of eggs and a little butter. These have 
been well called the Adam and Eve of cookery, 
whence most others have sprung.* For each of these 
there is a leason {liason), or thickening, in order to 
bind the elements together and give body to the 
sauce, known now more commonly as brown and 
White and white roux respectively. And here again 
brown roux. ojje marks the presence of that potent 
quality before referred to, as the taste of the fire. 
For Espagnole demands not only a beef-stock but a 
proportion of smoked ham to insure the flavour in 
question ; and its brown thickening is made by slowly 
heating flour until it is partially carbonized, and 
therefore browned by the fire being slowly heated, 
together with fine clarified butter, which becomes 
Flavour of nut-brown in the process, and both im- 
the fire. ^2xt a fine roasting flavour to the same. 

But the slightest burning of the butter is fatal, 
and is avoided only by making the process of heat- 
ing a slow one, and carefully stirring the mixture 
in an enamelled saucepan constantly over a small 
gas ring — at any rate, not over a hot cinder 
fire. 

* It appears to me quite unnecessary to recognize more than 
one brown "foundation sauce," viz. the Espagnole, in which 
the flavour of smoked ham is a necessary ingredient. A so- 
called " brown sauce " without it is only an ordinary glaze, a 
reduced consomm^ thickened with brown roux, and ranks only 
as'a secondary variety of the above. The adoption of but one 
brown and one white leading foundation sauce will be appre- 
ciated by all practical cooks. 



White and Brown Roux. 153 

A white roux is made in the same manner, but 

with the finest flour unbaked, only well 

W^hite roux. 
dried, and fresh butter merely clarified, 

mixed by stirring slowly over a still less degree of 

heat, and never permitting either the flour or butter 

to take colour. The brown and white roux will keep 

a few days in a cool place for daily use as required. 

This is all the space I can afford to this subject. 
It is an important elementary process, as the pot-au- 
feu is to soup making, and forms a key to the com- 
position of many sauces. 

English melted butter is regarded as the one sauce 

of our country, and if well and carefully „ ,. . 

' English 
made, is a very acceptable and whole- melted 

some vehicle for various additions, both 
savoury and sweet as required ; while the ingredients 
are always at hand, and it can be quickly pro- 
duced when required. 

Other sauces, which are distinct varieties of the 
Velouti, are, for example, Mattre d'Hdtel, ,, njaltre 
with the addition of a little finely d'Hdtel," etc. 
chopped parsley and a little lemon juice ; Ravigotte 
the same, with a little chervil and tarragon besides, 
etc. For Mayonnaise, Remoulade, and other forms of 
olive oil and &'g^ mixture as sauce, see pp. 174, 175. 

There is one sauce especially appropriate for wild 
duck, and scarcely less so to well-cured Bigarade 
ham, either hot or cold, for which I have sauce, 
never yet met with what appears to me to be an 
adequate receipt. I refer to that known as Bigarade ; 



154 Food and Feeding. 

I will, therefore, give my own here. The following 
Author's "^^y ^^ regarded as sufficient for ten or 

receipt. twelve persons to accompany three or 

four lightly roasted wild ducks, of which, of course, 
the breast slices are the only portions served. Put 
about one-third of a pint of well-reduced good brown 
sauce, which will form indeed a glaze, into a small 
saucepan for melting near the corner of the fire. 
Have prepared three Seville oranges, thus — remove 
the zest of two by scraping or with a bread-grater ; 
add it, together with their pulp and juice passed 
through a sieve so that no pith or pips are present, 
to the glaze, and slowly bring to the boiling point, 
stirring well, and set aside, keeping it hot. Add a 
pinch of Nepaul pepper, with a small teaspoonful of 
castor sugar. Then pare very thinly the peel of the 
third orange, so as to remove with it no pith, in 
separate portions, which are to be cut into fine long 
strips like those used for julienne soup, but very 
much smaller. Put them into cold water in a very 
small saucepan and let them boil, removing it to 
stand aside, keeping hot for a few minutes. When 
ready to serve, pour off the liquid from the strips and 
add them to the sauce in the first saucepan, stirring 
well at the corner of the fire, adding a small wine- 
glass of dry Curagoa at the very last, and send up, 
as well as the birds, very hot. If necessary, it may 
be passed through a tammy, but if properly made, 
it will not be so. It should be added that the 
Seville orange cannot be obtained in this country 



Bigarade Sauce. Garnitures. 155 

before the first week of February, and as wild duck 
is often quite in season six or eight weeks before 
that time, the best flavoured oranges obtainable must 
be substituted for the former, but for a true bigarade 
the Seville is essential. 

After sauces come garnitures. Respecting these 
a few hints may be given, for agreeable Garnitures 
and even important additions may be '"^^.riety. 
made to most small dishes of animal food under this 
title of "garnish." Whether it be a small filet, 
braised or roasted, or a portion thereof broiled ; a 
fricandeau, or the choice end of a neck of mutton 
made square and compact by shortening the bones ; 
or a small loin, or a dish of trimmed neck cutlets, or 
a choice portion of broiled rump-steak; a tender ox 
tongue, a couple of sweetbreads, poultry, pigeon, or 
what not — the garnish should be a matter of 
consideration. Whether the dish be carved on 
the family table, as it often may be when its head 
is interested in the cuisine, or whether it is handed 
in the presence of guests, the quality and the 
appearance of the dish greatly depend on the 
garnish. According to the meat may be added, with 
a view both to taste and appearance, some of the 
{oW.a^vi\g—purhs of sorrel, spinach, chicory, and 
other greens, of turnips, and of potatoes plain, in 
shapes or in croquettes ; cut carrots, peas, beans, 
endive, sprouts, and other green vegetables ; onions 
(see p. 122), small or Spanish, stewed; cucumbers, 
tomatoes, macaroni in all forms ; sometimes a few 



156 Food and Feeding. 

sultanas boiled, mushrooms, olives, truffles. In the 

same way chestnuts are admirable, whole, boiled, or 

roasted, and as a purie freely served, especially in 

winter, when vegetables are scarce ; serving also as 

farce for fowls and turkeys. While such vegetables 

as green peas, French and young broad 
Vegetables ° , j 1 • 

served as beans, celery and celeriac, asparagus, 

'entreme . geakale, cauliflower, spinach, artichokes, 

salsify, vegetable marrows, etc., are worth procuring 

in their best and freshest condition, to prepare with 

especial care as separate dishes.* 

And here, again, the distinctive principles, already 

French and referred to, of French and English cuisine, 

^eatraent of ^''^ illustrated in relation to the cooking 

vegetables ; of vegetables ; and again, let me add, 

not always to the disadvantage of our own system. 

* A hint about boiling asparagus is worthy of mention, since 
the proper method is rarely followed by English cooks. 

Asparagus of the stouter sort, always when of the "giant" 
variety, should be cut of exactly equal lengths, and boiled 
standing ends upward in a deep saucepan. Nearly two inches 
of the heads should be out of the water — the steam sufficing to 
cook them, as they form the tenderest part of the plant ; while 
the hard stalky part is rendered soft and succulent by the longer 
boiling which this plan permits. Instead of the orthodox 
twenty minutes allotted to average asparagus lying horizontally, 
in the English manner, which half cooks the stalk, and over- 
cooks the head, diminishing its flavour and consistence, a period 
of thirty to fifty minutes, on the plan recommended, will render 
fully a third more of the stalk delicious, while the head will be 
properly cooked by the steam alone. One reason why it is not 
uncommon to hear the best produce of the fields of Argenteuil 
insufficiently appreciated here, and our own asparagus preferred 
is, that the former is rarely sufficiently cooked at English tables. 



Cooking of Vegetables. 157 

I find it the more necessary to call attention to this 
subject, as much has of late been said, which may 
lead many to believe that French usage is invariably 
right, and English usage invariably wrong. Very 
far from the truth, I humbly submit, is such an 
allegation as this, even in regard of our treatment 
of vegetables. No doubt we are too often guilty of 
carelessness and inattention to the condition in which 
vegetables are presented, in the service of our tables, 
but our principle is in the main correct, and only 
wants to be pursued with intelligence. When vege- 
tables are really good, well grown, and fresh, no 
good judge desires that their natural qualities of 
flavour, odour, and consistence, or even colour, should 
be destroyed by the addition of other materials, and 
of foreign flavours. Let us take two, in illustration 
of these remarks, green peas and the tomato. 

Garden peas, petitspois, when young, quickly grown 
and, above all things, freshly gathered, 
have a delicious characteristic flavour of peas, for 
their own, are rather sweet, and almost 
crisp when eaten ; and they maintain these attributes 
unimpaired, if simply boiled in salt and water. Such 
should be eaten i I'Anglaise, the use of the term 
itself being a tacit admission on the part of the French 
chef, that the simple cooking advocated here, and 
practised in this country is, in this instance, justifiable. 
All that is produced under this name is a dish of 
peas, cooked as described, served with a pat of fresh 
butter, and some salt, accompanied by the capital 



158 Food and Feeding. 

little pepper-mill, which is natural to a French table, 
and almost unknown here.* A morsel of the butter 
is stirred into the hot peas, a little black pepper, 
full of fragrance, freshly ground over them, and a 
pinch of salt, according to taste, and the whole 
, stirred. The same process is equally 

verts," and applicable to French beans, and also to 
that excellent mixture of French beans 
and flageolets, so well-known as haricots panacMs, 
so rarely served in this country. All these vegetables, 
when in excellent condition, are doubtless served at 
their best d. I'Anglaise, not only in relation to the 
palate, but also in view of the average digestion. 

To return to our petits pais as the type. When 
To treat peas green peas are a little hard, old, and 
vounff^nd t°"gh, or a little coarse in flavour, and 
tender. without sweetness, then it is that the 

French cook treats them with advantage. For such 
peas as these, when no others are to be had — and it 
must be confessed that inferior peas are far too com- 
monly met with — by all means let them be served 
d, la Frangaise. This is stewing gently in a little 
water, a good proportion of butter, with sliced onion 
and salt, stirring in a little flour, and a small quantity 
of sugar. Some, exceptionally, add a little cream, 
and yolk of egg. Another excellent French method, 

* It was so when I first wrote, but has now for some time 
been growing in favour here, and may be seen at many tables 
and for sale in many shops. At the time referred to I could 
not have found a table pepper-mill in London, and obtained my 
own in Paris. 



Cooking of Vegetables. 159 

i la Paysanne, is to add first butter as before, salt 
and onion ; and then stew slowly in a fair quantity 
of stock, with lettuces, finely sliced, some sugar, and 
a shred or two of parsley, if desired. Almost any 
peas may be rendered tender and appetizing if thus 
treated. 

Again, haricots verts sautis au beurre, is a favourite 
mode of cooking them ; but no super- prenchbeans 
fluous butter should appear when they "sautes." 
are served ; the quantity allowed in which to toss 
them for a few minutes on a brisk fire, after boiling, 
should amount to no more, according to the rule, 
than a tenth part by weight of that of the vegetables 
themselves when dry.* 

But who does not know that it is common enough, 
both in town and province throughout France, to be 
supplied not only with French beans, but other vege- 
tables, saturated with butter, rendering them for most 
English stomachs, at all events, hazardous, and to 
some tastes repulsive. 

The natural inference from all this is, that cer- 
tain French methods are desirable, and their success 
is remarkable, when — as we have already seen in 

* Some persons who have not studied practical cookery may 
not quite understand the French term sauter, or the correspond- 
ing English term, " toss.'' It means, to fry Ughtly or partially 
in butter, using a shallow pan, and, moving the material to be 
fried, or, rather, " tossed," so as to avoid the production of a 
temperature high enough to brown the surface — a condition 
which is intended to be produced by frying proper, as before ex- 
plained (p. 125) to take place, by immersing the material in 
heated oil. 



i6o Food and Feeding. 

relation to both meats and vegetables — the materials 

are inferior ; but the English method is the simplest 

and best, when the materials are — as they always 

should, when practicable, be — the best of their kind. 

And now, briefly, for the tomato. In almost any 

condition, simple cookery alone is ad- 
The tomato. 

missible for it. Doubtless, if ripe and 

fresh, it is excellent when eaten raw ; but to have it 
at its very best, the tomato should be dipped, for 
thirty seconds at most, into boiling water. On re- 
moving it, the skin, which could previously be de- 
tached only with difficulty, peels off with the greatest 
ease. The juicy, fruity qualities are revealed by this 
process ; and it may be eaten alone or with any 
meat; and for a salad it should invariably be thus 
prepared. If served hot, only plain boiling, baking, 
or broiling will cook this delicious half-fruit, half- 
vegetable, so as least to alter or diminish its natural 
flavour ; although its deterioration has already com- 
Avoid over- menced, since each of these processes 
cooking. develops a degree of acidity which before 

cooking did not exist, and is neither agreeable nor 
quite wholesome. It is excellent if served cold by 
itself, when simply peeled as above described, with a 
little salt and pepper, and perhaps a few drops of oil, 
with cold meat, or with savoury rice, or indeed in 
many ways. But to serve a hot tomato, by stuffing 
it with onion, parsley, and shalot, with some odds 
and ends of meat or poultry minced {tomates farcies), 
is mischievous meddling carried to its highest pitch ! 



Macaroni as a Food. i6i 

Yet this is the form in which tomato is most frequently 
served at foreign tables. Certainly, Talleyrand's well- 
known caution, " Point de zHe," applies no less forcibly 
sometimes to professional cooks, than as a maxim for 
diplomatists. 

It is to be lamented that so little use is made in 
our country of the Italian pastes, especially of maca- 
roni in all its forms ; and that rice, largely used as 
it is, is not so well cooked, and therefore not so highly 
appreciated among the upper and middle classes as 
it deserves to be. 

The mention of macaroni conveys to nineteen out 

of twenty Englishmen, as it does also to 

, . , , ... ., , Macaroni, 

our cooks, the idea of an mdigestible 

mess, containing much toasted cheese and butter, 
well peppered and over-baked, which is sometimes 
• served at the end of dinner as a " savoury " to com- 
plete the repast. In this form it ought rarely if ever 
to appear. Macaroni is, in fact, an aliment containing 
much nutritious matter when made from selected 
growths of hard wheat containing more gluten than 
the average grain used for bread. Such Valuable 
was the original practice when it was ^°'''" °^ ^°°^' 
first produced, and doubtless still continues to be 
so for pastes of the best quality. The cheapest are 
probably made with ordinary wheat, and form there- 
fore a good staple diet, especially if treated according 
to the methods given below. Most people, especially 
in summer, will find it a good substitute for the 
tough fibres of meat, particularly at lunch or midday 

L 



1 62 Food and Feeding. 

meals, when their employments demand continuous 
attention during the whole of a loner 
lunch for afternoon. To dine or to eat a heavy 

"^^' meal in the middle of the day is, for 

busy men, a great mistake : one nevertheless which 
is extremely common, and often productive of dis- 
comfort, to say the least. Macaroni might, with 
advantage to the public, and especially to those who 
are closely occupied between breakfast and dinner, 
be prepared at the restaurants as a staple dish, in 
two or three forms, since, if properly cooked, it 
sustains the power without taxing too much the 
digestion, or rendering the individual heavy, sleepy, 
and incompetent afterwards. Two or three of the 
best and simplest forms of serving it are embodied 
in the following receipts, which are the result of 
several experiments by different methods : — 

Put four ounces of good macaroni (Genoa or 
Author's Naples), as little broken as possible, into 

receipt for a saucepan with three or four pints of 
macaroni . . '^ ^ ^ w. 

cooked in boiling water. Boil five minutes, not 
"macaroni longer. Then pour off all the water, 
aujus." ajj^ place the macaroni in a stewpan 

with a pint of good stock made from beef or veal, 
or both (or from a well-furnished stock-pot), adding 
a saltspoon of salt and half that quantity of pepper, 
and let it simmer at the corner of the fire until the 
macaroni is tender, not soft and flabby. The time 
necessarily varies, according to the kind and size of 
;he macaroni, e.^. fifty or sixty minutes for the best 



Au jus and a I'ltalienne. 163 

Genoese, from thirty-five to forty-five minutes for 
Neapolitan. Its condition, however, should be tested 
by trying a small piece. Most of the stock is 
absorbed by the macaroni by this time ; but that 
which remains, probably a fourth part of the original 
quantity, may be strengthened, if necessary, by half 
a teaspoonful of the genuine Liebig's Extract of 
Meat, and should be thickened by adding a little 
baked flour or brown roux (see p. 152). 

The contents of the saucepan should be served on 
a hot dish, or a shallow vegetable dish, or in a white 
metal bowl, in any case with a cover. It may be 
also appropriately and agreeably garnished sometimes 
with tomato sauce. The foregoing constitutes maca- 
roni aujus in the simplest form. 

For those who can easily digest cheese and butter, 

an ounce of grated Parmesan, and per- 

° ^ Another for 

haps half an ounce of good English "macaroni a 

cheese, may be added, gradually stirring 
well during the latter half of the process, towards the 
end of which a little pat of butter may be added, with 
a sprinkle of Parmesan over the dish when filled, 
before serving. The macaroni ought now to " spin " 
well, that is, delicate threads should extend from one 
portion to another when moved. Lastly, hot tomato 
sauce may be poured over it, or be supplied sepa- 
rately, since some prefer the macaroni without this 
addition. Serve on a hot dish provided with a cover. 
It is now a dish of macaroni a I'ltalienne. 
If there is only a weak stock, chiefly made from 



164 Food and Feeding. 

bones, etc., in the stock-pot, use it, but add a rather 

larger portion of the Liebig's Extract. In such case, 

a little flour of lentils, well boiled to thicken the 

stock with, would be a suitable addition. The 

Liebig's Extract should never be added until the 

end of the process, and merely be well stirred in 

immediately after removing from the fire to serve. 

If, instead of stock, milk is used, an agreeable 

change may be made ; and this form 
The same 
with milk constitutes macaroni au matgre, the fore- 

au maigre. going receipts being au gras. To prepare 

this, boil four ounces as before five minutes ; drain 

and place in a stewpan with a pint of milk, simmering 

as above directed until sufficiently tender. Serve 

hot. Any milk remaining unabsorbed by the 

macaroni may be thickened with baked flour (white) 

or with a white roux. Flavour with a little cinnamon 

or vanilla, or otherwise to taste, and sweeten with 

sugar or saccharin, if desired. For those who prefer 

a savoury dish, and can take cheese and butter, a 

tablespoonful of grated Parmesan, and a small pat 

of the latter, should be gradually added, stirring it 

in during the latter part of the simmering process, 

according to the directions just given for macaroni 

d ritalienne. 

Of rice, the modes of cooking are endless, and yet 

Cooking f'^w dishes are adopted here besides the 

of nee. well-known pudding with milk and sugar, 

with or without eggs ; the moulds of boiled rice, 

variously treated, to be eaten with fruit; and rice 



Cooking Rice. The Risotto. 165 

rarely well prepared, for service with a curry. There 
is also no doubt that the boiled fowl and vice, pouletau 
riz, usually regarded as a convalescent's dish, might 
be easily rendered sufficiently attractive to merit 
the attention of others. As examples of nutritious, 
and at the same time very palatable savoury dishes, 
I will offer two examples, which might well be 
familiar dishes, at all events, on our breakfast and 
luncheon tables, viz. the risotto d la Milanaise and 
the pilau of the East. Varieties of the latter are 
common among all the populations dwelling adjacent 
to the Mediterranean, from Spain to the Levant. 
A dish of boiled rice being in some sort the culinary 
analogue in the vegetable kingdom, of veal and 
poultry in the animal, furnishing an insipid but 
wholesome basis, is well fitted to be the vehicle for 
producing innumerable flavours and odours, and even 
colours at the table, saffron, for example, and fruit 
juices ; and is thus capable of furnishing various 
dishes, according to the treatment, and to the materials 
for addition, obtainable in different districts. As an 
example of this, I shall first describe the process 
of preparing that agreeable form, " red Receipt for 
rice," to serve as a vegetable with boiled "^^^ rice." 
fowl, veal, or a mince, etc. Having washed about 
four ounces of Patna rice, put it into a saucepan 
containing a quart of boiling water with a little salt ; 
stir with a wooden spoon, and in about ten to fifteen 
minutes ascertain if the rice has lost all hardness 
without being soft and the grains adhering. If so, 



1 66 Food and Feeding. 

empty the contents over a colander, and let all the 
water drain off; then return the rice to the hot 
saucepan, add a small pat of butter, about two or 
three tablespoonfuls of stock, and two of good 
Italian tomato sauce.* The saucepan is now to be 
put on a part of the hot plate, but not over the fire, 
and the contents should be merely kept stirring or 
" lifted " with the prongs of a silver fork for five 
minutes, so as to mix vvell and keep the rice grains 
separate, and prevent any portion being caught. 
Serve in a hot vegetable dish. Not only an excellent 
and appetizing garnish, it is also a delight to the eye. 
To make risotto a la Milanaise for two persons. — 
Risotto a la -^"^ *^^° ounces of fresh butter, with an 
Milanaise. onion chopped very fine, into a stewpan, 
and fry until the onion has a pale gold colour. Then 
add six ounces of well-washed Patna rice, with a 
very little powdered saffron, stirring it constantly for 
about two minutes with a wooden spoon, so that it 
does not stick to the stewpan ; after this two minutes' 
cooking, add about a pint of good stock very gradu- 
ally ; let it simmer gently, stirring very frequently, 
till the rice is just soft ; before it is quite finished, 
add an atom or two of grated nutmeg and an ounce 
or more, according to taste, of grated Parmesan 
cheese ; after this, cook, stirring well for two or three 
minutes ; then remove from the fire, set the stewpan 
on the hot plate, add a little more butter, cover for 

* Perelli Rocco, Greek Street, Soho, furnishes an excellent 
sauce in small tins. 



The Pilau-Rice for Curry. 167 

a few minutes, and serve. The quantity of stock or 

beef-tea can be varied according as the i-isotto is 

preferred thick or otherwise. 

For a Turkish pilau, well wash six ounces of East 

India rice, and boil in a pint of water a Turkish 

for five minutes at the most ; then throw P^'^"- 

it into a colander that it may thoroughly drain. 

Next place it in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, 

salt and pepper to taste, stirring well, and adding by 

degrees about half a pint of good fowl broth. After 

about fifteen or twenty minutes it should be properly 

done, turning out with the grains separate. It is to 

be served perfectly hot. The foregoing is a true 

pilau, but additions may be made of portions of the 

meat of the fowl, of thin slices of bacon, or grated 

beef or ham ; of a little curry powder ; of chutney ; 

of fried onions, mushrooms, etc. It can also be 

made with beef and veal broth and treated as 

above, but in none of these forms could be regarded 

as the true Oriental dish. 

After many trials, for the purpose of producing rice 

in its most perfect condition to accom- _, . ,. 
^ Receipt for 

pany a curry, that is, with every grain boiling rice 
separate, sufficiently cooked but not soft, 
and white as snow, I can recommend the following : 
Take six ounces of good Patna rice, sift, wash, and 
pick out all foreign seeds, etc. Throw it into a sauce- 
pan containing two quarts of boiling water with a 
small teaspoonful of salt and the juice of half a lemon, 
which makes it white. Stir with a wooden spoon, 



1 68 Food and Feeding, 

and in about ten or twelve minutes the rice should 
be sufficiently cooked. This may be ascertained by 
pressing a few grains, which should be still firm, but 
softened throughout, without a hard portion in the 
centre. If so, add a pint of cold water to check the 
boiling at once, and then drain all the water from 
the saucepan, leaving the rice therein only. Set it on 
the hot plate, covered, not by the lid, but by a napkin, 
so that the rice may dry, giving it a shake or a stir 
occasionally, when every grain will be separate. 
Serve on a hot dish with cover until it reaches the 
table.* 

Mincing. — There is an important mode of pre- 
paring flesh for food, especially for the purpose of 

* The above receipt is based on the instructions given in one 
of the best practical cook's guides I know, a work written by an 
accomplished officer of her Majesty's service in India, " Culinary 
Jottings : a Treatise in Thirty Chapters," etc., by Wyvem. 
Fifth Edition. Madras: Hi^inbotham & Co. 1885. A most 
interesting and suggestive work to the European, although 
designed for Anglo-Indians. In my opinion no culinary library, 
even of modest pretensions, is complete without it. 

The foregoing note, which has appeared in two or three 
previous editions, I purposely retain in this also, for Colonel 
Kenney-Herbert, the author, known at that date as " Wyvern," 
has returned to this country ; and still devoting his leisure to 
the improvement of culinary art, has written various interesting 
and useful small works, e.g. " Fifty Breakfasts," " Fifty 
Lunches," " Fifty Diimers," and " Fifty Suppers." But his chief 
and most complete volume, entitled " Common Sense Cookery 
for English Households," pp. 504, 1894 : E. Arnold, London, is 
admirably adapted for heads of families, as well as to cooks of 
the present day who take interest in their duties and desire to 
improve, 



Mincing, a Valuable Process. 169 

rendering it more easily digested, which may be 

briefly described here. I refer to the use 

of a good mincing machine for the 

purpose of producing very fine divisions of the 

muscular fibres. I do not so much refer to its 

employment for serving afresh the 

remains of food which have been already ordinary 

cooked, as for its preparation of fresh ' 

meat with a special object in view. For the former, 

in order to produce mince-meat, or , , 

also for a 
material for rissoles, etc., the process is, special 

of course, extremely useful. I refer ' 

rather to the value of this treatment of fresh meat, 
where sufficient mastication is difficult, owing to 
imperfect teeth or tender gums, or where for fresh 
habitual mastication is neglected, or ^1^^^^" 
when time cannot really be bestowed imperfect, 
on it. The human stomach being adapted almost 
solely for the digestion of flesh, and not at all for 
that of vegetable and farinaceous matters, which are 
chiefly digested in the first intestine beyond the 
stomach, it is of the highest importance that animal 
fibre, whether of butcher's meat, game, or poultry, 
should be minutely divided by a prolonged me- 
chanical action of the teeth before it is subjected to 
the chemical process, that is, digestion by the gastric 
juice which takes place in the stomach. Accordingly, 
if we are able to introduce into that organ, say, the 
flesh of rump-steak or mutton chop (which especially 
when fresh, as in hot weather, is by no means tender), 



lyo Food and Feeding. 

in a state of minute division, tlie process of digestion 

To facilitate i^ rendered far easier and the nutritious 

digestion. elements are assimilated much sooner 

than if they are imperfectly masticated. Thus also 

a considerable expenditure of nervous energy on 

the digestive process is saved for other purposes, and 

after the meal heaviness or undue fulness is rarely 

experienced. 

A pound of rump-steak, free from all fat and skin, 

^. . or an equal quantity of the best mutton 

Directions 

for using the steak, should suffice for a lunch for three 

persons. Treat it as follows : First, broil 
it over a clear fire, only about half as much as you 
would do for serving it as a broiled steak, not more, 
so that it will be quite red throughout, although not 
raw when cut. Slice the meat into small strips, 
removing as you do so any portion of fat or skin-like 
matter met with, which is not to be used. The 
mincer having been carefully rinsed with hot water, 
pass the strips through it three times consecutively, 
which ought to yield a soft, thoroughly divided mass. 
Put this into a Bain-marie, with about half or three- 
quarters of a pint of cold stock, free from fat, with 
a little salt and pepper, and mix thoroughly with a 
wooden spoon. Place the vessel on the corner of the 
fire, gradually bringing the water below to a boil, 
stirring all the time until the red tint has almost dis- 
appeared, which will probably be in about seven or. 
ten minutes. It should now be a perfectly smooth 
purh, and should be served quite hot. An excellent 



Directions for Mincing Meat, 1 7 1 

accompaniment is a little macaroni aujus (see p. 162), 
with some bread thoroughly toasted through, so as to 
be brittle, as all toast ought to be. Some cold toast 
spread with butter may follow, in order to furnish the 
fatty element and render the light meal complete. 

I can conceive no better means of supporting at 
midday, after a long morning's work, invaluable 
an exhausted system, when it is really meaTf'^'^b^ '- 
impossible to devote an hour to rest and "^ss men. 
the ordinary lunch. Midday rest, however, should 
be the invariable rule both before and after that 
meal, and then it would still be hard to find a better 
form of repast than this now indicated.* 

Passing rapidly on without naming the ordinary 

and well-known service of cold meats, 

r , , , , , Variations. 

fresh and preserved, poultry and game, 

open or under paste, in some form, to be found in 

profusion on table or sideboard, and in which this 

country is unrivalled, a hint or two relating to some 

lighter cold entries may be suggested. It is scarcely 

possible to treat these apart from the salad which, 

admirable by itself, also forms the Garnish for 

natural garnish for cold dishes. A simple '^°''^ dishes. 

aspic jelly, little more than the consommd of yesterday, 

first diluted, then flavoured with a little lemon peel 

and tarragon vinegar, furnishes another form of 

* The best form of mincer I have seen claims, I believe, to 
be an American .design, and is known as the " Enterprise." 
The agency is 86, Dale Street, Liverpool. It is inexpensive, 
and is sent post free anywhere. 



172 Food and Feeding. 

garnish, or a basis in which to present choice morsels 
in tempting forms, such as poultry livers, ox-palates, 
quenelles, fillets of game, chicken, wild fowl or fish, 
prawns, plover's eggs, etc., associated with a well- 
made salad. On this system an enterprising cook 
can furnish many changes of light but excellent 
nutritious dishes, for summer breakfasts and lunches, 
as well as for dinner. 

Aspic jelly, however, is now so popular, and 
deservedly so, that a special receipt, to 
which personal trials and consideration 
have been given under my own eye, as in all such 
offered in the text, is here presented as a ready way 
Author's of preparing it. For this purpose a 

receipt good beef extract is particularly useful 

and efficient. Hence it is quite unnecessary to make 
now, as formerly, a clear meat stock with much 
labour for this purpose ; especially when, as in hot 
weather, it will not keep well, and prolonged stove 
heat should not be employed unnecessarily. At very 
short notice a capital aspic can be prepared as 
follows : Slice a large carrot or turnip, a small head 
of celery, adding two cloves, pepper and salt, a bay 
leaf, a small bunch of sweet herbs ; all to be put 
into a saucepan with three pints of water, and 
allowed to simmer for two hours until reduced to 
two pints. Pour off through a strainer and let 
stand until cold. When required, add two ounces 
of gelatine in hot summer weather (one and a 
half ounce suffices when it is cool) to a pint of the 



Aspic Jelly. Salads. 173 

cold liquor, and let it stand two hours. Then heat 

the remaining pint to boiling point, and add to the 

pint which contains the gelatine, together with a thin 

paring of lemon peel, two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, 

the same of mild vinegar, and one or two teaspoonfuls 

of tarragon vinegar. Then pour in two or three 

whites of eggs, lightly beaten, and stir well to fine 

the liquor. Bring the whole just up to the boiling 

point ; then at once remove and keep on the hot 

plate close by, but not boiling, for three minutes only. 

Take it off and set it aside for three minutes longer, 

and then strain through flannel. It is now quite hot 

and clear ; stir in at once a large teaspoonful of the 

meat extract, and set aside to cool until wanted. 

■ On salad so much has been written, that one might 

suppose, as of many other culinary pro- 

ductions, that to make a good one was 

the result of some difficult and complicated process, 

instead of being simple and easy to a degree. The 

materials must be secured fresh, are not , ^ ,. 

Instructions 

to be too numerous and diverse, must for salad- 
be well washed with very little handling, 
and all water removed as far as possible. It may 
be made by the hostess, or by some member 
of the family, sufficiently interested to regard the 
process as an exercise of fine art, immediately before 
the meal, and be kept cool until wanted. Not many 
servants can be trusted to execute the How to dress 
simple details involved in cross-cutting * salad. 
the lettuce, endive, or what not, but two or three 



174 Food and Feeding. 

times in a roomy salad bowl ; mixing one salt- 
spoonful of salt and half that quantity of pepper in 
a tablespoon, which is to be filled three times con- 
secutively with the best fresh olive oil, stirring each 
briskly until the condiments have been thoroughly 
mixed, and at the same time distributed over the 
salad. This is next to be tossed thoroughly but 
lightly, until every portion glistens, scattering mean- 
time a little finely chopped fresh tarragon and chervil, 
with a few atoms of chives over the whole, so that 
sparkling green particles spot, as with a pattern, 
every portion of the leafy surface. Lastly, but only 
immediately before serving, one small tablespoonful 
of mild French or, better still, Italian red wine- 
vinegar is to be sprinkled over all, followed by another 
tossing of the salad.* The uncooked 
tomato, itself the prince of salads, may 
be sliced and similarly treated for separate service, 
or added to the former, equally for taste and appear- 
ance. A tomato, however, should never be cut — 
it may have been previously trimmed a little — until 
the moment it is wanted for eating, as the juice and 
pulp of a ripe fruit drain away, and leave only its 
cellular framework, if it has been divided an hour 
beforehand. The skin should be removed in the 
manner described at p. i6o. Cold boiled asparagus 
(^ojj served with a mayonnaise forms a dish 

asparagus. of its kind not to be surpassed. At 
present ranking, when the quality is fine, as an 
* A salad for five or six persons is supposed. 



Various Salads. Remoulade. 175 

expensive luxury, there is no reason why, with 
the improved methods of cultivating this delicious 
and wholesome vegetable, it should not be produced 
in great abundance, and for less than half its present 
price.* As to the manifold green stuffs which, 
changing with the season, may be presented as salad, 
their name is legion ; and their choice must be left 
to the eater's judgment, fancy, and digestion, all of 
which of course vary greatly. 

A favourite combination is that of uncooked celery 
cut in rings, with small slices or strips celery and 
of cooked beet. This should be always ''^^'■ 
served on small plates, one sufficing for each person's 
consumption. Kidney potatoes and p . . 
beet sliced, well sprinkled with parsley celeriac with 
and chervil, and a few atoms of tarragon, ' 

finely cut, is another ; slices of celeriac (boiled) may 
be added. An agreeable salad, striking to the eye, 
when cost is a matter of indifference, may be made 
with slices of kidney potato and fine black truffles 
of equal size; or of slices of celeriac and truffles 
mixed, immediately before serving, with a well- 
made remoulade sauce. Remoulade is a " Salad- 
mayonnaise, into which one or two hard- q^^^^^J 
boiled yolks of eggs and a little mustard moulade," 
have been smoothly incorporated by rubbing in the 
powdered yolk little by little during the making of 

' On asparagus, and also on salad culture, see " The Parks 
and Gardens of Paris," by W. Robinson, F.L.S., pp. 468 et seq. 
Second Edition. Macmillan. 



176 Food and Feeding. 

the sauce in the usual way. A Japanese vegetable, 

Stachys tuberosa, each small tuber cut 
"Stachys . ■' u -i j r c • . 

tuberosa," in two, raw or boiled for nve minutes, 

^ '^ mixed with small discs of boiled beet 

and slices of raw celery, is a novelty.* 

But there is another form of salad which is always 

available, and welcome, too, in any season of the 

year, viz. the salad of cold boiled table vegetables. 

Various -^^ excellent basis may be made .of 

other salads, cooked French beans, dressed as directed 

in the previous paragraph ; for this purpose those 

preserved in tins may be used. Greatly inferior as 

these are when served hot to the fresh haricot verts, 

they are very acceptable as salad in winter and early 

spring. The preserved green haricots {flageolets), 

similarly treated and added in equal proportion, with 

a garnish of sliced carrot, beet-root, or tomato, may 

be arranged not only as a most savoury 
Additions. , , , i , 

and wholesome, but even as an elegant 

dish. Cold boiled potatoes,^ carrots, turnips, broad 

* The author is credited with having introduced the above- 
named vegetable into this country from Japan (Gardener's 
Chronicle, Jan. 7, 1888), and believes he was the first to grow it 
here, from some tubers which were sent him. It is very easy to 
cultivate, very hardy, is not injured by frost, and, once planted, 
maintains its place like a Jerusalem artichoke. As a vegetable 
for the table, it should be boiled from fifteen to twenty minutes 
in salt and water, and eaten with a simple white sauce, a la 
poulette, for example. Now, 1898, seen in the shops as 
" Japanese Artichokes.'' 

t The best variety of potato for the purpose is that known as 
Vitelottej but in any case a kidney potato should be employed, 
if the variety named is not obtainable. 



Varieties of Salad. 177 

beans, peas, cauliflower, and other greens, may all 
be employed thus : combined and garnished accord- 
ing to the maker's taste, which there is abundant 
opportunity for displaying. Salads also may be 
varied and made more substantial by the addition 
of small fillets of sole or trout, or the flavour may 
be heightened, if desired, by morsels of haddock, 
sardine, etc. Well known and appreciated as the 
Salade de Ugumes * always is at a Paris restaurant, 
most persons here would prefer the vegetables simply 
sliced, so as to preserve some of their natural form 
and texture, rather than cut into innumerable small 
cubes, as usually presented. In all cases, such salad 
should be kept very cool, and be dressed immediately 
before serving in warm weather. 

* Salad of Cooked Vegetables. 

The French salad of cold cooked vegetables, Salade de 
Ugumes, is made as follows : — 

Take 4 ozs. of carrots cut in squares of about a quarter of an 
inch ; 3 ozs. of turnips cut in the same way ; 4 ozs. of small 
green asparagus cut in pieces ; 4 ozs. of peas ; 4 ozs. of French 
beans cut in squares like the turnips and carrots. Boil each of 
these vegetables separately in about a quart of water, with a 
teaspoonful of salt ; when cooked strain them on a cloth ; let 
them cool, and then place the French beans at the bottom of a 
salad bowl. Arrange the other vegetables in little heaps around, 
first the carrots, then the peas, then the turnips, then the 
asparagus, so as to alternate the colours, and so on again. The 
rest of the peas and asparagus may be placed in the centre, and 
sprinkled with a spoonful of chopped ravigote (fresh tarragon, 
chervil, parsley, and chives). Serve with oil and vinegar apart. 



M 



CHAPTER IX. 

Fish, and its value as food — The various constituents of flesh, 
of wheaten bread, and of fish compared — Analytic table, 
showing the same — Fish is desirable food for many persons 
— Ought to be less costly than it is — Varieties of fish, and 
their distinctive characters as food — Some contain large 
proportion of fat — The conger and the sturgeon — Prepara- 
tion of fish for the table — Value of head, bones, and fins 
for sauce making — Fish sauces — Salmon in perfection — 
Crimping of ditto — Mode of cooking it — Baking of fish — 
Roasting and broiling — Boiling and steaming — Fish soups 
and stews, excellent — Receipts — Bouillabaisse — A working 
man's stew. 

Before dealing practically with the cookery of fish, 
it is desirable to compare its value as a nutritive 
material with that which is supplied by other im- 
portant types of food. 

First, let us take as a starting-point a fact relating 
Amount of to the Structure of the human body, 
soHdsi^n *^^ adequate nourishment of which is 

human body, the chief aim to be accomplished by the 
digestion of the varied matters which we eat and 
drink. Many persons are surprised to learn that 
from two-thirds to three-quarters of the body, judging 
by weight, consist of water ; and this proportion is 



Food Value of Fish. 179 

the same, or nearly so, in all the land animals which 
are consumed by man for his own support. 

Thus, in every hundred pounds' weight of healthy 
flesh, not artificially fattened, whether and in 
beef, mutton, or poultry, and from ^"^t''a|j'| 
which the bone has been removed, about poultry, 
seventy-five to seventy-eight pounds of water are 
present, and are separated as such from the solid 
matter of the meat in the process of cooking and 
digestion. Twenty-five pounds, or a little less, that 
■ is to say, not quite a fourth of the whole, alone are 
solid, and alone contain nutritive material. Speaking 
roughly, these twenty-five pounds are constituted as 
follows : — 

About sixteen or seventeen pounds consist of the 

essential elements of the flesh or muscle, _ ..^ 

Solids 

and of the solid part of the blood, which composed of 

«•,.,. i ,. •«. albuminoids, 

afford the important nitrogenous con- 
stituents of food, the "proteids," or "flesh-formers," 
but not including another nitrogenous compound 
known as " gelatine," which forms the principle of a 
less important group (see p. 22), 

Of this gelatine, with some allied compounds, 

about one to two pounds are present ; . . 

, , , . 1 gelatine, 

but although nitrogenous compounds, 

they are distinct from the preceding class of flesh- 
formers, and possess less nutritive value as food. 

Of fatty matters, about two to four 

fat. 
pounds may be reckoned. 

The remainder consists of what are known as 



i8o Food and Feeding. 

" extractives," and of various saline and even metallic 

Extractives matters, all of which are essential parts 

and salts. of the animal body. 

It is necessary to observe that when meat is 

■i.t. unduly fattened, as very often happens, 
Meats with 
superfluous the above proportions are greatly altered. 

When the meat is fat pork, for example, 
reared for bacon making, etc., or beef which is fed 
in order to secure a prize for size and weight, the 
products are very different, containing largely fat, 
with less albumen and fibrin, and much less water ; 
and the pig owes his existence in great measure to 
the facility with which he produces fat meat for 
human food, such fat being of special value to use in 
combination with other foods, the potato, for example, 
which contain almost none of it 

We will next examine another great food staple, a 

typical example from the vegetable 
solids in kingdom, because familiar to all and 

extensively used, viz. fresh wheaten 
bread. In one hundred parts of this, about thirty- 
five to forty are water, fifty are starch, about eight 
consist of the nitrogenous principle corresponding to 
the proteids or flesh-forming elements in flesh, and 
there is but a fraction of fatty matter, the remainder 
being salts, etc. See p. 44 for the exact analysis. 

Now let us compare with these the constituent 
elements of fish. There is a closer resemblance, at 
first sight, perhaps, than many would expect to find. 
Notwithstanding that the fish is an inhabitant of 



Food Elements in Fish. i8i 

water, and cannot live out of it, the proportion of that 
element in the animal's structure exceeds only by 
a small amount the proportion which is present in 
land animals. In other words, the solid constituents 
of fish as a class, and there are important exceptions 
here and there, are but little leiss in weight than those 
of land animals already described. 

In one hundred pounds of fish without bone, 
from seventy-five to eighty-five are 
water, or rather more than three- solids in 
quarters of the whole ; leaving, say, 
about twenty pounds of solids as a mean estimate. 
Of these, about twelve to eighteen pounds are nitro- 
genous compounds. The most important, or flesh- 
forming principle, is less in quantity than in meat, and 
there is a rather larger proportion of gelatine. The 
proportion of fat varies greatly. The saline matters 
are pretty constant, and moderate in quantity. 

The comparison can be more easily made by means 
of the following table : — 

Analysis in General Terms of the Composition of 
THE Flesh of a Healthy Land Animal not Arti- 
ficially Fattened, and Omitting the Bones. 
In 100 parts. .^.^^^ ^^ 

About . . 75 to 78 are water. compositions 

Leaving . . 22 „ 25 of solids. already 

^.. ... described. 

Of these solids — 

rare proteids or. 

About . . i6ori7< flesh - forming I Nitrogenous 
' material . . l compounds. 
„ . . I to 2 „ gelatine . ■ ' 

„ . . 2 „ 4 „ fat- 
Remainder — " Extractives " and salts. 



1 82 Food and Feeding. 

Analysis of Wheaten Bread. 

In loo parts. 

About . . 35 to 40 are water. 

„ . . 50 „ carbo-hydrates, starch. 

„ . . 8 „ proteids. 

Remainder — A trace of fat with salts. 

Analysis of White Fish without Bone (Soles, Whiting, 
turbot, etc.)- 

About . . 75 to 85 are water. 
„ . . 20 „ solids. 

Of these solids — 

iare partly proteids, \ 
with a rather! Nitrogenous 
large proportion I compounds, 
of gelatine. .' 
Remainder — A little fat with salts. 

In some fish, where the fat is large in quantity (herring, 
mackerel, salmon, etc.), the water is correspondingly diminished. 

It should be stated that this estimate has been 
based solely on the leading and most important facts 
afforded by a chemical analysis, without reference to 
other considerations of minor importance referred to 
below.* 

* It is well known that there are some restorative qualities 
contained in animal flesh, which, although not at present fiilly 
appreciated by chemical analysis, have a value of no mean 
order, demonstrated chiefly by empirical observation. The 
invigorating effect of a small quantity of beef-tea, in a person 
suffering from inanition, may be cited in illustration ; the solid 
matter resulting from its evaporation being insignificant in 
quantity when compared with the support afforded. Now, the 
product obtained by dealing with fish, in the same maimer 
as we treat beef in order to obtain " beef-tea," is greatly inferior 



Fish Compared with Flesh. 183 

We may now arrive at an approximative estimate 
of the place which fish occupies as Value of fish 
nutrient material among the other pro- ^jth'uM.r^'* 
ducts which the animal kingdom offer of meat, 
to men. Fish is inferior to flesh, not in the quality, 
but in the quantity of certain constituents, viz. the 
proteids, or flesh-formers, of which it contains fully 
a third less than ordinary meat. It contains more 
gelatine, which, although a nitrogenous product, is 
much inferior to " albumen," and can only partially 

in this restorative quality, although the solids present are laiger 
in quantity in "fish-tea" than in that of meat, being chiefly 
gelatine. 

I have had the following experiments performed in the most 
accurate manner, which will show in part the nature of the 
chemical difference : — 

One pound of rump-steak, one pound of turbot, each without 
skin and bone, the former freed from fat, were thus separately 
treated. The flesh was passed twice through a mincing-machine, 
and sufficient cold water to cover (one pint) was added. After 
standing one hour, the mass was heated to boiling point, and 
allowed to simmer ten minutes, then strained through calico, 
and the contents of the strainer washed with water : a little 
floating fat was removed (in the case of the beef). Each of 
the liquids was evaporated on a water bath, to the consistence 
of a soft extract. 

Beef-product. 

Weight of extract, 276 grains or 3-94 per cent. 
Of this product, 5 per cent, was gelatine. 

Fish-product. 

Weight of extract, 396 grains or 5-6 per cent. 
Of this product the gelatine amounted to 2r8 per cent. 



184 Food and Feeding. 

replace a portion of this latter in the animal economy, 

while the " extractives " are less valuable than the 

extractives of meat. As a rule, fat is almost absent ; 

in certain varieties it is abundant. Fish is an 

aliment well adapted for persons whose 
Excellent , . , , , . . , , , , 

food for physical labour is not considerable ; but 

many. ^j^^ deficient elements can be easily sup- 

plied from other sources, as we shall see hereafter. 
The popular estimate of the value of fish as an 
article of nutritious diet rates it, I think, below its 
value ; and it deserves to be more largely consumed 
than it is. At the same time it must be admitted 
that the high price which the finest sorts obtain 
make them costly forms of food, so that they must, 
by a large proportion of the community, be regarded 
as articles of luxury for occasional and not for fre- 
quent use. 

I may further remark that the list of fish in 
general demand by the public is a re- 
varieties stricted one. The force of habit, together 
' with the entire absence of interest or 
curiosity on the part of our countrymen in relation 
to diet, has led to a conventional usage, limiting 
greatly and disadvantageously the variety of fish 
which would otherwise arrive at the market. Sole, 
whiting, haddock, herring, mackerel, cod, salmon, 
turbot, brill, trout, smelt, and red mullet, form a 
group to which a large proportion of British house- 
holds in purchasing fresh fish as a rule strictly limit 
their orders. Again, at almost every hotel, coffee- 



Qualities of Bish Compared. 185 

room, or public restaurant here, and whatever the 

hour of day, it is rare indeed if the waiter summoned 

to an applicant demanding fish does not 

,..,,,.,, due to habit, 
first suggest the mevitable fried sole, 

whatever else he may have to offer ; and it is generally 
accepted as probably the safest order to give, and the 
most likely to be promptly executed No desire for 
variety in material or in cookery is manifested, for if 
the host suggested something lesg familiarly known, a 
troublesome doubt as to his motive would probably 
be aroused in the mind of the guest. 

Relative to the list of fish just given, it may be 
remarked that the whiting, the smelt, The easiest 
and the sole are the most delicate in ^^ molt°" 
flavour, and the easiest of digestion ; deHcate ; 
fitting them admirably to the invalid commencing 
after illness to make a trial of solid food ; the two 
former being little less nutritious than the sole, which 
is, moreover, susceptible of very varied treatment in 
high-class cooking for the production of elegant 
entries. The turbot, rightly esteemed, the most 
is stronger food, and agrees well with substantial, 
most persons. The cod, for some, is not quite so readily 
taken ; and is not only more palatable, but is some- 
times more easily assimilated when " crimped." The 
same may be said of the salmon, a leading character- 
istic of which is the presence of fat. This element 
in fish is more apt to disagree with the stomach than 
fat from some other sources ; and on this account it 
is that many either avoid, or eat sparingly of salmon. 



1 86 Food and Feeding. 

As the fat is chiefly found in the underside of the 
fish, a slice from the back only should 
be taken by such persons ; but it may be 
taken as generally true that in the freshly killed fish 
the fat is more wholesome than on the second or 
third day after leaving the water, when it becomes 
oily and acquires a slight characteristic taste and 
odour. 

The mackerel is another oily fish, and it disagrees 
with some persons accordingly ; so is the red mullet, 
but the oil is chiefly in the liver, and gives the fish 
its peculiar flavour and value. The herring tribe 
abound in oil, as we shall see hereafter. 

Another list of fish which well deserves attention 
is headed by the dory, a fish of the second rank, with 
a peculiar firm, short, flakey, and very white flesh. 
Fish less and not perhaps sufficiently appreciated. 

excelUnt'**"* "^^^ P^^''^^' ^^ ^^^*^ (usually crimped), 
food. lemon-sole, grey mullet, haddock, fresh 

herring, and the flounder follow, all excellent food, 
and wanting only proper treatment in the kitchen to 
make them very palatable ; while in nutritive qualities 
some of them rank as high as the sole and whiting. 
Then the herring-tribe, viz. the pilchard, and smaller 
varieties of the family, by reason of their abundance, 
the facility with which they are preserved, and 
of the large proportion of fat which they contain, 
furnish a supply of useful food for the working 
man. 
But besides all these there are fish, which may be 



Fish rarely seen, but Good. 187 

placed if not in the first, yet certainly in the second 
rank, many of which are practically pishofthe 
unknown to ninety-nirie out of every second class, 
hundred London housekeepers. First may be named 
the wolf-fish, or cat-fish, which, although unlike in 
appearance to the usual occupants of a fishmonger's 
shop, is a white fish of excellent quality, jjut excellent 
It lives almost entirely on Crustacea, a in quality, 
circumstance, as Yarrell long ago pointed out, always 
associated with excellence in the fish so fed. The 
superiority of the cod caught at the Dogger Bank is 
said to be partly due to the same cause, as their food 
at this spot is largely crustacean. The halibut, from 
the North Sea, closely related to the turbot, is good 
and substantial food, and when large, as it often is, 
is also very cheap. The sea-bream, not 
unlike a large fresh-water perch, and the sufficiently 
basse, which has been sometimes styled 
a white salmon, are both useful varieties which have 
never received the attention they deserve, and which 
may be presented simply yet effectively at table. 
The gurnard is much better known, and an excellent 
dish may be made with it. Among cheap fish, which 
might be obtained in any quantity and at a small 
price, are the ling and hake, related closely to 
the cod, but chiefly used at present as salted fish 
and exported ; the thornback, of the same family as 
the skate, and equal in quality ; the pollack, a sub- 
stantial whiting, and the coal-fish, of the same family, 
but second in order of quality, are both good when 



1 88 Food and Feeding. 

in season ; a proviso which, it is to be remembered, 

applies equally to every variety. 

I shall but enumerate the conger — excellent for 

^ , soup and stew making ; the whole tribe 

Congers and '^ ° 

the eel of eels with their abounding fatty con- 

^' stituents, larger even than those of the 

herring family ; and the sturgeon with a fibre ap- 
proaching in quality nearer to that of meat than any 
Fresh-water Other fish ; besides all the fresh-water 
''^*'- fish, such as pike, tench, perch, etc., of 

which the supply is, by comparison with sea fish, 
limited ; following on which there is still a large 
number of minor fish which it would be tedious to 
particularize. 

The fish for the day's consumption having been 

„ ^. selected, a remark or two may be made 

Preparation ' 

of fish for on its preparation for the table. This 

commences in the hands of the fish- 
monger, as soon as it has become the property of 
the purchaser. Before entering into his possession, 
<■ ri • " *^^ ^^^ ^^^ *° undergo the process tech- 
by the fish- nically known as " cleaning." This 
monger. differs considerably according to the fish 

to be dealt with, but in all cases it involves the 
loss of what is often a valuable portion of nutritive 
matter. The gills, liver, intestines, etc., are first 
removed, often some skin, then portions of the fins, 
sometimes the head also. The best of these are 
known as "cuttings," and are sold at a low price 
to the poor, at the close of the day, many of 



Every Part of Fish Useful. 189 

whom thoroughly appreciate their value and profit 

thereby. 

To illustrate the result of this process for the 

purchaser, let us see what happens in 

one instance, as an example, perhaps a tion of what 

somewhat extreme one, but nevertheless 

occurring many times daily in every fishmonger's 

shop. A pair of soles is bought and ordered to be 

sent home in fillets ; eight fillets accordingly arrive. 

The soles were first skinned, the internal parts taken 

out, after which a long fillet, consisting of all the 

flesh on either side of the central bone, both front 

and back, was removed, making four from each fish. 

The whole skeleton, with the head, fins, 

' ' A sole 

and tail, forming a single entire piece, " cleaned " is 

,, ... ,. ■ it. 1 -NT ^'^^ wasted, 

remams as " cuttmgs m the shop. Now 

this piece will be found just equal to the fillets in 

weight, constituting in fact one-half of the fish ; and 

it will make excellent stock for fish-soup, a form of 

food greatly neglected in this country. For in 

utilizing fish, as far as possible, and in circumstances 

where a strict economy must be regarded, the soft 

parts of almost any fish may be cooked apart, so that 

the skeleton, head, and fins may be utilized for a 

fish-stock, or to make the foundation of the sauce 

intended to accompany the fish when served. It 

may be unnecessary to say that these parts are 

useless for that purpose when already cooked, as by 

boiling, frying, etc. 

As a general observation, it may be said that in 



rgo Food and Feeding. 

preparing fish for the table by the cook, sufficient 
The cook's trouble is rarely taken to remove some 
duty- portion of the bones ; this can be advan- 

tageously done by a clever hand, without disfiguring 
or injuring the fish. Sauces should be 
' appropriately served ; for example, the 

fat sauces, as hollandaise, and other forms of melted 
butter, are an appropriate complement of hot boiled 
fish, while mayonnaise is similarly related to cold. 
These and their variations, which are numerous, may 
, , . . also accompany both broiled and fried 

and broiled fish ; but the latter are often more whole- 
some and agreeable when served with 
only a squeeze of lemon juice, and a few grains of 
the zest, if approved, when a fresh green lemon is 
not to be had — and it rarely can be here. But the 
juice of the mushroom is preferred, in the form of 
catchup, and no doubt justly, by some, for the grill. 
Endless variations and additions may be made ac- 
cording to taste on these principles. But there is 
another no less important principle, already referred 
Fish should to, viz. that the fish itself often furnishes 
fts'own"'"^^ a sauce from its own juices, better and 
sauce. more appropriate than some of the com- 

plicated and not very digestible mixtures prepared 
by the cook. Thus "melted butter" — which is re- 
garded as essentially an English sauce — when in- 
tended to accompany fish, should not be, as it almost 
invariably is, a carelessly made compound of butter, 
flour, and water ; but in place of the last-named 



Fish Sauces and Garnish. 191 

ingredient there should be a concentrated liquor 
made from the trimmings of the fish shell-fish as 
itself, with the addition of a few drops garnish, 
of lemon juice, and strengthened, if necessary, from 
other sources, as from shell-fish of some kind. Thus 
an everyday sauce of wholesome and 
agreeable quality is easily made ; and 
this principle finds its highest illustration in that 
admirable dish, the sole, with sauce au vin blanc of 
the French, or, as associated with shell-fish, in the 
sole d la normande* This is well served in Paris, of 
course, but it can be found in perfection on the 
coast of France, especially in the south, due in part 
probably to the abundant garnish of shell-fish, which 
are found in finer condition and fresher there, while 

* A leading review, in a friendly notice of the above when 
it first appeared, spoke of a "mistake" made by me in 
" imagining a sole en matelote normande to be a simpler dish 
than it really is.'' I certainly intended the sentence in which it 
is named, and which is reprinted above without change, to 
signify my high respect for this finished dish, and if I have not 
made this clear, I hereby desire to do so. It was named to show 
that the principle of employing the juices of fish, and especially 
of sheU-fish, as a sauce, finds its highest expression in the sole 
d. la normande. Turning to my copy of Jules GoufK's classical 
work, pp. 621-22 of the original edition, Paris, 1867, 1 see that he 
remarks specially thereupon, " La recette que j'indique n'a pour 
base comme on a pu constater, que I'essence de poisson," pre- 
cisely warranting what I had stated. It is understood, of 
course, that these juices are combined with a good veloutd to 
make the sauce, and that it may be garnished further to any 
extent, according to the luxury demanded by the guest, or for 
the entertainment. 



192 Food and Feeding. 

the sole bears transit and keeps well, for it does not 
inhabit the southern waters. 

Some fish furnish their own sauce in a still simpler 
manner, of which an illustration no less striking is 
at hand in the easiest, but perhaps best mode of 
cooking a red mullet, viz. baking it, and securing the 
gravy of delicious flavour, which issues abundantly 
from the fish, chiefly from the liver, as its only sauce. 

Paris suffers in the matter of fish by distance from 

„ . , the seaboard. London has a far fresher 

Pans far 

from sea- supply. No Frenchman knows what 

salmon is until he tastes, sometimes 

with much astonishment, a Severn or Christchurch 

fish, taken from the water in the morning, crimped 

on arrival in London in the afternoon, such as our 

leading fishmongers can supply during all the spring 

and summer in time for dinner. It is one of the 

few things which we are able to offer our neighbours 

T, „ r .. without fear of rivalry. A Parisian 
Really fresh _ ^ 

salmon not cannot obtain a salmon until the very 

Uiere, delicate oil of the fish, by reason of 

for reasons the lapse of time, say sixteen to twenty- 
crivcn 

four hours after having been killed, 

has acquired a certain flavour, which is in fact the 

result of commencing decomposition. That flavour 

is for him, and for all those who cannot obtain a 

salmon freshly killed, the natural and inherent flavour 

of the fish. Such persons are surprised to find that 

this distinctive characteristic is wholly absent in the 

fresh fish. The fine nutty flavour of the latter, and 



Cooking of Crimped Salmon. 193 

the crisp brittle quality of the flakes which the flesh 
offers after crimping, are wholly unknown wherever 
the salmon has to be carried by a transit exceeding 
in length a duration of twenty-four hours. 

Perhaps I ought to add, lest a doubt should exist 
in the mind of any one, that crimping Crimping of 
thus done, that is, eight hours after re- fifa™^"no 
moval from the water, inflicts no pain P^'"- 
whatever on the fish ; were it otherwise I would not 
sanction it for any consideration whatever. To cook 
crimped salmon in perfection, a slice should be 
plunged into an ample saucepan of boiling salted 
water, and allowed to boil six or seven minutes only. 
The quantity of water in the fish-kettle should of 
course be sufficient in relation to the salmon put 
therein, not to cease boiling in consequence ; and on 
removing the slices when the time is up, they should 
not be exposed more than is necessary even to the 
action of the steam arising from the kettle. This 
may appear almost an unnecessary refinement : I can 
vouch for the fact that exposure to the current of 
steam for a few seconds lessens materially the crisp- 
ness of the crimped fish. 

Closely related to the baking of fish is another 
mode of cooking it, which is applicable Roasting 
to nearly every variety, and which has '^^^^'^ 
the advantage of retaining all the nutritive material, 
while the juices and the characteristic flavour are 
preserved in a manner not attained by any other 
process. It is rarely practised, because any other 



194 Food and Feeding. 

than those conventional methods which have been 
universally employed in cookery are slowly adopted 
by the public, until attention has been thoroughly 
before the aroused on the subject. Nevertheless, 
'"'■^i the method I am about to advocate is 

widely applicable, and well deserves at least to rank 
among the other and better known modes of pre- 
paring fish. It consists in placing the fish, after the 
usual cleaning, entire, if of moderate size, say from 
a sole to a small turbot or dory, in a block tin, 
aluminium, or pure nickel dish, adapted to the 
form and size of the fish, but a little deeper than the 
juices not to thickness of it, so as to retain all the 
evaporate, juices, which by exposure to the heaf 
will flow out. First, however, the surface of the fish 
is to be lightly spread with butter, and a morsel 
or two added round it ; the whole is then to be 

placed in a Dutch or American oven, 
serving for 

basting and m front of a clear fire.* The advan- 
for sauce. ^^^^^ ^^ ^.j^j^ j^ethod are, that the fish 

is cooked entirely in its own juices, which are 
Nutriment abundant, and form the best sauce, 
not wasted; ^^^ ^.jj^j- these juices which contain part 
of the nutriment and much of the characteristic 

* Mr. W. Burton, some time ago of Oxford Street, made for 
me an oven and dishes expressly for the purpose of cooking fish 
before the fire. The oven is a modification of that known as the 
" American," being rather deeper, from before backwards, and 
much shallower, from above downwards, on account of the flat 
form of fish not occupying the space which is required by joints 
of meat. 



Pish Baked and Roasted. 195 

flavour are saved and utilized ; lastly, the direct 
action of the fire browning the surface of the fish, 
gives that appetizing flavour which is flavour 
the especial charm of the "roast" and retained, 
the "grill," and which has been frequently referred 
to in this volume as "tasting of the fire." In fact, 
the proper term for denoting the method described 
is that of " roasting," for the fish is literally roasted 
before the fire, and basted in its own gravy; and 
with the same advantage in result as that which 
roasted meat possesses by universal consent over 
that which is baked in an oven. It is Applicability 
necessary to guard against over-roasting "^ manv^^ 
so as to dry the fish and evaporate the kinds, 
gravy ; and if through carelessness this condition has 
been reached, the fish should be moistened by the 
addition of a little light stock before serving ; and 
this is always done on the dish in which the cook- 
ing has taken place. The method is susceptible of 
innumerable variations to accommodate diflferent 
tastes. Portions of fish prepared as fillets may be 
treated as well as entire fish ; garnishes of all kinds, 
as shell-fish, etc., may be added, flavouring also with 
fine herbs and condiments, according to taste. I 
may add that the process may be con- 
ducted in a properly ventilated oven care, gives 
where a clear fire is really not to be had, 
producing a result nearly, although not quite, equal 
to true roasting; or the dish may be first placed 
in the oven, and be finished before the fire, which is 



196 Food and Feeding. 

better. Cooked, however, as first described, such a 
dish may be welcome at any table ; in preparing 
red mullet, for example, as just referred to, it is in- 
imitable ; while a fresh haddock or a dory, stuffed or 
not, take higher rank by being thus treated. But the 
working man also can thus advantageously cook 
before his kitchen fire, in a common Dutch oven, 
some fillets of plaice or skate with a slice or two 
of bacon ; the dish to be filled or garnished with 
some previously boiled haricots ; and by this means 
he may secure an economical and most savoury meal, 
which is at the same time nutritious. This is but 
a single illustration among many which might be 
adduced, of what may be done by this simple method 
for those whose resources are of the slenderest kind. 
Having regard to this question of economy and 
preserving the juices of the fish, it should 
a wasteful never be forgotten that by boiling it in 
process. ^^^ manner considerable waste of nutri- 

tive material occurs. Relative to this subject, I have 
made numerous experiments, and find that the loss 
in weight by boiling varies with different fish, and 
also with the mode of operating. It is rarely as low 
as five per cent, it is generally much more, and I 
have known it to reach thirty per cent., the water 
in which the fish has been boiled containing of course 
a certain amount of lost solid animal matter. In 
order to avoid waste as much as possible, the fish 
should be placed in absolutely boiling water, which 
should contain a good proportion of salt. The liquor 



Boiling causes much Loss. 197 

in which the fish has thus been cooked, I have 
evaporated, and have obtained from it, in solid 
deposit, no less than four per cent, of the original 
weight of the fish ; a considerable quantity, consti- 
tuting it, in fact, a fish broth. There steaming 
is no doubt, then, that steaming is a far P^ferable. 
more economical process than boiling, and ought 
to be substituted for the latter when fish is to be 
cooked by heated water only. See description of 
that method at pp. 105, 106. 

To return to the utilization of the commoner kinds 
of fish, and of fish trimmings or cuttings, pish soups, 
in the composition of stock. From such ^*'^" 
materials may be made a soup, or better still, a stew 
of fish, in very savoury and nutritious form, for the 
economical purchaser ; or a delicate and attractive 
dish may be presented for an experienced palate. 
I may offer as an example of the former a French 
a receipt from Gouffd, for making a good receipt. 
consommi of fish only, without any meat, and there- 
fore a soup maigre. 

Put into a large frying-pan, with about three- 
quarters of a pound of butter, five large carrots, four 
onions, three heads of celery, four shalots ; all the fore- 
going to be cut in slices. One head of garlic (better 
omitted here), three cloves, two bay leaves, one sprig 
of thyme, twelve sprigs of parsley. Lightly fry them 
till they acquire a reddish colour. Add a bottle of 
dry Sauterne, and eight pints of water ; boil, skim, 
and then add one ounce and a half of salt, and two 



198 Food and Feeding. 

pinches of mignonette pepper. Put in a stewpan six 
or seven pounds of gurnets cut into pieces ; next add 
the bones of six whiting, keeping the fillets for clari- 
fying. Let it simmer for two hours on the side of 
the fire. When it is finished, strain through a cloth. 
Pound the fillets of whiting with two whites of eggs ; 
clarify the consommi of fish with the whites of egg 
and fillets of whiting. The vegetables must be suffi- 
ciently fried to give the consommi a light tint {Op. 
cit., p. 348). 

The next, a simpler receipt, can be recommended. 
An English ^f*^"" numerous trials, as an excellent 
receipt. family fish soup. 

Put three ounces of butter into a stewpan ; add two 

carrots sliced ; one onion and a shalot, in thin slices ; 

then cloves, a little thyme, and some parsley. Fry 

them gently until of a reddish tint ; then add three 

or four pints of cold water. Let it boil, skimming 

occasionally. Then add a small fresh haddock, bones 

and all, cut up into pieces, and the head and bones of 

three whitings, setting aside the fillets. A cod's head, 

or that of a turbot, or the fresh bones, head, and fins 

of two large soles, the fillets of which are required 

for another dish, may take the place of 
Fish soup. 

the foregomg, or be cut in pieces and 

added thereto, according to the quantity required. 

Add some salt and a little pepper. Let all simmer 

together for two hours gently, at the corner of the 

fire ; take out the bones and pass all the rest through 

a coarse strainer. Divide the fillets of whiting into 



Fish Soups Excellent. 199 

two or three small portions each, boil for a few 
minutes in some of the stock, add a little fresh green 
chervil and parsley chopped, not too finely, and serve 
all together in a tureen. 

If the soup is preferred somewhat thicker in body 
than this receipt produces, let it be made xo thicken 
so by adding some farinaceous matter in '*• 
small quantity, as crime dti riz, or, if preferred, a table- 
spoonful of white roux (that is, a little flour well 
mixed with butter in a stewpan over the fire, cooked, 
but not allowed to brown) ; either addition is un- 
doubtedly an improvement. 

It is, in my opinion, undesirable to clarify fish 
soups ; if other garnish is desired, quenelles to garnish 
of whiting may be substituted for the **• 
fillets ; and some of them may have a little coral 
(spawn of the lobster) added to furnish flavour and 
colour. A further change may be made by adding 
fillets of other fish, or a few shell-fish, and a few small 
balls of seasoning, similar to that used for veal and 
poultry. 

To make a bouillabaisse in the Marseillaise fashion,* 

take three or four pounds of fish, „ 

^ Marseilles 

whiting, sole, small haddock, red mullet, receipt for 

, c ■^^ • J.I. • i t- • bouillabaisse, 

and, following the instructions given 

strictly throughout, a very small conger eel or a 

portion of one. All these are to be cleaned, cut in 

slices, and their bones removed ; two dozen of mussels 

to be added. The receipt in question is as follows : — 

* Referred to at p. 146. 



200 Food and Feeding. 

Put into a stewpan two onions sliced, two tomatoes 
peeled, a carrot sliced ; then, in a coarse net bag, the 
following : two bay leaves, two slices of lemon, half 
the zest of a Seville orange, two cloves, a little thyme, 
several sprigs of parsley, a clove of garlic, two red 
capsicums cut, and a little saffron ; add salt and 
pepper, and a little pimento. Place the pieces of fish 
over these, pour in six tablespoonfuls of olive oil ; 
add three pints of water, with two or three glasses 
of white French wine ; cover, and let all boil well 
together for half an hour. The whiting, however, 
should be put in only a quarter of an hour before 
finishing. Serve the whole in a soup tureen with 
slices of toasted bread apart ; or place them in the 
tureen before filling. 

The following receipt is offered for an economical 
dish, or fish stew, suitable for a working man's 
family : — 

Take three or four pounds of hake, ling, skate, or 

,„ . . haddock, and a pound of " cuttings or 

Working . 

man's fish trimmings," which are the best part of 

St6V7> 

the fish for stock making. Remove all 
the fish from the bones, break up or pound the latter, 
and set aside with any portion of head there may 
be, and the cuttings. Put into a saucepan, over the 
fire, two ounces of lard and two or three onions 
sliced, and let them fry until brown ; then add two 
quarts of water and all the pounded bones and trim- 
mings, some parsley or other green herbs, pepper 
and salt. Let the whole simmer for three hours. 



stews of Fish. 201 

adding the amount of water lost by evaporation. 
Strain out the bones, bits of skin, etc., add the fish 
in pieces, and boil gently ten or fifteen minutes. 
Thicken with sufficient flour mixed smoothly with a 
small portion of stock, and added before finishing. 
In order to make the dish complete and substantial, 
a few small suet dumplings should be well boiled 
and put into the tureen. 



CHAPTER X. 

Milk, an example of a natural " complete " food — That of the 
cow is its type — Its use as food almost universal — Essen- 
tially an animal food — Most important that it should be 
pure and uncontaminated — Being very susceptible of injury, 
in distribution and otherwise, and thus becomes a fertile 
source of disease — Many epidemics of fever, etc., caused by 
the milk trade— Tuberculous milk — Analysis, and nutritive 
value — Milk essentially food for the young growing animal 
— Whey — Koumiss — Strict sanitary measures employed to 
ensure the purity and wholesomeness of milk — Prudence 
requires it to be generally regarded as a raw product, to be 
taken only after boihng, especially by travellers abroad. 

The term "complete," as we have seen in the 
fourth chapter, is employed to denote that the food 
so designated contains all the elements necessary to 
the support of the body, and to the activity of its 
functions. Most commonly, such nourishment is a 
compound of two or more animal or vegetable sub- 
stances, combined in order to afford the various 
elements necessary to meet all the demands of 
Milk is the animal life. But there is a notable 

type of a example of a single animal product, 

"complete" *■ , . , 

foodprovided perhaps the best which can be offered 

^ °* " ■ as a complete food ; one prepared by 

nature, furnished in great abundance, and which we 



Importance of Pure Supply. 203 

are all well acquainted with, namely, milk. It is a 
product which slightly varies in different species of 
the mammalian family. That form which we are 
most familiar with is the milk of the cow, and it 
may be taken as the type. It constitutes so large 
and so valuable a part of the food of man in temperate 
climates, that some account of it is desirable here, 
particularly as the subject is rapidly growing in 
interest and importance, and as the popular know- 
ledge respecting it is very imperfect. 

I have said that the subject of milk is growing in 
importance ; this is true on the following Exceedingly 
grounds. First, because it is essential ™P°fh"**° 
to the well-being of young children to P"re supply, 
have milk which is produced of excellent quality 
at its source ; and secondly, it is equally necessary 
that it should not be adulterated, or otherwise injured 
in the processes of transit and distribution. Mean- 
time, as our population grows more dense, sources 
of contamination increase, and the task of obtaining 
an absolutely pure supply is more difficult. Very 
much more is contained in these simple statements 
than is at first discerned by the popular eye. 

Before making further comments thereupon, let us 
recall the fact that, excepting only the article of 
wheaten bread, milk is perhaps the most universally 
employed food in this country. And I because 
am not quite sure that the exception fg^l'^da^'y 
made above is correctly stated to be so. consumer. 
Every man, woman, and child in the kingdom, 



204 Food and Feeding. 

with few exceptions, consumes milk in some form 

at least once or twice daily ; while for the youngest 

part of the community, during the most critical stage 

of early growth, milk forms the chief and the best 

source of nourishment. Now it is to be remembered 

in connection with these striking facts, that milk is 

a complex animal food, and one which so rapidly 

decomposes, that in hot weather a few 
It decom- '^ . 

poses hours suffice to injure it materially. 

rapi y, Moreover, it is extremely liable to con- 

tamination if exposed to impure atmospheric in- 
fluences, etc. But the most serious danger connected 
and is very with milk as food is associated with the 
become ^^* daily process of distribution neces- 

tainted ; gary in order to convey the product from 

the cow to the consumer. No doubt that water is 
wilfully added in some small quantity to a large 
proportion of the supply in order to cheapen it ; but 
where this is not done, all the vessels employed in 
dairy operations are more or less carefully and com- 
pletely washed twice a day. It is this 
to transmit 
the germs contact with water, employed by no 

' means always, as it ought to be, at the 
boiling point, which constitutes the milk trade a 
ready and unceasing agency for the spread of three 
or four forms of disease among the population. It 
is only within the last few years that we have become 
aware that one of the principal channels by which 
typhoid fever, scarlet fever, and diphtheria are pro- 
pagated, is the agency which conveys the daily milk 



Milk often transmits Disease. 205 

from the cow to every house in the kingdom. Water 

which contains some admixture of sewage ^ . . , 

by admixture 
matter is liable to become contaminated with sewage 

by the excreta of persons suffering from 
infectious disease ; and thus, in its very employment 
for cleansing milk vessels, the seeds of disease may be 
deposited in a single milk can, from which twenty 
families, say, are supplied. It is foolish, or worse, 
to ignore the presence of this and similar sources of 
danger to the community, resulting from the rapid 
increase of population, or to affect that it is unwise 
to be sensitive concerning the presence of dangers to 
health in the daily routine of the household, seeing 
that their discovery and removal may render life 
there more enjoyable and secure. 

Had such counsel been listened to by our fore- 
fathers, the mortality from fever might Milk has 
still be in this country what it was forty disflminated 
years ago ; moreover, we know that the typhoid, 
cause now in question, like every other cause of fever, 
is a removable one, if reasonable precautions are 
taken. It was greatly due to the late Dr. Murchison, 
and to the late Mr. Ernest Hart, who more than any 
one studied this subject exhaustively, , . 

that the great epidemic of typhoid fever known 

., . , ^ .. , , . o illustration, 

m the parish of Marylebone, in 1873, 

was traced to a single case at a country farm which 
supplied milk to a dairy in that parish ; directly oc- 
casioning no less than two hundred and eighteen 
cases of fever among the customers of that dairy, of 



2o6 Food and Feeding. 

whom twenty-six died. From these a vast number 
of other cases arose, how many could never by any 
inquiry be correctly estimated. 

During the succeeding ten years no less than 
eighty-one (separate) epidemics were similarly traced 
in various parts of this country to milk distribution.* 

There is another source of disease associated with 
Tuberculous ^'^ "^^ °^ milk, besides the contamina- 
Milk. \.\on described, arising from a constitu- 

tional malady to which the cow is subject, namely, 
tuberculosis. When this is present, the disease is liable 
to be communicated from a characteristic ulceration 
affecting the udder to the milk itself, rendering it 
highly dangerous to the consumer. So important is 
this fact, that I shall but quote the words of a high 
authority regarding the sole precaution which can 
render the consumer safe from infection, namely, 
" As regards milk, tuberculous infection is so readily 
destroyed by boiling that this ought to be done as a 
precautionary measure by every householder." t Let 
me add that for many years, in travelling, whether in 

* See an admirable and very concise account of the subject 
in a paper read at a meeting of the Social Science Congress, at 
Huddersfield, October, 1883, by Mr. Ernest Hart, and entitled, 
" Is it desirable to take any, and what, further measures to pre- 
vent the spread of Zymotic Diseases through the Milk Supply of 
our Towns ? " London : Smith, Elder & Co. 

t ''A System of Medicine," edited by J. Clifford Allbutt, 
M.A., M.D., etc. (Macmillan, 1897), vol. ii., article "Tuber- 
culosis," by Sidney Maitin, M.D., F.R.S., etc.. Professor of 
Pathology in University College, London, etc. 



Constituents of Milk. 207 

this country or abroad, I never take raw milk, but 
invariably pursue the course recommended at p. 212. 

The foregoing brief statements suiifice to show the 
importance of the dairy and its products in con- 
nection with the subject of food, even when considered 
apart from the question of their dietetic Composition 
value. I shall next proceed to describe °^ ™''^- 
the composition and characteristics of good milk, 
adding some remarks on its use as diet, and then 
indicate the practical mode in which those who are 
interested in obtaining it unadulterated and uncon- 
taminated may obtain their object. 

Of good cow's milk, nearly one seventh part by 

weight is solid matter, the remainder is 

The solids, 
water. 

Of this seventh part, rather more than a third is 
" lactose," or milk-sugar ; rather less than a third is 
" casein," the basis of cheese ; rather more than a 
fourth is " milk-fat," or cream ; the small remainder 
being salts or mineral matter. The foregoing propor- 
tions are sufficiently correct for ordinary purposes, 
and are easily remembered. A more exact analysis 
is given here of the proportions in 100 parts of milk 
by weight 



Water .... 

Solids — Milk-fat, or cream 

Casein, or albuminoid 
Milk-sugar, or lactose 
Salts . 



3-9 

4'3 

4-6 
0-8 



86-s 



13-5 



2o8 Food and Feeding. 

The specific gravity is generally about 1030 to 

Specific 1033. ^t 60° Fahr. ; but specific gravity 

gravity. alone cannot be regarded as an exact 

test of quality, since the quantity of cream varies 

„ . , with different specimens ; and as cream 

Considera- 
tion in is of lighter specific gravity than milk, 

a specimen of the latter, which is ex- 
tremely rich in cream, other ingredients being the 
same, will weigh lighter than one which is deficient 
Amount of in cream. But that a sample of milk 
meiure*of* exceptionally rich in cream should be 
value. offered for sale, although hypothetically 

possible, must be regarded as practically impossible 
in the last degree. The nutritive value of milk 
corresponds, of course, with the aggregate amount 
of all the solids contained, and for all purposes 
of the consumer, the specific gravity corresponds 
with that amount, the figure rising as the solids are 
augmented. 

The specific gravity of unadulterated milk furnished 
by different healthy cows may be regarded as ranging 
between 1027 and 1035. But the mixed product of 
several such cows equals at least 1030 or 103 1. If 
the milk furnished by any dealer is persistently below 
1030, there is ground for complaint on the p»rt of the 
customer ; and I think it may be said that any metro- 
politan dairy of repute will furnish a uniform supply 
of milk decidedly above 1030. Nevertheless, there is 
a large quantity sold by the small dealers to the poor, 
of which the specific gravity is no more than 1025 or 



Anaiysis of Milk. 209 

1026. Nothing, however, is easier than to ascertain the 

real value of any sample which the purchaser desires 

to test. A lactometer may be bought use of the 

for 2s. 6d. : it is only necessary to float lactometer. 

it in a jug of milk, and the figure on its scale, which 

is level with the surface of the milk, is the specific 

gravity ; the temperature should be about 60° Fahr. 

Where an exact analysis is required, as, for example, 

to determine the question of fining a 

Amount of 
fraudulent dealer, the value of the solids must 

sample has to be found, by ascertaining the q^stion 

the amount of solids present, apart from °^ adultera- 

"■ "^ honbywater. 

the cream, and estimating the latter 

separately. 

The Society of Public Analysts requires a minimum 

of " nine per cent, of solids, not fat : " 

^ ' Amount 

and any sample which does not reach of solids 

that amount has almost invariably been ^^ 

adulterated with water, and the seller of it is liable 

to a fine. But "nine per cent." is a low standard 

determined on to avoid the infliction of hardship 

on any small dealer who may have been supplied 

from the country with a genuine, though exceptionally 

poor milk, of which the solids did not exceed nine 

per cent. ; and it may probably yet be altered. Hence, 

vast quantities of milk which are sold every day at 

that standard, contain a good deal of added water. 

The standard of the best metropolitan dairies, whose 

interest it is to supply unadulterated milk, is always 

higher. 



2IO Food and Feeding. 

Milk is essentially the food of the growing animal. 
Milk is the Supplied by nature for the rapid de- 



e-rowing velopment of the young calf, it is, with 



food of 

growin_ 

animals. a little modification, admirably adapted 

for our young children. It is excellent food, too, 

for some adults; by no means for all. Those who 

take much exercise, or follow laborious occupations, 

may make it a useful portion of their dietary. It is 

rarely suitable for sedentary persons, or for those who 

Not neces- have reached the latter stage of life when 

luita^riT^^^ the powers diminish, and the habits be- 

the adult. come less active than heretofore. As a 

drink at meal time, it is for the most part undesirable ; 

for liquids taken with solid food need not be nutritious, 

indeed, are better not to be so : they are rather required 

to dilute and dissolve the latter, nutritive material 

being for the most part abundantly supplied by the 

solid constituents of a meal. 

Milk forms a more suitable form of drink when the 

fat has been removed, when, in short, it 
Whey. 

has been skimmed. If the casein is also 

taken out, as in cheese-making, the whey, which now 

contains little besides the sugar and the salts, is a 

very "wholesome beverage, when fresh. Milk may 

be fermented also, and an agreeable light effervescing 

drink results, known as Koumiss, and 
Koumiss. , , , . -r. . ,„ 

largely used m Russian Tartary, where 

it is made chiefly from the milk of the mare, which 

slightly differs from that of the cow. The latter, 

however, is now treated here in the same way, and 



Milk as Diet, Precautions. 211 

is in no respect inferior ; it is widely recognized as 

useful in some chronic complaints, and has been 

more or less successful. 

In order to ensure unadulterated and uncontami- 

nated milk, it is necessary to adopt _ 

. ^ Precautions 

habitually certain precautions, or the to ensure 

probability of obtaining that which is 
impure at some time or another, during the long 
array of chances which life affords, is not inconsider- 
able. This fact makes it desirable that the milk trade 
should be subjected to official sanitary supervision. 
For the present the following hints for guidance may 
be useful : — 

First, In country districts, where the consumer is 

commonly supplied direct from the farm, „ . 

^ '^'^ Drainage at 

it should be ascertained that the dairy the dairy 

is completely detached from all the 

drains of the house and yards, and that the well 

used for dairy washing should be uncontaminated 

by sewage. It should be an absolute ^ . 

Dairyvessels 
rule that all vessels are scalded once a and boiling 

day at least with boiling water. 

Secondly. When in such districts infectious disease 

occurs at the dairy farm, whether in the 

dwelling house or in the cowsheds, no be used when 

milk should be distributed on any pre- disease"^ 

text, until the sources of infection have occurs at the 

dairy farm, 
disappeared. 

Thirdly. When doubt exists as to the source of 

milk, as during a fever epidemic, and no milk 



212 Food and Feeding. 

absolutely beyond suspicion is to be had, it should 
be well boiled before it is used as food, by which 
process it is rendered safe. Some of those who 
have most studied the subject, are so impressed 
with its importance, and especially in relation to the 
„.,. . interests of the family, as to advise that 

tained from all milk should be thoroughly boiled 
sources to before it is consumed. They believe 
be boiled. ^^^ j^ jg ^jgg ^^ regard milk as a raw 

food, and undesirable, on grounds above stated, for 
human consumption, until it has been cooked. Con- 
tinental travellers will do well to take it in this form, 
and as it is always thus served for cafi-au-lait abroad, 
there is no difficulty in obtaining it at any time. 

Fourthly. In all large towns and in the metropolis. 
Obtain milk milk should be obtained solely from 
tributorsof some extensive organization of high re- 
high repute, pute, well known to have made it an 
absolute principle of its business to distribute milk 
solely from sources which are held under vigilant 
supervision by a competent person. Moreover, every 
can of milk received from the country for distribution 
should be examined for quality, before being delivered 
to the public. This is a mode of proceeding which is 
now thoroughly understood and practised, at least in 
London ; and there is no real difficulty in adopting 
such precautions, as well as others not less important, 
as has been practically proved for several years, at 
least by one great institution, on a large scale, in this 
metropolis. For the present, it is incumbent on every 



Described in Dealing with it. 213 

housekeeper who regards the health of his family, to 
exercise caution after the manner here indicated. At 
no distant period, all country dairies from whence 
milk is sent away for sale, as well as the public milk- 
shops held by dealers in towns, will, without doubt, 
be subject to official inspection, and be regulated by 
sanitary enactments. In the accomplishment of this 
ceaseless task of milk distribution, almost nothing 
can be done by any single individual to avert the 
dangers to which carelessness and misfortune expose 
him ; while well-devised arrangements of the nature 
suggested may render him almost secure. 



CHAPTER XL 

The combination of dishes to form a meal — Three typical 
systems of arranging daily meals — The French or Conti- 
nental — The provincial (Great Britain) — That of town life 
(London) — Characteristics of each meal — Breakfast — Lunch 
— Dinner, of two kinds : the family meals, the dinner of 
invitation — The rationale of the initial soup — Plan of dishes 
to follow discussed — Hors-d'ceuvres — More in vogue on the 
Continent than in this country — Most of all in Russia — As 
a dietetic habit, it is undesirable for reasons given. 

The art of combining dishes to form a meal now 
demands our consideration. The occupations of man 
in a civilized state, no less than the natural suggestions 
D '1 m al °^ ^^^ appetite, require stated and regular 
should be times for feeding. But the number of 

■ these set apart in the twenty-four hours 

differs considerably among different races, and also 
among different classes of society. It must suffice 
for us to consider the subject only so far as the limits 
of Europe are concerned. Taking a general view of 
this subject, it may be said that there are three 
principal systems to which all varieties of habit may 
be reduced. From an English point of view these 
may be regarded as — 



Daily System regarding Meals. 215 

1. The French system of two chief meals a day ; 
adopted by other Continental nations. Number 

2. The system of provincial life (Great ^fffere^ 
Britain) of four meals, with which races. 

the habits of Holland and Northern Sree chirf ° 

Germany are more or less analogous. systems. 

3. The system of town life, of which London is 
the type, or three meals a day. 

1. In the French system, the slight refreshment 
served in the early morning, in the form 

of coffee or chocolate, with a rusk or a French 
roll of bread, does not amount to a meal. ®^^ ^'°" 
It is only a dish, and that a light one, and not a 
combination of dishes, which is then taken. At or 
about noon a substantial meal, the dejeHner, is served ; 
and at six or seven o'clock, an ample dinner. Such 
IS the two-meal system, and it appears to answer well 
throughout the West and South of Europe. 

2. What I have termed the provincial system con- 
sists of a substantial breakfast at eight _ ... 

° 2, English 

or nine, a dinner at one or two, a light provincial 

tea about five, and a supper at nine or 

ten. It is this which is popular throughout our own 

provincial districts, and also among middle-class 

society of our northern districts throughout both town 

and country. As already indicated, the usages of the 

Dutch and of their immediate neighbours 

resembles 
on the sea-coast, as well as of the great that of 

German nation, correspond more to this ^^' 

than to the first-named system. The number of 



2i6 Food and Feeding. 

meals may be regarded as the same, although not 
taken at the hours named above ; coffee, and not tea, 
being taken morning and afternoon. 

3. The prevailing system of London, and of the 
numerous English families throughout 
London the country, whose habits are formed 

from partial residence in town, or by 
more or less intimate acquaintance with town life, is 
that of three meals daily. In general terms the 
breakfast takes place between eight and ten, the 
lunch about two, the dinner from seven to half-past 
eight, or even later. 

In all cases each meal has its own specific character. 
B akf t Thus, in this country, breakfast is the 

and its cha- most irregular in its service, and least of 
r&c tcris tics . 

all demands general and intimate co- 
herence of the party assembled. Individual interests 
concerned in the arrival of the letter-bag, in the 
morning news, in plans for the day, in cares of coming 
business, etc., are respected. Provision for acknow- 
ledged dietetic peculiarities on the part of individuals 
is not forgotten, punctual attendance at the hour 
named is not required, and every one comes or goes 
as he pleases. 

At lunch the assembly is still somewhat uncertain. 

Thus some members of the family are 
Lunch. 

absent without remark ; intimate friends 

may appear without special invitation ; while those 

less intimate can be asked with small ceremony. 

Occupations of pleasure or of business still press for 



Breakfast^ Lunch, Dinner. 217 

pursuit during the afternoon, and the meal for such 
may not be too substantial. It should suffice a,mply 
to support activity ; it should never be so consider- 
able as to impair it. Here may be just named an 
invention of comparatively recent date, Afternoon 
afternoon tea, which, however, cannot *®*" 
be reckoned as a meal. In reality, a pleasant excuse 
to mark the hour for friendly gossip with a hostess 
" at home," it may be the occasion of undesirable 
habits, if enough solid food is eaten to impair digestion 
and "spoil" the coming dinner. Nothing can be 
more undesirable at this hour than sweet and rich 
cake, hot buttered toast or muffins ; nevertheless 
they are frequently offered. But d. propos of tea, many 
of us might with advantage avoid the sugar and the 
cream, which at this hour interfere with the stomach 
far more than does the infusion itself, and add in their 
place a delicate slice of lemon neither thicker nor 
larger than a half-crown, the flavour of which — 
fragrant peel and a hint of acid — combines with the 
aroma of good tea, without in the least disguising or 
flattening it as the conventional additions do. It 
would be almost as rational to add cream and sugar 
to wine, as to fine and delicately flavoured tea. 
Occasionally tea is served with lemon in this country, 
but it is mostly added in excess. A very slight 
shaving, which contains both peel and pulp, is ample 
for an ordinary cup. 

The last meal of the three, dinner, has characters 
wholly different from the preceding. The prime 



2i8 Food and Feeding. 

occupations of the day are over ; the guests are 

known and numbered ; the sentiment is 
Dinner; . . r ■, -,• • r i 

one of reunion after the dispersion of the 

day — of relaxation after its labours, sports, or other 

active pleasures. Whatever economy of time may 

have been necessary in relation to the foregoing 

meals, all trace of hurry should disappear at dinner. 

A like feeling makes the supper of the " provincial " 

system a similarly easy and enjoyable meal. And all 

this is iqually true of dinner, whether it unites the 

family only, or brings an addition of guests. General 

conversation : the events and personal incidents of the 

day, the current topics of the hour, are discussed in a 

light spirit, such as is compatible with proper attention 

to the dishes provided. All that follows late dinner 

should for the most part be amusement — it may be 

at the theatre, an evening party, or a quiet evening at 

the most home. There should be ample time, 

important, however, for every coming engagement, 

and security for some intervening rest for digestion. 

Dinner, then, is the only meal which — as the greater 

^ . .. includes the less — need be discussed in 

to be dis- 
cussed at the third part of our subject, which 
Icnorth* 

claims to treat of custom and art in 

combining dishes to form a repast. With the re- 
quirements and under the circumstances just speci- 
fied, it should not be a heavy meal, but it should be 
sufficing. No one after dinner should feel complete 
satiety or repletion, with a sense of repugnance at the 
idea of eating more ; but all should still enjoy the 



Dinners: Family and Invitation. 219 

conviction that a good meal furnishes delightful and 
refreshing occupation. 

Dinners are of two kinds — the ordinary meal of the 
family, and the dinner to which guests Dinners of 
are invited. There is a third dinner in *''° '^'^s. 
this country, of common — too common — occurrence, 
viz. the public dinner, which is essentially a British 
institution, and cannot be passed by in silence. 

The late dinner should never include children. It 
is a meal which is in every way unsuited The family 
to them ; and they are quite unfitted to <l'°ner- 
take part in its functions ; besides, the four-meal 
system is better adapted to their requirements of 
growth and digestion in early life. A family dinner 
may usually consist of a soup, fish, a substantial and 
a light entree, a roast and a sweet ; the light entrh 
may even be omitted. If, however, the meal is 
required to be more substantial, a joint may be 
served in addition after the fish ; but this should be 
very rarely necessary. A special dish of vegetables 
may be advantageously placed before or after the 
roast, according to circumstances ; and supplementary 
vegetables should be always at hand. Cheese or a 
light savoury trifle may complete the menu. 

The rationale of the initial soup has often been 
discussed : some regard it as calculated why soup is 
to diminish digestive power, on the the first dish, 
theory that so much fluid taken at first dilutes the 
gastric juices. But there appears to be no foun- 
dation for this belief: a clear soup, or the fluid 



220 Food and Feeding. 

constituents of a pur^e, disappear almost immediately 
after entering the stomach, being absorbed by the 
proper vessels, and in no way interfere with the 
gastric juice which is stored in its appropriate cells 
ready for action. The habit of commencing dinner 
with soup has without doubt its origin in the fact 
that aliment in this fluid form — in fact, ready digested 
— soon enters the blood and rapidly refreshes the 
hungry man, who, after a considerable fast and much 
activity, often sits down with a sense of exhaustion 
to commence his principal meal. In two or three 
minutes after taking a plate of good warm consomm^, 
the feeling of exhaustion disappears, and irritability 
gives way to the gradually rising sense of good- 
fellowship with the circle. Some persons are accus- 
tomed to allay exhaustion by taking a glass of sherry 
before food — a gastronomic no less than a physio- 
logical blunder, since it overstimulates and tends to 
injure an empty stomach, while it depraves the 
palate. On the other hand, the soup introduces at 
once into the system a small instalment of ready- 
digested food, and saves the period of time which, in 
the absence of soup, must be spent by the stomach 
in deriving some portion of nutriment from solid 
aliment ; and thus the organ of digestion itself is 
rapidly strengthened for its forthcoming duties. 

Few persons will be found to dispute the second 

place in order to fish, although this 
Next, fish. ^ . 

arrangement is in some quarters an 

open question : its discussion, however, can scarcely 



Order of Dishes served. 221 

be regarded as within the limit of our space. The 
third dish should consist of the chief 
meat, the joint, if desired ; and this is substantial 
undoubtedly the place for it, if a sub- **'®''' 
stantial meal is required. The chief nutritious supply 
being thus afforded to the system, more delicate 
dishes, eaten in smaller quantity, and esteemed for 
their special qualities of flavour, aroma, or texture, 
should follow in an order which makes one comple- 
mentary of or introductory to the next. Such, for 
example, as an entree of cutlets, poultry, 
or sweetbread, etc., well garnished, are ' 

appropriate, and by many will be found preferable. 
Next, the well-roasted bird — of game or 
poultry — accompanied or followed by ®'^°*s , 
salad ; and after this, or, if preferred, before the roast, 
a dish of choice vegetables, worthy to j.j,g <iig_ 
be served alone ; e.g. asparagus, seakale, ^""^ : " 
early peas, globe artichokes, etc. Then one light 
simple sweet, for those who take it, and a slight 
savoury biscuit, a grilled mushroom or sweet and 
a morsel of cheese completes the repast, savoury. 
Such a meal contains within its limits all that can 
be desired for daily enjoyment and use. If well 
and liberally served, it is complete in every sense 
of the word. Dessert and its extent is a matter 
of individual taste ; of wines, coffee, and liqueurs 
I shall speak hereafter. 

A word about hors-d^ceuvres. It is well known 
that the custom exists to a very wide extent among 



222 Food and Feeding. 

Continental nations of commencing either midday 

" Hors- d^jeilner or dinner by eating small 

d'oeuvres;" portions of cold pickled fish, of raw 

vegetables, of highly flavoured sausage thinly sliced, 

etc., to serve, it is said, as a whet to appetite. This 

custom reaches its highest development in the za- 

,, „ kuska of the Russian, which, consisting 

the "za- ' ' ° 

kuska " of of numerous delicacies of the kind 

the Russians. ^. , . . ^ -l r t 

mentioned, is sometimes to be found 

occupying a table in an ante-room to be passed 
between the drawing-room and dining-room ; or, and 
more commonly, spread on the sideboard of the 
latter. The Russian eats a little from three or four 
dishes at least, and " qualifies " with a glass of strong 
grain spirit {vodka) or of some liqueur, before taking 
his place at the table. Among these savoury pre- 
liminaries may often be found caviare 
Caviare. 

in its fresh state, grey, pearly, succulent, 

and delicate, of which most of the caviare found 

in this country is but as the shadow to the substance. 

I have no hesitation in saying, after much con- 

„ , sideration of the practice of thus com- 

Remarks 

on "hors- mencing a meal, that there is no good 

' warrant for it on the part of individuals 
endowed with fairly good appetite and digestion. 
For them, both pickled food and spirit are un- 
desirable, at any rate, on an empty stomach. And 
if appetite and digestion are wanting, the stimulant 
of the hors-d'oeuvres is not only unnatural but 
decidedly prejudicial. Rational means to regain 



Hors-d' ceuvres , "Zakuska;" Oysters. 223 

appetite are indicated in such circumstances. And 
the hors-d'osuvres, although frequent attempts, from 
sheer force of imitation, to transplant them here 
are made, happily do not, as far as I have observed, 
thriye on our soil. They have been introduced here 
chiefly, I think, because their presence being de- 
manded by foreign gastronomic taste, is supposed 
to be therefore necessarily correct. But the active 
exercise and athletic habits of the Englishman, his 
activity of body and mind in commercial pursuits, 
all tend to bring him to the dinner-table wanting 
food rather than appetite, and in no mind to ask 
for " whets " to increase it. Among idle their value 
men, whose heavy lunch, liberally accom- of(.g„*^^^^'*^ 
panied with wine and not followed by questionable, 
.exercise, has barely disappeared from the stomach 
at the hour of dinner, a piquant prelude as stimulus 
of appetite is resorted to. Hence the original 
invention of hors-d'ceuvres ; and their appearance 
in a very much slighter and more delicate form than 
that which has been described, still to be observed 
in connection with the chief repasts of the . Latin 
races. The one plate which heralds dinner, and is 
indigenous to pur country, is also one of its own 

best products — the oyster. But this is 

Oysters, 
scarcely a hors-d' osuvre. In itself a 

single service of exquisite quality, served with 

attendant graces of mild and delicate vinegar or lemon 

juice, brown bread and butter, and a glass of light 

chablis for those who take it, the half-dozen natives 



224 Food and Feeding. 

occupying the hollow shells hold rank of a very 
different kind to that of the miscellaneous assort- 
ment of tit-bits alluded to. Oysters are, in fact, the 
first dish of dinner and not its precursor ; the preface, 
and not the needless and obtrusive advertisement. 
And this brings us to the dinner of invitation. 



CHAPTER XII. 

Dinners of invitation — Two kinds : small and select ; large but 
complete — The old pretentious style described — Scheme of 
a rational dinner-party — Priority in the service of various 
courses or dishes discussed — Dessert — The quart cfheure 
after dinner — Turtle and fish dinners — Curry — Sketch for a 
small dinner. 

And of this entertainment, the dinner of invitation, 

there are two very distinct kinds. First, _ ^. ,. ^ 
■' _ Two distmct 

there is the little dinner of six or eight types of 
guests, carefully selected for their own 
specific qualities, and combined with judgment to 
obtain a harmonious and successful result. The 
ingredients of a small party, like the The small 
ingredients of a dish, must be well and select, 
chosen to make it "complete." Such are the first 
conditions to be attained in order to achieve the 
highest perfection in dining. Secondly, and the 
there is the dinner of society, which is gociSy" 
necessarily large ; the number of guests Jarge. 
varying from twelve to twenty-four. 

The characteristics of the first dinner are — comfort, 
excellence, simplicity, and good taste. Those of the 
second are — the conventional standard of quality, 

P 



226 Food and Feeding. 

some profusion of supply, suitable display in orna- 
ment and service. 

It must be admitted that, with the large circle of 
acquaintances so commonly regarded as essential to 
existence in modern life, large dinners only enable 
us to repay our dining debts, and exercise the hospi- 
g tality which position demands. With 

drawbacks a strong preference, then, for the little 
attaching^ to . , . , 

the large dinners, it must be admitted that the 

dinner ; larger banquet is a necessary institution ; 

and, therefore, we have only to consider now how 

to make the best of it. 

No doubt the large dinner has greatly improved of 

late ; but it has by no means universally 
improred of arrived at perfection. Only a few years 

ago excellence in quality and good taste 
in cuisine were often sacrificed in the endeavour to 
make a profuse display. Hence, abundance without 
reason, and combinations without judgment, were 
found co-existing with complete indiflference to com- 
fort in the matters of draughts, ventilation, tempe- 

„,.. ^ .. J rature, and consumption of time. Who 

what it used ^ 

to be not among the diners-out who have passed 

ongago. middle age has not encountered in his 
early days an entertainment with some such pro- 
gramme as the following, one of an order which, it is 
to be hoped, is now quite extinct ? 

Eighteen or twenty guests enter a room adapted 
at most to a dinner of twelve. It is lighted with 
gas, the chief available space being occupied by 



Mid-century Dinners. 227 

the table, surrounding which is a narrow lane, barely 

sufficing for the circulation of the ser- crowded; 

vants. Directly — perhaps after oysters — ^^^ service ; 

appear turtle soups, thick and clear. A consommi 

is to be had on demand, but so unexpected a choice 

astonishes the servitor, who brings it after some 

delay, and cold : with it punch. Following, arrive 

the fish — salmon and turbot, one or both, smothered 

in thick lobster sauce : sherry. Four yuigar 

entries promenade the circuit in single Profusion; 

file, whereof the first was always oyster patties ; after 

which came mutton or lamb cutlets, a vol-au-vent, 

etc. : hock and champagne. Three-quarters of an 

hour at least, perhaps an hour, having now elapsed, 

the saddle or haunch of mutton arrives, of which 

gentlemen who have patiently waited adjuncts 

get satisfactory slices, and currant jelly, *^°^'' > 

with cold vegetables or a heavy flabby salad. Then 

come boiled fowls and tongue, or a turkey with solid 

forcemeat ; a slice of ham and so on, ^0 gub- 

up to game, followed by hot substantial stantial ; 

pudding, three or four other sweets, including an iced 

pudding ; wines in variety, more or less 

^ "^ -^ indigestible ; 

appropriate ; to be followed by a pdte de 

foie gras, more salad, biscuits and cheese. Again, 

two ices, and liqueurs. Then an array . , ... 
^ ^ interminable 

of decanters, and the first appearance of dessert and 
red wine ; a prodigious dessert of all ' 

things in and out of season, and particularly those 
which are out of season, as being the more costly. 



228 Food and Feeding. 

General circulation of waiters, handing each dish in 

turn to e\erybody, under a running fire of negatives, 

a ceremonial of ten or fifteen minutes' duration, to 

, .. . say the least. Circulation of decanters, 

ladies leave, "^ 

and more general rustle of silks, disappearance of 

the ladies ; and first change of seat, pre- 
cisely two hours and a half after originally taking it. 
It may be hoped that a charming companion on 
either side has beguiled and shortened a term which 
otherwise must have been tedious. Now general 
closing up of men to host, and reassembling of 
decanters ; age, quality, and vintage of wine dis- 
cussed during consumption thereof. At last coffee, 
which is neither black nor hot. Joining the ladies ; 
music by the daughters of the house ; service of gun- 
powder tea, fatal to the coming night's rest if taken in 
a moment of forgetfulness ; and carriages announced. 

This brief sketch, which accurately portrays the 
dining procedure which prevailed during the forties 
and fifties of the present century, is retained here, 
as not without historical interest to the present 
generation. 

Admitted that such an exhibition is impossible 
Enormous now in any reasonable English circle, it 
ilTtwraty*"* nevertheless corresponded too closely in 
years. style with that of the public dinner up 

to a later period — a state of things without excuse. 
A lighter And the large private dinner is often 

repast g^.jjj ^.qq long, the menu too pretentious. 

Let me, however, be permitted to record, equally in 



Schemes for Select Dinners, iic) 

proof of growing taste and as grateful personal duty, 

the vast improvement which has taken Suggestions 

place. The dinner of society has, since ^qJ^^ 

the earlier editions of this work appeared, dinner. 

been greatly abridged in length and improved by the 

substitution of lighter and more delicate dishes for 

the solid meats of the last generation. At the same 

time, a menu, suitable for a large party, must be 

framed so as to offer various dishes for choice to 

meet the differing tastes of numerous guests, and it 

must therefore be more comprehensive than that 

supplied to a small one, say of eight or nine guests. 

Let us see how this is to be met. First, 

. . , „ The soups, 

the soups : it is the custom to offer a 

consommi, which ought to be perfect in clearness, 

colour, and savour, always to be served perfectly 

hot ; containing a few vegetables, etc., variously 

treated — doubtless the best commencement, as it is 

the key-note of the dinner ; revealing also, as it does, 

nine times out of ten, the calibre of the cook to whose 

talent the guest is entrusted. But there is mostly 

an alternative of " white soup," and this Remarks on 

is almost always a mistake, Many per- '^'^'^^ soups. 

sons refuse it, and they are right, containing, as it 

generally does, a considerable proportion of cream — 

an injudicious beginning, when there is much variety 

to follow ; excellent sometimes as one of three or 

four dishes, but dangerous otherwise to the guest 

who has not an exceptionally powerful digestion. 

But suppose that oysters, vinegar, and chablis have 



230 Food and Feeding. 

just been swallowed ! A brown pur^e, as of game, 
or one of green vegetable, less frequently met with, 
a " Saint Germain," for example, in early summer 

would be safer and more acceptable. 

Two fish, of course, should always be 
served ; as, for instance, a slice of Severn or Christ- 
church salmon, just arrived from the water, for its 
own sake, and a fillet of white fish, for the sake of 
its sauce and garnish, which should be therefore 
perfect. The next dish is, in London, a question 
" Piece de under discussion, viz. the question of 
resistance, precedence of an entrie, or of the pUce 
at all ? de resistance. The custom was to post- 

pone the appearance of the latter until lighter dishes 
have been despatched or declined. If, however, the 
English joint is required at a meal already com- 
prehensive in the matter of dishes, and taken at a 
late hour, it seems more reasonable to serve it next 
to the fish, when those who demand a slice of meat 
may be expected to have an appropriate appetite, 
which will certainly be impaired, equally by accept- 
ing the entries, or fasting partially without them. 
But nothing so substantial as a joint is now required 
at a dinner of this kind ; an entrie of meat, at all 
events, replaces it if wanted ; at most, a little tour- 
nedos of the fillet of beef, or a noisette of mutton, 
. daintily served. Then one or two light 

entrees entries follow, and these must necessarily 

be either in themselves peculiarly tempt- 
ing morsels, or products of culinary skill, offering 



Adapted to any Number. 231 

inducement to the palate rather than to an appetite 

which is no longer keen : for example, a delicate 

souffli of pheasant, leveret, or fowl garnished with 

truffles : while in summer these will 

11 < 11 . The roast; 

naturally be more agreeably served as 

chaudfroids. Then the best roast possible in season 

or choice of two, and a salad ; a first-rate vegetable, 

a slice of really fine ham, to some a most fitting 

accompaniment ; two choice sweets, one of which 

may be iced ; a parmesan souffli, a sweets 

herting-roe on toast, or a morsel of savoury. 

fine barely salted caviare, pale and pearly grey, 

which may be procured in two or three places at 

most in town, will complete the dinner. For dessert, 

which may be ushered in with a couple 

. . ^ , ,. Dessert, 

of companion ices of dehcate texture, 

the finest fruits in season to gratify both eye and 

palate and for light amusement after ; or simply 

nuts in variety, and dry biscuits ; nothing between 

the two is tolerable, and little more than the latter 

is really wanted ; and for decorative purposes the 

resources of flowers are now unbounded, to say nothing 

of autumnal tints for rich variety in season. But it 

may be admitted that the diminished number of sweet 

entremets strengthens the plea for a supply of delicious 

fruits, rendering the dessert useful and agreeable as 

well as ornamental. 

And now that dessert is over, let me say that I do 

not admit the charge sometimes intimated, although 

delicately, by foreigners, of a too obvious proclivity 



232 Food and Feeding. 

to self-indulgence on the part of Englishmen, in per- 

„ , mitting the ladies to leave the table 

Custom of 

ladies without escort to the drawing-room, 

retinng. ^j^^ ^j^ custom of staying half an 

hour, or even an hour afterwards, to drink wine, 
which is doubtless a remnant of barbarism, has long 
been considered indefensible. The best wines the 
Wine at \iOs\. can supply should appear in appro- 

dessert, priate places in the course of dinner, and 

not be reserved, as formerly, until dessert appears. 
And after-dinner drinking should be simply a de- 
mand for a glass or so more of the '70 Port, or of 
the excellent " Mouton," or " Lafite ; " or of that 
perfect "Pommery and Greno," " Moet," "St. Mar- 
ceau," or " Perrier Jouet," * which have been known 
to repose this dozen years or more in some snug and 
quiet cellar of the back basement, where goodly stores 
still exist of the vintage of " '84." For the separation 
A short stay of the party into two portions for fifteen 
have" left '^ or twenty minutes is useful to both, and 
desirable. leads perhaps more completely to a 

general mixture of elements on reunion after than 
is attained by the return of the original pairs together. 
Whether this be so or not, the ladies have a short 
interval for the interchange of hearsays and ideas 
relative to matters chiefly concerning their special 

* Let it be perfectly understood that these brands, undoubtedly 
choice as they are, are named without the slightest intention of 
selecting them for commendation beyond others, and merely as 
illustrating the arrangements suggested in the text. 



Dessert, etc. Special Dinners. 233 

interests ; while the men enjoy that indispensable 

finish to a good dinner, an irreproachable cup of 

coffee and a cigarette ; and the sooner these 

arrive the better, only let all the fine Bordeaux 

be finished before the perfume of Dubec or of 

Havana scents the air. With the small dinners of 

men it can scarcely too quickly follow the last 

service. 

But marked by a special character are some dinners, 

which may be either small or large in special 

relation to the number of guests, but dinners. 

which are necessarily limited as regards the variety 

of aliments served. I refer to dinners ^ „ . 

Turtle in 
at which either turtle or fish predomi- various 

nates. In accordance with a principle ' 

already enunciated, a bowl of substantial stock, con- 
taining four or five broad flakes of the gelatinous 
product, often miscalled "fat," which is the chief 
representative of the turtle in the compound, is not 
a judicious prelude to a dinner arranged according 
to the orthodox programme, and offering the usual 
variety. A lover of turtle indulges freely in the soup, 
both thick and clear, making it, in fact, an important 
instalment of his repast ; and he desires, with or 
without some slight interlude, to meet the favourite 
food again in the form of an entrie. After so sub- 
stantial a commencement, the dinner . ^ ^ 

and what 
should be completed chiefly by poultry, should 

and game if in season, and for the 

most part by dishes which are grilled or roasted 



234 Food and Feeding. 

in contrast to the succulent morsels which have 
preceded. 

The " fish dinner," as a speciality, also an occasional 
The fish departure from daily routine, is accept- 

dinner. able, and gratifies the taste for that 

delicate and pleasant food in considerable variety. 
But if so indulged, very few dishes ought to appear 
subsequently. It is a curious fact that the traditional 
Of the Green- balcon and beans, which appear towards 
wichtype. ^^ close of a Greenwich whitebait 
dinner, should afford another illustration of unde- 
signed compliance with the natural law referred to 
at the outset, the bacon furnishing complementary 
fat to supply its notable absence in fish. 

The enjoyment of a curry — and when skilfully 

made it is almost universally admitted 
The curry. , . , , 

to be one of the most attractive com- 
binations which can be offered to the senses of taste 
and smell — is only possible at a limited repast. 
When freely eaten, very little is acceptable to the 
palate afterwards, exhausted as it is by the pervading 
fragrance of the spice and other adjuncts. Hence 
a curry should form the climax of a short series of 
dishes leading up to it, as an important element in 
a small dinner ; or it may even be presented, in a 
miniature form, a kari mignon, as an elegant and 
acceptable final savoury morsel at the end of a dinner 
of pretension. But when presented, as it sometimes 
is, among the entries of a first course it is wholly out 
of place. 



Small, Quiet Dinners. 235 

Here we may appropriately take a rapid glance 

at the characteristics of the feast where „ 

Suggestions 
the guests are few in number. as to a small 

The small dinner party should be 
seated at a round or oval table, large enough for per- 
sonal comfort, small enough to admit of conversation 
in any direction without effort. The table should of 
course be furnished with taste, but is not to be en- 
cumbered with ornaments, floral or other, capable of 
obstructing sight and sound. A perfect consomm^, 
a choice of two fish, a tournedos from Eight 
the filet, noisette or fricandeau, followed ^'shes ; 
by a chaudfroid, a crime de volaille garnie, a roast 
bird (game, wild duck, quail, plover, or snipe) and 
salad, a choice vegetable, and an iced souffle or 
charlotte ; and in summer a macMoine of fresh fruits 
in an old china family bowl, if there is one; and 
lastly, a savoury croute, accompanying vegetables, 
with crisp thin toast, and appropriate wines ; — may 
be regarded as furnishing a scheme for such a party 
— or a theme of which the variations are endless.* 

From seven or eight to nine or ten, but 

.... . eight guests, 

not more than nme or ten guests, can 

thus be brought into close contact ; with a larger 

number the party is apt to form two coteries, one 

on each side of the host. The number is a good one 

also in relation to the commissariat department — 

eight persons being well supplied by an entree in 

* For an illustration of this, see a series of menus at the end 
of Chapter XIV. 



236 Food and Feeding. 

one dish ; while two dishes are necessary for ten or 

twelve persons. Moreover, one bottle 
One bottle 
supplies of wine divides well in eight ; if, there- 

^'^ ■ fore, the host desire to give with the 

roast one glass of particularly fine ripe Gorton or 
Pomard, a single bottle is equal to the supply ; and 
so with any other choice specimen of which a single 
circulation is required ; and of course the rule holds 
equally if the circuit is to be repeated. Dinners of 
all sizes, up to the largest public dinners, are best 
provided for thus, in multiples of eight ; calculations 
for food, wine, and service, are thus easily and 
accurately made and carried out in practice. 

And this leads us to the question — and an im- 
portant one it is — of the wine ; to be discussed in 
the next chapter. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

The question of wine with dinner — Remarks on the habitual use 
of alcohohc drinks of any kind — Wine should be taken 
chiefly during dinner, never before, not much, if any, after 
— Should be sound and pure, and without pretence — How 
to attain this — Relation of various wines with certain dishes 
— Cigarettes after dinner — Tobacco suggests coffee, and is 
incompatible with fine wine — ^The supply of water at dinner 
— Aerated waters — Foreign mineral waters — Their use at 
home and abroad — Sweet drinks at dinner objectionable. 

I HAVE already said that, among all civilized nations, 
wine in some form has for centuries wine taken 
been highly appreciated as a gastro- ^omtime 
nomic accompaniment to food. I do immemorial, 
not, for an instant, attempt to deny it this position. 
Whether such employment of it is advantageous 
from a dietetic or physiological point of view as a 
rule of life, is at this moment altogether another 
question. I may not hesitate to say that, after a 
long and wide experience, I am still firmly con- 
vinced that the habitual use of wine, beer, or spirits 
is a physiological error, say, for nine- j^^ habitual 

teen persons out of twenty. In other usenotdis- 

cussed here* 
words, the great majority of the human 

race, at any age or of either sex, will enjoy better 



238 Food and Feeding. 

health, both of body and mind, and will live longer, 
without any alcoholic drinks whatever, than with 
habitual indulgence in their use, even although such 
use be what is popularly understood as quite mode- 
Occasional ""^te. But I do not aver that any par- 
indulgence, ticular harm results from the habit of 
now and then enjoying a glass of really fine pure 
wine — and, rare as this is, I do not think any other 
is worth consuming — ^just as one may occasionally 
enjoy a particularly choice dish ; neither the one nor 
the other, perhaps, being sufficiently innocuous or 
digestible for frequent, much less for habitual use. 
Then I am dispo^d to admit that there are some 
Some take persons — in the aggregate not a few — 
kislnTu* who may take small quantities of 
than others. genuine light wine or beer with very 
little appreciable injury. For these persons such 
drinks may be put in the category of luxuries per- 
missible within certain limits or conditions, and of 
such luxuries let tobacco-smoking be regarded as 
another example. No one probably is any better 
The effects for tobacco, although if indulged in 
vlry''a^s"he ^''^'^^ moderation, it has, for many, a 
individual. delightfully soothing and tranquillizing 
effect after the endless harassing and worrying 
incidents of a stirring life. Some indulge too freely, 
diminishing both their mental and digestive powers ; 
while others find it absolutely poisonous, and cannot 
inhale even a small quantity of the smoke without 
instantly feeling sick or ill. And some few indulge 



Wine and Smoke. Cautions. 22f) 

the moderate use of tobacco all their lives without 
any evil effects, at all events, that are perceptible to 
themselves or to others. 

Relative to these matters, every man ought to deal 
carefully and faithfully with himself, Each man 
watching rigorously the effects of the t^^l^'S^f^ 
smallest license on his mental and bodily himself, 
states, and boldly denying himself the use of a luxu- 
rious habit if he finds undoubted sign of harm arising 
therefrom. And he must perform the difficult task 
with a profound conviction that his judgment is very 
prone to bias on the side of indulgence, since the 
luxurious habit is so agreeable, aqd to refrain there- 
from, in relation to himself and to the present opinion 
of society, so difficult. Be it remarked, however, that 
the opinion of society is notably and rapidly changing 
relative to the point in question. 

Having premised thus much as to what is abso- 
liitely best, I will now deal, in the spirit 

^ XN ever taKc 

of compromise, with things as they are ; wine or spirit 
and let it be understood that it is in this 
sense that I deal with the subject. I have only now 
to say, first, that wine, in relation to dinner, should 
be served during the repast ; it should never be 
taken, in any form or under any circumstances, 
before, that is, on an empty stomach, and also is not 
desirable after the meal is finished. Regarded from 
a gastronomic point of view alone, nothing should 
appear afterwards except a small glass of cognac 
and coffee. The post-prandial habit of drinking 



240 Food and Feeding. 

glass after glass even of the finest growths of the 

Gironde, or of the most mature or mellow shipments 

from Oporto, is doubtless a pleasant, but, in the end, 

for many persons a costly indulgence. 

Secondly, whatever wine is given should be the 

„,. . ,. most sound and unsophisticated of its 
Wme should ^ 

be the kind which can be procured. The host 

produce of had far better produce only a bottle or 
the grape, j.^^ ^j- gQ^^d bourgeois wine from Bor- 
deaux — and most excellent wine maybe found under 
such a denomination — with no pretence of a mere- 
tricious title, or other worthless finery about it, from 
a list of fictitious blends with pretentious labels 

supplied by an advertising cheap wine 
a.nd be 
honestly cha- house. I could only speak in terms of 

racterized. contempt and disgust, did I not feel 
pity for the deluded victims, of the unscrupulous 
use of the time-honoured and historical titles which 
advertisers shamelessly flaunt on bottles of worthless 
compounds by means of showy labels, in lists and 
pamphlets of portentous length, and by placards 
sown broadcast through the country. So that one 
may buy " Lafite " or " Margaux " — " Chambertin " or 
" Nuits " — or even " '70 Port " — at a village store ! No 
terms can be too strong to characterize such trade. 
If fine wines of unquestionable character and 

vintage are to be produced, there are 
possess only two ways of possessing them : one, 

by finding some wine-merchant of long 
standing and reputation, who will do an applicant 



Wine Questions discussed. i\i 

the favour to furnish them, and the price must be 
large for quality and age. We may be certain that 
such a one will never advertise ; no man who really 
has the grands vins of esteemed vintages in his cellar 
need spend a shilling in advertisements, for he 
confers a favour on his customer by parting with 
such stock. But better and more satisfactory is it 
to obtain from time to time a piece or two of wine, 
of high character and reputed vintage, when they are 
to be had, just fit to bottle, and lay them down for 
years until ripe for use. Commencing thus in early 
life, a man's cellar becomes in twenty or thirty years 
a possession of interest and value, and he can always 
produce, at his little dinners, for those who can 
appreciate it, something curiously fine, and free, at 
all events, from the deleterious qualities of new and 
fictitious wines. 

Briefly, the rule, by general gastronomic consent, 
for those who indulge in the luxury of ,, . . 
wine, is to offer a glass of light pale of wines at 
sherry or dry Sauterne after soup; a 
delicate Rhine wine or Moselle after fish ; a glass 
of good Bordeaux with the joint of mutton ; the 
same, or champagne — dry, but with some true vinous 
character in it, and not the tasteless spirit and water 
which not long since enjoyed an evanescent popu- 
larity as absolute brut — during the entries ; the 
best red wine in the cellar, Bordeaux or Burgundy, 
with the grouse or other roast game ; and — but this 
ought to suffice, even for that exceptional individual 



242 Food and Feeding. 

who is supposed to be little, if at all, injured by 
" moderate " potations. With the ice or dessert, a 
glass of full-flavoured but matured champagne, or a 
liqueur, may be served ; but at this point dietetic ad- 
monitions are out of place, and we have already sacri- 

„ . ficed to luxury. But it is not to be for- 

One wine 

during a gotten that both temperance and digestion 

are favoured by the habit of avoiding 
much mixing of red and white, or indeed of any 
wines at our meals. Men have discovered for them- 
selves that choice dry champagne, although of high 
character, developed by seven to ten years, or some- 
times longer residence in bottle, and the finest growth 
of Bordeaux matured to perfection, however delightful 
each may prove itself in passing over the palate, 
often quarrel sadly when they arrive in the stomach 
below. Hence the somewhat modem, and certainly 
prudent course, which many now follow, viz. to drink 
either the one or the other wine throughout the 
dinner, and to limit one's self to that only. And this 
makes it necessary to supply, as before intimated, 
the best produce of the cellar during the whole 
course of the dinner, instead of reserving it, as in 
days of yore, for consumption afterwards. 

The value of a cigarette at the moment a meal has 
Tobacco been completed, consists in the fact that 

after eating : ^fter the first whiff or two of its fragrance 
the palate soon ceases to demand either food or 
wine. After smoke the power to appreciate good 
wine is lost, and no judicious host cares to open a 



Coffee and Tobacco. 243 

fresh bottle from his best bin for the smoker, nor 
will the former be blamed by any man for a dis- 
inclination to do so. Moreover, tobacco ^n ally of 
is unquestionably an ally of temperance ; temperance : 
certainly it is so in the estimation of the gourmet. 
A relationship for him of the most perfect order is 
that which subsists between coffee and j^s relation 
fragrant smoke. While wine and tobacco *° coffee, 
are antipathetic, the one affecting injuriously all that 

is grateful in the other, the aroma of , , . 
° natural, and 

coffee " marries " perfectly with the per- widely 
fume of the finest leaf. Among the ^^ ^" 
Mussulmans this relationship is recognized to the 
fullest extent ; and also throughout the Continent 
the use of coffee, which is almost symbolical of 
temperate habits, is intimately associated with the 
cigarette or cigar. Only by the uncultured classes 
of Great Britain and of other northern nations, who 
appear to possess the most insensitive palates in 
Europe, have smoke and alcoholic drinks been closely 
associated. By such, tobacco and spirit have been 
sought chiefly as drugs, and are taken mainly for 
their effects on the nervous system — the easy but 
disastrous means of becoming stupid, besotted, or 
drunk. People of cultivated tastes, on the other 
hand, select their tobacco or their wines, not for 
their qualities as drugs, but for those subtler 
attributes of flavour and perfume, which exist often 
in inverse proportion to the injurious narcotic in- 
gredients ; which latter are as much as possible 



244 Food and Feeding. 

avoided, or are accepted chiefly for the sake of the 
former. 

Before quitting the subject of dining it must be 
Water at said that, after all, those who drink 

meals. water with that meal probably enjoy the 

pleasure of eating more than those who drink wine. 
They have generally better appetite and digestion, 
and they certainly preserve an appreciative palate 
longer than the wine-drinker. Water is so important 
an element to them, that they are not indifferent to 
its quality and source. As for the large class which 
cannot help itself in this matter, the importance of an 
ample supply of uncontaminated water cannot be 
overrated. The quality of that furnished to the 
The London population of London is happily now 
supply. good, but the only mode of storing it 

possible to many often renders it dangerous to 
health. Disease and intemperance are largely pro- 
duced by neglect in relation to these two matters. 
It would be invidious, perhaps, to say what particular 
question of home or foreign politics could be spared, 
that Parliament might discuss a matter of such 
pressing urgency as a pure water supply; or to 
specify what particular part of our enormous expendi- 
ture, compulsory and voluntary, might be better 
Purest employed than at present, by placing a 

natural constant and ample supply of it within 

waters, «. r ^ 

plain and easy reach of the poorest consumer in 

town and country. But for those who can 

afford to buy bottled waters, no purer exists in any 



Pure Natural Water Best. 245 

natural sources than that of our own Malvern springs, 
and these are aerated and provided in the form of 
soda and potash waters of unexceptionable quality. 

Pure distilled water, however, re-supplied with 
atmospheric air by a special process, and Aerated dis- 
then well charged with carbonic acid *'"^^ water, 
gas, is now furnished at so reasonable a cost in 
London as to be within the reach of persons of 
moderate means. It is almost needless to say that 
so prepared, water is absolutely pure, and nothing 
more safe or wholesome can be employed for drink- 
ing purposes. Certainly it is wholly unnecessary to 
import waters for the use of the table from foreign 
sources, unless medical qualities are particularly 
desired by the consumer. No foreign waters of any 
kind whatever, from any source, are so pure or half 
so cheap, or so easy to obtain as the distilled waters 
now referred to, which are prepared here at home at 
our very doors ; and none are so safe and so useful 
for the consumer in relation to health, whatever 
the advertiser may affirm respecting their value in 
gout, etc. 

Then the great makers of soda and potash waters 
in this country supply a thoroughly 
trustworthy article. Each bottle con- potash 
tains a known quantity, from five to 
fifteen grains of the salt, the water being obtained 
from their own artesian wells, or other equally pure 
sources, so that English aerated waters are unrivalled 
in excellence. On the other hand, the foreign siphon. 



246 Food and Feeding. 

made, as it often is, at any chemist's shop, and from 
the water of the nearest source, is a very uncertain pro- 
Travellers duction. Probably our travelling fellow- 
bv^SinSne countrymen owe their attacks of fever 
bad water. more to drinking water contaminated 
by sewage matter than to the malarious influences 
which pervade certain districts of southern Europe. 
The only water safe for the continental traveller to 
drink is a natural mineral table water, and such is 
now always procurable throughout Europe, except in 
very remote or unfrequented places.* In the latter 

.... circumstances no admixture of wine or 

Adding wine 

makes it no spirit counteracts the poison in tainted 
water, and makes it safe to drink, as 

people often delight to believe ; but the simple pro- 
cess of boiling it renders it perfectly 

Boil it , , ° . , 

harmless ; and this result is readily 

attained in any locality by making weak tea to be 
taken hot or cold ; in the latter case, it is more palat- 
able, with a little lemon infused, than alone ; or in 
making toast-water, barley-water, lemonade, etc. 
The table waters now so largely imported into this 
country from Germany and France, contain a con- 
siderable proportion of mineral matter in solution, 

• Throughout France, St. Galmier j in Germany, Seltzers or 
Appollinaris ; in Austria and Bohemia, Gieshiibel, are always 
obtainable, being the table waters of most repute, in each case 
respectively, of the country itself. In all chief places in Italy, 
Appollinaris, Seltzers, or St. Galmier, are supplied by the hotels. 
In Spain these are rarely at present to be had, but the alterna- 
tives recommended are easily obtained. 



Mineral Waters Safest abroad. 247 

and while they are wholesome as regards freedom 
from organic impurities, are, of course, less perfect for 
daily use than absolutely pure waters, such as those 
above referred to. Useful as they are or drink 
for the English when travelling abroad, JJ^i^eral 
because the ordinary water supplied in water, 
foreign cities is so frequently contaminated, they are 
all far inferior to our home-prepared aerated, distilled 
waters for all purposes of consumption. Vaunted 
frequently as possessing certain medicinal proper- 
ties, this very fact ought to prohibit their constant 
use as dietetic agents, inasmuch as we do not require 
drugs as diet, but only as occasional correctives, 
which can be added to pure water (for example, 
fifteen or twenty grains of bicarbonate of soda or 
potash) when required. Among them the principal 
are natural Seltzers, Appollinaris, and St. Galmier — 
of this latter some sources are inferior to others, the 
best appearing now to be chiefly retained for Paris — 
being perhaps among the most satisfactory within 
our reach. A dash of lemon juice, and waters with 
a thin cutting of the peel, form some- lemon juice, 
times an agreeable addition, especially to our well- 
made soda, seltzer, or potash waters ; and nothing 
keeps the palate cleaner or in better order for appre- 
ciating food. I am compelled to say . . .^. 
° ^ . but none with 

that the sweet compounds and fruity sugar fit for 
. . ... , , dinner drink, 

juices which not very long ago were 

produced, and inordinately puffed, as dinner drinks, 

and apparently in competition with wine, are rarely 



248 Food and Feeding. 

wholesome adjuncts to a dinner. Such liquids rapidly 
develop indigestible acid products in the stomachs 
of many persons ; while for all, the sipping of sweet 
fluids, effervescing or otherwise, during a meal tends 
to diminish appetite, as well as the faculty of 
appreciating good cookery. If wine is refused, let 
the drink which accompanies dinner be of pure 
water — with a sparkle of gas in it, and a slight dash 
of vegetable acid in it if you will — but in obedience 
both to gastronomic and dietetic laws, let it be free 
from sugar. No doubt there are exceptional circum- 
stances in which fruity juices, if not very sweet, can 
The water- be taken freely. Thus I have rarely 
me^s^hot quaffed more delicious liquor at dinner 
countries. jn the warm autumn of southern Europe, 

notably in Spain, than that afforded by ample slices 
of a water-melon, which fill the mouth with cool 
fragrant liquid ; so slight is the amount of solid 
matter, that it only just serves to contain the 
abundant delicate juices of the fruit grown in those 
climates. Here some saccharine matter is present, 
but it exists in very small proportion, and in its most 
digestible form. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

In order to arrange a dinner some practical acquaintance with 
food is necessary — Also of the season at which various 
kinds are in perfection — The art of menu writing — The 
scheme or elementary outline of a dinner — Menus should 
be written in French — Examples of simple menus for each 
month in the year — Some in English, chiefly in French, for 
comparison — Menus of higher character — Further remarks 
on the order in which dishes should be presented — And on 
other matters arising out of the subject. 

The remark is frequently heard from the domestic 
head of an English family, the lady of Alleged 
the house-who, although in easy ^j^Sf„Ja 
circumstances and much occupied in menu, 
good society, does not care to delegate her authority 
to a skilled professional housekeeper — that nothing 
puzzles her more than the composition of menus for 
the inevitable dinner parties. She feels almost as 
ready, or rather as unready, as she would be if called 
upon to compose a sonnet or a symphony. Her 
husband, whose counsels are so valuable, or at all 
events are so promptly furnished on almost all other 
topics, utterly fails in his attempt to offer a suggestion 
now. Hence she meets her cook on terms which 



250 Food and Feeding. 

preclude exercise of choice or criticism ; and the 
latter becomes mainly the author of the programme. 
But a leading confectioner or dinner purveyor may 
also be consulted, who supplies the suggestion desired, 
sending in a dish or two in consequence ; and a suit- 
able congruity is devoutly hoped for as the result. 
At all events, one may be assured that the menu will 
be sufficiently comprehensive; and there is even a 
probability that it will contain the latest novelty — 
well, let us say — in gastronomic nomenclature ; since 
that of the imported dish itself may, perhaps, not be 
so easily or truthfully affirmed. 

I venture, then, to offer a few hints relative to that 
Practical particular form of literary composition 

?.'°*? °?*t, which is involved in the so-called art of 
art 01 menu 

writing." menu writing. Were it not that the art is 

really a very simple one, I should not risk the responsi- 
bility of offering advice. But it is necessary at the 
outset to state, that in order to insure success in this 
particular department of letters, some little know- 
ledge of the subject, namely, food, its nature and 
principal forms, is really necessary. 

First, then, the author of a menu must have a 

,, ^, moderate acquaintance with the varied 

Must know ^ 

the foods materials which form the natural pro- 

Itl SCcLSOtl 

duce of any given season throughout 
the year. Otherwise, we may meet with a proposal 
to serve Scotch salmon at Christmas, wild duck at 
Easter, oysters and grouse at Midsummer, asparagus 
at Michaelmas, and tender peas in November. I 



How to arrange a Menu. 251 

don't say that it is absolutely impossible to procure 
some of these things, more especially as the electric 
light may ultimately render us, for gardening pur- 
poses — and who knows for what else ! — independent 
of sun and season ; but at present most of those 
delicacies, like others which might be mentioned, 
are, at the periods named, practically unattainable. 
To be serious, it is necessary that a throughout 
housekeeper should know what are the the year, 
best products of the season, both of the animal and 
the vegetable world, in every month of the year. 
A pleasant stroll through Covent Garden once a 
week, and an occasional call on the fishmonger 
and poultryman, with frequent reference to some 
good manual of cookery, containing a kind of 
Almanack des Gourmands, will furnish a fair ac- 
quaintance with what is really an interesting branch 
of knowledge. See table of fish in season, Appendix, 
p. 293. 

Next, it is necessary to have a simple but clear 
notion of the foundation or outline, the g^g^y dinner 

pattern or " archetype " — if I may use should be 
'^ arranged on 

a scientific term of rather lofty signifi- a certain 

cance — on which every dinner, however '' *°' 

great or however small, must be planned, as the 

groundwork of its construction. Certain primary 

elements are essential to the structure of a dinner ; 

shorn of these there may without doubt be a meal, 

and indeed not a bad one of some kind ; but there 

can be no dinner. Thus, a man may satisfy his 



252 Food and Feeding. 

hunger with a large plate of meat, piled with sup- 
plementary vegetables, and flanked by the attendant 
bread, and greatly enjoy his meal, but this is not 

A » ■.- »r dinner in any technical sense of the 
A series 01 ^ 

dishes, each word, and cannot be so regarded : it is 
having some . 

relation to Simply a plate of meat and vegetables, 
e nex , jj. Q^gj.g j^^ change in form, or kind, or 

flavour, and no slight interval of rest for the palate ; 
it is a single movement, not a complete symphony — 
an " andante " in common time, but wanting the 
preliminary introduction, and without the bright and 
sparkling " minuet " to follow, which in its turn 
leads to the " grand finale ; " while this in its course 
may present a plaintive minor passage, giving force 
and splendour to the resumption of the major key 

before the close. Thus it is that certain 
so as to make 

an agreeable constituent parts are necessary, one lend- 
ing force to another by help of relief or 
contrast ; the attainment of perfection through variety 
being as essential to the idea of a dinner as to that 
of a complete musical composition. Bearing this 
law in view, and maintaining the characters de- 
manded, we may produce a dinner of Spartan 
simplicity, or may swell it to proportions which 
should satisfy a Lucullus ; but the design or arche- 
type is still to be discernible throughout. 

A dinner to be complete within moderate limits 
should contain, in ideal terms — 

A complete !• An introductory or preliminary dish or 

dinner scheme two, as soup, or fish, or both. 



System to be followed. 253 



2. A substantial dish of meat, or filce de \ Exchangeable for 

..j,_.._^ ^ ^...r.. _ , ^;^_ \ the following if 

I desired : 



rdsistance, to satisfy a keen appetite. 



3. A choice dish or two of delicate flavour 

for those who have little appetite for the 
preceding (or No. 2), as well as for those 
who have, but are able also to reserve 
a place for the gratification of taste. 

4. A dish of marked flavour and character 

easily digestible, inviting to the palate ; 
either a roast or grill. 

5. A dish of choice vegetables by itself, with 

or without an attractive specimen of | 
smoked or cured flesh in some form. 

6. A sweet. 

7. A savoury dish. 



Not absolutely 
essential ; or 
may take the 
place of the sub- 
stantial dish. 



Not all abso- 
lutely essential. 



which may 
be varied 
in detail 
according 
to circum- 
stances, 



Let the foregoing ideas be represented in a concrete 
form, either as simple, and applicable to 
one or two persons ; or with additions 
of a luxurious kind, for the purpose of 
providing the variety necessary when 
there are several guests. It may be laid 
down as a self-evident axiom, that while two persons 
agreeing in their tastes may dine well on three, four 
or at most five dishes, a larger number or choice of 
dishes must be provided to meet the differing tastes 
of ten or twelve persons, not one of whom individually 
may require more than the former. Thus — 



;. Introductory or 


Soup 


Soup 


Soups 


Preliminary 


or 


and 


and 


Dishes. 


Fish. 


Fish. 


Choice of fish, 



254 



Food and Feeding. 



Substantial Dish 
— releviox remove. 



3. Choice Dishes ; 
entries. 



Joint or other portion of meat ; tender 
and juicy ; not necessarily roast : 
to be well garnished, and attended 
with simply cooked vegetables. 



An entrie of some 
kind ; one of fish 
may come here 
if soup only were 
taken before the 
meat. 



Two entries — 
rarely more — 
simple or luxu- 
rious, according 
to the entertain- 
ment desired. 



4. Savoury Entremets, 

Here should be 
offered the dish of 
highest flavourwhich 
reaches the table ; 
as a well-cured ham, 
or a highly-smoked 
ox-tongue, or rarely 
a mild curry. 

A choice vegetable 
(which may some- 
times precede, but 
will mostly follow, 
the roast). 

5. The Roast. 



The best in season carefully cooked, 
and served by itself. 



6. Sweet Entremets. 

7. Savoury "Bout." 



Dessert. 



Mostly a bird, as a fine capon ; game 
when in season ; attended or followed 
by a salad. Sometimes, rarely 
venison. 

One, or several, according to the guests. 

Ranges from a morsel of cheese to a 
perfectly made souffli, or beignet of 
Parmesan ; or may consist of caviare, 
dried fish, fish-roes, devilled biscuit, 
grilled mushroom, etc. 



Illustrations to follow. 255 

The essentials, then.of a dinner reduced te?m'°^^^' 

to its lowest term are — essential 

for dinner. 

I. Preliminary . . Soup only: or fish only, if soup dis- 
agrees, or is objected to. Both, if 
desired. 

3 and 3. The Meat Meat alone ; or fish in its place, if soup 
AND entrie. only has been taken; or the entrde 

alone if lighter food than meat is 
preferred. 

4. A Roast .... A roast bird of some kind. 

5, 6, anci 7. Entremets. A vegetable ; sweet, or savoury — one 
of each only, or two only, as preferred. 

In order to illustrate the foregoing remarks, I shall 

now furnish a few examples of small 

, , ,. ... ., Examples 

but complete dmners ; which are easily of moderate 

reducible, however, to the " lowest term," fofiolj^ f", 

by the omission of a dish or two on the f^^j" """>* 
•^ , in the year. 

principle laid down. In each menu a 
choice of soups, fish, entries, roast and sweet entremets, 
are given ; constituting, in fact, the menus of two 
dinners. Such a double menu is sketched from the 
materials most in season for each month Menu for 
in the year, making twenty-four dinners ^^^ month, 
in all. I have ventured to do so because the sugges- 
tion has been so frequently made that practical 
illustration of the principles advocated should be 
appended, and also because it appears possible that 
a few examples may, perhaps, be of some slight 



256 Food and Feeding. 

service to young or inexperienced persons, if any 
such there be. I wholly disclaim any idea of furnish- 
ing programmes here for elaborate dinners, or " state " 
occasions ; and only intend to suggest simple products 
which any good or "thorough good" cook may 
furnish properly, at all events with a little preliminary 
practice in some instances. Perhaps the truth is 
scarcely yet sufficiently recognized that the quality 

^ .. , , or character of a dinner does not depend 

Quality to be 

sought, not on the numbesr, the complexity, the cost, 

P T- Qj. even on the rarity of the component 

dishes. Let these be few in number, and be simple in 

composition ; but if the material itself is the best of 

its kind, well cooked and tastefully presented, the 

dinner may rank with the best, and is certain to 

please. 

I have long been forced to the conclusion that 

Menus menus, as a rule, should be written 

wlttVk. altogether in the French language. So 

French. many French culinary terms have been 

naturalized, so many more are almost if not quite 

untranslatable, that the endeavour to write menus in 

English invariably results in an objectionable mixture 

of the two languages, resembling a mongrel patois. 

As examples, those of the first three months and 

those of the last month shall be written as far as 

possible in English, and the remainder will be given 

in French. In some of them the special dish of 

vegetable is served before the roast, in which case 

it will be marked by itself as a " Legume," and the 



Menus in English. 



257 



sweets will be described as "Entremets sitcre's." 
When the vegetable is placed after the roast, both 
it and the succeeding sweets will be ranked together 
simply as "Entremets." 

Some find it difficult to select for each species 
of English fish its appropriate name in French to 
adopt in a menu. A full list is given, each word with 
its gender (see Appendix, p. 292). 

The menus for January, February, and March are 
written in English as far as possible. 



JANUARY. 

Soup Brunoise. Consomm^, with Ital- 

ian pastes. 

Fish Fillets of Sole k la Crimped Cod and 

Cardinal. Oyster Sauce. 

RelevS or^ Roast Leg of Mutton, with pur^e of Onions and 
Remove / Haricots (k la Bretonne). 

Entree ... Sweetbreads k la Braised Ox-tongue and 

Financifere. Spinach. 

Roast Pheasant. Capon stuffed with 

fresh truffles.* 
Vegetable Seakale and Butter Sauce. 

Entremets Iced Coffee, or Vanille 
Souffle. 



SoufHd 



of Bloater 
Toast. 



Meringues aux Confi- 
tures. 

Curry of Shrimps on 
Fried Croutes. 



* Fresh French truffles are in perfection in December and 
January, to which last-named month, fruitful in all good things, 
this dish might well be relegated ; but are still in season 
through February. Fair English truffles, notably inferior, how- 
ever, to the French black truffle, may be found in Covent 
Garden a month or two later. See also remarks respecting 
them, pp. 270, 271. 

R 



258 



Food and Feeding. 



Soup 
Fish , 



Relev^ or"! 

Remove J 

Entree ... 



Vegetable 
Roast 



Sweet En-I 

TREMETSi 



Soup . 



PEBKUABY. 

Paysanne. 

Fillets of Turbot k la 

ravigote. 
Braised neck cutlets of 
Haricot of 
Croquettes of Oysters, 
or Scalloped Oysters.* 
Stewed Celery in gravy. 
Wild Duck, Sauce Bi- 

garade.t 

Apricots, Peaches, or 

Pears with Rice. 

Caviare on toast. 



Purde of White Hari- 
cots, or Lentils. 
Broiled Herring and 
Mustard Sauce. 
Veal, and Macedoine or 
Vegetables. 
Mutton Cutlets k la 
Soubise. 
Chicory in gravy. 
Hare or Snipe. 

Baba with Rum. 

Slices of Cod roe on 
toast, devilled. 



MAECH. 
Croute au pot. 



Fish Boiled Salmon, Sauce 

Hollandaisewith capers. 



ReLEv£ or\ 
Remove / 

Entree ... 



Vegetable 



Broiled Steak from the 

fillet, Maltre d'Hotel 

Sauce. 

Quenelles of Rabbit, 

purde of Celery. 

Stewed Mushrooms. 



Purde of Turnips, or 

of Artichokes. 
Red Mullets, baked.J 

Pork Chop, Sauce 
Robert. 



Timbale of Macaroni 

k la JNIilanaise. 

Early French Beans, 

tossed in Butter. 



* Another mollusc, the true '' scallop " [Pecten jiuiximus), may 
be substituted for oysters as an entrie for occasional change in 
the spring season. It was formerly largely consumed, being 
originally cooked in the manner which is now commonly adopted 
for the oyster, when presented as above described. Long after 
the scallops, oysters came to be esteemed, and, being cooked 
in the same way, were therefore said to be " scalloped." The 
original " scallops " may still be had at our fishmongers', and 
when thinly sliced and so dressed, are by no means to be 
altogether neglected. 

t See p. 154. X Seep. 192. 



Menus in French. 



259 



MAKCH — continued. 



Roast Guinea Fowl, with Cress 

or young Salad. 
Sweet En-'* Spring Tart (Rhubarb). 

TREMETSj 

Herring, or Herring 
Roe on Toast. 



Early young Chickens 

farced. 
Charlotte Russe, with 

pistachios. 
Patties of dressed Lob- 
ster au gratin. 



From this 


place the menus are written in French, 




APEIL. 


• 


POTAGE 


Printanier. 


Consomm^ au Riz, k 
I'ltalienne. 


POISSON ... 


Truite grillde k la Hol- 
landaise. 


Eperlans frits. 


Releve 


Aloyau braisd k la Ni- 
veraise. 


Noisettes de Mouton k 
la Parisienne. 


Entree ... 


Souffldes de Jambon. 


Petits Souffldes de Vo- 
laille au fond d'arti- 
chauts. 


Legumes ... 
R6t 


Asperges d' 
Poulet et Salade. 


Argenteuil. 

Canetons. 


Entremets\ 

SUCR^S j' 


Bavaroise au Choco- 
lat. 


Creme au Caramel. 




Petits Souffles au Par- 


Anges k cheval. 




mesan. 





MAY. 

Pot AGE Bonne femme. 

POISSON ... Filets de Maquereau 
grinds, Maitred'Hotel. 

RELEvi; Selle d'Agneau braisde, 

Entree ... Crfenie de Volaille aux 

truffes. 
Legumes ... Carottes k I'Allemande. 

Rot Cailles, bardds. 

Entremets) Crime frite aux amandes 
SUCR^S ■ / am^res. 

CEufs de Pluvier. 



Crdgy. 
Sole k la Colbert. 

Macddoine de Ldgumes. 
Tfite de Veau en 

Tortue. 

Petits pois k la Fla- 

mande. 

Levraut. 

Parfait au chocolat. 

Canapds de Crevettes. 



26o 



Food and Feeding. 



JUNE. 

POTAGE Pot-au-feu. 

PoiSSON ... Saumon de Severn tail- 
lad^, sauce au fe- 
nouil ; ou sauce verte 
froide. 

Releve Fricandeau de 

Entree ... Chaudfroid de Cailles. 

Rot Canards auxpetitspois. 

Legumes ... Asperges froides en 
salade. 



Bisque d'Ecrevisses.* 

Raie au Beurre Noir, 
ou sauce au c3.pres. 



Entremets 



Purde de groseilles 
glacde. 

Kari d'homarden aspic. 



Veau k I'Oseille. 

Quenelles d'homard en 
belle vue. 

Oison, Salade. 

Petits pois k la Fran- 
5aise. 

Nougat k la Crfeme. 
Croutes k I'Indienne. 



JULY. 

POTAGE Pur^e de Pois (St. Ger- 
main). 

PoiSSON ... Carrelets frites. 

RELEvi Epaule d'Agneau k 

Entree ... Bouchdes k la Reine en 
belle vue. 

Rot Chevreuil. 

Legumes ... Salade aux Tomates. 



EntremetsI 
sucr6s ] 



Gel^e au Kirsch, gamie 
de Cerises. 

Canapds d'Anchois. 



Purde de Pommes de 
terre aux poireaux. 

Aigrefin farcie au four. 

la purde d'Artichauts. 

Poulet k I'Estragon. 

Pluviers. 

Haricots verts.ou pana- 
ches, sautds au beurre. 

Bavaroise aux fraises. 

Petits Filets de Sau- 
mon au diable. 



* A bisque is understood to be a well-flavoured and garnished 
purie of crayfish, as above ; but the same treatment of prawns, 
of lobster, and also of crab, produces excellent bisques. Some 
apply the teim to certain /ar/^j of game, at the risk, perhaps, of 
rendering the meaning of the word uncertain. 



Menus in French. 



261 



AUO-UST. 

PoTAGE Purde de Chicor^e, ou 

d'Epinards. 

POISSON ... Sole Frite, citron; ou 

Sauce verte. 

Relev£ Poitrine de Mouton k la Chicorde.* 

Entree ... Filets de Caneton gar- 

nis en aspic. 
Rot Dindonneau. 

Legumes ... F^ves de Marais k la 
Poulette. 

^ sSS^I Macddoine des Fruits. 
" Dressed Crab." 



Consommd au Maca- 
roni, ou au Vermi- 
ceMe. 

Barbue, Sauce aux 
Crevettes. 



Soufiflds de Veau aux 

petits pois, en aspic. 

Coq de Bruy^re 

(" grouse "). 

Salade de Ldgumes. 



Crfeme aux framboises. 
Coquilles k la Jure. 





SEPTEMBER. 




POTAGE 


Crfemed'OrgeklaHol- 
landaise.f 


Julienne. 


POISSON ... 


Aigrefin grille k la 
ravigote.J 


Sole k la Normande. 


Relev£ 


Haricot de Chevreuil. 


"Beefsteak Pudding 
k I'Anglaise. 


Entree ... 


Filets de Poulet aux 


Blanquette de Ris 




Truffes, Sauce Supreme. 


d'AgneauklaToulouse. 


Rot 


Perdreaux. 


Poularde au cresson. 


Entremets 


Chou-fleur 


au gratin. 




Charlotte aux pommes. 


Omelette soufflde. 




Croustades de la mer- 


Champignons grillds. 




luche fumde. 





* An excellent dish, first braised, then cooled ; finished with 
bread crumbs in the oven, or on the gridiron, and garnished 
with a purde of endive, or of spinach, or with tomatoes. The 
trimmed neck similarly treated makes a more substantial remove. 

t The distinctive and agreeable addition, besides the little 
quenelles of fowl, in this soup, is the handful of sorrel leaves, 
which are still in season during this month. 

X Merluche is generally used in this country to denote 
" haddock," but the French word merely designates any dried 
fish. Aigrefin, or aiglefin, is the true equivalent for haddock. 



262 



Food and Feeding. 



OCTOBEE. 



Purfe de Tomates. 



PoTAGE Pur^e de Volaille (k la 

Reine). 

PoissoN ... Filets de Barbue Frits. Dorde, Sauce aux 

huitres. 

Relev£ Filet de Boeuf k la Milanaise. 

Entree ... Civet de Lifevre. | Fricassde de Poulet. 

Legume ... Artichauts au Beurre. 

Rot Faisan. 

Entremets'! Omelette au confiture. 
SUCRES / 



Canapes de Jambon. 



" Black Game." 

Beignets de pommes, 
etc. 

Rissolettes k la Caire. 



NOVEMBER. 

PoTAGE Pur^e de Gibier. 

PoiSSON ... Sole au vin blanc, gar- 
nie aux huitres. 

RELEvi Selle de Mouton 

Entr]£e ... Faisan bouillijk la purde 
de C^leri. 

Rot BdcassesouB^cassines. 

Entremets Foie Gras en Aspic, 
Salade Macddoine. 

Savarin. 
Croutes au chasseur. 



Soupe aux Choux. 

Merlan griUd, Sauce au 
Capres. 

Rotie, "Laver."* 

Salmi de Perdreaux. 

Oie. 

Pommes de Terre Sau- 
tdes au Beurre. 

Meringues k la Crfeme. 

Petites Coquilles de 
Macaroni au.Gratin. 



* Laver is in season from October to March, and consists of 
two native marine plants, Porphyra vulgaris and Ulva latissima. 
It is unknown in France, and recognized in few of our own 
cookery books. A most excellent adjunct to roast mutton. 
Let it soak in two fresh waters, about an hour in each, to get 
rid of the salt ; then put it in a saucepan with some hot water, 
and simmer until quite soft and mucilaginous ; dress it as 
spinach, with butter, or with a little stock, and a dash of lemon 
juice ; serve hot. 



Christinas Menu, English. id^i 

The last menu is given in English. 





DECEMBEE. 






{Christmas Dinners.) 


Soup 


Consomme, with Italian 
pastes. 


Oyster. 


Fish 


Turbot, HoUandaise 
sauce with capers. 


Brill and Tartare 
Sauce. 


Relev£ orl 
Remove / 


Turkey stuffed with Chestnuts, or fresh Truffles. 
Fillet of Beef, Horse-radish Sauce. 


Entree ... 


Souffld of Fowl, Sauce 
with fresh Truffles. 


Westphalian Goose 
Breast with Winter 
Spinach. 


Roast 


Game in Season. 


Entremets 


Spinach in gravy. 


Stewed Celery. 




Plum Pudding, Brandy 
Sauce. 


Mince Pies. 
Chartreuse of Oranges. 




Welsh Rarebit. 


Devilled Biscuit. 



Eight more menus follow here, in French, requiring 

for 'their proper execution a first-class „ 

'^ * Menus m 

cook. Two are for winter, two for spring, French of 

and four for the autumn, as illustrations ^ 
of more finished dishes than those previously given ; 
all of which, although excellent and typical com- 
binations, meriting the highest care and talent 
when available, are also within the reach of most 
middle-class households where an interest in cookery 
exists. 



264 



Food and Feeding. 



DECEMBEK AITO JANXrAEY. 

Huttres. 



POTAGE 


Consommfe k la Royale. 


Mulligatawny claire. 


POISSON ... 


Filets de Sole h. la 
chevreuse.* 


Filets de Sole k la 
Villeroy.t 


RELEVi; 


Selle de Venaison du 
Forgt noir, " Rey 
Riicken," rotie k la 
Vieiine. { 


Filets-mignons debcEuf 
h. la Pompadour. 


Entree ... 


Petits souffles de Vola- 
ille, Supreme k la 
Perigueux. 


CrSme de Faisan aux 
truffes. 




Jambon brais^e en 
Bourgogne.§ 


Langue de Boeuf 
brais^e. § 


Legume ... 


Asperges d' 


Argenteuil. 


R6t 


Cailles Bardies. 


Becasse sur croute. 


Entremets 


Truffes fralches k la 
Serviette. II 


Petits Aspics au foie 
gras. 




Pouding k la Nessel- 
rode glac^. 


Pouding k la Diplo- 
mate. 




Petits bouts du Kari complet.T 



* Dubois, p. 520. 

t Dubois, p. 522. 

X May be obtained from one or two German houses during 
the winter months direct from Black Forest in excellent 
condition. 

§ See p. 1 10, et seg. 

II Clean well ; simmer in water with little sherry added, half 
an hour. Serve hot, covered in the folds of a napkin. 

1 A miniature curry. Each cooked in a small porcelain shell ; 
eight or ten may be made from a plover or from a brace of 
snipe, each gai-nished with little bits of chopped gherkins and 
sweet chutnee, surrounded with a border of rice properly boiled, 
served hot ; the contents of each only amounting to two or three 
mouthfuls. Little shells, made to stand the fire, may be found 
in varied forms at Goode's in South Audley Street. 



French Menus. 



265 



MAY. 

POTAGE Consomm^ k la Jacque- 
line.* 

PoiSSON ... Truite au court bouillon. 

Relev£ ... Filet de boeuf k la 
Chantilly. 

ENTRilE ... Ris de Veau k la Mar- 
silly. 

R6t Ortolans auxcroutes,ou 

Canetons. 

Entremets 



Purde d'Asperges. 

Filets de Sole k la 
Chevreuse. 

Gigot de Mouton braisd 
k la Bercy. 

Boudins de Volaille k 
I'^carlate. 

Cailles ou Canetons. 



Haricots, verts ^tuvds. 



Riz kla cr^me framboise. 
Souffld au Gruyfere. 



Giteau de Plombi^res, 
Brochettes de Homard. 





SEPTEMBER. 




POTAGE 


Purde de Levraut. 


Consomm^ de Volaille 
k I'Estragon. 


POISSON ... 


Sole k la Trouville. 


Quenelles de Merlan k 
la Montglas. 


Relev]^ ... 


Cotelettes de Veau, pi- 
qudes k la Soubise. 


Pointe de boeuf k la 
Flamande. 


Entree ... 


Mousseline de Volaille 
chaude. 


Filets mignons de pou- 
larde k la Montpensier. 


Rot 


" Grouse.'' 


Perdreaux. 


Entremets 


Fonds d'Articha 


uts k la moelle. 




Plombifere aux cdrises. 


G4teau bordelais. 




Croutes au foie-gras. 


Sardines au gratin. 



* Consommd of fowl, thickened with a liason of yolk of egg 
with cream, adding spring vegetables cut in dice. 



266 



Food and Feeding. 





OCTOBER. 




POTAGE 


Velours.* 


Consommd k la Nill- 
son.t 


POISSON ... 


Darnes de Saumon k la 
Matelote. 


Crfeme de Homard. 


Relev£ ... 


Noisettes de Veau aux 
champignons. 


Chateaubriand 1. la 
moelle. 


Entree ... 


Petites timbales de 
Volaille aux truffes. 


Filets de Caneton k la 
Pdrigueux. 


Rot 


Rible de Lifevre k la 
crfeme. 


Dindonneau farci. ' 


Entremets 


Stachys tuberata k la 
poulette.j 


Creme de topinam- 
bours. 




Giteau Fleury. 


Parfait au Nougat. 




Canapds de Provence. 


Petits Souffldesde mer- 
luchefumdesurcroutes. 



On looking through the foregoing menus, it may 
be observed that the most substantial dish has been 
placed next after the fish, and that it is followed by 
the entree, after which comes the "roast,"' which in 
its turn is followed by the choice vegetable served 
apart. Those who prefer the entrh before the sub- 
stantial dish, can so arrange it; but whenever the 
latter happens to be roasted, as may sometimes be 
the case, it interferes most undesirably, by juxta- 
position with the "roast" proper. This error may 
then be to some extent corrected by placing the 
choice vegetable between the two, i.e. before the 
" roast " proper instead of after it ; and this course 

* A smooth purie of the red part of the carrot ; the basis 
being a clear bouillon, thickened with tapioca. — Dubois. 
\ A consommi of fowl, elegantly garnished. — Dubois, p. 443. 
X See p. 176. 



Art in arranging Dishes. 267 

should be taken whenever the first-named change 
is made. 

In all cases, too, there should be a marked differ- 
ence in the material and culinary treat- Effects of 
ment of any two consecutive dishes ; contrast, 
thus it is obviously undesirable that one white (or 
brown) preparation should follow another ; a quenelle 
of veal, for example, after a boiled sole ; or that a 
salmi of game should precede a roast pullet. It may 
be observed that white and brown meats and sauces 
mostly alternate, that grills and braises contrast ; 
that a delicate white entree successfully introduces 
the roast, that when the latter is substantial, as a 
haunch of venison, or a saddle of mutton, the pre- 
ceding entrie may be less important ; and so on. 
As a rule, to which there are a few exceptions, the 
procession of dishes after the fish is from the sub- 
stantial to the more delicate ; after which the appetite 
is stimulated by contrasts. Thus, the p^oj-ggj i,y 
piquant flavour of the roast, with its steps from 
"taste of the fire," is welcome, being flavours to 
sometimes followed by the soft and sue- ^ P'quan . 
culent vegetable, the young peas or stewed celery, or 
the globe artichoke, preparing the palate for a slice 
of highly-cured ham, tongue, or Westphalian goose- 
breast, with a delicate scent of pure wood smoke. 
On the whole, perhaps, this latter is practically most 
welcome after the entrees, and before the choice 
vegetable preceding " the roast," the place of which 
is then last before the sweet. The final impression 



268 Food and Feeding. 

must, of course, be a savoury one, which the palate 

receives, being thus rendered "clean," prepared to 

rest — or perchance to relish the last glass of wine 

by the delicate savoury morsel which terminates 

the menu. 

I desire to ask special attention to the fact that 

Haveomitted numerous popular dishes have been 

familiar omitted — and purposely so — from these 

dishes, such menus, simply for the reason that they 

"turtle," are well known, and can therefore be 

soups," and adopted at pleasure by way of addition 

etc' to save ^'^ exchange. Thus, none of the joints, 

needless sada. as sirloins, rounds, haunches, 

menu 

writing ; saddles, loins, shoulders, etc., have been 

named, with perhaps a single exception only. Every- 
body is familiar with English joints, which have been 
on this account excluded from a list necessarily so 
restricted as the limits of only thirty-two menrcs 
demand. For the same reason, I have not included 
in them turtle in any form, nor curries ; nor such 
special soups as mock-turtle, mulligatawny, hodge- 
podge, split-pea,* giblet, water-souchets, and fish 
soups ; nor whitebait, nor the fresh-water fish, carp, 
tench, dace, pike, etc. ; nor among sweets, tarts, ices, 
sorbets, and the farinaceous puddings, custards, etc. ; 
nor have I named the preliminary oysters, which 

* Our common split-pea soup, wholesome and agreeable in 
winter, with dried mint and tiny croAtons, is wholly unknown in 
France ; the dried green peas, termed pais cassis, only are used 
for similar purposes there. 



Dishes omitted ; Reason given. 269 

may well be added during the season, September to 

April inclusive, as an additional luxury. My object 

has been to suggest a few of the leading smaller 

dishes of a comparatively simple and not expensive 

kind, and to place them in proper juxtaposition 

in relation to each other, so far as this has been 

possible, with the view of suggesting some little 

diversity in the dietary of our better middle-class 

tables. Almost every one also is more or less typical 

in its character, so that given the knowledge of 

preparing it, several minor varieties can be produced. 

At the same time, such dishes are un- jntroducinff 

pretentious, and do not demand the skill simple dishes 

less used 
of a rare expert ; yet, when really well than they 

executed, they offer results not to be 

surpassed by any, either in relation to refined tastes, 

or in wholesome and nourishing qualities, in relation 

to the powers of the stomach and the wants of the 

system. To the remark regarding an estimate of 

the expense just made, I admit two or, at most, 

three exceptions, of which the chapon _ , 

^ -^ Remarks on 

truif^ is the most obvious example, "chapon 

A , ■ . .J A. 4. truffe," 

And It IS not suggested, moreover, that 

this should be prepared at home, but obtained only 

during the season of fresh truffles from France ; 

stuffed on its native soil with native produce, it forms 

a very important addition to a dinner, and stamps 

it with a rare distinction. There is no difficulty in 

procuring truffled poultry of any size by rail direct 

from Paris, when the indulgence of a little extravagance 



270 Food and Feeding. 

is to be permitted ; but even this trouble is not 
necessary, since a few first-rate London poulterers 
import fresh truffles, and will furnish a fine Dorking 
fowl properly stuffed, the quantity used determining 
in any case the cost of the dish.* 

I have somewhere before said that the fresh truffle 
and upon i^ SO immeasurably superior to those 

truffles. preserved in bottles, that the latter 

appears to me scarcely worth eating, except for 
their agreeable nutty texture ; and, mainly by virtue 
of the law which operates through the associa- 
tion of ideas, for the memory of delicious flavour 
and subtle aroma, existing only when the truffle 
is fresh, as during its term of harvest, about ten or 
twelve weeks after the end of November. I refer, 
of course, only to the French growth, superior as 
it is by many degrees to our own, and to that 
of North Italy also.f For those who have not 

* No better names could be mentioned than those of Chevet, 
of the Palais Royal, and Bailey, of Mount Street, Grosvenor 
Square. 

The French truffle — truffe noir, is a subterraneous fungus, of 
the species " Tuber." T. melanosporuin is found in the woods, 
chiefly beneath the shade of the oak, in the neighbourhood of 
Perigueux and of Angouleme. The British truffle, T. astivum, 
found mostly in beech woods, is in season in the course of the 
summer, when it may be found in Covent Garden ; but even 
when fresh is greatly inferior to the French variety in scent and 
flavour. 

t The above, written some eight or ten years ago, accurate 
as it then was, represents a condition now considerably im- 
proved, and I leave the text, adding this note for the purpose of 



Notes about Truffles; Caviare. 271 

eaten and appreciated the fresh truffle, it appears 

to me that eating them when preserved is more the 

result of fashion, than of much gratification derived 

from the act. Something of the same 

Caviare, 
kind may be said of caviare. Once 

eaten in its freshest and finest condition, say in 
Moscow, and the black herring-flavoured, small- 
seeded caviare, commonly found here, becomes 
uneatable. But the pale grey and fresher kind does, 
to a satisfactory extent, recall the delicious qualities 
of the best Russian product when fresh. And this 
latter may sometimes be found at Berlin, a distance 
it can reach by rail without injury.* 

emphasizing the change. The mode of preserving the truffle 
recently adopted, in air-tight tins instead of the well-known 
thick bottles — so contrived as to look large, and to hold but a few 
ounces — is far more successful than these in preserving the fine 
scent and nut-like texture of the tuber. Cobbett, of Pall Mall, 
and Morel, of Piccadilly, have effected this improvement. But 
during the short winter season of the fresh truffle, each receives 
a direct supply by rail from the Perigord district at least three 
or four times a week. 

' It may be added also, that a fairly good, not highly salted, 
caviare is now less difficult to procure than it formerly was, 
thanks to increased facilities for rapid transit. It should be 
obtained as soon after arrival here as possible, in time for 
immediate use. 



CHAPTER XV. 

The public dinner — Its undue length — Toasts too numerous — 
Suggestions for shortening the proceedings — Good cookery 
independent of pedantic and complicated receipts — Schools 
of cookery — Elementary scientific teaching wanted to make 
cookery interesting and a progressive art — Better food, in 
better condition, and in more abundant supply, a pressing 
want for London — Conclusion. 

Before concluding, a remark or two may be per- 

^, , .. mitted in reference to that great British 

The public . . ^ 

dinner and institution, the public dinner. Its utility 

' must, I suppose, be conceded, since for 

a vast number of charitable and other useful institu- 
tions, the opportunity of commanding once a year 
the ear of a generous British public for an exposition 
of their claims, seems in no other way at present 
attainable. A royal or noble chairman, a portentous 
menu, an unstinted supply of wine, such as it is, and 
after-dinner speeches in variety, form an ensemble 
which appears to be attractive to the great body of 
•' supporters." On the other hand, those whose 
presence is enforced by the claim of duty find these 
the hardship banquets too numerous and too long. 
it entails. ^he noise and bustle, the badly served 

although pretentious dinner, the glare of gas and 



Shorten Public Dinners. 273 

the polluted air, the long, desultory, and unmeaning 
speeches, interspersed with musical performances — 
which, however admirable in themselves, extend 
unduly a programme already too comprehensive — 
unfit many a man, seriously occupied, for the engage- 
ments of the morrow. Might it not be „. , . 

^ Hints for its 

worth while to try the experiment of improve- 

offering fewer dishes, better service, and ^. '. 

abolishing half the toasts ? Might it number of 

the to3iSts 
not be possible to limit the necessary 

and essential toasts of a public dinner to the number 

of three or four — these to be followed at most by one 

or two special toasts associated with the object of 

the dinner? With the utmost deference to long 

received usage, and after some little consideration, 

I venture to suggest that the following programme 

would at all events be an improvement on the present 

system, if such it can be called. 

The first toast, or toasts, by which we declare our 

fidelity to the Crown, and our loyalty 

X OclStS 

to the person of the Sovereign, as well which sre 
as to the Royal family, to remain, by 
universal consent, as before. The next, or patriotic 
toasts, unlike the preceding, are regarded as demand- 
ing response, often from several persons, and here 
it is that time is generally wasted. Suggestions 
These might therefore be advantage- y^and'"^" 
ously compressed into one, or perhaps compression, 
two, which need not be limited to the military and 
naval services, although it would, of course, include 



274 Food and Feeding. 

them. The object might be attained by constituting 
one or two comprehensive patriotic toasts, as " The 
United Services," to embrace the army, navy, and 
volunteers, and to be responded to either by a naval 
or a military officer as arranged, but by one only. 
Then might naturally follow " The National Institu- 
tions," consisting of, say (i) Parliament : its leaders. 
(2) Justice : the judges. (3) Religion : its ministers. 
(4) Science and Art : heads of societies, academies, 
colleges. (5) Literature and the Press : distinguished 
writers. One of these, as a rule, only to be given, 
and in nine cases out of ten, probably number 
one would be the most appropriate and the most 
popular. 

The next to be " the toast of the evening : " in 
other words, the particular subject of the dinner. 
After this might follow a fourth, embracing the 
healths of officers connected with the subject, visitors, 
etc., if necessary. 

I confess I see no reason why the military and 
Combination naval forces, however profound our 
presskm' respect and our gratitude for their great 

continued. services to the nation must be — and in 
this matter I yield to no man — should invariably 
be responded to by at least two, mostly now by three 
officers, while the other great, and scarcely less 
important interests, should be left out of consideration 
altogether, or be only occasionally introduced. The 
toast of " National Institutions " would mostly ensure 
to the chairman ^nd managers of the dinner an 



Much Improved of Late. 275 

opportunity of obtaining one or two good speeches, 

say, one for Parliament, or for Justice, or Religion, 

or for Science, or Literature. The choice to be 

determined upon by the presence of some individual 

belonging to any one of these interests, and who is 

known to be a capable and agreeable after-dinner 

speaker. Thus all the varied elements of our 

national life would receive in their turn a due share 

of attention from the great mass of public diners, 

and better speeches would probably be secured than 

by the present mode. 

I confess this is rather an episode ; but the subject 

of " toasts " is so interwoven with the management 

of the public dinner that I have ventured to introduce 

it. I even dare to think that the proposition may 

be not unlikely to receive the support of " the chair," 

the duties of which, with a long array of toasts, are 

sometimes excessively onerous ; only more so, be it 

recollected, in degree than those, of a humbler kind, 

which are entailed on many of the guests who are 

compelled to assist. Considerable im- _ 

^ _ Recent im- 
provement has taken place during the provement 

P and its cause, 
last few years m the management of 

public dinners. This is largely due to the influence 

of H.R.H. the Prince of Wales, who, when called on 

to preside at the annual festival of some important 

charity, which has been so fortunate as to obtain His 

Royal Highness as their advocate, requires a menu 

reasonably limited, and the elimination of unnecessary 

toasts and speeches. 



276 Food and Feeding. 

In concluding this imperfect sketch of the very 
Have large subject indicated by the title em- 

l°g"htty many ployed, I desire to express my strong 
topics, sense of its manifold shortcomings, 

especially by way of omission. Desiring to call atten- 
tion, in the smallest possible compass, to a great 
number of what appear to me to be important con- 
siderations in connection with the arts 
which, were 
not the limits of selecting, preparing, and serving food, 

' I have doubtless often failed to be ex- 

plicit in the effort to be brief. It would have been 
an easier task were time at my disposal to illustrate 
these considerations at greater length, and to have 

• ui. .. exceeded the limits of this small volume ; 

might have ' 

been advan- I might thus perhaps also have avoided, 
treated at in dealing with some topics, a tone in 
length. statement more positive than circum- 

stances may have warranted. Gastronomic tastes 
necessarily differ, as races, habits, digestive force 
and supplies of food also differ ; and it becomes no 
man to be too dogmatic in treating of these matters. 
De gustibus non est disputandum is in no instance more 
true than in relation to the tastes of the palate. Still, 
if any rational canons are to be laid down in connection 
with food and feeding, it is absolutely necessary that 
something more than the chemical and physiological 
bearings of the subject should be taken into con- 
sideration. With these it is unquestionably essential 
for any one who treats of my subject to be familiar ; 
but no less necessary is it to possess some natural 



Taste and Simplicity. 277 

taste and experience in the cultivation of the gusta- 
tory sense, just as a cultivation of the Culinary 

perception of colour and a sensibility taste, and 
r r J physiological 

to the charm of harmoniously combined knowledge 

,,. wanted for 

tmts, are necessary to an mteihgent en- the progress 

joyment of the visual sense, and to the cookery, 
understanding of its powers. Hence the treatment 
of the whole subject must inevitably be pervaded to 
some extent by the personal idiosyncrasy and pre- 
dilections of the individual. It is this fact, no doubt, 
which, operating in relation to the numerous writers 
on cookery, has tended to produce some of the 
complication and confusion which often appears in 
culinary directions and receipts. But the gastronomic 
art is a simpler one than the effusions of some of 
its professors might lead the wholly uneducated to 
believe ; and the complicated productions originated 
by some of its past and greatest practitioners are as 
unnecessary as are the long and complicated prescrip- 
tions formerly in vogue with the leading physicians 
of past time. Both were the natural outgrowths of 
an age when every branch of technical education 
was a " mystery ; " and when those who had 
attained the meaning thereof magnified their craft 
in the eyes of the vulgar by obscuring what is 
simple in a cloud of pedantic terms and processes. 
But that age and its delusions are passing away, 
and it is high time for simplicity in the prac- 
tice of cookery and the service of the table to 
take the place of some useless and extravagant 



278 Food and Feeding. 

combinations and treatment which tradition has 
handed down. 

The formation of elementary schools of cookery, 
Schools of and the encouragement they have re- 
^°!^^'7and ^.gjygj fj.Qjn the public, augur well for 

importance. improvement. That they should teach 
the principles of cookery, that is, of applying heat 
to food, as well as the practical work of the kitchen, 
is a matter of the first importance. No doubt the 
standard of attainment is low in both subjects, and 
a certain commonplace uniformity in product will 
pervade the country as the result. Once make 
cookery a distinct business to which the young may 
be trained, which it never yet has been, and the 
chance of now and then producing a first-rate cook, 
who may advance the art, is within reach. Formerly 
the practice of cookery was far too often merely a 
resource for wage-getting among ignorant women, 
w^ho took to it at hazard, and acquired such traditions 
as pertained to the kitchen they happened to enter. 
Thanks to some systematic teaching, which of late 
has widely extended, there are occasionally some 
fairly good practical cooks to be met with, but they 
are very rare, and very few indeed understand the 
principles on which the art of cookery is based. 
Until it is taught as a science as well as an art, and 
there should be no difficulty in doing so, since a very 
little knowledge of certain chemical and physical 
laws is requisite to furnish the rationale of the changes 
in food through the application of heat, the cook will 



Skilled Teaching Needful, 279 

be ignorant of all except that which she has been 
taught by rule to do, and incapable of improving 
her practice by applying heat in new ways or ac- 
quiring new results by intelligent experiments. 
Further, until the subject of cooking, with its practice, 
is recognized in this country as a profession which 
a man with some education and natural taste can 
exercise, we must be content to rank below other 
countries in rearing artists of the first order. 

At the present day it appears desirable, before all 
things, to secure the highest quality in „ ... 
all produce of the land whether animal class 
or vegetable, the standard of attainment ' 

leaving much to be desired in regard to the products 
of the latter kingdom. Great Britain has long held 
the first place as to quality for her beef and mutton ; 
in no other country in Europe is it possible to obtain 
these meats so tender, juicy, and well-developed. 
The saddle, the haunch, the sirloin, and the round, 
so admirable on occasions, are only in danger of 
suffering here, like intimate friends, from a too great 
familiarity with their charms. But even jjy careful 
our standard of quality in meat has been I'reeduig. 
gradually lowered, from the closer struggle, year by 
year, to produce a fat animal in a shorter space of 
time than formerly ; a result which is accomplished 
by commencing to feed almost exclusively on oil- 
cake at a very early period of life. The result of 
this process is, that size and weight are attained by 
a deposit of fat, rather than by the construction of 



28o Food and Feeding. 

muscular fibre, which alone forms the staple of 
matured and wholesome flesh. Not only are there 
in these animals large and unnecessary deposits of 
fat in the cavities, chest, and abdomen of the body, 
but there is also a proportion of fat seen to be inter- 
mixed with the muscular fibres when the meat is 
cut, making what ought to be lean meat a compound 
of fat and lean which are inseparable. This is the 
result of artificial or over-fattening, which does not 
occur in the flesh of an animal which has passed an 
active and healthy life in the forest or on the downs. 
The necessary consequence, of course, is that the 
characteristic flavour and qualities of fully developed 
beef and mutton are greatly wanting in modern 
meat. 

Far from satisfactory also is the supply of vege- 
Vegetable table and dairy produce to our great 
produce. (.jj-y^ particularly of the former. It must 

be confessed that our market at Covent Garden, in 
relation to capabilities for effective distribution of 
fresh vegetables, etc., would disgrace a town one- 
fifth of the size of London. Few of its inhabitants 
can obtain really fresh green food, and those who 
succeed pay a heavy price. But their success is only 
partial, as those few who have a country garden of 
their own, and are supplied by it, well know. And, 
comparatively speaking, none but those who are so 
happily circumstanced, realize the exceeding luxury 
of possessing well-grown vegetables brought directly 
from the garden to the table. Again, I think I am 



Better Supply of Foods 281 

right in saying that a new-laid egg is a luxury 

which it is not easy in London to ensure by purchase. 

Whoever would absolutely secure the luxury must 

keep fowls, and with due care may obtain it, not 

otherwise. 

The great staple of our bread, commonly called 

"baker's bread," is unpalatable and in- 

j . ., , Bread. 

digestible ; and I suppose no thoughtful 

or prudent consumer would, unless compelled, eat 
it habitually — used as it nevertheless is by the great 
majority of the inhabitants of this great city — any 
more than he would select a steak from the coarse 
beef whose proper destination is the stock-pot. Let 
any one compare the facilities which exist in most 
foreign towns for obtaining the various important 
articles of diet just named, with the modes of supply 
afforded in London, and the inferiority of the latter 
will be so manifest as to become matter of humilia- 
tion to an Englishman. I do not raise . 
any question of comparison between our distribution 
own markets and the Halles Centrales 
of Paris, covering as they do nearly five acres of 
closely utilized space, with enormous vaults beneath, 
in direct communication by tram-road with the rail- 
ways ; nor of the well-stocked March6 St. Honor^, 
and others of less note. An early morning survey 
of the fish, flesh, dairy produce, vegetables, fruit, and 
flowers, which the Halles Centrales display, together 
with the scarcely less remarkable exhibition of 
Parisian and provincial life brought together there. 



282 Food and Feeding. 

presents one of the most interesting and truly foreign 
spectacles which the city affords. 

To the long list of needed reforms I have ventured 
much wanted t° advocate in connection with this sub- 
in London. ]&ct, I must add the want of ample and 
accessible markets in various parts of London, for 
what is known as country produce. I do this not 
only in the interest of the millions who, like myself, 
are compelled to seek their food within the limits of 
Cockayne, but also in the interest of our country 
gardeners and housewives, who ought to be able to 
supply us with poultry, vegetables, and eggs, better 
than the gardeners and housewives of France, on 
whom at present we so largely depend. We may 
well be grateful to these small cultivators, who by 
their industry and energy supply our deficiencies ; 
but the fact that they do so does not redound to the 
credit of our countrymen, and, I am bound to add, 
countrywomen, for the bountiful supply of eggs and 
poultry which reach us from France is chiefly due to 
the untiring industry, care, and good management of 
the poultry-yard which the wives of the small agri- 
culturists there bestow upon it.* Since the foregoing 
paragraphs were written for the first edition of this 
work, I am glad to note the improved facilities for 
obtaining country supplies which now exist, as com- 
pared with their absence at that period. Still, so 
rapidly do the area and population of our city in- 
crease, that the claim for more and better fresh food 

* See p. 66 for amount imported. 



To be Encouraged. 283 

still increases almost in the same ratio as the im- 
proved supply. 

Have I claimed for the consideration of my subject 
too great a share in the thoughts and 
multifarious labours of busy men ? I 
think not. For myself, being not without serious 
occupations, an attentive study of it has agreeably 
occupied many leisure hours at home and abroad ; 
but it has furthermore performed good service in the 
interest of health. And if I have been rightly un- 
derstood, this imperfect attempt to popularize a few 
undoubted truths in relation to the selection, the 
cookery, and the service of food, will be regarded as 
a manifesto, which assuredly it is intended to be, on 
behalf of true temperance. 

In one word let me conclude — if in professional 
life, for some of us, the chief power lies in a skilled 
right hand, and in the temperament which pertains 
thereto, it is no less true that a practical acquaintance 
with the laws of diet and digestion becomes also a 
power in the combat with disease, not far inferior to 
the other in importance. 

My last word, then, no less than my first, shall 
testify to the value for all men of some knowledge 
in relation to their Food and Feeding. 



APPENDIX. 



ON THE POT-AU-FEU, SOUPS, ETC. 

Pot-au-feu : Jules Gouffe's instructions for making it— Gouffe's in- 
structions for hiaising — jBceuf d la mode— VegetaHe Soup — 
Author's directions for beef-tea— Table of French equivalents 
for the English words denoting fish, as a guide in writing mentis 
— Table showing when fish is in season — Children's dinner tables 
— Author's receipt for cheap, nutritious soup — The dinner of the 
working man, and Mr. Atkinson's suggestions respecting it. 

The Pot-au-feu. 

The fot-aii-feu, or pure beef stock, flavoured with vege- 
tables, has long been regarded as the type of a foundation 
stock for soup-making by all the great leaders of French 
cookery, for a century or more. The broth obtained by the 
process is known as bouillon ; and the portion of meat being 
maintained intact, not torn or cut in pieces, was in former 
days invariably served after it as a hot dish to be eaten, 
bouilli, containing as it did a good deal of nutritious matter 
not to be extracted by hot water, but obtained by the 
consumer through the action of digestion in the stomach. 
Such is still the habit of the French peasant and artisan, 
and is unquestionably the most complete and economical 
mode of extracting all the nourishing qualities of the meat. 

But the pot-au-feu, for modern purposes, now appears in 
any society, however cultivated, as a valuable and agreeable 



286 Food and Feeding. 

clear soup, and the process of making it will be given with 
all necessary details. These are shorter and more simple 
than the extremely full directions given by Gouflfd, in his 
classical work " Le Livre de la Cuisine," which in previous 
editions of the present volume were translated at consider- 
able length.* 

Take an ordinary gallon stock-pot of copper tinned, with 
a cover for occasional use only. Ingredients : 2 lbs. of 
good fresh lean beef from the leg, with f lb. of bone ; 
six ounces each of carrots, turnips, leeks, and onions, one 
of celery and two of parsnips; a clove stuck in an onion, 
and a small bunch of kitchen herbs, parsley, thyme, and 
chervil ; a rather small teaspoonful of salt ; four and a half 
pints of water. 

Crush the bones well with a mallet, putting them into the 
pot first. Cut the meat into small morsels, an inch or a 
little more each way, removing all the fat, and lajdng them 
on the bones. Next, pour in all the water cold; and place 
the pot without its cover on the corner of a steady gentle 
fire or gas ring. Add the salt, and bring gently to the boil. 
As soon as the scum rises, remove it with a perforated 
spoon, and when the liquor boils, pour in a small cupful of 
cold water to check it and make the scum rise. Bring it 
slowly again to boiling at least twice, scumming and check- 
ing with cold water as before each time, which should 
suffice. Meanwhile, having shced the vegetables named, 
now add them to the pot, which again checks the boiUng 
for a time. When it begins again, draw the pot aside so 
that it now only simmers, which it should continue to do 

* J. GouflK, " Le Livre de la Cuisine," pp. 39-47. Paris : 1867. 
Thus he writes : "The production of a %ooi pot-au-feu seems to me 
to be one of those operations, at the same time elementary and 
fundamental, with which it is of the highest importance to render 
every one familiar, as soon as domestic cooking is treated of." 



Gouffd's Directions, Rhumd. 287 

for three or four hours. But the vegetables and herbs 
should be removed and set aside when the former are well 
cooked, after which they must not remain in the pot, the 
meat only remaining until the end of the process. 

The liquor is now to be poured off into a perfectly clean 
vessel until cold, and any fat thereon removed. It ought 
to be clear, with an agreeable odour and colour. The 
quantity of soup resulting should be diminished about 
one-third by the process, and should suffice for six or eight 
persons. 

It is generally served at table now with a few full-sized 
thin slices of freshly cooked carrot, turnip, and leek, in which 
case it would be more properly termed i lapaysanne. The 
addition of a rather thin slice of the crust of a loaf, one to 
each plate, constitutes it a crcr&te au pot. 

The bouillon, or good clear beef-broth, produced by the 
pot-au-feu, is the basis of all brown soups. And a decoction 
of veal and veal bones, with fowl and vegetables as before, 
similarly treated in all respects, is, or should be, employed 
as the basis of all white soups, clear or purees. 

A consommk is a stronger decoction of meat than the 
bouillon, with a fuller body and flavour. Compared with 
the receipt for the pot-au-feu, and using the same quantity 
of water, beef bones, and vegetables there required, add 
half the weight of veal (meat and bone) as that of the 
beef, and proceed in all particulars of boiling, skimming, 
simmering, etc., as for the pot-au-feu. It is to be presented 
perfectly clear when finished, and, if necessary, must be 
clarified in the usual manner (for which, see a good cookery 
manual). 

Or a consomme may be made by using the beef bouillon 
in place of water, adding the additional veal recommended 
above, and repeating the process of the pot-au-feu just 
referred to. For a consomm'e of game, adopt the pot-au~feu 



288 Food and Feeding. 

process, together with grouse, partridge, or hare, as preferred 
in weight, at least equal to half the weight of stock meat 
used. For a consomme of fowl, adopt the same process as 
above advised, but with a proportionately increased weight 
of veal and fowl, to the water used for the white bouillon 
above, together with vegetables deemed appropriate. 



Ordinary Braising. 

Jules Gouffi^'s instructions for Boeuf A la mode, referred 
to at p. 107 — 

" Take about 4 lbs. of thick beef-steak cut square. Lard 
the meat and place it in a stewpan with rather less than a 
pint of white wine, a pint of stock, a pint of cold water, 
two calves' feet already boned and blanched, and two or 
three slices of bacon. Put it on the fire, adding about half 
an ounce of salt. Make it boil, and skim it as for a pot- 
au-feu; next, having skimmed it, add fully i lb. of carrots, 
one onion, three cloves, one faggot of herbs, and two pinches 
of pepper. Place the stewpan on the corner of the stove, 
cover it, and allow it to simmer very gently for four or 
five hours at least. Try the meat with a skewer to ascer- 
tain when it is sufficiently cooked; then put it on a dish 
with the carrots and the calves' feet, and keep them 
covered up hot until serving. Next, strain the gravy 
through a fine tammy ; remove carefully every atom of 
grease, and reduce it over the fire about a quarter. 
Lastly, place the beef on the dish for serving; add the 
calves' feet, each having been cut in eight pieces, the 
carrots cut into pieces the size of a cork, and ten glazed 
onions. Arrange the calves' feet, carrots, and onions 
round the beef, pour the sauce over the meat, keeping 
the surplus for the next day. Taste it, in order to ascer- 
tain if sufficiently seasoned." 



For Soups and Braising. 289 

Gouffe continues: "The important question, after the 
choice of the meat, is the cooking, which must be done 
entirely by slow simmering; and this is one of the most 
essential points for success. For when exposed to a hot 
fire the result is a white, watery, insipid gravy, such as is 
too often found in kitchens where cooking is carelessly 
done. The gravy ought to be red in colour, rather gelatinous 
in consistence, and full of the agreeable flavour and nutri- 
tive matter of both meat and vegetables, which is the dis- 
tinctive mark of the dish. To obtain this excellent quality, 
the vegetables should be put into the braising-pot at the 
proper time, so that all are cooked together." * 

I cannot resist adding that Gouffd's directions amount 
almost to an early step in the direction of the slow process 
in cookery, which I have advocated so much during the 
last few years. This braise would probably be still more 
excellent if, after the initial boiling and skimming, it were 
submitted only to a temperature not exceeding 175° Fahr. 
during seven or eight hours. 

Consomm'e of Fresh Vegetable Roots from Gouffi. 

Cut in slices 2i lbs. of carrots and the same weight of 
onions ; put them in a stewpan with some parsley, thyme, 
shalot, and celery, and also i lb. 2 ozs. of butter. 

Fry gently to a red colour, add 8f pints of water, let it 
boil, and skim it. 

Next put into it i| pint of peas and a couple of 
lettuces. 

Then add ij oz. of salt, \ oz. of whole pepper, i pinch 
of nutmeg, 3 cloves, if pint of dried peas, if pint of white 
haricots. 

Let it simmer for three hours at the side of the fire, skim 

* J. Gouffe, " Le Livre de Cuisine," pp. 126-128. Paris : 1867. 

T 



290 Food and Feeding. 

off the grease and strain through a cloth ; then put aside 
for use {Op. cit., pp. 348, 349). 

This comommi may form the basis of spring sow^, julienne, 
brunoise, aux ceufs pocMs, crify, etc., fresh vegetables and 
other materials being added, after the analogy in each case 
of the potages gras. 



The Author's Directions for Making Good 
Beef-tea. 

Chop fine or mince with a machine, a pound and a half 
of gravy beef from which the fat has been removed. 

Place it in an earthen jar with a lid, add a pint of cold 
water, and let it remain an hour, occasionally stirring and 
pressing the meat firroly with an iron spoon. Then place 
the jar, with the lid on, in a saucepan large enough to cover 
it, with water sufficient to reach nearly to the lid, but not 
near enough when gently boiling to rise above it and enter 
the jar. 

The water in the saucepan is to be kept at about boiling 
point or a little under, at the comer of the fire, for three 
hours, adding a little water occasionally, to replace that 
which evaporates. 

When the time has expired the jar may be removed, the 
beef-tea drained from the meat, which is then to be pressed 
as closely as possible through a coarse straining cloth so as 
to extract all the hquid. 

After standing a short time the beef-tea will become 
clear, much light brown flaky matter falling to the bottom. 
By no means remove this, as it is nutritious material, 
unless any special orders have been given to the contrary. 



Receipt for Beef -tea. 291 

When cold, the fluid will be slightly gelatinous, varying 
somewhat as the meat used may vary in the amount of skin, 
tendon, or other fibrous tissue contained therein. 

If, however, " shin of beef," which, of course, includes 
bone, is used as well as gravy beef, say a pound of each, 
add the meat detached from the bone to the pound of 
gravy beef and treat them together as already described ; 
but utilize the bone by breaking it with a chopper or 
hammer, after which the pieces are to be placed in a small 
saucepan apart, with a pint of cold water, for an hour. 
Then the whole is to be slowly brought to boiling point, 
and to be maintained at the same until the liquid is 
reduced to the third of a pint, which is to be strained off 
and mixed with the beef-tea already made ; a firm jelly will 
result when cold. A strong solution of gelatine has thus 
been added to the meat extractives and albumen obtained 
by the first process, materially improving the value of the 
compound. 

When cold, remove the small quantity of fat which is 
always to be found on the surface, and heat what is 
required, as wanted. If the beef-tea is to be served as 
soon as made without cooling, remove as much of the fat 
as possible with a teaspoon, and the small remainder by 
means of white blotting-paper. 

No better vessel exists for the treatment of the meat 
(not for the bones) than a small Warren pot (see p. 99). 

Then it should be remembered that the beef-tea can be 
rendered far more nutritious, when the invalid is able to take 
any solid addition, by adding thereto a small quantity of 
well-minced rump-steak. For this purpose the meat should 
be brought to the condition of pulp by passing it three or 
four times through the best mincing machine which can be 
obtained, after having broiled the meat lightly only (see 
Mincing at pp. 168, 169). 



292 



Food and Feeding. 



ON MENU WRITING. 
Question sometimes arises in writing menus as to the 
correct word in French for each species of fish with which 
we are familiar in England. Referred to at p. 256. A list 
is here supplied — 



Salmon . 


saumon, masc. 


Trout 


truite,yiff«. 


Turbot . 


turbot, m. 


Brill 


barbue, f. 


John Dory 


St. Pierre, m. 


Cod 


cabillaud, m. 


Salt cod . 


morue,y". 


Haddock . 


aigrefin, m. ; merluche,/. 


Whiting . 


merlan, m. 


Sole 


sole,/. 


Red mullet 


rouget, m. 


Smelt 


eperlan, m. 


Whitebait 


blanchaille,/ 


Plaice 


plie,/ 


Flounder . 


carrelet, m. 


Gray mullet 


mnlet, m. 


Skate 


raie,/ 


Sturgeon . 


esturgeon, m. 


Ling 


lingue,/ 


Bream 


htime,/. 


Mackerel . 


maquereau, m. 


Herring . 


hareng, m. 


Sardine . 


sardine,/ 


Gurnard . 


gurnard, grondin, m. 


Pike 


brochet, m. 


Carp 


carpe,/ 


Perch 


perche, f. 


Grayling . 


ombre, / 


Eel 


anguille, /. 


Crayfish . 


ecrevisse,/ 


Shrimp 


crevette, f. 


Prawn 


chevrette,/. 


Crab 


crabe, ecrevisse de mer, m 


Lobster . 


homard, m. 


Oysters . 


huitres. 


Mussels . 


moules. 



Fish in Season. 



293 



MONTHS OF THE YEAR WHEN FISH IS IN 
FINE CONDITION. 

The spaces are in that case left blank ; when not fine a 
X is placed under the month. It may often be fairly good 
when the month is crossed, but it is not fine. Referred to 
at p. 251. 



FLsh 


1 


1 


.g 


< 

X 


i 

X 




■c 
1-1 

X 


X 


^ 


1 


2. 




1 


1 


Brill . 










Cod . 












X 


X 


X 


X 








Crab. 


. X 


X 


X 


X 










X 


X 


X 


X 


Dory. 


X 


X 








X 


X 












Eel . 










X 


X 


X 












Flounder 


. X 








X 


X 










X 


X 


Grayling 


. X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 












Gurnard 


. X 


















X 


X 


X 


Haddock 






X 


X 


X 
















Hake. 




X 


X 


X 


X 
















Halibut 








X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 








Herring 


. X 






X 


X 
















Ling . 










X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 






Lobster 


. X 




















X 


X 


Mackerel 
















X 


X 


X 






Mullet (red 


) ■ X 


X 


X 
















X 


X 


.. (gre) 


■) X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 










X 


X 


Mussel 








X 


X 


X 


X 












Oyster 










X 


X 


X 


X 


X 








Pike . 






X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 








Plaice 




X 


X 


X 


















Prawn 


. X 




















X 


X 


Salmon 


. X 


X 














X 


X 


X 


X 


Sea trout . 


. X 


X 














X 


X 


X 


X 


Skate. 










X 


X 


X 


X 


X 








Smelt 










X 


X 


X 


X 










Sole . 






X 


X 


















Sturgeon . 








X 


X 


X 


X 


X 










Trout 


X 


X 


X 














X 


X 


X 


Turbot 


X 


X 


















X 


X 


Whitebait . 


. X 


X 














X 


X 


X 


X 


Whiting . 








X 



















294 Food and Feeding. 



The Children's Dinner Table. 

This has become so well known and so popular an in- 
stitution that I can scarcely leave it unnoticed. The more 
so as its origin is, I may be permitted to say, not without 
interest personal to myself. 

Victor Hugo, when an exile in Guernsey, established a 
substantial meat dinner for very poor children, in the belief 
that even this amount of good nourishment, supplied once 
or twice a week, would afford them valuable aid during the 
period of rapid growth, by developing the constitution ot 
these young people, and thus improve the stamina of the 
rising generation. And he advocated the general adoption 
of the system from this point of view, in some letters on 
the subject in the local press in the year 1865. By some 
means these fell into the hands of Lady (at that time Mrs.) 
Thompson, who forthwith resolved to try the experiment in 
Marylebone. Having consulted the clergyman of the 
parish, who approved the plan, she at once issued the 
following prospectus : — 

" It is proposed to supply hot dinners of wholesome food for poor 
children, especially those who are, or have been in bad health, and 
who need more nutritious diet than their homes afibrd. 

" On and after the beginning of October it is intended to engage 
a room where twice a week such children may come for a meal of 
meat, vegetables, and bread, all of the best quality ; and where, with 
only just enough discipline to insure good order and behaviour, their 
hunger shall be satisfied, the means of restored health provided, and 
habits of neatness taught. 

" The room will be in the immediate neighbourhood of High Street 
Marylebone. 

" The arrangements are in active progress, but the cost of furniture 
and kitchen utensils involves some outlay, hence immediate donations 
are earnestly solicited for this purpose. 

" Further, any person may become a subscriber by paying the sum 
of 3J. 6rf., which will entitle him or her to ten tickets, and to the 
privilege of sending children to that number of dinners— each child 



Children's Dinner Table. 295 

paying one penny for every dinner afforded. The ticket must be left 
at the room before 9 o'clock on the morning of the day on which 
its recipient will dine, so that the number may be provided for. The 
dinners will commence in October and continue till July. 

"Tickets will be sure of beneficial distribution if forwarded to any 
of the neighbouring hospitals or local dispensaries, to the clergy, or the 
district visitors. 

" A list of these, and full information on all points connected with 
the establishment of this ' Children's Dinner Table,' may be obtained 
by those willing to co-operate, on application to Mrs. Eyre, 20, Upper 
Wimpole Street ; or Mrs. Henry Thompson, Treasurer, 35, Wimpole 
Street ; or Mrs. H. G. Wright, Secretary, 23, Somerset Street, 
Portman Square. Subscriptions may be paid to the Bankers, Sir 
S. Scott & Co., I, Cavendish Square. Tickets may be had at 
Thomas & Co.'s Stationery Warehouse, 21, Great Marylebone Street. 

•'August, 1866." 

The scheme was well supported by friends and neigh- 
bours, and came into operation early in October. Her 
first report thereon (also now before me), dated November 
of that year, and therefore when the plan had been tried 
only six weeks, shows that the dinners had been provided 
" every Wednesday and Saturday at 12 o'clock. The room 
accommodates 60 children: at present (November, 1886) 
the largest attendance has been 44." And it goes on to 
say that " a dinner can be sent to a child too ill to attend, 
if the messenger applies at the room before nine in the 
morning/' etc. — a further development of the original plan. 

This was the first public children's free dinner-table 
provided in this country. Victor Hugo was delighted with 
this endeavour to realize his idea in London, and wrote to 
the pioneer of his views here earnestly and encouragingly 
to persevere in her work. 

From that time to the present day, this institution has 
continued under the same management, and has been very 
popular and well supported, so that its funds and operations 
have been largely increased. A kitchen open daily for good 
and cheap soup has been associated with it. For many 



296 Food and Feeding. 

years the plan has been greatly extended so as to supply 
also adults, both healthy and invalid, of the poorer classes, 
every day in the week except Sunday, not only with 
dinners and soup, but also with beef-tea and rice milk, and 
continues to do so. Larger premises are soon to be 
erected (1898). 

Author's Receipt for Cheap, Nutritious Soup. 

The following is recommended to make a cheap but 
really good and nourishing soup. Take six pounds of shin 
of beef; the bone to be broken into small fragments and 
set, together with the meat cut up fine or minced, to stand 
two hours in a gallon of water, at about 90° to 100°, 
occasionally stirring. Then drain off all the liquor; sepa- 
rate all the meat and set this aside. The bones are now 
to be placed in a saucepan with another gallon of water 
over the fire and well boiled for six hours, supplying loss 
from evaporation afterwards by adding sufficient water to 
make up the gallon. The two liquors may then be mixed 
and used as a stock to be incorporated with a puree of - 
haricots or split peas, etc., and thickened by six pounds 
of fine or medium Scotch oatmeal. Meantime fry in a 
pound of lard, onions, celery, and carrots sufficient, sliced, 
all of which, together with the meat, are to be set aside, 
well rubbed down, and stirred into the soup at the end of 
the process. 

The purk is to be made of twenty pounds of split peas 
or the same of haricots or lentils, alone or mixed, which 
have been soaked twenty-four hours in cold water, and 
slowly simmered until tender, requiring therefore about four 
hours more. Lastly, the oatmeal is to be mixed smooth in 
a little cold water, and added by degrees to two gallons of 
hot water. Bring to the boil and simmer for an hour. Add 
slowly, thoroughly incorporating all the preceding ingredients 



Cheap and Good Soup. 297 

with eight gallons of hot water ; add salt and pepper, heat 
to the boiling point, to be ready for use. The result will 
be twelve gallons, or ninety-six pints. 



Cost. 



6 lbs. shin of beef 
20 lbs. split peas 

7 lbs. of oatmeal 
Vegetables, say 

I lb. of lard . 
Pepper and salt 



Cooking 



7 6 
o 6 

8 o 



Or one penny a pint. 



The quality of the above is exceedingly good, and has 
been maintained, as the result of the same receipt, from 
that time to the present (i8g8) during each season. If the 
same ingredients were treated with sixteen gallons of water, 
making 128 pints and producing \os. Zd., 2s. 2,d. balance 
might be laid out in bread, and a substantial slice given to 
accompany each pint of soup, for the same cost of one 
penny. But even then the soup is stronger than that 
usually furnished at the cheap dinner table for children. 

The receipts furnished by the Rev. Canon Moore Ede 
in his little work, referred to at p. 117, are excellent, and 
suitable for supplying some variety of cheap nutritious foods 
for such dinners. 



The Dinner of the Working Man. 

Mr. Edward Atkinson, whose Aladdin oven has been 
referred to at p. 117 et seq., has recently constructed, on the 
same principle, " a workman's pail," measuring ten inches 
in height by six in diameter, including a sufficient coating 



298 Food and Feeding. 

of non-conducting material, and containing a lamp, two 
cylindrical boxes containing oatmeal or maize meal and 
water, some meat to stew, etc., besides a cofFee-pot, which 
will provide him with at least two good hot meals, 
without requiring any supervision, of excellent food at a 
very cheap rate. From his description of the apparatus, 
his own confidence in " his assured success," grounded on 
experiments made, the details of which enable me to form 
an opinion, I do not doubt that it may prove a valuable 
boon to an intelligent workman, who is not a slave to custom 
and prejudice. I may say that I have had opportunities 
of observing the dining habits of workmen, notably during 
the winter months, of those engaged in the streets in my own 
neighbourhood. Supplied with braziers containing heated 
coke for the purpose of their work, these are often utilized 
at the midday meal. An iron plate being placed thereon, 
a piece of meat is ruthlessly scorched, hardened until tough 
and juiceless, unflavoured by herb or onion, unaccompanied 
by vegetables — to be eaten by hand with more or less of 
dry bread, in alternate bites. A more wasteful cookery, if 
the term be applicable, and a less satisfactory result for both 
palate and stomach, it would be difficult to conceive. I 
have longed to show to them a more excellent way, but 
have feared that any offer to suggest one would be regarded 
as impertinence, or as meddlesome interference on my part. 
A dinner for two persons could be easily cooked in a pail 
of small size, say six inches by eight, as follows : — 

Six sausages ....... 7rf. 

Oat or wheat meal to make thick porridge 

(better than mashed potatoes) . . . \d. 

Bread ijrf. 

Coffee with milk ij^. 

\\d. 

This is based on a receipt of Mr. Atkinson, altered a 



Working Matins Dinner. 299 

little to meet English taste. The American workman uses 
" Indian meal," that is, maize or Indian corn ground, which 
is not so easily procurable here. Very little attention is 
required, when the method of using the apparatus has been 
learned, and a far more nutritious and agreeable meal is 
provided than the workman usually gets. 



INDEX 



Acorns contribute to support 
life in some parts, 47 

Aerated waters, 245-247 

Aladdin oven (an American cook- 
ing apparatus), 117 

, its construction, 119 

Albumen, 22 

exists largely in all living 

things, 22 

Analyses, of cereals and roots, 

etc., 43-45 

of flesh and fish, etc., 181, 182 

of milk, 209 

Animal kingdom, a rapid survey 

of, 49 

compared with vegetable 

kingdom, 24 

Apes, anthropoid, 33 

Arctic regions, food required in, 

S8 
Arrowroot, 46 
Artichokes, 47 
Asparagus, 47 

as an entremet, 156 

, cold boiled, as a salad, 174 

, how to boil, 156 note 

Aspic jelly as a garnish, 171 
, author's receipt for making, 

172 



Atkinson, Mr. E., cooking appa- 
ratus designed by, 117. See 
note, p. 120 

his workman's pail for cook- 
ing a small dinner, 297-299 

B 

Bacon, an adjunct to starchy 

foods, 58 
Bain-marie described, 99 
Baking, cooking meat by, 123 

of fish, 195 

Baking-powder, formula for, 80- 

81 note 
Banana, an important food in 

tropical climates, 47 
Basse, a little-known fish, 187 
Beans, a valuable food, 46, 74 
Becker's cooking apparatus, n6 
Beef, excellence of English, 279 
Beef-broth (" bouillon "), 139, 285, 

287 
Beef-fat or dripping, value for 

frying, 128 
Beef-tea, 95, 182-183 note 
■ , author's directions for 

making, 290, 291 
Beer, 18 
I Beet, constituents of, 46 



302 



Index. 



Beet, cooked in salad, 175 
Bigarade sauce, 153 

, author's receipt, 154 

Bilious attacks, causes of, 17, 82 
Bisques, 145, 260 
Boeuf-i-Ia-mode, 107 

, GoufK's receipt for, 288 

Boiling, cooking meat by, 93, 

95 

of fish, 196 

of vegetables, 104 

Bouillabaisse, Marseillaise, 146 

, receipt for making, 199, 200 

, Thackeray's lines on, 146 

note 
Bouilli, 138, 139 
Bouillon, 139, 285, 287 

, constituents of grand, 140 

Brain-workers, food for, 69-72 

Braising, 108 

, illustrations of process, 109- 

112 
, ordinary, Gouffe receipt, 

288, 289 

, principles of, 109 

Bread, "Baker's bread" made 

in London is often unpalatable 

and indigestible, 281 
, black, inferior to wheaten, 

57 
, butter or cheese required 

by, 87 
, constituents of wheaten, 44, 

180 
, rarely seen in Norway and 

Sweden, 57 

, whole wheat-meal, 73, 78 

, , best form for baking, 

79. 80 
Bread-fruit, a valuable food, 47 
Breakfast, characteristics of, 216 
Breeding, 279, 280 
Broiling, cooking meat by, 124 



Bumey-Yeo, I., M.D., on "Food 

in Health and Disease," 26 note 
Burton, Mr. W., fish-oven made 

by, ig^note 
Butcher's meat, 68 
, constituents of, 179, 180, 

181 
, wasteful use of, by English 

artisans, 64, 68 
Butter, English melted, 153 



Cabbages as food, 47 

Cakes, whole-meal, receipt for, 
80, 81 

Carbo-hydrates, 22, 43-46 

Carnivorous animals, digestive 
organs of, 32 

Carrots, constituents of, 46 

Casein, 22, 207 

Cat-fish or wolf-fish, 187 

Cauliflower as an entremet, 156 

Caviare, 222 

should be fresh, 271 

Celeriac, 175 

Celery, 47 

, uncooked, for salad, 175 

Cereals, composition of, 43, 44 

— — contain all elements neces- 
sary to life, 42 

Chapon trufFe, 269 

Character and food, relation be- 
tween, 14 

Cheese, a valuable diet for the 
labourer, 83 

improved by cooking, 83 

largely used by Swiss moun- 
taineers, 83 

"Cheese fondu," Swiss, formula 
for, 84 

Chestnuts, 47, SS 



Index. 



303 



at 



of 



Chestnuts as garnish, 156 
Chick-pea, 56 
Children, often ill-fed, 16 
Children's free dinner table 

Marylebone, history of, 294 
Chocolate, 48 
Climate, decides proportion 

animal food necessary, 29 

, in relation to food, 54-58 

Coal-fish, good cheap fish, 187 

Cocoa, 48 

Cocoa-nut, a valuable food in 

tropical countries, 47 
Cod, superiority of fish caught at 

the Dogger Bank, 187 

, value as food, 185 

Coffee, 48 

, insipid mixture sold in hotels 

and railway stations, 137 

, relation of tobacco to, 243 

Complete food, a, 82 

Condiments, 47 

Conger, excellent for soup and 

stews, 188 
Consomme, constituents of, 141- 

144, 287 

, fish, receipt for, 197 

, fresh vegetable roots, 

Gouffe's receipt, 289 
Constipation, causes of, 79 
Cookery, dry, processes described, 

100, 115-120 
, French and English com- 
pared, 130-135 
, ignorance of the principles 

of, 92 
, importance of schools of, 

92, 278 
, indifference to, among 

middle classes, 90 

of fish, 190-201 

, temperature a matter of im- 
portance in, ignored, 92, 93 



Cookery, works on, 117 note, 120 
note, 124 note, 151, 168, 264, 
286 

Cooking at low temperature, 97- 
104, 107, 109-112 

meat, two modes of, 94 

, thermometers for, in, 

frontispiece 

Cooking-pot, Captain Warren's, 
99-104 

Covent Garden Market, inade- 
quate for the supply of London, 
280 

Crayfish, purees of, 145 

Crodte-au-pot, 75, 140 

Cucumbers as garnish, 155 

Curry, 85 

, how to boil rice for, 167, 

i68 

, when out of place, 234 

D 

Dairy produce, deficient supply 

of, in London, 282 
Dates, largely eaten as food in the 

East, 55 
Dessert, 231 

, wines at, 232 

Diet, circumstances modifying, 68 
, danger of sudden changes 

of, 38, 71 
, soups an important item of, 

135 
Dietary, typical daily, a table, 60 

for the working man, 72 

Digestion, necessary elements only 

obtained through, 21 

, receives little attention, 14 

Dinner, a complete dinner scheme, 

251 

, characteristics of, 2i8 

, contrast of dishes at, 267 



304 



Index. 



Dinner, custom of ladies retiring, 

228, 232 

, family, 219 

for poor children, 294-296 

for the working man, 299 

, improvement in modern, 

226 
, menus for each month in 

the year, 255-263 

, menus in French, 256-266 

, mid-century, 227 

, public, with hints for their 

improvement, 272-276 

, small and select, 225 

, society, 225 

, suggestions as to modern, 

229 

, as to small, 235 

, wine with, 232, 237 

Dory, an excellent fish, 186, 196 
Drinking, early habits of, 18 
Dripping, beef, for frying, 128 
Dry cooking, 100-104, 1 15-120 



East, the, food in, 55 

Economy of slow cooking, 118 

Ede, Rev. W. Moore, lecture by, 
on cheap food and cooking, 117, 
297 

, his cooking apparatus, 117 

Eels, 188 

Eggs, 22, 27, 29 

, new-laid, a luxury in Lon- 
don, 281 

Endive, 47 

as a garnish, 125 

Entries, 230 

Entremets, 156 

Erbswurst of the German army, 
ingredients of, 73 

Espagnole, or brown sauce, 152 



Fats necessary as food, 22, 27, 

43-46, S8, 234 
Fatty matter produced from seeds, 

nuts, etc., 46 
Fire, taste of the, 121, 122 
Fish, a nutritious food, 52, 68, 

70-72 
, a new method, namely 

roasting, 193 
, baking, gives good results, 

'95 

, boiling, a wasteful process, 

196 

"cleaning," by fishmonger, 

a wasteful process, 188 

, constituents of, 1S1-184 

, deficient supply in Great 

Britain, 67 

dinners, 234 

, few varieties used as food, 

184 

, its value as food, 1 79-184 

, months when in fine con- 
dition, 293 

much neglected in this 

country, 189 

should partly furnish its own 

sauce, 190 

soups, 144, 197-199 

stew, an economical, 200 

" tea," 183 7ioU 

. varieties less esteemed, but 

excellent, 186 
Flageolets, 74 noti, 158 

in salads, 176 

Flesh, use of, liable to abuse, 35 
Flour, composition of, 43 
Flounders, 1S6 
Food, average requirement for the 

adult male, 59, 60 
depends on climate, 54 



Index. 



305 



Food, desirable to use all sources 

of. 39 
determined by temperature, 

30 

different in Northern Europe, 

S6 

, effect on man morally and 

physically, 14 

, elements necessary to form 

a "complete," 82 

, few men have any know- 
ledge of, 53 

, ill selected and wastefuUy 

prepared, 62 

, importance of its proper 

selection and preparation, 13 

, influence of it and training, 

IS 

in France, 56 

in Germany, 57 

in Italy, 55 

in Norway and Sweden, 58 

in Russia, 58 

in season, 250 

in Southern Europe, 55 

in Spain, 56 

in the Arctic Circle, 58 

in the East, 55 

in the tropics, 54 

, more facilities needed for 

its distribution, 281 

, necessary constituents, 21 

obtainable from animal and 

vegetable kingdoms, 24 

, resources of man in relation 

to, 42 
, simplest complete forms, 

75-88 
, " taste " in, to be cultivated, 

20 

, uses of it to the body, 20 

, value of inert matters, 79 

France, staple diet, 56 



French beans, 74, 158, 176 

saut&, 159 

Freshwater fish as food, 188 

Frog, edible, 53 

Fruits, chemical constituents of, 

48 
Frying, 125 

, practical directions, 126 

, value of olive oil and beef 

dripping for, 128 



Game, 132 

, its nutritive value, 51 

Garlic as a condiment, 56 
Garnishes, 1 71-173 
Garnitures for soups, I48 

for cold dishes, 171 

in variety, 155 

German Empire, foods consumed 

in. 57 
Gieshiibel aerated water, 246 note 
Gigot k la Bretonne, 76 
Gluten, 22 
, most valuable proteid of 

vegetable kingdom, 25 
Gouffi^'s instructions for the pot- 

au-feu, 285-287 

fish-soup, 197 

Gourds, 47 

Grapes abundant in Spain, 56 

Gurnard makes a good dish, 187 

H 

Haddocks, and other fish named, 
excellent food, 186, 196 

as an addition to salads, 177 

Hake, a cheap but good fish, 187 

Halibut, 187 

Halles Centrales, Paris, remarks 
on, 2S1 

U 



3o6 



Index. 



Ham, receipt for cooking, I lo 

Haricots furnish an admirable 
salad when stewed, 76, 77 

, constituents, value of, 45 

, various methods of cooking, 

74-76, 158, 159 

Hart, Mr. Ernest, on the spread 
of zymotic disease, 205 

Hartmann, Prof., on the anthro- 
poid apes, 33 note 

Headaches, sick, causes of, 17 

Herbs, sweet and savoury, 56 

Herrings, 52 

, a cheap and excellent food 

for the working classes, i85 

Hoffmann, Fr., on the digestion 
of vegetable proteids, 25 note 

Honey, 48 

Hors d'oeuvres, 221, 222 

Hotch-potch (a Scotch soup), 144 

Hugo, Victor, meat dinner for 
poor children at Guernsey estab- 
lished by, 294 

Human body, a complex machine, 
self-supplying and repairing, 23 

Hydro-carbons necessary for nu- 
trition, 22 



Imported foods, consumption of, 

per head in United Kingdom, 

66 
Indian corn meal, composition of, 

44 
Indigestion, various causes of, 19 
Infants, errors in feeding, 16 
Inorganic elements in all living 

bodies, 23 
Irish stew, receipt for, 100 
Italian pastes, 46 
Italy, foods consumed in, 55 



Julienne and other vegetable 
soups, 143 

K 

Kenny-Herbert, Col., "Wy- 
vem," on "Common-Sense 
Cookery," 168 note 
Kitcheners, baking in, 123 
Koumiss, or fermented milk, 210 



Labouring classes in England, 
dietary of, 61, 72-75, 83, 89 

Lactometer, use of, 209 

Lard a bad menstruum for frying, 
128 

Laver, as food, 46 

— — an adjunct to roast mutton, 
262 note 

" Leason," a, 152 

Legumes, constituents of, 45 

, food in Italy, 55 

, value as food, 73 

Legumin, 25 

compared to casein, 26 

Lentils, constituents of, 46 

nutritive value of, 45 

Lettuces, 47 

as a garnish, 125 

Ling, a cheap fish, 186 

List of fish in season, 293 

Lunch, characteristics of, 216 

M 

Macaroni, « valuable food, 46, 

86, 161 
, an excellent lunch for the 

busy, 162 



Index. 



307 



Macaroni, author's receipts for 

macaroni au jus, 162 

, i I'ltalienne, 163 

, for other forms, 163, 

164 

, whence derived, 46 

Mackerel, an oily fish, 186 

MaMre d'Hotel, 153 

Maize or Indian corn, SJ, $6 

, constituents of, 86 

, largely consumed in Italy 

under the name of polenta, 86 
largely consumed in United 

States of America with beans, 

under the name of " succotash," 

86 
Malt saccharine, 46 
Man, accustomed to a mixed diet, 

29 

, born an animal feeder, 28 

, his early experience in se- 
lecting material for food, 53 

, his early progenitors, 35 

naturally omnivorous, 30 

, resources in relation to food, 

42 
Marrows, 47 

as an entremet, 156 

Martin, Sidney, Dr., tuberculosis 

and milk, 206 note 
Mastication, influence of, 49 
, necessary preliminary to 

digestion, 50 
Meals, characteristics of, 216 

, daily, should be regular, 214 

, midday, for business men, 

171 

, stimulants at, 237-242 

, three systems of arranging, 

215 

, water at, 244 

Meat, increased importations of, 

66 



Meat, too much eaten, 68 

, various methods of cooking : 

baking, 123 

1 boiling, 93-95 

, braising, 108, 109 

, broiling, 124 

, frying, 125, 126 

, roasting, 120 

, stewing, 106, 107 

Melons, 56, 248 

Menus, art of constructing, 250 

, examples in English, 257 

263 
, examples of French, 258- 

266 

, for dinner-parties, 249 

, for each month in the year, 

255-263 

, French names for fish, 292 

should be written in French, 

256 
Milk, a "complete" food, 202, 

203 

, composition of, 207 

, importance of obtaining a 

pure supply, 203, 204 
, not suitable for sedentary 

persons, 210 
, nutritive value of, 27, 28, 

51,62 
, precautions to ensure purity, 

211 

should be boiled, 206, 212 

, tuberculosis disseminated by, 

206 and note 
, typhoid disseminated by, 

205 
Millet, SS 

Mills for grinding wheat, 82 
Mincing, important mode of pre- 
paring food, 168, 169 
, directions for use of ma- 
chine, 170 



3o8 



Index. 



Mineral waters, use of, 247 
Molluscs or shell-fish, 53 
Monkey tribes, at the Zoological 

Gardens, 34 

, mixed feeders, 33 

Mullets, as food, 186, 192 
Mulligatawny soup, 144 
Muscular exercise, effect of, 69 
Mushroom ketchup, 125, 190 
Mushrooms, grilled, 221 

, nutritive value of, 47 

Mutton, excellence of English, 279 
, to cook by dry process, 

100-104 

N 

National resources in relation 

to diet, 65 
Northern Europe, food necessary 

in, 56 
Norway, food consumed in, jS 
Norwegian cooking apparatus, 

102-104 
" Nutritious " food, 77, 79 
Nuts as food, 47 



O 

Oatmeal, constituents of, 37, 44 

Oil, in fish, 186 

largely consumed in Italy, 55 

, sources of, 46 

Olive oil, 46 

the best available form of 

fat for frvine- i»8 

used in Spain as a substitute 

for butter, 56 

Olla, Spanish, ingredients of, 56 

Omelette making must be practi- 
cally learnt, 129 

Onions, 47, 75 

Over-feeding, evils of, 64 



Oyster soups, 145 

Oysters, 53 

, service of, before dinner, 223 



Parsnip, constituents of, 46 

Pastes, Italian, 46 

Pavy's, Dr., "Treatise on Food 

and Dietetics," 45 note, 59 
Paysanne soup, 140 
Peas, a valuable food, 46 

, constituents of, 73 

, green, 77, 156 

, , how to cook, IDS, 157 

, , served a la Frangaise, 

158 
Physiological necessities foi food, 

21 
Pilau, Turkish, 85, 167 

, , how to make, 167 

Pilchards, a useful food, 186 
Plaice, nutritive qualities of, 186 
Polenta, Italian, 55 

, , how made, 86 

Pollack, good cheap fish, 187 
Polio con arroz, a Spanish national 

dish, 86 
Pork, largely consumed in Ger- 
many in the form of sausage, 

57 
Porridge, oat and rye-meal, eaten 

in the north of Europe, 58 
Potatoes, food constituents of, 37, 

4S. 46 

, in saluds, 175, 176 

, require the addition of fatty 

matter, 87 
, should be steamed "in their 

jackets," 105, 106 
Potage \ la Cond^, 76 
Potage gras, 146 
Poti^e maigre, 77 



Index. 



309 



Potage maigre, furtlier remarks 
respecting, 146 

Potash-water, English, a trust- 
worthy article, 245 

Pot-au-feu, Gouffe's instructions 
for its management, 141 , 285-288 

, ingredients of, 56, 88, 138, 

139, 286 

" Pot gras," or " maigre," 139 

Poultry, 52 

, cooked at a low temperature, 

101-104 

, in France, 56 

, roasting, 1 21 

Produce, desirability of securing 
best quality, 279 

Proteids, constituents of, 21 

, presence of in cereals, le- 
gumes, roots, etc., 43-4S 

, superiority of the animal, 

26 

, whence obtainable, 22 

Pulse, parched, 56 

Pumpkins, 47 

Purees, various, 76, 136, 143, 148. 
See Soups. 



R 

Race, influence on man's mental 
character and physical tenden- 
cies, 15 
Ravigotte sauce, 153 
Remoulade or salad-dressing, 175 
Reptiles, food supplied by, 52 
Rice, constituents of, 44, 45, 83 
— '■ — , modes of cooking red, etc., 
164-168 

, needful additions when eaten 

in Italy, SS (•ff« 1^5) 

, receipt for boiling, for curry, 

167 



Rice the principal food in the 

tropics, 55 
Risotto, needful additions in, 85 

a la Milanaise, how to make, 

166 
"Roast and boiled" — the staple 
food of the middle-class English- 
man, 90 
Roasting, cooking meat by, 120 

, necessity for basting, 121 

, of fish, 193-195 

, principles of, 120 

, taste of the fire, 121 

, temperature of the interior, 

97 
Robinson, W., on " Parks and 

Gardens of Paris,'' 175 note 
Roots, constituents of, 45 
Roux, white and brown, 152, 153 
Rubner, experiments by, 26 note 
Ruminating animals, digestive 

organs of, 32 
Russia, Northern, staple food con- 
sumed in, 58 
Rye, consumption in Italy, 55 
, in Norway and Sweden, 58 



Sago, 46 

St. Galmier aerated water, 247 

Salad-dressing, 175 

Salads — in Southern Europe and 

France, 55, 57 
, instructions for making and 

dressing, 173, 174 
, made of cold boiled table 

vegetables, 176 
,the French salade de legumes, 

177 note 
Salmon, crimping, 193 
, how to cook, 193 



3IO 



Index. 



Salmon, not obtainable In Paris 

in a fresh state, 192 

, value as food, 185 

Salsify, 156 

Salt, common, a necessary addition 

to food, 48 
Salts, inorganic, constituents of 

human body, 23 
Sauces, 151, 155 
, how to serve with fish, 

190 

, principles of, 150, 151 note 

, two foundation, 151 

Sauer-kraut, 57 

Sausage, meat eaten in form of, in 

Spain and Germany, 56, 57 
"Sauter" — the French cookery 

term explained, 159 note 
Scallops as a substitute for oysters, 

258 note 
Schools, improper food at, 17 
Sea-bream, useful as food, 187 
Seakale, 47, 156 
Season of the year when fish is 

best at table, 293 
Seaweeds, nutritive value of, 262 

note 
Sedentary classes, food suitable to, 

64, 69, 70, 89 
Seltzer water, 247 
Shell-fish, S3 

, as a garnish, 138, igi 

Skate, nutritive qualities of, 186 
Slow cookery, system of, 98 
, modes of accomplishing, 

100-104 

, renders flesh digestible, 98 

, special illustration of, 109- 

112 
, special thermometers for, 

III. ?>zz frontispiece. 
, value of, in stewing, 107 
Smelt, easy of digestion, 185 



Smith, Mr. L. O., of Stockholm, 
plan of cooking adopted by, 
116 

Soda, use of, in cooking vegetables, 

105 
Soda-water, English, trustworthy, 

245 
Sole, easy of digestion, 185 
, wasteful process of cleaning, 

189 
Soup : fish, 144, 198, 199 
, clear vegetable, receipt for, 

147 
, Gouffi's directions for mak- 
ing, 289 

, haricot, 76 

, purees, 136, 143, 148 

, turtle, 145 

, white, 229 

Soups, almost unknown to the 

working man, 136 
, an initial course at dinners, 

219, 229 
, author's receipt for cheap 

nutritious, 296, 297 

, excellence of French, 138 

, garnitures for, 148 

, how varieties are made, 142 

, judgment required in 

flavouring, 149 

, nomenclature, 141 

, use of fresh vegetables 

advocated, 137 
Southern Europe, foods consumed 

in.SS 

Spain, food consumed by inhabi- 
tants of, 56 

Spinach, 47 

Stachys tuberifera, a Japanese 
vegetable recently introduced 
into England, 176 note 

Starchy matters present in food, 
23. 24. 45> 46, il 



Index. 



3" 



Steaming often preferable to boil- 
ing, lOS 

Stewing, effective, io6, 107 

Stimulants, 18, 64 

at meals, 237-242 

Stock-pot, the, 138-140 

Sturgeon, value as food, 188 

Sugar, 48 

Succotash (see Maize), 86 

Sweden, food consumed, 58 

Sweets, at the modern dinner, 231, 
23s 



Tapioca, 46 

Tea, 48 

, afternoon, characteristics of, 

217 

Temperatures in cookery, experi- 
ments on, 97 

Thackeray's lines on bouillabaisse, 
146 note 

Thornback, a cheap fish, 187 

Toasts at public dinners, sugges- 
tions concerning, 273-276 

Tobacco, effects of, 238 

, coffee, a natural ally, 243 

Tomato, 47 

, simple cookery alone ad- 
missible, 160 

, uncooked and in salads, 

174 

Tropics, food in the, 29, 54 

Trufiles, 47 

, French and English de- 
scribed, 270 note 

, in salad, 175 

, remarks on, 270 

, when in season, 257 note 

Tubers and roots, constituents of, 

45 

, foods derived from, 46 

Turbot, a substantial food, 185 



Turnip, constituents of the, 46 

Turtle soup, 145 

, controversy respecting, 145 

note 
Typhoid fever epidemics caused 

by tainted milk, 205 

U 

United Kingdom, consumption 
of imported foods per head of 
population, 66 



Vegetable feeders, 26 
Vegetable food, its components, 

25 

, not always digested by the 

stomach, 50 
Vegetable cookery, French and 

English, 156-159 
Vegetable-eating animals, anato 

mical peculiarities of, 31 
Vegetable soups, 147 
Vegetables, boiling of, 104 
, dried and compressed, 

flavour destroyed in the pro- 
cess, 137 
, fresh, scarcity in London, 

2S0 
, garden, largely used in 

France, 56 

, green, 47, S7, 58, 156 

Vegetarian, a misleading term, 27 
, consumers of animal foods, 

27 
Vegetarianism successful under 

certain conditions, 36 
Veloute or white sauce, 151 
Vermicelli, a valuable food, 46 
Vinegar, largely made from grain, 

46 



312 



Index. 



w 

Warren cooking-pot, 99-104 

Water, aerated, 244 

as a constituent of all living 

bodies, 23, 179-182 
. dangers from drinking 

impure, 246 

in cereals, etc., 43-4S 

, London supply, 244 

, mineral, 247 

should be boiled, 246 

Watercress as a garnish, 125 
Water-melon at dinner, 248 
Wheat, composition of, 43 

, value as food, 73, 78 

Whey, a wholesome beverage, 

210 
Whitebait dinners, Greenwich, 

234 
Whiting, easy of digestion, 1S5 
Whole wheat-meal bread, 73, 78 

, best form of baking, 79, 80 

Whole-meal cakes, receipt for, 79 



Williams, Mr. M., on the Chemis- 
try of Food, 83, 84, 123 

Wines, 48, 220, 232 

, use and abuse of at meals, 

237-240, 242 

, how to secure fine quality, 

240 

Wolf-fish or cat-fish, value as food, 
187 

Working-man, dietary of the, 72- 

75. 85 

, hints for improving, 297 

Wyvem's " Culinary Jottings," 

168 note 



Yam, constituents of, 46 



Zakuska (the Russian hors- 
d'oeuvre), service of, 222 



FKINTSa BY WILLIAM CLUWBS AND SONS, LIMITED, LONDON AND BECCLES. 




This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 





RADCLIFFE COLLEGE LIBRARY! 



ARY( 



WOMAN'S ARCHIVES 

Gift of . 4»| 

Harvard College LiTararj 





/ y \ 






j 



/Google 



Digitized by ^ 



FOOD AND FEEDING 



f 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



FOOD AND FEEDING 



BY 

SIR HENRY THOMPSON 

F.R.C.S., M.B. LX>ND., BTC 



WITH AN APPENDIX 




TENTH EDITION 



LONDON 
FREDERICK WARNE AND CO. 

AND NEW YORK 
1898 



Digitized by 



Google 



^4 7 



Digitized by 



Google 



PREFACE TO THE NINTH 
EDITION 

ENLARGED AND REVISED 



During the last few years several large editions of 
this book have been called for, and much new matter 
has been added to three or four of them. 

The last edition has, however, been exhausted, and 
the work is out of print. I propose in this, my final 
edition, to bring the subject up to the present date, 
and to utter my last words respecting it. For 
scientific research, never ceasing to progress, has 
naturally added something to our knowledge of the 
digestive processes, during the last few years, as well 
as of the value to man of certain food-principles from 
which his body derives nutrition. 

The art of cooking also has, like other arts, been 
sedulously cultivated by a few, leading to improve- 
ments in appliances and in the methods to be adopted 
for the preparation of a wholesome and agreeable 
diet. Moreover, the selection of food and the pre- 
paration of it for the table are far more widely 
understood and appreciated now than they were 
when the little volume first appeared nearly twenty 
years ago. 



Digitized by 



Google 



6 Preface. 

In the present and enlarged edition I have 
attempted to classify the various processes employed 
in cookery and its staple products in a more complete 
and natural order than heretofore, and to explain 
more fully the principles on which they are employed, 
the objects aimed at, and the rationale of each 
procedure. 

The subject of "slow cookery" is one which I 
have practically studied of late with much interest, 
and I have recorded the result of various experiments. 
I am satisfied that in cooking food, especially that 
derived from the animal kingdom, the longer applica- 
tion of low temperatures will render it more easily 
digestible and nutritious, as well as more agreeable 
than the old methods. By these latter I mean the 
long-established custom of cooking "joints" by the 
highest temperature obtainable through boiling water, 
or radiation from a fire in the course of two or three 
hours, viz. the familiar processes of "boiling" and 
'* roasting " respectively. 

I venture to hope that the numerous elementary 
observations and practical hints relating to the very 
wide subject of Food and Feeding which have thus 
been brought together may prove useful, and tend 
to promote' a still wider appreciation of one of the 
most important and interesting branches of inquiry 
demanded by the necessities of life and social 
intercourse. 

35, WiMPOLE Street, 
June^ 189& 



Digitized by 



Google 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER L 

PAGE 

Importance of proper selection and preparation of food — Improper 
feeding common among all classes, and at all periods of life 
— The purpose and the elements of food — ^To repair the waste 
of the body, to maintain the animal heat, and provide a store 
of energy for activity — I. The proteids, or nitrogenous 
elements — 2. The hydro-carbons, or fats— 3, Carbo-hydrates 
— ^4. Inorganic elements : water, various salts — All these 
obtainable from animal and vegetable kingdoms — Comparison 
between elements derived from the two sources — Difference 
between digestive organs in animals eating only vegetables 
and those consuming animal food also — Man accustomed to 
" a mixed diet " — ^In some regions can live only on animal food 
— Climate decides proportion of animal food necessary — Few 
persons can live solely on vegetables in temperate zone — 
Mixed diet of monkey tribes — Personal peculiarities in 
diet — Desirable to utilize all sources of food from both 
kingdoms 13 



CHAPTER II. 

Materials at man's command for food from the vegetable kingdom 
— Seeds cultivated becoming grain, or cereal foods, as wheat 
and its derivatives, flour, wheaten bread — Oats and oatmeal — 
Maize and Indian com meal, polenta — Rice — Legumes: 
haricots and lentils, etc. — Potato— Roots, the carrot, etc, 
arrowroot — Fatty matters from seeds, nuts, etc. — Green 
vegetables — Gourds — Fungi — Fruits and bananas — Analyses 
of their composition, showing comparative amounts of proteids, 
carbo-hydrates, fats, salts, and water — Sugar — Tea, coffee. 



Digitized by 



Google 



8 Contents. 



PACK 

and cacao — Common salt — Importance of perfect mastication 
of food by the teeth in relation to digestion explained and 
insisted upon 42 



CHAPTER III. 

Foods from the animal kingdom — Domestic animals and their 
derivatives, milk, butter, and cheese — Deer and its varieties 
— Ground game — Large foreign game — Birds, domestic and 
other— Fish in great variety — " Shell-fish " — Reptiles — Man 
omnivorous ; nature of food largely determined by circum- 
stances ; prone to consume too much animal food, or to be 
careless in regard to selection of diet — Table showing the 
proportion of food-principles necessary to the daily dietary of 
an average adult, taking a moderate amount of exercise, in a 
temperate climate 51 

CHAPTER IV. 

Food of the English peasant — Food of the middle class generally 
too solid or stimulating — Tending to corpulence as age advances 
— The cause of chronic complaints in later years — The produce 
of land in grain with pigs and poultry larger than when devoted 
solely to grazing — Value of fish as an article of diet — Supply 
ought to be more abundant and cheaper — Regimen suited to the 
sedentary and those who are chiefly brain-workers — Elementary 
principles in selecting, combining, and cooking different forms 
of food — That of the agricultural labourer and other hard 
workers— The legumes : haricots, lentik — Various modes of 
cooking them — ^Also hints for their use at middle-class tables — 
Bread made of whole wheat-meal and its use — Receipts for 
making it — Combination of elements to produce a complete 
food — Cheese as diet for the working man : its use by the 
Swiss guides — Rice, and the necessary additions to make with 
it palatable, nutritious dishes — The potato, and similar com- 
binations 61 

CHAPTER V. 

Food of the middle-class Englishman, and its routine — Cookery, 
the process of rendering food digestible and nutritious by heat 
— First, heat applied through water — (a) Boiling — ^The process 



Digitized by 



Google 



Cofttents. 9 

PACK 

described —The effect of temperature in coagulating albumen — 
Treatment of meat in cooking depends solely on this action — 
Temperatures observed by thermometer during process of 
boiling and roasting — System of slow cooking at low tempe- 
ratures—The "Bain Marie "—Captain Warren's pot— The 
Norwegian cooker — Boiling of vegetables — {b) Steaming — {c) 
Stewing and braising — The distinction between them — Slow 
cooking at low temperatures and its value — Receipt for cooking 
a ham thus in thirty-six hours — Bcmfh la mode . . • 90 



CHAPTER VI. 

Secondly, cooking by dry heat in hot air — (tf) Baking — In dry 
compartments heated by steam — Becker's process and others 
— Atkinson's American oven — The English kitchener — {b) 
Roasting — The " taste of the fire " — Its attractive peculiarity 
— {c) Broiling, another illustration of this — The process ex- 
plained-^The third method, cooking by high temperature in 
heated oil or frying — Process explained — A careful attention 
to minute particulars necessary to insure success — The omelette 
— Opposite principles in French and English cookery con- 
sidered — Superiority of each in certain particulars . . .US 



CHAPTER VII. 

Soups — Not sufficiently esteemed — Better understood in France — 
Pot-au-fou—The, ** stock-pot "—Boui/lon—ConsommJ— Endless 
varieties produced from these — Three distinct classes of soup — 
I. The clear : of meat, fowl, and game ; and vegetables or 
maigre—2. The thick or /wr/^-j; of the same — ^Various illustra- 
tions of these — 3. More substantial soups : turtle, ox-tail, and 
other examples — Bouillabaisse — Soups, gras and tnaigre — 
Receipts for vegetable soup — Practical hints in making the 
above 136 



CHAPTER VIII. 

Sauces — The two chief foundation sauces, the brown or Espa- 
gnoUy the white or JWiW/"/— Their derivatives — English melted 
\imAX — MaUre {rHotel—Ravigotte, etc.— Author's receipt 
for Bigarade sauce — Garnishes — Their variety and use in 



Digitized by 



Google 



10 Contents. 



supplementing dishes — Cookery of vegetables d PAnglaise and 
d, la Franfaisa— The tomato — Macaroni — Best modes for pre- 
paring for the table — Rice : various ways of preparing — The 
value of mincing in preparing flesh for food — Cold meats, the 
service of— Aspic jelly — Salads, in variety . . . .150 



CHAPTER IX. 

Fish, and its value as food — ^The various constituents of flesh, of 
wheaten bread, and of fish compared — ^Analytic table, showing 
the same — Fish is desirable food for many persons — Ought to 
be less costly than it is — Varieties of fish, and their distinctive 
characters as food — Some contain large proportion of fat — The 
conger and the sturgeon — Preparation of fish for the table- 
Value of head, bones, and fins for sauce making — Fish sauces 
— Salmon in perfection — Crimping of ditto — Mode of cooking 
it — Baking of fish — Roasting and broiling — Boiling and steam- 
ing — Fish soups and stews, excellent — Receipts — Bouillabaisse 
— A working man's stew 178 



CHAPTER X. 

Milk, an example of a natural ** complete " food — That of the cow 
is its type — Its use as food almost universal — Essentially an 
animal food — ^Most important that it should be pure and un- 
contaminated — Being very susceptible of injury, in distribu- 
tion and otherwise, thus becomes a fertile source of 
disease — Many epidemics of fever, etc., caused by the milk 
trade — Tuberculous milk — Analysis, and nutritive value — 
Milk essentially food for the young growing animal — Whey 
— Koumiss — Strict sanitary measures employed to ensure the 
purity and wholesomeness of milk — Prudence requires it to 
be generally regarded as a raw product, to be taken only 
after boiling, especially by travellers abroad .... 202 



CHAPTER XL 

The combination of dishes to form a meal — Three typical systems 
of arranging daily meals — ^The French or Continental — The 
provincial (Great Britain) — That of town life (London) — 



Digitized by 



Google 



Contents. 1 1 

VAGB 

Characteristics of each meal — Breakfast — Lunch — Dinner, of 
two kinds : the jfamily meals, the dinner of invitation — ^The 
rationale of the initial soup — Plan of dishes to follow dis- 
cussed — Hors-^ctuvres — More in vogue on the Continent than 
in this country — Most of all in Russia — As a dietetic habit, it 
\& undesirable for reasons given 214 



CHAPTER XII. 

Dinners of invitation — Two kinds : small and select ; large but 

complete — The old pretentious style described — Scheme of a 

rational dinner-party — Priority in the service of various courses 

' or dishes discussed — Dessert — The quart cTheure after dinner 

— Turtle and fish dinners — Curry — Sketch for a small dinner . 225 



CHAPTER Xin. 

The question of wine with dinner — Remarks on the habitual use 
of alcoholic drinks of any kind — Wine should be taken chiefly 
during dinner, never before, not much, if any, after — Should 
be sound and pure, and without pretence — How to attain 
this — Relation of various wines with certain dishes — Cigarettes 
after dinner — Tobacco suggests coffee, and is incompatible 
with fine wine — The supply of water at dinner — Aerated 
waters — Foreign mineral waters — Their use at home and 
abroad — Sweet drinks at dinner objectionable , . . 237 



CHAPTER XIV. 

In order to arrange a dinner some practical acquaintance with food 
is necessary — Also of the season at which various kinds are 
in perfection — The art of nunu writing — The scheme or 
elementary outline of a dinner — Menus should be written 
in French — Examples of simple menus for each month in the 
year — Some in English, chiefly in French, for comparison — 
Menus of higher character — Further remarks on the order in 
which dishes should be presented — And on other matters 
arising out of the subject 2^9 



Digitized by 



Google 



12 Contents. 



CHAPTER XV. 

PACK 

The public dinner — Its undue length — Toasts too numerous — 
Suggestions for shortening the proceedings — Good cookery 
independent of pedantic and complicated receipts — Schools 
of cookery — Elementary scientific teaching wanted to make 
cookery interesting and a progressive art — Better food, in 
better condition, and in more abundant supply, a pressing 
want for London — Conclusion 272 



APPENDIX 

On the Pot-au-Feu, Soups, etc. 

Pot-au'feu : Jules Gouffe*s instructions for making it — Gouffe's in- 
structions for braising — Bauf d la mode — ^Vegetable Soup — 
Author's directions for beef-tea— Table of French equivalents 
for the English words denoting fish, as a guide in writing 
menus — Table showing when fish is in season — Children's 
dinner tables — Author's receipt for cheap, nutritious soup — 
The dinner of the working man, and Mr. Atkinson's sug- 
gestions respecting it , . 285 



INDEX 



301 



Digitized by 



Google 



FOOD AND FEEDING 



CHAPTER L 

Importance of proper selection and preparation of food — 
Improper feeding common among all classes, and at all 
periods of life—The purpose and the elements of food — ^To 
repair the waste of the body, to maintain the animal heat, 
and provide a store of energy for activity — i. The proteids, 
or nitrogenous elements — 2. The hydro-carbons, or fats — 
3. Carbo-hydrates — 4. Inorganic elements : water, various 
salts — All these obtainable from animal and vegetable 
kingdoms — Comparison between elements derived from the 
two sources — Difference between digestive organs in animals 
eating only vegetables and those consuming animal food 
also — Man accustomed to " a mixed diet " — In some regions 
can live only on animal food — Climate decides proportion 
of animal food necessary — Few persons can live solely on 
vegetables in temperate zone — Mixed diet of monkey tribes 
— Personal peculiarities in diet — Desirable to utilize all 
sources of food from both kingdoms. 

I THINK I shall not be far wrong if I say that there 
are few subjects which deserve more choice of 
careful study by man than the selection important 
and preparation of his food. Our fore- study, 
fathers in their wisdom have provided, by ample and 
generously endowed organizations, for the dissemina- 
tion of moral precepts in relation to human conduct, 



Digitized by 



Google 



14 Food and Feeding. 

and for the constant supply of sustenance to meet 
the cravings of religious emotions common to all 
sorts and conditions of men. In these provisions no 
student of human nature can fail to recognize the 
spirit of wisdom and a lofty purpose. But it is not a 
sign of ancestral wisdom that so little thought has 
been bestowed on the teaching of what we should eat 
and drink ; or on the relations necessarily existing 
not only between food and a healthy population, but 
between food and a virtuous life. 

Indeed, the process of digestion and the influence 
it exerts on the sources of mental and moral power, 
have received little attention in any scheme for 
fitting men and women for the practical duties of 
life. No doubt the truth has long been accepted, at 
all events by intelligent persons, that a man's temper, 
and consequently the character of his actions, often 
depend on the contingency that what he eats is pro- 
perly converted, or not, into healthy material, suitable 
for the ceaseless work of building up both muscle 
The relation and brain. But the truth of that fact 
fooT^ has never been generally admitted to an 

character. extent at all comparable with its exceed- 
ing importance. It produces no practical result 
on the habits of men in the least degree com- 
mensurate with the claim it has to be believed and 
acted upon. For it is certain that an adequate prac- 
tical recognition of the value of proper food to the 
individual in maintaining a high standard of health, 
in prolonging healthy life (the prolongation of 



Digitized by 



Google 



Its Influence in Childhood. 15 

unhealthy life being small gain either to the individual 
or to the community), and thus largely promoting 
cheerful temper, prevalent good nature, and improved 
moral tone, would achieve almost a revolution in the 
habits of a large part of the community. 

The general outlines of a man's mental character 
and physical tendencies are doubtless influence of 
largely determined by the impress of '^^^ 
race and family. That is to say, the scheme of the 
building, its characteristics and dimensions, are in- 
herited ; but to a very large extent the materials 
and filling in of the individual's framework depend, 
in regard of their quality, upon his food -^ 
and training. By the latter term may of food and 
be understood all that relates to mental 
and moral and even to physical education, assumed 
to be fairly provided for, and not to be considered 
here. No matter, then, how consummate, the scheme 
of the architect, nor how vast the design, more or 
less of failure to rear the edifice results when the 
materials are ill chosen or for the most part un- 
worthy to be used. Other sources of failure there 
may be which it is no part of my business to note ; 
but the influence of food is not only itself cardinal 
in rank, but, by priority of action, is the source of 
various forces, injurious or the reverse, as the case 
may be. 

A very slight sketch of the course of development 
observed in the most ordinary types of human life will 
suffice to illustrate this truth. 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 6 Food and Feeding. 

To commence, then, I fear it must be admitted that 

_ , the majority of British infants are reared 

Jbrrors in 

f eedins^ in- on imperfect milk by weak or ill-fed 
"***• mothers. And thus it follows that the 

signs of feeble vitality, of fretful disposition or of 
disease, may be observed at a very early age, and 
are apparent in symptoms of indigestion or in the 
cravings of want manifested by the " peevish " and 
sleepless child. In circumstances where there is no 
want of appropriate nutriment, over-feeding or com- 
plicated forms of food, suitable only for older persons, 
produce for another infant troubles which are no less 
grave than those of the class whose supply is impure 
or deficient 

In the next stage of life, when infancy has been 
Children passed and childhood is attained, among 

often iU-fed, the poor, the little one takes his place 
at the parents' table, where lack of means, as 
well as of knowledge, deprives him of food more 
suitable than the rough fare of the adult, and more- 
over obtains for him, perchance, his little share of 
tea, or even of beer or gin. On the whole, perhaps 
he is not much worse off than the child of the well- 
to-do, who becomes a pet, and is already familiarized 
with complex and too solid forms of food, as well as 
with stimulating drinks, which custom and self- 
^^^^ indulgence have placed on the daily 

frequent in- table. And soon afterwards commence 
disposition; . j ^' i . 

m consequence — and entirely m conse- 
quence, a fact it is impossible too much to emphasize 



Digitized by 



Google 



During Period of Growth. 17 

— the " sick headaches *' and " bilious attacks," which 

pursue their victim through half a lifetime, to be 

exchanged for gout or worse at or before the 

grand climacteric. And so common are these evils 

that they are regarded by people in general as a 

necessary appanage of " poor humanity," and together 

with measles or hooping cough, to be part of the 

natural and necessary development of the full-grown 

and complete man! No notion can be 

, , most com- 

more erroneous, since it is absolutely true plaints so 

that the complaints referred to are self- ^'**^* 
engendered, form no necessary part of our physical 
nature, and for their existence are dependent almost 
entirely on our habits in relation to food and drink. 
I except, of course, those cases in which hereditary 
tendency is so strong as to produce certain evils, 
some special care notwithstanding, exercised on be- 
half of the unfortunate victim of an ancestor's self- 
indulgence. Equally, however, on the part of that 
little-to-be-revered progenitor were ill-chosen food 
and drink, or more probably an excessive indulgence 
in the quantity thereof, the cause of his disease, and 
not the physical nature of man. 

The next stage of boyhood transfers the child just 
spoken of to a public school, where too . 
often insufficient or inappropriate diet, food at 
at the most critical period of gjrowth, has . 
led to the habit of supplementing the supply from 
other sources. It is almost unnecessary to say that 
chief among them are those unsuitable purveyors, the 

B 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 8 Food and Feeding. 

pastrycook and the vendor of portable provisions, 
with their wares of questionable character consumed 
not at meal times, but at irregular hours. Many an 
unhappy dyspeptic owes his complaint to a confirmed 
habit of taking such, or indeed any food in the 
intervals between regular meals, when the stomach 
ought to be at rest 

After this period arise the temptations to drink, 
_ J among the youth of all classes, whether 

habits of at beerhouse, tavern, or club. For it 

^' has been taught in the bosom of the 

family, by the father's example and by the mother's 
precept, that wine, beer, and spirits are useful, nay, 
necessary to health, even for young persons, and that 
they augment or sustain the strength. And the 
lessons thus inculcated and too well learned have 
proved to be the steps which lead to wider experience 
in the pursuit of health and strength by larger use 
of the same means. Under such circumstances it 
often happens, as the youth grows up, that a flagging 
appetite or a failing digestion habitually demands a 
dram before or between meals, and that these latter 
are regarded rather as occasions to indulge in variety 
of liquor than as repasts for nourishing the body. It 
is not surprising, with such training, that the true 
object of both eating and drinking is entirely lost 
sight of The gratification of acquired tastes usurps 
the function of that zest which healthy appetite pro- 
duces ; and the intention that food should be adapted 
to the physical needs of the body and the healthy 



Digitized by 



Google 



Evil of Drinking Habits. 19 

action of the mind is forgotten altogether. So it 

often comes to pass that at middle age, g^. - 

when man finds himself in the full earljrindi- 

srcsuon thust 
current of life s occupations, struggling 

for pre-eminence with his fellows, indigestion has 
become persistent in some of its numerous forms, 
shortens his ''staying power," or impairs his judg- 
ment or temper. And, besides all this, how apparent 
it is that few causes are more potent than an incom- 
petent stomach to engender habits of selfishness and 
egotism. A constant care to provide little personal 
wants of various kinds, thus rendered necessary, 
developes the growth of these sentiments, and they 
influence the man's whole character in consequence. 
On the other hand, the poor man, ad- andother- 
vancing in years, shows signs of damage ^^ caused, 
to his constitution from continuous toil with inade- 
quate food, the supply of which is often diminished 
by his expenditure for beer, which, although not 
seldom noxious, he regards as the elixir of life, 
never to be missed when fair occasion for obtaining 
it is offered. Many of this class are prematurely 
crippled by articular disease, etc., and become per- 
manent inmates of the parish workhouse or infirmary. 
It must be obvious to every one how much more 
of detail might be added to fill in the outlines of this 
little sketch. It is designed rather to be suggestive 
than complete, and thus it amply suffices for my 
purpose; other illustrations will occur to any ob- 
server who cares to pursue the subject further. 



Digitized by 



Google 



20 Food and Feeding. 

But it is necessary to say here, and I desire to 
««x »» • ^^y ^^ emphatically, that this question of 
food to be food need not, even with the views just 
^ ^ ® • enunciated, be treated in an ascetic spirit. 
The selection of food is to be considered in relation 
to a principle, in which we may certainly believe, 
An • ter St- "^^^'x* ^^^* aliments most adapted to 
ing subject develop the individual, sound in body 
and mind, shall not only be acceptable 
to the palate, but that they may be selected 
and prepared so as to afford scope for the exercise 
of a refined taste, and produce a fair degree of an 
innocent pleasure naturally associated with the act 
of eating, and derived from a study of the table. 
For it is certain that most of the results of culinary 
taste met with in English society until late years, has 
often been the result of faith without knowledge ; and 
no more a source of gratification to the eater's gusta- 
tory sense than of digestible sustenance to his body. 
The subject of this little work will therefore take 
the following form in regard of the 
food to the matter, and the method of considering 
^ ^' it Food must first be regarded in re- 

lation to its value as material to be used for building 
up and sustaining the activity of that composite 
structure, the human body, under the varied con- 

,. ^ * ditions in which it may be placed. 
2. Modes of ^ ^ 

preparing Secondly, the selection of food, and the 

best modes of preparing it, resulting in 

the production of "the dish," a subject of great 



Digitized by 



Google 



Uses of Food. The Proteids. 21 

extent and importance, must be dealt with so far 
as the limits of my design will permit 3. Art of 
Lastly, the exercise of taste in relation ^ishes*]^ 
to the serving of food and drink, or "a meal." 
the art of combining dishes to form " a meal," must 
also be considered in relation to various purposes. 

We have to consider, first, what constitutes food 
for man. Its objects are threefold — ^to The objects 
repair the daily waste of the body itself, ^^^^ 
a necessary consequence of life and its activity; to 
maintain the natural heat of the body, always in our 
climate a temperature many degrees above that of 
the surrounding media, whether earth, air, or water ; 
lastly, to provide the means of supplying energy to 
support an active existence. 

For this purpose, fresh elements similar to those 
of which the body is composed, must be Necessary 
furnished to it in such form and pro- ©dements, 
portions as to repair the loss. Additional elements 
must be supplied, by the oxidation of which more 
heat and energy are produced in proportion to the 
existing demand. All these are only to be obtained 
through digestion, and must be acquired in response 
to the instinctive demands of hunger and thirst. 

These elements are regarded as divisible into four 
distinct classes, as follows : — 

I. The Proteids. — This group contains an essential 
element for renewing the tissues of the ^^ 1^^ pj.^. 
body, named "protein," without which ^i^s: 
life is impossible, since starvation must take place 



Digitized by 



Google 



22 Food and Feeding. 

unless a sufficient quantity is supplied by food. It 
is a definite compound of carbon, oxygen, and 
hydrogen with nitrogen, but often associated with 
a little sulphur and phosphorus also. ** Proteids " 
fromani- ^^^ found in all animals used as food 

mals ; ^y man ; and also in many produc- 

tions of the vegetable kingdom — from which two 
sources the body can alone be supplied. We find 
the proteid element abundantly in lean meat, the 
muscle of animals, where it is known as "myosin," 
also in the blood and other parts as " fibrin." There 
are, moreover, two modifications of nitrogenous com- 
pounds allied to, but not identical with, true proteids, 
viz. "gelatin" and " chondrin," in bones and cartilage 
respectively. Proteids are largely present in eggs, 
forming " albumen," or what is familiarly known as 
the " white of eggs ; " and in milk' as " casein," the 
nitrogenous constituent of cheese. Again, in wheat, 
from vege- and existing therefore in bread, in smaller 
tabes. proportion, as "gluten;" and in the 

leguminous seeds (peas and beans) abundantly, as 
" legumin," which is almost identical with " casein." 

2. The hydro-carbons, or fatty matters, carbon, 

2. The hydro- hydrogen, and oxygen, in a certain pro- 
carbons, portion, are also necessary for nutrition ; 
and these may be obtained also from both animals 
and vegetables. 

3. Carbo-hydrates, also carbon, hydrogen, and 

3. Thecarbo- oxygen, but in different proportions 
hydrates. from those of the preceding class, not 



Digitized by 



Google 



Fats^ Carbo-hydrates, Salts. 23 

absolutely essential to life like the proteids, although 
they are most desirable elements of food. They 
are largely furnished by the vegetable kingdom, 
consisting chiefly of the starches of all grain, roots, 
and tubers, with the sugars and the gums ; in milk 
they exist as milk sugar, or " lactose." 

4. Lastly, there are certain products no less essential 
than the first class, all belonging solely 4. inorganic 
to the inorganic or mineral kingdom, wate^«ats, 
namely, water in large quantity, with etc. 
various salts of soda, lime, magnesia, potash, traces 
of iron, and other metals. All these must be present 
in the food supplied, and are obtained in all ordinary 
forms of food from both animal and vegetable sources. 

Meantime, as a result of chemical changes which 
take place in every portion of the body How 
through the assimilation of all these «i*^«<l- 
elements, chiefly by oxidation, heat is produced ; 
while not only the proteids, but also the fatty matters 
and the carbo-hydrates of our food, as well as the 
inorganic constituents, are utilized in the repair of 
wasted tissues. 

Thus we may regard the human body as a complex 
and highly organized machine, adapted ^ complex 

to execute work of varied but specific machine, 

self-supply- 
kind, but one which is self-supplying ingand 

by means of food, and also automatically ^®P*"'"*8:« 

regenerates itself in order to maintain a condition of 

good repair. 

Thus, any material which is competent to supply 



Digitized by 



Google 



24 Food and Feeding. 

these requirements is a complete or perfect food. 
Examples of complete food exist in milk and the 
egg, sufficing as these do for all the wants of the 
young animal during the period of early growth. 
Nevertheless, a single animal product like either of 
the two named, although complex in itself, is not 
more perfect than an artificial combination of various 
simpler substances, provided the mixture (dish or 
meal) contains all the elements required in due pro- 
portion for the purposes of the body. 

Now, as above seen, all these constituent elements 
of the food, the proteids, the fats, and the carbo- 
hydrates, together with the inorganic salts, may be ob- 
tained both from the animal and vegetable kingdoms. 

The wide range of animals available in the endless 
Animal forms of " flesh, fish, and fowl," to name 

sources, them in popular terms, need not be 

further enumerated at present This subject will be 
more fully considered hereafter. 

The vegetable kingdom may be held to com- 
vegetable prehend the following list : the cereals, 
sources, namely, wheat, oats, barley, maize, rice, 

etc. ; the legumes ; the nuts and their oil ; roots and 
tubers ; starches, gums, and sugars ; green vegetables, 
herbs, and fruits. 

But there is a marked difference in the kind of 

provision afforded on comparing the 
vary in value 
and in products of the two kingdoms. While 

quan ty. ^j^^ vegetable kingdom is conspicuous 

for the plenty and value of the carbo-hydrates present. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Vegetable Food, its Components. 25 

it will be seen that the proteids, as well as the fats, 
are not only less bountifully supplied, but exist in 
a form generally not so well adapted for man's 
digestion as those which are obtained from the 
animal kingdom. The most valuable proteid of the 
vegetable kingdom, since it is easily assimilated by 
the human stomach, is furnished in moderate quantity 

by certain members of the cereal class ^. 

Gluten, 
above named, viz. " gluten," and is con- 
sumed for the most part here in the form of wheaten 
bread. Next comes the extensive order of leguminous 
plants, beans, peas, and lentils, which, containing a 

very considerable amount of the proteid 

Leg^iunui. 
" legumin," or " vegetable casein," furnish 

cheap and excellent food, although inferior to wheaten 

bread, which contains less of the nitrogenous element 

It is quite true that chemical analysis shows the 

presence of a larger proportion of that element, the 

legumin, in dried peas, lentils, or haricots, than is 

found in an equal weight of butcher's meat, of its 

corresponding proteid. But, on the other hand, 

none of the former furnish a proteid in so digestible 

a form as that of beef or mutton, many human 

stomachs failing to digest easily the leguminous 

product* From the flesh of animals man acquires its 

* For further information respecting this indubitable fact, 
see the work below named, where it is attentively and impartially 
considered. The tabulated result is given of carefully made 
experiments by Fr. Hofmann, on the power of man*s digestive 
organs to assimilate the nitrogenous elements (albumen) from 
animal and vegetable sources respectively. From the data 



Digitized by 



Google 



26 Food and Feeding. 

products readily, and if he happen to be a delicate 

. . invalid, unable to digest solid food, an 

Supenonty 
of animal infusion of the meat, together with some 

protdda, purie of the flesh, will yield sustenance 

of the greatest value in an easily assimilated form. 

No such treatment of the beans will produce an 

equivalent, and their special proteid ''casein," like 

cheese, its congener in milk, is then quite unsuitable. 

The lower animals, living on vegetables only, have 

stomachs and allied organs widely differing from our 

own, specially adapted to deal with vegetable foods, 

and to convert them into flesh. Thus it is that oxen 

and sheep, exclusively vegetable feeders as they are, 

consuming only grass and a few roots, produce 

largely and rapidly the necessary proteids in the 

form of flesh, as man himself is wholly incapable of 

doing, and meat thus becomes for him a concentrated 

food of exceeding value, admirably adapted to his 

•, . ^. digestive system. The need for an 

Valuable 

to the abundant supply of easily digestible 

labourer. proteids to sustain the hard-working 

inhabitants of the British islands is obvious. And 
hence it is, that almost all those who ordinarily 

supplied, it appears that while four-fifths of the albumen con- 
sumed from animal sources are digested (8i parts in the loo), 
not quite half (46*6 in the 100) is digested of albumen derived 
from vegetable sources, cereals, legumes, etc. This is cor- 
roborated by other experiments made by Rubner. 

" Food in Health and Disease," by I. Bumey Yeo, M.D., 
F.R.C.P., Physician to King's College Hospital, etc. (Cassell, 
1896), p. i^S,etseg. 



Digitized by 



Google 



The Child Reared on Milk, 27 

classify themselves as "vegetarians," a numerous 
body of earnest adherents to a rule which Hence 
forbids them to eat flesh, are mostly ^j^g'.. „gg 
compelled to consume not only milk, them largely, 
butter, and cheese, but also eggs,* all of which are 
nevertheless choice foods from the animal kingdom. 
In these the proteids are largely present, 
also fats in abundance, and in forms 
better adapted to the human stomach than are olive- 
oil, cotton-seed oil, and various nut-oils, the fats of 
the vegetable world. 

It is most desirable, therefore, that an intelligible 
definition should be framed to indicate <«veee- 

accurately the diet thus erroneously de- **F**"»" * 

tnisleading 
scribed as " vegetarian." This can only and inaccu- 

denote a dietary containing foods pro- used by a 

duced by the vegetable kingdom, and ^^® ^^^ 

can by no possibility be accurately, that is, honestly, 

used to include anything else. At any rate, it must, 

before all things, exclude the use of the specific 

proteids and fats, which animals have produced in 

a concentrated form (milk) for the pur- __.„ 

^ ' ^ Milk, con- 

pose of insuring a healthy, rapid, and centrated 

generous growth for their offspring, "^ ^^ ^ 

when they are too young to eat any vegetable food, 

and could not digest it if they did. In no single 

* Every t,%g contains a chicken ! that is, the entire material 
wherewith to make one; and requires nothing to produce a 
living animal but a little rise of temperature, 103° or 104° Fahr., 
either naturally or artificially applied. 



Digitized by 



Google 



28 Food and Feeding. 

instance is the young of the mammals, to which 
necessary for ^^^^^ "^«^^ belongs, capable of feeding 

infant life on any vegetable product, whether 

tnroiis^li*" 

out the natural or artificially blended, during in- 

™°'°'*^ fancy and early childhood. And when 

the mother's milk is deficient, or naturally ceases, that 

of the cow, slightly modified, but containing animal 

proteids, fats, carbo-hydrates, and salts, best serves to 

maintain healthy condition, and confer full growing 

power on the young and active animal. All forms 

of vegetables are non-digestible by the infantile 

organs, and when given too early, as they not 

infrequently are, produce great disturbance, diarrhoea, 

colic, and, by no means rarely, fatal results. Not 

until some teeth have appeared is the child, as a 

rule, ready to make its first trial of vegetable food ; 

and, for the first year, or even more, of life, it will 

generally thrive better on wholesome milk than on 

,. ^ any substitute. Thus man is born into 
Man bom 

an animal the world a consumer of animal food, 

fee er. ^^^ .^ j^ j^^ ^j^^ "vegetarian" to show 

cause for determining at what age, if at any, he 
should henceforth be compelled to restrict himself 
to a diet from the vegetable kingdom. 

In another form of abstention — viz. that from 
alcohol in all its forms — which has been of great 
service, and might be far more largely extended, 
with incalculable advantage to the community, the 
practice is clear and defined The " total abstainer " 
means what he says, and does not take his daily or 



Digitized by 



Google 



Which is an Animal Food. 2g 

occasional glass of wine or beer unless strongly 
advised by his doctor, and by no means always then. 
The term "vegetarian" will, assuredly, 
soon cease to have a meaning, if clearly tarian," 
drawn definitions be not adopted to dis- J^j^^for^those 

tinguish the man who consumes only who consume 

a mized die^ 
products of the vegetable kingdom, from 

the man who adds thereto the animal proteids and 
fats which exist richly in eggs, in milk and its 
derivatives. The two individuals support ^^^ means 
life on wholly different dietetic principles ; »<> ™ore than 
the latter being certainly a " mixed feeder " and not 
a vegetarian. It is no part of my duty to discover 
an appropriate definition ; but, in view of the present 
loose practice in regard to dietary, the terms "a 
vegetarian" and simply "a flesh ab- "flesh 
stainer," appear correctly to indicate abstainer." 
respectively the two classes I have described. 

And here let it be remarked that there are indi- 
viduals, a few perhaps, in this country. Many are 
who are strictly vegetable-eaters ; while ^etorSw 
large populations exist on little else in inthetropics. 
the tropics, where a small proportion of animal food 
only is consumed, and that mostly fat On the other 
hand, in northern latitudes, little or in high 
nothing besides animal food is attainable, ^^^|^[|^|^* 
and a vegetarian diet, if procurable, would cannot exist, 
not sustain life in those regions. For climate is an 
important factor in relation to food. Man, wherever 
he exists, has to maintain his body at a constant 



Digitized by 



Google 



30 Food and Feeding. 

temperature of at least 98** Fahr. ; and it is obvious 
that an enormous difference must exist between the 
needs of the individual who lives near the equator 
with all surrounding objects^ at a constant tempera- 
ture of 85® to 95^ and those of one who inhabits 
northern latitudes, where it is continuously below the 
freezing-point, 32^ often to the extent of many 
degrees. In each case the temperature of the body 
must be maintained at 98®, or a little more, or man 
will cease to exist In the large and populous zone 
we inhabit, which forms so extensive a portion of 
Europe, Asia, South Africa, America, and Australasia, 
and very few and is known as the " Temperate Zone," 
tempStiS*^* there are very few persons, indeed, who 
zones. can sustain their health and a fair amount 

of strength for many years on a strictly vegetable 
diet. I have met with a few, but a very few, indi- 
viduals who have been able to assure me that they 
have long enjoyed continuous good health and 
strength upon a diet of bread, made solely from 
flour or meal of any kind, and water, the best green 
vegetables, roots, and fruits, avoiding all milk, butter, 
cheese, and eggs. Hence, it is only possible to 
regard man — considered as an inhabitant of the 
world at large — and manifesting as he does a strong 
and increasing impulse to explore and colonize in 
. any part of the globe, as now naturally 

naturally omnivorous; in other words, possessed 

omnivorous, ^j. ^ constitution which requires a mixed 
diet of animal and vegetable foods for his well-being, 



Digitized by 



Google 



Man naturally Omnivorous. 31 

in relative proportions varying according to tempera- 
ture and activity of life. 

This conclusion is not to be determined by 
inferences drawn from the nature of his teeth, which 
may perhaps offer some indications, but by no 
means any decisive evidence respecting the question, 
although the character of his stomach and intestinal 
canal prove the accuracy of the state- Anatomical 
ments here made. In any case, evidence, 
anatomical evidence only indicates the results of 
a long course of development in the organs of a 
given animal, adapting it to the circumstances by 
which it has been surrounded, with the accommoda- 
tions of structure which have enabled it to survive 
in its struggle for existence, to occupy a prominent 
place in the fauna of its country. The history of 
man's passage through the stages of what is under- 
stood by civilization, indicates that he has gradually 
extended his resources in the matter of food, and 
has long been omnivorous to the extent which cir- 
cumstances have permitted. The present condition 
of his digestive organs as a whole is but the expres- 
sion of what his environments and his energy through 
long ages of evolution have made him. 

In the same manner, the great vegetable feeders 
have acquired special arrangements Anatomical 
already referred to in the "compound gftSi^gl! 
stomachs" of the numerous and im- table feeders, 
portant varieties of " ruminating " animals ; and some, 
like the rabbit, for example, have an enormously large 



Digitized by 



Google 



32 Food and Feeding. 

caecum, which is utilized for the digestion of the 
bulky green food they consume ; while the corre- 
sponding organ in the human subject exists in little 
more than name, being merely a slight dilatation of 
the large intestine. 

For it is a significant and important physiological 
fact, that the digestive apparatus of an animal must 
correspond to the extent of change which its food 
has to undergo in order to convert it into the flesh 
which constitutes the animal consuming it 

Thus if grass, which is very low in the scale of 
vegetable growths, has to be converted into the 
highly composite animal fibre constituting beef and 
mutton, a long and complicated apparatus is required. 
It consists of four stomachs, from the first of which 
after eating, the food is returned into the mouth 
during the act of " chewing the cud," after which it 
is transmitted in turn through the other three, a 
process which confers the characteristic distinction 
of "ruminant" upon the animals referred to. No 
human stomach under any circumstances has the 
power of effecting the changes in question. 

The carnivore, living exclusively on flesh, requires 
for his purpose nothing more than the digestion and 
assimilation of animal tissues identical with those 
already composing his own body. This process, com- 
pared with that above described, is a very simple 
one; and accordingly the stomach and digestive 
organs are far less complex in structure. 

Man holds a position between the two extremes, 



Digitized by 



Google 



The Diet of Monkeys. 33 

with his varied surroundings and his ability to select 
and adapt; for he possesses the power to support 
life by consuming the best products of the vegetable 
kingdom, and also all animal foods, suitable to his 
purpose and tastes. The animal fibres of fishes, birds, 
and tender meat, with the concentrated extracts of 
the latter, being identical in nature and form with 
the structures of his own body, are assimilated with 
greater ease than the nitrogenous piroducts of the 
vegetable kingdom. His digestive apparatus is more 
highly developed than that of the carnivore, but more 
closely resembles it than the complicated apparatus 
of the exclusively vegetable feeder. 

Man is therefore manifestly adapted for a mixed 
diet from the animal and vegetable kingdom, and 
must be regarded beyond all controversy as an 
omnivorous animal. 

In respect of teeth, stomach, and intestine, the 
human type closely corresponds with that which 
predominates among the various species of monkey, 
the caecum being rather larger in monkeys than it 
is in man. Monkeys are often spoken The monkey 
of as living exclusively on vegetable ^^ed^^ 
diet, but this is very far from the truth, feeders. 
Moreover, the four genera of anthropoid apes which 
more nearly approach man than any other, viz. the 
gibbons, the orang-outang, gorilla, and chimpanzee, 
in a state of nature obtain their sustenance from 
both animal and vegetable sources.* The numerous 

• See " Anthropoid Apes," by Robert Hartmann, Prof. Univ. 

C 



Digitized by 



Google 



34 Pood and Feeding. 

species of smaller monkeys, as well as the great 
baboons, all ranking lower in the scale of approach 
to man, live largely on insects* and small lizards, 
which abound in the African and South American 
forests ; the baboons preying on eggs and young 
The large birds. The large anthropoids, just re- 
anthropoids, ferred to, also eat eggs and birds as 
well as small mammals, whenever they can get them, 
in addition to the fruits and nuts which form the 
great staple of their diet Their mode of life, largely 
spent on the branches and higher parts of lofty trees, 
affords them great facilities for obtaining such food. 

Few people are aware that the large chimpanzee, 
The chim- SO popular and well known as " Sally," 
and*!?* ^^® in the Zoological Gardens, was not in- 
Berlin. frequently supplied with animal food, 

which she evidently consumed with great satisfaction. 
It has been observed also that the gorillas and 
chimpanzees in the Zoological Gardens at Berlin 
have a marked preference for animal food, of which 
they enjoy a small proportion. As above noticed, 
their organization indicates that while they are 
certainly " mixed feeders " — that is, obtain their food 
from both the animal and vegetable kingdoms — they 
have been accustomed to consume a larger proportion 
of vegetable matter than is now usually adopted by 

Berlin. Translated as vol. liii. in "International Scientific 
Series." London : Kegan Paul and Co., 1885. Pp- 227-255. 

* Hence the small monkeys at the Zoological Gardens have 
a daily supply of meal worms, to afford the necessary small but 
important animal contribution to their dietary. 



Digitized by 



Google J 



Too much Flesh often Eaten. 35 

man. And lastly, having regard to the evidence 
which inquiries into pre-historic records jyi^n's early 
of man's life have revealed, as well as to progenitors, 
our knowledge of his existence since, with what we 
have learned respecting the habits of savage tribes 
of recent date, it is impossible to doubt that his 
diet has long been derived from both animal and 
vegetable kingdoms. The chase was a favourite pur- 
suit and supplied a certain quantity of animal food, 
always regarded as a welcome addition to the roots 
and fruits which must doubtless have largely con- 
tributed to sustain his daily life. 

At the same time, I cannot doubt that more flesh 
is consumed by a large part of our existing population 
than is absolutely necessary or desirable. But this 
is mostly to be observed among those who possess 
ample means, and whose employments do not neces- 
sarily demand great muscular exertion, ^ 

The use of 
exposure in all weathers, or other causes flesh liable 

of wear and tear to the animal tissues. ® * "^®' 
Where exercise is very largely taken and manual 
labour is hard and prolonged, the concentrated and 
easily digested proteids of flesh are the most valuable 
food for man's purpose. Where there is but little 
physical labour or activity, a smaller proportion is 
mostly advisable ; and a better state of bodily health 
may be generally assured by adopting an animal 
food — fish, poultry, and game, for example — less rich 
perhaps in proteids, and especially so in fat, than 
are beef or mutton, together with a considerable 



Digitized by 



Google 



36 Food and Feeding. 

proportion of the products of vegetable origin. The 
selection, however, has to be judiciously made. 
Theoretically, the vegetable eater, pure 
tarianism * ^nd simple, can doubtless find in his 
ISmlkf"^^^'' dietary all the principles adapted for 

certain the growth and support of the body as 

conditions. „ ^ 

well as for the production of heat and 

energy, provided that he selects vegetable growths 

that contain all the essential elements named ; but 

he should also possess that precious but somewhat 

rare endowment, an unimpaired and naturally strong 

digestion, capable of assimilating enough to support 

a fair average amount of activity. His life should 

be largely spent in the pure open air of the country, 

and he should select certain proportions of wheaten 

bread, oatmeal, and dried lentils, peas and beans, 

say with macaroni as a change, for the staple of his 

diet, chiefly to supply proteids, some carbo-hydrates 

and salts ; moderate quantities of potato, rice, sago, 

fruits, and vegetables as supplementary carbo-hydrates 

and salts ; and maize in the form of polenta, and 

olive oil with salads to furnish additional fats. In 

this way all the necessary elements are obtained and 

in due proportion, so that the total sum of food per 

diem is not too bulky, which a strict vegetarian diet 

Example of is prone to become ; otherwise he must 

hydrates in swallow and digest a large weight of 

excess. vegetable matter of less nutritive value, 

and therefore containing at least one element in 

large excess, in order to obtain all the elements he 



Digitized by 



Google 



Many thrive on Cereals and Milk. 37 

needs. Thus the Irishman, if confined solely to a 

potato diet, would require for his support from twelve 

to fifteen pounds daily, which contain chiefly starch 

— a superfluous quantity, and an overload for any 

stomach — in order to obtain a barely sufficient 

quantity of nitrogen of which this tuber contains 

so little, with scarcely any fat. Hence he eats less 

of the potatoes, and obtains when he can milk, lard, 

bacon, or a herring to supply the deficiency. The 

Highlander, living mainly on oatmeal, requires a 

very much smaller weight, since this grain contains 

not only starch, but a moderate amount of nitrogen 

and fat, although not sufficient for his purpose ; hence 

it is usually supplied by adding milk, and fish or 

bacon also when he can obtain them. 

No doubt there is, as all observation in every 

department of natural history testifies, 

/. « . After all. 

a great variety of results in comparing there is great 

the individuals of any species, their ^^^^^^ 

wants, qualities, and endowments, etc. Jastes of 

indiTLdixals. 
And no differences are greater in regard 

to such particulars than those which are manifested 
by man himself, the famous dictum notwithstanding, 
which declares his " equality " with his fellows, what- 
ever that may be taken to signify. And thus it may 
be admitted that some persons are stronger and 
more healthy who live very largely on vegetables, 
while there are many others for whom a proportion 
of animal food appears not merely to be desirable 
but absolutely necessary. On the other hand, the 



Digitized by 



Google 



38 Food and Feeding. 

man who lives on a well-chosen mixed diet con- 

Thc perfect taining about the due proportion of pro- 

^d*^^t° teids, fats, carbo-hydrates, and mineral 

supply of constituents to support the daily require- 

each element r . . . • 

in due ments of an average activity, without stint 

proportion. ^^ ^j^^ ^^^ \i'^xiA, or over supply on the 
other, will require a total of only two or three pounds 
of solid food as a perfect equivalent* In studying this 
matter, individual habit must be taken into account. 
Again, an animal feeder may by slow degrees accustom 
himself to a diet chiefly vegetable, without loss of 
weight or strength, not without feeling some incon- 
venience in the process ; but a sudden change in diet 
in this direction is for a time almost equivalent to 
starvation. The digestive organs require a consider- 
able period to accommodate themselves to the per- 
formance of work different from that to which they 
have been long accustomed ; while many persons, 
although able to diminish considerably the proportion 
of animal food, cannot relinquish it altogether without 
manifest injury to health. 

Moreover, in matters of diet essentially, many 
persons have individual peculiarities ; and while cer- 
tain fixed principles exist, such as those already laid 
down as absolutely cardinal, in the detail of their 
application to each man's wants, an infinity of 
stomach-eccentricities will be encountered if the 
.sphere of observation is considerable. The old 
phqyerb expresses the fact strongly but truly : " What 
* See tables on pp. 59, 60. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Individual Peculiarities. 39 

is one man's meat is another man's poison." Yet 

nothing is more common — and one rarely ., 

No universal 
leaves a social dinner table without ruleappli- 

observing it — than to hear some good- ^ ®^***- 

natured person recommending to his neighbour, with 

a confidence rarely found except in alliance with 

profound ignorance of the matter in 

hand, some special form of food, or vidualvariety 

drink, or system of diet, solely because ^i|sti^ ^° 

the adviser happens to have found it power and 

mrants 
useful to himself. More rationally might 

the adviser recommend the universal use of a hat 
moulded to the form of his own head, or of a boot 
made on the last contrived for his own tender foot ! 
For the differences between the parts just named in 
different individuals are far less, and are also much 
more easily estimated than the differences to be met 
with in their digestive organs, and in the capabilities 
with which these organs are endowed. 

Finally, I think we should carefully consider the 
question whether it is prudent or desir- . 

able to accept vegetarian limitations to man's 
man's resources in relation to food in ^®®°"^^^ 
face of the world's rapidly increasing populations. 
Flesh, as heretofore shown, is a most useful concen- 
trated form of nutritious elements, easily portable in 
small compass, already cooked, and easily digestible 
under many conditions, in which vegetable foods 
cannot be readily obtained, or are too bulky for 
transport, or more difficult to cook than the former. 



Digitized by 



Google 



40 Food and Feeding. 

Would any commander be justified in accepting the 

responsibility of chartering a large 

stancesin vessel freighted with piassengers and 

foSd^*"^^"^ crew for a three months' voyage, with a 

absolutely commissariat solely supplied with vege- 
necessaxy. 

tarian produce ? Even with the additions 

of those animal foods, milk, butter, cheese, and eggs, 
which are so much used and so unwarrantably in- 
cluded under the denomination of vegetarian diet, it 
would be a rash proceeding. Still more the attempt 
to sustain an army in the field with similar rations. 

And why should man be required to reject alto- 
Why reject gether the entire animal life of the sea, 
^oduw^* where Nature affords bounteous supplies 
the sea? of wholesome food on every habitable 

shore? The limitation of our food resources is in 
no sense desirable, but on the contrary is at this 
stage of the world's progress a flagrant anachronism. 
Man's enormously increased travelling facilities tend 
to render him naturally more cosmopolitan, more 
versatile in his tastes, appetites, and capabilities, and 
he can only gain advantage from a widened ex- 
perience of new foods from both kingdoms, which 
modern enterprise must in time develop. The very 
idea of restricting our resources and supplies is a 
step backwards— a distinct reversion to the rude and 
distant savagery of the past, a sign of decadence 
rather than of advance. 

Let us have all the world can be made to produce ; 
it will yet yield new and useful, possibly even better 



Digitized by 



Google 



Why limit Sources of Food? 41 

foods than those of the past, to the scientific inquirer, 
be he animal-breeder, agriculturist, or gardener, and 
furnish additional proof that wisdom lies in accepting 
every form of wholesome food from whatever source, 
and without limiting the bounty of Nature in any. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER 11. 

Materials at man's command for food from the vegetable 
kingdom— Seeds cultivated becoming grain, or cereal foods, 
as wheat and its derivatives, flour, wheaten bread — Oats 
and oatmeal — Maize and Indian com meal, polenta — Rice 
— Legumes : haricots and lentils, etc. — Potato — Roots, the 
carrot, etc., arrowroot — Fatty matters from seeds, nuts, etc. 
— Green vegetables — Gourds — Fungi — Fruits and bananas 
— ^Analyses of their composition, showing comparative 
amounts of proteids, carbo-hydrates, fats, salts, and water 
— Sugar — Tea, coffee, and cacao — Common salt — Import- 
ance of perfect mastication of food by the teeth in relation 
to digestion explained and insisted upon. 

It will be interesting now to take a general but brief 
The survey of the vast range of materials 

nSn'S^rel^ which civilized man has at his command 
tion to food, for the purpose of food : the foregoing 
remarks on the chemical constituents of food and 
their relation to the needs of the human body having 
been intended to aid us in further appreciating the 
value of different kinds. 

Commencing with the vegetable kingdom, the 

earliest tribes of man, during long ages, 

as already seen, obtained much of their 

sustenance from seeds, herbs, roots, and fruits, in 

addition to their gains by hunting and fishing. As 



Digitized by 



Google 



Vegetable Foods, the Cereals. 43 

the art of cultivating the first-named was acquired, 
the cereals appeared as improvements on the seed- 
bearing grasses, and now conspicuously take the first 
place, as containing nearly all the elements necessary 
to life, and being therefore the most largely con- 
sumed. Wheat and its congeners, which rank 
highest in quality, had been distinguished, in the 
form of bread, as "the staff of life," long before 
the physiological demonstration of the fact had been 
attained. Wheat, oats, rye and barley, maize and 
rice, are the chief members of this group, wheat 
containing most of the nitrogenous or flesh-forming 
material, besides abundance of starch, a very small 
amount of fat, together with sufficient saline and 
mineral elements. 



I. Composition of Wheat. 

Froteids 12*42 

Carbo-hydrates 70*53 

Fats 170 

Salts 179 

Water 13*56 

ioo*cx> 



2. Flour. 

Proteids io*8 

Carbo-hydrates 70*5 

Fats .2*0 

Salts 1*7 

Water . 15*0 

ioo*o 



Digitized by 



Google 



44 Food and Feeding. 

3. Composition of Wheaten Bread. 

Proteids 8*i 

Carbo-hydrates . . . . , 5ro 

Fatty matter . , . , . . i-6 

Mineral matter • .... 2*3 

Water , 37-0 



loo-o 



4. Oatmeal. 

Proteids 12-6 

Carbo-hydrates ..... 63*8 

Fats 5-6 

Salts 3*o 

Water 15-0 

lOO-Q 



5. Indian Corn Meal. 

Proteids ii*i 

Carbo-hydrates 65*1 

Fats 8-1 

Salts 1-7 

Water 14-0 

lOO'O 



6. Rice. 

Proteids 5*3 

Carbo-hydrates 79-5 

Fats ... ^ ... 07 

Salts o*5 

Water •••.... 13*0 

lOO'O 



Digitized by 



Google 



Legumes^ Tubers^ Roots. 45 

7. Legumes— Haricots and Lentils (almost alike). 

Proteids 25*5 

Carbo-hydrates 58*6 

Fats 2-8 

Salts 3'2 

Water 9'9 

1000 

8. Tubers— Potato. 

Proteids 2*1 

Carbo-hydrates 22*0 

Fats 0-2 

Salts 07 

Water ....... 75-0 

lOO'O 

9. Roots— Carrots and Parsnips (almost alike). 

Proteids 1-3 

Carbo-hydrates 14*5 

Fats 0-2 

Salts ro 

Water 83-0 

lOO'O 

Turnips are almost the same, but water no less than 90*0.* 

Rice, on the other hand, contains but a moderate 

share of proteids, almost no fats and ^^ ^ ^. ^ 

*^ that which 

mineral constituents, but starch in great the cereals 

abundance; while maize, with a good ""^ * 

supply of proteids and starchy matter, contains the 

most fatty material of the whole group. As derived 

♦ I am indebted for the above analyses, etc., to Dr. Pavy's 
encyclopaedic work, entitled "A Treatise on Food and Dietetics." 
Churchill. 



Digitized by 



Google 



46 Food and Feeding. 

from wheat must be named those valuable aliments, 
macaroni, vermicelli, and all the Italian pastes. De- 
rived from barley is malt-saccharine, parent of the 
large family of fermented liquors known as beer. 
And from various other grains are obtained by 
fermentation and distillation, several forms of ardent 
spirit Vinegar, best when produced from the grape, 
is also largely made from grain. Millet, dhoora, and 
buckwheat are all lower but useful members of the 
cereal group, and feed large populations in Eastern 
Africa and India. 
The legumes, such as beans, lentils, and peas, 
form a valuable aliment, containing more 
minous proteids ('*legumin") even than the 

P ^* cereals, but with fat in small proportion, 

while starchy matter and the mineral elements 
abound in both groups. 

The tuber finds its type in the potato, which 
Tubers contains far less of proteids than rice, 

and roots. much starch, and almost no fat, few 
mineral salts, no less than three-fourths of the 
weight being water ; the same may be said of the 
yam also. The roots may be illustrated by the beet, 
carrot, parsnip, and turnip, all containing little 
nitrogen, no fat, but much sugar, and water in very 
large proportion. Derived from roots and stems of 
foreign growth, we have arrowroot, tapioca, and sago, 
all pure starches and destitute of nitro- 
gen. Fatty matter is abundantly found 
in the olive, which supplies a large part of the world 



Digitized by 



Google 



Oils, Greens, Nuts, Bananas. 47 

with an important article of food The almond and 
other seeds, as rape, cotton, mustard, are also fruitful 
sources of oil. 

Under the term "green vegetables," a few leading 
plants may be enumerated as types of xhe green 
the vast natural supplies which every- vegretables. 
where exist: — The entire cabbage tribe in great 
variety ; lettuces, endive, and cresses ; spinach, sea- 
kale, asparagus, celery, onions, artichokes, and tomato, 
all valuable not so much for nutritive property, which, 
is not considerable, as for admixture with other food, 
chiefly on account of salts which they contain, and 
for their appetizing aroma and varied flavours. 

Thus condiments are useful, as the 

CoxiQinie&ts* 
sweet and aromatic spices, the peppers, 

mustard, and the various potherbs, so essential to 
an agreeable cuisine. Seaweeds, under Seaweeds, 
the name of laver, and the whole tribe go^^^s nuts 
of mushrooms, should be named, as breadfruit 
ranking much higher in nutritive value than green 
vegetables ; while truffles contain a still larger amount 
of the nitrogenous element. Pumpkins, gourds or mar- 
rows, and cucumbers are useful adjuncts to the dietary, 
especially in warm countries ; while chestnuts and 
other nuts contribute to the support of life in Spain and 
the eastern shores of the Mediterranean, and acorns 
also are still serviceable in some parts. The bread 
fruit is of high value ; so also are the cocoanut and 
the banana in tropical climates, all containing valuable 
proteids and carbo-hydrates. 



Digitized by 



Google 



48 Food and Feeding. 

Lastly must be named all those delicious but not 

T- .. very nutritive products of most varied 

Fruits 

andthdr kind and source, grouped under the 

cnvatives. ^ame of fruits. These are characterized 
chiefly by the presence of sugar, acid, vegetable 
jelly, the principle of which is known as " pectine," 
and valuable saline matters, often combined with 
scent and flavour of exquisite quality. Most contain, 
e,g, apples and pears, grapes, cherries, strawberries, 
gooseberries, plums and peaches, about 80 to 86 
per cent of water with free acid, and varying pro- 
portions of sugar. Derived from grapes as its chief 
source, stands wine in its innumerable varieties, so 
closely associated by all civilized nations with the 
use of aliments, although not universally admitted 
to rank in technical language as a food. Next may 
be named sugar itself in its various forms, a non- 
nitrogenous product of great dietetic value, and, in 
a less degree, honey. No less important, from a 
Tea coffee, different point of view, are the tea plant, 
cacao. the coffee berry, and the seeds of the 

cacao tree, source of cocoa and chocolate, owing to 
the presence in each of the two former of an element 
known as " caffeine," a mild and agreeable stimulant 
promoting mental activity. An analogous element, 
theobromine, distinguishes the cacaonut 

There is a single element belonging to the mineral 
Common kingdom which is taken in its natural 

salt- state as an addition to food, namely, 

common salt ; and it is so universally recognized as 



Digitized by 



Google 



The Act of Mastication. 49 

necessary, that it cannot be omitted here. The 
foregoing list possesses no claim to be exhaustive, 
only to be fairly typical and suggestive; a few 
omissions, which some may think important, doubt- 
less exist. In like manner, a rapid survey may be 
taken of the animal kingdom. 

Before quitting this, however, I shall add a few 
observations on the process of eating. Processor 
which is in itself too important to be «at"*g. 
left without some consideration. For it has a 
special relation to the great classes of cereal foods 
and tubers, not popularly known as it deserves to 

be. The act of mastication by means ^. . . 

Mastication, 
of the teeth and tongue, exerts an in- 
fluence of two kinds on the food during its transit 
through the mouth. Primarily, of course, 
there is the mechanical process of finely 
dividing all solid matters before they are swallowed. 
And that is the sole effect produced on flesh of all 
kinds, and is essential to good digestion, so that it can 
be acted upon easily when it arrives in the stomach, 
where it is exposed to the chemical action of the 
gastric juice and prolonged moist heat about 98^ 
But with another class of foods, the carbo-hydrates, 
chiefly starch, largely derived from grain of all kinds, 
and, therefore, all forms of bread, biscuit, and fari- 
naceous pudding, the act of mastication performs 
much more than merely mechanical second 
division. For by means of the saliva oW«ct> 
poured out during that process, and the peculiar 

D 



Digitized by 



Google 



50 Food and Feeding. 

principle, "ptyalin/* which it contains, a specific 

digestive action takes place on the starch, which, 

most being naturally insoluble in water, is 

important ^jjys converted into a soluble material 

called "glucose," and so prepared for absorption 

into the system. In fact, by a proper amount of 

mastication, all starches should have undergone this 

change, or nearly so, before they arrive 
Stomach 
does not in the stomach, which does not deal 

teffe^fowF^ with them. Any resulting deficiency 
th "^ *te^ h^ which may have occurred through hasty 
or inefficient mastication in the mouth, 
cannot be remedied until after they have left the 
stomach and entered the first intestine, where they 
meet with the juices of the pancreas, which complete 
the process. 

These facts should never be forgotten, and to 
Mastication ^^^'^ ^^^ ought to be taught, among 

the neces- other elementary rules of health, in very 
sary prelimi- 
nary to early life, since thorough mastication of 

gestion. ^jj j.^^j jg essential to our well being. 
The child should be made to practice this, not only 
when eating meat, ^but for soft foods, such as 
potatoes, bread, and even farinaceous puddings, in 
order to ensure the easy performance of digestion, 
the failure of which, in later life, is so often due to 
the early habit of swallowing rapidly and thought- 
lessly large masses of unchewed food. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER III. 

Foods from the animal kingdom — Domestic animals and their 
derivatives, milk, butter, and cheese — Deer and its varieties 
— Ground-game — Large foreign game— Birds, domestic 
and other — Fish in great variety — " Shell-fish " — Reptiles — 
Man omnivorous ; nature of food largely determined by 
circumstances—Prone to consume too much animal food, 
or to be careless in regard to selection of diet — ^Table 
showing the proportion of food-principles necessary to the 
daily dietary of an average adult, taking a moderate amount 
of exercise, in a temperate climate. 

I SHALL here offer a brief sketch of man's chief 
resources in the matter of food derived from the 
animal kingdom. 

First, the flesh of domestic quadrupeds: the ox 
and sheep, both adult and young; the Animal 
pig ; the goat ; the horse and ass, chiefly g^f ^®"* 
in France. Milk, butter, and cheese in milk and its 
great variety are derived chiefly from ^derivatives, 
this group. More or less wild are the red deer, 
the fallow deer, and the roe-deer. As 
ground-game, the hare and rabbit ; while 
abroad, the bison, wild boar, bear, chamois, reindeer, 
and kangaroo are esteemed for food among civilized 
nations ; but many other animals are eaten by 



Digitized by 



Google 



52 Food and Feeding. 

half-civilized and savage peoples, among which are 
the buffalo, elephant, beaver, whale, seal, tortoise, and 
crocodile ; also locusts and many other insects may 
be named. All these are rich in proteids, fatty 
matters, and saline materials. 

Among birds, we have domestic poultry in great 
Poultry. variety of size and quality, with eggs 

^gs* in abundance furnished chiefly by this 

class^; all the wild fowl and aquatic birds ; the 
pigeon tribe, the quail, and the smaller birds ; winged 
game in all its well-known variety. 

Of fish it is unnecessary to enumerate the enormous 
supply and the various species which 
exist everywhere, and especially on our 
own shores, from the sturgeon to whitebait, besides 
those in fresh-water rivers and lakes. All of them 
furnish nitrogenous matter largely, but, and par- 
ticularly the white fish, possess fat in very small 
quantity, with a fair proportion of saline materials. 
The salmon, mackerel, eels, and herring tribes, in- 
cluding the pilchards, sprats, sardines, and anchovies, 
have more fat, the last-named in considerable 
quantity, forming a useful food well calculated to 
supplement cereal aliments, and largely adopted for 
the purpose both in the south and north of Europe. 
The cod-fishery furnishes an important source of 
food ; like some other fish, the cod contains large 
quantities of oil in its liver only, its flesh, when in 
season, containing a very small proportion. 

The so-called reptiles furnish turtle, tortoise, and 



Digitized by 



Google 



Animal Foods used by Man. 53 

edible frog. Among articulated animals are the 
lobsters, crabs, and shrimps, which fur- Reptiles and 
nish a large amount of proteids, but are articul**** 
not generally very easily digested. Among molluscs, 
the oyster and fall the "shell-fish," so- Molluscs or 
called, which, as well as the above- ** shell-fish." 
named, closely resemble, in chemical composition, 
that of fish properly so-called. 

Amidst this profusion of supply from the varied 
products of the animal and vegetable Man's earl 
kingdoms, man's selection must have experience 
been made, in different climes, almost material for 
entirely by individual experiment with ^ * 
the materials nearest to his hand. Having no certain 
knowledge of the structure and functions of his body, 
or of the relation of food thereto acquired other than 
empirically, the process must have been progress 
often marked by failure, sometimes with ^^''^• 
injury to the experimenter. And progress has 
doubtless been extremely slow. 

At the present time, man appears for the most 
part to consume more in quantity than j^ 
is necessary for the healthy perform- persons eat 
ance of the animal functions. More- 
over, he has little knowledge of, or interest in, the 
processes by which food is prepared for Few men 
the table, or the conditions necessary to kJ^o^^J^e 
the healthy digestion of it by himself of food, 
Until a tolerably high standard of civilization is 
reached, he cares more for quantity than quality, 



Digitized by 



Google 



54 Pood and Feeding. 

desires little variety, and, if immersed in engrossing 
pursuits as so many must be, is disposed to regard 
any innovation in the shape of a new aliment as 

• te t impertinent, preferring the same food at 
in its the same hour daily, his enjoyment of 

prepara on. ^jjj^h apparently depends greatly on his 
ability to swallow the portion with extreme rapidity, 
that he may apply himself to other and more im- 
portant occupation without delay. Eating is treated in 
fact by multitudes much as they are disposed to treat 
religious duty — for eating is indeed one of the most 
important of all duties if my opening remarks are 
true — namely, as an observance which is generally 
irksome, but unfortunately necessary to be performed. 
Men even boast of their ignorance of so trivial a 
subject, regard it as unworthy the exercise of their 
powers, and — small compliment to their wives and 
sisters — fit only for the occupation of women. 

We shall find it an interesting inquiry to ascertain 

what materials, under the empirical con- 
Food 
depends ditions named, have furnished the staple 

®° food of the common people of various 

climates and races — what, in short, supports the life 

and labour of the chief part of the world's population. 

In the tropics and adjacent portions of the tem- 

Foodinthe perate zones, high temperature being 

tropics. incompatible with the physical activity 

familiar to northern races, a very little nitrogenous 

material suffices, since the expenditure is small. 

Mostly only a moderate quantity of fat is taken, the 



Digitized by 



Google 



His Food in Warm Regions, 55 

demand for heat and for force being inconsiderable. 
The starchy products supply nearly all the nutri- 
ment required, and such, with a moderate amount of 
proteids but almost no fats (see pp. 44-S), are found 
in rice, millet, etc. Rice by itself is the principal 
food of this wide zone, including a large part of 
China, part of Africa, America, also the East and 
West Indies ; and as temperature decreases by dis- 
tance from the equator, some fish, fowl, or other 
animal food in the form of soups or broth, are added. 
All adopt to some extent "a mixed diet." Yet in 
the islands of tropical Polynesia are many fine native 
races who consume freely some animal food. 

In the north of Africa, Arabia, and some neighbour- 
ing parts, the date, which contains sugar 
in abundance, is largely eaten, as well as 
maize and other cereals. The variety of millet known 
as **Doura'* is largely cultivated in Egypt, as are 
lentils, and flesh is generally used in small proportion. 

Crossing to Europe, the southern Italian is found 
subsisting on macaroni, legumes, rice, in Southern 
fruits, and salads, with oil, cheese, fish, Europe, 
and small birds, but very little meat ^**^^' 
More northward, besides fish and a little meat, maize 
is the chief aliment, mostly in the favourite form of 
"polenta," the meal well boiled in water producing 
a substantial porridge ; rye and other cereals take a 
second place. The chestnut also is largely eaten by 
the poorer population, both it and maize containing 
more fatty matter than wheat, oats, and legumes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



56 Food and Feeding. 

In Spain, the inhabitants subsist chiefly on maize 

and rice, with some wheat and legumes. 

Among the latter the garbanzo, or "chick- 
pea " {cicer arietinum), is one of the principal vege- 
table components of the national olla^ which contains 
also a considerable proportion of animal food in 
variety, as bacon, sausage, fowl, etc The chick-pea 
is cultivated in the East, and being roasted is known 
as "parched pulse," as portable food for travellers 
there. Fruit is fine and abundant ; especially so are 
grapes, figs, and melons. There is little or no butter, 
the universal substitute for which is olive oil, pro- 
duced in great quantity. Fowls, meat broths, and the 
pig furnish the chief animal food, and garlic is the 
favourite condiment. 
Going northward, flesh of all kinds occupies a 

more considerable place in the dietary, 
foodneces- In France the garden vegetables and 
Northern legumes form an important staple of diet 
Europe. |q,. j^jj classes ; the very numerous small 

land proprietors subsist largely on the 
direct products of the soil, with some milk, poultry, 
and eggs, the produce of their small farms. Beef is 
employed for their national pot-au-feu^ an admirable 
mixed dish, in which a small portion of meat is 
made to yield all its nutritive qualities, and to go 
far in mingling its odour and savour with those of 
the fragrant vegetables, including sweet and savoury 
herbs, which are largely added to the stock. The 
beef, which is an essential portion of the dish, is 



Digitized by 



Google 



Food in Colder Regions. 57 

often eaten hot after the soup, but sometimes cold, 
with plenty of green salad and oil, doubtless the 
most palatable mode of serving, while it furnishes 
a source of fat, if not otherwise provided for by 
butter, cheese, etc.* 

Throughout the German Empire, the cereals, 
legumes, greens, roots, and fruits supply 
an important proportion of the food con- 
sumed by the common population. Wheaten bread 
chiefly, but also black bread made from rye, is largely 
used throughout the north of Europe ; it is somewhat 
inferior in nutritious quality to the former, although 
by not so much as some have supposed ; also beans 
and peas are used abundantly. Potatoes and green 
vegetables of all kinds are served in numerous ways, 
but largely in meat-soup, a favourite dish. Sauer-kraut 
is a preparation of the cabbage-leaf after fermentation 
in salt brine, by which it is preserved for use at all 
seasons of the year, and is largely used and esteemed 
as a wholesome and palatable addition to other food. 
Meats, chiefly pork, are greatly esteemed in the form 
of sausage, and appear also in small portions or joints, 
but freely garnished with vegetables, on the tables of 
those who can afford animal diet. Moreover, sweet 
farinaceous dishes, containing more or less butter or 
lard, abound. Going further north, where the climate 
is no longer adapted for the production of wheat, 
as in Norway and Sweden, the common people rarely 

* For full details as to the nature and preparation of the 
pot-au-feuy see the Appendix. 



Digitized by 



Google 



58 Food and Feeding. 

see bread, living on oat and rye meal porridge, pota- 
Norwayand ^o^^> adding much bacon and herrings 
Sweden. fQ^ necessary fat and more proteids. 

Hard rye cakes hanging in the cottage rafters half 
the year are esteemed, as are sour milk in summer, 
and coffee or weak beer at all times. In northern 

Russia the same cereals, salted fish, and 
Russia. 

bacon form the staple foods, while much 

coarse-grain spirit is consumed. 

Lastly, it is well known that the inhabitants of the 
The Arctic Arctic zone are compelled to consume 
Circle. large quantities of oily matter, in order 

to generate heat abundantly ; and also that animal 
food is necessarily the staple of their dietary. Vege- 
tables, which moreover are not producible in so 
severe a climate, would there be wholly inadequate 
to support life. As a matter of fact, the considerable 
populations here which may be classed as Esquimaux, 
Greenlanders, and others, owe their existence and ex- 
tremely active life to their ability to thrive on animal 
food alone; while inhabitants of Iceland, northern 
Siberia, and some tribes of North American Indians, 
live almost solely on the flesh of animals. 

Before closing this chapter, the present appears to 
be a fitting place in which to give a brief r^sunti 
of particulars relating to the practical application, 
suitable to our own portion of the temperate zone, 
of those principles which scientific research has 
established concerning nutrition. 

As affording a typical example of the relative 



Digitized by 



Google 



Dietary of Average Adult. 59 

quantities of the four classes named as essential for 
human food, I offer the following table, from Dr. 
Pavy's work named below : — * 

"A diet containing the requisite combination of 
alimentary principles for just maintain- 
ing health, in a person of average height 
and weight, under exposure to a tem- 
perate climate and a moderate amount 
of muscular work. It must be of course 
understood that very considerable deviation from the 
proportions here named may be regarded as suitable 
for different constitutions ; in some cases, less of the 
proteids and more of the fats, in others, more or less 
of the carbo-hydrates, etc. 



Average 

requirement 
for adult male 
of each class 
of food- 
prindples. 



Dry food. 


In ozs. avoir. 




In grammes. 


Proteids .... 

Fatty matter . 

Carbo-hydrates 

Salts .... 


4*587 

2964 

14-250 

1058 


2006 

1296 

6234 

462 


130 

H 

404 

30 


Total 


22-859 


9998 


648 



"Thus about 23 ozs. form the quantity of dry solid 
matter contained in this standard diet, and a fifth of 

♦ " A Treatise on Food and Dietetics," by F. W. Pavy, M.D., 
Consulting Physician to Guy's Hospital, etc. London : ChurchilL 
Second Edition, p. 452. 

See also the latest views on this subject in **A Text-Book 
of Physiology,'* by M. Foster, M.A., M.D., F.R.S., etc.. Professor 
of Physiology in the University of Cambridge. Part II. 
Macmillan. 1895. 



Digitized by 



Google 



6o Food and Feeding. 

it IS composed of nitrogenous matter. If we reckon 
that our ordinary food contains, say, 50 per cent, of 
water, these 23 ozs. will correspond to 46 ozs. of solid 
food in the condition in which it is consumed. To 
complete the alimentary ingesta, a further quantity 
of from 50 ozs. to 80 ozs. of water may be put down 
as taken, under some form or other, daily." * 

Such a scheme may be practically represented as 
realized in the following allowance of food for a day's 
consumption by an individual, as above described, of 
the male sex, recalling, of course, the remarks just 
quoted in respect of "considerable deviation" neces- 
sary " for different constitutions " and tastes : — 

Daily Dietary. 

1. Bread 7 to 10 ozs. 

2. Butter, bacon, including the former used in 

cookery 3 „ 

3. Fish, cooked 4 to 5 „ 

4. Meat, cooked, including poultry, game, and for 

soup 7 or 8 „ 

5. Eggs, 2 or 3, including those used in cookery. 

6. Rice, macaroni, oatmeal, or other farinaceae, 

and flour in cookery 4 to 5 ., 

7. Potatoes, cooked 4 to 6 „ 

8. Sugar, including cookery i „ 

9. Green vegetables and fruits . . 4 to 6 „ 

10. Milk, including that used in cookery, } pint. 

11. Mineral salts, mostly included in foregoing food. Except 

salt used in cookery and at table. 

12. Water in tea, coffee, and other forms of drink, about 3 

or 4 pints. 

* " A Treatise on Food and Dietetics," by F. W. Pavy, M.D., 
p. 452. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER IV. 

Food of the English peasant — Food of the middle class gene- 
rally too solid or stimulating — Tending to corpulence as age 
advances — The cause of chronic complaints in later years — 
The produce of land in grain with pigs and poultry larger 
than when devoted solely to grazing — Value of fish as an 
article of diet — Supply ought to be more abundant and 
cheaper — Regimen suited to the sedentary and those who 
are chiefly brain-workers — Elementary principles in select- 
ing, combining, and cooking different forms of food — ^That 
of the agricultural labourer and other hard workers — The 
legumes : haricots, lentils — ^Various modes of cooking them 
— ^Also hints for their use at middle-class tables — Bread 
made of whole wheat-meal and its use — Receipts for making 
it — Combination of elements to produce a complete food — 
Cheese as diet for the working man : its use by the Swiss 
guides — Rice, and the necessary additions to make with it 
palatable, nutritious dishes — The potato, and similar com- 
binations. 

We will now consider the food which the English 
peasant and artisan provide. The former Foods con- 
h'ves, for the most part, on wheaten bread theUbowing 
and cheese, with occasionally a little classes 
bacon, some potatoes, and perhaps garden greens; 
it is only occasionally indeed that he can obtain fresh 
meat To this dietary the artisan adds meat as a 



Digitized by 



Google 



62 Food and Feeding. 

rule, mostly beef or mutton, and some butter. A 
often ill piece of fresh, and therefore not tender 

selected beef, is baked, or cooked in a frying- 

pan, in the latter case becoming a hard and not 
very digestible morsel ; by the former 
wastefully process a somewhat better dish is pro- 
prepare . duced, the meat being usually surrounded 
by potatoes or by a layer of batter, since both con- 
tain starchy products, and absorb the fat which leaves 
the meat The food of the peasant might, however, 
be cheaper and better; while the provision of the 
artisan is often extravagant and badly cooked. At 
this period of our national history, when food is 
scarce, and the supply of meat insufficient to meet 
the demand which our national habits of feeding 
perpetuate, it is an object of the first importance to 
consider whether other aliments can be obtained at a 
cheaper rate, and at the same time equal in quality 
to those of the existing dietary. Many believe that 
. this object may be accomplished without 

of much im- difficulty, and that the chief obstacle 
provemen ^^ improvement in the food-supply, not 
only of the classes referred to, but in that of the 
English table generally, is the common prejudice 
which exists against any aliment not yet widely 
known or tried. The one idea which the working 
classes possess in relation to improvement in diet, 
and which they invariably realize when wages are 
high, is an abundant supply of butcher's meat. To 
make this the chief element of at least three meals 



Digitized by 



Google 



English Middle-Class Diet. 63 

daily, and to despise bread and vegetables, is for 
them no less a sign of taste, than a declaration of 
belief in the perfection of such food for the purposes 
of nutrition. This belief doubtless arises from 
observing the habits of those who are better pro- 
vided than themselves with pecuniary resources. 

For I have already intimated that Englishmen 
of the middle classes generally have Englishmen 
adopted a diet adapted for a somewhat tormSfh 
more northerly latitude than that which animal food, 
they occupy ; that their food is mostly richer in fats 
and proteids than it need be, and that their numerous 
forms of indigestion and much resulting chronic 
disease are further necessary consequences of the 
same error. They indulge, not necessarily in quantity, 
but in a kind of food generally reputed " simple and 
wholesome," which nevertheless for them creates a 
condition of corpulence, not merely inconvenient, but 
prejudicial to health, and to their prospects of 
longevity. Such tendencies existing, and especially 
if the individual does not, or cannot take much 
exercise, the choice of food, free from fatty con- 
stituent, or from fat-producing elements, is a matter 
of no small importance. Then, again, it is absolutely 
certain, contrary to the popular belief as this is, that 
while a good supply of food is essential Qujmfjf- -.f 
during the period of growth and active food to be 
middle life, a diminished supply is desir- in advancing 
able in relation to health and prolonga- y**^ 
tion of life during declining years, when physical 



Digitized by 



Google 



64 Food and Feeding. 

exertion is small, and the digestive faculty sometimes 
becomes less powerful also. I shall not regard it 
as within my province here to dilate largely on this 
topic, but I desire to point out that the system of 
"supporting" aged persons, as it is termed, with 
increased quantities of food and stimulant, is an 
error of cardinal importance, and, without doubt, 
tends to shorten, or to embitter life. This erroneous 
Serious evils practice ignores the important fact that 
negfect^Sr ^^ ^S^ increases, the ability to eliminate 
this course. food unnecessarily consumed notably 
diminishes. The functions by which surplus and 
effete matters are thrown off from the system are 
less active than in youth and middle age; and the 
results of over-feeding, which a robust constitution 
can get rid of without obvious evil, become a source 
of dangerous embarrassment to the feebler organiza- 
tion of one advanced in years. Hence numerous 
chronic disorders, often regarded as peculiar to the 
latter third of life, are to a great extent avoidable. 
So far from continuing to select the strong nourish- 
ment which may have been necessary during the 
toil and anxieties of thirty years or more of adult 
energy and activity throughout the prime of life, the 
elderly man who desires to preserve fair health, and 
to attain to longevity, should gradually diminish his 
use of strong nitrogenous and especially of much 
fatty food. He should substitute a lighter dietary, 
as he subsides naturally, and more or less gradually, 
into the class of the sedentary, and adopts the 



Digitized by 



Google 



National Resources of Food. 65 

regimen best adapted thereto, hereafter to be con- 
sidered.* 
These things being so, a question also inviting 

consideration arises in relation to the . ^ 

The 
economical management of the national national 

resources. For it is generally under- J^ted^to 
stood that every acre of good arable ^^j?*?^®^ 
land devoted to the production of grain 
is capable of becoming the source of a much larger 
amount of produce of equivalent value as food, than 
if applied to the feeding of sheep and oxen. In 
other words, a given area of such land cropped with 
cereals and legumes, will support a more numerous 
population than that which can be sustained on 
pasture land, mostly of inferior quality, devoted 
solely to the growth of cattle. And for another 
reason, because the corn-land will also produce, 
without much extra cost, a considerable quantity of 
animal food, in the form of pigs and poultry, upon 
the offal or coarser parts of vegetable produce which 
are unsuitable for human consumption. Moreover, 
the animals are useful to a considerable extent to 
the land, by destroying injurious insect life, and by 
depositing valuable manure. 

But owing to our increasing population, and to the 
uncertainty of the climate, this country has to pur- 
chase every year a large and increasing quantity of 

♦ See " Diet in Relation to Age and Activity," where the subject 
is discussed at length. Kegan Paul, Trench and Co., Paternoster 
Row. By the Author. 

E 



Digitized by 



Google 



66 



Food and Feeding. 



corn and flour from foreign countries, while more 
of our own land is yearly devoted to 
grazing purposes. The increased import 
of corn and flour and other agricultural 
produce by Great Britain during the last 
twenty-six years (that is, previous to the 
end of 1895, which is the latest information at present 
obtainable), is exhibited in the following table : * — 

Consumption of IMPORTED Foods PER HEAD on 
Population in the United Kingdom. 



Large meat 

g reduction 
ere causes 
lar^e import 
of foreign 
grain. 



Articles. 



1869. 



x888. 



1895. 



Com and flour 

Butter 

Cheese 

Bacon and hams 

Eggs. 



155 '85 pounds 

4-52 „ 

3-52 „ 

2-68 „ 

14*38 number 



220*14 pounds 
8-i6 „ 
5-56 ,, 
10-25 „ 
30*0 number 



285*09 pounds 
7*92 „ 
5 '93 » 
14-63 „ 
38*97 number 



At the same time our importation of meat has 
been enormously increasing during the last ten years. 
Thus the value of dead meat and of animals has now 
reached the annual amounts here quoted : f — 



Z887. 



Z889. 



1896. 



Dead meat 

Animals 

Butter and margarine 

Cheese 

Eggs. 



14,662,100 
6,346,727 



£ 
18,601,309 
10,360,807 



£ 

24,753*002 

10,438,699 

17,842,508 

4,900,428 

4,184,567 



* StatesmatCs Year Booky 1897, p. 86. And what might be 
the extra cost of obtaining this supply in time of war? — a 
contingency we ought seriously to reckon on. We should then, 
perhaps, draw much more largely than we do at present on the 
enormous resources which exist on all our shores, referred to in 
the succeeding paragraph. 

t Siafesman's Year Book^ 1897, pp. 84-86* 



Digitized by 



Google 



Inadequate Supply of Fish. 67 

Lastly, those who are interested in the national 

supply of food must lament that, while ^ - . 

Our fish 
Great Britain possesses perhaps the best supply 

opportunities in the world for securing a °^^ 
large and cheap supply of fish, she fails to attain it, 
and procures so little only, that it is to the great 
majority of the inhabitants an expensive luxury. 
Fish is a food of great value ; nevertheless it ought 
in this country to be one of the cheapest aliments, 
since production and growth cost absolutely nothing, 
only the expenses of catching, and of a short transport 
being incurred. This is a question which must sooner 
or later be solved by the public themselves, unless 
some persons in the trade, more enterprising than 
those who now pursue it, will abandon existing con- 
ventional rules and habits, and venture on the 
assuredly safe and profitable enterprise of supplying 
fish, good and fresh, at prices far lower than those 
which it is agreed shall rule at present* 

♦ Something has been done to meet the wants of fish consumers 
by the fish dealers at the docks of Grimsby, Lincolnshire, to 
afford a regular, prompt, and cheap supply of fresh fish to families 
in London, and also in the country for those who reside at no 
great distance firom a railway station. The result I believe to 
be tolerably satisfactory ; but, with enterprise, it might be 
rendered more so. For a regular and varied kitchen supply — 
and I believe a weekly fish-dinner is a welcome as well as a 
wholesome change for the " servants' hall " — it may be depended 
on as fresh in quality and reasonable in price. But for " live 
salmon " or a choice turbot, as well as for " the pick of the 
market " in soles and other fish, a town fishmonger of the highest 
repute should be always applied to* 



Digitized by 



Google 



68 Food and Feeding. 

A very large proportion of our town population 
Fish would profit by exchanging some of their 

food^for nieat, as an article of daily diet, for fish, 

n^any* Where occupation is chiefly of an in- 

tellectual kind, and demands little physical exertion, 
fish is often much more suitable than butcher's meat 
Without active exercise in the open air, the digestive 
system is apt to become overloaded and oppressed 
by meals consisting chiefly of meat ; and even if the 
primary digestion of it is, in these circumstances, 
fairly accomplished, many a constitution suffers from 
an over-supply of nutritive matters, which cannot 
be disposed of easily without considerable habitual 
muscular activity. 

There is no doubt that the obvious and admitted 
value of a highly nitrogenous food, of which meat is 
a concentrated form, to the labouring man, has oc- 
casioned the almost universal belief that such meat, 
of which let beef and mutton be the type, is the most 
desirable food staple for all. "If you wish to be 
strong, eat plenty of meat;" "If you are feeling 
weak, eat more meat, and at every meal ; " such are 
the well-known articles of a creed which is deeply 
graven in the popular mind. Nevertheless, few state- 
ments relating to diet can be more misleading, and 
this is, as already intimated, one which often gives 
rise to serious ill-health. 

It is this habit of adopting meat as the chief ele- 
ment of his dietary, which the sedentary man, with 
little opportunity for bodily exercise, the man who 



Digitized by 



Google 



Prevention Better than Cure. 69 

uses his brain more than his muscles, should avoid. 
But especially, also, should he abstain and 
from fatty matters in large quantity, gelhfor^Sil^ 
taking only a moderate proportion, sedentary, 
which is not only permissible, but to a small extent 
necessary. For if he habitually consumes for whom 
these two classes of food freely, materials food\s*^ 
are introduced into the system which it undesirable, 
cannot eliminate under the conditions named, and 
which must ultimately obstruct the function of some 
internal organ. Thus the periodical bilious attack, 
or the recurring fit of gout, or some other relentless 
tormentor, clears the system for a time of the offend- 
ing matter which the daily error in diet is perpetually 
reproducing and accumulating. Those who are thus 
affected often endeavour to ward off their troubles by 
systematic muscular exercises, fencing. Effect of 
rowing, and the like, and they do so ^J^cuie^ 
with a certain amount of success. It is «tc. 
for the purpose of getting rid of superfluous nutritive 
materials that others (who may be wholly unconscious 
of the need which impels them) secure their yearly 
shootings, make Alpine excursions, or seek the 
mineral springs of a foreign spa — more or less agree- 
able contrivances, all of them, for effecting the required 
elimination once or twice a year, but which would not 
be necessary had food suitable to a sedentary life only 
been taken. On the other hand, the pleasurable 
pursuits named would — the proviso as to diet having 
been obeyed — be more enjoyed for their own sake ; 



Digitized by 



Google 



70 Food and Feeding. 

and the considerable amount of training essential for 
the over-loaded constitution would not be a trouble- 
some preliminary. Many a man might indeed safely 
pursue a sedentary career, taking only a small 
amount of exercise, and yet mziintain an excellent 
standard of health, if only he were careful that the 
The " in- " intake " in the form of diet corresponded 
take|' and with the expenditure which his occupa- 
put" should tions, mental and physical, demand. Let 
correspond, j^j^^^ y^^ ^ means enjoy his annual 

pastime, and profit by it, to rest his mind and 
augment his natural forces, but not for the mere 
purpose of neutralizing the evil effects of habitual 
dietetic wrong-doing. 

It is for this large and increasing class of the com- 
Fish diet and munity, who are emphatically brain- 
brain work, workers, that a fair proportion of fish 
furnishes an appropriate food ; and as the tendency 
of civilization is slowly but surely to develop mental 
activity, and to dispense with laborious handicraft, a 
good supply of cheap fish becomes every day more 
important to the community. 

For the sedentary man, whatever his calling in life, 
whose engagements permit him only to take just that 
moderate amount of muscular exercise which is in all 
circumstances essential to health ; for a great propor- 
tion of women, whose engagements are incompatible 
with much activity in the open air, — the nutritive 
elements afforded by fish admirably supply an im- 
portant part of the wants of the body. The moderate 



Digitized by 



Google 



Changes in Diet to be Gradual. 71 

amount of flesh-forming material present in fish, and 
in a form which entails little labour on the digestive 
organs — for most persons certainly less than meat — 
and the facility with which fish may be associated 
with other elements — some fatty matters, with cereals 
and vegetables, as well as fruits — place it in the first 
rank of foods in that mixed dietary which is suitable 
to those who lead more or less the kind of life 
referred to. I by no means say that it should 
supersede the use of meat altogether, although it 
may do so sometimes with advantage ; a point only 
to be determined in each individual instance after 
some observation and experiment. For in all cases, 
it is to be remembered — and I repeat the statement 
on account of its importance — ^that a person who has 
habitually eaten meat two or three times daily cannot 
at once exchange it for fish and cereals or vegetables, 
without some discomfort, to say the Changes in 
least All radical changes in diet, even fe bf 1^ 
in the right direction, require to be by degrees, 
gradually made ; the stomach conforms slowly, when 
long accustomed to deal with highly nitrogenized 
animal food, to the task of deriving from unac- 
customed materials the support necessary to the 
body. Given time for such modification of function, 
and it is remarkable — at least, it appears so to those 
who have not practically studied the subject — that a 
diet which, if adopted suddenly might fail to be either 
digestible or nutritious, may become the most whole- 
some and appropriate which the individual can adopt 



Digitized by 



Google 



72 Food and Feeding. 

I may here advert to a belief which appears to be 
Fish diet widely entertained, viz. that fish con- 

ww-kl^*"* tains certain elements which adapt it in 
continued. an especial manner to renovate the brain, 
and so to support mental labour. There is no 
foundation whatever for this view : the value of fish 
to the brain-worker is due simply to the facts already 
referred to, viz. that it contains, in smaller pro- 
portion than meat, those materials which, taken 
abundantly, demand more physical labour for their 
complete consumption, and which without this pro- 
duce an unhealthy condition of body, more or less 
incompatible with the easy and active exercise of 
the functions of the brain. 

Having enunciated some general principles, which 
The dietary it is important should first be estab- 
woridne lished, I shall offer some illustrations of 



the manner in which they may be applied. 
This brings us to the second division of the subject, 
viz. the selection of food and the best modes of 
preparing it for general use ; in other words, a sketch 
of the elementary principles of cooking with typical 
illustrations. Dealing first with that of the agri- 
cultural labourer, our object is to economize his small 
pittance; to give him, if possible, a rather more 
nutritive, wholesome, and agreeable dish — and it is 
assumed that he can have but one — than his means 
have hitherto furnished. But here there is little scope 
for change ; already said to live chiefly on bread and 
cheese, with bacon occasionally, two indications only 



Digitized by 



Google 



Food of Outdoor Labourer. 73 

for improvement can be followed, viz. augmentation 
of nitrogenous matter and of fatty matter, to support 
the body and to furnish heat and force, A fair pro- 
portion of meat, one of the best means of fulfilling 

them, is not within his reach. First, his 

Bread, 
daily bread ought to contain all the con- 
stituents of the wheat, instead of being made of flour 
from which most of the mineral elements have been 
removed ; a subject to be considered at some length 
hereafter (see pp. 78-80). But beans and Lcgumin- 
peas are richer in nitrogen than wheat, ®"® foods, 
although not so easily assimilated, and contain less 
fat, the last being in small quantity, while maize has 
three times their proportion of fat Hence all of 
these would be useful additions to his dietary when 
they can be well digested, being cheaper than wheat 
in the market, although the retail demand being at 
present small, they may not be so in the small shops. 

It may be remembered how well the ^ _ . 

The " Erbs- 
" Erbswurst," which derives its value, for wurst" and 

men whose powers of digestion are * "®' 
sharpened by hard labour in the open air, from the 
legumes combined with animal fat, supported the 
work of the German armies during the winter of 
1870-71. It consisted of a well-cooked pur^e of peas, 
mixed with a considerable proportion of bacon or lard, 
and dried so as to be portable, constituting in small 
compass a perfect food, especially suitable for sup- 
porting muscular activity and exposure to cold. It 
probably nearly equalled in value preserved meat. 



Digitized by 



Google 



74 Food and Feeding, 

prepared by salting or other processes for transport, 
being not only less bulky, but more convenient for 
use without delay at any time. By no means to be 
depended on as a staple, or to take the place of 
fresh meat, it was a most valuable supplement 
when the latter was not available. It was better 
also, because it was relished cold, or could be con- 
verted in a few minutes into good soup with boiling 
water. But for our labourer probably the best of 
the legumes is the haricot bean, red or white, the 
dried mature bean of the plant whose pods we eat 
in the early green state as ** French beans." * For 
this purpose they may be treated thus: Soak, say, 
a quart of the dried haricots in cold 
water for about sixteen to twenty-four 
hours, after which place them in a saucepan, with 
two quarts of cold water and a little salt, on the fire ; 
when boiling remove to the corner and simmer slowly 
until the beans are tender ; the time required being 
about at least three hours.t This quantity will fill 

* What we call " French beans " may be the product of several 
kindred varieties of the kidney bean, dwarf or climbing, varying 
according to locality and soil, and distributed over a very large 
part of Europe. When gathered early, before it is fully grown, 
the bean is green, like a green pea, and forms an admirable 
dish, known in France 2i^ flageolets. When the ordinary French 
beans (immature green pods) are mixed in about equal propor- 
tions with Xht flageolets^ the dish, which is a very palatable one, 
is well known in France as haricots verts panaches (variegated), 
and might be served at our tables with advantage. 

t If the water is hard, a little soda should be added to 
soften it. 



Digitized by 



Google 



The Legumes: Simple Cookery. 75 

a large dish, and may be eaten with salt and pepper. 
It will be greatly improved at small . 

cost by the addition of a bit of butter, methods of 
or of melted butter with parsley, or if ^^^ ^* 
an onion or two have been sliced and stewed with 
the haricots. A better dish still may be made by 
putting all or part, after boiling, into a shallow 
frying-pan, and lightly frying for a few minutes with 
a little lard and some sliced onions. With a few 
slices of bacon added, a comparatively luxurious and 
highly nutritive meal may be made. But there is still 
in the saucepan, after boiling the haricots, a residue 
of small value, which the French peasant's wife, who 
turns everything to account, utilizes in a manner quite 
incomprehensible to the Englishwoman. The water 
in which dried haricots have stewed, and also that in 
which green French beans have been boiled, contains 
a proportion of nutritive matter. The Frenchwoman 
preserves this liquor carefully, cuts and fries some 
onions, adds to it these and some thick slices of 
bread, a little salt and pepper, with a potherb or two 
from the corner of the garden, and thus serves hot an 
agreeable and useful cro'Ute au pot It ought to be 
added that the haricots so largely used by the work- 
ing classes throughout Europe are not precisely either 
"red" or "white," but some cheaper local varieties, 
known as haricots du pays. These are now supplied 
here at about twopence a pound, and in large quantity 
might be obtained at a somewhat cheaper rate, their 
quality as food being not inferior to other kinds. 



Digitized by 



Google 



76 Food and Feeding. 

But haricots — let them be the fine white Soissons — 
The finest ^^® good enough to be welcome at any 
haricots ; table ; and our artisans, whose means are 

much larger than those of the class above named, 
might improve their dietary by adopting some of 
the foregoing hints, as well as those which follow. 
A roast leg or shoulder of mutton may be garnished 
by a pint boiled as just directed, lying in the gravy 
of the dish ; and some persons think that, with a good 
their place supply of the meat gravy, and a little 
furaShed ^^^ ^"^ pepper, " the haricots are by no 

tables. means the worst part of the mutton." 

Then with a smooth purie of mild onions, which have 
been previously sliced, fried brown, and stewed, served 
freely as sauce, our leg of mutton and haricots become 
the gigot d la bretonne well known to all lovers of 
wholesome and savoury cookery. Next, white haricots 
stewed until soft, made into a rather thick puriey deli- 
cately flavoured by adding a small portion of white 
purie of onions (not browned by frying as in the pre- 
ceding sauce), produce an agreeable garnish for the 
centre of a dish of small cutlets, or an entrie of fowl, 
etc. Again, the same haricot purie blended with a 
Haricot ^^^ stock, well flavoured with fresh 

soups, vegetables, furnishes an admirable and 

nutritious white soup. The red haricots, in like 
manner, with a beef stock make an excellent brown 
soup, technically known as potage d la Condi^ and 
usually served with small fried croutons. The same 
may be said of lentils, known as " Chantilly," which 



Digitized by 



Google 



The Legumes: at their Best. 77 

have much the same nutritive value, and often an 
agreeable change, especially in winter, when these 
as well as split peas are usually met with in the 
well-known form of a pur^e. If, instead of meat, we 
employ a good vegetable stock, agreeably flavoured 
with carrot, turnip, onion, and savoury herbs, a first- 
rate soup maigre is produced. When, in place of 
meat, a broth chiefly made from game — especially 
from the remains of a hare, the prime parts of which 
have been consumed at table — is thickened with red 
haricot purvey the result is an excellent and other 
soup, which in texture and in flavour combina^ 
would by many persons not be distin- ^ons. 
guishable from a common purie of game itself. A 
hint for those who do not despise economy in cuisine, 
when the value of the product is unquestionable. 
Stewed haricots also furnish, when cold, an admirable 
salad, improved by adding slices of tomato, etc., the 
oil supplying the one element in which the bean is 
deficient ; and a fairly nutritious food is produced 
for those who can digest it in this form. The same 
dietetic principle, it may be observed, has, although 
empirically, produced the well-known dishes of beans 
and bacon, ham and green peas, boiled pork and 
pease-pudding, all of them old and popular but really 
scientific combinations. Thus also the French, serving 
petits pois as a separate dish, add butter freely and 
a dash of sugar, the former making the compound 
physiologically complete, the latter agreeably height- 
ening the natural sweetness of the vegetable, especially 



Digitized by 



Google 



78 Food and Feeding. 

when the peas are a little old, insipid, or have lost 
their accustomed flavour. 

I have just adverted to the bread of the working 
Remarks on '^'^^y and recommended that it should 
meal bread. ]jg made from entire wheat meal; but 
it should not be too coarsely ground Extreme 
coarseness in "whole wheat meal," as it is usually- 
termed, is a condition designed to exert a specific 
effect on the digestion for those who need it, and, 
useful as it is in its place, is not desirable for the 
average population referred to. At the same time, 
no portion of the husk of the grain should be removed 

Reason for ^^^"^ ^^ wheat when ground, whether 

not removing coarsely or finely, into meal. That a 
the husk. 

partial removal is systematically advo- 
cated by some as an improvement, is one of the 
numerous illustrations of the modern and almost 
universal craze which just now exists among food 
purveyors of almost every description, for eliminating 
all inert or innutritions matter from the food we eat. 
This extraordinary care to employ nothing in our 
diet but matter which has nutritive value, that is, 
can be absorbed into the system, is founded upon 
want of elementary knowledge of the first principles 
of digestion ; and yet, strange to say, the mistaken, 
indeed mischievous, practice is supported, probably for 
want of thought, by many who ought to know better. 
It seems now to be almost overlooked that no 
proper action of the intestines can take place unless 
a very considerable quantity of inert matter is present 



Digitized by 



Google 



Whole Meal JVheaten Bread. 79 

in our daily food, existing as material which cannot 
be digested. By this character we are ... - 
not to suppose that it is in the least inert matters 
degree "indigestible" in the sense of 
that term when employed to signify " difficult diges- 
tion," but only that it passes unchanged through the 
body, neither receiving nor exciting any action. 
When there is a considerable proportion of this in 
the food, the bowels can act daily and regularly, 
having a mass which they can transmit When, on 
the other hand, the food is so " nutritious " as to be 
almost entirely absorbed, there is very little solid 
matter to transmit, and the action of the bowels is 
therefore scanty, irregular, and insufficient. This is, in 
fact, a very extensively recognizable cause of a great 
deal of the habitual constipation so prevalent among 
the middle classes at the present time. To return to 
the subject of coarse wheat meal, let me observe that 
it does not readily produce light agreeable bread 
when made in the form of ordinary loaves : a solid 
mass of this meal being a bad conductor of heat, will 
have a hard flinty crust if baked sufficiently to cook 
the interior ; or it will have a soft dough-like interior, 
if the baking is checked when the crust is properly 
done. Consequently the form of a flat Best form 
cake, resembling that of the ordinary ^or baking, 
tea-cake, is preferable, about ij inch, or at most ij 
inch thick, since it admits of the right amount of 
heat operating equally throughout the mass. 

The following receipts will be found successful, 



Digitized by 



Google 



8o Food and Feeding. 

probably after a trial or two, in producing excellent, 

light, friable, and most palatable bread in the form 

recommended. 

The first directs the mode of making it with baking 

Receipt for powder. — ^Take two pounds of coarsely 

whole-meal ground whole wheat meal, and add half 

cakes, usingf 

baking a pound of fine flour, or, better still, the 

pow er. same weight, or more if preferred, of 

fine Scotch oatmeal. Mix thoroughly with a suf- 
ficient quantity of baking powder and a little salt ; 
then rub in two ounces of butter and make into 
dough — using a wooden spoon — ^with cold skimmed 
milk or milk and water, soft in consistence, so that 
it can almost be poured into the tin ring, which gives 
it form when baked. In this manner it is to be 
quickly made into flat cakes (like tea-cakes), and 
baked on a tin, the rings used being about an inch 
high and seven or eight inches in diameter, each 
enclosing a cake. Put them without delay into a 
quick oven at the outset, so that the external surface 
may be instantly hardened or sealed to prevent the 
gas formed by the baking powder from escaping, 
otherwise the result will be a dense, thin, and heavy 
cake instead of a light and spongy one. This is a 
cardinal point in the process which is often over- 
looked. When the object is accomplished, which will 
occupy some five or seven minutes, the temperature 
should be lowered to complete the process gently and 
completely.* 
• The following is a simple and excellent formula for " baking 



Digitized by 



Google 



Receipt for making It. 8i 

If made with yeast, which is for general purposes 

preferable, when either good German or 

. With yeast 

the fresh home product can be obtained, 

add the necessary quantity to the dough, made as 
above directed with the two meals, butter, salt, and 
warm milk and water ; make the cakes and put them 
on the tin with their rings, and set near the fire to 
rise, which they will do in an hour or little under. 
Then bake in a medium oven in^the same way as 
for any other fermented bread. When yeast is 
used and not baking powder, a medium coarse oat- 
meal may be added to the wheat meal instead of fine 
oatmeal, which is necessary in the foregoing receipt 

The butter and milk supply fatty matter in which 
the wheat is somewhat deficient ; all the saline and 
mineral matters of the husk are retained ; and thus 
a more nutritive form of bread cannot be made, 
combined with a desirable proportion of inert matter. 
Moreover, it retains the natural flavour of the wheat, 
in place of the insipidity which is characteristic of 
fine flour, although it is indisputable that bread 
produced from the latter, especially at Paris and 
Vienna, is unrivalled for delicacy, texture, and colour. 

powder;" one which has been long used for this and other 
purposes. It may be obtained at any chemist's and in any 
quantity, based on the following proportions : — 

Tartaric acid, 2 ozs. 

Bicarbonate of soda, 3 ozs. 

Common arrowroot, 3 ozs. 
Mix well ; place in a wide-mouthed corked bottle, and keep 
perfectly dry. 

F 



Digitized by 



Google 



82 Food and Feeding, 

Whole wheat meal may now be bought in most 
towns, but by no means always in such perfect 
condition as it ought to be. When it cannot be 
Domestic obtained, a useful corn mill, the cutting 
Srindiae P^^^ ^° ^^ made of steel, is now con- 

wheat structed cheaply for home use ; the best 

white wheat should be procured, and the grain can 
be ground so as to supply a meal of any degree of 
coarseness desired.* 

An important object in furnishing the foregoing 
details is to illustrate how combinations ' 
binationof of the nitrogenous, starchy, fatty, and 
nwS^Sy for ^^^^^^ elements may be made, in well- 
* "com- proportioned mixtures, in order to pro- 

duce what I have termed a " complete " 
dish — that is, one which supplies every demand of 
the body, without containing any one element in 
undue proportion. For it is obvious that one or two 
of these elements ^ may exist in injurious excess, 
especially for delicate stomachs, the varied peculi- 
arities of which, as before insisted on, must some- 
times render necessary a modification of all rules. 
Thus it is easy to make the fatty constituent too 
large, and thereby derange digestion, a result fre- 
Rcsult of quently experienced by persons of seden- 

^Soifof' ^^^y habits, to whom a little pastry, 
one element a morsel of foie graSy or a rich cream 
is a source of great discomfort, or of a "bilious 

* Kent & Co., the well-known makers of domestic appli- 
ances, in High Holborn, supply such mills. 



Digitized by 



Google 



" Complete '\ Food or Dish. 83 

attack ; " while the outdoor labourer, who requires 
much fatty material for his work, would have 
no difficulty in consuming a large quantity of 
such compounds with advantage. 

Cheese as a supplement to bread is largely used by 
the labouring man, especially in agri- ^. 
cultural districts. It is a food well valuable diet 
adapted to his wants ; while his digestion, 
unlike that of many a factory operative who works 
under cover, generally deals with it easily. Cheese 
is one of the most concentrated forms of nitrogenous 
food, and admirably supports hard labour in the open 
air. Thus it is that Swiss guides and Use of it 
mountaineers always demand a good ^^S|J. 
supply of cheese and butter among the ««". 
provisions when a long day's work is planned. When 
taken at the end of a full meal as a savoury morsel, 
the flavour only is required, and the quantity should 
be small. Many persons whose daily life affords 
little opportunity for muscular activity find cheese, at 
all events when uncooked, not easily digestible. 
And when such do employ it as an article of food, 
it should be regarded as taking the place of meat, 
which is not so rich in nitrogen. Mr. Mattieu 
Williams has some good remarks on this subject,* 
from which it appears that when properly improved 
cooked, cheese is probably more easily ^y cooking, 
assimilated by an ordinary stomach, than when eaten 

♦ " The Chemistry of Food," by Mattieu Williams, pp. 135-40. 
London : Chatto & Windus. 1885. 



Digitized by 



Google 



84 Food and Feeding. 

in the raw condition. The well-known "cheese 
The fondu'' is an example. Here is the 

S^^J^^® Swiss peasant's form as he gives it, and 

fondu." of the dish thus produced he speaks 

highly, from observation as well as from personal 
experience, in relation to its sustaining power, and 
its right to form the staple dish of a substantial meal, 
appropriately adding, " It is rather too good — over- 
nutritious — for a man only doing sedentary work." 

Mix grated cheese and eggs beaten as for an 
omelette, adding a little new milk or butter. Place 
the mixture in a saucer-shaped pan which bears the 
fire, over which it is to be gently cooked, stirring well 
until the whole is dissolved, and the mixture is homo- 
geneous ; serve it in the pan, and eat it with a good 
supply of bread, and with salt and mustard to taste. 
Mattieu ^^' Williams further suggests that a 

Williams' small quantity of bicarbonate of potash 
may be added with advantage to the 
ingredients before cooking — say 15 or 20 grains 
for a dish sufficing for two persons. It appears to 
facilitate solution of the casein, and at all events 
cannot be an unwholesome addition. Indeed, as he 
observes, it supplies potash salts, which are naturally 
present in meat, but which are wanting in cheese. 
By adding bread crumbs, or slices of bread, and more 
milk, an excellent savoury pudding may be made, 
and baked in a pie-dish, or in a shallower one if pre- 
ferred. This preparation may be easily rendered an 
elegant one for other tables if required. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Rice, Modes of serving. 85 

Quitting the subject of wheat and the leguminous 

seeds, it will be interesting to review 

Rice as food, 
briefly the combinations of rice, which 

furnishes so large a portion of the world with a 
vegetable staple of diet. Remembering that it con- 
tains chiefly starch, with nitrogen in small proportion, 
and almost no fat or mineral elements, and just 
sufficing perhaps, with a small quantity of the former, 
to meet the wants of an inactive population in a 
tropical climate, the first addition necessary for the 
people who dwell on the temperate margin of this 
limit, and just beyond it, will be a notable proportion 
of fat, and with it a little addition of nitrogen. 
Hence an illustration of one of the first efforts to 
make a dish of rice " complete," is afforded by the 
addition of butter and a little Parmesan cheese, in 

the simple risotto^ from which, as a start- ^, ^, , ^ 
^ Needful ad- 

ing point, improvement, both for nutri- ditions in the 

tive purposes and for the demands of the * 

palate, may be carried to any extent (see p. 164). 
Fresh additions are made in the shape of marrow, of 
morsels of liver, etc., of meat broth with onion and 
spice, which constitute the mixture, when well pre- 
pared, nutritious and highly agreeable. The analogue 

of this mainly Italian dish is the pilau 

asa "pilaff." 
or ///^_^ of the orientals, consisting, as it 

chiefly does, of rice lightly boiled in the broth of a 
fowl, a basis susceptible of various slight modifica- 
tions and additions (see p. 167). The curry of 
rabbit or of poultry and the kedgeree of fish are 



Digitized by 



Google 



86 Food and Feeding. 

further varieties which it is unnecessary to describe. 

Following the same combination to Spain, we find it 

a popular national dish, not greatly differing from the 

"Fowl with foregoing, in the polio con arroz, which 

"c^" consists of abundance of rice, stewed 

with meat-broth and containing morsels of fowl, 

bacon, and sausage, with appetizing spices, and 

sufficing for an excellent meal 

Another farinaceous product of world-wide use is 

the maize or Indian corn. With a fair 
Maize* 

amount of nitrogen, starch, and mineral 

elements, it contains also a good proportion of fat, 

and is made into bread, cakes, and puddings of 

various kinds. It is nearly complete, but capable of 

improvement by the addition of nitrogen. Hence, in 

the United States, where it is largely used, it is often 

eaten with beans, under the name of "succotash." 

In Italy it is ground into the beautiful yellow flour 

which is conspicuous in the streets of almost every 

town ; when made into a firm paste, by boiling in 

water, and sprinkled with Parmesan cheese, a nitro- 

genous aliment, it becomes what is known 

as polentay and is largely consumed 

with some relish in the shape of fried fish, sardines, 

sausage, little birds, or morsels of fowl or goose, by 

which, of course, fresh nitrogen is added. Macaroni 

has been already alluded to in connection with wheat, 

from which it is made ; although rich in nitrogenous 

and starchy materials, it is deficient in fat. Hence it 

is boiled and eaten with butter and Parmesan (i 



Digitized by 



Google 



Potato^ how Made Complete. 87 

ritalienne) and with tomatoes, which furnish saline 
matters, with good meat gravy or with milk (see p. 

163). 

Nearer home the potato forms a vegetable basis, in 

composition resembling rice in abundance _ 

The potato 
of starch, but with much less proteids, 

and requiring therefore additions of nitrogenous and 
fatty elements. The Irishman's inseparable ally, the 
pig, is the natural, and to him necessary, complement 
of the tuber, making the latter a complete and 
palatable dish. The everyday combi- requires 
nation of mashed potato and sausage is ^^^ matter, 
an unconsciously made illustration of the same 
principle. In the absence of pork, the potato eater 
substitutes a cheap oily fish, the herring. The com- 
bination of fatty material with the potato is still 
further illustrated in our baked potato and butter, 
in fried potatoes in their endless variety of form, in 
potato mashed with milk or cream, also as served 
in the ordinary way with mattre (Thdtel butter ; finally 
arriving at the most perfect and finished combination 
in the pommes de terre sauties au beurre of a first-class 
French restaurant, where it becomes almost ^plat de 
luxe. Even the simple bread and butter Bread 
or bread and cheese of our own country Juttl^^or 
equally owe their form and popularity cheese, 
to physiological necessity; the deficient fat of the 
bread being supplemented by the fatty elements of 
each addition, the cheese supplying also its proportion 
of nitrogenous matter, which exists so largely in its 



Digitized by 



Google 



88 Food and Feeding. 

peculiar proteid, caseine. So again, all the suet 
puddings, "short cake," plum cakes, pie-crust, or 
pastry, whether baked or boiled, which consist simply 
of farinaceous food rendered stronger nutriment by 
the addition of fatty matters contained in the butter, 
lard, milk, and eggs, inevitably used in making them. 
All are illustrations of the same principle practically 
applied by their inventors, without the slightest 
consciousness that they were fulfilling a natural and 
essential law of life. 

In the same way almost every national dish might 
be analyzed, up to the pot-au-feii of our neighbours, 
the right management of which combines the nutritious 
quality of flesh with the abundant aroma and flavour 
of fresh vegetables, together with their useful saline 
constituents, which enter so largely into this 
economical and excellent mess (see pp. 138, 139). 
Among the poorer classes this dish is, of course, 
intended to supplement a considerable quantity of 
bread, which contains the efficient complement 
of carbo-hydrates. 

It will be apparent that, up to this point, our esti- 
All the fore- "i^ite of the value of these combinations 
going dishes has been limited, or almost so, by their 
simplest physiological completeness as foods, and 

**^Smplete" by their economical value in relation to 
food. the resources of that great majority of all 

populations, which is poor. But when the inexorable 
necessity for duly considering economy has been 
complied with, the next aim is to render food as 



Digitized by 



Google 



Food to be Agreeable also. 89 

easily digestible as possible, and agreeable to the 
senses of taste, smell, and sight. 

The hard labourer with simple diet, provided his 
aliment is complete and fairly well cooked, will suffer 
little from indigestion. There may be a sameness 
in the small range of foods within his reach ; but he 
eats with appetite and zest, for, after all, "hunger 
is the best sauce." He cannot be guilty, for want 
of means, of eating too much, fertile source of 
deranged stomach with those who have an unlimited 
supply ; physical labour being also in many circum- 
stances the best preventive of dyspepsia. "Live 
on sixpence a day and earn it," attributed to Abernethy 
as the sum of his dietary for a gluttonous eater, is 
a maxim of value, endorsed by millions. But for the 
numerous sedentary workers in shops, offices, in 
business and professions of all kinds, the dish must 
not only be *' complete ; " it must be so prepared as 
to be easily digestible by stomachs of moderate 
power, and it should also be as appetizing and agree- 
able as circumstances admit. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER V. 

Food of the middle-class Englishman, and its routfne—Cookery, 
the process of rendering food digestible and nutritious by 
heat — First, heat applied through water~(^) Boiling — The 
process described — ^The effect of temperature in coagulating 
albumen — Treatment of meat in cooking depends solely on 
this action — Temperatures observed by thermometer during 
process of boiling — System of slow cooking at low tempera- 
tures — The "Bain Marie" — Captain Warren's pot — The 
Norwegian cooker — Boiling of vegetables — (b) Steaming— 
{c) Stewing and braising — The distinction between them — 
Slow cooking at low temperatures and its value — Receipt 
for cooking a ham thus in thirty-six hours — Bceufd la mode. 

On questioning the average middle-class Englishman 
as to the nature of his food, the all but universal 
Indifference answer is, " My living is plain, always 

to cookery roast and boiled " — words which but too 

amongf 

middle clearly indicate the dreary monotony, 

^ ^®®' not to say unwholesomeness, of his 

daily food ; while they furthermore express his satis- 
faction, such as it is, that he is no luxurious feeder, 
and that, in his opinion, he has no right to suffer from 
an indigestion. Joints of beef and mutton, of which 
we all know the very shape and changeless odours, 
follow one another at his table in the same unvarying 
order, six roast to one boiled, and have done so ever 



Digitized by 



Google 



''Roast and Boiled!' 91 

since he began to keep house some five and twenty 
years ago! I am not sanguine enough to suppose 
that this uniform routine, which rules the dietary of 
the great majority of British families of moderate 
and even of ample means, will be disturbed by any 
suggestions of mine Nevertheless, in some younger 
households, where habits, gradually forming through 
the force of example, have not yet hardened into 
law, there may be a disposition to adopt a healthier 
diet and a more agreeable variety of aliment And 
this, it may be safely aflSrmed, will probably not be 
discovered by any researches for new forms of animal 
food. Often as the lament has been uttered, that 
some hitherto unknown product in the shape of meat 
or bird, cultivated or wild, is not to be found, seeing 
that the butcher's shop affords so small a range for 
choice, it is not from such a source that whole- 
some and pleasing additions to the table will be 
obtained. 

But the consideration of variety, and the method 
of attaining it, will occupy us hereafter. "Roast and 
At present we must deal with the " Roast Boiled.*' 
and Boiled " already referred to. These are, in fact, 
the Alpha and Omega, not as two terminal items in 
a series, but as constituting the sum total of the 
culinary forces known to our respected paterfamilias, 
excepting that he may, perhaps, admit with more 
or less hesitating approval, that the frying-pan, as 
a kitchen utensil, is certainly not to be entirely for- 
gotten. 



Digitized by 



Google 



92 Food and Feeding. 

But of these processes, the principles which govern 
their application, and the elementary rules of the art 
in making it, he knows nothing, having never felt 

, interest therein. His cook probably 

Igfnorance of jt ^ 

the principles knows little more. She learned by 

o cooicery. ^^ ^^^ ^^ thumb," and has always found 

its light suffice for the limited requirements hitherto 

made on her powers in such service. When she has 

to prepare one of the aforesaid joints, whether by 

"boiling" or by "roasting," it has probably never 

occurred to her to inquire what temperature the meat 

should attain in order to achieve her purpose, by 

either method ; nor, to tell the truth, was she ever 

curious about the matter. And there are not many 

mistresses who could inform her respecting the 

principles referred to, whatever familiarity they may 

possess with the practice of the culinary art. But 

No true art an acquaintance with principles tends 

uSderatend- largely to facilitate the perfect exercise 

ingthem, of all art; hence I shall very briefly 

sketch those which should be known, and are happily 

now being taught to the pupils who pass through 

a really eflicient school of cookery. Completely 

. ignored by all the old kitchen manuals 

explained in and receipt books, being, in fact, un- 
manuals. « , . . , ,, 

known to their writers, they are equally 

wanting in some of the most popular modern guides 

to cooking. A few teachers and authors have learned 

to insist on their importance and expound them ; 

but these are at present exceptions to the rule. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Definition of Cookery. 93 

First, in order to illustrate what I mean by prin- 
ciples, I will define cookery as almost ^Qoi^g— ^ 

invariably implying a process of render- process of 

reiiQenii&r 
ing various foods, whether animal or foodattrac- 

vegetable, which cannot be agreeably or nuteitious 

safely eaten in their natural state, attrac- ^y ^^^ 

tive, digestible, and nutritious, by the application of 

heat through different means or media, and at greatly 

differing degrees of temperature. 

I shall briefly consider, first, the process of cooking 

food through the medium of water, ,, . 

Vanoiis 
employed at a temperature of 2 1 2° Fahr., methods 

as {a) boiling; by the steam only of "^ ' 
boiling water, as {V) steaming; afterwards as {c) 
stewing and braising, in which lower temperatures 
than boiling are adopted, while the process is con- 
tinued for a much longer period. 

Secondly, will follow the process of cooking food 
in dry heated air, as in {d) baking ; or by radiation 
of heat from a clear fire, as in (^) roasting ; or on 
a grill above it, commonly known as {c) broiling. 

Lastly, the process of cooking by immersion in oil 
at a much higher temperature than can be obtained 
by any boiling in water, which is " frying." 

First, the cooking of meat by means of boiling 
water, although this is really effected in Bv means 
the interior of the portion or joint con- Jwtt^:^ 
siderably under the boiling temperature, "boiling." 
Water "boils" when heated to 212° Fahr. at the sea- 
level; but to attain the best results from cookery, 



Digitized by 



Google 



94 Food and Feeding. 

a much lower temperature may be employed, as we 
shall learn hereafter; "boiled meat" being, in fact, 
never really boiled throughout. It should also be 
remembered that the heat obtained by the act of 
boiling varies in proportion to the elevation of the 
spot above the level just named, at which the process 
takes place. Thus, water boils at a temperature 
several degrees lower for every thousand feet of 
elevation ; therefore in mountain climbing, it is quite 
possible to reach a height at which water boils when 
not sufficiently hot even to cook an egg efficiently, 
which can be done at i8o°. 

Now, in the culinary treatment of flesh of all kinds 
Two modes and of fish, by water, the object to be 
co^g attained by the process must first be 

meat ; distinctly apprehended. If from a given 

portion of flesh it is desired to extract as much of 
the soluble portions as possible, as for the purpose 
of making soup or beef-tea, the course pursued will 
be directly opposite to that which is necessary when 
the object is to prepare the portion for a dish to be 
consumed at the table. In the latter case, we desire 
to retain all the nutritive and sapid qualities of the 
meat within the portion, leaving none in the water 
used for cooking. In the former case, we leave the 
flesh, if possible, exhausted of flavour and nourishing 
juices, nearly all of which we desire to find in the 
water employed. 

The principle relied on to accomplish our aim in 
each case is based on the fact that the albumen, 



Digitized by 



Google 



Cooking Meat by Hot Water. 95 

which pervades both flesh and fish, is fluid and soluble 

at low temperatures, say above the , 

, o T^ , depending on 

freezing-point up to about 150 Fahr., effect of neat 

while it gradually becomes more solidi- 
fied and insoluble at temperatures of about 160° and 
upwards. Hence, if we desire to realize the first- 
named object, for stock soup or beef-tea, some meat, 
previously cut fine, is macerated for two j, por 
or three hours in cool or tepid water, l>eef-te*; 
after which the temperature is very slowly raised to 
about 150°, and maintained there for. some time 
At the end of the process, not only much soluble 
nutritive matter referred to as albumen, but other 
valuable constituents, "extractives," and salts, will 
be found dissolved in the liquid also. See the 
process for making beef-tea, which will be found in 
the Appendix. 

If, on the contrary, we desire to retain within the 
portion, say a leg of mutton, all its 2. For cook- 
nutritive quality and its natural juices "^8: a joint, 
and its flavour, for a dish at table, the joint is to be 
immersed in a capacious pot of boiling commence 
water, to which a little salt has been with boiling 
added, and kept boiling for from five to seven 
minutes. The object of this is to solidify or coagu- 
late, as it is usually termed, a thin layer of albumen 
on the entire surface of the joint. By a few 
this means, the meat is enclosed in ^"^*® 
an impervious casing, which effectually surface; 
prevents the escape of all the fluid albumen of the 



Digitized by 



Google 



96 Food and Feeding. 

interior, and of the salts into the surrounding water, 

however long the joint remains there. When the 

boiling has continued for the short time named, 

nothing will be gained by maintaining that high 

then a con- temperature ; it is, on the contrary, rather 

tinuouslower injurious than otherwise. The meat will 

temperature \ 

"simmer- be in better condition at table if the pot 

"*^* is removed a little from the fire, so that 

a temperature of six or eight degrees below boiling 
is sustained for the usual period of time required, 
which, of course, varies according to the size of the 
joint. This is what is understood by the term " sim- 
mering." Maintaining the water in a state of con- 
stant ebullition involves a large waste of fuel, and 
does not raise the temperature, either of the liquid 
or the meat a single degree. 

In order to ascertain what is the maximum tempe- 

rature attained by "boiling" a leg of 
Experiment 
to ascertain mutton in the usual way, I have several 

iiSeriorof times pushed a self-registering thermo- 

^°"kin^^^^ meter, provided with a pointed metal 

end, closely alongside the central bone 

to the middle of the joint ; and have never found, 

however thoroughly the meat has been cooked, that 

the mercury has risen above i86° or 187°; it has 

generally been a little below that limit Let me say 

that such experiments have been made many years 

ago, I believe thirty or forty. At least twelve or 

fifteen years have elapsed since it was repeated by 

myself in both boiled and roasted meats in order to 



Digitized by 



Google 



Experiments on Temperature. 97 



ascertain by personal observation that in each case 
meat could be well cooked at the temperature named. 
During the last winter, 1897-98, I have repeated 
these experiments very carefully, expressly for this 
edition, taking note of the exact result on each of the 
trials, twenty-four in number. They are as follows : — 



No. 


How 
cooked. 


Name of joint. 


Time of 
cooking. 


Temp, 
found. 








hours. 


Fahr. 


I 


Boiled 


The top side of the round : beef . 


?* 


:H°' 


2 


Braised 


Ham, slow process, p. no . 


36 


3 


BoUed 


The top side of the round : beef . 


2j 


1820 


4 


Roast 


Sirloin of beef . . . . 


2i 


186° 


5 


Boiled 


Tongue 


5 


'§?» 


6 


n 


The top side of the round : beef . 


^f 


186" 


7 


»> 


Leg of mutton .... 


2i 


'f5o 


8 


Roast 


»» >»•••• 


2 


"■K. 


9 


)» 


Sirloin of beef . . . . 


2 


'i°f! 


10 


>» 


Leg of mutton .... 


2 


'f7f 


11 


>» 


Ribs of beef, rolled . 


2 


'K 


12 


)f 


Turkey 


I 


184° 


13 


BoUed 


Top side of the round : beef 
Sirloin of beef . . . . 


2i 


i86i'> 


14 


Roast 


2i 


1871" 


15 


>9 


Saddle of roe venison from Black 










Forest, Germany . 


I 


i76» 


16 


»> 


Leg of mutton . . . . 


2 


'5'o 


17 


»» 


Top side of the round : beef 
Saddle of mutton 


2i 


"^M 


18 


)} 


li 


i8s° 


19 


»> 


Leg of pork . . . . 


2 


'53! 


20 


y» 


Leg of mutton . . . . 


2 


184° 
188° 


21 


)} 


Sirloin of beef . . . . 


2 


22 


f } 


Fillet of veal . . . . 


2i 


isT 


23 


>» 


Top side of the round : beef 


2 


24 


}» 


Sirloin of beef .... 


2 


185P 



But It has long been known that for the purpose of 
thoroughly cooking flesh of any kind, 
there is no necessity to maintain so 
high a temperature as that adopted by 
the ordinary method above described, 



Lower 

temperatures 
cook best if 
enough time 
is given. 



Digitized by 



Google 



98 Food and Feeding. 

provided that the time of exposure to the lower 
degree of heat is considerably prolonged. There is 
a generally accepted table, current in all cookery 
books, indicating the time which every joint requires, 
grounded on its weight ; but this always presupposes 
the boiling point of water, of course to commence 
with, and almost boiling sustained by continual com- 
bustion of fuel afterwards. The flavour of animal 
food is, by the system of prolonged low temperature 
referred to, better, and the meat itself more tender 
and more digestible ; a result which will inevitably 
bring into favour the practice of slow cooking 
when the best methods of conducting it have been 
adopted. 
That flesh so treated is easily digested is due to the 

Why cook- ^^^^ ^^^ ^^ ^^^ temperature of 170'' to 

iogatlow 180'' the albumen contained therein is 

heat mak gs 

flesh sufficiently cooked but not overheated 

gestib e. ^jjj hardened. Any temperature higher 

than the above-named tends to solidify it, and when 

exposed to too much heat, as often happens to a fried 

or over-broiled steak, it then becomes diminished in 

thickness and curved instead of being plump and 

tender, while the shrunken and indurated fibres of 

the over-cooked portion are difficult of digestion by 

an average stomach. 

An excellent mode of securing the desired object 

in boiling is to move the pot containing the portion 

of meat, as soon as the initial boiling of six or 

seven minutes is completed, to a small gas ring or 



Digitized by 



Google 



Bain-marie: War yen's Pot. 99 

lamp, by which a gentle heat, that is, between 180° 
and 190*^, can be maintained for five or six hours 
or more, instead of the two hours usually required, 
say for a joint weighing twelve pounds or there- 
about. 

The "Bain-marie" is an old and very simple appli- 
cation of the principle chiefly employed i^hg « g^, 
for the heating of sauces and for other n^arie." 
purposes where it is desirable to avoid a temperature 
which might injure a delicate product, and especially 
any burning of it. It is simply a small thin saucepan 
suspended within a larger one adapted for the fire, 
and containing water which, when boiling, or nearly 
so, suffices to heat to a few degrees below its own 
temperature the contents of the inner vessel. This 
resembles the method on which the carpenter's 
glue-pot is constructed, with which most persons 
are familiar. 

Captain Warren's cooking-pot is a further develop- 
ment of the same principle, which has ^ . 
long been a favourite with many who Warren's 
appreciate excellence and economy com- 
bined in the work which it is capable of doing. It 
is constructed on the plan of the "Bain-marie" just 
described, but is associated with a steam chamber 
on the top, to be used or not when required. This 
latter may be used for the cooking of vegetables, fish, 
and other foods, thus utilizing the steam formed by the 
boiling water contained in the larger outside vessel, 
which heats the inner one. But the inner is used not 



Digitized by 



Google 



loo Food and Feeding. 

only for stewing and boiling purposes, but also as a 

-^ dry cooker : for no steam can enter it 

Its use in ^ ' 

** drjr " from without, however used ; that is to say, 

°^' a fowl or a portion of meat being placed 

therein can be slowly cooked without water by a pro- 
cess occupying about twice or three times as long 
as that employed for ordinary boiling or roasting. 
In this case the flesh furnishes a quantity of liquid, 
slowly disengaged by low temperature, rising as 
vapour at first, and becoming condensed, with its 
own natural juices, into a broth or gravy, in which, 
at the conclusion of the process, the flesh is found 
partially or wholly immersed. On the top of this 
floats more or less fat in a melted state, and this 
No loss by c^^ b^ removed in the usual manner, 
this process. jg^Q jQgg whatever takes place by this 
method. All the albumen, extractives, and juices of 
the flesh will be found in the inner saucepan when 
H t k ^^^ process is completed. Thus a most 
an Irish admirable and tender Irish stew may be 

made by placing, say about three pounds 
of neck of mutton, cut chiefly from the lower half 
of it in the usual way, or improved, of course, by 
including some cutlets from the upper, with most of 
the fat removed, a little onion, sliced, adding no 
liquid whatever, only a little black pepper and salt 
Example of to taste. The outside pot should con- 
fngatlow" *^^" sufficient water to form a shallow 
temperature, bath for the inner pot which contains 
the meat; the water should be boiling at the 



Digitized by 



Google 



Value of Warren's Pot. loi 

commencement of the process, and for about a 
quarter of an hour afterwards, to antagonize the effect 
of the cold meat introduced. Then the pot should 
be removed to the corner of the fire, or over a gas 
ring, so as to maintain the external bath water at 
or about boiling point At the end of five or six 
hours or so the meat will be found perfectly tender, 
delicately cooked, full of flavour, and amply supplied 
with its own excellent gravy. In fact, the cooking 
has been finally completed by means of a braise 
consisting of the gravy thus produced. When the 
melted fat has been removed, the potatoes, which 
have been partially cooked in the upper chamber or 
steamer, or in some other vessel separately, should 
be added to the meat in the inner chamber for about 
half an hour before serving in the usual manner, and 
a little stock added if required. 

The meat has been cooked at a temperature of 
about \Z^ or 190° at most, never approaching 200° : 
hence its digestibility from the circumstances ex- 
plained above. If the potatoes for the stew are 
cooked in the steamer, above the meat, the water 
must be kept boiling during the latter part of the 
process, about an hour, to supply steam for the 
purpose. The above, or a good-sized Cooking of 
fowl, can be cooked in a Warren pot of g^^ "* 
the smallest or least expensive size ; but niaancr. 
I advise that a fowl should be first boiled in a 
separate vessel for five minutes only for reasons 
already given. Some think it an improvement to 



Digitized by 



Google 



102 Food and Feeding. 

add about half a pint of warm stock, to make, with 
the juices which escape, the basis of an excellent 
sauce when skimmed and thickened. And on the 
whole I think that poultry maybe generally "boiled" 
with advantage in about a quart of light stock, when 
the ordinary process with a saucepan is used ; in 
either case adopting the slow process by low tem- 
perature, i.e. about i/o"* Fahn, any of the liquor not 
required for sauce going to the stock-pot for white 
soups and sauces. And larger portions of meat may 
be cooked in the same manner in Warren pots of 
appropriate size. 

But still lower temperatures suffice if more time 
be devoted to the cooking ; and this is advantageous 
where the material to be cooked is unusually tough. 
An illustration of this principle has been familiar 
-^ . to some for many years, in the action 

cooking of the Norwegian cooking apparatus ; 

appara . j^^^ ^^^ people know how effective a 
prolonged moderate temperature is in producing 
tender and well-cooked viands of various kinds. 

This apparatus consists of a stout tinned iron cylin- 
Construction der I2ins. high and lo ins. in diameter, 
described. ^j^jj ^ handle like that of a pail, which 
renders it portable, and a well-fitting cover. It is 
lined with a close packing of woollen materials \\ ins. 
thick, to prevent the escape of heat from the inner 
vessel, which contains the portion to be cooked. This 
vessel, also a cylinder, is made of tin, and has a " hot- 
water jacket " to be filled with boiling water, the only 



Digitized by 



Google 



Norwegian Cooker, 103 

source of heat for the entire cooking operation. And 
its cavity, measuring 7 ins. in depth and sj ins. in 
diameter, will hold a fowl weighing over two pounds 
in the vertical position, or the best end of a neck 
of mutton containing five bones when neatly trimmed ; 
and this latter should be accompanied with a few 
slices of onion and a little black pepper and saltj 
nothing else. 

The following mode of using it has been employed 
in my own kitchen, and the temperatures taken 
by myself. A fowl weighing two or two and a half 
pounds is put into a four or five quart saucepan, 
boiling on the fire or gas stove. Ebul- . 

lition ceases for half a minute, owing to directions 
the coldness of the body introduced, ^^'^"^fi^**- 
and then reappears : it should be continued actively, 
but for five minutes only. Then remove at once and 
place it without addition of any kind in the central 
cavity of the Norwegian cooker. Boiling water is 
next to be poured in to fill the hot-water jacket 
which surrounds it, and the lid made fast. But no 
fluid of any kind is put into the cavity with the 
fowl. The apparatus is now accurately closed, and 
set aside in a corner, screened from draughts, but 
not near to any source of heat, after which it is 
to remain untouched for eighteen or twenty hours. 
On opening it the fowl will be found perfectly 
cooked and tender throughout, and the 
temperature of the liquor will be from 
about 80*" to 90^ This should be skimmed from all 



Digitized by 



Google 



I04 Food and Feeding. 

fat, and serve as a basis for the sauce. The initial 
No waste boiling is of course intended to seal 
possible. ^jjg surface, and to prevent the juices 

of the bird from escaping ; but some portion will of 
course find its way out into the cavity, and is to be 
utilized in the manner suggested, so that no particle 
is lost. The fowl can be served at once, masked 
with a good white sauce or otherwise, according to 
Process for taste. The same process and time will 
mutton. cook mutton admirably. It will be quite 

tender, and its juice is also served as gravy in the 
dish. Vegetables can be cooked apart to garnish, 
chosen either, for the purpose of a "haricot" or for 
an " Irish stew." 

A most useful lesson is thus afforded to illustrate 
the power of a low temperature, if continued long 
enough, to cook meat thoroughly, and at the same 
time to render it tender and digestible. It is not 
necessary, however, to adopt this apparatus for 
ordinary purposes. Equal results can be obtained 
in a shorter time by the Warren pot for all practical 
purposes, following the directions before given. 

A few words are necessary here respecting the 

Boiline of boiling of vegetables ; some of these are 

veget«)les. perhaps better steamed, a question which 

will be considered below. For the most part, green 

vegetables are better boiled. They should be first 

thoroughly washed, to free them from 
Preparation. 

dirt and insects, but not allowed to soak 

for an hour or more in water, which only does harm. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Boiling Vegetables: Steaming. 105 

When ready to be cooked, they should be put into 

a saucepan of boiling water^ to which salt has been 

added at the rate of a tablespoonful to half a gallon ; 

and if the water be hard, a very small ,, ^ , 

Use of soda, 
quantity of soda should be used also ; 

if rain or any other soft water can be obtained, no 

soda should be employed. They should be kept 

briskly boiling during the time required, and generally 

without the saucepan-lid ; and the cooking should 

commence so as to be finished exactly at the time 

they are required at table, as they take injury by 

being kept standing for any length of time before 

they are served. It is best to transfer them at once, 

after careful draining, into hot vegetable dishes. 

Nothing looks more slovenly and disagreeable than 

water drained from the vegetables occupying the 

bottom of the vegetable dish. It should ^ .,. 

Boiling peas, 
be remembered in boiling peas that soda 

is never to be used ; it destroys their delicate flavour ; 

if any addition is made, besides the usual quantity 

of salt, it should be a little sugar. 

b. Steaming, for various purposes, especially for 

cooking fish and some vegetables, is pre- 

ferable to boiling, because so much of 

their best constituents is lost by the latter process. 

Respecting its applicability to fish, see the chapter on 

the subject. Vegetables are deteriorated by the loss 

of their saline elements in boiling water : 

potatoes, 
this is strikingly evident in the case of 

potatoes, which, peeled and boiled as they usually 



Digitized by 



Google 



io6 Food and Feeding. 

are, become insipid, in comparison with those which 
are steamed or boiled in their "jackets.*' The value 
of the jacket is well-known to the Irish peasant, who 
rarely or never removes it until the tuber is cooked, 
and other ^^^ other vegetables, such as cauliflower, 
vegetebles. broccoli, brussel-sprouts, etc., should be 
steamed for the same reason, although the colour 
is not so bright and clear as when boiled, as 
they usually are, with a little soda added to the 
water. 

A simple steamer consists of a saucepan half- 
The filled with water kept at boiling, and 

steamer. replenished as it wastes, with a cylin- 

drical receiver for the fish or vegetable, of about 
equal capacity, fitting to its top when the lid is 
removed, to take its place at the top of the 
receiver instead. This receiver admits through its 
base, which is perforated with small holes, a constant 
atmosphere of steam at 212° The cooking is thus 
effected with but very slight loss of the saline 
elements referred to. 

c. Stewing and Braising, processes by which meat 
and poultry are prepared and served in the most 
tender condition possible, and in an attractive form 
for the table, are somewhat neglected in this country. 
There is a marked distinction between "braising" 
and "stewing" not sufficiently recognized here; 
hence, probably, the infrequency with which a true 
braise appears at our tables. 

Stewing. This consists in nothing more than a 



Digitized by 



Google 



stewing, Bxuf a la Mode. 107 

long cooking in water at low temperature. Appli- 
cable to either beef or mutton, from which most 
of the fat should be removed, the 
meat should be placed, more or less 
divided into small portions with the bones belonging 
thereto, in an enanielled saucepan with a moderate 
quantity of water, a few vegetables for flavour, very 
little salt, and some pepper to taste. ^ ,^ 
The cover being put on, it should be ciplcbylow 
placed over a small gas ring or charcoal, ^"^ 
or on a portion of the hot plate, where it cannot rise 
to boiling-point In fact, the temperature should 
never be above 170°, and continue three, four, or 
six hours according to the quantity; at all events^ 
until the meat is quite tender. The coarser and 
even tougher portions become by this process very 
digestible, appetizing, and nutritious. Much the 
same result may be obtained in the '* Warren's 
cooking-pot " already referred to. 

A standard illustration of effective stewing or 
common braising exists in the produc- ^ . 
tion of a well-known French dish, bosuf **bcBuf ala 
dr la modey which is always good, when 
served in a simple, inexpensive manner for the 
people, and may be rendered most excellent with 
more care and refinement, so as to be suitable 
at a table of the highest rank, I shall subjoin 
Gouffi6*s receipt; he regards the process as an im- 
portant and typical one, and gives it at length. See 
Appendix, p. 288. 



Digitized by 



Google 



io8 Food and Feeding. 

Braising. Of this there are two methods, one 

simple, another more complex. In the 

* former, the meat may be just covered 

with a strong liquor of vegetable and animal juices 

(technically called braise or mirepoix) in a closely 

t,^ covered vessel, from which as little 

methods; evaporation as possible is permitted, 

and is cooked in the same manner as that above 

recommended here for stewing. By this treatment 

^ . .. tough fibrous flesh, even if old, whether 

what it ** 

accom- of poultry, of cattle, or meat unduly 

^ ^* fresh, such as it is difficult to avoid 

during the summer heat in towns, is made tender 
and easily digestible. Moreover, it becomes im- 
pregnated with the odours and flavour of fresh 
vegetables (carrots, turnips, celery, onions) and sweet 
herbs, while the liquor itself, slowly reduced in the 
process, furnishes the most appropriate, fragrant, and 
delicious sauce, with which to surround the portion 

1. ij u when served at table. Thus, also, meats 

should be ' ' 

more popular which are dry, or with little natural 
flavour, as veal, become saturated with 
vegetable juices, and combined with sapid substances, 
which render the food succulent and delicious to the 
palate. Small portions sufficing for a single meal, 
however small the family, can be thus dealt with ; so 
that a richauffiy or cold meat for to-morrow, is not a 
thing of necessity, but only of choice when preferred. 
To judge by the braised products which rarely 
appear on English tables, and by such descriptions of 



Digitized by 



Google 



Braising, two Modes. 109 

it as exist in our cookery books, the process itself is 
scarcely understood. Certainly it is not one uniform 
method, to which the term is applied, and conse- 
quently an ordinary cook's conception of it is apt to 
be somewhat loose and indefinite. 

The first principle essential to a braise is, that the 
meat so to be treated must be very Principles 
slowly cooked, that is, at a comparatively ®^ braising, 
low temperature, and in a closely covered vessel, and 
with a small quantity of liquid. 

The second principle is, that the meat shall be im- 
pregnated in this process with the flavours of vege- 
tables, herbs, of highly flavoured cured meats, and 
some spices, and, if desired, with wine. This may be 
done without the mirepoix above described, namely, 
by placing in the braise-pot around the meat, slices of 
ham, smoked sausage, or bacon, cut carrots, parsnips, 
turnips, onions, various herbs, a bay leaf, cloves or 
other spices, together with a small quantity of good 
meat stock. Another way of conducting the braise, 
as already intimated, is to make beforehand a strong 
decoction of all these materials, with stock and wine, 
serving in part to flavour and in part to preserve the 
liquor or mirepoiXy so that it may be kept for a time, 
ready for use when wanted. A small quantity of this 
is then to serve as the fluid in which the portion of 
meat or bird, etc., is to be braised. 

Perhaps no better illustration of the process can 
be afforded than the method of cooking a ham, 
which I have adopted for a good many years, with 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 10 Food and Feeding. 

results known to not a few of my friends, as successful 
in producing this favourite dish as a hot entremet, 
full of flavour, while the lean portion is absolutely 
tender and digestible. 

I have carefully formulated the steps of the process 
here, after experiments at different temperatures, and 
times devoted thereto. 

Receipt for cooking a ham at a low temperature 
Receipt for '^^"^ continued. — I prefer a thick, plump 

cooking: a ham, say from lO to 12 lbs. for a 
ham, 

moderate sized party (12 to 16), York 

or Cumberland by choice. It must first lie some 

hours in cold water; if a highly smoked one, and 

you desire to retain the flavour, 8 or 10 hours will 

sufiice ; if it is not much smoked, but has been fully 

salted, it should remain 12 hours or more. This 

to occupy process should be concluded at least 36 

36 hours. hours before the hour fixed for dinner. 

As soon as it is removed from the cold water. 
Previous scour with a softish scrubbing brush, so 

preparations. ^ ^^ remove all dirt from the surface. 

You will have already prepared the day before a 
good meat stock well flavoured with vegetables, 
carrots, turnips, parsnips, onions, and a faggot of 
kitchen herbs. 

The ham is to be placed in an oval cooking-pot just 
adapted to its size ; sufficient of the above stock to 
cover the ham is to be added, allowing room for a 
few slices of the fresh vegetables just named to be put 
in also. Place the pot on the fire, and bring the stock 



Digitized by 



Google 



Slow Cooking; for a Ham. iii 

soon to the boiling point, maintaining this for five 
minutes only, no more. Then withdraw the pot from 
the fire so that the stock may gradually cool to a 
temperature about 170^ but not exceed- Temperature 

ing that Keep it thus 12 hours. For never to 

exceed 170°. 
this purpose it is best to place it over a 

gas ring, which is easily regulated ; and to have a 
thermometer which ranges up to 212°, the boiling 
point, precisely like a "bath thermometer," that is, 
with a tin receptacle at the lower end guarding the 
bulb, only that the bottom of the receptacle should 
be cut away for kitchen use, otherwise organic matter 
would lodge there, soon decompose, and become 
noxious.* 

Suppose at the end of this time that by means of 
the thermometer, and by adjustment of the gas, that 
the temperature has been steadily maintained, pre- 
paration must be made for leaving it for the night, so 
that the temperature shall not henceforth exceed 
150°; on the other hand, it shall not fall below 130°. 
With a little observation, it is easy to ascertain how 
much gas suffices to do this during the night ; and a 
small quantity of fresh stock to fully cover the ham is 
added the last thing. The cover of the pot being 
always on, the loss by evaporation is very small ; but 
towards the close of the process, the stock may be 
allowed to diminish one-third or so of the original 
quantity. 

* Negretti & Zambra, Regent Street, supply these made as 
described. See frontispiece for thermometer used. 



Digitized by 



Google 



112 Food and Feeding. 

You will examine the thermometer on arriving at 
the kitchen in the morning. It may be found perhaps 
a little less than 130° which is a smaller error than a 
rise above 170°. With a sharp skewer ascertain in two 
places at least whether the ham is becoming tender. 
If it is quite so, all you have to do is to let the tem- 
perature be about 140° or so during the day until the 
next step in the proceeding. If still not tender 
enough, let it be 160°. If quite tender, let it be 130** 
or so. 

Supposing you have arrived at about four hours 
The wine before the time for serving, the ham is 
added. ^^^ taken out and skinned in the usual 

manner, then returned to the pot, together with a 
bottle of good wine emptied into it, which, of course, 
reduces the temperature. Raise this gradually to 
140° as before. If a red wine, let it be a good 
mid-quality Burgundy ; or a good red Italian wine 
may suffice. If white be preferred, a bottle of fair 
Sauterne or Graves. 

The temperature last named is to be continued 
— . until the ham is served. The remaining 

contents of the pot are now to be care- 
fully skimmed to remove fat, a portion strained 
through a tammy without addition, reduced to a 
glaze in a small saucepan, and served in a sauce-boat 
apart. Or, if preferred, a cherry or other acid-sweet 
sauce may be substituted. I strongly recommend 
the former for a ham which is served hot. 

It is very easy to overcook a ham in 36 hours, so 



Digitized by 



Google 



Braising, the Complete Process. 113 

that the flesh falls from the bones, and can scarcely 

be cut. It is equally certain that it ^ , 

Caiition« 
will not be so, although it will be 

deliciously tender, provided that the rules above 

given respecting the temperature are followed. 

The third principle in braising is not generally 
considered essential to the process, although it is un- 
doubtedly the last refinement necessary to produce a 
first-rate example. It is that of partially browning or 
half-roasting the portion also ; and this may be accom- 
plished in two ways. The legitimate or original way 
of doing this, is, to have well fitted to the braise-pot a 
sunk copper or iron cover, in which some hot cinders 
or charcoal are placed, towards the end of the process, 
when the braise is nearly finished, in order to transmit 
downwards a scorching heat to the top of the portion 
which is uncovered by the liquid in the pot below. 
The upper surface of the meat thus obtains that 
browning of the surface which is the crowning addi- 
tion to other flavours, before referred to as '* the taste 
of the fire." In treating it thus, the portion should be 
covered, especially if a fowl, with a piece of white 
paper, which serves to shield a delicate morsel from 
a too fierce heat. The other and inferior way is to 
very lightly roast the meat, before putting it into the 
pot to braise, and so dispense with the hot cinders or 
charcoal on the cover ; but this hardens the flesh, and 
tends to prevent the juices penetrating it, and cannot 
be recommended. 

It may be seen, then, that a braise in which no 

H 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 14 Food and Feeding. 

roasting is employed, does not, after the necessary 
materials have been prepared, require a great deal of 
attention, if the cook knows the corner of the fire or 
hot plate, where the slow and very gentle temperature 
will maintain itself regularly for three or four hours. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER VI. 

Secondly, cooking by dry heat in hot air — (a) Baking — In dry 
compartments heated by steam — Becker's process and others 
— Atkinson's American oven — The English kitchener— (^) 
Roasting — The " taste of the fire " — Its attractive peculiarity 
— (c) Broiling, another illustration of this — The process 
explained — The third method, cooking by high temperature 
in heated oil or fiying — Process explained — ^A careful atten- 
tion to minute particulars necessary to insure success — The 
omelette -— Opposite principles in French and English 
cookery considered — Superiority of each in certain par- 
ticulars. 

This chapter will be devoted to the application of 
heat in dry air for various processes of cooking 
ordinarily thus conducted, being the second method 
referred to at the opening of the last chapter, leading 
finally to the third and last method, viz. the use of 
the highest temperatures, obtained by "frying" in 
heated oil. 

Secondly, the application of heat in dry air by 
the processes known as "baking," "roast- n^ Cooking 
ing,"*' broiling." in'dryair. 

(a) Baking. — Cooking in closed vessels, ovens or 
other compartments in dry heated air, whether the 
heat is obtained from adjacent fires, or from steam 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 1 6 Food and Feeding. 

at a high temperature externally applied, may be 
regarded as a prcxess of baking. The latter mode in 
which successful cooking is thus accomplished, with- 
out hardening the albuminoid tissues of meat, has 
been adopted on a large scale for institutions where 
the demand is constant and uniform in kind. A 
good example of this is the apparatus patented 

„ , , by Becker, of Berlin (1882). The 

Becker's ' 

principle consists in ascertaining the 



temperatures best adapted for cook- 
ing each kind of food — for example, for making 
soup; for producing tender flesh, juicy, and not 
over-dried ; and for serving vegetables in a condition 
adapted for digestion. The highest temperature of 
the three is generally demanded for the last-named, 
or the longest exposure to heat ; for the starch cells 
throughout the tissue must be burst to scatter their 
contents, before the required condition is attained. 
Different compartments in the apparatus are main- 
tained at varied temperatures by regulating the steam 
supplied to each, and the economy in fuel thus 
effected on the large scale on which this method is 
applied is considerable. This plan was adopted and 
systematically applied a few years ago by my friend, 
Mr. L. O. Smith, of Stockholm, for the operatives 
and their families in that city ; and detailed accounts 
of it were published at the time (1884) in this 
country. And the results were accepted as demon- 
strating the efficiency and the economy of cookery 
at low temperatures. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Cooking in Hot Air. 117 

The Rev. Canon Moore Ede, of Gateshead, was 

attracted by Mn Smith's successful use „ ,, 

Rev. Moore 
of Becker's apparatus, and visited Stock- Ede's^ 

holm for the purpose of testing its value, ®^^P®^^^*- 

He embodied his observations, which were in the 

highest degree favourable, in an admirable lecture 

on cheap food and cooking at Sunderland in 1884, 

which has since been cheaply printed, and had a 

deservedly large sale.* He employed for his cheap 

dinners for children a large box of sheet-iron, felted 

throughout inside, two and a half inches thick, and 

lined with tin-plate» Two gas jets will raise the 

contents (thirty gallons) to the boiling point, and a 

very small amount of flame suffices to maintain the 

lower temperatures preferred for as many hours as 

are required. 

Some twelve years or more ago, a very complete 

and efficient apparatus, adapted for all Mr. E. At- 

the uses of a small or large family, 5?SS^ 

was designed and thoroughly tested in Oven." 

America by Mr. Edw. Atkinson, of Brookline, Mass. 

He first introduced the apparatus to the public as 

the "Aladdin Cooker," for boiling, stewing, etc., and 

has rendered it more useful and efficient for all 

methods of cooking, except broiling and frying, 

under the name of the " Aladdin Oven." 

♦ " Cheap Food and Cheap Cooking." London : W. Scott, 
14, Paternoster Square. Price \d, 1884. There are excellent 
hints on the management of penny dinners for school children. 
See also " Children's Dinner Tables," in the Appendix. 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 1 8 Food dnd Feeding. 

Much IS often said of the economy effected by all 
Q^ ^ J these methods of slow cookery, on the 
economy ground of the smaller loss in weight 

°* ' ' produced by them, as compared with 
roasted meats. This is much less than would appear 
at first sight to be the case. It is quite true that 
a joint weighing fourteen pounds when roasted or 
baked may weigh only eleven, and if cooked in the 
low-temperature chamber may be finished at twelve 
pounds and a half. The difference in weight is due 
to loss of water only ; the far-reaching cooking odours 
amount to nothing. These are produced by slight 
scorching of the surface, one result of which is a highly 
appreciated and appetizing flavour in a very thin 
superficial layer, giving character to roasted and 
broiled meats, which cannot be obtained by any slow 
or closed-chamber process. Mr. Atkinson cleverly 
imitates the appearance of a roast in colour and dry- 
ness of surface by slightly buttering the outside of 
the joint to be "roasted," and covering it with fine 
crumbs, or better still, the raspings of a French roll, 
which will give a browner and a crisper covering. 
But a true roast which " tastes of the fire " can only 
be really produced in front of a well-prepared open 
range. 

The principle on which all of them act is to 
prevent the escape of heat by constructing the oven 
of materials which are thoroughly non-conducting, 
and therefore do not consist of metal, invariably em- 
ployed for kitchen ranges. Metal conducts heat away 



Digitized by 



Google 



Various Modes: Atkinson's. 119 

rapidly, and requires constant supplies of fresh heat, 
a process which renders difScult the maintenance of 
an equable temperature, besides being costly through 
wasteful consumption of fuel. The thick constnic- 
sides of the Aladdin oven are made of ^^^ 
indurated and incombustible papier mdchiy or of a 
wood pulp, desiccated, which is practically almost the 
same thing, one of the best non-conductors of heat 
known, with a thin metallic lining ; the interior cavity 
available for cooking, which is divided by movable 
horizontal partitions for different dishes, measuring 
from a foot to a foot and a half in every direction, 
in the sizes at present mostly used. The heat is 
supplied to the oven by means of an oil lamp below, 
or by gas ; in either case the amount supplied being 
always under the control of the cook. The whole 
of this heat, or nearly so, is conveyed into the interior 
of the chamber — no admission of the products of 
combustion from the lamp or of gas with the air 
there being possible — ^to be utilized for culinary pur- 
poses. A chimney is unnecessary, as the waste pro- 
ducts of the small flame required are inconsiderable, 
and may escape into the apartment. There being 
so little loss of heat, the plan is admirably adapted 
for hot summer weather, since the stove radiates no 
perceptible warmth into the surrounding air. It is 
not intended for cooking rapidly, but at Mode of 
a rate during the day requiring fully "**°fi^' 
double the time consumed by the common kitchen 
range, while for soup-making, stews, or any other 



Digitized by 



Google 



120 Food and Feeding. 

procedure which it is desired to accomplish at a low 
temperature, and by which the best results are 
attained, it should be left at work all night with a 
small jet of gas beneath as the only source of heat 
Bread may be made in it very successfully when the 
boiling and baking processes necessary for a meal 
have been completed, and much heat remains still to 
be utilized.* 

ip) Roasting, or the cooking of meat by heat through 
Cooking radiation, and by heated dry air in front 

raSutMn. ^^ ^ clear, bright fire ; the heat radiating 
(b) "Roast- froi^ which into the "roaster," a metallic 
'^S'' enclosure open towards the fire only, and 

containing the joint, turned therein by means of a 
bottle-jack. The fire, being at its best, the joint, 
poultry, or game, is placed very near at first — an 
analogous proceeding to the initial step in boiling — 
in order to seal the entire surface by coagulating its 
albumen at the outset, and so enclose the fluids 
securely within (see p. 95). This is accomplished in 
about eight to ten minutes for a large joint, or in four 

♦ " The Art of Cooking," by E. Atkinson, LL.D. New York : 
Appleton. 1889. A paper reprinted from the Science Monthly 
for November, 1889, and other reports and papers subsequently. 

Since that date Mr. Atkinson has carried his researches much 
further, embracing the economic and scientific bearings of food- 
production, the nature of man's wants in relation thereto, with 
their results in the form of dietetics appropriate under varied 
circumstances, in a work full of information on alljthese subjects, 
entitled ** The Science of Nutrition, and the Art of Cooking by 
the Aladdin Oven," with directions and receipts. Boston : 
Damrell & Upham. 1896. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Roasting: Taste of the Fire. 121 

or five for a piece of poultry. The roaster is then 

drawn half a foot to a foot further back, so as to 

diminish the heat thenceforward. The ^. ^ ^^^^ 

Gives oppor- 

opportunity of basting the joint, which, tuni^ for 

especially towards the close of the pro- ' 

cess, should be frequently done with dripping from 

the pan below, is one of the advantages of this mode 

of cooking, which cannot be secured by any process 

of baking in an oven. The surface would 

value of. 
become over-dried by the heat, cracked, 

thus permitting vapours to escape, and even charred, 

were it not for the basting, which preserves it moist 

and flexible, and ensures only that precise degree of 

browning, with its agreeable aroma, which is found 

by a connoisseur so precious for its peculiar flavour 

and scent. Want of diligence in using the ladle, and 

of care in regulating the fire, occasions the fat to be 

decomposed and burnt with much evil odour and 

savour. Certainly the proper roasting of poultry 

and game is quite unattainable by any other 

method. 

The well-known " taste of the fire," so appreciated 

by the gourmet, is produced by actual xhe «* taste 

carbonization of the surface of the ©^ the fire." 

roasting portion of the food, and may be largely 

recognized as precious to man, far beyond the domain 

of cookery, strictly so-called. Within it, however, this 

specific quality gives character and value to the 

surface of all broiled and grilled meats; to those 

also which are well browned in frying ; to a slice 



Digitized by 



Google 



122 Food and Feeding. 

of well-made toast (bread); to a thoroughly baked 
potato, the coat of which is partly browned and 
crackled; to the "black onion," which develops a 
marvellous sweetness by the same process; and 
almost always its peculiar charm to the pancake, 
which without it would be flabby and flavourless. 
All the character possessed by caramel, or browned 
sugar, is derived from the carbonization being carried 
so far only that a little sweetness should still linger, 
although a delicate aromatic bitter is produced, each 
flavour enhancing the attraction of its associate ; 
while a new beauty, that of colour, also results. All 
the inimitable fragrance of coffee is an effect of the 
same remarkable change of which partial carboniza- 
tion by heat is the agent. Then the burning of 
almonds, and the roasting of nuts in all their variety, 
furnish further illustrations of the principle. 

So, carbonized wood, for the sake of the essential 
oils which are burned and volatilized in the rising 
smoke, the odours of which are thereby changed and 
communicated to salted meats and fish, thus con- 
ferring upon them a peculiar aroma with a slight 
bitterness of taste, as we all so well know, in 
smoked bacon, hams, tongues, herrings, haddock, 
and salmon. 

Thus it is also to the sense of smell, so closely 
allied as it is with that of taste — of which I shall 
have to say something hereafter — that the odour of 
burning weeds and other vegetable matters is so 
delightful on a fine quiet evening in the country 



Digitized by 



Google 



The Range: Baking, Broiling. 123 

as it floats in an atmosphere undisturbed by the 
breeze. 

To return after this I hope permissible digres- 
sion ; a joint of meat may, however, be well cooked 
in the oven of an ordinary kitchener or complete 
cooking range, as now usually made, so as closely to 
resemble the result obtained by true roasting. The 
conditions are a good supply of heat, as ^^ attemot 
far as possible from the top and both to roast in 
sides of the oven, the ability to ventilate 
when desired, a pan to catch the dripping beneath 
the grating on which the joint rests, that pan resting 
on another an inch or two deeper, containing water 
below, the evaporation of which maintains the dripping 
at a moderate temperature, rendering impossible its 
decomposition or burning with its all-pervading 
offensive odour. In this way the nearest approach 
has been made to accomplish in an oven the results 
achieved by roasting; and for joints of meat it is 
almost successful. It is not possible thus to acquire 
the effect which constant basting of the roast attains, 
and for game certainly the latter process should be 
employed. Those who desire to pursue y^^^ 

this subject further are strongly advised Williams' 

iTTork. 
to make themselves acquainted with a 

work, already referred to, by Mr. M. Williams. It 

deals with the subject very fully, while its lucid and 

interesting style renders it very attractive ; moreover, 

it abounds in quaint and suggestive hints, and is 

valuable, particularly to those who desire to avoid 



Digitized by 



Google 



124 Food and Feeding. 

needless expenditure, and to preserve an intelligent 
method in the exercise of the household economies.* 
(c) Broiling. — Respecting this, I shall say no more 
(c) Broiling • *^^^^ ^'^^ ^^^ ^^ operation resembles 
directions that of roasting, but is applicable to a 
°' ' small portion of flesh, and can be rapidly 

conducted on the gridiron over a clear fire or upon 
a gas grill, which latter can be made available at a 
moment's notice. A clear and smokeless fire is often 
not to be had without considerable delay and pre- 
paration, and then must be exclusively devoted to 
the grill as long as this is required, to the exclusion 
of other processes, except those which are to be 
conducted on the adjacent hot plate. The object 
is to seal the surface of the meat by heat at first, not 
permitting the temperature of the interior to rise to 
a higher point than just suffices to render it tender, 
as it becomes filled and expanded by its own juices, 
which are yielded abundantly in the form of rich red 
gravy when the meat is cut by the consumer a few 
minutes afterwards. Hence the morsel, plump and 
rounded by the action of the heat, must not be touched 
by a fork, the perforations thus made permitting the 
rich natural juices of the meat to escape, but be 
turned when necessary with a pair of light tongs. 
The value of the grill is, perhaps, nowhere better 
understood than in England, especially in relation 
to chops, steak, and kidney ; portions of fowl, or a 

* "The Chemistry of Cooking," by Mattieu Williams. 
London : Chatto & Windus. 1885. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Broiling and Frying. 125 

split chicken, the bladebone, or even a small shoulder 
of mutton — all of which may be thus served in per- 
fection by a competent hand. Still, it is not quite 
so widely appreciated as it deserves to be in the 
preparation of many a small dish of 
fish, fowl, and meat, or " a bone," to say many little 
nothing of a grilled mushroom, either ^* 

alone, or as an accompaniment to any of them. And 
it may be worth while, perhaps, remarking that the 
sauce par excellence for broils is mushroom ketch- 
up ; and the garnish cool lettuce, watercress, or 
endive. 

Lastly, Frying. — Cooking by immersion in oil 
or melted fat at temperatures greatly 
exceeding that of boiling water, and ^"*^» 
popularly known as frying. This process is rarely 
understood, and is generally very imperfectly practised 
by the ordinary English cook. The products of our 

frying-pan are often greasy, and there- , ^. 

and the 
fore for many persons indigestible, the nitioiiale 

shallow form of the pan being unsuited ^ process, 
for the process of cooking at a high temperature in 
oil, that is, at a heat of about 350° to 390° Fahr., 
that of boiling water being 212''. This high tempe- 
rature produces results, which are equivalent indeed 
to quick roasting, when the article to be cooked is 
immersed in the nearly boiling fat Frying, as gene- 
rally conducted, is rather a combination of broiling 
and toasting or scorching ; and the use of the deep 
pan or bath of heated oil or dripping, which is 



Digitized by 



Google 



126 Food and Feeding. 

essential to the right performance of the process, 
and especially in order to prevent greasiness, is the 
exception, and not the rule in ordinary kitchens. A 
Practical ^^^ words of explanation are necessary 

directions. j^ relation to the temperature of the fat 
which forms the frying bath, a matter of importance 
to ensure satisfactory results. When a bath of melt- 
ing fat is placed on the fire and the temperature has 
risen to 212°, some bubbles come to the surface with 
a hissing sound ; these are due to a small portion of 
water, inherent in the solid dripping, especially if it 
has been clarified previously with hot water, so fre- 
quently necessary, which, being converted into steam, 
rise until all is got rid of. This is not the boiling 
of the fat, which is now tranquil, and when the 
temperature has advanced much higher, to something 
like 340°, a slight vapour is given off. If the fat is 
permitted to become much hotter, smoke appears, 
indicating a degree of heat to be avoided, and that 
the fat has reached what is called the boiling point, 
when it decomposes and spoils. Before this is reached, 
the heat should be tested by putting in a slip of 
bread, which if browned in a few seconds, a sufficient 
temperature has been attained, and the bath is ready 
for use. The above remarks apply equally to the 
temperature of any oil used for the same 
of high purpose. The principle on which suc- 

empera ur . ^^^^ depends is, that at the moment of 
contact with the almost boiling fat or oil, a thin film 
of every part of the surface of the fish or other object 



Digitized by 



Google 



Process of Frying. 127 

to be fried is coagulated, so that the juices with their 
flavours, etc., are at once locked up within, and nothing 
can escape. The bath should therefore contain 
quantity sufficient to permit the complete immersion 
of the portion to be fried, and also be hot enough 
to effect this result in an instant, after which, and 
during the short time requisite to cook the interior, 
the heat is often slightly lowered with advantage. 
The fish or other material employed emerges when 
done, with a surface to which a little oil adheres, 
but this will drain off owing to its extreme fluidity 
when hot, if left on a napkin slanting a minute or 
two before the fire — better still, on white blotting- 
paper; and thus it may be served absolutely free 
from grease. The film of egg often applied to the 
surface of an object to be fried, is in the same manner 
instantly coagulated and forms an impermeable case ; 
while the fine bread crumbs adhering to it take a bright 
yellow colour, being slightly charred or toasted by 
the high temperature they are exposed to. In order 
to be free from grease when served the Avoid 
bread or biscuit crumbs should be very fi^rcase ; 
fine, adhering by means of a very thin layer of egg 
previously applied by the brush. If the crumbs are 
coarse and the egg is used too abundantly, grease 
will adhere to the surface or be absorbed by it ; 
thus a thick indigestible case covers the fish, a con- 
dition in which, unhappily, it commonly appears 
at table, even in the better class of hotels in this 
country. 



Digitized by 



Google 



128 Food and Feeding. 

Excellent and fresh olive oil, which need not be so 
the value of perfect in tint and flavour as the choicest 
olive oU ; kinds reserved for the salad-bowl, is the 

best available form of fat for frying, and is sold at 
a moderate price by the gallon for this purpose at 
the best Italian warehouses. Nothing, perhaps, is 
f beef '^^tter than well-clarified beef dripping, 
fiat or ^ such as is produced, often abundantly, 

nppuig' jj^ vaosX. English kitchens ; but the time- 
honoured traditions of our perquisite system some- 
times enable an English cook to sell this for herself, 
at small price, to a little trader round the corner, 
while she buys, at her employer's cost, a quantity of 
pork lard for frying material, at double the price 
obtained for the dripping. Unfortunately, however, 
lard is the worst menstruum for the purpose, the 
most difficult to work in so as to free the matters 
fried in it from grease ; and we might be glad to 
buy back our own dripping from the aforesaid little 
trader, at a profit to him of cent per cent, if only 
the purchase could be diplomatically negotiated. 
But so sweet is acquisition by way of perquisite, 
that few of the present race of cooks appeared willing 
to part with this particular one for any consideration 
which can be offered. I am glad to learn, since the 
foregoing was written in an early edition, that a 
more honest system is coming into vogue. Well 
clarified dripping, consisting of the fat or suet about 
the kidney especially, with a small proportion of fat 
from cooked pork (not the lard of the shop), is said 



Digitized by 



Google 



The Omelette, 129 

by some of the first practitioners of the art to be the 
best menstruum to employ. 

There is one dish which may be mentioned here 
appropriately, of which English cooks xhe 
have not much practical knowledge; on^elette; 
very few can make a tolerable omelette: and thus 
one of the most delicious and nutritious products of 
culinary art, with the further merit that it can be 
more rapidly prepared than any other dish of equal 
value, especially to the traveller, must really at present 
be almost regarded as an exotic. The method of 
proceeding is one which it is almost impossible to 
describe in writing, and no cookery book instructions 
which I have ever seen convey a notion of the neces- 
sary manipulation in which the whole art consists — 
to the uninitiated. Competent instruction at first 
and some practice are undoubtedly required, in order 
to attain a mastery in producing an omelette ; but 
these given, there ought to be no difficulty in turning 
out an excellent specimen. The ability to do this 
may be so useful in the varied circumstances of 
travel, etc., that no young man destined for foreign 
service, or even who lives in chambers, the making 
should fail to acquire so desirable an pj^^y 
accomplishment It can only be done teamed, 
by learning it practically from an efficient teacher. 

I have an observation to make relative to the 
general treatment of flesh in cookery (butcher's meat, 
poultry, and game), which finds its place appro- 
priately here. It relates to one of the fundamental 

I 



Digitized by 



Google 



130 Food and Feeding. 

principles of the culinary art, and should be con- 
sidered by all who are interested in the subject 
before regarding questions of detail. I ask attention 
to it because I do not know that any writer has 
explained the origin of widely differing methods in 
the practice of culinary art, adopted in France and 
England respectively. These two distinct systems 

have been produced as the result of 
character- Circumstances, the force of which may 
English ^^ easily recognized, dominating the 

"*^ French treatment of flesh provisions particularly, 

on principles directly opposed to each 
other. One of these characterizes the best English 
cookery, while the other has been, and still is, to a 
large extent, the ruling principle of French cookery. 
Both are rational — each system, perhaps, the better 
of the two in its own place ; and only illogical 
products and examples of defective taste can arise 
in practical cookery by confounding the two, an 
error, however, which is far from uncommon. In 
spite of the admiration which it is impossible to 
withhold for the talent of the French cook, it is 
nevertheless in France that the confusion I speak of 
is chiefly to be met with. And it is only in our own 
country, I venture to affirm, that the principle or 
system in question is carried out to perfection. The 
The English English principle is, that our own meat 
*^^ ' and game shall be presented at table in 

the highest state of perfection attainable, so far as 
breeding, feeding, and keeping can accomplish it. 



Digitized by 



Google 



French and English Cookery. 131 

each animal, when served, to be characterized by 
its own proper flavour, which is on no account to 
be masked or disguised by others, which are adven- 
titious. Delicate additions tending to ^ 
heighten the natural flavour, or agree- within its 
ably subordinated to it, shall alone be 
admitted. It is a principle which can be successfully 
followed only where these meats exist in high per- 
fection : where meat is inferior or insipid, an opposite 
treatment is the better one. And I do not hesitate 
to claim for the intelligent English consumer, that 
it has long been essentially his aim to cultivate the 
best meat and game in the world, and to enjoy its 
intrinsic qualities for their own sake, unalloyed by 
any of those additions in the form of finely flavoured 
sauce, which are so valuable for improving materials 
which do not possess their own distinctive fine 
qualities and flavours; while his proximity to the 
seashore and numerous streams enables him to enjoy 
fish of all kinds absolutely fresh and in the finest 
condition. 

The opposite principle is that which has been 
developed in association with the pro- The French 
duction of meats and poultry which are ^^®*» 
naturally somewhat insipid. Since it has not been 
the custom to rear in France fine mature beef or 
mutton, as we understand those meats here, but 
rather to consume almost exclusively an immature 
product, veal, as well as poultry, much of which 
although the best of its kind, is naturally wanting 



Digitized by 



Google 



132 Food and Feeding. 

in sapid characters, these have become, and rightly 
so, the vehicles of various delicious adventitious 
flavours, for the purpose of displaying which the 
its value white meats are valued, rather than for 

and utility. ^heir inherent qualities. This character 
of veal is illustrated in a passage occurring in the 
first number of the famous Almanack des Gourmands^ 
which appeared in Paris at the commencement of the 
present century : — " Veal lends itself to so many 
metamorphoses that we may fairly term it 'the 
chameleon of cookery/ " * Precisely the same view 
is held by Brillat-Savarin, but in relation to poultry, 
when he says, " Poultry is for cookery what canvas is 
to the painter." t In such conditions, therefore, it is 
natural that the French cuisine should be essentially 
distinguished for its sauces, by which it adorns and 
transforms material in itself somewhat uninteresting 
or uninviting. 

The Englishman loves the flavour of three or four 
^ . years' old mutton (unhappily almost a 

of the two tradition now), mature beef, the wildest 
game, both winged and ground ; and he 
cares not how little of " sauce " is supplied — he 
demands only "gravy" — so that these are in fine 
condition, sufficiently, not over-kept, and simply 
cooked, for the most part carefully roasted. To 
lard fine full-flavoured tender mutton or venison is, 
for him, to desecrate them ; to lard or farce a grouse 

• Almanack des Gourmands^ p. 17. Paris : 1803. 
t " Physiologic du Goftt," p. 30. Paris : 1843. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Comparison of Methods. 133 

or partridge is the reverse of a compliment equally 
to the game, if mature, and to the guest, if a con- 
noisseur. A young and tender English partridge is 
not improved, I venture to submit, even by larding, 
although the reverse is true of quail 

The French chef treats the white meat, veal and 
domestic poultry, with so many ingeniously contrived 
sauces, as to render those two meats as good as six. 
So successful is the achievement, that he is too often 
tempted to extend his art to dark-fleshed game, and 
seeking to adorn it with new flavours, destroys the 
original savour and aroma, in which consists for us 
the value of the dish. 

During the last few years, however, I have been 
happy to observe signs of a change in French 
the practice of the best French cooks appreciation, 
in this respect, as well as sometimes to find meats 
of better and more mature kind in Paris than 
formerly. One of the best illustrations of the value 
of the principle I have above referred to as that of 
old English cookery, I met with a few years ago, 
served to myself and a friend, in an excellent and 
well-known restaurant very near the Place de TOp^ra. 
It was brought to me as a novelty, and ^ happy 
the method of realizing the idea I con- iUustration. 
cede to be so, and in its way perfect in execution. 
It consisted of a very fine wild duck, simply but 
lightly and delicately roasted, and served without 
an atom of sauce. The maitre cThdtel having placed 
the bird before us on a dish heated by a spirit lamp 



Digitized by 



Google 



134 Food and Feeding. 

below, cut three long handsome slices on each side 
of the breast-bone, beautifully red although perfectly 
cooked, and full of natural juice, removing thus, in 
fact, all that is prime and really worth eating. Leaving 
these in the hot dish and replacing the cover, he 
placed on the table before us a powerful nickel- 
silvered press, the size of a tea-urn or samovar, put 
the whole of the remains of the bird into it, and with 
a few turns of the lever, applied the screw so as to 
express when the tap was turned a sufficient quantity 
of hot, rich, red juice to serve as our only, and indeed 

g^ . most exquisite sauce. The only admis- 

additions sible additions would be the scent of 

possi e. ^ fresh lemon and a few drops of its 

juice with a grain or two of Nepaul pepper; or a 
little well-made Bigarade sauce (see my receipt at 
p. 154). 

The pinions, legs and back, indeed all but the 
sliced breast, had been thus compelled to yield all 
their fluids, in the form of about a coffee cupful of 
what might be called the very essence of the bird. 
Such treatment precisely accords with our own view 
of what is the best, and was most admirably realized. 
Let us continue to cultivate the finest meats and 
game, presenting them when in the most perfect 
condition for the table, and serve simply, or with 
only such subordinate adjuncts as tend to heighten, 
not to obscure, the natural character of the original. 
We shall then have no cause to be ashamed of the 
course in which they appear at an English table. 



Digitized by 



Google 



IVild Duck in Perfection, 135 

But I freely concede that in making the best of 
second-rate and insipid morsels, we have still a good 
deal to learn, on the score of sauces, garnish, and 
serving, from the great school of culinary art in 
France, 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER VII. 

Soups— Not sufficiently esteemed — Better understood in France 
— Pot-au-feu — The " stock-pot ^ — Bouillon — ConsomnU— 
Endless varieties produced from these — Three distinct 
classes of soup — i. The clear : of meat, fowl, and game ; 
and vegetables or maigre — 7., The thick or puries : of the 
same — Various illustrations of these — 3. More substantial 
soups : turtle, ox-tail, and other examples — Bouillabaisse — 
Soups, gra^ and maigre — Receipts for vegetable soup — 
Practical hints in making the above. 

I THINK it may be said that soups, whether clear 

(that is, prepared from the juices of 

neglected meat and vegetables only) or thick (that 

y many , .^^ purees of animal or vegetable matters), 

are far too lightly esteemed by most classes in 

England, while they are almost unknown to the 

working man. For the latter they might furnish an 

important cheap and savoury dish ; by the former 

they are too often regarded as the mere prelude to 

a meal, to be swallowed hastily, or disregarded 

altogether as mostly unworthy of atten- 

formofdiet tion. The great variety of vegetable 

pur^esy which can be easily made and 

blended with light animal broths, admits of daily 



Digitized by 



Google 



Soup Making. 137 

change in the matter of soup to a remarkable extent, 
and affords scope for taste in the selection and com- 
bination of flavours. The use of fresh vegetables in 
abundance — such as carrots, turnips, parsnips, arti- 
chokes, celery, cabbage, sorrel, leeks, and onions — 
renders such soups wholesome and appetizing. The 
supply of garden produce ought in this utilizing 
country to be singularly plentiful ; and, ^f^ 
owing to the unrivalled means of trans- tageously. 
port, all common vegetables ought to be obtained 
fresh in every part of London. The These should 
contrary, however, is unhappily the fact ^ ^^®^ 
It is a matter of extreme regret that vegetables, 
dried and compressed after a modern method, should 
be so much used as they are for soup by hotel- 
keepers and other caterers for the public. Un- 
questionably useful as these dried products are on 
board ship, and to travellers camping out, to employ 
them at home, when fresh can be had, is the result 
of sheer indolence or of gross ignorance. All the 
finest qualities of scent and flavour, with some of the 
fresh juices, are lost in the drying process; and 
the infusions of preserved vegetables no more re- 
semble a freshly made odoriferous soup, than a cup 
of that thick brown, odourless, insipid mixture, con- 
sisting of some bottled "essence" dissolved in hot 
water, and now supplied as coffee at most railway 
stations and hotels in this country, resembles the 
recently made infusion of the freshly roasted berry. 
It says little for the taste of our countrymen that 



Digitized by 



Google 



138 Food and Feeding. 

such imperfect imitations are so generally tolerated 
without complaint. 

How different is the result of intelligent cookery, 
as we find it exemplified in the simple 
the national national soup of France. Here the 
"^^ * appetizing odours of fresh meat and 

vegetables are discerned with pleasure, the moment 
a poUaU'feu enters the room. Relative to this dish 
so much has of late appeared in public prints, failing 
to explain what is understood in France by it, that 
I think an accurate description of what it really is 
may prove acceptable here. 

Tht pot-aU'feu is a composite dish which produces, 
« Pot-au- ^^s^> ^ simple, but not strong, beef broth 
^®"" {bouillon), well flavoured by fresh vege- 

tables ; secondly, a somewhat over-cooked and ex- 
hausted piece of beef {bauilli), which is served after 
the soup ; and, lastly, the vegetables themselves. 

This is a different thing from the common " stock- 
pot " of the French peasant, so frequently 
the "stock- termed a pot-au-feu^ and confounded 
^ ' with it The primary object of a " stock- 

pot" is to make a decoction or basis for soup — of 
animal food, if possible — ^and every morsel of flesh, 
poultry, trimmings from joints, bones well bruised, 
etc, which are available for the purpose, are reserved 
for it To the pot of the peasant, who wastes 
nothing whatever, all things are welcome ; and every 
atom of nutritive material — solid or liquid — ^goes into 
it, to which are always added herbs and vegetables, 



Digitized by 



Google 



The Pot-aU'Feu. 139 

together with the liquor in which any of the latter 

may chance to have been boiled. But sometimes 

it is a pot maigrey no meat of any kind "gras,*' or 

having been procurable ; and very good "maigre." 

vegetable soups, moreover, are educible therefrom, 

of which more hereafter. Then again, besides, or 

instead of the slices of bread which are usually put 

into the broth when served, the good wife now and 

then cleans a fresh cabbage, boils it in water, as 

much as possible of which she removes by pressure 

in a cloth, then puts the cabbage for a few minutes 

into her pot, and finally serves it as a welcome 

addition to, the dish. But in none of these forms can 

the \xyi^ pot-au^feu be recognized ; and no Frenchman 

who has the least acquaintance with the national 

cookery will allow it to rank as one. 

The pot-au-feu has for its object, as already stated, 

not only the making of a well-flavoured « ^ , ^ 
^ ** Products of 

^^^ broth, but the cooking of a portion the**pot- 

of the beef to be eaten separately after, 

either cold of hot, according to taste, together with the 

vegetables necessarily associated with it. Formerly, 

this houilli always appeared at an ordinary French 

table immediately after the bouillon; but although 

still retaining some nutritious elements, it is not 

much esteemed, certainly by those who can afford 

better food, and it has gradually disappeared during 

the last few years. So the pot-au-feu has come to 

signify at ordinary tables only a soup, and it may 

appear at the best tables in that capacity; still, 



Digitized by 



Google 



140 Food and Feeding. 

strictly as a beef broth, but of the most perfect 
kind, well seasoned and flavoured by herbs and 
vegetables. The well-known soups so admirably 
served at a good Paris restaurant as paysanne and 
croute-au-pot respectively, are but slight modifications 
of the original pot-au-feu. 

To return to the family stock-pot This has, on 
The ^^® Continent, especially in families of 

stock-pot ^jjg middle class, another use beside that 
of preparing a basis for soup. Thus when a boiled 
fowl is required, it is a common practice to conduct 
the process in the liquor of the stock-pot Any 
nutritive matter, however small, which might have 
been lost in the water used in ordinary boiling, is 
saved for the soup, while a fowl boiled in stock is 
certainly preferable when it comes to table, to one 
which has been boiled in water. And so with many 
other articles ; for example, a small and well cleaned 
ham may be cooked — and this is an affair of several 
hours — in a capacious stock-pot, with advantage 
equally to the soup and the ham, provided, of course, 
that the latter has previously been soaked some 
hours to remove superfluous salt; nor should any 
salt be put into the stock-pot itself when required 
for this operation. 

But besides the bouillon of th^ pot-au-feu there is 
** Grand ^^^ grand bouillon also, a distinct and 

bouillon." elementary product of French cookery. 
This is a decoction, stronger than the preceding, of 
the flesh of beef and veal, together with a portion 



Digitized by 



Google 



Bouillon and Consommd. 141 

of supplementary bone and sinew, all fresh and 
uncooked, in order to add gelatine; and this is 
combined also with vegetables. Lastly, «« con- 
there is the consomm^, which is a decoc- somm^." 
tion of beef, veal, and fowl, the two latter partially 
roasted for the purpose of heightening flavour ; and 
it is made, not with water, but with bouillon — GouflK 
orders the grand bouillon just described — and with a 
few more vegetables. This is, therefore, the highest 
form of soup from beef, veal, poultry, and vegetables 
which can be produced (see Appendix, "Consommd "). 

Now, as the mode of making pot-au-feu is an 
important initial step in the art of soup-making, I 
shall place in an appendix at the end of this volume, 
a carefully made epitome of the very complete in- 
structions given by Gouffd The right management 
is with him a matter of the highest importance ; and, 
simple as the dish is, he devotes several pages to 
the task of illustrating the elementary principles of 
cookery which are involved in the process. 

It is not at all surprising that many persons should 
be somewhat bewildered by the almost soup nomcn- 
endless variety of appellation under ^lature; 
which the single article of soup is presented at table. 
It has been estimated that the titles varieties 
which denote these numerous varieties endless, 
number altogether not less perhaps than five hundred. 
And proceeding on the principle on which these are 
produced, there appears to be no reason why even 
the present list should not be doubled in length. In 



Digitized by 



Google 



142 Food and Feeding. 

reality, the number of species is very limited; but 
species very the slightest addition to a soup having 
limited, J3ggjj ijgij sufficient to confer upon it 

a distinctive name, the idea of complexity and 
number has been unnecessarily fostered. Regarded 
analytically, all soups may be considered as belonging 
to three chief classes — the clear ; the thick, or puries ; 
and a more substantial form, in which the soup 
approximates somewhat to that of a stew, containing 
solid matter in considerable quantity. In each of 
these classes there are four or five species, from 
which all varieties are produced by slight additions 
and combinations of flavour. 

First class, the clear soups, viz. — 

1. A clear decoction (weak, or "broth ;" strong, or 

consommS) of meat : of beef, veal, some- 
to iTvit ' 

times mutton; and of pork in the form 

of ham or baCon. 

2. A clear decoction of fowl. 

3. A clear decoction of game. 

4. A clear soup made from various kinds of turtle, 

but always garnished with portions of turtle 
itself. 

5. A clear decoction of vegetables only, as the 

basis of a soupe maigre. 

Any of these may be used as made at first hand ; 

but great variety may be obtained by 

varieties making some slight addition, such as 

are ma e. ^.^j^ ^^ well-known dried Italian pastes 

in numerous forms, also specially made paste {nouilles 



Digitized by 



Google 



Clear Soups and Purees. 143 

and quenelles) ; or with freshly made custard, cut 
into diamonds, circles, etc., in various 
colours ; cut fresh vegetables, in rounds, 
in squares, in long strips, fresh, or lightly fried before 
adding them ; with crusts of bread, with an egg, etc. ; 
each single addition denoted by a distinctive appella- 
tion, which will suggest itself in each example named 
above, to any one who has the least acquaintance 
with cookery. 

Second class, the thick soups, or purees. — The 
consomm^ of beef, or of veal, beef, and Second 
fowl mixed, or of game, may be thickened «« Purees." 
by addition of a flesh, fowl, and game Animal. 
pur^e respectively ; white soups, commencing with a 
consomm^ oi veal and poultry, thickened with ^.purie 
of the white meat of fowl, with a portion of cream 
or milk added; and brown puries following, from 
consomm^ of beef and veal, and of game. 

The same consomtn^^ or the weaker broth, furnish 
bases for vegetable purees in like manner. Vegetable 
either white or coloured. Many of these, P"^^®«' 
like the others, have their distinctive names; e,g, 
pur^e of carrot as Cr^cy, of potatoes as Parmentier, 
of fresh green peas as St Germain, of red haricots 
as Cond^, of lentils as Conti, or adding vegetables 
prepared as for a julienne^ it becomes Faubonne ; 
while a purie of Jerusalem artichokes, curiously 
enough, and by virtue of a bad pun, is called 
Palestine. The last named should, of course, have a 
basis of fowl or veal broth, and added milk or cream. 



Digitized by 



Google 



144 Food and Feeding. 

And the same stock, blended with a well-prepared 
purie of pearl barley, will furnish a very agreeable 
critne (Forge, Many soups in ordinary use assume 
a pleasant change, if a small quantity of tapioca is 
incorporated by long and gentle simmering, until 
almost dissolved, from the fulness and softness thus 
communicated to the original. 

Thirdly, a class of more substantial soups, con- 
taining a considerable amount of solid matter; 
examples of these may be named as follows : — 

Mock-turtle soup ; containing large portions of the 
calfs head, garnished with balls of seasoning, the 
liquid portion being thick, not clear. 

Ox-tail; containing a considerable amount of 
meat in a more or less clear broth or consommi. 

The well-known "giblct soup" and the "cock-a- 
ieekie" of North Britain are examples of poultry 
thus treated ; the latter, doubtless designed originally 
to present the patriarch of the poultry yard in an 
eatable form. Another Scotch soup, "hotch-potch," 
like an Italian ** minestre," or " minestrone," may con- 
tain almost a meal of fragrant combinations of ftesh, 
vegetables, and herbs in variety. Another to be 
named here is a thick mulligatawny soup, which is, 
in fact, a diluted curry, of which, by the way, there 
is now a clear variety. 

An important group of the thick soups have their 

origin in a pur^e and decoction of fish, 

of various kinds, as well as of so-called 

shell-fish, which of course are not fish at all, but 



Digitized by 



Google 



Fish Soup and Turtle. 145 

animals of other and totally distinct species. The 

former have a basis of liquor obtained by stewing 

the heads, bones, fins, and other cuttings from inferior 

parts of the fish, garnished with fillets from the 

choicest parts, and also with oysters, mussels, etc. 

The latter kind, from "shell-fish," are oyster soups, 

besides purees of prawns, crayfish, etc., 

and known as bisques ; often very 

finished products of the culinary art. 

The thick turtle soup is also more or less a/«r/^, 

to begin with, to a certain extent, but ,^. , 

Thick turtle, 
its distinctive character is derived from 

its garnish, consisting as it does of the choicest parts 

of the animal. 

The edible turtles belong to the class of reptiles, 
and there are varieties, large and small, all highly 
esteemed as food in various parts of the world. 

Real turtle, clear, is made either in part or wholly 
from the live animal ; a large proportion is prepared 
from the imported dried flesh ; in either case the 
stock is almost invariably made from veal and 
beef.* 

* A rather keen but amusing controversy took place in conse- 
quence of my having stated in a paper read at the Fisheries 
Exhibition in 1883 that turtle soup when "a/ its best^ was 
composed of a stock made from the conger eel, the turtle 
furnishing the garnish and the name. The turtle-soup makers 
rushed into print, especially some well-known artists at the East 
End of London, who used language which was more remarkable 
for force than for elegance. Never was there a more striking 
illustration of the proverb, " gut s^ excuse s^accuse.^* No accusa- 
tion had been brought against any turtle-soup maker : I had 

K 



Digitized by 



Google 



146 Food and Feeding. 

Finally, I must not omit some mention of that 
"Bouilla- delicious dish, bouillabaisse^ eaten in per- 
baisse." fection at Marseilles, as among the most 

agreeable products of French cuisine in this direction. 
Thackeray's well-known rhymes do not exaggerate 
Thackeray's ^^s good qualities, and enumerate its 
description. component elements almost with suffi- 
cient accuracy to direct the cook.* See chapter ix. 
on the subject of fish as food, for remarks on its 
selection and preparation for receipts or fish soups 
and stew, including directions for preparing a Mar- 
sellaise bouillabaisse. 

Then there is an important distinction, referred 
D' f ti *^ above, recognized chiefly on the 

in soups for Continent, and related to the demands 
'*fastine '' 

of religious observance, between soups 

which have meat for their basis {poiage gras\ and 

those which have fish, or exclusively vegetable basis 

{potage maigre) ; into the latter class also, eggs are 

admitted. All these take rank of course among the 

merely expressed the opinion given above ; one which I still 
think is correct. Much less had I anywhere affirmed that the 
artists above alluded to had ever made turtle soup " at its best ! " 

♦ " This Bouillabaisse a noble dish is — 

A sort of soup, or broth, or brew, 

Or hotch-potch of all sorts of fishes 

That Greenwich never could outdo : 
Green herbs, red peppers, mussels, saffem. 

Soles, onions, garlic, roach and dace ; 
All these you eat at Jerri's tavern 
In that one dish of Bouillabaisse." 

The Ballads, 



Digitized by 



Google 



Vegetable Soups. 147 

classes named; but they are referred to separately 
here in order to draw attention to a fact not generally 
recognized in this country, that tolerably good soups 
may be made without employing meat 

Vegetable soups, both clear and thickened, may be 
made extremely palatable; the former vegetable 
being agreeable and wholesome, espe- »o"Ps- 
daily in the warm season when fresh vegetable 
growth is abundant, and full of juice and fragrance. 
And the latter, or thick soup, may be made nutritious 
also, as already shown, since they contain a consider- 
able quantity of barley, peas, beans, haricots, Indian 
corn, rice, etc. 

The following is a good receipt for a clear, purely 
vegetable stock : — 

Slice two carrots, two turnips, a head of celery, 
two onions ; put into a frying-pan with Qe^r vege- 
a few sweet herbs and half a pound of **^^® ^^'^P* 
butter. Fry until well browned, then put them with 
three or four cloves, some salt and black pepper, 
into six pints of cold water in a saucepan ; bring to 
the boil and gently simmer for two or three hours, 
reducing to four pints, not less ; strain off into a 
vessel, letting it stand for use. When required, pour 
off the clear liquor, leaving the deposit, and you will 
have a fair vegetable stock. If it is to be used 
as a clear vegetable soup, heat, adding at the close 
two tablespoonfuls of "cornflour" previously mixed 
smooth in some of the liquor, and letting the whole 
boil ; if any scum arises remove it. The cornflour 



Digitized by 



Google 



148 Food and Feeding. 

gives to the decoction an agreeable body. Or, five 
or six ounces of tapioca may be added at the outset, 
which will thicken without interfering with the trans- 
parency of the decoction. The soup may be garnished 
with vegetables freshly cooked for the purpose, in 
slices or other forms (see Gouffd's receipt in the 
Appendix). 

To convert this into a meat consommi add after 
boiling, and just before serving, two full 
make a teaspoonfuls of the Liebig Company's 

Extract of Meat. 

Another mode of giving body when a soup maigre 
A gelatine ^^ "^^ required, is to make a decoction of 
^o^y- beef-bones without meat, which have 

been thoroughly broken and allowed to simmer 
gently at least six hours ; then cooled, and skimmed 
from fat. The result, which is a strong jelly, can 
be warmed, strained clear through flannel, and used 
instead of water with which to make the vegetable 
soup as above directed ; it adds substance and quality, 
but of animal matter in place of the cornflour employed 
for the preceding. 

Thickened vegetable soups may be made with 
Vegetable these stocks, or with a weak meat stock, 
puree. by rubbing in smooth, well-made purees 

of almost any vegetable matter. Those most com- 
monly used are from green peas, potato, spinach, 
carrot, turnip, artichoke, tomato, salsify, etc., or from 
dried vegetable products, as split peas, lentils, hari- 
cots, rice, arrowroot, semolina, etc. A potato pur^e^ 



Digitized by 



Google 



Importance of Consommd. 149 

garnished with well-boiled leeks cut in sections, is 
a very palatable dish, and worthy of the esteem it 
has long enjoyed among our Dutch and Flemish 
neighbours. 

I may conclude this brief sketch of soups by 
observing that the ability to make a The title of 
good, fragrant, and clear consommi, yet Q^t^^dojie^ 

fine in colour with a certain softness and to one who 

« cannot make 

smoothness of body — and nothmg is a^ood 

easier, granted a moderate intelligence ^®°^®™™®- 
and the power of executing simple details with care 
— affords the key to almost all. The preparation of 
vegetables and the making of puries are merely 
mechanical processes, easily attained. The judg- 
ment necessary to add and combine spices, essences, 
and other sources of flavour, for soups, sauces, and 
sweet entremets^ is the one element which when 
possessed, in addition to the character of an attentive, 
dexterous, and painstaking workman, essential to 
success in every profession, constitutes a finished 
cook, and denotes his or her rank. And thus it is 
that the department of sauces especially gives oppor- 
tunity to develop and illustrate these qualities ; and 
here it is that the artist's skill is most clearly 
manifested. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER VIII. 

Sauces — The two chief foundation sauces, the brown or 
Espagnole, the white or Velouti — Their derivatives — 
English melted butter — Maitre (THoiel-^Ravigoite, etc. — 
Author's receipt for Bigarade sauce — Garnishes — ^Their 
variety and use in supplementing dishes — Cookery of vege- 
tables <* VAnglaise and a la Franqaise — The tomato — 
Macaroni — Best modes for preparing for the table — Rice : 
various ways of preparing — ^The value of mincing in pre- 
paring flesh for food — Cold meats^ the service of— Aspic 
jelly — Salads, in variety. 

I SHALL commence with a brief sketch of the system 

on which the numerous list of sauces, 
Saqccs* 

which are offered for our ser\'ice in 

cookery, is constructed. This will at all events give 
the tyro an idea of order and arrangement which 
presides over the practical management of the 
various sauces used in hot dishes of meat, game, 
and poultry. But the reader who desires to become 
thoroughly acquainted with the principles and 
practice of sauce-making, a subject too recondite 
to be dealt with at length here, should consult a first- 
rate French authority, as unquestionably the highest 
on this subject* 
* I can scarcely recommend a better than the classical work 



Digitized by 



Google 



Two Foundation Sauces. 151 

Sauces are numerous, although less so than are 

soups, for each must have a real and distinct quality, 

to which it owes its existence, and is required to 

impart to some article of food for which additional 

flavour is desired. It may be said that there are but 

two chief foundation sauces, or " mother- Onlv two 

sauces," as the French term them, a tion sauces: 

brown sauce termed Espagnole, and a nofe^Mid 

white one named VelouU, or Allemande. " Xf^PH*^'" 

' or "AUe- 

Bechamel is reckoned as a " sauce mire " mande." 
also by some, but it is merely a variety of Veloutd 
with an addition of cream, making the sauce richer ; 
while Allemande differs chiefly by the addition of 

of Gouff(6 before referred to. But it may,'perhaps, be a little out 
of date in some details, although the leading principles must 
remain unchanged, and it is still an admirable guide to practice. 
For the purposes of the best English kitchens, " La Cuisine 
d'Aujourd'hui," by Urbain Dubois, E. Dentu, Paris, 1889, 
pp. 760, is a storehouse of trustworthy information, and it is 
well illustrated. Price 12 francs. But for a modern encyclo- 
paedic work on the subject, including la haute cuisine^ the 
following, by Dubois and Bernard conjointly, is beyond question 
the most complete : — 

" Cuisine classique : Etudes raisonndes et demonstratives de 
I'Ecole Franqaise ; " deux grands volumes, ^^ planches gravees ; 
Dubois et Bernard. 14 Edition. E. Dentu, Paris. Prix 
40 francs. 

Since the last edition of this work appeared, a useful epitome 
of the subject has been made in a small and handy volume 
which should be in the hands of any mistress who desires to 
understand it, and is an excellent guide for the cook who has 
not been practically or systematically taught. It is entitled, *' A 
Book of Sauces," by Mrs. Beaty Pownall. Chapman & Hall : 
1896. 



Digitized by 



Google 



152 Food and Feeding. 

yolks of eggs and a little butter. These have 
been well called the Adam and Eve of cookery, 
whence most others have sprung * For each of these 
there is a leason (liason\ or thickening, in order to 
bind the elements together and give body to the 
sauce, known now more commonly as brown and 
White and white raux respectively. And here again 
brown roux. one marks the presence of that potent 
quality before referred to, as the taste of the fire. 
For Espagnole demands not only a beef-stock but a 
proportion of smoked ham to insure the flavour in 
question ; and its brown thickening is made by slowly 
heating flour until it is partially carbonized, and 
therefore browned by the fire being slowly heated, 
together with fine clarified butter, which becomes 
Flavour of nut-brown in the process, and both im- 
the fire. pg^,^ ^ fine roasting flavour to the same. 

But the slightest burning of the butter is fatal, 
and is avoided only by making the process of heat- 
ing a slow one, and carefully stirring the mixture 
in an enamelled saucepan constantly over a small 
gas ring — at any rate, not over a hot cinder 
fire. 

* It appears to me quite unnecessary to recognize more than 
one brown ** foundation sauce," viz. the Espagnole^ in which 
the flavour of smoked ham is a necessary ingredient. A so- 
called " brown sauce '* without it is only an ordinary glaze, a 
reduced consommi thickened with brown roux, and ranks only 
as a secondary variety of the above. The adoption of but one 
brown and one white leading foundation sauce will be appre- 
ciated by all practical cooks. 



Digitized by 



Google 



White and Brown Roux. 153 

' A white roux is made in the same manner, but 
with the finest flour unbaked, only well . 

dried, and fresh butter merely clarified, 
mixed by stirring slowly over a still less degree of 
heat, and never permitting either the flour or butter 
to take colour. The brown and white rotix will keep 
a few days in a cool place for daily use as required. 

This is all the space I can afford to this subject. 
It is an important elementary process, as the pot-au^ 
feu is to soup making, and forms a key to the com- 
position of many sauces. 

English melted butter is regarded as the one sauce 
of our country, and if well and carefully cv, r h 
made, is a very acceptable and whole- melted 
some vehicle for various additions, both " *^* 
savoury arid sweet as required ; while the ingredients 
are always at hand, and it can be quickly pro- 
duced when required. 

Other sauces, which are distinct varieties of the 
Velouti, are, for example, Mattre SHStel^ « Maitre 
with the addition of a little finely d'Hdtel,*' etc. 
chopped parsley and a little lemon juice ; Ravigotte 
the same, with a little chervil and tarragon besides, 
etc. For Mayonnaise^ Remoulade^ and other forms of 
olive oil and egg mixture as sauce, see pp. 174, 175. 

There is one sauce especially appropriate for wild 
duck, and scarcely less so to well-cured Bigarade 
ham, either hot or cold, for which I have sauce, 
never yet met with what appears to me to be an 
adequate receipt. I refer to that known as Bigarade ; 



Digitized by 



Google 



154 Food and Feeding. 

I will, therefore, give my own here. The following 
Author's "^^y ^^ regarded as sufficient for ten or 

receipt twelve persons to accompany three or 

four lightly roasted wild ducks, of which, of course, 
the breast slices are the only portions served. Put 
about one-third of a pint of well -reduced good brown 
sauce, which will form indeed a glaze, into a small 
saucepan for melting near the corner of the fire. 
Have prepared three Seville oranges, thus — remove 
the zest of two by scraping or with a bread-grater ; 
add it, together with their pulp and juice passed 
through a sieve so that no pith or pips are present, 
to the glaze, and slowly bring to the boiling point, 
stirring well, and set aside, keeping it hot Add a 
pinch of Nepaul pepper, with a small teaspoonful of 
castor sugar. Then pare very thinly the peel of the 
third orange, so as to remove with it no pith, in 
separate portions, which are to be cut into fine long 
strips like those used for julienne soup, but very 
much smaller. Put them into cold water in a very 
small saucepan and let them boil, removing it to 
stand aside, keeping hot for a few minutes. When 
ready to serve, pour off the liquid from the strips and 
add them to the sauce in the first saucepan, stirring 
welt at the corner of the fire, adding a small wine- 
glass of dry Curagoa at the very last, and send up, 
as well as the birds, very hot If necessary, it may 
be passed through a tammy, but if properly made, 
it will not be so. It should be added that the 
Seville orange cannot be obtained in this country 



Digitized by 



Google 



Bigarade Sauce. Garnitures. 155 

before the first week of February, and as wild duck 
is often quite in season six or eight weeks before 
that time, the best flavoured oranges obtainable must 
be substituted for the former, but for a true bigarade 
the Seville is essential. 

After sauces come garnitures. Respecting these 
a few hints may be given, for agreeable Garnitures 
and even important additions may be >o^*"ety. 
made to most small dishes of animal food under this 
title of "garnish." Whether it be a small filet y 
braised or roasted, or a portion thereof broiled ; a 
fricandeauy or the choice end of a neck of mutton 
made square and compact by shortening the bones ; 
or a small loin, or a dish of trimmed neck cutlets, or 
a choice portion of broiled rump-steak ; a tender ox 
tongue, a couple of sweetbreads, poultry, pigeon, or 
what not — the garnish should be a matter of 
consideration. Whether the dish be carved on 
the family table, as it often may be when its head 
is interested in the cuisine, or whether it is handed 
in the presence of guests, the quality and the 
appearance of the dish greatly depend on the 
garnish. According to the meat may be added, with 
a view both to taste and appearance, some of the 
following— /«r/<?j of sorrel, spinach, chicory, and 
other greens, of turnips, and of potatoes plain, in 
shapes or in croquettes ; cut carrots, peas, beans, 
endive, sprouts, and other green vegetables ; onions 
(see p. 122), small or Spanish, stewed; cucumbers, 
tomatoes, macaroni in all forms ; sometimes a few 



Digitized by 



Google 



156 Food and Feeding. 

sultanas boiled, mushrooms, olives, truffles. In the 
same way chestnuts are admirable, whole, boiled, or 
roasted, and as a purie freely served, especially in 
winter, when vegetables are scarce ; serving also as 
farce for fowls and turkeys. While such vegetables 
as green peas, French and young broad 
served as beans, celery and celeriac, asparagus, 
*entreme . geakale, cauliflower, spinach, artichokes, 
salsify, vegetable marrows, etc., are worth procuring 
in their best and freshest condition, to prepare with 
especial care as separate dishes.* 

And here, again, the distinctive principles, already 
French and referred to, of French and English cuisine, 
teSSaent of ^^^ illustrated in relation to the cooking 
vegetables; of vegetables; and again, let me add, 
not always to the disadvantage of our own system. 

* A hint about boiling asparagus is worthy of mention, since 
the proper method is rarely followed by English cooks. 

Asparagus of the stouter sort, always when of the "giant" 
variety, should be cut of exactly equal lengths, and boiled 
standing ends upward in a deep saucepan. Nearly two inches 
of the heads should be out of the water — the steam sufficing to 
cook them, as they form the tenderest part of the plant ; while 
the hard stalky part is rendered soft and succulent by the longer 
boiling which this plan permits. Instead of the orthodox 
twenty minutes allotted to average asparagus lying horizontally, 
in the English manner, which half cooks the stalk, and over- 
cooks the head, diminishing its flavour and consistence, a period 
of thirty to fifty minutes, on the plan recommended, will render 
fully a third more of the stalk delicious, while the head will be 
properly cooked by the steam alone. One reason why it is not 
uncommon to hear the best produce of the fields of Argenteuil 
insufficiently appreciated here, and our own asparagus preferred, 
is, that the former is rarely sufficiently cooked at English tables. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Cooking of Vegetables. 157 

I find it the more necessary to call attention to this 
subject, as much has of late been said, which may 
lead many to believe that French usage is invariably 
right, and English usage invariably wrong. Very 
far from the truth, I humbly submit, is such an 
allegation as this, even in regard of our treatment 
of vegetables. No doubt we are too often guilty of 
carelessness and inattention to the condition in which 
vegetables are presented, in the service of our tables, 
but our principle is in the main correct, and only 
wants to be pursued with intelligence. When vege- 
tables are really good, well grown, and fresh, no 
good judge desires that their natural qualities of 
flavour, odour, and consistence, or even colour, should 
be destroyed by the addition of other materials, and 
of foreign flavours. Let us take two, in illustration 
of these remarks, green peas and the tomato. 

Garden peas, /^///j/^w, when young, quickly grown, 
and, above all things, freshly gathered, 
have a delicious characteristic flavour of peas, for 
their own, are rather sweet, and almost ®^^*"P ®' 
crisp when eaten ; and they maintain these attributes 
unimpaired, if simply boiled in salt and water. Such 
should be eaten d. VAnglaise^ the use of the term 
itself being a tacit admission on the part of the French 
chef, that the simple cooking advocated here, and 
practised in this country is, in this instance, justifiable. 
All that is produced under this name is a dish of 
peas, cooked as described, served with a pat of fresh 
butter, and some salt, accompanied by the capital 



Digitized by 



Google 



158 Food and Feeding. 

little pepper-mill, which is natural to a French table, 
and almost unknown here.* A morsel of the butter 
is stirred into the hot peas, a little black pepper, 
full of fragrance, freshly ground over them, and a 
pinch of salt, according to taste, and the whole 
"Haricots stirred. The same process is equally 
^rts,** and ^^ applicable to French beans, and also to 
^^ that excellent mixture of French beans 

and flageolets^ so well-known as haricots panack^Sf 
so rarely served in this country. All these vegetables, 
when in excellent condition, are doubtless served at 
their best d VAnglaise^ not only in relation to the 
palate, but also in view of the average digestion. 

To return to our petits pots as the type. When 
To treat peas green peas are a little hard, old, and 
yoi^g Md tough, or a little coarse in flavour, and 
tender. without sweetness, then it is that the 

French cook treats them with advantage. For such 
peas as these, when no others are to be had — and it 
must be confessed that inferior peas are far too com- 
monly met with — by all means let them be served 
d la Frangatse, This is stewing gently in a little 
water, a good proportion of butter, with sliced onion 
and salt, stirring in a little flour, and a small quantity 
of sugar. Some, exceptionally, add a little cream, 
and yolk of egg. Another excellent French method, 

* It was so when I first wrote, but has now for some time 
been growing in favour here, and may be seen at many tables 
and for sale in many shops. At the time referred to I could 
not have found a table pepper-mill in London, and obtained my 
own in Paris. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Cooking of Vegetables. 159 

^ la PaysannCy is to add first butter as before, salt 
and onion ; and then stew slowly in a fair quantity 
of stock, with lettuces, finely sliced, some sugar, and 
a shred or two of parsley, if desired. Almost any 
peas may be rendered tender and appetizing if thus 
treated. 

Again, haricots verts sautis au beurre^ is a favourite 
mode of cooking them ; but no super- prenchbeans 
fluous butter should appear when they "sautfes." 
are served ; the quantity allowed in which to toss 
them for a few minutes on a brisk fire, after boiling, 
should amount to no more, according to the rule, 
than a tenth part by weight of that of the vegetables 
themselves when dry.* 

But who does riot know that it is common enough, 
both in town and province throughout France, to be 
supplied not only with French beans, but other vege- 
tables, saturated with butter, rendering them for most 
English stomachs, at all events, hazardous, and to 
some tastes repulsive. 

The natural inference from all this is, that cer- 
tain French methods are desirable, and their success 
is remarkable, when — as we have already seen in 

* Some persons who have not studied practical cookery may 
not quite understand the French term sauter^ or the correspond- 
ing English term, " toss." It means, to fry lightly or partially 
in butter, using a shallow pan, and, moving the material to be 
fried, or, rather, " tossed," so as to avoid the production of a 
temperature high enough to brown the surface — a condition 
which is intended to be produced by frying proper, as before ex- 
plained (p. 125) to take place, by immersing the material in 
heated oil. 



Digitized by 



Google 



i6o Food and Feeding. 

relation to both meats and vegetables— the materials 

are inferior ; but the English method is the simplest 

and best, when the materials are — as they always 

should, when practicable, be — the best of their kind. 

And now, briefly, for the tomato. In almost any 

_ condition, simple cookery alone is ad- 

The tomato. 

missible for it Doubtless, if ripe and 

fresh, it is excellent when eaten raw ; but to have it 
at its very best, the tomato should be dipped, for 
thirty seconds at most, into boiling water. On re- 
moving it, the skin, which could previously be de- 
tached only with difficulty, peels off with the greatest 
ease. The juicy, fruity qualities are revealed by this 
process ; and it may be eaten alone or with any 
meat; and for a salad it should invariably be thus 
prepared. If served hot, only plain boiling, baking, 
or broiling will cook this delicious half-fruit, half- 
vegetable, so as least to alter or diminish its natural 
flavour ; although its deterioration has already corn- 
Avoid over- nienced, since each of these processes 
cooking. develops a degree of acidity which before 

cooking did not exist, and is neither agreeable nor 
quite wholesome. It is excellent if served cold by 
itself, when simply peeled as above described, with a 
little salt and pepper, and perhaps a few drops of oil, 
with cold meat, or with savoury rice, or indeed in 
many ways. But to serve a hot tomato, by stuffing 
it with onion, parsley, and shalot, with some odds 
and ends of meat or poultry minced {tomates farcies), 
is mischievous meddling carried to its highest pitch ! 



Digitized by 



Google 



Macaroni as a Food. i6i 

Yet this is the form in which tomato is most frequently 
served at foreign tables. Certainly, Talleyrand's well- 
known caution, *^ Point de zHe^* applies no less forcibly 
sometimes to professional cooks, than as a maxim for 
diplomatists. 

It is to be lamented that so little use is made in 
our country of the Italian pastes, especially of maca- 
roni in all its forms ; and that rice, largely used as 
it is, is not so well cooked, and therefore not so highly 
appreciated among the upper and middle classes as 
it deserves to be. 

The mention of macaroni conveys to nineteen out 
of twenty Englishmen, as it does also to 

XuftCftfOtll. 

our cooks, the idea of an indigestible 
mess, containing much toasted cheese and butter, 
well peppered and over-baked, which is sometimes 
served at the end of dinner as a " savoury " to com- 
plete the repast. In this form it ought rarely if ever 
to appear. Macaroni is, in fact, an aliment containing 
much nutritious matter when made from selected 
growths of hard wheat containing more gluten than 
the average grain used for bread. Such valuable 
was the original practice when it was ^®"° ®^ ^^^ 
first produced, and doubtless still continues to be 
so for pastes of the best quality. The cheapest are 
probably made with ordinary wheat, and form there- 
fore a good staple diet, especially if treated according 
to the methods given below. Most people, especially 
in summer, will find it a good substitute for the 
tough fibres of meat, particularly at lunch or midday 

L 



/Google 



Digitized by ^ 



1 62 Food and Feeding. 

meals, when their employments demand continuous 

„ ^ attention during the whole of a long 
An excellent 

lunch for afternoon. To dine or to eat a heavy 

the busy. ^^^j .^ ^j^^ m\A^\t of the day is, for 

busy men, a great mistake: one nevertheless which 
is extremely common, and often productive of dis- 
comfort, to say the least. Macaroni might, with 
advantage to the public, and especially to those who 
are closely occupied between breakfast and dinner, 
be prepared at the restaurants as a staple dish, in 
two or three forms, since, if properly cooked, it 
sustains the power without taxing too much the 
digestion, or rendering the individual heavy, sleepy, 
and incompetent afterwards. Two or three of the 
best and simplest forms of serving it are embodied 
in the following receipts, which are the result of 
several experiments by different methods : — 

Put four ounces of good macaroni (Genoa or 
Author's Naples), as little broken as possible, into 

receipt for a saucepan with three or four pints of 
macaroni ■ 

cooked in boiling water. Boil five minutes, not 

"macaroni longer. Then pour off all the water, 

aujus." and place the macaroni in a stewpan 

with a pint of good stock made from beef or veal, 

or both (or from a well-furnished stock-pot), adding 

a saltspoon of salt and half that quantity of pepper, 

and let it simmer at the comer of the fire until the 

macaroni is tender, not soft and flabby. The time 

necessarily varies, according to the kind and size of 

the macaroni, e.g. fifty or sixty minutes for the best 



Digitized by 



Google 



Au jus and a ritalienne. 163 

Genoese, from thirty-five to forty-five minutes for 
Neapolitan. Its condition, however, should be tested 
by trying a small piece. Most of the stock is 
absorbed by the macaroni . by this time ; but that 
which remains, probably a fourth part of the original 
quantity, may be strengthened, if necessary, by half 
a teaspoonful of the genuine Liebig's Extract of 
Meat, and should be thickened by adding a little 
baked flour or brown roux (see p. 152). 

The contents of the saucepan should be served on 
a hot dish, or a shallow vegetable dish, or in a white 
metal bowl, in any case with a cover. It may be 
also appropriately and agreeably garnished sometimes 
with tomato sauce. The foregoing constitutes maca- 
roni aujus in the simplest form. 

For those who can easily digest cheese and butter, 

an ounce of grated Parmesan, and per- « ,^ , 

^ Another for 

haps half an ounce of good English '< macaroni a 

cheese, may be added, gradually stirring 
well during the latter half of the process, towards the 
end of which a little pat of butter may be added, with 
a sprinkle of Parmesan over the dish when filled, 
before serving. The macaroni ought now to " spin " 
well, that is, delicate threads should extend from one 
portion to another when moved. Lastly, hot tomato 
sauce may be poured over it, or be supplied sepa- 
rately, since some prefer the macaroni without this 
addition. Serve on a hot dish provided with a cover. 
It is now a dish of macaroni d Vltalienne, 

If there is only a weak stock, chiefly made from 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 64 Food and Feeding. 

bones, etc., in the stock-pot, use it, but add a rather 

larger portion of the Liebig's Extract In such case, 

a little flour of lentils, well boiled to thicken the 

stock with, would be a suitable addition. The 

Liebig's Extract should never be added until the 

end of the process, and merely be well stirred in 

immediately after removing from the fire to serve. 

If, instead of stock, milk is used, an agreeable 

_^ change may be made ; and this form 

'X lie sAme 

with milk constitutes macaroni au maigre^ the fore- 

au maigrc going receipts being au gras. To prepare 

this, boil four ounces as before five minutes ; drain 

and place in a stewpan with a pint of milk, simmering 

as above directed until sufficiently tender. Serve 

hot Any milk remaining unabsorbed by the 

macaroni may be thickened with baked flour (wkite) 

or with a white roux. Flavour with a little cinnamon 

or vanilla, or otherwise to taste, and sweeten with 

sugar or saccharin, if desired. For those who prefer 

a savoury dish, and can take cheese and butter, a 

tablespoonful of grated Parmesan, and a small pat 

of the latter, should be gradually added, stirring it 

in during the latter part of the simmering process, 

according to the directions just given for macaroni 

d tltalienne. 

Of rice, the modes of cooking are endless, and yet 

Cooking ^^^ dishes are adopted here besides the 

of rice well-known pudding with milk and sugar, 

with or without eggs ; the moulds of boiled rice, 

variously treated, to be eaten with fruit ; and rice, 



Digitized by 



Google 



Cooking Rice. The Risotto. 165 

rarely well prepared, for service with a curry. There 
is also no doubt that the boiled fowl and nz^^pouletatt, 
riz, usually regarded as a convalescent's dish, might 
be easily rendered sufficiently attractive to merit 
the attention of others. As examples of nutritious, 
and at the same time very palatable savoury dishes, 
I will offer two examples, which might well be 
familiar dishes, at all events, on our breakfast and 
luncheon tables, viz. the risotto a la Milanaise and 
the pilau of the East. Varieties of the latter are 
common among all the populations dwelling adjacent 
to the Mediterranean, from Spain to the Levant. 
A dish of boiled rice being in some sort the culinary 
analogue in the vegetable kingdom, of veal and 
poultry in the animal, furnishing an insipid but 
wholesome basis, is well fitted to be the vehicle for 
producing innumerable flavours and odours, and even 
colours at the table, saffron, for example, and fruit 
juices ; and is thus capable of furnishing various 
dishes, according to the treatment, and to the materials 
for addition, obtainable in different districts. As an 
example of this, I shall first describe the process 
of preparing that agreeable form, " red Receipt for 
rice," to serve as a vegetable with boiled **^®^ "^®'" 
fowl, veal, or a mince, etc. Having washed about 
four ounces of Patna rice, put it into a saucepan 
containing a quart of boiling water with a little salt ; 
stir with a wooden spoon, and in about ten to fifteen 
minutes ascertain if the rice has lost all hardness 
without being soft and the grains adhering. If so. 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 66 Food and Feeding. 

empty the contents over a colander, and let all the 
water drain off; then return the rice to the hot 
saucepan, add a small pat of butter, about two or 
three tablespoonfuls of stock, and two of good 
Italian tomato sauce.* The saucepan is now to be 
put on a part of the hot plate, but not over the fire, 
and the contents should be merely kept stirring or 
"lifted" with the prongs of a silver fork for five 
minutes, so as to mix well and keep the rice grains 
separate, and prevent any portion being caught. 
Serve in a hot vegetable dish. Not only an excellent 
and appetizing garnish, it is also a delight to the eye. 
To make risotto d la Milanaise for two persons. — 
Risotto a la ^^^ ^^o ounces of fresh butter, with an 
Milanaise. onion chopped very fine, into a stewpan, 
and fry until the onion has a pale gold colour. Then 
add six ounces of well-washed Patna rice, with a 
very little powdered saffron, stirring it constantly for 
about two minutes with a wooden spoon, so that it 
does not stick to the stewpan ; after this two minutes* 
cooking, add about a pint of good stock very gradu- 
ally; let it simmer gently, stirring very frequently, 
till the rice is just soft ; before it is quite finished, 
add an atom or two of grated nutmeg and an ounce 
or more, according to taste, of grated Parmesan 
cheese ; after this, cook, stirring well for two or three 
minutes ; then remove from the fire, set the stewpan 
on the hot plate, add a little more butter, cover for 

* Perelli Rocco, Greek Street, Soho, furnishes an excellent 
sauce in small tins. 



Digitized by 



Google 



The PilaU'Rice for Curry. \(ri 

a few minutes, and serve. The quantity of stock or 
beef-tea can be varied according as the risotto is 
preferred thick or otherwise. 

For a Turkish pilau^ well wash six ounces of East 
India rice, and boil in a pint of water a Turkish 
for five minutes at the most ; then throw P^"' 
it into a colander that it may thoroughly drain. 
Next place it in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, 
salt and pepper to taste, stirring well, and adding by 
degrees about half a pint of good fowl broth. After 
about fifteen or twenty minutes it should be properly 
done, turning out with the grains separate. It is to 
be served perfectly hot. The foregoing is a true 
pilau^ but additions may be made of portions of the 
meat of the fowl, of thin slices of bacon, or grated 
beef or ham ; of a little curry powder ; of chutney ; 
of fried onions, mushrooms, etc. It can also be 
made with beef and veal broth and treated as 
above, but in none of these forms could be regarded 
as the true Oriental dish. 

After many trials, for the purpose of producing rice 
in its most perfect condition to accom- „ • t f r 
pany a curry, that is, with every grain boiling rice 
separate, sufficiently cooked but not soft, 
and white as snow, I can recommend the following : 
Take six ounces of good Patna rice, sift, wash, and 
pick out all foreign seeds, etc. Throw it into a sauce- 
pan containing two quarts of boiling water with a 
small teaspoonful of salt and the juice of half a lemon, 
which makes it white. Stir with a wooden spoon, 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 68 Food and Feeding, 

and in about ten or twelve minutes the rice should 
be sufficiently cooked. This may be ascertained by 
pressing a few grains, which should be still firm, but 
softened throughout, without a hard portion in the 
centre. If so, add a pint of cold water to check the 
boiling at once, and then drain all the water from 
the saucepan, leaving the rice therein only. Set it on 
the hot plate, covered, not by the lid, but by a napkin, 
so that the rice may dry, giving it a shake or a stir 
occasionally, when every grain will be separate. 
Serve on a hot dish with cover until it reaches the 
table.* 

Mincing. — There is an important mode of pre- 
paring flesh for food, especially for the purpose of 

* The above receipt is based on the instructions given in one 
of the best practical cook's guides I know, a work written by an 
accomplished officer of her Majesty*s service in India, " Culinary 
Jottings : a Treatise in Thirty Chapters," etc., by Wyvern. 
Fifth Edition. Madras: Higginbotham & Co. 1885. A most 
interesting and suggestive work to the European, although 
designed for Anglo-Indians. In my opinion no culinary library, 
even of modest pretensions, is complete without it. 

The foregoing note, which has appeared in two or three 
previous editions, I purposely retain in this also, for Colonel 
Kenney-Herbert, the author, known at that date as " Wyvern," 
has returned to this country ; and still devoting his leisure to 
the improvement of culinary art, has written various interesting 
and useful small works, e,g. " Fifty Breakfasts," " Fifty 
Lunches," " Fifty Dinners," and " Fifty Suppers." But his chief 
and most complete volume, entitled ** Common Sense Cookery 
for English Households,'* pp. 504, 1894 : E. Arnold, London, is 
admirably adapted for heads of families, as well as to cooks of 
the present day who take interest in their duties and desire to 
improve. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Mincing, a Valuable Process. 169 

rendering it more easily digested, which may be 

briefly described here, I refer to the use ^,. . 

Mincing^ : 
of a good mincing machine for the 

purpose of producing very fine divisions of the 
muscular fibres. I do not so much refer to its 
employment for serving afresh the .,. 
remains of food which have been already ordinary 
cooked, as for its preparation of fresh ' 

meat with a special object in view. For the former, 
in order to produce mince-meat, or . . 
material for rissoles, etc., the process is, special 
of course, extremely useful. I refer ^^^ " ' 
rather to the value of this treatment of fresh meat, 
where sufficient mastication is difficult, owing to 
imperfect teeth or tender gums, or where for fresh 
habitual mastication is neglected, or ^Sh^e^ 
when time cannot really be bestowed imperfect, 
on it. The human stomach being adapted almost 
solely for the digestion of flesh, and not at all for 
that of vegetable and farinaceous matters, which are 
chiefly digested in the first intestine beyond the 
stomach, it is of the highest importance that animal 
fibre, whether of butcher's meat, game, or poultry, 
should be minutely divided by a prolonged me- 
chanical action of the teeth before it is subjected to 
the chemical process, that is, digestion by the gastric 
juice which takes place in the stomach. Accordingly, 
if we are able to introduce into that organ, say, the 
flesh of rump-steak or mutton chop (which especially 
when fresh, as in hot weather, is by no means tender), 



Digitized by 



Google 



lyo Food and Feeding. 

in a state of minute division, the process of digestion 
To faciUtate ^^ rendered far easier and the nutritious 
digestion. elements are assimilated much sooner 
than if they are imperfectly masticated. Thus also 
a considerable expenditure of nervous energy on 
the digestive process is saved for other purposes, and 
after the meal heaviness or undue fulness is rarely 
experienced. 

A pound of rump-steak, free from all fat and skin, 
D* ct* ^^ ^^ equal quantity of the best mutton 

for using the steak, should suffice for a lunch for three 
persons. Treat it as follows : Firsts broil 
it over a clear fire, only about half as much as you 
would do for serving it as a broiled steak, not more, 
so that it will be quite red throughout, although not 
raw when cut. Slice the meat into small strips, 
removing as you do so any portion of fat or skin-like 
matter met with, which is not to be used. The 
mincer having been carefully rinsed with hot water, 
pass the strips through it three times consecutively, 
which ought to yield a soft, thoroughly divided mass. 
Put this into a Bain-marie, with about half or three- 
quarters of a pint of cold stock, free from fat, with 
a little salt and pepper, and mix thoroughly with a 
wooden spoon. Place the vessel on the comer of the 
fire, gradually bringing the water below to a boil, 
stirring all the time until the red tint has almost dis- 
appeared, which will probably be in about seven or 
ten minutes. It should now be a perfectly smooth 
piiriCy and should be served quite hot. An excellent 



Digitized by 



Google 



Directions for Mincing Meat, 171 

accompaniment is a little macaroni aujus{stQ p. 162), 
with some bread thoroughly toasted through, so as to 
be brittle, as all toast ought to be. Some cold toast 
spread with butter may follow, in order to furnish the 
fatty element and render the light meal complete. 

I can conceive no better means of supporting at 
midday, after a long momingfs work, invaluable 
an exhausted system, when it is really m^^Jsi- 
impossible to devote an hour to rest and ^^ss men. 
the ordinary lunch. Midday rest, however, should 
be the invariable rule both before and after that 
meal, and then it would still be hard to find a better 
form of repast than this now indicated.* 

Passing rapidly on without naming the ordinary 

and well-known service of cold meats, „ . . 

Variations, 
fresh and preserved, poultry and game, 

open or under paste, in some form, to be found in 

profusion on table or sideboard, and in which this 

country is unrivalled, a hint or two relating to some 

lighter cold entries may be suggested. It is scarcely 

possible to treat these apart from the salad which, 

admirable by itself, also forms the Garnish for 

natural garnish for cold dishes. A simple ^^^^ dishes. 

aspic jelly, little more than the consommi of yesterday, 

first diluted, then flavoured with a little lemon peel 

and tarragon vinegar, furnishes another form of 

* The best form of mincer I have seen claims, I believe, to 
be an American design, and is known as the " Enterprise." 
The agency is 86, Dale Street, Liverpool. It is inexpensive, 
and is sent post free anywhere. 



Digitized by 



Google 



172 Food and Feeding. 

garnish, or a basis in which to present choice morsels 
in tempting forms, such as poultry livers, ox-palates, 
quenelles, fillets of game, chicken, wild fowl or fish, 
prawns, plover's eggs, etc., associated with a well- 
made salad. On this system an enterprising cook 
can furnish many changes of light but excellent 
nutritious dishes, for summer breakfasts and lunches, 
as well as for dinner. 
Aspic jelly, however, is now so popular, and 

deservedly so, that a special receipt, to 
Aspic jelly. 

which personal trials and consideration 

have been given under my own eye, as in all such 

offered in the text, is here presented as a ready way 

Author's of preparing it For this purpose a 

receipt good beef extract is particularly useful 

and efficient Hence it is quite unnecessary to make 

now, as formerly, a clear meat stock with much 

labour for this purpose ; especially when, as in hot 

weather, it will not keep well, and prolonged stove 

heat should not be employed unnecessarily. At very 

short notice a capital aspic can be prepared as 

follows : Slice a large carrot or turnip, a small head 

of celery, adding two cloves, pepper and salt, a bay 

leaf, a small bunch of sweet herbs; all to be put 

into a saucepan with three pints of water, and 

allowed to simmer for two hours until reduced to 

two pints. Pour off" through a strainer and let 

stand until cold. When required, add two ounces 

of gelatine in hot summer weather (one and a 

half ounce suffices when it is cool) to a pint of the 



/Goog^ 



Digitized by ^ "' " "^ 



Aspic Jelly. Salads. 173 

cold liquor, and let it stand two hours. Then heat 
the remaining pint to boiling point, and add to the 
pint which contains the gelatine, together with a thin 
paring of lemon peel, two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, 
the same of mild vinegar, and one or two teaspoonfuls 
of tarragon vinegar. Then pour in two or three 
whites of eggs, lightly beaten, and stir well to fine 
the liquor. Bring the whole just up to the boiling 
point ; then at once remove and keep on the hot 
plate close by, but not boiling, for three minutes only. 
Take it off and set it aside for three minutes longer, 
and then strain through flannel. It is now quite hot 
and clear ; stir in at once a large teaspoonful of the 
meat extract, and set aside to cool until wanted. 

On salad so much has been written, that one might 
suppose, as of many other culinary pro- 
ductions, that to make a good one was 
the result of some difficult and complicated process, 
instead of being simple and easy to a degree. The 

materials must be secured fresh, are not , 

Instructions 
to be too numerous and diverse, must for salad- 
be well washed with very little handling, ^* 
and all water removed as far as possible. It may 
be made by the hostess, or by some member 
of the family, sufficiently interested to regard the 
process as an exercise of fine art, immediately before 
the meal, and be kept cool until wanted. Not many 
servants can be trusted to execute the How to dress 
"simple details involved in cross-cutting a salad, 
the lettuce, endive, or what not, but two or three 



Digitized by 



Google 



174 Food and Feeding. 

times in a roomy salad bowl; mixing one salt- 
spoonful of salt and half that quantity of pepper in 
a tablespoon, which is to be filled three times con- 
secutively with the best fresh olive oil, stirring each 
briskly until the condiments have been thoroughly 
mixed, and at the same time distributed over the 
salad. This is next to be tossed thoroughly but 
lightly, until every portion glistens, scattering mean- 
time a little finely chopped fresh tarragon and chervil, 
with a few atoms of chives over the whole, so that 
sparkling green particles spot, as with a pattern, 
every portion of the leafy surface. Lastly, but only 
immediately before serving, one small tablespoonful 
of mild French or, better still, Italian red wine- 
vinegar is to be sprinkled over all, followed by another 

tossing of the salad.* The uncooked 
Additions. 

tomato, itself the prince of salads, may 

be sliced and similarly treated for separate service, 
or added to the former, equally for taste and appear- 
ance. A tomato, however, should never be cut — 
it may have been previously trimmed a little — until 
the moment it is wanted for eating, as the juice and 
pulp of a ripe fruit drain away, and leave only its 
cellular framework, if it has been divided an hour 
beforehand. The skin should be removed in the 
manner described at p. i6o. Cold boiled asparagus 
Q^\^ served with a mayonnaise forms a dish 

asparagus. ^f jts kind not to be surpassed. At 
present ranking, when the quality is fine, as an 
* A salad for five or six persons is supposed. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Various Salads. Remoulade. 175 

expensive luxury, there is no reason why, with 
the improved methods of cultivating this delicious 
and wholesome vegetable, it should not be produced 
in great abundance, and for less than half its present 
price.* As to the manifold green stuffs which, 
changing with the season, may be presented as salad, 
their name is legion ; and their choice must be left 
to the eater's judgment, fancy, and digestion, all of 
which of course vary greatly. 

A favourite combination is that of uncooked celery 
cut in rings, with small slices or strips cclery and 
of cooked beet. This should be always ^*^** 
served on small plates, one sufficing for each person s 
consumption. Kidney potatoes and 
beet sliced, well sprinkled with parsley celeriac with 
and chervil, and a few atoms of tarragon, ^ ^ 

finely cut, is another ; slices of celeriac (boiled) may 
be added. An agreeable salad, striking to the eye, 
when cost is a matter of indifference, may be made 
with slices of kidney potato and fine black truffles 
of equal size; or of slices of celeriac and truffles 
mixed, immediately before serving, with a well- 
made r^/^^^/^/d:^/? sauce. Remoulade is a ««Salad- 
mayonnaise^ into which one or two hard- ^^^' ' 
boiled yolks of eggs and a little mustard moulade." 
have been smoothly incorporated by rubbing in the 
powdered yolk little by little during the making of 

* On asparagus, and also on salad culture, see " The Parks 
and Gardens of Paris," by W. Robinson, F.L.S., pp. 468 et seq. 
Second Edition. Macmillan. 



Digitized by 



Google 



176 Food and Feeding. 

the sauce in the usual way. A Japanese vegetable, 

, Stachys tuber osa, each small tuber cut 

tubcrosa," in two, raw or boiled for five minutes, 
etc 

mixed with small discs of boiled beet 

and slices of raw celery, is a novelty.* 

But there is another form of salad which is always 

available, and welcome, too, in any season of the 

year, viz. the salad of cold boiled table vegetables. 

Various ^^ excellent basis may be made of 

other salads, cooked French beans, dressed as directed 

in the previous paragraph; for this purpose those 

preserved in tins may be used. Greatly inferior as 

these are when served hot to the fresh haricot verts^ 

they are very acceptable as salad in winter and early 

spring. The preserved green haricots {flageolets), 

similarly treated and added in equal proportion, with 

a garnish of sliced carrot, beet-root, or tomato, may 

be arranged not only as a most savoury 

Additions. z> j j 

and wholesome, but even as an elegant 

dish. Cold boiled potatoes,t carrots, turnips, broad 

* The author is credited with having introduced the above- 
named vegetable into this country from Japan {Gardener's 
Chronicle^ Jan. 7, 1888), and believes he was the first to grow it 
here, from some tubers which were sent him. It is very easy to 
cultivate, very hardy, is not injured by frost, and, once planted, 
maintains its place like a Jerusalem artichoke. As a vegetable 
for the table, it should be boiled from fifteen to twenty minutes 
in salt and water, and eaten with a simple white sauce, a la 
poulette, for example. Now, 1898, seen in the shops as 
" Japanese Artichokes." 

t The best variety of potato for the purpose is that known as 
Vitelotte; but in any case a kidney potato should be employed, 
if the variety named is not obtainable. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Varieties of Salad. 177 

beans, peas, cauliflower, and other greens, may all 
be employed thus : combined and garnished accord- 
ing to the maker's taste, which there is abundant 
opportunity for displaying. Salads also may be 
varied and made more substantial by the addition 
of small fillets of sole or trout, or the flavour may 
be heightened, if desired, by morsels of haddock, 
sardine, etc. Well known and appreciated as the 
Salade de Ugumes * always is at a Paris restaurant, 
most persons here would prefer the vegetables simply 
sliced, so as to preserve some of their natural form 
and texture, rather than cut into innumerable small 
cubes, as usually presented. In all cases, such salad 
should be kept very cool, and be dressed immediately 
before serving in warm weather. 

♦ Salad of Cooked Vegetables. 

The French salad of cold cooked vegetables, Salade de 
Ugumes^ is made as follows : — 

Take 4 ozs. of carrots cut in squares of about a quarter of an 
inch ; 3 ozs. of turnips cut in the same way ; 4 ozs. of small 
green asparagus cut in pieces ; 4 ozs. of peas ; 4 ozs. of French 
beans cut in squares like the turnips and carrots. Boil each of 
these vegetables separately in about a quart of water, with a 
teaspoonful of salt ; when cooked strain them on a cloth ; let 
them cool, and then place the French beans at the bottom of a 
salad bowl. Arrange the other vegetables in little heaps around, 
first the carrots, then the peas, then the turnips, then the 
asparagus, so as to alternate the colours, and so on again. The 
rest of the peas and asparagus may be placed in the centre, and 
sprinkled with a spoonful of chopped ravigote (fresh tarragon, 
chervil, parsley, and chives). Serve with oil and vinegar apart. 



M 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER IX. 

Fish, and its value as food — ^The various constituents of flesh, 
of wheaten bread, and of fish compared — ^Analytic table, 
showing the same— Fish is desirable food for many persons 
— Ought to be less costly than it is — ^Varieties of fish, and 
their distinctive characters as food — Some contain large 
proportion of fat — ^The conger and the sturgeon;— Prepara- 
tion of fish for the table— Value of head, bones, and fins 
for sauce making — Fish sauces — Salmon in perfection — 
Crimping of ditto— Mode of cooking it — Baking of fish — 
Roasting and broiling — Boiling and steaming — Fish soups 
and stews, excellent — Receipts — Bouillabaisse — A working 
man's stew. 

Before dealing practically with the cookery of fish, 
it is desirable to compare its value as a nutritive 
material with that which is supplied by other im- 
portant types of food. 

First, let us take as a starting-point a fact relating 
Amount of to the structure of the human body, 
8o?SsLi ^"^ adequate nourishment of which is 

human body, the chief aim to be accomplished by the 
digestion of the varied matters which we eat and 
drink. Many persons are surprised to learn that 
from two-thirds to three-quarters of the body, judging 
by weight, consist of water; and this proportion is 



Digitized by 



Google 



Food Value of Fish. 179 

the same, or nearly so, in all the land animals which 
are consumed by man for his own support. 

Thus, in every hundred pounds' weight of healthy 
flesh, not artificially fattened, whether and in 
beef, mutton, or poultry, and from ^^^^^ 
which the bone has been removed, about poultry, 
seventy-five to seventy-eight pounds of water are 
present, and are separated as such from the solid 
matter of the meat in the process of cooking and 
digestion. Twenty-five pounds, or a little less, that 
is to say, not quite a fourth of the whole, alone are 
solid, and alone contain nutritive material. Speaking 
roughly, these twenty-five pounds are constituted as 
follows : — 

About sixteen or seventeen pounds consist of the 

essential elements of the flesh or muscle, -, ,. . 

' Solids 

and of the solid part of the blood, which composed of 
/y. J ., . ^ u -M. albuminoids,- 

afford the important nitrogenous con- 
stituents of food, the "proteids," or "flesh-formers," 
but not including another nitrogenous compound 
known as " gelatine," which forms the principle of a 
less important group (see p. 22). 

Of this gelatine, with some allied compounds, 
about one to two pounds are present ; 
but although nitrogenous compounds, 
they are distinct from the preceding class of flesh- 
formers, and possess less nutritive value as food. 

Of fatty matters, about two to four 
pounds may be reckoned. 

The remainder consists of what are known as 



Digitized by 



Google 



i8o Food and Feeding. 

" extractives," and of various saline and even metallic 
Extractives matters, all of which are essential parts 
and salts. of the animal body. 

It is necessary to observe that when meat is 
M ts 'th u'^duly fattened, as very often happens, 
superfluous the above proportions are greatly altered. 
When the meat is fat pork, for example, 
reared for bacon making, etc., or beef which is fed 
in order to secure a prize for size and weight, the 
products are very different, containing largely fat, 
with less albumen and fibrin, and much less water ; 
and the pig owes his existence in great measure to 
the facility with which he produces fat meat for 
human food, such fat being of special value to use in 
combination with other foods, the potato, for example, 
which contain almost none of it 

We will next examine another great food staple, a 
W t d typical example from the vegetable 
solids in kingdom, because familiar to all and 

extensively used, viz. fresh wheaten 
bread. In one hundred parts of this, about thirty- 
five to forty are water, fifty are starch, about eight 
consist of the nitrogenous principle corresponding to 
the proteids or flesh-forming elements in flesh, and 
there is but a fraction of fatty matter, the remainder 
being salts, etc. See p. 44 for the exact analysis. 

Now let us compare with these the constituent 
elements of fish. There is a closer resemblance, at 
first sight, perhaps, than many would expect to find. 
Notwithstanding that the fish is an inhabitant of 



Digitized by 



Google 



Food Elements in Fish. i8i 

water, and cannot live out of it, the proportion of that 
element in the animaFs structure exceeds only by 
a small amount the proportion which is present in 
land animals. In other words, the solid constituents 
of fish as a class, and there are important exceptions 
here and there, are but little less in weight than those 
of land animals already described. 

In one hundred pounds of fish without bone, 
from seventy-five to eighty-five are m ^^ a 
water, or rather more than three- solids in 
quarters of the whole ; leaving, say, 
about twenty pounds of solids as a mean estimate. 
Of these, about twelve to eighteen pounds are nitro- 
genous compounds. The most important, or flesh- 
forming principle, is less in quantity than in meat, and 
there is a rather larger proportion of gelatine. The 
proportion of fat varies greatly. The saline matters 
are pretty constant, and moderate in quantity. 

The comparison can be more easily made by means 
of the following table : — 

Analysis in General Terms of the Composition of 
THE Flesh of a Healthy Land Animal not Arti- 
ficially Fattened, and Omitting the Bones. 
In loo parts. 
About . . 75 to 78 are water. comi^sitions 

Leaving . . 22 „ 25 of solids. already 

Of these solids- descriBed. 

/are proteids or\ 
About . . 1 6 on 7;< flesh - forming / Nitrogenous 
' material. .1 compounds. 
„ . « I to 2 „ gelatine . •/ 
„ . . 2 „ 4 » fat. 

Remainder — ** Extractives " and salts. 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 82 Food and Feeding. 

Analysis of Wheaten Bread. 
In loo parts. 

About . . 35 to 40 are water. 

„ . . 50 ,, carbo-hydrates, starch. 

„ . . 8 ,9 proteids. 

Remainder — ^A trace of fat with salts. 

Analysis of White Fish without Bone (Soles, Whiting, 
turbot, etc.). 

About • • 75 to 85 are water. 
„ • • 20 „ solids. 

Of these solids — 

iare partly proteids, \ 
with a rather Nitrogenous 
large proportion I compounds, 
of gelatine. J 
Remainder — A little fat with salts. 

In some fish, where the fat is large in quantity (herring, 
mackerel, salmon, etc.), the water is correspondingly diminished. 

It should be stated that this estimate has been 
based solely on the leading and most important facts 
afforded by a chemical analysis, without reference to 
other considerations of minor importance referred to 
below.* 

* It is well known that there are some restorative qualities 
contained in animal fiesh, which, although not at present fully 
appreciated by chemical analysis, have a value of no mean 
order, demonstrated chiefly by empirical observation. The 
invigorating effect of a small quantity of beef-tea, in a person 
suffering from inanition, may be cited in illustration ; the solid 
matter resulting from its evaporation being insignificant in 
quantity when compared with the support afforded. Now, the 
product obtained by dealing with fish, in the same manner 
as we treat beef in order to obtain " beef-tea," is greatly inferior 



Digitized by 



Google 



Fish Compared with Flesh. 183 

We may now arrive at an approximative estimate 
of the place which fish occupies as Value of fish 
nutrient material among the other pro- ^aTSSS'^ 
ducts which the animal kingdom offer of meat 
to men. Fish is inferior to flesh, not in the quality, 
but in the quantity of certain constituents, viz. the 
proteids, or flesh-formers, of which it contains fully 
a third less than ordinary meat. It contains more 
gelatine, which, although a nitrogenous product, is 
much inferior to. "albumen," and can only partially 

in this restorative quality, although the solids present are larger 
in quantity in "fish-tea" than in that of meat, being chiefly 
gelatine. 

I have had the following experiments performed in the most 
accurate manner, which will show in part the nature of the 
chemical diflference : — 

One pound of rump-steak, one pound of turbot, each without 
skin and bone, the former freed from fat, were thus separately 
treated. The flesh was passed twice through a mincing-machine, 
and suflicient cold water to cover (one pint) was added. After 
standing one hour, the mass was heated to boiling point, and 
allowed to simmer ten minutes, then strained through calico, 
and the contents of the strainer washed with water : a little 
floating fat was removed (in the case of the beef). Each of 
the liquids was evaporated on a water bath to the consistence 
of a soft extract. 

Beef-product 

Weight of extract, 276 grains or 3*94 per cent. 
Of this product, 5 per cent, was gelatine. 

Fish-product, 

Weight of extract, 396 grains or 5*6 per cent. 
Of this product the gelatine amounted to 21*8 per cent: 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 84 Food and Feeding. 

replace a portion of this latter in the animal economy, 
while the "extractives" are less valuable than the 
extractives of meat As a rule, fat is almost absent ; 
in certain varieties it is abundant. Fish is an 
^ aliment well adapted for persons whose 

food for physical labour is not considerable ; but 

niany. ^^ deficient elements can be easily sup- 

plied from other sources, as we shall see hereafter. 
The popular estimate of the value of fish as an 
article of nutritious diet rates it, I think, below its 
value ; and it deserves to be more largely consumed 
than it is. At the same time it must be admitted 
that the high price which the finest sorts obtain 
make them costly forms of food, so that they must, 
by a large proportion of the community, be regarded 
as articles of luxury for occasional and not for fre- 
quent use. 

I may further remark that the list of fish in 

general demand by the public is a re- 
varieties stricted one. The force of habit, together 
used as food s.«« ^t /•• 

with the entire absence of interest or 

curiosity on the part of our countrymen in relation 
to diet, has led to a conventional usage, limiting 
greatly and disadvantageously the variety of fish 
which would otherwise arrive at the market. Sole, 
whiting; haddock, herring, mackerel, cod, salmon, 
turbot, brill, trout, smelt, and red mullet, form a 
group to which a large proportion of British house- 
holds in purchasing fresh fish as a rule strictly limit 
their orders. Again, at almost every hotel, coffee- 



Digitized by 



Google 



Qualifies of Fish Compared. 185 

room, or public restaurant here, and whatever the 
hour of day, it is rare indeed if the waiter summoned 
to an applicant demanding fish does not 
first suggest the inevitable fried sole, 
whatever else he may have to offer ; and it is generally 
accepted as probably the safest order to give, and the 
most likely to be promptly executed No desire for 
variety in material or in cookery is manifested, for if 
the host suggested something less familiarly known, a 
troublesome doubt as to his motive would probably 
be aroused in the mind of the guest 

Relative to the list of fish just given, it may be 
remarked that the whiting, the smelt. The easiest 
and the sole are the most delicate in ^Sid'S^^" 
flavour, and the easiest of digestion ; delicate ; 
fitting them admirably to the invalid commencing 
after illness to make a trial of solid food ; the two 
former being little less nutritious than the sole, which 
is, moreover, susceptible of very varied treatment in 
high-class cooking for the production of elegant 
entries. The turbot, rightly esteemed, the most 
is stronger food, and agrees well with substantial, 
most persons. The cod, for some, is not quite so readily 
taken ; and is not only more palatable, but is some- 
times more easily assimilated when " crimped." The 
same may be said of the salmon, a leading character- 
istic of which is the presence of fat. This element 
in fish is more apt to disagfree with the stomach than 
fat from some other sources ; and on this account it 
is that many either avoid, or eat sparingly of salmon. 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 86 Food and Feeding. 

As the fat is chiefly found in the underside of the 

^.. . ^ ^ fish, a slice from the back only should 
Oil in fish. 

be taken by such persons ; but it may be 

taken as generally true that in the freshly killed fish 

the fat is more wholesome than on the second or 

third day after leaving the water, when it becomes 

oily and acquires a slight characteristic taste and 

odour. 

The mackerel is another oily fish, and it disagrees 
with some persons accordingly ; so is the red mullet, 
but the oil is chiefly in the liver, and gives the fish 
its peculiar flavour and value. The herring tribe 
abound in oil, as we shall see hereafter. 

Another list of fish which well deserves attention 
is headed by the dory, a fish of the second rank, with 
a peculiar firm, short, flakey, and viery white flesh. 
Fish less and not perhaps sufficiently appreciated. 

SSit'^"* The plaice, the skate (usually crimped), 
food. lemon-sole, grey mullet, haddock, fresh 

herring, and the flounder follow, all excellent food, 
and wanting only proper treatment in the kitchen to 
make them very palatable ; while in nutritive qualities 
some of them rank as high as the sole and whiting. 
Then the herring-tribe, viz. the pilchard, and smaller 
varieties of the family, by reason of their abundance, 
the facility with which they are preserved, and 
of the large proportion of fat which they contain, 
furnish a supply of useful food for the working 
man. 

But besides all these there are fish, which may be 



Digitized by 



Google 



Fish rarely seen, but Good. 187 

placed if not in the first, yet certainly in the second 
rank, many of which are practically pishofthe 
unknown to ninety-nine out of every second class, 
hundred London housekeepers. First may be named 
the wolf-fish, or cat-fish, which, although unlike in 
appearance to the usual occupants of a fishmonger's 
shop, is a white fish of excellent quality, ^y^ excellent 
It lives almost entirely on Crustacea, a in quality, 
circumstance, as Yarrell long ago pointed out, always 
associated with excellence in the fish so fed. The 
superiority of the cod caught at the Dogger Bank is 
said to be partly due to the same cause, as their food 
at this spot is largely crustacean. The halibut, from 
the North Sea, closely related to the turbot, is good 
and substantial food, and when large, as it often is, 
is also very cheap. The sea-bream, not 
unlike a large fresh-water perch, and the sufficiently 
basse, which has been sometimes styled 
a white salmon, are both useful varieties which have 
never received the attention they deserve, and which 
may be presented simply yet effectively at table. 
The gurnard is much better known, and an excellent 
dish may be made with it. Among cheap fish, which 
might be obtained in any quantity and at a small 
price, are the ling and hake, related closely to 
the cod, but chiefly used at present as salted fish 
and exported ; the thomback, of the same family as 
the skate, and equal in quality ; the pollack, a sub- 
stantial whiting, and the coal-fish, of the same family, 
but second in order of quality, are both good when 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 88 Food and Feeding, 

in season ; a proviso which, it is to be remembered, 
applies equally to every variety. 

I shall but enumerate the conger— excellent for 
^ . soup and stew making ; the whole tribe 

the eel of eels with their abounding fatty con- 

^* stituents, larger even than those of the 

herring family ; and the sturgeon with a fibre ap- 
proaching in quality nearer to that of meat than any 
Fresh-water other fish ; besides all the fresh-water 
^®^* fish, such as pike, tench, perch, etc., of 

which the supply is, by comparison with sea fish, 
limited ; following on which there is still a large 
number of minor fish which it would be tedious to 
particularize. 

The fish for the day's consumption having been 

„ ^. selected, a remark or two may be made 
Preparation ' ^ 

of fish for on its preparation for the table. This 
*^***"*- commences in the hands of the fish- 

monger, as soon as it has become the property of 
the purchaser. Before entering into his possession, 

««ci • " ^^ ^^ ^^^ *^ undergo the process tech- 
by the fish- nically known as "cleaning." This 
monger. differs considerably according to the fish 

to be dealt with, but in all cases it involves the 
loss of what is often a valuable portion of nutritive 
matter. The gills, liver, intestines, etc., are first 
removed, often some skin, then portions of the fins, 
sometimes the head also. The best of these are 
known as "cuttings," and are sold at a low price 
to the poor, at the close of the day, many of 



Digitized by 



Google 



Every Part of Fish Useful. 189 

whom thoroughly appreciate their value and profit 

thereby. 

To illustrate the result of this process for the 

purchaser, let us see what happens in ^. .. 

one instance, as an example, perhaps a tion of what 

somewhat extreme one, but nevertheless 

occurring many times daily in every fishmonger's 

shop. A pair of soles is bought and ordered to be 

sent home in fillets : eight fillets accordingly arrive. 

The soles were first skinned, the internal parts taken 

out, after which a long fillet, consisting of all the 

flesh on either side of the central bone, both front 

and back, was removed, making four from each fish. 

The whole skeleton, with the head, fins, . , 
' ' A sole 

and tail, forming a single entire piece, "cleaned" is 
• «• • 1 1 -KT half wasted, 

remains as " cuttings in the shop. Now 

this piece will be found just equal to the fillets in 

weight, constituting in fact one-half of the fish ; and 

it will make excellent stock for fish-soup, a form of 

food greatly neglected in this country. For in 

utilizing fish, as far as possible, and in circumstances 

where a strict economy must be regarded, the soft 

parts of almost any fish may be cooked apart, so that 

the skeleton, head, and fins may be utilized for a 

fish-stock, or to make the foundation of the sauce 

intended to accompany the fish when served. It 

may be unnecessary to say that these parts are 

useless for that purpose when already cooked, as by 

boiling, frying, etc 

As a general observation, it may be said that in 



Digitized by 



Google 



IQO Food and Feeding. 

preparing fish for the table by the cook, sufficient 
The cook's trouble is rarely taken to remove some 
^'»^' portion of the bones ; this can be advan- 

tageously done by a clever hand, without disfiguring 
or injuring the fish. Sauces should be 
appropriately served; for example, the 
fat sauces, as hollandaisey and other forms of melted 
butter, are an appropriate complement of hot boiled 
fish, while mayonnaise is similarly related to cold. 
These and their variations, which are numerous, may 
for fried ^^^ accompany both broiled and fried 

and broiled fish ; but the latter are often more whole- 
some and agreeable when served with 
only a squeeze of lemon juice, and a few grains of 
the zest, if approved, when a fresh green lemon is 
not to be had — and it rarely can be here. But the 
juice of the mushroom is preferred, in the form of 
catchup, and no doubt justly, by some, for the grill. 
Endless variations and additions may be made ac- 
cording to taste on these principles. But there is 
another no less important principle, already referred 
Fish should to, viz. that the fish itself often furnishes 
girtlyfurnish ^ sauce from its own juices, better and 
sauce, more appropriate than some of the com- 

plicated and not very digestible mixtures prepared 
by the cook. Thus "melted butter" — which is re- 
garded as essentially an English sauce — when in- 
tended to accompany fish, should not be, as it almost 
invariably is, a carelessly made compound of butter, 
flour, and water; but in place of the last-named 



Digitized by 



Google 



Fish Sauces and Garnish. 191 

ingredient there should be a concentrated liquor 

made from the trimmings of the fish shell-fishas 

itself, with the addition of a few drops Ra""^^- 

of lemon juice, and strengthened, if necessary, from 

other sources, as from shell-fish of some kind. Thus 

an everyday sauce of wholesome and 

Illustrations, 
agreeable quality is easily made ; and 

this principle finds its highest illustration in that 

admirable dish, the sole, with sauce au vin blanc of 

the French, or, as associated with shell-fish, in the 

sole d la normande* This is well served in Paris, of 

course, but it can be found in perfection on the 

coast of France, especially in the south, due in part 

probably to the abundant garnish of shell-fish, which 

are found in finer condition and fresher there, while 

* A leading review, in a friendly notice of the above when 
it first appeared, spoke of a "mistake" made by me in 
" imagining a sole en matelote normande to be a simpler dish 
than it really is." I certainly intended the sentence in which it 
is named, and which is reprinted above without change, to 
signify my high respect for this finished dish, and if I have not 
made this clear, I hereby desire to do so. It was named to show 
that the principle of employing the juices of fish, and especially 
of shell-fish, as a sauce, finds its highest expression in the sole 
d la normande. Turning to my copy of Jules Gouff(^*s classical 
work, pp. 621-22 of the original edition, Paris, 1867, 1 see that he 
remarks specially thereupon, " La recette que j'indique n'a pour 
base comme on a pu constater, que Pessence de poisson," pre- 
cisely warranting what I had stated. It is understood, of 
course, that these juices are combined with a good velouti to 
make the sauce, and that it may be garnished further to any 
extent, according to the luxury demanded by the guest, or for 
the entertainment. 



Digitized by 



Google 



192 Food and Feeding. 

the sole bears transit and keeps well, for it does not 
inhabit the southern waters. 

Some fish furnish their own sauce in a still simpler 
manner, of which an illustration no less striking is 
at hand in the easiest, but perhaps best mode of 
cooking a red mullet, viz. baking it, and securing the 
gravy of delicious flavour, which issues abundantly 
from the fish, chiefly from the liver, as its only sauce. 

Paris suffers in the matter of fish by distance from 

_, . - the seaboard. London has a far fresher 

Pans far 

from sea- supply. No Frenchman knows what 

salmon is until he tastes, sometimes 

with much astonishment, a Severn or Christchurch 

fish, taken from the water in the morning, crimped 

on arrival in London in the afternoon, such as our 

leading fishmongers can supply during all the spring 

and summer in time for dinner. It is one of the 

few things which we are able to offer our neighbours 

« « * ^ without fear of rivalry. A Parisian 
Really fresh t ., , 

salmon not cannot obtain a salmon until the very 

§S^e, ^ delicate oil of the fish, by reason of 

for reasons the lapse of time, say sixteen to twenty- 

' four hours after having been killed, 

has acquired a certain flavour, which is in fact the 

result of commencing decomposition. That flavour 

is for him, and for all those who cannot obtain a 

salmon freshly killed, the natural and inherent flavour 

of the fish. Such persons are surprised to find that 

this distinctive characteristic is wholly absent in the 

fresh fish. The fine nutty flavour of the latter, and 



Digitized by 



Google 



Cooking of Crimped Salmon. 193 

the crisp brittle quality of the flakes which the flesh 
offers after crimping, are wholly unknown wherever 
the salmon has to be carried by a transit exceeding 
in length a duration of twenty-four hours. 

Perhaps I ought to add, lest a doubt should exist 
in the mind of any one, that crimping crimping of 
thus done, that is, eight hours after re- SScte no 
moval from the water, inflicts no pain P*i°* 
whatever on the fish ; were it otherwise I would not 
sanction it for any consideration whatever. To cook 
crimped salmon in perfection, a slice should be 
plunged into an ample saucepan of boiling salted 
water, and allowed to boil six or seven minutes only. 
The quantity of water in the fish-kettle should of 
course be sufficient in relation to the salmon put 
therein, not to cease boiling in consequence ; and on 
removing the slices when the time is up, they should 
not be exposed more than is necessary even to the 
action of the steam arising from the kettle. This 
may appear almost an unnecessary refinement : I can 
vouch for the fact that exposure to the current of 
steam for a few seconds lessens materially the crisp- 
ness of the crimped fish. 

Closely related to the baking of fish is another 
mode of cooking it, which is applicable Roasting 
to nearly every variety, and which has o^^*^ 
the advantage of retaining all the nutritive material, 
while the juices and the characteristic flavour are 
preserved in a manner not attained by any other 
process. It is rarely practised, because any other 

N 



Digitized by 



Google 



194 Food and Feeding. 

than those conventional methods which have been 
universally employed in cookery are slowly adopted 
by the public, until attention has been thoroughly 
before the aroused on the subject Nevertheless, 
^*» the method I am about to advocate is 

widely applicable, and well deserves at least to rank 
among the other and better known modes of pre- 
paring fish. It consists in placing the fish, after the 
usual cleaning, entire, if of moderate size, say from 
a sole to a small turbot or dory, in a block tin, 
aluminium, or pure nickel dish, adapted to the 
form and size of the fish, but a little deeper than the 
juices not to thickness of it, so as to retain all the 
evaporate, juices, which by exposure to the heat 
will flow out. First, however, the surface of the fish 
is to be lightly spread with butter, and a morsel 
or two added round it; the whole is then to be 

. ^ placed in a Dutch or American oven, 
serving' for 

basting and in front of a clear fire.* The advan- 

for sauce. ^^^^ ^j. ^^^ method are, that the fish 

is cooked entirely in its own juices, which are 
Nutriment abundant, and form the best sauce, 
not wasted ; ^^^ ^^^ these juices which contain part 
of the nutriment and much of the characteristic 

♦ Mr. W. Burton, some time ago of Oxford Street, made for 
me an oven and dishes expressly for the purpose of cooking fish 
before the fire. The oven is a modification of that known as the 
" American," being rather deeper, from before backwards, and 
much shallower, from above downwards, on account of the flat 
form of fish not occupying the space which is required by joints 
of meat. 



Digitized by 



Google 



J 



Fish Baked and Roasted. 195 

flavour are saved and utilized; lastly, the direct 
action of the fire browning the surface of the fish, 
gives that appetizing flavour which is flavour 
the especial charm of the "roast" and retained, 
the "grill," and which has been frequently referred 
to in this volume as "tasting of the fire." In fact, 
the proper term for denoting the method described 
is that of "roasting," for the fish is literally roasted 
before the fire, and basted in its own gravy; and 
with the same advantage in result as that which 
roasted meat possesses by universal consent over 
that which is baked in an oven. It is iU)plicability 
necessary to guard against over-roasting to Sany** 
so as to dry the fish and evaporate the kinds, 
gravy ; and if through carelessness this condition has 
been reached, the fish should be moistened by the 
addition of a little light stock before serving; and 
this is always done on the dish in which the cook- 
ing has taken place. The method is susceptible of 
innumerable variations to accommodate different 
tastes. Portions of fish prepared as fillets may be 
treated as well as entire fish ; garnishes of all kinds, 
as shell-fish, etc., may be added, flavouring also with 
fine herbs and condiments, according to taste. I 
may add that the process may be con- o^. .xu 
ducted in a properly ventilated oven care, gives 
where a clear fire is really not to be had, ^^ 
producing a result nearly, although not quite, equal 
to true roasting ; or the dish may be first placed 
in the oven, and be finished before the fire, which is 



Digitized by 



Google 



196 Food and Feeding. 

better. Cooked, however, as first described, such a 
dish may be welcome at any table; in preparing 
red mullet, for example, as just referred to, it is in- 
imitable ; while a fresh haddock or a dory, stuffed or 
not, take higher rank by being thus treated. But the 
working man also can thus advantageously cook 
before his kitchen fire, in a common Dutch oven, 
some fillets of plaice or skate with a slice or two 
of bacon; the dish to be filled or garnished with 
some previously boiled haricots ; and by this means 
he may secure an economical and most savoury meal, 
which is at the same time nutritious. This is but 
a single illustration among many which might be 
adduced, of what may be done by this simple method 
for those whose resources are of the slenderest kind. 
Having regard to this question of economy and 
B ii* fish, preserving the juices of the fish, it should 
a wasteful never be forgotten that by boiling it in 
^ ^ ' any manner considerable waste of nutri- 

tive material occurs. Relative to this subject, I have 
made numerous experiments, and find that the loss 
in weight by boiling varies with different fish, and 
also with the mode of operating. It is rarely as low 
as five per cent, it is generally much more, and I 
have known it to reach thirty per cent, the water 
in which the fish has been boiled containing of course 
a certain amount of lost solid animal matter. In 
order to avoid waste as much as possible, the fish 
should be placed in absolutely boiling water, which 
should contain a good proportion of salt. The liquor 



Digitized by 



Google 



Boiling causes much Loss. 197 

in which the fish has thus been cooked, I have 
evaporated, and have obtained from it, in solid 
deposit^ no less than four per cent, of the original 
weight of the fish ; a considerable quantity, consti- 
tuting it, in fact, a fish broth. There steaming 
is no doubt, then, that steaming is a far Preferable, 
more economical process than boiling, and ought 
to be substituted for the latter when fish is to be 
cooked by heated water only. See description of 
that method at pp. 105, 106. 

To return to the utilization of the commoner kinds 
of fish, and of fish trimmings or cuttings, pish soups, 
in the composition of stock. From such **^ 
materials may be made a soup, or better still, a stew 
of fish, in very savoury and nutritious form, for the 
economical purchaser; or a delicate and attractive 
dish may be presented for an experienced palate. 
I may offer as an example of the former ^ French 
a receipt from Gouff^, for making a good ^^eceipt. 
consommi of fish only, without any meat, and there- 
fore a soup maigre. 

Put into a large frying-pan, with about three- 
quarters of a pound of butter, five large carrots, four 
onions, three heads of celery, four shalots ; all the fore- 
going to be cut in slices. One head of garlic (better 
omitted here), three cloves, two bay leaves, one sprig 
of thyme, twelve sprigs of parsley. Lightly fry them 
till they acquire a reddish colour. Add a bottle of 
dry Sauterne, and eight pints of water ; boil, skim, 
and then add one ounce and a half of salt, and two 



Digitized by 



Google 



198 Food and Feeding. 

pinches of mignonette pepper. Put in a stewpan six 
or seven pounds of gurnets cut into pieces ; next add 
the bones of six whiting, keeping the fillets for clari- 
fying. Let it simmer for two hours on the side of 
the fire. When it is finished, strain through a cloth. 
Pound the fillets of whiting with two whites of eggs ; 
clarify the consomnti of fish with the whites of egg 
and fillets of whiting. The vegetables must be suffi- 
ciently fried to give the consommi a light tint (Op. 
cit., p. 348). 

The next, a simpler receipt, can be recommended, 
An English ^^^^^ numerous trials, as an excellent 
receipt. family fish soup. 

Put three ounces of butter into a stewpan ; add two 

carrots sliced ; one onion and a shalot, in thin slices ; 

then cloves, a little thyme, and some parsley. Fry 

them gently until of a reddish tint ; then add three 

or four pints of cold water. Let it boil, skimming 

occasionally. Then add a small fresh haddock, bones 

and all, cut up into pieces, and the head and bones of 

three whitings, setting aside the fillets. A cod's head, 

or that of a turbot, or the fresh bones, head, and fins 

of two large soles, the fillets of which are required 

for another dish, may take the place of 
Fish soup. 

the foregoing, or be cut in pieces and 

added thereto, according to the quantity required. 

Add some salt and a little pepper. Let all simmer 

together for two hours gently, at the comer of the 

fire ; take out the bones and pass all the rest through 

a coarse strainer. Divide the fillets of whiting into 



Digitized by 



Google 



Fish Soups Excellent. 199 

two or three small portions each, boil for a few 
minutes in some of the stock, add a little fresh green 
chervil and parsley chopped, not too finely, and serve 
all together in a tureen. 

If the soup is preferred somewhat thicker in body 
than this receipt produces, let it be made xo thicken 
so by adding some farinaceous matter in **• 
small quantity, as crime du riZy or, if preferred, a table- 
spoonful of white roux (that is, a little flour well 
mixed with butter in a stewpan over the fire, cooked, 
but not allowed to brown) ; either addition is un- 
doubtedly an improvement. 

It is, in my opinion, undesirable to clarify fish 
soups ; if other garnish is desired, qtienelles xo garnish 
of whiting may be substituted for the **• 
fillets ; and some of them may have a little coral 
(spawn of the lobster) added to furnish flavour and 
colour. A further change may be made by adding 
fillets of other fish, or a few shell-fish, and a few small 
balls of seasoning, similar to that used for veal and 
poultry. 

To make a bouillabaisse in the Marseillaise fashion,* 

take three or four pounds of fish, 

whiting, sole, small haddock, red mullet, receipt for 

« .« • « • . .• • bouillabaisse, 

and, foUowmg the mstructions given ^^ 

strictly throughout, a very small conger eel or a 

portion of one. All these are to be cleaned, cut in 

slices, and their bones removed ; two dozen of mussels 

to be added. The receipt in question is as follows : — 

• Referred to at p. 146. 



Digitized by 



Google 



200 Food and Feeding. 

Put into a stewpan two onions sliced, two tomatoes 
peeled, a carrot sliced ; then, in a coarse net bag, the 
following : two bay leaves, two slices of lemon, half 
the zest of a Seville orange, two cloves, a little thyme, 
several sprigs of parsley, a clove of garlic, two red 
capsicums cut, and a little saffron ; add salt and 
pepper, and a little pimento. Place the pieces of fish 
over these, pour in six tablespoonfuls of olive oil ; 
add three pints of water, with two or three glasses 
of white French wine ; cover, and let all boil well 
together for half an hour. The whiting, however, 
should be put in only a quarter of an hour before 
finishing. Serve the whole in a soup tureen with 
slices of toasted bread apart ; or place them in the 
tureen before filling. 

The following receipt is offered for an economical 
dish, or fish stew, suitable for a working man's 
family : — 

Take three or four pounds of hake, ling, skate, or 

haddock, and a pound of "cuttings or 

man's fish trimmings," which are the best part of 
stew* 

the fish for stock making. Remove all 

the fish from the bones, break up or pound the latter, 
and set aside with any portion of head there may 
be, and the cuttings. Put into a saucepan, over the 
fire, two ounces of lard and two or three onions 
sliced, and let them fry until brown ; then add two 
quarts of water and all the pounded bones and trim- 
mings, some parsley or other green herbs, pepper 
and salt. Let the whole simmer for three hours. 



Digitized by 



Google 



stews of Fish. 201 

adding the amount of water lost by evaporation. 
Strain out the bones, bits of skin, etc., add the fish 
in pieces, and boil gently ten or fifteen minutes. 
Thicken with sufficient flour mixed smoothly with a 
small portion of stock, and added before finishing. 
In order to make the dish complete and substantial, 
a few small suet dumplings should be well boiled 
and put into the tureen. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER X. 

Milk, an example of a natural "complete" food— That of the 
cow is its type — Its use as food almost universal — Essen- 
tially an animal food — Most important that it should be 
pure and uncontaminated — Being very susceptible of injury, 
in distribution and otherwise, and thus becomes a fertile 
source of disease — Many epidemics of fever, etc., caused by 
the milk trade— Tuberculous milk— Analysis, and nutritive 
value — Milk essentially food for the young growing animal 
— Whey — Koumiss — Strict sanitary measures employed to 
ensure the purity and wholesomeness of milk — Prudence 
requires it to be generally regarded as a raw product, to be 
taken only after boiling, especially by travellers abroad. 

The term "complete," as we have seen in the 
fourth chapter, is employed to denote that the food 
so designated contains all the elements necessary to 
the support of the body, and to the activity of its 
functions. Most commonly, such nourishment is a 
compound of two or more animal or vegetable sub- 
stances, combined in order to afford the various 
elements necessary to meet all the demands of 
Milk is the animal life. But there is a notable 
type of a example of a single animal product, 

foodprovided perhaps the best which can be offered 
^ °* ^ as a complete food ; one prepared by 
nature, furnished in great abundance, and which we 



Digitized by 



Google 



Importance of Pure Supply. 203 

are all well acquainted with, namely, milk. It is a 
product which slightly varies in different species of 
the mammalian family. That form which we are 
most familiar with is the milk of the cow, and it 
may be taken as the type. It constitutes so large 
and so valuable a part of the food of man in temperate 
climates, that some account of it is desirable here, 
particularly as the subject is rapidly growing in 
interest and importance, and as the popular know- 
ledge respecting it is very imperfect. 

I have said that the subject of milk is growing in 
importance ; this is true on the following Exceedingly 
grounds. First, because it is essential S^**"" 
to the well-being of young children to P*^© supply* 
have milk which is produced of excellent quality 
at its source ; and secondly, it is equally necessary 
that it should not be adulterated, or otherwise injured 
in the processes of transit and distribution. Mean- 
time, as our population grows more dense, sources 
of contamination increase, and the task of obtaining 
an absolutely pure supply is more difficult. Very 
much more is contained in these simple statements 
than is at first discerned by the popular eye. 

Before making further comments thereupon, let us 
recall the fact that, excepting only the article of 
wheaten bread, milk is perhaps the most universally 
employed food in this country. And I because 
am not quite sure that the exception f7|^|^y* 
made above is correctly stated to be so, consumer. 
Every man, woman, and child in the kingdom, 



Digitized by 



Google 



204 Food and Feeding. 

with few exceptions, consumes milk in some form 
at least once or twice daily ; while for the youngest 
part of the community, during the most critical stage 
of early growth, milk forms the chief and the best 
source of nourishment. Now it is to be remembered 
in connection with these striking facts, that milk is 
a complex animal food, and one which so rapidly 
. decomposes, that in hot weather a few 

poses hours suffice to injure it materially, 

^P* y> Moreover, it is extremely liable to con- 

tamination if exposed to impure atmospheric in- 
fluences, etc. But the most serious danger connected 
and is very with milk as food is associated with the 
become ^^^^ daily process of distribution neces- 

tainted ; sary in order to convey the product from 

the cow to the consumer. No doubt that water is 
wilfully added in some small quantity to a large 
proportion of the supply in order to cheapen it ; but 
where this is not done, all the vessels employed in 
dairy operations are more or less carefully and com- 
pletely washed twice a day. It is this 
to transmit ^ ^ ^ 

theg:erms contact with water, employed by no 
o isease, means always, as it ought to be, at the 
boiling point, which constitutes the milk trade a 
ready and unceasing agency for the spread of three 
or four forms of disease among the population. It 
is only within the last few years that we have become 
aware that one of the principal channels by which 
typhoid fever, scarlet fever, and diphtheria are pro- 
pagated, is the agency which conveys the daily milk 



Digitized by 



Google 



Milk often transmits Disease. 205 

from the cow to every house in the kingdom. Water 

which contains some admixture of sewage . • ._^ 

by aamizture 
matter is liable to become contaminated with sewage 

by the excreta of persons suffering from 
infectious disease ; and thus, in its very employment 
for cleansing milk vessels, the seeds of disease may be 
deposited in a single milk can, from which twenty 
families, say, are supplied. It is foolish, or worse, 
to ignore the presence of this and similar sources of 
danger to the community, resulting from the rapid 
increase of population, or to affect that it is unwise 
to be sensitive concerning the presence of dangers to 
health in the daily routine of the household, seeing 
that their discovery and removal may render life 
there more enjoyable and secure. 

Had such counsel been listened to by our fore- 
fathers, the mortality from fever might Milk has 
still be in this country what it was forty ^^^^n^te^ 
years ago ; moreover, we know that the typhoid, 
cause now in question, like every other cause of fever, 
is a removable one, if reasonable precautions are 
taken. It was greatly due to the late Dr. Murchison, 
and to the late Mr. Ernest Hart, who more than any 

one studied this subject exhaustively, . 

A well* 
that the great epidemic of typhoid fever known 

in the parish of Marylebone, in 1873, ^^"**^*^^°* 
was traced to a single case at a country farm which 
supplied milk to a dairy in that parish ; directly oc- 
casioning no less than two hundred and eighteen 
cases of fever among the customers of that dairy, of 



Digitized by 



Google 



2o6 Food and Feeding. 

whom twenty-six died. From these a vast number 
of other cases arose, how many could never by any 
inquiry be correctly estimated. 

During the succeeding ten years no less than 
eighty-one (separate) epidemics were similarly traced 
in various parts of this country to milk distribution.* 

There is another source of disease associated with 
Tuberculous the use of milk, besides the contamina- 
^*^^ tion described, arising from a constitu- 

tional malady to which the cow is subject, namely, 
tuberculosis. When this is present, the disease is liable 
to be communicated from a characteristic ulceration 
affecting the udder to the milk itself, rendering it 
highly dangerous to the consumer. So important is 
this fact, that I shall but quote the words of a high 
authority regarding the sole precaution which can 
render the consumer safe from infection, namely, 
" As regards milk, tuberculous infection is so readily 
destroyed by boiling that this ought to be done as a 
precautionary measure by every householder." t Let 
me add that for many years, in travelling, whether in 

* See an admirable and very concise account of the subject 
in a paper read at a meeting of the Social Science Congress, at 
Huddersfield, October, 1883, by Mr. Ernest Hart, and entitled, 
" Is it desirable to take any, and what, further measures to pre- 
vent the spread of Zymotic Diseases through the Milk Supply of 
our Towns ? ^ London : Smith, Elder & Co. 

t "A System of Medicine," edited by J. Clifford Allbutt, 
M.A., M.D., etc. (Macmillan, 1897), vol. ii., article " Tuber- 
culosis," by Sidney Martin, M.D., F.R.S., etc., Professor of 
Pathology in University College, London, etc. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Constituents of Milk. 



207 



this country or abroad, I never take raw milk, but 
invariably pursue the course recommended at p. 212. 

The foregoing brief statements suffice to show the 
importance of the dairy and its products in con- 
nection with the subject of food, even when considered 
apart from the question of their dietetic Composition 
value. I shall next proceed to describe o^«"^ 
the composition and characteristics of good milk, 
adding some remarks on its use as diet, and then 
indicate the practical mode in which those who are 
interested in obtaining it unadulterated and uncon- 
taminated may obtain their object 

Of good cow's milk, nearly one seventh part by 
weight is solid matter, the remainder is 
water. 

Of this seventh part, rather more than a third is 
" lactose," or milk-sugar ; rather less than a third is 
"casein," the basis of cheese; rather more than a 
fourth IS " milk-fat," or cream ; the small remainder 
being salts or mineral matter. The foregoing propor- 
tions are sufficiently correct for ordinary purposes, 
and are easily remembered. A more exact analysis 
IS given here of the proportions in 100 parts of milk 
by weight 

Water 86-5 



The solids. 



Solids — Milk-fat, or cream 

Casein, or albuminoid 
Milk-sugar, or lactose 
Salts . 



3'9 
4-2 
4-6 
0-8 



13-5 



lOO'O 



Digitized by 



Google 



2o8 Food and Feeding. 

The specific gravity is generally about 1030 to 

Specific ^033, at 60° Fahr. ; but specific gravity 

gravity. alone cannot be regarded as an exact 

test of quality, since the quantity of cream varies 

^ . , with different specimens : and as cream 

Considera- ^ ' 

tion in is of lighter specific gravity than milk, 

a specimen of the latter, which is ex- 
tremely rich in cream, other ingredients being the 
same, will weigh lighter than one which is deficient 
Amount of in cream. But that a sample of milk 
mil^Mure^f^ exceptionally rich in cream should be 
value. offered for sale, although hypothetically 

possible, must be regarded as practically impossible 
in the last degree. The nutritive value of milk 
corresponds, of course, with the aggregate amount 
of all the solids contained, and for all purposes 
of the consumer, the specific gravity corresponds 
with that amount, the figure rising as the solids are 
augmented. 

The specific gravity of unadulterated milk furnished 
by different healthy cows maybe regarded as ranging 
between 1027 and 1035. But the mixed product of 
several such cows equals at least 1030 or 103 1. If 
the milk furnished by any dealer is persistently below 
1030, there is ground for complaint on the part of the 
customer ; and I think it may be said that any metro- 
politan dairy of repute will furnish a uniform supply 
of milk decidedly above 1030. Nevertheless, there is 
a large quantity sold by the small dealers to the poor, 
of which the specific gravity is no more than 1025 or 



Digitized by 



Google 



Analysis of Milk. 209 

1026. Nothing, however, is easier than to ascertain the 

real value of any sample which the purchaser desires 

to test. A lactometer may be bought useofthe 

for 2s, 6d, : it is only necessary to float lactometer. 

it in a jug of milk, and the figure on its scale, which 

is level with the surface of the milk, is the specific 

gravity ; the temperature should be about 60® Fahr. 

Where an exact analysis is required, as, for example, 

to determine the question of fining a . 

Amount of 
fraudulent dealer, the value of the solids must 

sample has to be found, by ascertaining tifequeSdon 

the amount of solids present, apart from ?/ adultera- 

^ ^ tion by water, 

the cream, and estimating the latter 

separately. 

The Society of Public Analysts requires a minimum 

of *' nine per cent of solids, not fat : " . 

^ ' ' Amount 

and any sample which does not reach of solids 
that amount has almost invariably been °®^*^®"y* 
adulterated with water, and the seller of it is liable 
to a fine. But "nine per cent." is a low standard 
determined on to avoid the infliction of hardship 
on any small dealer who may have been supplied 
from the country with a genuine, though exceptionally 
poor milk, of which the solids did not exceed nine 
per cent. ; and it may probably yet be altered. Hence, 
vast quantities of milk which are sold every day at 
that standard, contain a good deal of added water. 
The standard of the best metropolitan dairies, whose 
interest it is to supply unadulterated milk, is always 
higher. 



Digitized by 



Google 




210 Food and Feeding. 

Milk is essentially the food of the growing animal. 

Milk ia the Supplied by nature for the rapid de- 

^^^ velopment of the young calf, it is, with 

»ni««l«- a little modification, admirably adapted 

for our young children. It is excellent food, too, 

for some adults; by no means for alL Those who 

take much exercise, or follow laborious occupations, 

may make it a useful portion of their dietary. It is 

rarely suitable for sedentary persons, or for those who 

Not neces- have reached the latter stage of life when 

sStablc^''^ the powers diminish, and the habits be- 

the adult come less active than heretofore. As a 

drink at meal time, it is for the most part undesirable ; 

for liquids taken with solid food need not be nutritious, 

indeed, are better not to be so : they are rather required 

to dilute and dissolve the latter, nutritive material 

being for the most part abundantly supplied by the 

solid constituents of a meal. 

Milk forms a more suitable form of drink when the 

fat has been removed, when, in short, it 

has been skimmed. If the casein is also 

taken out, as in cheese-making, the whey, which now 

contains little besides the sugar and the salts, is a 

very wholesome beverage, when fresh. Milk may 

be fermented also, and an> agreeable light effervescing 

drink results, known as Koumiss, and 
Koumiss. 

largely used in Russian Tartary, where 

it is made chiefly from the milk of the mare, which 

slightly differs from that of the cow. The latter, 

however, is now treated here in the same way, and 



Digitized by 



Google 



Milk as Diet. Precautions, 211 

IS in no respect inferior ; it is widely recognized as 
useful in some chronic complaints^ and has been 
more or less successful. 

In order to ensure unadulterated and uncontami- 
nated milk, it is necessary to adopt 
habitually certain precautions, or the to ensure 
probability of obtaining that which is P^"'^' 
impure at some time or another, during the long 
array of chances which life affords, is not inconsider- 
able. This fact makes it desirable that the milk trade 
should be subjected to official sanitary supervision. 
For the present the following hints for guidance may 
be useful : — 

First In country districts, where the consumer is 

commonly supplied direct from the farm, ^ , 

it should be ascertained that the dairy the dairy 

is completely detached from all the *""* 

drains of the house and yards, and that the well 

used for dairy washing should be uncontaminated 

by sewage. It should be an absolute ^ . 

DairvTessels 
rule that all vessels are scalded once a and boilins^ 

day at least with boiling water. ^^ ' 

Secondly. When in such districts infectious disease 

occurs at the dairy farm, whether in the 

dwelling house or in the cowsheds, no be used when 

milk should be distributed on any pre- ^^e"^ 

text, until the sources of infection have occurs at the 

dairy farm, 
disappeared. 

Thirdly. When doubt exists as to the source of 

milk, as during a fever epidemic, and no milk 



Digitized by 



Google 



212 Food and Feeding. 

absolutely beyond suspicion is to be had, it should 

be well boiled before it is used as food, by which 

process it is rendered safe. Some of those who 

have most studied the subject, are so impressed 

with its importance, and especially in relation to the 

Milk ob- interests of the family, as to advise that 

tained from all milk should be thoroughly boiled 

doubtful 

sources to before it is consumed. They believe 

be bo ed. ^^^ j^ j^ ^j^^ ^^ regard milk as a raw 

food, and undesirable, on grounds above stated, for 
human consumption, until it has been cooked. Con- 
tinental travellers will do well to take it in this form, 
and as it is always thus served for cafi-au-lait abroad, 
there is no difficulty in obtaining it at any time. 

Fourthly. In all large towns and in the metropolis. 
Obtain milk milk should be obtained solely from 
tefStore of some extensive organization of high re- 
high repute, pute, well known to have made it an 
absolute principle of its business to distribute milk 
solely from sources which are held under vigilant 
supervision by a competent person. Moreover, every 
can of milk received from the country for distribution 
should be examined for quality, before being delivered 
to the public. This is a mode of proceeding which is 
now thoroughly understood and practised, at least in 
London ; and there is no real difficulty in adopting 
such precautions, as well as others not less important, 
as has been practically proved for several years, at 
least by one great institution, on a large scale, in this 
metropolis. For the present, it is incumbent on every 



Digitized by 



Google 



Described in Dealing with it. 213 

housekeeper who regards the health of his family, to 
exercise caution after the manner here indicated. At 
no distant period, all country dairies from whence 
milk is sent away for sale, as well as the public milk- 
shops held by dealers in towns, will, without doubt, 
be subject to official inspection, and be regulated by 
sanitary enactments. In the accomplishment of this 
ceaseless task of milk distribution, almost nothing 
can be done by any single individual to avert the 
dangers to which carelessness and misfortune expose 
him ; while well-devised arrangements of the nature 
suggested may render him almost secure. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER XL 

The combination of dishes to form a meal — ^Three typical 
systems of arranging daily meals — The French or Conti- 
nental — ^The provincial (Great Britain)-— That of town life 
(London) — Characteristics of each meal — Breakfast — Lunch 
— Dinner, of two kinds : the family meals, the dinner of 
invitation — The rationale of the initial soup — Plan of dishes 
to follow discussed— //i^rj-^'owz/r^j— More in vogue on the 
Continent than in this country — Most of all in Russia — As 
a dietetic habit, it is undesirable for reasons given. 

The art of combining dishes to form a meal now 
demands our consideration. The occupations of man 
in a civilized state, no less than the natural suggestions 
•! eals ^^ ^'^ appetite, require stated and regular 
should be times for feeding. But the number of 

regular. these set apart in the twenty-four hours 

differs considerably among different races, and also 
among different classes of society. It must suffice 
for us to consider the subject only so far as the limits 
of Europe are concerned. Taking a general view of 
this subject, it may be said that there are three 
principal systems to which all varieties of habit may 
be reduced. From an English point of view these 
may be regarded as — 



Digitized by 



Google 



Daily System regarding Meals. 215 

1. The French system of two chief meals a day ; 
adopted by other Continental nations. Number 

2. The system of provincial life (Great Jlffj!^^ 
Britain) of four meals, with which races. 

the habits of Holland and Northern S^eeS*"" 

Germany are more or less analogous. systems. 

3. The system of town life, of which London is 
the type, or three meals a day. 

1. In the French system, the slight refreshment 
served in the early morning, in the form 

of coffee or chocolate, with a rusk or a French 
roll of bread, does not amount to a meal. ^-^ "' 
It is only a dish, and that a light one, and not a 
combination of dishes, which is then taken. At or 
about noon a substantial meal, the dijeAner, is served; 
and at six or seven o'clock, an ample dinner. Such 
is the two-meal system, and it appears to answer well 
throughout the West and South of Europe. 

2. What I have termed the provincial system con- 
sists of a substantial breakfast at eight _ y. 
or nine, a dinner at one or two, a light provincial 
tea about five, and a supper at nine or ^^ ^ 
ten. It is this which is popular throughout our own 
provincial districts, and also among middle-class 
society of our northern districts throughout both town 
and country. As already indicated, the usages of the 

Dutch and of their immediate neighbours 

r , resembles 

on the sea-coast, as well as of the great that of 

German nation, correspond more to this ®"°*"y- 
than to the first-named system. The number of 



Digitized by 



Google 



2i6 Food and Feeding. 

meals may be regarded as the same, although not 
taken at the hours named above ; coffee, and not tea, 
being taken morning and afternoon. 

3. The prevailing system of London, and of the 

numerous English families throughout 
London the country, whose habits are formed 

y. from partial residence in town, or by 

more or less intimate acquaintance with town life, is 
that of three meals daily. In general terms the 
breakfast takes place between eight and ten, the 
lunch about two, the dinner from seven to half-past 
eight, or even later. 

In all cases each meal has its own specific character. 
B eakf t Thus, in this country, breakfast is the 
and its cha- most irregular in its service, and least of 

all demands general and intimate co- 
herence of the party assembled. Individual interests 
concerned in the arrival of the letter-bag, in the 
morning news, in plans for the day, in cares of coming 
business, etc., are respected. Provision for acknow- 
ledged dietetic peculiarities on the part of individuals 
is not forgotten, punctual attendance at the hour 
named is not required, and every one comes or goes 
as he pleases. 

At lunch the assembly is still somewhat uncertain. 

Thus some members of the family are 

absent without remark ; intimate friends 
may appear without special invitation ; while those 
less intimate can be asked with small ceremony. 
Occupations of pleasure or of business still press for 



Digitized by 



Google 



Breakfast^ Lunch^ Dinner. 217 

pursuit during the afternoon, and the meal for such 
may not be too substantial. It should suffice amply 
to support activity ; it should never be so consider- 
able as to impair it Here may be just named an 
invention of comparatively recent date, Afternoon 
afternoon tea, which, however, cannot *®*' 
be reckoned as a meal. In reality, a pleasant excuse 
to mark the hour for friendly gossip with a hostess 
"at home," it may be the occasion of undesirable 
habits, if enough solid food is eaten to impair digestion 
and "spoil" the coming dinner. Nothing can be 
more undesirable at this hour than sweet and rich 
cake, hot buttered toast or muffins; nevertheless 
they are frequently offered. But d propos of tea, many 
of us might with advantage avoid the sugar and the 
cream, which at this hour interfere with the stomach 
far more than does the infusion itself, and add in their 
place a delicate slice of lemon neither thicker nor 
larger than a half-crown, the flavour of which — 
fragrant peel and a hint of acid— combines with the 
aroma of good tea, without in the least disguising or 
flattening it as the conventional additions do. It 
would be almost as rational to add cream and sugar 
to wine, as to fine and delicately flavoured tea. 
Occasionally tea is served with lemon in this country, 
but it is mostly added in excess. A very slight 
shaving, which contains both peel and pulp, is ample 
for an ordinary cup. 

The last meal of the three, dinner, has characters 
wholly different from the preceding. The prime 



Digitized by 



Google 



2i8 Food and Feeding. 

occupations of the day are over ; the guests are 

_. known and numbered : the sentiment is 

Dinner; 

one of reunion after the dispersion of the 

day — of relaxation after its labours, sports, or other 

active pleasures. Whatever economy of time may 

have been necessary in relation to the foregoing 

meals, all trace of hurry should disappear at dinner. 

A like feeling makes the supper of the " provincial " 

system a similarly easy and enjoyable meal. And all 

this is equally true of dinner, whether it unites the 

family only, or brings an addition of guests. General 

conversation : the events and personal incidents of the 

day, the current topics of the hour, are discussed in a 

light spirit, such as is compatible with proper attention 

to the dishes provided. All that follows late dinner 

should for the most part be amusement — it may be 

at the theatre, an evening party, or a quiet evening at 

the most home. There should be ample time, 

important, however, for every coming engagement, 

and security for some intervening rest for digestion. 

Dinner, then, is the only meal which — as the greater 

^ , .. includes the less — need be discussed in 

to be dis- 
cussed at the third part of our subject, which 

engtn. claims to treat of custom and art in 

combining dishes to form a repast With the re- 
quirements and under the circumstances just speci- 
fied, it should not be a heavy meal, but it should be 
sufficing. No one after dinner should feel complete 
satiety or repletion, with a sense of repugnance at the 
idea of eating more ; but all should still enjoy the 



Digitized by 



Google 



Dinners : Family and Invitation. 219 

conviction that a good meal furnishes delightful and 
refreshing occupation. 

Dinners are of two kinds — the ordinary meal of the 
family, and the dinner to which guests Dinners of 
are invited. There is a third dinner in ^^ ^°°^' 
this country, of common — too common — occurrence, 
viz. the public dinner, which is essentially a British 
institution, and cannot be passed by in silence. 

The late dinner should never include children. It 
is a meal which is in every way unsuited Th^ fanuly 
to them ; and they are quite unfitted to dinner, 
take part in its functions; besides, the four-meal 
system is better adapted to their requirements of 
growth and digestion in early life. A family dinner 
may usually consist of a soup, fish, a substantial and 
a light entriey a roast and a sweet ; the light entrie 
may even be omitted. If, however, the meal is 
required to be more substantial, a joint may be 
served in addition after the fish ; but this should be 
very rarely necessary. A special dish of vegetables 
may be advantageously placed before or after the 
roast, according to circumstances ; and supplementary 
vegetables should be always at hand. Cheese or a 
light savoury trifle may complete the menu. 

The rationale of the initial soup has often been 
discussed : some regard it as calculated why soup is 
to diminish digestive power, on the the first cfish. 
theory that so much fluid taken at first dilutes the 
gastric juices. But there appears to be no foun- 
dation for this belief: a clear soup, or the fluid 



Digitized by 



Google 



220 Food and Feeding. 

constituents of a purie^ disappear almost immediately 
after entering the stomach, being absorbed by the 
proper vessels, and in no way interfere with the 
gastric juice which is stored in its appropriate cells 
ready for action. The habit of commencing dinner 
with soup has without doubt its origin in the fact 
that aliment in this fluid form — in fact, ready digested 
— soon enters the blood and rapidly refreshes the 
hungry man, who, after a considerable fast and much 
activity, often sits down with a sense of exhaustion 
to commence his principal meal. In two or three 
minutes after taking a plate of good warm consommiy 
the feeling of exhaustion disappears, and irritability 
gives way to the gradually rising sense of good- 
fellowship with the circle. Some persons are accus- 
tomed to allay exhaustion by taking a glass of sherry 
before food — a gastronomic no less than a physio- 
logical blunder, since it overstimulates and tends to 
injure an empty stomach, while it depraves the 
palate. On the other hand, the soup introduces at 
once into the system a small instalment of ready- 
digested food, and saves the period of time which, in 
the absence of soup, must be spent by the stomach 
in deriving some portion of nutriment from solid 
aliment; and thus the organ of digestion itself is 
rapidly strengthened for its forthcoming duties. 
Few persons will be found to dispute the second 

place in order to fish, although this 
Next, fish. 

arrangement is in some quarters an 

open question : its discussion, however, can scarcely. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Order of Dishes served, 221 

be regarded as within the limit of our space. The 

third dish should consist of the chief ^, 

The most 
meat, the joint, if desired ; and this is substantial 

undoubtedly the place for it, if a sub- ^^ ' 
stantial meal is required. The chief nutritious supply 
being thus afforded to the system, more delicate 
dishes, eaten in smaller quantity, and esteemed for 
their special qualities of flavour, aroma, or texture, 
should follow in an order which makes one comple- 
mentary of or introductory to the next Such, for 
example, as an entrie of cutlets, poultry, 
or sweetbread, etc., well garnished, are ' 

appropriate, and by many will be found preferable. 
Next, the well-roasted bird — of game or 
poultry — accompanied pr followed by ' 

salad ; and after this, or, if preferred, before the roast, 
a dish of choice vegetables, worthy to the "le- 
be served alone ; e,g. asparagus, seakale, fi:*""© ; " 
early peas, globe artichokes, etc. Then one light 
simple sweet, for those who take it, and a slight 
savoury biscuit, a grilled mushroom or sweet and 
a morsel of cheese completes the repast savoury. 
Such a meal contains within its limits all that can 
be desired for daily enjoyment and use. If well 
and liberally served, it is complete in every sense 
of the word. Dessert and its extent is a matter 
of individual taste ; of wines, coffee, and liqueurs 
I shall speak hereafter. 

A word about hors-cPxuvres. It is well known 
that the custom exists to a very wide extent among 



Digitized by 



Google 



222 Food and Feeding. 

Continental nations of commencing either midday 

"Hors- cUjeAner or dinner by eating small 

d'ceuvrca;" portions of cold pickled fish, of raw 

vegetables, of highly flavoured sausage thinly sliced, 

etc., to serve, it is said, as a whet to appetite. This 

custom reaches its highest development in the za- 

,, ktiska of the Russian, which, consisting 

kuska"of of numerous delicacies of the kind 

the Russians* . « • • « ^ « 

mentioned, is sometimes to be found 

occupying a table in an ante-room to be passed 
between the drawing-room and dining-room ; or, and 
more commonly, spread on the sideboard of the 
latter. The Russian eats a little from three or four 
dishes at least, and '' qualifies " with a glass of strong 
grain spirit {vodka) or of some liqueur, before taking 
his place at the table. Among these savoury pre- 
liminaries may often be found caviare 
Caviare* 

in its fresh state, grey, pearly, succulent, 

and delicate, of which most of the caviare found 
in this country is but as the shadow to the substance. 
I have no hesitation in saying, after much con- 
sideration of the practice of thus com- 
Remarks 
on "hors- mencing a meal, that there is no good 

ceuvres ; warrant for it on the part of individuals 
endowed with fairly good appetite and digestion. 
For them, both pickled food and spirit are un- 
desirable, at any rate, on an empty stomach. And 
if appetite and digestion are wanting, the stimulant 
of the hors-d'oeuvres is not only unnatural but 
decidedly prejudicial. Rational means to regain 



Digitized by 



Google 



Hors-d'oeuvres, ''Zakuska^ Oysters. 223 

appetite are indicated in such circumstances. And 
the hors'd^osuvreSy although frequent attempts, from 
sheer force of imitation, to transplant them here 
are made, happily do not, as far as I have observed, 
thrive on our soil. They have been introduced here 
chiefly, I think, because their presence being de- 
manded by foreign gastronomic taste, is supposed 
to be therefore necessarily correct But the active 
exercise and athletic habits of the Englishman, his 
activity of body and mind in commercial pursuits, 
all tend to bring him to the dinner-table wanting 
food rather than appetite, and in no mind to ask 
for " whets *' to increase it Among idle their value 
men, whose heavy lunch, liberally accom- often^*^**^ 
panied with wine and not followed by questionable, 
exercise, has barely disappeared from the stomach 
at the hour of dinner, a piquant prelude as stimulus 
of appetite is resorted to. Hence the original 
invention of hors-d' ceuvres ; and their appearance 
in a very much slighter and more delicate form than 
that which has been described, still to be observed 
in connection with the chief repasts of the Latin 
races. The one plate which heralds dinner, and is 
indigenous to our country, is also one of its own 

best products — the oyster. But this is 

^/vsters. 
scarcely a hors-d* ceuvre. In itself a 

single service of exquisite quality, served with 

attendant graces of mild and delicate vinegar or lemon 

juice, brown bread and butter, and a glass of light 

chablis for those who take it, the half-dozen natives 



Digitized by 



Google 



224 Food and Feeding. 

occupying the hollow shells hold rank of a very 
different kind to that of the miscellaneous assort- 
ment of tit-bits alluded to. Oysters are, in fact, the 
first dish of dinner and not its precursor ; the preface, 
and not the needless and obtrusive advertisement. 
And this brings us to the dinner of invitation. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER XII. . 

Dinners of imitation — Two kinds : small and select ; large but 
complete — The old pretentious style described — Scheme of 
a rational dinner-party — Priority in the service of various 
courses or dishes discussed — iJeSsert — The quart d^heure 
after dinner — Turtle and fish dinners — Curry — Sketch for a 
small dinner. 

And of this entertainment, the dinner of invitation, 

there are two very distinct kinds. First, _, j. i.. ^ 
^ ' Two distinct 

there is the little dinner of six or eight types of 

r 11 1 * /• 1 . ** dinners." 

guests, carefully selected for their own 

specific qualities, and combined with judgment to 

obtain a harmonious and successful result. The 

ingredients of a small party, like the The small 

ingredients of a dish, must be well ^^ select, 

chosen to make it "complete." Such are the first 

conditions to be attained in order to achieve the 

highest perfection in dining. Secondly, and the 

there is the dinner of society, which is society^ 

necessarily large ; the number of guests large. 

varying from twelve to twenty-four. 

The characteristics of the first dinner are^-comfort, 

excellence, simplicity, and good taste. Those of the 

second are — the conventional standard of quality, 

P 



Digitized by 



Google 



226 Food and Feeding. 

some profusion of supply, suitable display in orna- 
ment and service. 

It must be admitted that, with the large circle of 
acquaintances so commonly regarded as essential to 
existence in modern life, large dinners only enable 
us to repay our dining debts, and exercise the hospi- 
Some tality which position demands. With 

drawbacks a Strong preference, then, for the little 

attaching; to 

the large dinners, it must be admitted that the 

""^^^ ' larger banquet is a necessary institution ; 

and, therefore, we have only to consider now how 

to make the best of it. 

No doubt the large dinner has greatly improved of 

^ late ; but it has by no means universally 

improTed of arrived at perfection. Only a few years 
late 

ago excellence in quality and good taste 

in cuisine were often sacrificed in the endeavour to 
make a profuse display. Hence, abundance without 
reason, and combinations without judgment, were 
found co-existing with complete indifference to com- 
fort in the matters of draughts, ventilation, tempe- 

j rature, and consumption of time. Who 
What It used ' ^ 

to be not among the diners-out who have passed 

ongago. middle age has not encountered in his 
early days an entertainment with some such pro- 
gramme as the following, one of an order which, it is 
to be hoped, is now quite extinct ? 

Eighteen or twenty guests enter a room adapted 
at most to a dinner of twelve. It is lighted with 
gas, the chief available space being occupied by 



Digitized by 



Google 



Mid-century Dinners. 227 

the table, surrounding which is a narrow lane, barely 
sufficing for the circulation of the ser- crowded- 
vants. Directly — perhaps after oysters — ^*^ service ; 
appear turtle soups, thick and clear. A consommi 
is to be had on demand, but so unexpected a choice 
astonishes the servitor, who brings it after some 
delay, and cold: with it punch. Following, arrive 
the fish — salmon and turbot, one or both, smothered 
in thick lobster sauce: sherry. Four vulgar 
entries promenade the circuit in single pro^"s^<»» 
file, whereof the first was always oyster patties ; after 
which came mutton or lamb cutlets, a vol-au-venty 
etc. : hock and champagne. Three-quarters of an 
hour at least, perhaps an hour, having now elapsed, 
the saddle or haunch of mutton arrives, of which 
gentlemen who have patiently waited adjuncts 
get satisfactory slices, and currant jelly, ^°^^ » 
with cold vegetables or a heavy flabby salad. Then 
come boiled fowls and tongue, or a turkey with solid 
forcemeat; a slice of ham and so on, too sub- 
up to game, followed by hot substantial stantial ; 
pudding, three or four other sweets, including an iced 
pudding ; wines in variety, more or less . 
appropriate ; to be followed by ^Lp&ti de 
foie graSy more salad, biscuits and cheese. Again, 
two ices, and liqueurs. Then an array . . , - 
of decanters, and the first appearance of dessert and 
red wine; a prodigious dessert of all ' 

things in and out of season, and particularly those 
which are out of season, as being the more costly. 



Digitized by 



Google 



228 Food and Feeding. 

General circulation of waiters, handing each dish in 
turn to everybody, under a running fire of negatives, 
a ceremonial of ten or fifteen minutes' duration, to 
J.. say the least. Circulation of decanters, 

and more general rustle of silks, disappearance of 

the ladies ; and first change of seat, pre- 
cisely two hours and a half after originally takitig it 
It may be hoped that a charming companion on 
either side has beguiled and shortened a term which 
otherwise must have been tedious. Now general 
closing up of men to host, and reassembling of 
decanters; age, quality, and vintage of wine dis- 
cussed during consumption thereof. At last coffee, 
which is neither black nor hot Joining the ladies ; 
music by the daughters of the house ; service of gun- 
powder tea, fatal to the coming night's rest if taken in 
a moment of forgetfulness ; and carriages announced. 

This brief sketch, which accurately portrays the 
dining procedure which prevailed during the forties 
and fifties of the present century, is retained here, 
as not without historical interest to the present 
generation. 

Admitted that such an exhibition is impossible 
Enormous now in any reasonable English circle, it 
in^tS^Tf^"**^ nevertheless corresponded too closely in 
years. style with that of the public dinner up 

to a later period — a state of things without excuse. 
A lighter And the large private dinner is often 

repast gtill too long, the menu too pretentious. 

Let me, however, be permitted to record, equally in 



Digitized by 



Google 



Schemes for Select Dinners. 229 

proof of growing taste and as grateful personal duty, 

the vast improvement which has taken Suggestions 

place. The dinner of society has, since Modern 

the earlier editions of this work appeared, dinner. 

been greatly abridged in length and improved by the 

substitution of lighter and more delicate dishes for 

the solid meats of the last generation. At the same 

time, a menu^ suitable for a large party, must be 

framed so as to offer various dishes for choice to 

meet the differing tastes of numerous guests, and it 

must therefore be more comprehensive than that 

supplied to a small one, say of eight or nine guests. 

Let us see how this is to be met. First, 
, ... /v- The soups, 

the soups: it is the custom to offer a 

consomm^^ which ought to- be perfect in clearness, 

colour, and savour, always to be served perfectly 

hot; containing a few vegetables, etc., variously 

treated — doubtless the best commencement, as it is 

the key-note of the dinner ; revealing also, as it does, 

nine times out of ten, the calibre of the cook to whose 

talent the guest is entrusted. But there is mostly 

an alternative of " white soup," and this Remarks on 

is almost always a mistake. Many per- ^^**^ soups. 

sons refuse it, and they are right, containing, as it 

generally does, a considerable proportion of cream — 

an injudicious beginning, when there is much variety 

to follow ; excellent sometimes as one of three or 

four dishes, but dangerous otherwise to the guest 

who has not an exceptionally powerful digestion. 

But suppose that oysters, vinegar, and chablis have 



Digitized by 



Google 



230 Food and Feeding. 

just been swallowed ! A brown purity as of game, 

or one of green vegetable, less frequently met with, 

a "Saint Germain," for example, in early summer 

_ ^ . would be safer and more acceptable. 

The fish. 

Two fish, of course, should always be 

served ; as, for instance, a slice of Severn or Christ- 
church salmon, just arrived from the water, for its 
own sake, and a fillet of white fish, for the sake of 
its sauce and garnish, which should be therefore 
perfect The next dish is, in London, a question 
" Piece de under discussion, viz. the question of 
^cn*tf^**" precedence of an entrie, or of the piice 
at all ? de resistance. The custom was to post- 

pone the appearance of the latter until lighter dishes 
have been despatched or declined. If, however, the 
English joint is required at a meal already com- 
prehensive in the matter of dishes, and taken at a 
late hour, it seems more reasonable to serve it next 
to the fish, when those who demand a slice of meat 
may be expected to have an appropriate appetite, 
which will certainly be impaired, equally by accept- 
ing the entries, or fasting partially without them. 
But nothing so substantial as a joint is now required 
at a dinner of this kind ; an entree of meat, at all 
events, replaces it if wanted ; at most, a little tour- 
7iedos of the fillet of beef, or a noisette of mutton, 
- . , daintily served. Then one or two light 

entrees entries follow, and these must necessarily 

be either in themselves peculiarly tempt- 
ing morsels, or products of culinary skill, offering 



Digitized by 



Google 



Adapted to any Number. t^^^i 

inducement to the palate rather than to an appetite 

which is no longer keen : for example, a delicate 

souffle of pheasant, leveret, or fowl garnished with 

truffles ; while in summer these will ^ 

The roast ; 
naturally be more agreeably served as 

chaudfroids. Then the best roast possible in season 

or choice of two, and a salad ; a first-rate vegetable, 

a slice of really fine ham, to some a most fitting 

accompaniment ; two choice sweets, one of which 

may be iced ; a parmesan souffl^^ a sweets, 

herring-roe on toast, or a morsel of savoury. 

fine barely salted caviare, pale and pearly grey, 

which may be procured in two or three places at 

most in town, will complete the dinner. For dessert, 

which may be ushered in with a couple 

of companion ices of delicate texture, 

the finest fruits in season to gratify both eye and 

palate and for light amusement after ; or simply 

nuts in variety, and dry biscuits ; nothing between 

the two is tolerable, and little more than the latter 

is really wanted ; and for decorative purposes the 

resources of flowers are now unbounded, to say nothing 

of autumnal tints for rich variety in season. But it 

may be admitted that the diminished number of sweet 

entremets strengthens the plea for a supply of delicious 

fruits, rendering the dessert useful and agreeable as 

well as ornamental. 

And now that dessert is over, let me say that I do 

not admit the charge sometimes intimated, although 

delicately, by foreigners, of a too obvious proclivity 



Digitized by 



Google 



232 Food and Feeding. 

to self-indulgence on the part of Englishmen, in per- 

_ ^ ^ mitting the ladies to leave the table 
distom of 

ladies without escort to the drawing-room, 

g. *j»j^g ^jj custom of staying half an 

hour, or even an hour afterwards, to drink wine, 
which is doubtless a remnant of barbarism, has long 
been considered indefensible. The best wines the 
Wine at ^^^^t can supply should appear in appro- 

dessert priate places in the course of dinner, and 

not be reserved, as formerly, until dessert appears. 
And after-dinner drinking should be simply a de- 
mand for a glass or so more of the '70 Port, or of 
the excellent " Mouton," or " Lafite ; " or of that 
perfect " Pommery and Greno," " Moet," " St. Mar- 
ceau,'* or " Perrier Jouet," * which have been known 
to repose this dozen years or more in some snug and 
quiet cellar of the back basement, where goodly stores 
still exist of the vintage of '* '84." For the separation 
A short sUy of the party into two portions for fifteen 
W^lSt*^ or twenty minutes is useful to both, and 
desirable. leads perhaps more completely to a 
general mixture of elements on reunion after than 
is attained by the return of the original pairs together. 
Whether this be so or not, the ladies have a short, 
interval for the interchange of hearsays and ideas 
relative to matters chiefly concerning their special 

♦ Let it be perfectly understood that these brands, undoubtedly 
choice as they are, are named without the slightest intention of 
selecting them for commendation beyond others, and merely as 
illustrating the arrangements suggested in the text. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Dessert, etc. Special Dinners, 233 

interests ; while the men enjoy that indispensable 

finish to a good dinner, an irreproachable cup of 

coffee and a cigarette; and the sooner these 

arrive the better, only let all the fine Bordeaux 

be finished before the perfume of Dubec or of 

Havana scents the air. With the small dinners of 

men it can scarcely too quickly follow the last 

service. 

But marked by a special character are some dinners, 

which may be either small or large in Special 

relation to the number of guests, but dinners. 

which are necessarily limited as regards the variety 

of aliments served. I refer to dinners _, _^, . 

Turtle in 

at which either turtle or fish predomi- various 
nates. In accordance with a principle ' 

already enunciated, a bowl of substantial stock, con- 
taining four or five broad flakes of the gelatinous 
product, often miscalled "fat," which is the chief 
representative of the turtle in the compound, is not 
a judicious prelude to a dinner arranged according 
to the orthodox programme, and offering the usual 
variety. A lover of turtle indulges freely in the soup, 
both thick and clear, making it, in fact, an important 
instalment of his repast ; and he desires, with or 
without some slight interlude, to meet the favourite 
food again in the form of an entrie. After so sub- 
stantial a commencement, the dinner ^ ^ ^ 

and what 
should be completed chiefly by poultry, should 

J -r • J r ^u follow it. 

and game if in season, and for the 

most part by dishes which are grilled or roasted 



Digitized by 



Google 



234 Food and Feeding, 

in contrast to the succulent morsels which have 
preceded. 

The " fish dinner," as a speciality, also an occasional 
The fish departure from daily routine, is accept- 

dinner. able, and gratifies the taste for that 

delicate and pleasant food in considerable variety. 
But if so indulged, very few dishes ought to appear 
subsequently. It is a curious fact that the traditional 
Of the Green- bacon and beans, which appear towards 
wichtypc, the close of a Greenwich whitebait 
dinner, should afford another illustration of unde- 
signed compliance with the natural law referred to 
at the outset, the bacon furnishing complementary 
fat to supply its notable absence in fish. 

The enjoyment of a curry — and when skilfully 

made it is almost universally admitted 
The curry. i r i 

to be one of the most attractive com- 
binations which can be offered to the senses of taste 
and smell — is only possible at a limited repast. 
When freely eaten, very little is acceptable to the 
palate afterwards, exhausted as it is by the pervading 
fragrance of the spice and other adjuncts. Hence 
a curry should form the climax of a short series of 
dishes leading up to it, as an important element in 
a small dinner ; or it may even be presented, in a 
miniature form, a kari mignotiy as an elegant and 
acceptable final savoury morsel at the end of a dinner 
of pretension. But when presented, as it sometimes 
is, among the entries of a first course it is wholly out 
of place. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Small, Quiet Dinners. 235 

Here we may appropriately take a rapid glance 

at the characteristics of the feast where ^ 

otigfgfestions 

the guests are few in number. as to a small 

The small dinner party should be ^' 

seated at a round or oval table, large enough for per- 
sonal comfort, small enough to admit of conversation 
in any direction without effort. The table should of 
course be furnished with taste, but is not to be en- 
cumbered with ornaments, floral or other, capable of 
obstructing sight and sound. A perfect consommi, 
a choice of two fish, a tournedos from Eight 
the fikt^ noisette or fricandeau, followed ^^es ; 
by a chaudfroid, a crime de volatile garnie, a roast 
bird (game, wild duck, quail, plover, or snipe) and 
salad, a choice vegetable, and an iced souffle or 
charlotte ; and in summer a mac^doine of fresh fruits 
in an old china family bowl, if there is one; and 
lastly, a savoury croute, accompanying vegetables, 
with crisp thin toast, and appropriate wines ; — may 
be regarded as furnishing a scheme for such a party 
— or a theme of which the variations are endless.* 

From seven or eight to nine or ten, but 

eig^ht gniests. 
not more than nine or ten guests, can 

thus be brought into close contact; with a larger 

number the party is apt to form two coteries, one 

on each side of the host The number is a good one 

also in relation to the commissariat department — 

eight persons being well supplied by an entrie in 

* For an illustration of this, see a series of menus zX. the end 
of Chapter XIV. 



Digitized by 



Google 



236 Food and Feeding. 

one dish ; while two dishes are necessary for ten or 
o hotti twelve persons. Moreover, one bottle 
supplies of wine divides well in eight ; if, there- 

**^ fore, the host desire to give with the 

roast one glass of particularly fine ripe Gorton or 
Pomard, a single bottle is equal to the supply ; and 
so with any other choice specimen of which a single 
circulation is required ; and of course the rule holds 
equally if the circuit is to be repeated. Dinners of 
all sizes, up to the largest public dinners, are best 
provided for thus, in multiples of eight ; calculations 
for food, wine, and service, are thus easily and 
accurately made and carried out in practice. 

And this leads us to the question — and an im- 
portant one it is — of the wine; to be discussed in 
the next chapter. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER XIII. 

The question of wine with dinner — Remarks on the habitual use 
of alcoholic drinks of any kind — Wine should be taken 
chiefly during dinner, never before, not much, if any, after 
— Should be sound and pure, and without pretence — How 
to attain this — Relation of various wines with certain dishes 
— Cigarettes after dinner — Tobacco suggests coffee, and is 
incompatible with fine wine — ^The supply of water at dinner 
— ^Aerated waters — Foreign mineral waters — Their use at 
home and abroad— Sweet drinks at dinner objectionable. 

I HAVE already said that, among all civilized nations, 
wine in some form has for centuries wine taken 
been highly appreciated as a gastro- from toe 
nomic accompaniment to food. I do immemorial, 
not, for an instant, attempt to deny it this position. 
Whether such employment of it is advantageous 
from a dietetic or physiological point of view as a 
rule of life, is at this moment altogether another 
question. I may not hesitate to say that, after a 
long and wide experience, I am still firmly con- 
vinced that the habitual use of wine, beer, or spirits 
is a physiological error, say, for nine- . ^ 

teen persons out of twenty. In other usenotdis- 
, , - cussed here, 

words, the great majority of the human 

race, at any age or of either sex, will enjoy better 



Digitized by 



Google 



238 Food and Feeding. 

health, both of body and mind, and will live longer, 
without any alcoholic drinks whatever, than with 
habitual indulgence in their use, even although such 
use be what is popularly understood as quite mode- 
Occasional ^^^^- ^^^ ' ^o °o^ ^ver that any par- 
indulgence, ticular harm results from the habit of 
now and then enjoying a glass of really fine pure 
wine — and, rare as this is, I do not think any other 
is worth consuming — just as one may occasionally 
enjoy a particularly choice dish ; neither the one nor 
the other, perhaps, being sufficiently innocuous or 
digestible for frequent, much less for habitual use. 
Then I am disposed to admit that there are some 
Some »airi> persons — in the aggregate not a few — 
lessli^^ who may take small quantities of 
than others. genuine light wine or beer with very 
little appreciable injury. For these persons such 
drinks may be put in the category of luxuries per- 
missible within certain limits or conditions, and of 
such luxuries let tobacco-smoking be regarded as 
another example. No one probably is any better 
The effects for tobacco, although if indulged in 
^ry^^Se ^^^^ moderation, it has, for many, a 
individual. delightfully soothing and tranquillizing 
effect after the endless harassing and worrying 
incidents of a stirring life. Some indulge too freely, 
diminishing both their mental and digestive powers ; 
while others find it absolutely poisonous, and cannot 
inhale even a small quantity of the smoke without 
instantly feeling sick or ill. And some few indulge 



Digitized by 



Google 



Wine and Smoke, Cautions. 239 

the moderate use of tobacco all their lives without 
any evil effects, at all events, that are perceptible to 
themselves or to others. 

Relative to these matters, every man ought to deal 
carefully and faithfully with himself, Each man 
watching rigorously the effects of the t^^^^^\^!^ 
smallest license on his mental and bodily himself, 
states, and boldly denying himself the use of a luxu- 
rious habit if he finds undoubted sign of harm arising 
therefrom. And he must perform the difficult task 
with a profound conviction that his judgment is very 
prone to bias on the side of indulgence, since the 
luxurious habit is so agreeable, and to refrain there- 
from, in relation to himself and to the present opinion 
of society, so difficult Be it remarked, however, that 
the opinion of society is notably and rapidly changing 
relative to the point in question. 

Having premised thus much as to what is abso- 
lutely best, I will now deal, in the spirit 

of compromise, with things as they are ; wine or spirit 
ti.fl * «« ...,. before meals, 

and let it be understood that it is m this 

sense that I deal with the subject. I have only now 

to say, first, that wine, in relation to dinner, should 

be served during the repast; it should never be 

taken, in any form or under any circumstances, 

before, that is, on an empty stomach, and also is not 

desirable after the meal is finished. Regarded from 

a gastronomic point of view alone, nothing should 

appear afterwards except a small glass of cognac 

and coffee. The post-prandial habit of drinking 



Digitized by 



Google 



240 Food and Feeding. 

glass after glass even of the finest growths of the 
Gironde, or of the most mature or mellow shipments 
from Oporto, is doubtless a pleasant, but, in the end, 
for many persons a costly indulgence. 

Secondly, whatever wine is given should be the 
Wine should ™^^^ sound and unsophisticated of its 
be the kind which can be procured. The host 

produce of had far better produce only a bottle or 
the grape, ^^^ ^^ sound bourgeois wine from Bor- 
deaux — and most excellent wine maybe found under 
such a denomination — with no pretence of a mere- 
tricious title, or other worthless finery about it, from 
a list of fictitious blends with pretentious labels 

supplied by an advertising cheap wine 
and he 
honestly cha- house. I could only speak in terms of 

ractenzcd. contempt and disgust, did I not feel 

pity for the deluded victims, of the unscrupulous 

use of the time-honoured and historical titles which 

advertisers shamelessly flaunt on bottles of worthless 

compounds by means of showy labels, in lists and 

pamphlets of portentous length, and by placards 

sown broadcast through the country. So that one 

may buy " Lafite " or " Margaux " — ** Chambertin " or 

" Nuits " — or even " ^^o Port " — at a village store 1 No 

terms can be too strong to characterize such trade. 

If fine wines of unquestionable character and 

vintage are to be produced, there are 
possess only two ways of possessing them : one, 

by finding some wine-merchant of long 
standing and reputation, who will do an applicant 



Digitized by 



Google 



Wine Questions discussed. 241 

the favour to furnish them, and the price must be 
large for quality and age. We may be certain that 
such a one will never advertise ; no man who really 
has the grands vins of esteemed vintages in his cellar 
need spend a shilling in advertisements, for he 
confers a favour on his customer by parting with 
such stock. But better and more satisfactory is it 
to obtain from time to time a piece or two of wine, 
of high character and reputed vintage, when they are 
to be had, just fit to bottle, and lay them down for 
years until ripe for use. Commencing thus in early 
life, a man's cellar becomes in twenty or thirty years 
a possession of interest and value, and he can always 
produce, at his little dinners, for those who can 
appreciate it, something curiously fine, and free, at 
all events, from the deleterious qualities of new and 
fictitious wines. 

Briefly, the rule, by general gastronomic consent, 
for those who indulge in the luxury of usual d 
wine, is to offer a glass of light pale of wines at 
sherry or dry Sauterne after soup; a 
delicate Rhine wine or Moselle after fish ; a glass 
of good Bordeaux with the joint of mutton ; the 
same, or champagne— dry, but with some true vinous 
character in it, and not the tasteless spirit and water 
which not long since enjoyed an evanescent popu- 
larity as absolute brut — during the entries; the 
best red wine in the cellar, Bordeaux or Burgundy, 
with the grouse or other roast game ; and — but this 
ought to suflice, even for that exceptional individual 

Q 



Digitized by 



Google 



242 Food and Feeding. 

who is supposed to be little, if at all, injured by 
"moderate" potations. With the ice or dessert, a 
glass of full-flavoured but matured champagne, or a 
liqueur, may be served ; but at this point dietetic ad- 
monitions are out of place, and we have already sacri- 

^ ficed to luxury. But it is not to be for- 

One wine ' 

during: a gotten that both temperance and digestion 

are favoured by the habit of avoiding 
much mixing of red and white, or indeed of any 
wines at our meals. Men have discovered for them- 
selves that choice dry champagne, although of high 
character, developed by seven to ten years, or some- 
times longer residence in bottle, and the finest growth 
of Bordeaux matured to perfection, however delightful 
each may prove itself in passing over the palate, 
often quarrel sadly when they arrive in the stomach 
below. Hence the somewhat modern, and certainly 
prudent course, which many now follow, viz. to drink 
either the one or the other wine throughout the 
dinner, and to limit one's self to that only. And this 
makes it necessary to supply, as before intimated, 
the best produce of the cellar during the whole 
course of the dinner, instead of reserving it, as in 
days of yore, for consumption afterwards. 

The value of a cigarette at the moment a meal has 
Tobacco been completed, consists in the fact that 

after eating: : ^fter the first whiff or two of its fragrance 
the palate soon ceases to demand either food or 
wine. After smoke the power to appreciate good 
wine i3 lost, and no judicious host ca^res to open a 



Digitized by 



Google 



Coffee and Tobacco. 243 

fresh bottle from his best bin for the smoker, nor 
will the former be blamed by any man for a dis- 
inclination to do so. Moreover, tobacco ^^ ^^ ^f 
is unquestionably an ally of temperance ; temperance : 
certainly it is so in the estimation of the gourmet. 
A relationship for him of the most perfect order is 
that which subsists between coffee and its relation 
fragrant smoke. While wine and tobacco *^ coffee, 
are antipathetic, the one affecting injuriously all that 

is grateful in the other, the aroma of ^ , . 
^ ' natural, and 

coffee " marries " perfectly with the per- widely 
fume of the finest leaf. Among the '*^^^°" 
Mussulmans this relationship is recognized to the 
fullest extent ; and also throughout the Continent 
the use of coffee, which is almost symbolical of 
temperate habits, is intimately associated with the 
cigarette or cigar. Only by the uncultured classes 
of Great Britain and of other northern nations, who 
appear to possess the most insensitive palates in 
Europe, have smoke and alcoholic drinks been closely 
associated. By such, tobacco and spirit have been 
sought chiefly as drugs, and are taken mainly for 
their effects on the nervous system — ^the easy but 
disastrous means of becoming stupid, besotted, or 
drunk. People of cultivated tastes, on the other 
hand, select their tobacco or their wines, not for 
their qualities as drugs, but for those subtler 
attributes of flavour and perfume, which exist often 
in inverse proportion to the injurious narcotic in- 
gredients ; which latter are as much as possible 



Digitized by 



Google 



244 Food and Feeding. 

avoided, or are accepted chiefly for the sake of the 
former. 

Before quitting the subject of dining it must be 
Water at ^^^ ^^^ ^^^ ^^» those who drink 

meals. water with that meal probably enjoy the 

pleasure of eating more than those who drink wine. 
They have generally better appetite and digestion, 
and they certainly preserve an appreciative palate 
longer than the wine-drinker. Water is so important 
an element to them, that they are not indifferent to 
its quality and source. As for the large class which 
cannot help itself in this matter, the importance of an 
ample supply of uncontaminated water cannot be 
overrated. The quality of that furnished to the 
The London population of London is happily now 
supply. good, but the only mode of storing it 

possible to many often renders it dangerous to 
health. Disease and intemperance are largely pro- 
duced by neglect in relation to these two matters. 
It would be invidious, perhaps, to say what particular 
question of home or foreign politics could be spared, 
that Parliament might discuss a matter of such 
pressing urgency as a pure water supply; or to 
specify what particular part of our enormous expendi- 
ture, compulsory and voluntary, might be better 
Purest employed than at present, by placing a 

natural constant and ample supply of it within 

waters, 

plain and easy reach of the poorest consumer in 

*®'**^® town and country. But for those who can 

afford to buy bottled waters, no purer exists in any 



Digitized by 



Google 



Pure Natural Water Best. 245 

natural sources than that of our own Malvern springs, 
and these are aerated and provided in the form of 
soda and potash waters of unexceptionable quality. 

Pure distilled water, however, re-supplied with 
atmospheric air by a special process, and Aerated dis- 
then well charged with carbonic acid tUled water, 
gas, is now furnished at so reasonable a cost in 
London as to be within the reach of persons of 
moderate means. It is almost needless to say that 
so prepared, water is absolutely pure, and nothing 
more safe or wholesome can be employed for drink- 
ing purposes. Certainly it is wholly unnecessary to 
import waters for the use of the table from foreign 
sources, unless medical qualities are particularly 
desired by the consumer. No foreign waters of any 
kind whatever, from any source, are so pure or half 
so cheap, or so easy to obtain as the distilled waters 
now referred to, which are prepared here at home at 
our very doors ; and none are so safe and so useful 
for the consumer in relation to health, whatever 
the advertiser may affirm respecting their value in 
gout, etc. 

Then the great makers of soda and potash waters 
in this country supply a thoroughly 
trustworthy article. Each bottle con- potash 
tains a known quantity, from five to ^^^"^ 
fifteen grains of the salt, the water being obtained 
from their own artesian wells, or other equally pure 
sources, so that English aerated waters are unrivalled 
in excellence. On the other hand, the foreign siphon^ 



Digitized by 



Google 



246 Food and Feeding. 

made, as it often is, at any chemist's shop, and from 

the water of the nearest source, is a very uncertain pro- 

Travellcni duction. Probably our travelling fellow- 

S*^in^^ countrymen owe their attacks of fever 

iMd water. more to drinking water contaminated 

by sewage matter than to the malarious influences 

which pervade certain districts of southern Europe. 

The only water safe for the continental traveller to 

drink is a natural mineral table water, and such is 

now always procurable throughout Europe, except in 

very remote or unfrequented places.* In the latter 

.... , circumstances no admixture of wine or 
Adding; wine 

makes it no spirit counteracts the poison in tainted 

water, and makes it safe to drink, as 

people often delight to believe ; but the simple pro- 

_ „ . cess of boiling it renders it perfectly 

Boilit ^ , f , . , . ,./ 

harmless ; and this result is readily 

attained in any locality by making weak tea to be 
taken hot or cold ; in the latter case, it is more palat- 
able, with a little lemon infused, than alone; or in 
making toast-water, barley-water, lemonade, etc. 
The table waters now so largely imported into this 
country from Germany and France, contain a con- 
siderable proportion of mineral matter in solution, 

* Throughout France, St. Gahnier ; in Germany, Seltzers or 
Appollinaris ; in Austria and Bohemia, Gieshiibel, are always 
obtainable, being the table waters of most repute, in each case 
respectively, of the country itself. In all chief places in Italy, 
Appollinaris, Seltzers, or St. Galmier, are supplied by the hotels. 
In Spain these are rarely at present to be had, but the alterna- 
tives recommended are easily obtained. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Mineral Waters Safest abroad. 247 

and while they are wholesome as regards freedom 
from organic impurities, are, of course, less perfect for 
daily use than absolutely pure waters, such as those 
above referred to. Useful as they are or drink 
for the English when travelling abroad, ^^^ 
because the ordinary water supplied in water, 
foreign cities is so frequently contaminated, they are 
all far inferior to our home-prepared aerated, distilled 
waters for all purposes of consumption. Vaunted 
frequently as possessing certain medicinal proper- 
ties, this very fact ought to prohibit their constant 
use as dietetic agents, inasmuch as we do not require 
drugs as diet, but only as occasional correctives, 
which can be added to pure water (for example, 
fifteen or twenty grains of bicarbonate of soda or 
potash) when required. Among them the principal 
are natural Seltzers, AppoUinaris, and St. Galmier — 
of this latter some sources are inferior to others, the 
best appearing now to be chiefly retained for Paris — 
being perhaps among the most satisfactory within 
our reach. A dash of lemon juice, and Waters with 
a thin cutting of the peel, form some- lemon. juice, 
times an agreeable addition, especially to our well- 
made soda, seltzer, or potash waters ; and nothing 
keeps the palate cleaner or in better order for appre- 
ciating food. I am compelled to say 

that the sweet compounds and fruity sugar fit for 
. . , ^ , dinner drink, 

juices which not very long ago were 

produced, and inordinately puffed, as dinner drinks, 

and apparently in competition with wine, are rarely 



Digitized by 



Google 



248 Food and Feeding. 

wholesome adjuncts to a dinner. Such liquids rapidly 
develop indigestible acid products in the stomachs 
of many persons ; while for all, the sipping of sweet 
fluids, effervescing or otherwise, during a meal tends 
to diminish appetite, as well as the faculty of 
appreciating good cookery. If wine is refused, let 
the drink which accompanies dinner be of pure 
water — with a sparkle of gas in it, and a slight dash 
of vegetable acid in it if you will — but in obedience 
both to gastronomic and dietetic laws, let it be free 
from sugar. No doubt there are exceptional circum- 
stances in which fruity juices, if not very sweet, can 
The water- be taken freely. Thus I have rarely 
me^^hot quaffed more delicious liquor at dinner 
countries. in the warm autumn of southern Europe, 

notably in Spain, than that afforded by ample slices 
of a water-melon, which fill the mouth with cool 
fragrant liquid ; so slight is the amount of solid 
matter, that it only just serves to contain the 
abundant delicate juices of the fruit grown in those 
climates. Here some saccharine matter is present, 
but it exists in very small proportion^ and in its most 
digestible form. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER XIV. 

In order to arrange a dinner some practical acquaintance with 
food is necessary — ^Also of the season at which various 
kinds are in perfection — ^The art of menu writing — ^The 
scheme or elementary outline of a dinner — Menus should 
be written in French — Examples of simple menus for each 
month in the year — Some in English, chiefly in French, for 
comparison — Menus of higher character — Further remarks 
on the order in which dishes should be presented — ^And on 
other matters arising out of the subject. 

The remark is frequently heard from the domestic 
head of an English family, the lady of Alleged 
the house-who, although in easy ^^^^ 
circumstances and much occupied in menu, 
good society, does not care to delegate her authority 
to a skilled professional housekeeper — ^that nothing 
puzzles her more than the composition of menus for 
the inevitable dinner parties. She feels almost as 
ready, or rather as unready, as she would be if called 
upon to compose a sonnet or a symphony. Her 
husband, whose counsels are so valuable, or at all 
events are so promptly furnished on almost all other 
topics, utterly fails in his attempt to offer a suggestion 
now. Hence she meets her cook on terms which 



Digitized by 



Google 



250 Pood and Feeding. 

preclude exercise of choice or criticism; and the 
latter becomes mainly the author of the programme. 
But a leading confectioner . or dinner purveyor may 
also be consulted, who supplies the suggestion desired, 
sending in a dish or two in consequence ; and a suit- 
able congruity is devoutly hoped for as the result 
At all events, one may be assured that the menu will 
be sufficiently comprehensive ; and there is even a 
probability that it will contain the latest novelty — 
well, let us say — in gastronomic nomenclature ; since 
that of the imported dish itself may, perhaps, not be 
so easily or truthfully affirmed. 

I venture, then, to offer a few hints relative to that 
Practical particular form of literary composition 

?/°i?^?ii^„ which is involved in the so-called art of 
**art ox menu 

writing." menu writing. Were it not that the art is 

really a very simple one, I should not risk the responsi- 
bility of offering advice. But it is necessary at the 
outset to state, that in order to insure success in this 
particular department of letters, some little know- 
ledge of the subject, namely, food, its nature and 
principal forms, is really necessary. 

First, then, the author of a m£nu must have a 

-_ ^, moderate acquaintance with the varied 

Must know ^ 

the foods materials which form the natural pro- 

in season « r • 11 

duce of any given season throughout 

the year. Otherwise, we may meet with a proposal 

to serve Scotch salmon at Christmas, wild duck at 

Easter, oysters and grouse at Midsummer, asparagus 

at Michaelmas, and tender peas in November. I 



Digitized by 



Google 



How to arrange a Menu. 251 

don't say that it is absolutely impossible to procure 
some of these things, more especially as the electric 
light may ultimately render us, for gardening pur- 
poses — and who knows for what else ! — independent 
of sun and season ; but at present most of those 
delicacies, like others which might be mentioned, 
are, at the periods named, practically unattainable. 
To be serious, it is necessary that a throughout 
housekeeper should know what are the *^® y®*^- 
best products of the season, both of the animal and 
the vegetable world, in every month of the year. 
A pleasant stroll through Covent Garden once a 
week, and an occasional call on the fishmonger 
and poultryman, with frequent reference to some 
good manual of cookery, containing a kind of 
Almanack des Gourmands^ will furnish a fair ac- 
quaintance with what is really an interesting branch 
of knowledge. See table of fish in season. Appendix, 
p. 293. 

Next, it is necessary to have a simple but clear 
notion of the foundation or outline, the Every dinner 

pattern or "archetype" — if I may use should be 

arrang^ed on 
a scientific term of rather lofty signifi- a certain 

cance — on which every dinner, however ^ 

great or however small, must be planned, as the 

groundwork of its construction. Certain primary 

elements are essential to the structure of a dinner ; 

shorn of these there may without doubt be a meal, 

and indeed not a bad one of some kind ; but there 

can be no dinner. Thus, a man may satisfy his 



Digitized by 



Google 



252 Food and Feeding. 

hunger with a large plate of meat, piled with sup- 
plementary vegetables, and flanked by the attendant 
bread, and greatly enjoy his meal, but this is not 
A series of dinner in any technical sense of the 

dishes, each word, and cannot be so r^;arded : it is 

hnytny some 

relation to simply a plate of meat and v^etables. 

e next, j^ offers no change in form, or kind, or 

flavour, and no slight interval of rest for the palate ; 

it is a single movement, not a complete symphony — 

an "andante" in common time, but wanting the 

preliminary introduction, and without the bright and 

sparkling "minuet" to follow, which in its turn 

leads to the " grand finale ; " while this in its course 

may present a plaintive minor passage, giving force 

and splendour to the resumption of the major key 

, before the close. Thus it is that certain 
so as to make 

an ap-eeable constituent parts are necessary, one lend- 
ing force to another by help of relief or 
contrast ; the attainment of perfection through variety 
being as essential to the idea of a dinner as to that 
of a complete musical composition. Bearing this 
law in view, and maintaining the characters de- 
manded, we may produce a dinner of Spartan 
simplicity, or may swell it to proportions which 
should satisfy a Lucullus ; but the design or arche- 
type is still to be discernible throughout 

A dinner to be complete within moderate limits 
should contain, in ideal terms — 

A complete . i. An introductory or preliminary dish or 

dinner scheme two, as soup, or fish, or both. 



Digitized by 



Google 



System to be followed. 253 

2. A substantial dish of meat, or fihe de \ Exchaiigeable for 
resistance, to satisfy a keen appetite. / ™ following if 

) desired: 



3. A choice dish or two of delicate flavour 

for those who have little appetite for the 
preceding (or No. 2), as well as for those 
who have, but are able also to reserve 
a place for the gratification of taste. 

4. A dish of marked flavour and character 

easily digestible, inviting to the palate ; 
either a roast or grill. 

5. A dish of choice vegetables by itself, with 1 

or without an attractive specimen of | 
smoked or cured flesh in some form. 

6. A sweet. 

7. A savoury dish. 



Not absolutely 
essential ; or 
may take the 
place of the sub- 
stantial dish. 



Not all abso- 
lutely essential. 



which may 
be varied 
in detail 
according 
to circum- 
stances, 



Let the foregoing ideas be represented in a concrete 
form, either as simple, and applicable to 
one or two persons ; or with additions 
of a luxurious kind, for the purpose of 
providing the variety necessary when 
there are several guests. It may be laid 
down as a self-evident axiom, that while two persons 
agreeing in their tastes may dine well on three, four 
or at most five dishes, a larger number or choice of 
dishes must be provided to meet the differing tastes 
of ten or twelve persons, not one of whom individually 
may require more than the former. Thus — 



Introductory or 


Soup 


Soup 


Soups 


Preliminary 


or 


and 


and 


Dishes. 


Fish. 


Fish. 


Choice of fish. 



Digitized by 



Google 



254 



Food and Feeding. 



Substantial Dish 
— releviox remove. 



3. Choice Dishes; 
entr^s. 



Joint or other portion of meat ; tender 
and juicy; not necessarily roast: 
to be well garnished, and attended 
with simply cooked vegetables. 



An enirie of some 
kind; one of fish 
may come here 
if soup only were 
taken before the 
meat. 



Two entries — 
rarely more — 
simfde or luxu- 
rious, according 
to the entertain- 
ment desired. 



4. Savoury Entremets. 
Here should be 
offered the dish of 
highestflavourwhich 
reaches the table; 
as a well-cured ham, 
or a highly-smoked 
ox-tongue, or rarely 
a mild curry. 

A choice vegetable 
(which may some- 
times precede, but 
will mostly follow, 
the roast). 



5. The Roast. 



6. Sweet Entremets. 

7. Savoury "Bout." 



Dessert. 



The best in season carefully cooked, 
and served by itself. 



Mostly a bird, as a fine capon ; game 
when in season ; attended or followed 
by a salad. Sometimes, rarely 
venison. 

One, or several, according to the guests. 

Ranges from a morsel of cheese to a 
perfectly made souffli^ or beignet of 
Parmesan ; or may consist of caviare, 
dried fish, fish-roes, devilled biscuit, 
grilled mushroom, etc. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Illustrations to follow. 255 

The essentials, then, of a dinner reduced ^erm ^'^^^ 

to Its lowest term are — essential 

for dinner. 

I. Preliminary . . Soup only: or fish only, if soup dis- 
agrees, or is objected to. Both, it 
desired. 

2 and 3. The Meat Meat alone; or fish in its place, if soup 
AND entrie. only has been taken; or the entrh 

alone if lighter food than meat is 
preferred. 

4* A Roast .... A roast bird of some kind. 

5, 6, and 7. Entremets. A vegetable; sweet, or savoury— one 
of each only, or two only, as preferred. 

In order to illustrate the foregoing remarks, I shall 

now furnish a few examples of small ^ 

Examples 
but complete dinners ; which are easily of moderate 

reducible, however, to the " lowest term," S^w fw 

by the omission of a dish or two on the ?*ch month 
' m the year, 

principle laid down. In each menu a 

choice of soups, fish, entries, roast and sweet entremets^ 
are given ; constituting, in fact, the menus of two 
dinners. Such a double menu is sketched from the 
materials most in season for each month Menu for 
in the year, making twenty-four dinners **^ month, 
in all. I have ventured to do so because the sugges- 
tion has been so frequently made that practical 
illustration of the principles advocated should be 
appended, and also because it appears possible that 
a few examples may, perhaps, be of some slight 



Digitized by 



Google 



256 Food and Feeding. 

service to young or inexperienced persons, if any 
such there be. I wholly disclaim any idea of furnish- 
ing programmes here for elaborate dinners, or "state " 
occasions ; and only intend to suggest simple products 
which any good or "thorough good" cook may 
furnjsh properly, at all events with a little preliminary 
practice in some instances. Perhaps the truth is 
scarcely yet sufficiently recognized that the quality 

^ f .^ i. 1. or character of a dinner does not depend 
Quality to be ^ 

sought, not on the number, the complexity, the cost, 

comp exity. ^^ ^^^^ ^^ ^j^^ rarity of the component 

dishes. Let these be few in number, and be simple in 
composition ; but if the material itself is the best of 
its kind, well cooked and tastefully presented, the 
dinner may rank with the best, and is certain to 
please. 

I have long been forced to the conclusion that 
Menus menuSy as a rule, should be written 

Sen^ altogether in the French language. So 
French. many French culinary terms have been 

naturalized, so many more are almost if not quite 
untranslatable, that the endeavour to write menus in 
English invariably results in an objectionable mixture 
of the two languages, resembling a mongrel patois. 
As examples, those of the first three months and 
those of the last month shall be written as far as 
possible in English, and the remainder will be given 
in French. In some of them the special dish of 
vegetable is served before the roast, in which case 
it will be marked by itself as a " Legume^' and the 



Digitized by 



Google 



Menus in English. 



257 



sweets will be described as ^^ Entremets sucr^s^ 
When the vegetable is placed after the roast, both 
it and the succeeding sweets will be ranked together 
simply as ''Entremets.^* 

Some find it difficult to select for each species 
of English fish its appropriate name in French to 
adopt in a menu, A full list is given, each word with 
its gender (see Appendix, p. 292). 

The m^us for January, February, and March are 
written in English as far as possible. 

JANUABY. 



Soup 


Brunoise. 


Consommd, with Ital- 
ian pastes. 


Fish 


Fillets of Sole k la 
Cardinal. 


Cruuped Cod and 
Oyster Sauce. 


Relev6 or\ 
Remove j 


Roast Leg of Mutton, with pur^e of Onions and 
Haricots (k la Bretonne). 


Entree ... 


Sweetbreads k la 
Financi^re. 


Braised Ox-tongue and 
Spinach. 


Roast 


Pheasant. 


Capon stuflfed with 
fresh truffles.* 


Vegetable 


Seakale and Butter Sauce. 


Entremets 


Iced Cofifee, or Vanille 
Souffle. 


Meringues aux Confi- 
tures. 




Soufla^ of Bloater on 
Toast. 


Curry of Shrimps on 
Fried Croutes. 



• Fresh French truffles are in perfection in December and 
January, to which last-named month, fruitful in all good things, 
this dish might well be relegated ; but are still in season 
through February. Fair English truffles, notably inferior, how- 
ever, to the French black truffle, may be found in Covent 
Garden a month or two later. See also remarks respecting 
them, pp. 270, 271. 

R 



Digitized by 



Google 



258 



Food and Feeding. 



Soup . 
Fish . 



Relev£ or^ 

Remove / 

£ntr£e ... 

Vegetable 
Roast 



Sweet En-i 

TREMETSj 



FEBBUABY. 

Paysanne. 

Fillets of Turbot k la 

ravigote. 
Braised neck cutlets of 
Haricot of 
Croquettes of Oysters, 
or Scalloped Oysters.* 
Stewed Celery in gravy. 
Wild Duck, Sauce Bi- 

garade.t 

Apricots, Peaches, or 

Pears with Rice. 

Caviare on toast. 



Purde of White Hari- 
cots, or Lentils. 
Broiled Herring and 
Mustard Sauce. 
Veal, and Macedoine or 
Vegetables. 
Mutton Cutlets \ la 
Soubise. 
Chicory in gravy. 
Hare or Snipe. 

Baba with Rum. 

Slices of Cod roe on 
toast, devilled. 



Soup. 



MABCH. 

Croute au pot. 



Fish Boiled Salmon, Sauce 

HoUandaisewith capers. 
Broiled Steak from the 
fillet, Maitre d'Hotel 
Sauce. 
Quenelles of Rabbit, 
pur^e of Celery. 
Vegetable Stewed Mushrooms. 



RELEVjfe or^ 

Remove / 
EntriSe ... 



Pur^e of Turnips, or 
of Artichokes. 

Red Mullets, baked-t 

Pork Chop, Sauce 
Robert 

Timbale of Macaroni 

k la Milanaise. 

Early French Beans, 

tossed in Butter. 



* Another mollusc, the true "scallop" (Pecten maximus), may 
be substituted for oysters as an enMe for occasional change in 
the spring season. It was formerly largely consumed, being 
originally cooked in the manner which is now commonly adopted 
for the oyster, when presented as above described. Long after 
the scallops, oysters came to be esteemed, and, being cooked 
in the same way, were therefore said to be " scalloped." The 
original " scallops " may still be had at our fishmongers', and 
when thinly sliced and so dressed, are by no means to be 
altogether neglected. 

t See p. 154. } See p. 192. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Menus in French. 



259 



i 



' ULARCK^continued. 

Roast Guinea Fowl, with Cress 

or young Salad. 
Spring Tart (Rhubarb). 



Sweet En-"^ 

TREMETSj 



Herring, or Herring 
Roe on Toast. 



Early young Chickens 

farced. 
Charlotte Russe, with 

pistachios. 
Patties of dressed Lob- 
ster au gratin. 



From this place the menus are written in French. 



Consomm^ au Riz, k 

PItalienne. 

Eperlans fritsi 



AFBIL. 
POTAGE Printanier. 

PoiSSON ... Truite grill^e k la Hol- 
landaise. 

Releve Aloyaubrais^ k la Ni- Noisettes de Mouton k 

veraise. la Parisienne. 

Entree ... Souffl^es de Jambon. Petits Souffldes de Vo- 

laille au fond d*arti- 
chauts. 
Legumes ... Asperges d'Argenteuil. 

RdT Poulet et Salade. 

Entremets^ Bavaroise au Choco- 
SUCR^S / lat. 

Petits Souffles au Par- 
mesan. 

MAT. 

Pot AGE Bonne femme. 

PoiSSON ... Filets de Maquereau 
griU^s,Maitre(rH6tel. 

Relev6 Selle d*Agneau brais^e. 

Entree ... Cr^me de Volaille aux 
truffes. 

LEGUMES . . . Carottes k PAllemande. 

Rot Cailles, bardds. 

Entremets^ Cr^mefriteauxamandes 
SUCRjfes / am^es. 

CEufs de Pluvier. 



Canetons. 
Cr^me au Caramel. 

Anges k cheval. 



Crdgy. 
Sole k la Colbert. 

Mac^doine de Legumes. 
T^te de Veau en 

Tortue. 

Petits pois k la Fla- 

mande. 

Levraut. 

Parfait au chocolat. 



Canapes de Crevettes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



26o 



Food and Feeding. 



JXJJSTE. 

PoTAGE Pot-au-feu. 

PoiSSON ... Saumon de Severn tail- 
lad^, sauce au fe- 
nouil ; ou sauce verte 
froide. 

Relev£ Fricandeau de 

Entree ... Chaudfroid de Cailles. 

RdT Canards aux petits pois. 

Legumes ... Asperges froides en 
salade. 



Bisque d'Ecrevisses.* 

Raie au Beurre Noir, 
ou sauce au cypres. 



Entremets 



Purde de groseilles 
glac^e. 

Kari d*homarden aspic. 



Veau k POseille. 
Quenelles d'homard en 
belle vue. 
Oison, Salade. 

Petits pois k la Fran- 
gaise. 

Nougat k la Cr^me. 
Croutes k Tlndienne. 



JUIiY. 

Pot AGE Purde de Pois (St. Ger- 
main). 

PoissoN ... Carrelets frites. 

Relev£ Epaule d'Agneau k la purde d*Artichauts. 

Entree ... Bouchdes k la Reine en 
belle vue. 

Rot Chevreuil. 

Legumes ... Salade aux Tomates. 



Entremets! 

SUCRfe / 



Gel^e au Kirsch, gamie 
de Cerises. 

Canapes d'Anchois. 



Pur^e de Pommes de 
terre aux poireaux. 

Aigrefin farcie au four. 



Poulet k FEstragon. 



Pluviers. 

H aricots verts,ou pana- 
ches, sautes au beurre. 

Bavaroise aux fraises. 

Petits Filets de Sau- 
mon au diable. 



* A bisque is understood to be a well-flavoured and garnished 
pur^e of crayfish, as above ; but the same treatment of prawns, 
of lobster, and also of crab, produces excellent bisques. Some 
apply the term to certain /«r/<?j of game, at the risk, perhaps, of 
rendering the meaning of the word uncertain. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Menus in French. 



261 



AUGUST. 

POTAGE Purde de Chicor^e, ou 

d'Epinards. 

PoiSSON ..* Sole Frite, citron; ou 

Sauce verte. 

Relev£ Poitrine de Mouton k la Chicorde.* 

Entree ... Filets de Caneton gar- 

nis en aspic. 
Rot Dindonneau. 

Legumes ... F^ves de Marais k la 
Poulette. 

^""^^D Mac^doinedes Fruits. 
" Dressed Crab." 



Consomm^ au Maca- 
roni, ou au Vermi- 
celle. 

Barbue, Sauce aux 
Crevettes. 



Souffles de Veau aux 

petits pois, en aspic. 

Coq de Bruy^re 

(" grouse "). 

Salade de Legumes. 



Cr^me aux framboises. 
Coquilles k la Jure. 





SEPTEMBEB. 




Potage 


Cr^med'OrgeklaHol- 
landaise.t 


Julienne. 


POISSON ... 


Aigrefin grille k la 
ravigote.t 


Sole k la Normande. 


Relev£ 


Haricot de Chevreuil. 


"Beefsteak Pudding 
k FAnglaise. 


Entree ... 


Filets de Poulet aux 


Blanquette de Ris 




Truffes, Sauce Supreme. 


d'Agneau klaToulouse. 


Rot 


Perdreaux. 


Poularde au cresson. 


Entremets 


Chou-fleur 


au gratin. 




Charlotte aux pommes. 


Omelette souffl^e. 




Croustades de la mer- 


Champignons grilles. 




luche fumde. 





* An excellent dish, first braised, then cooled ; finished with 
bread crumbs in the oven, or on the gridiron, and garnished 
with a purie of endive, or of spinach, or with tomatoes. The 
trimmed neck similarly treated makes a more substantial remove. 

t The distinctive and agreeable addition, besides the little 
quenelles of fowl, in this soup, is the handful of sorrel leaves, 
which are still in season during this month. 

X Merlucke is generally used in this country to denote 
" haddock,'* but the French word merely designates any dried 
fish. Aigrefin, or aiglefin, is the true equivalent for haddock. 



Digitized by 



Google 



262 



Food and Feeding. 



OCTOBEB. 



Pur^e de Tomates. 



POTAGE Pur^e de Volaille (k la 

Reine). 

PoiSSON ... Filets de Barbae Frits. Dorde, Sauce aux 

hultres. 

Relev£ Filet de BcEuf k la Milanaise. 

Entri^e ... Civet de Li^vre. | Fricassde de Poulet. 

Legume ... Artichauts au Beurre. 

Rot Faisan. 

Entremets\ Omelette au confiture. 

SUCRl^S / 



Canapes de Jambon. 



"Black Game." 

Beig^ets de pommes, 
etc. 

Rissolettes k la Caire. 



NOVEMBER. 

Potage Purde de Gibien 

PoiSSON ... Sole au vin blanc, gar- 
nie aux huitres. 

Relev£ Selle de Mouton 

£ NTR]^ e ... Faisan bouilli, k la pur^e 
de Caeri. 

R6t BdcassesouBdcassines. 

Entremets Foie Gras en Aspic, 
Salade Mac^doine. 

Savarin. 

Croutes au chasseur. 



Soupe aux Choux. 

Merlan grille, Sauce au 
Cypres. 

R6tie,"Laver."* 

Salmi de Perdreaux. 

Oie. 

Pommes de Terre Sau- 
t^es au Beurre. 

Meringues k la Creme. 

Petites Coquilles de 
Macaroni au Gratin. 



* Laver is in season from October to March, and consists of 
two native marine plants, Porphyra vulgaris and Ulva latissinta. 
It is unknown in France, and recognized in few of our own 
cookery books. A most excellent adjunct to roast mutton. 
Let it soak in two fresh waters, about an hour in each, to get 
rid of the salt ; then put it in a saucepan with some hot water, 
and simmer until quite soft and mucilaginous ; dress it as 
spinach, with butter, or with a little stock, and a dash of lemon 
juice ; serve hot. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Christmas Menu^ English. 263 



The last menu is given in English. 

BECEMBEB. 

{Christmas Dinners,) 

Soup Consommd, with Italian 

pastes. 

Fish Turbbt, Hollandaise Brill 

sauce with capers. 



Oyster. 

and Tartare 
Sauce. 



Relev6 or\ 
Remove / 

Entree ... 



Roast 

Entremets 



Turkey stuffed with Chestnuts, or fresh Truffles. 
Fillet of Beef, Horse-radish Sauce. 



Souffld of Fowl, Sauce 
with fresh Truffles. 



Westphalian Goose 
Breast with Winter 
Spinach. 



Game in Season. 



Spinach in gravy. 

Plum Pudding, Brandy 
Sauce. 

Welsh Rarebit. 



Stewed Celery. 

Mince Pies. 
Chartreuse of Oranges. 

Devilled Biscuit. 



Eight more menus follow here, in French, requiring 
for their proper execution a first-class 
cook. Two are for winter, two for spring, French of 
and four for the autumn, as illustrations ^ ^^ 
of more finished dishes than those previously given ; 
all of which, although excellent and typical com- 
binations, meriting the highest care and talent 
when available, are also within the reach of most 
middle-class households where an interest in cookery 
exists. 



Digitized by 



Google 



264 



Food and Feeding. 



DECEMBEH AND JANUAB.7. 



Huitres. 
Pot AGE Consomm6 k la Royale. 

POISSON 

Relev£... 



la 



Entree 



Legume ... 
R6t 

Entremets 



Filets de Sole k 
chevreuse.* 

Selle de Venaison du 
For6t noir, " Key 
Rucken/* rotie k la 
Vienne. % 

Petits soufflds de Vola- 
ille, Supreme k la 
Perig^eux. 

Jambon braisde en 
Bourgogne.§ 

Asperges d'Argenteuil 



Mulligatawny claire. 

Filets de Sole k la 

ViUeroy.t 

Filets-mignons de boeuf 

k la Pompadour. 



Creme de Faisan aux 
truffes. 

Langue de Boeuf 
braisde. § 



Cailles Bardies. 

Truffes fraiches k la 
Serviette. II 

Pouding k la Nessel- 
rode glac^. 



Becasse sur croute. 

Petits Aspics au foie 
gras. 

Pouding k la Diplo- 
mate. 



Petits bouts du Kari complet.l 



* Dubois, p. 520. 

t Dubois, p. 522. 

X May be obtained from one or two German houses during 
the winter months direct from Black Forest in excellent 
condition. 

§ See p. 1 10, et seq. 

II Clean well ; simmer in water with little sherry added, half 
an hour. Serve hot, covered in the folds of a napkin. 

1[ A miniature curry. Each cooked in a small porcelain shell ; 
eight or ten may be made from a plover or from a brace of 
snipe, each garnished with little bits of chopped gherkins and 
sweet chutnee, surrounded with a border of rice properly boiled, 
served hot ; the contents of each only amounting to two or three 
mouthfuls. Little shells, made to stand the fire, may be found 
in varied forms at Goode's in South Audley Street. 



Digitized by 



Google 



French Menus. 



265 



MAY. 

POTAGE Consommd k la Jacque- 
line.* 

PoiSSON ... Truite au court bouillon. 

Relev£ ... Filet de boeuf k la 
Chantilly. 

Entree ... Ris de Veau k la Mar- 
silly. 

R&T Ortolans auxcroAtes,ou 

Canetons. 

Entremets Haricots, verts ^tuv^s. 

Riz k la cr^me framboise. I Gateau de Plombi^res. 

Souffle au Gruy^re. | BrochettesdeHomard. 



Purde d'Asperges. 

Filets de Sole k la 
Chevreuse. 

Gigot de Mouton braisd 
k la Bercy. 

Boudins de Volaille k 
r^carlate. 

Cailles ou Canetons. 





8EPTEMBEB. 




POTAGE 


Purde de Levraut. 


Consommd de Volaille 
k TEstragon. 


POISSON ... 


Sole k la Trouville. 


Quenelles de Merlan k 
la Montglas. 


Relev6 ... 


Cotelettes de Veau, pi- 
qu^es k la Soubise. 


Pointe de boeuf k la 
Flamande. 


Entree ... 


Mousseline de Volaille 
chaude. 


Filets mignons de pou- 
larde k la Montpensier. 


Rot 


" Grouse." 

Fonds d'Articha 


Perdreaux. 


Entremets 


uts k la moelle. 




Plombi^re aux cdrises. 


Gateau bordelais. 




Croiites au foie-gras. 


Sardines au gratin. 



* Consommi of fowl, thickened with a liason of yolk of tigg 
with cream, adding spring vegetables cut in dice. 



Digitized by 



Google 



266 



Food and Feeding. 



POTAGE., 



POISSON 

Relev£ 
Entree 



Rot 



Entremets 



OCTOBEB. 

Vdours.* 

Dames de Saumon k la 
Matelote. 

Noisettes dc Veau aux 
champignons. 

Petites timbales de 
Volaille aux truffes. 

Rible de Li^vre k la 
cr^me. 

Stachys tuberata \ la 
poulette4 

G4teau Fleury. 
Canapes de Provence. 



Consommd k la Nill- 

son.t 

Cr^me de Homard. 

Chateaubriand k la 
moelle. 

Filets de Caneton k la 
Pdrigueux. 

Dindonneau farci. 

Cr^me de topinam- 
bours. 

Parfait au Nougat. 

Petits SoufH^esde mer- 
luche fumde sur croutes. 



On looking through the foregoing menus^ it may 
be observed that the most substantial dish has been 
placed next after the fish, and that it is followed by 
the entree, after which comes the "roast," which in 
its turn is followed by the choice vegetable served 
apart. Those who prefer the entree before the sub- 
stantial dish, can so arrange it; but whenever the 
latter happens to be roasted, as may sometimes be 
the case, it interferes most undesirably, by juxta- 
position with the "roast" proper. This error may 
then be to some extent corrected by placing the 
choice vegetable between the two, i.e. before the 
"roast" proper instead of after it; and this course 

* A smooth pur^e of the red part of the carrot ; the basis 
being a clear bouillon^ thickened with tapioca. — Dubois, 
t A consommi of fowl, elegantly garnished. — Dubois^ p. 443. 
X See p. 176. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Art in arranging Dishes. 267 

should be taken whenever the first-named change 
is made. 

In all cases, too, there should be a marked differ- 
ence in the material and culinary treat- Effects of 
ment of any two consecutive dishes; contrast 
thus it is obviously undesirable that one white (or 
brown) preparation should follow another ; a quenelle 
of veal, for example, after a boiled sole ; or that a 
salmi of game should precede a roast pullet It may 
be observed that white and brown meats and sauces 
mostly alternate, that grills and braises contrast; 
that a delicate white entrie successfully introduces 
the roast, that when the latter is substantial, as a 
haunch of venison, or a saddle of mutton, the pre- 
ceding entrie may be less important; and so on. 
As a rule, to which there are a few exceptions, the 
procession of dishes after the fish is from the sub- 
stantial to the more delicate ; after which the appetite 
is stimulated by contrasts. Thus, the proceed by 
piquant flavour of the roast, with its steps from 
''taste of the fire,'' is welcome, being flavours to 
sometimes followed by the soft and sue- piquant 
culent vegetable, the young peas or stewed celery, or 
the globe artichoke, preparing the palate for a slice 
of highly-cured ham, tongue, or Westphalian goose- 
breast, with a delicate scent of pure wood smoke. 
On the whole, perhaps, this latter is practically most 
welcome after the entries^ and before the choice 
vegetable preceding " the roast," the place of which 
is then last before the sweet The final impression 



Digitized by 



Google 



268 Food and Feeding. 

must, of course, be a savoury one, which the palate 

receives, being thus rendered "clean," prepared to 

rest — or perchance to relish the last glass of wine 

by the delicate savoury morsel which terminates 

the menu, 

I desire to ask special attention to the fact that 

Haveomitted numerous popular dishes have been 

familiar omitted — and purposely so — from these 

M ***joinS?' ^^nu5, simply for the reason that they 

"turtle," are well known, and can therefore be 

''special 

soups," and adopted at pleasure by way of addition 

etc/, tosave ^^ exchange. Thus, none of the joints, 

needless guch as sirloins, rounds, haunches, 

menu ' ' ' 

writing ; saddles, loins, shoulders, etc., have been 

named, with perhaps a single exception only. Every- 
body is familiar with English joints, which have been 
on this account excluded from a list necessarily so 
restricted as the limits of only thirty-two menus 
demand. For the same reason, I have not included 
in them turtle in any form, nor curries ; nor such 
special soups as mock-turtle, mulligatawny, hodge- 
podge, split-pea,* giblet, water-souchets, and fish 
soups ; nor whitebait, nor the fresh-water fish, carp, 
tench, dace, pike, etc. ; nor among sweets, tarts, ices, 
sorbets, and the farinaceous puddings, custards, etc. ; 
nor have I named the preliminary oysters, which 

* Our common split-pea soup, wholesome and agreeable in 
winter, with dried mint and tiny croHtons^ is wholly unknown in 
France ; the dried green peas, termed pois cassis^ only are used 
for similar purposes there. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Dishes omitted ; Reason given. 269 

may well be added during the season, September to 
April inclusive, as an additional luxury. My object 
has been to suggest a few of the leading smaller 
dishes of a comparatively simple and not expensive 
kind, and to place them in proper juxtaposition 
in relation to each other, so far as this has been 
possible, with the view of suggesting some little 
diversity in the dietary of our better middle-class 
tables. Almost every one also is more or less typical 
in its character, so that given the knowledge of 
preparing it, several minor varieties can be produced. 
At the same time, such dishes are un- jntroducinir 

pretentious, and do not demand the skill simple dishes 

less used 
of a rare expert ; yet, when really well than they 

executed, they offer results not to be 

surpassed by any, either in relation to refined tastes, 

or in wholesome and nourishing qualities, in relation 

to the powers of the stomach and the wants of the 

system. To the remark regarding an estimate of 

the expense just made, I admit two or, at most, 

three exceptions, of which the chapon „ 

^ ' ^ Remarks on 

truffi is the most obvious example, "chapon 
And it is not suggested, moreover, that * 

this should be prepared at home, but obtained only 
during the season of fresh truffles from France; 
stuffed on its native soil with native produce, it forms 
a very important addition to a dinner, and stamps 
it with a rare distinction. There is no difficulty in 
procuring truffled poultry of any size by rail direct 
from Paris, when the indulgence of a little extravagance 



Digitized by 



Google 



270 Food and Feeding. 

is to be permitted ; but even this trouble is not 
necessary, since a few first-rate London poulterers 
import fresh truffles, and will furnish a fine Dorking 
fowl properly stuffed, the quantity used determining 
in any case the cost of the dish.* 

I have somewhere before said that the fresh truffle 
and upon ^^ so immeasurably superior to those 

*™ffl««- preserved in bottles, that the latter 

appears to me scarcely worth eating, except for 
their agreeable nutty texture ; and, mainly by virtue 
of the law which operates through the associa- 
tion of ideas, for the memory of delicious flavour 
and subtle aroma, existing only when the truffle 
is fresh, as during its term of harvest, about ten or 
twelve weeks after the end of November. I refer, 
of course, only to the French growth, superior as 
it is by many degrees to our own, and to that 
of North Italy alsaf For those who have not 

* No better names could be mentioned than those of Chevet, 
of the Palais Royal, and Bailey, of Mount Street, Grosvenor 
Square. 

The French truffle — truffe nair^ is a subterraneous fungus, of 
the species " Tuber." T, melanosparum is found in the woods, 
chiefly beneath the shade of the oak, in the neighbourhood of 
Perigueux and of Angoul^me. The British truffle, T, cestivutn^ 
found mostly in beech woods, is in season in the coiurse of the 
summer, when it may be found in Covent Garden ; but' even 
when fresh is greatly inferior to the French variety in scent and 
flavour. 

t The above, written some eight or ten years ago, accurate 
as it then was, represents a condition now considerably im- 
proved, and I leave the text, adding this note for the purpose of 



Digitized by 



Google 



Notes about Truffles; Caviare. 271 

eaten and appreciated the fresh truffle, it appears 

to me that eating them when preserved is more the 

result of fashion, than of much gratification derived 

from the act. Something of the same 

Caviare, 
kind may be said of caviare. Once 

eaten in its freshest and finest condition, say in 
Moscow, and the black herring-fiavoured, small- 
seeded caviare, commonly found here, becomes 
uneatable. But the pale grey and fresher kind does, 
to a satisfactory extent, recall the delicious qualities 
of the best Russian product when fresh. And this 
latter may sometimes be found at Berlin, a distance 
it can reach by rail without injury.* 

emphasizing the change. The mode of preserving the truffle 
recently adopted, in air-tight tins instead of the weU-known 
thick bottles— so contrived as to look large, and to hold but a few 
ounces — ^is far more successful than these in preserving the fine 
scent and nut-like texture of the tuber. Cobbett, of Pall Mall, 
and Morel, of Piccadilly, have effected this improvement. But 
during the short winter season of ^^ fresh truffle, each receives 
a direct supply by rail from the Perigord district at least three 
or four times a week. 

* It may be added also, that a fairly good, not highly salted, 
caviare is now less difficult to procure than it formerly was, 
thanks to increased facilities for rapid transit. It should be 
obtained as soon after arrival here as possible, in time for 
immediate use. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER XV. 

The public dinner— Its undue length— Toasts too numerous — 
Suggestions for shortening the proceedings — Good cookery 
independent of pedantic and complicated receipts— Schools 
of cookery — Elementary scientific teaching wanted to make 
cookery interesting and a progressive art — Better food, in 
better condition, and in more abundant supply, a pressing 
want for London— Conclusion. 

Before concluding, a remark or two may be per- 

_,. , ,. mitted in reference to that great British 
Tne puDlic *^ 

dinner and institution, the pubhc dinner. Its utility 
' must, I suppose, be conceded, since for 

a vast number of charitable and other useful institu- 
tions, the opportunity of commanding once a year 
the ear of a generous British public for an exposition 
of their claims, seems in no other way at present 
attainable. A royal or noble chairman, a portentous 
menUy an unstinted supply of wine, such as it is, and 
after-dinner speeches in variety, form an ensemble 
which appears to be attractive to the great body of 
"supporters/' On the other hand, those whose 
presence is enforced by the claim of duty find these 
the hardship banquets too numerous and too long, 
it entails. jj^g j^^jg^ ^^ j bustle, the badly served 

although pretentious dinner, the glare of gas and 



Digitized by 



Google 



Shorten Public Dinners, 273 

the polluted air, the long, desultory, and unmeaning 
speeches, interspersed with musical performances — 
which, however admirable in themselves, extend 
unduly a programme already too comprehensive — 
unfit many a man, seriously occupied, for the engage- 
ments of the morrow. Might it not be „. ^ - ., 

^ Hints for its 

worth while to try the experiment of improve- 

offering fewer dishes, better service, and ninji-jj-u 

abolishing half the toasts? Might it number of 
, M « « • • 1 the toasts, 

not be possible to limit the necessary 

and essential toasts of a public dinner to the number 

of three or four— these to be followed at most by one 

or two special toasts associated with the object of 

the dinner? With the utmost deference to long 

received usage, and after some little consideration, 

I venture to suggest that the following programme 

would at all events be an improvement on the present 

system, if such it can be called. 

The first toast, or toasts, by which we declare our 

fidelity to the Crown, and our loyalty 

to the person of the Sovereign, as well which are 
,_.,_., . , essential* 

as to the Royal family, to remain, by 

universal consent, as before. The next, or patriotic 
toasts, unlike the preceding, are regarded as demand- 
ing response, often from several persons, and here 
it is that time is generally wasted. Suggestions 
These might therefore be advantage- tion^d"^" 
ously compressed into one, or perhaps compression^ 
two, which need not be limited to the military and 

naval services, although^ it would, of course, include 

S 



Digitized by 



Google 



274 Food and Feeding. 

them. The object might be attained by constituting 
one or two comprehensive patriotic toasts, as "The 
United Services," to embrace the army, navy, and 
volunteers, and to be responded to either by a naval 
or a military officer as arranged, but by one only. 
Then might naturally follow " The National Institu- 
tions," consisting of, say (i) Parliament : its leaders. 
(2) Justice : the judges. (3) Religion : its ministers. 
(4) Science and Art : heads of societies, academies, 
colleges, (s) Literature and the Press : distinguished 
writers. One of these, as a rule, only to be given, 
and in nine cases out of ten, probably number 
one would be the most appropriate and the most 
popular. 

The next to be " the toast of the evening : " in 
other words, the particular subject of the dinner. 
After this might follow a fourth, embracing the 
healths of officers connected with the subject, visitors, 
etc., if necessary. 

I confess I see no reason why the military and 
Combination naval forces, however profound our 
' p?essio^" respect and our gratitude for their great 

continued. services to the nation must be — and in 
this matter I yield to no man — should invariably 
be responded to by at least two, mostly now by three 
officers, while the other great, and scarcely less 
important interests, should be left out of consideration 
altogether, or be only occasionally introduced. The 
toast of " National Institutions " would mostly ensure 
to the chairman jand managers of the dinner an 



Digitized by 



Google 



Much Improved of Late. 2*]^ 

opportunity of obtaining one or two good speeches, 

say, one for Parliament, or for Justice, or Religion, 

or for Science, or Literature. The choice to be 

determined upon by the presence of some individual 

belonging to any one of these interests, and who is 

known to be a capable and agreeable after-dinner 

speaker. Thus all the varied elements of our 

national life would receive in their turn a due share 

of attention from the great mass of public diners, 

and better speeches would probably be secured than 

by the present mode. 

I confess this is rather an episode ; but the subject 

of "toasts" is so interwoven with the management 

of the public dinner that I have ventured to introduce 

it I even dare to think that the proposition mky 

be not unlikely to receive the support of " the chair," 

the duties of which, with a long array of toasts, are 

sometimes excessively onerous ; only more so, be it 

recollected, in degree than those, of a humbler kind, 

which are entailed on many of the guests who are 

compelled to assist. Considerable im- „ 

^ Recent im- 
provement has taken place during the provement 

. • « f And its cause, 

last few years in the management of 

public dinners. This is largely due to the influence 

of H.R.H. the Prince of Wales, who, when called on 

to preside at the annual festival of some important 

charity, which has been so fortunate as to obtain His 

Royal Highness as their advocate, requires a menu 

reasonably limited, and the elimination of unnecessary 

toasts and speeches. 



Digitized by 



Google 



276 Food and Feeding. 

In concluding this imperfect sketch of the very 
Haye large subject indicated by the title em- 

ShUy^iwuiy ployed, I desire to express my strong 
topics, sense of its manifold shortcomings, 

especially by way of omissioa Desiring to call atten- 
tion, in the smallest possible compass, to a great 
number of what appear to me to be important con- 
siderations in connection with the arts 
which, were 
not the limito of selecting, preparing, and serving food, 

°*"^^' I have doubtless often failed to be ex- 

plicit in the effort to be brief. It would have been 
an easier task were time at my disposal to illustrate 
these considerations at greater length, and to have 

. t.i. i. exceeded the limits of this small volume ; 

might have ' 

been advan- I might thus perhaps also have avoided, 
trwSe?5 in dealing with some topics, a tone in 
length. statement more positive than circum- 

stances may have warranted. Gastronomic tastes 
necessarily differ, as races, habits, digestive force 
and supplies of food also differ ; and it becomes no 
man to be too dogmatic in treating of these matters. 
Degtistibus non est disputandum is in no instance more 
true than in relation to the tastes of the palate. Still, 
if any rational canons are to be laid down in connection 
with food and feeding, it is absolutely necessary that 
something more than the chemical and physiological 
bearings of the subject should be taken into con- 
sideration. With these it is unquestionably essential 
for any one who treats of my subject to be familiar ; 
but no less necessary is it to possess some natural 



Digitized by 



Google 



Taste and Simplicity. ttj^ 

taste and experience in the cultivation of the gusta- 
tory sense, just as a cultivation of the Culinary 
perception of colour and a sensibility ^^Ij^Jjcal 

to the charm of harmoniously combined knowledge 

. „. wanted for 

tmts, are necessary to an mtelligent en- the progress 

joyment of the visual sense, and to the ® ^^ ®^* 
understanding of its powers. Hence the treatment 
of the whole subject must inevitably be pervaded to 
some extent by the personal idiosyncrasy and pre- 
dilections of the individual. It is this fact, no doubt, 
which, operating in relation to the numerous writers 
on cookery, has tended to produce some of the 
complication and confusion which often appears in 
culinary directions and receipts. But the gastronomic 
art is a simpler one than the effusions of some of 
its professors might lead the wholly uneducated to 
believe ; and the complicated productions originated 
by some of its past and greatest practitioners are as 
unnecessary as are the long and complicated prescrip- 
tions formerly in vogue with the leading physicians 
of past time. Both were the natural outgrowths of 
an age when every branch of technical education 
was a " mystery ; " and when those who had 
attained the meaning thereof magnified their craft 
in the eyes of the vulgar by obscuring what is 
simple in a cloud of pedantic terms and processes. 
But that age and its delusions are passing away, 
and it is high time for simplicity in the prac- 
tice of cookery and the service of the table to 
take the place of some useless and extravagant 



Digitized by 



Google 



278 Food and Feeding. 

combinations and treatment which tradition has 
handed down. 

The formation of elementary schools of cookery, 
Schools of and the encouragement they have re- 
cookery and ^gj^^j fj.^j^ ^^ ^yxhXxc, augur well for 
importance. improvement That they should teach 
the principles of cookery, that is, of applying heat 
to food, as well as the practical work of the kitchen, 
is a matter of the first importance. No doubt the 
standard of attainment is low in both subjects, and 
a certain commonplace uniformity in product will 
pervade the country as the result. Once make 
cookery a distinct business to which the young may 
be trained, which it never yet has been, and the 
chance of now and then producing a first-rate cook, 
who may advance the art, is within reach. Formerly 
the practice of cookery was far too often merely a 
resource for wage-getting among ignorant women, 
who took to it at hazard, and acquired such traditions 
as pertained to the kitchen they happened to enter. 
Thanks to some systematic teaching, which of late 
has widely extended, there are occasionally some 
fairly good practical cooks to be met with, but they 
are very rare, and very few indeed understand the 
principles on which the art of cookery is based. 
Until it is taught as a science as well as an art, and 
there should be no difficulty in doing so, since a very 
little knowledge of certain chemical and physical 
laws is requisite to furnish the rationale of the changes 
in food through the application of heat, the cook will 



Digitized by 



Google 



Skilled Teaching NeedfuL ttjc) 

be Ignorant of all except that which she has been 
taught by rule to do, and incapable of improving 
her practice by applying heat in new ways or ac- 
quiring new results by intelligent experiments. 
Further, until the subject of cooking, with its practice, 
is recognized in this country as a profession which 
a man with some education and natural taste can 
exercise, we must be content to rank below other 
countries in rearing artists of the first order. 

At the present day it appears desirable, before all 
things, to secure the highest quality in 
all produce of the land whether animal class 
or vegetable, the standard of attainment ^^° " ^ 
leaving much to be desired in regard to the products 
of the latter kingdom. Great Britain has long held 
the first place as to quality for her beef and mutton ; 
in no other country in Europe is it possible to obtain 
these meats so tender, juicy, and well-developed. 
The saddle, the haunch, the sirloin, and the round, 
so admirable on occasions, are only in danger of 
suffering here, like intimate friends, from a too great 
familiarity with their charms. But even \^ careful 
our standard of quality in meat has been breeding:, 
gradually lowered, from the closer struggle, year by 
year, to produce a fat animal in a shorter space of 
time than formerly ; a result which is accomplished 
by commencing to feed almost exclusively on oil- 
cake at a very early period of life. The result of 
this process is, that size and weight are attained by 
a deposit of fat, rather than by the construction of 



Digitized by 



Google 



28o Food and Feeding. 

muscular fibre, which alone forms the staple of 
matured and wholesome flesh. Not only are there 
in these animals large and unnecessary deposits of 
fat in the cavities, chest, and abdomen of the body, 
but there is also a proportion of fat seen to be inter- 
mixed with the muscular fibres when the meat is 
cut, making what ought to be lean meat a compound 
of fat and lean which are inseparable. This is the 
result of artificial or over-fattening, which does not 
occur in the flesh of an animal which has passed an 
active and healthy life in the forest or on the downs. 
The necessary consequence, of course, is that the 
characteristic flavour and qualities of fully developed 
beef and mutton are greatly wanting in modern 
meat. 

Far from satisfactory also is the supply of vege- 
Vegetable table and dairy produce to our great 
produce. ^^^y^ particularly of the former. It must 

be confessed that our market at Covent Garden, in 
relation to capabilities for effective distribution of 
fresh vegetables, etc., would disgrace a -town one- 
fifth of the size of London. Few of its inhabitants 
can obtain really fresh green food, and those who 
succeed pay a heavy price. But their success is only 
partial, as those few who have a country garden of 
their own, and are supplied by it, well know. And, 
comparatively speaking, none but those who are so 
happily circumstanced, realize the exceeding luxury 
of possessing well-grown vegetables brought directly 
from the garden to the table. Again, I think I am 



Digitized by 



Google 



Better Supply of Foods 281 

right in saying that a new-laid egg is a luxury 
which it is not easy in London to ensure by purchase. 
Whoever would absolutely secure the luxury must 
keep fowls, and with due care may obtain it, not 
otherwise. 

The great staple of our bread, commonly called 
"baker's bread," is unpalatable and in- 
digestible ; and I suppose no thoughtful 
or prudent consumer would, unless compelled, eat 
it habitually — used as it nevertheless is by the great 
majority of the inhabitants of this great city — any 
more than he would select a steak from the coarse 
beef whose proper destination is the stock-poL Let 
any one compare the facilities which exist in most 
foreign towns for obtaining the various important 
articles of diet just named, with the modes of supply 
afforded in London, and the inferiority of the latter 
will be so manifest as to become matter of humilia- 
tion to an Englishman. I do not raise „ ^^ . 
any question of comparison between our distribution 
own markets and the Halles Centrales 
of Paris, covering as they do nearly five acres of 
closely utilized space, with enormous vaults beneath, 
in direct communication by tram-road with the rail- 
ways ; nor of the well-stocked March6 St. Honor^, 
and others of less note. An early morning survey 
of the fish, flesh, dairy produce, vegetables, fruit, and 
flowers, which the Halles Centrales display, together 
with the scarcely less remarkable exhibition of 
Parisian and provincial life brought together there. 



Digitized by 



Google 



282 Food and Feeding. 

presents one of the most interesting and truly foreign 
spectacles which the city affords. 

To the long list of needed reforms I have ventured 
much wanted ^^ advocate in connection with this sub- 
in London. jg^t, I must add the want of ample and 
accessible markets in various parts of London, for 
what is known as country produce. I do this not 
only in the interest of the millions who, like myself, 
are compelled to seek their food within the limits of 
Cockayne, but also in the interest of our country 
gardeners and housewives, who ought to be able to 
supply us with poultry, vegetables, and eggs, better 
than the gardeners and housewives of France, on 
whom at present we so largely depend. We may 
well be grateful to these small cultivators, who by 
their industry and energy supply our deficiencies ; 
but the fact that they do so does not redound to the 
credit of our countrymen, and, I am bound to add, 
countrywomen, for the bountiful supply of eggs and 
poultry which reach us from France is chiefly due to 
the untiring industry, care, and good management of 
the poultry-yard which the wives of the small agri- 
culturists there bestow upon it.* Since the foregoing 
paragraphs were written for the first edition of this 
work, I am glad to note the improved facilities for 
obtaining country supplies which now exist, as com- 
pared with their absence at that period. Still, so 
rapidly do the area and population of our city in- 
crease, that the claim for more and better fresh food 

* See p. 66 for amount imported. 



Digitized by 



Google 



To be Encouraged. 283 

still increases almost in the same ratio as the im- 
proved supply. 

Have I claimed for the consideration of my subject 

too great a share in the thoughts and ^ 

CondusioiL 
multifarious labours of busy men ? I 

think not For myself, being not without serious 
occupations, an attentive study of it has agreeably 
occupied many leisure hours at home and abroad; 
but it has furthermore performed good service in the 
interest of health. And if I have been rightly un- 
derstood, this imperfect attempt to popularize a few 
undoubted truths in relation to the selection, the 
cookery, and the service of food, will be regarded as 
a manifesto, which assuredly it is intended to be, on 
behalf of true temperance. 

In one word let me conclude — if in professional 
life, for some of us, the chief power lies in a skilled 
right hand, and in the temperament which pertains 
thereto, it is no less true that a practical acquaintance 
with the laws of diet and digestion becomes also a 
power in the combat with disease, not far inferior to 
the other in importance. 

My last word, then, no less than my first, shall 
testify to the value for all men of some knowledge 
in relation to their Food and Feeding. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



APPENDIX. 



ON THE POT-AU-FEU, SOUPS, ETC. 

Pot-au-ftu: Jnles Gouffe's instructions for making it — Gouffd's in- 
structions for braising — Bccuf h la mode — Vegetable Soup — 
Author's directions for beef-tea — ^Table of French equivalents 
for the English words denoting fish, as a guide in writing menus 
— Table showing when fish is in season — Children's dinner tables 
— Author's receipt for cheap, nutritious soup — ^The dinner of the 
working man, and Mr. Atkinson's suggestions respecting it. 

The Pot-au-feu. 

The pot-athfeuy or pure beef stock, flavoured with vege- 
tables, has long been regarded as the type of a foundation 
stock for soup-making by all the great leaders of French 
cookery, for a century or more. The broth obtained by the 
process is known as bouillon ; and the portion of meat being 
maintained intact, not torn or cut in pieces, was in former 
days invariably served after it as a hot dish to be eaten, 
bouilli^ containing as it did a good deal of nutritious matter 
not to be extracted by hot water, but obtained by the 
consumer through the action of digestion in the stomach. 
Such is still the habit of the French peasant and artisan, 
and is unquestionably the most complete and economical 
mode of extracting all the nourishing qualities of the meat. 

But the pot-au-feu^ for modem purposes, now appears in 
any society, however cultivated, as a valuable and agreeable 



Digitized by 



Google 



286 Food and Feeding. 

clear soup, and the process of making it will be given with 
all necessary details. These are shorter and more simple 
than the extremely full directions given by Goufifi^, in his 
classical work " Le Livre de la Cuisine," which in previous 
editions of the present volume were translated at consider- 
able length.* 

Take an ordinary gallon stock-pot of copper tmned, with 
a cover for occasional use only. Ingredients: 2 lbs. of 
good fresh lean beef from the leg, with \ lb. of bone ; 
six ounces each of carrots, turnips, leeks, and onions, one 
of celery and two of parsnips ; a clove stuck in an onion, 
and a small bunch of kitchen herbs, parsley, th3rme, and 
chervil \ a rather small teaspoonful of salt ; four and a half 
pints of water. 

Crush the bones well with a mallet, putting them intathe 
pot first Cut the meat into small morsels, an inch or a 
little more each way, removing all the fat, and laying them 
on the bones. Next, pour in all the water cold; and place 
the pot without its cover on the corner of a steady gentle 
fire or gas ring. Add the salt, and bring gently to the boil. 
As soon as the scum rises, remove it with a perforated 
spoon, and when the liquor boils, pour in a small cupful of 
cold water to check it and make the scum rise. Bring it 
slowly again to boiling at least twice, scumming and check- 
ing with cold water as before each time, which should 
suffice. Meanwhile, having sliced the vegetables named, 
now add them to the pot, which again checks the boiling 
for a time. When it begins again, draw the pot aside so 
that it now only simmers, which it should continue to do 

* J. Gouff(6, **Le Livre de la Cuisine," pp. 39-47. Paris: 1867. 
Thus he writes: "The production of a goodi pot-au-feu seems to me 
to be one of those operations, at the same time elementary and 
fundamental, with which it is of the highest importance to render 
every one familiar, as soon as domestic cooking is treated of." 



Digitized by 



Google 



Gouffd's Directions, Rdsumd. 287 

for three or four hours. But the vegetables and herbs 
should be removed and set aside when the former are well 
cooked, after which they must not remain in the pot, the 
meat only remaining until the end of the process. 

The liquor is now to be poured off into a perfectly clean 
vessel until cold, and any fat thereon removed. It ought 
to be clear, with an agreeable odour and colour. The 
quantity of soup resulting should be diminished about 
one-third by the process, and should suffice for six or eight 
persons. 

It is generally served at table now with a few full-sized 
thin slices of freshly cooked carrot, turnip, and leek, in which 
case it would be more properly termed i lapaysanne. The 
addition of a rather thin slice of the crust of a loaf, one to 
each plate, constitutes it a croUte aupoU 

The bouillon^ or good clear beef-broth, produced by the 
pot-au-feu, is the basis of all brown soups. And a decoction 
of veal and veal bones, with fowl and vegetables as before, 
similarly treated in all respects, is, or should be, employed 
as the basis of all white soups, clear or purees. 

A consomm'e is a stronger decoction of meat than the 
bouillon^ with a fuller body and flavour. Compared with 
the receipt for the pot-au-feu, and using the same quantity 
of water, beef bones, and vegetables there required, add 
half the weight of veal (meat and bone) as that of the 
beef, and proceed in all particulars of boiling, skimming, 
simmering, etc., as for the pot-au-feu. It is to be presented 
perfectly clear when finished, and, if necessary, must be 
clarified in the usual manner (for which, see a good cookery 
manual). 

Or a consomme may be made by using the beef bouillon 
in place of water, adding the additional veal recommended 
above, and repeating the process of the pot-au-feu just 
referred to. For a consommi of game, adopt the pot-au-feu 



Digitized by 



Google 



288 Food and Feeding. 

process, together with grouse, partridge, or hare, as preferred 
in weight, at least equal to half the weight of stock meat 
used. For a amsommk of fowl, adopt the same process as 
above advised, but with a proportionately increased weight 
of veal and fowl, to the water used for the white bouillon 
above, together with vegetables deemed appropriate. 



Ordinary Braising. 

Jules Gouffif's instructions for Bccuf d la modcy referred 
to at p. 107 — 

" Take about 4 lbs. of thick beef-steak cut square. Lard 
the meat and place it in a stewpan with rather less than a 
pint of white wine, a pint of stock, a pint of cold water, 
two calves' feet already boned and blanched, and two or 
three slices of bacon. Put it on the fire, adding about half 
an ounce of salt Make it boil, and skim it as for a pot- 
aurfeu; next, having skimmed it, add fully i lb. of carrots, 
one onion, three cloves, one faggot of herbs, and two pinches 
of pepper. Place the stewpan on the comer of the stove, 
cover it, and allow it to simmer very gently for four or 
five hours at least. Try the meat with a skewer to ascer- 
tain when it is sufficiently cooked ; then put it on a dish 
with the carrots and the calves' feet, and keep them 
covered up hot until serving. Next, strain the gravy 
through a fine tammy ; remove carefully every atom of 
grease, and reduce it over the fire about a quarter. 
Lastly, place the beef on the dish for serving; add the 
calves' feet, each having been cut in eight pieces, the 
carrots cut into pieces the size of a cork, and ten glazed 
onions. Arrange the calves' feet, carrots, and onions 
round the beef, pour the sauce over the meat, keeping 
the surplus for the next day. Taste it, in order to ascer- 
tain if sufficiently seasoned." 



Digitized by 



Google 



For Soups and Braising. 289 

Gouffd continues: "The important question, after the 
choice of the meat, is the cooking, which must be done 
entirely by slow simmering ; and this is one of the most 
essential points for success. For when exposed to a hot 
fire the result is a white, watery, insipid gravy, such as is 
too often found in kitchens where cooking is carelessly 
done. The gravy ought to be red in colour, rather gelatinous 
in consistence, and full of the agreeable flavour and nutri- 
tive matter of both meat and vegetables, which is the dis- 
tinctive mark of the dish. To obtain this excellent quality, 
the vegetables should be put into the braising-pot at the 
proper time, so that all are cooked together." * 

I cannot resist adding that Gouffi^'s directions amount 
almost to an early step in the direction of the slow process 
in cookery, which I have advocated so much during the 
last few years. This braise would probably be still more 
excellent if, after the initial boiling and skimming, it were 
submitted only to a temperature not exceeding 175° Fahr. 
during seven or eight hours. 

Consomfnk of Fresh Vegetable Roots from Gouff'e. 

Cut in slices 2^ lbs. of carrots and the same weight of 
onions ; put them in a stewpan with some parsley, thyme, 
shalot, and celery, and also i lb. 2 ozs. of butter. 

Fry gently to a red colour, add 8f pints of water, let it 
boil, and skim it 

Next put into it \\ pint of peas and a couple of 
lettuces. 

Then add li oz. of salt, \ oz. of whole pepper, i pinch 
of nutmeg, 3 cloves, if pint of dried peas, if pint of white 
haricots. 

Let it simmer for three hours at the side of the fire, skim 

• J. Goufl«, •* Le Livre de Cuisine," pp. 126-128. Paris : 1867. 

T 



\ 



Digitized by 



Google 



290 Food and Feeding. 

off the grease and strain through a cloth ; then put aside 
for use (Op. cit^ pp. 348, 349). 

This consommh may form the basb of spring ^oxv^JuHmne^ 
brunoise^ aux ceufs pochts^ ^^fy^ etc, fresh vegetables and 
other materials being added, sdfter the analogy in each case 
of the potages gras. 



The Author's Directions for Making Good 
Beef-tea. 

Chop fine or mince with a machine, a pound and a half 
of gravy beef fi"om which the fat has been removed. 

Place it in an earthen jar with a lid, add a pint of cold 
water, and let it remain an hour, occasionally stirring and 
pressing the meat firmly with an iron spoon. Then place 
the jar, with the lid on, in a saucepan large enough to cover 
it, with water sufficient to reach nearly to the lid, but not 
near enough when gently boiling to rise above it and enter 
the jar. 

The water in the saucepan is to be kept at about boiling 
point or a little under, at the comer of the fire, for three 
hours, adding a little water occasionally, to replace that 
which evaporates. 

When the time has expired the jar may be removed, the 
beef-tea drained from the meat, which is then to be pressed 
as closely as possible through a coarse straining cloth so as 
to extract all the liquid. 

After standing a short time the beef-tea will become 
clear, much light brown flaky matter falling to the bottom. 
By no means remove this, as it is nutritious material, 
unless any special orders have been given to the contrary. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Receipt for Beef -tea. 291 

When cold, the fluid will be slightly gelatinous, varying 
somewhat as the meat used may vary in the amount of skin, 
tendon, or other fibrous tissue contained therein. 

If, however, " shin of beef," which, of course, includes 
bone, is used as well as gravy beef, say a pound of each, 
add the meat detached from the bone to the pound of 
gravy beef and treat them together as already described ; 
but utilize the bone by breaking it with a chopper or 
hammer, after which the pieces are to be placed in a small 
saucepan apart, with a pint of cold water, for an hour. 
Then the whole is to be slowly brought to boiling point, 
and to be maintained at the same imtil the liquid is 
reduced to the third of a pint, which is to be strained off 
and mixed with the beef-tea already made ; a firm jelly will 
result when cold. A strong solution of gelatine has thus 
been added to the meat extractives and albumen obtained 
by the first process, materially improving the value of the 
compound. 

When cold, remove the small quantity of fat which is 
always to be found on the surface, and heat what is 
required, as wanted. If the beef-tea is to be served as 
soon as made without cooling, remove as much of the fat 
as possible with a teaspoon, and the small remainder by 
means of white blotting-paper. 

No better vessel exists for the treatment of the meat 
(not for the bones) than a small Warren pot (see p. 99). 

Then it should be remembered that the beef-tea can be 
rendered far more nutritious, when the invalid is able to take 
any solid addition, by adding thereto a small quantity of 
well-minced rump-steak. For this purpose the meat should 
be brought to the condition of pulp by passing it three or 
four times through the best mincing machine which can be 
obtained, after having broiled the meat lightly only (see 
Mincing at pp. 168, 169). 



Digitized by 



Google 



292 



Food and Feeding. 



ON MENU WRITING. 

Question sometimes arises in writing nunus as to the 
correct word in French for each species of fish with which 
we are familiar in England. Referred to at p. 256. A list 
is here supplied — 



Salmon • 


sanmon, mase. 


Trout 


truite,y2wf. 


Turbot . . 


turbot, m. 


Brill 


barbae./. 


John Dory 


St Pierre, m. 


Cod 


cabillaad, m. 


Salt cod . 


morue,/ 


Haddock . 


aigrefin, tn, ; merluche,/ 


Whiting . 


merlan, #•. 


Sole . . 


sole,/. 


Red mullet 


rouget, M. 


Smelt 


6perlan, m. 


Whitebait 


blanchaille,/ 


Plaice . 


plie,/ 


Flounder . 


carrelet, m. 


Gray mullet 


mnlet, m. 


Skate 


raie,/ 


Sturgeon . 


esturgeon, m. 


Ling 


lingue,/ 


Bream 


br^me,/ 


Mackerel . 


maquereau, m. 


Herring . 


hareng, m. 


Sardine . 


sardine,/ 


Gurnard . 


gurnard, grondin, m. 


Pike 


brochet, m. 


Carp 


carpe,/ 


Perch . 


perche, f. 


Grayling . 


ombre,/ 


Eel 


anguille, /. 


Crayfish . 


^crevisse,/ 


Shrimp . 


crevette, f» 


Prawn 


chevrette,/ 


Crab 


crabe, toevisse de mer, m. 


Lobster • 


homard, m. 


Oysters . 


hultres. 


Mussels . 


monies. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Fish in Season. 



293 



MONTHS OF THE YEAR WHEN FISH IS IN 
PINE CONDITION. 

The spaces are in that case left blank ; when not fine a 
X is placed under the month. It may often be fairly good 
when the month is crossed, but it is not fine. Referred to 
at p. 251. 



F»h. 


•^ 


1 


1 


1 

X 


1 

X 


X 


X 


< 


i 


i 


^ 


1 


BriU . 










Cod . . . 












X 


X 


X 


X 








Crab . 


X 


X 


X 


X 










X 


X 


X 


X 


Dory . 


X 


X 








X 


X 












Ed . . . 










X 


X 


X 












Flounder . 


X 








X 


X 










X 


X 


Grayling . 
Gurnard 


X 

X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 






X 


X 


X 


Haddock . 






X 


X 


X 
















Hake. 




X 


X 


X 


X 
















HaUbut . 








X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 








Herring 


X 






X 


X 
















Ud%. 










X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 






Lobster 


X 




















X 


X 


Mackerel . 
















X 


X 


X 






Mullet (red) 


X 


X 


X 
















X 


X 


>» (grey) ^ . 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 










X 


X 


Mussel . 








X 


X 


X 


X 












Oyster 










X 


X 


X 


X 


X 








Pike . 






X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 








Plaice 




X 


X 


X 


















Prawn 


X 




















X 


X 


Salmon 


X 


X 














X 


X 


X 


X 


Sea trout . 


X 


X 














X 


X 


X 


X 


Skate. 






1 

1 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 








Smelt 










X 


X 


X 


X 










Sole . 






X 


X 


















Sturgeon 








X 


X 


X 


X 


X 










Trout 


X 


X 


X 














X 


X 


X 


Turbot 


X 


X 


















X 


X 


Whitebait . 


X 


X 














X 


X 


X 


X 


Whiting . 






X 














— -^ 



Digitized by 



Google 



294 Food and Feeding. 



The Children's Dinner Table. 

This has become so well known and so popular an in- 
stitution that I can scarcely leave it unnoticed. The more 
so as its origin is, I may be permitted to say, not without 
interest personal to myself. 

Victor Hugo, when an exile in Guernsey, established a 
substantial meat dinner for very poor children, in the belief 
that even this amount of good nourishment, supplied once 
or twice a week, would afford them valuable aid during the 
period of rapid growth, by developing the constitution of 
these young people, and thus improve the stamina of the 
rising generation. And he advocated the general adoption 
of the system from this point of view, in some letters on 
the subject in the local press in the year 1865. By some 
means these fell into the hands of Lady (at that time Mrs.) 
Thompson, who forthwith resolved to try the experiment in 
Marylebone. Having consulted the clergyman of the 
parish, who approved the plan, she at once issued the 
following prospectus : — 

*' It is proposed to supply hot dinners of wholesome food for poor 
children, especially those who are, or have been in bad health, and 
who need more nutritious diet than their homes afford. 

« On and after the beginning of October it is intended to engage 
a room where twice a week such children may come for a meal of 
meat, vegetables, and bread, all of the best quality ; and where, with 
only just enough discipline to insure good order and behaviour, their 
hunger shall be satisfied, the means of restored health provided, and 
habits of neatness taught. 

" The room will be in the immediate neighbourhood of High Street, 
Marylebone. 

" The arrangements are in active progress, but the cost of furniture 
and kitchen utensils involves some outlay, hence immediate donations 
are earnestly solicited for this purpose. 

" Further, any person may become a subscriber by paying the sum 
of y. 6</., which will entitle him or her to ten tickets, and to the 
privil^e of sending children to that number of dinners— each child 



Digitized by 



Google 



Children s Dinner Table. 295 

paying one penny for every dinner afforded. The ticket must be left 
at the room before 9 o'clock on the morning of the day on which 
its recipient will dine, so that the number may be provided for. The 
dinners will commence in October and continue till July. 

" Tickets will be sure of beneficial distribution if forwarded to any 
of the neighbouring hospitals or local dispensaries, to the clergy, or the 
district visitors. 

" A list of these, and full information on all points connected with 
the establishment of this * Children's Dinner Table,' may be obtained 
by those willing to co-operate, on application to Mrs. Eyre, 20, Upper 
Wimpole Street ; or Mrs. Henry Thompson, Treasurer, 35, Wimpole 
Street; or Mrs. H. G. Wright, Secretary, 23, Somerset Street, 
Portman Square. Subscriptions may be paid to the Bankers, Sir 
S. Scott & Co., I, Cavendish Square. Tickets may be had at 
Thomas & Co.'s Stationery Warehouse, 21, Great Marylebone Street. 

''August, 1866." 

The scheme was well supported by friends and neigh- 
bours, and came into operation early in October. Her 
first report thereon (also now before me), dated November 
of that year, and therefore when the plan had been tried 
only six weeks, shows that the dinners had been provided 
" every Wednesday and Saturday at 12 o'clock. The room 
accommodates 60 children: at present (November, 1886) 
the largest attendance has been 44." And it goes on to 
say that '* a dinner can be sent to a child too ill to attend, 
if the messenger applies at the room before nine in the 
morning," etc. — a further development of the original plan. 

This was the first public children's free dinner-table 
provided in this country. Victor Hugo was delighted with 
this endeavour to realize his idea in London, and wrote to 
the pioneer of his views here earnestly and encouragingly 
to persevere in her work. 

From that time to the present day, this institution has 
continued under the same management, and has been very 
popular and well supported, so that its funds and operations 
have been largely increased. A kitchen open daily for good 
and cheap soup has been associated witli it For many 



Digitized by 



Google 



296 Food and Feeding. 

years the plan has been greatly extended so as to supply 
also adults, both healthy and invalid, of the poorer classes, 
every day in the week except Sunday, not only with 
dinners and soup, but also with beef-tea and rice milk^ and 
continues to do so. Larger premises are soon to be 
erected (1898). 

Author's Receipt for Cheap, Nutritious Soup. 

The following is recommended to make a cheap but 
really good and nourishing soup. Take six pounds of shin 
of beef j the bone to be broken into small fragments and 
set, together with the meat cut up fine or minced, to stand 
two hours in a gallon of water, at about 90^ to 100°, 
occasionally stirring. Then drain off all the liquor; sepa- 
rate all the meat and set this aside. The bones are now 
to be placed in a saucepan with another gallon of water 
over the fire and well boiled for six hours, supplying loss 
from evaporation afterwards by adding sufficient water to 
make up the gallon. The two liquors may then be mixed 
and used as a stock to be incorporated with a furhe of 
haricots or split peas, eta, and thickened by six pounds 
of fine or medium Scotch oatmeaL Meantime fiy in a 
pound of lard, onions, celery, and carrots sufficient, sliced, 
all of which, together with the meat, are to be set aside, 
well rubbed down, and stirred into the soup at the end of 
the process. 

The purk is to be made of twenty pounds of split peas 
or the same of haricots or lentils, alone or mixed, which 
have been soaked twenty-four hours in cold water, and 
slowly simmered until tender, requiring therefore about four 
hours more. Lastly, the oatmeal is to be mixed smooth in 
a little cold water, and added by degrees to two gallons of 
hot water. Bring to the boil and simmer for an hour. Add 
slowly, thoroughly incorporating all the preceding ingredients 



Digitized by 



Google 



Cheap and Good Soup. 297 

with eight gallons of hot water ; add salt and pepper, heat 
to the boiling point, to be ready for use. The result will 
be twelve gallons^ or ninety-six. pints. 



Cost. 



6 lbs. shin of beef 
20 lbs. split peas 

7 lbs. of oatmeal 
Vegetables, say 

I lb. of lard . 
Pepper and salt 



Cooking 



7 6 
o 6 



Or one penny a pint. 



The quality of the above is exceedingly good, and has 
been maintained, as the result of the same receipt, from 
that time to the present (1898) during each season. If the 
same ingredients were treated with sixteen gallons of water, 
making 128 pints and producing 10s. Sd., 2s. Sd. balance 
might be laid out in bread, and a substantial slice given to 
accompany each pint of soup, for the same cost of one 
penny. But even then the soup is stronger than that 
usually furnished at the cheap dinner table for children. 

The receipts furnished by the Rev. Canon Moore Ede 
in his little work, referred to at p. 117, are excellent, and, 
suitable for supplying some variety of cheap nutritious foods 
for such dinners. 

The Dinner of the Working Man. 

Mr. Edward Atkinson, whose Aladdin oven has been 
referred to at p. 117 et seq.^ has recently constructed, on the 
same principle, ''a workman's pail," measuring ten inches 
in height by six in diameter, including a sufficient coating 



Digitized by 



Google 



298 Food and Feeding. 

of non-conducting material, and containing a lamp, two 
cylindrical boxes containing oatmeal or maize meal and 
water, some meat to stew, etc, besides a coffee-pot, which 
will provide him with at least two good hot meals, 
without requiring any supervision, of excellent food at a 
very cheap rate. From his description of the apparatus, 
his own confidence in '^ his assured success," grounded on 
experiments made, the details of which enable me to form 
an opinion, I do not doubt that it may prove a valuable 
boon to an intelligent workman, who is not a slave to custom 
and prejudice. I may say that I have had opportunities 
of observing the dining habits of workmen, notably during 
the winter months, of those engaged in the streets in my own 
neighbourhood. Supplied with braziers containing heated 
coke for the purpose of their work, these are often utilized 
at the midday meal. An iron plate being placed thereon, 
a piece of meat is ruthlessly scorched, hardened until tough 
and juiceless, unfavoured by herb or onion, unaccompanied 
by vegetables — ^to be eaten by hand with more or less of 
dry bread, in alternate bites. A more wasteful cookery, if 
the term be applicable, and a less satisfactory result for both 
palate and stomach, it would be difficult to conceive. I 
have longed to show to them a more excellent way, but 
have feared that any offer to suggest one would be regarded 
as impertinence, or as meddlesome interference on my part. 
A dinner for two persons could be easily cooked in a pail 
of small size, say six inches by eight, as follows : — 

Six sausages id. 

Oat or wheat meal to make thick porridge 

(better than mashed potatoes) . . .1^. 

Bread i}^. 

Coffee with milk i}^. 

11^. 

This is based ou a receipt of Mr. Atkinson, altered a 



Digitized by 



Google 



Working Man's Dinner. 299 

little to meet English taste. The American workman uses 
" Indian meal," that is, maize or Indian corn ground, which 
is not so easily procurable here. Very little attention is 
required, when the method of using the apparatus has been 
learned, and a far more nutritious and agreeable meal is 
provided than the workman usually gets. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



Acorns pontribute to support 
life in some parts, 47 

Aerated waters, 245-247 

Aladdin oven (an American cook- 
ing apparatus), 117 

, its construction, 119 

Albumen, 22 

exists largely in all living 

things, 22 

Analyses, of cereals and roots, 

etc., 43-45 

of flesh and fish, etc., 181, 182 

of milk, 209 

Animal kingdom, a rapid survey 

of, 49 

compared with vegetable 

kingdom, 24 

Apes, anthropoid, 33 

Arctic regions, food required in, 

58 
Arrowroot, 46 
Artichokes, 47 
Asparagus, 47 

as an entremet, 156 

^ cold boiled, as a salad, 174 

— -, how to boil, 156 note 
Aspic jelly as a garnish, 171 
^— , author's receipt for making, 

173 



Atkinson, Mr. E., cooking appa- 
ratus designed by, 117. See 
note, p. 120 

— his workman's pail for cook- 
ing a small dinner, 297-299 

B 

Bacon, an adjunct to starchy 

foods, 58 
Bain-marie described, 99 
Baking, cooking meat by, 123 

of fish, 195 

Baking-powder, formula for, 80- 

SlnoU 
Banana, an important food in 

tropical climates, 47 
Basse, a little-known fish, 187 
Beans, a valuable food, 46, 74 
Becker's cooking apparatus, 1 16 
Beef, excellence of English, 279 
Beef-broth (" bouillon "), 139, 285, 

287 
Beef-fat or dripping, value for 

fiTing, 128 
Beef-tea, 95, 182-183 note 
^— , author's directions for 

making, 290, 291 
Beer, 18 
Beet, constituents of, 46 



Digitized by 



Google 



302 



Index. 



Beet, cooked in stlad, 175 
Bigarade sauce, 153 
— -, author's receipt, 154 
Bilious attacks, causes of, 17, 82 
Bisques, 145, 260 
Boeaf-ji-la-mode, 107 

y Gouff^'s receipt for, 288 

Boiling, cooking meat by, 93, 

95 

offish, 196 

ofvegeUbles, 104 

Bouillabaisse, Marseillaise, 146 

* receipt for making, 199, 200 
• ^ Thackeray's lines on, 146 

note 
Bouilli, 138, 139 
BouiUon, 139, 28s, 287 

, constituents of grand, 140 

Bram-workers, food for, 69-72 
Braising, 108 

— -, illustrations of process, 109- 
112 

% ordinary, Goufl« receipt, 

288, 289 

i principles of, 109 

Bread, "Baker's bread" made 
in London is often unpalatable 
and indigestible, 281 

, black, inferior to wheaten, 

57 

y butter or cheese required 

by, 87 

, constituents of wheaten, 44, 

180 

y rarely seen in Norway and 

Sweden, 57 

, whole wheat-meal, 73, 78 

% "— , best form for baking. 

79, 80 
Bread-fruit, a valuable food, 47 
Breakfast, characteristics of, 216 
Breeding, 279, 280 
Broiling, cooking meat by, 124 | 



Bumey-Yeo, I., M.D.,on "Food 
in Health and Disease," 26 noU 

Burton, Mr. W., fish-oven made 
by, 194 noU 

Butcher's meat, 68 

^ constituents of, 179, 180, 

181 

y wasteful use of, by English 

artisans, 64, 68 
Butter, English melted, 153 



Cabbages as food, 47 
Cakes, whole-meal, receipt for. 
80,81 ' 

Carbo-hydrates, 22, 43-46 
Carnivorous animals, digestive 

organs of, 32 
Carrots, constituents of, 46 
Casein, 22, 207 
Cat-fish or wolf-fish, 187 
Cauliflower as an entremet, 156 
Caviare, 222 
should be fresh, 271 

Celeriac, 175 

Celery, 47 

% uncooked, for salad, 175 

Cereals, composition of, 43, 44 

contain all elements neces- 
sary to life, 42 

Chapon \x\xfii^ 269 

Character and food, relation be- 
tween, 14 

Cheese, a valuable diet for the 
labourer, 83 

improved by cooking, 83 

largely used by Swiss moun- 
taineers, Z-^ 

"Cheese fondu," Swiss, formula 
for, 84 

Chestnuts, 47, 55 



Digitized by 



Google 



Index. 



303 



at 



of 



Chestnuts as garnish, 156 

Chick-pea, 56 

Children, often ill-fed, 16 

Children's free dinner table 
Marylebone, history of, 294 

Chocolate, 48 

Climate, decides proportion 
animal food necessary, 29 

, in relation to food, 54-58 

Coal-fish, good cheap fish, 187 

Cocoa, 48 

Cocoa-nut, a valuable food in 
tropical countries, 47 

Cod, superiority of fish caught at 
the Dogger Bank, 187 

^ value as food, 185 

Coffee, 48 

, insipid mixture sold in hotels 

and railway stations, 137 

, relation of tobacco to, 243 

Complete food, a, 82 

Condiments, 47 

Conger, excellent for soup and 
stews, 188 

Consomme, constituents of, 141- 
144,287 

— , fish, receipt for, 197 

— — , firesh v^etable roots, 
Gouffe's receipt, 289 

Constipation, causes of, 79 

Cookery, dry, processes described, 
100, 1 15-120 

, French and English com- 
pared, 130-135 

^ ignorance of the principles 

of, 92 

, importance of schools of, 

92,278 

-^— , indifference to, among 

middle classes, 90 
— of fish, 190-201 
- — , temperature a matter of im- 
portance in, ignored, 92, 93 



Cookery, works on, 117 notey 120 
note^ 124 note^ 151, 168, 264, 
286 

Cooking at low temperature, 97- 
104, 107, 109-112 

meat, two modes of, 94 

^ thermometers for, iii, 

frontispiece 

Cooking-pot, Captain Warren's, 
99-104 

Covent Garden Market, inade- 
quate for the supply of London, 
280 

Crayfish, pur^ of, 145 

Croiite-au-pot, 75, 140 

Cucumbers as garnish, 155 

Curry, 85 

, how to boil rice for, 167, 

168 

, when out of place, 234 



Dairy produce, deficient supply 

of, in London, 282 
Dates, largely eaten as food in the 

East, 55 
Dessert, 231 

, wines at, 232 

Diet, circumstances modifying, 68 
, danger of sudden changes 

of, 38, 71 
i soups an important item of, 

136 

Dietary, typical daily, a table, 60 

for the working man, 72 

Digestion, necessary elements only 

obtained through, 21 

^ receives little attention, 14 

Dinner, a complete dinner scheme, 

251 

^ characteristics of, 218 

, contrast of dishes at, 267 



Digitized by 



Google 



304 



Index. 



Dinner, custom of Udies retiring, 

228, 232 

, family, 219 

for poor children, 294-296 

for the working man, 299 

, improvement in modern, 

226 
y menus for each month in 

the year, 255-263 

, menus in French, 256-266 

— , mid-century, 227 

, public, with hints for their 

improvement, 272-276 

, small and select, 225 

, society, 225 

—I suggestions as to modem, 

229 
— ^, — ^ as to small, 235 

, wine with, 232, 237 

Dory, an excellent fish, lS6, 196 
Drinking, early habits of, 18 
Dripping, beef, for frying, 128 
Dry cooking, 100-104, 115-120 

£ 

East, the, food in, 55 

Economy of slow cooking, 1 18 

Ede, Rev. W. Moore, lecture by, 
on cheap food and cooking, 117, 
297 

*^— , his cooking apparatus, 117 

Eels, 188 

Eggs, 22, 27, 29 

— — , new-laid, a luxury in Lon- 
don, 281 

Endive, 47 

as a garnish, 125 

Entries, 230 

Entremets, 156 

Erbswurst of the German army, 
ingredients of, 73 

EspagnolCf or brown sauce, 152 



Fats necessary as food, 22, 27, 

43-46, 58. 234 
Fatty matter produced from seeds, 

nuts, etc., 46 
Fire, taste of the, 121, 122 
Fish, a nutritious food, 52, 68, 

70-72 
, a new method, namely 

roasting, 193 
, baking, gives good results, 

195 
, boiling, a wasteful process, 

196 
"cleaning," by fishmonger, 

a wasteful process, 188 

, constituents of, 181-184 

^ deficient sapply in Great 

Britain, 67 

dinners, 234 

, few varieties used as food, 

184 

, its value as food, 179-184 

^ months when in fine con- 
dition, 293 
much n^lected in this 

country, 189 
should partly furnish its own 

sauce, 190 

soups, 144, 197-199 

stew, an economical, 200 

"tea," \%inoU 

, varieties less esteemed, but 

excellent, 186 
Flageolets, 74 noU^ 15^ 

in salads, 176 

Flesh, use of, liable to abuse, 35 
Flour, composition of, 43 
Flounders, 186 
Food, average requirement for the 

adult male, 59, 60 
depends on climate, 54 



Digitized by 



Google 



Index. 



305 



Food, desirable to use all sources 

of, 39 
— determined by temperature, 

30 

different in Northern Europe, 

56 

, effect on man morally and 

physically, 14 

— ^, elements necessary to form 
a "complete," 82 

— ^, few men have any know- 
ledge of, 53 

^ ill selected and wastefuUy 

prepared, 62 

, importance of its proper 

selection and preparation, 13 

— ^, influence of it and training, 

— in France, 56 

in Germany, 57 

in Italy, 55 

in Norway and Sweden, 58 

in Russia, 58 

in season, 250 

in Southern Europe, 55 

in Spain, $6 

in the Arctic Circle, 58 

in the East, 55 

in the tropics, 54 

, more facilities needed for 

its distribution, 281 

^ necessary constituents, 21 

obtainable from animal and 

vegetable kingdoms, 24 
, resources of man in relation 

to, 42 
, simplest complete forms, 

75-88 
— , ^* taste ** in, to be cultivated, 

20 
— , uses of it to the body, 20 

1 value of inert matters, 79 

France, staple diet, 56 



French beans, 74, 158, 176 

saut&, 159 

Freshwater fish as food, 188 

Frog, edible, 53 

Fruits, chemical constituents of, 

48 
Frying, 125 

^ practical directions, 126 

, value of olive oil and beef 

dripping for, 128 



Game, 132 

— , its nutritive value, 5 1 
Garlic as a condiment, 56 
Garnishes, 1 71-173 
Garnitures for soups, 148 

for cold dishes, 171 

— ^ in variety, 155 

German Empire, foods consumed 

in, 57 
Gieshiibel aerated water, 246 note 
Gigot \ la Bretonne, 76 
Gluten, 22 
^— , most valuable proteid of 

vegetable kingdom, 25 
Gouff(6's instructions for the pot- 

au-feu, 285-287 
— fish-soup, 197 
Gourds, 47 

Grapes abundant in Spain, 56 
Gurnard makes a good dish, 187 

H 

Haddocks, and other fish named, 
excellent food, 186, 196 

— - as an addition to salads, 177 

Hake, a cheap but good fish, 187 

Halibut, 187 

Halles Centrales, Paris, remarks 
on, 281 

U 



Digitized by 



Google 



3o6 



Index. 



Ham, receipt for cooking, no 

Haricots furnish an admirable 
salad when stewed, 76, 77 

— , constituents, value of, 45 

^— , various methods of cooking, 
74-76, 158, 159 

Hart, Mr. Ernest, on the spread 
of zymotic disease, 205 

Hartmann, Prof., on the anthro- 
poid apes, 33 note 

Headaches, sick, causes cf, 17 

Herbs, sweet and savoury, 56 

Herrings, 52 

— , a cheap and excellent food 
for the working classes, 186 

Hoffmann, Fr., on the digestion 
of vegetable proteids, 25 note 

Honey, 48 

Hors d'ceuvres, 221, 222 

Hotch-potch (a Scotch soup), 144 

Hugo, Victor, meat dinner for 
poor children at Guernsey estab- 
lished by, 294 

Human body, a complex machine, 
self-supplying and repairing, 23 

Hydro-carbons necessary for nu- 
trition, 22 



Imported foods, consumption of, 

per head in United Kingdom, 

66 
Indian corn meal, composition of, 

44 
Indigestion, various causes of, 19 
Infants, errors in feeding, 16 
Inorganic elements in all living 

bodies, 23 
Irish stew, receipt for, 100 
Italian pastes, 46 
Italy, foods consumed in, 55 



J 



Julienne and 
soups, 143 



other vegetable 



K 

Kenny-Herbert, Col., "Wy- 
vem," on "Common-Sense 
Cookery," 168 noU 
Kitcheners, baking in, 123 
Koumiss, or fermented milk, 210 



Labouring classes in England, 
dietary of, 61, 72-75, 83, 89 

Lactometer, use of, 209 

Lard a bad menstruum for frying, 
128 

Laver, as food, 46 

an adjunct to roast mutton, 

262 note 

** Leason," a, 152 

L^umes, constituents of, 45 

, food in Italy, 55 

, value as food, 73 

Legumin, 25 

compared to casein, 26 

Lentils, constituents of, 46 

1 nutritive value of, 45 

Lettuces, 47 

— as a garnish, 125 

Ling, a cheap fish, 186 

List of fish in season, 293 

Lunch, characteristics of, 216 

M 

Macaroni, a valuable food, 46, 

86, 161 
y an excellent lunch for the 

busy, 162 



Digitized by 



Google 



Index. 



307 



Macaroni, author's receipts for 

macaroni au jus, 162 

^ ^ ritalienne, 163 

, for other forms, 163, 

164 

, whence derived, 46 

Mackerel, an oily fish, 186 

Maltre d'Hotel, 153 

Maize or Indian corn, 55, 56 

, constituents of, 86 

, largely consumed in Italy 

under the name of polenta, 86 
— largely consumed in United 

States of America with beans, 

under the name of ** succotash," 

86 
Malt saccharine, 46 
Man, accustomed to a mixed diet, 

29 
— ^, born an animal feeder, 28 
, his early experience in se- 
lecting material for food, 53 

, his early progenitors, 35 

naturally omnivorous, 30 

, resources in relation to food, 

42 
Marrows, 47 

as an entremet, 156 

Martin, Sidney, Dr., tuberculosis 

and milk, 206 note 
Mastication, influence of, 49 
, necessary preliminary to 

digestion, 50 
Meals, characteristics of, 216 

, daily, should be regular, 214 

, midday, for business men, 

171 

, stimulants at, 237-242 

, three systems of arranging, 

215 

, water at, 244 

Meat, increased importations of, 

66 



Meat, too much eaten, 68 

, various methods of cooking : 

baking, 123 

, boiling, 93-95 

, braising, 108, 109 

, broiling, 124 

, frying, 125, 126 

, roasting, 120 

, stewing, 106, 107 

Melons, 56, 248 

Menus, art of constructing, 250 

, examples in English, 257- 

263 
, examples of French, 258- 

266 

, for dinner-parties, 249 

, for each month in the year, 

255-263 

, French names for fish, 292 

should be written in French, 

256 
Milk, a "complete" food, 202, 

203 

, composition of, 207 

, importance of obtaining a 

pure supply, 203, 204 
i not suitable for sedentary 

persons, 210 
, nutritive value of, 27, 28, 

51,62 
, precautions to ensure purity, 

211 

should be boiled, 206, 212 

, tuberculosis disseminated by, 

206 and note 
, typhoid disseminated by, 

205 
Millet, 55 

Mills for grinding wheat, 82 
Mincing, important mode of pre- 
paring food, 168, 169 
, directions for use of ma- 
chine, 170 



Digitized by 



Google 



3o8 



Index. 



Mineral waters, use of, 247 
Molluscs or shell-fish, 53 
Monkey tribes, at the Zoological 

Gardens, 34 
— , mixed feeders, 33 
Mullets, as food, 186, 192 
Mulligatawny soup, 144 
Muscular exercise, effect of, 69 
Mushroom ketchup, 125, 190 
Mushrooms, grilled, 221 

, nutritive value of, 47 

Mutton, excellence of English, 279 
— , to cook by dry process, 

100-104 

N 

National resources in relation 

to diet, 65 
Northern Europe, food necessary 

in, 56 
Norway, food consumed in, 58 
Norwegian cooking apparatus, 

102-104 
" Nutritious " food, 77, 79 
Nuts as food, 47 



Oatmeal, constituents of, 37, 44 

Oil, in fish, 186 

— — largely consumed in Italy, 55 

, sources of, 46 

Olive oil, 46 

the best available form of 

fat for frying, 128 

used in Spain as a substitute 

for butter, 56 

Olla, Spanish, ingredients of, 56 

Omelette making must be practi- 
cally learnt, 129 

Onions, 47, 75 

Over-feeding, evils of, 64 



Oyster soups, 145 

Oysters, 53 

, service of, before dinner, 223 



Parsnip, constituents of, 46 

Pastes, Italian, 46 

Pavy*s, Dr., "Treatise on Food 

and Dietetics,*' 45 note^ 59 
Paysanne soup, 140 
Peas, a valuable food, 46 

, constituents of, 73 

, green, 77, 156 

, , how to cook, 105, 157 

, , served \ la Fran9aise, 

158 

Physiologijal necessities for food, 

21 
Pilau, Turkish, 85, 167 

, , how to make, 167 

Pilchards, a useful food, 186 
Plaice, nutritive qualities of, 186 
Polenta, Italian, 55 

— , , how made, 86 

Pollack, good cheap fish, 187 
Polio con arroz, a Spanish national 

dish, 86 
Pork, largely consumed in Ger- 
many in the form of sausage, 

57 
Porridge, oat and rye-meal, eaten 

in the north of Europe, 58 
Potatoes, food constituents of, 37, 

45»46 

, in salads, 175, 176 

— ^, require the addition of fatty 

matter, 87 
, should be steamed ** in their 

jackets," 105, 106 
Potage ^ la Conde, 76 
Potage gras, 146 
Potage maigre, 77 



Digitized by 



Google 



Index. 



309 



Potage maigre, further remarks 

respecting, 146 
Potash-water, English, a trust- 
worthy article, 245 
Pot-au-feu, GoufFe's instructions 
for its management, 141,285-288 

^ ingredients of, 56, 88, 138, 

139, 286 
«« Pot gras," or " maigre," 139 
Poultry, 52 

, cooked at a low temperature, 

101-104 
— , in France, 56 
— — , roasting, 121 
Produce, desirability of securing 

best quality, 279 
Proteids, constituents of, 21 
, presence of in cereals, le- 
gumes, roots, etc., 43-45 

, superiority "of the animal, 

26 

, whence obtainable, 22 

Pulse, parched, 56 
Pumpkins, 47 

Purees, various, 76, 136, 143, 148. 
See Soups. 



R 

Race, influence on man*s mental 
character and physical tenden- 
cies, 15 
Ravigotte sauce, 153 
Remoulade or salad-dressing, 175 
Reptiles, food supplied by, 52 
Rice, constituents of, 44, 45, 85 
^—^ modes of cooking red, etc., 
164-168 

, needful additions when eaten 

in Italy, 55 [see 165) 

, receipt for boiling, for curry, 

167 



Rice the principal food in the 

tropics, 55 
Risotto, needful additions in, 85 

d laMilanaise, how to make, 

166 
"Roast and boiled"— the staple 
food of the middle-class English- 
man, 90 
Roasting, cooking meat by, 120 

, necessity for basting, 121 

, offish, 193-195 

, principles of, 120 

^ taste of the fire, 121 

, temperature of the interior, 

97 
Robinson, W., on " Parks and 

Gardens of Paris," 175 noU 
Roots, constituents of, 45 
Roux, white and brown, 152, 153 
Rubner, experiments by, 26 note 
Ruminating animals, digestive 

organs of, 32 
Russia, Northern, staple food con- 
sumed in, 58 
Rye, consumption in Italy, 55 
— ^, in Norway and Sweden, 58 



Sago, 46 

St. Galmier aerated water, 247 

Salad-dressing, 175 

Salads— in Southern Europe and 

France, 55, 57 
, instructions for making and 

dressing, 173, I74 
, made of cold boiled table 

vegetables, 176 
,the French salade de legumes, 

177 note 
Salmon, crimping, 193 
, how to cook, 193 



Digitized by 



Google 



3IO 



Index. 



Salmon, not obtainable in Paris 

in a fresh state, 192 
— , value as food, 185 
Salsify, 156 
Salt, common, a necessary addition 

to food, 48 
Salts, inorganic, constituents of 

human body, 23 
Sauces, 151, 1 55 
, how to serve with fish, 

190 

, principles of, 150, 151 note 

, two foundation, 151 

Sauer-kraut, 57 

Sausage, meat eaten in form of, in 

Spain and Germany, 56, 57 
"Sauter**— the French cookery 

term explained, 159 note 
Scallops as a substitute for oysters, 

258 note 
Schools, improper food at, 17 
Sea-bream, useful as food, 187 
Seakale, 47, 156 
Season of the year when fish is 

best at table, 293 
Seaweeds, nutritive value of, 262 

note 
Sedentary classes, food suitable to, 

641 69, 70, 89 
Seltzer water, 247 
Shell-fish, 53 

^ as a garnish, 138, 191 

Skate, nutritive qualities of, 186 
Slow cookery, system of, 98 
— , modes of accomplishing, 

100-104 

, renders flesh digestible, 98 

, special illustration of, 109- 

112 
, special thermometers for, 

III. ^^t frontispiece, 

' , value of, in stewing, 107 

Smelt, easy of digestion, 185 



Smith, Mr. L. O., of Stockholm, 
plan of cooking adopted by, 
116 

Soda, use of, in cooking vegetables, 
105 

Soda-water, English, trustworthy, 

245 

Sole, easy of digestion, 185 

— , wasteful process of cleaning, 
189 

Soup : fish, 144, 198, 199 

, clear vegetable, receipt for, 

147 

, Gouffe's directions for mak- 
ing, 289 

, haricot, 76 

, purees, 136, 143, 148 

, turtle, 145 

, white, 229 

Soups, almost unknown to the 
working man, 136 

, an initial course at dinners, 

219, 229 

, author's receipt for cheap 

nutritious, 296, 297 

, excellence of French, 138 

~, garnitures for, 148 

— , how varieties are made, 142 

, judgment required in 

flavouring, 149 

, nomenclature, 141 

, use of fresh vegetables 

advocated, 137 

Southern Europe, foods consumed 
in, 55 

Spain, food consumed by inhabi- 
tants of, 56 

Spinach, 47 

Stachys tuberifera, a Japanese 
vegetable recently introduced 
into England, 176 note 

Starchy matters present in food, 
23, 24, 45» 46, 55 



Digitized by 



Google 



Index. 



311 



Steaming often preferable to boil- 
ing, 105 

Stewing, effective, 106, 107 

Stimulants, 18, 64 

at meals, 237-242 

Stock-pot, the, 138-140 

Sturgeon, value as food, 188 

Sugar, 48 

Succotash [see Maize), 86 

Sweden, food consumed, 58 

Sweets, at the modern dinner, 231, 
235 



Tapioca, 46 

Tea, 48 

, afternoon, characteristics of, 

217 

Temperatures in cookery, experi- 
ments on, 97 

Thackeray's lines on bouillabaisse, 
146 note 

Thornback, a cheap fish, 187 

Toasts at public dinners, sugges- 
tions concerning, 273-276 

Tobacco, effects of, 238 

, coffee, a natural ally, 243 

Tomato, 47 

i simple cookery alone ad- 
missible, 160 

, uncooked and in salads, 

174 

Tropics, food in the, 29, 54 

Truffles, 47 

^ French and English de- 
scribed, 270 note 

, in salad, 175 

, remarks on, 270 

, when in season, 257 note 

Tubers and roots, constituents of, 

45 

, foods derived from, 46 

Turbot, a substantial food, 185 



Turnip, constituents of the, 46 

Turtle soup, 145 

y controversy respecting, 145 

note 
Typhoid fever epidemics caused 

by tainted milk, 205 

U 

United Kingdom, consumption 
of imported foods per head of 
population, 66 



Vegetable feeders, 26 

Vegetable food, its components, 
25 

, not always digested by the 

stomach, 50 

Vegetable cookery, French and 
English, 156-159 

Vegetable-eating animals, anato- 
mical peculiarities of, 31 

Vegetable soups, 147 

Vegetables, boiling of, 104 

, dried and compressed, 

flavour destroyed in the pro- 
cess, 137 

, fresh, scarcity in London, 

280 

, garden, largely used in 

France, 56 

, green, 47, 57, 58, 156 

Vegetarian, a misleading term, 27 

^(Consumers of animal foods, 

27 
Vegetarianism successful under 

certain conditions, 36 
Veloute or white sauce, 151 
Vermicelli, a valuable food, 46 
Vinegar, largely made from grain, 

46 



Digitized by 



Google 



312 



Index. 



w 

Warrbn cooking-pot, 99-104 

Water, aerated, 244 

—' as a constituent of all living 

bodies, 23, 179-182 
— , dangers from drinking 

impure, 246 

in cereals, etc., 43-45 

— , London supply, 244 

^ mineral, 247 

— should be boiled, 246 
Watercress as a garnish, 125 
Water-melon at dinner, 248 
Wheat, composition of, 43 
— , value as food, 73, 78 
Whey, a wholesome beverage, 

210 
Whitebait dinners, Greenwich, 

234 
Whiting, easy of digestion, 185 
Whole wheat-meal bread, 73, 78 

, best form of baking, 79, 80 

Whole-meal cakes, receipt for, 79 



Williams, Mr. M., on the Chemis- 
try of Food, 83, 84, 123 

Wines, 48, 220, 232 

— , use and abuse of at meals, 
237-240, 242 

— , how to secure fine quality, 
240 

Wolf-fish or cat-fish, value as food, 
187 

Working-man, dietaiy of the, 72. 

75.85 

^ hints for improving, 297 

Wyvem's "Culinary Jottings," 

168 noU 



Yam, constituents of, 46 



Zakuska (the Russian hors- 
d*ceuvre), service of, 222 



PRINTBO BY WILLIAM CLOWBS AND SONS, LIMITED, LONDON AND BBCCLES. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 






