TX 715 
.F852 
Copy 1 








LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 



Chap.. ..\.> Copyright No 

Shelf.._,rg_.S*^ 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



THE 



Fredonia Cook Book. 



COMPILED BY THE LADIES OF THE TRINITY 
PARISH GUILD. 



FEEDONIA CENSOR PEINT. 
1899. 






•?8163 



Copyright 1899. 

by 

Trinity Parish Guild of Fredonia. N. Y. 



'■WOOOPIRi.iiSCUlVED. 









Preface. 



The committee appointed by Trinity Parish Guild, for 
the purpose of compiling this cook book, present it to the 
public with the earnest wish that it may be of practical 
use in many households. The recipes have been gathered 
from different sources, and it is believed that they are all 
reliable and practical. It is not claimed that this book is 
an exhaustive compilation of recipes for cooking; but it 
contains many suggestions which will be acceptable as a 
supplement to other cook books; and it will add to the 
knowledge already possessed by many who are experienced 
cooks. 

We are pleased in this place to thank those who have 
taken space in this book for advertisements, for their 
prompt responses to letters and liberal orders. We take 
great pleasure in calling attention to the materials and 
goods mentioned in this volume. Their use will add to the 
success and value of the Fredonia Cook Book. 



/ ' 



Cable of m\0n and measures. 



4 teaspoonfuls of liquid - - - - - = i tablespoonful 

4 tablespoonfuls of liquid = i gill, I cup, or 

I wineglassful 

I tablespoonful of liquid - - - - = h ounce 

1 pint of liquid = i pound 

2 gills of liquid - = i cup or ^ pint 

I kitchen cup = 2 pint 

I heaping quart of sifted flour - - - - = i pound 

4 cups of flour = 1 quart or 

I pound 
I rounded tablespoonful of flour - - - = i ounce 

3 cups of corn meal - - - - - =1 pound 
It pints of corn meal - - - - - =1 pound 
I cup of butter - - - - - - = t pound 

I pint of butter -=i pound 

I tablespoonful of butter - - - - =1 ounce 

Butter the size of an egg - - - - =2 ounces 

Butter size of a walnut =1 ounce 

I solid pint of chopped meat - - - - =1 pound 
10 eggs =1 pound 

A dash of pepper =J teaspoonful, 

3 good shakes 
= I pound 
= I pound 
= 13 ounces 
= I pound 



2 cups of granulated sugar 
I pint of granulated sugar 
I pint of brown sugar 
2^ cups of powdered sugar 



STOCK FOR SOUP. 

Graded Cook Book. 

Allow I quart of cold water to a pound of meat. Let it 
stand awhile before putting it on the back of the stove. 
Cover and simmer slowly. Five hours are required for 
boiling a good sized bone. When done pour into an earthen 
vessel and skim when cold. If desired to keep several days 
leave the fat on until used. This fat may be clarified and 
used for cooking by putting into boiling water. When it 
cools all sediment will settle to the bottom and the fat can 
again be skimmed off. Salt the stock when half done. 
Vegetables can be added to the stock in the proportion of 
I pint cut vegetables to every gallon. The meat can be 
spiced and baked or made into hash or croquettes. If 
desired stronger, use 5 pounds of meat to 7 pints of water. 
When the stock begins to boil, throw in y^ cup of cold water 
and skim, 

WHITE STOCK FOR SOUP. 

Mrs. Jacobi. 

Place in a large stock urn, on a moderate fire, a good 
heavy knuckle of fine white veal, with 2 pounds of good 
soup meat. Cover with cold water, add a handful of salt 
and when it comes to a boil skim all the scum off. Then 
add 2 large sound and well-scraped carrots, i sound white 
turnip, I large peeled onion (split carrots, turnip and onion 
in half), i well-cleaned parsley root, 3 thoroughly washed 

Something modern — VirQt's Extracts. 



to FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

leeks, and a few leaves of cleaned celery. Boil very slowly 
for six hours on corner of the range. Carefully skim the 
grease off, strain well through a wet cloth into a large 
earthen bowl, and put away in a cool place for general 
use. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

M}-s. Joseph Bj-oivn. 

2 quarts chicken stock. 

2 bunches of asparagus. 

2 tablespoons of butter. 

I quart of milk. 

Just as much flour as the butter will dissolve. 

Cut the heads off the asparagus and save in a cup; cut up 
stalks and put in stock and boil one hour. 

Boil heads in i cup of salted water. Melt butter and flour 
in a stew pan and stir in milk until it cooks; strain stock; 
stir in strained milk, butter, etc., and season thoroughly 
with salt and pepper. Before serving put in ^ cup of cream 
and asparagus heads. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 
Mrs. A. R. Moore. 

I pint of black beans, soaked over night in 3 quarts of 
water. In the morning pour off this water and add 3 quarts 
of fresh. 

Boil gently 2 hours. When done there should be i quart. 
Add a quart of stock, 2 whole cloves, 2 whole allspice, a 
small piece of mace, a small piece of cinnamon, a stalk of 
celery and a small onion. Into a frying pan put 3 table- 
spoonfuls of butter, and when it begins to bubble add i 
tablespoonful of flour and cook until brown. Add to soup 
and simmer all together i hour. Season with salt and 
pepper and rub through a fine sieve. Serve with slices of 
lemon and hard boiled eggs. 

Just before taking from the stove add ^ teacup of wine. 

Better than the Best— Virot's Extracts. 



FREboNiA Cook book. ti 

CELERY SOUP. 

Mrs. A. S. Fox. 
4 bunches of celery. 

1 pint of good soup stock. 
3 pints of water. 

]4, pint of cream. 

Cut the celery into inch lengths, put on with the water 
and cook until tender. Take out the celery and rub through 
a sieve, add to the soup stock and cook slowly ^ hour. 
Heat the cream and stir into it i tablespoonful of flour 
rubbed into i tablespoonful of butter; pour into the celery; 
let cook till very hot, but not boil, and ser^^e at once. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Mrs. Burritt. 

20 large clams, 4 large onions, 4 potatoes, yi pound salt 
pork chopped fine, Y^, can tomatoes, i heaping teaspoonful 
of thyme, i heaping tablespoonful Worcestershire sauce 
(just before serving), pepper to taste, i^ large hard-tack 
broken in before serving. 

Chop the clams fine, place in kettle with liquor and i Y^ 
quarts of water, let come to a boil and skim; then add the 
other ingredients; have them all chopped fine; let simmer 
slowly all day. If too thick add hot water. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 
Mrs. Mac Donald Moore, 

2 dozen clams, 6 potatoes, 5 onions. 

Chop 2 slices of salt pork very fine and fry brown. Put 
in bottom of pot a little of fried pork, then successive layers 
of sliced onions, sliced potatoes and clams. Pour in clam 
liquor and add sufiicient water to cover them; season highly 
with cayenne pepper and a little salt. Cook until potatoes 
are done, then add i pint of hot milk and boil slowly 3 
hours. Just before serving, add i cup of cream and 2 large 
spoons of butter. 

Pure, delicate, strong— Virot's Extracts. 



12 FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

CIvAM CHOWDER. 
Miss Heyl. 

25 clams, ^ pound salt pork, i quart milk, 6 medium 
sized potatoes, 4 medium sized onions, i can of corn, i 
tablespoonful butter, 2 tablespoon fuls flour, 4 sea biscuits. 

Wash clams thoroughly with brush. Put in kettle with 
2 quarts boiling water. When shells open, remove the 
clams from them; cut in small pieces. Cut the pork in small 
pieces and fry until light brown; add onions, chopped fine. 
When cooked, turn into kettle of clam water; then add the 
potatoes cut in cubes. When potatoes are half done, add 
clams; cook till potatoes are done, add milk; when it boils, 
add corn and butter and flour (cooked together in spider). 
I^et this boil up once; add crackers, broken in pieces. Set 
on back of stove; lastly, add the yolk of i ^^%, and season 
with salt and cayenne pepper. 

CORN SOUP. 

Miss Jennie Prescott. 

Put I can of corn and i pint of milk into a double boiler 
and boil ^ hour. Strain and add i cup strong stock; season 
with salt and a little red pepper; thicken with one large 
spoonful of flour, worked well into i spoonful of butter (if 
it is the least lumpy strain again). Just as you take it off 
stir in quickly i pint of whipped cream. 

You can use peas or celery in the same way. 

JUI.IENNE SOUP. 

Mrs. Mac Donald Moore. 

Make a brown beef stock; let it get cold, and remove all 
grease. Fry i carrot in butter, put it into the stock with i 
small onion, i slice of turnip, i beet and a little cabbage; 
let it boil 40 minutes. Add the juice of half a lemon before 
serving. 

Equaled by none— Virot's Extracts. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. IJ 

SALSIFY SOUP. 

Mrs. Pratt. 
I bunch salsify, 2 quarts water. Cook until done. Add 
I cup milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, i teaspoonful of 
flour, salt and pepper. Strain and serve. 

MULLAGATAWNY SOUP. 
Mrs. W. B. Greer. 
Cut 4 onions, i carrot, 2 turnips, i head of celery, into 
3 quarts of liquor in which one or two fowls have been 
boiled. Keep it over a brisk fire until it boils, then place it 
on a comer of fire and let it simmer 20 minutes. Add i 
tablespoonful of curry powder and i tablespoonful of flour; 
mix the whole well together and let it boil three minutes; 
pass it through a colander. Serve with pieces of roast 
chicken in it. It must be good yellow color, and if too 
thick you can add a little boiling water and a teaspoonful 
of sugar. Half veal and half chicken will answer as well. 

OYSTER SOUP. 
Mrs. H. Hargis. 
Drain the liquor from i quart of oysters; add this to i 
quart of milk. When this reaches the boiling point, add i 
tablespoonful of butter. When melted add the oysters, 
leaving them only until they curl; when add yi teacup of 
cream and y^ teacup of rolled crackers. Season with salt 
and pepper. Do not add water. 

ONION SOUP. 

Mrs. Jacobt. 
Chop 2 onions very fine and brown in a sauce pan with a 
piece of butter the size of 2 eggs; stir in 2 tablespoons 
(heaping) of sifted flour. Be careful not to burn. Add 
slowly 3 pints of white broth; mix thoroughly and smoothly; 
season with salt and pepper to taste; cook for 10 minutes. 
Place 6 pieces of toasted bread in a large bowl; cover them 

For fastidious tastes— Virot's Extracts. 



14 r'REDONiA COOK BOOK. 

with very thin slices of Swiss cheese; pour the soup over 
them; add 2 tablespoonfuls of Swiss cheese, cut in very 
small and thin pieces. Put in the oven 5 minutes before 
serving. 

This quantity is enough for six or eight people. 

SPIviT PEA SOUP. 

Mrs. Swetland. 

Wash I pint of split peas and cover them with cold water, 
adding ^ teaspoonful of soda. Let them stand over night 
to swell. Next morning put them in a kettle with close 
fitting cover. Pour over them 3 quarts of cold water, 
adding ^ pound of lean ham or bacon, cut into small pieces; 
also a teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper and some celery, 
chopped fine, if you like. When the soup begins to boil, 
skim the surface; cook it slowly 3 or 4 hours — until the 
peas are all dissolved — adding more boiling water, to keep 
the quantity as it boils away. Strain through a colander; 
serve very hot with lemon sliced fine, or toasted bread cut 
in squares. 

If not rich enough, add butter and season to taste. It 
should be quite thick when served. This soup can be made 
without the meat and celery. Season with butter, salt and 
pepper, and serve with croutons. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 
Mrs. E. K. Cherry. 

2 pounds of soup meat, i large sized onion, i bunch of 
celery, i large potato, small piece of carrot, a little parsley, 
I can strained tomatoes, yi cup of rice, salt and pepper. 

Boil the meat 4 hours, and set away until next day. 
Remove grease and put in rice; let it cook on back of stove. 
Chop onion, celery, potato, carrot and parsley, and cook 
separately until done. Pour into the broth with i can of 
tomatoes, and cook on the front of stove. 

For aainty toilets— Virot's Perfumes, Toilet Waters, Sachets. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 1$ 

POTATO SOUP. 

Mrs. Pratt. 
I quart of milk. 

3 hot boiled potatoes. 

A very little chopped onion, or Virot's extract of onion, 
to taste. 

I tablespoonful butter. 

Boil the milk and onion together; cream the potatoes; stir 
into the hot milk, and thicken a very little with flour. 
Strain the whole before serving. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Mrs. S. G. Skinner. 

Place a pint of tomatoes on the stove to cook, and keep 
them boiling until wanted. About lo minutes before dinner 
place a large tablespoonful of butter in a frying pan, and 
when it is melted put into it a tablespoonful of flour, stirring 
until thoroughly cooked, but not browned. Into the 
tomatoes stir ^ teaspoonful of soda, salt and pepper; add 
to the butter and flour, then pour into the whole i pint of 
milk. Strain all through a wire sieve and serve very hot. 

CLEAR TOMATO SOUP. 

'■'^The Colutnbi'a.'' 

I quart of tomatoes. 

I quart white stock or water. 

I dozen cloves. 

I small onion. 

I bunch of parsley. 

I tablespoonful of sugar. 

Salt to taste. 

Boil together for i hour in porcelain or agate kettle. 
Strain through fine sieve. Put back into kettle and add i 
tablespoonful of cornstarch, rubbed into a smooth paste 
with cold water, and a piece of butter size of an o^gg. Season 
with cayenne or black pepper. 

Demand and tiet—Virot's Perfumes and Extracts. 



JH\> and Oy$ter$. 



Boil large fish; bake medium sized ones; fry small ones. 
Fish cooks in from 5 to 15 minutes to the pound, according 
to thickness. 

BOII.KD FISH. 

Salmon should be put on to boil in salt water when 
boiling; also bass and rock fish. To a gallon of water put 
four tablespoonfuls of salt, and a wineglass of vinegar to 
give it firmness. To boil other fish: if a common kettle is 
used, lay the fish on a plate, run a skewer through to hold 
the head and tail together; wrap all in a napkin and cover 
with cold water. When done take out by lifting the cloth; 
serve on a hot platter garnished with lemon and parsley, or 
anything desired. 

TO BAKE FISH. 

Stuff with plain bread stuffing, made of }4 pint of bread 
crumbs, i tablespoonful of butter, small spoon of salt and 
pepper each, i tablespoonful of parsley. Work all together 
and moisten, if necessary, with egg. Fill and tie in shape 
with a string. Wash the roe, if any, and cook with the 
fish. 

FISH CUTLETS, r 
Mrs. Rorer, 
Yz pint of milk; 3 teaspoonfuls of Cottolene; three even 
tablespoonfuls flour; i egg yolk; i tablespoonful parsley, 
chopped; ^ grated nutmeg; 10 drops onion juice; 2 cups 
of cold boiled fish; seasoning. 

Price to suit all— Virot's Products. 



FRKDONIA COOK BOOK. I7 

Put the milk on to boil. Rub together the Cottolene and 
flour; then stir them into the boiling milk; stir and cook 
until a thick paste is formed, add the yolk of egg, parsley, 
onion juice; mix and add the boiled fish; mix again and add 
a palatable seasoning of salt and cayenne; turn out to cool. 
When cold, form into cutlets or croquettes. Dip first in 
beaten egg, then in bread crumbs, and fry in very hot 
Cottolene. Drain on brown paper and serve very hot with 
cream sauce. 

SALMON LOAF. 

Mrs. H. H. Barniim. 

I can of salmon. 

5 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

4 eggs. 

^ cup of bread crumbs; salt and pepper to taste. 

Shred the salmon and mix with the butter, which has 
been beaten light. Eggs beaten and mixed with the crumbs. 
Then mix all together. Butter a mould, and steam i hour. 

SAUCE. 

I cup of milk and oil from the salmon; i tablespoonful of 
butter. Let these come to a boil, and thicken with a 
teaspoonful of cornstarch, i egg beaten and stirred in at 
the last; with a pinch of cayenne pepper and i teaspoonful 
of catsup at the last. 

FISH TURBOT. 

Mrs. Joseph Brown. 

Take white-fish or halibut, 4 pounds at least; boil in salt 
water about 5 minutes; when free from bones, have ready 
the following dressing: 

I large spoonful of butter. 

I scant spoonful of flour. 

I pint of milk. Season highly, to taste. 

Dissolve the butter in the sauce pan; stir in flour until 
smooth and foamy; pour in cold milk and stir until it 

Something modern — Virot's Extracts. 



1 8 FRSDONIA COOK BOOK. 

thickens. Butter a dish, sprinkle in a few bread crumbs; then 
put a layer of fish, then a layer of cream dressing, and so 
on, having the top layer of cream. Sprinkle bread crumbs 
and tiny bits of butter on top. Bake 20 minutes. Should 
be brown^on top. 

CODFISH BALLS. 
Graded Cook Book. 

I pint of potatoes, peeled; i scant pint of fish, picked 
fine. Boil together. When done, drain off water and beat 
together well; add butter size of an ^zz\ ^ little pepper and 
I egg, well beaten. Drop in hot lard and fiy. 

MINCED FISH. 

Mrs. A. R. Moore, 

I quart of cold fish, carefully flaked. 
I pint of milk or cream. 

1 can of mushrooms, cut in half. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Put the butter in a frjdng pan to melt, being careful not 
to brown; when melted, add the flour and mix well, then 
add the milk or cream; stir continually until it boils. Add 
mushrooms and liquor, and pour this over the minced fish, 
and mix carefully. Salt and pepper to taste. Put all in a 
pan and grate cheese over the top. Place in an oven and 
allow to brown. 

LOBSTER CROQUETTES. 

Mrs. S. H. Quinby. 

Take two lobsters and chop the meat fine. Put in a 
sauce pan; butter size of an egg and 2 tablespoonfuls of 
flour, rubbed in. Add to this enougli milk or cream to 
make a creamy substance. Add the chopped lobster, and 

Better than the Best— Virot's Extracts. 



FR:gDONIA COOK BOOK. 1 9 

let all come tt) a boJl. Season wftB s&tt aftd a Htlle cayenne 
pepper and femon juice. Shape wlien cool; roll in egg and 
cracker crumbs; fr>' a nice brown. Drain on brown or 
blotting paper. 

OYSTERS WITH BROWN SAUCB. 

Mrs. Barrett-Howard. 
25 oysters. 

I pint of stock, i tablespoonful of onion juice. 

I tablespoonful of butter. 2 tablespoon fuls of cream. 

I tablespoonful of flour. Salt and cayenne pepper to 
taste. 

Boil the oysters in their own liquor; drain; melt and 
browTi the butter; add the flour, and mix until smooth. Add 
the stock (made from the bones of turkey or chicken), and 
oysters, onion juice, cream and seasoning. Stir until 
thoroughly heated. Serve on rounds of toast dipped in 
melted butter. Garnish with thin slices of lemon, sprinkled 
with parsley. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Miss Parloa. 

Oysters for frying should be large and plump. Spread 
them on a towel to drain, and after seasoning them with 
pepper and salt, roll them in fine dry bread or cracker 
crumbs. Have Cottolene about 4 inches deep in the ixymg 
kettle, and when hot, test as directed: Cover the bottom 
of the frying-basket with a single layer of breaded oysters 
and plunge into the fat. Cook for i ^ minutes. Drain and 
serve immediately. For a dozen and a half of oysters, there 
will be required 2 eggs, ^ teaspoonful pepper, i level table- 
spoonful of salt, and i pint of crumbs. Use ^ the salt and 
pepper to season the oysters, and the rest to season the 
crumbs. If the flavor be liked, 2 tablespoonfuls of tomato 
catsup may be mixed with egg. Remember that there are 
few things that require the fat so hot as oysters, or that 
spoil so quickly if allowed to stand after frying. 

Pure, delicate, strong— Virot's Extracts. 



20 FRKDONIA COOK BOOK. 

SOUTHERN SHRIMP AND OYSTER GUMBO. 

Mrs. Jacobt. 
Chop a medium sized onion very fine; also a medium 
sized green pepper. Place in a sauce pan with a piece of 
butter the size of an ^%%, and a little raw, lean ham, cut in 
small pieces. Let cook for 5 minutes, being careful the 
onions don't burn; then add the shrimps. Toss on stove a 
minute or so; then add i quart of stock (if there is 
no home-made stock handy, a can of Franco-American 
Consomme will answer.) Add 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of 
canned okra, if the green okra is not to be had. Let boil 
for 15 minutes; then add i pint of oysters; and, while the 
gumbo is boiling add slowly, by sprinkling in, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of the Gumbo File; stir constantly until there are 
no lumps. Serve very hot. and with boiled rice, cooked 
Southern style—each kernel to itself. Excellent. 

OYSTER CROQUETTES. 

Mrs. Louis McKinstry. 
25 oysters, 

I tablespoon ful of chopped parsley. 
y^ cup of oyster liquor 
y^ cup of cream. 
^ of a nutmeg, grated. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Salt and cayenne pepper to taste. 

Put the oysters to boil in their own liquor; boil and stir 
constantly for a few minutes. Take from the fire and drain. 
Chop the oysters very fine. Now put y^, cup of this liquor 
and the cream into a sauce pan. Rub together the butter 
and the flour and add this and the oysters to the boiling 
liquor, and cream and stir until it boils and thickens. Add 
the yolks of 2 eggs; stir over the fire i minute. Take it off, 
add the parsley, salt, cayenne pepper and nutmeg; mix well 
and turn out to cool. When cold form into cylinders; roll 
first in beaten (t%<g, then in bread crumbs, and fry in boiling 
hot fat. 

Equaled by none— Virot's Extracts. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 21 

CREAMED OYSTERS, 
Miss Grace McKinstry. 

I quart of oysters. 

I cup of cream. 

Put the liquor and cream in a sauce pan, bringing to the 
boiling point. Thicken with i tablespoonful of flour and 
I of butter. Put in the oysters and cook until they begin 
to curl. Add pepper and salt, and turn over toast or into 
patty cases, 

ESCAI.I.OPED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. H. J. Comtnons. 

Fill a buttered dish with alternate layers of ovsters and 
grated crackers or bread crumbs. Season each layer with 
butter, pepper and salt. Have a thick layer of crumbs on 
top; moisten with a little cream or rich milk. Bake about 
45 minutes. Brown on top. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

Place four small oysters in a glass; add i tablespoonful 
of oyster liquor, i tablespoonful of lemon juice, the same of 
tomato catsup, a dash of tobasco sauce, y{ even teaspoonful 
of salt and a very little pepper; add some finely shaved ice 
and I teaspoonful of horseradish, finely grated. Serve with 
an oyster fork. 



For fastidious tastes— Virot's Extracts. 



BRICK OF BEEF. 
Mrs. Lambert. 
2}4 pounds of lean beef, chopped fine. 
4 crackers, rolled. 

3 eggs, well beaten. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 
A little celery salt or seed. 

Mix well, mould into a brick; cover with bits of salt pork 
and rolled bread crumbs; put a coileecup of water in the 
pan. Bake i hour. Baste often, 

BEEF OMELET. 
Mrs. M. M. Fenner. 
2 pounds of beefsteak, clear beef, chopped fine. 

4 soda crackers, rolled fine. 
4 eggs, beaten. 

^ cup of butter. 

^ cup of milk. 

Salt and pepper to taste; small onion, chopped fine, and 
a pinch of sage. 

Mix in chopping bowl, and make into two loaves. Put 
in a covered pan, with 2 cups of water to each loaf. Bake 
in a moderate oven ^ or i hour. 

TONGUE DE TERRAPIN. 

Mrs. Mac Donald Moore. 
I beef tongue, boiled until thoroughly done. Cut the 
large part of the tongue on one side and fill it with plain 
stuffing. Put in a pan and pour over it i quart of tomatoes. 

For dainty toilets— Virot's Perfumes, Toilet Waters, Sachets. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 23 

Season with salt and cayenne pepper, and add i cup of 
sherry; bake in a slow oven i hour. Just before taking up, 
add a large spoonful of butter. Serve with sliced hard 
boiled eggs and lemon. Garnish the dish with parsley. 

BOUDINS. 
Mrs. H. D. Jarvis. 
Chop cold cooked meat fine. To every pint, add: 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls of Axy bread crumbs. 
yi cup of stock or boiling water. 

2 eggs, slightly beaten. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Put over the fire, and stir until thoroughly mixed. Fill 
custard cups with this mixture, Yi full; stand them in a 
baking pan Y^ full of hot water, and bake 20 minutes. 
Turn them out carefully on a hot dish, and pour around 
them Cream or Bechamel sauce. Remains of cold roast or 
poultry are good served this way. 

BAKED HAMBURG STEAK. 
Mrs. Kate L. Ctcshing. 
Take i &zg, well beaten; mix well with i pound fresh 
Hamburg steak. Add Y^ cup of bread crumbs; butter size 
of a walnut; salt and pepper. Form into a roll 2 inches 
thick, and bake ^ hour. A tablespoonful of water in the 
baking dish; baste occasionally. This is enough for four 
persons, and is fine, either hot or sliced cold for luncheon 
or tea. 

VEAI, I,OAF. 

Mrs. Burritt. 
I Y^ pounds of veal. 
Yr pound pork, chopped fine. 
' 2 crackers. 2 eggs. 
I teaspoon ful of salt. 

Butter size of an ^^<g. i Y2 cups sweet milk. 
Mix all well together and bake. 

Demand and tiet— Virot's Perfumes and Extracts. 



24 FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

VEAI. CUTIvETS. 
Mrs. Lambert. 

I slice of veal from the leg. Remove the bone and tough 
membrane; cut into small pieces for serving. Sprinkle wih 
salt and pepper. Dip in beaten ^"g^; then roll in fine bread 
crumbs. Fry until brown. Make a gravy of i tablespoonful 
of butter, i tablespoonful of flour, xy^ cups of water or 
stock. Season with salt and pepper. Pour over the cutlets, 
and simmer for 45 minutes. 

SWEETBREADS FRIED. 

Mrs. H. Hargis. 
Prepare as for salad, only do not cut. Dip in ^g'g and 
then in bread crumbs, and fry brown in butter. When 
done, prepare in a frying pan a large cup of sweet cream, 
a little pepper; dust in a very little flour; and when it boils 
up, pour over the sweet breads and serve very hot. 

STEWED LIVER. 

Mrs. C. M. Rathbun. 

I pound of calf's liver, i pint of water. 

I tablespoonful of flour, i small onion. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Cut the liver in slices, then again into pieces about 2 
inches square. Put 2 tablespoonfuls of dripping into a pan; 
add to it the flour and stir until brown. Now add the 
water; stir constantly until it boils. Pour it into a stewing 
pan with the liver arid onion; cover and simmer gently for 
I hour. Add salt and pepper, and serve. 

ROAST TURKEY OR CHICKEN. 

Mrst IVm. Lester. 
After the fowl is singed and cleaned ,wash and dry quickly 
with a linen towel. Fill the inside, and sew up; then fill in 
at the neck, and draw the skin over the back and fasten. 

Price to suit all— Virot's Products. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 25 

Fasten the legs and wings close to the body; also tie the 
lower ends of the legs together. Put enough water in the 
tin to keep it from burning; add a little salt; turn and baste 
often. Bake in a moderate oven, 15 minutes to the pound. 
The following is one rule for 

TURKEY DRESSING. 

Take first joint of wings, part of neck, the heart, liver 
and gizzard, and boil soft. When nearly done, add 5 or 6 
potatoes. When all are boiled, remove bones chop and 
season with pepper and salt and a good sized piece of butter. 
Soak nearly a small loaf of bread in the water in which meat 
and potatoes were boiled; add to the dressing. 

DRY DRESSING FOR TURKEY OR CHICKEN. 

Graded Cook Book. 
2 coffee cups of dry bread crumbs. 
Yi teacup of butter. 
I tablespoonful of parsley or sage. 
I teaspoonful of salt. 
I teaspoonful of black pepper. 

Oysters, celery, onion, or any desired flavor can be used 
in the dressing instead of sage. 

ROYAI. SCALLOP. 

Mrs. Sarah Cutler. 
Boil a chicken tender, bone and chop fine. Add ^ of a 
cupful of canned mushrooms, after they have been boiled; 
drain and chop fine. Boil 6 fresh eggs 20 minutes; then 
drop into cold water, to prevent the yolks from turning 
dark. While the eggs are boiling, prepare the sauce : Put 
into a double boiler i pint of sweet milk. Let it get boiling 
hot. Put into a sauce pan 2 spoonfuls of butter; when hot 
gradually smooth it with flour; then add the hot milk, yi 
teaspoonful of salt and a salt spoon of white pepper. Cook 
a few minutes. Prepare i cupful of fine cracker crumbs, to 

Something modern— Virot's Extracts. 



26 FRKDONIA COOK BOOK. 

which add }( cup of melted butter or thick cream. Separate 
the yolks and whites of the boiled eggs; chop the whites 
fine and rub the yolks through a sieve. Now well butter a 
scallop dish; put a layer of crumbs over the bottom, then a 
layer of whites of eggs. Cover these with 2 good table- 
spoonfuls of the white sauce; then same of the minced meat 
and the mushrooms, building up until all the materials 
prepared have been used, covering the top with cracker 
crumbs. Bake a good brown. Serve hot in the dish in 
which it has been cooked. 

CHICKEN PII.I.AU. 

Mrs. Wjn. Shelton. 

Boil a good sized fowl until tender, keeping covered with 
water, salted. Remove chicken from liquor, and season 
with black pepper and curry powder to taste. Clean and 
wash as much rice as desired; add to the liquor and stir 
constantly until most of the liquor is absorbed. Set on the 
back of stove and stir occasionally. Reserve a little of the 
liquor to make ^<g<g sauce for the chicken, as follows : Put 
a piece of butter in a sauce pan and stir in flour until 
smooth, then add the liquor; boil until it thickens. Then 
slice I or 2 hard boiled eggs, to put over chicken. 

CRKAMKD CHICKEN. 

Mrs. Selden E. Stotie. 

Slowly simmer until tender, 2 chickens, salting a little. 
Drain the chicken, and boil the liquor down to % pint. Cut 
the meat when cold into dice shapes. Drain a can of French 
mushrooms and cut them into quarters. Put into a sauce 
pan I large tablespoonful of butter; when melted, add 2 
heaping tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring until smooth; then 
add cupful of broth and ^2 pint 'of cream. Boil till done; 
then add the chicken and nuishrooms. Season to taste. 
Cook in a double boiler. 

Better than the Best— Virot's Extracts. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 27 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Mrs. A. R. Moore. 

3 small, or 2 large sweetbreads. 

I boiled chicken. 

I large tablespoonful of flour. 

I pint of cream. 

^ cupful butter. 

I tablespoonful of onion juice. 

I tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

I teaspoonful of mace. 

Juice of ^ a lemon; salt and pepper to taste. 

IvCt the sweetbreads stand in boiling water 10 minutes. 
Grind very fine with the chicken, and add seasoning. Put 
the butter in a stew pan with the flour; when it bubbles, 
add the cream gradually; then add the chopped mixture, 
and stir until thoroughly heated. Take from the fire, add 
the lemon juice and set away to cool. When cold, roll into 
shape. Dip into beaten eggs thinned with milk, then into 
cracker crumbs. Let them stand until dry, when dip again 
in eggs and finally into bread crumbs, not too fine. All the 
crumbs should first be salted and peppered. Fry quickly in 
boiling fat. 



Pure, delicate, strong— Virot's Extracts. 



aiices* 



BROWN SAUCE WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Mrs. Barrett-Howard. 

% pound of bacon. 

I tablespoonful of flour. 

I tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce. 

yi pint of stock. 

I tablespoonful of mushroom catsup. 

I tablespoonful of sherry. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

I cup of fresh or canned mushrooms, chopped. 

Slice the bacon, put in a frying pan and try out all the 
fat. Take out the bacon, add flour and stir until smooth. 
Add the stock; stir continually till it boils. Then add the 
Worcestershire sauce, mushroom catsup, salt, pepper and 
the mushrooms. When mushrooms are thoroughly heated, 
take from the fire and add the wine. If the mushrooms are 
fresh, cook first in a little butter, stirring all the time. 

SPANISH SAUCE FOR BOII.ED SALMON TROUT. 

Mrs. MacDonald Moore, 

Make a rich cream dressing. Boil and strain ^ as much 
tomato as there is dressing. Add to cream dressing, the 
strained tomatoes; 3 hard boiled eggs, chopped fine; i 
teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce; cayenne pepper and 
salt to taste. 

Equaled by none— Virot'5 Extracts. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 29 

BEARNAISE SAUCE. 

Airs. Barrett- Howard. 

Yolks of 4 eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls of olive oil. 

% teaspoonful of salt. 

4 tablespoonfuls of hot water. 

I tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar. 

Cayenne to taste, 

Beat the yolks till creamy; add the water and oil. Stand 
the bowl in a pan of boiling water, and stir till the eggs 
thicken. Take from the fire and add the vinegar, salt and 
pepper. Serve with broiled steak. 

CREAM HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Mrs. Barrett-Howard. 

1 bottle of grated horseradish, drained from the vinegar, 
and I pint of whipped cream. Add horseradish to cream 
gradually, stirring lightly just before serving. 

SAUCE HOLI.ANDAISE. 
Mrs. Barrett-Howard. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
I tablespoonful of flour. 
yi pint of boiling water. 
% teaspoonful of salt. 
Yolks of 2 eggs. 

Juice of ^ lemon. 

I teaspoonful of onion juice. 

I tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

Mix the butter and flour to a smooth paste in a bowl. 
Place the bowl over the fire in a pan of boiling water. Add 
the Yz pint of boiling water gradually, stiring until it 
thickens; add the salt. Take from the fire; add gradually 
the yolks of eggs (beaten); then add the juice of lemon, 
onion juice and parsley. Serve with fish. 

For fastidious tastes— Virot's Extracts. 



30 FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

SAUCE TARTARK. 
Mrs. C. M. Rathbun. 

yi pint mayonnaise dressing. 

3 olives. I gherkin. 

I tablespoonful of capers. 

Chop olives, gherkin and capers very fine; add them to 
the dressing with i tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, and 
it is ready to use. Serve with smelts, lobster, chops, etc. 

MUSTARD DRESSING FOR COLD MEATS. 

Mrs. G. M. Newton. 

Boil an ^gg 20 or 30 minutes. When cold, remove the 
yolk; mash, and add to it i heaping teaspoonful Coleman's 
mustard, i even teaspoonful of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of oil or 
melted butter. Do not add the oil or butter until the (fgg, 
mustard and salt are thoroughly mixed. Lastly add vinegar, 
or juice of a lemon, until of the right consistency. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Mrs. Barrett-Howard. 

I pint of stewed tomatoes. 

I tablespoonful of butter. 

I tablespoonful of flour. 

I small onion. 

I bay leaf. 

I sprig of parsley. 

I blade of mace. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Put the tomatoes on the fire, with the onion, bay leaf, 
parsley and mace, and simmer slowly for 10 minutes. Melt 
the butter; add to it the flour; mix until smooth. Press the 
tomatoes through a sieve; add them to the butter and flour. 
Stir continually until it boils; add salt and pepper. 



For dainty toilets— Virot's Perfumes, Toilet Waters, Sachets. 



OegeiaDles. 



ASPARAGUS ON TOAST. 

Mrs. C. M, Rathbun. 

Wash the asparagus and cut off the tough ends. Soak in 
cold water ^ hour. Now tie it in small bundles and put 
into kettle of boiling water, and boil 20 minutes; add i 
teaspoonful of salt and boil 10 minutes longer. While the 
asparagus is cooking, boil 2 eggs hard. Toast squares 
of bread; butter while hot, and lay on a hot platter. 
Carefully drain the asparagus and lay it on toast, heads all 
one way. Put i tablespoonful of butter to melt, adding i 
tablespoonful of flour; mix until smooth; add y^ pint water 
in which asparagus was boiled; stir constantly until it boils. 
Season with salt and pepper to taste, and pour over the 
asparagus and sliced eggs. If liked, a little vinegar may 
be added to the sauce, and is a great improvement. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Miss Thompson. 

I dozen ears of corn. Salt and pepper to taste. 

I tablespoonful of flour, i 0^%%. 

Score the corn down the center of each row of the grains; 
then with the back of a knife press out the pulp, lea\'ing 
hull on the cob. Add the beaten &%%, flour and seasoning. 
(If the corn is very juicy, you may have to add more flour; 
but you only want enough so as to be able to turn). Drop 
a spoonful on a griddle or in a well greased spider; brown 
on one side and then on the other. 

Demand and Uet — Virot's Perfumes and Extracts. 



32 FR:eDONlA COOK BOOK. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

Mrs. A. R. Maytum. 

To I pint of sweet milk, add enough flour to make a 
stiff batter; i ^g^, i teaspoonful of baking powder in the 
floiir; a pinch of salt. Add to this ^ can of canned corn. 
Drop in hot fat and fry until done. 

SOUR BEANS. 

Mrs. G. S. Jossely7t. 

String the beans and break into inch lengths. Pour 
over them as little hot water as will boil them, and cook 
until soft. (If young and tender, 20 minutes will cook 
them). Drain through a sieve, perfectly dry. Put into a 
sauce pan i tablespoonful of butter, i teaspoonful of flour, 
about I tablespoonful of vinegar, salt and pepper. Add the 
beans and let all cook together a few minutes. Just before 
taking up, beat up an ^%% light and add to it. Of course 
the dressing for the beans must be added to according to the 
amount of beans used. 

FRIED EGG-PLANT. 

Mrs. L. McKinstry. 

Pare the egg-plant and cut into thin slices; sprinkle each 
slice with salt and pepper; pile them evenly on a deep plate; 
put a plate on top, a^^.d on this a hea\^^ flat iron, to press 
out the juice. IvCt si...id i hour. Beat i &%% lightly, and 
add I tal3lesj)oonful of boiling water; dip each slice into 
this and then in bread crumbs. Put 3 tablespoonfrds lard 
or dripping into a frying pan; when hot, fry the slices 
brown on one side and then on the other. As the fat is 
consumed, add more, waiting each time for it to get hot 
before putting in the egg-plant. Drain on brown paper, 
and serve very hot with tomato catsup. 

Price to suit all— Virot's Products. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 33 

KAIv DOI.MA— A SWEDISH DISH. 

Ennna Johnson. 

Take i solid head of white cabbage. Boil until half done. 
Take up, and let drain until cold. Take beef or veal and 
chop until fine; season with pepper, salt, butter, cream, and 
a pinch of sugar; work all together until well mixed. Then 
take the cabbage, cut off the large leaves, taking out the 
hard stem, and in each leaf put a spoonful of the meat 
mixture. Shape into oblong rolls, folding the cabbage leaf 
all around, and lay carefully down in the kettle in which is 
enough cold water to cover; add butter and cover the kettle. 
Then boil slowly, basting often, and turn when brown on 
one side. Cook about 2 hours. Take up, and serve with 
brown gravy. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS. 
Miss Carrie Pratt. 

Peel the mushrooms, wash in water and cut off the bottom 
of the stalk. Put in porcelain-lined kettle; to every pint of 
mushrooms, add i tablespoonful of butter. Divide butter 
into 2 balls, and roll in flour. Let mushrooms cook in their 
own liquor, with butter and flour, 15 minutes. Add salt 
and pepper and serve. Or 2 tablespoonfuls of cream can be 
added to the above; then take from fire and add beaten yolk 
of I 0.%,% and I tablespoonful of sherry. Serve immediately. 

DELMONICO HASHED POTATOES. 

Mrs. C. D. Armstrong. 

Pare and chop 6 medium sized potatoes. It is best to cut 
them in moderately thick slices before chopping. When 
chopped put them into a baking-dish; season with salt and 
pepper; cover them with milk; place over the top 2 ounces 
of butter, cut into small bits. Bake in a quick oven 40 
minutes. 

Something modern— Virot's Extracts. 



34 FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 
Mrs. M. T. Dana. 

3 coffee cups of mashed potatoes; Ys cup of milk; small 
tablespoonful of butter; yolks of 2 eggs. Parsley, onion 
juice, salt, red and black pepper to taste. Shape, roll in 
&gg and crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 

It is best to prepare them some hours before frying. 

SII.VERTHORNE POTATOES. 

Mrs. R. H. Bartium. 

Remove the thin skin from baked potatoes. Put cream 
or milk, with some butter, salt and pepper in a double 
boiler. When boiling, add the potatoes chopped, and cook 
^of an hour. 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Miss Pritchard. 

Boil, peel and mash 4 good sized potatoes; add butter 
size of an ^%Z, /^ teaspoonful of salt and a dash of cayenne; 
beat until smooth, form into cylinder-shaped croquettes. 
Dip in 0.%% and then in bread crumbs, and fry in smoking 
hot fat, 

OYSTER-PI.ANT FRITTERS. 

Mrs. Rorer. 

I dozen roots; i tablespoonful of flour; i teaspoonful of 
salt; I saltspoonful pepper; 2 eggs, well beaten. 

Scrape the oyster-plant or salsify, and as fast as you do so 
throw the pieces in cold water to prevent discoloration. 
When all are done, cut them into slices and boil 30 minutes. 
Drain and mash through a colander; add to the roots the 
flour, salt, pepper and eggs. Mix; form the mixture into 
oyster-shaped cakes. Fry in very hot Cottolene, on both 
sides. 

Better than the Best— Virot's Extracts. 



FRSDONIA cook: BOOM. 35 

BAKED ONIONS. 
Mrs. S. B. Durlin. 
Boil onions until tender, but not soft. Place in the dish 
in which they are to be baked. Take a sharp knife and 
make a hole in the center of each, putting in a small piece 
of butter. Salt and pepper to taste. Sprinkle flour over 
the top, and cover with sweet milk. Bake i hour. 

RICE CAKES. 

Miss Lizzie Lester. 

I ^gz, white and yolk beaten separately; ^ cup of milk; 

Y2 pint of flour; ^ teacup of cooked rice; i teaspoonful of 

baking powder. Fry in plenty of hot lard, A tablespoonful 

of batter for each cake. 

RICE AND TOMATOES. 

Mrs. M. L. Moore. 

Boil I can of tomatoes, with 3 or 4 slices of bacon and i 
small onion, until thoroughly cooked. Season with salt, 
pepper, a little sugar and a good sized piece of butter; then 
add rice, previously boiled as follows: Thoroughly clean 
and wash i pound of rice; put into a kettle containing i 
gallon boiling water, well salted, stirring occasionally with 
a fork. Boil from 10 to 15 minutes; then drain through a 
colander and add to tomatoes, mixing thoroughly. 

SCAI.LOPED TOMATOES. 

Mrs. Kate Gushing. 

Butter the baking dish. Put in a layer of cracker crumbs; 
then a layer of sliced or cooked tomatoes, v/hich have been 
seasoned with salt, pepper, Virot's extract of onion and 
celery salt. Then another layer of cracker crumbs, tomatoes, 
etc., until the dish is filled. Bake % hour in a hot oven. 

Pure, delicate, strong— Virot's Extracts. 



36 FRKDONIA COOK BOOK. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Mrs. A. R. May turn. 

Wash 6 medium sized tomatoes. Remove the stem and 
core. To i teacup of bread crumbs, add i small onion, 
chopped fine, chopped parsley; season to taste with pepper 
and salt, and wet with boiling water. Mix thoroughly. 
Stuff tomatoes as full as possible, and bake 30 minutes. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Mrs. C. M. Rathbun. 

Cut ripe tomatoes in thick slices; dredge with ilour. Put 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter or drippings in pan; when hot 
lay tomatoes in, with flour side down. Fry on both sides. 
When done place on a hot platter. Remove any burnt 
pieces that may be in the pan. Add i tablespoonful of 
butter and 2 tablespoonfuls of flour; stir continually until 
brown, then add i pint of milk; cook until smooth; season 
and pour over tomatoes. 

BAKED BEANS. 
Mrs. J. C. Miillett. 

I quart of beans; y^ pound of salt pork. Place in cold 
water; boil 30 minutes. Drain; place again in cold water, 
and boil until tender. Add 2 tablespoonfuls of molasses, 
a little white pepper; also salt, if pork has not salted it 
sufficiently. Cut the rind of the pork into gashes i inch 
deep, place on the top of the beans; bake in a hot oven till 
brown. Or, cut the pork into thin bits, mix through the 
beans; bake in a covered dish 3 hours. 



Equaled by none— Virot's Extracts. 



Sundries. 



SCRAMBI.BD EGGS. 
Mrs, William White. 

12 eggs. ^ cup of cream. 

I cup of chopped ham (boiled.) Butter enough to cover 
the bottom of the spider. 

Beat the eggs until light. Have the spider hot, in which 
is the melted butter; pour in the eggs, stirring constantly. 
When they begin to thicken, add the cream and the chopped 
ham, and allow it to cook a minute or two, still stirring. 
Season with salt and pepper, according to taste. These 
eggs are very nice without the chopped ham. 

FRENCH OMEI.ET. 
Mrs. S. G. Skinner. 

I cup of boiling milk. 

I cup of bread crumbs (fine and soft). 

Butter size of an ^%%. 

6 eggs, beaten separately. 

Pour the boiling milk over the butter and crumbs. When 
cool add the yolks of eggs, beaten light. Just before frying, 
mix lightly the beaten whites of the eggs. Fry in butter. 
Season. This makes two omelets. 

OMEI.ET WITH SMOKED BEEF. 

Mrs. M. H. Taylor. 
Beat the yolks and whites of 6 eggs separately. Put i 
tablespoonful of butter into a frying-pan and cook in it for 

For fastidious tastes— Virot's Extracts* 



38 PREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

a couple of minutes, 2 tablespoonfuls of smoked beef. Mix 
the yolks and whites of eggs lightly together. Turn these 
into the pan upon the beef, and proceed as with a plain 
omelet. 

DBVIIvIvED EGGS. 
Mrs. Pratt. 

Boil 8 eggs hard. Mash the yolks fine; add i teaspoonful 
salt, ^2 teaspoonful of dry mustard, large pinch of cayenne, 
I large tablespoonful of oil or 2 large tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, 3 tablespoonfuls weak vinegar, and 4 tablespoonfuls 
fine bread crumbs. 

This is an old recipe. Perhaps "paprika" would be better 
than cayenne. 

EGG SCALLOP. 

Mrs. H. D. Jarvis. 

6 eggs, boiled hard; the yolks mashed and the whites 
chopped fine. i pint, more or less, of cold boiled ham, 
chopped fine. Melt i tablespoonful of butter, add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour; rub together, and when smooth add 
gradually i pint of milk ; boil until it thickens. Season with 
salt and cayenne. Place in alternate layers in a baker, the 
ham, whites and yolks of eggs and cream sauce, ending with 
the cream sauce on top. Sprinkle with buttered cracker 
crumbs, and place in the oven to brown, 

FRENCH TOAST. 

For 6 persons. Take 2 eggs, ^ cup of milk, and flour 
enough to make a thick batter. Cut old bread in thin slices. 
Dip in the batter, and fry in butter. Serve hot. 

ESCALLOPED EGGS. 

Melt a small piece of butter and 2 thin slices of cheese. 
Put in the number of eggs you wish to use. Put in different 
places over the eggs, small pieces of butter; season with 

For dainty toilets— Virot's Perfumes, Toilet Waters, Sacliets. 



FRKDONIA COOK BOOK. 39 

salt and pepper. Now sprinkle thickly over the top nice 
bread crumbs. Place in the oven and let remain until the 
yolks are of a jelly-like consistency, and serve. 

CHEESE CROQUETTES. 

Miss Hey I. 
2 cups grated cheese. 
I cup of fine bread crumbs. 
Salt and cayenne to taste. 

Form into small balls; dip into beaten eggs and fine 
cracker crumbs. Fry in boiling fat. Serv^e with salads. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

Mae Hayivard. 

1}^ cups of flour; ^ cup of butter; i cup grated cheese; 
yolk of I egg; saltspoonful of salt; pinch of cayenne pepper; 
2 tablespoonfuls of sweet milk. Cut in narrow strips, about 
4 iiiches long and ^ inch thick; bake a light brown. 

CHEESE FONDU. 
Mrs. MacDonald Moore. 
Let I pint of sweet milk come to a boil. Put in it i 
tablespoonful of butter. Wet 2 tablespoonfuls sifted flour 
in a little cold milk, and stir into the boiling milk; with ^ 
pound of cheese cut fine, or better, run through meat 
grinder. When the cheese melts, set it off the stove. Season 
with salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Beat 4 eggs separately 
and stir with the cheese mixture. Put into a buttered pan 
and bake 20 minutes, allowing room to rise. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

Mrs. Joseph Brown. 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter. When melted, add i heaping 
tablespoonful of flour; stir until smooth and frothy, being 
careful not to brown. Gradually stir into this, i cup milk; 

Demand and (jet— Virot's Perfumes and Extracts. 



40 FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

let it boil up; then stir i heaping cup of grated cheese. Add 
a teaspoonful of salt and pinch of red pepper. Beat light 
the yolks of 3 eggs with a teaspoonful of water; stir 
throughly into the mixture. Pour into a bowl and set 
aside to cool. Beat whites of 3 eggs to stiff froth, and beat 
into cold mixture. Have basin buttered; pour in and bake 
from 20 to 30 minutes, and serve at once. 



DEIylCIOUS SANDWICHES. 

Mrs. Seldon E. Stone. 

2 heads of crisp celery, chopped very fine. Set away to 
become very cold. Add j^ cup of grated cheese; ^ cup of 
cream, after being whipped stiff. Very good. 

CEI.ERY SANDWICHES. 

Chop crisp stalks of celery very fine, and mix with it 
some mayonnaise dressing, and spread between the bread. 
These are particularfy appetizing for traveling lunches, as 
they keep moist so long. 

ASPIC JEIvIyY. 

Mrs. Joseph Browii. 

y^ pint of clear stock. (Beef used for amber jelly; and 
chicken or veal, for white jelly). 

y^ box gelatine, soaked in >^ clip cold water for 2 hours. 

White of I ^z^; 2 cloves' i large slice of onion; 12 pepper 
corns; i stalk celery; i small bay leaf. 

Put the stock and other ingredients together on to boil. 
When it gets hot, beat the white of the ^.^Z with i spoonful 
of cold stock; stir in and let boil up. Set back where it 
will simmer 20 minutes. Strain through a napkin and turn 
into mould or shallow dish, and put away to hardeu. 

Price to suit all— Virot's Products. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 4 1 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 
Mrs. Laniira J. White. 

When roast beef is done, or about 15 minutes before 
taking to the table, take the meat out, and divide the gravy; 
Yt, to be thickened as usual, the richer half left in the 
dripping pan. Then take i pint of sweet milk; 2 eggs; i 
teaspoonful of salt; i teaspoonful of baking powder, stirred 
into the flour. Use flour enough to make a batter like 
pan-cakes. Pour this into the dripping-pan, over the gravy, 
and bake 15 or 20 minutes. When done, roll up and serve 
on the same platter with the meat, and cut in slices. 

To be served with roast beef. 



Something moderK— Virot's Extracts. 



RECIPES. 

In many of the following recipes, COTTOIvENE is used 
for shortening and frying. COTTOLENE is made of 80 
per cent, tripple refined Cottonseed Oil and 20 per cent. 
of choice beef suet, assuring users the purest possible 
shortening and frying fat, palatable and digestible. It can 
be used for many purposes in the place of butter and when 
it is impossible to use lard. 

For the benefit of the uninitiated, we give the following 
directions for using this delectable product : 

In using COTTOLENE for shortening, all rules for lard 
or butter hold good, except in quantity — one-third less of 
COTTOEENE being required. This must be strictly 
observed, or the food will be too rich. 

In frying, use the same amount of COTTOEENE as you 
would of lard, but care must be exercised in heating. 
Always put it on in a cold vessel— COTTOEENE heats 
without sputtering or smoking and quicker than lard, with 
the same heat. Never allow it to smoke, as it is then 
burning, COTTOLENE should be tested according to the 
nature of the food to be fried, viz. : for croquettes, fish-balls, 
oysters, etc., drop a small piece of bread in the hot fat. If 
it browns quickly on coming to the top, the fat is hot 
enough. Doughnuts, potatoes, fritters, etc., require slightly 
lower temperature, as they must be cooked through wliile 
browning. Test the fat for these bj' dropping in a piece of 
dough. If it rises to the top and browns in one minute, the 
fat is hot enough. 

Better than the Best— Virot's Extracts. 



FRBDONIA COOK BOOK. 4j^ 

RUSKS. 
Mrs. F. L. Gillette. 

2 cups raised dough; i cup sugar; Yi cup COTTOLENE; 
2 well beaten eggs; flour. 

SAEEY EUNN. 
Mrs. F. L. Gillette. 

Yi cup of COTTOEENE; i pint of milk; 4 eggs; i 
tablespoonful of sugar; i teaspoonful of salt; ^ cup of 
yeast, or ^ cake of compressed 3'east; 7 cups sifted flour. 

Scald the milk; when cold add COTTOEENE, sugar, salt 
and yeast. Beat thoroughly, and set it to rise over night. 
In the morning dissolve the soda in a spoonful of water, 
stir it in the batter with the well-beaten eggs. Turn all 
into a well-greased cake dish to rise again. Bake about 45 
minutes, and serve warm from the oven. 

POP-OVERS. 
Mrs. F. L. Gillette. 

2 cups of milk; 2 cups of flour; i teaspoonful of salt; 3 
eggs; I small teaspoonful of melted COTTOEENE. 

Beat the eggs until very light, then add to them the milk 
and salt. Add this little by little to the flour to prevent its 
being lumpy. Strain it through a sieve, filll well-greased 
gem-pans ^ full. Bake in a quick oven about 25 minutes. 

MINUTE BISCUIT. 

Marion Harland. 

I pint of sour or buttermilk; i teaspoonful of soda; i^ 
teaspoonfuls of COTTOEENE; flour to make soft dough. 

Have dough just stiff enough to handle; mix, roll and 
cut out rapidly, with as little handling as possible, and bake 
in a quick oven. 

Pure, delicate, strong— Virot's Extracts, 



44 FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

BUTTER CRACKERS. 

Marion Harland. 

I quart of flour; 2 tablespoonfuls of COTTOLENE; ^ 
teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water; i saltspoonful salt; 
2 cups of sweet milk. 

Rub the COTTOIvENE into the flour, or, what is better, 
cut it up with a knife or chopper, as you do in pastry; add 
the salt, milk and soda, mixing well. Work into a ball, 
turning and shifting the mass often. Roll into an even 
sheet ^ of an inch thick, or less, prick deeply with a fork, 
and bake in a moderate oven. Hang them up in a muslin 
bag in the kitchen for two days to dry. 

GRAHAM WAFERS. 
Mrs. Lincoln, 
Yi cup of Cottolene; yi cup of sugar; ^ teaspoonful of 
salt; I pint of white flour; i pint of Graham flour. 

Mix the Cottolene with the sugar and salt. Rub the 
mixture into the white and Graham flour mixed. Wet it 
with cold water into a very stiff dough. Knead it well, and 
roll out very thin. Cut in squares and bake quickly. 

ROLLS. 
Mrs. S. G. Skinner. 
To I pint of new milk, take lard the size of an ^z?,\ let 
this boil. When cool, add i tablespoonful of sugar, i 
teaspoonful of salt, and the whites of two eggs, beaten stiff, 
^ of a yeast cake, and flour to make a batter. Set this in a 
warm place to rise. When light make into a loaf and knead 
10 minutes. Let this rise, then make into rolls; rub top 
over with melted butter, and when light bake in a quick 
oven about 25 minutes. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Mrs. Kirkover. 
Take i quart of sifted flour; i quart of milk; i large 
tablespoonful of lard (not melted) ; mix to soft sponge. Add 

Equaled by none— Virot's Extracts. 



FRKDONIA COOK BOOK. 45 

I tablespoonful of sugar and i tablespoonful of salt. Let 
sponge rise 2 hours. Add i tablespoonful of butter and 
about I quart of flour and knead 15 minutes; put back in 
the pan and let rise again 2 hours. Put on a bread board, 
roll out and cut with small round cutter; spread with 
melted butter; fold them over and put in tins for baking, 
and let rise again about ^ hour. Bake in quick oven 15 or 
20 minutes. 



BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

Miss Emma Thompson. 

I quart of sifted flour. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

I large tablespoonful shortening (J^ lard and y^ butter). 
About I cup of milk — enough to make a soft dough. 
Mix very quickly, put on a board, roll out and cut with 
cutter. Bake in a very quick oven. 

RUSK. 
Mrs. A. S. Couch. 

I pint of milk. 

3 cups of flour. 
% cup of butter. 

I small cup of sugar. 

3 eggs. 

Yi teaspoonful of salt. 

y^. yeast cake. 

Scald milk and melt the butter in it. When luke-warm 
add yolks of eggs, salt and yeast, dissolved in y cup of 
water. When light add the sugar, whites of eggs and flour 
enough to mould. lyCt it rise again very light, then cut into 
small cakes. Bake quickly. Rub the tops Vv'ith cream and 
sugar. 

For fastidious tastes— VirotTs Extracts. 



46 FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

CINNAMON BUNS. 
Mrs. C. M. Rathhcn. 

Scald ^ pint of milk; add piece of butter size of an ^z%', 
2 eggs, well beaten; add yeast cake, dissolved in about 2 
tablespoonfuls of warm water, and sufficient flour to make 
a soft dough. Knead liglitly and stand away till it doubles 
its bulk. When very light roll out, spread with butter, 
dust thickly with sugar and lightly with cinnamon and 
currants. Roll, cut into buns, stand in a greased pan and 
then in a warm place for about i hour. Bake in moderate 
oven. 

POP-OVERS. 

Mrs. A. S. Fox. 

Beat 2 eggs, without separating; add to them ^ pint of 
milk. Pour this carefully, stirring all the while, into ^ 
pint of sifted flour. Strain at once into greased hot gem 
pans, and bake in a moderately quick oven at least 35 
minutes. If not sufiiciently baked they will fall when taken 
from the oven. 

RYE PUFFS. 
Mrs. J. C. Frisbee. 

Beat together i tablespoonful of sugar, and i Q^%%\ add i 
cupful of milk, i cupful of rye flour, and yi cupful of v/heat 
flour in which is i teaspoonful of baking powder. Beat 
hard and bake in a quick oven. 

MUFFINS. 

I pint of flour, i teaspoonful of baking powder and a 
little salt sifted together. Add to the beaten yolks of 2 
eggs, I teacupful of sweet milk or cream, a piece of butter 
size of an ^"g^. Melt the butter and stir all together well, 
and lastly add the whites of the 2 eggs, well beaten. Bake 
quickly in a hot oven and serve immediately. 

For dainty toilets— Virot's Perfumes, Toilet Waters, Sachets. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 47 

CORN MUFFINS. 
Mrs. Kiiigsland. 

2 cups of sour milk; 2 tablespoonfuls of brown sugar; a 
little salt; i teaspoonful of soda; yi cup of flour; and corn 
meal enough to make it moderately stiff. Bake in gem-tins 
for 20 minutes in a hot oven. 

POTATO MUFFINS. 
Mrs. S. G. Skinner. 

3 medium sized potatoes, boiled and mashed fine. Add 
salt, I tablespoonful of sugar, i large tablespoonful of lard, 
I cup of milk, I ^<g<g well beaten, yi j^east cake, dissolved 
in the milk. Stir in flour enough to make a stiff dough, 
and set in a warm place — at 12 o'clock, if wanted for tea. 
At 4 o'clock mix in more flour, roll out and cut with a cake 
cutter; set to rise again. At 6 o'clock they should be 
light. Bake 10 minutes in a hot oven. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 
Mrs. Kingsland. 

I pint of milk; i &g%; a little salt; 2 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar; i tesapoonful of baking powder, stirred in a little 
flour; and Graham flour to make just stiff enough to drop 
from a spoon nicely. Have oven quite hot. Bake 20 
minutes. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 
Mrs. George Wiley. 

1 tablespoonfuls of sugar; i cup of sour milk; i cup of 
Graham flour; ^ cup wheat flour; i ^^'g; 2 tablespoonfuls 
melted shortening; i teaspoonful of soda; a pinch of salt. 

Sweet milk and i teaspoonful of baking powder may be 
substituted for sour milk and soda. 

Demand and Oet— Virot's Perfumes and Extracts. 



48 fre;donia cook book. 

INDIAN MKAI. GEMS. 
Mrs. Joseph Brown. 

2 eggs; 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter; 2 tablespoonfuls 
granulated sugar; 2 cups sweet milk; i cup Indian meal; 
xyi cups flour; 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Beat the eggs thoroughly; add butter, sugar and milk, 
then meal, flour and baking powder. Bake in buttered 
gem-pans about 20 minutes. 

WAFFLES. 

Mrs. E. D. Clark. 

I pint of milk; 3^ cups of flour; 4 teaspoonfuls of sugar; 

I tablespoonful melted lard; i tablespoonful melted butter; 

a little salt; yi cake of compressed yeast, dissolved in cold 

water. 

lyct the batter rise over night. In the morning add 2 
eggs, I teaspoonful of baking powder. Bake in waflQle irons, 
heated and well greased. 

WAFFLES. 

Mrs. M. M. Fenner. 

3 eggs; I quart of sour milk; i teaspoonful soda; a little 
salt; 3 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

Beat the yolks thoroughly, stir in the melted butter and 
soda, and lastly the whites beaten stiff. Use flour to make 
stiffer than for pan-cakes. Bake in waffle iron. 

I quart sweet milk and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
can be substituted for tlie sour milk and soda. 

WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Mrs, S. G. Skinner. 

I pint of sour milk; i &%%; a little salt; i tablespoonful 
melted butter; flour to make batter the right consistency. 

Beat this until very smooth, and when ready to bake put 
in sufficient soda to sweeten the milk. Bake a trial cake to 
see if right. 

Price to suit all— Virot's Products. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 49 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Clara Anderson. 

I cup cold boiled rice; i quart of sour milk; i teaspoonful 
soda; i teaspoonful salt; i Qgg; a little butter, melted; and 
fiour enough to make a batter. 

INDIAN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 
Mrs. Joseph Brown. 

I &%%; I cup of sour milk; Yi cup of meal; % cup flour; 
I teaspoonful of soda; i teaspoonful of salt. 

Beat the eggs light, add the salt, milk, meal and flour, 
and the soda, dissolved in a very little hot water. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

Mrs. LajniraJ. White. 

I pint of fresh buttermilk; i teaspoonful of soda; 5 eggs 
beaten separately, putting yolks into the batter; salt; and 
flour enough to make quite a stiff batter. 

Then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth; lay in 
the pan with the batter. Dip on the griddle first a small 
spoonful of the batter then some of the beaten whites, then 
cover over with the batter. Bake a light brown and turn. 
Serve with melted butter poured over. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Mrs. L. R. White. 

I large cup sifted Graham flour; 2 cups buckwheat flour; 
I large spoonful of molasses; i small spoonful of salt; ^ 
cup of liquid hop yeast; water or milk to make right 
consistency to bake. Before baking in the morning, add i 
teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a little water. When j'-ou 
add to this for next day, keep your proportions the same of 
everything, and once a week add new yeast. 

Something modern — Virot's Extracts. 



so FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 
3frs. Palmer, 

1 cup meal; i cup flour; 2 tablespoon fuls of sugar; legg; 
2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder; nearly yi cup of melted 
butter; pinch of salt, and milk enougli to make as thick as 
cake batter. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 
Mrs. J. A. Pemhertoti. 

2 cups corn meal; i cup flour; i ^ZZ'^ butter half the size 
of &^%\ 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar; i pint of sour milk, or 
buttermilk; i teaspoonful of soda. 

CORN PONE. 
Mrs. Kate L. Cvshing. 

Take 12 ears of cold boiled corn, grate it; mix with i 
quart of milk, lump of butter size of an ^%%, salt and pepper 
to taste, 2 eggs well beaten. Bake ^ of an hour. 

YEAST. 

Mrs. George Manton. 

12 good sized potatoes; 3 tablespoonfuls sugar; 3 table- 
spoonfuls flour; 2 tablespoonfuls salt; 2 compressed yeast 
cakes. 

Mash potatoes; mix flour, salt and sugar to a smooth 
paste wdth boiling water; add this to the potatoes. Thin; 
put in 6 pints of hot water; when luke-warm add yeast 
cakes. Eet ri,se over night. 

BREAD. 

Take i pint of this yeast for a loaf of bread. Warm to 
blood heat; add i tablespoonful melted lard; mix into hard 
loaf. Put into baking tin; let rise once and bake. 

Keep yeast in cool place in open fruit cans. This will 
make about 8 loaves of bread. 

Better than the Best— Virot's Extracts. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 5I 

BREAD. 

Mrs. A. B. CobK 

Take 6 boiled potatoes, masli fine and pour on themt 
I quart of water. Take i tablespoonful of salt; 2 table- 
spoonfuls sugar; 3 tablespoonfuls of flour. Scald with i pint 
of boiling water and add to potatoes; then add yi cake of 
yeast, dissolved. Set in a wami place until light, then keep 
in a cool place. This is a sufficient quantity for 6 loaves, 
and will keep for several days in glass cans. 

When ready to bake, allow a large cup of yeast for a loaf 
of bread. Use no other wetting. Knead with flour and a 
little lard for 20 minutes. Put in tins, let rise and bake. 

WHOIvE WHEAT BREAD. 

Mrs. C. M. Rathbun. 

Pour I pint of boiling water into i pint sweet milk. When 
luke-warm add i teaspoonful of salt and i compressed yeast 
cake, dissolved in 2 tablespoonfuls of warm water. Mix 
and stir in sufficient whole wheat flour to make a batter that 
will drop from a spoon. Beat well. Cover and stand in a 
warm place (75 degrees Fahr.) for 3 hours, until very light. 
Then stir in more flour, enough to make a soft dough. 
Knead lightly until the greater part of the stickiness is lost. 
Now mould it into 3 or 4 loaves, according to the size of 
your pans; place in greased pans, cover and stand aside 
again in a warm place for an hour. Bake in a moderately 
quick oven 35 or 40 minutes. 

This whole wheat bread cannot be made stiff like the 
ordinary white bread, so must be handled quickly and 
lightly on the board. Always select flour that is free from 
outside bran. 

MY MOTHER'S RYE BREAD. 
Mrs. M. M. Fenner. 
Take rye flour, and make sponge same as you would for 
wheat bread. In the sponge put J^f cup of molasses or 

Pure, delicate, strong— Yirot's Extracts. 



52 FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

sugar (molasses makes it darker). When this sponge has 
risen Hght enough, knead until it won't take any more flour; 
it will take more than other bread, because it is so sticky. 
Put in a warm place to rise, which will take a little longer 
than for other bread. Then make into loaves and let rise 
again. When light put in a hot oven and bake about ^ of 
an hour, 

GRAHAM BREAD, 

Mrs. Esther Cushm^. 
2^ cups of sour milk; i cup of molasses; 2 teaspoonfuls 
of soda; i teaspoonful salt; 4 cups of Graham flour, I^et 
rise 2 hours. Bake % of an hour. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Mrs. George G. Mzner. 

I cup of molasses; ^ cup of sugar; 2 cups of sour milk; 
I teaspoonful of soda; i teaspoonful of baking powder; 2 
cups of Graham flour, and enough wheat flour to thicken 
like gems; salt. Bake in a moderate oven, 

INDIAN IvOAF, 
AIz'ss Lizzie Lester. 

I quart of sour milk. 
I quart of Indian meal. 
I pint of flour. 
Yt, cup of molasses. 
I teaspoonful of salt. 
I teaspoonful of soda. 

Put in a round tin or tin pail, set in a pail of boiling 
water and boil 3 hours. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. S. J. Gifford. 
For 3 loaves. 

^ of a yeast foam cake, dissolved in a little water; i cup 
of milk; i^ cups of hot water; i small cup of molasses; 

Equaled by none— Virot's Extracts. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 53 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar; a little salt. Pour the hot water 
into the bowl upon the lard, the size of an egg. Mix all 
this together and add flour enough to make it stiff to stir 
with a spoon. Put into tins, stand in a warm place until 
light and bake over i hour in a moderate oven. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. D. R. Manley. 

2 cups of sweet milk. 

2 cups of corn meal. 

i^ cups of flour. 

I cup of New Orleans molasses. 

I teaspoonful of soda. 

I teapoonful of salt. 

Steam 2% hours, then dry in the oven for a short time. 



For fastidious tastes— Virot's Extracts. 



MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Mrs. MacDonald Moore. 

3 eggs; % teaspoonful salt; the juice of ^ lemon; aud a 
most liberal sprinkling of cayenne pepper. 

Stir oil into yolks very slowly until they begin to thicken, 
when it may be added more rapidly. Add the salt shortly, 
and then the lemon juice. Have ever>'thing very cold. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Mae Hayward. 

Yolks of 3 eggs; 3 tablespoon fuls of vinegar (i of 
Tarragon); J^ teaspoonful of salt; ^ teaspoonful mustard. 

Cook in double boiler until thick and creamy, stirring 
continually. When cold, add 3 large tablespoon fuls of 
salad oil, stirring slowly all the time. Just before serving, 
add I cup of whipped cream. 

SALAD DRESSING. 
Mrs. Festiis Day. 

The yolks of 2 well beaten eggs; i teaspoonful each of 
sugar and salt; ^ teaspoonful pepper; and i ^ teaspoonfuls 
of mustard; mix well. 

Heat to the boiling point i cupful of vinegar and a lump of 
butter the size of a pigeon's &^%. While this is heating, 
beat to a stiff froth the whites of the 2 eggs and mix with 
the other other ingredients, beating well; then add the 

For dainty toilets— Virot's Perfumes, Toilet Waters, Sachets. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 55 

boiling vine^r, a few drops at a time. Set on the fire 2 or 
3 minutes, stirring constantly; beat a few minutes after 
removing from the fire and set away to cool. When ready 
to use, mix with thick sweet cream. 

SALAD DRESSING. 
Mrs. Seldon E. Stone. 

Boil the yolks of 3 eggs hard; put through a fine sieve; 
add slowly the yolks of 2 raw eggs; stir together until 
smooth. Add very slowly the oil; season with red pepper 
and salt, a little vinegar and a little lemon juice. 

This is a fine dressing, and will keep a number of days. 

CREAM DRESSING. 

Heat Yz cup cream. Moisten i tablespoonful of cornstarch 
in a little milk; add it to the hot cream. Cook a moment, 
then stir in the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Take from 
the fire, add ^ teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, and i 
tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon juice. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

I tablespoonful of vinegar; ^ teaspoonful of salt; 3 table- 
spoonfuls of olive oil; Y teaspoonful black pepper. 

Add salt and pepper to the oil and stir until dissolved, 
then add gradually the vinegar. Stir a minute and it is 
ready to use. 

POTATO SAEAD. 

Mrs. Ward Barmim. 

Slice boiled potatoes, and while hot pour over them 
sufficient French dressing, to which i teaspoonful of onion 
juice has been added. Eet stand until perfectly cold. 
Bacon fried crisp and cut fine and added just before 
serving, improves the flavor. 

Demand and (jet— Vlrot's Perfumes and Extracts. 



56 FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

CEIvERY SAI.ADS. 

Mrs. Barrett-Howard. 

I. Cut celery in small pieces and put in tomato jelly. 
Pour in small round moulds and let harden. Serve on 
lettuce with a circle of mayonnaise dressing around each 
mould. Use Tarragon vinegar in dressing. 

II. A few peas and beets cut in small pieces, added to 
celery, cut as above, is delicious. Sprinkle vegetables with 
salt and pepper, and mix with mayonnaise. Serve on 
lettuce. 

III. Cut celery, season with salt and pepper; mix with 
mayonnaise and serve on lettuce. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Mrs. G. S. Josselyn, 

Boil I dozen fair sized potatoes with the skins on. Peel, 
cool and slice. 2 eggs, boiled hard; chop whites fine, and 
rub yolks into a bowl through a fine sieve. Chop a small 
onion fine and add to the whites of eggs. To the yolks add 
gradually 4 tablespoon fuls of salad oil. Pepper and salt, 
and 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Put the sliced potatoes in 
a salad bowl and with a silver fork mix the whites of eggs 
and onions through, then pour the dressing over and mix 
thoroughly. Add more seasoning, if necessary. 

VEAL SALAD AND DRESSING. 

iV:'ss Matilda Denton. 

I teacup of strong vinegar; a piece of butter the size of a 
hickory-nut and i tablespoonful of sugar. Put on the fire, 
and when hot add the beaten yolks of 6 eggs. Stir all the 
time till it thickens. Take from the fire and add the oil 
(or cream), salt and pepper to taste. Put celery salt on the 
veal. Pick jup the veal, and add as much chopped cabbage 
as meat. 

Price to suit all— Virot's Products. 



FRRDONIA COOK BOOK. 57 

TOMATO JELLY— MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 
M?'s. G. S. Josselyn. 

Heat and strain through a coarse sieve i can of tomatoes, 
removing all seeds. Add to the juice a generous seasoning 
of salt and white pepper. Dissolve y^. box of Cox's gelatine. 
When the gelatine is dissolved, and the tomato juice hot, 
mix both thoroughly together. Pour into a plain mould 
and place on ice. When set, turn on a platter and serve by 
cutting thin slices, each placed on a lettuce leaf, and cover 
with mayonnaise dressing. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. Jacobi. 

Take a young, tender chicken of 2^ pounds. Boil for 
I hour, or should it be a fowl, boil ^ or i hour longer. 
Season while boiling with a little salt; w^hen cooked, let it 
get thoroughly cold. Bone the chicken and cut into small 
pieces, put in a deep dish; season with a pinch of salt, a 
little pepper, i tablespoonful of vinegar, or the juice of i 
large lemon, 3 leaves of chopped lettuce, and a few pieces 
of white celery cut small. Mix well; place it in a salad 
bowl and cover with Y^, cupful of mayonnaise dressing. 
Decorate the top with a chopped hard boiled q:%%, a table- 
spoonful of capers, 12 stoned olives, quarters of 2 hard 
boiled eggs and 6 small lettuce leaves around dish, then 
serve. Very fine. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD. 

Mrs. C. M. Rathbun. 

Soak I pair of sweetbreads in cold water i hour. Remove 
with a silver knife all fat and skin. Put sweetbreads in a 
granite sauce pan, cover with boiling water, and add i 
teaspoonful of salt and simmer 20 minutes. When done. 

Something modern— Virot's Extracts. 



58 FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

put in cold water for five minutes. When cold, cut in 
thin slices. Rub a bowl with onion and make in it ^ pint 
of mayonnaise dressing (Tarragon vinegar added to dressing 
is a great improvement). Put a thin slice of onion in center 
of salad bo wl and arrange lettuce leaves around it. Mix the 
sweetbreads with the dressing and put in center of dish. 



SWEETBREAD SAEAD WITH CUCUMBERS. 

Mrs. MacDonald Moore. 

I pair of sweetbreads, parboiled and shredded in small 
pieces; an equal quantity of chopped cucumbers. Cover 
with French dressing; let stand lo minutes on ice. Drain 
carfully and ser^^e on lettuce wdth mayonnaise dressing. 

TONGUE SALAD. 

Miss Belle White. 

1 tongue, boiled and chopped fine; Yi as much celery as 
tongue when they are chopped; i lemon, chopped, adding 
juice; 2 hard boiled eggs, sliced. 

DRESSING. 

2 tablespoon fuls of mustard, mixed with i tablespoonful 
of oil; I raw ^ZZ\ salt and )^ teaspoonful of red pepper; 
dressing poured over all. 

ORANGE SALAD. 

Mrs. M. M. Feimer. 

Pare and pick up in pieces nice juicy oranges; pour over 
a little French dressing. Then place on the tender inside 
leaves of head lettuce, put on a spoonful of mayonnaise 
dressing and serv^e. 

Better than the Best— Vjiot's Extracts. 



JfREbONIA COOK BOOK. ^^ 

WALDORF SALAD. 

Miss Grace Mc Kinstry . 

Pare, core and cut into dice 4 large sour apples; add 
to them I quart of celery, cut into Yz inch pieces. Dust 
over them i teaspoonfnl of salt, i teaspoonful of paprika, 
and then 2 tablespoonfuls of Tarragon vinegar. Mix all 
together, then stir in 1^2 cups of good stiff mayonnaise 
dressing. 

PEANUT SALAD. 
Miss Pratt. 

Soak I cup of peanut meats in olive oil for i % hours. 
Drain and toss in salad bowl, with 2 cups of finely cut 
celery and 10 or 12 pitted olives. Mix with mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Delicious to serve with duck. 



Pure, delicate, strong— Virot's Extracts. 



CURRANT PIE. 

Mrs. Robert Jones. 

I cup of ripe currants, mashed; i cup of sugar; i heaping 
tablespoon ful of flour; 2 tablespoonfuls of water; yolks of 
2 eggs; use the whites of the eggs for frosting; i crust. 

SNOVv^ PIE. 

Mrs. N. G. Richtnond.. 

Make a smooth paste of 2 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch 
and 3 tablespoonfuls of cold water. Then pour in this paste 
I pint of boiling water and i cup of sugar. Boil well; add 
the white of i o^gg, beaten to a froth, and a pinch of salt. 
Add whipped white of i egg, into which lias been stirred i 
tablespoonful of sugar. Spread on top and put in oven to 
brown. Flavor pie to taste, with Virot's flavoring. 

EEMON PIE. 

Mrs. C. A. Cltite. 

I cup of sugar, 

I coffeecup of water. 

I heaping tablespoonful of cornstarch. 

Juice and rind of i lemon. 

I tablespoonful of butter. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. 

Mix sugar, cornstarch and eggs together, adding a little 

Equaled by none— Virot's Extracts. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK, 6 1 

cold water if necessary. Boil water with butter and juice 
and grated rind of the lemon. Add the sugar, cornstarch 
and eggs and cook until it thickens. I^ine pie tin with rich 
pastry and bake. Fill with the mixture. Beat the whites 
of 2 eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and put 
in oven to brown. 

PINEAPPI.E CUSTARD. 
Mrs. MacDonald Moore. 

Yz pound of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

5 eggs. 

I can of pineapple. 

Cream butter with sugar; add the eggs, beaten separately 
and very light; then the chopped pineapple. The pastry 
must be put in tins and dried a little in stove before putting 
in the mixture. Cocoanut or lemons may be used instead 
of pineapple. 

BANBERRY TARTS. 

Mae Hayward. 

I pound raisins; y{ pound of citron; 4 figs, chopped fine; 
juice and grated rind of i lemon; i cup of sugar; 3 rolled 
crackers; 3 tablespoonfuls of water. 

Just heat through, but do not cook. When cool add 3 
tablespoonfuls of brand}'. This makes about 3 dozen. Cut 
good pastry with round cutter, and add i tablespoonful of 
the filling. 

APPLE TART. 

Mrs. C. M. Rathbun. 

Fill pie plate with sliced apple; add sugar to taste, bits of 
butter and water enough to cook the apples. Then cover 
with a good plain paste. 

For fastidious tastes— Virot's Extracts. 



61 FREDONlA COOK BOOK. 

When ready to serve turn crust on to plate, spread apples 
and grate nutmeg on top. Serve with cream. 

CREAM PIK-PIvANT PIE. 

Mrs. Wm. Parks. 

I cup cream; i cup sugar; i tablespoonful of flour; and 
enough pie-plant to cover bottom of dish. 

Cut up pie-plant, and add % teaspoonful of .soda and pour 
on boiling water. Let stand on range a few minutes; then 
drain, and put in the bottom of a well-lined pie plate. Then 
add cream, then sugar, and lastlj^ the flour. Cut top crust 
a little larger than the bottom of pie plate, and place over 
top, without pinching down. 

MAPIvE CUSTARD PIE. 

Mrs. Barrett- Howard. 

I pint of cream or milk. 

Yolks of 3 eggs. 

I cup of new maple sugar. 

Pinch of salt. 

Beat the sugar and eggs together; add the cream or milk. 
Eine pie plate with good rough paste. Fill with the mixture 
and bake in a quick oven. 

ORANGE TARTS. 

Mrs. S. H. Qui7iby. 

Eine gem pans with good pastry. Bake and fill with a 
spoonful of Orange Marmalade or Conserve. Cover with 
meringue, made of the whites of eggs and i tablespoonful 
of powdered sugar to each ^"gg. 

Put in oven until light brown. Raspberry or other jams 
can be substituted for the Marmalade. 

For dainty toilets— Virot's Perfumes, Toilet Waters, Sachets. 



FRKDONIA COOK BOOK. 63 

ENGUSH MINCE MEAT. 

Miss Matilda Denton. 

4 pounds of beef suet. 

2 pounds of currants. 

2 pounds of small raisins. 

6 pounds of apples. 

2^ pounds of brown sugar. 

yo. pound of candied orange peel. 

Yi pound of citron. 

I large nutmeg. 

Rind of 2 lemons, chopped fine, and the juice of i lemon. 

yo, pint of brandy. 

I pound of English walnuts, chopped. 

Vv^'ash and drj^ currants; seed raisins, chop them, and also 
the suet, fine; slice citron and orange peel very fine; grate 
nutmeg; pare and core the apples and chop fine; strain the 
lemon juice. Mix all well together, adding the brandy. 
Place the mixture in a jar, carefully excluding the air, and 
it will be ready for use in a few days. 



Dematid and tiet— VJrot's Perfumes and Extracts. 



PLUM PUDDING. 

M7's. Tkos. P. Dods, The Manse, 
Wark-on- Tyiie, England. 

4 ounces stoned raisins. 

4 ounces sultana raisins. 

4 ounces currants. 

4 ounces minced apples. 

6 ounces minced beef suet. 

3 ounces flour. 

3 ounces bread crumbs. 

2 ounces lemon, orange and citron peel, mixed. 

Season to taste with ground cloves, ginger and nutmeg. 

Add a wine-glass (2 fl. oz.) of brandy, a very little milk 
and 4 eggs. Mix very thoroughly; butter a mould, fill it 
and cover with a paper or cloth, and steam 4 hours. Serve 
with arrow-root sauce, made with water and seasoned with 
brandy and a little svveet wine. 

GRAHAM PUDDING. 

Miss Stewart. 

I cup of molasses. 

I even teaspoonful of soda, 

1 cup sweet milk. 

2 cups Graham flour. 

I cup of seeded raisins, dredged with flour. 
Steam 3 hours. Serve with hot wine sauce or with cream 
and sugar. 

Price to suit all— Virot's Products. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 65 

SUET PUDDING. 

Miss Ania L. Lester. 

2 cups of chopped bread. 
yz cup of chopped suet. 
^ cup of molasses. 

I egg. I cup of raisins, i cup of sweet milk. 
^ teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in milk, 
% teaspoonful of cloves. i teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
Pinch of mace. Pinch of salt. 

Boil 2 hours in the boiler. Serve with Foamy sauce. 

FOAMY SAUCF. 

Beat I cup of butter to a cream; add i cup of granulated 
sugar. Stir until white and foamy. Just before serving, 
pour into it i cup of boiling water and stir a moment. 



STRAWBERRY DUMPLINGS. 

Mrs. Lout's McKinstry. 

Put I pint of sifted flour into a bowl. Rub into it piece 
of butter size of an egg\ add i teaspoonful of salt; i heaping 
teaspoonful of baking powder, and sufficient milk to moisten 
— about yi cup. Mix quickly; take out and roll into a 
sheet % of an inch thick; cut into cakes with a round biscuit 
cutter. Put about 3 strawberries into each cake, fold them 
over neatly and steam 20 minutes. Serve with Strawberry 
sauce. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Beat butter size of an Oigg to a cream, adding gradually y^ 
cup of granulated sugar; then add 12 berries (i at a time) 
mashing and beating until the whole is perfectly light. If it 
has a curdled appearance, add more sugar, and stand in a 
cool place until wanted. 

Soniething modern— Virot's Extracts. 



66 FRKDONIA COOK BOOK. 

STEAMED CUP PUDDING. 

Mrs. M. M. Fenner. 

I pint of sifted flour. 

I heaping teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Yt, teaspoonful of salt. 

I teacup of sweet milk. 

Butter 6 cups and fill Yi full, first putting in fruit — 
anything you like (canned cherries, blackberries or 
peaches). Steam 40 minutes. Serve with whipped cream 
or boiled sauce. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 
Mrs. C. A. Clute. 

I quart of milk; heat over water; when boiling add ^ cup 
of grated chocolate. 

Put into a bowl the following: 2 eggs, ^ cup of sugar, 
2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch, i teaspoonful of Virot's Vanilla 
and a pinch of salt. Beat together, add to boiling milk and 
stir till it thickens. Pour into mould and set in cool place to 
harden. Serve with sweetened cream flavored with Virot's 
Extract of Vanilla. 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Mrs. N. G. 'R.t'c/itnond. 

I ^&g; % cup of sugar; Y cup of milk; lY cup of flour; 
I tablespoonful of melted butter; 2 squares of chocolate; 
I Y teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Steam 2 hours. Serve cool, with plenty of whipped 
cream, sweetened and stiffened with white of egg. 

HEALTHFUL DESSERT. 

Miss Jennie Prescott. 

Have I quart of new milk. Into this stir a very small 
cup of cracked wheat and i cup of stoned raisins. Mix 

Better than the Best— Vsrot's Extracts. 



t'REDONIA COOK BOOK. 67 

thoroughly and set it in a moderately hot oven to bake 2 
hours, slowly at first, then faster. Stir every 10 minutes, 
so it will not brown. I^et it cool, and eat with cream. 

It should be thin when it conies from the oven, as it 
jellies when cold. 

CRKAM CUSTARD. 

Mrs. T/ios. P. Dods, The Manse, 
Wark-on- Tyne, England. 

I breakfast cupful good cream (about 6 fl. oz). 

The whites of 3 eggs. 

I tablespoonful of pounded loaf sugar. 

Whip the eggs and sugar until they are a stiff, high 
froth. Bring the cream to a boil; draw it off the fire and 
stir in the &gg quickly; then let it (the whole) just begin 
to boil and turn it into a bowl, stirring lightly a time or 
two. When cold pour into a glass dish; season with Virot's 
IvCmon or Vanilla Extract. 

FRENCH CUSTARD. 

Mrs. R. H. Barnum. 

3 eggs, beaten as for sponge cake. 
^ pound of sugar. 
I pint of whipped cream. 

Flavor with brandy or wine, and serve in cups, with 
nutmeg on top. 

MOUNTAIN-DEW PUDDING. 
Miss Nellie C. Lake. 

1 pint of milk. 
Yolks of 2 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls cocoanut. 
% cup of cracker crumbs. 
y^ cup sugar. 

Bake half an hour. Use whites of eggs for top. 

Pure, delicate, strong— Virot's Extracts. 



68 FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Mrs. W. B. Cushing. 

Soak Yz package of gelatine ^ hour in i cnp of cold 
water. Add i^ cups of hot v.'ater and i cup of sugar. 
Beat whites of 3 eggs and beat into the gelatine, and keep 
cool. Flavor with lemon. 

SAUCE. 

Beat yolks of 3 eggs wtth ^ cup sugar and i teaspoonful 
of cornstarch. Scald i pint of milk; add to it the eggs till 
it thickens. Add salt and Virot's Vanilla, and let cool. 

SPONGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. D. Jarvis. 

5 eggs, beaten separately. 

I pint of sweet milk. 

Yi cup of sugar. 

Y cup of butter. 

Y2 cup of flour. Salt. 

Scald milk; then stir in sugar and flour until it thickens. 
Add butter. When cool, add the yolks, then the whites of 
eggs. Bake ^ hour. Serve immediately with Hard sauce, 
filled with chopped nuts. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Miss Prescott. 

Mix 3 heaping tablespoonfuls of cornstarch into cold 
water until very thin. Pour on 3 coffeecups of boiling 
water. Boil till it thickens, stirring all the time. Then 
add 2 cups of sugar; grated rind and juice of 2 large 
lemons; 2 eggs, well beaten; salt to taste. 

Butter a pudding dish and pour in. Bake 20 minutes. 
Serve cold with sugar and cream. 

Equaled by none— Virot's Extracts. 



PREDONIA COOK BOOK. 69 

ORANGE PUDDING. 
Mrs. Franklin Btirrz'tt. 

Take ^ box of gelatine and dissolve in Yi cup of cold 
water; then add ys cup of boiling water, i cup of sugar and 
juice of I lemon, i cup of juice and pulp of orange, and 
the grated peel of i orange. Put this all together; put in 
cold place or on ice. When this begins to set, stir in the 
beaten whites of 3 eggs. 

Custard to be served -with the above : Take the yolks of 
3 eggs; beat up with 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, and stir into 
I pint of boiling milk. Cook over boiling water until it 
thickens. Whipped cream is preferred by many. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

Miss Aitgusta G. Jones. 

I pound of prunes. 

Whites of 4 eggs. 

Soak the prunes over night. In the morning stone and 
stew them until tender, and sweeten to taste; then chop 
and add the beaten whites of eggs. Beat thoroughly and 
bake in well greased dish, 15 or 20 minutes in a moderate 
oven. 

Serve with whipped cream. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 
Mrs. C. M. Rathbun. 

I pound of prunes. 

I cup of sugar. 

Whites of 3 eggs. 

% box of gelatine. 

Soak prunes over night. In the morning remove stones; 
put the prunes in a porcelain lined kettle, with sufficient 
water to prevent burning, and cook until perfectly tender. 
Then add sugar, and let cool. When cold, press through a 
colander. Beat the w^hites to a stiff froth. Have the 
gelatine soaked in ^ cup of cold water for yi hour; stand 

For fastidious tastes— Virot's Extracts. 



70 FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

this over the fire until dissolved. Stir into prunes and whites 
of eggs; turn into mould and stand away to harden. 

When ready to serve, pour around it a custard made from 
I pint of milk, yolks of 3 eggs, and 2 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar. Beat the eggs and sugar together until light; add 
to boiling milk, and cook until eggs begin to thicken — 
about 2 minutes, no longer, or sauce will curdle. Flavor 
very delicately with Virot's Almond. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Mrs. M. T. Dana. 
4 tablespoonfuls of tapioca, soaked over night in i cup of 
water. Take the yolks of 4 eggs, beaten with i cup of 
sugar, and stir into i quart of boiling milk, which also 
contains the tapioca. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth. Put in a dish a small piece of butter and the whites 
of the eggs, pouring over it the cooked custard, which has 
been flavored to taste with Virot's Extract. 

CHARIvOTTE-RUSSE. 

Mrs. A. R. Moore. 

10 eggs. 

I cupful of sugar. 

4 tablespoonfuls of wine. 

I tablespoonful of Virot's Vanilla Extract. 

A little less than a package of gelatine. 

I j4 cupfuls of milk. 

I pint of cream. 

Soak the gelatine in }4. cup of milk. Beat the yolks of 
eggs and sugar together, and put in a double boiler with 
the remaining milk. Stir until the mixture begins to 
thicken, then add the gelatine, and strain in a large tin 
basin. Place this in a pan of ice- water and when it begins 
to cool, add the whites of the eggs, well beaten, the wine, 
the flavoring and the whipped cream. Mix thoroughly', and 
pour into moulds that have been lined with sponge cake. 

For dainty toilets— Virot's Perfumes, Toilet Waters, Sachets. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 7 1 

Set away to harden, and then cover with a thick covering 
of whipped cream. With the quantities given, 2 quart 
moulds may be filled. The lining may be one piece of sponge 
cake or strips of it, or lady fingers. The wine may be 
omitted. 

The secret of the success of this rule is to have the cooked 
mixture pist luke-warm, when the whites of eggs and the 
whipped cream are added. If it is too Vv^arm, it falls; if too 
cold, it lumps. 

PINEAPPLE BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Mrs. Joseph Brown. 

I can of pineapple, not grated. 

i^ box of Cooper's gelatine. 

I cup of sugar. 

I pint of cream. 

Soak the gelatine in i cup of water. When dissolved, 
strain the juice from the pineapple; chop the pineapple fine. 
Put the gelatine, juice and pineapple together and scald. 
Set away to cool. When cool, whip the cream stiff; stir in 
mixture, and put into moulds. Serv^e v/ith fruit juice sauce, 
or not. 

PINEAPPLE SHORT-CAKE. 

Mrs. P. H, Stevens. 
I cup of sugar. 

1 cup of flour. 
4 eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls of cold water. 
Juice and grated rind of ^ lemon. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

This is baked in two layers, and grated pineapple, mixed 
with sugar, put between them. The top is covered with 
whipped eream. 



Demand and Get— Virot's Perfumes and Extracts. 



lce$^ 



BISCUIT GI.ACE. 

Mrs. Ward Barnutn. 

Whip I quart of cream. Add to this yolks of 5 eggs and 
I cup of pulverized sugar, beaten together. Any flavoring 
may be used. 

Maccaroons, dried, rolled and moistened with sherry, 
make it very nice. After stirring ingredients together, pour 
into a mould and pack in ice and salt, not stirring, but left 
to freeze slowly. 

IvEMON SHERBET. 

Mrs. Lambert. 
The rind of 2 lemons, scalded in 2 quarts of milk; the 
juice of 10 lemons, and 2 pounds of sugar. Ivet stand until 
sugar is dissolved. When milk is thoroughly cold, add the 
sugar and lemon juice. Strain before putting into freezer, 
so as to get out all the lemon rind. Then add the beaten 
whites of 4 eggs and i cup of powdered sugar, and freeze. 

ORANGE SHERBET. 

Mrs. A. S. Fox. 

Juice of 10 oranges. 

Juice of 6 lemons. 

Grated rind of 2 oranges. 

4 cups of sugar. 

I quart of water. 

Cover the sugar with water; add the grated rind and boil 
for 5 minutes. Strain, and stand aside to cool. When cold 
add the orange and lemon juice and water. Freeze in a 
gallon freezer. 

Price to suit all— Virot's Products. 



FEEDONIA COOK BOOK. 73 

CAFE PARFAIT. 

Mrs. Palmer. 
I pint of cream. 

I cup of sugar. 

I spoonful of strong coffee. 

Whip all together till thick. Put into a mould and pack 

in ice and salt, and let stand without stirring till frozen. 

RASPBERRY ICE. 

Miss Frisbee. 

5 lemons; 2 cups of sugar; i quart of water; juice of i 
pint of raspberries. 

Boil the sugar and water together, and when cold add 
the juice of the lemons and raspberries. Just before 
freezing, add the white of i ^zz^ well beaten. 

FROZEN PUDDING. 
Mrs. A. R. Moore, 

1 generous pint of milk. 

2 cupfuls of granulated sugar. 
A scant ^ cupful of flour. 

2 eggs. 

2 tablespoon fuls of gelatine. 

I quart of cream. 

I pound of French candied fruits (^ pound will do). 

4 tablespoonfuls of wine. 

I,et the milk come to a boil. Beat the flour, i cup of 
sugar and the eggs together, and stir into the boiling milk. 
Cook 20 minutes; add the gelatine, which has been soaking 
I or 2 hours in water — enough to cover it. Strain and set 
away to cool. When cold, add the rest of the sugar and 
the cream, whipped until stiff. Have the fruit chopped 
fine, and soaked in the wine. Freeze the cream 10 minutes, 
then add the wine and fruit and finish freezing. Remove 
the beater, pack smoothly, and set away for several hours. 
When ready to serve, dip the tin into warm water, turn out 
the cream, and serve with whipped cream heaped around. 

Sonietiiing modern— Virot's Extracts. 



Calces ajia gooHies. 



DOUGHNUTS. 
Mrs. George E. Tiffiuiy. 

8 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 

3 large tablespoonfuls of sour cream. 
ID large tablespoonfuls of sour milk. 

1 teaspoon ful of soda. 

Flour enough to make a soft dough. Flavor with Virot's 
Extract of Cinnamon or Nutmeg. 

FRIED CAKES. 
Mrs. R. H. Barmim. 

2 eggs, beaten thoroughly; add i scant cup of sugar, and 
beat again. 6 tablespoonfuls melted butter, and beat again. 
4 teaspoonfuls of baking powder sifted into the flour. Add 
2 teacups sweet milk and a little salt. Mix very soft. 
Flavor with Virot's Extract of Nutmeg. 

LAZY DOUGHNUTS. 
Mrs. Owens. 
% cup of sugar; 2 eggs; i cup of sour milk; 6 level 
teaspoonfuls melted COTTOLENE; yi teaspoonful soda. 

Stir as stiff as possible with flour. Drop from a teaspoon 
into hot COTTOIvENE, and fry brown. Dip spoon in the 
COTTOLENE each time, and they will not stick to the 
spoon. 

Better than the Best— Virot's Extracts. 



FREiDONIA COOK BOOK. 75 

OLD-FASHIONED CRULLERS. 
Mrs. R. E. Forbes. 

3 eggs. 

3 spoonfuls sugar. 

I spoonful of lard. 

I teaspoonful of baking powder. 

A little salt. 

Flour to make stiff enough to roll. 

Roll % of an inch thick. Cut in squares. Cut each 
square into strips from bottom to near top edge, representing 
five fingers. Slightly twist each strip, and bring all together 
at the end. This has a pretty effect after frying. 

CRULLERS. 

Mrs. Parker. 

3 cups sugar; 6 eggs; 2 tablespoonfuls COTTOLENE; 
3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder; 6 cups of flour. 

Mix; cut ^ inch thick and drop into hot COTTOLENE. 
When brown sprinkle with sugar. 

SPANISH BUN. 
Mrs. Wm. H. Morgan. 

I ^^^, and the yolks of 3 eggs; ^ cup butter; 2 cups of 
coffee sugar; 2 cups of flour; i cup of milk; 3 teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder; i dessert-spoonful ground mixed spices. 

Bake in a broad, shallow tin, in a moderate oven for 20 
to 30 minutes. 

Icing : To the well beaten whites of 3 eggs, add i cup of 
coffee Sugar. Spread on the cake while it is warm. Then 
set in oven to brown nicel3^ Leave in pan until cold. 

TIP-TOP CAKE. 

Miss Katharine Ctishing. 

i}4, cups of sugar; i cup of svveet milk; i egg; 2^ cups 
of flour; I tablespoonfulof butter; 3 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Flavor with Virot's Extract. 

Pure, delicate, strong — Virot's Extracts. 



76 PREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

SCOTCH SHORT-CAKE. 

Afiss Mary G. Bristol. 

I pound of flour; yi pound butter; % pound of sugar; 
pincli of salt. 

Better to mix without water. Bake in a round cake % 
inch thick, pricked with fork and fluted edges. Break in 
pieces, and serve at 5 o'clock tea. 

MRS. COMMONS' SPICE CAKE. 

3 eggs; I cup of sugar; }i cup of butter; ^ cup of sweet 
milk; yi cup of molasses, into which put soda size of a 
bean; 2 cups of flour; i teaspoonful of baking powder; 
I coffeecup of raisins; i teacup of currants; i ]4 teaspoonfuls 
of cloves; 2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon. 

Stir the butter and sugar together. Add the molasses 
and soda and spices, then the eggs, well beaten; then the 
milk; the flour, in which the baking powder has been 
sifted, and lastly the frnit dredged with flour. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. C. M. Rathbun. 

3 eggs; I large cup of sugar; i large cup of pastry flour; i 
teaspoonful baking powder; Yz cup of hot water; ^ lemon 
(juice and rind). 

Beat eggs very light. Add gradually the sifted sugar; then 
the Vv^ater and lemon, and lastly, the flour and baking 
powder. Bake in gem pans, or as a loaf. 

SPONGE CAKE. 
Mrs. L. N. Murray. 

5 eggs; juice of I lemon; i small cup granulated sugar; i 
small cup of flour; pinch of baking powder. 

Beat yolks and sugar to a cream. Add lemon juice; add 
the stifBy beaten v/hites of eggs, and put in flour and baking 
powder. Grease tins, and bake in a hot oven. 

Equaled by none— Virot's Extracts. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 77 

WARM GINGER BREAD. 

Miss Jean Rathbun. 

I ^%%, beaten lightly; ^ ctip of molasses; i teaspoonful 
of soda; butter size of an &%%, put into ^ cup of boiling 
water; i good cup of flour. 

Mix thoroughly, and bake in a quick oven. Spice, if 
you wish. 

NICE WARM TEA CAKES. 

Mrs. George Barker. 

I cup of sugar; 2 cups of flour; 5 tablcspoonfuls milk or 
water; 2 eggs; butter the size of an egg; i teaspoonful of 
baking powder. 

Flavor with Virot's Vanilla. Drop from spoon on buttered 
tins. 

LAYER CAKE. 
Mrs. A. H. Marsh. 

I ^Z%\ y^ cup sugar; 4 tablespoon fuls cold butter, beaten 
to a cream. Add i cup sv/eet milk; 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder in 2 cups of flour. 

Use cocoanut or English walnuts with the frosting. 

GOLD CAKE. 

Mrs. S. B. Durlin. 

Yolks of 8 eggs. 

I scant cup of sugar. 

Yt, cup of butter. 

1 yi cups of flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Flavor with Virot's Extract. 

Cream butter and sugar until very light. Beat yolks until 
very stiff, and stir through the butter and sugar. Put in 
milk, then flour, and stir hard. Oven moderate. 

For fastidious tastes— Virot's Extracts. 



78 FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Mrs. S. B. Diirlin. 
Whites of 7 eggs. 

Yolks of 5 eggs. 

I cup of granulated sugar. 

I cup of flour. 

y^, teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 

Add a pinch of salt to the whites before beating. Sift, 
measure and set aside flour and sugar. Separate the eggs, 
putting whites in a mixing bowl, and the yolks in a small 
bowl, and beat until very stiff. Whip the whites about half ; 
add cream of tartar and whip until very stiff. Add Virot's 
flavoring; add sugar to the whites, beat in; then add yolks; 
then the flour, which must ho^ folded in very lightly. Bake 
in moderate oven 30 to 40 minutes. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Mrs, George Wiley. 

Y-y, cup of butter; i cup of sugar; Y^ cup of cold water; i Yi 
cups of pastry flour; whites of 3 eggs; 2 teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. 

Flavor with Virot's Extract. 

CHOCOEATE CAKE. 

Mrs. W. W. Sloan. 

lY cups of granulated sugar; Y cup of butter, rubbed 
to a cream; Y cup of sweet milk; 2 cups of flour and 2 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, sifted together; 3 eggs, well 
beaten. Stir together thoroughly. 

Y pound Baker's Chocolate, scraped fine; add 5 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar and 3 tablespoonfuls of boiling v^^ater, 
stirring over the fire until smooth, then add to the mixture. 
Bake 20 minutes in a moderate oven. 

WHITE FROSTING. 

Whites of 2 eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Boil 2 small 
cups of sugar till it hairs; beat into the whites until cold, 
and spread over the cake. 

For dainty toilets — Virot's Perfumes, Toilet Waters, 5achets. 



FRKDONIA COOK BOOK. 79 

Then make a dark frosting the same way, only put in ^ 
cup of grated chocolate. Stir until smooth, then spread 
over the white frosting. 

CHOCOIvATB I.OAF CAKK. 

Mrs. J. D. Maynard. 
y^ cake of Baker's Chocolate; % cup of milk; yolk of i 
^^•g. Boil these together until soft and smooth. Then add 
% cup of butter; ^ cup of sugar; % cup of milk; i ^<g<g; 
I cup of flour; i small teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a 
little hot water. 

BLACK CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mae Hayward. 

1% cups of granulated sugar; }i cup of butter; 3 eggs; 
% cup of sweet milk; i teaspoonful of soda; i^ cups of 
flour; Virot's Vanilla. 

]4. cup of grated chocolate, cooked in ^ cup of milk, and 
when thoroughly cold, add to the cake mixture. 

MRS. COMMONS' MAPLE SUGAR CAKES. 

3 cups of maple sugar, grated; i small cup of butter; i 
cup of sour milk; 3 eggs; i teaspoonful of soda. Flour to 
make stiff enough batter for drop cakes. 

QUEEN'S CAKE. 

Mrs. A. S. Couch. 
I pound of dried flour; i pound of sugar; ^ pounds of 
butter; 5 eggs; i nutmeg; i small wine-glass of wine; i 
small wine-glass of brandy; a gill of thin cream; i pound 
of raisins. 

STRIPED Cx^KE. 
Mrs. P. H. Stevens. 
Yz small cup of butter; 2 cups of sugar; whites of 5 eggs; 
2j^ cups of flour; 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder; i cup 
of sweet milk. Bake in 2 square sheets. 

Demand and (jet— Virot's Perfumes and Extracts. 



o8 FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

Take 3 tablespoonfuls of this batter. Add to it ^ cup of 
molasses; yolks of 2 eggs; i cup of raisins, seeded and 
chopped; ^ teaspoonful of cloves; i teaspoonful cinnamon; 
^ cup of flour. Bake this in i layer. 

Put 3 layers together with frosting, having dark one in 
the center. 

FEDERAL CAKE. 
Mrs. Geo. P. I sham. 

I pound of butter; i pound of sugar; i pound of flour; 
y^ pint of sour cream; i teaspoonful of saleratus; 4 eggs; i 
glass brandy; i pound of raisins; i nutmeg; ^teaspoonful 
cloves. 

ANGEI^'S FOOD. 

Mrs. Sophia White. 

Whites of 1 1 eggs. 

I Yz tumblers of granulated sugar. 

I tumbler of flour. 

I teaspoonful of Virot's Vanilla. 

I teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 

Sift the flour 4 times, then add the cream of tartar, and 
sift again, but have the right measure before putting in the 
cream of tartar. Sift the sugar and measure. Beat the 
eggs to a stiff froth on a large platter; on the same dish add 
the sugar lightly, then the flour very gently, and then the 
vanilla. Do not stop beating until it is in the pan to bake. 
Bake 40 minutes in a very moderate oven. Try with a 
straw. Do not open the oven until the cake has been in 15 
minutes. Turn the pan upside down to cool, and when 
cold take out by loosening around the sides with a knife. 
Cut v/ith a sharp knife. Use a pan that has never been 
greased, and have on the edges 3 or 4 projections about 2 
inches deep, so that when turned upside down there will be 
a space between the pan and the table. 

The tumbler for measuring must hold 2^ gills. 

Price to suit all— Virot's Products. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 8 1 

WEDDING FRUIT CAKE. 
Mrs. M. S. Moore. 

I pound of butter; i pound of sugar; i pound of flour; i 
cup of molasses; 8 eggs, beaten separately; 4 wine-glasses 
of brandy; 6 pounds raisins; 3 pounds of French currants; 
2 pounds of citron; 5 nutmegs; 2 tablespoonfuls of ground 
cloves; 2 tablespoonfuls of ground cinnamon. 

Mix currants, raisins and citron with sifted flour. Stir 
butter and sugar to a cream; beat eggs very light; stir them 
alternately with the flour into the butter and sugar, stirring 
very hard. Add gradually the spices and liquor; stir the 
raisins and fruit into the mixture. Stir hard 10 minutes. 
Bake from 4 to 5 hours in a moderate oven. Ice the next 
day. 

RAISIN CAKE. 
Mrs. Wm. Risley, 

1 cup of butter; i cup of sour milk; 3 eggs; 2 cups of 
sugar; i teaspoonful of soda; 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder; 
3}^ cups flour; i cup of stoned raisins. Flavor with Virot's 
Rose-water. 

DRIED APPI.E CAKE. 
Mrs. W. B. Cushing. 

2 cups of dried apples; 2 cups of molasses; i cup of butter; 
I cup of sour milk; i cup of brown sugar; 2 eggs; 1% 
teaspoonfuls soda; 2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon; 2 teaspoonfuls 
of cloves; i nutmeg; 3 cups of flour. 

Soak the apples over night, then chop and stew in molasses 
I hour. When cool, add the other ingredients. 

JAM CAKE. 

Miss Lizzie Lester. 

I cup of sugar; Y^. cup butter (scant); yolks of 3 eggs; 
whites of 2 eggs; i teaspoonful of cinnamon; i teaspoonful 

Something modern — Virot's Extracts. 



82 FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

of soda, dissolved; ^ cup of milk; i^ cups of flour; i 
heaping teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Beat thoroughly; then add i scant cup of jam, and beat 
well, Bake in layers or loaf. 

MRS. DANIEIv'S BUTTERNUT CAKES. 

I cup of butter; 2 cups of sugar; 3 cups of flour; 4 eggs; 

1 cup of sweet milk; 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Add Virot's flavoring; and the last thing, add i coffecup 

of butternuts, and bake in little tins. This will make 32 
small cakes. 

ENGLISH WALNUT CAKE. 

Mrs. A. S. Fox. 

I cup of sugar; Y^, cup of butter; ^ cup of milk; 2 eggs; 

2 cups of flour; i heaping teaspoonful of baking powder; i 
cup of stoned raisins; i cup chopped walnuts. 

Flour nuts and raisins before putting them in the cake. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

Mrs. S. B. Durlin. 

I cup sugar; yi cup butter; 2 cups flour; 2 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder; 2 eggs; ^ cup of sweet milk; i cup of 
chopped nuts. 

HICKORY NUT MACAROONS. 
Miss Ama L. Lester. 

I cup of brown sugar; 2 eggs, beaten together; 3 scant 
tablespoonfuls of flour; a pinch of salt; i cup of chopped 
nut meats. 

To the eggs add sugar, then flour, then salt; then add 
the nuts. Beat well. Drop from a small spoon into well 
greased pan. Bake in a hot oven. 

Better than the Best— Virot's Extracts. 



PRieDONIA COOK BOOK. 83 

KISSES. 
Mrs. S. B. Durlin. 

Whites of 4 eggs and ^ pound of pulverized sugar. Beat 
whites until very, very stiff (here lies the secret of success). 
Add I teaspoonful Virot's Vanilla, and then add the sugar. 
Drop on a board which has been thoroughly wet and covered 
with a paper which has also been wet; then bake in a cool 
oven Yz hour, or until they are well dried. Slip them off the 
board with a knife and put 2 together, the lower sides 
together. A couple of tablespoonfuls of chopped nuts — 
English walnuts, almonds or hickory nuts — the last thing 
before baking, is a great improvement. Make them of an 
oblong shape, which can easily be done. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

Mrs. Franklin Burritt. 

I cup sugar; ^ cup butter; i ^%%\ ^ cup of milk; i 
teaspoonful of baking powder; flour enough to make a stiff 
dough. 

Roll as thin as possible. These are fine with or without 
caraway seed. (Seeds should be rolled). 

SOUR CREAM COOKIES. 

Mrs. H. D. Kirkover. 

I cup of butter; i cup of sugar; 3 eggs; i cup of sour 
cream; i^ teaspoonfuls soda; flour enough to make a 
dough as soft as it can be rolled. 

Sprinkle each cooky with a little granulated sugar before 
putting into the oven. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

Mrs. S. B. Diirlin. 
I cup of molasses; i cup of brown sugar; i cup of lard 
and butter; 3 eggs; i teaspoonful each of cinnamon, ginger 
and soda. 

Pure, delicate, strong — Virot's Extracts. 



84 FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Mrs, IVm. Parks. 

I cup of molasses; y^ cup of sugar; i scant cup of lard and 
butter; i eg^; i teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in i table- 
spoonful of hot water; flour enough to mix stiff. 

Boil molasses and sugar together for 5 minutes ; then add 
the shortening and soda, and let cool a little before adding 
the flour. Ginger and spices to taste. Roll thin, cut and 
bake in a moderately hot oven. 

SAND TARTS. 
Miss Katheritie Clark. 

1 cup butter; lY^ cups sugar; 3 eggs, beaten separately; 
I tablespoonful water; i teaspoonful of baking pov/der. 

Mix in suiiicient flour to roll out thin, cut in squares. 
Brush the tops v/itli v/hite of ^ZZ^ sprinkle sugar, cinnamon 
and chopped almonds on top, and bake. 

MAPIvE SUGAR COOKIES. 
Mrs. D. R. Manley. 

2 cups of dark maple sugar; yz cup of butter; i ^%g', i 
cup of sour cream; yi teaspoonful of soda. 

Beat sugar, butter and 0.%^ together until light. Dissolve 
soda in cream, and add with sufiicient flour to make a soft 
dough. Roll out and cut v/ith round cutter. The more 
lumpy the sugar, the better the cookies. 

FRUIT COOKIES. 

Mrs. C. A. Clute. 

2 eggs; 2 cups of brown sugar; i cup of butter; i cup of 
raisins; ^ cup of currants; %. pound of citron; j^ cup of 
sour milk, or Y^, cup of cold coffee; i teaspoonful of soda; 
3 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon; i teaspoonful of cloves. Flour 
enough to roll out as soft as possible. 

Equaled by none— Virot's Extracts. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 85 

WALNUT WAFERS. 

Mtss Augusta W. Jones. 

yi pint of brown sugar; }i pint of walnut meats; 3 even 
tablespoonfuls of flour; yi teaspoonful of salt; 2 eggs. 

Beat the eggs, add the sugar, salt and flour, then the 
walnuts, chopped fine. Spread in buttered pans as thin as 
possible, and at equal distances put half walnuts. Bake in 
moderate oven. Divide into squares after cake has cooled 
a little. 

ORANGE WAFERS. 

Mrs. Jennte G. Cushtng. 

^ pound of sugar; ^ pound of flour; 4 eggs, separate 
the whites and yolks, and beat very light; i lemon (use yi 
the rind and all the juice) ; 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Drop from a spoon on buttered paper and bake in a quick 
oven. Spread the under side with orange marmalade, and 
place two together. 



For fastidious tastes— Virot's Extracts. 



Iciitgs ana f iiiiisgs, 



PI.AIN ICING. 

Boil I cup of granulated sugar with 4 tablespoonfuls of 
water until it drops from the spoon in threads. Have ready 
the beaten white of i egg, and pour the syrup slowly into 
it, beating all the time. Use Virot's Favoring. Spread on 
cake while warm. 

FROSTING WITHOUT EGGS. 

I cup of granulated sugar. 

5 tablespoonfuls of water. 

Boil for 5 minutes. Stir until it begins to boil. When 
done, set dish in cold water; add Virot's Flavoring. While 
cooling, stir or beat it continually. Frost cake while still 
warm. 

CHOCOI.ATK FILI.ING. 

Mrs. E. H. Potter. 

I cup of sugar; 5 tablespoonfuls of sweet milk; 2 table- 
spoonfuls shaved chocolate; butter size of a chestnut. 

Boil about 3 minutes, and stir until cold. Put on the 
cake when both cake and filling are cold. If boiled a little 
too long, add a few drops of milk while stirring. 

CHOCOLATE FII.I.ING. 

Miss Nellie C. Lake. 
I pint of sugar, with just enough water to wet it. Add 
whites of 3 eggs, beaten a very little; ^ cake of sweet 
chocolate, grated. 

For dainty toilets— Virot's Perfumes, Toilet Waters, Sachets. 



FRKDONIA COOK BOOK. 87 

Set the pan into hot water, and cook 10 or 15 minutes. 
Take from fire, and when partly cold add as much grated 
cocoanut as you desire. Flavor with Virot's Vanilla. 
Spread between layers of cake, and sprinkle top and sides 
with cocoanut. 

MAPI,E SUGAR FII,I,ING. 
Mrs. Joseph Brown. 

I cup of granulated sugar; 2 cups of maple syrup; whites 
of 3 eggs. 

Boil the sugar as for ordinary frosting. Put in maple 
syrup. Boil until it nearly hairs. Pour slowly on the 
beaten whites, and beat until yery thick or nearly cold. 

CARAMKI. FII,I,ING. 
Mrs. F. B. Palmer. 

I cup of brown sugar; i cup of maple syrup; butter the 
size of an ^%%. 

Boil until a soft candy. Add 2 tablespoonfuls of cream 
and stir until nearly cold. Then use. 

MARSHMAI,I,OW FII,I,ING. 

Mrs. Joseph Brown. 

Frost both sides of layers with ordinary white frosting. 
Have fresh, soft marshmallows, pull them out flat and fit 
them on the frosting. Flavor with fresh lemon or Virot's 
Extract. 

CREAM FII,I,ING. 

y^, cup of flour; 2 eggs; i cup of sugar; y^, pint of milk. 

Beat flour, eggs and sugar together, and stir into the 
boiHng milk. Cook until it thickens, then stir until cool. 
Use Virot's Flavoring. 

Demand and Uet— Virot's Perfumes and Extracts. 



88 PREJDONIA COOK BOOK. 

FIG FILLING. 

Mrs. S. B. Diirlin. 

^ pounds of figs; i cup of raisins, chopped fine; make 
custard with 2 eggs; 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar; 2 table- 
spoonfuls of water. 

Cook in double boiler; and when moderately cool, stir in 
the fruit and a generous tablespoonful of brandy. 

APPLE FILLING. 

Mrs. Jennie G. Ctishing. 

I cup granulated sugar; i Q.%g, beaten up light; i lemon, 
grate the rind and use all the juice; 2 large sour apples, 
grated. 

Beat all together, and put on stove and boil a minute. 
Spread between layers of cake. Have the cake cold and the 
filling hot. 



Price to suit all— Virot's Products. 



FRENCH CREAM. 

To the white of i egg, beaten to a stiff froth, add i table- 
spoonful of cold water or sweet cream. Sift carefully XXX 
confectioner's sugar; stir into mixture gradually, keeping 
the mixture smooth, until you can mould with the fingers. 
Do not make it too stiff. This is the basis of the following 
recipes : 

FRUIT CREAM. 

Cut into small pieces dates, figs and citron. Add just 
enough of French Cream to hold the fruit together. Flavor 
with Virofs Violet Vanilla, stirring as little as possible to 
keep the fruit in shape. Make this into a flat cake about 
I inch thick and cut in cubes. 

ORANGE FRUIT CREAMED. 

Peel sweet oranges and separate into the smallest sections, 
care being taken not to pierce the fruit. Carefully remove 
the white skin. Around each section fold a layer of French 
Cream flavored with Virot's Orange. 

AEMOND CREAMS. 

Flavor a small quantity of French Cream with Virot's 
Bitter Almond. Roll into balls, and into top of each press 
a blanched almond. 

ENGI.ISH WALNUT CREAMS. 
Flavor French Cream mixture with Virot's Pistachio. 
Roll into balls, and place on top of each half an English 
walnut. 

Something modern— Virot's Extracts. 



90 FRE^DONIA COOK BOOK. 

CONFECTIONER'S CREAM CANDY. 

Mrs. F. E. Cooke, 
I cup of cream, with Virot's flavoring. Roll and sift 
confectioner's sugar several times. Stir into cream all the 
sugar it will hold. Knead like bread, the longer, the better. 
Mould into any shape desired, and fill wdth nuts, or use for 
stuffing dates. 

CONFECTIONER'S CREAM CANDY. 
Mrs. F. E. Cooke. 

Weigh I pound of confectioner's sugar. Break the white 
of I ^%% in a glass. In another glass put any kind of Virot's 
flavoring you desire, and combine with water to make the 
same proportion you have of ^ZZ. Now add water and 
flavoring to ^^.-g. Pour all into the sugar. Mix as for 
bread. Roll on smooth board; cut into squares, or work 
into any shape. By adding the yolk of ^^z, with a little 
sugar and Virot's I^emon flavoring, lemon cream is made. 
Any kind of fruit or nuts may be added. 

A few drops of cochineal makes a pink candy. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

Mrs. F. E. Cooke. 
Use either of the above confectioner's candy; let it stand 
several hours to harden. Then melt i cake of sweetened 
chocolate, by setting the dish into hot water. Take out one 
cream at a time on a fork and drop into melted chocolate; 
roll it until well covered, then slip from the fork upon 
waxed paper, and set aside to harden. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

Miss Katharine A. Cushing. 

2)4 cups of molasses; i cup of sugar; i tablespoonful of 
vinegar; butter size of English walnut. 

Boil 20 minutes, stirring cool on buttered pans, and pull 
until white. 

Better than the Best—Virot's Extracts. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. Ql 

PEANUT CANDY. 

Mz'ss Mary J. Rathbun. 

Shell, peel and chop i pound of peanuts. Put 2 teacups 
of granulated sugar into a hot sauce-pan over a slow fire, 
and stir constantly until dissolved. As the last specks of 
sugar are disappearing, stir in the peanuts quickly, and 
spread on buttered tins. While cooling, cut into squares. 

WINTERGRKEN TAFFY. 

Mrs. Win. Parks. 

2 cups of coffee A sugar; y^ tablespoonful of vinegar; 2 
tablespoonfuls of glucose. 

Boil until it snaps when dropped into water. When 
partly cool add 10 drops of oil of wintergreen, and pull over 
a large nail. Pull into long strips and cut. 

CONFECTIONER'S TAFFY. 

Mrs. E. H. Potter. 

2 pounds of sugar; >< pound of glucose; t-Yz cups Porto 
Rico molasses; i cup of butter. 

Boil sugar and glucose together first; then add molasses. 
Boil until it will harden in water. Pour into buttered pans; 
when cool pull over hook until v^^hite. Add Virot's Vanilla 
while pulling. Cut in pieces and Vv-rap in buttered paper. 
This will make 3 pounds of taffy. 3 dozen sheets of paper 
are required to wrap it. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMEES. 

Miss Aftia Lester. 

I cup of sweet milk; 2 cups of molasses; i cup of sugar; 
butter size of an Qgg; % cake of Baker's chocolate. 

Grate chocolate, and stir into the milk when boiling. 
Then add the other ingredients slowly. When it becomes 
brittle by dropping into cold water, pour into flat tins to 
cool. 

Pure, delicate, strong— Virot's Extracts. 



92 fr:bdonia cook book. 

CREAM CANDY. 

Mrs. R. B. Day. 

2 cups of coffee C sugar, or i pound of maple sugar; i 
cup of thin cream. 

Boil slowly 25 minutes, and pour over nuts. Do not stir 
after it begins to boil. 

HONEY TAFFY. 
Miss Marie L. Gushing. 
4 cups of brown sugar; i cup of cream; 2 spoonfuls of 
vinegar; i spoonful of butter. 

Boil until it hardens in water. Do not stir. Pull until 
of a very light color. 

MAPLE BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Miss Nicklis. 

1 cup of maple syrup; i cup of granulated sugar; J^ cup 
of butter. 

Boil until it snaps in water, then add i cup of hickory 
nuts. Pour into buttered tins and set away to cool. 

FUDGEvS. 
Miss Belle L. Tifany. 

2 cups sugar; i cup milk; ^ cake of Baker's chocolate. 
Boil together until it will form a soft ball in water. Then 

add a tablespoonful of butter, and cook a short time. Take 
from the stove and stir until nearly hard. If nuts or 
cocoanut are to be added, the}'^ should be stirred in before 
pouring into pans to cool. If cream is used instead of milk, 
they will ramain soft for several days. 

COCOANUT DROPS. 

Mrs. Seldon E. Stone. 
To I grated cocoanut, add ^ the weight of white sugar 
and the white of i ^ZZ. Rub to a stiff froth, mix well and 
drop on buttered white paper. Bake 15 minutes. 

Equaled by none— Virot's Extracts. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 93 

PEPPERMINT CANDY. 

Mrs. M. M. Fenner. 

1 cup of granulated sugar; ^ cup of water. 

Put on stove and let it boil i or 2 minutes after it begins 
bubbling all over. It will string when right. Do not stir 
while boiling. When boiled, add 3 drops of peppermint oil 
and beat until it begins to turn slightly white, when drop 
quickly on marble or buttered paper. 

PRALINES. 
Mrs. A. R. Moore. 

2 cups of sugar; ^ cup cream; i]4 cups of nuts (pecans 
preferred). 

Boil sugar and cream until it will stay in the shape of a 
ball. Take off the stove and beat thoroughly, and when 
it begins to grain or sugar add nuts. 

PANOCHA. 

Mrs. P. R. Bradley. 

4 cups of brown sugar; i tablespoonful of butter; i cup 
of milk; i teaspoonful of salt; 2 tablespoonfuls of Virot's 
Vanilla; 2 cups of chopped walnuts. 

Boil the sugar, butter and milk until it drops hard in cold 
water, When done, pour in the vanilla and walnuts, and 
stir constantly until well mixed. Pour on a buttered platter 
and cut into squares. 



For fastidious tastes— Virot's Extracts. 



JELUES. 

All fruit jellies are made so much alike, that a few 
general directions are sufficient. For berries, currants, or 
grapes, heat the fruit, strain it and add i pound of sugar to 
each pint of juice. Crab-apple, quinces or apples must be 
stewed before straining; and to apple jelly may be added 
the juice of 4 lemons to 6 pints of apple juice. Crab-apple 
is improved by }i pie-plant. For any jelly, boil the juice 
about 20 minutes. Add the sugar, and let it boil 2 or 3 
minutes more. Always have the sugar hot when you put 
it in. 

CRANBERRY JEEEY. 

Miss Augusta Jones. 

I quart of cranberries; i pound of sugar; yi pint of 
water. 

Wash the cranberries and put them on with the water to 
boil for 10 minutes, then mash and squeeze through a 
flannel bag. Return the juice to the kettle, add the sugar, 
boil rapidly, and continuously for about 10 or 15 minutes, 
or until it jellies, and turn out to cool. 

ORANGE CONSERVE. 
Mrs. Wm. H. Morgan. 

5 pints of currant juice; i^ dozen oranges; 9 pounds of 
sugar; 2 pounds of choice raisins, seeded. 

For dainty toilets— Virot's Perfumes, Toilet Waters, Sachets. 



FRKDONIA COOK BOOK. 95 

Discard the ends of the oranges and the seeds, then cut 
into small pieces. Put the currant juice, raisins and oranges 
all together and boil i hour, then add the sugar and cook 
slowly y^ hour. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 
Miss Mary G. Bristol. 

12 sweet oranges (Valencia); 6 bitter oranges (Seville); 
4 lemons; 8 pounds of sugar; 4 quarts of water. 

After cutting the oranges and lemons in very thin slices, 
cover them with the water and let the whole stand 36 hours. 
Then boil 3 hours; add sugar, and boil 2 hours more. Just 
before taking off the fire add i wine-glass of whiskey to 
clear. So much depends on the size and sweetness of the 
oranges, that one must judge of the amount of sugar. Also, 
too much boiling makes the marmalade dark. 

GINGER PEARS. 

Mrs. Walter Finkel. 

8 pounds of fruit; 4 pounds of sugar; % pound of ginger 
root (green); juice of 4 lemons; i tumbler of water. 

Rind of lemons to be cut thin and long. Peal and cut 
pears into thin slices (cannot be too thin). Boil % of an 
hour. Use hard, green pears. 

PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES. 

Miss Augusta W. Jones. 

I quart of fruit; i quart of sugar. 

Put into a kettle together on back of stove, and let them 
remain there until the sugar dissolves slowly. Then move 
to the front of stove and cook 10 minutes. Set kettle away 
in a cold place for the fruit to absorb and the juice thicken; 
then can. Do not cook more than 3 quarts at a time. Do 
not stir, but press down with spoon. 

Demand and Uet— Virot's Perfumes and Extracts. 



96 FREJDONIA COOK BOOK. 

BRANDY PEACHES. 

Mrs. Lamira J. White. 

1 8 pounds of loaf sugar to 20 pounds of whole peaches. 
Boil the peaches slowly till they become transparent; take 
them out and spread on dishes to cool. Boil the juice to a 
thick syrup; add i pint of brandy to i quart of syrup. Pour 
syrup over peaches hot. 

UNFERMENTED GRAPE JUICE. 

Miss Marie Gushing. 

May be made for about 3 or 4 cents a quart bottle. Pick 
over the grapes, and almost cover with cold water in a 
porcelain-lined kettle. Heat slowly (mashing), and cook 
until all the juice is freed. Drain in jelly-bag. Measure 
the juice, and add Yi granulated sugar for each quart. Boil 
for 4 minutes and seal. 

PINEAPPLE. 

Miss Augusta W. Jones. 

To can pineapple in its own juice without cooking : Cut 
up the fruit in dice or shred it. To i pound of fruit, i 
pound of sugar. Place in layers in a crock; leave over 
night. Put in glass cans, and fill to top; seal air-tight. 
Place in a dark place. Dip rubbers and covers in warm 
water. For a delicious flavor, add i dessert-spoonful of 
brandy to each quart jar. 

TO CAN PIE-PLANT COLD. 
Mrs. Robert Jones. 

Wash stalks and cut into inch pieces. Fill cans lightly, 
and then fill up with cold water. Put on rubbers and tops 
all under water, to exclude air. Screw tops j^ery tight. 

Gooseberries and cranberries may be canned in the same 
way. 

Price to suit all— Virot's Products. 



fre;donia cook book. 97 

PEACHES. 

Pare and throw them into cold water. When 5-0U have 
enough to fill one or two jars, take them from the water, 
put them into a porcelain-lined kettle, cover them with 
boiling water, and stand on the back part of the fire v/here 
they will scarcely simmer, until tender. While they are 
cooking, make a sj^rup from i pound of sugar and i quart 
of water; stir over the fire until the sugar is dissolved, and 
then boil for 3 minutes. Lift the peaches carefullj' from the 
water, put them in the syrup, bring to a boiling point, and 
can as directed. 

Can pears in exactly the same -way. 

CHERRIES. 

Stone cherries; and if sour, allow ^ pound of sugar to 
every pound of cherries. If sweet, }{ pound will be quite 
sufficient. Put into a porcelaiu-lined kettle, sufficient 
cherries to fill 2 jars, cover them with the sugar and stand 
aside for 2 hours, then bring to a boiling point, and can 
directly. 

CURRANTS AND RASPBERRIES. 

To each quart of large red raspberries, allow }4 pint of 
currant juice and ^ pound of sugar. Put the berries in a 
porcelain-lined kettle, add the juice and sugar, bring to 
boiling point and can. 



Something modern— Virot's Extracts. 



CANNED CUCUMBERS. 

Mrs. Robert Jones. 

Peel and slice thin medium sized cucumbers, sprinkle with 
salt and a little alum and let stand 2 hours. Drain, and 
put in jars, adding vinegar, pepper and a few whole mustard 
seeds (onions if desired). On top of the jar, v/hen ready for 
sealing, add a dessert-spoonful of olive oil. 

Good to serve with meat, fish or as a salad, and they will 
keep until June. 

FI.INT PICKI.es. 

Mrs. IV. B. Green. 

100 small cucumbers, i teacup of salt to a gallon of 
water, heated boiling hot. Pour over the cucumbers, let 
stand 24 hours. Repeat this twice. Then rinse them with 
cold water and wipe them dry. Line bottom of stone jar 
with grape leaves, pack cucumbers in layers with a few 
whole cloves and cinnamon sticks between. Cover with 
grape leaves, and fill the jar with vinegar. 

PICKIvES. 

Mrs. F. B. Palmer. 

i/^ gallons of vinegar; i ounce of cloves; 2 ounces white 
mustard seed; 2 ounces of allspice; 2 ounces of alum; 8 
ounces salt; several pieces of horseradish; 5 tablespoonfuls 
celery seed; 4 red peppers; 400 cucumbers put into a jar. 

Better than the Best — Virot's Extracts. 



FRKDONIA COOK BOOK. 99 

Let the mixture come to a boil, pour over the cucumbers. 
Fill the jar with cold vinegar. Cover with grape leaves and 
tie paper tightly over. Ready for use in 3 weeks. 

PICKI.ED CUCUMBERS. 

Mrs. Franklin Burritt. 

Take 300 small cucumbers; i pint of salt. Pour boiling 
water over them to cover. Repeat 3 mornings, then wash 
thoroughly in cold water and drain; put in jars. Take 
vinegar enough to cover pickles. Put in i ounce of alum, 
Yt, ounce saltpetre and i cofieecup of sugar; boil together 
and pour over boiling hot. Some add 3 peppers, 3 onions 
and a few cloves. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

Mrs. Kingsland. 

2 gallons tomatoes, green and sliced; 12 good sized 
onions, sliced; 2 quarts of vinegar; i quart of sugar; 2 
tablespoonfuls of salt; 2 tablespoonfuls ground mustard; 2 
tablespoonfuls of black pepper, ground; i tablespoonful of 
allspice; i tablespoonful of cloves. 

Mix all together and stew until tender, stirring often. 
Put up in glass jars. 

CUCUMBER OIE PICKLES. 
Mrs. C. D. Armstrong. 

12 cucumbers; 3 onions; ^ cup of salt. 

Slice cucumbers and onions thin, put in dish in layers 
with salt sprinkled over them. Let stand 2 hours. Rinse 
them off with cold water and place in cans, with the 
following poured over them : i pint of sharp, cold vinegar; 
tablespoonful or more, or even y^. cup olive oil (according 
to taste for oil); y^, cup of white mustard seed; ^ table- 
spoonful of celery seed. 

These will be ready to serve in 3 hours. 

Pure, delicate, strong— Virot's Extracts. 



lOO FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

SWEET PICKI.es. 

Mrs. Fi-anklm Burritt. 

Take large ripe cucumbers {ikick-meated) ; peel and cut 
in squares, soak in weak salt and water over niglit. Take 
out and drain. Then take y^ vinegar and j^ water, and 
boil until tender; remove and drain. Have ready a syrup, 
made of 4 quarts of cider vinegar and 4 quarts of granulated 
sugar; let tliem cook a short time, just enough for the syrup 
to penetrate. 

PICAI.IIvI.1. 

Mrs. Lambert. 

I peck of green tomatoes, chop fine and drain; add 12 
peppers and 4 onions, chopped; 2 quarts of vinegar; i cup 
white mustard seed; 2 cups brown sugar; 2 tablespoonfuls 
of cinnamon; i tablespoonful of cloves; i tablespoonful of 
allspice; 3 tablespoonfuls of salt. 

Dissolve sugar and spices in vinegar. Mix thoroughly 
with the tomato; put up in glass jars cold. 

CHOV/-CHOW, OR ENGIvISH PICKI.E. 

Mrs. S. G. Skinner. 

4 heads of cauliflower; 2 quarts of small onions; 4 quarts 
of small cucumbers; 2 quarts of small tomatoes; (12 green 
peppers — which are cut in small pieces — if you like) . 

Salt the onions, cucumbers and tomatoes 24 hours. 
Divide the cauliflower, and salt separately, the same length 
of time. Drain thoroughly. Add the peppers, and put in 
a porcelain-lined kettle; cover with cold vinegar, not too 
strong, and boil 15 minutes. Drain and cool. Stir i cup 
of flour into some vinegar (about i quart) smoothly. Add 
^ pound of English mustard and boil, stirring all the time, 
to prevent burning. When cool, add 12 tablespoonfuls of 

Equakd by none— Virot's Extracts. 



FREDONIA COOK BOOK. lOI 

olive oil, stirring constantly. Then add i ounce of turmeric, 
I pound of white mustard seed. Add enough good vinegar 
to cover. Mix thoroughly and bottle. 

CHII.I SAUCE. 

Mrs. A. S. Couch. 

30 large ripe tomatoes; 12 onions; 6 red peppers; 5 table- 
spoonfuls of salt; 20 tablespoonfuls of white sugar; 3 cups 
of vinegar. 

Cook 2 hours. Do not skim. 

CHILI SAUCE. 
Mrs. W. B. Green. 

24 large tomatoes; 6 large onions; 3 green peppers, all 
chopped fine. Add 8 teaspoonfuls sugar; 2 teaspoonfuls of 
salt; 2 cups of vinegar. 

Cook slowly 3 or 4 hours. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Mrs. S. G. Skinner. 

5 pounds of currants, stemmed and washed; 4 pounds of 
sugar; ^ pint vinegar; 2 tablespoonfuls each of cinnamon 
and cloves. 

Put the vinegar and sugar in the kettle and heat. Add 
the currants and spices, and cook i hour, stirring to prevent 
burning. When done, rub through a wire sieve to take out 
the seeds. 

GRAPE CATSUP. 

Miss Marie L. Cushing. 

Take 5 pounds of grapes, scald and strain. Add 2^ 
pounds of sugar; i pint of vinegar; i tablespoonful each of 
salt, pepper, cloves, cinnamon and allspice. 

Boil till thick enough. 

For fastidious tastes — Virot's Extracts. 



I02 FRKDONIA COOK BOOE:. 

MUSTARD PICKLE. 

Miss Matilda Denton. 

Take cauliflower, onions, cucumbers and string-beans. 
Put them in a brine for 3 days, changing brine each day. 
Take I gallon of vinegar, yo, pound of whole spices, and boil 
20 minutes. Take i pound of mustard and ^ pound of 
powdered turmeric bark; mix with cold vinegar, and put 
into the boiling vinegar. Allow all to boil 5 minutes, then 
pour over the pickle.. 

This will cover ^ bushel of pickle. 



For dainty toilets— Virot's Perfumes, Toilet Waters, Sacliets. 



For fruit stains, pour boiling water, hot soda water, or 
hot chloride water, through the spot. 

Usually, an application of glycerine, mixed with j^olk of 
^SSy will cause tea stains to disappear. Or try dissolving 
^ pound each of chloride of lime and common soda in 3 
quarts of boiling water. Dip the stains in this solution, and 
then wash in soft water. 

Chocolate or cocoa stains must always be washed in cold 
water — never warm. Machine oil can be removed in the 
same way when fresh. 

Grass stains can be removed by putting in" alcohol or 
ammonia before the article is washed. Quickly put in warm 
suds, rub carefully with the hands till the spots disappear. 

To keep the bright color of peas, beans or any green 
vegetable while cooking leave them uncovered. The above 
is also true of cranberries. 

To remove tar, rub well with clean lard. Afterwards 
wash with soap and warm water. 

Equal parts of ammonia and turpentine will take paint out 
of clothing. Saturate the spot as often as necessary, and 
wash in soap suds. 

To make caramel : Put i cup of granulated sugar into 
an iron or granite sauce-pan, stir it over the fire till it melts 
and burns. As soon as it begins to smoke and boil add i cup of 
boiling water. I^et it boil i minute, bottle and cork tightly. 
This is used for coloring soups, sauces and puddings. 

Demand and (jet— Virot's|Perf umes and Extracts. 



I04 PR:eDONlA COOK BOOK. 

A piece of butter on a steel knife applied immediately 
after a bruise, will prevent a dark spot or lump. 
Dry celery tops to use for soups. 

When broiling steak, throw a little salt on the coals and 
the blaze from dripping fat will not annoy. 

A piece of apple kept in the cake box will keep cake 
fresh and moist. 

Brush a tough steak with plenty of olive oil and vinegar 
a few hours before cooking to make it tender. 

Never mix salad with dressing until ready to use. 

lycmon and salt will remove ink stains some times, and 
always remove iron rust. Put in the sun. 

Brush white of egg over pastry to prevent custards 
soaking into crust. 

Sugar for fried cakes should be dissolved in the milk to 
prevent them from absorbing lard. 

To keep juice of fruit pies from running out while 
baking, put in small cornucopias of white stiff paper in 
openings in the upper crust. 

Boil rice in a great deal of water; one gallon to a pound 
of rice is a good rule. After washing put it into boiling 
water which has been salted, and let it boil hard for twenty 
minutes, or less, if well cooked. Drain in a colander, put 
in oven five or ten minutes. Use the rice water for soup, 
adding }4 can of tonin.toes, onion and parsley chopped fine. 
Pepper to taste. 

Vegetables which grow above the ground may be cooked 
in salt water. Those under the ground in unsalted water. 

To remove blood stains when it is impossible to use soap 
and cold water, make a thick paste of laundry starch and 
cold water. Plaster it over the stain and allow it to remain 
until perfectly dry. If one application does not ansvv^er, the 
second will be sure to remove it. 

Price to suit all— Virot's Products. 



PAGE 

Bidcutt. 

Baking Powder, ------ 45 

Minute, ______ 43 

Butter Crackers, _____ 44 

Graham Wafers, ----- 44 

Breads. 

Brown, __----- 52 

Steamed, _____ 53 

Graham, - - - - - - 52 

Indian Loaf, _____ 52 

Rye, _______ 51 

White, ______ 50-51 

Wholewheat, _ _ - _ - - 51 

Cakes. 

Angel's Food, ___--- 80 

Butternut, ____-- 82 

Chocolate, ------ 79 

Black, _____ 78-79 

Dried Apple, - - - - - - 81 

English Walnut, _____ 82 

Federal, -------80 

Fruit, __---- 81 

Ginger, -------77 

Gold, __-_-- 77 

Hickory Nut, _----- 82 

Jam, __-__-- 81 

Kisses, _-_---- 83 

Layer, ______ 77 

Macaroons, ___--- 82 

Maple Sugar, _____ 79 

Queen's ------ 79 

Raisin, ______ 81 

Something modern—Virot's Extracts. 



I06 FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

Scotch, --__-__ 75 

Spanish Bun, - - - - - 75 

Spice, ------- -jQ 

Sponge, ______ ,^5 

Striped, ------- yg 

Sunshine, ______ gg 

Tea, _______ 77 

Candies* 

Caramels, Chocolate, ----- 90 

Cocoanut Drops, _____ g2 

Cream Candy, ______ gj 

Creams, Almond, _____ 89 

Confectioner's, (2) - - - - 90 

Chocolate, _ - - - _ 90 

English Walnut, - - - - 89 

French, _____ gg 

Fruit, ------ 89 

Fudges, ______ g2 

Maple Sugar Scotch, ----- 92 

Molasses, ______ gQ 

Orange Fruit, Creamed, - - - - 89 

Panocha, ______ g^ 

Peanut, --_____ gi 

Peppermint, _____ g^ 

Pralines, ______ g^ 

Taffy, Confectioner's, _ _ _ _ gi 

Honey, ------ 92 

Wintergreen, ----- gi 

Cherries, ______ g^ 

Currants and Raspberries, _ - _ _ g^ 

Grape Juice, ------ g6 

Peaches, ______ g^ 

Pears, -------97 

Pie-plant, ______ g5 

Pineapple, ------ g6 

Cbccsc. 

Cheese Croquettes, ----- 39 

FondU, _____ gg 

Souffle, ______ gg 

Straws, _____ 29 

Better than the Best— Virot's Extracts. 



PRDDONIA COOK BOOK. IO7 

Cookies* 

Fruit, ____--- 84 

Ginger, ____-- 84 

Maple Sugar, ______ 84 

Molasses, ------ 83 

Orange Wafers, - - - - - - 85 

Sand Tarts, ------ 84 

Sour Cream, ------ 83 

Sugar, ------ 83 

Walnut Wafers, ------ 85 

Doughnuts. 

Crullers, -------75 

Old Fashioned, - - - - 75 

Doughnuts, ------ 74 

Lazy, ----- 74 

Fried Cakes, ------ 74 

eggs. 

Devilled, ------ 38 

Escalloped. ------ 38 

Omelet, French, ------ 37 

with Smoked Beef, _ - - 37 
Scallop, -------38 

Scrambled Eggs, ----- 37 

fnsb. 

Baked, -------16 

Boiled, ------ 16 

Codfish Balls, - - - - - - 18 

Cutlets, ------ 16 

Lobster Croquettes, - - - - - 18 

Minced Fish, ----- 18 

Salmon Loaf, - - - - - ~ I7 

Southern Shrimp, etc., - - _ - 20 
Turbot, -------17 

Gems, etc. 

Corn Pone, ------ 50 

Gems, Graham, _ _ - - - 47 

Indian Meal, ----- 48 

•Johnny Cake, ----- 50 

Muffins, ------ 46 

Corn, ----- 47 

Potato, _ _ - _ _ 47 

Pure, delicate, strong— Virot's Extracts. 



I08 FRi^DONIA COOK BOOK. 

Pop-overs, ______ 43-46 

Rye Puffs, ______ 46 

Sally Lunn, _---__ 43 

Griddic Cahcs* 

Buckwheat, ------ 49 

Flannel, ______ ^g 

Indian Meal, ------ 49 

Rice, ______ 4g 

Wheat, ___--_- 48 

Waffles, -_-___ 48 

F)oiiscbold F)int9. 

Household Hints, _____ 103-104 

Ices* 

Biscuit Glace, - _ - - - _ 72 

Cafe Parfait, _____ ^^ 

Frozen Pudding, ----- 73 

Raspberry, ______ ^^ 

Sherbet, Lemon, _____ ^2 

Orange, _____ ^2 

Icmgs attd filUngs. 

Apple, -------88 

Caramel, ______ 87 

Chocolate, ______ 87-88 

Cream, ______ 87 

Fig, -------88 

Frosting without Egg, _ _ _ _ 86 

Maple Sugar, ------ 87 

Marshmallow, _____ 87 

Plain, ___--__ 86 

'Jellies* 

Aspic, -------40 

Cranberry, ______ g^ 

General Directions, ----- 94 

Meats. 

Baked Hamburg Steak, _ _ _ _ 23 

Beef Omelet, _____ 22 

Brick of Beef, ______ 22 

Boudins, ______ 23 

Equaled by none— Virot's Extracts. 



FREDONIA CCK>K BOOK. I09 

Chicken, Cfeamed, ----- 26 

Croquettes, _ - _ _ 27 

Dressing for, ----- 25 

Pillau, _ _ _ - - 26 

Roast. ----- 24 

Liver, Stewed, _____ 24 

Royal Scallop, - - - - - - 25 

Sweetbreads, Fried, - _ _ _ - 24 

Turkey, Dressing for - - - - - 25 

Roasted, _____ 24 

Tongue de Terrapin, - - - _ _ 22 

Veal Cutlets, --_--- 24 

Loaf, ______ 23 

Oysters. 

With Brown Sauce. _____ ig 

Cocktail, ______ 21 

Creamed, ______ 21 

Croquettes, ------ 20 

Escalloped, ______ 21 

Fried, _______ jg 

Gumbo, ______ 20 

picfilcs. 

Chilli Sauces, ______ iqi 

Chow-Chow, - _ _ _ _ 100 

Cucumbers, Canned, ----- 98 

Pickled, _ _ _ _ gg 

Oil. _____ gg 

Flint, ______ g8 

Grape Catsup, ______ loi 

Green Tomato. _____ gg 

Mustard, ______ 102 

Picalilli, ______ 100 

Pickles, ------- g8 

Sweet, _____ 100 

Spiced Currant, ------ loi 

pica. 

Apple, _______ 5i 

Cream Pie-plant, _____ 52 

Currant, -------60 

Custard, Maple, _____ 62 

Pineapple, ----- 61 

For fastidious tastes— VIrot's Extracts. 



no FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

English Mince Meat, _ _ _ _ gg 

Lemon, -------60 

Snow, ______ 5q 

Brandy Peaches, ----- 96 

Ginger Pears. _____ gj 

Orange Conserve, ----- 94 

Marmalade, -___.. gj 

Strawberries, - ----- 95 

Puddings* 

Charlotte Russe, ----- 70 

Chocolate, ______ 55 

Steamed, ----- 66 

Cup, Steamed, _____ 55 

Custard, Cream, ----- 67 

French, _____ 5^ 

Dumpling, Strawberry, ----- 65 

Frozen, ______ .^^ 

Graham, -------64 

Healthful, ______ 66 

Lemon, -------68 

Mountain Dew, - - - - - 67 

Orange, -------69 

Pineapple Bavarian Cream, - - - 71 

Short Cake, - - - - - 71 

Plum, ______ 64 

Prune, _______ 69 

Snow, ______ 68 

Sponge, __----- 68 

Suet, _------ 65 

Tapioca, ___---- 70 

Yorkshire, ______ 41 

R0U9. 

Rolls, ___.. ___44 

Parkerhouse, --___- 44 

Rusks, _______ 43-45 

Cinnamon Buns, _____ 46 

8alad Dressttig. 

Cream, -------55 

Dressing, - - - - - - 54-£5 

French, -------55 

Mayonnaise, ______ 54 

For dainty toilets— Virot's Perfumes, Toilet Waters, Sachets. 



FRKDONIA COOK BOOK. Ill 

Salad. 

Celery, --_____ 55 

Chicken, ______ gy 

Orange, ______ gg 

Peanut, ______ gg 

Potato, ______ 55_56 

Sweet Bread, _____ 57-58 

Tomato, ------ 57 

Tongue, ______ 53 

Veal, ---____ 55 

Waldorf, --____ jg 

6andwicbc9. 

Celery, ______ 40 

Delicious, ______ ^q 

Sauces* 

Bearnaise, ------ 29 

Brown Sauce with Mushrooms, _ _ _ 28 

Cream Horseradish, ----- 29 

Hollandaise, _____ 29 

Mustard Dressing, ----- 30 

Spanish Sauce, _____ 28 

Tartare, ______ ^o 

Tomato, ______ ^q 

Soup. 

Asparagus ------ 10 

Black Bean, _____ jq 

Celery, _______ n 

Clam Chowder, (3) _ _ _ _ 11-12 

Corn, _______ j2 

Julienne, ______ jg 

Mullagatawny, ______ i^ 

Onion, ______ j^ 

Oyster _______ j^ 

Pea, (split) ______ 14 

Potato, - - - - - - - 15 

Salsify, ______ j^ 

Stock, _______ g 

White, _____ g 

Tomato, - - - - - - 15 

Clear, _____ jg 

Vegetable, ------ 14 

Demand and (jet— Virot's Perfumes and Extracts. 



112 FREDONIA COOK BOOK. 

"Carts. 

Banberry, - - - - - - 61 

Orange, ______ 62 

Tcgctablcs. 

Asparagus on Toast, - - - - - 31 

Beans, Baked, _____ 36 

Sour, ______ 32 

Corn Fritters, _____ 32 

Oysters, ______ 31 

Egg Plant, Fried, - - - - - 32 

Kal Dolma, - - - - ' - - 33 

Mushrooms, Stewed, _ _ _ _ 33 

Onions, Baked, ------ 35 

Oyster Plant Fritters, _ _ _ _ 34 

Potato Croquettes, ----- 34 

Sweet, _ _ _ _ 34 

Potatoes, Delmonico Hashed, - - - - 33 

Silverthorne, _ _ _ _ 34 

Rice Cakes, ------ 35 

Boiled, _---__ 104 

and Tomatoes, - - - - - 35 

Tomatoes, Fried, _ _ _ - _ 36 

Scalloped, ----- 35 

Stuffed, - _ - - _ 36 

tcast* 

Yeast, _____-- 50 



Price to suit all— Virot's Products. 




pavfumcur, 
Cbiinistc. 



Delicate perfumes, 
Choice extracts. 



Free Samples on Application. 



VIROT & CO., 

Perfumers, Chemists, 

Warren, Pa. 






M^ 




Clever Housewives 

— the really clever kind — are our best friends. They 
RECOGNIZE that "The Big Store" is a great factor in 
domestic economy; that here they can buy 

CI.OTHING, FURNISHING GOODS, 
HATS AND CAPS FOR THEIR HUS- 
BANDS AND BOYS, AND SHOES 
FOR THE WHOEE FAMILY 

for less money than at any other place 3'et discovered; 
that it pays to read our advertisements in the Buffalo daily 
papers, because, while we are always moderate in our 
prices, we offer daily certain specials, which are bargains 
indeed. 

If you are not acquainted with us, our stock and 
our prices, a little investigation is all that's needed to 
prove that the acquaintance is worth seeking. 







READY=TO=WEAR APPAREL, 

Main, Clinton & Washington Sts., 



BUFFALO. 



f^ 



ONCE TRiED==ALWAYS USED. 



;^ vDeMeft:Je:lli.);:;^c^ 



•berr^,' 
Straw- 
berry:: 



S'lmpiy Delicious QV/ ^ 




fsii 

tJranqe: 



■'.•Sirnply: /^^ 



ir^V^ 



For sale by all leading Grocers. 



M'f rs: STERN & SAALBERG, New York, 






PETER COOPER' 

CLARIFSED 



T 



Wme Jellies, 



'is 

IS 

IS 

% 

\ 

1'^ Our Pulverized Gelatine is the most convenient for iXi 
l'^ family use, as it takes much less time to dissolve. iAi 

'A^ FOR SALE BY ALL GROCERS. S^f 

\iK ii» ^»i Tbb ^m% ^» <■■ nii> liin iwii Ttoi» irtm niiin tttt ^tm iit> ^rr ^^a^^iw iiiii Tm liim "jiiit '»r-^^~^ 



mi 



s of Frmiits, ^c. 









<.|>^<$><$>(SxSxM>«xS^xS><gxMxS><g>^^<®'<S>^J><J><»'>'S><j> 






11 Demand's 




<3><S> 



€>^ 
<S><s> 

<g><i> 

II 

^# 

<S><4> 



Set of thirty cards showing the nation ^ 
<^^al flags of the principal nations of the<^^ 
^^worM. One of these cards is packed in^^ 
'i^<g>each large package of cap sheaf soda.<3><|> 
^^If a complete set is desired, we will mail<i'<^ 
^^same on receipt of Jive onejiound CuiyZx 
<^ ^ Sheaf zvrajypers. Give your name and«><J> 
^f post offlce plainly written. ^ <S> 

II DeLAlTD & CO., Fairport, K. 7. f% 




Best Laundry Starch 
in the World. 

Requires no cooking 
—saves time. 

V/il! not sticlt to tlie 
iron— saves trouble. 

Jlakes linen look lilce 
new- saves wear. 



ELECTRIC LUSTRE STARCH is 
made by a secret process which gives it 
its superiority over all other starches. 
It can be used with or without boiling. 
It will not stick to the iron, and it makes 
shirts, collars and cuffs look like new. 
For finer fabrics, such as curtains, 
draperies and the like, it is invaluable, 
and it gives skirts and shirt-waists a 
fresh and dainty appearance that is un- 
surpassed. 

BLUE PACKAGES, lo cents. 



Electric Lustre Starch Co. 



For sale by all grocers. 



BOSTON, Mass. 



I .^ -jgp^ -j^ '^ 'o)^ 'jf^ •^ -j^ '^ '^^ ',^ •jif' '^^ '^^ '^' 'jfiT '^(sil^ '^ .^^ '^' -^^ 'j^r^ 




TOTJE^lsTJ^ IDE'S 

"KITCHEP^ BOUQUET" 



For flavoring and coloring Soups, Broths, Gravies, 

Sauces, etc. It imparts a delicious fragrance, as 

well as a rich, brilliant color. 

The Liebeg Extract of Meat Co. in London, Paris and Ant- 
werp, has highly approved the merits of the Kitchen 
Bouquet, and recommends its use in their product 
as an excellent seasoning and flavoring. 

The Trade Supplied Palisadc Mfg. Co. Wcst Hobokcn, N. J. 









Dr. Fenner's 

Blood and Liver Remedy 

and Nerve Tonic. 



For the Blood and Nerves. Purifies and enriches the one, Restor- 
ing the other. They go hand in hand and make for health. 
Also Liver Complainti Biliousness, Constipation, Head- 
aches, Deranged Stomach and Bowels, Scrofula, and 
all Skin and Blood Humors and Diseases. 



This is a Sarsaparilla-Mandrake-Prince's Pine Alterative, Nerve Tonic and 
Restorative Combined. 



It causes the liver to throw off its bile. It cleans out the entire 

i stomach and bowels, ridding them of all effete, offensive and slimy 

I mucous, worms and other vermin. Cure begins with the first dose. 

I Certain as the law of gravitation. 

s Physics from the blood, liver and tissues all worn-out particles and 

g impurities, without weakening but strengthening, and restores the 

i nerves. Secures sleep, appetite, flesh, strength, comfort, freshness and 

^ blood — in a word HEALTH. 

I It makes, pure, rich blood, renovates the tissues, dissipates gloom 

i and "the blues," builds up the nerves and renews life, so to speak, in 

I the enfeebled, the care-worn, the diseased. 

I Aided by an experience of a lifetime in his enormous private prac- 

I tice, and the latest and constant contributions to exact science in the 

I healing art. Dr. Fenner is enabled to present such a remedy. Pleasant 

I to take and warming to the stomach. "Heat is life — Cold is death," 

8 said the philosopher. This Remedy is warming and LIFE. 

i No person, diseased from any cause, can take this remedy without 

ij receiving immediate and lasting benefit, because it strikes the root 

I of all disease. 

I These facts are a guaranty to the afflicted in the selection of this 

I Remedy which makes so directly and speedily for cure. 

I Get of your dealer a circular with full description and certifi- 

1 cates of some of the most remarkable cures ever achieved by 

a 

i medicine. 

I 



HANAN SHOE CO. 




Tk Fiiiest Shoe House- 



WHERE YOU CAN FIND 
THE BEST LINES OF 



Men's, Women's, Boys', Youths', Misses' aad Children's 

SHOES, MADE FROM THE FINEST GRADE LEATHERS IN 
TAN AND BLACK KID AND CALF. 



Men's Shoes, in all Styles, 
Women's Shoes, in all Styles, 
Boys' and Youths' Shoes, in all Styles, 
Misses' and Children's Shoes, all Styles, 



$2.50 to $6.00 

2.00 to 6.00 

1.25 to 3.00 

.50 to 3.50 



J. B. HUG, ngr. 



468 & 470 nain St., BUFFALO, N. Y. 



ALL MAIL ORDERS PROMPTLY FILLED. 



i^S GRAIN-O is a pure food drink which y|/ 

)£ takes the place of coffee It is a table a^ 

if£ beverage which the children, as well as yjy 

^jl^ the adult, may drink without injury. y|^ 

$ a) 

fh GRAlN-O looks and tastes like cof- # 

^ft . if 

<fft fee, but is made from pure grains and w/ 

/ft . w 

^fe the most delicate stomach receives it <(f) 

h\ without distress. It is nourishing and ^|^ 

m , . ^» 

A\ strengthening, y|^ 

ilS A lady said: "The first cup I used I (ijf 

/i^ did not like it, but after using it a week, ^J/f 

4i^ nothing could induce me to go back to ^J/f 

<fft coffee." This has been the experience ^l^ 

Hh or many. y|> 

^ Try GRAIN O. Try GRAIN-O. ff 

j^)^ Prepared by The Genesee Pure Food a-^ 



^|J Co., LeRoy, N. Y. For sale by all ^{jj 
/& grocers. 15c and 25c per package. W 





•^v. 



MAN 



t^ 






intelligent, strong and healthy. 



rs there anything more whole- 
some, more beautiful, more 
completely pleasing than a 
womanly woman ? Such a 
woman is even tempered, 
Health really tells the whole story. 
Health means strong nerves and strong body, and they go far toward 
bringing good looks and amiability. 

A woman worn and wearied by the dragging weaknesses peculiar to 
her sex, cannot be expected to find zest in any duty or amusement. I,ife 
is all one dead monotonous gloom to her. On her face is written the 
story of weakness and pain. The wholesomeness of health is lacking. 
The cheeks lack fullness, the eyes lack sparkle, the hair lacks luster. 

Doctors have learned to locate nine-tenths of womanly sickness in 
the organs that ought above all others to be strong and healthy. 

Sensitive women shudder at the thought of consulting a physician 
on such matters. A natural feeling of modesty makes them dread 
the examination, and subsequent stereotyped treatment by "local appli- 
cations ' ' on which most doctors insist. 

Much more often than not, this is unnecessary. It should not be 
submitted to except as a last resort. 

Dr. Pierce's Favorite Prescription has cured thousands of severe cases 
of " female weakness." It works in a natural, sensible way. It begins 
by subduing the inflammation that is always present. Then it strength- 
ens and invigorates the whole body, particularly the organs distinctly 
feminine. It promotes regularity, cures inflammation and ulceration, 
and stops the debilitating drain caused by them. 



O 

cu 

O 



The above brief talk on Woman's peculiar ailments is continued in a treatise of i68 pages, 
containing scores of testimonials and reproduced photographs with names and addresses of 
those cured. Ten cents (stamps) will bring this book sealed In plain enveloste; or, 
better still, the People's Common Sense Medical Adviser bound in strong paper covers, con- 
taining all the matter in the foregoing treatise, and several hnntlred pag-es besideH, 
will be MAIIiED FR£K to any one sending 25 cents in one-cent stamps to pay for pack- 
ing and postage only — contains over 1,000 pages and 300 illustrations. Over 6So,ooo copies sold 
in cloth covers at regular price of S1.50. Address (with stamps and this Coupon) for either 
book: World's Dispensary Medical Association, 663 Main Street, Buffalo, N. Y. 



YQlf^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^il^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 









ESTABLISHED 1780. 




ER & CO. Ltd. 

Dorchester, Mass., U. S. A. 

The Oldest and Largest Manu- 
facturers of 

PURE, HIGH GRADE 

wOCO^S and 



ON THIS COKTiNENT. 

Ho Chemicals are nsed in their mann- 
factures. 

Their BreaWast Cocoa is absolutely 
pure, delicious, nutritious, and costs 
less than one cent a cup. 

Their Premium Ko. 1 Chocolate is the 
best plain chocolate in the market 
for family nse. 

Tlieir German Sweet Chocolate is 
good to eat and fijood to drink. It 
IS palatable, mitritions, and health- 
ful ; a great favorite with children. 

Baron von Liebig-, one of the best known writers on dietetics, says :— 

"It [Cocoa] is a perfect food, as wholesome as delicious, a beneficent re- 
storer of exhausted power; but its quality must be good, and it must be 
carefully prepared. It is highly nourishing and easily digested, and i3 
fitted to repair wasted strength, preserve health, and prolonjc life. It 
agrees with dry temperaments and convalescents; with mothers who 
nurse their children ; with those whose occupations oblige them to 
undergo severe mental strains ; with public speakers and with all those 
who give to work a portion of the time needed for sleep. It soothcH both 
stomach and brain, and for this reason, as well as for others, it is the best 
friend of those engaged in literary pursuits." 

CONSUMERS SHOULD ASK FOR AND BE 
SURE THAT THEY GET THE GENUINE 



WALTER BAKER & CO-'S 

Goods, made at DORCHESTER, MASS., U. S. A. 



* 






^ 
« 



^ 






^****«*l«44««*i<l*^'t*********'***'^*'*'*'^'*^'* 



^ 



C'vi%--;i^3CMrtjf#C-'SC^IM-wC*#-);Mi^^^^ pepper. Beat until creamy, then fold in well 

'3 i,'^ beaten wliites of 2 eggs. Fill skins with mix- 

S Menu for Luncheon. | *"''"• Bake tin brown__ 

5 Prune Sufiie. 

|;i One-half pound prunes, 3 tablespoons pul- 
t% verized sugar, 4 eggs, l scant teaspoon of 
m "Koyce's Vanilla C." Beat yolks of eggs and 
sugar to cream, add the vanilla, mix with the 
prunes, which have been stoned, stewed, 
drained and chopped. Fold in beaten whites, 
turn into greased baking dish and bake in a 
moderate oven 20 minutes. 



Cream of Celery 
Imperial Sticks 

Brown Bread Salmon Chops 

Pickles 

French Chops and Peas 
Potatoes on the Half Shell 



White Bread 



Olives Sf 



Celery Salad a la Cardinale 
Wafers 



M 



^i Prune Suffle, Creamy Sauce i]^ 

^^ Cheese Coffee % 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

1 head of celery, l pint of water, l pint of 
cream, ^ to >< teaspoon of "Royce's Extract 
of Onion," l tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon 
flour, '■ teaspoon salt, 2 or 3 drops "Royce's 
Extract of Black Pepper," >^ teaspoon of 
"Royce's Extract of Celery." Wash, cut cel- 
ery in small pieces, cook in the pint of water 
until very soft. Mash in the water, press 
through a strainer, add to the milk, boil and 
thicken with flour and butter rubhed togeth- 
er, then cook 5 minutes. Just 'oefore serving 
add the extract of onion and celery and a 
little minced parsley. 



Salmon Chops. 

1 lb. or pt. of flsh, 1 cup of milk, 1 teaspoon 
salt, 1 tablespoon of butter, l-i teaspoon of 
"Royce's Extract of Black Pepper," 2 rounded 
tablespoons flour, 1-4 teaspoon "Royce's Ex- 
tract of Onion," yolks of 2 eggs, 1-4 teaspoon 
"Royce's Ex. of Celery," i tablespoon parsley. 

Boil the milk, thicken with butter and flour 
rubbed together. Cook 5 minutes. Remove 
from Are. add to beaten yolks of eggs, stirring 
constantly. Place on fire l minute. Add to 
the chopped or shredded flsh, which has been 
boned and seasoned with salt, pepper, pars- 
ley, 10 drops of lemon juice, celery and onion. 
Let stand several hours, then roll in crumbs, 
egg and crumbs again. Shape into form of a 
chop, stick a piece of macaroni in one end for 
the bone, fry in basket in hot fat until a 
pretty brown. 



Potatoes on the Half Shell. 

For 6 potatoes. Take gook sized smooth 
potatoes. Bake about i hour. Take from 
oven, cut into length-wise, scoop out the 
potatoes into a hot bowl. Mash, add 2 round- 
ing tablespoons of butter, 1-4 to 1-2 cup of hot 
milk, a teaspoon of salt, and a little white 



Creamy Sauce. 

One-fourth cup butter, 1-2 cup pulverized 
sugar, 1-4 teaspoon "Royce's Pure Vanilla." 4 
tablespoons cream. Cream the butter, add 
sugar slowly and beat until very light, then 
add cream and vanilla. Just before serving, 
set over tea kettle or hot water and stir until 
smooth and creamy, not long enough to melt 
the butter. Serve at once. 



Imperial Sticks. 



Cut stale bread in 1-3 inch slices, remove 
cru.sts and cut slices in 1-3 inch strips. Bake 
until nicely browned. 



French Chops, "Lamb." 

Wipe chops with a wet cloth, place them on 
a hot broiler and turn them as often as you 
can count ten by the ticking of the clock. It 
will take 8 to 10 minutes to cook chops which 
are l inch thick. Place on hot platter and rub 
with "Maitre de Hotal Butter. ' 



Maitre de Hotel Butter. 

Two tablespoons of butter, 12 teaspoon of 
salt, 2 or 3 drops of "Royce's Extract of Black 
Pepper," l tablespoon of parsley, 1-2 teaspoon 
of lemon juice. Cream the butter, and add 
seasoning. 



Celery Salad a la Cardinale. 

One bunch of celery. 

Ckkam Dressing. 
Yolks of 3 eggs, beaten, 2 tablspoons butter, 

1 teaspoon mustard, l cup of cream or milk, 

2 teaspoons of salt, 1-2 cup of hot vinegar 2 or 

3 drops "Royce's Extract Red Pepper," whites 
of 3 eggs, beaten stiff, 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Cook all but whites of eggs in double boiler 
until it thickens like boiled custard. Stir 
well, remove from flre, let cool, beat in whites 
of eggs. 

For Celery Salad a la Cardinale, add to the 
Cream Dressing, just before using, enough of 
"Royce's Fruit Red Coloring" to give the 
desired shade. 

Arrange celery in salad bowl, garnishing 
with dark and light leaves of celery. Pour 
around it the Cream Dressing which has been 
colored red. 



HBNeR ROXCe, Mfgn and perfumer, 

CLEVELAND, O. 




f NUMSER 



% 



ft. 



Fruit Trees, Asparagus, Shrubbery, 

Nut Trees, Roses, Climbing Vines, 

Small Fruits, Shade Trees, Hedge Plants, 
Grape Vines, Evergreens, Border Plants, 

In Endless Variety, First Class, Genuine, Cheap. Descriptive Catalogue Free. 

LEWIS ROESCH, FREDONIA, N. Y. 



1 
f 

f 
T 

T 



I <t fi> iiiniii I i ii> ^1 1^1 1 m tM^ ■ itftfc v \M > ^Tji nr r ~jrr -iin" ^^bitt' ^tft" ^^b^ ^-ts^ ^^tt" -^tp* ^^^' ^t^^^^^^^t^ ^^^ ^iwr"^^^' 



^ 



An Incomparable Mayonnaise. 

Has an agreeable zest, and 
a creaminess which ' 'extra 
sublime" olive oil only 
can impart. 

EVERY USER AN ENDORSER. 



Ten Ounce Bottles, 



25 Cents. 



# §^ 

I Armour's | 

I White Label I 

I Concentrated i 

I Soups. I 

I 10 cents can. | 

t ^ f 

IS 

II For Sale by ll 

If Belden & Le worthy. 1 

'§ A. R. Maytum, 1 

II FREDONIA, N. V. || 

s, ® 



MRS. JOSEPH BROWN, 



ifSimr^ rATrffFfT ■iimiTiti 



29 Day Street. 



FREDONIA, N. Y. 



Jldditional Recipes. 



[This and the following pages are reserved for writing in additional recipes 

and notes.] 



m 9 ^^'^^ 




LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



007 958 222 



