,."i^.. 



^^.T. 




IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-S) 




1.0 



I.I 



1^128 125 

|50 1"^" 



1.8 





IJ5 


1.4 III ,.6 




< 6" 


► 



V] 



^^^^ 



V 



"-^z 







O^ 






M 



Photographic 
Sciences 
brporation 



G 



33 WEST MAIN STREET 

WEBSTER, N.Y. 14580 

(716) 872-4503 




CIHM/ICMH 

Microfiche 

Series. 



CIHM/ICMH 
Collection de 
microfiches. 




Canadian Institute for Historical IVIicroreproductions / Institut Canadian de microreproductions historiques 



iV 





Tachnical and Bibliographic Notas/Notas tachniquaa at bibliographiquas 



Tha Instituta has attamptad to obtain tha bast 
original copy availabia for filming. Faaturas of this 
copy which may ba bibliographically uniqua, 
which may altar any of tha imagas in tha 
reproduction, or which may significantly changa 
tha usual mathod of filming, ara chackad baiow. 



QColourad covers/ 
Couvartura da coulaur 



I — I Covers damaged/ 



D 



D 
D 
D 



D 



D 



Couvarture endommagia 



Covers restored and/or laminated/ 
Couverture restauria et/ou palliculAa 



Cover title missing/ 



I I La titra da couvarture manque 



Coloured maps/ 



I I Cartes giographiques en coulaur 

I I Encra da couleur (i.e. autre que blaua ou noire) 



Coloured ink (i.e. other than blue or black)/ 
Encra da couleur (i.e. autre que blaue 

Coloured plates and/or illustrations/ 
Planchaa et/ou illustrations an coulaur 



Bound with other material/ 
Ralii avac d'autres documents 

Tight binding may causa shadows or distortion 
along interior margin/ 

La re liure serrie peut causer de I'ombre ou de la 
distorsion l« long da la marge intirieure 



Blank leaves added during restoration may 
appear within tha text. Whenever possible, these 
have been omitted from filming/ 
II se peut que certainas pages blanches ajouties 
lors d'une restauration apparaissant dans la texta, 
mais, lorsque cela 6tait possible, ces pages n'ont 
pas iti film^as. 

Additional comments:/ 
Commentaires supplimentaires; 



L'Institut a microfilmi la meilleur exemplaire 
qu'il lui a M possible de se procurer. Les details 
de cat exemplaire qui sont paut-itra uniques du 
point de vue bibliographiqua, qui pauvent modifier 
una image reproduite, ou qui peuvent exiger une 
modification dans la mAthoda normala de filmage 
sont indiquAs ci-dessous. 



r~~l Coloured pages/ 



D 
E 



D 



Pagaa da coulaur 

Pages damaged/ 
Pages endommagias 



Pages restored and/or laminated/ 
Pages restaur^es et/ou palliculAes 

Pages discoloured, stained or foxed/ 
Pages dAcolorAes, tacheties ou piquAes 



[~n Pages detached/ 



Pages d^tachees 

Showthroughy 
Transparence 

Quality of prir 

Quality in^i^ala de {'impression 

includes supplementary matarii 
Comprand du material suppUmentaire 

Only edition available/ 
Seule idition disponible 



r^ Showthrough/ 

I I Quality of print varies/ 

r~~l Includes supplementary material/ 

pn Only edition available/ 



Pages wholly or partially obscured by errata 
slips, tissues, etc., have been refilmed to 
ensure the best possible image/ 
Les pages totalement ou partiellement 
obscurcies par un feuillet d'errata, une pelure, 
etc., cnt iti filmies d nouveau de facon d 
obtanir la meilleure image possible. 



This item is filmed at the reduction ratio checked below/ 

C« document est filmi au taux da rMuction indiqui ci-dessous. 

10X 14X 18X 22X 



26X 



30X 

























J 



















12X 



16X 



20X 



24X 



2IX 



32X 



Th« copy film«d h«ra hu b««n raproduead thanks 
to tha ganaroaity of: 

D. B. Weldon Library 
University of Wmtern Ontario 
(Regional History Room> 

Tha Imagaa appaaring nara ara tha baat quality 
poasibia eonaidaring tha condition and lagibility 
of tha original copy and In kaaping with tha 
filming contract spacificationa. 



L'axampiaira fiimA fut raproduit grica i la 
giniroaiti da: 

D. B. Weldon Library 

University of Western Ontario 

(Regional History Room) 

l.aa imagaa auivantaa ont 4t4 raproduitaa avac la 
plua grand soin, compta tanu da la condition at 
da la nattati da l'axampiaira filmA, at •$% 
conformitA avac laa conditiona du contrat da 
fiimaga. 



Original eopiaa In printad papar eovars ara fiimad 
baginning with tha front covar and anding on 
tha laat paga with a printad or lllustratad impraa- 
sion, or tha back covar whan appropriata. All 
othar original eopiaa ara fiimad baginning on tha 
first paga with a printad or lllustratad Impraa- 
sion. and anding on tha laat paga with a printad 
or lllustratad Impraaaion. 



Laa axamplairaa originaux dont la eouvartura an 
papiar aat imprim4a sont filmte an commandant 
par la pramiar plat at an tarminant soit par la 
damlAra paga qui comporta una amprainta 
dimproaaion ou dllluatratlon. soit par la sacond 
plat, salon la eas. Tous laa sutraa sxamplairoa 
originaux sont filmte an commandant par la 
pramiira paga qui comporta una amprainta 
dimpraaaion ou dllluatratlon at an tarminant par 
la damiira paga qui comporta una taila 
amprainta. 



Tha laat racordad frama on aach microfieha 
shall contain tha symbol «*^ (moaning "CON- 
TINUEO"), or tha symbol ▼ (moaning "END"), 
whiehavar appiiaa. 



Un daa symboiaa suivants apparattra sur la 
damiAra imaga da chaqua microfieha, salon la 
caa: la symbols — »> signifia "A SUiVRE". la 
symbola V signifia "FIN". 



Mcifi, piataa, charts, ate., may ba fiimad at 
dif' >re>'«v rad'jction ratioa. Thoaa too iarga to ba 
antirciy In Judi»<J in ona axpoaura ara fiimad 
baginning <n th«9 uppar iaft hand eomar, laft to 
right and top to L^ottom, aa many framaa aa 
raquirad. Tha following diagrama illuatrata tha 
mathod: 



Laa cartaa. planchaa. tabiaaux. ate, pauvant itra 
filmia A daa taux da rMuetion diffdrants. 
Lorsquo la documant aat trap grand pour Atra 
raproduit an un saui ciiehA, 11 aat fiimA i partir 
da i'angia supAriaur gaucha, da gaueiw A droita. 
at da haut an baa. ii pranant la nombra 
dlmagaa n4caaaaira. Laa diagrammas suivants 
illustrant la mAthoda. 



X 



1 2 3 




1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 



w^^m^^^nw 



I pii II, mi i^m» 



/^/^f Ar^-f^^^ 



i j}^ wwii w' w' %r 'issJl! 






Report of 

MRS. HOODLESS . . 



On Domestic. Science 



T 



rr\ 



REPORT 



OF 



Mrs. Hood less 



ON 



Domestic Science 



Including a recent visit to the Schools of 
Philadelphia and Washington. 




TORONTO : 
WAIIWIOK BliO'S & RlfTTER, PHINTHRS, &i., &t., ti« anh 70 FRONT STREET WEST. 

1899. 



f 



REPORT OF MRS. HOODLESS 



ON 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Including: a recent visit to the Schools of Philadelphia and Washing^ton. 



There is no branch of edncational development receiving greater attention in the 
schools of Great Britain, Germany, Belgium, Sweden and the United States, than that of 
manual training, and no feature of manual training is receiving so much attention as that 
of domestic science. It has become a recognized fact that the principles of education 
must be applied to the management of the home and of children. The introduction of this 
practical subject has proved of value not only to the nation at large, through a develop- 
ment of a higher ideal of home life ; but by enabling head and hand to work together, it 
has been accepted as a powerful factor in mental development. 

A few extracts from reports recently published may help to convince the sceptical 
that these conclusions have not been arrived at without careful investigation and experi- 
ment. 

The Royal Commission of England on Elementary Education in its report for 1887 
laid down the principle " that the true object of education is to give such instruction to the 
scholars as will best fit them to fulfil the ordinary duties of the life to which they are most 
likely to be called." This led to much discussion, and as it was generally conceded that the 
duty most likely to devolve upon the great majority of girls attending the schools would be 
in some form of domestic life, it was decided to introduce domestic science into the regular 
elementary and secondary school courses. The popularity of the subjrct may be shown by 
the following statistics : " During the first year in which the Education Department 
included it in the code the number of girls who received instruction qualifying for the 
Government grant (4 shillings per pupil) was 7,597 from 457 schools. In 1896, 134,930 
girls received the requisite instruction in 2,729 schools. This enormous increase in the 
work was watched with much interest by the Education Department. Her Majesty's 
Inspectors were requested to specially note and report to the Department upon the pro- 
gress of the subject. The report was as follows : " The cookery classes are doing good 
work. The experiment is remarkably successful ; the girls keenly enjoy their lessons ; 
they are taught to be cleanly, careful and economical, and such teaching is likely to be of 
permanent value." 

This was very encouraging in the face of the difficulty in securing competent teachers 
for which no special training had been provided. This difficulty, however, has been 
removed, as there are now several training schools for teachers in England, and a high 
standard of efficiency is required. 

The latest report, 1898, of the Royal Commission on practical and manual instruction 
in Primary Schools, appointed by the National Board of Education in Ireland, contains 
much valuable information. The Oommission consisted of fourteen educational authori- 
ties. 

Ninety-three meetings were held, the evidence taken of 186 persons who were con- 
sidered qualified to give information, and 119 schools were visited where manual and prac- 
tical training was actually given. These investigations included visits to Belgium, Ger- 
many, France, Sweden and the United States. 



f 



An extract from the report in reference to the teaching of Domeatic Science in Ger- 
many will Hhow the value placed upon the Hubject in that country. " Cookery and 
Domestic Economy : — This subject has of late been coming very much to the front in 
connection with primary education. Facilities are now provided for it in moat if not all 
towns, and it is beiof; introduced as an obli^'atory subject in several important centres such 
as Oologne and Strasburg. Needlework: — This subject is taught almost universally in 
Ourmany and Switzerland. The hours of instruction are from two to five in the week." 

The report from Belgium says : "There is no phase of popular education in Belgium 
more remarkable or more interesting than the development of instruction in household 
duties for girls." 

In Bumming up, the Commissioners, among many others, make the following recom- 
mendations : 

" We are of opinion that the general principles and methods of the system known by 
the name of Kindergarten .... should be extended, as far as possible, to all 
schools attended by infant children." 

" We think that Kindergarten methods and principles should be continued in 
Classes [,, II. and III. of ordinary schools, in the form of paper folding, card board 
work, wire work, bricklaying, clay modelling, and such like manual exercises." 

Domestic Science. — "The evidence ve have bad in reference to cookery shows the 
attractiveness of the subject to the pupils, and its usefulness in securing greater 
regularity of attendance, and in encouraging the pupils to stay on longer at school We 
are of opinion that this useful subject should be encouraged in the schools. We consider 
that the teaching of this subject should be continuous, not in the sense that it should be 
taught every day, but that it should bo taught in one or more classes each week 
throughout the school year, .... that it must be made to aid the general 
course of education." 

Sewing. — " We are satisfied that three hours a week is quite sufficient for instruc 
tion in sewing. The proposed introduction of other subjects of practical instruction is 
an additional reason why less time than at present should be devoted to needlework. 
There is great danger of needlework becoming mechanical. To guard against this danger 
special attention should be paid to the educational side of the subject ; the work should 
be varied, and where possible, frequent demonstrations on the blackboard should be given," 

The progress made, together with the apparent educational value placed upon these 
practical subjects in other countries has led to a consideration of their introduction into 
the public schools of Ontario. 

It is generally conceded, after years of experience, without which an educational 
system cannot be perfected, that a strictly mental or theoretical training has not produced 
satisfactory results. 

That the brain must be the directing power is, of course, acknowledged ; but mental 
power without the ability to execute, without the co operation of eye and hand, is not 
the kind of education which will " fit scholars for the ordinary duties of life." The 
more advanced theories in regard to education involve the training of the senses as 
agents of the mind in acquiring a true knowledge of things. 

Familiarity with things can never be given by a study of words alone. The percep- 
tive faculty must be trained. The fact must never be overlooked that the value of these 
subjects is based upon their aid to mental development. They must not occupy an 
isolated position in the school curriculum, but must justify their existence as living 
exponents of abstract principles to the general cause of education. For this reason it has 
been earnestly recommended, by leaders in the movement, that teachers employed for these 
subjects should have a general knowledge of the regular school work. The most success- 
ful teachers have been those who, in addition to the regular normal course prescribed for 
public school teachern, have taken a course in a technical school. 

In order to .'itudy the actual work and methods practised in some of the educa- 
tional centres of the United States, where conditions and general edacation are more in 



i 
I 



I 

I 



I 



line with those of Ontario, visits have been made to sohools in New \ ork, Boston, and 
quite recently to Washington and Philadelphia. Each state and city has its own plan 
of work, although a marked similarity is apparent. Much depends upon the energy 
and ability of the Huperintendent. In Waahington a complete system of manual training 
has been established with most gratifying results. It has been introduced on a strictly 
educational basis and occupies the same position as theother obligatory subjects. The course 
for girls is practically the same as that given on a preceding page, which was recommended 
by the Royal Commission as suitable for Standards I., II. and III., including the Kin- 
dergarten. Each class room contains a large collection of seeds, minerals, fossils, etc. 
Special attention is given to clay modelling, and drawing, which is almost entirely free- 
hand. In the more advanced grades this training is turned to account in drafting and 
designing garments. The senior grades are allowed one and a half hours a week in 
the drafting, cutting, fitting and making of these garments, for which special rooms are 
provided in diflerent sections of the city, One hour a week is given to plain sewing 
all through the primary grades. In the more advanced grades the pupils are allowed to 
bring the material for simple garments from home. The method of instruction in this 
subject leaves no doubt as to the connection between designing and drafting with mathe- 
matical precision and drawing. It provides excellent practical training in these two sub- 
jects besides developing the artistic and creative faculty. During the sewing course fre- 
quent talks are given by the teacher on the manufacture of the various articles in use, such 
as needles, scissors, thread, cotton, wool, silk, etc. Samples of the raw material and in the 
various processes of manufacture are provided for each school. In this way the pupils are 
given a knowledge of good and bad material. The lessons are intensely interesting and 
make a pleasant change from book work. This variety of occupation has resulted in 
better order in the schools, more regular attendance, increased interest and prolonged 
attendance at school. The older girls are anxious to reach the cutting and fitting room, 
and the domestic science classes. (See Philadelphia report.) Fifteen regular teachers of 
sewing are employed in the Washington schools, each having charge of a district and devo- 
ting one hour a week to the primary clasHes, and one and a half hours to those of the 
senior grade. The domestic science department is in charge of twelve regular instructors. 

The necessary expenses for material, etc., are paid from the regular school appro- 
priation for industrial instruction. 

The sewing course in the PhiUdelphia schools is very similar to that followed in 
Washington, with the exception that drafting and cutting on paper patterns is carried 
through the whole course, which begins «7ith the third school year, and all the work is 
done in the regular class-room . There are forty-one instructors of sewing in the Phila- 
delphia schools under the charge of a supervisor. The teachers use the blackboard rery 
freely, and through questions and answers enable the pupil to understand the underlying 
principles of all needlework. In many echools the boys take sewing and are among the 
brightest pupils. Six conts per annum is allowed for each child engaged in sewing. 

Domestic Science. — Domestic Science forms part of the general education for girls 
in nearly all the leading cities and towns in the United States, as in Europe. It has 
gone beyond the experimental stage, and is being rapidly introduced into the high 
schools and colleges. While the subject is frequently considered in connection with the 
primary schools, under the bead of cookery it must not be inferred that cooking in the 
sense of pleasing the palate, and the ability to prepare new and elaborate dishes, is the 
ultimate object of Eucb teaching. On the contrary, it is based upon scientific, hygienic 
and health principles. 

Economy, cleanliness, method, promptneas and development of executive ability are 
the primary objects. With the co-ordination of other subjects it brings mental applica- 
tion to the daily duties which must result in producing a higher type of home life and 
physical perfection. 

There is no greater factor in promoting the welfare of a nation than its home lifet 
therefore it is worthy of notice that in no department of education has greater progress 
been made during the last ten years than in that of domestic science, which teaches the 
true principles of household management as related to health and income, 



The following extract from the report of the Superintendent of Schoola in Philadel- 
phia may give an idea of its growth in that City : " The teaching of cooking in the 
public schools . . . began experimentally in 1887." The experiment was watched 
carefully by all interested, and by the close of the term in June, 1888, the Board of 
Public Education became satisfied not only of the value of the instruction, but also of the 
practicability of making it a branch of the curriculum of the schools. 

The Board therefore assumed the responsibility of the instruction in the girls' High 
Schools, and elected a permanent teacher. In 1889, owing to the increased number of 
pupils attending the school, it was found necessary to furnish another kitchen and a 
second teacher was employed. 

The result of the instruction in the girls' High School was so satisfactory that in 1888 
a school kitchen was opened experimentally for girls of the higher grades of the public 
schools. This also proved successful and in the Autumn of 1889 the first permanent 
cooking centre for grammar schools (occupying the same place as the senior grades of 
public schools in Ontario) was established ... In 1891 a second school kitchen was 
opened, and at present writing, 1897, there are eight cooking centres under the control 
of the Board of Education. " The pupils are taken from classes of the sixth school year. 
The time required for the course of lessons averages two and a half hours per week 
from October to June. The system gives each teacher of cooking ten classes a week, and 
one school kitchen can accommodate 250 pupils." 

" The eight schools accommodate 2,000 pupils, and as there are over 4,000 sixth-year 
pupils in the grammar grades it is seen that it cannot be made compulsory (as in Wash- 
ington) until facilities are largely increased." 

" The interest manifested by the girls and parents, and by the large number of 
progressive teachers, shows how highly the instruction has been appreciated. It is 
expected that before long, additional school kitchens will be furnished in convenient 
localities, and accommodation provided for all grammar school pupils of the proper age." 
It is worthy of note that in every case where domestic science was introduced first into 
High Schools, it was afterwards found advisable to provide the primary trainins; in the 
Public Elementary Schools. Consequently in planning a system for the schools of Ontario 
it will be well to remember this fact, and benefit by the experience of others, 

In summing up the general evidence given in connection with these investigations, and 
which has been the result of actual experience, the following may be accepted as the 
benefit to be derived from the introduction of these practical subjects into the public 
school curriculum : 

1. It tends to inspire respect for skilled labor, and domestic duties. 

2. It develops self-respect and self-reliance, especially in pupils who dislike books, 

3. It develops general intelligence and increases interest in school work. 

4. It cultivates habits of neatness, attention, accuracy and industry. 

6. It improves the health and strengthens the will power. 

As the chief objections to the introduction of these subjects into the Public School 
System of Ontario are — Ist, overcrowded curriculum ; 2nd, expense , it may be well to 
submit evidence concerning such important points. N. B. Powell, Superintendent of the 
Washington Schools says, in reference to the effect of such instruction upon the other 
studies : — "I feel very sure that the unbiassed testimony of all connected with the public 
schools of Washington is that our academic work has been substantially and perceptibly 
improved and made more agreeable to the pupils by virtue of the co-related manual of 
exercises. The result has been health-giving and has changed the attitude of children's 
minds toward the subject of education." 

Instead of these subjects overcrowding the curriculum, they are made to serve as 
new methods for conveying knowledge, as already stated, by co-relating the subjects taught 
in the schools. It has not been found necessary in a single instance to reduce the number 
of subjects. In many cases through the interest awakened in these classes, dull pupils 
have made marked progress in thpir other pobopl wprk. 



Dr. MaoAUster, for many years aaperint«ndent of aohools in Philadelphia, now Preai- 
dent of Drexel Institute, 8ay<i: — *'The thing which must be kept constantly in mind is 
that the new studies are not simply annexed to the existing carrioulam, but are to be 
worked into it as an integral part of the general edncation given in the schools." There- 
fore, it must be remembered that the introdaotion of sach practical subjects as cooking 
and sewing should not be considered as an additional mental tax, but rather as mentu 
recreation while developing other faculties. 

EXPENBR. 

An exaggerated idea is usually entertained concerning the expense of such instruction. 
There are two points of view from which it is well to consider this question. Ist. The 
relative value of these subjects as they aflfect tne general principles of education ; 2nd. 
The economic value of such instruction. The returns have been so sure and satisfactory 
in every case where such training has been provided, that the matter of expense has become 
of minor importance. No objections have been raised by ratepayers after a fair trial of 
the system. As domestic science has been successfully introduced into the public schools 
of Halifax and Montreal, a fair estimate of the expense may be taken from reports received 
from these two cities. The cost of furnishing a class room varies from $200 to $300. 
Teachers' salaries vary from $500 to $600 per annum ; $100 a year is allowed for materials 
and $100 for extras, such as fuel, etc. The pupils are taught the care of utensils, therefore 
very little annual outlay is necessary for replenishing the class-room. Each school kitchen 
accommodates from 200 to 250 pupils, taken from the senior grades. The most satisfactory 
age for such instruction is from 12 to 15 years. The pupils from the various schools 
attend these classes one-half day or 2| hours each week. The system ado[)ted in Halifax 
and Montreal is practically the same as that of Washington, Boston, Philadelphia, and 
other eities throughout the United States. 

From this general summary of the practice and principles of teaching domestic 
science, the possibility of incorporating such instruction with the regular school work will 
be clearly seen. 

There is no part of a girl's education which is so likely to produce a permanent effect 
or to exercise a better influence than an intelligent study of domestic science, which gives 
a practicp.l knowledge of the essential principles underlying true home making. 



ADELAIDE HOODLESS. 



Hamilton, March 10th, 1899. 



