
IMEMORIAL POULTRY LIBRARY. 




ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
New York State Colleges 

OF 

Agriculture and Home Economics 

AT 

Cornell University 



Cornell University Library 
TX 745.D25 1899 



Egg dainties:how to cook eggs in 150 way 




3 1924 003 579 863 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003579863 




^ IK 1 50 WAYS 




Save Time, Money, & Labot 
by usingf 

HUGON'S 

"ATORTBEEF SDEl 

Guaranteed Pure, Fresh English Beef Suet onl 

For Frying, for Puddings, Pastry-making, Cake 
&c. Used by the leading professional Cooks f 
all cooking purposes. 



Imparts no flavour of fat of any kind 

Unlike lard or inferior butters 

or margarine. 



Ready for Use. Keeps sweet for months. Il| 
goes as far as 2lbs. raw suet. 



Sold by an Grocers, lib. box, 8d 



The Soli Manufacturers 



Hugon & Co., Ltd., 

Pendleton, Manchestei" 



BOOKS FOR LADIES. 



The Encyclopeedia of Practical Cookery.— A complete 
Dictionary of all pertaining to the Art of Cookery and 
Table Service. Edited by Thko. Francis Garreit, 
assisted by eminent Chefs de Cuisine and ConfectionerK. 
Profusely Illustrated with Coloured Plates and Engravings 
by Harold Furness, Geo. Crdikshank, W. Munn 
Andrew, and others. In 2 vols., demy ^o, half mirccco, 
cushion eel ges, price jQ'^ y. ; carriage free, ^3 S*. 

Cookery for Amateurs ; or, French Dishes for English Homes 
of all Classes. Includes Simple Cookery, Middle Class 
Cookery, Superior Cookery, Cookery for Invalids, and 
Breakfast .Mnd Luncheon Cookery. By Madame Valerie. 
Second Ediiion. In paper, price is., by post is. 2d. 

Cold Meat Cookery. — A Handy Guide to making really lasty 
and much appreciated Dishes from Cold Meat. By Mrs. 
J. E. Davidson. In paper, price is., by post is. 2d. 

Fish, Flesh and Fowl. — When in Season, How to Select, 
Cook, and Serve. By Mary Barrett Brown. In paper, 
price IS,, by post is. yl. 

American Dainties, and How to Prepare Them. B}r an 
American Lady. In paper, price is., by post is. 2d, 

Dainties, English and Foreign, and How to Prepare Them. 
By Mrs. IJavidson. In paptr, price is., by post is. 2d. 

London : L. Upcott Gill, 170, Strand, W.C. 



EGG DAINTIES: 

150 WAYS OF COOKING EGGS. 



EGG DAINTIES: 

HOW TO COOK EGGS IN 150 WAYS, 



English and Foreign. 



MRS. HUGH COLEMAN DAVIDSON, 

Author of '*Cold Meat Cookeiy,'" ^'Dainties, English 
and PoreiSiny etc. 



SECOND EDITION. 



From The Library of 
Dr. OIney Brown Kent 

^oitbon ; 
L. UPCOTT GILL, 170, Strand, W.C. 

1899. 





Subscription 



1, 



Isthe LEADING BAKERY JOURNAL, 

and should be read by every BAKER and CON- 
FECTIONER who desires to keep IN TOUCH 

with the TIMES ! 
It contains information which is both interesting 

and instructive. 
MUCH THAT YOU WOULD LIKE TO KNOW ! 
MUCH THAT YOU OUGHT TO KNOW ! 

Guaranteed Circulation 0,3OO. . 

4g. per annum. Foreign 6s. 

Specimen Copy, Sixpence. 
ELIOT HILL, LEWISHAM, LONDON. 



♦<►♦ 



SOMETHING WORTH KNOWING i 

BUSINESS Expansion and constant accession of New Custom is 
possible to all Tradesmen who pursue the rig-htmethods ! Success 
or Failure depeuda more on 
the BAKING 

than the MAKING ! 
Succesaf ul Bakers and Con- 




GEEN'S 

Gold Medal Self -Acting, 

Hygienic, Smokeless, and 

Continuous 

OVENS, 

And that is the reason "WHY 
they are suoces.sful ! 
• If you want to do more BUSINESS send to-day for Price List 
and Illustrated Catalogue to— 

GEEN, Ltd., 1. Eliot Hill, LEWISHAM, LONDON. 



feotioners use 



PREFACE. 



In many English households it is seldom that 
eggs appear at table in any other form than poached 
or boiled. Omelettes are considered luxuries, even 
if the cook can make them decently — which is not 
often the case — and few people seem to have heard 
of tortillas. The reason sometimes given is that 
eggs are expensive. So, in a sense, they are ; yet, 
in another sense, they are cheap, for they form a 
perfect food, containing more real nutriment than 
anything else of the same bulk which can be 
obtained at the same price. 

Perhaps a word of warning against the substitu- 
tion of so called " egg powders " for eggs may not 
be out of place here. Apart from the flour of which 
they are largely composed, the proportion being 
usually about 50 per cent., these powders have little 
or no value as food. The best of them does not 
contain more than 6 per cent, of albuminous com- 
pounds, whereas an egg contains as much as 22 J per 
cent. The two most important ingredients in them 
are tartaric acid and baking powder, and their action 
is due solely to the disengagement of carbonic acid. 
No doubt, when pastry has to be made in a hurry 
they are useful enough, but they always dry it, and 
they can never really take the place of eggs. 

On the continent the value of eggs is appreciated 
far better than it is in England. There they are 
cooked in an almost infinite variety of ways, most of 
them excellent, and some especially suitable for 
breakfast dishes. The object of this little book is 
to give a selection. 

J. E. D. 



nEl?i:-(\L>{:->bU-(J?iNGT?-ttY-FBrTr.y\'*?\AiD.! 




(in (LASS - 
- 'lABLE - 

^ Delicacies ° 







C<2)hippdm-ghiLhe6fcr-L:sHlg53 



Awarded GOLD MEDAL, 1897, 

Universal Cookery and Food Exhibition, I.oxdox. 



EGG DAINTIES: 

150 WAYS OF COOKING EGGS. 



I. — To Test an Egg. 

Dissolve two ounces of salt in a pint of 
water, and place the egg to be tested in the 
liquid. If not perfectly good, it will float. 

2. — To Preserve Eggs. 

Dissolve sufficient gum arable in water to 
make rather a thick liquid. As soon as 
possible after the eggs have been laid, coat 
them thoroughly with it, and then keep them 
in a box filled with powdered charcoal ; when 
they are required for use the coating will wash 
off. 

Second Method. — If submerged in- good oil 
the eggs will keep fresh for a long time. 

Third Method. — On the day they are laid 
boil them as if for use, and when they are 



EGG COOKERY. 



required put them into a saucepan of cold 
water. When the water is quite hot they will 
be sufficiently cooked. 

3. — Pickled Eggs. 

Ingredients. — Eggs, one quart of vinegar, one ounce of 
whole ginger, one tea-spoonful of cloves, one blade of mace, 
one tea-spoonful of whole pepper. 

Boil the spices for five minutes in the vinegar, 

and leave them to steep for three days ; then 

strain the vinegar : boil the eggs for ten 

minutes, throw them into cold water, and take 

off the shells ; when they are quite cold put 

them into jars and cover with the vinegar. 

4. — Boiled Eggs. 

Put the eggs into boiling water, and let them 
boil for three minutes ; take them off the fire, 
and leave them in the water for a minute to set 
the whites. Or : Put the eggs into cold water, 
and leave them on the fire until the water boils, 
when the whites v\'ill be set. 

5. — Eggs Blandos. 

Put the eggs into boiling water, and let them 
boil for five minutes. Throw them into cold 
water and take off the shells. Though the 
whites will be hard, the yolks will be soft. 



EGG COOKERY. 13 



6. — Poached Eggs. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, one tea-spoonful of vinegar, lemon 
juice. 

Put some water into a shallow pan with a 

tea-spoonful of vinegar, and when it is boiling, 

break the eggs carefully in it, keeping them 

separate and very round ; when they are set 

take them out with a thin slice, and trim 

the edges. Serve on buttered toast or fried 

bread, and sprinkle a few drops of lemon juice 

on each. 

7. — Hard Eggs. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, oil, vinegar. 

Boil the eggs for ten minutes, throw them 
into cold water, and take off the shells. Serve 
them whole, or cut into slices, with oil, vinegar, 
salt, and pepper. 

8.— Fried Eggs. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, one large bunch of parsley. 

Put a good quantity of oil or butter into a 
shallow pan, and when it boils break the eggs 
carefully into it, and fry them till the whites 
are crisp ; fry the parsley, and lay it on porous 
paper to drain. Serve the eggs on fried bread, 
and dress the parsley over them. 



14 EGG COOKERY 

9. — Eggs Mejidos. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, two ounces of castor sugar. 

Beat the eggs well ; add the sugar and a small 
cupful of boiling water, and beat all together 
asecond time. This is an excellent drink for 
an invalid when milk would be too heavy. 

10. — Egg Rissoles with Ham. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, half a pound of ham or bacon. 

Cut the ham or bacon into small dice, and 
fry them gently until the fat is partly melted ; 
then take them out and allow them to drain ; 
melt some lard or bacon fat in the pan, and 
when it boils strew in one-sixth of the dice ; 
break in an egg, keeping it well covered with 
the fat until it is sufficiently cooked ; place it 
on a dish in the oven, and proceed in the same 
manner with the remainder. They should be 
round and well covered with the dice. Serve 
very hot. 

II. — Eggs con Raspados. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, one anchovy, one tea-spoonful of 
chopped parsley, one salt-spoonful of chopped onion, one blade 
of garlic, one tea-cupful of sifted bread crumbs, two ounces 
of butter. 

Bone, skin, and chop the anchovy, rub a 
basin with the garlic, and in it mix the 



EGG COOKERY. 15 

anchovy, onion, parsley, a great part of the 
bread crumbs, the butter and the yolks of three 
eggs ; put the mixture into a stewpan, and stir 
for a minute over a moderate fire ; slide it on 
a dish and break the remaining eggs carefully 
over ; powder with sifted bread crumbs and 
bake in a moderate oven until the eggs are set. 
Serve with sippets of fried bread. 

12.— Pastel of Eggs. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, three ounces of butter, four ounces 
of grated cheese. 

Beat the eggs, add the cheese and butter, and 
mix all well together. Warm the mixture in a 
stewpan over a gentle fire, and stir until it is 
thick. Serve on buttered toast. 

13. — Eggs Revueltos con Coliflores. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, two table-spoonsful of thick cream or 
rich gravy, one tea- cupful of cauliflower. 

Cook the cauHflower till tender ; break the 

eggs into a pan with the cream ; season with 

salt and pepper, and place over a gentle fire ; 

add the vegetables, and stir the mixture till it 

thickens. Serve with sippets of fried bread. 

Mushrooms or other vegetables can be used 

instead of cauliflower. 



1 6 EGG COOKERY. 

14. — Eggs Revueltos con Asparagos. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, one table -spoonful of thick cream, 
one large cupful of asparagus heads. 

Cook the asparagus heads until tender ; break 
the eggs into a pan with the cream, season with 
salt and pepper and place on the fire ; add the 
asparagus, and stir the mixture till it thickens. 
Serve with sippets of fried bread. 

15. — Egg Rissoles. 

Tngredients.^Six eggs, one table spoonful of thick cream, 
one table-spoonful of chopped parsley, one table-spoonful of 
bread crumbs, one large bunch of parsley. 

Boil five eggs for ten minutes ; pound the 
parsley with the yolks of the eggs and the 
cream ; season with salt and pepper ; chop 
the whites, stir them into the mixture, and form 
into small balls ; roll them in egg and bread 
crumbs, and a second time in egg ; fry a pale 
brown in plenty of boiling fat or oil. Serve 
with plenty of fried and drained parsley. 

i6. — Tortilla au Naturel. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, two ounces of butter. 

Beat the eggs well, and season them with 
salt and pepper ; melt the butter in a saute pan, 
and when it is warm pour in the eggs ; keep 
the pan moving to prevent burning, and when 



EGG COOKERY. 



the tortilla is lightly browned, turn it with 
plate or by tossing, and brown the other side. 
Serve immediately. 

17. — Tortilla of Kidneys. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, two kidneys, one dessert-spoonful 
of chopped parsley, one dessert-spoonful of chopped onion, half 
a tea-cupfal of stock, one ounce of butter, half a tea-cupful of 
milk, two ounces of oil or butter. 

Cut the kidneys in slices and stew them with 
the parsley, onion, and one ounce of butter in 
the stock until they are tender. Break the 
eggs and beat them with the milk and a little 
pepper and salt ; warm the oil in a saute pan 
and pour in the eggs, shaking to prevent burn- 
ing ; when browned on one side, place the 
tortilla on a dish with the kidneys and season- 
ing in the centre. Fold over the tortilla and 
serve. 

18.— Tortilla of Ham. 

Ingredients.^Vhx^^ eggs, half a pound of ham, two. ounces 
of butter or oil. 

Cook the ham, chop it, and put it with the 

oil or butter in a pan ; beat the eggs well, and 

season with mustard and pepper ; pour them 

into the oil and stir for a moment, then let the 

tortilla set, taking care that it does not adhere 



1 8 EGG COOKERY. 



to the pan. When slightly browned, turn and 
brown the other side. 

19.— Tortilla a la Celestina. 

Ingredients.— TvieXvt eggs, four ounces of butter, essence of 
vanilla or lemon juice, preserve. 

Make four separate tortillas as in No. 16 ; 

cover two of them with preserve, and two with 

essence or lemon juice and sugar. Roll and 

place them on a dish. 

20. — Tortilla Soplada. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, half a lemon, one ounce of sifted 
sugar, two ounces of butter. 

Chop the peel of the lemon very finely ; add 
with the sugar to the yolks of the eggs ; beat 
all together; melt the butter in a saute pan, 
and proceed as in No. 16. 

21. — Tortilla de Cuba. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, half a lemon, one ounce of sifted 
sugar, quarter gill of rum, two ounces of butter. 

Warm the butter in a saute pan ; beat sepa- 
rately the whites and yolks of the eggs and stir 
them gently together ; grate the peel of the 
lemon and mix with the sugar into the eggs ; 
beat altogether again ; pour the mixture into 
the warm butter, shaking well to prevent 



EGG COOKERY. ig 

burning ; when the tortilla is lightly browned, 
turn it with a plate and brown the other side ; 
sprinkle the rum over and serve immediately. 

22.— Tortilla de Confituras. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, one ounce of apricot or pineapple 
preserve, three ounces of butter. 

Warm the butter in a saute pan ; beat sepa- 
rately the whites and the yolks of the eggs, mix 
them gently together, add the preserve and beat 
them again ; pour the mixture into the butter 
and brown it lightly on one side, turn it with a 
plate and brown the other side ; the pan must 
be kept moving to prevent sticking. Serve 
immediately. 

23. — Tortilla with Parsley. 

Ingredients. — ^Ten eggs, one table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 
one salt-spoonful of chopped onion, four ounces of butter, bread 
crumbs. 

Beat nine eggs well, and add the parsley, 
onion, and a little pepper and salt ; melt three 
ounces of butter in a saute pan, and (as in 
Recipe 16) make three separate tortillas with 
the eggs, and using a third of the melted 
butter for each one ; roll them tightly, and cut 
each in half ; cover with egg and bread crumbs ; 
put the rest of the butter in the pan, and when 



EGG COOKERY. 



boiling fry the tortillas brown. Serve with 
plenty of fried parsley. 

24.— Tortilla with French Beans. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, one tea-cupful of French beans, two 
ounces of oil or butter. 

Cook the beans until they are tender, and 
drain them ; warm the butter in a saute pan, 
and fry the beans ; season with salt and pepper ; 
beat the eggs and pour them into the pan ; 
skake it until they are set and one side begins 
to colour ; turn the tortilla with a plate, and 
let the other side set. Serve hot. 

25. — Tortilla of Spinach. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, two ounces of butter, one tea-cupful 
of boiled spinach, lemon juice. 

Chop the spinach and sprinkle well with 

lemon juice, season with salt and pepper, and 

fry it hghtly in the butter ; beat the eggs and 

pour them into the mixture ; let the tortilla set, 

then turn it with a plate, and set the other 

side. Serve hot. 

26.— Fish Tortilla. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, two table-spoonsful of tinned fish, 
two ounces of oil. 

Remove the bones from any pickled or tinned 

fish, and pull it into shreds ; beat the eggs 



EGG COOKERY. 



well, and stir in the fish ; season with pepper 
and a little cayenne ; melt the better in a saute 
pan, and pour in the mixture, shaking the pan 
to prevent burning ; fry a pale brown, turn 
with a plate, and fry the other side. 

37.— Potato Tortilla. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, one tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, 
three large potatoes, two ounces butter or oil. 

Cut cold potatoes, previously cooked, into 

slices, and sprinkle with the parsley. Put 

the butter or oil into a saute pan, and when it 

is boiling, fry the potatoes a light brown. Beat 

the eggs ; season them with pepper and salt, 

and pour into the potatoes ; shake the pan 

constantly to prevent sticking. When one 

side is brown, turn, the tortilla with a plate, 

and brown the other. Serve at once. 

28.— CEufs a I'Aile. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, one blade of garlic, two anchovies, 
half tea-spoonful of capers, two table-spoonsful of oil, one dessert- 
spoonful of vinegar. 

Boil the eggs hard, peel, and cut them into 
quarters. Bone and scale the anchovies, and 
pound them with the capers,- garlic, and a little 
pepper, to a paste. Mix in the oil and vinegar, 
and pour the sauce over the eggs. 



EGG COOKERY. 



29.— Onion Tortilla. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, one pound of Spanish onion, two 
ounces butter or oil. 

Beat the eggs well, and season them with salt 
and pepper. Melt the butter in a saute pan, 
and when very hot, slice and fry the onions in 
it. Pour the eggs into the pan, shake it well, 
and run a knife round the sides to prevent the 
tortilla sticking; brown very lightly on one 
side, turn it with a plate, and brown the 
other. 

30. — Onion and Tomato Tortilla. 

Ingredienis.^F'we fggs, three-quarters pound of tomatoes, 
quarter pound of onions, two ounces of butter. 

Beat the eggs well, and season with pepper 
and salt. Melt the butter in a saute pan, slice 
and fry the onions in it. Slice and stir in the 
tomatoes. Pour the eggs into the mixture, and 
fry the tortilla a very light brown ; turn it with 
a plate, and fry the other side. The pan must 
be well shaken, and a knife used round the 
sides to prevent sticking. 

31. — Poached Egg Salad. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, vinegar, mustard. 

Place a shallow pan filled with water on the 
fire ; add a tea-spoonful of vinegar, and when it 



EGG COOKERY. 23 

boils, break the eggs carefully in it ; keep them 
separate, and as soon as the whites are set, 
take them out and put them into cold water 
for five minutes. Drain and place them on a 
dish ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, and pour 
over them a sauce made with vinegar and 
mustard. Sorrel sauce may be used if pre- 
ferred. 

32. — Eggs with Burnt Vinegar. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, one gill of vinegar, two ounces of 
butter. 

Butter a dish, and break the eggs carefully 
into it, keeping them separate. Fry the butter 
in a stewpan, and when it is nearly boiling, 
skim and pour it over the eggs. Heat the 
vinegar thoroughly, and sprinkle it over the 
eggs. 

33. — Eggs Revueltos. 

Ingredients.— Sxx eggs, one tahle-spoonful of thick cream, or 
strong stock, one tea-cupful of peas. 

Boil the peas until they are tender. Break 

the eggs into a pan with the stock or cream ; 

season with salt, pepper, and a little sugar, and 

place it on the fire ; add the peas, and stir the 

mixture till it thickens. Serve with buttered 

toast. 



EGG COOKERY. 



34. — Eggs and Bacon. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, twelve slices of bacon. 
Cut the bacon very thin, and fry it until it is 
crisp ; take it out, and keep it hot in the oven. 
Break the eggs separately into the boiling fat, 
and fry them until they are brown. Serve with 
the eggs laid over the bacon, and small fried 
sippets of bread placed round. 

35. — Egg Salmagundi with Ham. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, one ounce of butter, one tea-cupful 
of cream, two slices of ham, one dessert-spoonful of strong 
gravy. 

Cut the ham into small dice, and fry in a 
stewpan : add the butter, and let it melt. Beat 
the eggs, and mix them well with the cream 
and gravy. Pour them into the butter, and 
stir over a gentle fire until the mixture 
thickens. Serve with croutons of fried bread. 

36. — Eggs Con Queso. 

Ingredients.— S\yi eggs, four ounces of grated cheese, three 
ounces of bread crumbs, one ounce of butter. 

Pound three ounces of the cheese with the 
bread crumbs. Melt the butter in a stewpan, 
and lay the mixture in it. Break the eggs 
carefully over, keeping them separate, and 
sprinkle with remainder of the cheese ; seagon 



EGG COOKERY. 25 

with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. 
Place the pan over a slow fire, shaking con- 
stantly, and when the eggs begin to set, slide 
the mixture on a hot dish, and brown with 
a salamander. 

37. — Egg 5almagundi with Lamb's 
Sweetbreads. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, two ounces butter, one tea-cupful of 
thick cream, one table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms one 
lamb's sweetbread. 

Melt the butter in a stewpan. Chop the 
sweetbreads, and fry them white with the 
mushrooms in the butter. Beat the eggs, mix 
with the cream, and pour them into the stew- 
pan. Stir over a gentle fire until the mixture 
thickens. Serve with croutons of fried bread. 

38. — Monster Egg. 

Ingredients.— Six eggs. 

Break the eggs, and separate the yolks care- 
fully from the whites. Beat the yolks, and 
pour them into a bottle sufficiently large just to 
hold them. Cork and suspend it in boiling 
water until they are set. Then break the bottle, 
taking care that no fragments of glass adhere 
to the egg. Take a larger bottle with a wide 
mouth, place the yolk in the centre, pour the 



26 EGG COOKERY. 

whites around it, and boil until they are set. 
Break away the bottle, and take out the egg, 
which can be served in a roll, or in slices, with 
a rich sauce. 

Note. — The risk in breaking the bottles may be avoided by 
the use of a specially designed appliance in metal, which can 
be obtained at the School of Cookery, Mortimer Street. 

39. — Eggs with Savoury Herbs. 

Ingredients.— Six eggs, one bunch of parsley, one blade of 
garlic, one pinch of saffron, one bunch of herbs, one spray of 
mint. 

Put some water, with a tea-spoonful of 
vinegar, into a shallow pan, and when it is 
boiling, break the eggs in carefully, keeping 
them separate and very round. When they 
are set, take them out with a thin slice. Fry 
the garlic, and put it in a pint of water in a 
stewpan with the saffron, parsley, mint, and 
herbs ; add a little salt and pepper, and boil for 
half an hour. Place the eggs in the liquid, 
and let them just boil. Drain them well, and 
serve on buttered toast. 

40. — Ham and Eggs. 

Ingredients.— Six egg<;, six slices of ham. 

Cut the ham into slices about a quarter of an 
inch thick, and fry or broil them. Have ready 
some boiling water in a pan. Break the eggs 



EGG COOKERY. 27 

carefully into the water, and poach until they 
are set. Serve with the eggs laid over the 
ham. 

41. — Fried Eggs with Tomatoes. 

Ingredients.— Six eggs, six tomatoes. 
Break the eggs carefully into a pan filled with 
boiling oil or butter, and fry them until the 
whites are crisp. Divide the tomatoes, and fry 
them lightly in the butter. Place them in a 
dish, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and lay the 
eggs over them. Serve very hot. 

42. — Beaten Eggs with Tomatoes. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, one pound of tonaatoes, two ounces 
of butter. 

Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the 
tomatoes sliced, season with salt and pepper, 
and stew until they are tender. Beat the eggs 
and stir them in. When the mixture has 
thickened, pour it upon hot buttered toast. It 
must be stirred the whole time. 

43. — Pisto. 

Ingredients.— Six eggs, two small Spanish onions, one small 
vegetable marrow, two ounces of butter. 

Chop the onions and fry them white in the 
butter, cut the vegetable marrow into thin 
slices, add it to the onions, and fry until very 



EGG COOKERY. 



tender. Beat the eggs, pour them over the 
vegetables, season with pepper and salt, and 
stir until the mixture thickens. Serve on 
buttered toast or on some slices of fried ham. 

44. — Eggs Escalfados. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, one ounce of butter, one table-spoon- 
ful of cream or milk. 

Butter a deep dish, sprinkle with salt, and 
break the eggs carefully into it, keeping each 
separate. Melt the remainder of the butter, 
and while it is hot stir it into the cream. Pour 
it over the eggs, cover closely, and bake in a 
moderate oven for ten minutes. 

45. — Baked Eggs. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, one tea-cupful of rich gravy, one tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley and mushrooms mixed, bread 
crumbs. 

Mix the parsley and mushrooms with part of 
the gravy, season with pepper and salt. Pour 
it in a pie dish and place it in the oven till it 
begins to bubble. Break the eggs carefully in, 
strew bread crumbs over, and return the dish 
to the oven for three minutes. Warm and 
pour in the rest of the gravy. Strew over a 
few more bread crumbs and bake until the eggs 
are set. 



EGG COOKERY. 29 

46. — Eggs a la Habanera. 

Ingredients. — Eight eggs, two ounces of butter, half blade of 
garlic, two small Spanish onions, six tomatoes, half tea-cupful 
of bread crumbs, half-pint of stock. 

Boil the eggs for ten minutes, and cut them 
into sHces, chop the garlic, onions, and 
tomatoes, season with pepper and salt, and fry 
them with the crumbs in the butter. Add the 
stock and stir for ten minutes after it boils. 
Place the slices of eggs in the liquid, and warm 
them through. 

47. — Eggs and Tomato 5auce. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, one tea-cupful of tomato sauce, one 
ounce of butter. 

Melt the butter in a deep dish, break the eggs 

carefully in, and place on a stove until they 

begin to set. Warm and pour the sauce over 

them. 

48. — Eggs a la Cubano. 

Ingredients.— -Tvielve eggs, two Spanish onions, one dessert- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, half blade of garlic, three ounces 
of butter, half tea-cupful of bread crumbs. 

Chop the onions and garlic, and mix well 
with the crumbs, parsley, and butter. Boil 
eight eggs for ten minutes, take off the 
shells, and pound the yolks with these 
ingredients. Butter a baking tin, cover it 



30 EGG COOKERY. 

with the mixture, and bake in a moderate 
oven for half an hour. Poach the remaining 
eggs and lay them on the top, and sprinkle 
with pepper and salt. Cover the tin and bake 
for fifteen minutes. 

49. — Eggs Poached with Vegetables. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, one large cupful of peas or beans, 
one quarter of an onion, one ounce of butter, one large cupful 
of cream or stock. 

Slice the onion and boil it with the other 
vegetables in the stock or cream. Mix the 
butter into them and pulp the whole through 
a sieve. It should have the consistency of a 
good custard. Pour it over some fried sippets 
and keep hot. Poach the eggs and place them 
on the top. 

50. — Curried Eggs. 

Ingredients. — Eight eggs, three-quarter pint of milk, one 
large Spanish onion, one tea-spoonful of sugar, one table-spoon- 
ful of curry powder, one table-spoonful of flour, two ounces of 
butter, one lemon. 

Boil the eggs for ten minutes, throw them into 
cold water and take off the shells. Cut off the 
ends to allow them to stand. Slice the onion 
and fry it white in the butter. Mix the flour 
and curry powder smoothly in a little of the 
milk, then boil them with the remainder, the 



EGG COOKERY. 31 

onion, juice of the lemon, sugar, and a little 
salt and pepper, for two hours. Strain it 
through a sieve. Dress the eggs on a dish, 
pour the gravy round them and serve with a 
wall of boiled rice. 

51.— Egg Fritters. 

Ingredients. — Three eggs, two ounces of cheese, one ounce 
of butter, one gill of milk, one table-spoonful of flour, parsley. 

Mix the flour and butter, and boil in the milk, 
stirring it till it thickens. Let it cool a little, 
and beat in the eggs. Grate and stir the cheese 
into them, and season with salt, pepper, and a 
little mustard. Drop the mixture by spoonsful 
into boiling oil, and fry a light brown. Throw 
the parsley into the boiling oil and fry until it 
is crisp ; drain it on porous paper, and serve 
with the fritters. 

52. — Savoury Egg Cream. 

Ingredients. — •Four eggs, quarter pound of butter, half pound 
of cheese, one small French roll, half pint of milk. 

Break the eggs carefully, and separate the 
yolks from the whites. Grate the cheese, and 
beat it with the butter and the yolks of the eggs 
until smooth. Soak the inside of the roll in 
milk, and beat it into the eggs. Whip the 
whites and stir into the mixture; warm and 



32 EGG COOKERY. 



stir over the fire until nearly boiling. Pour it 
over boiled macaroni, celery, or cauliflower, and 
serve. 

53.— Poached Eggs with Asparagus. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, one bundle of asparagus, two 
ounces of Parmesan cheese, one ounce of butter. 

Boil the asparagus, drain it well, and lay it on 
a hot dish. Put some water in a shallow pan, 
with a tea-spoonful of vinegar in it, and when 
it boils, break the eggs into cups and turn them 
carefully into the water, and boil until they are 
set. Dress them over the asparagus, melt the 
butter and pour round ; grate the cheese, 
sprinkle it over the eggs and serve. 

54. — Savoury Egg Rissoles. 

Ingredients. — Five eggs, three ounces Parmesan cheese, one 
ounce English cheese. 

Break the eggs carefully into basins, separat- 
ing the yolks from the whites, and beat the 
whites to a stiff froth. Add the cheese, season 
with mustard, cayenne pepper, and a little salt, 
and mix all well together. Flour the hands ; 
form the mixture into small balls, and fry in 
plenty of boiling fat or oil until they are a pale 
brown colour. Serve with fried parsley. 



EGG COOKERY. 33 

55. — Savoury Egg Cream Baked. 

Ingredients. — Three eggs, three ounces of cheese, quarter 
pint of cream or milk. 

Break the eggs into basins, separating the 
yolks from the whites, and whip the latter to a 
stiff froth. Grate the cheese, mix it with the 
cream, and season with a little mustard, pepper, 
and salt. Beat the yolks, and stir all the ingre- 
dients together, adding the whites last. Bake 
in a buttered tin in a sharp oven for fifteen 
minutes. 

56. — Hard Eggs with Tomato Sauce. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, half pint of tomato sauce. 
Boil the eggs for ten minutes, and cut them 
into slices. Warm the tomato sauce, and pour 
it over them. Serve with sippets of fried bread 
placed round the dish. 

57. — Eggs sur le plat. 

Ingredients.-^YA^\. eggs, one ounce of butter. 
Spread the butter over the bottom of a 
shallow dish, and place it in the oven. When 
the butter is melted, break the eggs carefully 
into it, keeping them separate, and bake in a 
slow oven until they are set. Serve with 
fingers of buttered toast placed round, 
c 



34 EGG COOKERY. 

58. — Eggs a la Gitana. 

Ingredients. — Eight eggs, two onions, one dessert-spoonful ot 
flour, two ounces of butter, one pill o( stock. 

Boil the eggs for ten minutes, throw them 
into cold water, and take off the shells ; cut 
them into large dice. Slice the onions very thin, 
and fry them in the butter. Mix the flour in the 
stock, add to the onions, and stir until it boils. 
Put the eggs into the sauce, and warm them 
through. Serve with croutons of fried bread. 

59. — Eggs and Cream with Mushrooms. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, half pint of cream, half pound of 
mushrooms, one ounce of butter. 

Boil the cream until it is reduced to half, 
then pour it into a dish. Break the eggs care- 
fully and separately in it, and place in a 
moderate oven. When the eggs are set, 
sprinkle with pepper and salt, and pass a sala- 
mander over them. Fry the mushrooms in the 
butter, season with pepper and salt, and dress 
them round the eggs. 

60.— Eggs and Cream. 

Ingredients. — ■ Six eggs, one pint of cream. 

Boil the cream until it is reduced to half, 
then pour it into a deep dish. Break the eggs 
carefully in it, keeping them separate : sprinkle 



EGG COOKERY. 35 



with pepper and salt, and when they are set, 
pass a salamander over and serve with croutons 
of fried bread. 

61. — Egg Cutlets. 

Ingredients.^ Eight eggs, one tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, 
three-quarters of a pint of rich gravy, two ounces of butter, 
bread crumbs, lemon juice. 

Boil seven of the eggs for ten minutes, take 
off the shells, and cut them into slices. Mix 
the parsley with finely sifted bread crumbs, 
pepper, and salt. Beat the yolk of the remain- 
ing egg, dip the slices of egg in it, and roll 
them in the bread crumbs. Melt the butter in 
a saute pan ; fry the fritters a pale brown and 
dress them on a dish. Heat the gravy, add a 
little lemon juice, season with salt, pepper, and 
a pinch of sugar ; pour it round the eggs and 
serve hot. 

62. — Eggs au Gratin with Anchovies. 

Ingredienis.-^Tem eggs, one tea -cupful of bread crumbs, one 
ounce of butter, one anchovy, one bunch of parsley, four small 
green onions, one shalot, half tea-cupful of cream, vinegar. 

Chop the anchovy, parsley, onions, and 
shalot, and mix them well with the bread 
crumbs and butter ; season with pepper and 
salt. Lay the mixture in a tin dish, and nearly 
cook it in the oven. Sprinkle with a very 



3b EGG COOKERY. 

little vinegar, and pour the cream into it. 
Break the eggs carefully over the cream, keep- 
ing them separate. Place the dish again in the 
oven, and serve when the eggs are set. 

63.— Eggs with Caper Sauce. 

Ingrediinis.^-'Nme eggs, three ounces of butter, bread 
crumbs, one tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, half pint of milk, 
one dessert-spoonful of flour, one table-spoonful of capers. 

Boil seven eggs for ten minutes, take off their 
shells, and cut them into slices. Mix the parsley 
with finely sifted bread crumbs, pepper, and 
salt. Beat the yolk of one of the remaining eggs, 
dip the slices of egg in it, and roll them in the 
crumbs. Melt two ounces of the butter in a 
saute pan, fry them a pale brown, and dress 
them on a dish. Place them in a cool oven to 
keep warm. Mix the flour very smoothly in a 
little milk, and stir it into the remainder. 
Chop part of the capers, and add them with 
the whole ones, and one ounce of butter to the 
milk ; season with salt and pepper and stir over 
the fire until it boils. Beat the yolk of the 
remaining egg in a basin, and when the sauce 
is boiling, add it to the egg, and beat all well 
together with a fork. Pour it round the eggs 
and serve. 



EGG COO'KEkY. 37 

64. — Egg Cutlets with Tomato Sauce. 

Ingredients. — Nine eggs, three ounces of butter, bread 
crumbs, one dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, one quarter 
pint of milk, one dessert-spoonful of flour, quarter pint of thick 
tomato pulp. 

Boil seven of the eggs for ten minutes, and 
proceed as in No. 63 ; make a sauce as in No. 
63, but use tomato pulp instead of capers. 

65. — Eggs sur le plat with Anchovies. 

Ingredients.^Six. eggs, two small anchovies, one small 
bunch of parsley, one small shalot, one ounce of butter, one 
salt-spoonful of capers. 

Melt the butter in a deep dish in the oven, 
and break in three eggs carefully and separately ; 
mince the anchovies, parsley, shalot, and 
capers ; beat the yolks of the remaining eggs 
and mix all well together ; season with a little 
nutmeg, pepper and salt ; beat the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth and stir into the mix- 
ture ; pour it over the eggs and bake in a brisk 
oven for fifteen minutes. 

66. — Eggs piquant with Mushrooms. 

Ingredients. — Eight eggs, three ounces of butter, bread 
crumbs, one tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, three-quarters of a 
pint of rich gravy, lemon juice. 

Boil seven of the eggs hard, take oif the 
shells, and cut them into slices. Mix the parsley 
with sifted bread crumbs, pepper and salt. 



38 EGG COOKERY. 

Beat the yolk of the remaining t.g%, dip in it 
the slices of egg, and roll them in the bread 
crumbs. Melt two ounces of the butter in a 
saute pan, and fry them a pale brown. Fry the 
mushrooms in the remainder of the butter, dress 
them in the centre of a dish, and place the eggs 
round. Sprinkle with lemon juice and keep 
them hot. Warm the gravy, pour it round the 
eggs and serve. 

67.— Egg Sandwiches. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, bread butter. 

Boil the eggs for ten minutes, throw them 
into cold water, take off the shells and cut them 
into slices ; prepare thin slices of bread and 
butter ; place the eggs between ; season with 
salt, pepper, and a little dry mustard ; trim and 
cut the sandwiches. 

68. — Eggs with Anchovy Toast. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, four anchovies, one salt-spoonful ol 
curry powder, two ounces of butter. 

Boil three eggs for ten minutes, throw them 
into cold water, take off the shells and cut them 
into slices ; soak the anchovies for five minutes, 
bone, skin, and pound them to a paste with one 
ounce of the butter, the yolk of the remaining 
&%%, and the curry powder ; stir the mixture in 



EGG COOKERY. 39 

a saucepan over the fire till very hot ; fry some 
squares of bread in the remainder of the butter, 
spread with the hot mixture and cover with the 
slices of egg ; re-warm them in front of the fire. 

69. — Aspic of Eggs. 

Ingredients. — Eight eggs, one ounce of gelatine, one pint of 
water, half a carrot, half a turnip, one blade of celery, one 
small onion, one bayleaf, one sprig of parsley, one small bunch 
of dried herbs, one gill of tarragon vinegar, one glass of white 
wine, eight peppercorns, one table-spoonful of capers, one salt- 
spoonful of cloves, one blade of mace. 

Boil the eggs for ten minutes, take off the 
shells and cut five of them into slices ; chop the 
white of two of the remaining eggs and rub the 
yolks through a sieve ; slice the vegetables and 
put them with the gelatine previously dissolved, 
herbs, spices, parsley, bayleaf, white and shell 
of one egg, and some salt, into a porcelain-lined 
saucepan ; add the wine, water and vinegar ; 
beat it over the fire till a scum rises and let it 
boil for a few minutes ; set it aside for half an 
hour, then strain it through a jelly bag until it 
is quite clear ; stand a mould in cold water for 
ten minutes, take it out and fix on some wet 
salt ; pour the jelly into the mould about half 
an inch thick and let it set ; then place in some 
little tufts of the chopped white and of the yolk 



40 EGG COOKERY. 

that has been passed through the sieve, and fill 
up the spaces with some of the slices ; sprinkle 
in a few capers; pour in some more cooled jelly 
and let it set again ; fill the mould in layers in 
this manner ; before turning out the aspic dip 
the mould in warm water for a second. 

70. — Eggs in Cases. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, one ounce of butter, one bunch of 
parsley, one table-spoonful of bread crumbs, two spring onions, 
two mushrooms. 

Chop the parsley, onions, and mushrooms, 
and mix them with the crumbs and butter, 
season with pepper and salt ; butter the cases 
and partly fill them with the mixture ; set them 
in the oven for four minutes ; break an egg into 
each, place them on a dish and put them again 
into the oven for five minutes, or until the eggs 
are set. Serve very hot. 

71. — CEufs au Miroir a la Moderne. 

Ingredients.—Six eggs, one ounce of butter, three table- 
spoonsful of grated Parmesan cheese. 

Spread the butter on a dish, place it in the 
oven, and when it is melted break the eggs into 
it carefully, keeping each separate. Sprinkle 
with the cheese, and season with pepper. Serve 
with fingers of buttered toast laid round the dish. 



EGG COOKERY. 41 

72. — Eggs in Cases au Gratin. 

Ingredients.-^ Six eggs, one ounce of butter, parsley, bread 
crumbs. 

Cover the inside of six paper cases with 
warmed butter, and powder with pepper and 
salt. Break an egg into each, and cover lightly 
with finely sifted bread crumbs. Place a small 
piece of butter on each, and bake in a moderate 
oven for four minutes. Pass a salamander over 
to brown the crumbs, and serve with fried 
parsley. 

73. — (Eufs sur le plat aux Asperges. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, one large cupful of asparagus tops, 
one ounce of butter, one tea-spoonful of flour, one dessert-spoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, one chopped green onion. 

Blanch the asparagus a few moments in boil- 
ing water, drain and place them in a stewpan 
over the fire with part of the onion, butter, and 
parsley; stir until the butter is well melted, 
season with salt, pepper, and a very little sugar. 
Mix into them a tea-spoonful of flour ; moisten 
with a little water, and stir all together until 
the asparagus is tender. Lay the mixture 
round a dish, spread the remainder of the 
butter in the centre of the dish, break into it 
the eggs, and bake in the oven until they are 
set, which will take about seven minutes. 



42 EGG COOKERY. 

74. — (Eufs au Miroir. 

Ingredients. — .Six eggs, six slices of thin ham, one ounce of 
butter. 

Spread the butter on a dish, place it in the 
oven, and when the butter is melted break the 
eggs carefully and separately over. Bake in a 
moderate oven until the eggs begin to set. Fry 
the slices of ham, cut them into thin strips, lay 
over the eggs, and leave in the oven for four 
minutes. Sprinkle with pepper and serve. 

75.— Nest Eggs. 
Ingredients. — Six eggs, half tea-cupful of chopped parsley, 
two ounces of butter, one tea-spoonful of chopped marjoram, 
one lemon, nutmeg, watercress or mustard and cress, beetroot, 
bread crumbs. 

Boil four eggs for ten minutes, throw them 
into cold water and take off the. shells. Put a 
tea-cupful of sifted bread crumbs into a basin 
with part of the parsley. Pare the lemon very 
thin and chop the peel. Add the marjoram, 
lemon peel, a table-spoonful of lemon juice, 
cayenne, and a little nutmeg to the bread 
crumbs. Melt the butter, and pour it with one 
egg into the mixture, and work it to a paste. 
Flatten a fourth part of it in the hand and 
cover one egg evenly. Proceed in the same 
manner with each. Roll them in egg and 



EGG COOKER!. 43 

bread crumbs, leave for ten minutes, and egg 
and bread crumb them a second time. Fry a 
light brown in boiling butter or oil ; cut them 
in halves, and let them get cold. Chop four 
slices of boiled beetroot, and place a little tuft on 
each. Dress them in a bed of cress, or mustard 
and cress. 

76.^CEufs a la Bechamel. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, two ounces of butter, one onion, one 
carrot, one bunch of parsley, two large mushrooms, half pint of 
milk. 

Melt one ounce of butter in a stewpan, cut 
the onion, carrot, and mushrooms into thin 
slices and fry them white with the parsley in 
the butter. Boil the milk, stir it gradually into 
the vegetables, and boil all together. Season 
with salt, pepper, and mustard, let it simmer 
very gently for three quarters of an hour, and 
then strain itl Melt the remainder of the 
butter in a frying pan, and mix in two table- 
spoonsful of flour until it is thoroughly incor- 
porated, but not brown. Pour the sauce over, 
and let it boil for three minutes, stirring the 
whole time. Boil the eggs for ten minutes, 
take off the shells, and cut them into slices; 
warm them in the sauce and serve very hot. 



44 SGG COOKERY. 

77. — Eggs with a Puree of Sorrel. 

Ingredients. — Nine eggs, one tea-cupful of chopped sorrel, 
one tea-cupful of chopped white beetroot, one gill of milk, one 
tea-cupful of chopped lettuce, one tea-cupful of chopped chervil, 
one tea-cupful of chopped spinach, two ounces of butter, one 
tea-spoonful of flour. 

Throw the vegetables into boiling water for a 
few minutes, then into cold, and afterwards 
drain them. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and 
add the vegetables with a tea-spoonful of flour, 
moisten with the milk, stir all well together, 
and let it simmer for half an hour. Boil six 
eggs for five minutes, throw them into cold 
water, and remove the shells. Stir the yolks of 
the remaining eggs into the puree, but do not 
let it boil after they are added. Place the 
mixture in a dish, dress the eggs over it, and 
serve. 

78. — Eggs au Vergus. 

Ingredients. — Ten eggs, half ounce of butter, one tea-spoonful 
of flour, one gill of rich gravy, half tea-spoonful of verjuice or 
juice of sour grapes. 

Melt a tea-spoonful of dripping in a stewpan ; 
mix the butter and flour, and stir with it until 
it begins to colour, add the gravy, and thicken 
altogether. Beat the eggs well with the ver- 
juice, and stir into the sauce until they thicken. 
Serve on buttered toast. 



EGG COOKERY. 45 

79. — CEufs en Matelote. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, one scant tumbler of red wine, one 
scant tumbler of stock, one onion, half clove of garlic, one 
bunch of herbs, three cloves, six whole peppers, one ounce of 
butter. 

Put the wine and stock into a stewpan, with 
the herbs, onion, and garlic. Add the spices 
and a Uttle salt ; boil all together for ten 
minutes, and take out the flavouring. Poach 
the eggs carefully and separately in the liquor, 
and dress them on fried bread. Reduce the 
liquor over the fire to half a pint, mix the 
butter with one dessert-spoonful of flour, and 
thicken the gravy. Pour it over the eggs and 
serve very hot. 

80. — (Eufs au Petits Pois. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, one pint of peas, half pint of 
stock, half a tea-cupful of bread, two ounces of butter. 

Boil the peas in the stock until they are 
tender : cut the bread into small dice and fry 
a light brown ; add them to the stock and peas, 
season with salt and pepper ; break the eggs 
carefully over the mixture ; cover the saucepan 
closely, place some hot coals on the lid and let 
them simmer over a slow fire until they are set; 
slide the mixture carefully on to a dish and 
serve hot. 



46 EGG COOKERY. 

8 1. —Fried Eggs with Ragout of Mushrooms. 

Ingredients. — Eight eggs, one pound of mushrooms, one 
ounce of butter, one tea-spoonful of \inegar, one bunch of 
parsley, two green onions. 

Skin the mushrooms, and if they are very 
large cut them into shces. Chop the onions 
and parsley very fine ; melt part of the butter 
in a stewpan, and add the parsley, onion, and 
vinegar, a little nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a 
very little sugar. Break two of the eggs, and 
moisten the yolks with a table-spoonful of cold 
water, add the rest of the butter, and stir them 
into the onion and parsley. Add the mush- 
rooms gradually, and stew gently for ten 
minutes ; place the ragout on a dish, and 
keep it warm. Fry the remaining eggs in hot 
butter or fat, dress them over the ragout, and 
serve. 

82. — (Eufs au Vin du Rhin. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, one bunch of parsley, two green 
onions, hall a shalot, one gill of white wine, half ounce of 
butter, one tea-spoonful of flour. 

Chop the parsley, onions, and shalot very 
fine, and put them in a stewpan with the wine. 
Mix the butter with a tea-spoonful of flour, 
thicken the sauce, and let it boil for half an 
hour ; boil the eggs for five minutes, throw 
them into cold water, and take off the shells ; 



EGG COOKERY 47 

dress them on a dish, and pour the sauce over 
them. Powder with very fine bread crumbs 
and serve hot. 

83. — (Eufs en Caisse a la Parmesan. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, one ounce of butter, half tea-spoonful 
of dried herbs, quarter tea-cupful of grated Parmesan. 

Divide the butter into six parts, and put one 
into each case, powder well with the herbs, and 
warm them in the oven. Break an egg care- 
fully into each, season with pepper and salt, 
and cover with the Parmesan cheese. Bake 
them in a moderate oven for five minutes. 
Pass a salamander over and serve. 

84. — CBufs a la Campagne. 

Zngredimts.—Foar eggs, two onions, one ounce of butter, 
one tea-spoonful of flour, one large cupful of cream, and salt- 
spoonful of castor sugar. 

Slice and fry the onions very gently but 
thoroughly in the butter, but do not let them 
brown ; mix the flour very smoothly into the 
cream and stir into the onions, season with the 
sugar and a little salt ; let them simmer for ten 
minutes, stirring the whole time, then turn the 
mixture on a dish ; boil the eggs for ten minutes 
and take off the shells ; cut into quarters and 
dress them over ragout. Serve very hot. 



48 EGG COOKERY. 

85. — Eggs in Hominy Cases. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, one large cupful of hominy, two 
ounces of butter. 

Soak the hominy for twelve hours in one 
quart of water, pour both into a stewpan with 
a Httle salt, and let the hominy simmer very 
gently for one hour, stirring frequently to pre- 
vent burning ; beat into it one ounce of the 
butter; spread the mixture about three-quarters 
of an inch thick on a buttered tin and smooth 
it with a knife dipped into hot water ; set it 
aside for half an hour to get firm ; dip a cutter 
about three inches in diameter into hot water 
and cut out six rounds from the paste ; stamp 
out the centres with a cutter a few sizes 
smaller, place the rings carefully on a buttered 
dish and break an egg into each ; put a small 
piece of butter on the top of every egg, sprinkle 
with pepper and salt and bake in a good oven 
for five minutes. 

86.— (Eufs a la d'Orleans. 

Ingredients.— Sii-x. eggs, one bunch of parsley, two green 
onions, half tea-cupful of thick cream. 

Break the yolks of the eggs into separate 
cups ; chop the parsley and onion very fine, 
add to the whites and season with pepper and 



JEGG COOKERY. 49 



salt ; beat them to a stiff froth, turn them on a 
deep tin dish and pour the cream over ; place 
the yolks unbroken at equal distances on the 
mixture, and bake it at once in a moderate oven 
for five minutes. Serve very hot. 

87.— Fricassee d'CEufs. 

Ingredients. — Eight eggs, three ounces of butter, three- 
quarters a pint of miik, one tea-cupful of fish stock or broth, 
two ounces grated cheese, one tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, 
one salt-spoonful of chopped thyme, one lemon, one slice of 
crumb of bread. 

Boil the crumb in the stock and part of the 

milk until it forms a paste, then drain it. Beat 

six eggs, add the cheese and mix all together, 

season with a little spice, salt and pepper, and 

beat well. Melt two ounces of butter in an 

omelette pan and pour in the mixture. Make 

an omelette and cut it into large dice. Mix one 

ounce of butter with one dessert-spoonful of flour, 

the parsley and thyme, salt, pepper, and a little 

spice. Grate the peel of the lemon and add it 

with the juice to these ingredients. Pour in the 

remainder of the milk, and boil altogether for a 

minute, stirring well. Beat two eggs and add 

them to the sauce, stir until it is warmed 

through, but do not let it boil. Pour it over 

the dice and serve. 



50 EGG COOKERY. 

88.— Filet d'CEufs. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, two small onions, half a pound of 
mushrooms, one point of garlic, one gill of white wine, one gill 
of stock or gravy, two ounces of butter. 

Boil the eggs for ten minutes, throw them 
into cold water and take off the shells ; take out 
the yolks and cut the whites into neat fillets ; 
slice the mushrooms and mince the onions and 
garlic, melt the butter in a stewpan, fry the 
vegetables in it until they begin to colour and 
stir in a tea-spoonful of flour ; pour in the stock 
and wine, season with pepper and salt and boil 
for half an hour, until it is reduced to the con- 
sistency of a sauce ; add the whites and 
unbroken yolks of the eggs and let them boil a 
moment. Serve very hot. 

89. — CEufs en Croute de Fromage. 

Ingredients. — Ten eggs, three ounces cheese, one ounce 
bread crumbs, two ounces butter. 

Grate the cheese and mix one ounce with the 
bread crumbs, butter, a little spice, salt, pepper, 
and the yolks of two of the eggs. Spread the 
mixture over a dish and bake in a moderate oven 
for a quarter of an hour, break the remaining 
eggs carefully over, cover with the cheese and 
return it to the oven for four minutes. Pass a 
salamander over and serve. 



EGG COOKERY. s ■ 

90. — (Eufs au Fromage Anglais. 

Ingredients. — Six e?gs, two ounces grated cheese, one ounce 
of butter, one bunch of parsley, two green onions, one gill of 
white wine. 

Chop the vegetables and put them into a stew- 
pan with the butter and cheese, a Httle nutmeg 
and the wine ; let them boil over a gentle fire, 
stirring all the while until the cheese is melted ; 
beat and add the eggs and stir over the fire 
until they thicken. Serve with fried bread. 

91. — Little Eggs. 

Ingredients. — Ten eggs, one ounce of butter, one tea-spoonful 
of vinegar, one salt-spoonful of sugar, two table-spoonsful of 
cream, one dessert-spoonful of flour. 

Boil six of the eggs for ten minutes, throw 
them into cold water, shell them and take out 
the yolks ; mix them in a basin with three raw 
yolks, salt and pepper. Turn the mixture on 
to a board well covered with flour, and roll into 
the shape of thin sausages ; cut them into equal 
parts, and form them in the hands into little 
eggs. Throw them into boiling water for three 
minutes, drain and serve with the following 
sauce : — Mix the flour smoothly in half a tea- 
cupful of water ; add the butter, cream, vinegar, 
salt, pepper, sugar, and a little nutmeg, and stir 
it over the fire until it boils. Thicken with the 



5 2 EGG COOKERY 

yolk of an egg, but do not let it boil after it is 
added. Pour the sauce over the little eggs, and 
serve. 

92. — Talmouses de St. Denis. 

Ingredients.— Vivt eggs, eight ounces butter, three-quarters 
pound white cheese, six ounces Fromage de Brie, half ounce 
sugar, flour. 

Grate the cheese and mix well with six 

ounces of butter, put a scant half pint of water 

into a saucepan with the sugar and the rest 01 

the butter, and let it nearly boil. Take it from 

the fire, and stir in gradually enough flour to 

form a stiff paste that will clear the sides of the 

pan ; this will take a few minutes, then mix in 

the cheese, drop in one egg and stir briskly 

until thoroughly incorporated ; repeat this 

until it becomes a pliable but rather stiff paste ; 

three or four eggs will be sufficient. Beat the 

white of one egg to a hard froth and stir it in, 

flour a pasteboard and form the mixture into 

little eggs. Lay them upon a buttered dish 

and brown slightly with a salamander, or in 

front of the fire. Place on each a very thin 

slice of cheese and bake in a gentle oven till 

they are a golden brown. They can be opened 

and beaten cream put between and some laid 

over them. 



EGG COOKERY. 53 

93. — Kluskis des (Eufs. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, half pound of butter, six table- 
spoonsful of cream cheese, half tea-spoonful of sugar, one slice 
of crumb of bread, half tea-cupful of cream. 

Mix all the ingredients well together, season 

with a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt ; form the 

mixture into little balls, throw them into salted 

boiling water, and let them boil until they are 

set. Drain and colour them with browned 

butter. 

94. — Savoury Eggs Guisados. 

Ingredients. — Eight eggs, half tea-cupful of strong gravy, one 
gill of cream, two ounces of butter, half tea-cupful of bread 
crumbs. 

Boil seven of the eggs hard, take off the 
shells, and divide them lengthways. Soak part 
of the crumbs in the cream, and pound with the 
yolks of the eggs one ounce of butter, salt, 
pepper, and the raw yolk of the remaining egg. 
Fill the whites with the mixture ; mix the 
remainder of the bread crumbs with one ounce 
of butter, and cover the eggs ; moisten what 
remains of the mixture with the gravy, and let 
it boil, stirring the whole time. Turn it on a 
dish, and place the eggs over it ; brown them 
,with a salamander or in front of the fire. The 
eggs can be filled with fish, in which case use 
oil instead of cream. 



54 EGG COOKERY. 

95.— (Eufs en Fils. 

Ingredients. — Three eggs, one ounce of butter, half pint of 
rich brown gravy, lemon juice, one tomato, flour. 

Break the eggs into a basin with a Httle salt, 
and work into them gradually enough flour to 
form a stiff paste ; divide it into two parts and 
spread it with the hand about a quarter of an 
inch thick on a clean cloth. Leave it for two 
hours, then roll tightly and cut into thin slices ; 
throw it into salted boiling water, boil for ten 
minutes, stirring the water with a fork, and 
drain it well. Boil the tomato in the gravy 
with the butter and a squeeze of lemon for half 
an hour, then strain it. Warm the mixture in 
the gravy and serve. 

96. — Savoury Eggs. 

Ingredients. — Eight eggs, half tea-cupful of broken bread, 
wo ounces of butter, one dessert-fpoonful of chopped parsley 
and onion mixed, a pinch of herbs, one tea-cupful of milk. 

Boil six of the eggs hard, and cut them in 
halves lengthways ; take out the yolks and mix 
them with the bread previously soaked in milk 
and squeezed dry, the butter, parsley, onion, 
herbs, pepper, and salt. Pound all together^ 
moisten with the yolks of the two remaining 
eggs, and fill the boiled whites with part of the 



EGG COOKERY. 55 

mixture ; spread the rest on a dish, and arrange 
the filled eggs over it. Warm in the oven, and 
pass a salamander over. 

97.— Savoury Eggs with Anchovies. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, six anchovies, two ounces of butter. 
Boil the eggs for ten minutes, throw them 
into cold water and take off the shells ; cut 
them in halves lengthways ; bone, scale, and 
chop the anchovies, and pound them with the 
yolks of the eggs ; warm the butter, and stir 
the mixture into it, over the fire, until hot 
through. Fill the eggs, and serve with or with- 
out sauce. 

98.— Savoury Eggs a la Cubano. 

Ingredients. — Nine eggs, one tea-spoonful of bread crumbs, 
quarter blade of garlic, one dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, 
two ounces of butter or oil, one tea-spoonful of flour, one gill of 
cream, lemon juice. 

Boil eight eggs for ten minutes, take off the 
shells, and cut them in halves lengthways; 
pound the garlic, and mix with the bread 
crumbs, parsley, the yolks of the eggs, and a 
Httle lemon juice. Season with salt, pepper, 
and a pinch of spice ; fill the whites with the 
mixture, and join the halves together again. 
Bind them with tape or cotton, and fry in part 



56 EGG COOKERY. 

of the butter; make the following sauce, and 
pour over them. Mix the flour smoothly in 
half a gill of water ; add the rest of the butter, 
cream, and one tea-spoonful of lemon juice, salt, 
pepper, and a very little sugar ; stir it over the 
fire until it thickens. Thicken with the yolk 
of an egg, but do not let it boil after it is added, 

99. — Savoury Curry Eggs. 

Ingredients. — Eight eggs, one tea-spoonful of curry powder, 
one slice of ham. 

Boil the eggs for ten minutes, take off the 

shells, and cut them in halves lengthways ; fry 

the ham and mince it very fine, beat the yolks 

of the eggs with the curry powder and ham to 

a cream, pile the mixture in the whites of the 

eggs, and stand them on a bed of watercress. 

100. — Eggs Farcies aux Anchois. 

Ingredients. — Eight eggs, eight anchovies, half pint of milk, 
one dessert-spoonful of flour, two ounces of butter, one table- 
spoonful of cream. 

Boil the eggs for ten minutes, take off the 
shells, and divide them in halves lengthways ; 
bone and skin the anchovies and pound them 
with the yolks of the eggs, the cream, one ounce 
of butter, pepper, and salt ; warm the mixture 
carefully over the fire for ten minutes, stirring 



EGG COOKERY. 57 

the whole time, and fill the eggs with it ; make 
a sauce with the milk, flour, and the remainder 
of the butter. Add the rest of the mixture, 
and stir over the fire until it boils. Dress the 
eggs on a dish and pour the sauce round them. 

loi. — Savoury Eggs a la Habanera. 

Zngredients.-^'Nine eggs, one tea-cupful of bread crumbs, 
half gill of thick cream, one ounce of butter, half gill of good 
broth or stock. 

Boil eight eggs for ten minutes and take off 
their shells ; cut them in halves lengthways and 
take out the yolks ; soak part of the crumbs in 
the cream, and pound with the yolks a little 
pepper and salt, and fill the whites of the eggs. 
Join them together again, and secure them with 
cotton ; beat the remaining egg, mix with the 
rest of the crumbs and the butter, and cover 
the eggs ; stir what is left of the mixture into 
the stock, and let it boil up. Place the eggs 
carefully in, warm them through, and serve all 
together. 

102. — Eggs Farcies au Persil. 

Ingredients. — Eight eggs, one table-spoonful of chopped 
parsley, half pint of milk, one dessert-spoonful of fiour, two 
ounces of butter, one table-spoonful of cream. 

Proceed as in No. 66, but use parsley instead 
of anchovies. 



S8 EGG COOKERY. 

103. — Eggs a la Nieve. 

Ingredients.— Six eggs, one and a half pints of milk, six 
ounces of crushed sugar, half lemon or two laurel leaves. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs well ; boil one 
pint of the milk with five ounces of the sugar 
and the peel of the lemon or laurel leaves until 
the flavour is extracted from them ; let it cool a 
little and take out the flavouring; add the 
yolks, and stir over the fire till the custard 
thickens. Whisk the whites to a hard froth 
that will clear the basin ; boil the remaining 
half pint of milk, and drop the beaten whites 
by spoonsful in it ; keep them well separated, 
and then set on one side, turn them to set the 
other. Pour the custard into a dish, and dress 
the balls of white over it. 

104. — Eggs Espirituales. 

Ingredients.' — Two eggs, half pint of wine or one gill of 
brandy, one ounce of sugar, half salt-spoonful of powdered 
cinnamon. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs well in a large 

cup, make the wine or spirit very hot and beat 

it very gradually into the eggs ; add the sugar 

and cinnamon and beat all together again ; 

when the cup is filled with froth it is ready to 

drink. If brandy should be used a little hot 

water can be added. 



EGG COOKERY. 59 

105. — Egg Salmagundi. 

Ingredients.— YoMX eggs, two ounces of butter, one tea-cupful 
of cream, two ounces of sifted sugar, one lemon. 

Beat the eggs well, mix them with the sugar, 

cream, and juice of the lemon ; melt the butter 

and pour in the mixture, stir until it thickens. 

Serve with fingers of Milan pastry or of bread 

fried in butter. 

106. — Egg Salmagundi witli Preserve. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, two ounces of butter, one tea-cupful 
of cream, half a lemon, half a tea-cupful of apricot or other 
preserve. 

Beat the eggs well and mix them with the 
cream, preserve, and a few drops of lemon 
juice ; melt the butter in a saute pan and pour 
in the mixture ; stir until it thickens. Serve 
with finger cakes or fingers of bread fried in 
butter. 

107. — Eggs con Leche. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, two ounces of sugar, one quart milk, 
orange flower water or lemon peel. 

Beat the eggs and pour them into a deep 
dish in which they will be served, mix in the 
sugar, milk, and flavouring ; place the dish in a 
large pan of boiling water and let it simmer for 
three-quarters of an hour, sprinkle with sugar ; 
pass a salamander over and serve. 



6o EGG COOKERY. 



io8.— Eggs en Espuma. 

Ingredients. — ■ Six eggs, two ounces of sifted sugar, one pint 
of milk, powdered cinnamon. 

Separate the whites of the eggs and beat 
them with the sugar to a very stiff froth ; heat 
the milk, and when nearly boiling, place the 
froth in it by spoonsful, keeping each separate ; 
leave them until they are set, then turn and 
cook the other side. Pile on a dish and 
sprinkle with sugar and powdered cinnamon. 

109. — Pancakes au Naturel. 

Ingredients. — Two eggs, quarter pound of flour, one lemon, 
four ounces of lard or butter, half pint of milk, two ounces of 
sifted sugar. 

Rub a little salt into the flour in a basin, 
make a hole in the centre, stir in part of the 
milk until the flour is well mixed ; break in one 
egg and beat ■with the flat side of a spoon for 
five minutes, add the other and beat until the 
surface is covered with air bubbles, then mix in 
the remainder of the milk ; melt a piece of 
butter as large as a walnut in a small saute pan 
and pour in sufficient batter to make a thin 
pancake ; shake the pan gently for two or three 
minutes, then turn the pancake with a plate, or 
toss it, and brown the other side ; when finished 
lay it on a porous paper to absorb the grease ; 



EGG COOKERY. 6i 

sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice, roll and 
place it on a hot dish. Dress the pancakes 
neatly on a dish and keep them hot as they are 
made. 

110. — Apple Pancake. 

Ingredients. — Two eggs, quarter pound of flour, hah a 
lemon, four ounces of lard or butter, half pint of milk, two 
ounces of sifted sugar, half pound of apples. 

Prepare a batter as in No. log, mince the 

apple very finely and mix it into the batter with 

the second portion of the milk ; proceed in the 

same manner, and when they are finished, 

powder, if desired, with cinnamon. 

Ill, — Preserved Ginger or Pine-apple 
Pancakes. 

Ingredients. — Two eggs, quarter pound of flour, four ounces 
of lard or butter, half pint of milk, half tea-cupful of preserved 
ginger or pine apple. 

Proceed as in No. 109, substituting preserved 
ginger or pine-apple. 

ii2.^Liqueur Pancakes. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, four ounces of flour, half pint cream, 
one table-spoonful of brandy, one gill of milk, one table-spoonful 
of ratafia or other liqueur, sifted sugar. 

Prepare the batter as in No. 109, beating 
each egg into the mixture separately for five 
minutes, add the brandy and liqueur and beat 



62 EGG COOKERY. 

again for five minutes ; whisk the cream until 
it is a stiff froth and stir it into the batter ; 
proceed in the same manner and serve with 
plenty of sifted sugar on each. 

113.— CEufs a I'eau. 

Zngredienis.— Seven eggs, two ounces of sugar, one lemon. 
Boil the sugar and juice of the lemon in 
three-quarters of a pint of water for a quarter 
of an hour over a slow fire ; break the yolks 
and one white of the eggs into a basin, and add 
the sweetened water, strain it through a sieve 
into the dish in which it will be- served ; place 
it in a larger dish of boiling water in a moderate 
oven until it is hghtly browned. Serve at once. 

114. — Gateau d'CEufs. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, two ounces castor sugar, three 
quarters of a pint of milk, quarter pound of loaf sugar, lemon 
juice, or two laurel leaves. 

Break the yolks and the whites of the eggs 
into separate basins ; beat the whites to a very 
stiff froth, stir the two ounces of sugar in a pan 
over a slow fire until it is melted, and coat the 
mould with it thickly; half fill it with the 
beaten whites, place the mould in a saucepan 
of boiling water, cover with a lid and strew 
over it some hot coals ; boil for a quarter of an 



EGG COOKERY. 63 

hour, turn the shape on a deep dish and drain off 
the caramel of sugar. Boil the milk, remaining 
sugar, and flavouring for five minutes and let it 
cool ; beat the yolks of the eggs, add them to 
the milk, and stir over the fire until they 
begin to thicken. Let the custard get cold and 
pour it round the shape. 

115. — CEufs aux Macarons. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, three macaroons, one lemon, one 
ounce of castor sugar, one ounce of butter. 

Crumble the macaroons and put them with 
six yolks and three whites of the eggs into a 
basin ; add the sugar and a little lemon juice. 
Melt the butter and beat it well with the other 
ingredients ; pour the mixture into a dish in 
which it will be served, place it in a large dish 
of boiling water in the oven for half an hour. 
When nearly done glaze it with a little dissolved 
sugar and pass a salamander over. 

116. — Babka. 

Ingredients. — "Twenty eggs, three pints of milk, one large 
lemon, one slice of bread crumbs, one tea-cupful of cream, 
eight ounces of butter, two ounces of cream cheese, four 
ounces of almonds, sugar. 

Beat eight eggs in the milk with the juice of 
the lemon, drain and press it ; soak the crumbs 
in the cream, squeeze it and mix with the 



64 EGG COOKERY. 

pressed ^gg. Add the butter and two yolks of 
eggs, and mix for three quarters of an hour, 
always moving the hand in the same direction. 
Pound the cheese, chop the almonds, beat the 
whites of twelve eggs to a stiff froth, and add 
these ingredients to the beaten eggs; fill at 
intervals a tall, narrow, well buttered mould 
leaving time between each interval for the 
cream to rise. Bake in a moderate oven for 
half an hour ; turn it carefully out of the 
mould, and powder abundantly with sugar. 

117. — Piroski aux CEufs. 

Ingredients.-^Six eggs, three quarters of pound of cheese, 
ten ounces of bread crumbs, half ounce of sugar, half tea-cupful 
of cream, four ounces of currants, flour, four ounces of butter 

Mix all the ingredients, excepting the flour, 
well together, season with salt and a little nut- 
meg ; • mix in enough flour to make a paste, 
which can be formed into balls. Flatten and 
fry them in hot butter. 

118.— Nalenskis. 

Ingredients. — Fifteen eggs, one and a half gill ot cream, 
three quarters pint milk, two ounces of butter, one lemon 
eight ounces of flour, apricot jam, four ounces of sugar. 

Grate the rind of the lemon on sufficient 
lump sugar to absorb it, melt one ounce of the 
butter, beat eight eggs with the flour, two 



EGG COOKERY. 65 

ounces of sugar, the melted butter, and the 
cream ; dissolve the rest of the butter in an 
omelet pan, and make two or more pancakes of 
the mixture, spread them with jam and lay 
them one over the other in a mould; beat well 
seven yolks of eggs, mix two whites to a stiff 
froth, and stir with the milk and two ounces of 
sugar, into the yolks, pour it over the pancakes 
and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. 
Turn it on a dish. 

119. — Omelette au Naturel. 

Ingredients. — Three eggs, one ounce of butter. 
For an omelet of three eggs, a pan about 
seven inches' in diameter would be a suitable 
size, and it must never be used for any other 
purpose. Beat the eggs for five minutes, and 
season with sugar or salt. Melt the butter in 
an omelet pan over a clear moderate fire, and 
when it is warm pour in the eggs. Let the 
pan rest a moment to set them, then shake it 
gently and continually to prevent sticking ; 
when the edges are slightly set, run a thin 
sharp knife round them and revolve the pan in 
such a manner that the omelet will revolve in 
a contrary direction. When the surface begins 
to set, slide it on a hot dish and fold it in half. 

E 



66 EGG COOKERY. 

Serve immediately with, if desired, a little 
sifted sugar over it. It should be a pale 
golden colour. 

I20. — Omelette au Jambon. 

Ingredients. — One slice of cooked ham, five eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, quarter pound of white cooked meat, 
lemon juice, three ounces of butter. 

Beat the eggs for five minutes. Chop the 
meat and ham and mix them vi^ith the parsley ; 
season with pepper and a little lemon juice, and 
stir all together lightly. Melt the butter in an 
omelet pan, and when it is hot pour the mixture 
into it. Proceed as in No. iig. Slide it on a 
dish, double in half, and serve hot. 

131. — Omelette au Qratin. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, one tomato, two ounces of butter, 
one lemon, one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, garlic. 

Rub a basin with garlic, and beat the eggs 
in it for five minutes ; pulp the tomato through 
a sieve, and stir into the eggs ; season with salt, 
pepper, and a little lemon juice. Melt the 
butter in an omelet pan, and pour the mixture 
into it. Proceed as in No. 119. Slide the 
omelet on a dish and sprinkle with cheese ; 
double it and sprinkle it again. Serve at once. 



EGG COOKERY. 67 



122. — Omelet with Bacon. 

Ingredients.— Font eggs, one ounce of butter, quarter pound 
of bacon. 

Cut the bacon into small dice and fry it with 

the butter. Beat the eggs well, season with a 

Httle dry mustard and pepper, and pour them 

into the pan, shaking it at once to mix the 

ingredients. Proceed as in No. iig, double the 

omelet, and serve hot. 

123. — Omelette Souffle. 

Ingredients. — Three eggs, two ounces of butter, one dessert- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, one salt-spoonful of chopped onion, 
one pinch of dried herbs. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a very stiff 
froth ; mix the yolks with the parsley, onion, 
herbs, and a little pepper and salt. Stir the 
herbs gently into them, and proceed as in No. 
119. Double the omelet and serve immediately. 

124. — Sweet Omelet. 

Ingredients. — Five eggs, one table-spoonful of castor sugar, 
two ounces of butter, apricot, or other preserve. 

Beat the eggs with the sugar for five minutes ; 
melt the butter in an omelet pan, and when hot 
pour in the eggs. Proceed as in No. iig. 
Slide the omelet on to a hot dish, and place in 
some preserve. Double it and serve hot. 



68 EGG COOKERY. 



i25.^0melette a la Francaise. 

Ingredients. — •Four eggs, quarter pound of mushrooms, one 
tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, two ounces of butter. 

Chop the mushrooms finely- Whip the eggs 
for five minutes, and beat into them the mush- 
rooms and parsley ; season with pepper and 
salt. Melt the butter in an omelet pan, and 
when it is very hot pour in the eggs, and pro- 
ceed as in No. iig. 

126.— Savoury Omelet. 

Ingredients. ^YovLX eggs, three ounces of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of dried herbs, one tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, 
one small salt-spoonfuI of chopped onion. 

Whip the eggs for five minutes and beat into 
them the herbs, parsley, and onion ; season 
with pepper and salt. Melt the butter in an 
omelet pan, and when it is hot pour in the 
mixture, and proceed as in No. 119. Slide the 
omelet on a hot dish, double it, and serve 
immediately. 

127. — Cheese Omelet. 

Ingredients. — Three eggs, three ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese, one ounce of butter. 

Beat the eggs well, and stiir the cheese into 

them ; season with salt, pepper, and mustard. 

Melt the butter in an omelet pari, and when hot 

pour in the mixture. Proceed'as in No. 119. 



EGG COOKERY- 69 

128. — Bread Omelet. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, one slice of bread crumb, three 
ounces of butter. 

Beat the eggs for five minutes ; cut the bread 
into small dice, and fry lightly in part of the 
butter, which must be boiling. Stir into the 
eggs and season with pepper and salt. Melt the 
remainder of the butter in a omelet pan, and 
when it is hot pour in the mixture. Proceed 
as in No. iig. 

129. — Omelet con Crema. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, two table-spoonsful of rich cream 
one ounce of sifted sugar, two ounces of butter, lemon juice. 

Whip the eggs for five minutes ; beat the 
cream and sugar into them, add a few drops of 
lemon juice ; melt the butter in an omelet pan, 
and when hot pour in the mixture. Proceed 
as in No. iig. Slide the omelet on to a dish, 
and sprinkle with sugar and a few more drops 
of lemon. 

130. — Omelette a la Milanaise. 

Ingredients. — Eight eggs, three ounces of butter. 

Beat the eggs well and add one ounce of the 
butter cut in small dice ; melt the remainder of 
the butter in an omelet pan, and when hot pour 
in the eggs. Proceed as in No. iig. 



70 EGG COOKERY. 

131. — Omelette a la Portuguaise, 

Ingredients. — Twelve eggs, half pound of butter, one table- 
spoonful of spinach juice, one table-spoonful of tomato juice. 

Make two omelets a la Milanaise, No. 130, 
with six of the eggs and part of the butter ; 
colour one with the spinach juice and one with 
the tomato juice before pouring them into the 
pan. Make two more with the remaining eggs, 
using four whites and two yolks for one, and 
two whites and four yolks for the other, which 
will cause them to be different colours. Dress 
them on a hot dish and serve quickly. 

132. — Omelette aux Huitres. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, twenly-four large oysters, two ounces 
of butter. 

Blanch the oysters in their liquor, drain them 
well and cut into slices ; beat the eggs for five 
minutes and stir the oysters into them ; season 
with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne, and pro- 
ceed as in No. 119. Serve very hot. 

133. — Omelette aux Moules. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, thirty-six mussels, three ounces of 
butter, lemon. 

Drain the mussels well, take off the injurious 
parts, and saute them in one ounce of butter. 
Beat the eggs well and stir the mussels into 



EGG COOKERY. 71 

them ; season with salt, pepper, and a few drops 
of lemon ; melt the butter in an omelet pan, 
and proceed as in No. 119. 

134. — Omelette Caviare. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, three table-spoonsful of caviare, 
garlic, one very small point of shalot, two and a half ounces 
of butter, one dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, one green 
onion, lemon juice. 

Mince the caviare and shalot very fine. 
Work the onion and parsley to a paste with 
half an ounce of the butter ; season with 
lemon juice, salt, pepper, and a dash of vinegar. 
Rub an omelet pan with the garlic, melt one 
ounce of butt ^r and warm in it the caviare and 
shalot. Beat the eggs for five minutes, add the 
caviare and shalot, and beat again. Melt one 
ounce of butter in the pan, pour in the eggs, 
and make an omelet as in No. 119. Spread 
the paste on a hot dish, place the omelet over 
it, and sprinkle with lemon juice. Serve very 
hot. 

135.— Omelette aux Ecrevisses. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, one small lobster, three ounces of 
butter, one table-spoonful of stock. 

Take the lobster from the shell ; reserve a 
part of the meat from the tail and pound the 
remainder in a mortar. Pound a little of 



72 EGG COOKERY. 

the shell very fine with one ounce of butter, 
salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg. Mince the 
meat reserved from tail. Beat the eggs well, 
season with salt and pepper, and mix into them 
the pounded meat, shell and minced meat. 
Melt the remainder of the butter in an omelet 
pan, pour in the eggs, and proceed as in No. 
iig. 

136. — Omelette de Quebec. 

Zngredienls.— Six eggs, two table-spoonsful of cornflour, 
half pint milk, two ounces of butter, one tea-spoonful of 
baking powder. 

Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; 
beat the yolks well. Mix the cornflour very 
smoothly in a little milk, add the remainder 
and stir it into the yolks ; mix the whites in 
lightly, and add the baking powder. Melt the 
butter in an omelet pan, and proceed as in 
No. iig. 

137. — Canadian Omelet. 

Ingredients. — 'Six eggs, one tea-cupful of milk, two ounces 
of butter, one tea-cupful of bread crumbs, one green onion, 
one dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, one sah-spoonful of 
sweet herbs. 

Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; 
beat the yolks well, boil the milk and melt one 
ounce of the butter. Chop the onion and 



EGG COOKERY. 73 

herbs, and stir them with the parsley into the 
yolks, season with salt and pepper ; add the 
milk, bread crumbs, and melted butter, and 
beat all well together. Stir the whites lightly 
in ; melt part of the remaining butter, pour in 
part of the mixture, and proceed as in No. 
iig ; making two small omelets. 

138. — Fondu de Canada. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, two table-spoonsful of flour, one tea- 
cupful of milk, one ounce of butter. 

Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; 
beat the yolks. .Mix the flour smoothly in 
a little milk, and stir it into the remainder ; 
add it with the butter to the yolks ; mix the 
whites lightly into them. Pour into a well 
greased omelet tin, and bake in a moderate 
oven for fifteen minutes. Sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and cinnamon, or with grated 
Parmesan cheese, and serve immediately. 

139. — Souffle Parmesan. 

Ingredients.— Foat eggs, three ounces of Parmesan cheese, 
one ounce of flour, one gill of milk, one ounce of butter. 

Melt the butter in a saute pan, stir in the 
flour, season with mustard, cayenne pepper, 
and salt. Pour in the milk, and stir till the 
mixture is set. Let it cool in a basin, grate 



74 EGG COOKERY. 

and stir in the cheese, drop in the yolks of the 
eggs, one by one, and beat well. Whip the 
whites to a stiff froth, and stir lightly in. 
Butter a souffle tin, pour in the mixture, and 
bake in a sharp oven for fifteen minutes. 

140. — Savoury Souffle. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, half pound of cheese, half pound 
of butter, one French roll, half pint of milk. 

Grate the cheese and beat it with the butter 
and the yolks of the eggs till smooth. Soak 
the inside of the roll in the milk, and beat it 
into the cheese. Whip the whites to a stiff 
froth, and stir lightly into the mixture. Warm 
all together until nearly boiling ; stir the whole 
time. Pour into little paper cases, and bake 
in a moderate oven for ten minutes. 

141. — Souffle a la Reine. 

Ingredients. — Eight eggs, two ounces of butter, one ounce 
of castor sugar, one and a half gill of milk, two ounces of 
flour, one gill preserve, essence of vanilla, cochineal. 

Take for the first part one ounce of flour, one 
ounce of butter, one ounce of sugar, one gill of 
milk, a few drops of essence, three yolks and 
four whites of the eggs. Melt the butter in a 
stewpan ; add the sugar, flour, and milk, and 
stir till the mixture will clear the sides of the 



EGG COOKERY. 75 

pan. Let it cool a little, and mix in the yolks. 
Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and stir into the 
mixture a few drops of essence. Take a second 
pan and proceed in the same manner with the 
remaining ingredients, adding a few drops of 
cochineal. Pour the first mixture into a souffle 
tin, and then the second. Place the tin in a 
saucepan of boiling water, not higher than half 
way up the tin, cover with a tightly fitting Hd, 
and steam for thirty-five mmotes^ Reverse the 
tin over a hot dish, and leave the souffle stand- 
ing half pink and half white. 

142.— Cheese Souffle. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, quarter pound of cheese, quarter 
pound of butter. 

Grate the cheese and beat it well with the 
butter and yolks of the eggs. Season with salt 
and cayenne pepper. Whisk the whites to a 
stiff froth, and stir lightly in. Bake in a deep 
dish for half an hour. 

143. — Souffle de Riz. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, two ounces of rice, one pint of 
milk, three ounces of sugar, one lemon. 

Stew the rice with the sugar and peel of the 
lemon in the milk until it is tender. Take out 
the peel, and proceed as in No. 144. 



76 i:gg cookery. 

144. — Souffle de Vermicfcili. 

Ingredients. — Five eggs, two ounces vermicelli, three ounces 
of sifted sugar, one pint of milk, one small tea-spoonful of 
powdered cinnamon. 

Stew the vermicelli in the milk until it is soft ; 
stir in part of the sugar and cinnamon, and let 
it cool. Beat each yolk in separately for six 
minutes. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, and 
stir them lightly into the mixture. Pour into 
a souffle tin, and bake in a good oven for twenty 
minutes. Sprinkle with the cinnamon and 
sugar. 

145. — Souffle des Pommes. 

Ingredients. — Six eggs, six apples, three ounces of sifted 
sugar, one gill of cream, one table-spoonful of cornflour, one 
lemon. 

Pare, chop, and stew the apples with the 
sugar and juice of the lemon until they are 
reduced to a pulp. Beat them quite smooth, 
and put them again into the stewpan. Mix the 
cornflour with the cream, add to the apples, 
and stir till it boils ; then turn it into a basin to 
cool. Beat the yolks of the eggs well. Whisk 
the whites of two of them to a stiff froth, then 
add to the yolks, and stir all into the apple. 
Butter a souffle tin, and pour in the mixture. 
Whisk the remaining whites to a very stiff 



EGG COOKERY. 77 

froth, and place over. Buke in a moderate 
oven for twenty minutes. 

146. — Ice Curacoa Souffle. 

Ingredients. — Five eggs, quarter pound of sifted sugar, half 
gill of water, half pint of cream, one glass of curacoa. 

Boil the sugar in the water for ten minutes. 
Pour it into a basin, and stir in the yolks of the 
eggs. Place the basin over a saucepan of 
boihng water, and beat for twenty minutes. 
Whip the cream and three of the whites of the 
eggs to a froth. Add the curacoa, and mix 
lightly into the yolks. Freeze it in an ice pail, 
and dress it in a tin. Sprinkle with powdered 
macaroons. 

147. — Fondu Ordinaire. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, two ounces of butter, one ounce 
of flour, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, two ounces of 
Grnyere cheese, one gill milk. 

Melt the butter in an omelet pan, stir in the 

flour and mix well. Add the yolks of the eggs 

and the milk, and let it simmer for two minutes. 

Stir well to prevent sticking to the pan, then 

take it from the fire. Cut the Gruyere 

into thin slices and stir it with the Parmesan 

into the mixture. Season with salt, pepper, and 

a little nutmeg. Beat two of the whites to a 



78 EGG COOKERY. 

very stiff froth and stir them in gently. Fill a 
souffle tin and bake in a moderate oven for 
twenty minutes. 

148. — Ice Cream Souffle. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, three gills good cream, five ounces 
of sifted sugar, essence of vanilla. 

Whip the cream in a cold basin until it is 
stiff. Whisk the eggs to a froth with a knife on 
a plate. Mix them lightly into the cream, and 
add the sugar and essence. Freeze it in the ice 
pail, and dress it in a souffl6 tin. 

149. — Fondu au Qratin. 

Ingredients. — Four eggs, two and a half ounces of butter, 
one ounce of flour, four ounces of Gruyere cheese, one gill of 
milk, bread crumbs. 

Melt two ounces of butter in a pan, stir in 
the flour and mix well. Add the yolks of the 
eggs and the milk and let it simmer for two 
minutes, stirring all the while ; then take it from 
the fire. Shred the Gruyere into thin slices and 
stir into the mixture, season with salt and 
pepper. Beat two of the whites to a stiff froth 
and stir them in gently. Fill a shallow tin, 
sprinkle with bread crumbs. Break over them 
the remainder of the butter in small pieces, and 
bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. 



EGG COOKERY. 79 

150. — Fondu a la Creme. 

Ingredients.— Six eggs, half ounce of flour, quarter ounce of 
potato flour, one tea-cupful of thick cream, one ounce of butter, 
two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, three ounces of Gruyire 
cheese. 

Put the yolks of the eggs into a basin with 

the flour well dried and the potato flour, and 

mix well together. Pour in the cream ; add 

the butter cut into small pieces ; place it in a 

stewpan on the fire and let it simmer for three 

minutes, stirring all the time; then take it 

from the fire. Shred the Gruyere into thin 

slices and add it with the Parmesan. Mix all 

well together, season with salt, pepper, and a 

very little nutmeg, and remove it from the fire. 

Beat two of the whites to a hard froth and stir 

them in gently. Fill a souffle tin, and bake in 

a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Serve at 

once. 

151. — Cheese Fondu. 

Ingredients.— A quarter of a pound of grated cheese, two 
eggs, two ounces of butter, half ounce of vermicelli, half pint of 
milk, half tea-cupful of bread crumbs. 

Boil the vermicelli in the milk and pour over 
the bread crumbs in a pie dish. Melt the 
butter and stir it in. Beat the eggs and add 
with salt and pepper, the vermicelli and cheese,. 



8o EGG COOKERY. 

beating the whole,time. Add a tea-spoonful of 
baking powder and bake in a quick oven for 
half an hour. Serve at once. 



INDEX. 



RECII'E 


K 




Aile, ffiufs 


28 


Beans, French, Turlilla 




Anchois, Eggs Farcies 




with 


^4 


aux ... 


100 


Beaten Eggs with 




Anchovies, Eggs an 




Tomatoes ... 


4- 


Gratin with 


62 


Bechamel, fJiufs a la ... 


76 


Anchovies, Eggs sur 




Blandos, Egus 


5 


le Plat with 


65 


Boiled Eggs 


4 


Anchovies, Savoury Eggs 




Bread Omelet 


128 


with 


97 


Campagne Oiufs a la ... 


84 


Anchovy Toast, Eggs 




Canada, Fondu de 


138 


with 


68 


Canadian Omelet 


137 


Anglais, Fromage ( Eufs 




Caper Sauce, Eggs with 


63 


en 


90 


Cases, Eggs in 


70 


Apple Pancake 


no 


Caviare, Omelette 


134 


Asparagos. Eggs Revuel- 




Celestina, Tortilla a la ... 


19 


tos con 


M 


Cheese Fondu 


151 


Asparagus, Poached Eggs 




Cheese Omelet 


127 


with 


53 


Cheese Souffle 


142 


Asperges, CEufs sur le 




Colifiores, Eggs Revuel- 




Plat 


73 


tos con 


13 


Aspic of Eggs 


69 


Confituras, Tortilla de... 


22 


Babka 


116 


Cream, Savoury Egg ... 


52 


Bacon, Eggs and 


34 


Cream, Savoury Egg, 




Bacon, Omelet with ... 


122 


Baked 


55 


Baked, Egg Cream 




Cream, Souiifte Ice 


148 


Savoury 


55 


Crema, Omelette con ... 


129 


Baked Eggs 


45 


Crdme, Fondu a la 


150 



82 



INDEX. 



RECIPE 

21 



Cuba, Tortilla de 

Cubano, Eggs a la ... 48 

Cubano, Savoury a la ... 98 

Cuvacoa, Souffle, Ice ... 146 

Curried Egcs ... ... 50 

Curry, Egg, Savoury 99 

Cullets, Egg ... ... 5l 

Cutlets, Egg, with 

Tomato Sauce ... 64 

D'duifs Filet 88 

D'CEufs, Fricassee ... 87 

D'Qiufs, Gateau ... 114 

D'Orleans, CEufs a la ... 85 

Ecrevisses Omelette aux 155 

Egg Cutlet.s ... ... 61 

Egg Cutlets, with Tomato 

Sauce ... ... 64 

Egg Fritters ... ... 51 

Egg Rissoles ... ... 15 

Egg Rissoles with Ham 10 

Egg Salmagundi ... 105 
Egi; S.ilmagundi with 

Mam ... 35 
I'-gi; Salmagundi with 

Lamb's Sweet breads 37 
I'.gg Salmagundi with 

Preserve ... ... 106 

Egg Sandwiches ... 67 

Eggs a la Cubano ... 48 

Eggs a la tiitana ... 58 

I'.gi^s a la Habanera ... 46 

Eggs a la Nieve ... 103 

Eggs and Bacon ... 34 

I'^ggs and Cream ... 60 
Eggs and Cream with 

Mushrooms ... 59 

ICggs and Tomato Sauce 47 



RECIFE 

Eggs, Aspic of 69 

Eggs au , Gratin with 

Anchovies... ... 62 

Eggs au Vergus 78 

Eggs Blandos ... ... 5 

Eggs con Leche ... 107 

Eggs con Queso ... 36 

Ejigs con Raspados ... 11 

Eggs Escalfados ... 44 

Eggs en Espuma ... 108 

Eggs Espirituales ... IC4 

Eggs Farcies au Persil 102 

Eggs Farcies aux Anchois 100 

Eggs in Cases ... ... 70 

Eggs in Cases au Gratin 72 

Eggs in Hominy Cases.. 85 

Eggs Mejidos ... ... 9 

Eggs piquant with Mush- 
rooms ... ... 66 

Eggs Poached with 

Vegetables... ... 49 

Eggs Revueltos... ... 33 

Eggs Revueltos ■ con 

Asparagos ... ... 14 

Eggs Revueltos con 

Coliflores ... ... 13 

Eggs, Savoury ... ... 96 

Eggs sur le Plat ... 57 
Eggs sur le plat with 

Anchovies ... ... 65 

Eggs with a Puree of 

Sorrel 77 

Ejjgs with Anchovy 

Toast 68 

Eggs with Burnt \"inegar 32 

Eggs with Caper Sauce 63 

Eggswith Savoury Herbs 39 



Escalfados, Eggs 
Espirituales, Eggs 
Espuma, Eggs en 
Filet d'CEufs ... 
Fils, CEufs en ... 
Fish Tortilla ... 
Fondu a la Creme 
Fondu au Gratin 
Fondu, Cheese ... 
Fondu de Canada 
Fondu Ordinaire 
Francaise, Omelette a la 
French Beans, Tortilla 

with 
Fricassee d'QLufs 
Fried Eggs 
Fried Eggs with Ragout 

of Mushrooms 
Fried Eggs with 

Tomatoes ... 
Fritters, Egg ... 
Fromage, Croute de, 

CEufs en 
Gateau d'CEufs ... 
Ginger, Preserved, oi 

Pine Apple Pan- 
cakes 
Gitana, Eggs a la 
Gratin, Fondu an 
Gratin, Omelette au .. 
Guisados, Eggs, Savoury 
Habanera, Eggs a la 
Habanera, Savoury Eggs 

a la... 
Ham and Eggs ... 
Ham, Egg „ Rissoles 

with 



INDEX. 


83 


REC[PU 


RECtPH 


44 


Ham, Egg Salmagundi 




104 


with 


3S 


108 


Ham, Tortilla of 


18 


88 


Hard Eggs 


7 


95 


flard Eggs with Tomato 




26 


Sauce 


56 


ISO 


Herbs, Savoury, Eggs 




149 


with 


39 


151 


Hominy Cases, Eggs in 


85 


138 


Huitres, Omelette a la 


132 


147 


Ice Cream Souffle ... 


148 


1 25 


Ice Curocoa Souffle ... 


146 




Jambon, Omelette au 


120 


24 


Kidneys, Tortilla of ... 


17 


87 


Kluskis des CEufs 


93 


8 


Lamb's Sweetbreads, 






Egg Salmagundi with 


37 


81 


Leche, Eggs con 


107 




Little Eggs 


91 


41 


Liqueur Pancakes 


112 


51 


Macarons, CEufs aux ... 


i'5 




Matelote, CEufs en 


79 


89 


Mejidos, Eggs 


9 


114 


Milianaise, Omelette a la 


130 


r 


Miroir, CEufs au 


74 




Miroir, CEufs au, a la 




III 


Moderne ... 


71 


• 58 


Monster Egg 


38 


. 149 


Monies, Omelette^ la ... 


133 


. 121 


Mushrooms, Eggs and 




1 94 


Cream with 


59 


. 46 


Mushrooms, Eggs 




s 


Piquant with 


66 


lOI 


Mushrooms, Fried Eggs 




. 40 


with Ragout of 


81 


s 


Nalenskis 


118 


10 


Naturel, Omelette au ... 


119 



84 



INDEX. 



RECIPE 

Naturel, Pancakesau ... 109 

Nes( Eggs 75 

Nieve, Eggs k la ... 103 

(TLufs a la Bechamel ... 76 

lEufs a laCampagne ... 84 

(Jiufs a la d'Orleans ... 86 

CEufskl'Aile 28 

CEufs a I'Eau ... ... 1 13 

(Tiufs au Fromage 

Anglais ... ... 90 

CEufs au Macarons ... 115 

(TLufs au Miroir... ... 74 

•Tiufs au Miroir a la 

Moderne 71 

(i^ufs au Petit.s Pois ... 80 

rjiufsauVin du Rhin ... 82 
Giufs en Caisse i la 

Parmesan ... ... 83 

CEufs en Croute de 

Fromage ... ... 89 

GiufsenFils ... . 95 

CEufs en Matelote ... 79 

CEufs, Kluskis de . 93 

CEufs, Poroski aux ... 117 
CEufs sur le Plat aux 

Asperges 73 

Omelet, Bread 128 

Omelet, Canadian ... 137 

Omelet, Cheese ... 127 

Omelet con Crema ... 129 

Omelet, Savoury ... 126 

Omelet, Sweet 124 

Omelet with Bacon ... 122 

Omelette a la Francaise 125 

Omelette a la Hultres... 132 

Omelette a la Milanaise 130 

Omelette a la Moules ... 133 



Omelette a la Portii- 

gaise 131 

Omelette au Gratin ... 121 

Omelette au Jambon ... 120 

Omelette au Naturel ... ir9 

Omelette aux Ecrevisses 135 

Omelette Caviare ... 134 

Omelette de Quebec ... 136 

Omelette Souffle ... 123 
Onion and Tomato Tor- 

lilla 30 

Onion Tortilla ... ... 29 

Ordinaire, Fondu ... 147 

Pancakes, Apple ... no 

Pancakes au Naturel ... 109 

Pancikes, Liqueur ... 112 
Parmesan, CEufs en 

Caisse a la ... ... S3 

Parmesan, Souffle ... 139 

Pastel of Eggs 12 

Persil, Eggs Farcies au 102 

Pickled Eggs ... ... 3 

Pine Apple, or Preserved 

Ginger Pancakes ... in 
Piquant, Egg-, with 

Mushrooms ... 66 

Pisto ... ... 43 

Plat, Eggs sur le ... 57 

Poached Eggs ... ... 6 

Poached Egg Salad ... 31 
Poached Eggs with 

Asparagus 53 

Poached Eggs, with 

Vegetables ... 49 

Pois, Petits, CEufs au 80 

Pommes, Souffle de ... 145 

Poto.iki aux CEuls ... 117 



IXDEX. 



RECIPE 

Portugaise, Omelette i la 131 

Potato Tortilla 27 

Preserve, Egg Salma- 

giinrii with 106 

Preserve Egs;s, to ... 2 
Pre-served (linger or Pine 

Apple Pancnkes ... in 

Qu-liec. Oniele'te rie ... 136 

Queso, Egf;s con ... 36 

Kasparlos, Eggs con ... 11 

Reine, Souffle a U ... 141 

Kevueltos, Esj^s ... 33 
Revueltos, Eggs, con 

Asparagos ... ... 14 

Revueltos, Eggs, con 

Coliflores ... ... 13 

Rhin, CEufs au Vin du 82 

Rissoles, Eg,r 15 

Rissoles, Egg, with Flam 10 

Rissoles, Savoury Egg... 54 

Riz. Souffle de ... ... 143 

Salad, Poached Egg ... 31 

Salmagundi, Egg ... 105 
Salmagundi, Egg, with 

Ham 35 

Salmagundi, Egg, wiih 

Lamb's Sweetbreads 37 
Salmagundi, Egg, with 

Preserve ... ... 106 

Sandwiches, Egg ... 67 

Sauce, Caper, Eggs with 63 
Sauce, Tomato, Egg 

Cutlets with ... 64 

Sauce, Tomato, Eggs and 47 
Sauce, Tomato, Hard 

Eggs with 56 

Savoury Curry Eggs ... 99 



RECTPE 

Savoury Egg Cream ... 52 
Savoury Egg Cream 

Biked 55 

Savoury Egg Riss'>li'S ... 54 

Savou'y Eggs ... ... 96 

Savoury Eggs i la 

Cubano ... ... 98 

Savoury Eggs a la 

Habanera ... ... loi 

Savoury Eggs Guisado> 94 
Savoury Eggs with 

Anchovies ... ... 97 

Savoury Herbs, Eggs 

with ' ... ... 39 

Savoury Omelet ... 126 

Savoury Souffle... ... J40 

Soplada, Tortilla ... 20 
Sorrel, Eggs wi'h a 

Puree ot ... ... 77 

Souffle a la Reine ... 141 

Souffle, Cheese... ... 142 

Souffle de Riz ... ... 143 

Souffle de Vermicelli ... 144 

Souffle des Pommes ... 145 

Souffld, Ice Cream ... 148 

Souffle, Ice Curacoa 146 

Souffle, Omelette ... 123 

Souffle Parmesan ... 139 

Souffle. Savoury ... 140 

Spinach, Tortilla of ... 25 
Sweetbreads, Lamb's, 

Egg Salmagundi with 37 

Sweet Omelet ... ... 124 

Talmonses de St. Denis 92 

Test an Egg to r 

Tomato and Onion Tor- 
tilla 30 



86 



INDEX. 



RECIPE 

Tomato Sauce, Egg 

Cutlets with ... 64 

Tomato Sauce, Eggs and 47 
Tomato Sauce, Hard 

Eggs with 56 

Tomatoes, Beaten Eggs 

with ... ... 42 

Tomatoes, Fried Eggs 

with 41 

Tortilla a la Celestina ... 19 

Tortilla au Naturel ... 16 

Tortilla de Confituras ... 22 

Tortilla de Cuba ... 21 

Tortilla, Fish ... 26 

Tortilla of Ham ... 18 



RECIPE 

Tortilla of Kidneys ... 17 

Tortilla of Spinach ... 25 

Tortilla, Onion 29 

Tortilla, Onion and 

Tomato ... ... 30 

Tortilla, Potato 27 

Tortilla Soplada ... 20 
Tortilla with French 

Beans ... ... 24 

Tortilla with Parsley ... 23 
Ve>;etables, Eggs Poached 

with 49 

Vergus, Eggs au ... 7^ 

Vermicelli, Souffle de ... 144 

Vinegar, Eggs with Burnt 32 



Catalogue of Practical Handbooks 

Published by L. Upcott QUI, 
170, Strand, London, W.C. 



ART. PAGE 

Designing, Harmonic 5 

Lack, Hand-Made — 7 

Old Violins 12 

Painting, Decorative 8 

Perspective 9 

AMUSEMENTS. 

Cards 8 

Card Games.. 4, 6, 8, 11, 12 

Conjuring 1, 11 

Entertainments 3, 5, 11, 12 

Fortune Telling 6 

Games, General 6 

Magic Lanterns 7 

Palmistry 8 

Photography 9 

Pool 9 

Vamping 12 

COLLECTORS. 

autograpbs 2 

Books ...7, 11 

Butterflies 3 

Coins 4 

Dbagonflies 3 

Engravings 5 

Handwriting 7 

Hawk Moths 7 

Painters 8 

Postage Stamps 9 

Postmarks 9 

Pottery & Porcelain 9 

Violins 12 

WarMedals 12 

FARM. 

Goats 6 

Horses 7 

Pigs 9 

Poultry 7, 10 

Sheep 11 

Stock Records 3, 9, 11 

GARDEN. 

Begonias 2 

Book of Gardening . . 6 



CONTENTS. 

page 

Bulbs 3 

Cactus 3 

Carnations 4 

Chrysanthemums ... 4 

Cucumbers 4 

Dictionary op Gar- 
dening 5 

Ferns 5 

Fruit 6 

Gardening IN Egypt.. 6 

Grapes 7 

Greenhouse Manage- 
ment 7 

Home Gardening 6 

Mushrooms 8 

Orchids 8 

Perennials 7 

EOSES 10 

Tomatoes 12 

Vegetables 12 

HOME. 

Cookery ?, 4, 6, 6 

Lace, Hand-Made 7 

Medicine 7 

Millinery 8 

Needlework 5, 8 

Shaving . . ^ 11 

MECHANICS. 

Bookbinding 3 

Cane Basket Work . . 4 
Firework Making .. 6 

Fretwork 5 

Marqueterie 6, 8 

Metal Working.. 2, 11, 13 

ModelYachts 8 

Ticket Writing 12 

Turning 12 

Wood Working.. 2, 3, 6, 
8, 9, 12, 13 

NATURAL HISTORV. 

Aquaria 2 

Insects 2, 3, 7 



page 

Directory 8 

Sketches 8, 11 

Taxidermy 11 

Vivarium 12 

PETS. 

Birds 2, 3, 5, 6, 8, 12 

Dogs 4,5,6,7,10,12 

Guinea Pigs 7 

Mice 8 

Monkeys 8 

Pheasants „ . . "9 

Pigeons 9 

Babbits „ 10 

SPORT. 

Angling „2,6 

Cycling 4, 10 

Ferreting 5 

Game Preserving .. _ 5 

Sailing 3,7,10,11 

Skating „ 11 

Trapping 12 

WiLDFOWLINO 12 

Wild Sports 12 

SEAFARING. 

Boat Sailing 3 . 

Dictionary op Sea 

Teems 11 

Realities of Sea Life 11 

Sailing Tours 10 

Solent Guide 10 

Yachting Yarns 7 

TOURISTS. 

Friesland Meres 6 

Inland Watering 

Places 7 

Mountaineering , 

Welsh 8 

Eoute Maps^ 4, 10 

Seaside Watering 

Places 11 

Thames Guide 11 

202 C 2/00 



Practical Handbooes 



Amerloan Dainties, and How to Prepare Tbem. By an Amebican Ladt. 

In paper ^ price Is., 6y post Is. 2d. 

Angler, Book of tlie AU-Round. A Comprehensive Treatise on AngUng in 

both Fresh and Salt Water. In Four Divisions as named below. By JoHM 

BiCKERDYKE. With over 220 Engravings. InolothgiU^prioe^s.iid.yhypost^B.lQd. 

Angling for Coa/rae JFish. Bottom Fishing, according to the 

MeWiods in use on the Thames, Trent, Norfolk Broads, and elsewhere. New 

Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Illustrated. In paper, price 1$., by post Is. 2d. 

Angling for JPike. The most approved Methods of Fishing for Pike 

or Jack. New Edition, revised and enlarged. Profusely Illustrated. In 

paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 

Anglvng for Game JS'ish. The Various Methods of Fishing for 
Salmon ; Moorland, Chalk-stream, and Thames Trout ; Grayling and Char. 
New Edition. Well Illustrated. In ptwer, price Is. bd., by post Is. 9d. 

Attgling in Salt Water. Sea Fishing with Rod and Line, from the 
Shore, Piers, Jetties, Rocks, and from Boats ; together with Some Account 
of Hand-Lining. Over 50 Engravings. In paper^ price Is., by post. Is. 2d. 
Angler, The Modern. A Practical Handbook on all Kinds of Angling. By 
'* Otter." Well illustrated. New Edition. In cloth gilt^ price 2s. bd., dy 
post 28. QdJ 
Aquaria, Book of. A Practical Guide to the Construction, Arrangement, 
and Management of Freshwater and Marine Aquaria ; containing Full 
Information as to the Plants, Weeds, Fish, Molluses, Insects, &e., How and 
Where to Obtain Them, and How to Keep Them in Health. By Rev. Grboory 
C. Bateman, A.K.C., and Reginald A. R. Bennett, B.A. lUustrated. 
In cloth gilt, price 6s. bd., by post 5s. lOd. 
Aquaria, Fresh^arater: Their Construotion, Arrangement, Stocking, and 
Management. By Rev. G. C. Batesian, A.K.O. Fully IlIuBtrated. In 
oloth gilt, price Is. bd., by post Zs. lOd. 
Aquaria, Marine: Their Construotion, Arrangement, and Management. 
By R. A. R. Bennett, B.A. Fvdly Illxistrated. In oloth gilt, price 2s. bd., 
by poet 2s. dd 
Australia, Shall I Try? A Guide to the Australian Colonies for the 
Emigrant Settler and Business Man. With two Illustrations. By George 
Lacon James. Jn cloth gilt, price 3s. 6^., by post 3s. lOd. 
Aatograpb Collecting : A Practical Iilanual for Amateurs and Historical 
Studei^, containing ample information on the Selection and Arrangement 
of Autographs, the Detection of Forged Specimens, &c., Ac, to which are 
added numerous Facsimiles for Study and Reference, and an extensive 
Valuation Table of Autographs worth Collecting. By Henry T. Scott, 
M.D., L.R.C.P., &c. In leatherette gilt, price Is. bd. nett, by post Is. lOd. 
JSazaars and Fancy Fairs : Their Organization and Management. A 
Secretary's Vade Mecum. By John Muir. In paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 
Sees and Bee- Keeping: Scientific and Practical. By F. R. Chbshikb, 
F.L.S., F.R.M.S., Lecturer on Apiculture at South Kensington. In tzoo vols., 
doth gilt, price lbs. nett, by post lbs. bd. 

Vol. I.f Scientific. A complete Treatise on the Anatomy and Physio- 
logy of the Hive Bee. In oloth gilt, price 7s. bd. n&tt, by post 7s. lOd. 

Vol. II., Practical Management of Bees, An Bxhaustive Treatise 
on Advanced Bee Culture. In cloth gilt, price 88. bd. nett, by post Zs. lid. 
Bee-Keeping, Book of. A very practical and Complete Manual on the Proper 
Management of Bees, espeoially written for Beginners and Amateurs who have 
but a lew Hives. By W. B. Webster, First-olass Expert, B.B.K.A, Fully 
Illustrated. In vaper, price Is., by poH Is. 2d. ; cloth. Is. bd., by post Is. 8d. 
Begonia Culture, for Amateurs and Professionals. Containing Full Directions 
for the Successful Cultivation of the Begonia, under Glass and in the Open 
Air. By B. C. Ratknscroft. New Edition, Revised and Enlarged. lUus- 
trated. In vaper, price Is., by post U. 2d. 
Bent Iron 'Work: A Practical Manual of Instruction for Amateurs in the 
Art and Craft of Making and Ornamenting Light Articles in imitation of the 
beautiful Mediaeval and Italian Wrought Iron Work. By F. J. ERSKHfE. 
Illuatrated. In paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 
Birds, British, for the Cages and Aviaries. A Handbook relating to 
all British Birds which may be kept in Confinement Illustrated. By Dr. 
W. T. Greene. In cloth gilt, price 3s. bd., by post 3s. 9d. 
Boat Building and Sailing, Practical. Containing Full Instructions for 
Designing and BuUdin^ Punts, Skiffs, Canoea, Sailing Boats, &c. Particnlara 
of the most suitable Sailing Boats and Yachts for Amateurs, and Instructions 
for their Proper Handling. Fully Illustrated with Designs and WorkiM 
Diagrams. By Adrian Neison, C.E., Dixon Kemp, A.I.N. A., and Q. 
Christopher Davibs. In one vol., cloth gilt, price 7s, bd., by post 7s. IQd 



Published by Mr. L. Upcott Gill, London. 3 

Boat Building for Amateurs, Practical. ContaJning Full Instructions 
for Designing and Building Punts, Skiffs, Canoes, Sailing Boats, &o. Fully 
Illustrated with Working Diagrams. By Adrian Neison, Cl.E. Second 
Edition, Bevised and Enlarged by Dixon Kemp, Author of "A Manual of 
Yacht and Boat Sailing," &c. In cloth gilt, price 2a. bd., by pott 2s, 9d. 

Boat Sailing for Amateurs, Practical. Containing Particulars of the 
most Suitable Sailing Boats and Yachts for Amateurs, and Instructions 
for their Proper Handling, &c. Illustrated with numerous Diagrams. By 
G. Christopher Daties. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged, and with 
several New Plans of Yachts. In cloth gilt, price 5s., by post 58. 4d. 

Bookbinding for Amateurs : Being Descriptions of the various Tools and 
Appliances Required, and Minute Instructions for their Effective Use. By 
W. J. E. Cranb. Illustrated with 156 Engravings. In oloth gilt, price Zs.bd., 
by poet 28. 9d. 

Breeders' and Exhibitors' Record, for the Registration of Particulars con- 
cerning Pedigree Stock of every Description. By W. K. Taunton. In 3 Parts. 
Part I., The Pedigree Record. ParUII., The Stud Record. Part III., The Show 
Record. In cloth gilt, price each Part Zs. bd., or the get be., by post 6s. bd. 

British Dragonflles. Being an Exhaustive Treatise on our Native Odonata ; 
Their Collection, Classification, and Preservation. By W. J. Lucas, B.A. 
Very fully Illustrated with 27 Plates, Illustrating 39 Species exquisitely 
printed in Colour, and numerous Black- and- White Engravings. In cloth gilt, 
price 31«. bd, nett ; by post 32g. 

Bulb Culture, Popular. A Practical and Handy Ouide to the Successful 
Cultivation of Bulbous Plants, both in the Open and under Glass. By W. D. 
Druhy. New Edition. Fully Illustrated. In paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 

Bunkum Entertainments : A Collection of Original Laughable Skits on 
Conjuring, Physiognomy, Juggling, Performing fleas. Waxworks, Panorama, 
Phrenology, Phonograph, Seoond Sight, Lightning Calculators, Ventriloquism, 
Spirituahsm, &c.. to which are added Humorous Sketches, Whimsical 
Recitals, and Drawing-room Comedies. By Robert Ganthony Illustrated. 
In cloth, price Zs. bd., by post Zs. 9d. 

Butterflies, The Book of British: A Practical Manual for Collectors 
and Naturalists. Splendidly Illustrated throughout with very accurate 
Engravings of the Caterpillars, Chrysalids, and Butterflies, both upper and 
under sides, from drawings by the Author or direct from Nature. By 
W. J. Lucas, B.A. In cloth gilt, price 38. bd., by post 38. 9d. 

Butterfly and Moth Collecting: Where to Search, and What to Do. By 
G. E. SIMMS. Illustrated. In paper, prioe Is., by post U. 2d. 

Cabinet Making for Amateurs. Being clear Directions How to Construct 
many Useful Articles, such as Brackets, Sideboard, Tables, Cupboards, 
and other Furniture. Illustrated. In cloth gilt, price Zs. bd., by post Zs. Bd^ 

Cactus Culture for Amateurs : Being Descriptions of the various Cactuses 

Sown in this country ; with Full and Practical Instructions for their Success- 
1 Cultivation. By W. Watson, Assistant Curator of the Royal Botanic 
Gardens, Kew. New Edition. Profusely Dlustrated. In oloth, gilt, price 58. 
•nett, by post 5s. Id. 

Cage Birds, Diseases of : Their Causes, Symptoms, and Treatment. A Hand- 
book for everyone who keeps a Bird. By DK. W. T. Greene, F.Z.S. In paper, 
tirice Is., by post Is. 2d. 

Cage Birds, Notes on. Second Series. Being Practical Hints on the 
Management of British and Foreign Cage Birds, Hybrids, and Canaries. By 
various Fanciers. Edited by Dr. W. T. Greene. In cloth gilt, prioe 
bs. , by post bs. bd, 

Canary Book. The Breeding, Rearing, and Management of all Varieties of 
Canaries and Canary Mules, and all other matters connected with this Fancy. 
By Robert L. Wallace. Third Edition. In doth gilt, price bs., by poet 
5e. Id. ; with COLOURED PLATES, bs. bd., by post bs. lOd. 

General Management of Canaries, Cages and Cage-making, 
Breeding, Managing, Mule Breeding, Diseases and their Treatment, Moulting, 
Pests, &c. Illustrated. In cloth gilt, price 2s. bd., by post 2s. 9d. 

Maehibition Canaries. Full Particulars of all the different Varieties, 
their Points of Excellence, Preparing Birds for Exhibition, Formation and 
Management of Canary Societies and Exhibitions. Illustrated. In cloth 
gilt, price Zs. bd.. ty post Ze. 9d. 



PeACTICAL HANDiK.MjKS 



Cane Basket Work: A Practical Manual on Weaving Useful and Fany 
Baskets By Annie Firth. Illustrated. InclothgiU,priceU.bd.,ty postu.oa. 

Card Conjuring: Being Tricks with Cards, and How to Perfonn Them. ByPKOF. 

JSLLis Stanyon. Illustrated, and in Coloured Wrapper. Price U. , by postls. Zd. 
Card Tricks, Book of, for Drawing-room and Stage Entertainments by 

Amateurs ; with an exposure of Tricks as practised by Card Sharpers and 

Swindlers. Numerous Illustrations. By Pbof. E. Kunard. In Muatrated 

wrapper, price 2s. 6(i., by post 2s. 9d. 
Carnation Culture, for Amateurs. The Culture of Carnations and Picotees 

of all Classes in the Open Ground and in Pots. By B. C. Batenscroft. Illus 

trated. In pa/per, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 
Ohrysanthemum Culture, for Amateurs and Professionals. Containing Full 

Directions for the Successful Cultivation of the Chrysanthemum for Exhibition 

and the Market. By B. C. Eatbnscroft. New Edition. Illustrated. In 

paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d, 
Chrysanthemum, The Show, and Its Cultivation. By C. Scott, 

the Sheffield Chrysanthemum Society. In paper, price 6d., by post Id. 
Coins, a Guide to Bnglish Pattern, in Gold, Silver, Copper, and Pewter, 

from Edward I. to Victoria, with their Value. By theBET. G. F. Cbowtheb, M.A. 

Illustrated. In silver cloth, vdthgilt facsimiles of Coins, price 5s., by post 58. 3d. 

Coins of Great Britain and Ireland, a Guide to the, ^n Gold, Silver, 

and Copper, from the Earliest Period to the Present Time, with their Value. 

By the fate Colonel W. Stewart Thorburn. Third Edition. Bevised and 

Enlarged, by H. A. GRUEBER, F.S.A. Illustrated. In cloth gilt, price lOs. 6d. 

nc((, by post 10s. lOd. 
Cold Meat Cookery. A Handy Guide to making really tasty and much 

appreciated Dishes from Cold Meat. By MBS. J. E. Davidson. In paper, 

price Is., by post Is. 2d. 
ColUe, The. Its History, Points, and Breeding. By Hugh Dalziel, Illus 

trated with Coloured Frontispiece and Plates. Cloth gilt, 2s., by post 

2s id. 
Collie Stud Book. Edited by Hugh Dalziel. In cloth r/ilt, price 3s. 6d. 

each, by post 3s. 9d. dOcA. 

Vol. I., containing Pedigrees of 1308 of the best-known Dogs, traced to 

their most remote known ancestors ; Show Becord to Feb., 1890, &c. 
rol. II. Pedigrees of 795 Dogs, Show Becord, &c. 
Vol. in. Pedigrees of 786 Dogs, Show Becord, <ftc 

Conjuring, Book of Modern. A Practical Guide to Drawing-room and 
Stage Magic for Amateurs. By PROFESSOR B. KUNARD. Illustrated, h' 
illustrated wrapper, price 2s. 6d., by post 2s. 9d. 

Conjuring for Amateurs. A Practical Handbook on How to Perforir 
a Number of Amusing Tricks. By PROF. ELLIS Stakyon. In paper, price Is., bi 
post Is. 2d. 

Cookery, The £ncyclop£Bdla of Practical. A complete Dictionary of all 
pertaining to the Art of Cookery and Table Service. Edited by Theo. Francis 
Garrett, assisted by eminent Chefs de Cuisine and Confectioners. Profusely 
Illustrated with Coloured Plates and Engravings by Harold Furness, Geo 
Cruikshank, W. Munn Andrew, and others. In 2 vols., demy 4(o., halj 
morocco, cushion edges, price £3 3s.; carriage rree, £3 5s. 

Cookery for Amateurs ; or, French Dishes for Bnglish Homes of all 
Classes. Includes Simple Cookery, Middle-class Cookery, Superior Cookery, 
Cookery for Invalids, and Breakfast and Luncheon Cookery. By Madam> 
Valerie. Second Edition. In paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 

Cucumber Culture for Amateurs. Including also Melons, Vegetable Mar 
rows and Gourds. Illustrated. ByW.J.MAT. lnpaper,pricels.,bypostl8.2d 

Oyclist's Route Map of England and Wales. Shows clearly all the Main, 
and most of the Cross, Boada, Railroads, and the Distances between the 
Chie'f Towns, as well as the Mileage from London. In addition to thi>, 
Routes of Thirty of the Most Interesting Tours are printed In red- Fourtli 
Edition, thoroughly revised. The map is printed on specially prepared 
vellum paper, and is the fullest, handiest, and best up-to-date tourist's ma^< 
in the market. In cloth, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 



Published by Me. L. Upcott Gill, London. 



Dainties, English and Foreign, and How to Prepare Them. By Mrs. 
UATIDSON. In paper, price Is. , iy post Is. 2d. 

Deal^lntf, Harmonic and Keyboard. Explaining a System whereby an 
enmess Variety of Most Beautiful Designs suited to numberless Manufactures 
may be obtained by UnskUled Persons from any Printed Uuslc. Illustrated 
by Numerous Explanatory Diagrams and Illustrative Examples. By C. H. 
WILKINSON. Demy Ho, cloth gilt, price £3 3«. nett, by post £3 is. Sd. 

Dogs, Breaking and Training: Being Concise Directions for the proper 
education of Dogs, both for the Field and for Companions. Second 
Edition. By "Pathfinder." With Chapters by Hugh Dalziel. Illus- 
trated. In cloth gilt, price 6«. td., by post 6a. lOd. 

"'ft' British, Ancient and Modern: Their Varieties, History, and 
Characteristics. By Hugh Dalziel, assisted by Eminent Fanciers. 
Beautifully Illustrated with COLOURED PLATES and full-page Engravings 
of Dogs of the Day, with numerous smaller illustrations in the text. This 
18 the fullest work on the various breeds of dogs kept in England. In 
three volumes, demy 8vo, cloth gilt, price 10s. td. each, iy post lis. each. 
Vol. I. I>ogs Used in Field Sports. 

Vol. III. Practical Kennel Management: A Complete 
Treatise on all Matters relating to the Proper Management of Dogs whether 
kept for the Show Bench, for ttie Field, or for Companions. 

Vol. II. is out of print, but Vols. I. and III. can still be had as above. 

Dogs, Diseases of : Their Causes, Symptoms, and Treatment ; Modes ol 
Administering Medicines ; Treatment in cases of Poisoning, &c. For the use 
of Amateurs. By Hugh Dalziel. Fourth Edition. Entirely Re-written 
and brought up to Date. In paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d. ; in cloth gilt, 
8a., by post 2s. 3d. 

Oog-Keeplng, Popular: Being a Handy Guide to the General Management 
and Training of all Kinds of Dogs for Companions and Pets. By J. Maxibb. 
Illustrated. In paper, price Is. , by post Is. 2d. 

Egg Dainties. How to Cook Eggs, One Hundred and Fifty Different Ways, 
English and Foreign. Inpaper, price Is., by post is. 2d. 

Engravings and their Value. Containing a Dictionary of all the Greatest 
Engravers and their Works. By J. H. Slater. Third Edition, with latest 
Prices at Auction. In cloth gilt, price Ids. nett, by post, 15s. 5d. 

Entertainments, Amateur, for Charitable and other Objects : 

How to Organise and Work them with Profit and Success. By Robert 
Gahthony. In paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 

Fancy "SITork Serles^Artlstlc. A Series of Illustrated Manuals on Artistic 
ana Popular Fancy Work of various kinds. Each number is complete in 
itself, and issued at the uniform price of 6d., by post Id. Now ready — (1) 
MACRAMi Lace (Second Edition) ; (2) Patchwork ; (3) Tatting ; (1) Crewel 
Work ; (5) AppLiQui ; (6) Fancy Netting. 

Feathered Friends, Old and Neiv. Being the Experience of many years' 
Observation of the Habits of British and Foreign Cage Birds. By Da. W. 
T. Greene. Illustrated. In cloth qilt, price 5s., by post 5s. Id. 

Perns, The Book of Choice: for the Garden, Conservatory, and Stove. 
Describing the best and most striking Ferns and Selaginellas, and giving 
explicit directions for their Cultivation, the formation of Rockeries, the 
arrangement of Ferneries, iSo. By George Schneider. With numerous 
Coloured Plates and other Illustrations. In 3 vols., large post 4*o. Cloth 
gilt, price £3 3s. nett, by post £3 5s. 

Perns, Choice British. Descriptive of the most beautiful Variations from the 
common forms, and their Culture. By C. T. Druery, F.L.S. Very accurate 
PLATES, and other Illustrations. In cloth gilt, price 2s. bd., by post 
2s. 9d. 

Ferrets and Ferreting. Containing Instructions for the Breeding, Manage- 
ment, and Working of Ferrets. Second Edition, Re-written and greatly 
Enlarged. Illustrated. In paper, price bd., by post Id. 

Fertility of Eggs Certificate. These are Forms of Guarantee given by the 
Sellers to the Buyers of Eggs for Hatching, undertaking to refund value of 
any unfertile eggs, or to replace them with good ones. Very valuable to 
sellers of eggs, as they induce purchases, fn books, with counterfoils, price 
bd., by post Id. 



Practical Handbooks 



Firework Making for Amateurs. A complete, accurate and easily- 
understood work on Making Simple and High-class Fireworks. By UK. 

W H Brownb, M.A. In coloured mapper, priee 28 od., oy post iB. aa. 
Fisherman, The Practical. Dealing with the Natural Histojy, the 

Legendary Lore, the Capture of British Fresh- Water Fish and Tackle ajld 

Taekle-making. By J. H. Keene. In cloth gilt, pnce Is. bd., by post Is. lOd. 
Fish Flesh, and Fowl. When in Season, How to Select, Cook, and Serve. 

By Mahy Bakbett Brown. In paper, price Is., by post le. M. 
Foreign Birds, Favourite, for Cages and Aviaries. How to Keep them In 

Health. By W. T. Greene, M.A., M.D., F.Z.S., &c. FuUy Illustrated. In 

cloth gilt, price 2s.bd.,by post 2s. Sd. 
Fortune Telling by Cards. Describing and Illustrating the Methods usually 

followed by Persons Professing to Tell Fortunes by Cards. By J. B. Pranglby. 

Illustrated. Price Is., by post Is. 2d. 
Fox Terrier, The. Its History, Points, Breeding, Rearing, Preparing for 

Exhibition, and Coursing. By HUGH Dalziel. Second Edition, Revised 

and brought up to date by J. Maxtee (Author of " Popular Dog-Keeping "). 

Fully Illustrated. In paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d.; in cloth, -with Coloured 

Frontispiece and several extra plates, price 28. bd., by post 2a. 9d. 
Fox Terrier Stud Book. Edited by Hugh Dalziel. In cloth gilt, priee is. bd. 

each, by post is. 9d. each. 

Vol. I., containing Pedigrees of over 1400 of the best-known Dogs, traced 

to their most remote known ancestors. 
Vol. II. Pedigrees of 1544 Dogs, Show Record, &c. 
Vol. HI. Pedigrees of 1214 Dogs, Show Record, Ac. 
Vol. IV. Pedigrees of 1168 Dogs, Show Record, ffic. 
Vol. V. Pedigrees of 1662 Dogs, Show Record, &c. 
FretiBFOrk and Marquetry. A Practical Manual of Instructions in the Art 

of Fret-cutting and Marquetry Work. By D. DENNING. Profusely Illustrated. 

In cloth gilt, price 2a. bd., by post 2s. 9d. 
Friesland Meres, A Cruise on the. By Ernest R. Sdfeling. Illustrated. 

In paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 
Fruit Culture for Amateurs. By S. T. Wright. With Chapters on Insect 

and other Fruit Pests by W. D. DRURY. Second Edition. Illustrated. In 

cloth gilt, price Zs.bd., by post Zs. 9d. 
Game Preserving, Practical. Containing the fullest Directions for Rearing 

and Preserving both Winged and Ground Game, and Destroying Vermin ; 

with other Information of Value to the Game Preserver. By W. Carnegie. 

Illustrated. In cloth gilt, demy Svo, price 21s., by post 21s. 5d. 
Games, the Book of a Hundred. By Mary White. These Games are foi 

Adults, and will be found extremely serviceable for Parlour Entertainment. 

They are Clearly Explained, are Ingenious, Clever, Amusing, and exceedingly 

Novel. In stiff boards, price 2s. bd. by post 2s. 9d. 
Gardening, The Book of: A Handbook of Horticulture. By well-known 

Specialists. Edited by W. D. Drury (Author of " Home Gardening," 

"Insects Injurious to Fruit," "Popular Bulb Culture," Ac). Very fully 

Illustrated. 1 vol., demy Svo, about 1200pp., price lbs. nett, by post 17s. 
Gardening, Dictionary of. A Practical Encyclopaedia of Horticulture, for 

Amateurs and Professionals. Hlustrated vrith 2440 Engravings. Edited by 

G. KiCHOLSON, Curator of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew ; assisted by Prof. 

Trail, M.D., Rev. P. W. Myles, B.A., F.L.S., W. Watson. J. Garrett, and other 

Specialists. In il vols., largepostUo. Cloth gilt, price £i, by post £i 2s. Half 

ifiorocco, £3 5s.. by post £3 5s. 
Gardening In Egypt. A Handbook of Gardening for Lower Egypt. With a 

Calendar of Work for the different Months of the Year. By WALTER Draper. 

In cloth gilt, price 3s. 6d., by post 3s. 9d. 
Gardening, Home. A Manual for the Amateur, Containing Instructions for 

the Laying Out, Stocking, Cultivation, and Management of Small Gardens- 
Flower, Fruit, and Vegetable. By W. D. Drury, F.R.H.S. Illustrated. In 

paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d, 
Goat, Book of the. Containing Full Particulars of the Various Breeds of 

Goats, and their Profitable Management. With many Plates. By H. Stephen 

Holmes Pegler. Third Edition, with Engravings and Coloured Frontispiece. 

In cloth gilt, price 4s. bd., by post 4s. lOd. 
Goat- Keeping for Amateurs : Being the Practical Management of Goats for 

Milking E^rposes. Abridged from " The Book of the Goat." Illustrated. In 

paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 



Pttblishbi) by Mb. L. Upcott Gill, London. 7 

GraPO Oroislng for Amateurs, A Thoroughly Practical Book on Successful 
Vine Culture. ByE. Molyneux. Illustrated. In paper, price U., by post It. 2d. 

Graenhouse Management for Amateurs. The Best Qreenhouses and 
Frames, and How to Build and Heat them, Illustrated Descriptions of the 
most suitable Plants, with general and Special Cultural Directions, and all 
necessary information for the Guidance of the Amateur. By W. J. May. 
Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Magnificently Illustrated. In eloth 
gilt, price bs., by post 5s. 4d. 

Greyhound, The : Its History, Points, Breeding, Rearing, Training, and 
Running. By Hugh Dalziel. With Coloured Frontispiece. In oioa gUt, 
demy 8vo., price 28. bd., by post 28. 9d. 

Guinea Pig, The, for Food, Fur, and Fancy. Its Varieties and its Manage- 
ment. By C. Cumberland, F.Z.S. Illustrated. In paper, price U., by post 
Is, 2d. In cloth gilt, with coloured frontispiece, price 2s. bd., by post 2s. 9d. 

Handmrritlng, Character Indicated by. With Hlustrations in Support of 
the Theories advanced, taken from Autograph Letters, of Statesmen, lawyers, 
Soldiers, Ecclesiastics, Authors, Poets, Musicians, Actors, and other persons. 
Second Edition. By R. Baughan. Inclothgilt, priceZs.bd., by post 2a. %d. 

Hardy Perennials and Old-fashioned Garden Flowers. Descriptions, 
alphabetically arranged^ of the most desirable Plants for Borders, Rockeries, 
and Shrubberies, including Foliage as well as Flowering Plants. By J. Wood. 
Profusely Illustrated. In cloth gilt, price Zs. 6d., by post is. 9d. 

Hank Moths, Book of British. A Popular and Practical Manual for all 
Lepidopterists. Copiously illustrated in black and white from the Author's 
own exquisite Drawings from Nature. By W. J. Lucas, B.A. In eloth gilt, 
price 3s. bd., by post 3s. 2d. 

Home Medicine and Surgery A Dictionary of Diseases and Accidents, 
and their proper Home Treatment. For Family Use. By W. J. Mackenzie, 
M.D. Illustrated. In cloth gilt, price 2s. bd., by post 2s, 5d. 

Horse-Keeper, The Practical. By Oeobge Fleming, C.B., LL.D., 
F.B.C.V.B.. late Principal Veterinary Surgeon to the British Army, and 
Ex-President of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons. In cloth gilt, price 
is. fid., by post is. lOd. 

Horse-Keeping for Amateurs. A Practical Manual on the Management 
of Horses, for the guidance of those who keep one or two for their personal use. 
By Fox Russell. In paper, price Is. , by post Is. 2d. ; eloth gilt 2s., by post 2b. id. 

Horses, Diseases of Their Causes, Symptoms, and Treatment. For the 
use of Amateurs. By Hugh Dalziel. In paper, price Is., by postXs.2d.', 
eloth gilt 2s., by post 2b. Sd. 

Incubators and their Management. By J. H. Sutcliffe. New Edition, 
Revised and Enlarged. Illustrated. In paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 

Inland UTaterlng Places. A Description of the Spas of Oreat Britain and 
Ireland, their Mineral Waters, and tneir Medicinal Value, and the attrac- 
tions which they offer to Invalids and other Visitors. Profusely illustrated, 
A Companion Volume to " Seaside Watering Places." In cloth gilt, price 
Zs. bd., by post 2a. lOd. 

Jack All Alone. Being a Collection of Descriptive Yachting Reminiscences. 
By Fkanh CovirpER, B.A., Author of " Saihng Tours." Illustrated. In 
cloth gilt, price is. bd., by post is. lOd. 

Journalism, Practical : Bow to Enter Thereon andSucceed. A bo(^ for 
all who think of " writing for the Press." By John Dawson. In doth gilt, 
orice 2b. bd., by post 2a. %d. 

Iiace, A History of Hand-Made. By Mrs. E. Neville Jackson. 
Magnificently Illustrated. In cfoivn 4to, cloth gilt, price 18s. nett, by post 19s. 
Edition de lAiXe, on large paper, containing 12 specimens of Real Lace, in half 
Persian, price £3 3s., by post £3 4s. bd. [Nearly ready. 

Iiamrn Tennis, liessons in. A New Method of Study and Practise for 
Acquiring a Good and Sound Style of Play. With Exercises. By B. H. Miles. 
Illustrated. In paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 

Laying Hens, Hour to Keep and to Rear Chickens in Large or Small 
Numbers, in Absolute Confinement, with Perfect Success. By Major G. F. 
MORANT. In paper, price bd., by post Id. 

Cilbrary Manual, The. A Guide to the Formation of a Library, and the Values 
of Rare and Standard Books. By J. H. Slater, Barrister-at-Law. Third Edition. 
Revised and Greatly Enlarged. In cloth gilt, price 7s. bd. nett, by post Is. lOd. 

Magic Iianterns, Modern. A Guide to the Management of the Optical 
Lantern, for the Use of Entertainers, Lecturers, Photograpers, Teachers, and 
others. By R. Child Bayley. In paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 



8 Practical Handbooks 

Marqueterie Wood-Staining for Amateurs. A Practical Handbook 
to Marqueterie, Woodstaiiiing, and Kindred Arts. By Eliza Turck. Pro- 
fusely Illustrated. 1 n paper ^ price \s.^ by post \s.Zd. 

Mice, Fancy: Their Varieties, Management, and Breeding. Third Edition, 
with additional matter and Illustrations. In coloured tm-apper representing 
different varieties^ price Is., iy post Is, 2d. 

Millinery, Handbook of. A Practical Manual of Instruction for Ladies. 
lUuatrated. By Mme. Bosi^E, Court Milliner, Principal of the School of 
Millinery, In paper, price l£., iry post Is. 2d. 

Model Yachts and Boats : Their Designing, Making, and Sailing. Illustrated 
with 118 Designs and Working Diagrams. By 3. DD V. Ghostenok. In 
leatherette, price 5e., by post 5s. id. 

Monkeys, Pet, and How to Manage Them. Illustrated. By Arthur Patter- 
son. In cloth gilt, price 2s. 6d., by post 2b. 9d. 

Mountaineering, UTelsli. A Complete and Handy Guide to all the Best Roads 
and Bye-Paths by which the Tourist should Ascend the Welsh Mountains. By 
A. W. Perry. With ntunerous Maps. In cloth gilt, price 2e.bd.,by post 2s. Sd. 

Mnslirooni Culture for Amateurs. With Full Directions for Successful 
Growth in Houses, Sheds, Cellars, and Pots, on Shelves, and Out of Doors. 
By W. J. May. Illustrated. In paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 

Natural History Bketobes among the CarniTora— Wild and Domesticated ; 
with Observations on their Habits and Mental Faculties. By Arthitb 
NICOLS, F.G.S., F.R.G.S. Illustrated. Inolothgilt, price 2s. 6d., by post Zs.Sd. 

Haturallst's Directory, The, for 1900 (Sixth year of issue). Invaluable to 
all Students and Collectors. In paper, price Is. 6d. nett, by post Is. 9(2. 

Needlevrork, Dictionary of. An Encyclopaedia of Artistic, Plain, and Fancy 
Needlework ; Plain, practical, complete, and magnificently Illustrated. By 
S. r. A. Caulfeild and B. C. Saward. In demy 4(o, aZSpp, 829 Illustra- 
tions, ■ extra cloth gilt, plain edges, cushioned bevelled boards, price 21s. nett, by 
post 21s. 9d. ; with COLOURED PLATES, eUgamt satin brocade cloth binding, 
and coloured edges, 31s. 6d. nett, by post,i2s. 

Orchids: Their Culture and Management, with Descriptions of all the Kinds 
In General Cultivation. Illustrated by Coloured Plates and Engravings. By 
W. Watson, Assistant-Curator, Boyal Botanic Gardens, Kew; Assisted by 
W. Bean, Foreman, Royal Gardens, Kew. Second Edition, Revised and with 
Extra Plates. In cloth gilt and gilt edges, price £1 Is. nett, by post £1 Is. bd. 

Painters and Their l?orks, A Work of the Greatest Value to Collectors 
and such as are interested in the Art, as it gives, besides Biographical 
Sketches of all the Artists of Repute (not now living) from the 13th Century 
to the present date, the Market Value of the Principal Works Painted by 
Them, with Full Descriptions of Same. In 3 vols., cloth gilt, price 37s. bd. nett, 
by post 38s. 3d. 

Painting, Decorative. A practical Handbook on Painting and Etching upon 
Textiles, Pottery, Porcelain, Paper, Vellum, Leather, Glass, Wood, Stone, 
Metals, and Plaster, for the Decoration of our Homes. By B. C. Saward. 
In cloth gilt, price 3s. bd., by post 3s. 9d. 

Palmistry, Life Studies in. The Hands of Notable Persona read according 
to the practice of Modern Palmistry. By I. OxENFORD. Illustrated with 
Full-page Plates. In 4to, cloth gilt, price 5s., by post 5s. 4d. 

Palmistry, Modern. By L Oxenford, author of Life Studies in Palmistry. 
Numerous Original Illustrations by L. Wilki.ns. [Nearly ready. 

Parcel Post Dispatch Book (registered). An invaluable book for all whe 
send parcels by post. Provides Address Labels, Certificate of Posting, and 
Record of Parcels Dispatched. By the use of this book parcels are insured 
against loss or damage to the extent of £2. Authorised by the Post OfSce. 
Price Is., by post Is. 2d., for 100 parcels; larger sizes if required. 

Parrakeets, Popular. How to Keep and Breed Them. By Dr. W T 
Greene, M.D., M.A., F.Z.S,, Ac. Inpaper, price Is., by post. Is. 2d. 

Parrot, The Grey, and How to Treat it. By W. T. Greene, M.D., M.A., F.Z.S., 
&c. In paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 

^"'J*?J?' *'** Speaking. The Art of Keeping and Breeding the principal 
S?;ffJ?.^ Parrots in Confinement. By Dr. Karl Russ. Illustrated with 
COLOURED PLATES and Engravings. In cloth gilt, price 5s., by post 5s. Hd. 

Patience, Games of, for one or more Players, How to Play 173 different 
Games of Patience. By M. Whitmobe Jones. Illustrated. Series L, 39 
games ; Series II., 34 games ; Series III., 33 games ; Series IV., 37 games • 
Series \ ., 30 games. Each, inpaper. Is,, by post is, 2d, The five bound 
together m cloth gut, price 6s,, by post 6s, 4d, 



Published by Mk. L. Upcott Gill, London. 9 



Patience Cards, for Games of. Two dainty Packs (23iii. bv 2in.) for 
playing the Various Games of Patience, in Case. They are of the'best make 
and finish, and of a very pretty and convenient size. Price 2s. bd., by post 2s. 9d. 

Pedigree Record, The. Being Part I. of "The Breeders and Exhibitors 
Eecord," for the Eegistration of Particulars concerning Pedigrees of Stock of 
every Description. By \V. K. Taunton. In etoth gilt, price 2». bd., by poet 
as. 9d. 

PeiBpectlve, The Essentials of. With numerous Illustrations drawn by 
the Author. By L. W. MiLLEK, Principal of the School of Industrial Art of 
the Pennsylvania Museum, Philadelphia. Price 68. bd., by post 6s. lOd. 

Pheasant-Keeping for Amateurs. A Practical Handbook on the Breed- 
ing, Beating, and Oeneral Management of Fancy Pheasants in Confinement. 
By Geo. HORNE. Fully Illustrated. In cloth gilt, price 3«. bd., !ii/ post 
35. 9d. 

Photographic Printing Processes, Popular. A Practical Guide to 
Printing with Gelatino-Chloride, Artigue, Platinotype, Carbon, Bromide, 
CoUodio-Chloride, Bichromated Gum, and other Sensitised Papers. By H. 
Macx,kan, F.E.P.S. Illustrated. In cloth gilt, price 2s. bd, bg post 2s. lOd. 

Photography (Modern) for Amateurs. Fourth Edition. Revised and 
Enlarged. By J. Eaton Fearn. In paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 

Pioture-Frame Making for Amateurs. Being Practical Instructions 
in the Making of various kinds of Frames for Paintings, Drawings, Photo- 
graphs, and Engravings. By the Ret. J. Ldkin. Illustrated. In paper, 
price Is., by post Is 2d. 

Pigs Book of the. The Selection, Breeding, Feeding, and Management of the 
Pig ; the Treatment of its Diseases ; the Curing and Preserving of Hams, 
Bacon, and other Pork Foods ; and other information appertaining to Pork 
Farming. By Professor James Long. Fully Illustrated with Portraits 
of Prize Pigs, Plans of Model Piggeries, &c. In cloth gilt, price Ws. bd., by 
poet 10s. lis. 

Plg-Keeplng, Practical: A Manual for Amateurs, based on personal 
Experience in Breeding, Feeding, and Fattening ; also in Buying and Selling 
Pigs at Market Prices. By K. D. Garratt. In paper, price Is., by post 
Is. 2d. 

Pigeons, Fancy. Containing full Directions for the Breeding and Manage- 
ment of Fancy Pigeons, and Descriptions of every known Variety, together 
with all other information of interest or use to Pigeon Fanciers. Third 
Edition. 18 COLOURED PLATES, and 22 other full-page Illustrations. By 
J. C. Lyell. In cloth gilt, price 10s. bd., by post 10s. lOd. 

Pigeon-Keeping for Amateurs. A Complete Guide to the Amateur 
Breeder of Domestic and Fancy Pigeons. By J. C- Lyell. Illustrated. 
In cloth gilt, price 2a. bd., lyy post 2s. 9d. ; in paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 

Polishes and Stains for ISrood: A Complete Guide to Polishing Wood- 
work, with Directions for Staining, and Full information for Making the 
Stains, Polishes, &c., in the simplest and most satisfactory manner. By 
David Denning. In paper. Is., by post Is. 2d. 

Pool, Games of. Describing Various English and American Pool Games, and 
giving the Rules in full. Illustrated In paper, price Is., hy post Is. 2d. 

Portraiture, Home, for Amateur Photographers. Being the result of many 
years' incessant work in the production of Portraits ** at home." By Richard 
Penlake. Fully Illustrated. In cloth gilt, price 2s. bd., by post 2s. 9d- 

Postage Stamps, and their Collection. A Practical Handbook for Collectors 
of Postal Stamps, Envelopes, Wrappers, and Cards. By Oliver Firth, 
Member of the Philatelic Societies of London, Leeds, and Bradford. Pro- 
fusely Illustrated. In cloth gilt, price 3s. bd., by post 3s. lOd. 

Postage Stamps of Europe, The Adhesive: A Practical Guide to their 
Collection, Identification, and Classification. Especially designed for the use 
of those commencing the Study. By W. A. S. Westoby. Beautifully 
Illustrated. In 2 vols., price 15s. nett, by post 15s. bd. (Vol. I., A-I ; Vol. II. 
■I-Z.) 

Postmarks, History of British. With 350 Illustrations and a List of Numbers 
need in Obliterations. By J. H. Daniels. In cloth gilt, price 2s. bd. nett, by 
post 2s. 9(2. 

Pottery and Porcelain, English. A Guide for Collectors. Handsomely 
Illustrated with Engravings of Specimen Pieces and the Marks used hy the 
different Makers. New Edition, Revised and Enlarged. By the Rev. k. A 
DOWNM.AN. In cloth gilt, price 5s. nett, by post 5s. 3rf. 



10 Pkactical Handbooks 

Poultry-Farming, Profitable. Describing in Detail the Methods that Give 
the Best Results, and pointing out the Mistakes to be Avoided. By J. H. 
SUTCLIFFE. Illustrated. In papery price Is., by post Is. Zd. 

Poultry-Keeping, Popular. A Practical and Complete Guide to Breeding 
and Keeping Poultry for Eggs or for the Table. By F. A. Mackenzie. Illus 
trated. In paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 

Poultry for Prizes and Profit. Contains : Breeding Poultry for Prizes, 
Exhibition Poultry and Management of the Poultry Yard. Handsomely Dins 
trated. Second Edition. By PROF. James Long. In cloth gilt, price is. bd. 
by post 2s. lOd. 

Babbit, Book of The. A Complete Work on Breeding and Bearing all Varletiea 
of Fancy Babbits, giving their History, Variations, Uses, Points, Selection. 
Mating, Management, Ac, &o. SECOND EDITION. Edited by Kempstkb 
W. Knight. Illustrated with Coloured and other Plates. In cloth gUt, price 
10s. 6d., by post Ws. lid. 

Rabbits, Diseases of : Their Causes, Symptoms, and Cure. With a Chapter 
on The Diseases of Cavies. Eeprinted from " The Book of the Babbit" and 
"The Guinea Pig for Food, Fur, and Fancy." In paper, price Is., by post 
Is. 2d. 

Rabbits for Prizes and Profit. The Proper Management of Fancy Rabbits 
in Health and Disease, for Pets or the Market, and Descriptions of every 
known Variety, with Instructions for Breeding Good Specimens. By Charles 
Rayson. Illustrated. In cloth gilt, price 2s. 6d., by post 2s. 9d. Also In 
Sections, aa follows : 

General Management of Rabbits, Including Hutches, Breeding, 
Feeding, Diseases and their Treatment, Babbit Courts, die. Fully Illustrated. 
In paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 

Exhibition Rabbits, Being descriptions of all Varieties of Fancy 
Babbits, their Points of Excellence, and how to obtain them. Illustrated. In 
paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d 

Road Charts (Registered). For Army Men, Volunteers, Cyclists, and other 
Road Users. By S. W. H. DixoN and A. B. H. Clerke. No. 1.— London 
to Brighton. Price 2d., by post 2Jd. 

Roses for Amateurs. A Practical Guide to the Selection and Cultivation of 

the best Roses. Illustrated. By the Rev. J. Honywood D'Ombbain, Hon, 

Sec. Nat. Rose Soc. In paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 
Balling Guide to the Solent and Poole Harbour, with Practical Hinta 

as to Living and Cooking on, and Working a Small Yacht. By Lieut.-Col. 

T. G. Cothell. Illustrated with Coloured Charts. In cloth gilt, price 2t. bd., 

by post 2s. Sd. 

Balling Tours. The Yachtman's Guide to the Cruising Waters of the English 
and Adjacent Coasts. With Descriptions ol every Creek, Harbour, and IU>ad 
stead on the Course. With numerous Charts printed in Colours, showing Deep 
water. Shoals, and Sands exposed at low water, with sounding. By Frank 
COWPER, B.A. In Crovm 8t)o., cloth gilt. 

Vol. I., the Coasts of Essex and Suffolk, from the Thames to Aldborongh. 
Six Charts. Price 5s., by post 5s. id. 

Vol. II. The South Coast, from the Thames to the Scilly Islands, twenty- 
five Charts. New and Revised Edition. Price Is. 6d., by post Is. lOd. 

Vol. III. The Coast of Brittany, from L'Abervrach to St. Nazaire, and 
an Account ol the Loire. Twelve Charts. Price 7s. 6d., by post Is. lOd. 

Vol. IV. The West Coast, from Land's End to Mull of Galloway, in- 
cludmg the East Coast of Ireland. Thirty Charts. Price 10s. 6d., by postlOe.VM. 

Vol. V. The Coasts of Scotland and the N. B. of England down t» Aid 
borough. Forty Charts. Price 10s. bd., by post IDs. lOd. 
8t-,^ernard, The. Its History, Points, Breeding, and Rearing. By Hugh 
Dalziel. Hlustrated with Coloured Frontispiece and Plates. In doth gilt 
price 28. 6d., by post 2s. 9d. 

Bt. Bernard Stud Book. Edited by Hugh Dalziel. In cloth gilt, price 
3s. bd. each, by post 3s. Sd. each. 

Vol. I. Pedigrees of 1278 of the best known Dogs traced to their moat 
remote known ancestors. Show Record, &c. 

Vol. IT. Pedigrees of 564 Dogs, Show Record, &c. 



Published by Mk. L. Upcott Gill, London. 11 

Sea-Flshlng for Amateurs. Practical Inatructions to Visitors at Seaside 
Places for Catching Sea-Fish from Pier-heads, Shore, or Boats, principally by 
means of Hand Lines, with a very useful List of Fishing Stations, the Fish to 
be caught there, and the Best Seasons. By Frank Hudson. Illustrated. In 
payer ^ price le., by post Is. 2d. 

Sea-Iiife, Realities of. Describing the Duties, Prospects, and Pleasures of 
a Young Sailor in the Mercantile Marine. By H. E. Acraman Coate. With 
a Preface by J. R. Diqqle, M.A., M.L.S.B. In oloth gilt, price is. 6(1., 
hy post ie. IQd. >-- 1 

Seaside Watering Places. A Description of the Holiday Resorts on the 
Coasts of England and Wales, the Channel Islands, and the Isle of Man, 

g'lving full particulars of them and their attractions, and all information 
kely to assist i>ersonB in selecting places in which to spend their Holidays 
according to their IndiTldual tastes. Illustrated. Twenty-third Year of 
Issue. In oloth gilt, price 28. bd., by post 28, lOd. 

Sea Terms, a Dictionary of. For the use of Yachtsmen, Amateur Boat- 
men, and Beginners. By A. AN9IED. Fully Illustrated. In cloth gilt, price 
Is. bd. nett, by post 7s. lid. 

Shadow Bntertainments, and How to Work them : being Something about 
Shadows, and the way to make them Profitable and Funny. By A. Fattbb- 
30K. Illustrated. In paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 

Shave, An Easy : The Mysteries, Secrets, and Whole Art of, laid bare. 
Edited by Joseph Morton. Price Is., by post is. 2d. 

Sheep Raising and Shepherding. A Handbook of Sheep Farming. By 
W. J. Malden, Principal of the Agricultural College, Uckfleld. Illustrated. 
Cloth gilt, price 3s. 6d., by post is. 2d. 

Sheet Hetal, isrorking In : Being Practical Instructions for Making and 
Mending Small Articles in Tin, Copper, Iron, Zinc, and Brass. By the Bev. 
.T. LuKiN, B.A. Illustrated. Third Edition. In paper, price Is., by post 
U Id. 

Show Record, The. Being Part III. of "The Breeders' and Exhibitors' 
Record," for the Registration of Particulars concerning the Exhibition of 
Pedigree stock of every Description. By W. K. Tahnton. In cloth gilt, price 
2s. bd., by post 2s. 9d. 

Skating Cards : An Easy Method of Learning Figure Skating, as the Cards 
can be used on the Ice. In cloth case, price 2s. bd., by post 2s. 9(2. ; 
leather, price 3s. bd., by post 3s. 9(f. A cheap form is issued prmted on paper 
and made up as a small book, price Is., by post Is. Id. 

Sleight of Hand. A Practical Manual of Legerdemain for Amateurs and 
Others. New Edition, Revised and Enlarged Profusely Illustrated. By 
E. Sachs. In cloth gilt, price 6s. bd., by post 6s. 10(2. 

Solo IVhist. Its Whys and Wherefores. A Progressive and Clear Method 
of Explanation and Illustration of the Game, and how to Play it Successfully. 
With Illustrative Hands printed in Colour. By C. J. MELROSE. In cloth 
gilt, price Ss. bd., by post 3s. 10(2. 

Sporting Books, Illustrated. A Descriptive Survey of a Collection of 
English Illustrated Works of a Sporting and Racy Character, with an 
Appendix of Prints relating to Sports of the Field. The whole valued by 
reference to Average Auction Prices. By J. H. Slater, Author of "Library 
Manual," "Engravings and Their Value," &c. In cloth gilt, price Is. 6(2. 
nett, by post Is. 10(2. 

Stud Record, The. Being Part IL of "The Breeders' and Exhibitors' 
Record," for the Registration of Particulars concerning Pedigree Stock of every 
Description. By W. K. Taunton. In cloth gilt, price 2s. bd., by post 2s. 9(2. 

Taxidermy, Practical. A Manual of Instruction to the Amateur in Collect- 

tUr'Tng, Preserving, and Setting-up Natural History Specimens of all kinds. With 

' Examples and Working Diagrams. By Montagu Browne, F.Z.S., Curator of 

SiC,' Leicester Museum. Second Edition. In cloth gilt, price la. bd., by post Is. 10(2. 

Thames Guide Book. From Lechlade to Richmond. For Boating Men, 
Anglers, Picnic Parties, and all Pleasure-seekers on the River. Arranged on 
an entirely new plan. Second Edition, profusely Illustrated. In paper, pnoe 
Is., by post Is. 2(2. 



12 Practical Handbooks 



Tomato and Fruit Growing as an Industry for Women. Lectures given 
at the Forestry Exhibition, Earl's Court, during July and August, 1893. By 
Grace Harriman, Practical Fruit Grower and County Council Lecturer. In 
. paper, priee Is., by post Is. Id. 

Tomato Culture for Amateurs. A Practical and very Complete Manual <hi 
the subject. ByB.C. Ravenscroft. Illustrated. In paper, price le., bypostle.ld. 

Trapping, Practical : Being some Papers on Traps and Trapping for 
Vermin, with a Chapter on General Bird Trapping and Snaring. By W. 
Carnegie. In paper, price Is., by poet Is. 2d. 

Turning I^atlies. A Manual for Technical Schools and Apprentices. A Guide 
to Turning, Screw-cutting, Metal-spinning, &c. Edited by James Lukin, B.A. 
Third Edition. With 194 Illustrations. In cloth gilt, price 3s., by post 3d. 38. 

Vamp, Honv to. A Practical Guide to the Accompaniment of Songs by the 
Unskilled Musician. With Examples. In paper, price Sd., by post lOd. 

Vegetable Culture for Amateurs. Containing Concise Directions for the 

Cultivation of Vegetables in small Gardens so as to insure Good Crops. 

With Lists of the Beat Varieties of each Sort. By W. J. Mat Illustrated. 

In paper, price Is. , by post Is. 2d. 
Ventriloquism, Practical. A thoroughly reliable Guide to the Art of 

Voice Throwing and Vocal Mimicry, Vocal Instrumentation, Ventriloquial . 

Figures, Entertaining, Ac. By Robert Ganthont. Numerous Illustrations. 

In cloth gilt, price 2s. bd., by post 2s. 9d. 

Violins (Old) and tlieir Makers : Including some References to those of 
Modem Times. By James M. Fleming. Illustrated with Facsimiles of 
Tickets, Sound-Holes, Ac. In cloth gilt, price ts. 6d. neit, by post ts. lOd. 

Violin School, Practical, for Home Students. Instructions and Exercises 
in Violin Playing, for the use of Amateurs, Self-learners, Teaebers, and 
others. With a Supplement on "Easy Legato Studies for the Violin." 
By J. M. Fleming. Demy 4(o, cloth gilt, price 9s. 6d., by post 10s. 2d. 
Without Supplement, price 7s. bd. , by post Ss. 

Vivarium, The. Being a Full Description of the most Interesting Snakes, 
Lizards, and other Reptiles, and How to Keep Them Satisfactorily In Con- 
finement. By Rev. G. C. Bateman. Beautifully Illustrated. In cloth gilt, 
price 7s. 6d. nett, by poet 8s. 

War Medals and Decorations. A Manual for Collectors, with some 
account of Civil Rewards for Valour. By D. Hastings Irwin. Revised 
and Enlarged Edition. Beautifully Illustrated. In cloth gilt, price 12s. bd. 
nett, by post 12s. lOd. 

Whippet and Race-Dog, The : How to Breed, Rear, Train, Race, and 
Bxmbit the Whippet, the Management of Raee Meetings, and Original Plans 
of Courses. By Freeman Lloyd. In cloth gilt, price is, 6d., by post 3s. lOd. 

Whist, Scientific : Its Whys and Wherefores. Wherein all Arbitrary Dicta of 
Authority are eliminated , the Reader being taken step by step through the 
Reasoning Operations upon which the Rules of Play are based. By C. J. 
Melrose, With Illustrative Hands printed in Colour. In cloth gilt, price 6s., 
by post 6s. 6d. 

Wild Birds, Cries and Call Notes of. Described at Length, and in many 
instances Illustrated by Musical Notation. By C. A. Witchell. In paper, 
price Is., by post Is. 2d. 

tf lldfowling, Practical: A Book on Wildfowl and Wildfowl Shooting. By 
Ht. Sharp. The result of 25 years experience Wildfowl Shooting under 
all sorts of conditions of locality as well as circumstances. Profusely Dlus* 
trated. Demy Bvo, cloth gilt, price 12s. bd. nett, by post 12s. lOd. 

WUd Sports in Ireland. Being Picturesque and Entertaining Descriptions 
of several visits paid to Ireland, with Practical Hints likely to be of service 
to the Airier, Wildfowler, and Yachtsman. By John Bickerdtke, Author 
of "The Book of the All-Round Angler," &c. Beautifully Illustrated from 
Photographs taken by the Author. In cloth giU, price bs., by poet bs. 4d. 

Wlndov Ticket Writing. Containing full Instructions on the Method of 
Mixing and Using the Various Inks, &c., required, Hints on Stencilling as 
applied to Ticket Writing, together with Lessons on Glass Writing, Japanning 
on Tin, &c. Especially written for the use of Learners and Shop Assistants. 
By Wm. C. Scott. In paper, price Is., by post Is. 2d. 



Published by Mb. L. Upcott Gill, London. l:i 



*^* ."?? Sheet Gauges of the World. Compared and Compiled bj 
C. A. B. Pfeilschmidt, of Sheffield. In paper, price U., by post U. Id. 

"^"SS Carving for Amateurs. Pull Instructions for producing all the 
different varieties of Carvmgs. SECOND EDITION. Edited by D. Dbnninq 
In paper, price Is., by poet Is. 2d. 

Workshop Makeshifts. Being a Collection of Practical Hints and 
Suggestions for the use of Amateur Workers in Wood and Metal Bv 
H. J. S. CiSSALL. FuUy Illustrated. In cloth gilt, price 2s. 5d., by post 2a. dd 




THE 1893 EDITION OF 

Seaside Watering Places 

(23rd YEAR OF PUBLICATION). 

A Description of over 250 Holiday Resorts on the Costs of 
England and Wales, the Isle of Wight, the Channel Islands, 
and the Isle of Man, including the gayest and most quiet 
places, giving full particulars of them and their attractions, 
and all other information likely to assist persons in selecting 
places in which to spend their Holidays according to their 
individual tastes ; with Business Directory of Tradesmen, so 
that Visitors can send orders in advance of their arrival. 

Corrections, Directory Annjuncements, and Adver- 
tisements for the 1900 Edition should now be sent in. 



PROSPECTUSBS FREE ON APPLICATION. 

London: L. Upcott Gill, 170, Strand, W.C. 

p. T. 0. 



A Supplement s,„ZiTbo»i,, 
NICHOLSON'S 

Dictionary of 
Gardening, 

Is in preparation, bringing this great work on the Art and 
Practice of Horticulture right up to date. This is the finest 
work on Gardening at present existing, and the Supplement 
— which is magnificently illustrated — will make it the newest. 



It is expected that the first portion will be ready 
at an early date. 



In Preparation. 



The Sea Services. 

A Guide to the Royal Navy and Mercantile Marine, 

INCLUDING 

PILOT, COASTGUARD, LIFEBOAT, LIGHTSHIP, 
WATER POLICE, AND CUSTOMS SERVICE. 



By A. COWIE. 



NEARLY READY. 



A Histor\J of . . 

. . Hand^/Vlddc Igace. 

By Mrs. E. NEVILLE JACKSON. 

MAGNIFICENTLY ILLUSTRATED. 



LONDON 

L UPCOTT GILL, 170, STRAND, W.G. 



PUBLISHED BY E. and F. N. SPON, Ltd. 



Foolscap 8vo, leather cloth, 2s. 6d. 

Quick and Easy Methods of Calculating. A Simple Ex- 
planation of the Theory and TJae of the Slide-Bule, Logarithms, &o., with 
numerous Examples worked out. By E. G. Blaine, Assoc. Mem. Inat. 
C.E., Author of " Hydraulic Machinery," &c. 

Twelfth Edition, 64mo roan, gilt edges, Is. Waistcoat pocket size. 

Spons' Tables and Memoranda for Engineers. By J. t. 

HuKST, C.B. (Late Surveyor War Department), &o. Author of " Hurst's 
Tredgold's Carpentry," " Architectural Surveyor's Hand Book," &8. Also 
in celluloid case. Is. 6d. 

64mo roan, gilt edges, la. Waistcoat pocket sine. 

Electrical Tables and Memoranda. By Silvanus p. 

Thompson, D.Sc, B.A., E.E.S., &c., and Eustace Thomas. 
With Illustrations, crown 8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d. 

Magnets and Electric Currents. An Elementary Treatise for 
the Use of Electrical Artisans and Science Teachers. By Professor 

J. A. Flbming, D.Sc, F.B.S. 

Fourth Edition, demy 8vo, cloth, 6b. 

Spons' Mechanics' Own Book. A Manual for Handicraftsmen 
and Amateurs. Containing 700 pages, and 1420 Illustrations. Also in 
handsome French Morocco binding, 7s. 6d. 

Eoyal 8vo, cloth, 12s. 6d. 

Art of Coppersmithing. A practical Treatise for working Sheet 
Copper into all forms. By John Fullbe, Sen. Numerous engravings 

illustrating every hranch of the art. 

Fourth Edition, 4to, cloth, IBs. 

The Mechanician, a Treatise on the Construction and Manipulation of 
Tools, for the Use and Instruction of young Engineers and Scientific 
Amateurs. Comprising the Arts of Blaoksmithing and Forging ; the Con- 
struction and Manufacture of Hand Toola, and the various Methods of 
Using and Grinding them ; the Construction of Machine Tools, and how to 
work them ; Turning and Screw-Cutting ; the various details of setting-out 
work, &c. By Cameron Knight, Engineer. 96 4to plates, containing 
1147 iUuatrations, and 397 pages of letterpress. 

Fourth Edition, 8vo, cloth, 4s. 6d. 

Bicycle Repairing. A Manual compiled from Articles in the "Iron 

Age," by S. D. V. BuER. 208 pages, with over 200 illus trations. 

Third Edition, considerably enlarged. 8vo, cloth. Illustrated, 9s. 

Metal Plate Work : its Patterns and their Geometry, also Notes on 
Metals and Eules.in Mensuration for the Use of Tin, Iron, and Zinc-plate 
Workers, Coppersmiths, Boiler-makers, Plumbers, and others. By C. T. 
MiLLis, M.I.M.E., Examiner' in Metal Plate Work to the City and Guilds 
of London Institute, &c. 



CATALOGUE POST FREE ON APPLICATION' 



LONDON : E. & F. N. SPON LTD., 125, STRAND, 

AND OF ALL BOOKSBLLEES. 



DOG SOAP 



MADE BY 



SPRATT'S 

PATENT 

LIMITED. 

A NON-POISONOUS PREPARATION. 

Invaluable for Preparing the Coat for Exhibition. 

SOLD IN TABLETS. 



DOG MEDICINES. 



AlteratiTe Cooling Powders 

Aperient Tastelesa Biaonits 

Chronic Skin Diaeaae Cure 

Congh pais 

Chemical Pood 

Chorea Pilla (St. Vitus' Danee) 

Diarrhoea Mixture 

Distemper Powders 

Distemper Pills 

Disinfectant for Kennels 

Ear Canker Lotion 

Eczema Lotion 

Eye Lotion 

Hair Stimulant 



Jaundice or " Yellows " Pills 

Locurium Oil (Patent) for Anima 
Use 

Locurium Oil (Patent) for 
Human Use (including Govern- 
ment Stamp) 

Mange Lotion 

Purging Pills 

Rheumatic and Sprain Liniment 

Kheumatio and Chest Founder Pills 

Tonic Condition Pills 

Vegetable Puppy Vermifuge 

Worm Powders 

"Worm Pilla 



YOUR TRADESMAN OR STORES WILL SUPPLY YOU. 

Spratt's Patent Limited, Bermondsey, London, S.E, 

PAMPHLET ON CANINE DISEASES, POST FREE. 




^BARGAINS 
PRIVATE SALES 

Read the 






AT All newsagents & Bookstalls. 





■ COLMAN'S 

D. SE MUSTARD 

'SEE THAT COLMAN'S NAME ISONtfiETlN- 




COLMAN'S 



^u 




FOR MAKING 4J3. CAKES. PUDDINGS.' 
BREAD. PASTRY, >-k SCONES &c.&c. 







