
e 3&) What to €be& ; 
mi How to Obofe K 



MR.* ?A l ccs-core 



LIBRARY OF rt CONGRESS. 



jT^ 



Chap..! Copyright No. 

Sheit-iV/.! 



,C*8 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



A 



^ 




A FRIEND IN THE 
KITCHEN: 

OR 

What to Cook and How to Cook It. 



CONTAINING 



About 400 Choice Recipes Carefully Tested; 



TOGHTHKR WITH 



Plain Directions on Healthful Cookery; How to Can Fruit; A Week's Menu; 
Proper Food Combinations; Rules for Dyspeptics; Food for Infants; 
Simple Dishes for the Sick; Wholesome Drinks; Useful 
Tables on Nutritive Values of Foods, Time re- 
quired to Digest Foods, Weights 
rand Measures for the 
Kitchen, etc. 

^^ 

1 / 

By Mrs. Anna L,. Cojxord. 



There is religion in a good loaf of bread.'''' 

"Bad Cooking- diminishes happiness and shortens life.' 1 '' 



PACIFIC PRESS PUBLISHING COMPANY, 

OAKLAND, CAI,. 

San Francisco, New York, Kansas City. 



■b 



A 



A v * 



t» 



4S8.:3 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1899, by 

Mrs. Anna L. Colcord, 

In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, Washington, D. C. All rights reserved. 



TWO COPIES RECEIVED 





PACIFIC PRESS PUBLISHING COMPANY, 
Printers, Bookbinders, Electrotypers, Stereotypers. 



SECOND COPY^ 



nonn^ 



o;g<3 



Preface* 



The object of this work is to furnish in an inexpensive 
and convenient form, plain directions on healthful cookery. 
Special attention has been given to the idea of presenting 
such recipes as will tend to make the living of the family 
what it should be, — simple, economical, wholesome, nutri- 
tious, palatable, and varied. 

The housewife is often perplexed to know just what to 
cook; but if she has at hand something which will suggest 
to her what she desires but cannot think of, she has that 
which is indeed a friend. 

The author has tried to make the work sufficiently 
comprehensive to answer the demands of an ordinal 
household. 

The recipes for the preparation of grains, fruits, and 
vegetables occupy a large portion of the work. Cream is 
mentioned in a number of the recipes, but while its use is to 
be preferred instead of butter, especially if sterilized, sub- 
stitutes have generally been suggested where it is not at 
hand or available. 

Pains have been taken to make the recipes plain and 
explicit, and yet as brief as possible consistent with these 
ends. The amount of the various ingredients required 
has generally been indicated by measure, rather than by 
weight, as this is usually more convenient and time- 
saving. 

It is hoped that this little work will be found to be a 
real friend in the kitchen. That it may be such, and that 
it may prove a blessing to thousands in many lands, is the 
sincere wish of— Thk Author. 

[3] 



Contents. 



PAGE. 

Importance of Good Cooking 9 

Helpful Hints for the Housewife 12 

Soups 13 

Cereals 19 

Toasts 25 

Breads 28 

Fruits 41 

Vegetables 53 

Substitutes for Meats . , 67 

Eggs 74 

Omelets 76 

Puddings 77 

Custards and Creams 84 

Sauces 87 

Pies 9° 

Cakes 97 

Wholesome Drinks .102 

Specially Prepared Health Foods . ... 105 

Simple Dishes for the Sick no 

Food for Infants 114 

Miscellaneous , 115 

A Week's Menu 120 

Sabbath Dinners 121 

Food Combinations . . . . . . . .122 

Time Required to Digest Various Foods . . .122 

Nutritive Value of Foods 123 

How to Become a Vegetarian . . . . . .124 

Rules for Dyspeptics 125 

The Pulse in Health 126 

Weights and Measures for the Kitchen 126 

Households Hints 126 

Index 127 

[5] 



Illustrations* 



PAGE. 

Frontispiece 

Double Boiler 20 

Wall Rack 23 

Ancient Flour-Making 24 

Flour Sieve 32 

Baking Pan .... 32 

Steamed Bread Pan 33 

Gem Irons 34 

Cake Cutter 37 

Waffle Iron 38 

Griddle 39 

Gathering Fruit 4° 

Fruit Dish 42 

Large Spoon 46 

Mason Can 48 

Utensils for Canning Fruit 49 

A Wise Choice . 5 2 

Some Staple Vegetables 54 

Saucepan 56 

Potato Masher 57 

Colander 59 

Can Opener 59 

Sweet Corn ... 66 

Patty Pan 75 

Pie Dish 9° 

Rolling Pin 9 1 

Pie • .91 

Dover Egg-Beater 97 

Cake Pan 98 

Coffee Strainer 102 

Coffee Mill io 3 

Lemon Drill io 3 

Bread Knife Il8 

[7] 



«,?* t£* e<5* 



PRACTICAL 'OLOGIES. 



Daughter. — " Yes, I've graduated, but now I must inform my- 
self in psychology, philology, bibli — " 

Practical Mother. — " Stop right where you are; I have arranged 
for you a thorough course in 'roastology,' 'boilology,' 'stitchology,' 
' darnology,' ' patchology,' and general domestic ' hustleology.' 
Now get on your working clothes. ' ' — Detroit Free Press. 

t£r* t£T* t^* 




^^^I^ii'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

ao& How*To)CooK ft d 



IMPORTANCE OF GOOD COOKING* 



HEALTHFUL cookery is not receiving the attention 
which its importance demands. Although we are 
living at a time when eating and drinking are carried 
to excess, and when elaborate bills of fare are frequently 
placed before us, yet plain, simple, and healthful cookery 
occupies but a comparatively small place in the culinary 
world to-day. 

Good food is of primary importance. We live upon 
what we eat. It is not sufficient, however, merely to 
select good food. To be well digested and thoroughly 
assimilated the food must be properly prepared. The best 
food may be spoiled in cooking. The kind of food upon 
which we live, and the manner in which it is prepared, 
determines largely our physical well-being, and conse- 
quently much of our happiness or misery in this life. 

" For love, nor honor, wealth nor power, 
Can give the heart a cheerful hour 
When health is lost. Be timely wise; 
With health all taste of pleasure flies." 

Moreover, the mind is affected by the condition of the 
body, and the morals by the state of the mind. As, 
therefore, cooking determines to a large degree the con- 
dition of the body, it must also affect to a considerable 

[9] 



IO A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

extent our moral and spiritual welfare. It is not too 
much to say, therefore, that there is religion in good 
cooking. 

It has been truly said that " the cook fills an impor- 
tant place in the household. She is preparing food to be 
taken into the stomach, to form brain, bone and muscle. 
The health of all the members of the family depends 
largely upon her skill and intelligence." As the lives of 
those on a steamship are in the hands of the helmsman, so 
the lives and the health of the members of the family are, 
to a great degree, in the hands of the one who prepares 
their meals. 

Thousands are dying annually as the result of poor 
cooking. Food poorly prepared is not nutritious, and 
cannot, therefore, make good blood. 

Some may say they have no natural ability to cook; 
but anyone having ordinary intelligence, with a little 
effort, care, and proper directions, can learn to cook well. 
And surely the health of the family ought to be of suffi- 
cient importance to inspire every mother with ambition to 
learn how to cook. 

Mothers should also teach their daughters the mysteries 
of good cooking. They should show them that this is an 
essential part of their education, — more essential than the 
study of music, fancy work, the dead languages, or the 
sciences. The knowledge of these latter without the 
knowledge of how to care for the body and provide it with 
suitable nourishment, is of little worth. Meredith hit 
upon a great truth when he said: — 

" We may live without music, poetry, and art; 

We may live without conscience, and live without heart, 
We may live without friends; we may live without books; 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks." 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. II 

No young woman should contemplate marriage until 
she has first acquired a practical knowledge of simple 
cookery, for this is essential whether she expects to do 
the cooking herself, or supervise the maid. Although 
bread is the staff of life, it is a sad fact that a large pro- 
portion of the daughters of the present generation do not 
know how to make a good loaf of bread. They have not 
been instructed in the useful art of cookery, so that when 
they have families of their own they can provide for their 
tables a well-cooked dinner, prepared with nicety, so that 
they would not blush to place it before their most esteemed 
friends. 

There has never been an age so noted for dyspeptics as 
the present, and there was perhaps never before a time 
when there was a greater scarcity of good cooks. 

" Though we boast of modern progress as aloft we proudly soar, 
Above untutored cannibals whose habits we deplore, 
Yet in our daily papers any day you chance to look 
You may find this advertisement: ' Wanted — A Girl to Cook.' ' ' 

Good cooking does not consist in the preparation of 
highly seasoned foods to pamper a perverted appetite, but 
in cooking with simplicity, variety, and skill natural foods 
in a palatable and wholesome manner. To assist in this 
direction is the object of this little work. 

But no workman can work without materials and 
tools. The necessary materials for cooking are indicated 
in the recipes given in this book. Illustrations of many 
of the most necessary and useful cooking utensils will be 
found scattered throughout the work. 

A very convenient and easily constructed wall rack, 
which may be placed over the kitchen work table, is 
shown on page 23. 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 



HELPFUL HINTS FOR THE HOUSEWIFE. 

Plain and healthful living tends to long and happy living. — 
Selected. 

Simple diet is best; for many dishes bring many diseases. — 
Pliny. 

Thk foundation of a happy home is laid in the kitchen. — 
Marion Harland. 

The mother should study to set a simple yet nutritious diet 
before her family. — Mrs. E. G. White. 

A wrong course of eating or drinking destroys health, and 
with it the sweetness of life.— Christian Temperance. 

There are some tombstones upon which the inscription might 
very properly be written, " He died a victim to poor cooking." — 
Willard Allen Col cord. 

How many homes are cursed by discomfort and ill-health, hard 
thoughts and bitter words, simply because the wife does not know 
how to cook. — The Young Woman. 

A little girl who, when having her Scripture lesson, was 
asked by her sister Ruth, "Why did God make Eve ? " replied, 
" To cook for Adam, o' course." — Christian World. 

Bad cooking is waste — waste of money and loss of comfort. 
Whom God has joined in matrimony, ill-cooked joints and ill- 
boiled potatoes have very often put asunder. — Samuel Smiles. 

The stomach is the kitchen of the soul; therefore it is very im- 
portant that the fuel which feeds the stomach should be of good 
quality, and prepared in the best manner. — Martin Luther. 

In giving your children lessons in physiology, and teaching 
them how to cook with simplicity and yet with skill, you are lay- 
ing the foundation for the most useful branches of education. — 
Exercise and Air. 

What does cookery mean?— It means the knowledge of all 
fruits and herbs and balms and spices, it means carefulness, and 
inventiveness, and watchfulness, and willingness, and readiness of 
appliance; it means the economy of your grandmothers and the 
science of the modern chemist; it means much tasting and no 
wasting.—; John Ruskin. 




O hour of all hours, the most pleasant on earth, 
Happy hour of our dinners ! — Meredith. 



Soup rejoices the stomach, and disposes it to- receive and digest 
other food. — Brillat Savarin. 

It is important that we relish the food we eat. — Christian 
Temperance. 

*£T* t&^* t&* 



SOUP is easily prepared, economical, and when made 
from healthful materials, is a very wholesome article 
of diet. It adds much to the elegance and relish of a 
dinner, and, if taken in small quantities, is a good means 
of preparing the whole system to assimilate a hearty 
meal. 

Soups afford an excellent opportunity for using left-over 
foods which might otherwise be wasted. A combination 
of vegetables left over from the previous day, such as a 
cupful of mashed potatoes, some stewed peas, beans, or 
lentils, a few spoonfuls of boiled rice, stewed tomatoes, or 
other bits of vegetables or grains, if in good order, make a 
very palatable and nourishing soup. The vegetables 
should be put all together into a saucepan with enough 
water to cover them, let simmer for two or three hours, 

[13] 



14 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

then rubbed through a colander, and returned to the 
saucepan with sufficient water added to make the soup of 
proper consistency, reheated, seasoned, and served. 

For seasoning soup, a few spoonfuls of cream, or a 
little butter or nut butter maybe used, though if properly 
made is quite relishable without. 

We wish all our readers success with the following 
simple but delicious kinds. 

^* ^* *2r* 

BEAN SOUP. 

For two quarts of soup soak one pint of beans overnight. In 
the morning drain, and put to cook in cold water, adding one-third 
cup of well-washed rice if desired; boil slowly for about two hours. 
When done rub through a colander, thin with boiling water, and 
season with a little butter and salt. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Put the peas in water enough to cover them, add a little pinch 
of salt, boil until tender, skim the peas out, and rub through a 
colander; then return to the water in which they were boiled; add 
milk, a little cream or butter, and salt to taste. Pour the soup over 
a few croutons (bits of toasted bread) in a hot soup tureen. A quart 
of milk to a pint of peas is a good quantity. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

For each quart of soup desired boil slowly a cupful of split peas 
in three pints of water until thoroughly dissolved. Rub through a 
colander, add salt, a small teaspoonful of butter if desired, and, 
for flavoring, a slice or two of onion or celery. Reheat, and when 
boiling stir into it two teaspoonfuls of browned flour rubbed smooth 
in a little cold water. Remove the onion or celery with a fork 
before serving. Add two or three crisp crackers rolled fine, or 
serve with croutons. 

SPLIT PEA AND VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Make the soup as above. Cook one-half cup of vermicelli in a 
cupful of boiling water for ten minutes and add to the soup. 



A FRIRNT) IN THR KITCHKN. 15 

VEGETABLE PEA SOUP. 

Cook one quart of split peas until dissolved. When nearly done, 
add two or three medium-sized potatoes and one medium-sized 
onion, sliced thin. When these are done, rub all through a 
colander, add hot water to make of the consistency of thick cream, 
a little cream or butter, and salt to taste; reheat and serve. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Take one quart of stewed tomatoes, rub through a colander, and 
put to boiling; add two tablespoonfuls of flour mixed smooth in a 
little cold water, stirring well that no lumps be formed. Season 
with salt, and just before serving add a few spoonfuls of cream or a 
small piece of butter. 

LENTIL SOUP. 

Cook a pint of lentils in a small quantity of boiling water. 
When about half done, add, if desired, one medium-sized onion cut 
in halves or quarters. When the lentils are tender, remove the 
onion, and rub the lentils through a colander. Add sufficient 
boiling water to make three pints in all. Season with salt, a little 
cream or butter, reheat to boiling, and thicken with four table- 
spoonfuls of browned flour blended with a little cold water. The 
German, or dark lentils, are usually cheaper than the Egyptian, or 
red lentils. 

LENTIL AND TOMATO SOUP. 

Cook together one cup of lentils, one cup of stewed strained 
tomatoes, one cup of water, a teaspoonful of butter, and a stalk of 
celery. When done, add sufficient water to make the soup of 
proper consistency. Heat to boiling, remove the celery, and season 
with salt. Add one teaspoonful of browned flour rubbed to a paste 
with a little water. Boil for a few minutes, and serve. 

TOMATO AND MACARONI SOUP. 

Drop a cupful of macaroni broken into small pieces into three 
or four cupfuls of boiling water, and boil from twenty minutes to an 
hour, or until perfectly tender. The length of time required will 
depend upon whether the macaroni is fresh or stale. Stew one 
quart of fresh or canned tomatoes, and put through a strainer or 
colander to remove the coarse portions. Then add the macaroni, 
season with salt, and a little cream or butter if desired, boil to- 
gether for a few minutes, and serve. 

TOMATO AND VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Take two quarts of stewed tomatoes, strain, or pass through a 



l6 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

colander, and put to boil. Cook one cup of broken vermicelli in 
two cups of boiling water for ten minutes, and add to the tomatoes. 
Season with salt. If the soup is too thin a little cornstarch blended 
with a little cold water may be added, and the soup allowed to 
boil a few minutes longer. Just before serving, a few spoonfuls of 
sweet cream may be added if desired. 

RICE SOUP. 

Put to cook slowly one-third cup of well-washed rice in three 
cups of hot water, and cook one and a half hours. Then add a 
little salt and one quart of milk, reheat and serve. A little celery 
may be simmered in the soup for a short time, and removed before 
serving. 

SAGO PEA SOUP. 

Wash, soak, and cook one cupful of split peas in plenty of water 
until tender; rub through a colander, return to the fire, adding 
enough hot water to make three pints in all, and a few slices of 
onion. Wash three tablespoonfuls of sago in warm water, and stir 
gradually into the soup; simmer for a half hour, or until well dis- 
solved. Remove the onion, and season with salt. Add a few 
spoonfuls of thin cream or rich milk to the beaten yolk of an egg, 
and stir into the soup a few minutes before serving. 

SAGO FRUIT SOUP. 

Soak one-half cup of sago for an hour in a cup of cold water; 
then add a quart of water, and cook slowly until transparent. In 
the meantime cook together one cup of prunes and one-half cup of 
raisins in a small quantity of water. When the sago is transparent, 
add the fruit, together with one-half cup of currant, plum or some 
other tart fruit juice, and one-half cup of sugar. This will make 
three pints of soup. Serve hot with croutons. 

Instead of the above, rice with dried apricots, and prune or 
currant juice may be used. 

SAVORY SOUP. 

Take two cupfuls of cooked split peas which have been rubbed 
through a colander, one cupful of boiled mashed potatoes, and 
one-half cup of strained stewed tomatoes; add to this mixture 
enough hot water to make of proper consistency, a sliced onion, 
and salt as desired. Boil together for a few minutes until well 
flavored with the onion; remove the onion and serve. A half cup 
of broken vermicelli cooked for ten minutes in a cupful of boiling 
water, may be added if desired. 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 17 

CELERY SOUP. 

Wash a bunch of well-bleached celery, cut fine, and with one or 
two sliced potatoes put to cook in a small quantity of boiling 
water. When done, add a quart of milk, and pass through a 
colander; let heat to boiling, season with salt, and thicken with a 
little flour rubbed smooth in cold water, or serve with rolled 
crackers. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Cook together slowly for two hours, in two quarts of water, two 
cups of split peas, two or three slices each of carrot and turnip, one 
large potato sliced, one-half cup of canned tomatoes, and a small 
onion cut in pieces. If desired, a stalk of celery cut into small 
pieces may be used instead of the onion. When done, rub through 
a colander, add water to make of proper consistency, reheat, season 
with salt and a little cream or butter, and serve. 

POTATO SOUP. 

For each quart of soup required, take three medium-sized pota- 
toes, pare, cut in slices, and cook rapidly in sufficient water to 
cover them. When tender, rub through a colander. Then return 
to the fire, add three cups of sweet milk, and season with salt, and 
a little cream or butter if desired. Let the soup come co a boil, 
add a teaspoonful of flour rubbed smooth in a little water, boil a 
few minutes, and serve. A slice of onion or a stalk of celery may 
be simmered in the soup for a few minutes to flavor it, and then 
removed. Instead of the flour two or three crisp crackers rolled 
fine may be added just before serving. 

POTATO AND BEAN SOUP. 

Look over and soak one cup of beans overnight; when ready 
to cook, drain, and put over the fire in cold water. When done, 
rub through a colander; pare and slice three or four medium-sized 
potatoes, and put to cook in a small quantity of hot water; when 
done, put through a colander, and add to the beans; add milk or 
water sufficient to make about three pints of soup; season with salt, 
and boil for a few minutes. A few slices of onion or a little celery 
may be simmered in the soup for a few minutes to flavor if desired, 
and remove before serving. 

BARLEY SOUP. 

Cook a cup of pearl barley in three pints of water for several 
hours, adding water as needed to keep the quantity good. When 
done, add salt and a little cream, or the beaten yolk of an egg. 



l8 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

NOODLE SOUP. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs thoroughly, then add one cup of 
sifted flour, and knead well for five or ten minutes; divide into 
four parts, roll each part nearly as thin as a knife blade, and place 
on a clean cloth near the fire to dry. When dried sufficiently so 
that they will not stick together when rolled up, or be so dry as to 
be brittle, roll each piece up into a roll, and with a sharp knife cut 
or shave crosswise into very narrow slices, about one-twelfth of an 
inch in width. Shake out well, and let dry thoroughly. Then 
drop into hot salted water, and boil twenty minutes; drain off the 
water well, add a quart of milk, salt to taste, reheat, and serve. 
Noodles may be added to other soups instead of macaroni. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Take two bunches of fresh, tender asparagus, wash, cut into 
short lengths, and put to cook in a quart of hot water. Let cook 
slowly till tender, and the water reduced one-half; rub through a 
colander, add three cups of milk, a spoonful or two of cream, and 
salt to taste. Let heat to boiling, and serve with croutons. A half- 
cup of well-cooked rice may be stirred into the soup before serving 
if desired. 

SALSIFY OR VEGETABLE OYSTER SOUP. 

Wash, scrape, and place the salsify in cold water to prevent dis- 
coloring. When enough is prepared, cut into slices, and put to 
cook in an equal quantity of water, and cook slowly. When tender, 
add two or three cups of milk, a few spoonfuls of cream or a small 
piece of butter, heat to boiling, and slightly thicken with a table- 
spoonful or two of flour rubbed smooth in a little cold milk. Let 
boil a few minutes, season with salt, and serve. 

CROUTONS FOR SOUP. 

Cut stale bread into small cubes from one-half inch to an inch 
square, and brown in a moderate over. A spoonful or two of the 
croutons may be placed in each plate, and the hot soup turned over 
them, or placed in a dish on the table for use as desired. 

BROWNED FLOUR FOR SOUPS. 

Spread a small quantity of flour on shallow tins, and brown 
lightly in a moderately hot over; stir often enough to prevent any 
part from scorching. A quantity may be prepared and put away 
in covered jars for use. 




" O stay me with rice and with porridge, 
O comfort me sweetly with grits ! 
Baked beans give me plenty of courage, 
And cracked wheat enlivens mv wits.' 



No one should adopt an impoverished diet. 

Bring me my breakfast — oatmeal and boiled eggs. — A. T. 
Stewart, the millionaire. 

Carlyle, catching a glimpse of Macaulay's face, once remarked, 
" Well, any one can see that you are an honest, good sort of a fellow, 
made out of oatmeal. " 

Dr. Johnson, who entertained a great dislike for the Scots, and 
lost no opportunity of saying bitter things against them, once 
defined oats as " in Scotland food for Scotchmen; but in England 
food for horses." He was well answered by the indignant Scotch- 
man, who replied, " Yes, and where can you find such men as in 
Scotland, or such horses as in England ? " 



t^r* t£^* t£^* 



MOST grains require prolonged cooking, and slow 
cooking is preferable to fast. They are frequently 
served in the form of inusn, and too often in an under- 
done state. Thorough cooking not only breaks up the 
food, but partially digests the starch contained in it. 

Salt should be added to the water before stirring in the 
grain or meal. 

All grains and meals should be put into actively boil- 
ing water to prevent them from having a raw taste, and 

[19] 



20 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

allowed to boil fast until they " set," or thicken, and cease 
sinking to the bottom; till then they should be stirred fre- 
quently, but gently, to prevent burning. After the grain 
has thickened, it should be stirred very little or none at 
all. Much stirring then breaks up the particles, and frees 
the starchy portion, thus rendering the food pasty. 

Enough grain or meal should be used to make the 
mush quite thick and glutinous when done. Watery 
or sloppy mush is neither palatable nor strengthening 
to the digestive organs when used constantly. In fact, it 
should not be considered necessary to have mush every 
morning. A change occasionally to drier foods is better 
for the digestion. 

An excellent utensil for cooking 
grains is a milk or mush boiler, 
generally called a double boiler. 
This consists of one vessel set inside 
of another, the inner one containing 
the grain to be cooked, the outer one 
filled with boiling water only. An 
ordinary saucepan, however, will do Double Boikr. 

very well, if smooth, and by greasing the inside with a 
little butter before putting in the water, the tendency of 
the grain to adhere to the saucepan will be greatly 
obviated. 

If the double boiler is used, allow the grain to boil in 
the inner vessel standing directly over the range until it 
" sets," then cover and place in the outer vessel, the water 
in which must also be boiling in order that the cooking 
process be not checked; Ihen leave to cook slowly until 
done. From three to four hours is not too long when the 
double boiler is used. Grain prepared in this way may 




A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 21 

be cooked on the previous day and simply warmed up 
again the next morning for breakfast. What is left over 
from any meal may be used in the next preparation. 

If a hastily prepared mush is required, perhaps 
nothing better than the rolled oats can be employed, these 
requiring not more than half an hour's cooking, as they 
are already partially cooked in their manufacture, but 
even these are improved by longer cooking in a double 
boiler. 

&?* e^* i5* 

OATMEAL MUSH. 

Heat a quart of water to boiling, add a little salt, sprinkle into 
it a cupful of oatmeal, and boil rapidly, stirring frequently until it 
sets; then place on some part of the range where it will only sim- 
mer if an ordinary saucepan is used, and cook for about two hours, 
or until thoroughly done. 

ROLLED OATS. 

This is much preferred by some, as it requires only a short time 
to cook. Make as above, only using two cupfuls of the meal to 
one quart of water. An ordinary saucepan does very well for this, 
but the double boiler is better. 

ROLLED OATS AND SAGO MUSH. 

Wash and soak one-third cup of sago in a little cold water. 
Stir one and one-half cups of rolled oats into one quart of 
salted, boiling water. Cook for fifteen minutes, then stir in the 
sago, and cook as much longer. Serve with cream, stewed fruit, 
or fruit juice. 

GRAHAM MUSH. 

Into one quart of boiling water, properly salted, stir dry, sifted 
graham flour, until a rather thick porridge is obtained. Cook 
slowly for one hour on the back of the range, stirring but little after 
the first few minutes. Serve with milk or cream, and a very little 
sugar if desired. 

GRAHAM MUSH WITH DATES. 

Cook as above. Take a cupful of dates, cut in two, removing 



22 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

the stones, and stir into the mush just before taking from the 
fire. Serve with milk or cream. Steamed raisins or stewed figs 
may be used instead of dates. 

BOILED RICE. 

Wash one cup of rice, and put to cook in four cups of boiling 
water, slightly salted. Cook quite rapidly for the first fifteen 
minutes, stirring a little occasionally to prevent sticking to the pan. 
Then cover closely and cook slowly on the back of the range with- 
out stirring. When nearly done, add a cup of sweet milk, cook 
until tender, and serve with milk, cream, or stewed fruit. If the rice 
has been soaked overnight, put to cook in an equal quantity of 
boiling water, and cook for about half an hour. Milk may be used 
instead of water, or equal parts of milk and water. 

GRITS. 

To four parts of boiling water previously salted, add one part of 
grits, sprinkling it in with the hand, and cook slowly for about an 
hour. Serve hot with cream, milk, fruit juice, or stewed figs. 

CORN-MEAL MUSH. 

Into three pints of boiling water, salted, sprinkle one pint of 
corn-meal. Cook slowly for one or two hours, stirring occasionally. 
Serve with plenty of milk or cream. Avery good and nutritious 
mush, especially for winter. 

CORN-MEAL SQUARES. 

Take cold, left-over corn-meal mush, cut into rather thick 
slices and then into squares. Put the squares into a tureen, and 
pour over them some hot milk or cream. Cover the dish, let stand 
a few minutes, and serve. 

BARLEY MUSH. 

To each cupful of pearl barley, previously washed, add five 
cups of boiling water, a teaspoonful of salt, and cook in a double 
boiler, or an ordinary saucepan set in a kettle of boiling water, for 
three or four hours. Serve with cream, lemon sauce, or stewed 
fruit. 

BOILED WHEAT. 

To one part of good, plump wheat add five parts of cold water, 
and cook slowly from four to eight hours, or until the grains burst 
open and are tender. If soaked overnight, less time for boiling 
will be required. Add a little more water if necessary, but avoid 



A FRIEND IN THK KITCHEN. 



23 



much stirring. Season with salt, and serve hot or cold with milk, 
cream, fruit, or fruit juice. A very simple and wholesome dish. 

DRESSINGS FOR PUDDING OR MUSH. 

Heat to boiling, grape, blueberry, raspberry, or strawberry 
juice, add sugar to sweeten, and slightly thicken with cornstarch, 
allowing a tablespoonful to each pint of fruit juice. A good sub- 
stitute for milk or cream. 



e£" e^* &5" 



WALL RACK. 



©a 





B B 

£ g 
S I 

< c 
<u 

S 

i 

o 




" A meal— what is it ? Just enough of food 
To renovate and well refresh the frame, 
So that with spirits lightened, and with strength renewed, 
We turn with willingness to work again." 

The appetite is subject to education; therefore learn to love that 
which you know to be good and wholesome. 

The most e.x-pensive food is spoiled when served up burnt or 
tasteless; the cheapest may be delicious with the proper seasoning. 
— Lantz. 

t^r* £?* ^2^* 



TOAST makes a very nice breakfast dish, and is easily 
and quickly prepared. It can be made in a variety 
of ways which are both simple and wholesome. When 
properly prepared it furnishes abundant nourishment, and 
is easily digested. 

The proper foundation for all toasts is zwieback (pro- 
nounced zwiback), or twice-baked bread. This may be 
made from either fresh or stale bread, the fresh making 
the more crisp and delicious for dry eating. The bread 
should be light and of good quality. That which is sour, 
heavy, and unfit to eat untoasted, should never be used 
for toast. 

Toasts afford an excellent opportunity for using up left- 
over slices of bread, and its use is therefore a matter of 
economy as well as of securing variety in diet. 

3 [25l 



26 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

ZWIEBACK, OR DRY TOAST, 

Cut fresh or stale, light bread, either white or brown, into slices 
half an inch thick, divide in halves, place on tins, and bake slowly 
in a moderate oven until baked evenly throughout. Care should 
be taken not to scorch the bread. It should not be put into an 
oven that is merely warm. It should be baked, not simply dried. 
The common method of toasting merely the outside of the bread 
by holding it over a fire is not the most wholesome way of prepar- 
ing toast. When properly made it will be crisp throughout. 
Zwieback may be prepared in quantity and kept on hand for use. 
It furnishes a good article of diet, especially for dyspeptics, eaten 
dry, or with milk or cream. 

MILK TOAST, 

Take a half dozen slices of zwieback (or more if required), 
place each slice on a saucer or small plate, soften by pouring a few 
spoonfuls of hot water over each slice and draining, or dipping the 
slices quickly in hot water or milk; sprinkle lightly with salt, 
pour over a small quantity of rich milk heated to boiling, and 
serve. 

TOAST WITH MILK SAUCE. 

Prepare a milk sauce by heating a pint of milk to boiling, 
thicken with a little flour rubbed smooth in a little cold milk, add 
a pinch of salt, and let boil for a few minutes. Moisten six or 
eight pieces of zwieback by dipping them quickly into hot water 
or milk; place half of these in a dish, put a few spoonfuls of the 
milk sauce over each slice, then add the remaining moistened 
slices, pour over all the rest of the milk sauce, and serve hot. 

ASPARAGUS TOAST. 

Prepare asparagus by washing each stalk free from sand; 
remove the tough portions, cut the stalks into small pieces, and 
stew in a little hot salted water; drain off the water as soon as 
done, add a cup of milk, and season with a little butter and salt. 
Cream may be used instead of the milk and butter. Moisten the 
zwieback with hot milk, and place in a dish. Pour over the stewed 
asparagus, and serve hot. 

BERRY TOAST. 

Prepare zwieback as above. Take fresh or canned strawberries, 
raspberries, mulberries, or other fruit, mash well with a spoon, add 
sugar to sweeten, and serve as a dressing on the slices of zwieback 
previously moistened. 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 2J 

EGG TOAST, 

Moisten slices of zwieback in hot milk or cream, season with a 
sprinkle of salt, and serve hot with a poached egg on each slice. 
For poached eggs see page 74. 

BANANA TOAST, 

Moisten slices of zwieback in hot milk. Mash the bananas into 
a pulp, or cut into thin slices, and place some on each slice of 
toast. 

FRUIT TOAST, 

Take stewed apricots, peaches, or plums, rub through a 
colander, heat to boiling, thicken with a little cornstarch, sweeten 
to taste, and pour over the moistened zwieback. 

CREAM TOAST, 

Moisten slices of zwieback in hot water, sprinkle with a little 
salt, and dip over each slice* a spoonful or two of nice, sweet, cold 
cream. 

BUTTER TOAST, 

Place each slice of zwieback on a small plate, pour over a little 
hot water, and quickly drain off; add a sprinkle of salt, if desired, 
spread lightly with butter and Serve. 

CRUSHED TOAST, 

Take fresh, but thoroughly toasted bread or crackers, or some of 
each, grind closely in a coffee or hand mill, or crush with a rolling- 
pin, and serve in small dishes with milk, cream, or fruit juice. 
This may be used as a substitute for the health food known as 
granola. Crushed toast is also a very serviceable article for use in 
soups and puddings. 

TOMATO TOAST, 

Moisten slices of zwieback in hot milk, and serve with a dress- 
ing prepared by heating a pint of strained, stewed tomatoes to 
boiling, and thickening with a tablespoonful of flour or cornstarch 
rubbed smooth in a little cold water. Season with salt and a little 
cream or butter, and pour over the toast. 

Variety. — Remember, as Home Note says, that " variety of 
diet is important. Ill health often follows a monotonous sameness 
of diet. Oatmeal, bread and butter, and marmalade, are all excel- 
lent breakfast dishes of their kind, but when given every morning, 
for years at a time, they become positively nauseating." 




A VOICE FROM THE CORN. 

"I was made to be eaten, not to be drank, 
To be thrashed in a barn, not soaked in a tank; 
I come as a blessing when put in a mill, 
As a blight and a curse when run through a still ; 
Make me up into loaves, and your children are fed; 
But made into drink, I will starve them instead. 
In bread I'm a servant, the eater shall rule, 
In drink I'm a master, the drinker a fool. 
Then remember my warning; my strength I'll employ,— 
If eaten, to strengthen, if drank, to destroy." 

The wandering Arab lives almost entirely upon bread, with a 
few dates as a relish. 

Behind the nutty loaf is the mill wheel; behind the mill is the 
wheat field; on the wheat field rests the sunlight; above the sun is 
God.— James Russell Lowell. 

1£r* *£?* *&^ 

BREAD stands at the head of all foods. It has very 
properly been termed "the staff of life." 
Why this is so is because wheat, from which bread is 
mostly made, contains more nearly than any other one 
article all the necessary food elements required to sustain 
the human system, and these, too, in proper proportions, 
and so forms most nearly a perfect food. From it the 
brain, bones, muscles, and nerves, all receive a large 
amount of nourishment. 

This being so, bread should eater largely into the 
daily bill of fare of every family. It is hardly too much 
to say that no meal is complete without it. 
[28] 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 29 

Where little bread is used, serious defects may fre- 
quently be observed. For instance, in some of the islands 
of the Pacific Ocean, where no wheat has been grown, 
and little could be obtained, the inhabitants almost uni- 
versally have poor teeth. The early decay of the teeth 
so prevalent among the rising generation to-day, may 
generally be attributed to four causes: (i) A lack of suffi- 
cient lime in the water; (2) too free indulgence in sweets, 
such as rich cakes, jams, and candies; (3) too large an 
amount of flesh foods; and (4) an insufficient supply of 
good, simple, wholesome bread, especially whole wheat 
bread. 

Home-made bread, when properly prepared, is gen- 
erally to be preferred to baker's bread. Chemicals and 
adulterations, as well as a lack of cleanliness and proper 
care in preparation, not infrequently characterize the 
latter, and thus give rise to serious stomach disorders. 
Moreover, baker's bread is not always obtainable, and is 
always necessarily more expensive than that which is 
home-made. The baker cannot afford to work for noth- 
ing. For these reasons, every woman, and especially 
every wife and mother, ought to know how to make 
good bread. The temptation to patronize the bake shop 
should not outweigh the interests of the health of the 
family, and the duty to practise economy. 

The essentials to good bread-making are three : — 

1. Good flour. 

2. Good yeast. 

3. Proper attention. 

When either of these is lacking, good results cannot 
be obtained. Poor flour will not produce good bread; 
good flour and poor yeast will not make good bread; and 



30 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

good flour and good yeast with improper attention will 
not insure good bread. All three are essential. 

The first thing to consider in the making of bread is 
the flour. Good flour will generally be found to have a 
creamy white tint. That which is of a bluish white is 
seldom the best. Good flour will fall light and elastic 
from the hand. Flour that retains the imprint of the 
fingers when squeezed, and falls in a damp, clammy mass, 
should be avoided. 

The second essential is good yeast. One may have 
ever so good flour and yet make poor bread, if the flour 
is used in conjunction with poor yeast. Good yeast has a 
fresh, pungent odor, and is light and foamy; while poor 
yeast has a sour odor, and a dull, watery appearance. 

The third essential is proper attention. Bread sponge 
should be made at night if it is desired to have the bread 
baked in the early part of the day. If the weather is 
cold, the flour used in making the sponge should first be 
warmed, and the sponge covered with a cloth, and set in 
a warm place till morning. 

A few mealy potatoes, cooked and mashed, added to 
the sponge makes the bread sweeter and keeps the bread 
fresh longer. Milk used in connection with yeast should 
first be scalded and cooled to lukewarm. 

The sponge should be mixed with flour the first thing 
in the morning. It should be light and about twice the 
bulk it was when set. Too much flour should not be 
used, as it will make the bread hard and tough; but 
enough should be used to prevent the dough from stick- 
ing to the pan. The dough should be thoroughly 
kneaded, not with the tips of the fingers, but with the 
whole hands, from the sides into the center, turning 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 3 1 

frequently on the molding board, that all portions may be 
thoroughly worked. It should then be put back into the 
pan and set in a warm place and allowed to rise to twice 
the bulk it was when kneaded. If the dough is then 
pushed down in the pan and let rise again before making 
into loaves, the bread will be still lighter and more tender. 
Much depends on thorough kneading. 

The loaves should rise to twice their size when first 
macfe out and then be placed in a hot oven to bake. The 
oven should be hot when the bread is put in. By no 
means have the bread, when ready to bake, wait for the 
oven to be heated, as it may then become too light, run 
over in the oven, and possibly be sour. 

Medium-sized loaves should generally be baked about 
three-quarters of an hour. 

When taken from the oven the loaves should be turned 
out of the pans, placed on their sides, so that the crust 
will not soften by the steam, and covered with a thin 
cloth. When cold, roll each loaf in a cloth and keep in 
a tin box. 

As to their healthfulness, the most wholesome breads 
are unleavened breads, or those made without either 
yeast, baking powder, soda, or cream of tartar, such as 
gems, rolls, and crackers. Next come those made with 
good yeast; then those with baking powder, if compara- 
tively pure; and lastly those made with soda and sour 
milk, or soda and cream of tartar. Baking powder is 
preferable to soda. The latter should seldom if ever be 
used, as it is injurious to the health, being an active dys- 
pepsia-producing article. Very few recipes in this work 
make use even of baking powder, and only two or three 
of soda. 



32 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 




Sieve, 



WHITE BREAD. 

Make a sponge at night as follows: Take six medium-sized 
potatoes, boil and mash as smooth as possible, place in the bread- 
pan, and add three pints of warm water (or the same quantity of 
milk previously scalded and cooled to lukewarm), one tablespoon- 
ful of salt, one cake of dry or one-half cupful of liquid yeast, and 
enough sifted flour to make a rather stiff batter; stir hard for eight 
or ten minutes, and set in a warm place overnight. In the 
morning the sponge should be very light; mix 
as soon as possible, adding flour enough to pre- 
vent the dough from sticking to the pan, 
though it should be rather soft; knead thor- 
oughly, then let rise to twice the bulk it was 
when kneaded; push the dough down in the pan , 
and when it has again become light mold into 
loaves and place in the baking pans. Great 
care should be taken that at any time the 
dough does not become chilled or over-heated, 
as in either case the bread would most likely 
prove a failure. After each loaf has risen to twice its original size, 
place in a moderately hot oven to bake. This amount will be suffi- 
cient for four loaves. If the sponge is set in the afternoon, it will 
be light enough to mix in the evening, and can then be made into 
loaves in the morning. Or, if the yeast is very quick, the sponge 
can be made in the morning and the bread baked in the afternoon. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Take two tablespoon fuls of good liquid yeast, two cups of sweet 
milk, previously scalded and cooled to lukewarm, one teaspoonful 
of salt, and two cupfuls of white flour; beat together thoroughly, 
and set to rise. When very light, add three heaping cupfuls of 
sifted graham flour, or sufficient to make a soft dough. Knead for 
a half hour, then place in a pan slightly buttered, cover warmly, 
and set to rise. When light, form into a loaf, let rise again, and 
bake. 

GRAHAM FRUIT BREAD. 

Take two cupfuls of milk, add two tablespoon fuls of good 

lively yeast, two heaping cupfuls of white flour, a tablespoonful of 

salt and a half cup of sugar or molasses; 

^ill'IIHHillHlillillllliiiiiiiiiiiin// -^- beat wel1 together and set to rise. When 

WSf wfm! light ' add three cups of sifted grahau ! 

Wt^m 1/ flour > or enough to make a soft dough , and 

^ :■:'■ "! Illlllllll 11/ knead well for twenty minutes; then add a 
cup of raisins, or equal portions of raisins 
and dried currants, washed and dried, and 
Knead a few minutes longer, place in pan 



Baking Pan 
dusted with flour. 




A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 33 

slightly buttered to prevent the dough from sticking, and let rise 
again. When very light form into a loaf, put into the baking pan, 
allow to become light again, and bake. The dough should be very 
soft. If the hands are oiled with a little butter, it can be handled 
more easily. If very lively yeast is used, the sponge may be set in 
the morning; otherwise set in the evening. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

Stir together one cup of corn-meal, three-fourths cup of sifted 
graham flour, one-fourth cup of molasses, one cup 
of sour milk, one-half teaspoon ful of soda dissolved 
in a little hot water and added to the milk, and one- 
third teaspoonful of salt. Beat hard, then turn into 
a small, round, deep, buttered baking-pan, place in a 
saucepan of hot water, and steam one hour and fifteen 
minutes, then bake about ten minutes. An enameled 
quart cup will answer if the round baking-pan is 
not at hand. Good warm or cold. 

JOHNNY CAKE, 

Take one quart of sour milk, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter, one of sugar, a teaspoonful of salt, one cupful 
of white flour, and enough corn-meal to make a rather thin 
batter, and one teaspoonful of soda. Beat the whites and yolks of 
the eggs separately. Dissolve the soda in a little hot water and 
add to the milk, stirring gently; then add the sugar, beaten yolks, 
and melted butter, stirring all well together; then add the flour and 
meal, and beat thoroughly; lastly, add the beaten whites; a little 
more meal may be used if the batter is found to be too thin. 
Bake in a long pan or gem irons in a hot oven, and serve hot. 

FRUIT BREAD. 

Beat well together two cups of rich milk, one-fourth cup of 
good yeast, and two cups of white flour; let stand overnight. In 
the morning, add two cups of dried currants well washed and 
dried, one cup of sugar, and three cups of flour, or sufficient to 
make a good dough. Knead thoroughly, and set to rise; when 
light, form into loaves, let rise again and bake. 

SALT RISING BREAD. 

Take a small pitcher and put into it a half pint of warm water, 
a teaspoonful each of salt and sugar; and stir in flour enough to 
make a medium thick batter. Set the pitcher in a kettle of warm 
water to rise. It should be kept warm all the time, not hot, for 
if it is scalded it will never rise. When light, stir in a pint of 



34 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

warm milk or water and enough warm flour to make a soft dough. 
Knead it, form into a loaf, place in the pan, set to rise in a warm 
place, and bake as soon as light. 

RAISED BISCUITS. 

Make from dough prepared for white, graham, or graham fruit 
bread. The biscuits will be improved if made from dough 
that has been prepared with milk. After kneading thoroughly the 
last time, divide the dough into small, equal portions, shape into 
smooth, round biscuits, place closely in a shallow baking pan, and 
let rise till considerably lighter than bread. Bake in a rather 
quick oven. Just before removing from the oven the tops may be 
brushed with the beaten white of an egg. 

GEMS, 

General Directions. 

Beating in an abundance of cold air is very essential in the 
making of good gems, as it is this that makes them light. Cold 
air is preferable to warm air, as it ex- 
pands more when heating. 

Gems are also better when baked in 
iron pans than in tin, as the iron retains 
the heat better, and bakes the gems more 
evenly. The irons should be heated Gem Irons, 

hot before the batter is dropped into them. 

Having the oven hot from the first is also essential, as a crust 
will then be formed immediately, and the air which has been 
beaten into the batter will thus be prevented from escaping. 
They should be placed in the oven so as to bake on the top first, 
and afterwards on the bottom. These points should be carefully 
observed. Gems are best served hot. They should be broken 
open, and never cut with a knife, as this makes them heavy. 

GRAHAM GEMS, No. J. 

Place the gem irons in the oven or on the range to heat. Mix 
salted graham flour with cold milk or water to a batter thick 
enough to drop, beating vigorously for ten minutes to beat in the 
air. Butter the gem irons, and fill each cup nearly full of the 
batter. Put in a hot oven, and bake until done. 

GRAHAM GEMS No. 2. 

Beat separately the yolk and white of an egg. Add to the 
beaten yolk two cupfuls of sweet, rich milk, a half teaspoonful of 
salt, and stir well together; then add one and one-half cupfuls 




a friend in the kitchen. 35 

of sifted graham flour, and a scant cup of white flour, which have 
been stirred well together, sprinkling it with the hand, and 
beating vigorously meanwhile. Continue to beat until the mix- 
ture is light and foamy throughout, and full of air bubbles; then 
stir in gently the stiffly-beaten white of the egg. Have the gem 
irons thoroughly heated, slightly butter them, drop in the batter 
with a spoon, and bake in a quick oven. 

OATMEAL GEMS. 

Beat separately the yolk and white of an egg. Beat the white 
to a stiff froth. To the beaten yolk add a cupful of well-cooked 
oatmeal mush, and a half cup of milk or thin cream. Beat 
together thoroughly. Continue to beat while adding a cupful of 
white flour and a pinch of salt, then fold in lightly the beaten 
white of the egg. Have the gem irons heated hot, slightly butter, 
drop in the batter, filling the little cups nearly full, and bake in a 
quick oven until a light brown. 

CORN-MEAL GEMS. 

Stir well together one and one-half cupfuls of milk, and the 
yolks of two eggs previously beaten. To this add two cupfuls of 
corn-meal, one-half teaspoonful of salt, and one cupful of white 
flour. Beat thoroughly, then stir in lightly the whites of the eggs 
previously beaten to a stiff froth, and bake as above. 

RICE GEMS. 

Moisten one cup of well cooked rice with two tablespoonfuls 
of cream or rich milk; add two cups of sifted graham flour, a little 
salt, and moisten the whole with three-fourths cup of sweet milk. 
Beat thoroughly and bake in heated gem irons until well done. 

POP OVERS. 

To one well-beaten egg add one cup of milk, a pinch of salt, 
and sift in, a little at a time, one heaping cup of flour; beat well 
for ten minutes, and bake in heated gem irons. 

BREAKFAST ROLLS. 

To three slightly heaping cups of sifted graham flour add a 
little salt, and one cup of milk or thin cream, cream is better. 
Stir the milk or cream into the flour, mixing it well with the flour 
as fast as poured in. Knead well for from twenty to thirty 
minutes. Divide the dough into three portions, and with the 
hands roll each portion over and over on the molding board 
until a long roll from an inch to an inch and a half in thickness is 



36 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

formed. Cut into two or three inch lengths > and bake at once 
in a hot oven in a baking pan dusted with flour, or better, on 
a perforated piece of sheet-iron made for the purpose, placing the 
rolls a little distance apart. Bake until a light brown. When 
done do not place one on top of another. 

Flour kneaded into cold graham flour, oatmeal, grits or corn- 
meal mush makes very good breakfast rolls. . 

STICKS. 

Make the same as breakfast rolls, only rolling the dough to 
about the size of the little finger, and cutting into three or four 
inch lengths. 

FRUIT ROLLS. 

Make the dough the same as for breakfast rolls; knead well, 
then add one-half cup of seedless raisins or stoned dates chopped 
fine, make into rolls as directed above, and bake. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Make a sponge at night of one-half cake of dry or one-fourth 
cup of good liquid yeast, the beaten white of one egg, two table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a little 
salt, and three cups of warm milk or water, and flour sufficient to 
make a soft dough. In the morning knead well and let rise again. 
When light, roll out the dough to about three-fourths of an inch 
in thickness; cut into about four-inch squares with a sharp knife, 
butter the edges, and roll each corner up and over to the center; 
place on buttered tins, allow the rolls to become very light, and 
bake in a moderately hot oven. The sponge for this can be set in 
the morning if the yeast is very quick. 

OATMEAL CRACKERS No. J. 

Make the same as graham crackers (page 36), only using an 
equal portion of oatmeal mush with the graham flour, instead 
of all graham flour. 

OATMEAL CRACKERS No. 2. 

Take two cups of flour, one cup of oatmeal, one-third cup of 
butter, one-half cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of baking powder, 
two eggs, or one egg and one-fourth cup of milk. Mix well 
together, roll out thin, cut with a knife or cake cutter, and bake 
on well-floured tins in a hot oven. Instead of the cup of oatmeal, 
equal portions of oatmeal and ground rice may be used. 




A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 37 

GRAHAM CRACKERS. 

Take one cup of cream or milk, and sifted graham 
flour sufficient to make a soft dough, adding a little 
salt. Knead well, roll quite thin, cut into squares 
with a knife, or into shapes with a cake cutter, prick 
with a fork, and bake on shallow, floured tins in a 
brisk oven. A tablespoon ful of sugar may be added 
Cake cutter. j f desired If milk is used> a Uttle me l t ed butter 

should be added to it. 

FRUIT CRACKERS. 

Make a dough with one cup of cold, sweet cream or rich milk, 
three cups of sifted graham flour, and a little salt. Knead thor- 
oughly, and divide into two portions. Roll each quite thin, then 
spread one with currants, stoned dates, figs, or seedless raisins, 
chopped fine, and place the other one on top; press down with the 
rolling-pin, cut into oblong squares with a knife, and bake. 
White flour may be used instead of graham flour, if desired. 

RUSKS. 

Make a sponge at night with one cupful of sugar, one cupful of 
scalded milk, cooled to lukewarm, one-half cupful of butter, two 
eggs, one cake of dry or one-fourth cup of good liquid yeast, and 
sufficient flour to make a soft dough. Set in a warm place to rise. 
In the morning knead well, and let rise well. Push down again 
in the pan when light. When risen again, mold into the form of 
biscuits, place a little distance apart on buttered tins, and brush 
over with the beaten white of an egg sweetened; let stand until 
light, and bake. 

FRUIT BUNS. 

Make the same as plain buns, adding one-half cup of raisins or 
currants just before kneading and forming into buns. 

PLAIN BUNS. 

Beat together one-fourth cup of lively yeast, one cup of sweet 
milk, previously scalded and cooled to lukewarm, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, two cups of warm flour, and set in a warm place 
to rise. When very light, work into the dough one-half cup of 
sugar, and two tablespoonfuls of butter. Knead well for ten 
minutes, using enough flour to make a soft dough. Shape into the 
form of biscuits a little larger than an egg; place on tins slightly 
buttered, and set in a warm place to rise. When very light, bake 
in a moderately hot oven. The tops may be brushed over with 
the sweetened beaten white of an egg while baking, or sprinkled 
with moist sugar when taken from the oven. 




38 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

RICE WAFFLES, 

Set a sponge at night with two cups of sweet milk, scalded 
and cooled to lukewarm, one teaspoonful of butter, a pinch of 
salt, two-thirds of a cupful of boiled rice, three 
cupfuls of flour, and one-fourth cup of liquid 
yeast. Beat the batter hard for five or six min- 
utes, and set in a warm place to rise. In the 
morning add two well-beaten eggs, and stir well 
together. Bake on a hot, buttered waffle iron. 
If this is not at hand, have the gem irons well 
heated, slightly butter to prevent sticking, and 
drop in the batter. Place in a hot oven so the 
Waffle Iron. top will bake first, and bake to a rich brown 

color. Very nice for breakfast. 

PUFFS, 

To two cups of milk add a little salt and the yolks of two eggs 
well-beaten; then sift in, a little at a time, and beating meanwhile, 
three small cups of flour. Beat until light, then stir in gently the 
stiffly-beaten whites of the eggs, and bake in hot gem irons. 

FRUIT LOAF No. J. 

Take enough good bread dough for one loaf, add one cup of 
brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls of butter, and one cup of raisins, 
previously washed and dried. Knead well and let rise, then knead 
again, place in a bread pan, let rise until light, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

FRUIT LOAF No. 2. 

Make a sponge of one and one-half cups of warm milk or 
water, one-half cup of good yeast, the beaten white of one egg, 
one tablespoonful each of butter and sugar, a little salt, and flour 
sufficient to make a soft dough. Let rise till light, then knead 
well and let rise again. When light, roll out to about one inch in 
thickness, spread over with chopped dates, or raisins, or currants 
which have been previously washed and dried; roll up and form 
into a loaf, let rise, and bake. 

MILK BISCUITS. 

Take one quart of flour and sift in well two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, add a teaspoonful of salt and two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, working it in thoroughly; then mix lightly and quickly 
with milk enough to make a soft dough. Roll out to three- 
quarters of an inch in thickness, cut with a round cutter, place in 
shallow tins, and bake in a hot oven. 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 39 

CORN-MEAL BATTER CAKES. 

To two cups of cold corn-meal mush, add one cup of sifted 
flour, and a pinch of salt; beat well the yolks of two eggs, to 
which add two-thirds of a cup of milk, and stir 
into i the mush; beat thoroughly until light 
and smooth, adding a little more milk if neces- 
sary, to make the batter of proper consistency. 
Then gently stir in the whites of the eggs G 

beaten to a stiff froth, and bake in small cakes 
on both sides on a hot frying-pan or on a griddle, slightly but- 
tered. Serve hot. Very nice. Try them. 

LENTIL FRITTERS. 

To a pint of lentil soup (left-over soup will do), add the well- 
beaten yolks of two eggs, and sift in enough flour, a little at a 
time, beating thoroughly, to make a good batter. Then add the 
stiffly-beaten whites of the eggs, and drop by spoonfuls on a hot 
buttered griddle, and brown on both sides. 

BUCKWHEAT PANCAKES. 

In the evening take two quarts of warm water, add one-fourth 
cup of good yeast, a small teaspoonful of salt, and buckwheat 
flour enough to make a good batter; beat well and set to rise. 
In the morning thin the batter with a little warm water, if neces- 
sary, and bake on a hot griddle. If cakes are desired for several 
mornings, the batter may be kept going by leaving at least a cup- 
ful after each baking, and adding the necessary warm water and 
buckwheat flour, each evening as at first. A little soda dissolved 
in warm water may be added just before baking if they seem a 
little sour. 

DESSERT GEMS. 

Stir together the beaten yolk of one &gg, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of butter, a little salt, three-fourths cup of 
milk, and one-half cup of corn-meal; then sift in one cup of flour 
with one teaspoonful baking powder, beat well, fold in beaten 
white of egg, and turn into hot gem irons. Drop a stoned date 
filled with dessicated cocoanut on each gem, and bake. 




GATHERING FRUIT. 




The earth to thee her increase yields 
The trees their fruitage bring ; 

And glittering in the sun-lit fields, 
The vines with bounty spring. 



" Every tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed, to 
you it shall be for meat." Gen. i : 29. 

If families could be induced to substitute the apple — sound, ripe, 
and luscious — for pies, cakes, candies, and other sweetmeats with 
which children are too often stuffed, there would be a diminution 
of doctor's bills, sufficient in a single year to la) r up in stock of this 
delicious fruit for a season's use. —Professor Faraday. 

There is much false economy ; those who are too poor to have 
seasonable fruits and vegetables, will yet have pie and pickles all 
the year. They cannot afford oranges, yet can afford tea and coffee 
daily. — Health Calendar. 

t£* <&* t&& 



FRUITS are a natural food. They form no inconsider- 
able part of those products of the earth given by the 
Creator to our first parents as food. " Behold I have 
given you," He says, " every herb bearing seed, which is 
upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in which is 
the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for 
meat." Gen. 1:29. 

Fruits are not only delightful to the eye, pleasing to 
the smell, and satisfying to the taste, but they contain 
elements which are necessary for the best maintenance of 
the system ; hence the natural craving for them when the 
system is in a normal condition. 

4 [4i] 



42 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

While not containing a large amount of nutrition com- 
pared to their size, they are, nevertheless, valuable on 
account of their juices, and also because of their giving 
bulk to our food, — a very necessary thing to be con- 
sidered. 

Containing as they do from seventy-five to ninety per 
cent, of water, their use naturally allays thirst. If their 
use were more general there would doubtless be less desire 
for unnatural drinks. 

As a rule, fruits, and especially acid and sub-acid 
fruits, are cooling *o the blood, and most kinds act also as 
a laxative to the sy:tem, tending to keep it free and open. 
They should therefore be freely used in the daily bill of 
fare, though in proper combinations. Fruits go well with 
grains and milk, but not so well with vegetables, espe- 
cially acid fruits. 

And what gives a nicer appearance to the table than a 
dish of fruit ! Its very sight is inviting and appetizing. 

In preparing fresh fruit 
for the table care should be 
taken to select only that 
which is sound and ripe. 
It should also be carefully 
cleaned. Apples should be 
wiped with a damp cloth, 
and their beauty will be 
further enhanced by polish- 
ing them with a dry one. 
Plums should be likewise 
treated. Grapes should be 
washed, and the stem ends of bananas cut off. Bananas 
may also be peeled, sliced, and served with cream. 




A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 43 

Oranges may be placed on the table whole, or their skins 
cut into eighths, and peeled half-way down. In serving 
cherries in their natural state, the stems should be left on. 

Much taste may be displayed in the arrangement of 
fresh fruit for the table. A few green leaves interspersed 
with the fruit, or a variety of fruits tastily arranged on 
the same dish, make a very attractive appearance. 

Nature sets before us an abundance of delicious fruits, 
and these in almost endless varieties and flavors. 

Most fruits are both wholesome and agreeable when 
eaten raw, but many are rendered more easy of digestion 
by cooking. Some persons with weak digestion cannot 
eat many kinds of raw fruits, but almost every one can 
eat most kinds when cooked. 

The following are some of the numerous, most simple, 
and practical ways in which fruits may be prepared. 

t^* C^* 5*7* 

BAKED APPLES, No, U 

Apples to be baked may be pared or baked with the skins on. 
If firm and quite tart, pare, place in a pie dish, add sugar and a 
little hot water, and bake in a moderate oven. If the apples are 
juicy, less water will be required. When tender, turn into a dish, 
and pour over them the syrup or j uice. 

BAKED APPLES, No. 2. 

Pare and core without halving, a number of nice, tart apples ; 
fill the centers with sugar and jelly, lay closely in a shallow pan, 
add a little water, and bake slowly, basting occasionally with 
the syrup to keep the centers well filled. Bake till brown and 
tender, and serve with a boiled custard made with two cups of 
milk, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, two eggs, and vanilla to flavor. 

STEWED APPLES. 

Pare, core, and cut into small pieces some moderately tart 
apples, place in a saucepan, and add sufficient boiling water to 



44 A FRIKND IN THK KITCHEN. 

stew to a pulp ; cook slowly for about an hour, stirring but little„ 
When cool, add sugar to sweeten. 

BAKED SWEET APPLES. 

Select good, sweet apples. Wash, but do not pare or core 
them ; put into a baking pan with a little water, and bake in a hot 
oven. Baste occasionally with the juice in the bottom of the 
pan. When done, if desired, each apple may be dipped in the 
beaten white of an egg, then in powdered sugar, and returned to 
the oven until the icing is set. Baked apples, pears or quinces 
prepared in this way are delicious, besides being very ornamental. 
Plain sweet baked apples are very nice served with cream. 

APPLE SCALLOP. 

Pare, core, and slice a half dozen good cooking apples. Spread 
a layer in the bottom of a deep pudding dish, then over these a layer 
of bread crumbs mixed with a little sugar, and thus alternating till 
the dish is filled, having a layer of apples on top. Add a half cup 
of cold water, and bake in a rather quick oven till done. Serve 
with rich milk or cream. 

BOILED APPLES. 

Remove the cores and cook whole, or in halves, in enough 
boiling water to cover them. Cook slowly. When tender, remove 
the apples to a dish with a spoon or fork, sweeten the juice with 
sugar, add a little lemon flavoring extract, and thicken slightly 
with a very little cornstarch blended with a little cold water, 
pour over the apples and serve when cool. 

APPLE COBBLER. 

Pare, core, and slice six large, tart apples; add a little 
water, the juice and grated peel of a lemon, and sugar to sweeten. 
Stew slowly until a pulp, then turn into a mold. Serve with plain 
or whipped cream. 

BAKED PEARS. 

Take good, sound pears, cut in halves, pare, and fill an enam- 
eled pudding dish, sprinkling sugar through them; pour in a cupful 
of hot water, cover tightly, and bake slowly till tender. Serve 
cold. Or, wash, wipe, and bake whole in a shallow dish, putting 
in a very little water. 

STEWED PEARS. 

Pare, quarter, and core nice ripe pears, and drop into cold water 
to keep from discoloring. Make a syrup, allowing two cups of 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 45 

water and a half cup of sugar to each quart of fruit. Boil the 
syrup for a few minutes, put in the fruit, and cook until clear and 
tender,being careful not to break the fruit through stirring. Three 
or four slices of lemon added to the syrup while boiling will im- 
prove the flavor of the pears. Remove the lemon before putting 
in the fruit. 

BAKED QUINCES. 

Pare, core, and bake the same as apples. The fruit may be 
left whole, and the centers filled with sugar. Sufficient water 
should be used so that the fruit will not become dry. Baste with 
the syrup while baking. 

BAKED PEACHES, No. U 

Take good, firm peaches, pare, cut in halves, removing the 
stones, and place in a deep pudding dish, sprinkling with sugar. 
Add a little water, and bake until tender. 

BAKED PEACHES, No. 2. 

Bake as above ; when done, cover the top with a meringue 
made of the whites of two or three eggs beaten stiff and a little 
powdered sugar added by degrees ; return to the oven and brown 
slightly. Serve cold with cream or rich milk. 

STEWED PEACHES. 

Take ripe peaches, pare, or wipe carefully with a damp cloth, 
cut in halves, remove the stones, and drop into cold water. 
When ready, place the fruit in a saucepan, adding sufficient boil- 
ing water to keep from burning. Add sugar, two tablespoon fuls 
to each quart of fruit. Cook slowly until tender, generally from 
twenty to thirty minutes. 

STEWED PRUNES. 

Wash clean in warm water, rinse, put into a saucepan, adding 
hot water in the proportion of three parts water to one of prunes. 
Cover, and cook very slowly for about two hours. But little 
sugar will be required. 

STEWED BERRIES. 

Raspberries, blackberries, currants, gooseberries, strawberries, 
cherries, plums, blueberries, and other small fruits, should be 
cooked in a small quantity of water, and sweetened to taste when 
done. 



46 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

PINEAPPLE, 

Pare, cut into thin slices into a dish, and sprinkle lightly 
with sugar ; let stand in a cool place for an hour, and serve. 

FRUIT MOLD. 

Stew a quart of berries in a small quantity of water for fifteen 
or twenty minutes; then add sugar to taste, and two tablespoon fuls 
of cornstarch dissolved in a little cold water; cook until thickened, 
then turn into molds first wet with cold water; serve cold with 
milk or cream. Heat fruit juices and treat similarly. 

BANANAS WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 

Remove the peel, cut into thin slices, and sprinkle with a very 
little sugar and a few drops of orange juice. Serve in small 
dishes, placing a tablespoonful of whipped cream on each dish. 

APPLE BUTTER. 

Pare, quarter, and core good, sweet apples; put them into an 
enameled saucepan with enough sweet cider, just from the press, 
to cover them; cook until clear and 
tender; then mash smooth with a wooden 
spoon, and boil until thick like marma- 
lade, which will require a considerable 
length of time. Cook very slowly, stir- Large Spoon. 

ring frequently to keep from burning. 

Put into small jars and cover closely. This is a simple and pala- 
table dish, and when properly made will keep indefinitely. 

PLUM MARMALADE. 

Wash the plums, cut them in halves, removing the stones, and 
cook for about fifteen minutes, allowing a scant cup of water to 
each quart of fruit. Then rub through a colander, add one cup of 
sugar to each quart of pulp, and boil slowly one hour, stirring often 
to prevent burning. 

GRAPE MARMALADE. 

Make the same as plum marmalade, only allowing half a cup 
of water to a quart of fruit for cooking. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Take the fruit when just ripe, remove the stems and blossom 
ends, wash, quarter, but do not pare or core unless wormy", and put 
to cook in a porcelain preserving pan with one cup of water for 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 47 

each six pounds of fruit. Cook slowly and only until tender, then 
strain through a jelly bag made of thin, white cloth; return the 
juice to a clean saucepan, boil for fifteen or twenty minutes, then 
add sugar, three-fourths of a pound to each pint of juice. Boil a 
few minutes longer, then test by dropping a little into cold water; 
if it sinks to the bottom , remove from the fire at once and pour into 
molds. The jelly may be flavored with lemon. 

QUINCE JELLY, 

Wash, wipe, and remove any imperfect spots, but do not pare 
or core them. Cut into small pieces, and place in the preserving 
pan with water enough to half cover them. Cook until tender, 
stirring frequently. Remove from the fire, and strain through a 
jelly bag, measure the juice, return to a clean saucepan, let boil 
fifteen minutes, then add sugar, three-fourths of a pound to each 
pint of juice. Boil up and skim; be careful not to boil too long as 
the color and quality will be affected by too much boiling. Test 
as in apple jelly. If found to be not quite thick enough, boil a 
little longer. When done, turn into the jelly cups at once. 

CURRANT JAM, 

Remove the stems, weigh the fruit, and wash. Put the currants 
into a kettle with half a pound of sugar for each pound of fruit, 
boil for about half an hour, removing any scum that may arise. 
Put into glass cans, and keep in a cool, dark place. 

HOW TO CAN FRUIT, 

GENERAL REMARKS, 

Bottling or canning fruit consists in sealing up in air-tight 
bottles or jars, fruit which has previously been cooked. Many do 
not appreciate the value of canning fruit because they have never 
tried it. But the process is so simple, and the result so satisfactory, 
that those who have ever given it a trial usually feel well repaid for 
the little effort put forth. 

Canning fruit practically lengthens the fruit season until it is 
perennial. Fruit, if properly canned, can be preserved, even for 
years, in a very natural and wholesome state. 

While it is true that in semitropical countries some kind of 
fruit can be obtained from the markets at most seasons of the year, 
it is both a matter of providence and economy to lay by, at a time 
when fruit is cheap and in season, for those times when it is scarce, 
high-priced, or unobtainable. A lesson can here be learned from 
the bee. During the summer, when the flowers are in bloom, it 
culls the sweet, that it may have a store of honey to eat in the 
winter hours. 



48 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 



It is very desirable to have the fruit fresh, as picked from the 
tree or vine; but many of the nicest and most juicy and delicately 
flavored fruits, such as strawberries, raspberries, currants, goose- 
berries, plums, blueberries, cherries, peaches, and apricots, are in 
season for only a comparatively short time. It is therefore of value 
to know how to preserve these for the unseasonable portions of the 
year. It is a matter of no little convenience for the housewife to 
have these delicious fruits in her house, ready for use at a moment's 
notice. But this can be the case only by having on hand a supply 
of canned fruit. 

Some may think that this supply of canned fruit can readily be 
substituted by the same kinds of fruit put up in jams, marmalades, 
etc., and that these can be purchased at reasonable prices at the 
stores all ready for use, and the trouble of preserving fruit oneself 
saved. While this may be true, the fruit prepared thus is not to 
be compared to fruit in its more natural state. The amount of 
sugar generally used in making jams and marmalades causes them 
to be too rich in saccharine matter, and consequently more liable, 
if freely used, to injure the teeth, cause acidiiy of the stomach, 
dyspepsia, and liver trouble, while nearly all, even dyspeptics, can 
eat simple stewed fruit of one kind or another without injury. 

SELECTING CANS. 

In canning fruit care should be taken to provide good cans and 
perfectly fitting covers. This is a matter of much importance. 
The Mason glass cans or jars, with the white 
porcelain lined covers and white rubber bands, 
are perhaps the best. It may seem a little 
expensive on the start to purchase these, but 
there is practically no further expense con- 
nected with them, aside from providing new 
rubbers or covers occasionally, as the jars can 
be used year after year, or until broken. Either 
the pint, quart, or two-quart jars may be used, 
as best suits the needs of the family. 

If a Mason can opener is not at hand, the 
process of opening the jars may be made easier 
by first running the edge of a thin knife blade 
around under the rubbers, care being taken not, 
by prying or otherwise, to injure the rubbers or 

After the fruit has been used from the jars, Mason Can * 
wash and dry them, place the rubbers inside, screw on the covers, 
and set away for future use. 

PROCESS. 

Select good, sound, fresh fruit, but not overripe, or it will be 
mushy and insipid when cooked. The larger fruits should not be 
quite as soft for canning as for eating. 




A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 



49 



Cook in a granite-ware or enameled saucepan or preserving 
kettle. Iron, tin, copper, or brass should not be used. 

Always cook slowly, as rapid boiling breaks up the fruit, and 
causes it to lose much of its nice flavor. 

Cook thoroughly and evenly, in small quantities, and in as 
little water as possible, fruit being better cooked in its own juice, 
which soon boils out. The length of time required for cooking 
will depend upon the kind and quality of fruit, hard and less ripe 
fruit requiring more time. 




Utensils for Canning Fruit. 



From two or three tablespoonfuls of sugar to a quart of fruit 
will generally be found sufficient for the milder fruits, the more 
tart, such as plums, currants, gooseberries, etc., will require from 
four to eight tablespoonfuls. • 

While the fruit is cooking, place the rubbers on the jars, and 
immerse two or three in a large pan of scalding (not boiling) 
water, laying them down if there is room. If the jars are new, 
put them in cold water, and gradually raise the temperature to 
prevent them from breaking. Likewise put the covers in a basin 
of hot water. Much depends oti keeping everything hot. 



50 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

Have ready an enameled dipper or cup, a cloth for wiping the 
outsfde of the jars, a spoon, fork, and a small pan in which to set 
the jars while being filled. 

When the fruit is well cooked, roll one of the jars over in the 
hot water, empty it, place it in the small pan, and quickly fill with 
the boiling fruit, putting in a little of the juice first. Fill to over- 
flowing. Skim off all foam or bubbles of air that come to the top. 
If any bubbles are seen in the fruit, pass a fork or spoon-handle, 
first dipped in hot water, down into the jar, slightly stirring, when 
they will come to the top and can be skimmed off. Wipe the 
juice from the top of the jar, and screw down the cover quickly 
and tightly. See that the rubber extends beyond the cover all 
around. Turn the jars upside down. 

As the fruit cools retighten the covers. Keep the jars upside 
down, and watch for a few days. If there is any leakage or sign 
of fermentation, the work is a failure, and the fruit should be 
opened at once, a little more sugar added, boiled, and used as 
soon as possible. If all is right, store in a cool, dark place for 
future use. If a proper place is not convenient, wrap the jars in 
brown paper to keep out the light. 

If the foregoing directions are carefully followed, there is no 
reason why the work should not be a perfect success. The author 
has put up from fifty to one hundred and fifty quarts each year for 
many years, and has rarely lost a quart. 

CANNED PLUMS. 

For each quart ol fruit, allow a half cup of sugar, and a cup of 
water for the syrup. Wipe the plums with a cloth, prick with a 
fork, drop them into the hot syrup, and cook until done. Or, 
pare the plums, and boil the skins in the water of which the syrup 
is to be made, straining them out by turning into a colander before 
putting in the sugar; then put in the plums, cook until done, 
and can. 

CANNED CHERRIES. 

Wash, and cook whole until tender, or remove the pits, and 
treat the same as canned berries (page 51), allowing nearly two 
cups of water and a half cup of sugar to a quart of cherries, if 
tart, and less sugar if of the sweeter kind. 

CANNED PEACHES. 

Select ripe, firm peaches, nearly soft enough to eat, avoiding 
the clingstones. The Crawford's are perhaps the best. Pare, 
divide in halves, removing the stones, and drop into cold water 
to prevent discoloring. For each quart of fruit pour a cupful of 
water into a saucepan, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and. let 
boil up; drain the peaches from the cold water, and put them into 



A FRIRND IN THE KITCHEN. 51 

the hot syrup; cook slowly for fifteen or twenty minutes, or until 
tender, and can according to foregoing directions. 

CANNED PEARS, 
Prepare the same as stewed pears (page 44), and can. 

CANNED BERRIES. 

Select those freshly picked; if necessary to be washed, place 
a few at a time in a colander and dip in and out of cold water; 
cook in a small quantity of water, adding the necessary sugar 
while boiling, and can. 

CANNED APPLES. 

Select fresh, nicely flavored apples, and proceed the same as 
with canned pears. 

STEWED QUINCES. 

Wipe with a cloth, pare, quarter, core, and divide each quarter 
into thirds. For each two quarts of fruit pour three cups of 
water into a saucepan, add nearly two cups of sugar, and let boil 
up; then put in the fruit, and cook slowly for an hour and a half, 
or until tender and of a rich pink color. Equal parts of quinces 
and apples stewed together are nice. 

CANNED QUINCES. 

Prepare and cook the same as stewed quinces, and can accord- 
ing to general directions. 

CANNED TOMATOES. 

Select smooth, ripe, meaty tomatoes; put into a pan, and pour 
scalding water over them to make the skins come off readily; 
then with a sharp, pointed knife remove the cores, pare, cut into 
thick slices, and cook nearly as much as for table use; put into the 
cans as soon as done, and screw the covers on tightly. It is very 
convenient to have a supply of canned tomatoes on hand for use 
in the preparation of soups and other dishes. 

FRUIT JUICES, 

For summer drinks, dressings for grains, and sauces for desserts, 
the pure juices of fruits are most wholesome and delicious. They 
are so serviceable and so easily prepared that no housewife should 
allow a fruit season to pass by without putting up a quantity. 
Blackberry, raspberry, blueberry, currant, cherry, and grape juices 
are especially nice. Only the best, ripe, but not overripe, fruit 



52 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 



should be used. To extract the juice from berries, crush, heat in 
a double boiler, strain through a jelly bag, let drain slowly, squeez- 
ing but little least the pulp be forced through . Reheat , and can the 
same as fruit, adding sugar or not, as preferred. Mixed juices 
often give a fine flavor, as currant and raspberry, or blackberry 
and mulberry. 

GRAPE JUICE. 

Take fresh, well-ripened, dark, juicy grapes, such as the Black 
Prince or Concord, pick from the stems, rejecting all that are 
imperfect; wash well, and put to cook in an enameled saucepan with 
a pint of water for each three quarts of grapes. Cook slowly for 
half an hour, or until the grapes burst open; then drain off the 
juice through a jelly bag, filtering the skins and seeds through a 
separate bag. Reheat, add one-half cup of sugar to a quart of 
juice if desired to sweeten, and can in jars the same as fruit; or, 
put in sterilized bottles, filling within an inch of the top, and 
cork at once with good, solid corks; cut off the corks close to the 
bottle, and seal over with sealing wax. Bottle the juice from the 
skins separately, as it will be less clear. Keep in a cool, dark 
place, and do not move about unnecessarily. 



^* t^ f *&* 




A WISE CHOICE. 




The first wealth is health. — Emerson, 

Vegetarians suffer little from thirst. — Hygienic Review. 

Let them give us pulse to eat, and water to drink. — Daniel. 

vSir Isaac Newton, when writing his great work, " Principia," 
lived wholly upon a vegetable diet. 

Body and mind are much influenced by the kind of food 
habitually depended upon. — 0. W. Holmes. 

e^* e<5* e^* 



WHILE not furnishing the most nutritious diet, vege- 
tables contain many nutritive elements in moderate 
degree, are rich in mineral substances, and being com- 
posed largely of water, perfectly supply many of the 
needs of the human system. Such vegetables, however, 
as peas, beans, and lentils, properly termed legumes, are 
highly nutritious. They are commonly understood to 
be of the nature of the " pulse " upon which Daniel the 
prophet subsisted in preference to the king's meat. 
While an exclusive diet of ordinary vegetables might fail 
to give sufficient nourishment to meet the demands of the 

[53] 




Carrots. 



Asparagus. 




Onions. Turkscap. 

SOME STAPLE VEGETABLES. 



[54] 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 55 

entire system, their use is valuable in furnishing it with 
a large quantity of organic fluids, and in giving bulk to 
the food. It is best to combine their use with other foods, 
such as grains, which supply the qualities lacking in the 
vegetables. 

Only fresh vegetables should be used. Those which 
are stale cannot be made wholesome and palatable by 
cooking. Their use imperils the health of the family, 
and is liable to cause serious illness. Herein lies an ad- 
vantage in having one's own garden. 

Care should be taken not to cook vegetables too much 
nor too little. They should be neither overdone nor 
underdone, but "just right." Cooking vegetables, 
grains, and fruits is advantageous, as it bursts the par- 
ticles of starch, and thus renders them more easy of 
digestion. 

While cooking vegetables, a good, steady fire should 
be kept up, and the kettle kept full of hot water for 
replenishing. 

Never replenish with cold water, but always with hot. 

A good rule to follow in cooking vegetables is to put 
to cook in hot water all vegetables that require to have 
the water drained off when done, and in cold water those 
that are to retain it. 

All green vegetables, such as onions, spinach, cab- 
bage, etc., should be put to cook in boiling, salted water; 
the dry vegetables, such as potatoes, carrots, beans, split 
peas, and lentils should be cooked in unsalted water. 
About a tablespoonful of salt should generally be allowed 
to a gallon of water, or one-third of a teaspoonful to every 
pint of cooked vegetables. 

In washing potatoes, a coarse cloth or brush may be 



56 A FRIEND IN THK KlTCHKN. 

used to advantage. If to be baked, they should be wiped 
dry before placing in the oven. 

It is a matter of both economy and improvement to 
pare potatoes very thin, as much of the mealiest and 
most nutritious portion lies next to the skin. 

As each potato is pared it should be dropped into a 
pan of clean, cold water; if allowed to fall back among 
the parings the potatoes will be dark and discolored when 
cooked. 

Potatoes should never be allowed to remain in the 
water in which they have boiled after they are done. It 
should 'be drained off immediately to prevent their becom- 
ing soggy and water-soaked. 

In baking potatoes the oven should be hot when they 
are put in, and the temperature increased rather than di- 
minished afterwards. 

Only dry, ripe, mealy potatoes are good baked. 

Onions should be boiled in two waters, first for about 
fifteen minutes with cold water put on, then drained off 
and boiling salted water added to finish. 

To peel tomatoes readily, first pour over them a little 
scalding water. This also applies to plums. 

t^r* £r* «^^ 

BOILED POTATOES (without skins)* 

Wash, pare thin, and drop into 
cold water to prevent discoloring. 
If not of a uniform size, cut the 
larger ones in two. Put to cook in 
only enough boiling water to prevent 
burning; cook gently from twenty to 
thirty minutes; when done, drain off 

all the water, place over the fire for a Saucepan, 

moment, then give the saucepan a 




A FRIEND IN THK KlTCHKN. 57 

vigorous shake, cover with a coarse cloth, and set on the back of 
the range to dry. 

Large quantities of potatoes are best cooked by steaming over 
boiling water. 

BOILED POTATOES (with skins). 

Select potatoes of even size ; wash clean with a cloth or brush, 
and remove the eyes and specks with a knife; put to cook in a 
small quantity of boiling water; drain when tender, and place 
the saucepan on the back of the range to dry; remove the skins 
and serve. Potatoes are best cooked this way. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Choose smooth potatoes of uniform size, wash well, being care- 
ful to clean the eyes. Dry with a cloth, and bake in a hot oven; 
in a slow oven the skins become thick and hard. Serve, as soon 
as done, in an open dish; if covered they will become soggy. 
Baked potatoes are very wholesome, and make a good breakfast 
dish. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Wash, pare, and boil the same as boiled potatoes. When they 
can be readily pierced with a fork, drain thoroughly; return to 
the range and mash, using the potato 
masher vigorously for five or ten 
minutes, until they are light, smooth, 

and creamy in appearance. A wire Potato Masher> 

potato masher does the work most 
satisfactorily. Have warmed in a saucepan a half cupful of 
cream or milk, adding a small piece of butter if milk is used, a 
teaspoonful of salt, and the well-beaten white of one egg; beat 
this into the potatoes until they are very light. Put into a warm 
dish and serve at once. If desired, the egg may be omitted. 
Very nice served with milk sauce or brown sauce. 

STEAMED SLICED POTATOES. 

Wash, pare, and slice several medium-sized potatoes very thin. 
Have in a frying-pan a small piece of butter and a half -cup of 
hot water, put in the potatoes, season with salt, cover closely, and 
set on the back of the range to cook slowly. Stir up a little occa- 
sionally. A few thinly sliced onions may be used with the pota- 
toes if desired. 

WARMED-UP POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into thin slices; heat a little milk to 
boiling in a saucepan; put in the potatoes and season with salt to 
taste. Let boil a few minutes and serve. If desired, the milk 



58 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

may be slightly thickened with a little flour blended in a little 
cold milk. 

POTATO CAKES. 

To two cups of well-mashed cold potatoes, add the well-beaten 
yolk of one egg; work well together, and form into small, round 
cakes about half an inch thick; place on buttered tins, brush 
over with the beaten white of an egg, and brown in a hot oven. 

NEW POTATOES. 

If new and fresh, the skins may be easily scraped off with a 
knife or rubbed off with a coarse cloth. Cook in a little water, 
drain, and serve; or, when done, drain, pour some nice, sweet 
milk over them, let it heat to boiling, then thicken with a little 
flour rubbed smooth in a little cold milk, allowing a tablespoonful 
of flour to a pint of milk, and season with salt. A few green peas 
cooked with new potatoes and thus dressed make a very accept- 
able dish. 

POTATOES WITH CREAM. 

Pare, and cut as many as desired into small cubes, put into boil- 
ing water and cook from fifteen to twenty minutes; when done, 
drain off all the water, let dry a few minutes over the fire, then 
add a little salt, a cup of thin crearn and a little chopped parsley ; 
simmer for two or three minutes, and serve at once. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Choose tho!5e of uniform size, wash thoroughly, removing anv 
imperfect spots, wipe dry, and place in a moderately hot oven; 
bake for about an hour if the potatoes are rather large. Small 
potatoes are better steamed than baked. Send to the table as 
soon as done, without removing the skins. Serve with cream, 
butter, milk sauce, or nut butter gravy. 

BOILED SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash well, put into cold water with the skins on, and boil 
until easily pierced with a fork; drain,, remove the skins and place 
in the oven to dry for five or ten minutes; serve in a hot dish. 

BROWNED SWEET POTATOES. 

Take cold, boiled sweet potatoes, peel, cut into slices, place on 
buttered shallow tins, and brown in a hot oven. 

ROASTED SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash, wipe dry, wrap with thin paper, and cover first with hot 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 59 

ashes, then with live coals. Turn occasionally. The coals may 
need renewing several times. When done, remove the ashes with 
a brush, wipe with a dry cloth, and serve. Sweet potatoes are 
nicer and more mealy when prepared in this way. 

YAMS. 

Prepare the same as roasted sweet potatoes or baked sweet 
potatoes. Boiling them is thought to quite spoil their flavor. 

STEWED TOMATOES, 

Take nice, fresh tomatoes, peel, and slice into a saucepan, and 
cook slowly for half an hour. Then add salt, a little butter or 
sweet cream, and a half cup of bread or cracker crumbs. Sugar 
may be added if desired. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Select smooth, even-sized, ripe tomatoes. Peel, remove the 
stems, and place in an earthen pudding dish; season with a little 
salt and butter or cream and bake in a rather hot oven for half 
an hour. 

TOMATOES AND MACARONI. 

Put to cook one-half cup of macaroni 
broken into inch pieces into three cups of 
boiling water; boil for about an hour, or 
until perfectly tender, adding more water if 
necessary. When done, put into a pudding 
dish, and pour over two cups of stewed toma- 
toes previously rubbed through a colander. Colander. 
Add a little salt, a few bits of butter, a half cup of sweet milk, 
and bake in the oven till done. If the tomatoes are quite juicy a 
teaspoonful of flour may be used for thickening. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Take two cupfuls of stewed fresh or canned 

tomatoes, rub through a colander, and thicken 

with a cupful of bread or cracker crumbs; add a 

c little salt, a few spoonfuls of cream, or half a cup 

of sweet milk and a few bits of butter, and bake 

for twenty or thirty minutes. 

TOMATO SALAD No. U 

Peel smooth, ripe tomatoes, cut into thin slices, and arrange in 
layers in a dish, sprinkling each layer with sugar. Turn over the 
whole a half cup of lemon juice before serving. 




60 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

TOMATO SALAD No. 2. 

Peel, slice, and place in a dish, and sprinkle lightly with salt. 
To the beaten yolk of one egg add the juice of one or two lemons, 
a teaspoonful of sugar, and pour all together over the tomatoes. 

BOILED BEANS. 

Wash and soak two cupfuls of beans overnight in cold water. 
In the morning drain, and put to cook in fresh water. After fif- 
teen minutes, if the water is very hard, add a pinch of soda, and 
boil for five minutes longer; then drain thoroughly, replenish 
with hot water, and cook slowly for about two hours, or until per- 
fectly tender. Add more hot water if they become dry, as they 
should be quite moist and soupy when done. Avoid much stir- 
ring. Season with a little salt, and butter or cream. 

BOILED BEANS WITH RICE. 

Wash and soak two cupfuls of beans in cold water overnight; 
in the morning put to cook, and after about an hour add one-half 
cup of well-washed rice. Cook slowly until done, season as above, 
and serve. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Take two cupfuls of beans, pick over, wash, soak overnight, 
and cook the same as boiled beans. When done, add a little 
butter and salt, and two tablespoonfuls of molasses; turn into a 
pudding dish, and bake for two hours, or until nicely browned. 
A little hot water should be added occasionally to prevent their 
becoming too dry. 

MASHED BEANS. 

Soak overnight two cupfuls of beans, and cook the same as 
boiled beans. When very tender, and the water nearly absorbed, 
rub through a colander to remove the skins; add a half a cup of 
cream or of rich, sweet milk and a little butter; put into a shallow 
dish, smooth the top with a knife or spoon, and place in the oven 
to brown. 

STRING BEANS. 

Wash, break off each end, stripping the strong fibres from 
end to end. Cut or break into inch lengths, and put to cook in 
enough boiling, slightly salted water to cover. Cook from one to 
two hours, or until very tender, the length of time required 
depending upon the age and variety of the beans. The water 
should be nearly absorbed when done. Add a little milk and 
butter if cream is not available. Let come to a boil, and serve. 



A ERlEND IN THE KITCHEN. 6 1 

SPLIT PEAS, 

Look over carefully, wash, and put to cook in a good quantity 
of cold water. Let come to a boil, then simmer until tender and 
the water quite absorbed. Press through a colander if desired to 
remove the skins, season with salt, and cream or butter, and 
serve. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Shell, and put to cook in boiling, slightly salted water, allowing 
one cupful of water to every four cups of peas. If they are old 
and need longer cooking, add more water if necessary. Cover, 
and cook rather slowly till tender. About thirty minutes' cooking 
for fresh, young peas will be found sufficient. When done, pour 
over a cupful of sweet milk, heat to boiling, and thicken with a 
little flour. Season with a little salt, and a spoonful of cream or 
a small piece of butter. 

LENTILS. 

Cook, season, and serve the same as split peas, only less water 
and less time for cooking will be required. 

BAKED RICE. 

Take one cupful of rice, wash well by turning into a colander 
and dipping in and out of warm water, put into a pudding dish, 
and pour over four cupfuls of milk, or two each of milk and water, 
adding a little salt. Bake about an hour, stirring once or twice 
before the top becomes hard. Serve as a vegetable with lentil 
sauce. 

PLAIN BOILED RICE. 

Wash one cupful of rice as above, and put to cook in a sauce- 
pan with a quart of boiling water, adding a half teaspoonful of 
salt; stir up once or twice as it begins to boil, then cover, and cook 
without stirring until the water is all absorbed ; remove the cover, 
and let dry a little on the back of the range, and serv» as baked 
rice, or with nut butter gravy. 

STEAMED RICE. 

Wash, and soak a cup of rice in a cup of water for an hour, 
then add a cup and a half of milk or water, a little salt, and 
steam over boiling water or in a steam cooker for one hour, stir- 
ring occasionally during the first ten minutes. 

STEWED CAULIFLOWER. 

Carefully separate into small portions; examine closely to make 
sure there are no insects on it; let stand a short time in cold 



62 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

water, then put into boiling, salted water, and cook from twenty 
to forty minutes, or until tender. Drain, season with a little but- 
ter or cream, or serve with milk gravy poured over it. 

CAULIFLOWER WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Prepare and cook as above. Take two cupfuls of stewed 
tomatoes, rub through a colander, heat to boiling, and thicken 
with a tablespoonful of flour blended in a little cold water; season 
with salt and butter or cream. Drain, and turn the stewed cauli- 
flower into a dish, and pour over it the hot tomato sauce. 

STEWED CABBAGE. 

Remove the outer leaves, divide into halves, cut very fine with 
a sharp knife, omitting the heart. Put into a saucepan with a 
half cup of boiling water, add a little salt, cover closely, and cook 
until tender, adding a little more hot water, if it becomes too dry 
before it is done. When done, add a few spoonfuls of cream, 
allow to heat, and serve. 

BOILED CABBAGE. 

Remove the outer leaves, place in cold water for half an hour, 
then quarter, and put to cook in boiling water, adding a little salt. 
Boil vigorously for about thirty minutes; turn into a colander, 
remove the heart and coarse portions, press out all the water, 
return to the saucepan, and season with butter or cream ; allow to 
heat, and serve on a hot dish at once. 

BAKED CABBAGE. 

Cut a firm, crisp head up fine ; cook in a little boiling, salted 
water until tender; drain, turn into a pudding dish, add two eggs 
well beaten, a half a cup of milk, and. a little salt; stir together 
and place in the oven to brown. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

Chop very fine half a smad head of crisp cabbage and put 
into a dish. Mix together two tablespoonfuls of sugar and the 
juice of two lemons, and pour over the cabbage; add a spoonful 
or two of thick cream, stir together, and serve. The cream may 
be omitted if preferred. 

CABBAGE AND TOMATO SALAD. 

Cut the cabbage as above, and put into a dish. Peel, and slice 
two or three large, ripe tomatoes, and place on the cabbage. 
Toss up lightly in the dish, sprinkle with sugar, and pour over 
the iuice of two jtemons. 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 63 

STEWED ASPARAGUS. 

Wash, break into small pieces, and cook from twenty to thirty 
minutes in just enough water to cover; when tender, drain, add a 
little butter and salt and a cup of milk; let come to a boil and 
thicken with a teaspoonful of flour. Boil up and serve. 

BOILED CARROTS. 

Wash, scrape, and drop into boiling water, and cook until 
tender. Drain, cut lengthwise or slice crosswise, and season with 
a spoonful of cream and a little salt. 

STEWED CARROTS. 

Wash, scrape, slice into a saucepan with a little boiling water, 
and cook until tender; add salt to taste, and a little chopped 
parsley if desired. Serve with or without milk gravy. 

BOILED PARSNIPS. 

Wash, scrape, drop into a little boiling water, and cook until 
tender; drain, mash fine, add a little salt and cream or butter to 
season, or cut the parsnips into thin slices, and serve with milk 
gravy 

BAKED PARSNIPS. 

Wash, and bake the same as potatoes; remove the skins when 
done, and serve with milk gravy. Or, wash, scrape, divide in 
halves, add a little more than enough boiling water to cook them, 
and boil slowly until tender; place in a shallow dish, pour over the 
juice that remains, add a little salt, a spoonful or two of cream, 
and place in the oven until nicely browned, basting occasionally. 

STEWED TURNIPS. 

Pare the turnips, cut into slices and cook until perfectly tender; 
then drain, mash fine with a spoon or potato masher, season with 
salt, a little butter or cream if desired, and serve. 

STEWED TURNIPS WITH MILK SAUCE. 

Pare, and wash; cut into thin slices or small cubes into a 
saucepan; cook for about twenty minutes in boiling water; then 
drain, add a cupful of milk, and season with salt. Allow the milk 
to heat to boiling, then thicken with a little flour. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Cut off the tops and bottoms, remove the outer skins, and put 



64 A FRIEND IN THK KITCHEN. 

to cook in cold water; boil fifteen minutes; then drain, and cook 
in boiling, salted water until tender; turn into a pudding dish, 
and cut into small pieces; pour over a cupful of hot milk gravy, 
add a few bits of butter, sprinkle the top with bread crumbs, and 
bake until brown. 

BAKED VEGETABLE MARROW. 

Pare, and cut in halves, remove the seeds and fibres, rub inside 
and out with salt, and let stand for an hour; mix together a turnip 
or potato and a few onions slightly boiled and chopped fine, season 
with a little powdered sage, add a little butter, a few bread crumbs, 
and salt to taste; then fill up the halves with this mixture, close 
the marrow, and tie together with twine; place in a dish, and bake 
until brown. Serve with brown sauce. 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Cut into sections, and place shell downwards on the top shelf 
of the oven. Bake until tender, and serve hot in the shell; or, 
scrape out the inside, mash, add a few spoonfuls of cream or a little 
butter, and serve. 

STEWED SQUASH. 

Peel, remove seeds, cut into small pieces, and stew until tender 
in a little boiling water; drain, mash smooth, and season with 
butter and salt. Vegetable marrows may be prepared in the same 
manner. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Soak one cupful of beans overnight. When ready to cook, 
add water and one cupful of dried sweet corn, and cook until 
tender. Season with salt, a little cream or butter, and serve. If 
green sweet corn is used, do not add it to the beans until they are 
nearly done. 

BOILED SWEET CORN. 

Select full-grown ears, not old and hard, but full of milk; 
remove the husks and silks, and put to cook in enough boiling, 
salted water to cover. Boil from thirty to forty minutes; when 
done, drain, and serve on the cob hot, with a little butter if de- 
sired. 

STEWED SWEET CORN. 

Remove husks and silks, stand the ears in a dish, and with a 
sharp knife cut off the corn from the top downwards, taking a 
little more than half of the kernel in depth; then scrape gently 
downwards to get the remainder of the milk and meat of each 
kernel. Place in a saucepan, add half a cup of water for each 
quart of corn, and cook for fifteen or twenty minutes. When done. 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 65 

add a little salt, a half cup of cream or a cup of milk and a little 
butter, boil up and serve. The milk may be slightly thickened 
with flour, if desired. 

BAKED BEETS, 

Take young, tender beets, wash clean, place in a baking dish 
with a little water, and bake from one to two hours, or until tender; 
add a little hot water occasionally if they become dry. When 
done, remove the skins, slice, and serve with lemon juice. 

BOILED BEETS. 

Cutoff the tops, but avoid cutting the beets; put to cook in 
boiling water. When tender, remove to a pan of cold water; rub 
off the skins with the hands, slice thin, and serve with lemon 
juice. 

BEET GREENS. 

Take the tops from young, tender beets, look over, put to cook 
in boiling, slightly salted water, and cook until tender ; then drain 
in a colander; chop rather fine, and serve with lemon juice. 

SPINACH. 

Look over carefully a good quantity of spinach, rejecting all 
wilted and decayed leaves. Wash thoroughly in several waters, 
and put to cook in slightly salted, boiling water, and boil from 
twenty to thirty minutes. When tender, drain in a colander, cut 
into coarse pieces, and put into a warm dish; add a few bits of 
butter, and garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs. Serve with 
lemon juice. 

CELERY. 

Remove all the green and decayed parts from the stalks, and 
put into cold water. When ready to serve place in a celery glass 
with the small ends downward. Curl the tops by cutting into 
narrow strips a little way down. 

SLICED CUCUMBERS. 

Pare the cucumbers, slice them very thin into a dish, sprinkle 
with salt, cov^r closely, and shake briskly to well distribute the 
salt; let stand for about half an hour; then drain off all the water, 
and shortly before serving pour over the juice of one or two 
lemons. A spoonful or two of cream may be added if desired. 
Cucumbers should be thoroughly masticated. Their reputed 
indigestibility is largely due to a failure in this particular. 



hb 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 



RADISHES. 

Wash, cut off the tops, small ends, and rootlets, and place in 
cold water before serving. Arrange in a glass dish with the large 
ends downwards. 

LETTUCE SALAD No. \. 

Separate the leaves, look over, wash, and put into cold water 
a while before using. When ready to serve, place on a dish and 
pour over a dressing made of equal quantities of lemon juice, 
sugar, and water. 

LETTUCE SALAD No. 2, 

Wash and shred two heads of lettuce. Boil two eggs until 
hard, remove the shells, and mash the yolks fine; mix well 
together the juice of one or two lemons, two or three tablespoon- 
fuls of water, one dessertspoonful of sugar, one-half teaspoonful 
of salt, one tablespoonful of sweet cream, adding this last to pre- 
vent curdling, and the yolks of the eggs, and pour over the 
lettuce. Cut the whites of the eggs into rings and arrange on the 
top. A few onions sliced fine may also be added. 




SWEET CORN. 




As a man eateth, so is he. — German Proverb. 

Lord Byron refused to eat meat because, as he said, " It makes 
me ferocious." 

The flesh of animals tends to cause grossness of body, and to 
benumb the finer sensibilities of the mind. — Bible Hygiene. 

The eating of much flesh fills us with a multitude of evil dis- 
eases, and a multitude of evil desires. — Porphyrises, 233 a. d. 

Animal food is one of the greatest means by which the pure 
sentiment of the race is depressed. — Alcott. 

The candidates for ancient athletic games were dieted on boiled 
grain with warm water, cheese, and dried figs, but no meat. 
Modern athletes are not allowed meat while in training. 

I have known men who prayed for a good temper in vain, until 
their physician proscribed eating so much meat; for they could 
not endure such stimulation. — Henry Ward Beecher. 

The liability to disease is increased by flesh eating. Where 
plenty of good milk and fruit can be obtained, there is rarely any 
excuse for eating animal food. — Christiafi Temperance. 

t£r* t&^* *£^ 



FROM the instruction given at the beginning respecting 
foods, it is evident the Creator did not design that 
either man or beast should subsist on flesh foods. To 
Adam and Eve He said: " Behold, I have given you every 
herb bearing seed, which is upon the face of all the earth , and 

[67] 



68 a friend in the kitchen. 

every tree, in which is the/™?'/ of a tree yielding seed; to 
you it shall be for meat. And to every beast of the earth, 
and to every fowl of the air, and to everything that 
creepeth upon the earth, wherein there is life, I have given 
every green herb for meat." Gen. i : 29, 30. 

But sin brought many changes into our world, and 
because of the changed circumstances, customs and prac- 
tises were instituted and allowed which were not in har- 
mony with the primeval order of things. Among other 
things meat-eating was permitted. Just after the flood, 
when the face of the earth had been desolated, God said to 
Noah : ' ' Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for 
you; even as the green herb have I given you all things." 
Gen. 9 : 3. But the blood was not to be eaten with the 
flesh, — a very wise provision, for if there is any disease in 
the system it is sure to be found in the blood. 

A little later, as a further precaution in the interests of 
health, instruction was given that only the flesh of ' 'clean 
beasts " was to be eaten, such as that of the ox, the sheep, 
the goat, the deer, etc. See Lev. 11 and Deut. 14. 

But for all this it must be admitted that the flesh of 
animals is not a natural diet for man, nor does it consti- 
tute the most healthful food. Of this it may truly be said 
as Christ said of the granting of a writing of divorcement, 
it was suffered because of the " hardness " of their hearts, 
" but from the begimiing it was not so." Matt. 19:8. It 
was never intended that man should take the life of any 
innocent, living creature. 

Meat-eating tends to excite the passions. This is seen 
in the animal kingdom. The animals that are mild, 
patient, and docile are generally herbivorous, such as the 
cow, the sheep, the horse; while the excitable, quick- 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 69 

tempered, and ferocious animals are meat-eaters, such as 
the lion, the tiger, the leopard. A meat diet also tends to 
constipation, the great scourge of the race. 

One object of this work, therefore, is in the interests 
of health and moral^, to educate people out of meat- 
eating rather than into it; and to supply such a variety 
of recipes for good, wholesome, palatable, and nutritious 
dishes, prepared from natural food elements, that meat- 
eating will be practically unnecessary. 

Moreover, so many animals at the present time are 
becoming so greatly diseased that it is not a little danger- 
ous to eat largely of their flesh. As a matter of safety 
the use of flesh meats might very consistently be dispensed 
with altogether. 

The fact, therefore, that meat may be cheap, or that it 
may be easily or quickly prepared, should count for little 
with those who have their best interests in view. 

From every standpoint from which the subject may be 
viewed, the reasons for discontinuing the use of flesh 
meats are more imperative now than ever before. 

1. This is an age of disease. Animals are coming to 
be greatly diseased. The use of their flesh, therefore, 
tends to increase disease in mankind, and thus to shorten 
life. 

2. This is an age of intemperance. Flesh meats are 
all more or less stimulating. Their use, therefore, tends 
to increase this evil. 

3. This is an age of surfeiting. Meat-eating is, to a 
large degree, responsible for this. A well-known English 
writer on cookery says: " No one will deny that the foods 
we are apt to eat too much of are those absent from a 
purely vegetarian fare, such as meat, game, fish, eggs, 
etc., upon which materials the culinary art seems exer- 
cised to tempt us beyond the satisfying of the appetite." 



70 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

4. This is an age of vice and immorality. A meat 
diet tends greatly to increase this terrible evil. 

5. This is an age of violence and murder. The prac- 
tise of killing and eating animals tends to harden men's 
hearts, to destroy their finer sensibilities, and thus to 
increase violence and crime. 

In the beginning God gave man no flesh foods to eat. 
And after the exode, when He had His own way with His 
own people, He gave them no flesh to eat. Before taking 
them into the promised land, for forty years He fed them 
on " manna, "a purely vegetarian food. Ex. 16 131; Num. 
11 17, 8. And when they " fell a lusting," and said, 
1 ' Who shall give us flesh to eat ? ' ' He was displeased 
with them, and, with the giving of the quails, brought a 
great plague upon them. Num. 11; Ps. 78 : 18-31. 

In the New Testament, the apostle, referring to this 
experience, warns Christians against falling into the same 
error. " Now these things," he says, " were our exam- 
ples, to the intent that we should not lust after evil things, 
as they also lusted. . . . And they are written for 
our admonition, upon whom the ends of the world are 
come." 1 Cor. 10:5-11. 

Evidently, therefore, meat-eating is not in harmony 
with God's original plan. And it must be that the 
nearer we bring ourselves into harmony with that plan, 
the better it will be for us. 

To some it may seem difficult to give up the use of 
meat. But in this, as in all reformatory work, much 
depends upon the mind. Eet the correct principle be first 
assented to; then, step by step, let the practise be brought 
into conformity to the principle, making changes gradually, 
if necessarv, leaving off the meat dishes as others more 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 7 1 

wholesome can be substituted. We should cultivate a 
love for that which we know to be good and healthful. 

To assist those who desire to make this dietetic reform, 
a few recipes are here given which will be found to be 
good substitutes for meats. 

t^r* t&* t&* 

VEGETABLE AND LENTIL STEW* 

Soak one-half cup of lentils in a cup of cold water for an hour; 
then put to cook in three cups of hot water with one turnip, 
three or four medium-sized potatoes, a small onion, and a stalk or 
two of celery, all cut into small pieces, and stew for about half an 
hour, or until well done, and the water quite absorbed. Season 
with salt, and serve with brown sauce. 

VEGETABLE HASH, 

Boil separately in a small quantity of water, three or four 
medium-sized potatoes sliced fine, two turnips, one carrot, and an 
onion, all cut into fine pieces; when done, drain, and turn all 
together into a saucepan ; season with salt, add a teaspoonful of 
dry, powdered sage, a half cup of sweet cream, or the same 
quantity of milk, and a small piece of butter, and heat to boiling; 
then stir in one or two tablespoonf uls of browned flour rubbed to 
a paste in a little cold water, cook a few minutes longer, and serve 
hot. 

POTATO ROLLS. 

Take two potatoes, one turnip, a small onion, a stalk of celery, 
and a little powdered sage; chop all into fine pieces and mix wed 
together, adding salt as desired. Make a paste as for pies, roll 
out rather thin, cut into squares, and place on each square as 
much of the mixture as it will hold ; wet the edges, and fold up as 
a sausage roll, pressing the dough together at the ends, place in a 
pan and bake from thirty to forty minutes in a moderate oven. 
Serve hot. Very nice. 

BREAD STEAK. 

Soak slices of stale bread or toast on a plate in a little milk or 
cream till slightly softened; sprinkle with a little salt; beat up 
an egg or two, dip in the slices, place in a hot frying-pan with a 
little butter, and brown on both sides. Serve with brown sauce. 



72 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

BAKED VEGETABLE GOOSE. 

Take a quart of stale bread crumbs and moisten with water or 
milk; then mix in a tablespoonful of dry, powdered sage leaves, 
salt to taste, a well-beaten egg, and a small onion or a few stalks of 
celery chopped fine. Make into a mound in a buttered pudding 
dish, pour over a spoonful or two of cream, and bake from thirty 
to forty minutes. Serve as soon as done. 

FORCEMEAT FRITTERS. 

Rub one tablespoonful of butter into two cupfuls of fine bread 
crumbs, adding a little chopped parsley or other herb flavoring, 
and season with salt; then add. one cup of thin cream or rich milk, 
and three eggs well beaten. Stir well, and bake in fritters, with 
thin slices of a hard boiled egg, in a hot frying-pan, or on a 
griddle, rubbed with a little butter, browning lightly on both 
sides. Serve with brown sauce. 

"PRAIRIE" FISH. 

Cut thick, cold, corn-meal or grits mush into slices about 
half an inch thick; roll in flour, and brown on both sides in a hot, 
buttered frying-pan; or brush with thick, sweet cream, and brown 
in the oven. 

BOILED MACARONI. 

If dusty, wipe with a dry cloth instead of washing, then take a 
cupful broken into small pieces, and put to cook in boiling, salted 
water; cook until tender, adding more hot water occasionally if 
necessary. When done, drain, and serve hot with a little cream; 
or pour over a pint of milk, heat to boiling, and stir in the yolk of 
one well-beaten egg and a little salt; or omit the egg, and thicken 
with a tablespoonful of flour rubbed smooth in a little cold milk. 

ROASTED PEANUTS. 

Take raw peanuts, remove the shells, place in a pan and roast 
in a slow oven until fairly well done, stirring frequently, and being 
careful not to scorch. Then put into a bag, tie up closely, and 
knead or roll on a table with the hands until the brown husks are 
well loosened; separate the husks from the nuts by turning from 
one pan into another in the wind. Peanuts prepared thus are 
highly nutritious. They should be served at the regular meal 
time, with breads or vegetables, or with raisins as a dessert. 

PEAS PUREE. • 

Soak a cupful or two, or as many as needed, of split peas over- 
night in cold water. In the morning wash, drain, and put to cook 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 



73 



in boiling water, and cook slowly. When very tender, and quite 
dry, mash smooth, season with salt and a little nice sweet cream, 
and serve hot. 

STEWED SALSIFY OR VEGETABLE OYSTERS. 

Wash, scrape, cut into slices about one-fourth of an inch in 
thickness, and drop at once into cold water to prevent discoloring. 
Then put to cook in an enameled saucepan, in a small quantity of 
boiling water, about equal parts water and salsify, adding a little 
salt. Cook from twenty to fifty minutes, according to age, and 
when tender add a little more water if at all dry, a cupful of cream 
or rich milk, and simmer for a few minutes. Have ready in a dish 
some slices of toasted bread cut in halves, pour over the salsify, 
and serve. 

OTHER TASTY DISHES. 

Ln addition to the foregoing recipes, baked beans, vegetable 
pie, savory soup, nut butter sandwiches, and other nut food prep- 
arations, found elsewhere in this work, are all excellent substi- 
tutes for meats, are tasty, and afford actually more nourishment to 
the system when in a normal condition than do meats, as may be 
seen by examining the table " Nutritive Value of Foods," on page 
123. 

i£r* t2P t2P 







Food should be prepared with simplicity, yet with a nicety 
which will invite the appetite. 

There should not be many kinds at any one meal, but all meals 
should not be composed of the same kinds of food without varia- 
tion. 

e^* e^** t2r* 



BOILED EGGS, 

If desired to have the white set, but the yolk a liquid, boil 
three minutes; if preferred to have the outer edges of the yolks a 
little hardened, boil four minutes. The water should be boiling 
when the eggs are dropped in. 

If desired to have the yolks dry and mealy, and at the same 
time the whites not hard, tough, and leathery, cook for twenty 
minutes in water a little below- the boiling point, or at a tempera- 
ture not above 165 Fahrenheit. Eggs are best cooked thus. 

For garnishing salads, etc., boil about ten minutes, then place 
a moment in cold water to prevent the whites becoming dis- 
colored. 

POACHED EGGS, 

Put into a shallow pan as much scalding, not boiling, water as 
will cover the eggs well; break the eggs one at a time into a 
saucer, being careful not to break the yolks, and slip them into 
the hot water, which should be kept below the boiling point. 
Let stand for about five minutes, or until the white is firm, but 
not hard, and the yolk enveloped in a film of white. Remove one 
at a time with a skimmer or large spoon, sprinkle with salt, and 
serve in egg saucers, on toast, or with the following sauce: Pour 
a half cup of water into a saucepan, add a teaspoonful each of 
lemon juice and butter, a little minced parsley, and salt to taste; 
let boil a few minutes, then stir in a well-beaten egg, being care- 
ful not to allow to curdle, and pour at once over the eggs in a 
dish. 

[74] 



Patty-Pan. 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 75 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

For each egg allow two tablespoonfuls of boiling water or milk. 
Break the eggs into a dish, beat lightly with a spoon, add a little 
salt, drop into the boiling water or milk, and stir briskly until set, 
but soft. They are nice thus served on toast. 

STEAMED EGGS. 

Break the eggs into egg dishes or patty-pans, 
sprinkle with salt, and steam over boiling water 
until the whites are set and a film covers the yolk. 
Serve with or without toast. 

SCALLOPED EGGS. 

Boil five or six eggs until hard; remove the shells, and cut the 
eggs into thin slices; put a layer of grated or fine bread crumbs 
into a buttered pudding dish, then a layer of the sliced eggs; 
sprinkle with salt, then add another layer of bread crumbs, then 
another of egg, and so on till the dish is filled, having a layer of 
crumbs for the top. Heat a cup of milk to boiling, and pour over 
the scallop; sprinkle over a few more crumbs, and bake until 
slightly browned. 

BAKED EGGS. 

Break the required number of eggs into a shallow baking pan, 
or small patty -pans, previously buttered to prevent sticking. 
vSeason with salt, and bake until set. Remove to a warm platter, 
and serve at once. 

EGG SANDWICHES. 

Mash the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, a sprinkle of salt, and 
a little chopped cress, smooth and fine; spread this on thin slices 
of bread slightly buttered, and press together. 

EGGS AND MACARONI. 

Put to boiling one cupful of macaroni broken into small pieces, 
and three or four eggs, in separate saucepans. Boil the eggs as 
directed for boiled eggs. When the eggs and macaroni are done, 
cut the eggs, after removing shells, into thin slices, and place 
alternate layers of macaroni and slices of eggs in a pudding dish, 
having the top layer of macaroni; sprinkle with salt. Heat a cup 
of milk to boiling, thicken with a small teaspoonful of flour rubbed 
to a paste in a little cold milk; pour over the macaroni, and place 
in the oven to brown. 




EMFB" 



PLAIN OMELET. 

Beat the yolks and whites of three eggs separately; allow one 
tablespoonful of milk to each egg. Stir the milk and yolks of 
the eggs well together and season with salt; then with a spoon 
carefully fold in the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Turn all 
into a hot frying-pan, sufficiently buttered to prevent sticking. 
Cook rather quickly, being careful not to burn. Carefully lift the 
edges of the omelet while cooking, with a knife or spoon, that it 
may be equally cooked. When well set, double one part over the 
other, remove to a warm dish, and serve at once, as an omelet is 
not so good when cold. It should be very light and tender, and 
nicely browned. 

FRUIT OMELET. 

Prepare as above, spreading a thin layer of any kind of jelly 
over one-half before folding the other half over it; add a sprinkle 
of sugar if desired. 

BREAD OMELET. 

For each person allow one egg, three tablespoonfuls of milk, 
and one tablespoonful of finely-grated bread crumbs; beat well 
together, and add a little salt; butter a deep plate or shallow pan, 
pour in the mixture, and bake in the oven until well set. 

MACARONI OMELET. 

Take a small handful of macaroni broken into small pieces, 
drop into hot water, and boil until tender; drain. Heat a cupful 
of milk to boiling, and stir in two even tablespoonfuls of flour 
rubbed smooth in a little cold milk. Stir until thickened; remove 
from the fire, add the macaroni, a few bits of chopped parsley, 
and four eggs well beaten; season with salt; pour all into a hot, 
buttered dish, sprinkle with a small handful of bread crumbs, 
and place in the oven till nicely browned; then turn out on a hot, 
fiat dish, and serve with brown sauce. 

[76] 




The proof of the pudding is in 
ISftJIir eating I 

Eat to live, but do not live merely to eat. 

Health is the greatest of all possessions, and 'tis a maxim with 
me, that a hale cobbler is better than a sick king. — Bicherstaff. 

In order to preserve health, temperance in all things is neces- 
sary — temperance in labor, temperance in eating and drinking. — 
Christian Temperance. 

i2& *&* *£* 

SAGO PUDDING, 

TO five cups of boiling water add a cup of sago, previously 
soaked in a cup of cold water for twenty minutes, two- 
thirds of a cup of sugar, and a half a cup of well-washed 
raisins. Cook all together till transparent, flavor with lemon or 
vanilla, and serve with cream or boiled custard sauce. 



SAGO PLUM PUDDING. 

vSoak for twenty minutes two-thirds of a cup of sago in enough 
cold water to cover. Add two-thirds of a cup of sugar, and stir 
all into four cups of boiling water. Cook slowly until trans- 
parent; then stir in one cup of stewed plums, which have been 
rubbed through a colander, and pour out into a dish. Serve with 
milk or cream. Raspberries, strawberries, or currants may be 
used instead of plums. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak one cupful of tapioca overnight in a pint of water. In 
the morning add one quart of milk, stirring gently, and boil 
about twenty minutes; then add the yolks of four eggs well 
beaten, and one cup of sugar, and boil a few minutes longer; pour 

[77] 



78 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

into an earthen dish, and flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla; 
cover with a meringue made of the whites of the four eggs 
beaten stiff, and four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and 
place in a slow oven to brown slightly. Serve cold. 

RICE PUDDING. 

Take a cupful of boiled rice, and a half cup of washed raisins, 
and mix together in a pudding dish. Beat well together two 
eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and two cupfuls of milk, and 
pour over the raisins and rice. Bake in a moderate oven until 
the custard is just set. If left in too long the milk becomes 
watery. This is a good way to use up left-over rice. 

CORNSTARCH PUDDING. 

Take three tablespoonfuls of cornstarch and stir smooth in a 
little cold water; over this pour one pint of boiling water; then 
stir in the whites of three eggs beaten stiff, one tablespoonful of 
sugar, and a pinch of salt. Steam fifteen minutes, or cook slowly 
until thickened. Serve cold with a sauce prepared as follows: 
Heat one cup of milk to boiling; beat together the yolks of the 
three eggs and one-half cup of sugar until creamy, and stir into 
the milk; boil until smooth, and remove from the fire at once. 
Flavor with lemon or vanilla, and allow to cool. 

BREAD PUDDING No. 1. 

Take one pint of bread crumbs, and pour over them one quart 
of milk; then add the yolks of four eggs well beaten, and four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, and bake in the oven. When done, 
spread the top with jelly or marmalade, and cover this with a 
meringue made of the four whites of the eggs beaten stiff, and two 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Brown slightly, and serve 
warm or cold, with or without sauce or cream, as preferred. 

BREAD PUDDING No. 2. 

Cut stale bread into cubes, and moisten with milk or water; 
then pour over a mixture of eggs, sugar, and milk, allowing one 
egg and one tablespoonful of sugar to each cup of milk. Steam or 
bake. Currants or raisins may be added. 

MACARONI PUDDING. 

Take a cupful of macaroni broken into inch lengths, put into 
a double boiler, turn over it three cups of milk, and cook slowly 
until tender. Then turn into a pudding dish, add a cup of cold 
milk, a half cup of sugar, and the yolks of two eggs well beaten. 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 79 

Bake for about twenty minutes. When done, let cool, then spread 
over the top some mashed fresh berries, or bits of jelly, and 
cover this with a meringue made of the whites of the eggs and a 
tablespoonful of sugar beaten to a froth. Return to a slow oven 
to brown slightly. 

APPLE SAGO PUDDING. 

Soak a good half cup of sago in three cups of water for one 
hour. Pare, quarter, and core a half dozen good cooking apples, 
and put them into a pudding dish. Pour the sago over the apples, 
add a little sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for from thirty to 
forty minutes. Serve warm or cold with a little milk or cream. 
The apples maybe pared, cored, and left whole, if preferred. 

BANANA PUDDING. 

Peel and slice two or three bananas into one pint of milk. 
Heat to boiling, add two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch stirred 
smooth in a little cold milk, one tablespoonful of sugar, and the 
yolks of two eggs well beaten. When thickened, turn into a 
pudding dish; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add a 
little sugar and spread over the top; put into the oven for a few 
minutes to brown slightly, and serve. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

Cook three cupfuls of prunes, drain off the juice, remove the 
stones, and sprinkle the prunes with lemon juice. Take two cups 
of fine bread crumbs, two cups of milk, one-half cup of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of butter, one-half teaspoonful of grated lemon 
rind, and one beaten egg; mix all together, and pour into a 
pudding dish. Then drop the prunes in evenly, and bake until 
set. Serve hot or cold, with or without sauce. The juice from 
the prunes may be heated, and slightly thickened with cornstarch, 
and used as a sauce. 

COLD PEACH PUDDING. 

Cut slices of stale bread into strips, and line a pudding basin 
or round mold as neatly as possible. Then fill the center of the 
mold with stewed fresh, or canned peaches, slightly warmed, add 
sugar to sweeten, and place a slice of bread over the fruit. Pour 
over enough of the sirup or fruit juice to soak all the bread. 
Take a saucer or plate about the size of the mold, and place it 
upside down on top, over the pudding, and put a heavy weight on 
the plate. Let stand overnight, and in the morning turn into a 
glass dish for the table. Cut into slices, and serve with milk or 
cream. Raspberries or strawberries may be used instead of 
peaches. 



80 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

FIG PUDDING* 

Take half a pound of finely-chopped figs, one cupful of bread 
crumbs, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, two tablespoon fuls of 
melted butter, one cupful of milk, two eggs well beaten, and a 
pinch of salt. Stir all well together, turn into a double boiler, 
slightly buttered, or into a saucepan placed in boiling water, and 
boil about an hour. Serve with lemon sauce. 

RICE LEMON PUDDING, 

To three-fourths of a cupful of well-washed rice, add three 
cupfuls of boiling water, and a half teaspoonful of salt, and cook 
in a double boiler until tender. When done, allow to cool, then 
add the yolks of three eggs well beaten, a teaspoonful of butter, 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and one 
cup of milk; stir together, and bake in the oven until set. When 
done, cover the top with a meringue made with the whites of the 
eggs beaten stiff, two-thirds of a cup of sugar, and the juice of 
one lemon; place in the oven to brown slightly, and serve either 
warm or cold. 

RICE APPLE PUDDING No. U 

Boil one cup of rice in one quart of salted water until nearly 
done; peel and slice four large, good cooking apples, or six small 
ones, stir them into the rice, and cook for about twenty minutes, 
or until the apples are soft. Serve with cream, fruit juice, or milk. 

RICE APPLE PUDDING No. 2. 

Boil two tablespoonfuls of well-washed rice in half a pint of 
milk until soft; then stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs and 
sugar to sweeten. Make a wall with the rice around a dish; fill 
the center of the dish with stewed apples, and cover the whole 
with the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth; sprinkle with 
powdered sugar, and brown lightly in the oven; serve with cream 
or milk. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Take ordinary bread dough, add enough butter to make tender, 
let rise, then roll out to about one-third of an inch in thickness, 
and cut into four-inch squares. Place a small quantity of sliced 
tart apples in the center of each square, gather up the edges and 
pinch them together, then place on a shallow pan a little distance 
apart, and let rise; when light, rub over them a cloth dipped in 
milk to make them crisp and glossy, and bake. Serve with cream 
and sugar, fruit sauce, or the juice of some fruit. Fresh rasp- 
berries, blackberries, cherries, or other fruit may be used instead 
of apples. 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 8 1 

BOILED APPLE DUMPLINGS, 

Proceed as for baked apple dumplings, only after letting rise, 
tie up loosely in a cloth, drop into boiling water, and boil until 
the apples are tender. Dough made as for milk biscuits may be 
used instead of bread dough. 

CORNSTARCH BLANC-MANGE. 

To one quart of milk add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and 
heat just to boiling; then stir in five tablespoonfuls of cornstarch 
mixed thoroughly with two well-beaten eggs; flavor with lemon 
or vanilla, and pour out into cups, previously wet in cold water, 
to mold. Place a mold of jelly in the center of a platter, and 
arrange the molds of blanc-mange around it. A portion of the 
blanc-mange may be colored and flavored with chocolate, so that 
each alternate mold on the platter will be brown. Serve with 
cream. 

APPLE BATTER PUDDING. 

Pare and slice six medium-sized cooking apples into a buttered 
pudding dish, adding sugar to sweeten. Make a batter as follows: 
Beat three eggs to a foam; then add five tablespoonfuls of sifted 
flour, sprinkling it in while beating vigorously, and half a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Stir in gradually enough milk to make of the 
consistency of thick cream, beat well, and pour over the apples, 
and bake until done. Serve with cream or milk. 

APPLE TRIFLE. 

Pare, quarter, core, and stew six or eight apples to a pulp, 
adding the juice and grated rind of a lemon. When done, add 
sugar to sweeten, and turn into a deep glass dish. Heat a pint 
of milk to boiling, stir in three well-beaten eggs, saving out the 
white of one, and two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and cook until 
thickened. When cold pour over the apples in the dish. Beat 
the white of the egg to a stiff froth and drop by spoonfuls into a 
pan of boiling water for a moment, turn, then remove, and use to 
ornament the pudding. 

APPLES WITH TAPIOCA. 

Soak a cupful of tapioca in two cupfuls of cold water for an 
hour; then spread on a clean white cloth, and place some pared 
and sliced apples, sugar, and grated lemon peel in the center; 
tie up the cloth loosely so that the tapioca will surround the 
apples, and put into boiling water; boil half an hour or until 
done; then turn out the whole into a dish and serve with boiled 
custard, whipped cream, or fruit jelly. 



b2 A FRIKND IN THE KITCHEN. 

FRUIT TAPIOCA. 

Cook three-fourths of a cup of tapioca in four cups of water 
until smooth and transparent. Stir into it lightly a pint of fresh 
or canned strawberries, raspberries, or blackberries, adding sugar 
as required. Serve cold with cream, or a pint of fruit sauce. 

PEACHES AND RICE. 

Soak a cup of rice in one and one-fourth cups of water for 
an hour; then add a cup of milk and a little salt, turn into a 
double boiler, cover, and steam for an hour, stirring occasionally 
for the first ten or fifteen minutes. When done, pour into a mold 
to cool, then turn out into a glass dish. Stew fresh or dried peaches 
in halves, and arrange them around the rice; pour the sirup or 
juice over the whole. 

RICE WITH RAISINS. 

Wash and put to cook rice as directed above; after the rice has 
begun to swell, add a cupful of well-washed raisins. When done, 
serve with fruit juice, milk, or cream. 

RICE WITH FIGS. 

Soak and cook the rice as directed for peaches and rice. 
Wash a small quantity of figs and stew with a little sugar until 
thoroughly done; serve a spoonful of the figs with each dish of 
rice. The fig sauce should be so thick that it will not run over 
the rice. 

APPLES WITH RAISINS. 

Pare, quarter, and core half a dozen good cooking apples. 
Wash a small cup of raisins, and put to cook in a quart of boiling 
water. When they have begun to swell, add the apples, a little 
sugar to sweeten, and cook until tender. 

COCONUT PUDDING. 

To one pint of milk, add two tablespoon fuls of desiccated 
coconut, and heat to boiling; remove the coconut by turning 
through a strainer; then add to the milk one-half cup of sugar 
and one-half cup of fine cracker or bread crumbs, cool a few 
minutes, then add the beaten yolks of two eggs. Turn into a 
pudding dish, set it inside a pan of hot water, and bake in the 
oven until set but not watery. Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth, add two teaspoonfuls of sugar, and spread on the top 
of the pudding; return to the oven to brown slightly. 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 83 

CHERRY PUDDING. 

Soak a half cup of tapioca, and cook in a pint of water until 
transparent. Have ready in a pudding dish a pint of fresh, pitted 
cherries; sprinkle them with sugar, then pour over them the 
cooked tapioca, and bake for half an hour in a moderate oven. 
Serve with or without cream. 

RICE AND FRUIT PUDDING. 

Cook one small cup of well-washed rice in a quart of boiling, 
slightly salted water until tender. Then add one teaspoonful of 
butter, one beaten egg, and one-fourth cup of sugar. Grease a 
pudding mold, and sprinkle with fine bread crumbs. Put in a 
layer of rice one-half inch thick, then a layer of drained canned 
or stewed fruit, then rice again, and so on till the mold is full. 
Just before serving, turn out of the mold onto a warm dish. 
Serve with a sauce made out of the sirup drained from the fruit; 
heat it to boiling, and thicken with a little cornstarch. Or serve 
with a vanilla custard sauce made of one cup of milk heated to 
boiling, one egg, one tablespoonful of sugar, and vanilla to flavor. 

MINUTE PUDDING. 

Put one quart of milk into the inner vessel of a double boiler, 
or into an ordinary saucepan greased with a little butter, and heat 
to boiling; then stir in two small cups of flour, sifting it in a little 
at a time, and stirring briskly, that no lumps may be formed. 
Just before removing from the fire add two well-beaten eggs, stir 
a moment, and serve at once with cream, and a little sugar if 
desired. If preferred, the eggs may be omitted. 

ARROWROOT BLANC-MANGE. 

Heat a pint of milk to boiling; then stir in two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of arrowroot rubbed smooth in a half cup of cold milk, 
and a half cup of sugar; cook for a few minutes until thickened, 
stirring well, and pour into cups or molds previously wet in cold 
water, to cool. Serve with stewed fruit or fruit juice. 




Simplicity is the highest art. 
Many dishes have induced many dis- 
eases. — Seneca. 

Study simplicity in the number of dishes, 
*' and variety in the character of the meals. 

It is not the chief end of man to gratify his appetite. — Christian 
Temperance. 

t^r* f£r* t&* 



CREAM MOLD. 

Heat two cups of milk to boiling; then add one-half cup of 
sugar, and three tablespoonfuls of ground rice, wet in a little cold 
milk; flavor with vanilla, and stir well until it thickens; pour into 
cups or molds previously wet in cold water, until set, then turn 
out on a large plate or into little dishes. Have ready a cup of 
whipped cream, and put some over each mold with a bit of jelly 
in the center of each, or serve with fruit sauce. 



BOILED CUSTARD. 

Put one quart of milk and one-half cup of sugar into the inner 
vessel of a double boiler, let heat to boiling, then stir in slowly 
three eggs well beaten, and one tablespoonful of cornstarch 
rubbed smooth in a little cold milk; add any flavoring desired. 
Stir well, and when well set, turn into a dish to cool. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Put a pint of milk into a double boiler; let heat to boiling, 
then add the well-beaten yolks of three eggs mixed with three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Stir well, and when done turn into the 
dish from which it is to be served. Beat the whites of the eggs to 
a stiff froth, and drop by spoonfuls for a few seconds into a pan of 
hot water; let them stand for a moment, then turn over, but do 
not allow them to harden. Remove with a skimmer or spoon, 

[84] 



A FRIEND IN THE) KITCHEN. 85 

ana put as islands on the top of the custard; let cool, then place 
bits of jelly on top of the islands. 

APPLE FLOAT, 

To one pint of nice stewed apples, add the whites of three eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, and four tablespoon fuls of white sugar; beat 
all together until very stiff. Have a glass dish filled with boiled 
custard made with two cups of milk, the yolks of the eggs, one 
teaspoonful of cornstarch, a tablespoonful of sugar, and flavoring 
if desired. Pile the apples on top, and serve. 

BANANA CUSTARD. 

Slice six bananas into a deep dish. Heat one pint of milk to 
boiling; beat together one egg, one tablespoonful of sugar, and 
one dessertspoonful of cornstarch blended with a little milk, and 
stir into the hot milk; let boil up once or twice, then pour over 
the bananas, stirring them in. 

ORANGE CUSTARD. 

Remove the peel from three large oranges, cut in halves, and 
rub through a colander. Heat one pint of milk to boiling, then 
add a tablespoonful of cornstarch dissolved in a little cold milk, 
and the beaten yolks of three eggs. When thickened, allow to 
cool, then stir in the oranges. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth, add two-thirds of a cup of sugar, and spread on the top of 
the custard; place in the oven till slightly brown; serve cold. 

PINEAPPLE CUSTARD. 

Make a custard of one quart of milk, two-thirds of a cup of 
sugar, and four eggs: heat the milk to boiling in a double boiler; 
then add the eggs and sugar beaten together. Stir well, and when 
done set aside to cool. Have a nice, ripe pineapple picked to 
pieces with a fork, and sprinkled with sugar. Just before serving 
the custard stir in the pineapple. 

CORNSTARCH MERINGUE. 

Heat three cups of milk to boiling, then stir in gradually two 
tablespoon fuls of cornstarch rubbed smooth in a little cold milk. 
When thickened, allow to cool a little, and then add, stirring con- 
tinuously meanwhile, the yolks of two well-beaten eggs mixed 
with three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Simmer for a minute or two 
longer, turn into a dish, meringue the top with the whites of the 
eggs beaten stiff, place in a slow oven to brown slightly, and when 
cold, dot with bits of jelly. 



86 A FRIKND IN THK KITCHEN. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Wash, and soak four even tablespoonfuls of tapioca in a cup of 
water until soft; then add a little salt and a pint of milk, and heat 
j ust to boiling in a double boiler, or a saucepan set in hot water, 
when add the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and one-half cup of 
sugar; cook for a few minutes, then turn into an earthen dish; 
when cool , spread over the top the whites of the eggs beaten stiff 
with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, adding vanilla or lemon flavor- 
ing, if desired; place in the oven to brown slightly. 

RICE CUSTARD. 

Wash one-half cup of rice, and cook in a double boiler in three 
cups of water or milk, or equal parts of each, until tender, adding 
a little salt; then add, while still on the range, one pint of milk, 
the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and five tablespoonfuls of 
sugar; stir gently, and cook only until thickened. Then turn into 
a pudding dish. Beat well the whites of three eggs, add three 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, flavor with lemon or vanilla, 
and spread over the top of the custard; place in a slow oven to 
brown slightly, and serve warm or cold. 

RICE MOLD CUSTARD. 

Wash one-half cup of rice, and cook as above. When done, 
mold in cups, filling about half full, and serve with a boiled custard 
made of one pint of milk, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, a tea- 
spoonful of cornstarch, and one egg. 

CUSTARD WITH FRUIT SAUCE. 

Make a boiled custard of a pint of milk, three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, and the yolks of three eggs; turn into a dish to cool. Heat 
a pint of strawberry, raspberry, blueberry, currant, or plum juice 
to boiling, then stir in two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch mixed 
smooth in a little cold water; stir until thickened, when add sugar 
to sweeten; take from the fire, stir in the stiffly -beaten whites of 
the eggs, and when cool, place by spoonfuls on top of the custard, 
and serve. 




Rich sauces and highly-seasoned dishes provoke thirst. — Scl. 

Rich sauces are even worse than heaping several meats upon 
each other. — Pliny. 

i2r* t2r* xgr* 



Sauces for Vegetables* 



TOMATO SAUCE No. U 

TAKE two cups of strained, stewed tomatoes, heat to boiling, 
stir in a tablespoonful of flour or cornstarch blended with 
a little cold water, add a little cream, or a small piece of 
butter, and salt to taste. 

TOMATO SAUCE No. 2. 

Boil one pint of fresh or canned tomatoes with a little onion, 
salt, and herb-flavor, then strain through a colander, and add 
one tablespoonful of flour browned with a teaspoonful of butter. 

MILK SAUCE. 

Brown a teaspoonful of butter in a frying-pan, then pour in a 
pint of milk, and heat to boiling; thicken with two tablespoonfuls 
of flour blended with a little cold milk, and cook a few minutes 
longer, stirring well. Season with salt. This is nice served on 
toast or mashed potatoes. A little celery may be simmered in the 
milk a little while before thickening, to flavor, if desired. 

LENTIL SAUCE. 

Rub a cupful of cooked lentils through a colander into a 
saucepan; add a cup of milk and a little sauce. When come to 
boiling, stir in a tablespoonful of browned flour rubbed smooth in 
a little cold milk. Add a little chopped parsley, if desired. For 
browned flour see page 18. 

[87] 



88 A FRIEND IN THE KlTCHKN. 

BROWN SAUCE No. U 

Put a teaspoonful of butter into a frying-pan, and brown 
slightly; then pour in a pint of niilk, and heat to boiling; stir in 
two tablespoonfuls of browned flour rubbed to a paste in a little 
cold water or milk; season with salt, boil until thickened, and 
serve. 

BROWN SAUCE No. 2. 

Put a tablespoonful of butter into a frying-pan; when melted, 
sprinkle in a tablespoonful of flour, stirring until nicely browned; 
then add enough boiling water to make of the consistency of 
cream, stirring constantly to prevent lumps from forming. Add 
salt to taste. 

EGG AND MILK SAUCE. 

To a pint of milk add a tablespoonful or two of cream, or a 
teaspoonful of butter, and heat to boiling; then stir in one even 
tablespoonful of flour rubbed smooth in a little cold water or milk; 
let boil a few minutes, stirring constantly; then stir in rapidly the 
well-beaten yolk of one egg; season with salt, boil up, and serve. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Take fresh, green mint, wash, and chop very fine. Put into a 
glass, and for each two tablespoonfuls of mint allow one table- 
spoonful of sugar, and the juice of one lemon diluted with an equal 
amount of water. 

t^r* t£r* t2^* 

Sauces for Desserts* 

ARROWROOT SAUCE. 

Heat one cup of water to boiling; then add one teaspoonful of 
sugar, and one sin nil tablespoonful of arrowroot mixed smooth in 
a little cold water, stirring briskly. In a few minutes remove 
from the fire, and flavor with lemon or almond. Nice for pud- 
dings. 

BOILED CUSTARD SAUCE. 

Beat together in a saucepan, two eggs, one tablespoonful of 
sugar, and one-half teaspoonful of cornstarch. Place over the fire 
one cupful of milk, and as soon as it begins to boil pour it over the 
eggs in the saucepan; stir well, place over the fire to boil until it 
thickens, then pour into a pitcher, and flavor if desired. 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 89 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of shaved chocolate with two cupfuls of 
sweet milk and heat to boiling; then add the well-beaten yolks of 
two eggs, stirring briskly; boil a few minutes until thickened, and 
remove from the fire; add the whites of the eggs, which have been 
beaten to a stiff froth, and two tablespoonfuls of white sugar. Nice 
with cornstarch blancmange. 

ORANGE SAUCE. 

Heat a pint of water to boiling, and thicken with a tablespoon- 
ful of cornstarch; add a cupful of orange juice extracted from nice, 
sour oranges, a small piece of the yellow rind for flavoring, and 
sugar to sweeten; the beaten yolk of an egg may be added if 
desired; remove the orange rind before serving. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

To a pint of boiling water add a slice or two of lemon, and 
thicken with a small tablespoonful of cornstarch; remove the 
lemon, cook a few minutes until clear, then add two-thirds of a 
cup of sugar, the juice of one lemon, aud a beaten egg if desired; 
boil up, cool, and serve. 

FRUIT SAUCE. 

Obtain the juice of raspberries, strawberries, grapes, currants, 
or any larger fruit, by simmering for a short time with a little 
water, and straining through a thin cloth; heat the juice to scald- 
ing, then slightly thicken with cornstarch rubbed smooth in a 
little cold water, allowing a tablespoonful of cornstarch for each 
pint of juice; cook a few minutes till thickened, and sweeten to 
taste. Three or four tablespoonfuls of fruit jelly dissolved in a 
pint of hot water makes a good substitute for fruit juice if the 
latter is not available. 

WHIPPED CREAM SAUCE. 

Beat separately one cup of cold sweet cream, and the whites of 
two eggs, beating each to a stiff froth. Mix one-half cup of 
powdered white sugar with the eggs, a teaspoonful of vanilla or 
lemon extract, then add the cream, beating all well together. 
Have the cream cool, or the beating will turn it to butter. 




" To keep in health this rule is wise: 

Eat only when you need and relish food, 
Chew thoroughly, that it may do you good, 
Have it well cooked, unspiced, and undisguised." 

Food for repentance — mince pie eaten late at night. — Sel. 

He who eats till he is sick must fast till he is well. — Sel. 

tgr* f£T* *&* 

ONE of the greatest objections to pies is that they are 
generally made too rich. When a large amount of 
grease is employed in making the crust, and the filling is 
seasoned heavily with spices and various condiments, they 
can hardly fail to be unwholesome. 

But pies need not be made in this way. If proper in- 
gredients are used, and simplicity is studied in making 
them, there is no reason why they should be seriously 
objectionable. 

There are two styles of pie in general 
use, one baked in a deep dish, fre- 




quently with only a top crust, the other 
Pic Dish. in a shallow dish, usually with two 

crusts, an upper and an under. Custard, cream, lemon, 
and pumpkins pies, however, have only an under crust. 
Most of the recipes here given are for the shallow pies 
with two crusts. 

Custard, pumpkin, and other pies in which milk and 
eggs are used, should be baked in a slow oven. They 
fqol 



A FRIEND IN THK KITCHKN. 91 

will also be improved if the milk used be hot. To stir 
beaten eggs into the hot milk, add a few spoonfuls of cold 
milk to the eggs, then pour into the hot milk, a little at 
a time, stirring well. 

The filling for pies should always be prepared before 
making the crust, unless the crust is to be baked first. 
All the material should be cold, except for custard and 
pumpkin pies, and should be put together quickly, han- 
dling as little as possible, and without kneading the 
dough. 

When the paste is ready, take sufficient for one crust, 
and roll out on a floured board quickly and lightly until 

about an eighth of an 

inch in thickness, and a 

little larger than the pie 

Roiiing-Pin. dish, as it will shrink 

when lifted from the board. When rolled thin, flour the 

pie dish, cover smoothly with the crust, and fill, adding 

what sugar is required to sweeten. 

If there is to be a top crust, roll it out in the same 
manner, and make a few ornamental cuts in the center to 
allow the steam to escape. Wet the edge of the lower 
crust, and lift on the upper crust, press- 
ing the edges together so > that the juice' 
may not escape. Trim away the over- 
hanging portions, and with the thumb Pie * 
and fingers press the edge into a scalloped or ornamental 
wall, as shown in the accompanying cut. Especially 
should this be done when only an under crust is used, 
that the pie may be handled with greater ease. It also 
adds to the appearance of the pie. Pies are generally 
better eaten the same day they are baked. 




92 A FRIEND IN THE) KITCHEN. 

PLAIN PIE CRUST. 

For each pie with two crusts take two small cups of sifted flour, 
and work thoroughly into it three tablespoonfuls of butter, adding 
a little salt; wet with just sufficient cold water to make a rather 
stiff dough; mix quickly, roll out thin, and bake as soon as the 
pie can be made. A good crust may be made with olive oil, or 
fresh coconut oil, instead of butter, using about the same quantity. 

CREAM PIE CRUST. 

Take two scant cups of fine, sifted flour, or equal parts of fine 
flour and graham flour, add a little salt, and moisten with enough 
cold, thin sweet cream to make a rather stiff dough; roll out thin, 
place in the pie dish, fill, and bake quickly. 

CORN-MEAL PIE CRUST. 

For a medium-sized pie with two crusts take a cupful each of 
white flour and corn-meal, a little salt, the yolk of one egg well 
beaten, and about one-third cup of cold, thin sweet cream or rich 
milk; sift the flour and meal together, add the salt, then, with a 
spoon, stir together lightly and quickly with the egg and milk; 
gather up the fragments, and without kneading, roll out thin, 
place in a floured pie dish, fill, and bake at once. This makes a 
good, wholesome crust. 

APPLE PIE. 

Pare, core, and slice thin, tart ripe apples; line the pie dish with 
a crust, and fill with the apples; sprinkle with sugar, and add two 
or three tablespoonfuls of cold water. Roll out the upper crust, 
make a few cuts in the center for the steam to escape, wet the edge 
of the lower crust, and cover with the upper crust; press together, 
and cut away overhanging portions; place in the oven, and bake 
until a light brown. Apples that do not cook quickly may be 
stewed before making into pies. Apple pie when cold is very nice 
served with sweet cream. 

PEACH PIE. 

Pare, remove stones, and make the same as apple pie. 

GOOSEBERRY PIE. 

Remove the stems and blossom ends, wash, and fill a pie dish 
lined with a crust. Add a half cup of sugar, and sprinkle with 
flour. Prepare the upper crust the same as for apple pie, cover, 
and bake. To prevent the juice from running out while baking, 
make a paste of a teaspoonful of flour and a little water, and brush 
over the edge of the under crust before putting on the top crust. 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 93 

If desired, beat together the white of an egg and a tablespoonful of 
fine sugar, and meringue the top of the pie when done; return to 
the oven, and brown slightly. 

RHUBARB PIE, 

Wash, strip off the skin, and cut the stalks into thin slices. 
Line a pie dish with crust, and fill with the rhubarb. Sprinkle over 
a half cup of sugar, and a tablespoonful of water. Wet the edges 
of the lower crust, place on a top crust rolled thin, in which a 
few openings have been made; press the edges together, trim, and 
bake. Equal portions of rhubarb and apples may be used in the 
place of all rhubarb. 

RASPBERRY PIE. 

Look over the raspberries, line a pie dish with a crust and fill 
with berries; add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, sprinkle with flour, 
and proceed as with gooseberry pie. 

BLACKBERRY PIE, 

Look over about one pint of blackberries, and proceed the same 
as for raspberry pie. Blueberry pie may be made in the same way. 

CHERRY PIE, 

Take nice ripe cherries, remove the stones if preferred, and 
make the same as raspberry pie, adding sugar according to the 
acidity of the fruit. 

DRIED CURRANT PIE. 

Wash the currants in two or three waters through a colander 
to remove sand and grit, and stew; line a pie dish with crust and 
fill with the currants, pouring in a small quantity of the juice; 
sprinkle with two tablespoonfuls each of flour and sugar, cover 
with a crust, and bake in a hot oven till done. It should not be 
made too dry. 

PRUNE PIE, 

Wash the prunes well in warm water, rinse, and put to cook in 
plenty of water, cover, and stew slowly from one to two hours. 
When done, put through a colander to remove stones and skins. 
Bake with two crusts. Very little sugar will be needed. If the 
pulp is quite juicy, a tablespoonful of flour may be sprinkled over. 

LEMON PIE. 

To one cupful of boiling water, add one heaping tablespoonful 
of cornstarch blended with a little cold water. Boil up, and 



94 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

remove from the fire, and stir in two-thirds of a cup of sugar; let 
cool, then add the beaten yolks of two eggs, and the juice and 
grated rind of a lemon. Bake with under crust only; when done 
meringue the top with a tablespoonful of sugar and the whites of 
the eggs beaten stiff; return to a slow oven to brown slightly. 

LEMON RAISIN PIE. 

Stir together the juice and grated rind of one lemon, one cup of 
cold water, and one tablespoonful of cornstarch; add one-half cup 
of sugar and a cup of chopped seedless or seeded raisins; bake with 
upper and under crusts. 

DRIED APPLE PIE. 

Take good dried apples, wash, and soak for several hours, or 
overnight, in sufficient cold water to cover them. Stew, without 
draining, until soft; mash fine, adding lemon flavoring and sugar 
to sweeten; bake with two crusts, or ornament with strips or 
lattice-work crust on top. A few stewed blackberries or rasp- 
berries may be added to the apples. 

DRIED PEACH PIE. 

Stew until soft, mash to a pulp, add sugar to sweeten, and make 
the same as dried apple pie. If desired, one-third apricots may be 
used. 

RAISIN PIE. 

For three pies, boil one pound of raisins for an hour in enough 
water to cover them; add the juice of a lemon, and a small cup of 
white sugar. Line the pie dishes with crust, fill with raisins and a 
little of the juice, and sprinkle two tablespoonfuls of flour over 
each pie. Bake with two crusts. 

CREAM PIE. 

Put one cup of milk to scald in a double boiler. Beat together 
two eggs, leaving out the white of one, two even teaspoonfuls of 
sifted flour stirred smooth in a little cold milk, and two heaping 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. When the milk is scalding hot, add this 
mixture, and stir for a minute or two until it thickens. It is better 
not to cook after it is thick, and the less it is stirred, except to 
keep it from forming into lumps, the better; add vanilla or lemon 
to flavor. Line the pie dish with a crust, pricking well with a 
fork to prevent blistering, and bake in a quick oven; then put the 
cream, which is already sufficiently cooked, into the baked crust. 
Beat the white of the egg to a stiff froth with a tablespoonful of 
sugar, and spread on top of the pie. Place in the oven to brown 
slightly. 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 95 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Line a pie dish with a crust, prick well with a fork, bake, and 
fill with the following: Three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
and one teaspoonful of flour; beat thoroughly together, and add 
milk enough to fill the dish. Bake slowly until set, but do not 
allow to boil. To be eaten cold, but on the same day it is baked. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Cut the pumpkin in halves, remove the seeds, cut in slices, and 
stew until dry and soft. Mash smooth, and for each pie take one 
cup of stewed pumpkin, one-third cup of sugar, two eggs, and 
about a pint of milk. Beat the eggs and sugar together, stir in the 
pumpkin, and, lastly, add the milk; mix well, and bake with an 
under crust only, until the custard is set. Squash may be used 
instead of pumpkin. If more convenient, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour may be used in place of the eggs. A tablespoonful or two of 
molasses may also be added if desired. 

What moistens the lip, and 

What brightens the eye, 
What brings back the past, 

Like a good pumpkin pie ? 

— Whittier. 

PIE WITH UPPER CRUST ONLY. 

Take a deep pie dish, place a small cup upside down in the 
middle of it, and fill the dish with fruit, adding sugar as desired. 
Place a border of crust around the edge of the dish, put on the top 
crust, ornament the edges, and bake. 

TARTS. 

Line shallow pie dishes or patty-pans with good crusts, fill with 
the fruit, and bake. When done, remove from the oven, and 
sprinkle with fine sugar. 

Small tarts may be made by rolling crust out thin, and cutting 
in shapes with a cake cutter, using half of them for the under 
crust, and the other half for tops ; ornament by cutting small 
holes in the center with a thimble or small fancy mold. Bake 
quickly, and when done put together with fruit jelly. 

VEGETABLE PIE. 

Boil for a short time several potatoes and onions, after which 
slice them into a deep, buttered pie dish in layers; add to each 
layer a little sage and well-steeped tapioca, and season with salt. 
Cover with a crust and bake. A very economical and wholesome 
pie. 



96 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

SAVORY PIE. 

Soak one-half cup of tapioca in one cup of cold water for one 
hour. Moisten enough stale bread in cold water to make three 
cupfuls; put into a dish and rub in two tablespoonfuls of butter 
and one of flour. Then mix in one-half cup of stewed fresh or 
canned tomatoes, two beaten eggs, one small onion chopped fine, 
one tablespoonful of powdered sage, and salt to taste. Put into a 
buttered pudding dish and pour over the tapioca. Boil two eggs 
until hard, remove shells, cut into slices, and place on top of the 
tapioca; add a few bits of butter, cover with a crust, and bake in a 
moderate oven for twenty or thirty minutes. Serve hot. 

ONION PIE. 

Take equal portions of onions and apples. Remove the outer 
skins from the onions, boil for ten minutes, drain, cut into small 
pieces,and put into a deep pie dish; add a tablespoonful of dry sage 
rubbed fine, two small tablespoonfuls of butter, a little water, and 
salt to taste. Pare, core, and slice the apples over the onions, 
sprinkle lightly with sugar, cover with a crust, and bake. 

CARROT PIE. 

Cook the carrots until soft in slightly salted water; mash very 
fine, or rub through a colander. For each pie take one-half cup 
of carrots, one-half cup of sugar, two eggs, and two small cups of 
milk; stir well together, and bake in a shallow pie dish until set, 
with an under crust only. 

MERINGUE FOR PIES. 

To each stiffly beaten white of an egg, add a tablespoonful of 
sugar, and spread on the pie after it is baked and allowed to cool 
slightly; place in the oven for a few minutes, which should not be 
too hot, or the covering will be tough and leathery. 




Feed sparingly, and defy the physician. — Sel. 

Who lives to eat, will die by eating. — Sel. 

Whoever eats too much, or of food which is not healthful, is 
weakening his powers to resist the clamors of other appetites and 
passions.— Christian Temperance. 

The best seasoning for food is hunger. — Socrates. 

Reason should direct, and appetite obey. — Ciceto. 

Men should be temperate in eating as well as drinking. — Dr. 
Brandreth. 

t2?* t&* &F* 



TO make cake, get everything in readiness before be- 
ginning. Mix the ingredients in a granite-ware, 
enameled, or earthen basin. Sift the flour before using. 
If baking-powder is used, sift together with the flour two 
or three times. Use white sugar unless brown is called 
for. 

Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately; the 
yolks until they cease to foam, and the whites to a stiff 
froth. Kggs will beat to a stiff er 
froth if cold, and beaten in a cold 
dish, and in a cool room. Use 
earthen or china bowls or plates to 

[97] 




Dover Egg-Beater. 



98 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

beat eggs in — a bowl if an egg-beater is employed, and a 
plate when a fork or egg-whip is used. The Dover egg- 
beater is doubtless the best. 

First rub the butter and sugar to a cream, then add 
the beaten yolks of the eggs, and beat and stir well; then 
the milk and flour, and lastly the beaten whites of the 
eggs. 

Have the oven less hot for cake than for bread, but 
hotter for thin cake than for loaf cake. A cake is baked 
when a clean broom-straw may be passed through the 
thickest part without any dough adhering to it. If it is 
necessary to move the cake about after putting it in the 
oven, it should be done carefully, as jarring it in any way 
is liable to make it fall and become heavy. 

A tube cake pan, as shown in the 
accompanying cut, is very good for 
baking ordinary cakes, as the tube 
causes the cake to bake more evenly, 
Cake Pan. and renders it less liable to fall. 

To prevent cake from sticking to the pan, rub the pan 
with cold butter, and sprinkle with flour before turning 
in the batter. 

If raisins or dried currants are used, they should first 
be carefully looked over, washed and dried, and then 
dusted with flour. The raisins should also be seeded. A 
good way to wash these fruits is to put them into a 
colander, set the colander in a pan of warm water for a 
short time until they become plump, which will loosen the 
sand and grit, and then rinse by dipping the colander in 
and out of clean water several times. . Then spread the 
fruit on a clean cloth to dry. The raisins may easily be 
seeded just after being washed in this way. 




A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 99 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Take three eggs, beat one minute; then add one and one-half 
cups of sugar, and beat five minutes; then one cup of flour, and 
beat one minute; add one teaspoonful of baking-powder in one 
more cup of flour, and one-half cup of cold water, and beat one 
minute. Flavor to taste, and bake. 

ROYAL SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat separately the whites and yolks of three eggs till very stiff. 
Boil one cup of sugar with four tablespoonfuls of cold water until 
it strings or thickens. Put whites and yolks together, pour in the 
hot sirup, and beat till lukewarm; sift in a cup of flour, flavor, 
and bake in two layers. Put together with jelly, frost, and 
sprinkle over desiccated coconut. Very nice. 

LEMON SPONGE CAKE. 

Take four eggs, one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice with a little of the grated rind, and one cupful of flour. Beat 
the yolks of the eggs to a foam, then beat in the sugar, adding a 
little at a time; add the lemon juice and grated rind; beat the 
whites of the eggs until very stiff, then lightly fold and chop them 
into the mixture. Sift the flour slowly into the mixture, and care- 
fully fold it in. Do not beat after the flour has been added. Bake 
in a rather shallow pan in a moderately quick oven. 

SPONGE LAYER CAKE. 

Take three eggs, six heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar, and one 
small cup of flour. Beat the yolks of the eggs and add to the 
sugar; beat the whites to a stiff froth, and carefully stir into the 
mixture; then sift in the flour slowly, and carefully stir it in. Add 
flavoring if desired. Bake in three shallow tins, and, when done, 
put together in layers with fruit jelly. 

LEMON LAYER CAKE. 

Take one cupful of sugar, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, three-fourths of a cup of cold water, two cupfuls of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Bake in three shallow tins, 
and put together in layers, with a jelly made of three-fourths of a 
cupful of sugar, one egg, and the juice and grated rind of a lemon, 
stirred thoroughly, and cooked over steam. 

RAISED FRUIT-CAKE. 

Make a sponge of one cup of rich milk, previously scalded and 
cooled to lukewarm, one and. one-half cups of flour, one-half cup 



IOO A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

of sugar, and three tablespoonfuls of good lively yeast. Beat well 
together, and let rise until light; then add another half cup of 
sugar and a half cup of flour. When risen the second time, add 
two eggs well beaten, one-half cup of currants, one cup of seeded 
raisins, and one-half cup of flour. Place in a bread pan until very 
light, and bake. 

CREAM CAKE. 

One cupful each of sugar and sweet milk, one egg, one table- 
spoonful of butter, two cupfuls of flour, and two teaspoonfuls of 
baking-powder. Bake in three shallow tins. Make a filling to put 
between the layers as follows: Heat one cupful of milk to boiling, 
then add one-fourth of a cup of sugar, one dessertspoonful of flour 
rubbed smooth in a little of the cold milk, and one beaten egg. 
Boil until thickened, and place between the layers. 

CORNSTARCH CAKE. 

'Take the whites of three eggs, one-half cup of cornstarch, one- 
half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of sweet milk, 
one cup of flour, and one teaspoonful of baking-powder. Mix the 
butter and sugar to a cream; dissolve the cornstarch with the milk, 
and add to the butter and sugar; sift the baking-powder into the 
flour, and stir into the mixture, and lastly fold in the whites of the 
eggs which have been beaten stiff. Bake at once in a moderate 
oven. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Into two quarts of sifted flour rub thoroughly one and a half 
teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, half a teaspoonful of salt, and two 
tablespoonfuls of butter; add enough sweet milk to make a soft 
dough; roll out slightly, and bake in a shallow pan. When done, 
split open with a sharp, heated knife, and cover the lower half 
with a generous layer of ripe, crushed, sweetened strawberries; 
then place the other half of the shortcake on the top of this, cover 
it with a few of the crushed berries, and serve with cream. Peaches 
or raspberries may be used in the same manner. 

FIG CAKE. 

Take one cupful of sugar, two-thirds of a cupful of sweet milk, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, two cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking-powder, and the whites of four eggs. Sift the flour 
before measuring. Rub the sugar and butter to a cream, add the 
milk, the flour, and baking-powder, and, lastly, the whites of the 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Add any flavoring desired, and bake 
in three layers. Cook together for ten minutes one-half pound of 
figs chopped fine, one small cupful of water and one-half cupful of 
sugar, and spread between the layers. 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 



NUT CAKE, 



Mix one and one-half cups of sugar and two table spcoufu's of 
butter to a cream; then add two well-beaten eggs and one cup of 
milk; sift two tablespoon fuls of baking-powder with two cups of 
flour, and stir into the mixture. Lastly stir in one cupful of nuts 
crushed with a rolling-pin, or chopped very fine. Stir well, and 
bake in a moderate oven. Walnuts, hickory nuts, and butternuts 
are best for this cake, but other nuts will do. 

GEM CAKE 

Beat to a foam the yolk of one egg, one cup of sugar, and one 
cup of cold sweet cream; a little grated lemon rind may be added 
for flavoring. Stir in slowly, beating thoroughly, two cupfuls of 
flour into which a heaping tablespoonful of cornstarch has been 
sifted. Beat until light and smooth; then add the well-beaten 
whites of two eggs, stirring just enough to mix them in. Turn 
into heated gem irons, previously buttered, and bake in a rather 
quick oven. 

COOKIES. 

Take one cup of white sugar, three tablespoonfuls of butter, 
one egg, two tablespoonfuls of sour cream or milk, and one-fourth 
teaspoonful of soda. Dissolve the soda in a spoonful of hot water, 
and add to the milk, then mix all together with enough flour to 
make a soft dough. Roll out thin, sprinkle over with sugar, pass 
the rolling-pin over lightly, cut in shapes with a cake cutter, and 
bake on shallow tins in a quick oven. 

FROSTING FOR CAKE. 

Beat the white of one egg until stiff, then gradually add five 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; beat very hard; add any flavor- 
ing desired. To color it a delicate pink, add a little currant or 
strawberry juice; a yellow tint may be obtained by grating the 
rind of an orange or lemon, using two tablespoonfuls of the juice, 
straining through a cloth, and adding to the frosting. 

BOILED FROSTING. 

Boil one cupful of sugar and two tablespoonfuls of water in a 
saucepan until clear, without stirring; then pour it upon the stiffly 
beaten white of an egg, stirring well together, and spread over the 
cake with a knife, which dip frequently into cold water. Flavor 
to taste, and color as desired. 




^hole<§om<^ 



DriKRs 



Write it underneath your feet, 
Up and down the busy street; 
Write it for the great and small, 
In the palace, cottage, hall, — 
Where there's drink there's danger. 

—Selected. 

Water is best. — Pindar. 

Tea is a stimulant; sale coffee is a hurtful indulgence. 

Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging; and whosoever is de- 
ceived thereby is not wise. — Solomon. 

If you wish to keep mind clear and body healthy, abstain from 
all fermented liquors — Sydney Smith. 

Many who never touch alcohol ruin their health by tea. — 
Hygiene Review. 

Temperance is the parent of health, cheerfulness, and old age. 
—George Mogridge. 

t£r* f2r* t&* 

CEREAL COFFEE, 

Take three cups of bran, one cup of corn-meal, oatmeal, or 
grits, one- third cup of molasses, and one egg; beat the egg and 
molasses together, and mix thoroughly with the bran and meal. 
Place on shallow tins, bake in a moderate oven until a dark brown, 
stirring frequently, taking care not to burn. If inclined to be 
lumpy, take out, roll out fine with a rolling-pin, and return to the 
oven until thoroughly browned. It may then be 
ground through a coffee-mill before putting away 
for use. For every cup of coffee required allow 
one heaping tablespobnful ; pour boiling water over 
Coffee Strainer, it, and steep, not boil, for fifteen or twenty minutes. 
More may be used for greater strength if desired. 
Strain through a wire coffee strainer. Serve with plenty of cream 
[102] 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 



I03 



or milk, warmed is better, and a little sugar if desired. When 
properly prepared this will be found to be a very smooth and pal- 
atable drink. The egg may be omitted, and a little more molasses 
used if preferred. 

CRUST COFFEE. 

Brown slices of stale bread, either white or brown, in the oven 
slowly until a dark brown; when done, break into small pieces or 
roll fine with a rolling-pin. Allow one cupful of boiling water to 
a tablespoonful of the browned crumbs; let steep a few minutes, 
strain, and serve with cream and sugar. 

CORN COFFEE. 

Brown common field corn as brown as possible 
without burning; then pound, or grind coarsely in 
a coffee-mill, and place in a covered can ready for 
use. In making the coffee, mix the white of an 
egg with three tablespoonfuls of the ground grain , 
pour over three or four cups of boiling water, and 
steep for ten or fifteen minutes. Serve with cream 
and sugar. 




Coffee-Mill. 



Peas, wheat, barley, or rice may be prepared in the same way. 

HOT MILK. 

Heat the milk in a double boiler until the surface becomes 
wrinkled. It should be drunk a few sips at a time. A bowl of hot 
milk and brown bread forms a nourishing meal. Many who feel 
that they need a stimulant would find in a glass of this simple 
beverage a substitute far more satisfying and enduring in its effects. 

CAMBRIC TEA. 

Take two parts boiling water and one part milk, adding a little 
sugar to sweeten. This makes a very simple but pleasant and 
wholesome drink. 

LEMONADE NO. U 

For each glass of lemonade take one-half lemon and two tea- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Extract the juice with a lemon drill, or squeeze 
it into the glass on the sugar, being careful to remove 
all seeds and white portions. Fill the glass with cold 
water. More or less sugar may be used according to 
the size of the lemon and the acidity of the juice. 
The juice will be extracted more easily if the lemon 
is first rolled or squeezed till soft. The beverage will 
also be improved if a tin cup is placed tightly over the 
glass, and all well shaken. A glass fruit j ar will answer the purpose . 




Lemon Drill. 



104 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

LEMONADE NO. 2. 

For each quart desired, take the juice of three or four lemons, 
and the rind of one. Peel the rind very thin, getting just the 
yellow; place it in a pitcher with the juice of the lemons and from 
four to six tablespoon fuls of white sugar. Pour over enough hot 
water to make a quart in all ; cover at once, and let stand until 
cold; or pour over a spoonful or two of boiling water to dissolve 
the sugar, and add the necessary quantity of cold water. 

HOT LEMONADE. 

Pare a few thin bits of rind from a lemon, and place in a pitcher; 
pour over a pint of boiling water, cover, and let stand for a few 
moments. Pour enough boiling water over a tablespoonful of 
sugar in another vessel to dissolve it; cut the lemon in halves, 
extract the juice, and add to the dissolved sugar; remove the peel 
from the water, stir in the lemon juice and sugar, and serve. 

ORANGEADE. 

Choose nice, juicy, ripe oranges, and make the same as lemon- 
ade Nos. i and 2, only using less sugar. This will be found a much 
nicer drink than many may imagine. Try it. 

FRUIT JUICE LEMONADE. 

To a pint of lemonade prepared according to foregoing recipes, 
add a half cup of strawberry, raspberry, blackberry, or currant 
juice. This gives a nice color to the lemonade, besides improving 
its flavor. 

PINEAPPLE LEMONADE. 

Make the lemonade as indicated above, and flavor with a few 
spoonfuls of pineapple juice. 

GRAPEADE. 

Take two pounds of thoroughly ripe purple grapes, crush, and 
strain the juice through a coarse cloth or jelly bag. Add to the 
juice three tablespoonfuls of white sugar, and dilute with sufficient 
cold water to suit the taste. 

FRUIT JUICE DRINKS. 

Take a small quantity of the juice of any stewed fresh, or canned 

. fruit. Dilute with water, and add sugar according to the acidity 

of the juice. When fruit juice is not available, similar drinks may 

be made by dissolving fruit jelly in warm water and allowing to 

cool. Such drinks are especially refreshing for the sick. 




O blessed health! thou art above all gold and treasure. He 
who has thee has little more to wish for; and he who is so 
wretched as to want thee, wants everything with thee. — Sterne. 

Give a wise man health, and he will give himself every other 
thing. — Col ton. 

It is health that makes your meat savory, your drink palatable, 
your sleep refreshing, your delights delightful, and your pleasures 
pleasurable. — Combe. 

iSr' *£& Jr* 

THE following specially prepared health foods are 
beginning to be manufactured, and a brief descrip- 
tion of their nature, and a few directions for their use, 
therefore, may be of service here.* 

<^* t^r* t^F* 



Granola* 

Granola is a grain preparation thoroughly cooked and 
partially digested. It contains a large amount of nutri- 



Note— These foods may be obtained by addressing St. Helena Sanitarium 
Health Food Company, St. Helena, California, or Battle Creek Sanitarium Health 
Food Company, Battle Creek, Michigan. See notice in back of this look. 



8 



[I05] 



106 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

ment in small bulk, is digested in one hour, and is there- 
fore especially adapted for persons with weak digestion 
and defective assimilation, but is an excellent food for all. 
It may be eaten with hot or cold milk or cream, served 
with fruit juices, made into puddings, used in soups, or 
in the place of bread crumbs for scalloping vegetables. 
Reheating in the oven occasionally keeps it fresh and 

crisp. 

GRANOLA MUSH, 

Heat one quart of milk or water to boiling, add a very little 
salt if desired, then sprinkle in two cupfuls of granola; cook for 
a few minutes until thickened, and serve hot with cream, milk, 
stewed fruit, or fruit juice. An excellent and quickly-prepared 
breakfast dish. 

GRANOLA FRUIT MUSH. 

Prepare the same as granola mush, and stir into it one cupful 
of steamed seedless or seeded raisins, or currants. Or, heat to 
boiling equal parts of grape or other fruit juice and water, and 
thicken with granola. Serve with cream. 

GRANOLA GEMS, 

Into one and a naif cups of milk, stir two cupfuls of granola. 
Heat the gem irons, slightly butter them, and drop in the batter. 
Bake for twenty or thirty minutes. 

i2^ t&* x&^ 

Granose* 

This is another grain preparation in the form of light, 
crisp flakes. Eaten dry, it is a remedy for most forms 
of indigestion, and, when eaten freely, is one of the best 
of all foods for curing constipation. It may be eaten 
with milk, cream, or fruit juice, the same as granola. 
Freshly heating renders it both crisp and delicious. 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 107 

GRANOSE PUDDING. 

Stir well together one pint of milk, one and one-half cups of 
granose, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, and one egg well beaten. 
Turn into a pudding dish, which place in a pan of hot water, and 
bake slowly in the oven for about an hour. 

GRANOSE FRUIT-CAKE. 

Take a shallow pudding dish, cover the bottom with rasp- 
berries, strawberries, or other small fruits, then add a layer of 
granose, thus alternating until the dish is full. Let stand in a 
cool place for an hour, then cut into slices, and serve with milk 
or cream. 

GRANOSE BISCUIT. 

Take the prepared granose biscuit, and treat the same as toast, 
serving with milk or cream, poached eggs, asparagus, stewed fruits, 
or fruit juices, or with soups. 

$<£* ?*£* t^* 

Nut Butter* 

Nut butter is a preparation from nuts, and is a sub- 
stitute for butter and cream. It may be used in all 
dishes in which the latter are used, from one to two 
tablespoonfuls of it being used where one cup of cream 
or one tablespoonful of ordinary butter is used. A small 
quantity mixed to a cream with a little hot water is a 
nice addition to soups, is excellent used with caramel 
cereal, and the cereal drinks in the preceding depart- 
ment, and with vegetables and grains generally. 

NUT BUTTER CREAM. 

Into the nut butter stir in with a spoon cold water until of the 
consistency of cream, and use the same as ordinary cream. Only 
the quantity needed for each meal should be prepared at a time. 

NUT BUTTER GRAVY. 

Take one tablespoonful of nut butter rubbed smooth in a little 



I08 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

hot water, and stir into one pint of boiling water; to this add two 
even tablespoonfuls of browned flour mixed smooth in a little cold 
water. Salt to taste, boil a few minutes, and serve the same as 
milk gravy. 

NUT BUTTER PIE CRUST, 

For each cup of flour take one tablespoonful of nut butter, and 
proceed as with ordinary shortening, adding a little salt, and suffi- 
cient cold water to make a rather stiff dough. A little corn-meal or 
grits used with the flour will make the crust more tender with 
less shortening. 

NUT BUTTER SANDWICHES. 

Take thinly-cut slices of graham or white bread, spread with 
nut butter, adding a few finely-chopped dates, figs, or raisins, and 
press the slices together. 

c^* ^* c^ 1 * 

Protose* 

This is also a nut product, and is intended as a sub- 
stitute for meat. It may be prepared and served in 
much the same way as flesh foods, which it resembles 
somewhat in both appearance and flavor. While it 
possesses nearly twice their nutritive value, it is free 
from their objectionable features. Protose makes a good 
flavoring for soups, and is excellent cooked with vege- 
tables. 

STEWED PROTOSE. 

Into a pint of boiling water put an equal quantity of protose 
cut into half-inch squares, and cook in a double boiler for two 
hours. A sliced onion, a little parsley, or a few bits of celery may 
be added for flavoring a little before it is done. Season with salt, 
and serve hot. 

ROAST PROTOSE. 

Take one pint of granola or toasted bread crumbs, one pint 
of water, one cup of stewed, strained tomatoes, and one-half 
pound of protose cut fine; add a little finely-powdered sage, and 
salt to taste; mix all well together, and bake in shallow pans 
until brown. 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. IO9 

PROTOSE SANDWICHES, 

Spread thin slices of brown or white bread or milk biscuits 
with nut butter, and place between them thin slices of protose. 

Caramel CereaL 

This is a harmless and nutritious substitute for tea 
and coffee, both of which are now generally recognized 
by the best physicians as harmful beverages, and the 
cause of many nervous disorders. It is made wholly 
from grain products, and is coming to be recognized as 
an excellent drink the world over. 

CARAMEL CEREAL. 

Allow one dessertspoonful of the caramel cereal for each cup 
of the beverage required, and steep from ten to twenty minutes; 
serve with milk or cream, or with nut-butter cream, prepared 
according to a preceding recipe. 



£ & &£$§£. 




Tor The 



^5>!l^€, 



Health— thou chiefest good, 

Bestow'd by Heaven, 
But seldom understood. — Lucan. 

Diet cures more than doctors.— Scotch Proverb. 

A merry heart doeth good like a medicine. — Solomon. 

Health is not quoted in the markets, because it is without 
price. — Sel. 

The best physicians are Dr. Diet, Dr. Quiet, and Dr. Merry- 
man. — Sel. 

The less the attention is called to the stomach the better. If 
you are in constant fear that your food will hurt you, it most 
assuredly will. Forget your troubles; think of something cheerful. 
— Christian Temperance. 

t2^* t&* t2r* 



FOOD for the sick should generally be of a very simple 
character. It should be such as will furnish the 
most nourishment with the least tax upon the digestive 
organs. It should be prepared with care and scrupulous 
cleanliness, well cooked, and served in the most inviting 
manner. Cover the tray with clean white linen, and use 
the daintiest dishes the house affords. 

Other dishes suitable for the sick, besides those here 
given, will be found among the Toasts, Breads, Fruits, 
Wholesome Drinks, etc. 
[no] 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. Ill 

ARROWROOT GRUEL. 

Rub one teaspoonful of arrowroot smooth in a tablespoonful of 
cold water; pour over it two cups of boiling water, stirring con- 
tinually; set the saucepan in hot water till the arrowroot is thor- 
oughly cooked; turn into a pitcher, add a little sugar to sweeten, 
and flavor with a little lemon peel. 

GRAHAM GRUEL. 

Into three cups of actively boiling water, stir one small cup of 
sifted graham flour mixed to a paste with a cup of cold water. Add 
a little salt, and cook until done, — for at least an hour if a double 
boiler is used. Then add a small quantity of cream or rich milk, 
and serve. An excellent breakfast dish for well people also, espe- 
cially for children, as are also the two following recipes. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 

Into a pint of boiling water stir a tablespoonful of oatmeal; boil 
for about an hour, strain through a sieve or coarse cloth, add a 
pinch of salt, a little milk, and sugar to sweeten if desired. 

RICE GRUEL. 

Wet one teaspoonful of rice flour in a little cold milk, and stir 
into one pint of boiling water; salt slightly, and boil until trans- 
parent. Flavor with lemon peel. 

MILK GRUEL. 

Heat one cup of milk to boiling, and stir in one tablespoonful 
of fine oatmeal; add a cup of boiling water, and cook until the 
meal is thoroughly done. Season with a little salt. 

ONION GRUEL. 

Boil a few sliced onions until tender in a pint of fresh milk, 
adding a little oatmeal; season with salt. Good for colds. 

LEMONADE, HOT AND COLD. 

Make the same as lemonade No. i, on page 103, or hot lemon- 
ade, on page 104. 

APPLE WATER. 

Take two or three ripe, tart, juicy apples, wipe, but do not pare, 
and slice into a quart of hot water; let stand until cool, pour off 
the water, and sweeten to taste. 



112 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

RICE WATER, 

Put into a saucepan one-half cup of well-washed rice; add three 
cups of cold water, and boil for thirty minutes. Strain, season 
with salt, and serve. 

BARLEY WATER, 

Put two tablespoonfuls of pearl barley into a cupful of boiling 
water, and let simmer a few minutes; drain, and add two quarts 
of boiling water with a few figs and seeded raisins chopped fine. 
Cook slowly until reduced one-half; strain; add sugar to taste, and 
a little of the juice and rind of a lemon, if desired. 

BAKED APPLE. 

Take a good tart apple, pare, cut in halves, remove the core, 
place in a small pan with a spoonful or two of water and a sprinkle 
of sugar, and bake until tender. Serve in a small dish with a little 
cream, or cover the apple with the white of an egg beaten stiff 
with a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, and brown lightly in a very 
slow oven. Sweet apples are also nice baked, but are best baked 
whole, and without being pared. 

CUP CUSTARD. 

To one well-beaten egg add a tablespoonful of sugar, turn into 
a cup, and fill up the cup with milk, stirring all together. Set the 
cup in a basin full of hot water, and bake in the oven until just set. 
Serve from the cup in which it was baked. The custard may be 
flavored with lemon or vanilla, if desired. 

BEAN BROTH. 

Look over and wash one cupful of beans, and put to cook 
in plenty of water, replenishing with hot water occasionally, 
if necessary. Cook slowly until tender, when there should be but 
little more than a cupful of broth remaining, which drain off, 
season with a spoonful of cream, a little salt, and serve hot. 

WHITE OF EGG AND MILK. 

Beat the white of an egg to a stiff froth, and stir briskly into a 
glass of cold milk. Good for persons with weak digestion. 

STEAMED EGG. 

Break an egg into an egg cup or patty-pan, sprinkle lightly 
with salt, and steam over boiling water until the white is set. 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 113 

BOILED EGG. 

Heat two tablespoonfuls cf water in a basin, break into it a 
fresh egg, and stir well until set, but not stiff. Season with salt, 
and serve on toast. 

EGG-NOG. 

Beat one egg and a teaspoonful of powdered sugar to a foam; 
add the juice of half a lemon, pour into a glass, and fill up with 
cold water. 

EGG-NOG HOT. 

Beat well together the yolk of one egg and a tablespoonful of 
sugar; add one-half cup of hot milk or water, and the white of the 
egg beaten to a stiff froth; stir lightly, and serve. 

TAPIOCA MILK. 

Into two cups of sweet milk stir one dessertspoonful of tapioca, 
and simmer for about an hour, stirring occasionally. Add sugar 
if desired. 

ARROWROOT CUSTARD. 

Take two cups of boiling milk, three tablespoonfuls of arrow- 
root moistened with a little cold milk, one tablespoonful of white 
sugar, and one egg; mix the arrowroot paste with the boiling 
milk, stir for three minutes, or until clear; then take from the fire, 
and add the egg and sugar beaten together; return to the fire, boil 
two minutes longer, and flavor with vanilla. 

APPLES AND RICE. 

Stew two or three ripe apples to a pulp; add sugar to sweeten. 
Boil a half cup of rice in milk until quite soft; place the rice around 
a plate with the apples in the center, and serve. 

TAPIOCA CUP PUDDING. 

Soak one tablespoonful of tapioca in a small cup of milk for 
two hours; then stir in the beaten yolk of a fresh egg, a teaspoon- 
ful of sugar, and a very little salt; turn into a cup, and bake in the 
oven for twelve or fifteen minutes. 

Will fortune never come with both hands full, 
And write her fair words still in foulest letters ? 
She either gives a stomach, and no iood, — 
Such are the poor, in health, or else a feast, 
And takes away the stomach,— such are the rich, 
That have abundance, and enjoy it not. 

— Shakespeare. 




OATMEAL WATER AND MILK, 

For an infant under three months, put one tablespoonful of fine 
oatmeal into a pint of boiling water, boil for an hour, replenishing 
with boiling water to keep the quantity good; strain, and add one 
cup of sterilized milk. Feed in bottle. For infants from three to 
six months, use equal portions of milk and oatmeal water, and 
after six months, two-thirds milk. 

SUBSTITUTE FOR MOTHERS MILK No. J. 

Take one ounce cow's milk, two ounces cream, three drams 
milk sugar, one grain bicarbonate of soda, and one ounce of water. 
Increase the quantity of milk and cream as the child gets older. 

SUBSTITUTE FOR MOTHER'S MILK No. 2. 

Take one tablespoonful of cream, four tablespoonfuls of milk, 
two tablespoonfuls of lime water, and four tablespoonfuls of sweet- 
ened water. Sugar of milk, two ounces to a pint of water, is pref- 
erable to ordinary littgar for preparing the sweetened water. This 
will generally agree with the most delicate stomach. 

WHITE OF EGG AND WATER. 

Stir well the white of an egg into a cupful of as warm water as 
can be used without coagulating the egg. Good for infants suffer- 
ing with extremely weak digestion, and unable to take milk. 

PROPER CLOTHING FOR CHILDREN. 

In providing clothing for children two things should be spe- 
cially considered — comfort and modesty. A child's limbs should be 
thoroughly protected from the cold by good warm underclothes 
and full-length stockings; otherwise the blood passing through the 
unprotected parts becomes chilled, and colds and other complaints 
result. A child is not modestly clothed if left to go about without 
suitable underclothing or none at all. Better to use the extra time 
and means expended on needless trimmings in dressing the child 
modestly and comfortably. 

[114] 




bCELLANEOUs 



TO STERILIZE MILK. 

As soon as received, heat rapidly in a double boiler to nearly 
the boiling point; keep at this temperature for half an hour; then 
remove from the fire, and cool as quickly as possible, by pouring it 
into clean pans, previously scalded, and placing these in cold 
water. It is safest to use milk and cream which have been steril- 
ized, as otherwise they are frequently a means of communicating 
diseases, such as tuberculosis, diptheria, and typhoid fever. The 
heat destroys the germs. 

COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Set a pan of thick sour milk in hot water, or in a warm oven 
where it will heat gradually; scald until the whey separates from 
the curd, but do not allow to boil, as it will make the curd tough. 
Line a colander with a coarse cloth, dip the scalded curd into it, 
then tie the corners of the cloth together, and hang up to drain. 
When quite dry turn into a dish, and rub fine with a spoon; add a 
little salt, a few spoonfuls of cream or rich milk, and beat together 
until light and smooth. If desired, it may be formed into balls 
with the hands. Put in a cool place. Very nice for lunch or tea, 
and is best when freshly made. 

HOMINY OR HULLED CORN. 

To hull four quarts of corn, use one heaping tablespoonful of 
soda, and water enough to cover the corn. Boil for four hours, or 
until the hull is well loosened and can be readily removed. Then 
wash in cold water thoroughly, stirring, rubbing, and rinsing until 
the hulls have all been turned off. Soak in clear water overnight 
to remove all traces of soda, and cook in a kettle or large saucepan 
all day in clear water, stirring occasionally to prevent burning on 
the bottom, and replenishing with hot water as needed. Season 
with salt, put into a jar, and keep in a cool place. Warm in small 
quantities as needed, with a little cream, or milk and butter, and 
serve hot. A little sugar may be added if desired. This will be 
found an excellent addition to the winter's bill of fare. 

[US] 



Il6 A FRIEND IN THE) KITCHEN. 

DRIED SWEET CORN. 

Remove the husks and silks, boil, and cut from the cob as 
directed for stewed sweet corn on page 64. Spread thinly on a 
cloth or on shallow tins, and place in the sun to dry. Turn over 
occasionally, take in in the evening, and put out to dry every day 
until thoroughly hard and dry. To keep off flies and insects, cover 
with mosquito webbing. It can also be dried in a warm, open 
oven, if careful not to allow the oven to get too hot. When dry, 
put away in bags. Any quantity desired may be prepared in this 
way. It will keep indefinitely. Cook the same as stewed sweet 
corn, only longer, and adding more water; or with beans soaked 
overnight. Sweet corn is excellent prepared in this way, 

POP CORN. 

This is a small variety of translucent corn, which, when 
heated, turns inside out with a sharp explosion, into a snow-white, 
brittle, and very light substance many times its original size. To 
pop, shell, and place a handful in a wire popper or frying-pan, 
covering tightly with a lid if the latter is used; add a little salt 
and butter, and shake constantly over a hot fire, being care- 
ful not to burn. When the popping ceases, it is done and ready 
to eat. If ripe and very dry, every kernel will pop. If desired, it 
may be formed into balls by mixing it with a little thick sugar 
sirup, or molasses boiled down a little, and pressing it into balls 
with the hands slightly oiled. 

DRIED APPLES. 

Take good, ripe apples, pare, quarter, core, and cut into thin 
slices; spread on shallow tins, and place in the oven until well 
heated through, then in the sun or in a moderate, open oven until 
thoroughly dried. Turn the fruit over occasionally each day 
while drying. Wire screens or webbings are serviceable in keeping 
off the flies. Other fruits may be dried in a similar manner. This 
is a simple and economical way of preserving fruit. 

TO KEEP APPLES, ORANGES, AND LEMONS. 

Wrap each separately in tissue paper, and lay so as not to touch 
each other, in a cool, dry place. 

TO KEEP EGGS. 

To twelve quarts of water add two pints of fresh slaked lime 
and one pint of common salt; mix well, immerse newly-laid eggs, 
and set in a cool place. Or, dip the eggs into a solution of gum 
arabic — equal parts gum and water — let dry, then dip again. 



A FRIKND IN THK KITCHEN. 



II 7 



When dry, wrap separately in paper, and pack in sawdust, bran , 
or salt. 

TO PRESERVE LEMON JUICE, 

When lemons are cheap, purchase several dozen at once. With 
the hand press each lemon on the table, rolling it back and forth 
briskly a few times; cut into halves, and extract the juice with a 
lemon drill into a bowl or tumbler, — never into a tin; strain the 
juice through a wire strainer, colander, or coarse cloth to remove 
the seeds and pulp; add a pint of water and a pound of white 
sugar to the juice of each dozen lemons, and boil in an enameled 
saucepan for about ten minutes; then bottle and set in a cool 
place, and it is ready for use. A tablespoonful or two of the sirup 
in a glass of water makes a cooling, healthful drink. 

COOKED PINEAPPLE, 

Pare with a sharp knife, cut into thin slices, divide the slices 
into quarters, put into a saucepan with one-half cup of water, and 
a very little sugar for each pineapple; cover with a china plate or 
enameled lid, and cook slowly for about two hours. 

PINEAPPLE TRIFLE, 

Take one can of preserved pineapple, or one pineapple cooked 
as above, drain off all the juice, divide the slices, put into a pud- 
ding dish, and cover with slices of cake, or arrange in alternate 
layers of cake and pineapple, having the top layer of cake. Heat 
one and one-half cups of milk to boiling, stir in one tablespoonful 
of flour rubbed smooth in a little cold milk, let cool, add the 
beaten yolk of one egg, and pour over the above. Cover with a 
meringue made of the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs and two 
tablespooufuls of sugar. Nice for dessert. 

TO FROST FRUITS, 

Secure nice bunches of cherries, currants, grapes, or berries 
with the stems on; dip them into the beaten white of an Qgg, then 
into powdered sugar, and place on a plate or clean white paper so 
as not to touch each other, to dry. Peaches, plums, and oranges, 
first pared and divided into sections, may be treated likewise. 
Fruits prepared thus are sometimes nice for ornament. 

ROLLED CRACKERS, 

Heat a few crackers in the oven to make them crisp, being care- 
ful not to scorch; remove from the oven, allow to cool, and roll 
fine with a rolling-pin. Nice for soups. 



Il8 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

UNLEAVENED BREAD FOR SACRAMENTAL PURPOSES. 

Take three cups of white flour, half a cup of thick sweet cream, 
a pinch of salt, and a little cold water. Sift the flour into a dish, 
add the salt and cream, and rub together thoroughly; then moisten 
with cold water till of the consistency of thick pie crust. Knead 
and roll well with the hand for fifteen minutes; then roll out to 
about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and cut into cakes four 
inches square. Mark out each cake into half-inch squares with a 
knife, so that when baked it may be easily broken, and prick each 
square with a fork to prevent blistering. Lay on floured baking 
tins, and bake in a quick oven, being careful not to scorch or burn. 

UNFERMENTED WINE FOR SACRAMENTAL PURPOSES. 

Secure good grapes, the small, dark wine grape is preferable, 
and proceed as' with grape juice on page 52. 

TO CUT LEMONS FOR GARNISHING. 

Divide slices of lemons into four parts, and use on salads and 
other dishes, placing the points toward the center. 

LEMON HONEY. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter into a saucepan to warm; then 
add one cup of sugar, the juice and grated rind of two lemons, and 
two eggs well beaten; cook until thickened, stirring constantly 
that no lumps be formed, and, if not cooked in a double boiler, 
being careful not to burn. When done, turn into cups and cover 
the same as jelly. Nice used as a filling for layer cake. 

HOW TO CUT BREAD. 

Bread should be cut into 

smooth, even slices, not too 

thick, the full length or width 

of the loaf. If large, the slices 

Bread Knife. may be divided. The Clauss, or 

scalloped-edged bread knife does 

the work nicely. If bread or cake is to be cut while warm, the 

knife should first be heated. 

HOP YEAST. 

To make yeast without yeast to start, boil a cupful of loose hops 
in two quarts of water for thirty minutes, strain through a cloth, 
and let cool till lukewarm; then add a tablespoonful of salt, and 
one-half cup of sugar. Mix two cupfuls of flour to a thin, smooth 



A FRIEND IN THE) KITCHEN. II9 

paste with some of the hop water, and stir all well together. Set 
the batter in a warm place for three days, and stir occasionally. 
Then boil one and one-half pounds of potatoes, mash smooth, and 
add to the mixture; let stand another day, stirring frequently. 
Then strain all through a colander, and it is ready for use. Use 
one cupful for five loaves of bread. 

POTATO YEAST. 

Put to boil in a saucepan six medium-sized potatoes in two 
quarts of cold water. Tie a cupful of hops in a cloth, and boil 
with the potatoes. When done, remove the potatoes from the 
saucepan, leaving the water still boiling. Mash well, and add four 
tablespoonfuls of flour, and two of sugar. Stir all well together. 
Then pour over this mixture the boiling hop water, stirring well 
that no lumps be formed. When cooled to lukewarm, stir in a 
half cup of lively yeast, and after fermentation has ceased, keep in 
a cool place ready for use. 



a frip;nd in the kitchen. 



A WEEK'S MENU. 



FIRST DAY. 


FOURTH DAY. 


Breakfast. 


Breakfast. 


Fresh Fruit 

Oatmeal Mush Breakfast Rolls 

Zwieback Stewed Fruit 

Cereal Coffee 


Fresh Apples Granola Fruit Mush 

Toast with Milk Sauce 

Rice Waffles Stewed Pears 

Cereal Coffee 


Dinner. 


Dinner. 


Split Pea Soup 

Mashed Potatoes with Brown Gravy 

Scalloped Tomatoes Brown Bread 

French Rolls Baked Apples 

Rice Custard 


Lentil Soup 

Baked Potatoes with Milk Gravy 

Tomato Salad 

Boiled Beans with Rice 

Corn-meal Gems Sago Plum Pudding 


SECOND DAY. 


FIFTH DAY. 


Breakfast. 


Breakfast. 


Fresh Fruit 

Grits 

Graham Gems Oatmeal Biscuit 

Egg Toast Cereal Coffee 


Fresh Fruit 

Graham Mush 

Oatmeal Gems Baked Sweet Apples 

Berry Toast Cambric Tea 


Dinner. 


Dinner. 


Savory Soup 


Vegetable Pea Soup 


Boiled Potatoes Baked Beans 

Stewed Cauliflower 

Brown and White Bread Rusks 

Bananas Savory Pie 


Boiled Potatoes Stewed Asparagus 

Boiled Sweet Corn 

Brown and White Bread Stewed 

Prunes Cream Pie 


THIRD DAY. 


SIXTH DAY. 


Breakfast. 


Breakfast. 


Rice with Figs 

Baked Potatoes Plain Omelet 

Cream Toast Sticks 

Hot Milk 


Corn-meal Mush 

Rice Gems Stewed Berries 

Brown and White Bread Milk Toast 

Pea Coffee or Hot Milk 


•Dinner. 


Dinner. 


Potato and Bean Soup 

Mashed Potatoes Stewed Turnips 

Baked Turkscap 

Brown and White Bread Fruit Biscuit 

Apple Cobbler 


Rice Soup 

Mashed Potatoes with Milk Gravy 

Green Peas Succotash 

Blown and White Bread Apple Float 

Raised Biscuits 


SABB 


ATH. 


Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Oranges and Bananas 

Graham Mush with Dates 

Stewed Prunes 

Breakfast Rolls 

Brown and White Bread 

Cereal Coffee 


Split Pea and Vermicelli Soup 

Baked Beans 

Warmed up Potatoes Currant Buns 

Brown and White Bread 

Baked Apples or Sago Plum Pudding 

Fresh Fruit and Nuts 



Note. — The above is simply suggestive, and may be simplified, enlarged, or 
varied as desired. It is not supposed that every person shall necessarily eat 
everything indicated for each meal. Some will prefer the grain and vegetable 
dishes; others the grain and fruit. If a third meal is eaten, it should be light and 

simple. 




SABBATH DINNERS. 

The Sabbath is the day of rest. In order that it may be devoted 
by all to religious exercises, holy meditation, and spiritual delight, 
it should be as free as possible from the ordinary duties and cares 
of life. To make it thus, preparation on the day before is neces- 
sary. The Lord calls the day before the Sabbath "the prepara- 
tion " day. Luke 23 154. Of the work to be done on this day He 
says: " To-morrow is the rest of the holy Sabbath unto the Lord; 
bake that which ye will bake to-day, and seethe [boil] that ye will 
seethe; and that which remaineth over lay up for you to be kept 
until the morning." Ex. 16 : 23. 

The Sabbath should not be made a day of feasting. The labor 
of the week being laid aside, a moderate amount of plain, whole- 
some food is all that is necessary. To gormandize on this day, as 
is the custom with many, causes the mind to become dull and 
stupid, and unfits it for spiritual devotion. 

With proper planning, very little, if any, cooking need ever be 
done on the Sabbath, aside from simply warming over some of the 
foods prepared the previous day. 

Brown bread, fruit bread, sticks, or French rolls; warmed up 
potatoes, or potatoes with cream; baked or boiled beans; split pea 
or lentil soup, with rolled crackers or croutons; sago, tapioca, or 
some other simple pudding or pie; canned or stewed fruit; and 
fresh fruits and nuts, make an excellent Sabbath dinner. All these 
may be prepared on the previous day. The potatoes may be boiled 
ready to warm up, the beans baked or boiled, the peas or lentils 
cooked and rubbed through the colander ready to add the season- 
ing and necessary water for soup, the croutons or rolled crackers 
prepared, the fruit stewed, the pudding or pie baked and the nuts 
cracked. Then the dinner may be made ready quickly, and 
with but little effort. 

[121] 



122 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

FOOD COMBINATIONS. 

The following table, prepared by J. H. Kellogg, M. D., repre- 
sents the best, the fair, and the worst food combinations: — 



Grains and Fruits. 

Grains and Milk 



GOOD COMBINATIONS. 

Grains and Vegetables. 

Grains and Meat or Eggs. 

FAIR COMBINATIONS. 

Meat and Vegetables. Grains, Sweet Fruits, and Milk. 

BAD COMBINATIONS. 

Milk and Meat. Milk and Vegetables. 

Fruits and Vegetables. 

t&* l£r* f£r* 

TIME REQUIRED TO DIGEST VARIOUS FOODS. 



Rice - 


I oo 


Mutton, broiled 


3 00 


Granola - 


I oo 


Bean soup - 


3 00 


Apples, sweet, mellow, raw 


' i 30 


Mutton , roasted 


3 15 


Eggs, whipped 


1 30 


Bread, corn -meal 


3 15 


Trout, boiled 


1 30 


Mutton soup - 


3 3° 


Venison, broiled 


1 35 


Bread, white - 


3 3o 


vSago - 


1 45 


Potatoes, boiled 


3 3o 


Tapioca ... 


2 00 


Turnips, boiled - 


3 3o 


Barley - 


2 00 


Eggs, hard boiled - 


3 30 


Eggs, raw - 


2 00 


Eggs, fried - 


3 3o 


Apples, sour, mellow, raw 


2 00 


Oysters, stewed 


3 3o 


Milk, boiled ... 


2 00 


Butter, melted - 


3 3o 


Milk, raw - - - - 


2 15 


Cheese - 


3 3o 


Turkey, boiled 


2 25 


Beets, boiled - 


3 45 


Parsnips, boiled 


2 30 


Corn and Beans, green 


- 3 45 


Potatoes , baked - 


2 30 


Veal, broiled - 


4 00 


Beans, string, boiled - 


2 30 


Fowl, broiled - 


4 00 


Cabbage, raw 


2 30 


Beef, lean, fried 


4 00 


Turkey, roasted 


2 30 


Salmon, salted, boiled 


■ 4 00 


Goose, roasted 


2 30 


Beef, salted, boiled 


4 15 


Lamb, boiled - 


2 30 


Soup, marrow-bone - 


4 15 


Oysters, raw 


2 55 


Pork, salted, fried 


4 15 


Eggs, soft boiled 


3 00 


Veal, fried - 


4 30 


Beef, lean, raw, roasted - 


3 00 


Duck, roasted - 


4 30 


Beefsteak, broiled 


3 00 


Cabbage, boiled - 


4 30 


Chicken soup, boiled - 


3 00 


Pork, roasted - 


5 15 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 



123 



NUTRITIVE VALUE OF FOODS. 

The nutritive food elements are classified into three groups: 
The nitrogenous, or muscle and tissue building; the carbonaceous \ 
or heat and energy producing; and the mineral, or the bone and 
nerve building. 

Albumen, gluten, and casein belong to the nitrogenous; starch, 
sugar, and fats to the carbonaceous; and salts, cellulose portions, 
and inorganic substances to the mineral. 

The nitrogenous elements are of prime importance, as they 
nourish the brain, nerves, muscles, ana the more highly vitalized 
tissues of the body. The carbonaceous, however, are required in 
much larger quantities, the correct proportion being about eight or 
ten of carbonaceous to one of nitrogenous. 



FOODS. 



GRAINS. 
Wheat .. 
Barley.... 

Oats 

Rye 

Corn 

Rice 



FRUITS. 

Banana 

Date 

Grape 

Apple 

Pear 

Peach 

Plum , 

Cherry 

Blackberry .. 
Gooseberry. 
Raspberry.... 

Currant 

Apricot 



VEGETABLES. 

Arrowroot 

Potato 

Sweet Potato .... 

Carrot 

Beet 

Parsnip 

Cabbage 

Turnip 



72.5 
76.7 
69.4 
75-2 
73-^ 
80.2 



20.2 
58.0 
14.3 
10.3 
10.2 
7-8 
9-3 
[5-3 
5-8 
8.9 
6.4 
5-0 
12.2 



82.0 
22.2 

27.5 
14.7 

11 -3 
15-9 
4.1 
7.2 



r. 
> 



85.O 
S5.0 
85.O 

85. 
86." 
87.0 



25-S 
67.0 
15-4 

10.9 
10.7 
8.6 
10. 1 
16.S 

9.6 

7-4 
5-9 

13-5 



82.0 
25.0 

31-6 
17.0 
16.5 
1S.0 
5-6 
9.0 



FOODS. 



LEGUMES. 
Peas 



Lentils 



NUTS. 
Peanut .... 

Almond... 
Coconut .. 
Walnut.... 
Hazelnut. 



SWEETS. 

Sugar 

Molasses. 



MILK. 

New Milk 

Cream 

Skimmed Milk. 



MEATS. 
Lean Mutton. 

Lean Beef 

Veal 

Pork 

Poultry 

White Fish- 
Salmon 

Egg 



23.8 
30.8 

25.2 



28.3 

23-5 



1S.3 
iy-3 
16.5 
9 .8 

21.0 
1S.1 
16. 1 
14.0 



60.S 

50.2 

" 6 



48.0 
60.8 

43-9 
60.4 
60.8 



95-0 
7.0 



4-9 
3-6 
15-8 
48.9 
3-8 
2.9 
5-5 
10.5 






86.7 

84.5 



79.6 

87.3 
50.5 

88.2 
897 



95-0 
77.0 



14.0 
34 -o 
12.0 



28 o 
28.0 
37-0 
61.0 
26.0 
22.0 
23.0 
26.0 



Note.— From the above it will be seen that grains, legumes, nuts, and sweets, 
as well as some fruits and vegetables, contain more nourishment than do meats. 



124 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

HOW TO BECOME A VEGETARIAN. 

The fact that many people abstain from flesh food 
altogether, and maintain their full vigor, is good proof 
that the eating of flesh-meat is not essential to either life 
or health. But those accustomed all their life to the use 
of meat, may need to use a little caution in making a 
change to a vegetarian diet. A good way to begin might 
be to limit oneself at first to the use of meat once or twice 
a week, discarding it as better foods are substituted. The 
British Vegetarian Society, in " How to Begin," gives the 
following suggestions for those desiring to make this 
change: — 

i. Steadily persevere. 

2. Use Variety.— Nature affords the most bountiful abundance. 
Have something new on your table frequently, especially fruits. 

3. Choose foods which compel mastication . 

4. Drink Little. — If fruits be used plentifully — condiments, 
hot foods, and stimulants avoided, and frequent bathing practised — 
little drink will be required. 

5. Prefer natural to manufactured foods. 

6. Avoid Excess. — Most people eat too much; a smaller quan- 
tity of food, well masticated, will nourish and sustain the system best. 

7. Eat Seldom. — Not more than thrice daily. " Little and 
often" is an unwise maxim for any healthy person. And if you 
wish sound sleep, and an appetite for breakfast, avoid suppers. 

8. Let your food be attractively prepared. 

9. See That Your Life be Right in Other Respects.— -Eat food 
which is pure of its kind, agreeably prepared, at right times, and 
in right quantities; breathe pure air by night and by day; take 
physical exercise (if possible in the open air) daily; and practise 
strict cleanliness. 

10. Get Blind and Body in Harmony. — Remember that man's 
physical condition, and the state of his spiritual and mental facul- 
ties are closely and mutually inter-dependent. It is, therefore, a 
primary essential to keep these also in health; and to see that they 
be usefully, tranquilly, and constantly occupied and cultivated. 

VEGETARIANISM IN LONDON. 

Vegetarianism has worked an improvement, and its many restau- 
rants in London show how the taste for this diet has been 
on the increase of late. One very great and undeniable advan- 
tage in the teaching of this school is the showing us how many 
foods we possess, and how few, comparatively speaking, we have 
used. Also, it proves to us how much cheaper we could live by 
utilizing all the foods at our command except meat, and abstaining 
from it. — Mrs. Beet on. 



A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 1 25 

RULES FOR DYSPEPTICS- 
Dyspbpsia, or indigestion, is coming to be so general 
as to demand serious attention. The following rules will 
be found valuable to all persons suffering with this com- 
plaint: — 

1. Eat slowly, masticating the food very thoroughly, even more 
so, if possible, than is required in health. The more time the food 
spends in the mouth, the less it will spend in the stomach. 

2. Avoid drinking at meals; at most, take a few sips of warm 
drink at the close of the meal, if the food is very dry in character. 

3. In general, dyspeptic stomachs manage dry food better than 
that containing much fluid. 

4. Eat neither very hot nor very cold food. The best tempera- 
ture is about that of the body. Avoid exposure to cold after eating. 

5. Be careful to avoid excess in eating. Eat no more than the 
wants of the system require. Sometimes less than is really needed 
must be taken when the digestion is very weak. Strength depends 
not on what is eaten, but on what is digested. 

6. Never take violent exercise of any sort, either mental or 
physical, just before or just after a meal. It is not good to sleep 
immediately after eating, or within four hours of a meal. 

7. Never eat more than three times a day, and make the last 
meal very light. For many dyspeptics two meals are better than 
more. 

8. Never eat a morsel of any sort between meals. 

9. Never eat when very tired, whether exhausted from mental 
or physical labor. 

10. Never eat when the mind is worried, or the temper is ruffled 
if possible to avoid doing so. 

11. Eat only food that is easy of digestion, avoiding complicated 
and indigestible dishes, and taking from but one to three kinds at 
a meal. 

12. Most persons will be benefited by the use of oatmeal, graham 
flour, cracked wheat, and other whole-grain preparations, though 
many will find it necessary to avoid vegetables, especially when 
fruits are taken. — Monitor of Health. 



126 A FRIEND IN THE KITCHEN. 

THE PULSE IN HEALTH. 

PER MIN. PER MIN: 

At birth - 150-130 Three years - - 100-90 

One month - 140-120 Seven years - 80 

Six months - 130 Fourteen years - - 85-80 

One year - - - 120-108 Adult age - 75-7Q 

Two years - - 1 10-100 Old age - - - 65-60 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES FOR THE 
KITCHEN. 

1 cupful - - - about y z pint 

2 cupfuls - - " 1 pint 

4 cupfuls "1 quart 

2 cupfuls of sugar ------ " 1 pound 

2 cupfuls of butter " 1 pound 

2 cupfuls of flour or oatmeal - - - - " 1 pound 

4 cupfuls of sifted flour ------- 1 pound 

1 pint of liquid " I pound 

10 eggs - - «« 1 pound 

1 egg ..-- "2 ounces 

1 heaping tablespoonful of sugar - - - " 1 ounce 

1 tablespoonful of butter " I ounce 

2 rounding tablespoonfuls of flour - - - " 1 ounce 
7 heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar - " I cupful 

5 heaping tablespoonfuls of flour - - - '* I cupful 

t&& t&* 5^* 

HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

Every housewife should take pride in keeping her home neat 
and tidy. " Order is heaven's first law." 

Sinks and drains should be frequently cleaned and disinfected. 

Dish-cloths should always be washed out after using; otherwise 
they are liable to become foul and full of germs. 

After washing the dishes, pour over them scalding water, and 
wipe quickly with a clean dry cloth. This insures cleanliness and 
gives a nice polish. 

Scour steel knives after each meal . 

Sweep out the corners, and under the tables and chairs as well 
as the middle of the room. " Dirt may be hated, but should never 
be hidden." 

Pare vegetables and fruits thin; study how to use left-over 
foods; save the bread crumbs for puddings and scalloped vegetables. 
"Gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost." 



Index* 



PAGE. 

Apples and rice 113 

Apple batter pudding 81 

Apple butter 46 

Apple cobbler 44 

Apple float 85 

Apple jelly 46 

Apple pie 92 

Apple sago pudding 79 

Apple scallop 44 

Apple trifle 81 

Apple water in 

Apples with tapioca 81 

Apples with raisins 82 

Arrowroot blanc-mange 83 

Arrowroot custard 113 

Arrowroot gruel in 

Arrowroot sauce 88 

Asparagus soup — 18 

Asparagus toast 26 

A week's menu 120 

Baked apple 112 

Baked apples No. 1 43 

Baked apples No. 2 ...: 43 

Baked apple dumplings 80 

Baked beets 65 

Baked cabbage 62 

Baked eggs 75 

Baked beans 60 

Baked peaches No. 1 45 

Baked peaches No. 2 45 

Baked parsnips 63 

Baked pears 44 

Baked potatoes 57 

Baked quinces 45 

Baked rice 61 

Baked sweet apples 44 

Baked sweet potatoes 58 

Baked tomatoes 59 

Baked squash 64 

Baked vegetable goose 72 

Baked vegetable marrow 64 

Banana custard 85 

Bannna pudding 79 

Banana toast 27 

Bananas with whipped cream 46 

Barley mush 22 

Barley soup 17 

Barley water 112 

Bean broth 112 

Bean soup 14 



Page. 

Beet greens 65 

Berry toast 26 

Blackberry pie 93 

Boiled apples 44 

Boiled apple dumplings 81 

Boiled beets 65 

Boiled cabbage 62 

Boiled carrots 63 

Boiled custard 84 

Boiled custard sauce 88 

Boiled egg 113 

Boiled eggs 74 

Boiled frosting 101 

Boiled beans 60 

Boiled beans with rice 60 

Boiled macaroni 72 

Boiled onions 63 

Boiled parsnips 63 

Boiled potatoes (without skins) .. 56 

Boiled potatoes (with skins) 57 

Boiled rice 22 

Boiled sweet corn 64 

Boiled sweet potatoes 58 

Boiled wheat 22 

Bread omelet 76 

Bread pudding No. 1 78 

Bread pudding No. 2 78 

Bread steak 71 

Breakfast rolls 35 

Browned flour for soups 18 

Brown sauce No. 1 88 

Brown sauce No. 2 88 

Browned sweet potatoes 58 

Buckwheat pancakes 39 

Butter toast 27 

Cabbage salad 62 

Cabbage and tomato salad 62 

Cambric tea 103 

Canned apples 51 

Canned berries 51 

Canned cherries 5° 

Canned peaches 50 

Canned pears 51 

Canned plums 50 

Canned quinces 51 

Canned tomatoes 51 

Caramel cereal 109 

Carrot pie 96 

Cauliflower with tomato»sauce 62 

Celery 65 



PAGE. 

Celery soup , 17 

Cereal coffee 102 

Cherry pie... 93 

Cherry pudding 83 

Chocolate sauce 89 

Coconut pudding 82 

Cold Peach pudding 79 

Cooked pineapple 117 

Cookies 101 

Cornstarch blanc-mange 81 

Cornstarch cake 100 

Cornstarch meringue 85 

Cornstarch pudding 78 

Corn coffee 103 

Corn-meal batter cakes 39 

Corn-meal mush 22 

Corn-meal gems 35 

Corn-meal pie crust 92 

Corn-meal squares 22 

Cottage cheese 115 

Cream mold 84 

Cream cake 100 

Cream pie 94 

Cream pie crust 92 

Cream toast 27 

Croutons for soup iS 

Crushed toast 27 

Crust coffee 103 

Cup custard 112 

Currant jam 47 

Custard pie 95 

Custard with fruit sauce 86 

Dessert gems 39 

Dressings for pudding or mush 23 

Dried apples... 116 

Dried apple pie 94 

Dried currant pie 93 

Dried peach pie 94 

Dried sweet corn 116 

Eggs and macaroni 75 

Egg and milk sauce 88 

Egg-nog 113 

Egg-nog hot 113 

Egg sandwiches 75 

Egg toast 27 

Floating Island 84 

Fig cake 100 

Fig pudding 80 

Food combinations 122 

Forcemeat fritters 72 

French rolls 36 

Fruit crackers 37 

Fruit bread 33 

Fruit buns 37 

Fruit juices 5 1 

Fruit juice drinks 104 

Fruit juice lemonade 104 

Fruit loaf No. 1 38 

Fruit loaf No. 2 38 

Fruit mold 4 6 

Fruit omelet 76 

Fruit rolls 3 6 



PAGE. 

Fruit sauce 89 

Fruit tapioca 82 

Fruit toast 27 

Frosting for cake 101 

Gem cakes 101 

Gems, general directions for 34 

Graham bread 32 

Graham fruit bread 32 

Graham crackers 37 

Graham gems No. 1 34 

Graham gems No. 2 34 

Graham gruel 111 

Graham mush 21 

Graham mush with dates 21 

Granola fruit mush 106 

Granola gems 106 

Granola mush 106 

Granose biscuit 107 

Granose fruit-cake 107 

Granose pudding 107 

Grapeade 104 

Grape juice 52 

Grape marmalade 46 

Green peas 61 

Green pea soup 14 

Grits 22 

Gooseberry pie 92 

Hop yeast 118 

Hominy, or hulled corn 115 

Hot lemonade 104 

Hot milk 103 

How to become a vegetarian 124 

How to can fruit 47 

How to cut bread 118 

Household hints 126 

Johnny cake 33 

Lemonade No. 1 103 

Lemonade No. 2 104 

Lemon honey 118 

Lemonade, hot and cold 111 

Lemon layer cake 99 

Lemon pie 93 

Lemon raisin pie 94 

Lemon sauce-. 89 

Lemon sponge cake 99 

Lentils 61 

Lentil fritters 39 

Lentil sauce 87 

Lentil soup 15 

Lentil and tomato soup 15 

Lettuce salad No. 1 66 

Lettuce salad No. 2 66 

Macaroni omelet 76 

Macaroni pudding 78 

Mashed beans 60 

Mashed potatoes 57 

Meringue for pies 96 

Milk gruel Hi 

Milk sauce 87 

Milk biscuits 38 

Milk toast 26 

Mint sauce S8 



PAGE. 

Minute pudding 83 

New potatoes 58 

Noodle soup 18 

Nut butter cream 107 

Nut butter gravy 107 

Nut butter pie crust 108 

Nut butter sandwiches 108 

Nut cake 101 

Nutritive value of foods 123 

Oatmeal crackers No. 1 36 

Oatmeal crackers No. 2 36 

Oatmeal gems 35 

Oatmeal gruel 111 

Oatmeal mush 21 

Oatmeal, water and milk 1 14 

Onion gruel. in 

Onion pie 96 

Orangeade 104 

Orange custard 85 

Orange sauce 89 

Other tasty dishes 73 

Peaches and rice 82 

Peach pie 92 

Peas puree 72 

Pineapple 46 

Pineapple custard 85 

Pineapple lemonade 104 

Pineapple trifle 117 

Pie with upper crust only 95 

Plain boiled rice 61 

Plain buns 37 

Plain omelet 76 

Plain pie crust — , 92 

Plum marmalade 46 

Poached eggs 74 

Popcorn 116 

Pop overs 35 

Potato and bean soup 17 

Potato cakes 58 

Potato rolls 71 

Potato soup T7 

Potatoes with cream 58 

Potato yeast 119 

M Prairie " fish 72 

Protose sandwiches 109 

Prune pie 93 

Prune pudding 7g 

Puffs 38 

Pulse in health 124 

Pumpkin pie 95 

Quince jelly 47 

Radishes 66 

Raised biscuits 34 

Raisin pie 94 

Raised fruit-cake 99 

Raspberry pie 93 

Rhubarb pie 93 

Rice and fruit pudding 83 

Rice apple pudding No. 1 80 

Rice apple pudding No. 2 80 

Rice custard 86 

Rice gems 35 

IO 



PAGE. 

Rice gruel IU 

Rice lemon pudding $ c 

Rice mold custard 35 

Rice pudding 73 

Rice soup !6 

Rice waffles 3s 

Rice water XI2 

Rice with figs g 2 

Rice with raisins 82 

Roast nuttose 10S 

Roasted peanuts 72 

Roasted sweet potatoes 5 s 

Rolled crackers n 7 

Rolled oats 2 i 

Rolled oats and sago mush 21 

Royai spongecake 99 

Rules for dyspeptics 125 

Rusks 37 

Sabbath dinners 121 

Sago fruit soup ^ 

Sago pea soup 1 ( ) 

Sago plum pudding 77 

Sago pudding 77 

Salsify or vegetable oyster soup. ... ig 

Salt rising bread 33 

Savory pie 96 

Savory soup x 6 

Scalloped eggs 75 

Scalloped tomatoes 59 

Scrambled eggs 75 

Sliced cucumbers 65 

Spinach 65 

Split peas 61 

Split pea soup 14 

Split pea and vermicelli soup 14 

Spongecake 99 

Sponge layer cake 99 

Steamed brown bread 33 

Steamed eggs 75. 

Steamed egg 112 

Steamed rice 6r 

Steamed sliced potatoes 57 

Stewed apples 43 

Stewed asparagus 63 

Stewed berries 45 

Stewed cabbage 62 

Stewed carrots 63 

Stewed cauliflower 61 

Stewed nuttose 108 

Stewed peaches 45 

Stewed pears a 44 

Stewed prunes 45 

Stewed quinces 51 

Stewed salsify or vegetable oyster 73 

stewed sweet corn 64 

Stewed tomatoes 59 

Stewed squash 64 

Stewed turnips 63 

Stewed turnips with milk sauce .. 63 

Sticks 36 

Strawberry shortcake 100 

String beans 60 



IV. 



PAGE. 

Substitute for mother's milk No. i 114 

Substitute for mother's milk No. 2 114 

Succotash 64 

Tapioca cream 86 

Tapioca cup pudding- 113 

Tapioca milk II3 

Tapioca pudding 77 

Tarts 95 

Time required to digest foods 122 

To cut lemons for garnishing 118 

Toast with milk sauce 26 

To frost fruits 117 

To keep apples, oranges, and 

lemons , 116 

To keep eggs 116 

Tomatoes and macaroni 59 

Tomato and macaroni soup 15 

Tomato and vermicelli soup 15 

Tomato salad No. 1 59 

Tomato salad No. 2 60 

Tomato soup 15 

Tomato toast 27 



PAGE. 

Tomato sauce No. 1 87 

Tomato sauce No. 2 87 

To preserve lemon juice 117 

To sterilize milk 115 

Unfermented wine for sacramental 

purposes 118 

Unleavened bread for sacramental 

purposes 118 

Vegetable and lentil stew 71 

Vegetable hash 71 

Vegetable pea soup 15 

Vegetable pie 95 

Vegetable soup 17 

Warmed-up potatoes 57 

Weights and measures for the 

kitchen 126 

Whipped cream sauce 89 

White bread 32 

White of egg and milk 112 

White of egg and water 114 

Yams 59 

Zwieback, or dry toast 26 



| Granose (&§s) Granose 


Branoia 


HEALTH FOODS 

. ARE . 

Friends in the Kitchen 

They are easily prepared 

They make good blood 

They build up the system by 
supplying the proper amount 
of nutrition necessary 

They give strength to the body, 
brightness to the eye, and 
elasticity to the step 

Ask your grocer, or send for 
descriptive circulars and price 
lists 

Assorted sample, 25 cents 

St. Helena Sanitarium 
Health Food Co. 

ST. HELENA, CAL. 

San Francisco Branch: 

1422 Market St.,S. F. 


nut 

Butter 
Hucose 


Granose 
Biscuit 


Caramel- 
Cereal 


nutlet 


Bromose 


Whole 
Wheat 
Sticks 


malted 
nuts 


Graham 
Sticks 


Protose 


Pure 
gluten 
Biscuit 


maltol 


Ambrosia 


UJbole 

Ulbeat 

Zwieback 


Almond 
Butter 


lftanno 


Whole 
Wheat 
Wafers 


fruit 

Coco 


| Unfermented Breads H id Digestion ( 

P Most of Our Crackers and Sticks are Unfermented 



Natural Food of Man 

<AND HOW TO "PREPARE IT 



m 



A thoroughly hygienic cook-book ^ It discards 
not only meat, but all animal productions, such 
as milk, butter, eggs, etc., as well. 

The author, Mrs. J. R. Leadsworth, believes 
that the food given our first parents — " I have 
given you every herb bearing seed . . . and 
every tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree 
yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat" 
(Gen. 1:29) — is the natural food of man. 

Scores of those who have tried the recipes testify 
unhesitatingly to their being practical, valuable, 
and palatable. 

PAPER COVERS, PRICE 25 CENTS 



&r4 



m 






Pacific p ress Publishing Co. 

Oakland, California 

39 cBund Street &{pw York City 

18 West Fifth Street, Kansas City, 8Mo. 



