t 

■Jte 


! 

M • • 


•LC LI RSE 


1 




'* 


4 

Bo OX- 


V 


.;.'': ;^'^^^, 






■ ,' » 


» 



ECLIPSE SOAP 














Is a strictly pure laundry soap. It is sweet and 
wholesome, lathers freelj^ cleanses quickly, and 
will do thoroughly all work for which good soap 
Is intended. 

We give many handsome and useful articles 
free for Eclipse soap wrappers. See premium list 
with every bar of soap. 



Save the wrappers. 



JOHN TAYLOR ^ CO., Toronto. 



ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 










a ^=^ 




From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 








iin 

iO 
I CO 

I in 
=00 
|o 

I"* 

= <N 
iO 



=cr> 



The 

Eclipse Cook Book 



CONTAINING 

VALUABLE RECIPES IN ALL THE DEPARTMENTS, 
INCLUDING SICKROOM COOKERY. 



By 
ANNE CIvARK© 




PUBLISHED FOR 



JOHN TAYLOR & COMPANY 
TORONTO 

SOLE MANUFACTURERS OF ECLIPSE SOAP. 



Entered according to Act of Parliament of Canada in 
the year one thousand eight hundred and ninety-nine by 
Gbo. J. Mcl/EOD at the Department of Agriculture. 



PREFACE. 

As a general rule, I do not believe in prefaces, but feeling 
bound to submit to the time-honored custom, I am free to con- 
fess that had I known the labor necessary to produce a first- 
class "Cookery Book," I should hardly have had the 
resolution to commence it. However, I have done my utmost 
to make it useful and acceptable to the ladies of the Dominion 
of Canada. The recipes have been most carefully compiled, 
and valuable assistance has been rendered me by friends in the 
British Isles, France, Germany and the United States, to all of 
whom I tender my most sincere thanks. I also desire to 
record my grateful appreciation of the immense success my 
"Cookery Book" has met with. The number of orders 
already received for it convinces me that I have supplied a real 
want, and that my book will help my sisters to lighten their 
toil and gladden the hearts of their families. 

ANNE CLARKE. 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis bool< is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924085805152 



INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS 



" The number of inhabitants who may be supported in any country 
upon its internal produce depends about as much upon the state of the Art 
of Cookery as upon that of Agriculture ; but if Cookery be of so much 
importance, it certainly deserves to be studied with the greatest of care. 
Cookery and Agriculture are arts oi civilized nations. Savages understand 
neither of them." — Count Rumforis Works, Vol. I. 

The importance of the Art of Cookery is very great ; in- 
deed, from the richest to the poorest the selection and prepara- 
tion of food often becomes the chief object in hfe. The rich 
man's table is luxuriously spread; no amount of money is 
spared in procuring the rarest delicacies of the season. Art 
and Nature alike contribute to his necessities. The less 
wealthy have, indeed, fewer resources, yet these may be greatly 
increased by the knowledge of what may be called trifling 
details and refinement in the art of cookery, which depend 
much more on the manner of doing a thing than on the cost 
attending it. To cook well, therefore, is immensely more 
important to the middle and working classes than to the rich, 
for they who live by the " sweat of their brow," whether mentally 
or physically, must have the requisite strength to support their 
labor. Even to the poor, whose very life depends upon the 
produce of the hard earned dollar, cookery is of the greatest 
importance. Every wife, mother, or sister should be a good 
plain cook. If she has servants she can direct them, and if 
not, so much the more must depend upon herself To such 
we venture to give a few general hints. An old saying (to be 
found in one of the earliest cookery books) : " First catch your 
hare, etc.," has more significance than is generally supposed. 
To catch your hare well, you must spend your income judi- 
ciously. This is the chief thing. In our artificial state of 

7 



8 Dominion Cook Book. 

society, every income, to keep up appearances, has at least 
half as much more to do than it can afford. In the selection 
of provisions, the best is generally the cheapest. Half a pound 
of good meat is more nutritious than three times th^ amount 
of inferior. As to vegetables buy them fresh. Above all, where 
an income is small and there are many to feed, be careful that 
all the nourishment is retained in the food that is purchased. 
This is to be effected by careful cooking. Cleanlinesg is an 
imperative condition. Let all cooking utensils be clean and in 
order. Uncleanliness produces disorder, and disorder con- 
fusion. Time and money are thus wasted, dinner spoiled, and 
all goes wrong. In the cooking of meat by any process what-" 
ever, remember, above all, to cook the juices in it, not out of 
it. 

BOILING. 

In boiling put the meat, if fresh, into cold water, or, if salt, 
into luke-warm. Simmer it very gently until done. It is a 
general rule to allow a quarter of an hour to every pound of 
meat; but in this, as in everything else, judgment must be 
used according to the bone and shape of the joint, and acoord- 
ing; to the taste of the eaters. All kinds of meat, fish, flesh and 
and fowl, should be boiled very slowly, and the scum taken off 
just as boiling commences. If meats are allowed to boiUtoo fast ■ 
they toughen, all their juices are extracted, and only fhe fleshy 
fibre, without sweetness, is left ; if they boil too long they are 
reduced to a jelly, and their nourishing properties are trans- 
ferred to the water in which they are boiled. Nothing is moB»^ 
difficult than to boil meat exactly as it should be ; close atten- 
tion and good judgment are indispensable. 

ROASTING. 

In roasting meat the gravy may be retained in it by pricking 
the joint all over with a fork and rubbing in pepper and salt. 
Mutton and beef may be underdone, veal and pork must be 



Introductory Observations. 



well cooked. Young meat generally requires more cooking 
than old ; thus lamb and veal must be more done than mutton 
and beef. In frosty weather meat will require a little more time 
for cooking. All joints for roasting will improve by hanging a 
day or so before cooking. 

BROILING. 

Broiling is the most nutritious method of cooking mutton 
and pork chops, or beef and rump steaks, kidneys (which 
should never be cut open before cooking), etc. Have the 
gridiron clean, and put over a clear fire ; put the meat on it ; 
"keep it turned often." This last is a common direction in 
books, but the reason why is never stated ; it is to keep the 
gravy in the meat. By letting the one side of a steak be well 
done before turning, you will see the red gravy settled on the 
top of the steak, and so the meat is hard and spoiled. This is 
cooking the gravy out of, instead of keeping it in, the meat to 
nourish the consumer. Never stick the fork in the meaty 
part ; yoli will lose gravy if you do. Be sure to turn often, and 
generally the chop or steak is done if it feels firm to the fork ; 
if not done it will be soft and flabby. It is economical to 
broil well. Many a very little piece of meat, nicely broiled, 
with*gravy in it, well seasoned with pepper and salt, a very 
little butter on it, and served up quite hot, will make a better 
and more nourishing meal than four times the amount of 
badly cooked in the frying pan. 

FRYINa 

Although very bad for chops or steaks, the frying pan is 
indispensable for some things, such as veal cutlets, lamb chops 
(sometimes), fish, pancakes, etc. Most meats and fish are 
usually fried with egg and bread crumbs. The frying pan 
must be kept clean. This is very essential, as the dirt that 
sticks to the pan absorbs the fat, prevents the meat browning, 
and turns it a nasty black color. Have a clear brisk fire, as 



lo The Dominion Cook Book. 

the quicker meat is fried the tenderer it is. According to what 
is to be fried, put little or much fat in the pan, fish and pan- 
cakes require a considerable quantity. The fat must always 
boil before putting the meat into it ; if not it coddles. For 
veal cutlets a little butter is best and most economical, as it 
helps to make the gravy; but even this expense may be 
dispensed with, if incompatible with the income of the family, 
and yet the cutlets be well cooked. Most have a few slices of 
bacon with either cutlets or liver ; the fat from this, if the bacon 
be not rank, will do very nicely ; and if the meat be well 
flavored and fried quickly, and some nice gravy made to it, few 
persons would know the difference. Some like thickened and 
some plain gravy to these fried meats ; some a large quantity, 
others very little ; all these must be accommodated. To make 
these gravies, have ready a little burnt sugar to brown with ; 
empty the pan of the fat, if it be, as is most likely, too rank to 
use ; put some warm water, as much as you wish to make, in 
the pan ; mix very smoothly sufficient flour and water to 
thicken it to taste ; into this put as much butter as you like to 
use (a little will do, and more will make it richer) ; pepper and 
salt it sufiiciently ; stir it very smoothly into the pan, while the 
water is only warm ; stir it well until it boils, and brown it with 
the burnt sugar to your taste. This will be a cheap and very 
nice gravy for all fried meats ; and where meat is short, chil- 
dren are very fond of such over potatoes, haricot beans, or 
even bread in their plates ; and not being too rich or greasy it 
will not disagree with them. Care must be taken after the 
gravy is boiled not to let it boil fast for any length of time, as 
all thickened gravies, hashes, etc., boil away very fast and dry 
up ; neither must it stand still in the pan ; a whitish scum then 
settles on the top and spoils the appearance of it. On the 
plainest and humblest table, dishes may as well look inviting. 
N. B. — For all frying purposes be particular that the pan is 
thoroughly hot before using. 




-«^3+^ * s o \y p s * m*^ 



1. CrOWdie, or Scotch Soup— Ingredients— 2 gallons of liquor 

from meat, )4 pint of oatmeal, 2 onions, salt and pepper. 

Any kind of liquor, either salt or fresh ; remove all fat from 
it, and put in a stewpan. Mix the oatmeal with a quarter of a pint 
of the liquor, into a smooth paste ; chop the onions as finely 
as possible, and put them into the paste, add salt and pepper 
to taste. Allow the liquor to boil before stirring in the paste, 
boil twenty minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent it getting 
lumpy. N.B — Salt to be omitted if salt liquor is used. 

2. Macaroni Soup — Ingredients 5 cts. worth of bones, i tablespoon- 

fill of salt and peppercorns, i good sized turnip and 4 leeks, 2 
carrots, 4 onions, 2 cloves, i blade of mace, i bunch of herbs, i.e. 
marjoram, thyme, lemon-thyme and parsley, J5^ lb. of macaroni. 

Time required about two and one half hours. Break up the 
bones and put them into a stewpan with cold water enough to 
cover them and one quart more. When on the point of boiling put 
in a tablespoonful of salt to help the scum to rise, then take the 
turnip, peel it and cut it in quarters ; then take two carrots, wash 
and scrape them ; take also four leeks, wash and shred them up 
finely ; now take four onions, peel them and stick two cloves into 
them ; then skim the soup well and put in the vegetables, add a 
blade of mace and a teaspoonful of peppercorns, then allow soup 
to simmer gently for two and one-half hours, then take one- 
quarter pound of macaroni, wash and put in a stewpan with plenty 
of cold water and a little salt. Allow it to boil until tender, then 
Strain off the water and pour some cold water on, to wash the 
macaroni again ; then cut in small pieces an4 it is ready for the 
soup. When the soup is ready for use strain it over the 
macaroni. 

II 



12 The Dominion Cook Book. 

3. Milk Soup— Ingredients — 4 potatoes, 2 leeks or onions, 2 oz. of 

butter, pepper % °^- of salt, I pint of milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of tapi- 
oca. 
Put two quarts of water into a stewpan, then take four potatoes, 
peel and cut in quarters, take also two leeks, wash well in cold 
water and cut them up ; when the water boils put in potatoes 
and leeks, then add the butter, salt, and pepper to taste. Allow 
it to boil to a mash, then strain the soup through a cullender, 
working the vegetables through also ; return the pulp and the 
soup to the stewpan, add one pint of milk to it and boil ; when 
boiling, sprinkle in by degrees tapioca, stirring all the time; 
then let it boil for fifteen minutes gently. 

4. Tapioca Soup— Ingredients — i pint of white stock, I oz. of tapioca, 

yolks of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, pepper and salt. 

Put Stock on to boil, then stir in gradually the tapioca, and 
allow it to simmer until quite clear, then to the yolks of the eggs 
add the cream or milk and stir with wooden spoon, strain into 
basin. Take stock from the fire to cool a little, add by degrees 
three tablespoonfuls of it to the liaison, stirring well all the 
time. Then mix all together, stir well, and add pepper and 
salt to taste. Warm before serving, but do not boil. 

5. Spring Vegetable Soup— Ingredients— 2 lbs. of the shin of 

beef, 2 lbs. of knuckle of veal, a little salt, 2 young carrots, I turnip, 
I leek, }4 head of celery, I cauliflower, I gill of peas, ^ of saltspoon- 
fiil of carbonate of soda. 

Cut the meat from the bone — do not use the fat ; break the 
bones in halves, do not use the marrow. Put the meat and 
bones into a stock pot with five pints of cold water, a teaspoon- 
ful of salt will assist the scum to rise, boil quickly and remove 
scum as it rises, then simmer gently five hours. Cut carrots 
and turnips in slices, the head of celery and leek, wash well and 
cut in squares, put the cauliflower in Sprig_s after washing. One 
hour before serving add vegetables ; the sprigs of cauliflower can 
be put in fifteen minutes before serving. Put one gill of peas, 
a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of a saltspoonful of soda into 
boiling water and boil fifteen minutes, then put peas in tureen 
and pour soup over them. 

6. Good Gravy Soup— Ingredients— i lb. of beef, i lb. of veal, lib. 

of mutton, 6 quarts of water, I crust of bread, i carrot, I onion, n 
little summer savory, 4 cloves, pepper, and a blade of mace. 

Cut the meat in small pieces and put into the water, with 



Soups. 13 

the crust of bread toasted very crisp. Peel the carrot and 
onion, and, with a little summer savory, pepper, four cloves, 
and a blade of mace, put in the stewpan. Cover it and let it 
stew slowly until the liquor is reduced to three quarts. Then 
strain it, take off the fat, and serve with sippets of toast. 

7. Scoth Mutton Broth— Ingredients— 2 qts. of water, neck of 

mutton, 4 or 5 carrots, 4 or S turnips, 3 onions, 4 large spoonfuls of 
Scotch barley, salt to taste, some chopped parsley. 

Soak a neck of mutton in water for an hour ; cut off the 
scrag, and put it into a stew-pot with two quarts of w?ter. As 
soon as it boils skim it well and then simmer it an hour an a 
half; then take the best end of the mutton, cut it into pieces 
(two bones in each), take some of the fat off, and put as many 
as you think proper ; skim the moment the fresh meat boils up, 
and every quarter of an hour afterwards. Have ready four or 
five carrots, the same number of turnips, and three onions, all 
cut, but not small, and put them in soon enough to get quite 
tender ; add four farge spoonfuls of Scotch barley, first wetted 
with cold water. The meat should stew three hours. Salt to 
taste, and serve all together. Twenty minutes before serving 
put in some chopped parsley. It is an excellent winter dish. 

8. A Roast Beef and Boiled Turkey Soup— Ingredients- 

Bones of a turkey and beef, 2 or 3 carrots, 2 or 3 onions, 2 or 3 tur- 
nips, yi doz. cloves, pepper, salt, and tomatoes, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
flour, some bread. 
Take the liquor that the turkey is boiled in, and the bones 
of the turkey and beef; put them into a soup-pot with two or 
three carrots, turnips and onions, half a dozen cloves, pepper,salt, 
and tomatoes,if you have any; boil it four hours, then strain all 
out. Put the soup back into the pot, mix two tablespoonfuls 
of flour into a little cold water ; stir it into the soup ; give it 
one boil. Cut some bread dice form, lay it in the bottom of 
the tureen, pour the soup on to it, and color with a little soy. 

9. Veal or Lamb Soup— Ingredients— Knuckle of veal, 2 onions, S 

or 6 turnips, some sweet marjoram, salt and cayenne pepper, flour, 
6 or 8 potatoes, a few dumplings, I tablespoonful of burnt sugar. 

Take a knuckle of veal, crack the bone, wash, and put it on 
to boil in more than suiBcient water to cover it. After boiling 
some time, pare, cut, and wash two onions, five or six turnips, 
and put in with the meat. When this has boiled one hour add 
some sweet majoram, rubbed fine, with salt and cayenne pepper 



14 The Dominion Cook Book. 

to taste. Then take flour, which mix with cold water to the 
consistency of cream, and add to the soup while boiling. Care 
must be taken not to make it too thick. Then pare and cut 
into small pieces six or eight potatoes, which add about half 
an hour before being served ; and about ten minutes before 
sending to table put in a few dumplings. As veal makes a 
white soup, the color is much improved by adding a table- 
spoonful of burnt sugar. This soup may be thickened with 
rice, if preferable. 

10. French Soup— Ingredients — I sheep's head, 3 qts. of water, 

I bunch of sweet herbs, i teacupful of pearl barley, 6 onions, I 
turnip, I carrot, few cloves, mushroom catsup, butter and flour. 

Take one sheep's head, remove the brains, and steep it as 
before. Put it into a saucepan with three quarts of water, one 
teacupful of pearl barley, six onions, one turnip, one carrot, a 
bunch of sweet herbs, and a few cloves. Let it simmer gently 
for about five hours, then remove the head ; strain and rub the 
vegetables through a sieve, or leave them whole, according to 
taste ; Let it stand all night, and when cold take off every par- 
ticle of fat ; cut up the meat from the head into small pieces 
and warm it up in the soup. Season to taste, add a little mush- 
room ketchup, and thicken with butter and flour. This will 
be found very little inferior to mock turtle soup. 

11. Greek Soup — Ingredients — 4 lbs. of lean beef, I lb. of lean mut- 

ton, I lb of veal, 4 ozs. of lean ham, 4 carrots, 4 onions, I head of 
celery, a little soy, a few allspice and a few coriander seeds, some 
pepper and salt, 10 qts. of water. 

Cut up the beef, mutton, and veal into small pieces and 
throw into a stewpan with ten quarts of cold water ; add a 
little salt, and then place on the stove to boil ; take off the 
scum, add a little cold water, and take ofi" the second scum j 
then cut up the carrots, onions and celery and throw in the 
pot ; add a little more salt, a few allspice and coriander seeds ; 
let it simmer six hours, color the soup with a little soy, and 
strain it through a fine cloth ; take ofi" any fat that may be on 
the soup with a sheet of paper ; before sending to table boil 
the soup, and place in the tureen a little fried lean ham cut 
into small pieces. 

12. Giblet Soup — Ingredients — 3 sets of ducks' giblets, 2 lbs. of beef, 

some bones, shank bones of two legs of mutton, 3 onions, some 
herbs, pepper and salt, carrots, 3 qts. of water, X pt- of cream, i 
oz. of butter, I spoonful of flour. 



Soups. 



IS 



Thoroughly clean three sets of ducks' giblets, cut them in 
pieces and stew with two pounds of beef, some bones, the 
shank bones of two legs of mutton, three small onions, some 
herbs, pepper and salt to taste, and carrots, for three hours in 
three quarts of water. Strain and skim, add one quarter pint 
of cream mixed with one ounce of butter kneaded with a 
spoonful of flour and serve with the giblets. (Only the gizzard 
should be cut). 

13. Calf S Head Soup— Ingredients— 7 lbs. of shin of beef, a little 

lean ham, 5 qts. of water, l oz. of salt, savory herbs, I onion, some 
celery, 3 carrots, 2 turnips, a little mace, 8 or 10 cloves, some 
peppercorns, yi calf s head, 8 ozs. fine rice flour, ^ teaspoonful of 
cayenne, some pounded mace, some forcemeat. 

Stew seven pounds of shin of beef with a little lean ham in 
five quarts of water till reduced one half, adding, when boiling, 
one ounce of salt, savory herbs, one onion, some celery, three 
carrots, two turnips, a little mace, eight or ten cloves, some 
peppercorns. It should gently boil seven hours and then be 
set aside for use. In this stock stew half a boned calPs head, 
rolled and tied with a string, half an hour ; let it cool in the 
liquor, strain and skim and heat five pints in a large saucepan 
with the flesh of the head cut into dice ; use all the skin and 
tongue but only part of the flesh. Simpler till quite tender, 
stirring in eight ounces of fine rice flour, one quarter teaspoon- 
ful of cayenne, pounded mace, and some more broth or water 
if thicker than batter. Boil ten minutes, and serve the soup 
with fried forcemeat. 

14. Mullagatawny Soup — Ingredients— Some good butter, 3 or 

4 large onions, limbs of a rabbit or fowl, S^ pts. of boiling stock, 
2 tablespoonfuls of currie powder, and 3 of browned flour, a little 
cold stock and meat, part of a pickled mango, some carefully boiled 
rice, the juice of a lemon. 

Slice and fry in some good butter three or four large onions ; 
put them in a saucepan with a little butter, and brown in it the 
limbs of a rabbit or fowl well floured. Add one quart of good 
boiling stock, and stew gently one hour. Pass the stock and 
onions through a strainer, add one and a half pints more 
stock, put it in a clean pan, and when boiling add two table- 
spoonfuls of currie j^owder mixed with three of brown flour, a 
little cold stock and meat, and simmer twenty minutes. Part 
of a pickled mango cut into shreds is often served with the soup, 



1 6 The Dominion Cook Book. 

and some like the taste of freshly grated cocoa nut, but it is by 
no means generally admired. Send to table with carefully 
boiled rice. The juice of a lemon added before serving is an 
improvement. 

15. Oyster Soup A La Reine— Ingredients— 2 or 3 doz. small 

oysters, some pale veal stock, 2 qts. of stock, mace, cayenne, I pt. 
boiling cream. 

Two or three dozen small oysters to each pint of soup 
should be prepared. Take the beards and simmer them sepa- 
rately in a little very pale veal stock thirty minutes. Heat two 
quarts of the stock, flavor with mace and cayenne, and add the 
strained stock from the oyster beards. Simmer the fish in 
their own liquor, add to it the soup and one pint of boiling 
cream. Put the oysters in a tureen, pour over the soup, and 
serve. If not thick enough thicken with arrowroot or butter 
mixed with flour. 

16. Chicken Soup (Brown) — Ingredients — i or 2 fowls, a bunch of 

herbs, I carrot, I onion, 2 oz. of lean hara, 2 oz. of butter, pepper 
and salt, 2 qts. of good stock, and a little roux, a few allspice, a 
little grated nutmeg and mace. 

Cut up the carrot and onion, and fry in two ounces of good 
butter a nice light brown, add the ham and fowl cut up small, 
taking care to break up the bones with a chopper, add the stock 
and boil until the fowl is cooked to rags ; thicken with a little 
roux, add the allspice and mace and a little grated nutmeg, color 
with a little soy, add seasoning to taste. Serve with the soup 
some plain boiled rice. 

17. Beef Gravy Soup— Ingredients— Some beef water, 2 oz. of salt 

to every gal. of water, 4 turnips, 2 carrots, some celery, 4 young 
leeks, 6 cloves, I onion, }4 teaspoonful of peppercorns, some savory 
herbs. 

Various parts of beef are used for this ; if the meat, after the 
soup is made, is to be sent to the table, rump steak or the best 
parts of the leg are generally used, but if soup alone is wanted, 
part of the shin with a pound from the neck will do very well. 
Pour cold water on the beef in the soup pot and heat the soup 
slowly, the slower the better, letting it simmer beside the fire, 
strain it carefully, adding a little cold water now and then, put in 
two ounces of salt for every gallon of water, skim again, and put 
in four turnips, two carrots, some celery, four young leeks, six 
cloves stuck into an onion, half a teaspoonful of peppercorns. 



Soups. 



17 



and some savory herbs ; let this soup boil gently for six hours ; 
strain. 

18. Rice-Flour Soup— Ingredients— A little cold broth, 8 oz. of fine 

rice-flour, 2 qts. of fast boiling broth, mace, cayenne and salt, 
2 dessertspoonfuls of currie powder, juice of _}^ a lemon. 

Mix to a smooth batter, with a little cold broth, eight oz. of 
fine rice-flour, and pour it into a couple of quarts of fast boiling 
broth or gravy soup. Add to it a seasoning of mace and cay- 
enne, with a little salt if needful. It will require but ten 
minutes boiling. Two dessertspoonfuls of currie powder, and 
the strained juice of half a moderate sized lemon, will greatly 
improve this soup ; it may also be converted into a good com- 
mon white soup (if it be made of real stock) by the addition of 
three quarters of a pt. of thick cream to the rice. 

19. Milk Soup With Vermicelli— Ingredients— Salt, 5 pts. of 

boiling milk, 5 oz. of fresh vermicelli. 

Throw a small quantity of salt into five pints of boiling 
milk, and then drop lightly into it five ounces of good fresh ver- 
miceUi ; keep the milk stirred as this is added to prevent its 
gathering into lumps, and continue to stir it very frequently 
from fifteen to twenty minntes, or until it is perfectly tender. 
The addition of a little pounded sugar and powdered cinnamon 
makes this a very palatable dish. For soup of this description, 
rice, semolina, sago, cocoa-nut, sago and macaroni, may all 
be used, but they will be required in rather smaller proportions 
to the milk. 

20. Green Pea Soup — Ingredients — 4 lbs. of beef, % pk. of green 

peas, I gal. of water, ^ cup of rice-flour, salt, pepper and chopped 
parsley. 

Four pounds beef, cut into small pieces, half a peck of green 
peas, one gallon water, half a cup of rice-flour, salt, pepper and 
chopped parsley ; boil the empty pods of the peas in the water 
one hour before putting in the beef. Strain them out, add the 
beef, and boil slowly for an hour and a half longer. Half an 
hour before serving, add the shelled peas, and twenty minutes 
later, the rice-flour, with salt, pepper and parsley. After adding 
the rice-flour, stir frequently, to prevent scorching. Strain into 
a hot tureen. 

21. Celery Soup — Ingredients — The white part of 3 heads of celery, 

yi a lb. of rice, I onion, i q', of stock, 2 qts. of milk, pepper aad 
salt, and a little ruux. 



The Dominion Cook Book. 



Cut up the celery and onions very small, boil them in t' e 
stock until quite tender, add the milk and the rice, and boil to- 
gether until quite a pulp, add pepper and salt and a little roux, 
strain through a fine hair sieve or metal strainer, and boil a few 
minutes, taking care it does not burn. Serve some small crou- 
tons of fried bread with it. 

22. Tomato Soup— Ingredients— 4 lbs. of tomatoes, 2 onions, i 

carrot, 2 qts of stock or broth, pepper and salt, a little roux, 2 oz. 
of fresh butter. 

Cut up the onions and carrots, place them in a stewpan with 
the butter, and lightly fry them. Take the seeds out of the 
tomatoes, then put them in the stewpan with the fried onions 
and carrot, add the stock, pepper and salt, and let them boil for 
one hour, occasionally stirring them : add a little roux to thicken 
the soup, and strain through a fine hair sieve. ' Serve the soup 
very hot, and send to table with it some small pieces of fried 
bread, sprinkled with chopped parsley. 

23. White Soup — Ingredients — 6 oz. of sweet almonds, 6 oz. of the 

breast of roasted chicken, 3 oz. of white bread, some veal stock, i 
pt. of thick cream. 

Pound six ounces of sweet almonds, six ounces of the breast of 
roasted chicken, and three oz. of white bread soaked in veal 
stock and squeezed dry. Beat all to a paste and pour over it 
two quarts of boiling veal stock, strain through a hair sieve, add 
one pint of thick cream, and serve as soon as it is on the point 
of boiling. 

24. Apple Soup — Ingredients — 12 large fresh apples, 2 spoonfuls of 

sugar or syrup, y^ lb. of raisins or apples, i spoonful of potato meal. 

Dry well twelve large fresh apples,cut them in quarters, and 
put them into a pan with boiling water. When the soup has a 
strong taste of apples, strain it through a hair sieve, and add 
more water, until there are about nine pints; add two good 
spoonfuls of sugar or syrup, half a pound of well-washed and 
picked raisins, or apples pared and cut in pieces, which must be 
boiled until soft. The soup is to be thickened with a good 
spoonful of potato-meal, dissolved in a little water. It is best 
cold. 

25. Soup A La Dauphine— Ingredients— 6 pounds of lean beef, 

4 carrots, 2 turnips, 4 onions, i head of celery, 4 oz. of lean ham, 
pepper and salt, a little soy, 2 bay leaves, a bunch of herbs, a few 
allspice, 2 blades of mace, 5 qts. of water. 



Soups. 19 

Cut up the onions, carrots, turnips, and celery into small 
pieces, and lay in the bottom of a large stewpan ; cut up the six 
lbs. of lean beef, and lay on the top of vegetables, sprinkle a 
little salt over it, and cook over the fire (taking care it does not 
burn) for two hours, add five quarts of water, and bring it to a 
boil ; take off the fat and scum, add a little more cold water, 
and hrow in two blades of mace, two bay leaves, a bunch of 
herbs, four ounces of lean ham cut up very fine, and a few allspice, 
color a light brown with a little soy, and simmer for five hours, 
and then strain through a fine cloth, and with a sheet of paper 
take off any floating fat ; boil again, and before serving throw 
in the soup some green taragon leaves, and a little chervil. 

26. Julienne Soup — Ingredients — I carrot, l turnip, i stick ofceleiy, 

3 parsnips, 2 or 3 cabbage leaves, butter, I lettuce, i handful of 
sorrel and chervil, stock, salt and pepper. ^ 

Cut in very small slices a carrot, a turnip, a stick of celery, 
three parsnips, and two or three cabbage leaves, put them in a 
saucepan with butter and give them a nice color, shaking the 
saucepan to prevent them from sticking to the bottom.thtn add a 
lettuce and a handful of sorrel and chervil torn in small pieces, 
moisten these with stock and leave them on the fire for a few 
minutes, then boil up, add the whole of the stock and boil 
gently for three hours ; season with salt and pepper. 

27. Asparagus Soup — Ingredients -25 heads of asparagus, i qt. of 

stock, I tablespoonful of flour, I oz. of butter, sugar, pepper and 
salt ; some spinach greening, I pat of fresh butter or i gill of cream, 
small dice of bread. 
Take twenty-five heads of asparagus, put them in a sauce- 
pan with a quart of stock, free from fat, let them boil till quite 
done ; remove the asparagus, pound it in a mortar, then pass it 
through a sieve ; mix a tablespoonful of flour and one oz. of 
butter in a saucepan on the fire, add a little sugar, pepper and 
salt, quantity sufficient for the asparagus pulp, and the stock in 
which the asparagus was originally boiled ; let the whole come 
to a boil, then put in a little spinach greening, and lastly a pat 
of fresh butter, or stir in a gill of cream. Serve over small dice 
of bread fried in butter. 

28. Spanish Soup (i)— Ingredients— ij^ lbs. of mutton or veal, i}4 

lbs. of garbanzos or chick peas, I slice of lean raw ham, remnants of 
game or poultry, a little bacon, salt, vegetables. 
Throw one pound and a half of either mutton or veal into a 



The Dominion Cook Book. 



vessel with water (the Spaniards use a pipkin, called in the 
vernaculara "marmite,"), onepoundandahalfof "garbanzos," 
or chick peas, one good slice of lean raw ham, and any debris 
(no matter how small) of game or poultry. Cook gently with 
the lid on, skim, and add a little bacon cut small, and as much 
salt as necessary ;' cook for another half hour, then pour off the 
broth slowly, to be used afterwards for the soup and sauce ; 
add as much vegetable as you please, thoroughly well washed, 
and cook over a clear fire until done. About five minutes be- 
fore the OUa is ready, it is de rigueur in Madrid kitchens to 
throw in a piece of "chorizo" (black pudding). Serve the 
meat separately on one dish, the vegetables on another, and in 
a third the sauce for the whole, either of the following being 
appropriate. 

TOMATO. — Cook three or four juicy tomatoes until 
quite tender, and pass them through a sieve. Add some of 
the broth, some vinegar and salt, to the pur^e. 

PARSLEY. — Pound some young parsley and bread crumbs 
in a mortar. Moisten with the broth, add vinegar and salt to 
taste. 

These sauces should properly be served in a small silver or 
china bowl, surrounded by vegetables. For the tomato, spring 
and summer vegetables, and for the parsley sauce, those of 
autumn and winter are customarily used, with the rigorous 
exclusion, in both cases, of cabbage. 

A Cocido compounded of the above ingredients, without the 
auxiliary black pudding or vegetables, the Spaniards call a 
" Puchero," de los enfermas. 

29. Spanish Soup (2)— Ingredients— i clove of garlic, 7 well dried 
beans or almonds, olive oil and water, vinegar and salt, bread 
crumbs. 

The second soup, Ajo bianco, or white garlic soup, is more 
intricate in its manufacture, though compounded of as quaint 
and unlikely materials. It is extensively eUten in Andalusia. 
To be completely veracious, I must of necessity commence 
with that formidable brother to our harmless, necessary little 
onion — big garlic. Pound one clove of garlic and seven well 
dried beans, or better still, almonds, in a small spice mortar to 
a smooth paste. Moisten this paste with olive oil, drop by 
drop, then water by degrees, so as to thoroughly incorporate 
and amalgamate the whole. Add until it is sufficiently wet to 



Sours. 2 1 

soak some bread, which must be added later on, pouring in 
some vinegar and a little salt. Then put in the bread crumbs, 
size of half an almond, and allow it to soak. A final mixing 
of the bowl, and this quaint and perfectly national dish awaits 
your consumption. 

30. Barley Soup (Creme D'Orge)— Ingredients— >^ pt. of 

pearl barley, i qt. of white stock, the yoke of one egg, I gill of 
cream, yi pat of fresh butter, bread. ^ 

Boil half a pt. of pearl barley in a qt. of white stock till it is 
reduced to a pulp, pass it through a hair sieve, and add to it 
as much well flavored white stock as will give a pur^e of the 
consistency of cream ; put the soup on the fire, when it boils 
stir into it, ofi" the fire, the yolk of an egg beaten up with a gill 
of cream ; add half a pat of fresh butter, and serve with small 
dice of bread fried in butter. 

31. Lobster Soup (Bisque) — Ingredients— i lobster, butter, 

pepper, salt and grated nutmeg, bread crumbs, stock, 1 tablespoon- 
fiil of flour, bread. 

Pick out all the meat from a lobster, pound it in a mortar 
with an equal quantity of butter until a fine orange-colored 
pulp is obtained ; to this add pepper, salt and grated nutmeg 
to taste. Take as much bread crumbs as there is lobster pulp, 
soak them in stock; then melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, 
amalgamate with it a heaped tablespoonful of flour ; mix the 
lobster pulp with the bread crumbs, and put them into the 
saucepan with the butter and flour, stir well, and add more 
stock until a pur^e is obtained, rather thinner in consistency 
than the soup should be. Put the saucepan on the fire, stirring 
the contents until they thicken and boil ; draw it then on one 
side, and carefully skim off superfluous fat, then strain the 
soup through a hair sieve, make it boiling hot, and serve with 
smdl dice of bread fried in butter. 

32. Soup made from Bones— Ingredients— Bones of anyfreshly 

roasted meat, remnants of any poultry or game, fresh livers, gizzards, 

necks, combs of any poultry, i slice of lean ham, salt, I onion, I 

turnip, I leek, I head of celery, 4 carrots, 3 tomatoes, }i of bay 

leaf, 3 or 4 cloves, 6 pepper corns, 3 allspice, I bunch of parsley and 

chervil, tapioca, sago, vermicelli or semolina. 

Have the bones of any freshly roasted meat — beef, veal, 

pork, venison, mutton or lamb — broken up into largish pieces, 

the four first sorts may be mixed with advantage, while mutton 

and lamb are better alone. Add the carcases or remaining 



The Dominion Cook Book. 



limbs of any roast poultry — ducks, fowls, pigeons, geese, turkey 
or game, and the fresh livers, gizzards, necks, and combs of 
any poultry you happen to be going to cook the same day, and 
a slice of lean ham if you have it. Put all these together in an 
earthen soup pan that will stand the fire and will hold one- 
third more cold water than you require for your soup to allow 
for the loss in boiling ; fill with water, and place on a brisk fire 
till it boils. Then add salt (less quantity if there be ham in 
the soup), one large onion, one large turnip, one large leek, 
one head of celery, four large carrots, three sliced tomatoes, a 
quarter of a bay leaf, three or four cloves stuck into a carrot or 
turnip, six whole peppercorns, three allspice whole, and, finally, 
a good-sized bunch of parsley and chervil tied together. We 
find a piece of calf s liver and a fresh young cabbage an im- 
provement, but this is a matter of taste. When boiling skim 
thoroughly, and take the pot off the fire, placing it quite at the 
edge so as merely to simmer gently — or, as the French call it, to 
smile — for six hours at least. The great art in making this 
sort of simple broth is never to let the fire go down too much, 
nor to allow the soup to boil too fast, so as not to require 
filling up with other water to replace what has been consumed 
— or, rather, wasted by rapid ebullition. Half an hour before 
you require your soup take it off the fire and strain through a 
cullender, then through a fine sieve, and put it on a brisk fire. 
When quite boiling add tapioca, sago, vermicelli, or semolina, 
scattering it lightly, and allowing one tablespoonful to each 
person. Rice may also be used, but it requires a full half hour, 
and consumes more broth. We use this broth as a foundation 
to every kind of vegetable purees. 

33. Oxtail Soup (Clear). — Ingredients — I oxtail, 4 carrots, 4 onions, 
2 turnips, I bunch of herbs, little allspice, I head of celery, 2 qts. of 
good stock, a little soy, pepper, salt, }i lb. of lean beef. 

Cut up the oxtail into small pieces, well blanch them in salt 
and water, boil them in water, throw into cold water. Cut up 
the vegetables into small pieces (taking care to save some of 
the best pieces for boiling to go in the soup to table), throw 
them into a stewpan with the herbs, allspice, soy, pepper and 
salt, put the oxtail on the top, cover with the gravy, and cook 
until the tail is quite tender. When cooked, take out the tail, 
and cut up half a pound of lean beef quite fine and throw in 
the gravy, let it boil a few minutes, and strain through a cloth, 



Soups. 23 

add the pieces of tail and some pieces of carrot and turnip 
cooked as follows : Boil the vegetables in water, with a little 
sugar, salt, and a small piece of butter. Serve very hot. 

34. Oxtail Soup (Thick). — Ingredients — I oxtail, 6 carrots, 4onions, 

4 turnips, allspice, i head of celery, i qt. of water, i qt. of stock, a 
pinch of pepper, sugar and salt, some roux. 

Cut up the oxtail into small pieces, throw them into cold 
water with a little salt, bring them to the boil, and throw them 
into clean cold water. Cut up the vegetables into a stewpan, 
place the oxtail on the top, cover with the water and stock, let 
it simmer until the oxtail is quite tender, take out the pieces 
of tail, add the roux to the gravy, also the sugar and the season- 
ing. Boil well together, strain through a fine hair sieve, taking 
care to pass the vegetable pulp through, drop in the pieces of 
tail, and bring to the boil. Let it stand on the side of the 
stove until wanted. 

35. IMocIc Turtle Soup — Ingredients — A knuckle of veal, 2 cow'f 

heels, 2 onions, a few cloves, a little allspice, mace and sweet herbs. 
2}i qts. of water, I tablespoonful of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
walnut, I of mushroom catsup, I tablespoonful of lemon juice, force- 
meat balls. 
Put into a large pan or jar a knuckle of veal, two well- 
cleaned cow-heels, two onions, a few cloves, a little allspice, 
mace, and some sweet herbs ; cover all with two and a half 
quarts of water, and set it in a hot oven for three hours. Then 
remove it, and when cold take off the fat very nicely, take away 
the bones and coarse parts, and when required, put the 
remainder on the fire to warm, with a tablespoonful of moist 
sugar, two of walnut, and one of mushroom catsup ; add to 
these ingredients the jelly of the meat. When it is quite hot 
put in the forcemeat balls, and add a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice. 

36. Mock Turtle Soup— Ingredients— ^ a calfs head, % lb. of 

butter, X 1^- °f '^*" ham, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced parsley, a 
little minced lemon thyme, a little sweet marjoram and basil, 2 
onions, a few chopped mushrooms, 2 shallots, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
flour, l}i doz. forcemeat balls about the size of a nutmeg ; cayenne 
and salt, to suit your taste ; the juice of i lemon, and i Seville 
orange, i dessertspoonful of pounded sugar, 3 qts. of best stock. 

Proceed as in Recipe No. 35. 

37. Onion Soup— Ingredients— Water that has boiled a leg or neck of 

mutton, I shank bone, 6 onions, 4 carrots, 2 turnips, salt to taste. 



24 The Dominion Cook Book. 

Into the water that has boiled a leg or neck of mutton put 
the carrots and turnips, shank bone, and simmer two hours, 
then strain it on six onions, first sliced and fried a light brown, 
simmer three hours, skim carefully, and serve. Put into it a 
little roll or fried bread. . 

38. Tomato Soup — Ingredients — 8 middling sized tomatoes, i bundle 
of sweet herbs, i clove of garlic, I onion stuck with 3 or 4 cloves, 
a little allspice, whole pepper, salt to taste, i qt. of stock, 2 eggs. 

Take tomatoes, cut them in two, and removing the pips of 
watery substance, put them in a saucepan, with a bundle of 
sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, an onion stuck with three or four 
cloves, some allspice, whole pepper, and salt to taste. Place 
the saucepan on a gentle fire, stirring contents occasionally. 
When the tomatoes are thoroughly done, turn them out on a 
hair sieve, remove the onion, garlic, and sweet herbs ; remove 
also the moisture which will drip from the tomatoes ; then work 
them through the sieve until nothing remains on the top but 
the skins. Have a quart of plain stock boiling hot, stir the 
tomato pulp into it, and, removing the saucepan from the fire, 
stir in two eggs, beaten up with a little cold water and strained. 
Serve over small dice of bread fried in butter. 





lllllli m iltlllTtT HH ITT 

rt FilSH 3 

OBSERVATIONS ON DRESSING FISH, 

If the fishmonger does not clean it, fish is seldom very 
nicely done, but those in great towns wash it beyond what is 
necessary for cleaning, and so by much washing diminish the 
flavor. If to be boiled, some salt and a little vinegar should 
be put in the water to give firmness ; but cod, whiting, and 
haddock are far better if salted and kept a day ; and if not very 
hot weather they will be better kept two days. Those who 
know how to purchase fish may, by taking more than they want 
for one day, often get it cheaper; and such kinds as will pot 
or pickle, or keep by being sprinkled with salt, and hung up, 
or being fried will serve for stewing the next day, may then be 
bought with advantage. Fresh water fish have often a muddy 
smell and taste, to take off" which soak it in strong salt and 
water after it is nicely cleaned, then dry and dress it. The fish 
must be put in the water while cold and sfit to do very gently, 
or the outside will break before the inner part is done. Crimp 
fish should be put into boiling water, and when it boils up put 
a little cold water in, to check extreme heat, and simmer it a 
few minutes. Small fish nicely fried, covered with egg and 
crumbs, make a dish far more elegant than if served plain. 
Great attention should be paid to the garnishing of fish, use 
plenty of horse-radish, parsley and lemon. If fish is to be 
fried or broiled it must be wrapped in a clean cloth after it is 
well cleaned. When perfectly dry, wet with an egg (if for fry- 
ing) and sprinkle the finest bread crumbs over it, then, with a 
large quantity of lard or dripping boiling hot, plunge the fish 
into it and fry a light brown ; it can then be laid on blotting 
paper to receive any grease. Butter gives a bad color, oil fries 
the finest color for those who will allow for the expense. Garn- 
ish with raw or fried parsley which must be thus done : when 
washed and picked throw it again into cold water ; when the 

25 



26 The Dominion Cook Book. 

lard or dripping boils, throw the parsley into it immediately 
from the water and instantly it will be green and crisp, and 
must be taken up with a slice. If fish is to be broiled, it must 
be seasoned, flavored and put on a gridiron that is very clean, 
which when hot should be rubbed with a piece of suet to pre- 
vent the fish from sticking. It must be broiled on a very clear 
fire and not too near or it may be scorched. 



39. Cod's Head and Shoulders (to boil)— Ingredients— i 

cod's head and shoulders, salt water, i glass of vinegar, horse-radish. 

Wash and tie it up, and dry with a cloth. Salt the water, 
and put in a glass of vinegar. When boiling, take off the scum; 
put the fish in, and keep it boiling very briskly about half an 
hour. Parboil the milt and roe, cut in thin sKces, fry, and 
serve them. Garnish with horse-radish; for sauce, oysters, 
eggs, or drawn butter. 

40. Cod's Head and Shoulders— Ingredients-I bunch parsley, 

I lemon, horse-radish, milt, roe and liver. 

Tie it up, and put on the fire in cold water which will com- 
pletely cover it ; throw a handful of salt into it. Great care 
must be taken to serve it without the smallest speck of black 
or scum. Garnish with a large quantity of double parsley, 
lemon, horse-radish, and the milt, roe and liver, and fried 
smelts if approved. If with smelts, be careful that no water 
hangs about the fish ; or the beauty of the smelts will be taken 
off, as well as their flavor. Serve with plenty of oyster or 
shrimp sauce, and anchovy and butter. It will eat much finer 
by having a little salt rubbed down the bone, and along the 
thick part, even if to be eaten the same day. 

Though it is important to buy fresh codfish, it is not quite 
so well to cook it immediately, as, when freshly caught, it is apt 
to be watery ; but when rubbed with salt and kept a day or 
two, it acquires the firmness and creaminess so much prized. 
Cod is better crimped than when cooksd whole, the operation 
of boiling being more successfully performed under these con- 
ditions. The fish may be partially crimped by scoring it at 
equal distances, without absolutely cutting it through into 
slices ; but the effect of the operation is always to improve the 
fish. When thoroughly cleaned the cod should be scored or 
sliced at regular intervals of about one and a half or two inches, 
then washed clean in spring-water, and laid in a pan of spring- 



Fish. 27 

water in which a handful of salt has been allowed to dissolve. 
After about two hours' soaking in this brine, the fish may be 
washed and set to drain. Some people boil the cod whole; 
but a large head and shoulders contain all the fish that is pro- 
per to help, the thinner parts being overdone and tasteless, 
before the thick are ready. But the whole fish may be pur- 
chased at times more reasonably ; and the lower half, if 
sprinkled and hung up, will be in high perfection in one or two 
days. Or it may be made Salter, and served with egg-sauce, 
potatoes and parsnips. 

41. Salt Cod — Ingredients — Cod, vinegar (I glass), parsnips, cream, 

batter, flour. 

Soak and clean the piece you mean to dress, then lay it all 
night in water, with a glass of vinegar. Boil it enough, then 
break it into flakes on the dish ; pour over it parsnips boiled, 
beaten in a mortar, and then boiled up with cream and a large 
piece of butter rubbed with a little flour. It may be served 
as above with egg sauce instead of the parsnip, and the rest 
sent up whole ; or the fish may be boiled and sent up without 
flaking, and sauces as above. 

42. Curry of Cod — Ingredients— Salt and cayenne, cod, onions, 

white gravy, curry powder, butter, flour, 3 or 4 spoonfuls of cream. 
Should be made of sliced cod, that has been either crimped 
or sprinkled a day to make it firm. Fry it of a fine brown with 
onion J and stew it with a good white gravy, a little curr-y 
powder, a piece of butter and flour, three or four spoonfuls of 
rich cream, salt, and cayenne, if the powder be not hot enough. 

43. Cod's Roes — Ingredients — i or more cod's roes, i)4 oz. of butter, 

2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of salt, i pinch of cayenne pepper, i grate of 
nutmeg, i dessertspoonful of tomato or Mogul sauce or vinegar. 

Boil one or more cod's roes, according to size, till quite set 
and nearly done. Take them out of the water, and when cold 
cut them into slices three-quarters of an inch thick. Now put 
into a small stewpan one and a half oz. of butter ; when made 
liquid over the fire, take it off and stir into it the yolks of two 
eggs, a small teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper, a 
grate of nutmeg, and a dessertspoonful of tomato or Mogul 
sauce, or the vinegar from any good pickle. Mix all well to- 
gether, and stir it over the fire for two or three minutes to 
thicken. Dip the slices of cod's roe in this sauce to take up as 



28 The Dominion Cook Book. 

much as they will, lay them in a dish, pour over them any of 
the sauce that may be left, put the dish into the oven for ten 
minutes, and send to table very hot. 

44. Crimped Cod and Oyster Sauce— Ingredients— Cod and 

salt water. 
Cut into two-inch slices the best part of a fresh cod, boil 
them twenty or twenty-five minutes in boiling salted water ; 
serve on a napkin with the sauce in a tureen. 

45. Cod Steaks (with iVIock Oyster Sauce)— Ingredients— 

I tail of cod or head and shoulders, salt, and bread crumbs. 

The most economical way of having cod steaks is to order 
either the tail of a good-sized cod or a cod's head and shoulders, 
so cut that there is sufficient to take off some steaks, and what 
remains comes in for luncheon or the children's dinner the 
following day. Sprinkle the cod with salt, and fry, either with 
or without bread crumbs, a golden brown. 

46. Codfish Balls — Ingredients — Equal quantities of potatoes and 

boiled codfish, i oz. of butter, i egg. 

Take equal quantities of mashed potatoes and boiled codfish 
minced fine ; to each half pound allow one ounce of butter and a 
well beaten egg ; mix thoroughly. Press into balls between two 
spoons ; drop into hot lard, and fry till brown. 

47. Salt Salmon (to Souse)— Ingredients— l salt salmon, cayenne, 

whole allspice, a little mace, cold vinegar. 

Take a salt salmon, wash and cover it with plenty of clean 
water. Let it soak twenty-four hours, but be careful to change 
the water several times. Then scale it, cut it into four parts, 
wash, clean, and put on to boil. When half done change the 
water ; and when tender, drain it, put it in a stone pan, sprin- 
kle some cayenne, whole allspice, a few cloves, and a little 
mace over each piece ; cover with cold vinegar. This makes a 
nice relish for tea. 

48. Salmon (to Broil) — Ingredients— Salmon, pepper, salt. 

Cut slices an inch thick, and season with pepper and salt ; 
lay each slice in half a sheet of white paper well buttered, twist 
the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over a slow fire six 
or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy sauce. 

49. Salmon (to Pot) — Ingredients — Salmon, a little mace, 6 cloves, 

6 whole peppers, butter. 

Take a large piece, scale and wipe, but do not wash it ; salt 



Fish. 29 

very well, let it lie till the salt is melted and drained from it, 
then season with beaten mace, cloves, and whole pepper ; lay 
in a few bay leaves, put it closfe into a pan, cover it over with 
butter, and bake it ; when well done, drain it from the gravy, 
put it into the pots to keep, and when cold, cover it with clari- 
fied butter. In this manner you may do any firm fish. 

50. Salmon (to Dry) — Ingredients — Salt, 3 or 4 oz. of saltpetre, 2 

oz. of bay salt, 2 oz. of coarse sugar. 

Cut the fish down, take out the inside and roe. Rub the 
whole with common salt after scaling it ; let it hang for twenty- 
four hours to drain. Pound three or four ounces of saltpetre, 
according to the size of the fish, two ounces of bay salt, and two 
ounces of coarse sugar ; rub these, when mixed well, into the 
salmon, and lay it on a large dish or tray two days, then 
rub it well with common salt, and in twenty-four hours more 
it will be fit to dry ; wipe it well after draining. Hang it either 
in a wood chimney or in a dry place ; keeping it open with 
two small sticks. Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, 
and only just warmed through; egg sauce and mashed pota- 
toes with it ; or it may be boiled, especially the piece next the 
head. 

51. Sainnon (Dried)— Ingredients— Flakes of salmon, 2 eggs, i pt. 

cream, 2 or 3 oz. butter, i teaspoonful of flour, mashed potatoes. 
Pull some into flakes ; have ready some egRS boiled hard, 
and chopped large ; put both into half a pint of thin cream, 
and two or three ounces of butter rubbed with a teaspoonful of 
flour ; skim it and stir till boiling hot ; make a wall of mashed 
potatoes round the inner edge of a dish, and pour the above 
into it. 

52. Salmon (Fried with Anchovy Sauce)— Ingredients- 

Some thin slices from the tail end of a salmon, anchovy sauce, flour, 

bread crumbs, eggs, water, a little roux, a little cayenne pepper, 

lard. 

Scrape the scales off the tail end of a salmon, cut in thin 

shoes, dip them in flour, then in two eggs whisked up with a 

tablespoonful of water, and a tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, 

then dip them in bread crumbs, and fry in boiling lard for eight 

or ten minutes ; dish them up on a napkin in a nice heap, and 

sprinkle a little chopped parsley over them, and serve m a 

sauceboat some sauce. 



3© The Dominion Cook Book. 

53. Salmon (Dressed. Italian Sauce)— ingredients— two 

slices, about 3 inches thick, of good salmon, 2 onions, I carrot, I 
shallot, 2 gherkins, a few preserved mushrooms and a few capers, 3 
oz. of butter, a little chopped parsley, I tablespoonful of anchovy 
sauce, and a pt. of good stock, and a little roux. 

Cut up two onions and one carrot into thin slices, and lay 
them in the bottom of a baking dish with a Uttle pepper and 
salt and one ounce of butter ; lay the shoes of salmon on the top 
of the vegetables, cover them with buttered paper, and bake for 
thirty-five minutes in a warm oven ; when cooked serve with 
sauce made as follows : Cut up one shallot very fine.and lightly 
fry in two ounces of butter, throw in a httle chopped parsley, two 
gherkins chopped fine, and a few capers and mushrooms cut 
up very fine, and one pint of good stock, a little roux to thicken, 
and one tablespoonful of anchovy sauce and a little pepper ; 
boil these ingredients together for thirty minutes, lift the salmon 
carefully on to a dish (taking care no onion or carrot hang to 
it), pour the boiling sauce over it, and serve very hot. 

54. Fresh Salmon (to Boll)— Ingredients— Fresh salmon, salt, 

water. 

This fish needs more boiling in more water than any other 
fish. It is not wholesome unless thoroughly done. Make the 
water quite salt ; boil, skim, then put in the salmon. Continue 
to skim. For each half pound allow fifteen minutes. Lobster, 
egg, or drawn butter for sauce. 

55. Whitings (Fried)— Ingredients — Whitings, egg, bread crumbs. 
Dip them in egg and bread crumbs and fry a clear golden 

brown. Serve on a napkin, with shrimp or lobster sauce in a 
tureen. 

56. Lobsters (to Boil) — Ingredients — Lobsters, salt, water, salad 

oil. 

The heaviest are best. Put them alive into a kettle of salted 
boiling water, and let them boil from half an hour to three 
quarters, according to size. Then wipe them, and rub the shell 
with a little salad oil ; this will give them a clear red color. 
Crack the large claws without mashing them, and with a sharp 
knife split the body and.^^il from end to end. 

57. Lobsters (Potted)— Ingredients — Lobsters, mace, white pepper, 

nutmeg and salt, butter. 

Half boil them, pick out the meat, cut it into small pieces, 
season with mace, white pepper, nutmeg and salt, press close 



Fish. 



31 



into a pot, and cover with butter, bake half an hour ; put the 
spawn in. When cold take the lobster out and put it into 
the pots with a Uttle of the butter. Beat the other butter in a 
mortar with some of the spawn ; then mix that colored butter 
with as much as will be sufficient to cover the pots, and strain 
it. Cayenne may be added if approved. 

58. Lobsters (Potted as at Queen's Hotel)— Ingredients- 
Lobster, mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, i or 2 cloves, butter, 
bay leaves. 

Take out the meat as whole as you can ; split the tail and re- 
move the gut ; if the inside be not watery, add that. Season 
with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and a clove or two in 
the finest powder. Lay a little fine butter at the bottom of a 
pan, and the lobster smooth over it, with bay leaves between, 
cover it with butter, and bake gently. When done, pour the 
whole on the bottom of a sieve; and with a fork lay the pieces 
into potting-pots, some of each sort, with the seasoning about 
it. When cold pour clarified butter over, but not hot. It will 
be good next day ; or if highly seasoned, and thickly covered 
with butter, will keep some time. Potted lobster may be used 
cold, or as a fricassee, with cream sauce ; and then it looks 
very nicely and eats excellently, especially if there is spawn. 

59- Lobster (to dress) — Ingedients — i lobster, salt, cayenne, mus- 
tard, salad oil, and vinegar. 

After mincing it very fine, add salt, cayenne, mustard, salad 
oil, and vinegar, to taste ; mix these well together. . 

60. Lobster Croquettes— Ingredients — 2 lobsters, pepper, salt, 
spices, cayenne, a piece of butter, i tablespoonful of flour, i bunch 
of parsiey, fish stock, 2 eggs, bread crumbs. 

Mince the flesh of a lobster to the size of small dice, season 
with pepper, salt, spices, and as much cayenne as will rest on 
the point of a trussing needle. Melt a piece of butter i-n a 
saucepan, mix with it a tablespoonful of flour, then the lobster, 
and some chopped parsley ; moisten with a little fish stock 
until the mixture looks like minced veal ; then stir into it ofl 
the fire a couple of yolks of eggs, and put it by to get cold. 
When nearly so, shape it into the form of corks, egg them, and 
roll them in baked bread crumbs. After the lapse of an hour, 
egg and bread crumb them again, taking care to preserve the 
shape. After a little time fry them a light color in hot lard. 



32 The Dominion Cook Book. 

61. Lobster Croquettes— Ingredients— lobster, pepper, salt, 

powderd mace, bread crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, egg, 
biscuit, parsley. 

To the meat of a well boiled lobster, chopped fine, add pep- 
per, salt, and powdered mace. Mix with this one quarter as 
much bread crumbs, well rubbed, as you have meat ; make 
into pointed balls, with two tablespoonfuls of butter melted. 
Roll these in beaten egg, then in biscuit powdered fine and fry 
in butter or very nice sweet lard. Serve dry and hot, and gar- 
nish with crisped parsley. This is a delicious supper dish or 
entrfe. 

62. Shad (boiled) — Ingredients — Salt, eggs, parsley. 

Procure a roe shad, cleanse thoroughly. Sprinkle shad 
and roe with salt, fold in separate cloths ; put into saucepan, 
cover with salted water, and boil from thirty to forty-five 
minutes. Serve with egg sauce. 

63. Shad (Baked) — Ingredients — Bread crumbs, milk, butter, pepper, 

salt, summer savory, egg. 

Thoroughly wash and dry the fish, make a forcemeat of 
bread crumbs steeped in milk, a little butter, pepper, salt, and 
herbs, to taste, adding a beaten egg to bind. Stuff and sew up, 
place in a pan with a glass of water, and bake about an hour. 
Make a gravy of a large spoonful of brown flour, the juice of a 
lemon, mix to the consistency of cream with water, adding sak 
to taste, remove thread from fish, place on a hot dish, garnish 
with slices of lemon, and pour the gravy over fish, or serve in a 
boat. 

64. Shad and Herring (to pot)— Ingredients— A shad, salt, 

cayenne, allspice, cloves, i stick of cinnamon, cider vinegar. 

Clean the shad, remove the head, tail, and fins, cut in pieces, 
season each piece with salt, and cayenne, place in a stone jar 
(in layers), between each layer sprinkle a little allspice, cloves and 
small pieces of cinnamon. Cover with cider vinegar ; tie thick 
paper over, and bake in moderate oven three or four hours. 

65. Oysters (Stewed)— Ingredients— Oysters, a piece of mace, 

some lemon peel, a few white peppers, cream, butter, and flour. 

Open and separate the liquor from them, then wash them 
from the grit ; strain the liquor, and put with the oysters a 
piece of mace and lemon peel, and a few white peppers. Sim- 



Fish. 



33 



mer them very gently, and put some cream, and a little flour 
and butter. Serve with sippets. 

66. Oysters (Boiled). 

Let the shells be nicely cleaned first, and serve in them, to 
eat with cold butter. 

67. Oysters (Scaljoped)— Ingredients— Crumbs of bread, pepper, 

salt, nutmeg, a piece of butter. 

Put them with crumbs of bread, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and 
a piece of butter, into scallop-shells or saucers, and bake in 
oven. 

68. Oysters (Broiled) — Ingredients — Large, fat oysters, salt, cayenne 

pepper, biscuit dust or flour, butter. 

Choose large, fat oysters ; wipe them very dry ; sprinkle 
salt and cayenne pepper upon them, and broil upon one of the 
small gridirons sold for that purpose^ You can dredge the 
oyster with biscuit dust or flour, if you wish to have it brown ; 
and some fancy the juices are better kept in this way ; others 
dislike the crust thus formed. Butter the gridiron well, and let 
your fire be hot and clear. If the oysters drip, withdraw the 
gridiron for a moment, until the smoke clears away. Broil 
quickly and dish hot, putting a tiny piece of butter, not larger 
than a pea, upon each oyster. 

69. Oysters (Fried, to garnish boiled Fish)— Ingredients- 

flour, milk, eggs, seasoning, nutmeg, bread crumbs. 

Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, season it a very 
little, dip the oysters into it, and fry them a fine yellow-brown. 
A little nutmeg should be put into the seasoning, and a few 
crumbs of bread into the flour. 

70. Oysters (Steiwed) — ingredients — Liquor from 2 qts. of oysters, 

1 teacupful of hot water, salt, pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 

I cupful of milk. 
Dram the liquor from two quarts of firm, plump oysters ; 
mix with it a small teacupful of hot water, add a little salt and 
pepper, and set over the fire in a saucepan. Let it boil up 
once, put in the oysters, let them boil for five minutes or less 
—not more. When they " ruffle," add two tablespoonfuls of 
butter. The instant it is melted and well stirred in, put in a 
large cupful of boiling miik, and take the saucepan from the 
fire. Serve with oyster or cream biscuits, as soon as possible. 

3 



34 The Dominion Cook Book. 



Oysters become tough and tasteless when cooked too much or 
left to stand too long after they are withdrawn from the fire. 

71. Oyster Sausages— Ingredients— l doz. large oysters, % lb. 

rump steak, a little seasoning of herbs, pepper and salt. 
Chop all fine, and roll them into the form of sausages. 

72. Cream Oysters on the Half-Shell— Ingredients— Hot 

water (i cup), i cup of cream, i cup of milk, a little salt, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter, white pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls of arrowroot, rice 
flour, or corn starch, cold milk. 
Pour into your inner saucepan a cup of hot water, another 
of milk, and one of cream, with a little salt. Set into a kettle 
of hot water until it boils, then stir in two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and a little salt, with white pepper. Take from the fire, 
and add two heaped tablespoonfuls of arrowroot, rice flour, or 
corn starch, moistened with cold milk. By this time your 
shells should be washed and buttered, and a fine oyster laid 
within each. Of course, it is selon lis regies to use oyster shells 
for this purpose ; but you will find scollop-shells more roomy 
and manageable, because more regular in shape. Range these 
closely in a large baking-pan, propping them with clean 
pebbles or fragments of shell, if they do not seem inclined to 
retain their contents. Stir the cream very hard, and fill up 
each shell with the mixture, taking care not to spill any in the 
pan. Bake five or six minutes in a hot oven after the shells 
become warm. Serve on the shell. Some substitute oyster 
liquor for the water in the mixture, and use all milk instead 
of cream. 

73. Oyster Patties— Ingredients— Oysters, paste. 

Make a rich paste, roll it out half an inch thick, then turn a 
teacup down on the paste, and, with the point of a sharp pen- 
knife, mark the paste lightly round the edge of the cup. Then, 
with the point of the knife, make a circle about half an inch 
from the edge ; cut this circle half way through. Place them 
on tins, and bake in a quick oven. Remove the centre, and 
fill with oysters, seasoned and warmed over the fire. ' 

74. Baked Herrings or Sprats— Ingredients— Herrings, all- 

spice, salt, black pepper, I onion and a few bay leaves, vinegar. 

Wash and drain without wiping them ; season with allspice 
in fine powder, salt, and a few whole cloves , lay them in a pan 
with plenty of black pepper, an onion, and a few bay leaves. 



Fish. 



35 



Add half vinegar and half small beer, enough to cover them. 
Put paper over the pan, and bake in a slow oven. If you like, 
throw saltpetre over them the night before, to make them look 
red. Gut, but do not open them. 

75. Perch and Tench. 

Put them into cold water, boil them carefully and serve 
with melted butter and soy. Perch is a most delicate fish. 
They may be either fried or stewed, but in stewing they do not 
preserve so good a flavor. 

76. Trout and Grayling (to Fry). 

Scale, gut, and wash well ; then dry them, and lay them 
separately on a board before the fire, after dusting some flour 
over them. Fry them of a fine color with fresh dripping; 
serve with crimp parsley, and plain butter. Perch and tench 
may be done the same way. 

77. Perch and Trout (to Boil). 

Split them down the back, notch them two or three times 
across, and broil over a clear fire ; turn them frequently, and 
baste with well-salted butter and powdered thyme. 

78. Mackerel. 

Boil, and serve with butter and fennel. 

79. Mackerel (Pickled, called Caveach)— Ingredients— 6 

mackerel, I oz. of pepper, 2 nutmegs, a little mace, 4 cloves, I 
handful of salt. 

Clean and divide them ; then cut each side into three, or 
leaving them undivided, cut each fish into five or six pieces. 
To six large mackerel, take nearly an ounce of pepper, two nut- 
megs, a little mace, four cloves, and a handful of salt, all in the 
finest powder ; mix, and making holes in each piece of fish, 
thrust the seasoning into them, rub each piece with some of it ; 
then fry them brown in oil : let them stand till cold, then put 
them into a stone-jar, and cover with vinegar ; if to keep long, 
pour oil on the top. Thus done, they may be preserved for 
months. 

80. Mackerel (Scalloped) — Ingredients — Mackerel, ^ pt. of 

shrimps, milk, corn flour, soy, walnut, mushroom catsup, essence of 
anchovies, grated lemon peel, nutmeg, cayenne, white pepper, salt, 
lemon juice, bread crumbs, capers, vinegar. 

Boil as many mackerel as you require, and, while they are 
still hot, remove from them all bones and skin and divide the 



36 The Dominion Cook Book. 

flesh into small flakes, shell half a pint of shrimps (for two mac- 
kerel), and mix them with the fish ; simmer the shells and 
mackerel trimmings for twenty minutes, with just sufficient 
water to cover them. Strain the liquid into a fresh saucepan, 
afid add to it enough new milk to make your quantity of sauce. 
Thicken this to the consistency of thick cream with corn flour, 
and flavor it delicately with essence of anchovies, soy, walnut, 
and mushroom catchup, grated lemon peel and nutmeg, 
cayenne, white pepper, and salt if required ; stir into this suf- 
ficient lemon juice to give an agreeable acid, and mix well with 
the fish. Put this mixture into china or silver scallop sheUs, or 
on a flat dish, and cover thickly with fine bread crumbs; 
moisten these slightly with liquid butter and brown in a quick 
oven or before a clear fire. Scald a few capers in their own 
vinegar, and just before serving the scallop drain and sprinkle 
them over. The remains of any cold fish may be served like 
this with great advantage ; also tinned salmon, etc. Cod, fresh 
haddock, and soles are best flavored with oysters instead of 
shrimps. 

81. Red Mullet (called the Sea-Woodcock). 

Clean, but leave the inside, fold in oiled paper, and gently 
bake in a small dish. Make a sauce of the liquor that comes 
from the fish, with a piece of butter, a little flour, and a little 
essence of anchovy. Give it a boil ; and serve in a boat, and 
the fish in the paper cases. 

82. Mullet writh Tomatoes — Ingredients— ^ doz. red mullet, 

pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, S or 6 tablespoonfuls of tomato 
sauce. 

Butter a baking dish plentifully, lay on it side by side half a 
doz. red mullet, sprinkle them with pepper, salt, and chopped 
parsley, then add about five or six tablespoonfuls of tomato 
sauce, cover the whole with a sheet of well-oiled paper, and 
bake for about half an hour. 

83. Sturgeon (Fresh)— Ingredients-Sturgeon, egg, bread crumbs, 

parsley, pepper, salt. 

Cut slices, rub egg over them, sprinkle with crumbs of 
bread, parsley, pepper, salt ; fold them in paper, and broil 
gently. Sauce : butter, anchovy, and soy. 

84. TurbOt en Mayonnaise— Ingredients— Some fillets of turbot, 

oil, tarragon vinegar, salt and pepper, eggs, cucumbers, anchovies, 
tarragon leaves, beets, capers, aspic jelly. 



Fish. 37 

Cut some fillets of cooked turbot into moderate- sized round 
or oblong pieces, carefully taking off the skin and extracting all 
bones. Place these pieces of fish into a bowl, with a dressing 
made of oil, tarragon vinegar, salt and pepper. As soon as the 
fish is well flavored with this seasoning, arrange the pieces 
round a dish like a crown. Place a circle of chopped hard 
boiled eggs, tiny pickled cucumbers, anchovies, tarragon leaves, 
beetroot, and capers round the dish, Snd then arrange a wall 
of aspic jelly round the edge of the dish. Fill up the center of 
the crown of fish with good mayonnaise sauce. 

85. Turbot (Fillet of, with Dutch Sauce) — Ingredipnts— 

2 fillets of turbot, % lb. of butter, 1 egg, a little flour, Yz pt. of 
milk, a little vinegar, some horse-radish, pepper, and salt. 

Place the fillets of turbot cut up in nice-sized pieces in a 
baking-dish, sprinkle some pepper and salt over them and about 
two ounces of butter, and bake for half an hour in a hot oven, 
cover them with a piece of buttered paper if the oven is too 
fierce ; when cooked send to table with a sauce made as follows : 
Place the milk in a stewpan with a little pepper and salt, a little 
scraped horse-radish, and a wine-glassful of vinegar, boil them 
well together, knead two ounces of butter in flour, stir it in the 
boiling milk, and well mix it in, • then add one egg, and just bring 
to the boil, stirring all the time, add more, seasoning if required, 
and serve very hot. 

86. Turbot au Gratin (a nice Dish for Luncheon)— 

Ingredients— cold cooked turbot, anchovy sauce, a little stock, cay- 
enne pepper, 2 oz. of butter, a little flour, and some bread crumbs. 

Place a piece of butter, about two ounces in a stewpan and 
melt it on the fire, add a little flour, then a little anchovy sauce, 
and a little cayenne pepper, stir these well together and then 
drop in the sauce any cold turbot you may have left from din- 
ner the evening before, place some of the turbot out of the sauce 
in large patty-pans, and cover it with bread crumbs and bake 
it in a hot oven ; jf the top does not get brown enough heat a 
salamander, and finish off that way. Serve the patty-pans up 
on a napkin or paper. 

87. Smelts (to Fry)— Ingredients — Smelts, egg, bread crumbs, lard. 
They should not be washed more than is necessary to clean 

them. Dry them in a cloth, then lightly flour them, but shake 
it off. Dip them into plenty of egg, then into bread crumbs, 



38 The Dominion Cook Book. 

grated fine, and plunge them into a good pan of boiling lard ; 
let them continue gently boiling, and a few minutes will make 
them a bright yellow-brown. Take care not to take off the 
light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty will be lost. 

88. Haddock With Tomatoes— Ingredients— i dried haddock, 

I onion, i oz. butter, i ripe tomato, pepper, parsley. 

Soak a dried haddock in plenty of cold water for half a day, 
drain off the water and replace it with boiling water ; when the 
haddock has been in this for two hours, take it out, carefully 
remove all the bones and skin, and break the meat into flakes ; 
slice a moderate sized onion, put it into a saucepan with one 
ounce of butter ; as soon as the onion is soft, add one ripe 
tomato, cut into slices ; after a couple of minutes add the flesh of 
the haddock, a sprinkling of pepper and some finely minced 
parsley ; shake the saucepan on the fire until the contents are 
thoroughly heated, then draw it aside, to be kept warm till the 
time for serving. 

89. Fish Croquettes— Ingredients— Remnants ofturbot, brill, had- 

dock, or salmon, butter, pinch of flour, some milk, pepper, salt, 
nutmeg, parsley. 

Take some remnants of boiled turbot, brill, haddock, or 
salmon, pick out the flesh carefully and mince it, not too 
finely; melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, add a small pinch of 
flour and some hot milk ; stir on the fire until the mixture 
thickens, then put in pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, 
together with some finely chopped parsley, and, lastly, the 
minced fish. As soon as the whole is quite hot, turn it out on 
a dish to get cold. When nearly so, shape it into the form of 
corks, egg them, and roll them in baked bread crumbs. After 
the lapse of an hour, egg and breadcrumb them again, taking 
care to preserve the shape. After a little time fry them a light 
color in hot lard. 

90. Halibut (Boiled)— Ingredients— Halibut, salted water. 

Allow the fish to lie in cold salted water for an hour. Wipe 
dry in a clean cloth and score the skin, then put into the fish 
kettle with cold salted water sufficient to cover it. Let it come 
slowly to the boil, and allow from half to three-quarters of an 
hour for a piece weighing four or five pounds. When ready 
drain, and serve with egg sauce. 



Fish. 39 

91. Halibut (Baked) — Ingredients— Halibut, a little butter, salt 

and water, a tablespoonfal of walnut catsup, a dessertspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce, the juice of a lemon, a little brown flour. 

A p'ece of halibut weighing five or six pounds, lay in salt and 
water for two hours. Wipe in a clean cloth and score the skin. 
Have the oven tolerably hot, and bake about an hour. Melt a 
little butter in hot water and baste the fish occasionally. It 
should be of a fine brown color. Any gravy that is in the 
dripping pan mix with a little boiling water, then stir in the 
walnut catsup and Worcestershire sauce, the juice of a lemon, 
and thicken with the brown flour (the flour should be mixed 
with a little cold water previously), give one boil and serve in 
sauce-boat. 

92. Halibut Steak — Ingredients — 2 eggs, some brittle crackers, oil 

or lard, salt. 
Wash. Wipe the steaks in a clean cloth and sprinkle with 
a little salt. Dip them into beaten egg, then into crushed 
crackers (pound the crackers until they are as fine as powder), 
and fry in boiling oil or lard. 

93. Stuffins For Pike, Haddock And Small Cod — 

Ingredients — equal parts of fat bacon and beef suet, some fresh 
butter, parsley, thyme, savory, i onion, a few leaves of marjoram, i 
or 2 anchovies, salt, pepper, i nutmeg, crumbs and egg. 

Take equal parts of fat bacon, beef suet, and fresh butter, 
some parsley, thyme, and savory; a httle onion, and a few 
leaves of scented marjoram shred fine ; an anchovy or two ; a 
little salt or nutmeg, and some pepper. Oysters will be an 
improvement with or without anchovies ; add crumbs, and an 
egg to bind. 



h 



POULTRY AND GAME 



OBSERVATIONS. 



In choosing ducks be careful to secure those with plump 
bellies and thick and yellowish feet, and to insure them being 
tender it is advisable to let thefn hang a day or two. 

In choosing turkeys, the hen is preferable for boiling on 
account of its whiteness and tenderness. 

Rabbits, when young, have smooth and sharp claws. 

In selecting a goose choose one with a clean, white skin, 
plump breast and yellow feet. 

To choose venison the meat should be fat, clear and bright, 
the more fat the better the meat. 

A young fowl has large soft feet and neck. 




TO CARVE FOWL. 

Fix the fork firmly in the breast, let the knife be sharply 
run along the line from i to 2, then downwards to 3, and the 
wing can be easily removed. Now place 
the fork inside the leg and gently force from 
the body, the joint can be readily seen so as 
cut through. Now draw the knife through 
the flesh in the direction of 4 to 5, slip knife 
beneath the merry-thought gently lifting and 
pressing backwards and it will come off at once. Now for collar 
or neck bones. These are on each side of the merry-thought, 
they must be raised by the knife at the broad end and turned 
from the body towards the "breastbone until the short piece of 
bone breaks off. 

The breast, with the ribs, is now left, the former can be 
easily disengaged from the ribs by cutting through the latter. 

40 




Poultry and Game. 41 

The side bones must now be removed. Turn the lower 
end of the back from the carver, press the point of the knife 
through the top of backbone, near centre, and down towards 
the end of the back, completely through the bone. The back- 
bone being now uppermost, press the fork down on it and at the 
same time, with the knife, raise up the small end of fowl towards 
the fork and the back will be dislocated in the middle. 

TO CARVE TURKEY. 

In carving turkey, as in duck and goose, commence cutting 
slices close to the wing from 2 to 3, proceeding upwards to the 
ridge of the breast bone. The breast 
Seing the only part called Jzne in a turkey, 
the legs are seldom cut off at table but 
appear in a form attractive to bachelors, 
we mean devilled. 

Boiled turkey is carved in the same manner. 

TO CARVE GOOSE. 

Neatly cut slices, not too thick, should be carved from the 
breast along line 2 to 3. When the first slice is cut, a hole 
should be cut in the apron, passing it 
round the line marked, here the 
stuffing will be found. A good 
carver will cut a large number of 
fine slices off the breast, especially if 
he commences close down by the 

wing, carving towards the ridge of the breastbone. Now take 
off the wings in the same way as in carving fowl. 

It may be necessary in taking off the leg to turn the goose 
on its side, then pressing down the small end of leg pass the 
knife under it from the top down to the joint, turn the leg back 
with the fork, and with the knife cut through the joint, remov- 
ing the thigh bone from its socket, disengage the merry-thought 
and all other parts the same way as in fowl. 




94. To Prepare and truss a fowl for roasting. 

Singe off all small feathers left on the bird, with a lighted 
paper, moving it quickly so as not to scorch it. It is an error 
to depend on this singeing to take away the feathers carelessly 



42 The Dominion Cook Book. 

left in plucking. If any appear pull them out ; if singed out 
an odor of burnt feathers will cling 'to the bird. Now com- 
mence to draw. Place the bird back downwards upon the 
table, cut a small slit in the skin of the neck, draw the neck 
towards you, cutting it off at the root. Then make a small 
sht in the tail-end of the bird, and with the middle finger loosen 
the entrails, doing this carefully, that you may afterwards have 
less trouble in drawing. Cut off vent and draw. Be careful 
not to break the gall bladder, for by so doing the bird will be 
ruined. With a clean cloth wipe out the inside, also the flap 
of skin at the neck, and should you accidently break any part, 
it is only safe to wash the inside, drying it thoroughly with a 
clean cloth. Dip the legs in boiling water, scrape them and 
cut off claws ; also the tips of pinions. It is now ready for 
trussing. Skewer the pinions by inserting the skewer through 
the first joint of the one on the right side (the middle of the leg 
being brought near to it), then through the body and through 
the pinion on the left. Fasten the skin over the neck, placing 
it over the back with a skewer. Now put a long skewer 
through the skin of the back, on the left side ; then through 
the first joint of the leg and on through the leg on right side. 
Clean and wash gizzard, put it on one of the pinions and 
the liver on the other. The bird is now ready. 

95. Fovtfl (Roast) — Ingredients — Butter, flovyr, gravy, lemon juice, 

sausages, bacon. 

Fowls require constant attention in dredging and basting, 
and the last ten minutes let butter rolled in flour be stuck over 
them in httle bits, and allowed to melt without basting. The 
gravy for fowls should always be thickened, and slightly flavored 
with lemon-juice. Sausages or rolled bacon should be served 
on the same dish, and white mashed potatoes should always 
be handed with poultry. 

96. To Truss a Fowl for Boiling 

Loosen the skin of the legs carefully, so as not to break it. 
The legs may be cut off at the knee joint, or trussed with the 
feet underneath. Skewer the pinions and legs firmly to the 
side of the bird ; the liver and gizzard are omitted, when the 
fowl is boiled. 

97. Fowl (to Boil). 

For boiUng, choose those that are not black-legged. Pick 



Poultry and Game. 43 

them nicely, singe, wash and truss them. Flour them, and put 
them into hot water. Simmer for three quarters of an hour. 
Serve with parsley and butter; oyster, lemon, liver, celery sauce. 

98. Chicken Cutlets (with Rice)— Ingredients— A teacupful 

of rice, some good stock, i onion, salt and pepper, some cold ham 
and chicken, egg, bread crumbs. 

Boil a teacupful of rice in some good stock, and pound it 
in a mortar with an onion that has been cooked in butter, with 
salt and pepper. Pound separately in equal portions cold ham 
and chicken, form this into cutlets ; cover them with egg and 
bread crumbs and fry. Serve with a sharp sauce. 

99. Chicicen a la, Jardiniere— Ingredients — 2 young chickens, 

butter, I onion, some savory herbs, salt and sufficient water, carrots, 
turnips, onions, beef stock, mushrooms, 2 cabbages, some heads of 
asparagus, pepper, sugar. 

Take two young chickens and put them in a saucepan with 
some butter, a large onion chopped up, some savory herbs, 
some salt and sufficient water ; the chickens should be dropped 
in the mixture when it is boiling, and left in the saucepan until 
the liquid is reduced by half; cut up in good shapes some car- 
rots and turnips, some whole onions skinned and blanched, 
and put them in a saucepan with some butter, some beef stock, 
some mushrooms, two very young cabbages and some heads of 
asparagus ; season with salt, pepper, and a little sugar ; cook 
very gently, and fifteen minutes before serving add a piece 
of butter kneaded with flour. Serve with the vegetables well 
arranged round the dish. 

100. Chicken Leaf— Ingredients — A chicken, 2 oz. of butter, pepper, 

salt, egg. 
Boil a chicken in as little water as possible until the meat 
can easily be picked from the bones ; cut it up finely, then 
put it back into the saucepan with two ounces of butter, and 
a seasoning of pepper and salt. Grease a square china mould 
and cover the bottom with slices of hard boiled egg ; pour in 
the chicken, place a weight on it, and set aside to cool, when 
it will turn out. 
100. Cl^icken Rissoles— Ingredients— Some remnants of fowl, ham 

and tongue, butter, a pinch of flour, white pepper, salt, nutmeg, 

parsley, eggs, a few drops of lemon juice, flour, water, 3 pinches of 

sugar. 
Mince very finely some remnants of fowls, free from skin, 



44 The Dominion Cook Book. 

add an equal quantity of ham or tongue, as well as a small 
quantity of truffles, all finely minced; toss the whole in a 
saucepan with a piece of butter, mixed with a pinch of flour ; 
add white pepper, salt, and nutmeg to taste, as well as a little 
minced parsley ; stir in oif the fire the yolks of one or two eggs 
beaten up with a few drops of lemon juice, and lay the mixture 
on a plate to cool. Make a paste with some flour, a little 
water, two eggs, a pinch of salt, and two or three of sugar ; roll 
it out to the thickness of a penny piece, stamp it out in round 
pieces three inches in diameter; put a piece of the above 
mince on each, then fold them up, fastening the edges by 
moistening them with water. Trim the rissoles neatly with a 
fluted cutter, dip each one in beaten-up egg, and fry a golden 
color in hot lard. 

102. Chicken (Jellied)— Ingredients— A chicken, i oz. of butter, 

pepper and salt, }4 packet of gelatine. 

Boil the chicken as recipe in 97 until the water is reduced to 
a pint ; pick, the meat from the bones in fair sized pieces, 
removing all gristle, skin, and bone. Skim the fat from the 
liquor, add an ounce of butter, a little pepper and salt, and half a 
packet of gelatine. Put the cut-up chicken into a mould, pre- 
viously wetted with cold water ; when the gelatine has dissolved 
pour the liquor hot over the chicken. Turn out when cold. 

103. Braized Fowl (With Macaroni)— Ingredients— A pair of 

fowls, 2 onions, butter, 2 slices of bacon, 2 carrots, pepper, salt, a 
bundle of sweet herbs, stock, i lb. of ribbon macaroni, 15c. bottle 
of French tomato sauce, i oz. of butter, Parmesan cheese. 

Trim a pair of fowls as for boiling, putting a piece of butter 
and an onion inside each ; lay in saucepan over two slices of 
bacon with an onion and two carrots cut in pieces ; add pepper 
and salt to taste, and a bundle of sweet herbs ; moisten with a 
little stock, put a piece of buttered paper over the fowls, and 
set to braize very slowly for an hour, frequently basting with 
their own liquor. Throw one pound of ribbon macaroni into 
fast boiling salt water ; when done (twenty minutes) drain off" 
the water, put them into a saucepan with the contents of a 
fifteen cent bottle of French tomato sauce, and one ounce of 
butter previously melted ; toss on the fire a few minutes, adding 
plenty of Parmesan cheese. Place the chickens on a dish with 
the macaroni round them and serve. 



Poultry and Game. 45 

104. Broiled Chicken With iVIushrooms)— Ingredients— 

I fowl, liver, gizzard, butter, pepper and salt, stewed mushrooms. 

Cut some fowls down the back, truss legs and wings as for 
boiling, with the gizzard and liver under the wing ; baste them 
well with butter, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and broil them 
slowly over a clear fire, turning frequently, and basting well till 
cooked ; serve with stewed mushrooms. 

105. Puree of Game — Ingredients — Carcases of roast game, yi an 

onion, i carrot, i bay leaf, a small piece of celery, 2 cloves, a little 
piece of mace, some whole pepper, pinch of salt, stock, ^ lb. lean 
beef. 

Take any carcases of roast game, say three snipe or two 
partridges, cut them up into convenient pieces, and pack 
them into a saucepan with half an onion, a carrot and bay leaf, 
a small piece of celery, a couple of cloves, a little piece of 
mace, some whole pepper and a large pinch of salt ; pour in 
just enough stock to cover the contents ; let the whole boil a 
couple of hours, strain the liquor and put it by ; take half a 
pound of lean beef, chop it up and pound it in a mortar with 
all the flesh that can be picked out of the pieces of game, then 
pass the whole through a sieve, moistening now and then with 
some of the hquor. Lastly, heat the pur^e, correct the flavoring 
if necessary, stir in a piece of fresh butter the size of a wal- 
nut, serve with fresh sippets round and poached eggs on the 
top. 

106. Wild Duck (Roast)— Ingredients — Duck, bread crumbs, carrot, 

pepper and salt, sage and onions, currant jelly, i pinch of cayenne, 

browned flour. 
Before roasting, parboil with a small carrot peeled and put 
inside. This will absorb the fishy taste. If you have no 
carrot at hand, an onion will have the same effect, but unless 
you mean to use onion in the stuffing a carrot is preferable. 
When parboiled throw away the carrot or onion, lay in fresh 
water for half an hour, stuff with bread crumbs seasoned with 
pepper, salt, sage, and an onion, and roast till brown and 
tender, basting half the time with butter and water, then with 
drippings. Add to the gravy when you ha-ve taken up the 
ducks, one tablespoonful of currant jelly and a pinch of cay- 
enne. Thicken with browned flour and serve in a tureen. 

107. Quail Pie— Ingredients— Puff jjaste, salt pork or ham, 6 eggs, but- 

ter, pepper, i bunch of parsley, juice of i lemon. 



46 The Dominion Cook Book. 

Clean and dress the birds, loosen the joints, but do not 
divide them, put on the stove to simmer while you prepare puff 
paste. Cover a deep dish with it, then lay in the bottom some 
shreds of pork or ham, then a layer of hard boiled eggs, a little 
butter and pepper. Take the birds from the fire, sprinkle with 
pepper and minced parsley. Squeeze lemon juice upon them, 
and upon the breasts of the birds a few pieces of butter rolled 
in flour. Cover with slices of egg, then shred some ham and 
lay upon this. Pour in a little of the gravy in which the quails 
were parboiled, and put on the lid. Leave a hole in the 
middle and bake a little over one hour. 

108. Quails (Roastine With Ham). 

Prepare the birds as you would grouse, but cover the ham or 
pork with a sheet of paper, having secured the meat with pack 
thread. Stitch the papers on, and keep well basted with butter 
and water. Roast three quarters of an hour. Remove papers 
from meat before dishing, and brown quickly. This is a favorite 
way of cooking quails. 

109. Rabbit Pie — Ingredients— 2 rabbits, % lb. of fat pork, 4 eggs, 

pepper, butter, a little powdered mace, a few drops of lemon juice, 
puff paste. 

Cut a pair of rabbits into ten pieces, soak in salt and water 
half an hour and simmer, until half done, in enough water 
to cover them. Cut a quarter of a pound of pork into slices, 
and boil four eggs hard. Lay some pieces of pork in 
the bottom of the dish, the next a layer of rabbit. Upon this 
spread slices of boiled egg and pepper and btDter. Sprinkle, 
moreover, with a little powdered mace, a few drops of lemon 
juice upon each piece of meat. Proceed in this manner until 
the dish is full, the top layer being pork. Pour in water in 
which the rabbit was boiled ; when you have salted it and 
added a few lumps of butter rolled in flour, cover with puff 
paste, make a hole in the middle and bake for one hour. 
Cover with paper if it should bake too fast. 

no. Rabbit (Stewfed)— Ingredients— I rabbit, sallied water, dripping 
or butter, flour, 6 onions, }i pt. water. 

Cut a rabbit in pieces, wash it in cold water, a little salted. 
Prepare in a stewpan some flour, and clarified dripping or 
butter ; stir it until it browns. Then put in the pieces of 
rabbit and keep stirring and turning, until they are tinged with 



Poultry and Game. 



47 



a little color ; then add six onions, peeled, but not cut up, and 
half a pint of water. Serve all together in a deep dish. 

111. A German Dish— Ingredients— A tender fowl, salt, pepper, 

mace, flour, yolk of i egg, hot lard, liver, gizzard, parsley. 

Quarter a tender fowl, season the pieces with pepper and 
sajt and mace ; flour, and then dip them in the beaten up yolk 
of an egg ; fry a golden color in hot lard ; dish them, garnished 
with the liver and gizzard fried separately, and with fried pars- 
ley. Serve either with a salad garnished with hard-boiled eggs 
or tomato sauce. 

112. Giblets (to Stew) — Ingredients — Salt and pepper, butter, I cup 

of cream, i teaspoonful of flour. 

Do them as directed for giblet-pie (under the head pies) ; 
season them with salt and pepper, and a very small piece of 
mace. Before serving give them one boil with a cup of cream, 
and a piece of butter rubbed in a teaspoonful of flour. 

113. Pigeons. 

May be dressed in so many ways, that they are very useful. 
The good flavor of them depends very much on their being 
cropped and drawn as soon as killed. No other bird requires 
so much washing. Pigeons left from dinner the day before 
may be stewed or made into a pie ; in either case care must be 
taken not to overdo them, which will make them stringy. 
They need only be heated up in gravy, made ready, and force- 
meat balls may be fried and added, instead of putting a stuffing 
into them. If for a pie, let beef-steaks be stewed in a little 
water, and put cold under them, and cover each pigeon with a 
piece of fat bacon, to keep them moist. Season as usual. 

114. Pigeons (to Boil). 

After cleaning, split the backs, pepper and salt them, and 
broil them nicely ; pour over them either stewed or pickled 
mushrooms in melted butter, and serve as hot as possible. 

115. Pigeons Roast. 

Should be stuffed with parsley, either cut or whole ; and 
seasoned within. Serve with parsley and butter. Peas or 
asparagus should be dressed to eat with them. 

116. To Prepare and Truss Turkey for Roasting. 

Prepare the bind in the same manner as fowl, and commence 
to draw the sinews. Break the leg bones close to the feet, 



48 The Dominion Cook Book. 

hang the bird on a hook in the wall, the hook passing through 
the break you have just made. (It is best to have the hook 
above you). Now, with all your strength, draw the sinews. 
This is a necessity, or the legs will be uneatable. This done, 
chop off the legs, cut off the neck near the back, just leaving 
enough skin to turn over it. Remove the crop, loosen livgr, 
etc., at the neck end. Now cut off vent, remove gut and care- 
fully draw. Wash and dry with a clean cloth, cut the breast- 
bone through at both sides, close to the back, and flatten it 
with the rolling pin. Firmly skewer the pinion at right side 
through the bird until you reach the other. Press the legs 
close to the body, skewering at first and second joints. Pro- 
ceed to stuff, skewer over flap of skin, also that at neck. It is 
now ready for cooking. 

117. Turkey (Roast). 

Having prepared the bird for dressing, stuff with plain 
forcemeat, pack it up in thin slices of fat bacon, and over 
this a sheet of buttered paper, put in oven, basting frequently 
with butter. A quarter of an hour before it is done remove 
paper and bacon. Sprinkle with a little fine salt just before 
serving. Garnish with pork sausages and serve with a tureen 
of gravy. Time for roasting, from two to three hours, accord- 
ing to size. 

118. Forcemeat for Turkey. 

Take one part of finely shred suet, and two paits of 
bread crumbs, season with pepper, salt and powdered spices, 
sweet herbs, and finely minced parsley ; mix all well together, 
then add as many eggs as will bind the mixture into a stiff 
paste. 

119. Gravy for Turkey. 

Mince an onion finely, fry it in butter to a dark brown, add 
three-quarters of a pint of good stock, pepper and salt to taste, 
a small piece of finely minced ham, a sprig of thyme, and 
parsley, and a little Worcester sauce. Let the whole boil five 
or ten minutes, stand on one side till needed, then strain into 
sauceboat. 

120. Chestnut Sauce for Roast Turkey. 

Remove the outer skin from a number of chestnuts, care- 
fully excluding any that may be the least tainted. Put them to 



Game. 49 

boil in salted water with a handful of coriander seeds and a 
couple of bay leaves. When thoroughly done, remove the outer 
skin and pound the chestnuts in a mortar, adding a little stock 
(free from fat) now and then. When a smooth paste is 
obtained, fry an onion in butter to a light color, add the chest- 
nut paste and sufficient stock to get the sauce of the desired 
consistency, pepper and salt to taste ; pass through a hair sieve 
and serve. 

121. Turkey (Boiled). 

Cover the turkey with hot water and allow it to come slowly 
to a boil, then remove all scum ; by attending to this there is 
no need to boil the bird in a cloth. Allow to simmer one and 
a half hours, or a little longer. Serve with celery, oyster or 
mushroom sauce. 

122. Turkey (Pulled). 

Divide the meat of the breast by pulling instead of cut- 
ting ; then warm it in a spoonful or too of white gravy, and a 
little cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a little flour and butter ; 
don't boil it. The leg should be seasoned, scored and broiled, 
and put into a dish with the above round it. Cold chicken 
does as well. 

123. Roast Haunch of Venison — Ingredients— Butter, salt, flour 

and water. 
Trim the joint neatly, wipe it well with a cloth, rub it over 
with butter, and sprinkle it with salt ; then wrap it up in a 
sheet of buttered kitchen paper. Make a paste with flour and 
water, roll it out to the thickness of about half an inch, wrap 
the joint in this, and close up all the openings carefully by 
wetting the edges of the sheet of paste ; lastly, pack up the 
haunch into a sheet of well buttered paper, put in the oven for 
about three hours, basting occasionally, then remove the paste 
and paper coverings, baste the haunch plentifully with butter, 
and when nearly done dredge some flour over it and some salt. 
Serve on a hot water dish. 

124. Hashed Venison— Ingredients— The remains of roast venison, 

its own gravy, thickening of butter and flour. 
Cut the meat from the bones in small slices, and, if there is 
sufficient of its own gravy left, put the meat into this, as it is 
preferable to any other. Should there not be enough, put the 
4 



50 Thk Dominion Cook Book. 



bones and trimmings into a stewpan, with about a pint of good 
gravy ; let them stew gently for an hour, and strain the gravy. 
Put a little flour and butter into the stewpan, stirring until 
brown, then add the strained gravy, and give it a boil up ; skim 
and strain again, and, when a little cool, put in the slices of 
venison. Place the stewpan by the side of the fire, and, when 
on the point of simmering, serve ; do not allow it to boil, or 
the meat will be hard. Send red-currant jelly to table with it. 

125. To Truss a Goose. 

Cut off the feet at join^, the pinions at first joint, and the 
neck close to the back, leaving enough skin to turn over it. 
Loosen the liver, etc. at neck end. Cut bird open a little 
above the vent, draw, wash, and dry the inside, and beat the 
breast bone down with a rolling-pin. Put a skewer through the 
under part of one pinion, and on through the other. Secure 
the legs by passing the skewer through the first joint and on 
through body to reach other. 

126. Roast Goose — Ingredients — Goose, 4 onions, 10 sage leaves, )^ 

lb. bread crumbs, 2 oz. butter, salt and pepper to taste, i egg. 

After drawing carefully, wash and wipe. Make'a stuffing of 
above ingredients, put into the body of the goose, and secure 
it firmly at both ends. Put it into a moderate oven, keeping it 
well basted. Make a gravy of the giblets and send to table 
with cranberry or apple sauce. 

127. Hashed Game (Cold Meat Cookery)- Ingredients— 

The remains of cold roast goose, 2 onions, 2 oz. of butter, i pt. of 
boiling water, i dessertspoonful of flour, pepper and salt to taste, 
2 tablespoonfuls of mushroom catchup. 

Cut up the goose into pieces of the size required ; the infe- 
rior joints and trimmings put into a stewpan to make the gravy ; 
slice and fry the onions in the butter of a very pale brown ; 
add these to the trimmings, and pour over about a pint of boil- 
ing water ; stew these gently for three-quarters of an hour, then 
skim and strain the liquor. Thicken it with flour, and flavor 
with catchup, in the above proportion; add a seasoning of 
pepper and salt, and put in the pieces of goose ; let these get 
thoroughly hot through, but do not allow them to boil, and 
serve with toasted bread. Time, altogether rather more than 
one hour. 



OBSERVATIONS ON MEAT. 

In purchasing beef secure meat of a deep red color, with 
the fat mingled with the lean, giving it a mottled appearance. 
The fat will be firm and the color resembling grass butter. 
The smaller the breed, so much sweeter the meat. It will be 
better for eating if kept a few days. Veal, lamb and pork 
(being white meat), will not keep more than a day or two. 

Beef — For roasting, the sirloin and rib pieces are the 
best. The chief object is to prevent the escape of the 
juices ; it is a very good plan to throw a cup of hoiling water 
over the meat when first put in the oven. This will prevent 
the escape of the juices for a while, and will thoroughly 
warm through the meat. 

Mutton — Choose this by the fineness of its grain, 
good color, and firm white fat. It is not the better for 
being young ; if of a good breed and well fed, it is better for 
age ; but this only holds with wether-mutton ; the flesh of the 
ewe is paler, and the texture finer. Ram-mutton is very strongly 
flavored j the flesh is of a deep red, and the fat is spongy. 

Lamb — Observe the neck of a fore-quarter; if the vein 
is bluish it is fresh ; if it has a green or yellow caste it is stale. 
In the hind-quarter, if there is a faint smell under the kidney, 
and the knuckle is limp, the meat is stale. If the eyes are 
sunken the head is not fresh. Grass-lamb comes in season in 
April or May, a* continues till August. House-lamb may be 
had in great towns almost all the year, but is in highest perfec- 
tion in December and January. 

Pork— Pinch the lean and if young it will break. If the 
rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be impressed by the 
finger, it is old. A thin rind is a merit in all pork. When 
fresh, the flesh will be smooth and cool ; if clammy it is tainted. 

SI 



52 



The Dominion Cook Book. 



What is called measley pork is very unwholesome, and may be 
known by the fat being full of kernels, which in good pork is 
never the case. Pork fed at still-houses does not answer for 
curing any way, the fat being spongy. Dairy-fed pork is the 
best. A sucking pig, to be eaten in" perfection, should not be 
more than three weeks old, and should be dressed the same 
day it is killed. 

Veal — Veal should be perfectly white; if purchasing 
the loin, the fat enveloping the kidney should be white and 
firm. Veal will not keep so long as an older meat, especially 
in hot or wet weather. Choose small and fat veal. It is in 
season from March to August. 

Tripe — This requires to be well cooked and nicely 
served, and then it is both light and nutritious, and can often 
be eaten by invalids, or persons having a delicate digestion. 
Choose a nice white piece ; wash it well, and put into a stew- 
pan with sufficient milk and water in equal parts to cover it ; 
let it simmer gently for about half an hour after it has boiled 
up. Serve with white sauce, omitting the parsley, and garnish 
the dish with slices of beet-root. Onion sauce may be sub- 
stituted if preferred, or it may be served with a little of the 
liquor in which it has been cooked poured over it, and some 
plainly boiled Spanish onions handed round in a vegetable 
dish. 

CARVING BEEF. 

I2S. Brisket of Beef. 

Cut neatly, across lines as shown 
here 

129. Ribs. 

The manner of carving is as follows : 
cut in direction of dotted line from i 
to 2. 

130. Sirloin. 

The upper part of this joint should 
be cut along line from 5 to 6. Should 
you prefer it you may cut across from 3 
to 4, but we do not advise this plan. 
The joint may be raised and slices cut . 
from the under sidealonglinefrom i to 2. 




Meats. 

131. Aitchbone. -,, 

Follow with knife, line from i to 2. 



^l 




BEEF. 

132. Spiced Beef— Ingredients— 8 or 9 lbs. of beef, fat, % oi. of sal 

prunella, ^ oz. of saltpetre, 2 oz. of pounded spices, % lb. garlic, 
^ lb. of moist sugar. 

Take eight or nine pounds of beef, with a good piece of fat, 
mix well together a quarter ounce of sal prunella, three quarters of 
an ounce saltpetre, about two ounces pounded spices — mace, 
cinnamon, cloves, allspice, nutmeg half pound garlic chopped 
very fine, and a quarter pound of moist sugar ; rub this mixture 
well into the beef, andlet it remain in the pickle a week, turning 
and rubbing it every day ; tie up the beef, put it into cold water, 
boil it up slowly, skim well, and simmer for two or three hours ; 
put it under heavy weights. Trim and serve cold, 

133. Beef-Steak Pudding— Ingredients— ^ lb. of flour, 6 02. of 

beef suet, 2^ lbs. of rump or beef steak, pepper and salt, I doz. 
oysters, % pt. of stock. 

Chop the suet finely, and rub into the flour with your hands, 
sprinkling a little salt, then mix with water to a smooth paste ; 
roll the paste to the eighth of an inch j line a quart pudding 
basin with the paste ; cut the steak into thin slices, flour them, 
and season with pepper and salt ; put the oysters and the liquor 
that is with them into a saucepan and bri^g it to the point of 
boiling; then remove from the fire, and strain the liquor into a 
basin ; then cut off the beards and the hard parts, leaving only 
the soft, roll the slices of steak, filling the basin with meat and 
oysters ; pour in the stock and liquor from the oysters. Cover 
with paste and boil three hours. 

N.B. — Be sure the water is boiling before putting the pud- 
ding in. 

134. Fillets of Beef (with Olives)— Ingredients— A piece of rump 

steak, pepper, salt, olives, onions, flour, stock, sauce. 

Take a piece of rump steak, cut it into slices three-eighths 
of an inch thick, and trim them into shape. Melt plenty of 
butter in a baking-tin, lay the fillets of beef in this, and let them 
stand in a warm place for an hour or so ; then sprinkle them 
with pepper and salt, and fry them in some very hot butter. 



54 The Dominion Cook Book. 



turning them to let both sides take color. Stone a quantity of 
olives, and parboil them. Fry some onions a brown color in 
butter, ^dd a little flour, and, when that is colored, as much 
stock as you want sauce, pepper, salt, and spices to taste. Let 
the sauce boil, then strain it, add the olives, and serve when 
quite hot, with the fillets in a circle round them. 

135. Grenadinsof Beef— Ingredients— Rump steak, lard, bacon fat, 

rich stock or gravy, onions, turnips, butter, flour, milk, pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg;. 

Cut some rump steak in slices a little more than half an inch 
thick, trim them all to the same size in the shape of cutlets, and 
lard them thickly on one side with fine lardoons of bacon fat. 
Lay them out, the larded size uppermost, into a flat pan, and 
put into it as much highly-flavored rich stock or gravy as will 
come up to the grenadins without covering them. Cover the 
pan, and place it in the oven to braise gently for an hour. 
Then remove the cover, baste the grenadins with the gravy, and 
let them remain uncovered in the oven till the larding has taken 
color ; they are then ready. Take equal quantities of carrots and 
turnips, cut into the shape of olives. Boil all these vegetables 
in salted water, then melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, add 
a tablespoonful of flour, stir in sufficient milk to make a sauce, 
add pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Put all the vege- 
tables into this sauce, of which there should be just enough to 
hold them together ; toss them gently in it until quite hot. 
Dress them in the middle of a dish, round them dispose the 
grenadins in a circle, and, having removed the superfluous fat 
from their gravy, put this round the grenadins, and serve. 

136. Beefsteak Pie — Ingredients — Forcemeat, 2 oz. of fat bacon, 2 

oz. of bread-crumbs, parsley, thyme, a small onion, mushrooms, 
seasoning for forcemeat, salt, pepper and nutmeg, 2 eggs, a. tender 
rumpsteak, shallot, gravy. 

Make some forcemeat with two ounces of fat bacon, two ounces 
of bread-crumbs, a little chopped parsley, thyme, a small onion, 
and some mushrooms; add seasoning of salt, pepper and nutmeg, 
pound in mortar, moistening with the yolks of two eggs. Take 
a tender rump steak or the under cut of a sirloin of beef, cut it 
in thin slices, season with salt, pepper, and a little shallot. 
Roll each slice like a sausage with some forcemeat inside, 
border a pie dish, put in the beef and forcemeat, fill it up with 
good gravy, flavored with Harvey sauce. Cover with pufi" paste ; 



Meats. 55 

bake in a moderate oven. Make a hole in the top, and add 
some reduced gravy. 

137. Fillets of Beef (a la Chateaubriand)— Ingredients— 

A piece of sirloin of beef, pepper, salt, oil. 

Take a piece of the undercut of the sirloin of beef, trim off 
the fat neatly, and the skin next to it ; cut it across the grain 
into slices one and one half inches thick, sprinkle them with 
pepper, dip them in oil, and broil over a clear fire, sprinkle 
with salt, and serve very hot in a dish garnished with potatoes 
sautks au beurre. 

138. Roast Sirloin — Ingredients — Beef, flour, salt and cup of water. 
After the meat has been in the oven one hour, remove 

dripping, dredge a little flour, sprinkle a little salt, and pour a 
cupful of water over it, place back in oven and cook for about 
another hour. Serve with horse radish, 

139. Roast Beef and brown gravy— Ingredients— Beef.pepper, 

salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, onion, bay leaf. 

It is not everyone who, in preparing roast beef, manages to 
have the gravy quite right. It is either fat, thick, or too pale. 
Table Talk gives the following directions : First of all, the 
meat must be properly roasted or rather baked. Wipe the fat 
side with a damp cloth, put it in the pan, dust with pepper, 
put a teaspoonful of salt in the corner of the pan, add a half 
cup of hot water, and put it at once into a very hot oven. 
Bake fifteen minutes to every pound, have the oven very hot 
for the first half hour, and slightly cooler towards the last. Do 
not add any more water, but baste the meat every ten minutes- 
with the fat that melts from the meat and falls to the bottom 
of the pan. When the meat is done remove it from the pan ; 
pour off all the fat but about two tablespoonfuls, being very 
careful to retain all the osmazone, the brown substance in the 
bottom of the pan. Add to the pan two rounding tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, stir over the fire until the flour is a dark brown 
without scorching. Add quickly, all at once, one and a half 
cups (three gills) of warm water, stir continually until boiling, 
taste to see if salt enough ; if not, season, add a sUce of onion, 
a bay leaf, and simmer gently two minutes. Strain through a 
gravy strainer and serve. If the directions are carefully followed, 
the gravy will be a nut brown, and entirely free from grease. 



S6 The Dominion Cook Book. 

140. Boiled Becv. 

Just wash off salt, place in saucepan of boiling water, as 
soon as it begins to boil skim, now draw to back of stove and 
let it simmer gently until done. Time allowed, one hour after it 
boils for each four pounds of meat. 

141. Beef (Cold Meat Cookery)— Ingredients— About 2 lbs. of 

cold roast beef, I large onion, I large carrot, 1 turnip, I bunch of 
savory herbs, salt and pepper to taste, yi pint of gravy, a crust of 
mashed potatoes. 

Cut the beef into slices allowing a little fat, put a layer of 
this at bottom of pie dish, slice vegetables and sprinkle a layer 
of them upon the meat ; pound the herbs, strew a little over 
the meat with pepper and salt and proceed in this manner, 
until the ingredients are used \ pour in gravy ; cover with crust 
of mashed potatoes. 

Note. — Parboil vegetables before adding them to meat, 
and the liquor in which they are bQi|Urs:an be used in the 
place of gravy if there is none at han^ 

142. Bubble and Squeak (Cold Meat Cookery)— Ingre- 

dients — A few thin slices of cold boiled beef, a little butter, small 
cabbage, I sliced onion, pepper and salt to taste. 

Fry the beef gently in the butter, place them on a flat dish, 
and cover with fried greens. Savoys can be used. Boil until 
tender, press in cullender, mince and then put in frying pan 
with butter and sliced onion and a little salt and pepper. 

143. Beef Collops— Ingredients— 2^ lbs. of rump steak, % lb. of 

butter, I pint of gravy or water, salt and pepper, shallot minced 
finely, i pickled walnut, a teaspoonful of capers. 

Cut thin slices of steak and divide into pieces about two 
inches long and dredge with flour ; put butter into frying pan 
and when quite hot add the meat and pour upon them the 
gravy or water ; allow them to fry for three minutes, add a little 
more butter, put in seasoning and other ingredients and allow 
the whole to simmer for ten minutes. Serve on hot dish. 

144. Beef Sausages — Ingredients — To every lb. of suet allow 2 lbs. 

of lean beef, seasoning to taste, a little mixed spice. 

Chop the suet finely, taking care that there is no skin with 
it, add pepper, salt and spices ; mix well together, form into 
flat cakes and fry brown. 



Meats. 57 

I4S- Roast Bullock's Heart— Ingredients— l bullock's heart, }( 
lb. suet, 6 oz. of bread crumbs, % pint of milk, i tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, i desertspoonful of chopped mixed herbs, ^ lb. of 
dripping or butter, I pint of gravy or beef-tea. For the sauce — i 
small onion, a dessertspoonful of flour, salt and pepper, butter the 
size of an egg, a large spoonful of mushroom catchup. 

Wash the heart in salt water, taking care to remove all the 
blood ; wash in a second water and dry with a clean cloth j be 
careful to dry it thoroughly ; chop the suet as finely as possible, 
mix with some bread crumbs the suet, parsley, herbs, salt and 
pepper; lastly put in the milk, then proceed to fill all the 
cavities of the heart with the stuffing; take a piece of paper, 
grease it well with butter or dripping, place this over the cavi- 
ties and tie it on tightly with string ; put one ounce of dripping 
into the pan, and baste the heart occasionally ; when the gravy 
boils cut up the onion, sprinkling with pepper and salt, and 
add to the gravy ; allow it to stew gently until about five 
minutes before the J^rt is done ; skim occasionally ; when ' 
done strain the liqS^^nto another saucepan put the butter, 
and allow it to melt a minute or two ; then add the flour and 
mix smoothly together ; then pour in slowly the liquor, stirring 
until it boils and thickens. Then dish up, remove paper, and 
add to the sauce the mushroom catchup. Immediately pour 
this sauce round the heart and serve. 

146. A Polish Dish — Ingredients — About 2 lbs. of rump steak cut 

thickly, some bread crumbs, butter and salt, I onion. 

Chop the onion as finely as possible ; make deep incisions 
in the beef, take care not tor go through; fill the incisions 
with the bread, etc. ; roll steak, put in stewpan, adding a little 
butter ; allow to simmer about two and a half hours. Serve 
with its own gravy thickened and flavored with catsup or 
sauce. 

147. Beef Olives — Ingredients — Some steaks weighing about % lb., a 

little white pepper and salt, forcemeat made of the lean and fat of 
veal, a small piece of lean ham or bacon, a bunch of parsley, about 
}i lb. of bread crumbs, 2 eggs. 

Cut some steaks, flatten them with a roller, dredge them 
with a small quantity of white pepper and salt, have some 
forcemeat made with the fat and lean of veal mixed together, 
a small piece of lean ham or bacon, parsley, with a few bread 
crumbs, all beaten in a mortar and mixed with the egg ; lay a 



58 The Dominion Cook Book. 

little over each steak, and roll it up tightly, fastening with a 
skewer ; dip them in the yolk of an egg, then in crumbs of 
bread, and fry them of a pale brown ; dish them with brown 
sauce seasoned with cayenne. 

148. Beefsteak (Stuffed)— Ingredients— About 2 lbs. of beefsteak, 

about 6 oz. of bread crumbs, savory herbs, needle and thread. 

Take the steak an inch thick ; make a stuffing of bread, 
herbs, etc., and spread it over the steak ; roll it up, and with a 
needle and coarse thread sew it together. Lay it in an iron pot 
on one or two wooden skewers, and put in water just sufficient 
to cover it ; let it stew slowly for two hours ; longer if the beef 
is tough ; serve it in a dish with the gravy turned over it. To 
be carved crosswise, in slices, through beef and stuffing. 

149. Beef Omelet — Ingredients — 3 lbs. of beefsteak, ^oia. lb. of suet, 

salt and pepper, a little sage, 3 eggs, 6 Boston crackers. 

Three pounds of beefsteak, three-foujlhs of a pound of suet, 
chopped fine ; salt, pepper and a litfle ' sage, three eggs, six 
Boston crackers rolled ; make into a roll and bake. 

150. Beef (Braized) — Ingredients — I cupful of stale bread, pepper 

and salt, a tablespoonful of onion, 2 tablespoonfuls of dripping, I 
tablespoonftil of flour. 

Buy a piece of the flank that gives a strip about three times 
as long as it is wide, so that it can be rolled up easily. Trim off 
any tough, outer skin which may seem too hard to cook, wipe 
the meat all over with a damp towel, and lay it flat on the table 
with the outside down ; season it highly with salt and pepper ; 
make a stuffing by soaking a cupful of stale bread in cold water 
until it is soft, and then squeeze it in a towel to free it from the 
water ; season it highly with salt and pepper, mix with a table- 
spoonful of onion and spread it over the beef, then roll up the 
beef without displacing the stuffing, and tie it tightly with cord ; 
let two tablespoonfuls of drippings or bacon fat get hot in the 
bottom of a saucepan just large enough to contain the beef, 
then brown the beef in the drippings, over a hot fire ; when it 
is brown dust over it a tablespoonful of flour, turning the beef 
about until the flour is quite brown, and then cover the meat 
with boiling water, and season the gravy thus made with pepper 
and salt ; next put on the cover of the saucepan, and if it does 
not fit steam-tight, seal it with a thick paste of flour and water, 
and set it where its contents will cook slowly for three hours. 



Meats. 59 

At the expiration of that length of time the meat will probably 
be tender; the strings can then be removed, and the beef 
served with the gravy in which it was cooked. 

151. Beef (Stewed) — Ingredients — i tablespoonful of butter, 2 sliced 

onions, 12 whole cloves, allspice, yi, teaspoonful of salt, )^ teaspoon- 
ful of black pepper, i pt. of cold water, 2 or 3 lbs. of tender beef, a 
little ilour, a few sprigs of sweet basil. 

In a stewpan place a large tablespoonful of butter, in which 
fry until quite brown two sliced onions, adding, while cooking, 
twelve whole cloves ; ditto allspice ; half a teaspoonful of salt, 
and half that quantity of black pepper; take from the fire, 
pour in a pint of cold water, wherein lay two or three pounds of 
tender lean beef cut into small, thick pieces ; cover closely, 
and let all stew gently two hours, adding, just before serving, 
a little flour thickening. A few sprigs of sweet basil is an 
improvement. 

152. Hunter's Beef— Ingredients — To a round of beef that weighs 25 

lbs., take 3 oz. of saltpetre, 3 oz. of the coarsest sugar, I dz. of 
cloves, I nutmeg, % an oz, of allspice, 3 handfuls of common salt, 
all in the finest powder. 

The beef should hang two or three days; then rub the 
above well into it, and turn and rub it every day for two or 
three weeks. The bone must be taken out at first. When to 
be dressed, dip it into cold water, to take off the loose spice, 
bind it up tightly with tape, and put it in a pan with a teacup- 
ful of water at the bottom ; cover the top of the meat with 
shred suet, and the pan with a brown crust and paper, and bake 
it five or six hours; when cold take off the paste and tape. 
The meat should be cut with a very sharp knife, to prevent 
waste. 

153. Baked Ox Tongue — Ingredients — 2 eggs, a few cloves, 6 oz. 

of bread crumbs, )i\a. of butter, ^ pt. of good gravy, red currant 
jelly. 

Soak the tongue well in lukewarm water for about twelve 
hours, scrape and trim it,- stick it over with cloves (about 
twenty-four), and boil slowly according to size for two or three 
hours. Then take it up and brush it oyer with the yolks of two 
eggs and sprinkle it with bread crumbs (six ounces). Next bake 
it to a good brown, basting it constantly with a quarter of a 
pound of butter. Put it on a dish, and pour round it half a 
pint of good gravy. Serve with red currant jelly. 



6o The Dominion Cook Book. 

154- Braized Steak — Ingredients — Slices of bacon, steak, an oz. of 
butter, carrot, turnip, onion, a bay leaf, a blade of mace, small 
piece of lemon peel, % pt. of good brown stock or a teaspoonful of 
extract of beef. 

For this the meat should be well hung and tender, and 
about an inch in thickness. First cut off all the fat and lay it 
aside, then lard the steak by drawing tiny slices of bacon 
through it. Put one ounce of butter in a frying-pan and fry the 
steak in this for about a minute, this is to keep in the juices of 
the meat ; then put into a stewpan two or three small slices of 
each of the following : carrot, turnip and onion, together with 
a bay leaf, a blade of mace, and a small piece of lemon peel ; 
add half a pint of good brown stock (this is the quantity for 
about three-quarter of a pound of meat), and stew gently three- 
quarters of an hour. If no stock is at hand, a teaspoonful of extract 
of beef dissolved in water will answer Ihe purpose. Before dish- 
ing up, cut up about the quarter of a small carrot, ditto turnip, 
into small strips ; boil them till tender, then drain and place 
on the steak when serving. The gravy in which the meat is 
cooked should be carefully strained over it, and for garniture, 
besides the vegetables already mentioned, it should have the 
fat, which must be cut into small dice, and fried for the pur- 
pose. 

155. Beef Tongue. 

If it has been dried and smoked before it is dresseo it 
should be soaked over night, but if only pickled a few hours will 
be sufficient. Put it in a pot of cold water over a slow fire for 
an hour or two before it comes to a boil ; then let it simmer 
gently for from three to four hours, according to its size : 
ascertain when it is done by probing it with a skewer. Take 
the skin off, and before serving surround the root with a paper 
frill. 



Meats. 6i 



MUTTON. 



156. Mutton (to Roast). 

Wash the joint and dry in a clean cloth, dredge with a 
little flour and place in the oven basting continually. About 
twenty minutes before serving sprinkle a little salt over it, 
pour off dripping, strain a little boiling water over the joint, 
and serve with red currant jelly. Time, a joint of ten pounds 
will take about two hours. 

157. Leg: of Mutton (Boiled). 

Cut off the shank bone, wash and wipe in a clean cloth, 
place in saucepan, cover with boiling water, allow it to boil up ; 
then draw to back of stove where it should stand till the finger 
can stand the water. Then draw nearer the fire and simmer 
gently ; skim well and add a little salt. Time, for ten pounds, 
about two and a half hours after it boils. 

158. Leg of Mutton (Boned)— Ingredients— Leg of mutton, weigh- 

ing 7 or 8 lbs. i forcemeat. 

Get the butcher to take the bone from the mutton, as he 
can do it without spoiling the skin. Fill up the hole with the 
forcemeat, then sew it up to prevent it falling out, tie up neatly 
and roast about two hours or a little longer. Serve with a 
good gravy. 

159. Shoulder of Mutton (Boiled with Oysters)— Ingre- 

dients — A little pepper, a piece of mace, about 2 doz. oysters, a 

little water, an onion, a few peppercorns, about ^ pt. of good gravy, 

I tablespoonful of flour and butter. 

Hang it some days, then salt it well for two days ; bone it, 

and sprinkle it with pepper and a piece of mace pounded ; lay 

some oysters over it, and roll the meat up tightly and tie it. 

Stew it in a small quantity of water, with an onion and a few 

peppercorns, till quite tender. Have ready a little good gravy, 

and some oysters stewed in it; thicken this with flour and 

butter, and pour over the mutton, when the tape is taken oflf. 

The stewpan should be kept covered. 

160. Lamb Chops- Ingredients— A little butter, a little water, enough 

potatoes to fill a small dish, I teacupful of cream. 
Lamb chops are excellent cooked this way :— Put them in 
a frying pan with a very little water, so little that it will boil 



62 The Dominion Cook Book. 

away by the time the meat is tender; then put in lumps of 
butter with the meat and let it brown slowly ; there will be a 
brown, crisp surface, with a fine flavor. Serve for breakfast 
with potatoes cooked thus : — Choose small ones and let them 
boil till they are tender ; drain off the water, and pour over 
them, while still in the kettle, at least one teacupful of 
cream ; mash them smooth in this. 

l6i. Cornettes De Mouton — Ingredients — Some cold mutton with 
oysters or mushrooms, some hock flour, puff paste, the yolk of an 
egg, vermicelli. 

Mince some cold mutton with either oysters or mushrooms 
very finely, as for croquettes. Take some strong stock well 
flavored with vegetables and highly seasoned, put it in a stew- 
pan, and thicken it with roux («. e., butter melted over a slow 
fire, well skimmed, thickened to a stiff paste with baked sifted 
flour, and left to cool before use). Let the stock simmer, and 
stir in the roux, taking care to stir always in the same direction ; 
when a nice and tolerably thick sauce has been made, add the 
mince to it, and leave it to cool. Then make some puff" paste, 
roll it out very thin — almost as thin as a wafer — cut it into 
pieces, and wrap up in them lumps of the prepared mince about 
the size of a walnut, making small triangular patties. Brush 
these patties over with the yolk of an egg. Dip them in un- 
cooked vermicelli, which will adhere to the egg and paste, and 
bake them in the oven till the vermicelli is of a pale, golden 
brown color. Serve them up dry on a folded napkin. These 
cornettes should be quite soft inside, and melt in the mouth 
when eaten. 

162. Mouton A L'ltalienne — Ingredients — Slices of underdone leg 
of mutton, buttered white paper, macaroni. For the sauce— a 
little strong stock, roux to thicken, juice of a lemon, mushroom 
catchup to taste, cayenne pepper. 

Cut some slices of underdone leg of mutton, about half an 
inch thick. Wrap them each in a piec^ of buttered white 
paper, and broil them over a clear fire. Then remove the 
papers as quickly as possible, and put the meat in the centre of 
dish, arranging round it a wall of hot boiled macaroni. Pour 
over it a sauce made as follows, and serve very hot. The 
Sauce : — Take some strong stock, thicken with brown roux 
and flavor the sauce with lemon juice, mushroom catchup, 
and cayennne pepper. All these receipts for doing up cold 



Meats. 63 

mutton were given by a first-rate French cook, and, if followed 
carefully by a cook who has some taste and discretion in seas- 
oning, will be found to be very good. 

163. Haricot Mutton— Ingredients— Scrag of mutton, a little flour, 

2 small onions, I bunch of savory herbs, 3 cloves, pepper and salt, I 
blade of mace, 2 small carrots, i turnip, a little sugar. 

Cut the meat into shapely pieces and fry a nice color; 
sprinkle them with a little flour, pepper and salt. Put all into 
a stewpan, just cover with boiling water, then put in your onion 
stuck with three cloves, the herbs and mace. Allow this to 
boil very gently till the meat is tender ; take off any fat there 
may be. Cut up the turnip and carrots (if cut with vegetable 
cutter they will look nicer) ; fry them in a little sugar to color 
them ; add these to the meat and allow to simmer for fifteen or 
twenty minutes. When ready to serve, take out the onion and 
bunch of herbs. 

164. Sweetbreads (Larded)— Ingredients— A couple of sweet- 

breads, a few slips of bacon, onions, carrots, sweet herbs, pepper, 
salt, spice to taste, a small quantity of rich stock. 

Trim a couple of sweetbreads, soak them half an hour in 
tepid water, then parboil them for a few minutes, and lay them 
in cold water ; when quite cold take them out, dry them, and 
lard them thickly with fine strips of bacon. Put a slice of fat 
bacon in a stewpan with some onions, carrots, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and spices to taste, and a small 
quantity of rich stock ; lay the sweetbreads on this, and let 
them gently stew till quite done, basting the top occasionally 
with the hquor. When cooked, strain the liquor, skim off 
superfluous fat, reduce it almost to a glaze, brown the larded 
side of the sweetbreads with a salamander, and serve with sauce 
over them. 

165. Sweetbread (Lamb's) — Ingredients — Sweetbreads, a ladleful 

of broth, pepper and salt, a bunch of onions, ■*. blade of mace, 
butter and flour, 2 or 3 eggs, some cream, parsley, nutmeg, aspara- 
gus-tops. 
Blanch them, and put them a little while into cold water. 
Then put them into a stewpan with a ladleful of broth, some 
pepper and salt, a small bunch of small onions, and a blade of 
mace ; stir in a piece of butter and flour, and stew half an hour. 
Have ready two or three eggs well beaten in cream, with a little 
minced parsley, and a few grates of nutmeg. Put in some 



64 The Dominion Cook Book. 

boiled asparagus-tops to the other things. Don't let it boii 
after the cream is in ; but make it hot, and stir it well all the 
while. Take care it does not curdle. 

166. Irish Stew — Ingredients — About 3 lbs. of loin or neck of mutton, 

4 lbs. potatoes, 4 large onions, pepper and salt to taste, and about 
I pt. of water. 

Cut the pieces neatly, pare and slice the potatoes not too 
thin, cut up the onions, now place a layer of potatoes at the 
bottom of the saucepan, then a layer of mutton and onions, 
seasoning with pepper and salt ; proceed in this way until the 
stewpan is full, now put in the water and stew slowly for two 
hours, keeping the cover on until done. Shake occasionally to 
prevent burning. 

167. Toad-in-the-Hole (Cold EVSeat Cookery)— Ingredients 

^6 oz. of flour, I pt. of milk, 3 eggs, a few slices of cold mutton, 
pepper and salt to taste, 2 kidneys. 

Make a batter of flour, milk and eggs, butter a baking-dish, 
and pour in the batter. Into this, place a few slices of cold 
mutton, previously well seasoned, and the kidneys, which should 
be cut into rather small pieces ; bake about one hour, and 
send it to table in the dish it was baked in. Oysters or mush- 
rooms may be substituted for the kidneys, and will be found 
exceedingly good. 

168. Mirtton Pie (Cold iVIeat Cookery) — Ingredients — 

Pieces of cold leg of mutton, pepper aild salt to taste, an eggspoon- 
ful of mace, a dessertspoonful of minced parsley, a teaspoonful of 
savory herbs, 4 potatoes, a cup of gravy, crust. 

Cut into thin slices, place a layer at bottom of dish, sprinkle 
some seasoning, a layer of potatoes sliced, and repeat until dish 
is full, now add gravy, cover with crust and bake about one 
hour. 

169. Kidneys (Fried). 

After plunging in boiling water cut them in thin slices, and 
fry in hot butter ; add pepper, salt, and toss them for a few 
minutes in rich brown gravy. 

170. Kidneys (Grilled). 

Prepare them as above, cut each kidney in half, and dip 
them in egg beaten up with salt and pepper; breadcrumb 
them, dip them in melted butter, breadcrumb them agaiij, then 
grill over a slow fire ; serve with piquante sauce. 



Meats. 



65 





171. Mutton (to Carve). 

Haunch of mutton. Press the 
knife to the bone across the knuckle 
of the joint, along Une i to 2 and 
then cut slices along the whole line 
from 4 to 3. 

172. Leg of Mutton. 

Carry the knife sharply down the line 
from I to 2, and slice from either side. The 
fat will be found at the line 3 to 4. 

1 73. Loi n of M utton. 

Direct your butcher to well joint the 
mutton, or it will not be a pleasant task 
to the carver. Insert the knife at fig. i, 
and if between the bones cut sharply 
along line i to 2. 

174. Fore-Quarter of Lamb. 

To separate the shoulder from the breast is the point, pass 
the knife lightly round the dotted line i, 2, 3, 4, and 5, cutting 
through the skin, raise with a little force the shoulder into 
which the fork is firmly fixed, it will come away with a little 
more cutting; now separate the ribs 
from the brisket by cutting through 
the line 5 to 6, now we can serve ''s 
our guests, carve the ribs along line 
from 9 to 10 and the brisket from 7 
to 8. 

175- Leg of Lamb. 

Loin, saddle, or shoulder is carved in the same manner as 
corresponding joints of mutton. 





66 The Dominion Cook Book. 



PORK. 



176. Leg of Pork (to Roast). 

Choose a small leg of fine young pork ; cut a slit in the 
knuckle with a sharp knife, and fill the space with sage and 
onion chopped, a little pepper and salt. When half done, score 
the skin in slices, but do not cut deeper than the outer rind. 
Apple sauce and potatoes should be served to eat with it. 

177. Leg of Pork (to Boil). 

Salt it eight or ten days : when it is to be dressed, weigh it ; 
let it lie half an hour in cold water to make it white ; allow a 
quarter of an hour for every pound, and half an hour over, from 
the time it boils up ; skin it as soon as it boils, and frequently 
after. Allow water enough. Save some of it to make pea- 
soup. Some boil it in a very nice cloth, floured, which gives a 
very delicate look. It should be small and of a fine grain. 
Serve pease-pudding and turnips with it. 

178. Loin and Neck of Pork; 

Roast them. Cut the skin of the loin across, at distances 
of half an inch, with a sharp penknife. 

179. Shoulders and Breasts of Pork. 

Put them into pickle, or salt the shoulders as the leg ; when 
very nice tliey may be roasted. 

i8o. Neck of Pork (Rolled)— Ingredients— Neck of pork, force- 
meat of chopped sage, a few bread crumbs, salt and pepper, 2 or 3 
berries of allspice. 

Bone it ; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few crumbs 
of bread, salt, pepper, and two or three berries of allspice, over 
the inside ; then roll the meat as tightly as you can, and roast 
it slowly. 

181. Pork Pie— Ingredients— X lb. of lard, I lb. of pork (leg or loin), 
seasoning, i lb. of flour and an egg, % glass of cold water. 

Put the lard and water in rather a large saucepan ; place 

upon the fire and allow to boil (take care it does not boil over, 

or it will catch fire). Cut the pork into pieces about an inch 

square ; when the lard and water are quite boiling pour into 



Meats. 67 

the middle of the flour and mix with a spoon. When the paste 
is cool enough knead it well ; it must be rather stiff; cut off a 
quarter of the paste, and the remainder mould into the shape 
of a basin, pressing it inside ; shape it evenly all round, it should 
be about the third of an inch in thickness ; dip the pieces of 
pork into cold water, seasoning well with pepper and salt, then 
place them in the mould of paste as closely as possible. If 
liked a little chopped sage can be sprinkled over the pork, then 
take the rest of the paste, roll it, and cut to the size of the top 
of the mould ; taking care to have it the same size as the inside; 
break an egg, and divide the yolk from the white ; with a paste 
brush dip into the white of egg, and brush the edge of the paste ; 
then place this on the top of the pie, pressing the edges well. 
Any trimmings of paste that are left, cut into little leaves, dip 
into the white of egg, and stick them on the top of the pie, 
then wet the pie all over with the yolk of the egg and bake for 
about two hours. 

182. Pig's Fry — Ingredients — I lb. of pig's fiy, 3 lbs. of potatoes, I 

onion, s^e and seasoning. 

Put the potatoes into cold water, scrub and wash them well ; 
then place them in a saucepan of cold water and put upon the 
fire to boil ; directly they boil, take them out of the water, peel, 
and cut them into slices ; peel the onion and chop it and two 
or three sage leaves together ; cut the pig's fry into small pieces ; 
grease a dish, and put a layer of potatoes in the bottom ; then 
sprinkle a little of the sage and onion, pepper and salt, then a 
layer of the pig's fry ; then another sprinkling of the seasoning, 
and so on until the dish is full ; then put in a little water for 
gravy ; the skin usually sent with pig's fry put over the top of 
the dish ; if the skm is not sent, take a piece of whitish brown 
paper and grease it and place upon the dish instead. Bake 
for about one hour. 

183. Pork (Pickled). 

The quantities proportioned to the middlings of a pretty 
large hog, the hams and shoulders being cut off. 

Mix, and pound fine, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound of 
coarse sugar, an ounce of sal-prunel, and a little common salt : 
sprinkle the pork with salt and drain it twenty-four hours ; then 
rub with the above ; pack the pieces tightly in a small deep tub 
filling up the spaces with common salt. Place large pebbles 



68 The Dominion Cook Book. 

on the pork to prevent it from swimming in the pickle which 
the salt will produce. If kept from air, it will continue very 
fine for two years. 

184. Pork (Hashed) — Ingredients — Some remnants of cold roast pork, 

pepper and salt to taste, 2 onions, 2 blades of mace, i teaspoonfiil oi 
flour, I teaspoonful of vinegar, 2 cloves, ^ pt. of gravy. 

Take the onions, chop and fry them a nice brown ; then 
take the pork and cut it into thin slices, seasoning with pepper 
and salt to taste, and add these to the rest of the above ingre- 
dients ; stew it for about half an hour gently and serve with 
sippets of toasted bread. 

185. Pork Cutlets — Ingredients — Loin of pork, pepper and salt. 

Cut the loin into chops, take the bone out, and the greater por- 
tion of the fat ; season with pepper, and place upon a perfectly 
hot gridiron, and broil for about fifteen minutes. Be particu- 
lar that they are thoroughly done ; dish, sprinkle with a little 
salt, and serve plain, or with tomato sauce. 

186. Sucking Pig Roast— Ingredients— Pig, 8 oz. of bread crumbs, 

18 sage leaves, pepper and salt, tablespoonful of butter, salad oil to 
baste with, tablespoonful of lemon juice, ^ pt. of gravy. 

Stuff the pig with finely grated bread crumbs, minced sage, 
pepper and salt, and a tablespoonful of butter. Take care 
these are well blended. After stuffing the pig sew up the slit 
neatly, truss the legs back, to allow the inside to be roasted, 
put in oven, and directly it is dry have ready some butter tied 
in a piece of thin cloth, and rub the pig with this in every part. 
Continue this operation several times while roasting ; do not 
allow the pig to burn in any part. Then take half a pint of 
gravy, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and the gravy that flowed 
from the pig; pour a little of this over the pig, and the 
remainder "send to table in a tureen. Instead of butter for 
basting many cooks use salad oil as this makes the crackling 
crisp. Before dishing cut off the head and part the body down 
middle, and lay on the dish back to back. Take care that it 
is sent to table very hot, and serve with apple sauce. It will 
take about two hours for a small pig to roast. 

187. Pig's Pettitoes — Ingredients — ^A slice of bacon cut thin, aa 

onion, a blade of mace, S peppercorns, 4 sprigs of th)rme, I pt. of 
gravy, pepper and salt, thickening of butter and flour. 

Put the heart, pettitoes and liver, into a saucepan, add the 



Meats. 69 

bacon, mace, peppercorns, onion, thyme and gravy ; simmer 
gently for twenty minutes ; take out the heart and liver and 
mince very finely ; allow the feet to stew until quite tender, 
they will take about half an hour ; then return to the saucepan 
the liver, thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour, 
sprinkle a little pepper and salt, and simmer very gently for five 
or six minutes, stirring occasionally ; when ready to dish split 
the feet, and arrange them round the mince with sippets of 
toasted bread, and pour the gravy in the center. 

1S8. Pork Cheese — Ingredients — About 2 lbs. of cold roast pork, a 
dessertspoonful of chopped-up parsley, 5 sage leaves, pepper and 
salt, a bunch of savory herbs, 2 blades of mace, a little nutmeg, }4 
teaspoonful of minced lemon peel, sufficient gravy to fill the mould. 

Cut the pork into pieces, but do not chop ; there should be 
about a quarter of fat to a pound of lean ; sprinkle with pepper 
and salt, pound the slices thoroughly and mince as finely as 
possible, the parsley, sage, lemon peel, and herbs ; then mix 
all this nicely together. Place in mould and fill with gravy. 
Bake a little over an hour. When perfectly cold turn out. 

189. Sausages— Ingredients— Pork, fat and lean, s^e, pepper and 

salt, a little allspice. 
Chop fat and lean of pork together ; season with sage, pepper 
and salt, and you may add two or three berries of allspice ; 
half fill hogs' guts that have been soaked and made extremely 
clean : or the meat may be kept in a very small pan, closely 
covered ; and so rolled and dusted with a very little flour be- 
fore it is fried. Serve on stewed red cabbage, or mashed pota- 
toes, put in a form, brown with a salamander, and garnish with 
the above ; they must be pricked with a fork before they are 
dressed, or they will burst. 

190. Ham (how to boil to give it an excellent flavor) 

— Ingredients — 2 heads of celery, 2 turnips, vinegar and water, a 

large bunch of savory herbs, and 3 onions. 
In choosing a ham, be sure that it is perfectly sweet. To 
ascertain this stick a sharp knife into it near the bone, when the 
knife is taken out, it will have an agreeable smell if the meat is 
sweet. If the meat has been hung for a long time, and it is 
salt and dry, it would be necessary to soak for twenty-four hours, 
and change the water often. Put the meat in a large pot with 
sufficient water to cover it ; bring it to a boil gradually, and 
carefully take ofi" the scum as it rises ; when on the point of 



70 The Dominion Cook Book. 

boiling add the vegetables and herbs ; let it simmer gently 
until quite tender, then take it out, strip off the skin, cover 
with bread raspings and put a paper frill round the knuckle. 
Four hours will be sufficient for a ham weighing ten pounds. 

191. Ham (Potted)— Ingredients— 2 J^ lbs. of lean ham, ^ lb. of fat, 

I teaspoonful of pounded mace, a saltspoonful of pounded allspice, 
^ nutmeg, clarified butter, pepper. 

Take some slices of cold ham, cut them small, mixing the 
lean and fat in the above proportions ; proceed to pound the 
ham to a fine paste in a mortar ; gradually add the seasoning, 
and take care that all the ingredients are well mixed, press the 
mixture into pots, cover with the clarified butter and keep it 
cool 

192. Ham (Baked)— Ingredients — Ham, crust. 

Allow the ham to soak in water for twelve hours ; wipe it 
dry, and trim any rusty places underneath ; cover with a com- 
mon crust, taking care that it is thick enough to keep the gravy 
in ; have the oven at a moderate heat and bake for about four 
hours ; when done, take off crust and skin, cover with raspings, 
and garnish the knuckle with a paper frill. Very good. 

193. To Glaze a Ham — Ingredients — ^An egg, salt, melted butter, 

a cup of powdered cracker, a little cream. 

After the ham is skinned and cold, brush all over with beaten 
egg ; mix the cracker, salt and melted butter with cream enough 
to make a thick paste; spread it evenly over the ham and 
brown in a moderate oven. 

194. To Make Lard. 

Take the inner part of the pig, put into a stone jar, and 
place in a saucepan of boiling water ; allow it to simmer 
gently, and as it melts, strain carefully from the sediment ; put 
in small jars and keep in a cool place. The fleed makes ex- 
ceedingly light crust, and is very wholesome. 

195. Tripe (to dress) — Ingredients — Tripe, milk and water, onion 

sauce. 

Cut away the coarsest fat, take equal proportions of milk and 
water, and boil for three quarters of an hour. Have ready 
some onion sauce, and when ready to dish, smother the tripe 
with the sauce, and any that is left send to table in a tureen. 

196. Fried Tripe — Ingredients — Salt and water, pepper, flour, lard, a 

tablespooniul of vinegar. 



Meats. 71 

Scrape the tripe well ; cut into squares the size of your hand ; 
boil in salt and water (a tablespoonful of salt to one quart of 
water) till very tender. The next day cut into smaller pieces, 
season with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, fry brown on 
both sides in a pan of hot lard. When done, take it out, pour 
near'y all the lard out, add a good gill of boiling water, thicken 
with flour, mixed smooth with a tablespoonful of vinegar ; 
season to taste, and pour hot over the tripe. A nice breakfast 
dish. 

Tripe may be cooked several ways, it can be stewed in gravy 
with mushrooms, or cut into collops, sprinkled with chopped 
onion and savory herbs, and fried a nice brown in clarified 
butter. 

197. Tripe (stewed) — Ingredients — 2 qts. of water, pepper and salt, 
onions, a piece of butter, z tablespoonfUls of cream, nutmeg, 2 slices 
of buttered toast. 

See that the tripe is washed very white ; cut up in pieces and 
put them into a stewpan with two quarts of water, and pepper 
and salt to taste. Let boil until quite tender, which will take 
about two hours and a half, or perhaps longer; have some 
white onions boiled until quite tender ; theif turn them out in 
a cullender to drain ; then mash them, putting theirt back into 
your saucepan (which you have previously wiped out) with a 
piece of butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, a grating 
of nutmeg and a very little salt ; sprinkle in a little flour, set 
the pan on the fire, keeping it well covered, and give it one 
boil. - Place at the bottom of a dish two slices of buttered 
toast, cut in pieces, and put the tripe over it. 

TO CARVE PORK. 
Sucking Pig. 

The first act is to separate the shoulder from the carcase by 
drawing the knife round the line 1,2,3 — the shoulder will then 
easily come away. Then take off 
the leg by cutting round the line 
1,2,3 Jii the same way as shoulder. 
The ribs are now open to the knife, 
which should be carried down line 
4 to 5. The other half of pig is of 
course served in the same manner. 




72 



The Dominion Cook Book. 



Ham. 

To reach the choice portion take a thin 
sharp knife, which should be carried 
down to the bone along line i to 2. The 
slices must be thin and even and cut to 
the bone. 
Leg of Pork. 

Carry the knife sharply down to the bone 
through the crackling along line i to 2. 

Note. — Other joints do not call for any 
special remarks as to carving. 





VEAL. 

198. Roast Veal (stufFed) — Ingredients — 8 oz. of bruised bread 

crumbs, 4 oz. of chopped suet, shallot, thyme, marjoram, and winter 
savory, 2 eggs, salt and pepper. 

To eight ounces of bruised crumbs of bread add four ounces 
of chopped suet, shallot, thyme, marjoram and winter savory, 
all chopped fine ; two eggs, salt and pepper to season ; mix all 
these ingredients into a firm, compact kind of paste, and use 
this stuffing to fill a hole or pocket which you will have cut with 
a knife in some part of the piece of veal, taking care to fasten 
it in with a skewer. A piece of veal weighing four pounds 
would require rather more than an hour to cook it thoroughly. 

199. Veal (Stew^ed) — Ingredients — 2 qts. of water, i peeled onion, a 

few blades of mace, a little salt, ^ lb. of rice, butter, chopped 

parsley. 
Break the shank bone, wash it clean, and put it into two 
quarts of water, an onion peeled, a few blades of mace and a 
little salt ; set it over a quick fire, -and remove the scum as it 
rises ; wash carefully a quarter of a pound of rice, and when 
the veal has cooked for about an hour skim it well and throw 
in the rice ; simmer for three quarters of an hour slowly ; when 
done put the meat in a deep dish and the rice around it. Mix 
a little drawn butter, stir in some chopped parsley, and pour 
over the veal. 

200. Veal and Ham Pie — Ingredients — Forcemeat balls, I or 2 

eggs, ham and veal, mushrooms, gravy, pie crust, jelly, onions, 
herbs, lemon peel, salt, cayenne, mace, parsley, whites of eggs. 



Meats. 73 

Cut some thin slices off the leg or neck of veal, free them 
from skin and gristle, lard them well, and season with salt and 
pepper. Have some eggs boiled hard and some thin slices of 
ham. Make some forcemeat balls with fat bacon, the trim- 
mings of the veal, chopped onions, parsley and sweet herbs, 
grated lemon peel, salt, cayenne and pounded mace. Pound 
all in a mortar, and bind with one or two eggs. Line a pie 
dish with good paste, and fill it with layers (not too close) — 
first one of ham, then one of veal, of forcemeat balls, of the 
eggs (cut in halves), and so on ; a few mushrooms may be 
added ; put in some gravy ; lastly, a layer of thin bacon ; and 
cover all with tolerably thick crust, glaze. Bake for about four 
hours in a moderate oven. Through the hole in the top insert 
some good savory jelly — made with ox or calf s foot, knuckle 
of veal, and trimming of bacon and ham well flavored with 
onions, more herbs and lemon peel, and cleared with the 
whites of eggs. Leave till quite cold, then it can be cut with a 
.sharp knife into slices. 

!20l. Veal Pucldin£ — Ingredients — A few pieces of salt pork, butter, 
' pepper, salt, parsley, thyme and flour. 

Line a pudding mould or tin pail with a rich paste and fill 
the cavity with bits of veal cut into small pieces ; add a few 
pieces of salt pork and season to taste with butter, pepper, salt, 
parsley and thyme, and sufficient boiling water to fill the mould 
two-thirds full ; dredge with flour and then cover the top with 
paste, and after placing the cover on firmly, tie a cloth closely 
over the entire mould, and place it in boiling water and allow 
it to boil an hour or more. 

202. Veai Cake— Ingredients — Some hard boiled eggs, a layer of ham, 

tongue or sausage meat, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, a layer of veal. 

Have some slices of veal ; put a layer of hard boiled eggs 
into a dish, then a layer of ham, tongue or sausage meat ; season 
with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg ; then a layer of veal — 
in this way fill up the dish. Bake in the oven with a little 
water in the dish, keep it covered while baking ; when done 
put a weight on until cold, then turn it out. A nice dish for 
breakfast or supper. 

203. Veal (Marbled) — Ingredients— Spice, butter, tongue and veal. 
Take some cold roasted veal, season with spice, beat in a 

mortar ; skin a cold boiled tongue, cut up and pound it to a 



74 The Dominion Cook Book. 

paste, adding to it nearly its weight of butter ; put some of the 
veal into a pot, and strew in lumps of the pounded tongue ; put 
in another layer of the veal and then more tongue; press it 
down and pour clarified butter on top ; this cuts very prettily 
like veined marble. White meat of fowls may be used instead 
of veal. 

204. Veal Scollop — Ingredients — Pepper and salt, crackers, milk and 

gravy from meat, 2 eggs, butter. 

Chop some cold roast or stewed veal very fine ; put a layer 
on the bottom of a pudding dish well buttered ; season with 
pepper and salt. Next have a layer of finely-powdered crackers ; 
wet with a little milk or some of the gravy from the meat. 
Proceed until the dish is full ; spread over all a thick layer of 
cracker-crumbs, seasoned with salt and wet into a paste with 
milk and two beaten eggs. Stick pieces of butter all over it, 
cover closely, and bake half an hour ; then remove the cover 
and bake long enough to brown nicely. Do not get it too dry. 

205. Quenelles of Veal— Ingredients— i lb. of veal cutlet, a gill of 

water, salt, butter, nutmeg, flour, 4 eggs, ^ gill of cream. 

Remove the skin from one pound of veal cutlet, and cut it 
into small pieces. Put into a stewpan a gill of water, a pinch of 
salt, and a small piece of butter ; when boiling stir in as much 
flour as will form a paste ; when it is smooth put it away to get 
cold, then take half the quantity of butter that you have of veal, 
and half the quantity of paste you have of butter, put the paste 
into a mortar, pound it well, then add the butter, pound it, 
then add the veal ; pound well for ten minutes, add one whole 
egg, three yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, 
work well together, pass through a wire sieve, stir in half a gill 
of cream, shape the quenelles with two tablespoons, place 
them in a well-buttered stew pan, leaving a clear space on one 
side; put a good pinch of salt in that space, pour in sufficient 
boiling water to cover the quenelles, and leave them to poach 
for ten minutes, then drain them carefully on a cloth ; arrange 
on a dish. 

206. Fricandeau of Veal— Ingredients— A fillet or cushion of 

veal, lard, bacon, carrots, onions, sweet herbs, salt, pepper, spices, 
stock, spinach. 

Neatly trim a nice piece of fillet or cushion of veal, lard it 
thickly on one side with bacon. Place in a large stewpan a 



Meats. 75 

layer of slices of bacon, then some carrots and onions cut in 
slices, with a bundle of sweet herbs, pepper, salt and spices to 
taste ; lay the piece of veal in the middle, and moisten with 
about a pint of stock. Let the meat stew gently for two or 
three hours, basting the top occasionally. Then strain off the 
gravy, put it into a small saucepan, skim off superfluous fat, add 
to it a little butter mixed smooth with a small quantity of flour, 
and let the gravy reduce nearly to a glaze ; .pour it over the 
meat, the top of which should be previously browned with a 
salamander if necessary, and serve with a border of spinach. 

207. Rolled Vea.! — Ingredients — Loin of veal, forcemeat, bacon, bread 
^ crumbs, e^s, lemon peel, sweet herbs, salt, cayenne, pounded 

mace, fat bacon. 

Bone a loin of veal and stuff it with forcemeat made of 
bacon, bread crumbs and eggs, and flavored with lemon peel, 
sweet herbs, salt, cayenne and pounded mace. Tie it up, keep- 
ing it the shape of a large sausage ; lay some slices of fat bacon 
on it, and stew gently for four hours in well-flavored stock. Let 
it cool j remove from the stock, and put it under heavy 
weights. When quite cold, glaze it. 

208. Collared Calf S Head -Ingredients— A calf s head, 5 table- 

spoonfuls of parsley, 4 blades of pounded mace, pepper to taste, a 
grated nutmeg, a few thick slices of,ham, the yolks of 5 eggs boiled 
hard. 

Scald the head for ten minutes, then scrape off the hair ; 
divide the head and remove the brains ; boil for about two 
hours, and if tender remove the bones. When this is done 
flatten it on the table, sprinkle a thick layer of parsley, likewise 
of ham, and cut the yolks of the eggs into rings, and place these 
upon the ham, then season with pounded mace, white pepper 
and nutmeg between each layer ; roll the head in a cloth, and 
tie as tightly as possible. Boil for about four hours then 
remove from the pot ; place a heavy weight on the top. ' Let it 
remain till cold, then remove the cloth and serve. 

209. Veal Sausages — Ingredients — Equal quantities of lean veal 

and fat bacon, a handful of sage, salt, pepper, a few anchovies. 

Chop equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a handful 
of sage, a little salt, pepper, and a few anchovies. Beat all in 
a mortar ; and when thoroughly blended, roll and fry it, and 
serve with fried sippets, or on stewed vegetables, or on white 
coUops. 



76 The Dominion Cook Book. 

210. Veal Outlets— Ingredients— 4 lbs. of the best end of the neck of 

veal, Yz teaspoonful of minced thyme, rind of a small lemon, i 
bunch of parsley, i tablespoonful of butter, i teaspoonful of lemon 
juice, I egg, pepper and salt, bread crumbs, yi lb. of bacon. 

To shape the cutlets, saw off the end of the rib bone, saw off 
the chine bone also, which lies at the back of the cutlets ; then 
form the cutlets to a neat shape. Mince thyme and lemon rind 
and parsley, as finely as possible ; melt the butter, and add 
these ingredients to it ; add also the egg, pepper and salt, and 
beat all up together ; then rub very finely some crumbs of 
bread ; dip each cutlet into the mixture, then cover with bread 
crumbs ; when the gridiron is perfectly warm, arrange the cut- 
lets upon it. Have the fire nice and bright, but do not allow 
them to cook too fast or the bread crumbs will burn before the 
cutlets are cooked through ; allow them to brown nicely on both 
sides ; about ten minutes will be the time. Serve on a wall of 
mashed potatoes in a circle ; fill the centre of dish with rolls of 
bacon and with a nice brown sauce. (See " Sauces.") 

For rolls. — Cut some neat slices of bacon, roll them up and 
run a skewer through each ; place these in the oven for about 
five minutes, then remove skewers and arrange in centre of the 
dish. 

211. Haricot of Veal— Ingredients— Best end of a small neck, a 

little brown gravy, i pt. of peas, 6 small cucumbers, 2 lettuces, a 
little broth, a few forcemeat balls. 

Take the best end of a small neck ; cut the bones short, but 
leave it whole ; then put it into a stewpan just covered with 
brown gravy ; and when it is nearly done, have ready a pint of 
boiled peas, six cucumbers pared and sliced, and two cabbage- 
lettuces cut into quarters, all stewed in a little good broth ; put 
them with the veal, and let them simmer ten minutes. When 
the veal is in the dish, pour the sauce and vegetables over it, 
and lay the lettuce with forcemeat balls round it. 

212. Hashed Calfs Head (a la Pouiette) — Ingredients — 

Calf s head, 2 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, ^ pt. of white 
. stock, a few button mushrooms, white pepper and salt to taste; 2 
eggs, juice of a lemon, parsley. 

Cut the remnants of a boiled head into uniform pieces the 
size of half an apple. Melt in a saucepan one or two ounces 
of butter, according to the quantity of meat to be hashed ; 
amalgamate with it one or two tablepoonfuls of flour, then stir 
in half a pint, more or less, of white stock. Stir well, then add 



Meats. 77 

a few button mushrooms, white pepper and salt to taste, and 
let the sauce boil for ten minutes. Put the saucepan by the 
side of the fire, and lay the pieces of calf s head in it ; let them 
get hot slowly, but not boil. Just before serving stir in oS the 
fire the yolks of two eggs, beaten up with the juice of a lemon, 
and strained ; also a small quantity of parsley very finely minced. 

213. Minced Vea,! — Ingredients — Some remnants of roast or braized 

veal, a shallot, a little butter, a little flour, a little stock, a. few 
sprigs of parsley, pepper and salt, nutmeg to taste, a few drops of 
lemon juice, fried bread and poached eggs. 

Take some remnants of roast or braized veal, trim off all 
browned parts, and mince it very finely ; fry a shallot, chopped 
small, in plenty of butter ; when it is a light straw color add a 
large pinch of flour and a little stock, then the minced meat, 
with chopped parsley, pepper, salt and nutmeg to taste ; mix 
well, add more stock if necessary, and let the mince gradually 
get hot by the side of the fire ; lastly, add a few drops of lemon 
juice. Serve with sippets of bread fried in butter round, and 
the poached eggs on the top. 

214. Veal (braized loin of) — Ingredients — Veal, 2 oz. of butter, 

I carrot, I onion, a little parsley, sweet herbs, a leaf or two of basil, 
a bay leaf, a crust of bread toasted brown, a little flour and a little 
stock. 

Take about two ounces of butter, one carrot, one onion, % 
little parsley, sweet herbs, a leaf or two of basil, and a bay leaf; 
brown a large crust of bread, and put it in a stewpan with the 
above things, and fry them until they are brown ; then flour the 
meat, and brown it well, putting it back in the saucepan ; add 
a little stock, and baste it in the gravy till done, and keep turn- 
ing the meat. Simmer four pounds for three or four hours. 

215. Stewed Oalfs Head. 

Wash in three or four waters and remove the brains. Now 
secure the head in a floured cloth. Slightly salt enough hot 
water to cover it, and boil two hours slowly. After washinajhe 
brains carefully and rejecting the membrane and any pieces of 
skin, stew in just enough water to cover them. Take them out, 
mash smooth with a wooden potato masher, and add a little of 
the liquor in which the head was boiled. Season with a sprin- 
kle of sage, pepper, salt, ground cloves, chopped parsley, and 
butter the size of an egg. Place on stove in saucepan, simmer 



78 



The Dominion Cook Book. 




until you need it. If the head is tender, take up and drain. 
Now score with a sharp knife and cover with melted butter. 
Dredge with flour, place in oven to brown. Send to table with 
the gravy poured over it. 

VEAL CARVING. 
Calf's Head. 

Insert the knife down to the bone and cut 
slices in the direction of the line i to 2 and 
with these slices place a piece of throat 
sweetbread cut from 3 to 4. The eye and 
surrounding flesh are esteemed highly by 
connoisseurs. The jaw bone removed, some nice lean and the 
palate, which is called a titbit, lies under the head. 

Knuckle. 

The dotted line from one to two sufficiently 
indicates the direction which the knife should 
take. 

Fillet of Veal. 

Cut slices not too thick in the direction 
of line I to 2. Be careful to cut evenly. 





% GE-jPlVIES |1 



GENERAL T)IRECTIONS RESPECTING GRAVIES. 

Gravy may be made quite as good of the skirts of beef, and 
the kidneys, as of any other meat, prepared in the same way. 

An ox-kidney, or milt, makes good gravy, cut all to pieces, 
and prepared as other meat ; and so will the shank end of 
mutton that has been dressed, if much be not wanted. 

The shank-bones of mutton are a great improvement to the 
richness of gravy ; but first soak them well, and scour them 
clean. 

Tarragon gives the flavor of French cookery, and in high 
gravies is a great improvement ; but it should be added only a 
short time before serving. 



216. A Good Beef Gravy (for Poultry or Game)— Ingre- 

dients — )4 lb. of lean beef, ^ a pt. of cold water, i small onion, a 

saltspoonful of salt, a little pepper, a tablespoonful of mushroom 

catchup or Harvey's sauce, ^teaspoonful of arrowroot. 

Cut the beef into small pieces and put it and the water into 

a stewpan. Add the onion and seasoning, and simmer gently 

for three hours. A short time before it is required, mix the 

arrowroot with a little cold water, pour into the gravy, while 

stirring, add the Harvey's sauce and allow it just to come to 

the boil. Strain into a tureen and serve very hot. 

217. Savory Gravy (Thick) — Ingredients — l onion, butter, a table- 

spoonful of flour, J4 pt. of broth or stock, pepper and salt, a small 

quantity of Worester sauce. 
Mince one onion fine, fry it in butter to a dark brown, and 
stir in a tablespoonful of flour. After one minute add half a 
pint of broth or stock, pepper and salt, and a very small quan- 
tity of Worcester sauce. 

218. Gravy for Roast Meat— Ingredients— Gravy, salt. 

Put a kitchen dish with a sprinkling of salt in it benejtth 



^ 80 The Dominion Cook Book. 

the meat about twenty minutes before it is removed from the 
oven. Then remove, baste the meat, and pour the gravy on 
the dish intended for serving the joint upon. 

219. Gravy for Venison— Ingredients— Remnants of venison, 4 

mutton shank bones, a little salt, 2 glasses of water, I dessertspoon- 
ful of walnut catchup. 

Brown the venison over a clear fire, and put this with the 
shank bones and water into a stewpan and allow it to boil very 
gentl> for about two hours. Strain an add the catchup and a 
sprinkling vf salt. Serve very hot. 

220. Strong Fish Gravy — Ingredients— 2 or 3 eels, crust of toasted 

bread, 2 blades of mace, some whole pepper, sweet herbs, a piece of 
lemon peel, an anchovy, a teaspoonful of horse radish. 

Skin two or three eels, and wash them very clean ; cut them 
into small pieces and put them into a saucepan. Cover them 
with water, and add a little crust of bread toasted brown, two 
blades of mace, some whole pepper, sweet herbs, a piece of 
lemon peel, an anchovy or two, and a teaspoonful or two of 
horse radish. Cover close, and simmer ; add a piece of butter 
and a httle flour, and boil with the above. 

221. Plain Gravy— Ingredients — An onion, a little butter, ^ pt. of 

stock, pepper and salt, a small piece of lean ham or bacon, a 
dessertspoonful of Worcester sauce, a sprig of parsley and thyme. 

Mince an onion finely, fry it in butter to a dark brown color, 
then add three-quarters of a pint of stock, pepper and salt to 
taste, a small piece of lean ham or bacon minced small, a little 
Worcester sauce, a sprig of thyme and one of parsley. Let it 
boil five or ten minutes, put it by till wanted, and strain it be- 
fore serving. 

222. Gravy for Hashes— Ingredients— Remnants and bones of the 

joint intended for hashing, a pinch of salt and pepper, ^ teaspoon- 
ful of whole allspice, a bunch of savory herbs, a saltspoonful of 
. celery salt or ^ a head of celery, an onion, a small piece of butter, 
a, little com flour, and boiling water. 

Put the bones (having previously chopped them), with the 
remanants of meat, salt, pepper, spice, herbs and celery into a 
stewpan. Cover with boiling water and allow it to simmer for 
two hours. Cut up the onion in neat slices and fry in butter a 
pale brown. Then mix slowly with the gravy from bones. 
Boil fifteen minutes, strain, then return to stewpan, flavor with 
catchup or any flavoring that may be preferred. Thickea with 



Gravies. 8i 



butter and flour and just allow it to come to the boil. Serve 
very hot. 

223. Gravy fior a Fowl (nvhen there is no meat to 

niake.it from).— Ingredients— ^he feet, liver, gizzard, and 
neck of the fowl, a little browned bread, a Slice of onioh, a sprig of 
parsley and thyme, some pepper and salt, a teaspoonful of mush- 
room catchup, a little flour and butter. 

Wash the feet nicely, and cut them and the neck small ; 
simmer them with a little browned bread, a slice of onion, a 
sprig of parsley and thyme, some pepper and salt, and the liver 
and gizzard, in a quarter of a pint of water, till half wasted. 
Take out the liver, bruise it, and strain the liquor to it. Then 
thicken it with flour and butter, and add a teaspoonful of 
mushroom catchup, and it will be very good. 

224. Veal Gravy — Ingredients — Bones, any cold remnants of veal, I^ 

pts. of water, an onion, a saltspoonful of minced lemon peel, a little 
salt, a blade of mace, a few drops of the juice of the lemon, butter 
and flour. 

Place all the ingredients (excepting the lemon juice and 
flour) into a stewpan and allow them to simmer for one hour. 
Strain into a basin. Add a thickening of butter and flour 
mixed with a little water, also the lemon juice. Give one boil 
and serve very hot. Flavor with tomato sauce or catchup. 

225. Coloring for Soups or Gravies. 

Put four ounces of lump sugar, a gill of water, and half an 
ounce of the finest butter into a small tosser, and set it over a 
gentle fire. Stir it with a wooden spoon, till of a bright brown. 
Then add half a pint of water ; boil, skim, and when cold, 
bottle and cork it close. Add to soup or gravy as much of 
this as will give a proper color. 




'Gauges p 

OBSERVATIONS ON SAUCES. 

The appearance and wpparation of sauces are of the 
highest importance. BrowJ^uces should not be as thick as 
white ones, and both shouldjpossess a decided character, so 
that whether sweet or sharp, plain or savory, they would bear 
out their names. Care is also to be taken that they blend and 
harmonize with the various dishes they are to accompany. 



226. White Sauce — Ingredients — I pt. of milk, 2 or 3 mushrooms, I 

onion, I carrot, I bundle of sweet herbs, whole pepper and salt to 
taste, a few cloves, a little mace, I oz. of butter, and I gill of cream. 

Put into one pint of milk two or three mushrooms, an 
onion aijjJ a carrot cut into pieces, a bundle of sweet herbs ; 
whole pepper and salt to taste, a few cloves, and a little mace ; 
let the whole gently simmer for about an hour, put an ounce 
of butter into the saucepan, and stir on the fire until it thickens. 
Finish by stirringj^mj^ill of cream. 

227. White Sauce (Volente)— Ingredients— A fowl, i lb. of lean 

veal, I onion, 5 oz. of butter, white stock, a carrot, a bundle of 
sweet herbs, some whole pepper, a pinch of sugar, 2 oz. of flour. 

Take a fowl, cut i|p into small joints, and one pound of lean 
veal cut into smalF dice, put both into a saucepan with an 
onion sliced, an ounce of butter, and a cupful of white stock ; 
keep tossing on the fire for half an hour, taking care that none 
of the contents take color ; then add as much white stock as 
will well cover them, together with a carrot cut into small 
pieces, 'a bundle of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, and a 
pinch of sugar, and let the whole gently simmer for a couple of 
hours or more. Melt a quarter pound of fresh butter in a sauce- 
pan, and amalgamate two ounces of flour with it without let- 
ting the mixture take any color; strain the above. liquOT 
gradually into it ; set the saucepan at the edge of the fire to 
simmer for an hour and a half, skimming the contents carefully 



Sauces. 83 

_^ 

from time to time. Lastly, turn out the sauce into a basin, 
keeping it stirred till wanted, or cold. This sauce will keep 
several days in a good larder, but it must be warmed up every 
day. 

228. Liver Sauce— Ingredients — Livers of any kind of poultry, butter, 

flour, minced shallots, gravy stock, a small pinch of sweet herbs, 
and pepper, spices, and salt to taste, juice of ^ a lemon. 

Take the livers of any kind of poultry, rabbits or hares ; 
scald them and mince them finely. Melt a piece of butter in 
a saucepan, add a little flour to it and a small quantity of 
minced shallots. Let the whole fry for a minute or two, then 
add gravy stock in sufficient quantity to make a sauce, and a 
small pinch of powdered sweet herbs and pepper, spices and 
salt to taste. Put in the minced livers. Let the sauce boil 
for twenty minutes, and at the time of serving add a small 
piece of fresh butter and the juice of half a lemon. 

229. Mangro Chutney Sauce (Bengal Recipe)— Ingre- 

dients — ^ lb. of garlic, i}4 lbs. of brown sugar, ^ lb. of salt, 2 
bottles of the best vinegar, ^ lb. of onions, X 'b. of dried chilies, 
^ lb. of mustard seed, ^ lb. of stoned rasins, zyi doz. large unripe 
sour apples, ^ lb. of powdered ginger. 

Reduce the sugar to a syrup. Pound the onions, garlic and 
ginger finely in a mortar ; wash the mustard seed in cold vine- 
gar, and allow to dry in the sun ; peel, core and slice the apples, 
then boil them in a bottle and a half of vinegar. When this 
has been done, and the apples are quite cool, put them into a 
good sized pan, and mix the whole of the remaining ingredients 
(as well as the other half bottle of vinegar) gradually. Stir 
well until all are thoroughly mixed, and then put into bottles 
until wanted. Tie wet bladder over the bottles after they have 
been corked. This is a delicious chutney and has been well 
tried and proved. 

230. Egg Sauce. 

Boil the eggs hard and cut them into small pieces ; then put 
them into melted butter. 

231. Governor's Sauce (A Canadian Recipe)— Ingredients 

— I peck of green tomatoes, a cupful of salt, vinegar, 6 green or red 
chilies, a teacupful of brown sugar, I of scraped horse radish, a 
a tablespoonful each of cloves and allspice, a teaspoonful each of red 
and white pepper, 4 large onions. 
Slice a peck of green tomatoes, sprinkle them with a cupful 
of salt, and let them stand a night ; in the morning pour off 



84 The Dominion Cook Book. 

*■ — -•--«■ 
the liquor, and put them into a saucepan with vinegar enough 
to cover them. Add six green or red chilles, four large onions 
chopped fine, a teacupful of brown sugar, one of scraped horse 
radish, a tablespoonful each of cloves and allspice, and a tea- 
spoonful each of red and white pepper. Let it simmer till 
soft, put into jars and keep it air-tight. 

232. Cauliflower Sauce— Ingredients— Two small cauliflowers, 

iK °^. of butter, I tablespoonful of flour, ^ pint of boiling water, 
pepper and salt to taste, yolks of 2 eggs, juice of a lemon. 

Boil two small cauliflowers ; when done, pick them out into 
sprigs and arrange them, head downwards, in a pudding basin, 
which must have been made quite hot ; press them in gently, 
then turn them out dexterously on a dish, and pour over them 
the following sauce, boiling hot : Melt one and a half ounces 
of butter in a saucepan, mix with it a tablespoonful of flour, 
and then add half a pint of boiling water ; stir till it thickens ; 
add salt and white pepper to taste ; then take the saucepan off 
the fire, and stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten up with the 
juice of a lemon and strained. 

233. Mushroom Sauce^Ingredients — A plateful of mushrooms, 3 

shallots, 2 or 3 sprigs of parsley, gravy stock, pepper and salt to taste, 
a small piece of butter, flour. 

Pick clean a plateful of mushrooms, put them into a saucepan 
with three shallots chopped up, and two or three sprigs of 
parsley, cover up with gravy stock, add pepper and salt to taste, 
and let the whole boil for a couple of hours. Strain the liquor, 
passing the mushrooms, etc., through a hair sieve. Melt a 
piece of butter in a saucepan, add a little flour, mix well, then 
add the above. 

234. Dutch Sauce — Ingredients — 3 tablespoonfnls of vinegar, I lb, 

of butter, yolks of 2 eggs, pepper and salt to taste. 

Put three tablespoonfuls of vinegar in a saucepan, and re- 
duce it on the fire to one-third ; add a quarter of a pound of 
butter and the yolks of two eggs. Place the saucepan on a 
slow fire, stir the contents continuously, and as fast as the but- 
ter melts add more, until one pound is used. If the sauce 
becomes too thick at any time during the process, add a table- 
spoonful of cold water and continue stirring. Then put in 
pepper and salt to taste, and take great care not to let the 
sauce boil. When it is made — that is, when all the butter is 
used and the sauce is of the proper thickness — put the sauce- 



Sauces. 85 

pan containing it into another filled with warm (not boiling) 
water until the time of serving. 

235. Piquante Sauce (Without Egss). 

(i) Melt one ounce of butter, and add gradually two table- 
spoonfuls of white wine vinegar, a shallot and a little parsley 
chopped very fine, pepper and salt ; stir over the fire till it 
boils. (2) Chop up some herbs — thyme parsley, tarragon, 
and a shallot (about a tablespoonful in all) — and put them 
into a saucepan with one and a half gills of vinegar; re- 
duce to one gill ; add half a pint of broth, strain, thicken with 
a roux of half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour ; 
boil up the sauce, stirring all the time, add a few chopped herbs, 
pepper and salt, and serve. (3) The following is taken from 
"Round the Table : " " Fry some slices of shallots, or onions, 
till they assume a light brown color (taking care by frequent 
stirring that they do not get burnt or done too much) ; add 
a small piece of garlic, some sweet herbs, and a mixture of 
equal parts of vinegar and water (or of vinegar and broth), 
strain and let the whole boil, then stir this mixture into a 
saucepan containing butter and flour, as for prepared plain melted 
butter; add pepper, salt, some minced parsley, and chopped 
gherkins." 

236. Anchovy Sauce — Ii^edients — About yi oz. of butter, yolk of i 

fresh egg, i teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, cayenne pepper and salt 
to taste, squares of freshly browned toast. 

Heat a dinner-plate until it will melt half an ounce of butter 
placed on it ; take the yolk of a fresh egg, beat it with a fork 
into the butter, add a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, cayenne 
pepper and salt to taste. Have ready some freshly browned 
squares of toast, dip them into the mixture, covering both sides 
and serve at once. 

237. Grill Sauce — Ingredients — i gill of good gravy, I tablespoonful 

of mushroom catchup, I of French mustard, a few chopped capers, 
a little grated lemon peel, butter, flour, a few drops of lemon juice. 

Take one gill of good gravy, mix with it one tablespoonful 
of mushroom catchup, one of French mustard, a few chopped 
capers, a little grated lemon peel ; add a thickening of butter 
and flour and a few drops of lemon juice, simmer till quite hot, 
and pour over the grill, and serve. Legs of chicken and game 
may be treated in the same way, but in making the sauce 
substitute a tablespoonful of chutney for the chopped capers, 



86 The DoiMinion Cook Book. 

and instead of lemon juice add a small quantity of Chili 
vinegar. 

238. Mint Sauce — Ingredients — A quantity of mint leaves, equa' 

quantities of wine-vinegar and water, and a small portion of sugar. 

Chop as finely as possible a quantity of mint leaves previ- 
ously washed ; add to these sufficient wine-vinegar and water, 
in equal parts, to float them, and a small quantity of powdered 
sugar. Let the sauce stand for an hour before serving. 

239. Sweet Sauce — Ingredients —I tablespoonful of flour, 4 table- 

spoonfuls of water, ]^ pt. of boiling water, sugar or treacle to taste, 
I oz, of butter, i tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

Mix a tablespoonful of flour quite smooth in four tablespoon- 
fuls of water, then stir into it half a pint of boiling water, sugar 
or treacle to taste; stir over the fire until the sauce boils, 
when, if allowed, an ounce of butter may be added, with a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice. When sweetened with sugar, a 
little nutmeg or ground cinnamon may be used instead of 
lemon juice, if preferred. A tablespoonful of raspberry jam or 
any fruit syrup may be used to flavor the sauce, and is gener- 
ally much liked. 

240. Horse Radish Sauce. 

One teaspoonful of made mustard, one tablespoonful of 
vinegar, three tablespoonfuls of cream, a little salt, as much 
horse radish grated as will make it as thick as cream. 

241. IVIayonnaise Sauce — Ingredients— The yolks of 4 eggs, a tea- 

spoonful of salt, salad oil, tarragon vinegar, white pepper. 

Carefully strain the yolks of four eggs into a basin, place it 
in a cool place, or, if necessary, on ice ; add a teaspoonful of 
salt, mix well ; then proceed to pour in, a few drops at a time, 
some salad oil, without ceasing to stir the mixture. When one 
spoonful of oil is well incorporated with the yolks of the eggs, 
put in, in the same manner, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar ; 
keep on adding oil and vinegar in these proportions until the 
sauce becomes of the consistency of very thick cream ; then 
add white pepper to taste, and more salt if necessary. 

242. Poor IMan'S Sauce— Ingredients— A good sized onion, butter, 

Yz pt. of common stock or water, a little vinegar, a little minced 
parsley, pepper and salt to taste, a tablespoonful of flour. 

Mince a good sized onion, not too finely, put it into a sauce- 
pan with a piece of butter equal to it in bulk. Fry till the 



Sauces. 87 

onion assumes a light brown color, add half a pint of common 
stock or water and a small quantity of vinegar, pepper and 
salt to taste, and some minced parsley ; then stir the sauce 
into another saucepan, in which a tablespoonful of flour and a 
small piece of butter have been mixed, over the fire. Let the 
sauce boil up, and it is ready. 

243. A cheap brown Sauce — Ingredients— I pt. of brown stock, 

l^ oz. of flour, 2 oz, of butter, 4 mushrooms, salt and pepper. 

Put the butter into a stewpan and put it on the fire to melt ; 
wash the mushrooms in cold water, cut off the stalks and peel 
them ; when the butter is melted stir in the flour and mix to a 
smooth paste ; then add the stock and mushrooms and stir the 
sauce smoothly until it boils and thickens ; then remove the 
stewpan to the back of the stove, and let it simmer gently for 
eight or ten minutes ; season with pepper and salt : be careful 
to skim off the butter as it rises to the top of the sauce. Should 
the sauce be not brown enough, a teaspoonful of carmel might 
be stirred into it ; strain and serve. 

244. Cranberry Sauce — Ingredients — l qt. of ripe cranberries, 

granulated sugar, a teacupful of water. 

Wash the berries, and carefully pick them, then put them 
into a stewpan with the above quantity of water ; allow them 
to stew very slowly, stirring occasionally. They require about 
an hour and a half to cook ; when done sweeten with sugar, 
put into a mould, and when cold it is ready to serve. 

245. Peach Sauce — Ingredients — Peaches, water, sugar. 

Take a quart of dried peaches and soak in water four hours, 
wash them, drain, and put in saucepan with enough water to 
cover them; when they break in pieces, pulp them, and 
sweeten to taste with white sugar. 

246. Onion Sauce (Browf n) — Ingredients— 2 oz. of butter, rather 

more than ^ a pt. of rich gravy, 6 large onions, pepper and salt to 

taste. 
Put into your stewpan, the onions, sliced, fry them of a 
light brown color, with the two ounces of butter ; keep them 
stirred well to prevent them turning black ; as soon as they are 
of a nice color, pour over the gravy, and simmer gently until 
tender ; skim ofif all fat, add seasoning and rub the whole 
through a sieve ; then put in a saucepan and when it boils, 
serve. If a high flavor is wanted a small quantity of mushroom 
catchup may be added. 



88 The Dominion Cook Book. 

247. Roux (Brown, a thickening for soups and 

gravies) — Ingedients — 6 oz. of butter, 9 oz. of flour. 

Melt the butter slowly over the fire, and dredge in very slowly 
the flour, stirring all the time, and when it turns a light brown 
color it is done, and can be put aside into a jar ready for use. 
It will keep good for some time. 

248. Roux(White, for thickening white sauces). 

Proceed as in the last receipt, but do not keep it on the fire 
so long, and take care not to let it color. 

249. Tomato Sauce — Ingredients — 10 lbs. ripe tomatoes, i pt. best 

brown vinegar, 2 oz. salt, ^ oz. cloves, I oz. allspice, y^ lb. white 
sugar, I oz. garlic, Yz oz. black pepper, ^ oz. cayenne pepper. 

Wipe the tomatoes clean, and boil or bake till soft ; then 
strain and rub through a sieve that will retain the seeds and 
skins. Boil the juice for an hour, then add the above ingredi- 
ents (all the spices must be ground). Boil all together for a 
sufficient time, which may be known by the absence of any 
watery particle, and by the whole becoming a smooth mass ; 
five hours will generally suffice. Bottle without straining into 
perfectly dry bottles, and cork securely when cold. The garlic 
must be peeled. The proportions of spice may be varied ac- 
cording to taste. 

250. Oyster Sauce— Ingredients— Oysters, butter, a little flour, milk, 

blade of mace, bay leaf, pepper and salt to taste, a little cayenne, a 
few drops of lemon juice. 

Parboil the oysters in their own liquor, beard them, and re- 
serve all the liquor. Melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, add 
a little flour, the oyster liquor, and a enough milk to make as 
much sauce as is wanted. Put in a blade of mace and a bay 
leaf tied together, pepper and salt to taste, and the least bit of 
cayenne. Let the sauce boil, add the oysters, and as soon as 
they are quite hot remove the mace and bay leaf, stir in a few 
drops of lemon juice, and serve. 

251. Worcester Sauce— Ingredients — Two tablespoonfuls Indian 

soy, two tablespoonfuls walnut catchup, one dessertspoonful of salt, 
one teaspoonfiil cayenne pepper, one nutmeg (sliced thin), one doz. 
cloves, % oz. root ginger pounded, a little lemon peel, a small head 
of garlic divided into cloves, I pt. vinegar, 3 oz. lump sugar. 

Dissolve the sugar in a little of the vinegar over the fire, add 
the other ingredients ; put all into a wide-necked bottle. It 
should stand for a month before using, and is better if shaken 



Sauces. 89 

every day. At the end of the month pour off clear into bottles. 
It is well to make a quart or three pints at a time. 

252. Bread Sauce (to serve with Poultry or Game)— 

Ingredients — Giblets, ^ lb. of stale bread, an onion, 10 whole pep- 
pers, a blade of mace, a little salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, a pint 
of water. 

Put the giblets into a pint of water, add the onion, pepper, 
mace, salt. Allow it to simmer for an hour, then strain the 
liquor over the bread crumbs. Cover the stewpan and let it 
stand on the stove for an hour (do not allow it to boil), then 
beat the sauce up with a fork until it is nice and smooth. 
Allow it to boil five minutes, stirring well until it is thick, then 
add cream and serve hot. 

253. Caper Sauce — Ingredients — 2 oz. of butter, a tablespoonful of 

flour, a pint of boiling stock, pepper and salt, Worcester sauce, 
capers. 

Put two ounces of butter and a tablespoonful of flour into 
a, saucepan ; stir the mixture on the fire until it acquires a 
prown color ; add rather less than a pint of boiling stock, free 
Brom fat J season with pepper, salt, and a little Worcester sauce. 
When the sauce boils throw in plenty of capers j let it boil once 
more, and it is ready. 




254- Common Stock. 

Take all the bones of joints, etc., that are available, car- 
cases and bones of poultry and game (not high), chop them all 
into convenient pieces and put them into a saucepan together 
with any scraps of meat, cooked or uncooked, resulting from 
remnants, the trimmings of cutlets, etc. Add a couple of car- 
rots, one onion, a bunch of parsley, one bay leaf, a small sprig 
of thyme, and one of marjoram ; salt to taste, a small quantity 
of white pepper and allspice mixed, and two or three cloves. 
Fill the saucepan with cold water until it covers the contents 
by one inch, and set it on the fire to boil slowly for about four 
hours ; strain the liquor through a cloth into a basin, and when 
cold, the cake of fat on the top being removed, the stock will 
be fit for use. 

255. Gravy Stock. 

Place a layer of slices of onion in a saucepan holding a 
gallon, over this a layer of fat bacon, and over all about two 
pounds of shin of beef chopped in small pieces ; one pint of 
common stock or even water, being poured on the whole, set 
the saucepan on the fire for one hour, until the liquor is almost 
evaporated — what is called reduced to a "glaze" — then add 
sufficient cold common stock or cold water to cover contents 
of the saucepan, and two or three carrots cut in slices, one 
leek, a head of celery (when in season), or some celery seed, a 
handful of parsley, half a clove of garlic, a sprig of marjoram 
and of thyme, a bay leaf, four or five cloves, white pepper and 
salt to taste. After boiling for about three hours strain off the 
liquor, and, being absolutely freed from fat, it is ready for use. 

256. Veal Stock. 

Toss a couple of onions, sliced, and one pound of lean veal 
cut in pieces in a saucepan with some butter until they assume 
a light color, then add half a pound of ham chopped up small, 
and moisten with a pint of common stock cold and perfectly 



Stocks. 91 

free from fat. Let the liquor reduce almost to a "glaze" — • 

then add two quarts of cold common stock, a knuckle of veal, 

or two calves' feet, a couple of carrots, head of celery, parsley, 

bay leaf, thyme, mace, pepper and salt, all in due proportion. 

After boiling two or three hours strain free from fat and it is 

ready. 

257. White Stock. 

Put a knuckle of veal, or two calves' feet, together with an 
old fowl or a rabbit, and a piece of ham about half a pound, all 
cut up in small pieces, into a saucepan with sufficient water to 
cover the contents ; ^he stock should be carefully skimmed as 
it gradually becomes heated, then put in two carrots, a head of 
celery, two onions and a bunch of parsley, together with two 
bay leaves, a sprig of thyme, mace, cloves, pepper and salt to 
taste, and leave the whole to boil from three to four hours, 
when it should be strained and freed from fat. 

1258. Fish Stock. 

Take a couple of pounds of any kind of fish, such as floun- 

' ders, small eels, or the trimmings of almost any fish that have 
been filleted ; pack them into a saucepan, with a head of parsley, 
including the root, a head of celery, two blades of mace, a few 
cloves, some white pepper and salt to taste, and a bay leaf. 
Put in as much cold water as will cover the contents of the 
saucepan, set it to simmer gently for a couple of hours, then 
strain off the liquor, and it is ready. 




f 






OBSERVATIONS. 

Take care to purchase them perfectly fresh, as this is their 
chief value and excellence. The middle-sized are preferable 
to the larger or smaller ; they are more tender, juicy, and are 
better flavored. Peas and potatoes are seldom worth eating 
before midsummer. Salads, greens, roots, when first gathered 
are firm and have a fragrant freshness. 

Vegetables should be carefully cleaned from insects, and^ 
nicely washed. Boil them in plenty of water, and drain them 
the moment they are done enough. If overboiled, they lose 
their beauty and their crispness. Bad cooks sometimes dress 
them with meat, which is wrong, except carrots with boiUng 
beef. 

To boil vegetables green, be sure the water boils when you 
put them in. Make them boil very fast. Don't cover, but 
watch them ; and if the water has not slackened, you may be 
sure they are done when they begin to sink. Then take them 
out immediately or the color will chang e, jg ard water, especi- 
ally if chalybeate, spoils the color of soM^vetables as should 
be green. ^^ 

To boil them green in hard water, put a teaspoonful of salt 
of wormwood into the water when it boils, before the vegetables 
are put in. 

259. Vesetable Marrow (to Boil or Stew). 

This excellent vegetable may be boiled as asparagus. When 
boiled, divide it lengthways into two, and serve it upon a toast 
accompanied by melted butter ; or when nearly boiled, divide 
it as above, and stew gently in gravy like cucumbers. Care 
should be taken to choose young ones not exceeding six inches 
in length. 



Vegetables. 93 



260. Spinach. 

Carefully wash and pick. When that is done, throw it into 
a saucepan that will just hold it, sprinkle it with a little salt, 
and cover close. The pan must be set on the fire, and well 
shaken. When done, beat the spinach well with a small piece 
of butter ; it must come to table pretty dry, and looks well if 
pressed into a tin mould in the form of a large leaf, which is 
sold at the tinshops. A spoonful of cream is an improvement. 

261. Spinach — Ingredients — Spinach, butter, pepper and salt, boiled 

eggs. 
Wash and pick your spinach very carefully ; drop into a 
cupful of boiling water and cook fifteen minutes. Drain thor- 
oughly through a cullender, then chop quite fine. Return to the 
stove, add one tablespoonful of butter, pepper and salt to taste ; 
put in a vegetable dish and garnish with hard-boiled eggs. 

262. Potatoes (to Broil). 

Parboil, then slice and broil them. Or parboil and then 
[set them on the gridiron over a very slow fire, and when thor- 
loughly done send them up with their skins on. This last way 
is practised in many Irish families. 

263. Potatoes (to Fry). 

Take the skin off raw potatoes, slice and fry them, either 
in butter or thin batter. 

264. Potatoes (to iVlash). 

Boil the potatoes, peel them, and break them to paste ; 
then to two pounds of them add a quarter of a pint of milk, a 
little salt, and twolfcnces of butter, and stir it all well over the 
fire. Either serve^Bp^n this manner, or place them on the 
dish in a form, anflKen brown the top with a salamander, or 
in scallops. 

265. Potatoes (StufFed)— Ingredients— S medium-sized potatoes, >^ 

oz. of butter, i tablespoonful of grated cheese, pepper, salt, and the 
yolk of I egg. 

For these take five of medium size, bake in their skins, and 
when done cut off a small slice from one end, scoop out the 
inside, and rub through a wire sieve. Add to it half an ounce 
of butter, one tablespoonful of grated cheese, pepper, salt, and 
the yolk of an egg. Mix well, refill the skins, fit on the slices 
which were cut off, and put into the oven again for ten minutes 
before serving. 



94 The Dominion Cook Book. 

266. LyonnaiSS Potaitoes — Ingredients — A lump of butter, a small 

onion, cold boiled potatoes, a little parsley. 

Into a saucepan put a large lump of butter and a small 
onion finely chopped, and when the onion is fried to an amber 
color, throw in shoes of cold boiled potatoes, which must be 
thoroughly stirred until they are turning brown; at this moment 
put in a spoonful of finely chopped parsley, and as soon as it 
is cooked drain through a cullender, so that the potatoes retain 
the moisture of the butter and many particles of parsley. 

267. Saratoga Potatoes— Ingredients— Potatoes, boiling lard and 

salt. 

Peel, and slice on a slaw-cutter into cold water, wash thor- 
oughly and drain ; spread between the folds of a clean cloth, 
rub and pat until dry. Fry a few at a time in boiling lard, salt 
as you take ihem out. Saratoga potatoes are often eaten cold. 
They can be prepared three or four hours before needed, and 
if kept in a warm place they will be crisp and nice. 

268. Bermuda Potatoes (Fried)— Ingredients— 2 oz. of butter, 

parsley, salt and pepper, a cup of milk, a tablespoonful of flour. 

Slice the potatoes and put them into boiling water ; cook 
until tender ; remove and put them into a saucepan with two 
ounces of butter, chopped parsley, salt and pepper and a cup 
of milk ; cook all together and thicken with a tablespoonful of 
flour stirred in cold water. 

269. Potatoes (SauteeS au Beurre)— Ingredients— Butter, 

salt. 

Cut with a vegetable cutter into small balls about the size 
of a marble ; put them in a saucepan with plerily of butter and 
a good sprinkling of salt ; keep the saucepan covered, and 
shake it occasionally until they are quite done, which will be 
in about an hour. 

270. Potatoes (Stewed)— Ingredients— Milk, 1 pint, a tablespoon- 

ful of flour. 

Peel and cut into small uniform pieces as many potatoes as 
may be needed. Have ready enough of boiling water (slightly 
salted) to cover them ; boil until done. Skim them out of the 
water into a dish and pour milk gravy over them (made of a 
pint of boiled milk, into which has been stirred a tablespoonful 
of flour previously dissolved in a little cold milk). Cold boiled 
potatoes can be served in the same way. 



Vegetable. 95 



271, Potato Balls — Ingredients — 4 large potatoes, 2 tablespoonfuls of 

butter, a pinch of salt, a little pepper, i tablespoonful of cream, z 
eggs, boiling lard. 

Four large mealy potatoes, cold ; mash them in a pan with 
two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, a pinch of salt, a little 
pepper, one tablespoonful of cream and the beaten yolk of one 
egg; rub it together for about five minutes, or until very 
smooth ; shape the mixture into balls about the size of a wal- 
nut or small rolls, dip them into an egg well beaten and then 
into the finest sifted bread crumbs ; fry them in boiling lard. 

272. Potatoes (Escalloped) — Ingredients — Cream, a large piece 

of butter, a little salt. 

Having boiled, beat them fine in a bowl, with cream, and a 
large piece of butter, and a little salt. Put them into escallop 
shells, make them smooth on the top, score with a knife, and 
lay thin slices of butter on the tops of them. Then put them 
into an oven to brown. 

^3. Potato Chips — Ingredients — Boiling lard and salt. 

Peel a raw potato as apples are peeled, let the parings be as 
■early as possible the same thickness, and let them be as long 
^s possible. Dry them thoroughly in a cloth, put them in the 
frying basket, and plunge it into boiling hot lard. When the 
chips are a golden color drain them well in front of the fire, 
sprinkle fine salt over them. 

274. Potato Cake — Ingredients — Potatoes, flour and lard. 

Take cold mashed potatoes, and form into flat cakes, flour 
and fry in lard until they are a golden brown. 

275. Sweet Potatoes (Roast). 

Wash, wipe, and roast. Serve in their jackets. 

276. Sweet Potatoes (Boiled). 

Wash them, plunge in cold water, (no salt) boil till tender, 
drain, and put to dry for five minutes. Peel before serving. 

277. Sweet Potatoes (Fried)— Ingredients— Lard or dripping. 
Take cold boiled potatoes, slice and fry in dripping or lard 

uptil of a golden brown. 

278. Cabbage (Boiled)- Ingredients— To half a gallon of water a 

tablespoonful of salt, and a small piece of soda. 
Pick off the outside leaves, cut off as much of the stalk as 
possible, cut across the end of the stalk twice. Wash well in 



96 The Dominion Cook Book. 

cold water, drain and plunge into boiling water, in which the 
above proportions of salt and soda have been added ; boil with- 
out cover. Take up directly after they are done, drain, dish 
and serve. 

279. Cabbage (a la Cauliflower)— Ingredients— Butter, salt, 

}i a cup of cream. 

Cut the cabbage fine as for slaw ; put it into a stewpan, 
cover with water and keep closely covered ; when tenderj drain 
off the water ; put in a small piece of butter with a little salt, 
one half a cup of cream, or one cup of milk. Leave on the 
stove a few minutes before serving. 

280. Fare! (or Stufived cabbage)— Ingredients— Veal stuffing, 

slices of sausage meat, gravy. 

Cook the cabbage in salt and water sufficiently to open the 
leaves, and insert between them layers of ordinary veal stuffing, 
slices of sausage meat, then tie it securely round with thread 
to prevent the meat falling out. Replace in the stewpan, and 
cook briskly at first, then simmer till completely tender ; serve 
in the same manner as ragout — that is to say, with a little 
gravy poured over the whole. In winter roast chestnuts hidden 
in the center are sometimes added, when it is termed " Chou 
en surprise." 

281. En Ragout — Ingredients — Clarified fat, small pieces of b:icon or 

ham, pepper and salt, a little stock or water. 

Soak a fresh fair-sized cabbage for ten minutes in strong 
salt and water, then take it out and drain carefully ; put some 
clarified fat into a clean stewpan, and some small pieces of 
bacon or ham ; lay half the cabbage on the top (either whole- 
leaved or cut up into large pieces, whichever is preferable), 
some more fat, and pepper and salt to taste, remembering that 
the bacon or ham will add to the saltness ; place the other half 
of the cabbage on the top, and pour in a Uttle stock (water can 
be used in default of stock, but the latter is by far the best), 
just enough to cover the ingredients. Cook briskly at first, then 
withdraw to the side, and keep it simmering for a considerable 
time. When it is thoroughly done, pour off the liquid, and set 
aside. Place the cabbage in the center of a heated dish, as 
much raised as possible, and, having skimmed off the fat from 
the liquor, pour it over the vegetable, and serve. 



Vegetables. 97 



282. Marine — Ingredients — A large red cabbage, pepper, salt, wine- 
glass of white wine vinegar, and the same quantity of water, I oz. oi 
butter, brown gravy. 

Take a large red cabbage and cut it into four pieces, first 
taking away the outside leaves and hard piece of stem ; then 
take each piece separately and mince it into strips as fine as ver- 
micelli, commencing at the head of the piece and finishing at 
the stem end. Throw it all into boiling salt and water for ten 
minutes, drain, and place in a tureen or low-rimmed earthen 
jar. Season with pepper and salt, pour on a wine-glassful of 
white wine vinegar and the same quantity of water ; leave it 
for fully three hours, then press it well to extract the juice ; 
melt one ounce of butter in a stewpan, add the cabbage, and 
pour on some brown gravy. Cook very gently, indeed, until 
the vegetable is thoroughly done. There is a pleasant acid 
flavor about this entrde, which should be eaten after any rich 
sh, such as salmon, shad, or eels. 



I 



13. Red Cabbage (to Stew) — Ingredients— A small red cab- 
bage, pepper, salt, butter, 2 or 3 spoonfuls of vinegar. 

Slice a small, or half a large-red cabbage, wash and put it 
into a saucepan with pepper, salt, no water but what hangs 
about it, with a piece of butter. Stew till quite tender ; and 
when going to serve, add two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, 
and give one boil over the fire. Serve it for cold meat, or with 
sausages on it. 

284. Tomatoes (Stewed) — Ingredients — Tomatoes, gravy, cream, 

and arrowroot. 
Arrange them in a single layer and pour over them as much 
gravy as will cover half their height. Stew very gently until 
the under sides are done, then turn and finish them ; thicken 
the gravy with cream and arrowroot and serve it round them ; 
the tomatoes may have some forcemeat put in the center of 
each. 

285, Tomatoes (Baked) — Ingredients — ^ a doz. tomatoes, bread 

crumbs, pepper and salt, butter. 
Cut half a dozen tomatoes in halves, remove the pips, and 
fill the inside with a mkture of bread crumbs, pepper and salt 
in due proportions ; place a small piece of butter on each half 
tomatOj and lay them close together in a well buttered tin ; 
bake in a slow oven about half an hour, and serve. They may 
he eaten hot or cold. 



g$ The Dominion Cook Book. 

a86. Tomatoes (StufFed)— Ingredients — Tomatoes, shallot, butter, 
2 parts bread crumbs, i part ham, parsley, sweet herbs, pepper and 
salt to taste, toast. 

Dip some tomatoes in hot water, peel them, cut them in 
half, and remove the pips ; rub a baking sheet with shallot, 
butter it well, and lay the tomatoes in it, filling each half with 
the following composition : Two parts bread crumbs, one part 
ham finely minced, and, according to taste, parsley and sweet 
herbs also finely minced, and pepper and salt. Put a small 
piece of butter on each half tomato, and bake them a quarter 
of an hour ; have ready some round pieces of buttered toast, 
on each of these put a half tomato and serve. 

287. Tomatoes (with Macaroni) (l).— Ingredients— Small 

quantity of tomatoes, butter, pepper, salt, a bay leaf and some 
thyme, a few spoonfuls of either stock or gravy, macaroni. 

Take a quantity of tomatoes, cut them up, and remove from 
each the pips a«d watery substance it contains ; put them into 
a saucepan with a small piece of butter, pepper, salt, a bay 
leaf, and some thyme ; add a few spoonfuls of either stock or 
gravy ; keep stirring on the fire until they are reduced to a 
pulp, pass them through a hair sieve and dress the macaroni 
with this sauce and plenty of Parmesan cheese freshly grated. 

288. Tomatoes (with Macaroni) (2).— Ingredients— Toma- 

toes, clove of garlic, a few sprigs of thyme, maijpram, basil, parsley, 
whole pepper, salt to taste, and macaroni. 

Cut up a quantity of tomatoes, put them into a saucepan 
containing a little water, with a clove of garlic and a few sprigs 
of thyme, marjoram, basil, and parsley, with whole pepper and 
salt to taste. When quite done turn them out on a hair sieve 
and throw away the water that drains from them, then pass 
them through the sieve; warm the pulp thus obtained in a 
saucepan with the piece of butter, and use this sauce to dress 
the macaroni, as above. 

289 Tomatoes (au Gratin)— Ingredients— Tomatoes, garlic, butter, 
two parts bread crumbs, one part mushrooms, parsley, pepper and 
salt. 

Dip the tomatoes in hot water, and peel them ; cut them in 
half, and remove the pips ; rub a baking tin with garlic, butter 
it, lay the tomatoes in side by side, and fill one half with the 
following composition : Two parts bread crumbs, one part 
mushrooms finely minced, a httle parsley chopped fine ; pep- 



Vegetables. 99 



per and salt to taste ; put a small piece of butter on each. 
Bake for ten or fifteen minutes, and serve. 

290. Tomato Fritters — Ingredients — i qt. of stewed tomatoes, 

I egg, I small teaspoonful of soda, iiour, lard. 

Use one quart of stewed tomatoes, one egg, one small tea- 
spoonful of soda ; stir in flour enough to make a batter like 
that for griddle cakes. Have some lard, very hot, on the 
stove J drop the batter in, a spoonful at a time, and fry. 

291. Tonisltoes (Broiled) — Ingredients — Some large fresh tomatoes, 

butter, pepper, and salt, a small portion of sugar, an eggspoonful of 
made mustard. 

In buying tomatoes for broiling, be careful to select large 
and fresh ones. Eto not pare them. Slice in pieces about half 
an inch thick, and broil them for a few minutes upon a grid- 
iron ; while they are broiling prepare some hot butter in a cup, 
seasoning with pepper, salt, an eggspoonful of made mustard, 
and a little sugar ; when the tomatoes are finished dip each 
piece into this, and then dish (the dish must be hot). If any 
of the seasoning remains, heat to the point of boiling and pour 
over the dish ; serve immediately. This is a very nice dish if 
cooked well. 

292. Beet Roots. 

Beet roots rnake a very pleasant addition to winter salad, of 
which they may agreeably form a full half instead of being only 
used to ornament it. This root is cooling, and very whole- 
some. 

It is extremely good boiled, and sliced with a small quantity 
of onion; or stewed with whole onions, large or small, as 
follows : — 

Boil the beet tender with the skin on, slice it into a stewpan 
with a little broth, and a spoonful of vinegar ; simmer till the 
gravy is tinged with the color, then put it into a small dish, and 
make a round of the button onions, first boiled till tender, take 
off the skin just before serving, and inind they are quite hot 
and clear. 

Or roast three large onions, and peel off the outer skins till 
they look clear, and serve the beet-root strewed round them. 

If the beet root is in the least broken before dressed, it parts 
with its color, and looks ill. 



The Dominion Cook Book. 



293. Onions (Boiled). 

Skin them thoroughly. Put them to boil ; when they have 
boiled a few minutes, pour oif the water and add clean cold 
water, and then set them to boil again. Pour this away and 
add more cold water, when they may boil till done. This will 
make them white and clear; and very mild in flavor. After 
they are done, pour off all the water, and dress with a Little 
cream, salt, and pepper to taste. 

294. Spanish Onions (a la Grecque)— Ingredients— Onions, 

butter, salt, pepper. 

Peel off the very outer skins, cut off the pointed ends like a 
cigar, put them in a deep dish, and put a piece of butter and a 
little salt and pepper on the place where the point has been 
cut off, cover them with a plate or dish, and let them bake for 
not less than three hours. They will throw out a delicious 
gravy. 

295. Spanish Onions (Baked)— Ingredients— 4 or 5 Spanish 

onions, butter, salt and water. 

Salt a saucepanful of boiling water slightly, put the onions 
into this, leaving the skins on, and let them boil sharply for 
about an hour. When they are done, take them out, wipe 
them, and cover each in a piece of brown paper, bake in the 
oven for two hours. Add butter, pepper, and salt to taste, and 
serve in their skins. 

296. Spanish Onions (Stewed)— Ingredients— 5 or 6 medium- 

sized Spanish onions, I pt. of broth or gravy. 

In paring the onions be careful not to cut off too much of 
the tops and ends. Put them into a large saucepan (avoid 
placing one on top of another). Add the broth or gravy, 
and allow it to simmer gently until the onions are quite tender, 
then dish them, pour the gravy over them, and serve quickly. 

297. Onions (Burnt, for Gravies)— Ingredients— Half lb. of 

onions, i glass of water, 8 oz. of moist sugar, ^ pt. of vinegar. 

Peel and mince the onions finely, and put into an iron stew- 
pan, and add the water ; allow to boil seven minutes. Then 
put in the sugar, and allow to simmer until the mixture is 
nearly black and begins to smoke. Have ready the vinegar 
boiling hot, and strain the liquor slowly into it, stirring with a 
wooden spoon until it is thoroughly mixed ; set aside to cool, 
when ready, bottle for use. 



Vegetables. ioi 



298. Onions (StufFed) — Ingredients — Very large Spanish onions, 

cold fat pork or bacon, bread crumbs, pepper, salt, mace, 10 spoon- 
fuls of cream or milk, a well-beaten egg, butter, juice of half a 
lemon, browned flour, milk. 

Wash and skin very large Spanish onions. Lay in cold 
water an hour. Parboil in boiling water half an hour. Drain, 
and while hot extract their hearts, taking care not to break the 
outside layers. Chop the inside thus obtained very fine, with 
a httle cold fat pork or bacon. Add bread crumbs, pepper, 
salt, mace, and wet with a spoonful or two of cream (or milk in 
default of cream). Bind with a well-beaten egg, and work into 
a smooth paste. Stuff the onions with this ; put into a dripping 
pan with a very little hot water, and simmer in the oven for an 
hour, basting often with butter melted. When done, take the 
onions up carefully, and arrange the open ends upwards in a 
vegetable dish. Add to the gravy in the dripping pan the juice 
of half a lemon, four tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, and a 
little browned flour wet with cold milk. Boil up once, and 
pour over the onions. 

299. Mushrooms. 

The cook should be well acquainted with the different sorts 
of things called by this name by ignorant people, as the deaths 
of many persons liave been caused by carelessly using the poi- 
sonous kinds. The eatable mushrooms first appear very small 
and of a round form on a very small stalk. They grow very 
fast, and the upper part and stalk are white. As the size 
increases, the under part gradually opens and shows a fringy 
fur of a very fine salmon color, which continues more or less 
till the mushroom has been picked, when it turns to a brown. 
The skin can be more easily peeled from the real mushroom 
than from the poisonous kind. A good test is to sprinkle a little 
salt on the spongy part or gills of the sample to be tried ; if 
they turn black they are wholesome, if yellow they are poison- 
ous. Give the salt a little time to act, before you decide as to 
their quality. 

300. iMushrooms (Stewed) — Ingredients — Mushrooms, salt, butter 

and browned flour. 

Gather those that have red gills ; cut off that part of the 
stem which grew in the earth ; wash, and take the skin from 
the top ; put them in a stew-pan, with some salt j stew them 



The Dominion Cook Book. 



till tender ; thicken with a spoonful of butter and browned 
flour. 

301. Mushrooms (Broiled)— Ingredients— Mushrooms, salt, pep- 

per, butter. 

Prepare them as directed for stewing. Broil them on a 
griddle ; and when done, sprinkle salt and pepper on the gills, 
and put a little butter on them. 

302. Mushrooms (Baked)— Ingiedients—i8 or 20 mushroom- 

flaps, pepper and butter to taste. 

Pare the top and cut off part of the stalk, wipe them care- 
fully with a piece of flannel or cloth and a little fine salt. Then 
put them into a baking dish and put a piece of butter on ea^ 
mushroom. Sprinkle with pepper to taste and bake for twenty 
minutes or half an hour. When done serve on a hot dish with 
the gravy poured over the mushrooms. 

303. Mushrooms(a laCreme)— Ingredients— Mushrooms,butter, 

salt, nutmeg, a bunch of herbs, yolk of one egg, some good cream. 

Cutthe mushrooms into pieces, and toss them over a brisk fire 
in butter seasoned with salt, a very little nutmeg, and a bunch 
of herbs. When they are done enough, and the butter nearly 
all wasted away, take out the herbs, add the yolk of an egg 
beaten up in some good cream ; make very hot and serve. 

304. Mushrooms (Ragout of) — Ingredients — Mushrooms, 

melted lard or butter, salt, pepper, minced parsley, broth, a spoon- 
ful of cuUis, a squeeze of lemon juice. 

Skin and cut the mushrooms in slices, toss them in melted 
lard or butter, seasoned with salt, pepper, and minced parsley ; 
moisten with broth and a spoonful of cullis. Just before serv- 
ing add a squeeze of lemon juice. 

305. Mushrooms (Essence of)— Ingredients— Mushrooms, salt. 
Sprinkle a little salt over flap or button mushrooms. Allow 

them to stand three hours. Mash them, and the following 
day strain off the liquor that will flow from them. Put in 
a stewpan, and boil till it is reduced one half. It will not keep 
very long, but it is a delicate relish. 

306. Parsnips. 

Boil, mash, season with butter, pepper and salt, make into 
little cakes, roll in flour and brown hijiot lard. They are very 
nice cooked in this manner. 



Vegetables. 103 



307. Parsnips (American Fashion). 

Scrape and boil some parsnips, then cut each lengthwise in 
four, and fry them very brown, and dish in pairs. There is no 
vegetable so nourishing as parsnip, and when done in this way 
is very nutritious. 

308. Parsnips (Buttered)— Ingredients— Parsnips, butter, pepper, 

salt, chopped parsley. 

Boil the parsnips tender and scrape ; slice lengthwise. Put 
three tablespoonfuls of butter into a saucepan, with pepper, 
salt, and a little chopped parsley. When heated put in the 
parsnips. Shake and turn until mixture boils, then lay the 
parsnips in order upon a dish, and pour the butter over them, 
and serve. 

309. Parsnips (EVIashed) — Ingredients — Parsnips, 3 dessertspoon- 

fuls of cream, butter the size of an egg, pepper, salt. 

Boil and scrape the parsnips. Mash with potato beetle, 
remove the fibres, add the above ingredients, place in sauce- 
pan, heat to boiling, and serve in the form of a mound on a 
hot dish. 

310. Parsnips (Fried) — Ingredients — Parsnips, flour, dripping, pep- 

per. 

Boil until tender, scrape and cut into pieces (lengthwise), 
dip in flour and fry in boiling dripping, browning both sides. 
Drain, first on sieve, then on blotting paper, pepper to taste, 
and serve very hot. 

311. Parsnips (Fricasseed)— Ingredients— Parsnips, milk, 2 

spoonfuls of broth, a piece of mace, I half cupful of cream, butter, 
flour, pepper and salt. 

Scrape them ; boil in milk till they are soft ; then cut them 
lengthwise into pieces two or three inches long, and simmer in 
a white sauce, made of two spoonfuls of broth, a piece of mace, 
one-half cupful of cream, a piece of buttur, and some flour, 
pepper and salt. 

312. Cucumbers (to Dress)— Ingredients— Half a teacupful of 

vinegar, 3 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, pepper and salt. 

Pare and cut the cucumbers into slices as thin as a wafer (it 
is better to commence at the thick end). Place in a glass dish j 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and pour over the above propor- 
tions of oil and vinegar. This is a nice accompaniment to 
boiled salmon, and is useful in concocting a salad. It is also 
an excellent garnish for lobster salad. 



I04 The Dominion Cook Book. 

313. Cucumber (Stewed). — Ingredients — 3 large cucumbers, a 

little butter, half a pint of brown gravy, a little flour. 

Cut the cucumbers lengthwise, removing the seeds. Have 
the pieces a convenient size for the dish they are served in. 
Plunge them into boiling water with a little salt. Allow it to 
simmer for five minutes. Put the gravy into another sauce- 
pan, and when the cucumbers are done, remove from the water 
and place in the gravy, and allow to boil until they are tender. 
If there should be a bitter taste, add a teaspoonful of granu- 
lated sugar. Dish carefully, skim the sauce, and pour over the 
cucumbers. 

314. Cucumber (Fried) — Ingredients — Two nice cucumbers, pepper 

and salt, oil or butter. 

Pare cucumbers, cut into slices, press the slices upon a dry 
clean cloth ; dredge with flour ; have ready a pan of boiling oil 
or butter, put the slices into it, and keep turning them until 
they are brown ; remove them from pan and lay upon a sieve 
to drain. Serve on a hot dish, 

315. Cucumber (a la Maitre d'Hotel)— Ingredients— A nice 

straight cucumber, boiling water, a little salt, piece of butter size of 
an egg, bunch of parsley, some small onions, pepper. 

Peel a nice, straight cucumber, and cut it in four pieces 
lengthways ; scoop out all the seeds, and then cut it up again 
into small long pieces about a finger length ; throw these. into 
a saucepan of boiling water and some salt. When they bend 
under the touch they are done, and must be taken out and 
very carefully drained in a sieve j then put them into a stew- 
pan, with a good sized piece of butter, some finely chopped 
parsley, some onions, and salt and pepper to taste. The 
cucumber will not, however, require much salt, as the acid itself 
renders it salt tasting. Toss the pieces of vegetables well over 
a brisk fire until thoroughly heated through, and serve on a 
very hot dish. 

316. Cucumber (Fircis)— Ingredients— Cucumber, meat stuffing, a 

bunch of herbs, and some good stock, a little corn flour, butter the 
size of an egg. 

Cut off the tail ends of a short, thickly made cucumber, and 
scoop out the seeds with the end of a spoon, or marrow-spoon 
is best, then peel it very thinly ; prepare a good meat stuflfing, 
or even fish can be used as a forcemeat for a change, and fill 
the cucumber with it, replacing the ends originally cut off with 



Vegetables. 105 



the aid of little wooden skewers. Wrap round the vegetable 
with a thin linen cloth, and put it into a stewpan with a bou- 
quet of herbs and some good stock. Simmer over a clear fire 
until done, then reduce the liquid, thickening it with flour (a 
little corn flour is preferable) and butter. Serve in the gra\ 
thus made. 

317. Cucumber (a la Poulette)— Ingredients— Butter the size o< 

an egg rolled in flour, slices of cucumber, a little cream or stock, 2 
eggs, a few drops of vinegar. 

Put some floured butter (butter rolled in flour) into a stew- 
pan, with slices of cucumber dressed as for k la maitre d'hotel ; 
moisten with some good cream, or stock in default of cream. 
Toss the cucumber until well heated through, then take it off 
the fire, and add two yokes of eggs, and a few drops (to taste) 
of vinegar. 

318. Cucumber (Frits). 

Cut the cucumber (already cooked) into pieces about the 
length of your little finger, dry them very carefully in a cloth, 
and fry them in butter. They can also be dipped in a good 
batter, and then fried in the same way as salsify. Particular 
care must be taken to have the vegetable very dry, as the 
slightest moisture will prevent them frying crisp. 

319. Haricot Beans (1). — Ingredients— Half a pint of small wliite 

beans, enough cold water to cover them, J4 oz. of butter, teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley, a few slices of raw bacon. 

Soak half a pint of small white beans over -night in just 
enough water to cover them ; the next day, boil two hours, 
strain, and put into a pie dish with half an ounce of butter, a 
teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley previously fried, cover 
with slices of raw bacon, and bake a quarter of an hour. 

320. Haricot (2). — Ingredients— Beans, melted butter, 2 hard boiled 

eggs, fried parsley, a gill of millc, pepper salt, 3 drops of lemon juice. 

Soak and boil as before ; then stir into them some well-made 
melted butter, and garnished with hard-boiled eggs cut in 
halves and set on end on the top of the beans, with a little 
pyramid of fried parsley in the centre of the dish. The melted 
butter must be carefully made, with half an ounce of butter and 
the same of flour stirred together over the fire until they are 
well blended ; then add a gill of milk, pepper and salt, and 
three drops of lemon juice ; when this boils it is considered 
sufficiently cooked. An ordinary sized egg to be hard, should 



io6 The Dominion Cook Book. 

be boiled twelve minutes ; if less it will be soft in the centre, 
if more it will be overdone, and have a black line round it near 
the shell. 

321. Uima Beans— Ingredients— One qt. Lima beans, salt, pepper, 

butter, I qt. of milk. 

Take one quart of Lima beans, wash and soak them over 
night in cold water ; simmer over a slow fire four hours ; then 
add salt, pepper, butter (the size of an egg), and one quart of 
sweet milk ; boil for half an hour. 

322. Lima and Butter Beans — Ingredients — Beans, boiling 

water, a little salt and butter. 

Shell and place in cold water, allowing them to remain in 
the water half an hour ; then put into boihng water with a 
little salt and cook until tender ; drain, and butter and pepper 
them. 

323. French Beans — Ingredients — Beans, boiling water, butter the 

size of an egg, salt. 

Top, tail, and string the beans carefully ; cut in pieces 
about an inch long ; lay in cold salt and water for a quarter of 
an hour ; drain and plunge into saucepan of boiling water and 
boil until tender ; drain in a cullender ; dish with the above 
proportion of butter stirred in. 

324. French Beans (to Preserve). 

Get the beans, some salt, and any kind of salting tub or 
earthenware pan ; put in a layer of beans, a layer of salt, and so 
on till full. When wishing to use, soak forty-eight hours ; cut 
and boil till cooked. The water must be changed several times 
in which they soak. They will be of an excellent color and 
flavor. 

325. Turnips (boiled) — Ingredients — Turnips, boiling water, pepper, 

salt, a teaspoonfiil of sugar, a tablespoonful of butter. 

Pare and cut in pieces ; put them into boiling water well 
salted, and boil until tender ; drain thoroughly and then mash 
and add a piece of butter, pepper and salt to taste, and a small 
teaspoonful of sugar ; stir until they are thoroughly mixed, and 
serve hot. 

326. Turnips (German recipe for cooking) — Ingredients 

— Half a dozen large turnips, 3 oz. of butter, y^ pint weak stock, 
I tablespoonful of flour, pepper and salt. 

Heat the butter in a stewpan, pare and cut the turnips into 



Vegetables. 107 



pieces the size of dice and season with pepper and salt ; then 
place in the hot butter, toss over the fire for five minutes, add 
the stock and simmer gently until the turnips are tender. 
Brown the flour with a. little butter ; add this to the turnips 
and simmer five minutes. Boiled mutton may be served with 
this dish. 

327. Turnips (a la Oreme)— Ingredients— One oz. of butter, a 

dessertspoonful of flour, pepper and salt, grated nutmeg, a little 
milk or cream. 

Take small new turnips, peel and boil them in salted water ; 
drain them thoroughly. Melt one ounce of butter in a sauce- 
pan, add to it a dessertspoonful of flour, pepper, salt, grated 
nutmeg, and a small quantity of milk or cream ; put in the 
turnips ; simmer gently a few minutes, and serve. 

328. Turnips (a la de IVIaitre)— Ingredients — Small new turnips, 

a little butter, chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and a squeeze of 
lemon. 

Boil some small new turnips as in the preceding recipe ; 
drain them thoroughly, and melt some butter in the saucepan ; 
put the turnips in, give them a toss or two, add a little chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt, a squeeze of lemon juice, and serve. 

329. Carrots (to Boil) — Ingredients— 6 young carrots, a tablespoon- 

ful of salt. 

Place upon the stove two quarts of warm water with the 
above proportion of salt, bring to a boil ; wash and scrape the 
carrots, remove any black specks, cut in halves, plunge into the 
boiling water, and boil until tender ; drain, and serve upon a 
hot dish. 

330. Turnips (Stewed)— Ingredients— Carrots, a little weak broth, 

salt, butter, a dessertspoonful of flour, pepper. 

Wash and scrape the carrots ; split the largest. Then whiten 
them in hot water, and drain them on a sieve ; then boil them 
in weak broth, with salt ; then put some butter in a saucepan, 
with a dessertspoonful of flour ; stir it and brown it. Add the 
carrots to it, broth and pepper. Stir, and let all simmer 
together. 

331. Garottes (Glacees) — Ingredients — Carrots, butter, white 

powdered sugar, a little stock. 

Trim up to resemble little pears in shape some new red car- 
rots, and soak for a few minutes in water. Then fry in butter 



io8 The Dominion Cook Book. 

with the addition of some white powdered sugar and' a little 
good stock. When the pieces are sufificiently cooked increase 
the heat of the fire, so that evaporation goes on rapidly ; let 
the carrots glaze, and then serve. 

332. Salsify (Boiled). — Salsify, vinegar, water, butter, lemon juice, 

parsley, salt. 

Scrape the roots, cut them in short lengths, and throw them 
into vinegar and water as they are being done. Boil them 
till tender in salted water, then drain, toss them into a sauce- 
pan with a piece of butter, a little lemon juice, and some minced 
parsley ; add salt and serve. 

333. Egg Plant (Baked)— Ingredients— Egg plant, salt, a cup of 

crumbs, 2 oz. of salt pork, an onion, pepper, nutmeg, butter. 

Parboil fifteen minutes. Then make a triangular cut in the 
top ; remove the piece and take out the seeds. Let it lie for 
an hour in water to which a tablespoonful of salt has been 
added. Make a stuffing of one cup of crumbs, two ounces of 
salt pork, and an onion chopped fine, one teaspoonful of salt, 
half a one of pepper and of nutmeg mixed : wet with half a cup 
of boiling water or stock, and fill the egg plant, tying a string 
around it to keep the piece in place. Bake an hour, basting 
often with a spoonful of butter in a cup of water. 

334. Vegetable Marrow (Stewed)— Ingredients— l marrow, I 

onion, a piece of butter, pepper, salt, nutmeg, parsley, a little stock. 

Chop up half an onion very small, and put it in a saucepan 
with a piece of butter ; when it begins to color put in the veg- 
etable marrow (cut in slices), add pepper, salt, and grated nut- 
meg ; moisten with stock, and stew till done, adding some 
finely minced parsley just before serving. 

33S- Vegetable Marrow (Fried)— Ingredients— i marrow, a 
little salt, flour, dripping or lard. 

Having peeled and removed the seeds of a good-sized vege- 
table marrow, cut it in strips one and a half inches long by 
three-quarter inches square; put these on an inverted plate 
placed in a basin, and strew plenty of finely powdered salt over 
them. In a couple of hours take up the pieces of marrow and 
dry them in a cloth by wringing it at both ends, not so hard, 
however, as to break them ; then put them in another cloth 
with some flour and shake them well, so that they are individ- 
ually well covered with flour ; lastly, put them in a frying basket 



Vegetab^-e. log 



and plunge this in very hot fat ; as soon as the marrow strips 
begin to color, lay them, sprinkled with salt, in front of the fire 
to drain, and serve hot. 

336- Vegetable Marrow (Boiled)— Ingredients— Allow I table' 
poonful of salt to yi gallon of water, marrow. 

Having prepared the water as above bring to the point of 
boiling ; peel the marrow and plunge into the boiling water, 
and boil until tender ; remove from the water with a slice, halve, 
and should it be very large quarter it. Dish on toast, and 
send to table accompanied with a tureen of melted butter. 

337. Green Corn (Stewed). 

Having cut the corn from the cob, put into boiling water and 
allow to stew a quarter of an hour ; remove nearly all the water 
and cover with milk, and allow to stew until tender ; before 
dishing, roll some pieces of butter in flour and mix with the 
corn, adding a little pepper and salt ; give one boil and serve. 

338. Green Corn (Boiled). 

Strip off all the outer husks, allowing the innermost to re- 
main ; remove the silk and re cover the ear with the remaining 
husk, secure with a piece of thread, plunge into boiling salted 
water, and boil half an hour. Cut off stalks and dish upon a 
napkin. 

339. Green Corn (Roasted) — Ingredients — Corn, butter, salt, 

pepper. 

Open the husks, remove the silk, close the husks closely, and 
roast in the ashes of a wood fire until tender ; serve with butter, 
pepper, and salt. This is frequently eaten in camp. 

340. Summer Squashes — Ingredients— Squash, butter, pepper, 

salt. 

Pare the outer rind, remove the seeds, quarter, and lay in 
ice water ten minutes ; put into boiling water, a little salt, and 
cook until tender ; press all the water from them. Mash 
smooth, season with the above ingredients, and serve hot. 

341. Winter Squash. 

Proceed as above, allowing more time to cook ; oefore putt- 
ing into the boiling water, allow it to soak in cold water three 
hours. 

342. Cauliflower (Boiled) — Ingredients — Cauliflower, salt water. 
Wash in two or three waters. Cut off the endjDf stalk and 



no The Dominion Cook Book. 

outer leaves, allow to lie in salt and water five minutes, plunge 
into, boiling salted water, and boil fifteen or twenty minutes ; 
drain and serve hot. 

343. Cauliflower (Fried) — Ingredients— Cauliflower, salt, vinegar, 

whole pepper, a few cloves, butter, lard. 

Pick out all the green leaves from a cauliflower, and cut off 
the stalk close ; put it head downwards in a saucepan full of 
boiling salted water ; do not overboil it ; drain it on a sieve, 
pick it out into small sprigs, and place them in a deep dish 
with plenty of vinegar, whole pepper, salt, and a few cloves. 
When they have lain about an hour in this drain them, dip 
them in batter, and fry in hot lard to a golden color. 

344. Cauliflower (Scalloped)— Ingredients— Cauliflower, I oz. 

butter, }i gill of milk, i oz. bread-crumbs, cayenne, salt, I egg. 

Choose a cauliflower of medium size, boil it twenty minutes ; 
put into a saucepan one ounce of butter, half a gill of milk, and 
one ounce of bread crumbs ; add cayenne and salt to taste, and 
stir till the bread has absorbed the milk and butter. Beat an 
egg and add this to the sauce, but be sure that it does not sim- 
mer after the egg has been added. Butter a flat tin dish, take 
off the fine leaves of the cauliflower and place them all round 
on it, break up the flower carefully and lay it in the centre, 
making it as high as possible ; pour the sauce over this, sprinkle 
a few bread-crumbs on the top, and bake ten minutes. 

345. Green Peas (to keep). 

Shell, and put them into a kettle of water when it boils ; give 
them two or three warms only, and pour them into a cullender ; 
when the water drains off, turn them out on a table covered 
with cloth, and pour them on another cloth to dry perfectly ; 
then bottle them in wide-mouthed bottles ; leaving only room 
to pour clarified mutton-suet upon them an inch thick, and for 
the cork. Rosin it down, and keep it in the cellar or in the 
earth. When they are to be used, boil them till tender, with a 
piece of butter, a spoonful of sugar, and a little mint. 

346. Green Peas (to boil). 

When they are to be used, let them lie an hour in water ; then 
set them on with cold water and a piece of butter, and boil them 
till ready. Put a sprig of dried mint to boil with them. Boiled 
peas should not be overdone, nor in much water ; chop some 



Vegetables. hi 

scalded mint to garnish them, and stir a piece of butter in with 
them. 

347. Green Peas (Stevwed) — Ingredients— A quart of peas, i 

lettuce, I onion, butter, pepper, salt, i egg, a little flour. 

Put a quart of peas, a lettuce and an onion both sHced, a 
piece of butter, pepper, salt, and no more water than hangs 
round the lettuce from washing ; stew them two hours very 
gently. When to be served, beat up an egg, and stir it into 
them, or a little flour and butter. Some think a teaspoonful 
of white powdered sugar is an improvement. 

348. Green Peas (a la Francaise) — Ingredients — For every 

pint of peas I gill of water, i % oz. of butter, a bunch of parsley, 
salt, pepper, 8 or 9 small white onions, i lettuce. 

Put the required quantity of peas necessary for your dish 
into a perfectly clean and bright stewpan, with some water and 
butter in the following proportions : For every pint of peas one 
gill of water and one ounce of butter. When this is thoroughly 
amalgamated, add a little bouquet, tied together, of parsley, 
also salt, pepper, and another half ounce of butter, then 
eight or nine small white onions, and a whole lettuce. Simmer 
the whole well for an hour, or Jmore if the peas and other vege- 
tables are not completely tender. The time, in fact, must be 
regulated according to the judgment of the cook. When done, 
take out the bunch of parsley, the lettuce, and the onions, 
which are very serviceable for hashes, stews, or soups, even 
when used as above. The peas, when once cooked, must not 
be touched by a spoon or a fork, as it would bruise them and 
spoil the appearance of the entree, but well tossed constantly 
to prevent them sticking to the stewpan, always kept briskly 
simmering, but never boiling, otherwise they will harden. 

349. Asparag^US — Ingredients — Asparagus, salt, toast, butter. 
After scraping the stalks to cleanse them, place them in a 

vessel of cold water. Tie them up neatly into bundles of 
about twenty-five heads each, then place them in a sauc'epan 
of boiling water, sprinkling a handful of salt over it. When it 
is boiling remove any scum there may be ; the stalks will be 
tender when they are done ; they will take about twenty min- 
utes or half an hour; be careful to take them up the minute 
they are done ; have ready some toast, dip it in the liquor in 
which the asparagus was boiled ; dish upon toast, and serve 
with a boat of melted butter. 



112 The Dominion Cook Book. 



350. Asparagus (in Ambush)— Ingredients— 2 bunches of aspara- 

gus, 8 stale biscuits (or rolls may be used), 4 eggs, about yi pint of 
milk, butter the size of an egg, flour, pepper and salt to taste. 

Take the green tops of the two bunches of asparagus, boil 
them tender and mince finely. While they are boiling, take 
the biscuits or rolls, divide them, keeping the top half for a 
cover ; place them all in the oven to crisp ; make the milk 
hot, and then pour in the eggs beaten ; stir over the fire until 
it thickens, then add the butter rolled in flour, and lastly add 
the asparagus ; spread the rolls with this mixture, put on the 
tops and serve hot. 

351. Asparagus (and Eggs)— Ingredients— 26 or 30 heads of 

asparagus, good rich butter, salt and pepper, 5 or 6 eggs. 

Boil the asparagus (after cutting them into pieces of about 
half an inch) for fifteen minutes ; take a cup of rich butter and 
put it into a saucepan ; drain the asparagus, and put it with 
the butter ; heat then to a boil, seasoning with pepper and 
salt, and then pour into a buttered baking tin or dish ; break 
five or six eggs neatly over the surface of this, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt, and put it in the oven until the eggs are set 
nicely. Serve hot. 

352. Asparagus (Pudding) — Ingredients — Green tops of 2 

bunches of asparagus, 3 tablespoonfuls of prepared flour, 4 or J 
well-beaten eggs, 2 dessertspoonfiils of melted butter, I teacup of 
milk, a pinch of soda, pepper and salt to taste. 

Boil the asparagus and when cool chop finely ; take the eggs, 
butter, pepper and salt, and beat them up together, then put 
in the flour ; stir the soda into the milk, and add gradually ; 
lastly put in the asparagus. Put this into a buttered mould 
with a lid, or if it has no lid tie it down tightly with a floured 
cloth ; boil for two hours. When done, turn out on a dish, and 
pour melted butter round it. 

353. Artichokes (with White Sauce)— Ingredients— Salted 

water, % oz. butter, i tablespoonful of flour, white pepper and salt, 
the yolks of 2 eggs and the juice of a lemon. 

Wash them well, peel and shape them to a uniform size ; 
throw them into boiling salted water, and let them boil fifteen 
to twenty minutes ; drain them at once thoroughly ; put them 
on a dish and serve with the following sauce poured over 
them. Mix over the fire one and a half ounces of butter with 
a tablespoonful of flour ; add half a pint of boiling water, 



Vegetables. 113 

white pepper, and salt to taste ; stir till the sauce thickens, 
then take the saucepan off the fire and stir in the yolks of 
two eggs, beaten up with the juice of a lemon, and strained. 

354. Artichokes (with Cream) — Ingredients— The same in- 

gredients as above, adding a little cream and grated nutmeg. 

Prepare and parboil them as in the preceding recipe ; then 
put them into a saucepan with a due allowance of white sauce, 
and let them finish cooking in this, adding at the last a small 
quantity of cream and grated nutmeg. 

355. Artichokes (with Gravy) — Ingredients — As No 352, adding 

gravy. 

Prepare them as above, cutting them to the size of 
pigeons' eggs. Parboil them for ten minutes, drain them and 
toss them in a saucepan, with a piece of butter ; then add a 
small quantity of good clear gravy and a dust of pepper. Let 
them simmer very gently till wanted. 

356. Artichokes (Mashed)— Ingredients— Salted water, a piece of 

butter, a little cream, white pepper, nutmeg and salt. 

Wash, peel, and boil them in salted water ; drain and pass 
them through a hair sieve. Squeeze all the water out of the 
pulp ; put it into a saucepan, and work them on the fire, wkh a 
piece of butter and a little cream, adding white pepper, nut- 
meg and salt if necessary. When quite hot and sufficiently dry, 
serve. 

357. Artichokes (Fried)— Ingredients— A little flour, lard, butter. 
Wash, peel, and parboil them whole for ten minutes^ then 

cut them in strips the size of a little finger. Flour them care- 
fully, and fry in hot lard; or they may be dipped in batter 
and fried. Serve piled up on a napkin. 

358. Artichokes (au Gratin) — Ingredients— A shallot, baked 

bread crumbs, pepper, salt, powdered thyme, lemon juice, butter. 

Wash, peel, and boil them whole ; cut tbem in slices the 
thickness of a cent. Butter a dish previously rubbed with a 
shallot ; arrange the slices on it, strew over them some baked 
bread crumbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little powdered 
thyme, add a squeeze of lemon, put a few pieces of butter on the 
top, and bake for ten or fifteen minutes. 

359. Pumpkin (Stewed)— Ingredients— Pumpkin, butter, pepper 

and salt. 

Halve, remove the seed, pare and slice neatly. Soak for 
B 



114 The Dominion Cook Book. 

an hour in cold water ; then place in a saucepan of boiling 
water on the fire. Allow it to stew gently until it falls to pieces. 
Stir often. Then take it out, drain, squeeze, and rub through 
a cullender, then put it back in the saucepan adding two dessert- 
spoonfuls of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Stir quickly, and 
when nearly boiling dish, adding more pepper if required. 

360. Pumpkin (Baked)— Ingredients— A nicerich pumpkin, butter. 
Cut the pumpkin into quarters, remove seeds, cut into slices 
lengthwise about half an inch thick. Place in a baking dish 
suitable for the purpose and arrange in layers about three slices 
deep. Put a very little water in the bottom of the dish and 
bake very slowly until done (the water must have evaporated). 
It takes a long time to bake. Butter the slices on both sides 
and dish. It is eaten with bread and butter and tea. 




OBSERVATIONS OF SALADS. 

The following vegetables are commonly used in com- 
pounding salads : Beetroot, lettuce, cucumber, mint, parsley, 
radish, mustard and cress, onions, and celery. Any rem- 
nants of boiled fresh fish make very good salads ; they 
should be sliced and seasoned with anchovies, parsley, vinegar, 
etc. 

361. Salad — Ingredients— Four or five heads of cabbage lettuce, 4 

spoonfuls of olive oil, i^ or 2 tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, 
pepper and salt to taste, a small pinch of mint minced finely. 

Take four or five heads of cabbage lettuce, remove all out- 
side leaves, and cut ofif the stalks close ; then cut each head 
apart into four or five "quarters," that is, cut through the 
stalk and then tear the rest. Put four tablespoonfuls of olive 
oil into the salad bowl, with two and one half tablespoonfuls 
of tarragon vinegar, pepper and salt according to taste, and 
beat the mixture with a fork for some minutes ; then put in the 
lettuce, and keep it turning over swiftly for five minutes, 
adding a small pinch of mint, chopped as finely as possible. 

362. Lettuce SzilaiCl — Ingredients — Two heads of lettuce, yolks of 2 

hard boiled eggs, a teaspoonful of French mustard, pepper and salt 
to taste, 4 tablespoonfuls of oil, i of tarragon, and i of plain vinegar, 
chervil, garden cress and tarragon. 
Wash two heads of lettuce, dry them thoroughly, and break 
the leaves or cut them into convenient pieces. Put the yolks 
of two hard-boiled eggs into a basin with a teaspoonful of 
French mustard, pepper and salt to taste, and a tablespoonful 
of oil ; work the mixture into a smooth paste, and add conse- 
cutively three tablespoonfuls of oil, one of tarragon, and one 
of plain vinegar ; then a little chervil, garden cress, and tar- 
ragon finely chopped. Stir the mixture well, and lastly add 
the lettuce ; turn it or work it well. Garnish the top with hard- 
boiled eggs. 

IIS 



ii6 The Dominion Cook Book. 



363. Potato Salad (l)— Ingredients — Shallot, some cold boiled 

potatoes, 3 parts of oil to one part of tarragon vinegar, pepper and 
salt to taste, and a small quantity of any of the following : powdered 
sweet herbs, mint, parsley, chervil, tarragon or capers. 

Rub a dish with shallot ; dispose it on some cold boiled 
potatoes cut in slices ; beat together three parts of oil and one 
part, more or less according to the strength of it, of tarragon 
vinegar, with pepper and salt to taste. Pour this over the 
potatoes, and strew over all a small quantity of any of the 
following: powdered sweet herbs, mint, parsley, chervil, tar- 
ragon or capers, or a combination of them all, finely minced. 

364. Potato Saiad (2)— Ingredients — Cold boiled potatoes, anchovies, 

capers, tarragon or powdered sweet herbs, plain salad dressing as 
above, shallot, hard boiled eggs. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in small cubes. Bone and fillet a 
few anchovies and chop them up, take the same quantity of 
capers, mix all together with some finely minced tarragon or 
powdered sweet herbs, and a plain salad dressing as above. 
Put on a dish rubbed with shallot, and make a border round it 
oj pieces of hard-boiled eggs. 

365. Potato Salad (3) — Ingredien;ts — Five cold boiled potatoes, }i a 

small beetroot, ^ a Spanish onion, 3 inches of pickled cucumber, 
salad dressing as above, a. little English mustard, sweet powdered 
herbs, hard boiled eggs. 

Take four or five cold boiled potatoes, half a sihall beetroot, 
half a small Spanish onion plainly boiled, and about three 
inches of pickled cucumber. Cut them all in slices and 
arrange them on a dish. Pour over them a saLd dressing as 
above, adding a little English mustard to it, and strew powdered 
sweet herbs over. Serve with a border of hard-boiled eggs cut 
in slices. 

366. Salad (Lobstsr) — Ingredients — Lettuce, endives, beetroots, 

dressing, 4 tablespoonfuls of oil, 2 of vinegar, i teaspoonful of made 
mustard, yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, X of ^ teaspoonful of anchovy 
sauce, cayenne, salt, i hen lobster, 2 hard-boiled eggs. 

Clean thoroughly some lettuce, endives and beetroots, cut 
them up and mix them with the following dressing : four table- 
spoonfuls of oil, two ditto of vinegar, one teaspoonful of made 
mustard, the yolks of two eggs, half a teaspoonful of anchovy 
sauce, and cayenne and salt. Pick out from the shells the 
flesh of one hen lobster, cut into well-shaped pieces, put half 
in the salad and garnish with the rest, also with the whites of 



Salads. 117 

two hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, and the yolks mixed with 
the coral and rubbed through a sieve. 

367. Salad (Sardine) — Ingredients — 3 sardines for each person, 3 

eggs, I teaspoonful each of French mustard, and essence of ancho- 
vies, strained oil from a box of sardines, adding enough Lucca oil to 
make three tablespoonfuls in all. Chilli, shallot, and good malt vine- 
gar to taste, lettuce, mustard and cress, some red capsicum. 

Allow three sardines for each person ; bone and fillet these, 
carefiiUy removing all the skin, and set them aside until re- 
quired. Boil two eggs for three minutes ; shell them and 
break them up in your salad bowl with a spoon ; mix with 
them a teaspoonful each of French mustard and essence of 
anchovies, the strained oil from the tin of sardines with as much 
Lucca oil as will make three tablespoonfuls in all ; add Chilli, 
shallot, and good malt vinegar to taste (vinegar varies so much 
in acidity that it is difficult to specify the exact proportion). 
Cut up some nice crisp lettuce, and mix it well with the dress- 
ing, but only just before it is to be served. Put a little heap of 
mustard and cress in the centre of the salad, with a whole red 
capsicum upon it. Arrange the sardines round, and outside 
these a border of mustard and cress, dotted here and there with 
thin slices of red capsicums. 

368. Salad (Anchovy). 

The anchovies sold in bottles, ready filleted and preserved 
in oil, will be found most convenient for this. Make the salad 
as for sardines, only omitting the essence of anchovies. The 
eggs may be boiled hard, the yolks used for the dressing, and 
the whites cut in rings and filled with mustard and cress. 

369. Salad (Game) — Ingredients — Cold grouse, partridge or pheasant, 

pepper, salt, juice of a ^lemon, about 2 tablespoonfuls of fresh salad 
oil, lettuce, salad sauce, hard-boiled eggs, fillets of anchovies, sprigs 
of parsley. 

Cold grouse, partridge or pheasant may be used in this way. 
Cut them into joints, and put them into a pie dish ; season with 
salt and pepper, and pour over them the juice of a lemon and 
about two tablespoonfuls of very fresh salad oil ; let them re- 
main in this for three or four hours. Having cut up and well 
dried a fresh lettuce, place it on a flat dish and arrange the 
pieces of game which have been in the oil and lemon juice 
neatly in the centre ; over the game pour a salad sauce, which 
should be of the consistency of thick cream. Ornament the 



ii8 The Dominion Cook Book. 

top with slices of hard-boiled egg, fillets of well-washed and 
scraped anchovies, and garnish with tiny sprigs of parsley. 
Cold chicken, or the white meat from a cold turkey cut into 
small pieces, may be treated in this way. Cold salmon or tur- 
bot are also excellent. 

370. Salad (Egg) — Ingredients — Hard-boiled eggs, chopped parsley, 

pepper, salt, vinegar, and oil. 

Slice hard-boiled eggs, and dress them with chopped par- 
sley, salt, pepper, vinegar, and oil. They must, of course, be 
very cold before they are sliced. 

371. Salad (Beetroot) — Ingredients — Beets, vinegar, salt, pepper, 

sugar, mustard, I tablespoonful of oil to 4 of vinegar. 

Put the beets into a saucepan, and allow to boil until tender ; 
then scrape clean. Drop them into a pan of cold water for 
three or four minutes to cool them ; slice thinly and dress with 
the remaining ingredients. This salad will keep not more than 
two days. 

N.B. — This salad must be allowed to stand covered for two 
hours before serving. 

372. Salad (Celery) Ingredients — 2 heads of celery, i tablespoon- 

ful of salad oil, half a teacupful of vinegar, a. teaspoonful of granu- 
lated sugar, pepper and salt to taste. 

Well wash the celery, removing any unsightly parts, lay in 
iced water until wanted ; then cut into pieces about an inch in 
length. Season with remaining gredients, mix well and serve 
in salad bowls. 

373. Salad (Red Cabbage) — Ingredients — One small red cabbage, 

I small dessertspoonful of salt, ^ pint of vinegar, i^ dessertspoon- 
fuls oil, a little cayenne pepper. 

Secure a nice fresh cabbage, remove the outer leaves and 
cut the cabbage into nice thin slices, then mix in the above in- 
gredients and allow to stand for two days when it will be fit for 
use. This salad will keep good for several days. 

374. Salad (Oyster) — Ingredients — I tin of oysters containing about 

a quart, l head of celery, i tablespoonful of oil, I small teaspoonful 
of salt, made mustard and pepper, 3 dessertspoonfuls of cider vine- 
gar, a pinch of white sugar. 

Strain off the liquor from the oysters and cut them up (do 
not chop them), mince the celery and blend with the oysters. 
Mix the remaining ingredients, putting in the vinegar last, then 
pour over the celery and oysters. Stir well, and serve directly, 
as this salad will not keep long. 



iti 



'i i=iCK:r^E:s 



OBSERVATIONS ON PICKLES. 

Enamelled kettles should always be used in preference to 
those of brass or copper, as the verdigris produced by the vine- 
gar on these metals is extremely poisonous. For some pickles 
use cold vinegar, as in boiling most of the strength is lost by 
evaporation. For French beans, brocoH, cauliflowers, gherkins, 
etc;, it is better to heat the vinegar, for which the following 
process is recommended : — Put the vinegar and spice in a jar, 
cover it tightly, let it simmer on the back of the stove. 
Shake occasionally. Pickles should never be put into 
glazed jars, as salt and vinegar penetrate the glaze, which is 
poisonous. 

Glass or stone jars are preferable to any other; a small 
piece of alum in each jar will make the pickles firm and crisp. 
One tablespoonful of sugar to each quart of vinegar will be 
found a very great improvement to all pickles. Always use the 
best cider or wine vinegar. 



375. Onions (i) — Ingredients — Onions, best white wine vinegar, alkpice 
and whole black pepper. 

In the month of September, choose the small white round 
onions, take off the brown skin, have ready a very nice tin stew- 
pan of boiling water, throw in as many onions as will cover the 
top ; as soon as they look clear on the outside, take them up as 
quickly as possible with a slice, aud lay them on a clean cloth, 
cover them close with another, and scald some more, and so 
on. Let them lie to be cold, then put them in a jar, or glass, 
or wide mouthed bottles, and pour over them the best white 
wine vinegar, just hot but not boiling. To each gallon of vine- 
gar add one ounce of allspice and one of black pepper. When 
cold, cover them. Should the outer skin shrivel, peel it off. 
They must look quite clear. 

IIQ 



The Dominion Cook Book. 



376. Onions (2) — Ingredients — Onions, vinegar, allspice, whole black 

pepper. 

To each quart of vinegar allow a dessertspoonful of allspice 
and one of whole black pepper ; take off the outer skin with 
the fingers, the next skin should be taken off with a plated or 
silver knife ; it may be found necessary to remove a third skin 
if the onions do not look ' perfectly clear. As the onions are 
prepared drop them into jars; then cover with cold vinegar, 
adding allspice and whole pepper as directed; cover -very 
tightly and in three weeks they will be ready for use. This is 
a most excellent recipe for onions. They should be eaten 
within six or seven months, as they will not be crisp after that 
time. 

377. Walnuts — Ingredients — Fifty walnuts (seasonable for pickling 

early in July). To each pint of vinegar allow i oz. df black pepper, 
half an ounce of allspice, and half an ounce of bruised ginger. 

Prick the walnuts -with a fork, arid put them in a brine 
(composed of one pound of salt, to each quart of water). Let 
them remain in this nine days, changing the brine three times. 
Put them in the sun until they turn black ; put them into jars 
allowing sufficient room to cover them with vinegar ; boil (or 
scald) vinegar and spices in the above ' proportions. Cover 
closely and keep dry. They can be used in six weeks. 

378. JumllO Pickles — Ingredients — Cabbage, salt, onions, pepper 

and celery seed, strong vinegar. 

Take a head of caljbage ; chop fine, sprinkle with salt ; let it 
remain thus for twelve hours ; then mix an onion finely minced 
with the cabbage ; drain through a cullender ; add a good 
quantity of pepper and celery seed. Put it in a jar and cover 
with vinegar. Ready for use in three days. 

379. Red Cabbage— Ingredients — Cabbage, beetroot, vinegar, spice. 
Slice it into a cullender, and sprinkle each layer with salt ; 

let it drain two days, then put it into a jar, and pour hot vinegar 
enough to cover, and put a few slices of red beetroot. Observe 
to choose the purple red cabbage. Those who like the flavor 
of spice will boil it with the vinegar. Cauliflower cut in 
branches, and thrown in after being salted, will looljiof a beauti- 
ful red. 

38a Mushrooms — Ingredients— Button mushrooms, pepper, mace, 
salt and vinegar. ^ 

Buttons must be rubbed with a bit of flannel and salt ; and 



Pickles. 121 

from the larger take out the red inside, for when they are black 
they will not do, being too old. Throw a little salt over, and 
put them into a stewpan with some mace and pepper ; as the 
liquor comes out, shake them well, and keep them over a gentle 
fire till all of it be dried into them again ; then put as much 
vinegar into the pan as will cover them, give it one warm, and 
turn all into a glass or stone jar. They will keep two years and 
are delicious. 

381. Lemons — Ingredients — Lemons, salt, vinegar, rape vinegar, 

Jamaica pepper and ginger, mustard seed, garlic. 

'They should be small, and with a thick rind ; rub them 
with a piece' of flannel ; then slit them half down in four 
quarters, but not through to the pulp ; fill the sUts with salt 
hard pressed in, set them upright in a pan for four or five days, 
until the salt melts ; turn them thrice a day in their own liquid, 
until tender; make enough pickle to cover them, of rape 
vinegar, the brine of the lemons, Jamaica pepper and ginger ; 
boil and skim it ; when cold, put it to the lemons, with two 
ounces of mustard seed, aod two cloves of garlic to six lemons. 
When the lemons are used, the pickle will be useful in fish or 
other sauces. ^ 

382. Cucumbers — Ingredients — Cucumbers, pepper, ginger, vinegar. 
Cut the cucumbers into slices about half an incTi thick ; 

sprinkle with salt, and let them remain twenty-four hours, then 
drain for seven hours. Pour the hot vinegar over them. Keep 
them in a warm place for a short time. Tie them down with 
bladder and you may use them in a few days. 

383. Picklilli — -Ingredients — Small cucumbers, button onions, small 

bunches of cauliflower, carrots, ginger, grapes, strips of horse radish, 
radishes, bean pods, cayenne pods, 4 quarts of white wine vinegar, 
4 tablespoonfiils of salt, mustard and flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of ground 
ginger, pepper, allspice and turmeric. 

The brine for this pickle is made by putting a pint of rock 
salt into a pail of boiling water. Put the vegetables for pickling 
into a brine and cover tightly to prevent the steam escaping. 
Allow them to stand a night and a day. Change the brine a 
second time and allow them to remain the same length of time. 
The second brine may be used a second time if skimmed and 
scalded. Choose pickles from the brine of an equal size and 
of various colors. Great taste may be displayed in the arrange- 
ment of the pickles when putting them in bottles. To four 



122 The Dominion Cook Book. 

quarts of white wine vinegar add the spices. Simmer these 
together (the mustard an,d turmeric must be blended together 
with a little vinegar before they are added to the liquor) ; when 
the liquor is on the point of boiling, pour into a vessel ; cover 
tightly. When sufficiently cold pour into the bottles containing 
the pickle, and make air tight. It will be ready for use in five 
or six months. 

384. Eggs — Ingredients — 32 eggs, 2 quarts of vinegar, I oz. of black 

pepper, 1 oz. of Jamaica pepper, i oz. of ginger. 

Boil the eggs hard (ten or twelve minutes would be sufficient 
time). Dip them in a pan of cold water for a minute to pre- 
vent them turning black, and remove the shells. Allow the 
remaining ingredients to simmer gently in a saucepan for ten 
minutes or a quarter of an hour. Put the eggs into your pick- 
ling jar and pour over the boiling vinegar, pepper and ginger. 
Let them stand till cold and make air tight. Ready for use 
from a month to six weeks. 

385. Beets — Ingredients — Vinegar, beets, 2 oz. of whole pepper, 2 or. 

of allspice to every gallon of vinegar. 

Carefully remove all" dirt from the beats. Let them simmer 
in boiling water for one hour and a ha]/, then take them out 
and leave to cool. Boil the remaining ingredients for ten or 
' fifteen minutes and leave to cool. When cold pour it over the 
beets (which you have previously pared and cut into thin slices). 
Make air-tight and they will be ready for eating in a week or 
ten days. 



J EGGS p 

OBSERVATIONS ON EGGS. 

As a rule the quality of eggs largely depends upon the 
food given to the hen. The eggs of the common hen or barn 
door fowl are esteemed most delicate when new laid, and for 
invalids they are exceedingly nutritious beaten up raw. The 
white of the egg, from its tendency to coagulate into a hard and 
indigestible substance, is likely to disa^ee with some invalids 
when the yolk may prove perfectly harmless. About one-third 
of the entire weight of any egg may be regarded as nitrogenous 
and nutritious matter ; a greater proportion than that of meat, 
which is rated at only from twenty-five to twenty-eight per 
cent. The lightest way of cooking them is by poaching. It 
is a good plan in testing new laid eggs to apply the tongue to 
the large end of the e^, and if perfectly fresh will feel warm, 
or they can be held to the light and if perfectly clear will be 
good ; or try them in water — the freshest will sink first. Always 
keep them in a cool place. 

It is said that covering eggs with a solution of beeswax in 
warm olive oil (one-third of beeswax, two-thirds of. olive oil) 
will keep them fresh for two years. 

The following recipe has been used by an old housekeeper 
for about fourteen years, and has never been known to fail : 
To five quarts of water put one pound of salt, and one ounce 
of saltpetre ; boil them ten minutes, and when nearly cold add 
sour spoonfuls of unslacked lime. Let this stand two days, 
(tirring it very frequently, then put your eggs into a pipkin 
I.e., a large earthen jar with straight sides, about a foot or more 
deep), the narrow end of the egg downwards, and pour the 
mixture over when it is clear. 



386. Poached Eggs (on Toast) — Ingredients— Two or more 
eggs, salt, vinegar, peppercorns, leaves of parsley, hot buttered 
toast. 
If the eggs are not new laid, they will not poach well Fill 
123 



124 The Dominion Cook Book. 

a shallow saucepan with water slightly salted, add a little 
vinegar, a few peppercorns, and some leaves of parsley. When 
the water is on the point of boiling (it should never be allowed 
to boil) break two or more eggs into it (according to the size of 
the pan), and put on the cover ; when done, take them out care- 
fully, brush them clean on both sides with a paste brush, and 
cut each egg with a round fluted paste cutter, so as to get 
them of a uniform shape, lay them on slices of hot buttered 
toast, and serve. 

386. Poached Eggs (on Ham toast)— Ingredients— Buttered 

toast, grated ham, poached eggs. 

Make some buttered toast, and cut it in pieces of uniform 
shape, spread over them a small quantity of grated ham, then 
put a poached egg on each piece of toast, and serve hot. 

387. Poached Eggs (and Spinach) — Ingredients— Poached 

eggs, 2 or 3 lbs. of spinach, butter, a pinch of flour, pepper and salt 
to taste, milk, fried sippets. 

Poach the eggs as above, and serve on a pur^e made as fol- 
lows : Pick and wash perfectly clean two or three pounds of 
spinach, put it into a* saucepan with a little water, and let it 
boil till quite done, turn it out on a hair sieve to drain, squeeze 
the water out, and pass the spinach through the sieve. Put a 
good lump of butter into a saucepan, fry it a light brown, add 
a pinch of flour, mix well, put in the spinach, pepper and salt 
to taste, and a little milk, stir well, dispose the spinach on a 
dish, laying the poached eggs on the top of it, and a border of 
fried sippets round it. 

388. Poached Eggs (and Minced OhiClcen)— Ingredients- 

Remnants of fowl, equal quantity of ham or tongue, truffles or 
mushrooms, butter, a pinch of flour, white pepper, salt, and 
powdered spices, white stock, yolk of an egg, juice of half a lemon, 
bread, sippets, poached eggs. 

Take some remnants of fowl, free from skin, etc., mince 
them with an equal quantity of ham or tongue, as well as a 
small quantity of truffles or mushrooms, all finely minced ; toss 
the whole in a saucepan with a good sized piece of butter mixed 
with a pinch of flour, add white pepper, salt, and powdered 
spices to taste, and moisten with a little white stock ; lastly, 
stir in, off' the fire, the yolk of an egg beaten up with the juice 
of half a lemon and strained ; serve within a border of bread 
sippets fried in butter, and dispose the poached eggs on the 
top. 



Eggs. 125 

389. Poached Eggs (on a Puree of Game)— Ingredients- 

Carcasses of roast game, ^ an onion, a carrot, a bay-leaf, a small 
piece of celery, a couple of cloves, a little mace, some whole pepper, 
a large pinch of salt, common stock, ^ lb. lean beef, butter, poach- 
ed eggs, fried sippets. 

Take any carcasses of roast game — say three snipe or two 
partridges — cut them up into convenient pieces, and pack them 
into a saucepan with half an onion, a carrot, a bay leaf, a small 
piece of celery, a couple of cloves, a little piece of mace, some 
whole pepper, and a large pinch of salt ; pour in just enough 
common stock to cover the contents ; let the whole boil for a 
couple of hours, strain the liquid and put it by ; take half a 
pound of lean beef, chop it up and pound it in a mortar with 
all the flesh that can be picked out of the pieces of game, then 
pass the whole through a sieve, moistening now and then with 
some of the liquor ; lastly, heat the purde, correct the flavoring 
if necessary, stir in a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut, 
and serve with fried sippets round and poached eggs on the top. 

390. Eggs (au Grata n) — Ingredients— Hard-boiled eggs, butter, 

grated Parmesan cheese, black pepper, powdered nutmeg, baked 
bread crumbs. 

Cut some hard-boiled eggs in slices, and lay them on a well- 
buttered dish, with grated Parmesan cheese, black pepper, and 
the least bit of powdered nutmeg ; sprinkle some baked bread 
crumbs over all, put the dish into the oven, and serve as the 
contents begin to color. 

391. Eggs (Stewed) — Ingredients — Spanish onions, butter, flour, 

cream or milk, pepper and salt to taste, grated nutmeg, hard-boiled 
ggs, bread sippets. 

Cut some Spanish onions in slices, and fry them in plenty 
of butter till they are quite done without taking color, add a 
small quantity of flour, and when this is amalgamated with the 
butter, moisten with a due quantity of cream, or simply milk, 
then add some pepper and salt to taste, a little grated nutmeg, 
and a quantity — equal in bulk to the onions — of hard-boiled 
eggs cut in slices. Let the whole simmer gently till quite hot, 
and serve with bread sippets fried in butter. 

392. Eggs (a la Soubise)— Ingredients— Onions, milk, pepper, 

salt, nutmeg, butter, flour, cream or milk, hard-boiled eggs. 

Boil some onions in milk with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; 
when quite done pass them through a sieve. Put some butter 



126 The Dominion Cook Book. 

into a saucepan with a little flour, when the butter is melted 
and well mixed with the flour, put in the onion pulp, and add 
either milk or cream until the sauce is of the proper consist- 
ence, then add hard-boiled eggs cut in half, and as soon as they 
are quite hot serve. 

393- Eggs (a la Maitre D'Hotel)— Ingredients— Hard-boiled 
eggs, butter, pepper, salt, minced parsley, lemon juice. 

Cut some hard-boiled eggs in half, toss .them in butter till 
quite hot, add pepper, salt, minced parsley, and a little lemon 
juice, and serve. 

394. EgrgS (Kwith Spinach)— Ingredients— Eggs, sippets of bread, 

butter, spinach, salt, a tablespoonful of flour, pepper and salt to taste, 
cold stock. 

Boil a number of eggs in their shells for three or four min- 
utes, then dip them into cold water, carefully removing the shells, 
and place them again in hot water to make them quite hot ; 
drain,' and serve them on the following puree with sippets of 
bread fried in butter round the dish : Pick and wash a quantity 
of spinach, put it into a saucepan with a little water and some 
salt, when thoroughly done drain off all the moisture and pass 
the spinach through a sieve. Amalgamate a piece of butter 
and a tablespoonful of flour in a saucepan on the fire, put in 
the spinach and stir well for some minutes, then add pepper 
and salt to taste, and the yolk of one egg beaten up with a 
little cold stock and strained. 

395. Buttered Eggs— Ingredients— Four eggs, 2 "oz. of butter, 2 

tablespoonfuls of cream, a little grated tongue, pepper and salt to 
taste, pieces of buttered toast. 

Break four eggs into a basin, and beat them well ; put two 
ounces of butter and two tablespoonfuls of cream into a sauce- 
pan ; add a little grated tongue, pepper and salt to taste, when 
quite hot add the eggs, stir till nearly set, then spread the 
mixture on pieces of buttered toast and serve. 

396. Fried Eggs (l)— Ingredients— Butter, eggs, pepper, salt. 

Melt a piece of butter in a small frying pan, break two eggs 
in it carefully so as not to break the yolks ; when nearly set, 
trim the edges of the whites and slip them out on a hot dish, 
pour the butter over them, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
serve. 



Eggs. 127 

397. Fried Eggs (2) — Oil, dripping or lard, eggs. 

Put a good allowance of either oil, dripping, or lard in a 
frying pan ; when quite hot break an egg into it, and as soon 
as the white begins to set turn it over dexterously with the slice, 
so as completely to cover the yolk. The eggs must be fried 
one by one, and as one is done it must be carefully taken up 
and laid in front of the fire to drain and keep hot. 

398. Fried Eggs (with Blacic Butter)— Ingredients— Butter, 

eggs, tarragon vinegar, minced parsley, salt and pepper. 

Fry them in butter as above, leave the butter in the frying 
pan over the fire till it is nearly black, add a few drops of tar- 
ragon vinegar, some minced parsley, a little salt and pepper. 
Pour over the eggs and serve. 

399. Fried Eggs (Vlfith Tomatoes)— Ingredients— Butter, French 

tomato sauce, pepper and salt to taste, fried eggs. , 

Melt a small piece of butter in a saucepan, put to it a small 
quantity of French tomato sauce, add pepper and salt to taste, 
and when quite hot turn it out on a dish, disposing on it the 
eggs fried in butter. 

400. Fried Eggs (with Bacon)— Ingredients— Thin slices of 

streaky bacon, fried eggs. 

Cut some thin slices of streaky bacon, cut oif the rind and 
trim them ; put them into a frying pan on the fire, and turn 
them often until quite hot, then roll up each slice, make a 
border of them round the fried eggs in the dish. 

401. Fried Eggs (with Ham)— Ingredients— A slice of ham, fried 



Trim a slice of ham, and either grill it on a clear fire or 
toast it in front of it. Serve with the fried eggs on it. 

402. Scrambled Eggs — Ingredients — Four eggs, salt and pepper to 

taste, I oz. of butter, finely minced parsley. 

Beat up four eggs, with salt and pepper to taste ; put an 
ounce of butter into a saucepan, directly it is melted put it in 
the eggs, and keep constantly stirring with a spoon until they 
are nearly set, adding at the last a little finely-minced parsley. 

403. Scrambled Eggs (with Asparagus)— Ingredients- 

Asparagus points, salted water, butter, scrambled eggs. 

Parboil in salted water some asparagus points, cut the size of 
peas, drain them and toss them in a little butter till quite hot. 



128 The Dominion Cook Book. 

Scramble some eggs as in the preceding recipe, and when nearly 
set add the asparagus points instead of the parsley. 

404. Scrambled Eggs (with Tomatoes)— Ingredients— 4 

eggs, I tablespoonful of French tomato, sauce, or i large tomato 
scrambled eggs. 

Beat up four eggs with a tablespoonful of French tomato 
;sauce, or one large tomato, peeled, freed from pips, and chopped 
:small, and proceed as above. 

405. Scrambled Eggs (with Onions) — Ingredients— 2 slices 

of Spanish onion, butter, 4 eggs, pepper and salt to taste. 

Take two slices of Spanish onion, and chop them coarsely ; 
put them into a saucepan with plenty of butter, and when they 
are thoroughly cooked, without having taken any color, throw 
in four eggs beaten together with pepper and salt to taste ; keep 
on stirring till the eggs are nearly set, and then serve. N.B. — 
Equal parts of tomotoes and onions may be cooked together, 
and then the eggs added. 

406. Scrambled Eggs (with Fish)— Ingredients— Remnants of 

fish, 4 eggs, pepper and salt to taste, finely minced parsley. 

Pick out the meat of any remnants of fish, such as salmon, 
turbot, cod, haddock, or whiting, and with a silver fork- break 
it up small ; take two tablespoonfuls of this and four eggs ; 
beat the whole together with a little pepper and salt to taste, 
and a little parsley finely minced, then proceed as in No. 402. 

407. Scrambled Eggs (with Ham)— Ingredients— A tablespoon- 

ful of grated ham, 4 eggs, pepper to taste, butter. 

Beat up a tablespoonful of grated ham with four eggs, and 
pepper to taste ; put them into a saucepan with a piece of 
butter, and stir till nearly set. 

408. Scrambled Eggs (with Cheese)— Ingredients— 4 eggs, 3 

tablespoonfuls of Parmesan cheese, a sprinkling of pepper. 

Put four eggs and three tablespoonfuls of Parmesan cheese 
into a basin with a sprinkling of pepper ; beat all together, and 
proceed as in the first recipe, No. 402, omitting the parsley. 

409. Scrambled Eggs (on Toast). 

Any of the above may be served on slices of buttered toast, 
but if so served they must be even less set, at the time of 
serving, than when served plain ; or neat bread sippets, fried in 
butter, may be served round them. 



Eggs. 129 

410. Sippets(Friecl)— Ingredients— A loaf of bread, butter. 

Cut out of a loaf slices from a quarter to three eighths of an 
inch thick, shape them into triangles or arrowheads all of an 
size ; put some butter in a frying pan, and when quite hot lay 
the sippets in it ; turn them frequently, adding more butter, as 
it is wanted, and taking care that they are all fried to the same 
golden color. A readier way, but producing not so nice a 
sippet, is to lay the pieces of bread in the frying basket, and 
dip it in a saucepan full of boiling fat. They must afterwards 
be laid in front of the fire to drain. 

411. Omelet (Plain) — Ingredients — 3 or 4 eggs, I dessertspoonful of 

finely minced parsley, pepper and salt to taste, butter size of an egg. 

Beat up three or four eggs with one dessertspoonful of par- 
sley very finely minced, and pepper and ealt to taste ; put a 
piece of butter, the size of an egg, into a frying pan, as soon as 
it is melted pour in the omelet mixture, and, holding the 
handle of the pan with one hand, stir the omelet with the other 
by means of a spoon. The moment it begins to set cease stir- 
ring, but keep on shaking the pan for a minute or so ; then 
with the spoon double up the omelet and keep shaking the 
pan until the under side of the omelet has become of a golden 
color. Turn it out on a hot dish and serve. 

412. Omelet (Ham or Bacon)— Ingredients— 3 or 4 eggs, I heaped 

tablespoonful of ham or bacon, pepper to taste. 

Beat up three or four eggs with a heaped tablespoonful of 
ham or bacon, half lean and half fat, cut up to the size of very 
small dice; add pepper to taste, and salt if necessary, and 
proceed as above. 

413. Omelet (Cheese) — Imgredients — 3 eggs, I or 2 tablespoon- 

fills of Parmesan cheese. 

Beat up three eggs with one or two tablespoonfuls of grated 
Pannesan cheese. Cook as above, and serve with some more 
grated cheese strewn over the omelet. 

414. Omelet (Tomato, i) — Ingredients — Plain omelet mixture, 

tomato sauce. 

Add to a plain omelet mixture a small quantity of tomato 
sauce, mix well, then finish in the usual way. 

415. Omelet (TomatOi 2) — Ingredients — Equal parts of sliced onions 

and tomatoes ; butter, pepper and salt, plain omelet. 

Take equal parts of sliced onions and tomatoes peeled aow 
9 



330 The Dominion Cook Book. 

freed from pips, chop them both coarsely. Fry the onions in 
butter. When cooked, without being colored, add the toma- 
toes, with pepper and salt, and keep stirring the mixture on the 
fire till it forms a sort of purde. Make a plain omelet, and 
insert this in the fold on dishing it. 

416. Omelet (Tomato 3) — Ingredients— Tomato sauce, potato flour, 

butter, pepper and salt to taste, savory or plain omelet. 

Take a little tomato sauce, add to it a little potato flour 
dissolved in water, then put it into a saucepan with a piece of 
butter, and pepper and salt to taste. When quite hot and 
thickened turn it out on a dish, and on it place a savory or a 
plain omelet. There must not be too much sauce on the dish. 

417. Omelet (Mushroom) — Ingredients — Button mushrooms, white 

or brown sauce. (See Sauces). 

Parboil a small quantity of button mushrooms, slice them 
small, and stew them just long enough to cook them in a small 
quantity of either white or brown sauce ; then use as in preced- 
ing recipe. 

418. Omelet (Fish) -Ingredients — 3 eggs, remnants of cold fish, 

minced parsley, pepper and salt to taste. 

Beat up three eggs with a quantity equal in bulk to one egg 
of the remnants of any cold fish (salmon or turbot), finely 
shredded with a fork, a pinch of minced parsley, pepper and 
salt to taste. 

419. Omelet (Oyster) — Ingredients — Oysters, butter, pinch of flour, 

cream, sa t, pepper, nutmeg, least bit of cayenne, finely minced 
parsley, yolk of an egg, juice of ^ a lemon, plain omelet. 

Parboil some oysters in their own liquor, remove the beards, 
cut each oyster in four or six pieces ; melt a piece of butter in 
a saucepan, add to it a pinch of flour, the liquor of the oysters ; 
a little cream, salt, pepper, nutmeg, the least bit of cayenne, 
and some finely-minced parsley ; put in the oysters, and toss 
them in this sauce just long enough to make them quite hot ; 
stir into this off the fire the yolk of an egg beaten up with juice 
of half a lemon, and strained. Insert this in the fold of a plain 
ome'et, or serve it round the omelet. 

420. Bsss (to Keep Fresh tor Several Weeks). 

Fill a saucepan with three or four quarts of boiling water. 
Put two dozen eggs into a cabbage or onion net and hold them 
:'.'> the boiling water for twenty seconds. Continue this opera- 



Eggs. 131 

tion until you have as many eggs as you wish to preserve. 
Have some sawdust in boxes and pack them in it. At the end 
of two or three months the eggs will be found quite good 
enough for culinary purposes. Eggs can be kept for a long 
time if the shells are smeared with butter or sweet oil, then 
packed in plenty of sawdust, not allowing the eggs to touch 
each other. Another way is to plunge them in lime water 
directly they have been laid, and allow the vessel to stand in a 
cool cellar. Eggs for preserving should not be more than 
twenty-four hours old, and should be collected in fine weather. 
Take care the eggs are covered with the lime water, and it is a 
good plan to lay a piece ol board on the top of the eggs witli a 
little lime and salt upon it. 





K ETGRBPS ff 

421. Mushroom Ketchup— Ingredients— To 2 gallons or mush- 

rooms, ^Ib. salt ; to every quart of mushroom liquor, allow a 
small saltspoonful of cayenne, a teaspoonful of allspice, a teaspoon- 
ful of ginger, 2 blades of powdered mace. 

Select some freshly gathered (gather in dry weather or else 
the ketchup will not keep), full-sized mushrooms. Lay in an 
earthenware pan in layers, first a layer of mushrooms and then 
one of salt, and so on until all are used. Allow them to stand 
a while (say five or six hours). Then break to pieces with the 
hand, place in the refrigerator for three days, stirring or mashing 
them occasionally. Extract as much juice as possible, measure 
the liquor without straining, adding to each quart the above 
mentioned spices. Pour into a stone jar, exclude the air; 
place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water and allow to boil 
three hburs. When this is done pour the contents of the jar 
into a stewpan and allow it to simmer geni/y for half an hour. 
Pour into a vessel, place in refrigerator till the next day. Pour 
off into another vessel and strain. Have ready some clean 
dry bottles ; pour into the bottles, taking care not to squeeze the 
mushrooms, and allow the sediment to remain at the bottom of 
the vessel, (if wanted very clear and bright, the liqiior must be 
strained after the above operation through a flannel bag). 
Cork and seal. Examine occasionally and if there is any sign 
of spoiling boil again with a few peppercorns. The sediment 
may be bottled for immediate use. 

422. Lemon Ketchup — Ingredients — One dozen lemons, }4 a break- 

fast cupful of white mustard seed, I eggcupful of turmeric and white 
pepper, j4 an eggcupful of cloves and mace, ^ a small teacupful of 
white sugar, I saltspoonful of cayenne, ^ a small teacupful of horse 
radish, ^ a small teacupful of salt, 4 shallots. 

Finely grate the rind of lemons, pound the spices in a mor- 
tar, grate the horse radish. Thoroughly blend these ingredi- 
ents, then sprinkle the salt over all, extract the juice from the 



Ketchups. 133 



lemons and add to the mixture. Allow to stand in a cool place 
for three or four hours. Boil in an enamelled kettle thirty 
minutes, pour into a stone jar, cover tightly. Stir every day for 
fourteen days, then strain, bottle and seal. 

423. Tomato Ketchup (l)— Ingredients— To i peck of tomatoes 

allow I tablespoonful of salt, mace, black pepper cloves, powdered, 
and one of celery seed ; a teaspoonful of cayenne, % lb. tin of 
mustard. 

Make a small incision in each tomato, put into an enamelled 
saucepan, and boil until perfectly soft, and the pulp dissolved; 
work through a cullender, then through a hair sieve. Place 
upon the stove adding the remaining ingredients (the celery seed 
must be confined in a muslin bag), and boil six hours. Stir 
occasionally for the first five hours and all the last hour. Pour 
into a stone jar ; allow to stand from twelve to fourteen hours 
in a cool place. When perfectly cool add a pint of strong vine- 
gar. Remove the celery seed; bottle, cork, and seal. Ex- 
clude from the light. 

424. Tomato Ketchup (2) — Ingedients — Ripe tomatoes, to every 

lb. of juice add a pint of vinegar, a dessertspoonful of sliced garlic, a 
small spoonful of salt and white pepper. 

Take a number of ripe tomatoes ; place in a jar ; cover and 
bake till tender. Strain and work through a sieve, and add the 
above ingredients. Pour into a stewpan and boil until the 
ingredients are perfectly soft. Work through a sieve a second 
time, and to every pound squeeze the juice of three lemons. 
Boil again until of the thickness of cream. Set aside to get 
cold. Bottle, cork and seal, and keep in a dry, dark place. 

425. Mustard (to make). 

Mix the best Durham flour of mustard by degrees with boil- 
ing water to a proper thickness, rubbing it perfectly smooth ; 
add a little salt, and keep it in a small jar closely covered, and 
put only as much into the glass as will be used soon, which 
should be wiped daily round the edges. 

426. Mustard (Another way, for immediate use). 

Mix the mustard with new milk by degrees, to be quite 
smooth, and add a little raw cream. It is much softer this way, 
is not bitter, and will keep well. 

427. Mint Vinegar. 

Take a wide-mouthed bottle or bottles. Fill them (loosely) 



134 The Dominion Cook Book. 

with nice fresh mint leaves, then add good vinegar to fill the 
bottle or bottles ; cork well. Allow to stand for two or three 
weeks, and at the expiration of this time, strain into fresh 
bottles and cork securely. Useful when mint is not in season. 

428. Horse Radish Vinegar — Ingredients — Three oz. of scraped 

horse radish, i oz. of minced shallot, i drachm of cayenne, i quart 
of vinegar. 

Pour the vinegar upon the above ingredients ; allow to stand 
ten days. This will be found exceedingly useful for cold joints, 
salads, etc., and a very economical relish. 

429. An excellent substitute for Caper Sauce. 

Boil slowly some parsley to let it become a bad color, cut, 
but don't chop it fine ; put it to melted butter, with a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and a dessertspoonful of vingear. Boil up and 
serve. 

430. Nasturtium (for Capers). 

Keep them a few days after they are gathered, then pour 
boiling vinegar over them, and when cold cover. They will 
not be fit to eat for some months, but they are then finely 
flavored, and by many preferred to capers. 

431. Chili Vinegar — Fifty fresh red chilies, one pint of vinegar. 
Cut the chilies in half, steep in the vinegar for a fortnight, 

it will then be ready for use, and will be found a very nice 
relish for fish. 

432. Cherokee — Ingredients — One eggspoonful of cayenne, J cloves of 

garlic, an eggcupful of soy, ^ an eggcupful of walnut ketchup, i 
pint of vinegar. 

Boil all the ingredients for half an hour. Strain, and bottle 
for use. Will keep good for a long time. 

433. Green GooseberryChutnee— Ingredients— Two pints of 

unripe gooseberries or green apples, 3 oz. mustard seed, 3 oz. 
powdered ginger, 5 oz. coarse sugar, 10 oz. raisins, 3 oz. salt, 2 
pints vinegar, 3 oz. garlic. 

Chop the gooseberries and the raisins (after being stoned) 
quite fine, also the onions and garlic almost to a paste ; add 
one ounce cayenne, and a proper quantity of turmeric to make 
it a nice color. When well mixed, boil ten minutes or quarter 
of an hour, and rub through a sieve. 



Ketchups. 135 



434. Herbs (to Dry). 

Gather the herbs for drying before they begin to flower. 
Free from dirt and dust and tie in bunches, having previously 
removed the roots. Dry in the oven or before the fire, in 
either case, dry quickly as the flavor is better preserved by quick 
drying. Upon no consideration allow them to burn. Tie up 
in paper bags and hang in a dry place. N.B. — Take care to 
gather the herbs on a dry day. 

435- Wy Mother's Chutnee— Ingredients— >^ a lb. brown sugar, 
}i lb. salt, % lb. garlic, }^ lb. onions, ^ lb. ginger, % lb. mustard 
seed or cayenne pepper, yi lb. raisins, stoned and chopped fine, 15 
large apples (sour), 3 pts. best vinegar. 

Boil the apples, onions, and garlic in the vinegar, rub this 
through a sieve, steep the mustard seed in vinegar, then shred 
it fine ; add all together and mix well. Bottle when cold. It 
is much more of a relish than pickles. 

436. Himalaya Chutnee— Ingredients— 8 lbs. green apples, i lb. 

sultana raisins, I lb. brown sugar, I oz. birdseye chilies, 2 oz. whole 
mustard, 4 oz. garlic, 4 oz. coarse salt, 1% bottles brown vinegar. 

Chop all the ingredients very fine, then add the salt, vinegar 
and sugar ; put in a jelly pan on a slow fire and let it stew till 
soft like a pulp. This is very good when bottled and well 
corked. 

437. Herb Powder (forWinte'r use)— Ingredients — Take 2015. 

each of winter savory, sweet marjoram, lemon, thyme, lemon peel 
and 4 oz, of parsley. 

Thoroughly dry the herbs and take off the leaves. Grind to 
a powder and pass through a sieve. Dry the lemon peel and 
pound as finely as possible, then mix all together thoroughly. 
Keep in glass bottles tightly corked. 

438. Parsley (to keep for Wintecr use). 

Take fresh bunches of parsiey and plunge into boiling water 
slightly salted, boiling for three or four minutes. Remove from 
the water, and drain dry very quickly before the fire, and put in 
bottles for use. Soak in tepid water five minutes when required 
for cooking. 

439. Garlic Vinegar; 

Steep an ounce of garlic in two quarts of the best white 
wine vinegar ; add a nutmeg scraped. This vinegar is much 
esteemed by the French. 



136 



The Dominion Cook Book. 



440. A Useful Ketchup— Ingredients— >^ pint of mushrooms 

ketchup, ^ pint of walnut pickle, z tablespoonfuls of Chili vinegar, 
2 shallots. 

Take one-half pint of freshly made mushroom ketch- 
up, peel the shallots and add them to the ketchup and 
allow it to simmer for ten minutes, then add the pickle and 
vinegar and boil again for ten minutes. Stand in a cool place 
and when perfectly cold, bottle, and having placed a small 
piece of shallot in each bottle, cork and set by for use. 

441. Grape Catsup — Ingredients — 5 lbs. of ripe grapes, zyi lbs. of 

sugar, I pt. of vinegar, I teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, 
allspice and pepper, % teaspoonfiil of salt. 

Simmer the grapes in enough water to prevent burning, 
strain through a colander, add the other ingredienls, and boil 
until a little thickened. Bottle, and cork and seal. 







OBSERVATIONS ON FORCEMEATS. 

Whether in the form of stuffing-balls or for patties, force- 
meat makes a considerable part of good cooking, by the flavor 
it imparts to the dish it accompanies, and considerable care 
should be taken in cooking it. It is often the case, at many 
excellent tables where everything else is well done, to find very 
bad forcemeat or stuffing. 

442. Forcemeat (to Force Fowls or Meat)— Ingredients— A 

A little ham or gammon, veal, or fowl, beef-suet, onion, parsley, 
lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, pounded mace, white pepper or cayenne, 
bread-crumbs, i or 2 eggs. 

Shred a little ham or gammon, some cold veal, or fowl, 
some beef-suet ; a small quantity of onion, some parsley, very 
little lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg or pounded mace, and either 
white pepper or cayenne, and bread-crumbs. Pound in a 
mortar, and bind it with one or two eggs beaten and strained ; 
for forcemeat patties the same mixture as above. 

443. Forcemeat (for cold Savory PI©)— Ingredients- 

above. 

The same ; only substituting fat, or bacon, for suet. The 
livers (if the pie be of rabbit or fowls), mixed with fat and le.;n 
of pork, instead of bacon, and seasoned as above, is excellent. 

444. Forcemeat2(Common, for Veal or Hare)— Ingredients 

}4 lb. of bread crumbs, 4 oz. of beef suet, the rind of half a lemon, 
I tablespoonful of minced savory herbs, pepper and salt to taste, a 
little nutmeg, 2 eggs. 

Mince the lemon rind as fine as possible and blend with 
the other ingredients ; mix well and bind with the beaten eggs. 

137 



•As 



138 The Dominion Cook Book. 

445. Forcemeat (for Fish Soups)— Ingredients— l lobster, I 

small head of celery, butter the size of an egg, a cupful of bread 
crumbs, 3 eggs, pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg. 

Pick the meat from the lobster and pound in a mortar, boil 
the celery until soft, drain, and mix with the lobster, bread 
cruubs, seasoning, and the yolk of one hard-boiled egg. Pound 
well for a quarter of an hour, warm the butter, and mix with 
two beaten eggs ; add this to the lobster and other ingredients. 
Dip your hands in flour, form the mixture into little balls, fry 
in butter, and serve in fish soup. 

446. Forcemeat (for Fovwls)— Ingredients— ^ lb. of suet, 2 oz. of 

ham, the grated rind of half a lemon, a dessertspoonful of minced 
parsley, i teaspoonful of minced sweet herbs, cayenne, salt grounded 
mace to taste, 7 oz. bread crumbs, 2 eggs. 

Cut the ham into small, thin strips, chop the suet finely, 
also the lemon peel; add the seasoning, then the crumbs; 
thoroughly blend, and after the eggs have been well beaten add 
to the other ingredients, and it is ready for use. If wished for 
balls, fry a golden brown in hot lard. 

447. Forcemeat Balls (for Mock Turtle)— Ingredients- 

Pounded veal, udder, or butter, bread crumbs, milk, chopped pirsley, 
shoUot, yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs, pepper, salt, curry powder or 
cayenne, yolks of 2 uncooked eggs. 

Take the pounded veal and rub through a sieve, with an 
equal quantity of udder, or if there is no udder at hand one 
third of the quantity of butter will do instead. Then place the 
bread crumbs into a stewpan and mix with a very small quantity 
of milk, enough to moisten it. Add to this the chopped parsley 
and shallot, and mix well until they have become a paste ; pour 
it through a sieve and leave to cool. When cold pound it and 
mix well together. Have ready the yolks of three hard-boiled 
eggs, add these and some pepper and salt, curry powder or 
cayenne for seasoning ; then add the yolks of the two uncooked 
eggs, rub all well together, and shapeinto balls. Place in the 
soup ten or fifteen minutes before serving. 

448. Forcemeat Balls (very fine Balls for Fish Soups 

or Stewed Fish)— Ingredients— Lobster, a little essence of 
anchovy to taste, boiled celery, yolk of a hard boiled egg, cayenne, 
mace, salt, white pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, one of 
oyster liquor, 2 oz. of butter, 2 eggs. 

Beat the flesh and soft parts of a middling lobster, essence 
of anchovy to taste, a large piece of boiled celery, the yolk of a 



Forcemeats. 139 



hard egg, a liitle cayenne, mace, salt, and white pepper, with 
two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, one ditto of oyster liquor, 
two ounces of butter warmed, and two eggs well beaten ; make 
into balls, and fry of a fine brown in butter. 

449. Forcemeat Balls (for Soup)— Ingredients— 8 oz. bread 

crumbs, sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, 5 eggs. 

Have the bread crumbs finely grated, and the herbs pounded 
to a powder ; sprinkle with pepper and salt ; boil two eggs hard 
and mince finely. Mix all together and bind the whole with 
the remaining eggs. Form into little balls, and drop into the 
soup about five or six minutes before serving. 

450. Forcemeat (Oyster, for Roast or Boiled Turkey) 

— Ingredients — 2 teacupfuls of bread crumbs, i oz. of minced suet, 
I tablespoonful of savory herbs, a sprinkle of nutmeg, salt and pepper 
to taste, 2 eggs, i}i doz. oysters. 

Have the bread crumbs and suet finely minced, add the 
herbs chopped as finely as possible ; mix well. Having opened 
the oysters, beard and chop them (not very small) and add to 
the other ingredients ; beat up the eggs, and with the hand 
work all together thoroughly ; it is then ready for use. 

451. Sage and Onion Stuffing (for Pork, Ducks, Geese) 

— Ingredients— 2 teacupfuls of bread crumbs, 4 large onions, 12 sage 
leaves, butter the size of an egg, pepper and salt to taste, i egg. 

Peel and boil the onions for five or six minutes, dip the 
sage leaves in the same water (while boiling) for a minute or 
two, then chop finely ; add seasoning, the bread crumbs and 
butter ; beat up the egg, and work altogether. It is then ready 
for use. 



■OESES 

-:>^>^| Bread and Cakes S^?:^^^^ 

OBSERVATIONS ON BREAD, 

Of all articles of food, bread is perhaps the most important, 
therefore it is necessary to be well acquainted with the quality 
of the ingredients and the art of making it. Flour ought to be 
a few weeks old before being used, and care must be taken to 
keep it perfectly dry. Genuine flour will hold together in a 
mass when pressed with the hand. American flour requires 
almost twice as much water to make it into bread, as is used 
for English flour, and therefore it is more profitable, for a stone 
of the American which weighs fourteen pounds will make 
twenty-one and a half pounds of bread, but the best sort of 
English flour produces only eighteen and one-half pounds. In 
wet weather, or when wheat is badly stored, causing it to be 
damp, the soluble albuminoids which it possesses acts upon the 
insoluble gluten causing it to decompose, and at once generat- 
ing, dextrin by their action on the starch of the grain, conse- 
quently the flour prepared from such grain is poor in gluten and 
rich in dextrin, the consequence being that when used it 
produces heavy bread, therefore it is of the utmost importance 
to purchase only the best quality of flour, for it is the truest 
economy. Do not place the sponge or dough too near the fire, 
as some cooks are liable to do in cold weather, or the quality of 
bread will be endangered. The proper heat should be gentle 
and equal for fermentation. Care must also be taken to mix 
and knead (brisk and long kneading will fully repay for the 
trouble) when it has reached the point for either. Some 
authorities say the heat of the oven should rise to 280° and 
after a quarter of an hour slacken to 220°, others from 300° to 
400°. The cook must be guided by experience as to the exact 
degree of heat. Doubtless the bread will require a brisk oven, 
and should take about an hour to an houif and a half to bake. 

140 



Bread and Cakes. 141 



OBSERVATIONS ON CAKES. 

For good cakes (as in bread) it is of great importance to 
use no ingredients, but those of the finest quality. The flour 
must be dry and sifted. It will be found a good plan after 
purchasing currants, to wash in three waters, pick and dry in a 
cloth. Then look them carefully over, discarding any stone, 
stalk, or grit. Lay before the fire or in the sun to dry. Put by 
in jar, and they will always be ready for use. Eggs should be 
well whisked, the whites and yolks beaten separately and 
strained. Butter must not be allowed to oil. Lemon peel 
should be cut thinly as possible. Sugar should be finely 
powdered. When soda is used it is a good plan to dissolve it 
in warm water. When all the ingredients are mixed, vigorous 
and patient beating will greatly add to the lightness of the cake. 
The heat of the oven is of great importance for cakes, especially 
those that are large. If not pretty quick, the batter will not 
rise. Should you fear its catching by being too quick, put some 
paper over the cake to prevent its being burnt. If not long 
enough lighted to have a body of heat, or it is become slack, 
the cake will be heavy. To know when it is soaked, take a 
broom straw, and pierce into the very centre, draw it instantly 
out, and if the least stickiness adheres, put the cake immediately 
in, and shut up the oven. 

452. Yeast (i) — Ingredients— A double handful of hops, % doz. potatoes, 

yi, gal. of water, I or ^ cupful of ginger, small cupful of flour, a 
cupful of brown sugar, % cupful of salt, a cupful of good yeast. 

Allow the hops and potatoes to boil together in one-half 
gallon of water till done ; strain and mash the ginger, then add 
remaining ingredients, excepting the yeast. Let stand until 
cool, then add the yeast. Next day cork up tight in a jug. 

453. Yeast (2)— Ingredients— 2 oz. of hops, I gal. of water, a handful of 

salt, I lb. of best flour, 3 lbs. of potatoes. 
Boil the hops in a gallon of water for half an hour ; strain 
it, and let it cool down to the heat of new milk ; then put the 
salt and moist sugar; beat the flour with some of the liquor, 
and then mix all together. Two days after, add the potatoes, 
boiled and then mashed, to stand for four-and-twenty- hours ; 
then put it into bottles, and it will be ready for use. Stir it 



142 The Dominion Cook Book. 

frequently while making, and keep it warm. Before using, 
shake the bottle up well. It will keep in a cool place for two 
months. 

454- Yeast (Compressed). 

This yeast will make good and wholesome bread, but bread 
made from it will not keep as long as with brewers or home- 
made yeast. Potatoes mixed with the dough will keep it moist 
longer. 

455. Potato Yeast — Ingredients — To every lb. of potatoes 2 oz. 

of treacle, 2 large spoonfuls of yeast. 

This is made of mealy potatoes boiled thoroughly soft ; they 
are skinned and mashed as smooth as possible ; as much hot 
water should then be put on them as will make a mash of the 
consistency of good beer yeast. Add to the potatoes the 
treacle ; and when just warm, stir in the yeast. Keep it warm 
till it has done fermenting, and in twenty-four hours it will be 
fit for use. One pound of potatoes will make nearly a quart of 
yeast ; and it is said to be equally as good as brewers' yeast. 

456. Home-made Bread (i) — Ingredients — 4 lbs. of flour, I table- 

spoonful of solid brewers' yeast, i}i pints of luke-warm milk and 
water, salt. 

Put the flour into a deep pan, sprinkle a little salt into it, 
hollow out the middle with a wooden spoon (take care to leave 
the bottom of the pan well covered with flour).- Next take the 
yeast, which has been made solid by liberally mixing with cold 
water and allowing it to settle twenty-four hours. Then pro- 
ceed to pour the yeast into the hole in the flour, and mix with 
it as much flour as is round about it until it is of the consistency 
of thick batter ; be careful there are no lumps. Sift plenty of 
flour over the top, cover with a clean cloth, and set it where the 
air is warm and equal. Allow to stand an hour or a little 
longer, and if the yeast has broken through it is then ready to 
be made into dough. Pour into the sponge the remaining milk 
and water. Mix into it as nmch of the flour as you can with 
the spoon. Now take plenty of the flour, sprinkle on the top 
of the leaven, and proceed to knead briskly, and when perfectly 
free from lumps and does not adhere to the hands, it may be 
covered with a cloth and left to rise a second time. When it 
begins to crack, which will be in about three-quarters of a hour, 
it can be formed into loaves and baked. In forming the loaves 



Bread and Cakes. 143 

divide in two and make up the shape and size required, and 
Mrith a sharp knife make incisions in the top of each loaf. If 
baked in tins, take care to grease them before using. When 
baked stand on end to allow the steam to evaporate. The 
dough can be made without making a sponge (if desired) by 
mixing the yeast with the best part of the milk and water, and 
after a little salt has been added proceed to work up the whole 
of the flour at once, and then act as above. The dough will 
soften in the rising, so it should be made firm at first. 

457. Home-made Bread (2). 

Put the flour into a large pan ; mix in a dessertspoonful of 
salt ; make a hole in the middle, and pour in the yeast (half a 
teacupful of yeast to two quarts of flour), with about a pint of 
water or milk (which use warm in winter, and cold in summer), 
not mixing in all the flour ; then put a blanket, or towel, over 
the pan, and let it stand to rise, near the fire in winter. This 
is " putting bread in sponge." When it has risen, mix all the 
flour with the sponge ; knead it well, and let it stand two hours 
till quite light. Then mould the dough on a board till elastic, 
and put the loaves into greased or floured baking-tins ; prick 
them two or three times through with a fork ; let them rise 
again for a quarter of an hour, and bake them in a quick oven. 

458. White Bread — Ingredients — Sponge, a pan of butter milk, or 

sour milk, flour, teacupful of yeast. 

For the sponge take a pan of buttermilk or sour milk which 
has just turned thick. Put it on the stove and scald. When 
the curd is well separated from the whey strain or skim it out. 
Let the whey cool until it will not scald, then stir in the flour, 
beating thoroughly. It should be about as thick as batter for 
griddle cakes. Sweet milk, or even water may be used as 
wetting for the sponge, if good sour milk or buttermilk cannot 
be had. But fresh buttermilk is, perhaps, the best of all. 
When the sponge is about milkwarm, beat in a teacupful of 
yeast. One teacupful of the yeast is enough for four ordinary 
white loaves, and a tin of rolls. The sponge should be made 
at night. Let it stand until morning. Unless the weather is 
very cold, it is not necessary to put it near the fire. In the 
morning, when the sponge is light, mix with flour, taking care 
not to put in too much, as that will make the bread dry and 
hard. Knead half an hour. The whiteness and delicacy of the 



144 The Dominion Cook Book. 

bread will be much increased by thorough kneading. Put the 
dough away to rise again. When it is light, if you wish to make 
rolls, save enough of the dough for that purpose. Make the 
remainder into loaves. Set them away to rise. When light, 
bake. 

495. Yeast Bread — Ingredients — Yeast, 12 potatoes, 3 large table- 
spoonfuls of flour, 2 each of sugar and salt, 2 yeast cakes, to every 
loaf of bread allow 1 pintof yeast. 

To make the yeast pare twelve medium-sized potatoes and 
put them in a kettle to boil. While they are boihng put in a 
pan three heaped tablespoonfuls of flour, two each of sugar and 
salt. Pour slowly over these a pint of boiling water, stirring 
constantly to free from lumps. When soft mash the potatoes 
and add to the contents of the pan. Now pour in a quart of 
cold water and one of boiling water. Set aside till cool enough 
to bear your finger in. Stir in two yeast cakes dissolved in a 
Uttle water. Keep warm till a foam rises over the top, when it 
is ready for use. For each loaf of the bread take one pint of 
the yeast, no other wetting being required. Make a hole in the 
centre of a pan of flour, pour in the yeast and stir it thick as 
possible, cover and set in a warm place to rise, which will be in 
about two hours — sometimes less — now mix into loaves, let it 
rise again, and bake from a half to three-quarters of an hour. 
A great advantage of this bread is, it is so quickly made. If 
the yeast should become a little sour, a pinch of soda may be 
put in when first stirred for bread. 

460. Plain Bread — Ingredients — )4 lb. of white flour, i teaspoonful 
of baking powder, a pinch of salt X P'- °f ™'l'' ^^^ water. 

The simplest way of making bread in small quantities is as 
follows : — Take one-half pound of white flour, and, whilst in a 
dry state, mix in thoroughly a small teaspoonful baking powder 
and a pinch of salt. Then add about a quarter of a pint of 
milk and water, or water alone ; knead it as quickly as possible 
and put immediately into a very hot oven ; the whole secret of 
making light bread after this fashion lies in attention to these 
last rules. If the oven is well heated, it will rise almost directly, 
and it should be baked until the outside is quite crisp and 
hard. I generally knead mine into the desired >liape, but they 
can be baked in tins if preferred. For brown bread, I use 
three parts of brown and one of white flour, and a little extra 



Bread and Cake. 145 

baking powder ; also adding a little more water, if necessary, 
to mix it. 

461. Rice and Wheat Bread— Ingredients— i lb. of rice, 2 qts. of 

water, 4 lbs. of flour, 4 large spoonfuls of yeast, salt. 

Simmer a pound of rice in two quarts of water till it becomes 
perfectly soft ; when it is of a proper warmth, mix it extremely 
well with four pounds of flour, and yeast and salt as for other 
bread ; of yeast about four large spoonfuls ; knead it extremely 
well ; then set it to rise before the fire. Some of the flour 
should be reserved to make up the loaves. If the rice should 
require more water, it must be added, as some rice swells more 
than others. 

462. French Bread— Ingredients— X pk- of fine flour, yolks of 3 

and whites of 2 eggs, salt, }4 pt. of good yeast, }4 pt. of milk. 

With a quarter of a peck of fine flour mix the yolks of three 
and whites of two eggs, beaten and strained, a little salt, half a 
pint of good yeast, that is not bitter, and as much milk, made 
a little warm, as will work into a thin light dough ; stir it about, 
but don't knead it ; have ready three quart wooden dishes, 
divide the dough among them, set to rise, then turn them out 
into the oven, which must be quick. Rasp when done. 

463. Brown Bread — Ingredients — Sponge as for white bread, 2 parts 

of Graham flour, ^ white flour, to every qt. of this add a large 
breakfast cupful of Indian meal, 2 saltspoonfuls of salt, for a good 
sized loaf allow }4 a cupful of molasses. 

Take the Graham and white flour, Indian meal, and salt, in 
the above proportions, and mix this up with the sponge, then 
pour in the molasses. If it cannot be brought to the proper 
congruity (which should be very soft) with the sponge, add a 
little warm water ; be careful to knead it well and for a long 
time ; then allow it to rise ; it will take longer than white bread ; 
then make into loaves, and bake carefully. When baked allow 
to cool before cutting. 

464. Brown Bread (2) — Ingredients — i pt. of brown flour, yi cupful 

of yeast, white flour, sweeten to taste. 

Scald one pint of brown flour, make it as thick as stiflF 
mush ; then put in half a cupful of yeast, and let this sponge 
stand over night ; in the morning mix it up with white flour, 
and sweeten to taste. This quantity makes two small loaves. 
It requires longer to bake than white bread. 



146 The Dominion Cook Book. 

465. Brown Bread (3)^Ingredients— 3 teacupfuls of corn meal, 2 

cupfuls of boiling sweet milk, I teacupful of molasses, I cupful of 
wheat flour, I cupful of sour milk, i teaspoonful of soda, % tea- 
spoonful of salt. 

Take the corn meal, stir into it the boiling sweet milk; 
when cold, add the molasses, wheat flour, and sour milk ; into 
the sour milk stir well the soda ; add also the salt ; steam three 
hours. 

466. Brown Bread (4)— Ingredients— i pt. of corn meal, I pt. of 

rye flour, I tablespoonful of brown sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 2 of 
baking powder, i tablespoonful of lard, ^ pint of milk. 

Sift together the above ingredients, excepting the lard and 
milk ; rub into the mixture the lard and add the milk. Mix 
into a batter-like cake and bake one hour. Protect it with 
brown paper if it should brown too fast at first. 

467. Brown Bread (5)— Ingredients— i cupful of com meal, I cupfal 

of Graham flour, i cupful of sour milk, I cupful of warm water, yi 
cupful of molasses, I teaspoonful of soda, a little salt. 

Steam two hours. Serve at table hot. 

468. Brown Bread (Steamed)— Ingredients— l cupful of sour 

milk, }i cupful of warm water, i cupful of molasses, }4 teaspoonful 
of soda, i}i cupfuls of Indian meal, }i cupful of flour. 

Steam three hours and bake one-half hour. It may seem 
thin but it will be just right when done. 

469. Brown Bread Boston (Delicious and Genuine)— 

Ingredients— 1 1^ cupfuls of yellow meal, 1 cupful of rye flour, I 
cupful of Graham flour, i cupful of New Orleans molasses, 2 full 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder and a little salt. 

Mix all to a consistency of a thick batter with either milk or 
water, pour into a buttered mold or tin pail, and steam in boiling 
water four hours. 

470. Rye Bread — Ingredients — 2 cupfuls of Indian meal, scalding 

water, a small cupful of white bread sponge, sugar, salt, a teaspoon- 
ful of soda, rye. 

Make the Indian meal into a thick batter with scalding 
water J when cool add the white bread sponge, a little sugar 
and salt, and the soda, dissolved. In this stir as much rye as 
is possible with a spoon ; let it rise until it is very light ; then 
work in with your hands as much rye as you can, but do not 
knead it, as that will make it hard ; put it in buttered bread 
tins, and let it rise for about fifteen minutes j then bake it for 



Bread and Cakes. 147 



an hour and a half, cooling the oven gradually for the last 
twenty minutes. 

471. Corn Bread Steamed (Canadian Recip#)— Ingredient 

— 3 cupfuls of corn meal, boiling water, I cupful of 'flour, 2 cupfuls 
of sour milk, i cupful of molasses, I teaspoonful of soda, a little salt. 

Scald two cups of corn meal with boiling water, add another 
cup of meal and remaining ingredients. Mix thoroughly, and 
steam three hours. 

472. Corn Bread (Baked)— Ingredients— ^ a p!nt of butter milk, 

yi, a pint of sweet milk, % a teaspoonful of soda, 2 eggs, 9 table- 
spoonfuls of sifted corn meal, lard, a teaspoonful of salt. 

Half a pint of buttermilk, half a pint of sweet milk ; add to 
the buttermilk half a teaspoon of soda ; beat the eggs, whites 
and yolks together, pour the milk on to the eggs, and thicken 
with the sifted corn meal. Put the pan in which it is to be 
baked on the stove with a piece of lard the size of an egg ; 
when melted pour in the batter, add the salt, stir well and bake. 

473. Rice Bread — Ingredients — A plate of boiled rice, 2 eggs, l>^ 

cups of flour, lump of butter size of walnut, milk. 

Take the boile(J rice warm enough to melt the butter, beat 
the eggs separately, mix with them the flour, and milk enough 
to make a thick batter. Grease the pans and bake like bread 
or muffins. 

474. Soda Bread — Ingredients — Allow a teaspoonful of tartaric acid 

to every 2 lbs. of flour, 2 saltspoonfuls of salt, ^ pint of milk with 
a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in it. 

Pound the tartaric acid and the salt to a powder. Then 
put them into a basin with the flour and mix well together. 
Take the milk with the soda well dissolved in it and pour in 
with the flour. Great expedition is required in working it into 
a dough. Form into two loaves and bake in a brisk oven for 
an hour. 

475. American Corn Bread— Ingredients— l large tablespoonful 

of lard, J^ a teacup of brown sugar, i teacup of flour, 3 teacups of 
Indian meal, 2 small teaspoonful cream of tartar, I small teaspoon- 
ful of carbonate of soda, I egg, i saltspoon of salt, enough sour milk 
to make a batter about as thick as for cake, or thinner. 

Beat eggs, lard and sugar together, then add flour, meal 
and milk gradually with the salt and creatii of tartar ; when 
just ready for the oven, mix in the carbonate of soda, put in 
tins, and bake in a good oven, but not too hot. Bake about 



148 The Dominion Cook Book. 

three-quarters of an hour or until done. If the tins have paper 
ut the bottom they bake better, and do not stick. If you have 
not sour milk, sweet will do, but buttermilk is the best of all. 
These cakes can be kept in the tins and heated up the next 
day. 

476. Rusks— Ingredients — 1 pint of new milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of yeast, 

flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, i cupful of sugar, 2 eggs, 2 salt- 
spoonfuls of salt. 

Rusks require a longer time for rising than ordinary rolls or 
biscuits. Prepare a sponge of the yeast, milk and flour, (sufifi- 
cient to make a thin batter) and allow it to rise all night. 
Next morning add eggs, butter and sugar (which must have 
been mixed well together), salt and flour enough to produce a 
soft dough. Shape into neat balls of equal size, place in a pan 
and allow to rise until very light. Flavor according to taste. 
Bake in a quick, steady oven till of a pretty brown color ; glaze 
with the yolk of an egg and sprinkle with powdered white 
sugar. 

477. Buttei* Rolls — Ingredients — l quart of flour, yi 3. teaspoonful of 

salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, I egg, 1 pint of milk, i 
tablespoonful of lard. 

Sift the flour, salt and baking powder together, rub in the 
lard cold, then add the egg and milk, mix as soft as possible. 
Roll it out one half inch in thickness and cut with a plain round 
biscuit cutter. Dip them in melted butter, fold one-third of 
each piece over the remainder and bake in a quick oven for 
fifteen minutes. 

478. Swiss Rolls — Ingredients — 2 eggs, their weight in flour and sifted 

sugar and butter, lemon juice, jam. 

Take two eggs as your weights and take their weight in 
flour, sifted sugar and butter. First cream the butter and 
sugar, stir in the two yolks slightly beaten, then the two whites 
beaten to a stiff froth, and last of all the flour, strewn lightly 
in; mix thoroughly, and add a little lemon juice. Grease a 
Yorkshire pudding-dish, and pour in the mixture about half an 
inch in depth; bake in a hot oven for not more than seven 
minutes, as otherwise it would become too crisp to roll ; strew 
a sheet of paper with sugar, and turn it out on this, and imme- 
diately spread with jam, and quickly roll it; if not done whilst 
very hot, it will break in the rolling. The top can be orna- 



Bread and Cakes. 149 

merited with bars of pink sugar icing, silver comfits and 
preserved fruit. 

479. Breakfast Roils — Ingredients — 2 quarts flour, i tablespoon- 

ful sugar, I tablespoonful butter, >^ cup of yeast, 1 pint scalded milk, 
or water if milk is scarce, and a little salt. 

Set to rise until light ; then knead until hard and set to 
rise, and when wanted make in rolls ; place a piece of butter 
between the folds, and bake in a slow oven. 

480. Graham Biscuits — Ingredients — l quart water or milk, butter 

the size of an egg, 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 2 of baker's yeast, and a 
pinch of salt ; enough white flour to use up the water, making it the 
consistency of batter cakes, and as much Graham flour as can be 
stirred in with a spoon. 

Set it away till morning; in the morning grease pan, flour 
hands; take a lump of dough the size of a large egg; roll 
lightly between the palms; let them rise twenty minutes and 
bake in a tolerably hot oven. 

481. Soda Biscuits — Ingredients — 18 oz. flour, ^ of a breakfast cup 

of lard, 2 small cups of new milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar, i 
of soda, a pinch of salt. . 

Take care that the cream-tartar and the soda are of the 
finest powder and mix well with the flour; add the salt and 
lard, and with the hands rub well into the flour ; pour in the 
milk and work up the dough as quickly as possible, taking care 
to have it as soft as is possible to handle. Roll, cut into cakes, 
and bake in a brisk oven. 

482. Pi/iilk Biscuits — Ingredients— X^ lb. of butter, i qt. of milk, I 

gill of yeast, salt to taste, as much flour as will form the dough. 

Stir flour into the milk so as to form a very thick batter, 
and add the yeast ; this should be done in the evening ; in the 
morning cut up the butter and set it near the fire where it will 
melt, but not get hot, pour the melted butter into the sponge, 
then stir in enough flour to make a dough; knead well and 
leave to rise ; as soon as it is perfectly light, butter your tins, 
cut the dough into cakes and let them rise ; when they have 
risen bake in a very quick oven. When done, rub over the tops 
with water and serve hot. 

483. Baking Powder Biscuit. 

Take one quart of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, mix thoroughly, then rub in butter or lard the size of an 
egg, and wet with milk, stirring with a spoon until thick enough 



ISO The Dominion Cook Book. 

to lay on the moulding-board. Cut thin and bake in a quick 
oven. 

484. Sally Lunn — Ingredients — 2 lbs. of flour, ^ a lb. of butter, 3 

eggs, I pint of milk, % a gill of yeast, salt according to taste. 

Cut up the butter into the flour, and with your hands rub 
it well together; beat the eggs; add them gradually to the 
flour alternately with the milk ; stir in the yeast and salt. Bake 
it in an earthen mould, or iron pan, one hour. 

485. Breakfast Muffins— Ingredients — 3 eggs, i breakfastcupful 

of milk, I tablespoonful of butter melted, i of sugar, a pinch of salt, 
2 heaped teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Whisk the eggs and mix with the milk ; put the melted but" 
ter into a basin with the above ingredients, mixing in flour 
enoiigh to make a batter. Bake in round tins, and when almost 
done wash the top of each With a feather dipped in milk. 

486. Graham Muffins— Ingredients— l qt. of Graham flour, 2 tea- 

spoonfuls of baking powder, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, I 
egg, I tablespoonful of sugar, % teaspoonful of salt, milk enough to 
make a batter as thick as for griddle cakes. 

Bake in mufiin-rings, about twenty minutes, in a quick oven. 

487. Rice Muffins — Ingredients — 2 cups of cold boiled rice, I pint of 

flour, I teaspoon of salt, i tablespoon of sugar, 2 teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder, yi. pint of milk, 3 eggs. 

Mix into a smooth and rather firm batter, and bake as 
above. 

488. Oatmeal Muffins— Ingredients— l cup oatmeal, 1% pints of 

flour, I teaspoonful of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, i pint 
of milk, r tablespoonful of lard, 2 eggs. 

Mix smoothly into a batter rather thipner than for cup 
cakes. Fill the muffin rings two-thirds full and bake in a hot 
oven. 

489. Crumpets (i)— Ingredients— 2 eggs, i teaspoonful each of salt 

and sugar, 4 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, i qt. of milk, 3 pts. 
flour. 

Mix into a stiff batter and bake in greased muffin rings on 
a hot greased griddle. 

490. Crumpets(2) — Ingredients — 2 pts. flour, 1^ teaspoonful of sugar, 

I teaspoonful of salt, 2^ teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 2 eggs, 
I pt. milk, I teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

Mix thoroughly, adding the eggs and milk last. Stir to a 
stiff batter, and bake on a hot, well greased griddle. 



Bread and Cakes. 151 

491. Waffles — Ingredients — 2 eggs, I pt. of milk, yi oz. of butter, % 

gill yeast, salt to taste, and flour enough to form a thick batter. 

Warm the milk and butter together ; beat the eggs, and add 
them by turns with the flour ; stir in the yeast and salt. When 
they are light, heat your waffle-irons and butter them, pour in 
some of the batter, and brown them on both sides ; butter 
them, and serve them with sugar. 

492. Rice Waffles — Ingredients — i gill of rice, 3 gills of flour, salt to 

taste, I oz. of butter, 3 eggs, as much milk as will make it a thick 
batter. 

Boil the rice in very little water until it is soft ; drain it and 
mash it fine. Then add the butter to the rice whilst it is 
warm ; whisk the eggs very light, the yolks and whites separ- 
ately. Add the yolks to the rice, and as much milk as will 
form a batter. Beat the whole very hard, then stir the whites 
of the eggs gently into the mixture. Grease your waffle-irons, 
and bake them. If the batter should be too thin, add a little 
more flour. 

493. Waffles (without yeast] — Ingredients — 3 eggs, i pt. of milk, 

I teaspoonful of butter, as much flour as will make a batter. 

Beat the yolks and whites separately ; melt the butter, and 
while lukewarm stir it into the milk ; whisk the yolks very 
light ; add to them the milk and flour alternately ; beat it well ; 
lastly stir in the whites, which should be whisked very dry. 
The batter should not be beaten after the whites are in. Grease 
your waffle irons after having heated them; fill them nearly 
full of the batter, close them, and place them over the fire ; 
turn the irons so as to bake the waffle on both sides. When 
done, take it out and butter it. These must be baked the 
moment they are mixed. 

494. Spanish Buns — Ingredients — i lb. of flour, ^ of a lb. of sugar, 

yi lb. of butter, 4 eggs, i gill of yeast, i teaspoonful of cinnamon, ^ 
teaspoonful of nutmeg, y^ pt. of milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of rose water. 

Cut up the butter, and rub it well with the flour, add the 
sugar, beat the eggs very light, and stir in lastly the spices and 
rose-water, with milk enough to form a very thick batter, then 
add the yeast. The next morning stir it again, and let it rise 
the second time. Butter your pans, and fill them three parts 
full. When they are done and cold, sift sugar over, and with a 
sharp knife cut them in squares. 



152 The Dominion Cook Book. 

495. Buns — Ingredients — i lb. of flour, 3 oz, butter, ^ lb. sugar, 2 eggs, 

3 half gills of milk, i gill of home-made yeast, I tablespoonful of 
rose-water, 2 teaspoonfuls of powdered cinnamon. 

Warm the butter in the milk ; beat the eggs ; mix them 
with the milk and butter, and pour altogether into the pan of 
flour ; then add the rose-water, cinnamon, and yeast. Mix all 
thoroughly, knead the dough well, let it rise ; when light, make 
it out into cakes ; put them in buttered pans, let them stand 
till they rise again, and bake them. 

496. Easter Buns — Ingredients — }4 quartern of white bread dough, 

6 oz. fresh butter, 6 oz. white sugar, 4 eggs. 

Beat the sugar and eggs together and mix them well with 
the dough (if it is stiff the best plan is to beat it with your 
hand, but if not a spoon will answer the purpose). When this 
is done add the butter. Put- the mixture into tins or cups, and 
bake for about twenty minutes in a quick oven. 

497. Pop-Overs — Ingredients — Take of equal proportions (say 2 cup- 

fuls) milk and flour, 2 eggs, a little salt, butter the size of an egg. 

Mix the salt in the flour, beat the eggs, add to it milk and 
pour upon the flour; mix well, melt the butter and add to 
other ingredients ; the last thing, grease and half fill the tins ; 
bake quickly. 

498. Doughnuts — Ingredients — 2 qts. flour, i teacupful of sour cream, 

2 cupfuls of sugar, 3 eggs, i teaspoonful of soda. 

Place a pan of lard on stove to boil, beat sugar and eggs 
together, dissolve the soda in a little warm water, add cream, 
now sift in the flour as you stir, adding a little spice if preferred. 
Roll out the dough, cut in rings or make into twists. Fry a 
golden brown in the boiling lard. 

499. Buttermilk Cakes, 

Take one pint of buttermilk, and stir into it as much flour 
as will form a dough, with one tablespoonful of dissolved car- 
bonate of ammonia; roll the dough out in sheets, cut the cakes, 
and bake them in a moderate oven. The carbonate of ammo- 
nia may be obtained at any of the druggists ; it is the common 
smelling-salts, without any of the aromatic drugs. It never 
imparts any taste to the food, as the heat disengages the car- 
bonic acid gas and the ammonia. 

SCO. Mush Cakes — Ingredients — i qt. of milk, X ^^- of butter, flour 
enough to make a dough, salt according to taste, Indian meal sujfi- 
(jient to thicken the milk, }4 a pt. of yeast. 



Bread and Cakes. 153 

Boil the milk, and stir into it as much Indian meal, mixed 
with cold milk, as will make a mush as thick as batter ; add 
the butter and salt while the mush is hot ; as soon as it be- 
comes lukewarm stir in the yeast and as much flour as will 
form a dough ; cover it and stand it to rise. When light, make 
it out into biscuits, put them in buttered pans, and, as soon as 
they rise again, bake them in a hot oven. These cakes are 
very nice. 

501. Buckwheat Cakes — Ingredients — I pt. of buckwheat meal, i 

qt. of water, salt according to taste, l gill home-made yeast. 

Mix the water (which should be lukewarm if the weather is 
cold) with the meal ; add the salt and yeast ; beat it well : 
when light, bake them on a griddle. Grease the griddle ; poui 
on a little of the batter ; spread it so as to form a cake about 
the size of a breakfast-plate; the cakes should be very smooth at 
the edges. When they are done on one side, turn them ; 
when brown on both sides, put some butter on the plate, put 
the cake on it, butter the top, bake another and put on it, but- 
ter hot, and send them to the table. Buckwheat cakes are 
much better if they are sent to the table with only one or two 
on the plate. 

502. Rye Batter Cakes — Ingredients — l pt. of rye meal, enough 

lukewarm milk to make a thin batter, salt according to taste, one 
gill home-made yeast. 

Add enough lukewarm milk to the rye to make a thin bat- 
ter, with salt ; beat it well, then add the yeast ; when they are 
light, bake them on a griddle, as buckwheat cakes. 

503., Milk and Butter Cakes— Ingredients— ^ of a lb. of flour, 
Yz lb. of butter, yi, lb. of sugar, I teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, as 
much milk as will form a dough. 

Cut up the butter in the flour, add the sugar and spices by 
degrees ; stir in as much milk as will make a dough ; knead it 
well, roll it out in sheets, cut in cakes, butter your tins, lay 
them on so as not to touch, and bake in a moderate oven. 

504. Sponge Jelly Cake — Ingredients— 3 eggs, 4 oz. of sugar, i 
cup of flour, I dessertspoonful of baking powder, 3 tablespoonfuls of 
boiling water. 

Mix the baking powder with the flour, and beat each of 
the eggs separately. Then mix all the ingredients together, 
and bake in jelly tins in a brisk oven. When cool, chocolate 



154 The Dominion Cook Book. 

frosting put between the cakes makes them very delicious, or 
jelly if preferred. 

505. Jelly Rolls — Ingredients — 3 eggs, % a cupful of butter, 1% tea- 

spoonful of baking powder, J^ of a cup of pulverized sugar, \ cup- 
ful of flour, a little salt. 

Bake in shallow pans — a dripping pan well buttered is good 
for this purpose ; put in the dough till it is about half an inch 
thick ; take it carefully from the tins when baked and lay on a 
cloth ; spread jelly over it evenly with a knife ; roll while hot ; 
if this is not done the cake will crumble. 

506. Sponge Jelly Cake (Rolled)- -Ingredients— 5 eggs, I cup 

of sugar, I cup of flour, and i teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Beat the yolks and sugar to a cream, add the whites, beaten 
to a stiff froth; then the flour, in which the baking powder has 
been mixed. Bake in a dripping-pan. When done, turn out 
on a cloth, spread jelly on the bottom of the cake, and roll 
from the side. 

507. Roll Jelly Cake — Ingredients — i^ cups of brown sugar, 3 eggs, 

I cup of milk, 2 cups of flour, I teaspoonful of cream of tartar, I 
teaspoonful of soda, I teaspoonful of lemon or vanilla essence. 

Thoroughly beat the eggs and sugar together ; mix the 
cream of tartar and soda with the milk, stirring in the flavoring 
also ; next mix in the flour ; spreacf them upon a long pan, 
and as soon as done spread jelly on the top and roll. 

508. Johnny Cake — Ingredients — I pt. of Indian meal, i teacupful 

of sugar, I pt. of milk, 2 eggs, i teaspoonful of butter, salt to taste, 
I teaspoonful of dissolved saleratus. 

Mix the butter and sugar with the mealj boil half the milk. 
Add the dissolved saleratus and the eggs, after they have been 
well beaten, to the remaining half of cold milk. Pour the boil- 
ing milk over the meal and let it cool. Then add the cold 
milk and saleratus. Bake in a shallow pan. 

509. Indian Meal Breakfast Cakes— Ingredients— i qt. of 

Indian meal, 2 eggs, I teaspoonful of dissolved saleratus, ]^ oj, of 
butter, salt to taste, milk sufficient to make a thick batter. 

Beat the eggs very thick and light. Cut up the butter into 
the meal ; then pour over enough . boiling water to wet it. 
When it is cool add the eggs and salt ; pour the dissolved 
saleratus into the milk, and add as much milk as will make it 
into a thick batter. Butter square tin' pans, fill them about 
two-thirds full, and bake in a quick oven. When done, cut 
into squares and serve hot 



Bread and Cakes. 155 



510. Icmg; for Cakes (i)— Ingredients— 4 eggs, i lb. of finely 

powdered white sugar, vanilla, strawberry, lemon, or any other 
flavorine;. 

Take the whites of the eggs, and beat well adding the sugar 
to stiffen in small quantities ; continue until you have beaten 
the eggs to a stiff froth ; it will take about half an hour if well 
beaten all the time ; if not stiff enough then add more sugar ; 
spread carefully on the cake with a broad bladed knife ; to 
color icing yellow, put the grated peel of a lemon (or orange) 
into a piece of muslin, strain a little juice through it and press 
hard into the other ingredients. Strawberry juice or cranberry 
syrup colors a pretty pink color. 

51 1. Icins for Cakes (2)— Ingredients— The whites of 2 eggs, }i 

lb. of castor sugar, and the juice of a lemon or a few drops of orange 
flower water. 

Beat the mixture until it hangs upon the fork in flakes, then 
spread over the cake, dipping the knife in cold water occasion- 
ally; stand it before the fire, and keep turning the cake 
constantly, or the sugar will catch and turn brown ; as scon as 
it begins to harden it may be removed ; the icing must not be 
put on until the cake itself is cold, otherwise it will not set. A 
few drops of cochineal will color it if desired. 

512. Excellent Frosting. 

Take one cupful of granulated sugar and four tablespoonfuls 
of hot water, boil them together until it threads from the spoon, 
stirring often. Beat the white of one egg until firm ; when the 
sugar is ready set it from the stove long enough to stop 
boiling, then pour on to the egg slowly, but continually, beat- 
ing rapidly ; continue to beat until of the right consistency to 
spread on the cake and flavor while beating ; it hardens very 
quickly after it is ready to put on the cake, so it is best to have 
the white of another egg ready to add a littte if it gets too hard 
to spread smoothly. Boil the sugar the same as for candy ; 
when right for candy it is right for frosting ; if at last it hardens 
very rapidly it has been boiled too hard ; but a little white of 
egg will rectify it. Or if not boiled enough (that is, if it 
remains too thin after beaten until cold) put in pulverized 
sugar, adding a little and beating hard, then if not just right, a 
little more and beat again until thick enough. The one thing 
is to have the sugar boiled just right ; if you hit that point you 
will not have a bit of trouble, if not, it will require " doctoring," 



156 The DoMfNioN Cook Book. 



as I have told you. A good deal depends upon stirring the 
sugar into the white of the egg at first ; if too fast or too slow 
it will cook the egg in lumps ; if you should not get it just 
right at first do not be discouraged j when once you get it 
perfect you will never make it any other way. This quantity 
is for one cake. 

513. Almond Icing' for Calces— Ingredients— 4 eggs, a small 

quantity of rose water, and to every lb. of sweet almonds add i lb. 
of powdered loaf sugar. 

Blanch and pound the almonds until of the consistency of 
thick cream, wetting now and then with a little rose water ; next 
beat the whites of the eggs to a firm froth ; add to the almonds 
mixing in the sugar, and stir all well together (be sure it is nice 
and smooth). After spreading on the^cakes cover with plain 
icing, after this, if desired, pop it in the oven to dry, and 
harden. 

514. Chocolate Icing for Cakes (Simple)— Ingredients— X 
cake chocolate, yi cupful sweet milk, sugar, 2 dessertspoonfuls of 
corn starch, a teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Mix together the chocolate, milk, and starch ; boil for two 
minutes, flavor with the vanilla, and sweeten with powdered 
white sugar to taste. 

515. Plain Fruit Cakes— Ingredients— l lb. of flour, }( lb. of 

dripping, Z teaspoonfiils of baking powder, a little allspice and salt, 
^ lb. of currants, }^ lb. of white sugar, and yi pint of milk. 

Mix into the flour the baking powder and salt, then with 
the hands rub the dripping in the flour until it resembles 
bread-crumbs. Add the currants, allspice and sugar. Take 
care that the ingredients are well mixed ; pour in the milk and 
mix with a wooden spoon. Grease a quartern tin and pour 
the mixture into it ; bake for one hour. To ensure the cake 
being done stick a piece of broom straw into it. This answers 
the same purpose as a knife and is better, as the knife is apt to 
make the cake heavy. Turn the cake on end to allow the 
steam to evaporate. 

516. Farmer's Cake — Ingredients — I cupful of dried sour apples, 

I cupful sugar, I cupful golden syrup, i small cupful of butter, i 
small cupful of sour millc, I teaspoonful of soda, cinnamon and 
cloves, I pt. of flour, I egg. 

Mince the apples and soak over night; now let them 
simmer with the syrup for two hours. Mix other ingredients 



Bread and Cakes. 157 

m 

as you would for any cake. Add apples and syrup when cool. 
Bake in tins, the oven must not be too hot. Should take half 
an hour. 

517. Plain Fruit Cake (2)— Ingredients— i lb. of flour, X 1^. of 

raisins, 4 oz. of dripping, 4 oz. of white sugar, a teacupful of milk, 
I egg, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a little salt, I oz. of lemon 
peel. 

Add to the flour the baking powder' and salt ; rub the 
dripping into the flour with your hands. Take care it is well 
incorporated. Stone the raisins, grate the lemon rind, and 
with the sugar add to the other ingredients. Well whisk the 
egg, and mix in the milk, adding to the mixture ; thoroughly 
mix. Grease a cake tin and bake for an hour. Proceed to 
test if done, as above.^ 

518. Soda Cake— Ingredients— I lb. of flour, 3 oz. of butter, 8 oz. of 

sugar, X P'- °f milk, 3 eggs, }i lb. of currants ; I teaspoonful of 
carbonate of soda, grate in a quarter of a nutmeg. 

Beat the whole well and lightly together. Remember that 
the soda should only be stirred into the ingredients just before 
putting it (in a well buttered pan) into the oven. Bake it for 
about an hour and a quarter. 

519. Economical Fruit Cake— Ingredients — 5 oz. of butter, 2 lbs. 

of flour, }4 lb. of sugar, i lb. of currants, I gill of yeast, enough 
milk to make a thick batter, i tablespoonful of powered cinnamon. 

Mix the flour, leaving out a quarter of a pound, with the 
butter cut in small pieces, the sugar, cinnamon and fruit ; add 
milk enough to form a thick batter, and lastly stir in the yeast. 
Mix it over night, and set it away to rise ; in the morning stir 
in the remainder of the flour, and let it rise ; when light, 
mould it out very lightly ; butter your pan, and bake it in an 
oven about as hot as for bread. 

520. New York Plum Cake— Ingredients — i lb. of butter, i lb. of 

flour, 2 lbs of raisins, seeded, 2 lbs. of currants, X °^- °f ground, 
cloves, I lb. of sugar, I lb. of citron, cut in small, thin pieces, 8 
eggs, }4 oz. of ground cinnamon ; j4^ oz. ground mace, }^ oz. of 
grated nutmeg. 

Slice the citron, pick, wash and dry the currants, seed the 
raisins, and mix the fruit together, and dredge over it as much 
flour as will adhere to it. Prepare the spice. Stir the butter 
and sugar till it is smooth and light. Beat the eggs very light, 
and stir them into the butter and sugar. Add the flour and 



158 The Dominion Cook Book. 

fruit gradually; beat the batter till the fruit is thoroughly 
mixed with it, then add slowly the spice. Beat the mixture 
very hard for ten or fifteen minutes. Line your pans with two 
thicknesses of stout white paper, which should be well buttered ; 
pour in the batter, and bake from four to five hours. Rose 
water and lemon may be used to flavor it ; a wine glass of rose 
water, and as much lemon as to give it a taste. 

521. Plum Cake— Ingredients — I lb. each of butter, sugar and flour, 

10 eggs, I lb. of raisins, ^ lb. each of currants and sliced citron, a 
teaspoonful of ground cloves, i of mace, I nutmeg, the juice and 
grated peel of a lemon, ^ a coffee cupful of molasses, i teaspoonful 
of cream oJ,tartar, ^ teaspoonful of soda. 

Beat the butter till it is soft and creamy, then add the 
sugar. Beat the whites and the yolkst of the eggs separately ; 
stir the yolks in with the butter and sugar ; stir the flour in 
giadually (having first mixed one heaping teaspoonful of cream 
of taxtar^ith it^. ' "When the flour is about half worked in, put 
1n half a teaspoonful of^oda dissolved in as little water as is 
possible to use ; then add the whites of the eggs, and lastly 
the fruit, which is well covered with the rest of the flour. Bake 
in a large tin, with a buttered paper on the sides as well as on 
the bottom ; it will^eed to bake slowly for five hours. Then, 
do not attempt to lift it from the tin until it is perfectly cold. 
This should be made several days before it is used. 

522. A Ricti Plum Cake— Ingredients— I lb. of fresh butter, i lb. of 

powdered loaf sugar, I lb. of flour, l^ lbs. of currants, 2 lbs. candied 
peel, I lb. sweet almonds, 2 oz. allspice, % oz. of cinnamon (both 
these in powder) 10 eggs. 

Beat the butter to a cream, and add the sugar ; stir till 
light, and put in the spices ; in fifteen minutes work in the eggs 
two or three at a time, then add the orange, lemon, and citron 
peel and currants, and mix them well with the almonds, 
blanched and cut small ; last of all add the flour ; bake in a 
hot oven for three hours, in a tin hoop with plenty of paper 
underneath. 

523. Seed Cake— Ingredients — 10 oz. of flour, 2 oz. of sugar, 2 tea- 

.gpoonfuls of baking powder, and one of carraway seeds, I egg, 3 oz. 
butter, a little salt, and halffa glass of milk. 

Mix the baking powder and salt in the flour, rub in the 
butter (with the hands). Add the sugar and carraway seeds, 
taking care to thoroughly blend them. Well whisk the egg 



Bread and Cakes. 159 

and add the milk to it, add to the other ingredients and beat 
well for about ten minutes. Grease a baking tin and pour the 
mixture in. It will take about one hour to bake. 

524. Another Seed Cake (Good)— Ingredients— i lb. of butter, 

12 oz. of sifted white sugar, 6 eggs, nutmeg grated and powdered 
mace to taste, i lb. of flour, ^ oz. of carraway seeds. 

Beat the butter until of the consistency of a thin paste ; 
sift in the flour. Add the remaining ingredients excepting the 
eggs, mixing all well together. Beat the eggs separately, add 
to the other ingredients and beat the mixture for ten or twelve 
minutes. Line a tin with buttered paper and put the cake in 
and allow to bake for about one and a half or two hours. 

525. Seed Biscuits — Ingredients — 18 oz. of flour, 6 oz. of sugar, 6oz. 

of butter, ^ oz. of carraway seeds, 3 eggs. 

Beat the butter until it is of the consistency of cream. 
Work in gradually the flour, sugar, and carraway seeds. When 
thoroughly mixed add the eggs, well whisked. Roll out the 
paste, cut into fancy shapes, and bake for a quarter of an hour. 
It is an improvement to brush over the tops- with a little milk, 
strewing a little white sugar over them. 

526. Rice Cake — Ingredients — 2 handfuls of rice, a little less than a 

quart of milk, sugar to taste, rind of a lemon cut in one piece, a 
small stick of cinnamon, 4 eggs, a small quantity of candied citron. 

Pick and wash in two or three waters the rice and put it to 
cook in the milk, sweeten to taste, add the lemon rind and 
cinnamon. Let the rice simmer gently until tender and has 
absorbed all the milk. Turn it into a basin to cool, and 
remove the lemon rind and cinnamon. Then stir into it the 
yolks of four and the white of one egg. Add a little candied 
citron cut in small pieces. Butter and bread crumb a plain 
cake mould j put the mixture into it and bake in a quick oven 
half an hour. 

527. Rich Rtce Cake — Ingredients — i lb. of ground rice, I lb. of 

flour, I lb. of sugar, 17 eggs, 36 drops of essence of lemon, or, if 
preferred, the rind of 2 lemons, ^ lb. of butter. 

Whisk the egg separately ; beat the butter to a cream, and 
add the yolks of the eggs, mixihg well. Then add the flour, 
rice and lemon (if lemon rind take care it is finely minced). 
Beat the mixture for about ten minutes, and lastly add the 
whites of the eggs. Beat again for a quarter of an hour j put 



i6o The Dominion Cook Book. 

into a buttered mould. It will take about an hour and a half 
to bake. 

528. Rice Cakes — Ingredients — 8 oz. of rice flour, 4 oz. of white 

sugar, 4 oz. of butter, 3 eggs. 

Work the butter to a creamy substance, add the sugar and 
flour, and mix in the well whisked eggs. Roll upon pastry 
board and shape into cakes with a cake cutter. Bake in a 
slow oven. 

529. Jumbles — Ingredients — 2 lbs. of flour, l^ lbs. of sugar, half a 

pint of milk, 3 eggs, ^ lb. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of dissolved 
saleratus, essence of lemon according to taste. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the eggs, which 
must have been whisked till very thick, and some essence of 
lemon ; then pour in the milk and saleratus. The saleratus 
should be dissolved in water, and a teaspoonful of this solution 
be mixed with the milk. Bake in the form of jumbles. 

530. Indian Loaf Cake— Ingredients — I lb. of Indian meal, % "b. 

of butter, 2 eggs, }4 lb. of sugar, ^ lb. of raisins, X ^^- °f currants, 
I eggspoonful soda. 

Cut up the butter in the Indian meal ; pour over it as 
much boiling milk as will make a thick batter ; beat the eggs 
very light ; when the batter is cool pour them into it. Seed 
the raisins ; wash, pick, and dry the currants ; mix them with 
the raisins, and dredge as much wheat flour on them as will 
adhere to them. Stir the fruit into the batter, and add the 
sugar and soda (dissolved in hot water). Bake it in a moderate 
oven two hours. 

531. Cream Cake and Chocolate— Ingredients— % of a cupful 

of butter, 2 cupfuls of white sugar, 4 eggs, }4 a glass of milk, 3 
cupfuls of prepared flour. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the yolks of the 
eggs, well beaten, the milk and then the whites of the eggs also 
well beaten to a froth, alternately with the flour; when cold 
spread with the following filling : — A cupful of milk, a dessert- 
spoonful of corn starch, an egg,' a teaspoonful of vanilla, half 
a cupful of sugar. Scald the milk ; mix in the corn starch, 
previously moistened with a little cold milk ; pour over the 
well beaten eggs and sugar ; allow to remain on the fire until 
thick, stirring well. Flavor when cold. Serve with chocolate. 

532. -Daisy Cake— Ingredients— >^ cupful sugar, }i cupful butier, 3 

cupfuls flour, 2 teaspoonhils baking powder, }4 cupful currants, a 
little nutmeg, cupful of milk, 2 eggs. 



Bread and Cakes. i6i 



Mix the baking powder in the flour, then rub in the butter, 
add sugar, currants, and nutmeg, beat the eggs and add to the 
milk ; now moisten and mix thoroughly, put in buttered tin 
and bake half an hour. 

533. Queen Cakes — Ingredients — I lb. of dried flour, same of sifted 

sugar and of washed clean currants, t lb. of butter, 8 eggs. 

Mix the flour, sugar and currants ; wash the butter in rose 
water, beat it well, then mix with it the eggs, yolks and whites 
beaten separately, and put in the dry ingredients by degrees ; 
beat the whole for one hour ; butter little tins and put the 
mixture in, only filling half full, and bake ; sift a little fine 
sugar over just as you put into the oven. 

534. Queen Cakes (2) — Ingredients — I lb. of fine flour, % lb. of 

powdered white sugar, the same of butter, and of currants, }4 pt. of 
cream, 3 eggs, a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, flavoring, either 
lemon or almond. 

When the butter is beaten to a cream, sift in the flour, then 
put in the currants and sugar, being careful to mix the ingred- 
ients well together; beat the eggs, pour in the cream and 
flavoring and pour into the flour, etc. Finally, mix in the 
carbonate of soda, and mix well for quarter of an hour. Pour 
the paste into little buttered tins and bake about twenty 
miniites. 

535. Handy Cake — Ingredients — 2 cupfuls of flour, 2 cupfiils of sugar, 

3 eggs, 4 teaspoonfiils of baking powder, i cupful of butter, i gill of 
boiling water. 

This is a very handy cake, any filling convenient may be 
used. 

536. Ginger Cup Cake — Ingredients — 2 cupfuls of butter, 2 cupfuls 

of sugar, I cupful of molasses, I cupful of cream, 3 eggs, I table- 
spoonful of dissolved saleiabis, 4 heaping cupfuls of flour, }4 a cupful 
of ginger. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; whisk the eggs light, 
and add to it ; then stir in the other ingredients. Butter a pan 
or earthen mould, and pour in the mixture. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven, or it may be baked in queen cake pans. 

537. Ginger Nuts— Ingredients— J^ lb. of butter, }i lb. of sugar, i 

pt. of molasses, 2 oz. ginger, I tablespoonful of cinnamon, as much 
flour us will form a dough, }4 an oz. of ground cloves and allspice 
mixed. 

Stir the butter and sugar together ; add the spice, ginger, 
II 



1 62 The Dominion Cook Book. 

molasses, and flour enough to form a dough. Knead it well, 
make it out in small cakes, bake them on tins in a very moder- 
ate oven. Wash them over with molasses and water before 
they are put in to bake. 

538. Ginger Nuts (2) — Ingredients — %, lb. of butter, 2 lbs. of flour, 

I pt. of molasses, 2 eggs, 6 oz. ground ginger, 3 oz. ground allspice, 
I oz. powdered cinnamon. 

Mix in the same manner as for gingerbread. Roll out the 
dough into ropes about half inch thick ; cut these transversely 
into pieces, which roll into small balls ; place these at a Uttle 
distance apart, upon greased baking sheets, and flatten them 
down with the palm of your hand ; when the sheet is full, wash 
them over the tops with a brush dipped in thin molasses, and 
bake in a moderate oven. 

539. Ginger Bread— Ingredients — yi lb. of moist sugar, 2 oz. of 

ground ginger, i lb. of flour, yi lb. of butter, ^ lb. of treacle. 

Put the butter and treacle into a jar near the fire ; when 
the butter is melted mix it with the. flour while warm, and 
spread the mixture thinly on buttered tins, mark it in squares 
before baking, and as soon as baked enough separate it at the 
marks before it has time to harden. Time to bake, fifteen 
minutes. 

540. Honeycomb Gingerbread— Ingredients— >^ lb. of flour, 

Yz lb. of the coarsest brown sugar, ^ lb. of butter, i dessertspoonful 
of allspice, 2 dessertspoonfuls of ground ginger, the peel of half a 
lemon grated, and the whole of the juice ; mix all these ingredients 
together, adding about ^ lb. of treacle so as to make a paste 
sufficiently thin to spread upon sheet tins. 

Beat well, butter the tins, and spread the paste very thinly 
over them, bake it in a rather slow oven, and watch it till it is 
done ; withdraw the tins, cut it in squares with a knife to the 
usual size of wafer biscuits (about four inches square), and roll 
each piece round the fingers as it is raised from the tin. 

541. Drop Ginger Cakes — Ingredients — Putin a bowl i cupful of 

brown sugar, I of molasses, I of butter, then pour over them I cupful 
boiling water, stir "Well ; add 1 egg, well beaten, 2 teaspoonfiils of 
soda, 2 tablespoonfuls each of ginger and cinnamon, yi, teaspoonfiil 
of ground cloves, 5 cupfuls of flour. 

Stir altogether and drop with a spoon on buttered tins; 
bake in a quick oven, taking care not to burn them. 

542. Ginger Biscuits — Ingredients — Rub 4 oz of fresh butter into yi 

lb. of flour, add 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, yi oz. of ground ginger, 
and I egg beaten up with a little milk to a smooth paste. 



Bread and Cakes. 163 

Bake on buttered paper for ten minutes. Keep the biscuits 
in a tin in a dry place. 

543. Apple Csike — Ingredients — l}i lbs. of apples cut and cored, I 

lb. white sugar, the juice of 3 lemons, and about half the rinds 
grated. 

Simmer in a stew pan for four hours until it becomes quite 
stiff. Then put into a mould, in which let it remain all night. 
Before turning out plunge the mould in warm water to prevent 
it sticking. 

544. Washing^ton Cake— Ingredients^i lb. of sugar, % lb. of 

butter, 4 eggs, i lb. flour, I teacupful of milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of 
dissolved saleratus, yi a teaspoonful of cinnamon, half a nutmeg, I 
lb. dried currants, washed, picked, and wiped dry. 

Beat the butter and sugar until it is smooth and light. 
Whisk the eggs till they are thick, and add them to the butter 
and sugar. Stir in the flour and spice. Flour the fruit and 
stir it in. Beat the whole very hard for fifteen minutes. Then 
stir in the saleratus. Line the sides and bottom of your pan 
with thick paper ; butter it well, pour in the mixture, and bake 
it in a moderate oven. 

545. Metropolitan Cake— Ingredients— Light part: 2 cupfuls 

sugar, ^ cupful butter, I- cupful sweet milk, 2^ cupfuls of flour, 
whites of 5 eggs, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Dark part : ^ 
cupful molasses, }i cupful flour, I cupful raisins, I teaspoonful 
cinnamon, ^ teaspoonful cloves, 2 large spoonfuls of the light part. 

Bake the light part in two cakes. Bake the dark part in 
one cake and place between the two light cakes with jelly or 
frosting. 

546. Gateau de Savoye (French Sponee Cake)— Ingred- 

ients — (Take the weight of 8 eggs in their shells) of finely powdered 
white sugar and half their quantity of potato flour, 2 eggs, juice of 
half a lemon, some (glace) sugar (icing), preserved cherries, and 
sugar plums. 

Put the sugar and the yolks of the eggs in a basin, and beat 
them well together with an egg whisk '.r with a fork until the 
mixture assumes a white creamy appearance. Add essence of 
lemon to taste. Sprinkle in (beating the mixture all the time) 
half the potato flour, and add the whites of four eggs whisked 
to a stiff froth. Then put in, in the same manner, the rest of 
the flour; and lastly add the remaining four whites beaten, to 
a froth. As soon as the composition is smoothly mixed to- 



164 The Dominion Cook Book. 

gether — and this must be done quickly — pour it into a buttered 
plain mould, and bake it in a slow oven. When quite done, 
turn the cake out of the mould and leave it to get cold. In the 
meantime put the whites of two eggs into a basin, with the 
juice of half a lemon and some glace sugar ; stir the mixture 
briskly with a wooden spoon, adding more glace sugar as it gets 
thin, until it becomes a smooth white paste of the consistency 
of butter. Lay the mixture alL over the cake with a knife, and 
lay it on as smoothly as possible. Put the cake in the oven 
just long enough for the icing to glaze. Take it out, and before 
the icing has time to cool ornament the cake with preserved 
cherries, small coloured sugar plums, etc., in any pattern you 
please. 

547. Thanksgiving Cake— Ingredients — \ lb. butter, I lb. sugar, 

I lb. flour, a small teaspoonful of cinnamon and mace mixed, a very 
small nutmeg grated, 3 oz. of candied lemon peel, 2 oz. of blanched 
and chopped almonds, 6 oz. of currants, 8 eggs. 

Beat the sugar and butter to a cream, whisk the eggs and 
add to the former, now mix in the flour slowly, stirring all the 
time, add remaining ingredients, thoroughly mix, place in 
buttered tins and bake about two hours. 

548. Sponge Cake— Ingredients— S eggs, yi lb. white sugar, the 

grated rind and juice of i lemon, % lb. flour. 

Separate the yolks from the whites. Beat the yolks and 
sugar together until they are very light ; then add the whites, 
after they have been whisked to a dry froth ; alternately with 
the flour stir in the lemon, put the mixture in small pans, sift 
sugar over them, and bake immediately. 

549. Italian Sponge Cake— Ingredients — i lb. of white sugar, 18 

eggs, I lb. potato flour. 

Put into a large basin the sugar and half the number of 
eggs ; beat for ten minutes with an egg whisk. Then place 
the basin in a large vessel containing hot water. Add the rest 
of the eggs, and continue beating the mixture for ten minutes 
longer, sprinkle in the potato flour and continue beating, taking 
care that it is mixed very slowly with the eggs and sugar. Pour 
into a buttered mould and bake in a slow oven. 

550. Hickory Nut Cake— Ingredients— 1>^ cupfuls of sugar, ^ a 

cupful of butter, a scant half;cupful of sweet milk, 2 cupfuls of flour, 
3 sSg^> 2 teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar, i of soda or 3 teaspoonfiils of 
baking powder. 



Bread and Cakes. 165 



Bake in layers. Filling for same : — One cupful of sweet 
cream or milk ; let it come to a boil ; then stir in one table- 
spoonful of corn starch which has previously been wet with 
cold milk ; sweeten to taste ; let it just boil up ; remove from 
the fire, and stir in one pint of pulverized hickory nut meats. 
Flavor to taste, and when partially cool spread between each 
two layers. 

551. Lady Fingers — Ingredients — 4 oz. of sugar, 4 yolks of eggs, mix 

well ; 3 02. flour, a pinch of salt. 

Beat the four whites and stir in gradually ; butter a shallow 
pan and squirt the mixture through a piece of stiff paper rolled 
up ; dust with sugar and bake in a not too hot oven. 

552. Squash Cakes— Ingredients— Sieve 2^ cupfuls of cooked 

squash ; add a pint of milk, 2 eggs, a pint of flour, i teaspoonful of 
sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and a little salt. 

Beat together until smooth and fry brown iij butter. 

553. Strawberry Short-Oake— Ingredients— Butter, flour, straw- 

berries, sugar, whipped cream. 

Make a rich, short crust with butter and flour, allowing one 
ounce more of flour than butter ; bake in flat tins of equal size 
(the pastry when baked should be about an inch thick) ; open 
the shortcake, butter it well, and cover one-half with a layer of 
strawberries previously mixed with sugar ; have alternate layers 
of berries and pastry, finishing with the former, over which 
place a layer of whipped cream. 

554- Short-Cake (Spanish)— Ingredients— 3 eggs, }4 a cupful of 
butter, I lupful of sugar, f^ of a cupful of sweet milk, a little cinna- 
mon, 2 cupfuls of flour and i teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Stir the flour in, do not knead it; the eggs, butter and 
sugar should be beaten together till very light; bake in a 
shallow tin ; when it is done spread a thin frosting over the 
top ; make this of the white of one egg, a little pulverized 
sugar and a teaspoonful of cinnamon ; set it in the oven to 
brown. 

555. Short-Cake (Blackberry)— Ingredients— z qts. of flour, 3 
tablespoonfiils of butter, 2 of lard, 2}i cupfuls of butter milk, or 
thick sour milk, yolks of 2 eggs, a teaspoonful of soda and salt. 

Mix the salt in the flour, then work in the shortening ; beat 
the yolks of the eggs ; dissolve the soda in a little hot water 
and add to the above proportion of milk ; add these to the 



i66 The Dominion Cook Book. 

first mixture ; quickly make into a paste, roll out half an inch 
thick, having upper and under crust. Lay the paste in a well 
greased baking tin, cover thickly with berries, sprinkle with 
sugar, cover with the top crust. Bake about half an hour; 
cut into squares and eat (splitting these open) with sugar and 
butter. 

556. Short-Cake (Scotch)— Ingredients— 4 oz. of white sugar, }i 

lb. of slightly salted butter, i lb. of flour. 

Mix the flour and butter with the hands ; then add the 
sugar, and work all into a smooth ball ; then roll out until it is 
an inch thick ; prick over with a fork and pinch round the 
edges, and bake for one-half hour, in an oven with a moderate 
fire, in a round or square pan, according to taste. 

557. Short-Cake (Raspberry or Huckleberry)— Ingredients 

— I qt. of flour, 2 tablespoonfuls each of butter and lard, 2 half 
cupfuls of butter milk, yolks of 2 eggs, a. teaspoonful of soda and 
salt, I qt. of raspberries or huckleberries. 

Sort the flour ; chop up the lard and butter in the flour, 
whisk well the yolks of the eggs ; dissolve the soda in a little 
warm water. Make all these ingredients into a soft paste. Roll 
lightly into two sheets ; lay the bottom crust in a greased square 
pan ; strew thickly with berries, sprinkle with sugar and cover 
with the upper crust. Bake about half an hour ; cut into 
squares and send to table piled upon a dish. Split and eat 
with butter and sugar. 

558. Chocolate Cake — Ingredients — }i a lb. of butter, yolks of 12 

eggs, ^ lb. of white sugar, same of ground almonds, X ^^- °^ 

chocolate, 2 tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, }4 teaspoonful of pounded 

cloves. 

Melt the butter and stir it until it froths, beat the yolks of 

the eggs and stir into the butter ; add the sugar and pounded 

almonds, grated chocolate, cinnamon and pounded cloves, 

beat well for fifteen minutes ; then beat the whites of the eggs 

to a froth, and add these to the above mixture ; butter the 

mould, and bake the above in a moderate oven for an hour 

and a quarter. 

559. Chocolate Cake (2). 

Beat for ten minutes the yolks of three eggs, stir them into 
the butter, add two ounces of sugar, two ounces of Jordan 
almonds, blanched and pounded, two ounces of powdered 



Bread and Cakes. 167 

chocolate, half a teaspoonful of cinnamon, and the same of 
cloves, pounded. Stir well for. a quarter of an hour, then add 
the whites of the eggs, beaten to a froth; butter a mould and 
bake in a moderate oven for an hour. 

560. Ratafias — Ingredients — 8 oz. of sweet almonds, 4 of bitter, Ig oz. 

of white sugar, 4 eggs. ,'Tlj* 

Blanch and skin the almonds, and pound them in a marble 
mortar with the white of an egg ; add gradually the sugftiv a^d 
the whites of three eggs, having previously well whisked them. 
Take a large sheet of cartridge paper and drop the mixture 
through a biscuit syringe upon it and bake for about twelve 
minutes. The oven should be rather quick, and the cakes 
should not be larger than a 25c. piece. 

561. Macaroons — Ingredients — 4 oz. of almonds, 4 spoonfiils of orange 

flower water, i lb. of white sugar, wafer paper, 4 eggs. 

Blanch the almonds, and pound with the orange flower 
water ; whisk the whites of fqur eggs to a froth, then mix it, 
and a pound of sugar sifted with the almonds, to a paste ; and 
laying a sheet of wafer paper on a tin, put it on in different 
little cakes, the shape of macaroons. Bake from fifteen to 
twenty minutes. 

563. Malaga Cake — Ingredients — i cupful of butter, 2 cupfuls of 
sugar, ^ cupful of sweet milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
3 cupfuls of flour, whites of 6 eggs. Filling : — Whites of 3 eggs 
beaten with sugar, I cupful of seeded and chopped raisins, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of extracts of lemon. 

Beat to a cream the butter and sugar, add the milk ; mix 
the baking powder with the flour ; beat the whites of the eggs 
to a froth, stir all together and flavor with lemon. Bake in 
sheets, and when done spread with the above filling. 

563. Charlotte a La Polonaise— Ingredients— A sponge cake, 
cream, sugar, sweetmeats. 

Make a sponge cake, cut it transversely, dip each piece in 
cream, and then place them back where they were, so as to 
give the cake its original form as near as possible. When thus 
reformed, cover it with cream, dust with sugar, and decorate it 
with any kind of sweatmeats. Besides the sweetmeats that are 
placed here and there all round, some currant jelly may be 
used to decorate. Place on ice for some time and serve. 



The Dominion Cook Book. 



564. Cocoanut Cake— Ingredients— 6 oz. of butter, i lb. of sugar, 

I lb. of flour, I large cupful of milk, i teaspoonful of soda, 3 of 
cream of tartar. 

Rub the butter into the flour ; add the sugar and cream of 
tartar ; well whisk the eggs ; dissolve the soda in a little warm 
water, adding these to other ingredients. Bake in layers as for 
jelly cake. Icing to place between the layers : — eight ounces 
of white sugar, whites of two eggs. Well whisk /the eggs and 
sugar, add the grated cocoanut and place between the layers. 

565. Scotch Snow Cake— Ingredients— 7 oz. white sugar, I lb, 

arrowroot, yi lb. butter, whites of 7 eggs, any flavoring that is 
preferred. 

Beat the butter until like cream, and while beating add 
gradually the arrowroot and sugar. When the whites of the 
eggs are beaten to a stiff froth, mix with the other ingredients 
and beat for a quarter of an hour. Flavor to taste, pour into 
buttered mould and bake for an hour and a quarter. 

566. Scotch Oat Cake — Ingredients — 8 oz. Scotch oatmeal, a small 

spoonful of butter, as much carbonate of soda as will lie on a 5c. 

piece. 
Place the butter in a teacup with the above proportion of 
soda, and pour upon this half a teacupful of hot water. Mix 
until both are melted. Having put the meal into a basin 
(holding about a pint) pour quickly the contents of the teacup 
upon it, and mix well with the point of a knife. Place upon 
the paste-board and with the knuckles spread it out gradually. 
Care must be taken that the edges do not crack. Sprinkle 
plenty of dry meal over it and roll with a crimped roller to the 
thickness of a quarter of an inch. Take care to keep the paste 
round. Then put the knife in the centre and divide into three. 
Place them upon a hot griddle, and as they get done move in 
order from a cool spot to a warmer. When they are done 
enough they will not be doughy. Remove from the fire on to 
a toaster before the fire and allow them to dry gradually, and 
as done remove from the fire, stand them on edge to allow to 
get cold. Proceed in this manner till the mixture is used. 

567. Rich Bride Cake— Ingredients — 5 lbs. sifted flour, 3 lbs. fresh 

butter, 2 lbs. white sugar, S lbs. currants, 1% lbs. ol sweet almonds, 
^ lb. of candied citron, 6 oz. each of candied orange and lemon 
peel, % oz. of mace, half a quarter of cloves, 17 eggs, 2 nutmegs, a 
little orange flower water. 
Blanch and pound the almonds, adding a Uttle orange 



Bread and Cakes. 169 

flower water to prevent oiling. Then proceed to work the 
butter with the hands until of the consistency of cream. Add 
the sugar. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and 
add to the butter and sugar. Beat the yolks of the eggs for 
twelve minutes, and add them to the flour, grated nutmeg, and 
finely powdered mace and cloves, beating the whole for three- 
quarters of an hour. Then proceed to add lightly the almonds, 
with the thinly sliced peel. Then beat for half an hour. 
Line your cake tin with buttered paper, and fill with the mixture. 
The oven should be tolerably quick, but great care must be 
taken that it is not too fierce, or the cake will brown before it 
begins to soak. It will take about six hours to bake. Test if 
done as in Recipe for " Plain Fruit Cake," No. 515. Turn on end 
to allow the steam to evaporate and spread with icing when 
cold. See Recipe for " Almond Icing," No. 513. 

568. White Bridecake. 

Take one pound of butter, put it into a basin and beat it 
with your hand till it comes to a fine cream, then add one and 
one-quarter pounds of pulverized sugar, and beat together until 
it is fine and white ; then add one pound of sifted flour, give it 
a stir and then add the whites of fourteen eggs ; continue to 
beat it and add another pound of flour and fourteen more 
whites ; beat well ; mix all together, paper your dish around 
the sides and bottom, put in your batter and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. 

569. Plain Luncheon Caice— Ingredients— >^ lb. of butter, 2 oz. 

of dripping, 3 eggs well beaten, % lb. moist sugar, ^ lb. of currants, 
% lb. sultanas, 2 oz. candied peel, ^ lb. of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. 

Melt the butter and dripping in the oven, let it stand till 
coolj then add the eggs, moist sugar, currants, sultanas, and 
candied peel, cut up finely. Have ready in a separate basin 
the flour mixed with two Jeaspoonfuls of baking powder ; and 
add this gradually to the other ingredients ; bake an hour and 
a half in a moderate oven. These cakes are excellent. 

570. Shrewsbury Cake — Ingredients — I lb. of sugar, pounded 

cinnamon, a little grated nutmeg, 3 lbs. of flour, a little rose water, 
3 eggs, melted butter. 

Sift the sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg into the flour (which 
must be of the finest kind) ; add the rose water to the eggs 
and mix with the flour, etc., then pour in enough melted butter 



170 The Dominion Cook Book. 

to make it a good thickness and roll out. Mould well, roll 
thinly, and cut into such shapes as you like. 

571. Marble Spice Cake— Ingredients— 31^ of a lb. of flour, well 

dried ; i lb. white sugar, yi. lb. of butter, whites of 14 eggs, I table- 
spoonful of cream tartar mixed with the flour. 

When the cake is mixed, take out about a teacupful of 
batter and stir into it one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one of 
mace, one of cloves, two of spice and one of nutmeg. Fill your 
mould about an inch deep with the white batter, and drop into 
this, in several places, a spoonful of the dark mixture ; then 
put in another layer of white, and add the dark as before ; 
repeat this until your batter is used up. This makes one large 
cake. 

572. Corn Starch Cake — Ingredients — 4 eggs, whites only ; ^ 

lb. of sugar, 1 cupful of butter, ^ cupful of corn starch, yi cupful of 
sweet milk, i cupful of flour, 2 teaspoonfiils baking powder, lemon 
or rose water flavoring. 

Cream the butter and sugar thoroughly either with the 
hand or a silver spoon ; mix the corn starch with the milk, and 
add ; then add the eggs, beaten stiff, next the sifted flour, into 
which the baking powder has been stirred. Put into well 
greased mould and bake. 

573. Potato Cake — Ingredients — A few mashed potatoes, melted 

butter, flour. 

Take the potatoes and stir in melted butter according to 
the quantity of potatoes used ; thicken to a paste with flour, 
bake in a quick oven and serve hot. 

574. Cracknels — Ingredients — I qt. of flour, ^ a nutmeg, 4 eggs, 

4 spoonfuls of rose water, 1 lb. of butter. 

Mix with the flour, the nutmeg grated, the yolks of the 
eggs, beaten, and the rose water, into a stiff paste with cold 
•R ater ; then roll in the butter and make into cracknel shape ; 
put them into a kettle of boiling water, and boil them till they 
swim, then take out, and put them into cold water j when 
hardened, lay them out to dry and bake on tin plates. 

575. Orange Biscuits — Ingredients — 4 whole Seville oranges, loaf 

sugar pounded. 

Boil the oranges in two or three waters until most of the 
bitterness has gone ; then cut them and remove the pulp and 
juice ; beat the outside very finely in a mortar, and add to it an 



Bread and Cakes. 171 

equal weight of fine white sugar, well pounded and sifted. 
When well mixed to a paste, spread it thinly on china dishes, 
and set to dry before the fire ; when half dry, cut into shapes, 
turn the other side up, dry that well, and then pack in boxes 
with layers of papers between. 

576. Oatmeal Biscuits— Ingredients— 6 oz. of flour, 3 oz. of oat- 

meal and white sugar, 3 oz. of butter, enough carbonate of soda to 
lie on a 5c. piece, I large egg. 

Melt the butter and add to the flour, oatmeal, sugar, and 
soda ; mix thoroughly ; put a tablespoonful of cold water into 
a basin and break the egg into it and whisk slightly ; add this 
to the other ingredients and mix smoothly ; turn on to a well 
floured board, roll as thinly as possible and cut into shapes 
with a cake cutter. Grease a baking tin, and bake for about 
twenty minutes. 

577. Rocl( Biscuits — Ingredients — % a doz. eggs, I lb. of white 

sugar, 9 oz. of flour, ^ lb. of currants. 

Beat the eggs until very light, add the sugar and mix 
thoroughly ; add the flour and currants, gradually mixing all 
the time. Place upon greased tins in the form of small pieces 
of rock. This is best done with a fork. Bake half an hour, 
and keep in a tin canister. 

578. Lemon Biscuits^Ingredients — i lb. of flour, Yz lb. of white 

sugar, X '^- °^ fresh butter, I oz. of lemon peel, I tablespoonful of 
lemon juice, 3 eggs. 

Add the butter to the flour and rub finely with the hands ; 
mince the lemon peel and stir it and the sugar into the former 
mixture ; well whisk the eggs and lemon juice, and thoroughly 
mix the whole. Drop from a spoon to a greased baking tin 
about two ^nches apart. Bake for twenty minutes. 

579. Cocoanut Biscuits— Ingredients — 6 oz, of cocoanut grated, 

9 oz. white sugar, 3 eggs. 
Whisk the eggs for about twelve minutes, then sprinkle in 
the sugar gradually, lastly the cocoanut ; form with your hands 
into little pyramids ; place upon white paper, and the paper on 
tin. Bake in a cool oven until slightly brown. 

580. Biscuit Powder (for Babies) 

Dry plain biscuits in a slow oven. Roll them with a rolling 
pin. Then grind in a marble mortar till reduced to powder. 
Keep in a tin canister. 



172 The Dominion Cook Book. 

581. Rice Biscuits— Ingredients— >^ lb. of ground rice, 50Z. of white 

sugar, 4 oz. of butter, 2 eggs. 

Well beat the butter ; sjir in gradually the ground rice and 
sugar ; well whisk the eggs and add to the other ingredients. 
Roll out on the paste board and cut into shapes with paste 
cutter. Place upon greased tin and bake a quarter of an hour 
in a slow oven. 

582. Soda Biscuits — Ingredients— 3 pts. of flour, i tablespoonful of 

butter and I tablespoonful of lard, a teaspoonful of salt and an 
even teaspoonful of cream of tartar, i teaspoonful of soda. 
Sift the cream of tartar with the flour dry, rub the butter 
and lard very thoroughly through it ; dissolve the soda in a 
pint of milk and mix all together. Roll out, adding as little 
flour as possible; cut with a biscuit cutter, and bake twenty min- 
utes in a quick oven. 

583. Plain and very Crisp Biscuits— Ingredients— i lb. of 

flour, yolk of I egg, some milk. 

Make into a very stiff paste ; beat it well, and knead till 
quite smooth ; roll very thin, and cut into biscuits. Bake 
them in a slow oven till quite dry and crisp. 

584. Hard Biscuits — Ingredients — 2 oz. butter, skimmed milk, i lb. 

of flour. 

Warm the butter in as much skimmed milk as will make a 
pound of flour into a very stiff paste, beat it with a rolling pin, 
and work it very smooth. Roll it thin and cut it into round 
biscuits ; prick them full of holes with a fork. About six 
minutes will bake them. 

585. Seed Biscuits — Ineredients — l lb. of flour, % lb. of sifted 

sugar, % lb. of butter, J4 oz. of caraway seeds, 3 eggs. 
Beat the butter to a cream ; add the flour, sugar and cara- 
way seeds ; and when these are well mixed, add the eggs, which 
should be well whisked. Roll out the paste, with a round cutter, 
and bake them in a moderate oven from ten to fifteen 
minutes. The tops of the biscuits may be brushed over with 
the white of an egg, and then a little sugar strewn over. 



^vxw 



PA5TPY ANn PIinniNfiS Rl 



PA5TRY AND PUDDINGS gfc^ 

^K ^^^^^^^C^^K2K2E 3E2K2B 



zEaEsacaca 



OBSERVATIONS. 



A good hand at pastry will use less butter and produce 
lighter crust than others. Salt butter is very good, and if 
well washed makes a good flaky crust. If the weather is warm 
the butter should be placed in ice water to keep it as firm as 
possible ; when lard is used take care it is perfectly sweet. 

In making pastry {See Pastry Recipes), as in other 
arts, "practice will make perfect;" it should be touched as 
lightly as possible, made in a cool place, and with hands per- 
fectly cool ; if possible, use a marble slab instead of a pastry 
board ; if the latter is used, it is better to procure it made of 
hardwood. 

It is important to use great expedition in the preparation of 
pastry, and care must be taken not to allow it to stand long 
before baking, or it will become flat and heavy, A brisk oven 
will be required for puff pastry ; a good plan to test the proper 
heat is to put a small piece of the paste in before baking the 
whole. Be sure that the oven is as near perfection as possible ; 
for, " an oven in which the heat is not evenly distributed can 
never produce a well baked pie or tart ; where there is an 
unequal degree of heat the pastry rises on the hottest side in 
the shape of a large bubble and sinks into a heavy indigestible 
lump on the coolest." This is a truism which many people 
must have discovered for themselves, as they would be well 
accustomed to the sight of miniaturamountains and tableland 
on their tarts and pies. Raised pie crust should have a good 
soaking heat, and glazed pastry rather a slack heat. When suet 
is used it must be perfectly free from skin and minced as finely 
as possible ; beef suet is considered the best. 

All moulds, pie dishes, patty pans, and vessels of all 
descriptions used for baking or boiling must be well buttered. 

173 



174 The Dominion Cook Book. 

The outside of a boiled pudding often tastes disagreeably, 
which arises from the cloth not being nicely washed, and kept 
in a dry place. It should be dipped in boiling water, squeezed 
dry, and floured when to be used. 

If bread, it should be tied loosely, if batter, tightly over. 

The water should boil quickly when the pudding is put in ; 
and it should be moved about for a minute, lest the ingredients 
should not mix. 

Batter pudding should be strained through a coarse sieve 
when all is mixed. In others the eggs separately. 

A pan of cold water should be ready, and the pudding 
dipped in as soon as it comes out of the pot, and then it will 
not adhere to the cloth. 

Very good puddings may be made without eggs ; but they 
must have as little milk as will mix, and must boil three or 
four hours. A spoonful of yeast will answer instead of eggs. 

Snow is an excellent substitute for eggs either in puddings 
or pancakes. Two large spoonfuls will supply the place of one 
egg, and the article it is used in will be equally good. This is 
a useful piece of information, especially as snow often falls at 
the season when eggs are the dearest. The snow may be taken 
up from any clean spot before it is wanted, and will not lose 
its virtue, though the sooner it is used the better. 

Note. — The yolks and whites beaten long and separately, 
make the article they are put into much hghter. 

586. Almond Pudding— Ingredients — % lb. sweet almonds, a large 

spoonful of rose water, 6 eggs, 3 spoonfuls of pounded white sugar, 
I qt. of milk, 3 spoonfuls of powdered crackers, 4 oz. of clarified but- 
ter, same of citron cut into pieces. 

Blanch and pound the almonds in the rose water ; beat the 
eggs to a stiff froth with the sugar, mix the milk with the 
crackers, butter and citron ; add almonds, etc. ; stir all together 
and bake in a small pudding dish with a lining and rim of 
pastry. This pudding is nicef eaten cold. Bake an hour and 
a half in a quick oven. 

587. Amber Pudding— Ingredients— 1 lb. of fresh butter, ^ lb. 

white sugar, 8 eggs, jam. 

Line a pudding dish with good puff paste, take the yolks of 
the eggs, mix with the sugar and butter cm the fire till it 
becomes thick, but not boiUng, whip the whites of the eggs to 



Pastry and Puddings. 175 

a fioth, and mix with the other when cold. Put -any sort of 
jam on the bottom of the dish, according to taste, and pour 
the mixture of eggs, etc., over it, and bake half an hour. 

588. Apple Pudding (Boiled)— Icgredients— Suet or butter crust, 

apples, sugar to taste, a little minced lemon peel, 2 tablespoonfuls 
lemon juice. 

Butter a pudding mould, line with the paste, pare, core and 
cut the apples into small pieces. Fill the basin and add the 
sugar, finely minced lemon peel and juice. Cover with the 
crust, press the edges firmly, cover with a floured cloth. Tie 
securely and plunge into boiling water. Allow to boil two 
hours. Remove from basin and send to table quickly. 

589. Apple Dumpling (Boiled)— Ingredients — Apples, quince or 

orange marmalade, or sugar, some cold paste. 

Peel the apples, remove the core with an apple scraper, and 
fill the hole with the marmalade or sugar ; then take a small 
piece of the cold paste and place the apple in it, then take 
another piece of the same shape and place on the top, join the 
paste as. neatly as possible. Tie in a cloth and boil three- 
quarters of an hour. Pour melted butter over them and serve. 

590. Currant D unn pi ing— Ingredients— i lb, of flour, 5 02. of beef 

suet, 7 oz. of currants, I glass of water. 

Mince the suet finely, mix with the flour and currants, 
which of course have been washed, picked and dried ; mix with 
the above proportion of water or milk, divide into dumplings 
about the size of an orange ; tie in cloths, plunge into boiling 
water, and boil from an hour to an hour and a quarter. Serve 
with butter and white sugar. 

591. Norfolk Dumplings— Ingredients— I lb. of dough. 

Divide one pound of dough into six equal parts ; mould 
these into dumplings, drop them into a pan of fast boiling 
water, and boil quickly for about a quarter of an hour. Send 
to table with melted butter well sweetened. 

[JVbfe — These dumplings should never be cut, but torn 
apart with two forks.] 

592. Lemon Dumplings — 10 oz. of fine bread crumbs, i large 

tablespoonful of flour, jS^ lb. finely chopped beef suet, 'he grated 
rinds of 2 small lemons, 4 oz. of powdered sugar, 3 large eggs 
beaten and strained, and last of all the juice of the 2 lemons als<> 
strained. 



176 The Dominion Cook Book. 

Mix the ingredients well, divide into four dumplings, tie 
them in well floured cloths, and let them boil an hour. 

593. Apple Slum — Ingredients— Apples, lemon, sugar, suet, flour, 

salt, baking powder. 

Peel and cut in slices the apples, put them in a saucepan 
with lemon rind, a cupful of sugar and glass of water. Allow 
to stew half an hour. Take out lemon rind. Then make a 
cover for the saucepan of one large cupful of suet finely minced, 
three large cupfuls of sifted flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, and a pinch of salt. Moisten stiff with cold water, 
roll out the size you need to cover the apples. Place the paste 
upon them and steam one and a half hours, keeping closely 
covered all the time. Serve from the saucepan on to the 
plates. 

594. Apple Pudding (Baked)— Ingredients— 10 apples, 4 oz. of 

brown sugar, 3 oz. of butter, 4 eggs, 2}i breakfast cupfuls of bread- 
crumbs. 

Pare and cut into quarters the apples, removing the cores. 
Boil them to a pulp. Well whisk the eggs and put them and 
the butter into the apple pulp. Stir the mixture for five minutes. 
Grease a pie dish and place a sprinkling of bread-crumbs, then 
of apple, and proceed in this manner until all are used. Bake 
for three-quarters of an hour. N.B. — Care must be taken that 
the top layer is of bread-crumbs. 

595. Bakewell Pudding— Ingredients— Puff-paste, jam, few strips 

of candied lemon peel, yolks of 4 eggs, whites of 2, % lb. of clarified 
butter, ^ lb. of pounded sugar, 2 oz. of almonds. 

Line a shallow dish with the puff paste, spread over it any 
kind of jam and the candied lemon peel. Fill the dish with 
the rest of the ingredients, beating the yolks of the eggs, and 
blanching and pounding the almonds. Mix well and pour over 
the jam. Bake in a raoderate oven. 

596. Batter Pudding — Ingredients — 1% cupftns en flour, i teaspoon- 

ful baking powder, ^ teaspoonful salt, i taUespoonful butter, 2 

eggs, I pt. of milk- 
Steam one hour, and serve with sauce. By adding a cupful 
of raisins, or any other desirable fruit, either fresh or dried, to 
the above pudding, a most delicious dish is made. 

97. Bread Pudding — Ingredients— Bread, boiling milk, allowing^ 
a pt. to I lb, of soaked bread, 2 beaten eggs, a little nutmeg, sugar. 



Pastry and Puddings. 177 

Soak the bread in cold water, then squeeze it very dry, take 
out any lumps, and add the milk, beat up the eggs, sweeten to 
taste, add nutmeg, and bake the "Pudding slowly until firm. If 
desired, a few sultanas may be added to the pudding ; or, if 
the bread is light, such as the crusts of French rolls, it may be 
soaked in as much cold milk as it will absorb, and when it is 
perfectly soft have sugar, eggs and flavoring added to i,t. 

598. Brown Bread Pudding— Ingredients— X 1^- ^^le brown 

bread finely and lightly grated, the same of suet chopped fine, the 
same of sultanas ; ^ of a saltspoonful of salt, i^ oz. of sugar, ^ of 
a nutmeg (grated), the grated rind of i lemon, 2 well beaten eggs. 

Mix all the ingredients thoroughly, and boil in the mould 
for three hours. A warm jam sauce should be poured over the 
pudding, or round it, when sent to table. 

599. Toronto Pudding — Ingredients — 3 eggs, 4 apples, % lb. of 

bread-crumbs, 4 oz. of sugar, 3 oz. of currants, salt and grated 
nutmeg to taste, the rind of % lemon. 

Pare, core, and mince the apples into small pieces, and mix 
them with the other dry ingredients ; beat up the eggs, moisten 
the mixture with these, and beat it well ; and put the pudding 
into a buttered mould ; tie it down with a cloth, boil for one 
hour and a half, and serve with sweet sauce. 

600. Carrot Pudding (2) — Ingredients — 10 oz. of bread crumbs, 5 

oz. of suet, 5 oz. of raisins, 12 oz, of carrots, 4 oz, of currants, 4 oz, 
of sugar, 4 eggs, a little nutmeg, milk. 

Boil the carrots until tender. Mash them. Stone the 
raisins and well whisk the eggs. Mix all the ingredients 
together with enough milk to make a thick batter. This pud- 
ding can either be boiled or baked. If for baking, put into a pie 
dish and bake for an hour. If for boiling, put into a buttered 
mould, secure with a cloth and boil for three hours. Serve 
with white sugar sifted over. 

601. IVlartha'S Pudding — Ingredients — X P'- °f ™i"'i laurel leaf, 

a piece of cinnamon, I cupful of bread crumbs, 3 eggs, nutmeg and 
lemon peel, teaspoonful orange flower water. 

Put the laurel leaf and cinnamon into the milk and boil, 
then pour over the bread crumbs, add the eggs well beaten, 
the nutmeg, lemon-peel and flower wateV. Sweeten to taste, 
butter a basin, stick currants or split raisins in rows upon it. 
Stir all the ingredients well together anfl pour into the basin. 
Cover with a cloth and boil one hour and a half. 
12 



178 The Dominion Cook Book. 

602. Pease Pudding — Ingredients — i qt. of split peas, a piece of 

butter, the yolk of an egg.^ 

Dry the peas before the fire, then tie up loosely in a cloth ; 
plunge into warm water, boil them two houri or more, until 
tender, take them up, beat in a dish with a pinch of salt, yolk 
of an egg and butter, make it quite smooth, tie it up again in a 
cloth, and boil one hour longer. 

603. Countess Pudding— Ingredients— i lb. each of suet, flour, 

and raisins (stoned), ^ of a pt. of milk, a pinch of salt. 

Chop the suet very fine, cut the stoned raisins in half and 
mix with the flour and salt. Now moisten with the milk, 
stirring thoroughly, dip the cloth in boiling water (to prevent 
it sticking) and put mixture in, tie securely and plunge in 
boiling water and boil five hours. 

Note — Take care it does not cease boiling during this 
time. 

604. OllOCOlate Pudding — Ingredients — l qt. of milk, 14 even 

tablespoonfuls of grated bread-crumbs, 1 2 tablespoonfuls of grated 
chocolate, 6 eggs, I tablespoonful vanilla, sugar to make very sweet. 

Separate the yolks and whites of four eggs ; beat up the 
four yolks and two whole eggs together very light with the 
sugar. Put the milk on the stove, and when it comes to a per- 
fect boil pour it over the bread and chocolate ; add the beaten 
eggs and sugar and vanilla ; be sure it is sweet enough ; pour 
into a buttered dish ; bake one hour in a moderate oven. 
When cold, and just before it is served, have the four whites 
beaten with a little powdered sugar, and flavor with vanilla and 
use as a meringue. 

605. Currant Pudding (Boiled) — Ingredients — 14 oz. of flour, 7 

oz. of suet, 7 oz. of currants, a little milk. 

"Have the currants washe^ and dried, mixed with the finely 

minced suet and flour. Mojsten the whole with suflScient milk 

to form a stiff batter. Place in a floured cloth and plunge into 

boiling water. Boil four hours and serve with butter and sugar. 

606. Currant Bun Pudding— Ingredients — 4 buns, jam, white of l 

egg, 2 oz. of sugar. 

Line a pie dish with the buns previously soaked in milk, put 
between them a laydt of jam and bake half an hour. Whip the 
white of the egg up with the sugar, and place on the top when 
done. These last two receipts are nursery puddings. 



Pastry and Puddings. 179 

607. Gingerbread Pudding— Ingredients— 2 oz. lard or butter, 2 

tablespoonfuls brown sugar, 2 do. golden syrup, i egg, i teacupful 
milk, I teaspoonful ground ginger, 8 oz. flour, i teaspoonful baking 
powder. 

Work the butter and sugar together, then add the egg beaten 
well, the ginger, treacle and milk, and then the flour and baking 
powder. Steam four hours. 

608. Ginge,r Pudding— Ingredients — 9 oz. of flour, 5 oz. of suet, J 

oz. of Sugar, i large tablespoonful of grated ginger. 

Chop the suet finely. Add to the flour sugar and ginger ; 
mix well. Butter a mould and put the ingredients in perfectly 
dry. Cover securely with a cloth and boil three hours. To be 
eaten with sweet sauce. 

609. Orange Pudding (i)— Ingredients— Puff paste, J4 lb. of butter, 

9 eggs, I Seville orange, J^ lb. of white sugar, a teaspoonful of 
' orange flower water, 2 teaspoonfuls of rose water, ^ pt. of cream, 
I hard biscuit. 

Make some puff" paste and lay it thin in a dish an;i round 
the rim ready to receive the pudding. Melt the butter, break 
the eggs and add them (the yolks of all, the whites of five) well 
beaten, to the melted butter. Shake well together, then grate 
the yellow part of the rind of the orange, add the sugar finely 
sifted ; mix all well together, add the orange-flower water and 
rose water and cream; grate into the mixture a hard biscuit; mix 
all the ingredients thoroughly, pour into the dish lined with 
paste, and bake very carefully as long as you would a custard 
pudding. 

610. Orange Pudding (2)— Ingredients— The rind of i Seville 

6 oz. fresh butter, 6 oz. of white sugar, 6 eggs, i apple, puff paste. 

Grate the rind and mix with the butter and sugar, adding 
by degrees the eggs well beaten ; scrape a raw apple and mix 
with the rest ; line the bottom and sides of a dish with paste, 
pour in the orange mixture, and lay over it crossbars of paste. 
It will take half an hour to bake. 

611. Orange Pudding (3) — Ingredients — 2 Seville oranges, I sweet 

orange, 6 eggs, }4 lb. of white sugar, }4 lb. of butter, puff paste. 

Boil the oranges, changing the water four times to remove 
all bitterness. When they are quite tender take them out, cut 
them in halves and remove the seeds and inward skins and 
stringy portions. Beat the rinds and juice in a stone mortar, 
squeeze in the juice of a sweet orange through a sieve, beat 



i8o The Dominion Cook Book. 

up the yolks of six eggs and whites of three, and half a pound 
of white sifted sugar. Mix all well together, and stir in the 
melted butter. Bake in a dish lined and ornamented with 
puff paste in not too quick ah oven. 

612. Shropshire Puddingy— Ingredients— >^ lb. of suet, ^ lb. of 

bread-crumbs, I lemon, juice and rind, I nutmeg, ^-Ib. of sugar, 5 
eggs. 

Boil three hours and serve with sweet sauce^-^j^ 

613. Lemon Pudding (i) — Ingredients— 2 eggs, aRpfuls of sugar, 

4 tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 2 lemons, butter. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs light, add the sugar ; dissolve 
the corn starch in a little cold water, stir into it two tea- 
cupfuls of boiling water ; put in the juice of the lemons, 
with some of the grated peel. Mix all together with a tea- 
spoonful of butter. Bake about fifteen minutes. When done 
spread over the top the beaten whites of the eggs and brown. 

614. Lemon Puddins(2)— Ingredients— ^ of lb. of bread-crumbs, 

• I qt. of milk, 3 oz. of butter, I lemon, 4 oz, of white sugar, 4 eggs, 
paste. 

Place the milk in a stewpan and bring to a boil ; add the 
butter and when melted pour over the bread-crumbs. Mince 
the lemon peel and with the sugar add to the other ingredients. 
Well whisk the eggs, beat the whole for a few minutes. Line a 
pie dish with paste and pour the mixture in. Bake for nearly 
an hour. 

615. Favorite Pudding — Ingredients — 3 eggs, flavoring, grated 

rind and juice of a lemon, yi teaspoonfiil of grated nutmeg, i cup of 
grated bread-crumbs, I cup of finely chopped apples, i cup of Eng- 
Esh currants and i ^ cups of sugar. 

Beat the eggs very lightly, flavor ; to this add the bread- 
crumbs and remaining ingredients. Stir thoroughly ; then put 
in a buttered pudding dish and boil at least two and a half hours. 
Serve with any good sauce. 

616. IMarmalade Pudding — Ingredients — 2 oz. of lard or butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls of brown sugar, 4 oz. of marmalade, i egg, I tea- 
cupful of milk, 8 oz. of iiour, I teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Well mix the butter and sugar, then add the eggs well 
beaten, the marmalade and milk, then the flour and baking 
powder. Steam four hours. 

617. Teacalce Pudding — Ingredients— A teacake, batter cUstard' 

milk, 2 eggs, sugar to taste. 



PAS TRY-A HmrfUDDINGS. l8l 



Cut the teacake into thin slices, butter and line a pie-dish 
with them ; make the custard, pour in and bake forty minutes. 

618. Holiday Pudding — Ingredients — A plain sponge cake, straw- 

berry jam, Icing, a rich custard, some preserved ginger. 

Make the sponge cake in a*iOTmd mould, take out the 
inside of the cake with a cutter not too near the edge, put in a 
good layer of strawberry jam, not too thickly spread. Cut the 
inside of the cake you have taken out in slices, spread some 
jam between each slice (different sorts of jam may be used, but ^ 
strawberry does very nicely), and replace the cake. Ice it nicely " 
over ; put it into a very slow oven to try the icing. Then make 
the custard and pour into it small pieces of preserved gingelf^ 
Pour into the cake a'nd serve hot. 

619. Cabinet Pudding— -Ingredients— 1>^ pts. of new milk, white 

sugar, I lemon, cinnamon, mace, cloves, 5 eggs and the yolks of 4, 
batter, 4 or 5 sponge cakes. 

Boil the milk with enough white sugar to sweeten it, the 
peel of a fresh lemon cut thinly, the cinnamon, mace and cloves. 
Boil these ingredients as for a custard. Beat up the eggs. 
Pour the boiling milk, etc., on to these, stirring continually, 
then strain the whole through a hair sieve and leave to cool. 
Take a good sized pudding mould, butter it well and line 
with sponge cakes, cut into thin slices. Pour the cftstard into 
the mould and tie it close. It will take an hour and a half to 
boil. It is an improvement after buttering the mould and 
before placing the sponge cakes, to arrange some stoned raisins, 
slices of candied peel and nutmeg. Serve hot with sauce. 

620. College Pudding — Ingredients — 8 oz. bread crumbs, 8 oz. 

suet, 8 oz currants, I oz. citron peel, I oz. orange peel, a little sugar 
and nutmeg, 3 eggs, beaten yolks and whites separately. 

Mix well and shape them into balls, rub them over with 
egg, and roll them in flour. Fry a nice brown in boiling butter 
or lard, and drain them on blotting paper. Or they may be 
put into small moulds and baked in the oven. Serve with 
sweet sauce. 

621. Steamed Pudding — Ingredients — I cup of suet, chopped fine, 

I cup of molasses, i cup of currants — washed and dried— i cup of 
sour milk, i teaspoonful of soda, a little salt, flour. 

Mix well, using flour enough to malS a stiff dough ; pour 
into a mould and steam four hours. 



The Dominion Cook Book. 



622. Oxford Dunnplangs— Ingredients — 2 oz. grated bread, 4 oz. 

currants, 4 oz. suet chopped fine, I large spoonful of flour, I oz. 
pounded sugar, 3 eggs, grated lemon peel and a little spice. 

Mix with the yolks of the eggs well beaten and a little milk- 
Divide into five dumplings half an inch thick, and fry a nice 
brown in plenty of lard. Sift^ sugar on them. 

623. Marrow Pudding— Ingredients— 1;^ pts. of boiling milk, % 

pt. of bread crumbs, 4 eggs, 6 oz. of shreded marrow, 2 oz. raisins 
and dried currants, grated nutmeg, and sugar to taste. 
Pour the milk on the bread crumbs, cover up and allow to 
soak thoroughly, then beat the eggs with the marrow and add 
to the bread crumbs, with the raisins and currants, grated nut- 
n?eg and sugar. Put into a buttered mould, boil two and a 
half hours, turn it out and serve with pounded sugar. 

624. Marrow Pudding— Ingredients— 2 teacupfuls of fiour, i of 

suet chopped very fine, l egg beaten in a cup and the cup filled with 
treacle, I teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, yi teaspoonful of tartaric 
acid and a little flavoring. 

Mix well together ; put into a basin, but do not fill the basin 
or tie it down, as the pudding will rise. Steam for two or three 
hours. Serve with sweet sauce. 

625. Fruit Pudding— Ingredients— Crust, 4. oz of suet to 6 of flour, 

pinch of salt, and water enough to make a thick paste, fruit, sugar. 

Make tlie crust of the suet, flour, salt and water ; roll it out 
thin before putting into a buttered basin, then add the fruit 
mixed with the sugar except in the case of apples, which are 
sometimes hardened by boiling with sugar ; put on a lid of 
paste, and boil the pudding an hour and a half. Care should 
be taken to roll the crust thin, in order to get as much fruit as 
possible into the pudding. It is a good plan to stew a little fruit, 
and serve it with the pudding, as it should be given to children 
in large proportion to the crust. 

626. Layer Pudding— Crust as for fruit pudding, jam or treacle. 
Make a crust as for fruit pudding. Roll it out and line a 

buttered basin with it, lay at the bottom a layer of jam or 
treacle, then a thin layer of crust, and so on until the basin is 
full. Boil an hour and a half 

627 Mincemeat (Witliout Meat)— Ingredients for 4 different 
receipts — 3 lbs. raisins, 3 lbs. currants, 3 lbs. almonds, well chopped, 
3 lbs. apples, 2 oz. mixed spices, I oz. candied peel,, juice of I lemon, 
peel of 3 lemons, sugar to taste. 



Pastry and Puddings. 183 

i% lb. of suet, lyi lb. raisins, 1% lb. currants, lyi lb. sugar, 

2 lbs. apples, chopped fine, of mace, cinnamon, and salt ^ oz. 
pounded together, four cloves, the grated rind of 2 lemons and the 
juice of one, i oz. of sweet almonds, pounded, yi lb. of candied 
peel. 

2 lbs. raisins, stoned, 2 lbs. currants, 2 lbs. beef suet, 3 lbs. raw 
sugar, }i lb. candied citron, ^ lb. candied lemon, ^ lb. candied 
orange, the juice and rind of four lemons, 2 lbs. apples. 

Currants and rasins, 2 lbs. each, brown sugar l^ lb., suet 1% 
lb., salt yi oz., cloves, mace, cinnamon, less than a X °^- each, 
apples 4, lemon i, orange and lemon peel X lb. each, all chopped 
up together. When well soaked put in a jar for use. 

628. Mincemeat (with IVIeat)— Ingredients— 1>^ lb. lean beef, 

3 lbs. beef suet, 2 lbs. raisins, 2 lbs. currants, 2 lbs. sugar, 2 lbs. 
mixed peel, i nutmeg, the rind of two lemons, the juice of i, 2 lbs. 
of apples. 

Stone the raisins and cut in halves, add the sugar, have the 
currants washed, dried and ready for use. Slice the peel, 
grate the nutmeg, mince the apples, beef, suet and lemon peel, 
strain the juice. Mix well and cover air tight. Will be ready 
for use in three weeks. 

629. Plum Pudding— Ingredients— 2 lbs. beef suet, lyi lb. bread 

crumbs, i % lb. fiour, 2 lb. raisins, 2 lb. currants, yi lb. mixed peel, 
i^ lb. foots sugar, 14 eggs, a little nutmeg, ginger, allspice (pow- 
dered), a large pinch of salt, ^ pint of milk. 

Chop the suet'' as finely as ^possible, and any stale'piece of 
bread can be used for grating, allowing the above quantity ; 
mix with the suet and flour. Stone the raisins, and have the 
currants perfectly washed and dried, the peel cut into thin 
slices and added to the suet, bread and flour, mixing well for 
some minutes, then ad J the sugar and continue working with 
the hands for five minutes. Put the eggs into a bowl (breaking 
each into a cup first to ascertain that it is fresh and to remove 
the speck), add to them grated nutmeg, powdered ginger, and 
powdered allspice, according to taste, and a large pinch of salt ; 
then stir in half a pint of milk ; beat all up together, and pour 
it gradually into the other bowl, working the whole mixture 
with the hand for some time. If the mixture be too stiff add 
more milk, and continue to work it with a wooden spoon for at 
least half an hour. Scald two pudding cloths, spread each in a 
bowl and dredge them well with flour. Divide the compositipj*' 
in two equal parts, put each in its cloth and tie it up tightly. 
To boil the puddings place two inverted plates in saucepans 



184 The Dominion Cook Book. 

filled with water, and when the water boils fast put each pud- 
ding into its saucepan. Let them boil six hours, keeping the 
saucepan full by adding more water as it is. required, and 
taking care that it never ceases boiling. Then take the 
puddings out, and hang them up till the next day, when the 
cloth of each pudding should be tightened and tied afresh, 
and three hours' boiling as in the first instance will make them 
ready for table. Serve.with a sprig of holly stuck on the 
top. 

630. An Excellent Plum Pudding— Ingredients— i lb. of bread 

crumbs, i lb. of suet, i^ lb. raisins, ^ lb. currants, 10 oz. of mixed 
candied peel, 9 eggs, % gill of milk. 

Wash the currants carefully, pick and dry them ; then stone 
the raisins and halve them carefully with a knife; chop the 
suet until very fine ; slice the candied peel thinly, and when 
grating the bread crumbs be sure they are nice and fine. Mix 
all well together, wetting with the well beaten eggs and milk. 
Give the mixture a good stirring and empty into a mould 
previously well buttered. Press it down firmly. Cover with a 
floured pudding cloth and tie tightly. Boil for from five and a 
half to six hours. When done hang the pudding up until it is 
required. If the pudding is to be eaten hot boil two hours on 
Christmas day, or on the day it is wanted. 

631. Christmas Pudding— Ingredients— Pick and stone 2 lbs. of 

good Valentias ; pick, wash and dry I lb. of currants ; chop 2 lbs. of 
beef suet ; have ready % a lb. of brown sugar, 6 ox. candied peel, 
cut thin, 2^ lbs. of flour, 6 eggs, a quart or more of milk, an ounce 
of mixed spice, and a tablespoonAil of salt. 

Put the flour into a large pan, add the plums, currants, suet, 
sugar, peel, spice and salt, and mix them well together while 
dry. Beat the eggs well up in a large basin, and add a portion 
of the milk, stirring it at the same time. Make a well in the 
middle of the flour, and pour in the milk and eggs. Keep stir- 
ring till all the ingredients are thoroughly mixed. Add more 
milk if necessary, and stir up again ; the batter should be rather 
stiff'. Have a good stout cloth ready ; wet and flour it well, lay 
it over a pan, pour in the batter, and tie it firmly up. When 
the water in the copper or large kettle boils, put the pudding in 
and let it boil gently for five or six hours. Turn it carefully 
out of the cloth. Serve with or without sauce. 

632. Ice Pudding — Ingredients — % lb. white sugar, a stick of 

vanilla, 10 eggs, i gill of cream, 12 lbs. of ice, 6 lbs. of fine salt, 
dried fruits. 



Pastry and Puddings. 185 

Put the milk into a stewpan with white sugar and a stick of 
vanilla; leave it to boil ten minutes. Mix the yolks of ten 
eggs with the cream, pour in the milk, then put it back into the 
stewpan, and stir until it thickens, but do not let it boil ; strain 
it into a basin, and leave it to cool. Take the ice, pound it 
small, add the salt ; mix together quickly, cover the bottom of 
an ice pail (a common pail will do), place the ice pot in it, and 
build it around with the ice and salt. This done pour the cream 
into the pot, put on the cover, and never cease turning until 
the cream becomes thick ; move it from the sides occasionally 
with the ice scoop, to prevent it getting into hard lumps. The 
mould to be used to set the pudding should be put on ice to 
get quite cold. It is then filled with the cream to the level, 
and three or four pieces of white paper wetted with cold water 
are placed on it before you put on the cover, which should fit 
very tight. The mould is then buried in the same mixture of 
ice and salt used for freezing the cream in the first instance, and 
is left until wanted, when it is dipped in cold water, turned out 
on a napkin, and served. Dried fruits, cut small, may be put 
in the cream when the mould is being filled. 

633. Roly Poly Jam Pudding— Ingredients— Suet crust, 10 oz. 

of any kind of jam. 

Having made a nice suet crust, roll to the thickness of about 
half an inch. Place the jam in the centre and spread equally 
over the paste, allowing a margin of about half an inch for the 
pudding to join. Roll up lightly, join the ends securely, place 
upon a floured cloth, and secure with tape, allowing a little 
room for the pudding to swell. Plunge into boiling water and 
boil two hours. 

634. Red Currant Pudding— Ingredients— Some red currants and 

raspberries, sugar, slices of bread. 

Stew the red currants and raspberries with sugar till thor- 
oughly done, pour off all the juice, and put the fruit while hot 
into a pudding basin lined with bread made to fit nieely ; fill 
the basin up with fruit, and cover it with a slice of bread made 
to fit nicely ; let it stand till quite cold with a plate on it. Boil 
up the juice which was poured off with a little more sugar, 
and let that get cold. When served the pudding must be 
turned out on a dish and the juice poured all over it so as to 
color the bread thoroughly. It can be served with custard or 
cream. 



1 86 The Dominion Cook Book. 



635. Raspberry Pudding— Ingredients— i pt. of bread crumbs, i 

qt. of milk, 2 cupfuls of sugar, I lemon, butter, a cupful of preserved 
raspberries, 4 eggs. 

Mix the bread crumbs, milk, two cupfuls of sugar, the peel 
of the lemon grated, the yolks of the eggs, and a small piece of 
butter, and bake. When done spread over the top a cupful of 
preserved raspberries ; put over that a meringue made with 
the whites of the eggs, a cupful of sugar and the juice of the 
lemon. Return it to the oven to color ; let it partly cool and 
serve it with rich cream. 

636. Sweet Potato Pudding— Ingredients— 2 cups of mashed 

sweet potato (the potato must first be boiled), a cup of sugar, a small 
cup of butter, 3 eggs, % teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little hot 
water, a teaspoonful of lemon extract, and % teaspoonful of grated 
nutmeg. 

Beat the eggs until they are very light, rub the butter and 
sugar to a cream, and mix all with the potato ; cover a deep 
plate or shallow pudding dish with a thick crust ; then put in 
the mixture, and bake slowly for three-quarters of an hour. 

637. A Good Baked Pudding— Ingredients — ipt. of new milk, 3 

spoonfuls of flour, yi, lb. of butter, 5 eggs, salt to taste, rind of 
lemon and sugar. 

Make the milk and flour into a hasty pudding, mix with the 
butter ; when cold add the eggs well beaten, and the remaining 
ingredients. Bake three-quarters of an hour. 

638. Rice and Raisin Pudding— Ingredients— 5 eggs, I cup 

of rice, i cup of sugar, butter the size of an egg, 2 handfuls of 

raisins. 

Simmer the rice in a quart of milk until tender ; remove 
from the stove to cool. Well whisk the yolks of the eggs and 
add to the rice, also the rest of the milk, sugar, and butter. 
Then well beat the whites of the eggs, stone the raisins, and 
add to the other ingredients. Grate nutmeg on the top and 
bake one hour. 

639. Sir Watlcin Wynn'S Pudding— Ingredients— 4 oz. ground 

rice, % lb. suet, % lb. bread crumbs, 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs, 
4 tablespoonfuls of orange marmalade. 

Mix well together the day before using. Put it in a well- 
buttered mould that will just hold a quart, taking care to 
beat it up well just before you mould it, and do not press 
it tightly. Let it boil four hours. Serve with or without 
sauce, 



Pastry and Puddings. 187 

640. Ne'«ivca.stle Pudding — Ingredients — 4 oz. butter, 6 oz. rice 

flour, 6 oz. white sugar, 4 eggs, a pinch of carbonate of soda, 10 drops 
of essence of lemon. 

Beat the rice flour, sugar, eggs and soda in a basin until 
very light and white ; then beat the butter to a cream, and 
put it into the pudding with ten drops of essence of lemon. 
Beat all together for five minutes. Butter a mould, pour the 
pudding into it, and boil for two hours. Serve with or without 
sauce. 

641. Plain Rice Pudding— Ingredients— j^ lb. best rice, i pt. of 

new milk. 

Wash the rice, put it in a pie dish with a pint of new milk, 
and allow it to bake rather quickly for three-quarters of an 
hour. If the pudding is required to be moist, half a pint more 
milk must be allowed. A good nourishing rice pudding may 
be made with a quarter of a pound of rice, a pint of milk, half 
a pint of water, and one ounce of finely-shred beef suet. 
Sugar and flavoring may, if desired, be stirred into the pud- 
ding before sending to the table. Children generally like rice 
thus cooked with sugar and lemon juice, which should be 
added when served to them. 

642. Rice Custard Pudding— Ingredients— ^ lb. best rice, i}i 

pts. of milk, an egg or two, sugar, flavoring. 

Bake the rice as in the preceding recipe ; when done, add 
to it half a pint of milk, into which an egg or two, sugar to 
taste, and flavoring have been whisked. Bake very gently for 
three-quarters of an hour. 

643. Rice and Apple Pudding— Ingredients— A cupful of rice, 

6 apples, a little chopped lemon peel, 2 cloves, sugar. 

Boil the rice for ten minutes, drain it through a hair sieve 
until quite dry. Put a cloth into a pudding basin and lay the 
rice round it like a crust. Cut the apples into quarters, and 
lay them in the middle of the rice with a little chopped lemon 
peel, cloves and some sugar. Cover the fruit with rice, tie up 
tight, and boil for an hour. Serve with melted butter, sweet- 
ened and poured over it. 

644. Ground Rice Pudding — Ingredients — 2 oz. of ground rice, 

I pt. of cold milk, 6 lumps of sugar, I egg. 

Mix the rice in half a pint of cold milk, pour on it half a 
pint of boiling milk, in which the sugar has been dissolved, and 



1 88 The Dominion Cook Book. 

stir over the fire for ten minutes. Put in the pudding the egg 
well beaten, and bake in a buttered tart dish for three-quarters 
of an hour. 

645. Cream Tapioca Pudding— Ingredients — 3 tablespoonfuls 

of tapioca, 4 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls of 
prepared cocoanut, i ql. of milk. 

Soak the tapioca in water over night, put it in the milk and 
boil three-quarters of an hour. Beat the yolks of the eggs into 
a cup 'of sugar, add the cocoanut, stir in and boil ten minutes 
longer ; pour into a pudding dish ; beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth, stir in three tablespoonfuls of sugar ; put this 
over the top and sprinkle with cocoanut and brown five min- 
utes. 

646. Tapioca Pudding — Ingredients — 10 tablespoonfuls of tapioca, 

I qt. of rich milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 6 tablespoonfuls of 
white sugar, i lemon. 

Take the tapioca, wash it in warm water, drain and put the 
tapioca in a pan with the milk. Set the pan over a kettle of 
boiling water and stir till it thickens ; then add the butter, 
sugar and lemon, grated (or flavor to suit the taste with good 
lemon or vanilla extract). 

647. French Tapioca — Ingredients — 2 oz. of fine tapioca, yi pt. of 

milk, I well-beaten egg, sugar and flavoring. 

Take the tapioca de la couronne, and boil it in half a pint 
of water until it begins to melt, then add the milk by degrees, 
and boil until the tapioca becomes very thick ; add the egg, 
sugar, and flavoring to taste, and bake gently for three-quar- 
ters of an hour. This preparation of tapioca is superior to any 
other, is nourishing, and suitable for delicate children. 

648. Velvet Pudding — Ingredients — 5 eggs, i^ cupfiils of sugar, 4 

tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 3 pts. of -milk. 

Dissolve the corn starch in a little cold milk, and add one 
cupful of sugar and the yolks of the eggs beaten. Boil three 
pints of milk and add the other ingredients while boiling ; re- 
move from the fire when it becomes quite thick ; flavor with 
vanilla and pour into a baking dish ; beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth, add half a cup of sugar, turn Over the pudding, 
and place it in the oven and let brown slightly. 

649. Sauce (for Velvet Pudding) — Ingredients— Yolks of 2 eggs, 

I cupful of sugar, i tablespoonful of butter, I cup of milk. 



Pastry and Puddings. 189 

Well beat the yolks, sugar and butter; add to the milk 
(boiling), and set on the stove till it comes to boiling heat ; 
flavor with vanilla. 

650. Florentine Pudding— Ingredients— l qt. of milk, 3 table- 

spoonfuls of com starch dissolved in a little cold milk, 3 eggs, yi, a 
teacupful of sugar, flavoring, lemon or vanilla, or according to taste, 
white sugar. 

Put the milk in a saucepan and allow it to boil. Add to the 
corn starch (mixed in the milk) the yolks of the three eggs 
beaten, the sugar and flavoring ; stir in the scalding milk, con- 
tinue stirring until the mixture is of the consistency of custard. 
Pour into baking tin ; beat the whites of the eggs in a teacup of 
pulverized sugar and when the pudding is cooked spread on 
the top ; place in the oven to brown. Can be eaten with cream, 
but is very nice without. 

651. Semolina Pudding — Ingredients — 2 oz. of semolina, i pt. of 

milk, sugar, flavoring, I egg. 

Boil the semolina in the milk, sweeten and flavor, and beat 
in the egg ; put the pudding in a buttered tart dish ; bake an 
hour in a slow oven. 

652. Sweet Macaroni— Ingredients — ^ lb. of best macaroni, 2 qts. 

of water, a pinch of salt, i teacupful of milk, % lb. of white sugar, 

flavoring. 
Break up the macaroni into small lengths, and boil in the 
water (adding the salt) until perfectly tender ; drain away the 
water, add to the macaroni, in a stewpan, the milk and sugar, 
and keep shaking over the fire until the milk is absorbed. Add 
any flavoring and serve with or without stewed fruit. 

653. Macaroni Pudding — Ingredients — % lb. of macaroni, cus- 

tard, 2 eggs, I pt. of boiling milk, sugar and flavoring to taste. 

Boil the macaroni as for the above dish, when done drain 
away the water, and put the macaroni into a tart dish ; pour 
over it custard, the sugar and flavoring to taste ; bake very 
slowly for an hour. 

654. Custard Pudding (Baked)— Ingredients— ^ pt. of milk, a 

little white sugar, 2 eggs, flavoring. 

Boil the milk, with sufficient sugar to taste, and whip 

into it the eggs (the whites and yolks previously well beaten 

together), add flavoring to taste ; put the pudding into a pie 

dish, and place it in another vessel half full of boiling water. 



1 90 The Dominion Cook Book. 

put into the oven, and bake gently for about half an hour ; or, 
if more convenient, the pie dish may be placed in a stewpan 
half filled with water, by the side of the fire, and allowed to 
cook slowly. 

655. Oatmeal Pudding— ingredients— 2 oz. of fine Scotch oatmeal, 

% pt. of cold milk, i pt. of boiling milk, sugar to taste, 2 oz. of 
bread crumbs, 1 oz. of shred suet, l or 2 beaten eggs, lemon flavor- 
ing or grated nutmeg. 

Mix with the oatmeal, first the cold milk, and then add the 
boiling milk; sweeten, and stir over the fire for ten minutes, 
then add the bread crumbs ; stir until the mixture is stiff, then 
add the suet and eggs ; add flavoring. Put the pudding in a 
buttered dish and bake slowly for an hour. 

656. Indian Corn Flour Pudding— Ingredients— 2 oz. of Indian 

com flour, yi pt. of milk, ^ pt. of boiling milk, sweetening and 
flavoring to taste, I egg. 

This must not be confounded with corn flour sold in packets, 
which in some cases is the starch of Indian corn or maize, de- 
prived of much of its nutritive value by the process it under- 
goes to render it white and smooth. Indian corn flour is the 
finely-ground flour of maize. "Properly prepared, it furnishes 
a wholesome, digestible, and nutritious food." Like oatmeal, 
it requires to be thoroughly well boiled. Vanilla is the most 
suitable flavoring for this pudding, but any other may be used. 
Mix the corn flour smooth in the cold milk and then stir in the 
boiling milk. Sweeten and flavor. Put into a clean stewpan 
and stir over the fire until it becomes thick ; beat in the egg, put 
the pudding in a buttered tart dish and bake very slowly for 
three-quarters of an hour. 

657. Sunday,Pudding— Ingredients— y lb. of bread crumbs, % 

pt. of milk, sugar and flavoring to taste, 2 eggs, strawberry jam. 

Boil the bread crumbs in the milk, sweeten and flavor, and 
when the bread is thick stir in the yolks of the eggs. Put the 
pudding into a buttered tart dish, bake slowly for three-quarters 
of an hour. Then spread over the top a layer of strawberry 
jam, and on this the whites of the eggs beaten with a teaspoon- 
ful of sifted sugar to a strong froth. Dip a knife in boiling 
water, and with it smooth over the whites, put the pudding 
again into a moderate oven until the top is a light golden brown. 
Serve immediately. 



Pastry and Puddings. 191 

658. Yorkshire Pudding (i)— Ingredients— 1 egg, a pinch of salt, 

milk, 4 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Take the egg and salt and beat with a fork for a few minutes. 
Add to this three tablespoonfuls of milk and the flour ; beat 
(with a spoon) very well, whilst in a batter, for ten minutes. 
Then add milk till it attains almost the consistency of cream. 
Take care to have the dripping hot in the pudding tin. Pour 
the batter into the tin to the thickness of about a quarter of an 
inch, then bake under the roasting joint. The above will make 
a pudding of moderate size, perhaps one dozen squares. The 
great secret of a pudding being light is to mix it two hours 
before cooking it. 

659. Yorkshire Pudding(2)— Ingredients— 6tablespoonfUls(heaped) 

of flour, lyi pts. of milk, 3 eggs. 

Put the flour in a basin with a little salt, stir in enough milk 
to make it a stiff batter. When quite smooth put in the eggs, 
well beaten, and the rest of the milk. Beat again, put in shal- 
low tin rubbed with beef dripping. Bake for an hour, then put 
under the meat half an hour to catch a little dripping. Cut in 
small squares to serve. The secret of lightness is to have 
smooth batter highly beaten, hot oven, and serving very quickly 
— in fact, that intelligent care in small details which gives 
perfect cooking. 

660. Steak Pudding — Ingredients — % lb. of suet, 18 oz. of flour, a 

large teaspoonful of baking powder, pepper and salt to taste, 1% 
lbs. of steak, 6 oz. of bullock's kidney. ' 

Chop the suet finely. Add the baking powder and salt to 
the fiour, and then mix in the suet. Add gradually a glass of 
cold water (about half a pint), mixing all the time ; roll into a 
sheet. Cut the steak into pieces and the kidney into slices, 
sprinkling well with pepper and salt. Grease a pudding mould 
and line it with the paste. Place the meat in and pour in about . 
two wine glasses of cold water. The meat must only come 
level with the top. Cover with the paste, tie down in a floured 
cloth, plunge into boiling water and boil for two and a quarter 
hours. 

661. Graham Pudding — Ingredients — 2 cups of Graham flour, 2 

eggs, I qt. of milk, butler the size of an egg, salt to taste. 

Put a pint of milk into a buttered stewpan, and allow to 
heat slowly. Mix the rest of the milk, in the flour, and beat 
lightly with the butter, eggs and salt. Then pour the hot milk 



192 The Dominion Cook Book. 

upon it, mix well, return to the fire surrounded by boiling water, 
and stir constantly for a quarter of an hour ; grate nutmeg 
upon it. Serve in uncovered dish, and eat with butter and 
sugar. 

663. Cotta.se Pie — Ingredients — 2 lbs. of potatoes, scraps of cold 
meat, i onion, lyi oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, ^ a glass 
of milk. 

BoiJ and mash potatoes (or if there are any cold ones at 
hand, they will do as well) ; put the milk and butter on the fire 
to boil, and when boiling pour upon the mashed potatoes and 
mix to a paste ; place the meat in a pie dish with a little fat in 
layers, mince the onion and sprinkle each layer with it, also 
pepper and salt ; half fill the dish with water or gravy and 
cover with the potatoes, smoothing neatly and marking with a 
fork into a pattern ; bake half an hour. 

663. Pork Pie — Ingredients — For paste, % lb. of lard, }i oz. of butter, 
I lb. of flour. 

Make a paste thus : — Melt the lard and butter in hot milk ' 
(not boiling) ; when it rises to the top of the stewpan skim it 
off, and mix it warm with the flour ; raise the crust, when 
sufficiently kneaded, on a round block of wood about four 
inches in circumference and six inches in height. Take lean 
pork, cut it up in small square pieces, season with pepper and 
salt, fill the pie, put on a lid of paste, and decorate with paste 
ornaments, cut out with tin cutters. 

664.- Eel Pie — Ingredients — Eels, salt, pepper and nutmeg, puff paste, I 
onion, a few cloves, a little stock, i ^egg, butter, flour, and lemon 
juice. 

Skin and wash some eels, remove the heads and tails ; cut 
up the fish into pieces about three inches long, season them 
with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Border a pie dish with puff 
paste, put in the eels with a chopped onion, and a few cloves, 
add a little clear stock ; cover with puff paste, brush over the 
crust with the yolk of an egg, and bake ; make a sauce with 
the trimming of the eels, some white stock seasoned with salt 
and pepper ; thicken it with a liaison of butter and flour, add 
some lemon juice, strain and pour it quite hot through a funnel 
into the pie. 
665. Pi£^eon Pie — Ingredients — Pigeons, pepper, and salt, a piece o' 

butter, a bunch of parsley, a beef steak, 2 hard boiled eggs, I cup 

of water, a few pieces of ham, crust. 



Pastry and Puddings. 193 

Rub the pigeons with pepper and salt, Inside and out j in 
the former put a piece of butter, and if approved, some parsley 
chopped with the livers, and a little of the seasoning j lay the 
steak at the bottom of the dish, and the birds on it j between 
every two a hard egg. Put the water in the dish ; and if you 
have any ham in the house, lay a piece on each pigeon, it is a 
great improvement to the flavor. Observe when the ham is 
cut for gravy or pies, to take the under part rather than the 
prime. Season the gizzards, and the two joints of the wings, 
and put them in the centre of the pie ; and over them in a 
hole made in the crust, three feet nicely cleaned to show what 
pie it is. 

666. Raised Beef Steak Pie— Ingredients— Some tender steak, 

butter, pepper and salt, lemon juice, shalots chopped finely, oysters, 
crust, ketchup. 

Remove any skin there may be adhering to the fat of the 
steaks, heat them over the fire with the butter, pepper, salt, 
lemon juice and finely chopped shalots; when half cooked, 
remove from the fire and place on a dish to cool ; blanch the 
oysters, strain off the liquor, preserving for future use, make a 
crust and place a layer of steaks at the bottom of the dish, and 
then put in some oysters, and continue to do this until all are 
used ; cover with crust, ornament the top with a pretty device 
and put in the oven to bake. When done mix with some nice 
ketchup, serve with oyster liquor. 

667. Raised French Pie — Ingredients — Pie crust, some veal, a few 

mushrooms, a few slices of ham, a chicken cut up, a sweetbread cut 
into slices, pepper and salt, sweet herbs, 6 yolks of hard boiled eggs. 

Raise a crust about three inches high, lay in some slices of 
the veal, then a few of the mushrooms, then a few slice|<M 
ham, then the chicken, a few more mushrooms and the^fweet- 
bread ; add seasoning, cover in and bake for two hours in a 
slack oven j when done pour off the fat and add the eggs. 

668. IMacaroni Pie — Ingredients — ^ lb. of macaroni, }4 lb. of saus- 

ages, a small bunch of parsley, water, a gill of stock, a pinch of salt, 
chopped parsley. Pastry — 8 oz. of flour, 6 oz. of lard (or well 
clarified dripping). 

Stew the macaroni till tender in a pint of water to which 

add the stock and salt; open the sausages lengthwise and 

scrape out the meat ; then put a layer of macaroni in a small 

pie dish, another of sausage meat and a sprinkling of pepper, 

13 



194 The Dominion Cook Book. 

salt and chopped parsley, and so on in alternate layers until all 
are used. Moisten with two tablespoonfuls of water ; cover 
with the pastry and bake half an hour. 

669. Chicken Pie— Ingredients — 2 young fowls; seasoning: white 

pepper, salt, a little mace, and nutmeg all of the finest powder, and 
cayenne. Some fresh ham cut in slices, or gammon of bacon, some 
forcemeat balls, and hard eggs. Gravy from knuckle of veal or a 
piece of scrag, shank bone of mutton, herbs, onions, mace, and 
white pepper. 

Cut up the fowls ; add the seasoning. Put the chicken, 
slices of ham, or gammon of bacon, forcemeat balls and hard 
eggs by turn in layers. If it be baked in a dish put a little 
water, but none if in a raised crust. By the time it returns 
from the oven have ready a gravy made of the veal or scrag, 
shank bones of mutton and seasoning. If to be eaten hot you 
may add mushrooms, etc., but not if to be eaten cold. If it is 
made in a dish, put as much gravy as will fill it ; but in raised 
crust the gravy must be nicely strained, and then put in cold 
as jelly. To make the jelly clear, you may give it a boil with 
the whites of two eggs, after taking away the meat, and then 
run it through a fine lawn sieve. 

670. Giblet Pie — Ingredients — Some goose or duck giblets, water, 

onion, black pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs, a large teacupful of 
cream, sliced potatoes, plain crust, salt. 

Line the edge of a pie dish with a plain crust. Stew the 
giblets in a small quantity of water with the seasoning till nearly 
done. Let them grow cold and if not enough to fill the dish, 
lay a beef, veal or two or three mutton steaks at the bottom. 
Add the giblets that the liquor was boiled in. Lay slices of 
cold potatoes on the top and cover with the crust ; bake for an 
hour and a half in a brisk oven. 

671. Beefsteak and Oyster Pie— Ingredients— Steak, seasoning: 

pepper, salt, eschalot minced finely. Oysters, lemon peel, mace 
and a sprig of parsley, I oz. of butter rolled in flour. 

Prepare your steaks by beating them gently with a circular 
steak beater, add the seasoning, put layers of them a?.d of 
oysters. Stew the liquor and beards of the latter, with the 
lemon peel, mace, and the sprig of parsley. These ingredients 
are to be boiled in about three spoonfuls of water and butter 
rolled with flour, then strained off, and put into the dish when 
the pie is baked. 



Pastry and Puddings. 195 



672. Oyster Pie — Ingredients — Oysters, sweetbreads, salt, pepper, 

mace, ^ a teacupful of liquor, some gravy, a teacupful of cream, 
white gravy. 

Open the oysters, and strain the liquor from them ; parboil 
them after taking off their beards. Parboil sweetbreads, cut 
them in slices, lay them and the oysters in layers, add seasoning, 
then put the liquor, and the gravy. Bake in a slow oven, and 
before you serve, add the cream, a little more oyster liquor, and 
a cupful of white gravy, all warm, but not boiling. 

673. Veal Pie— Ingredients — 3 or 4 lb. of veal, a few slices of ham or 

bacon, powdered mace, cayenne, nutmeg, salt, forcemeat, 3 eggs. 

Cut. the veal into convenient pieces, place in saucenan and 
cover with cold water. Allow to come slowly to a boil then 
remove from the stove and place in a pie dish ; pour the liquor 
over the meat, add the ham or bacon and seasoning, boil the 
eggs hard and cut into rings, place neatly over the meat, have 
ready veal forcemeat made into balls about the size of marbles 
Line the edge of the pie dish with any paste preferred and 
cover th«" whole with the same, make a hole in the centre and 
bake ab^^t one to one and a half hours. 

674. Veal,Chicken& Parsley Pie— Ingredients— Slices of neck 

or leg of veal, salt, parsley, milk, crust, j!^ pint of cream. 

Take the slices of veal (if from the leg, about the knuckle), 
season them with the salt ; scald some parsley picked from the 
stems, and press it dry ; cut it a little, and lay it at the bottom 
kji the dish ; then put the meat, and §0 on, in layers. Fill the 
dish with milk, but not so high as the crust ; cover it with 
crust, and when baked pour out a little of the milk, and put in 
the scalded cream. Chickens may be cut up and cooked in 
the same way. 

675. Mutton Pie — Ingredients— Loin of mutton, 2 kidneys, pepper 

and salt to taste, }4 pint of gravy or water, a httle minced parsley, a 
liitle onion if liked. 

Cut the meat into chops, remove the bone and trim them 
neatly, allowing a very small piece of fat to each chop. Cut 
the kidneys into small pieces also and ihix with the mutton ; 
arrange neatly in pie dish, sprinkle parsley and seasoning, 
pepper and salt over it, then pour in the gravy and cover with 
puff or any paste preferred. Bake one and a half hours. 

676. Lemon Pie — Ingredients — Crust, l lemon, i^ cups of white 

sugar, I cup of water, a piece of butter the size of an egg, i table- 
spoonfiil of flour, I egg. 



196 The Dominion Cook Book. 

First make your crust as usual ; cover your pie tins. (I 
use my jelly cake tins) and bake exactly as for tart crusts. If 
you make more than you need, never mind, they will keep. 
While they are baking, if they rise in the centre, take a fork 
and open the crust to let the air out. Now make the filling as 
follows : For one pie take a nice lemon and grate off the out- 
side, taking care to get only the yellow ; the white is bitter. 
Squeeze out all the juice ; add white sugar, water, and butter. 
Put in a basin on the stove. When it boils stir in the flour, 
and the yolk of one egg, beaten smooth with a little water. 
When it boils thick take oflf the stove and let it cool. Fill your 
pie crust with this. Beat the white of an egg stiff; add a heap- 
ing tablespoonful of sugar; pour over the top of the pie. 
Brown carefully in the oven. 

677. Lemon Pie {2} — Ingredients — i cup of sugar, I tablespoonful 

butter, I egg, i lemon, juice and rind, i teacupful of boiling water 
?nd I tablespoonful corn starch. 

Dissolve the corn starch in a little cold. water, then stir it 
-into the boiling water ; cream the butter and sugar, then pour 
over them the hot mixture ; cool, add the lemon juice, rind and 
beaten egg ; bake with or without upper crust. 

678. Lemon Pie (3) — Ingredients — 3 eggs, i large spoonful of butter, 

I small cup of sugar, juice and rind of a lemon. 

Beat the butter and sugar until like cream. Beat the yolks 
and whites of the eggs separately, grate the lemon peel and 
strain the juice, add the yolks and lemon to the butter and 
sugar, and mix well. Then bake in two open tins of paste. 
Beat the whites to a stiff meringue, with three tablespoonfuls 
of sugar and a few drops of rose water. When the pies are 
done spread the meringue over and return to the oven for five 
minutes. «,- 

679. Peach Pie— Ingredients — Puff or short crust, peaches, sugar. 
Line a dish with a nice crust, skin the peaches, remove the 

stones, and put the fruit into the dish, with a little sugar and 
water. Cover with crust and bake a golden brown. 

680. Rhubarb Pie — Ingredients — Rhubarb, a little lemon peel, sugar, 

water, short crust. 

Take a deep pie dish, wipe with a clean damp cloth the 
stalks, cut into pieces about an inch in length, mince the lemon 
peel, line the edge of the dish with the crust, then fill the dish 



Pastry and Puddings. 197 

with rhubarb, sugar and lemon, adding a cup of water. Cover 
with crust, making a hole in the middle. Bake about three 
quarters of an hour. 

681. Gooseberry Pie — Ingredients — Gooseberries, sugar, crust. 

Top and tail the berries, line the edge of a deep dish with 
short crust. Put the berries into it witli at least six ounces of 
moist sugar and a little water. . Cover with upper crust and 
bake from half to three quarters of an "hour. 
6S2. Red Currants and Raspberry Pie— Ingredients— i qt. of 

currants, ^ pt. of raspberries, 6 oz. of moist sugar, crust. 

Pick the currants, and proceed as above. 

683. CoCOanut Pie — Ingredients — I cup of grated cocoanut, ^ pt. of 

milk, 2 crackers, 3 eggs, butter, salt, rind of % lemon, sugar if 
desired, puff crust. 

Make a nice puff crust, line a dish and bake, when done, 
set aside to cool ; soak the cocoanut in the milk, pound the 
crackers, well whisk the eggs, and grate the rind of the half 
lemon. Mix all together, adding a little salt, sugar and butter. 
When well mixed place in the pie dish, and put in the oven to 
slightly brown. 

684. Pudding; Pies — Ingredients — lyi, pts. milk, X 1^. ground rice, 

X lb. of butter, ^ lb. of white sugar, 6 eggs, puff paste, a few 
currants, flavoring. 

Put the lemon rind in the milk, and set on the stove to 
infuse ; when well flavored strain, add the rice, and allow it to 
come to a boil slowly, and boil ten or fifteen minutes, stirring 
all the' time. Remove from the fire and add butter and sugar ; 
well whisk the eggs and add also. Line patty pans with puff 
paste, put about a tablespoonful in each pie. Strew a few cur- 
rants on each pie and bake abou^ twenty minutes. 

68S- Pumpkin Pie — Ingredients — i pt. of well stewed and strained 
pumpkin, I <li. of scalding hot rich milk, i^ cups of sugar, 4 eggs, 
I teaspoonfulof salt, 1 tablespoonful of ginger and i of ground cinna- 
mon. 

Bake in pie plate lined with good paste ; do not let mixture 
stand after it is put together, but bake at once. 
686. PumpStin Pie (2) — Ingredients — I qt. of stewed pumpkin pressed 
through a sieve, 9 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 2 qts. 
milk, 1 teaspoonful of mace, I of cinnamon and i of nutmeg, i^ 
cups of sugar. 
Beat all together and bake with one crust. 



198 The Dominion Cook Book. 

687. Pumpkin Pie (3)— Ingredients — A pumpkin, i good cupful of 

molasses, to a whole pumpkin allow 3 pts. of rich milk, 4 e^s, some 
salt, a little cinnamon, brown sugar to taste, crust. 

Prepare the pumpkin by cutting into small pieces. Stew 
rapidly until it is soft and the water is stewed out, then let it 
remain on the stove to simmer all day. When well cooked 
add the molasses, and cook all down until dry. Then sift 
through a cullender, it will nearly all go through if properly 
cooked. Then add the milk, spices and eggs. Too much 
spice destroys the flavor of the pumpkin. Sweeten to taste. 
Then bake in a crust the same as for custard. Let it cook 
until of a dark brown color. This is a very wholesome dish. 

688. Marlborough Pie — Ingredients — 6 tart apples, 6 oz. of sugar, 

6 oz. of butter or thick cream, 6 eggs, the grated peel of i lemon, 
and yi, the juice. 

Grate the apples, after paring and coring them ; stir together 
the butter and sugar, as for cake ; then add the other ingredi- 
ents, and bake in a rich under paste only. 

689. Frencll Pancaltes— Ingredients — J eggs, nearlya pt. of cream, 

I oz. of butter. 

Beat the cream till it is stiff, and the yolks and whites separ- 
ately, and add to the cream and beat the mixture for five min- 
utes ; butter the pan and fry quickly, sugar and roll, and place 
on a hot dish in the oven. Serve very hot. 

690. French Pancalces (2) — Ingredients — % pt. of milk, 2 oz. of 

butter, 2 oz. of loaf sugar, 2 oz. of flour, 2 eggs. 

Put milk, butter and sugar into a saucepan to dissolve (not 
boil), beat eggs and flour together till quite smooth, then add 
the other ingredients and well mix. Divide this quantity and 
put it in four saucers to bake for twenty minutes ; lay two pan- 
cakes on a dish, and spread preserve over, cover them with the 
other two pancakes ; serve very hot. 

691. Rice Pancakes— Ingredients — Yz lb. of rice, I pt. of creaip, 8 

eggs, a little Salt and nutmeg, % lb. of butter, flour. 
Boil the rice to a jelly in a small quantity of water; when 
cold, mix it with the cream, well whisk the eggs and add also, 
with a little salt and nutmeg. Then stir in the butter, just 
warmed, and add, slowly stirring all the time, as much flour as 
will make the batter thick enough. Fry in as little lard as 
possible. 



Pastry and Puddings. 19^ 

692. Irish Pancakes — Ingredients — 8 eggs, l pt. of cream, nutmeg 

and sugar to taste, 3 oz. of butter, ^ pt. of flour. 

Beat eight yolks and four whites of eggs, strain them into 
the cream, put in grated nutmeg and sugar to taste ; set three 
ounces of fresh butter on the fire, stir it, and as it warms pour 
it to the cream, which should be warm when the eggs are put 
to it ; then mix smooth almost half a pint of flour. Fry the 
pancakes very thin ; the first with a piece of butter, but not 
the others. Serve several on one another. 

693. English Pancakes— Ingredients— 4 oz, flour, 2 eggs, a little 

more than % pt. of milk, a pinch of salt, 2 oz. of lard, a few drops 
of lemon juice, 2 oz. of sugar. 

Add the salt to the flour, break the eggs into the flour with 
a spoonful of milk, and mix well ; then add slowly the rest of 
the milk, mixing all the time ; grease the pan with a small piece 
of lard, and proceed to fry them (they should be very thin) ; 
and as they are done put two or three drops of lemon juice 
and a sprinkling of sugar on each. 

694. Apple Pie — Ingredients — Some nice cooking apples, sugar, some 

shred lemon peel, juice or a glass of cider. 

Pare and core the fruit having wiped the outsides with a 
damp cloth. Then boil the apples in a little water with the 
cores until it tastes well, strain, and put a little sugar, and a 
piece of bruised cinnamon, and simmer again. In the meantime 
place the apples in a dish, a paste being put round the edge ; 
when one layer is in, sprinkle half the sugar, and shred lemon peel, 
and squeeze some juice over, put in the rest of the apples, sugar, 
and the liquor that you have boiled. Cover with paste. You may 
add some butter when cut, if eaten hot ; or put quince-marma- 
lade, orange paste, or cloves, to flavor. 

695. Another Apple Pie— Ingredients — Pufif paste, apples, sugar 

(brown will do), a small quantity of finely minced lemon peel, and 
lemon juice. 
Prepare the paste (See Recipe No. 710), spread a narrow 
strip round the edge of your baking dish, and put in the fruit 
which you have previously peeled, cored and cut into con- 
venient slices. Sweeten according to taste and add the flavor- 
ing. Cover with a pie crust, making a small hole in the middle, 
and place in the oven to bake. When nearly done ice the crust 
with the white of an egg, beaten to a froth and spread lightly 



200 The Dominion Cook Book. 

over it Sprinkle with white sugar and replace in the oven 
until done. 

696. Orange and Apple PiO— Ingredients— Puff paste, orai^es, 

apples, sugar. 

Cover a tin pieplate with puff pastry and place a layer of 
sliced oranges, with the pips removed, on it, and scatter sugar 
over them. Then put a layer of sliced apples, with sugar, and 
cover with slices of oranges and sugar. Put an upper crust of 
nice pastry over the pie, and bake it for half an hour, or until 
the apples are perfectly soft. Take the pie from the tin plate 
while it is warm, put into a china plate and scatter sugar over 
the top. 

697. Apple Tart — Ingredients — Puff paste, apple marmalade, i egg. 
Lay a disc of puff paste on a round tin, spread a layer (about 

three-eighths 'of an inch thick) of apple marmalade over it, 
leaving a rim an inch wide clear all round ; roll out and cut some 
of the paste in strips the size of a straw ; form a trellis work with 
them over the marmalade, then put a border of paste all round 
over the rim. Glaze the top of the border and trellis with 
beaten-up egg, and bake in quick oven. 

doK Rice Paste ■for Tartlets— Ingredients— 7 oz. of rice, i 
tablespoonful of butter, 2 eggs. 

Simmer the rice until tender, drain, place in a marble mortar 
with the butter and well whisked eggs ; beat thoroughly, and 
with the hands make into paste. 

699. To Ice or Glaze Pastry-^Ingredients— The whites of 3 eggs, 

4 oz. sugar. 

Place the whites upon a plate (beaten with a knife to a stiff 
froth), just before the pastry is done remove from the oven ; 
brush with the beaten egg and sprinkle the white sugar upon it. 
Return to the oven to set. 

700. Glaze — Ingredients — The yolk of 3 eggs, a small piece of warm 

butter, white sugar. 

Beat the yolks and butter together, and with a pastry brush 
the pastry just before it is finished baking, sift white sugar 
upon it and return to the oven to dry. 

701. Lleht Paste for Tarts— ingredients— l egg, ^ lb. of flour 

>rib. butter. 

Beat the white of an egg to a strong froth, then mix it with 



Pastry and Puddings. 



as much water as will make the flour into a very stiff paste ; 
roll it very thin, then lay the third part of half a pound of butter 
upon it in little pieces ; dredge with some flour left out at first 
and roll up tight. Roll it out again, and put the same propor- 
tion of butter, and so proceed till all be worked up. 

702. Genoise Pastry— Ingredients— X lb- of the freshest butter, 4 

oz. of white sugar, 4 eggs, % lb. of fine flour. 

Take the butter, put it in a bowl, and warm it until it can 
be beaten with a spoon ; add to it the sugar, and beat the two 
together until a smooth white cream is obtained, then add one 
egg, and keep on beating the mixture till it is smooth again, 
then add three more eggs in the same manner. The speck of 
the eggs should be removed. Lastly, incorporate quickly with 
the mixture the flour, and as soon as it is smooth pour it out to 
the thickness of half an inch on a buttered flat tin, and put it 
into the oven at once. When done (in about ten or fifteen 
minutes) turn out the slab of Genoise, and put it to cool, under 
side uppermost, on a sieve. There is a great knack in beating 
this paste to prevent its curdling. Should this happen, it can 
generally be remedied by beating as quickly as possible until 
the mixture is smooth again. 

703. Chocolate Genoise — Ingredients — icing, % lb. white sugar, 

2 oz. of grated chocolate, and about a gill of water. Genoise pastry 
as above, apricot jam. 

Prepare the icing as follows : — Put the sugar in a sugar 
boiler and add the chocolate and water ; stir over the fire until 
the mixture assumes the consistency of a smooth thick cream. 
Take a slab of Genoise, spread on the top of it the thinnest 
possible coating of apricot jam, then a coating of the icing. 
Put it into a very hot oven for rather less than a minute, take 
it out, and place it in a cold place to get cool ; then cut it up 
with a sharp knife in lozenges or any other shape, and serve 
piled up on a napkin. 

704. Almond Genoise — Ingredients — 2 oz. of blanched almonds, a 

little orange flower water, 2 oz. of fresh butter (warmed), 4 oz. of white 

sugar, yolks of 4, and whites of 2 eggs, 4 oz. of fine flour, essence of 

vanilla, apricot jam. Icing : — whites of 2 eggs, lemon juice, a little 

glace sugar. 

Beat in a mortar the almonds, moistening with the orange 

flower water to prevent oiling. Beat in a bowl the butter and 

sugar, add the almonds and the yolks and whites of the eggs, 



The Dominion Cook Book. 



one at a time, then very gradually add the flour. Continue 
beating until the mixture is perfectly smooth, then flavor it 
with some essence of vanilla, and bake as above. Spread the 
Genoise with apricot jam as above, and, instead of chocolate, 
use icing made as follows : — Put the whites of the eggs into a 
basin with a little of the lemon juice and some of the sugar. 
Work the mixture well with a wooden spoon, and as it gets 
thin, add more sugar, until a smooth paste of the consistency 
of butter is obtained. Lay this icing on the slab of Genoise 
with a palette knife, put it in the oven for a minute to set the 
fcing, afld take it out at once in a cool place, then cut up the 
slab as above. 

705. Almond Pastry— Ingredients— X lb. of flour, X pt. of milk, a 

piece of butter the size of an egg, juice of I lemon, white sugar to 
taste, a handful of sweet almonds, yolks of 4 eggs, whites of 3 eggs. 

Make a batter with the flour, milk, lemon juice and sugar. 
Mix in (off" the fire) the sweet almonds, chopped up, and the 
yolks. Let the whole get cold, then work into it the whites, 
whisked to a froth, and spread out the batter on a baking sheet. 
Sift plenty of powdered sugar over, bake ten minutes in a slow 
oven, and cut it out in strips ; serve hot or cold. 

706. Almond Pastry (2) — Ingredients — 3 oz. of almonds, % lb. 

butter, 2 oz. of loaf sugar, a little rose water. 

Pound the almonds, butter, and loaf sugar with a little rose 
water till it becomes a thick paste. Spread it on a buttered 
tin, bake in a slow oven. When cold divide it into eight pieces, 
put a spoonful of preserves on each piece, and cover with 
whipped cream. 

707. Pyramid Paste— Ingredients— A sheet of puff paste, raspberry 

or apricot jam, or currant jelly, dried greengages, cherries or bar- 
berries. 

Roll out the puff" paste to half an inch thick ; cut or stamp 
it into oval shapes ; the first, the siee of the bottom of the dish 
in which you serve it, the next smaller, and so on till it forms a 
pyramid ; then lay each piece separately on paper in a baking 
plate, egg the tops of the pieces, and bake them of a light color. 
When done, take them off" the paper, lay them on a large dish 
till cold, set the largest piece in the dish, put on it either of the 
above preserves, lay the next size on that, and more sweetmeats, 
nnd proceed in the same way with the other pieces till they are 



Wastry and Puddings. 203 

ail placed on each other. Put dried greengages, barberries, or 
cherries round, and serve. Instead of stamping the pieces, they 
may be cut with a sharp knife; small pieces maybe cutout 
round the edges to appear like spires, which will cause the 
paste to appear still lighter. 

708. Paste for Mince Pies— Ingredients— 2 lbs. of the finest 
pastry flour, 2 lbs. of fresh butter, the yolks of 4 fresh eggs, 2 pinches 
of salt, the juice of half a lemon, tepid water. 

Work the butter in a napkin till it is well freed from water. 
Place the flour on the pastry slab in a heap, make a hole in 
the middle of it, put in it the yolks of the eggs, freed from the 
speck, salt, the juice of half a lemon, and the fourth part of the 
butter cut up in very small pieces; work the paste as quickly as 
possible with the fingers of one hand, adding as much moder- 
ately tepid water as will make the paste smooth, and of the same 
consistency as the remaining one and a half pounds of buttet. 
Beat the latter out into a flat square piece an inch in thickness ; 
roll out the paste to four times the size of the piece of butter, 
lay this in the centre of the paste, which you fold over on each 
side, and roll out again to three times its original size, then 
fold over two sides only of the piece of paste, and roll it out 
again as before. Repeat this operation twice, cover the paste 
with a woollen cloth, and let it rest for half an hour. The oper- 
ation of rolling out and folding up the paste is called " giving a 
turn." After the paste has rested, two more turns are to be 
given to it, and it will be ready. 

709. Pastry for Sweet Sandwiches— Ingredients— 7 table- 

spoonfuls of flour, 7 tablespoonfuls of butter, 6 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, 7 eggs. 

Place the butter in a stewpan on the stove to melt ; sift the 
flour, add the sugar to the eggs (having removed them from the 
shell), place the basin containing the eggs and sigar in a sauce- 
pan of boiling water and whip the contents a quarter of an 
hour ; then remove from the fire ; now add the butter and sift 
in the flour, lightly stirring all the time. Bake in tins lined 
with buttered paper, put into a quick oven and test with broom 
straw. 

N. B. — When the butter is on the stove take care it does 
not burn, only allow it to melt. 

710. Puff Paste— Ingredients— I lb. of flour, i lb. of butter, I egg, 

cold water. 



204 The Dominion Cook Book. 

Mix the flour with a lump of butter the size of an egg, and 
the egg to a very stiff paste with cold water; divide the butter 
into six equal parts, roll the paste and spread on one part of 
the butter, dredging it with flour; repeat until all the butter is 
rolled in. 

711. Short Crust— Ingredients— ^ lb. of flour, 3 oz. of butter, 2 02. 
of white sugar, a pinch of salt, yolks of 3 eggs. 

Rub into the flour the butter and the powdered loaf sugar ; 
beat up the yolks of the eggs, the salt, and enough milk or 
water to make the flour into a paste ; work the paste lightly, 
and roll it out thin. If not wanted sweet, the sugar can be . 
left out. 

7.12. Flead Crust- Ingredients— iX lb. of flour, 10 oz. of flead, salt 
to taste, a glass of water. 

Remove skin, and cut into thin flakes and rub into the flour ; 
add a sprinkling of salt and work the whole into a paste with 
the water ; fold the paste over three times, beat it well with a 
rolling pin, roll out, and it is ready for use. This will be found 
extremely light if well prepared. 

713. Dripping: Crust for Kitchen Use— Ingredients— i lb. 
of flour, 5 oz. of clarified beef dripping, a glass of water. 

Work the flour into a paste with the water ; roll into a sheet 
and spread upon it two ounces of the dripping ; repeat this 
twice, be sure to use good beef ■dripping. If wanted for a 
short crust, half a teacupful of moist sugar may be added. 

7i4< Suet Crust for IVIeat PudcSings— Ingredients— 8 oz.uf 
flour, 5 oz. of beef suet, a little salt. 

Removeall skin from the suet, chop finely, and mix with the 
flour, adding a little salt, mix well, and add by degrees a little 
cold water and make into a paste ; flour the paste board and 
place the paste upon it, roll out to the thickness "of a quarter 
of an inch. It is then ready for use. 

715. Potato Paste — Ingredients— Potatoes, butter, an egg. 

Pound boiled potatoes very fine, and add, while warm, a 
sufficiency of butter to make the mash hold together, or you 
may mix it with an egg ; then before it gets cold, flour the 
board pretty well to prevent it from sticking, and roll it to the 
thigkness wanted. If it has become quite cold before it be put 
on the dish, it will be apt to crack. 



Pastry and Puddings. 205 

716. Flaky Crust for Pies or Tarts— Ingredients— i lb. oi 

flour, y^ lb. butter, i^ teaspoonfuls baking powder, 2 eggs, % pt. 
of water. 

Mix the baking powder with the flour, whip the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth, then add to the flour and mix into a 
stiff paste with quarter of a pint of water; flour the paste 
board, and roll out the paste to a thin sheet, divide the butter 
into three, take one part and spread over the paste, sprinkle a 
little flour over and fold into three, roll again and spread 
second portion of butter, fold as before and add the rest of the 
butter, fold again and roll the thickness required; bake in 
quick oven. 

717. Butter Crust for Boiled Puddings— Ingredients— >^ lb. 

of flour, 3 oz. of butter, a gill of water. 
Make the flour into a paste with the water, roll thin and 
place the butter upon it cut in small pieces, sprinkle a little 
flour over and fold the paste, roll again into a sheet the thick- 
ness required. 

718. Baked Suet Crust— Ingredients — Equal proportions of sifted 

flour and beef suet, sprinkling of salt. 
Shred beef suet very thin ; take equal proportions of sifted 
flour, roll a little suet with a little flour ; put it aside as you do 
it, and continue the process until all the suet and flour are 
rolled together into flakes ; gather them into a heap on the 
board, sprinkle them with water, using as little as possible, to 
make the mass into paste ; when it is worked into a smooth 
paste, beat it a little with the rolling pin, and roll out as thin as 
possible ; fold it over to the required thickness, and put it on 
the pie; bake rather quickly. This crust should be eaten before 
quite cold, and, if properly made, will be a very good and light 
puff paste. 

719. Spanish Fritters— Ingredients— Crumbs of a French roll, 

cream, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, I egg, butter and sugar 

sauce. 
Cut the crumb of the French roll into lengths about three- 
quarters of an inch thick, in any shape you please. Soak in 
the cream, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon and egg. Fry 
a nice brown and serve with the butter and sugar sauce. 
/20. Cream Fritters— Ingredients— 3 tablespoonfuls of potato flour, 

I pt. of new milk, 2 whole eggs, yolks of 4 eggs, a pat of very fresh 

butter, powdered white sugar to taste, a few drops of essence of 

almonds, bread crumbs. 



2o6 The Dominion Cook Book. 

Make a smooth paste with the flour, and'a part of the milk ; 
then gradually add the remainder of the milk, the eggs, and 
yolks, the butter, white sugar to taste, and essence of almonds. 
Put the mixture into a saucepan on the fire, stirring all the 
while till it is quite thick. Spread out on a slab until of thick- 
ness of half an inch. When quite cold cut into lozenges ; egg 
and bread crumb them, or dip in the butter ; fry a nice color 
in lard and serve sprinkled with white sugar. 

721. Rice Fritters — Ingredients — 3 tablespoonfuls of rice, 4 well 

beaten eggs, % lb. of currants, grated lemon peel, nutmeg and sugar 
to taste, flour. 

Boil the rice until it has fully swelled, then drain quite dry 
and mix with the eggs, the currants, grated lemon peel, and 
nutmeg and sugar to taste. Stir in as much flour as will thick- 
en it, and fry in hot lard. 

722. Plain Fritters— Ingredients— Crumbs of bread, I pt. of milk, 

yolks of 5 eggs, 3 oz. of sifted white sugar, and grated nutmeg, melted 
butter, and sugar. 

Grate the bread crumbs and add the hot milk, mix smooth 
and when cold add the yolks, sugar and nutmeg. Fry them, 
and when done serve with melted butter and sugar poured 
round. 

723. Custard Fritters— Ingredients— Yolks of 8 eggs, I spoonful 

of flour, % a nutmeg, salt, i pt. of cream, sugar to taste. Patter : 
}i pt. of cream, }^ pt. of milk, 4 eggs, a little flour, and a little 
grated ginger. 

Beat the yolks with the flour, nutmeg and salt, put in the 
creav, sweeten to taste and bake on a small dish. When 
cpld cut into slices and dip into a batter made in the above 
proportions. Fry them and when done sprinkle with white 
sugar. 

724. Clieese Fritters — Ingredients — About a pint of water, a piece 

of butter the size of an egg, the least piece of cayenne, plenty of 
black pepper, % lb. of ground Parmesan cheese, yolks of 2 or 3 
eggs, and whites of 2 beaten to a froth, salt, flour. 

Put the water into a saucepan with the butter, cayenne, and 
black pepper. When the water boils throw gradually into it 
sufficient flour to form a thick paste; then take it off the fire 
and work into it the Parmesan cheese, and then the yolks and 
whites of the egg's. Let the paste rest for a couple of hours, 
and proceed to fry by dropping pieces of it the size of a wal- 



Pastry and Puddings. 207 

nut into plenty of hot lard. Serve sprinkled with very fine 
salt. 

725. Raspberry Fritters— Ingredients— Crumbs of a French roll, 

I pt. of boiling cream, yolks of 4 eggs, well beaten, raspberry juice, 
some blanched sliced almonds. 

Grate the crumb of the French roll, and mix with the 
cream. When cold add the yolks of the eggs. Mix altogether 
with the raspberry juice ; drop them into a pan of boiling lard 
in very small quantities. When done stick over with the 
almonds. 

726. Almond PufFs — Ingredients — 2 oz. of sweet almonds, a little 

orange flower water, whites of three eggs, some sifted sugar. 

Blanch and beat the almonds, moistening with a little orange- 
flower water ; whisk the whites of the eggs to a froth, strew in 
sifted sugar ; mix the almonds with the sugar and eggs, and 
continue adding the sugar till the mixture is as thick as paste. 
Lay it in cakes and bake on paper in a cool oven. 

727. PufFs for Dessert — Ingredients — i pt. of milk and cream, 

the white of 4 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, i heaping cup of sifted 
flour, I scant cup of powdered sugar, add a little grated lemon peel 
and a little salt. 

Beat these altogether till very light, bake in gem pans, sift 
pulverized sugar over them and eat with sauce flavored with 
lemon. 

728. Plain Puff's — Ingredients — Yolks of 6 eggs, i pt. of sweet milk, 

a large pinch of salt, whites of 6 eggs, flour. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs till very light, stir in th^ milk, 
salt and the whites beaten to a stiff froth, and flour enough to 
make a batter about as thick as a boiled custard. Bake in small 
tins in a quick oven. 

729. Spanish Puff's— Ingredients — Ateacupfiilofwater, atablespoon- 

ful of sugar, a pinch of salt, 2 oz. of butter, flour, yolks of 4 eggs. 

Put the water into a saucepan, the sugar, salt and butter : 
while it is boiling add sufiScient flour for it to leave the sauce- 
pan ; stir in one by one the yolks of the four eggs ; drop a 
teaspoonful at a time into boiling lard ; fry them a light brown. 

730. Cream Puffs — Ingredients— l pt. of water, ^ lb. of butter, ^ 

lb. of sifted flour, 10 eggs, I small teaspoon of soda, mock cream, 
cup of sugar, 4 eggs, I cup of flour, I qt. of milk flavoring. 

Boil the water, rub the flour with the butter ; stir into the 



2o8 The Dominion Cook Book. 

water while boiling. When it thickens like starch removo from 
the fire. When cool stir into it the well-beaten eggs and the 
soda. Drop the mixture on to the buttered tins with a large 
spoon. Bake until a light brown, in a quick oven. When done, 
open one side and fill with mock cream made as follows in the 
above proportions : beat eggs to a froth ; stir in the sugar, then 
flour ; stir them into the milk while boiling ; stir till it thickens ; 
then remove from the fire and flavor with lemon or vanilla. It 
should not be put into the pufifs until cold. 

731. Orange Puffs — Ingredients — Rind and juice of 4 oranges, z lbs. 

of sifted sugar, butter. 

Grate the rind of the oranges, add the sugar, pound together 
and make into a stiff paste with the butter and juice of the 
fruit ; roll it, cut into shapes and bake in a cool oven. Serve 
piled up on a dish with sifted sugar over. 

732. Graham Puffs— Ingredients— To i qt. of Graham flour, add X 

pt. fine white flour, and enough milk or water, z. little warm, to 
make a thick batter ; no salt or baking powder. 

Have your oven hotter than for biscuit, and your gem pans 
standing in the oven till you get ready. Beat batter thoroughly, 
grease your pans, and drop in while the irons are smoking hot. 
Bake quickly a nice brown. 

733. Lemon Puffs — Ingredients — I lb. of double refined sugar, juice 

and rinds of 2 lemons, white of i egg, 3 whole eggs. 

Bruise the sugar, and sift through a fine sieve, put it into a 
bowl with the juice of the lemons and mix well together. Beat 
the white of egg to a very stiff froth, put it into your bowl, add 
the remaining eggs, with the rinds of the lemons grated. Mix 
well up and throw sugar on your papers, drop on the puffs in 
small drops and in a moderately heated oven. 

734. Chocolate Puffs— Ingredients— ^ a lb. of double refined 

surgar, i oz. of chocolate, white of an egg. 

Beat and sift the sugar, scrape into it, very finely, the choco^ 
late and mix well together. Beat the white of the egg to a 
stiff froth and strew in the chocolate and sugar, beat till as 
stiff as paste. Then sugar the paper, drop them in very small 
quantities and bake in a slow oven. 

735. Lemon Cheesecakes- Ingredients— Boil the peel of 2 

large lemons, pound well in a mortar, with a J^ of a pound of loaf 
sugar, the yolks of 6 eggs, ^ a lb. of fresh buttei, and some curd 
beaten fine. 



Pastry and Puddings. 209 

Mix all together, lay a puff paste on the pattypans, fill them 
half full, and bake them. Orange cheesecakes are done the 
same way ; but the peel must be boiled in two or three waters, 
to take off its bitter taste before it is put in. 

736. Curd Cheesecakes— Ingredients— 2 qts. of milk, % lb. of 

butter, salt, sugar, 3 rolled biscuits, a little spice and cloves, 8 eggs 
(using only 4 whites), 2 spoonfuls of orange flower water, ^ lb. 
of currants. 

Turn the milk; then dry the curd by pouring it through a 
sieve; put it in the pan and rub in the butter, add the salt, sugar, 
biscuits, spice, cloves and eggs, well beaten up in the orange 
flower water; wash all well together through a coarse sieve, 
adding the currants. 

737. Maids of Honour— Ingredients— PuflF paste, I lb. of sugar 

(white), yolks of 12 eggs, i oz. of sweet blanched almonds, 9 bitter 
almonds, 4 tablespoonfuls of orange flower water. 

Line small tartlet tins with puff paste and fill with this mix- 
ture ; beat the sugar with the yolks in a mortar, adding the 
almonds and orange flower water just before filling the tarts. 
Bake in a moderately heated oven. 

738. Almond Tarts — Ingredients — Sweet almonds, sugar (I lb. of 

sugar to I lb. of almonds), grated bread, nutmeg, cream, and the 
juice of some spinach to color. 

Blanch and beat fine the almonds with the other ingredients. 
Bake in a gentle oven, and when done ornament with sliced 
candied orange or citron. 

739. Greengase Tart — Ingredients — Some greengages, sugar, % a 

glass of water, short paste, 2 whites and 3 yolks of eggs, I oz. of 
butter, oz. of sugar, a pinch of salt, flour, rice. 

Stone the fruit and stew them for an hour, with plenty of 
sugar and the water. Make a short paste with one of the 
whites and the three yolks of the eggs, the butter, sugar, salt, 
water and flour quant suff. Roll it out to the thickness of a 
penny piece, line a tourte mould with it uniting the joints with 
white of egg, fill it with rice and bake it. When done remove 
the rice, put in the stewed fruit, and serve. 

740. Raspberry and Currant Tartlets— Ingredients— Short 

Easte, white of I and yolks of three eggs, I oz. of sugar, i oz. of 
utter, a pinch of salt, and flour quant, suff., uncooked rice, rasp- 
berries and currants, syrup, sugar. 

Make the short paste in the above proportions; work it 
14 



2IO The Dominion Cook Book. 

lightly, roll out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Line 
some pattypans with it, fill them with uncooked rice to keep 
their shape, and bake them in a moderate oven till done. 
Remove the stalks from the raspberries and currants, add some 
syrup made with the sugar, empty the tartlets of the rice, fill 
each with the fruit, put them into the oven to get hot, and serve. 
They may also be served cold. 

741. Cherry Tart — Ingredients — Short paste as above; i^ lbs. of 

stewing cherries, sugar, a few drops of cochineal, rice. 

Work the paste lightly, roll it out to the thickness of a quar- 
ter of an inch ; line a flat mould with the paste, uniting the 
joints carefully with the white of egg, fill the mould with rice 
and bake it. Stone the cherries and cook them with the sugar, 
and cochineal to give them a nice color. Remove the rice and 
put in the stewed cherries. Serve hot or cold. 

742. Apple Tartlets — Ingredients — A few large apples, the juice and 

rind of a lemon, i lb. of sugar, i qt. of water, 2 cloves. For paste 
2 oz. of sugar, 2 02. of butter, the yolks of 4 eggs, a little water, a 
pinch of salt, a little flour and rice. 

Peel, core, and halve some large apples, trimming them so 
as to get them all of one size ; drop them as they are done 
into cold water with the juice of a lemon squeezed into it to 
prevent their turning brown. Have ready a syrup (made with 
one pound of sugar and one quart of water) boiling hot, put 
the apples into this, with the thin rind of a lemon and two or 
three cloves. As soon as they are cooked (great care must be 
taken that they do not break), take them out and leave them 
to get cold, then set the syrup on the fire to reduce. Make 
some short paste with the above ingredients, work it lightly and 
roll it out to the thickness of one-eighth of an inch. Line some 
pattypans with it, fill them with uncooked rice to keep their 
shape; bake them in a moderate oven till done. Remove the 
rice, and place on each tartlet half an apple, the concave side 
uppermost, pour a little of the reduced syrup on each tartlet, 
and lastly, put a piece of guava or currant jelly in the cavity of 
each apple. 

743. Apple Tart (i) — Ingredients — Puff paste, apple marmalade, 

apples, sugar. 
Lay a disc of puff paste on a round tin, and place a strip of 
paste all round it as for an ordinary jam tart. Spread on the 



Pastry and Puddings. 



inside a layer of apple marmalade a quarter of an inch thick. 
Peel and core the apples, cut them in slices a quarter of an 
inch thick, trim all the slices to the same shape, dispose all 
these over the marmalade, overlapping each other, and in 
some kind of pattern ; strew plenty of sugar over, and bake in 
a quick oven till the apples are a good color. 

744. Apple Tart (2) — Ingredients — Short paste, 6 apples, thin rind and 

juice of a lemon, white sugar, 4 or 5 eggs. 

Line a flan mould (a flat tin with an upright edge one inch 
to one and a half inches high) with a thin crust of short paste 
Stew the peeled, cored, and quartered apples with a little 
water, the thin rind of the lemon, and white sugar quant, suff.; 
when quite tender, beat them up with a fork ; add the juice and 
grated rind of the lemon, and work in one by one the yolks of 
the eggs, pour this mixture in the mould, and bake in a quick 
oven about half an hour. 

745. Apple Tart (3) — Ingredients — Some uncooked rice, apple mar- 

malade, apricot jam, icing, glace su£;ar, white of eggs. 

Line a flan mould as above, fill it with rice, and bake it ; 
when done remove the rice and garnish it with a layer of apple 
marmalade. Spread over it a thin layer of apricot jam, and 
over that a thick layer of icing, made with the glace sugar and 
whites of egg beaten up. Put the tin in a very slack oven, just 
long enough to set the icing without coloring it, and serve cold. 
It may be ornamented with blanched pistachio nuts, strips of 
angelica, and candied cherries laid on the icing, before put- 
ting the tart in the oven. 

N. B. — To make icing, as much sugar should be beaten up 
with the white of egg as it will absorb until the mixture is of 
the consistency of the thickest double cream ; whereas to make 
meringue, not more than half an ounce of sugar should be used 
for each white of egg. 

746. Apple PufFetS — Ingredients — 2 eggs, i pt. of milk, sufficient 

flour to thicken, as waffle batter, iji teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Fill a teacup alternately with a layer of batter and then of 
apples chopped fine ; steam one hour. Serve hot, with flavored 
^ream and sugar. 

747. Apple Turnovers— Ingredients — I lb. of flour, 5 01. of drip- 

ping or butter, small teaspoonful of baking powder, 4 apples 
(allowing l for each turnover), 4 teaspoonfuls of brown sugar. 



The Dominion Cook Book. 



Pare, core and slice the apples. Mix the baking powder 
into the flour, then add the dripping or butter, mixing well 
together. Moisten with cold water and stir to a paste. Roll 
out, cut into circles about seven inches in diameter. Put the 
apple on one of the rounds and sprinkle with sugar. Moisten 
the edges of the paste and shape in the form of a turnover. 




748. Oranses. 

Oranges may be prepared for table in the following manner : 
— Cut gently through the peel only, from the point of the 
orange at the top to dent made at the stalk at the bottom, 
dividing the outside of the orange into cloves or sections, seven 
or eight in number. Loosen the peel carefully, and take each 
section o£F, leaving it only attached at the bottom. Scrape the 
white off the orange itself, and turn in each section double to 
the bottom of the orange, so that the whole looks like a dahlia 
or some other flower. 

749. Almonds and Raisins. 

Serve on r glass dish, the raisins piled high in the centre. 
Blanch the almonds and strew over them. 

750. Frosted Currants. 

Froth the white of an egg or eggs, dipping the bunches into 
the mixture. Drain until nearly dry, then roll in white sugar. 
Lay upon white paper to dry. 

751. Impromptu Dessert. 

Cover the bottom of a large glass dish with sliced orange ; 
strew over it powdered sugar, then a thick layer of cocoanut. 
Alternate orange and cocoanut till the dish is full, heaping the 
cocoanut on the top. 

752. Dessert of Apples— Ingredients— l lb. of sugar, i lb. of finely 

flavored ripe sour apples, 1 pt. of rich cream, 2 eggs, yi, cup of 
sugar. 

Make a rich syrup of the sugar ; add the apples nicely pared 
and cored. Stew till soft, then mix smoothly with the syrup 
and pour all into a mould. Stir into the cream (or if there is 
none at hand, new milk must answer), the eggs well beaten, 
also the sugar, and let it just boil up in a farina kettle ; then 
set aside to cooL When cold take the apples from the mould 
and pour this cream custard around it and serve. If spice or 

2'3 



214 The Dominion Cook Book. 

flaToring is agreeable, nutmeg, vanilla, or rose water can be 
used. 

753. Bananas. 

Make with boiling water a quart of strong and sweet 
lemonade, using only the juice of the lemons. Soak half a box 
of gelatine one hour in a small cup of cold water ; stir it into the 
boiling lemonade and set it where it will cool, but not harden. 
Cut three bananas in lengthwise halves and lay them in a 
mould wet with cold water, cover them with half the jelly and 
set the mould upon the ice until the jelly sets. Then slice 
in three more bananas and pour in the remainder of the jelly. 
Serve with cream or soft custard. 

Make a syrup with a large cup of sugar and a scant pint of 
water. Let the syrup come to the boiling point and boil rapidly 
for ten minutes. Pour the hot syrup over as many red bananas, 
cut in thin slices, as it will cover. When the syrup is cold serve 
the bananas with whipped cream. Many fresh fruits are much 
more delicious sweetened with cooked syrup like this than with 
raw sugar. Oranges are especially nice cut up and served in 
this way. Flavor the syrup, if you wish, with a little grated 
orange peel. 

754. Apple Ginger — Ingredients — 2 lbs. white sugar, 2 lbs. hard 

apples, nearly i qt. water, I oz. of tincture of ginger. 

Make a rich syrup of the sugar and water, adding, as soon as 
it boils, the ginger. Pare, core and cut the apples into quarters 
or pieces to suit the fancy, plunging into cold water to preserve 
the color, then boil in the syrup until transparent. Great care 
must be taken that they do not break, as this would spoil the 
appearance. Place in jars and cover with the syrup, put into 
glass bottles and seal air-tight. It is then ready at any time 
for dessert. 

755. A Dish of Mixed Fruits. 

Select a handsome dish, put a table glass in the centre, cover 
with moss or leaves. Place a nice pineapple upon the top of 
the glass, and round it apples or pears with leaves between, 
then plums mingled with grapes. Much taste can be displayed 
in the arrangement of the fruit. 

756. Strawberries and Oream. 

Pick the fruit carefully (which should be ripe, but not too 



Dessert. 215 

much so), and put into a dessert dish, sprinkle two tablespoon- 
fuls of white sugar over, then pour over the cream, allowing one 
pint to every three pints of fruit. 

757. Dish of Figs — Ingredients — I cup of sugar, ^ of a cup of water, 

^ of a teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 

Let the sugar and water boil until it is a pale brown color ; 
shake the basin in which it is boiling gently, to prevent it burn- 
ing, but do not stir it at all until just before you take it from 
the fire, then stir in the cream of tartar. Wash and cut open 
some figs ; spread them on a platter, then pour the sugar over 
them. Take care to have each fig covered ; set them in a cool 
place till the sugar has time to harden. 

758. A Dish of Nuts. 

Arrange them piled high in the centre of a dish j a few leaves 
around the edge of the dish will greatly improve the appearance. 
In dishing filberts serve them with the outer skin on. If wal- 
nuts, wipe with a damp cloth before serving. 

759. A Dish of Strawberries. 

If there are any inferior ones they should be placed in the 
bottom of the dish and the others put in rows to form a pyra- 
mid, taking care to place the stalks downwards. A few fern 
leaves placed at the bottom of the dish before building the 
pyramid will add to the good appearance of the dish. 

N. B. — Secure the fruit with long stalks as they will sup- 
port tlie pyramid. 

760. Dish of French Plums. 

Arrange on a glass dish with highly colored sweet-meats, 
which make a good eflfect. 




[^ SWEET DISHES 

yg 

^lljiilllllliiieSWIiill^^ 

761. Souffle of Bread and Walnuts— Ingredients— 30 sound 
and quite fresh walnuts, 2 oz. of wliite bread crumbs, y lb. of 
butter, the same quantity of sugar, 6 eggs, and ^ a cupAil of sweet 
cream. 

Either pound or grate the walnuts with the fine skin which 
is on them ; soak the bread in milk, and squeeze it, beat the 
butter to cream, and add one after another the yolks of the 
eggs, then- the sugar, bread, cream, and nuts, beat all the 
ingredients well together, and stir in lightly the whites of the 
eggs whipt to a stiff froth. Put into a proper souffle form, 
jind bake it an hour, serve the moment it has properly risen. 

f62. Devonshire Junket— Ingredients— 2 qts. of new milk, 4 
dessertspoonfuls of sugar, 6 dessertspoonfuls of prepared rennet, 
clotted cream, a little nutmeg. 

Just allow the milk to become blood warm, and set in 
a deep dish, now add the sugar and rennet, stir well and put 
aside to set. When required for use, cover with the cream and 
a sprinkle of nutmeg. 

763. Orange Souffle — Ingredients — 6 oranges, sliced and peeled, 

sugar, custard, yolks of 3 eggs, a pt. of milk, sugar to taste, grating 
of orange peel for flavor, white of the eggs. 

Put into a glass dish a layer of oranges, then one of sugar, 
and so on until all the oranges are used, and let it stand two 
hours; make a soft boiled custard in the above proportions, 
and pour over the oranges, when cool enough not to break the 
dish. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, sweeten to 
taste and pour over the top. Serve cold. 

764. Apple Charlotte— Ingredients — Some good cooking apples, 

sugar (i lb. of apple pulp to J4 lb. of sugar), lemon flavoring, fried 
bread. 

Bake good cooking apples slowly until done ; scrape out all 
the pulp with a teaspoon, put it in a stewpan in the above pro- 
portion ; stir it until the sugar is dissolved and the pulp stiff. 

2l6 



Sweet Dishes. 217 



Take care it does not burn. Add a little lemon flavoring, and 
place the apple in the centre of a dish, arranging thickly and 
tastefully round it neatly cut pieces of the carefully fried 
bread. If it is desired to make this dish very nice, each 
piece of fried bread may be dipped in peach jam. Rhubarb 
Charlotte may be made in the same manner. The rhubarb 
must be boiled and stirred until a good deal of the watery 
portion has evaporated, and then sugar, half a pound to one 
pound of fruit, being added, it should be allowed to boil until 
it is thick. 

765. Charlotte RuSSe — Ingredients— >^ an oz. of isinglass, I pt. oi 

milk, sugar and vanilla to taste, i pt. of cream, Savoy biscuits, a 
few ratafias. 

Dissolve the isinglass in the milk ; whip the cream to a 
strong froth, and when the isinglass and milk have cooled and 
become a little thick, add it to them, pouring the cream with 
force into the bowl, whipping it all the time. Grease a mould 
(which must be scrupulously clean) and place Savoy biscuits 
in each flute; sprinkle a few ratafias at the top, and when 
nearly cold pour in the mixture. Serve with preserved 
peaches. 

766. Orange Fool — Ingredients — ^Juice of 3 Seville oranges, 2 well 

beaten eggs, ^ pt. of cream, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, white 
sugar to taste. 

Mix the orange juice with the eggs, cream and spices. 
Sweeten to taste. The orange juice must be carefully strained. 
Set the whole over a slow fire, and stir it until it becomes 
about the thickness of melted butter ; it must on no account 
be allowed to boil ; then pour into a dish for eating cold. 

767. Gooseberry Fool — Ingredients— i qt. of gooseberries, water, 

sugar, I qt. of cream, macaroons or ratafias. 

Pick one quart of quite young gooseberries, and put them 
into a jar with a very little water and plenty of sugar ; put the 
jar into a saucepan of boiling water till the fruit is quite tender, 
then beat it through a cullender, and add gradually one quart 
of cream with sufficient sugar to sweeten ; garnish the dish 
with macaroons or ratafias. 

768. Flummery (i) — Ingredients — i oz. bitter almonds, i oz. of sweet, 

a little rose water, I pt. jelly stock, sugar to taste, i pt. thick cream. 

Blanch, and then throw into cold water, the almonds ; take 



2i8 The Dominion Cook Book. 

them out and beat them in a marble mortar, with a little ro8$ 
water, to keep them from oiling, and put them into the jelly 
stock. Sweeten with white sugar ; when it boils strain it through 
a piece of muslin, and when a little cold put it into the cream, 
stirring often till thick and cold. Wet moulds in cold water, 
pour in the flummery and let them stand six hours before 
turned out ; if made stiff wet the moulds, and it will turn out 
without putting them into warm water, which destroys their 
brightness. 

769. Flummery (2)— Ingredients— 3 large handfuls of small white 

oatmeal, i large spoonful of white sugar, 2 large spoonfuls of orange 
flower water. 

Put three large handfuls of very small white oatmeal to steep 
a day and night in cold water ; then pour it off clear, and add 
as much more water, and let it stand the same time. Strain it 
through a fine hair-sieve, and boil it till it is as thick as hasty- 
pudding ; stirring it well all the time. When first strained, put 
to it the white sugar, and flower water. Pour it into shallow 
dishes ; and serve to eat with milk, or cream and sugar. It is 
very good. 

770. Rice Flummery — Ingredients — I pt. of milk a small piece of 

lemon peel and cinnamon, rice, flour, sugar to taste, a dessertspoon- 
ful of peach water or a bitter almond beaten. 

Put the lemon peel and cinnamon into the milk and bring to 
a boil, mix with a little cold milk as much rice-flour as 
will make the whole of a good consistence, sweeten, and add 
the flavoring, then boil it observing it does not burn ; pour in 
a shape or pint basin, removing the spice. When cold turn 
the flummery into a dish and serve with cream, milk, or custard 
round. 

771. Isinglass Blanc-Mange — Ingredients — I oz, of isinglass, 

I qt. of water, whites of 4 eggs, 2 spoonfuls of rice, water, sugar to 

taste, 2 oz. of sweet and I oz. of bitter almonds. 
Boil the isinglass in the water ffil it is reduced to a pint ; 
then add the whites of the eggs with the rice-water to prevent 
the eggs poaching, and sugar to taste ; run through the jelly- 
bag ; then add the almonds j give them a scald in the jelly, 
and pour them through a hair-sieve ; put it in a china bowl ; 
the next day turn it out, and stick it all over with almonds, 
blanched and cut lengthways. Garnish with green leaves or 
flowers. 



Sweet Dishes. 219 



772. Clear Blanc-Mange— Ingredients— l qt. of strong calf s foot 
jelly, whites of 4 eg^s, i oz. of bitter and i of sweet almonds, a 
spoonful of rose water, 3 spoonfuls of cream. 

Skim off the fat and strain the calf s foot jelly ; beat the 
whites of the eggs, and put them to the jelly ; set it over the 
fire, and keep stirring it till it boils ; then pour it into a jelly- 
bag, and run it through several times till it is clear ; beat the 
sweet and bitter almonds to a paste, with the rose water 
squeezed through a cloth ; then mix it with the jelly and the 
cream ; set it over the fire again, and keep stirring it till it is 
almost boiling ; then pour it into a bowl, and stir it very often 
till it is almost cold ; then wet the moulds and fill them. 

773. Rice Blanc-Mange— Ingredients— 6 oz. of the best rice, i pt. 

of water, %, pt. of milk or cream, 3 oz. of white sugar, vanilla 
flavoring, any kind of preserve. 

Put the rice into a pipkin with the water and let it sim- 
mer slowly in the oven for two or three hours. Then add the 
cream or milk, sugar and flavoring. Boil up over the fire, and 
pour into a mould. When quite cold serve with any kind of 
preserve. 

774. OornflOUl" Blanc-Mange— Ingredients — 4 or 5 tablespoon- 

fuls of cornflour, a little over a qt. of milk. 

Mix the corn to a stiff paste with a little of the milk. Put 
rest of the milk in a stewpan and set on the fire. Put the rind 
of a lemon in to infuse. Add sugar to taste, and when on the 
point of boiling, strain, and add to the corn flour ; return to the 
stewpan and boil ten minutes. Wet a mould and pour the 
blanc mange into it. Serve with jelly, or milk and sugar. 

775. Boiled Custard — Ingredients — I qt. of sweet milk, a stick of 

cinnamon, rind of 1 lemon, a few laurel leaves or bitter almonds, 
sugar to taste, yolks of 8 eggs, whites of 4. 

Boil the milk with the cinnamon, lemon rind, and laurel 
leaves or bitter almonds, and sugar. Beat the yolks of the eggs 
with the whites, add a little milk and strain into another dish. 
When the milk boils remove from the fire, and strain ; then 
add the egg to it. Return the whole to the saucepan and set 
on the fire, stirring diligently. Let it come to the boiling point, 
then pour into a jug and stir till nearly cold It should be as 
thick as rich cream. Pour into glass, grate a little nutmeg over 
them and serve. 



The Dominion Cook Book. 



776. Boiled Almond Custard— Ingredients— 4 bay leaves, i pt. 

of cream, a stick of cinnamon, i pt. of milk, I doz. bitter and 2 doz. 
sweet almonds, 4 whole eggs, 8 yolks of eggs, white sugar to taste. 

Put the bay leaves with the cinnamon, cream, and milk into 
a clean saucepan on a slow fire, till they boil. While this is 
.doing grate the sweet and bitter almonds into a basin, break in 
the whole eggs and the yolks one by one into a teacup, and as 
you find them good, put them into a basin ; mix in sufficient 
loaf sugar in powder to sweeten it to your palate, whisk all well 
together, and when the milk boils take it off the fire for a 
minute or two before you put it in; mix it well with the 
whisk, and strain it through a hair-sieve into the saucepan 
that the cream was boiled in. Put it again on the fire, which 
must be slow, and stir it well till it begins to thicken, (it must not 
boil, or you will spoil it) ; remove it from the fire, and keep 
stirring it well till it is cool, otherwise it may curdle. As soon 
as it is cold you can put it into the glasses or cups ; grate a 
little nutmeg on the top of each. 

777. Almond Custard— Ingredients— I pt. of new milk, i cup of 

pulverized sugar, % lb. of almonds blanched and pounded, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls rose water, the yolks of 4 eggs. 

Stir this over a slow fire until it is of the consistency of 
cream, then remove it quickly and put into a dish. Beat the 
whites with a little sugar added to the froth, and lay on top. 

778. Orange Custard — Ingredients — i Seville orange, 4 oz. white 

sugar, yolks of 4 eggs, I pt. of boiling cream, preserved orange. 

Boil the rind of half the orange very tender ; beat it in a 
marble mortar very fine; pu? to it the juice of the orange 
and the sugar with yolks of the eggs. Then pour in 
gradually the boiling cream. Continue beating until cold. 
Pour into custard cups and stand in a dish of hot water. Allow 
them to stand until they are set, then take them out and gar- 
nish with some preserved orange on the top and serve. 

779. Frozen Custard with Fruit— Ingredients— 2 pts. of milk, 

same of cream, 6 eggs, 3 teacups of sugar, I pt. of.berries, or peaches 
cut up small. 

Let the milk nearly boil ; beat the yolks of the eggs with 
the sugar and add the milk by degrees. Whip the whites of the 
eggs to a froth and add to the mixture ; put all in a saucepan. 
Stirring till it is a nice thick and smooth custard. When per- 



Sweet Dishes. 221 



fectly cold whisk in the cream and freeze. If the custard is 
allowed to freeze itself, stir in the fruit after the second beating. 

780. Custard — Ingredients — l}i qts. rich milk, i cup sugar, ^ box 

gelatine, 4 eggs, vanilla to taste. 

Dissolve the gelatine in the milk ; add the yolks and sugar ; 
let it come to a boil, then remove from the fire. When cool, 
add whites of eggs, etc. Pour into mould. To be eaten with 
cream, if preferred. 

781. Baked Custard — Ingredients — Some nice pastry, 4 eggs, 3 

gills of new milk, sugar to taste. 

Line a good sized dish with the pastry ; beat the eggs 
well, add slowly the new milk, sweeten to taste ; pour on to 
the paste ; bake in a moderate oven. Can be eaten hot or 
cold. 

782. Chocolate Custard— Ingredients— l qt. of milk, yolks of 6 

eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls of sugar, yi a cup of grated vanilla chocolate. 

Boil the ingredients until thick enough, stirring all the time. 
When nearly cold flavor with vanilla. Pour into cups, and 
put the whites of the eggs beaten with some powdered sugar 
on top. 

783. Chocolate Cream — Ingredients — Yolks of 6 eggs (strained), 2 

oz. of powdered white sugar, 2 oz. of grated chocolate, i pt. of milk, 
4 sheets of best French gelatine dissolved in a little milk, i pt. of 
well-whipped cream. 

Mix the yolks of eggs with the sugar and chocolate, add the 
milk ; set the mixture on the fire in a double saucepan, the 
outer one filled with hot water, and kept stirring till the cream 
thickens ; add the dissolved gelatine and strain it into a basin ; 
put this over ice, stirring till the mixture begins to set, then add 
the well-whipped cream. Put a mould in the ice, pour in the 
cream, cover it with ice, and when quite set, turn it out and 
serve. 

784. CofFee Cream — Ingredients — I breakfastcupful of made coffee, 

a little more than ^ pt. of boiled milk, 8 yolks of eggs, a pinch of 
salt, }i lb. sugar, 2 oz. of dissolved gelatine. 

Put the coffee into a stewpan with the milk; add the yolks, 
salt and sugar ; stir the cream briskly on the fire until it begins 
to thicken ; stir for a minute longer and then run it through a 
sieve into a basin, add the gelatine, mix and set the cream in^ 
mould embedded in rough ice. 



222 The Dominion Cook Book. 

785. Lemon Cream— Ingredients— 1 pt. of thick cream, yolks of 2 

eggs, 4 oz. of fine sugar, rind of one lemon cut thinly, juice of the 
lemon. 

Well beat the yolks and add to the cream, sugar and rind 
of the lemon ; boil, and then stir it till almost cold ; put the 
juice of the lemon into a dish and pour the cream upon it, stir- 
ring until quite cold. 

786. Lemon Cream Solid— Ingredients— >^ a pint of cream, the 

juice of 3 lemons and the rind of 2, % lb. of loaf sugar in small lumps. 

Rub the sugar on the lemons, and lay them at the bottom 
of the dish, pour the lemon juice over, make the cream a little 
warm, then, standing on a chair, and with the dish on the 
ground, pour the cream on so as to froth it. 

787. Almond Cream — Ingredients — 4 oz. swee. almonds, a few 

bitter almonds, a quart of cream, juice of 3 lemons ^sweetened), a 
little orange flower water. 

Blanch and pound the almonds in a mortar, moistening 
with a httle orange flower water. Add the cream and the 
sweetened juice of the lemons. Beat to a froth, which take off 
on the shallow part of a sieve ; fill glasses with some of the 
cream and some of the froth. 

788. Substitute fbr Cream. 

We have just met with the following in an Indian recipe 
book : " Beat the white of an egg to a froth, and mix well with 
it a very small lump of butter. Add it to a hot liquid gradu- 
ally, so that it may not curdle." 

789. Burnt Cream (l)— Ingredients— l pint of cream, i stick of cin- 

namon, a little lemon peel, the yolks of 4 eggs, sugar to taste. 

Boil the cream with a stick of cinnamon and lemon peel ; 
take it off the fire and pour it very slowly into the yolks of the 
eggs, stirring till half cold ; sweeten, and take out the spice, 
etc., pour it into the dish; when cold, stiew white pounded 
sugar over and brown it with a salamander 

790. Burnt Cream (2), 

Make a rich custard without sugar, boil lemon peel in it. 
When cold sift a good deal of sugar over the whole, and brown 
the top with a salamander. 

791. Parisienne Cream— Ingredients — i ounce of fine isinglass, I 

pt. of thin cream, 3 oz. of sugar broken into small lumps, ^ pt, of 
rich cream, 8 oz. of the finest apricot or peach jam. 



Sweet Dishes. 223 



Dissolve the isinglass in the thin cream, and strain it 
through folded muslin ; put it into a clean saucepan with the 
lump sugar, and when it boils add the rich cream ; add it by 
spoonfuls to the jam, which has been passed through 
the sieve when made. Mix the whole smoothly, and put it 
into a mould and stir till nearly cold, to prevent the jam sink- 
ing to the bottom. Put it on ice, and when set turn it out and 
serve- The strained juice of a lemon may be added when 
making the cream, and is a great improvement. 

792. Pineapple Cream — Ingredients — A tin of preserved pineapple, 
6 oz. of sugar, ^ pint of water, 7 sheets of best French gelatine 
dissolved in a little milk, i pt. of cream. 

Pound the pineapple in a mortar, add the sugar and water ; 
boil for fifteen minutes and press through a tammy. Dissolve 
the gelatine in a little milk ; whip the cream to a froth ; mix 
the gelatine with the pineapple pulp, then quickly work in the 
cream. Pour the mixture into a mould, and put oa ice to set. 
When wanted, dip the mould in hot water and turn out the 
cream. 

793- Strawberry Cream— Ingredients— i pot of good strawberry 
jam, 9 sheets of the best French gelatine, i qt. of cream. 

Take jam, and pass through a tammy, add the gelatine dis- 
solved in a little milk, then add the cream whipped to a froth, 
put into a mould and lay on ice to set. When wanted dip the 
mould in hot water and turn out the cream. 

794. Lemon Cream (madewithout cream)— Ingredients— 

4 lemons, 12 tablespoonfuls of water, 7 oz. of powdered white sugar, 
yolks of 9 eggs. 

Peel the lemons very thinly into the above proportion of 
water, then squeeze the juice into the sugar. Beat the yolks 
thoroughly and add the peel and juice together, beating for 
some time. Then strain into your saucepan, set over a gentle 
fire and stir one way till thick and scalding hot. Do not let it 
boil or it will curdle. Serve in jelly glasses. 

795. Ratafia Cream — Ingredients — 3 or 4 peach or nectarine leaves, 

I pt. of cream, yolks of 3 eggs, sugar to taste, a little ratafia. 

Boil the leaves in the cream with a little ratafia. Remove 
the leaves, beat the yolks of the eggs and strain, then add to 
the mixture. Sweeten to taste. Scald till thick, stirring all the 
time. Then pour into china dishes and when cold serve. 



I ICE CREK7VIS I 



796. Coffee Ice Cream— Ingredients— 5 oz. of coffee berries, a 

breakfast cup of milk, 2 of cream, a tablespoonfal of arrowroot, ^ 
lb. of sugar. 

Add the cream and milk together and boil, then pour into 
a can. While this has been going on, let the coffee berries be 
put on in a tin in the oven for five or six minutes ; then put 
them with the cream. Leave to cool and then strain through 
a sieve and add the remaining ingredients. Boil again (stirring 
all the time) until it thickens. Freeze in the usual way. 

797. Chocolate ice Cream— Ingredients— 6 tablespoonfuls of 

grated chocolate, 2 breakfast cups of cream, i of fresh milk, and }i 
lb. of sugar. 

Stir the chocolate into the milk, mixing well, add remaining 
ingredients and freeze. 

798. Ice Cream — Ingredients — i^ lbs. of any kind of preserved fruit, 

I qt. of cream, juice of two lemons, sugar to taste. 

Take the whole of the ingredients, and work through a sieve. 
Then freeze in a freezing can, and work until it is frozen. Then 
turn out and serve. 

799. Another Ice Cream— Ingredients— l qt. of milk, 2 eggs, ^ 

lb. of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of corn starch or arrowroot, I qt. of 
cream. 

Scald the milk, yolks of eggs, sugar and corn starch or 
arrowroot, until it of the consistency of custard. Then allow 
to cool. When cool add the cream whipped and the whites of 
the eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Sweeten to taste, flavor and 
freeze in the usual way. 

224 



Ice Creams. 225 



RECIPES FOR MAKING ICE CREAM 

Note. — When pure cream is used, half the number of 
quarts that the can will hold will be sufficient, as the beater will 
make it light and spongy so that it will nearly fill the can. In 
using milk the can may be three-fourths filled. 

800. Dissolve in two quarts of pure fresh cream, twelve to 
fourteen ounces of best white sugar, flavor as given below, strain 
into the freezing can and freeze according to above directions 

cioi. Making Ice Cream from Milk. — Bring two quarts rich 
milk to a boiling point, stir in two tablespoonfuls of arrowroot 
or corn starch, previously rubbed smooth in a cupful of cold 
milk. Remove from the fire and add four eggs and three quar- 
ters of a pound of sugar well beaten together, stir all well 
together and then set aside to cool. Flavor and freeze as 
before directed. 



FLAVORS 

802. Vanilla. — One tablespoonfulof good extract of Vanilla. 

803. Lemon. — About three teaspoonfuls each of extract of 
Lemon and Lemon juice. 

804. Bisque. — Add about two handfuls of powdered sifted 
dry sponge cake and a dessertspoonful of extract of Nectarine. 

805. Chocolate Ice Cream.— 'M.elt in a porcelain dish two 
ounces of Baker's chocolate, and about three ounces of water 
and four ounces of fine white sugar, dissolve and strain into the 
cream in freezing can, and proceed as directed above. 

806. Iruil Ice Cream. — To two quarts of cream add about 
one quart of juice of such fruits as cherry, currant, strawberry, 
peach, orange, etc., finely strained, and one and a half pounds 
of fine white sugar, and freeze as above. 

807. Fruit Ices. — Dissolve three pounds of fine white 
sugar in two quarts of water and one quart of finely strained 
juice of any of the above named fruits, and freeze the same as 
ice cream. It requires more time than the latter, and will not 
increase so much in bulk. For orange and strawberry ices add 
the juice of one large lemon. 

These recipes are kindly furnished us by the " American 
Machine Co.," Philadelphia. 
15 



OBSERVATIONS ON PRESERVING. 

Fruit for preserving must be gathered in dry weather, and 
should be carefully selected, discarding all bruised fruit, 
and purchasing only that of the largest and finest quality. Use 
only the best white sugar, or the preserve cannot be perfect, 
and nothing is saved. If common sugar is used, it causes a 
greater amount of scum, and of course this must be taken off, 
consequently evaporation reduces the quantity. In making 
syrups the sugar must be pounded and dissolved in the syrup 
before setting on the fire ; no syrups or jellies should be boiled 
too high. Fruits must not be put into a thick syrup at first. 
Fruits preserved whole or sliced may be boiled in a syrup made 
of two pounds of sugar to every one pound of water, the quan- 
tity of syrup differing in some cases, but the general rule is one 
and a half the substance of fruit. We have found the following 
very good : To clarify six pounds of sugar, put into a preserv- 
ing pnn, and pour to it five pints of cold spring water; in 
anotlier pint beat lightly up the white of one small egg, but do 
ii'it froth it very much ; add it to the sugar, and give it a stir to 
rr. ' :- it well with the whole. Set the pan over a gentle fire when 
:i.;: sugar is nearly dissolved, and let the scum rise without 
•i.i g distuibed) v/hen the syrup has boiled five minutes take 
i, ;.;!■>! the fire, let it stand a couple of minutes, and then skim 
i . , r ,■ c'e.in ; let it boil again, then throw in half a cup of co'd 
vv;i' r, v.liich will bring the remainder of the scum to the 
•;ii.f -c •; skim it until it is perfectly clear, strain it through a 
i;.iri ij'i.jAi, and it will be ready for use, or for further boiling. 

All unripe fruit must be rendered quite tender bygentle_ 
scalding, before it is put into syrup, or it will not imbibe the' 
sugar : and the syrup must be thin when it is first added to it, 
and oe thickened afterwards by frequent boiling, or with addi- 
tional sugar; or the fruit will shrivel instead of becoming plump 

zi6 



Preserves. 227 



and clear. A pound of sugar boiled for ten minutes in one pint 
of water will make a very light syrup ; but it will gradually 
thicken if rapidly boiled in an uncovered pan. Two pounds 
of sugar to the pint of water, will become thick with a little 
more than half an hour's boiling, or with three or four separate 
boilings of eight or ten minutes each ; if too much reduced it 
will candy instead of remaining liquid. 

In making jams many cooks after allowing the proper pro- 
portions of sugar to the fruit, put into the preserving pan 
without removing stones or skins until after boiling, as the 
flavor is thought to be finer by adopting this method. Glass 
bottles are preferable to any other as they allow inspection to 
detect incipient fermentation, which may be stayed byre-boiling. 
Copper or brass preserving pans are the best kind to use, but 
they require a great deal of care to keep clean ; the enamelled 
are very nice and easily kept in order. Jams should be kept 
in a dry, cool place, and if properly made will only require a 
small round of writing paper, oiled, and laid on to fit ; now tie 
down securely with a second paper brushed over with the white 
of egg to exclude the air. If you should have the least fear of 
the store closet being damp, it would be better for the first 
paper to be dipped in brandy. Inspect them every two or 
three months. 

808. Plum Jam — Ingredients — Allow % lb. of white sugar to i lb. of 

fruit. 
It is difficult to give the exact quantity of sugar to be used 
in plum jam, in fact it entirely depends upon the quality of the 
plums used, therefore your own judgment will be necessary. 
A'ter weighing the plums, halve them and remove the stones ; 
then place on a large dish and sprinkle with the sugar, leave 
them thus for twenty-four hours ; then put into a preserving 
pan and let them simmer gently on the back of the stove for 
about twenty-five or thirty minutes, then boil very quickly, for 
a quarter of an hour, skimming carefully, and stirring with a 
wooden spoon to prevent the jam sticking. It greatly improves 
the jam to put some kernels from the plum stones into it. 

809. Red Currant Jam— Ingredients— ^ of a lb. of white sugar 

to every pound of fruit. 
Let the fruit be very ripe, remove from the stalks with a sil- 
ver fork ; dissolve the sugar over the fire, then put in the cur- 



Z2S The Dominion Cook Book. 



rants and boil for half an hour, stirring and skimming all the 
time. Put into jars and cover air tight. 

8io. Bllack Currant Jam— Ingredients— l gill of water, i lb. of 
fruit to I lb. of su^ar. 

Purchase the fruit ripe and dry ; having stripped from the 
stalk which can be done nicely with a silver fork, place them 
and the water into your preserving, pan j boil for ten minutes, 
then add the sugar, and allow to boil three-quarters of an hour 
from the time it begirs to simmer ; keep it constantly stirred ; 
carefully remove the scum. When done pot in the usual man- 
ner. 

8il. Raspberry Jam— Ingredients— Allow I lb. of white sugar to I 
lb. of fruit, and 2 wine glasses of red currant juice. s 

Directly this fruit is purchased preserve it, if allowed to 
stand the jam and the flavor will not be so good ; place in pre- 
serving pan and allow to boil twenty minutes, stirring constantly; 
add the sugar and currant juice and boil for half an hour. Be 
particular to skim well as this will make the jam nice and clear. 
When done, place in pots and cover. 

812. Rhubarb Jam — Ingredients — Rhubarb, to a pound of pulp 

allow I lb. of sugar, i oz. sweet almonds blanched and chopped, and 

half a lemon cut into slices. 
Peel and cut up the rhubarb, boil till reduced to a pulp 
with a very little water, add the sugar, almonds and lemon, boil 
for three-quarters of an hour or an hour, remove the lemon 
peel and put it into pots. 

813. Green Grape Janri— Ingredients— To l lb. of grapes allow ^ 

lb. of sugar. 
Pick them carefully and reject any that are injured, wash 
them. Put the grapes into a preserving pan, then a layer of sugar, 
then a layer of grapes. Boil on a moderate fire, stirring it all 
the time to prevent its burning, and as the grape stones rise take 
them out with a spoon, so that by the time the fruit is suffi- 
ciently boiled— about one hour— the stones will all have been 
taken out. Put into jars and cover in the usual way. 

814. Blackberry Jam— Ingredients— To every lb. of picked fruit 

allow I lb. of loaf sugar and X lb. of apples peeled and cored^and 
cut quite small. 

Boil the fruit for ten minutes, add the sugar, boil, stir and 



Preserves. 229 



remove all scum, it will take from half to three-quarters of an 
hour. 

815. Strawberry Jam— Ingredients— To I lb. of fruit allow ^ lb, 
or I lb of sugar, to 4 lbs. of strawberries add I pt. af red currant juice. 

Put the currant juice and strawberries on to boil for thirty 
minutes, and stir carefully all the time. Then put in the sugar 
and boil up very quickly, for twenty or twenty-five minutes 
removing any scum that arises. ' Put into your jars, covering 
air tight. If a pound of sugar is used there will be more jelly. 

8i5. AppEs Jam— Ingredients — Allow to every lb. of pared and cored 
fruit ^ lb. of white sugar, the rind of I lemon and juice of half a 
lemon. 

Having peeled and cored the apples weigh them, and slice 
them very thin. Place in a stone jar and surround with boiling 
water, allow them to boil until tender ; when tender place in 
a preserving pan, add the sugar, grated lemon rind and juice. 
Boil slowly half an hour from the time it begins to simmer, 
remove the scum, put into jars and cover in the usual manner. 

817. Preserved Melons— Ingredients— Melon, salt and water, 

best white ginger to taste. To make syrup, I qt. of water to i lb. 
of white sugar, the rind of 3 lemons, another i lb. of sugar to each 
qt. of syrup. 

Take away the rind and seeds, and cut the melon about the 
size of pieces of ginger. Put them in strong salt and water 
and let them remain for ten days, when it must be poured ofiF, 
and fresh water put instead ; this must be changed twice daily 
for three or four days till all taste of salt is gone from the 
melon. Scrape the outside of the best white ginger (the 
quantity according to taste), put it into a thin syrup made of 
the above proportions of water and sugar, drain the fruit, and 
pour the syrup and ginger over it boiling hot. Repeat this for 
three days, then add another pound of sugar to each quart of 
syrup ; when boiled and skimmed add the rind of three lemons, 
cut lengthwise, to each quart, put in the melons, and simmer 
until clear. After the first day's simmering the ginger may be 
sliced to impart more flavor, but it must not be allowed to boil. 
The syrup, when done, must be rich and thick. It is better 
when kept a year. 

818. To Preserve Citron — Ingredicnts^Citron, sugar and water. 
Purchase fine c'trons, pare and slice one inch thick, cin 



230 The Dominion Cook Book. 

again into strips, remove the seeds, weigh and allow one pound 
of sugar to one pound of fruit. Make a syrup, say three 
pounds of sugar, three gills of water ; when boiling add the fruit 
and boil three-quarters of an hour, test if done by piercing with 
a broom straw, and a few minutes before reinoving trom the fire 
slice and seed a lemon, and with one root of ginger put into 
preserving pan, pot and cover air tight. 

819. Preserved Pumpkins — Ingredients — Equal propo.-lions oi 
sugar and pumpkin, I gill of lemon juice. 

Cut the pumpkin in two, peel and remove the seed, cut in 
pieces about the size of a fifty-cent piece, after weighing place 
in a deep vessel in layers, first sprinkling a layer of sugar then 
of pumpkin and so on, until it is finished ; now add the lemon 
juice and set aside for three days ; now for every three pounds 
of sugar add three gills of water, and boil until tender. Pour 
into a pan, setting aside for six days, pour off the syrup and 
boil until thick, skim and add the pumpkin while boiling ; 
bottle in the usual manner. 

820. Quinces Preserved WhoJe— Ingredients — Some ripe 
quinces, to every pint of water allow 3 lbs. of white sugar. 
Pare the quinces and put them into the preserving pan, 
three-parts covered with cold water (if they should float while 
the water is being poured on t;hem, press them down with a 
plate until you have gauged the exact height of the water) ; 
take out the quinces, measure the water and add the sugar. 
Let this boil rapidly in the preserving pan for five minutes, and 
then put in the quinces. The syrup should not cover them at 
first, but when they are half-cooked it will then amply cover the 
fruit. Boil the quinces rapidly, until soft enough for a knitting- 
needle to pierce them easily, which should be in an hour and a 
half, reckoning from the first boiling up. Take the quinces 
out carefully, so as not to break them and lay them on dishes 
to cool. Run the syrup through a jelly bag or a piece of new 
flannel, put in a gravy strainer : this frees it of all odd little bits 
that may boil from the outside of the quinces, and makes it 
clearRr, Put the syrup back in the preserving-pan, and boil it 
rapidly until it will jelly when dropped on a plate ; put the 
quinces into the boiling syrup, and let them simmer gently for 
ten minutes. Place each quince carefully in wide-necked jars, 
pour the hot syrup over them, and when cold cover in the 
usual way. 



Preserves. 231 

821. Preserved Oranges— Ingredients— Any nuh.ber of oranges, 

with rather more than their weight in sugar, allow rather more than 
half a pint of water to each pound of sugar. 

Slightly grate and score the oranges round and round with 
a knife, but not very deeply. Put them into cold water for 
three days, changing the water twice each day. Tie them uf 
in a cloth and boil them until they are quite soft, that is, soft 
enough to be penetrated by the head of a pin. While they ar'- 
boiling place the sugar on the fire with the water, let it boil for 
a few minutes, then strain it through muslin. Put the oranges 
into the syrup and boil till it jellies and is of a yellow color. 
Try the syrup by putting some to cool, it should not be too 
stiff. The syrup need not cover the oranges completely, but 
they must be turned so that each part gets thoroughly done. 
Place the oranges in pots, cover with syrup, and tie down with 
brandied papers. This an excellent way of preserving oranges 
or shaddocks whole. Only they should be looked at now and 
then, and boiled up again in fresh syrup, if what they are in 
has become too hard, which, however, if they have been pro- 
perly done, will not be the case. They form a nice dish for 
dessert or for serving, filled with whipped cream or custard, 
either cold or gently warmed through in the syrup in a stewpan. 

822. Quince Marmalade — Ingredients — Quinces, to every lb. of 

pulp allow 2 lbs. of sugar. 

JRub off all the down from the quinces and cut off the tops 
and stalks. Put the quinces in a preserving pan with plenty of 
water and boil till they are soft ; then remove them from the 
fire, and pass the sxtlp through a hair sieve and beat it till it is 
soft and white ; piit the sugar on the fire with water, and let it 
boil till it is thick, and will fall from the spoon in flakes, com- 
monly called feather point. Take the pan off the fire and mix 
in the pulp ; it is best to put a little of the sugar to the pulp, 
and keep on adding by degrees till it is tolerably thin, wjien it 
will mix more readily with the larger quantity ot sugar : when 
all is well mixed, return the pan to the fire and let the mixture 
get thoroughly warm, but do not allow it to boil, and stir all 
the time or it will get burnt. Put the jam into jars and allow 
them to stand in the sun for two or three days, when there 
ought to be a thick crust on the top. 

823. Orange Marmalade — Ingredients— Twelve fair-sized Seville 

oranges, some spring water, juice of 3 or 4 oranges, to every lb. of 
peel and juice allow l}i lbs. of white sugar, allow to this amount of 
sugar, l^ pts. of water. 



232 - The Dominion Cook Book. 

Take the oranges with smooth, highly-colored skins, score 
the peel off in quarters, taking with it as much of the white 
skin as you can without breaking the pulp ; as you remove the 
peel put it into a basin of spring water ; put it all, when ready, 
into a stewpan, with enough spring water to cover the peel ; 
change the water several times during the boiling process, and 
when the peel is quite soft and very tender, take it out of the 
pan and drain it on a hair sieve. Spread out the peel, when 
nearly dry, on a pasteboard, and cut it into fine shreds; squeeze 
the oranges and add the juice of the lemons ; then add the 
sugar, allow to this amount of sugar the above proportion of 
water obtained by washing and straining the pulp of the 
oranges. Boil and skim carefully fifteen or twenty minutes, 
then add the washed pulp and juice, and boil for twenty or thirty 
minutes, or until it jellies properly. 

824. Preserved Crab Apple— Ingredients— Apples, water. 
Purchase fine red Siberian crab apples, pick out those with 

the stems on, place in preserving pan just covering them with 
warm water, now simmer until the skin breaks, drain and with 
a small knife remove the cores. Allow a glass of water and 
one and a half pounds of sugar to each pound of fruit. Boil 
water and sugar until no scum appears, put in apples, cover and 
simmer until tender ; now take up the fruit, spread on dishes 
to cool. The syrup may be flavored with lemon. About three- 
quarters fill your jars with apples and then pour over syrup, 
allow to cool and then cover. 

825. 'Apple Marmalade — Ingredients — Some good cooking apples, 
' ^ lb. of fruit, Yz teacupful of water to 6 lbs. of sugar, a few cloves, 

cinnamon or lemon peel for flavor. 

Peel, core and thinly slice the apples (apples that cook to 
a smooth pulp easily) ; put the sugar in a preserving pan (a tin 
or iron saucepan will turn them black), with the water ; let it 
gradually melt and boil it for ten minutes ; then put in the 
sliced apple and a few cloves, cinnamon or lemon peel to flavor 
if liked. Boil rapidly for an hour, skim well and put in jam 
pots ; it should be quite a smooth pulp, clear and a bright 
amber color. Will keep good for twelve months. 

326. Sweet Tomato Pickle— Ingredients— 3^ lbs. of tomatoes, 
Ij^ lbs. of sugar, YzOZ, each of cinnamon maco and cloves mixed, I 

pt. of vinegar. 



Preserves. 233 



Peel and slice the tomatoes, sticking into them the cloves ; 
put altogether into a stewpan and stew an hour. When done 
pack in glass jars and pour the syrup over boiling hot. 

827. Sweet Peach PBckle— Ingredients— To 4 lbs. of peaches 

allow 2 lbs. white sugar, ^ oz. each of mace, cinnamon and cloves 
mixed, and i pt. of the best white vinegar. 

Pour scalding water over the peaches and remove the skins 
with a butter knife, drop into cold water, stick four cloves in 
each peach. Lay the peaches in preserving pan with the 
sugar sprinkled over them, bring gradually to the boil, add 
vinegar and spice, boil five or six minutes. Remove the peaches 
and place in bottles. Boil the syrup thick and pour over 
boiling hot. 

828. To Keep Chestnuts (for wrinter use). 

Dry them after removing them from their green husks ; 
put in a box or barrel mixed with, and covered over by, fine 
and dry sand. Three gallons of sand to one gallon of chest- 
nuts. If there be maggots in any of the, nuts they will come 
cut and work up through the sand to get the air, and thus 
you have the chestnuts sweet, sound and fresh. 

829. To Keep Walnuts Fresh. 

Put a dessertspoonfiil of salt into one quart of water. Put 
the nuts in and let them stand a day and a night, then with a 
clean cloth rub dry and store. 



^M CANNED FRUITS, Etc. 




CANNING FRUIT. 
830. Peaches (to can). 

First prepare the syrup. For canned fruits, one quart of 
granulated sugar to two quarts of water is the proper propor- 
tion ; to be increased or lessened according to the quantity of 
, fruit to be canned, but always twice as much water as sugar. 
Use a porcelain kettle, and, if possible, take care that it is kept 
solely for canning and preserving — nothing else. Have another 
porcelain kettle by the side of the first, for boiling water (about 
three quarts). Put the peaches, a few at a time, into a idrire 
basket, such as is used to cook asparagus, etc. See that it is 
perfectly clean and free from rust. Dip them, when in the bas- 
ket, into a pail of boiling water for a moment and transfer 
immediately into a pail of cold water. The skin will then at 
once peel off easily, if not allowed to hardeiT by waiting. This, 
besides being a neat and expeditious way of peeling peaches, 
also saves the best part of the fruit, which is so badly wasted 
in the usual mode of .paring fruit. As soon as peeled, halve 
and drop the peaches into boiling water, and let them simmer 
— not boil hard —till a silver fork can be passed through them 
easily. Then lift each half out separately with a wire spoon 
and fill the can made ready for use, pour in all the boiling 
syrup which the jar will hold, leave it a moment for the fruit 
to shrink while filling the next jar, then add as much more 
boiling syrup as the jar will hold, and cover and screw down 
tightly immediately. Continue in this way, preparing and seal- 
ing only one jar at a time, until all is done. If any syrup is 
left over, add to it the water in which the peaches were sim- 
mered, and a little more sugar, boil it down till it " ropes " 
from the spoon and you have a nice jelly, or, by adding some 
peaches or other fruit, a good dish of marmalade. Peaches or 
othef fruit, good, but not quite nice enough for canning, can be 

234 



Canned Fruits, Etc. 235 

used Up in this way very economically. Peaches to be peeled 
as directed above should not be too green or too ripe, else, in 
the first place, the skin cannot be peeled off, or if too ripe, the 
fruit will fall to pieces. 

331. (Another way). 

After peeling and halving as above directed, lay a clean towel 
or cloth in the bottom of a steamer over a kettle of boiling 
water and put the fruit on it, half filling the steamer. Cover 
tightly and let it steam while making the syrup. When that is 
ready, and the fruit steamed till a silver fork will pass through 
easily, dip each piece gently into the boiling syrup, then as gently 
place in the hot jar, and so continue till all have been thus 
scalded and put in the jar. Then fill full with syrup, cover and 
seal immmediately. While filling, be sure and keep the jars 
hot. 

832. (Another way). 

Peel, halve, remove the stones, and prepare the syrup as 
directed, and when it is boiling drop in enough fruit for one 
jar, watch closely, and the instant they are sufficiently tender, 
take out each half with care and put into a hot jar till full. 
Ttien dip in all the boiling syrup it will hold. Cover tightly, 
set aside, and prepare for the next jar. Be sure and skim the 
syrup each time before adding more fruit. After jars are filled 
and the covers screwed on, before setting them away, every 
lifde while give the screw another twist until it cannot be 
moved farther. 

833. Pears. 

The skin will not peel ofi" so easily as the peach by dipping 
them in boiling water, but it will loosen or soften enough to be 
taken off with less waste of the fruit than if 'pared without 
scalding. Prepare the syrup and proceed as for peaches. They 
will require longer cooking, but as soon as a silver or well- 
plated fork will pass through easily, they are done. Longer 
cooking destroys the flavor. 

834. Pineapples. 

Pare very carefufly with a silver or plated knife, as steel 
injures" all fruit. With the sharp point of the knife dig out as 
near and with as little waste as possible, all the " eyes " and 
black specks, then cut out each of the sections iu which the 



236 The Dominion Cook Book. 

" eyes " were, in solid pieces clear down to the core. By doing 
this all the real fruit is saved, leaving the core a hard, round 
woody substance, but it contains considerable juice. Take 
tliis core and wring it with the hands as one wrings a cloth, til! 
all the juice is extracted, then throw it away. Put the juice 
thus saved into the syrup, let it boil up for five minutes, skim 
till clear, then add the fruit. Boil as short a time as possible, 
and have the flesh tender. The pineapple loses flavor by over- 
cooking more readily than any other fruit. Fill into well- 
heated jars, add all the syrup the jar will hold, cover and screw 
down as soon as possible. 

835. Plums. 

Plums should be wiped with a soft cloth or dusted, never 
washed. Have the syrup all ready, prick each plum with a 
silver fork to prevent the skin from bursting, and put them into 
the syrup. Boil from eight to ten minutes, judging by the size 
of the fruit. Dip carefully into the hot jars, fill full", and screw 
on the cover immediately. Cherries may be put up in the 
same way. — Beecher. 



836. Pears (canned)— Ingredients— Bartlett pears, I qt. of fruit, I 

pt. of water, % lb. of white sugar. 

Make the syrup and set on the stove to boil, peel the pears 
and plunge into cold water as soon as pared, when the syrup 
boils put the pears in, and boil until you can pierce them 
easily with a piece of broom straw, dip the cans in hot water, 
put in the fruit, pour boiling syrup over and seal. 

837. Plums (canned) — Ingredients — Syrup, 2 wineglasses of water 

and X It'- °f sugar to each 3 qts. of fruit. 

When the sugar is melted and the water luke-warm put the 
plums in. Let it come slowly to the boil. Let them boil gently 
for five minutes.' Put the plums into bottles, fill them with the 
boiling syrup (take care that there is as much syrup in the bot- 
tles as they will hold). Screw up immediately and set in a dark 
dry place. 

838. Strawberries (canned)— Ingredients— Allow to each i lb. 

of fruit ^ lb. of sugar. 

Put berries and sugar into a large flat dish and allow te 
Ftand about four hours, then draw off the juice and put intc 
preserving pan and allow to come to a boil, removing the scum 



Canned Fruits, Etc. 237 

as it rises, then put in the berries and let them come to a boil. 
Put into warm bottles and seal quickly. 

839. Cherries (canned)— Ingredients— To every i lb. of fruit yi. lb- 

of sugar, 3 gills of water. 

Put the sugar and water on the fire to heat, and as soon as 
it comes to a boil put in the cherries and only allow them to 
scald for a quarter of an hour, put into bottles boiling hot and 
seal. A few of the kernels put in to scald with the fruit im- 
parts a fine flavor. Note — Be sure to skim well. 

840. To Bottie Fruit— Ingredients — Any fresh fruit, large-mouthed 

bottles, new corks. 

Secure the fruit not very ripe and picked on a fine day ; 
have the bottles clean and dry, put in the fruit, cover with 
pieces of bladder tied securely, stand them in a boiler with cold 
water to the necks, put the boiler on the fire and allow to boil ; 
as soon as the bladders begin to swell, pierce them with a large 
pin. Now let the fire out and allow the bottles to stand until 
cold. The following day remove the bladders and fill up the 
bottles with sugar. Be careful to have the corks close at hand, 
and just before corking hold a couple of lighted matches in the 
mouth of the bottle, and before the gas has had time to escape, 
cork and cover with resin. 

841. Green Gooseberries (to bottie). 

Top and tail the gooseberries, and then fill wide-mouthed 
bottles, shaking them down till no more can be put in ; then 
tie down with damp (not wet) bladder, and place the bottles, 
surrounded by hay, in a boiler of cold water, over a slow fire ; 
let them simmer till reduced about one-third, then take the 
boiler off the fire and let the bottles remain in it till quite cold. 

842. Stone Fruits (to bottle). 

For this purpose wide-necked glass bottles must be used. 
Fill them with the fruit, as closely packed as possible, and into 
the mouth of each put quarter pound of finely powdered white 
sugar. Tie a piece of wet bladder, tightly stretched, over each 
mouth, to exclude the air, place them in a large fish kettle, 
packing them with hay, which should surround each bottle, and 
line the sides of the kettle, to prevent their either touching it or 
each other ; this will prevent their breaking ; fill the kettle 
with water, which must not come quite up to the bladder cov- 



238 The Dominion Cook Book. 

erings ; place it on the fire, or if a very hot one, to the side 
will be better, letting it simmer until you see that the fruit is 
cooked, by which time it will have considerably sunk in the 
bottles ; the kettle must then be removed from the fire, but the 
bottles must not be taken from it until the water is perfectly 
cold. During the time the kettle is on the fire, the bladders 
will require frequent moistening with a little water to prevent 
them from bursting ; should this happen, at once tie on a fresh 
piece of wet bladder. The bottles must be wiped dry after 
removing from the water, and should be kept in a dry, cool 
place. The bladders must never be taken off till the fruit is 
required for use, as it will not keep after the bottle has been 
once opened. 

843. Syrup (I). 

Take of sugar ten pounds, water three pints. Dissolve the 
sugar in the water with a gentle heat. 

844. Syrup (2). 

In making syrups, for which neither the weight of the sugar 
nor the mode of dissolving it is specified, the following rule is 
to be observed : Take of refined sugar, reduced to a fine pow- 
der, twenty-nine ounces ; the liquor prescribed one pint. Add 
the sugar by degrees, and digest with a moderate heat, in a 
close vessel, until it is dissolved, frequently stirring it, set the 
solution aside for twenty-four hours, take off the scum, and 
pour oflf the syrup from the feces, if there be any. 



-:^'^>^|j E L- L- 1 E S 1 V?:5^^^ 

OBSERVATIONS ON JELLIES. 

845. Fruit Jellies. 

The fruit should be placed in a jar, and the jar set in a 
stewpan of warm water, covered and allowed to boil until the 
fruit is broken ; take a strong jelly bag and press a little of the 
fruit at a time, turning out each time the skins ; allow two 
pounds of sugar to one quart of juice, set on the stove to boil 
again. Many good cooks heat the sugar by placing in the 
oven and stirring now and then to prevent burning. When the 
juice begins to boil (watch that it does not boil over twenty-five 
minutes), then add the heated sugar, stir well and just bring to 
a boil, remove directly from the stove, dip the vessels to con- 
tain it in hot water, and set them upon a dish cloth wrung out 
of warm water, pouring the boiling liquid into them, cover in 
the usual manner. 

846. Pineapple Jelly — Ingredients — A moderate-sized pineapple, 

I qt. of jelly. 

Peel the pineapple, halve lengthwise and cut into thin 
slices, infuse into the jelly the rind of the pineapple (well 
washed) and put first a layer of jelly, and when nearly set lay a 
border of pineapple over one upon another forming a ring, and 
cover with jelly, and so on till all are used. 

847 Crab Apple Jelly— Ingredients— Some nice crab apples (Sibe- 
rian are the best for this purpose), i lb. of sugar to each pt. of juice. 

Cut the apples to pieces, neither paring nor seeding them, 
as the seeds give a very pleasant flavor to the jelly, put into a 
stone vessel and place in a pot of hot water, allow to boil eight 
or nine hours, cover the vessel (with the fruit in), tightly and 
leave all night ; next morning squeeze out the juice, add the 
sugar hot in the above proportions, stirring rapidly all the time, 
allow it just to come to the boil and remove directly from the 
stove. Dip your jars in hot water and fill with the scalding 
jelly. 

■'■?,) 



240 The Dominion Cook Book. 

848. Quincs Jelly — Ingredients — Some ripe quinces, allowing i pt, 
of water to each lb. of fruit, ^ lb. of sugar to each lb. of juice. 

Prepare the quinces and put them in water in the above 
proportions ; simmer gently till the juice becomes colored, but 
only very pale ; strain the juice through a jelly bag, but do not 
press the fruit, allow it to drain itself. Put the strained juice 
in a preserving pan and boil twenty minutes, then stir in the 
sugar in the above proportions and stir over the fire for twenty 
minutes, taking off the sdurn, and pour into glasses to set. It 
should be rich in flavor, but pale and beautifully transparent. 
Long boiling injures the color. ,';. 

S49. Raspberry Jelly — Ingredients— Some ripe, carefully picked 
raspberries, allow ^ lb. of pounded sugar to every pound of fruit. 

Boil the raspberries for ten minutes, strain and weigh the 
juice and add the sugar in the above proportions and boil for 
fifteen or twenty minutes. Skim and stir well.,,. ,.,^ 

850. Red Currant Jelly— Ingredients — Red currants, ^ lb. of 

sugar to I lb of juice. 
Pick the fruit and simmer it in water for about an hour, 
or until the juice flows freely ; strain, boil up the juice, add the 
sugar, and boil again, skimming and stirring well for fifteen 
minutes. Put into small pots, and when cold and firm cover 
it! 

851. Black Currant Jelly- 
Make in the same way, but use a larger proportion of sugar. 

852. White Currant Jelly— Ingredients— Fruit, sugar. 

Pick the fruit carefully, weigh it, and put into the preserving 
pan equal quantities of fruit and sflgar. Boil quickly for ten 
minutes, and strain the juice into the pots ; when cold and stiff 
cpver them. 

S53. Blackberry Jelly. 

Make it as directed for red currant, but use only ten ounces 
of sugar to each pound of juice. The addition of a little lemon 
juice is an improvement. 

854. Green Gooseberry Jelly — Ingredients— Some carefully 
picked gooseberries (allowing to each lb. of fruit ^ pt. of water), 
to every lb. of juice allow I lb. of white sifted sugar. 
Boil the fruit in the water, reduce them to a pulp— it will 

take half an hour— strain through a jellv-bag, weigh the sugar 



Jellies. 241 

in the above proportions ; boil up the juice quickly and add 
the sugar, boil till reduced to a jelly (about twenty minutes), 
skim and stir well ; pour into pots. 

855. Red Gooseberry Jelly. 

Make it in the same way as the green, but three-quarters 
pound of sugar will be sufficient for each pound of juice. In 
straining the juice be careful not to press the fruit. The surplus 
fruit, with the addition of some currant juice, can be made into 
common jam for children, etc. 

856. Mixed Fruit Jelly — Ingredients — Fruit, strawberries, currants, 

cherries, etc., % lb. of sugar to each lb. of juice. 

Take ripe fruit, strip oif the stalks and remove the stones 
from the cherries, boil altogether for half an hour, strain the 
juice. Boil up the juice, add the sugar in the above proportions, 
stirring well till quite dissolved, boil again for fifteen or twenty 
minutes till it jellies, stirring frequently, and carefully removing 
all scum as^t rises. 

857. Quince Jelly — Ingredients — Some ripe quinces, to every lb. of 

quince allow I lb. of crushed sugar. 

Peel, cut up, and core some fine ripe quinces. Put them 
in sufficient cold water to cover them, and stew gently till soft, 
but not red. Strain the juice without pressure, boil the juice 
for twenty minutes, add the sugar and boil again till it jeUies — 
about a quarter of an hour — stir and skim well all the time. 
Strain it again through a napkin, or twice folded muslin, pour 
into pots or moulds, and when cold cover it. The remainder 
of the fruit can be made into marmalade with three-quarters 
pound of sugar, and quarter pound of juicy apples to every 
pound of quinces, or it can be made into compotes or tarts. 

858. Apple Jelly — Ingredients — Some sound apples, allow ^ lb. of 

sugar to each lb. of iuice. 

Peel, core, and quarter some sound apples, and throw them 
into cold water as they are done ; boil them till tender, then 
strain the juice from them through a fine sieve, and afterwards 
through a jelly bag — if necessary pass it through twice, as the 
juice should be quite clear, boil up the juice, add the sugar, 
stir till melted and boil for another ten minutes, add the strain- 
ed juice of a lemon to every one and a half pound juice just 
before it is finished. 



242 The Dominion Cook Book. 

859. Peach Jelly. 

Pare, stone and slice the peaches, crack some of the stones 
and remove the kernels, put the peaches and kernels into a 
jar and stand the jar in a pot of boiling water, stir frequently, 
pressing the fruit against the sides of the jar ; when it is well 
broken strain, and allow the juice of a lemon to every pint of 
juice, mix and allow one pound of sugar to one pint of juice, 
put the juice on to simmer half an hour then add the sugar hot ; 
allow it just to come to a boil, and remove from the fire ; allow 
to get cold ; cover with paper soaked in brandy, then with 
paper brushed over with the white of egg. 

860. Orange Jelly— Ingredients— Rind of 2 Seville, and 2 sweet 

oranges, and 2 lemons, juice of three of each, % lb. of lump sugar, 
^ pt. of water, I qt. of jelly, 2 oz. of isinglass. 

Grate the rind of the fruit, squeeze the juice, and strain it 
Take the sugar and water and boil it with the juice till it^ 
most candies. Have ready the jelly, add the syrup to it and 
boil it up at once, strain the jelly and let it stand some little 
time to settle before it is poured into the mould. 

861. Currant Vinegar— Ingredients — 2 qts. black currants, I pt. 

of the best vinegar, 1% lbs. white sugar. 

Well bruise the currants and place into a basin with the 
vinegar. Let it stand three or four days and then strain into 
an earthen jar, add the sugar ; set the jar in a saucepan of cold 
water and boil for an hour. When cold bottle. It is the better 
for keeping. 

862. Raspberry Vinegar— Ingredients— To 4 qts. of red rasp- 

berries put enough vinegar to cover, i lb. of sugar to every pt. of 

juice. 

Let the raspberries and vinegar stand for twenty-four hours, 
scald and strain it ; add sugar, boil twenty minutes, skim well, 
and when cold bottle. 






TO MAKE BUTTER 



^^M'^JB.-XMAM.m.MJ^^M -rK^MS-rSX^ 




Great attention and cleanliness are required in the manage- 
ment of milk. A cool and shaded cellar is a good place to 
keep it. 

Strain into shallow pans and allow to stand twelve hours, 
skim and let it stand another twelve hours for the second rising, 
skim again and place the cream in the crock used for the pur- 
pose. Churn as soon as the cream thickens. 

The temperature of the cream should be 6o°F. We have 
used the Daisy churn and have found very little trouble in the 
process. 

The motion must be regular, and as a rule the butter will 
appear in fifteen minutes. Take up with the butter skimmer 
and plunge in cold water. 

Now draw off butter-milk from the churn and half fill with 
very cold water, put the butter in, close securely and give several 
motions to wash it. Take it up and with the butter shovel 
press every drop of water from it. Set it by a few hours in a 
cool place and then work it again. If no more water can be 
extracted proceed to salt (using only the finest salt), and by 
degrees add about a dessertspoonful to a pound. Mould into 
rolls or pats. 
863. Preserving Butter. 

Two pounds of common salt, one pound of loaf sugar, and 
one pound of saltpetre. Beat the whole well together, then, 
to fourteen pounds of butter, put one pound of this mixture, 
work it well, and when cold and firm put it into glazed 
earthen vessels that will hold fourteen pounds each. Butter 
thus preserved becomes better by being kept, but it must be 
kept from the air, and securely covered down. If intended for 
winter use, add another ounce of the mixture to every pound 
of butter, and on the top of the pans lay enough salt to cover 
them with brine. 

243 



244 The Dominion Cook Book. 

S64. Clouted Cream. 

In order to obtain this, the milk is suffered to stand in 
a vessel for twenty-four hours. It is then placed over a stove, 
or slow fire, and very gradually heated, to an almost simmer- 
ing state, below the boiling point. When this is accom- 
plished, (the first bubble having appeared), the milk is removed 
from the fire, and allowed to stand for twenty-four hours 
more. At the end of this time, the cream will have arisen 
to the surface in a thick or clouted state, and is removed. 
In this state it is eaten as a luxury ; but it is often converted 
into butter, which is done by stirring it briskly with the hand 
or a stick. The butter thus made, although more in quantity, 
is not equal in quality to that procured from the cream which 
has risen slowly and spontaneously ; and in the largest and 
best dairies, the cream is never clouted, except when intended 
for the table in that state. 

865. Rennet (to prepare). 

Take out the stomach of a calf just killed, and scour it well 
with salt and water, both inside and out ; let it drain and then 
sew it up with two large handfuls of salt in it, or keep it in the 
salt wet, and soak a piece in fresh water as it is required. 

866. Buttermilk. 

If made of sweet cream, is a delicious and most wholesome 
food. Those who can relish sour buttermilk, find it still more 
light and it is reckoned more beneficial in consumptive cases. 
Buttermilk, if not very sour, is also as good as cream to eat 
with fruit, if sweetened with white sugar, and mixed with a 
very little milk. It likewise does equally for cakes and rice- 
puddings, and, of course, it is economical to churn before the 
cream is too stale for anything but to feed pigs. 

85;. Cream (to Manage for Whey-Butter). 

Set the whey one dayand night, skim it, and so till you have 
enough ; then boil it and pour it into a pan or two of cold 
water. As the cream rises, skim it till no more comes ; then 
churn it. Where new-milk cheese is made daily, whey-butter 
for common and present use may be made to advantage. 

868. Maitre D'Hotel Butter— Ingredients— 2 oz. of fresh butter, 
juice of I lemon, white sugar and salt to taste, parsley blanched, 
freed from moisture and finely minced. 
Put the butter in a basin with the other ingredients, incor- 



To Make Butter. 245 

porate the whole effectually and quickly, and put it by in a 
cool place till wanted. 

869. Water Cress Butter— Ingredients— ^ lb. of nice fresh butter, 

a bunch of watercress. 

Mince the watercress finely, and mix well in with the butter. 
Roll into little shapes with the butter pats. 

870. Butter (to serve as a little dish). 

Roll butter in different forms either like a pine, and make 
the marks with a teaspoon, or roll it in crimping rollers, work 
it through a cullender, or scoop with a teaspoon, and mix with 
grated beef, tongue, or anchovies. Make a wreath of curled 
parsley to garnish. 

S71. Curled Butter. 

Procure a strong cloth, and secure it by two of its corners to 
a nail or hook in the wall ; knot the remaining two corners, 
leaving a small space. Then place your butter into the cloth ; 
twist firmly over your serving dish and the butter will force its 
way between the knots in little curls or strings. Garnish with 
parsley and send to table. 

872. Daisy Butter — Ingredients — 2 tablespoonfuls of white sugar, 

the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls of orange flower 
water, % lb. of fresh butter. 

Pound the yolks with the orange flower water (in a mortar) 
to a smooth paste, then mix in the sugar and butter. Now 
place in a clean cloth, and force the mixture through by wring- 
ing. The butter will fall upon the dish in pieces according to 
the size of the holes in the cloth. 

873. A Pretty Dish of Butter. 

With a pair of butter pats, form some butter into balls the 
size of marbles. Set in a pretty dish, with a piece of ice, and 
sprigs of parsley strewn over. 

874. Cream Cheese —Ingredients — i pt. of rich raw cream, a dessert- 

spoonful of salt. 

Put the salt into the cream ; fold a napkin double on the 
shallow end of a hair sieve — a sieve of about six inches in 
diameter. Pour the cream into the hollow lined with the napkin. 
In eight or ten hours ths cheese will be fit to turn. Take a fresh 
napkin, doubled, place it on the top of the cheese, and turn 
the sieve over, so that the cheese may drop out on the dry 



246 The Dominion Cook Book. 

cloth. Replace it in the sieve, so that it may both drain and 
keep in shape. For the two following days the napkins should 
be changed at least three times each day. On the fourth day 
the cheese will be ready for use. 

875. Sage Cheese. 

Bruise some young red sage and spinach leaves, extract the 
juice, and mix it with the curd ; then proceed as with the other 
cheese. 

876. Apple Cheese— Ingredients — Equal weight of white sugar and 

apples, juice of 2 lemons and the peel cut finely — custard. 

Peel, pare, and core the apples, and cut into small pieces. 
Add the sugar, lemon juice and peel. Put them on the fire and 
keep moving them about to prevent their burning. Boil until 
the apples are quite mashed up and look clear, and in stirring 
the bottom of the pan comes clean. Dip a mould in cold water, 
put in your cheese, and serve next day cold with a custard 
round it. 

877. Cheese Straws— Ingredients— 6 oz. of flour, 4 oz. of butter, 3 

oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, a little cream, salt, white pepper 
and cayenne. 

Roll it out thin, cut it into narrow strips, bake in a moder- 
ate oven, and serve piled high and very hot and crisp. 

878. Roast Cheese — Ingredients — 3 oz. of cheese, yolksof 2 eggs, 

4 oz. of grated bread crumbs, 3 oz. of butter, a dessertspoonful of 
mustard, salt and pepper. 

Grate the cheese, add the yolks, bread crumbs, and butter ; 
beat the whole well in a mortar and add the mustard, salt and 
pepper. Make soipe toast, cut into neat slices, and spread the 
paste thickly on. Cover with a dish and place in the oven till 
hot through, then uncover and let the cheese color a light 
brown. Serve immediately. 

879. Cheese Toast — Ingredients — Some nice butter, made mustard 

and salt, a little cheese ; toast. 
Mix the butter, mustard and salt, spread on toast and 
sprinkle with the cheese, grated. 

880. Cheese Dish.— Ingredients— X li>- of good fresh cheese. We 

mean not very old, or much dried, I cup of sweet milk, }^ oia. tea- 
spoonful of dry mustard. A little pepper and salt, tablespoonfiil of 
butter. 
Cut the cheese into thin slices, put it into a " spider" or 



To Make Butter. 247 

saucepan, and pour over it the milk mix in the other 
ingredients. Stir this mixture all the time while over the fire. 
Turn the contents into a hot dish and serve immediately. 

881. Curd for Cheesecakes— Ingredients— One quart of new 

milk, I tablespoonful rennet, alum the size of a nutmeg, 3 oz. of 
butter, 2 or 3 eggs, sugar to taste, a few currants. 

Put a quart of new milk into a clean pan, and set it by the 
side of the fire so that it will keep blood warm ; put the rennet 
into it, too much will make the curd hard and the whey very 
salt; in a short time it will be separated into curd and whey, 
which cut into small pieces with a knife. Or, put in a small 
piece of alum, about the size of a nutmeg, into the milk, and 
let it boil. Strain the curd from the whey by means of a hair 
sieve, either let it drain, or press it dry ; pass the curd through 
the sieve by squeezing it into a basin. Melt the butter and 
mix with the curd, also two or three eggs, or else one egg and 
four yokes ; add sugar to your palate ; with a little grated nug- 
meg, and a few currants if approved of ; mix the whole together, 
and fill the cases 

882. Cheese (pounded) — Ingredients — ^Allow % lb. of butter to i 

lb. of cheese. 
This dish is economical, as dry cheese may be used. Slice 
(lie cheese into small pieces, then add the butter. Proceed to 
put it in a stone jar, pressing it down tightly ; put a layer of 
clarified butter over the top. It may be flavored with cayenne 
or mixed mustard. 

883. Macaroni — Ingredients — % lb. of butter, }i lb. tubular macar- 

oni, S oz. of Parmesan cheese, 2 glasses of milk, I qt. of water, 
pepper and salt to taste. » 

Mix the milk and water, salting it to taste, place in a stew- 
pan on the fire, bring to a boil and drop in the macaroni. 
When tender, drain and dish. Grate three ounces of the cheese 
and mix with the macaroni. Now mix in half of the butter, 
sprinkling a little pepper over. Put the rest of the grated 
cheese on the top covering with bread crumbs. Warm the rest 
of the butter (do not let it oil), pour over the bread crumbs. 
Brown before the fire or with a salamander. 

884. Macaroni a la Runi — Ingredients — 8 oz. macaroni, 10 oz. of 

any well flavored cheese, ^ pt. of good cream, a little salt, sea- 
soning of cayenne, yi a salt spoonful of pounded mace, 2 oz. of 
sweet fresh butter. 



348 



The Dominion Cook Book. 



Boil the macaroni in the usual way, and by the time it is 
sufficiently tender dissolve gently the cheese in the above 
quantity of cream, add a little salt and rather a full seasoning 
of cayenne. Now add the pounded mace and butter. The 
cheese should, in the first instance, be sliced very thin, and 
taken quite free of the hard part adjoining the rind ; it should 
be stirred in the cream without intermission until it is entirely 
dissolved and the whole is perfectly smooth ; the macaroni, 
previously well drained, may then be tossed gently in it, or 
after it is dished, the cheese may be poured equally over the 
macaroni. The whole, in either case, may be thickly covered 
before it is sent to table, with fine crumbs of bread fried of 
a pale gold color, and dried perfectly, either before the fire or 
in an oven, when such an addition is considered an improve- 
ment. As a matter of precaution, it is better to boil the cream 
before the cheese is melted in it ; rich white sauce, made not 
very thick, with an additional ounce or two of butter, may be 
used to vary and enrich this preparation. Do not use ParB>?- 
san cheese for this dish. 




^^ SICK ROOM COOKERY. 




There is sickness everywhere, and as it falls to the lot of 
most women at some time in their lives to be nurse or cook for 
the sick, a few hints may be useful. Every woman with a ten- 
der, loving heart, no matter what her position, will try in such a 
case to tempt the appetite of the afflicted with her own delicate 
cooking and serving, the result being in many cases, returning 
health, and in any case having the satisfaction of knowing you 
have done what you could. An anonymous writer says : — 

" Invalids soon realize their dependence on others. I will 
say this much to every family that has an invalid charge, be 
kind to them; don't be always reminding them of expenses ; do 
not make them feel that they are a burden to you. God sends 
the affliction upon them. They would not be a burden to you 
if they could help it, and I believe when the final day of 
judgment comes, the great Ruler of the Universe will deal with 
you as you have dealt with the sick ones. And with many the 
sentence will be, ' Ye knew your duty, but ye did it not.' It 
is said, ' No physician ever weighed out medicine to his patient 
with half as much exactness and care as God weighed out to us 
every trial ; not one grain too much does He ever permit to be 
put in the scale.' It is hard for us to feel that our afflictions 
are sent to us for some wise purpose. Our burdens seem more 
than we can bear, and it is still harder for us to say ' Thy will, 
not mine, be done.' Be kind to the sick ones ; their lot in life 
is hard enough. Throw a ray of sunshine across their path. 
There are a thousand and one ways that you can brighten their 
lives by a little attention. There are many ways we could make 
others happy if we only would try and we would be so much 
happier ourselves. Just think of the poor invalid that is con- 
fined to the house, seeing the same things day after day (yes, 
and often year after year), until they know every seam in the 
carpet, every flower on the wall — yes, every spot on the furni- 

24Q 



250 The Dominion Cook Eook. 

tjire. Their eyes will ache from the very sameness, and they 
feel that it would be a blessing to close them in utter oblivion. 
It ought to be not only a pleasure, but a stern duty for us to 
lighten their burdens and make life bearable to them." 

In preparing dishes for the sick, it is needful to combine the 
strongest nourishment with the simplest seasoning, as they re- 
quire food which will not need too much exertion of the diges- 
tive power. Sweet-breads broiled to a nice brown ; oysters 
roasted in the shell, or plainly stewed ; clam broth, and even 
calves' brains, are highly recommended as articles of diet, 
which will give the most nutritious food in the smallest quan- 
tities. All kinds of gruel are unpalatable to some persons, but 
fortunately tastes differ, and there are those who will take with 
a decided relish large bowlfuls of flour, oatmeal and even 
Indian-meal porridge. 

Never set before the sick a large quantity of food ; tempt 
with a very small portion delicately cooked and tastefully served. 
If not eaten directly, remove from the sick room without delay 
as no food should be allowed to stand there. Do not give the 
same food often, as variety is charming. Never keep the sick 
waiting, always have something in readiness — a little jelly, beef 
tea, stewed fruit, gruel, etc. It will be found more tempting 
to serve any of these in glasses. If much milk is used keep it 
on ice. Let all invalid cookery be simple ; be careful to remove 
every particle of fat from broth or beef-tea before serving. 

The best diet for brain workers who take proper care of their 
health is brown bread, cream, fresh butter, oatmeal, fresh cheese 
(if it agrees), eggs, fish and a moderate amount of meat. Oysters 
may be used freely in their season, and fruits should not be 
omitted. There should be a variety and change as the season 
and health require. The diet should be varied in kind and 
form quite frequently, though not necessarily every day. Even 
in health, the best viands when continued from day to day 
become unpalatable, and even nauseous. An occasional change 
ofdiet, in short, is indispensable to a proper relish for food, and 
the maintenance of the appetite and good health. 

885. Chicken Milk — Ingredients— Chicken, heads of celery, a little 
parsley, 6 peppercorns and a little salt. 

After carefully cleaning the chicken, skin and cut into small 
pieces. Put these into a china lined saucepan with the bones 
and neck, the heart of the celery, stalks of a bunch of parsley. 



Sick Room Cookery. 251 

peppercorns and a little salt. Cover with cold water and 
allow to simmer till the meat will drop from the bones. Strain, 
and when cold take a clean soft cloth dipped in hot water and 
wipe over the jelly gently to remove any fat that may appear. 
Now put equal proportions of jelly and milk into a china lined 
saucepan, boil up three times an'd strain into an inviting looking 
cup and serve hot or cold. Good for invalids recovering from 
typhoid fever. 

886. Veal Broth — Ingredients — i^ lb. of veal, i doz. sweet almonds,' 

a qt. of spring water, a little salt, I pt. of boiling water. 

Remove all the fat from the veal, and simmer gently in the 
spring water till it is reduced to a pint ; blanch and pound the 
almonds till they are a smooth paste, then pour over them the 
boiling water very slowly, stirring all the time till it is as 
smooth as milk; strain both the almond and veal liquors 
through a fine sieve and mix well together, and add the salt 
and boil up again. 

887. Chicken Broth— Ingredients— An old fowl, 3 pts. of water, a 

pinch of salt, a blade of mace, 6 or 8 peppercorns, a very small 
chopped onion, a few sprigs of sweet herbs. 

Cut up the fowl and put it, bones as well, in a saucepan 
with the water, salt, mace, peppercorns, onion and sweet herbs ; 
let it simmer very gently till the meat is very tender, which will 
take about three hours, skimming well during the tine. Strain 
carefully and set aside to cool. 

888. EgS Broth — Ingredients— An egg, yi pt. of good unflavored veal 

or mutton broth quite hot, salt, toast. 

Beat the egg well in a broth basin ; when frothy add the 
broth, salt to taste, and serve with toast. 

889. Eel Broth — Ingredients — % lb. of small eels, 3 pts. of water, some 

parsley, I slice of onion, a few peppercorns, salt to taste. 

Clean the eels and set them on the fire with the water, pars- 
ley, onion and peppercorns ; let them simmer till the eels are 
broken and the broth good. Add salt to taste and strain. 
These ingredients should make about a pint and a half of 
broth. 

8go. Beef Broth (i) — Ingredients — i lb. of good lean beef, 2 qts. of 
cold water, ^ a teacup of tapioca, a small piece of parsley, an onion 
if liked, pepper and salt. 

Soak the tapioca one hour, cut in small pieces the beef, put 



252 The Dominion Cook Book. 

in a stewpan the above proportion of water, boil slowly (keep- 
ing well covered) one and a half hours, then add the tapioca, 
and boil half an hour longer. Some add with the tapioca g 
small piece of parsley, and a slice or two of onion ; strain bC' 
fore serving, seasoning slightly with pepper and salt. It is more 
strengthening to add, just before serving, a soft poached egg. 
Rice may be used instead of tapioca, straining the broth, and 
adding one or two tablespoons of rice (soaked for a short time), 
and then boiling half an hour. 

891. Beef Broth (2)— Ingredients— i^ lb. of finely minced beef, I qt. 

of cold water, a little salt, and 2 oz. of rice or barley. 

Simmer for four hours, then boil for ten minutes, strain, 
skim oif the fat and serve. 

892. Scotch Broth — Ingredients — The liquor in which a leg of mutton, 

piece of beef or old fowl has been boiled, barley, vegetables chopped 
small, a cup of rough oatmeal mixed in cold water, salt and pepper 
to taste. 

Add to the liquor some barley and vegetables, chopped 
small, in sufficient quantity to make the broth quite thick. 
The necessary vegetables are carrots, turnips, onions and cab- 
bage, but any others may be added ; old (not parched) peas 
and celery are good additions. When the vegetables are boiled 
tender add the oatmeal to the broth, salt and pepper to taste. 
This very plain preparation is genuine Scotch broth as served 
in Scotland ; with any coloring or herbs, etc., added, it is not 
real Scotch broth. It is extremely palatable and wholesome in 
its plain form. 

893. Broths (Beef, Mutton and Veal)— Ingredients— 2 lbs. of 

lean beef, i Jb. scrag of veal, i lb. of scrag of mutton, some sweet 
herbs, 10 peppercorns, S qts. of water, i onion. 

Put the meat, sweet herbs, and peppercorns into a nice tin 
saucepan, with the water, and simmer till reduced to three 
quarts. Remove the fat when cold. Add the onioii, if ap- 
proved. 

894. Calves' Feet Broth— Ingredients— 2 calves' feet, ^}i qts. of 

water, a large teacupfiil of jelly, a little sugar, nutmeg, yolk of I egg, 
a piece of butter the size of a nutmeg, a piece of fresh lemon peel. 

Boil the calves' feet in the water, strain and put aside ; when 
to be used take ofT the fat, put the jelly into a saucepan with 
the sugar and nutmeg; beat it up till it is ready to boil, then 
take a little of it and beat gradually to the yolk of egg, and 



Sick Room Cookery, -jjs 



adding the butter, stir all together, but don't let it boil. Grate 
the lemon peel into it. 

895. Beef Tea (simplest way of making). 

Cut the beef into very small pieces, and take away all the 
fat. Put it into a stone jar with a pint of water to each pound 
of beef ; tie a double piece of brown paper over the top, and set 
the jar in a cool oven for several hours. Strain the beef tea off 
through a rather coarse strainer, and while it is hot take off 
every speck of fat with paper. If it is wanted stronger put only 
half that amount of water. Should an oven be not obtainable, 
it will do equally well to place the jar in a large saucepan of 
boiling water; but it will not do to cook it in a metal saucepan 
without a jar, because an invalid's palate is very sensitive, and 
the tea is sure to acquire an unpleasant flavor. If in the place 
of lean beef some beef bones are used, the tea will become a 
jelly when cold; it will be less costly and less good. Any sort 
of flavoring may be added to it. A scrap of lemon peel, a clove, 
a grate of nutmeg, a sprig of any sweet herb, or of parsley, put 
into the jar before cooking, will, any one of them, make a 
pleasant change, and a little ingenuity will soon increase the 
list. Such changes are grateful to a convalescent patient, and 
break the monotony of his life. However, a patient not decided- 
ly convalescent needs nothing but beef and water, often not 
even salt. It is a lengthy process this ; and, if time is wanting 
to carry it out, twenty minutes is quite sufficient to set a cup of 
good beef tea on the table. First of all, prepare half a pint of 
the following 

896. IVIeat-Juice. 

Scrape with a knife, because no cutting divides it finely 
enough, half a pound of beef steak, and remove all the fat and 
skin. Put it into a basin with half a pint of tepid water, and 
let it stand fifteen minutes or longer. The result is what is 
commonly known as raw beef tea or meat juice, every year 
more widely known as a restorative for infants as well as adults 
in cases of wasting or acute disease. Its appearance is against 
it, but the taste is simply that of any cold beef tea. Children 
generally take it without difficulty ; but adults, unless they are 
too weak to have an opinion on the point, have often an insur- 
mountable objection to it. Nothing can then be done but to 
hide it in a colored or covered cup, or to add a little Liebig's 



254 The Dominion Cook Book. 

iixtract to conceal the color. Meat-juice is easier to assimilate 
than any form of cooked beef tea, and is the only sort that 
may at all times be safely given to very young infants. It has 
saved many lives, especially those of ricketty and wasted chil- 
dren and typhoid patients, and it seems right that everyone 
should know how to set about making it. But, to return to 
our 

897^ Quickly Made BecF Tea. 

Take the above juice and meat together, and put it on a slow 
fire. Let it boil for not longer than five minutes, strain it and 
it is ready for use. If it has been carefully scraped there will 
be no fat upon it, but if there should be some it can easily be 
removed with paper. Salt must be added to taste. 

898. Another Quick Method. 

Scrape the beef as before, and remember that it is useless to 
put in gristle or sinew, because in none of these quick methods 
is there sufficient time to cook it. Set the meat over a very 
slow fire without water for a quarter of an hour, then add warm 
water and simmer for half an hour or longer. 

^99. Beef Tea Custard. 

This may be served alone either hot or cold, or a few small 
pieces can be put in a cup of beef tea, which is thus transferred 
into a kind of soupe royale. Beat up an egg in a cup, add a 
small pinch of salt, and enough strong beef tea to half fill the 
cup ; butter a tiny mould and pour in the mixture. Steam it 
for twenty minutes, and turn it out in a shape. 

gcx). Savory Beef Tea — Ingredients — 3 lbs. of beef chopped up 
finely, 3 leeks, i onion with 6 cloves stuck into it, i small carrot, a 
little celery seed, a small bunch of herbs, consisting of thyme, mar- 
joram, and parsley, I teaspoonful of salt, % a teacupful of mushroom 
ketchup, and 3 pts. of water. 
Prepare according to the directions given in the first recipe. 
901. Mush. 

Put some water or milk into a pot and bring it to boil, then 
let the corn meal out of one hand gently into the milk or water, 
and keep stirring with the other until you have got it into a 
pretty stiff state ; after which let it stand ten minutes or a 
quarter of an hour or less, or even only one minute, and then 
take it out, and put it into a dish or bowl. This sort of half- 
pudding, half porridge, you eat either hot or cold, with a little 



Sick Room Cookery. 255 

salt or without it. It is eaten without any liquid matter, but 
the general way is to have a basin of milk, and taking a lump 
of the mush you put it into the milk, and eat the two together. 
Here is an excellent pudding, whether eaten with milk or with- 
out it, whether you take it hot or cold. It is neither hard 
nor lumpy when cold, but quite light and digestible for the most 
feeble stomachs. 

902. Fowl (stewed in Barley)— Ingredients— l chicken, X 'b. of 

peaTl barley, enough milk to cover the barley, only a little salt, a 
bunch of sweet herbs. 

Truss the chicken as for boiling ; place it in a stewpan with 
the well-washed barley ; sprinkle a little salt in and the sweet 
herbs ; enough milk to cover the barley ; put it on the fire, and 
let it stew very slowly, continue to add milk as it boils away, 
so that the barley may be always covered, but not the chicken, 
which should be dressed only by the steam, from the milk. A 
small bird will take about three hours. When done serve with 
the milk and barley round it. 

903. Vegetable Marrow (stuffed)- Ingredients— i marrow, 

some mince of either veal or chicken, bread crumbs, good gravy. 

Take a good sized marrow, boil until tender, halve length- 
ways ; remove the seeds, and fill the inside with hot mince ; 
join the two sides together, place upon a hot dish sprinkle with 
grated bread crumbs ; set in the oven to brown for a few min- 
utes. Serve with a boat of good gravy. 

904. Mutton Cutlets (delicate)— Ingredients— 2 or 3 small cut- 

lets from the best end of a neck or loin of mutton, I cupful of water 
or broth, a little salt and a few peppercorns. 

Trim the cutlets very nicely, cut off all the fat, place them 
in a flat dish with enough water or broth to cover them, add 
the salt and peppercorns and allow them to stew gently for two 
hours, carefully skimming off every particle of fat which may 
rise to the top during the process. At the end of this time, 
provided the cutlets have not been allowed to boil fast, 
they will be found extremely tender. Turn them when half 
done. 

905. Lambs' Fry (French)— Ingredients— 2 sets of lambs' fry, 2 

eggs, bread crumbs, chopped parsley, hot lard. 

Blanch the fry ten minutes in boiling water, drain them on a 



256 The Dominion Cook Book. 

sieve, and when quite dry egg over with a paste brush ; throw 
them into bread crumbs, with which you have mixed some 
chopped parsley, fry them in very hot lard of a nice light brown 
color, dress pyramidically upon a napkin, garnish with fried 
parsley, and serve. 

906. Rabbit (stewed) — Ingredients — 2 nice young rabbits, i qt, of 

milk, I tablespoonful of flour, a blade of mace, salt and pepper. 

Mix into a smooth paste the flour with half a glass of milk, 
then add the rest of the milk ; cut the rabbits up into conven- 
ient pieces ; place in a stewpan with the other ingredients and 
simmer gently until perfectly tender. 

907. Sweetbreads. 

These, when plainly cooked, are well adapted for the conval- 
escent. They should be slowly boiled, and very moderately 
seasoned with salt and cayenne pepper. 

90S. Pork Jelly (Dr. RatclifFe's Restorative)— Ingredierts 
— A leg of well-fed pork, 3 gals, of water, ^ oz. of mace, the same 
of nutmeg, salt to taste. 

Take the pork just as cut up, beat it, and break the bone. 
Set it over a gentle fire with the water and simmer until it is 
reduced to one gallon. Let the mace and nutmeg stew with it. 
Strain through a fine sieve. When cold take off the fat. Give 
a large cupful the first and last thing and at noon, putting salt 
to taste. 

909. Shank Jelly — Ingredients — 12 shanks of mutton, 3 blades of 

mace, an onion, 20 Jamaica, and 30 or 40 black peppers, a bunch of 
herbs, a crust of bread toasted brown, and 3 qts. of water. 

Soak the shanks for four hours, then brush and scour them 
very clean. Lay in a saucepan with all the ingredients, pour- 
ing in the water last, and set them near the stove; let them 
simmer as gently as possible for five hours, then strain and 
place in a cool place. This may have the addition of a pound 
of beef, if approved, for flavor. It is a remarkably good thing 
for persons who are weak. 

910. Arrowroot Jelly— Ingredients — ^pt. of water, grated nutmeg, 

and fine sugar, dessertspoonful of arrowroot rubbed smooth in 2 
spoonfuls of cold water. 
This is a very nourishing dish. Put into a saucepan all the 
ingredients excepting the arrowroot ; boil up once then mix 



Sick Room Cookkry. 257 

in by degrees the arrowroot ; then return the whole into the 
saucepan ; stir and boil it three minutes. 

911. Tapioca, Jelly — Ingredients — Some of largest kind of tapioca, 

some lemon juice and sugar. 

Pour cold water on to wash it two or three times, then soak 
it in fresh water iive or six hours, and simmer it in the same 
until quite clear ; then add the lemon juice and sugar. The 
peel should have been boiled in it. It thickens very much. 

912. Meat Jelly — Ingredients — Beef, isinglass, I teacupful of water, 

salt to taste. 

Cut some beef into very small pieces and carefully remove 
all the fat. Put it in an earthen jar with alternate layers of 
the best isinglass (it is more digestible than gelatine) until the 
jar is full. Then add a teacupful of water with a little salt, 
cover it down closely, and cook it all day in a very slow oven. 
In the morning scald a jelly mould and strain the liquid into it. 
It will be quite clear, except at the bottom, where will be the 
brown sediment such as is in all beef tea, and it will turn out 
in a shape. It is, of course, intended to be eaten cold, and is 
very useful in cases where hot food is forbidden, or as a variety 
from the usual diet. 

913. Invalid's Cutlet — Ingredients — i cutlet from the loin or neck of 

mutton, 2 cupfuls of water, I very small stick of celery, pepper and 
salt to taste. 

Have the cutlet cut from a very nice loin or neck of mutton ; 
take off all the fat ; put it into a stewpan, with the other ingre- 
dients ; stew very gently for nearly two hours, and skim off 
every particle of fat that may rise to the surface. The celery 
should be cut into thin slices before it is added to the meat, 
and care must be taken not to put in too much of this ingredi- 
ent, or the dish will not be good. 

914. Chicken Panada— Ingredients— A chicken, qt. of water, a 

little salt, a grate of nutmeg, and the least piece of lemon peel. 

Boil the chicken about three parts done in the water, take 
off the skin, cut the white meat off when cold, and pound in a 
mortar; pound it to a paste with a ittle of the water it was 
boiled in ; season with salt, nutmeg and lemon peel. Boil gently 
for a few minutes to the consistency you desire. 



258 The Dominion Cook Book. 

915. Gravy Sippets— Ingredients— 2 or 3 sippets of bread, gravy 

from mutton, beef or veal, salt to taste. 

On an extremely hot plate put the sippets and pour over 
them the gravy. Sprinkle a little salt over. 

916. A Good Restorative (i)— Ingredients— 2 caives feet, 2 pts. 

of water, 2 pts. of new milk. 

Bake all together in a closely covered jar for three hours 
and a half. When cold, remove the fat. Give a large teacup- 
fal the last and first thing. Whatever flavor is approved, give it 
by baking in it lemon peel, cinnamon, or mace. Add sugar after. 

917. Another (2) — Ingredients — 6 sheep's trotters, 2 blades of mace, a 

little cinnamon, lemon peel, a few hartshorn shavings, a little isin- 
glass, and 2 qts. of water. 

Simmer to one quart, when cold take off the fat, and give 
nearly half a pint twice a day, warming with it a little new milk. 

918. Another (3^ — Ingredients — i oz. of isinglass shavings, 40 Jamaica 

peppers, a piece of brown crust of bread, i qt. of water. 

Boil to a pint and strain. This makes a pleasant jelly to 
keep in the house, of which a large spoonful may be taken in 
milk, tea, soup, or any way. 

919. Another (a most pleasant cSraught) (4)— Ingredients 

— J4^ oz. of isinglass shavings, I pt. cf new milk, a little sugar. 

Boil to half-pint ; add for change, a bitter almond. Give 
this at bed-time, not too warm. 

920. Sag^O Cream — Ingredients- - pt. of boiling cream, I qt. of beef 

tea, I oz. of sago, i gill water, and the yolks of 4 fresh eggs. 

Boil the sago in the water till quite tender, when add the 
other ingredients. 

921. Chocoiate^Ingredients — A cake of chocolate, i pt. of water, 

milk, sugar. 

Cut the chocolate into small pieces ; put the water into a 
saucepan and add the chocolate ; mill it off the fire until quite 
melted, then on a gentle fire until it boils ; pour into a basin 
and it will keep in a cool place eight or ten days. When 
wanted put a spoonful or two into milk, boil it with sugar and 
mix well. 

92*. Milk Porridge— Ingredients— Some half grits long boiled, milk, 
toast. 
Make a gruel of the half grits ; strain, and add either cold 
milk or warm milk as you desire. Serve with toast'. 



Sick Room Cookery. 259 

923. French Porridgfe— Ingredients— Some oatmeal, water, milk, 

toast. 

Stir the oatmeal and water together, let it stand to be clear, 
and pour off the latter ; pour fresh upon it, stir it well, let it 
stand till next day ; strain through a fine sieve, and boil the 
water, adding the milk while doing. The proportion of water 
must be small. This is much ordered, with toast, for the break- 
fast of weak persons, abroad. 

924. Ground Rice Milk. —Ingredients — One tablespoonful ef 

ground rice rubbed smooth in i^ pts. of milk, a piece of cinnamon, 
lemon peel and nutmeg. 

Boil the ground rice and milk, adding the spices and flavor- 
ing. Sweeten to taste when nearly done. 

925. Sagro IMiik. — Ingredients — Sago, new milk. 

Cleanse the sago from the earthy taste by soaking it in cold 
water for an hour, pour that ofif and wash well, then add more, 
and simmer gently with the milk. It swells so much that a 
small quantity will be sufficient for a quart, when done reduce 
to about a pint. It requires no sugar or flavoring. 

926. ES£S and Toast. — Ingredients — 2 eggs, thinly cut slices of 

bread, i teaspoonful of vinegar, little salt, a piece of butter the size 
of a walnut, a few sprigs of fresh, green parsley or some sweet ger- 
anium leaves. 

Take the thinly-cut slices of bread, and toast them quickly 
to a light brown, without burning them. Drop an egg or two 
into boiling water into which the vinegar has been poured, and 
a little salt added to it. Pour one tablespoonful of boiling water 
over a piece of butter, turn it over the toast, and if it is very dry 
dip the whole of it into the melted butter and water, soaking 
the crusts completely. Skim out the eggs as soon as the 
whites are firmly set and put them upon the toast. Edge the 
plate with a few sprigs of fresh, green parsley, or some sweet 
geranium leaves, and serve upon a salver covered with a white 
napkin. An invalid will usually eat of this with great relish. 

927. Baked Hominy. — Ingredients — To a cupfiil of cold boiled hom- 

iny (small kind) allow 2 cups of milk, a heaping teaspoonful of 
white sugar, a little salt, and 3 eggs. 

Beat the eggs very light, yokes and whites separately. 
Work the yokes into the hominy, alternately with the butter. 
When thoroughly mixed, put in the sugar and salt, and go on 



26o The Dominion Cook Book. 

beating while you moisten the batter gradually with milk. Be 
careful to leave no lumps in the batter. Lastly, stir in the 
whites and bake in a buttered pudding dish until light, firm and 
delicately browned. It may be eaten as a dessert, but it is a 
delightful article, and the best substitute that can be devised 
for green corn pudding. 

928. Stravirberries — Ingredients — Fruit, white sugar, juice of 2 or 3 

lemons in proportion to the fruit. 

The way to make strawberries digestible to those who are 
unable to eat them on account of dyspepsia or any other cause 
is very simple. Cover them with a very large allowance of 
powdered sugar and then squeeze over them the lemon juice, 
which brings out the strawberry flavor more than anything else, 
and its acidity is counteracted by the large quantity of sugar. 
The lemon juice should be in the same proportion as the cream 
would be in the place of which it is used. 

929. Strengthening Blanc-Mange. — Ingredients— i pt. milk, 

% oz. isinglass, rind of ^ a small lemon, 2oz. of sugar, yolks of 3 

fresh eggs. 
Dissolve the isinglass in the water, strain through muslin, 
set it again on the fire with the rind of the half lemon cut very 
thin, and the sugar ; let it simmer gently until well flavored, then 
take out the lemon peel, and stir the milk to the beaten yolks 
of the eggs; pour the mixture back into the saucepan, and hold 
it over the fire, keeping it stirred until it begins to thicken ; put 
it into a deep basin and keep it moved with a spoon until it is 
nearly cold, then pour it into the molds which have been laid 
in cold water, and set it in a cool place till firm. This we can 
recommend for invalids, as well as for the table generally. 

930. Water Gruel. — Ingredients— A large spoonful of oatmeal, water, 

salt and a little piece of butter. 
Rub smooth the oatmeal with two spoonfuls of water and^ 
pour it into a pint of water boiling on the fire; stir well and boil ' 
quickly. In a quarter of an hour strain it off and add the salt 
and butter when eaten ; stir until the butter is thoroughly in- 
corporated. 

931— EfFerveseing Gruel.— Ingredients-Half a breakfast cupful 
of thin water gruel, I tablespoonful of sifted white sugar, a salt- 
spoonful of carbonate of spda, juice of a lemon. 
Mix the soda and sugar well together and then put into the 



Sick Room Cookery. 261 

grael, stirring thoroughly; have ready the lemon juice, strained, 
mix it in and drink immediately while it is effervescing and as 
hot as possible. 

932. Barley Gruel — Ingredients — 4 oz. of pearl barley, 2 qts. of water, 

a stick of cinnamon, sugar to taste. 

Wash the barley, boil it in the water with the cinnamon 
till reduced to a quart ; strain and return to the saucepan with 
remaining ingredients, keep on the fire about five minutes, stir- 
ring all the while. Pour into a jug and when wanted warm up 
again. 

933. Hominy (I). 

Wash it in two or three waters, pour boiling water on it and 
let it soak for at least ten hours ; then put it into a stewpan, 
allowing two quarts of water to one quart of hominy, and boil 
it slowly four or five hours, or until it is perfectly tender ; then 
drain it, put it into a deep dish, add salt and a piece of butter 
and serve as a vegetable with meat 

934. Hominy (2). 

Put some water on the fire, and when it boils add a little 
salt ; drop in gradually the hominy, and boil fifteen to twenty 
minutes, stirring well all the time with a wooden spoon ; 
serve with milk or cream. If preferred it may be boiled in 
milk in the same way. It also makes excellent puddings cook- 
ed in the same way as rice or tapioca, but it should be well 
soaked before cooking ; it may also be formed into shapes and 
served with jam or custard. 

935. Ess Gl'uel. — Ingredients — Yollc of one egg, I tablespoonfiil of 

sugar, % oi a. cupful of boiling water, wiiite of the egg. 

Beat the yolk of the egg with the sugar till very light ; on 
this pour the boiling water, on the top put the white of the egg 
beaten to a stiff froth with a little sugar. 

936. Custards — Ingredients — I qt. of milk, i stick of cinnamon, the 

rind of a lemon, a few laurel leaves or bitter almonds, sugar to taste, 
the yolks of 8 eggs, the whites of 4; 

Boil the milk with cinnamon, lemon rind, laurel leaves and 
sugar ; well whisk the yolks with the whites of four eggs, add- 
ing a little milk, then strain into a dish. When the milk boils, 
take it off the fire and strain it ; then stir the eggs into it ; returh 
the whole to the saucepan and set it on the fire again, stirring 



262 The Dominion Cook Book. 

constantly; let it come to the boiling point, then take it off the 
fire, pour it into a large jug, and continue stirring it until it is 
nearly cold. It should now have the consistency of thick 
cream, and is ready for being poured into custard glasses; when 
the glasses are filled, grate a little nutmeg over them. 

937. A Nice Drink for a Cough— Ingredients— A fresh laid 

egg, % pt. of new milk warmed, a large spoonful of capillaire, the 
same of rose water, a little grated nutmeg. 

Beat the egg and mix with remaining ingredients. Do not 
warm it after the egg has been put in. 

938. Toast and Water— Ingredients— A slice of bread, a jug of cold 

water. 

Toast slowly the bread till extremely brown and hard, but 
not in the least black. Put into the water and cover closely for 
an hour before used. It should be a fine brown color before 
using. 

939. A Nice Drink — Ingredients — A glass of clear, cold water, a 

tablespoonful of capillaire, a tablespoonful of some good vinegar. 

Put the capillaire and vinegar into the water and it is ready. 

Tamarinds, currants, fresh or in jelly, or scalded currants, 
or cranberries, make excellent drink ; with sugar or not, accord- 
ing to taste. 

940. Lemonade (i). — Ingredients — Six large lemons and I lb. of loaf 

sugar. 

Rub the sugar over the rinds to get out the flavor, then 
squeeze out all the juice on the sugar, cut what remains of the 
lemons into slices and pour on them a quart of boiling water ; 
when this has cooled strain it on to the juice and sugar and 
add as much more water (cold) as will make it palatable. A 
teaspoonful of orange flower water added gives it a pleasant 
flavor, much liked by some people. 

941. Lemonade (2). — Ingredients — I oz. tartaric acid, i lb. loaf sugar 

I pt. of boiling water, and 20 or 30 drops of essence of lemon. 
To be kept in a bottle and mixed with cold water as desired. 

942. iVilik Lemonade— Ingredients — 2 lbs. of loaf sugar dissolved 

in aqt. of boiling water, >?pt. of lemon juice, I pt. of new milk 
(cold). 
Mix the dissolved sugar, the lemon juice and milk. Stir 
the whole well and strain ready for use. 



Sick Room Cookery. 263 

943. A Fever Drink (i)— Ingredients — A little tea-sae;e, 2 sprigs of 

balm, a very small quantity of wood sorrel, a small lemon, 3 pts. of 
boiling water. 

Put the sage, balm and wood sorrel into a stone jug, hav- 
ing previously washed and dried them. Peel thin the lemon and 
cle ir from the white ; slice and put a piece of the peel in ; then 
paar on the water, sweeten and cover. 

944. A Fever Drink (2) — Ingredients — i oz. pearl barley, 3 pts. water, 

1 oz. of sweet almonds, a piece of lemon peel, a little syrup of lem- 
on and capiUaire. 

"IVash well the barley ; sift it twice, then add the water, 
sweet almonds beaten fine, and the lemon peel ; boil till you 
have a smooth liquid, then add the syrup. 

945. Apple Water. — Ingredients — Some well-flavored apples, 3 or 4 

cloves, a strip of lemon peel, boiling water. 

Slice the apples into a large jug, they need be neither peeled 
nor cored. Add the cloves and lemon peel, and pour boil- 
ing water over. Let it stand a day. It will be drinkable in 
twelve hours or less. 

946. Currant Water.— Ingredients — One quart of red currants,^ 

pt. of raspberries, 2 qts. of water, syrup — I qt. of water, about J^ 
lb. of sugar. 

Put the fruit with the water over a very slow fire to draw 
the juice, for half an hour. They must not boil. Strain 
through a hair sieve, add the syrup. Other fruit may be used 
in the same way. 

947. Barley Water. —Ingredients — 2 oz. of barley, 2 qts. of water, 

flavor with lemon, currant, or any juice preferred. 

Wash the barley and boil in the water till it looks white and 
the barley grows soft ; then strain and flavor. 

948. Peppermint Water — Ingredients — Three quarts of water 

(boiling), 8c. worth of oil of peppermint, sugar to taste. 

Boil the water and pour into a jug and let it remain till 
lukewarm ; add the oil of peppermint ; sweeten and stir till 
cold ; then bottle. 

949. — Vinegar Whey (used in fevers)— Ingredients — Half a gill of 
vinegar, 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, 2 teacupfuls of milk, (boiling). 

Mix the vinegar with the sugar, stir in the boiling milk; let 
it boil one or tv.o minutes coo) it and strain off the whey. 



264 Thk Dominion Cook Book. 

Lemon juice may be used instead of vinegar, if preferred it is 
then called lemon whey. 

950. Seidlitz Powders. 

Two drachms of tartarized soda and two scruples of bicar- 
bonate of soda for the blue packet, and 30 grains of tartaric 
acid for the white paper. 

951. EfFervescing Saline Draughts. 

White sugar powdered, eight ounces ; tartaric acid two ozs; 
sesquicarbonate of soda, two ounces ; essence of lemon, a few 
drops.' Mix well, and keep in a corked bottle. 

952. Rice Milk — Ingredients — Two tablespoonfuls of rice, i pt. of 

milk, I tablespoonful of ground rice (if wanted thick, 2 will be re- 
quired,) a little cold milk. 

Put the rice into the pint of milk ; boil it until done, stirring 
to prevent it burning. Put the ground rice with a little cold 
milk, mix smooth and stir it in ; boil for about a quarter of an 
hour. Thick milk may be made in the same way as " rice 
milk," only substituting flour for rice, thickening and sweeten- 
ing to taste. Five minutes boiling will do. 

653. Chamomile Tea.— Ingredients — I oz. of dried chamomile 
flowers, ^ oz. of dried orange peel, i qt. of boiling water. 

Put the chamomile into a jug with the orange peel. Pour 
over it the boiling water, and stand on the back of the stove 
just close enough to the fire to keep it simmering till the strength 
of the peel and flour is drawn out, then strain off for use and 
drink a wineglassful at a time. 

954. Dandelion Tea — Ingredients — 6 or 8 dandelion roots, accord- 
ing to size, I pt. of boiling water. 

Pull up the dandelion roots and cut off the leaves ; well 
wash the roots and scrape off a little of the skin. Cut them up 
into small pieces and pour the boiling water on them. Let 
tbein stand all night, then strain through muslin, and the tea is 
ready for use. It should be quite clear, and the color of brown 
sherry. One wineglassful should be taken at a time. The 
decoction will not last good for more than two or three days, and 
therefore it must only be made in small quantities. 



Sick Room Cookery. 265 

955. Sarsaparilla. (Simple decoction)— Ingiedients-5 oz. of sarsapar- 
illa chips, 4 pts. of water. 

Digest the chips in the water, let it simmer gently for two 
hours ; take out the chips, bruise and place them back in the 
water ; boil down to 2 pints and strain. 




I XHE DOCXOrJ^ 

1krX-X-X M. M. M^ M. M^ M. ^ ^ jm. JL m. ^JILML ^ *L MTJK m. m. m. M^ ^ M ^^ fUMM 



The following receipts are selected from eminent authori- 
ties and can be relied upon, but while in all cases it is prudent 
to consult . a medical man as soon as possible, the information 
under this heading will be found invaluable where the doctor is 
not readily available. 



956. A Medicine Box. 

Secure a deep cheese box, line it inside with dark cambric 
or cotton ; put pockets all around the inside about two inches 
from the top and let them extend very nearly to the bottom. 
In these pockets place white cotton, a sponge, safety pins, a spool 
of white silk, fingers from old kid gloves, court plaster, rolls 
of bandages, all sizes, mustard, vaseline, chloroform, sweet oil, 
bottle of arnica, saleratus and a bottle of good liniment. Have 
some uncleaned sheep's wool to use for smoking painful 
wounds. Put in everything that could be needed in any case of 
sudden illness br accident, in the body of the box put old linen, 
flannels, or old cotton cloths, so useful in sickness. Cover 
the top of the box with a cushion and tack a frill around the 
edge. Cover the box with the same material put on in box 
pleats. One of these boxes should be found in every house- 
hold. 

957. Fractures. 

A fracture is said to be simple when there is no external 
wound ; compound, when complicated with lesion of the sur- 
rounding soft parts ; and comminuted when the bone is broken 
into many fragments. The symptoms of fracture are pain and 
inability to move the limb. When there is great swelling, it is 
often difficult to ascertain the nature or even the existence of a 

266 



The Doctor. 267 



fracture. The course of a simple fracture is a painful and in- 
flamed swelling for a few days after the accident, with more or 
less febrile reaction j these gradually subside, and with proper 
treatment the bone unites in from one to two months, with or 
without deformity according to circumstances not always under 
the control of the surgeon. Complicated fractures often ter- 
minate in the death of portions of bone and of the soft parts, in 
unhealthy abscesses and tetanus, leading prehaps to fatal results 
unless the limb be removed. The indications of treatment are 
to reduce or set the fragments and keep them at rest and in 
close contact so as to prevent deformity ; all disturbing mus- 
cles must be relaxed, the ends of the bones extended and the 
parts properly supported and kept in place, the limb bandaged 
and some kind of splint is applied to keep it immovable of its 
natural length. The variety of bandage, splints and apparatus 
for the different kinds of fracture is very great, and in nothing 
does American surgery stand more pre-eminent than in its in- 
genious and effectual instruments for the treatment of broken 
bones. When a surgeon cannot be procured immediately the 
broken limb should be kept as nearly as possible in its natural 
position. The two portions of the bone must be pulled in op- 
posite directions, until the limb is of the same length as its 
fellow, then apply a splint and bind it to the part with a band- 
age. Of course when there is no deformity the pulling of the 
bones is unnecessary. Should there be much swelling a cold 
lotion should be used. If the patient is faint give brandy and 
water, or sal-volatile and water. 

958. How to Restore a Person apparently Drowned. 

Loosen everything around the neck. Turn the patient's 
face downward, and raise the body several inches higher than 
the head, and keep it in this position long enough to count five 
slowly. This will enable the water to escape from the mouth 
and nose. Place the patient on his back with the chest slight- 
ly raised (by some convenient article of «lothing such as a 
folded coat or shawl) and the head in a straight line with the 
body. Then practise artificial breathing in this way : — Stand 
astride the patient's hips, grasp the arms and raise them above 
the head until they nearly meet, which expands the chest ; 
then pull them down and press firmly in the sides of the chest ; 
this contracts the chest and thus forces the breath first in and 



268 The Dominion Cook Book. 

then out. While this is going on let another person catch 
hold of the tongue with a piece of cloth and pull it out, it 
maybe secured by fastening an elastic band over the tongue 
and under the chin ; this opens the little air-valve, covering 
the air- tube. While this is going on remove all wet clothing, 
cover the body with warm blankets, etc., and rub the body 
vigorously. If signs of life appear, place the patient in a warm 
bed in a well-ventilated room, and give hot drinks, such as 
milk, tea or coffee. 

959 Scalds and Burns. 
The first object is to cover the injured part with some suit- 
able material, and this should be kept on until the cure is 
complete. Apply to the burn or scald a mixture of lime water 
and linseed oil by saturating the hnt with the mixure. Do not 
remove when dry, but saturate by the application of fresh outer 
layers from time to time. If nothing better is at hand apply 
grated potato, flour, starch, etc. 

960. Bruises. 

Excite as quickly as possible, the absorption of bruised blood 
and apply butter, fresh raw beef, or even bathing with cold 
water is a very good though simple remedy. 

961. Hemorrhage 
may be checked by giving strong salt and water ; or by giving 
lemon juice. 

If an artery be cut, tie a string above the cut to prevent 
the escape of blood. Tighten the string if necessary by placing 
a ruler or stick in the string, twist this around, so as to make a 
knot pressing tightly on the artery. The blood from an artery 
is always of a very bright red and comes out in jets or spurts. 

962. To Remove a Bee Sting. 

Remove the sting at once with a needle or the fingers ; 
place a key tightly over the stung part, the pressure will force 
the poison out. Wipe the place with clean linen, suck it and 
then dab with the blue-bag. 

963. Bites of Snakes. 

These are dangerous and require powerful remedies. The 
bites of the various kinds of snakes do not have the same effects 



The Doctor. 269 



but people suflfer from them in different ways. It is of the 
greatest importance to prevent the poison mixing with the 
blood and to remove the whole of it instantly from the body. 
Take a piece of tape or anything that is near and tie tightly 
around the bitten part ; if it be the leg or arm, immediately 
above the bite and between it and the heart, the wound should 
be sucked several times by any person near. There is no 
danger to the person performing this act of kindness, providing 
his tongue or any part of his mouth has no broken skin. Hav- 
ing sucked the poison immediately spit it out. A better plan 
is to cut out the central part bitten with a sharp instrument. 
This may not be a very pleasant operation for an amateur, but, 
as we have to act promptly in such an emergency, courage will 
come. After the operation bathe the wound for some 
time to make it bleed freely. Having done this rub the wound 
with a stick of lunar caustic, or still better, a solution composed 
of sixty grains of lunar caustic dissolved in an ounce of water. 
This solution should be dropped into the wound. Of course 
the band tied round the wound in the first place must be kept 
on during the time these means are being adopted. The 
wound afterwards must be covered with lint dipped in cold 
water. There is generally great depression of strength in these 
cases, it is necessary therefore to give some stimulant, a glass of 
hot brandy and water, or twenty drops of sal-volatile. When 
the patient has somewhat recovered give him a little mustard 
in hot water to make him vomit, if on the other hand the 
vomiting is continuous, a large mustard poultice should be ap- 
plied to the stomach and one pill given composed of a grain 
of solid opium. Note. — Only one of these pills must be given 
without medical advice. 

All these remedies can be acted upon until a surgeon 
arrives. 

964. Bites of Dogs. 

The manner of treatment is the same as for snake bites. 
Many writers on the subject are in favor of the wouud being 
kept open as long as possible. Many persons do this by placing 
a few beans on the wound and then putting a linseed meal 
poultice over the wound. 

965. Treatment of Sprains. 

Immediately after the accident the part should be immersed 



270 The Dominion Cook Book. 

in a bath at the heat of loo*', after which leeches should 
be applied, and then a poultice of vinegar and bran, lukewarm, 
or bread crumbs and camphorated spirits of wine ; the follow- 
ing lotion, when applied in the early stage, after blood has 
been freely drawn by leeches, rarely fails in affording great 
relief; Gourland's extract, half an ounce ; tincture of opium, 
two drachms ; vinegar, half a pint ; camphor mixture, one pint 
and a half. Mix for a lotion, to be applied tepid by means 
of folded rags. After the inflammatory action has subsided 
one of the following Liniments should be used : 

966. (i) Soap liniment, one ounce; tincture of opium, two 
drachms ; camphorated spirits, two drachms. Mix for a lini 
ment, and rub in night and morning. 

967. (2) Camphorated spirits of wine, half an ounce ; caja- 
put oil and laudanum, of each, two drachms ; olive oil, half an 
ounce. Mix for a liniment, and apply night and morning. 

968. (3) Olive oil and spirits of turpentine, of each half an 
ounce. Mix for a liniment, and use as above. 

969. (4) When weakness remains after a sprain, pumping 
cold water on the part every morning, aided by a bandage or 
laced stocking to support the part, will be the most effectual 
means of remedying it. 

970. For Sprained Anicle — Bathe the ankle frequently 
with strong cold salt and water; sit with the foot elevated, keepin,^ 
it cool. Diet, and take daily cooling drinks or medicine. 
bind on loosely, and as often as dry, first twenty-four hours, 
cotton batting, spread with beaten egg-whites ; after that, 
morning and night. 

971. To Bind a Sprained Ankle— Put the end of the 

bandage upon the instep ; then take it round and bring it over 
the same part again, and then round the foot two or three 
times ; finish off with a turn or two round the leg above the 
ankle. 

972. Sprained Wrist— Begin by passing the bandage 
round the hand, across and across, like the figure eight ; leave 
out the thumb, and finish with a turn or two round the wrist. 
Apply arnica tincture. 



The Doctor. 271 



973. Treatment of a Frozen Person. 

Chelius, a German authority, gives the following advice for 
restoring a frozen person : He should be brought into a cold 
room, and after having been undressed, covered up with snow 
or with cloth in ice-cold water, or he may be laid in cold water 
so deeply, that his mouth and nose only are free. When the 
body is somewhat thawed, there is commonly a sort of icy 
crust formed around it ; the patient must then be removed, 
and the body washed with cold water mixed with a little wine 
or brandy ; when the limbs lose their stiffness, and the frozen 
person shows signs of life, he should be carefully dried, and 
put into a cold bed in a cold room : scents and remedies which 
excite sneezing, are to be put to his nose ; air to be carefully 
blown into the lungs, if natural breathing does not come on ; 
clysters of warm water with camphorated vinegar thrown up ; 
the throat tickled with a feather, and cold water dashed upon 
the pit of the stomach. He must be brought by degrees into 
rather warmer air, and mild perspirants, as elder and balm tea 
(or weak common tea) with Minderin's spirit, warm wine and 
the like, may be given to promote gentle perspiration. 

974. Bruises. 

In slight bruises, and those that are not likely to be followed 
by inflammation, nothing more is usually required than to 
bathe the part with spirit, as Eau-de-Cologne, brandy, etc., 
mixed with an equal proportion of vinegar and water. 

975. In more severe cases, and where the accident is near 
an important part, as the eye, or any of the joints, it becomes a 
desirable object to prevent the approach of inflammation. For 
this purpose leeches must be employed, repeating them accord- 
ing to circumstances. 

976. In the last stage of a bruise, where there is merely a 
want of tone in the parts, and swelling from the effused blood, 
etc., friction should be employed, either simply, or with any 
common liniment. Wearing a bandage — pumping cold water 
on the part, succeeded by warm friction — a saturated solution 
of common salt in water, have each been found successful. 
The roots of briony and Solomon's seal, bruised and applied 
as a poultice, are highly useful in hastening the disappearance 
of the^ discoloration caused by the bruises. 



272 The Dominion Cook Book. 

977. Accidents from Edge Tools, Hard Bodies, &c. 

In all recent wounds, the first consideration is to remove 
foreign bodies, such as pieces of glass, spUnters of wood, pieces 
of stone, earth, or any other substance that may have been 
introduced by the violence of the act which caused the wound. 

Where there is much loss of blood, an attempt should be 
made to stop it with dry lint, and compression above the part 
wounded, if the blood be. of a florid color, and below, if of a 
dark color. In proportion to the importance of the part 
wounded, will be the degree of the discharge of blood, and the 
subsequent tendency to inflammation and its consequences. 

978. Substances in the Eye. 

A substance getting in the eye may either lie disengaged 
on its surface, or, having penetrated the external coat; may 
there retnain fixed. In the former case it is easily removed by 
a camel-hair pencil or a piece of paper rolled into the size of a 
crow quill with the end softened in the mouth. 

979. Sometimes the substance sticks in the corner, when, 
if it cannot be removed with a probe or fine forceps, the point 
of a lancet should be carefully passed under it so as to lift it 
out. 

980. If the removal cannot be effected without consider- 
able difficulty, it is better to leave it to be detached by ulcera- 
tion, taking every precaution to keep off undue inflammation, 
by avoiding a strong light, fomenting with warm water, etc. 

981. To remove fine particles of gravel, lime, etc., the eye 
should be syringed with luke-warm water till free from them. 
Be particular not to worry the eye under the impression that the 
substance is still there, which the enlargement of some of the 
minute vessels makes the patient believe to be actually the 
case 

982. Substances in the Ear. 

983. Hard substances, such as peas, bits of slate pencil, 
beads, etc., occasionally get lodged in the passage of the ex- 
ternal ear. If the substance be within sight, and can be grasped 
readily with a small pair of forceps, that will be the best way 
to extract it ; but force must not on any account be used. 

984. But the best and safest plan is to inject luke-warm 
water rather forcibly into the ear by means of a syringe, one 



The Doctor. 273 



that will hold at least two ounces. This will be found rarely 
to fail, the water passing beyond the substance, and being 
there confined by the membrane, called the tympanum., forces 
the obstruction outwards. 

985. Should the substance have swelled, or the ear have 
become swollen, a little sweet oil must be poured into the ear 
and left there till the next day, when syringing may be used. 

986. Glass beads and similar substances may be extract- 
ed by means of a probe, dipped into some appropriate cement, 
introduced into the ear, and kept in contact with the body to 
be removed, for a few minutes till it has become set. 

987. Substances in the Throat. 

988. A fish-bone, or pin, being lodged in the throat, may 
sometimes be readily got rid of by exciting vomiting through 
tickling the back-part of the throat. 

989. Another mode is to make the patient swallow a 
good mouthful of bread-crumb. 

990. Another expedient is to introduce a large goose- 
quill down the throat, and then twirl it round, by this means 
the substance may be disengaged, and so pass down intc the 
stomach. 

991. A plentiful draught of water will sometimes be suffi- 
::ient, when the substance is merely engaged in the folds of the 
gullet. We would, however, particularly recommend in this 
case the white of an egg, and, if necessary, a second. 

992. Diseases of Infants. 

The most frequent of these are — i, disorders of the stomach ; 
2, disorders of the bowels ; 3, exhaustion ; 4, febrile affections ; 
S, exanthematous diseases, or those which are attended with 
eruptions of the skin j 6, affections of the head ; 7, diseases of 
the thorax, or chest ; 8, affections of the abdomen, or belly. 

Disorders of the stomach generally depend on improper 
diet ; or they may be secondary, and the effects of a disordered 
or confined state of the bowels. They are often detected by 
acid or foetid eructations and breath, or by the unusually ire- 
quent regurgitation or vomiting of food. 

Disorders of the bowels can never be mistaken or overlooked 
z8 



2 74 The Dominion Cook Book. 

by an attentive nurse, the evacuations in their number and 
appearance being the perfect index to these disorders. 

It must never be forgotten that whenever the system has 
been exposed to sources of exhaustion, this condition may be- 
come, in its turn, the source of various morbid affections which 
are apt to be ascribed to other causes, and treated by imprbper, 
and therefore dangerous, measures. If the infant has had 
diarrhoea, or if, without this, its cheeks be pale and cool ; and 
if, under these circumstances, it be taken with symptoms of 
affection of the head, do not fail to remember that this affec- 
tion may be the result of exhaustion. This important subject 
seems to have been generally misunderstood. 

Fever is sooner detected. In every such case it is advisable 
not to tamper nor delay, but to send for the medical man, and 
watch the little patient with redoubled care and attention. 

Especially examine the skin, hour after hour, for eruptions. 
It may be measles or scarlatina, etc. It will be especially de- 
sirable to detect these eruptions early, and to point them out 
to the physician. Above all things, let not a contracted brow, 
an unusual state of the temper or manner, unusual drowsiness 
or wakefulness, or starting, and especially unusual vomiting, 
escape you. 

Be alive to any acceleration, or labor, or shortness of the 
breathing, or cough, or sneezing, or appearance of inflammation 
about the eyes or nostrils. These symptoms may portend 
inflammation within the chest, hooping-cough, measles. Pain 
of the body, with or without vomiting ; or diarrhoea, with or 
without a morbid state of the bowels, or of the discharges, 
ought also to excite immediate attention. One caution should 
be given on this subject : some of the most alarming and fatal 
affections of the bowels, like some affections of the head, are 
unattended by acute pain or tenderness ; their accession, on the 
contrary, is insidious, and it will require great attention to detect 
them early. 

Another view, and another mode of the classification of the 
diseases of infants, full of interest, full of admonition is — i, as 
they are sudden ; or 2, as they are insidious ; or 3, as they are, 
in the modes of accession, intermediate between these two 
extremes. 

Of the sudden affections, are fits of every kind, croup, and 
some kinds of pain, as that of colic ; of the second class are 



The Doctor. 975 



hydrocephalus, or water on the brain, and tubercles in the lungs 
or abdomen, constituting the two kinds of consumption. Fits, 
again, are cerebral, and arise from diseases within the head, or 
from irritation in the stomach and bowels, or from exhaustion •, 
or they are evidence of, and depend on, some malformation 01 
disease of the heart. 

Domestic treatment should never be trusted in such terrible 
aflfections as these, not a moment should be lost in sending foi 
the medical man. 

If anything may be done in the meantime, it is — i, in either 
of the two former cases to lance the gums ; 2, to evacuate the 
bowels by the warm water injection, made more active by tiie 
addition of Brown Sugar ; 3, and then to administer the wami 
bath. An important point, never to be forgotten in the hurrj- 
of these cases, is to reserve the evacuations for inspection, 
otherwise the- physician will be deprived of a very important 
source of judgment. 

In case of fits arising plainly from exhaustion, there need 
be no hesitation in giving five drops of sal volatile in water, 
light nourishment may be added ; the feet must be fomented 
and the recumbent posture preserved. 

In fits arising from an affection of the heart the symptom is 
urgent diiBculty of breatliing ; the child seems as if it would 
lose its breath and expire. In such a case, to do nothing is the 
best course ; all self-possession must be summoned, and the 
infant kept perfectly quiet. Every change of posture, every 
effort, is attended with danger. 

Sometimes the attacks assume the character of croup ; 
there is a crowing cough, and breathing ; or there is a difficulty 
of breathing, and then a crowing inspiration. The former case 
is generally croup ; the latter is, in reality, a fit dependent on 
the morbid condition of the brain or spinal marrow, although 
it takes the appearance of an affection of the organs of respira- 
tion. 

In either case it is well to clear the bowels by means of the 
slow injection of from a quarter to half a pint of warm water, 
with or without brown sugar ; indeed, this is the most gener- 
ally and promptly useful of all our remedies in infantile dis- 
eases. To this the warm bath may always be added, if admin- 
istered with due caution. For instance, it should not be 
continued so as to induce much flushing or paleness of the 
countenance. 



276 The Dominion Cook Book. 

99^. Measles. 

Measles commences with the ordinary symptoms of fever. 
The attack is almost invariably attended with inflammation of 
the mucous membrane lining the air passages ; the eyes are 
red and watery ; there is defluxion from the nostrils, hoarse- 
ness, and cough. The eruption commonly appears on the 
fourth day, at first about the head and neck, then the trunk 
and arms, and finally reaching the lower extremities ; it takes 
two or three days to complete its course, and when it reaches 
the feet and legs has often begun to disappear from the face. 
All ages are liable to it. When the eruption is fully out, the 
cough, at first dry and troublesome, generally becomes softer 
and less frequent, and at the end of six or seven days from the 
coming out of the first papules they have disappeared. When 
danger occurs, it is from, inflammation of the air passages. In 
all ordinary cases simple diet, the maintenance of an equable 
temperature, plenty of diluent drinks, attention should be paid 
to the bowels, as they should be kept gently open ; if a roasted 
apple or a little manna in the drink will not do this, give a 
mild saline aperient such as ipecacuanha wine and sweet 
spirits of nitre, i drachm ; of tartrate of potash, 4 drachms ; 
solution of acetate of ammonia, i ounce ; syrup of poppies, 2 
drachms ; cinnamon or dill water sufficient to make 4 ounces ; 
dose, a table or dessert spoonful three or four times a day. 
Where there is much heat of the skin, sponging with tepid 
vinegar and water will commonly relieve it, and also the itch- 
ing. On the third or fourth day after the subsidence of the 
eruption a little opening medicine should be given and care 
must be taken to protect the patient against change of weather, 
and to restore the strength by a nourishing diet. Attention 
should be paid to the cough, and the proper remedies given if 
required. Should the eruption suddenly disappear, then there 
is cause for alarm ; the patient should be directly put into a 
warm bath, and have warm diluent drinks ; if the pulse sinks 
rapidly, administer wine whey or weak brandy and water. 

994. Scarlet Fever. 

This fever is distinguished from other eruptive fevers by the 
fact of the eruption being an exanthema, an efflorescence, or a 
rash, these terms not being strictly applicable to vesicles and 
pustules. The disease sometimes commences with a chill, and 



The Doctor. 277 



in most cases vomiting is a primary symptom, especially in 
children. Ihe fever which at once occurs is usually intense, 
the auxiliary temperature often rising to 105°, or even higher. 
The surface of the body often gives to the touch a burning sen- 
sation. The rash appears in about twenty-four hours after the 
date of the invasion, and with few exceptions breaks out first 
on the face and neck. The color of the rash is scarlet, whence 
the name. The skin is somewhat swollen and the rash occa- 
sions. a burning sensation, with in some cases intense itching. 
Generally the eruption takes place in the throat, and the tonsils 
are more or less swollen. The cutaneous eruption is pro- 
longed from four to six days. Then follows the stage of scal- 
ing, and in some instances the cuticle of the hands may be 
stripped off like a glove. In favorable cases the duration of 
this stage may be reckoned to be five or six days, when conval- 
escence is established. In other cases it is extreniely severe 
and may prove fatal within a few days or even hours. Scarlet 
fever is highly contagious, and the infectious material remains 
for a long time in garments, etc. Children are more suscep 
tible than adults. The treatment in mild cases is very simple. 
Active medication is not indicated. It suffices to diminish the 
animal heat by sponging the body and giving cooling drinks, 
observing proper hygienic precautions. Smearing the surface 
of the limbs with fat bacon allays the itching, which is often 
very distressing. Should the symptoms show failure of the 
vital powers, supporting measures of treatment (alcoholic 
stimulants and alimentation) are indicated. Great care must 
be taken to keep the patient warm right through the disease, 
as aflfections of the kidneys often follow cases of scarlet fever. 
It is important to isolate the patient and attendant from the 
healthy. Remove all curtains and carpets, and clothing not 
actually in use from the sick chamber. On removing the 
patient's linen or bed-clothes, throw them into water and so 
convey to the wash. Chloride of lime should be set about the 
room in plates. When the patient can be removed from the 
room, scrub the room with chloride of lime in the water. It 
is wise to keep the patient in bed for three weeks. Should the 
eruption be slow in appearing, sponge the body with cold vine- 
gar and water, wrap in a blanket and keep tlie patient warm. 
Should the throat be sore, keep hot bran poultice constantly 
applied. If the fever runs high in the first stage, and there is 



278 The Dominion Cook Book. 

great inclination to vomit (before sponging), it is a good plan 
to give an emetic of equal proportions of antimonial and ipe- 
cacuanha wine ; dose, a teaspoonful to a tablespoonful, accord- 
ing to age. 

995. Hooping Ooush, 

This well-known disease is chiefly, but not wholly, confined 
to the stages of infancy, and it occurs but once in a life-time. 
It may be described as spasmodic catarrh, and its severity 
varies greatly ; sometimes being so mild as to be scarcely 
known from a common cough, at others, exhibiting the most 
distressing symptoms, and frequently causing death by its vio- 
lent and exhausting paroxysms. 

The first symptoms of this cougti are those of an ordinary 
cold ; there is probably restlessness and slight fever, with irri- 
tation in the bronchial passages; this goes on gradually 
increasing in intensity for a week or ten days, and then begins 
to assume the spasmodic character ; at first the paroxysms are 
slight, and of short duration, with a scarcely perceptible 
" hoop," but soon they become more frequent and severe ; a 
succession of violent expulsive coughs is followed by a long- 
drawn inspiration, in the course of which the peculiar sound 
which gives a name to the disease is emitted ; again come the 
coughs, and again the inspiration, following each other in 
quick succession, until the sufferer, whose starting eyes, livid 
face, swollen veins, and clutching hands, attest the violence of 
the struggle for breath, is relieved by an expectoration of 
phlegm resembling the white of an egg, or by vomiting. When 
the paroxysm is over, the child generally resumes its play, or 
other occupation, and frequently complains of being hungry. 
As the disease proceeds, the matter expectorated becomes 
thicker, and is more easily got rid of, and this is a sign of favor- 
able progress : the spasmodic paroxysms become less frequent 
and violent, and gradually cease altogether ; but the changes 
here indicated may extend over a month or six months, accord- 
ing to circumstances, the season of the year having much 
influence in hastening or retarding them, summer being, of 
course, the most favorable time. It is a common impression 
that, at whatever time of year an attack of Hooping Cough 
commences, it will not end until May ; this is simply because 
of the change in the weather which generally takes place in or 



The Doctor. 279 



about the course of that month. With a strong, healthy child 
(when proper care is taken), there is little to apprehend from 
this disease, provided it be not complicated with others, such 
as inflammation of the lungs, or any head affection producing 
convulsions ; it then proves a most dangerous malady, and is 
fatal to many. With children of a full habit, the fits of cough- 
ing often cause bleeding at the nose, but this should not be 
viewed with alarm, as it relieves the vessels of the brain, and 
is likely to prevent worse consequences. 

To weakly children Hooping Cough is a very serious malady 
— to all it is frequently a very sore trial, but to them it is 
especially so : therefore great care should be taken not to 
expose them to the danger of catching it ; that it is contagious 
there can be no doubt, and although some parents think lightly 
of it, and imagining their children must have it, at one time or 
another, deem that it matters little when, and therefore take 
no pains to protect them against it, yet we would impress 
upon all our readers, who may have tlie care of infants, that a 
heavy responsibility lies at their door. It is by no means cer- 
tain that a child will have this disease ; we have known many 
persons who have reached a good old age and never contracted 
it ; and it is folly and wickedness needlessly to expose those 
placed under our care to a certain danger. 

Like fever. Hooping Cough has a course to run, which no 
remedies, with which we are at present acquainted, will 
shorten ; the severity of the symptoms may be somewhat miti- 
gated, and we may, by watching the course of the disease, and 
by use of the proper means, often prevent those complications 
which render it dangerous, and this brings us to the considera- 
tion of the proper mode of 

Treatment. — The first effort should be directed to check any 
tendency to inflammation which may show itself; to palliate 
urgent symptoms, and stop the spasm which is so distressing a 
feature of the case. To this end, the diet must be of the sim- 
plest kind, consisting for the most part of milk and farinaceous 
puddings ; if animal food, it must not be solid, but in the form 
of Broth, or Beef-tea; roasted Apples are good; and, for 
drinks, Milk and Water, Barley-water, Weak Tea, or Whey. 

Care must be taken to keep the bowels open with some 
gentle aperient, such as Rhubarb and Magnesia, with now and 
then a grain of Calomel or Compound Julep Powder, if some- 



28o The Dominion Cook Book. 

thing stronger is required. An emetic should be given about 
twice a week, to get rid of the phlegm — it may be Ipecacuanha 
Wine or the Powder. To relieve the cough, the following 
mixture will be found effective : —Ipecacuanha Powder, lo 
grains ; Bicarbonate of Potash, i drachm ; Liquor of Acetate 
of Ammonia, 2 ounces ; Essence of Cinnamon, 8 drops ; 
Water, 6^ ounces ; Dose, a tablespoonful about every four 
hours. 

For night restlessness, 2 or 3 grains of Dover's Powders, 
taken at bed-time, are good; this is the dose for a child of three 
years of age. Mustard poultices to the throat, the chest, and be- 
tween the shoulders, are often found beneficial. Roaches 
Embrocation is a favorite application, and a very good one ; it 
is composed as follows : — Oil of Amber and of Cloves, of each 
J^ an ounce ; Oil of Olives, i ounce ; a little Laudanum is, 
perhaps, an improvement. This may be rubbed on the belly 
when it is sore from coughing. Difficulty of breathing may be 
sometimes relieved by the vapor of Ether or Turpentine dif- 
fused through the apartment. In the latter stages of the dis- 
ease, tonics are generally advisable. Steel Wine, about 20 
drops, with 2 grains of Sesquicarbonate of Ammonia, and 5 
drops of Tincture of Conium, in a tablespoonful of Cinnamon 
Water, sweetened with Syrup, is a good form ; but a change of 
air, with a return to a generous diet, are the most effectual 
means of restoration to health and strength. 

995. Diarrhoea— (Greek reo, to flow). 

Looseness of the bowels, sometimes called Flux. This is 
a very common disorder, arising from a variety of causes, fore- 
most among which may be mentioned suppressed perspiration, 
a sudden chill or cold applied to the body, acid fruits, or any 
indigestible food, oily or putrid substances, deficiency of bile, 
increased secretion of mucus, worms, strong purgative medi- 
cines, gout or rheumatism turned inwards, etc. Hence diarrhoea 
may be distinguished as bilious, mucous, lienitery (where the 
food passes unchanged), ecsliac (where it passes off in a white 
liquid state, like chyle), and verminose, produced by worms. 

The symptoms are frequent and copious discharges of 
feculent matter, accompanied usually with griping and flatu- 
lency ; there is weight and uneasiness in the lower belly which 
is relieved for a time on the discharge taking place ; there is 



The Doctor. 281 



nausea, often vomiting ; a pale countenance, sometimes sallow ; 
a bitter taste in the mouth, with thirst and dryness of the 
throat ; the tongue is furred and yellow, indicating bile in the 
alimentary canal ; the skin is dry and harsh, and if the disease 
is not checked great emaciation ensues. 

The treatment must depend in some degree on the cause ; 
the removal of the exciting matter, by means of an emetic, or 
aperient medicines, will, however, be a safe proceeding at first ; 
if the diarrhoea be caused by obstructed perspiration or expos- 
ure to cold, nauseating doses of Antimonial, or Ipecacuanha 
Wine may be given every three or four hours, the feet put into 
a warm bath, and the patient be well covered up in bed. When 
the case is obstinate, resort may be had to the vapour bath, 
making a free use of diluents and demulcents. Where there 
is acidity of the stomach, denoted by griping pains and 
flatulency, take Chalk Mixture, Aromatic Confection, and 
other anti-acid absorbents, or alkalies, such as Carbonate of 
Potash, with Spirits of Ammonia and Tincture of Opium, or 
some other anodyne ; if from putrid or otherwise unwholesome 
food, the proper course, after the removal of the oflfending 
matter, is to give absorbents, in combination with Opium, or 
if these fail, acid and an anodyne; the following is an 
efBcacious formula: Diluted Sulphuric Acid, two drachms; 
Tincture of Opium, half a drachm; Water, six ounces ; take a 
tablespoonful every two hours. When the looseness proceeds 
from acrid or poisonous substances, warm diluent drinks should 
be freely administered, to keep up vomiting previously excited 
by an emetic; for this purpose thin fat broth answers well; a 
purge of Castor Oil should also be given. The diarrhoea 
which often occurs in childhood during the teething, should 
not be suddenly checked, nor at all, unless it prevails to a hurt- 
ful extent ; if necessary to stop it, give first a dose of Mercury 
and Chalk, from two to four or six grains, according to age, and 
then powder of prepared Chalk, Cinnamon and Rhubarb, about 
two grains of each every four hours. Diarrhoea sometimes 
attacks pregnant women, and, in this case, its progress ought 
to be arrested as quickly as possible. In all cases of looseness 
of the bowels it is best to avoid hot thin drinks, unless given 
for a specific purpose ; the food, too, should be simple and easy 
of digestion ; Milk with Cinnamon boiled in it, thickened with 
Rice or Arrowroot, is good ; vegetables, salt meat, suet puddings 



The Dominion Cook Book. 



and pies are not; if there is much exhaustion, a little cool 
I5randy-and-Water may be now and then taken. When diarrhoea 
is stopped, astringent tonics, with aromatics, should be given 
to restore the tone of the stomach. 

This disease may be distinguished from Dysentery^ by being 
unattended by either inflammation, fever, contagion, or that con- 
stant inclination to go to stool without a discharge, which is 
common in the latter disease, in which the matter voided is 
sanguineous and putrid, while that in diarrhoea is simply fecu- 
lent and alimentary. — The Family Doctor. 

996. Diphtheria. 

In diphtheria the false membrane accompanying inflamma- 
tion appears almost invariably in the frauces or throat, and in 
many cases it is limited to this situation. It may extend more 
or less over the mucus surface within the mouth and nostrils. 
It is not infrequently produced within the windpipe, giving 
rise to all the symptoms of true croup, and generally proving 
fatal. The disease rarely occurs except as an epidemic. Per- 
sons between three and twelve years of age are most apt to 
be affected with it, but no period of life is exempt from a lia- 
bility to it. Frequent vomiting, diarrhoea, hemorrhage from 
the nostrils or elsewhere, convulsions, delirium and coma are 
symptoms which denote great danger. The chief objects in the 
treatment are to palliate the symptoms and support the powers 
of life by the judicious employment of tonic remedies conjoined 
with alimentation and alcoholic stimulants. The latter in 
some cases are given in large quantity without inducing their 
excitant effects, and there is reason to believe that they are 
sometimes the means of saving life. The following treatment 
has been tried in our own family, and has been most success- 
ful: 

997. The Sulphur treatment of diphtheria. — An eminent 
physician is said to have worked great wonders in treating 
diphtheria with sulphur during the recent prevalence of aa 
epidemic. A person who accompanied him says : " He put a 
teaspoonful of flour of brimstone into a wine glass of water, 
and stirred it with his finger instead of a spoon, as sulphur 
does not readily amalgamate with water. When the sulphur 
was well mixed he gave it as a gargle, and in ten minutes the 
patient was out of danger. Instead of spitting out the gargle, 



The Doctor. 283 



he recommended the swallowing of it. In extreme cases in 
which he had been called just in the nick of time, when the 
fungus was too nearly closing to allow the gargle, he blew the 
sulphur through a quill into the throat, and, if the fungus had 
shrunk to allow of it, then the gargling. He never lost a pa- 
tient from diphtheria. If a patient cannot gargle, take a live 
coal, put it on a shovel, and sprinkle a spoonful or two of flour 
of brimstone at a time upon it : let the sufferer inhale it, hold- 
ing the head over it, and the fungus will die. If plentifully 
used, the whole room may be filled almost to suffocation, and 
the patient can walk about in it, inhaling the fumes, with doors 
and windows closed." 

998. Typhoid Fever. 
This fever is called by Germans abdominal typhus, and by 
English and American writers, for the same reason, enteric 
fever. This characteristic, intestinal affection, is one of the 
essential points of distinction between typhoid and typhus 
fever. Typhoid fever is undoubtedly communicable, yet it is 
rarely communicated to those who are brought into contact 
with cases of it, namely, physicians, nurses, and fellow patients 
in hospital wards ; and it occurs when it is quite impossible to 
attribute it to a contagion. It is more apt to prevail in 
the autumnal months than at other seasons. The early 
symptoms are chilly sensations, pain in the head, loins and 
limbs, lassitude and looseness of the bowels. During the 
course of the fever stupor, as in cases of typhus, is more or 
less marked. In the majority of cases there is a characteristic 
eruption, usually confined to the trunk, but sometimes extend- 
ing to the limbs. The duration of the fever is longer than that 
of typhus, the average, dating from the time of taking to the 
bed, being about sixteen days in the cases which end in 
recovery ; it is somewhat less in the fatal cases. Milk is pre- 
eminently the appropriate article of diet, and alcoholic stimu- 
lants are sometimes tolerated in very large quantities without 
any of the excitant or intoxicating effects which they would 
produce in health. Favourable hygienic conditions are impor- 
tant, such as free ventilation, a proper temperature and cleanli- 
ness. 

999. Fits. 

Fainting fits are sometimes dangerous, at other times harm- 
Jess ; should heart disease be the cause, the danger is great. 



284 The Dominion Cook Book. 

If from some slight cause, such as sight of blood, fright, ex- 
cessive heat, etc., there is no cause for alarm. It would be 
superfluous to enumerate the symptoms. The treatment : First, 
lay the patient upon his back with his head level with the feet, 
loosen all garments, dash cold water over the face ; sprinkle 
vinegar and water over the hands and about the mouth, apply 
smelling salts to the nose, and when the patient has recovered 
a little, give twenty drops of sal volatile in water. 

1000. Apoplexy. 

These fits generally occur in stout, short-necked people- 
Symptoms : sparks before the eyes, giddiness, confusion of ideas; 
wiien the patient falls down insensible, the body is paralyzed, 
the face and head is flushed and hot, the eyes fixed, the breath- 
ing loud. Put the patient to bed, immediately raise the head, 
remove everything from the neck, bleed freely from the arm, 
if there is no lancet at hand use a penknife, put warm mustard 
poultices to the soles of the feet and the insides of the thighs, 
the bowels should be freely opened, take two drops of castor 
oil and mix with eight grains of calomel, put this as far back 
on the tongue as possible, the warmth of the throat will cause 
the oil to melt quickly, and so be absorbed into the stomach. 
If the blood vessels about the head are much swollen put eight 
leeches on the temple opposite the paralyzed side. Send for 
surgeon at once. 

looi. Epilepsy. 

These fits generally attack young persons. Symptoms : 
Palpitations, pain in the head, but, as a rule, the patient falls 
down suddenly without warning. The eyes are distorted, foam- 
ing at the mouth, the fingers tightly clenched and the body 
much agitated ; when the fit is over the patient feels drowsy 
and faint. Keep the patient flat on his back, slightly raise the 
head, loosen all garments round the neck, dash cold water 
upon the face, place a piece of wood between the teeth to 
prevent the patient hurting his tongue. Give bromide of 
sodium in twenty-grain doses, in water, twice or three times a 
day. 

1002. Hysteria. 

A nervous affection chiefly seen in females, and generally 
connected with uterine irregularities ; it is sometimes called 
Clavus or Globus Histericus, and is commonly known as 



The Doctor. 285 



Hysterics. As this is a very common affection, within the pro- 
vince of domestic treatment, it is desirable that we should devote 
some little space to a consideration of it. It is a curious circum- 
stance connected with this affection that it stimulates almost 
every disease to which humanity is liable. A patient suffering 
under Hysteria may have a rough, hoarse, croupy cough, loss 
of voice, hiccup, pain in the left side, fluttering of the heart, 
running at the eyes and nose, spasmodic contractions and con- 
vulsive movements of various kinds, vomiting, copious evacua- 
tions, delirium, and all kinds of violent and unmanageable 
symptoms, which subside as soon as the hysterical paroxysm 
does. All this shows that the whole nervous system is pecu- 
liarly influenced by the affection. An attack generally comes 
on with a sensation of choking ; it seems as if a ball were rising 
in the throat and threatening to stop the passage of the airj 
then the trunk and limbs become strongly convulsed, so much 
so that an apparently feeble woman will require three or four 
strong persons to restrain her from injuring herself; then 
follows the hysterical sobbing and crying, with alternate fits of 
laughter; generally the head is thrown back, the face flushed, 
the eyelids closed and tremulous ; the nostrils distended, and 
the mouth firmly shut ; there is a strong movement in the 
throat, which is projected forward, and a wild throwing about 
of the arms and hands, with sometimes a tearing of the hair, 
rending of the clothes, catching at the throat, and attempts to 
bite those who impose the necessary restraint. After awhile 
the deep and irregular breathing, the obvious palpitation of the 
heart, with the symptoms above enumerated will cease ; there 
will be an expulsion of wind upwards, and the patient will sink 
down, sobbing and sighing, to remain tranquil for a shorter or 
longer period, at the end of which she may again start up and 
be as violent as ever ; or she may go off into a calm sleep, from 
which she will probably awake quite recovered. A fit of 
Hysteria may last for a few minutes only, or for several hours, 
or even days. Persons have died under such an infliction. It 
may generally be distinguished from epilepsy by the absence 
of foaming at the mouth, which is nearly always present in that 
disease, and also by the peculiar twinkling of the eyelids, which 
is a distinguishing symptom of great value, and a sign of safety. 
In epilepsy there is laborious or suspended respiration, dark 
livid complexion, a protruding and bleeding tongue ; rolling or 



286 The Dominion Cook Book. 

staring and projected eyeballs, and a frightful expression of 
countenance. Not so in Hysteria ; the cheeks are usually red, 
and the eyes, if not hidden by the closed eyelids, are bright and 
at rest ; the sobbing, sighing, short cries, and laughter, too, are 
characteristic of the latter affection. We point out these 
distinctions so that no unnecessary alarm may be felt during a fit 
of Hysteria, which is seldom attended with ultimate danger either 
to mind or body, although the symptoms are sufficiently dis- 
tressing to cause anxiety. 

Treatment. — The first efforts must be directed to prevent 
the patient, if violent, from injuring herself; but this should 
not be done in a rude, rough manner. It is, perhaps, best to 
confine her hands by wrapping tightly round her a sheet or 
blanket. The dress should be loosened, especially round the 
throat, and the face freely exposed to fresh air, and both that 
and the head well washed with cold water ; if she can and will 
swallow, an ounce of camphor mixture, with a teaspoonful of 
Ether, Sal-volatile, tincture of Assafoetida, or Valerian, may be 
administered ; strong Liquid Ammonia may be applied to the 
nostrils ; and if the fit is of long duration, an enema injected, 
consisting of Spirits of Turpentine, Castor Oil, and Tincture of 
Assafoetida, of each half an ounce, in half a pint of gruel. 
What is required is a strong stimulus to the nervous system ; 
therefore, dashing cold water on the face, and hot applications 
to the spine, are likely to be of service. Sir A. Carlisle recom- 
mends that a polished piece of steel, held in boiling water for a 
minute or two, be passed down the back over a silk handker- 
chief. This has been found to prevent the recurrence of the 
paroxysm, which has before been periodic ; by which it would 
seem that the patient has some power of controlling the symp- 
toms when a sufficiently strong stimulus is applied to enable or 
induce her to exercise it. 

During the intermission or attacks of Hysteria, attention 
should be devoted to any constitutional or organic defects, from 
which they are likely to arise ; the patient's mind should be 
kept as tranquil as possible, and a tendency to all irregular 
habits or excesses held in check ; if plethoric, there should be 
spare diet, and perhaps leeching ; if scrofulous and weakly, 
good nourishing food and tonic medicines, particularly some 
form of iron, the shower bath, regular exercise, cheerful com- 
pany ; antispamodics, and remedies which have a gently stim- 



The Doctor. 287 



ulating effect, will frequently relieve the sleeplessness complained 
of by hysterical patients better than opiates and other narcotics. 
In such cases Dr. Graves recommends pills composed of a 
grain of musk and two or three grains of Assafoetida, to be 
taken two or three times a day. A change in the mode of life, 
involving entering upon new cares and duties, will frequently 
effect a complete cure of Hysteria, which, it has been observed, 
seldom attacks women of a vigorous mind. It is extremely de- 
sirable that, in the education of young females, the bodily 
powers should be well exercised and developed. Too little 
attention is paid to this generally, and the consequence is that 
a great many of our young women are weak and nervous, and 
frequently subject to hysterical affections. 

1003, Quinsy. 

Though called tonsillites, the inflammation is rarely confined 
to the tonsils, but involves the pharynx, the soft palate and the 
uvula and sometimes extends to the root of the tongue. It 
commences with a feeling of dryness and discomfort about the 
throat and with pain in swallowing. The mucous membrane 
lining the throat is reddened, and the tonsils are more or less 
swollen. As the disease advances, the inflamed parts, at first 
dry, because covered with vicid mucous, and the distress of 
the patient is greatly enhanced by the effort which he is 
tempted to make to remove this secretion. In many cases 
suppuration occurs in one or both tonsils ; when this takes 
place those organs are often enormously swollen, and, together 
with the obstruction of the inflamed palate, may render breath- 
ing difficult and painful. In such cases the febrile reaction is 
strongly marked, the skin being hot and the pulse full and 
frequent, the patient is unable to take nourishment, and the 
voice becomes thick and characteristic of the disease. The 
disease, though painful, is attended with little danger, but the 
inflammation may by extension involve the larynx and thus 
prove fatal. The disease requires but little treatment. Where 
the mucous membrane alone is involved, a stringent gargle, re- 
peated five or six times a day, usually gives relief The food 
should be liquid — soups, beef tea, milk, etc. — and should be 
swallowed in large mouthfuls, which give less pain than smaller 
ones. If an abscess forms in either or both tonsils the greatest 
relief is obtained from frequent inhalations of warm steam, 



288 The Dominion Cook Book. 

which acts as a poultice to the inflamed parts. As soon as the 
location of the abscess can be determined, it should be openedi 
after which there is usually no further trouble. 

1004. An Excellent Remedy for a Cold. 

Take a large teacupful of linseed, two pennyworth of stick - 
liquorice, and a quarter of a pound of sun raisins. Put these 
into two quarts of soft water, and let it simmer over a slow fire 
till it is reduced to one ; then add to it a quarter of a pound of 
brown sugar-candy (pounded), a tablespoonful of old rum, and 
a tablespoonful of the best white-wine vinegar, or lemon-juice. 
Drink half a pint at going to bed, and take a little when the 
cough is troublesome. This receipt generally cures the worst 
of colds in two or three days, and if taken in time, may be said 
to be almost an infallible remedy. It is a most balsamic cor- 
dial for the lungs, without the opening qualities which en- 
danger fresh colds on going out. It has been known to cure 
colds that have been almost settled into consumption, in less 
than three weeks. The rum and vinegar are best to be added 
only to the quantity you are going immediately to take ; for if 
it is put into the whole it is apt to grow flat. 

1005. Colds (How to prevent). 

The Popular Science Monthly gives good advice in regard to 
the prevention of colds. The mistake is often made of not 
taking great care to put on extra wraps and coats when pre- 
paring for outdoor exercise. This is not at all necessary in 
robust persons. Sufficient heat to prevent all risk of chill is 
generated in the body by exercise. The care should be taken 
to retain sufficient clothing after exercise, and when at rest to 
prevent the heat passing out of the body. Indeed, persons 
very often catch chills from throwing off extra clothing after 
exercise, or from sitting about in garments the material of 
which is not adapted to prevent the radiation of heat from the 
body. 

1006. Cou£h. 

A convulsive effort of the lungs to get relief of phlegm or 
other matter ; it may be a symptom of Bronchitis, or Catarrh, 
or Croup, or Influenza, or Laryngitis, or Phthisis, or Pleurisy, 
or Pneumonia, or Relaxed Uvula, also Hooping Cough. 

We. can here lay down but a few general principles with re- 



The Doctor. 289 



gard to the treatment of simple cough without reference to the 
peculiar disease of which it may be symptomatic ; and first let 
us observe, that it may be either what is properly, as well as 
medically, termed dry or moist. In the former case. Opium 
and its preparations are advisable, in the latter they should not 
be used ; the irritation will be best allayed by Henbane or 
Hemlock, either the Tincture or Extract, with demulcents, as 
Barley Water, Linseed-Tea, etc., and Liquorice, either the Root 
boiled, or Extract ; it is well also to add from five to ten drops 
of Ipecacuanha Wine to each dose; inhalation also of the 
steam from boiling water will generally be found beneficial — 
and especially if some medicinal herb, such as Horehound or 
Coltsfoot, be infused in it. In moist coughs there should not 
be so much fluid taken, and the use of demulcents must be 
somewhat restricted. Opiates may be administered, but not 
too freely, either separately or in cough mixtures ; Paregoric 
Elixir, in which the Opium is combined with Benzoic Acid and 
Oil of Aniseed (expectorants), and Camphor (antispamodic), is 
perhaps the best form of administration ; a teaspoonful in a 
glass of water generally allays the irritation and frequent desire 
to cough which arises from it. In cases where there is diffi- 
culty of expectoration, some such mixture as this should be 
taken : compound Tincture of Camphor, four drachms ; Ipeca- 
cuanha Wine and Oxymel of Squills, of each two drachms; Mu- 
cilage of Acacia, one ounce ; water, four ounces, mix and take 
a tablespoonful when the cough is troublesome ; for old people, 
two drachms of Tincture of Benzoin, commonly called Friar's 
Balsam, may be added to the above ; and if there should be 
much fever, two drachms of Sweet Spirits of Nitre. For all 
kinds of cough counter irritants should be applied, such as 
blisters and warm plasters, rubbing in of stimulating ointments 
on the chest and between the shoulders; those parts also 
should be well protected by flannels next the skin, dressed 
hare skin and other contrivances of the kind. For coughs 
which are more particularly troublesome by night, it is best to 
give the Opium, Henbane, or Hemlock, as the case may be, at 
bedtime, in the shape of a pill ; of the extracts of either of 
the latter, five grains may be given ; of the first, one or two 
grains of the Gum, or a quarter of a grain of Morphine. A long 
experience of their efficacy among a large number of dispensary 
patients enables the author to recommend with confidence the 
»9 



290 The Dominion Cook Book. 

following pills : take of Compound Squill Pill, one drachm ; 
Ipecacuanha Powder and Extract of Hyoscyamus, of each, half 
a drachm ; mix and make into twenty-four pills, take one or 
two on going to rest. 

icx)7. Headache. 

Headache may arise from a variety of causes; consequently 
the preventive measures vary according to the nature of the 
attack. When it is of that kind which is dependent on rheu- 
matism, and which affects the muscles, extending often from the 
forehead to the back, and sometimes involving the temples, 
the patient should be as much as possible in the open air, and 
should use the shower bath every morning. When the form 
of headache is accompanied with tenderness of the scalp, and 
acute pain on pressure, indicating an affection of the immediate 
covering of the bones — besides exercise in the open air, the 
head should be shaved and washed twice a day, namely, morn- 
ing and evening, with cold water, and afterwards gently rubbed 
with a towel for ten or fifteen minutes. The residence should 
be in a dry, somewhat elevated situation ; and quietude of 
mind should be maintained. When the pain in the forehead 
and the back of the 'head is obtuse, and accompanied with a 
sensation of torpor and oppression ; and when this occurs in 
weak and irritable persons, besides the necessary medical 
treatment, which ought not to be neglected, all mental appli- 
cations should be suspended and cheerful society cultivated ; 
the diet should be moderate, and the utmost attention paid to 
the state of the bowels. Exercise and shower-baths are as 
essential in this as in the other varieties of the headache. 
Lastly, in what is usually termed sick headache, denoted by 
either acute or dull pain over the left temple, with some tender- 
ness of the part,' throbbing, and an incapacity at the time 
for any mental exertion, the whole arising generally from 
indigestion, or some error in diet previous to the occurrence 
of the headache, it is scarcely necessary to say that prudence 
in diet, both with respect to quantity and quality, should be 
observed. Long fasting, excess of wine or any stimulant, pro- 
tracted sedentary occupations, hurry of business and anxiety, 
should be known to be exciting causes, and, consequently, as 
far as possible, avoided by those predisposed to sick headaches ; 
in brief, the duty of the head and the feet should be 



The Doctor. 291 



equally balanced. Proper diet and exercise, cheerfulness of 
mind, and agreeable social intercourse, will do more to regulate 
the stomach and bowels, in those predisposed to this form 
of headache, than any plan of medical treatment which can be 
suggested. 

1008. Headache Sponged Awray. 

Nervous headache has often been called woman's curse. 
The hard day's shopping, the day when everything in the house- 
hold " went wrong," the afternoon spent in paying calls, or a 
day of ceaseless toil with the needle, — all these are apt to end in 
the state mentioned, to the great discomfort of husband and 
family, and still greater of the sufferer herself 

Bromides are the most common resort in such a case, but 
they soon lose their effect. A sponge and hot water will effect 
the best cure of all, if properly used. 

First, fasten the hair high on the head, to keep it as dry as 
possible, have the water just as hot as you can stand it, soak 
the sponge and place it at the back of the neck. Apply it also 
behind the ears, where centre most of the nerves and muscles 
of the head j and these will be found to soften and relax most 
deliciously. Often the pain will be relieved in a few minutes. 

Then, in the same manner, bathe face and temples, and 
when through give the face a dash of cold water. If you have 
an hour to spare afterward darken your room and lie down. 
You will be, more than apt to fall into a gentle slumber, ffom 
which to arise refreshed and strengthened, with all trace of 
nervousness gone. 

The face bath with hot water is far better than any cosmetic; 
it restores to the face color and smoothness of outline, and 
helps to keep away wrinkles. It quickens the circulation and 
keeps the pores open and the skin perfectly clean ; and if you are 
expecting to attend an evening party, after such a day of wear, 
and view with dismay the drawn lines of the face and eyes and 
the hollow looks of the latter, let me urge you to try my remedy 
— not neglecting the nap, if possible — and great will be the 
change thereafter in your appearance. The lines will be gone, 
and the look of distress ; the soft, healthful color will come 
again to the cheek and lip, and a restful and rested look return 
to the eyes, and you will be once more in condition to enjoy — 
and) better yet, to be enjoyed. 



292 The Dominion Cook Book. 

1009. Cephalic SnufF. 

Lundyfoot snufi and as-abaracca leaves, of each two ounces ; 
lavender flowers, two drachms ; essence of bergamot and oil of 
cloves, of each four drops. Grind the lavender with the snuff 
and leaves to a fine powder ; then add the perfume. Much 
recommended in headaches, dimness of sight, etc. 

loio. Bilious or Sick Headache. 

Headache is, in general, a symptom of indigestion, or de- 
ranged general health, or the consequence of a confined state of 
the bowels. The following alterative pill will be found a valu- 
able medicine : Take of calomel, ten grains ; emetic tartar, 
two, three, or four grains ; precipitated sulphuret of antimony, 
one scruple; guaiacum in powder, one drachm. Rub them 
well together in a mortar for ten minutes, then, with a little 
conserve of hips, make them into a mass, and divide it into 
twenty pills. JDose. — One pill is given every night, or every 
other night, for several weeks in succession. 

loii. Hiccough. 

This may usually be removed by the exhibition of warm 
carminatives, cordials, cold water, weak spirits, camphor julep, 
or spirits of sal-volatile. A sudden fright or surprise will often 
produce the like effect. An instance is recorded of a delicate 
young lady that was troubled with hiccough for some months, 
and who was reduced to a state of extreme debility from the 
loss of sleep occasioned thereby, who was cured by a fright, 
after medicines and topical applications had failed. A pinch 
of snuff, a glass of cold soda-water, or an ice cream will also 
frequently remove this complaint. 

1012. Cramp. 

When cramp occurs in the limbs, warm friction with the 
naked hand, or with the following stimulating : liniment, will 
generally be found to succeed in removing it : x 

The Liniment. — Take of water of ammonia, or of spirit of 
hartshorn, one ounce; olive oil, two ounces. -Shake them 
together till they unite. - 

When the stomach is affected, brandy, ether, laudanum, or 
tincture of ginger affords the speediest means of cure. The 
following draught may be taken with great advantage : Laud- 
anum, forty or fifty drops ; tincture of ginger, two drachms ; 



The Doctor. 293 



syrup of poppies, one drachm ; cinnamon or mint water, one 
ounce. Mix for a draught. To be repeated in an hour, if 
necessary. 

In severe cases, hot flannels, moistened with compound 
camphor liniment and turpentine, or a bladder nearly filled 
with hot water, at 100 deg. or 120 deg. Fahr., should be applied 
to the pit of the stomach ; bathing the feet in warm water, or 
applying a mustard poultice to them is frequently of great 
advantage. 

*#* The best preventatives, when the cause of cramp is con- 
stitutional, are warm tonics, such as the essence of ginger and 
camomile, Jamaica ginger in powder, etc., avoiding fermented 
liquors and green vegetables, especially for supper, ana wearing 
flannel next to the skin. 

1013. Neuralgia (Greek neuron, a Nerve, and algos. Pain). 

A painful affection of the nerves : when it occurs in those 
of tlie face, it is termed face-ague, or tic-doloreux ; when it 
affects the great nerve of the leg, it is called sciatica ; other parts, 
such as the fingers, the chest, the abdomen, etc., are also liable 
to this agonizing pain, one of the most severe and wearing to 
which the human frame is liable ; the exact nature of it is not 
very clear, that is to say, the origin of the disease, for although 
its immediate seat is a nerve, or set of nerves, yet there must 
be some originating cause. It can frequently be traced to 
some decay, or diseased growth of the bone about those parts 
through which the nerves pass ; and in some severe cases it 
has been found to depend upon the irritation caused by foreign 
bodies acting upon those highly sensitive organs. The only 
symptom of neuralgia generally, is a violent plunging and 
darting pain, which comes on in paroxysms j except in very 
severe and protracted cases, there is no outward redness nor 
swelling to mark the seat of the pain, neither is there usually 
constitutional derangement, other than that which may be 
caused by want of rest, and the extreme agony of the suffering 
while it lasts, which may be from one to two or three hours, or 
even more, but it is not commonly so long. Tenderness and 
swelling of the part sometimes occurs, where there has been a 
frequent recurrence and long continuance of the pain, which 
leaves the patient, in most cases, as suddenly as it comes on ; 
its periodic returns and remissions, and absence of inflamma- 



294 The Dominion Cook Book. 

tory symptoms, are distinctive marks of the disease. Among 
its exciting causes, we may mention exposure to damp and 
cold, especially if combined with malaria j and to these influ- 
ences a person with a debilitated constitution will be more sub- 
ject than another. Anxiety of mind will sometimes bring it on 
and so will a disordered state of the stomach, more particularly 
a state in which there is too much acid. 

As for treatment, that, of course, must depend upon the cause ; 
if it is a decayed tooth, which, by its exposure of the nerve to 
the action of the atmosphere, sets up this pain, it should be at 
once removed, as there will be little peace for the patient until 
there is ; if co existent with neuralgia there is a disordered 
stomach, suspicion should at once point thereto, and efforts 
should be made to correct the disorder there. If the patient is 
living in a moist, low situation, he should at once be removed 
to a higher level, and a dry, gravelly soil. Tonics, such as 
Quinine and Iron, should be given, and a tolerably generous 
diet, but without excess of any kind. In facial Neuralgia, 
blisters behind the ears, or at the back of the neck, have been 
found serviceable, and, if the course of the nerve which appears 
to be the seat of mischief can be traced, a Belladonna plaster 
or a piece of rag soaked in Laudanum and laid along it, will 
sometimes give relief ; so will hot fomentations of poppies and 
camomiles, or bran poultices sprinkled with turpentine. In 
very severe cases ^ of a grain of Morphine may be given to 
deaden the nervous sensibility, and induce sleep, which the 
patient is often deprived of at night, the pain coming on as 
soon as he gets warm in bed. 

An application of Chloroform on lint has sometimes proved 
very effectual in relieving severe Neuralgic pains, and so has 
an ointment composed of Lard . and Veratrine, in the propor- 
tion of six grains to the ounce. 

A mixture of Chloroform and Aconite has been recommended 
for facial Neuralgia, the form of preparation being two parts of 
Spirits of Wine, or Eau de Cologne, one of Chloroform, and 
one of Tincture of Aconite, to be applied to the gums of the 
side affected, by means of a finger covered with a piece of 
lint, or soft linen, and rubbed along them; the danger of drop- 
ping any into the mouth being thus avoided. When the pain 
is connected with some organic disease, as a decayed tooth, 
or chronic inflammation of the gums, or of the sockets or super- 



The Doctor. 295 



ficial necrosis of the bone, substitute Tincture of Iodine for 
the Spirit in the above formula. We would caution our readers 
strongly against the careless inhalation of Chloroform as a 
remedy for Neuralgia, which appears to be growing into a 
general practice ; several deaths have resulted from it, the 
practice being to pour a little on a pocket handkerchief, with- 
out much regard to quantity, and hold it to the mouth until the 
required insensibility is produced. This remedy should never 
be administered, except under the supervision of a medical 
adviser. People at all liable to this painful affection should be 
extremely careful not to expose themselves to wet or cold : 
above all to avoid draughts. A very slight cause will often 
bring it on where there is the slightest tendency to it. 

1014. Croup. 

Gn the first appearance of croup, administer a teaspoonful of 
the following mixture : — Ipecacuanha Wine, half an ounce ; 
tartaric emetic, one grain ; distilled water, half an ounce. Mix. 
Should be immediately given, and repeated every ten minutes, 
until it excites vomiting. After its operation the child should 
be put in a warm bath, for ten to fifteen minutes, and a dose 
of calomel and James' powder given. If relief be not 
obtained from these measures, the entire ihroat should be cov- 
ered with leeches, say eight or ten, and the bowels emptied by 
the following injection : — Take of common turpentine two 
drachms, beat it up with the yolk of an egg, and add by degrees 
half a pint of decoction of chamomile flowers, in which an 
ounce of glaubar salts have been dissolved ; strain it, and 
divide it into two equal parts, one of which is to be admin- 
istered night and morning. If the alarming symptoms are not 
checked in twelve hours, the warm bath is to be repeated, and 
calomel, in doses of from three to five grains, with three grains 
of Jamt s' powder in each, should be given every third hour. 

If a child recover from the attack of croup, every affection 
m{ the chest and lungs should be considered as important ; it 
should, therefore, be carefully guarded against cold, especially 
in damp weather, for which purpose the child should wear a 
chamois leather waistcoat next the skin, made to cover the 
neck and great attention be paid to the stomach and bowels. 
A child having been once attacked with croup is very licAle to its 
return from any slight exposure to cold. 



296 The Dominion Cook Book. 

1015. Treatment of Bunions. 

This consists in removing all pressure from the part. The 
formation of a bunion may in the beginning be prevented, but 
only in the beginning ; for when actually formed, it is scarcely 
possible ever to get rid of it, and it remains an everlasting 
plague. To prevent the formation of a bunion, it is necessary 
whenever or wherever a boot or shoe pinches, to have it eased 
at once, and so long as that part of the foot pinched remains 
tender, not to put on the offending shoe again. When a bun- 
ion has once completely formed, if the person wish to have 
any peace, and not to have it increase, he must have a last 
made to fit his foot, and have his shoe made upon it. And 
whenever the bunion inflames, and is painful, it must be bathed 
with warm water and poulticed at night. 

1016. Stye. 

The stye is strictly only a little boil which projects from the 
edge of the eyelid. It is of a dark red color, much inflamed, 
and occasionally a great deal more painful than might be 
expected, considering its small size. It usually disappears of 
itself, after a little time, especially if some purgative medicine 
be taken. 

If the stye be very painful and inflamed, a small warm poul- 
tice of linseed meal, or bread and milk, must be laid over it, 
and renewed every five or six hours, and the bowels freely 
acted upon by a purgative draught, such as the following : — 
Take of Epsom salts, half an ounce; best manna, two 
drachms ; infusion of senna, six drachms ; tincture of senna, two 
drachms; spearmint water, one ounce; distilled water, two 
ounces. Mix ; and take three, four, or five tablespoonfuls. 

When the stye appears ripe, an opening should be made into 
it with the point of a large needle, and afterwards a little of the 
following ointment may be smeared over it once or twice a day. 
Ointment. — Take of spermaceti, six drachms ; white wax, two 
drachms ; olive oil, three ounces. Melt them together over a 
slow fire, and stir them constantly until they are cold 

1017. Simple Remedies. 

A teaspoonful of lime-water will cure the worst case of 
colic. This is something every mother should know. 

A couple of figs eaten before breakfast are an excellent laxa- 
tive, especially for children. 



The Doctor, 297 



When suffering from overstrained and tired eyes, bathe 
them in hot water several times a day. 

For cankered throats, mix equal parts of powdered borax 
and sulphur, and blow a little into the throat thorough a quill. 

For a cough, boil one ounce of flaxseed in a pint of water, 
strain and add a little honey, one ounce of rock candy, and the 
juice of three lemons. Mix and boil well. Drink as hot as 
possible. 

For ivy poisoning, boil wood ashes enough to make a strong 
lye ; wash the poisoned parts in this, let it remain on a few 
minutes, and wash off in soft lukewarm water ; when dry anoint 
with vaseline. Repeat this process as the poison develops 
itself. One or two applications will effect a cure. 

Only a scratch ! and yet a scratch has often cost a life. 
A scratch should be carefully washed with a little Castile soap 
and warm water. It should never be touched by the finger 
nails. If there is any appearance of inflammation, a small 
bread-and-milk poultice, or the application of some medicated 
clay, will be the safest and best treatment. A sudden and 
decided change in the weather, or a poor condition of the 
blood, will often favor the scratch, and develop it as an agent 
for serious evil. 

1018. Oatmeal Drink (Recipe by the Jate Dr. Parkes). 

" The proportions are a quarter pound of oatmeal to two 
or three quarts of water, according to the heat of the day and 
the work and thirst ; it should be well boiled, and then an ounce 
or one and a half ounces of brown sugar added. If you find it 
thicker than you like, add three quarts of water. Before drink- 
ing it shake up the oatmeal well through the liquid. In sum- 
mer drink the cold ; in winter hot. . You will find it not only 
quenches thirst, but will give you more strength and endurance 
than any other drink. If you cannot boil it you can take a 
little oatmeal mixed with cold water and sugar, but this is not 
so good ; always boil it if you can. If at any time you have to 
work a very long day, as in harvest, and cannot stop for meals, 
increase the oatmeal to half pound or even three quarters 
pound, and the water to three quarts if you are likely to be very 
thirsty. If you cannot get oatmeal, wheat-flour will do, but not 
quite so well." Those who tried this recipe last year found 
that they could get through more work than when using beer, 
and were stronger and healthier at the end of the harvest. 



298 The Dominion Cook Book. 

1019. Chilblains. 

Faint them with iodine, or apply camphor ointment. 
1020. For Inflamed or Weak Eyes. 

Half fill a bottle with common rock salt ; add the best of 
French brandy till all but full. Shake it, let it settle, and bathe 
the outside of the eye with a soft linen cloth on going to bed 
and occasionally through the day. This will be found a good 
application for pains and bruises generally. 

1021. Earache. 

That bugbear of the nursery, earache, will soon yield to 
proper treatment. Make a poultice of hops and vinegar and 
bind it upon the aching member ; almost instant relief will 
follow. One drop of onion juice and two drops of sweet oil 
should be put into the ear immediately after the poultice is 
taken off, to prevent a recurrence of the pain. 

1022. Deficiency of Wax in the Ear. 

Deafness is sometimes the consequence of a morbidly dry 
state of the inner passages of the ear. In such cases, intro- 
duce a piece of cotton wool, dipped in an equal mixture of oil 
of turpentine and oil of sweet almonds, or in the liniment of 
carbonate of ammonia. 

1023. Accumulation of Wax in the Ear. 

To remedy this, which is a very frequent cause of deafness, 
introduce a small piece of cotton wool, upon which a little oil 
of sweet almonds has been dropped, into the ear, and let it 
remain there for a day or two. Then syringe the ear with a Uttle 
warm milk and water, or a solution of soap or with a solution 
of common salt and water, in the proportion of two drachms of 
the former to half an ounce of the latter. The solution of salt 
is the best solvent of accumulated wax in the ear. 

1024. To Remove Nervous Anxiety. 

Keep the bowels regular with mild purgatives, take plenty of 
exercise in the open air, adopt a light nutritious diet, and seek 
pleasant society. A teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, or of 
magnesia, or a few drops of laudanum taken the last thing at 
night, will generally have the effect of preventing watchfulness. 



The Doctor. 299 



1025. Hives. 
Tfle irritation caused by hives can be allayed by dipping the 
bare finger in sweet oil and gently rubbing the affected parts. 
Under this treatment the intense itching ceases, and the child 
soon falls into a peaceful sleep. 

1026. Poultices and Piasters. 

The convenient mustard leaves should be kept in every 
house. But in the case of children, a milder plaster than one 
of pure mustard may be required. For an infant it is never 
safe to use more than one quarter mustard, completing the 
plaster with three-quarters flour or linseed meal. For an older 
child one half mustard to one-half flour may be used. Should 
a strong plaster be needed use pure mustard. In each case mix 
with boiling water to the consistence of thick paste, spread the 
plaster on a thick cotton cloth, lay over the face of the plaster a 
piece of thin old linen to prevent it touching the skin. A roll 
of old linen handkerchiefs should always be kept on hand to be 
used for this purpose, and there should be a roll of cotton 
sheeting convenient to spread plasters and poultices on when 
needed. A small can of mustard and a can of flour should be 
kept, as well as a box of prepared mustard plasters for use at 
night and in emergencies when it is not always convenient to 
depend upon kitchen supplies. When a prepared mustard 
plaster is used it should be dipped in boiling water, and a layer 
of thin linen cambric should be laid over the face of it when it 
is put on. After applying, cover any plaster of this kind with 
thick flannel, laid over the back, to prevent the dampness from 
it penetrating the clothing. Where a mustard plaster is 
removed physicians usually order a layer of cotton wadding to 
replace it, in order to prevent the patient taking cold, and 
cotton wadding should always be kept at hand for this purposei 
with the materials for making the paste. 

1027. To Produce Perspiration. 

Twelve drachms of an<:imonial wine and two drachins of 
laudanum. Of this mixture eighteen drops may be taken in 
water every five or six hours. 

1028. Lotion to Remove Freckles. 

Mix two ounces of rectified spirits of wine, add two tea- 
spoonfuls of muriatic acid, with one pound and a half of dis- 
tilled water. 



300 The Dominion Cook Book. 

1029. Ointment for Chilblains 

Calomel and camphor, of each two drachms ; spermaceti 
ointment, eight drachms ; oil of turpentine, four drachms. Mix 
well together. Apply, by gentle friction, two or three times 
daily. 

1030. To Raise a Blister Speedily. 

A piece of lint dropped into vinegar of cantharides, and 
immediately after its application to the skin covered over with 
a piece of strapping to prevent evaporation. 

1031. Dyspepsia, Heartburn, and Acidity. 

Pure water, five ounces ; carbonate of ammonia, two 
drachms; syrup of orange peel, one ounce. Mix. For a six- 
ounce mixture. 

1032. Warmine Plaster. 

Burgundy pitch, seven parts, melt and add plaster of can- 
tharides, one part. Some add a little camphor. Used in chest 
complaints, local pains, etc. 

1033. Rules for the Preservation of Health. 

Adopt the plan of rising early, and never sit up late at night. 

Wash the whole body every morning with cold water, by 
means of a large sponge, and rub it dry with a rough towel, or 
scrub the whole body for ten or fifteen minutes with flesh- 
brushes. 

Drink waters generally, and avoid excess of spirits, wine, 
and fermented liquors. 

Sleep in a room which has free access to the open air, and 
is weil ventilated. 

Keep the head cool by washing it with cold water when 
necessary, and abate feverish and inflammatory symptoms 
when they arise by persevering stillness. 

Symptoms of plethora and indigestion may be corrected by 
eating and drinking less per diem for a short time. 

Never eat a hearty supper, especially of animal food. 

Exercise, regularly adopted, conduces to preserve the health, 
and should always be taken by those who value so inestimable 
a blessing. 



The Doctor. 301 



1034. Always Keep Warm. 

If you are getting a cold and feel the chills creeping steal- 
thily over you, beware, and get warm at any cost ! Heat your 
room to eighty degrees if necessary, drink a cup of hot tea or 
chocolate, and put on all the" wraps you please, even if you are 
laughed at for so doing. Better a small laugh at your expense 
than a severe cold, lasting for weeks, perhaps ending in a doctor's 
bill, certainly spoiling your comfort and your good looks as 
well. Aad when the chill is averted and normal warmth and 
health restored, you will then need the extra heat no more than 
the wagon needs a fifth wheel. But never sit and chill, for fear 
of "coddling yourself." It is almost suicidal. 




INDEX OF DOMINION COOK BOOK. 



BREAD AND CAKES— 
Pag-es 140-172. 

Biscuits, 149, 162, 170, 171, 
172 

Bread, Brown 145, 146 

" Corn 147 

" French 145 

" Home-made . 142, 143 

" Plain 144 

" Potato (Yeast) . 142 
" Rice and Wheat 

145. 147 

Rolls 148 149 

" Rusks 148 

Buns 151, 152 

Cakes, all kinds of, 152, 

153. 154, 156. 161, 162, 

163, 164, 165, 166, 167, 

168, 169, 170, 171, 172. 

Cakes, Icing for . . 155, 156 

' Fruit 157, 158 

" Rice 159, 160 

" Seed 158, 159 

" Muffins 150 

" Crumpets 150 

" Rolls. 148, 149, 154 

" Waffles 151 

" Ginger 162 

" Soda 147 

" Yeast 141, 144 

" White 143 

BUTTER— Pages 243, 
248. 

Butter, to dress . . 244, 245 
" to preserve .... 24; 

Buttermilk 244 

Cream, to manage 244 



CANNED FRUIT-Pages 
234-238. 

Canned Cherries 237 

" Fruit to bottle. 237 

' ' Gooseberries . . 237 

" Peaches.. 234, 235 

Pears.. 23s, 236 

Pineapples ...235 

" Plums 236 

" Strawberries ..236 
" Syrup 238 

CARVE BEEF, PORK, 
ETC.— Pages 65, 78. 

CARVE POULTRY, ETC. 
—Pages 40, 41, 52, 72. 

CATSUP — Pages 132- 
136. 

Caper 134 

Cherokee 134 

Chile Vinegar 134 

Garlic " 135 

Grape Catsup 136 

Green Gooseberry and 

Chutnee . . r- 134 

Herb Powders 135 

Himalaya 135 

Horse Radish Vinegar. 134 

Lemon Catsup 132 

Mint Vinegar 133 

Mustard Vinegar 133 

Mother's Chutnee .... 135 

Mushroom 132 

Nasturation for Capers. 134 

Parsley 135 

Tomato 133 

Useful Catsup 136 



304 



INDEX OF DOMINION COOK BOOK. 



CHEESE — Pages 244- 

248. 
Cream Cheese . 243,246, 247 
" Macaroni . 247, 248 
" Rennet to pre- 
pare 244 

DESSERTS— Pag:es213, 
215. 

Almond and Raisins 

213. 214 

Apples 213 

Apple Ginger 214 

Bananas 214 

French Plums 215 

Frosted Currants 213 

Figs 215 

Impromptu 213 

Mixed Fruits 214 

Nuts 215 

Oranges 213 

Strawberries 214, 215 

EGGS— Pages 123-131. 

Fried 126, 127 

Omelet 129, 130 

Poached 123, 124 

Stewed 125, 126 

Scrambled 127, 128 

To keep fresh for several 
weeks 130 

FISH— Pages 25-39. 

Cods and Shoulders to 

boil 26 

Cod's Roes 27 

Cod, Curry of 27 

Cod, Salt 27 

Cod Steaks 28 

Cod Fish Balls 28 

Cream Oysters, half shell 34 
Crimped Cod and Oyster 
Sauce 28 



Fish Croquets 38 

Fresh Salmon to boil . . 30 
Haddock with Tomatoes 38 

Halibut 38, 39 

Herrings, baked 34 

Lobster Cro(iuets.3o, 32, 32 

Mackerel, pickled 35 

" scalloped 35 

Mullet with Tomatoes . . 36 

Oyster Sausages 34 

« Boiled 33 

" Stewed 35 

" Patties 34 

Perch and Trout 35 

Pike, Haddock stuffing. 39 

Salmon, Salt, to Souse . . 28 

" •• Boil ... 28 

" " Pot.... 28 

" Dried 29 

" Italian Sauce . . 30 

Shad, Boiled «2 

" Baked 32 

Smelts, to Fry 37 

Sturgeon, Fresh 36 

Turbot, Fillet of. Front 

and Grayling to Fry . . 35 
Whiting, fried 35 

FLAV0RS-Page225. 

Bisque 225 

Chocolate 225 

Fruit Ice Cream 225 

Fruit Ices 225 

Lemon ..225 

Vanilla 225 

FORCEMEATS — Pages 

137-139. 

Balls 138, 139 

" for Cold Pie. 137, 138 
" common, for Veal 
or Ham 137 



INDEX OF DOMINION COOK BOOK. 



30o 



Balls for Fowls or Meat 

137, 138 

" for Fish Soups .. 

138, 139 

" forOysters or Boil- 
ed Turkey .... 139 
Sage and Onion Stuffingi39 

GRAVIES— Pag-e 79. 

All kinds of 79, 80, 81 

ICE CREAM —Pages 
224-225. 

Chocolate Ice Cream . . 224 

Coffee Ice Cream 224 

Recipes for making ... 225 

JELLIES — Pages 239- 
242. 

Apple Jelly 241 

Crab-apple 239 

Currant 240, 242 

Gooseberry 240, 241 

Mixed Fruit 241 

Orange 242 

Feacn 242 

Quince 241 

Raspberry Vinegar. . . . 242 

MEATS, How to Choose 
—Pages 51-78. 

A Polish Dish 51 

Beef.Braized and cooked. 58 

" BubbleandSqueak56 

" Boiled 56 

" Carving 52 

" Cold 56 

" Collops 56 

" Fillets 55 

" Heart, roast 57 

" Hunter's 59 

" Grenadins of 54 

" Olives 57 

« Omelet 58 



Beef, Ox Tongue, baked. 59 

" Pie 54 

" Roast, sirloin .. .-SS 

" Spiced 53 

" Steak Pudding ... S3 

" " Stewed 59 

" Stuffed S3 

" Sausages s^ 

" Tongue 59, 60 

Cold Meat Cookery .... 64 

Irish Stew 64 

Kidneys, Fried 64 

" Grilled 64 

Lamb Chops 61 

" Fore Quarter 65 

" Leg 65 

Mutton, Roast 61 

" Leg, boiled .. .61 

" Leg of 65 

" Lorn of 65 

" Boned 61 

" Cornettes 62 

" Haricot 63 

" La Italienne . . 62 

" Pie 64 

" Shoulder, boiled 
with oysters. 61 
" Sweetbread ... 63 
" Lamb " ...63 
" Toad in the 

Hole 63 

" to carve 65 

PASTRY AND PUD- 
DINGS— Pages 173- 
212. 

Cheese Cakes — 208, 209 
Fritters of all kinds 

203, 206, 207 

Pancakes 198, 199 

Pastries, Glazings, 200, 201, 

202, 203, 204. 
Pie, Chicken 194 



306 



INDEX OF DOMINION COOK BOOK. 



Pie, Cottage 192 

" Beefsteak 193 

" Beefsteak and Oys- 
ter 194,19s 

" Giblet 194 

" Lemon ...... 195, 196 

" Macaroni .' 193 

" Mutton • .-igS 

" Pigeon 192 

" Pork 192 

" All kinds, 196, 197, 
198, 199, 200. 
Pie and Pudding Crusts 

, 202-205 

Puddings, 174, 175, 176, 
177. 178. i79> ''So, 181, 
182. 
Puddings, Plum, 183, 184, 

185. 
.Puddings, all kinds, 186, 

187, 188, 189, 190, 191 

Puffs 207, 208 

Tarts.. .209, 210, 211, 212 

PICKLES-Pages 119- 
122. 

Beets ., 122 

Cucumbers 121 

Eggs 122 

Jumbo 120 

Lemons 121 

Mushrooms 120 

Onions iig, 120 

Picklilli ..121 

Red Cabbage 120 

Walnuts 120 

PORK— Pages 66-72. 

Pig's Fry 6- 

■" Petitoes 6. 

Pork Cheese 69 

" Cutlets 68 

' ' Ham, potted 70 



Pork Ham, to boil 69 

" Hashed 68 

" Lard, to make . . . . 70 

" Leg to roast 66 

" « to boil 66 

" to carve 71, 72 

" Loin and Neck, to 

roast 66 

Pork, Neck, rolled 66 

" Pickled 67 

" Pie... .66 

" Sausages 69 

" Shoulderand breast 66 

" Sucking Pig, roast. 68 

" " "tocarve7i 

" Tripe, fried. 70 

" " stewed 71 

" " to dress. 70, 7 1 

" Ham, to boil 69 

" " to Glaze 70 

" " " Carve ...72 

POULTRY AND GAME— 
Pages 40-50. 

Braised Fowl with Maca- 
roni 44 

Broiled Chicken, with 

Mushrooms - 45 

Chickens, cooking of.43, 45 
Chestnut Sauce for Tur- 
key 48 

Chicken Jellied 44 

Duck, Wild (Roast).. ..45 
Forcemeat for Turkey. . 48 

German Dish 47 

Gravy for Turkey 48 

Giblets to Stew 47 

Hashed Game 50 

" Venison 49 

Pigeons 47 

Puree of Game 45 

Quail Pie 45 

Quail, roasting with Ham40 



INDEX OF DOMINION COOK BOOK. 



Rabbit Pie 46 

Rabbit, Stewed 46 

Roast Goose 50 

To Truss Turkej? for 

Roasting 47 

Turkey, Roast 48 

" Pulled 49 

" Boiled 49 

To Truss a Goose 50 

To Carve Poultry . . 40, 41 
To Dress for Roasting 
or Boiling 41, 42 

PRESERVES— Pages 
226-233. 

Jams to make . 227, 228, 229 
" Marmalade .231, 232 
" Citron to preserve2 29 
Crab apple to preserve. 232 
Chestnuts " 233 

Melons " 229 

Oranges " 231 

Pumpkins " 230 

Peaches " 233 

Quinces " 230 

Tomatoes " 232 

Walnuts " 233 

SALx^DS— Pages 115- 
118. 

Salad Anchovy ... 115, 117 

" Beet Root 118 

" Celery 118 

" Egg 118 

" Game 117 

" Lettuce 115 

" Lobster 116 

" Oyster 118 

" Potato 116 

« Red Cabbage ...I r8 

'■ Sardine 117 



307 

SAUCES— Pages 82-89. 

Anchovy Sauce . . 85 

Bread " ..89 

Caper " ..89 

Cranberry " . . 87 

Cauliflower " . . 84 

Cheap Brown " . . 87 

Dutch " ..84 

Egg " ..83 

Governor's " ..83 

Grill " ..85 

Horse Radish " ..86 

Liver " ..82 
Mango Chutney " . . 83 

Mayonnaise " ..86 

Mint " ..86 

Mushroom " . . 84 

Onion Brown " ..87 

Oyster " ..88 

Peach " ..87 
Piquant (without eggs). . 85 

Poor Man's Sauce . . 86 

Roux Brown " . . 88 

" White " ..88 

Sweet " ..86 
Thickening for Gravies, 

etc 88 

Tomato Sauce . . 88 

White " ..82 

Worcester " . . 88 

SICK ROOM COOKERY 
Pages 249-265. 

Apple Water 263 

Arrow Root Jelly 256 

Baked Hominy 261 

Broths 251, 252 

" Chicken, Milk 

250-257 

Custard 261 

Drinks . . 259^ 262, 263, 264 
Eggs and Toast 259 



INDEX OF DOMINION COOK BOOK. 



Fowl, Stewed in Barley. 255 

Gravy Sippet 258 

Gruel 260-261 

Ground Rice, Milk. . . . 259 

Invalids' Cutlet 257 

Telly ...... .256, 257 

Lamb's Fry, French . . 255 

Mutton Cutlets . .' 255 

Mush 254 

Porridge 258 

Rabbit, Stewed 256 

Restoratives 258 

Sweetbread 256 

Teas 204 



SOUPS— Page 11. 



18 



Apple Soup . . 

Asparagus " i» 

Barley " 21 

Beef Gravy " 16 

Calf Head " 15 

Celery " 17 

Chicken " 16 

Crowdie or Scotch Soup. 14 

French Soup 14 

Greek " 14 

Giblet " 14 

Green Pea " 17 

Julienne " 19 

Lobster (Bisque) Soup. . 19 

Macaroni Soup 11 

Milk with Vermicelli 

Soup 12, 17 

Mock Turtle Soup 23 

MuUagatawny " .... 15 

Onion " 23 

Oxtail " .22,23 

Oyster a la Reine 16 

Parsley Soup 20 

Rice Flour Soup 17 

Roast Beef and Boiled 

Turkey 13 



Scotch Mutton Broth.. 13 

Soup a la Dauphin . . . . 18 

" made from Bones. 21 

Spanish Soup 19, 20 

Spring Vegetables 12 

Tapioca Soup 12 

Tomato " . . 18, 20, 24 

White " 18 

Veal or Lamb Soup — 13 

STOCKS— Pages 90-91. 

Common Stock 90 

Fish " 91 

Gravy " 90 

Veal " 90 

White " 91 

SWEET DISHES- Pages 
216-223. 

Blanc Mange .... 218, 219 

Charlotte Russe 217 

Creams .... 221, 222, 223 

Custards 219, 220, 221 

Devonshire Junket.. ..2 16 

Flumery 217, 218 

Gooseberry Fool 217 

Orange " 217 

Souffle Bread and Wal- 
nut 217 

Souffle Orange 216 

VEGETABLES— Pages 
92-114. 

Asparagus in, 112 

Artichokes 112, 113 

Beet Roots 99 

Beans Haricot 105, 106 

Cabbages 95,96,97 

Cauliflower 109, no 

Carrots 107 

Cucumbers . . 103, 104, 105 

Egg Plant 108 

En Ragout 96 



INDEX OF DOMINION SOCK BOOK. 



309 



Farci orStufredCabbage.96 

Green Corn 109 

Green Peas no, in 

Mushrooms loi, 102 

Onions 100, 101 

Parsnips lor, 102 

Potatoes 93. 94. 95 

Pumpkin 113, 114 

Salsify (Boiled) 108 

Spinach 93 

Squash 109 

Tomatoes 97i 98, 99 

Turnips 106, 107 

Vegetable Marrow 92 

" Stewed, 108 
" Fried . . 108 
" Boiled.. 109 



VEAL-Page 72. 

Veal braised, Loin of . . 77 

" Cake T\ 

•' Calf's "Head" (col- 
lared) 75, 76, 77 

" CalfsH9adhashed,76 

" " • stewed, 77 

" Carving 78 

" Cutlets 76 

" Fricandeau of . . . . 74 

" Haricot of 76 

" Marbled 73 

" Minced 77 

" Pie "Ham" 72 

" Pudding 73 

" Quenelles 74 

" Roast (Stuffed) 72 

" Rolled 75 

" Sausages 75 

" Scollop 74 

" Stewed 72 



INDEX OF MEDICAL DEPARTMENT 



A Medicine Box 956 

Accidents 977 

Ankle-Sprained .... 970 

Apoplexy 1000 

Bruises 960-974 

Bites of Snakes 963 

" " Dogs 964 

Bee Sting-To Re- 
move 962 

Blister-To Raise 

Speedily 1030 

Burns 555 

Bunions-Treatment 

of 1015 

Bilious or Sick Head- 
Ache lOIO 

Colds-How to Pre- 
vent 1005 

Colds-An Excellent 

Remedy 1004 

Cough 1006 

Cramp 1012 

Croup 1014 

Chilblains 1019 

" Ointment for 1029 
Cough- Whooping . . 995 
Drowning-How to 958 
Restore a Per- 
son Apparently 958 

Diarrhoea 995 

Diphtheria 996 

Dyspepsia 103 1 

Drinks-Oatmeal . . . 1018 

Ear-Ache 1021 

" Deficiency of 

^ Wax 1022 

" Accumulation 

of Wax 1023 

Eyes-Weak or In- 
flamed 1020 



Epilepsy looi 

Ear-Substances in . 9S2 
Eye-Substances, in . 978 

Fits 999 

Fractures 957 

Freckles-Lotion to 

Remove 1028 

Hemorrhage 9&1 

Heart-Burn 1031 

Hysteria 1002 

Head-Ache 1007 

" Sponged Away looS 

Hiccough roll 

Head- Ache-Sick ... 10 10 

Hives 1025 

Infants' Diseases . . . 992 

Measles 993 

Neuralgia 1013 

Nervous Anxiety-To 

Remove 1024 

Poultices 1026 

Plasters , . . . 1026 

Perspiration-To 

Produce 1027 

Plaster-Warming . . 1032 
Quinsy or Tonsilli- 
tis 1003 

Rules for Preserva- 
tion of Health. 1033 
Remedies-Simple . . 1017 
Scalds and Burns . . 959 
Sprains-Treatment 

of 965 

Scarlet Fever 994 

Sty 1016 

Throat-Substances 

in the 987 

Typhoid Fever 998 

Whooping Cough . . 995 
Wrist-Sprained 972 



INDEX OF MEDICAL DEPARTMENT 



A Medicine Box 956 

Accidents 977 

Ankle-Sprained 970 

Apoplexy 1000 

Bruises 960-974 

Bites of Snakes 963 

« " Dogs 964 

Bee Sting-To Re- 
move 962 

Blister-To Raise 

Speedily 1030 

Burns 555 

Bunions-Treatment 

of 1015 

Bilious or Sick Head- 
Ache loio 

Colds-How to Pre- 
vent 1005 

Colds-An Excellent 

Remedy 1004 

Cough 1006 

Cramp 1012 

Croup 1014 

Chilblains ....... 1019 

" Ointment for 1029 
Cough- Whooping . . 995 
Drowning-How to 958 
Restore a Per- 
son Apparently 958 

Diarrhoea 995 

Diphtheria 996 

Dyspepsia 103 1 

Drinks-Oatmeal . . . 1018 

Ear-Ache 1021 

" Deficiency of 

9 Wax 1022 

" Accumulation 

of Wax 1023 

Eyes-Weak or In- 
flamed . . 1020 



Epilepsy ...... looi 

Ear-Substances in . 982 
Eye-Substances in . 978 

Fits 999 

Fractures 957 

Freckles-Lotion to 

Remove 1028 

Hemorrhage 9&1 

Heart-Burn roji 

Hysteria 1002 

Head- Ache 1007 

" Sponged Away 1008 

Hiccough loii 

Head- Ache-Sick . . . loio 

Hives 1025 

Infants' Diseases . . . 992 

Measles 993 

Neuralgia 1013 

Nervous Anxiety-To 

Remove 1024 

Poultices 1026 

Plasters 1026 

Perspiration-To 

Produce 1027 

Plaster-Warming . .1032 
Quinsy or Tonsilli- 
tis 1003 

Rules for Preserva- 
tion of Health. 1033 
Remedies-Simple . . 1017 
Scalds and Burns . . 959 
Sprains-Treatment 

of 965 

Scarlet Fever 994 

Sty 1016 

Throat-Substances 

in the 987 

Typhoid Fever 998 

Whooping Cough . , 995 
Wrist-Sprained 972 



A Clean Cook 

— Clean linen and an amiable disposition 
prolongs your life and majces you happy. You 
are sure of both by using- ECLIPSE SOAP. 

A Dainty Frock 

Is one of the delights of childhood. You 
can only secure that spotless, sweet effect by 
the use of a pure soap like ECLIPSE, 

A Good Judge 

Always avoids highly resined or strongly 
alkalied soaps. They are sure to shrink your 
goods or eat away the fibre. With the use of 
ECLIPSE Soap you are safe from either 
danger. 

Delicate Laces. 

. Only experienced housekeepers know the 
destruction to fine- linen and delicate laces 
from the use of heavily alkalied soaps. Be- 
ware of them and use only ECLIPSE in your 
laundry. 

The Effect 

of inferior soap is to weary the laundress 
and destroy the clothes. For a satisfactory 
wash-day you cannot get a soap that com- 
pares with ECLIPSE. 






V 




■ V*i, 



•**. 




